“'404-10221-10002) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY BSSASSINATION. RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

MWArriGag, ou 7A:

Pte Ca hon Yo)

£00

INCLUSIVE DATES: dept Bek.
CUSTODIAL UNET/LCSATION : ALP ERG =
Sn PDS Po.

OPELETIONS, TP ANYs

ick! wesastdaut



STP eeeuprcenmetinn RTT

* OF Cnhs —


201-336474 ciesa Card #1 i

SYUREVIGH. 5 and ‘Shey, Sov Eat, told heriguetof the fp (Buro de leveotis
that Invitations tea ‘rec @ personal and that HCLDES' shi should |
|
H

Ie and Subjs DOIN? ror
OF ata, entlus .

00;-.
prob Sibj)

HAS persons in ‘above two apatehea are petty Adont etabte, Ho. oe tra
oa either “etor RICO or Victor Ie Galan,

30 Galan, writer for mm erie at Tet
ele wht
4



Son Pisbloy 1S ony ‘i
OF oF Euabloy. anti-US and BosCate newararer,

J BH=5287
i 11 Kor to.

U4 Pardinds, dirgen.of Politiva, of boing in the. pay

Slih Subj to accibed- 1
and trying to delay tha aprearance of Politivay (LIENVOY 3-2)

LL of the Max Cav

anotiier accusation. of trying 40 dalay Losudnce of Politica: by NARGIE who wanta.to
Bot Tas Of mubds Rosendo 2222 Lorenz cautioned that Te hao # public following t

| : bhould not: be diantesed,, (LIV Be2)
‘| WOES6OT- Sig wae ‘to -attond interview ef: LOPE: Hats
[24 Apr Ol “Interview woo planned of 19
j TO08-3/U72;253. Chron Be Pn EAS gt eee
~ "Subj'de. a mbr of the Cosmt’ tee for Solidarity w/the Cuban Revolution.



Tprco, Wietor (Galan)

1 $678:
31 May 68

|
|
i
4
i



: RICO, Victor (satan) - 201-3938474
6302 “Sans ” a

farxint Journadist: who hea hPress and Proper.
Persone 49 attended Foubd. gusoton held by 2h 2
prison sentences "pened. on David Alfars S: r
Flldsena FATA, hig fellow-prisoner, on 10 var
B-2, CONTROL) ceeiestereneacieg

"1

and ;

StbJ.ucons speakern, Licvigtep,. |
~ eeeetrs Hi

i. H

: trent Nex Yarxist who tg regent af Pritt y64
Bex Narciet, anti-tS, prorGubi, semtenonthly nagaa ty silscussed w/Tereau THEToe i
ProereayCult att nt Guban ket fine 36 af tly celebration: tn Matuna,| .
MARUTS! teesmmanded Uteeraet h *reons be:naned to Mex. de cat Lon= wid’
Fecharendad Subj. waony other Coimintst Witers for Pit
aeditiod, talidcent, persinns
Sulit aid oe Invited to attend b
anxtons ty o5 tis
Jes Hox titrist Journsise, nd he, L 1d Prop,
Set 62 of MM, pro-Civa, anti-U3 Com f; gag to write Soivetead tog On Fi:
CS-37'525, casino ius, Communist Pring Ninister of Cuba, Subj. wise aroposed ddea te Cuban
08h tox and wae accepted, Will siend 2 wea ‘tn Guta working on project, (LiccoR T=,
bed). .

Us June 62 Manuel eaRcuy Pard$nas, pe

iad never»
BT/ROZORK: < ¢

tonal

2 Cet Siity elt Noxics for jinbang on Cbs
Now $1115, x/Cuban courtesy vinas (rr

fa Adrliness He earriod Mex Pasapor’
32)
, :

priS #227 Subj has boon in Cuba About 21x weeks,
:21 Nov, 62 ‘ we
|



Pardinas, * genl of Politien
bi Mage, hasbeen: susponded fr mertersilp ono
BYTE With. Inck -of-" discipling and having, attac li
MAI 3952: vs -pagt:soveral months. On 22.¥ob znrique GCKZAILZ Fadrero, alr o. Fs

natl conmttee: and munbur of stall of Pulitics, atlared UN mu

eigen Pr racaziro
mage. _ tubes)

|

i

i ence " ‘bolong to staff of Polities must re
. _° 5, ww Had doubts. about roalgning fm rag



Rice, Teter (\

SYEL, Bvb.

4-198, 19 Aug 63. Victor’RICO adan, in the 22 august 63 issue
Arbab, Hex. C, . chargoa of Romulo Sanches Hireles, presiding
Filed’ Par

‘of Sterrre, ‘ahswored the
cer: os: the Chanber of
tives, Sanchoz, before: 4
uncersiné Nexicots institut tona,
Heo-answered. that ho and

discrintnated against.

Doputies, which: 49 Hoxico's. H
Rooting of the TRI, hal attacke

f W7666°  Evunine: 21 aus sit

i 27 hur 63 asrwared at offices’ of
| GS-3/5585 382° srorinant Lorttet Jou
2Pm Lt denan

it, or Is rerst. Adeolazy. ~
erter, inelediins 3

Lite:

2 dudiwne
8 tn rally in tave> cp
failed te be r

er isa cf loft
Mey advocat



"RICO, Vietor (Oatan)

HI 8262 Subj. pMox Marxtat 9
1695. Republic; fe: Nexteo

“201-3367, _

been 'recd ‘fx Dontntoaii ‘Securt ty Service ti
sFla., 3S Jan 64 on Bin

pAmoriean £1¢ 152.’



Pyilled at Law
req hotoa of

~ Sa 6
HR 8939. -
ragga 767C 4725 Subs de wnat

FLL of 27 dane
FPe2 (FOr 4,

grtun fr

AL lt to Wh. don told 2h in|
: 4

for.cottls

Oa. tints activities &

2.26. Bob Sb,



FBIS Now. 855 30-Aar 6h

alah’ to PASRSA LATINA Havana 1910 -ONT:

préconouls: sho ove no coneideration or oxplti :
elongad to than Sid they enjoyed boundless privileges



Tie Gnciestes quite
patient Bnd Covde.



(Arig@) TORBALA Burgos, Ou



"to Hotida’ dart
ton caused
a









&
q
oT

ister tBba nea



Dowicilig one TEL

Gree TT RANTERG

: eh oa : ee
ete ik PASAPORTE
haste :

©: onpenTe eringtise A:

eas

emerge) AE gies alienate pe br Sstdarin be
Rebsiones

initia 9 somn’in de

bey olpwes ehcnh eis.

evn en of eatremsene, : i

Obs envacion



Seek SULADS
nos ae

GENERAL De NRT] ;
eX 7 VIisad

# ROTM por un perkexto Ue GO f/-



Sener gar er gn a

VIQae a: 4 vig ad
TAO GRIGAL BE UU Sil aybas pattcses\acteoreier
oe Pewee . OF. Tae CY etre a ae oe

View MoM teats

CERSE

Baars y calor pace
“ae Rep.
Baloo, 0.7, 2040

22 inten rt jonah aAieru'ds aus few also iui.
ie hea prin. enlany ois oselad
cas pa ee Sam,

Neos, B 1 ESE

a

ER VLAD’

Tt GET p399



om TERN SOO waa sae veer ee





~

. “A sus Ordenes

’ _fluevo Sirviente 0

El seflor Victor Rico. Galan,
escritor de "Siempre", trata de
coniprar su libertad tiaclendo de
airviente cinico ‘al goblemo ¥ a
au revista “mnater’ et - magister.

Sel contusiontamo", Bueno que
ete “maArtir” trate. de salir y
que atiborre. a quien -lo Wa.de

* la bazofia trotakista;’ bueno. que:

Prerente.culpa del goblernd'y de
Ia clase dominante: inexicania,
Bueno. para gus riuy’meaquinos
Y pequefiitos “objctivos™, pu
sua desahogos ‘palabreros ni

tlenien, qué-ver con Ja ‘tucha res

Virtor tice Galde, coro etree
expreme potttros do on ealaAa,

fe érecnamocand sbtertencate

onto treidor.

Jefazo-Pagés”

Voluclonaria de los trubajadorea
mexicanas,

Deide.la crujla “N", Rico Ga-
¥in habla-mantentdo un silencio
Meticulosa, hasta que texo el
Momento de “hacer cualquter
servicio al énémigo” con: tat de
salir; hasta que liego el momen.
to de encontrar el imine de
volver a escribis en “Siempre
para labrurie su excareclacion,
como ya lo. hicieron otros antes
de dl; basta que Hlegd. el. nie
mento de olvidarue de las pille.
Haz del dinvetor de “Siempre

ficial:
Librea

bea Ja parce, y ahora que al go.
blerno conviene, le sabre lag
puertas de au revtsilta gubema.
Mental, bien celada por la cla.
se dominante para pregonar ia
confusién de una supuesta “te.
auienta” y defenier con toda el
alma @l gobterno, al presidente
wy tumo y a ta clase daminan.

quien, cuando al goblemo con. te. Cee ov ve, ee
Sins te dha Un rananiAen vets Raeta leer SSiempre” para
Se



UA: a -m Fes Deira
epoyar “sesudamente™” v deade. §\
tna oparente™Izqulerda”-al pro.
pio goblemno, Por’ eta labor le’. gcy
paienan a’ Lémbarco y i han “%

Paudo'y pagon a Pagés. >
Iésesperado. estd ‘el ‘goblernd

para. hacer créer en su “aper:'|

turn”, “en las Wbertad
crear “nuevos partidds"." Voci:
feran: y desesperan. los cecre
rica de Eatado, diputados, tena.
| dores y ol-proplo:Presidents, pa.
ra hacer creer a jos’ mexicana
en gu “democracta” burguesa &
ls. mexicana, pertecta:.y. buena,
segiin eilus mismos. Piden,. gt.
motean y suplican para que se
desncredite a les que estén ‘luz
chaido-por todas las vius (léase
otra vez: POR TODAS LAS
VIAS) en contra de la- situa.
rida’ que vive et pals, en detri.

6

mento’ de: miley y pintn bene:

PO :
‘Toda 1a’ propaganda: oficial v
&- publicitarias. “refomnas™
Henden ajo. mlamid: desncrodl,
tar @ Jos que eatin hichando co.
m™ F renden ‘a “has

‘muy ‘bien

Informado én: su.celda de.ja:des.
Sparicién de loa: luchadores. re.
vollictonariod Y los

: oy
re’ cn su actividad: du..
{ plex publics un” documento ‘de
Is Debray sobre la. lucha
| Ruerrillera .de- loa’: Tupancaros,
' squé ‘mejor, ‘Qtie“ahora Insultara
Por cori de uni “ente”-dé la
} Mais “ulenta’ mexicana yen
{la mitsma™-revista confusionista,
i Pare que. nadie-vaya a creerle,
La clase dominante agradece
bien tales. favores, scflores de
“Siempre, -y" los paga’ al con.
tado.” 5
‘Tras de todo, antes de todo,
sobre todo, ef ombligo de estos
harcisistas. Porque Ja “revista”
dijo, © porque*mando una ear.
“ta un pobre Galan, sdlo por

. " s {cio de uria ridicela minorla de.
40. servilismo: todos -los. go. burdcratas y prestanombres ‘In.
biernoa, mimado'a poses lZquler..” termediartos ‘del capital extran.
dizantes' atrituibirs a aljrinos. Bete tet

s
Mas ayer escribld.a su

gS” esta ‘carta-renun 2
lembre de. 1986." En ‘re

‘Sep!
. lacién’ con: ml carta aparecida

en el-ntimero 689 de. du revista,

debo: decirle que, , despusa.. de. |
leer el editoal det_miamo vit...

mere, ‘queda _retirado ‘louie.

usted ¢ refiere,-y ef particilar
mi propésito de seguir colabo. !

rando en ‘Siempre’ con uhn se.

‘Heeeién sotire tibros, Sin entrar |

A digcuti¢.un editorial'en el'que,
Ho sdlo. ge me

8 me cuelga_un nucvo delito al

Mamarme “motinero’, me Iimito

a aclarar-gue de nlngin modo
pucdo aitnitir tn Mmosna de que
se me publique ‘par elementalea
Fagones humans’. Huscart el
todo de contribulr desde mien.
clerro al sostefiimtento de mis
Aljos: pero, en uluna extrema,
prefiero que vivan dignamente

Y por. &

‘Se:lanza @ Ia-crandilocuencia re
uh, ler de ‘los futures ~~
irrvlucionniies yw
de Ia “xancte”y la "vida" de
fon” revolucionarioa, | atribuyén.
id el. pobre esert.

Bolo te ‘condena _cuando:!
foto'ha hecho unJuez, sino que =



gree

3
ridin
présenti
‘distas’

nalcs. Pr . ° Ahora,

. Prueben su ‘dicho 3 gueden alli

| como calumnladorea, ¥ ojald:que

Pronto Uberen amu alrviente
setio

Bien infortnado estat
guide!’ “Jefe “Pagés”. 10
sabe" lo nie lea ho patndo A to. era nef Fesponderte, _setiore:
dos“en, Bradtl: 10 J ‘califica, “como tanipdco pusde Racerio di. 1 mt

[7'de “itota histértco”a Debray, rectamente Mario R.\Menéndez ver’. su basurera,



PP NOOR,

5 DISSEM
SRNAL .
|

NELLY

7 V1 eTo®

2 OTHER.NAMES) ca OS
ALAS: Aamacva CoATE

3 3, DATE OF BIRTH: : wont
i 7 we @ Fea, (47 F-

4.. PLACE OF BIRTH: re i
_ Eu -FerRot , SPaiw

TYPE IN THIS,

“CITIZENSHIP: «gs i . path. | “SPACE

Danis al Banris, WATERMLT zm MEN AA: 7 aes

6. OCCUPATION: icaeiae . Tee
ae)

2. LOCATION: litre
el” Be pao

Baten
8. POLITICAL, AFFIL!

(Vath,
paste Col KO
journalist wd Mexico einco at least. 1957
steady weiter for the tuo leftist periodical:
£0 g rember’ of. the MIN-and ‘qubsequontly

Subject ‘has been -a voll known
Sinde at Lodet 1960 he hasbeen.
Siempre and-Politicn. «Subject was 8-feun ‘FIN: and ei

ended that group's Press: und. Propaganda: Céicittoe. -Me-has alumys been ‘elose ard
qyunathetie to the CASTAO rovolutaon.and; 4n 191, was reerted to be & menber
Srvtferiodiotas Noxteénos. Adizos do Cubay ‘and of tho, "Committee for Soliderity,

qth the Catan Revyolution™, 43 of June 1565,. Subject “ss reported.to.bo & nenber
= * of tho FEP and ev enomy of the FPS, 4

ea

9. SUBVERSIVE, ACTIVITIES:
Subject wis errésted in Aug, 63 for particdpating in a pro-political prisoner demon=
stration. . subject's proCasi@/Commnt ss w{rings af voll es bis contacts with knows
Sovjet, Satellite ond Cuban dntetiicones perecnna) in Moxtéo during: the. pa fow years.
leave no doubt as to his "gx propicenda® role, under journalistic cover, on behalf’
” of these interests, Subject visited Cuba durice ¥oy-Juno 63 ‘ostensibly ‘to. interview
H Castie after latter's yeturn from the Soviet Unions During thi contact with the Cuben
govornment, however, he was given tho Riseion of traveling through Control & Seuth
Series to contact loca Comunist/guorrilla ‘Yeadarg for.,tha purpose of persuading
then io begin caspaisns of violence nd térror to take the pressure off the FaLN in
: Yanezuola, A secondary mission wa3 to bring atout ‘greater unity anong the various
’ Comuniat sind terrorint rroups. «Subject undertook this aarignaent during Cet - Dec. 63,
vistted Caribtean sn¢ South Anorican countries, end contacted kay Communists in ach.
Uonjoct visited the Oopinicas “epublie in’ Jan G4, and oa a feault © contacts made
Gerg with tha AFCJ (eilitent, revolutionary, pro-CaSTHl group) was able to verve
Goring tho Teninican erisia of May 65 a6 0 relay point for material and instructions
fren Cuba to the AfGJ and alo os & re-orting Channel from Jian £, EIA, an AFCT
jonder, to the Cuban Intel lizence Jervice # 8 the ArCU'g CASTIC—Cuban leadership 10
On: Subject Ruaxaisd returned to Mexico trem a trip to Cuba on Un tocresty eee

Document Symbsi Necument Source Identity Date of
Date (Cevptonym) Infermat

plenyoy)



SECRET/NO FORFIGN DISSEM
RNAL USE ONLY

SOURCES OF WORKSHEET DATA (Continued)

Entry Document Symbol Documeht Suurce Identity Date of

No. (s) and No, Date (Cryptonym) _. Information Comments.
HNAIA - 3033 ge dir es: Pte
HOMA-26800 dug 45 «| Sta files Bios es
10945791 Fs Jul 62, | LIFTER Cuban Solidority Comm’ tp
ak LEP, dneny of PFS. J

Jun 65° | LIFTER.
sy |

16 Jen 57 a Jsov ‘contact

: 264 2 Svbug 65 Sta. files CBs ee
Henaoss 23.00t 63. [= - }Parena GP centastds *".”
FACYS1058. 25 Oct 63 ‘ ed
PAGY=1054, 25 Cot 63

T7644 RY Aug"

997-26223.. 28

IDYX=26286: 7.

MEXI-3689 23

Surnmary Instructions for SWL Form-Part Il: Workshieet

1. Enter-only data suitable’ for release in case of need, without jeopardizing CS sources,
methods or operations. Only substintiated, reliable information may be recorded:

_2, Use only commonly accepted and readily reeugnized abbreviativns. See Section Il,

para‘8, in the Instructions under Item 8 concerning the abbreviations of organizations

3. Sample standardized entrieu for several iteins (or guideline purposes follow:
(l) Jorge RAMIREZ Claure: (3) li January-1917; (4) Bogota, Colombia; (5) Bolivic
(6) Teacher; (7) Residing at 12 Avenid a, La Paz, Bélivia, as of Februar, |
1965. See’Section Il, para 8, of Instru detailed guidance. on completing ; :

items 1-10,

4, A precise record of source and documentatina data fer the information entries must -
be maintained. The researcher may. simply enter the required source data for each.
item, referencing the appropriate: item nurber under Entry Nos. column. Or, if he
prefers, he may place a footnote number, beginning with (i), encircled or 10
parentheses, after the pertinent entry or Litef information, Record the footnote
number under the Entry Nos, colurnn with pertinent source and documentation data,
Hence the aame footnote number may be used repeatedly after aay information
entries where source, document, etc. are the same, “Warn In typing the ttems

1 through 10 data from the SWL Worksheet onto the preprinted ozalid master, the

typiat must be cautioned not to include the footnote reference numbers. ¢
5. Upon completing the Workaheet, enter the date of completion in the upper right .

carner uf the form, «The Workahest inuet be fastened and retained inside the left '

cuvet af the 201 duseier.

SECRET?NG FORTIGN DISNEM aoe a3 ;
1 INTERNAL Vat ONLY. .



Geren SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM —
INTERNAL USE ONLY.

antered-unde
“under the Entry, Nos. column w th

g items. 11-20: miay-be
urce, Sheet must not be reptoaicedyy

4... The original of this completed forr:t
permanently retained inside the. lett cover of the 2or-dossier.

‘SOURCES OF DATA:

‘Entry, Document Symbol Document Source identity ~ Date of
No. (3) and No. Dare, {Ceyptonyro) Information —

a) Pee er

Utne PERSE
Were 627 6
Hmm 27766

“14.

jPacy =e ~%

PNA nid PETER

Riop =a? 26 H Pak GS Aeheme,
Han F277 Ve Sones 6a lm
Wie 260 Maw oe Nee

(Space fora: ional entries’ On other wide)

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
INTERNAL USE ONLY



SECRET.
INTERNAL USE ONLY \

SOURCES OF DATA: (Continued)

yinbel Document . Source. Identity,

Entry, Documeat 5:
D: (Cryptonym)

LIF GA-
Tes ape, 63
HMM A- 26802

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
INTERNAL USE ONLY



SECRET

TIGATIVE SUPE ELEMENT.
se

oDRUE .NAME:,

c Seog tie 2
iL ETHNIC ORIGIN PANTS

12. LANGUAGES: Spy nig sl ot RS CAM od :

13. PHYSICAL DESCrir TION:

(Date(e) of Information: Sop

. )

Apparen Age: —

“Sexi Als +e a

DUCATION:- tosh msc 6

LOYMENT (last known):
“Employer: Sisten,

17,

en 1 Fatvarde Rico Yala - Sut

19. TRAVEL: ©

Passport Number From To = Date, Purpose
S77 5— Ble wees PARR AA er FALE a is
precuaaee 261 2~ Aityree Lea acid st cs

Me gre

Faainied

PASARA

20. SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES -
Function/Position: Ct



INTERNAL USE

ONLY

SWL PART IV: OPERATIONAL DATA

TRUE NAME:__ Veron k Le isa CALA:

————

201 No: ni PB OUTS

SOURCES | wit DIRECT OR INDIRECT ACCESS To SUBJECT:

hi rane a a : aa

JENVOY

Aieainen aT

RESUME. OF. OPERATIONALLY: SENSITIVE Document References, Dates
DATA ON SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY: and Source: Cryptonyms: |:

AL | Prtees Pea)

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISS



~ tbe : = SEERE LANG FOREIGN DissiM
° INTERNAL USE ONLY

nn iy

Instructions for SW.

1. Chis ferris will be used for miant
or indiFeet
subject's pubversive achvities,

ceus tu subject and (or irecbedifg opera tionally sengitie data on

2 -Data incorporated inte this form are operationally »
Aid the, field otation responsible fur investigative [low =up of an indiy
directing questions and leads promptly. to other: Components with source

neiLve i

apecify component, officer. (by civptsiym). and; if po
r-than-a professional source is involved, specity location

nature of contact aswell aa identity. -amil

Mexies City, May.1964..") :

tive data on subve.
¢ ae source erypto ym, to facilitate rapid
jon: Where an entry under this
‘wecurity service, fi
nown agent’ with’ whorn cont,

left. '¢0' ‘er of the 201 dossier.

SO FOREIGN DISSEM
INTERNAL USE ONLY



SWL PART V:

TRUE NAME:

201 No. :

SECKET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM.
INTERNAL USE ONLY

NVESTIGATIVE ACTION RECORD

ACTION REQUESTED
(Summary)

10 6aF oy
Teer Fone

REFERENCE |

Document
Symbol. | RESULTS

and Number | Date (Summary)

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
INTERNAL USE ONLY

Symbol



SECRET/NOFOREIG
. INTERNAL USE ONLY

Instructions for SWL Form Part V: “lavestigative Action Record
1. Intended fur overall SWL program. management purposes, thin form permits
* the maintenance of an orderly re€ord ona cumulative basis of action requested
and results. achieved, concerning the SWL individual,

ion requested,
for “recordiig reierence ‘Action requested should be.

2, The form hag six-columns for entering summary information of'ac
of action,
d Buccine

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
INTERNAL USE ONLY


“.
SEGRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
:, JNTERNAL USE. ONLY
SWL PART Vi: PROGRESS LOG : F

ieee ‘TRUE NAME:

201 No. : =
a oo “REFERENCE ]. action .|: vALIDATED.
ai ‘Di “By :

7; Notebook Maater = | Pry

__ Typed erin | tee He
_ Photo. Master : |

Prepared

1g, Fingerprints:
Available:

10.
Mh
12,7 q
13. Periodic Review

Ao ;

a
B
aa
#5
#6
#7
#8
9
nO.
Dey
ome
a3
aa

14. Removed from SWL



SECRET/NO FORFIGN DISSEM
INTERNAL USE ONLY

Vi: Progress Log

Instructions. for SWL Form Part

L. Prepared for overall SWL prog rath management purposes, the use of this forn: will
reflect the SWL maintenance.operations and periodic reviews concerning.the
individual in question. etree

2. This form willbe fastened permanently inside the left cover af the 201 duwsier when”

the designation of an ‘individual (or inclusion:in the country-S. er
Entries will thereafter consist of handwritten references. dates
initials only, reflecting administrative a

3, The form embodies a number. ol seit <evideat items agaiiet-each of which.will b
recorded the, following in appropriate ¢olumi en cose an

gasigning-the: Ol ;
Ye available from |." oo

a. “Indicator Assigned” (item 3) - action taken via Form,
“eode."Wi'for the. SWL individual. ‘P¥eprinted Forme
the: Division. SWL-Officer for-this purpose: All SWL:indivs

‘20l.aad must bear the OI code

. b.. "Refetence’! - document.or cable réferelice if the action
dispatch or cabler. / S elias

Liditials of the. analyst of:officer Feaponsible for the. 3}

62 "Aétion'
; completed; : eneeesacin

together with the date of act

a, ‘Validated’ - initials of the responsible reviewing officer and date offeuch
review action. . Validation must always be recorded for items 6 and 7, which
entails the, approval of ihe final clean. copy text of a listing for incorporation
inthe SWL Country Notebook. » > c: 7

@. Items-10,.1i, and 12 are reserved for possible future use.

4. Under the item “Periodic Review", the date. when the next periodic ‘review of the
SWL isting will be made should appear immediately after the. It is récommended .
that the officer responsible for the; maintenance of the SWE for a specific country.
enter this date on the desk copy of the:.201 print-out at all:SWL personalities to use
ag a remindér. —It ié also recommended that the station copy of the SWL20l-print-
out list carry, for each name, a ¢ view" date at least one rhonth

. earlier than the HQs review daté, On. the basis ofthis reminder the station can
then undertake a final canvassing of
individual up to date and transmit the results to HQs just prior to. the periodic
review in HQs. :

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
NYPERNAL USE ONLY



nD dia) SECRET ai
Tae TUE TB
REQUEST FOR GREEN LIST
NAME CHECK No 170
29 August 1966

pare

Teesuestc) (ivPt SAME IN ROWAN LUT. .e3 =

a »

Vs .0_ Ga. —
+ ALIASES, VARIANT SPELLING, CIC KUNBERS, ETC,

Armando CONTE.

TO CHIEF, FL

ORIGINATING OFFICER

1am Christovher D, Costanso
ofrice orsicnatonWit/2 Mexico.
Room, BulLoING AMOS 332
tattasion 3655

1%. TYPE OF REQUEST (CHECK OnE]
DD Fiest rie susmitres:
 avortionat para

© atcurcn’For cuenta
14, ENTEREST IN SUBJECT (CHECK ONE)
 Espionace on ce activity

‘© operarionat curarance

> DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

ob1928, El Ferrel,Spain

je CUTAZENSHIE

FT ea ataraliae
Journalist, Hexico

"OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION
Prominent Marxist and radical writer

7 PAST ACTIVITIES. INCLUDING MILITARY SERVICE

See attachment

> OTHER STGNIFIGART OATA (POLINTES, Wr UIGlOn) ~ ADD CATA SWEETS WHEN NEEOEO
See attachment

tint Tact)
Cavoasian

3. BERCRTATTON Tevet
519 Groying
ERE WT TT OE AO RT -_
Ingebord DIENER de RICO Galan
TI OFER HERTRS GF TREDTATE FATTY Ba ARLGEIATTG
TALL PICHIER viuda do DIgNu , mother in law
Sateny, brother |-Ane-varte 160-88 enor eeR Ty 7

ber) RICO.
32, INFORMATION KeQUIeED COFFiaL SoucTFicatcr.
MOT FULLY SECT se quinemtats. |

‘Travel, biographio, education, subversive activitiea

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

INS TRUC TIONS: SENO BOTH SHEETS TO FI/0. SEE CSI 10-7

SOL ven reconees SECRET

f
}



e cr F170 HAS mC

7 “SUBJECT APPEARS,

IS.MO(ONGFH EMPOPTANT 1O"YOUR OEFIEE, TLS SHEET, WTA fe FOLLOAING CARCEDLAT ION
PUTED, SHOULD 6 dEMt 19 F/O. .

SERIN r0c8 FUE OF THESE SMF ETS FHCSUENTLY, AnD SENO.10. FLED iP SHrE Ey FOR SRASENy TRAD 46f, 0
Aes oF AICHE INT EEE SE MAUD ALCONTIAUING SAME CHICK, FULRSE 9 85 TUE UP EN/O'S
IA-CONTINUIAG SEASCATS FOR INFORMATICS THAT 1S 189,

Hy

oeyteuater

: i TAOS :
: : CANCEL THE STOP CARO FOR THIS BEQUEST
i SUCRE

paOneSunnuenae


S/iP
8
s/1F

8/sP

8/sP

UNCL

a/ur
S/ue

CONP

NO FOKEIGH DISGEN

Current Blograpiiic Duta on Victor RICO Galan as of
19 August 1966 Crom, OCK/BR/Nex

"Cs 3/489-625 12 Oct Gi B-2
Blected to Propaganda Commission, MLN Federal District Comaittes.

Cs 3/482-611 4 Aug 61 8-2 ‘
Member Committes for Oolidarity with Cuban Revolution,

CS 3/481-944 28 July 61 Be? 5
Invited to attend 26 July Celebration in Havana.

CS 3/489-630 12 Oct 61 Be2 :
Took part in a round-table diccussion held by MIN reganiing Lopez:

Matges' report to Congrcas on 1 Sept 61. Rico pointed out that Lopez
Matoes was, if not pro-US in his actions,then ‘anti-left; hia (Rico's)

statements ianocuous.

CS 3/496-988 26 Dee 61 i
Idsted as a staff member of Liberacton Nacional, an MLN publication.

FBIS §2 22 Apr 62
In "A Third. Position in JA?" in Stempre, Rico wrote: "it happeno,
then, that tho Latin American Comon Murket with its, tendency on the
exercise of effective cconomic sovervignty, implies many things, such
@s trade with the soctalict world--which next year will xeprocent 526
of the world production, constituting 4 3rd international pocition--
and the defense and exercise of coexistence between nations of different
Social regims,.,,Will there emerge now a jn position--Mexieo and
wazil--whiech, basing itself on tho TACM will matntain coexistence

with an independent policy?”

CS 3/508-797 26 Apr 62 B-2 ff

"Marxist Journalist who headn the MLW Press ani Propaganda Comittee,"

(Stil head May 31, 63--A-1557)
(the release from prison of

CS 3/520-503 23 Aug 62 B-2 /

Planned meeting to map out a campaign for David ALFARO Siguetros,

“prominent Mexican Communist artist” with Alcaro’s wife.

- 3 Ot 62-72
On a flight to Cuba on a Cuban plane with "other" Mexican Commnists

and 2 Soviet diplonatie couriers.

S-B-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


t
i

CONF.

6/ite

UNCL

a/ne

op. 6. .

* socialton, ‘in. internal, sattoro. “ana, fol ‘SAspendene: fro ‘erry:

“fn Central ‘and South America’ (Vercsula, Cocta Alea, Pana=s,

GeE-C-R-EoT.
GH DISSEA

cs 3/525 208% 17 Ot. 62° Be2
to: al biography ‘ot Castro." att exten: on

Spent 2 months there. *

A 1291. :9 Apr 63° “ee
In.20 Mar iseue.of Siempre: he "aitvocate’ the creation of 6.168 political

party which would: refitet, the) tdcology of Formr
"(dior ho'4aa founding netzer of tho pro-Comai.ts

. Supporter Of Castro. Witie’ in Cuba: (oct stow 62) ke’
lea to: Sleepre:: ey
enter. of

Left In; Mexico needs a’ party of Ly ee

28.3 10 duly. 63.
‘TO Cuba 2 “May=22 Juno 63} opent 8 days with Castro

6 Aug: 63
On 1 August attended tlie Pro-Canted Mixicdn-Cuban Tnntittr
accompanied by Luis Albani the Counselor for Cultural Affaire: et the

Cuban Briony. : a
; 2 Bo 6 Sep 63 cere
Rico, alos with Marcue Pardinao andCageion Ville wos cre of thé
tn w rally in favor of te".

pFincipal. organizers and ‘partie tpanté
political prisoners held, in Mexico City oa 15 Auguat: 63.
failed vo be held -becaunc of police Intervention...

and released sam day. "On evening of. 2 August they de
cewafully, to aco Diaz Ordaz, then Minister of Interior.

"es 3/560-130 2 Sop 63 Be2
"Rico planning trip to Guatemala" lass to interview Col. Zaria:
PERALTA Arurdia, Chief of Guatonalan Governuent, aloo viet: Guateralan

guerrillas,

A-lisl “2h. Oct 63:

. Stil on, “MLi National Committee.

~TDES 3/565-337 20 Nov 63 B22

Intervieved YOU Soca i tid-Octoter 62;. itsted us head of proyacanda

committee for MIN, TUS 3/563-671 “reported taut ico hat 5 6 anys
in Cuba with Castro end...was given en dxsignzent to visit countries
(usteraio

ind Brazil) when he was to persunda Leftist parties to begin immediate +
acts Of sabotage and violence to tna the preasura off Verensela.”

S-E-CeReR-T
NO FORKIGH DISGEN



afer

ye

: sie

‘cour

cS 3/566-571 5 Dec 63 Fe2
Rigo. tek an intervicv inate. Os tode 63 with Davia 7 Durcor( “0
the, Vauiginnd of National revolutionary

8.3. H
An, “Armando Conte, "a writer for Tiempos in Mexico” ‘sepaited to have

come to Panama and talked: to” Hugo Victor around 5 Nov'63.. He said he.
had: cotia"to ‘convince Victor of the ‘need to support..the Cuban’ Line: of"
arned ‘revolution.. Victor told;Conte thatthe Pup vould

what to. do’ bécause it had.its
(Field-coiient: travel records contain no information onthe ‘er

sof -any -person wath, the. hand “Armando. nte: during: the ee in “que! elon
be i . :

‘TCS: 3/565-940 ih Jan 64. :
Reporta:have identified Rico as
Was asaigned by Castro..to. visit Cer
to coufer with leadlig Coisiuatete in order to inftiate
anti-US violence and sabotage,” ‘He reportedly ‘arrived tn Canto Domingo
by air oa 8 Jan 64 from /Kitigeta, Jonica:to stay about O wetiey

‘tre3. 31510926. 23 Jan 64” Be? :
“While Lathe Dominican Republic he attempted to get -phi

Bontnicnn guerrilla leaders killed at Lay Manazlas on 2t Teo: 63 for
propaganda purposes. : weeny

C8 3/5721-822 3 Feb Gh BAZ
Lert Méxleo City for Havana vy airlon 28-Jan 6h (it migns be noted

that Castro returned from the USER dround that tine).

C3 311/01556265 cA Fed 65.° Gea
Possibly, in Chile, We wet, vith sembers of the MPD vhtle: in ‘the

Dominican Republic.

A-31..10 Fed 65 verida

Yialted Merida (had been’ there 20.08t 64) and "fA 16 quire ‘certain

that therd Will shortly appear. dempee’ (Mexican leftist weekly):
more articles on the henequen ‘eituation. “It can ve expected that Rico
Galan vill-attempt to aturibute all or a large portion of Yucaida's

troubles to the icnitemnitervast us."



, | CONF cs 323/07172-65 15 Mar 65. “reporting co for
1 “Rico went to Merida‘duritg the ranry,

Pergonal Lnvectigation of ‘th tuntion caused.by tin decreasé-in the.
f.benequen,."” Rico wrote. "Yucatan: Our leader is anges ja 2

10, 3 Mar’ 65, of S Elsepre. : Ee

from Vexico 1 May 65
nican Republic: "Rico, writing in the ultra-left Diario de:
ky and

{ico favored Bosch's return, originally wiching his goce lun!
‘Tater, after the.apparent failure of pro-Zoceh forces, . complained: ‘that

“the. reactionaries alvays’ win out-in Latin-American coups, being oi

ported: by. the US, or.cldo-the coupo- fail.” - Ei ieacine ‘ pate

CONF/NF CS: 311/O7174-65. 11 Jun: 65
‘Veteran ara’ trusted-PPS member, ‘prolii
mation, dzieribed Rico as “member of

Aor

reporter of reliable nfor=
Peoples. Blectoral : (EEP)
of x08 one of: +401

jvement’.()
who’ met An vareh: or, April 65 to. dray

Natdonal Cor.grese
Kepéal of. the law of Soctal Biosouition).”

S/F C3 -312/04619-66. 1 Apri1: 66 "aoures bélieved to hove. oi. vie:
: Gudteralén exile! community"
Planhing: to investiga j
Garbin, GuateraLin Co:
comminity in Vexico, who returned”
comme’ "pico could only enter Gute “ala “Diegaaiy. sie
elared: persona non yxnta by. tho. Guatecalan Govern:
‘country to inte irvlew. President Perdlta:
to talk’ with Mixeo! Antoato.¥:
© Upon his réturn td Mexico, Rico Galan wrote
rebels and Host unetetrering to the Peralta governs

CONT Tncondng: telegram 15996(7) "5 Apr &
Alleged’ tO ‘have been one of two. icale
UGOCH cecgen) planned td.icad nade uieting 6 April "to ebsrecarate
martyra of September attack" Qn no further mention). Serene :

nen was Jusinwe Wpez

s/NF CS GLI/FABS- 23 May 66 reportice believed reliasle
Could not atvend an MLN meeting vecalise of Lllneac.

UscL —- FPER 0112/66 23 May 6
Ta February becane, involved, in a verbal editorial battie
Of Grasza with Frone MUWIERI of the Yugoslav newazazer P:

No conclusion reeched.

CONF —-ART2} Froa Mexice 22 Jan 66
Rico..,bas teen one of the most proiffic ari arent
_Castra'e Cuba in Mexico, In an interview botwees an

apologists for
Exbasey officer

TO QB ACeR-B]T OT
: SH Dra



. ‘Adastionay information

aero rather “ths caste, ‘and that since Guevara digap=.:.
Pearance ho,,hiad grovm noticeably coolér toward Cuba." She. added that
although he -is'a Marxistvand is anti-American, Rico.té-alco very:
hostile to the Mexican: ist, Party (ren).

8/NF ‘mcs "314/10379-66 17 Aug:66. highly placed police. ofticsé, ‘reporting
Believed reliable
"Sufficient: legal evidente’ is available to prové that’ Ri¢o,” Raul:
Ugalde and others were.a:part ofa‘ conspiracy advodat
the. overthroy. of tl ament by” ‘violent mea

PPS National Executive: Dirs Oratey it is ‘alnoot impo: ible: ‘tor dels
‘that. ‘6 man Like" Rico ‘could. be “the t

incapable of going ‘anything that “evolved @ masa followings”

+ From Wi-1/Mexte :
"Parénts: Victor RICQ:Gon
Petnandg, GALAN Si

(spaatch nation:

Spanich files)

Wife: Ingabonl. DIENER de
ae (No information ‘availadle, Mexican or Séandinavian files.!

In German files, these is reference to. ad Inge Diener; avo
dated 14 May 2 “Guten, °1920; of average ‘intel=
ligences convi satical Communist; , not Liked; “dangerous; |,
ot proletarian b trained for administrative work; ~
after 1945 worked for Cadre Dopartrent of city aiministra-

tion of Guber; from 2 952 studied at Acadesy for Admint~
stration in'Fo na; afterwards obtained position in mine
istry; at first worked. in Catre Departnarit, was ressorisibie

for embassy and trade nm personne]; transferred to. -
present position bee! with Vese (fru);

ptwatdon vad inbie, Mexléan’ and



S-E-C-R-F-T

NO FOREIGN DISGEM Hi i He

SED Party School Year} modicere qualification; active in
‘politics; menber™ of. Central Party Directorate and SED.

Pen ‘ames? Arnande Gonté=-no. into Mexican, Cuban, .01 Guatemalan. Leo.
i Sebastian’ Canell--no tnfo Mexican file

“eg 3/539-138 1 -March' 1963 -Be2-.- 7 : epee!
‘igumber leftists (Terrazas, Guerrero ‘another one) suho voted.

B-E-C+R-E-P
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SBRSGEP"=SarSBESSSERBROSS'


Citizenship |
Official Dodusionta?

vather :

Mother “ee t
siblings. :

Spouse ‘ t
Othor Relatives. :

Arresta. :

Physical - Description: 3

Pregont Address =:

SECRET

Victor RICO Galan:

Victor RICO Galan, has uged pen ni tio: Fee
Armatido , CONTE: § and “pos 1 tian KANELL:

4:
joxican,. jd -¥§ March: 1949"
“Natu: ‘alization Certificate fee .
Passport #57115.
Passport #53641, tssue

“6 Nor
“Fornanda. GALAN Sueirad, also a residont- -of

. Bl -Ferrol,. Spain, where.she married.
nzalos. in. Boptembe r 1922; she and “her
children woro separated from’ her husband

: 0
during the Spanish Civil War and arrived in:

Moxico to join him in March 1940 ‘a8 "asi ladog

politicos".
Yernando RICO Galan; PDOB: EL Ferrol, ‘spatn,

9 April 1929. °
An&. Maria RICO Galan; PDOB: El Ferrol, Spain;

14 September 1930."
Ingobord. DIENER do RICO Galan; PDCB: Mexico,

Al May 1929.

Mothor-in-law: Yilli PICHIER viuda “Yo DIENER .

at whose home Subject and wife lived until
June 1965: Providoncia #930, Mexico, D. F.,
Tel: 23-07-92.

Yaa among leading agitators ‘arrested on

18 August 1963 by Moxican police for partici~
pating “in demonstrations in favor of political
“prisoners; waa released on sane day.

Box: Male, Color: White, Build:  Btocky,
Hoight:- sign (i.78m), UWair: Greying,
Houstache ag of Setpoubur 1963,

(Binco June 1265) krnestina Lanainzar 19-B,
Colonia dal Valla, Hexico, D. » Tel. 43-54-94

SECRET



‘SECRET:

13, Travel:

“In Cuba “July 1062 a : oe
Cuba 2 Oct 62, Joined vy wife Nov. ‘6a, 3 returned. Mex 0 Deo 62

Went to
: Went. to Cuba 25 May 63, returned. M oo 22 sun 63.

: Went to. Guatemala oa ‘Oct 63 10 a tov. dayas way, havo. oP & short

+) ¢4mo ‘4n- Salvador

Entered Honduras 11 Oct 63
ue Bitored:
Entered Costa Rica 17 Oct 63 and left 20 oct 6; ;
Entered Panana 20: Oct 63°and loft 22 Oct 63
Entered Venezuela 22. Oot 63 and loft 12 Nov 63 fee

: Entered Brazil 12 Nov-63; may. have traveled to cubs perhapé : . : i
elandoatinely and roontored Brazil : |
Entered Argontina 4 Doc 63 and left 12 Doc 63
Zatored Chilo 12 Dec 63 and left.16 Dec 63
Entered Peru.17 Dec 63 nd 16f¢ ‘pam’ day
Entered Bolivin 17 Duc 63 and lezt 20 Dec 63
. Entorod Peru. 20 Doc 63 and returned Mexico possibly on same day

| Left Moxico and arrived Janaica 8 Jan 64 ca route to Doilinican

' : Republic where ho arrived on tho same dayj be lezt on 13 Jaa 64-
aind returned Mexico yin Janaica on the same day. :

Went to Cuba. 28 Jan 64 and returnod Mexico 25 ¥ob 64

Possibly sevoral clandostinn tripa to Guatemala in middle and

lato 1964. :
Went to Cuba 29 Mar 65 with wife and returned Hexico 12 Apr 65

Wont to Cuba in early 66 and returned Moxico 11 Fob 66

: SECRET



SECRET

Summary
1. Victor RICO Galan is a prominont pro-Castro Harxist journale

ist assoctated with Politica a pro-Communist bi-wookly news magazine
‘and.s: re a. Mexico City loftist news wockly. In 1961-he wan -
reported to be a momber..of tho Periodistas Mexicanos Amigos do Cuba
and tho Committee for Solidarity with the Cuban Revolution, As of
June 1965 he was reported to be a mombor of the Fronte Electoral del
Pueblo (FEP). He was a founder of the Movimiento de Liboracion
Nacional (MLN) of which ho was the head of the hational press and

i in Propaganda committce as of 1962, RICO acted.as a Cuban agent in

: trips to Central and South America in late’ 1963 and carly 1964, His

.Pro-Castro communist writings ag well ag his contacts with known

Soviot and Bloc intelligence personnel in Moxico during the past few

years strongly suggest. propaganda role under Journalistic cover on

behalf of their interests,

2. Little is known of RICO'’s oarly life or education beyond
what is listed in his basic biographic data, Thoro ia a possibility
that be was active in communist affairs in Costa Rica and Bl Baivador

in the period 1946-1948 and in Colombia in 1949-1950, ;

Fy
3
4

3. RICO Galan's prominence in Mexican leftist circlos han beon
primarily intellectual. In an articlo in Siompro in March 1963 ho
advocated the foundation of a new political party reflecting the truo
ideology of Lazaro CARDSNAS. RICO Zelt that this would provide the i
7 Mexican loft with a political party truly responsive to tho radical i

tendoncias of the 1910 revolution, This was nocessary, in RICO's
view, because the MLN was an action organization rather than a
political party, whose momborship covered a political spectrum from
the Partido Revolucionario Institucionnl (PRI) to the Partido fi
ComunTata de Mexico (PCH), and was therefore diluted ineffectiveness. t
A now party would reprosont a “third position": aSocialism in internal ,
affsirs and independonce of any bloc in international affairs, With 7
auch & politicsl action ar, wrote RICO, the LN would dcovelop :
naturally into a broad national movement auch as the FRAP in Chile.

4. Victor RICO Galan is an ardont aupportar of Fidel CASTRO and i
“ 4s reported to bo a close friond of his. In order to gathor natorial
for a biography of CASTRO, RICO, later joinod hy his vite, visitod
Cuba in October 1962 for about two months. Re visited Cuba Again
during part of Hay and soat of Jurie 1963 when ho spent oight days with
CASTRO, five of thom at soa in CASTRO's boat, ostensibly to discuss
CASTRO's recent trip to the Boviot Union and hig talks witn XHRUSCHEYV.
Ou this’ vistt the Cuban Government gave RICG a mission to travel
through Contral and South Ancrica to contact locai comnunista and
guerrilla leaders and porsuade thea to begin imncdiately campaigns of
violunce and terror.in order to take the prassure off the FALN in
Venezuela,” RICO waa also charged to try to bring about greator
unity among tho various leftist groups,

SECRET



. ae

6. In tho Fall and Winter of 1963 and late 1964 undertook thig
mission, Evon though a known leftist he possibly had somo arrangement
with the Moxican’Govornuent ‘which may have gotten him spocial privi-
loges and support from Muxicah embansies in couatriea ‘whore ho visited.
In Guatemala RICO interviowed Gencral Enrique PERALTA Azurdia the
Chief of Govornmont and thon met Raul ALARCON Monsanto, military
training loador of the Partido Guatomalteco de Trabajo (PGT), who took.
him to meet and intorview Marco Antonio YON Sosa an anti regina
guerrilla loader; RICO possibly also met a (fnu) GOMEZ Ayau also a
guorrilla leader. In Nicaragua ho mot with Alvaca RAMIREZ Gonzalos,
BSocrotary Gonoral of tho Mobilizacion Ropublicana (MR) and a membor of
the Contral Comiitteo of the Nicaraguan Socialist Party (PSN). In
Costa Rica ho mot with ono of the MORA brothers,a guerrilla leader.

In Panama ho mot Hugo VICTOR, prosidont of the Partido del Pueblo (PDP),
and David TURNER, loader of the Vanguard of National Action (VAN), and
attompted to reconcilo- them in their dispute for leadership oZ the
revolution in Panama; ho also urgod-an immediate program of sabotage
and violonco, RICO wont on to Voenezuola to meet Argelia LAYA; he was
probably in contact with the MIR while there. He thon wont to Brazil
whore ho contacted Paulo SCHILLING,coordinator of the Popular Mobi-
lization Front, During thig time he may have gone to Cuba briefly and
returned directly to Brazil. After a fow days back in Moxico RICO
wont to the Dominican Ropublic where he attempted unsuccessfully to
obtain photographs of Dominican quorrillas killed tha month before,
probably tv uso them for propaganda purposes. As 4 result of his
contact with the Agrupacion Politicn Catorce Junio (APCJ) in the
Dominican Ropublic ho was able to serve during the Dominican Republic
crisis of May 1965 ag a relay point for material and instructions

from Cuba to the APCJ and alyo as a roporting channel from Juan B,
MEJIA and APCJ leadorg to tho Cubau Intelligence Service and the
APCJS's CASTRO Cuban leadersbip in Cuba, After his return to Mexico
City RICO visited Cuba again ostensibly to interview CASTRO on hig
most recent trip to the Soviet Union and probably to report on hig

mission,

6. RI€O Galan continued his intorost in the guerrilla struggle
and was reported to have entered Guatomala clandestinely in August
1964 and possibly soveral times before then as well, to viait YON
Sosa and his guerrillas, In’ March 1966, aftor having returned from
Cuba the month before, he planned to travel again to Guatemala
elandestinely in order to investigate the disappearance of Victor
Mantel GUTIERREZ, leader of tho PGT and of the Guatemalan oxile
community in Mexico, who had recently returned to Guitemala.

7. RICO'’s writings show an ardent support for the guerrillas
in Latin America and for thoir mothod in achieving the revolution,
In October 1964 the Guatemalan Armed Foracs captured a auabor of
tapo recordors sad tapes frou tha guerrillas including one by

SECRET





kolay. LEONOV, ‘Sovict Presa Attacho and KGB officer) with whom RICO:
isay,have arrangod a:mooting.4n May 1965 with Dr. Batlio CORDERO,.-> —
Dominican exile -in Moxico City.” .

avian: journalist in Mexico and. pos: ible;antellic
whom. RICO,: around thi iddle 1965, discussed. th.
itervontion.in the Dominican Ro)

officer in the.
had. contact, with RI
io, a prominent. Panamant:
(0° Moxico and .Cuba..aod.
10 “omig' @g:and three. loft. wi
ol: i ures Carlos Ivan ZUNIGA, Fabian BCU
ofthe.Panamanian Socialist ‘Party. (PSP), and Mano: SOLIB Pi
Panamanian Minister’ of Education: © ~ z i

‘an: intolligonce

1 ral. Committee of the Trotakyite:

Miroya dé VAN-RABEN, mombor. of the: Cont: _¢
‘th whoa RICO had socdal *

Partido Obrero:Revolucionario (POR),

coatact in, 1965.
‘Prof Juan MASCARO Neves, o Spanish national who, with bi wite-
Carmen GARCIA do MASCARO,. was activo 4n connection ‘with ffairs
of. the Cuban’ Consulate in Tampico before he was deported to:.
Yonozuola in May 1966 for violating, Mexican Inaigration Law; ho
wag no ‘key contact of Victor RICO Galan during 8 vinit the latter
- gade to. Tampico and Ciudad Monte in-April 1966. .

SECRET



Basic’ sographic D Data .

1. Education: Victor RICO. Galan may have studi
Toe . School. -of Philosop and Lottors iat ‘the:

7 ‘ ., Universidad Autonoma de Moxico “CUNAM) 65 One.

a pastaerstaasitnats : report statos that be may dave: Tie
her c+ philology. at “UNAM

. 2, Siblingég ; In tay 1966" his. ‘sister Ana Maria -RICO’
7 ¥ ‘. was. reported married to Guillermo MENDIZ, BAL; 2
i: sd a.collaborator with-Hexto; uy frotekyists. An
ae: August 1966 art
Balnsaie . Excolstor state that. Ana aria RICO Galan
; tite lised her ex-husband's name- and, called: her

a Carmen, MENDIZABAL, Lizalde. Another report of *
arcs peas “1966 flare: that Carmen 4 NDIZABAL Ss

been the contact between tha Partido Comunista
do: El Salvador (BCES) and the Partido Conunista

{ie : : de Mexico (BoM). ‘ :
3, Travel’ =r! A farewell party wag given tor RICO on’

H : |, 9 September" 1961 but: there 1s no record of
i 4 where ho travelled. ..



“Moxico City newspaper El Sol de IM

Summary

1, Victor RICO Galan joined the staff of Al Dia, an
anti-U. S. magazino, in January 1956 and was listed as ite
editor-in-chief in 1958. In February 1957 he was cditor=
in-chief of a new magazine La Gazeta do Mexico, published
by the Buro de Investigaciones Politicus (BIP) headed by a

Communist Horacio QUINONES. >

2. In 1956, according: to an August 1966 article in the
xico, Victor RICO Galan,
Fidol CASTRO, and Raul CASTRO, received instruction in
Guerrilla tactics from Alborto BAYO, a “Spanish Communist, at

Rancho San Miguel, Ayotzingo, Mexico, According to the
article, on various occasions in 1956 RICO visited the CASTRO

brothers at the ranch where they wore receiving -instruction,

3. In Saptember 1960 Victor RICO Galan was Chief of
Information of Pueblo, an anti-U. S. pro-Cuba newspaper and
was a member of the preparatory committee for the socond
International Congress of Journalists to be held in Austria
in October 1960. ° Tho following year he was reported to be a
loader of the intellectual faction of the Mexican committee
to give impulse to fight Zor peace and international cooper~
ation which was making proparations for tho Latin American
Poace Congress scheduled for MeXico City in March 1961.

4, In Novomber 1965 Victor RICO Galan was reported to
have been a militant mombcr of the Trotskyite Partido Obrere
Revolucionario (POR/T) middle guard headed by Juan POSADAS,



Contacts:

Victor RICO Galan is known to have boen in contact
.with the Soviets as carly as November 1956 when ho was
invited to attend a reception at the Soviot Embassy in

Mexico City. . :

Unanislaw RACZKA, employee of the Press ahd Propaganda
Section of the Polish Legation in Mexico City was in
contact with RICO in July 1959, :

Aleksandr BEXIER, Counseloy of the Polish Embassy in
Mexico City and known Intelligence Officer. RICO
arranged, for him to moet Carlo COCCIOLI, a homosexual
Italian pro-Communist writer for Siompre magazine,

Mariano GARCIA Perez, Cuban Consul in Merida, who while
in slexico City in July 1966 was in contact with ©
Victor RICO Galan.



s/ur

s/w

9/NF

Spr

CONF

SeF-C=R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISGEN

Current Blograyhic Data on Victor RICO Galan 6s of
19 August 1966 from OCR/BR/Mex

CS 3/489-625 12 Ort 61 Be2
Elected to Propaganda Comaission, MIN Federal District Comittee.

CS 3/482-611 & Aug 61° B-2
Member Comittee for Solidarity with Cuban Revolution,

CS 3/481-944 28 July 61 B-2
Invited to attend 26 July Celebration in Havana.

cS 3/489-630 12 Oct 61 B2

Took part in a round-tabie discussion held by MIN regarding Lopez
Matoés' report to Congress on 1 Sept 61. Rico pointed out that Lopez
Matoés was, if not pro-US in his actions, then anti-left; his (Rico's)

statements innocuous.

633/496-9883 26 Dec 61
Listed as a staff member of Liberacion Nacional, an MLN publication.

FBIS #2 22 Apr 62 :
In "A Third Position in LAt" in Siempre, Rico wrote: “it happens,

then, that the Latin Anerican Comon Market with its tendency on the
exersice of effective economic sovereignty, implics many things, such
as trade with the socialist world--which next year will represent 526
of the.vorli production, constituting a 3rd international position--
and the defense and exercise of coexistence between nations of different
Sociol vegimes,...Will there emorge now a 3rd position--Mexlco and
Brazil--wrich, basing itself on the LACM will maintain coexistence

with an independent policy?”

GS 3/503-797 26 Apr 62 B-2
“Marxist Journalist who heeds the MLN Press and Propaganda Committee.”

(stdi2 hend May 32, 63--A-1557)

the releace from prison of
CS 3/520-508 23 Aug 62 B-2
Planned nveting to map out a canpaiga for David ALFARO Sigueiros,
"prominent Mexican Conmunist artist” with Alfaro's wire.

- 3 Ot 62-8?
On a flight to Cuba on a cu
and 2 Soviet diplomatic couriers.

wan plane with “other” Mexican Communists

NO FOASIGN DISSEM



"see pe
comP

8/NF

5/1

UNcL

5/NP

G-E-C-R-E-T
UO FOREIGN DISGEH

Ca 3/525-064 17 Ort 62 Be -
"plans to write w political biography of Castro." Left Mexico on
2 Oct 62 with Yexican pacaport 51115 with Cuban courtesy visa.
Gpent 2 months there.

A 1291 9 Apr 63
In 20 Mar iscue of Sterpre he “advocated the creation of a new political

party vhich would reflect the ideology of Forzer President Lazaro
Cardenas.."(bio: he ic a founding merber of the pro-Commnist MLN and

an ordent cupyorter of Castro. While in Cuba (Cet-Nov 62) he contributed
weekly articles to Siempre in which he sustained the thesis that Cuba”
is now the center of the world's socialist revolutionary movement. The
Left in Mexico reeds’ “party of L. Cardenes” which....would stand for
socialicm in dnternal matters and for independence from ony bloc in

éxternal affairs.)

8 3/552-990 10 July 63
To Cuba 25 May-22 dune 63; spent 8 days with Castro

A-6 Merida 6 fz 63
On 1 August attended the Pro-Cactro Mexican-Cuban Institute in Merida

encompanted ty Lais Albaruthe Counselor for Cultural Affairs at the

Cuban Enbassy.

CB 4/558-32 t-2 6 Sep 63

Rico, along with ¥arcue Pardinas and Carrion Viiia was one of the

principal organizers end participants In a rally in favor of ti

political prisoners held lu Mexico City on 18 4 63. Phe rally
ALL arrested ant

dey. On evening of 21 August they demanded, unsuc~

failed to be held becuuse of police intervention
cessfully, to see Diaz Orda, then Minister of Interior,

and released sam

C3 3/560-130 25 Sep 63 B-2 -.
“Rico plenning trip to Guatemaia” plans to interview Col. Enrique
PERALTA Azurdis, Chief of Cuatomian Governrent, also visit Guateralan

guercillas,

A-M51L 2h Oct 63
Still on MLN Matiosal Comalttee.

TDCG 3/565-337 20 ov 63 B-2
Interviewed {6% Soca in wla-Ostober 63; itated
consittee for Yi. TS 3/563-671 “reported that Aico had spent 3 days
in Cubs with Castro and...vas given an aasignwet to visit cou
in Central ani South A: a (Venezula, Costa Rica, Panmsa, Guaterala
and Brazil) when he was to persuade Leftist parties to begin imaxiiate

acts of sabotage and violence to taxe the pressure off Venezuela,”

of propas

S-E-C-R-E-T
KO FOREIGN DISSEM



~ Shite

5/NF

“S/NP

8/Ne

CONF

___ 8one.t0 Panazs. and talked to luge Veto Vietor afound.5. Nov ee

Vand the nane is believed to be a ‘Besusonya uced by Rico,)

"pes 3/569-563 - 10-dain: 64

“Reports ‘have identiried

| Visited Merida (rat been there 28 0:

RENE.

“C3 3/566-S7L 5 Dev-63:.F+2
“Hico hakan interview in: late October 63 with. povta 9 qurner(ende of

lutionary

the, Vanguard ‘of National-Action /VAN/seredical proCubaa’ ret
group in Pansna}, \Tiolma‘ King (pro=Cuban' deputy to the Havignal’,
Ansembly) and-Hugo Victor (provident: of the ‘Péoples jarty, PAP PaP~

ci
Communist) discussing An. Grwed movetiont in Pananis.: Bu

B-2 cee
An Armando Conte, .”

‘armed revolition. Vict a
what. to do ‘because, {t-had" ito own Line on :tho Panamanian: revolut fon.

“(Field. coment: travel’ r¢éorda: contain no ‘information:6n the arrival ©.
of. any person with. tho nae: Armando Conte during the: period in question: °

fe :
“Maxtng: roparattona to. go-to, thé, Dominican Repwbite. in’ the: very Acar”
future... .ostenstoly. to-gather intornation for the Preparation Of tone

articles on the Dominican Hépublic."

8-2
(05 an agent of Fidel castro who in May 63

‘Tocs 3/569-949 1% Jan 64

antL-U3 violesce and’ ss fafeuntnt ile reportedly “arrived th,
by ate on 8 Jan G4 from Kingvich, Jasasea to atay about weeks

3 3/5704906 23.Jan 6h BB.
mintcan Republic he attempted to get photographs of
63 for

Dominican guerrilla loaders killed at Las Manoclas oa 21

propaganda purp

cs 3/S7R-822 3 -Fed Gly. BQ
Left Mexico City for Havana by fnir on 23 Jan.6b (it nent be noted

that Coatro returned frow-the USGR around that time).

G3 311/01556-65 4 Fed 65 C-2
5 He’ met with members of tho “vPD while in the

A-31 10 Fed & Merida

that. there vill 's n
mere articles en “the henequen situ It can be éxpec

Galan will attespt to attribute at. oro Jorge portion of Yucaidn's
troubles to the 'inperialtstic!



CONF

CONF /1F

s/xF

Sine

Wich

cour

6S 711/03173-65 15 Mar 65 “reporting so far a:curate”
“Hino went to Merida during the first few days of Fcbruary to mike o
personal investigation of the oituation caused by the decrease in the
price of henequen,," Rico wrote "Yucatan: Our leader ie Hunger" in

Issure #10, 3 Mar 65, of Stexpre.

A-1033 from Mexico 1 May 65 :
Ke Dominican Republict "Rico, writing in the ultra-left Diario de
Wéuieo favored Bosch's return, originally wiching him good luck, and
Tater, efter the apparent failure of pro-Bosch forces, complained that
"tha reactionaries always win out in Latin American coups, veing sup- -

ported by the US, or else the coups fail.”

CS 411/07174~65 11 Jun 65

Veteran und trusted PPS member, prolific roporter of reliable infor-
ration, described Rico aa "rember of the Peoples Electoral Front. (FEP)
arf [ational Liberation Movement (MIN) /who/ was ono of those lenders
Wo rét in March or April 65 to draw up a letter of convocation to the
Hattocal Congress fon the Liberty of the Political Prisoners and the
Repeal of the Law of Social Dissolution).”

CB 321/04619-66 1 April. 66 “source believed to have good access to the
Cunteralan exile community”

Planning to investigate the disappeurance of Victor Manucl GUTIFAREZ
Gacoin, Guatemalan Commnist Party (MT) leader of the Guatesalan exile
cozminity in Mexico, who returned to Guatemala in late February. Source
“Rico could only enter Guuterala iLlezatly oince ha was de~

nn non grata by the Guatemalan Governnent in 1963 after he
the country to interview President Peralta, Wadle there, he
ranagel to talk with-Maxco Antonio YON Sosa, guerrilla leader.

Ujen his retues to Mexico, Rico Galen wrote articles favorable to the
rebele and ront unflattering to the Feraltg governnent.”

ere 15986(7) 5 Apr 65
to have been one of two leniers (other was Jacinto Tapes

UGOCK secyen) planned to lend 1: ting, 6 April "to commemarate
rartyrs of September attack"

(tt no further mention).

CS 311/665-6623 May 66 reporting belioved reliable
Could rot attend an MIN meeting vecauw of t1lniso.
FPIR 0112/66 3 vay 66
b: ny involved in a verbal edltoriul battle on th
paper Politt

a
with Frane MARDSLIERI of the Yugoslav new
Ylo conelucion reached.

A-T27 Troma Mexico 22 Jen 66

has been one of the most prolific and anient apologists for
[oa in Mexico. Ia an imtervicw between an Bucausy officer



_ and the writer, Elena Garro do Faz, the latter dtates:..."tho Cuban
“\- Embassy hod covercly ‘éhided Rigo for writin; an article favorable to
the guerrilla:leuders who were killed.recently during thoir ausoult
on the, army barrocko: at Madera; Chihuahua... Rio haitbeen close to
“Che": Guevarra rathor.than.Castro, and that cince Guevarra's ‘diag
peararce he had grown noticeably coolér tovani Cuba.” Che added that
‘although he is-a Marxiot: and is anti-American, Rico 4s also very
hostile to the Mexican Communist Party (PCM). i. :

a/iie  ‘TOCs 314/10379-66 17 Aug 66. highly placed police official, reporting ©
=) “bellevéd reliable a : Creicer crue
“Suffictent legal evidenee is available. to prove. that’Aico, Raul * Z
Ugalde:.ani others were.o part’of a concpiracy advocating and teaching.”
the overthrow of the Maxican government by violent moons.”

-CONF/NF VOCS 314/10419-66 16 Aug 66“ presumed B-2 :
‘i 22413 August,: Rico arreste: with. 40 oticrd;. the PPS 1a pleased ~and will
do ‘nothing to help them. “According ‘to. Carlos Sanche? Cardenas of. the,

: PPS National .Exccutive Directorate, it is ainost inpoastbla. to believe
wes ; “that a min like, Rico ‘could ‘be the leade? of an arced ‘rebel movemént,
: He has always been considered a Marxlot Intellectual belonuing -to no

party who hus confined his battles to the pages of mynzinus like Poli-

vlea Slexpre, and £1 i Yembardd Toledano frankly. thought of him ae

pable of doing anything that involved a mse following:

i

Additional information
From WH-1/Mexteor :
Parents: Victor RICO Gonzalez
Fernando GALA Suéinos
(Spanish nationals--no info;
a Spanish L116
Wita: Incubord BL

tion avallable, Yextean and

de Rico i. 7 pany
(iio Intormatioa available, Mextcan or Scohdinavian files.
7 In German fLles, there 20 to an Inge Diener; info
# dated Ly Mu 1920; of everuze intel-
ligence; waist; rot Liked} dangerous;

of proletactan background). trained for winia
after 1945 worked for Cadre Depar of city edn
tion of Guben; from 1950-1952 studiest at Academy 1
stration in Forst-Zinna;. attervar vbtained. pocltion in win
Istry; at first worked. in Cadre be
for embassy and trade ‘micaion personnel;
present position because of di ante with Yose (fnu)5

. 7 now-reaponsible for currescy ratters; takes course during :

S-HeC-R-E-T
WO PORKIGN DISSEM .

oe



Ge-CoReE=T
NO FOREIGN DISGIM

SED Party School Year; mediocre qualifications; active in
politica; member of. Central Party! Directorate, and le

Pea bameoi Armando Conte-=no info Hexican; Ciba, or Guntezalan files...
Sem, vr -, Bopastian’ Caneli--no dnifo Mexican filea. :

* CB. 2/539-135 “a March 1963, Be2
| One.of & nunber-of leftists (Terrazas Guerrero onothor one): +

refastate Yarcus Pordions An the, 10H. aaa ere :

S+E-C-R-E-?

NO FOHEIGN: DISSEM



We
Ve ul othe Agineg 00! O3 se¥ zy

JUS Dagt. Opohatis Pom €-/35, Cof 24/766

9 HS, ARG, Con, Abin tit, Farm lon bal, aa
Dept op stale mes ee sae
 Coct. 4, 166, f- 349

2 ele Yo tle ii
demoboes eer bnnlemmmes Sten.
of Wer. 30,1966. A Sto

Zz

SAL Meme, Gr 34, Her, Rub Bile
oa Coline

sore a erin ot te ony


wm

os ECRET i

3
(anon Filed tay

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

TOOCUMTNT IDENTIFICATION,
att oF roc. THRE Ra erEaTION oF secany Cory

ex 95933 ln The Pe acd WAsrH pd), AV 6s

‘Tvatuat iow

WAVE FOB Hf oy059) 41 70

is Subjge ct can be found

UteR, a

tion y th

Job No. 75 752: Box Wo. gl Folder No. /5_
Ne Se BR, CERNE TER/ AR y LISA

the-subject

(SPECIFY COMPONENT DESK AND ADDRESS)
requires a 201 file opening. (This form must be
included in 1 the new 201 file when received.)

The Subject, Project Or
le No. In Which Tats
Fora ‘Is To Be Filed.

punseet oF aC) (hawt, Pivot, waddle)

wi 03364 2Y

“EE, rot co on HESS,

ine B67? SECRET



SECRET : caalat
fa :

Capen

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT ITENTIFICATION
Date of 00.

Fite cass

GF 8ttono tory

SOURCE INFORMATION

twatvariow

Gy
i MEXICO, tL FERROL ‘

CIT MEXICO
oce 2

Loe ake “ee or 3 HY. Arama conte, SONTES AGENT.”
CASTRO’
LEADERS “IN PANAMA ntey

173701

| Indicate The Subject, Project Or
20h File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

SECRET



ision 1g vROOEING gut
fou? QUAD O13
lane AID iMG

Chief, Western Hemisphere

“Acting Chief of Station, Moxico City p

exzorus

JMROD/Victor RICO Galan

Reference: .HMMA 31108, 17 January 1967

forwarded a memorandum written by.
eoting with Subject on 13 January
cover in his meeting with RICO.

Bae Te

1. “Referenced dispatch

Zeno B. LEEHOLD regarding his m
journahis

a
nee for students during whic
eat. struggloins
° going to establish a new
jalist Front. .0n 9 March 1972 a
the head ef the Popular Socialist
RICO Galan had renounced trotskism.:
he has been very quiet and the

on His whereabouts or activity
ticles he is writing for "Siempre"

Subject indicated. thal co
do-not “exist. Subject ir
political group known as the Soc
newspaper article reported that
Party of Mexico confirmed that
Since his release from prison
Station has received no reporting
other than a series of leftist ar
magazine. :

tribution:
S- C/eKD

CS COPY

een Fi i
| mpta=12185

——-—+

wo i ae
j + Rol-gSeAT4
rere



icon

fer 33€

CIT MEXICC

acc ?
< MEXICG ACTEO IN REPCRT ON actTiviTtes oF

VARIOUS PARXIST CROANIZAT IONS IN MEXICO FROM
SEPTEMBER 1969 TO JUNE biloe 7 #

DBC -88049
29 SUN 70
Pe.

2

FILE IN 20fa Si

FILE THIS FORM im FILE NO,

FOP" BB] ane coneenn covteane, SECRET nia


SECRET

Leven Pitted tay Es

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND, CROSS REFERENCE

OREN UNITE
SUOJICT OF COCLMIAT

650-969-019
na HMM = 12186
-— faite Se a 30 APR 76
iret ee ctoaaie CIT MEXICO 3

ace 2 : :

K MEXICO NAMEO IN REPERT ON REVITALIZATION oF :

MEXICAN AATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR THE ;

{> LIBERATIGN GF: POLITICAL PRISONERS /CMELEPOS H

H/COHMUNIST STIMULUS. os nas .

ait

@ 1005182077



io ta ia oe wince 24201

MEXICO CITY, SANTO NOMINCO - “INFO: WI/MIART ,
Paice BY | 4 LYMA, CARACAS

-~ DIVERSE: EMPARENT er

1, GUSTAVO ONAR SANCHEZ DIAZ (201-867485) LINKED TO
t

EMPARENT=1 ‘LMRU KOLATION IN ENPACENT=1 CONFISCATED PAPERS

(HAY G7): "MARIO MOLINA AND RERECA DE MOLIN

2089, LA NICTORI Ai LEM

SANCHEZ PORN 27 MAY 37, DR, ENTERED PERU 22 APR G2

ON DOWENICAN PP 57278 ISSUEN 16 OC G1, ATTENDED NATIONAL

N LING CONNEJO 2867/3.

ENGINEERING UNIV, LIMA, AND LIVED J.
ON 11 JAN G4 LEPC LIMA POR -CARACAS.. RETURNING LIMA 10 AUG 64,

continued. . 6 6.

pated

a AeLeAun, oFrcea

af

Se fel- “eal

REPRODUCTION BY C1 vc



ee ;

a tenten, 7
Geteiare my

cre pinccrorn OO? Hu OF ©

wT jane 4 4

PAGE 2
i
- ONE SCAG G4 SUDITAND WIFE p- MARTON. REBECA :
= : = f laecens : 2 h Md CAV ELE TRG te
— No rueriten: —

gORGRECA. 5
Yo

Haro
MOLINA, BORN 22 NOV LL, wari 180076

Ue
fy

GUN G
aa
y'. Fe

é
i DIAZ (201+770315) BORN 1 AUG 85, SALCEDO; MPD
EDITOR MPD PUBLICATION, “LIBERTAD". ON 23 FEB 65

+, LEPT DR FOR JA AICA

HERE JULIO TO STUDY reasons |
TACT VICTOR RICO

JULIO SANCHRG
: nl

FOR

TULTO AND WKFE, ALMA DOM

ENROUTE CHIL W.

REPOR
PLAY
GALAN (201-336474) FOR U

¢

peveacme orrices [

REPRODUCTION BY OFNER V


FA wiscctentanion

[a ees

aa 7 rece
A

Gah

WET GOL
ALVOS , SANTO. 1

HIN

BAY 69 (INCA #004); AND/OR JULTO SANCHEZ, PEDKO InNKiQues

URENA 8, WHO LISTED ADDRES LOOK OF RGF

YO NOSTOS POLEO,

INTEANALIONAL REP OF VENEZUELAN MTR QWCA 15329, 3 APR 6S), :

5. SANTO bo!

#GO; CAN YOU PROVIDE DELAILS ON

SLT ACADDKE:

"ROTALLON A

i
7? ! i
: 6. MIAME, LISA, CA EAPARE ANONG DOM
“POLLTICAL" PRISONERS CURRENTLY WEX‘CO.
{ 7. YNDEX: MOLINA CABEZAS, MOLINA MANTILLA, CABEZAS
DE MOLINA, DOMINGUEZ, HOS‘TOS.
8. PYLE: 200-5-38; 22-875 28-4=15; 201-782812 aNd
i 201'S NOTED. i
; END OF MESSAGK :
i } i! cosaouunine orriesas continued, 2. . ,

RELEASING OFFICER

cert] [ ae

REPRODUCTION CY OF1IEH THAT THE ISSUITIO 6 FICE IS PROMBITED, cory KO.



RLLCASING OFFICEH

JOUN C, MURRAY

C/VH/L

SNoe

D1
C/WH/T



Sg

7 13 January 1970

MEBURANDUE.FOR: ¥H/BA0 : . .
ATrBETION + Mr. Charles Anderson
SUBJECT 1 JMROD Courterineurgescy Target List

1, Per your request, the following is an updated version
of the torget listing forwarded to ‘you ou 23 Sopteaber 1967,

“Wer ber to CASTILE
Subject ts-a_pro-C.
boration“uoveasat wa:
Student moverent against the Yexica
Ap the fell of 1963, He was president of the iedlean cole

gatius.te OLA. ect was -arrested* in: gy 1060" phd aa ot
. August 1069 va: etal. in jail,

b, Rofeed ESTRADA Ville (201-263¢44)
“4 A #araist activiat who zavorsa Castro's violent
--woute to revolition, Subject attended the OL48 Conference ‘in
Havaus in August 1067 as.ong of uexico's reprozentatives. He
is tho forser Federal Leputy leader of the now defurct ONAR -
Wations) Oryaniaation of Revolutionary Acti. Ex
OFrasteg:.dn:Apral 1068.— cs sa

a:
Governzent

(Veter RICO Galen (201-92; peated
Shs SpauAGhsdorn sex lean: Com Joven srlenavetssieitte

Sto tel

1593,- ity 48 prosently_in

3. Those anes on tho. 1967 target list which do not
Gg90ar Above Ohéald be deleted,

Eruest J, Taierdazos
Acting Chiez, TH/1

Distribution:
Orig, & 1 ~ Addressee
1 = each 201 :
1 - Memo Chrono He
1 = WH/L/E, Labier SECRET

WH/1/%, Labler/db/3E04/4167/1973



Mea ODOT IE -

aa 6 ADMAU TAGE OF HOLIDAY. VISIT OF FAMILIES 485. PaseHDSs

b. EBTIRE AFFAIR REPORTEDLY PRE-ARRASGED VITH POLITICAL
PRISONERS GELIEVISG THEY COULD ENLIST SUPPORT OF OTHER PRISCSZRS.
HLOT ERRUPTED WITH OTHER PRISOBERS JOIWIEG AUTHORITIES 10 PUTTING

UBORTERNINSD YURBER OF POLITICAL PRISOVERS

VCwh DISTURBANCE.

no om RARON: DANZOS. PALOW THO. £291 4628)

VICTOR Rica Gab 3a | (eOUEDED) feBies 3a6474)

HAHUEL RARCUE PARDIBES (20i-Z99811)

RODOLFO SCHEVERRIA MASTIBEL

RAUL ALVAREZ GAQlY

FEDERICO EALRY ULLOA (291-8720987

PROF, ERNEST OLVERA SOTRES

RAFAEL JACOBS GARCIA (BADLY wOusDED?
A. WELL ADVISE FURTHER DEVELOPRESTS.

5. DEFER, . 1WDEX, FILE 36-28-83.
>LCRET SaCRRT



VI. 28°san 69 . ‘REKICO : : W &

‘PRO-CPA’ MARXISTS: SENTENCED POR SUBVERSION : - :

Mine others: were given less severe nentene

: a :
ree i Paris APP_in Bnglish 0006 Gut 25 Jan 69 ¢ - (POR OPPICIAL USE ONLY)
4
H
i

{llega possession:

ated 4m 1966 and charged with conspiracy
of ‘ares: we e pre pate bo make guerrit

lavana Presa carmia an Sranian 2105 ant, 25. an 69 ¢ (POR OFPICIAL USS ONLY)

(text). “Hexteo City-iewspapernan ant writer vietor(j (piolyaren was sentenced today
to.8 years-in prison and.a fine of 10,000 peso: district judge, also sentenced
¥ Gurersingo Gomez Vuevas, Teates Rojas Delgade, and Doctors:
Niguel Gruz and Rolf Meiners to similar teras. ‘They were a11 arrested in 1966 and
accused of sibversive activities, .ana Xaria Rieo Galan, sister of Victor, was
Sentenced to.5 yoars’and 6 months in Jail/and’ a fine of 4,000 pesos. Yesterday she

ed

Wexieon waters.
Mexican te:

ABQUEST--Noxico City--Nexican Pinance Minister “Antonio Ortiz ¥ena his disclosed
that Mexico is seeking a 500-miltion dellar loan from the World Donk to finance i
“forestry exploitation, hydraulic protects. federal highway buflding. ani rural cf as
electrification schemes. The rain rcojests vere for a rationalization of exploiting

timber resourees and inproving infrastructure to benefit tourisn, a paler source

of revenue. (Nexi¢o City RBUTERS ‘Snsiish REUTERS Buenos Aires 1756 GXT 24 Jan 69 P}
(rod ope Le IAL USE c8te): : . eeeresetiaa a.

RUASL DEVELOPMENT PUXDE2Hexteo city-Nexican industrialists are studying a nla co
cone: to the aid of the Kexican farsers dy contwibuting part of their profits to 2
rural developzont fund, Nations} Mansfacturing Industries Chander Prests azarie
ortiz Garza said here. The chaader, vith a neddership of soe 26,0 aanufacturers
throughout the country, hae proposed, that they contribute 1 vereent of their danual

= profits to the fund, Ortiz Garna told the chasber!s annua! general reeting cn

2) January. Details vould de worked out later, (Nexico City REUTERS Saghish RSVTEIS
Buenos Aires 176 GMT 24 Jan 69 PB) {PCA CPPICIAL USE ONLY)



fe >) Pentel = i
o SECRET *

(On Fb Lod tay

RICO GALAN, VicToR
201-3364.74

7
_ ISToF tose

STUDENT RIOTS AND PERSONS
a

R 6811050016 |

FIL@ IN 201--222474

SECRET ea

: Wy GO? wie ve


“parise 6 do funts oe a, Jeti A:

Rle ael- fete

Baie SoBe +

fie Ste UeTtald,2 smpade dea Feoste~
Sal, Betco Ue-P19,0 1D, SUNS valadaa Wt, Fag RavSh y hablas 3 lop Ste
tea de Abit, estén on en totes y Mates pars estragireaioz, (pied olviteren we

evtessla puss Les 6355 Listas trate ootes de es soltZage TANT agratoas, 60 sande

qatar ueceeuts gosarh ¢ Dooeyarliave Salatas 7 Gpeclas.

Mise G.0co HP, Carlen SOLAN, Solute a MD, PEPTTA geian lo taferaa qs TLS
facoones, sacha trekajé mucho, Manarle an 45 naw caistinave :

LS 10:28 by dol ake 4 de Jonta do 1588

Adve Gale W. Govlee SAGAR, calets a 3D. SUAREZ. bo qalere Incer tan fade
eS saan ¢ 183 Horta: 4 da jento do L808 5 /. BLYT4



SERRE , 29-4 «e AQU, RIUS -
Sie eiigro te cone «x nan SPs Hi. 1» cxstou os ak veeR

OUA HALOS. €S Uy ep Couto
x WW RASADD Oe 0 OE AANA wi
ws UeCores deb, SemPhel’. eo Oe NZD

i
ae MicioS OE QUE 5 CERRE PRNTD
- 0 PROCESO... 8. OR OF. ‘smu?

/' as,

caricaturistos |

eypemy ea nlte Ba
: TeHWWE “DE WAvo
Fewer enor (AMYSDS. seis, MA eoaireich) oe NOS "EOBERAA".,
TROSUSTAS, \2QNERDISTAS)

OBSTWO-SIN PELARSE- 1 eSPERAN ox d
A wSTIEA OS ATIENDA

, ERR QUE NARA Sin HINAIKA Kaeo
1A FARSA DE UN PRORESO, VIOLAUEO UA

Jase. 0 SEA, HAGEMD 10 AIIRD

TE W QE Se USA AL ROCESROD.?

raeesite 2] \Racbeidn

CAS BROAS rE: (Aefo went me £ CAL * OMA Se, USA
rangers a es bea toe (ESTE tS PATONANIOTD S 0 Hen PENSAR YO A UND CE VOLAR LA ONS:
*eoMNISTAS"...) MES ME FEKERIOS COND AU APE TUR R MEOR QE Se QUAD)
e esi = wn bOS ReneS 1 Regd ”
sy ™ + re &: reso icc fietist
4 ay aah cleey he axs fl Te. MID



=
e “BS, Soptenber 1967 7 y
a i
fo
. _ ATIGIGION Np. ndorson” paeite i
\ SUBJECT. : SNROD Counterinsurgency Target’ Liot a
‘a Mot of Vexican initvidualo vho fold within the, 4

d¢ numcrous trips to the Sovict Union,
reportedly a ‘graduate: of a Havana . . H 7

crated - 66 Jose Encarnacion | ‘penez-Gaytan =Howly elected Thint : Poe a
Secretary of the- POM Secretariat. He was arrested in 1959 for his part.
strike of: 1959 and vas rolénsed tn 963. In 1965 he

1

a
by CASTNO to visit Havana, He took 4 0 Quyear CP training
UiSySeR.-£iA1-1950 t021 95h;

| @s Esther CHAPA~Tijerina, Prominent active Mexican Coomunist
who works incessantly in behdl? of the Chineso Coumuntste.

if

H : : Bor~ 23b47S '

;

y y
ie 1
ie)



artinoz = Acting baad of the HL and head
‘ricontincnt Conference bela in bday

: fs lebsrto CASTELL
of tho cata selagation to the 3
in 190

Pafaol ECTPADA-Villa - Politically ‘eotranced from Vicente
Ltmhaovicielano andthe 7s - Wow head of the nowly named (August 1967). i
Hotional Crcaatzation of Tevolutionary Action, a 175 faction. In August urea
he das taplicatia’ with 9 croup of 1s would-be guerrillas. arrested: fares eat
ound. to- be | backed 2. the. Rod Gutnedes

Ze

: cs : . We de Koutaan ae
cnier, Wi/2 Bi a

SECRET

!
i
|
i
{
i:


In, reviewing Subject
rprisingly large suber of
. Pi

tho. Guafesalan ties H
side ot the picture bas

.workfag with ‘CARDSSAS op smuggling aras to C
coustrios, On 21 February aeet Subj

hip wife ae Pace: nger ,. drove

+. 0a 30 March 1967 Subject
eitting at an

twice vitbin e fou atnutes past CARDEN
outdoor cafe vith two friends (Sourc

+5 October ige7!
fara ;
2o1-192139 * é



office or use the telepbor
‘The next day "WIRANDA" {probably Micardo MIRANDA Masa)

joa Bubyect’a ottice,, y
ouse (sane, office) th pene ay at ‘1000 be

s Office ag an editor for

y @ctive apong Spanish
6 up meetings bo-

Goetentsteie @ fm Kexico and also frequently

tyoen Bubject and Juan REJANO Porras (P-1027, 201-109935),

Tho latter 1s one of the leadera of the Spanish Commuaist
hi

‘eno lari ipl
21\July 1967 it sas Feforted™
waa to be

roturaed to REJANO, ‘but.
porscaally at tho iatter
6, “In view of ALVAREZ Posada’s apparent acting as a cut-
out for Subject, as described above, the folioving item may
Aleo be ‘connected with Subject. OQn°29 Juse 1967 "Max" told
letter “there” from Guatena

house, epsouree: STIEAT)..

Although 1t ‘18 pure gue

y "Max" wight bo Maxjatltano °3.

329. a Guateaalan Communiet living in Mexico, |

mn -very quiet recently, but on 14 July 1065 ha‘
LLESCA:

‘in contact with Carloi SSCAS Aguirre (cf
unidentified boy, acd

ft 40 eatirely posaivle that ne conttaves to be active beniud
“the scopes 10 Guatenalan exile affaira,

BUR perrsaen

‘ge

rar ian nat

B



CONTINUATION'O? ..
isparcn

pieeeaiag

[2 mau-a3125 *-
Since Juso 1965 until as recently as Karch 1967
Subject bas been reporte
“Carlo. With.a non-Hexte
SCarlos” simply agri

1902, 55), Guatemalan Consuaiet. living ta
Athough ILLESCAS bas. b quiet eince 1964, when t
e autherities clamped dows on bia, ‘he 1@ knowa to bave _
n used by the Sovieta 1: jt aad probably still works
with. thea, 411 working at the
Quatona ily.

: (Source: LINLUCK). I6 1959
ALLESCAS was. Reported in contact with Nikolay Vasilyo:
(GB officer ho waa thea

a
(P-1901,-

‘
Sree
g
ic : pes of the con’
‘i ext in which this
& tioned caa no longer be reconstructed... .

._.. 8+ Bava (Eva) (P-11484), wife of Guatemalad Comiuniet
(Sergio de ln PENA, was reported to tave met Subject in May 1965,
‘On 29 May 1965 Subject invited Hava to dipner,
Suggestion of Enrique SEMO Calev, Kexican Coumuniat

=,Subject told Bava tbat he wae interested in her contacts with
ot bwestes i sto-put Ain: J

i? ORR:

mo interest to Suvject.)

'ICO“Ga lan’ (P=7354;..201.

Fillas in 1963, to prison

ince August 19€6 for subversive
= Aotivities arlegedly di

| agatost the Mexicdo govefnasat,+

ts
was In frequent coatact with Subject in 1965-68,. They usual

tos each other to discus@ undisclosed *

matters, and Subject apparentiy caifed RICO fron a pay pho:

‘atber than froabia office, (Source: LIFEAT) (Subject

appareatly provided RICG with propaganda for nevs articles,

ut they appear to have had other cozaon taterests ao well; one -
mich could well havo been RICO's guerrilla activities.) :

eimply arranged to 6

protien 3

a To eet — “= 0+ -for/peraard A. SDGEBROOK

Mexican Communist journalist ,<agent of 1 government
,  %o have been sent by tho Cubans to talk to Guatenalan guol :



eee ee ees _~ SECRET a

(eon Filted fay

HMNA=32688,
28 AUG: 67
2

t : PROPOSED CANDIDATES FOR Paihia COMAUNT ST:

WATCH List.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

(ory QG7 von reonsens sostvenes SECRET

CORTE. ute TRE RA ur Ni


elem eer

cm consraD wad
os neat eis -

__Chict of Station, Mexico City
roe
COSMROD Operational/Transa@ittal of Letter for Rico Galan

TR RTQURO ROR,

ACTION REQUIRED: None; FYI .
“REFERENCE: HMMW-15207, dated 30 Jaouary, 1967

dé Galan and. vr efru

ed to, have LIRICE-11 dell jer the. letter” ‘to Ga:

friend of ‘Rico's. LIRICE-11 tried for a week and one halt to
find ber at home with negative results. The Station. then in-
‘structed hid to leave the letter at her howe with a request that
it be passed to Rico, - Attached is a copy of the corns letter

LIRICE~11 left for Garro,

Attachsont:
_Jatt

Distribution;
43 ~ C/THD

ha Tt eee

w/att

wesc tl

HMMA-31546



Muy, seZora afay EEEEELEErE rece EE

En‘vista de que en

can rias ocasiones -
he tretsdo de eatrevistarne com usted personalmente sin poder

logra>lo, ahora por \sedso. do Esta esrta ruego a usted do la

ranera sds atesta hacerle liesas este sobre adjunto al sofor

ayaa das™dorque-usted-tiene.una.-bud

que. le pido y. la atencs

Su seguro servider.

ee ee ere



teansanges reece sir
on

vb SECRET

2

1DC5 INFORMATIUW RiPORT 44
af
eg

Py aniunn ie : —_ [TDCS jena“
: INFOMATION COMPAS = Hi if .:
; cz/ols, cz/icc, ¥1/oy FI/iNT 6, Iv, NM, Afite, “A 2, 122, Dopts, 3/0, FI.
if su/coa 8, sa é :

Rio Grcowy Qole

RTGS OFC)

ae

2 RRR Re
: Chute th Karke. : 7
: BR.

STATSIFCA TION

SECRET

fmt

ash Gunes mimo tas



‘ : as
. 7 : CENTRAL INTELLIOENCE AGENCY
ft a ‘Intelligence Information Cable N

pace 1 oF & paces
naar aR a wavy ane eecow nen. we AD Se 00" one oce one OCs cae CiAINUS

ACQ. 32 JANUARY 1967" FIELD _NO,

SOURCE

BY MOVEMENT (MEPY. RICO CA

~» > REBELETON,: CONSPIRACY; “AD ACCUMULATION. “OF-ANRMS ¢:.> UNDEM.4

HOT SLIGIRE FOR RAIL.)
RIC. GAEAN BSLIQVES THAT VIOUT REVOLUTION TaROYCHCH™

2

18 “oHDISPEsSaBLe, “SINCE THE PEACEFUL ROAD TO CHANGE IS tos

REVGLUTIONARY MOVENENTS ARE Ot THE RISE EVEKYWHERS 7

j TO RICO Galan. IN IGS OPINION, THESE MOVEMENTS APE Mak ,
: i TENDENCISS, AND ARB NOT aS FOSTD AS TEE INTERNATIONAL Cox

i LINE. KICO GALAN STATED THAT CASTHO RAS Tits DOM

i ay S20 KET / No PowrOH. oIssEn

i


is i
: 1 te : Tes gunfucnae-C1
oe \ i pace 2 OFb PAGES

“"REVOLUETONARY MOVEMENTS Int VZNEZUZLA, GUTOKLA, COLA, AID ALL OF Cantal 4
'PIERICA. THE SOVIETS HAVE DOMINANT INFLWENCE Iii CHILE, AMGEINA, ALD KEAICO<- :
aH vEXICO, HOWSVER, CASTHO AID VOECOd BEE EYE TO-EYE, ACCOROIIG TO HIG GAIAM, |

Au HAVE PARALLEL POLICIES; Bu? THz SovET UNION I8 THE PRIMARY POWEA FACSES

TRSE

concent TO MAKE OW THE ELTUSTION
“A. GUATEALA. Lt GUNTDUALA, UNLIKE VENEZUELA, THR COMUMIST PARTY

HAD NOT INTL THE ARMED STRUGGLE, THE TWO GROUPS INVOLiED
WY MAACO:

i PEOPLE ARZ PEASANTS, AND THE Mavonty oe babe EWRMEETES wird ~~
AND SUPPORT TH2 APAED ETRUIGLE. é a
B. VENEZUELA. BORE THE COMUNIST PARTY AND THE MOVEMENT CP THE ee

REVOLUDIONARY Lor? (ALA). LAUNCHED THE APMED STRUGGLE, BUT BOTH

HAVE NOW ABANDONZO IT, BOTH MOVEMENTS COMPINED THSIN EFFORTS

MOSTLY [0 THE CITIES AND ENGAGED MOSTLY LN TERRORIST ACTS. THESE



+ TACTICS DID NOT PROMOTE THE REVOLUTIONARY CAUSE AT ALL. ~
«S58 THB-ARMED STRUGGLE IS NOW DIRECTED BY TH ARMED FORSES OF”

How SUCCEED. (HEADQUARTERS Con@inttT:~- RICO’ GALAW 18" BCILOTNG
TAADEL OF THE DISSIDENT YALM, IN

A= THE-LINE* OF “DOUGEAS...BRAVO,.
ACCUSING THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF VEHEZUHLA. (rev) AND THE MIR”

_ OF ABANDONING THE “ARMED STRUGGLE." BOTH THE TCV AND THE MIR
HAVE, TAD, AND CONTTIUE To HAVE, FURAL GULTTLLA FORCES AS WELL,

-,AS_URBAI TERRORISE UNITS. ALTHOUGH:A SOPP-LIe FACTION OF THE

: 0 PUNO

CONPINUED WIS PULICY, AFTHH PIUSLLOTING THis SOME<LINEHS . ) 5

A POLICE STATE,

isha

POFULAR MOVEMENTS 7 IN-MEXTCO

ERS LiKE CASTHO AROUND,

LATIN AMERICH WERE ON THE RISE, SINCE THERE WERE NO LEA
RICO GALAN BELIEVED THAT THR LEADERS OF THESE FOYULAR NOVEMENTS 4OULD COME FROM THE
WRITERS, THE INTELLECTUALS, AND TH LAWYERS, ;
Sy: “RBOARDING FIDEL CASTRO, RICO CALAN GAYS THAT No ONE KikWS WETHER cASTRO IS
P_REVOLUSTONARY

A COMMUNIST OR WHAT KIND OF COMMUNIST HE MIGHT BE. Ih IS A ¢
LEADER AND A GREAT TACTICIAN, BUT HE CANNOT PLAY THE ROLE OF LIQeATOA OF LATIW

WILT UNLON CONTROLS

” AMERICA FOR Hi IS TOO DEPENDENT ON THE SOVIET UNIO! AND 177

HIM TIGHTLY. REGARDING CUBA-SOVIET CONFLICTS, ICO GALAN SAID THEY WERE MORE APFAREI.

« SSCRET/ NO FORSIGN DISSEM
segangovsron) "(dua contrety



iN

Tocs- 22 /02000-67

PAGE “OF 4 paGes

©’ BECRET /'NO FOREIGN DISSEM : :
Piakipceteray gue contol :

FERVENT REVOLUTEONARY.... He rf i

Le FIELD DIsseM: NONE.

8S 2 CREP / NO POREIGN DISSEM

Hisar ace e A cities et

7 . 5) i



eT re

’ strtage rom
. Bi in| y tora conitt,
ono A DESANTI/pap
wan, mete | SECRET :
on 7208 : I
parts 30 JANUARY 67. . te

case sreaeranar onisiwination

voc - oO orsteor i wren 10 OE wa. O mine

H) wo mcit J mswernisns, 201-336474

a “LETTER..I8. DATED an. CONTINENTAL, PANAMA ” ee

PAPER, PLEASE ARRANGE FOR DELIVERY TO RICO ANY DAY AFTER 1 FEBRUARY,
DOSCHE??: : : <5"
REQUEST ANDREW F, OGOMSAGN SIGN LETTER IMITATING SIGNATURE.IN 70. <5 a

., 19 JANUARY, LETTER | 70 sib Avatenee AT STATION,

3. PLEASE ADVISE DATE LETTER DELIVERE! Z

END OF MESSAGE.

~ ‘WH/SAO Comment *Station concurred with proposed folldy-up letter to Rico
Sonar Galan, Ha

WH//S

while » BROE Lag oe Gules
c/¥HD

WH/SAO

coororara oFncers,

- suse omeea SECRET fia]

{ Auruanticar@n®
i : REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITED, corr
if : : : 7 ,

vorncte



oo one 8

+807 TO F0e HO
ac #100) wer, 10 eeance Hew/e

ev Dito.

ADVANTAGEOUS Snare LITEUP can

DELIVERY».
2s BELIEVE PORTION OF LETTER SHOULD EXPLAIN WHY IT é
WAS HOT SENT REGULAR NAIL SERVICE. ALSO, SHOULD BE DATED ‘

i
4
f
zg
5

DE-WITH-LEEHOLD: VISIT tEX1CO.WITK, EXPLANATION, .

WHY IT WAS NOT DELIVENED SOOl sER ON CHRAY CURRENT DATE BuT.

OTEL OR OTHER APPR OPRIAT TE “STATIONERY FROM OTHER COURTRY

on

H EAPLANATLON, IT HARD CANRIED TO NEXICO EY PRE
ECRET: :



; nell init

f noo ay saiber tom
Au atibeotert/pap bithadbeabesee

twin WH/SAO Py
fan, 7208 eee ——

Donner () enn Ly oe
0. 201-9366741-—

O von

“Lrcut FOLLOWING FACTS,

DESIRE TAKE ADVANTAGE LEEHOLD. INTERVIEW WIT!

As INTERVIEW WAS ENDED ABRUPTLY AND BELIEVE RICO

EXPECTED FOLLOW UP SESSION,
GET IN 70 ES RICO. FOR “SECOND “SESS 10:

TE B.

BOOK USEFUL #

* CORRISPONDENZA SOCIALISTA, A

2.
(DE MARCHI) ....

EXPRESS HOPE TO SEE iM AGAIN ON WAY BACK FROM LA TouR,
ALSO PROPOSE TO RICO THAT MEANWHILE HE WRITE FOR A FEE A REVIEW OF

3.

cootomarena osneres

’ | SECRET

murasoco onnicin

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIDITED,

HOWEVER. LEEHOLD WAS UNABLE To

AT END OF INTERVIEW LEEHOLD GAVE RICO COPY OF LINLUCK
BUT DFAD WHICH RICO WAS PLEASED TO RECEIVE.
ALSO BROACHED “MATTER OF RICO-WRITING ARTICLE= FOR_UIS. PERIODICAL

‘BOOK USEFUL BUT DEAD FOR” CORRISPONDENZA SOCIALISTA® .
PURPOSE IS TO GET RICO TO EXPRESS VIEVS IN WRITING ON CUBAN

LEEHOLD

PROPOSE THAT A LETTER BE DELIVERED TO RICO FROM LEEHOLD
LETTER WOULD EXPLAIN INABILITY TO SEE RICO AGAIN AND °

LETTER WOULD

(CONTINUED)

aumennicarng
‘orncie

corr 8,



D mee nro, tet to aor] ie ne

O wee CO ran mos rn 8,

FUTURE ee
Ae WOULD PREPARE LETTER IN 1TALIAN AT HQS ‘ayo FORWARD. TO STATION,

MBANS. OF DELIVERY, BUT PRESUMABLY. -

LEAVE TO STATION “TO DETERMINE BEST
WOULD: BE. THRU, LITEMPO/S

Y Jufl (le.

is W. ANDERSON

piesa

ceqeoaaras oes
[| nS ements

[sx RORET Zo
on

REPRODUCTION DY xR THAN THE USUING OFFICE IS PRC TKO

..
a
5
a
’

i
i
ian



‘(DISPATCH | ererrs |
: ""_chiot of Station, Hexico City
~~ i: te

. i
7 \ Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

amipoporatronn3/sunon fe 7
1 Po OTransoittal of Lotter for Rico Galan 7 : passsansssens fat

Ret Gia ROTI
ACTION REQUIREDs Arrange for Delivery of Lettor.
REFERENCE: - Mexico City 0113, 26 Jan 67 -

i

|

| Tr asia tted herewith is the letter meationod ia reference.
i

Furthor Aagtructions. wih be sent by cable.

a MPPs AO ay Spee eas cte  poee |
Stearate net fe a tP@OhMOMEL.
: pelea om
} 1. Letter, (orig .&copy & ;
: t ‘analntioa), b/w

~~ Distribution:

I-33 = COS/Hoxico City, w/att., b/w

‘canes exhennnct 1 | DIEPATON CPUECE AND NOMINEE 7 care

18207 ce : Hise leet

201-338474

HGR ATING

or 3. CU wr
WH/SA0 Loats AY Santi/pap 1.7208

Internal Dist,
Jan ESEURRIEEA

X’- RID, watt.
1 = WILL, w/o/att.
1 ~ YH/REG, w/o/att, | BH/SAO
le WH/SAO, wo/att,

/ WH/1/8.

/

pee [as
ULF we Fe ah | ST eae
jr cw! “> WILLIAM-V. BROR

ee


affido ad un anioo ao
porvenire.

Bono tuttora in viaggio 6 faro‘ tutto 12 posathle rivederia proatos
Hel frattompo gradired noltigoino, Lei consensiente, avoro Waa Sua
eritdea cul libro obe lo lasclat, UTUES DESPUES MUSKTUS, Por, aA
oventunle pubbiicasions sul periodico reneno Corrianx
Rosta inteso ote Le rinettereno Lapeer ltoscrario s+ csubLitoe

Con 1 mtot piu

i



te e : é ‘ : “31 January 1967

Dear Sir: i :

see I am the Italian Journalist Luigi De March’ who had the

Reset honor: of a brief interview with you on the 13th of January.

I have tried, up ‘RoW without success, to got together with
‘ 8.

TOS,
periodical, CORRISPONDERZA SOCIALISTA, Rest assured that
4 you. would be: Paid prouptky the usual fee.

to “ed th-best regard go a» ~

laigt De Barchi



PREPRODUCTION itonin ITED.

-_= ss
ane REF: DIRECTOR 45248 ~
2 UR LETTER TO RICO FROM LEzAOLD wouLD | BE
| > apvautaceous OPERAT i
DELIVERY. # :
2. BELIEVE PORTION, OF LETTER SHOULD EXPLAIN WHY IT
WAS NOT SENT REGULAR MAIL SERVICE. ALS0, SHOULD BE DATED
ba “To COINCIDE VITHLEE HOLD. VISIT NEAICO, 1TH EXPLANATION
- 4 Wiy IT ¥AS NOT DELIVERED SOONER of CA i at oat a

GH KOTEL ce OTHER APPROPRIATE STATIOMERY FROW-OTHER COUNTRY

poco ETH EXPLANATL
cRET

8T



) inne” brivor OF etw o

_o

ame BaCeHTARAT DiSseMmAnioN

(aeaseeeetnceesey --Unentan MEME MO 26 1356474

i
}
|
=

AKIy BELIEVE RICO

GLY WAS UNABLE ‘16

THAT £ be

2, PROPOSE

(OE MARCHD). LaPTaR TO GRE RICO AC

ma Le TOUR,

t ESS HOPE
4 ;
i PROPOSE, :
i
: ;
ie :
i
tee : :
, : Hl
Ri oS q coorownsnes onncass, }
BZ-Brfroucnon BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. corn
: eerserinet.


=

O wo eestor) een ra eae nit a

OD no mom mut res nen.

[7] rio cony en ee ee : ial

bY TGS ANAL

EN WTALGAN 3 En fy StaTiay,

! BEST

WOLD ADEE

cOOrDIMATING OFniCEES

en t
§ REPRODUCTION SY CTHER THAN. THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED, corsa E



ot
—
SECRET

re Pitts

OCR :

Ss anaeves

are aT a a |

0 GALAN,
1= 336674,
‘A.

FIRE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

S07 867 ve seseveny on

SECRET



7 : ~ _

“worn eee Dac

cuassite ro 96 see

940 FE nO.
rice mo wee,
orsreor Die.

ie ECRET 2925492 CITE MEXICO CITY 9219 21 duh? 583217
: "O96
mua E, r i

esi ee trees pee

aT

9 7 iy
- cannen fOLINe ENQIQUEZ Y Va2Que? a0 » ¥1 oF Juan caRRasco z.
Y ZuaoRAM, “MAD TOLD HIM PRIVATELY EVESI9G 17 JaN THAT NEXT COMMIE

LARED VICTOR PICO GeLaN # ZPsiTOR AND HAD RULED HIM GUT “Sr gt

PARTY Hay

ee ED aCcusaT ION 4 -MAL{CLOUS LIE

OF PaRTY, RMEN TOLD L-3

ME CON

STATION“ HaS“NO THOTCeT 16:

PLE accuseT fom ‘tay ¥ ATED FROM LETTER SugReo

EES BY ATCO AND CARR LED OUT OF PRISON B#.

TOLD ROTGWN "HE VERY CLOSE TO 5°, CaRROSCO AND CaRMiti

RSESINENCE IM CuRs FROM 1951 TG 1969 SMD THat THEY FREGoEAT

« VISITO?S HIS YONE SINCE THEIR SETUPS Feny Have TO MEXT CITY IN 398€.

LoS. ORNCR IPED CARMEN as neurotic any Hev ins oe rTaL TROUBLES WITH

Ofc!

anout TO BFEGK UP, L-3 TOLO TCWTGN HE FIRST NET RICO

CaPRASCa 4

GALAN eT CaPRASCO NOME aNd THOUAH CaezesCo en RICO CLOSE FR{ENDS

_ CARPASCO UtO COMPLAINED TO L-3 IN past THaT' RICO WOULD NOT TaKxE Es



SRT

Ppevr 2 MICBwCiIY ANNO SECRET

Petey OaPpRased zno Pomel tHTO PICO RETHWOOK,

A, Soerae TAOK OCCASION T) REVESL TOL-3 THAT HE HAD. HEARD

SOME AIAN LEVEL FRICNDS LR GOVERACION SAY THAT RICO GeLaN Had
WRITTEN 0 LETTER STATING HE wILLING BETPoY MaHY SECRETS CONCERNING

FINEL CaSt8O ON CONDITION HE BE SELEASED FROM PRISON, ROWTON ADDED |
HE UXHERSTOND WOMAN WHO EX-WIFE CF MEXICAN AM9 TO INDIA HaD BEEN INTER~

MEDTOOY. L-S THMED ATELY RESPONDED THAT WOMAN WOULD BE ELEN GARRO

L-Z STATED ONCE ONTAINED HE COULD LATER STOTE ie Qo IT
L-3 STATED ONCE. LETTER OBTAINED HE WOULD CaRRY

CASTRO ML LST INE At) OF ISMAIL SUAREZ DE “ba PAZ, >
WL-3

hdeey

cen!

DIRECTLY TO FIDEL
jn RER GF CASTRO. NOW mie EXT, He bas UP MEETING BET

anf Casyen,
LLP ASS VOT YET SEPLIED aQNG RODRIGUEZ Comes’ INVITATION

PORTED BECAUSE HEA (SCUS: SED SUCH: CALL. WITH, SuesZ anu

OMMPNDED aga nHsT IT. 1) L=3 WRITING LETTER TO RODRIGUEZ H



Page 3.%EXICD cury Ome SE CR
Suare2 WILL SET ON NEXT INSOUND PLaNe. IN LETTER L-3 WILL TELL.
RODP [VEZ ME PREFERS VISIT .HaVa AFTER NEXT. AUSINESS TRIP 10 Guat
USLESS RODRIGUEZ HAS IMPORTANT REASON SEEING HIM PRIOR TRIPS
SECRET

eT

:
4
3
4



RX IS3ING_ACHON

{MAM ctr,

ee erat crouch

ro es
Chief of Station, Mexico City

ance
Victor RICO Galan
RET GOD RTOS

Mexico City-9925

. References

orwarded herewith aré three Copies of a memorandum
sSkE! EHOLD regarding. j~his:meeting..wk

ino
RICO Galen. on 13 January.

2 Also forwarded are -the ples of t
which was passed to LITEMPO-8 on 16 Sanuory 1967,

atch=and

3 lease call
of Chestér. 0. OAINOLD,

Willard C, CURTIS

Attachments: 7
Memorandum E i aeneraeee
Translation (Spanish) aa i

Disgribution:
A> WH, wlatts

mens aU 19

HHMA-31108

:SECRETKAPOK 201+336474

scars)


i
i
!

wh &

~of- whiskey. for. him, but_t!

thoughts during the discusslon and in ansiier to questions.
i

13 January 1967

SUBJECT: Meeting with Victor RICO Galan

}. The weiter had about a one-hour meeting with Victor
RICO Galan at the Lecumberr! penitentiary on 13 denuary 1967, -
The meeting was held. at the central -receptton. room whe
everal ormed guards present; my-civillan escort als
‘ema liied™in=the-generatarea; “and;-there-.we $
civilians present: from time to time (1 think walt in:
other prisoner: ‘+ a

: 2. RICO Galan arrived at the meeting eres at about. the
samo. t.lme.jas: 1: gid. After.an exchange of gr etings and a |
arm | » I gage-R ICO Galen “my Tetter-o: “Initroductitoni-..
(a copy ‘fs attached), . He read It carefully and then told
fia how glad he was to see me.. He Inquired about his friend
Corlo Cocclolly ¢ replied simply that 1 had seen him In Rome
before he left for Parts and he was fine, (At the end of
the meeting, RICO Galan asked me. to convey his greetings to
Ceccloli when | returned to italy, and of course | said lt .
would.) | also explained =.té: $0 Galan that 1 had a bottle
tdsbod refused to let me - -
jh

bring Tt ing § think he appreclated “the” ths:

3. Because of,
Communist Journalist -and a
for several yours, plus th

y¥connection with Cocckoll, a proz 2 :
da friend of RICO’Gelen in Mexico - H
nama of my perlodical,
enienza yocluliste, RICO Golan a ently sssumed t
pted meas) a: fe low Marchst..- He eaprassed
himself spontaneously and 1 belleve he reyealed his true

Ube.

A felendly rapport was immediately established between us.

4. I explained at the outset that 1 wes ‘on a tour of :
Latin America to study conditions and revolutfonary movements, i
If he were agreeable, | said 4 also wished co write a plece i
on him for Corrissondenza Soclalista. RICO Galan was very H
agréebble, {also said that If he wished to write an article i
for my perlodical, we would pay him. He also found this Idea uv
agreeable; but quallfled his approval by saying he first :
wanted to take a look at the periodical to see Its “line”
and format, t

5. Hy first substantive question was how he viewed the i
revolutionary sftuation-in Latin America. 1 asked whether .
he thought “violent revolution" a necessary stage In the :
development of Latin America. He answered quickly and :

er S304 14 i

ey

i span
Mata as 38 F ae


-2-

emphatically that. "violent revolution throughout Latin

i “* "America was "Indispensable" because the peaceful road to
necessary change was “blucked everywhere". He saw

q revolutionary movements onthe rise everywh tn Latin

|! asked for the Ideological nature and affitlations

of these revolutionary movements, He replied thet they are
Marxist, but-with liberal tendencies, not as rigid 68 the

International communist revolutionary Hine. :

"6.4 esked In which countries the revolutionary mov
mei irer-most=advenced.-".-He_named Guatemal. 1d.
in-@ category by themselves; there..the fevolutions were

certaln: ‘win: pow Then. he. gave
on. thése two countries. we

i
i
1
|

in-Guatomala, unlike Venezuela,
i not “Ini tlated:the: armed..struggle..

The two groups Involved in the armed struggle were the f

"13 November" group led by Marco Antonio Yon: Sosa, and the

“Fuerza Armada Rebelde (FAR)", led by Cesar Montes, now that

duis Augusto Turclos Is dead. The "13 November" group, he

7 sald, had Trotskylte Influences, while the "FAR" was.

i "Castrista/independent", and with tles to the Guatemalan:

. €P but also having differences with the CP. He sald 90%

of the. people in Guatemala are peasants ‘and the majority

sympath and sport the’ “struggte: *

|
|

* cor, De Menezuelar Both the cP. and th
the armad struggle, but. they have now abandon te H -
ants confined thelr efforts f

asked why, He sali both move
i: fastly to the cities and cack the form of terror{stic

~~" These tactles did ‘not=get -the revolution SAN Where »,
Frente de Liberacion Naclonal (FLN) led by Douglas Bravo
was directing the armed struggle, end this effort will succeed,

RICO Galan asked mia to read a recent article on Venezuela

by Harlo Menendez Rodriguez, Olrector of Suceses, who had

7 recently been to Venezuela and had Interviewed the FLN leaders,
in answer to my question, RICO Galan described Menendez asa

“perlodista Castrolsta®,
Renita 7. RICO Galen described Mexico as an apparent

i

|

i

|

democracy but "police state, tightly held". Here the |
“$opular movements" are on the rise. {n answer to my j
|

i

1

i

!

i

i

ae question as to who was leading these “popular” and
revolutionary movements in Mexico and Latin America, RICO

Galan'replied that there were no leaders ilke Castro around,

end the leaders would come from the writers, Intellectuals:

and lawyers,



4
i
i
i

“3Castro-

" whereabouts: of:

=3-

8. tasked RICO Galan for his approisal and total. __
Svaluation of Fidel Castro Ruz. He sald, first. of all, if
Cestro ts a Communist or what kind of a Communist he Is,

. Nobody knows. ‘He Is a great revolutionary leader and a great
tactician, but he can not play the role of liberator of tin
America for he 1s. too dependent upon Russia ond Russia
controls. him tightly. J think RICO: Gelon meant to, Imply that

bi m ol of ‘the Soviets. He sald, Ernesto.

"Cha" Guevara really wanted Cuba*'to breakaway ~from. the.

Soviet. chains, but asere Is: not. able to do this. As to the

RICE ian
Fidel Castro knows where he I.

“Regard ing-Cubsris Sovte. ts, RICO Galan said
they aré more apparent than re. ; asked him to”
countrlos. of primary Cuban or Soviet Influence, He sald
Castro has dominant Influence within the revolutionary move
ments In Vonezuala, Guatemala, ail of Central America, and
Colombia, The Soviets have dominant influence In Chite,
Argentina and Mexico. However, he added, In Maxico, Castro-
and Hoscow see “eye to eye” and have parallel policies, but

eathé primary. | h these policies Is Russia.

10. RICO Galan sald Communist Ch'ingse Influence if Latin’ @
America is. negligible. .

MN. After about an hour, our meeting ended abruptly for
a guard from the office of the prisen director ceme to get
“RICO Galon,-his_lawyer was. ti to see hia, 1 donia
back for an extra minute and we “parted, -reluctantty,.—._
with @ warm handshake. E

12, Tha foregoing clearly reveals RICO Galan to be an
unrepentant, fervent revolutionary. He believes, on the
badis of what he sald, that he Is assoclated with a winning
cause, Ha was In-high spirits and looked fine.

13, | returned to the Lecumberr! Penitentiary at about
5:15 P.M. the sams afteraoon for another session with RICO
Galan. The maln door entrancé was closed. 1 knocked and a
guard opened a little window. 1 asked to see the Olrector,
but the guard sald he was not there. { explained who § was
and whot | wanted; when he heard the name of HICO Galan, the
guard sald it was Impossible to sez him and closed the window.
A moment later I:knocked again. 4 asked the guard if he would
deliver a massage to RICO @etan from me, He sald that also
was Impossible, only the Director could do that. The guard
certainly did his duty. ae

erent



12 Gennaio 1967

Egregio Signore: -

-: Mi 'pormotta a1 introdumt - Lufgt De Marchi, it
serittore per“4l periodico “Corrispondenza Socialist.

(een wy

” In breve, st6* facendo un giro d'orizzonte pe:
Ee Mamorica. Latt Un anico a @ compagno di lavoro mie
mio, Carlo Coceioli, cul vidi Roma in dicembre prina
della sua partenza per Parigi e della mia por l'America
Latina, ai accenno‘di Lei e mi prego’di farle una visita,
Eecomi quit; Vorre’ asche approf re di questa visit:
per fare un cambio di ‘punta di v. let.





RBS

mOe

ny yu Yone jucla, yo cue elif 7 $ a
te se hor’ 1 poder. Tucgo ne hizo “un restizen i
eral de esos dos pa fsobs >

OD pe

encis de Venesucla, ,
da. Los dos :

wGG ‘
nesuela~eccrito-
H Suc gsc, cuien
: a ios ees eres del

Fonts daha

divije
yens

tualed y licenciodos.


so del
Lo propdo PISIS gaSvnd asta dduce

Rico |
Lacgo Lo pedt
iafiucncia
dnfluoneia” 1



stopecsengee

aa :
tousted.~ LUSGE Dz
tiSdico " Corricy

20 pesaite
Ataliono, cols:
Socislista ", de

give por inérice Tattne. Un endo
dodores, C.REU CoscI LI, a quien
‘ve outes do su sorti¢ va Porfs y.
pars inden Letinay rio che 26-de tted y ne pidié
heeerle una y “Pox lo. tanto qutoders oprovecher cxta:
visita: para tencr ain esnbio de punto: de, istd con usted,

29 riego “tena Ls Centiloza do ‘eonecterse un #0v0 de ~
su ticnpo. ‘ a

‘Spetuosonente

LUT. D;

iARCHTs



a a.

oe i 94g. JAN B67.
To: <The Commisoténee eae
a emi g: lon and Naturalization Bervico *

aa ek. : FROM: Deputy Director tor Plas

SUBJECT:
1. oka:

fade to your roquoat.23ter 12 December
Ng Subjece.(File No. Ald 506 455), The Giles of this
olfle6 Contata the following Information Pcrauant to the request,

2. -Kecording to 5 Prege release: from the Mexico Clty Polica
Departmoat ou 16 Auguat 1966, Subject vag Feported to be ane bf 4y
poroond orraated fo onddcting a: Sebool of guerrilin Warts ¥ Y é
the purpdad of overthrow lig tho: governinent of Mosice, Victor RICO ~~
Calan, Subjeci's vrotber saul one of the leaders of the yroap sdniite
that tha school w's ope ssted by the Popilar Revolutionary Movement
(MRP). Subject was one no tmevbere of the Broup indi¢ted on
22 August 1968 for con piracy, theitement to rebellion, 9nd acces’
latton ‘of armas ae :

i‘ 3. Aw Reticle putt
EL Migs dated 23 a
mectiaga were held

iohod Inthe. Meninan cally cowapager
vat 1966, statde tise Subjeet acmiteed that
ia her Nore to 42 tho'uctlvitied of tho MRP,

4. According to information datad @ Jaly-26 October 1955 from
® Source of inveowa relia bl ty, one Cermen i. do MENDG
Probably identleal with Subject, hae wet
1 Obsera.co Meste

FURTHER OR EXE TATgED ‘
FOR PP EMESSICRY OF fag



che

5. According tu, Informatio
usvally reliotile oc
Weatical with

CBCL=sb footyt<67

Each. Von :
Vattackment os stated above i ein

Rid/cE: IMA ro fost

HAMA ~30265

HMM 2516 (LIQUEUR)
HEIM-1394 (LIFTER)
20%-336474 EF

“BASED ON: MEXI~3416

FILE IN: 190-2232

BOL TO BF ye csp eae
TO ANKE

SYED Foerings On
CE: ‘

EXtinT EDD
MISSION OF THE

ee,

SECRET
| FILE IN 201-3



aaea eee et :
He Fa{ = SBEG- TG asss9 ved et ssiace

13 beste

> EC REE 1225232 CITE AzKiz0 CITY 9965

phiority 9:22¢To INFO ROWZ'~.
aygaT ae
Ree sexito-cite 9¢00 OF F977)

OLD HAD SUCCESS7UL ONE HOUR MEETING WITH Rico GALAN

VLTENTIARY ASANING 13 JANUARY: MEETING END:

f°" ABRUPTLY BY CALL PROM-DIRECTOR. OF PRISON THAT LANYER THERE TO -
see Rice. :

2. LEZHOLD HAD LETTER INTRODUCING HIMSELF “AS ITALIAN WRITER

ZA SOCIALISTS” AND AS ACQUAINTANCE OF CARLO

Ista

i FOR “ CORR ISPONDE
: COCCIOLI, ITALIAN PRO COMMIE JOURS AL IST WHO FRIEND oF RICO IN

j MEXICO AND ¥HG CURRENTLY IN. ZUPOPE. | AS RESULT RICO ATSUNED AND

i “ACCEPTES LEEHOLD AS FELLOY “ARIST AND FRISNOLY RAPPORT ESTABLISHED ”
i } IMMEDIATELY, 4SST-PRODASLE THAT RIGO EXPRESSED HIS REAL THOUGHTS IN

i DISCUSSIS AND ANSWER To CUTSTIONS ;

o “3, IN BRIEF, RICO

FERVENT REVSL

THOONGHSUT LATIN AMERICA

D MEXICO AS "APPAR. DEMOCRACY BLT

“BLOCKED EVEAYYHERE”. 0:

REALLY POLIce STATE TIGHTLY HELD", WHERE STRENGTH OF “POPULAR Aunty



PACE 2 “ZxIc0 CIty 9123 225.22 T.
voveteuts ON THE R122: exes E3529 9:
WIU'IN SUATEMALA OND VENEZUELA, CHARACTERIZED ‘CASTRO. AS OReaT °-
REVOLUTIONARY LEADER AUD Tact iciay sur Nor ABLE PLAY ROLZ Ag
LIBERATOR OF LATIN AMERICA euice HE.15°T00 SEPENDENT oN soviet a :
wHo TIGHTLY covtRoL MIM, 3io9 CASTRO INFLUENCE DOMINANT #ITHI: *
REVOL UT ioNARy MOVEMENTS. te PLLowis COUNTRIES, - VENEZUELA,

GUATEMALA, ALL CENTRAL AMZHica, COLOMBTA, sovisTs Sou thaNr Il CHILE,
e2Ica

1DEHICE” THAT REVOLUT 134. “ILL

anc iia AND HEXICO Sat> sazc05 GROUPS THROUCHOUT LATIN 4
DLSPZPUTAQLEL :
VOW2 AFTER MESTING. - PEL feye.

“ARE THE SMALLEST. AND 402T

4+ . COS AND LEEHOLD BRIZ7ED L
MEXICANS PLEASED AND APPRECIATIVE THAT “ESTING CONF IRNED T.
T OF RICI AS UNREPEST ANT REVOLUTIouaRt. LEEHOLD

ASSESS
ATTEMPTING SEE RICO AGAIN AFEZROON 1% Jat

5. LEZHOLD ETA yas tsar ss $629 14 JANUARY EASTERN 9345. :
ee a Leewsstfe ia) Currner” teinf beateed
SECRET Orv
Bt Beare



at Hoadguarters

(para. 4) to pay hia for an
CORR: SP ONDENZA “SOCIALISTA:

LIENVey72, een

2. The’'only time Rico asked ie not td Quote his (in any
artic Bight write) was aftor he had finlahed telling
astro was too dependent on thé. Russians (para 8),
Rico qualified his comzeat

by saying Castro vas

One thing one day ‘and do

ext day. ° a e

ending ‘of the mooting after just
; ble that thia .

“yas given-a fairly roug
t cunberrt penitentiary: Me .

Old.'ad: in’ 06 “uacertain terms that’ I could not:
ttle of whiskey to Rico which. ¥ had in my: i

yer On ay. way to tho. Sala reception’ area whore.
- ‘yilon 7 Go ‘through -séveral offices
eiihrattt 2 and guards. At odd point I vas ‘dnzod for my Passport and.
te is the guards were quite dodignant whoa I told thon that I had
" hit left uy passport at.‘the hotel. when’ I showed thea ay
Italien calling card instead, they wore net at all satisfied

% was taken. to a private cell for ‘a bedy search. 1 aiso had i
to sign in and out; présusably lixe any Other visitar to !
the penitontiary. 2

8. Tho above iactdents hough unpleasant for so at the Peeeee
ike, indicate that UITEHPO/8 had not made ‘the Lecunberrt i
gutboritios vitting of ay true mission, f

LDN.
T L. AL DeSanti i
Offica of ‘vi/gaA0 :



Translation of Jottor. of introduction te Rico Galan

12 January 1967 ~

Dear sir; 5 i : :
Permit m0 ‘to satroduse. myself: Luigi pe Marchi, an
italian writer tor the periodical “connisronpenza
SOCIALISTA" Of Rone, PS 10dicar Z

of youre and ‘a ¢,
Carlo Cocciols,
left. tor .

Rosbectfully,

Luigi pe tiarchi

i
i


19 Jaauary 1967 -

LSEHOLD'S: Contacts with, LIENVOY/2 on Rico
Galan cas » Mexico City, 11=13 Jaauary 67

Mexico City 9890. (IW 73995), 11 Jan 67

¥/2on 13-13 January on tho.

‘e ‘ok;
LIENV ; .
tween the ‘Station and

: ig Out-out J
finresnae 7 ¥ arranging my doterviey with Rico Galan at the
Pe a Lecumberri penitentiary on 13 January.

2. The avening of 11) January 1/3 phoned ae at my” i
>>; hotel and asked to 868 .mo° the next norning; he’ suggested H
a having. broakfast together at why hotel at 0830. Ho came: on . 7
i tims aad Yo apsat about aa hour tosother. He etatou that :
his purpose vas to find out for. LITENSO/3 what ay Gover
ite btory and.detailed plana were forthe Anterview with’ Rice, i

At tho outast. ho: wanted to kace.whetter T vas an American

or Italian citizea. Ho rust digo aave been Curious about
Les ay exact relationship with the ‘Asency, but Ald not probe at
i all, and. of ‘course I refrained froa voluntosring aay info,

th

3, -L/2 Geomed satisfied with ay. cover s9 an Italian’

‘ | Journalist on ‘a. tour of Latin: America ior ‘tho Rowe periodical, !

: CORRISPONDENZA “SCCIALISTA,'- ie approved aiso of the idea of j

: By wentioning Carlo Coccioli ta Rico as a follow journalist !

a "- Who“had- apked’ sia th Italy “1a Deeeaber to pay Rico'a viait i

i Guiog. sy forthcoming trip:to Mexiee, L/2 oxpresied. tha i

““yhew, bowover; that bt was ratier ublikely that Rico vould Pal
agros to sec Be. Ho sald in Heaieo bTisonees in general

aad ospecially Rico, were’ very suspicious and rarely vanted

to'seo strangers 44 prison, le then gave be a oriefing on



“phone 2a: at the’ Cc
soot 1: th:

“8x po30"

charactor, who did not: possa:
and who would -nov

with a similar caso in the Philippinos. D
it vas easier to suaful {nthe Philippias
level of Sulture th ‘perhaps, 19 not as ‘Ahigh-os her

B.. Wo parted, s

my calling card andan
thon persuade- nico to:

: war
potated out tho. risk tavulved in. bringing Eloaa Garto inte
the operation. “(Tho Staticn"s, position was dofdaltely
agelnst ‘her, Anvolvorent)... . Reing wealthy, dnfiuential,
wapredictablo and-uacontrollable, Zluna Garro,. i pointed
gut, Right wake a. phone’ cali “t the -poytodicalin Romo and
ur hand. L/2" réportod -back -to. 11/8, who agresd -
With our. position, 1/8 then. eamo-up with tho {doa of ny
writing a lottor of Introduction. for Rica and requesting
aa interview. 1 agréed to this schome, Later that’ evening
I recoived inétructioug froa i/4 tuat at 11:00 the next :
mori “2 phould. go ‘to. the oftice of ‘the Birsctor of
LecusberPl peuitentiary sad reyuust to éce Rico. The
pravious day L/2 had stated that LITEUPO/A wanted to go
wer the “whole aganda” @ith sybetore-f wont to see Rico,

6. During a: later phons conversation wi

but'plaas appsradtely chacged and 1 did hot have any contact -
/With LITEMFO/8. Be

- (7, At-tha seating vith alco ¥ personally handed Atco
the lotter of- utroduction, aad yot 4t bsex from him aftor

YRS had read. At. fn tho siddie of our intorview Rico’ aaxed

so have tho letter agnin ‘acd J banded it fo his. “y-plan
bad boei not to have tho letter ena up in Rico's hands 1£

peasible, but the abrupz. sading of the esting provonted uy
gotting At back. During tho Bfloting of L/2 by the COS and



$s aaa ea cep |

vse

Re,
‘Zeno B. LERHOLD
Office of WH/SAO

Diotribution:
A-Rico Galan'a: 301-336474

I-WH/1 LIENVOY/2 :
1VI/BAO
1“WH/COG i





{raluekéa con 103" ¢
g gon t

ug de mics
jg a nilo



i
;

a H
2otingido sex ‘ :
eae 3 ’ i

_ bho peat Fie-onte usted = IWIGI Dries :
Ltalisno, colatox=coy Gel neriddico " Corrisyondenza f
Socisliste ") do Roua. a a

2 por indrice Tots

ndouns ch.
rfote Ie

toy. efecti

BuyO"y corns waves, C.RLO COST: A
vi on Nova’ on Gietcubtyo cntea do su parties pera P, :
0,20. nfo. pare foe Letina, no habtd. de usted

hacerle ina Vititos Pox Jo tanto guy
visita pors tener un erihio de -ninto:

2) To.

Le. ruego tonza li: Gcntiloza do Conecderze un j.6s0-do
cu tionzo. i



10,

ll,

12,

13,

14,

+ fags & Latin America countries aro: ripe for violent revolution?

ee Ge Be

Ve CO hee

Do- you think’ a ‘violent Comauntut. revolution isa necessary
stage in. the development of Latin America?:- <>

Do you agree ‘with the view exprossed by Fidel. Castro that soto

In your view, which groups and loaders have. the biggest
potential for leading revolutionary movements: in Latin.
America? Do you think ‘guerrilla warfare can bring Communism,

to any L.A. Country? : peated i

In-your view which Téqhbpes aro most successful _1n- coping
with their internal -probloms, -

q
In your view, what impact is. Fidel’ Castro
revolution*® Latin America?

“Who'1s' doing more to promote Coniuntnt revolutions in Latin

Ameticn, Cuba, the Soviet Union or China. tow do you see “thé :
role of each country? : :

Ilow do the revolutionary theor ten: ‘of Cuba, Moscow and Poxing
differ from cach other as applied to Latin ‘America. -

‘In your view, are the Soviets. using. Castro as an instrument

to promote their revolutionary line and’ interests, or: is Castro's
Line @pposed to the Soviets’ in Latin-Amer tea. :

1s the Qiliance for Progress. haying much effect in-promoting
economic deve lopment: and political stability in Latin America?
Can Europe play more of 4 rolo-in Latin América to promote —
economic development? How?

It ds sald in-jowrnalistic circles that the Soviets resent and
oppose Casiru's tactics in Latin America because. they undermine
the position of the orthodox Communist Parties loyal to Moscow,
Tt is also said thar the Soviets are-plytting to eliminate Fidel
Castro,

Is this information correct?

Tt so, do you think Castro is aware of tile Soviet plans?
Did Castro ever discuss with you his conflicts with Mos
is his solution?

In your view how ‘large is-the Castro apparatus operating in Latin
America to promote guerrilla warfare and revolutions. From
AMhat elements of society do the Cubans yet their support?

Is China an obstacle to the expansion of Cuban and Soviet influence
in Latin America?

How serious, in’ your opinion, isthe discord between Havana and
Moscow regarding revolution {n Latin America?



15, Tho Italfan Communist Party is believed to be the “directing”

Party" for several Latin America ‘Communist Parties. In your: ey
«view, how, influential is*the role of" the Italian -CP in Latin i
Americ: i Ce cahuaraaaacean : ‘ eae

“-" 4g. What 4s the effect in’ Latin Amorica of :the Sino-Soviet split
- --and of the crisis in international Communism? eaten

17; would be interested. in your obscrvations and comments. on the .
Red Guards and the Chinese “Cul tural iRevolutiony eeecssieatieed BP

Secare ae “Ye, youemay: have’ hoard that <the Yougoslav ex-Comiunist leader, 4
pao H i Djilas; ‘was released’ from: ‘prigor on ‘New. Year,'3 Day. How do
@> you view Djilas, what'do you think of hin?”

‘



INO BOTTOM

SUCHET.

CENTRAL INTELLGI
OFFICIAL Roi

[apPHovat

COMMENT .-

{| CONCURRENCE

FOLD HERE TO RCTORN

TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADaneSS ang

HONE NO

foast 3,
261

CONFIDENTIAL,



p

19 January 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT -: LEEHOLD'S Contacts with LIENVOY/2 on Rico.
, Galan case, Mexico City, 11-13 January 67:

"REFERENCE: Mexico City 9890 (1N 75995), 11 gai’ 67

1." Reference reported that the Mexico City Station
put LIENVOY/2 in telephone contact. with the undersigned
on 11 January, Following. is a full account*of my. subsequent
gontncts with LIENVOY/2 on 12-13: January on. the Rico Galan -
case, 1/2 Served as out-out between the Station and
LITEMPO/S in arranging my interview withRico Galan at the
Lecumberri penitentiary on 13° January,

2, The evening of 11 January:L/2 phoned ime at my.
hotel and asked to séé.mé..the next morning; he suggested
having’ breakfast ‘together at my hotel at: 0830, He: came on
time and we’ spent about an hour together,. He stated that
his purpose was to find out for LITEMPO/S what iy. cover.
ery and detailed plan were for the interview with Rico, .
At the outset he wanted to know whether I was qn American
or Italian citizen, He must also have been curious about
my exact relationship withthe Asency,-but did not probe at
all, and of course ‘I refrained trox volunteering any info,

3. -L/2 scomed satisfied with my cover as an Italian.
journalist on a tour of Latin America for. the Rome ‘per lodical,
CORRISPONDENZA SOCIALISTA. “Re approved also of the idea of.
tty mentioning Carlo Coccioli to Rico as a fellow journalist
who had asxed mé in Italy in Degeater to pay Rico a visit
during’ my forthcoming ‘trip to Mexico. L/2 expressed the
view, however, that it .wassrathet unlikely that Rico would
agree to seeme. He “said in.Mexico prisoners. in general
and especially Rico, were very suspicious. and rarely wanted
to see strangers in prison, ite then gave me a bricfing on



Rico whieh painted Rico as an extremely evil and clever
character, .who did not possess one ounce of sincerity,
And who would fever cuase being aM vxist revolutionary,
for etripped. of his Marxist propaganda weapons Rico was.
4 nobody.="and Rico did not want to be a nobody.

4... 1 told-L/2: briefly of Y successful experience
with a similar. case ‘in.the Philippines, He Commented that
it was easier to be successful inthe Philippines "for the
level of €ulture there, perhaps, is not as high as: hero,"

5. We parted with the understanding that -L/2 would”
Phoneme at the Cos's office later that Morning-aftor his ~
reg ting with LITEMPO/8. When he called, at about 11:00,
4/2 ‘said LITEMPO/8 liked ‘the cover story and cre plan but
he wanted to increase: tho chances that Rico would sce.me_
through the following mincuvor. LI/8 wanted to send Eleia
Garro Do. PAZ (the same: woman who had brought cet Rico's
Signed statemcnt of hin willingness to tet] alt in return

on) to Rico carrying my calling card and an
issue of my periodical; .she would: then persuade Ries to

see me, . -~

punted oot ins: 2 later phone: conversation with L/2.
pointed out the. risx-involved-in bringing Elena Garro into
the’ operation. (The Station's position wac definitely
against her. involvement), Boing wealthy, influential,
unpredictable and uncontrollable, Elena Garro, I pointed
out, might make a phone-call to the periodical in Rone and
wheb cae hands L/2 veported back to LI/8, Who ‘Agreed
with ou position, L/8 then came up with the idea of my
writing a letter of introduction for Rico and requesting
gn interview, I agreed to thig schéme, Later that evening
I.veceived instructions frum. L/2 that at 11:00 the next
morning I should goto the office of the Director of
Lectinberri penitentiary and request to see Rico, The
provious day L/2\had stated that LITEMPO/8 wanted to go
over ‘the "whole agenda” with me before 1 went to’see Rico,
but plans apparantgly changed nud 1 did not have any contact
with LITEMPO/8,

_ 7. At the meeting with Rico I Personally handed Rico
the letter of introduction, and got it been from him after
he had réad it, “In'the middle of our: interview Rico asked
fo Rave the ‘letter agdin “and I handed it to hin. My plan
had been not to have the letter end up in Rico's hands if
Possible, but the abrupt ending of the meeting prevented my
Rotting 1¢ back. During the briefing of L/2 by the CoS and



3

mecafter my meeting with Rico, we asked. that LITEMPO/3 :
try’ to get this letter back from Rico through tho. © . i
penitentiary. authoritius.. L/2 agreed that-it would.

be a good ides to’ get™ the letter back and said he would

discuss this matter with LITEMPO/8, Saran a docetcbrecet

ZB
Zeno B. LEENOLD
OfLico of Wil/SAO.

i i:
} Distribution: a dan -
i 1-Rico Ga lan"s*201-336474- .- : ere Foe
H AsWH/LLIENYOY/2 : : ¥
1-WH/SAO :
1-WH/COG sae : :

+

Mees



17 January 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, ¥H/coo
SUBJECT : Possible Re-Interview of Victor Rico”
Galan’ (201-336474).

REFZREWCE i) Mexico City 9925° (IN 77986), 14 Jan 87

; 1. Referonco summarized tho. undersigned's first

; interview with Rico Galan at the Lecumborri penitentiary

+ on 13 January, At that intorviow Rico apparantly azeumed

i find acceptéd that I was a féllow Marxist journalist, on
a tour of Latin Amorica for tho Italian periodical,
CORRIS PONDENZA SOCIALISTA, ‘Ho talked freoly asa
revolutionary in yonoral terms about revolutionary.
movozants and leadors 1p Latin America, including: the

Cuba and Bovist roles,

+ 2. Wy attempt to havo a secend: interview with Rico
was not. successful, due to circumstances beyond wy aad
Rico's control » The Question now ig .whother wo ‘should
plan-to go through with a secohd ioterview., Tho purpose
would be to obtain further Anformation on royolutionary
mOvecents and loaders. (Tho requirosenta of the Mexican
Governzent were satisfied with the first interview),

23 One possibility might be for ms to see Rico in |

about '10-12 days, ostensibly after a raturn trip to Mexico H

fron Panama (or Guatemala cr some other country). 1 I

cs could sention to Rico the nimes of one or two Comaunist f

Teddore.of ‘the country vishied who had briefed me; I could :

“also-reveal-sono Othar deception or slalited tnformation;

indluding names of Castroite leaders; thon wait for, or
elicit, pBAGe 8 coamonts and observations.


7 -2--

4... Ao noted above, the purpose of a follow-up
interview would be to obtain more dotatled information
from Rico on the Castro and Soviet role

a, supporting
not. serely to

obtain further ‘information on the ‘country’ visited. Tho

| Qpproval of the Mexican Government, (LITENPO/3) would

again bat necossary “for such a follow-up interview,

Louie A. Degant4
Office of WI/BA0--

Distribution: |
Orig & 47- Addréssee
A = WH/SAO Chrono



 edassiey 10 e10e moe

“~

ti Over Ovo

went 10 Fu AO.
rive aro wer. 10 veanew

eestor O) sia.

dovanee Core

Owe O

SECRE T 1323252 2272 MEKICO CITY 9925

PRIORITY DIRSCTO% L¥F2 ROME

RYBAT ae
REF: MEXICO CITY 33227 Pro) ©

1. LEENOLD HAS SoccessFuL Ove HOUR MEETING WITH RICO GALAN
AT LECUNBERRI PENITZSTIARY MORNING JS JANUARY, “MEETING ENDED

ABRUPTLY BY CALL F227 DIRECTOR OF PRISON THAT LAYYES THERE TO

SEE RICO :
OLD HAD LETIER [NTROQUCING HIMSELS AS ITALIAN WRITER :

FOR "CORRISPONDENZS SOTIALISTAT AND AS ACQUAINTANCE OF CARLO

SOMMIE JOURNALIST WHO FRIEND OF MICO IN -

tr DOM

COCCIOLI, ITALIAN

MEXICO AND WHO CURPERTLY IN EUROPE,
o# MARXIST. AND FRIENDLY RAPPORT ESTASLISHED

DIS REAL THOUGHTS IN.

AS RESULT RICO ASSUMED AND

IMMEDIATELY, MOST o3LE THAT RiCO EXPRESSE

LF AS CONVINCED, UN

- DISCUSSION AND ANS:
REPENTANT,

Sv IN BRIEF,

FERVENT REVOLUT (ONees

THIOVGHOUT LATIN AYESIZA SINCE” PEACEFUL -RGAD TO NEC:
VED EVERYYHERE™. JESCRIGED MEXICO AS “APPARLIT DEMOCRACY BLT

"BLO

TLY HELD", .¥HERS STRENGTH OF “POPULAR Aca ve

REALLY POLICE STATE =



PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 99235 SECRET bare an -

MOVEMENTS’ OH THE RISS, EXPRESSED cour IDENCE ther, REVOLUTION WILL

WIN IN SUATEMALA AYO VENEZUELA CHARACTERIZED CASTRO AS GREAT
REVOLUTIONARY LEADER AND TACTICIAN SUT NOT ASLE PLAY ROLE AS ;
LIBERATOR OF LATIN AMERICA SINCE ME I$ TOO DEPENDZIT ON SOVIETS
HO TIGHTLY CONTROL HIM, siap CASTRO INFLUENCE DOYINANT WITHIN
REVOLUTIONARY “JOVEYENTS IN FBLLOWING COUNTRIES VENEZUELA,

GUATEMALA, ALL CENTRAL AMERICA, CCLOMBIA  SOVIZTS DOMINANT IN CHILE,

ARGENTINA AND MEXICO SAID CiIICO' GROUPS THROUGHOUT LATIN AMERICA
ARE THE SMALLEST AND MOST DISREPUTABLE.

4, GOS AND LEENCLD BRIEFED LIEWVOW2 AFTER MEZTING, BELIEVE
NEXICAMS PLEASED AND APPRECIATIVE THAT MEETING CONFIRYED THEIR
ASSESSNENT OF RICO AS UNREPENTANT REVOLUTICHARY, LEZHOLD
ATTEMPTING 3EE RICO ACAIN AFTERNOON 13. JAM

5. LEEHOLO ETA WASNINGTON 1690 14 JANUARY EASTER 994,

BASE ADVISE YFG yf. ewer i Garner levrff Lecteld
secret Orn wa” i

ee
aT OPH PET



=

sugared . ebat 7

(Geaasiniirgher Ait






ee ta” Ben LRT.

Regt: ote X
ee

gee (pkeewrs,
Ho meine, Sse
ae é

te Rede. |



ake
AMG o

CALS
x

oN

ae

=

”



thee Coe







* RYBAT TYPIC
REFERTICES DIRECTOR 63461 -
STAT 108 HaS PuT LiENvoy/2 “ai “CONTACT WITH “LEENOLD: bre,

AS CyT-OUT IN “ARRANGING MEETING WITH RICO. MEETING

i.

DELAYED SLIGHTLY. SINCE LITENFO/8 OuT OF CITY.

EORE
zi : we Le Hebd Era mex

aHaa a ie

mM
fa
B
boa
CR
5



E7041 9462. CIEE MEXICO CT

ECTOR

“RYSAT TYPIC
REF DIRECTOR 63461
RESERVATIONS CONFIRMED al HOTEL GEVEVE 8 Jat 67

FOR Nas ‘LOUIS DE SANTI.
SECRET

BT



MESSAGE FORM
Fo¥AC copies

-yoPHEXICO- Cty
RYBAT . TYPIC-
_ DIR 61904

/REI

i %&, ZENO B, LEEHOLD ETA MEXICO CITY 8. JANUARY 2317 EASTERN ,905.

NO NEED MEET, PLEASE RESERVE ROOM AT GENEVE, ADVISE, LEEHOLD WILL

CALL STATION MORNING 9 JAN.

END OF MESSAGE
 MESBAC

= -evanscoc/ca/Pa( oon
 em/e ven Vi, we Lonro
_WH/L E

pee ‘C/WED ee ; ‘ i
: ‘ £00! Ly
peveasing ove icea geal BECRET |

Re pmoouctign BYGINER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 15 PROMIGITEDS



e
é
z

FTeeassiried wessace

rorat ones

REF “piRECtoR «2639 of -
: te “ Goptes Two ARTICLES BY. de wi RCHI IN ocbeen AND
NOVEMBER ISSUES oF
REF, PARA 2 ADDRESS,
: 2. SINCE STATION HAS NO ACCESS TO DEY MAR CHT, WHO.
BESIDES NOT PROMINENT , AND DE PLUNGE CANNOT BE OUEST ToneD,

PONDENZA SOCTAL Ista aia ED t0-

PER REF, PARA 1, CAN PROVIDE NO RELIASLE INFOR? MAT ION RE:
HIS cUnrewt WREREABOUT S,: DE MARCHT RESIDES VIA TOLMINO 5S,
ROME, Is SECRETARY ITALIAN ASSOCIAT Ian FOR BEWoGRA PHIC
EDUCATION, ENGAGED BIRTH covtROL RESEARCH .

SECRET

SPE MARCH



: ~ 2° MESSAGE FORM,
TOTAL comes

jess LDuSANTT: SRE. Crue Rw -

ari hiveoceuek™ OTSl" Pspeaey
er 12975" - Rao moee = >
pare: 28 DECEMBER 66 201=336474

ne

Drie teed ree hor

: a ee ee ‘are baectoR
Pane : Bee Uz

(ROME INFO MEXICO CITY’

REF: ROME i6s0 eng 86483)

1, PLAN USE DE MARCHT COVER, SUCGESTED PARA 4 ead DEEM .BACK-
STOPPING Nor ae DO NOT INFORM DEPLUNGE: fe

Heid

_2, HAS ANY ARTICLE BY DE Manat APPRARSD IN“LATEST TWO ISSUES.”

OF CORRISPONDENZA SOCIALISTA OR ELSUWIERE? IF SO PLS AIRMAIL, T0 Sawer
- C227 ADDRESS MENTIONED DIRECTOR 61116, ALSO WOULD APPRECIATE: ANY
INFO CURRENT WHEASABOUTS DE MARCHT, "

END OF MESSAGE

skoymycoayea:«” 79-De Gut:

C/EUR §

COORD NATINS OF riceaD
SECRET

ne raooucromer THAN Tag Issuing oresee 4s PROMBITED, baci dion
7 .

aurnenricavin,
Oreicen

eceaging ornicen sal ¢ aa



Ve REF, B°SUGGESTION Was, HoT HAT utchoio POSE
AS DEPLUNGE, BUT that OEPLUNCE Be REQUESTED PROVIDE-NAIE: ~
OF FICTIONAL, LTA BAN JOURNALIST. OsTensipuy WORKING “FOR. :
DEPLUNGE'S JOURNAL wien NAME: LEEHOLO. Couto ADOPT AS. Auias.
THUS IF OEPLUNE Suasequewriy RECEIVES INQUIRY, RE THIS:
JOURNALIST, HE CAN BACKSTOP,

a OF HEADQUARTERS DESIRES, DEPLUNGE CAN. BE; ASKED. :
PROVIOE NAME OF “ACTUAL ITALIAN YOURNALIST,. ; DISADVANTAGE
1S.1F LATER SUBSEQUENTLY ACTUALLY TeugeO. AND QUERIED
COULD oewy INVOLVEMENT, : :

3. FOR BEST BACKSTOP HOWEVER BELIEVE MOST EFFICIENT, :
ENLIST DEPLUNGE bak leased ‘AS OUTLINED ABovesco AT “LEAST
SOME INITIAL ‘BACKSTOP PROVIDED BY HIM,

%, IF ONLY NAME OF NON-PROMINENT BUT ACTUAL

[ SECRET. |



~ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE | SECREI

ITALIAN JOURNALIST. OrsiReO WITH HO SUBSTANTIVE

CORRISPONDENZA, SOCIAL ISTA, CAMILO OcKEV
-OFSLLAVORO: ITALIANO, ENRICO LANDOLF, Psu,

AND: LAVORO ITALIANO,
SECRET.



Pop twee: One Ove asia
Classis 19 nue

HEF. DIRE TO  @16 14”

i
i
:
i

ACTUAL BACKSTOPPING WITH IAL lam PU2L IGAT Tow Be
PEF GRDED LEEHOLD.  RGiME PRE ST \Hos. CONCURRENCE,

DISCUSS BACKSTOP WITH DEPLUNE #49 ZS ITOK SMALE ITAL IAW

LEFTWING JOURNAL , LOCATED ROME. i TALS DISCUSSION

PROPOSE NOT MENT ION LEENOLD-S 9482, IF HOS AGREES ABOYE.

UPST ALIAS FOR LEZRCLD £E PROVIDED ROWE.

PROPOSAL, RE
PLAS Te BMCIT imPekavmeuT

cRET
at :

TA! Bile GéLads



Osone
“ONO monx
Orndmemena

_ mEREFORE: REQUEST HOME ALSO PROVIDE, NAME" OF: iTALiAN Jounnatasr:
WO NOT TOO:PROMINENT AND WHO NOT PREVIOUSLY courte, BUT
CLEARLY LINKED TO NON-COOIE LEFT GROUP SUCI.AS NENNI “SOCIALISTS,
BY- LINE SHoved net BEM Srey ~ ay
PP GoRRENTEYS 9 nna

c/wut/o0a/cayPA fea

c/iH/1_ C8, Ru.

coonoiwaries orricenn

SECRET eshte

| aurrenriear
one

ARAN! Fare tg Fim



ori 2075
22 Di

seen

ne é ESSAGH, YOK
ras “|roran coney'y z:

Dey
ot L,A,DESANTI/pap. Oras ao ste ict
it WHACOG/CA/PA inves S.B-C RET: :

‘pe inoex
m edema. 2OL 336474

OK TYPIC.- LIRAMA- oy ea res i ‘
pI Spay el Geli eis

ENDING COMPLETION OF ARRANGEWENTS FOR “COVER” AND NOTIONAL |
LLY SET FOR 6

“IDENTITY _ UR, LOUIS DE SANTI’ oe MEXICO PROVISION

JANUARY. aiceiusieeetaean eee ae
END OF MESSAGE

# pRoese Send WL raaty fteries M em nkay VERE PCO Giza,

poi " CAvH/COG/cA/PA, Loa" fu :
- — OE oS

~ - maga
WH/L Sl a =

Pirie cea z
Sit DA | : : :
Gali Hsin eee

2 C/WED ;

3- >

ey QEBLINER THAN The issuinG OFFiCe Is PROMIITED,

row

SECRET 1] pees ames

peony}

copy wa.



_RESSAGE FO!

i : pian) Toray co
nga TJ FLORES Grae mo mac
: i/C( ‘Ginoex SECRET
7 Bro, 2

#o1-936474

cu
tof PRIORITY, ROME : INFO: - MEXICO CITY:

RYBAT TYPIC areoan :
“REF: MEXICO CITY 9716 (18 4428). (NOT-SENT ROME).

1. “FYI, | VICTOR RICO GALAN, CUDAN AGENT IMPRISONED. NEXICO'CITY.

18.08 2 ere pixcron

ON CHARGES PLOTTING AGAINST MEXICAN GOVERNMENT, HAS SENT, OUT FEELERS
INDICATING THAT HE WISHES TO: PROVIDE INFORMATION “EXPOSING CASTRO AND
(BES AGENTS" 18 EXCHANGE FOR RELEASE, STATION MEXICO CITY AND MEXICAN

“SECURITY OFFICIALS. WORKING TOGETHER ON POSSIBLE EXPLOITATION,. MATTER

REVIEWED BY DAINOLD AND MEXICAN MINISTER OF GOVERNMENT DURING FORMER'S

RECENT VISIT NEXICO CITY. - \
2. FOLLOWING PLAN EVOLVED AS FIRST STEP TO EXPLOIT INHERENT
POSSIBILITIES, BEST ESTIMATE RICO'S MOTIVATION IS THAT HE WILL TRY TO

TRADE MINTMAL “INFORMATION FOR RELEASE:
SEND MR LOUIS DESANTI TO MEXICO TO INTERVIEW RICO

GALAN ‘sinc DISGUISE. AND POSING AS ITALIAN EX-COMMUNIST NOW
JOURNALIST WITH LIBERAL JOURNAL,

Be ALTHOUGH TAXE FROM. INTERVIEW NOT EXPECTED RESULT IN
TOTAL REVELATION OF RICo's ACTIVITY IT WILL PROVIDE OPPORTUNITY
FOR STAFFER ASSESSMENT AND MIGHT BE FOLLOWED UP WITH SUFFICIENT

cogag:nating ovr.

semwnn gn psec ee? _] [Seer] ee

aevnopucryon gréotm GOINUR THan THe ISSUING OFFICE 15 heetbune

ares


MESSAGE FORM,
forai comes:
‘ ‘Orig’ aio T peteeeagae=ans
A ee SECRET
eee Oro moex .
+ : Dene ines rice no.

a H RID COPY

if :, A aol

3 oa Tet ee Stee =:
Pac#. TWO 7 Bs CITE DIRECTOR age |

“NAMES . oF ITALIAN JOURNAL AND. D oF NOT TOO, “PROMINENT TTALIAN
‘ SOURKALIST AS DE SANTI ALIAS NOT YET SELECTED. SINCE Bove COVER
WILL BE NEEDED ONLY FOR RELATIVELY. SHORT PERIOD, ako A LIMITED. NUMBER

OF WEXICAN SECURITY OFFICIALS WILL BE AWARE THAT IT IS A cCovER, BELIEVE
NO BACKSTOPPING ARRANGEMENTS WILL BE NECESSARY.

4,. WOULD ‘APPRECIATE: ROME COMMENTS ,

i 5. Prrsnttrstrrrsrsce rte isdulioihe

_. HEF BY GEPARATE CABLE.
S : END OF MESSAGE

WILL PROVIDE DATA REQUESTED

CAVH/COG/CA/PA,

cCAH/1_ 3. x J, Kaufmaa (in draft)

7 ‘EuR/Cuba L. Raty ” (in draft) ali
Hee les

: <a he “pd
WALLA “BROE |

+ . t

cooroiaring orrieene

SECRET ener oe ne



SE.C.R ET 2123902 CITE MEXICO GITY 9716° tts 8442e-
DIRECTOR ey Pa
LIRANA

1. DURING 17 DECEMBER CONFERENCE yITH DAINOLD, LITENPO/8
NOW BEING HELD IW yaIL yNOER
SELF

}
i

STATED THAT, VICTOR RICO’ SaLAY
CHARGE OF CONSPIRING TO OVERTHROY GOM,. HAS PROCLAIAED H

DISAFFECTED WITH CASTRO RUZ AND WILLING TO-DIscyss HIS PREVIUYS

CONNECT LOW VITH CUSANS IN DETAIL. PRICE, vAICH 18 Tod MECH FOR
MEXICANS, IS HIS RELEASE FRON CONFINEMENT. LITEMPI/2 ADDED THAT

: ALTHOUGH HE HAD HAD SOME OF HIS SEST INTERROGATORS wokKiIiC OW Hl

RICO GALAN, HE HAD NCT SEEM ABLE TO EXTRACT ANY INF! ATION OF

SIGNIFICANCE FROM HIN,

26 DALNOLD COMMENTED THaT HE Ha AVAILABLE a LEFTIST a
2 MALIAN JOURNALIST vHOM HE REGARDED MISHLY aS THTERAICA! Oe
i £ @RD WHO-HAD RECENTLY HAD CONSISESARLE SuCcESS IN OSERIEF ING No?
: A-TOP Mu LEADER IN PHILIPPINES. HE Su3GSsTED Tilat THIS: NS k
on

PERSON MIGHT USEFULLY BE INTRODYCED INTO RICG Gsbas Lstes

ITEHPO/S AGREED, AND NOY EXPECTS HIM wEpH Fy
, Cover ecscritiox, persovatiry, SECRET

2

3. STATION NEEDS IDE



a

Seeae TS

at

ae

Ms

a ETA :

-suserst



foeeae

a tie

gtoun atten

at SanJluis, Sonora on
toned, “The Lot Ovners
Yoo otory indicates
tb uhe expropriation
(Refers.

to. the Bjlds Sar
files; Arizuna Invell ic

. ities durin: tie coring noli-
ne’ local. coitaittae from San Luis, Gonora, néwled «
were. cuccesoful: in. forming. a.

AP 57, Sonova. ‘The source’ otates
wotrietly for yoiltient pi

eported concede
_Hermoof ite, Sonora. 1
alieyes tim twtr

-2-

CONFIDENTIAL

CONMBENTIA

y
i

wey ace Wel

3



. . i : _ ie

418 bd wos OE
Jace 1 etka wee
crear Gate ia

s £ C RET. 0619452 ene MEXICO cr
binector INFO “onda

1966,_ THE: AST GERS
BFL 0:

_ VERACRUZ:

: + aul aE ae reante :

f 100 GaLasiriTEAc = :
Row og Rico. posi” 1923saNo fe CHILDREW Manta R_gica

* BARRON, DE R260)- DOB 1929

Big = ° OC RRITHC, on Nas Bia Ges
gpa, DOB 1963, MONICA’ RI

S SARRON. DOB 1964" AND GRACIELA
RICO BARRON, DOB: 1965s. TRE RICO FAMILY GAVE THEIR ADDRESS
AS. CALLE BALBOA22, COLONTA FORTALES, MEXICO'5, D.F.

2. FERNAIDO RICO Is THE BROTHER OF VrcrOR RICO GALAN
£201-536474). THE RICO FAMILY DID NOT SAY HOW LONG THEY. PLANNED

‘TO REMAIN IN CUBAS ~

INDEX FERNANDO RICQ AND GRACIELA BARHON DE RICO: TO



Teer eae

SECRET

‘O° DE PAZ to ‘pass to'L ce I Hee . =

urn-gave it to Bernard A Ede: ebrook; * : 5

@-copy of ‘the covering. note, written- by Mrs, DE PAZ Gtta nnont "Bry
“and. Foush translations of both pi, - id

officers®
nature was-hia, that he and Mrs..DE PAZ ha

that: Mrs. DE PAZ had‘ typed, out ‘the copy’ an i

hin in prison where he had signed it. — LIT a A earns

bad. said that. ne vas, caer toi TO 5 ,o :
LITENPO-8 said that he had no ‘objection to such an

tnterview,

3. In’ the opinion of LITEMPO-8 the RICO Calan statement. is
merely a maneuver by which RICO Galan hopes te get-out of jail
by promising to supply information and to oppose Fidel CASTRO."

ATTACHMENTS :
-'Copy.and translation of a piece written by Yiecter RICO Galan hy

- Covering, note written by Mrs. DE PAZ.-- b/w

Distri bution:
¥O-C/BED B/AtE ALL n/a, C u/s/e

4-Files

a2 AM Lee pany
rer wae BEE
: : HMMA~-30780

rrresircy

SECRET

i



ANTI “im

CONTINUATION: OF.
DISPATCI :
Mo od see

RELL cS passage

4, On & December, LITEM
“almost crazy" for Tor
fear that: his “fr
Government’ wili ”
that his wife,
editor of POLITICA,

ts

4 told-COS that RICO Galan is
Hons; confinement. of course; hia

dest nodal

cory,

iroe
a4 $30 vat esavous tore,

cr a

i
}



BECRET

ica, ‘polte ea and "eg eonents to follow’!

omer soesas | ‘and

which. gauged: the dtsappontance of Guovara, Tt consider nydolt.

!
‘testament ‘to Gnmisk ¥£de1 Castro i

authorized to write a politics 23
bofure the’ Feyoiutionaries of Latin Amerlea' ad-an agent of Stalinien,
oruviin sade 'Veeda, the

The fall .©f Caamabo, ‘the aurdsr’ of the |

! ering of ‘Turcios, ete., hav. heen, carrie out. _by

Fo agente, 9
charged with the murder and destiuction of everything that diffors '
with Castro’ @ line. (Rolf) Motiera (Husbner) ; (isgueky Cruz i
(Ruiz) and mysel? pave. been delivered up by agents such as (Luis)
Lizaldo, kenendez, and othdta, to sileiice the truth thet should be

knova by the’Latin Auericana, Tho pezt victia is Yon Gora ‘and ‘

many nore asd Bave biddén themselves for the monent fros the i

aosnoutan, * iy testinony would be polttiéal and ideological gcince

X myool? wrote many of Guevara's articles and it would ait nothing

of names ard details necousary to unmask Fidel Castro and his agonta.¥

' : : signed Victor Rico Galan

SECRET

Te jira 3



“BECRET

whieh caused the Gkeappearaiice of é Guevara, r consider nygait”

authorized to write ® pol: ical testatont to unnask Fidel Castro
before the revolutionaries: of Latin America as an Beent of Stalinisn,

Tho fall ot Caamano,. the aitrdor: of the Peruvian loader Uceda, tho.

i
i
i
i
ot

ering of Turéios, ete., have beon carried out by Castro agents,” -

charged with the murder and destruction of everything that differs

vith Castro's line, (Rolf) volners (ituebuor), (Miguel) Cruz
(Ruiz) and nyself have been delivered up by agents such as (Luis) : i
Lizalde, Kenendez, and others to silence tho truth that should be
known by the Latin Americans, The next victia 1s Yon Sosa end

many ‘nore who have hidded themselvés for the roment froa the

assassins, My testinony would be political and ideological stnce-

i

i
i
i
i

I syselg wrote many ‘of Guevara's articles and it “gould oait nothing

of nazes and details necensary to “unmask Fidel Castro and his agents.¥

signed Victor Rico Galan

SECRET

yee
fe
—_—



j
ae

tre Fidel Castro y

a proposito de ise thotte
onaron 1a deeapartotén dol Cho, Quovara
“p litteo > que Aesenn

p-encargados de asesinar y destruir a todo |

Meineray Cruz-y ¥



IDENTITY
Second Secrotary of the Benanoy
: Charles Thomas

SECRET

£S copy



anaes

30 NOVEMBER 1966) THE EAST “GERMAN, cago, ‘SHIA; os 35 “Fieate LEFT fe
VERACRUZ ON 13-.NOV FOR HAVANA, CUBA) with THE. FOLLOWING PASSENG! ERS : a

‘FERNANDO RICO GALAN, TEACHER, DOB” 1925; HIS WIFE.GRACIStA |<
BARRON DE RICO, DOB: 1529 AND THEIR CHILDREN MARIA PS RICO
BARRON, DOB: 1963, MONICA RICO BARROW, | p08} 4964 "AND GRACIELA
RICO BARRON, DOB: 1965. THE RICO FAMILY GAVE THETR ADBRESS
AS CALLE DALBOA 22, COLONIA PORTALES, MEXICO'S, DLP.

2s FERNANDO RICO Is THe BROTHER OF vieror RICO GALAN Z

: (201-356474). THE RICO FAMILY DID.NOT SAY HOW LONG THEY SLANNED

TO REMAIN IN CUBA.

{INDEX FERNANDO. RICO AND GRACIELA sie DE RICO-TO
PISS ae
SECRET
BT

__ SP Rmrrrewerrncrrerperee rewire ee



llevs ol ox
3 pronte posdvie.Olgary:

eoDta y aa



berevitn for Heedquartere Antoriation and Fetantion oe

bad @ copy of the @ trohelatton,” done by LIENVoY, for LTR, or Vieter “RICO

ne Galen's contaste witn Conminio officials an Mexico, Fropared y Scatton, and
torvarded to Head

ATTACHMENT: Horewith ao staced

DISTRIBUEION:

-2--C/NHD w/att. b/w
2 - Pllas

P-7554
Boles SENT



Ns)

+ 82>. 256 con tectos. ‘con funetonarton fe b Enbojada Cuba: na, os
S tectonado: cen ki iSxicos

Inforzo sobro VICT;2 RICO GaLsi
22 Ce 1956

33 contectos con furedonartoa Tugocslavos seteictonodos en
60$ 5

31 “eontactos “con funetonartos coviéticon cots fe waist on”

inetenes cozuniste
CO GALA en un. pork
via de e2gs: contactos 800 Sovockace elenentss-, él oeryi-,
do inteligenciat

Keenté inviteciéa a recos~
ctén.

Reunirses ,

"Bud Enviteda'e lo celobrae
ciéa dcl 26 de julio..

4 ec. 30-2. 75f-

: Cette era @ RR. ur

HAAA- 0405,
27 Gi Cw



jo sta

"12 Sep. 61
kovortera de
tina.

20 abr. 62 PIOvR SASTLY!
7 + Exbajada Po:

“10° isy. 627

SA PROENSA ERO

4 Jul. 62 PIO F,SILUE

“14 Judd 62 muctor ata, ad
af ar “Prohea iotina.
“AL Sop. 63 ‘YoLanDA PaLictos, de

AB Seps 62-8

fona Latina,

» de
26 Sops 62

32 Sop. 62 lisbana vfa E.Yorks

1 Oct. 62 =DuUNDO IARDON, do

Prense Latina.

4 Oct. 62

22 Oct. 62 Tronsa Letina, © ~

_ Revista Sienpres

RICO recibirdg ineLtsetéa
psra-ir a Cub:

set ‘a. RICO aleta note-

RICO solicits. nateria do.
Cuba. para publicar

Discutionds. declaracién.
del. Dopto,de Estado iiorteas

“nericano en’el caso as Gi

Gestion 2do rounién éon el.
Enbojador CARLCS LECHUGA
Nova,

: 1
RICO aoliedt aque el. icba-.

i ‘jador LECHuca To do vico

pera ira Cubas

EDLUEDO: JARDON, 2
tina, diga cudndo
sale RICO a Cuba.

Discuten cl viaje do RICO
8 Cuba,

RIGO reeibié viea do cor
tesfa para ir a;Cube.’

ICO pide a
infordociéa

k



23 Cet.

‘15 Ene.
15 Feb.

18-Fob

25

24 Oct. .
13 Dice
20 Fébs

13 Nor. :

Mar.

" Preasa Letina

Revista Polfties

Enbafodor’ C
“CARLY:

Bienen SINOBAS C2L58DG6 -

: 23
Prensa Latina

‘RIGO co'cnésntr$ con 1
G4 en el Aeropuerto. ©

ro ed
Discuten sobre le Zovista
Shenpres.

Digcuton la firae de.un do-
cuzento para. el periéaico.

Flsnosn reunireé.

In OB! AS: CASADC™

Ploneah ‘Founiree.: eS

Flonean, reiinirse.

YURI x. ALEK

JOVAT umn RIC,
eta Prensa Yug socela
DANIUG.

Invita-a RICO a concer.

} CASADG.

RALON STHOBAS

AS CASADG.

BDO JARDOW



z
25. Lay. 63
25 May. 65. 8

INCBAS CA

26 Lay. 63
: zs days 83

“ Enbajad’.Cadsna.’

Consuledo Cubsno.

19 Jun. 63

evista Siengre.

YOLANDA PALICIOS, de:
Frensa" Latino.
2 Jul. 63 Ravoy Suoass CASSDO.
4 Jol. 65 RUC * src, 1S CA3ADO,

7 Jub.

X : a
29 Jul. 63 MIGUEL 3

HICO'reeibié. visa. dove com oF
tesfo pore ir-o Cuba. h

Ss
sobre. ol wie de RICO'a
Gute z|

el viaje de:

RICO: trajo Raterial para

Fronsa ta tina.
2

Rewiirgse. -

la ce=
él 25 & éo Julio

tre un eectel



Todas

% Sel. 6:

26. Jul. 6

. 1 cach. 63. RAIL ROA x 1, diplos
. Hético cubano.

5 Ag. 63. RAUL ROA KOURT.

<~ |  12 bgt. 63- RAUL ROA KOURI, Reunirse...
12-Sop. 63 BAUL ROA KOURT,- Reunirses.
29 Cot. 1 803% Entrevista.
15 fov. Peviirse.
23. Dice Reunirse.
16 Fé. Reunirse.
2l Ene. | RICO quicre’ ir a Cuba. *
“oh Enes. Charla.
enforio.

fo el viaje do |

+ 26 Ene. 64°° RA

2% Ene.

28 Ene, 64



2 avoid iy yo ob the

29 Febs64

3 akvised”

5. Feb. €4

1 Fob.64

RA

UL RON i

16 Mor.64 “IE3:

3 Abr, 64
10 sbrida
15 dbr.64

27 abe.G4
27 abesb4
28 xbriss

4 Loyd

1 Cubase

AvSaéedolé. aa 6s 39 de:
RICO cus, Hees oer oe go

Cubes ss

Rounirse.- °

- Charla.

Chorlas

: Rourfrse. :

Rountrses

‘Plonoan founirses

Reunirse.

Invitocisa a la comida del
ojadore

an sotre la borrecher:
9 con lin dncividuo,

cunirse. é



sive

Lay 64,

1B Voy 664

18 ay.64

19. Ley.64
19 Moy 664
19 Lay .64

21 May 64
el Loy .64

30 Loy 64
1 Jun,64

10 Jun.64

12 Jan54

13 Jun.S4

16 Jun.c4

HEBERT TORTIE
IAUL PEeyna.

JACINTO VAZQUEZ DE IA
Gaksas-cnd.Cudana,:

PIGH CiHaiG.

RAUL ROA ROURT A.

‘Chorlo.
“Ghrla.”

Rounirse,

Rounirse, °°

Rountree.

Reunirse.

Reunivses |”

Rounirces

Eeunlise.



3 Jul.64

20 Jul.64

13 Jul.64
2 Jul.64
3) dut.64
31 Jul.64
3 Acts

LL agt.64

17 Agt.64

"20 igh.4

26 agt.cs i
2 Sen.64

10 Sop.64 1

thidta etes oveg

Flaneundo reunirso.

Hounirse: -

Diccuticado publieseioness

‘cundroo.

Deun: 720.

RICO. coheure r$a 34 dood
pedidy da iiSTLUK en lo
enbojada Poleca.

PICO pioporetons: diiésita: :
y tel 0. do log chinow:” :
conuntstag,

Hountraos:

Founirsos

Cherla,

Rountrac,

Reunlyse,



23 -0ct.64

31 0ct.64 Rountree,

2 Kov.64 Reunirse.

5. Vov.64 Reuniise. . :
21C0 envfa ensajo a Cuba.

T. Yov.64
10 Nov.64 _ Reunirse. aut
a i:
Al Hov.64 Reunirse. fe
. 16 ilov.64 1
: 22: Hov.64 ol,
is fr
30 Nov.64. 20.2ur ;
8° Dic.64 +
12 Die.64~ SULTAN y LOPs2 Die2 envia 2 nIco 2. |
B/or-Srio., orreglo floral. por eniver= i
sa.y Cultura. sSerdo cu ttrinonio. i
14:Dic.64 i Reunirsa.
22 Dic.64 Reunirse. i
23 Dic.d4 Rounizse, :
23 Dic.o4 Reunirec. :
78 Bre. 65 RICO lwat$ de rountrce :
: cor 61, i
é Ricd tr tb de ountree
: con él.
10 Ene.65 RICO teats de S reniece
con fh, ian
: ‘



Faia yt iooincs uNstte g

11 Ene.65
17 Eno.65
13 Eno.65
10 Ene.65
20 Ene.65
2126.65
27 Eno .65
20 Eno.65
12 lier 665

17 tar.65

© a5 Yar.65

_ 20 Kor .65

12 Abr.65

13 Abr.65

OIDRION NOvICEY.

ROGELIO HODAICIEZ Lo-
PES

unirses
EOUnET Ge,
Corer juntos.

Reunirso. ‘-

Keunirso.

Charlo. ©

URewirso.

Cherles.

Charla.

Reunirso.

Reunirse.

iendo beéas.pora



eCunirsd's

nb rses

13 Abr .65
13 Abr.65

Hounirae.

RICO trata do’ rounirse
Gon ble

Charlo: -

13 abr.65

‘Y4 tbe.65 Fa
19 hve. 65
"20 abe.65
220 Abpe65 * JOYA IIEIC. |. Coace Sante
“20-abr.65. Joyali inte;

1) sIs0Bi$ ASG. Aounirse.

1 prsés J
23. Abr.65

25° Abe. 65

Rouliizge.

26 obr.65. JU: Rotniises
1 Feb.65
2 Feb,65

P2b.65

LOrEZ. RICO trata do reunirse.

- 21 Peb.65
© 12 Feb.63

16 Peh.65

CaS.30, | Reunirso,



i
i
i

“27 Feb.65 RCFILIO RoaRIG

Reunhrae. |

24 Feb.65
25 Fob,63

25 ¥ob.65

25 Feh.65

28 Fed.65  ROCLLIO RoUzIGUE Reinirae.
28 Pev.65 Jeunirsc.
L Reunirses

Keunirzes

t
ia
i
f



29 abr.65
20: Aurs65”

29 itrs65

29 sbr.65
30. sbr.65

~Sorresvonsal. ”
S en Lezico.

JovaN LIIC,
IOVS

SOVAN ETRIC.

Rounisse.

: Rounirse.

: sobre ba Rept=’
Bh a Sonistdcant ‘ ”

ierdo: sobre ta Ro=
nini¢ona.

Chevle.

Pouniawe.

Reunirse.

 trajo a RICO un libro
is Cue. |

Reunirses

Sef



Retnirces

Reunirce.

Rev:

2 juntes.”

heuntrsee

diemiirse encase Ge 2

=

Heunirse.

Reste
Rept

10 May.65

VW foy.65

3
°
8
4

15 Hey .65

Rounirse,

Sherla,



Greten de reuniree.. »

25 Loy.65 1% Droten de réunirses

25 Bay 65 fraten do reuntrees

25. Loy.65 Eeunirse.”

Pe

mirces

Reunirse,

Tratan do rewairce.

:
a


- 29 Jua.6s > i.

“31 ganics.

“2B. -Juns65

oy

18 Jen.05

ten do re

19 Jun.65

SINCEAS 04

2h Jin.65, Svaten de rouniraas

SAO. tretan de reuntrec.’

22 Jun.65 draten de rounirsos.

Reunirse:

Rountree.

plonean Yvounirse.

Pounirse.

29. Jw1.65

23 Sun.65

uniine. ©

39 dui.65 TEs Cherle,

35 Jun.65 3 SOA Hoke  Reunirso.

“3% Rountree.
5 Reunirce,.

Ow

Hf 28 103.9 CASABO. “Vesita o RICO’ en SU C2SDy,



eS ne Re weme inprmene

26, Jul.65

30 Jule65

BE Jul .65”

7 agte6s

17 agtsé5~ 3

24 ct. 65
24 igt.o5
25 gt.65
BL Agt.65

5 Oct.é5

12 Cot.65

163 02 edsa do SiKgs

Ding

Dhig.

39-2 une re
iv or: La snbajadas



j
i

i

16

27 0

3

Sot£5

Dav.65

bi

Die.65-

Dte.65.

Tne.26

065

Ene.£6

| JOST
= N06

ALPREDO at » ented

ce rogresor a Cubs.
Jose: LUIS

JOSTFING:

‘treten de réunirse

pindda de ‘
res. Trdcoantts
reunireds

reunirsé,

Tratan do reunires,.

Lo postror$.2 R100 Ice, fou"
tes Euloto ‘contra el
cringos. woe

rootbis corte. de
Cuba, conde eszerad™a RICO
urcenterentes

Jo. reunirses

el -vinje de RICO
do ertfeatos. on.
ae RICO



RAUL Pu

NoreSS EON Be

1idvo en eé2o de FICO.

traton’ dy. réundrse,

Proten ce reuntrse.

Hetinirsa. en Tespleo

reunizec.
de reundisce,
reunirze.
eaten ad

Traten

SIO Intita « Goats
dosayuicr,



charset

"Puls

Agt.6



” Sentet, mM Diviston

snag Vict G
Stationh ‘Moxico

1. Tho attached is a listing from Station records of 337.
Known contacts of Victor RICO Galan with officials of tho
Cuban (256), Yugoslav (33)., Soviet (31), Chinese ‘Communist. (7),
Polish (6) and Czechoslovakian (4): Anutallations: to Mexico icity.

2. This list (without sources ag listed in thi Aight of
onch page) was’ sent to LIRAMA“in reply.:to hin porsona: roquost, :
‘LIENY. yY will translate thia’- sate. Span eh. for tna. 7

3... A eopy of the. Cover (vind) Menoeanduh which will ve
.put into Spanish. (by LIEKVOY) is also: attaches.

Nitedle if le

Attachniont:
As stated above

Distribution:
2 = C/WUD w/atts (1 cy ea.)

HYMA-30355

Erector

“SECRET



21 October 1955

SUBJECT: . Victor. RICO Galan

fron 16 January 1987 through 42 August
ig known to-hove. had.

ic
1966, Victor. RICO Ga

a): .286 conta
stationed in Mexico,

b)- 39° contaate wath Tageolev officials statdonod
in Heico; E

6 with. Caban ubosay orttete ls

.e) 3 Sontaere saath Bovter officials ‘ptation ;
in Mexico} 3
“ft 4) 7 contacts vith Chinces Consunista: atationes :
4 2. de Bexeos
: sO): -6 contests vith Polish Rabassy officinia
‘| in Bexico;
i 2) 4 contects with Czechoslovakian officials in
Wexzico. ae

| This reprenoate a total of 337 contacts with offiediais

of these (Cosmuniat) sastalistions. bz Victor: RICO Galan;

{ : 327. of. those. Contnaets cero nade ia Joss then 2 four (4) yosr
period. of tine. Heat of tho parsons contactdd by Victor

RICO Galan so show on the diteched list ara known Ante? ligense.

jen officers. Ee H

fe Bietribution:

5 Orig = LIRAHA (via LIBNVOY/2) w/att
‘ 2 =.P=7384 -v/att.

1 + 3634

l= 50-6-75/2
4) ngs

cs copy

PAT ve AmMn 30350



{9 audy 59

2 guty 61

JHO-ApE. 62

(M4 guna 62

46 gan. ST
i \

122 Juno 60

120 may 62

Aap Va ae
SOURCE

Soviet, Babasay. ot “Aoceptod tovitation to Lorat/:

i: Raogp: ton i LISERICK

Moving -, a i LIS: |
Polish ‘Lagation ‘(Pra : - eres z i
Propaganda 8aetion’ — 7 . -
Aleksandor HEKIER, Counselor Arranged to introduce BEKIBR to moa 15203
Polish Rubdady- Carlo coccroLr : :
Terooa PRORRZA Prooats (ot - Tavliad to 26 ity 61 colebra-  LIENVoY-
Cutan Bmbaosy’ = Cultural Attache tica
Proylan:€. MARJARNGZ HanJarrez’ SutJoct pave, deapiiaa for > | LIEWVoY =

Leftiat novapapamen going to

(Franca lating. » Foportar)

Prague ‘and Moasov" :
Photr WASILUK (of Polish Babasoy): ‘To attend dinner. arty ‘given dy. -LIBRVOY’

Aleksdndoy Eeicteit
Subjoot vill réeaive Anvitatdon’ LIRhVvoY
i: vo Cuba ‘
Teresa FRCERZA Proanta |. © “Suyyaat was reoomenddd to Lizwoy

Antascedor Carlos LECHUGA Tavia HM 6485
for wrip to Cuba <

Piotr UASILUK W112 gerd Subject sor cas ‘orial LIENVOY

Snovor AMAA (of Pronsq Latina) — Gubjoot requects cavartal frod Lignvoy ©
Habana for publication in Stoapre,

Yolarda PALACION (of Prodea Diocuscing atarement woud wy — LIBAVOY
Latina) U.S. Department of Be 8 oR .
cass of Cuba
Fernando BEVUSLIA (of Cutan Arranging seating with Aatassador LIRNVOY.
Euvagsy) Carlos LECIUCA Revia
Ans Maria HLABCO (of Cuban Subject requacts viga for Cube  LIZNVOY
Enbasoy) Fron Amb. Carles “LECHTIOA Hovta
Ratana via New York Asia Bdmondo JAnDOr {of Cuban LBvor
Rabosay) vlan Subjact voald go
10 Cuba

Edcundo JARDO (of Cuban Bulinssy)° Discuss duoject's trip to Cuba LIBNVOY

Subjoo: recotved courtesy viaa — LITAMTL«7.
2O go to Cuta é

Prt ts Amma Beye sect 2EP-3369 7S



Fea

PLP ue

DATE
22 Oct. 62

2h ost. 62

|] 28 Oot. 62

‘| 15 Jon, 65
15: Fev. 63) -

| 28 Pe. 65

28 Fob. 63
13 Mar. 63
25 Har. 63

26 Har. 63
29 Mar. SS
20 Mar. 63
2h apr. 63

26 Apr. 53
29 Apt. 5
23 Moy 53

23 Hay 63
25 May 63

Amb: Carlos LECHVGA Bevin

Ramon, SIxOBA' Gatiada (c i
~-of Cuban Batassy): Sea

Soul ALVAREZ, (or Fronsa Tatts) :

Ragen SDNOBAS ‘Casada

Rason SIVOBA3 Caseda

Yarly Ke ALENGANDROV (Pirat
Searatary of Soviet Bnbasiy)

Yurly X. ALBKSATDROV
Jovna MIRIC (Hopreventative of
Yugoslav Presa Agency PARJUS)

“Ranion STORMS Cazada

Raaon SINOMS Cosada
Bacon SIRS Canada

Hace JARDON

Raroa SDOBAS Casada
Ramen STGULAS Casada

REASON FOR Cowract

Bro:ter of Subjoot calle
Edeindo JARDON asking for Lnfo
Subject -

JANDOH for nova of Bubjost

“mother oalls Edeundo
JARDOS Cor. owe of Subjeat

Basundé JARDON tells Manuel
KARGUBPordinas that. Subjeot |
will return next" week"

SatJoct sot LECHUOA et airport

_ Dineusi ing Btanpre magazine

Discussing ‘igning dsouinnt for.
newspaper

Arranging oeoting
‘Arranging imoting
Arranging mesting
ALENSAHDNOV invites Sudbjeot
Tor dine

Hees ing

Yhating vith, ST0BAT and.
Jovan MERIC

Attoadsd dioner at Yugeslay
Bobasey

Cuattor

“pya ting

Disoust Gudjesct*e urip co Cubar
Subject dovliad to meet with.
Fide) CASTRO

wroting

Discuss trip to Cube

SECRET

“LIBNVOY

i
1
i

LIBNVGY.

LIBNVOY

Lrenyor

Lieuvoy

LiBivor

Lignvor

LIZ VOT
LIENVOY

LTBNVOY,

LIsivey
LIBHVUL



lowe
2 Yay 69°

_ [2 sino 63
June 63

9 Sune. 65

say’ 69
July 63
July 63

2 duly 65
i
yy duty 63

16 Judy 65
I

Aug. 63,

contac .
Rada, SIROBAS Casado

Yolanda PALMZ103 of ‘Pronoa
Latina (Protay E

Raion STROAAS- Canada|
Rancn SIRORAY Cazada

Joss Migial eeausien, Roa
(Prose Attasts of Cutan Bobasay)

Josa Mle:

Lula AM@d (Culraral Atisons of
Ctiban Bavdasy), Mili redo GONZALES
(Cuan Vs69 Conzui, Peantee),
esa Lulo MiLTRs (Prooident of
Josa vars! ‘wostay)

Bash ROA Kourt (Catac’ Diplomat)

BBASON POR CONTACT SOURCE

Proving en LIREVOY
ubjaot, 19081 ved sourtesy visa LITAMIL/T:
fo Cala, mae

LIERVOY.

Sunjoct'e't trip to Cate,
Ingo RICO (vife.of Subjeot) talks. LIENVOY

MAth Ranoa | ‘SINODAS. Caseda about
Subjeot's trip. ¢0.Cuba

JBanon BIIOBAS Casada’ valke ‘teh
Jono PACES mi) (Director
Stoapre ‘ragazine) about Subseo
‘trkp to. Cul : ;
Liznvor=

Sudseot broight talertal for"
Prela; quae

Rreting
Heating

Dinciisding party-yiven wy Razon
SINOBAS: Canada,

Sudyept, atraded Baeaption at
cuban Robassy

Subject ViLb ie Speaker at

ey July celonration at Tampico DARKER,
Bis tig party Gb C*eoh Ligayvey
gatqoay :

AML on apdszers stand, with LHERGO
Sudject, rar 25 July. spreones Hy
at airport

Bariqua OGmAREZ Pedrovo . LIBNVGY
{eriter.for Folitfoa: magazine)

diasusees vith Guojeat, Ue naw
+ kesat lon of Mestcan-Cubean

Sultarel [n2-ttute in Morita

Plscwstag Gudjact*a trig to LIBRYOY

Forks

SECRET

LIBHVOE.

Lignvor

Gen Litante/9



iz aug. (>)

12 Sapi. 63

39 Oot. 65

“Is wees 69

23 Deo. 65
16 Jan, 64>
2k Jan. 6h

24 dan. 68
26 gain. 4

23: Jan. Sh

23 Jan. 6%

3 mp. oh

Li Foo. 64
1G Feu. Sh
a7 Nd, oh

29 Fer, &
1S Mare 64
Ag tas,
20 Bar, 6b
Bar. A
£0 Kar. &
@ Apr. 64

“Baia “ROA: Rout

comnact.
Baul RA at
fant ROA’ Kouirt ©

Marco Antonto. YON Boda:
(Commander of. 13. Hovenber nove~
mont + Quatemalan cooredle:
organisation):

Jooa Miguel. Femur, Rea.”

Jove. Miguel FSRTANDEY Roa:
Bdaando: JARDOU

Raul FERYANISY. Rea of Cutan
Eabdsey

. Raul. FRIANDEZ Roa

Raul: FERUANDBZ Ros.

Raal FERNANDEZ Rea

Branko KILIJANOVIC (Firat
Sacrotary of Yugoolay Embassy)

Howl PRiBYRA Geren! at Cunan
Baransy)

Baberto JORRIN Hufloz (Racepiton-

det, Gatamopar'at Cuban Bubassy).

Heborto JORRI Nvloz

Raul ROA Kourd
Reperto JORRTY Muitos
Hoberte JORKIH Mulloe
Raa) POA Koart

Baul RA Kourd

Raul FESRASDE: aca
Bdowdo JARDGT

Heating

Neetiag

Subjeot wints to go vo Cuba

chatter (Contact to 121)

Discusetag Subjeot’s trip to
cuba :

* wpotinag

Subject lot: for Cubs with
Cutan Courtesy. visa

Sudject sends wsaras to
Pamiantan lef iata

Diavuae Subootte trip ta ©
Advising Bubjeotta ula lntton
arrived tren Cuba

advising Subjects wits letter
arrived fron Cho

Heattas
Chdztar  ”
enateas
Meeting
eotiag
Metiag

SECRET Disowa seve fon Brasil

LIBNYOY-

LTRNVOY |

‘LIERYOY

PACY
azeh

Lumiivoy |

OY

LIERVOY |

LIEHVOY !

Lrenvoy

LIgvoy

LIBNYOY

LIBNVOY

LIRnVor |

LIgAvor

LIRnvor |



BATS
3 Apr.

> Apes 6
10 Apr. 64
45 Apr. 6
22 Apr. &.

21 Apes &

21 Apes
28 Apr.
4 may 6%
9 Way 6b
2D Nay 64
ae hay 6
16. Kay 6
1G tay
19 ay 6h
19 Kay oh

Ly Hay 6

eh Nay 6 >

-@l May &&

30 Bay 6
A Juno 64

30 Juno Ale

Bdmanfo SARDOS
foul FRAUD, Roa
Pail BOA Kourd

Cutan. Aatanoodor Joaquis
HRSMANTRZ Axons

Baud “BOA. Kourd

Row) FRREANDGZ Hos
Raul PRIOUDEZ, fos

Baul ROA. Kourt

‘Aad. Joaquin MBRUANTISE Areas
Heil FERIARIZZ Res.

paul £04 Zork

Beal ROA’ Kourt

foul FERNANDEZ Roa
Haterto JORATY Hurloz
Raul TEEBIRA

Jooiato VAZCURZ do ln Garza
(of tha Cuban Brbasgy.

CRG

Utholay dereayevich

e..

RRASON Pol. CONTACT.
Chait. tor

ying ‘to orange nothin.

Mooting,

“Hiviuauted to ‘asbencasor’,
dinner *

Diooussing Subject carting
drunk with unidentified Pols

coma tang

Mooring

“Wasting 7

Chattor.

Msating

Bicousn Hotena radio broadcast °

Chattor

Latter for Subject in Cutan
Butaney

Chatter
Chatter
Meetiag

Moeting,

‘Hoottns.

(Second Bsorevary of Boviat Bavacsy)”

or ol Bere

Pra cnfang (Dt:
China evs Agency

PIR Ca"éng
Baal SOA Rout

Ast, Joaquin BRMHAHDSZ Arcas

Inyitad Subject to Ghina.

bigeving

Arranping, cweting with Amb.
Joaquin KRRVAMDRZ Aras

Keecing

SECRET

LIBRVOY,

LIBYUVCY

samuvod

LIBNVOY,

LIBWVOY
LIND

LIrear
LIBNVOY
|

uusvol

: a2 :
LIRMVO! ee


pare
12 Juno 64

43 Juno 6
16 gune 64

16 June 6%

Bday &

20 guy
July &.
a1 July 6
32 duly. 6

BL July 6h

3S Aug, 64
11 Aug. 64

UT Avg, 64

20 Aug. 6h
26 Aug. 6
2 Bape, 6%

10.Sept. 64

15 Bepi, 64

XE Sept. OF
23 Oct, So

CONTACT

Borie Alaksandrovich KAZAUTSRV a

(Soviow Hintavar’ Counselor)

* Raul eniama: Roa’

Aub, Joaquis mimouncez Arwas *

Baul FERUMIRE Bos.

Raul APARIGIO Nopalas (cuban,
Cultural Attacks

Saotato VAZQUEZ de 1 casa
Phour WASILUK -

Rawk APARICIO Nogales

pail. FRAAHDEZ Roa

Plowr WASILUK

Roul FERNANRZ itoa

Ivan Gavrilovich ALFE/ORY
(of Bovie: Exbasay - Pruvla
sorseayandent)

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez (Saoond
Bacretary of Cuban Embassy)

Rogwdo ROORTCUR Lopez
finul FERUAIDS2 Boa
Oldrich MOVICIa: (cadena

Seoretary and Pres Attaats
of Czgen Bitasdy)

Arsando HART (Hinister of
Education, Cuban Babassy)

Asb, Joaquin HERWUDS2Z Arzas

Disouseing publications

Rooting
Trying to arranyo meting

Maat ing a

Meeting

Footing :
Subjeot will atlend ‘WASILUK'S

soe |
Liewvor;

Ligwvor

” uaenvor!”

deépedidaparty in Polton Embaady

Subject ‘gives address and
telaphona numer of Chinese
Commaniata

Invites Gubjact to dinner

Nesring

saat tag
Caatcer
Heating —

ida SUAKEZ Lopox (of Slosipro
mayacine).acks juboatr BLAZIK
(eacord Saorerary and Coieul:
of Czach Babasay) to Lavite
Budject to racepticn. BLAZIK
agrees,” ‘

Maating

Heoting

Rogalio aati vores SECRE FP? ting

i
LIBIYEL
Lremver,
uaeiniet

| 7

LIEWvoY

vase)

}
LIeHVOY,
sod


Dr
31 Oot. &
2 tor. 6»
5 How. 64
1 Mov. 6
10 Hov. &
‘Ll ov. 6b
16 Bov. 6%
22 tov. &
20 Hove 6%
& Die. 64
12 Deo. Oa
Us Bao. 6
22 Deo, 6
23 Dao. 64
22 Ine. Gh

2odan. 65

& Jan,
10 Jan. 65
Ls Jan, 63
Li Jon. 65
18 Jon. 65
16 Jan, 45:
20 Jan,
21 Jan, 65
27 Jan. 65

vr xe sta
A728 aan. 05

coeace

Rogei10 RODRIGUEZ Lopss
Rogel1o RODRIGUEZ Lopez:
Ramon SIROBAB Cosata -
Antonio CARAM (of Prénsa Latisia)
Ramon SINOBAS. Canada aaa:
Oldrich. HOVICKY'. :
Binundo. JARDOG :
Bamndo JARDOE nal
Edaundo, JARDGH

Ivan Savrilovich ALFORIEY

Jultan LOFEZ Diaz (thine Beoretary, Lorez Diaz sends aubtoce

Preso and Cultura) Atiaabs of
Cuban Rmbaosy)

Rogalio ROURIGUEZ Lopz
Ramon BINOBAS Casada
Racon SINOBAS Canata
Bamon GIHOBAS Casada

Henuel Bugento VEGA Parez
(Third Searotary Cutan Entaasy)

Manual Bugunio VEGA Parez
Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez
Rogel1o KODRIGUBZ Lopsz
Rogelto RUDRIGUEZ Logo
Kerel HANUD (Czech Ambassador)
Julian LOPEZ Diaz
Julian LOPRZ Dies
Odrloa Novick

Rovalio RODAIGUEZ Lopez
Beziss

Panon SIHOBAS Cassa SECRET Hoo ting

flower arrangement for vedding,
anniversary

Meeting
Mae Ling
Woocing
Heating

Subjact tried Lo arraney meeting

Subject trted to arrange eboting
Gubjavt tried Lo arringe weeting
Meeting

Subject tried to arranga meting
Lunch at HANUS' house

Heoting

Meeting

Dinner together

Meeting
ser s3ea7y

“LTENVOY,

LIBNVOY,

LIBNVoL

|
Lumnvor|
Lienvor

i BNVOY
LIENVOY

LIBNVOY



35 prs 65,
apr, 65
13 Apr. 65
15 Apr. 65

13 Apr. 65
Us Apr. 65

19 Apr, €5

20 Ayr. 65.
20 Apr. 65

20 Aprs 65
BL Apr. 63
23 Apr. 65

25 Apr. 5
26 Apr. 65

Avolarto CUREELO: Pad ron (1
Secretary. jonah = Cute

ale
Section, Cuban Braeay)
“Joven MIRIC
Jultan LOFEZ Dioe
Broy lan MANIARRAZ

Mariano OARCA (of Cubun Cénouinte
in Merida - viaiting Mexico City)

* Royaaldo CEPEDA lisrnander

Droylan MAYJARRAZ
Julian LOWGZ Diaz
Ranca 2TH0UA8 Casnda
Jovan vimnic

Jovan HIBIG ;

Julian LOFBZ Dies

Jovan HIRIC
Ranon SIHODAS Caseda
Julian LOPEZ Diaz

SECRET

Mooting:
Moorings
Wéo ting

Subject. triev to arranya nesting LIENVOY

Chatter
Meating-
Meeting
Rattng together,

Difiner together with Ramon
SDiOBAS' Casada

Mating,
Hooting
Yoeting
Wasting

- LIENvoy

LIFEAT

LIBWWor
‘

1
LivBat |
LUYBAT

LISBAT

LIBAT |



25 vob. 65,

26 Bob. 65
27 vob. 65

28 Fan. 65.

28 Peb. 65

1 Mar. 6

2 var, 65
2. Mave 65
3 har, 63
3 Har. 65
5 Mar. 65

‘9 'Max. 65

9 war. 65

li Mar, 65

ECRET

REAICH_POR: CONTACT

Bubjaot: tried to ariahie teeting

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez
Vamiel Eugenio VEGA Pore:
Rogel1o RODAMMIEZ Lopez.
Rogelio RODRIQUEZ Lopez,
Ranen STWOBAS Casada
Roglio, RODRIGUEZ Lopez

Bayfialdo CBPEDA Ha mandoz
(First Soon weary. Cuba “Embasay)

Sultan LOPEZ ‘Dini

Java, Tampico)"

Rogol1o RODRIOURZ Lopez

Reynaldo CEPEDA Hernandez

Beynalde CRPEDA Boruandon

Manvel Bugonio VEOA Porez

‘Baynaldo CEPRDA Horande
~SECR

* Dinner in subié £3 -hom

Moot this

‘Bubjoot tried ‘to arrange moting
Meoting.
Hooting —
Meeting
Masting
veattag.

Subject tried to-errango eseting
Subjost tetéd to aad POSADA

Foeting
Meeqiing
Meeting
Meeting
Mesting

BE



fo AE pi ag raepomgprsue

Jando FUNDGRA' (call from Cuba = Dideussing Dominican Republte
_ Radio ifabana) . “ ne seed

Orlando FUNDORA ~ Bodie Havana Disoussing Dominican Rapublia’

Ragon SIHOBAS Casada
Jovan MERIC

Rdmndo JARDOU

Jovan MERIC

Jovan mmic

Yolanda PALACIOS
Harto TARBIO (cuban)

Julian LOPEZ Dias
Jovan MIRIC

Chatter
iiating
Heating

, Didowseing Fidel CASTRO'S epadah
Meeting
eating’

: Baa ting
Browsht Leok trom Cuba for
Subject
Moa cing
Meeting

SECRET

LIFEAT.
LIENVor
LIENVOY
Linear |
LIFBAT
LIFRAT
LIFRaT
LIFRAG |
Lifer.
LIBRVOY,
LIFRAT |
LIFRAT



SIRT yan hay MUSA tnd

20 Hay 65
20 May 65
Qh tay
21 May 65
BL Hay 55
2) Bay 65
22 May 65

Bamana JARDON’ 7
Antonto CARAM (of Prensa. Latina)
Nikolay’ Bergayavien “LRGZOy

Mikolay Gergeyevich LEOFOY
Jovan MIRIC

Jovan HaIC

Bamon SIGORAS Casada

CRUNG Chis-on0 (Kew Clitna-Neve
Agenoy rupresen:ative in Mextoo)

Hikolay Sergayavich LEGHV. Moa ting
Nikolay Sergeyevioh LEONOV : Neoting
Bi¥olay Soresjevish Le0H0y- Hest ing
: Rogelio’ RODRIGURZ, Loyas footing :
Jovan: MIBIC cet Meeting
Hikolay Sergyevich L80TOV Meeting
Hikolay Sergeyevich LROYOV Mating

SECRET

., LIENvoy

LIFBAT

Liwivvor
LIBNVOY. |:
LIENVOY

LIFRAT:
Listiar.
Lirtar
‘ENVor}-
LIFRAT.
Lrrgar |
Lamar j
LIVBAT
LIFRAT
LIFBAT
LIFRAT



CONTACT.
_ Hikolay Serysyavich LEOBOV.*

3 dune 65 ‘yisdimir Agagonovich DOLGOY: °° LIBNVOY.
E ; (Pravda correspondent tn Mexics)
3 iio 65 iitieley serceyevien iwaidv. —thettag iia ca : LIFRAT
[> Jina 65 n Peters siating: Liveat
|. bs Sine 65 Jovan wana Z i Naottig Liveat :
4 June 65 Valoitin Ivanovich MUCHEROY Yooting Livgat
2A guna 65 Nikolay’ sanvoyovieh LEGHOY Moozing : oo LTARAr
2 June 65 * ‘Bayiimido evens Warnandaz _ Arranging moting a Lignvor
19 Juno. 65 ‘ | Meeting fs : LEEAT
it 20. Juno 65°. Woe ing te “7 ognewat |
i 20 Juna 65 co Mbetang. LIPRAT
21 dune 65 Reynaldo CEFEDA Barnandes ” Arranging meting Lipnvoy
| px gune €5 Ranon OIOBAS Casada Peccereameyr er LIgEVoY
22 June 65 PIBH chien, " Asranging aoting Limvor!
SECRET



:|-5 suly 65

“6 day 65
B'guly 63
9 duly 6
9 uly 6 ,

26 suly. 65
| 30 Judy 65
Bl July 65

| 2 Aug. 65
2h Aug. 65
ah Aug. 65
25 avy. 65
Sr aug. 65

20 guly 63°
Ql July 65

7 aug. 63." "

ted at Subject "s house:

Chatter

Hos ving

: iiostiag

—s

Heating”

Hooting
Hikaléy Sorgeyavich LEOHOV Nea ting
Reynaldo CRFRIA Hornandes Arranging ueeting
Ruynaldo CRFERA fernandez Will eat at Subject's hose
Bnmon SIROBAS Cazads Mesitng’ (at SINOBS*a house)
Julian LOFa2: Diss . Discuss LOPEZ'S trip to Merida,
Julien LOWEL Dias Hootings (4 tdose)
Baoni STORMS Cesada- + ~ Invites Subjeot ‘to Babasdy party
Ricon STHORS Cede Meitig :
Rancn BIVOSS Caseda Heating
Luis ABIEY Trying to arrange oneting
Bason STORAS Caaada Neo ting

Jose POSADA (ta Faxico Cliy fod Arranging nesting

lemideatl SECRET

ll



25 Hows. 65:

3. Dea: -65~

5 Doo, 65
16 Dec. &

27 Dac. 65

13 Jan. 66

ik Jan. 66
2h Jan. 66

2h Jan, 66
2T Jan. 66
27 Jan, 66

Q7 Jan, 65

Ramon 8 IH0BAS Cased: ' Arranging

J90e: POGADA: (Just -roturnsd from
Parc at rotums :

Alfrodo, Vila (of Hedio: Habana)

Alfredo GUBVABA (tafore ratuming Avreinging coating
to Cuba) :

Jose POSADA Arranging meting

Josafing (last nane usinowm = Arranging far Budjact to sea

Guban acegni). Ploturss Subject wanted about
2 7 i ‘tha mulatto oainot the gringo
Hilgwol Angel LOZAHO : Arranging meeting

Miguol Angel 1A2ATi0 (Pizs? Sec- Contact: recetved letter froa
retary of Cuban Pnbasay). Ject to go to Cuba

LIERVOY

LIENvoy i
LIRHVOY ;

Miguel Angal:- LOZANO He Arranging meeting LIBEVOY |
Carlos BASURTO Tajo Chavtor about Subjéct's trip to LyEuvor |
: Cuba, articles tn Stoopra j

a 7 i

Higuel Anga) LOZAHO Chatter avout Subjaot's crip to Lumar |
: : Cuba |

Boca RAPAJLOVIC (Ropreseniativo Chatter about Cuba Laenvor |
of Yugoslav Proos “ii Sec 68 Gury i
who replaced Jovan MIRIC ~ i
7 SECRET PTIEESTS S12 i

Are ye BAMA Ge55e



‘RT sen, 66

3

.
8
pe
&

Bosa, RAPASLOVIC
Miguol Angol Lozkno

Miguel Aiigol ‘Lozano

Nisied Angol Lozano
Joao poaaoa
Joo9 POSADA
HMigual Angel LOZANO

Higual Angel LOZANO

Nigual Ange) LozAio

| Jose’ PodAns”

Higuel Angel LOZAEO
Josa POSADA
Miguol Angel LOZASO
Jooe POSADA

Miguel Anco) LOZANO
Marlano GABCIA

SECRET

‘ances mooring,
“arransing aieting

Subse: te requsots vices tor thee
doctors to travel to.Cuba tee

chatter
Trying Lo arrangs miating
Avianitng a aosttig

Laayes book at Bubjeat's house

Arranging 8 mottag
Arranging a meeting

Heatiag in Tazpioo

Going to. LOZANO's hows
‘Try ing to arrange & saeting
Arranging a neeting :
Arranging a meting
Arrdnging a asoting

‘fryday to errans a weet ing
Arrangtiag a seoting
Arranging @ esotiog :

i. Arranging @ usetiag ta Subjeotte
Rouso 7

bIsnyvor

‘IBNvoY



2077 VIII
ANT TO Amman Beaye


gape

countey " Hoxteo _ BORO. €$-311/1h014-66

Super

-Nvee

nog B
eae

Union of Locol Boeicties of Collective’.

i
7 EE |
Eighth Regionoi Congress of, tha” DATE o1s1R 18 October 1966. fee a i
Fora Credit 40-66. 1n-Torreoa, Coohud te lo a re ead |

“austaureces

rt
: core Were Arnolds, Hart inex
encral Committee ‘and Agustin pecal

wember-of the PCH Central Cosoittes wio lives: ta the Terréon™

area, The main theme of the Cengreso vse the dim of the USCE 40-66 to i
Promote the nationalization of all privately heid agricultural Land 1a t
the Laguna area, It wants to divide olf land in the Laguna area into Hy
conzminal farms and completely do avay with seall private Land holding.
Martines oaid that the Mexican Covernnent wes trying to plot: againet. the
FCH and ‘gave ap an example the 12-13 ‘August 1966 arrest, of Victor fico;
Golon ond come 40 others of the Poplar fevoluttondry ‘Moveaent » (HAP-Hoviatento
Reveluctonario del Pueblo). He caid that the PCM did not eaj thi

arked ravolutionary policiea ef Galea, ao4 that the Party vas eet Hee:2

S$-B-C-2-2-7

sya

cINcsO é

dye en cared by

rorace

ULz-1)
S-311/16018-66°
serene setae

Ou, Pou:

eet waymce i
TE 2, CES, FL 3, CA 3, ORL an, Dafa a.



i
i

2.

aloo’ expressed ais. views of
Joint Weeks no. 22, dated’ 12 August 1966, trom the faericon Babosoy, ral

Mexico City): +

Field Comment: ALL of the sedbers of thie {SCE 40-66 Adeiniotretive
Counéfl ore aeeterad’ the FCM.

BeBC-A-BoT



ACTION msgurneD: None}. FYI

RICO detan;
affirmed 15 September 1966:.that’ Victor
ots. the Mexican: Journalist

Congress of the 14th..of dune Revolutionary:

2. Sifice at least one of the Bhotoginphis “attached: to
rence: appear’ -to be. an original clipping, thé photographs
were!’ reprod! for Station“indices and are- forward
i rters’ “retentions

‘Michael C, CHOADEN

Attactiment:
Photographs h/w

Distribution:

2- Chief, WHD w/att h/w +
1 - COS, Mexico City w/o att
26 Files w/o att

¢3 CON . zol- 33

Cotes HERR A RMD

HDCA~5679 11 October 1966

aA wah
*201-936474



PV

ie

Dees

GO75



CENTRAL INTENIGENC AGENCY

ioctl roatains tabceowtion sitreiing the Metnmai “Deloone of the Ueited:
Sea 'AY bed S84 the treaiolnion on tersiatiog of whkh Ta ear fu

SECRET/NO FOREIGN, DISSEM

COUNTRY Mexico/China | a atPoR NO. CS. 2311/13138-66

Susitct Contact by-Fernendo ico Colea DATE DISTR. 26. September 166
With ‘the Mexican Bocicty of oa besceer Beet
Friendship with People's Cotee: 1:
(Smacr). : fo ChE

4 ‘eerteences. eit

DATE OF 5 Septenber

“PLACES
DATE ACQ(¢

SouncE

,On.5 Se} tembor 1966,. Fe: sande % Rico 0 Galan; one of those ‘ar.
bile rat Tae aundup, of a n eroup of,
‘Cela yuh Us

¢ r ana de: Amistad con. China opulary
hold a Closed-door ceeting with Lute Torres ‘Ordonez ‘and

Juan Larios Tolentino, both officers of the BHACP, for an hour

fifteen mingtess “The: subject ‘matter of the discussion te

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEY : pat

Lmao
eee
js. EA 1 3138-66 J |

3 | eavimanain
a3; Bk!

a



CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY i

Delian of the Varad Stats witha the. wicaning of the foriossde Loins Fite
om at Ai Ye aur manses mw am anguiorited pera, 16 prehitited Wy lew.”

“ap spot eéatatan ttermation atfoing the N
AR USC Sera FRY end TH the trecumteine,

§-E-C-R-E-T

ROHN.” CS-321/25138-66 |
DATE OSL ” 28 Septeaber 1966
“No races “gsr! E

REFERENCES”

Countay Mexico

” suaecr Activities of the ‘Mexicon
Comauniot Lihia io
Leon

“The pieriim | Gt. tho: Contral Comitt tes of the Moxi¢an Comm niet.
“Party (PCM - Partido Comunista Mexicano) 2 take piace n :
- Mexico City ion 25, 26, ond: 27 September 1966, : a

. The Campesino Congress of Torroon was attondod by Oscar ¢ iajardo

Gutierrez of the Nuevo Leon Stato. Committee.” Guajardo. w:

romain. in | Torreon until 24 Auguat: to attend the national plenum
“of tho Independent Peasants’ Central (CCI = Central Campesina:

“ Independiente) which is being held Concurrently with tho See

* Gampesino: Congress,

“- $3, Lino Medina Salazar, in. hid capacity as netibor of tho Central _
4 Committee and member of tho National Trade Union ‘Commission, ete
. was in Monterrey from 17 to19 August to participato in a neeting
of the State Committee to discuss the Party's trade union
activities, because so little has been done in this field which
the Party has had difficulty in penetrating. It was apreed
: that the publication of Acciton Sindical, which has becn dormant
q for some timc, would be resumed ay an initial step in planning
4 «+ trado union activity and that a study of the labor ‘situation
PA liiats should be. uadertaken.' Medina, who was not pleased with the out-""
i

come of thectiecting, promised to return and to personally .follow
tho progress of the trade union progran since ho is the Central
Committee sembor responsible for supervising the activities of

ety) Party in Nupvo Loon,

|
H
H
!
i
H
|

S-E-C-R-5-T

retard
LIVACATE

(LavacaTs-2)
Cie 3L/1 31 3-6. |

Cerna Sc ried

QU TUHE a.



CIEE ene

and ropresontatives of tho PRI.

~ BoB=C-R-E-T
4 ; Saeae €3-311/13134-66

ting of.mei-vers of the Independent Central of Peoplo'sa:

izations.;clOP = Central Independiente de: Organizacitones :
Aiguat to. discuss plans. to-carry 7
n nupport of |.

iioncrs hi
‘becol

Tho campaign in. support of political. p
Mntil'25 Sept cr. ‘Tho situation ha

£ tho Ugalde-Rico Galan group:

With regard to.the national. meeting of. university: studonts, it
cannot bo said that it was successful ‘since, only. three: delos”
gations were present - those. from: Nucvo Leon, :
Jalisco, Arnoldo Martinez Verdupo,. Jose
Gaytan and: other: mowbers of. the: Party Presidium. were presen :
which suggests that .the Party attaches: ‘considerab importance:
to dts program for university action, This. “meot ing, was consid
to be; the first + tocbe followed ‘by others. It
within tho Party. ; 6 Leon State ‘Commi
jénced in waiverdity_mattore since. it organized ‘the Univers
of Nuevo Looy Union (STUNL ~ Sindicato de la Universidad de.
Nuevo .Leon).. f we 7 te i

With respoct to-the PCM's electoral campaign, ag
datés havo boen -ngreed upon, and tt 18 clear t
under consideration nono is of impressive.

Of interest aré the efforts of Porfirio Diaz,. head of tho National
Youth Institute dn Monterrey, who is departing from the Pu
lino in attempting to form a’ youth. group: in which the Institu~
tional Rovolutionary Party (PRI - government party) would parti~
cipate along with the “PCM and-other leftist organtzations.

Ding has held meotings attended by Octavio Leal Moncada of the
Clop, Javier Rojas Sandoval of tho PCH, Jose Tuis Sustaita of
the National Democratic Students’ Contral (CNED - Central
Neelonal do Estudiantes Pomocraticos), other members of the PCu,

yét-no-candi~ |
zi at ationg. those.”
tature, fae

1. ‘Headquarters Conmesits | Iaoue tiv. 1045, dated 28 Aum =.t 1966, of Lo. You de
idS GtTteiel newspaper uf the ACH,.reported tha: the.Union de Socledades
‘edito. Ejidal de ls Cowarco Logunera 194021965 (UECECL-1540-1966), heeded
warters at

de
by Arturo Orena Cadiz, held ito VIII Ordinary Congress in ite hea
Torreon, Coahuilo. Iseue fio. 166, dated“ September 1966, conto
article dated Torreon, Coahuila, August 1966, saying thot the nations] plenus
of the CCT had ‘resolved‘to disdesocy te itself from the National Liberstion
Movement. (MLN-Muvimfento de Liberacion. tacional), becouse of the dotter's

diviotoniat activities.

2. Source Comment: In fact, the STUNL vse not formed by the Perty since, when
Tt wae crennized, there vere no Communiste amoung the teachers end other
univeraity workers. “The unton came into belng ase result principolly of the
activities of @ group uf teachers from Freforotory School # . 1, end it hod
the support of the thei acting Rector, Alfonao Rangel Guerra, vho'sow in the
Yinton pooetbilities for creating probless for Eduardo Lives Villarresl, the
Governor of Nuevo Leon, It vos obnost 6 yeor later that Rolando Guzzan, Toone
Gonzalez de Luna, and Ruracio Salazar joined the FCM, but. their influence in
he unton cannot be ottributed to thie fact. The union hae continued ‘to extot

becouse 1t hos evinteined ite ectivities within legel bounds, deconding etnicun
ton ie Regligtble :

Gonzalez, om! Salasor, there ere only four-or five

vogee and ioproved working conditions. 10H influence in the un

eince, in edditicn to Gusren,
ther IA wendero, The poooibilitios of forming 8 national university union

+ Nould appear to be reaote, end 1t 10 dowtful that preceat plans tn this
direction will ever eatortelise,
: : i



mmeatlea of the i 4
rua sere Hi eshiited bY lowe

The marerial en alter
AQ RLSC Been Ted 00d 794 the treseaslnlon ov

“\SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

| CounrY Mexico 4 : RPORTNO, ——-CS-321/12962-66 ©
Suuect. Reaction to Sienpre! Hditoriel DATE DISTR. 26 Septeader 1966
On Victor fico Colaa : ; so oe : - -

NO: PAGES © 2

pare'or 2-6 Septenbe 1966 teat

ore Mexiéo, Mexico. City
DATE ACa.(7 September 1966)

titled "Mexico Xo'Eo
State), which reject
‘Mexican inotitutions “end concluded that deca!

1, Ingo do Rico Galan, wife of Sienpre! writer Victor Rico Galan,
said on Z September 1966° that her husband was resigning from
Siempre! because of the harsh ‘editorial Against him and his
Ticas which -appenred in the 7 September issue of the magazine.
Mes. Rico Galan said that the editorial was far harsher than
: even President Gustavo Diaz-Ordaz' , comments on the matter.
! wnich he included.in his I September Stato of the Union méasuge.

-NuUaw

CLS 0

VOY.
Lr:
i235 L/12562-
— mn
: (pods BBS

¥
ee a, coal ai re



-wone

has. assured ‘Rico that he will “publ.

If Sicmpro! refuses to publish her: busband's letter of reeige

nation, and she scened to feel that this’ might the case;

Manuel: Marcue Pardinas,of.-tho , leftint, zine Politiens
“at :

‘Wanjarrez penatked: that. Sfenprot. pubidener Je e Pages Ll Bo”

badly- is handling of. the Rico

2... Heddginrtera ‘Coesent: Fea Bepte ster 1566, Loeue. of. Bisbee care ea
d letter to tae editor vritven by Rico, Calon, in which be expres
intenee diopleasure wit the publication's editorial of the. prev
weeks He asked, that Bhevore consider withdrals

collaborating with it cn a book section, ‘saying that he’ would ‘seek meena:
of Support: for es foi “his confineaent, that they my live in
6 warner wort: Goliderity, not from elas grontod by
evil consciences tees ecerious tranquility. In @ note. of reply
Siempre reiversted ito ciesérecuient vith Aico Galan'é viewpoints bud ©
Sdded that it cleined weitier to qualify nor te Judge the personal
conduct of a friend with vhoa the cagazine woo persanently bound.

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSE

(one ee



vases

SRR a Key

seit

Dissem pay S217.

Ber

ack COPY,

fame

Si cR E T.2izooat CITE $a0 PAWO. 7146
NEKIGO CITY. INFO DIRECT ORs R10 DE JANEIRO

PSYCH ICO GALAN CONSPIRACY
US TIS, )

REF WEXiCO CITY 8416. ¢/ A ey
ALWALT¢=2 EDITOR LAL’ OWGALAN CASE/ APPEARED | IN 2l

SEPTEMBER EDIT.1ON "DIARTO D FiO.” HN ILING CLIPS. eS
iG plciace tien iain ae : fa :
BT eerie 7 # Fvever sion case,
“CRer
NOAH

Mle ble

2e6



ihe emeening of the Eaptonsae Lawe Title wi
ethéelead arias la probibited by tw,

" SECRET/NO_ FOREIGN DISSEM
RPORT NO, G5-311/12488-66

COUNTRY Mexico/Quatemole
DATE OISIR.. §- 15 September 1966.

SuBiECT . Reaction of Guotemolen Exile
Leader in Mexico to thé.
Arrest of Viotor Rico Galan

NO. PAGES. 2. - aera

REFERENCES

oat of | 1B August 1966 0° ; :
oat : : Sant eee
MACE 8. Nexteo, Mexico hey : = ito RPO 66:

DATE ACQ.
Wiis 19 UNEVALUATED_inrOnwatiOn: SOUGCE OHAGINGD Act OUFIAGTIVE AyPAAIAAL OF. CONTENT 1B YEMTATIVE, 7

Rolando Collado Ardon, leader of the Guatemalan exile Cofinuat ty.
in Mexico and-a member. of the Guatemalan Communist Party (PGT =
Partido Guatemalteco dol. Trabajo); satd. that. the. arrest “of.”
ie Vietor Rico Galan. on chargos of subversion was a good thing.
for the PGT. “Collado was referring to Rico Galan's inf
on Guatomalan guerrilla leader Marco Antonio, Yon Sosa.. AC:
to Collado, Rico Galan prevented the PGT from persuading: Ye
vs Sosa to join the Party in 1963 because of Rico's. Trotskyist
fae interferenco, and the ‘aid he gave to Yon Sosa at the timo,

7 2, Medical doctors Miguel Cruz Ruiz and, Rolf Moiner Muebner, two
of those arrested with Rico Galan, have becn associated with
az Rico since early 1965, Both were very mich involved in ‘the
ee medical doctors’ strikes.of laté.1964. which continued into 1965,
fe When the strikes were finally settled both Cruz Ruiz and Méiner
Heubner wore dismissed from their jobs at the Social Security
Hospital at Cuauhtemoc 330. They went directly to Rico Galan
. who put them to work, mainly writing medical ftticles for the
magazine Sucesos for which Rico Galan worked?
rt Rico Galan sent ‘both Cruz Ruiz afid Meiner Huebnor to Cuba
fe in 1965. and both are well indoctrinated Communists - However,
"neither belongs to any Communist Party ov organization. Both,
as woll as Dr, Jorge Velez Trejo, also very active during the
medical strikes, havo traveled through Latin American making

=Neaa

5
te 4
3
2
i 1
~ =SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM q
L is

ore gf

w/2/ jut i:
rore® rE 2, CLM, FI 3, CA 2, WH 7 (1), DOH 1.



SECRET/NO. FOREIGN DISSEH
Ss: 5 -j/A88-66

 Edea Coamerite”

Yon -oetavier-Novetber 963, Rico Goien;cotenait hy. i ly:
exercise, vent to Guatenele where he interviewed. oa | ‘Sosa in the guerrille
“leader's caup. .

nd the. VIE. Natiorial Stomatology. Congre: b:
it hod: names of others

hy mes



CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

 meanion of the Reclonaes Laws, Tite
teuthericed seven Ww pected be Mew.

14. the Neilonet Defense of the United States witht

ston of Favelation of which in aay manner

This material contains Information
18 UBC Boca 703 ond 704. the ts

SECRET/NO FORBIGN DISSEN .

eet
> COUNTaY. Mexico REPORT NO. CS~311/12430-66 ;

" * sussict Mexican Comiuniet Party DATE DISTR. 13 Septeader 1966

A meee Views on. Recent, Arrest: a fierane te fc :
= } Of Subversive Group . NO. PAGES 2 H
é 4 esa : ae

: 5 _ REFERENCES

E pnteor (24 Auguat 1966.
f Mexico, Mexico City
6_Aurust_1¢

PLACES.
DATE ACQ.

ony 1S TERTAIWVE,

Twi8 19 UNEVALUATED infonwation. SOUNCE GaADINGS act OCFiniTiVe APPRAISAL OF €¢

ifauart 2 a i

1. At a meeting of leaders of the Mexican ComministsParty (PCM -
Partido Comunista’ Mexfeano);, attended by Arnoldg Martinez - _
Verdugo, Fernando..Granados Cortes, Manuel Terrag Guerrero, :

‘ Zana, and Narces | jeonel Pogatas Ségura,

¥ scussion-of the status of members of the

_broup, headed by Victor Rico Galan and Raul Ugalde Alvarez,

which was recently arrested for engaging in subversive activi

ties, It was. revealed at this nceting that Ugalde had. submitted
an application for membership in the PCM but that he had not

: been accepted,’ He is not; therefore, considered to be a

i member of the Party. The same is truo-of Guillermo Balan

7 Pereyra, It is true that Vensncio Garay Zuniga and Artcinio

Garay Zuniga are PCM members, but they aligned themselves '

With the Rico Galan “guerrilla” group on instructions from :

the Party to serve as spicg in order to keep the Party informed

on’ the group's activities, :

2, At a meeting of the Permanent Committee of the National Assembly
for the Freedom of Political Prisoners, Filomeno Nata Alatorre
stated that ho was completely rémoved from the subversive
group.and that he had had nothing whatsocver to do with it.
Guillermo.Caldoron Ita-taised the question of the most recent

: . group of prisoners (thé:-Rico Galan group), and it was agreed

H that that group had chosén the easy path - that of taking up
arms; that sucha movement would come about eventually, but

7 ’ that now-ia not the time; there is.no chance for success of on

armed movenent. It was agreed that even though the Committce

SECRET/NO . FOREIGN DISSEM

CINCSO-#-.
Fahd Gativation indicated By

I} (LIT3°0-12)
j1S 232

Carson



‘ i . SECRET/SO: FOREIGN’ DISSEM
peers : -2- €3-311/12430-66

: | : was not in accord with the tactics, or,even the ideolory,
| of tho. Rico Galan group, the latter group should be. defended
a Het in the samo y as aro other political prisoners.- The Rico

Galan ‘group.

ayers used ie the:‘Conmitte

1. Witte ‘there: does’ not appear to be any fina evidence. of. valde
eee Ge membership. in the PCM, his sctivities a0 a leading’t:
: 49 Electoral Front (¥2P-Preate Electoral -del Pane) whieh
beet, weld reported. on |

46 controled by: the: POM,

2. Th a Gocunént ‘eéLzed ‘by Mexican police during 6 reid on "POM
headquarters on 12°April°145, Dr. Boluis.Peréyra: vas. Listed’ oe -
ial] a membér-of the Dr. Angel Martinez Villarreal. cell, navn Joined :

the: Party in August 1964. i

3 According tO. the Mexico City, ‘ouiy, El Dio, of 30 \ugust i966, the i
office’of the Attorney General “for the Fodgrel-Distriet protested ape
ogainst ‘the action of a Federal Dist¥ict judge in releaging ‘the. : Hy

Goray Zuniga brothers froa custody on 22 Auguats : i

t
A

i SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

$
4
“3
2
‘

“eee



“SECRET. O FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY = Mexico ‘ : _. REPORT NO," CS -321/12432-66

supitct. " Financial Aid to re OATE CSTR: 23° September 1966 =
Victor Ki¢o Gélen ae
i cares pris) eA 7 NO. PAGES | ans

Lt REFERENCES" ae

26 Auguat 1966°~. DE ak esac aga seeaeeeneaet
Moxico, Mextco City : . :
29: Auiunt 1966) |:

“FIELD REPORT: NO:
of

1, Acéording to Inge “de Rico : wife of Victor Rico. Galan whe
was arrested 6n 12°Adgust and who has beon charged with conspir-
ing against. tho’ Mexican Governmont,:-her husband is quito well,
Sho said that she is allowed to sce hin every day. and to, take
‘hin food, clothing, books, papers,, and “other things which he °-
shave requeated. She also sofa. that friends havo boon very Kind.
Infact, her husbend has told her. that.ho wants the money
which. has been offered’ to him to bo shared among tho other
prigoncry wlio have none and who are trying to got bond, &

2. ‘Au to her husband's chances for being released on batl, Ha
Behe said that a number ef legal experts on this tyre of
cane have been consulted and their opinions have been rather
posalinistic,

Rico has been _ Asked to have her husband prepare a

for students at the University and in some of the Pre-
paratory Schools who are urging that ho be freed, Many of Rico's
readers are young students who greatly admire hin, :

1. Headavarters Comment: “Her full nate aa Ingeboid Diener de Rico Golan.

@. Eleld Comment; An independent, usually reliable source reported that.
“the National Liberation Movement (MLN). had taken $120.00 (B65 ) fra
“Ate pro-Victnaa fund and given it to Rico Galsa, Also, Fagon

“teocher at the Ibero-Anerican University, press chief of the

aNone

haa adie FOREIGN DISSEM

Rave

cial

= “fujracy_ tL
kL ete CAD

“a



“is - _. SBERE/iio POREIGY DISEIN i
: i gee erate oar uaa 66

Institute of Fine Arto; ond centior of ‘lis-Muvimtento Suctol Democrote
Cristiano (MSDCj, has wetertake? to ‘collect funda for Rico from among .
thetr guttal friends, Sra, de-Rico hao told Zorrille thot che and her
husbond do'not need money ot present, but tha coger to ohare |

~ ony funds they do eollect among | tha. needy prisoners

'1-1963: ond took:
uring Apri 1964 vben



: TATION,

ARRESTED TH CONKECTIUN HITH Creanaeen ca
SCHCOL PULPURTEOLY SPUNSORED BY Ist
PCVINTENTO REVOLUCICNARIO CEL Pin shu smeh>
PECPLES REVOLUTTONARY ROVERENT/

SeICELT ay E



snow

COUNTRY Mexico

“de Mationet Det
Wanemietns wr t0

Suuicr Popular Socialist Fexty -

REPORT HO, CS-312/12196-65

OATE.DIST2,

NO. PAGES.

1. (Sumiary: Popular Socdéeliat Party (PPS) attitudes. toward the

nirest of Victor 2
agatnse the Cove

retary General Vi
tunity to ‘stri
stateriont cond
Within the Party
truth of the pub
do not doubt that
quite convinced
that

ca

the PPS that potice

been Sxaggerated to ‘en
with the Président “and

Guateninlan Govern:
to silonce Rico G
new Guatemala;
since the complat
of no concern to

21.

i

he

2 Galan and others oa<charces. ot ¢:

Also, it
ole in the natter have

ru: or. that the.
sean  Covernnent
cainst
sistration ‘ts. go: disco nated
of Guatenalan officials are certainly
ico.

believed tn”

vere fe 2, C4, FE 3, ok

2



of nes popular suppert: essential to the suc
on are divided. The tare controlled
womidide ghuss is centent with the way

“Pho. Government his “alway

\CONFIDENTIAL/NO. FOREIGN DISSEM
we : 5-311/22296-66

2,

associatos can expect neither sym- © *
pular ‘Soctalsit Party: :(PPs.= Partido
Although no off4e1il decision has yet

Victor Rico.Galan and ats’

¥.
aroiadans W111 goizc' tho. opportunity to”
Sue condeanitng the entire affair as Trotskyist,
pannel andutopian Lombardo may:.decide to“uso this. oppor-
; he National Liboration Movement

ind tho Genoral Union. of Workera :
and Peasants:.of' Moxico’ eee Union Genoral do Obroros-y.
Campesinos: de ‘Kexico), thore*is a certain skepticism about the
truth of the mattor as it has: boen ‘presented in the press,
turing
explosives .were’ cont It is probably truco: ‘that indoc-
trination sesaions on political and revolutionary. matters

,were licld in the houses where the arrosts.: wero made.
‘And probably the ee up did” have sone kind. of plan. for. action,
But, it is simply trie that, there waa tho slightest danger
of. innediate and* ‘roraidablo. rebellion from Rico Galan and his

This Tater conclusion is-basedon the Fact. that. Rico Galan~
ig’ no. guerrilla leader.--He is an, aggreesive intellectual, a
‘yadical, but he 4s not in jail for widt he has done but for
his ideas, As for Raul Usalde Alvarez, named with Rico Galan
ag one ‘of the ders of tie Group, he has the reputation of
being fuzzy-ninded, a leftist adventurer and certainly netther
brave nor dedicated, Wirther, and Rico Galan is well a

by ao
things are, Also, there is the foraidable precedent of Govern=

ment action against any kindof rebellion, tradé union, aimed,

and Sort, of activity waich is Cubai-connect

1 novedWith energy, Speed, and offi!

ciency to: combat. such threats aS,.for example, during the

Railway. Workers Strike of 1959, Several leaders of that strike

are Still ‘in jail-ahd’ lively to-reddin there. Another example
‘attack on a military camp at Ciudad Madera,

Chihuahua, While thé Governiient didnot feel’ that this incident

posed any real thrent to'it, it did ‘not want the bad interna- ~~

tional publicity, so vigilanco was increasdd, activities of

Would-be guérrillas were blocked, some were bought off with

money, others with prozises,and the matter was. promptly and

efficiently controlled,

There no doubt is a degree of truth to police charges, but

the melodramatic, almost childish character given to the Rico
Gulan.moverent, the lack of any proven connection between the
moverent and leitist/Comninist orjanizations, Rico Galan's

open and well-known connections with Guatemalan guerrilla

leaders and his public support of the Cubsn revolution, make

it very hard to discount the suspicion that this is simply a
Governaent mancuver, Also, while the police no doubt did
confiscate arcs and other watorials, the suspicion exists that

the poltce have inflated their role in order to mako themselves ay
look good both to tho President and to public opinion,

ae


“CONFIDENTIAL/NO FOREIGN DIssEM

. : eB e820 © B-310/12196-66

that’ bocause of Rico Galan's harsh attacks
n adninistration, the Guatemalan Government

y mont to deal with: Pico Galan: .
dog rather ridicu

é

: : eee CONPIDENTIAL/KO FOREIGN DISSEX 1



Rie
APIA 3800 2
reece

fa:dletonoe witgh sounds 74k telorhois convorsition, to #6,

ai
d

ind. CLUNG. are sormmentine Ga tha’ Coon-cola problam in Mextoo.
hoard saying: fut thors People who. vont to Sats Déringos
vis. Suars: 1,000 poe0s por vodk. Caade

(Pasurto. makes
a8 per month).

da Vke "Viator Alba",

Beate $279: 250 pecou per hour, _
Besurto: It verioa.

(hore te muah rates. and Orfrot har aloarly)
Fasurto: ft th
(They tat
thize, 3

X muoh rove thay that, :

stout on cousin af Nainrto ta, ”,
a8 kote a yore nyaatu? sasacn,

T ssw him yootertay

To hea student?

bdontt daw, T don tt Lixo. ti

{24 3 hingott that ho wan ool,

two am woika.and that-be van

Rin akyzoro,

Q hora tg

@asr ™ Tube,

and even,

2 nee M14 a0 ted?s Bie ororye cet pee

in’othar raontata Private Mvaa. fut ho
p_ that he via of 40° ba tn Yanten only
gto Star thera for mos, vont sea

J that thay
 underst

ata toon

1 San Aneel. i
Moho rstd fer
atta why thy: @all it "ends Sppositions,

i wea Vik n kina
ow Cow vorda not unioretond

SAYSE S979 Pasar ond 2
fn mask rofae 4
da Subs short here! pa pi

parties "PS

political

eto rhrage,.
+t PRU votes ip ohn

At #399 Bagorts nertions the Binckouts In
haroed tha stores:

Vesna and Cf diarez end hav thoy havo

Pking in th inesa,
I alt nt taterSase ‘fran $582
At 46:7 ctort Searing TY to £23, folloved by etranps
At #930 TV oontinuas up to #1016,

to €09,
sound Vike rain,

Sovad off at #2229 hich ty sed Of recoriing,



SECRET

NO. FOREIGN
5: =

DISSEM

ante aceney

1
- 6

Legal Attache i
1 = CINCSO

1 = = ‘Anbasdador, Ministor,
Political Affairs:

L:
, ‘ Réported inforsation
i * z 1966.
$ -
a SECRET
NO-FOREIGN DISSEM « °
eaheie ecbeeeeeeertaeeauectl
i SET ye7 Dee ac
CS cory

er



L Net sebeetie, — tapoted
10 yateured or ineatt niet

AREASALSO SONUNT. 1 Contemed by of er mvtepenon and cohable rowces:. 2: Piebable te 3: Posebis tan a. emutitld, 3 Prcbable
Web. Canes be, in ca i :

RivORT No:

-HMS-10, 658: ~

if
fi

7. September: 1966

néfeRences

Tee Sate oF 226 September 1966

pact & Mexico, Mexico city
DATE ACO.(7':

cc A P “souree

96C. iasiic of Stémpre! magazine
the stands: on L Septéiber) Carried on papos.
7 writte “prison by Victor Rico Galan
explaining and-défending his. position: and, accu Te Mextean
Ge nen e.Of ‘bein. the réal violators: of the stitution,
Oi: the following” pazes an editorial titled Mexico NovEs-Una ve
i Inswla-de Gorillas. (Mexico 16 Not. a ‘Police State whlch rejected
ATT of Me pornts: put “for th. by Rico. “Galati, ‘defended Mexican |
institutions: and concluded withthe observation that tiie’ and
space had been devoted to what’ history would properly Fecora
asa minor incident because of thé niagazine's devotion -to.

i freedom of expression,

sno {

“1. Inge de Rico > Calan, pare of Sloapre
sald es

! eriter Victor Rico Galan,
‘ frow
i k ¢ ot tna horsh editorial against aim and bis |

< | 4 Taess Sitch appeared in the 7 Beptenber daguo of the magazine,
| “ Mrs, Rico Galan ‘said. that’ the edit rinl was far reher than. .
even President AS K he nia ttor:
aber State of the Union meReages

BECRET/WO. FORSIGH DISSEM .

eagtegunicn: : |



i
i
i

-patTon yan

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

The oe Ne
If Siempre: refuses to publish hor husband's Jotter of resig-
sho. secmed tv fool that this might be the case,

Manuel 'Marcue Pardinap of the Cosmunist ncvsnayazine politica
has assured Kico that he will publish it 1h Politicay

gen PDE E i Deses naa
On 6 Septenbor, the’ journalfat Froilan Manjarrez told Antonio
Caram of the Cuban news agency Prensa Latina that Eduardo de
los Rios (Rius), thé political cartoonist, had resignod from

Biempre: in prot: over the magazine's t. tment of Rico
olan. ince it was doubtiul that Siompri

will publish Riue®
letter of resignation, arrangements Rave alresdy been made
with Harcue Pardinas to publish it in Politica. ~~ ~~

Hanjarrez remarked that Siempre! publisher Jose Pages Lilergo
had blundered badly in bh ndling of the Rico ater affair

and that people who had nover been especially sympathetic to
Rico an wore none-the-less totally disgusted with Pages.
Rico is being spoken of es a brave mon and Pages as a con-
temptible one, according to Manjarres, as a result of the

editorial,

1, Field Comment; H¥M-10,625 reported that it was uneertain
whether Politica would continue to. publish after the 15

August issue,

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISOBY



a SECRET

VuCUKENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

AN, VICTOK
ba74 050-004-136
vo8 06 FEO 28 HMMA 30265001
QPAIN, EL FERROL 06 OCT 66
CU MEXICO P3
occ ?
<REXICU SEE OUCUMENT FUR SHURT SUHMARY UN
SUBJECTS ARREST FUR SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
AND POS- SIBLE COMMUNIST CUNNECTIONS«

R O61ULTV0T6

efi

FILE IN 201-2

SECRET



SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT COVER SHEET

Mexteo City

HMM=10,650

Willard C, CURTI

Tae itee

Willard C, CURTI

1S Has.
1 - Panama City (for CINCSO)
~3 - Files

1 - Ambassador, Minister,
Political Affairs

1 = Legal Attache i

1 - CINCSO

euPeUcWtMtay Gata

RG August is the source ef the reported information;
an abd Julieta de Munoz Rosas,

LITHYDO 3 tho source cited’ in the Field Comment, According
to information supplivd by LINOODLE/2 on 10 September 1965,
Zorrilla is a thinker, fino writer, philogopher, personally and
professionally upright and honcat, and firmly Christian,
According to the LITEMPO/12 report Rico Galan and Zotrilla met
daily for coffee and talk at the Cafe WS Flore and the bond
betwoen ‘them is these daily meetings.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



nations

APP ANAL OF COS 1 Contemed thy ovter intependent.and telishte rcvrcon, 2, Probably hue 2 Parley true. & Dowtital, 9, Probably
“lene 8 Caenet Be neha, ° ;

t
{

: BECRET/NO_FORE(GN DISSEM

Country Mextco  * REPORT HO, MMM-10,650

SUSHCT fey Finnncinl Aid to DATE OF REPORT 1 September 1966
Victor Rico Galan P ao a
; 7 2 .

* pat oe’ 28 August: 1966 -

Info, vin Bae ieaaatar
PLACES. Mexico, Mexico City: ate : aH : ee
Ef DATE ACQ. (29. Aurust: 196) i ae i i

= E THUMENALUATLO,

et catpiwis Ant ifswitiy, APranISAL_OF 6

2 he sounce:

1, According to. Ingo: “Rico Galan, | vite of Victor Rico Calan who
was arrested on 12° August. and “who has. beon. charged with conspirs.
Ang against. tho Mexican Government, her husband 1s quite well.”
She said that she 4s, allowed to see. him every. day and to: take

prisoners who have none and who ore trying to get bond.

2. aa to her busband's chisices for being ‘released on boil, irs.

Rico Galan said that a nusbor of logal experts on thia kind of
i case have been consulted and their opinions have been rather :
ae pessimistic. ;

sea, Rica Calan was also asked tu have her husband prenare a !
message Lor udentz ah tte Ga ratty and in of the Pr
i paratory Schools who are urging that he be freed, Hany of Rico's |
| readers aro young stidents who greatly ad@ire bin.

1. Field Coiument? An independent, usually reliable source

Yeported that the National Liberation Movement (MLN) had
taken $120.00 .(U.S,) fron its pro-Vietnam fund and given
it to Rico Galan. Also, Ramow Zorrilla, teacher at’.the

SECRET/NO .FOREIGH DI

O1STRIUTION



SECRET/NO FOREIGN. DISskM
-2-

[bero-Amertenn University, pr Siietot tne Nat tonal,
dnatitute of Bellas. Artes, and member of the avintento
Social Democrats Cristiana (presumably the Chrietinn :
Democratle Movement) hai undertaken to collect funds for)”
R1CO from monn. Uietr mutual friends:: Mea, Rico Galan ‘hes
told Zorilla“thot sho cher. usband do “not need ‘moi cy at:
Present but that ner: bond ‘is enger .thnt-“any funds the:
o"col lect: ‘be: shared AMON, -the othe: prisoners who. are’ tn. -
neod, ae + ane car

4

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISEM

|
j
j
j
i
i
|
i



7. z ec ur beri se erie ahary , 7P2e x1 e9 AL i
9 Nice: tuaa/ trrecked og 42 Begiat 196 b

OOS keg?

