# 104-10075-10113

## Page 1

1104-10075-10113

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SOUTHE

-...

> 1:

TO DIRECTOR

FROL:

ACTION

INFO:

TORS

22 NOV 63. 03087 IN 6682

NEGRET 212Z17Z

DIR INFO SDOM SUAN CITE WAVE 7975

INTEL DYVOUR: IMPALM

05

SUPDATA:

2 WAI KO.

MERE CHANNEL FROM CARACEL TO .

RAFAEL AZCUYA

• PROULET TRUE NAME AZTI

DESCRIPTION (AZCUY!' AZUY TRAVELED SUAN CROSA LOMACHOTON INWITATION

FROM BOSCH.

INDEX:

FILED: 2122172 REPORT CLASS CON DENTIAI

CONTROLLED DISSEM COUNTRY: DUMINICAN REFVOLIC

SUBJECT: PLANS OF FORMER DOMINIÇAN PRESIDENT JUAN BOSCHY GAVINO

D011 12 - 16 NOV 63 PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (19 NOV 63) UFG-4IED

SOURCE: A LATIN AMERICAN LEFTIST WHO HAS BEEN A CLOSE ASSOCIATE

OF GUAN BOSCH FOR A NUMBER UF YEARS AND WHO IS TRUSTED BY BOSCH

AND MEMBERS OF HIS ADMINISTRATION..

SOURCE IS À TRAINED REPORTER

AND HIS INFORMATION HAS BEEN RELIABLE IN THE PAST. SOURCE VISITED

JAN BOSCH AT THIS HOME iN AGUAL BUENS, FUERTO RICO, FROM 12-16

NOV 63.

F CONtENT:

LiE ATTAC

DO PONTION ON THIS CAME MAS

BEARS IN THE ACTION YOU

TDO

PRECEDENCE

DATE OSTRINUTED

AETURN TO CLA

Background Use Onty

Dostet Reproduce

10791

SECRE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM,

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

i endon 1090

He seize slate!

ison i heartstino o to 800000

Prata. 18. U.SC

GLASSIFICATION - LISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

•COUNTRY.

SUBJECT

HEREPORT NO. : TOCS

"DATE DISTA.

¡PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES

DATE OF

2÷53

PLACE &

DATE ACE:

APPRAISA!

SOURCE

66022

.THES..UNEVALUATED. F0

FORMER DOMINICAN PRESIDENT JUAN BOSCH Y

CAVINO HAS GIVEN UP HOER DE DETONIMO TO THE CHINICAD REFUGLIE

RICO IS PLANNING TO METIME FROM POLITIES ANO MOVE TO MIAMI, FLORIDA.

2. BOSCH TOLD A CLOSS FRIEND THAT HE (BOSCH) HAS BECA

INVOLVED IN SEVERAL SNAIMEOS VENTURES WHICH ARE STILL UNDER

CONSIDERATION. HE MAY ASGEPT A RECENT OFFER MADE BY A MOTIONN

PICTURE STUDIO: TO FIDE

58 BOOK "LA VIDA DE DAVID" A "THE LIFE OF

A DAVID"), BOSCH ALSO HAS UNDER CONSIDERATION PLANS TO GIVE A SERIES

OF LECTURES AT COLLEGES AND UNTVERSITIES IN THE UNITED STATES.

CONFIDENTIAL

-60003000.11

ASIAM ACHART

---

## Page 3

14-00000

idari

CLASSIFICATION - DIS

CUN DENTAL

IRON ¿UNTROLS

TOCS

BOSCH REVEALED THAT HE WAS NOT ENJOYINE A CLOSE

RELATIONSHIP WITH PUERTO RICAN GOVERNOR LUIS MUNOZ

MARIN. BOSCH SAID HE BELILVEO THAT MUNOZ HAD FOUND IT NECESSARY,

FOR POLITICAL REASONS, TO REFRAIN FROM SUCH A FRIENDSHIP.

(SOURCE COMMENT: MANY PUERTO RICANS CONSIDER BOSCH TO BE A

COMMUNIST AND THEREFORE TAKE A DIM VIEW OF THEIR GOVERNOR

ENVOVING A FRIENOSHIP WITH BOSCH.).

4. FIELD DISSEM NONE,

66922

2

---

