# 104-10107-10037

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10107-100370C1. 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 CRET

KOUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Oprional)

FROM:

4/45N

TO: (Officer designation,

room number, and

building)

1.

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OGC Subject: HERLIHY, Lt. Col. William

EXTENSION

NO.

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

DATE A 1049

COMMENTS (Number each commant to show from

to whom.

whom

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

4.

5.

In kyle .

3E48

7.

8.

no lecon

При і Почине

A Chech with RI

also nevealed no

second. It'is aur

position thit the

letter mentioned en

para 2 should te

sent matter than an

Kay for te releas

TTN.

ora

10.

11.

TD07

le reached on 11204

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORA

3-6

610 USEOIRENOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

BUT INEQUAL

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

UNITED STATES ARMY PERSONNEL SECURITY GROUP

FORT HOLABIRD. MARYLAND 21219

DCT 2 g 1969

USAPSG

MEMORANDUM FOR: OFFICE OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS, CIA

ATTENTION: Mr. James Ludlum

0F

SUBJECT:

HERLIHY,

William Joseph - LTC - SSAN: [558-36-6173

DOB:

L3 August 1929 - Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania]

1. Proceedings are currently underway to eliminate SUBJECT from the

U. S. Army on grounds of unsuitability under the provisions of AR

635-105.

lo substantiate a portion of the case against SUBJECT it

may become necessary to show that during 1967 and 1968 HE was not

in the employ of your agency in any manner.

In this connection

request you advise USAPSG if your agency objects to the release

of the attached DA Form 341 (Agent Report), subject as above, dated

21 June 1968, to SUBJECT, HIS defense counsel, and the members of

the board, subject to dissemination restrictions imposed by the fact

that the report contains classified defense information.

2. Should your agency object to release of the particular information

included in the cited report, a letter from your agency stating that

SUBJECT was not in your employ, in any manner, while assigned to

Supreme Headquarters, Allied Powers Europe, would be equally sufficient.

3. "For your information, the board hearing at which this information is

desired to be used will be closed to the public and the press.

1 Incl

as

ALR

COL

Chief, United States Army

Personnel Security Group

TO BE REGRADED US:

ILET SEPARATED

FROM CLASBIEZES CORECZOUDENCE OR MATERIAL

In13 cocuzoni will then be marked:

FOR CFFICIAL USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 3

4-00000

LUNCHAL?

AGENT REPÖRT

(SR 380-320-10).

2. NAME OF SUBUECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

HERLINY,

William Joseph

UNC, 064739

DPOB: 13 August 192,, Pittsburgh, Pa.

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

2. 21 JuNe 1968

3. CONTROL SORBOL OR FILE NUMBER

5558 36 61755

an employee of the CIA and further that SUBJECT was not involved

in any type of clandestine or covert mission or operation for the

CIA.

Source stated that HERLIHY had not been associated with the

ClA at any time during HIS assignment at Supreme Headquarters

Allied Powers Europe

Source had no knowledge of any pre-

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED, HOT

RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR

INTERVALS; NOT NUTONATICALLY

DECLASSIFIED. DOD DIR 5200.10

CONFIDENTIAL

S- TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPFCIAL AGENT

•IT IAM E. BREESE, JR., 650th MI Det

FORM

DA 1 AR 32 341

0 - 4663

*IRS

---

