# 104-10079-10177

## Page 1

1104-10079-1017

-2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

D:= JOIN M. WHITIEN

CLASSIFIED MESSÄGE

: SIT 3

O INDEX

ST

SECRET

5013

EX NOi INDEX

RATE: 9 DECEMBER 1963

LA FILE IN CS FILE NO201-287248 destroy 3

THE WHITE HOUSE ATTN: MR. MCGEORGE BUNDY

DEPARTHENT OF STATE

ATTN:

MR. U. ALEXIS

JOHNSON

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

12-62

ROUTING

5

6

9 Decas

19 17c

CONF:

INFO : .

SITIT

DEFERRED

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

ROUTINE

CONDUCTED ON 24 MAY 197€

PRIORITY

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

1.

87796

THE AMERICAN EMBASSY IN STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN, HAS RECEIVED A INTER HATTED

25 MOZEMBER 1963 IN STOCKHOLM ALLIGING THAI THE ASSASSINTIEN OF PRESIDENT

KENNEDY WAS ARRANGED BY THE RED CHINESE. TEN LUITER PERPORIS TO BE FROM

ONE KYO LING JUAN O THE RED CHINESE EMBASSY IN STOCKFOLM,

Sure isin

BUT NO SUCH OFTICIAL

IS ASSICNED TURE, AND THDRE IS NO RECORD OF A CHINESE OFFICIAL, BY THIS NAME ANYWHERE

AZROAD.

2..

THE LDITER IS WRITIN IN BROKEN ENGLISH AND STATES THAT THE CHINESE COLMUNISTS

Document Number 358 - 14.

MAY 1976

GOI IN CONTACT WITE OSWALD WHEN HE WAS IN IHE SOVIET UNION. WHEW OSHALD RETURNED

TO THE U.S.A., IHE RED CHINESE RE-COVIACIED HIS, TIRZATENED IO EXPOSE HIM DE HE DID

on

NOT COOPERATE. THE RED CHINESE EXPECIED THAT THE U.S. WOULD ATTACK CUBA WHON IT

LEARNED THAT THE ASSASSIN WAS A CUBAN SYMPATHIZER. THE SOVIETS WOULD THEN ATTACK

@TES U.S.A., THE RED CHINESE WOULD ASK THE SOVIETS FOR ATOMIC WEAPONS, THE

CONTUNIST BLOC WOULD WIN THE WAR, THE CHINESE REDS WOULD TEEN ASSASSIVATE

KHRUSCIEN AND TAKE OVER CONTROL.

3. THE WRITER SAID HE WORKED FOR THE "DEPARIMONT OF SIAIE SECREI, " BUT NO DEPARIMENT

BY THIS NAME IS KNOWN IN THE CHINEST COMMUNIST GOVERNMENT.

OUR STATION IN STOCKHOLI

JUDGES THIS TO BE A CRANK ISITER. THE ORIGINAL ISITER IS BEING SENT HERE FOR

ANALYSIS

authority

of

ICHARD HEIMS

RELEADAR OFFICER

US COFEND OF MESSAGE

201-289248

D-200-5-41

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded fram aulomatic

downprading and

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER FHAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

09906

---

