# 104-10063-10424

## Page 1

1104-10063-10424

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 l

70

INFO.

FROM

DISPATCH

CLASSICA IN

SECRET

Chief FA China Operations

Chief, WOHUSE/SO; Chief; BUR

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

Chief of Station, Ottera

SUBJECT

MICROFILM

TAPPER/CU ABOVE) - Contacts with PRC Officials in Canada

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action: FLI

References OTTAWA 21521, 9 May 1973

1°

The attached fron PHABOVE, copies of which were

passed to INBREO

concern contacts batween persons fe

siding In the Inited States and members of the People's

Republic of China Mission In Ottava.

The individuals uno fell lato the categories

cited in (0C01-7980 were lomarded via referance.

3o Because of the delicate source of this infor-.

nation, FHABOVE reguest that no action be taken which

sould jeopardise the security of thatr sources.

Theodore D. HOLTHAN

Asteronent:

Blind Menos

Distribution.

081g &

• 1/a C/EA/CO att aw

р - c/wusE/So att b/w

2 - C/BUR att b/W

8881

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO MEMOTE

OCaA-17205

11. M0 197

aд літоя

---

## Page 2

1400000

ATTACHMENT TO: -OCOA+17705

May 3, 1973

A reliable source has advised that on

April 19, 1973 Mr. Dean SAUNDERS and Mr. SHEN, Shing-

Ping, both of Oklahoma, advised that they would visit

commercial representatives of the People's Republic of

China (P.R.C.) Embassy in Ottawa on April 26.

According

to source, the Embassy representatives were interested

in petroleum coke of Canoco (ph) Co. in Texas and

telephone equipment and technology of the Company that

Source learned that SHEN would

bring the desired information to the Embassy.

2.

Source later learned that SHEN and SAUNDERS

arrived in Ottawa on April 25 and arranged to visit the

Ambassy on April 26. According to source, sHall had

brought some material for the Embassy officials perusal,

however, SHEN would have to return same.

Source stated that on April 27, SEEN and an

Embassy official discussed the Western Electronic Co.,

U.S.A. (place unknown) which is interested in doing

business with the P.R.C. Source advised that SHEN had

been requested by the Embassy official to prepare

information on the comparison of products, quantities,

etc.

Please yu (OCan 17676, 24 April 1973

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

26 April 73

- would visit the Embassy on 4 May 73 to discuss a

visa.

Source learned that HERSHEY had indicated

to snoassy Officials that he had been born in

the P.R.C. and that he was a good iriend of the

Chinese pecole..,

- Dudley iI. TOINE,

Professor Physics, Anhurst, Mass.

visa enquiry

- Fir: Harrison FORDNAN, New York, W.Y.

had

been advised that permission had been received

for his daughter to visit the P.R.C.

- Jan BARRIS of the U.S:-China Cornittee New York

would forward to the Embassy, the list of names

for the second delegation to visit the P.R.C.

in June 1973:

- Dr.. .(fnu.) SCHARTER of California State College,

forthriage, California

enquiry regarding a delegation's visit to the

P.R.C.

- Harshal MAPLAN, New School of Social Research,

New

York had visas

granted for himseli and his wife to

visit the P.R.C.

KAFLA! would be visiting Irank

COS and Solonan ADLER presumably in the P.R.C.

KAPLAN had discussed his schedule with COE and COE

would be away at the end of lay 1973 and ADLER

would be there for several months.

KAPLA! there-

fore wished to visit the ?.R.C. in September, 1973.

- Source learned that Elaine BRO. of Oakland,

California had received a letter from WU Chun

(Attache of P.R.C. Embassy) and that BROIN iad

replied.

1-50

---

