# 104-10119-10232

## Page 1

104-10119-10232:

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Chiles, cI/O1

10 SEP 1959

Acting Deputy Diroctor of Security (Investigations and Support)

C7719

4203377

241

Referenco is nado to your memorandun datod 16 Abril 1959

requestine an appropriate investigation of

ISGLACTEALE

2.

IS

viol

Bx:d

3

During recent Investigation of Subjoot, cortain intomation

we's developed which appearg to reflect adversely upon his character,

projessional activities and associates.

his infornation, in addition

to checks of the Office of Socurity Indices, is surarizod as followan

one Informant

that Subfoct had been marred three he nd to mone ta tort

ended in divorce recentlyo

Subject sas fined 445 for a 1954 traffic violation and

his subsequent fallure to appoar at the hearing.

• Ono informant advised.

Subject, had recently been the object of inq'úries by local pollie officers.

The Inforiant bolleved this action rosulted fron unpald paridng tickets.

c. Subject's name appears numerous tines in subversive files

on tie lest Coast. These items contain infornation about Subject! 8

activities in the Denocratic Inority Conference and lists his

PEONS

In 1949 he was listed as a member of the Bary

conrittee against loyalty oaths for lawyers. He was shown as a close

asSOcIate Of VONSO SPENCER, deseribed by the fllon as a leftist, and

his activitios vere primarily concerned with local minor. ty groups.:

These activities vere extensively reported in the Comminist Daily Peontals

Horld.

Vanio SPENCER represented Tassia FREED, a non-cooperative

witness before the RCUA.

Tassia FRECD Is the wife of E:1l FREED, an

admitted Commist nenber.

Security Office Indicos also reflect that

i die sue pie lee die dosed except

Lo nos mannel muneer me a to clue could die presig Cific.

SEDREN

---

## Page 2

•Er11 PREED 13 an airitted Communist Farty Lamber and took part In various

front activities In California over the yoars.

Tro Subjoct roportadly asaistad Ralph H. NUTTER during the

trizl of Anthony P. RIUS and Alfrod UII01, Landors of the Coammity Sar

vico Organisatione

NurTER, according to security Office Indices, has a

close personal triond of larrison Scott BROwl, ssourity disapproved in 1955,

nad favorably recomonded him. NUTTaR 1s also shown as a member of thele

Los Angelos County Conferones on Cormittee Relations (LICCR) as of October

1953. Nils' organisation, although not regariod as comunist donisated,

sticis close to the Cornist line and has spoken out against los Angeles

Police Dapartiont brutality, teacher firing, loyalty oaths, book-burning

and witch-hunting by licus, thought control and URESCO. NUTTER LaB also a

by tho sarty atathe present time.

tive offthe

In January 1959, tho Subjoct bas Intervdewad by a ropresenta-

OS concorain his association with Reinhold Josubs WUlf,

=4

In vion of tho cartification set forth in your requost, no CIA

files othor than those of the lifice of Security have been searched in

chaisction with this case. It is assured that all pertinort infornation

concerning Subject has bean furnishud pursuant to the provisions of Clandos-

tina Sorvicod Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction -

Fiold 10. 10-5001225

24

6.L

The enclosed ratorial should ba roturned in a soaled envelope narked for

the attention of the urdersigned when it has served its purpose.

FOR THE DIRECTOR. CE SECURITY:

Tirs it's

:;8.

19/32 ug 1959).

..??.s...

2/0U

---

