# 104-10186-10046

## Page 1

104-10186-10046

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NORMATION REPORT KINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL iNTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Cubana Airlines

REPORT NO

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENOES

CS CI-316/ 02270-65

26 May 1965

1

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Peproduce

• DATE OF

1964

INFO.

Washington, D. C.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. February 1965

FIELO REPORT MC

HIS IS UNEVALUATED INFICMATIOM SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DECIMITIVE. ANASAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIV

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following

i report is one of a series containing personality

information

provided

by the source

and includes supplemental

information from

records of this Agency.

It 1s

requested that the addressces take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Ilmost all of the Cubana Airlines personnel belong 1

r wor's with the Departmento de Seguridad del Estac

(Department of State Security - DSE).

Howerer, what service:

Cubana personnel

perform for the intelligence agencies are

not known.

According to Source,

too: over Cubana Airlines,

positions as stewardesses.

2

SECRET

NO FCREIGN DISSEM

STATE

REP CINCLANT CINCSO = T&NS

INSI

MILY

I OCR

T FBI 2

(Note, Fiald distributinn Indicorad by "E")

INFORMATION REPORT WINFORMATION AREPORT

WH/CICA |HE/S'R

JIE CANADA

- Li 2425

NO PROJECT (AMSUG

HHL/C.RR.REL 20-2

IN HASIEBRiL

_CSCI-316/02270-85

NEL/C/ER 095.

AH¿HALE

RIDINE

¡COOPOIATINaTAL

TOrALS MIC 8

(1), WE 1 (1), CIA,

RID 1

transm a

ILD: Swk

4/82

---

