“{104-10171-10003| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS: ACT OF 1992]

ae : ay

_ DISPATCH

Chict of Station, JUBAVE_ ZZ: oe

SOR PIC;Operational :
Alleg: onn_on DRE Penetration by GOC Authorities

ont Eaaaaaaes

1, The following 1% a report submitted in }ate June by 2
ANCLATTER-1, Due to ite lack of dotatin, an attempt was made to
eet further information and/or corroboration, but to no avail, . Tho

Froport’ dated Navana, 17 April 63, came. through [Angel Miguel ES!
Nunog),.a recent. arrival fyom-Cuba sho’ fa affiliated with the
Juvefitud Anticusuninta Revotuctonar a, @ part of the GARCERAN

at W) [ESTEVEZ| got the information from
van still dn the Uruguayan Embassy in
have received 4t from[Julio ®GARCIAY a Ob
y eeaber of the DRE Supply Sector underground, The channel
EVLZ\ from Cuba wan wala to be the Urogferas jiotenatje pouch}

ta ‘ 4

Pisacenats e Aa eldes
ve 2, The roportw wtates that lo “Oquendo” ALFONSO Villalva
(amall, thin, about 22 years old, weara..sido buyns) who lives at +

Aféapata betecen 14th and 16th Cird floor! ”
Bilitia p wha Lines Bie wife's” name. Ts Elna.
Anetber Jndividual named “Woage™ de
pating tt for Cuban authorttt

J, JMMASE traces on the above are an follows:

a. No recurd of Kicardo ALFONSO Villalva or his nom ‘du
_) guerre, “Oquendo”, : 66 :

by No record of [Julio Gancra) +.

coae TT

» ce

“Mongo” Ae the now de querre. of Jorge *uFDINA Bringuters
CE Avanch Im debriefing a confesned forcer collavorater sith
Cuban authorities sho has also named "Ngngo" as a G=2_auynh.

“057 ©
9.) Ioentitying information on (Angel Miguel ESTEVEZ pune
BPO A May AL, Pinar del Rio. Subjoct Turrently of taterest t

CU Branch,

rersrs reer

12 AUGUST ob hast

DISTRINGTION eet
d-cmer, Sas Ce %

ee gee


+ DiePaTeN Sv WOOL AND NUWBER

“SECRET | veca-r0si9 :

Teation’

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH ‘

: fiector KLroso)is identical VoffietdiPranctocel aire
Rutz] mentioned in WAVE-9701, 14 Jyne_ 3, as One of the Uruguayan
asylees who was denied entry into PBPRINE. because’ of derogatory

1 fector aLFOxso}ie noted tn 06 ;

“as holding provincial
and municipal ‘comni ter” posts in’ che PSP in Las Villas, Cicgo de Avil,
wader fino San-Juan_and San Fernando de Camarones, Cuba. Other entries

under (Hector ALFONSO} include UFG-02522, 12 March G3,:“member of MRP’ in
Corralillo,” and in 201-312732, a Spanish-language PRQ on[Francisce qi
"Rene FRAGA Lomban} that actor thronsa)ie a possible Comalnist..

f. Ono card on ‘ABIANY | aka Hector from.an AMWOO-l report
dated June 1962 seneenge im as Provincial Coordinator of the MRR
working tn the H. Upman creer factory and residing on Justicia St.,
Luyano, Havana. i ersaaae

END OF DISPATCH
i

fermen amemosn on DRE supply $ pexs

stejeound in Cob a

‘B/6R |

Sanat ieATION 7 Peat
592° vat pseviove eoinion. SECRFT | 7
