“"fo4-10103-10187|._~_| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992}. ~ i
Spi vf Fo
Cohen ~OF a i
a : ae 13 April 1966 ‘

_ NAME Rolando CUBELA Secades
DPOB 19 January 1933, Cuba : {
MARITAL STATUS = ‘Twice married. Was divorced by his first wife '

by whom he had one child. Has one child by
second wife.

BIOGRAPHIC DATA Rolando CUBELA Secades was one of the activist
student leaders who assisted in the overthrow
a : of Batista and later turned against the Castro

regime because of disaffection with communism. |
As early as March 1952, CUBELA was working i
against Batista. With student friends, including i
the four Humboldt Street martyrs made famous
in the Marcos Rodriguez trial, .CUBELA re-instituted
the University Student Federation or Directorate -
FEU or DR, as it. is called. In 1956, CUBELA
participated in the assassination of Lt. Col.
Antonio BLANCO Rico of. Batista's Military
Intelligence (SIM). Fleeing to the USA, he t
became involved in military planning and. purchasing
arms until 1 February 1958, when he and 16 other >
students returned clandestinely and into the
Escambray to fight. He led a famous column,
nt became the overall DR military leader. Although ~ 1
the DR joined military forces with Castro's
26 July Movement, they refused Ernesto: "Che" i

Guevarra's military leadership, fighting only f Siianiaa

under CUBELA'S orders. They occupied the

Presidential Palace when Batista: fled-on

1 January 1959 and initially declined to.turn

it over to Guevara and Castro... In October 1959,

‘ CUBELA became. president of the government—

bower deed oe aa aau ER oem cea —— Sponsored-FEU,— af se aH edical_.=

studies at Havana University. -In 1961, after

his term ended, he terminated his connection

Ln

e

1

nna fet : witl cause of serious disagreements aes |
with Castro and Guevara. - :

. —_—— — —— SESEEESEEERarpertesreIe reer! ————
OPERATIONAL SUMMARY: I. In March 1961, -CUBELA went to the Latin Peer
ss —=_>-—_—— —Americar Peacé Conference in Mexicg—bere— |

“he was contacted by a personal friends "==
Carlos Tepedino (AMWHIP/1) who knew
Jack Stewart\(in true name) from Havana
and introduced them. The KUBARK objective
of the meeting was to determine whether
CUBELA was anti-Castro and, if so, to bring
his views to the attention of the authorities
in the United States.

SECRET BP.



ie far Ry

eee A geome

-2- “| ae ‘i

I

“OPERATIONAL SUMMARY: 2. In Augist 1962 CUBELA went to the Helsinki -
: World Youth Festival where he was met by - :
Tepedino who introduced (William ‘Wainweight)
under the alias William "Bill" Thompson.
This was a follow up to the first meeting
with the objective of inducing and
facilitating CUBELA'S defection. However,
due to CUBELA'S plans, the objective became
an attempt to set up an internal dissident
‘ group for the overthrow of the Government
Semannaai and sabotage. CUBELA said he.was not in- e
terested in any small undertaking, and declared
the assassination of Fidel and other leaders
would be the most effective way to rescue
the revolution from the Communists. : *
. .

3. Later in August. 1962 CUBELA “went on vacation"
in Paris where he met “Bill Thompson" again
and KUBARK sought more information on his
proposal to overthrow Castro.. CUBELA also
discussed the need for the U.S. to become
more deeply involved with LA students who,
ten years later, would be on the road to
becoming key figures in LA governments.
Tepedino was present at most of these meetings.

4. In late August-early September 1962, CUBELA
was taken to a U.S. Air Force Base in
southern France where he was given'a
a 7 demonstration in explosives. CUBELA had
. thought of blowing up an oil refinery and
was also considering the elimination of
Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, the Soviet Ambassador,
and Fidel himself. CUBELA was not. given any
sabotage equipment but was trained in SW.
(@arl Williamson\ (true name) accompanied
Stiseeeiereectaies _.__CUBELA on this trip but was always called
Here é ey "Jaime“ “py CUBELA. Jack~“Red" Sieni’ (as :
Jack. Stevens) and a TSD SW technician under
eo the assumed name of Capt. David L: Harper_
also accompanied CUBELA. maa

d ierrerreait TIRES 37 hr September 383>—CUBELA was wset-—in -Ports- cra
Alegre, Brazil, by "Bill Thompson" and by
ASHES pier “using the name sas =
"Nicolas Sanson". Tepedino was also present |
at these meetings. CUBELA claimed he had
written two SW messages with FI (one was
received) but. nothing significant had been
. happening in Cuba. He said he was reluctant
to use SW because he feared the efficiency
of the cue censorship.
Psst

LO) — BS 22IY



cp RRORET

-3- at Q: :

“OPERATIONAL SUMMARY: He cited a group of Cuban military officers 7
» and discussed ways to approach them. The 7
problem was, he explained, that although
many of them were anti-Communist, they were
loyal to Fidel or they were so afraid, they
were reluctant to discuss any conspiracies
for fear they might be provocations. © CUBELA
- was of the opinion that there was no organized
conspiracy within the military or in other
groups in the country. Internal security
and controls were effective and improving
daily. At this meeting CUBELA volunteered
the_information that he thought highly
of\ Ramon GUIN Diaz\ (AMTRUNK/10) who was
hiding |Miguel_ DIAZ Isalgue\ (AMICE/14, an i
infiltration asset who-was sent in to recruit :
Guin, and did so). CUBELA said he planned
‘© use(Guin\ but he was concerned about his
nervous condition.and the fact he drank
heavily. CUBELA was told to assist (Guin >
and let him remain in Cuba rather than help
Rett to leave the country as CUBELA proposed.

‘6. From Porto Alegre, CUBELA went to Paris on
14 September 1963 where he met with Tepedino,
"Nicolas Sanson", Jack "Red" Stent, Richard
Long. CUBELA was attending the Alliance
“ Francaise in Paris at the time. It was
learned the French were unilaterally oe
a 7 : surveil lin, CUBELA whereupon ‘we advised
then our contact with him was an attempt
to"défect him. On 15 October CUBELA insisted fad
that he meet U.S. Attorney General Robert
. Kennedy because .he believed Kennedy ran Cuban
jaffairs. "Sanson's" position at the time was:
“We do not consider CUBELA is working for us
but since we have a common objective, we are
Seerareaner wa TTEStESTEIEE _— willing—te-rendér support —— ———— ees
: CUBELA went on vacation and on his return H
ae _ on 29 October 1963, it was arranged for |

; eee Desmond FitzGerald, Under the fame. "James ~~
jClark", to meet CUBELA at Stent’s home that a
aaa hey 2s —en—emissary—ef t 1 O€-
~}the Government. "Clark" made the following
SS —statement—The-U.8, is prepared to rende
a all necessary assistance to any a Comm

Cuban group which succeeds in neutralizing
the present Cuban leadership and assumes 3
sufficient control to invite the U.S. to render |
the assistance it is prepared. to give."Clark!!.
assured CUBELA of moral support for any :
activity in this direction which CUBELA might

an: ae a


SEGRE

» ’ OPERATIONAL SUMMARY: 7. The highlights of CUBELA'S reaction to this

proposal were:

a. The majority of the Cuban people are
. against Castro, but mainly because of fear they
did nothing about it. Castro's primary support
comes from the young teenage: militia group.

b. Many high ranking military officers are
anti-Communist and many are convinced Castro must
go but they are afraid to organize or even talk
against Castro to other people. This fear and
Castro's control of the Government apparatus
(security, military, defense committee, economy,
etc.) make it extremely difficult to organize a
coup against him. :

ce. If Castro falls, the military will
probably break up into four or five groups.
Without Castro, the present regime will dis-
integrate. Unless there is strong and immediate
support, the situation can easily become chaotic.
Nothing of an operational nature was discussed
at this meeting. After the meeting, CUBELA
stated he was satisfied with the policy discussion
but he now desired to know what technical support
we could provide him.

8. On 19 November 1963 it was decided at
Headquarters that’ we would advise CUBELA
would receive a cache inside Cuba. If he
ee requested it, the cache would include Sabotage
7 material, C-4 and equipment, high power rifles
with scopes, hand grenades, pistols, etc.

9. On 22 November 1963, "Sanson" met CUBELA who
asked for 20 hand grenades, two high powered
rifles with scopes and approximately 20
pounds of C-4 and related equipment in the
: cache. He had refused to carry any in-
pease aera ts RRE TO fet tenerrnaneed TIME TES criminating equipiteut—withthim on his—return
to Cuba. CUBELA spoke again about Guin) and
his concern for;Guin's)security. (it had never

ie ra been admitted CUBELA that (Guin) was
recruited by(Diaz)). When the meéting broke up,
7 "Sansou'~and-CUBELA-were—informed about.

President Kennedy's assassination.. CUBELA was
—————__ ——wisibly moved’ and asked: "Why do such things
~~ happen to good people?" At this as well as
earlier meetings, CUBELA was given small sums
of money to cover personal expenses.

; SEoREr



-5- ee .

OPERATIONAL SUMMARY: .10. On 17 March 1964, the following items were
included in two caches put down for CUBELA.
€

2 Belgain FAL rifles and ammo

2 UZI 9 mm. SMG and ammo

2 Browning pistols with: silencers and ammo
10 handgrenades. (fragmentation)

10 handgrenades (white phosphorous)

20 lbs of C-4 with firing devices and allied
equipment including time pencils and clocks.

11. On 3 May 1964, CUBELA asked for an FAL
silencer. ‘According to the news, the cache
was discovered by a small boy. In February
1965, CUBELA said portions of the cache were
recovered by a fisherman.. The pesos were
not usable due to type. He never received
any part of the cache, he said.

12. On 30 August 1964, Jorge Carlos ROBRENO
(AMLASH/2 "El Mago", a Cuban refugee in
Madrid, and Cdte. Efigenio Ameifeiras, Vice
Minister of Special Affairs MINFAR, put out
a feelers to AMWORLD saying they were out of
step with the regime and wanted to talk to
AMBIDDY/1 (artine)ROBRENO was staying
with Jose Luis GONZALEZ Gallarreta) (QUHOPS/1),
an attache at the Cuban Embassy in Madrid.
Then Alberto BLANCO Romariz (AMLASH/3) arrived
in Madrid on 2 September 1964 as a refugee.
He talked to Mr. {James Noel\and Anthon
Sileo on 15 September~I¥64 with (Gonzalez\
allarreta\making the introduction. le
poke ‘wely about CUBELA'S plan to
assassinate Castro. He said that Tepedino
- was. responsible for delivering into Cuba one
neat : FAL with Sitencer. CUBELA was to be ine re
trigger man with the_support of unidentified i
military officers. (Noel) and Sileo reprimanded {
BLANCO and said their conversation was all i
a waste of time. ~ "

aat arg g ee


_ , Skiker

-6- 7 :

OPERATIONAL SUMMARY: 13. On 11 November 1964, CUBELA went to Prague :
: i : as a special guest of the International 7
Union of Students (IUS). His trip was
arranged at his request by Jose VENEGAS
Valdespino, a Cuban vice president. of IUS
and a personal friend. On 13 November
Artime agreed to talk to Cubela,;. as the.
outside contact of the internal 26th of July
and DR internal dissidents. At a meeting
with "Sanson" on 6/7 December, Cubela told
Hs ..__ "Sanson" he was going to meet_Artime.. The
meeting with Artime took place on 27 December
“1964, Present were CUBELA, ARTIME, Jorge
Carlos ROBRENO, Alberto BLANCO: Romariz,~ Nilo
Messer and Miguel "Cuco" de Leon. During
the meeting, after they were alone, CUBELA
explained his position, plans, needs, etc.,
to Artime and an agreement. was reached.
Artime provided Cubela with a silencer for
an FAL.

14. On 1/2 February 1965, Cubela requested
$10,000 from "Sanson" to finance his
operations. It was refused on.3 February.
Instead Tepedino gave Cubela $7,000, $5,000
of which had been provided by KUBARK and
$2,000 by Tepedino.

15. Cubela returned to Cuba on 23 February 1965.
CIA has had no further direct contact with
Cubela, and he has not utilized his SW “a
to us since that time. : :

16. On 23 February 1965, CA/PA passed_a letter i
through the AMSNEAK operation to{ UNSNAFU/25 :
implying that Cubela, i:e., "one of the 1
ie - ‘Comandantes" had recently. received an
staat atti —_ oo elisa additional 35,636 in nis secret bank account. ra

7 . anaes Ant -aOoVP?7Y
