# 104-10186-10000

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10186-10000

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

• Do Not Reproduce

CABLE SECHTTAMIAT DISSFLNHATION

MATONENTI NONETLO

ROUTINO ANDION IANTLAI

SOVANCECOM

r.

DI88eN. 5r

АСТКОМ

LABURD

BLOTPRO

CLASSIRIRO MOSSADE

TOTAL COMES

CROUP!

SECRET

(Whonfilled in)

REPRODUCTIO' OF TMIS CONT PROMIBITEO

CLASSIFY TO PILE NO...

к-паР тО PLE но..

тей то Длет. чо

осетрої вʼа.

WH8

158

SECRET 851582L FEB•69 CITE WHAMIAMI 2627

DIRECTOR INFO CARACAS

5f8 69 11872246

REFS: A. DIRICTOR ADDIS

- B. DIRECTOR 69780

1. CONTACT HAS BEEN RE-ESTABLISHED WITH AMMUG/I BY WH/MIAMI.

HE AND FAMILY IN GOOD HEALIM, HAS NO PRESSING ECONOMIC PROBLEMS

AND TO DATE HAS HAD NO POLITICAL INCIDENTS.

2. DEBRIEFIG OF AMMUC-i ON JOSE (VAZQUEZ) BLANCO RESULTED

IN FOLLOWING:

A. VAZQUEZ WAS FIRST KNOWN IO HIM CIRCA 1958, WHEN BOTH

INCARCERATED IS PRINCIPE PRISON IN HAVANA FOR REVOLUTIONARY

ACTIVITIES AGALLIST BATISTA. BY MID 1959, BOTH WERE SERVING

I DEPARTAÑCITO DE INVESTIGACIOLES OF NATIONAL POLICE. AMMUG-I

DID NOT SEE VAZGUEZ AFTEK THAT PERIOD, BUT LEARNED THAT HE HAD

TRANSFERRED TO MINTEX AND ULT INFELY TO DGI.

BO BY ELD OF 1959 OR MID

196D, VAZQUEZ HAD BECOME JEFE

DE CLiTRO (CHIEF OF SIATIONS FOIL UGI IN MIAMI. COVER WAS

CONSUL LI CUSHI CONSULATE MIAMI. DURING THIS PERIOD, RUMORS

CORCULATLD. AMONG DUL OFFICERS IN HAVANA THAT VAZQUEZ HAD

RETURNED TO MAVALA TO CONSULI WITH FIDEL CASTRO, RAMIRO VALDES,

SECRET

---

