104-10172-10291) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

DISPATCH |

casted Chel, 8
i Chief, »S

O[MFA YES = Grizoriy Te, ceiuEte .
act RG. HE Sseeeetay

wit i i

{unafitee, 2 Clie: 1959

ey canes
1, In bringing Headquarters up to dato refariing tae agens 7/5 tub

relationsdijy ve would first like to make a few cosnonts on teference cop teh
which dlecussed the suitatility of a secon! Mic UIN.trip fOrUAI/S. Head=
Quarters bas a lower opinton éf{At]/5.than the ‘tation hae. ¥o agree that

22 (L2Y5 Ae probably unsuttable for say CE operaticn circetet against Golub, -r
‘Other than reporting on her contact with hia, largely beeauce of her personal
reluctarse to beccxe eny further tnvolved with him than she already 18,
However, ve alvo foal that she hee bendled herself fairly soll in a rather
difficult situation. She haa never professed to being a Soviet echolar'ss
@uch, but abe 1s fairly knowledgeable and convereant on Communist theory and
current polities and has been able to bold her own in diceussions with Golub.
Sho 4s a prodigious reader ant keopa up gp all aspects of U. 8. politieal
and cultural life, (She waa employed by/Senstor J ckoon Jor Washington State
in bis last eanpatz, op

2. as far-as her overall producticn on her RLIX.AIR trip 18 concerned,
it fe trus thot it was “rot startlingly Lcreasive;" toxever, no mention wan
made if the inforastion on Sovict putlie reacticn to the feriin crinis sent

(i-lin [¥E.5]217 wae over dirseninated, Cronted the Iniorantion van negative,
but perhaps

it was contritutive duricg Unt eritical period. In eny event
this was oo of tte main reacons fur herotrip. The only other positive intal-
LUigeree we reported was included ta(cry 7 and 950. Many detsils were Lacking,
oa you point out, but both sirhtings were fleeting and were mado wher she was
trovelling, Alec, va would like to stress that the custorer evaluations of
C3 3/403,094, which included both of the atcve Meld reporte, stated that the
report would have been inproved considerably if detalle such as the oxnct
de; » arrival and sirhting tines had teen included. Cur field report,

22(Grse7,

inelaled this information but it was left out of headquarters dia~
Socinated report, Ve will debrief her on thie particular aighting for any
sdditional irformation.

3. Teo abovo ecmients are acadeic ani are not intended to puch the
pomsitility of a second RFOSLE trip, unless coves unforeseen operational
opportamity prese.te iteelf. we agree wits ice. thet ner potestial on enviner
sounted trip may be limited due to her close contact with Golub. Although wo
bave never proalsed ancther sponsored trip to har, aha has exrreesed rer deaire
and willingness to see more of the Scvist Union, Golub har aleo toid (er that

| she shoul meke a return trip prier to her coparture frea Pintenddelc)s bas
mentioned ts Golub har desire to perhaps travel scross tha transaS

| to Vindivostok and, traval connections permitting, continue ber Journey seross
the Facific to nar home in hastingten State, (hie was her own idea.) colud

| fires, unouttediy in an otterct te tauress her, sald trat be thousst he eculd

{

i

|

ertan BE

arraye if. tovever, since then he hav bick-trececd am cald he beltew tb
wuld baa Little difficult, ~e aunt df such» trip wouit ever be posible,
Dut Af by sume atroke of lucs it cad abuut; se fool 1 definitely vert. our
sping slery nite i

xe
A, GY sCotud beraticannipe Colub contlmuce le sonny on a weerly
Basie st omica ties ane piven Abe beforaad caysith leeronsy and he te tare
te Ceseatiy her Yurrtan ceetings continue te be atrictls eeelal, uxt
Vola is otAll ptoying clear of coptroveraial, political Uaica, rs va reverted



a Gdes |

DISPATCH

ryr4

ew
taloral A132, pera Ld. be ettll appears te be artrenely fora ot Gal’s ant
haa not raived any susniciora for sary mont. . nly once naz be ment toned
Corttlie by cess to her, Thls connermed tea ductdent of the | aorand - emsteta
concert in Pelainks onl Letcbar, (8 mentioned previcusty, “clud aaxod
Costilie Af he coul! cot Uesets for Colud oe he ded Lown realing euch food
reviess of the orchestra's perfursunce in the “ Costilio wr able to get
(ap at gave thet to colwb ns a gift, for vidch Lolub wav ocat aprrectative,
Od ceru telu{Al’s that be had an extra ticket aint Af ano hed no ehjecticn to
Fring toa Portis piece with hin, she eculd Aevo it, A number of Lines he
OV avked{E1)5 {2 she wae sare she wonted to fo sith Bime Col atteapted to
eqlan ver hew 4t weald look for an ancrican student to be seat with a
Soviet diplowat at @ function which would wioubtmlly de attended by mont of
the dnerican mbcosy SK 5 stated ehe hardly knew snyone at the Lmbasay end

vosides she was free to ener frienis. Golsk-obviously was quite dis~
OZturbed that (iKJ5 would gat in trouble beicg seen with him and stated: "You
don't unters’ If I saw a Soviat student with an American diplouat, it

wuld be my duty to send the Soviet howe inwealztely. br A575 responded thet,
Abings were different for Aueriecn citinens end. taat wa did not live tn o
police state, She atated that ehe coubted wry much if anyone in the Eabassy
cared one wey or the other, Colub gave her the ticket and told her they wuld
woot at their seats which wore together. Turing the intarmlssion Colud got
up by Mavelf and walked around’ slcne. (a 1} vgteder Golub celled costilie,
to fevite tin to lunch. (This ts the first ovorture Colub bas ade tovard
Contdlle since the beginning of Septasber.) He thonked Costille profuscly
for the Mckets, and Costiile-asked hin if he wes able to axa both of than.
ke otated of course and that he had given the other one to hie Inglish teacher
amo was an American student in ileleinki. Costilie hod to 6h tured
nerest ond asked hin vio this wce, Colub Urea identified (AF, be told Costille
what an intelligent girl he thought she was, that he nad met Ker on tho trein
qwing froa isningred, ond Uhat they hed been asving conversation evenings
in Engilen togetder. (he believe thet Colub felt compelled to briny this out,
hho had to work unuer tha eeguaption thet rome Averican hed seen bin with

Oz (ar¥5. during the description of (42/5, he nada a definite attaapt to lupress

tile, his enly contact at tho Ascricon tobsasy, thal his relationship wan
qttrigthy sbove aboard ani that he hd nothing to hide.) At his next necting

sith (AlV5 he told ber thet he had bad lunch with Costille, the yersoa who hed
given Big the tickete, nat that during the conversation it cane out that he
Rad tax€A(AF]'s to the concert and that she was teaching hin raglieh. Coleb
paid U.ot ad viee-consul he (Costilla) vac responaible fer the behavicur of

Amertecn citizens in Helsinki, fiolub added thiv he trusted Costilie, however,
otays Tetponded thst Colub wo too big a thing cut of this, Colub hoo
aot returned to this issue wilh[ar/5, mor has he cuntacted Costille cince the

OG ae over her balng eeen with him by an Agerican diplosst, be feel that
mt

Innch en 1) GetobersZ[A5/5 rece! ved the inpresaion thet Golub was eincerely

‘5 was a mataral choice for him to take tot neem since his wife was

in Finland end musle hae always baun ane Sf (A!Y> and Golub!s favorite
topics conversation. ile gave her tho axtra éxet oniy after he had exe le
plained eoae of the implications of her going. "

S. Toviet contagte sith other Pulbristt atude:ter Cro reasca vy Golnb
mer te Interested in anys a ne of iar wwe as an ontre to oer Fulbright
ptisterte in ait iAPLLIZ, EEA 1 dy ve wegtionad th it Colud was
dastrou: of watiRe(2:)5'e cood friemis, Ident$ty- sorter A)bL32 and the wife,
ant ne invited thea over for a ecelsl oveningi2UiiY5 waa acnewhat reluctant

to introduce too many pecp:c to Colub ant consented enly after she felt too
many refacals sould tecune sunpicious, {veled is ¢ bird persea to any ao we,
ecelaiy, be suzvesta every micht in Ue peek until a person can't lorleally
sen ere cxchece,)22ke letar AMCs, identity 4 tne Latterte aife,
ant Lieutity 220 of AAI to the apertnent. ct re party vers viktor
ivk’', furle Uobla si Viktor Chalkcrsaly*", 41; fran the “owlet sedssey
here, Ine jarty wee vtrietiy social, ami Ue preag Metered te mushe prt
doneeds Sree Cat tine vagal nan plored tue ty & of(: spat? ant the wb fe

22



fepesspeesaat naPecsscraaet i ey eet

{ ujpv

i

CONTINUATION OF
OisPatcis

i
statin, pe wuls itie to get lopetier with then wore > week to hrusa up hie |
brgthahs oun vere seweernet ecel te ih nrerntl, emt icen atatet he ws tis
busy Sith Nis mtuciea te acet every wack, “aga! 225 Leen aver only onee cr |
twice to thelr apartarct, .n ane accaste fl Ser about 2 halfiag , |
pour and Wen retursed giving no excuse: f. artare, Cualkorsily Ase |

7
Fea) ADT) |

called Iden 2.2) ore or teice for lunch, Ga wrvtings are2Btrictly sockal
and usually onty catty toodcs are airccesed. ise 2 of (CF AMI hes are
preered Ris concern ated over having too wec> contest 1th Legal, @ loriet
Ciplonat, but trat U.0 Feelings gama to be Birmiass encach end the conver
ations ware interesting OUR) in Seefing us isvcmed of these contacts, and
thay seen to coincide sith (ne oviet emphasis ta elsinkd of culturally
cultivating Western diplomats and otter ronmofictal torelmers. e

6. Borte Zobin (201-196362)*F) sa hos been wet by beth(ATPs and Costi tle
socially, fa io about 5°10", 170 lbs, Licht brraa‘bair \cuch lighter in
color then shown in his EXCAP Rotabook photo’, alia bet aturdily bailt,
appeare to be in food physicel shape, rough niin, aarp, face. Although
‘She JODCAP shest stites be was born in Sverdicwar, Siserta(UY5S del teves
thet ho te 4 Earelo-Finn, He also told Costille that te had just returned
(sumer 1959) from s vacation 1 Petrosavodek, Uireié—Finnieh USK. He peaks
scno Pinnieh, @ little mgltsh, cwedieh ant Susataa, <0 te friendly, quiet,
oderate to heavy aocker smd drinker (he handles Mia Liceor voli), ard doas
not give the inpreeaion ef being tco cultured ar overly intelligent. Jucving

by appearance and gms be is not romeone a xersca sould Like to ncet
erate 3 met him once or tater at Soleh's aportuent and

alone in a dark all

agaln at the Soviet axtibilien in Velsinkt. Ke we Miantly to ner, but stil)
standoffinb, Sines Zlobia ie such a different tyre tian (elub’or Zegal, x75
saced Golub why Zlobin vas aleays included in tzeir eceial eveninva, Coleyoe.
Feoponded that he did oot like Yoblin but thit Iiohin alvays aaked to come
aleng to practice tnciteh. Costillo met “lobia by chenee at the restaurant

st the Soviet exhiniticn, was with Vogel ant Chaitovety, and all three,
yon Coatille's Laviteticn, joined Costille for a few trims. clobin was
aildly friendly to Costille ant entered only oreasiceally in the conversation,
Rich was doninated en the Coviet side by regal.

Te Golub~fegal-—ChalkovakyZlobinekikolay S. Zakerer (201-257422)
relationship: It 1a noteworthy that these five people spend so auch of their
ting outside of the office togetner, henever voli plans # social evening

Q2tor hays, it in alvaye Unie group wich te Present, te the exclusion of other
jusiTih opeakiag ‘ovicte in the Embassy, Costilie hes actieed Golub, Zegal,
Chalkovaky ant tlobin together oceastonally eccialty. (Ss bas never net
Rakayev.) They oetearinly are in differert offices in tbe labaasy (Colub~
seamulete, Tegalnculturnt, Mekeywrthud, and, tt ta believed, Chalkovaay and
Flobin are cultural’, tut perhape thio friendehp stexe fram another, ectual,
daty relationahipOUrjs has alco noted thie and es cme ceraticn ested cored
My these people were the only ones invited to hie partive for weetarners,
Golub responded that (he Ambassador had made a special request for all Fabassy
Rerconnel to aake a ecxcerte: effort to get out amt socialize with Finns and
citer westerners and Unse peorle wore tha only case interested 1a dniny 20,

0 ‘Aays has mada e special note of cbesrving their-etti tates toverda one another
inter-relationsipe ard bas © ocludea thet Golad 1s darinitely tne
Goaineant person in the froup and, if they are workirs ciceely together, would
be the one ment Lively to be ctief, The rest of tse Alerareay in oreer of
importance woul’ be “egel er Mikeyev, Chalkovacy eat Clavliy -lbtin. this ts
how 10 Appeere to Costliie alma,

A. Rerther bio data en folubs Lolab's wife retanes to Selsincl oa
7 tevcaber and surprise: biz ster an ateence cf steel § motte C5 Rates
teat Ue relationatiip apiesrs te re An: mace ar it ess tefere Rre. telat lath,
Golub wee ¢led te Save cor Backs fs \ifele reterm sor net eran ed celudes
intervat In PZenr Ge vite ta as frlerdty tear eye ar As Solas
Colub etLlt tnitestoa wit te va fel a tronsCer saretiog efter tie fret
Of tho vert, <0 Le quite aextous to taste Finland ov ce feale fou peers te



. DSPAICH

' too long to send tn cny are place, te Je ntill tiling adcat § posaidle

H aesterment ty bas Toi 4b Gee Coat
: pletaly on his om, referred to the (neident ducer: bel
; Wenked Cestille for fixing his up elth a cute end for a nico evening.
: Raen leld Cortilie thet he med an one ocearion pnoned the girl, Jue of
22 Gr a]sor0, and Lnvited per over to ifs anortnent. They nad @ nice inticate
Ginter, and Golub invited ber to apemi the alsht, te witch one agreed. They
want (nto the bedroa, Golub give her kis wifo's pajamas and then ha left
tne roma for o few nisutos, then he ea.n back he found her otancing nude in
the mivile of the room, celub told Cootilie Ut he immediately left the
roca, wont to bed in another beiros bucause "I Just don't vork tast frst.”
sd thst_io the lust Uolub har seen of her, according to hin, (ote:
Wud /6 Pontirmed toat the young Luty hed not been called by Colub since
Ret evening.) (no final rote which aight give an incteatioa of Colub's
importance in the Seviot istasey ia that he acconpenied Kikeyan on meny of
tbe Istter’o official visits while bo was in Minland, It 10 koeen that ho
was wlth Kikoyan during the press ccnferenee and that Colub vee invited to
attend a mali diner party given by “ikoyan at the Soviet Rebessy on 27 Oct.
22 (075 sv Cola the day after this party, and ho was eastatic over having been
ed to attend what he termed such an important overt for auch a young nan
cat ¢

(biaself).

ol

Willian 1. Costille

27 November 1959
Distribution

J=38
2-
2 “{feaa) (4-4

