# 104-10216-10117

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10216-10117

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Ambasi

BOCFISING ACTION

DISPATCH

50

CHIEF, WE

QAESTICATON

SEERE PERSIER.

CHIEF

AHTN• OF STATION,

HE/ 4

PARISe CHIEF OF STATION,

MADATO, CHIEF OF STATTON,

CHIEF OF STATION, ROME

MARCHLYWAY/PBRUMEN

AMBAHIP/S AND AHLASH/I

CHION HQUELD. RIFOTDIGES

REFERENCES..

A.

DIR 84069.

ROME 5052,

11 FEBRUARY 1965

12 FEBRUARY 1965

07 MEDIES REQUES

A potato eM

CAS 8001 ESDO

SUBJECTS TO CONTINUE OPERATE IN ITALY

REQUEST

CLEARER PICTURE OF PURPOSE AND EXTENT THEIR ACTIVITY ON BEHALF

KUBARK, PLUS IDEAS IF AMY OTHERS IMYDIVED WHO LIVE ITALY.

2. -REQUEST BASED ON SECURITY BOTH OP AND STATION.

WE MOT NOW ABLE JUDGE SIGNIFICANCE OF SUCH POSSIBLY

DEROGATORY INFO ON SUBJECTS AS HAVE RECEIVED /AND REPORTEDI FROM

AMKHIP/2, DELLUÑDE, AND LAPOGO.

THUS LACK BASIS FOR JUDGING ACCURACY AND VALUE

AV? AND DELLUNDE REFORTING ON THIS TOPIC, AS HEED TO DU AS FART

OF ASSESSHENT.

RE LAPOGO, REALIZE HOS NOT ABLE ALMAYS GIVEN PRIOR

MOTICE RE TIMING AND PURPOSE SUBJECTS TRAVEL.

SINCE PARTLY FOR

PRASONAL REASONS

BUY BASIC DATA OW OP WOULD HELP US ESTIMATE

SIGHIFICANCE OF SUCH UMANADUNCED VISITS AS REF 8.

BEY SOMERS SECURITE NECESSARY TO SUPPORT CES. I TH

DISTRIBUTION..

.

cos,

coS.

PARIS

сов,

IVIA ZRUET/

TYIA POUCHI

IVIA POUCHI

IVIA POUCHI

Fai.

21BA-396161

DESENSITIZED

VIRAROR

25 MARCH 1955

201-ANMHIP/1

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION O$

DISPATCH

SECRET/K

OIRA -39616

RELATIONSHIP WITH MISTRESS TO WHOM HE ALLEGEDLY TELLS ALL IS

WELL KNOWN TO HOS, WE DO NOT KNOW IF HQS ABLE ASSESS NATURE OR

EXTENT OF RESK

EXERT ANY CONTROL OVER MISTRESS.

OTHERWISE TRY DETERMINE IF SHE HOSTILE PENETRATION. OF OP.

ON OF OP." SAME

TRUE FOR AMLASH/ I

TO DATE ONLY BUNCÉ ANU SMITHAM EXPOSED TO ANSHIP/!.

ON WHOM REQUEST MOS READING RE LOYALTIES.

BUT SINCE

BOTH ARE LIAISON OFFICERS,

DEVIGIL SECURITY CAN BE AFFECTED BY

HEIRS. MOREOVER, FUTURE OPS NEEDS MAY REQUIRE OTHER EXPOSURES.

ASPECTS.

REQUEST HQS POUCH SUMMARY OF OP WITH STRESS ON SECURITY

WALTER L. BUNCE

334.

- DESENSITIZED

---

