704-10308-10246) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

: ne IV 2pLUuRL I Cag AIR F
ies ‘ ima ny) Volpe USAGK CANADAJEYES ONLY 4agG Stree

- A

75-752 70 BE GIVEN TRIG (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION

a

= w MICK CUIB-25 WS 56 3/0/TRIG-CUI/T257-63
IS 27 Nov 63 P
Dist? ico
FR [uv] 24 Nov 63°"
TO [Miami]: AMAPOLA -- 4
Msg Nr: --

1. Whether there is a concentration of the yankee army.
2. Whether there is a cencentration of mercenaries.

3. Whether there is an increase in pressure on those sympathetic
to Cuba and the left. .

4. Whether active counterrevclutionaries are disappearing.

If the answer is yes, sénd a cable to Cuba and indicate in the
text the number of the points which may develop there.

Example: He calls the 12th means that. points | and 2 are
developing.

Inform fully via CANDI the reaction of the Gussanos and the
Republicans to the death of KENNEDY.

We received message Nr. 7 via CANDI, and Nr. 1 and Nr. 6 via
LABRADA.

The equivalents of the 64% intercalaticns are interpreted.

More about GARRIGA: He has lived in Miami for 29 years; he uses
the pseudonym JUAN CRUZ; his home address is 1594 NW Street; his
telephone number is NE44338; he has two daughters who are married to
Cuban 3/0/TRIG-CUI/T257-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

2
uSGK CANADA] EYES ON!Y



13-00000

re . COP SECRET [bgNARI?.

< Guban 8/C/ pres -c0i/1257- 63

nonrevolutionaries; one daughter is named EDDY and she was discharged
from the Richards stcre by the Fidelistas according to reports.

zy
Please {eune inj Wednesday.
End of Nr. 41.
Regards.

JUAN. November 24.

¥ 2¥ 2y¥
((A)) [sent] also cn &1 SM/ana (iax7zJ

[us] 934 CN CUIS 59101 TI 24 Nov 63 14807
(FQ 5613k(a))
24

- 7
TOP SECRET [DIN AR/
 ~=CO “
