# 104-10183-10229

## Page 1

104-10183-10229 233/2022 RELEÄSE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

PASSIPE B RESSAGE

SECRET

2j

•3

ROUTING

X0B--4

513

100161

..S.AECTER

SASIEOS

SI

i:s

EF

230

CA

ACTIO

NSS

PARIS

C/hE 3.

DOP, ADOP, C/S00 N, C/CI, C/T1 2, 06//2H/SA 5, VR

SECRET. 031228Z

i3{4&874715

DIR CITE PARI 3930

DESE RYBAT KEYMAY PERUMEN AMWHIP:

REF: DIU 10696*

MSS WHICH SUBJECT PARA TWO REF. HAD FROM AMLASHONE VAS THAT

LATTER, WAITS SPLENCER FOR THE BELGIAN FADE SUBMACHINEGUN SOONEST.

THIS TO BE DELIVERED TO @MARZO) FOR @JORGE). CAMWHIP NOT ABLE GET

BETTER DESCRIPTION WEAPON BUT SAYS IT IS THE NATO WEAPON WHICH

MILITIA CUBA CASRY).

2. SUBJECT PARA IWO REF LED BY AMWHIP THINK LATTER WILL TRY

SILENCER TO CUBA VIA RELATIVES ITALY, ACTUALLYUBARX WOULD

MAVE TO DELIVER. IN IGVORANCE HOS KNOWLEDGE DETAILS STOCKWOOD ASKED

TO WHAT ADDRESS ITEM COULD DE DELIVERED IF DESIRED DO SO.

AMWHIP

WHAC" "VICK" HAS BACKGROUND. l.

SAVE IDENS A BAND S O: AUPN

3. (20SE ALBERTO ISRARRA MARTIN HAS NOT COME TO PARIS AND

PROBABLY WILL NOT ACC SUBJECT PARA TWO REF. BASIC REASON IS HE

TURVED DOWN REQUSST BY FAURE HE WORK FOR DSE IN INTERNATIONAL

FIELO WHILE ABROAD. DID, SO BECAUSE HE BASIGALLY FRIEND OF FAURE

AND PEE COUNCE SERICANA THREE RES. AMSMIP THIES MAY LEARN:

THE MORE COSE & MAY.

ADDITICUAL RESPONSE TO REF

.:1:.

SECRET

3/pm

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SECRET

74775 PAGE 2

06 833

1/5 6041::

AN IMORTAT MESSUSE FROM AULASY/1.

ESS PIESCO TO NEET CARLOS JORGE MARICUEZ) ANA CEL MACO LEO HAS

- SECRST

---

