[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

104-10170-10017

i {
i
aly
Ai |
a ae
sees Ler top a ; i |
|
|
eSetuRn TO Cia i
ickgreund Use
Do Not Fez: oe | H
fo,
(eames
DBA 273 2¢r i
nf, 3fl ~ :
/ _

19-977



er

UNITED sTaTES DD PAUTMENT OF JUSTICE po

FEDERAL Rem at or isvestigsTiON

Chicago, Illinois
Upyox

EJERCITO CUDANO ANTICOMUNISTA

(PRENTE RECAMBRAY)

(CUBAN ANT I-CO0UNI8T ARMY)
YRONT

(28CAMBRAY

i ie 66 $02 Qn

Wg Fa.

Ma.

CS ¢

7


FO-BEE *Pee, boas ery FECS au OUREAU OF INVEST TION : *

Dare _ 11/9/82

JOSH CARDOSO, a naturalized U, 8, citizens of Cubas
descent, whe bas been active with various anti-CASTRO greups im
Chicago, the most receat of which was the Ejeroito Cubaso
Anticomunista (Frente Xecambray) (Cuban Anti-Communist Army,
Escarbray Front), alien regiatration @A8 233 529, residing at
2317 South Treaball Avenue, advised as follows:

are

Siyiias 226 0" Approximately tho middle of October, 1962, MARTIN
of“ WORUA’of Miani, Florida, matiemal coerdizator of the Direoterie

Reveluctemario Estudiaatil (DRK)(Studeats Revolutionary

Directorate), a Cuban political organization of long standing,

which is opposed to the CASTRO Government of Cuba, gave his

& list of arms and equipment needed by the underground ta

Cuba. Included om the list aad pointed out as moct importaat

vas an iter of 1,000 blasting capa. MORUA stated the vhele i

underground movenent in Cuba was at a standstill waiting fer

blasting caps, (It was presumed that the DRE had already

to ceeay the explosives with which the blasting caps vere te

be used).

Although it could not be specifically recalled that
MORUA had so stated, it wag implied and understood by him that
the DRE was working im cooperation with the Central Intelligence
Agency (CIA), or, at least, had tho tacit approval of CLA,

Be contacted JOHN BURKMAN of Northville, Michigas,
seca and made arrepgenonts to obtain 1,000 electric blasticg caps,
™ - at 35¢ each, and 200 fuse-type blasting caps, at 3i¢ each.
The fuse-type blasting caps vere delivered to his hone by
ol ef usepciate of BURDUK's and picked up there by MORUA and
fo? JORGE ‘MARTI“SALAZAR, of Bellwood, Illinois, a Cuban refugee
who was going to be working with the DRE, On October 26,
1962, MORUA and MARTI drove to Northville, Michigan, to pick up
the 1,000 blasting caps and planced to then proceed to Miami.

He did not handle any of the money paid for the
. blasting caps but had made arrangements for peysent to be
made at the time of delivery to MORUS. According to MORUA,
the money used to pay for these blastirg caps had been raised
by the DRE in the Chicago area.

On 11/7/62 ___ Cheago, Illinois File § 1058-11363

by BAs DAVID E. HOUSER & WALTER C. ROGERS .,, dictated 11/9/62

This document conte ine sotther toccamentettons eer congincioas of the FBI. Hts the property of the FBI and le lomned te
Tout agency; i end He contents are sot to te duuibeied evieide You epeeer.

(a



CO 105.-11363

WORUA'S list also included the folloring:

5 mortars
approximately 15 machine guns

6 or 7 20 mm, canuons

300 M14 or M2 rifles

5 bazcokas

4,000 lbs, of an explogive called C4

Be inquired of JOEN BURKKAN regarding those items and
was told they would have to be obtained in Can BORKHAN
was checking to determine vhether these ite: @ available but
was insisting that U. 8, Government clearance forthe transactioa
be obtained and wao ing eting on cash payment at the tine of

delivery. ZI DBEACS
Approximately a year ago; be obtained from BURUN,

“3,000 of the fuse-type blasting eaps, as well as two telegraph

Sending and receiving sets, for EVEZLIO DUQUE, commander io chief,
Kjercito Cubano Anticomunista (Frente Eacanbray), which DUQUE
Picked up and took to Miami for use by his organization,

This pemorandue containe neither recommendations
sor conclusions of the FBI, It 1s the property of the YBI
and 18 loared to your agency; it and its cont.
be distributed outside your agoacy,

