{104-10256-10299) : {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

Lay

. »

+

' : o é : ee . ‘ :

peietenitn cs Prikiitieat axa Hy)

Page 2 i

Tour of Duty Report 0900 - 1700 Hours
SDOs J.W. Martin & T.A. Gaines

10 September 1973

13. 1400 - Received a call from Carol Joann Reese, Listed nuisance.
Nothing of eo interest discussed. TAG
Oo

14. 1400 -(John F. Powers } OC” reported to OSDO that his automobile
‘ad been stolen on 7 September. (See Incident Report
for details). JWM

15. 1420 - Received a collect call from Ken on backstop number 356-5996.
Message passed to R. Smith, EUR. Call logged. TAG

16. 1200 ~ William R. Northcutt, Assistant U.S. District Attorney's

Office, Miami, Florida advised OSDO that Frank Anthony

LATE Sturgis (alias Frank A. Fiorini) and Max Gonzalez had

ITEM een charged for grand lareeny during a period of June-Oct
1968. Mr. Northcutt reported that both subjects were claim-
ing they worked for the agency during this period in connection
to an armed raid on Cuba. Notified C/HSB and D/PTOS and
Richard Lansdale, Associate to General Counsel who will handle. JWM

17. 1425 - Agency operator transferred a call from a Ms Sandy Schenkat,
West Palm Beach, Florida requesting verification of employ-
ment of an alleged CIA agent, Charles Monro Hamilton,III.
(See related Incident Report for details). TAG

_18. 1510 - Agency operator transferred a call from Wesley J. Smith, listed

nuisance. Nothing of agency interest discussed. JWM pasninsinssianissiassinait

19. 1515 - Received a collect call from Rey on backstop number 356-8104.
Message passed to W. Walker, WH. Call logged. TAG

20. 1516 - Received a call from FPO Britt at VIP lot stating that a Mr.
Smith was at his location requesting information on employ-
‘ment. Joe King and CSDO responded. Mr. Thomas W. Smith stated
that he had applied to the Agency in May 1973 and was interested
in the status of his application. Mr. King informed him that
employment inquiries should be directed to the Office of Per-
sonnel at Ames Building. Mr. Smith stated that he had entered
the compound unchallenged when he inadvertenlly drove in through
the exit road at Gate #3. He was quite concerned that he was
able to make such ea penatration unchallenged. JWM RCM

CONFIBENT HE

