4104-10174-10038), [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

eH DRAET

2 February 196% ao

MEMERANBUM FOR THE RECORD:
: SUBJECT: Bevriefing ef Edvard G. Tichbern(P)

1. Edward G.Tichborn(P) arrived in Washington from his. trip to Cuba during
the night of 31 January 1960/. "e was debriefed at the Rotel Statler from about
1000 to 1530 hours on 1 February. Those present atthe debrief: were Messrs.

03(Phi1 Toomey and Charles Penney from W* Division, Mr PP/EAD, and
ie Undersigned. This debriefing was very interesting and resulted fox a good
deal of pertinent information. The three and « half reels of tape derived fxee
therefrom are now being transcribed by this office. Some of the more salient
points are noted below.

x ;
i 2. Some of the operational information and suggestions offered by Tichborn
: are the following:

a There appears to be little chance of a coalition ef the opposition
groups at this time or in the near future since they are not well organized
and each group’ maak vould want to be the leader of such an effort. Alco,
according to the mmabers of the orposition to whom Tichborn talked, it is
the general consensus of opinion that Fidel Castro is in no danger of loosing
his grip or the devotion of his followérsx for sone time to come.

b. Fidel Castro seens to becone most xt upset and almost paniced by :
defections. Possessing a "Messiah-type complex* he cannot bear the thought
of someone leaving the fold. Rather than to let such defections pass on
: unnoticed, he feels rompalled to give reasons and rake excuses. This then
- blows hhe matter up perheps out of proportion and quickly becomes a matter
of public knowledge. Tichborn feels that the inducement of defections ccald
perhaps have more effect on Castro then any other single, rational action ve

might undertake.

6. There appears to be a relatively long-standing schism between the
brothers Fidel and Raoul Castro. Raoul 1s the moze cold individual. As an
example, Fidel once ordered some ‘400 prisoners to be returned safely to their
hopes, but Raoul had a number of then killed. The general feeling in Cuba is
$hat Fidel is not a Comamist, but that Raoul is undoubtedly at least a
fellov-traveller. Developing or exploiting this schism could therefore, be
operationally advantageous. (The fact that they are brothers would probably
huve little effect on Fidel vho has already reduced ktaxmmt the land holdings
of his mother and another brother in conformity with the agrarian refor2
program and vho jailed his sister, and fired a Minister, over 2 shake-down
on an insurance deal.)

3. Of special operatiorel interest were several individuals Tichborn
mentioned who night have some influence on Fidel Castro and hence might be of

5\pV ;


‘pd

- 7 And they leterthe latter treated ‘him with great respect. It was felt by Tichborn'
chatted-aione of this information, end by Tighborn, that Father de Castro undoubted
for an hour. has sone-influence over Castro. Tichborn suggested that it would be of value to

operational interest. They are:

a. Pather(Padre) Alberto de Castro: he 1s a Jesuit priest presently
located in Caracas, Venezuela, vho had been a teacher of Fidel Castro during
his youth. Castro was in Venezuela and saw Father de Castro there during
Which time the latter criticized Fidel for some of his actions. In spite of
the famt that this-remonstration occured in front of some of Fidel

determine whether or not Fidel has cny regular contact with Father de Castro
and.if so,what operational potential he might have.

b.. Herb Mathews: he is a journalist with the R.¥,Times and was the only
American newspaperman covering the Castro story prior to his final success,
While Tichborn was in Cuba, a front page article pa appeared in Revolucion
(the regime's press-spokesman) on Mathews. It was a sort of editorial and
praised Mathews as a "real man" and one who understocd the revolution and
its elms, Michborn feels that 1t might be to our advantage to get into
contact with Mathews since he appears to have the confidence of the
administration. :

oh fe
ec. Professor;Roscot Subject is on the faculty of the Universidad de
Villameva and is a contemporary of Fidel Castro. They vere clasmates and
both were debators although according to Rosco, Castro did not make the
Debating Society of which he(Rosco) was the presidentOnce after the
revolution, Rosco attended a sppech Castro made and after the oration, the
letter asked Rosco what he thought cf it. Upon hearing some criticiom, hé ivanted
to know how it could have been inproved. Since Castro was leaving for
/ Venezuela ‘and the Yaited States he asked Rosco to accompany him in order that
they could discuss the matter further. Tichborn feels that Rosco (a menber of
the opposition) mx probably has more influence on Castro thun Rosco realizes
and that this possibility would be worth looking into.

d. Edward R.Murrow: he produced a-TV program on Castro and Tichborn feels
that he might have established @ rapport with Cestro during this period.

4. One of the contacts Tichborn made in Cuba (the Director of Tourism) asked

him if he knew of anyone who would be interested in coming to Cuba on an all-dxpenses-

paid visit in order to write articles (or other similar propaganda) on present day
Guba. Tichborn mentioned Clete Roberts, a populer radio and TV commentator in Los
Angeles as a possible candidate. (Tichborn also discussed this matter with Horace
W. Davis.) Tichborn will mention this possibility to Roberts upon hia return to
Californie.

5. While in Cuba, Tichborn accidently met a young lady who later revealed to
him that she war "an agent for the gState Dapartment". He felt that this was a
security gatter and that it should be brought to our attention for that purpose.
vrB(Toomey) did not recognize the name; it 1s being further checked cut with Wi
Division, The incident and the detaila will be rade the subject of a separate
semorandua for CI Staff.

a tt ek ie a A ae nN


fi

6, Cn the adninistrative side, 4% Tiebtorr wil forvard by mat) his
financial accounting, one copy to the cover conpsny and the other to Henry
WM. Darkin(P). The cover letter which was provided him thx the event that
he cane to the attention of the Cyban suthcritie: was returned to us and is
now in his Tile, (Thore was no necessity for its use.) Tichborn inquired as to
the possibility of receiving reimbursement for medical exponses vhich will :
undoubtedly be incurred upon his return to California due to a possible hernia - :
which developed in New York on hfs return trip én route to Washington. This is *

‘being checked out by this office. Tichborn departed for, Los Angeles (having bean
taken to Freindship International Airport by Senry th —Serkin)

) at about 1600
hours on 1 February 1960.

Evalena $. Vidal
