(104-10195-10287, (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

C] UNcLassiFigo =) PENA CONF’ “*NTIAL secret
: "ROUTING: AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT, [Opronat)

ae ACTION COPY” wm ie 3149-6 #10

a NOV 2 § 1963

IMITLALS Draw © line cereus column etter each comment.)
robwasoeb
This CAL BAS

HENAD BY Kors OF
| Peopee -

4 Du oe

ot 572

7

y es
per naps lw ot-TA

Mention ee AT <THE

AerriN.— 73 How
NOW thséCUhE

[NT CAAAT A GALES
ALG :

Sr 610 “tance ) secret =) CONFIDENTIAL, «CJ USMY =). UNCLASSIFIED


rome
eae

oistr:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION: DATE:

25 Nov 63
Fite:

Sec a Eos : TRESNING RUDEES

PRIORITY |
Ger nariona, [oe ee :

ome Peay pera

ue re

WAVE 8149

MEX DIR MEXT
1. ODFOAM ADVISED WAVE THAT PHONE CALL FROM oe fee SAN ANTONTO

& ——F
"ABACA IN MEXICO CITY (PHONE 185334) TO OR. EMILIO} fine: PONTUONDO,

————
MIAMI, WAS MONITORED 24 NOVEMBER S30 peer WAS IN SPANISH

AND GIST OF IT IS3 PLAN OF CASTRO CARRIED FORWARD, BORBY IS NEXTe

SOON THE ATOMIC BOMBS WILL RAIN AND THEY WILI. NOT KNOW FROM WHERE.
2. WAVE TRACES NUNEZ REVEALS HE SUBJECT 201-3123046

NO RECORD CABACA. HOWEVER, ANOT=2 ADVISED CABACA IS PROBARLY JOSE

SAINZ, DPOR CIRCA 1918 PROVINCE LAS VILLAS, CURA.

Y RESIDES MEXICO CITY, PO BOX 3090 AND HAS SAME PHONE
NOs PARA t AROVE. HE IS NOW OCCUPIED WITH OBTAINING MEXICAN VISAS
FOR PERSONS DESIRING LEAVE CURA. HE IS PRONOUNCED BATISTIANO
AND RIGHTIST WITH TIES TO BATISTA GROUPS IN UeSe AND HEADS THE

ALIANZA PARA EL PROGRESS DE AMERICA.
3. LOCAL ODFOAH BEING INFORMED RE PARA 2 INFOs

25/23352

