# 104-10110-10204

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10110-10204

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

:

1219000

FILE NO.

DATE

2 August 1960

SYNOPSIS

Note], Coral Calleg, Farida.

p9$5,6,749

two (2) stall employees and tarze (3) Cubans vere present. The

meetings were held in order to "Iron out"' internal dissensions with-

in the MRR.

ne to (2) stait employees vere interviered and insolaz &

they recall no Goverment or CIA interest was divulged during th

course of thel, neetings ulth the three (3) Cubans.

Intervlaus with Miami FBI representatives reflected that

Irs. VANiMiR had told the FBI that one od the conterees stated

that he was hired by the inited siates to do away vith Castro.

The IsT, at the regest of staif euployee Bereard Peichhardt,

told lirs. VALWInER that incident reported by her was under FBI

investigation and for reasons of security, it vas desired that she

refrain iron diseussing incident with anyone and that she also

counsel her friends to do likewise.

Physical survey of the University fourt Resort liotel revealed

that the room selected for the reeting vas vulnerable.

Mitached to the original al this report are ixhibits 1 through

s/460

REPORT NO.

Foi No 1125a

1201

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-?!

7219000

2 August 1950

GENERAL

At Coral Gables, Flordes

On 22 and 25 July 1960, Raymond J. O'MARA, Chier, Formera

Operating Base (POB), Has Interviewed In b1s office relative to

the security violation at Coral Gables (see Exhibit 1)).

¡is. O'MARA indicatod that ho zaa on his way to brablagtoa,

D. Ca, at the tize that the incident was reported by the FBI to

Bernard REICHSARDI, a start employee who mintaing his africe.

outside of IOS. O'MARA further stated that he had been briefed

on the securlty leat watle be ves in Hashtagton, D. C.

DiT. O'MARA, tho did not attend the neeting where the security

violation occurred, prepered & memorandun for the rocord (see

Exhibit #2) settlag forth the detaila of the arrengements anâ

aiscussions Leading up to the meeting which was beld 1a Roon 209

at the University Couxt Resort Motel, 1590 South Dide Bigaway,

Coral Gables, Florida.

on 22 July 1900, Case Oficer

ravel

• BROWN, starT employee,

was interrlowed at the Atlantic Motel theza

The is currently

Fo taba 1a tele at not cooperative and appeapod to be sincere and

Ioltabla 11 bis staterants.

at a safebouse at 2300 hours, 18 July 1960, in order to discuss

the progran for the followdag day ilth members of MRR. Staff employees

111I1an KiTT, Jerzy DROWTiR, Baymond O'MARA and BiDki Vare present at

this meeting.

Mr. BROWN continued that the reason that Mr. DROLLIR case to

Coral Cables was to have a meeting with several nembers of the Hin

on 19 July 1960 11 order to "Iron out" internal aistensions.

toon arrival, Brown observed

that ARIAS was "still in the Fack": ARIMB and BROWN deperted

vebicle in tresporting ARlIN and arrangements for the notel to be

used for the meeting were wade by Jerry brontai.

11460

SEGRET -1-

---

## Page 3

14-00000

#21.9000

2 August 1960

Case Officer BRONT farther elsoorated that he faa not e1arg

01 IT, DROLLER's JoGG samber unt1l the actual morning of tao metisg.

DROLER had chreised Isto the University Court Ranort Motel wiler

the 20na IR's ERNDER end had decided to utilice his quartera for

the meeting. After determintay DROLaR'& roon sunber, BROWN weat

back to the car there be had latt Allli, picined hin up, and pro

ceeded to roos 209 at the notel. la sisted thet st all tines

while ha vas 1s blo car he made sure that he vas not being sur

vollied and toot nocessary actios to preclude azy mobile surves liance.

Ee did sot expons the indigenous partitisants unnecessaliy vaile

at the notel. Daring the hours 0915 to 1015, 1120 to 1330 and

1430 to 1600, I9 July 1960, tinen the metings occurred, tha doors

were locked and there vas no eating or ¿riniday an there vas so

coon service apraried by the notel. Io the best of BRON's se-

callection, seither he nor the isdizenou personel vere sees by

say of the occupants of the motel. BRONN mentioned thet he tas

not snare of any securlty precoutions thet the responsible lase

VITICS JeTTY DROLAR tOOk beiDTo, durisE, and sicer the sleettag.

Ibe primary duty of BROiN during the meetiago vas serviag a8 al

interpreter for Mi. DRONMi.

The conversation saa louder than normal and It was noted

that Jerry DROLLER speaks ulth an obrious Germale eccent. English

and Spanish were spoken freely throughout the meetings.

EROWN indicated that the following nanes, areas, and tarms

were mentioned during the meetings:

b

GonAzlet

CORSO

C.

ARTINE

d. Lino/DERMAIDEZ

eL LUCAS /MORAN

3. 1110/DIAZ pg. 4.

T1 chel XA30R

Sancaez ARRANGO

&. BENDER GrOUP

8114609

-2.

SEGRZ

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

# 219000

2 Auguat 1950

1. Llouel (used treguently and this is tha code nane for

one of tbe MRR men)

M. AX. SUNT

1. Ostente and Havans, Cuba

•. References as to laablagton, such as, "What are uy friends

13. Washington golag to sayi

Do Mexdco

g. Frente

I. National Directorite

B. MRR

t. Executive Committee

un Justa

- V. Visas

" 1 Disciplins (often used)

x. Pilota (sumbera such sa 40 or 50)

y. Revolutionary Froat (referring to FED)

2 Training and treinag areas

E8. Executive Committees and Secretarlata (example: "Way

hasn't the froat come up with the Executive Cosmittee?")

"I have plenes

pilots.")

cc. At our meetings in New Yor's

ad. "You have not cooperated uith uy Jiante who came to Miami

as my military representative."

BROWN stated that to the best of his inowledge no mention

as made of the United States Coverment or toe CIA.

- 3-

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SEGRET

7219000

2 Auguat 1960

BROWN stated that no calls were received at the notel during

the first meeting nor vare there any outside callo nade. Mere

were no incanag as outgoing calls made during the second meeting.

Two incondag calla were received by Jerry DROLLER at 1500 and 1530

hours at nich bine is. ARJuMi called and talied to BRoiN vio 1s-

terpreted for DROLLER. BROWN further recalled that at the end

of the third neetlog, about 1600 hours, Mr. DROLLER telephoned

Raymond O'MARA 3nd Jake ISINPIni. on their unlisted phoses fro

the motel rooms. then it. DROLLER was talking to O'MARA end

ESTERLISS, ORlY BRON was present. No Outgoing calls vere nade

by the indigenous persomel durisg the entire session at the sotel.

All calls were made through a switchboard. BROiN polated out that

at 20 tine darlag, the sessions with the indigenous personnel were

they Interrupted by motel employees or occupants. He added that

the notel roon did not have a radio, however, there vas a tele-

vistan set walch was not used during the neetlago.

Adcording to BROWl, the second meeting ended at about 1345

hores, at rich tina he and the three Cubeas; Mesars Hind DIAL,

Michel JABOR, and Eleardo lounTs, left the room and proceeded to

we Corips shop at the motal in order to have their lunca. ¡ stuNN

mentioneù boat urere vere about tao tables of custoners 1u tre

restaurant. He observed three Argentine-Spanish speaking Penalen

siting sext to hia table. He polsted out that although his

chatting with the Cubaas during lunch vas 11 Spanish, they did

not discuss buzlaess.: There was so discussion between tables.

After lunch the group returned to the room at about 1425 bours

and waited for lI, DRONER to retura. Mr. DROLER returned to

the roon st about 1140 bours at which time the third meeting

commenced. FROWN notod that while vaiting Ior Mr. DROLLEr, Little

or so discussion transpired betreen he and the three Cubans.

Attestion 1s lavlted to Exhtbit 13 which 1s a menorandun 20r the

reeord, setting forth in detall an account of the meetings oa 19

July 1960.

BROWN mentioned that he had never been at the University

Court Resort Motel before the meeting nor bas he been there siroe.

He had no further information to offer.

Mr. Deard B. RACHARDT, Stars lmployee, was Interviewed

02 22 and 23 July 1900 11 bis office and the office of Mr. o Mari.

Ee was cooperative sad gave what appeared to be truthful statements.

RICHARDT stated that he does not haye nich more Inforation

to offer than has been cited In his cable (Exbiblt #1), dated 20

Juy 1960, MI. REICHARDT was Instructed by the Reporting Agent

-44 -

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

#219000

- 2 August 1960

to talts a nenoraodun lar the recard as sun addendum to Ischibit

"1 setting forth la detail the receipt of Information iron the

FBI and that subsequent sotion ras tairen by him 1s this uatter.

Attached as Schiblt i4 13 a memorandum for the rocord, dates 23

July 1960, voluntarily sunitted by dir. REtChhArDt.

MI. RICARDT vOlusteered the Information that ho had

learzed that IT, Justin I. GLIICIAU?, Calei, 00/Contacts OFfiCe,

Coral Gables, was to meet tith tr. Latrence J. BRowil, President,

Esso Stasiard 011 Campany Of Cuba, On 22 Jaly 1960 and diacuas a

master not cometted with the socurity incident. In this connection,

RETCHARDI bIefed CINTCHAJF on the security. Lead so that he

world be alert to any nestios of this incident during his meeting

WIth MT. ERITER. GELICIAUS SUbBeguentI advIsed REICHARDT that

Mr. BREMER had made no mention of the Incident so bin.

REIGiiARDI hed so furtber pertisent information to offer.

Attached as Ixhibit #5 Is a nemorandun for the record pre-

pared by Mr. John J. SULLIVAl, Security Officer, 70B, on 25 July

1960.

At Miant Beach, FLorida

Astlag Special Agent 1n Charge, Richard BAKER, Of the Moni

FBI was controted in his office, third floor, Justice Building,

3915 alscayDe Blyd., at 0955 hours, 25 July 1960, by the Reporting

Agent and FOB Security Officer, Jobs J. SULLIVAN. MI. SULLIVAN

briefed iir. BAKER why we were there and requested that he furnis

any informstion avallable relative to the incident that occurred

at the University Court Resort Motel on 19 July 1960. ME. BAKER

at 1005 houre requested FBI Special, Agent George DAVIS, the 11-

Testigator handling the natter, to participate in the diacussion.

Spectal Agent DAVIS Indicated that at 1500 hours on 19 July

1960 & call was received fron Hrs. Clark VALENTINER, MIIE Of 20

executive of the contisental Can Compasy, Favana, Cuba, tho re-

ported that sbe had overheard a discussion of an anti-CASIRO troup.

At this polnt, Mr. DAVIS polated out that his detalled repert on

this matter which 1s Incorporated in & larger report dealiag vita

unsolicited infomation, was forwarded to the FBI Headquarters

on Saturday, 23 July 1960. DAVIS added that the only matter that

he ald not Include in his investigativa report tas tro license

plates numbers which Mrs. VAlues had provided him. Mrs.

VALUNTER had noted the license plates of the participants 1n

the meetlag conducted in Room 209 st the University Court Resort

Motes.

-5.

SEORET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

9219000

2 Auguast 1950

shortly after the call mas received by the fBI fron tres.

VALENTAKA, FBI Special Agent Howard ATBAUGS inforned "Bernie"

REICHARDT of the aforementioned telephone call. "Bernie" sub-

sequently asked Special Agent DAVIS to contact lirs. VALENNER

for the purpose of deterining what she had overheard, refralo

from discusing this matter furtber viin azyone, asd also to

caution ber Islenda vinom she had told oi the incident to do Ilie-

Wise.

Spectal Agent DAVIS meationed that MrB. VALEMIER bed

returned to her roos, 210, at the University Court Resort Hotel

at 1130 hours, 19 July 1960, and soticed bellows of cigar mole

emanating fron anderneath her kitchen door. Upon examining the

situation, she overbeard loud conversing in the connecting roon.

In listeniog further, Mrs. VALINDER was able to record the

conversation in Room 209 by tailog copious notes. His. VALiNni

believed there vers three Cubans present together with two otber

indiridualo those nationallty she could not deterine but whose

names she established to be Iranx HEADiR asd "Jirnio." One of.

the Cubana served as an Iaterpreter and BalDER spole vith a d1s-

tinct Germanie accent. Mrs. VAIVILiVIR tOld DAVIS that sir. BEHDE?

during the meeting had stated that he was "hired by the Ualted

States to do away with CASIRO." Mrs. VAILITIER also noted duriag

the meeting relerences. to Jonard and HUHT, which she surized

to be one Homand BUNI.

Special Agent DAVIS Indiosted that he interviewed HIB.

VALENVIR 17 her quarters 1s the motel during the hours 2300 to

0145 on 19 and 20 July 1960, The uriter, at this polat, Inquired

as to the size of the crack underseath Mrs. VALENTilR'S Itchen

ince) of many of the Inaividuals participatiog 1n the discussios.

The tolter further queried DAVIS as to unether she bad say 2004-

Ledge of spantsh. DAVIS replied that she advised him that she

posseBses fluent haarledge of Spanish after having resided in Cube

for ten years. Her husband has lived In Cubs for tatrty years.

While at the motel, DAVIS observed tust she had notes of the

conversation which she referred to durlag the Interview. It should

be noted that these notes were not confiscated by Davis.

DAVIS stated that Mrs. ROBINSON, Who 18 also & resident of

the notel, was present during tan seeting for a vary short ser1od

(exact tines unbows). hrs. ROBEISON 19 the wife of en inerican

busineamnan 12 Cube..

kir. Lawrence BRENER of the Esso Company of

- 6-

SEGRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SF01L1

1219C0:0

2 AugISE 1950

cuba = a130 howledgeable of the incident since she cy]lod him

ICT aûiCO. BROWER advised ber to call the FBI.

she telephosed

the fEL iron the home of lins. MORRIS OX MORRISON (not farther -

identited).

MES. VALEMAIR, accordiny to DAVIS, did a Ilttle inestigatog

on her one. After the meeting of the group was over, frank BaldER

callai Is-lonal Al-lines to coutlia his reservations for 19 July

Sactly thereafter, Mrs. JALSNTINER called Nationel Airlines

and damerined that ElUR wes dentined for Washington, D.C, ste

also conducted discreet Ingul--les at the notel and ascertained

that tine occupante of Roch 209 vere & group of buzinessmen ustag.

the rosa for the day. MrS. VÄTSNTIER tas carefal to note the

• license plates of tiro cars that were used by the confarees.:.. She

conduced no further 1nvestigation.

Special Agent DAVIS described Hira. VALZHTIWER as discreet,

cooperzire, Intelligent, asti-C161R0, asd anti-Commist, DAVIS

Taels wat this partioular inclient i'1ll "aleia astural deata"

and thes the people uno have iscone inciledgeable to sons extent

of our scilvity are discreet enough to not discass it turtber.

During i1s discussion r1th Mrs. VALINMIKA, DAVIS at so time divulged

any United Staten Goverment uponsorship of this matter.

Accülag Specdal Agent in Sarge Richard BAXtR concluded that

as far as the local I'BI Offles Was COnCerned, this Has s closed

Ee added that say other purtiolpation by his offico moula

naye to be approved iy FBI Feudquarters.

At Cores? Gables, Florida

Aù 1200 hours, 27 Jaly I9150, the Reporting Azert, under allas,

noved into rood 206 at tbe latversity Court Resort Motel. A

physteri survey at the motel was made on this day. Attention 11

larhter to Exhiblt #6. butlating "C" wbere the meetings were con-

ducted isva coupletely eguippe comecting diretie litchens. Mas.

ClarE HASNTINER currently occapies roca 210 at this notel vhere,

hed she elested to do so, toula be ablo to creshear the entire

anverssilon in room 209 Ixon her kitchenette. As till be notei

on the rage 1 alegran of Exhibit #6, her litchen extenda three te

four feet (satual neasurement) Into roch 209. The iltchen door

1a of payrood construction. In bullalng ( there 18 a 3/4 to 1 Inca

gap bewaren the floor end tibe jase at the litchen doors to emparenaly

allow 22 Tall to tell carpeting. Between Icoms 209 aid 209 #bars

1a & sueel reinforced plastered wall. It Is the salter's opinion

that 1ª 15 impossiblo to nonli-s conversation taling piace In 209

from 2005 ilthout the use oi proper listening devices. According

-7-

SED CI

---

## Page 9

14-00000

1229000

2 ANguEt I50O

tO LI. ERCHN, brarloualy identialed 1a this report, the wiraons

were closed and the at- coalitioning as on then the meatings

tiare condacied.

• It would be difiloult fox anyone to nonitor the conversation

In roon 209 fron either the back or 1xont doors as they are oi

snoked glass construction therery affording the occupants of the

roon to note anyone standing in trari oi them.

At liashtagton, D.C.

Attached an Echtbit #7 13 & cory of a TiX suumary sent fron

Spoctal Agent 1a Charge, Hiant, Florida, to FBI Headquarters on

23 July 1960, and made available to this Azancy by Special Agent

SEn PAFICA

TROLLER, Staff employee, atlas Franx BENDER, was

Interlowed /a 26 July 1900 by the Reporting Agent and Mr. Joseph

LANGAN, SeQurIty OstICes, Project MARC, In bis 0ff1es at Bartoa

Fall. He yan cooperative.

HI. DROLiEs prefaced his renarts by lodicating that ke had.

completed s menorandin for the record, requested by Mi. LANCAN,

and nade a copy arailable (see Echtolt #8).

HI. DROLLER Indicated that the glat of his cover story for

the indigenous persomel 1s that he 19 a private American citisen

and a member of a groTo of American citizens (business, education,

etc.) sho nonetimes In the past lInd tbenteltes in utnor dinagree-'

ment vlth the valted States foretza palioy 11l Istin Anerica (Invar-

10g INJILLO and the 11ke). Inat this broup has noticed a mucia

nore "Partard look" by the linited States Govemment and toet ite

group 13 iberefore directed to do anything which can de of

assistance to patriotio citizens who will bring about a chanze

of the CASiRO Coverment. DROLTIR further declared thst opersting

¡ita tale comer story, he has sever sentioned that he tea au

employee of the nited States Coverment. Mr. LAGAN, at this

poist, querted Me. DOLuss whether any mention of the United

States Goverment had been made by the indigenous persoonel tho

partledgated In the meetings. DROLUR could not recall. Fe

furtber polated out that Unlted States Goverment came up in

meetlaga when diacuaning United States foreign polloy, but never

1n connection with employment by the united States Goverament.

ir. DRolin displayed ibe altas travel doomentation vaica

he has beex using on bis escursions to Misd lesch, Florida, ames.

It was noted that the sidress itt lest Esth Street, lew Yors City,

was listed on this doomentation, but according to i. DROLLER 1a

not baciestopped.

-8-

SEGRET

---

## Page 10

4-00000

123.9.000

2 August 1960

LiE, DROLLER declarel that he bad condacted seetias on 24

Hay, aid 7 wad 19 Juse 1100. Te neetings were bald to direreet

roos in the save butlitas, at the same floor on two occesions.

aá once on the ground 1100r. Durtuz tbose neetings, unich tere

keld for bustness and doctal reasons, the following vare preserc:

• 85

The executive comittes of the Brente (FoUr people)

Hamal,

CODIS

Dayloyeen: Fernie RETCHARD, E1121M KINI,

Bernard BAKER and IraTel ERONIY

iT- DROLLER stated that at no itre did the agents mow ve

foreband where the sentinga vould take placa. He had no further

pertinent Information to cifer.

Search of CS Inaices revealed that Iswrence Joseph BRäwR

Ot the inso Company ot thas Has issueL an OperatIoneL approval

on 29 May 1950 t0 permit the Subject'i use as a contret agent 1a

Cube under undesizuated covér.

Mart Arthur VAlaYuuRD spouse of bars. Loudee

VALVES, Ana ranted/da operetional approval oa 37

Shannons

permit hle 2s0 a0 a/11eid agent 17 Cubs.

Jamary 1957

SEBT? -

---

