‘4-on00 " M aes a CMM ASANASTANOSINRMIEE IC DOUR LINDE CODED RDETEM EIDE

-1104-10515-10030:

|
|
i 3 i
| : : : |
aay EE elerasrea Hg aE nestesracaotet stant . (0 Signed: Famed RoruMb a)
: | JAMES ANC i :
| re ‘
H we % :
i  CUR&AN 7 : i
i Distribution: : : :
|  Oflg'& Fs Addresses : ‘

v- C/CL
H V.CI/LSN
i 7 Ls GI/REA
i ‘ \-- RED/AN
: ‘ t= CI/R&A/Chrono

i : - 1- crea Fort)



_

ee i (os Fea fgg,

“mIcROF!

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
’ Federal: Buréau 0: fay. tigation
Attention: Mr, S.J, ‘Papich

SUBJECT A, Garrison and the Keanedy Aosasataation
U Dr. Joho M, Nichole

4. Dr. Joha Marshall Nichole, a University of iconsag
Pathologist, has testlicd at the c ay Shaw’ trial that. photographic.”
evideacs of Prosidant Kennedy", igetion was ‘Compatible’

‘mith tho theory that the total abot waa itrad ira)
7 gic No ae)

2. A search of CIA Tecorda Fevoalgjthe followtag information
sonceraiog De, Nichole, Gn. \OrsClaha bt, "Nichole, considered
identical, wae born 48 March (921 at Cha » Weet Virginia,

Dr. Nichole recetved an AB degree from Virginia University,
Morgantown, West Virginia ia \94c,. and a PhD irom the University
of North Cazolina, Chapet Hill, North Carolina tn 1950, From
1950 to 1952 subjoct wa, eniployed aa a Physiology Asatetant,
Bowman Gray School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Corolina;
from U951 to 1954 he wag tmiployed as a medical doctor, Vatversity
of Liverpool, Royal College ot Phystcians and Surgeons, London,
Faglond. Subject wee employed by the Department of Pathology,
Medical College of Virgiaia, Kiehmend, Virgiola, irom May of
1955 through at lenge January of 1957. Newepaper Teports Indicate
that eubject ta currently employed 5a an Associate Professor of

3 i

LMED |



i ese + “er
en ey

Fsthoiogy at the 'Uaivotalty'os Kansas Medical School,
, aedithat ba roaldea (athe Kanses cuy ‘guburb

Beiglam A
7 Departméat: oF Pa ology, | Yale Catvaraity,
: dated lor. travel to Cacchoalovakia and the

Pt
USSR io Moreh: 1996.

4. Ble: requested thet ony additiendl Iiormatioa which
on this subject be provided to this Agency.

ae seca

sctorooesa9 >
Rassases.Pouser'——a ori
H CIU/R&A:IFort;tmw,
: Distribution: :
: . Orig & | - Addressee
i : L-c/cr
Vs CI/LSN
! : L - CI/R&A
1 - RID/AN

! i - CI/R&A/Chrono
' “| -+ CI/R&A/Fort

