“"404-10095-10048) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }

: ‘ VYUIGYING. MESSAUL i 7 “ts ear a
raaers tL 2 8
ae sionat genres Youty —- ’ Be tl mee
: ace cor x J 106 re uno ber - PAGE OF PAGES
; ! : 1 Oo
ee Fo Ten 9g
SSE CR ET .
jae recess oare-nmeonour cme Po werdioenerenencenvuaen
ih USTAFF ae i : DIRECTOR F§0b09 j
ii O  moex DISSEM BY: |
Hater ‘CONF: INFO: FILE Oe soiebes

DO nerunnro PER

os peronzny nextco crt¥~ ¥ CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGR
Cee ee RELEASE AS SANITIZED

i
‘REF? DIRECTOR W50054 ¥ h1899
i 2. H@S YAS UNAWARE UNTIL 28 NOVEMBER THAT HOUSE SELECT

COMMLTTEE TVESTIGATORS WENT TO MEXICO CIT? ON 2? NOVENBER TA

‘ietervieU A FORNER AGENCY TRANSLATOR {POSSIBLY NR. BORTS FARALOTE
wo NOW RESIDES IN GUADALAJARA} AND AN UNIDENTIFIED FORMER AGUNCY aa
) TYPIST WHO ALLEGEDLY PREPARED A TRANSCRIPT OF A TELEPHONE CBLL MAME
IN LATE SEPTENSER L832 BY LEC HARVEY OSWALD 75 THE SOVIET LHUASS¥Y La

GWCXECO CITY. THE TRARSCRIPT OF THIS CALL+ ACCORDING To i

KESSLER IN HIS 2? NOVEMBER "WASHINGTON POST™ ARTICLE. ALLEG
i

Fay

“CONTAINED AN OFFER BY OSWALD OF UNDEFINED INFORMATION IN RETKi

A FREE TRIP TO THE USSR. ¥

2. SHOULD HOBSE SELECT COMMITTEE INVESTUGATORS CONTACT PHL

pul STATION YOU SHOULD BE AWARE THAT NO STAFF HENER OF THE CO
3HAS YET RECEIVED A SECURITY CLEARANCE. STATION SHOULD. TH
@NOT DISCUSS WITH INVESTIGATORS ANY CLASSIFIED INFORMATION RECAELING

VOSWALDTS ACTIVITIES IN NEXICO CITY BETWEEN &% SEPTENPFR AND 3 OCT oLE

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

RELEASING OFricen cOOROWATING OFFICERS aunienmicativa oFmicen
stassinearion REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED £ 2 |MPDET
SECRET : CL BY: Jott)

12E USE PREVIOUS

FORM



ee eels MESSAGE
ee TA

t SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY o

OnF oO i) oO Qo ‘0 oO 0 2 .
| e@assirication
SECRET

| MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR DATE-TIME GROUP cre

STAFF, pele DIRECTOR
1 moex DISSEM BY:
CONF: INFO: FILE Ooi
O nerumro PER

/49u3- ANY QUESTIONS TOUCHING OM CLASSIFIED THFORNATIO

REFERRED TO H@S.

3- IN LIGHT OF DEVELOPING HOUSE COMMITTEES IN TIGATIONS +

APPRECIATE REPORT OF ANY REPEAT ANY PAPERS AND BTS RELATENG is

iTHE OSWALD LAGS VISTT TO RHAMEXICO CITY AND FOLLOULNG TRVESTIGATIONS

4

z
(THAT ARE STILL HELD TN THE STATION. IF ANY PLEASE DESCRIGE So

! CAN BE HADE CONCERNING FORWARDING TO HAS.

Gal
a
o
in
mH
°
=

HSIDERATION BEING GIVEN AT Was TH

Ye SOHE

RELATING TG

DISCLOSURE OF HOLDE?

DURING Aba TO HEXTICO CITY Cee

SVEELLANCE}4 AS SELL AS RELATED OCVELOP

RE YOULD OBVIOUSLY REV: ELATION

P TRUE NAMES INCLUDING POSSTELE fs Gr

HOUSES USED FOR PHOTO SURVELLLANCE- PLEASE PROVID

4 CONSIDERED VIEW OF REACTION OF AUD
ONAL CONNOTATIONS AD

SPOLITICAL AND OPERA
2, PUYLIC DISCLOSSURE YAS MADE. ¥

ay S- NO FILE-

DATE: 30 NOV 2 COORD!

ORIG: JOHN BECKY ITHIRAS BRECKINRIDGE
UNIT: AC/LA/MECAN / LG STAFF
“EXT: 94354 f Rue
YHOWE As WARREN/C/LAD JOH U. BECK Te rece
Lcarishcutsacdéeael REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED E 2 IMPDET

SECRET CL BY?"

:

