IP/CFS CONTROL NO.

4 APR 1978 Lay

REQUESTER*S NOTES.

+ OF REFERENCES ORDERED [THIS REQUEST REFERS TO
(Doc. Ref.)

tPsces

REQUESTER

1P/oms

SUBJECT OF INDEX SEARCH

‘SURNAME

SEND _IMPERSONAL INDEX SEARCHES TO IP/AR

DIAN KEL.

GIVEN NAMES

VESE MPRRIE “AoE

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE SEARCHED

AKA, ALIASES

201 NO. IF KNOWN

201- 2BESO AL

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, CP membership, 1. Sy
affiliations, etc.)

WT vA RETU,
BERERR, JOHN WV. Background Use tly

RESULTS OF IP/MI SEARCH

"Do Not Reproduce

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

NO RECORDS IDENTIFIABLE WITH SUBJECT

STAR RECORDS ATTACHED

THERE ARE OTHER INDICES THAT YOU SHOULD CONSIDER.

MICROFICHE RECORDS ATTACHED DUE TO TEMPORARY STAR
FAILURE, , PLEASE CONTACT IP/MI REGARDING SUEMISSION
OF THIS TRACE REQUEST.

SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR CHECKLIST OF OTHER INDICES AND
201 CONSOLIDATION INSTRUCTIONS.

TO ORDER DOCUMENTS

SURNAME NOT FOUND IN FILES:

1, Review Index Records.

WHICH MAY PERTAIN TO THE SUBJECT OF
i MAY BE REVIEWED IN IP/MI, 184003,

WERE ARE —_____ RECORDS OF WHICH____ ARE FNU'S
THIS SEARCH; THESE

2 Draw greeh diagonal line across Items you do not want.
3. Forward to IP/CFS,

TO EDIT THE INDEX RECORDS

H + 4

f COMMENTS . @ che rice AECRR RECEIPT OF THE DOCUMENTS. EDIT THE INDEX RECORD
FLER SEE GAEL TIVES: ACCORDING TO DOI 70-19.

FreKk-P4L

READY:

tr To DESTROY INDEX RECORD: MARK THE INDEX RECORD WITH

A GREEN D. AND CITE THE REASON.
2. TO MAKE CORRECT IONS/ADDITIONS:
-_ THE INDEX RECORD IN GREEN INK.
3+ FORWARD To IP/OMS VIA YOUR RECORDS OFFICER

ENTER THE CHANGES oN

| J REQUEST NO./DATE/TIME

362 use previous

FORM
vp BI?

SECRET

201 CONSOLIDATION

> =>} INSTRUCTIONS -ON.;-REVERSE
SIDE.

€-2, IMPDET CL. BY: 062147

(4-8-38)

(377





14-00000

__TENTOBARY CRARGE TOs

