# 104-10227-10114

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10227-10114

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

21 Marab 1969

MIORAHDIA POR TIE REDORD

SIBJECT: Plana for the satsoliabsent of a proriaional Governasse

RSP: PArRETapA 3, 20 March 1961 Maso for the locord, Subject no Abovo

d.

On 20 March 1961 nt 1730 hours Mr. Huit rolophontonlly advleod Kr.

Aapal1 that Alro Cardonn bad been unanisualy olected Provinional Prossiont.

DO HKP, VICh Ray in atterinace, rotal is the olaction.

8. A$ 2315 hours 20 March Nr. Fool Informed tho unlorsioned tolaphonloally

from M1 val that MiTO Cardona and som mensbers of the ladenbly could proceed

8o Hes York anl that HI. Carr vould also fly to lar York in ordar to bo on

head, Do undoraignos inford Nr. loal alons the lines of Ball 3004 (OUT. TT28)

3.

On 21 Marah Mr. Inpall vns diapatched to few York after be had been

briefed cong the 11n00 of Ball 300k 1n ordor to asslat Mr. CaTT In every

passible any.

By 1600 houre un hns been inforsal thrt the following 19

Cubans, IDclullag MIrO Cardona, voro proceeding to lon Yorki Miro, Proos,

Ray, Calbre, Artime, Varoon, Carrillo, Alusros Dias, Vargro Dosos, Carbo,

Faranadas TrarioDs, Ollads, Orlando Rodriguas, forlo, MIzuel Consales-.

intorarator ito 18 ooniAg at tua request of MITO--Barguis, Boruit, Boralo

Barker lA BOdAg alOnE so saneral brady san.

A. Is lion fork, as anitors Dor starl, the Cabana illl Strat s9e6 10

prIVatO In Order to fInniIse thair jolnt doularation and tbals progrea.

Dha onEsTa Andeably v1ll than call a prosa conferenco at uhich tina ebay

1111 amOuse thaIr UA1 LY LA alACtIAz lirO Cerdans ns the Chairoan of tha

Porolutionaty Camoll an in Laving apread os a prozona. Astor tale Miro

vill anka blo acceptanco spoaca.

In chla connection 1t abould be socod

that 18 10 hopod to bavo tha publies ty end bundled by both salchaas, a

saaber of the "Cariatian Selenco Konitor" SERf! Add en acquaIntance of Schleslagar,:

and Lon 50a08.

S. As soon of March 21 tha underaignal tas in talephonla contres vita

HT. Bradock of the Btrte Departuent and tho unleraigned natod Mr. Brodoet

bathas or not tha Doparteent of Stato van 11 agraenont to the roloseo..

by tha Cubana--of thair platfora, a resums of dich had beca undo prailablo

to tho Departsant of Stato (Hr. Berle) as T March, Mr. Bradock adriaod

the underaigaad at 1400 houre that the Departesat ne 18 nell agreesse

vith the platfara and had no abjections to sta rolerso.

1.....

---

## Page 2

14-00000

1' 5

1o ottactos).

tracterente: (3

1.

Sandi

•8 .

ARRARD DROLLER

C/113/0/PA

---

