# 104-10104-10311

## Page 1

1-00000-T a SE

104-10104-103111

4505.021414

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MESSAGE FOR'I

TOTAL COPIES:

20

IG:

IT :

.T.

.TE : :

RICHARD HEIMS

DIRECTOR

6464

13 SEPT. 1967

JISSEM BY -

_ 12 PER-

O FILE RID

• INDEX

• NO INDEX

• FILE IN OS FILE NO.

1

XXXXXXXXX

ROUT

NG

5

SECRET

• DESTROY

• RETURN TO

_ BRANCH

IOM: DIRECTOR

INF :

INFO: VR , FILE

RID COPY

DIOCI, EXIDIR, DDP, ADDP, CS/RF,

DDEL

CSDO

CS PORCASIFE 8, C/SAVA

SECRET.

DIPPE

TE ANO TIME F

(ELITE)

FERENCE NUMBERY

(PICA)

IMMODIATE

SAIGON

SEP 13

1514'2

-13-5

INTO BANKO

13-7

BANGKOX VIENTIANE

CITE DIRECTOR

35095-

RYBAT

(*Reported ACOS conversation with Sen. Symington.)

13-5

RE

BANGKOXJ2703 (IN-50826) *

FOR SENATOR SYMINGTON FROM MR. HELISS

"1.

REGRET YOUR CONCERN OVER JOHN HART'S ASSENCE DURING. YOUR VISIT TO

SAIGON. HE HAD A MOST. IMPORTANT OPERATIONAI CONTACT TO MAKE IN LONDON THIS WEEK, AW

ARRANGEMENT MADE WELL BEFORE WE KNEW YOU WERE VISITING SAIGON. IN ANY EVENT,

AM SURE YOU WILL FIND LOU LAPHAN HIGHLY QUALIFIED TO HANDLE WITH YOU WHATEVER

MATTERS YOU CARE TO DISCUSS. HE HAS BEEN IN VICINAM FOR NEARLY A TEAR, HAS HAD

SENIOR AGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES BEFORE THAT, AND HAS BEEN DEEPLY INVOLVED AND

DIPECTLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE BULK OF OUR PROGRAM THERE IN THE PROVINCIAL CADRE

AND INTELLIGENCE FIELDS. SHOULD THERE EE SOME RESIDUAL MATTERS FOLLOWING YOUR

VISIT TO SAIGON, WE WOULD BE GLAD TO HOLD JOHN HART HERE IN WASHINGTON UNTIL YOU

RETURAl.

"2. WITH RESPECT TO YOUR REQUEST FOR A FULL RUNDOWN ON OUR PERSONNEL

COMNITNENIS TO VIETNAM, I AN SURE THAT SAIGON STATION WILL GIVE YOU A FULZ BRIEF

OF. TODAY'S SITUATION. THEY MAY NOT BE AS WELL EQUIPPED IO GIVE YOU THE TREND

OVER THE YEARS, BUT I AM ARRANGING THAT A FULL BRIEFING ON OUR PERSONNEL

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

GROUPI

facierdad leom oulomatis

coungroding and

doctussilication

AUTHENTIGATINO

OFFICER

COPY NO.

11084e446n neorien toes

---

## Page 2

MISSAUL -URI

TOTAL COPIEC:

SECRET

XXXXXXXXXXXX2X

ROUTING

XXXXXxXXX

ilT

•TE :

SISSEM BY -

¿OM: DIRECTOR

INF :

- PER-

O FILE RID

D INDEX

O NO INDEX

O FILE IN ES FILE NO.

-#-

2

3

4

• DESTROY L RETURN TO

- BRANCH

PACE THO

(2)

INFO: VR , FILE

RID COPY

(CLASSIFICATION)

SECRET

DATE AND TIME FILED)

CITE DIRECTOR

(ELITE)

(REFERENCE NUMBER)

SPICAL

35095

13-5

13-7

-

TO! SAIGON.

INTO BANGKOs VIENTIANE

STRENGTHS IN VIETNAM BEIWEEN 1959 - 1967, WITH THE PROGRAMS TO WHICH THEY WERE

COMMITTED, BE PREPARED FOR PRESENTATION TO YOU ON YOUR RETURN HERE. I HOPE THIS

WILI WORK OUT SATISFACTORILY.

"3. NITH RESPECI TO GARRISON'S ALLEGATIONS, WE ARE GATHERING TOGETHER ALL

POSSIBLE FACTS AND WILL CERTAINLY BE PREPARED TO GIVE TUE FULL AND STRAIGHT

STORY AS NEEDED. THANK YOU FOR THE SUGGESTION. IT WOULD SE HELPFUL IF

MR. GARRISON WERE SOMEWHAT MORE SPECIFIC IN HIS ALLEGATIONS. "

(END OF MESSAGE)

RICHARD HELMS, DCI

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SICRET

GROUP 1

Excluded from outomalic

doungrading and

decloniticolion

vinn

THOMAS B. MARAMESSINES

AUTHENTICATING DDE

OFFICER

REPRODUC

IN BY

OTHER THIN THE ISSUING OFT

7 IS PROMISITED.

5028 tic.

---

