‘| ‘104-10183-10387) [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

7 oy

10 TEAS

from DIRECTOF

. i)
Coe a
PEO ro
itches 4
to PREY WATE, 0 onpa , 20958
25958
—  BIAY PIPIC roars anne
BEF “a) wavs $276 *
8). wave 557° ©
7 Cy Dit Uh are
D) wee st29 « * ‘
B) DOR 25599
G 1. TO DNTTIATS BF-WEDLY SUPPORT PIAS {0 WIVES THRU SOR BACESTORS
- BEOTOI 30 AAR 63 POR AMICR/LL, AMTCE/27, AXD AMTHUSE/2 WEED CLARIF ECAC?
POTS EXPECTED. BOT CLEAR PROM REPS & AND D WEETHER ACERED SUPHORT FOGS
* OF $250 NOWTELY PUL AMICE/27 AND $250 FOYTULY Fi MISE/LL, ANTSUEK/3 AxD
ARTEOEE,'2 To BZ PLUS Ss IN PULL @ LESS you Tam VX VITIRCLOO,
~

2. TO ARRABTZ POICDNS CY PINTS 1M) AHCEALL, AMIDE /27, ABD AMISTHL/2
END NBO HG MICA TO BR PAID BI-VERXLY To PAMILIBS FROM COVER. CARIZ_
iat REMY SOMES.

3. SUK ¥.Y, cove? CAMBOT ES USED Pre IEsvuMes OP W-2, STRUCT
OF DROME PAX, IT APPEALS AGENTS WILL BS REQUIRED TO FILE COVERT RETURES
FOR 1363.

A. DILWYLY PINT PRECLOSIS WQS PAIBGLLIGI. COVER PINTS WILL BF f'3
TO WAVE. STATION SITIN PAYROLL GeodS ARD 2/A TO YS QUARTERLY ANTS STTH-

HELD POR ISCORE war.

S. WAVE SEOULD BSTUELOGA HOLDTWO ACCE FOR ANTRUNE-3 AND 2/A TAXES 45
Ts re ] (cat ot

tee reer



upd

OUTLIED Para he
6.” PLS wep COPIES OF mOC'S WEIN SRCILD TOCLOLE SPECIVID ANTS OF GROSS

quer, peanix’ rons To Darnmors, tit MInMOLODN AND Povzarad FOR Cont

‘SND OF MESSAGE

se «(1 77938) eC 83509) ee 86698)

Hey,
¢/sa5/¥izence (J. ts. zens raft)
e/ras/Security (0. Tadase-' sty
gas/sa(agta, Ney 3
Cha SS, Qegatet—
DRO YITERALD :
/3as

atetaseea ornice

