# 104-10128-10279

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10128-10279

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

..

FILE WHEN INITIALED

SPECIAL ACCESS AND/OR BILLET APPROVAL

(Submit original and five copies to CIB/SR&CD)

DATE OF REQUEST

6 January 1975

SUBJECT'S NAME (LOSt. Firat.

Middle)

PHILLIPS,

David A.

DATE OF BIRTH (DA MO YS)

te lilit

SSN

POSITION

ORGANIZATION

CODE

Chief, LA

COMPONENT

CODE

CIA

APPROVED

TCO/CIA

APPROVED

emy too valent

DOT SET

DDO

SUB-DIVISION

LA

TO: CHIEF, CIB THRU THE APPROPRIATE APPROVING AND CONCURRING OFFICERS

DATE

/7/25-

APPROVED

DATE

CONCUR

APPROVED

C/SS/OSA

460-28-3930

CODES BELOW ARE FOR CIB

USE ONLY

CODE

CODE

DATE

CONCUR

APPROVED

CONCUR

APPROVED

DATE

DATE

CONCUR

APPROVED

CONCUR

APPROVED

DATE

DATE

IT IS REQUESTED THAT LAAXSPECIAL ACCESS APPROVAL L

PROJECT(S) AND PHASE WHERE APPLICABLE, JUSTIFICATION:

7 BILLET APPROVAL BE GRANTED FOR THE SUBJECT IN THE FOLLOWING

PORT

Subject is a staff employee. Subject will require PORTI clearance

for IAS conference to be held on 20 January 1975.

REQUESTER'S MAIL ADDRESS (Room and Building)

A/SCO/DDO 7B-00 Has.

John I. Williamson, Jr.

CIB INDEX SEARCH

Sc =3 Crat=9 TK =3 Bye=3

TO: CHIEF, PSD/ID 2 (For action indicated)

CORAL

SI —__ BYEMAN -

OTHER

(Specify)

TO: CIB

40696

@ginede Gui 1/0/20-

BI DATE (Julian)

68241 Rid

CASE NO.

SUBJECT MEETS ESTABLISHED SECURITY

CRITERIA

FOR SPECIAL ACCESSIS) REQUESTED

PSD 10/2

TO: REQUESTER

kicketen i/ly/2s

SIGNATURE

DATE

15 Jan 75

SUBJECT HAS BEEN APPROVED

ADVISE CIB DATE BRIEFED

ARRANGE WITH CID FOR BRIEFING

CHIEF. CID SIGNATURE

FORM 2018a

USE PREVIOUS

8 - 72

EDITIONS

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

18-10-38)

---

