104-10187-10001, (2022 RELEASE nid THE PRES DENT ‘orn

: “DO” DEAAR

'. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REAR PEVTENED AT

TO CAPILTTEL ON AS

HOUSE

PELE TUTLE/NUNBER/ VOLE: K _KpFAc Teer oe] KDABSIA TA SINTH

Z1b Ye 16,

INCL USIVE DATE!

_Jeustopral UNTT/LOCATION: LA NDG
Root: .
5, 8 ree Oe ;
bs : ; | DELETIONS, TF ANY:__ Seen arc cree
a f ;
a ierararrasinnnaascaiaiis Z
= :

: ~

RTE
RE fi > THAT
CopatiT NAWE) i NG OFFICIAL

—"

DATE
Hoy aurursen|

TV/MOIISAIT ATx9MI03

+04 (8/¥L"9-0S) DIUATIT/ALaHaTT

UW.

no pUCcUM NTS MAY BE COPTED ORF MOVED FRO THIS FT

HINISEVON/YolovaaX

A
:
é
;


Fat 2593

CONFI DEN

NOTIC
an |

‘THIS'FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED: “DO NOT

ADD. ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER, " FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD ‘BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58 .

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

aan



Date» 21) FEBRUARY: 58.

.FROM” MEXICO CITY

_ 1. DIR _ NFO : Ore MeEXI 1129

‘CLASSIFIED _ MESSAGE

009 weajos/uen ;

ie erg
TO «DIRECTOR: ©

ACTION’:

NORTH AMERICAN DRIVING 57 FORD, LICENSE HP 9259 TEXAS 57
ENTERED SOV EMB 11 FEB REMAINED HALF HOUR. REQUEST SOLUTION
LICENSE. SOURCE: LILYRIC. NO DISSEM.

“ep -b-2u/e END.OF MESSAGE

\
SECRET :

REPRODUCTION §Y OTHER THAN T: ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.


| __ssraett 6, __ Wain B8B8_
sceRel

CLASSIFICATION

Jo. : Quel, ti Division -~ |. : ATE:

6 Deconber 1957

: from” ;' Gilet of Station, Nekxieo, Clty
ae “gyudon: eencnac— LILYRIC” = eeauuieaeare

sécunc—. License Plate Solution

1.- on: Novenber 1957 at 1110 hours: two women, driving a late model Buick, = 5 i
california 1998 license plate number B%d-019, entered the’ Soviet Embassy and -
remained approximately 5 minutes.
2. Attached are two copies of three :hotegrayia (1 front view of the
autonobile, 2 views of the'wonen). Tha photographs were mado from a clandeatine
Jocation and if siown outside KVBARK cll the°baciground should be deleted.

3... Tt ds requested thut this’ plete be solved and tho solution, together with
available traces, be sent to this Station,

ke ‘The information in paragraph 1 is being disséninsted locally by memorandum
to the ODENVY representative with a request for any information available from

‘their local offices is _
Uke hors

i : ¢ RBR/eps

Attachments: 3

5 December 1957 a Sate

: 7 Distribution:
i P 4 - Has w/atts
3 - Files

: : sgt, 51-28 A aw CLASSIFICATION 66-25 Sb


QCNT TO
sHA-9883

oat
7

MM
gE



SECRET |

: (men Fiibed Un)

eee

[Peers ove

Ti cCowurwter (include brief deectiption of Tile oF project)

Physical surveillance opstating baco across street from LIMERICK targst

Original of documents entitled LIPSTICK/LTINSTC to be placed in
$0-6-25/3 with carbon copy for 50~4-25/8

3 Fon Ri use omy

© “arrnovaL

THis ei var
DESTINE stavices. Seine}

siento (For Chiel, By

SUGHATURE RI/ANALYSIS

Be Case TITLE nuwoen

THPECTIVE OATE

SECRET

ive se 812 * RI COPY


-7tfe ay

 oTHen AGENCY VOL



PS

Pe eee

i

yp 2593

THIS FIL!

ADD_ANY. DOCUMENTS TO, THIS FOLDER.

DOCUMENTS THAT SI

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

CONFI DENTIAL

NOTICE

E HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RE’

SHOULD. BE INCLUDED IN THIS FO!

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

\
TIRED, DO_NOT

FORWARD CS

ILDER.

vr)



canoes
SECREP

cw arQuNTD AILS

satin Bega roti ra

Boferenses 1 AL ieccrco crey 1996, 5 July 1967
° B, HGU-32922, 29: Angust 1967

(hare vera no RI or Division traces on Manuel AICOLA.

Distributien:
Orig & 1 - COS, Mexteo City

SPATE STAT AAD ER

mes - 5562

CHSIOTION

SRCREP



iinah F”

Chief of Station, Hoxtec City x

Chief, wit Division
REDCOAT/‘Traces' cn Vioitors’ to the soviet zbaacy

‘Aetion Required: | 7¥t. ”
i ce Fe EBRIA-32380, 23 June 1967

hore vere Bo port inant identifiable Hedquirters traces
either Harbort P. PIID3 or Pailtp. raul FRYE.

Touro J. UPSTINS
Distribution: me
Orig & 1 - COS, Hexleo' City
9 JUL tasy

i

HQi3 - 5430 1. July 1967
BecRE?

J. Zerence jue ; 8167
79 SOL (967

c/un/. W. J. Kaufman



SECRET 0 FOREACH. DISS.

— a . “ - - | : £2 JUL WEP

29°April 1903 (age 59). te‘ te'5, feet 11.inches tall, weighs 175 pounds,

i bh. guaro wos no infomskica on DSLAD.in the files af this Office.

5» Your Buresn's representative in Mexico City has been provided
with the infomstion contained in paragraph 1 along vith a set of photos.

|
oe

oS copy

2 DiSSEM

SECRET


"= SEORET NO FORZICN DIS"

SECRET HO FOREGH DISSEM


+ S*SRET HO FOREIGN DISSEN~

~ "paste: 2 | kro Gip-s5, Wit 2981 :
i9PA-32105,°2 June-196T

PROEGCT: “LILYRIC
LIAISON: one ;
c3c1-316/03093-6T
wH/2/J.Zerance/ Jkt

3 July 1967

Distribution:

Orig.& 1 = Addressee
1+ RI (50-6-74/6)
2 + CI/LIA
1 ~ CI/RSA
La M/L/rsxt
: - si/1/chrone

= Mi/1/t.zerance (hold)

7 - MYPO/s

Coordinated with:
seo ee H 1

insecure yedhcc cache eee

TE STD ay

Se
“ ote

Wome Sea ricin, n ras SSN. fh... yerteoutunedST RHE x.

SECRET NO FC22.3N DISSEM.

sisi

ACPA sy ceaih tt


iO FoR:

4
yi

1 DiSytis.

“SECRET i

SSEM

i

fisgatlae

us

a2
ES
c
a
co
on.



“ECRET HO FaeiCH Ds

“gage”; ,ea-32259, 15 dune 1967

BYRIC 2”
LIAISON: “None.
esct-316/03105-67
ini/1/a.zerance/ gue
5 duly 2967

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Atdressee
L = at (50-6-74/6)

Coordinated with:

wi/seeurity__—__-_—--

siofit_____
UW tq
Sty ay
BF . 2.
weep? a



i
!

Wisvene

SECRS

chief, si Divtaton

_ 2 Visitor to the Govier Betavoy in Moxico City: _ poe F

aR Sa
Aebton roger bed Pee

YGXICO CTTT-2455, “aT aity 1967 me
WgUe32155- ¥ June. 1967, pats

maar

Pe 29_Anril 1903
» fal, weighs: 175, pounds,"haa black hair ant brova' ges Ca 1 June 1967
(files of the Retatl-Nerchants’Credtt-Assoctation of Loo Angeles’ were
eearched in the name ‘of fen C. D=LM0 and revealed a file which possibly
might be identical. vith Subject ‘showing thit DSLAO and his wife, hettie,
Yave-been known to them since March 1052. His age vas given as 32.in
1952 (sic), and their most recent address waa given as 2009 Scuth Verbont
Aveme, Los Angeles, in 1962.. Prior restdance vas at 4211 Union Pacific
Avemie, Los Angles, in Narch 1952, ‘for 1s years. lie is originally froa
las Cruces, lev Mexico. In August 1951 the Lockheed Aircraft Comzany,
Burtenk, California, waa his axyloyer, ‘This vas verified in varch 1952.
Credit was satiofactory; criminal and subvareive checks vere negitive.

2. There vere no loadquarters traces’ on Subject. WERCO Headquarters
is being notified and being provided with a set of the photographs.

Liew 2

Distribution:
Orig & 1 = COS, Nexico City

iS
Gy

cros aEreRtRcE TO

ehaeaew DISPATCH

ura 100


suBsKeT Cs ancrican’ Visitor to ene Soviet mabassy

1. _Reforence is nade to our senorandum #12 844, dated
21 June 1967, i :
2. Attached are photographs of tho Amorican looking

young man who visited the Soviet Babassy in Mexico City on
17 June 1967, 0 <

This young man wae driving a. 1967 Volkswagen bus
with cradge a~black California license plates TUZ-945,

“This office.would appreciate receiving any inforaation your

office might furnish regarding the ownership of tho car.

011,882

THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A CONVIDENTIAL SOURCE, iP MUST HUT
BE DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE
WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFVICZ Ii! HEXICO

crry,
Attachment: Photographs

G.H, FARMILANT: vgp :
Distribution; so)
Orig - Addressee w/att. Ate buns atl

1 = 50-2-4/A w/o/att.

1 = 50-8-10/11 w/att. (give to
1 - Memo Chrono w/o/att.
4l-s"Wash Pouch w/att. (give to

Sener Sa geeeees

;
3
3
g





caste

weet Q ver OS a
cLassiry vo rice no, 22S Tg / CCLASSLF LED HE:

, DIRECTOR i
i aeocogt : : ; SJms2mO507E ©

Le LILYRIC REPORTS ANERICAN LOUKING aN VISITED SOVIET

‘ HeEASSY 3 JULY 1967. FRON 192g TG.1932 HOURS. SUBJECT 4AS

| DRIVING 1965 WHITE VALLANT ¥ITH 186? TEKAS PLATES. NUK 945.

i 2. INFORILNS LOCAL LNEGO AND ASKING LHERGO RESOLVE aaa
| CAR OWNERSHIP.

SECRET

; at

: i : gee 7H

: LILY

ye
go sel c7



he Sammesntre futtete oom tees
unidentified mon uho oppoared to-be Americans wore

s ‘the Soviet Esbessy in Mexico Citys. Thay sore

arriving A ‘Ford Mustang with Tosns Loonse plates CEO.

‘Their visit lested about five uinutes. A est of photos of tho

thrée ‘sen are provided your Bureau for identification, oni this
Offics vould appreciate being.

it

imforeed if any of the sen in the
pootes 1s pocktively identified. -
2 Purther investigntioa revesled that these plates wore

oeaigned too 1967 ‘two-door Mustong owed by Antonio
BCHEGARAY'C, d¥., af {1519 Borth-Stenton, Apartuent A, El Faso,

ECHEUARAY, dated 28 and 30 July 1952). Dur Bub sock, 18 eetohly
tot identical with your Bubject} however, he could be the soa
‘traveled with SCHEEGARAY and his. vifo in 1952

who reportedly’
and was et that tims o “youg bay.”
3. Your Bureau's representative in Mexico City has bean
with the informtion conteined in paregraph one along
with © est of the photos.
5. ‘Thin information 1s ade avoilable to your Buresu with
the understanding that. it will receive no further dissesination
without prior approval fron this Office.

roses 3)

CSC1316/02654-67 ¢S copy
SECRET, NO FOPEIGN Dissray



haste’; ees, 22 py a6 ee
Promect; Line | ‘a

 EIATSON: “None

CSCI-316/02654-67
WH/1/ J. Zerence/ jee

“Tome 3967 :

|
Dictribution: |
Orig & 1 Addressee!
1. Br (30-6-11/6)
1-
1 - CI/RRA
L = wi/l/rexr
1 - 1i/1/chrono
1 = Mii/1/Jane’ (hola)
1 wi/Po/a

Coordinated with:

83/o/wn ‘eet
Pe
Wi/Security. z CapSbee wenn &

-2-

\eranre yoo:



DIRECTOR : : : a; =
: : : 21 dun 67 95119
REDCOAT ‘
iy :
I. LILYPIC @EPORTS ANFFICAN LOOKING Mat VISITED
SOVIET EPASSY 17 JUNE 1145 TO-1155 HOUPS, ALSO TooK PHOTOS

Fi
/

OF OUTSIDE. WAS DRIVING 1967 VOLKSUAGEW.PUS WITH ORANGE ow

WHITE CALIFOPNIA Tacs TUf-945.

2. INFCR™INS LOCAL LREPCO AXD ASKING LNERG
OWNERSHIP CF cag. 7 i
SECRET

aT



‘STANGER CASE.

(aan GePcacts Foev To-1H
vase sa 1OL wien way or useo. Ga



a) pAiouM FOR?
FROM: i
‘SUBSECT:

1. “nef
.9 guns 1967.

gQ. A sensitive, reliable

“photo very close):
.- “the Soviet Eabass
7 Sob 25 -Aprit 1967.

He left im a taxi.

3, Reference reported
available on the

SECRET he
‘y@ gune_1967 i
: i
ue. Nathan L. Ferris, Legal Attache

erence is Bade to our memorand

Visitor to the Soviet Bnbassy |

uni #11610 dated |

rtod thet o man whose

source repo
pat of tho individual who visited

y resembles t!
1967 visited the Soviet Embassy

y on 9 March

He was st the

9 Harch 1967. The similarity

one who visited t

close.

4. Attached are phot
goviet Bubassy on 35 Apr:

quia ImroruaTion 18. Frost A 00!

ndividual “‘wio visited the Soviet

he Soviet Babassy on

NFIDENTIAL . IT BUST
IDE YOUR OFFICE WITHOUT PRIOR

Embassy from 1028 to 1052 hours.

‘all the information this office had

Embassy on
this individual and the
25 April 1987 is vory

tographs of the men who vinited the
41 1967 for your retention.

NOT

BE DISSEMINATED IW WHOLE OUTS!
APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFFICE IN BEXICO CITY.

Attachment!
Photos

Diatributioa:

Original ~ Addressee, ©

1 = S0-2-4/A,

1 = 30-8-10/11, wo

2 = Hexo

Chron
Cy) = Wash pouch, watt.

INDEX

GeyaeetseT7
+ C10 STAKGER | |

Labos evil

w/o

I

# 11832

eset 36 o2p-tZ -67

nEBPnSPRneSSS S50 SER SEEEESS=res!




“chase aarce ProctsenG ACHON

SPATCH [=s oe 7s

Chief, WH Division

Chief, SB Division

Tia

Chief of Station, Hexico City

wont
REDCOAT - Unidentified Visitors to Soviet Embassy

"ACTION REQUIRED « REFERENCES

REFERENCE; MEXICO CITY-1413

1. Attached are LILYRIC photographs of the unidentified
man and woman who visited the Soviet Embassy on 1] May 1967.
They were seen driving a white Comet with red top with Texas

license JBV 884,
2, Also attached are copies of the memoranda sent to local

LNERGO on the Subject. A
Soe A Locontlont! Pi

‘ for/Willard C, CURTIS

Attachments:
1, Photos
2, Copies of Menos

Distribution:
2 - CWH, w/atts., H/W Fi
1-CSB,.w/o atta. yoo Yo = fof

tT ee 1 He é-19h

Giwaten SeuaOL an MUKRER Dare

HMMA - 32259 15 JUNE 1967

‘GLASsinVCaTiCM WE FILE RUMOR

S EC RET 50-8-10/11



FOR CHIEF, Wit DIVISDN

ATTACHMENT 1 TO wow ee 7

dated £3 *- 22 1

;
y
i ‘
“Ss
i .


on Se es ee ot

Q  $PTACIDBNT 2. TO LMA, ard i . a
te a dated. TJs Pel oP ae

17. Hay 1967

MERORANDUN FOR:
FYON:
SUBJECT: Unidentified Visitors to Soviet Eabassy

1. A gensitive, reliable source has reported that on |
11 May 1967 betwoen the hours of 1113 to 1126 a Mexican

looking san and woman visited the Boviet Rubsssy.

9, -‘Phis couple vere seen arriving in a White Const with
@.red top with Texas licenses plates JBV 884 (1966).

‘3. . A photograph of tho abcve individuals will be
furnished to your office when prints are available.

THIS IRVORMATIGN IS FROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE, {[T HUST Ror
BK DISSENINATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFPICE
YITEOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THS ORIGINATING OFFICE IN KEXICO CITY.

# 11726

Distribution:
Original ~- Addressee

|
i
i
|
i
i
i
|
1
|
i
H
H
i
|



Uatdentified Visitors to Soviet mabasoy

“1, “Reference ie nade to our mensrantim #11726, dated 17

any 1967."

3. Attached are photographs of the unidentified Hexican
looking man and woman who visited the Soviet Embassy on 1] May
1967, They-were driving a white Comet with rod top, Texas

plate JBV (1966).

3. Qur Headquarters inforsed us that investigation revealed
that’ these plates: were-assigned to a 1985 Kercury Comot, two
door, owned ‘by Gaston ‘Levis SOLERES, P.O. Box 264, Laredo,

Texas. Credit Bureau and police checks of that name were
negative. Our Headquarters filea contained no information on

SOLERES. : 7
4, Your Headquarters has been informed of tho contents
of the above.

RIS INFORMATION 18 FROH A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE. If BUST HOT
BE DISSENIAATED IN WHOLE O8 IK PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE WITHOUT

" PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFFICE IN HEXICO CITY.

# 11824

Attachnent: Photos

15 June 1967



hte, Division
CAEN.
YAsIEOr# to the Soviet Bibdody in Mexteo City

MIGROFILMEO,
Jue'2§ 1967

Ae MEXICO CITY 1082, :2 May 1067
w6r 20. SER: 7

“Be Hed-33981, A May

ord Tedas Liccase plates’ cus ‘ste Gidtiiial to a A067 ford”
two-door Mustang ‘ved. by’ Antonio /@EcHEUARAY'C., Jr., of€1418 North
rinetit A, £1 Paso; . Tse? =

2 Te only nfovetion arate So our F468 vere to LaEEDD

reports: _ &
7

A. One dated 28 July 1952 reported thst an untested source
of unknown reliability had advised that Antonio BCHEEGARAY, ovner
cd a Juarez night club in Juirez, Mexico, reportedly left tint eity

25 or 26 July 1952 for Puebla, Mexico, to attend an S~day Lions i
Club conventica Ie vas ctased thot SCHEEGARAY was occcapanied by :
bio“vife and yomg-con ant that they planned to proceed to Spain
from Puebla... The ‘cource added that Mrs. BCHESGARAY vas allegedly ;
| : carrying « @ali roll of micyofilm concealed.in the heel of her !
! hoe.’ “The acurce vas unable to ‘furnish further inforsatioa as to
the content or origin of the microfilm or the departure date and
node of travel of the Subject and his family to Spain.

B. & 30 July 1952 report sourced to the same individual
5 above advised that ECHEEGARAY, oka ECHECARAY, visited Spain about

Continued...

Distribution:
I Orig &1- C08, Kexico City

(nbSS REFERENCE TO DSPATCN BUG. ARO wOMOER

szerze 1

RI i 13. be “6?

Chrono :
ofFice syusae

‘mifsecarity 7



or other contrabaid. “It vag alsd"indicated that
.Bubject wei" proceed to Merida; Kexico,. snd ‘then travel to. Havana,
Cuba, via From ‘Bnvana bo: vould proceéd to Liebaa,: Portugal,”
vie 'Tbortan Atrlinea. . - Birdie

a year agg, (ate) ond vas sunpécted by tne’ Bysintoh Geniral Starr of .
seougg) ing :

Distribution:
Orig & 2 - COS, Mexico City

wre IPA

wove
MECEIAER

CUA STFICATION - Cos
Sta vse previous eorrion. . |
aECREP conn 2of 2



. t) ‘Divectar. oe
“Federal Bureau’ of Investigation
Attention: wr. 3. a Papich

Tear | Deputy Dizceter ti. Plane

SUBJECT: ( Vinitors to ths Soviet Bubasgy, Murico City

IVEOR MAY es Summnge an EST

le eal una Wena Geieaie a one teak Gin ced bon ees
looking man and voinn driving a white Const with red top, Texas
plata JbV-034 (1966), visited the Soviet Ebasay op 1 may 1967
botwson the hours of 1113-to'1126. :

2 itoittastiea rovoaled that theee plates vore apgtznad
to's. 81965 Hereury Count, tro door, ovned by Gaston touts LZRES,
LP Oe Pox '264, Laredo, Texas, Crodit Bureau ami police checks
of that mmo sare nagsiive.

3. The files of this Office contained no information oo

4. Your Bureau represontative in Kexico City has beon in-
Pape Ca aarp tpt marie rere rare roars
to your Buresu with the wlerstanding that it vill receive no |

farther diusemtoation without pricy approval fron this Office.

C3CI=316/0289-67

eranrr ors



SERRET FE

BASIC: NEXTOO CITY 3413, 13, May 1967

PRomuct: LINPTY/LILYRIC
_BIATSON: None

_ @961-316/00889-6T

Wi/1/J.Zerence/ jae

* 26 May 1967

Distribution:
Orig & 1 « Addressee
2 = RI (50-6+74/6)

1 + WR’ Chrono

1 - n8/2/Jane (hold)
L = WV PO/A

Coondinated vith:
“S/O/WH

WH/ Security ay

SGO- b-



jews gunwng ob

Prakash)

lef, WH Div!

Sant

2 xsooat ASHE Y/R “Visitors to the Soviet Bobosty tn) Moxieat

Trae GR Ea
etton Required: ra : eae :
Referenco ©: MEXICO CITY 143, 13 may 2967

ee = nan" ‘were, negative.
“mare re 20 Boudqunstare traces oh SOURS. :
3. ‘Thie inforustion ie being unde eratlable to UnERO,

* Headquarters. ae

Distribirtion:
Orig & 1 - COS, Nexico City

1oF 53 van ramnove sorion.
wo.tee

3
i
i
é
j
3
E
2
§


14-c00q0

_— SECRET NGF or DISSE"

MICHOPILMEO” 7
JUL > 1967

SOc. MICRO. SER.

To Director.” : ot eae
Federal Bureau of Tavestigation : :
Chet ee : Attention: Mr, 5. oo Papich

FROM: Deputy Director “tor Plans
SUBJECT: “Visitors to the Soviet Embassy, Mexico City

1s A reliab’ sensitive source reported on 20 April
1967 that an unidentified American man -acconpanied by an
7 ‘wo: BBAdentifies Bexican man and a child entered the Soviet
t i “Embassy in Mexico City. They were scen arriving tn a 1967
brown and cream colored Ford Galaxie 500 station wagon with
¥ U. B. lirense plates NIV 858, ‘The State was not identifiable,
= a but the plate bad orange nusbers against a black background.
The visit lasted about ten minutes, j-7 wre ts FE]

é

aan 2, Inveatiga Fevealed that the orange and black
license plated (probably Calffornia pla es) NIV-858 are | i
“<<registered to Bert Salvatore ‘BONANNO bortr.30_January_1935 i :
or to Betty Lou BOHANKO born 10_ February 1936 for use on a ;
fag 1985 Ford station wagon. This vehicle is not registered H 7

se be in California for ‘1967, but wam registered in 1966 aa above. ' j
“ At that time the: BONANNOs were residing at 336 Yeot 11th ' t

Street, Pittsburg, California. Hee :

3 “As of January 1967, Bert BORANNO was employed by
the Mexican Olympic Committee. Previously he was employed
by the Pittsburg Unified School District as a teacher and |

Sosy =SnnSFa" ee iaeese

previously by Dow Chemical of Pittaburg. Betty was formerly (eeeaee
employed as an accountant/auditor by Contra Costa County at Teas
Martinez, California. F iiesaaa|

: | i F

seoner no Foes er Hse

Red i TE th On a ee


Gh:

OSS wt

4, As ‘of Feor
” Betty BONANNO wi
Credit: reports 08 thetr an:

8: The files of this oftice contained no “inforaation a

“on either of: he above-mentioned individuala.

‘Your Bur ry Fopresentative in Hexico catty has
te of para; h 1 above, and
“ this inforuation is. being made available to your Bureau
with the understanding that it. will receive no further
diasenination without prior approval from this Office.

C8C1-316/02374-67

18 May 1967

BASIC. : MEXI CITY 1240, 27 April 1967
PROJECT: LILYRIC

LIAISON:

PILE : 50-6-74/6

1 ¢- o/b



i
i

7 STORET BG FE

Pye ieaih ici
CSCI-316/02374-67

18 May 1967

WH/1/J. Zerance/sas

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee.

1 - RI (50-6-74/6)
= CI/LIA
= WH/1/MEXI
~ WH/1/Chrono
- WH/1/Jaone (hold)
= WH/PO/A :

eb ti

Coordinated with:
SB/0/WH
WH/Sec’

ak



Tae

S E°C RE

REFERENCE: MEXICO CITY=1455

1, Attached are photographs, obtained through LILYRIC,
of the unidentified visitor who visited the Soviet Embassy on
16.May 1987 between the hours of 1300 and 1330 hours.

2, Also attached is a copy of the memorandum sent to
local LNENG) on the Subject.

~tor/Willard C. CURTIS

Attachments:
A. Photos
B. Nemo

Distribution:
v2- CWH, w/att., H/Ww : ri
1 - CSB, w/o att. a s  Sefeofjwi

fescr 316 [ed oF 3s 6 Jai,

A“ a“ 7 Ys

Hmm ia
£5 COPY.

‘DSPATEN HUGO, UD RAGE? DATE

HMMA = 32115 1 JUNE 1967

SRT WS FILE MoUBER
SECRET 50-8-10/11


4
‘

“Syears_of-age

Afornia license’ plates JER 824.

“BECRET.

othe

24 May 1967

Unidentified Visitor to Soviet. Babsesy”

2, Attached are photos of this unidentified visitor.

Distribution:
Original ~ Addre:

l= 50-2-4/A

1 - 50-8-10/11 with photos

1_= Memo Chrono

23 May 1967

THIS. INFORMATION $3 FROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE.
DISSEMINATED: IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE WITHOUT PRIOR

APPROVAL OF THE ORIGYNATING OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY.

SECRET.

911,758

V reliable source has reported that on 16 Ma:
jours of 1300 #0 1330 an- unidentified maa circa 60
thin,-grey bair and.wearing. glosses.-visited the
Soviet Bubassy.' This man wag driving 1 1961 tan Pontiac with Cal-

IT MUST NOT BE

y





proms)
$2 B “CORK Tee
— : om TCROFILME!
Chief of Station, Hexico Cth. yur g— tse

te “/Chict

Savane

- 10 -nedCOATZVisitors to the Soviet. Fabassy, Mexico City > :

Te Tiom REQUIRED -REFERCRCES 7

Action Required: FYI behecag ft ‘
Reference y. MEXICO CITY °1240;. 27 April 1997 fag A pe

“orange and black license plat ming ro
30_January:

Headquarters. tobe California plates)

« registéred to Bert. Salvatore: ' BONANNO bo}

¢°1935 or Betty "Lou-#) ONANNO: borir.10.-February. 1999 for.use ieee
on a 1965 Ford: Station Wagon, This vehicle “1s not registered

p California’ for 1967, but was registercg, ja 1966 as above.

At that ‘time the “BONANNO' ss’ were residing Has 36 West Lith

Strect. Pittsburg, California " 7 :
7 a

2, As of January 1967, Bert BONANNO was employee
the Mexican Olyupic Committee. Previously. he was employed
by the Pittsburg Unified School District as a teacher and
previously by Dow Chemical of Pittsburg. Betty was formerly
employed as an nccountant/auditor by Contra Costa County
at Martinez, California.

3.. As of February 1967 the residence of Bert and,
Betty BONANKXO wagjiaso Victoria 88, jicxlco Cif. Dey
Credit: reports on the namca of Hert and Betty BONANNO are
favorable and there are no police and subversive records

on then,
4. There were no Headquarters traces on either individual,

5, This information is being made available to LNERGO

Headquarters.
a 2 uatrh Je UTSTINE
Distribution: 85 HAY Jos.
2 = COS, Mexico City Se" 1962 7 ;
es eT oY aT trance wD HGR ae 7
(5.68 HDIMW= 15.495 18 May 1967
‘CLASSIFICA. TFT tar Fae susee
}. SEORE’ 50-6-74/6
ORI NATING
cnet RRO sr we
WH/1 J. Zerance sas A167
RI CcooRDINATINO
Chrono orice stupa. oar erect

wH/Securi y 5/23 Ltbrcere

OS af 0 7 fate
ij Se uy

2 eteasing j ;

” GM Yee Bei male
manor : SPAT CH



SECRET 1723202 elt

DIRECTOR

REDCOAT

Le

LILYRIC REPORTS

yp 60 YRS OLD,

THIN, GRE
FROM 1300 TO
TaN PONTIAC wit

2.

© REPORTING

SECRET

eT

Y HAIR AND WEARIEG GLASSES»
133@ HOURS V6 MAY 1967+
H CALLFORSIA LICENSE PLATES JER 824.

To Local LNERGOs
Secase

E Mexico CITY 1a55

YALDENTIF IED MAN CIRC W

VISITED SOVIET EMBASSY

HE WAS DRIVING .1961



cr

ACTON AULD” REFUTES : : aes sane pes oY

vin
i 2
aa

References: A. MEXICO. CITY-1500, 2 Nay 1967 |<
B,._ RERECTOR-00429, 11 Nay 1967 S—

1. Attached are photos, obtnined-throush LILYRIC, of a : ;
Negro male,, later identified through LIFNGRACS surveillance, E
as being registered at the Hotel Margil under the namo a ieee

6 ro
Anton -*JACHISON or Srourson

3

2. Also forwarded are copies of the neroranda forwarded
to Local LNERGO on the subject.

for/Willant C, CURTIS

Attachments!
L = Photos for C/WHD
1 + Copies of Mecoranda for C/WHD

Diatribution:
2.= C/WHD w/atts.
1 - C/SB w/o atts. 1SC TE

CROSS REFERENCE TO

PAU TE et nora, TEM, snaniyetapet HE MN tn taaudiastmascemarteemouseny .eser,

Wate ian.



i)

ATTACHMENT TOr ” 15014-31098, 15 May 1907

erp

oA age /

: 1. Acenzitiva, cslfzte source t
: | 1967 a Kerra pele clrsa &:
i 20 5 Soviet ile wae is

Lstered at the’ lictcl
: Tewsa le
i Monterrey he deas uct <

i 3. A photosraph of
office when ‘prints are aval:

Lm 50-de%/8 :
Qisu-3-10/1) CR ET

2 Mey TCT

68: COPY.

Arr Qt tam Asis

VAtdenti fod Vinitce co the Covet Esbapey -

PLL, 65%

4

oan


“* ATTACHMENT TO HYMA 31949, 15 May i967

1 Unidentified Visitor to the Soviet Rabassy

1. Reference 10 dade to cur sscornntin 112694 on the
sane subject, dated 3 May 1967. ;

2, Attached are photographs of the Nemo mle, identified
as boing registered at the Hotel Margil under tho. naze Anton
dachison or Iachison, who entered’ tho doviet ubassy on 23

April 1967,

‘THIS TMVORUATTON TS PROM A CONPIDAITIAL SOURCE. Tr MUST NOT BE
DISSEXMMATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART QUTSID2 YOUR OFFICE WITHOUT
PRIOK APPROVAL OF THE ORDOINATING OPFICE IN MEXICO CITY,

Original ~ Addressee 912,723
L= 50-268/a ;

1 - 50-8-10/12

W- Wash Pouch

1 - RI Chrono

ESeeaeeaes



ATTACHMENT TO: HAMA-31998, 15 May 1967 .
To: chiet/wD
FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City ™:



SUBSE > ty Unideakifie’ Viaitor to doviet abassy tn Haitco City. i

Pe gS re rie Stace meses at aE Lessa Pal

N
ea eee

- i
: : 3. Both noses ware mm through the files of this Office vith naga-
H tive results.

4, Your Burega representative in Mexico City has Leen inforsed of
thio information emi has also been provided vith a copy of the photograph.
if Thiy information 1a being mde available to your Burveu with the umior
: standing thst it will receive no further dissexinstion vithous pricr - Pt
approval of this Ofrice. :

MICROFILMED
JUL 25 1967

DOE. MICRO. seg,



BASIC: “ mna31998

eal iimnic fas

eacx-ns/oest-6t

: w/3/3- Zarence/ Sxt.

1 dune 1967

Distribution: - :
orig & a = Addressee
= RI (50-6-74/6)
i ~ CT/LIA
1 - CI/RLA
1- Vay UMEXL
1 - $i/1/chro
1 + Wi/1/Jene (hola)
L - wi/20/A

Coordinated with:

wH/Security (fie gt fe tA

wil/coa/cT.



© pnotod of Unidentified Visitors to
a ORD - FTO See

REFERENCE: MEXICO CITY 1240, 27 april 1967"

1. Attached are photos obtained through LILYRIC of the
two men and a child who were ‘seen visiting the Soviet Embassy,
on 20 April 1967. They were ‘driving a brown and cream-colored
Ford Galaxi 500-Station Wagon, With U.S. license plates NIV 858.

(state not identifiable). .

ef the memoranda sent to local

2, Also attached are copies

LNERGO on the subject.
oF

aati: Be owe?

Attachment:
A, = Photos
B, - Nemoranda

Distribution;
= C/WUD w/atts.
1 - /SB w/o/atts.

cs COPY

DSPATON SUED. AID MMSE
HMMA-320521

exsreaTCn
SECRET

22 May 1967
as FE ER
50-8-10/11



MFREWITH ATTACHMENT TO:

HMMA-320SL, 22 May 1967



by.
@.1967 brown aod erean:
Aiea plates NIV 638. .The

‘had oreoge numbers againet

2, A photograph of tha ‘sbove eco with be furatshed to your
office when prints aro available.

THIS INFORMATION 18 aot A COMPIDENTIAL sOURCE, IT MUST NOE BE
DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE O28 IN PART OUTSIOS YOUR OrFIce WITHOUT ria
APRaWAL OF TES CAIGDUATING GFFICE Iu MEXICO CITY. -

BeECRET

Diaeributioa: Original = Addressee
Di Aye 5026/4

= 50-8-10/11 ; :
1'= Memo Chroso a

. 1 = Wash Pouch
oan wT :

SO ecco cee VeN en

; cs i

Attachment (B)

HEREWITH ATTACHMENT
To: moe

HMMA-32051, 22 May 67

6s COPY
a s2a0s] ee :

Ee RTP TT atlas

Seay

ae

2
b:
z

:
:
4
E:
cE

Shea, SFoccnre aie ett ah pee wi


supseer : Unidentified Visitors to Soviet. Eubassy

1. Reference’ is made to our memorandum #11684 on the
sane subject, dated 28 April 1967.

2, Attached are photographs of the two men and ay énita
who visited the. Soviet. Babassy on 20 April 1967 driving a
brown and cream-colored Ford Galaxie 500 Station Wagon with
U.S. license plates NIV 858 (state not identifiable).

# 11,747

THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE, IT MUST NOT
BE. DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE. OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICB -
WITHOUT: PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFFICE IN MEXICO

cITY,

Enclosure;
Photographs

Distribution:
Orig ~ Addresseew/enc,
L = 50-2=4/A °
1 - 50-8-10/11
24 Wash Pouch’ HMMA-32052
1 - Memo Chrono

Sore ofl

wo He aA 1 B87



7 : ee
Ob ( conF -wriaL CO secrer «
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

ne Mharten tothe Sete Lor basyy My.

© unctasstrien

— 16/02142. say
9 May 1967

ane

‘onnicer’s | COMMENTS [Number och comment to show from whom
UATIALS | tm whom. Oraw 0 line octous column otter each comment)

MicROFILMEO
WH/FI j Heel i
ah mw, 1967

SB/0/WH a pee.

WH/SEC

- OS BLO MRSS* Ce] secret 7 cNFIpenTiAL () IRVERHAL UNCLASSIFIED


3 . Director
Fedoral Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr, 3, J. Papich
“ WROM,-.: Deputy Director for Plans
OWI EN UE Le wpe St

the Soviet Babassy, Nexico cxty Cr

& _
SUBJECT: © Visitor to

1. A reliable, sensitive source reported on 9 March 1967,
that an Anericam-looking male stopped at the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico City and. talked with the Soviet Consul, Valentin
Sergeyevich LOGINOY, The man did not enter the Eabassy, He
was driving what appeared to be a late wodel Buick Electra,
bearing Florida tags 10-5-67776,

2. Investigation revealed that these 1966 Florida tage
were issued to Lester Linton and Kthel STANGER of Pompano
Beach, Florida for use ona 1964 Buick sedan.

8. Lester Linton /STARGER was bora’ 5 D
ig retired and according to the current: (March
directory resides a§41960 8, E, 16th Strect, Pompano Bench,

—Florida,;telephone 941-8872.

b. Ethel HcBride BTANGER was bor!
and resides with her husband in Flarida,

ce. Police and credit checks were non-derogatory.

3, There was no information on either of the STANGERS
is the files of this Office,

4. Your Bureau representative in Eexico City has been
Ainforned on the contents of paragraph 1 sbove, and this

information is being wade available to your Bureau with the
understanding that it will receive no further disseuiostion

without prior approval from this Office.

C8CI-316/02142-67 lapen

%
SECRET NM tS



@Sc1-316/02142-67 |.
“g@ May 1967
WH/1/3. teknace/ens ede Saute ae

Digtri by + 01 or fees y 7
rig ddressee EB See Srec ct esis f
& RI.-(50=6-74/6) © 2
CI/LIA - :
CI/REA
WAU A /MEXE

1
Jane (hold)
WH/PO/A

Pee

Coordinated with:...
‘SB/O/WH.

WH/SEC Ll os

BASIC: MEXICO-CITY 1042, 10 April 1967 (1N-41593)
PROJECT: LILYRIC :
LIAISON: None : :

-2- pa



eee tall “~

| é
IFIED MESSAGE Z~ _voraa contes £7

"Director

REDCOAT
le LIGYRIC REPCRTS HEXICAt Looxtiie aw AND WORAN

JSV 854 CORR :

DRIVING WHITE CONET WITH. RED TUP, TEXAS LIVEN
/VISITED SOVIET EWSASSY 11 MAY BETWEEN HOURS OF 1115S TO 1126,
2. REPORTING TO LOCAL LhERGU. 7

SECRET
eT

STORET, :

so-6-7YE
[3MAVE]


eo

{aseer a 3 7 at
¢: REDCOAT/Photos of Unidentified Visitors to Soviet Embassy

re Res soc 3 ae
: ya
|. REFERENCE: MEXICO CITY 1282, 2 May 1967

Attached are photographs obtained through LILYRIC of the

three unidentified visitors to the Soviet Embassy on 26 April

1967, Forwarded also is a copy of the memorandum forwarded to *

the local LNERGO representative on Subject,

Attachment:
1 - Photos
2 = Memo

Distribution:
L2°— C/WHD w/att.. #1 & 2
1 - C/SB w/att, #2 only icc Ts 5

291/316 -caesy-o7

Be rvo-15 $33

&
RTH Ta TS wo
HMMA-31981
SasTR
SECRET

11 May 1967

wes FILE RUMOR
50-8-10/11



“Attachmont #1

FOR: Chief, WH Division :
FROM: ‘Chief of Station, Moxico City

HEREWITH ATTACHMENT TO; | *
HWA-31981, 11 ay 1967.



Attachment #2

i “ET

11 May 1947

MEMORANDUM FOR: Bites!
FROM ' ~ i :
SUBJECT : Unidentified Visitora to Soviet Bnbassy

t
‘

1, Reference is made to cur momorandum on the same
gubject, dated 3 Hay 1967,

2, Attached are photograpls of the three unidentified

men who appeared to be Americans who visited the Soviet
Embassy on 26 april 1967 driving a 1967 Ford Mustang with
Texas license plates CLS 464,

@ 41,717

Enclosure:
Photographs

THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCS, IT MUST
NOT BE DISSENINATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE
WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFFICS IN MEXICO

CITY,

Distribution:
Orig - Addressee (w/enc)
1 = 50-2-4/A
1 - $0-8-10/11 (w/ene)
1 = Wash Pouch (IMYA-31981, w/enc)
1 = Yemo Chrono



|
|
|

DISPATCH

Chief of Station,

Chief, WH Division

ener

OQ) sEncoaT/Visitor to the Sovict Bmbassy,

TESS SRT TREY

Action Required: FYT :
References i A. MEXICO CITY 1042, 10 April 1967
RB. HMMA-31734, 4 April 1967) 0G |
: i fet

1, 1966 Florida license plate 10-¥-67776 was assigned
for use on a 1964 Buick Sedan owned by Lester Linton and
Ethel STANGER of Pospaco Beach, Florida. Police and credit
checks were non-derogstory. one

M

: a. Lester Linton *STANGKR was born ,5 December 1893

and is retired, The gurrent Giaveh 1967) telephone directory
lists him as residing at 1960 S, 5, 16th Strect, Pompano Reach,j2:
Telephone 941-8872.‘

b. Ethel McBride *STANGER, his The, was born
G 9 November 1894 and resides with her husband in Florida,

2 There were no Headquarters traces on either of

the STANGERS,
3. This inforeation was made avialable to LNERGO

Nendquarters,
“)
(any
js
Mh
taura 3//yrstiNE
Distribution

2 - COS, Mexico City

1aMav 1967, ie

eS \ pq

SUE-15471 8 May 1967

Wes FILE RUUOER

casnenfy
Bacto

59-6-74/6

RI F a, Gorance as 4167
Chrono

1 DEPEECS Moe

ECEASNG
Torrates soutone

H piatsitae 2s
1

wi (wo Rag

ae =<" T DISPATCH

SAL farce ka

1
|
|
i



i __ ACCOMPANIED BY AN UNIDENTIFIED MEXICAN MAH AND “A CHIL

DIRECTOR
REDCOAT. LGINPROVE He :
ow 26 APRIL” 1967. AN UNIDENTIFIED AMERICAN MAW

“Te soviet EnpassYs THEY “WERE SEEN ARRIVING IN A 1967 apove AND
CREAM COLORED FORD GALAXIE 580 STATION WAGON WITH U.S. {rcense
PLATES NIV 658, STATE NOT IDENTIFIAPLER PLATES HAD ORANGE
WuNBERS”AGALNST BLACK BACKGROUND / THEIR VISIT LASTED ABOUT

TEN MINUTES. : eipary

foe
sECRET ; ce
Bt

ae wi ae sh GS 4 Ina, : ; :
w aser- sifositeet op @ Bot : ol,

27 APR ED:



“ REFEREMCE? “ MBXICO crty-0699
_ Attached is @ Copy of& memorandum dated 30.March 1967
gent. to local LNBRGO regarding Subject, The source of the

attached photographs is LILYRIC, 9 March 1967.

‘for/Willard C, CURTIS

Attachment:
Photos and Memo

Distributions

Q = CWH, w/att., B/W
1 - CSB, w/o att. [CC

Ae b>

cyria o .
pray o? Sean _- A

see us

IDES

os. COPY:

‘4 “APRIL 1967

HUMA - 31724

TGespate SHO, AND HOREDER |

CSS RATION es ruc UME

s EC RET 50-8-10/11





 gandenti fied Visitor

cae négorence 19 nado to cur sonorondum on the O5R?

gabjoot, dated 17 Kerch 1907+ -
 =g, attacked ere ‘two. photographs 9
tho Boviet Eabassy e i

the fovith piorida tags @ SO-E—TTIG,

qHis 2

rot 16 PROM A CONFIDENTIAL BOURC!

to the Soviet Eabassy

the aan who visited

ia Bezico City on 9 Barch 1967 éfivies

B, AT BUBT BOT

SFORUA’
BE DIGSHSINATED IH UROLE O8 35 PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE
@ITEOUT PRIOA APPROVAL ‘OY TBE ORIGINATING OFFICE i

C3tz.

@ 12617
Attachsentt i
Photoe

Distribution: H
Original - Addressee, w/att., HV
1 © 50-2-6/4, w/o
le §0-8-10/11, w/ott.
1 = p-11712, w/o
| = Memo Chron, ¥/0
“ge Gash pouch, v/att.

50 yarch 1967



)
|
t
i
1

a eee

iT Maren 1967,

meoRaNpum Yor: . lr. Wathan L. Ferris, Legal Attache.

= Ys. Sa. wonpits' Fellapie source has , reported that on 9

* Mareh® 1967'9 man’ who:Appemred to be an Anerican stopped at.
the Soviet Embassy lexico City to talk with Soviet Consul
‘Valentin Borgeyevich LOGINOV, . The'man did not enter the
Soviet Embassy. Hé was driving what appeared to be a late
modo] Buick. Electra th Plorida tags #@ 10=-0-7776.

“ga ‘photograpli:: of ‘the above man will be furaished to
your oftiee when prinis are available.

‘THIS. INPORUATION I8 FROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE, IT BUST NOT
BE DISSEMINATED. IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE
WITHOUT. PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGIRATING OFFICE IN MBXICO

city.

@ 11381

Distribution:
Original - Addressee .~
1 = 30=-2<4/A
1 = 50-8-10/11
+ Hemo Chron
¢ ‘= Yash pouch
17 Harch 1967 a

oe Visitor ito Soviet med



SE-G’R E T-1523322 CITE MEXICO city J AY

DIRECTOR. fee a
REDCOAT

1. PER
TO BE LATE MODEL SUICK ELECTRA WITH FLORIDA TAGS 10-¥-7776
STOPPED. AT SOVIET ENSASSY AND TALKED WITH CONSUL véteutin s
LOGINOV. MAN DID NOT ENTER EMBASSY. /

Re falbeeainl “

HERREPHERERHING LOCAL LNERGO.
Ste RET
8T

LYLVRIG OPS


Aetion Roaiired! Por Your Information

Le In Twhemter iat Ragen A. DERINTA, Prinetpel Agent_for the LIEMPTY,
prepare a serurty resign treloding fre": Latons,y on
the art SUITED afd CALA Snob vrtee Vieandte Son let:
wldte of theater axiateawes The follwing veracrapoy cdntatn a eltently
ted yorsivn of CEMENT F = report, which tas rwetved an 28 Deceaber Ly.
Death enemies iow SERENE! @ ant are ac fot ady

Erle, vat geen te

Alc.

pe Un Ate orenert new laration LILYRIC isthe nevest of the photc bases
under wy crmtined, Acura to LIBYPY- trare hen been nc initeatian of
frtarest of any acrt oy the seviete in the faniiv's gove to the new spartacnt
tw wma thare tn the just acy abdy of intoreet ur peculiar bohavier on their
(Soviet ia} part vith regard to the ald dare aw the possibility that they misht.
be adder photo varvetllante.

3, Ton qver tur the work carried on ty thle base fo cont since the
vite, LIRMPFY-18, whe tows sost of the work bas no trouble ta justifying
hor preasnce at her all cf ths tive, The em, LISIPFY-27 16 0 midtcal
atuaent anf attente hia clasese regularly ant can justify bis boure as
study houre, (Ne continues to be an atcellem student ona tac exeapted fros
erunitatinns at the vesd-of thie, hia. securt rear iu wedieal school, Aetaally,
na etudten must of the night), LIEMPPY.1! meriires no cover aa he hao a
Tulictii Job as onsunition manager for a large concer and be usualiy-cakeo
ip mertinge with TRONE «in Nios way to or fre warts : i

cant Lnoed see

Tastributiont
B= Rtat hay



$30 | vse rserous wuts

= CONTINUATION OF
Oisratcn

cath? ‘aeoan “Lo me that any careful obi tion by*
‘the Soviets: wnild have "rvvaalnl the tell-tale Ponition of ‘the venetian blinas
fa both the ola andthe: mv. tnses,. I bave.nn doubt that the duviets realize
they are ‘unter. plicto:survetLlance, The wove by the family from the ald to 'the
‘Rew bullding must curely have boen noted by the Soviets, Possibly the Soviets
think the featly fo working: vith the looal suthorition dua to LIEMPPY-15'e@

- former adacciation sith: the. Mexican’ Ary. Cone oe -

Gy Station’ Cossanta, The Station sgrees' vith MKRENDE that careful’

sarees that the Soviets rraliza that ‘they ane wmier'yiceo surveil Liance.
Thia was pointed cut recantly wien a Soviet ahinlded ar LYUHOO walk-in when!
they paseod.the front wate af the Aabagey ont mats a eien.te the walk-in - -
{rdteating that they could tr seen by -womeane vatrhing with a teloncope

Prom the bullitings avrmaa, tiie atreet, Aled, as leadquurters ta are, there
have doan mumrwue coments ty rosltenta of Haxice city te the offact that
az ne Catering tho soviet Lenasey to photcempheti hnwver, seldaa has tt
been Pumored that tbs “Avertcana” aro doing it, which might indlemte post
believe tha Mexican tkvarnmant ta doing any euch prstogaphing ant thereby
reaffiraing OBGNUE's wtatenent that the Sovieto posaibly balieve the Moxtcan :

Guvernment mins the base,

“fon that. the LILYRIC base ia blown, the Station at
{hte potas dona pct ules to terminate or rewmmp the LELYNTC installations

Mey operational chars ho the cferatore vould te «potted by the Bovlote and

if tha Dasa vers cliwet tho Avieta wuld atart looking for ny new installation.
The LILYEIC tee te pertareliw a unerud- functtin and 1t te believed thet te
Vill continue te da eo, iAteta Save had uppecheeties te, complain to

the Mexican Goverrronnt abit Leiria ncritéawd ptutrcnically and have not
Comm The to do! eo abt Ut 1a onlinved that they prdatly vill not do vo unleda
there 19 @ madient charge tn savint ant/or Mexican policy. ‘fhe Station bas
ireatructed GEMENDE t.. take every precaution during hie mostings with Livapry13
Se famine that LIBMITY=15 dove nut Lewd the Soviatn to nts ant Uareby
Jocpardizing cther operations, asyeesally: LICALLA, Z :

Te Oiven the avmusn!

LODGED : ae

8, cperator of the LIMIZED Base, LIDQ'IY-6, 18, to uy knwletge, :
the aldest hand in the abot survalllance at the Suviet target and Possibly :
the acct likely to ba “bummi", Hle reatdetice for yeara at the former Buse :
(now the atte of the new LILYRIC datldtog) and bie wove te the prevent base :
cosa mvt have gune unnoticol by the dovieta.:, Hie cover io that of on i

sane salewsaa, but he actislly tina ‘not-Nork nt the cover ant fe at
@ dlentvantage in tryiny to exyiain his’ eimrve' ef income. “Ak timer, in years
Past, ho hed to afford Pill-ttom covernne Trou the lane). vhinh allored hin
Re tine to enange th croiimlescwer artivities, :

Qe THUNDS Compents, Ido not haliere tha’ LIEMPY-6/LINTIED doo
pocurity rinks meever, hia present Beedtet, werking fret ‘an open dour leating
£2 Bie balec:y pretanly ews ba ‘sjeeted bysthe, teviet=. LIMTY6 Lo extremely
cautious abut cheaking Nase? for survelLlavce wien wating woot ingee é

eens 1 eleeeeee



e TRIO Cae ee
| CONTINUATION OF ]
DISPATCH | BECRST PMA~S1ILES

a

' : . )

4, Tho nat-up tn. the old ag voll ao the new bane ta ths follwins:

cv cAme, Schoe aml trinud = La wanted in one bedroom beh nd
venetian hhtmta with oe ala removed, Thio pee io iockad to keap varvante
gr mis chance fitrnier from artering, The operators do nut apend ail thelr
tine behing the cagersy coz Ro to the adjotning pedrus vhere a table and
typewritor ane eat up ant vhere the daily ices arm transcribed, mnitting done,
ry ee Ceher aotivity that does not require full comentration fe xarried out,
Tho curtains and blints in thie roca are kept partially or MuLy open to allow
xoud vioibility and provide a normal appearance. Most of the datly aoveeent of
the Soviet personel ts wel frva tia roos anc vhen it te necosaary to
take pictures of visitors, unkmwn persona or newly arrived Soviets, the
Operators go to the other roa and use the pro-.et Quipesnt,

The eqiijmany

5+ OERENDE's Cogent, Tt aeoan to mo that. any careful obaorvation by
the Sovints wal have ryvenimt the tell-tale position of the venatian blinds
ta both the old ant the sew inves, I have nm doubt that the Suviete realize
they are unter photo survetiiance, Tha wove by the family fros the old to the
Rew building mst cursly have been noted by the Sovinta, Posatbly the Soviets
think tha faatly fo vorking vith tho logal authorities dua to LIEMPTY-13'8

former ssacrintion with the Mexican Amy.
‘4 -

G. Station Commanta, The Station sgrees vith OURETDR that careful
oborvation by the Sovieta would Nave rovealnd the afesing elat in the veaatian
Binds ant also the tavt that thesa blinta are calaca cpams Tho ftation also
s 6 that Soviets rnalizs that they are unier WICtO survel Liance,

fn waa pointed out revantiy when m Soviet Bhialded ap LNERIO walk-in when*
they paisod.the front wate of the Sobassy and mata a sien tc the walk-in
Initeabing that they could tr aren by someann watcatie, vith @ telescope
frm tho dulltings aurone tbe atrent, Aly, ag iléndtuacters (a amare, there
have boon means coments iy casiients of Mexico City to the offact thet
Rayan entering the Soviet Lunasay to photemmphint however, seldom has it
been mioored that the “Aecricana” aro dotie it, vhtch migat indleats wost pecple
belteve the Nexlean Govamnmant ta dotty any euch photograsting ant thereby
reaffirulog GUGNDE's wtatanent that the Sovieto posatbly baliere the Moxisan

Government rune the base,

7s Given the asmevptfon that the LILYRIC tase {a blown, the Station at
this point dona net terminate or reaveap the CSLYMTC Lostallation,
Any cperationsl chara by the operators vould te upstked vy the Bovtote and
Sf the Bava were cla "eta would atart lovking tor a new installation.
The LILYRIC tase ta part vncicy 9 useful Mawticn ant Lt lu imlievel thet et
NULL continue to da so. The crvivta Bayo had apport tina ts eceplain to
Lhe Mexican Covernroent about Letts, monttcied (wwiwrsentcally and have not
fem Cit to a vol levod that thay pr.barly will not do so untess
AS char Sewint ani/or daxtcan picy., ‘The Btatlon bas
dhebructed GHIENUE t.. take every precation during Ais mootings with LIFAPEY<13,
fo eamire that LUEMITY=14 down nut, Leal the Soviets te nl ant thereby
Jecpardizlag other opyrations, nspectaly LICALUA,

D »

8 Me cparator of the LIMITED Base, LIMTY-6,15, to oy imevleige,
the aldest hand in the photo surveillance ut the Soviet target amd poseihiy ‘
qhe sect Likely to be “bumei", ts reatdenee for yenru at the former Boss :
{now the alte of the new LILYRIC bailding), and bin weve to tho prevent bace
ge2td not hare Rune unmotical by the sovieta. Hie cover te that of en
insurance salesmas, but he actually dona nwt Mork at the cover ant is at
a fbeadvantngs to wrrtuy ty eaviain bia sme ef Lacces. AL timer, 4n years
Past, Dé hed to afford Tult-tles coverute Yron the tane, whink alloved Eis
mo tine to ong in creilblescver artivition.

9s GFKENDS Comments, . I do not halieve tha LIEMPY-6/LIMTTED 15 3° Fi
Security Thaki kaever, Ale present sean wrking fret an om dour leading :
co Bis balocey prtably ca ba upekted tysthe Uowlets, LTMETY-6 Lo extnapely
Cauttous about checking Mlaveif tor eurvaillawe wien waxing woot Lee.



Ten PROCESSING ACTION bos =i

Action Required’ See Paragraph 2
Station Hexted City's Project LISIIY exptren oa 30 Novechor

_ 1966, “Porvarded berevith end under. soyorcte cover 1h cplit trencaission
fo the Request for Reneval, of Project LIEIPiY.

=e Tt fo requected;that Project LIETTY ve renavod for the period
1 Docoaber 1966 throuzh 59 tiommeber 1967 -in the saount of $45,059. Of
‘Shite gotal, $29,029. ghould be allotted for F¥. 1067 and $15,9¢0 for

for/iisjlara C. CURTIS

Attechaonts : a
Left bond aide h/y
Right hand olde u.dce Ceteeaes Mites
Distribution: ; ene
5 = CAmD w/att b/y & usece Ww cli

(CROSS REFERENCE TO : | ‘OFSPATICH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
: TAMA-3O4O5

GASSIEATION



the LEGHICK Anotallation and personnel. | Specific exaaples of the LEMPIY ©
itutions to the WD vill be found in Section 3

2. gigs
‘A. Operational + As noted'.in the previous. Request, for Project: Renewal;
the forner LIMITED property was sold.to LEuSRS, wio'sa per fornel.agree= -” " i
aeat-with:the Station, ‘derolished the old ‘structure and cons:ructed new :
eiitice, Mille dt wns initially contemplated to pleco the LETTED sod
{LIE@TYe -b°and'-7)° personnel in the new building and to retain the sone, :

Givision of wor'load between LILYRIC ona LEGT:D, iv was leter

Gaciued tOvnove the present LILYIUC basélouse personnel (LIETTYe-13, oth,

36 and -27) into the new bao instead, along with the following ancillary

uoitficationss ' ane . i :

“An increase in the hours of both. the photosraphic
coverage provided frea the new baca by the LILYAIC operators (¢800-1600
hours) during the weekdays. and to have the LIDGTED base provide
photographie and piyaieal curveillance coverage tro 1600-1430 hours’
on Weekdays and fron 0900-1300 hours on.weekends, These. changea were
Aletated by the following considerations +

and physical surveillance

1. The now LIMOUSINE buildings offers a uuch better vantage point
for both photographie and physical surveillance than does the
present coaplex vhich houses the LILYRIC and LIZ bases.
| ‘Mherefore, the Station relt that the personnel occupying this
new base should de those possessing the hicheot technical skills
and also those able to provide the cost thoroush end coaplete
coverases Since the LIWTZD base now hes only one trained
operator while the LILYRIC basehouse has three, the LILYALC croup”
and a revision of working hours was iadicated.

2, Because it vas apparent tiat the coverage of the LLERICK
Installation would be a long-renge end’ continuing requiresent,

the Station desired to steff the new base with personnel of long
H range Potential. LISPTY-§, now alaost 60 years old, does not

: possess: this poteaticl; hovever, the LILYAIC aseat complex

: happily coabines experienced personnel with youthful asents.

3. Finally, the social ond financial status of the LILYAIC
$ersonnel 15 such sore cospatible and consistent with the en=
Yironzent of tae new duilding than 1s thet of the LBATSD fasily.

ed revised Work schedule was initiated in July 1966 and
3 into the new base began in late

‘The above-eit
ane _ |. the actual ‘covesent ‘of the LILYRIC

Septeaber 1965.



Cute, Ba DE

Chief, 60 bivinton °°”

arch: 1960 *
V.to Tu! The. following {teas of significance
i this’ per fy Foret euatneonearriserearct Patt? :
1 ay AVSUALITY-11. LIQOWL=1. (Subjoct) continued to report
froquent moot ‘whith AEQUALITY=1, ARQUALITY-1 nporndically
would ask Subjuct ty grt Rim a woran, dt

tution, ask for pornograpbic .watertrl, cto.
with much hera rrogoecacy than previously. reported; AEQUALITY-1
Rover once perniatud or followed up ov s requont of this nature
and, in fact, notuing happened. | ARQUALITY=<1. continued to eall
Bubject. rewularly at the latter's store (3 to 5 times a week) .
usually to aek fer a ser br. oft drink. to be sent over, These
calle ovded abruptly oa 11 Juno (LIENVOY), possibly in conneetion
with AEQUALITY*1's tszing ovor the jol an Embassy Adointatrativo
Officer, During Jung AEQALITY=1 told Subjoct severa) tines

that he was in the process of takiug over tho job ag adninistrative
officer st the mabacoy. (COMMENT: por LILY2IC AFGUALITY=1

atoppod gate duty and KALYGIN, the former Administrative
Officer, started in). Gn 24, June AEQUALITY-1 told Subject |

that be ona aow “officially” the Adminiatrative officer, On ©

1 July ABQUALITY-) cad bia family moved tnto quarters inside

the Eabesay por Bubjoct and LILYRIC, (COMMENF: The Administrative”
Officer haz altsys lived inside the Bebassy). :

be LIRUSTIC-1: In waid-June LIRDETIC-1 moved into her
nee apartmont near bubjoct's store sad Logan to go ta the store .
too or three tines a day to pick up cmall itews for ber apartment.
Bhe was on vacation peading a new job starting on 1 July asd in

fe = CONTINUED =
Attachnents
Contast Reports, USC
bere ee
= CER, w/att,, Aa Stated
1 = CEH, w/o att. LE ary {6 (rey)

eat AO 4 AI AM

aawealcn

301-741655



Cia 8 ewEX BH tow
ane beams gent o
Jan critst
G@ suly, abe isteralle. via

9F
Lijie ty futreduce ber to
fellows, “Be. also”
ia aeoting -brunctte, “nord.
ets biGAd- wives, -LIBUSTIC=2
> ber to: a Boviet
ot re ay of the above,
‘To fact, be dig-tut sent toa LIRUSIIC-1 curing thte period,

: vy ile “ausiinl:. oa 4 day Budjoet sae given aa Scsatmn
i easaination valch be pasvad with flyiss colere. eet

On 13 Juiy Doaald J. BARICE completed s review of
Bubjoct's cise vaich cxparded on the Sistion’s reservations

i @rpreseed: im SWHA]S G92, 13 Sovesber. 10% and concluded that

H ~ Subject was ‘Unter KGS cottrel, -RABICK's report asda aterefilp

! of Bubject’s file wore. forwarded to Kesdquarters in BMBA-39014,,

| 1 Septeader 1088, Hi

i

i Irving A, OSC#SEY.to mectiaga VIth Burject 1a praparatioa for

9, On 1? and 19 July 1986 Prancte J, COIGHR aécoupanied :

takieg over the csae,

Although MGs? piritcipated as aa observer

and LICOTL-1 varan't told until] the ez

“of the eocord seoting

that COIGHE would tabs over, COICKE was of the deftaite iapression

that subject,

though addrenping nies

to O29525Y, wan
vhac literally ceased

i intercuted only iu COISEE aad that o#0a2
to artst as a perce Sudsest.

H et the end of thy escond wectiag (19 July) shen ORONSET told
Gubject that he enuld is leaving. Sroject dida’t react io ang
BAatsr to this statesent but. ioeediata Legan talkigg. ca

F anotker subject. Surgrised, OLOB#IY amked Gabjoct Af he had

H undormteod, Subjoct sAid he had awd again sent off on ecother

eudject. Subject's feactioa, or rathor Leck cf réantiov, vas

@@ cold and impersoss| ss to be poeitively woird, Im addition,

frea hie cotachet puritios aa an obecrrar curing theese two

! meotings, COIGHE had an instinctive, pusel> personal feeling

4 that gabject wes basically falnyg. Very itttle bao subsegqusatly

ecsurred which would alter that isersesica, On 27 July OROWREY
Bok Pabject alene olnce COIGKR was sick.

2. Baring dugvot and September COIGHE eet Bakjoct siz
tines.
had tried to reeruit nix, be davited tre Soviets to his Bows
twice (LIRUSTICel rsa invited both tines}, the Station staked
owt thors Seviot riatte, the Btation had aubject rite ppecial
Feports oa AXQUALITY-i' vigits to bis Bicre asd instituted
! eupacdad LILYAIC/CIVITTD vovernge to inciude Saturday sornings,
i aad Subject voluntesre! certsia iaforantina about Boviet

Thin tnyreaniea was atrengthonsd

Duriog tita ahort poriad Bubiect reported that ABQUALITY=3

contacts.

¥res the sbuve Subject esiorged as 6 conyiatent

H axaggerator and cons
Asfarseiton that de

ly ean ba sass
i KIRUSTYCAY ee repert

3. Sisca ovent:

clous lar to the point that gone of the
on previously repocted om bis Be contacts
ee Ya elation, Sis veletioas eitk

od Ly Bex snd bia fo2lare mentioa har”

to tho Station sea extramoly suspictous.

4 moved go rapidly in August aed Beptender
rtylaod, we will Geveiop

Jo
Rd ere -at—tivce-alanst—hopolese! yi

tala Legsoal enters

then here poiet—tppotar da erder to an!
Is ordoz.te provide tul! dotasl the contact reports are boing

tranmittsd usder separeia cover.



wos he ee

DISHATCH

tag #55

is
order; tha follevise atcey edi
Store aid said bo wanted to pm wort
Bo evid'bs waates

. OCS talk eit
asect to intern’ oa biz

:. LIBOUSINE owns and ts
> Al thoash other families ta
’ ieosdiate concern Were mentioned, th
Of ‘the old /LILYRIC ware not mentioned, ABSUALITT=1
Like 0 cone. to Rebfect'a bono s4th as Skasesd frie
1@ August “tn ordir to ‘discien thie farther. "su
to accept: thit asaignaert without: cbeckieg ot
Bgreed to princ Wido this tnferzat 1
wbgitreyf ore Sores SFr thle tater

. i arrangemesia twice. (Ther is ao
Beation of LIBMPYY=¢, LIFOUSIRE @F LILYRIC 19 feblect's estes
for 15 Avgust.) Although fubject did set say at shat ties -—
AEQUALITYY=1 cama.to bis stop er Rew loss ho stsyed, both LiniTsp
aed LILTRIC reported thsi ADGUALITE-1 vent cat alae ea feat

Am the direction er Subject’s Giep fer abcut an beur 62 12
Augest fran ca i825 ¢- 2325, an weupeally leag poried ia thetr
ropartiog,

5. On 16 Augast 1505 LIRESTIC@1 reported tha:
(1,0. one day latar} subject and bis vife Invited
& fiesta at theiz Sos ca the afterecea of Sumtay, 21 August,
which vas te celebrate the Dirth of thatr latest tor
ea 3 Angust. (LIKUSTIC©1 bad been threugh all tag details of
this birth vith Sudjsect'a wile), Thoy told LiRceric-} that
Sone of thelr goss Seviet friends

would be pressat an well es
soso Bexican friends xsd family pembera.

6. Burlag t39 16 Acgust seoting Bubjoct maid th@ tho Soviets
"® Crazy to thiahk thet anyone tn Rho Beiytboriced wag epy!
tien, Be ssid that he. kuey all ef the occupants ef the
iding asd seo ewre thst they varo all oxey, Towards tho ead
pide beotiog he repented tho shove statencal bet quslified 1%
gating that LFEXY'Y-6 woald be the on.

et fut. Stayod at bows a2] the tine, rf
Livet®® since be is sivas typing, Be added that .2EKuOTY<d
ho RP°7Y comfortably cad oves’s ear, Be fieaily satd the
to ¢ {card @ ranor about $ wautha am which be hed neyorted

*\tation that LIGTY-4 vor foe the Antricazs. Bs
C2Uld ie pemenbo:

yr bow, sho, shore or fron vaso Se heard thio
PEEOT. tthe Station tee eo. record of thia report.) :
?

the sq pitieet dig pot appser te be tho least esnearesd about
be aeeest ot esrving na AIGTALITEel's tnforeast. ia fact,
BS bed tot? beps taxt tho cars officer wraid Sppruve it.

z 7
Andignaricn ‘024 $3 etrexs tors to reject the offar.

etes—fa-diseussing- aon to achieve this Subject
Said that bacould tuvite sono chelo “to the ftests .. 4 E
mean the diacy=

fe that AXGUALIYY=2 would Roars 20 Oppos tuaity
to discuss thy sattor,



7] -elaborate-precactions_to_dritk.

CONTINUATION OF cae
‘DISPATCH : Wa - 3018)

-inatrueted to ots the floata/diansr,
Vo ales put a etal! #rtais~st O8 Tudjoct's hows whitch ‘shossd 7
Chae Subject, io eife ac4 Ure Hevictn arrives ot Sudject "Ss
bene at 1507 on 21 dugzat. io AEUCALITY-\'s car ang tho tro
Bovists Left 631800, -LIADSTIC=1 ese got oven. z :
Subject reported that on 19 August

: "t econo to the diaser on
viet Ambassader waa due beck from beso

TT Sige RERESTICH 1

her that the Soviets couldn't eee, sho dida’t go hereolf
beseuse ahe raa inte cose perfeatly Walid personal problens.

Bho hed lied adsat, going tecanse tho ence officor bad festructed
ber te go.) i
7 16. Back to Subject whe reparted that ea 91 Assist as ho
woo eleates es at 1460 AYQUALITY-1 cama io for a Bost. Schjest's
wife vesarted that sbo was sorry (ist Re couléa’t can fox
Gineer that Gay. ARGUALIT¥>1 promptly secopted aad ran back

to the Eabessy to got bio irisad sis turced ect te be Vaktor P.,
GFBIZAOV (201-T7898]), the, baiangctsr'a odanficar bem Subject
had been receatly touting a9 & great friend, “Thoy all then

went to Guhject's bozo ta AZQUALITY-s car. ABQUALITY-1 did
not bring op tho subject of padject’s reoruitesst daring tho
“widtt. Quite to tae coatrary be remarked te SuSjast covet =
tequila that be bed ebteined paraission to vieit Gubjoct’s

hemo, Aeserding to Gabjeet AECUALIYY-] has ealy rade threo
attespta to “trive bene” this wesruitzest 1

a. Ga 18 Angust bo asked tf @ubjoct had axy. iafonent
yet. Subject answered that bs betn‘’t had time.

b. On 19 Angus? vadle tolling Gubject. chat bo eonlda’t
cess to dimsor ea 8] August, ARQUALITY<1 asted Subjont &f ho
had aay infermtica yet. Subjest ansvored that ho dees’? bere
time to ecllect tkis typo ef tsfanmtica. AEQUALITE=1 suggested
that Gudject could get it froa the maids of femilics, suasest
enid bo doesn't bare tise. ol 414 not insist acd the

matter sas dropped.

ec. On 3 Septewnsy while ARQUALIT?=] sms fn the shop,
LIEWPTY<S cass ip to ordur ecuething. Bro LIREPTER“S left
SSSHALETTe] astsd Subject to provise Snforaniion. ca him, Gx!

(OMSIEHT: LEREGTY-3 wae pot oa duty at tuat tice.) As far as
Gabjost is concerned tho matter fis aew aleosd.

11. Subject’s secoust of thin resruiteent attempt a2
ga inprebabl~ an to eugyeet toat £2 never escurrnt. In eddities
to the dbows Sodjoct contisnas to @iseribe ABGUALITYe1 aa the
typical Boviet umicrlisg. Yor example, ASQUALITY-1 Ridas in
the totlet for 25 ainutes staa tur Saiplemata” cop io, takes
| Seguila cat ef core battles to

escape dotectice, cha’t “grt eat" fer various FoanONs, otess
hardly the doseription of a Bovist tryiss to rooruit conseno
Anforzation on LIXITE? and LILYEIC. Eowever, act noted bolov,

“—" gapjout se seation-of -LIZEPrY-3, LILYRIC acd LIEOUSINS 10 Ory

significest avd ths pensar in waich ho eeatiosed thes Bighly
—_pROVOCaLA VG. - aaa



ew YT INT LO dvi the tend @ Fittie, dsrited GORTETS to
a Cresta ew) Sopversar, F:bject*s aslate ey, G0Rtr sts
elieert se doe se eae try to come.”
aay ciber BGorleta sure bevited, Bot yet Git be’ sould probably
Aovite-STRIZOV. Aazena® aes be vas * Ball, yeo
Re sree ‘that 4 side: fran

: thetom the amd day, 38 Acgist, sad at tho
ease tise that Cou
ber to a ftesta st

w fing: on V1 Beptca wr te ecledrata bt:
eainta tay asd wen: t Barlot Criesda ereld by. toere,
Bere abs CazeGt @ysid tit dnpresstoa that

firet ani the goviers altereurds,

perl ficastl;

Bmp suppered tu te thors, Bubject invited

18, O99 Raptester Iutjoet reported thst COMOALTS, STRITRT

and ABQUALIVY) dad dolinitely accented tor 1h Soptamber oith
te mere prebabies. Siace tubject dec dot mectioved other
gumote (ia the pial be bas alvace eld thet he provided duxican
girlie), at the Aat ths eating Be was anhed af he weren't
Aevir Ruwde scordane? SLTN bis tat. ‘Re augeored
that oseert fy vere ealy Snviting
eon girl, s ff ft, Esre fellewd

8B cameriprinn Wear mates girt living enmesyhare in
rks in &R office goneubere, Ae and his

pave koowm Ber siwst a menih, etc., ail perfectly casual
asd taso- » Ba plar fored thot bw had iarited ber to bia
last fasta (21 augeat) which be bas alosyo: steutly saintaised
waz A diseesr oaly for AZ UALITWel and OTiiZEOV, Sat that abe
Bie mot come duw to heavy ‘Thi vie co first tine

that bo had moutioned LTi IC] who bad heen visiting his
shop since aid-Juse, wis no ted invited on 21 Angwsi aod vhes,
Bemontiig to Ber, ha Asa atterpted to intnrast in big Bovies-
Trteuds, urpod te wast ties La the stores usd sau, in fact,
inirotucsd to ore or is. informally 25 Lue eters.

16, 4t the
eff wits an Be:

sist seoting em 21 Serteaher Subject © started

fiepts.

hed bla up at bie atop at clavizg
and vise, p drows to his hose

©
STRILAGY end pronne hut p
time heartne nlite ar ¥

de neespt
feviere,

t told her that
9 memati ing
i» alreate prorared,

tan 2cvletw had
scan pueted 3 Bey
_ Bevject sprites Rie nest

att of bow ANQUALITY=1,

!

Sra acop) amd bia

sife who drove thea 3
Bare lintted siete ste) cees
of the tiasta deere cont

rw no Sevriot cara

t there

hin shed out

B¢ the cer watch UIZUeTIO-1



ete ined (ee
ata Neos

en in remulacly

‘CLEASOTT CoD Baas
tore at thio. time 6@
rte for tho pane

SRITED dee
fatezen 1053

LIT, vin lead ‘Ata‘on aa
from fenosisuiss tee hoe: each,
ted a6 wopreds: of tutes efoita
» tive mivates Ties ena Cine
Live get hahasny oF
io pRd bie te cheleiure, ‘toa led
epyecinliy wees hu nee reported
two or titrsa Gevis stove far period,
These eaetke were made rq petinda aie aad LiMevED
wore on duty, YR overs cng LIMITED LELZNIC had those tow
ee three Bosista it toca that $t womid sake At tapcuaible
for timwa fo be torstaer oe in Eabject’s atore aspusere near tho

avertzo
tise.
BOK,
agerg LeeiTRS/ 1. Bee
wut tae cos when Bubsect
tachechs of

Poin store at
tag besa verit
Baonnt of taloncu
Svat thee ef san

en he tu able
Sreationu obtained

tna isformation
ssiep aad thit be
Bargs sand,
Gubiect sorcored

whak the &
hag: eee

+ tha osfer,. jeot's prosmatatien
ebricmisen, o Subject wan
(OSLAT: inblert's notes
¢ adsiniaisetor

Saseneion otNare aac nas
ef ths shove wa chy!
paves Lie pease io
fae 2 Be

<2 Rig wee Barter
peaca.) AL th
> Bap deat

Bi hive wey me
urcay, 10 Septeube
them. SEAASRLIC
ther eapechs

i tm bad gone to
d hia tesy eere
porn ta abeut 1S
a ke could have
Ad teptenvor

yeaa
co te tere

Aaya at wb
all be «

a



se gh ON

Sa -penper gtr), in tredaae

{ tien. together either at
tted that thio‘vas a.

‘e6vanced soveral

> US, could
. iSsort en bis ora initiative tha... ;
- bigaly: Provesstive. ast set). tised {Statexocets atous Umerry-¢,
tho! ov LILYRIC and’ LI@TRINS,  T¥a Logics! motive for hia
OFASVOrSt ion sad Mdrieaiicns poRld bo te plevse hig Fatroa.
(WUIKCT),  Sosever, ho tent roethe gitioat maotloning LIRBOTIO=1,
the obviows, Milfifigsat af hig eutatand ing requiroxen’ to previde
Geman for ABGALITIO1, amt gosathing Ne costa really pork
" with. “Trans ray bo i sablicakve fu ARZOALITTA7 returaisg to
the Tabssey to Wore shortly afser LERVSTIC~] ontsrod tha
7

rd
Uy eathtse his tsen fh.
@arpal apyetites cincg Lt BATYCel"B arsteal. Therm Bases te
bo were then cotncisesce (3 Soajact Saviting LISUETIMY to
fiesta on the exe ot the next aay after invitieg the Sovtote,
Rote also that thess too fiestas were Sithic three woukd ef
e8th other aftar aa aieeass of one year, Also at trees Stesteg
the Soviet guasts s3:4 ther couldn't @sce to tho first and
Secwpted at the les: aisuin, For the secend tany acespied. and
tea decliued at the Isat sdaute. Bubjest's siviews and immediate
icterest im LEBOSTIC=1 19 ths Sovict content, Ais Sealing ker
out regarding pogsttic intercet in Soviots, attrepting te

introdics esr to Boviots and savitieg ter tv ibe Sirpt Niesta® o

®ll Pitbent mectioaian word to the Statios « is inerplieable
for an agwat sho to bryteg to produce. All of tas abows ia
indiostive of the slascien! RGB band, devious apd evercceplicated.

BALITT<l'a sven teated

20. Concerning tae @inseg of tha Soviets coniag or rot
6SEInR to the fteatan aoied ateva, de toth of witch ARMUALI THe}
Sigurad, LINCETIOM] 1 tbat she eet and bot her fret
BYied cuaversation alin an LATY-1 th Ecbject's stare ca the
Svea ns Of 13 Beptenter, t6 Say after 2BCCALITT<1 et al
eanteliod ost at ihe last aicnte,

32, Froa ail of the above asd fren RARITE'e asocaseent
&8 cas GRly conglude thot Setjact to mader pore form ef im
Sentral. Other thaa breating eoatact sith Sunject the statiaa
Ros tbo ceptions sf, trring ty, break bin er-te ase bin fe an
AgaruRsive sanser asatsst tia BGS. Ths Gtstios has co isterent.< _
Ap ecatianing this-csse io iw premcat (era. “4s'6 first atep
tae Station aupcesis a ose CORLL ematation. go Bou havo 2
muaSee of gurpematnl questions to Fat te Sudjest hich could

provides & waleablte biny fer detarrogstion wito t revesitag
Ether armota, Therefore, 12 MERICO CIPeBEs, Fy Septenbe? oo,

Es¥s. negussix Epanrsd. Peo KIPE-BILTIRI ANTS It 6b S

a

basia te beadie inia Sebsct amd LIQUSTice}. Sines seither
Spots any iglion sad cho interrogations gill vatcadtedly hecens

|
i
|



“CONTINUATION or
OISPAICH

Seep licated tho Btation would erprectate Besdetartere support
Sattor, Headquarters oplatora and suggestions on aay
‘7 above, pat audi ieaeetd oa the fatars bod ling bail

COO. : 13 «

LINUSTIC-1. who 4a presenting cortais probleas of har
80-10 wory ouch: favol wits hana cage. Vo ore preparing a

23. ‘Pratsatttod under ooparate cover are contact reports’
tor a1 Figen 2 Beptesbo: amd 21 September 1966. Previcus |. :
< wore forvanied ia: mma~a901 4) 2 Septenter banase pae

ar, According: to’ ‘Bubject “ARQUALITY=1 dtd not moation incomes
by naso,  AECUALITY-1 asted for tnformAtion on all the: tensata .-
Gho vould be. moving into the building being built by the can
bere: follows LINOUSINE's mational ity. and: make acd coler, of car).

for/illard C, CURTIS

Raa



Saree)

4 AUG 1966:

“Federal Buresu of. Investigation
Attention! Er. 6. J. Popich

yRoM® 3 Deputy Director for Plans’
suamer¢ Visitare to. the Soviet Ekbesay, Wextoo City

tags vere grean on vhite with no year vioiblo..

‘The
2. Further investigation revealed that those plates were 1ooued
3 April 1966 for uso on a 1964 Chevrolet station wagon to Mice Marie
'B. SALDUAS of Athen, Tonnsesse. There wao no strect edérecs on
Focord,

identified her rare fully as Moria Elena SALIRAS-singena, white,
female, born 17 Decerber 1936. She ie 5 feet tall, weighs 120 Ibs
end ic. teschor by profession. She does not have a currently valid
@rivere Licance, apparently having failed to rensy the ons issued last
in 1963. Her addreas at that tine vao 1512 Gresnland, Murfreesbaro,
Ganneasee vith an earlier address noted es 415 E. Lytle Strost,

Murfreesbaro. $e cas also poiuted cut that aho ins twico, over epproxi-

mate*lact-five yearo, had a duplieste license issusd to her upon her
statement that the original had been lost.
3. ha fileo of this Office coutained no inforuation on BALIUAS.
he This inforustion’has been ua available to your Kexico City
representative, ani cay not be dioseuinsted gutaide your Bureau
without prior ayprovel of this Office. :

CS01-316/03816-66 |
W/1/terance/nr/27 July 1966
BASIC: Hexico city-7341
PROJECT :__ LILYRIC

ows SURET



cct-336/09816-66 f
Wi/1/Zerance/nr,

Ort b 2 - FBT. 6-4/6)
ey RI -(50-6-7

ee-= CI/LIA

ce + CI/REA

ce = CI/IGG

ce = 58/0/4H

ce - Wil/1/YEXICO

ee = Wi/1/Chrono

ce = Wi/PO/A

Coordinated with:
sp/o/yH___

WE/cecurity__

t



Chief of Station

, Mexico City

mocnief, Wt Divteion

= LIRMPTY/LILYRI' > Soe
tgiters to the Soviet Embassy, Nezico City

RETR REQUELD AUTRES

Reference Wext 7841, 8 July 1966

FYI

Action -Required

4 1, Tennessee license pla ea. RJ=2990 from McMinn -County,. were
{esued!3 April. 1968. foruse; ona 1964 Chevrolet station wagon to Mise
. Maric B. SALINAS ‘of Athens, Tennessee: There was no street address:
son record. Eee ¥ 3 z oe Hotel 7

Bye The ‘Tennessee motor vehicle operator “Licensing: authority -
identified ‘her nore fully sa.Maria Elena. *SALINAS-i gana,: white,
female, born -17..December 1936.. Ste ‘is five’ feet: tall, weighs: 120 lbs
and ‘is a teacher by profession. She does not have-a currently valid

drivers license, apparently having failed to renew the one’ issued
Yast-in 1963, ~Her address at that time was 1511 Greenland, Murfress=
boro,, Tennessee, with an earlier ‘address noted at: 415. 5. Lytle Street,
Murfreesboro. it was alad pointed out that she hap twice, over ‘the
approximate last five years, had a duplicate license issued to her
upon her statement that the original had been lost.

3. There were no Headquarters ‘traces on SALINAS.

4, This information is being passed to LNERGO.

Laura Ailyrsrree

Distribution:
2 - COS, Mexico City

Lnanery-¢
6-6-6

GROTS REFEREE 10 T crsrarcn sri AND MOMTER yo 4 AUG 93
MMW 1.4752 126 -July 1966

raring [ate
SE CRE | erat

ecuastinaatsa)

My

Chrono
SB/O/WH

Sateen cd

C/WH/L

108 53 ust previous canny



SECRET 0890052 CITE MEXICO CITY 7841

DIRECTOR bits 32282:

KUDESK
Ll. PER LILYRIC MEXICAN LOOKING COUPLE ENTERED

5 HOURS, LEFT AT 1210 HOURS.

SOVIET EMBASSY 5 JULY AT 115:
WERE DRIVING YELLOW 1964 CHEVROLET WITH TENNESSEE

TAGS EJ 2992 FROM MC_MINN COUNTY. TAGS GREEN ON

WHITE, NO YEAR VISIBLE.
2. ADVISING LOCAL ODENVY, POUCH ING PHOTOS.

SECRET
Br : i
: a4

pepe SALAS
e} erh. Stee y fo choy, Pee
Dark ‘naps te

sent omucane > Eset:

To wen! IZBTEE Hau

fous ae Ley eac \*
c se-b 4 fe ae



pooner ; Carey ay
face Po wheees Qhves. ne

euassurr Toe ne

roves crits

CUSStFizD.WESSAGE

: REPRODUCTION PROW!

Fue,

}
i

pute SEC RE T 0618312 CITE MEXICO-CITY 7533
DIRECTOR :

Bw 66 063.1733

REDCOAT LIEMPTY Limousine i
1 AFTERNOON 26 NAY LILYRIC AND LIMITED OBSERVED VIKTOR V.

KALYGIN, EMBASSY ADMIN OFFICER, EXIT EMBASSY WITH MOVIE CAMERA.

:T FROM LILYRIC AND

LINITED AND PANNED AREA WHICH INCLUDED PRESENT LILYRIC, LIMITED

KALYGIN TOOK POSITICN DIRECTLY ACROSS ST

AND NEW LILYRIC BASE HOUSES WHICH LATTER CUNED AND BEING :

CONSTRUCTED BY LIMOUSINE, i
2s CAMERA APPEARS TO BE 8 MH TANKYO fUiO-aX WITH F/1.7 ZOOM :

LENS FROM 7-5 TO 30 HA. THIS CAMERA PROBABLY WOULD NOT SIVE

CLEAR DETAIL OF BASE HOUSE AREA.

SECRET :

Br !

2)

©

afte


th chef ii Diviston
RE, sonic ta aseng Sle Ete |

“ACHR RQUELD ATTROCED

REFS: “AS. TAGIW 13915, 24 August 1965 ~

By NEXT.4248, 26 July 1965

"s information are two DBB's . 2

Attached for stat iol

i aiving the- fesults of an’ FBI investigation to deternine

“the owner of subject automobile.

Ernest A. LUSBY

pada (2)
B 27004, 2 November 1965
BBB 268395 27 October 1965

Distribution:
0&1 - Cos,

Mexico City, w/atts h/w

10 November 1965

CROSS REFERENCE TO ‘DrSPATCH SVHEDOR ARO NUMGLR

UMMW=14,12, 123

T
|
i
7 ASHTCATON
i
|

Rie
Chrono’ * >

et 53 use enewous eoinen



MESSAGE FORM CF hor O neuin fo sunen Crue aD

TOrAL comes” De OLLI CO OKRIIO

4 ous or
wit: OWH/L casa

or: 4506 ° 2
f-OXTE? 2° Sep

REDCOAT LCIMPROVE . 40033
REF: MEXT 4604 (IN 43039)* asp OF...

TRACE RESULTS SENT BY HMMW-1391$ POUCH 30 AUGUST,
OWNER IS CARMEN NUNEZ GODOY OF SAN ANTONIO. NO HQs
TRACES, ae a
ce END OP MESSAGE

*Pls advise (regarding Hqs traces on owner of car w/Texas
plates whose driver visited SovEmb,)

50 Wolfe,

C/WH/L

A gany\
ief, WHD

eee

Autnearicarina |
RELEASING OFFICER orricen

copy!

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 15 PRONIBITED.



s
“E.C.R E13 j2555)
Din cite(mext 2604
Repcoat NeupRove~

per next 420s Cio! (fae >) = 34fess 043038

PLS ADVISE.
SECRET es @EauaSTED seanceks. TEN AY Visti e
£ mere, {

. Sue fins
CFN 3122552 4634 4248 PLS ADVISE

8T =
CoOrey!



error)

BORE T

PAC REDCONT LCTMPROVE

RAS SSS

ae RBS m

‘negative.

NUNEZ asc GODOY.
none were identif1

Distridation:

O & 1 - COS, Mexico City ’

Sgulot Eabaddy ,-Hoxtco. City ———

p09) MERE 4248, 26 uty 1965

ae @ License. plate su-3407 ‘da a 1904%1at ‘agai gied *
ARES: Lincoln 4-doox_sedap..o owned by Carmen®NUNEZ..Godoy — JUL: 346!
¥ cy Rap SAL css gts IRE

: 2 credit Bureau and Police Dopartnont checks were

| 3. Headquarters indices wore reviewed in tho namo of

“LILY G/Anerican | Auto Vis ting

BOG. MicHO. SER
JRPRQ 1971

RGCROEILMED | |

There woro soveral references, ‘but unfortunately
able. KUSODA indices were also negativo.

Ernest A. LUSBY

DIEPATEH SBC ANO MUMOER

Cosa wivenenen 7
: 3 cose
JgMtW-13915 ; 124. August_1965
CRASSHFICATION TMGS FUE HUME
i
: : {
SECRE asia 50-6-7426. i
7 GmeneTg i
wi J, Zerance b l450
RI ewe AGA TANG
Chroso. ecrsne

L297 $3 use ontuaws coon

C/WHD

_ | DISPATCH

;
:



| =

19 August 196:

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/L

: ATTENTION. - yo Jane Zerance.
‘SUBJECT : : Identification: of License Tag. |. : .

2
t 1: ‘Attached per your request is an Office of
Security report concerning the identity of the holder
of Texas license JU-3107.
2. -No further action is-being taken in this
matter by the Office of Sccurity and there is no record
ettne ‘Licenso holder, Carmen NUNEZ (GODOY), in the

indices of tho Office of Security:

: : Fay ee
CLL aca

Richard-J. Hannah

AC/WHL/Securi ty

Attachment!
fs

pct 1G patna’ B 7 [S Sa agl



OFFICE OF SECURITY

Support Division

REPORT
, OF
INVESTIGATION

CONSISTING OF
1. REPORTS

SECRET
2


AAG? 99h ~ 19

GENERAL?

At San’ Antonio, Texass

On 5 August.1965 wre, Nathleen ACHILLE, Texas Department
of Public Safety, Motor Vehiele Division, Austin, Texas, was
telephonically contacted. She checkéd. the records and advised
Texas. license plate. JU-3407 1s a 196) plate assizied toa 1965
Lincoln’ li-door sedan owed by.Carmen Nunes CODOY, 1123 North
Main, San-Antmio, Texas. .

. On: Auguat1965 George ZBFEDA, Credit Bureau, 302 West
Market Street, checked the récords in the name of Carman Nines
GODOY with "negative results.

On & August 1965 the recorda of the San Antonio Police
Department and Bexar County Sheriff's-Office were checked in
above name with nena results.

EoDsefd

SECRET

es, COPY,

z



eee ee

american Auto Visiting Russian

BETON RTGURED - REFERENTS
‘AG REQ:
a “wRxi 3757, 10° June 1965

ri :
REF:
: a C x

a.
(idalgo; Texas}.
os ‘\ngeles:,—Ca.

jecond.

Box’ 222,
joulevard

party in Reynosa; Mexico.
son-of a wealthy family living
vergations with
returned from Europe;

to ‘be. duthentics..At the time of
just ‘purchased 2

Motor Sales, Box 340, McAllon.

Ho) negative.

4.

Distribution:

~~ 1. “texas license tag LU-1796 was assigned 7
1963 Ford Convertible, Thunderbird owned by ot ep: 7

2 i addrasa-Listed as 8462_Sunset
jornin.. We were told that al
1965 plates issted to private autos contain, three: letter (no
vowels) and from ‘two’ to three numbers.

in Mexico City.
PEDRERO, the scurce learned that he had just
‘that. he, lived in Mexico City and also

had ‘2°home in California. ~ fie described Subject as
bis early twenties, a Httle spoiled, but a person who appeared

ew; fully-equipped

Headquarters.traces were negative.
EB j

Mar:

eat HUG ICE

2. K member of the credit bureau in McAllen, Texas,

stated ho'was introduced to Subject
lic was told that Subject was the

about 2 years: ago at a

During con-

being in

this mecting, Subject had
Thunderbird from Boggus

3. “Police and crédit checks (Texas and California) were
Regoved Oven Present Oz * |

CS -ClesaWPtewt tant 2 - + -7
308 #77 SPSS _ Wi
Bomt_227. Folda gm

Ernest A. LUSBY

J.

0 & 1 -COS, Mexico City
ot si i . “5 GOES
cwentndiearsct 10 punta eoove BORORR oat
H HMMW 13898 17 August 1965
ug sake Ean racer
ae SECRET | $0-6-74/6

Zerance

epeeeeeaset nye
E William V, Broe

| oispaic



oe

MEMORANDUM FOR: © Chief, WH/1

ATTENTION

Jane Zerance
SUBJECT entification of Auto License’ Ta

r

; rat :
Pursuant to your recent réquest, there is attached

an Office of Security report containing information on

\

plu |

- Mullane,
Security

apse 18
eeiyaitezcad

atic Wve = 13 BTY SECRET ess

SO -6-76



"OFFICE OF SECURITY

Support Division |

REPORT
OF -
INVESTIGATION

The Se pe the Othee of Secusnty and

CONSISTING OF
_ LL. REPORTS

SECRET

Qe


‘i
}
i

* E : “9 July 1965

Serpe

1965, Mrs. V_Rs MBBS, Texas sitghvay Departnent, Hoto: ~~
ston, Austin, Téxas,.was telephonically.contacted. She checked
‘anid advised Texas License Tag LU-1796 was assigned in 1964 to a

1963 Ford’ Convertible Thunderbird ‘owned. by Mario PEDRERO, Box 222," Hidalgo,
Texas; second address listed: as 3462 Sunset. Boulevard, hos Angeles, Califor-
nia. : The lien holder of this automobile was Boggus Motor Sales, Box 340,

McAllen, -Texa:

Mrs. HIBBS stated all 1965 plates issued to private automobiles contain
three letters (no vowels) and from two to three numbers.

On 9 July 1965, Mr. J. H. WRIGHT, Credit Bureau in McAllen, which covers
Hidalgo, was telephonically contacted. He checked the records in the nane
of Mario PEDRERO with negative results. Mr. WRIGHT thou stated he vae intro-
duced to Mario PEDRERO about two years ago at a party in Reynosa, Mexico.

Mr. WRIGHT stated he was told that’ this person is the son of a wealthy family
living in Mexico City. During conversations with Mario PEDRERO, Nr. WRIGHT
learned that he had just “returned from Europe, that he lived in Mexico Clty
and alsovhad.a home in California. Nr. WRIGHT described him aa being in his
carly twehties, alittle spoiled but a person who appeared to be authentic.
Ae the time of this meeting he had Just ‘purchased a fully equipped new
Thunderbird from Boggus Moter Sales. g

Mr. WRIGHT stated he saw Mario PEDRERO again about six months ugo
when he came to McAllen to have his car repaired. When he comes to NeAllen
he usually stayo at the Casa de Palmas Hotel. Mr. WRIGHT could furnien no

additional ‘information.

On 9 July 1965, Officer KURTMAN, NcAllen Police Department, was.
telephonically contacted. He checked the records of the McAllen Police
Department and Hidalgo County Sheriff's Office in the name of Mario PEDRERO

with negative results.

At Los Angeles, California

On 13 July 1965, files of the Retail Merchants Credit Assoctation
Were checked by Agent Howard M. Q, and disclosed no record in the name of
Mario PEDRERO.

On 13 July 1965, files of the Police Department and the Los Angeles
County Sheriff's Office disclosed no record when checked in the nane of
Mario PEDRERO,

ae : Z SECRET



SCRE T 2622452 Beate a
DIR CITE vEX1 4248 2 i 25Ju 65019201
REDCOAT: LC IMPROVE i 7

1. ACC LILYRIC UNK MAN VISITED SOVEMB FROM is23 TI 1405 os
HRS 29 JULY. ARRIVED AND DEPARTS) IN 1965 BLACK LINCOLN TEXAS ° arr

LICENSE JU 3497, TAG NUMBERS WHITE GW 2LACK BACROR ID WHICH
PROB 1964 TAG.
2. LOCAL ODENVY ADVISED. PEAEST HES TRACE CUNER,
F SECRET
CFN 4248 ACC LILYRIC UNK SOVENS 1325 1425 HRS 22 July 1985

BLACK LINCOLN TEXAS LICE JU $407 BLACK 1984 Tas HES

oar. : :

Naw



’

REPRODUZTZON PRONIBITED |

5 ASSIFIED MESSAGE forse conrta 7

SECRET 1021262
OIR CITE MEXI. 3757
REDCOAT

ACCORDING LILYRIC ON 2 JUN DRIVER NAVY BLU
LICENSE LU 1796 WHITE LETTERS ON BLACK VISITED shu EMBASSYBR

REQUEST IDENTITY OWNER.
SECRET
CEN





assets under the

ae

ee

#3 October 1958

Mistributdons
oo City

: i
i
f i

Berni ed cet)



pence

raisins Pe hereby egrec to pay tke U,

“Ghp0, EN poses. for. the prvperty, Locatedat: | :

va anoint, ELL gox2604 (G0)0W9 pesos) tev chsh

1 tnotatltents.. The Cirot insteLlment of 45,000 7 gases vill ’be

erceie ctor usereat tea) in too
The second eqiel

: patd, on ts. “beginning of construction of the tutlding.

be pata on ecipletion of the copativet fine

tastedizent wi
tion of the now building to be erected on the. site in que:

ation

2... Coristzwc!

GIL bestn temcdintely on completion of the deablilion of the present"
surveture nad clearing of the cttes

: + 3, The belence of 60,000 Fesoa ¥I11 be repatd within tvo (2) years of cox-

ho

pletién of the Wilding, Ae part “of this payment, the opartacnt ¥l

entire top avelling floor will be let rent:

is toy. -free to Jorge
Pe *

‘or such other porgon as the U. S. Governzcat

@ for two (2) years ct a calculated rent of 2,300 pesos

nay destsint!
: § monthly, including elty Vater. “The understaniing coverins this two year

entative of the U. S.

free rental will be negotiated by me vith the repres

Govertzent ard Wil), to considered: part of this Noaorantua of Agreeaent.
Ing vE1L be paid in o lump cum at the end of the
Lesyly fo :
sncona full yeer of occupancy of the apartment.

4, The 4,600 yes0o rezain.

5. I further agree, that_I vill, on cozpletion of tho puilding, execute a rental

dawn Ze
centrect vith in accordance vith the pertinent part of paragraph 3

an unwritten option for

eeve, This contract vill be accoayanied by
Bae :

cx other persen epproved by the representative of the U. Se Govern-

mont to renew the rental contract for cuch periods of tine as the Wu. S.

i Governsint asy see fit. Tho centract shall stipulate thet uny increasa in

rental vill not exccel the proporticrate rete at which rentals have been

‘ | tneveased for the ciher apartzenta in the sae buildings _

BGG :

peyzents mde to ae or-ny representatives by

of the

Sree rental period, vill be returned to the representative of

Govertinent; minus any such afpropriately pro-rated chansea fcr Yuilde .

v3 end waintenance as vould noraslly fall to the responaibility

of the tenant. wok
Ey fom : : é ,

fgmee re _Y

cr aa


iuning the’ Sertod of thts



KE AND STA’

Thos urcdastana ny.



pees ere?
Pare

i a : i



: BEES,
361-51203

MEX - 1487 Cin 18155)*
TO LELINK J PENDING se

ER LIMESA AND LITALUS
3, LIvESTCcK-2, Luwnst-10,NiSIT be
INCREASED RIS INTEREST IN ‘STATION'S

LAY TURNOY
GN REC Fay LICOzY=

PLEASE

o> HEADQUAR

LILYaiC, BICss INDICATIONS OF

OPERATIONS.
‘END OF YESSAGE

we Comment: uu. plans turn over LITALUS ‘and LIMESA ops to

ep

Ri PRODUCTION



‘ CLAS 1€D MESSAGE

aout,

CREDO SaaS
ne =
sec eee Ee! C1

REY EXT 502 (IN 26349)
PERIESION GRANTED RENT SUBISCT BOSE.
(up OF MEsSAas)

RELEASING OFFICER “Auraceticatiwa OFftese
z i ‘Copy

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO SAXE.A COPY OF THIS Mi

Levan We Save tote ii

fl ue Seba aniaa oeacenaa aaa
Ot. EE eee



wor FIAt2, $/02

MEXI_§02_(IN 2831i9) 0597 20 FEB 56 noun
Tos oR fect CITE: MEXi |
REs DIR 46762 (ouT 7079/4) :

\

1. SUSU HOUSE NOF BEING VACATED. RENT APPROX 600 PESOS PER
wONTH, MOVING EXPENSES APPROX 1,00 PFSOS.
i 2. AT PRESENT STATION NOT CERTAIN CLEARED PERSON WILL BE
AVAILABLE TO OCCUPY THIS BASE,
END OF NESSAGE

SECRET \

AT 1S FORBIDDEN TO_MAKE A COPY OF MESSAGE. Cony |



air to01A4160"

“Ghdet, WMD 2 aan 20 February 1956:

Chief of Station, Maxteo City
Operational
- Lipsricn/LILYRIC

References? fe NBKI 426 ae ie - ela

L

Re

3e

b) DIR. 44756
c) HEXI 454

‘on 24 January 1956, tho LICOCL run reported that LIPSTICK/LILYMIC wae avat lable,
LINCHPIN wae imodiately, contacted with instrictions to investigate this
posaibility, Prelininary investigation through the janitor roveoled that there
tas a front apartrent available wich was idcally sulted for our purposes.
LINCHPIN contacted ihe owner who atated that the apartment was not for rent since
his daughter vao goin; to move into. it, ~The owner did offer LINCHPIN bis :
daughter's old-asartzont which was in the back of the building. LINCHPIN
contacted the daughter acd found that hor apartaent wae not suited for our
purposes, and mentioned to her casually that atould she not take the front
apartment, he would be interested, She told LINCHPIN that she didn't really

“want it and would tell her father to rent it to LINCHPIN, Subsequent ly

LINCHPIN again ‘wontacted the oimer and was told that he could have the front
apartment. . :
LINCHPIN has executed the contract for one year for LILYPRIC at #56,00 US per

ronth, fe plans to wove from the present RAPPER baso by 5 February 1956 and
place hie furniture «in etorage for @pproxinately one week, The furniture will

Se moved to thé storage warehousp by one roving company and taken out of the

storage warehouse by another moving company. Although it 19 realized that this
gerios of moves would not cover tne trail of the furniture to an experienced
Inveoticator, it will prevent. questions by neichbors who oso the furniture being
noved just one-halr block and aleo prevent covents fron the soving men then-
eélvog who would’ sove the furniture this one-half block.

Since the RAPPER base, consisted of ofie bedroos and the LILYRIC base contains

three bedroons, and is cenerally larger in all respects, it will be nacessary to
purchase additional fumiture to. sake LINCHTIN's occupancy normal in all

“appearanees, It 18 estinated that the requisite awunt of furniture neoded for

this purpose, will not aczregate in excess ‘of $500 US, Further, since this
apartient is-rather large for ono eingle man, LINCHPIti'e brother is being cleared,

Cgrodt he dbne Moher — ttgeAh,. ean exert:

é
4
{
d
:
4

Oa i tI ya

Berea

&



| - NS ne a

wath LINciPIN' to serve aa

and, after eloarance, will move in tho apartaent

‘pelief operator and lend covor'to tho bases “

Sar tiat LILMGC. will be kept covplotely compartsented froa LIC TKD
UGE cperationss :LIASTTCY 20, will act as, cut-out betwoen- the
Pood has bocn Anstructed that he is not to mention thie

Lote:
ation: instiad of beirig sent to-.Janes’ 0
ITED. “Later, the processing say 'bé done.
laboratory ar to téke thia load off the Station personal
r gairly well equipped che'aical: laboratory that, v1 th-a
few rodifications; could.be used ‘for the processing of tho: filas and printde —
At prosent LINCHPIN haa a partosr in this jaboratory and it 19 planned that the

partner will:bo cleared, |

jp‘ that by the altemstive usa of this base with LI'CTED
igns of photographic surveillance (possibly o

wore there ant locking for thom, will

3 the bast possible

6, This Statiun, sincerely fee:
that mny of the outward o:
apparent to the Case ‘Officar krowine they
Qe reduced, “The acquisition of this base, in a sonsay provide:
cover for the LIMITFD base by decroasing the use of: that bases

Yatthew S. Dingley

MSD/oik
18 February 1956 :

Distributions
8 = Headquarters
2 = Files :

104-4160 ie
2 February 1956 if
Page 2.



AIR. 15406. (out 64507)

“RF: YX 434 (IN 17492)

CLASSIFi€D MESSAGE ;

iat ROUTING . if
OTA | OR:
wer apo ; ;

16582. 34 JAN 56 PRI: A :

clirs rir

PUR'ISSION GRATFD ARAIDON OL? RAPPR PAS! I! VIEW ACQUISITION LILYRIC, -

Qrucaaine OFricen

'T AS FORBIDDEN TO MAXE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE Cory No.

Fun oF “reragr

Ceoebwatnd ay
Viewed wild OC-SP/SH

COORDemaTina OFriceas

Fb Quiche gp

AUTHENTICATING OFFCER



Brett 51-19

Esch comment should bo numbered to correspond with number in To coluran.
A ling should bo drawn across sheet under each comment. :
Officer: désigiations should be used in To céluma,

Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) beforo further routing.
Action desired or action taken should be indicated in Comments column,
Routing sheet should always be returned to registry.

For officer designations see separato sheet.

SECRET

‘Asovesion Noe 27
Dato Received SA.

san


E \. CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
am r

» paaecreneae —————

“MEX! "ext 294 (1N 47892) _braiz 3p m6

To: DIR - CITE: MEX?

RE: DIR 44756 (OUT 63282 )
wext 424 (IN 15297)

1.
Br LINCei
2, LILYRIC RENTER /OCCLPANT FRAPPER BASE. IF RAPPER BASE

RETAINED WILL BE COVERED BY LIPSTICK-12 COST OF APROX. U. s.
$4,999.00 FOR FURNITURES i i
3. NE PREFER USING LILYRIC ALSO FOR RAPPER. IF HOS
ORUECTS, DESIRE RETAIN LIPSTICK 42 OM TEAM EVEN. THOUGH
COVERTIG RAPER, SINCE IMMOBILIZING HIM AT RAPPER NOT JUSTIFIED
OX GROUNDS OF SECURITY AND MOULD FUTHER: DEPLETE; TEAM.
END OF MESSAGE :

——————

CRET
R CORY OF THIS MESSAGE; Cony No.

IT IS FORBICDEN TO M

a


< * BchBaur C71 cussiren messace
one

POR. Tt. SHAW oun
uNT 1 ND : a
or 3s 2555 — SECRET [i
ate. 2° 26 JANUARY 1956 pe eC)
2% SA

To +." Rico CITY Bie a
mows poor

our 63282) 25212 26 JAN 56 pater

| MAT Citi: DIR

RR: WXI-42, (IN 15297)
2, Carry) APARTMENT APIROVED. KEEP PRESENT RAPrSS BASK ALSO IF POSSIBLE,

2, HAS PLANS FURTHER RAPPER EXPERIMENTS BUT CANNOT SOTIMATE DATES AT

THIS TINE.

END OF MESSAGE.

+ COBRDINATED BY PHONE “ITH

=
UfeeeL me) Batty

-J.C) KING
acteasine PissadceantastaaeAsnaaiy TicaTH2a OFFICER,
“Tr Is FORS! IDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE Cony Na



25 un 56 PRIORITY
To: DIR cite: vex!
RE: Huh 287

4.° APT AVAILAGLE DIRECTLY ACROSS STREET FROM LIMERICK WHICH
OFFERS. EXCELLENT RAPPER AND LIMITED POSSIBILITIES. nents PER
MONTH.

2. PLAN Re CuEST LINCHPIN MOVE FROM PRESENT RAPPER -BASE IF
HOS STAFF CONCERNED HAS NO OBUECTION. WHAT ARE FUTURE PLANS FOR

3. NEW BASE WILL INCREASE SECURITY LIMITED SINCE WILL OPERATE *:
ALTERNATIVELY WITH LIMITED.

4, REQUEST CASLE APPROVAL.

a

END OF MESSAGE

(TIS FGRSIDDEN TO M 7% COPY OF THIS RIESSAGE Cony No, : *



Se
FACTOR.?,

a
/kO

ABCA saat ao

NIE

TITLE CRYPTONYH, CAUSED.

PS TO SE PLACEO IN THE

“yg REMAIN THEREIN AS. AL



[

‘seCRET

(hes Filed tod

‘CASE FILE REQUEST

COMPONENT

THONG TELEPHONE
Fett pees

= Te ACTON: REQUESTED,

OPEN FILE -
‘AS SHDICATED,

Auta Fd
AStinptcaTeos ,$

10 (0&0.

PARE FILE FOLDERS.
‘AUD SEND TO REQUESTER,

Toons

©

"APPROVAL

"THis REQUELT SATISFIES RECOROS REQUIREMENTS.

oT

REQUEST APPROVED,

ROVALD 0. BOREFEH

ier A

TFFECTIVE OATE

FoR KO. B19. v3
Fee." 812

Wi CASE THLE NOM

WOME). gates Ds PE irae

RTS Tape cite


on
- J te -aranatysis secnoa :
ie wee
bea Charo burton
westnict saa
‘ ; 10 t04sK.
2. COUNTRY AND NUMBER 2 CATEGORY AND NUMEER PERMANENT CHARGEOUT : P
ieee TO vorsn. j
Mexteo 50 Orerational 5-7 Ano SENOS notte, g
Teo tata ow eee Se ;
| Es
e \ : &
technical basehouse 5

LILYRIG used to fall under the LIPS! 1K Project and sed to
have RI file number [0-f=25/8

© Fon UsEONEY

Dies siopige tyre Vea cies

=
5
&
&

2

iS
is

o

ENDORSES:
Toit REOUEST SATISFIES BECOaDS OWE

Oy
EQUEST AppicvED

AOA

AOUALD 0. t
rea ——

CASE TITLE Numata

