# 104-10186-10073

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10073

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INJELLIGENCE AGENCY

манів рогов з рові в 181

SICRET

NO

FORFIGN

DISSEN

REPORT NO

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

COUNTANCuba

SUBJECT Teudys TRUTIE MatIlla

allas "Teubaldo"

CSC1-816/00624-65

10 February 1865

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Fraproduca

CS-711/00119-64

(page 11)

8 July 19019

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE &

Washington,

D.C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIEID REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INTORMATION. SOURCE GRADIMOS ARE OPINITIVE. APPRAISA: DA CONTENT IS TENTATIVR

SOURCE, A formor Cuban IS officor who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1961.

Icadguarters Comments

The following report as one of a series containing personality.

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the rocords of this Agency.

individuals mentioned in the personality reports

first checking with this Agency.

Source Identifled a photograph of Toudys THUTIE Matilla

as being that of the person known to him as

"Teobaldo" (true fall namo

natibiont laure?)and the same individual who vas chios, also an

of the Seccion Teenica (Technical Training Scction -

MI Department (Department of Technical Operational

the Direccion General de Inteligencia (Genoral

Directorate of Intelligence - DGI). His offices are located

STATE

Source described "Teobaldo" as being a Cuban cilizen born

1s about five feet seven inches tall, weighs

approxinately 135 pounds, and has a silm build. He has a white

complexion,

light brown hair, a small, straaght nose, & glam

and is clean shaven.

"Teobaldo" walks with a slight limp in his

left leg and speaks with a nasal twang.1,2

Headquarters Comments

1. A former Cuban diplonat and Cuban Intelligence (CIS) staff

officer who defected in 1963 reported that one Tcovaldo TRUTIE

(possibly identical with subject), born circa 1938, was a

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

INSA

1 XXX

Tock

IFBI 2

REP

CINCLANT

(Nuro: fiold distriburos indicared by "'#".)

CINCSO#

I&NS

INFORMATIONARERORT #INFORMA LION RERORT

ALLISANOB!

all. SAiR

I- CILLIA

1. CI/REA

LE/CANADA LI

1

4A 1838; Lx 2349

NO PROJECT (AMMUG 1)

@SC1-316/0062-1-65

RIWAX

all, balit

TOTOLGUILISA &

(1), WE 1 (2), CI 8, RID 1

COOFDIMATINE

611186068

SLS:1.D;6xk

16 i n: 1955

901.-737688

---

