# 104-10227-10054

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10227-10054

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

- CASSIFIED MESSAGE

40

SECRET

SIGNATUS.

.. CATE " 16 APR 63.

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM • UNHAVE

SAS 10

ACTION

/ (COPY ISSUED TO IN 2000 15 APR BP)

INFO •

0C1, D/DC1, DOP, AODP, CA 2,.

CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O

61/0ps,

до/ст 2, 40/нc, %/6 2.

61/16 2, 51, 51/0, F1/INT 2, IN, 00/1,

ROUTING

5

APR 16 0051Z 63

1, cl PRIORITY

IN 18237

TOCS DI - 3/654,105

PRITY DIR CITE WAVE 7162

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATAS ANDÉNIM I FROM FONT AND CUESTA, FILEU 1523572

REPORT CLASS CONFIUENTIAL CONTROLLEU DISSEM

COUNTRY& CUBA

SUBJ: REPORT

OF MEETING BETWEN JOSE MIRO LARDONA AND OFFICERS

n..

OF COMANUOS

VOI: 14 APR 63

PADAS 15 APR 63

UFG 2678

APPR$- 3

SOURLE: PROMINENT INDEPENÜENT EXILE LEAUER (L) FROM ANTONIO

QUESTA DEL VALLE AND BAMON FONT SAULELL.

IN COMMENT

NO DISSEMINATE! I! T!!. IITICHED

TO PORTIO! GN T'"""! L' ¡AS ELEN

MADE OUTSIDE THE ACE'CY PENDINO

MEDRASS BY THE ACTION DANT SEE

ROUTING

RID/AN

RIDALIS

RIDIES

INSTIAL

TDCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE"

- PRIORITY

BELLASING IWOI

DATE DISTHIBUTEDI

BASED ON,

SECRET

MiLASIAKATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFISI IS PROMINITED.

14-1-94-23

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ESTEROR MATION REPORT MECRAMI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Diard lates coat dentia

CXADENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

144050 8U16088 l500

"COUNIRY

'SUBJECT

REPORT NO.

TDCS

DATE DISTR

PRECEDINCE

DATE OF

11170

REFERANCES

IN

18237

21 ACE%

CATEACO.

AERIA AR

TMIS IS UNEVALUATED INPORMATION.

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPHAISAL OP CONTENT IS TENTATIVI

Y

. C

Y

1. ON I4 APRIL THE SON OF JOSE MIRO CARDONA ASKED THAT

ANTONIO QUESTA DEL VALLE AND RAMON FONT SAUMELL OF COMANDOS

L VISIT JOSE MIRO CARDONA, BOTH CUESTA AND FONT TOLO MIROIS

SON THAT THEY THOUGHT MIRO WAS TO BLAME FOR THE PRESENT.

SAD STATE OF CUEAN EXILE AFFAIRS AND DID NOT WANT TO

SCE MIRO; MIRO'S SON INSISTED AND CUESTA AND FONT. ACCEDED.

?. CUESTA AND FONT ARE OF THE OPINION THAT MIRO WILL SHORTLY

WITHORAW FROM THE CONSEJO REVOLUCIONARIO CUBANO (CRC, CUBAN

REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL), THEY BELIEVE THAT HE MAY BE WAITING FOR

THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION. (FIELO COMMENT,.

IT :/AS ALSO REPORTED THAI MIRA WOULO PROBABLY INSISI THAT IHE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

R

Y

OROUS I

Mood loom purea

to angror-18, 00-0

RAM

"OME

OCA

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAMI

1Ka

OUSOLITA PAIVIOCE TOSTIONA

(18-20)

---

## Page 3

;.

2

TIASATION

- DISSIMINATION CONTIOLS

18237

TOOS

PADD

COUNCIL ACCEPT HIS RESIGNATION, BUT WILL PROBABLY DELAY SUCH

ACTION UNTIL 18 APRIL AFTER HE HAS A CHANCE TO HEAR WHAT PRESIDENT

JOHN F KENNEDY WILL SAY AT HIS 17 APRIL PRESS CONFERENCE).

3• SOURCE COMMENTS THERE ARE SEVERAL COPIES OF MIROIS 25

PAGE DOCUMENT "FLOATING AROUND". THE WHOLE CRISIS OF THE CRE WILL.

SHORTLY COME TO A HEAD BECAUSE IT IS FELT BY MEMBERS OF THE CRO

THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES HAS NO PARTICULAR INTEREST

IN THE CRE. MUCH OF THE FUTURE ACTION AND PLANS OF THE CRE

WILL DEPEND ON WHETHER THEY WILL BE ABLE TO CONTINUE RECEIVINO

FINANCIAL AID FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITEO STATES.

4. FIELD DISSEMS STATE (MIAMI).

END OF MESSAGE

CLNSINCATION - DILEMINATION CONTIOLI

---

