# 104-10186-10203

## Page 1

4-00000 is

104-10186-10203

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 T

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBICT "Aristides" (an allas)

REPORT NO. CSCI-318/00516-65

DATE DISTR

8 February 1965

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

NO. PAGES

}

RSFERENCES

CS-311/00115-68

(page 10)

8 July 1961

DATE O,964

INFO.

RACE & Washington,

D.

C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

HELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INTORMATION

SOURCE ORADINOS ARE SPRINITIZ APRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE, A lOrmer Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligenco

Service until April 196s.

Headquarters Comments

The foltowing report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the

addressees take no action

on any of

the individuals mentloned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1.

"Aristides" is the administrative officer of the Departamento

Escuelas Especiales (Department of Special Schools - EE) of the

Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI), His Job title is Second Deputy Chief, Special

Schools. He takes care of records and files.

"Aristides" was born between 1930 and 1935. He is five

geven inches tall, weighs 150 pounds, and has a glender build.

Headquarters Comment

.I. The records of

"ArIstides, „this Agency reveal no identifiable information

3

2

4/od

SECRET

NO FOREIGS DISSEN

I DIA

I NAW

REP

CINCLANE CINCSO TRNS

! NSe

Sata Field astribution ta

grood by "#*.)

INCORN

TocH

FBI 2

O RISHINPOR MAN

LONAREHORT.

ДX-2312; LY 2351

5-2

CSCI-316/00546-65

BE SLiCI

BIDLAN

RE NIVE

•39O6S AH/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

11111304.

COOFDINATINA MELRASINO

BLS. LD: su

1:-5-1

tles: +50-49999802

---

