‘od-to049-10362) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]
ae, Sve

‘EGRET ;
20 October 1959 4

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Reet of Tape-Retorded Conversation in Mami Between
y + Willtam D, Pawley and an Unidentified Cubs during
a Porta 17-18 Cotober

. Le On 20.October the undersigned and of WH/3
Uatened to the play-back of a tape, brought to Washington from Mian

plans for sabotage of the coming sugar harvest as reported in UMIA~32
dated 2:October. "the second Ouben was wae AMPACKol, a Cuban Journalist
of operational interest to Station Habana, and @ separate memorsndum
1a submitted on thet conversation,

2 The untdeutified Cuban, who bad someshat of an accent and

epoke indistinctly, was difficult te understand. He mentioned a

meeting “with some af our ppople who came up from Cuba” to discuss

plang.’ Be said kis group had been contacted by 8 representative of -

General Jose: Eleutorlo PEDRAZA, loader of Cuban revolutionary groups

4n the Dominican Republic, who wanted to know what action their group !

hed taken and wag told that they had a plan “to start sabotage". ‘The |

Cuban. said the PHDRAZA representative said their group (the PEDRAZA \

group) had four. provinces < organised in Cuba, mentioning Camaguey and |
i
if
|

Santa Clara, and that they had two provinces yet to be organised —
Habana and Matansas..

3. 5 Gebes sada We group nevdsd too things <~ sored, booking ©
and moneyy he pointed out that Cubans in Cuba are efraid'to start an |
- underground movement, and there was no way to raise funds, etc. Mr. Aj
Pawley gave him no encouragement on the money angle, saying that even wal
if there were Americans willing to rug the risk of becoming involved . 1
in Cuban revolutionary activities by furcishing money for such a
movenent, which he doubted, he felt that at the present time it would
be. like “putting money down.a rat-hole” for the following reasons:
(1) there ia no. unity among the anti-CASTAO groups, and there are ab x
least 10 that he knows of who are working absolutely independently of : 1
one anothers and (2) GASTRO is in control of the country and has the
support of a large number of Cubans, especially the under-prtvileged.
Mr, Pawley said he felt the Cuban economic situation was worsening
fast and that if it gets bad enough, a large number of Cubans will
tyrn on CASTRO; but until that time comes it would be eee to
try to organise a revolutionary movement.

- SEGRET

“QOl— 773 78

poobs



x secret

ode

he Mr. Pawley asked the Cuban if his group felt they had moral
Support of the U. 8. and the Cuban replied that=they wanted U. S.
moral support but whether they had it or not, they felt they wore
obdiged to carry through with their plans. Mr. Pawley said he didn't
know what to tell him —= would have to think about it and see if any~
thing could be done. He said, “having been connected with the U. 5.
Government, I can't get. involved in revolutionary movements", Also
said he would hate to see the Dominican Goverment got involved,
which might de difficult to avold with so many Cuban exiles there,
but comented: that he understood "the Dominican Government. hasn't
given then a dime".

Martha Tharpe
~ WH/TX2/CARIB

SECRET

