# 104-10192-10019

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10192-10019

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

184/7183

1 Hovember 1960

AENORASDUA FOR TIE RECORD

SUSTANIS

Hastins With dir. Derina (Departeant of Stnte)1 Moresber 1960,

1n кy 068100

This porning Col. Hallari requeatad advico co viat to tal

I, varies concernina the artialpatod visit of Hiro Cardoon to tbe Degusa

Dent of State. It vas thoucht best to une thia opportunity to orlet tit.

Devise: ai our rocent flexible pallay the a vla tha YRD and othes coups.

a Was 11g1ted 105 8 DostID8 In visich the undersiçoos, cal.

Hallard dad troubadbes partses pacod.

2. I outlined basetly our current operational polley 1.e. our doal

insa vith the FRi am sita groups outside tre fRi as voll.

that No bad not allovad FED reprozentatives to coss to leahlnston and laboy

15 babals at theis organsationas on tos other band sany Individuals ani

Exopo in opposition to the FRI nare engagial benrily in such lobbylas

notivities.

Taus perhaps a BOuTInt mabalarnd pictura bao been palateu

of tho Franto and may lovo even taken toli. In plow of this canstueration.

szot to given to hero the IRD sens a reprosentative to Hashinetou stase

prlary joù hould ho to make cartecto uith the ONs and secondarily to

artloulate - vlo a t2s U.S. Coreriment artictali - the PRO polleL00..

3.

The sorogalaz, I sald, su called to sino by Col. Hallard's

question to En on hou to handlo tos projaotod H1r0's r1s1t to liaobinston.

roup, the departient elght Indiesto la a DOl-piaSITe My ItS GuRrenasa o

the groups abould kiro not santion the trous periago a ay coulu de sourd

to toll 11ro that for sattara valen could not be handlod by the departienit,

he undoubtedly had already bls on contacts vich Le will shad satistactary.

The discussion da Miro lod to s further exuaination of the HRP

vale: la very close to Miro.

I said tbat I uns puazlad about the HIRP

pollitent postura; I bno a number de discussics with lIl rapresentatioes

1n tbo VoS:, had recolved 1ta plationa but tisd not boon able to sade ua

ay sanà vuatior or not a Irats a luci ranijo tierpoint - the tRi donlo vera

compatibio sIto U.S. self Interenis, ls ora tani - and I referred bere

to a carpent do. Dovide lad mie protiously - impotent U.9. buuiness

roplo vouli not sivo the MP "a plase 1a call," on the otbor linou, 18021

LIke Sanches Arango, 20j3o, Fleestaz dId otbers soch to feel tbat tute

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000:

rosa rould present us with a loss souets salution to tbe problas.

Spy dIs not too viat to tilni dnd rostered stat KI. jarloe's vias

So falloidas tila exalantion a da 158, I ralsos tbe tbeoretical

question tether or not the thai stunt core so tie sea future 10r dia

U.s. to desertina unich of the munder o froups vaild cet Us. bless 15s.

Our current flexible operational polle toe, tia dealines vita a susber

al groupa la vortable anouso bert perbaza istna ietit cose a tiss. sa tse

not too distant future vain to say have to slain ox out dalt. By tb1s I

did not sesa to taply an artlelal aroveerant tant dry speciflo prot

sad been salantody rather a Initily uniertasiablo, sysparbetto aresosa

attitude lovards ans singela Cuban sagoris slait be shous.

6i le criled the sortins by statsis oes apprecia:son of savins the

apportunity to expross our on personal tiers in an InPOrtal ManDary 1a

added that. the coversation 10 no day (oos$1tetei a request for sauery

do the toples ELACUSs00.

ESTATO DROLIAR

@iso (1 Eor. 1960)

DIGETITATBION

0 - CВ F113

1 = Cardosa d0us105

---

