‘104-10780-10074 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

RETURN
- Backoroung TO cia

O-No? F;

20 August 1964

BSEOHANUUB FOR THE b&COKD
SUBJECT: Meotin: with Manuel} FAY in Sen Jose,

Costa kica
a I met vith Banse} BAY in San Jose, Costa hice
on 7 and B Auguet lvé4. ~The weetin: wae rrutine; the -

business trans tes :8 br:

fly gursarized beloz,
A. No Operations free U.S, Territory

1 reiterated to KAY that st vas oar
understanding that be would act Jasrch any
operations trom U.S, territory. fAY under
sted aoa agreed ty thin. ue id say, however,
that yumors of mech activity Could pusesbly
yoach us far the soxt few weeve na has
tt would take Rin gece Little whol. to reurscnt
the activities and thinkin, of some ol bin
fullowers, :

B. LAY Agaan Pises to lutiltrate cuba

sAY hopes tb infiitrato inte Cuba
witiin tae acxt 10 to 20 days. This new
eiturt 711] be cade fros Jazaice; The osact
point fium which .t 2:1] be made was not told
ne, but 16 26 suppigedly rca land owned by an
Anericap lis 2B Jasm@icA aod at a point
Approxieately 0 wa from Cava, The island
of Jarmica .teelf Lica more clavely te zore
than 100 wiles off (ute. FAY ts @,a.a@ little
, Confused vo oyexatisnal details tor hie spearing
of soxe bit of lend closer to Cuba that may
actcally 1012 within Janoican authority.



LAY wade o plea for @
up to $29,600 tn ercul to Serine Dia in
BOwlDE Fen, wipes and equiprert trac the U.S.
Toces eaterteis and wep will be Revo -to eosta
hee d the Ooxiniean -epiblic., involved ia
these coves are the weapsis rapiiactod on
the ¥est Qosst. } acvisud AY teat 1 would
raise this iewvue with the proper authoritics.
1p sur discussion of ta:s need LAY considered
that with 915,000 be could cunpletely resolve
the matter of the arns wanifactare and shapscat
to Couta Rica frva the “est (cast of the J.S.A.
is 825,000, Please

Tow a) that hy asicd for
Jet
Situation co The Julek
BAY indicated that the Ivacerenip of

the Jui ed, workin; effectively te sebher
Bnd th the s2t-bact. y Have sutiored
by BAY*s failure to oof. itrate ization
18 Be stevns at ths acent Av LAY
Advisud se that total JVs pexters teat

pecple was have gintec appiteation tmns bad are
tea ipa ford
pt waaner of C

aes, 19
gon te
innat

te the Jovsely=
betwern 4 to S, 000,
thet Sine is acalast ofe ane tae
oaly action tastee Cuba

B. PAY Erets 9 th Pr.
sident ?

HAY get With they three non. umedsately
op arrivin, ia Costa i advised er that
the conperstion of tase are vcellent anu
that ar could not ass for better aippert.

s that thig zatter of U.S.
feolings tovaré bis or an zation arose J :rins
President Giliebts s.fit wt Pres nb Jvansen
and that .% vac Crivcu’s sugreseicn that Er.
Juapsen aid vet know @ xarat ceal about bAT,

BAY told

lbs

samc, oR Cr MEEARE


Foy

but $hot Kr, Mann bad yond the couveraation
to sty that both wars group ans that of

AFTIME were ¢ogd ones. \-hereas tala was

FAY*s version, | sr. ‘astotterp? niet of Station,
Ban Jose, adv:did ue that br, Jouneon reportedly
stated that ATIés was the mero reapongidle ul
the tue to vhieb Piesidvat Orlict repurtcaly
countered wits, “i think Just tho uppusite io
true,” that a Quast LAY is the sure responsible
of the ¢:

3 9. 1 wot with the Chiof of Station tn Costa Eica,
(Gr. aichard kastotter, | advised him of thc reaevn for
we bein, there and we discussed thio vperation in detail.
de Qnted if it wauld act bo vise to infors the Asbassador
Of my jremene aud acbavity. i bvid wo that in view of
the fact ¢nat State was wel) avare uf our aunve\ativa
wita LAY and the possibiltty that the Ambassador piznt
hear throuch othes, channel of ty presence, 1 azreod
with (ier. nautettor, hat he ehow)d advige tho Anbasesdor
of my visit. 1 oat sono fur. vastettosfthat thie von B
fe.rly delicate matter and that tin Actasrador snoiid
understand that thie wae for ais lafernation only.

a RaHGIn, B able to
&: kastotted] tnforsi oY our degire to hoop the
fact of vur Wuppert te vAY fisted to tha Ambassador.
(Tie will be done by the Costa fican dewk of an.)

23 «You nay wieh t

ALYONGO KOOR I GURL
Bu /MA/BU/AK

