# 104-10527-10138

## Page 1

104-10527-10138

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Д. +

13.25

ne 57 164

INCE CIT

C118. 3::

IMMEDIATE KRXI

8463?

•TYPIC. BEDOX

REF: MEXI 7007 (IN 88532)

1. REQUIREXENTS FOR THIRKIST DERRIBFING OF OLSEHSKI:

A.: ASSESSHENT OF CURRENT CURAN SIONOMY AND MAJOR PROBLERS

8. ESTIMATE OF ECONOMIC FUTURE AND WHETHER ON HOT &ISTS

BEING IMPOSED ON CUBANS CAN BE MAUS YU WORK.

C. SNATUS OF RESOTIATIONS LOCK POLISE CHOAN TRADE

PROTOCOL. ANY SPECIAL PROSTENS: CAN CURANS HE COUNTED ON TO FULFILL

CONTRACTUAL OBLICATIONS?

D. PROJECTED CUSAN-POLISH TRADE LIVIL FOR 1964

, F..

WHO ARB MOST INPLUENTIAL COMAS IN MAKING ECONONIC

POLICT? ARE TRUSS BASIC DISAGRERASTS BETWEEN GUEVARA AND RAPARI

•CORTETED AND TO SO BRAT?

VALUE OP AID CIVEN CUBA BY POLAND IN 03. TOTAL FOR

BLOC IF SHOWN: AMOUNTS PROVECIED FOR 64.

G. POLISH ATTITUDE TONARD SCONQNIC AlU FOR CUBA.

". COUMENT ON WESTERN. PRESS SPECULATION RE BLOC DECISION

REDUCE AIR DRASTICALLY INLESS CURANS ACCEPT SPECTFIC BLOC GUIDANCE

PURPOSE RAPACHI VISIT CURA VINE OS BIT EPESIPLE

CONTINUED

AUTHEATICATINO

9-4 2-E-T

da.letsta..ton

REFRODUCTION RY CHER IAN TEA ISSUING OFFICE IS IRCHIGHE

---

## Page 2

16094?:

rev:

119:9

m:8=B-C-8-K-T

A 122/WG69

•{3

DELANET.

PACE TVO

CITE TIN

84637

TA: CURAT-FULISA INANS LOUS. VALUS SY EXPORZS AND

IMPORTS.

I. BE 50618E EXPETS 10 CHES SO POLAS CUANGS SANE PRICES

AS CHANCED OTIBAS AND IS DON VEIT

L. 18 MULTILATESIL PATTERES SISTEM A TERON CURA AND BLOC

USED EXTENSIVILY OR I8 CUBAT TRAME SITY BACH BLOC COUNTRY KRPT IN

BALANCHY

M. NO NUCa SOAR DID CURA Stu POLD 1R'63? BO MUCH

POR CAY MAY THE CRAVOR IP ANTE PERCE POLAND PAIO YOU SUGA &S?.

PRICE POR 84?

N.

HOS MUCH SUGAR DONS CUBA EXPECT SXPORT IN 64? TOTAL

SUCAR PRODUCTION EXPECTED SA AND EXTINT OF HURRICANZ DAMAGE:

VIS BIOS CORLD SUGAR PRICES DOS CEBi HOPE GET HIGRER PRICES PROS

30YIET3X

O INSTRIAL PIQUECTS POLARO IAS COSPLETED IN CURA SO

DATS PROJSCES UNDER COLESTRUCTION AND IRAIDOTE TO SE STRITÃO 85 ME?

TOTAL VALLE BACH PROTECY LID 80S SITE HIPISTNTEP HY COUCE LIT

CONTI REND

: 86-3-5-57610

Peg lock in sentar soa

5r4 1e

---

## Page 3

crani circa

taj.

preter

PECT TI

AND MIE FI

84637

AS BALANI? RELATIONa

OTHEd NICE TECHS AND CURANS.

IVEN FARIOT BLOC CUS-

TINGENTS. IP FRICTIONS EXIST WHAT CAUsEs

THEN AND WHAT ARE KUVICTS?

Q. DO CUBAN ONFICIALS. AND TECHS. GO

PRALLY ACCENT ALL

FOLLON SUIDANCE OF BLOC ADVISERS?

THAT. IS KITINY OY HAC ATISIN

INFLUSTICE?

THAT CUBAN OFFICIALS DIES CUISH, DEAL HITA ASD THAI

IS ESTIMATE OF TABIR CORP

ANY CHANCE

• HOTD IN LEVEL OP COR

PETINCE IN RECKIT PARIOD? WHAT DO CURALS NE MALS "ITE RALLY THINK

OF CUBAN GOVT?

IND

OF MASSAGE

C/S CONMENT: *REF. PYBAT:

C/SAS/INTEL

9KK

12560

C/WR/3

MIARD A. MARBLING

¡RELLARIME, OFFICER

Suje4-100

jdcidks.i.al.om

REPRODUCTIOH DY OTICE THAI THE ISSUING OFEICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

