i ns

pioastori20s10378 _ [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

i; wt

88/10-61-0066

3 February 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Central Cover Group

ATTENTION : Mr. Thomas Strange

SUBJECT : Basic Proposal to Cover Field Assessment
of Potential REDSXIN Agent Candidates

1. A meeting was held 1 February 1961, to discuss the
feasability of conducting field assessment of potential REDSXIN
agent candidates by staff psychologists of the Assessment and
Evaluation Staf2, OTR, under suitable(non-official) cover. ;
Conferees were Messeurs Thomas Strange and @ohn Lynch)pt Central {
Cover Group, John Gittinger of TSD, Dr Ganes Lau) and ir, John :
Golder of the ASE Staff, OTR, and Fielder Dudley of SR/10. The
problem discussed in para 2 below was recognized and tentative '
ba cheetahs reached on the basic proposal discussed in para 3

elow. :

2. Heretofore field assessments have been conducted by-
SR/10 case officers whose capabilities in the rather esoteric
science of psychological assessment are, at best, based funda- |
mentally on intuition and subject to variable degrees of objec-
tivity. Furthermore these case officers reveal their Agency,
connection on initial contact supported by credentials in alias,
Thus Sil agent Candidates screened in the field becone awaré of —
Agumey interest to exploit legal travel to the UsSi Tor intelligence
purposes, ‘These include a considerable percentage who are screened |
out during the initial interview or subsequently as a result of

Headquarters assessuent.
3. The Probles:

a. To screen out unsuitable REDSXIN agent candidates |
without revealing Agency interest and to raduce possibilities
of irrational reaction, i.e., going to the Press or writing’
letters to the President when later approached by an Agency
representative proposing aa intelligence mission. }



apy

- spotter net

ee ns

S8R/10-~61-0066 cont.

Basic Proposal to Cover Field Assessment
of Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates

b. To restrict revelation of SR Division safe apart-
ments, staff employees and general tasks germane to REDSXIN
operations only to those candidates most likely to be
accepted. for recruitment.

c. To cut down on the necessity of processing Provisional

Operational Approvals on all leads to be contacted for initial

4. Basic Proposal:

i
screening, thereby reducing the heavy workload now impose: :
on the Office of Security and the CI Staff by SR/10, ae)

q

a. To send staff psychologists of the ASE Staff, OTR,
to conduct field fessments, when feasible, of, potential
REDSKIN agent candidates, based on leads furnished b:

dork The staff. psychologist:
the gs _enoloyees or consultants o

a well establishe tary of
Py @rviews on hehalf of anonymods \put actual
clients in he fields of education, industry, ommerce and .
governnent/ (doth federal and state). Other established a
proprietary caver can be provided if and when appropriate.
The proprietary organizations can provide full “backstonping”
throughout every normal working day. Appropriate documenta- -
tion is to be provided in true name or alias, whichever is
appropriate in any particular case.

b.. As & test run, twelve potential REDSKIN agent :
candidates in the New England area have been selected for
initial contact and assessment by Dr. Joby Golder as soon
as this proposal hag been concurred in and approved, Candi-
dates in the Midvest are tentatively scheduled for screening
by Dr. Ganes Lau)during the latter half of February.

oO a :

c. Those agent candidates recomme! ded as likely prospects
by the staff psychologists will then be contacted by S710
¢ Gers, when Provisional Operattonat-Approvals have

been “granted, Gho will ascertain willinguess and availability fh

z travel in the USSR on intelligence missions. When
response is affirmative each candidate will be invited to
Yashington for full Headquarters assessment and possible
recruitment,



oye!

SR/10-61-0066: cont.

SUBJECT: Basic Proposal to Cover Field Assessnent
of Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates

5. Earliest consideration of this proposal is requested
so that the time consumming screening and processing of suitable
REDSKIN agents can be accomplished in tine for utilization during
tha 1961 travel season. :

6, Any questions concerning this proposal should be directed
to Fielder Dudley, SR/10, extension 8297. -

Deputy bry SR Div: 3
