# 104-10217-10139

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10217-10139

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1 3759

SECRETARIAT DISSELIMATION E

,, Fairies

RorTro

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIEST

SECRET

2000o.

5

When Filled Ind

REPRODUCTION OF ¡MIS CORY APDNTGITES

ROUTINO ANDOR INITIALE

8т:.

AST OV

196

. З

PER

FILE, VR

c/Re/As, DDe, ADDR, C/sas 3, c/Er 2, e/ce

SECRET 281681Z APR 71 CITE SHIMIAMI 11178

DIRECTOR INFO CARACAS

•

RYBAT AXULE TYPIC AMECRU ANSIGH ANCALL•

REF DIRECTOR 133367

Zefeat: 321845

• 1. ON 25 APRIL 1971, AMSIGH-2 MET MITH AMECRU-T 1W

THE LATTER'S HOME. AMECRU-1 TOLO AHSIGH-2 THAT HE MET

"ITH TUE PARUMEN AMBASSADOR TO FRANCE ON HIS LAST DAY IM

PARISO THE AMBASSADOR SUGGESTEO TO AMECRU-1 THAT HE ASK

PRESIDENT CALDERA TO FREE THE THO PBRUMEN PRISONERS HELO

IN VENEZUELA WITHOUT ANYTHING IN EXCHANGE. THE AMBASSADOR

STATED THIS WAS HIS ONN IDEA AND HE HAS NOT FOLLOTING

INSTRUCTIONS FROM HIS GOVERNMENT.

2. SHILE IN VENEZUELA, AMECRU-I HAD AN INTERVIES

VITH PRESIDENT CALDERA, WITH THE MINISTER OF INTERIOR, AHD

WITH THE MIMISTER OF FOREIGN RELATIONS. AMECRU-1 BAS

REPORTEDLY TOLO BY ONE OF THE FOREGOING VENEZUELAM OFFICIALS

THAT THE MOST RECENT OFFER MAS UNACCEPTABLE TO THE TEBEZUELAN

GOVERNMENTO AMECRU-1 DAS TOLD THAT VENEZUELA MOUL ACCEPT

A PBRUKEN OFFER TO EXCHANGE EIGHT POLITICAL PRISONERS FOR THE•

THO BEING MELO BY VENEZUELA.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

/ 37508

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE

PAGE 2 SHIMIAMI IIITOSE CRET

3O THE FOREGOING EXCHANGE IS REPORTEDLY CONTINGEMT

UPON FHU 1 8 ARR A (NO STATION TRACES) A VENEZUELAN, BEING

ONE OF THE EIGHT MEN RELEASED. AMLIGHT -1 MOULE NOT NECESSARILY.

MAVE TO BE INCLUDED INASMUCH AS AUTHUG-D SIMPLY DOES HOT

VANT TO RELEASE MIM. VENEZUELAN SOURCE ALLEGEDLY SAIO

THAT AMCALL-1 MOULO OCCUPY THE NUMBER TUO POSITION IN

VENEZUELAN NEGOTIATIONS.

AMPUG-T AND EMINE-S MOULO ALSO

BE INCLUDED IN THESE NEGOTIATIONS AMECRU-I OFFERED NO

OTHER DETAILS OF THIS TRANSACTION TO AMSIGH-2.

SO IN PARIS AMECRU-1 NAS TOLO CUNSPECIFIEO SY BHOM)

THAT THE FAMILIES OF AMCALL-1 AND ANHINT-S MOULE HAVE TO

BE PATIENT AND WAIT UNTIL THE PBRUMEN GOVERNMERT DECIDED

SHAD TIRE HAS OPORIUNE TO FREE THESE MER. IF FAMILIES

DID HOT WISH TO WAIT AMECRU-1 MOULD ATTEMPT TO HAVE THEIR

MONIES REFUNDED.

5. RHECRU-1 ADDED THAT VANISTENDAEL BROTE A LETTER

, WHICH HE FORMARDED TO THE PBRUMEN GOVERSMENT. IT STATED

:THAT INHEN FREEDS ANCALL -1 MOULO REMAIN IN EUROPE TO

:MORK. VANISTENDAEL GAVE MIS PERSOMAL ASSURANCE ANCALL-1

MOULO NOT PARTICIPATE IN ACTIVITIES AGAINST ANTING-?

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Get an a to riggap

+375J

CRESTFIãO MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE 3 MHIMIAMI 111T0 SECRET

6a VANISTENDAEL TOLD AMECRU-1 THAT AS A RESULT OF

THEIR BELIEF THAT ANCALL-1 MOULO BE RELEASED, THE BELGIANS

GAVE. THE PBRUMENS TVELVE SCHOLARSHIPS SIX MONTHS AGO.

971949149

PAGE

FURMITURE AND GOING TO

APRILO ME INTENOS TO SPEMO THE NEXT NO MONTHS THERE.

IN JUNE HE VANTS TO GO BACK TO PARIS TO MAKE ANOTHER TRY

AT GETTING AMCALL-1 AND AMMINT -3 RELEASED.

8O ON 26 APRIL AMECRU-1 DEPARTED MIAMI FOR NEN YORK.

9. AMSIGH-Z'S REPORT ON HEETING WHICH GIVEN TO

BINIARIS ON 26 APRIL BEING POUCHED.

18. FILEs +61-8618658 281-2759

281-312385.

6P1.

SECRET

SECRET

---

