THod-10088-10319) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF a |

FOS
“37/ SECRET BP sigtetenigti;tgiae
Dec e 9 on MTT STAFF
CONF: LA-8 INFO: FILE, VR» DDO-4, DDA, C/PCS. CCSm2, CieNd,

COMMO=7, CWO-2, EPS/EG=2, IP/DMS, LSN/ID, ODPD=D, OGC=2, OLC, PCS/LSN.
cS) 7 SECUR@3. (43/P)

77 0106185 _ PAGE 001
TOT: 0801032 DEC.77 DIRECTOR 135665
Sb G Ree y
STAFF 060103Z DIRECTOR 135665
TO: IMMEDIATE MEXFCONCT WV

. Ny

WNINTEL RNVIEW MHSPLASH
REF: DIRECTOR 135229

1. ON 7 DECEMBER THREE MEXICO DESK OFFICERS REVIEWED 38
FBI FOLDERS ON LEE HARVEY OSWALD WHICH WERE
AMONG DOCUMENTS RELEASEDON FOIA THAT
SAME DAY. COPIES OF ALL SIGNIFICANT DOCUMENTS BEARING ON MEXICO
WERE MADE AND WILL BE POUCHED TO STATY@NR ASAP. IN GENERAL VAST
MAJORITY OF DOCUMENTS UNCONTROVERSIAL, AND DEAL WITH INVESTIGATION
OF OSWALD'S TRIP TO MEXICO, ALL OF WHICH IS ALREADY IN PUBLIC DOMAIN,
PRINCIPALLY IN WARREN COMMISSION REPORT.

2. MOST POTENTIALLY DAMAGING DOCUMENT FOUND TO DATE IS
FOLLOWING 27 NOV 1963 MEMORANDUM FROM A.H. BELMONT TO UNE MR, TOLSON?:
"ASSISTANT DIRECTOR SULLIVAN CALLED TO ADVISE THAT CIA HAS INFORMED
US THAT MEXICAN AUTHORITIES HAVE ARRESTED SYLVIA DURAN, JUST AS SHE
WAS ABOUT TO LEAVE FOR CUBA. CIA WANTED TO KNOW IF WE OBJECTED TO
MEXICAN AUTHORITIES INTERROGATING DURAN VIGOROUSLY AND EXHAUSTIVELY.
wE AGREED TO THIS INTERROGATION. THEY WILL GIVE US THE RESULTS OF
THE INTERROGATION PROMPTLY. SYLVIA DURAN IS THE MEXICAN NATIONAL
WHO WORKED IN THE CUBAN CONSULATE WHO REPORTED THAT OSWALD HAD BEEN
IN THE CONSULATE AT THE END OF SEPTEMBER AND ON OCTOBER 1, 1963,

TO SEEK ASSISTANCE IN GETTING A VISA FOR RUSSIA."

3. DESK OFFICERS PLAN TO COMPLETE REVIEW OF “OSWALD” FOLDERS
8 DECEMBER. WILL ALSO BEGIN REVIEW OF "BORDER OPERATIONS" FOLDERS
TO ATTEMPT TO LOCATE ITEMS REFERRED TO IN MEXICO CITY 43148.

4. UNO MAS UNO" JOURNALIST RAYMUNCO RUA (SIC) PALACIOS,
wAS ALSO IN FBI REAUING ROOM 7 DECEMBER AND CHECKED OUT FIVE FOLDERS
ON THE OSWALD CASE.

5. FILE: 200-120-150. 2, IMPDET.>

ORIG: LA/MGSB/M (T. CHAMBERLIN X1034)% COORD: PCS/LSN (KUHN),
DC/LA/N (DESMOND? AUTH: C/LA/MGSB CHAWKINS)$ REL? C/LA (WARREN)?

{of eee bat 029163.
OT22S-

ENN AE Meccan S

