[104-10194-10016] {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

1 a.

—

AUER gpI AT GLA HEADY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATLONS STAPF
Bi

;
FILE TETLE/NBER/VOLUE: TAL AEE, Cua ; \
. a i}

se

inclusive pates: _¢ /y¥/sé ifs le: 1

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: OF ers, Of Er eaae ( 1
“ROOM: ge /3

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

SIGNATURE OF 1 —
REVIEWING OFFICIAL 3



28 March 1057

Mrs, . ana Tarasoff
2819 Gainesville Street, S. &., Apt. 202
Washington, Dc

Dear Irs. Sarasoff:

“Ne wish to inform you that the preliminary processing of
your application has been accomplished and that you may enter
on duty immediately on a temporary basis at Grade GS-4, sal-
ary $:-415.C9 per annum as Clerk.

Your temporary appointment will be subject to taking an :
oath of office, signing a loyalty affidavit, and completing a med-
teal examination which will include determination of physical
health end emotional stability. If you enter on duty based on this

preliminary processing, you will be assigned to the Interim Assign- |

ment Section pending the completion of the full processing and a
finalsecurity interview. The Interlin Assignment Section Is a
*‘pool’? where you will be doing clerical work of a routine nature.
Should anything of an unfavorable nature arise during this period,
your employment will net result in & permanent appointment; other-
wise you then will be placed cn duty in the Position for which em-
ployed.

If you are interested in this temporary position please call
Mrs, on EXscutive 3-6115, extension 2781, as soon
as possible to advise her of the exact date you will report. We
would appreciate your selecting a Monday. You may prefer to await
the completion of the full processing: which will require about 60 to
90 more days. In any event we would appreciate your calling Mrs.
vrom tly and informing her of your plans. In ths meantime,
it is raquested that you submit three. passport-size photographs of
yoursclf as soon as possible.

Please report to the Receptionist at Curle Hall at 8:15 am,
andask for Mrs.|_ Jon the reporting-for-duty date that you
establish with this office. Curie Hail [s located at the intersection
of 23rd Street, Independence Avenue and Chiu Drive, S.W., with
entrance on Ohio Drive.

1
|


imployees of this /gency are entitled to the regular United
States Government leave and retireraent benefits.

‘The gross salary. quoted will te subject to deductions for
Federal Income tax and 6 percent for the United States Civil
Servic? Retirement Fund. In additicn, the benefits of low-cost
group life fiisurance are available to Federal civillan employees.
The enclosed pamphlet outlines the features of the program and
lists. thu amount which will be deducted from your salary each pay

period for.this term insurance. This insurance {is not obligatory.

Howevar, if you do not wish coveraga, which is automatic, you
should sign a Waiver of Life Insurance Coverage form at the time
you erter on duty.

You will not recelve a pay check for approximately four
weeks after you enter on duty.

will te glad to discuss

It you have any problems, Mrs.
them with you when you call.

Very truly yours,

G. M, Stewart
Director of Personnel

Enclosures (2)
~lfe Insurance Pamphlet

Map
OP/CURRE3/bjs(UBIX (PI)


2-5 and 2-12-57
Bueee

jusbandy ac “ employee NDICES CLEARANCE REQUSSTFD!
\

CLERICAL & COMMUNICATIONS.
REPORT OF INTERVIEW

Mawe (have > Feat > @rdatey [waaita status

Ms 2 chilcren F

esville Street S.F., Vasi

aSSaU ss

Position atcomomage Crave and Tetley

CEPTABLE STATION

Ld esreseer eee

o

Conte Cspeer ty

fF conditions stipulated)

tivtarioys o/s per husband's assignments

cre) [FoRereN wECA TIVES

Generally good

us
BACKGROUND END EVALUATION
F any (Premary and duty WOS and length of sn each, teaimings datee of patrance and @i

Pateda stad tea) woes CASA
x nto SO] SFE M
lovacgation No #atetnvune Bata (IACTOTE_eTGeaTTOR asd Tah SaBTTTAETY :
Msp Tarasoff is the wife of’ Roris Tarasoff, FDU employee. She first mace applicatija

shortly after her husband's EOD while she and the children were still in California.
Attempts te have her te:ted and interviewed on the West-Coast were unsuccessful.

The farily is all now gathered in D.C.3 the chileren are in school; arrangements
have be:n mace for the care of the children during the lage between the end ef
the school day and the end of the parents work: days

Test results are very interestin,. It would appear tiat Mrs. Tarasoff shoudd be
able to co @ most adequate job in a clerical job of the most deadly reutine natures
Tim quite sure such positions are available in the Agencys

Mra. Taraseff apparently has a reasonably good command of Ruesian, both spoken and
written; I gathered that some of the household conversation is carried on in that
languages HOWEVER, I gave her absolutely no assurance that we would be able te
utilise this skill.

She is interested in employnent as seon as possible and I discussed an Indices
Clearance with her, The Pool, the tensorary indefingte appointwent, et al» wer
deseribed in lurid detail. She is willing and interested.

Personally, I fend Mrs, Taracoff to be a very pleasant little woman, She is slight
and slender with reddish hair; smiles easily and appears as easy te work with,

GSeh Clerk agreeable aid recommended.

INDICES CLEARANCE ROGUESTED

DATE #erour ans seed F39es8DED TO He

CONFIDENTIAL . : arse


after ny discussion with the field repre:
of the following conditions of eaploynent:

CONFIDENTIAL

(Men Pitted fa)

EMPLOYMENT INFORMATION

ntative, I wish to xckoowledge the existence

A Qualifications:

(1) upon ay crrival in Washington I underotand I vill de te

(2) T understand that should © fat

BL Intttal pi

to deteruine

(al ay General aptitude: (b) ay typing okill If T ax Seing considered for a
{yPing position, the mininun standards for which are &@ vonis per aiaute net
ohesd: (ce) ay stenographic skill if I am being considered for « atenographic
Sacre otartal position, the minimun standards for wsics are QO vords per
ainute accurate transcription with at least 40 words per minute net typing
speed, |

1 to meet the mininun standants as outlined
shove I will be given an opportunity to receive refrester training. ds acon
Ss fam able to meot the prenceibed standards I will then te assigned to»
pooltyon within the organtzation, If, within a reasonable period of tiee, I
should fail to meet the minimum skilia ‘requirements, : understand thatl vill
de aoaigned to a position not requiring specific skit:s If sacha position
Skistes (Por example: An individual initially selected as a Clerx-typist

who 1a not able to qualify fully as a typiot would te assigned to any avatle
able clerical position.)

T understand there are initial placenont procedures, inctuticg the testing
and refresher training outlined above, that may require a period of several
Neeks before I an given my specific Job asslgnnent. = have had explained
to ne the operations of the interim svaignnent group vtere I may expect to
Feceive the testing and refresher training mentioned acd shere I will vork
pending my apecific Job assignment.

Posetbilt tes:

Qrereeas Possibilities:

(1) T have not Been promised an overseas assignment, f underatazd t aust dene
onstrate fully ny abilities while on a Washington, D.C. assiganent after
wich I say be considered for whatever positions xay exist for which I am
Gvalified, The dectaton to asatgn' me to an overseas fost rests vith respons
sidle individuats in the Washington office.

(2) T understand that from past experience of the organization f
renain on a Washington assignaent from 14 to 2 years tefore 7 nay be conside
ered for an overseas post.

(3) T understand that overseas assignnents in the clerical acd gener!

D. General

Date:

adatinis~
trative categories require, for most positions, typing ant stecographic
skills,

T understand that any eventual asstgnsent to a professional tyre position, if
T an qualified for such by specific education, training, or exserience, vill
depend upen the existence of a suitable vacancy and that no promises to the
contrary have been

or chy Waase SX ben sii
Signature of Applicads

rome 5. a9 - CONFIDENTIAL ‘ “



CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY cee
WASHINGTON 25, D. C. :

Applicant Information
Sheet No. 1 | :

To all persons applying for employment . |
with the Ceatral Intelligence Agency:
7

This paper is the first step in applying for employment or consultant
“status with the Central Intelligence Agency, No application may proceed
beyond this first step if the applicant is not in agreement with the
conditions stated below:

General Considerations:
hc rations

1. The National Security Act of 26 July 1947 (Public Law 253, 80th :
Congress) which created the Central Intelligence Agency places upon the
Agency the responsibility: |

a. Mto advise the National Security Council in matters concerning
Such intelligence activities of the Government departments and agencies
as relate to the national security;

b. "to make recommendations to the National Security Council
for the coordination of such intelligence activities of the depart- !
ments and agencies of the Government as relate to the national
Security;

¢. "to correlate and evaluate intelligence relating to the
national security, and provide for the appropriate dissemination
of such intelligence within the Government... ;

d, "to perform, for the benefit of the existing intelligence
agencies, such additional services of common concern as the National |
Security Council determines can be more efficiently accomplished
centrally; :

e. "to perform such other functions and duties related to |
intelligence affecting the national security as the National Security
Council may trom time to time direct.

y) A |



Inis clearance - perhaps sometl

‘The special character f this national responsibility requires the Agency :
to maintain correspondingly special employment criteria which may be {
different from the routine or normal employment ‘standards of other Govern=

rent departments and agencies ‘whick do not have the highly sensitive res-
It follows that the

the Central Intelligence Agency.

- pon: ty borne by
* investigation of applicants prerequisite to their acceptance is a time-
which, in addition to loyalty and security cheeks, ry

nal fitness, and [3

consuming process
includes evaluation ‘of competent
availability of-a:suitable positiot
This is called "clearance".of an applicant,
2. Investigation of an applicant may reveal something which prevents
hing of which the applicant is genuinely unaware; !
‘perhaps something which only the ‘special employment criteria of the Agency
make unacceptable. adverse findings by the Agency are cone
clusive and final so fur as the d no statement of !
specific reasons is made to the applicant. :

ce, physical and emotior

ent such time as employment may be offered.
}

In any event,
Agency is concerned, an

¢ Agency is not a right upon
t which is subject to full
«a commitment on the Agency's part giving an
for any claim against the Agency. Acceptance

arance is at the applicant's risk,
of applicants :

ment by the Central Intelligence:

3, Employ:
Offer of employmen

which an applicant can insist.
clearance does not constitute
unsuecessful applicant grounds
of employment upon the condition of cle
taken with the knowledge that « very substantial percentage

are not cleared.

Statement of Understanding

and Agreement
erereererrs eee 1

undérstand, and agree to the foregoing General Consid-'
t by the Central Intelligence
h those consid- !

Ihave read,
erations. If not accepted for emp
Agency, I will make no claim or

loymen
demand in conflict wit

erations.

Thave also seen and read Applicant Information She:

Signature of Ap

et No. 2. bie

CA

SR cat PUSS RMON ctanectes


"SECRET ones

(Aden Fitted tn)

Date ParPaae

6 September 1963

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

Twa (Last Peers),

1. Strvat suvetm

025935 _TARASOFF, ANNA - = i

UCTive OATE MeaNLSTEO] 8. CATEGORY OF EuPLOvMENT

—19_tia_los

7 cgay centen ne, Cxanae-
out

REGULAR

lurwowity (Completed By!
Pereonnet)

RESIGNATION (FROM LWOP)

+. Funes Pe

¥, ORCARIEATIONAL OCS

DDP CI STAFF : i f

,

= 4227-1990-1000

Vo. Locarion oF OFFiciaL STaTiom

voy
cr 10

CS/CS/ DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT WASHINGTON, D.C,

0301, 27 L GS- 6 4 545

ere FROM: DDP/CI STAFF/CS/CS/DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT/
, INTELLIGENCE CLERK/WASH,, D,C,/# 9997

INTELLIGENCE CLERK, a 49997
: . ) [es accuratronat states [ve, ceane ano arc
5!

Memorandum of Resignation attached
ce to Security & Finance

Subject is re-employable in the opinion of CI Staff

Gonsesrare. 6/9163

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE OF THE OFFICE OF 1
GE CeO Em ET ea EEE
cre oot

[ea pes 33

SWAT ATiON bata]

CE -
ea
TGNATURE OF CARE

LES’

 apraoving EE

crerreamaarreS TEES

Exc
aereetece

Re Or Th gpa aN) Te
oy iat

a SCCAITY 80,

Jo, cane ©

catletie [eco
Paoy/tene

eaten Tua Date Ss

Date APPROVED”

2b hones

az)

SECRET



SECRET

Cane Palted In)

_EMPUOYEE NOTICE OF RESIGN

1 ataten eercerive ECE OE Tay voucons
(ated

gen 1 sa FH 88

REASON:

earn £ dA
maw ROOM Ze. tagaa note

I re ee LEED:

WY LAST WORKING DAY WILL OE > Dare sraNeo

City. done, State)

FORBARD COMMUNICATIONS, INCLUDING SALARY CHECAS AND BONDS, TO THE FOLLOWING ADOREDA (AueBer ST

INSTRUCTIONS
The initiating office should fill th cach of the referenced items.
Items 3. thru 7 and 9 thru 18 require informition which pertains only
to the action requested, and NOT to the current: status of the
ployee unless specific {tems remain unchanged.

Items 1 thru 7
and -
Items 9 thru 18

"Catcgory of Enployment™ should show one of the following entries:

Item 5 5 =
Regular asians Sumner “WAE
Part Time Detail Out Consultant
Temporary : Detail In Military
Tenporary - Part Time
Item 9 - “Organizational Designations" should show all levels of organization
pertinent to identifying the location of the position:
py[Mader Component (Director, Deputy Director, ete.)
E5LOffice, Major Staff, etc,
Division or Staff (sutordinate to first Line)
Branch .
_ Section

Unit

"Position Title" should reflect the. standard’ abbreviated title given
in the most current edition of the Position Coutrol Res:
ported on Form 261,,.Staffing Complement Change Autheri

ore than one

the Career Service to which the employee Belongs. If
sld_aycrove|

Cureer Service is involved, the-guining Carser Service
and the other Career Service should concur in Item

ROUTING - The original only of this form will be forvarded to the Ortice of Personnel
through the appropriate Career Service official(s). requests
Specified in HB 20-800-1, which require advance approval of or notification to
the Office of Security or the Office of tho Comptroller, one cory 11 be

sent to the Office(s) concerned.

SECRET


MHCr 26 SLPI BS

_ NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

GF

T stent uae iy Wat (AST FANT BIDDLE) ~~

025935 =| TARASOFF ANNA

Tanne 6 PeeoAmET ATION TCT wait 5 aan oF arora
RESIGNATION FROM _LWOP 09; 68 (63 REGULAR
|, > Ix rer | vice aah GHiT Cane HO cwadceanLe [0 GC OR OTWER LEGAL an ;

°F | ay if owe w227_ 1990 1 : =

TE LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

‘F ORGANITATIONA DESIGNATIONS

| rain Fao wane Tae TN
INTELLIGENCE CLERK 9997 o
TTT TOBE Tach Te Rapa TTY DE Tan AT
as 0301.27 06 4 | SONS, et

Te tanita

"SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION.

Form + Use Previous -
vier SO Nation


SECRET

__-_cthen Futted Im

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

|

Dare PRcraneo

5 June 1963

D, NATURE OF PERSENNEL ACTION

SLOP ‘89 REESE

3. CATEGORY OF CuPLovMENT

ieee PE

Office ef Pecuonnel)

Lecae autwonity (Completed dy

‘ORGANIZATIONAL EUSUENATIONS,

DDP CI STAFF

CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT

KASHTI

ON,

TO. LOCATION GF OFFICIAL STATION

V. POSITION TITRE

ye

Te. POSITION MUVAER

7 EARECR SERVICE OFSIGRATH

CHTSLLY CLERK : ¢k 9997 D
V4. CLASSIFICATION SCHTILE (1 ete.) ] 15. occupations sigies [16. GRACE ANO STEP ‘47. SALARY OR RATE ca
csee” i : ee

RSet bs 4 5,545.

Employee's last vorking day 7 June 1963.

not to exceed D days.

ec to security and finance

(rr /SPECIAL INVESTIGATION GPOUP/PROJECTS FRA/TIELL CLK/WASH., D.C/O152

LWOP (WHE 20-1 Para. 10 a.) Leave of absence to acconpeny husband to new ststion +

Te hoger won tapecralety

{ [Recorded by)
csPD

Cf ccurrcad Lech

Tony S1enaTUAE OF OEGULSTING OFFIETAL Gate sianto  [rasajennvage ov cantta stavice aprdoving[oate siaqro
ie
I STAFF | 5 Jun 63 ou ees La me tele
BELOW FOR FXCLU: USE_OF THE OFFICE OF PF SNES
i

at Fane

FE pRwenay =
cho

| 28243

mer ate =

3a. cotta canetone

cana [aoe
pace rte

ee 1152 SECRET



= 7 SECRET

7 i300 Filled tay

Dare PReParen
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTI
— 5 Sune 1963

waut (Lost-Firet-widdley

SERTAL nouDER

025935 | _“TARASOFY,. ANNA

WATURE OF PERSONNEL acTION

LWOP. AND REASSIGHMENT
> X]v tov vero cr
FUNDS
crow cr v0

Srerrective oate searestea] 8. CaTecory-cF CurLovwenT

7, cost CENTER MO. CwaRCE |. At CAL AUTMOBITY
ane

Site Sree
3221-1990-1000

TO. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

3. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGHAT

DDP CI STAPF
CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT WASHINGTON, D.C.

12. Position muvoce 7 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

OsiTiow TETLe

UOWTELL CLERK 5 9997 D Hit

= CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LD, efe.)|13- OCCUPATIONAL SERIES [10> GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

os 033.01 6 4 * 5,585.

EUARKS

FRO: DDP CI STAPP/SPECIAL INVESTIGATION GROUP/PROJECTS ER/INTELL CLX/WASH., D.C/0151

Euployee'a last working dey 7 June 1963.

LWOP (HB 20-1 Para. 10 a.) Loeve of absence to accompany husband to now statioa -
not to exceed 90 dayn.

ce to security and finsace

pare, stanco

GeauesTina OFFICIAL DATE iexi> T= SicwaTuae OF CAREER SEAVICE APPROVING

Aye il oreicea
we CI sway | 5 Jus 63 |

¥

¥

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCL
i erriar CeBie

Sten
serene

ote Appacves

[ats 0.P. APPROvAL

SECRET



/A25935,

SECRET -

ea

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTIO;
—L

25 November 1960

Tr mat (Lasts Fieet-weddtey

TARASOFF, ARMA»

3. NATURE OF PLASONMEL-acTIOm

PROMOTION.

CL.

Toevecerive bate BCwIESTES|

Leslee

Ty CATEGORY OF FUPLOWENT

a ol

7. cost COMTER WO. Onameee

os [ee or
eirig feaieieetitithees igor ia

S. ONGANIEATIOWAL DEDIGNATIONS

DDP CI STAFF
SPECIAL INVESTIGATION GROUP

PROJECTS BRANCH _ c

10. vocal

IN OF OFFICIAL STATION

DC.

We

Positecy TiTee

12. Position

0151

Po CONTROL ROL] 13. CAREEA StAVICL

besicwarion

D

GS 4 Btomr=-66-6)

0301.27

INTELL CLERK Dame ial estste 151 este [a ae
.¥ pee
oa | Se hye

weunaxs,

\_EROM: = DDP cI STAFF/SIG/PROJECTS BRANCH/O151
a

Memorandum of recommendation attached.

vo

vou

Hewateae or 7pverrine ori

x A CI STAFF

Wve APPROVING OF

BELOW FORK ENCLES

Pesan

SECRET



: REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

T Sonal No. |. Nome (Loxt-Firss Middle) 7
Code

5 TARASOFF ANNA

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT :
Code] 15. Location OF Official Station

F7, Organizational Designations

pop Ci STAFF

SPECIAL PROJECTS DIV
PROJECTS BRANCH {siz [| WASH, D. C. 159013,
[Ti Position Vito TE Postion No, 19, Sone] 8 Ossi Soret

Gs 0301.27

0151.05

INTEL_CLK :
191. Grade @ Stop | 82. Solary Or Rote [23. SD a iGredal® —__]86. Appropriation Nuaber
Me Ms.
3850.90 DS 08 | 08} a On Bxa70HxBR_9-2T00-17-001

ACTION ae)
[27. Nature Of Action Fode 188. fH. Dato 129. Type Ot Employee
Me Oa. Ve :
Promotion ' Reguler
iicay¥
PRESENT ASSIGNMENT iH
31, Organizational Designations : Cods | 38. Location OF Oficial Station Station Code
DDP/CI Stefr +
Special Projects Div
: Washington, D.C.

Projects Brench

E Ati iy
fa Boge Fisk [30 Pasion Vo 357 Boaiion No. [36 Sen a7 Oxeabs Serion—f
‘Code|
yee: | 3.| Intel cue | 0151.05 os | 0301.27
38. Grade @ Step| 39. Solary Or Rate [40. SD ]a1. Date Of Grade | 42. P31 Ove 43. Appropriation Number
Mo Oe Ye,
7 z
5 1 | Wo'o.00 pa | DS Pe (CF { ford 9-2700-17-002 im
: —soure ot itabst '
a, Rea Boia on [E Roavost Asproved By (Signature And Tule)
Ot Flotation Call (one 8 Yelaphono Ex) oth Mae
 ESEEESESHEEEEEEEEEEEEED stn <u $. Herman Horton DC/CI Staf?
= CLEARANCES. ~ i
Clearance Siankure ye Clearance] Signatute [tee
A. Career Board A AAP. hak TIDY 5 JO. Plocesent i |
a B. Pos. Central ei eeiy eT Te P
IC. Classification a ol IF. Approved B¥ an I
Remarks a i
Rromotion recomendations attached. ay ii

Fons NS,
TaanSy 1152



OS OFFICE OF PERSONNE
PERSONNEL ASSIGNMENT C1¥
PLACEMENT BR CLERIC

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT i

‘Code “] 15. Locanen OF Oficial Station

INTERIM ASSIGNMENT SECT : SI UJ /
c id_117. Postion Toe 18 Position No. [19 ae 9 Series ie
CLERK Ics 0301.26. fl
21. Grade a Step] 22. Salary Or Saw [83. D [24.Doto Of Grode | 25, PSI Ove 186. Appropriation Number ia
$ ‘Mo. Da. Yi. | Mo. Oa. Vr. Ki
plat 345 UD o4 108 157 lok 120 155 18 6509 20 |
ACTION |
: \
fr Nowra Of Action Date. 29. Type OF Eaployeo [Cede] 30. Separation Dara if
Ms: 1 Ye. 1
Reassignmont | [ eee Regular it :

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

31. Organizational Dosignazions
WP/CI star
Special Projects Division
)Projects Branch

Code [32 Locatien C¥ Olficial Station

Weshington, D.C,

Station Code

FY
33 Vere Field [3a Poston Tae = Besition No._]35. Sew [37 Occup. Sevier
Der ‘ode|
liga: D | Intel Cleck
}38. Grade @ Step | 39. Salary Or tame (ao $0
oa 2 |* sus. | os

A. Recveited By (Name And Title)

[C. Request Appxpved By (Sigrhturp And Tita)

B._For Additional informatica Call (Name a Telechare Ba)
x 4281

(hee I aek

Signe T Doie

Es Va
CLEARANCES |
Ciasfonce

Signature Date

i

D. Placement

Erie

IE Clssihcation

Rescris Temporary double slet with]

FORRES 1152



PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT
TS. Location Of Official Station

Washington, De Cy

| Division D
Project Annex/Project PB Jointly
Branch 2 = Section B

Th Position No. |19. Serv] 20, Occup. forles

8073.12/907 0301.26).

23, SD [24. Dare Of Grode 125. PS! Ove 26. propelation Number
jl 8-2306-23
ACTION

28. EH, Dore:

‘29. Type Of Employee
Regular

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
Code 32. Locorien OF Official Station

[31. Organizational Designations
DDS/erfice af Personnel

Fersonnel “assignment Division
Placement Branch (Clerical)
interim Assignnent Section

| Washington, D. C.

(3S. Position No. [35 Sere
1
aT. Date z 7

Ma Oe Yr | Mo 0

E- Reauest Keproved By Signature Ard Title)

Cubes

i eetfis

3. Pos. Control

S. Clessification

yes" Nsza


M applicable, obtain resignation and fill in, separation data on reverse,
5 >

REQUESTING OFFICE: Fill in items # through'12 and A through D except 6B ond 7 un'e:s otherwise inate

: Pad oate or mate i 1 meuEst e, | ry aa aa
i i
15 May 2923 £26, June. 5
on Picues t sate 17
i Pace
i “
woe Clerk- ww #su23 7) Cleric BYP-8073.12

GS-0301,26-4 $3415.00 pra,

'
A page ne ond
Persersal fostpesmnt Devteton | * ic Bester
Placement Branch (Clerical) = | \ Protect P's Joined
Interim Assignment Section | | Branch 2 iain
Washingtan, De Co | Section B
i

(ET) oermonta,

1B neo on orn

GS-0302.26-b $3115.00 peas’

Cprinctons Pe Spocvammena

‘A REMARKS (Use revorve if necessary)

Present incumbont is pending resssignzont.
hove BleeKug. Cherm Typr See

‘8 ALaoEAT wrnouto 7

bee

a 0:03

Ww LEGAL RESH

| arencenation 7 Waoncrioes

F |e 7650920

BGs | SR Smee i
Wieaema | (accassiona ony) | [CJ CLAIMED] PROVED
i

@ Aprii 1957 [stave D, Ca. |

¥-7-2306-23 Yes
TH STANDARD FORM 19 REMARKS
Hy}
avd Bian iy
BO GLARANCES ANITIAL 08 SIGNATURE ‘DATE REMARKS: r j
%

& GEIL OR ROS. CONTROL

t
“Bas | Tey RD
I

j
nt

i j ect

© CLASIFICATION
3 PACEMENT On MAL

aR ia ever



yoann 129 $¢

mst through 12 ond A ‘through D except 68 cad 7 unless othewi
ighation and fill in separation data on revers
oni ob te ‘Lacan

oe

Fa BANC o» moves

! 19-Fep 57]

1 aia actige aeovticas
A’rIabonall (Specity whether appruntment, promt

es tet
Peet

t. ny

| -50 USCA

430 J

. axecoted pp:
108 (Spocily whether oa

“chen Ba 5U23 | +
$3M15 pede

1 seamee, GuDE AnD
ater

" Biftkitiont
Placement. ranch (Clerical)
Inter

HL mespguaateas ington,

ace

(RT ocrastncre

my Aitco oR oteneruentat |

Reanest indices clearance,

| TAS (Unassigneay”

1s. | 6 APPROPRIATION |
&

he
Fw _ 1-6509=20

| 30 STAROARD FORM 10 RLMARKS

De ynacl we Lived pasrore

x

[BGC On pos ConROL |
©. GLASSIFICATION

'D PLACEMENT On cM. |

ra
FL APPR ,

He P Aaa ae
C+ 199 SY 2058 5 i
D ei
OP ae Owe, |
or tee  tlale 8 i i
Sc as



SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF CANCELLATION
OF MILITARY COVER BACKSTOP

are

18 October 1963

i. x ', PERSONNEL OPERATIONS DIVISION
Vrenets : ‘TARASOFF, Anna
For :
CHIEF, OPERATING COMPONENT ( Lea cl Forwarding Address:
7 Unknown

Suaiger

Waitt tay COVEN

G Renoks: Subject to indicate CIA as place of employment

ite, 155la

ATT

up hike HO.
signation Debriefing in Absentia K-111
Te €ano na.

DiscontinueD

Administrative Suppat Group, OSA NA

X] Unblock Records, Resignation effective 8 September 1963 in Absentia

EOD.

Effective.

Submit Farm 642 Te Change Limitation Cotogory.
NA(HB 20-£00-2 to be redesigncted HHB 20-7)

xh Rotum All Military Documentation To CCS.

for the entire period.

4

TARAS

[cor 10 eravor

wee LL ah bong —
CD7pp. cntel a6

Af 1050/05: 1-PS0/0S.

SECRET

(13.20. 499
for

7
lets ceine}
Derk 3-63



ect 10/80

Cover arrangements are in process, and/or,

€-2532 (Biladean)
5 June 1963

ratiscctions and Records Branch
ofrice of Per

Mary Coriden

Boris D.. TARASOFP f
(anne TARMBOPF =f

have
sbovesnamed

, it is requested that your
locked to deny subjects!
en external inquirer.

subjects.

SHOMAS K. STRANGE
Deputy Chief, CC8/RC

aT


SECRET

19 Octobor 1960

_ (Date )
File Ne. K-11

i
i

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, ‘Records and Services Division
as Office of Personnel

SUBJECT : Anna TARASOSF ©

1. Cover arrangements manctopremenopounyex have been com-
pleted for the above-named Subject.

2. Effective_13 October 1°60 44 te requested that your
records be properly blocked yvessawea to deny ROARS Subject's
current Agency employment to an external inquirer.

3. Operating component must take necessary action to block

wRMLAXtelephone locator by submitting the Personnel Information Card,
“Office File Copy," Form No. 642, to Machine Records Division, Office

of the Comptroller, Room 107 Curie Hall, Attention: Miss Wenkenbach.
Ed Pitsgerald,

oce, tea, This, Beporandua confires an oral request of
Patt LEN ‘ mow DES
Acting glen, Central Cover ” SSE Group
ce: ssp/os

Operating Division - CI

(asta a0

Wisp 1580 : : : : wy
re


en

a :
Go TOTAL SERVICE FOR LEAVE

—— Ee
Snare Rare ERG SST
i roe ner ans
—_— duro = Days
TENORS NATURE SEPARATION STiees Ae
: ‘|
cenarste nt See 70X61
Xk papi no LW Fen Mo or Ha
7 Sul IRY_OF ANNUAL te SICK MAE ‘SUMMARY OF WORE LEAVE id REMARNS
TOURS) ta Tas) 7 eb:
7 ee oe mac ewan ET
whe? BQL a0 |is crmecontant ———
8. et eye ed B= 3 [10 8}t0, rare ecuctrm _
wed (Lod ay, bentley ares ea
Ee 2, torts har de.
7 eam den em ed L ROL AO] 0, mend annette — im
9 Tod ro taten TANG he. count dns ews net ex! doe —
10, alone f= [ia er andi
UITARY ACAVE
Vi, ou hour paid ip tne wom =a. NER — a paces lea caneaeeye santas
1 rash oe Tica A Sb a nor mr anette yseeiaes sacra |
1

. tune wen Leone date:

Feo ee
rr)

Fo Coned cored OF

wi

22, Dang tears root
2a, Danny srncteate =

pense atch began
28, Demy UZocnth HL occrvat period (2a? ———

Tat Toad
Tay iieteakonel

an Na, nO
SAG SON
Lisi

RECORD OF LEAVE DATA TRANSFERRED



SECRET
shed Siew Pied la) . #

“MHC: 26 SEPT 63

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Titniac wvania pau (SFT aT

025935 | Tarasorr ANNA

7. MATURE OF PeasouNEi ACTION

RESIGNATION FROM LWOP aC REGULAR
TL ate Ta ae Ta Gi on ATR aL aTRGTTT

ramos | wr Coe u??7 19090 reno]

ean aaah

7 Gtconr OF EuvioTMENT

WW. LOCATION OF OFFICAL STATION

OOP Cl STAFF
CS/CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT WAS

“Tia anon waa

Te Hace OoHTONATION

Ti Fonrion

INTELLIGENCE CLERK utd o
Te, ATHAVATION SOHTOE TH, UP, we] carn SeRES LE an TW SiineT oe RATE
GS 0301.27 O65 4 SSuS,
Ve. ceManns, suinaies is a iain oe aii
: SPACE BLOW isE OF NEL
V9. ACTION] 30, Empley.| TH OFFILE CODING FE. STATION | 12. INTEGREE | 38. Ragin. 1 i Gale OF Choe TATE OF
foot | ote awe Taomnvene | (O0E «oot (oe 3. epee ee
43 [12 1S 23 er oe
FMT Ganitcy 1 Pec _ ATTEN Baa] SEPANNTION” [CORTON aETTATION Ba wan pai
| RESERN “race | ME Paes oo DATA, BE
fe : f ICBOORH eee i
1 [GE WEr prevenence 0 Stav Gur cate [37 LonG. cour, DATE: - carte cautcore | 3, FEGLI 7 HEALT TRSURARCE Ta Sociad SECURITY 9a.
pe pt t_frnow eve t i :
Wi Paeviond Cavemnntat Seavice But ave ara, Weeeaat Tar te 7 Tait mea
coon 0 C008 |rouwexecuied cook | wD ta | Foam ErncureD, cape [we Tas
nn ae | i ae
| i tank 2 ss raey pay |
ieee
SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

roRw Use Previous
iste Edition
eniaee (Ween Filed tht



SECRET
a (When Filed fn) ’

LLG: 29 JUNE 63

OCF

TV Steiat auRTE

| 925935 | TARASOFF ANNA

7 2 WAWE (LAST ATAST IDOLE)

1 WATURE OF PERSGANLE ACTION

[Le arene are

0 GTECONT oF CutGrRNT

REASSIGNMENT AND LWOP 1a30 ™ |
(NTE_11 SEPT. 1963) 06112 63: x
K [vw iat 7G GRICE BS ANTE GC OF Bint HEAL TOOT
co revo > |
we awe 3227 1320 1000] 50 USC 403 _¥

¥- ORGANITATIONAL BELIGHATIONS

ODP Cl. STAFF
CS/CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT

8 UOaTIGa OF ARI STATION

WASH, .D.C,

Wa Ponitow OME

INTELLIGENCE CLERK

Th POSTION nonbte

9997

[ad SERVICE ObiremaTiON

oO

Ta CABiTTCaTiow SEWEDGLE TS, LE, we)

7 i ciation ane —T

Te ane is ore

r aia on RATE

i SS 1.030) 27 _ 106 4 19945 i
wi
OTHER
= see RPA REL ci XLS USE Ors once GF Vensowwiex tes Te =e sereEseeert
Tae Fe taper SE aied [HR WTGGRTT [HC nope [uae wT]. BUTE GF ODE T-ONTE TT
cone oh ee « foe So nT a a
}3s_| is ! 3397] c1 1 lesos te} i t

Wy sreciat [30 RetiaTates ote

oat

Tetras ‘Gr stration { sco [se ate
revtetect para coor |; rea. no
ar ps er natal = [foo para
Lot [eee | | :
Ti wr Bae [ie Cow vine [a oa GTO TG Taree scan
Coan aCry Tie ae [OE Twin aa tout
! ee eee foi

Toten Tar ba

ta STATE Tak BATA

rn a

|

t

eae [ee ear

Use Provious

FORY 159 “Pow

ters



SECRET

ot awe riuiro nn
7 ~
reroreract pre
TO BE COMPLETED BY THE ‘OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
13. RUMARED :
oO ° a
I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE:ABOVE NAVED FMPLOTES IS
OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE. as
¥ Ned 30 ope tA
srounneg T 43 CE ie £ o,DATSt Be V. ret Pb> A
fo Br? o Roo “ao & 8 So” doa oo! :
PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION - Tine
560 GEOL FER TSETRS Tom - SECRET OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER bai
- Qnan
DL. PASTE . Malet ese siiaacat te
7 7
yg
IN ACCCORDANCE. WITHTHE : opr onnet ores ae
@ OCI MEMORANDUM DATED 1 AUGUST Loses” Sar eee Te Maus 2 AND
EFFECTIVE 14 OCTOBER 19626 * SALARY IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS»
a ‘
Nan nen o%0 ord New New
RIAL ORGN FUNDS GR=ST SALARY GR-3T SALARY
TARASOFF ANNA
025935 32250
oH ui 06 3 $ 5160 063 $ 5375
vee Pee SECRET eee
: (When Filled In)
TSoatke Te os oc ToiwoF mae ee
r 25935 | TARASOFF ANHA 22 250 v Zl
‘ ry Oo Shan ATE a Tew SALT Bate Tire eviow
é . [sine [Sip | Satery | tomb Date | Grade [Sop] Solary | Euocuve Sue | FSi | Let | ADJ.
{ } " |
; 1) oy i
nS 94 2 #02 DYICELEY v6 [2 5 QF sy porse:
a Remails 20d Authentication : — .
a
ta 7 &O FXCESS LHOP
t A Ill PAY STATUS AT Fig) QF SABTING PFREID ie
Te GHeP STATUS AT FD OF CATTES ren y
. } =



AES; _10_MAY 61

NOMF:CALION UF PLXSONNEL ACTION

SSCRET
(Wea Fed tn)

Laxe
STscean weuntt 7 MiG (NTT RT MOE
025235, | TARASOFF ANNA :
fT Tain anor

F MaToeE oF PERSCNAL ACTION

PROMOTION = CORRECTION

.

10%, 08, 61 | REGULAR

ene

«roe |

amy

i vod

awe

ear na ws NTT

| 1227 1001 1000

EEG ont Cee aoINTT

50 usc 403 4

[erent ordnaon

oor Ci STAFF

SPECIAL INVESTIGATION GROUP

ean oF BTN TATION

|
|
i

2 AND ITEM #17, SALARY,

PROJECTS BRANCH WASH., D.C.
TR TT aan ToT Tae Gee Heit TION
jl
INTELL CLERK 50151 lo
TORRENT Wwe) Tariana aes ease a TCU
cs “ 4 0301.27 (06 2 44995
1" aaa o
Tae ACTION- CORRECTS SF 1150 EFF 8 VAN 1961 ITEM #16, STEP, WHICH READ 1} TO READ

WHICH READ $4830 TO READ $4995.

ERSONNEL

nua VE USE OF THE OFFI
Fae Gane HATOW |B WHEE | HC Rn | 8,OAE is gave OF ease Gate OF ET
ma Pa a ne ae a
32250 75013 | iy 05 | 05 23/ 01; 08; 61 | 01 , 08; 61
atc Fae anni pI rae GATE RTO BR, Sr wean
ry aeseReMce Ty eoee pare RE T reer et [fer eara) j
| tea |e | f22 | or, 08, 61} |
WaT Gwe a [see GF OnE PE UL CCC.
cor =]

i

Tr)

“eave GO.
coe ee

Obsolete Previoud
Eaivions



SECRET

6 JAN & sivhea Filled tn

at (AST AT MIDLTY

TT

025935 | TARADOE ANNA
mat oF Pom ACTON

[i GnERGRT oF cancornENT

1) vd) Ol | REGULAR
7 aT TA a OaNRTANT—/  B O OTREL TE TROT

PROMOTION

ro
ard 1é27 1001 1000 50 USC 403 4

7 WO COCaTTON OF OFFICAL STATION

. vor Cl STAFF
SPECIAL INVESTIGATION GROUP !
PROJECTS SRKANCH | WASH, D.C.
TW, Position THLE ~ Reition Non 1D, CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
INTELL CLERK i 15) ti)
Ta, CLUSSiFiCATiON SOMEONE (63, #9, ee) [18 Oceurationat seus [i eesat a8 a ie Siiaay Of kate
cs 0301.27 }06 1 | 4830
ia iain saan —

G09 ar [oi nie oF DE BATE OFT
‘; (ote aa a a TY

22’; 10 | 32250 | C1 (75013 | uv [01 08, 61 | ot ; o8,6t
at Tanne. ict — AUTRE vata | enon i ic som

; taut aut cot :
ee MEME ae coor a iz [cep DATA 840. 0

EEeeleceee ! iit !
BEVEL Pat atacd_ |e. (ouP OTE [7 owe. Cota xa, (FAR wen TERN a CURT

ee | |
teva corre wie ale Teac Twa i Biaie Tar ata
wane — peavas, CoRe oo one executes eooe prot

Vee an

Form Obsolete Previous i
Form 4180 ree SECRET


4S WS
Int 1986) S4L42¥ 15 ADJUSTED Led
augict 108 :

TN ACCOR
sp NAME.
S$ TARASOFF ANNA

eur. SERIAL NO,

oS « B6-5E
RAANCE WITH THE PROVISTONS OF Peo L

SAND NET MEMO DATED

EFFECTIVE 10 JULY 19506

NEW SALARY

SERIAL ORGN  GR=ST OLD SALARY
$ 4510
125935 54.18 GS-05 2 $ 49190
: : .
s/ EMMETT De ECHOLS
DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL
ee SECRET ait
: (re FILLED 9 A

‘3._Assienea Oncan ‘& Funoe | 5, ALkorment

= WANE,
175046 TARASOFF Anna |

oy “OLD SALARY RATE z NEW SALARY RATE

AOPVCE v=2o|

eno [oe | sue z

ee |e

omos or saan | iereseey rosea
GS 0s 2 3 40510] 21 01/59 Gs 95 3 3 49675 19] 30 | 60

TO BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFICE OF COMPTROLLER

jv acess wor, xt

8 cwtce one we excees 1

Ce er een

OF HOURS Lwor

CO excess ewer

10, INITIALS OF CLERE ia a

TO SE COMPLETEO BY THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

2, Tyre oF action

Oban, OF cen: oar sevesreeee

S60 Sescsers feReaus SoTON SECRET OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER -

G2 sy

eat B

wet wh “
: 5 e °y H « L ” /
E us ° a a4 eo? i)
PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION
&

|


oe

seal

Tesianed ORSA%.
nopsct

“et ano on earrene PENOD
Fo BE COMPLETED
; rrr

a AUTHENTICATION

Te

PAY CHANGE NOT
eet SECRET

io B80

Ph

covers rmeyous.e
H ig FORM 860%

Gercacts

560

6 | |
e
S
e ™ LIEU NE ENOM 1159 THIS NOTIFICATION EFFECTS SFSLOTT
: eee ING RFSULTING
° seo # NAME so OLD stot NEW SLOT
; EW SLC DATE
@ «125925 TAGASNFF ANNA DS ae
: 15 04/28/59

8
® ® &© © © 6 6 (BB


o. SECRET
: iS

Filled tn)

i NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Yes: 1 [Code]
No-2 iy

USCA 403 v
PREVIOUS ASSI

[14. Organizational Decignabons

JOOP Cl STAFF
INVE-TIGATION CIWIS GX
ERAS

E11 FEB 1959

H.’Serial No.1, Nowe (Lasi-Fint Middle) 3. Dote OF Birth
: i Mo. | Da. | Ye.
TARASOFF ANNA 05 les 23
s ‘otat_]9. o Logel Authority [70. Avat. Alliday,

IGNMENT

15. Location Of Oficial Station

WASH, 0.C.

‘Occup: Sonos

[31. “Organizational Dengnauons Code

jOOP Cl STAFF
ferecuas INVESTIGATION DIVISION

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

32. Location OF Official Station

17. Poston Tile 78. Potton No. 19. Sore] 30.
Fron 16 {2 [INTEL CLK” 0451.05 GS 0301.27
81. Grada a Step | 28. Sclary Or Rato 123. SD ue. 26. Appropriation Nunbor
lov 2 5 5850 ds 8 2705 27
27, Nature Of Actisa Code Code! 30. Seperation Data
PROMOT 1 CN.CORRECT 10N* 30 | 11} 92; 58] REGULAR lor

Station Code

ia
a6 12 INTEL CLK

ROJECTS BRANCH 18___IWASH., 0.C. 501
33. Dest -Fioid [34 Posuan Tale a Ste Te Pasion No 95 San [ST Oae Ss

0151.05 Ics

_0301.27

pS Grode a Stop 39. Salary Cr Kate

40. D 41, Date Of Grado | 48. PSI Due
‘Mo. Oe. Mo. Da. Yr,
Ds Lige 16 ti tort

|43. Appropriation Nunber

2700 27 001

"SPECIAL INVESTIGATION DIVISION,"

er BO SV [go

ORRECTS’ SF 1150 EFF 2°NOV 1956 ITEM FTA AND 31 SECOND UJNE_OF
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS WHICH READ "SPECIAL PROJECTS Div", TO READ



SECPET
ad Qvhen Filled tn)

Mo. | Da.

05, os [23

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT
75. Location Of Oficial Station

ISPECIAL PROJECTS DIV
[PROJECTS BRANCH

5412" |WASH., 0. C. 75013

[is ie Porton Tile 18. Position No ii Sere [ #0. Occup. Series
| wren LK 0151.05 {6s 0301.27
2. Gana 2. Salary Or Rate | 23. SD [34 Date Of Grade i85. PSI Duo, Numb

os

ACTION

‘Code [88. EH. Dote 29. Type Of Employee ‘30 Separation Dato
Ma Do Yr
30 | 114-02) 58] REGULAR
PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
[31. Organizaticne! Designations: j Code 32. Location OF Oltticiol Station ‘Sration Code
loop ct STAFF
SPECIAL PROJECTS DIV
PROJECTS BRANCH Shi2___ Iwas.) 0.C. ates
[33. Doce. Position Title '35. Position Ne. ae 1 Series
3
Fra: $e inten cox 6151.05 0301.27
33. TESTED ‘Selary Or Rare [ 40. SD [4t. Data Of Grada | 42. PSE D 43. Appropriction Nunber
I, | Ma Da. Yr. [Mo Oc.
051 1° doko. BS. 102 8 lay 159 2700 87 001

Tie WI 7



ro
“ , :
S
oe Se rae er
. a
: eM STtRNLE etLamy pucsener sermnserIVELY erecerqye | -
10 2 -
PSR AUTHORIZED RY OL Ly an ~ 462 AD XCE
a Preretrur, eapas anni :
TYE, SAL Atw AF 18 JUNE pasa angusren 24 eALL Awe oy
a : q : :
1Ave SOOTAL CPADE-STED OLD SALAOY new eataey 7
@ TAPASOFF ANNA 125935 6S-04-2 3 34500 $39350 0 4
© Gapnnt:
TSP DIRECTOR cal
@ =
SECRET fe

ASSIGNED ORGAN,

Tron

Tatar, semiAt NO,

125935
OLB SALARY RATE

+3 C/ v-20

NEW SALARY RATR

an erecetive pate

Last erreer

Gs 4

2 Is 39590

OFFICE

jOLCER

9. CHECK ONE
EXCESS LEAVE LWOP, CHECK FOLLOWING:

‘3. wunten oF

[ie rnscs oF cask” [rr awaits ov
ey

‘TO BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

(TE AND EFFECTIVE OATE

co oA,

13, REWARKS

Tas AUTHENTICATION

ord

1 tue SERIAL RO.

125935 TARASOFF ANNA-

e OLD SALARY RATE

Last EFrceTivE DATE.

sauaay
J

noe |

ster saLany

Gs 4 $ 39415) 04

57

gs 4]

2 |s 34500

corer

_ CERTIFICATION

UCERTIFY THAT THE SeRVICT

AND CONDUCT OF THE ASOVE NAMED &

MMPLOXEE ARE SATISFACTORY,

a

vi


MCM 7 MAR 58

SECRET ‘
hea Filled In) A

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. Serial No.
os
ob ele |

14, Organizational Derignanons

PERSONNEL ASSIGNMENT OI
PLACEMENT BR CLERICAL

2. Name (LasFirtMaddle)
TARASOFF_ANNA

OOS OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

Ese OEE Var Prades

05 |o5 [23 [Rilo |r 2

ay [ses

23 Lone
T Authority [70. Anat, Attigav. 17, FEGU [te TOD
¥er-t/Cede| Mo. 7 Da.

No-a|

al ha AG we] Be

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT
15. Location OF Official Station

‘Station Code

v

15013

INTERIM ASSIGNMENT SECT
i. Dept. Field J
piu [SI

eqn <8 CLERK

T_T 17. Verwan Vile

1 [WASH., OC.
233) 2 TSR TIT Creag: Sores

ae orteon Wo.
E 0301.26 |

12. Grado & Step [22. Salary Or Rate [33 SD

oh 5 5 i)

wear Pst Dew 78S Appreprioticn Nunbor

OF 1 08 it los 120 158 8 6509 20

REASS | GNMENT

[31. Organizational Designations

lODP Ct STAFF
ISPECIAL PROJECTS O1V

ACTION
89. Type Cf Eeployeo

=a

03! 09; 58) REGULAR

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
Code 38. Useation GF Ollaisl Seotion

(Cody 30. Separation Dota

t ol

TBistion Coda]

5ai2__iWASH., D. C.

I]
sarees a]

INTEL CLK

35. Position Nov

0151.05 Ics. | 0301.27

s

38. Grace & Stop | 39. Salary Or Rate 42. SD

[it Date OlGrode [4 PSI Da
MaDe. ve {Mo. Do. Yr,
08 108 1

43. Appropriation Nusbor

(akes? M500 BK E/E @


\ = SECRET eae :
at Filled In) + ceani pana

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

ARE:24 YAN. 1958,
f. Serial No ]2- ‘Name (Lost-fint-Middle)
\

Sar TESTED
‘Mo. | Do. | Yr
F2 1a [8 [5h

0
ai. ecu eee 73.

2093 — Hes

Mo] Oa | Yr [Yas 1 [ode]
04 108 No +

Or Other Legal Authority
Tho. | Da. | Ye. [vert |Code| Mo. | Da. | Yr. | Yor. 3
| 08 | 08 | 57 [No-?

75. Location Ol Oficial Station

74, Organizational Derignations
pop FI STAFF

‘Station Code

WASH,, D. Co

78. Poution No- me cone

8073.12/907_| 6S : 0301.26
cada] 25, Pal Die __]86. Appropriation Nunbor
7 Ye
| i a 8 2306 23
ACTION

]29. Type Of Employee Cole] 30. Separation Dato

ea, Bate OIG
Me. Do.

vt

37, Nature OF Action

o1

REASSIGNMENT

‘Siation Code,

FF, Organizational Designations
DOS OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
PERSONNEL ‘ASSIGNMENT O1V
PLACEMENT BR CLERICAL ©
INTERIM ASSIGHMENT SECT
iald [34 Position Title

JUsiid - 4 a
ents 12 | CLERK

38. Grade & Step |39. Salary Or Rate
hy

40,

vo.

we


srayoans man a } *
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE pe

‘9 suyvice, seams,
ee at

2a otcayizeoNat,
DeSHcNATIONS,

419963

2 weapeuantens

2 ane
Rnnpoeoure i

Ta FOCITION CLATSIETCANION ACTION

Te, CGAL RESIDENCE
Cy eianmco (C] pxoveo

STATE:

tarmact pronase Mati vo,
i : Be
pirvetar of Parcomsis??'s $88. on”

4, PERSONNEL FOLDER COPY =~ fF U6, covesnuany painring OFvices seue-s7ee7

Vid Wop



a
bs

Pic. 19 Ker 1957

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION 72 14

Vite meee terratcehs awd Wuanawey

Mis, ADA TAU SEP 123535

Clerk
G@S-0301.26-b $3415.00 per annua

Fereonnel Assignment Diviaicn
beeritedinnd Pleoexont Bronob (Clerieai)
a Interdn avatgment Bec
29399 if

Washington, D.C.
2
noo 7A OEPARTMENTAL 12, inno on cern fo] nee 1 Resend

1s. arraoraiation 17 SuoaeCE TS gt | 18 BATE OF arraver. | 19. aFCAL WesIOENeE

q
went afrioavits "| uaiweo [-] paoveo

1-6509-20 | sae:
5 BOD 04/08/57

Biyaed cs ts as latewesey eg ntioe af al sete pacled ce gue genes
Subjeot to the aatisfestery eamplotion of s medical cxmination

‘

DOG: 04/00/57
eaxap: 04/08/57
tops onfolat
ECD: 04/06, at

FEI duo; 04/20/58

ATAANGE PEATOMMANCE MATING: : 00a 99 goes gv, oye
boiameae ge GP SP? Fn § o%Mo Wu

See oa og Rg WERTICRTIOW

2,
"o
So 2 00!

SONNEL FOLDER COPY

3 MWU27

Sow USES

8 v8 covenmuens ranurins orrice: t9e-sraee7


fee SECRET

Cates Fitted: to)

feupcovee SERIAL NUMBER

\
FITNESS REPORT ° 25935

_ GENERAL _
(Fivaid ‘iidtioy [2 DATE
ANA [5 Moy 1923

: 7 OFF Gwen OF AgsIONWENT [sr CURRENT STATION

DDP CI STAFF/SIG/PKO HEADQUARTERS

EneeK IX) TYPE OF REPORT

auaavianuenT suPERVIaOR|
aad agaaaioNuEMT EWOLOTEE
| teecinn tanec: Torre a
12: RepORTING PERIOD (Fron to)
1 July 1962 = 30 June 1963
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION —
‘thon satiafoc

[eewronany
ion CD

ieiviae

“x

Yatecrac iets

TirOATE REPORT DUE IN O.P,

31 July 1963

SECTIONS

‘A tating In thia category requir

Ww Wook ranges trom wholly Incdequate ity te.
~The he a 1d range from coun Vurther taining, to placing
i jparetion. Describe action token ot proposed In Section C.
A+ Adequate quirements. It fe entirely sotlsfoctory and Is choractorlaed nalther by defictency ner
P= Prolicient Performence bs moto then.settslactory, Desired results are belng produced In a proficient manners
8+ Strong Pirformonce 1s characterized by exceptional profictency.

0 = Outstanding Performance 1s 40 exceptions In relation to requirements of the work ond In comporiton 10 the performonce of
others doing similar work as te warrant special recognition. :

SPECIFIC DUT

List Up to sia af the most Importont specific duties performed during the rot
Jrranner in ‘employee performs EACH: iflc duty. Consider ONI
with supervisory responsibilities MUST be roted on thelr ability to

Es

¢ which best describes the
All employ:

IFIE DUTY NO.

Transliterates Russian mterial — P

sPEeirIC DUTY NO. # RATING
terrier

Chocks Project material which ontails transliterating from the Cyrillic Pp

RATING.

sPEciPIE DUTY NOs

Takes over some supervisory duties during supervisor's absence

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. &

Operates Xerox machine

SPecinic OUTY NO. 8

Guides others in Project learning Russian transliteration

SPECIFIC DUTY HO. ©

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

which influences his affectiveness In his current posi
formence of Kntes, productivity, conduct op job, cooperativensss, pertn
seNeGer limiterions or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overo|

ploce the letter in feos box corresponding to the state:

2

RATING
derree

A



SECRET

(then Fitted ta)

SECTION C

position ke
sat of work per forms
ition. Amplify or o:

‘Monagr of performance of manager

: : AN ap
OD
Subjoct's Russian transliteration vork is noat and aocurata. This
work ao. haa beon‘ablo to do without otrony suport of ths office.

Reountly chia hos asaisted sora of tho new Project omployees in
Learning Pusgian transi ‘teration, hie

Sho bos takon over in an socoptable sannor som of the supcrviecry
duties during the absense ef tho supcrviscr.

‘SECTION O CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS:

i" BY EMPLOYEE

T CERTIFY TiiAT 1 WAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 6, ANO€ OF THis REPORT

signa’

Es

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAD BEEN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
UNDER MY SUPERVISION

TYEEG/ OW PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

A BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

[EGMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OF FICIAL [eee OA PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

SECRET

~ se!


oA : + SECRET iv

(ance Filled To)
fEMPLOVEE SERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS REPORT
2 = 5935.
GENERAL
(Fie TMiadte) 2, OATE OF BIRTH iz vex fs. oRADE [8 3D
TARASC ‘Anna 3 May 1923, D
Sorncan PouTion TITLE Soop oiviea OF AbsIONWENT 7 STATION
INTELLIGENCE _CLERK. ppp/cl sia/Prod__1
Teneeu tn) FvPELOF APPOINTMENT : To. eneen lx TPE OF REPORT
cance | [RESERVE TEMPORARY INITIAL = REassionnen® SUPERVISOR]
srowac (See instnutione » Section €) Paco acaverenuanet euPLovee

CAREER ORO

‘seuciae (Specityy:
Tao REPORTING PERIOD (From- (0)

[apeeran eect 7 ;
TOATE REPORT OUE IN O.Ps

We Wook Porlormince ranges from wholly Inadeavote to slightly le yA foting In this category requires
nae from ett cack the action could range from counseling, 16 further taining, to placing on

cignment of to seperation. Describe action token or proposed In Sect

As Adgsiate Perlermonco masts all requirements: tie

“formance 1s more thon satlafactory. Desired results are being produced in 9 proficient manners

Parformence ta characterized by exceptional proficiency. =m > ==

Pacfecmares ts'ee exceptional in relotion to requirements of the work ond in comparison 10 tho porformance of

eiare doing similar werk as to worrant special recognition:

SPECIFIC DUTIES.

‘entirely satisfactory ond is choracterixed nolthor by deficiency nor

ating letter which best dascribes the
mance of thet duty. All empleyees

List up to six ef the moat important specific duties perfor
WWurfarms EACH specific duty.
sryiinige MUST bo fered on thotr ability to supervise (ind

Transliterates Russian material.

SPECIFIC DUTY NOE

Operates Verifax machine.

SPECIFIC BUTT NOS 7 RATING
terren

Checks Project material which entails transliterating from the Cyrillic.| A

¥ wore a RATING,
Pecinie BUT at

: Takes over sone Supervisory duties during absenco of Supervisor. A-
speciFic DUTY ROS ete EE eareen

SPECIFIC OUTY NO.

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

obout the employee which Influences his offactive:
formance of specific duti productivity, conduct on cooperative
formants, Riainevions or talents, Based on your know!

sloce the letter in the soting box corresponding to the stotement which most aceuratel

‘Toke Into aceeunt everythi

192" 45 cosovere previous eoirions.


SECRET iui

. (tien Felted tek,
SECTION C E NARRATIVE COMMENTS

findicare vignilicont strengths or wesknesves demonstrat
Loar!" perloumgnce. State suggestions made for Improv
‘on foreign longuage competence, if'requited for current position. Amplity or
eet ustecmining future personnal action. Monner of performance of managerial of sve:
applicable,

ng in proper oot

fe recommendations for train

Hing’ given in Section B to pr
fitory duties must be dei

i

Subject does her job without strong support of the office
and her transliteration work is neat and accurate. Sho
has taken over some of the supervisory duties during the
absence of the supervisor in a satisfactory manner.

SECTION D CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
SHEE BC EMELOYEE ae
“TEERTIFY THAT | HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, ANO'C OF THIS REPORT.
[aiewatune or eNPLovee

b One 1
BY SUPERVISO
ce Taid REPOAY Wad HOT BEEN Shown TD EUPLOVER, GIVE EXPLANATION

Unde MY SUPER vial

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

3.
COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL,

(geen

Ewing OFFICIAL [TVPEO OR PRINTED. NAME AND SIGNATURE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF A

SECRET


SECRET

(when Filled¥).

TuPLOTEE SURIAL NUMBER

,
ra FITNESS REPORT 125935
SECTION A GENE! SuRraae z
Tewawe” ia Ttieay aoy aaex wWenaoe
TARASOFF__Anna [5 MAY 1923 F t GS-6 _
D |_ INTELLIGENCE CLERK DDP/GI/SIG PRO.
a . o 7 qaew oF heront

me EMPLOYER

cor K [eon
Bay ING PERIOD aa “specian (Spectty)
30 JUNE.60 - 30 JUNE 61

JN_OF PERFORMANCE 0

F SPECIFIC OI

important specific dutl

List ve
ipartorma EACH specific

manner in which employ:
ith superviaery responsibil

getored dun

(UST be roted on thelr obility to

ty. Consider

imber which boat di
rol thot duty. All employ’

leupervioed).

T= Unsatisfactory, J. Barely edeqvate [3 - Accept

[s- Excellent

T= Ovtatonding

SPECIPIE OUTY NO.t

TransLiterates Russian vaterial.

magia [SPECIFIC OUTY HO: 4

4 Yakos name checks.

speciric OurY NO.®

Operates Verifax machine.

Wayne [arecimie oUrY wo.>

[speciric DUTY NO.?

Takes over som supervisory duties
during absence of Supervisor.

3

Barina [SPECIFIC OUTY NO. 6
Woe

SECTION C

TION OF OVERALL PERFORMANC!

which Influences his effectiven

rtinont personol rai

1. Pertormance in many i
2
3:
H y 2
ry important cope
3 2

Vs outstandi

SECTION D.

57 Outstanding dogree

CHARACTERISTICS

RATING

GETE FHINGS CONE,

RESOURCEFUL
ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITIES,

Taw MAKE OECISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES.

rac

wmives EFFECTIVELY,

SECURITY COMSCIONS

THinks €LEARUY

SIScIPLINE In ORIGINATING, MAINTAINING AND 01370!

"sind OF RECORDS

‘OTHER (apecitve

FORM AS opior ere PREVIOUS EDITIONS,

SER SECTION “E* OV REVERSE SIDE”

SECRET

w


SECRET Abeta bY

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF 308 PEREDYANGE
Insigoe sensei gat Som oe ented eber goer vee

prope
eee ie SECTIONS B, ©, and O to provide the best basis for determining

Tee personnel ctl
ne pectonnel actions,
is Man ROOM

No further comments to be added to previous reports.

SECTION F = CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
aL i) ‘7
Leertily that | have seen Se: A, B,C, D and E of this Report.

ns A, B,C. §

1a. Gedy 11 | Oens) pana

iy Pris REPORT WAS NOT BI ‘EWPLOVEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS SEEN
UROER MY suPenvision

apps 2 months

IT WEPORT 1 NOW BEING MADE AT THIS TARE, GIVE REASON,

Foam WiTHIN CAST OS GANS,

[up LOvEC UNDER My SUPERVISION LESS Thay a DAY?

Jormen (spectiyi:

DATE OFFICIAL TITLE oF SUPERVISOR TEYPED OR PRINTED NAME ANS HOWATURE
|

12 July 1962 Intelligencs Assistant
3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
TEOULO WAVE O1vEN THIS EHPLOVEE ABOUT ThE SAME EVACUATION,
 GeULe WAVE GIVEN THis EMPLOYEE A Wines EVALUATION

TP BOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOVEE A LOBE EVALUATION: azn
eee USae TuEbE EVACUATIONS, VU NOT SUFFICIENT OY Peamciee wiTW THE EMPLOYEES PENT SR¥ANS:

Comments OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

OPPICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL | FT PEO OR PRINTED AME ANG MSNATURE

' H Tak. C) S
Chief, CI-Project -K- CX

7 SECRET



2. OATE OF ” Of i}
_ [sais | FP Geststs

[ieiete Gr ASSIGNMENT 7

ppp/cl_STARF/SIG/ 5

i Trea OF REPORT
mor exten oarenneo Cun RE AIH ONMENT/SUPERVITOR i
oor ora cassranmant/EMPcove ‘

Penome
SPECIAL (apeettD

« the rating period.
ONLY effective
Sibivite {inicere member of entero

1. Unsetisfactory [2= Borely odeqvate pioble [4- Competent $= Excellent [6 = Superior [i= Ovteronding

sPeciric OUTY NO. ¥ SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4 Razno

Transliterates Russian material. Makes nase checkse > j

BUTW NO? warina [SPECIFIC DUTY NO. ©

sree Ars!

Operates Yerifax rachino. 5

specipic OUTY NO. > maryno [sPECIFIE DUTY NO. «

Takes ever some suyervisory duties
during absence of Swervicor. 3

SECTION C EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

pout the employee which influences his effectiveness in hia curror
job, cooper pertinent persanal troits or hobits, porticu!
{jettermacce during the rating period, place the rating number In th
Tleers his tevel of performance.

important respects f
yments but 1 Important respects.

DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE
Jn the roting beses below, chock (X) 10 which eoch charact
Tr Lean porvible degree [2 - Limited de [i Nermol degree [4 - Above @

CHARACTERISTICS

GETS THINGS CONE
mesourceruc

ACCEPTS RESPONSIOILITIES

GAN MARE DECISIONS OW HIS OWN SHEN NEED ARISES
DOES nis 300 ert HOUT STRONG SUPPORT

FACILITATES HRQOTH OPERATION OF MIS OFFICE

SecumTy conscious

THINKS ELEARCT
DiciPLINE iW ORDINATING, HAINTAINING ANG DISPOSING OF RECORDS

OTHER (arene

SEE SECTION °F ON REVERSE SIDE

MAS sasovere ome viour eoirions. SECRET



&e,
EGRET, ite
NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JO8 PER

ed in current position. Inflate seas
ke Wayne aks
ings given tm SECTION

Spon eibil
(ature personnel ection.

EH . May
No further cements to be added to previous reset Oy

SECTION F CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS. ac
mn “BY EMPLOYEE =

Teettily that Thave seen Settions A, B, C, 0 ond E of this Report.
ry SIOWATURE OF EMPLOYER

a,
‘12 April 1961 MA ORAS
2 BY SUPERVISOR

SORTER EDAGNAiangg AEE™ © [iv Pre REPORT vd NOT DEEN sroWn TO GuPLOVE, Give EXPLANATION

App. years

(F REPORT 15 NOT @EING WADE AT THIS Vise, GIVE REASON.

aio UEaS Teen 00 OAV? i

Jeuriovee unoce wy aun [aeegat waoe mifnin avy 00 onve

lornun (aeselyy i
are OPPICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR ig DOR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
3
12 April 1962 Intelligence Assistant |
3. EVIEWING OFFICIAL HH _
Sf [wou wave civew vod Gur Lovee ABGUT THE stwe EVALUATION.

[VwOUL HAVE GivEW THIS EMPLOYEE A HIONE® EVALUATION.

ULO WAVE GivEN THis EUPLOVEE A LOWER EW oN
THNOT JUDGE THESE EVALUATIONS, 1AM NOT SUFFICIENTLY FAMILIAR WITH THE EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE.

‘COUMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DATE : GPFICIAL [TYPED OW PRINTED WAME AND SIGNATURE
i

}p2Ows GI] chter, cI-Project \
SECRET

Torricial WiFLE OF REVIERING



rt SECRET
(When Fitted br,

FITNESS REPORT

fr.
Z

TuPLoveT SERIAL

Wontion Titce

GENERAL
Thiet (uiaaiay 2. oat ar orate 3 sex
Anna. 5 Kay_1923. Hess) Susesauaes
° i orr7ow

Dor/cI/sID-Project

i om OF REPORT

REPORTING PERIOD

SECTION B

[List up to ain of the most important specific dutie;
manner In which employ forme EACH specitic duty
with supervisory reapendl "MUST be roted on thelr ability to

ANCE OF SPECIFIC.

ing the re.0g peiod. Insert soting number
ONLY atlectecengse in performance of
Superrivg ‘engicera manner ol employer

which best describes the
at duty. All employees
upervieed.

T= Unsatiatoctory.

[BvAecoptotle [as Conzwtent

32 Excellent [6 Superior [7 - Ovtstonding.

spaciric DUTY NO! Transliterates Russian | "no,

wate |sracinus out7 mo4 Chocks translitarss2on [*Azne

‘wo
Operates Verifax machine. «

5
1.

material. worry of otzer Junior Analysts.
7 u 4
Beecirie ouTY HOt aagine loreeivie DUTY wo. ® image

Chests 2ile List.

4

Grecivig burY NO? Talos over Gore
Supervisery duties during
absence of Suservisor. 3

eIFiG DUTY we @
7 won

or

SECTION C

EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Jccount everything about the emptoyee which Ir
duties, productivity, eunduc!, on job, coo

your knowledge of empl :
Uotement-which most occuretely

ion « performance of specific
jons of talents. Based on
t corresponding to the

Betlormance in mony important reapects foil
moa! a but

iy

mance clearly gxceeds basic requi

3. Performance in every Inpartont respect is superior,

5 Pestormance In avary respect 1a outstonding,

meat sqrcenects.
\delicient ia eee of move importont respects.

SECTION D-
Ta the raring

degree

__[E= Outstanding degree

aris

GETS THINGS DONE.

RESOURCEPUL

ACCEPTS RESPON!
CAN MAKE OECISIOND ON HIS OWN HNEN NEEO ARISES

ont

FACILIVATES AMOOTH OPERATION OF MIS OF FICE

he

WRITES EFFECTIVELY,

CURITY CONSCIOUS,

KS CLEARLY

he ihe

Ind, MAINTAINING AND OISPOSING OF RECORDS

DISCIPLINE IN ORIOINI

SECRET

For
tae 45 casovere encvious corrions,

SEE SECTION *F* ON REVERSE SIDE.

w



SECRET
when Billed tay
MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE _
ployes for Improvement of bie
sorgiak for 5 vont red for assem v=
Fae sens Ose provide me vest Te earerad cmp

Teemnibitiness
USoa fetermal oe
dous worker and willingly carries out all of

This exployve is a conseient: ‘
th of tim. ier transliteration work

hor agsignrents within a reasonsble lenc
fe sccurate ani fairly productive,

this omployes has taken over som oF

During tho absence of the Swporviser,
fouever, it is tolieved that

tho eworvisory dutios in an azcoptablo rannore
she roquires more: training in this field.

‘This ‘orployoo is scheduled to take tho Agency Paste Supervision course on
2 vay 1960.

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
_BY EMPLOYEE

Teentify that [have seen Sections A, B,C, D and E of this Report.
sionAzune OF EHPLOYES,

*
cours n yd
BY SUPERVISOR
Gp Fad SEV AT Wad NOT BEEN SuOeH TO EMPLOVER, GIVE E

25 April 1960

RPLANATION

Out es EUPCOVEE AS BEEN
URIER LY Sueemvision

Aggreximately 2 years

JE AT THIS TIME, GIVE REASON.

F REPORT 18 NOT SEING MAD! a
[aeronr maod wirnin CAsy 90 ony

we Leas THan #0 ava

TTewe Lovee UNDER MY SUPER:

[atnen (rece
OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Intelligence Assistant

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

WAVE OVEN THIS EMPLOVEE ABOUT THE SAM. EVALUA
Wis EMPLOVEE A MIGHE® EVALUATION:

Preset,
Tr wOUCO NAVE GIVEN Fi
TreocUD Wave OIVEN THis CMPLOYE
TT EANNOT JUOOE THESE EVALUATIONS. | AM NOT SUI

EA LOWER EVALUATION:
FTICIENT LY FAMILIAR WITH THE EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCES

[eomwants oF aeviewing oF riciAL

TSPFRIAC TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL [TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

25 April 1960 | Chte?, CI-Project
SECRET

bate

3

Sy? Wee oD, canta


\ toes iia SECRET, fee? us

(rhen Filled im)

Tur COVER SERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS REPORT 125935

\ SECTION A —
hae {Lawn (tran) ~ (Middte)
TARASOFF, Anna
STRAVIEW BistamaTiOn] os oF PiciaL, PORTION TTLE
SD/DS | Theetige ce Clerk
Camden stare sratus
wawoe eerenae.

tH a sex far omane

23 F GS-05
7 Toor F/0IV OR OF ASSIGNMENT

DDP/CI/SID - Projects

wee OF REPORT

Pewome: DeecneD panteo
TELDATE RUPORT CUE IN O.P, [LIRRPORTING PERIOD yy

30 Aprit:1959_._|'22 Oct 58 thru-Apr 5?

[araciat (Specity)

ICE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES
sting number which best describes the
mance of that duty. All employes

Supervisory 1

Ts Unsatisfactory [z= Berely edequate [3 - Acceptable 4 - Comsetent ]7_= Outstondi

[srecinie ourY NO. agin [SPECIFIC OUTY NO. mags
Checks transliteration material of
Junior Analystse

fapecinic GUTY NOE wayina [speciFic OUT NO. 8 oon
Nor xo

Transliterates Russian materiel into
English.

sPacivic DUTY NO. > imagjno [ppeciric OUTY HO.

4
OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

josition - parformonce of scecitie
ed on

ntluences his effectiveness

‘nent oat tonal tealte of hel

jar Fo ms ing period, place the
hie level of pertormance,

quirements.
‘intone or more Lmpertant respects,

SECTION D DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE -
In the roting boxes check (X) the dege cteristic applies to the employee,

ible degren 2: Limited ‘J. Normal degree 14 = Abi y [5 = Outstanding degree

CHARACTERISTICS Fy
z zat

Rating

Gets Franas DONE

RESOURCEFUL .

ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITIES

TAN MAKE DECISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEEO ARISES
DOES Nis JOB WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT
FACILITATES SHOOTH OPERATION OF MIS OFFICE

WAITED EFFECTIVELY
SecuRiTY CONSCIOUS

THINKS CLEARLY,
DISCIPLINE IN ORIGINATING, HAINTAINING ANO DISPOSING OF RECORDS

‘OTHER (Spectin:

SEE SECTION °E* OV REVERSE SIDE

$98" 45 cosovere enevious eorrions. SECRET


* [ SECRET

(when Filled tn)
ANNFR OF JOB PERF

‘apptonti

igiven tn SECTIONS B, C, end D1

This. p is a steady, diligent, ‘and ‘consciéntious workers Her transliteration
work ‘is: accurate and productive. She-has a native language ability in Russian ‘which
(WO Gefinite aid ia’her transliteration work.

gh. this exployee's work is productive, her rate of production generally remains
‘fixed level, with no substantial increase or ‘decrease, This is probably dae to
7 fact that there are no-other girls with whos she can compete because of other
-uiduties being assigned to-then, or this ‘employee may be ‘of a non-competitive types

"nis euployee, although she does not. eet ‘the Agency qualifications in typings has
taken the Agency's Refresher Course in Typings However, this course w
advanced for her and ‘she will probably require additional ‘training and more practice

Pefore she can becone, a qualified typiste
Baployee's. jusband is employed within the Agency in the Foreign Documents Division.

Tt ie believed that this exployee has first line supervisory potential insofar a9
ther ability to get along with people and.her unwavering. Ynterest in her work are
concerned. However, she will require. the necessary training along this line before
she would be capsble of undertaking such supervisory dutiese

FEEIaRcaaes i ‘BY EMPLOYEE zi
T ciavify thor Theva seen Sections A, B, C, D ond E of this Report.
SJENATURE OF EMPLOYEE

Loss

BY SUPERVISOR
Zu sown 10 EMPLOVEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

2
SSSaaw EMPLOVEENAS BEEN [IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT oe
UNDER Mv SUPERVISION

- 10 .

I WEPORT 15 NOT BEING FADE AY THIS TIME, GIVE REASON:
[aceon wabe witnin CAST 00 DAVE

Teas Covad ONDER my RUPERVINION CEES THAN #0 OAYS

Jormen (spectir):
DPFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TaFuS GA PAINTERNAME_AND BIGNATURE—>

9 April 1959 Intelligence Assistant {

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
wSOuLS Wave GiveW THiS EMPLOYER AOOUT THE SAME EVALUATION.
Tnis EMPLOYEE A HIGHER EVALUATION:

{reouLo HAVE oven
TrwaULe HAVE GIVEN Twis EwP.OvEE # LONER EVALUATION.
LeanwoT u0G# THESE EVALUATIONS. | AM NOT se ENTLY PamiLian With THE EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE. i

ToUMENTS OF REVIERING OFFICIAL

FEFEO On PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

7. KX. Chalmers —{7\C\uS :

oate SEFIGIAL THLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
9 April 1959 Chief, Cl-Project
SECRET



SECRET

esen FeUled Tad

a
FITNESS REPORT (Part 1) PERFORMANCE
iz TRSTRUCTIONS

Git current anstrustions

aq this Feport
evaluation of your subs
yo

Foe TE APINTSTRATIVE OFFICER: Com
FOR TIE SUTERVISDR: This ‘ceport ie designed to Bel yo FXareRS
Seer te your aupervisor and acnior affyceale. 0!

te shere he stends with you. Compl: fe report. can held you
feagths and weoknesses. | Bt by abs oelicy that you show Part Los this
ions specified in Reaul ere Tecommenied that you read the enti
Ghy qusstion—it-thia is the init oho tamfoyers it mut be completed and for
Freee ee panes. than 30 deys after the date init By of Section “A” below.

Seavice DESIGNATION

DS

ate “Ta se
5/9/23, hE SDs
_IntelClk. ee
1978-22. octoper 2958___
tissu atererr rs)
con ~_|_|Possible promotion
CERTIFICATION
area ERD was CET was Sor ee 3 ot

“(iawn (hat)
Anna

__Tarasoff_.
‘Tvigion/ RANCH OF ASSHONMENT

Dpp/cl .Staft/SID_Proje..

‘Oate REPORT DUL IN OF

STATEMtN Ts

cet re wre wa core BETNCw

a tare BATE OS Ese SIRATUME GF SUPERVISOR]. SUPCNESTE'S Frieiay TiTe

21 October 1958 pe "|| Intelligence Asste

SERGE weg LSAG SHETENAL) ECONO ANY SUBETINTTAE DUTTON RCE pa PIWTON Bite THe UPEAVISON, OF ww OTHER IN
FSB TR REA ERTS OFESEEES to! a SETTER UNDERSTANDING OF TH1S REPORT”

tas bare Re Te aa ee i Se er atwitwine aT eT
on Ootober 1958 | rrrerts Hebe Chalners 7 CRS | Chief, C/I Project

SECTION €._ JOB PERFORMANCE € See

EL a Tasenn peafonansee 9F

DIRECTIONS: Consider ONLY the prod
cuties during the cating pesiol. Comps
ite factors other than productavity salt be taken tio 65s

Tccreity thot any substantial difterenc

Jagat being Fated has performed
failor level of feapon-

clivctivencas wit

y
7 hue CNLY sith others doin
dune Inter in Section Dy

pots wot renronw OutitS AUCOUATELY, ME IS INCOMPETENT:
12 DOES SOE TeMtOnM OHTA Sotances acimovOe ME WAS MAD SPECI IE GHI08
ty | 10 eitae oct Resronstenceree

© Catan” out SEsrons)OUksTUt eS a ccqsraniys ecaniowabey REWEALS 3046 AEA OF CESSNEIE:

Seerores ouTecs Im A COMPETENT. CFFLCTIVE MANNER. . :
1 REE EeS a eSncts camerEs ou? wavy OF mis 4CSPONEIRIELTIES excer Tromauey aetgays
«TINE TERT Oe nce Ga Suce aN OUTSTANDING wamnem THAT WE 1S COUALLED Sr rea StubM PERSONS ANORY TO

Tee SUPERVISOR.

eon TARINING, HE OFTEN FAILS TO

Tete yg (Parti) srisms aio ws wes SECRET.
REI

vows
ARE OBSOLETE.

ta

i
d
4



\ SECRET :

(anew Filtct tay

= Phieg
fee performed 2h Begg

tating period.

TE a iledcta din else
aietrtt atma int tne peers utente na
Shiau pede decent REO afah el Tm

For supervisors, ability

who supervé eeretery only).

Compare Thea possile, the individual being rated vith others of

ine tevel of reaponaibility.

Fre, intividoeta sith the gare jot shtte may be performing different dot way

luties.

Be specific. Franples of the
ORAL: ARIEFING

the anae duty ete)

non different

igs thet might be rated ar
HAS AND USES AREA KNOWLEDGE contthys rirenmcarions
GIVING LECTURES. DEVELOPS NEY PROGRANS: PREPARES SUWUARIES.
CONEUCTING SEVINARS ANALYZES INDUSTRIAL REPORTS TRANSLATES. GERWAN
SRITING TECHNICAL REPORTS WAVAGES FILES DEnRIFPING SOUECES
KEEPS BOOKS

CONEUCTING EXTERNAL LIAISON OPERATES RADIO
TRING COORDINATES HLTH OTWER OFFICES DRIVES TaUCK

TAKING DICTATION RITES REGULATIONS MAINTAINS AIR CONDI TIONING
SUPERVISING * PREPARES CORRESPONDENCE RYALUATRS SIGNIFICANCE OF DATA

sone jobs, dutien may he Broken down even further if supervisor considers it advisalle, e-., combined key
phone operation, ia the case of @ radio operator

et of

7 tMcOuPETENT tw THe "ERFORWANCE OF Twt3 OUTY PEnFomMS TuiS DUTY Iw AW OUISTANOING wauNED
2S BARELY ADEQUATE Gx TNE PERTOMWANCE OF THIS FOUND IW VARY FLe GNOIVIDUALS MOLUING:SIMK~
loescererive curv LAR 2005
RATING 3. PERFoRUS THs ouny ACCY TARLY, ERCELS ANYONE # XnO# IN THE BCRFORWANCE OF
suoeR 2. pearomas THis BUM IN e COMPETENT Manure 13 buty z
Ss erRromes THES. TN Suc Aint anc
Tarn :

* Pransiiterates dussian| Mnf"

nuvaral

material into mylish, 4

*Reproduces material — | *Ativssrecerve sore se. soween
on verifax machine. i

fe bore woe 8 tative[erccitie uty wor 6 watiwe
nywace auuore

[a RARWATIVE DESCRIPTION OF WAYWER CF 700 PEAFORUANCE

DIRDETIONS. Street steengtha ond werkacstea, particularly thoy which wifect development an present jab.

Employee's work is productive and her accuracy has improved steadily. She is
cooperative and conscientious and ie willing to learn additdonal duties which

nay be assigned to here

SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JOB IM ORGANIZATION permanence

Know about the individual... .productivity. conduct in the job
I defects of talents,.,.and haw he (its in with your tewm. Con

SECTION 0.
DIRECTIONS: Také inte account here everything yo

Jrertinent pera
pore his with others doing sim
t= DEFINVTELY UNSUITABLE = NE SHOULD BC SEPARATED.

2-5 OF COVOTFUL SuITABILETY..-450L0 NOT HAVE ACCEPTED NIM 1F | HAD KNOMW WAT 1_KNO® NOW
3k BARELY ACCEPIARLE CUPESYEE...OELOW AVERAGE QUT GUTH NO WEARNESSES SUFFICIENTLY OUTSTANDING TO SAR-
& Rant iS SCPARATION

OF tHe SAE SUITABILUTY 4S MOST PEOPLE 1 KNCH IN THE ORGANIZATION
nari A Fine EVPLOVER - KAS SOME OUTSTANDING STREN GINS
cae Ay UNUSUALLY STRONG PERSON IN TERS AF fH€ REQUIREMENTS OF THE ORGANIZATION

CXCELLED BY ONLY A FER EN SUITABILITY FOR #ORG IN THE ORGANIZATION

Fars TNDIWIOUAL BETTER SUITED FOR WORK IN SOME OTWER PCSITION

EeUkie FULLY:

: Ne SECRET ad



SFCRET
oc “a cree retiea tet ER
I FITNESS REPORT (Part ID POTENTIAL
ipsannsioiastiaiaip ARSTRUCTICAS. _

RW TIP AININISTRATIVE OFFICER: Consult current inatrweticns for sommtetang this reports ced

eget csrmusication to yet superyi
he eaplegre deine

FOS THE SUPPRVISOR: This report Leo priv ant to onpropt!
rec und presonnel officiate concerning the potent fer TE We MOT to Be show to the
ent and personnel oft ier ganemied that you reat tbe entire ferore Ore STS a vucations Thin report

TEED STEISIECS only after ane eantogee has been yeeee FOUL ETE Bn AE LEAST $0 CATS. Uf Teas than 9
Re he competed only 2004 Oduye ned eteosets He ence ie the TATTAL RECTE S OMy Nontoyee, hosever. it MUST Be
SO ses amt ete SE NEH tothe G&e no tater than Qasinys after whe, Say dane Antisnted Oh Trea @ of Section “E* belos.

GENERAL

i (widdle) fa. SATE ce BHAT a, Set Tay SERVICE DESIGNATION
9/5/23. r_t SD:DS.

Tarasoffs

RT SePIEE!DTWIS1ON/ORANCH OF ASS IGNUENT

ppp/‘CI_Staff/SID_Projs

Fowanbe es oave REPORT OVE IN OF

Terag Pasetion TITRE

at Cineentee @

So Pearse coveaea NTS FE

October

Te. Type oF REPORT we Savewepe te tereene tee Qensuan (Speed)
eenere ener oru Possible promotion
SECTION Fe TEERTIFICATION

Tee TAD TNIBUAL BEING ATED

OUaT Ine Wat Tand REPORT REPRESTRES we ALEY SEEHEMENE CF

1 eee tee MATER:

trees SETET Serb evn goes OFFICIAL THTLE

Treis gate peereeteeease ANE s1ewa hs

21 October 1958 ssa telligence Asst,
ev taind GIGI ee Rea TS Sere ES ROC ee Te aT

meeiees vi STA PETE OF REVIEMING OFFICIAL

errerrits SSSINHS ine ye siqinee se Te
21 Octoder 1958 Oe AN me wy chsh Ohh, OL ect
‘SECTION 6. ESTIMATE OF POTENTIAL
nS }eRTIA Fo ASS GRATER OF SONS OLE THES

TARECTINS: Considering others of his grade aud tee of
DIRT UT tices, Think dw terme of the Rind of eesponsshslity encountered at 0

yume greater

Tennent dete the eaployeess potenti
a his kind of

ihe various levels

on :
Ve aumtapy anove THE LEVEL AT wnsee SATEsrActony PERTSNYINCE CAS OC OU EETR
Lr AMEND amv Ome LEE CEWEL AT mele, SAT FSTAST ORS TEMEONANCE C8 ETT
EE icab nenene tue ML OREST CONS Tyrac gersek nt Cay BM TaevMeD 10 ASSME GREATER AEBPONELOUCATISS
See eee AIRING. IM, ASRUMING GREATER: RESPONE/RCEITIES
4 7 RenOY rom tmeinMast ouenur ta wcee aamONSI AGE DSTEES M1 MOUY aan
meee) PME SP Ee ee RPS ROT SEE Beco
TEE $1 teTeectediowatreesoy tag 4 SE CF Cree wes SNS HE nMURES POR CARLY ASSUMPTION OF HIGHER
Uivet nesronsvarue ries

Fo pPeav sony POTENTIAL

TIENTIONS; Anawer this question:
Tasece Ls YES, indicate below your

RTGLe TRAINING, Indicate your opinion by ples:
SCTE ring yout opinion in the sppeopriate columns UY voce oe
SS ERTEM RE Machu colunn Tf base on oprnion of BI FOReOE NAL:

isan the #hidaty to Be a supervisse? TT your
a (the DMTSED nupeeetaory ability thip peewoa WiEL. seach ARTE
not eke nunsee of the descrimtave ratang below shich coors Frere
Pe EbSta’on chacteirg bie supervier, sore your
Move the rating in the “potential” colar.

laa this Bs

Te oars StTuATION
Ne Tis CANO OF SrTERTION
Stiga rs THIS RIND OF SUTEATION
Tees SUTUATISN

GPiwidw Ow wid Syheevsseey POFENTIAL
TROLvIDUAL, WOULD PE A CAS SUPER
metyiouat wouLe RE ay AVERASE 5:

TarsaTsisew or pie Tevnienal
Secret es eanacens (Farad 1

ore)

omen (Specily)

freer, G5 (Part H)or roms * eae ass ease, SECRET

Vite ss ARE OBSOLETE



SECRET

(then atte Ta)

Tae appear runte NUWOET OF wONTHS THE WATEO TUPLOEE HAE

5 Months”

pearety

COMMENTS CONCE RING POTENTIAL

Have no opinion, concerning employee's potential Lelingy vines

2 EH 49

May R Coy

FUTURE PLANS
im Fou tNOTWIDUAL

SECTION M
Te Tea ining Ga OWLS DEVELOPMENTAL CKPURVENEC FLAWAC

On-the-Job training 1s all that 1s necessary for this employee at this tines

SINT OTnER FACTORD. THCLUDING PENSONALCTMEUNSTANCES, TO OL TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IW INDIVIDUALS FUTURE ASSIGNMENTS

Employee is a conscientious and diligent individual. She readily carries out the .

various duties assigned to her and shows a willingness to take on any additional

aesignnentse

DESCRIPTION OF IROIVIOUAL
Ton ta provided a3 an tibing the individual es you ere hi
‘On the page below of statenents that apply in some de ‘most people.
the iett clatectnt in Dox nice the heading *category.* Read each stateneat and: ingert in the box the
seer Ot Cr untch best tells how much the statement applica to the person covered by this report.

Ge AS TO WOW Tut OESCRIPTION APPLIES TO THE

‘on the job, Interpret

70 THE INDEVOUAL TO THE LEAST POSSIGLE 0:
Teorviouat TO A Limi Teo DECaCe
ImDUVIDUAL FO AW AVERAGE DECREE
UmDEVIDUAL TO AN ABOVE AVERAGE OCGREE
APPLIES TO-tnDIVIOUAL TO AN OUTSTANDING DEGREE

STATENENT,

€ \

carecoRy MuMBER

feavecony, STATEWENT,

jeaTecony STATEMENT

errr 3PM LT iaase

ta. se

Jaa. 18 tmovenseue on ormeny

me

Jag. orargars suosrmene

Leeppanar ety saaeanaaas lee. 1 secuasty comscrous

ays seasarice

fag eoed wot teas Ieee

Fie iwlu ie lw fe le lu



: SECRET
teal 1 roe ed
FITNESS REPORT (Part D PERFORMANCE

iz _” “iwsravetions

AT Gaeteae taetewet

ed to Netp you express your evelestion +f yout
Tieain. Gegenjstion palecy FEEL

FON Tite AINTSTRATIVE, 6
FOR TIE SUFFHVISOR: Thin ceport

thie eeatustion to your sunerv iver end
fate chere be atends with you, Coole the report: cea Rely Fu Prevere, (98
Tein bine ceqaniration polley that you show Pert Tel they

Strength and eskoe:
fader comlitions enceifint in Reavy
maycwention. If thas fe .the ine
dane t me tater than 30 dteye atter the

SECTION A,

[a reconmemied het you ree
SOURS cartejed end forwarded to the Office 2

vi betow,

Ty OaTe oF eS

5 May 1935
orci MATES ERE

Qerk eae

by ward eeeses lus) ?

_December_1957__

jo orecray (Speed fr)

TS ornet envi

pop /F1/D/eB

aie aapont out im OP

TP Gugen. WPL AIN NS

Gute (a) aremormeatt st

Tine Gh ve Ds peawrwe at

face accause ESPeCE EPI:

2 Z

SEPTeLa)  REGSRO ANY SURSTANTE NT = ST

eae A DLT TUR UNDERSTANDING OF furs REPAT.

CATE

at
1

I exe naaemeeeee ae
[continue on erissnee sree

Peted in the above section
Te oF Riv Ferwe OFFIETAL

iy, thet_eny substan
ay tars OMTE Wwe

officer, FI/o/E3

Re ia ttubi oh gute EF

Jan 1353 areca] PCE ees
SECTION Co OB PERFORMANCE EVALU! ae
7, eATING an Gtweaal PAFORUANCE CF OY Hie
Gh hiss the aWvidual being tated Res gertoreed

DIFPCTIONS: Consider ORLY the productivaty Gad effectiveness
OUBRCTIONS: | Congiere eating period. Coopare him OMLY whim others MATE 2e TAs ork at 2 siaill
nae date dae rota other. than, productivity wabl br taken vate feceunt LAter * section D.

Level of respam

OUTNES ADEQUATELY, ME 1S INCOMPETENT:
Ce, ALTHOUGH ME WAS SAD SPECTE

+ oes NOT PERFO!

aarcuy aDcuaTe ts F
Caney QUT RESPONS 191U!
= Pearones woSt oF HIS
1 ptaromes outets 1% 8.

ROEANCE 08 TRAINING, HE OFTEN FAILS 7

uP Tavay: OCCASIONALLY REGEALE SO8E THEA OF MEANNESES.

LFECTOME MANNERS
Mas RESPONSE AR CTIES OY

rrramAUey att.

THREAT $2 API etraeineh“eeeer ed So) Sy
BRIE 21 dcledtgetararneties maven sy orerasoree weneea Tay OHS TARAS Fie omen PEAsoNs AER
Tee SureReIsoR

fmwe ys (Part I) cricuss gino tse ence” SECRET

sow ss
ant OBSOLETE.

Pérformance =



: SECRET.
(asen Fitted toy OFF,

Toeenses

DIRECTIONS:

b. State in the tpaces below up to sit of + important: SFECTFIC dag gna thay eating period.

Caer toon ce ba tach sprettie shury sunester ane ONLY effec U9 eT tornaet ll uil2.06 PH
re are tae turTeiit atenye be tated STsld Ee tue’non ests an eapes orn
ty entry.
Cene ene esyaah
ire et ot rrononesbi diay.
te ErmeMet A a uate aay be performing

ye

the individual being tated ith othree peetoyr ine the, seme duty

THERA on astseren

Herent duties. tf

of dutses that might be cated are:
aS AND USES ABFA KNOWLEDGE, QOVOCTS INTERROGATIONS
DEVELOPS: NEW PROGRAMS PREPARES SUMMARIES

EXNOUCTING SEMINARS ANALYZES INDUSTRIAL REPORTS: TRAVSLATES CERUAN

SRITING, TECHNICAL REPORTS wANAGES FILES DrngrERING SovRCES

CONDUCTING EXTERNAL LIAISON OPFRATES RADIO FERS ORS
rein CQIRDINATES. 81TH OTUER OFFICES DRIVES TRUCK

TAKING DICTATION BRUTES REGLLATIONS: WAINTAINS ALR CONDITIONING
SPERVESING PREPARES. CORRESPONDENCE. EVALUATES SIGVIFICANCE OF DATA
for sone jobs; duties may be broken down even further Hf supervivor considers nae combined key,
[es prone operation, am the case of, « radio operator. as
peratocts ta
Tmcoure tin¥ In twe PEAPOmuaNcE OF (HIS DUTY
: phetry ADLOUATE. IN) THE PCRFomWANCE OF THIS
esceiv tive bury
RATING Pemromus tmi3_uuly ACcERTAALY
suvete L tterowes ruts DUTY Im 8 COMPETENT WANNER tats oury
owas THES DUTY. Jy SucH ADIGE MANNER
Tuan we JS A DESTINCT ANSLT ON MIS 308
sowaee

We epred fies Faanptes of the kin
ORAL ARIZFING
GIVING LECTURES.

we Pea onas

FOUND IN VERY PF@ INDIVIDUALS MOLDING! S1M¥+
‘a0ms

Pe CRCELS ANYONE KNOW IN THE PAPO HUANCE OF

wut

Logeing Intelligence Material

Toon wot

Filing

Related Clerical Duties

TT Wanm erred DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB

DIRECTIONS: Stress strengths and weakness Ty those which effect developrent on present job.

duties in an accurst, competent and

Individual very elert end che eerfors all hy

thorough manner. She is a dofinits asset to the office.

SUITABILITY FO® CURRENT J
hereveverything you know about the individual... .productivity. conduct ia the 190.

ne eee gatects of talentarsecand how he fate tn with your trom, Gone
others doing “ini Shout the sane level.
 derianttersunsge Tanke | ME nauua bE SEPARATED
OF DoUaTFUL SUITABILITY... #9u C RCCEr EO HM HF LAD KNDMN amar 4 ano MO
OF COUNT eT LUDLOvEt -tetae AVERAGE BUT AIH NO SEAMNESSES SUFFIEICATAY OUTSTANDING. T2 7A"
fant wis SePAwATION
Beat dace, sur TASIL TY 43 woST PEOPLE | noe ty THE OR TAN
Seine fWPLOWEE «WAS SOME OUTTANEING STRENGTHS
aoe eee ey nmong reason ty. eeus OF THE MCQUIREWENTS OF THC ORGANIZATION

Mee onty A Ea Iw Surtanret ty FoR aed rm Tat OPGANETATION
pe tyes es

110M

Tiiw Gultéo FoR boRL im SouE OTwLe POSITION Im tHE “ORGANIZATION?

Ta Yas (woIvsOUAL
CAPLAN FULLY?



avtep ue tee AGENCY CERTIFICATION OF IN: 4NCE STATUS

Rewsto tou tess

usc comisson

caret tems ried *. Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance Act

T. FIL NAME OF CuROWE 7) EOATE OF BIRTH WONT, ONY, FEAR)
Anna May 5, 1923

3, CHECK THE REASON ROW FEGWINATING INSURANCE

o
ob Brant arcane
en cece aetueNT

Ow Cro

‘WAS EMPLOYEE AT TIME OF

E CHECK APPROPRIATE BOX CONCEENING 5 F, 54 DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY

a 0 cane a AGENCY CI} FOUDER (8 EQUIVALENT

NOTE a runiovee iy 19 OF 0 18 REMBING OF RECEIVING FTOETAL FAOTEES’ COMPENSATION UNDER CONDITION (MTITUNG HM TO RETA

JMEE LIE INSURANCE, ATTACH CURENT 5, F. 54, IF ANY, 10 ORIGINALS. F, 5S AND CHECK 80% 4 fa} ON ORIGINAL AND ALL COPIES OF 5. f,
ON FILE, CHECK BOX 4 (bi), IN ALL OTHER CASES, SHOW WHETHER OR NOT CURRENTS. F. 5415 ON FILE BY

56, IF NO CURRINT SF. $415,
CHECKING 8OX 45) CZ (ch A CURRENTS, F, $4 15 ONE THAT HAS NOT BEEN CANCELED BY EMPLOYEE OR AUTOMATICALLY BY TRANSFER Of
PRIOR TERMINATION CF INSURANCE, 3

DATE OF Even CREGRED VHEM S| & ANNUAL COMPENSATION BATE” NOT AWOUNT OF IN] 7, DATE OF NONCE OF CONVERSION
SURANCE = (CONVLAT DAILY, HOURLY, PIECEWORK ETC. | PRIVILEGE (SF 55) TO EMPLOYEE

URONTH, OAY, YEAR,
‘RATE TO ANNUAL RAT) ON DATE IN ITEM Ss. (MONTH, DAY, YEAR)

September 8, 1963 3. 545-00 are annum October 2, 1963

ET CERTIFY THAT THE ABOVE NACEMATION HAS BEEN OBTAINED FROM, AND CORRECTLY REECTS OFFICIAL RECORDS. AND THAT THE EMPLOYEE
NAMED WAS COVERED SY REZERAL EMPLOYEES’ GROUP LIFE INSURANCE ON THE OATE SHOWN IN ITEM 5. (SIGN ORIGINAL ONLY

2 OCT 1963
)

‘Fersenal tars a shared ogeacy afc)
‘Tie rome oF ehaioed gency oH Taney
P.O. Box 3521, Central Station, Arlington, Va 22203

“paieg aston of ey

Fave ove

SEE OTHER SIDE
FOR
INSTRUCTIONS TO EMPLOYING AGENCY

PART 3 — FLLCOPY .


(teat t,o tan or bench of bit aye, Use only Ne

A BENEFITS REGISTRATION FO" ™

ere otabs MUALTN SUMUNTS ACT OFM

west
x mas
nut.

619_ Gaim sv:
fo. Are you covered by, oF «8 ory lam
lan

‘avotimant of anther

sermons la} naw cees CI

teow 10.4080

PART B
rare’
rot iF 100
wis 10
FEAL IN A
ute NERS
aM

im pion es shown

Tanya jabato 2

Danie ecco Wr be rede (rom my salary, son powers, oF onmty
SE ate four nt ite cover of twoxhurs Fe

parm)

Mo fe wth nn mo toy oF pone
ror Gecouse of te desde ty, 39 incapable

ty PARE MUST

+ | nso ne muteD

as i TOW
(Gane TOUR
warocuaiat

STW you ore @ erate (employee oF onnui
support by fenvon of menial or physical

tae

atabilty winch cam ve exposes PO continue fOr

“PARI
ut is
mh roe
norte
Tiou ot
Tenia
et
Fenty

Se By

Br Defect to comcal my prevent eneil

By mss:

(uj tam covered By a sen

san anor tre

Groper boat
th Benafty Act through the enroll

CO tun which i aor under the Heath

paaT D
i DHS

| Benen A:
ant andes tha Healt Beret Ac ieaeerniveanien

7 Gare recut
Coacins once

PART F | i
wet 1 eh. Jos.
OUP TED. { te Biron office no
i
Hen |
REMARKS |
ws oat
‘ants
2
suey Ae
Fripticare—To Cap'ering ORS



mS sam
ie APPOINTMENT AFFIDAVITS :

IMPORTEANT.— Before awearing to these appointment affidavits, you should read and understand
the attached information for appointee

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY Washineton, D.C,
‘i Pace of eegerened

do solemnly swear (or affirm) that—
: Ps

A. OATH OF OFFICE :

I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; that I will well and faithfully discharge the
duties of the oftice on which I am about to enter, SO HELP ME GOD.

B. AFFIDAVIT AS TO SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY AND AFFILIATION

Tam not a Communist or Fascist. I do not advocate nor am I knowingly a member of any
organization that advocates the overthrow of the constitutional form of the Government of the
United States, or which. seeks by force or violerice to deny other persons their rights under the
Constitution’ of the United States. I do further swear (or affirm) that I will not so advocate,
nor will I knowingly become a member of such organization during the pericd that I am an em-
ployee of.the'Federal Government or any agency thereof.
C. AFFIDAVIT AS TO STRIXING AGAINST THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

I am not participating in any strike against the Government of the United States or any

| agency thereof, and I will not so participate while an employee of the Government of the United

States or any agency thereof, I do not and will not assert the right to strike against the Govern-
+ ment of the United States or any agency thereof while an employze of the Government of the
* United States or any agency: thereof.’ I do further swear (or affirm) that I am not knowingly a
member of an organization of Government cmployees that asserts the right to strike against the
Government of the United States or any agency thereof and I will not, while an employce of the
Government of the United States or any agency thereof, knowingly become a member of such an
organization, os
D, AFFIDAVIT AS TO PURCHASE AND SALE OF OFFICE
Thave not, ror has anyone acting in my behalf, given, transferred. promised or paid any con-
sideration for or in expectation or hope of receiving assistance in securing such appointment.

E, AFFIDAVIT AS TO DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE
The answers given in the Dectaration of Appointee on the reverse of this form are true and

correct.
__& Apr 1957

wie.

{seat}

coe
NOTE.—If the oath is taken before a Notary Public the date of expiration of his commi
be shown. ‘


DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

‘This form is to be completed before entrance on duty

Answer cl! questions. Admiitcd "nfavorable

information about such matters as arrests or discharges will be considered together with the favorable information
in your record in determining your present fitness for Federal employment. However, a faise statement of
dishonest answer to any question'may be grounds for dismissal after appointment and is punishable by law.

Traisinr ADOWEsS (olagat and number, city and State)

(SIP Gries ythé 3/0 SL Weise Do.
2G) DATE OF Bint 7 | PLACE OF int (eity and State or city and foreign country)
243 Chill pn gi fb: ase
Drammen

310) CASE OF CMCRGENCY, PLEASE ROTTY

LEDS DP Dau SCE.

MATION

esc NB Coriperiyihhe ST $e

(CO STROEY #AD RUMDCAL CITY AND STATE,

hig BADE

{© 00e8 THE UNITED STATES GOVERNWENT COEPLOY, WA EILAN CAPACITY, ANY RELATIVE OF YOURS (EITHER BY BLOOD OR MARRULGO WIT: WHOS YOU LAE OR HAVE LIVED WITH

TAME PAST 24 MOTI?

as trash raenctna in the Bans etoe. tational pace i acne. complete undettom 2

rae

9 rat ih RORY Om RSE
“Bia

AEA DL

INDICATE ANSWER BY PLACING “"X" IM PROPER COLUMN irs No

INDICATE ANSWER BY PLACING "X" IN PROPER COLUMN | YES! NO

TD Ase you A CHitun of twe unite sTATes ov AuEmICA. OR CO) ASA |

10 (A) HAVE YOU EVER FILED A WAIVER OF LiFe FeSCRAME COVERAGE

OM PASEO eS ee | ae ia OMS ASPEN SLANE
Sa Sash tal x
| ARE YOU AM OFFICIAL OR EMPLOYEE OF ANY STATE, TERRITORY, COUNTY, OF i] (UF Yes mae PotD SUCH A WAIVER, HAS =F BIDN CANCELED OF
pas xP BSc
_Hiyour anuoer tx“Yas." five dataite In Htam 12. | Ea &k
CR ee ee ee enna aa | | |< Soa RR TORT TER OTT
mumamermmmneaniven mem | | |\mugimmesansarurannasrenen ;
BER REERESERIORS| | [SNR armen ;
Iu nee dati nt |) vom wore wiser sector La
Fe ere] :
Ser Race ae PRRGRI ReLORPEESTER DS | || anne me mcenoarn eran rvncten ta _
Sie eitemnenannirmtemts | |) ono eee Tapa
Bostic Bae and cate Coven woe war taro mire
| ipa Mave YOU BEEN DISCHARGED FROM THE ARMED SERVES UNDER
ence ten ditt 19 fetch sve sy ts cone on
Lit appracienate Gyeharge, GD place, (0) action taken. ji uF cones OMS)
ange vou nro apoucavon atgctrna om Tn apron rai ANE | abrah San
[DUHNATIONS OR ACCEPTING CIVIL SERVICE APPOINTMENTS? 4 iat

aed menos oe | | N | A

jon numbers to which anewers apply)

[sore

‘with the Civil Service Act, applicable Ci

Setitiths

INSTRUCTIONS TO APPOINTING OFFICER.—You must determine that this appointment woo!
i Service Rules and Regulations, aud acts of

‘This form should be checked for hoiding of office, pension, any fecord of recent disc

bers of family. Also, to establish the identity of the appointee, you should particular!

[qaiaat the opplication and /or other pertinent papers and (2) his physical appearance agamay the medic
a} mionabemce seesatens

<
be in conformance
ietess pertaining to appotatrent,

rec for neteat. age, citisesshipy and meme
(Gi) his signature anubbhadwriting

‘cortadcatea,)



[ stannano roeu 184

Seren STATEMENT OF PRIOR FEDERAL ‘AN AND_ MILITARY SERVICE

te Ma AND DETERMINATION Or vumMPETITIVE STATUS

IMPORTANT: The information on this forma. ‘wilt be itsed (1) in determining creditable service for le: rposes_and retention
eect a erp acer oor fi aD

= : LEnrLOVEEs sTATENON PART {L—THIS COLUMN IS
FOR PERSONNEL OFFICE USE

° (2 OATE OF IRTH 18, RETENTION GROUP

S25 PF. te Acscstatus (_] ves [J #0
B.TYe oF pReSENT
TroRtnent

a. List Tue ouLcaiG WWrORWATION CONCERNING ALL FEDERAL AND EGTRICT OF COLUMBIA WAVE HAD
PRIOR To TOUC PRGA ROM TNEAT CBee cae tener niinaiaainad

a To Wr SERVICE

maser avo LOCATION OF AGONY
‘mown [ ony | rear | mourn | ony You [sone
|

ACTIVE SERVICE WY ANY
A LIT PERO Ce ACT VR SEWAGE WF ANY BEANERTOF THE ARMED FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES, IF YOU HAD HO SCTIVE

DISCHARGE
(Honor dishon 2)

ewer
ou

: DURING PERIOSS OF EWPLOYMENT SHOWN IN ITEM 3, DID YOU RAVE A TOTAL OF MORE THAN 6 MONTHS ABSENCE | 12 TOTAL SERVICE

MIHOUT PAY. INCLUDING PERIODS OF NERCHANT MARINE SERVICE. OURING ANY ONE CALENDAR YEAR? [ ] ¥ES [|] NO
ao vw ea
IF ANSWER TS “YER” LIST FOLLOWING IFFORMATION, Seer |

Tre o KNOWN Least ae eee
(ewor, Paid Sure TROL, Moe Mat) [eon er [ras [aoe

Te NONCREDITABLE SERVICE
(RIF purposes ony):

DURING THE FLOERAL SERVICE LISTED IN ITEM 8, DID YOU ACQUIRE A PERMANENT COMPETITIVE CIVIL SERVICE STATUS?

Os Oo» 1S REEWPLOVHENT RIGHTS
Ut anneee a “You” inwhat névncy were you empliayed atthe time status wan acquiced?) Cvs Cr

Te RETENTION RIGHTS
TARE YOU: Oe Ow
Aram room west [Je [re i eipen one Ge ReToe
a neuonaenearecustooe xexroveroun [Js [J THON Rich
6 THE UNEP MARRIED WITCH OF A VETERAN? ial we 0) CJ
7 © TO BE EXECUTED BEFORE A NOTARY PUBLIC OR OTHER PERSONS AUTMORIZED TO ADMINISTER OATHS.
I swear (or affirm) that the above statements are truc to the best of my knowledge and belief.

an

SBAL ‘ Zs
Aged Pepe
NOTE: If oath is taken before a Notary Public, the date of expiration of his Commission should be shown.
INSTRUCTIONS: File wis fors onthe pomenen de ofthe employee's official panonnel folder immediately belore oF after the penonnel



DETERMINATION OF. COMPETITIVE STATUS.
tions in FPM Chapter S2.).

TWANE OF AGENCY

SIGNATURE AND OFFICIAL THTLC

{Camptete for noncompetitive hires based oc. Somes

2 ioral ies acompeutive status, This determination is based ‘apa the foltovwi

‘TOTALSERVICE

Alton 12)

NONCREDITABLE,
‘SERVICE

ram 13)

ENTRANCE ON
‘UTY DATE

CPremnnn Agenen)

SERVICE COM:
PUTATION DATE

Cesve Pur

[PART ¥.—DETERMINATION Of
those cases when the &
feave purposes.)

F EREDITABLE SERVICE-AMD SERVICE CO!
mount of creditable service for reduction i

IMPUTATION DATE FO!
in force purposes differs

JR REDUCTION IN FORCE PURPOSES. (Complete only in

amount creditable for

TOTAL SERVICE

(tem 1D,

NONCREDITADLE | CREDITABLE

‘SERVICE
rom 1)

‘SERVICE,
(RIF Purposes)

[ENTRANCE ON
DUTY DATE

(Present Agency)

LESS CREDITASLE | SERVICE COM:
‘SERVICE PUTATION DATES

(1 Purposes _| (SIE Purposes)

;

7
i
|
i



a SECRET

(Then Filled Jay

[eT PERIODIC SUPPLENENT
ns PERSONAL MISTORY STATEMENT

INSTRUCTIONS

e obkecial 9
se ealt Be nec

ATE omty af th

tom!

fare provides the meane oh
foraiahed i
complete Seeteene BU em

thon or If pou Dtlueve the atom cequices

e [section t : GENERAL,
Ue wae (EARL

City, Tones Staley

‘ooRtSS (ov. Stover,

CRM AE ST SE Wt, de DL

TORY, POSSESSION ON COUNTRY IN smiGH YoU NOM CLAIN

of stcrice 1 PERSIA TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF GNERGENCY
Te Mant {CAT FUFREGNTGUTO PREFERRGLY ALSTDINE IN Vos TRUATONT
ISCEE LEBES Sd D
3 ome A0uRtaS (Nees SEF
2 Gn 2S Se Wont 3,
Sr \

as mane OF Fifw OR LPLOYER, 17 APPLICABLE

58 (Nove Stéeet, City, Zone. eS
Cite Ls Y

Be.
Se ROWE TELEPHONE NUM ES Cee OTT To GUSINESS TELEPHONE EXTENSION

“7260 ; C) ny me
NA Es S

1F SUeH NOTIFICATION

“7 5 Oey
o [terion 1 Henne stars

Bo FuRNr ae GATE, PUAEE AnD REASON FOW ALE SEPARATIONS, D1FOREES OW ANNULMENTS

fate sheet For forme. wife oF
we dats for Hance.

nulmente, use

is contenpiated, provi.

sPO'sk: 1f you have Been warcied acre than once, tactuding
Noshand giving data Below for all previous earciages. Uf oare

Faeroe (firety es (Haden) Treaty
Beads. Mee! LAOBRSOL LS.

a. OaYe Sr ammvaGe T PUACE GF wamaiact (City, State, Country)

BH ID Che yei nine Quer 2 ”

GT RDORESS OF SPOUSE GCTORE WARHLAGE (NO... Street. City, State, Country)

$20 WoL SE ew voor, My. poses

T tvinG | & DATE OF Scam 9. case oF oeATw

<tr
10. cuaReaT

I CHINES VALE.

Tr. 2ate OF Bim tH The : nye
a Vee 1608. PAT LN MSL AV RUSS iE

Toe TF este OUTSIOE UsSVEATE OF ENTRY [EA PLATE OF ENTE

HEW. MWY.

Oat ‘tet Te HN ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)

WA

TT ipowse te dee

WE Gta GEd. Chie Lynee)

“TT Jeceavedy
[pitt 2D

Ta icity, Start, Coun

irersiry

Ta. OCCUPATION
20. EMPLOYER'S CR BUSINESS City, State,

2930 E. STW wasn DE
‘Seerih 11 CuTINUED YO PAGE F

a daria tw

Ste

+ FORM UYUD ae var vre

tons?


ef section iv RELATIVES

SECRET

(thee Palind toy

‘SeCTIGN HH

Tiavice OF ePousT (Plows ant Fi

FLO, 3 099) —

jaancn OF SERVICE

scorer

rarnrerresy

oe

Far BeVanns Ov OTHER GOVE

Den dupy wird 6 4

LS,

C23

‘BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION LIVING CBRDAD OR HNO ARE AOT U.S. CITIZENS

rercrareny ry

ioFivat-wiadtey

RECATONam IP

E Te FURR wane CL)

To ROORESE OR COUNTAY IN amvcW RELATIVE ESE

FaLQUENeY OF CONTACT

B Citegensuie (Counter)

To Fou wane Whaat Pleat owidite)

aaUaTiongnt®

True wane (Lett Fiveumiddtey Fo REUAT ONS rr
Se On COUNTRY IN @HICH RLLATIVE AESIOUS.
Ber tegiwan (Country) aT FarQUNGY OF CONTACT To BATE OF CAST CONTACT
7 3 ate

To ADRESS OF COUNTRY IN WHIEm RELALIVE BESIDES

H CizenswiP (eount ey) [ TReauuncy oF Contact

(aa Tate OF aaaT CoRTAET

Tevarionsso™

Pi ceunt wawt (LaatsPiretwiddte)

To ADORESS OR COUNTRY IN wHicw RELATIVE BESIOES

a FARE STS
E

TARE YOU ENTIACLY OCPEMOENT ON YCUR SALARY?

re

Rite g.3. CORPORATIONS O® BUS:

ANSMERED "YES

GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS .OW A SEPARATE SMELT AND ATTACH IP

CosromaTaNs.

DO YOU WAVE ANY FINANCIAL INTEREST IN, OM OFFICIAL CONSEETION #ITH, NONGU-S
Cases wavING suastanfiat FoRcton inteactrsy [_}ers

oe

A sralee Cnvenerts

a BUSINESSES oa IN Se

th seg mat

G00 vou RECEIVE AW ANNUITY FacU t

Ksr0Ns OR COMPENSATION FOR MILITARY CK NAVAL SERVICE™

Chis

Pho

UNITED STATES OW DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA GOVEAAMANT UNTER ANT RETIREWENT ACT.

iy vou WAVE ANSWERED "VES" TO QUESTION 3 ABOVE, GIVE COWPLETE DETAILS.

fs witwout PEFERENCE TO VOUR SaLany, STATE OTHER

TOORCES OF RECURRENT INCOME ROT IROICATED BY PRECEDING FTEWS,

‘SECTION V COsTinuED TO PAGE 3

SECRET
2


\ seat SECRET

: tanen Fatled 19)
SECTION V CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2

SGI ec instr rorions wetn ameen rou heel #7Crie
ponseay FeLty, Stote, Countiy)

wat or INSTHTUTION,

TomED FOR, BANKRUPTCY
Give PARTICULARS,

Fwave you EVER AEN IM. O8
PAu WANE DRSHERED “VEST TO GUEDTION 7 ABOVE.

CLTUZEnSHIP
CITTTiNsni APQUTRLO DY cmuce UA) ah

Mee Cle ED ores cSpecity)

of section ve
Tr eoUNTAY OF EuNRLNT EITIZENSM

Save vou TARER BTEPA TO CHANGE YOUR

Parser crterensmser (Jes B57

STF vO0 WAVE APPLIED FOR Usd. CHTITENSHIP «

Tinivan Thivat paperas ate)

Tneicate PRESENT STATUS OF

EOUCATION

TTTEan Ee TAD renneSY Levee OF FDUCATION ATTA/DI

ef section vit

[s<[erew cenoon

FoeouL oe ae UNIVERSITY STUDY

uence

reams AND LOCATION OF COLLEGL OR UNIVERSITY

Samar coumERET AT mn SPLCTALNINO BCS ES
is
i DATES ATEFMDED

AME oF ScHOOL stupy on SPECHALHZATION

Doe

Gaimine (Pall tine duty 10

GD usheole auch a8 Ordnance

preity

gTudy 08 RPCCHALITATION ae
| ae

SINES TODUATIONAL TRAINING ROT (MDIGATEO GOVE

nam of scwoot

SECRET
3


= SECRET : : i

(anen Felted tay
‘SECTION ¥ CONTINUED FROM PAGE 8

wor (Do We
on, nesen tile

Taieg Nene fie

FicanT Pum rgwro WATER:
tmoreary time DATE, AND WRC OF
jects, novel

TRUENTED BAD STATE BUTTER Ow ROT Tady GRE PATENTED

. THOIEATE anv FUWIEES witew VOU H

LIST ANY PUOLE PEAKING AMD PUBLIC RELATIONS EXPLRIENCE

TD ACADEMIC OR HONDMARY ASSOCTATIONS ‘On 'SOCiETIES Im mwICH YOU ARE NOW OR wCRE
ECE VED.

YO. st any
MEMDUAT UIST ACADEMEE HONORS YOU MAYE

Ti ORGANI ZATION WORK EXPERIENCE SINCE LAST COMPLETION OF A PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS ‘QUESTIONNAIRE

351 GNMENT

3 3

7 T"gmaot] 3: ore 1ce/04vis1 ON/
GAT

7
Ios iLL, SLE.

17.97 0: th 20 NOS FAL
perceeniee Ca PEERAGE _C:

 OESERIPTION oF OUTIES

Ver Cinadait or! Ln besltens: Milenitese VOR itty OF GME
y

Te INCLUSINE DATES (Frome and Tom Gnave [1- OFF IEE/OIVESION/ BANC OF ASSIGNMENT

Ltt ot GS | ee 4s 70 Lf Pfolee”,

ho. OF pincer | 3. oFficiat PRITION TH

sureavision ETLAALEL MEE CLLR

=
Go OescRIPTiON OF OUTICS

TAN SATEEN N ME - LE COADS (Fe

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (Prom and fo-) Tr cwack]9: OF iCL/OIVIS1ON/ BRANCH OF AGSIGNUENT

mad Sy neeaRaAnel wile WlL. Lig

Sor oF EuPLOVEES UnDeA VoUR DIRECT |S OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

SUPERVISION

T peseaie tion oF ouTees

Twctusive gates (From and Tor) OFFIEE/OIVISION/ BRANCH OF ASSIGNMENT

WO. OF EMPLOYEES UNDER vOUR OIACCT | 3. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE
SuPcevesion

DESCRIPTION OF OUTIES

So TOFF Tee aii stON/OPANGH OF ASSTCMMENT

iwctusive pares € aa

Tp. @rrecia, POSITION TITLE

Wor OF EMPLOYEES UNDER YOUR 0:
SUPERY) SION

Tow oF ourieS

SECRET
Os



SECRET

(onsFilted 48) 7
CHILOREN AND OTHEW OEPERDERTS .

Nessie or cuicomts (incleding
aad ade

KADER aN Ye Tuten surront, Om,
supporting, AGC Wad AME MOL 84442 SuPPOR ting

€_THE FOLLOWING InvORwATION (OR ALL CHILOMEN AND O€PTwotMTs

AOEITIONAL COVMENT, ANO/OR CONTINUATION OF PRECEDING (Tew

SiGwATURE OF EwPLoveE

DATE cowunTel

is : SECRET

‘ i













en ETE I TE

2 es ictrammmermrereee nena on




at-00000















ABsinaciasteras > tae oe

Pee er oe
caer ee


CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMATION

SECURITY APPROVAL
Date: 29 May 1957

TO: Chief, Records & Services Division Your Reference: C8238 “AS :
FROM: chier, See Een | Case Nunber: 191751

Persoanel
SUBJECT TaRASCFF, Anna Adamovies

This is te sdvide you of security action in the subject case as indicated

a
belo:

(Gy security aprroval is granted the oubsect person for access to classified
information.

(21 Provist glosrance fr full duty sith CIA 1s granted under the provisions
of Parsersph'D of Kemulation 10-% shich provides for a temporary nppotnt~
ment pening compiotion of full security Investigation,

recter of Central Intellisence has granted a provisicnal clearance
y with CIA under the provistono of. paragraph H of Regulation

Unless the subject pergon enters on duty within 60 days from the nbove

date, approval becomes invalid.
3. Subject is to be polygraphed as part of 20D procedures.

: Ne

,
We M. Knott
ne

CONFIDENTIAL
to

FORM NO. 38-101
FEB 1988 axat



\ ne

CONFIDENTIAL
SECURITY INFORMATION

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

a 1
: Date: ‘19 Karch 1957

10: Catef, Aecords urd services Division, OF
Personnel
FROM: Chief, Security Division, OS

SUUEC, Takes Zt, anna - #131751 Request Ko. C-2238

l. Reference 1s made to your request for security clearance of the subject
person who 4s being considered for employmerit in the following position:

2. This 15 to advise you of the following security action:

a. £2) Provisional security clearance 19 granted to permit subject’s
employzent on a temporary basis in the following area or in the following

capacity: Interis Assignzent Section

This clearance is granted upon the condition that subject: 1. not
have access to classified materials 2. not have access to secure areas:
3. not be issued a badge or credential; 4. not represent himself as a
_CIA employee ;and-5.-..not-be-assigned to. any unclassified duties other

than indicated above.

b. £] Neme-checks have been completed on this person. Arrangements
should now be gade by your offico for an interview in this Division, Upon
completion of this interview further consideration will be given to the re~
quested Limited clearance for access to information classified no higher than
Secret. If subject has not entered on duty under a previously granted pro-
vistonal clearance the interview should be arranged after entrance on duty.

e- Io] Subject 1's. security approved for temporary appointment to a posi-
tion requiring access to, information classified no higher than Secret.

Ofticials of the employing office should be advised of this secu-
rity Limitation and should be instructed to supply future supervisors with
advice as to the limitation so as to insure continued compliance.

Security action to effect full approval is continuing and your
office «ill receive advice of full clearance upon completion of this
action. Upon receipt of full security clearance, the present limitation
will be rescinded and supervisors should be advised accordingly.

3.

CONFIDENTIAL

fan sence sourenise

ast

