# 104-10529-10179

## Page 1

104-10529-10179

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

S

# i.

F.

1421

DaRN 1:309

OSIO 13E.

HOE. AN3.9

TEOF SADE ATHLE

SIDe DE Ri

37÷ 4093 4558

FAN?

HACX НАВО ОЛІЯ

ARUD 10S-I KEAS.

RiOD

INTER SJAR ADD!

FOLLA MI

FEMINITE TUTO RILBARAULE IU MAIDUNI

I SOTIET IFTRACIAL CÓLTRATE TODAY: MRITARS OP

THE RILERAL

PERSUASION SLEN N0 BE RETRIFIA, MORE ON 1E6 GROTEC LOST IN LEAT

OFTINGS CULTURAI "RAFTERIS " CONSRETATITES ME SATIN VOCAL, IS TASIE

CRYTICIEN. AND KNATURARY APPEAL LO IATE DOVESEN A POSITION

DY RELATITS NETZRALITY. •DOMA

?

SOTIET 405?749 -5 STALISM;YN, AM IRD AERLIX ACCESS: TEL.

LATEST AETOERE SIRST IS & MUTTER IFTICATIGE THAT BUSCOE IT-

15MA3 TO CORTINER HARASSIN "RI: TEN COSTATE TO CUBICE ARMiDA

UR DEADS: TOO HEAR ESTED FEST BERLIN.

ROr!!

---

## Page 2

Close in ind

81421

"ERTIRERATE PROVOCATION "ILE ISSR APFARENTLY DESIRES TO AVOID

TIY RISE OF EVEN A LINTIXN MILITANY CONPRONTATION.

= CATATA PITHA SPORTY MUNNAHMET IS MNITATING IT LEVENS

18 MORE COMIRNSURATE MITH ITS POSITION AS A "ETTRE CARI» RAER.

TUIS ALICE LATINI IN GUESHANTA DE MOULTING URSASIRESE IN THR DEFENSE

MSDARTHLAT OVER GAE RETULLE OLIANA '& HILITARY COMLITHENTS AND BESOURS.

TO CARAX TEN OUT. ALTPOTUB BONT CUT. IN BAFBADITURKS BAVE BETE

FADE ANE VORE ARB EXPACTED, AY INRi! SRIFE IN TEE GOTERNHANT'S POLICY

7O ACCITE MECLEÃS ILAFORS IDS DE ATS CARADIAN PORCES STATIONED IN

CAMANA 1B INHYIRLY, IN ERY SELL I LEACEPTI MAT OY GITIRE DE A

MOMLEAR ROLE ORCE TA 7-1•49 APA NONARES BECOME DESOLETE. //

1. ITALY TEE POLITICAL SIATTON IS MARKING TIES, POLLONING

FIBMIER LIHUNES EESIGNATION AND LINDIRE PRESIDEFT SEGNTS APEJINTURN!

TO PET TOMSTHER À 12N 194) 1OY 10V0HEM FILM PRONABLY : i!

---

## Page 3

14-00000

÷

SECRET

-DACE THRER...

PROSPECT. IROSITI OUT A NUTRALLY ACCEFTABLE IBVISLATIVI PROGRAM

BAS VET TO DE FACHO DE TO. IMPROVIDE TEN FROSFECTE FOR SUOCESAEUL

#GOTIATIONS IS TIL FORITION OF THE CHINCH THICH ANTIB TO HAVE

TEXPEESE SOIPULAT 1T9 DUROSITION TO A MUNIES IN TOICE TES LUGIOTIÁN

DEMOCRATA AND BOCLALISTO FOTIÙ DA FALTAS.

§ TIRAND LOS FINTAR CARIBES CRISIB SANED 31 OCT THEN

PASTY CIVIL BRAVANS LO FILL POSTO VACATÃO BY TAMEA UNION ESPHEBERIA...

-ÀDO Y ELLO LITIOS MI DIT BEFI LININTS SEL MONE SINIZZIA DIÀ BXATI

SEANEAT FULOSA II LATRE FRITRS, MIS MAPANOTE A PRIME TO THE

RICAT BY TIS ARARIANS VEO PISVIOUSLI EAD DECIASAD TERY POULD NUT

AIETICIPITE IN & LABINET UBICH DIY HOT INCLEDE LABDR AIPRSARNTATIVES

INCONTRAT OPTACIALS HAVE HATAIRKD TEXIX GLO CABINAS PONTE, MOTIO TIR

EN BUE LATE INDE ASATURNO TO FOSTO ON EXHOS INPORTANCE. ONK

IDENTIFTNN VITA THE AGRASBAY LIDTUTTI, HALONOS TO A BUALL FACTUA

TRICH ADVOCATAS DONSULZET PARTICINTIOE IN THE COVERNBRE. (CONT)

AND AGEICTITERAL SUFISTERA MA: DETERHITE SHETHER BOMY AND PN:I.. :%:

Merindaddi do lini ananto y minn 1040i : 8160

?;

---

## Page 4

3:16:0

13.:8.18

?..:.

r...

1159.

191053 1 422

SIS CF4

rivis

913 11:2

8!421

-200X F379

DISTUTE. ON KEY INSUX OF GRATE PRICES ANI

SPIRES iS SCALESLY

MOTITIONS MR OCMONISE. ME BRALE SOLITION, TO PIX MRICTS

as if Can Fan AS dr Lives, Anas 70

DASY 0458.

TOR SANY, BIRT ION CODE TOL

And so cons mr ta

%. INNER: RADOX ALASLA LONDON TO CORTIRE PIRACIRE TAS IS

OCSEIVATIOS ELETON LA TEEN ONE STAN OUT ATTER CHUNN PRINCE

PATSAL HAO LICEIVED AESTRARCOR MAT SE US VOOLA ELES STRONG

IS MANNER. PAYPAL PAS

LAR TY CIRAN THAT EX ILL BE ESTIMPILO ONLY LE CAIRO QUECILY

INTRANS ALL TIS TOOTE VITY TA PARTIES BOPTION SP A BRAKE

MILTINI ADVISUNY MINAXEN. IN FOURRELY DOUNTS THAT BAYPT VILL DO

E3 FINALITS DO FILUX AIL TO THE THE LOYALIBTS

MARIE

..: ... :::::::

--..

---

## Page 5

"tel

:?2

$.G 6F4

L.::

"PAGE POIR.

DISPINS. ON ELY ISSUE OF GRATE PRICES ANAPES :E BCARLI

MONTIOTA PRE OSTROGISE. THE TALE BOLIION.

HANDPE SINGER CURRIT FILICE AND CELIN LEVENS, AFFEARS TO

INTERIST ISTTINA PASTY, MATHIS PORSIBILTTIES MAN MIASY OXES.

PO FRAME, DISRE INTONI SITATDIZITICN CE INS GATELE FARSES, i

PROPOSAL SO CONTINT MAZ ITO PRASTICANTENTY TA QUASTIONASE.

?.

BALDI ASADIA LOISO TO COMINOS PIERAGE TES 5:

COESAVATION MISSION IN TRUSY UNTIL d JAN COSE AFTRE CROAN PAINE

PAYBAL HAD RECEXTID AISTNANCES THAT TAX UN MOULS EXERT STIONE

ASSSUE CY BLYDE TO SORDE THE MANY DE MEE MERRILET.

PAYEAR "AS

TITIBRATE ALL IYA TEDOTS TITY TEE DOESTELI TACEPTION OF A BALI

Xi TILA LISA LUBL BINION INHUGORI LN MAINETA INOBILAY INTAINTI

MIS, ANO XAT IN TARPANIR TO NER ALE HO IS FEIR BOYAIIBTS

MIE MEET, APTAINT: MARANTS DE PANTED TO REDECE PR IEUDYIS:

min? AN.

---

## Page 6

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SRCERT

19871

r.

; 1

i? і

-FACT TITE

8/421

SAS LITTLE SOCIERS IN TORETRO OUT A POLITICAL RUTTIESTS THAT

FOILD FLACATI TRINTS NON HOSTILE TO TIR RNDUBRICAN MSGTHE. ALB

VITORIA TO ACHIIVE A NOTE SIONULI BARED CONZACEIT MAY RE

рАСТ пие 1114518447 балій] ло в сі РОВ РІС

TINATHANI RECCSTITS I SPACE ATOACI.

3: STRIA-IRAG. RUMORS DE TURNINE POLITICAL LETON BETTERE

IENO ATO STRA CONTINI TO ADORNO NI SUDA COUNTIES IN DE CAS

ON MA BASEY RAMANS BUNTER PEACATE/TO LAPID PREPE

TOMATO DECIALIZATION AND ABLE METY APRAENTLY DONTRATED THE

POCKKATNOB, I/AND PARTY CO-TOLESA SALAN BITAB, HON PESHIER 07

BIRLA, VIDENLY HAS BEE DROPSO TOO TS INESRRASTORRE CENTRAL

BIRE RATIPESTO BAS TURTHISA

ALIENATIN TADITIONAL SORRE GLOURS IN BOTH COLNILIES EITSOUT

GAININO ANY SIGHIVICAHI RES ASTHEENIE. CIVIL SERVANTS AND ARET

SETICINE HAVE BREN DEMORALITAD BI FUNGAS, MEASUHILA//PLARS: U SET

UP A JOINT MILITAEY COMBATO AFFAIR 7O LE SETIRE FOSHAPI PAPIDLE.

SYRIAN TRODES ARE IN IRAQ FISHIIEG TROS CAMPAIGN AGAINST TRE BURDS.

"1.÷9...

1A,9

SECRET

C.=00 N.s.

---

## Page 7

-SETEER

1- 88n53 0443z

rilar.

ROUTINE

iNio

81421

RITIKEN AYRIA ANO IRAQ. I!

• тили ід

KENS ASSUNES OF ANTON

но то ane ta su

* tutro 20

N MH E1S4011884*

BEATS IN D

CTRON TO & TITRO THIM AR

BOPINI TO CAPITALIE GION DISRATINPACTION WIEH THE IM STION

TAT O PARLA TRANS MERETANOTE. EU MARTES

IS SERIE TO NILS INS BLO LEITEARD TISSO IN JAPARISE VOTIRO

BARITA TO VIN LO NOXE ARATO ANO ACHIVE EY ITOS OTE-TEIRO

O7 TEX NOTUL XNSHXRSZIP XICTSSARY TO BLOCK CONSTITUTIONAL

ATENDAENTO, DESFITE TÃO SOCIALISTS TAMIM NOUERATION, THOCY

(CONF)

....

Riiw...

==".

---

## Page 8

CLASSICER MESSAGE

SRERST

-19.82

ROUTING

01432

81491

10. MOROCCO ALCERIA THE CRASY PYRE BETTREN MOROCCO AND

ALGRRIA BECANY EFFECTIVE ON : AUF THAL & MALIAN OBSERVER REACHED TEL

ACTION POR THO DATS AFTER TAL CLABI-FIAB HAS TO HAVE COMS INTO

DO TANTR BUMFORT NOSPARATORY TO A RESTINE ON THE IAGANTRATTON OR

ATRICAX UTTY, AND TIR POUSTON HINTATENS RAY DOSVINE IN ADDIS

PARATE NOGET YA DAYS, AMARANTAY DO PROGNOS NAS MEN ENE

TRIOSE, ATO VILE) CONTALION LITANIED BY THE CLAST-VIES LORD

IT TO SS IP 1 DIXLITATIIN DONI SIVER TIL THO ABATES.

NONSVES, AND TEX BUILDSE ON BOTE BILES 18 EIDELY TO CONTINUS.

ON THE ALONIAN BOARSTIC FRONT, BEM BRUA ARFORINDSY HAS MET EITH

LIARIES OT THE LASTLIY DISBIDUNTS IN AN APPARENT ESTORT TO

FIRST TRST OF TIE MARTIRA POSTLAE SUREROTA SYNCE 1981, AND MAY

1 ..

rectralis

Cai:, Pic.

---

## Page 9

45545i5

roman:

SOCIETI

-M!?HS

TAL

890753 8+432

"SHA,GEN

CIlE DIR: 81421

"FATB BIGHT-

LEAD TO TIES BELAT-DY OF PAL

ATER THORT'S CONLITION COMRA

MOST CRRNUVICES FETECT TRAS SIS ONIURITION JESTICE MATE, DEtRi

MOHIT O

чи тори ці, За та

PUR LANLY MISTORS

MANY MATY TH

AT TO FAST MATU CAN RATE COL

INTERY LAGNE SEE Ta

AXE METT IS NOT NOT 2 HEARCARNATIOS LE

SOLO LICE ONLONE IN NICO, TY HOUD SUI COTION

BATTS TIMS, IN TERRATININS TO PELL OUT SP MIL MANUNE COALITIOR

BBCAUN 0S BATECTIONE IT IE SUERTIC TOR INE DOGS IN TES CONNIEMI

AS XAY SOTY THI OPRSITION APIES TAR RLECTION. IF IT STAYS IT

VILL DESIRE TEN RAFLACKISIUT CR IRONY, SURE TIE BORT ONINDATIO

SPONSORAN OF TROT A CS SENIZICAT FOOTS'S FATTY DO 207 SEPECT

I LIATE TO IN TUNE SATAZA TRÃN MNLO ITA ONS. MHILE INDLiU SHONS

SIGAS OF SIDIGNINE ELONA FARTHURR. AT COALTION NITHOUT BITTER TEL

ПР ОН УР ТОД ДЕРГАВ ІНСЕРАЯН! РЯ УТАВ! ЧиРРОВ.

SECRET

GAGAM OTHER THA

==::1=

I was itte

---

## Page 10

14-00000

12-37

43:

81401

-PAGE NIFE.

^ LANGELY CIVILIAN CARINET EAS BEEN EPPONTED, BUT TEE MILITARY

¿IBARLE INTEND TO PULU TRA LOIFO DE LOVINTENT. BENERALS OCCUPI

HE POSTS OF DEFENDS, ISCERITE, IS iNCORRATIÓN, AND À MILITARI

EX¡CUTITE COLMTTTIS HEADRO BI MAJOR CANARAL DUONG VAR "BIG" MIRA

I FONTIN TITA SUPREHE EXCUTIYE HIS LEMISLATIVE AUTBORTTT

THE CHARACTER ON A BUPRACATINST, THE EBNERALS TATE ALBRAU! HAD

SUNT. TROUBES BRALITE VITA AMBITIONS MOLITICIANI SOCKETINE FOS

FONTE, AND ANY TREVY ASSET DUE LOBE STLITARY ENO SITE MOT.

MAY CITIZIANS AND CRANBALS ANI JUSRIET AY TE FUGHINEE

USE GP

HAJOR ENMIRAL FON TAST DINE, TAZ IST ATLITARY COVIATOR dE BAICON

AND UTILISA DO NATIONAL SICTRITY, AZ IS CONSIDATED OPTONTUHISTIC,

HIGHLE AISIXIOUS, AND IRRATIORAL: TO D. SIS PORTER SUBOTDYRATES

HATS BURY HANKS SE CORTANDYEY DY THE MILITARY CONFE AREAS SUR-

ROUNDLES BAICON. THE VIET CONC HAVI STEPPED UP SUNIL SCALE

HARASSINS ATTACKS IN TUB DELTA SINCE TRE COUP.

13. GRISCE: THE MIRACE UPAST FLICTION VICTORY DE GEORGE

PAPANDENDES CHMER UNION HA! LEAD TO AN EXTEBSED PERIOD OF

PERITICAL INSTATUTIY IS GRRECE. PAPASTAFOUR, MITH 14D OUT DE•

abread;"

U067 Mr.

---

## Page 11

880453 04 432

INFO

-FRES TRA

CITE SIR..

81421

300 ERATE, IS TETINO TO MCASIZI A SOTUREYENT PÓG FASENTATION TO

FING PAIL ON & RAVISHENRI, '¡BIESE ASLITARY ELADERS XPONTEDLY

HAVE KASS. IT CLEAR THAT THIT MILL NOT TOLERATE MAITICIPSTION BY

142 SINTS: 10-009797 TELLS ITATIC LITT SS' (50-*RATS) /1.

PADARONIDN IN DALYERO TO MUNI ME ATITTUNNE

DO VUIRY HE

SODA NO TORN & TORTIN MAJORITY FATHIZELY PANA

TAN HATTONAL

RADICAL UNION LIFE ALATSY OP POLINE FAS

(YAHAMANLIS

IS LAUR TO DERATE: HURTITANA SEACKELIONS INTOKS AISODIA HIS

FOLIONNIS TO MANTICIAN, AND MELANIEST ILS-BIST TO DETACH 809K

& ISE BY SEE LEE DE CUTERRENT POSITIONS AND FAVORS.

18006009

MILITARY IRANDRO AÃ LIABLY TO TAKE A LAMERR BOLE BY MATINO THEAR

AS AGAINST ANY ALRANGEHENY TRA" FOULD LEAT ON COSMUNISTS. THE

PALACE'S DECISIVE ROLE IN ARNOVING TUE CRISIS NAY TEXPORARILY STEM

-:?i

S ?.

:.:

--..

actres derred

14950-12

---

