# 104-10236-10060

## Page 1

104-10236-10060

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optonol)

FROM:

Files

wvostier

10, (Officer designation, room number, on

wilding

PH/Gaeiting

2.

DC/ PH

3.

C/PH

1.

USE UNLY

• CONFIDEl AL.

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PTeNSION TNO

DATE

RECENTO

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

ANTWARDED

DATE.

24 7el 63

COMMENS IN a ena octo colom our commano

пo whom.

cue-

7.

3.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

1-82

Cos

2/15

с/ст

c/Pio

3/04

½/47.

3/,

HAR

1 1953

1 Mir

Bugging tir so

ine

Beli

thi:

-Re the cable

o tatt we had

610 "FaTonas I SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASS!FIED

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CONTACT:

Argolto MARTINEZ (fOrMOrly AMRAYON-1), Interproter

AMSIGH-3

PLACE:

Howard Johnson's Rostaurant, Dixlo HIghway

TIME:

1600-1730 hours, 24 Fobruary 1963

PURPOSE: Discussion of Capturo of 8 Cubang

REFERENCE: WAVE- 4960

As a follow-up to reforonco, the caso officor contreted

Argollo MARTINEZ, formerly AMRAYON-1,

of tho. 30th Novembor Movement

to find out what

Information ho might bo ablo to add to tho incident

discussed in the roference.

MARTINEZ" account follows:

On 4 Feoruary 1963 & friondly Sigma skipperod by a man named

Juar Cit left Mani with tro crommon unknown to MARTINEZ and the

following men who were destinod for Ellow Cay and who wero to eventually

Infiltrate Cuba in the name of the 30th Novombor Movement:

Eleno OVIEDA AJVal'Oz

Juan REYES Morales

Eumelio VIERA Olmedo-

(Incidentally, the aforemertloned trio plus Imtlio

PEREZ Fornandos and

Dardo FERRER were led by one Luis AGUIAR.

All of them except OVIEDA

harl belonged to a group tighting for Thorndiquo "Tondiques".

They

had been on their way to Miami to socure assistanco and had become

stranded at, Elbow Cay when their boat sank.

The 30th Novembor crew

of the yAsP met the group by chance at elbow cay, rocruited them ano

cold AGUIAR the 30th Novenver would infiltrate his iroup and resuoply

them 1n exchango for AGUIAR's allogiance to the 30th November.

the case of OVIEDA, MARtINEZ suld ho boltoved OVIEDA was urrested

with Patrick HEMMINGS for training on No-Name Koy and Joined AGUIAR'S

group after OVIEDA's release from fall.)

The friendly Sigma left OVIEDA, REYES and VIERA on Elbow

Cay with camping supplies,

weapons and

equipment and "went to fish"

in the arca near Cayo Anguila.

In the meantime, the WASP captained

by MARTINEZ left Key Largo 9 February 1963 with

additional supplies

and equipment, Luis AGUIAR,

Emilio PEREZ Fernandez and Dario FERRER;

who were to join their compatriots at Elbow Cay.

While the WASP was at. Elbow Cay 10 February,

buzzed and circled by two jet fighters for approximately 15 minutos

SECRET

---

## Page 3

4-00000

SEC

RET

2.

at about 1500-1500 hours.

The Jots then doparted in a s'W. direction.

MARTINEL argued with a crow momber that the Jets wore Anerican but

tho crowman insisted that they wero MIG's becauso he said he had soon

many of them in Cuba.

Lator, the crow of the WASP sightod a boat on

the horizon.

Thinking it was the friendly Sigma roturning from

Anguila Cay, the

wasp went out to moot her.

lowevor, the boat they

not wag a lobser boat "(i'nu) ESTRELLA" (believed Blanca Estrolla)

captainind by Domingo MARTINEZ Alvarez nka

"Mingolo" and crowed by

Juan MORALES Pascual, Armando MORALES Pascual and Agustin VIZCAINO Pino.

Those men were unknown to the crew of the WAsP but were recogulzod by

tho crow of the friendly Sigma which subsoquently reported meeting

tho lobster bout after tho departure

of the WASP.

According tơ MARTINEZ,

the lobster boat was bona fide and had not engagod in oporational

activities to his knowledge.

1.

Aftor the departure of the WASP,

to Flbow Cay to check on the throe infiltroes before their own roturn

to Miami.

Upon tho arrival at Elbow Cay, the friondly Sigma sighted

two Cuban Sigma

boats

"patrolling" at Elbow Cay on 12 February 1963.

Whon the friendly Sigma roturnod to Miami, the crew reported to MARTINEZ

that on 12 February thoy saw tho 3 infiltroos which they loft at Elbow

two Cuban Sigma boats patrolling the wators noar Elbow Cay and fris.

Cays, obster boat anchored about a milo from Elbow Cay.

The 3 Infiltrees wero instrued - and expocted - to ronain

on Elbow Cay until the WASP could return with an intermediate craft,

without which the infiltration would be impossiblo.

Further, the

Infiltration point was not known to any of the 3 infiltrees,

the guide who was aboard the friendly Signa.

triond Stem depart Mani with a cowo sent puny lenandez

¿Dario FERRER and supplies and weapons for 20 men"" The guide for the

Infiltroes and Luis AGUIAR,

tho tean leader,

remained in Miami attompting

to obtain an intermediate craft which the wASP would then trke to us

The news of that Castro had caught 8 men was received

to the mon, Castru captured W ya.

Tue 4042 to that be so detonator, cine 18o, appeo ina to gor

100 pounds of Pantolite, foods and medicinos.

0438222232E5

ille.

all the elements necessary

+ st

Theodore D. Ostro

PM Case Officer

SECRET

---

