# 104-10112-10443

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10112-10443-2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE - A

INTERVIET PROCESSING SHEET

PD

ROUTING

5015

Subjects

Lumin

dvice received reveals that the subject

person 18

scheduled

for overseas travel as indicated below -

Title &

Departure SOme 54

Grade

Dato

Office &

Destination

жидок

Division

FEL

$13-2

Passport

Type & No.

Cover

Return

PCS

PRELTAINARS

PROCESSING - A review of this file and the above information revealss

See below

/

No special briefing topics

or

See below

[No special oover problems

or

Requires debriefings on as circle

No special debriefing by other

or

CRYPT

See remarke

No special badges or credentials or

REMARKS

Date of Polygraph

liph. 1953

-

-

-

INTERVIEW

On the indicated date subject was interviered on the following points:

1.

2

3.

Security regulations in general.

Travel Precautions (to carry nothing identifying him with CIA).

Cover Story (nature of cover; adequacy or prior briefing; possibility of

inconsistencies; briefing of

spouse).

40.

Personal Affairs (proper handling of bank account, credit accounts, foriarding

of mail).

Personal Correspondence (no mention of CIA in letters to and from Subject).

Personal Conduct (e. general good behavior, b. no black market or currency

-transactions, ç. no undue curiosity in natives in his area, do 1o attempts

to identify or approach other CIA personnel in area except for official

business and through official channels).

Other Travel (only official travel in or through Soviet controlled areas).

Others

ACTION -

Security debriefingby the undersigned

completes action necessary in this case.

The following were obtaired from

subject and forarded appropriately

for disposition.

I subject was referred to the follow-

ing for the indicated additional

briefing:

or

/ Subject was permitted to retain the

following for turn-in at a later

date.

By:

Dates

Other w.

Quie

2100

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Security Information

MILITARY PERSONNEL DIVISION

18 TuN 54

MEMORA DUM FOR:

SUBJECT

TORGANIZATION AND STATIONS

sor a perlod of approxinatoly a 115-

FE - Division has operational control of subject. MPD is carrying

him in a "PD" status. Date and time of departure: 18 JUN 54

-18.00.

HOWARD J. CAQUELIN

colonel,

USAF

CHIEF, MILITARY PERSONNEL DIVISION

Badge Munber P- 44/.

surrendered Saunst

SECRET

Security Information

---

