# 104-10440-10087

## Page 1

1104-10440-10081

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

23 NOV 1953

NINORANCJM FORE

SUBJECT:

Director

Pederal tiresu of Investigation

AssassInItIOn of President Hennady- Pegorted

Anonymous TeLephone Message

1. The following onble from the CIA Statton ta London vas reported

orally to HT. Bamel Papich st 0950 an 23 Hoventer:

2. The Britlah Sevarity Seivice (MI-5) has reported that at

1605 CitE on 22 Hovanber an anonymous telephone call vas made 1n

Cambridge, Ingland, to the senior reporter of the Cambridge Hevs.

caller sald only that the Cambridge leus reporter should call the

American inksasy in london for sone big nons and than bung up.

3. After the word of the President's death vas received the're-

parter informed the Cambridge police of the anonymous call and the

police intored MI-5. Toe importent point in that the call vas made,

secarding to his calculations, about 25 minutes before the President

vas shot. The Cambridge reporter had saver received a call of this

kind before and MI-5 state that he 1a know to then as a sound and loyal

person vith no security recare.

4. MI-5 noted that sintlar anonymous phone calle of a strangely

colnaldental nature have been received by persons in the U. K. over the

past year, partioularly in conneotion with the case of Dr. lard.

5. The British Security Service stated 1ta desire to assist la

every gossible my on any follow-up Investigations required vithin

the United Kingdon.

FOR THE DEFUTY DIRECTOR (FIANS) :

Document Number 1517-1093

for FOlA Roview on

FEB 1978

CaCI-

Distribution:

Or1g. & 1 - addressee

1 - C/CI

1 - C/CI/SIG

1 - CI/Liaison

SANES ANGLETON

1 - C/CI/REA

1 - WE/BC

DDP/WE/BC/m Caswell: rn (23 Nov 63)

-i.

---

