‘104-40220-40131 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

poets _

QUPMONTAL ill 736 74

ornament Ho ~

UNITS STATES GOVERN.

Memorandum . Sa ot

to; Memorandum For the Record DATE: 3 March 1966

wa B

SUBJECT: Poundat on for Orphans in Greece, Ines

a
i yrom : Virginia L. Thorne
|

i

|
i

> O-.
S..
LD,

1S 72OEY 5 me ourject organization is an American organization, founded 1 whe by.

‘ X [dliian Xarika, a US citizen of Greek extractioa, whose address as of i960-#as 250
West 57th Street, New York City. The eddress of the organization in 1951 was 11
Bruadvay, New York City.

2. In 1953, the organization's President, Mr. (fou) Jackson, requested recog-
nition of the organization from tne US Department of State as a fully authorized
voluntary foreign aid group. The Pureau of Internal Revenue recognized the organ-
ization as a charitable organization as early as 1951.

3. A check by OS of Department of State records, disclosed that State requested
security name checks on the orgentzation's officers. No derogatory information was
developed. Files of 0S disclose scex slightly derogatory information on Lillian



eo

: ees

\

Chief, Personnel Security Division, 0S 26 Ostoder 1953

Mr. Willies Osterns

Chief, Contact Mivisinn,
aie) S- TREE
Lawsoa, Will Les =< United States Delegate to AL] African People ta
rference

1, A publie relations man concerned primarily vith foreign
socounta reporte that after the defeat of Mohamed Mahgoub in
his bid to becaxs Fregident of the Ui assembly, Ibrahia Anis, the
Sudanese tp United States, coamented on soso of
the “craokpst® ty a Willion Lawson, Anis felt
that Lawson hed sua fory peculiar ideas, Lawson hed hier :
that Mahgoud eonl# sioly have expected to win
eloction since all tis/{rflucatial nevspapers in the tateed States
are Jowish-owned ead Wauld be opposed to Nahgoub's election,
Apparently, Lewseo is c ‘pyblia relations man who-has formed an
organization te coutuct cinh basiness for African countries.

M3
2. Laveen, seeording to,data, vill bs one of the United
Btates dalegates to the 41) African Peoples Conference to be held
in Accra froa $-12 Becanber 1! Our contact suggested that in
view of Subjects viewpoint, ho Nast be individual to vatch
with, regard te tats eenference. xe)

3. This isformation has besa ex.

Any queeticas pertaining to (coaseentua should be
aint Cis Rhee Sms

NS

.

BM. ASSCRAFT

vor ad 7 EG

Source: Edvard ©. Moses

ce


‘oan

font ; a SECRET ae F- Fn25-BY

WAS-5.:8-68
Dircetor, Doratie Comtact servico 7 Octobor 1968
| ATE 8 Support, stare
Caioe, Toostagtes Piola ortiss
Abak Marin Pando, yrion i
~ 7-26-84 Z

3. C/d RxOatdoy of Haghingtos Fold Oftica § October 1968 received
pee rons cll fre bio contest Ravara K. Koos of Hosa International,
Jases Buble relatiazs consw tant, vICiUhEG hi Cot un hour Intoe aed
who furaiohed tho follevtug informstion.

2. Bot cam corning Koos bod received a phone call, ond loter
vioitod 0% the kam of @ “Foreign Barvica Officer, mot on duty vith
Sho croo, m special Oosigment, aot political, for the last coveral
yeoro°. Go ues Yercign Sorvieo Officer, “vith lifetire ouperierso
vite Coop ond Miedlo Rost,” go "alcost o private acbassy to ck of hic
Belowso of tho area.” Bo had aot vated to usg his official State chan-
malo fer reasons Afeh "will &o obvious fra the Selioving”., Be anked
Moao &f ho could @o\ivor the portimat @nta to o representative of tha
cA. Reso thought Co scald but Ceguhile put daa call to am waren

PRS Of Wo dices Usted fa bi

& EEneh Slates that ba io tho locioe, er exo of the lonéorn,
8 0 GED O wovalution er esp d'otat im Syrin with tho ox.

Dosaiag
Fart of tho “utes clamav of tho Eyring Arry, oad Of Saudi Ambin®, ‘
Of cru. Bo wanto tho US Govaurm—mt te hnoy ef bic plans, proambly

SECRET



; HE SECRET

HAS-5:.6-68
e2e 7 Catobor 2668

. 42.0 Gaarel My, Poo that viea tho cvest cseurn this covorcemat
WALL Bat havo Go loco tir? earming the ideutity of tho aaw Syrian
Govoramat lecforo”, o8112 quoting Moog. Daaiach’ "vests apthing
Goro", at Icast ot this tira.

5. Dandocad nicurusts tho State Dopartoomt and inosisto oa
Calling his story te tho CIA. Bile despite tho statexant by Dandechs
thot ks kmouo ond lites cur surreat Arbascodor in Gaudi Arobia.

Coithor the Yeroige Sorvice Officer mantiowd, nor Koss, {0 supposed
to bave cffored Panduchi any ceocurogement in his enterprise other tha
to cndeavor te sosvey es expressics of his iaterest to tho CIA. Moca, eonaceaans
@f ecwurca, oxpoeto mo reply fren Colley. On the other baad, ho may. a
Eset Dandachi.§ Cstebor vith rogard to other business. If oo, ho v3al
qropsrt to Cakloy Bin inprocafeas. Damdoehi alco exprooccd imtcrost
40 talnieg to “Coxgrocsms Raccoll of Bor"; Voss thieks thio 40 0
G@svicd roforars to Bomter Buscell of Goonrin.

6 By epinsiteces Catdcy opetn o sou Mimites lntor vith lash
Vesbara af BOftiach nso vio i —dintely talogbomad Jako Baty of DP.
DSty On Gara Coloptessd Cakoy veo gave bin Bocdschi's Uoshineten © :
Aéiro., Ra Keilerties tao Ct Fegy cowl etateet’ Cour anefriar. ‘i
Comtalaly EosieeA ao TOM desc to Bay. cad :

Te UO cessiésen tho Caetar elocod to thin effies omogt, 9 ROSA, -
8-7 0 cgplectezy Mapa Gres Faso ba cAletd te pry 3 car i '

Po. Jo SARRIE)

crn)

SEGRET Boaes it

erwin 22



TABI -66
Birector, Dazestie Contact Service 3h domuary 1366
sets: Intemational Mivisics (Arricen beak)

@aief, vashington Office

Remrd K. Moos Interdst in Afriea/Proposea Koctings with
Flnseco Ministers for Parwamo Interuntional Cola Company

AiDPCEY

2. Edvanl K. Mose 16 an old courne: of the Moshingica
Yield Office, Raving boca a good source oa Africa arMtra. |
vien aio yublie relicions fire pertocieally meprescnted
caerming mations’ embassies. Ia reevuy years car: of these
ectivities were reduced end Mocs is now serving cu Deputy
Assistant Director (Yor Publie Relations) of the wRite Bouse
Coumittce on Civil light, 1800 G Street, GW, ccohinguon, D.C.

2. At Miu euggestion, Sheridan lmened vith Moco oa 27.
demmry 1966. It we epparent that Loco considers Mo present
essigment comparatively uninteresting and ic looking towards
the next move. Bs afd nnt axcetly cay it, bat he sight bo
receptive to o consultant o essigment with CIA on Atrienn
effelro. Ke motectly adsite, cupportod by kis long timo assise

tent Tro. Julia Callini, that be io one of the fov U.S. qqerms -

ea the area, one vio bas considereble Sirst-nane conseetions
with Africen political leodaro. Be did secaxgany thea Vireo
President \Hixon on his vour of Africs ond vould oot be averse ta
Going the cca when ViccPresigant rphrey may take tho eae
route,

3. In oddition to this, Muos my tehe e trip of shout a
fsnth's duration to miny of the Africon countrico in February 1966.
Uc sald that lest weck former Govermp: Hike ée Calle becane presi-
Gent of Porgaamt Lnernotienal Coin Comeny, Columius, Ghio. ft
. 4s tho largest Grgenization devoted to coimge ef all Binds for
collestors. De fallc is particularly interested in [int seta end
dup is in process ef working oct arrengmmocnts with variow foreign.
pansies ‘governinats vo hondle mist cote of thelr codmege oa an ereluaive
ts distrivutorehip beaia intermmetionally. Tho coumtrics wuld ost

eetumlly cost US@ te produce.’ Lego about tuanty percent coraxisoe
Soa te Fauranount, tho national treasuries woul] rteip the profits.
Xt cypeare that this pages amy bo Laving ebviows oppeat to com,
Vincace Minieters cat Ov Srlle,
+ Geked Kuas to oceampmy hin fer

E

£8
i
E

7 _ 7 - Fe F-26-8¢



istercst Bosowsa af
wit Cimento ce. etter Afrieca cablact

Pe So Ghariésg

eet exioe| Viol Ofsies

veh



NTI AOE AS nape enes ites en 5 oo aetna Sta wee asad

ie Wigteestesceni 7 ae

A: TICS
a Yoso, Mose Intarnstional Corporetion, Miblie Relations toreatiete

Santagton cerns SIGE L  - |
qa ° Be ms Gainey rs aA Was-352-65

20 Pay 1965

%

Cuiet, Contact Division - eel
Attn: Support Brench : i

a eS

| :



108235265
hoy 1gés

AMICS) Mand K Mans, tos Tatorant toni, Coxporntion, Tublie
Relatgers Opectnlisto

do De Galdey of the Neshington YielA Office
Lunchooa 23 Agrit 105 at Lecor House for Vr, Katvard I, Yoa0
of Moos Intorvaticre) Corporation, public relations opccial tote
AMs_cagrideatiel castgtent Misa Julfa Collint, end
of US Station, Tho purpose was tw Jiseusa Lear Cary
diplentic exmasto vith GIG.) da vious

8 feso ia eu ployed moro or ees #2 ¢42 00 0 pubRio
rolatiea) exandtwat gor tho Office 08 Leunocde Cooporation.
Rowover, RO ot4l2 rasmtatns cana Atplerstte coutara,

3e Cedesa Infor Unley by talegnons 19 thy 1965, ehad
Rhowo cggascatly io co e=odinte interest 9a Uko part of WY
Btakles to amloie Lov, Hovover, thoy ¢9 wih to inup bin
"$9 so0oRw" fer posofhie Avturo uso fa extortaiming Africana,
COpACIOWY Tuba, AIVLertd» Aay owes crmtacts vi to mts



i
}
i
t
i
i
t

15 May 1962

2. Pronk gheridan ofvised thet he had received
request from Hed Rolnaa of WH Division, who in tum
iad received roquest from Tou Parrott af tbe Waite
house, en fomerly of CIA, requesting thet Sheriéen

Pim S
merttes's ecorerning a tee

2. Sieriéen suggested that « case be assigned
‘to the matter, anf he woulf ebait a report. the
hove case nuxber we posted to Sheriden.

gist

piuigserondeeassaaer jaropeto"t


te er

Fie

OY AGARIDE : le 7265 4
"Office Memorandum - UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

tam ne room ws. 88

To * Chief, Contact Division - OATE: & Jamuary 1960

FROM = chief, Washington Office
pea Sci he cF 7

Si bec heat Julte Cellini = Contact vith Rumenten Finance Kintster

ape) at
at “Late-November 1959, Julia cetlint, Assistant to
8, Public Relations, attended a dinner party where
she van intvoluced to: the Deputy Finance Minister of Ruzania,
This individual was in Washington for consultations with the

International ICA, State, etc. He asked-her what he
should see in We on, and she recommended the usual places,

plus Charlottesville. aX
Ao
2. The’ following she was invited to a farevell

dinner for the Rumanian Cultural Attache, whom she bad previously

wet. The Deputy Finance. Minister came up, remembered her name

and said that he had seen everything she had recomended, including

4 Weekend at Charlottesville. He hed taken along his superior,

the. Fitiance Minister, and at the party, introduced him to kiss

Cellini, The conversation was in French, although the Minister :
- did understand Englis!

: 3. The Minister asked her vhat else to see during their
remaining week, and she recommended the Monastery, Mt. Vernon,
etc. He thereupon asked her to accompany them to lunch, and dlie
explained that she could not, that she vorked. On Priday, the
Minister called her to accompany them on the trip to Mt. Vernon
on.Saturday. She did not wish to do so, but could not grecefully .
get out of it, On Saturday it was raining and the trip was called.
off when she said she could not join them on Sunday. The Minister
called her once more before leaving Wastiington.

: 4. ‘This memorandum 18 written for the record of the fact
that both the Minister and Deputy Minister of Finance had shown
considerable interest in Miss Cellini, in the event that it might
be of any use at some future date. :

eee Ae

| Vas


Hy
i

=

ormang rom ne 4

Office Mong andi

to ¢ ‘tate Contact Division

Attn:

7ROM + Chief, Woohington Office

ADEN mm oe

~

SURIECT: Vacancy for Secretary in imbassy of Guinea

Ambassador

fe WA BE

ard Ky tified this ofttce today that the
Toa cuinea is in the process of setting up his

imbassy in Weohington, having returned to the U.S. last week.
He 18 looking for a thancery, an enbassy, and a residence, as

well ac his bas:

2.

¢ staff,

He requires a female secretary, vhon he states must

be attractive, with shorthand abilities tu French and Lnglish.
She oust ‘not be a French citizen or have hed employment by the
French Government, Her salery would be in the vicinity of $400

& month,

3.
loceting

tax free. A white woman is preferable.

Moss said that the Ambassador has had difficulty in
such a person and hes asked Noss to help, so that anyone

we wished could properly be introduced through this means. Moss
pointed out that, since the girl would be the first exployee of

@ small staff, she vould attain a very important position, He
felt that this might be significant in that Frime Minister Toure -
416 politically "on the fence”. Toure himself will be in Washington

on a State visit on 25 October 1959.

h

Please inform this office of any reaction to this

suggestion.

LI]

tee ow chet

Ge Ome a hay wt Cae

«renee
& tw Sey
wood nage

eae“ = Uy

Week cope pone

at Og
ak

~ buf wo

L

eel Fa Wot

fr 4 3b ey
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE. 11 September 1959

Ci



“J AGSY

—— me :

SECRET
: :
Chief, vestington office” : 19 decestber 1958 cy
_—~ fe \
Chiat, Goatact Divisten (va/s) ere ty j naeey {
. ef) ( s-
i

See a

1. PP Btoff desires to mke on assegement of Lillian Karika,
Bince she night do of oparaticnl we. Her name wa brought to
PP'a attention by 00-4-3,117, 501 (WASH-11755), yrovided by your
rea eta DODGE SY
<. Any Gata thot you con provide oa eubject’s personality,
e@htation, truits, palitical vicwn, ete. would ds helpful to FP 7
for mking such an ascenament. ‘



- FOR: THE EMBASSY

FROM: EDWARD K, MOSS, Inc. -
1025 Connecticut Avenue, N. We
Washington 6, D. C.

OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN

. HOLD FOR RELEASE:
= AFTER S: .M., E.S.T.
THURSDAY, NOV. 27, 1958

aed .
STATEMUNT OF THE AMBASSADOR
OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN

Dr. Ibrahim Ania, Ambassador of the Republic of The Sudan, today
reaffirmed his country's friendship for the United States in a statement issued on
the eve of his departure for Khartoum, scheduled originally for early this month

but delayed until tomorrow becaiise of the formation of a new government in The

Sudan earller this month,
a Dr. Anis' statement follows:

“'T would like to thank the American public and especially the American
press fer the thoughtful consideration with which they received and appraised the
news of the recent developments in my country.
hasty conclusions and make comparisons with events in other countries which would
not apply to The Sudan, the relations between our countries have not been strained
they might have been through misunderstanding and we remain today good friends.

"The Government of my country was changed because partisan strife
between political parties threatened to bring about a demoralization of our people
and a lose of confidence in our ability as a nation to preserve the principles of free-
dom and independence to which our people are determined to adhere.

“A government of stability, including both military id civil leaders.
acting with the approval of the spiritual leaders of our country, ha jumed respon-
sibility to the people to resolve our internal problems and to maintain cordial rela-
tions with-all other countries as befitting a free and independent, democratic Repub-
lic, It has assumed the responsibility in a peaceful and orderly manner without im-
pairing the rights of dissident elements or freedom of movement of any of our citizens
or visitors to our country. It has assured complete freedom of the press. It has
pledged itself to be bound by and give full effect to the agreements into which the
Republic of The Sudan has entered since our independence nearly three years ago.

(MORE)

Thanks to your refusal to jumpto -

| anaeee Y

7
|
|
|


see ean eretneveneotsseortyetamantttiay

“Y give thanks for all the wonderful friends I have made here,

-2-

"In doing this my country has not becn moved by external pressures
or by any feeling of unfriendliness towards other countries, On the contrary, our
Prime Minister, El Ferik Ibrahim Pasha Abboud, and his Government will work
to improve these relations on the basis of mutual respect, friendship and mutual

interest,

“Paramount among the problema of relations with other countries
to which our Government willaddrews itscl{ will be to give expression to the cone
viction of every Sudanese that it is of utmost importance to bring about a fair
division of the waters of the Nile which flow from our country into Egypt and which
are of great importance to the economic development of both nations,

"Our new Government has now been recognized by virtually every
other country, including your own, As ny nation’s representative in the United
States aince our independence I huve sccn the steady growth of closer relations
and greater understanding between our countries, I am made confident by the re-
cent evente in my country ard the sympathetic response to them by your country,
that these cordial relations will endure and, indeed, can now be made even more

strong. dee svennunrais
"It is my pleasure that my diplomatic career began and ended with

my service as Ambassador to the United States, It is a happy coincidence that
my last day in the United States is Thanksgiving Day, For me it is a day on which
It is a day on which
I congratulate all Americans for the friendship they have extended to me and to my
Although 1 am returning to private life, 1 want them all-to know I shall
fe my efforts to bring about increasingly close relations between our

KX copy of this material ie filed with the Department of Justice where the re- za
quired statement under the Foreign Agents Registration Act is available for

public inspection, Registration does not indicate approval’ or disapproval of

this material by the United States Government,

f .

Baer



it
Chief, Contact Pivision
Atta: Nre. Statecn

2. Moao is certain that the Larson rofesred to in our
wemorandua of 22 Geptexber 1958 ie Willian Laveen, Moss beard
about him through the Sudanese Ambansodor who bed commented that
Lavpen'a views vere bad for international relations. Ali thet
Mose knove is thst Lavson io o US Begro, vbo lives in
Philadelphia.  ~BaoyaS asda Sehndeniea ne cert heehee ee
ineloted ta our Geytenber nenorantas.

¥ : 3. Please closs this caoe for the Washington Office, pera

CONFIDENTIAL



-

Te 98 xov 1958
Cet, Voshincton Offies : ! ?

¥. J. Sheridan
Chief, Comtact Diviatos, area

57965 7 por
Bes Cave GB%6 / Willies Lesson

————— ee
Your mecoruntes Gated 22 toytender 1950, subjest es above

2 :
ER/A, DD/P, 1s taterested tn on individual named Jams

leon, tho may bs the eo percon as described ia wofcrence..

Janso Leween lives ia Boy Tors City. It wuld be appreciated

healt cel ceaal tere Aceh reece a hnectcaneen)
Wilton Lemmon fron your ovarce, expecially/in regard to the
possibility thet ViRiten ext Jano Lasoo
sno,
ee

‘3. M. ASHCRAP?

) tee emaeey


oe : a ; - 7Ab9$

21 oct 1358

. Dear ter aren ee
aecomta reyorto that after the dafent of Hokmew vabhgoub
his <4 to boocms prosifent of the UN Acsambly, Shahi Antoy
‘the Fudanose fushessndor to the United States, ecrmented on cans
Of the “crackpot” views expreanc’ by a ¥ilitem lavcon. Ania
felt tist caveon had som very peculiar ides. leawon bed
stated thet lahgoub could not possibly have expected to win the
UY electicd einee «21 tho influential mwayapers tn the tinited
Gtates sro Jewish cued end vould te opposed to Hahgoul's
eleetion. ibe ptn, raboegt divlid ayrypubpadenpengy-epadigen)
Seemed an oxemntention to confurs gach for Africaa
countricn.

lawson, secording to Ants, vill be ono of the Uxitad
Btatag Galagrtss bo the All Afriexn Fooglos' Goaferame to te
held 1a Accra frees 5-12 Decenter 1958. Oar contact euguested
that in view of Lexweoa's vievpoiat, he might be an inHridwl
00 wateh vith regard to this scstermce,

3. Tite Anformntion vill be forvanted to the Office of
Sacurity.

4k. Any further inqciries pertaining to tts nerosandus
be @trected to Mra. Brirloy Stetem oa Kxtansion 2773.

BB. ARECRAPP
Metributt on: .
Orig. & 1 - Addressee f
1 - Alien Chrono
-WC ‘
l-
oe cof



CONFIDENTIAL, ®
4?

: oe
Chief, Contact Division
aise oe mei all}
Chief, Washington Offices
Willice Lewses yg

he reyorted at length on his activitica with the Sudaneos prior
te, ani after tha election of tha president of the Ud Acoembly.

2. In the rehash after tha defeat of Mohammed Mabgouwd, the

22 Beptesber 1958

Fathoriian/eet

CONFIDENTIAL



72bs¥

: OOe43,117,582 and Tinos/Areson converontion of 15 Deceaber 1958.

1.

We have received a responce to your verln) request of
15 Derenber 1958 for further biogruyhie inforcntion on Lillian

k

» in

She is obviously restless, end
‘tious, with apparently no iuterests outside of work.
i aleays furiously vorking on sone ocheme or oth i
> She: wis recently. involved
it difficulties at the Hotel 2400 in tachingtan

t {8 hard to believe timt sho could have

that
ten bev Tort iar

sélition to ber Gres tu roset,

reat

ae |



.

N-O-T-I-CrE
THE FOLLOWING OOA-S REPORTS CATED BETWEEN
1 OCTOBER 1958 AND 1 JULY 1964 AND CONTRI@
@UTEO BY THIS SOURCE HAVE BEEN TRANSFERRED
TO THE ARCHIVAL REPORTS FILE, DIRECT IN-

QUIR IES TO THE REPORTS OESK OF CONTROL

BRANCH.

t-me-eP -AONROT N-OeT! -ce°



SECRET

tren rugen ime

PROCESS SHEET FOR 0%

10'S COLLECTIONS
7 *cerg in FORMEADS

aitwe 7268
Uete eZ ode

ig MecToow 7 waLeapanUE|
“pavers 7 onceve
van .

on

Tom 9g use pnrvious

:

Sesion eeeeieae Seeeceatiei

uo FE


a
OARS TAM KG Gn

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY .

he Trpanoge tows tle

Of me Un teed Sites thin tg manny
ton iy probed by “tow, .

int sntormanen wilecting the Reoi-unnl Of
cn ony smn $0 UR wnouthoreed

2nd 794, the orem atren oF revelion

= COHPIDENTIAL

REPORT NO, 0- B~321/25577-O+ :

COUNTRY gudan .

:

!

{SUBJECT Sudanese Anbaocadors to US and Ut OArE DIS 28 Dea

4 Ascess Recent Government Chango in

H Sudan NO PAGES 2 :
REFERENCES

DATE OF Ootover - Novenber 1964

INFO. - : Ho i

PACER Occober - November 1964 : : :
<Q ‘

DATE A TY
Tmig tf UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE’ US citizen, who has close relations with the tvo Sudanese diplomte.
He 16 a specialiat in the public relationa of new African countries

vith the US.

1. The Sudanese Ambascadora to the US and to the UN are both quite
happy with the recent change in government in their country. They
strongly discount Communist influence and strese the continuity and
etadllity of most Personnel and of government policies.

2. The dasie underlying ooue vhich provoked the change vas corruption ~
gentering around the “axis” of the Deputy Defense Minister and tho
Mintoter of Foreign Affairs. President Abboud himself was on several ;
occasions ‘so “fea up" with the situation that he resorted to the H
"Nehru tactics" of absenting himself and threatening resignation. He
aid not dare fire the tw) Ministers. Eventually others became 60 eee . u
unhappy with the situation that they took 1t out of Abboud's ‘hands, oo :

3. ‘The Communists lave hadly overplayed their hand, with a power play far
beyond their real strength. The failure cf their effort to provoke a - :s
coup d'etat by announcing without foundation an amy move to assume
power, merely displayed their weakness and thus foreclosed for some tine
at least any possibility of their exerting great influence.

4. It 48 hard to judge which of the two political parties will be victorious
in the forthcoming elections but the odds appear to favor the UMMA. In
any case,-with either party in power, and with the interim government at
present, every sign points to contiauity of policy and of stability. Instruc-
tions to the tvo diplomts mentioned are in this category. Other evidence
is found in the continuing normal procedure with routine diplomatic trans-
fers. The new Poreign Minister is at least as pro-US as his recently
ousted predecessor. He probably leans much more to the US.

end

a care et canna

: : 8
CONFIDENTIAL sia
a
a

~nuveuw

ARREO wero eleanor ueeig rene



SECRET
LWHEN FILLED IN?

1 wieitct an ARCA

Ho huet-Bolyny Seeking Orientation of Gulzon to West
SSB tie, deb nh aps» y

Quines/Ivory Coast

€ COMAGT (Nome, Tile, Ovoasinaise, Addins or “Y Humber
Some a9 source.

SOURCE home, Tile, Orpra.sstua, Addrome oT Number)

Edward K, Mous

Meward Chase & Edvard K, Moss International, Tne.

Washington, D.C.

7 SUB KOUNGE QVame, Tide, Orguniaation, Addrecal
Hichaels
Anst to Bavord K. Koop

Aas

A Teery

CEE Tork MTOR ACLS

o- 7abry

0] < ormerersctiiantont

iota



1 information
TOUTE sock 70nd Poa oy Wont eal te teoeen Scat sees ere "on wcuhonied parton A peniered br oe

suavecT

COUNTRY ‘Quinea/Ivory Coaat i
Rouphoust-Bolgny Seeking Orien' tint of ‘DATE DISTR. 3 July 1962
Guinen to Weot
NO.PAGES
/ REFERENCES
allie Hr

CENTRAL INILLLIGENCE AGENCY

offeching the Regional Cétenin ef he Unde’ Botan within the meaning of the Fipianege tes, fete

CoOnln¥-1-D-KeMeTol-A-L

REPORT NO. OO- p 23,20: 190

" DATE-OF
PACER :
DATE ACG. ak May. 62. i
THIS 1 UNEVALUATED mt ORmation :
SOURCE: «US citizen, public relations specialist. !
i
In recent weeks hia firm has been conducting necotiations with the ;
Arbessador of Guinea regarding possibilities of representing that :
country in the U3.
Share
In recent weeks we have been negotiating with the Guinean Ambassador to
the US, Dr Seydou Conte, regeriing the possibicities of doing some work
for hia government in the US.
During one of thece meetings at the Guinean Extiessy about 14 May 62, -

3.

he

:

5e

moronn

roteeing IS shauarn and higher eahtons ona shew *menndere eunporting statte Mot tu be dussouaated fe consultants, external projects of
cero porconanl on shor trim ante duty (ereapting cudrefuats whe ove earned (ute emicrem of CIA ABC. PBL. Sate or Batons) eaten te
‘Reteronen, CH

fubassator Conte received a telephone call from Houphouet-Bolgny, Pres=
ident of the Ivory Coast, in New York City. The conversation was con-
ducted in French end was’ obviowly o continuation of previous talks
on the same subject.. The tio own were discussing ways, means, and desir=
ability of persuading President Toure to reduce further his connections —

with the Goviet Bloc and to alii his country with the West. i ie

There vas no atterpt on the part of Aubassador Conte to conceal the

tenor of ‘the conversation from my associate in his office. He could
easily haye-taken the call in another room or excused himself tempore
arily. It 46 probable that he wished to be overheard,

We have speculated over why Houphouet-Bolgy negotiated
directly with the ambassador during a visit to the US,
Goubtedly: 49 that Conte has the ear and confidence of Toure and is the
dest qualified penbor of the Guinean diplomatic service, as evidenced

by hia appointment to Washington.

Conte has" indicated to ys that Guinea ts not too pleased vith the type
and quality of ald from the Soviet Bice and has come to realize that the
most stable end significant economic development from abroad since’
independence has teen the US aluminum installation. Conte himself
impresses us as being an African first but very pro-US and West.

-end-

29 AUG saey 8

C-0-N-F-I-D-E-H-T-I-A-L Group 2
Excluded fron autocratic
downgrading & declassification. 4'

BORT SINE! SINS J

mo b1ss6M_aanoaD uimrreD
Dincomination Menited 60 full-time smpterees of CAL TEC ond VET. and. enthin State and Defonen, to the saretngonas companenre other,

te ene aametant Deveoter tor Contre!


F a i a SECRET rs
F CY/HERN FELD IND: 4
Fon FIECD

ELT

aueone

PROCESS SHEET

lowe coLuecrions —{— SARE : FEE i ides aye
7. SURHEET ANG AmEA ie bb RPI p bb ‘
iro + "Radio Campaign for "Alliance for ae

the + Radio Broadcasting Camaign - latin Acorica

'@. CBTACT Wame, Title, Organisation, Address ot 'Y" Number) Z
] Porerd K. Mose - 7aCSY
Amaricon Productions, Ine. “Ae 2aety

eamdeaecs pgs Blgee P26 FS

W, SOUNE Meme, Tile, Organiation, Addiem of Number

TBUSSOURCE Wame, Title, Ordaaleatlon, Addreem)

Prfete[=Tel>
(=fel-leTo

oe [Te l= T TTT fey

Moss 1s still interested in talliing to
sppropriste CIA representative vhother the
Gecision ia pro or con.

Loan - Must be returned 1 Jime 1962

Ease status

PITT emae wevour on tmiscase ves] J of HUTT

a ee ee V2

soe 25 onsorgre reevious SECRET : 2 (oan



SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IND

PROCESS SHEET

Gr CONTACT Wame, Tithe, Organisation, Addeoes or ¥ Number,

Bame a3 source

TW BOURCE Warne, Tifle, Organisation, Addrews oF Y" Number)

Edward Hose
Amerteen Product:
Waohingtan, D.C.

T suBsoURCa Wame, Fille, Oraealestion, Address)

144 orssEMIMATION CONTROL,
1 er

Fug Te TRW
=
xr =

THis ELPORT GESPORTIVE TO REQUIREMENTS FROM (OFFICE OW AGENC)
EXPECT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WITHIN’ GATE

[sol

25 ome ssrvous

(20.41)



4%

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN) ( i

“T¥OR FIELD _USE_ONLY__

PROCESS SHEET 7 7 le ae :
ove corte ons Per Titel? fils

FSORnEET ane Bete

ef Hinmsh to Secretary Herter's Charge, Ghana

© CONTACT Women Tile, Crpamiaaiion, Address ov "Y Numberd

7 RE Wage AF Remar
Howard Chazo & B. K. Kova Intern
1025 Connecticut Aveme, H. We

Washington, D. Ox S 7a ley. add

1 SUB EOUREE Utama, Tule, Grwaisation, Ada

Es
eEXTeA BISSEMINATION CONTROL ours
MAY 08 RELEASED OM HEED TO KNOW TO: a
pissin ora a.
a

ENT

ToirewAL eo
9 :
patie aae eremereTmeE EES

fice Case STATUS
FEO FOREN 1 aUERENTT OH CF OW ACERT

“EAECT RDOITIONAT DFGEMATION WITHIN [DATE

IEET ines aeroet ow twa ca veal eo] 9 Jl
Wsdtitea ii

go G

FORM
ase 25 UM SRTOIOU™

SECRET : 2 oan



: IELIGENCE AGENCY

conaine ntermit.ca atiecnag the Rotonal elena oF one Jated ates within the mes na of the Eapmonaye ues tale
Vo. Ue Sach 703 ond 700, he nonponnen ge reezingy chimban miny mciamer to an wruwine sed penam pra ed ty Nowe .

C-0-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-b

COUNTRY Ghana ag REPORT NO. 00- 323,149,973
SUBECT —Rasetion of Nerumh to Secretary OATE DISTR 1k Octover 1960
ieedeclaramhete NO. PAGES a
REFERENCES, :

OATE OF Week of 1 Oot 6
INFO.

nace Week of 1 Oct 60

THiS 15 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION,
US citizen, public relatjons specialist.

SOURCE:
Source's firm specializes in publicity for foreign governments and industries.

ls During the sessions at the United Nations (“week of 1 Oct 607 I ves in
frequent touch vith Komla Agbeli Gbedemh, the Finance Minister of Ghens,
and was able, I believe, to get the true reaction of President Kvame Worumh |
to Secretary Herter's remark lumping Nxrumah vith the Commmists.

2. Gbedemsh told me that Nkrumsh has no personal xegerd whatsoever for
Iamumba of the Congo, but regards him merely as en individual tossed up by
tides - basically “an empty head". dowever, Nkrumah's bedly ’
phrased remarks were intended to convey his rvel views vhich are, 7
to Gbedemab, that the nev countries of Africa mst develop strong netional
government, or else they will revert to regional or tribal chaos; Hirumh,
therefore, feels strongly that the United Nations has given its support to
‘the anti-Lummba fections. Just because it does not like him nor his actions,
thereby furthering « split around the duly ipetalled Prine Minister.

3. Nkrumah's personal reaction to Secretary Herter's remark was one of deep nxt |
end anger. In effect, he nov feels that "if the US does not understand vhat
I em trying to do, to hel with it"! During the past year Nkrumh vas coming
out of his sulk at the US over bis bed press on arrests, ete in Ghana, but this
Fr pee ee on a ee
Soviet faction in his country.

is Brforts vere made to have Nkrumah appear on the. Deve Garrovay television show,

with prepared questions approved by him, to elarify his views on the position
of the neutrals. It war also arranged for hia ‘to be in one of the future ae

‘debates. planned ty BPC, -in vhich he could expound on the future role of non-
African states in Africa. This vould be filmed in Accra, or anywhere he
wished, with on .>ponent.agreeable to him. Gvedemah urged both prospects to
Mxrumh and vas refused flatly, through general annoyance and personal
frustration.

5. Asa sidelight to this matter, I also talked to the prospective Foreign
Minister of Sierra Leone (upon attaining independence) and to several Infians.

ALL expressed shock at the epparent US misunderstanding of whet the Africans -
feel about the importance of strong central governments in the new states.

+ ent -.

mmoan

C -0-N-F-I-D-E-H-T-:

No DISSEM annoap wwireo” frie

Dissemunation limited 10 foll-rme emetapess of C1 ET "and. within State and Detanse, t0 1

moron
DRIES


ing the Rahonal Uetesw of te U-
tornm aneetio nt e

saron ef revelation ef which of ony

\ : COUNTRY hans. Loe REPORT NO, OO~ B-3, 164,656
* SUBJECT Finance Minister Belioves Lact of DATE DISTR, 26 Septemler 1960
i US}5 MLL140a UB Loan WLLL Sin Nenana é
to to USER : NO.PAGES =
i ACFERENCES

f CATE OF
: Ne. 13 Aug 60

"RACE & iq faa :
: PASLACG.13.tus. 62 —_—-——_-—-- S's UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SRSSSSSSagca IT
5! Sourct: US edtteon, public relations specialist. :
Souree's fim opectulizes in publicity for foreign goverments and
industries.

{fin tho sixth line of parocreph one this reports reads US}104 mi Liion
but should read US$84 million. Please rake the correcticn on your

copy sf :
é = end =

ee

Jeserve parvonnal om short tetim active duty (except
Tiiten parmuaron of the erifsnating office hae heen ebteined through te asmatant Directas for Ce


SECRET

Finanee Hinister Balfeveo Lack ef US$5 Millica US
Leen Will Tarn Kxrvash to USER

Wo Boar Thegp pin fyvssstation, Addrocre F Namie
Rivard Ke a. pei aal edie a
Howard Chase & Edward KE. Mosa International, Inc.~
1025 Connecticut Avemue, BH. W.
Washington, D. C. ae

Tpaniaation,

EETAA DIBSEMINATION CONTROL
AY BE RELEAGED OW WEED TO KHOW TOL

vomu

ue SaErreETInErrEEE AGUS ore
oo 25 MSR Ut SECRET : 2 wos



SECRET
OWHEN FILLEO IND

scuameaaneg <I TE
nee
ontice
- —

Conversation with Lev PD Rnalianov, Chief of Security
Bectica, Ui Gocrotarial (USER)

exren oresEMiNaTiON COMTBOL
(WAY #8 RELEASED ON NEED TO BROW TOL

Us previous
‘corrron



SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

Comente of Finance Minister Desai om Box-ay apd Calcutta
Pood Biote/January Blectious in Kerala (India)

G. CONTACT ame, Tile, Urvanisetion, Addvors of YT Nemaart
Samp as source
ee
oe A 7268Y
——

1025 Connecticut Avenuo, H.W.

70 OFTiCE_CASE STATUE
EVO MLQUIEEMENIT FROM (0

TAPECT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WITHIN DATEL,

TT PINAL REPORT OW THiS CASE



ao - SECRET rs
(AHEN FILLED IN) 4

fe 22684

ron nen USE ONLY

Indication of Strained Relations Bstveen Covernmonts of
Ghana amd Ouinoe/Cenvarsat ion vita Koala A Obedesoh,
Ghepsien Finance hinister (Guinea/Ghana/Liberia)

Public Relations
1025 Connecticut Avenue, HH.
Washingtons DG.

Seuou Touvns
Tet Bovsacer Dinice

Tin Senet cam aT

Use pacvious SECRET

aoe 25) MENS

Fam utaoguAait ay OL OMT



ue

‘
SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IND

}
PROCESS SHEET , -
For i

Boeall of Carlos Pome es Axbecsadar to 03/Appointient



i

|
:
i
i
3
|

D1 sterer E] connoentian J” 72 oF

[C7] top seceer

INDIVIDUAL IN; ORMATION REPORT EVALUATION

B_Qe5_59

Thang Ape
Col Attas Mary Kretuer 2273
+ CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Foe AD Bet ay THE OM
PRUE RIE Uae ae
ci re Wari LA Lien Uorrlene fi"

NO OT Cory

T POST ANCE OF RECEIVIR:

\_ACCURACY OF CONTENT REPORTS ON THIS SPECIFIC
© conrimmee re wee
(1) & oF consroenase waase C) 2 rrocssy reve C) & oF consiornanue mrontance
OO & or rms E) a. vos me OC & of mroarance
KE) & oF sucwt on no race cE CO) « povermn OF sUcHT MMPoRTaNCE

rss

mo rustues

ee at

Oe AITTIOG OSE BERET £2] o._cannor ve swooen
(PLEASE BRITAIN B11 FOR VOUR BV ALUATION IN SkCHION Til FELOMD

Tit} COMECTOR'S QUESTIONS TO EVALUATOR

[UJ EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS (Use sddir anal chects at necessary)

This office fas no other info; mt’ on tending to support er confirm the rma
that Rome willbe rmoved in mi iy 1960 as ambassador to the US, This re~
port 18 considered possibly true inasmoh as reporte of this mture are re~
ceived from tixe to-tim, Romlo is not considered a personally popular~
figure with the Philiopine government or people, or partioularly with the
Garcia administration although his personal role in convincing Garaie to
expect mich ki her oconomio aid in canmotion with khe president's vieit can-
not bo given too mich weight, It 1s considered that Gareja ras given adequate.
information about aid possibilities and that inflated expectations were Garcia's
om tactics to pressure the US, Romlo's possible replacement by Romualdes
oannot be evaluated other than thet the latter is in favor with Garcia,
ment of Cuaderno as Seoretary of ‘inence
ages hia relief ao Central Bank Sovernor is frequently rumored and Romades men-
tioned as m possible successor. Replacement of Romlo would raise speculations
about strained US-PI relations, but would probably not actually be indicative

of a less friendly PI attitude.

(IV) EVALUATOR'S FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS OR GUIDANCE TO COLLECTOR ON SURIECT OF THIS REPORT (Noir: Untess
formal requirement :s £0 folistr, callection of informatica in reply t9 questions on this evaluacsst sicet will be andertalca only as
‘canvesicat or aveilasic.



CENTRAL INTEL GENCE AGENCY

A Deleree of 9 United ates weit 9 tbe megn'sy of the Lioonoge Lowe, Tle

Thun menenal contains snlormanon aterting

19, USC. awe 79) aed 778 he omeresvon in 3h me" on amp manner ton wove tah yeah BONDS by fe
8-E-C-2-LP

COUNTRY Ghezia REPORTNO, , OO- BH3,164,655

SUBJECT Pinenee Minister Believes Lack cf DATE CISTR. "8h August 1560
UO$5 Million US Loan WiLL Turn Kkrunch
te UBER : NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES. :
DATE OF
INFO. 13 Aug 60 7
* PLACE
Bate acQl3 Ane 60 - é :
Ths 15 UNEVAL'ZATED INFORMATION

source, US eftizen, public relations specialist.
Bource's fira specializes in publicity for foreign governments ond
industries.

2. Konla Agbelt the Finance Yinister of Ghana, spent the week of

7 bug & in , primarily seecing loana for the Velta River project,
which has now been scaled down to 6 practical size. Discussions with U8
officials and bankers led to agreem==ts to advance fimda for the next five
years, et the end of vhich time the dn vill be producing pover. ‘The total
cost will be US$163 million, of which Ghana itself will put up USQ184 million.
The World Bank will advance US$+0 million at 5 3/4 percent interest, the

Development Loan Fund US$25 million at 35 percent interest.

2. Goedensh wanted U3$5 million mire from the DIF because the job cannot be
earried out vithout it. Faced witk a esp of US$19 millien, Gbedersh, on bis
own authority, offered to 044 US$14 million to Ghana's contribution by taking o
%1 million par year cut of current incume. This, bovever, still leaves the

necessary US$5 million.

Fy
?
i
e
l

5
4
3
2
1



3.

6.

cm

bl “* 2 Bw

. B-E-C-R-E-P
0 yorat/#O DIBSEM ABROAD/LIMITED
: 00-B-3,16%,656

Tbedenah vas profourtty Aisturt- vhen ho talked to me on 11 and 23 Aug 60. io
have known each other vell for : long time, yet be bas never before "let ale
hair down" as he bas oa thin cotter. He must report to Micruzah on Friday
rorving, 19 aug 60, regarding the ouccess or failure of his stoston. Ke talked
by telephone to the President 11 Aug 60 but did not tell him about the

US$5 million obortage, Barely snying that there vere still a few diffiov.t
details. Kerumh replied that Chana vould not be put into the position of
Desceching the US for the losas ~ he vould rather give w tle vbole thiny and
turn eleevhere. Geesenah 16 sure that if he sust report to the Prooidast that
he bas returned vithoat the sdditional (18$5 million, that, Nimumh will
immediately have his seeretary call the Sovict Anbascador.

Geese cee yrcen so nsctand es eescae ees taint alle thee Gemieten eins
Ghana when Nkrumsh decided to become President rether thea renainiag Prine

Mintster. If the diseoxteat over thio mong high party aembers had been
allowed to break out, the opposition could have exploited the ochicu and the
government would have fallen. The conflict wes contained within the cabinet
end at the highest party levels, but the tensoness and danger renata. (dedemah
said that Mrressh is s2 egotist en4 some poverful people do not like his
selr-glorification. Cvedemab commented that "Nirumah's days ore mabered” but
vould not enlarge further.

Gdedemsh is convinced that 17 the US$5 million 1e not cousitted, "it vill be
the straw to break the cemel's back". He does not know why the DLY was so

adgament in the matter, but says that "thie is 9 question of saving 6 country
for the cost of a Bk? bombor”. fikrumah, he assured ma, 1s leaning more ond
more away from the West, and failure to.get the loon from the US will finally |
make the President tum to tho UEER for the entire amomt. ‘Yhe Soviets vill
surely agree to such sa opportimity, eo that the US position in Ghana is -
“hanging in the balance" in the next few days. Gbedeush ie still hopeful that
be will have fuvorable word, before he has to report to Mensmh ia Accra, that
the US¢5 million bas been granted, but he does not think this will really coma

to pasa.



TICE AGENCY

CENTRAL INT ELUIGE

on olen! na the Pht aia! Lntanne a) ne 2 ted Segten atts he meng et te Iapcmcoe tows Tole
Min momamencan ge “vee nem gf hich inne te i wns Noted BOAR a RN AL Be hte

Ete F Pape! dela inbeahy

rR REPORT NO.

Eeevewiigtra 40% Tew D Rua teare, DATE DISTP
Oxted of fecacley Becta, UF Bexaybert

Cota

NO. PAGES 2
REFERENCES

DATE OF 4
INF anriy Oct 59

PLACER
PATE AC onety Ort 59

source Whethtaan, peblic malattms spectaltet.
Saxca's tm spertalites in peirity for fansiga grosrmments end iotartrion,

CT UREVALUATER oewarion

Le Kwtealed @ swtaytton 2 Gee Yo dn aayle AO 49 aod waa Sekeedocsd 1
Tare by Ree ltarcy, Caled af ta Receity Gacting of the Bavked WE Secrevartat
By te hone Ja bis mtdafenties. eyenks qielad! bneitiab, ge an iclacotiog
reroegnericesltst, aol las 2 sare, Drlenily precatity. Bs bas bean with
The U6 Du cwtatat Par Gis A year, Dut dna Ewrely been asaigne’ as Colaf
22 tas Bevertty Puctioa. Appetestiy, ba spake oaveral Yastera Barvpean
Regen ba oddities to Bralisb, Far hs eevertad that he hag rafusel aa
dan linet t3 8 Bytaash apeising cxwi.Ty becaere be 41d not lossy the lanmnage
and want be Ioaffective, ani lat reqvested Invae4d an assignmant to haecteces
Bumps ue the UW. Bis araigaent to the UE nd follaed.

2. the, thing which I foal west dntacwrting ebout Bielianoy was the fect that
le 12 the Siiwt Soviet with wae I lve talked whe bas frankly and openly
wiles thet press and poblic tafwmetion aoita in the Soviet Untan are
wattage cooled. Pls crutrsi, by anit, 19 adacintaly manistary
wima ¢9 Datla tha Boviat stale; that the peopla aie aot ready for
fa Larter ededtted thes ther de ura orcas we infowe.lem
ECAP eS IAL Metia, das thet thle is & mt ts Ga ond. He thea launched
the ween Soviet line thet beth ef car eovexmnants hed made cariow: binalez,
bphbaer Mapendiodens portir ty diondne. rohit er ore niitsrapneedbas-e viii
woacon! betwess G3. 2 ese bia his :

i

3. Badtansy te cxrrently ongage’ in bis leiswe tine in an exhaustive stuly of
@ Ustenwhere. T asked bis how be selocted his esting material ani he tela
im tabt IF the soviews of a bozok in the "New York tines”, “Pribume", "Tima",
ots vere all favoithle, he zest the book. Bwks ware also rocemmanted to
bin. Re wes most depressed ofth Hitchali's “ows With the Hind", which he

.

wala hed given hin a decpas cnierstaniing of this perind of U8 history than
sajtidag ba Ned read, Amang American poste, Walt Whitmon, he felt, vac the
grestest. a nan vbo waderntl trae democrecy, aa @ man who would hive been
egy fess in the Soviet Onis,

C-O-8-F-I-D-B-8-ToI=A-L,



a,

: C-O-N-P-I-D-B-N-P-I-AoL,
_ : WO FORH/SO DISSEN AFROAD/LINOTED
7 00+-B-3,283,257

I learned very little of Buelianoy'a background. . He dit toll me thet he hed
boen bora and reared on @ fara outoide of Moscey where big father till resides,
Bo eppearad very sincere in hiv dovp affection for his father, whon be oald =
he visited at overy opportunity, He eatd bis father ‘loved pootry and hind

nade him epent many hours of hie youth memorizing the vore ef fas Sorlet |
pouts, his futhor's theory being that ons could not really loves art undervtand
Aico country and his people without a knowledge of hia country's literviure, ~
Emelianov faprecsed me 68 @ nan who hed a vory deep Jove for hiv country and
padple aside ani apart from any idealogical consideration.

- oe

C-O--P-I-D-B-H-T+I-A-L
‘50 DISSEN ABROAD



: Cin } AGENCY

Pir ceataniol comoine uturmntion attaching she Hist onal Oetente of 24 United Dates wets te megan of YM fumarase tow, Tole

fon spttathonnad erRER A seohihuted by how

Tote Eee Pot unt 298, to wont tn 0 on gah eae ony
CO F TD S-BoPOE AK
COUNTRY —-Phs.Lppines . BEPORTNO. = QO= B+3, 143,138
sumect, Recall of Carlos fireite as Anbasnnacr pare piste, —& Now’ 59
te W/Aprotntmont of Iw Vinenca Minister
FAGES 2
KEPERENCES. -

%o 00-B-3125330
pate or Guide Whe PAL
INFO. Ben 59 es =

APACE &

pA Bop 59

SOURCE

1

2.

3

city for

Officer of a US public relations firm, vhich speo
foreign governments ani industrics.

Bas been informally coneulted by tye friends eancemned with developments
in the Philippines, One 19 8 UB tusiorssmen of many years standing in
the area ond the other ia a Filipinc vao was very close to President:
Magseyssy cui hie administration.

Bubassy of. the Philippines that Carlos Romie will be relieved of hi
post ag Aubaseador to the US in carly 170. Though there have been
thar minor annoyances wuish have contributed to President Carlos
ainaffection vith Romilo ¢ > Ramilo'e recent sppearance in U8 mazesins
atvertisenenta entorsing the Lincoln ayvtambile, Garcia's reallovs af

I hove been informad by ane whom I consifer @ reliable source in the
e
Garcia’

‘a

“faith in Ramo came after Garcia's revuro to the Failippines from his US.

visit in the Summer of 1958 with assurances from Romo that considerable

"WB eccnomie aid would be fortheaming in the near future (Bee 00-B-3125330_J>
-Bamilo's removal as Ambassador has been delayed becaurs he is @ symbol of

u3/Philippine fHiendsbip, end Bomilo has let it be known to Garcia

his removal ag Aubepsaior will certainly lend mch credence to acti-US
charges levelled against the Cercis etministration. Garcia vill have to
find another easignwent with sume prestige for Romulo in the Philippines.

Iam told that the nev Asbasssdor to the US will be: Eduardo £ Romualdes,
the president of the Philippine Bsticnal Benk. Rocunldes was

U5 fer the Vorid Bask nevtinew this south [ Septesbar 1959 fend Z wt en
talked with him, I was very favorably impreased with him. Be recognizes
‘the ueed of the Philippine Government for good public relations representation
in the US, and hes

i
E
nit
EE
Ee
fly
il



aur C-O-H-F-I-D-B-D-9-1-A-L 93,163, 43%

ne °

tierra goon vill be a new Finance Mizistor 1a Gareia'’s aebinet.
¥4g3a1 Cuederno, Governor of the Cau®.s1 Tuk of the: Philippines,
te named ag the auscescor to tba post. 6 Gree not sound rigtt
ts mn, fur Cuscerno 16 fn on oxtresely important position es

(.verner of-the Conti Bank, and 1s geportedly doing an ozeollant

7

Sete
- end
}
i
ie ~ i
rE ”

© OrB-P-1-D-B-B-2-I-A-L
BO FORH/#0 DISSEM ABROAD/LDOTED



tha maternal tuts

: COPED BR HET AL
2

WMGEMCE AGENCY

iMurmaton atteerie) the Wononat Clone of ihe United itty a thn the mamang of the hoonuge lows, 18

MEUEE Soe Svan 194, te maniryitun oF malate win ax nny mannar tah showhanted pecten pad by Hm

COUNTRY,

SUBLET

DATE OF
INFO
PLACER

DATEACQ Vata fp Oct 9)
a iiss UNEVALUATED wtOvma Tote

Gutnes /ime/Liberia REPORT NO. 00-8-3,142, 797
Indtration of Strained Relations DATE DISTR =~ -AY Qotobor 1959
Detwen Governments of Ghana end Gutnes/

Coovaraahten with Konla A Gbedemoh, MO. PAGES @

Pirin: Flaance Minletsr :
: REFERENCES

Ista Srp ~ Oot 99

SOURCE:

2.

3.

(crc a

Us cltizm, public relations spoctaltat.

Bourvs"a fis specializes im publicity for foreign govennents ond
industries.

I bave been in teuch with the dhanelen Exbsssy for several weeks in
regard t the state visit of President Sekou Deus of Quinca, which -
will tagin an 26 October 1999. In view of tha fnct that Guinea hss
no eaboesy ar chance Llery 11 feralngsca, the uisnaioa Yabassy was
instructed hy ito goverment to perder every to
babazatdce FLY Diallo of Galasa to insure the successful state
tack to the US only afa er sever
the

4
Ba
le
Hl
i

pin down Telli to discuss arrangesnits for Toure's visit. the
@romaian Bsbassy was becaniog a little annoyed.

Br lace Septeuber 1959 I Alecuased this problen vith Ghana's Finanoe
Watster, Kola A Gordemnb vas in the US for World Bank meetings,

tad hja fraction vas Dat be did ant believe tant Wilt had fms 8
purehass an embassy property, and that he vag cubarressed. AS @
result cf Mlli's unavailability and the understandable annoyance of
the Ghantian Eubasay, rtessadsr Balm on his arrival in Washington

uimireo

land Deteass to the unveil gone componente othe



wos fostris Sd to be polite: to Telit ant ty Tourh’s party on arrival,
wut to atticnpt bo give no furtusr enutstanca and to let the viatt
fall vm its face, ao to sprak.

4, Lvna, mrrertholeos, still interested In the Toure vielt froma pro- ~
foontonal wtanipoint, ant could pot beltove that arrangements vere .
mat be jing Mage Totane Cane ol Tovee’s PHATy, In yThe Gatien
of Btate put out-an Ltinerary on Toura's vinit of 19 October
I know that scucone bad to be making arranymmte. I Tearaad ate
Ambannailor Tollt had coms down from New Tork for.om day the week of
12 October 1959 with a public relation: nen of Olin Hathieson, but
that Telli had not gone near the Gbanainn Uabasey, 1 esowtnd thit
Olin Mathiecon wna performing the sorvyicen offered by the Ghanaina
Ewlinsy. I contacted frients in Olja Mathieson ani vas informed iseientseteastsstttt
that because of their oxtecsive alunimin project in Guinea they if
wore handling no publicity for the Toure visit, nor vere they axraug- -,
ing for any otnte functions in Washington, Olin Yathieson had supplied
6 Fronch-opouking secretary to asaiet Ahunsesor Tell! during the
course of legal transactions involving, I an told, the purchase of
8 very finn bullding in New York -- this would tend to discredit
Obedemab'n wioumption that Telli did not have funts for purchase of
4n eubassy in Washington ~- but Olin Mathinson had done no public
relations vork for Tolli, Telli, I was informed, bad requested
funio for public relations trom Preaident Toure, but had eS

no reply.

‘S$. I then called coveral hotels in Washington to determine vhether or: not
any arrangevents hid becn mate for receptions at woich Toure would
be host. Tha Yayflower Hotel is handling a Toure re-eption for a
thousand guests on 27 October 1959. I asked who was Laniling tho’ /
arrangements fur the reception and was reforred to a Counséllor of
- the Litertan Fmbassy, Tho reason for Ambassador Telli's disregard .
for the repeated and frantic inquiries frou the Ginaaian Bxbassy in
regard to Toure's vidit immediately became epparent. in my opinion,
this deliberate snub of the Ghanaian Eahazoy is indicative of very *
atrained relations between the govermenturof Ghana ani Guinea,
Further, Ambassador Halm of Ghana has rot, yet his eredenn
. t1als, so he ia et111 in Washington in en unofficial copacity, I.
am oure that he does not intent to present his credentials until
, @fter Toure's visit. In thio way, he successfully avoids being .
. Montified in any official capacity vith ‘oure’s visit.

6. nets el ey with Yinance Kintater Chetemb at the Voria Tank
meotings, I had dinner with him the folloving week in Bev York.
Though he does ‘not receive the public recognition abroxd enjoyed by *
KoJo Dotsio, Ghana's Minister of Econouic /ffairs, Gbeceush is
recognized in Ghana as Nirumah‘s right ham cen ent zost influential
adviser. Everything of major importance done by Mkruneh has been
discussed vith Gbedemah, and has bis approval. He bas Mcrumah's
respect to the point where he ia apparently quite iniepenient ia his”
actions, This vas illuotrut.d to mein our discussion of the meeting
of African leaders lust eumur /1959/ in Liberia. According to
Cooderush, he hed otrongly sdvisvd against Nirumah's atterdance at
the conference ani tu) flatly refused to accompany Horuwh. Qbedemah
caid that the conferente vas 4 major set back for Firumh,

Murwah‘s drean of Afritun Federation had been successfully punc-
tured by President Williom Tulasn's moderation policy ard urgings
that any final decisions be delayed until the next meting in 1960
yben tha leadoro of now inlepenlent African states vould be present.
President Toure of Guinea - supposelly rederated vith Chena - eup-
ported Tubman. I told Gbudcsuh I found this hurt to unlerstand and
enked Lin for his personal optuton of Tours. I vas annoyed at bis
reply, for Obedeash, though u direct anf frouk Lodividual, 19 not
-ziven tw making deropatory stutenents about other Leads of state, = |
~Gb ae eee $a sor fovre, Them ~Aacrook, a dexagogue and an

+ sent -
C-O-N-F-I-D-E--T-I-A-L
worcEs Gee epee WO DiSsEM ATZOAD > LIMITED



Den, paternal eantiones seocmerion
HE USC Been 77) el Pe. tg Bs

[le JRO SE

“ererene- awe t-

Le dibs
SENTRAL ISFLULIGENCE AGENCY

2 Fe Seer! Geteose of me Unie Sees sat Re maceg of the Fapamase Lows foe
ah any mani! to am yaouonseg barton ih Bowe ed Or ine

COUNTRY.

SUBIECT

DATE OF
INFO.

Sosta REPORT NO. O0-B-3,1)3, 3h

Cormnnte of Pinsnce Minister Dewal DATE DISTR, * 20 Boertar 1999
04 Bowbay and Calcutta Pood Riota/
Jamary Elections in Kerala NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES,

bey 59

PLACE &
DATEACQ. ___ Be; :
THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION,

SOURCE:

2.

2.

ro
IRIRETS osmemuratn teved tefl tne tre pam ot cit ERO TET ed

Fri aering NS cdemenre end hebher orhlows
A tennal om ahart teren active duty serceoci=g rnd.vrdwam ee wrt moe mal
Voocaron of tha ernguneting office Nae Leon wbtarned thresgh "he Ae

W citizen, publie relations spretalist, : :

Sourca's firm epeniaiisss in publieity for foreign goverments and
industries,

X talved with Finosee Minister Morar{i Ranchhodji Desai on the occasion
of bis visit to the Ut for the World Bunk msetings in Sep 59. Desai,
ees red np rer peppered gong wey Peg rahe ery eporeriony
‘a right hand, told mp that ths Infian Goverment had conclusive
iF that the recent frod ricts in Bombay ani Calcutta were commnist-
inepired. Yalluxe of food prices to decline in Bambay end Calcutta
ofc ire ard pone bade der rings nedoanee ry ptighan
attributable to cumenist activities in the fansing area villager around

Kerala vare completaly disillusiomd, and umier Do would
vote for the return of 4 communist Kerala. .
aie - one

MITED
um State and Defense 10 180 sarelisgence compomenta SIRS

sn phon vmmndsate euaputt



coma AY wt swat on atten Ine ths - st Geterde Of a aed Srute
M8 792 anes 194 thy term eee on voce at cm of mb on wiry movies no

C-O-H-F-1-D-E-H-P-1-A-L

COUNTRY Gutnes/thaca/tberta

SUBJECT

DATE CF
INFO,
PLACE &

DAE A's Late Sop = Oct 59,

1.

30

REPORT NO 00-B

Inlicatios of Strained Felations Between —DAIE DISTR
Governments of Ghana and Culnea/ Oaversation
with Komla A dbedcmah, Pinanca NO. PAGES.
Mintoter

REFERENCES,

Late Sop ~ oct 59

IC tna

A ie ica

I have been in .
the state visit of President Sekou Toure\,

nstantly ince his

he presented his credentials in

Jun 59 and then ‘returned to Guinea, cams bask to tha US only cix or soven
it return to
te

weeks ago. He bas been in Key York almos
the US, ard frou all appearanes, was not

Geveral good
left without

In late Sep 59 I discwsoed this problel vith Ghana's Finance
Gbedamah, whe was in the US for Yorld Ep meetings, and his

he
hg vas qabarrassed.
Gunoyance of the Ghanaian Bubsssy, Ambansedor Halm on his arriv,
crrosmatrested to be polite to Yelle and tp foure's party on
attenpt to Give no further assistance and to let tho visit fart
te speak,

-D-R-H-T-I-AL

concerned with Toure's impendiag

lan Bubassy in tho past, thoy
priate real estate in

BYoperties and

any =
again te look at\the Properties, Meanwhile,
to

ster, Komla A
‘tion was that

did not believe that Telle had funds \to purchase an embass. property, and that
\
Ag a result of Tollk'a unavailability and \the understandable

in Washington
val, but to
its face, so

fan

we
4 ©

TNRORIM

Tr
lORISR

iT
TIONG REPORT

AE INEOR MATION?

“rithin State and Del

Drisemination limited 10 (ull time omphivecs of CLE SED ont



he

5

6

“Gbedenah said that the conference vas a major set back for

__ CQ-N-PaT-DeE-R-P-I-A-1, oe
Wo FORK/WO DIGSEN ABNDAD/LUCTED a IW 79)

I vas, nevertheless, uti interested in the Touro visit fron a professional
standpoint, and could not believe that arrangements Vara not being mide to take

care of ‘Toure's ‘party. When the Department of Stite put\out an itinerary on

Tourc'a visit on 19 Oct 52, \I Knew that someone bad to ba.moking arrangements.

I lnorned that Ambassndor TeNe had come dovn froa Hov Yokk for one day thy veck
Of 12 Oct 59 with a pubite relations man of Olin Mathieson) but that Tolle had —° ~
not gone near the Ghanian embdssy. I aosumed that Olin Mithienon was performing
the services offered by the an Exbassy, I contacted friends in Olin
Mathieson and wae informed that
Guinea, they vere extending whateyer assistance and courtesy they could to Telle,
Dut that thoy vere handling no pulllicity for the Toure visit, jor were they arranging
for any state fimctions in Washington. Olin Mnthievon had supplied a French~

speaking secretary to assist Ambusckdor Tolle during the course\ of-leyal trunsactions
involving, I am told, the purchase of a very fine building in idv York == thio
would tend to discredit Gbedemah'r sdsunption that Telle did not|have funds for
purchase of an enbavsy in Washington \~ but Olin Mathteson had ddne no public
relations work for Tolle. Telle, I wh informed, had requested thinds for public
relations from President Toure, but hai\ mceived no reply.

I thon called several hotels in Washti to determine vhether of not any
arrangements had been wade for receptiond at which Toure would belhost. The

Nayflover Hotel 1s handling a Toure reception for a thousand guests on 27 Oct 59+

I. asked who vas handling the arrangenants Yor the reception and wds referred to ——
& Counsellor of the Liberian Bubassy. The \reason for Ambassador felle's disregard :
for the repeated and frautic inquiries from\the Ghsnaien Bubassy jin regard to

Toure's visit immediately became apparent. ‘nm my opinion, this deliberate emb
of the Ghanaian Exbassy 1s indicative of very\strained relations between the
governments of Ghana and Guinea. Further, sador Halm of Ghana has not yat
Presented his credentials, ao he ic still in Wishington in an unofficial capacity.
I em sure that ha does not intend to present hik credentials until after Toure's
visit. In this way, he successfully avoids being identified 1m any official
capacity with Toure's visit. I do not believe, Hpvaver, that any open rupture 1s
inmdnént betveen the two governments. It vould do Kvane Nkrumah's dream of
federation no good to have the first African state \vith which be has formed @
federation blov up in his faces I believe he vill b\de his time until the next
meeting of the heads of African States in Liberia next year /1960/.

After my brief chat with Finance Minister Gbedemah at \the World Bank meetings, I
had dinner vith him the following veek in New York. he does not receive
the public recognition abroad enjoyed by Kojo Botsio, Gl

Affaire, Gbedemah 1s recognized in Ghona as Nkrunah's
influential adviser. Everything of mijor iupertazce dond\ by Nkrumah hes been
discussed vith Gbedenah, and has Sia approval, He hes

point where he 1s apparently: quite independent in his acti ,
illustrated to me in our d‘scussion of the meeting of Africhn leaders last sumer

£19597 4m Liveria. According to Goedemsh, he had strongly avised against Nkrunoh's
attendance at the conference and had flatly refused to acct Wcrumah,

dream of African Federation had been successfully punctured by
Tubman's moderation policy and -urgings that any fina} decisions \pe delayed until

‘the next meeting in 1960 when the leaders of nev independent states would «
be present. President Toure of Guinea = supposedly federated vit Ghana - supported
Tubsan, I told Gbedemah I found this hard to understand and asked for his
personal opinion of Toure. I was annoyed at his reply, for Gbedenmah) though a
direct and frank individual, is not given to making derogatory stat

other heads of state. Gbedemal said of Toure, Sree re nanenertnechind

- eni-

C-0-H-F-I-D-E-HeI-I-A-L
WO DISSEM ABROAD Loam


C-ONPAToDeE-HeTaToheL ger

-L Jno vors/no pres, LIMITA, }
TORIRLO USE On poe pene a

°

4°

arroat

7 SUBIECT AND AREA

Indian Anbassodor to UB Seeking Cabinet Post Through
Anti-US Gtotemente (Iedia}

‘couace Name, Tide, Organisation, Address or Y
Edvard K, Nese

Public Rolationg

1025 Connecticut Avenue, B.We
Washington, D. C.

‘SUD. SOURCE Wame, Title, Organisation, Addrece)

ROCCE
sence Peategeemeee!

(OxTaA DeeseumiaTion conTaOL
MAY BE RELEASED OM WELD 10 KAOW 10:

L_APMOVED LIT OF Cu ConA TANTS

SSromoc ceo

|e le ey a

Tome no.
tip 56 29 use previous comions

TORANCH STAFF CW



akemsrann alert she Matinul Defense ot Ae Untied Sire

4784, tee Mrontintmna et tevelntisn oF aba =

5 me maanwig ot
tod 10"

“ory manner

CrOnH “FT oDoke BD Iade

COUNTRY Indie
‘SURJECT_. Indien Axdasoader to US

Seeking
Cabinet Post Through Anti-US Staterenta

DATE OF
INFO. 22 Jun 59 and ‘earlier

FACE &
ATE AC

SOURCE:

1

3.

a

KOH NO, OO=B3)133,928
DATE DISTR, 6 muly 1959
N® PAGES 2

REFERENCES

tas is UNEVALUATED inFORMATION.

US citizen, public relations spectalist.

Source's firm specializes in publicity for foreign governments and industries.

Indisn government and business visitors te the US have been aghast in recent

weeks ot the anti-US statements of the new fmdion Ambassador Mahomed Ali ¢

[ans
leva thot he ia acting under orders
22

Sum 59, I talked with an important Indian industrialist, who formerly
post.in the Indian Govermant and is quite close to ‘Javaharlal
told me flatly that the Ambassador 16 following an independent
mot under Nebru's instructions, although it may be possible that
tacit consent to proceed. I received the impression that tha Indian
Government is not too happy with the situation but has pot yet instructed the

Ambassador to desist.

it

ge g

1d

i

lines and is

he has

Cabinet post. Be is making the brah statenenta prinarfly for bone coammytion

These include charges egainst US shipments of arms to Pakistan. The
feel that thy Ambassador is being highly undiplomatic and cannot .

complish his desire.

ac
I wes also told that tho Ambassador is
% that the US Congress bas moved to send less arms aid abroad.

from bons.

trying to take credit privately for

"7 AUG 1959



ibe Wfefafalaial
ee cnutenons fe | :

7 BUBIFGT AND AREA

Mano; Proposed Conference on Soviet Pureign Sconamte
Pregrans

@ Contact Wame, Tits, Ovyanieasion, Addrose or "I" Number}
Kavard K, Mose
Public Relations
1025 Comecticut Avenue, NW.
Weehington, D.C.

(0TTRA DszEMBATION CONTROL
MAY BE RELLASCD Cli REED TO KNOW TO

| Ce PP/EAD
g HH ESCO

— 25 use pmevous comons


F SuB;ECT ano Anta

Socialist Leader's Views on Duportant Iseues to India

‘Public Relations ay
1025 Connecticut Avomuo,
Washington, D.C.

Danan STAST Creer
G. E. ¥redsal

{ease 25 use recnous mons 2



Tha Reteral qanigint intron
1BLUSC Sect 799 ond 221 she tronumnanon pt feveianees Of hn Mm viny manne "uN ytonuthanned gare Ht probaly

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

won plfechng O19 Hit Deteman of Me tased Saree ehin the manning af he fv
emis wy “4 by tow.

C-O-B-¥-1-D-f-N-T-I-A-L ~

\ COUNTRY India .

SUBJECT

DATE OF

INFO.

CE &

. REPORT NO. OD~ Be 3,122,919
Locialivt Looder's Views on Iuportant DATE DISTR, 19 June 1959
Isrueo to India
NO PAGES 2
REFERENCES
k-5 may 59

PLACE
: PATE ACOH -5 Ie
eas THis i= UNEVALUATED INFORMATION :

SOURCE

3.

k

noroRn
pen she)

mis courtelhcte.

UG ethdnen, peblee: rik
ource’e firm cpectalizes in publicity for foreign governments and industries.

During 8 conference in the US on Indien ‘conomic developmant on 4-5 vay 59, I
heé several opportunities to talk informally with the Indien £ociulict Party
loader, A Hehta. UndeF questioning, te told me that the gocislist Party :
octually coincides almost 99 percent vith the beliefo of the Lehru Covernnent,
but diségrees on aspects of yolicy ard aduinistration. In effect, hic 1s
just enother “opposition” party. f£ectalion in India ..cans equality of
opportunity und not too greot a concentration of vealtfr-in anyone's hands. He
pointed out thet he is for private enterprise and used aG an éxampie the fact
that he persuaded tho Indian Coverment to get out of tle fertilizer business
and permit it to be handled by private enterprise. He believes thet business
should do the jobs for which it 1s capable ani the goverment handle those it

carnot,

At tke tine of the Tibetan revolt, he demanded that * Eebru puke a firm
policy ecainst Communist China. Tow, he is glad that Nehru did ret do so
because the Prine Minister knew that ery such move would jeopardize the flight
of the Dalai Lana, which he had been privately informed was then in progress.
Mehta added that the Tibetan incident has had moro effect on Indien public

opinion than any event since Independence. ‘The people at all levele are deeply
shocked. He agrees that the Indien Goverment mist naintein its position of
non-aligunent officially, but the people and public servants can continue to
heve strongly anti-communist sentiments. India io at lact aroused to the danger
of conmuniem, which it wes not at the tine of the distant Hungarian repression.

He felt-that the oltuation in Kerala State was prinarily because of a “botch”
by the Congress Party. He thought thet the communists von the initial election
because the people voted in protest against the Congress Party. They were not
communist sympathizers but were cerely Cisgusted vith the goverment. Communist
success the second time vas traceable to much the same situation - seccnd rate
Congress Party card‘cctes and ineffective policies. He is certain that the
communists cannot long remain in pover in Kerala if the Cosgress Party will put
‘up g00d people. During these statenents, it vas obvious that, though on antie
caxurist himself, Mehta vas not particulerly concerned over Kerala. He
regarded it almost as en example thut elective democracy is ectually werking in
India. : ees .

Mehta 1c concerned over Nehru's drive to implement the nev cooperative farning
plan. He agrees that India must increase far--ing production but this plcn will
not be popular. Anything vhich affects pecsant c:n:.c°p of lard cannot get

‘
\

C-0-F-F-I-D-Z-H-f+I-A-L _:
(woe ee ee eT

Ne Dissre ABROAD,

Divsermnation hmited ta full-time vanphorees of CIA AEC one
sm BS


oe i
C-O-H-F-1-D-2-8-T-1-A-L
SO POKN/HO DILSLM ABBOAD/LIMITED

72 (as Be 5 LRU . ie

going in Iedia, He citrented that thy \2a¢tag motive Yor murder tn Indie 4
@fapute over land terure. Be thinks tuet seme sort of marketing cooparat:

would be more effective,

Ge wis most anxious for @ reconciliation betveen Iviia and Pakisten, He folt

that this wee inevitable but ahould be very soon. ville in the US, he bad a

quiet conference with the Priintant Ashassador up this subject end told we tint he
frequcutly maxes trips to Pukisten itself, to tak to ite leaders, Mehta felt that
Nebru uay be coming around to drop his yerscpal acti-Pakistan feelings, vhich fas
were brought about largely by vhat he corsifered 111 use by Pukiston at the
time of the. Kashmir crisis. Mehta also believes tant the Tibetan revolt bas mde }
oth the Indians ant Pakistent sore conscious of the fact that they mart ext .

together to oo their problem, < cr-rit:.
Mehta agreed thet the West had taken the correct etcps in the cold var to contuin

‘communist might and aggression. Howaver, te did think that there must te some
method by vhich the strains of the cold war could be relaxed.

A

ad

gies

C-0--F-I-D-E-B-T-

NO FORK UO DISSEM ABROAD LDaTeD



TGS RET ano Rete

Boltef that Ambeosaicr Romulo ie Mein Cause of
Misunderotamfings witb U8 (Philippines)

SL FONTREY Wane, Tale

Wo BOURGET Wanay Filey Orpamanns Adare oF Nowbo

Mr. Bivard K. Moos :
Public Relations A. ] AGS Y¥
1025 Connecticut Avenue, N.W. D

Washington, D.C.

wus SOURCE ans. Tuts, Ovgscutalon, Addon

Extes oissenIMATION cowTROL,
wet OE RELEASED OM NEED TO KNOW TOr

FIELD REMARKS EDITORIAL COMMENT



That mettenol contouny abortion alle
18, USC Seen 793 ond 704, the tron

© C-O--P-1-D-E-

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

13 the Nobonol Deteose of the Unind Galea wits the memniny ot che Lpanage (9
font rewetonen cht ch in ring ewan fiom wanguttmunverd prsscn v4 prababuted ty

Ina

COURT — prarippinea

GANT “psessader Romzlo the Nain

Ccuse of iitcsunderstandings with US

DATE OF
INFO, 2h Feb 59 cxd earlier
PLACE &

DATE ACO, 24 Feb 59 ard «orlier

BEFORT NO,
DATE DISTR.
NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

THIS 1s UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

CO~ 3,125,350
20 Har 59
2

Guide 164 = PRL

SOURCE: Officer of a US public relations fim, which specializes in publicity
for foreign goverments and industries.

Eas deen informally corsulted by two friends concerned with developments
in the Philippires. One is a US bucinescran of many years standing in
the erea ond the otier is & Filipino who was very close to President

Magsaysey ard his eduinistration,

1. wo fricnds of mire, who are in close touch with develoments in the

Philippines, are vost concerned about the precent strained relations
Qce is 0 US businescman vith mary
years' experience in the country and the other is a Filipino vio was
very close to President Mogsayccy and still hes important political
connections with the Garcia regize.

between that courtry and the US.

2. They have told and feirly convinced me that the rain cause for the
rift between the countries ia the Philippine Anbasccdor to the US,
Carlos Romulo. I could not believe this at first because it seexed
to be so completely out of character.

3. The story is that prior to the arrival in the US in June 1958, of
President Carlos Garcia, Romulo had been forvardirg messages that a
substantial US loan vas a foregone conclusion and he could personally
arrange it, in effect by a fev telephone calls. After President
Garcia reached Washington, Romlo told him tot he had the commitment
for US$100 miLiicn, vhich vas not true. Atc mecting vith President
Eisenhover, President Garcia mentioned the reeds of the Philippines
‘Gnd aiseniover replied in general terms about the US desire to be

his beliefs by further mislecding cables from Romlo
that the US was not living up to its agreement, that_he was working
2 etc. It vas not until Garcia vent to Jepen /Decenber 19567

had anopportunity to talk to my Pilipino frierd that he got

US and was told of Roemlo'’s activities.

=f

Sireos protocind MIS elements. and heghar echhana with treet smimediats “upp

Gmarvre peveonnel 0m short fever acne duty veccopting indrenda!s ©
iierom assevearon of the ervtraatiaa offwra has haan nhioncnact

re normally

on
and
Deed adit niet rgb pebietcct Be asked ny friend what wes happening in

Bo nan tera

we age



a

t.

6.

C-0-N-P-I-D-E-H-TEI-A-L :
RO PORH/B0 DISSSM ABROAD/LIRTTSD §=— 0-3-3, 125,330
=2e i
Rov, Garcia te in @ @llewm, Re hiwvelf would look foolish for having
Deen tatea in by Me own axbsgsador, clious he com ovt with the truth
and zske Tile the scapegoat. This is a position he cannot te

witho:t further weakening bis ovn snaky administration. Furtier,
Garcia cxrnot fire or remove Romilo, without the necessary explunation,
Decause {3 would then appear that be had given in completely tv his
anti-US faction by removing the best Filipino friend the US hao bad

by proved record,

Ry frients usy that Romulo has resorted to these desperate tactics
Deceuse be Knows that mary of his countrymen wish him removed. le
oes. nct wish to return to the Philippines and does not want to Jose
his exbasesdorship, Yor this reason, he has continued to fabricate
or to mislead hie own goverment and to foster the difficulties
Detveen the tvo countries. My friends are convinced that Ronulo must
be rencved {n supe manner for the good of the Philippines. ‘They
auppart the Garcia administraticr., because it ia legally in power,
but their view 4u the long one. There will be an election in tvo
years snd the problems between the US and’ the Philippines, vhich are
largely nisungerotanfings, must be solved before it might be too late
for the next administration to repair the damge.

-ent-

C-0-BEI-D-5-8-T-I-A-L
§O Fors ‘BO DISSEM ABROAD LodtxD


MIU e Nannon wat ne setae nents nnn

ED sebe eee eo

CONFIDENTIAL 7A s ¥

wernt Bo.
York 3,125,327
Tine mo.

C(FRP)IBO0

awint Misa 'H. Kretorr

TIT aI TPP
[raat Beart aiiten

Tite! Potton tote bare :
WAPOA TANCE OF RECEIVING FUG THER
bALCHT OH THIS SPECIFIC. SUINIECT

Foe oye OF
RAMOS CIA

rooeunce TaUE
PF} a, powsveus eave
A a, gover
Eo. paorsnce vata

or vive
4. OF SI{GNT OR NO VALUE

Fas hance

Jo. coenor or su00r0
ATION 18 SLI ION JI LI OW,

1 8. auemoy surricieeriy awown

4 no outa peamsttine eet
(PUP ASH ERT TEATS PASS 20H SOUR IVALE
UHL) COLLECTOR'S QUESTIONS TO EVALUATOR

: . 2 418 1959

(UI) EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS (Use odditional sbects of necestory)

Diftioult to give a cat-gorzcal wvuluntion of tis revort since it probably
contains an element of truth, but it cortninly nv the wicle story. It is-
woll Inowm that Rorle spents considerable tine tcssting “fe om atkert vive
to Philippine jovernumt's relations wth US, and it 4s promble tlat he cftm
misleads his governzont in the hope of tnderoutting fis encaios at hom. It
ie not known to what oxtent orr:lo tried to corvince Varcia tiat sizeablo v3
loans wore in tho Laz, but Geresa had plonty o? mrainy fron US officials prior
to his trip tint this ms not the caso. Rorwlo's position with his own rovorn=
nent ts certainly siaxy ané it is unlikely that “ts o-fnions are piven hoavy
wbight by the Yaroia roverment. "n ray be a factor im present US=PI difficul-}.
ties, but the rensons for precest strained relating are uore complex than F

any nisunderstandin,s cassed oy “ornlo. iE

IV) EVALUATORS FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS OR GUIDANCE TO COLLECTOR OM SUBECT OF THIS REPORT (Note: Unicws
Jormal requirement ts to follow, collection of txformation in reply to quastions om shit evateation shect will be wndertahen only

‘Gs comvanient or available.)

Korte

San eee ceaeanes eastaaongg nena

i
‘
,
!
i



Speculation of Communist Effort to Buiter Poreign
Registry of US Shipping (iiterte/ International)

Poblie Eolations
1025 ‘Comnecticut Aveaus, N. W.
1 D, C.

TBE ROURCE Wome, Tat hg tape SIFT

—

Tonm no q
tov ce 20 use previous commons

Se eee 1



ms one Tale
tee toning mteomanion ottating the Natrona! Defense of the United Sates michin the meaning of ‘he Lipman t
NEUSE tere 793 and 205 he momemins on OF teretatcm of whieh um amy manner mo Om pied e-won wp prohibred by low,

C-O-B-PaT-D-RN-T-2-AnLs

RLPORTINOL) =. OCO- 2,120,667

COUNTRY = Liberta/International
SRHCT —«- Byarnlation of Coumuntet Effort to “DATE DISTR, » 9 January 1959

‘b Pe pgistry of ‘Bhi,
Ovitch Poreign Registry w pping NO. PAGES 1 i ‘i

REFERENCES

‘DATE OF
INFO, 29 Dec $8 ant earlier : :

RACER .
RAILACQ 29 Deo $8 and ear
THis UNEVALUATED INFOgMATION eaeeueae fase

SOURCE: Officer of a UB pudlic relations firm, which specializes in publicity for
foreign governments and industries.

1, Tbe international maritine boycott, which becane effective in Deceaber 1955,
against the “flegs of convenience” of US-owned vesnels xegiatored under
foreign nations, has caused considerable consternaticn within the Liberian
dovernmrat. Liderians realize that the countries involved (Liberia, Panama,
Honturas, Dominican Republic) have been mude to luck like co-conspirators vith
Snes] et evataters to] Sefetest /thelU.f[serense. ead eres ect t0 roid the
staniards of US maritine lev, With the contimance ef such a boycott, the
‘Lsbertans fear that their intermaticnal reputation will be increasingly burt,

3 rt
Fie, Hiertan coor tnepct every Libertas ing vane exiting iy their
areas.

his. the fourth largest fleet in the world unter its flag, including the majority
Of the best ani nevest US tankers, In the event of var, Liberia has @
etariing agreement with the US that these vessels vill be switched to US
authority vithout formalities. Such an agreesent does not exist under other
foreign flag errangeseante. Some iniividuals concerned with the Merchant Marine .
feel, therefore, that this boycott is a highly desirable ppoiah otha pal ih
will be used to switch these vital US vessels to a foreign flag, vhich:
considerably iess accorsible in « national emergency, 20 that-the
_ eve prospd and-effective control over necessary shipping.

\, The Liberten Goverment cannot materstand why the US Goverment does not

: -poblicly state thet 1t has approved the Liberian flag operation, and there ie
certainly the prospect that © coutimnance of this situation will burt
US/Liberisn relations.

3. Walle this date 1s mioubtetly kaon, there 1s ancther factor involved. a



7. SUpACT an@ AaER oe = d :

Apparent Italion Preference to Dnal vith Ethiopie Inctoad Reon [os [on

of Somalia i fo] patented oe ;
(Sommlia/Bthiopta/rtaly) - [Tb ink sd | ;

hor ori
atainatee |S

TOMVRET eames Vols, Urannireteens Ald =

Public Bolations
1025 Coanecticut Avenue, H. Wy
D,

ExTeA orsseminrion ComTeet,
WAY OF MELEASED Om HEED TO KnOw Te,

‘waanc are CaF
5. Peden TY

a yiaiaas yt eae LA

Fonu no
* Srov ce 25 use previous eomone 2 oun

Sateen


eure siacaee ateraton oliecing the Wath Celine gh te Unit one
SC lee 198 ond I96, te 9 —

C-0-B-PoI-D-k-H-T-I-AeL }

7 mica om 7 %

COUNTRY Somalie/sthtopte/Ttaly <7) RPORTNO, OO 3,120,868, \
MAIECT Apparent Itelian Preference to Deal DATE DISH.” -§ Jesuary 19559) i
with Ethiopis Instead of Bomlis i i

A ho, PAGES L : t

= <“ 3

REFERENCES, * : f

DATEOF 29 Dec $8 end earlier aan i in }
INFO, . }
}

SOURCE: Officer of « US public relations firm, which specializes in publicity for
foreign govermments and industries. i Hs

PATE Acg 29 Dee $8 ond earlier "| : . ae i
cig is UNEVALUATED itefORMATION. 3

The negotiations in the US during Decenber 1958 working tovards a
produced what

‘35, x beve ato’ beast a rumor that nai Ferah 414 Omar, Wlateter of

Econonic Affaire for Somlia, bas been. working closely with the Italians and |
bas mde s Goal thet, in returs for Itelisn suport ef kis being made Prine
Recess eran ce teceberentes.be_tta2 ouartney te, peaye. Bialiaa ia

“, -a- . |
;

a : i

# 2 C-O-5-¥-I-D-B-H-T-I-A-L 4

4 fe 7 H

22 30M 1959 &

zit : ry

: 7

:

i

a (7ST NS CS (SSC CSE CCN NS CTS A RN SN SO



00/6 GOULECTIONS |

process sucer |—* a
sea a.
ae yi}

4 4

h 5 HE eater
faiaiozs- of Svaanseo Biple-atd to Gop van [anaes [ov a] cof
i pol

(outon/xqmt) ae,

G. COWEEY Hocw, Tub, Ovoaciicnon, Addiewe @ 7 Halon

Como 09 pewreo

Ser —", a) TAC fV

Public Rolotéeno
1025 Connsetieut «worms, fe Me
Usshingtea, B. €.

TueBauRCE Tram, Tu, Oreean

3]

adie

: asap aes [ee ay [EE |
cuay oe anueaote ov HeeO 10 LEGO Tor
Tr errOovaD a ov ta ComnenTanTS a
| 3. eoeccoeo auraanss poo nero
o_eoses soancre rou on GORE
FIELD ECARD
|
a
a ofo-
|
|
| | a]
|
|
|
H wo bet
i | ae
ao
j | :
we ;
Fenn wo

(iow 0e 25> uve pnewous tanions


Ts coprtel eoottas' biroatise ofees Co]
Bocsaa! Dolense of to Batted Diao ertin Co}

| PREPARED AND DISSEMMATEDEY
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Officor ef a UB public Folotions fis, vbich specializes in publicity for
foreign govermzents and industricd.

2. Daring o conversation with Agbusnedor Tbrahia Ants. Svdanece Ambansnder to tha WS,
vo speculated upon devolepmonto supporting the recent political coup in bio
country. I gathered that Dr Ante had not suspected such 3 myve, although he
otated that tha Khalil Government had become iucreasingly vorried about control
of the country vith the Parliament to convene an 24 Rev 58, This Parliament
hod no clcar majority, and Abdulinb Khalil feared that thero would be resulting
chaos which vould havo o deotructive effect on tha confidence of the citizens.

Bo van afratd that thoro vould be cerious demralinatiun because of political

Anfighting. i
2, Aaio personally feel, vithout any. confirmation as yot, that Mbalil probably

called im Goseral Tbrahin Abboud to effect an apparent coup. Both orn arc ouch
eleco friends that Anio feala co cortain that the political nvve veo arranged
botwoen then.

3. nce governmout apparently has om tuternal actup closely paralleling tho

: Pare goverment's, There arc the ame political divisions, but now a military
foceds bas been erectcd to insure continuation of the policies alreedy
established, ‘There probably will be no change in ortornal or internal objectives.
Ano ctated that Muhnzned Mahjub, former Foreign Minioter, had planned to place
comboro of his party in important exbaocies abroad. ‘he Ambasscdor falt that
Shin vould heave deen a mistake, altbough it would have been a rezhod of
artonding party coatrol.thdor tha precast govermmant, Career oppointwente will
protebly be maintained, although it 4c possible that Zl-Nehdi vill arrange fer
nex of his relatives to obtain diplomatic stations,

&. Ande 10 coavinced that General Abboud 4c non-political and a patriotic Sudanese,
who vill remain in power only uatil present problems ore solved. fbese consist
_prixarily of internal imtebility dve to the bickering in political factions

water negotiations vith Eaypt, which must. be detormined without

Budan losing cut to Egypt. When thes problems are. solved, Anis feels’ that

.Abbodd vill eal) for alections with the bope of forming a Parliament with a

mjerdty party. In talking to Sudanese representatives at the UI during tho

Y got coss contrary opinions that the eilitary government

i
G
He

woak of 17 Gov 58,

J. Tho Gudanaso Panister of Comncres, cecording to Anis, recently vieited Cairo.
a order to ingratiate hinself with the pro-Keyytian elesent in the Sudan for bis
@m political ctature ang bo also viohad to onke a oufficient shov of negotiation

Giio cane minister hed



pisses C20. %-2-I-D-E-N- Pol -feb, 00-B 3,118,877
20, FOR./FO DISSEN ABRD/LIEVD
: e2e Tet
4

Gnd, in view of bio past efforts and the fact that ho hao o finonclel iztorcot
4p tho rill, vill certainly approve such US afd. In fact, vhon Ano roturas to
Brivate busizeos, ba will be the vholevale diotributor for the textile mill. Ea. oie ee
daughingly waid that tho nev Foreign Hintoter 40 tere betwoon keeping Agia ta tho “7
US co an Anbascador or getting hin hone ao quickly 02 poooible to help 4a ¢ho a
. busizcco, 3

6. Anko expressed bio Groat concora sbout tho coloration of tho now reganiing tha
“coup which boo boom oppoaring in the US preoo fram Catvo ocureco. He onid that . ¢?,
-  ho0e sterics bave hed a pro-Isoiy tings, although tho UB yroso has beor vary sistas

Shy

%

Fraiver’



We BoUREE ig, Tso, Wresatines Adds oo Womb
‘Bavard K Koss

Public Relations
1025 Connecticut Avenus, HB. W.
Washington, BD. Co

orm no
twovee 25 use eaenous somone



tmountog
Seca, 799 aad TEL the treverenioe o ravstation

PREPARED ANDO DISSEMINATED ‘BY: of Ghich ta on? paunsr to em encutbotved ber

suesce

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OAR Edy.

Plan for US-Egyptian Chamber of Commerce

THIS 18 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Ot ceetcer af a US public relations firma, whieh specializes in publicity for
foreign governments ani industries.

“He is ecqusinted.vith. the Commercial Counselor of the “WAR Eebaacy .
in Washington: ee ‘

I recently met the Commercial Counselor” of the Embassy of the UAB. This indi- :
vidual struck mo, or tried to convey thé impression, as being neutral tovards a
the UAR Government. He even implicd that Gamal Abdul Nasir's tactics were -
making his life difficult in fulfilling hie dedicated mission of economic
development of the Egyptian sector.
wambly, source refare to Hassan El away

Counselor Srprised oo by saying tout be bad quietly approached ed "Linod
up" twenty substantial US compantes vhich aro ready to enter into commercial
Qperstions in Raypt eo soon a8 such & move would be feasible, ‘The Ygyptien

ogg + pore ta ea TE TSH

ws US besiness in bis country.

One of his projects ts to establish a US-Egyptian Chaubor of Comerce. This _
would be douse entirely as a private arrangement without participstion of either
goverment. On this basis, he feels that factual commercial information would
‘Then be obtained and exchanged on e-free basis, which vould give e higher degree
of creditability to businessmen of both countries than any governent-sponsored
organization. Suis would fuither serve to crnste enough confidence-to reestablish
normal commercial ectivity.

Beta oom far a0 to hive Letters print; vith the dee of on
the first

Sais nih,

sibs

ae

ad

ved

Se taas cbse!


. Pome NO,

Ly __C-O<H-FeI-D-2-B-T-TeA-L
BO FORS/ 0 DISSE ABRD/LOUTED

Sudanese Ambasseior's Views on Asvan Dam and Hile Waters
Problea

1025 Connecticut Avenue, N, We

en, D. Co
SP Ota

‘exten omnsessmanion comrnot,
AY BE RELEASED OW LED TO ENOW TO:

a nov 96 £25 on use previous eomons-

a


INFORMATION REPORT
PREPARED ‘AND DISSE MINAT! 7) BY
i CENTRAL IITELLIGENCE AGENCY, ’
ta : : area
Suden/Bevrt “ Gidibalshesale = Yo" 7-1) Sf
avpater i ‘vate bistaieutno
___24 Novenber 1958... |
Sudanese Antessotor'’s Views on Asvan Dan Bo oF one ‘Twa. oF amcis.

and Nile Waters Problem

DUPPLEMENE TO

IMATION (Dale os Ocho ov beiwece Which, events Or eomblioas Gascribed ta

PUACE AND UATE ACQUIRED (27 Oy

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Officer of a U3 Palts relations firm, vhich specializes ip publicity for
foreign goverments end industries,

SOURCE

1. I hed a chat vith my acquointance, Dr Ibrahim Anis, Sudanese Ambassador the
US, on 11 Roy 4, I asked him whether the Budan would object to Egypt's
Duilding the higs Aswan Dom on its own territory, He replied that the Sudan
could not object, but that, of courca, the dau size would then have to be linited,
a8 would the water etorage area ani resulting electric pover moda available by
the dam, Buch 4 development vould sot cause real trouble with the Sudan 60 long
as the whole oyeration vas kept well within the Yeyptian border.

2, He said that the Zeyptians had eduitted that if the tvo countries vere one, they
vould build « series of low dems, ani then come. lover version of Asvan. He felt
that this was 6 telling argument against Egypt's present dam position, since that
plan is the suse a6 now advocated by. the Sudan. It.refutes the Kayptian line
that the Sudan isa levless nation viich has abrogated the treaty on use of Mile-
Vater. Nonetheless, the Aubassader cuuld not conceive any.set of circumstances
which would cause erity sericus rupture between the tvo countries, though Zeypt

2 tries to promte propaganda crises. Be is sure. that Gamal Abdul Kesir would
never resort to military force against the Sudan anf rather naively added that

F he @14 not thisk that there had been any serious E¢yptian-inspired aubversion
attempts within the Sudan. His opinion 1s that Sudanese-Egyptian relations will
never reach 6 crisis in fact because both countries vish to maintain at least
the scublance of Arab brotherhood, ae es

3. We then discussed the Pgyptian propaganda assault on the Sudan over the Nile
waters, end the fact that the Suian bad never publicly told its version of the
ile dispute. ‘ibere is some consideration by the Sudanese Goverument of freycring
a “vhite paper” om the subject, ani‘possibly inviting prominent foreign pevenen
to Khartoun for # perenbulat ting press conference. This would include two or

Se ib wanmrhsd Chie chur reece Ue tcuatdetelopenet cad Ter cas aaa a ne
Reercrthy political opposition within the country. He blamed this
Ly his on goverment and said that the announcement and explanation
to the people moe it appear that the Suiancse Goverssect hak teens ces eae

joann eee ee Pel a aS a



COnB-PoYoPB-L-T-E-Aek,
£0 PORT/NO DESSN AREOAD/LITEE@

: onan 00-B-3,117,579

Given ovny oconomte rights to tho U8 for US$30 miliioa. This falco iopresaien
and its offective ure by tho opposition, bo Felt, vould provant cecoptaneo of
Gay more ovth loang for c0n3 ‘tina to com.

COnH-Fol-D=B-T-Be look,

TO DISSE] ABROAD LORD



smreg

C-C8-P-T-D-BBAST ohh
™ nO Poau/aG DIesE @BRD/L OCTET”

PROCESS SHEET

Press Statemant of the Aubagsador of the Bepublic of tho
Buiso, Ibrabin Anio (Botan)

CComIAET tune, Tule, Cgoationy A
Bévard K. Kose
Public Relations
1025, ohare avers, BH. We

Attached vill net be reieased uxtil
efter 6:00 Pu, Tureday, 27 Hov 53.

“aeanen = md Feeaal

3 2040

FoR no.
# mov 86 25 Use Previous £D(TIOWS

eed

i.


&
a

Public Relations
1025 Connecticut, B. We
ington, Ds Ge
7

Tho'wajor US eoapany® mentioned in p rr
five, line ono, 1s The Koppers Cospany.
The "US technieal firm" mentioned in p

Moss otated that report aay be

& PF/EAD, 005: Sta
oe LS ocd.

by Liliian Tro on interonved party, | Bo

understands that some of thie background
information has been reported by her to
Mr. O'Rrien of the US Rabassy in Athens,

Fome xO oe
twovse 25 use previous commons



~ INFORMATION REPORT.

PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY .
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY”

of which Ip any eonnee to an wooulhortred per
‘i 200 be prohibited by lew.
toe

9 ~ yg 2387, 581__|

__19 Hov 58

WO. Oreacts «| NO UF ELS
2

a

Probleno of Renotivating Bank of Kios

‘DATE OF 1HFORWATION (Date or Gatea.ca or between WhMER. events ov comdciema ascribed ta Busronsve TO

PLAGE AND DATE ACQUIRED (By enarce)”

Nov 58 and earlier

THIS 1S UNEYALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE Certcer of a US publio relations firs which specialises in publicity for
foreign goverments and industries,

1. I have had several conversations with Lillian Kerika, a US citizen of
Grek desomt, who worked for Greex War Relicf and became friendly as a’
result with many important Greeke, After World War Ii she learned of
the Lank of Kios, which had been on effective organisation but had boen
caught in the postwar inflation ecd had become inactive, though not
liquidated. By negotiation with its private Greek owners she acquired
99.6% of the stock, and thereby cecme the first US citizen to control
a Groek bank through the instruzent of a New York City holding company,

2, The Bank of Kios owns, free and elear, two iron mines in Greece (one
about worked out and not now ecoraical, and the other rich in both iron
and nickel), an insurance company and soe real.estate in Greece, Assets
are estinated to be between 1523-5 million, The main problem is that
the bank owes the Greek Goverment US$1 million, but. 1s otherwise out of debt.

3. She attempted through various metiods and negotiations to reactivate the
good mine, She had surveys made, indicating good quality ore, and at one
‘tine had arranged with a Gernan ecncern to supply equiyment and technical
personnel in return for royalties cn ore produced, She also had dealings
with the French Banc du Nord for further financing, but learned that it
was fronting for a Communist organization which wanted to participate.
These attenpts have not succeeded to date because she could not conclude
any final arrangenents until the debt to the Greek Goverment had been

4 ‘Though many Middle East businesmzen would welcome a US-owed bank operating
4n Groece, she has been unable to obtain any medium or long range develojment
loans without exorbitant interest rates. One offer she has been hesitant

_ to accept cane from a Canadian fim, which offered to advance her US$650
‘thousand whieh vould settle the Goverment claim for US¢l million, In
return she would have had to agree to buy US$3 million vorth of gold
bullion owned by the Canadian firn in Mexico. The tersis were that she
would pay about US$31.50 per gold oxit , bring it to Greece and then
resell it to the Canadians at US$32.5C. She does not know the reason for
the deal except that possibly the Canadians wanted to transfer the bullion
to Isracl on a percentage arrangment of the sales price.

5. At one stage, a major US sospany [ _/ took tw’ thousand tons of iron
ore for testing in the US, and when it proved out well she thought she
would have a regular supply arrangecent. It turned out, however, that the
company bas a deal with Nierchos to supply Greek-made steel plate for his
new Greek shipyard, vith the help of another important US technical firm
These companies vere not interested in working vith her but
had other plans, She learned that they bad hopes of acquiring her mining
Property through the Greek Goverment. The syndicate officials did mest

arate Picesmsnenen haned t fall fae employees of CIA AEC ead FR: ond. wuble Biot cad Dotenae, t the iatelligynce composers. other oitees

EaiteD: Domes
Sem wis aleweats. end haber ochicas orth thelr tamediots cammartae @afts Wot to be disseminated te comsahonts emternat montanes ar mam

mg cersoe aneoap were



C-0-8-P-1-D-E-2-T-1-A-L

a“

_ RO FORSAIO DISS!

LIMITED

EM ABROAD,

00-A=3,217, 581

i
z
a
b>
?
4
i
3
3
é
ES
3
:
é
a
3
Rg
3
i
4a

EL Rea

SACLE etsy:

im |

C-O-I-P-J-D-E-B-T-IA-L,

NO PORK/Bo DISS aBROAD/DOWTrED



‘aml

~
T-D-B-H-T -I-A-1.

kground ef Kahgoub's Candidecy for Ui Presidency
and Boaction to Defeat (Satan)

anc es source

¥
We. BOUNCE Wome, Title, Ongeaiterions Addams oF" Newb
Edvard K. Moss
Public Relations
1025 coumectseve Avanve, N. W,
Washing

(eATHA DissratnaTion conTaoy,
AY O€ RELEASE OM MEO TO KHOW TOL

Tom wo.
twovse 25 use parvious comows

on


PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OO~ B-3,113,732
: : Dare pistaeuTES
|________2._ Oe }_
Background of Mahgoub's Candidacy for Ul ‘NO. OF PAGER tober 1958
Presidency and Reaction to lefeat eee

SUCPCEUENT TO REPORT @

water

‘OAT OF TATGRWATIGN [Dots or dalek ou of botwvve whith, o70al8 of coals Gers/ibed le
viewt) 16 Sap 56 and earlier
PUREE AND GATE ACQUIRED [Br poureel

16 Bep 58 ma earlier

THIS 18 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
‘]POURCE oeescer af a US public relations firm, which specializes in publicity for
foreign governments and industries,

Tas negotiated with the Sudanese for soma time about the possibility of
handling some of their public relations vork in the US.

For some tine I have mode overtures to the Ludanese cbout conducting public
relations verk in the US for their country. They regularly stated that they
would like such essistance but 414 not have the funds to aupport a proper
progrem. Early in Septenbor 1958 the tucanese Ambassador to the UB,
Torabim Anis, received a cable from Khartow: ordering him to do everything /)
possible to inform the U8 public in favor of the election of Mohammed Ahmed Mah
the Sudanene Foreign Minister, to the presidency of the 13th United Hations*
Generel Assembly. In thie, the Sudanese Covernment had two objectives - to
obtain this honor for Mabgoub and to call attention t> the Sudan and ite ciel
in world affairs. :

The Suden has endeavored. to maintain a position of strict neutrality since
obtaining its independence and has tried to avoid any foreign entanglezsnts.:
The main reason bas been that the Sudanese Covermment recognized the gravity
of the task of vital daxeatic economic development and felt that all energies
must be spent in that direction.’ It. joined the Arab League primarily frou the
standpoint of “brotherhood” but has still tried to remain completely neutral as
a nation. The fact that the Counci’ ef the Arab League decided to support
Mahgoud in the UN was based mostly on the fact that the Arabs considered
Charles Malik of Lebanon, the other major candidate, too pro-west and anti-Arab
4n his Views and orientation. |

In @ meeting with Mahgoub before the UH election, he commented that he. was,
purzled by the phobia of the US people over pan-Arab nationalism, Gamal Abdul.
and communism. He said that the US todsy equates Arab nationalism ard pride with
Nasirism, when in fact, Arab nationalism has been a fact for years before Hasir.
Edhar ead pedlpecord-p apt tier gliesan hee tad babel eta
personally believe that Nasir had organized actual plots to overthrov the _

Government.  Mahgoud also remarked on repeated offers of Soviet aid to
the. Sudan during the pest year. Be said that be had frequently challenged the
Soviet anbaseadér to be more concrete and had always been given sone sort of |
excuse. The ambassedor recently said unter 4 similar attack that be was going to
Moscow and would have something definite to say on his return.

During the period leading up to thedection, the majority of the Asian, Arab and
independent African states backed Mahgoub's candidacy because they considered bis
to be am unencumbered positon, vhile Malik has become identified with the US.

In addition, thie support vas given to prove, by his election, the emergence

of the influence of small nations in the UH, as differentiated from the current
leadership of the giants. Until Sunday, 14 Sep 58, the Mahgoub group had

Pledges enough to make it belicve he woul win. But at that point the US started
actively to cempaign for Malik, ‘This move vas resented by Mabgoub. Although he



3

. a C-O-H-Po*-Deb-WeT= Tear
NO FORA/BO BIRSIN ARROAD/LiNITED

"2 }0-n-3,113,732

recognized the UB need to bonor its pledge to support Malik, ne believed that
US activities far exceeded the conitnent-to Malik, The Suiarese, however)
vere not 00 irritated ao the Arab states, which folt that the US vas trying to
Influence them to desert the wan of their choice in favor of the US eelection,
They considered thie directly contrary to President Msenrover's suggestion that
the Arabs should do everything poosible to solve their ovn problems,

Mahgoubd told me he vas sure of thirty-nine votes, with five sore probables end
some additional posuibilities an hour before the olection, Tbe Scandinavian
countries informed him the day before that they would pot vote for Malik.
Sowth America had divided in opinion and would vot vote as a bloc. Of these,
Mahgoud hed six pledges of support but in the final count, he ended without a
single vote from Latin Americas as a result of vbat he called “threato" fron
the US. The Ghana delegate felt. that be had a higher duty then to support

tho UX, as 6 member of the Conmonvealth, in voting for Milik, Liboria hed

~ deen the first nation in Africa to back the Kieenhover Doctrine and to support

the US landings in Lebanon, but it too felt thet a neutrel uoderater should be
elocted, :

‘The Sudarese wera upect by the anti-Mahgoub mmors, which they are convinced
vere fostered by the US, that the Sudan is pro-cammunist and pro-Areb. These
tories were common in te UN in the final days before the vote and wont sc far
ao te say that Mahgoub himsel‘ was @ pro-Nasir stooge, despite his record.

"Fhe Sudanose do not consider themselves "neutral on the side of the USSR", and
in fact bave an effective anti-commnist liv. They feel that their country's
reputation was blackened unjustly by these rumors and the resulting election,
Tt may nev be hard to combat Soviet propaganda opportunities in the Sudan,
such as claims that the US opposed a black Moslem in favor of a white Christian
ani that the USSR backed the Sudan vhile the US supported the other side to
its ovm national interest. Mahgoub fears that it will be bard for the Sudanese
people to resist such propaganda in their disappointment at the outcome of the :
election, He 1s certain that the Sudanese papers will be full of Soviet-instigated 4
antt-U8 material aod the main job will be to “cool off” the public. :

Mabgoud believes that: the Areb nations will be most irritated at Malik's elect; oa ‘
Dut that it will take come tise to determine actual effects. He asked me whe! :
the US was interested in jus dustifying ite policy regardless of the

or was it truly interested in making friends in Africa. He felt that the 09'

had tmich possibly to lose and really little to gain by such apparent

in favor of one man, Malik, who {3 not even supported by his cun Lebanon, 7
ves \

in the US press. Shehab always issues public statements as vritten cammiques, -

vhich did not occur in this instance, A US correspondent bad telephoned Shehab

for a story and in conversation Shehab had casually mentioned that Malik was a
Lebdanees ani he wished him well. ‘The ultimate Pi farted Bat ert eadt

him rather than im anger; He and his colleagues had hoped to sain more vor!
Prestige and knowledge about the |, but now fear that its carefully fostered
neutral stance has been eclipsed by the stories that Mahgoub was pro-cammmist,



* Co OBaFot-De¥-H-Ta1-h
. “wo Yor /Ro Disses

x
So SoTACY Seems Fam Casares Aldea

Batinate of Finance Wnicter Cbedaenh (Gaza)

WORE Naw Wow ED
Bavard K, 3ped
Public Relations

D.C.
T FUR GSURCE Rome Tots O gonteatinns Adda

fexrea pisstnimation contmon
(may ot BrUsnsto Of NEED TO NOW TO!

we Fe camer

_ Fome ns

tov oe 25 vas vernous commons

1025 Cszresticut Whew) A AACR

vars
/ | gs | oarn | aes
# woe | ‘ae

n 7

os i

7 hana n

Torvoma COuNERT
OC le COL.
Ce a

‘aioe



1.

PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY

‘Tava OF oNPORWATICM [bite or Gaten on or Dolwoee WAR ovenis cont tons Gnscnbed ta Fopod
sted) Week of 27 Jul | eo7e. d
PLACE AND DATE ACQUIRED (By gource) a

SOURCE

“nan or Ti The tvo man are completely differert types vho need ond

the Finance Mintéter thinis favorably of some sort of an an Africen Federsticn but -
one of the few

3 = DS x CR APOMOT bs" FORBPECTR. CONTROLS,
a - nm mental contains information offecting te
INFORMATION REPORT

Movoeat betense of the United Stotee withis the
mecatg cd the Eaplonage Laws Tile 18. U.K,
Secs. 797 cod 784. the transmission of revelation
of which fo any monet to an vnduthortied pom

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 00 ts probibtted by law.
ara 3,200,707 i

Lear etmarto
13 August 1958

Rotizste of Finance Hinteter Gbedexsh : reat

THIS {8 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Officer cf a US public relations firm, which specializes in publicity for
foreign govermmento ond industries.

Wheo Evame Nknmah, Primo Minister of Ghana, planned to visit the us
(July-August 1958), I vas interested to see that Koule Agbeli Obodemah was not
dpeluded in the party. Be waa left at hase to “tend the store”, However, on
arrival in Washington, Nkrwaoh fod that the arrangements for US financial
@ssiotance were mot so far advanced #3 he had thought and requested that Gbedemah
fly over to attend mectings as Minister of Finance for Gheaz.

I bave koovn some time and understoni that he is really the "right

cComplemznt each other, There is no real love lost betveen them but both have a ©
great recpect for the other, The other ministers dislike Gbedemah for his
influence over the Prime Minister. Gtedemah admitted to ms that he can push
matters just so far in the otbor ministries and then must be extremely careful
pot to Lave his colleagues think he fe trying to intrude in their spheres of
influence. Hkrumah, too, 1s constious of this Jealousy and tries to conceal the
extent of the Finance Minister’s importance. It 13 very.cameon for Moumah to
Aiecusc a matter with a Hinistér and then turn to Gbedemah for his advice as veil.
At the conclusion of the visit to Washington, Mcrumah asked Ghedemah to
accompeny him for the rest of the trip, tut the minister refused, saying that
Nkrumab could do the hand shaking, but he thought it would be a waste of time
for himself and preferred to go beck to Ghana. Gbelemah 1s the only efficial vbo
would dere to refuse a Nkrumah request.

Gbedenah is an interesting personality, Be is very w-Africen ani is almost an
amalgea of Africa, the US ani Eurcps. He ia truly an intellect by African or
almost any standards, with wide ranging interests in many fields. The Minister |
is extrencly vell-read, spending two te four hours nightly with « beck. Bo
scoops up material of all kinds vberever he goes ani his powers ef retention are
excellent. His preferences are for information of « practical rather then
‘theoretical nature, and his thinking tenis to be tovards the possible rather

seeped Artal ractrasttee i

cnly in terms of the future, perhaps in 40-50 years, Be is one
African leaders who seems to recognize the eventual importance ef Migeriaafter
it achieves its independence. He realizes that one day it will exploit its aa
riches and be a real powes For the present be thinks that im independent Nigeria.
will not be a unffix nation initially, but actually three political mits of
the West, South and North, with a loose single goverment strucstiay on tep. The
central government will be weak and insffective for sone time for lack of :
experienced personnel and because of area rivalries, However, because of

‘s future potential, Qbedenah already makes a point of going out of his

way to cultivate Bigerians,



3.

C-OnMoPa1-D- SatoT-Ta fat
SC PORR/MO DISS:°1 aARGAD/LinmED {

: > 20 Yirte 3, LIGHT : {

Giodexrh, T fool, to bidiny mio edme owe tho Joay racgs, Bo vill .rtataly ke
& Fover‘to eet Africa, Although ha probably haa pernonal goles :
St presost:ba in ceot at hers en a bohind-tho-econes goliey moxar,
poouttility tact, in tho avout of tha fall eon power oe tho dows of Hua,
Bo might bece~a Prizo Mtalnter. ‘Gbedeash fold mo duriag his carrsot vinke
Mohingten that be feara Kojo Botato, ths Ninlotor of Beato, tases too meh $4
Fircmab'o reflected glory, Botolo apents rost of hin offort exerying Lovey vith

the Prim Miadetor amt hao rot been doveluying tho lerderohg 9
wa that bese

Rees.cory, (2ederah 10 concerned ovar what night happen with Betole as bol
of 0 Govarecent., although thare cocad be bo R9 doubt that Eots%0 fn gov th :

© eng o cy

