(104,40178-10137\_4 12022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 i

TIECRPLAS TOP AND BOTs.
oT] CONFIG Secu

ICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADORESS.

INITIALS.

NAME ANO ADORESS

C/NE Atte: Si Ao

C/FE atta: (fcc!

PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENOATION

RETURN
SIGNATURE.

DIRECT_REPLY
DISPATCH.
FE
INFORMATION

DIRECT REALE PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMEMDATION

Fe
INFORMATION

CONCURRENEE

Remarks:

1, Reforence DIR 92664 wont to certain
of your stations (list enclosed) by direction
of the DDP on 18 April,

2, C/CI requests that you sond one of
each of the two attached photographs of
Subject of reference to each station which
received a copy of our DIR 92664 by the
most expeditious means possible,

BY HAND

FOLO HERE TO RETURN TO SENOER
FROM: WAME. ADORERS ANO PHONE HO.

CI/OP Richard Ober x 6537 R 9477
UNCLASSIFIED
237 9 preres edeas

CONFIDENTIAL.

1. Reference DIR 92664 sent to certain
of your stations (list enclosed\by direction
of the DDP on 18 April.

2, C/CI requests that you send one of
each of the two attached photographs of
Subject of reference to each station which
received a copy of our DIR 92664 by the
most expeditious means possible.

BY HAND

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER,
NAMI. ADDRESS ANO PHONE WO.

CI/OP Richard Ober x 6537 R 9477

CONFIDENTIAL,

SECHET
coy

Font 1093.7 toe preriows editions



104-10178-10137

NE Addresseea of DIR

i

Peo Fan 7ae

VR


104-10178-10137

FE Addvessaes of DIR 92664 Me hart Ded ke
fSeremsk] 13-5" -
Fitenn Kong || pie ag ‘
(Feanita ] 13 - |
free 13-3



104-10178-10137

oo  Xse
| YBonota XSan Salvador
“Brasilia “Santiago

; Vfuanos Aires XSantiago De Los Caballeros!
X Caracas VGanto Domingo
i Georgetown Vsa0 Paulo,
xGuatemala City “Tegucigalpa
i

(Kingston
Wa pas
Xtima

eanagua

‘ Atonterideo

“Panama City

X Port au Prince

X Port of Spain

44



104-10178-10137

xc ne es ni

EUR Addressoes of DIR 92654

SS

Aoertta

Berlin.
ABern

XBrussets
Frankfurt
Sala
XGeneva
Virhe Hague
Hamburg

Vioodon
a

Wtadrid
—

Xtisbon

MEtunteh_.

‘Sttemn
~ Parte
Faris
VRome
Roma.
Vétockholm
YW tenna

Virwetch
fie

eon

7

at
\
bt ~ EEBRIIZ

a)


104-10178-10137

_ AEG MASP IOAe AND ROTTOR

inp) T custamestice [| stent

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

Tei iacs.

femarkar

1, Reference DIR 92664 sont to certain
of your stations (let enclosed) by direction
of the DDP on 18 April,

2, C/CI requests that you send one of
each of the two attached photographs of
Subject of reference ta each station which
received a copy of our DIR 92664 by the
most expeditious means possible,

BY HAND

FOLO HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADORESS AND PHONE WO.

CI/OP Richard Ober x 6537 R 9477

Remarkar
1, Reference PIR 92664 sent to certain

of your stations (list enclosed) by direction
of the DDP on I8 April,

2, C/Cl requests that you send one of
each of the two attached photographs of
Subject of reference to each station which
tecelved a copy of our DIR 92664 by the
most expeditious meane possible,

BY HAND

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SEROVAR
FROM: NaMe, ADDRESS ANO PreGne MO.

CI/OP Richard Ober x 6537 R W477
CONFIDENTIAL

ry

$00 209.37 Doe prmens eens

