# 104-10418-10034

## Page 1

1704-10418-10034

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

26 March 1968

CSCT 316/01213-68, 26 March 1968, to FBI

Subject: GARRISON and the KENNEDY Assassination: Interview of

GARRISON on Dutch TV by William Leonard OLTMANS.

""-*

---

## Page 2

13-00000

5'April 1968 (date of report)

24

reported that "OLTMANS, who previously produced

a commentary on the murder of KENNEDY is still working on this matter

in cooperation with Jim GARRISON.

He claims to know who the KENNEDY

murderer was. In connection with thsi OLTMANS has been the guest of

an "oil millionaire" in Texas.

According to OLTMANS he was invited there

because of 'his knowledge of the affair'

and the fact that he would be

able to act as a medium

to bring the facts to the world.

At his request

Jim GARRISON has provided him with

a body guard while working

on this

matter.

In Texas it appeared to him that the group who had financed

KENNEDY's murder had had a deep seated quarrel and had fallen into two

groups.

Some details regarding this affair have come to light and it is

seriously being considered to bring them to the publicavia a lV broadcast.

OLTMANS is going to dicuss this with NTS

to bring then

and bring it

about.

(ONHA)35638, 11 June 1968

22

Has been

described in files as one who spends considerable time in the

United States organizing sensational anti-American TC programs or shows

of the most vicious tyne to he shown on Dutch TV (for example see Ghe

Hague 3870 reporting OLIMANS' interview of District Attorney Jim GARRISOV

20-6

3/nd

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Майниї

Cultural Attache, USSP. 'Embassy The Hague: , KUZNETSOV 101-759245

Press Attache Holy dep)

_OPALEY

dicolay:

IZ#F.KOV

101-880054

201-1996:6

GISHIANI - chairman of the

State Committee for Science and Technology and is

suspected of heing a highly placed intelligence

officer.

suspect?

1 February 1972

To: FBI (COpy to SY/PERS, State)

Subject: Willem Leonard OLTMANS

24

1

The following information was received from a

regarding subject.

From 23 to 26 January 1972

subject visited the liSt

•R to make final arrangements for an ecology film

he plans to make in

the soviet Union.

He claims to have met with Premier

KOSYGIN's son-in-law, German Mikhailovich GVISHIANI while in Mostow.

OLTMANS plans to depart for the United States on 6 February, where he will

remain until 8 March. On 12 March he plans to depart for an undetermined

stay

in the WISSR.

2.

In addition to interview with Hack ANDERSON OLT-

MANS plans to make a film interview with Philip HANDLER, Chairman of the

National Academy of Science.

Suhject intends to make a

combined filmed

portrait of HANDLEP and his

Soviet counterpart M. V. KELDYSH. He also

intends to meet with Howard JONES, former ll. S. Ambassador to Indonesia

and

current chairman of the hoard

of the Christian Science Monitor.

DIRECTOR 228058, 1 February 1972

---

## Page 4

13-00000

22 February 1968

OLTMANS interview of Jim GARRISON broadcast on NTS. It is not known

whether GARRISON travelled to The Hague or whether the show was taped

in the United States and sent on tape to Holland.

The latter seems

probable, especially since the press did not report travel outside the

United States hy GARRISON.

GARRISON calm and composed, was sufficiently credi-

ble to elicit rather favorable reviews from generally well-informed Dutch

newspapers.

Several Dutch viewers also commenetd on the credibility of

his person

and presnetation. It is likely that the NTS will try to sell

this program to other Furopean countries.

GARRISON repeated well-known thesis that KENNEDY was the victim of

"President Kennedy was killed by elements of the Central

IntellIgence Agency fof the United States Government."

....wánid

---

## Page 5

13-00000

• 21 January 1972

To: FRI; Info SY/PERS, INR of Department of State.

Subject:

OLIMANS

24 1. The following information was received from a

regarding subject. Efforts by subject to discredit

and embarsass the NATD Secretary General and former Dutch foreign minister

Josef LUNS, are continuing.

sent a letter to the Dutch Attorney General demanding the prosecution of

Luns on the grounds he deliberately misled the former Dutch Prime Minister

Willem DRIFS with respect to LUNS' policy toward the question of West

Guinea.

Although not

directly connected, subject's latest move follows

information. that

which had been stored at his for-

2.

In order to gain further publicity in his cam-

paign against LUNS, OLTMANS held a press

conference on 20 January 1972.

This press conference, held in subject's

alartment, was attended by seve-

cal leading nutch journalists as well as three soviet dinlomats, who arc

identified as suspect KGB officers.

> 4

3. The

reported that subject

plans to make a film in teh Soviet Union and that subject has a five-year

retainer from the Soviet Union as an overt Public Relations man.

Suhject

also has a close relationship with Premier KOSYGIN's son-in-law, German

Mikhailovich GISHTANI, who is reportedly hehind OLTMANS' invitation to

make the ahove film in the Soviet Union and interview several prominent

Soviet scientists.

24

4. The

) reported that subject

plans to visit the linited States circa 6 February 1972, and among others

he plans to meet with Washington columnist Jack ANDERSON.

DIRFCTOR 223994, 21 January 1972

SIPV

---

## Page 6

13-00000

14 Necember 1971 To: Inartment of State (SY/PERS) Info: FRI

Suhject: WhOltmans

1.

On 10 Decemher 1971, it was reported by al

that William Leonard OLTMANS (who has been the suhject

of previous CIA and FBI reporting) was attempting to obtain in the near

future, State Department classified documents via an

American contact,

PNU JONES.

Said documents concern conversations between John Foster DULLE

former Dutch Foreign Minister Josef LUNS, and former Dutch Ambassador to

the United States, J. H. van

ROIJEN, on

the topic of New Guinea and Ino-

Indonesia.

2.

According to source, OLTMANS is currenty attem-

pting to embarrass and discredit LUNS.

DITMANS already has iNk$ inspired

a recent anti-LUNS article entitled "Has LUNS Mis-Led I's"

Toris van der BERCIN and printed in a sensationalist Dutch wewspapby one

Vrij Nederland.

Source speculates that fnu JONFS mentioned above, may

be former US Ambassador -o Indonesia, Howard JONES, as source has

estah-

lished that OTLMANS and Howard JONES

met during Septemher 1971, in Boston.

Given his bakkground of heing a leftist- Anti-American

journalist, should

OLTMANS obtain the above mentioned classified material, source feels

OLTMANS would use it to puhlicly embarrass all parties

concerned.

DIRECTOR

(Not sent ?)

10 and 2N January 1972

10 and 20 January issues

of the Dutch paper "De Telegraaf" carry articles

exposing activities of Dutch journalist Willem L. OLTMANS who engaged

in denigration campaign against NATO Secretary General and former Ducth

Foreign Minister Josef LUNS.

Stories accuse Soviets of collusion with

OLTMANS and of interference in Dutch internal affairs, and imply Soviet

encouragement of OLTMANS' campaign against LUNS in

order to discredit

LUNS in his current role as NATO Secertary General because LUNS opposes

Soviet desires for early convocations European Security Conference.

DIRECTOR 226050, 25 January 1972

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Farly 1972

Early 1972 report stated OLTMANS was attempting to have the government

prosecute LUNS for "lying

and misleading the Government" on Indonesia

during his tenure as foreign minister.

The 19 and 20 January 1972 issues

of the Dutch paper De Telegraaf carry articles exposing activities of

OLTMANS who engaged in a denigration campaign against LUNS. Stories

accuse Soviets of collusion with OLTMANS and of interverence in Dutch

internal affairs.

4 March 1977

OLTMANS and de MOIIRENSCHILDT traveling in Brussels. De MOIRENSCHILDT

disappeared, leaving suitcases and clothing behind.

State Message (1261), The Hague, 10.3.77 (NG 59235)

---

## Page 8

13-00000

•3

March 1977

OLTMANS brought George de MOIIRENSCHILDT to The Netherlands for meetings

with NOS TV Chief of Programming

and leading Dutch puhlisher.

State Message (1261) The lague, 10.3.77 (NG 59235)

15 March 1977

Willem OLTMANS has been asked - or has asked - to testify before the

House

Assassinations Committee.

In conversation with USIS officer,

OLTMANS claimed to have major news from Dallas. He said he was taking

Dutch television films and video-tapes that have never been shown to

the committee.

State

Message (NC 59235), The Hague, 10 March 1977 1261

---

