# 104-10297-10292

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10297-10292

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

д0÷1s

UNITED STATES DEPAKTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BURNAU OF INVESTICATION

In Brijay, Irase Rofor to

file ia

105-53J95

Date:

To:

IASHINCTON ES D.C.

BY LIAISON

8417 Tom:

Subject:

May 12, 1961

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

John algar lioover, Director

CUBAN SITUATION

INTERNAL SUCUKITY - CURA

reporter for the "New York Journal-Ancrican,"

on May 8, 1951, fürnished the following

infomation:

The reporter stated he had recently been in

Miami

Florida

covering, the Cuban invasion and had spoken to

many Cuban exiles and personal sources.

as a result

cane

to the conclusion that the invasion had icen badly

he

andled by the Central Intelligence Agency (ClA) from every

aspect.

lo stated that some of the exiles were of

the uninion

that the invasion was doomed

to failure by design on the

part of CLA and they are holding ClA responsible.

The reporter stated he was able to ascertain from

for the invasion.

Avignon and a

in the Dominican Republic.

at the United States imbas heard that one frank Berder of

additior,

he stated he had

CIA WaS

also anong those

responsible.

The above-mentioned reporter identified two of his

sources of the foregoing infomation as forer Colonel cariano

raget and linrique Paragon, wio were forierly connected with the

Burcau for the Repression

of Connunist Activitics (BRIC) in

Cuba.

BRAC wes an active organization in Cuba during the

liatista regiac.

Keportedlj

the reporter checker the above-

mentioned

In enpinyces with laget win amparently maintained a

file on the subject.

laget alleged ly veritied the infomation

the repurter hai

concering the part plajed is these

inlividuals in tie invasion.

19-134-25

---

## Page 2

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

The reporter stated he had discussed the role of

CIA in the invasion with Senator

indicated that scator hocus or ourse Smacker senate

subcommittee

in the near

tutore call in demete bars the coste

icaling with the involvement of CIA in tie invasior.

This is for your infomation.

---

