# 104-10004-10248

## Page 1

1104-10004-10248

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

FROM:

INCIDENT REPORT

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

Ne Orwald

DATE

TIME

1 December 1963

2030

NAME _

John Lo DOnOVAN

2009 Balmont id. No Wo

Washington 9, D. C.

INCIDENT.

Telophone oal1

GRADE NA

+5101 332-7717

TIME

0937

OFFICE

W/A

_PLACE -

Washington, De Go

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: Donovan called to report that he knew and worked with

Lse Harvey. Oswald for & nine month parlod while fulfilling his nilltary

obligation in the Spring, Sunner and Fall of 1959. Donovan advised he may

possibly be of ansistance 1n providing names and eto.. of Oswalds Intimate

roquaintances during that period. Subjeot further advised that he has not

discussed his knouledge of Oswald with the FBI or the seorot sorvico as at thia

time. Donovan la presently attanding leorgetom Unfveralty uhile teaching at

AscAnsion Academy. He may ba contactod any avening after 6100 PoM. at tra

above address. Donovan related that he 18 & former FBI employes having worked

there from June 1953 to 1956. It l8 also noted that advance knoulodgo of thie

call was received from NSO John Morotil and Major A. F. Boland, Agonsy employees,

who aro both mambers of Capt. John E. Donovan's USNOR unilt.

ACTION TAKEN:

Contasted Charlie Kans, OS, who requested that this report

ho prepared and submitted so that the load may be turned

ovor to the FBI through offloial channelo.

This Came out in.

the fa bee

joy 13 DC

100

Googh w. Diffe

REPORTING OFFICER

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD/SEC (PPS), DD/SEC, OR D/S

COPY: EAB/PD

FILE: BSB/PHYS. SD

1 cy. C/SRS

-ORM 1798

CONFIDENTIAL

(36)

---

