# 104-10074-10140

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10074-10140

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET •

(When Filled in).

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

A.

FIELD

OFFICE

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

9.RES. CODE

11.:2 13114 15

c.

CASE

NUMBER

16/17/18

11920

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

FORWARDED

REPORT NO.

A jE

MO.

DA.

Y RI

A

22 23

24

251

26

27

281

29

.30

3132

33

34

351

36

_Ü

3

D. SUBJECT AND AREA

Private Intelligence Service Operating in South America

and Central America

§ 1l

EXTRA.

DISSEM.

RECORD

37

38|39

RELEASED

мо.

DA

YR

40\411

42

431

44

(Argentina/Chile/Panara/Equador)

E. CONTACT (Name, Title, O:sanization, Address)

AnselLo ALLIEGRO

3550 Rockerman Road

Coconut Grove, Florida

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

F. SOURCE (Name, Title, Orgenization, AUdress)

Sane

INDIVIDUALNO.

G. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

HETURN TO CLA

Background USE MEATION NO.

Do Not Reproduc

NOR DUAL NO

45

TYPE OO-E

461

GRAPHICS,

MAPS,

PUBLICATIONS,

REPORTS, OTHER

SUBJECT

SUFF|-

48

49

50

CIENTLY

WELL

KNOWN

2. TOO

GENERAL

•3. DATA

SUPPLIED

4

BY OTHER

AGENCIES

$. gTHER/MISC

5. COMBINED WITH

6. INSUFFICIENT

INTEREST

NOT

DISSEMI

NATED

AREA

52|

53

54

S

N'T

ORGANIZATION NO.

•M

H. METHOD OF COLLECTION

EVALUATION

REQUESTED FROM

AINTERVIEW

TRIP REPORT

OTHER DOCUMENT

OTHER (specify below)

USSR ONLY

EXCHANGES

(CHECK ONE)

NO

TO USSR

FROM USSR

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC

REQUIREMENTS

ALIEN

OSS

INT

DIRECTEDTO

FIELD COMMENTS

CASE OFFICER

(eGross)

Intelligence Service Ltd., seers like

an interesting organization. Anselmo

said that Van Cleave is all business

i business

and if Van Cleave is telling the truth

his organization has sore money behind

it. Van Cleave does one heck of alot

of travelling-

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

Matt,

Sone Information in this report looks

valuable. However, ve are returning this

OO-A(5) to Miami with the reguest that you

submit the information via memorandu.

We checked with the office of Security

bat it bas no inío on vas Cleave.

You might min wait until you meet

Alliegro agais in December and see 1f

Van Cleave has any new information to

add.

Many thanks for your support in Miam;

keep those reports coming in.

, NOT TO BE

DISSEWALATED

567

110 8/

E2 IMPDET CL BY 007022

MCNacVanegLjh

FORM 25°3 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

F.O. CHiEF

BEMA INWARING

2:

03

H041

CASE OFFICER

EBAmes

SECRET

DIVISION/STAFF/DESK

OSS

(20-41)

GROUP I

EXCLUDED FROM AUTONATIC DOVIN-

3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ELLIGENCE

CLASSIFICATION

S-E-G-R-E-T

DIRECTORATE OF

INTELLIGENCE

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Argentina/Chile/Parone/Squador

Private Intelligence Service

Ogerating in Souty Auerica its

Central America

REPORT NO.

DATE

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

33115-73

00-A(S)-322/

7 Noverber 1973

OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

This report has been prepared/by the DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE, DDI. The operational information contained

herein may not be disclosed tó personnel outside of the CLANDESTINE SERVICE, CIA, without the prior permission

3

2

12.72:

On Friday " Novenber 1973 we received a telephone call fron Anselno

Alliegro and agreed to reet with him later in the afternoon at the

Holiday Inn, Coral Gables, Florida.

Anselro Alllegro has been the

source of OOA(S) 322/16870-73 and COA(S) 322/17013-73. Alliegro is

independently wealthy as his father had been in a high governuent

position during the Batista regime in Cuba and apparently left the

country with quite a bit of money. Alliegro does not have a Job

presently, but has told us he is looking for work. He does own a

tuilding or two in Miani and apparently has otherthöldings that

provide his with a handsore incore.

Alllegro said that he had sore

inforsation that we would find interesting.

Whea we set with Alliegro

on the afternoon si 2 ovenber 1973 he said that he had been approached

sy one Steve Van Cleate of Intelligence Services Ltd., which is based

in Atlanta, Georgia. Van Cleave bad telephoned Alliggro end

to reet with him in Miant soretice in late Dotober as he was on his

way to South America and had sosething inportant to discuss with

Alliegro before he leit. Alliegro stated that he spent the better

fart of one day with Van Cleave.

Van Cleave told Alliagro that he

ran a business called Intelligence Services Ltu., and that a lot of

US corporations and private citizens had invested a great deal of

coney in the success of this Iutelligence Service, Van Cleave said

that Intelligence Services Ltd., was an information agency that passed

detailed information to US corporations that operate in South America,

Central America, and sooa the Caribbean area as well. Van Cleave

said that in South America US corporationa were minly interested in

labor parents and that his service would infiltrate the Cormunig:

labor groups and report on their trends of thought and the directions

they planned to take an issues.

Alliegro said that Van Cleave told

him that his servied already had a South Aterican and Central Anerican

branch and that it is running extrenely well.

Van Cleave told Alliegro that he wanted to seet with him because he

was interested in setting up a Miami branch office of his service that

would handle the Caribbean area.

He said that his organization had

well edocated people in their analytical end and sone extremely

talented overatives to handla their operations and covert end of the

business.

Van Cleave hinted to Alliegro that in South Anerica

CiA people vere moonlighting for his organisation.

Fan Cleave asked

for Alliegro's aid in setting up the Miami office. He said that he

wanted Cuban help for the security aspects of the Miani office, but

that he would staff the office with his own people. Alliegro said

that Van Cleave empbasized that US corporations were very interested

in the Caribbean area and for that reason he is setting up the branch

NOT TO BE

DISSEMINATED

CLASSIE:

-I.

• ств..

3216 EDITIONS S

EDITIONS

2

1101

---

## Page 3

14-00000

00- A(5) -322/85115-73

S-E-C-R-E-I

3.

-2-

office in Miani. Van Cleave told Alliegro to think about the idea and

he would return after his South inerican trip sometine in Decerber to

begin work on the Miani office.

Alliegro said that. Van Cleave had been in Chile just prior to the coup

that over threw Allende. Alliegro said that Van Cleave apparently has

some very ggod contacts acong the police personnel in several different

He has been doing sowe extensive traveling to Argentina

lately and apparently has good trea in Equador.. Vau Cleave said that

on this trip be would be in Argentina and Panana.

Van Cleave die sake

@ point of telling. Alliegro that the US corporations were interested in

weekly reports.

Alliegro said that Steve Veil Cleave is a Texan, about forty years of

age and stands about ais foet tall. He is heavy sat and preseutly sakes

his home in Atlanta.

Alliegro said he would proviva us with nore infor-

ration in Decesber wheu Van Cleave returns and begins to set up the

- end -

S-F-CRE-T

NOT TO BE

DISSEMINATED

25695

---

