# 104-10105-10207

## Page 1

104-10105-10207

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

HRG Record Print

File Title:

Job Num:

Location:

Box Num

Vol/Folder

Title:

Printed on: 9/16/1998

1993.08.11.14:03:44:460005

JFK

80T01357A

HRG

JFK37

F23

OFFICE NOTES RE WERBELL.

Title Res:

Date of Document:

Status:

From:

From Res:

TO:

To Res:

Pages:

brigi lostication: 204

Last Reviewer

ReView Date

Exemptions:

8/28/1976

1A 1B

Medium:

Last Inputter:

NARA Comments:

Agency Comments:

release

release Date

Doc Num:

Keywords:

OFFICE

allent

Duplicate Document Of:

1C .

3

4

ARRB

25-Aug-1998

OSS DETAIL

ERBELL, N

FFICE NOTE

Res:

Component Review Info

COMPONENT DATE TASKED

DATE REVIEWED

Sent to NARA:

Agency Name:

Agency Number:

Disk Number:

Control Number

Y

CIA

104

10105

10207

RESPONSE

127-71

APPEAL DATE

DECISION

CIA HISTORIC:

-9924

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

SECRET

1993.08.11.14:03:44:460005

---

## Page 2

: 201y

Batista agu

#DR.

forus to pay

- No

Ol it the

4 Ari

nep to hi dont Miami (Manil Fili stone)

POIt

13./459-

Sculled Fat ris.

26A4

24.147

for Fo took ly sery

Ra Batiste ass the dight

stagey at Bilte shiel

"Jinit DReI" wit mie?

toled a told you to you

his Gleichauf, do Contrets

**1.

get Batist i 4S.

TA. TFA Pendent to get

Devilfait, Corting

PR. prospect on not goal Dre

but could chitoke top a we

pall. - Nocl, hotip)

(old news)

(2). Veneguaken gert.

dormal In anne fistry?

touch.

(3)

• Loited to go Die & lou

I Do you own they.

Told to reverse clingers of to dells

Rital regent 6 get 113 I do Sty

4 RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Oniy

& Do Ngt Reproduce

---

## Page 3

14.00000

Sit, Cald 95e2t

* RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce.

in Alt, Cry Wei DR?.

55 7 astel to go to dom it li

ey. to get here data -ested Adin

a told the cat spy a lage att

as loe to len but in frisite.

ben touch when had an it use

Needs $ to fi tips -

*Grif - put to und a cut of

Tormate cortocto

@ motivation lost lse

Paper one ali ta

• his access to infis on Cir

TF. tolk da plow -

pushmi, is in of cula opportun

ry cises fa. Die.

Told.

alto Concilentin

rish to his, costs o effeut th to

"No toch' t this Suggest Apt.

Ju d data origin in States,

---

## Page 4

14.00000

manague

Tos. re 59man First

ad Pres 7 Xp ut commis Titane 41d0

Nassua - il Nato Suplus Arns So

I internationd invent se if borld wile

Insp. Service

ift of

14, Bey 62

attept Sill fire tun hA.

l'Unte gengut f He Liberation of Cubi"

icusst millin 6 Caber Thed fuel Sit.

cale et font ali il repol.

Disp Si in bust. Sing 62/ Sept or

---

## Page 5

14.00000

*

18. 04762

i7 RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

stop to lay

42 T-34 A (13) Anx.

1+057 diet.

Anti lostro: forces

Alledged A in volunt,

Rited IFB

Dominge

17 Doc 763

Dispauch. for Santo Teeny

" atro busines - Clair'

The Send ness -

Ge hem Donovan

ides futer o to nest

•Doe

Feb'et

encorth

Derts -

I Do when tot fit is scanned

Sept 65

atting sesame les chitt

---

## Page 6

Sam. Sheris-?.

921 - 6590.

139

" RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

shes

• Do Not Reproduce

Mitchell Lwingston Wer Bell. III

Dob.

8 mas 1918., Philca. Pa.

Fr. John Mitchell Workell.

Ms.

Rea Giodich

Hilde gande Elin. Herasnerich.

(marind 4 Sip. 42)

45A - Sis, Corp.

250/943.

em.

andit.

1221 du 444 Commission Sig!

detailed

055.

6 Jily 45

Soldier Reled. 1st

Reture, 27 Bee 45 promdelto 1511

Trp. to Dominican Papiblic.

cutons wantin to stut Cuba.

Oried to come to Det dis as (watted sone

itS Handt Sappe

Man Brutus no strip MeDR.

PO A

03

to por

221y 59.

f. J. Florif net

tok to salle.

(Trip to Down Refille

To SuBatista - PRE

Leany Bet.

Pohutenal to det as go litan i

col

Setty up Pin force of Dit: Corto force.

IX Phone fun GiA - Where Stage Nock Chandler

Wint to go to DRI astel for Costet the

was tell Ashis aware - requinedit Couplet cl

¿fes sitters. S" Remar of Botrita tys Trita 115

---

## Page 7

14-00000

I RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

I Do Not Reproduce

26 myse - Bingkak

Clan of retird Cal. - Night that

Chal dEA

Theask

Pouch fur Borkuk: 30 le'64

Simmy the t

ops agent Duvaliers regimen Hati

for comers

parre hope to chine pusana an his this

fren

on 28 hum. adoisd thind it in for theit

plat had Fund burty.

23 Felo 11 dato

OGC

tate

# → misut.

---

## Page 8

2 RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

a Do Not Reproduce

17Ay3?

16-3.

le Summy of Cortet

2

may 73

Suing of fouch 27Apu23

Rept of 2Ams - anti Bukomes actinter

GOBI

- 4pV

GOBI rey agring:

Aprice.

Port Louis re Mility monit

Sconies) (Shitis i Gueritions Physte

& Insurgency ant. Countu Subversion

Merged 19ç0 W/ Quantum dance Bondi

Creekig

battis

Red That

---

## Page 9

14-00000

* RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

lu Do Not Reproduce

4p8/33 -1pot. of auth tape S Thiin iene.

I ivasin of AtsA do

S hos Closs 3 Fel Anes Laikn.

Aht.

- Batonios

'8 Jon'74 - DOD 7o Maimi -

itir" atenth doepet ipne comitent?

DeDRRt. Cortsti Doe 373

Se Bod Bunr Aboco Moct

21 Fel 74 RRt re Binttil

,Beunitt B.

pas Quaititzen cop

Nowou..Df Systas Titer

Pres. is Paul 1. Rougtin (UStighn,

Be sonn tow ofs

---

## Page 10

ser.

11 de 6.

* RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

.* Do Not Reproduce

-Connet duy Rolando Mantener

I hats infe afp oe the pes,

Froncois. Did Duval in of Hait!

(RO 12 67)

Anestel Custon in tRae Fla, Jon'61

le attept to nivo de Haiti

w/gp Haitians + Cebono.

- To Bruce Arman BAKER

minnesota

1t of webel reciti to

fly porcin

18, Mero Bugo Twee My.

UP. of Somics - small Ans w/ Seppiesin

Livia.

#51

(alleges borg any cores a 055)

26 hoy'69 Sonias Plan for Corte menguy

to Thinkan Dow

---

## Page 11

¡ RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Apt on arein the parts plon.

implied requent

appeal a queen lied

Dee 65 Cortist Bout Goals

i/ 20 Cutons i Cuba

57 riter DUS.

wonted see his fu A.

(could use denotitist Anna)

No everyt gun.

Oft of butte. Maide

also of ted Costicks if Press bys

Iz

I Sly Plat to or this to of Desi it

Haiti

H. Counsel-Guel, Ny helpig-

On to San

#4. mast.

---

## Page 12

14-UUU0U

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

a Do Not Reproduce

lord Port 23 115

I devises toes

to pentate Meged dang ops.

Jan 15-FiBI. Clle.re S -

'Ass. Nations

---

## Page 13

14.00000

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Mor 85- not it. Masker is timed

The Aet

9 ta15.

a be to into set a

lordig of 36 hen i Or late dil, 23,

Hers; taBle, 6224425

Wally Gillis, Pick Steven

tom. Jordar

Stly 25

Aft. op. Revert i Bayand

Cal U54 Ret KIll

comeded: 157. Buy Brigade. 487 Di

jent 8 DR A Kup peace $ 1966.

My This: + 29 75-55441-75

agreed to guit tins tale f he could Sell

gous singed

$325,000 (2000)

---

## Page 14

2 Dir 75

/ RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

LaDe Not Reproduce

Geo STRATOS - Silliy que.

to y prote

460) m-60 Most

Atty. Somenl

loat indochine.

SCRIVENER, LE

wash sty Iplied A - 1250 62

armentent

Illers

to runt

---

## Page 15

14.00000

• RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

LaD0 Not Reproduce

14 Dry 74 - IX fur Muldern

respite to Boden

31 Guj24 bucky W/Ruzzos

Warle to Attery I Sill Are to Desi

Torted Russos to goalong:

see Y fits (417) told fren

Iden 25 fun FBE - (TRAK)

seekig ams fou S: - M-10 SitA

A Col. Lucin Conei

"Mise Monter

Wol Sly News. 23 m15

To Plates mit Ven. Eil Krog

10/ chores

Colson

---

## Page 16

I8 this smar't.

I RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

# Do Not Reproduce

Window

Mild olice -ang fou

Corder City Are.

10/ Area 66s Pote

Set up Feast, forcite Intent.

anti audio sup E Elia Sunil

evictised

He store

opo

1110

REt.

to FBI

Lit turne

- Michel Oliven -(Mozes hits

11 Rec 28

Muldon, Prousse, Mickin

#9

22ll, 73 Ket a Van Chave Cortst 24 lini

un D. Pany burm

26 Jimm

11.4

As ton oss mihy a the fin DE E

---

## Page 17

1z.ti.

masfesen

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Oniy

DO Not Reproduce

23 Icl folhes up S Gorund wohy

no che custie ed Dry

X3FatlT 27Fe6:67- Incetad Fed Shandjuy

le armad in vosion of Hoiti jor Fla

raba s

2 mi62: Celtidt Soy Changes chophed

15 ty 809 - hoeil 8SE Agt. Vizital

Twast of Suty.

Tmor 11

TharI - Sto Gleichamf

le DED - svrritan of el

ciskelfs help - fight to Jup it

"Chohis vron-"

got hassinge.

Then dhel topyeno po pr

os ktoiti eve. Hhugh Nrs farver.

i prion

Told wrandd aneuhd but hot tes

boole for it or on oun bah lf.

---

## Page 18

14-00000

/ RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Oniy

A do Not Reproduce

Mr. um. Frazier, Leisure City, The.

Fel 10, 69 - DeD.

4Cl USA (Pet) pilot.

---

## Page 19

14-00000

Th

Net

19305

921-6590

CRes.

Weill

128

Im Marts Bell

& My, HI

Gauld Whip

NARCCHIONET

Joha

NAR01 11/34/160

motor

Briti

Fo-Kli 100024.

Rised Diad Thorp Att

aka Thoupe

R1778

Background Use Oniy

A Do Not Fleproduce

---

## Page 20

14.00000

"* RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

L Do Not Reproduce

EGleich.

No Corted by les.

17 Tuls

intutto invedi dub 3-4 ton 6e

Gruatemala.-

28 oct 166

nfo. Intesion of Heit: (10060)

Rolando Masperie -

- Falle rept- Clage plans

23 N0U66

-Called off.

18. Feb, 67

- Tx. Call fous re

Chet Say i rot. ie

assimation of relitter il

mittle east tuter.

---

## Page 21

? RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

. Do Not Reproduce

n FEra.

119.

5 hher, 24,

lohe e Steven Van Cleave

riit of tal St0. Argen Yria

• Ce t ein cutanl u /is

legen seatne

GLFBI- Herad Siton -Cirtul

Troest Dyery?

Gif Jet i Dd berg leand ly cr.

for 4p. (Coriin)

Seon spredif bhey to itres

At 10 Varlen Count

---

## Page 22

Render-

8/27

9126

"Of Sen ty

Secuity Artie, N.C. Achi

Saty Led te die de it

Compete- some CK. mber

I Suit. -

a refund (indeed)

Othe wise hot rattematt

otte went - not on people

Not Appliests

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

LOBO Not Reproduce

295-1241 Penter it

---

