i
|
i

Eevew eats tues

*

wuef of Oa ae cry | Siler

to fapbingtom: 1-5 May 1972 ——
WB :
Wet erence: SUXXICO crregiesn of 14 Apral 1872

. Ia the reference, we listed the menbare of the cclegation
frow Ya American Chanber of Cogperce of Mexicd>to the annual

eee tiseyof the American Chanbéytn Washiagtoa in 1$71.. to

Uae ret that pretty mccs tS@ seme party will attesd this yeear,”'
prodably_eith che addition of Prank Loretta, bead of Dupoat of
Wextco, re 4a president thia yeaF> o7

2. tgata, 1 ecvid 1ike te sek you to give them a luncheos,
werting ac yuu C1¢ lastoyear. Trat-ves.

vory successful afte
ih: omiy criticad commeat T bad trol] ecutive iat | x
xr. Jar Pichtrica,|¥de that ope rao imed to talking io tae

Person next to Gre, rather than there betsg general couversation.:

te Jic not sees to cocsider this tuporteant but I pass it om. to you.
in case yeat wast to consider sone different forma! tor. tke -get-*
tosocher.

i
Ercotrick{eb J-told him.of what you bed done 4 fe
od intetested {= participating. Also, Wicatr‘ cA

weic inet during the course of:.the-weekcthe :Beed -of. 1

ie batts Aner: would. discourse ca tie giteation jp his ors
be OFrieated to the commeTcial and tavestacs::.-
pect but would clearly. be of intereat to eome:of you at Poms.
cpr can ietiors for some of you to attend.

aon ica mh ih lows too briefly for ms. to.

sentria inks that the afternoon of Tuesday, 2 Bay,” :{°
will ne ge for jas meeting vith you oll. It will be great.|
4f you can do this again. I shall let you know where be will:da

staying. :

4

Roger T. KINGHAE
-Distrtpution:

espn!

ae Liataeaes a

