oe Gey OS, CHS

PRIORITY MEX
LC IMPROVE wv
REF: KEX! ess) an 40400 ;+

1. ALTHOUGH LEONOY >XYERKSTING TARGET WE CANNOT GUARANTEE
SUBJ OF REF THAT CONTACTS WITH THE SOVS EVEN IY UNGER OGR AUSPICES
WOULD KOT JEOPARDIZE HIS CHANCES TO OBTAIN SECCRITY CLEARANCE
NEEDED FOR GOVT POSITION. WS ARE REQUIRED TO INFORN ODENVY OF
SOV CONTACTS WITR PRPRIME CTIZENS WHEN THE CITIZEN RETURNS TU
PEPRIME. IF QUESTIONED BY OTHRR ODYOXE AGENCIES RE SUBJ RB PART
OF NORMAL SKCURITY SNUBSTIGATION WE COULD EELATE YaCT THAT SUB!
WAS MEETING SOV8 AT OG EXAALY ASD GIVE TREN ESTIMATE OF 'BUBI'S
LOVALTY AND His COWWiSUT!O8 TO US. WE COULD ALSO GIVE SAME
TYPE DATA TO AGENCIES WiTH WiIGH SUBS 18 APPLYING Por Exptonewrt
AT OUR OWN INITITIVE. VEN .F OUR ASSESSMENT WAS FAVORABLE WE
CAN OLY RECOMMEND AND CANNOT DICTATE PERSONNEL AKD SECURITY
POLICIES OF OTHKR AGKNCIES. WE MAY MOT BE ABLE TO CONVENCE
OTHER AGENCIES THAT SUBJ 18 WOT UNIMR BOV CONTROL. THIS
SHOULD BE POINTED OUT TO SUBJ AND IF A GUARANTEE 18 A CONDITION



FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF,

INFO CITE pen Vas PL

a. ms ssortven tm voummn £7 op sane‘omer vous wa
FRODOCTIVE TO KURARK. POSSIBLE AND LOGICAL SOY TaCrrTe
(RSPECIALLY IP TERY KNOT EE IS INFREBSTED IN GOVT OLOTEENT
WOULD BB TO ESYSLOP SLOWLY oR GPS USE AT LATER EATS, THIS
‘TYPE OP MAY DRAO ON FOR YRARS Wiru 40 Situkrry TO Evan.

3. XHPER Waou SEP THAT INITIAL GROTETERR isetigantr
SUI WOT EXTREMELY PAVGRAILE AXD MOB? COMSTUER LEONOY SEPERTERCED
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER WHO VOOLD MO DOUBT MAINTAIN UFFER RAND
3t RELATIONSSIP WITH 20 YEAR (LD STUDENT. ALSO EVEN IF SUBS
WOULD ACCEPT KUBARK ROLE KNOWING FUTURE RISKS HE MIGHT HAVE
RESERVATIONS LATER AND BECOME HANDLING PROBLEM.

4. LEOMOY APFRARS TO BE EGS SPECIALIOT POLITICAL ACTION
LATIN AMERICA. SENSITIVE (ASSTORAGR REPORT IDENTIFI HIN AB
KOB, FEEL IT WOULD EB ADVANTAGEOUS HAVE A SOURCE IN DIRECT
CONTACT WITH EIN SUT IN VIEW SUBJ'S SITUATION FEEL HE SHOULD



4
Pay,
sad

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

; : Co INDEX SECRET
eto ONO moex
DATE OLE ON CS FILE NO.
nic}
FROM: DIRECTOR k scarey
oe ee
oe cererretG CEN
ROUTINE
wNFO : eee
: PAGE THREE
to’ INFO VWasgE

SUGGEST TO LEONOV FOR LANGUAus EXCHANGE WITH APOLOGIES THAT
SUBJ SCHOOL COMMITMENTS DO NOT ALLOW SUCH EXTRA ACTIVITIES?
RECOGNIZE DIFFICULTIES THIS TYPE APPROACH AND WOULD REQUIRE
CARE, 1 BELIEVE SUBJ SHOULD BE ADVISED THAT FOR HIS OWN GOOD
HN DAEAK OFF CONTACT WITH LEOHOY BUT REPORT TO STATION ALL.
— ATTEMPTS AT CONTACT BY LEONOY, ‘QUEniGerxmosmmes. 27
7 iL’ No mpgs TRACKS SUBS, PARENTS, GRANDMOTHER. HMMA
AND HMM 6929 CONTAIN DEROG ON MANUEL GONZALEZ CASANOVA. ANY
SIGNIFICANT RESULTS RECEIVED KUSODA TRACES WILL BE POUCHED.
¥ THERE 18 CONTINUING LCIMPROVE INTEREST IN FRARER.
; END OF MESSAGE .
ee ee ergot

P. FRRRER. Sta see advantage poss develop wubj access:
agent against LEONOV.

cuiveriet Gin draft)

SR/CI/K/601d) }.Go aratt)

