# 104-10182-10133

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10182-10133

• .

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACTO FUCIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

AS SET.

DRAFT

8 cuzy 1959

MEVORHINIM OF CUNVEFSATION

-SIPJECTS

•03

PARTICIPANTS MItchell 1. HER BELL and 2. J. Mores

I. I phoned Subject at bis botel on 8 Jily at 1100 as ve had pre-

arranged to antage another meeting with his. I told him that it would

only take about an hour, or an hour and a half and then le would be free

to return to his hone.

2. When I arrized I told hin tha: after looking over the situation

and consulting vita do superior le 2A for oblous reasona

the United States would not support any revolutionary activities by Gen.

Pedraza. I also said that the United Staies will ooserve its International

obligatlorsconcerning Cuba and Pedraza, and that the United States would

not overinok any violations by Pedraza or his followers of the neutrality

laws.

3. I said that we had some interest in the possibility of his

working for us as an intelligence

gatherer under terms to be negotlated

after we obtained a current security clearance on him. I pointed out

that we were not atterpt.ing to linit his

action in connection with the

Fonshican Republe, nor vere we assuming any responsibility for those

matters he carries ost in his own behalf. I stressed the need for

security and discipline should he work for us, pointing out that he may

be asked to do things which we cannot fully explain to him because of

the need for security. He said hs understood this perfectly. I dictated

the attached Secrecy igreement to him and had him sign it.

SECRET

1.38

file nn1 911-83-9913

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Iso I had taken with me a PRA Part 1 for and obtained the

necessary data.

Do worka it a none one to rest es ones are estees.

for taking lif risks and switching

employment frequeatly, He appears to be basically a promoter in the

Piblic Relations and Adrertising 'Sleld. In 1957, the firm Mitchell

VER BELL, Inco, Atlanta, Georgla, ergajed in public relations and

advertisings went throush, umrupter, Me has since been selferposed

primarily as a consultant in the public relations and advertising field.

He 1s also connected with a firm called world ride Inforration Services,

660 Ist Ave., New Xork, didging tron the address, I questionil the

strengüh of this firmend Although Subject claims to be a Vico President

of it, he adaitted that he 19 employed on a comissiorel basis and has

had no rarinas since Janary 1959. He said the reason for his failure

to nake tilt money during this perlod 1s that he hes been involved in the

transactiong meatloned in my earler memorandur) the exchanie of Cuban

pesos, which were largely unruccessful.

6. I had asked Siibject to write out in detall as much as possible

• of the story he had given ne on 6 July, but he had falled to do so. He

wanted to knod whether the United States Covernment was going to do any-

thing about what he called the serlous Communist crisis in Cuba. I

told him that the United States would handle the matter in its own way

and ax orn time and that for obvious reasons of security i could not go

Into any detail on any of these matters with his unless he were specifically

to be charged with a giver aot10a.

1.28

---

## Page 3

14-00000

3.

?. Subject said that te had called the head of world hide Informazion

ferrises, Pichard ii. Hibell, since he was in lashington anyway and proposed

to go to New Tork to see him." He sald while the was in New York he would

attesat to contact Loos (See my memorandu of 7 july) and learn more of the

alle¿ed 1,00 availabie Gerzans.. I told hin that I neither approved or

disapproved his taking this action at this time but 1f be did; I would

appreciate hearing the results of 1t.

8. Subject said that he feels he should return to the Dominican

Republie as soon as possible and asked 11 we were willing to finance such

a trip. I toid him it would be recessary to get his clearance before

doing'so, and that he would tear fron us in a week to 10 dajs.

9. My second interview with Subject gave ne a nore unfavorable

opinion than before. While obviously, capable, I get the Impression that

Subject 1s such a big "wheeler and dealer that he has failed in business

despite considersue ability, initiative and energy. I recommend that

no use be nade of hin until such time that a very carenil covers. invaat.i-

gation of his background and actlvities have been made; that if security

approval 1s obtained, he Initially be hired under a short ter contract

for testing pursoses, ard only after careful testing and evaluation should

he be considered for long term contract employment.

1.28

---

