# 104-10248-10235

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10248-10235

PET BRENCE:

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

45%

SECURITY INFORMATION

Background Sea Outy.

A DO Not Flaproduce

Chief, Tecimical Servicas Staff/DD/F'

Attens

Security officer

3 Nerch 1952

Assistant Chief, Security Contral Starf

Attendanoo at Professional reeting

liemorandum dated 27 February 1952, to Assistant Deputy, Inspection and

security fros Acting Chief, TSS/DD/F

I. On 28 February 1952, Mr. Bernard Duras, Security Officer, ISS,

was informod that this office had no socurity objections to the

attandance of

(Parl Lae)

65-14

Chief, Appliod Physdes Branch

David Cardst of Cs-1?

Deputy Chief, Appliod Physica Branch

(dward lischier)

05-13

Ches, audio Support Division

Ired Libert 13

Deputy Chief, Audio Support Division

at the Instituto of ladio in lioers leeting to be held at New lork City

3 to 6 March 1952.

2. It vas unterstosà that these personnel vere to attend the

mooting as observars orli, ani not as participants.

In regard to paraprash 3 of the Reference, it vas ayroad

that these personal could reveal tiseir CIA employment, if necessaxy,

when contacting potential emloyoes sno may be of use as consultants

or staff Employees.

It was understood that no covert personnel

procurement vould be attempted.

FOR THE SECURITE OFFICEL, CIA:

SIGNED

N. EL. WON

I&SO

VJI :mlc

Distribution

cc: Security Officer/TSS/DD/P

03

03

Indit. Files ofLee, Christ, Mischler) and Gibert

File, SCS w/basic 03

Chrono., Ses

1/2 - 29 Fear er

Tr. Van Schrader, Personnel Procurement, advised that his office has

approved this procurement venture and arrangements have been made to follo

through in normal manner after these initial contacts have been made. Tbie

followup action would include Security Clearance requests where appropriate.

SECRET

SIGNES

V. J. THILl

---

