oo
Action Required:
wie Traces on AMFAUNAs 2 through 23, ident:

POAs qn AMFAUNAS 2 2 4, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19.

ee

. fifty inte:

—_
2. Ascertain ongene AMFAUNA-3 is of operational interest to
ODIBEX (see paragraph 15b).

Forward evaluations of documentary Antelligence provided by.
AMFAUNA-4 (see paragraph 56). aa

Summary : = &

4, AMPAUNA-1 is a Cuban national who was recruited and trained in
the United States and returned legally to Cuba(in March 1961 to serve as [74
resident shen in,Havana.) Since then he has built a net (Of over twenty zug

“.

sub-agents)and“has*sent back 140 S/W messages, from which upwards of
ligence disseminations have been made. He is highly

. motivated for his work and under effective control by JMWAVE. The

quality of his production is, forthe most part, very good and im roving
een CT h*he is at times distracted by an understandable interest
para-military operations. Operationally he is very skillful; however, .
he has been known to. take unnecessary risks. There is no reason to

think that he is under hostile control nor that the operation is likely™
in the future to be turned against us. There is,-however, the real

risk that he may one day fa]l into a G-2 trap baited with the Escambray
guerrillas. If so, this will be due to-the fact that contact with the
guerrillas was his first assignment and, although he has been re-
directed“to intelligence collection, he sometimes seems to feel that

evidenti believes that the end is now very close, is apt to make him.

” Faghne i fy in his primary mission. This, plus the fact that he a

-gvulner: fe’ to an appeal from the “heroes of the Esc.
ef, Present Status. of the Operation .- Modus Operandi: ‘5 an

5. There is considerable evidence that AMFAUNA-1 is extraordinaril

{ Attachments: A-D, Inc ehRe
‘Charts A,B,C,D b/w As “Eh, CS to?Y 11 guly —

.| Attch. E - Identities- 7SSE= (AMF AUNAS 22232 28

(a)

nop Leattch. F - Identities,a= ; ‘PATCH GYWBOL AND MOMGER .
PIAL La — Vea Get eee nets urGA-4703 ana
eee _ Fpsereonrens, “iP

4 ADistribution:

Beaeritetion: ad ra 9

{
i aoi-anized



UFGA=4703 *

skillful ‘in tha practice of security. He hae built a false identity
which he uses wherever possible in his operational contacts, he is
usually selective and cautious in his choice of collaborators, he

: takes pains to check on the security. of his sub-agents, and he uses

a system of cutouts for much of hig work.

6. Somerof AMFAUNA-1's older collabcrators know him by true name,
but wheraver j ble he introduces himself to new contacts by the *§
name of (Jul: ROJO"*\o/Evidently he is now living the part-of (Julio oF

- ROJO )to such an exten¢ that he has in effect a double identity. In
one of his S/W messages he asked that the widow of AMCUSP-] be warned
not to reveal that ("Ju on is in Cuba. Since AMFAUNAs] ia in Cuba .
legally, and all his faNity¥/and friends know it, this can only mean
‘that she should not reveal that AMFAUNA-1 and("Julio ROJO")areo

identical. 2ej- 241230 pseuddNymn used be, Lh £90)

+ Fe. Ins beth Pree sub-agents, AMFAUNA-1 relies primarily on his
own judgment and intuition. If he approves of a person, he will
veeruit him. “However, he has shown himself to be very cautious in
granting his approval. He has reported two persons whom he does not.
completely trust because, while otherwise well qualified, they drink.
too much and are indiscreet. For two other examples, AMBOA-1 and
LITAUs5 approached him separately and revealed their relationship with
KUBARK, hoping to collaborate.with him; AMFAUNA-1 treated them both ot
with reserve while he checked them out with JMWAVE. He has submitted,’ ‘|
the names of other contacts for checking. In the case of AMFAUNA-4, (Gov
whom he recruited without prior checking because time did not permit
it, he put his misgivings in writing: "Right away AMFAUNA-1 arranged
for a personal interview, taking utmost precautions » since we have
had sad previous experiences with members of CASTRO's armed forces."

8. Once he has recruited a sub-agent, AMFAUNA-1 manages to eee i
an independent eye on the former's security. On more than one occasion
“he has reported that one of his sub-agents is under G-2 surveillance,
and that for the time being he is staying away from him.

i "9. In general AMFAUNA-1 seems to trust in the efficiency of his
wg grurity precautions. On 25 February 1962 he reported that Identity
7 1 had been caught, but that he was in no danger because he had been

compartmented from her.°tThisyc ntmentati ig achieved by the use ~
of fixe cutoute: AMPRUNAS?, “APAUHA-3, ANFAGNACGY AMBOACL, and

JA=$, who maintain contact for AMFAUNA-1 with most if not all of
his sub-agents. Chart A, which shows AMFAUNA-1 in, direct contact with
AMFAUNAS 7: through 13, may be in error on this point. It would be
more in keeping with AMFAUNA-1's known modus operandi for him to have
cutouts between himself and these sub-agents, ‘If there is a cutout or
cutouts here, their identity is not yet known. There may also be ap
unreported cutout between AMFAUNA-1 and AMFAUNA-4, ©

10. Except for AMFAUNA;4, all the above-mentioned cutouts are
women. Two of his support agents, including his mail drop, are also
‘women. AMFAUNA-1 has’ not been explicit on this point, but it is ,..j)'.”
believed that he shares his favors between them. “Tf 60, he has the
best, of cover for his relations with them, It also clarifies the
otherwise puzzling picture of a legal resident of Cuba sleeping ina
different bed edch night. This practice must certainly reduce the ‘
possibility that the €-2 will pick him up for routine questioning.

vf

Communications: |

“11. The bulk 6f AMFAUNA-1's communications come via S/W. Hits
méssages ‘to JMWAVE are sent to accommodation addresses serviced by
, AMPAN-2 and AMCUTLER-1. JMWAVE's,mesaacean +n him are addressed to

AMFAUNA-14, AMFAUNA-1 can also use| for sending
documents and other material unsuitable for S/W. He has’ personal
contact with two of the officers pho either

r ‘carry it

BREAN Ta tue,


14-00000

CONTINUATION CF
OIPATEH

pate
«Second via AHPAUNAS24 »

22. The courier system can aleo work in the other direction. ..
AHFAUNAe: xbeen supplied with S/W materials for his own use by way
of ae # and for the us@ of AMRIPE-1 and AMRAVEL«1 by

fe of the( 24 6 :

13. A # ind Commund cation obnanna? exists in the weekly tolophene

* conversation: be tweon) ANCUTLER- (and hia wife \AMPAUNA}2)0/ It io useful’.
. for passing signals already prearranged by S/W, and for confirming that
AHFAUNA-1 fs still at liberty. If he is ever arrested, the news will
probably come firat by this means.

Finances: aie

1s, Expenses of the operation are $530 per month. The money is :
given monthly to Identity-3 or Identity-4 in the JMWAVE area. Identity]
3, upon receipt of the dollars, notifies identity-1 in Havana who in
turn pays Cuban pesos to AMFAUNA-1. Idontity-4 follows the same pro-
codure with Identity-2. AMFAUNA-1 confirms receipt of this money
by S/W. vue cena

Sub-agents:

15. Following is a description of the sub-agents in the AMFAUNA
net, ,iricluding AMCOG-2 and AMBOA-1 who, although they have their own
, independent connections to JMWAVE, have to some extent joined forces.
with AMFAUNA-1. For the identities of AMFAUNAs 2 through 23, see
| Eaeheniii E, forwarded under separate covers,

°

a. ANFAUNA-2} AMFAUNA-1's sister-in-law, she formerly |
eerved as his contact to members of his net(in asylum in theo6
various embassies) and now serves as his cutout to at least
the following: 7

(1) AMCOG-2: . She first appears in’ AMFAUNA-1's
correspondence in his S/W message No. 14 dated
19 May 1961, where he mentions that she was his.
link to a radio station operated by the(Rescate) 27
organization. Nothing ever came of this proposed
communications channel, but’ AMCOG-2 remained in

contact with AMFAUNA=1, helping him arrange asylum

for burned agents and passing some of his communica-

tion 4 AMPAUNAS1 reported

on 9 issage No, 21, that

AHCOG~2 knew him only by his alias Gulio ROJO)07In

his message No. 118, dated June 1962, he reporte

that AMFAUNA-15 had accidentally blown his true

name to AMC0G-2. For a further discussion of AMCOG-2,

and her relation to the security of AMFAUNA-1 see .
paragraph 56 below. .

col vanes of
(2) FAUNA-14 5 She is the secretary of @MCOG-2)
with whom she has dope clandestine work. She now
. serves AMFAUNA-1 as an accommodation address and as
a source of information. Message No. 112 dated 18
April.1962 included the name of a Communist nurse
who has allegedly come to the United States with
the mission of infiltrating a counter-revolutionary
group. AMPAUNA-14) Obtained. this information from a
my i i 0 is AMFAUNA-1's
\ zy ol. 7
(3) AMFAUNA-15: She is a relative of aMfauNa-14)
ang. a friend) oF AMCOG-2.~ She is-also the wife of
+ 1g BAEAUNA-17) thd a friend’ of AMFAUNA=16 who is now
O° Gmorisoned on the Isle of Pines) and sends her

lan



14-00000 _

| [creeaTon evessoL ano ryacoen

- -CONTINVATION 6F :
+ BISPATCH ' UFGA-4702 ~~

b. AMFAUNA-31 AMFAUNA-1's firet mention of her
is in his S7Wmesoage No, 127 dated 4 May 1962. She hae

provided information on @i1 and has a
trusted contact (Identity 7 9 also was
AMFAUNAS1's ci to =
of th 24In
vune 1967 she waa approached b: =8 who,
claimed to be the naw contact to the ganization.

(See also paragraph 58 below.) On 15%March. 1962 AMFAUNA-3
was traced by ODIBEX who proposed to use her in their
Operation CASINO. A negative trace reply was given at that
time. Headquarters is requested to ascertain whether ODIBEX
has a valid prior claim on this agent.

ol

Ce. AMPAUNA-4) He is a high-ranking Cuban Arny officer
who has provide "AUNA-1 with documintary informatior which
ought to be of some value, although JiMWAVE has not yet seen

it, it having gone to Headquarters via Madrid) through the “
channel described in paragraph 11 above‘ 2He “also claims to (
be receiving information from Identity-9 and Identity-10.
AMFAUNA-1 was introduced to FAUNA-4) by AMCOG-2 who in turn

was introduced to him by Identity-13,0l For a further
discussion of this matter, see paragraph $6 below.

dad. AMBOA-1: The origin of AMFAUNA-1's contact with
this agent, who hae also been recruited independently by

JMWAVE, is uncertain. He first mentioned her in October. g€
1961 as his cutout to Tdentity-10( ssp-1-and-uno-wuBeeq?
who had formerly been a contact of ‘AMCUSP-1 and who subsequent-

ly defected. AMFAUNA-1's last mention of her was on 15

November when he reported that she had given him a map show-

ing artillery installations on the south coast of Las Villas.

It is possible that AMFAUNA-1 has broken contact with her,

but since he has not reported having done so it is considered <~

more Likely that she remains his cutout to
jwho are known to be still reporting?

(1) AMF,

He was recruited in March 1962

‘AUNA-18: :
nov = 24

nown

A=. cn and it is
possible that AMFAUNA-1 meets directly with him.
It is only surmised that AMBOA-1, is his cutout to
him,

(2) AMFAUNA-19: He was recruited at the same
time as AMPAUNA-18. Althcugh AMFAUNA-1 did not
explicitly say so, it can be inferred that he and
AMFAUNA-18 are witting of each other's recruitment.

e. AMFAUNA-5: AMFAUNA-1 first reported her as an agent
in September I961.4 She is the sister-in-law of AM! UNAS 23 4
former (naval officer) who had been an agent of AMFAUNA-) as ©
early as July 1961 but had been caught and imprisoned for try-
ing to leave Cuba illegally.2Usne has been the source’of ~
information on Cubar and is the cutout to a. group
of people. employed at 24It is believed
that the identities of all these people have not yet been
reported, but they seem to be effective. On 29 May 1962:
AMFAUNA-1 reported the arrival of an undocumented Soviet plane

2! and forwarded the passenger list which he

nts had obtained clandestinely. Following
are the persons with whom AMFAUNA-S is known to be in contact.

° 7
(1) AM@AUNA-20) her husband. AMFAUNA~1 has written
that he has broken personal contact with this man,


DeeATOM OVRGEOL AMD USER -
UFGA=4703

CLARaInIGATIOn

SECRET

(2) AMPAN 221 former €niot engineer of the
Office OF Airports) he was recruited by Havana
Station in 1960, and has been corresponding with
JMWAVE by S/W.

(3) ampaunas2a: Alcniot inspector of nschanics®
foe Cubana Airlines. He hae stated hia willingnese
to @abotage air traf fiop, Desput his precise contribution
to AMFAUNA-1'9 operation’ is not known,

(4) AMPAUNAG221. A chief GF electr: cal inatrunente Of
: for Cubana AMriines’, Nothing more is known about thie
=) oman,

(5) AMFAUNA=23:  Srother-in-la: of (orauva- >)

f. AMFAUNA-6: A support agent. AMFAUNA-! has written
that she has no access to information of interest, but ia an
intelligent and brava female whom he uses for cover and to
secure overt information.

g. AMFAUNA-7: An ‘old friend of AMFAUNA-1 and his \
brother AMEUTTER- Ty Jol He works closely with AMFAUNA-8 and@ \
formerly was AMFAUNA~1‘'s cutout to (

h. . AMFAUNA-8:° An old friend of AMPAUNA-1 and nis 06
brother Al =Tjo| He has a contact in the (interior Ministry)
and works Closely with AMFAUNA-7. Ss

ol

i. AMFAUNA-3: A former} For_al|
he secures information of gene TTrom
travelling throughout Cuba, =

j. AMFAUNA-10:10 A widow of a bank, employee, she has 4
contacts inl and in the zu
She is also land has provided

information ~on jwhereabouta and indoct® ination.

. AMFAUNA-11: An employee of th
and the wife of a Communist member of th fa)
I) she has reported polit elligence.

In March 1962 AMFAUNA-1 reported that she was under surveillance
and that he was therefore avoiding her.
lL INA-12: sbtains inf Log from contacts

i

1

i

: |

within the oe

x

m. AMFAUNA-13: An fompany employee with
contacts in the Cuban Governmen @ has reported information
on G-2 activities in Cuba and the United States.

Back round and Motivation: &
T oO

i AMFAUNA-1 is aQ@o-year-oldJcuban male, born in Cuba of
arents. He has tried his hand at various kinds of work gs

-ingluding the Gmport business, journalism (he was once editor of

Diario de la Marina) and insurance} He has also ventured into politics,

‘Having Been a candidate (of the Autentico, uring the

Spanish Civil War he was a member of key d_during
War II, until the e Unite tates, he was af By
ml The JMWAVE case officer who
trained AMFAUNA-1 in tradecraft in“March 1961 (see UFGA-1247 of 10

i “April 1961) observed that he already had a grounding in clandestine
chniques. The case officer also characterized AMFAUNA-l as “a

pleasant, intelligent fellow" and "the most astute member of the team"
‘Somprising panselés ACU }) and AM@UTLER- Soi

Rae

SET oa

Qh 19S SRE ER NP RECESS EDN NEP LN RET 0 RAE IE

eS Aa RR EE EATON



14-00000

| CONTINUATION OF UFGK-6703
| BISPATCH i

04
ehiidren, all stili in Cuba(as of March 1961) However, it is noted
that the two children have different matronymics, that neither of them
is his wife's last name, and that all three dependents have different
addresses. It is assumed that this is his third wife. Since AMFAUNA-1
has never mentioned har in any of his S/W correspondence, it is also
assumed that she has gone the way of her two predecessors,

= °
18. ICUTLER-1 estioned on this point, said that his
other is living in with his present wife, that he has been
i ried only once betorejvanda has only one child from the first marriage
( is information is not considered definitive, because the last point
f
i

directly contradicted by AMFAUNA-1's PRQ Part I which he wrote him-

if, but it is included here for what it aay be worth. ANCUTLER-1) of

ided that his brother has no sexual relations with his sub-agents
except what ie considered nermal and acceptable by Cuban standards.

iif 19, The elements of AMFAUNA-1's motivation, then, include an
enturous spirit and a taste for clandestine work. Although "anti-
mmunism" may be an overworked expression, it ply in
- i is former membership and the
ban be taken as indicators. Asso included
“gpousa ve ung 105s or auresght forwarding business)which started out
omisingly in 1959 but folded up after a yeaMof CASTRO's revoluticn-

'y government. Finally, although these factors did not yet exist
“ih January 1961 when he was recruited, AMFAUNA-1 i i ected
iow by the death of aMCUSP-1>and the imprisonment)

(Gbntrel ba 4

20, It is evident from his S/W messages that AMFAUNA-1 derives
great personal satisfaction from his work against the CASTRO regime.
Hia connection with KUBARK provides him with the means to do this work.
This is believed to be a strong element of control. There have heen
many opportunities to test this control, by ordering AMFAUNA-1 tc do
something or to desist from doing something else, and the control is
believed to be effective.

Previous History of the Operation - January to May 1961:

21. AMFAUNA-1 was engaged in some form of clandestine work against
the CASTRO regime as early as(December 196004 As with so much else in
-—this operation, details are lacking, but it is known that he already
E | hed en understanding with Identity-29 whom he had known for twenty
ol pars 06 In December 1960, Identity-29 introduced AMFAUNA-1 to Identity-
$f a fon MAR coordinator from Matanzas.) who had been introduced to,.
ccIdentity-29 by one of the members of her group, Tdentity-28, ¢tdentity-
a 27.in turn brought in Identity-26,@ fellow MAR coordinator.
mars

22. In January1961, AMEAUNA-10lcame legally to the United States
‘ogether with USP-J) and AMCUTLER-1)and looked up their old friend
WAMJAG-4, who at that time was ‘heavily engaged in work with the
resistance groups. AMJAG-4 introduced them to a JMWAVE case officer
ho instructed them to return to Cuba, to form contacts with as many
“resistance groups as possible, and to report their progress through
CAMRUNG- who was JMWAVE's principal agent in the paramilitary field.
s1g0 imlthe JMWAVE area at this time were Identity-19 and Identity-23
hom they met and with whom they were later to work. . a

ol xe) 7 .
A373. AMPAUNA-1, ANGUTLER-2) and ANCUSE ‘una in

nuary 196i\( They dispatched Identite=1« Identity-
€ iP Identity-18 an entity=-37 to
0 An unidentified courier was
jut into touch with the guerrilla leader Identity-15, and aNcusP-1) |
nd Alf UTLER GD went to Cienfuegos with Identity-19 to make contacts
with insurgent groups there, ee



14-00000

4 CONTINUATION OF
CASPATCH

<time, as did AMRUNG-1) °] ;

, °
y7_25.9| To support the activities of AMFAUNA~1, ANCUTLER-1 and
(cUSP-1 it was agreed that OMWAVE would deposit 61,000 monthly into
né logal bank account of AMCUSP-) and the latter would provide the
juivalent in Cuban pesos from higown resources inside Cuba.

See “hae . f eo

TONSPATOM OYIEROL AMD MURESER

CLABOIFIGATION

SECRET

UFGA=4703

ol d :

26. avgusP-2 and anCuTLER-2) continued to busy themselves with
Bheparations for supporting the April invasion. They contacted ‘ &
fentity-21 who, at their request, provided cover_,ag (travelling drug

salesmen\for Identity-19 and also for Identity-20 who was intended to

bea a radio operator for Identity-23. -Although AMFAUNA-1 knew all

ieee people, he was compartmented from these) operations to some

tent, 9o that after the arrest of aMCusP-1) and the escape of

qeurut-) he had some difficulty in reestablishing contact with them.

o °

27, ancuree!) and AMFAUNA¥1, working together, h,

Ath Identity-33, a Cuban Army officer stacioned at the delO

se, and discussed ins for a orting the invasion. G

‘so contacted Identity-35, the
ed fon its surrender, using Identity-34,~

as a cutout. He had another agent

id alread reeruited AMFAUNA-11, an

o
28. Gn 18 Marchi 961) ancuse2)and AnGunc-1) were arrested by the
G-2 While Nolding a clandestine meeting. At first this was not

regarded as too serious a matter. The G-2 had broken into the meeting
only after having been alerted by the suspicious behavior of a woman af
lookout, and it was believed that they had no real evidence. (CUTLER-})
ame to the JMWAVE area on (3 April 196})and returnedlagain to Cuba on

0 April\still optimistic that AMCUSP-1)and RHRUNG- 2 would either be
released or could be helped to escape.°! However ,,one, the other cof
prisoners apparentlyfconfessed and implicated AMCUSP-1) and AMRUNG-1) who
were executed Gn 20 April ith the wave of arr ying the
April 17 invasion, AMCUTLI a took asylum in the mbassy and
AMFAUNA-1 went temporaérilylinto hiding.

we

29. On 27 April 1961 AMFAUNA-1 resumed operations by sending
entities 24, 25, 26° and 27° to collect order of battle information
n Matanzas. identities 26 and 27 returned tu Havana to report.
‘dentity-25 remained in Matanzas, and [dentity-24 was caught by the G-2.

30. In May 1961, Identity-30 informed AMFAUNA-1 that soe kind of
nspiratorial activity was going on the heme of AMCOG-2, He
—drranged to meet her through Identit.-30 whom ne thereafter used aaa
cutout to her.

PRODUCTIO

31.. This phase of the AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in Chart B.
the following people participating in this phase were separated from the

CAND REI

a. By arrest and execution:

qQ) o ol

(2) AMRUNG-}) of

wae

Aiey

b. By arrest and detention:

(1) Identity-24
(2) Identity-28

c. By asylum or escape to the U.S.:

(1) AMCUTLER-1) Ol
(2) Identity-23



iE

At some time prior to November 1961, Identity~%0 was fired from her job

. ws : a

TERT OT ER WO NT -
“ UFGA=4703

vious History of the Operation - June to November 1961:

32. In the period beginning June 1961, AMFAUNA-1 firet begun
king rogular use of AMPAUNA-250| He needed contact with his
laboratorsdwho were in asylum in various Western,, mbassies, and

‘AUN ~Alopeniy visiting her husband) AMCUTLER-1)@ho)gvas a
or the job.06With the departure of Identities 29
4 30, AMFAUNA-1 began using AMFAUNA- 2) as cutout t Was
Jeful to him for her ability to obtaimlthe hal» of 4
In August 1961 he used this channel +o aenc order
, battlé information obtainad by Iden:ity-Z1.

33. Iden ity-21 continued to help Identities 19 and 20.until they
Hi

k asylum in i je also served as AMFAUNA-1l‘e |
tout to Identity-50 Who was a close friend, of the 6,06
For cutouts to Identity-21, AMFAUNA-1 ret used

dentity- and-then AMFAUNA-8. AMFAUNA-8 slso served ag cutout to
entity-45 about whom nothing more is known than his names ¢ t

34. AMFAUNA-~1 developed another contact to Curing
this period ingthe person of Identity-52, a &
and a(former lieutenant \in the Rebel Army. Identity-57 met AMFAUNA=1
and Idéntity-21 on 27 OGtober 1961, and then remained in touch through
Identity-51. A few weeks later Identity-52 was arrested.

35. At some time during the period June to November 1961, AMFAUNA~
began collaborating with AMBOA-1. The origin of this collaboration is
not known, but it appears that the initiative was taken by AMBOA-1.
AMFAUNA-1 reported that she had revealed to him the fact that she has
a channel of S/W communication, to KUBARK, and that she had claimed to
be a friend of the widow of AMCUSP-1)?l AMFAUNA-1 asked JMWAVE to
confirm her bona fides, and this was done. AMBOA-lgthen began working
~GaqAMFAUNA~1's cutout to Identity-14, a(Cubana Airlines eee who in §
en was receiving information from Identity 40, an employee Of Cubana}

36. During the same period AMFAUNA-1 addea the following new

a. AMPAUNA-23 (for deseri;tion see paragraph 15e5 above).
b. AMPAUNA-5 (for description sey paragraph 1Se above).

c. Identity-41, a person who allegedly was collaborating
with se al other clandestine oups. He had two sub-agents
in th nistry of Public Works}gidentities 42 and 43, No
production has been attributable to these people. oS

d@. Identity-46, a
le to obtain etween, u
Nothing ever camé 1s contact.

Cc

y e. Identity-47,

~her, apparently on an unwitting basis. In
August 1961 he reported that he was dropping her because she
was a strong Communist and had given him information which he
considered of doubtful reliabili

ty.
f. Identity-48, a ferenan——— who provided

some order of battle information.

y g.  Identity-49,( }o8

,Although his recruitment was reported, AMFAUNA-1 never mentioned
him again.

SPAND -REPRODUATIOS

£3



14-00000

‘OROPATON OYMECL AID MURR

= SPATCH “| | _urea-4703

and AMFAUNA-1 hid him-in Havana until he was able to get asylum for
pile pia in(the Ecuadorian Embassy 6

ALOE 38. This phase of the AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in Chart C.
(¢5ine following people participating in this phese were separated from
cp tne operation by known causes:

a. By arrest and detention:
(1) Identity 28" (eubseg' ntly es aped ind took asylum
in the @rgentina Embassy)

(2) Identity 20 (subsequently escaped and took aaylum
in the @rgentine Embassy) 66

but fhe duration

(2) Identity ue Cinterrogateo

of her detention is not known).
(U) Identity 52.

b. By asylum:
(1) Identity 2U |
(2) Identity 37. |

Previous History of the Operation = December i961 to April 1362:

39, ‘During the perio off rom December 1961 to April 1962, ee

tr leontinued to use AMFAUNA-2)as a cutout to AMCOG-2. The
i [jgiven a lead in March 1962 from Identity-13, one of he con-
t—itacts, to a disaffected Cuban Army officer, AMEAUNA 4a She turne

>) this lead over to AMFAUNA-1, and the latter held his first meeting
<i with AM AUN) in AMFAUNA-2's automobile.
° °

=
i

40. AMFAUNA-3)was also used as alternate cutout to Identity-ll,
a woman with contacts(in the Cuban haedo ‘The,other alternate sut-
out was AMFAUNA-8, Identity-11 was arrested (in February 19629 Accord-
ing to AMFAUNA-1's account of the incident inhis message No. 99 of
6 Identity-1] had been meetin
AMFAUNA-1 had warned her not to trust tne mary, but
t the following day and was caught with him.
[<3 AMFAUNA-1 commented that some of his other agents were not compartmente
“4 from her, and he had ordered them to go into hiding. He ane net
z C identify these other agents. Presusably they included AMBAUNA~2)and
AMFAUNA~8. S ol

ss PUR ESOS SANDS YSERA NGEDUIAIRA NOE ATTRA eB TET ME

=
15) cutout to Identity-1296 the (Havana representativejof the insurgent

__, leader, Acvording to an officiah announcement by the
Cuban Kevernment yeep tation Bede Rpridy 1962. Other
sources have contradicted this reportvand the matter still remains in

some doubt. However, according to information obtained by AMFAUNA-1,

Identity-12 was arrested in his home in Havana in late April. Fora

further discussion of the possible security implications of this

connection, see paragraph $9 below.

41, AMFAUNA-3 was ne Glavana during’ this peysee and used as a

oer ag: 4
42. Identity-51, who during the period June” te November 1961, had

been serving as a link to iz |now established a
contact with Identity-S4, a reaident of ( who claimed to be a
disillusioned counter-revolutionary. -As a‘vcu ‘o Identity-54, she

used Identity-53. As far as the records, Snow, no results were ever
sobtained from this connection. 7 ‘

oI RRR YAH NN A BSTC

“| 2, @9643, Identity-14 defected during this period, as did Identity-57,
whom AMFAUNA-1 had recruited and was

; 2 a AREA ntnue



i : i
SOSGRET SO EATEN TRE OS
SECRET UFGA-4703

para: h 1Se above, FAUNA-1 seema to have an excellent network

within Cuban Gviationy but how it works remains a matter for
It ia supposet that AMBOA-1 is handling the two(new pilots) o

AMFAUNA-21 and AMFAUNA-22, both *mployees at

first made their appearance durin; this peri
‘wno-nas and continues to use his own S/W ucmmunications
found his way into the AMFAUNA operation. All three are
AMFAUNA-5, and it ie believed that sh. is srobebly the oc!

45. Identity-55 and Identity-56 were mentioned bri
during the period from December 1961 to Ap-i1 1962, The
been .a contact of AMRUNG- J)pl and seems to have gone into

to JMWAVE)
known to
utout to them.

efly as active
former had
hiding; in any

case, nothing m orted on him. The latter was an agent
of AMFAUNA-1 in in January 1962 he was in niding and
awaiting a chance to go into asyium.

46, AMFAUNA-11 remained active durin, this period,
10, and 12 were added to the operation. Eur description’
agents, see paragraph 15 above.

anc AMFAUNA-9,
ge of there

47, This phase of ‘the -AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in. Chart
D. The following people participating in this phase were separated

from the operation by known causes:

a. By arrest and de
(1) Identity-11

tention:

(2) Identity-12.

(1) Identity-14
(2) Tdentity-55
(2) Identity-56
(4) Identity-57.
Production:

48, JMWAVE records do not show the toral number of
veports disseminated since January 1961. The figure is
and is believed to be nearer one huntred, if the present
dissemination can be a criterion. I content they have
heavily toward the activities of insurgent groups, milit
location of artillery, and aviation matters. There has
recent tendency toward political and economic informatio:
being encouraged by JMWAVE, Evaluations of his producti

Security Analysis:

49, The possibility that AMFAUNA~l1 is a double age
ed remote. His successful LCFLUTTER, the fact (or what
be the fact) that his close friend and fellow agent AMCU
executed, and AMFAUNA-1's ow: character and background,
against the proposition that he was originally dispatche

that there is no proof, other than the fact that AMCUSP-

AMPAUNA
at least fifty,

frequency. of
leaned
ia movemants,
been a more
n, which is
on are lacking.

nt is censider-
is believed to
SP-1) was
allWfargue

d by the G-2.

1's) wife is

However, it must be admitted that the LCFLUTTER carflbe ae Also

in the JMWAVE area and behaving like a widow, that AMCUS
executed. There is documentary evidence plin the formolof
written by a fellow prisoner to AMCUSP-1's) widow, that h
in prison in March and April 1961. However, the person
and<buried the body was AMFAUNA-l's father, who was subs

P-l)was really
a letter
e was held
who identified

pouentiy Se a

cgoniecture.

|
(

; GARD <REPRODUS

api



ee esas Saree
,- Se resanet oo 7 7 “| UFGA=4703

50. Similarly, all that ia known about AMFAUNA-1's background
comes from AMFAUNA-1's own statements embodied in his PRQ Part I. No.
confirmation of this information has ever been obtained. From this
point of view there is no guarantee that AMFAUNA-1 io what he claims
to be. For all the proof to the contrary available to JMWAVE, he

could as easily haye been a Communist as a member of the
( 2 q

$1. These points are listed for the sake of ccmpleteneso, but ~'
littl@&limportance is attachsd to them. Tht known fact that (QUANTUM-52
and (QUANTUM-52 consider AMFAUNA-1 reliable suggests that he at least
was not 4 Communist. And an unusually extensive independent
view has''been obtained, of AMFAUNA-1's operations through the reports
and debriefings of eight of his egents who have either escaped to or
{ are in communication with the United States. The defection, of wt
» Identity-14, and the escape and debriefings of Identity-19, Identity-23,
Identity-26, and Identity-29, have all cor.cirmed parts of ANFAUNA-1's.
) Story. Finally, AMCOG-3 has reported by $/W that AMCOG-2 is in,contact
with AHFAUNA-1, and AMFAUNA-2's telephone conversations with CUTLER-)
provide a continuing check on the safety #ud whereabouts of AMFAUNA=2.0/

52. For the same reasons, the possibility is heavily discounted
that AMFAUNA-1 has been caught and doubled by the G-2 since his arrival
in Cuba. Additional indications that all is still well are the fact
that he never omits the safety signal that was given him for use in his
S/W, that his operational activities are consistent with his character
and background, and that the reporting of his agents is consistent with
thejr access to information.

$3. Whether AMFAUNA-1 is now in danger of being detected, and
whether the G-2 could double him if they do catch him, are two
questions remaining to be considered. Taking the second question first,
it is believed that the chances of the G-2 running a successful CI
operation against KUBARK through AMFAUNA-1 are extremely slim. To be
sure, the G-2 has certain weapons that¢they could use against AMfAUNA-1.
His father is already fin prison, serving a fifteen-year sentence, an
his mother and two children(are still in Cuba ac potential hostages.)
It is also conceivable that the G-2 could use AMFAUNA-1's own interest
in paramilitary operations as a lever by persuading him that KUBARK,
by neglecting to support the insurgent leader Oswaldo RAMIREZ, was
responsible for the latter's death and has demonstrated its indifference
to the fate of the Cuban people. This would all take time, however,
because AMFAUNA-1's reaction to arrest, at least initially, would ol,
probably be an attempt toygmulate his two huroes, AMCUSP-1) and aMfunc-.
In the time that it wouk@ take the G-2 to break dowmlthis resistance,
AMGUTLER-1 would almostféertainly have learned, either through his
phoneleonversations with AMFAUNA-2 0: ‘by the interruption of the same,
that something is wrong with AMFAUNA-1. ‘

$4, The risks that AMFAUNA-1 is now running are believed to be
considerable. for one thing, at least ten persons with varying degrees
of knowledge of his clandestine operations, have been held temporarily
or permanently by the S-2, which is believed to be increasing in
competence as a security force. For another, AMFAUNA-1 takes unnecessar:
chances, as by interrogating a new and untested agent (AMFAUNA-4) in
the personal automobile of his sister-in-law, or by personally trying
to penetrate a restricted area. And for a third, he has some contacts
which can be dangerous to him.

55. AMCOG-2 knows too much about AMFAUNA-1 for the latter's good.
It is believed that AMFAUNA-1 himself is aware that this is a potential-
ly serious security weakness, because he took the trouble to report it
(see paragraph 15al above). THe AMCOG operation is itself a fairly
complex one, and will be analyzed in a separate dispatch. The, aspects
of it which bear,cn the AMFAUNA operation are that AMCOG-2 and(her a i.
prother)aMcoc- 3) are \close relatives of a very prominent anti-Communist® |

Cuban politician) and that they are widely known, both in Cuba and in

-REPRODUSTIONS



14-00000

CLABEIMCATION

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH UFGA=4703

prosecution for actapagainst it, ie a matter for wonder. It has been
rumorad that (the old’politician)has a blackma{l hold over Fidel CASTRO
by virtue of ‘nis possession of Very damaging information about CASTRO.
There may ba some substance to this rumor. Aa a young student CASTER
is balieved to have committed criminal acts, and the (old politician
would have been in the best possible position at the time to obtain
proof of tham. This might well explain wry the family enjove immunity
today.

56. It would seem, thougr, that an aler* and competent security
service, which the G-2 shows eigns of becominy, if it is enjoined from
arresting and prosecuting an espionage sunpect, would at least try to
control and monitor his operations by penetrating them, It is there-
fore a cause for speculation that, in February 1962, an important
officer of the Cuban Army (Al AUNA- 4) allegedly desirous of defecting,
was introduced by Identity-13 to AMCOG-2, and a matter for deep concern
that AMCOG-2 passed the lead along to AMFAUNA~1 who accepted it with-
out any prior checking and actually held his first meeting with the
would-be defector in an automobile traceatle to AMFAUNA-2. Since
then, it has been observed that reports avd sub~sources offered by
AMFAUNA-8 are absorbing an increasing amount of AMFAUNA~l's time. The
military manuals endjcocuments turned over by AMFAUNA-4, and sent ‘to
Headquarters via the (QUANTUNe and the Giadrig Station} have not yet been
seen by JHWAVE, so it is not yet known whether AMFAUNA-"'s production
can be given a sufficiently high evaluation to allay the doubts raised
by the manner of his recruitment. Headquarters is asked to advise on
this as soon as possible, and to provide traces on AMFAUNA-4, =

$7, The other potentially dangerous contacts are, as might be
expected, in the field of para~military activities. In November 1961.6
AMFAUNA-1 was in touch with Identity-52. a
through Identity-51, a resident of to Identity-52 was
arrest i FAUNA=1 then developed another contact
to the through Identity-12, (caren
epresentative, whos to AMFAUNA-1 was AMFAUNA-3, a woman from
Inow resident in Havana, Identity-12 was arrested in

pri presuma as an aftermath of the 16 April battle in which
AMIREZ was reportedly killed.

58. In late May or early June 1962, identicy~8, a person f
Sancti, Spirit wn to AMPAUNA-3, called oi her in: the compa
a certain ho claimed tcofhave nad a meeting on 28

inidad with one | ayene gave
1 letter for delivery to Identity 2, Unable to Pind
lentity#i2 because of the latter's arre approached

Identity~8 who introduced him to AMFAUNA-3 t~ whom he handed over the
letter. The letter reads as follows;

"Dear Brother-in-Arms;

"YT greet you and officially report to you, as our
representative to the Military Junta of the FND, the sad
news of the death of our commander-~in-chief, Oswaldo
RAMIREZ, on 16 April last at 9 a.m. He fell in battle
together with other brothers. ‘The certificate to this
effect, containing the testimony of Captain BORGE, chief
of the personal guard, and of other members of his escort,
is in my possession, and {f will hand it over to you or to
anyone designated by the Military Junta of the FND.

"The disorganization caused by the above-mentioned
events prevented our reporting this news to you right away,
and only now have we been able to make contact with the

1 bearer, a man who has been working for some time as messenger
ee jand enjoying the complete confidenge of Oswaldo RAMIREZ and
1 of ourselves in particular.

PERRET OTTO EE STEER

a er ESSE RLB CRS 8 ESE TR LST TE EN EE

T1088)

DUSTIN

APERTURE SAND REPRO


we

SERCO SD
UFGA-4703

who will ocoupy the position of supreme commander of our’. i
liberation army. Whether it be one. supreme chief or a
joint command must be decided by you. ;

° "Although the National Liberation Army has continued
working and acting according to the jiorms laid down by
you and by our lata chief, you will underetand the urgency
of this interview which the bearer w111 tell you how to
arrange. In anticipation of your denisions I sign myself ‘
respectfully, ol.
7 |

59, As mentioned in paragraph 15b rhbove, ODIBEX has some kind of
interest in AMFAUNA=-3, and it may be that their files contain
6. gible anawers to some of the questions raised by this develop-
ment. For instance:

a. why did the RAMIREZ organization not know o: the “
arrest of Identity-12, one of ite own members, which nad
occurred at least a month previously?

b. If the RAMIREZ organization was so poorly informed
about Identity-12, how did they know about AMFAUNA=3, and a
why did they think she would be the appropriate person to
give the letter to?

ce. Given the disorganization complained of by the
writer of the letter, and the fact that all meetings must
have been arranged and held under clan stine conditions,
how to account for the fact that in the ~maximum of six
days between 28 May and 3 June when AMFAUNA-1 reported
the developments by S/W, something like the following
sequence of events must ,have taken place:

7 ol ~ pare
ay | |meets Inear Trinidad
in Las Villas Province, and receives the letter.
2) ( travels to Havana and tries
to locate IWentity-I2.
(3) his informed that Identity-12

has been arrested.

C4) returns tc Las Villas, reports
that the letter cannot be delivered to Identity-12,

and is told that AMFAUNA-3 should be given the letter.

af __.
7 (5) goes to Sancti Spiritus and
i locates Idevtity-8 who is a personal friend of
AMFAUNA-3 and can introduce him to her, and who
provi i is able to vouch for the authenticity
of klub on the letter. i

(at

fssaassaaetesiaaat?
(6)| and Identity-8 go to Havana and
give the letter to AMFAUNA-3.

Future Plans

60. It is difficult if not impossible to give an operation of
this complexity the support and direction it needs, when the only
communication with the@rincipal agent is by secret writing. There
is neve: nough room in an S/W message for both the positive intelligen
reporting and the supporting operational detaile, and it is the latter
that suffer. S/W communication algo inevitably involves a time lag
which, in the case of this operation, has sometimes run as high as
thann wake hananae of the freaient abaences from town of AMCUTLER-1



61. Ao a first step toward speading up communications, it ia
planned to find another accomodation address in the JMWAVE area for
AMFAUNA-1's use which can be expected to function without the delays
that have been experienced recently. Because of the importance and
urgency of some of AMFAUNA-1's intelligence veporte, consideration
is also being given to asaigning a radio oparator to him, probably
ANGLEN-9 who is awaiting only his signal plan to beceme active and

‘ ae will probably not be needed in the AMWPEN net as originally
planned.

62. AMFAUNA-1 will be instructed to break off contact with
ANCOG-2, and to cease interesting himself in the affairs of the
Escambray. As for AKFAUNA-4, it is feared that AMFAUNA~1 ie already
80 deeply involved with him that, if he war not a bona fide defector,
the damage has already been done. Neverth.less, AMFAUNA-1 will be
warnad of the potentialities of this situa.ton so that he cau be
pre to go into hiding if it should devslop badly. Specafic
military requirements will be sent to AMFA'A-1 for AMFAUNA-4 to
help in establishing his value as a source. Also for the improvement
of the security of the operation, AMFAUNA-1 will be told to stop taking
porsonal and unnecessary risks such as his penetration of a restricted
beach.

63. For the continued improvement of production, political and
economic requirements will be sent to him, AMFAUNA~1 is very
responsive to requirements, and has already developed sources and
informante in the political and economic areas in response to
instructions from JMWAVE, It is believed that an increased output
» of higher-priority intelligence can be expected from this operation.



aT Gave Sarre



14-00000



Séentaty 2

Identity

we

Identity

aie

Identity

Identity 6

—-——

Identity 7
Identity §
Identity 9

Identity iC

Identity 12

Identity 1?
Identity 13

Identity 14

OGG

Identity 15

Identity 1é

Identity 17
idantity LY
Identity 19
Identity 20

Identity 21

de tie
ddenti ey

identity

Fdeatity

Identity

identity 4

ute

&S copy

jn 6-SOLy


face SERED

Page : of Separate Cover
Attachment F to UFCA-8703
 eidaueey to Chief, TFW tt

Identity 36
Identity 33
Identity a?

Identiny 33
Identity 3%
Identity 3+
Identity 2:

Ideatity 3,

Identity

RS

Identity | if
Identity 4 ,
i '

kdentity

Identity #7
fdenviry |

identity

Ident

Identity

Identiry 34

