# 104-10188-10447

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10188-10447)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET/KAPOS

indos 0f station, lexico City

IM 1U1GION (CH101)

ReNLew Of LIFFAI and LIErVOY

iTOjectE by KUTiNE/O'1

Here is the KluBe draft puper preparod uy caul V. LEVISTFA

after uis recent viste to your

slation.

It has nad the beseild of

valuable subLestions fros the resis.

It has boen rond with intereat by

SOUdOr KIDANS OffICerE uno thine the paper Illustrates the essentials

Of SiOu laD OpErationa.

The stress ul the paper 1s on latelligouco

collection, but sose neution bac to be wasic of operatioual

leads and

cI/ci infornation, otheruise ne bould have hau only a partial ploturo

of the operations.

contents ur corractlong

wlan to nate.

you

no túnt la present the true facts aud convay the sight

1asing pald inis trlbute lo nowaty, se vill adale dar1ny

the facto la a len instances, du the

slapii-

ne was the lestion of rocdo und irmoiridic, dii rools

alone (pages 11, ja auù 12); ic dia not vlos

to confuse

Ine

reack dith

The other nos the collection and distribution os

roola and tranclutlong, waich is cunenhat sore couples toan the

eroipdure inscribei in the test; se proferted not lo clas lasins lie

reader pil ouiselves la thone double and triple singbach domationz

1n the mon aú smallues thing to day.

There are a

ies polues oa

sie simry ecculat of de statiode direngtù aiveu on pages 14-1l.

•• font thür such an acccunt vos mcesbdr; Cuëc the Freder der an deà

ni the size of the oberations eni due reune ut rotà iavolvoi ittout

such an account he sicht haye ausured dari

,ODe os ous tory largent.

Those la aloa the restion de lie esaii

16 unythlan

18 tuere

for not acclrately cercilber) that coule holy othe:

suis sey paine, so buula

(cont1:l00)

Clà,

HEN1CD 418Y

Muhn 14221)

1O.4c418 1303

: 5500-7.0/1

j0)-2-38/1

i:

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SECRST/RAPOS

10117 12820

1. Finally, thora vas tho quontion of the pollas 1120s, on valch

tho tiles are nyatliying.

THE 1D00 PrOJECT BENONAl TOUNESI EIATIONE

LITENSOR's destIO to cover thase as sell as the order tro, but subso

juent correspondence aults all suntiau of. Polish lines.

sentton the Hallah target? if oo, bor did no manage to get out of 18i

The touga problos, of course, vill ba to sanitize tho papes

altsoul drugradiag the operations.

The assonce of the 5088850 18

that so such can be done, and done sell, by relatively ser people.

provided those lew people have ibe sighs sallis and sufficient drive.

Bo aight onlt all references to Latia Ascrica, the spanish language.

and cuban caso digitera; to mishi evon datow in a lou alaleadlay phrases

liko "aho taraway Cuban

Barget."

te corsainly would not raut tho

location to be secogalzed escopi by persons already jazillar vita the

so will de guided by your wishes in this and other agnces

011U85 G. GALLOND

---

## Page 3

24S0L0 AND ZRJOIRE

14O TELEPIOS TAP OFZRATIUES

---

## Page 4

.. -

PILE OF COPINES

INTRODUCTION: TO CORPIISSIPILFY OPIRATIOUS

PART 1:

DEVELOPIEUT OF TEE TO CPSRATICAS

PART II:

TE CAFTO LUB INSTALLATIOIS

PARE TEZ: SLATIUR'S URB DE IA! INPORMARICN

CONCLINICAS

.".:

---

## Page 5

Tos araciOs sons DOl sharO lDa vIdasprasa baliel that toL02b0n0

Capo arO DocSOdaTIly joDr producara of positivo into lligonce, Modovis

o atatian affICar DArS DI a LAD OperAtIOn Cal prOduçãO IstElO diesend-

BAbLO 10101A1100, blA LATICADIe COnsent 19: "Pou bad thay'ta lottiag

800d laSeratlos 8119 EbroUgh ChAlI Elagers," Fto atalion's expartonca

vita tro tas operatians azplaras ito atuitudo. Pos 1] geara 11 nas bad

•Ao Lodependent tas aparazioa that bacana a food producar as postelvo

1oto1218800a de Moll ds oparatsoal leado dod CI/LE LAPOrEStICO. DurIng

1to pa-1ad os saxista developassi enla cporatica bad 23 lln00 and

produced suno 140 dissentraticao por soar. Tive Jaars 380 tDo atadlen

sat up s nor tap operation joladio dis tha local goverruent. %10

DUrInA Cha Pat tUO yoar 1t bus EnLacaloS 30 setiva l1r0s ani

producad son 255 d190031ast1008 sar shari 1t reparalag has Desn ovalu-

3tad as "data1lod, ans of bish gualley and substanilai quaatity."

soreral lindo cappod by do joini sparseloa lsd boas tba soat produrtivo

enas ol via todopandens capp fusa susopendant operation bas toon sa1a-

1a10çi, 'o1thout the mordidge of la iocal gorrasni, but 1t lao boccos

orlesion prisarlly torando curgai os CI/C3 luteroat; de Eba eses eles,

180 o'rall corarage los doon radures, dal 10 racert yegro de cas sala-

carned barsen li a2d 18 111a8, Vedor thase circunstances, ta intall1-

sanos produosina of una indepindent oferation ião tourd to decrease;

Davertholode, It bão ramaloed a reajactabla producar, vità en areraço sucedipa i

+3n1a9t108 pat year. tns story of thase to couplementary

---

## Page 6

the acquiritice ca 91/03

In'erosio dil cretatiana loacs: 1: 0:10

opera: 1ãa de bacol. io produçe til jositire an Cl:'I 1910220:100, 10

15o

la'lilane produce lo there. Du: 1i ia8 i de recarised nod excrectod

Pron 10e era.

workisis ot tie abilor's tri las ciergildid vili briag chit dia Priset-

---

## Page 7

14-00000

753 DE CEERATICRS

IRSOLO, Mao Laid in las fall al 1955 uses tno emplayano of cia calo-

prode cicinari sare racrilisa; una vas a dusaintoor tor rapairo aoo.

d1d regalr and sartadaco vore. In !9i: idio vera piaced on curaldo

11G00 Cl :D0 Sorier esteasy dal the 22000 do: Pollod lega:1006. By

eno mistie di 19si isa speratior à coierag? bal been aulendad to

leadora si ina ixa: incuciar inrty dad insolal front ergentiationo.

Moso Early youre sai boos a dillicull ieria mp eparati sániä, dus

sho station do mii an tor Kulira do a tiria, in eraricellig che

care, Bu: progrgas tal inea alasdy, ai io protuchlus years sa:a

se? aioal, la igio disono picuced 19 positie add 6 rai diasesisa-

into eno sporette. io tá in vedi de sad anszare, Io 195ó li producod

incinio iconi Beveroe=: 1001911A110n9 a0l 1508 Grecuniat exja: 1a200,

1 acinG 1ndu091199 Pristittat lo tit Engacisation. Ioo 9i9810n

una ais; pralios ij resiquarara lor lia lair lolion-o ol epona::outi

---

## Page 8

4-000000

1081 :parater

and as assletane lo sair 279 to do lie benltorino. tue jorio: dod

Salalileo rato ts9 Cracaigiad by Caa:ra:s sosto. Tus 0:00:00 nas

ii.

---

## Page 9

14-00000

an erity

ittale do ta cind

10.01"5et:

Tinatis 3

thr. thin:

inl0nnne-19÷ Ej91A':12

Meet we Colded Gordie, Find tessip"

Tires

el C991 G0e1111

tition to taran

---

## Page 10

14-00000

i..

iron asi

CODE LiT DEM "!

109119208"

io".

CRaGE C.. 83776 687 T7160659

he slit do street

Afrain

- 7 111 d

aege Bad 1a090tefild d010

,éleis..

Hottend d.

Mate: di

r.i

lo. 15.10

kF."

#17:6;8

estig.

Methin on da pod a:

1251094

at 101 Gd 91

-11.0 he 01! lie Well 111l9 00 1ell 19101!

•attenden don Hennd Mende ded tentia daäl the stir

.:?"

---

## Page 11

ridotto eletta do 010d: do Pick1!

•1 sottile u, 27ü

uha na-rlie And a ies ulinoui die kanulaioe, and da face, eã0 de dia

a:¿re Ilses trio tie veri bestradas tno seen diat or the cuter or

serrico, fare sao al sppureity, net orly li papara tra ciarlon'o

talephono cove: ga t!'l 100A: Help. lut Mido lu corglos rial: 003hapo

Milli 1579959

-aiutise.

cap: conter creatalel 06 tre

A Datica

recentative.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

M:8 207.1.8

et a.ntoet Sost" ind

''ata. ?.1

Moid ite inde mribilid üe iehl bishd dgemgtttaaü dogenteice

aid

. 50r)

leceuienà Dacidtdánde tne yenr Midte li Poltet

tircet!

ZajUlTT -girzil: Ad beg lell tiee d ue d"di Ptij.o 1e

d.i "eisciaseie wi 1".

Ho ado iopielel if duil trll.1i2e Nlih 129 3011ve

a :a! I

Btüe !rlw üealet;de Mie Wüh iü Bldllili s asihitaltine

iidaaidi ao:, Mosiito99retisciti ter t99 satenesssrnilsr..

siostt 05- 0210adis-matden2ttyoarnperoud.ooyfrtf-959.9z572945475447s0z0.ds

at tiri 19575-159.

MEetGO EeHE de DenHDE bGaplet dE lli

cercan dripecdipidgl iidi do ido na di e pnge gsnier dinies=a

iloe 11918900-3779.ll.erodsezdgmes

h" tG te: tr irslieh

Dari ciaon 1a :

uaê dd 1ea Deitedi'1 Alel Meito Eiit deit is tai

Lit saticdta!

te pycittod Girhrert

aiiienie

AriniGiEa1iR

#,ds40: 2001.16. Git luit 1s

lB: "ath po9ae H Predk:91

g; ait t? tierralistiis

;..':

---

## Page 13

мідіі селі "йлись ний нал119""

unon jit pagelle tre insed

do a gerulee cocunáry of intereds,

all girl;

in progetti

-colo tint lemicido di detenti di a

tront thie, aust di antih lad iner Lided il ütediene di duere

la prete do Midi".

??!.

,dei mainne tol de leone lerai us.

ridi.

iti

:=e:

9: 1:

sard Baruid in inel cathe!

3 ":

---

## Page 14

Trin.

Incal 80026215

---

## Page 15

"***,

ment 10 1614 150:99:00 That 15 9 60: 27 19 1 10 5190599.

Gun in ty

tie sevni securley soirlie, dod liay scor cha: Leia vas

sul to produri tisi aguiod. Lorraina: 10sa veie so: recordoi, dea

tharo coulù to do chasò as tha lila accliortes; da tna hardo of an

10B881C1059 ARl COrTIDE DETVICO, CNIO VAS BiGMy ChaNce Wit 219

substrice nt contarostiçno vas calcied as 119%0505, untato tirally

un ty dediao, Tas: is miy noão ioca" articinis datos due muri ot

kopo cho ludi gaitice out dl in ta titt illar apoiarice de da 201

doal vich a ioca aeritca--visi servica objectina, vitie persiasi axt1-

ElonA, Mith a situa operadi and a sidea ina 295331b, that ran coutor

acaotinea scours iten die 19p triminisco 19 13 gai sortite 05a05

Beal Virt i saa: loi denis: all dirtin a service, the kirl er vote

na deal vith a trug agonizi indi: do is: da do sace, lin ario iocal

---

## Page 16

14-09000

vitie séo dis misse

raun iodiel l0 cuss 12s: ire0 a.: 118 Tiyai trlis 1= 59-5009115

чо!r rs serrira:

"ios BaBie Di Cioiailos ino: 81:98 1599, 110t10

Uy ¡llico Miù id$ SY ÉAY, Sù 109.2E 10'0 hO 1U'43110U9 SEA DiADS OI

jersong ans

EFILDO RODEILE 1O LINS 2I1 LO OUTCKE. ENETY DOFTINE EAO

Prod:$40t 02 40e

couctry dod tio d0'al of Stallca rave o5. 230:r Jeado

a tuo to four-pag9 copy se csa cighiígite có uue prericua day'o cato.

OccadIoDAlLy te PrpDidon" ADia Sur 9 docò of the lApar tO D0O 18-

toaro aro olhor dacalio to ta tsù Irca s convereatica ol spoctal

Intoreot lu ula. Do has ausiad on one oicaoiaa, vian a coesrualat

Insjlres congreos tos loid in hlo coutry, ins: no tad serer teas so

WALL LU'OTIRÚ DO dEy DIS1LA, CiRNl. Du 0i01 El 5201101 daliy zario

alo ova copy có the prersosa daje tighilghed vita triel Inatructiono

*tigánto dná con: sr0lt9re rn colu's de arisai lnporiaice di co

Viich ise tiai B,0:1AÀ RACUiAdEE.

Toid intoino: al tis 10p, su dela.

oijea, eivoa aádod aparà lù iãe 1taraãi dé all cho etatra

W90 219

engaget 1I d0n operaLos.

wna -.

---

## Page 17

Ia fo!i!

OÇOTAI10I0 MN PIRANINALIÕO DÉ AURiNE dULe:eRro 10 100

aillY s Es:LOT

c=ie:2ai Agieeceã: Dui diGO, 0a1 PUBOtIDOs DOrO DO.

.one al dally iparora la lio aituai ruablag il ensoo upo oelocs.

10 ZFúNiN" taio pega sall procectas all aloce.

+70 -1-.

Our caso of!:=ªs 120:10 the lrosallaliro, lho alalí agent vio soopa

Rbs agUIJE0D! l0 gOnd MirHlDi confitlo0, sAd0O aurA ChaE the opara-

Elão açaya ou iourao. Apparozely tba lucal ciriilan 1a chargo of

uho 20n19051ia 99791 1aled i0 tind out at oua tloa vtiothar our saa

could to aibcrei

ouc; lo loid ain thist de vao balis eurvellled aial

asoal atay auy froa tba jecerieji jeuiar lor a lou 090ba, bui 1,09

caos orficno copilos tha: ho cinla do: so tuor odve,l in múó-à ?ros

una Chlel of sration, aul inai ma lise ond ot tino mitar. Tis o:1:100

pertoral ene mna luat di cuZLiDn uha raiITo Iai Mt Of do pparaiion;

a Burralliance and Inrasuigatire un1s tas boeu created, raa tio tiras

capa ve

inotelled, lu failor uy iasio peueraçed by lua uparasion,

Dão lue arher Diallar urlla sncr.99 by caritgs ss arbeidiied sy

XUVARI 15 UIA DOE FUCOZIOn, DNS i: NSo toisICEtAù al:er Uio ysar, to-.

giation pres auccagled le satring up s aptelai i5000-o al 160 itri

vithtr eoo judal cperotoa, donn eo cend periniada asded dia sorora

OO O C STlE! AM COOCE ¡eAGLidiloDa, Cha Chiel dl ditlCE aipreadEd

las0raa: dis poteres dui taai ho hat so idaguiddo capabia ol trandiailas

Rusaiai ail i1ta: 1l mi agion1 110t in Fiscia: aud Claid eçga ooseld

de seit ln Rosdijuartars tor 1900:9110à 271 ibal diù Ilose Si 1115193°

VO1L! DO SADaMI

bacb io tir Biellin, utlib vorala insoaaii thas lo cur

---

## Page 18

4-00000

Ekittai .

215160r 1 1111 601 ÷ delle Garld Cito 14 105

1: tra de

99:4T96.A/DO 112614:1

Certo ie biondo tri t friends detiene bill ""

---

## Page 19

14-00000

Isto: 0070t8tis1. 1:1102144:0191650

to dente dei Dore tr

me t-da50.400: operatlos 193

us: ;::

dengo do didata denids.i.

wins amo aspara me deitei di tendo dis ii"

'cadete torring sete fiar.

1100039494

e lote Mata ME !

me tentate" te lute; vestara.

Hae161.1"

---

## Page 20

14-00000

st sainn

.. .

diui dee artoi,

1:.e

loteyaleil. il: di'e

•ti:are

fessien:*

d tos talis

ieipurt shr

Ai to.a diaide QuGiiee

et d aad Giee Gidid el dee wepfiid

•aij taia of

1e Mtle Maetl lall d Me MhRobd9dl G0l19:

inta volà wiil

le dasttet li l9e deg ne dl tle faideoiné deuthlili Sit lie iiiles-

lin"aiiania':8

OP 2001A7 Ec1 155014.

---

## Page 21

14-00000

172

"You can't aspoc: such fron la people of this comitry; thay' no

caroloso, 10d02058, .

• " aud do on, Such gaporalizatione para

DOOS RAJO DY XUBARY OffICITS COSCATALIE IDO SOOpIO Of BaLy coustrioa,

LAGLEdLAS UTO OCO VESTO LIWOLNS 10 LOcaTod. To atatios rouLa

InstabLy sol agapo vita tha gedorallzallon, dod cartalaly it rould

noR appiy lt lo lCo astivO BORItOrIng starl. All aration officors

connestad vith da aparation pay tributa to uba rozarkablo a81ll

datalopãd by the a01:0ra and to tha algi qualley of their voris.

mole soot micruin salll 19 choir abllizy to raouve aost of tiso

mIleout 1os1sg mich 15 maytilag of the valuabie subarance, For sa.jor

higailento ul 1he sake, To averago lougtà of tita repare 1o ebout

Ebres pagas of alcale-apaced syring. A1 gailseant scavarearlore

appear la corcholodical erdar, viza tha ilse 1a61cated la tie sargin.

They are coldenddi, dui the day parades are stran 11rarally, tetsesa

postlue paris. Ma most productiia 1laca for Use roper are dosto

On Span19E-ofeaklia Cergara, DuE tase BiT ACEolOCal 1loTA STos

05biE LInes ubes conversatione are liaid 1a aparlo.

spanial-oratins 11509 excapt the cuido are kope at the intercept

CTOT Я КЗОЛ ОГ

1so, for posaldio coccalue ot

29r:910

irriversatiane,

she algrilguis

repart, tiereídie, la the daly priast

raceivei

2.:: 1h9 0101166

tion some timed.

"Ax+

---

## Page 22

adaier. Pie Spalidò juilins dio trsiocrival din calitiaros lo 1ia

in puoosas (da Mido), Crecs, es Sartias; ans tha rodo

and transriplo ano trancaltesd ovory suraing lo lio stativa caso .

OSSICAS TADPOROLDLO POI IRJOINT. PIeR la CASA PrOROGrIDEA tEO

moultore onli erirlal convereations mes they are la Spanisa, tuioly

DORSEA "91a LEportancia". To precesco do haring la anulloro remore-

all cho triisa tay con socugalea do dura le essantial ti natlia tre

mat di tho tale nasagnable and choreturo unesio, Na zay 1c9o se

o10a010na1 1109 0r deiall of vallo de trio bay, bul vo borid loco

nel para de pho pina ne Ininimatia gre ge ne control, le barilas

'''k in

of marsad cosas accumulatod and tha prenot san dora to tot avay.

---

## Page 23

14-0000

De 100:16 14 111011: Gibilited " 1 ile Dilatin in 60501C$

ba the dei vi the loirono strinas

raneisacce silli, con laria1137

111040:

:111009 1 19 1i"190

li charse.

ne sentirs ese

renderire donesi

"-.-

---

## Page 24

14-09p00

indie.

¿rret:.d.

.":i.

iiailtse

rbonios tire;

d:. ave:

i-iei sián."!iar?

raid.2a. a0d.!.

00116 159t 1a0ei tdiif foing ii iiid

acentlan et

•t dare e?l:t0? s:

tie cesie.. dé .e' tu "er

ssti?

Pi.a

*iat!r.,

"'s.i

---

## Page 25

14-00000

lo lin cradle did "100 ine mentions hare digitred toe agains

@k11o 18201409910091 EAGE:8. Mey kind the releno of lie

cargo: persons god di their fraguent eCrre70ad9228.

In chels reports 919 mricular ial1a-100rl130 sisents of wakoo:

cailore. Tey ginep she distares: sora1z03 of incorallace ard cro

Vlaini'se a1ru9?1003 at the iter aid of the Iice. They recon.

apecia: node of speakora, duct as ascor or sarsaly, lopparestletical

sotea. Tury nure a almpio systaa di Initiain to prasant disari tho

fled porscre 1n laiFo 1rs:311991000: Mi juno taoide inrailacion),

maluain = cupie but attestiva gypter dr cicss-?tilne excerpis or

tho care ay lanes of targes persons, by cases cá weir principal

contacte, nod ty telephone murdere calles to taigui paracao, la scar-

t100

to "ie inole ironoiogica, llie do io tair for such larger line.

of cetition lin lion el goes soaveredions letters tries.

flii:!

te maghagbie rogonta and the treasonable are exilerie.

carlan lo calerty and tintors a cerison ionsal, maid tidea tie caporea

?:

---

## Page 26

14-00000

de?lose Gali 104: 4110994 19199 27 1o

anatile me prescure do is i conclines, hial tee More Any deta.

cera! Saci detach drools to lie visi darna 10a girl scullers:

but 11 10 0 ayepin or the sedand Care die Much Choy Clocharge

the is ensential functiona, Is ious terregi nee aid too jours to

bring the monitoriag stall lù 1ia present level of cracienco, ass

continuity on the de las toon so aspertail tactor da tre rosir.

In fire janis only ina no the orletral schizona has jett; to das

miso good acachlid tica lie starra, for coch of liose tro ip°rilia

Too L2121

of ise operstion the deed in bai giro soulleid did to neap iliar call

the jot, we accentire das doiet i9 ino for df pay; ine guirg

attttero rosive liest coralar Arto sai and in addition 1i50R6 aus-

sideran for daci do a appieseniary saiary pruparticiaia li tro

salun do 11s sock at la centor. Sui sother Jacentire shas 11055

sparently dame the 101r die, Dor 10st lord bare Doids Arperio

w= 17.

statico abor to the palaci to me: dora, baitine et 100 botanitos

•?.?

---

## Page 27

14-00000

a indiagonie Eide to dearest center, al tri an here?.

10tane0t6

18

a jub sai requires loc: as veli do firmean. Dur mai

charge of

is chios Doubtor, In order t avoid lie lapica:: a to:

¿it nAtive arall la auljoce so his orders. Ula voriday pogluo a:

1:30 1e de sornino, ruea to picdo up tre prorlone daj' tierl 20ea

report, reeja 2nd liaisoripto, and inada sea der le rio scariou

cutell line for she sonisoring of use libes, dien die inse ileas for

Une day are cutered in the hisaahis rapid and lia tribals traibdis:4s.

confeciala s: to 49.10n Offliera 005129

Xey that the subtleride

rating rare of tre ecautoria, egolani me local doonadre it the

pration could-coralala find a enchaeo: do field or to coeld

pige0% dressere.

it 800 cange: laws

Bar:

---

## Page 28

4-00000

will le itserene.

¡no sales 2120 ty 8110, on. lo

racio su

theres the doe"

Fin san taido to do tne

2u0 unlis ul one rack pach day

inst the cursioad deans lo portle,

crackleg all the saris, rapinclus neui cures; and sieaiing both

units sios 0p to botros, a jot that laxes siou: inroe naura: la

genaraily annages to do cha 16 racis nacà santa, la adisties, bo

dures and va'unea lio expuded parta do the did:a once a ves%. Tha

agulpacoal line bego used saven dajo a book far isra yours and alternaga

se lu voon and will de replaind clerin doe deal joss, 1t etall gives

good recepilto, test nas cares ice: Bydier el dent renditini 1a

-+--

---

## Page 29

= mili carta asia ds israel.

catercoi"

A1naree: esca-ano, 86 a reclador of PUlSi e interea: and aguily ia

L09 020r7:15N.

In suppere un an sperallon di arrat urboncy. Except 1n linge leu

cassa si operationi sasabbil, dacedo to tre prenione bas tue:: dented,

salves

Tie lAci iNi ira:ciatore vera mit Diacod alorarlle 1io 200!.

tore; due mie nere il conventanoo, ray Miti "dit helpati liti Verei059

la piano di corenga-ichilna perche sonid Bitont lü tare antisei

*

910: w 1160715 19e2 Cosa Lata dichrer To dcc6301 iddidr

apranere et ine diernito".

Piani nere con idaniche düt daidei die, dal di tri

"'''s, a".

---

## Page 30

A tar AR.

are belag ciarhoeri, on destrai arliigine, bui labir eusgiticaa ama

probaity d'inied al da luis: seriica, 401cà tos deca ruanlio a far

ar sdorare tap ajaraiint-and is silide, lisecure oce di lo..dor

Bazo jaRis. la case cI eram esergeacy, the chier si tie calire

sualiona could vard ofl crpodure by the pollce or security servico:

Pred:0908.

.%:

---

## Page 31

14-00000

¿s, invincia lisero attira

1 paresti di se

garina sonseguacros

209 5:

Fintato; inati

il ci3 8il il Pretrii

"ne lav;'

"to serailsy protien

iB quI discran, m1ui incepenáinl operatione lule doca, in vaich

va are on mut iva, sed urcue capo ca cutaile lines are caireas

lie tapo dud tu colorali ili noche is sandid asiet ora: 1° 0730859

Marlos 902099i, 190 coupano digertiane cordel di te guare of

vock to le pur prai tie iniariobe polrea di doo linee. in addielia,

vialia 6,à

-'rittai e dedici?

il trarr'

e dentiei di LA da 58

il 3509i in

---

## Page 32

14-00000

hagien.

lecitt et tiair j tde ereir.

ecculad, Eiute ih.i9.B0

7Md !.. ..dn'd.br:

dorcaat canedo maalay cay=

aal' onisel i do j oiei le iaunnie tail diigedy Mo,dial lai a

i=e.. o0 deiint diti:ae

and c.raao.

"'e ihjo verg iet: on for fyar

.it! !6" !1li 1e9 6eeG E0 eleied !Ÿ Plie

tetriilarg, bie

altertittrt doil ioú cluneiei taut dl lüe dllg's teadihore

0.!., ....6:.1.90e1, 10. ö9 D01 E1, W99lu Hiilf Dil Sepetiüt9

el lecemtiläne in lattanio d'e tiedoud iädidild lpi dii #gaid

/: /10. 016. C liGG Öild A toltüned Élüensha

Mlecdegea te d dee den tted na t"i

rein ingshion. dil axas tuid

al trclo oo Gaold' ed 1hac111101!, Aller Do actioc' e 100:12

Bata?.

oeeeoeel Ce Gaiddt C Mled Cedltül Mhe Ce Co dtez

AiRGE MlOREGR1EÁ WA0 11RT4

adi : je ti crurtii iereüirga-

te tt woeeee tlueethe ee l da GoeD dled Mirl tl digt

wcc?l 1od0 ow "EeeGdê me ele de d Cll 1De dè 9= *Efã

,!e 3.....900ü.

ee wäl Tha Mitle1 Ai981

wioeGeeGüGed äe e? Hel CeElitldele Hlnd robgithicl

.:!. !!..

.ccedee"d de ded Gerelt, Mil ihul dln o ttin9.0i1

eeeeüwWee w eeeede deeeld dt"itdt

AAR IinALa

---

## Page 33

14-00000

tale lade luigahy 18 giglio!

arerhead iciapráe iios vien noo sndargrubra criies;

che Sestaiaria: di incundiattoce did Putili dores la trisce to eina

varo el providing seionione se-riie lo ser custouera, 4:1 1o 2918

ead 18 10

lucklag sato che ques1i0s di recoreriag dead paírs al viros

laft 10 ziasa

cior sho geare uhat sha i1coa of feraer usera vero

deactirata?.

In cha, last Pey jeare a 18u Z5SCi: 4058 19-7 pIA-ci 15

s0l0prat0 :001.s:;

319 totial vill ba ina anto ibelio da parte ae

best 100!'e 6h3re

L'ilitud int.

внух: -

Ruas chos, ita

A.. trese.

storicad, cart add

tra:

tor benjing tria spara-

i:

i0."

---

## Page 34

14-00000

ue che 119?eattg frate deio bona traliad lo 5s08.

vAilOUa dIluatios CA: CoUl LaBui: lu diçodure, Hot jaug ago teo

capany papie iano iù a listanlid i19l tra: tai usa tan russiag

Lato 16; thay vacred to check the caioftino llues an the 500l. Tha

operaçor o? the pias, à dignifios lady vili as Air ol sultarity, cola

cae ano to caso bare the sale soruindi bor nuotasó vo avay and eba

coulo DO: 1a1 saD lato trA douBo 10 hia sbasado, Toa ciainay nos

cess back the nert scriss. la bisband usa Airepi, lall cree toss

Lato tho alzat setera--la lady vos dot parria!. Incidentail --uas"

tasy could ecas 1a.. "" and don't sato any 00:99. . . ripo

una a bard 11ea tiroughout, ley dui li ino eret, sau pidios il

erca the poises, del thay quichio tele lat novas, probabiy eibé

inat il tea s'i quer. Tha ini sso yus su agata, bui lio ilo sicog

a1 Li bela ll tno ispionine poo: iciás ouagaci la the furar pince.

Tue lady quas sostianes lirea des bor aldier. to vito of a presiceat

tIcal tiguro. Tua 11stanina poato are la the sonno ot vali-to-

•lanal paolie, viù Guall childre. Artici ino 30270; tha

1110:195 Aui iN ChA Ca9r GIUndIN Acte de dile Daig.

o? l6 10 lha aps-ison: ut en old coupio vaose

i pura tane abine enarlidão, treir adraacod

---

## Page 35

14-00000

no la haginalis to varty tes assilos, but tsass don and daustrar/

18ajan are being cleared and ano dus to sore 1a ulla tibes dea

stainll cata cres. One liosaalas poot la la the boxe of Eba

CARpaRE DUpATVIDOr SNO DRA SUPPOTDOS LABOLO INES tIE atart; Des

jã Inalidas thi detaction dá 1155a grastad as the cossusty zetitara

astra 11nt0 renalag tito his toss for unla larestigatina purpase.

Ebe sorests latesins post lo 1o an apartmat bullding, and se

auroral the sarasy along the fiorro and vailo visa loa musiassa

•ta building to that sus more dia tap viroo lond so. Sha diegor

0100 aS tie uparatsea's cans Listenina poata cantributes so 150

eudi too expodura di oss 11st0dlog pest volud sot sosasardly

endaater ete ottera, Mirtasraare, Ita disparason sizoss 155470a

andy elast a snail part of lu operation, giesps la a lou 09209

moro she oporator al ano peas 18 avare as the oklacencs as asucher

becauso ba or aba sranslatan is product.

en: +0718657870 aran

...

---

## Page 36

14-00000

Despiia 1la ayaliai diegoraldo, aISOLO Das been nia lighely

¡and anosthly cvor the jea-a. The scot abusce fritor 18 "bo acquired

craggionce of some day jaradio and thair continully du the jot. The

colophose company superudoor aird ira ilesaa ce:rulied la 1950, and

e seccod ilneion recruliod in 1953, 01111 suppore the uperailoo coday.

A contract dent to began oferalilig, une

of the l16senid8 poses 10.

1953 decruse tha pilasial outside care ofilcer for die Whole operaclon

1n 1757; a pondeion ho silia holds: so bão a 950o al booo esere be

repaira and tunee lip

h1otenias-000t, croratore in do alnor mpaire; la addiesos, la aposka

Spartan

surad

Pollab and con subat tou:c

regior 90n11053 did traig

The Crock

+20П920405 С00 0040 51

the job alace tie tastallasion

en tho plaot cacon dina do buse. To ductroit agguza

who oparato

11orarInó posta sial du Pransio: 10a8 lus: 9 Rees W1.:

i$sl, Tuea tiero am ie Pi 110ld recrio corsected viti. the opera-

or a telephone-so operallon depents. In laide part do our abillig to

keep in piaco those peraone tho mare descioped to regalrei

stills and

cosir jora. Mala polit ves sure

10

pieroni ander

proration the disobe, obo sanct te

"an? sid

inary the birtise

2Ã9 PINE AGULGAT.

in girls

---

## Page 37

14-00000

PART iTi.

0:0:100. 01.

"e's

bie: #::00818 40081196

sovero:8'4: 1+0 01111918 591

rare 1i Argilatio vies ila Dialido

C790S ICE 1US160460

picio ip

so arora produce do to pierduno day-ino bidispira

repare, aid iDs is;90 el duo Cubar, Eciles, Cicia, and lugosiar iluoo.

incensed in: eso? d: britisan i: to 19a1sid:108. Too catalio i290

¡lesis, in tie .50dg

ortioni la too seatino cropor deo is maponostie ler ticini, this

we do train demo, 10 itio

Iceo 49500 +48098 100 3505193 dir an

to:.

i drive finda nail in

ince the dier dio and ra?

---

## Page 38

14-00000

intan des

49р: 1N:

191 1

sintag tristi

sue conda no ten pay colise id

japone are la piaco; due listilalis rojori, la tranoiripto, aut

22e 35a:1la:1030 Are da En atadien, and tie 199i0 lo do erariDiacas

ane ta the honda of the transiatira, Melo eariy-comias

acinetton mia glairleuilon 10 chiy a tirot atop, bui ni 15,00*45.

', tn the sintiona cinalaucio artoro do tresanit prosptig resó

trenadance protal do dea lago aud

15542 149d0.

---

## Page 39

14-00000

•Вії.

116a1ca to leadquartero do sais prasicio, in lia fasel piaco, by sta

qually of tho hinbisgdi repus giaparad dy the Basitora at lea

Interep: CoRrer, Mani dr osi diesesinablo saforantioo aspears lo

casa dally report. Erera sories ci li aro sede dach sorajas por

a1Eulta2e0u0 diatritution io la Dio? al Station and tha tuo raparta -

officere; tha tranasripra and isaalarlono dio diatributal to operá

110ao cécloera accordine io 1ieir epocialtioo. Fius, mora co tho

cariy-sprulog Darvga: goes a di ditierint sauto os te starica st

Cha sato d1aa. Mos moperte tricare ?ire do oras tho dediighto

rapore sor cablad intumatiss mairte ts siadquariors. Astas that

tRoy sIaNIDa tha CuoRa Lanacri;S lor AddItional dotalle or 1teo.

A dissalsable 1ntorasalo0 thai soprara in the traandrfats or

L'SDALATODO OT BOUSOI, CorcE: Piiles, end Yugusiar iliad lo bonuget

to sir aitention by tha 5247:538 511100r9. And at any time,

Chey my resire a noto er a parasai malt fron tha Calor of

19 2bs InesdIata t59N6a160107

of repartabla laformativo, Do ina: 199 mlua ul1l nos Do :090 o

H30H.407436040800. 60072

---

## Page 40

4-00000

P:'leie ti deaeindG Cill Sad pipiee E?

1at :no01: 2:

4:2"

.5=.

1 :Ba9at ici; tüt

maiisie teitrtiid sod ain ari

2÷.1.

"==

weiné.

roct car

w.:..

i "pgttpini" ia"

iirtind.

".t iedet ti.

Gany 11÷305.?61:

rU wit1

rde wiy i

to:r.4: 1-0.20-

se=38-ar-9 idaló do the a95e dl aaiosaire dage, dloy esy pirr no

tere in thü triurd ul tlleceni ilias duna aguerhl saidnl perflaid;

B-i te

wiprincipes loudera il e itmaint-froni dlesuicali'n", 4is

oga i-oraide biri! next soite.

llo recohitd too disaltttdierit

141.3

Ise1r iiumalid. 1iit

wi te ralods tiagosatd ioe.the".

..i mn cianj are dornà nano dta ilitbarabtte trces ches lude digi ri=:

16:241

Hge9r coda grried 10a 1a0e:194690, Sat 10 595951

"EG HInn SLD 0IEO Ei dA MRiOT:

12asa 2r0 100

ApilAL sa:icO

199e

•ce leeo deet Mla Ghaaie Sied'linai Liirtltiicet

....--.

....

lede! We Mal!ie. De Dalapidro

...?.

orie tuttldee, id.

119 ine;.n

Toe rusdee di lurio dueri

ii tRei,utay.',

lwae do celln Dige Gordo lelee

1t.01e

it va-e-

""sas"!!"

"ise "d re:

lti tge dee Elpaitl "sd ati Vidi

y' ye !

ccrwe clebee Gle G Ge0 E lddG0d Gid mult Eatr.

-.-!:?t: M0i901

1O1e.1e6:140-90111904

Plile Mao Dro tees Guanktieg

reporte deiooi.

.. i":

itras, s.

---

## Page 41

14-00000

I.d a 3100.

co dia: la diready 130i

SERNA IA

largot peitora 119 dod adgenina-cet.

Toey stei, 15 Sälitice, ilis

ouber good repurto offliera, en intiage sunieine of tio local

acone did da iia personalissos, ant iney zual 1307 0o to da!1 or

Local ampuls to extasel re resina do the locoi presa. Cl deu isc

APOrIE DÉfiCeTA NO NOTA dE LUA ESOLUGi OS LEDOLO BUU IBUDINT, 009

has beas wn ist iraseut dão fair ant 2ne bail joaid, uns tae ciser

par tre jears. ¡lhe tho nativy bonitora, sony bang doveloped las

---

## Page 42

4-00000

Mie plailie araductillo do tha varivas lices of ZAIOIST, ast

•The scot produitaro 1100 or ZAU0INI, es dece:aisal iron li didaisativa

dont of a labor coctedarailos, a loader lo loal and regluLai

Cassws188-9509: 86114121e8; the lap on lla attico picka produced

apost one lifet of the operation's dipopssialed reporta. The sou:

prolific larges Instaliation vas sta Cuiss 5909567, vinoo diroe Lines

accounted for aDo-quaiter ot INJEIT'a prAtatiOn. Ta TUU Ilses ai

2D0 cuten prodd servico, an tea other baad, toro suor producera.

TuerO 18 an iNCODE-A CONDIDATION OI SITE 1IÓ DONE 11000 Cas

shous an laseratira production record. It conslata ci one lima la

1De boodqjartars of as acti-DOYOKE, pro-cuban orgaulzation too: ins

@XLAnalio auppure 10 poiliical pod latoliactual circlea; 1uo ilos

lia too hors of ica kuldlag sylnte, a forsor Predlder: of the coulery;

sid iião li ine bes of lies illnior med ai une organization; sod asa

11ãe to 409 bazo of a prodingde lorellosturi use la cory active in

we organtiaticas aélairá, Chose 1ii9 lines printied over 30% it

29J0IM9'y 1150021004id ceporto. The seccalled it choso reporta

roporting. Wies as erece cuchia or la duo lo decur 1a valia too

principal sancers of the orgacizalian 10 iciorasced, 1e ilii bo

гОРОГ•ОЇ 1Д

---

## Page 43

14-00000

"?=.

t1a0.

inting.

Tual 1n, provided ide Individini lines do produce ee trag-

Desis; tue ilnes a!

tHe suer jlininone sombers al Die Cr8ilaire610s

Be espped, du: they aste produced very lilila, Aitoriaci lco

s1so sarge: Lines sentieded adore produced atou: 808 cl ERJOr?'&

dieseniased repores. The fire lises of Ua Sorded esisasy 86-0415°09

los 108 0f, the unerailor's

producilon, aud the orkar 11i9e friénies

caly a ser scatiamó reporte each, Me production oi die bine uca:

protectire lines

¡nice througneir me year. Duds cincinutty belgo ta benitera

and prioris offligra to see tia acculta of unfoldlas execes, as 89

Bas our custarare haus clien arrased the need for d cooilaila!

Plan bad bein jinleg cate

se taro teened production di decidi;

Durars or

nobili;

00 1159

rter,

Durian the pati jost, lie

since :?

ex 283010'a dideen:-=-ad

rts"

tries: de 10r9 in certate ther

i:""

---

## Page 44

14-00000

tioma:10.

io aitai".

io tirat

- 118. -

Intelligence prodottaty di ania dice in aroup of lises doe riccacio

adrantaree do caraica centee linea eo luce dunee, ca il trica ae

in trare tbe estata rá tee proluat.

Bore erar:

sero dove, Bio di a ditor sendo se 19 lapssicia deo sinis

dallaren: areng, sad do satinst lio arotecla productarliy di gradected

cp2 r941210,

Catani

---

## Page 45

14.00000

in bia reparte altistro, aud do Boal of tla case dificare so vall,

aid tial ls a 50os voralia soulergo of Spaniao. Tra "Iniri!a9l0n

of the Spariri-innevago io tron tre ERi319T luteroopo contes and

tra 2PSOLA 11109n139 5098 il 00: dologa: by tracalatler, 1ico 160

pallias of the coret, Cinta, ragnolar, aid Fallad Ilneo, valch

Pateriali in Sprül8t

twit ine:

privere pretti li lare 11 tris

ccuo:1e011nus 100% tie, te.

rin lee Ea: 227a1

Mo possibilley di circaesintino ina lenciao, Croce, Pollaio, inn.

Pil in arder lo radure

2ca.d.i1tir and Arareidturo and dal Gliono che distrettol 11

→..

Pette inade HOdEe9.

?%.6

ronaldegistood

inesi il

.!!.

DELATEI

---

## Page 46

!.a= tis: 11.i.

dostllett.n ncoid'üi.

Mailarand do soi lwe tif tiii

:.x= =

ei -lsetesttir.

Ü3 ÈLN

ooidii iitei noe.

ret ? d : 1.?"..

"= ii:e

a.:ie

==:*4.-391

---

## Page 47

14-00000

Every sining te

thats

35h:3:ü1?13

thie

Sovie: 11590; art.

¿tice: 100e duer to 115r00r1g1.9

and brandiselaid 110e 10a Marias alias

11n90 Of LUCITY, and cite car:a

11i9e do beth, the inde alticero

Loos plassily for neu upergioni leado, bus togy alo?

do at th10

arago too acting oil of unar dili do retained and via: visi ba

threnn guay. The sa cada cilicer estimaias that abour 168 8 cs

axo 16 cop: and geno Into case lino; too soot do carour avey.

D0:a:sa mind not doug free iro

1410 inter Bedro

Dillig 10 19÷910p900d asd tecriiieed..

The

case t!.?

digisbst:a-33.1419?

Los relapira tapo scuries precide a linco

4e t04

+ 14411

i calded}

ST

1964:10),

acnailly, h1o rola" 100s

Mine its duperioro, did collectioo,

---

## Page 48

remarke do S5 villier. the siloisal do derlead less tie solephone

capa tire yo: a real for lee kind do baa tha barge: perdos do.

sishondo you dare caron sat bia." Ail luroratio conaideral iod-

51208; a5l to 0!20a razirso lt to loe care officar concerned eith

Nio obs cremato or direciliao. lo indo voy be beepa abreast orery

dOY Of IDA SAIALlS CÉ OURSELOUS DiN iDO GIIO DIO CADA OFEICETO EDO

beroil? d die guldtiie at disiy

---

## Page 49

14-00000

. :

e.':

t.rd.

11..a.

ii'.

j.s'n-*.

s...!".?

:e-.'

,==.

''n tela:

C:iKE

0en,!1 1. 40 0114!. Ge61! dod d1 COolel. PlAedilnca

en op0s ictrerieh gatdel imi. ü0 dibiuh treáedid dir ilut

a:n:ayo i50 sesa.a-ra 1a 121.20

e:l", :.

Crart? arcnitet.

'lea-

cIonally aot ué cus inlurenlt: tnti Lai ile rogkiras

iraise01n'e

n:t100, aid ü'üt eni el Lie MHistißo:

tactor troedla'ety taseo; *kr

Inforzailan 16 149 9191:01..

ceat ti tipie

gont "ngre hare

tirotred

FupU Muleda 6or Aeo 10 conen Gro C0i1d1d1d

et 1oe411e

ioul'!"s.

Ohe IB99aNE sudtier sl thaltene

ai.1ai ?1 inl

iries

ta toato tii8 vsy to

Comenniol, Ch!i's

rith tid teip ti

'.8:3

?-9?:

as-astg; tid

.: Y9G

Inorede!. to rGhl: ao d0ad dererelidities

ae:e antit: eil.

and dg van teliiiee le Piit Di5.

fore tx

"re+r

e tcli.ra Iena141.

a.la:on. ":.:e 11r69:%d.

Tur eeodoe id d0i?

'ejei nccidf !"

MEeuielA. C l baede d' dir lieel tle diroeilleld Gre alflatsiino

91l 20:: 10:..00 11dt 19 d0:fi!

oictilanee deni ali: ocd

crgdtia?d

Wdis #ti dn,tdt10ddi

siurei ii log ecife

розі.

Te pitt"

lee c9!a0G Mopnö Gel Mijtnlai:y

"e: titêr.

ii jcon jeai in idinidirlt

1•=ces- 1.910 sir 2-i10:i3

..::

11:..e.6li, d000ed/ 0e 19091, M0: 11e MHllng de intt?

Tea? Et

wie caulry, do Clrrise"y

iiaogeiingt miiehi tie

,i.e. •

---

## Page 50

14-00000

calid ne de red entesion.!

itor

itts

1 te Re 9 3'0 9-11:10.

•1733

---

## Page 51

14-00000

he reado:

property, "na: sin 9x19:01ie 19.0ç?a0-C9p C0r0rag9 do 40 11000

acation's atronia an d! 11a ability to expiost alto=tirely toa

nada of inieiligence and dieroriora, datorsa:100 acquirod sroo:

cha tapa, Inare 1s aloo lie quastini ai larges arailability; s

large station moult vasto 1:1 sinage if 11 excandad dis tap

carraga--a estan siù naturai UnRe--to carsala cl ailgar thierost

cas stier 1riiisea:0na el die variaby ald laporcarra de the targeto.

goreronaits cl troli eno countiles. Test la the ail-laportant cuban

target, vulch has luised cat to de sary pictuatire. Tore art ita

Finally, there are to represenia lina of una USSR and ite Auropean

and aot into the crucing boate ily are scationed.

True, toe

¡agai dida are directed do a diúo varioty di lorAi,

regiura: Nit

8:50.

in solitica to do chio! of Cation 31 hid darry, Lore

parises

---

## Page 52

repares dilisers, tho intelligenio saiisis, and one pautograppar.

ie coe; respero of lie a'tion give sainistiallye or ciericai

suppers. To cap operilvas aid the moisted surrelilance dad darests-

gatino proteits requira ta fuil tina of irc case orficato 13 los

BestIa. De product of los lapa is dilaisod 1s part each day by all

tba older scarica caoo olicaro, to rhose aparationa 1e sakes a sas

acantia: ¿casributIon, IPSOLO end IJOLT, charefore, are sol opera-

tiass diai: tru lie ottero, tut are I'erecraa 1a10 snai or tse

AE ISTA

---

## Page 53

14-00000

Ino excolleare al lão alation'o tuo lap oparatlona lo rellacted

in thair operational reportlag. lor progress of ¿RICITY for eDo

past throe and abitai! years la succlealy sold is alacily acts-

rities reporto, Legun in M lili, 1hase reports are j'apotebos

"al abou: chree 29808: armagol 1a lia lolico1s8 doquesio el algat

hoallaga: l, io 11598 in opora:lor duriaa lka mach; ?. tha out-

a. 11a181n devalegonita; i socurity; b. cacasical 7.

8. production; a iles of the infulantion reporta soce dy cablo or

disprcon in bendyla-cers. Tie caso reddings diraja sprear, lu tho

aang order, 8o

Ecatte: Da3

ha pu: into auca a lily pairage. il iurera in greni daidil tha tro

BUÜMOULO LUSÙ MiE Di GIBAIGRE LADOrLANCE In Di LORApesdOsi speration

1ojanded priaarlly E jroduco Ci, CE LiLDITaliCA asd cporsilosal loado:

11n98, aio 990u51iy Procidas, D19a90t do buticipalos, dod 119 S0e54r08

piassad di tabeair due acattos, cocoal, sta cuiler ij il eporationai

leade by g:a110n offliero, aed lie usa cade in aigr1:1:a01 1196s ol

Cl. J infomation. T16 reportita of Che LierOlichã: iliaross of

Ol delli: diú esa:ies ibts ló praga! dO AC0L-319 8i.0uãt 2é 10052

cjor0:100s dien Maled in d0 s0 it Lee agge: il datrociii9g.

Aart

il scuroe, ineos aiaoritled aie Abiittlei 0112 150 ioid-ii did

---

## Page 54

14-00000

The saay factera that edier luto lee sucieda of a 29i91Ic=0-28p

oporatiia shoull de apparea! éros dio Soresodis decola" O! CAiLO and

ZRUCHHT.

The sain wins viil be irielly notes teles.

1. Erererio: To extrair a valiatlo inteligence fradur: 1ross

uno dilll ul the sorriere, noo suri separaie ise dura: tris ine sial?,

não tra mitii of da mieita atricero dio Duas pu: ecao car lidadorsary

corrersailons inin

saninenal. to:..1d.

mia exerien e dl Indir: juai koy .

Do:terg :: s: =,9r0:10.

:B

candidão nal tracoa14s10s, tron suiliore do case efiicero, lo poparta

officero, lo Headguarrara.

1. were 19

uhola proceda dois down.

Putal.

inceros: ani de saios by de choleo de argol dues, of incito's

un anaisas (risier iratrioted for iais oferationai

sid best de ald by lie dando and yushity of the produce.

.a1ot tor operatico saudd toi dinrarale inte a raitie de

---

## Page 55

i. 21:221109

riopen done degend for their iratesarasy

sarcired, not li 10 put espion so ai care anti i: is so-diãaty lo

do vie nil vell.

• directed. by one jerdon and nores 1ato too stailor's nirt so a

uncio. then trioptero-ide speraiduco ano pilario, 11to Erai and

wuer 109-j019:10n

1÷ A

---

