Sip)

CU. S. AT MIAME .AS A CUBAN REFUGE. HE IS A SELF-ADMITTED _’

-  Drrogate os + H

wi TOCA

- tet eT “7 Vh Geckground Use Only
TO: [Losvos] 1xF0 [Caracas] r lg Mo’ Reproduce
WNINTEL aebat KMSTONE MHSPIKE : ana a

ib-i oe a
REF; [caracas) 31409, (IN 097618) : :

1. RIGARDO MORAL ES -NAVARETTE (200-0285923)WAS BORN
14 JUNE. 1939Q°IN HAVANA, CUBA, IN OCTOBER 1960 HE TOOK REFUGE ‘IN °
(ANA AND ON 29 NOWEMBER 1960 HE ENTERED “THE.

THE BRAZILIAN EMBASSY IN 1

FORMER G-2AGENT, MORALES WAS FIRST SPOTTED AND RECRUITED IN
MIAME. IN JANUARY. 1964 TO. BEUSED “AS. A RADIO MBBLOPERATOR: AND"-MEMBER *

OF PARAMILITARY INFILTRATION TEAM. “HE WAS SUCCESSFULLY  POLYGRAPHED.
ON 10 “FEBRUARY 1964. HE. WAS PAID.A SALARY OF $200 PER MONTH
EFRECTIVE 1-MAY, 1964, HE WAS TERMINATED ON 26 AUGUST $1964 AND
WAS NEVER USED. IN ‘A BKHERALD ‘SPONSORED MISSION. HE HAD RECEIVED:
TRAINING IN-MIAMI, AS WELL AS Gsonetarc)ano(nxcosids) HE”
VOLUNTEERED AND SIGNED UP FOR A PARAMILITARY ACTION IN THE CONGO
IN’ SEPTEMBER 1964. ALTHOUGH HE RECEIVED TRAINING TOWARD THE CONGO -
MISSION, “HE°NEVER SERVED. “MORALES WAS. APPARENTLY TURNED OVER’

TO THE FBI EN 1968 BY MIAMI°STATION. IN OCTOBER 1972, Gon 24
(DEX PREDECESS | REGISTERED MORALES WITH MIAME ‘STATION AS THEIR

SOURCE.° : ee
ae Se Ol, io
2.) THE FOLLOWING MAY. BE. PASSED*TO [aacuan\rF fetarroN LONDON
BELIEVES WOULD: BE OF INTEREST. -
RICARDO ‘MO RAL ES NAVARETTE, BORN 14 JUNE 1939 IN

‘ N OCTOBER 1960 TOOK@ REFUGE IN THE BRAZILIAN EMBASSY .

HAVANA, CUBA.

_ IN HAVANA AND QN 29 NOVEMBER 1960 HE ENTERED THE U.S. AT MIAMI AS A

CUBAN REFUGE. iHE 1S A SELF-ADMITTED FORMER G-2 AGENT.
