# 104-10186-10072

## Page 1

104-10186-10072

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

IN RMATION REPORT WINFORMATIOn REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRBT

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTArCUba

REPORT NO.

SUBECI RAUl GONZALEZ (allas "Olexi")

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

C81-316/00627-65

10 February 1965

1

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

C5-311/00115-61

(page 7)

8 July 1964)

DATE OF

iNFa.

1964

PLACE & Mashington, D.C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INPORMATION

SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DIPIAUTIVR APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Convents

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information fron the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees hake no action on any of

the individuals sentloned in the personallty reports tithout

first checking with this Agency.

Raul GONZALEZ, allas "Olext," recently joined the

Departamento Ilegal (Illegal Department) of the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence-

He previously worked with the Union de Jovenes Comunistas

(U.JC).

GONZALEZ, who is Caucasian, was born about 1943, or 1945.

He' is

five feet

seven inches tall, weighs 145 pounds,

and has

dark brown hair.

Habana, Cuba, his telephone number is 33iel° 307, Vedado,

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of ihis Agency reveal no identifiable information

on Raul GONZALEZ.

4

2

SECRET

NO

FOREIGN DISSEN

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

NAVY

REP

CINCLANT

CINCSO #

I AiR

I&N'S

INSA :

(WEX

I OCR

I FBI 2

Noto. Fratd distibution indicatod by "=''.)

NORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

AL SL'EOB.

LAY SA NOB

HE,:5 R

HE MADR

IT TE CANADAD

2 CI-B&A

3ü IE BRIIISH

RED, AN

TOTALS

TH'SA

(1), WE 1 (2), CY 4, RID 1

M2290; UrGA 19020

(49 Dec. 64)

NO PROJECT (ANMUG/1)

i CSCI-315/ 00627-55

• COORDIMATING.

BLS: LD.

CLiBE

ADRI 80

19-5-1

---

