# 104-10529-10365

## Page 1

104-10529-10365

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

77753

29429

a..

OCE

BRADER

XaS 7454

17. 00T 63

BOOK MISBACE AS PELON.

170cröz 502

STG. CEN

375: Cos"?

l, tr?÷l."

, ti c, daS i,

SATYNE

INFO

76506

BASS

NIXI

SACO. CARA

FAVE COAT PACT BAN RADE QUIT BRIL BOD BUEN

FRBATI

LATIN ABRICAN WIRLY BLURTS (HOTOWN IN SLANTS)

LEXICO CURA MALICO IPOTROLY LAB ACRID TO SELL ITS ENTIR

1983 VERT US 27500 T TO SI TRE ME THE COCAI

PURCRABTRG AGRIT FOR TES BLOC. TRICKERI, A PREORIST ARGITTINE SOM

ORATINO OUT CO OUTTISELATO, LAS PESVIOUILT DINESE BOUGHT FOOD IN

IROACO PO CASTRO, AND TIS PROPOSED PERAT PURCHAES SAY ALSO ME YOR CURA.

1OS BALE PACE TE AROVS THE FORLD MANIT PRICE BUT LOT TES BICA

MASTIC PRICE PAID TO MEXICAN GRONERS BY TUB MEXICAN COVEANEKET PUR

COSTA RICA: THE US LECISION TO SELL: WABAT TO TAS SOVIET DETON

18 CAVEIRO DANT COSTA RICAN TO PAYOR SEOGIS LIBRATION DE THENA COMPETE

HM6H 24 165

CAINE ATTU TUAE TRADR VITE COMMUNIST NATIONS, ACCOMING TO M

RELABLE SOURCE

A RECRIT EDITORIAL IN LA ABPUBLICA, PRICA

PRAY BALACTO EE CLION ON THE INCURRIT NATION LIRATICA PARTY

ADTOCATIO INVISIBO TUS COUNTET'S TRADE POLICY IN THIS LESPECT. ALSO.

A CONTA RICA'S CHRONIC ECONOMIC DIYZICULTTES COULD SECOURACE A SHIPP

8 8C BEE

---

## Page 2

ORiG

UNIT/:

HAIF :

O INDEX !5

D NO IMDEA

O FILE IN 'CS FILE NO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

03CB02

FROMi DIRECTOR

Cost:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PAGE -S 0F8

¡ INFO

NARE 05T9

SATIS TAR HOXDUSAN MOLES CONTINUES TO EA

ALERICAN CO

LANES CRA

DABOCRATIC COVEBNIKH

JUKSETOR

THAT THB: CASIE

ECADES TO DO 8O PICT

I CLAMESETING RESORT COUP MOTTING IT DIS

I8SBTS THAT TES CORSPTRATORB ARE BRADY TO

USE THR PESTEXT TRAT A COMANIST COUP 18

BE

SAT IN

TRY OY TIS PISALTA

SCISS GIDORS ANTI BOTULET ERASURES WHICH DAYS THROWN TUS COSMUNIETE

INTO DIPOLER, POLICE FORCES IRIS PLACE: ON ALSIE ON 14 OCTORED, BUT IT

18 BUT CRAB THSTEER THIE GAB PROMPTED BY RUMORE OF A COUP.

J. PARAM: PORTCH INSTER SOLIS SAYS TRAT BIS COUSINET VILL,

XN TUS ARIT FIT VENKS, AGAIN IBQUEST FORMAL NPGOTIATIONS WITH THE URXTED

STAYS TO LIVIA IS 2903 THRATY COVERING, THI CANAL 200.

HITE A

med't

BB CBSI

REPRODUCTIONDY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS POMIBITEO.:

AUTMINTICATING

OFFICER

•: Capy Na.

---

## Page 3

CLASSIC A

PAGE -S 8

76506

PURBTIINPIAL FLECTION SET YOR KITT BAY, THE CHIART GOVERNMENT'S RAISING

O0 THR CRIAL SONS PROSEN AT TETS TIME SABAS INTENDED AS AR ETPORT TO

KRSP TAS NNXTIAPIVS ANAY THON ITS OPPONENTS ON THIS NICHLY ENOTIONAL

ISS SIS ANTID AS LUCA BY SAYINO MAT TIS OPENING OF RECO

TASTERS TOULA MERED THS PANAMANIAN PUBLIC QUIRT - (CONT):

6 BOMINICAN IPUBLIC> CONTINUING POLITICAL ISOLATION AND PS-

PORTIO COUNTARCOUD PLOTTINO BY BOTH ITS OPPONENTS AND SONS AYOUSD SUR

PORTERS ANS DATING TIS NEY GOVIRENTS TUTORS INCHLASINCLY UNCERTAIN.

TRTOLVIRATE LRADER EMILIO DE LOB SANTOS IS REPORTED TO BR

ANXIOUS TO ESBICR ALISCHLY ABCHOSE OF HIS DISGUST EITH SORDID AC-

PLARS OF TIS POLITICAL PARTIES, PREZICIPATING IN TEB REGIS. CIVILIAN

BUSTARD ILLITANY BAC

KBES OF THE NET COVERVISNT ARE LEYUBING TO

SALTSOVIES NIR FOUR TO JUAN CABASMOVAS, PEASIDSIT OF THE DISSOLVES

BINATE AND TEX NO IN PIES IDENTIAL, SUCCESSION UNDER THE ABROGATED CON

STAXY SION TRO CLAINS TRAT A RECENT QUORUM OF TYS DEPOSED CONGRESS

ESCHELS BECTED ITS PERSIDENT IU HAS DUEN SEEKING FEMISPIERIC RS.

ONE COOT TION 93 THS COISTITUTIONAL PRESIDENT

ACUADOB, PEN ECUADORBAN ARMY OFFICERS IRS TAXIRS A 75 DAY

OCESS TO SEATL, ON AGRICELTURAL ADRI STRATION TIR SCUADORRANS FTLI

---

## Page 4

ORIG

SUNIT

-Er?

CUASSIFIED MESSAGE

PICAST

1] INDEX

П.NO INDEX

Li FILE. IN CS FILE NO.

3

ita

¡ROUNAG:

6

10:

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF, '

PINFO:

70

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO"

CITE DIR

76506

Sor AT 5

10 JUNEA, ATCH TONEL AND SCUADIR STEST

(CORs)

8. ACHABOR.

VIVA PARTY BAS METABARO MIS MERT'S LISATION SO SIZIDES ITS GUTO

ON TO CONTAINE VETERAN JUM, IS AVOCATIO TAS NEITAS LOANI

I3 DETEND A LAS O TA ASITIOUS BYSES UNISES, ONERAL AURUIO

ARARIO, NO DAD BRIN CLOIR TO TAS COMBERVATIYSS!

DEBURLALS

TER MINSTER OF DEYKHES POURSZES A DUSTERN TIL

CARATS LY FEIRORIST ACTIVITARS IS INTIMATED 2O THR US ARASSADOR dE

WE ARMY IS HATING EBOUBLE SUPPIRSSING VIOLENCE LANGLY:

SCABER OF THB COVERNIRST & PABT LAXES. ER FAS GLOOKY ABOUT THR

VUTURE AND CRITICAL OF TAB CABRAL PURICS LACK O7 COOPERATION. (C087)

10, BOLIVIA: TIS POLITICAL PORSUIRE OF PISSIERET VICTOR PAZ

SIRESOSO, TO VILL ARRIVS ON 22 OCTORE TOR A THO DAY VANITROTON VIET?,

SAYS LI ESCRIT DONTES STRADILY KEPROVED, AND KIE POSITION IS NOW PEERABLY

81C BBY

REPRÖDUCHON BY OTHER THAN THE ISSULNG UFFICENS PROMIRITEON

Coo, Na:

---

## Page 5

GiAN

76506

STRONGER TRAN AT ANY TIES SINCE AXS ELECTION IN 1960.

SINCE THE FIRST

OP THE YAR, HR HAS SCORKD GAINS AT TAK BXPENSE OP HIS: PRINCIPAL. OR.

PORTITTS, THS BOST POWERPOL OF WIDE STAND WALL TO TER LEFT OF HIS AD

MN AND HAS SO FAR MARACED TO MAINTAIN CONSISTERCY IN IIS

POLTC1K8

BRAZIL //PISSIDENT GOULART HAS SUPYBRED TWO SERIOUS SETBACKS

-TIS OVERBLING OPPOSITION LA HIS REQUEST FOR A STATE OP

TECH WHICH FORCED RIN TO VITHDRAW HIS PRQUEST A THIS CONGRESSIONAL

POTS ASINOR ACAIIET HIS AGRARTAN REPORI CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDENT.

SOWLART'S BACKTRACKING IN TET PACE OF THS CONGRESSIORAL OP

POSITION TO HIS BROUSSY TOR A STATE OF SISCS REPREEENTS A SERIOUS PLOW

TO ISS SLATSONS VITH CONGRESS: THR FLOOR LEADER OF HIS OWN LABOR PArTY

TE ENTIC NAPLACTO AS A URSULT OF HIS OPEN OPPOSITION TO THE BEQUEST.

B-08. BASHSSY 1A BA

ABILTA COMBATS TE

DANX 39в-19

GER OR DISS

SOCLAI

*UNG TO IRIT ON 14 OCTOEER TO DISCUSS MARX

P.BI

ПРУТІВВ ВІЦІ

PORTED QUARTOS AGRANTAL MORE MOTORSE!

SACROSE, A

IS BIBASSY MCS COLNENTS THAT OONCESSSIONAL SEITIMENT FOR

818:0

BAT

---

## Page 6

• 17.1917.8

CLASSISTO MESSAO.

SECRET

800111986%

USTREAt

INFO

PAGE - 8 OF 8'

CriT oR 965.06

INCINO COMAN HAS MA COMMANY SENT

ID -BY

SCENT EVENTS,

ALMOST VANATO NOT TO MIS FOLIT OF POSURE AN TEMPTATE MASAT TO HIM.

IN ARRIVINE AT HYS CONCZUSION TO VITIDRAY HIS BEGUEST POR A STATE

O7 SIRES, GUILARS TUISED TO ITS LEFTIST BENTIRE IN LAT LBORS, BRIZOLA

POR ADVICE, ACOSEDIRO TO A DECALLY BELTARS CLANRSTIRE SOURCS THEY

MASTERY LORDO THAT COULAST ESOLO TAGST FISCARDS ATRALS TOR

TARTA, FROM VARIOUS COVERTOIS, ATON, AND GRUBAT AND TRACESSAY

UNIONS AS A YOTS OF COMZIUKICS DO TIAT COULART MOULD CONCENTRATE

TED COLERIST ELGUKL, ARRASS, COVERIOR, OT FERNANCUCO, HAS

ALRANT HURLICLY PROCLATISO COLLART'S ACTION AS A VICTORY FOR THR

HOCHESBIVS PORCES.

ADS INC TO COULARTS SONS IS DISSATISPACTION IN TIB MRITART

RETAR TIRE ORD VAR SURIETRO RIBBIROS RANDLING OF TER MORESTIOR

THB STATE CP SIEGE TUB US ANY ATTACHE HAS SEEN A LITTER PRON TFOB AREY

CHIRP OF STAPT TO REBBIRO IN WHICE HE CASTIGATES TER VAR MINISTER POR

NOT HAVING DISCUSSED TIB SITUATION WITH MILITANY LEADERS PRIOR TO

USOISO COULART TO SEEK A STATE UP SIEG /1

8B C BB T'

DESCES ANOMICITEU.

---

## Page 7

ELASOARD DESSAGE

BECRET

-.-.-

CITE TE

76506

.12.:

BRAZIL: BAY TRIACO DANTAS, A MAJOR BRAZILIAN POLITICAL. PIGUES,

RAS TOLD 18 AMRABBADOR CORDON THAT IN 18 HORS PRESTISTIC ABOUT BRAZIL

THAT' AT ANY TIME SINCE COULAXT CAME TO POVRE 19O TRANS AGO.

DANTAS. WHO WAS DOTE FORBIGH AND PINANCE EINISTER IN GOULART'S

CABINET, SAID THAT. WHILE PLEASED WITH TER & WITIDRAVAL OF THE STATE OF

SIER" IOURST. BE FELT THAT TER EPISODE HAS FURTHER INDERIINED CON-

NICE IN TIE VIABILITY OF THE DESEC INSTITUTIORAL STRUCTURE OF THE

COUNTIS S

EX BLIVEST RAS LAID TUS BASIS FOR PURIER POLARIZATION OF

POLITICAL, OPINION

DARTAS TETAKS TRAT THE PRICIPAL IRASON COULANT BITHONEY TIN

REGOAST AS TRS IMBETVS OPPOSITION TROT TAS DO CALLED POPULAR FORCES,

BY URICA BS ERANT LETTIST RSTRKHISTS, WHO PROBAELY FELT TRAT TER STATE

07 BIE NECT IS ISED TO TAOS ACTION AGAINST TUSS. (BUO) //

HORALIGED STATES:

OF TITIS ENTOURAGE CONSIDER THAT HIS ASCENT VISITS TO BRAZIL CHILE,

AND BOLIVIA VERS PATLURES ACCORDING TO A USUALLY BILIARLE CLANIRSTINE

BEXICO HOURVER APPARETTY DECAUSE

3. DP THE CONSIDBRADLY LARGER PUPLIC

TUMOOT RITO ASPORTEDL: CAUSED SOLE CONSTERATION ANONC DELEGATES

SECRET

---

## Page 8

INSA

BACBET.

ROUTINE

CGEL ASCIS

MAGE -8- OF 8

CITE DiX: 76506

POO PIS MORALICO STATIA AT TIR UN BY HIS MANG TH LAST ARICA

TRAT TIN CONCHPY ON BLOCS AND FORALIGIUD STATES HAS ESIN SUMESRDE

BYE/VEN DIVIATON OR THE VORLD LUTO STAYSE BORTIE POR MESACS IL CO

BXXSTENCE" AND TROSS AGAINST IP./1

14, THE LATIN AMERICAN PRES TRADE ASSOCIATION:

THE LATIN

ABRICAN PIES TRADE ASSOCIATION (LAFTA) IS CURRENTLY IN EARSION TO

ICOTZATS A CALL THINO BOURD OF TARITY EDUCTIORS ON INTRA REGIONAL

TRADE. THE LATTA THRATT RIVISAGES THE KLIMIHATION OF TARTINE OK

SUBSTANTIALLY AM INTRA-ESCORAL KER COMRACE BY 1972 AND INDICATES

MAT DE THIS VILL ES A STEP ZESTARD TE SVANTUAL FORSATION OF A

CONTIHENTAL CONSON MARKST. THE PROSPSCT RAS NOT ONLY STIRIED TER

ILAGIHATIONS OF ECONOMISTS AND SUSINESSMEN: IT BAS SPANKED THE INTEREST

Or POLATICAL LEADERS, NO FENCSIVE POSSIEL TISE OR DEVE OPTIC LAPTA

A8 A SEAL FORCE POR EXTENDING LATIN ANERICAN INFLUENCE IN WORLD

HAN COUNCILS

END OF MESSAOR

SO CRET

REMRODUCTIONLEY GUNER THAN

Tiller 1100011

Cupy Na.

---

