104-10193-10076

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

.

ta

a _ MATERIAL REVIEWED AT: CIA HEADQUARTERS -BY_

Bae {
liouss ‘SELECT’ GOiIMITTEE’ ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

. | CENCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: J%& ASA L. LULLED.

iz LYE £2 D

DATE aot : :
RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NANE) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
DAW MARL Bln dro

NO-DOCUNENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CEA tucanQuaRTERS BY
MOUSE SELECT SONNE TTEE ON ASSASSENATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

Wy

FILE) TITLE/NUNBER/VOLUME:_*

ae

i: INgLUSIVE DATES 7
CUSTODIAL wnrT/iécarto

DELETIONS, IF ANY:_

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE



“IW. Harvey, CLA. Aide, Dead;|

nen roup:
“-]set.up la the 4960's to plan tke pany. :

‘Linked to Ant Castro Plotting’ .~ - :

rey, reported? At the time.6t his death, MeJ
special CenciHicvey “was lave. editor” for|
‘Azeréy group-Bodds-Mernill ‘Publishing Com,

Walia K Ha
ly. the, head ‘of.
tral- Inte

foreign Ieaders"by!_ He waa butied Saturday at;
lmeshs .incliding , assasination, South <Cemetery -in Danville,
‘ited ofa Reset attack ‘lastiust, west ef Indianapolis He!

Wednesday ‘in an Indianapolis,is survived by his wite, Clata :

TOV:

‘hospital. iGrace, a daughter, Sally, and a. ae
‘Me, Darvey, wh was 60)son, James D, Harvey. i
nara old, said to have], i . =

cen in:charge of the agency's
lefforts. against Prime Minister
1 Castro of Cuba, He was
mong, 10 agents whose iden
ied "Were disclosed by the
[Senate Select Committee on La
telligence after'an investigation :
in 1975 of alleged assasuination
{plots by the United States,
1 William E. Colby, then Direc
itor of Ceatral Intelligence, had
argued that” disclosure of, the
|naines,of «agents would ° put :
ithein in jeopardy of retaliauog__ '
‘by “irrational groups.”
Ente, Marvey testified. before
the Sénate committee that he aD : i
had heen told by superiors that :
the Castor assasination plat had.
been aproved atthe highest
levels of the yovernment, aad -
that he had discussed the’ ef
forts with his imumcdiste 2upst—
ior, Richard Helms, who later
Degame director of the agency. :
Me. Harvey moved to Indian- ‘
apolis in 1369 after reuiriag ‘
from the agency, where he had-
Marked for22 years, He worked = « : i :
for the Federal Bureats of Iaves- : :
tigation from 1940 to 1947, :

|



13 Feo B68

Mz. Willlam King Haevey

- 28 Weat Irving Street

Chevy Chase, Maryland 20015."
Dear Bills :

1am eorry that due to a busy schédule and my
‘absence for several days during the Christmas holi-
days I-dida't 6 an opportunity to see you prior to

your retixemént at the end of the year.

‘Red, White’has told me of his visit with you,
and I'am. particularly appreciative of your expres-
sion of continued loyalty to the Agency and your
3 of asslotance should an appropriate

I extend to you, personally and officially, my
sincere appreciation for the important work you
have done and my warment hopes that you will find
full enjoyment in the yeare ahead,

Sincerely,

iiss

Richard Helms
Director

OP/BSD/RB/ MJRoper:jse
Rewritten:ExDir:sbo

Distribution:
0 - Adse

_ 2+ ER
1 ~ C/EAB/OS
1 - D/Pers
+. OPF
1-RB

{Concurred in by C/EAB/OS on 8 Jan 68)

NOTE: Covert correspondence
= &

eee



: : ee fees ae
\ : ee 5 { : 4}
; : i
Boe ec Prk: ae (fee
: Aieeee) : Chevy C : i .
\ eeeciae : Dear Lill: j
i : Ag yourreseh the end of yaue active career |
oe of Gove at enrvice, Ly. : {
eee andeslleny: wing y i -
. : and eutiofsetion in your eetiter.e i
: ae ae You hive by j
; i tynt rees ee
pea guccero with vile yoo bave mat th
feet ‘ eouree uflas ice and ssticfietion to you.
i : i
eee é : i officio lly, H a
ieee ry eincer: ee neaon
o ove that you will fied |
; fl enjoyment la the years ahead. i
H : : vincevely, i
fot Distribution: !
H G + Aduvessee a + .
ce 1-©DDcL !
1-ER i
1 - C/LABI/CS f
: 1+ D/Pers
1-GPY :
1
: 1 i
: i
: 1
|
i
i



1 Stat Roa

“f 051164

7 Nant taocd ras Maddie)

Y.. Willian xy

7 Natit OF MSR ROOT DEA PTE
Retirenent: -<C
(voluntary)

‘mOnTH Oat 7
: aed aegecnTe 12 tf 3h fot

[s CATEGORY GF EROVMENT

iNANCIAL ANALY

MESAL QUIMONTY (Completed By Office
= Plated by Offa

AZ

o ORGANKLATIONAL DESIGNATIONS:
| DDP/eUR™
Development Complement

+ [i Femon ie

Ops Officer

Washe, De Ce

Ta. POSTION NumaeR,

1a, CRS SEEN DESIGNATION

Ta CUASSINCATION SOMEDULE [GN TB ae?

1S COR PARONAL SEIS

Ve GRADE ANG STEP

5 27055 <

mans
tr. Harvey is not recommended for the Agency Reserve L{st.

Voir! aw

sth Chew, O93 Ky Blom 129/67.

Tat SIGRATURE OF CAREEA SEIVICE APTOON AG OFFICER

De EXCLUSIVE USC_OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

fo tania?

i

is _ ont of atm [se St oF eute

7 ___ exit oF

SHV IVE

Cy

UMKLLATOW OAT

EL

|[E=>

a sean
aw.

Pea

Com

i
on
un

coor To-wame

Soca steutTe 00

ono reves sent

Too ae re SC

ok SUNK (ES Pan MR)
Seve (noe ae 2 AS

We
a

45 POSITION COWTROL CEETCRTON

Dae



NEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence’ |.

quest for Voluntary Retirement =
‘liam K. Harvey

SUBJECT.

1, ‘This memorandum submits » recommendation for your approval;
thie recommendstion Ia containad:tn paragraph 4. Fr]

2. Mr. Willem K, Harvey, GS~18, “Operations Officer, European
Division, Clandestine Services, has applied for voluntary retirement under
the provisione of Headquarters Regulation 20-50J, to be etfective 30 Decem-

ber 1967. : : . &

3..:Mr. Harvey hae been designated 2 participant in the Gif Retirement
i and Disability Syatein cnd meets the technical. recuirements for voluntary re-
| tirement under the System. He is 52 years old with over 26 years of Federal
H Service. Thla service includes over 20 years vith the Agoncy of which more
than 9 years were in qualifying service overs <The CIA Retirement Board
has recommended that kis application for vohintary retirement be zpproved.
T endorse this recommendation.

4. It io recommended that you approve the voluntary retirement of
Mr. William K, Hervey under the provisions of Headquartera Regulation
20-505,

Bb . Emmett D. Echols
oe Directo: of Personnel

7 767 Rtoharg Relea 25 DEC 1967
— ——
Director of Contral Intelligence Date

i
i
1
i

: SECRET
a



i” Diatribution: |
: 0 ~ Return to D/Pors
. “Pepper: i C1 3

ieee
1 = D/Béra
++ OPF
1 = RB Soft (ile (w/bold)
: 1s RB Reader
OP/FSD/RE/MJRoper:ith (7 December 1967) | oa
Retyped: OP/F'SD/BDeFelice:jas (11 December 1967) : i

Lethe oF wets



> ee



od Fis TAS

Sud

nN



&.

“SECRET. aa

© gwen fut Bn

"STATEMENT of EARNINGS, and DEDUCTIONS

‘cost

aE
a1 | t36i186

‘THIS FORM 19 ISSUED ONLY WHEN AN-
EMPLOYEE ENTERS ON DUTY OF THERE:
13 ANY CHANGE IN THE PAY ACCOUNT

co DEDUCTIONS

DESCRIPTION

RORMAL

3 1102
4 1009

44 35014

? 750
for |. 1374 °
rs | 32948

‘OTHER

F/TAX 2

INS WEAPA
INS FEGLI
INS- UALIC
ne2n wosp 2
AGY Het

ia ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION BATA REFUND DUE FROW EWPLOVEE NET PAY
PP _for/nes|nt/wRs|wo/was] rate | O/T-HT AMT | N/D AMOUNT <0 | NORMAL r oTmer [co] NORMAL OTHER
| oq 147042
REMARKS? ioaT Hoa :
t 147032
!
» cd easy
. SECRET .

sy 1315.


ee ee secret

10 Ben tale ta

Coens

1942
004

13 CARER SLEVICE OI SIGNATION

EON aH eee oe, r-
(G3, LB. vic) 0S OCCUPATIONAL sents [70 GRADE anD'stEP

G36 87

Dd i
17 Satna ON ATE —

L$ 25,890

dS ES AR.

fa nme
co

‘ai oral [a

7. isis uuu
ir Ss aR TT ERE RT SE THES
fal Bie e hse
ta(- - ee : VEZ,
fare
mi
(asd ws

| seraiation

“ecun
ma 10

inh
uve uta coat

Coca SALI nO

ie scars a iad 7
eae ne ae na a
ce Bom
ikten
ails ten Sort et ae [a z [aaa
‘cone 00t frome eercur HO tax CxtMPTIONS |rOum enECUTED cout Pro te
Seer [ss ce
5 ROSMON CONTROL CERTINCATION . 3- 1S 67 WoO? arriown ‘att arePoveD
: me ; a
Pet BSS )

The’
9 SECRET

SETS? ee rawous eomone



ce . SECRET nen
nN tle bed a

SO
: aa) 2-/ REGULA .

CAE AYINOSTY ‘captond Cie

7130-1186
19 \OcaNton OF Ofna Bia

lesycx. DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT

7 aN TA
fat Stoo,

jp HASULN TON,. D.C
ON UMBC ‘

a cate

OFFICER Sgg7 epee
So ee CER Tak IR ai [it Sannin a fis Sa wine
Psa [ Of . fy rae 6
0136.01 ares Ls 2s,s90 6-7

1s.
‘a enars Brom: DDP/EUK/ FF/ COS; ROME,
subject departed the Station 21 March 1900,

Other. k y
Ae vee, sais BAN
Te “alte lo 7

cc security

MING A SE
[ar sca
eae

!
6 Es aT
0D pata >] j

com
ar aiPaaoN 2 contion
a com Jie [a

Their oman [ac oe on fe amie amen [wa am awamt fa aw a
ma. on a meen fara [eons Jeane Torin [oenimna coor].
fl mete ion
: H
Wi paevious civtian covienmint sevice [a inna 1a “Wott tar bah «a eee
} © Tog mas sina (8 ar EIR [coon ]mo. ai erro Yoome Taino ]eooe [SQ aT Hy
ae eture tro : cm a
pote it 5 ta > rae, ay ie

a Re an,
Co CE Gi aioe [ares
ae,
S/S

: : og Ral Srb— ban ¢

{StS 1152 use previous eomow i SECRET ‘



_ ever, there are a few situations in waich an employee at the time of retir

Cater of Station, Roae

joy
Directo: of hs ae Meat ee
OLLAGAGE - tification of Desigsation as a Participant in
The OFjaaszation hetiveisest aud Dluavility cyeten |

Action: Ae tidicated oO \
Re¥: Book Liopateh $096 O1aS = 7586

1... You have been found to ‘be qualified as a participant in-the Ur,aniaa-
tion Retirement and Cisability system and have been 60 designated afiective

21 Nuyveaber 1463.

. 2, Although euch designation under present otatutes iv. viewed favuratly
by most persons, the regulation governing thie retirement system gives the
individual the right to.appeal auch a determination if he deems the designs
tion adverge.to’hia best intercate, In order that this technical requirement
may bo satisfied, you are hereby notified of your rizht to appeal, An appeal
with reasons therefure must be received in Headquartero within 60 days of
the date of this dispatch or acceptante of designation will be assumed, Any _
queotions that you may have ia connection with your designation that cannot
be answered by referring to t:00% Dispatch 5496 should be forwarded :o tieade

quarters,

3, e@ believe that the benefite of the \-rganization Ketiroment system
are superior to the beneiits of the Civil aervice Ketiramen: system, howe

ment may.bave so many yearo of service (almost 37) that he would receive a
Bigher Snnuity under. the Civil service system, because of this, the pulicy
decision has been made that a participant in the \ rganisation system who
would roceive a bigher annuity under the Civil service aystem may, not.later
than one year prior to hie retiromeat, apply to be removed from cur system
and (ransferred to the Civil service system, Thus, you should not anticipate
this contingency a0 a factor in deciding whether you regard yoar designation
B participant adverse to your dest interests,

21 DEC 1935
3B, Ecar 25 DEC 1985

RICHARD B, EQ 4

72h

ons = 77793



SECRET es

ERS balled Ie

TOW AS PARTICIPA?

I. tS
sYsTe

HP AND. DISABILITY Ss!

7 COSE-CENTIR.NO CHARGE.

2a

Ws

CHIEF OF

FOR

0136.35

TT CLASSINCATION SOMEONE (GS. EBL amd i GCCuPATIONAL Seas

G3
Te ROS

PLOYSE WIT BS NOTIFIED BY DISPATCE

DESIGNATION AND OF HIS RIGHT OF

1 ce to OP/BSD/RB

3a sey Cour vert [108

Cow aN

THGi eat eae

= oy

a

BAL Ox at

atviogs Govtteatnt service Data

@ wrt ar
10

eae arc (woRt Tae 3 EL

ee,

rece [m0 tal Rabarons

_ [> rosmon ConTeor GeanescaTion

255 1157 ae raevous comon

ees



Fj » ss SECRET
h : oe && (then Fitted ay

‘| 3136-6300- cio

TO. LOGATION OF OFFIGIAL STATION

ROME STATION

al ROME, ITALY
greece eF THC cHier Leanne

12. POSITIGn wuMotR | 19, CAREER SEAVICE DESIGNATION

0262 D

Ter 17, SAtaRy oR RATE

CHIEF OF STATION

V4. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (4S, LB, efe.)| 15. OcCUPATIONAL SrmIES [16, GRADE

. [aici
. : |__0136.01 18 a ae
en ov Tite cuter/0662, V2 fara }
APPOINTMENT MEMO TO-DCI SENT ON 27 MARCH 1963.'\”
259 SENT TO MEDICS ON 15 MARCH 1963. Secsili a

REQUEST ALL NECESSARY CLEARANCES BE GRANTED PRIOR TO 1 JUNE 1963.
COPIES SENT TO FINANCE AND SECURITY, CSVDP 4g fo4

: ‘ COILZICF
“Toate avecca [t00. stenatuat oF Cancen senvice nepnovina]oate sianie
orevces
Ae be beare tu. Dene rd

Fuse OF im OFFICE OF se RSUNNE
aoa Dyce gl
e543
i V3 UG liaise
aa j ¥
iTeop Data >|

Peres

a6. O.P. APPROVAL DATE APPROVED

rT 1152 SECRET



Rr pecuey Director of Central Intelligence
~ Deputy Director (@lans)*

-Appolintment of lr. Wilkiam K, Harvey
-Chief of Station, Rome, Italy

1. This is to make'a matter of written record.the
appointment of Mr, Harvoy as Chief of Station, ‘Rome, Italy,
effective on ‘or aboiit 30 June 1963.. Mr. Harvey will replace
Mr. ‘Francis I. G. Colemai, who is scheduled to attend the

“mest ‘session of the National War College, Verbal approval
was given by you and by the Director.

2, A biographic data sheet, including information
regarding his Agency. experience and training, is attached.

Ver lnum
WILLIAM D. ©:
Chief
Western Europe Division
Attachient
Biographic Profile (Part I)
CONTER:
5 Jur 1963
hehe dare:
Deputy Director (Plans) Wate)
APPSOVED: i

——

ee a t's

_Derety, Director of Central noreuaeenee, Wate)

A



CONFIE

22 May 1963

Mr, William: K, Harvey ¢ .

fu, 0 tr) Dear Bin, ee

a Lwish to express my real appreciation for the time you’ © ~
have dévoted to Agent Panel affairs. “Your operational
experiérice and personal ‘knowledge of many ‘of the individual
staff agents and career agents have provided a sound basis
for your contributions to Panel decisions concerning their
promotions-and reassignments. I look forward to the time,
after your overseas assignment, when we may have the
pleasure of your service in‘a similar capacity.

Sincerely,

| Jie Dong
, W."Liya Geor

Chairnfan, CS Agent Panel



Sein

"Tear eacranco

2h Auguat 1962

“[0O. COCATHON OF GEFIETAL STATION

: Task Force Wo Washingtea, D.C.
. Office of the Chief eancan

CAT CER rae Teta [2 etees snice seq

D
* 18500 ~~
i

Spas ante sient ;
outs Armstrong ee Ky 2. aehe C Coe i Ah

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE Usk OF TE OFF? PERSONNEL,
ra ap KE sae ee

agente
to. te.

Rs s0rre, SEQCITY WO,

Fon ne ne owt Poa eo[ivote ae
ay re 3 1 ;

he oe __ |i :

3 ae ocr. aeraova Bare svenovee

Pangyh-





Danville Gezdtia,
» TadTona UnTv, UToomiagton - Publtcity Writer
Solt-cenployod,
Dopt_of Justice,

Indlaho = Reporter & Printor
(athtetics) (PT)

Kontucky = Attorney-at-Law
Pa = Spoclal Agont:&
Supervisor/

» VC/NYC/Pit tsburgh,

Indlang valy, Bloomington = LLO (with Distinction) Law,
: Philos, Journalism

nes = R,Migh;

W,P,S,U, later;

ONSORED TAAINING.

Intorprot ~ Oct

GOSane

Chict Stf -£
10

0
Aroa Ops O48

Base 0136501
return to Ha

elearieretcietetcteiened
ona

pepeterens
YeouN- Ooee

pfucn, sere lgntic

h
020/Ch, Sti- Géach,

aco/Ch,
9SO/Ch

Bans Stat f

Bue/tescer
JOLP/EL/Ger

DOP/REAGErSta/bO3/CO8

ooP/ch,
par sch

Task Fores Ww

bores NEARO!

i)
i boP/EuR/oev Comp
3)

+ PROFVLE REVIC@ED.

1209 (PART 1) ext vetsseus

Hoare Dl no



iS weRaNtiNa PERIOD (Fm Too fe
‘ L April 1964. - 31 March 1965
ns SECTION & ¢
: from wholly inadequate to slightly I
We Mach PSalaive remedial ection. The fature of he action could range
‘ signment of to

$+ Strong Performance 19 choroetorized by exceptional: profleleney:

0 Qutstanding Performance 11.49 exceptional In releiton to ents of the work end In comparison te
others doing similar work as $0 watran

which employ duty. Conside duty. All omployeos
ith supervisory "MUST be roted oi thelr ability jayeos superetend.
= SPECIE DUTY NO. T

1.4. hier of. Station, Rome
ae § or

sPaciPIe DUTY Noa
a)

2 y.; Handles Station relationship with Anbagsador and
1 the Base in oe
SPRITE BOTY ROT

Piece tieeraer peace cee aa hash :
moan - Supervises CA. Program.
. sPedipie DUTY No. «

reorientation of Station FI Program,

Engaged -in

‘aaring
cetten

ware
cerren

Ratina
Cerren

productivity, -eonduet on Job, «
Based on your knowledge
foment which most accurately reflects

SECRET aetaes
; ct



. i SECRET

tittet be

ratings given tn
or sweeten i

MAW,
tations FI program toward’
P enerry to si¢duiring the

"els Bahia efforts to -resrt
batty “Mrs Harvey hag-devoted consider:
E | ia been Well reported andthe responsibilities ‘for -chrry=_
aoa approsch have ‘beeh pitcisely delégated. | Itt" still
rationnlly but “the rcoricttation has been will organ=:
‘teed. As an carly “tndies ation of” the” trend this’ 13 taking, several succesful, wehiiiea!
-operations' have been established which are well on-target.

"M6 accomplish’ the objectives of the: CA respoiisibilities of the Rome. Station’
Mr. Harvey has acquired the mist competent officers with’ this highly specialized skill
-and has taunclily oupported thelr efforts’ to prosecute ‘this program vhich remains ex-
tensive.. He haa considerably improved the Station relationship with Babassy officers,
Ancluding the Ambassador, .by.dievoting greater effort to this necessary phase of the
Station Chief's role and the Ambassador, during a.recent trip to Washington, made
| special mention of the degree of cont taciiée he had: in-the Station's reporting and in

- thé extent: to which it ‘bns-kcpt him propevly ‘informed.

During the pefiod under revi vllnrvéy nequired’a Deputy Station Chief - for
whose arrival he had waited more than 6 months. He has delegated general munnyement
of the Station's activities to this otficer, who has applied himself diltyently to
this task and the results have been promising. Mr. Harvey has been receptive to hcad-
quarters guidance, io extrenely prompt and thorough in replying to his correspondence.

cont l
CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

gate Lafomiation

SECTION D-

lig VHIS AEboRT Wad NOT DEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOVES, GIVE EXPLANATION

C/WE. William D. of
‘DY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

coments OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

at VIEWING OFFICIAL Pees NAME AND LONATURE
ADDP Thomas H. Karanessines
SECRET



aa
‘ will fam K Harvey!
Fitaes }, Report for Period 1 April 196% - 3 March 1965,

“Section ¢ (eont'a)

Some administrative details, such as “the reports on the performance of
officers vhose eypluation he was feluctant to make, Mr. Harvey bas hed
a tendency to postpone despite repeated efforts to provoke him into
‘timely response.

| I hnve rated Mr. Harvey's $ overall performance outstanding in
recognition of his supérior supervisory ability, his unusual skill in
expressing his views and his deteruination to accomplish his basic
‘objectives regarilless of the obstacles vhich he encounters. ‘The Rome
Station.is complex, 1s engaged’ in some highly sensitive operations: which
mist be guided vith a strong hand and by an officer with a degree of
professionalism which Mr. Harvey is well able to supply asa résult of
his extensive operational experience.

CO



on Falted fi

[EMPLOVEE SERIAL NUMBER

061164

= i “Te ‘aint — eaeaoe eae : .
«William. . Sept 1916 GS-18 7
; OFF oivinl OF ASSIONNE

"| suenene STATION
_ Chief. or Station fe

A rating in this category requices
further training, to placing on
oto seperatlon, Describe Seton token 0 ‘ropeted in Section Ce

Holy satisfactory and le cheractortaed nelthor by defletency nor

produced'in 0 Proftelent monner,

Performance 14 40 excoptl of the werk ond in comporiton to she performance of
athers'delag aimilcr work ax to worront special raeognition.

aa SPECIFIC DUTIES,

List’ vp.to stx of the, jertant specific duties performed during the rating jor which baat descrlba:
-{rmonner in which forma EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY ‘duty. All employ.
[wlth supersisocy responaibilitton MUST be roted on thelt ability 10 supervise (indlea

SPaCIRIC DUTY NO. T

Chief of Station, Rome

Brace OUT Noe

Handles Station relationship with Ambassador and Embassy and the : ‘
Base in

WERE BOT HET

wATING i
. Carr en

Supervises CA Program. :

seecipie DUTY NO.

Engaged ia reorientation of Station FI Program.

jaPaciric oury NO. 6 > 7 ‘

sPaciPiC DUTT NO. ©

SECRET i oe


SECRET _

Ceneh bites tod

auggeitions mode
ape cumoetence it seauired 4 current peel

My. Pating of the Ferforasnce of thio officer rénsins the ore se -the
descriptize of his performance which io’ contained’ in Ae, fftnees report
for period eating “3i-March 1965."

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS:

SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

‘over | 7

~ BY SUPERVSOR “AS

TOPLAVER SAT OREN iv TH HE Pony WAT NOT BEEN OWN To ENPLOVEE, Give EXPLAWATION
Waurtavar

Mr. Harvey is currently at his overseas post.

JOP FICIAN TITRE OF SUPERVISOR TYPED On PRINTED NAME Ap Siqney! en ia
ate ee CS

1965 | Chief, WE Division Willian D. O'Ryan

27 Septer>:

3. ‘BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

EOUSIENTS OF REVIEWAE OFFICIAL
I concur in the evaluations given Mr. Harvey on duties No. 2, 3 and 4.
I believe duty No. 2 could have been rated "outstanding" rather than "strong, "
with justification, I also think, however, that duty No. 1, involving the overall
administration and management of the Station and its personnel, should more
appropriately be rated "proficient, " or perhaps "strong."

21 October 1965 Thomas 'H. Karamessines



Frez
.Oosthcek,. WH/Pers. Hr. C
Sondef, TkR Brarich,PID/cP,

: ar
4 HE

Gulered photograph removed thia.

efile to Mr. McCone via lr. Henry
thoek

Clonred, with Mr. Gene Ste’

‘of picture.
‘ Ve Graham, oP/Pon/caa

5E-2503 _HQS
. Ext. 777

date and forwarded with Biographic ©



: aes : ie SEgmet aa my

T wear Nowe

PE Saat aN RT ONE

CEPR! pskwe YOWELLIAR SS
2 RATGRT OF REAR OT ene
RATURENENT VOLUNTARY UNDE:

TEREST NGTAINT

Trac

REGULAR
FF Reon Rae ORS] CHE OF THIN OAT ATTROSTT

J eb, 8-043
Biss dee Seco] SSuT. 233
PMN OCA TAT >

WASRs, 2:0.

1D POSTON Swag TS ENCE BUONO

1
o=3. 07 9997 lo
PS Ty eR he ca trae
$ a3 ist | s705s

mans

SPACE BELOW FOR ELCIUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
3 Fema [3 3 SOF ORF

cm

eeeah

SS [a Connie
£Oo DATA

FSET TREES

Parana
oot

us

TNT Gina 1a
Gl eethce

a ba | cere

TN Tae

ig ai
FREVOTS CHAN TSA VEE

canons cy AST TET

waded om sutomere
Seong on



SaLazy SCHEDULES OF PL“ 90-2°8"
teen 1% THE Cla ACT OF 19499
OcToweR 1962,"

“EFFECTIVE vate OF Pay ADJUSTENTY @ SCTOSER 4967

7 : : Ovo xew
WAME c.- - “SEALAL” ORSN, FUNDS GaeSTEP SALARY SALARY

WARVEY WILLZAN 761164 44.997 CF GS 18 i $25+890 $274055



7 avec oF carconangT

REGULAR —

omar ot sence action

ON eon ( STATUS

i oo [rwe |* Toate Ta ATT
beat lene 136 1188"0n00 | SO"USC HAI J -
7 aia aT 1 oT

DoF /EUR \
[QeVCCOFMENT COMELEMENT WASH, OC.
Th rear THE : Ti reitie want 1 ean oineaion

ee OPS OFFICER - 9997 ee iJ

“We GASIFICATION SOMFOGLE (65, 1K me) WS, O€CurTsOwiL SERIES Ws eanae 9 Sit Ti Savkay oF HATE

gs 10136.01 13 5890

ry
OTHER
WASH., 0.C.

Oink TOR, PAA
+

yu997 | EUR
7 srtciar toe ett

enntat F

ions tour oat | oe

Var Pa
2 tere (ieee $d temas ee i

pes



\ .eecadad .
hy SECRET ‘ :
: “ © eatin’ Filed tad ads

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

TP aamt (0021 Fast wiBaN

HARVEY, WILLIAM. K

9, ONGAMITATIONA ag : 7

TY GaNeGoaY OF EMPLOrMtAT

Time oe

REGULAR

| a ni Geigenin 0 CH GTmER LEEAL AUTHORITY

136 1166 odd0 | 56 yse 403 J
ation 6 OFFI STAN
ps

ooP/EUR “
DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT WASH, y 9.C.

Tr, vosition Tie [ia Poni wate

: : FF ICE -|9997

i saan

V4, CLASSIFICATION SME ONE 144, CD, ete 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES Ty | ‘site

i 2 83 0136.01 fiat 2
ve ReMi — as
OTHER

ROME, ITALY

‘SPACE

io aint [wor

18 wis97 | cur 175013; feo: 13116 Sees

137
Pa TE CAPT jo ices (te ATIREWENT DATA ST 5 [ae Ca RECT HOH, CANCELLATION DATA | a iy [ar
seen Tre ee _ Cas :
woe, ERE Tee re Te [ro DATA 0.
| fh ce LL.

!
SEVERE | Hee ah tne | ae Goad with Gate ave ca TTT

: 1 bres tee
“at, PREVIOUS CiVTLIAM G2 cLPemeNT SERVICE ja uwrar a
|" Gat

ACTION 70, Gapioy | 21 OFRCE GOING
cone | ae

4 Sate Tae wate

Fons
546

Use Provious
"eaition

1180

fe ‘SECRET ff [ a | ‘i a rt
i : GG
we TSE.


aa)

i

"PAY ANGUSTHENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALAKY SCHEDULES CF PL 89-594
PumsSuaxT TO aAUTHOMITY OF PCT AS PROVIDED Ih. TRE Cla ect OF 1949,
AS avFNPED, AND AeDCU DIRECTIVE VATED & OCTOBER 1962,"

i EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENTS 3 JULY 1906 7

. CLD NEW
NAVE SERIAL’ ORGH, FUNDS GeSTER SALARY SALARY

HARVEY. WILLIAM K Os1164 50 63n" CF GS 1€ 1 $25,382 $25,890



t

SPAY ADJUSTMFAT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCMEIULES OF PL 890301
PURSLAKT TC AUTHORITY GF OCT AS PRovTteD IN THE CIA ACT OF 19495
AS AMENDED, AND A*DCE POLICY DPSECTIVE VATED & OCTOBER L962,"

FRFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT! 10 OCTCHER 1965

SVEY RILLTAM

SERTAL O8GN, FUNDS GReSTEP

061168

5a ¢3a

oF

GS 1a 1

od
SALARY

$24,50¢

NEw
SALARY

$25,382

2

oO



NOTIFICATION’ OF PERSONNEL ACTION

TSceiat wawsTR 77, paw (CAST FTART NORE)

061164 baavier WILLIAM K = = i
“Taavaet or peasaanee attiow, [5 CATEGORY OF EuPLoTMENT a

DESIGNATION AS PARTICIPANT IN GIA’ eet ear -
[| RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM _ REGULAR E
| Con otwEN ceoat AaTAOTTTY

: PL 88-643 i Hi
6136 1.267. 000 SECT. 203

© oeeaniaTion BEsGunTiOA Ta LocaTion OF OFFA STATION

DOPE. - - i
ROME STATION .! :

OFF IGE OF ‘THE CHIEF -ROME,” ITALY.

TE PoniTiON KURIEE Te HAVE BeTOATION

CHIEF OF STATION . 0262

1” ic aassineation eemeeen TE. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES [V6 GRADE AND STEP [ ‘SANT On ATE
rae

GS 25382
| | ROME, ITALY

EMPLOYEE WILL BE NOTIFIED BY DISPATCH. FROM THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL, oF”
THIS DESIGNATION ANO OF HIS RIGHT OF APPEAL TO THE DIRECTOR OF: CENTRAL

6136.05. Cert! tee

INTELLIGENCE.
E ‘SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL Hal
“WAIN Bal | FOOTE COE SATION [HY MIGHCE- Hc Hag [ HONE OF BIRTH [t OATE OF GUE [TF ene OP TT
oe: Lol rt coe cone oe ee. ve | =o on ve | we ee We
28 | io We 36533] 1 3- | 09 13116:05 1 17159! 05 17)
- [rome carns —_[ wecat [ia aerentatat ota | 30, Sevananigw | al, omntCrion/tantEcuation Dat [a secunry [30 ser
SAIL Eo SED al
: l isaea eeael ea | :
SE VEL PREFURTACE [Wo SERV Gout BaIE [ W Woao GAP Gave [30 GER feo [7G WEALTH SURANTE aaa Hea
[i near arena sence oa eae ar a ~__ FG Tar ae ‘Tare tat oat

Use Previews,
"addon



SECRET

(When Filled to)

7 wot
WA

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

{AST RST ANNE :
VEY WILLTAM K

at OF at ACTOR

stores CODE AOsUSTHENT

Tar Ba

“aaa a ar

PvE Sto

M

Te RW OR TE OTT

TE Poa TE

Tay Can CE DEST

ioe
Bae F STATION D208 Hy

Ti CASSTCATION SEMUDOLE (GS TB an) 15 OCCUPATIONNT SRT Te GRAS HD HT Ty a oe aT

ce 5005 t |

ar |

i SIGNATURE O® OTPER 7 UHENTICATION

om 18 Use Previous ic
MS wove taiven

es

es



SECRET
aa (When Filled ta)

RZR: 28 JUNE 63 ae ae 7 = |
NOTIFICATION OF PEHSONNEL ACTION : : @
] Pe : aa
O66. HARVEY WILLIAM. K fe
3 WATERE OF PERSONNEL ACTION - mr iW GATE S CaTEGORY OF EurioTaTT™ : ry
eee i pe 3063 REGULAR ( :
7 ona Bary | rah CR a >
rovos > eae : : : _ a
a ° tov [x | awa (3136..6300 1014 | 5a USC 4O3 VQ. :
7ST ATR ae Tachi 6 oR TN :
O0P/wE i i i
ROME -STAT ION : ; i
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ROME,. ITALY : /
i T pain ante Ta acer RTE : |
; : f
: CHIEF, OF STATION ' '
Ve CLASSIFICATION ia en TS OCCUPATIONAL SERIES. zy H
0136.01 }

WASH., D.C.

‘SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE

¥ i SATION 2h, NiEGREE

a a a] | at <n | |
|37_| 10, | 62630 We 36533] 1 b 9 43 1 t6 jl !
FLARE 0 RELL COC CC CC CE :

So eee | RERLRENCE 5 Cat WATE ae ie oe [Baoan Ha x0,
3c ~
{ite ie [Biss dia ize)
eter oar ba] We vaae Cour ware [8 Gate Ga EZ Tata aoe eco
eel ales i
7 aT

wiacot a
cont raewis

SIGHATURE OR OTHEN AUTHENTICATION —

““FOSTED



i IN aceCSoance ay TH THE PRO PSpONS Oc LIC La A? = 703 AND
' oct oR M OATED © V AUGUST 195K 4 Sacaty 1S apguSTed aS FOLLOWS,
ERRECTIVE 16 OCTOSeR joKZ 7 : i“

“ a Oo yo NEW
SEQAL ORGN FUNDS GST SALARY SRST SaLaRY

HARVEY WILLTAR K 261146 AITOO CF 1s 1 $1500 VR 1 320000

: i



sade . ‘SECRET. w
PSC: _12 SEPT 62 : (When Filed ta)
NOTIFICATION OF. “PERSONNEL ACTION tad
PA Seek ume ae (Castres wept” z z :
: taal
iP Oatte¥: | HARVEY WILLIAM °K . : : :
owned or inci me TERCERA
| REASSIGNMENT,’ (CORRECT (ON). REGULAR
7 Tree 7 Cor aR 0 CWE OF OTACE LKGAL METRORTTE
rs =. Fa alice ath nesits -
| i wor [x [wwe 31:32' 1900''1000| 50 ‘USC 4O3°J a
] Woraationt Tea T-18rkocatiOn OF OFPICrAL BTAt 7 :
sat ae a
DOP TASK FORCE W ] . ~
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF : WASH., 0.C.
Tr Ree HE 7 RTOS Aa i GER aE BTTERATION
Ces orrrceR ca! i ‘lose2 ° o
To masa To Ty orion Sai Da AP Tao
iene : ~
esis [0136.01 [ie 18500
err
THiS, S ACTION CORRECTS FORM 1150 EFFECTIVE. DATE 06/08/62 TO SHOW THE no
TITLE, CLASSIFICATION, GRADE, STEP, & SALARY WHICH WERE
PREVIOUSLY OMITTED, :
69
os
[PR ea CERCA
owe mae ia
$2} 10 | 1 joo s 13) 16 :
Pa nietinns | orca nT eA
SHRI ceive re i[eop para ee
I : 37_ 108 )'08) 62!
BU vaTentn | BEA Cow BATE [Wome Woah ave [ a anTTNCataaRT paver tA RE
a a ard Coa 2 ana eT a
fe ! 1 [reese |
ato evant “teat Gr Teta ae cs ime
sa ra co aaa @
8
J

con

o


TT)

: YOWELLIAM K
That & FRSC TTICN : :

omnes

ees arerere ot

i Gankta Srevice otnORATION

2]

TE CASS RATION KREOULE (6H, UH, we] 6 OccoPaTiGnat SeRLES ym GABE AN TEP

1 ataaY OF Oat

: | aie
os 36.04 4 : '
We a Ee ae
‘SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE ASE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
WAT fpr [OnE Cate TE Shiion |, MTESEEE "TH Rein |S GATE CH TREAT BATE OF OOO] W Bale OF TT
eee | Cole a ee CY a Cs TT
2 ra [eit L I em tty | {ists 1
Tet anes_yh weant [i epanavis ae COntccreaycanCTaTOw ATA! Cs a
reveetn [ee EZ) wo,
=e EFEREME ors EOD DATA inftaes
toa ae [ete ects | set)
BE WET PaereUtee_| 96 Slav. uP OATE [37 UOue COP DATE | Oe GaRETR Catadet__/ 1) FECL] RENIN INSDIANE SOCAL CURT wo
aA pee] we ara be GaaT TB eink aT TOE
|_t ry |
Rees Greet see eave oT a Tare hare
1 cone ae [om Tesre [epi arave col
| | | cor

ESE 5/9//ce ge

POSTED
— thls tad)

(Whea Filled tnd

ia

ne


MN ACCOPRANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF Ps Le 86-568 AND DCI MEMO DATED
1 AUGUST 1956» SALAGY IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS EFFECTIVE 10 JULY 1960.

so NAME

SERTAL ORGN GR=ST OLD SALARY NEW SALARY

pt HARVEY WILLIAM K 561164 94109 GS-18 1 $174500 $185500

yst EMMETT OD. ECHOLS

DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL



a ‘ SECRET

Ovi Led IY

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

i Fiet- Middle)

ont we K

P14. Organizesral Denghation Srotion Code

Sods
DOP FY STAFF
DIVISION 0 7 A
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF D.C. 75013
i 7 Position Wile ~~ NT Variion No, 7” Wo Son] 90. Occup, Soret
Fae
toed OPS OFFICER CHI ogy 168 0436.01

Poca tele ‘Salary Or Rate /23. SD TS. Aoprapration Nunbor

(to. ds

[1311-18500 ie aA Lx |o1294003. 1000

(87. Noture OF Action (Codo] 30. Soparaian Data

CONVERSION TO PERYA
SUPERGRADE_RANK

‘PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

31. Orgarizozonal Daxgnavons Code | 32. Location OF Olhoal Stauon 4 “Sravion Code

OOP FI STAFF
DIVISION D
OFFICE OF THE cHIEE Bog wash. ,ASc, | 75013

4. Position Tal iwon No. al 37 Cecip. Senor
__Tes | 0136.01_|

eon 3 iia =| OPS OFFICER CHI

3 lari Oe Kata” ]40. ~~ ~ | 437 Reprepraiion Nunbor
1 18500 ie 1003 1000

44, Remarks

# THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCENG PPROVED. YOUR PERMANENT
+ GRADE AS GS-18, a

Tkway 1500

SECRET : : a



romeo emer coun Yep etnies ten neta pngeeme a TN eee np OT

eaten abt tt mint tek NS waits cathe Lael


SECRET

(then “Fitted tn) ;

HARVEY © | Willian

gs-18 | _D

t ‘Orewa [isex Je onnoe [aD
3°Sept 1916 | HM -

‘SLOP iciAL POSITION THLE
shief of Station

Biv am OF ASTIONMENT|®, CURRENT STATION

Probation to reo

excellence.

* Ferformance meets 8 all requirement

 astending Performance is 39 exceptioncl In rel
others doing similar work a to worrant spectal recognition.

tonal proflétency.
lon to requirements oF the watk and In comparison to the porfotmenc

etory: A rat

in thls category requires
naeling to further walning, 9 plocing on

SPECIFIC DUTIES

with supervisory reaponsibilit

of the most iniportont szacitic duties performed durlnig the

Jmanner in which employee performs EACH specific dut
‘HUST be rated on thoir obility to supervi

1 which best de scribs
hat duty. All employe

upareloed.

SECC OOTY NOT

Chief of Station, Rome

SPECIFIE DUTY NOE

Base in

Handles Sta n relationship with Ambassador and Bzbassy and the

SPECIFIC BUTT NOS

Supervises CA Prograz.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. «

Engaged in reorientation of Station FI Program,

SPECIFIC DUTY NOS

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

waTINS
ferree

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN. CURRENT POSITION.

‘Toke inte occount everything about the emplo}
formance of spacilic duties, producti
particular, ie 8 of

place the letter i

ERE" 45. onsolere onevious eorrons,

¥, conduct on
1. Based on your knowles
ing bex corresponding to the st:

job,

cooperati

SECRET

44; pertinent personal tra

Ita, and

ge of employee's overall performance. during. the rating period,
mont which most accurately reflects his | Md

of performance.

Rating
CerreR

°



SECRET

z 7 a f98es Pet teit, Im) ‘

. : SECTION C "__NARRATIVE COMMENTS
e icon siyengtha or wecknosaas demchsrated in cuivent position keepin acti

tnd Migogt strength: Sed #t position Keeping Tren: siti

ing. Comment

foveralt Nona. made’ for inpecveent ‘of work performance.
IB tevprovide best.

oh Foreign language competenc ined tar cartet peationy Ampltyrar explein ratings given tm Soe
ay defevnining fete gervsnel setion,, Monnet ct geismence of sienogerel or teperisery dy

be
/applicobt

My ratiag of the ‘performance of tiis officer venains thé dene asthe |
"description of his perfomansé. witch 13 contained in his fitness report,
for period ending 31 March 1965+

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

TCERTIFY THAT | HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

slowATURG OF EWALOVEE
WE, Peet) SG.
= BY SUPERVISOR
TAH ENPLOTER HAS SEEN iv THIS WEWOAY WAT NOF BEEN SHOWN YS EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
UNDER Mr SUPERVISION

x Mr. Harvey is currently at his overseas post.

TE SFFIgIAT HITE OF SUPERVISOR TYPED OA PRINTED WANE ANG GATORS
S PLE IE CI

27 Septenber 1965 | Chief, WS Division Willisn D. O'Ryan

3. GY REVIEWING OFFICIAL,

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
T concur. in the evaluations given Mr. Harvey on'duties No. 2, 3 and 4.”
I believe duty No. 2 could have been rated “outstanding” rather than "strong, "
with justification. 'I also think, however, that dity’No. 1, involving the overall
administration and management of the Station and its personnel, should more
appropriately be rated "proficient, " or perhaps "strong."

OFFICIAL VITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL | TVPEO OR Tp AND SIGNATURE

21 October 1965 ADDP = H. Kar sines:
SECRET



‘SECRET,

(then Filled 14)

(Firat) (Mi RMTa)
a ‘

“ta tvey

[er riciae Position rev

fevmnve Temporary

mOvisiowad (ee ineinacilone «fection ©)

‘sPaciaL Gpecttyit
TrOAte REPORT OVE mH OP : , if aeronri

1 __1 April 1964 - 31 March 1965
7 PERFORMANCE! EVALUATION

SECTION 8 ae

lactoiy. A Fong tw tla saingory toauives
oe ling, to Fort
ctlon taken er ‘Proposed In Section e

12nce 1s more than sottatactory: Desired rasults ora being produced In o proficient mannet.
ad-by eiceptiorol praflelency. .

P+ Proficient”
$+ Strong

[List up to six of the mosf Important specific du ing the ‘ating period. Insert rating letior which best describes the
“hich employes performs: EAH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness In performance of that duty. All employees
‘vith supervtvory responsibilities MUST be roted on thelr ability to supervise final 2 miperriaed.

-[sPeewie GOTT NO.

Chief of Station, Rome : fs betel

Te OOTY NOE

: Handles-Station relationship with Ambassador and Embassy and. .

“the Base in atte . s
: PECIFIC BUTY NOW i : Wayino
ee : . tertin

a)

Supervises Ca Program. 7 : ae

sPeciric OUTY NOs OF
Bngagea in reorientation or » Station FI Progran. meee: oo 0

jsPeciic DUTY NO. ® : z 7
. . Saeel : ferver

7__OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

ything shout tha'employee which Influences his effectiveness In his éwront position auch os pet

‘productivitys conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personel, traite ot hebita, ond
dge.of employee's overall. performance, during the rating period

tement which most accurately reflects his level of pottormance. |

waTiNG
cerrer

Toke Into account ever
formance of specific. dutle:
patticuler limitations of talents, Based on your knowl
place the latter iy the rating box corresponding to the

15 JUN 196: :
E29" 45 oosdllere enevioys sosrions, SECRET | © . P



SECRET

Mr. Hlaivey has, Continued to-masiage™ thie Agéns
“extiusiacm sind drive which charicterizcd, the -d serine 2
| Station: ramed fole fi ‘his. bast Fitness. Report:

chavly delegate
early té asseod the results:operationally but the reorientation bos beea'véll orgin-'
As an vaily indication of the trend this -Is taking, several successful technica!
operations have beda established which ary wcll'on target. : a
7 To-accomplish the abjectives of the CA responsibilities of the Rone Station
Me. Harvey baa’ acquired’ the most competent officers with this highly speclalized skill
“9 thelr, efforts to prosecute this progran which reaains ex-
tensive. He has coasiderably Improved the Station relationship with Ertassy officers,
| including thie Ambassrdor, by.devoting greater effort to this necessary’ phnse,of thé
Station-Chief's role and the Aubassador,-during a, recent trip to Washington,
special mention of the degree of onfidence’he. had in’ the Station's reportii
the extéat to which tt has kept him properly-iaformed.

During the period under review Mr, Harvey’ néquired a Deputy Station Chief - for
whose arrival be had waited more than 6 montlis. He has delegated general management,
of the. Station's aétivitics to this officer, who'has applied himself diligently to
this task and the resulits have been promising. Mr. Harvey bau been receptive to head=
quarters. guidance, is extrenely prope and thorough in replying to his correspondence.

cont'd
SECTION D- CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
os ‘BY EMPLOYEE
TCERTIFY THAT 1 HAVE SEEN st
ore inmua OF ENPLOvER

18, AND C OF THIS REPORT.

2

OORTSS EMPLOYER RAS OEEN
My SUPERY

eh

este larriciat ViTLE OF SUPERVISOR

& June_1965 o/vE
ry ‘BY REVIEWING OF FICIAL.

ESENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL eeaerecaeeaeca

BU fy PRAYED Hawt ano RGNA TORE
te aes:
3 Bar 3

Z SECRET i



i

Some tidministrative details, such as the reporti on ‘the performance of
officers whose’ evaluation he was reluctant to make, Nr. Harvey has had‘
a tendency to Postpone’ despite repeiited efforts to Laie him fato

timely. response. a
I havé rated Mr. Harvey's overall performance outstanding 1a”

cecognition of his siperlor supervisory ability} h13 unusuel ‘sk111.in
expressing his views and his determinntion to a¢compligh his basic“

objectives regirdless: of. the obstacles witch he encounters, .Thé. Rome

Station 1s complex, is engsged in sone highly sensitive operations which
must’ be guided with a. strong hand ond by’an offlecr with a degree of -
profesaionalish which Mr. Harvey 19 well able to supply as'a resalt of
his extensive operational experience.



‘foctery. A voting In thts category requires
jon could range kom counseling, to further training, to placing on
Poration. "De scribe action token or propsied in Section C.

excellence.
Be
Performance

ding Peslormance is x0 exceptl
Sithers doing’ similar werk os 19

yont-apecial. recognition,

SPECIFIC DUTIES.

Handles Station relationship vith Ambassador and Extsssy end
Station Bases.

fapecinne OOTY ROD
Supervises correspondence with headquarters oa entire complex

Station program.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

Supervises: CA Program.

aRecine OOTY no. : : oo

Engoged in reorientation of Station FI progre=.

SPECurIE DUTY NO ©

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSTION

Raving
as

in hie current po:
neta, pectinent poreseal
"2 overall performance di

of specific

ing period,
of performonce.

°



Ly
e gainéa Torii.
Ken':to reor ite"

-"T0! aeeeaglish this it hasbeen‘ necessary for Mr.”

‘Jeastes of an extrézely complex locsl politieal situation. * This he-has eet about to do |

with confidence. His szcumulated experience, in earlier sasignuents has equipped _

Mr. Harvey with e sélf-assurance and confidence which I-have -rarely-séen equalled in

lany other officer. Tie continuance of ideal relationships with the key’ Embassy of~

ficials’ in Rome-has ten somevtiat -handicapzed by the sudden death of the principal

officer in the Embassy who ‘was knowledgeable of our programand the imponaibility ‘of:

bringing -into knowledge. of our activity. the next lower level echelon of Embassy of-

fiéialg for reasons beyond Mr. Harvey's control. This handicap haa been overcome

lover the pest year ord Mr. ‘Harvey is currently supervising ‘cxtremely sensitive polt-

tical operations ard sontects to the satisfaction of the’ Anbassador and his headquarterd
; He delegates resporsibilities. skillfully ‘to those officers under his command who
fare beat qualified ant ty his own outstanding, performance, which is always at its

best under heavy otras, he earns an intense loyalty from these personnel. -He demon-

strates evst-conscious.egs and outstanding dupervisory ability.

TCERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS.

GIVE EXPLANATION

12

Report will be shown to employee upon re return from overgeas.

ee, a
Unbew My suremsiion |
cy

‘OATE JOFPICIAL Vi¥LE OF SUPERVICOR

28 July 1964 L_ofwe

BY REVIEWING a

[COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFiZiAL

WANE AND SigNAT

Richard Helms



| MBORANDIEL. FOR! Director'of Personnel”
SUSJECTs :

# under r lon,
oa up within the Clandestine Sétvices. a coterie of ‘officers who
have come to regard themselves as Marvey ment

vibe

cee i veesicl |). WB apet’ 1963

Report = Mr, William Ky Harvey

; His quilties of, Teaderstdp
d devotion‘ of those colleagues who
-If anything, thore'has tended to

‘a development which
Mr, Harvey. hinself has’ not e@icouraged but which denénstratee. the, ~
strong emphasis ¢ ‘on’-first<<: radecraft which he has insisted upon ©
an éach assignment. — .

3. As Chief, Teak Force W, Mr, Harvey had the task of organizing
and developing a large operational team devoted to tho acquisition of
intelligence and the handling of special operations directed at Cuba.
Ee was obliged to work within a complicated bureaucratic framework, a
fact which mide the clearing of actions a laborious’ and time-consuming
exercise. Under hie direction, the Task Force grew substantially in
size and in professional competence with thé: result that when the
Cuban crisis arrived in October intelligence assets were in place to
rake a ‘significant, contribution to’ the overall intelligence picture.
xr. Harvey devoted considerable ingenuity, long hours of personal
tie, and great mergy to this entorprise, and, although certain
aspects of the intra-goverrmental coordination of the operations had
rough sledding, his net achievement was.the establistment of an ef- |
fective, going concern with monentum which carries on to the present.

b. Mr. Harvey, after a strong performance as Chief, TFW,. has
doen assigned as Chief of Station, Rone, and is now preparing himself
to take over at that post in the coming months. é

Thomas H. Karamessines
Assistant Deputy Director (Plans)

Reviewing Official? + :
iy sorerew ve rere sree Riad 2 1/3, We, g

Richard Helms
Derety Diréctor \Plans) .



gs crm

‘MEMORANDUM: FOR: : Director of Personnel --

SUBJECT: : ’” William K. Harvey :- Memorandum in lieu of
fitness’ report for period 30 March 1960 -
10 May 1962

2, ‘It is difficult ‘to prepare a fitness report on this

outstanding. officer,’ largely because forms do not lend them- --

selves to measuring his many unique characteristics. His d

strengths are in professional knowledge'and competence in

the opérational field, in a toughness of, mind and firmness

. of, attitude, while: the latter in past years have moved him
“into pe ositions that were sometimes stronger ‘than superior
offic with a responsibility for adjustments necessary

’ in'matters- of. policy in rélation to Agency position in the
comminity, were able to handle easily, his own closéness to
Policy ‘positions of .thé Agency within the U.S. community in

“the last two years has found“hin' with a real ability to

\ handle ‘policy, matters and to adjust to necessities, without
‘losiig his firmness, and ‘his. independence of thought.

2. He 1 sometimes ‘accounted to be less than outgiving
of infofmation about operational matters in which he is engaged,
yet it should be remembered that this characteristic has been
part and parcel: of a sound operational attitude im his career.
He has a wide knowledge of personalities within the officer
corps of the DD/P'and-is for the most part a good selector of
officers to accomplish necessary tasks. He handles people
well. He has a tremendous energy and is a loyal officer both
to his superiors: and to the purposes of the Clandestine Services

of CIA.
3. He is one of the few distinctly outstanding officers

in the D/P. i
dl, flég

dee ¥. or
tie at Chief ‘51
_ Foreign Intelligence



8 September 1960

MEMORANDUM “IN °LIRU'OF FITNESS REPORT "

: The following‘statemént relates to the performance of.
_ William K. Harvey, GS 18, Chief of FI,, Division D.

This officer has-held-a series of responsible positions -
in.DOYP afd its predecessor clandestine intelligenée organiza-
tion for well over ten years. He excels in the field of _
Clandestine operatiozs in general and.especially so in that
Phase of clandestine staff. and operational activities concerned
with the procurement, handling .and exploitation of highly
"sensitive and critical intelligence and operational materials,

: His performance generally .over ‘the ‘recént years has
proved him ‘to be one of the outstanding officers of the DD/P
organizition. He fas demonstrated clearly superior performance
both in staff respotisibility at Headquarters and as Chief of
Base in.a'very important. field.station where he was directly
“engaged in supervising and carrying on operations successfully
against targets of the highest priority.

In thé period under review, June. 1959 to. March 1960, he
took over and directed functioning of one of DD/Ps most
sensitive components charged with achievement by special
means against targets of the highest importance. This included
carrying on-negotiations and liaison with other components
of CIA and-other Agencies and Departments of the U. S. Government
‘concerned With his special field. His performance of this
responsibility in many respects has been outstanding. He has
continued to demonstrate his fitness to handle a wide range of
positions of major responsibility within the clandestine service.

Among his outstanding characteristics.are: thorough
understanding of his profession and ability to make this clear
to persons of high level whose knowledge of the Clandestine
Services is general. He is fiim, tenacious, and on occasions
strongly aggressive in pursuit of his point of view. While this

s may sometimes make for. difficulty on the part of those in
higher echelons who vish to dispose of a complicated problem
easily and quickly, this, officer's persistence in carefully



-_présenting’nts* ‘argumedits’ an in holding to: thei untia: their
fact and logic. prevail or until policy factors override, makes

> him a highly. valuable. asset to CIAY , : ae

: ae : “Rater

Reviewer aad
.. “Richard Helms
COPS

-2-

gest



‘NENORANDUM FOR? Director: of Personnel cece

AUTENTION: Chief, Records and Services:Diviston
FROM: .” Chief of Station, Germany Q
SUBJECT Fitness Report - willtam K, Harvey

November 1957 - January 1959 : 5 ‘

_ 1, Subject's abilities and perfcrmance’are too generally known
to require detailed ‘comment. One of the very“senior‘officers in.
KUDOVS ‘he has ‘been chief of what 1s probably the’ largest and most.
productive overseas Base of KUBARK for approximately’ séven years. |
During this ‘period Subject has been. personally: responsible for a
number of operational successes, ‘some of. which have, béen of national
importance.’ Possessed of driving onerzy, determination and initta-
tive, he has fex equals in professional experience ami competence.
Throughout his administration of the Base he has established and
maintained. exceedingly high standards of accoiplisiment, discipline
and enmeavor. “Subject's Judgehent, on occasion, is impulsive and
(proposals: of the Base ‘havé been, from tine to time, advanced -and
defended with greater-vehemence and more. exhaustively than the

| oteasion, objectively speaking, required. Subject's basic self-

discipline, good sense and loyalty, however, have prevented any such
incidents; whfch are in large measure ‘manifestations of the highly
charged atmosphere and insistent operational pressures of Berlin,
from developing into serious friction with the German Station or
dashington headquarters.

2. It.has been a pleasure to serve with this officer and,
‘during ais assignment,he has consistently rendered dedicated and
effective service of the very highest order,

oe Ae on
John A. Bross

CONCUR:



% :
Director ot’ versonnel

ATTENTION: Chief’, Records and Services Division
FROM: Chief of Station,. Germany
SUBJECT: Fitness ieport - wtlllan Ks, Harvey

January 1959 - Jute 1959

I have nothing to add to the memoranium dated 14 January 1959.

Subject continues’ to render an outstanding performance.

YoGu. Cam

eau Jona A. Lboss

I certify that I have seen
this Fitness Report

CONCUR:

rn Euyopean Division

SCRE. :


a Bahai ate, Lia ak apache hae tte sae tinea att theme



SECRET .

2 (When Filled Ho),

Waut OF GWELOVEE (Laat-Firat-middle) [Ave “no Brearransnir or ocecnounts

Son-James

There is on file in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

Services Division, ‘Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim

File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an illness,
i

injury, or death incurred on _7 March 1947.

This notice. should be filed in the employee’s Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

SIGNATURE SF 989 REPRESENTATIVE

icant

“SECRET



Firat-middte) ‘Suaiw mumBER

MAME OF EMPLOYEE ( WAM ANG \EELATIOMZWI OF OCPUNDLNTS”

Hawey, William Self

There is on file in the Benefite and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

Services ‘Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim

File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an illness,

injury, or death incurred on __39_4, 46 ate

This notice should be filed in the employee’s Official Personnel Folder

asa permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

‘STONATWRE OF O50 REPRESENTATIVE”

‘DATE OF NOTICE

3 January 1968

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE

SECRET ta ata)

TONS, 1076 vse rneveous



WAME OF EwPLCvEE (neat -Pivel-widese)”

‘There is on-file in the Benefits. and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

“ye Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim

File on the above named employee (or his dependent®*) for an illness,

injury, or death Incurred on Saget 962+

This notice should be filed in the employee’s Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Offictal Disability Claim File.

BATE OF NOTICE Tiewatuat OF 80D eiBeeSERROTIVE
a

Ae

punters NOTICE‘OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE.

torn SECRET | rere

{O° 1076 ose veeesous coarton,



26 Wee Arvin ‘Street
Chevy Chase,

© APPROVAL re:

Te ‘Signa

Home:

Toner

Wise

fer

15. CERTFIES

TGR PAYMENT: Pursuit Wo mabey voted nme, beers Tee
eoucher 1s comet and proper for payment:

Bare.

Cihcorrs Signore

Te. METHOD OF PAY!

T (Fer Paying Ditue Use Only)

‘Az Cosh or Doz. Check Ante

B. Excncage Ret + U+S. $ Equivalent

1D. Date

Ez Wreasury oF Depositary Cheek Ns, end No

ot Deponitery

D. Orgerszancon] E. Fen:
(Store Oaty) «| (St0re Daly)

USIAr Activity Sub-Activity

7 Poymant Recerved

or PRALDILE! 7



‘judas

shipstaten ct etchaage, ed

Fort

oe ws

Nee ten aha

|ARDED

Aur. uskvey: W

_

Mar. 22

“0700

jes. and Daughtér

LY. Rome via private’ auto

AR,

1130

163 miles at 12¢

Autostrada tolls L.1750

[Required tees for auto (Ford)

at dock
im Preparation of car __L.1500
Auto check-in fee L 1000 He
ani Eee 1.2500
: Bagzase transport Rome ‘
=: to is 1.3500 [ 5 60.
Baggage transfer charges i q
- for hold baggage 1.9350 is.es}
“| 3300 | 1v 3/4|_6
|
kar 22
thru3o At sea! 9
Mar.32 At sea 1 3.00 f



a FORM FS.285 5 MIMINSIDE MAY BE USED AS A SUPPLEMENTAL SHEET)

hail eecepted

Winersry and Deserignon, 3 | Perdew
: man

baggaye from New York to

Washington

Travel of son! James

LV. Munich via AF



©) BoRm Fs.205

“Darts”

Doys | Rare
sD) e
SFORBARDED

AR. WaShington Nat'l Airport _

Air travel from Munich is.

Joss expensive than $302.90

economy air FARE from Rome

to Washington

Airport tax in Munich’ DMS00

1,25!

di she: 2 from M

via air

Munich via Lit 161

Frankfurt

Frankfurt via PA 107

AR. Washington

Per diem 4 @ 16.00 less 35%

Shipment of air freight from

a

ch _ to Washington (85lbs.)

* @19.COLUMN TOTALS (Sum of which foraarded 10 item 124. 00 [aceol voucher)

eferi Ome aye travel for

Ar. Harve James and Sally

196.45} 2


‘Mnnaroty and Description ©
«

Per Die
ey

Fey

cost by rail with scheduling

as follows:

LV. Washington via rail

LAR, Indianapolis

Iv. Indianapolis via rail

Per dicm 2 x $16.00 x 2.5 $80.0]

Ast cluss rail Family



- cae F 5 Le roma! 18 THEN ATTAEHED® 10, FoR "362, MASTER GUALITICAS
“Yona .coo'né aeccRos

fu" yanauace cata cone ©

a an x z :
i beneak wae fpr 4 [3 13 }3 .
3 : : WHEN rome Mille othoTes no LANGUAGE

COMPETENCE, “ENTER THE FOLLOWING IN
ves Ur "NOELANGUAGE" (12-0101 78)

. geterrens

riancuact bata arven Veer Toate or vest DATA FOR 11e4 2 THRU] 18

on EXTRACTED FROM For 1273,

: LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY AKO
AWAROS_OATAs : :

QUALIFICATIONS RECORD CHANGE
UnisR UNDER “TYPE” =.
‘A = ADOITION To RECORD |
© = cHaNs¢ To exisTina RecoRD

= DELETION OF DATA FROM EXISTING RECORD |

Br 1962 SECRET


ace ee a : o

Ucar. Fai arch aah ceased cathe Pele 132

PART (~GENERAL” +: H a : fisetets he fae

Ge

"ART LIMLANGUAGE ELEMENTS

SECTION A, : Reading (40)

VGAN BEAD FERTS OF ANY DIFFICULTY. “OF A GEMEWAL NATURE OR tm Flau2S ¢ AW/FAMICEAR WITH, USING THE DICTIONARY
ONLY, RARELY. : o

Tein Hean Weare’ or wost ananie o” OIFFicuLty, OF & GLaKRAL NATURE GT IW FIELDS | aw FOUILIAR BITey STNG JE

(2) oietiowany occasionacer.

ala. tes), USING THE DICTIONARY

4 GaN READ TEXTS OF AVERAGE’ DIFFICULTY (newspapers, #6 fore
eacquentey.

s

Writing (41)

SUSE MLTHOUT USING THE DICTIONARY
Ler. me VERY 60H GRAMATICAL €

1 CAN WRITE PERSONAL LETTERS AND SIMILAR UATERIAL WITH: COMPLETE,
Ye WRITE FACTUAL MAMRATIVE AND EXPOSITORY MATERIAL HLTH REASONABLE CE
NATIVE STYLE, USING THE DICTIONARY ONLY RARELY.

SUCCESS. USING THE OLETIONARY ONLY

1 GAN WRITE PERSONAL LETYERS AND SIMILAR SIMPLE WATCKLAL WITH COMPLE
LET CUARITY, WITH FE GRAMMATICAL

AARELY, L CAM WRITE FACTUAL NARRATIVE AND CHPOSUTORY MATERIAL Sih. SEASON:
CARORS, GUT IN A STYLE WITCH NAY NOT DE NATIVE, USING THE DICTISNAGy OCCASIONALLY.
CCEA IM CONVEYING MY MEANING.
AND STYLE, USING THE DIZTIONARY

1 CAN WRITE PERSONAL LETTERS ‘AND SIMILAR SIUPLE MATERIAL, WIT BrarsNant
BUT WITH OCCASIONAL MINOR GRAMWATICAL ERBORS AND IN OBVIOUSLY FOME ISN,

OCEASIONALLY.

of
site gensonas ccrrees mo guavian suumec wareaust, vimy atesmnane svece Sym
Tali" Chanonrtea ‘Caasas. avlin A‘vene PoREtOns dwusoas Siteds esice; meebHe

aN THE Lancuace,,

JEvING MY YEANING,
ORARY FREQUENTLY,

1 CANNOT

Pronunciation (42)

Tome 69. GUYS

Fees?

SECRET team |



Puente, AND -ACEUMATELY 18 ALL PAACTICAL and ‘SECLAL SttUMt runs! 1 ConVERSE FREELY -ANO 1VMoWATECMLEY
AOS atin wesc ta, area SHieaiaaahe : a

BP Sree HUE TCR an a
UTM wee LA AMET LUAR CAND tuep oy sUME POPULAR: 34¥

aes Uw MALS ALL PRALTICAL AND SOCIAL SETA OWS, 1 CA CsvEMit tm MOST FIELOS
Sc CAT waRY quotations, ano cseule Paul ie
DAILY CIFE anv tadvee ANS Can Condver movTIMt business Im RabTicuLaR FitkLs:

(2 ir Alone. aiynd okie wh surat 3

4s 4 MANAGE FO°GET. ALONG INTHE MOST COMMON SETUATIONS OF OILY LIFE ANG TRAVEL,

fUNDLASTAND NON- TLEHNICAL CONVEMEATION ON ALL, SUBJECTS, OTH FACES TOrFACE AND ON TaE TELEPHONE) 1 UNDFASTAnT
NEARLY EVERYIMING I HEAR ON THE ADEG AND AT THE MOVIES, PLAYS, ANG LECTURES, :

UNDEHSTAND MOST OF WAT I MEAW CY JHE RADIO AND AT THE MOVIES, PLAYS, AMD LECTURES, INCLUDING MOST JOHES

Pons. :

bUNDEHSEAND MEAMLY ALL CONVERSATION OW T0PHC4 OF DAILY LIFE AND TRAVEL. OTM FACé=T5-FACE AMO OW INE TELE
Sone 't ooensrang oen oF auat | TAR ON THE HADIOL AND AF fe MOVIES. PuxvA, ane CEeTUBER,

OTH FACE *TO*FACE AND ON THE TELEPHONES 1 LHLENSTAND SOME OF Anat

+ unotesrau tHe simpcesr convemcarion,
1 Mtam ON Tur WAOIO. AND AT Mur MOVIES, PLAYS, AND LECTURES.

GEFORE CONTINUING - CHECK PART 11 TO ENSURE TWAT YOU HAVE CIRCLED ONE NUMBER PER SECTION.
: PART II{-EXPERIENCE AS TRANSLATOR OR INTERPRETER (35)

4 su WOT ABLE To UNDERSTAND Int srortw LancuAce.

U WAVE MAD EXPERIENCE AS A TRANSLATOR,

VE HAD CKPERIENCE AS AM UNTEFPRETCR,

901M OF THE ABOVE SrarcuENTS

NONE OF THE AGOVE STATEMENTS APPLY.

IV-CERTIFICATION

{CERTIFY THAT THE INFORMATION GIYEM ABOVE 15 TRUE ANO ACCUMATE TO THE BEST OF MY FaDMLEOGE AND RELIEF.
HWLs CERTIFICATION CONSTITUTES MY APPLICATION FOR A MAINTENANCE ABAR PROVIOID 1 AM ELIGIOLE UNOLR THE. TEAMS OF
AEGULATION WO. 23-113. PAR. 1€(41. 1 UNDERSTAND THAT | MUST PASS AM OBJECTIVE LANGUALE PBOFICIENCY TEST BEFORE !
BECOME ELIGIBLE FOR AN AWARD, AND TWAT IKMESPECTIVE OF THC OATC OF TESTING, ANNUAL MAINTENANCE ARAROS WILL OE

CUMULATIVE AS OF THE ANNIVERSARY DATE OF COMPLETING THIS FORM,



: —— : SECRET

en Fittest

VERIFIED RECOSO-OF OVERSEAS SERVICE

Office of Personnel, Statistical Reyorting Branch, ROOM 5.E 2506 Readquartera

: : REME CF EMPLOYEE _
Ca
peri

OFF ICR/COMPONENT

an F rine)

“ MARteY oo WORETAN

INSTRUCTIONS:

TA FoR CUIME RS CR tov.
(3c DATA. SDARECTION, GR CANCELLATION (One.onty). REPORT

TE OWLY FOR YEAR.

‘Lust aronorarare space
TORATE SNETHER SURNISSION
FOR THE MONTH, AND LAST.

PCS DATES OF SERVICE

Thee oF ata BAR IVAL [OCranvune county,

+ Pcs (Basie)

Conncerics aa
j ITALY |

CANCELLATION

ReTwRN aREAUSD

Tre OF ATA

3637 | 39-39

+ Dy (Basid)
+ conscetion
2 CaNceLtation

SOUBCE oF “SECCRD DOCUMENT

TRAVEL VOUCHER. Disparen

cane GUT) STATUS OR TIME AMD ATTENDANCE REPORT

OTMER (Specity)

‘GOECMENT_DATE/PERIOD

‘DOCUMENT TOESTIFICATION NO.

22 March 1966

TW 80062

REMARKS,

BASED UPON SOURCE
0

REPORT ANNOTATED @] ABOVE DATA VERIFIED CORRECT
Document ¢

PREPARED BY

[eee siviniem

torea 151 eo,



diy Linison olficer in one ns told me of
tae tremcaidous sistuner & comoperation. that ha
is section received at all times fron
Harvey.

Lounderstand that

«alarvey has now
returned to } ngton ‘and I would like to say hoy
uch I appreciate oll that he has done to assist
the work of my officers in iione, :

With kindest regards and best’ wishes,

Yours

Tne fonorable W,f, Raborn,
Director,

Central Intelligen
WASUING Cy,

2 Agency,



hen

WERIETED, RECORD OF OVERSEAS SERVICE

SECRET : ae :

rilled'te) Spat areesesesciaaaays

eee)

ESSTSY, WILLIAM Ke

INSTRUCT 10NS,

“oh tov. “inseat appnoraii i coun
me THe

Tov DATES OF SERVICE

Fi DePaRTUmI

eran Gor

Tease Sam iETrr)

Taacze | s0-31 | 92-39

ganas | se-a7 | 3

SOURCE OF RECORD DOCUMENT

Teavee voucnee

[ [evsraren

came

coer

OTMeS (Speci ly)

TaCuMERT 1DeMTIFTEATION WO,

TH 26160

‘DOCUMENT OATE/PERN

4 Jan. 1966

covery

PREPARED BY

Tececar aisoraTep ow
‘Ri source oocuuent

ABOVE-OATA VERIFIED CORPIT™. SASED UPON SOURCE

© ot orvisiow
Xie et ewisiow

lise

113 Jan, 1966



SECRET

(hen Filled tad)

VERIFiED' RECORD. OF, OVERSEAS ‘SERVICE

ave OF EWPLOVEE

Office of Persshnel, Statistical Reporting Br&rich, ROOM 192 Curie
Fieger |

LT

Fiast
Trae?

wine

OFFICE COMP CNENT

Olt ba i | fee

‘ hithan Kk

rer

Ust_apraory

ATE shack erica 10 aEPoRT OATA FoR CiTuiA PCS'OR Toy.
TO OLSIGHATE mMETnEe S.setsSion 13 OF BASIC 0)

NUMBER FoR THE MONTw, aN LAST FeO DIGITS OMLY £6

INSTRUCT 10S.

EOPRECTION; OW-CARCELLATION (Ont

Inscer apeao

Tree oF ware

Vs pes (Bante)

PCS UATES OF SERVICE

aenvaL

3!

‘CORRECTION,

CANCELLATION

a

FcoeTe ESEETN BEIT

f 06

Be 163

TPE oF bate

2+ wy (Basie)

arene

TOY DATES OF SEPVICE

aerome

45 coneccriom

a _ | te-28,

5 canereLarion

TRAVEL VOUCHER

came

SOUPCE OF RECGRD DOCUVENT

OTHER (Speetly)

| orsearcw

DUTY STATUS O8 TIME AND ATTENDANCE VSPORT

DOCUMENT 1OEMTIFICATION NO

Pre

Cie

| DOCUMENT DATE/PERI20

PREPARED 8Y

PORT ANNOTATED

aagve
source aocuwemt ee

bate.

‘SIGNATURE

DATA VERIFIES COW
Docuen

33.



VERIFIED; RECORD OF -OVERSEAS. SERVICE 450470 +E

“JecreT.

Cine Filteg tay

nnély Statistical

Branch, 770 192 Curie’ Ball

EW LOVEE SERIAL-NO. -

FoR Toe

axhont cata Fon
NATE ONCTHE® SUBMIESUIN IS OF BASIC CATA: CORRECTION, 2 CANCELLATION (One nip). UME

mT, AND LAST THO OF;

INSTRUCT 1OMS
trite’ Ped on vey.” “Inseet dePeopatate cot nuwacn tw coor coLuMN

1S OME FoR ve

PCS DATES OF SERVICE

Tyre oF ATA

[ese f wsore

Pes (Beate) aa

Pirze

2 conacerion
2 eancetgation

mE et ve ahs See
a | | i

TOY DATES OF. SCRVICE

Tree OF OATA

tov (Baste)

DEPARTURE were

“connection
CANCELLATION

SOURCE OF RECORD DOCUMENT

TeavEL vouewee

Disparce

ca

DUTY STATUS Of Thu AND ATTENDANCE #EPORT

OTMER (Speculy)

BOCCWEMT IOERTIFICATION NOW

DocuwtnT water

sewn

PREPARED BY

Seront annotaTeo oN
SeuRcE oocuMERT

DOVE DATA vEstesED COARECT. BASED UPCW SOURCE
‘DocumtmT ci

Trascat iviston

Teance O1vtS 10%

me

‘Stowatore :

"SECRET Fi : (ato



os . “y .

H 7 > ‘SECRET : ty i:

. ue 2 Mithen Filta Tay bey

RECORD OF OVERSEAS SERVICE - 1504

ee Tor”

Offige of Personnel; Statistical Reporting Branch, ROGM-192 Curte Hall

~_NAWE OF EVPLOVEE

INSTRUCT tons,

stvonr oata ron eituea eda’ on tov. unseat appnorinvAte cove muagn im “co0e* cOLuam
State park, ConmeeTion, © CANCELUATHON (One onlsge MEPORT CATES OY USING THE
tra OMY Pon Yea

USC arpnopniate space acvow 7
‘TO.DESHGMATE WHETHER SUBMISSION 18
NUGDER FOR THE MONTH, AND LAST Tet

PCS OATES OF SERVICE
Tet oF Oata Anaivat ‘couNTRY

1. pes (Beeted
3: commection’
32 canceucarton

TOY DATES,.oF SERVICE

Tree OF DATA DEPARTURE eTuew aaeatey

B+ Yor cassie) ara | 99.90 a | 39.38
22 Coneerson |
6 + CANCELLATION 4 kd

4 me | os

SOURCE OF RECCRO DOCUMENT

pisrarcw

cee OUTY STATUS O® TIME, AND ATTENDANCE REPORT

‘OTHER (Specl ty)

‘DOCUMENT IDERTIFICATION WO. [eet ‘aTesPeRton

‘RewanKs

REPORT ANNOTATED ON ‘ABOVE DATA VERIFIED CORAECT, BASED LPON SOURCE
$0 ; BecuMENT CrTED ;

PREPARED BY

| Trrsea_biviston
[Priwanct oavisiom

sy Sta tenon



RESIDENCE DATA
Pe react OF wea

EEW PRuiwe ST Chey, > Chase. Wd

me ohivar > Cop nemats (es Ee ae z

Teare or wanniact

aS, NSTEATE PUGH OF Wb nce
eg ‘ fhanrtin E af sv

Ve OIWwRsue, PLACE OF BIVOREE BECHER ce or pecnee

PURE OF AESISTRCE euEN APFOTRERD, TH_COWTINEW TAL OB aT ronnie airond)

Toate spouse oreo

VF w10SetD, THOIGATE PLACE SPOUSE DIED

TF PREVISUALY WARETED, INDICATE WAwe(3) OF SPOUSE, HEAGON(S] FOR fFOMINATION, AND OATEESD

Sienna oe FAT
City dane Storey Trairaont sonore

aeoRess «%,

oe ane
AKA CRAGE Mee Foick | _ AM bee
VA ATES. | Se m 42

ee : a | #0

Vaud oF ggtwie (Or wale duaedianp Taooness

lec CAS ed i . _—
wat oF rir teeals gusta ony jones ad ay agp Lied Tre tnage nowt
Sarat LklsWeRnth wood Pave _\x4 <s7

THE AGENCY TOR tulAGENcyY PURFOSEST

weve) oF es: ay ab ctw Fou OF our arr
’

en

PENSGY TD SE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMUKGENCY

wae (Wry wea, ive) Bat Fr et-Mnsdle)

Wi ae. Abou e i
TON ests Chine Nivea Citys fe, SYST TRE Teg vane wage

1On Y-$77

‘Seecet, City, fone, State) ano nant OF LwPLOVER, iF APPLICAMLE: BUSINESS TELEPHONE # EXTENSION

wesintss Betas Gere

we WNDUGIEUAL HAWED AUOVE WITTING OF VOUR AGENCY AFFILIATION?

ome

ye Tis AMORNETO TO WANE HLCID TONS on VoUR BOHALTy

ayer

E

Sauco iy ITew 3 AGOVE WAY ALSO GE NOTIFILO IN CASE OF EMERGENCY. IF SUCH NOTID ICATION 15 NOT DESIRABLE

OCEASE CY SENLTH C8 OIMER REASONS, PLEASE SO STATE IN 116 6 ON THE REVERSE SOC OF Tues FORE

rs VOLUNTARY ENTRIES

Vpn Gy oaning INTiTUTIONS wat wnnen vou wave accounts Ada aay] For? MWA kro /
Bavk + BAN of, Silver ee like
ConTINUED_oN REVERSE S10E

CURRENT RESIDENCE AND DEPENDENCY REPORT
“CONFIDENTIAL ~

Vise Bt


eaeee CONFIDENTIAL poe

(then Felted tnd

Fie twine donily

Se Vas, coaeeeTea A Last wad Ano WesvamnTT CR] ht EL] we Ey, meat To pocT WeeaTE

RCO OC we Ey ee CORES OE eo

WF e

“Wy | Glltaiafibarue

CONFIDENTIAL



‘ ae SECRET .
tee 4  Githen fed tm) nee

i : : . TUTORIAL TRADING. REPORE . :
“student : Willie K. Harvey fico
eae Year of Birth: 1915 : Service Deatgnation: D
c - cesta t . a i
: Grade 118 No. of Students =r 1
BOD Date + 09/47 : Inatructor: Mrs. M. Lutyk
i Thip is to certify that Witliem K. Harvey ae
_recaived __ 92 fi 7 ___ hours of tutorial training in
i TOALIAN language.
i ia
: ; .° Beginner Eo :

+‘ Non-beginner :

: FOR THE DIRECTOR OF TPAINING: gf es Me Be J :
‘ j ____ fice c, umrpen 20/21/63 |
: aa oN 3 f Tastrictor Bate
exert mca
id
cecraeatie
B-EsCORET

(ben rilled “in}



pene Tye (7 / Brrmel
(nei 7



‘ .

aan SECRET

~~ ee 2 ~ g (When Fitted tn)

Sora aaa
28 Hovenber 1966

STOP FIcE, OIVIBION, BRANCH

) Praeuprormanr

anTmance on oUTY :
- sar

il Sl oa ree z

i : rea oF Coven

‘yor sranony

lepeciaL TRAWUING

1 WO: GF OEPENOENTS TO RECOMPANY,

Wo, 6 Or renoenTe
Hisron tise a8) ATT

La.

annua, = Executive 2gaT? OF MEDICAL

RETURN TO OUTY ETUNN FROM OVERSEAS

rerness ror bury

oo0@oo08

MEDICAL RETIREMENT

1%. OVERIHAS PLANNING EVALUATION.

To. comment e

QUALIFIED FOR CURRENT DUTIFS AT HEADQUAKTES

Vi, REPORT OF EVALUATION

SIGNAVURE FOR CHIEF OF MEDICAL STAPF

SOHNE. PHALLIC
PAYSICAL HEGUIKEMENTS OFFICER

Editrone,

TON 259 vieneous SECRET : bad



SECRET

(aden Filled ed

po rontion rue
i

FEV ALuaTiON:

=
oO
(a
3
ea
=

om

o

PRE-EMPLOY)
mwrnance on ourY
tor france
Sreciat-tAinine
ana.

RgTURN To OUTY

fitwess ron ouTY

MEOICAL RETIREMENT

EE. woos
(oT ovtnsess Assreenr

NOs OF BERENSENTS TO ACCOMPANY

5
Nisvomy (sr acc av Fach

RETURN FROM OVERSEAS

[station

NO.OF BEATS

[NO.OF DEFESSENTS! REPORTS OF MEDICAL
eo

3. OVERSEAS PLANNING EVALUATION (One Block musi Se checked

REQUESTING OFFICER

[es]
Ey

Qualified for Current Duties

ves

“0

Sienatone

aSSa CW BUI EINE

Vi. REPORT OF EVALUATION

ioe" 259

Use PREVIOUS
Eorrions,

BiGRm TNE OW IRFU MEOICAL STAPF
Peter J. Gaughan

SECRET

ue



SECRET.
(When Filled In)

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

(7) vse curorene ao (EEX) ovensans

O enrnance on our
(J 10% sranoer
J erceuae raanine
J amass

co RETURN YO OUTY

i (aul) sissuleaa cary

[) mtoreas wermenene [Rona

STATION

‘3, OVERSEAS PLANNING EVALUATION (One block must be checked) 2. REQUESTING OFFICER

[nawavone
Ga
CJ x0

Ti, REPORT OF EVALUATION

732263 —

rom 959 Ee reegiowe "SECRET : tend

Ebtriows,


a SECRET =
sgh Flite tn,

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL: -EVALUATION

Wroare oF BESUCST

17 March 1965 5 . y
Tits Maat ; TTR rosin eeeeaaanega 7 ie a 4
te of FANVAT, Willies Ke fe He : ‘|

“[O] toaster ©

pater Loreen : 1" Ca) Svanneas sanoniint
oo

oremanee on oury : 10 March 1966 |

z TOY sTANO8Y Dopententsr Ra

Wife: Clara CG, TPE or coven —
‘arecia Teamayan Sally dey 10 ie ss

SERVE VO ACCOMPANY

! ad or srmenmen RE
Uae, : NSronr se 6 aT

neTURN To OUTY |, RETURN PROM OVERSEAS

|. rivmess ror oury a ‘

“MEOICAC RETIREMENT

ee oaee |

BL OVERSEAS PLANNING EVALUATION (One lech must be checked 2. REQUESTING OFFICER
BOWAT IRE zi

ie ittetn
el srs Se

To coma

259 forworded at.request of
fans

Ip1ZD FOR PROPOSED 0 3

Wi REPORT GF EVALUATION a * 7 “

QUAL.

1eiy 259 Hesse DED SECRET Cora



SECRET

(ance Filled tn)” : :

Teronrion rire

i Chief ot ‘station

“h PURPORE OF EVALUATION”

PRE-EMPLOYMENT -

entRante’on OUT Y,

‘Yov.sranosy.
SPECIAL Trainin |

ANNUAL

aetuR ro ourY

FITNESS FoR OUTY

MEDICAL RETIREMENT

“CED waiver :
LR] ovenseas sssrosnigwy

aon ae | July ives

aTation

Rome
eas

jENTS REPORTS OF WEDICAL |
neo

ETURN FROM OVERSEAS.

ete

[ration

[Rover see —

ee

| OVERSEAS PLANNING EVALUATION (One bicch must bo checked) _|

b 2. PEQUESTING OFFICER

ves

so

Request evaluation tor above PCS.

Hewarune Coe

MARGE GnosTRPHAN

Roo NO. w BUTI
B 4404

1, REPORT OF EVALUATION

me 5) waepaeiow
{S80 289 Eotetowac' oY?



fooare oF RrguEST

16 May. 1963

CXR cvsisnas sesame”
ofa 1 July 1963, -

vow sranoey ”

SPECIAL TRADING, .
TO. OF OF PENDENTS TO ACCOMPANY

annuae, : 7 NO, OF OEPENOENTS REPORTS OF MEDICAL
Ni rgpy (ar an) at racneo

TURN FROM OVERSEAS

WeTURN To DUTY

PITNRSS FOR DUTY.
STATION .

MEDICAL RETIREMENT - [io OF oer

1h, OVERSEAS PLANNING Ev ALUATION (One Block must bo checked) 2, REQUESTING OFFICER

a ar a J ae
Cx] ve i | mance Gnostepaan 7

UILOINa. ear

tees (C] ne Co
‘ 7 | 4B 4404 7157

Tor Gonmaen Te

‘89's on file in medical office - per telephone conversation 16 May 63

Tis WEPORT OF EVALUATION

are

SECRET



‘SECRET |

often Fitted ny) hoon

Repro
i Laneadaa

~Giiek

act unr

oO sie tinvorment

(7) thiemned
: :

a

 orteune eam
TT snmune

‘| ne riRn.ro oUTY
(1 events vor aur

i | MEDICAL RETIREMENT

Br OvEnSaad PLAWninG EVALUATION (One bloc must by emeche_[
oj
7] we

Th REPORT GP EVALUATION

F aries

$e 259 eotrrones Oo" SECRET aw



REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

ROate OF

20 Octeber.1960

Fi Staff, ‘Divisica D

PaeeMPLOMENT

ntaance on oury

ovenseas ReTuRN

‘YoY sranoay

sPEctaL TRAINING

ANNUAL

RETURN TO OUTY

rirness For OUTY

“MEOICAL RETIREMENT

ory

28 October 1960

‘roany ond Switzerland = *

heron SEEERDEMTS REEQRTS OF MEDICAL
STORY (SP a9) ATTACHED.

TOT REPORT OF EVaLUATION

Subject departed on another BOY prior to evaluation,

proposed TY.

However 19 Qualified for

SESS 259 eervioss'O*

siaiciai
ov 197) M4

i



atquEsT FoR PAYSICAL EXAMINATION w

afirsty

3+ TO POSITION : : ee ore py hia {a3 53's"

jo. Feht OF Posi tiow Te tratvate FOR

coo
overseas BOE

Caaturnse

"
hewsttetes tor rtmental Outy Onty

Remarkat

QUAUITIED i
OAKS
Ris
sh

SEORT

WEDTEAL OFFICE


MEDI

1 REQUEST-FOR PHYSICAL: EXAMINATION GY.

i oeTraparerrr is

“SECRET

OMe Filled tay”

Gexmany.
oTVPE OF PUsutiON

Co ovpartaontat

Ti REPORT OF MEDICAL, EVALUATION

Cows Fetes for Full Outy (Generate

Cohivatittes tor departmentat outy only

; eee
© CT rre-taptoymant

‘CJanruat

Cspeetar ispecttys

CTivetitiog tor Tait outy topeclert
CoAsisavatities

Renorke: Ploasehotify Corinne L, Hassell, x3041, of results.

BOY Leg pe mneny

es DUI PAS, Ud

ED PES G3 £58,

MEETS ¢ 9

957
Sar
yp te

wise GFFV



fom UNVOUCNERED EXPLOYEE ONLY. eI

VBdECT QUALIFIED FORE
[7 rn ovr overseas CET] tinirea corr overseas © © (T] purr wn usa ony

PROFILE SERIAL (MILITARY ONLY) | : [ { ]

DEFECTS NOTED AND/OR RECOMMENDATIONS?

FORM HO. 97-32 FORMS 47-32 ano 37-97. muLCH MAY Of UE:

NOV 1981



HYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS” ouTy i tee

eee ige ag ab ts gah .

Keryey, Wiliiar Ke . WAS GIVEN A PHYSICAL

EXAMINATION ON THIS DATE AND FOUND QUALIFIED FOR

Overroaa ~* ‘
FULU DUTY OVERSEAS LIMITED DUTY OVERSEAS (CJ uty 1 usa onty

PROFILE SERIAL (FOR ARMY EM ONLY) f | Cc | Hee Ge |

DEFECTS NOTED:
Approved for IVY, To report to Hodical after TOY

JOU Re THETIEN, MaDe

Form no,
orc toa 27°98



SARVEY, WILLIA

TRE a ST

Intelligence Officer

DEPARTMENT Ow FIELD

‘Tearstzontal

Subject was fotind physically EEO fit urfit for duty with this organization
in the above grade and position. 10 Tsy 1948

RECOMMENDATIONS:

2 Sevruary 1922 =
bate UWNATURE OF PavSicat StevatwENTS ORK ER



_SEaTRAL tiTcuLicciCe sgtacy oe,
WASHINGTON 28, D._.C. °
of PRYSLCAL ‘QUALIFICATIONS ror bury.

— as brent it .

arver, Mit? tan aaa 0 WAS GIVEN A PHYSICAL

EXWAINATION ON THIS DATE AND FOUND QUALIFIED FOR

x JFULL OUTY OVERSEAS LIMITED DUTY OVERSEAS DUTY IN USA ONLY

PROFILE SERIAL (FOR ARMY EM ONLY) Cy if ] ]

DEFECTS ‘NOTED: Yone

rom 40. :
37.9)
fue bay 27°98 : tose



“say. CtaTRAt Artenusocnce, en
Report we PHYSICAL "QUALIFICATIONS rut DUTY

oe

_ WAS GIVEN’ A PHYSICAL

EXAMINATION ON THIS DATE AND Pound QUALIFIED FOR :

Py Se) wy
Coca] Fue oury overstas © (Ju imtteo oury overseas, (Joury in. usa omy

\

PROFILE SERIAL (FOR aSvy EM ONLY) © agin) feces) (eees) Gee] fac

Ys: aR

DEFECTS NOTED:
Bone

ines 288 : dad E, TEIN, out ww

rated



Brealey APPLIC§T AN FOR FEDERAL EMPLO*/ SSP bonavithe sxe

ECE CGMM ON

T Riis a vient TT ROS AR
Do Kor write i THIS BLOCR,

i RAO OF BaTiO EAT isweue ses

Tie aoa aianel arpbel ke

cory

. Sa US eae + on ah

Tae

Remote

Were
: 1G. moe
5 Fiore oe gyi G
3] HU rore anyiloyat by te Feleral Governmat give pramett grado and tute of
5] roma ;

Tae

Wh te Wows you accept shoe arm appointment ot atwent |
ae Tt semret TES mae

erreeets

eet meena |

(o) What ite eee eonune wiser ution GAP.

Would you accent a4 ates —
‘BS Would you accept apputnicant nae ?

‘ bobieicrristoedtteepeceae ‘You will net Ss ecauidered for positions pasing laws.
earehore in the Unsnd St. Sg ep panes aE a
"Gxserae Frenwesy OD) cmeasay

‘ute the United tte.

‘uhh yoo hive reaeeee
Wevit per rar ta Soh pou eso ena oet “Sth aye pees FESINT
Dey te pancpal isa wae soo porteaed a sack poston Dencnbe fd oe

trom thot shown tn Ties 4 of tex says give under “Dascrptan of our work” for

Faatce vdtwort cach, ascuntng forall penrtec eny
BORIS UG Aencel Larvae im gastees {Fiesty feos

alps were ange meme ia ony pon ase a Saone itn
ay Dyn Cive tarot Leen om copa or are aw eneaxcrat

PRESENT POSITION

TERSA Be of povs pemort Fone

ST aa aa ETI TT
Tove ies Gapetetat tute ewe a

ES deaiing io elanpe sap lreaae



Boab ora ahoctol paper tea oa



CL iemwne sitet O11

id Han end Lessin af ne

vers:

Wo NOT suki copies unions rotuertad

enerionce
cco, oa,

natn uny puch hits Lath, scwenthe cp seadnal tek

ce ee!



ina ae aml

ena Not wane give grade er Faieg ah

: rast munition ote? 3 toe
Tatas Toe or Ny unener ty piven Rniwanr humm, | TES 1 NO) eee
Bee nr am te
. ep lpn oar gee BOS ep ga spate Dae ara
demrmniathr sort aera Beteanarene
seen torn
ieee ets cet Shy |
CSAS ; :
epureericta ty cs i ie ae
srg ry ar rete oe fige e E [OAS
inser amas a ears
sialic to oa Wiens
axe amano
. SEES Meare
. Prereyernncteusmamfen item (see Rae

eb ectelyee Tate al rotenone

ML Depa rmetea on anmty fom Ha 8 ie DC Grvernmant
tAEerresennantin tar any karat clot esnpariestun
bor ety oe oad wert
reur onawer 4 Yo tre in fn
an iaavec cent, dial pa tee de
Rar ond a eae rourestart 4 ue

3M, Are yeuan efctalur omploree od 267
Soniye

Tanour answers Few

cn cacy any

Dae tha U.S Ganar went amt te
3, ith we

tare of costs tay eed
or hiveivabnunn thea e
Byres ainewer te Ya wera tn ul or FACE
core FIC mine 2) Femennt wae 13) poem
feet ge ayer Ey ioe agus gerd, ed) hn od upp

BA, Hare pou ores had 9 nereous Hroaktowe?..
“Yea give mt ite ete les 38,

34 Mao gos nice Nad tl an

DB your unsnar i" Fag” glee oii tdata alls in Hem 33.

th
i Tuer ak
TAor

abd pas
strobe

1 tha unimartind wat wah ei oe
hea ale ae a oe

SN YE). fo) OF
Hick ay ear she
atch chins

RAY Deon Si Bt Tas 50

THI8 BPACT. TOR USE OF APPOINTING OT ICE ONLY

‘The tndormation cxntciemlin a anrers os Quertan 9 cline has bene rer

Lec bp cumprunacss math iy ashe ye curhiata:on 2.

Eran thai

Sts

{IGN 15 PUNISHASLE BY,LAW, CI § CODE TITLE ta. SEcTIO®
a satemenia und 19 Rasta 4 Sppiccabun are {nua sane Sn Suet 19 the tant sh WW hemahze aR Let on are made te ert bem

Seat ard eacinannton toe

2



PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

EMSTRUCTIONS: — Ansmee ALC QUESTIONS COMPLETELY. LF CuESTISY COLES NOT APPLY WRITE SMCT APPLICABLES.
WRITE SURANDUNS OMLL-TE YOY OO MOT RNOW "THE ANSWER AND CARNC” CETAIN THE AMSWEE FEC PERSONAL RECORDS.
USE A SEPASATE SHEET CF PAPER FOR EXT QETAILS OW AMY GUESTIC OF QUESTIONS FE WHICH YOU 00 NOT HAVE
SUFFICIENT ROCH. ATTACH TWO RECENT “PASSPCRT SIZE-PICTUSES To THiS FOSM. CATE TANCK WRITTEN CN THE Back
OF EACH. TYPE, PRINT CS MITE CARCFULLTE “TELCGIOLE OR IACEHPCETE FORMS WILL MOT RECEIVE CONS IDERAT ON

WAVE YOU READ AND GHSENSTOOO THE AOVE INSTRUCTIONS?
SECTION a. PenSOuat BACKENOUED

PRESENT ADDRESS. . STREET AND NUNOED

262) Sth Strect Xe

TeGat RESTOENCE STREET and aUNBER
Maysville

None.
RTICULARS (WHERE WER ONO BY, WHAT or ae

WATURALIZATION
CERTIFICATE

OTHER CITIZENSHIPS (GIVE FARTICULARS)
None

tast u.g,| NUMBER
fassrort’| None

ALL OTHER U.S. PASSPORTS VOU WAVE WAD (GIVE APPROKTMATE OATES)

PASSPORTS OF OTHER WATIONS -

1F bone DATE OF ARRIVAL iW THIS courey Boat GF ENTRY ——TPASSPORT OF COUNTRY
OUTSIOE U.S. - - oe

WTR

Blonde
COMPLEXION Buito
Fair H *riangular scar rt. cheek Medium stocky
‘OTHER DISTINGUISHING FEATURES 7
mustache

Fouu wo- Facet

sep 0. * .



|
ad
{
/
i
i
i
i
|

Tate GF sePstaTiOnow prvenct

[ree

EEN SASTHED MORE THAN CALE USE A
SWE GUIRED BELSe FOS ALL PREVECUS HARE TAGES,

SEPARATE SHEET FOR FORMER WIFE OR MUS

iO AND GIVE Dar

wiDDLETFOR WIFE, MAIDEN

Motnt

7 OF WIFE
Om nuSBAND

[ToATE_ OF NARRIACE

‘STATE TouNTRY

Taig o@ er) a008¢ 35]

‘STREET AND AUNSER
‘BEFGRE: MARR I Aah :

Tndions.

Kentucky

Riad coe

£4 oF EA
ung ORI :
oecéaseo ind

NET
Washington, De

cy

eREStAT OR SPaie? and WOMBER

{ASF anes] 2697 | 3Oth Street . KeMe.
Peace CF AIRTH © 1
=| -Fleningeburg,

are ACQUIRED” WHERE
Jaccuree

Birth

Tey

COUNTRY
UeS.he
couaTay
UeSeAe
CounTaY

STATE

‘Stave

Teast, excover

1 Mar Department - MDW

- S obiaet ts :

STREET 2D NUMBER” city

“Pentagon Bldg Washington Ds Ce

STATE COUNTRY.

USA

cick bel =

GTMEA GOVERNMENT “SERVICE, U.S. GP FOREIGN (GIVE DETAILS)

Seo above, Yar Depte, HDi o

BREN OR DEPENDENTS (INCLUDE PARTIAL OLPENDERTS)

Mee ‘OF SERVICE [CouNTRY

[Ret ationsniP
mt

STRESS STREET AND MUMOER ee

RELATIONSHIP

CcounTRY

city

SONS.

counTRY

TRELaTIONSWIP

counTRY

AEQUIRED BELOW ON SEPARATE SHEET

ae meee |
++ [oeceaseoGe

passes; oe fa ee

fast Aeses

TCORTRY
UeSeAe

~~ TPLACE OF BIRTH

COUNTAY
Sede

BRE TURD ci

Birth

WHERE: i
[scouts

‘CounTRY

CAST EWPLOWER

wean reRe

aa

2655

COUNTRY
US.

PARENTS (coN" 2262



HRS? WATOER
Teg

STREET aNd NUMBER
Solty vs. Strect!

COUNTRY,
UeSede

couarey

ores on osm] STRUT AS
BESS ADDRESS i: sccrak

one

COUNTRY
Ue Sake

PRESENT AOORESS STREET AND RUMOER

CouNTaY

Wane Fir HIDOLE
fl Nona

PRESENT ADDRESS STREET AND RUNGER

Counter

Fiest AIOE

STREET AND WONDER

Counter

LAM FURST WiDoTE TasT
Jan2s . Marvin HoTstine, Sry

DATE OF OECEASE ib

SISEET AND WUREER THT
Yeo Mt. Saszel Avenue Flenis:

PLase OF B1aTH civ
|
{___ Fleming ty, Kents

CounTeY

OaTE AcquIRED ahERE
Birth Acquired]
TAST EMPLOYER
Self,

usa
COUNTRY

WANE OF WOTHER-TN-LAW FIRST WATOEN

sintire

RSE anita
Arteris-scleroscis

‘STREET AND WUMBER ‘STATE

Sorel Avenue inesterg, Hentucky

‘COuarey
USA

STATE

CouNtay
USA

‘STATE

cousTayY

i
i
4
i



ema RER COTTER:

fstcTiow 6. RELATIVES Hacesveeeete

MOTE: InoICATE HttUm HE WiLATIVES BY BLOOD, MaKWT
IMPLUENCE OFA FOREIGR ROMER, ARE MOITCHTIZENS OFT

“Qe ADOPTION, WHO (IVE APSCAD, ARE UNDER: THE
ITED STATES, OR ADF WAERIED TO RON-CITIZERS.

werate

CouNTRY

lcrrizinswiP eee STRECT AND RUMGER | city

CASON FOR LISTING UROL THIS QUESTION -

HOVE: -mOICATE PLLOW THE RETATIVES BY BLOOD OR MAKRIAGE, IM MILITARY, WAVAL OR OTHER GOVERNMENT
ViCL (UNITED. STATES DR FOPEIGK) ; :

TAT TORENT:
Cousin *
STATE ‘CouNTRY

RELATIONSHIP

STATE TOuNTRY

STTizewSAT

TPT ANG LOCATION. OF St

RELATIONSHIP WCE

STATE CounTRY

NECTION 9.

rouoo. Th a COUNTRY

USA.

88 Tanville, Tndiona
Haute, . Indiana

peaaeeed 3-4 ae
aODWT SE arn
ye Hautes Indians

ie €

_— TouNTRY
4. Hloominstoa Indlena ———p USA
a orGRrE TB with Distinction

yrs. 1
STATE ‘COUNTRY



[SECTiow 10. SELECTIVE SERVICE RES

. - f PetasstFieation r forcen numee@ PPRSVIWATE TROUCTIGN GATE [ BOARD, MUKOER
: ene ee freee None E113
 [RODRESS“OF 7 ‘STREET ARO NUMBER Paiimaicayy Y Stare .

ae AA RILITARY, HAVAL OR OTHER GOVERANEAT SERVICE — UNLTEO STATES ® FOREIGN
- s QuaTRY

‘SERIAL NURRER

. -\fSECTIOM 12, CNROMOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT (USE A0DI TIONAL SHEE’ IF NECESSARY)

Hl WOTE: TNCLUDE BELOW PERIODS OF UNEMPLOYMENT AND CASUAL EMPLOYMEAT. Give AODRESS AND STATE wnaT YOU. it
| DIO DURING PERICOS OF UNEMPLOYMENT. INCLUDE LAST $ POSITIONS AND COVER AT LEAST £8 YEARS. ;
: ! femPcoveR = Toe Tite ies
| RH. King Construction “o. pho fee
: . i Inooress ‘STREET AnD NUMBER cite State Ried OF BUSINESS 3
i Dhnville, Indiana Sridze Const metion :
Frou DUTIES ano SPECIALITY aes Win ‘OF SUPERVISOR f
Nonetruction "orker 2 Rw. King e
foares] From: Tor SALARY eR
jcoveReo| 5/26 9/26 S10 week
| REASONS FOR (CAVING
i _ “Rotum to school :
i EMPLovER Tz TYE
| Thurille Surette Reporter & Prin
f ADORE SS STREET AnD NUMBER cary ‘STATE RIND OF BUSINESS
Danville Indiana Ke 3
Your Duties ao seeviacity Trea
: Hditoral and Kechnnical Work win Enll, Site
i loaves | From; To: Re Per
COVERED, Os" 1933 S1H-225 week
Reasons FoR LeAvaNs
EY t D 3
ewPiover Joe Tite
Intieng Untyare Poblictty tei
inoORESS STREET ABO NUMBER cite STATE ‘OF BUSINESS
Bloozington Indisna _See_phore

Your ouri€s ano SPECIALITY AME OF “SUPERVISOR

i = tic Pub ¥ Jarious_
2 loaves” | FRGH: Taat Pee :
COVERED Sorting LCR $10-(acerex) week i
[REASONS FOR LEAVING ;
olintary Sesisna 2 .
EMPLOYER Jos TITLE a
So 2 otels
AOORESS STREET AnD AUMOER tity ‘STATE HIND OF BUSiNE! :
: 0 Coxart Stoss doyssille _ racticg of La
¥ Tere

(courinED To PAGE 6)



int OF CUFT RV TSO

ono

¢ Tayontiat ton

of :
SMUT aN UM wt SHIT

_ciprins
TaD OF Bi areegrs

Joe THE

‘STRLET AND BUMBER ci ‘STATE ern OF BUSINESS

FROM: ie 7 por

TeavING

OTE: Im SPACE BELOW GIVE DF TAILS CONCERNING ANY POSITION FROW WHICH YOU MAY WAVE BEEN DISCHARGED OR WHICH YOU
“MAT “RIE LEFT UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH WERE 4OT ENTIRELY FAVORABLE.

Tana
Adaolutely Nong

Jane Bigs, ARG UR
faataess: ptf aah a ho WM f
Bank of Kaygvil)

t Hosa Hite Fa —
FE Yeyuvilie, Rye

TRESS STRUCT AWD WOOT
‘ochran Bldg. Hager log y

viTTEO STATES (Guat RIGAGES ADeGSS wat
C760. Cy

fo: TREY TRS ROE ten, 2

U.S. “strict Yourt  Vashington, Do A

‘ADDRESS STREET AND WONBER ronag SYATE

Andrewa Field Marylent
AAORESS STREET AMD WONPER tHY e111 aaa
py



i

Tage 43. EL O@ORSDRALDee eSiA Tee fois tie ste
STSLET AND AUNBES ae

Ene eee
Rich: rd-Froor_ o ‘+ | 8627 WG th Ste Mews ‘ashtngton, De: C,
RANE iH TopmesS STSEET AND -MUMBEQ i cite 7 srate-
John Folebeng. Yeshington, D, 6,
awe : aooatss ee Te » STATE
Richard Gallaher; - Mathington, 'D, 0

[SECTION 16. MISCELLANEOUS.
oto: cy EvER Mave Of 00 You we save M{MELASNIP In, OR SUPRIRT any. POLITICAL PARTY OF ORGARIZATION wn
THE ‘OVEATHROW OF OUR CONSTITATICNAL FORM OF GOVERWMENT IH TRE UNITED STATESE. "YES CJ "0
IF ANSMER TS SES? EXPLAIN SESa: Tae

M ADVOCATES,

foo You Use , OR WAVE YOU USED teTcxICANTS?

Twave YCU_EVER GLEN ARRESTED, TMCtSTED 08 CONVICTED FOR ANY VIOLATION OF Law CTNER-THAR A MINOR TRSFFIC VIOLATION?
1180, STATE MAME OF COURT, Cat>. STATE, COUNTRY, MATURE OF OFFENCE, AND DISPOSITION OF CASE.

0

nave vou EVER GEEN COURT-NCRT-ESD WHILE A MEMBER OF THE ABMED FORCES? ves (J
tf ARSBES *YES*, GIVE DETATLS SELOW:

SECTION 47. FINANCIAL GACKCRTUAE inant
ARE YOU ENTIRELY OEPEMDENT ON “cum Saag? VeS(&-] NOL] iF ANSWER 1S “AO, STATE SOURCES OF OTHER INCOME.

RANES CE SANKS WIT" WHICH YOU Male AQcOUNTS

Fecpics Bank of leaving “county, Pleningsburg, Kentu
State National Hank, Sayeville, Kentucky (Aactrecently clo

1S *YES*,- GIVE PARTICULARS:

exingsdury,
[ADDRESS yeah ar ae

ORES STREET aN ORE cy trate
Washington, D, 6,

ee mk: fe. wa weer Minto, Be cara
TOs ra

iaSSsEES Gales Ge Snes oat T  Ptectareh, Pour

a Wieties Reet Adres, LE wr.6 ny.

[CONTINUED TO PAGE 8)

rash

\


ORAS amet Ment

ena?

: race ®

TCeueTAT

CEUNraY

COUN

eon ra itr ar wETieT

TaETRO ART VET

CitT OF SECTE

70: (0. ARO VAY

[FROM: (WO. AND VR.

wun

OM: (HO, AND Va.) [TOs (0. ARO YR.D

TITY OF SECTION > COUNTRY

FTO: Te. aNd TR Tit Of Section

ROR: TwO. AKO VR

OF ALL KIMOS TO wiICH YOU HAVE BELONGED, GuxE® THAN RELIGIOUS
INCLUDE AMY ORGANIZATION HAVING HEACCCARTERS GR A BRANCH 48 &
BER OR TO WHICH YOU HAVE GIVEN SUPPST..

Cater

SocieTtes,
FOREIGN Ct

LAD. SOCUCTIGS MO OTaCE ORGANISATIONS pau
Foe ee eo ee Se tere ey SCC DGRESITE- GRE FIRES CUPEST SETETTES BAO ORT
SeiTiGaL PARTIES AnD Cato¥ UMlONSe
AV OF WICH TOU RAVE BEEH AMEME

couNTRY

ane Te Tad ROWE TF wate
Stema Chi _Biocrin ton, “ndiann. ek
ane STREET aD WORE eountaT
Phi Delta Phi : | » a 1
WANE | ‘STREET AND w UHBET tity State COUNTRY
rder of Colt a cei "
ane . SET ae nae aie SATE TouNTAT
Rotary “nternat tonal i Yaverille ky. SA
AME Y STPEET AND NUMGER city ‘STATE ‘COUNTRY
Ratl. 2ifie Association Various
hAME, e {STREET AMO MLMBE® os cy ‘STATE COUNTRY
Boy Scouts of America | Various
or : TSEREEY AnD WEEE cit? SINE conta
FSI Recreation Aszociation _ Waghincten, De Cy :
ane yaaer aS WREET wit STaE count
[SECTION 22. LANGUAGES-FOREIGN (STATE OEGSEE CF FACFICIENCY AS *SLIGHE*. SFAIG* O® “FLUENT®)
jranGUAGe Siow Tata wae
German | isnt
[LANGUAGE READ WRITE
TANCTACE as co
I
READ WRITE
READ WRITE
cay z RATE
TREAD WRITE



ree

Specialist. in counter Intellfzwace. goekat los:

-cvaluat ion.

SECTION 29. SPORTS AND HOBBIES

Fishing, hunting, firearms

SECTION 25. EWERGENCY ADDRESSEE

atcatignsMie

BLizabeth M, Harvey wife
rf Ceuta [HERON

SImekt and RUMP arr
N ashincton, DG oR a
SECTION 26. iNTORMATION AMD FINAL COMMENTS

NOTE? vou ARE iaFoaNEO Twat ei
TO MANE ANT ChANGES (C2 ANDITIUNS] 1M YOUR STATEMENTS THAT (QU MAY THIKx ALY ISABLE.

MICH MAT BE CISCOVERED 14 SUBSE OU

ARC THERE ANY UVFA/ORABLE INCIOCNTS (6 YOUR LIFE NOT WENTICNED A6QVE
$0, DESCRIBE, TF HOT,

TION, WHETHER TOU MERE DIRECTLY INVOLVED ORMOT, WHICH MIGRT ACQUIRE EXPLANATION,

OS

SECTION 27. CERTIFICATION

1 CERTIFY THAT THE FOREGOING ANSWERS ARE TRUE AND CORPECT TO TRE BEST OF MY RROWLECGE AND BELIEF, ANO 1 AGREE
THAT ANY [NTENTIOWAL MISSTATEMENT OR OMISSIOH AS TOA MATERIAL FACT WILL CONSTITUTE GROUNOS FOR MY IMMEDIATE OISMISSAL.

‘SIGNED “AT

Witness Signature oF Mpoticant



piesa Bartha Seipinbar 135 ANS Filseos “ pervtile, Tndiana

Teg Rest -Mayovilla,:. Ken‘

PARWTPAGs Drenan Re Harvey

: bed as ae ~ Flees Denville, Intiena

~ 1899 Places Denville, Indisna
RELATIVES
ABROADS tone.

‘EDWATION: — “Eley High School, Torre Haute, Indiana

; Datess 1928 to 1931 :

Dloomington,
Dates 1933 to 1937 © ‘Lip degree

EXPERIENCES —-Danvillo Gasette - kewspayer, Denville, Indiana
Dates: 2931 to 1933
India University, Bloomington, Indiana
Datess 1933 to 1937
Practice of Laz, io Kentucky
Dates 1937 to 1940 -

P.Delog Spoctal agents
Datess 190 to August 225 “wat
MILITARY ® tne
‘TRAVEL? Visited Canada for cn month in Soptexber 190 on vatation.
MARITAL: Married toa Elisabeth Howe KeIntire Harvey
_ STATUE Mirth: Fobruary 3, 1916 Place: Flemingsburg, Kentuoky

Dependents: bone bosides wife
Pajherein-lats domes Marvin MoIntire, Be.

Births. 1880 Flscet Yleming County, ys
Mothersin-laws Nannie Rose MoIntire < now deceased
Births ; Places Fleming County, Kye

Washington eddross and telephone numbers

2627 = 39H Shey Be Vo.
Washington, De Ce Tels ORdway 292),

Baorgenay Addreseses ire. Elisabeth M. Harvey 7
2627 = 39th Stes Ne We”
Washington, De Ce Tele OBteay 29h



Sesiinn 27 august 191”

RY STATIN om SILLA KOK) RARVEE : oe

Pmsiuis . pirtns ‘soptedier 13,15 Fleder Davitt, Tadtane
"Mag Rasa Mayor entuahy = ;

Births Gir Flsces Danville, Indiana
Mothers Sara Jewel King Harvey ee
Birth: fe Pleces Danville, Indisna

RELATIVES
ABROAD I: Bono
EDUCATION: Wiley High School, Terre Haute, Indiana
Datear 1928 to 1931.
Indiana University, Bloomington, ete
Dateas 1933 to 1937 dagres

‘EIPERIEXCE! ‘Manville Gasette - Newspaper, Danville, Indiana
: Dates: 1931 ‘to 1933
“ Indiam Univoreity, Bloomington, Indiana

Dates: 1933 to 1937

Practice of Lam, Maysville, Kentucky

Bates: 1937 to 1940

¥.B.I.) Spocial gens

Datest 191i0 to Auguat 22, 1947

MILITARY: = None.

‘TRAVEL? Visited Canada for one month in Septesber 1910 on vacation.
MARITAL Married tos Elisabeth Howe MoIntire Harvey
STATIS s Births Fobruary 3, 1916 Places ‘Flemingeburg, Kentucky

‘ Dependents: None benides wifo
Fathermin-lews Jamea Marvin MoIntire, 87.
Places Fleming County, Rye
Motherein-lavs Hannio Ross MoIntire ~ now deceased
Births 1686 Places Fleming County, Rye

Washington addresa and telephons numbers

2627 = 39th Sto, Me We |
Washington, Us Co Tel: ORdway 2914

Bnorgensy Addreaseot Mra. Elisabeth U. Harvey
. 2627 + 39th Ste, Ne Be :
Washington, De Co Tels ORdway 291


ABROADS
EDUCATION?

‘EXPERIENCES

rau tans
‘TRAVEL
MARITAL
STATUS s

iaiey Righ “Sehool, Terre Haute, Indiana
Dates 1928 to 1931
‘Indiana University, Moomington, Indiana
Dateot 1933 to 1937 LLB degree

* Danville Gesette - Semapaper, Danvi2e, Indiana

Dates: 1931 to 1993

Praotice of Lav, vayaville, Kentucky -
Datess 1937 to 1940 .

F.BeIey Spoctal Agont

Datest 1940 to August 22, ihr

None .

Viaited Canada for one month in Septenber 1910 on vacations

Married tos Zlisaboth Hows Kolntire Harvey
Birth) February 3, 1916 tre FinOt Fleaingsturgs Kentuaky

Father-in-lavt Janes Marvin WoIntire; Sr.
Birth: 1850 Plaset Fleming County, Ne
Motherin-levs Mannie Rose Malntire < now deceased
Birth: 1686 Placos Fleming County, Kye

Washington address end telephone murbert

Emergency Addresses: = Ers. EMeabeth te Harvey |

2627 = JMN Ste, Ne Wo
Waonington, Us Ce Tels onde 25h

‘

2627 = 39th Ste, Me Wo ! i
Washington, De Ce Tela, cAdway 294

‘SECRET


MILI TARY
‘TRAVELS.

BARITAL,
STATUS S

Foote Spacial agond
teat al ‘to August 22, ia

tone
Visited Canada for one month in Soptembar’1910 on vacation.

Karvied to1 Elisabeth How Molntire Harvey
Birth? Fobruary J, fa Places Flemingsturg, Kentucky

Patherdn-laws Jauea Marvin Mointires Sts

; Births 1880 Plage! Flaming Countyy Rye

Mother-dn-los; Menrde Reag MoIntire ~ now deceased

+ phrtha 1686 Plecot Fleaing Countyy Hye

Washington eddies and telsphone mucbers

2627 © 39h Shey He Wi
Washington, De Ge Tole ORdauy 290

Buorgency Addressee: Mra. Elisabeth M, Harvey

2627 = 39th Ste, He We :
¥ashington, De Co «Tels Ofdway 2904

SECRET



Subject:

To: cro ~ i
‘\.. Invest igat lon’ directed: by

2. Sources of information?. ogo --

3. Remarks

4. Recommendation:

gyn yect
COMMENDED THONG
’ erqusey if PPROVA gOATURY nNForse 7 ON AT OME
2 eect
Vie WAIVED!
ae DATE. WwTeR NT eaves UPON OUTY amit

ee agove DATE, THIS approved, OF!

ES By. & KC LE:
Security Orficer

ROBSRT He CUNVINCHAN

-€Cy Mite Judson ‘He Lightsey 1 .

CONFIDENTIAL

Orr Sh A} ; on

‘38108

“CONFIDENTIAL” >

ue


A compiste end ‘thorough investigation has been condi

ad.
on this employee and he was’ found suitable for employment in this

agency.



In Heply ‘to your wemorardiar thia 13 to-advisé that subject medts.”

the current requirements for” cryptographic edearance and. is ‘approved. for
such duties as of this date. H

EP, Geiss: 14,



