|104-10296-10104) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F.,KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

ie ie 27 Pets sicy 1961
: - >
SUTVECT: Alleged Batistianos Signed up for the “amps. WL ae ae

5 Ys Manolo RAY telephoned me Saturiay night to tell me that he had heard

from his Miami contact that ‘a nusker of Batistianos had been recruited for

training in the "camps" and some had already been flown to the camp, He said
: he was sure

he understood this resulted from inaiequate checking and thit/the presence

tioned.

‘of these people at the camps could cause considerable trouble, Ht

only one nase - Cruz Vidal - but said he would seck additional info, Following
‘Manolo's call I phoned Gob Reynsily)sni passed the info on to him. He was al-

“ready well aware of the problem ani was tsking remedial action.

2. On Sunday night, 26 Fetruary, Manolo called me again, This time he

read-to me over the phone the nazes of (1) a number of alleged undesirables tho
: had been recruited and dispatched (2) a number who have signed up by who as yet
have not been accepted and (3) names of Seople who are involved in the recruiting
without necessarily implicating them in any questionable activity:

A, Those recruited and disratched.

1, Rafael Soler Puig
2. Remiro de 1a Fe (trs, of Smnesto)
i 473. Candido Mora Morales ~ (zangster)
Ah, Carlos Yanez {nephew of Santiago Rey)
5. Armando Galles Menendes (tely cuavd of Santiago Rey).
1,6, Harry Perez (capitain in Satista's police)
7. Felix Birubides (formerly of the S14)

B, Those who have reris:ered for training

1. Rolardo Masferrer
2, fnu Martin Peres
3. Cruz Vidal
4. Gen. Diaz Tamayo
5. Col. Ceferino Rririgues
6. Maj. Montero Duque
7. fru Montero Diaz
VB. Ex-Col. Martin Suares
9. Jesus Vonzaler cartes
nenber of "la or:
10, Gol, Carlos San Nirtin
1L, Sgt. Roberto: Hercaxtes Cruzat(Z) = man who minlered
Dr. Escalona :

C.- Connected with Recruiting

S Sxtrano
4 gangster



Dagoterto Darles (works in Registr-*

Antonio Pedraja = ex-Ratista Ufficaal

Carlos Varas:- bro-titcbot of Col, Cosme Varas

Dr. Antonio Laat Forras = ex-Director of Mscorra during
Batiota regine ~ a crook

American called "Jinmy* - who is "second chief of travm
base.” i:

Folix Gutierrez - used to work for Fidel during Batista
regime= now 2nd man to Sanjenio



100 of 105

hutps://asc-app-01:7002/jfk/boxes/IFK64-28/coversheets

Lut

OCUMENT

SECRET

l

Box Number: JFK64-28

Source Number: 104-10296-10110
CADRE Ref ID: C00562975

Pub Date: 02/14/1961

_ Pages: 2

C00562975
104-1 -10110 .

0296-1011
SECRET

1/12/2015 1:54 PM


ASCROHUMED

MAR 1 1S6t

\
\
L

[ DOCLNENT MICROFILM SERVICE |
nw J

++ Birestor 7"
Feder=1 Muresu of Investigrtio” y¢

ee et

‘ “trent nr. 3. J. P c
VY entions Mr. epioh 4 L
7 ~N
ROM 4 Demty Director (Pleas)
a sf P any
u SUNELT 1 Moerdo Cuthel VORLPS \severrete] “AC COMA

aX

ON of KAaade

Hamas Ritcaen

Le Reference 1a ade to your neworendue, dnved 23 Decemor 1960,
eatitled “oubsn Intellizence retivitias in the United St-tos,* fa which

surject. provided _infernst
2. Regarding referenced sanorendus, the fol

oa tha vuhsa G-2 orgeate tien: wt

Loving deta, d-tod

Jeoucry 1961, wea provided by e frirly reli-ple sounss ‘vbo hes axtensive

contacts in Cubsn onlgre: eiroles 1a the Hiral, F

frre loce tod ink Qeuer Prive, bones

y'ssorz. The following neahers of
renortedly worwyrecelyiug “treiaings

Reuon Corloe “PRULN Kantere)
Franciage”c'! iGO Seavedr@ 2
Rol-ndc/POR*LFS (in werreta/
Rohe! ‘U0!
TutaZPURRTKS 6f B
Heotow ORF HO (Goass Los]? A

Diopiaig/SUsRRA YA,
radii SaMARMDELA Ales Con

lorddn «rent

the Movintento Revolucton-rio del Pushlo (MRP)
hee estebLiangd «ailitery treiniag ovp_ on. *

lord, tloride,

MET spout four blocks froa a fora ovued hy Reto
the MRP

aS [lwrres| 201-229 206

D. On 10 Jnmery 1961, Source roported thet the WP Eee wea

pleaning to move to rnother traintag #1te soon.

Gourde atated he would

eode-vor to detarnine the Locrtion of tha new Aron.

@



a Seenel

3. Your attention 19 invited to the ante of Rolando MORILES
Hevnrreto, above, vho mry possibly be identical to the Ricardo *aibel

WORILES Arvarrete of your monornnium,

+. The above informition has been unde available by represeatetived
of this ‘gency to the Mirat Field Office of the Federal Burera of

Investigation.

€805-9/169)259
wife 00
6 February 1961

Distribution:
Orig & 1 > Addreasee

7 Ca/Rea
i eine
3. Me

Based on: UFGA 616, 13. Jemsry 19%)

[PPC OVD
LEAL CL
