# 104-10070-10198

## Page 1

1104-10070-10198

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

KAFOR

IFY AIR OS SEA FOXOM).

CLASSIFICATION

20

28-20413

DATE: _ 2410009195

TO

FROM :

Gios of Station, Holind)

SUBJECT: GENERM - VACCIEZ/OFERATIONS

SPECIFIC- REDCAP - BOlatiOna botcean GrItorI GOLUB and NAGCING/1)

ACTION; For information chiy

Lo On 22 Jamary Branday CaU VACCIT/ll ei the cubicot of Dil-

OsTes cad DIRA03625 and La vill raport ooparataly on theco topics.

Howaves, during tha convorratica that falloted VACCus/1) said that

ia palace) called hia an innited bin to lunch do to doco froa tim

masad to imarcos ca vacanta/Itten to ranages to leap infoscal ci

cantala thingo cron thouga vanch/ll coocale balp bin, by may of

pasting thio pons corcoa, ho taco a puber al otascarato:

Lo Lasty Chat LaSta EAnA21 (tora & July 1821 a caoLCous

cootsats and indus liai ca anarica inscrrogated thaco tan 20 400-

ij La La. Limonican Captado (G2I00 could not recalal tho rumo)

Esping tracis of la serioda in lolalail.

lio laara that thera ta a Casting C3 Coactiravias

Duo Lorida calitan baa 25 percoa canno for taca an

Fielcirt altacaga cady " crosas in tho Coate Digleasieros

Cobo Ejostio

tho kapulcan military cubacho, in tho u

cão callo tho suota for lorican condonag la Finlana

2 AS NAGONS/LEA

Monad cau dies, ta talind chors chan.

Lo casa ho caricanty cal intoja to bocuzza su coperto tas to Goriods

havo ca agrat ta laagancadas

(1392122233

mals only Fluian end Smalan) Canuela lager ho caly Cous

28-5-4153

10110-F08.71

к15S, 51-23А

fan Cutt 49-28

9047

---

## Page 2

14-00000

KAPOK

OrtIA -

• 3127

Pego -

2

WESTERBInG whothor ho had aay Amorican frionds and tho latter said that

1o did not. lcro VACCInE/Drearised,

"I seal quito puro that ty men

would toll ta if they hed any Westorn contacta, but this 10' a freo

country end I told GOLUB so.

GOLUB was conduhat ourpriced bacauce ho

thought any ouch contact vould hava to bo approved in advanco.

I'n protty curo i would know if my men wore ongaged in any chady con

vithcat boing toro crocifie.

wo intend to adviso Vics to go very.

CLOWly vich VACCIND/40

KARICO SE/N

3. In talking about itca (ö), vnccmm/1) cald COLUB had coled bia

thothor ho lnow the othor Scandinavlaz chiolo wall. To thâs VACCINE/A

had roplica,: 10s courco and caded that ha has lnaun then fos 15 scaro.

[VACCI/vent on to cay that leuù opsing shea Sovict olficial in Fino

Tend toro rocolving IiS Lateraturo via the maizo Suca Suscen, COLUD BaL

casa to lin and astia vacater lo could do cryting vita dia suedos chaut

COLD Lot rotarned

to into cubjoet und reportod las ballings had coaced.

No adleed racchar

VACCILa/1) cha balisod to Enyono in suaden cLoud ta cUtOS, NANCIa/A

rooponded the ho had; da fect lo hed tallad to uno parcoas.

COLUD

na0 profuso in lia thanke cal cold thai lt 10 6 G5cas cuop fca Lảo

caroos that ho ulal ba ablo to roport to laccou tact la bao onouga li

fluonco rich vacche/s/do get a job laho this talon coro 0f.

CozuB cided end [vaccha/a/ralatod to traaloy ulth o laugi, so vill radea

VACCINE/A/tO a 1LGA lOVOl Of COtOca 20 FODCONO

lio failed to cention that dù cao point 2a tro talL VACCInLy

codd ho tool COLUD to locis for having interesto noû conclotont ulch a

caplonato jou.

etho hagacau 2atcl2igonao cflicer

Uno Soviet Union Lao in Finicadia COLUB proccocod thas lia Lateracto

toro paroly ciplomato otal lat lo bad no othar thea tormal concules

EVACOE/1/ collogaad cold to branloy, fos coarco, that 10

balonGyi (FaGa trarolatual).

So la as caditional commont to the cavercation es tho LaS Eatera

COLD appearod highly pleased and remarked the luscow had rocently cold

hin that hio raporting ins far botter then cycling suhavey had Cuao.

NOTIONS

cland Prailis

Roland 3. Eramloy

2le January 1953

D1curlbat1on?

5 - 18

2 - Holo/

58+3.443

---

