# 104-10096-10238

## Page 1

104-10096-102387-71 MF

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 .

ÇASLE SEC DISSEM BY 22 PER

TOTAL COPIES/

16-5 RUN BY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHE

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROL

STAFFE SUE

PRECEDEN

ADVANCE COPY ISSUEDISLOTTED

BY

AT

ACTION UNIT

AFG

VR. D.DOY 1P/0mS,

C14

EP5/EGZ, EURE LA 8

SET

T 211787

EI AZ 52

PAGE @1

2

3

TOR: 292215Z SEP 77

2011,

417464

[GNVA J 35618

SE

291910Z SEP 77 STAFF

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CI TE

20

[GENEV A]35 610

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROCRAM

20-1

TO:

IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE LONDON.

7

NI ACT DIRECTOR

UNINTEL ZIBEI.

1. ON 29 SEPT 77 AT 1838 HOURS LOCAL ONE GARY VAN DYK,

WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS A BRITISH SUBJECT WHO WAS BORN

IN JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA ON 25 MAY 1936 AND WHO SAID

HE IS A LITERARY AGENT SY PROFESSION AND RESIDES AT 62

REDKNOLL WALK, CHELSEA, SWÖS, LONDON WALKED INTO U.S.

MISS ION,

SUBJECT WHO IS STAYING AT HOTEL AMAT IN

GENEVA ORIGINALLY

CONTACTED DOM SORENSON WHO ASKED THAT[COS INTERVIEW HIM.

2, SUBJECT GAVE THE FOLLOWING STORY WHICH ADMITTEDLY APPEARS

DISUDINTED BUT MAY MAKE SENSE TO AFRICA DIVISION, ONE REASON

FOR INCOHERENGY IS THAT SUBJECT WAS CONCERNED ABOUT THE

STORY LEAKING TO OUTSIDERS I,E. THE PRESS AND WAS VERY RETICENT

•ABOUT NAMING NAMES OR DATES:

A• IN JUNE 1977 FRANK STURGIS SPRESUMABLY SAME PERSON OF -

WATERGATE FÄME, COME TO LONDON AND CONTACTED AN

RETURN TO CIA

UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER UF FNLA. • THROUGH LATTER, STURGIS Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Im)

---

## Page 2

4-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY -

_PER

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER •

ISSUING

OFFICE IS

PROMIS

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

BY

AT

STAFF

RF. FILE..

VR.

N

F

ACTION #

T 211787

EL AZ 52

FAGE D2

TOR: 292015Z SEP 77

20-

IN,

417464

[GNVA] 35610

HOPED TO MEET HOLDEN ROBERTO, SUBJECT LEARNED OF THIS

APPROACH AND SINCE SUBJECT SAYS HE IS A CLOSE FRIEND

AND SUPPORTER DE DANIEL 61 PENDA,. HE PUT STURGIS IN TOUCH

WITH VICTOR FERNANDEZ. SUBJECT SAYS THAT AT THAT TIME

HE DID NOT KNOW WHO FRANK-STURGIS WAS.

: B. VICTOR FERNANDEZ WAS IDENTIFIED AS ONE OF THE PERSONS

INVOLVED IN THE ABORTIVE COUP OF MAY 1977 IN ANGOLA.

STURGIS TOLD FERNANDEZ THAT HE REPRESENTED A GROUP OF

CUBAN EXILES AND WAS IN A POSITION TO MAKE AVAILABLE ¿OBO

ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS WHO WOULD'GO TO ANGOLA TO PARTICIPATE

IN ANOTHER COUP TO OVERTHROW THE CURRENT ANGOL AN REGIME.

C. STURGIS AND FERNANDEZ REPORTEDLY SIGNED AN AGREEMENT

IN LONDON WHEREBY STURGIS PLEDGED FINANCIAL LANPIGILZTARMISO A WORS

SUPPORT SACCORDING TO SUBJECT AFROM SOME LAT INGUNERACANE POT 171S

GOVERNMENTS) AND

AGREED AS TO WHO THE NEW MEMBERS. OF THE GOVERN-

_ MENT IN EXILE SI.E. ANGOLAD WOULD BE.

55

D. GIPENDA. WHO AT THE TIME WAS IN LONDON, WAS SUSPIGIOUS

OF STURGIS BUT WENT ALONG WITH FERNANDEZ' GETTING HELP FROM

STURGIS. GIPENDA THEN WENT TO GENEVA WHERE HE HAS BEEN ÉVER

SINCE IN AMAT HOTEL. GIPENDA HAS BEEN WAITING AROUND, ACCORDING

SECRET

---

## Page 3

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY_

_PER_

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

ADVANCE COPY ISSUEDISLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF.

FILE."

N

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

•UN BY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER.

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHII

BY

AT

ST AFF.

VR.

2

ACTION #

T 211787

EJ AR 52

PAGE D3

TOR: 292015Z SEP 77

IN

417464

_GN VA 35610

TO SUBJECT, TO SPEAK TO MOBUTU, WHO AS HOS KNOWS

IS. CURRENTLY

IN SWITZERLAND, SUS JECT

SAID THAT THE GIPENDA/MOBUTU TALK

WILL TAKE PLACE IN NEXT FEW DAYS.

E• MEANWHILE GIPENDA AND SUBJECT AND POSSIBLY OTHERS HAVE RUN.

UP A GRADER FRANG CUSS 25, D00) HOTEL BILL AT AMAT HOTEL AND

EVIDENTLY THE HOTEL MANAGEMENT PLANS TO CALL THE POLICE IN

THE NEXT DAY OR SO IF BILL IS NOT PAID.

F. SUBJECT BROUGHT WITH HIM A FILE OF XEROXED DOCUMENTS

IN A LOOSE LEAF NOTEBOOK WHICH HE FLEETINGLY

EXHIBITED, THERE WERE SEVERÄL PHOTOS OF SUBJECT IN

CAMOUFLAGED JUNGLE DRESS IN A JUNGLE, A PHOTO OF A PERSON

SIMILARLY DRESSED WHUM SUBJECT IDENTIFIED AS FERNANDEZ AND

LISTS OF EQUIPMENT AND OTHER MATERIAL WHICH SUBJECT SAID WAS

SENT BY SOVIETS TO CUBAN FORCES IN ANGOLA. ACCORDING

TO SUBJECT, THIS INTELLIGENCE WAS SENT OUT BY MPLA MEMBERS

STILL IN ANGOLA,

: •

• G. SUSJECT SAID THAT ANOTHER COUP AGAINST ANGOLAN GOVERNMENT

IS CURRENTLY BEING PLOTTED AND, IF SUCCESSFUL, PLOTTERS. WANT

GI PENDA TO BE THE NATIONAL LEADER AND NOT HOLDEN ROBERTO

SUBJECT APPEARS STRONGLY ANTI-HOLDEN ROBERTO AND SAVIMBA.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

4-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY.

_PER.

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED..

IDVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF.

FILE:

ACTION #

T 211787

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET.

RUN BY

BY

AT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHI

STAFF

VR.

2

3

EL AD 52

PAGE D4

TOR: 292015Z SEP 77

IN 917464

20-11

[GNVA ] 35.610

HO SUBJECT DID NOT MAKE ANY PITCH FOR MONEY OR ANY OTHER REQUEST

BUT SAID HE WOULD LIKE SOMEONE FROM WASHINGTON WHO WAS FAMILIAR

WITH ANGOLAN MATTERS TO COME TO GENEVA SOONEST TO SPEAK WITH

GIPENDA IF WE WANTED TOGEARN MORE •

3. IN RESPONSE TU COS JOUESTION, SUBJECT SAID HE WAS NOT A

MERCENARY BUT HE WANTED AS A FORMER SOUTH AFRICAN TO SEE

CURRENT ANGOLAN REGIME THROWN CUT ALONG WITH THE CUBANS. IN SPITE

_OF SUBJECT'S STATEMENT THAT HE DOES NOT WANT ANY MONEY OR DID HE

COME TO MISSION TO SELL INFORMATION, IT IS OBVIOUS SUBJECT AND

GIPENDA ARE OUT OF MONEY: SUBJECT WENT TO EXCEPTIONAL LENGTHS TO

BE ASSURED THAT ABOVE INFORMATION WOULD NOT LEAK; HE APPEARS TO BE

A VERY WELL-EDUCATED, COHERENT, SOFT-SPOKEN INDIVIDUAL IN SPITE

OF THE FOREGOING STORY. HE IS ABOUT. 6 FEET THREE INCHES TALL!

210 POUNDS, DARK BROWN HAIR WORK STYLISHLY LONG, LONG FACE, CLEAN

SHAVEN•: SMOKES ÈRITISH CIGARETTES, AND SPEAKS WITH EITHER A SOUTH

AFRICANER AUSTRALIAN ACCENT:

i 4, [COSITOLD SUBJECT THAT HE WOULD PASS ALONG SUBJECT'S STORY

-..

BUT IT WAS HARDLY LIKELE THAT ANYONE WOULD COME FORWARD TO PAY

A 825.000 HOTEL BILL. [COS)SAID HE HAD HEARD OF FRANK STURGIS BEFOME

AND IT APPEARS THAT HE MAY HAVE SOLD FERNANDEZ AND SUBJECT A BILL

SECRET

---

## Page 5

4-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM Er.

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

_PER

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF. FILE.

N

F

ACTION #

T 211787

EL AD 52

TOTAL CÓPIES

SECRET

z

UN BY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHE

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROT

STAFF

VR.

2

3

4

6

PAGE 25-05

TOR: 2920.15Z SEP 77

20-477469

IGNVA /

35618

OF GOODS• NO COMMITMENTS OR ANY PROMISES WERE MADE TO SUBJECT NOR

at.

DID SUBJECT ATTEMPT TO ASCERTAIN

FOS'S) IDENTITY OR NATURE OF HIS

WORK.

•5. WOULD APPRECIATE ASAP HGS EVALUATION OF SUBJECT'S

STORY AS SKETCHY AND DISJOINTED AS IT SOUNDS, IF

HOS HAS AF DIVISION OFFIGER IN NEARBY COUNTRY. WHO FAMILIAR

WITH ANGOLAS ADVISE IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SEND HIM TO GENEVA

FOR FURTHER DE BRIEFING OF SUBJECT,

6, FILE DEFER.

E2 IMPDET

5

RET

In

---

