# 104-10193-10069

## Page 1

104-10193-10069

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA HLAUQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMITTÉE ON ASSISSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NÜNIBER/VOLUNE:

Burke, William

P. Ir

01.775

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

1947 - 1962

CS Files

ROOM: 5 E 13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

NONE

DATE

RECEIVED

2:120

22004,28

2:4$

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NANE)

Cine Keit

DANdAROWAV

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Chich 1O0l

an Hardway!

BURKE WILLIAM P..

TERRYWATED SE

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

SINNED FIRM SE

SayiNd Nartmber 1958

INSECTER -ENVICE COMMISSION

i MARTER 1-5 pier

FiL NAME OR-EMPLOYLE

AGENCY CERTIFICATION OF INSURANCE STATUS

Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Act of 1954

¿ DATE DE BIRIN (MUNIM, DAY, YEAR)

Burke

S. CHECKITHE REASCIN FOR TERMINATING INSURANCE

William

P.. Jr.

October 22;

1900

!: D

SEPARATED

(6)

RETIRED

TAIN.

CIVIL- SERVICE

YES

TIME

APPITANI $001

RELINEMENI?

NO.

18%.

: 12

" MONINS

NUV.PAY

STATUS

(8).

¿MEER AIFMDERIATE BOA

4. 34, UISILMATION DE IENLIICIARY

CURRENT

3. 8.39 ATTACHED

CURRENT

AGENLY

11.0

'S-F 3d' 1S

FILF: IN

PERSUNNEL.

NiJIE:

IF EMPIOVEE (A) DIED OR (B) IS RETIRING OR RECEIVING MEDRAL EMPIOYERS COMPENSATIÓN UNDER GINOITIONS ENTITLING MIM TO RETAIN

PREE LIFE INSUDANCE, ATIACH CURRINIS F, 34, IF ANY, TO URICIPAL 5 F, DO AND CHECK POR A IS: LN RIGINAL AND ALL COPIES OR S F

SO, IF NO CURRENES F. SA IS ON FILE.

CHECK BOX A IN. IN ALL DIMER CASES, SHOW WHEIMER DE NNE CUNNINO S. F.'SE IS ON FILE AY

CHICHIPIG

BOR'D ILI CALL A CURRENT & F. F. IS ONE INAI MAS'NOS BEEN CANCLED BY ENVICTEE. OR AUTUMALICALLY BY PRANSIER OR

FRIOR TERMINATION

OF INSURANCE.

CArE OF EVLPiT CHECKED IN MEM 3

¡NON:H, DAY, YEAR,

ANNUAL COMRSALION CA RACONVE ANNUA

HOURLY.

PISCENORK

RATE 10

RATE; ON DATE IN ITEM S.

CAlE DE NINTICE OF CONVINSION

POISILICE ISE SSI TO EMPLOYEE

inter. 18T.101

October 27, 1962

$7..925.00 PER ANNUM

MACINUTE THAT

THE ALOVE DONATION M4S BEEN ONTAINID PAULA,

AriD

CORRECTLY REFLECIS -DARICIAL RECONNS,

ANU

INNE THE CArLOYEE

NAMED WAS COVERED BY FEUERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LINE IN'UHANCE ON THE DATE SHOWN IN ITEMS. ISIGN ORIGINAL ONLY)

h..

(Parsonal signature l aurhorized a

Se Defelse

Tyso name of sutherired agoney officel)

Central Intelligence Agency

(florne of agoner)

1T DEC 195:

Inpurance Officer - Alternate

430 E St. N. W.. Washingtes 25. D.C

SEE OTHEN SIDE

FOK

INSTRUCTIONS TO EMPLOYING AGENCY

'PARTS - FIlE COPY

---

## Page 3

-:

31 СС: 62

SECRET

(shen Filled la)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

LOEF

I, SERIAL NUMBER

8. NAME. (LAST-F18ST MIDDLE)

001775

BURKE WILLIAM PUR

"Э. МАТОВЕ ОД РЕ

NEL ACTION

RETIRENENT (OPTIONAL!

TUNDS

y TO

88 10 18

GHATION

DDI

CONTACT. DIVISION

U.S. FIELD

NEW ORLEANS OFFICE

1I. POSITION TIME

10 CONTACT

T4. CLASSIFICATION SCMEDULE (65, 1B: 816.)

GS

1S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0132.21

18.. REMARKS

EFFECTITE BATE

S. CATEGORY OF EMPIOYMENT

10.27

2

REQULAR

T. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE"

TE. ESE OR OTMER LEGAL AUTHORITY

3242 2221 4000

10. LOCATION 0E OFFICIAL STATIONE

NEW ORLEANS, LA.

I2 POSITION MENDER

18 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION'

0195

16 GRADE AND STEP

15 8

OC

17 SALARY OR RATE

17325

19, ACTION: 52. Eagiay

CODE

Coda

45

10

28. MTE EXPIRES

21.

OFFICE CODING

29

SPECIAL

REFERENCE

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

22. STATION

CODE

23. INTEGREE

24. Mapers

CODE

Colo

DS. DATE OF SIRIN

ALPHADEVIC

04.

vR.

10 122,00

RETIREMENT DATA

CODE

31. SEPARAIION

32. CORRECTION: CANCELLATION DATA

T764

но

DA.

"R.

¡20. DATE OF GRADE

DA

29. CATE OF LEI

J3 SECURITY

REO NO.

JA. SEX

EOD DATA

• МОМЕ

1S. VET. PRESERETCE

38. SERV. COMP DATE

DA

37. LONG

COMP.

DATE

13H0000

38 CAREER CATEGORY

CoDe

SAR

PHOV

BESU

16 MP

39.

cock

FEGLI / HEALTH INSUBANCE

O . MAINER

MIALIM INA CODE

1 • TES

10. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

PREVIDUS GOVERHMENT SERVICE DATA

O. TO PRSVIOUSSERVICE

• MO BARAX IN SERVICE

PRAX IN SIRVICE ILESS THAN I VI

CAN IN SERVICE IMORE THAN SYS

47. LEAVE CA! 13.

CODE

FEDERAL LAX DATA

EXECUTRO; CODE

I NO TRREIEMPTIONS

44.

FORM BARCUTED

STATE TAX DATA

1 6008

¡NO SAX STATECODE

No

а. но

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

POSTED

11-2-62 Yu

1150

Uso Provious

Edition

SECH

FROUP I

(857.888 Iron 8c10aa0e

005'85900638.08

14.01)

(When Fulled In)

1.'

---

## Page 4

14-00000

114111

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

2 MAME ¡LASI -PIRST M1DOLE)

00: 775

CURRE WILLIAMP JH

MATURE D8 PEASONNEL ACTION

FITIRENLOT (EPTIONA.

FUNDS

¡' то «8

‹ 10 V

DESIGMATIONS

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARSIABLE

¿ & USE OR GINIA LEGAL AUTHORITY

3243

10. 1061110H 0F

222

88. 8031810N 81848

18. POSITION NUMBER

IC EGATALT

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (65, 18, 016)

GS

1S. OCCOPA11OMA1 SERIES

0132.21

16. 6RA0E AND STEP

19 o

IP. SALARY 08 RATE

17:320

18. REMARTS

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

Form

1150

Use Provious

Edition

*= 1

---

## Page 5

4.00000

l'Erecuira drasin

2 # ĐСT 1962

A1r.

Williani 8. Dardé

6:80 Salat Carties treaso

Mey Urloaze 19, Airlaidas

DeBr Ms. Barko:

As you bring to a ciase aightaen youra di serrice 80 your

country, l easi so fois your irreada audi co-markora in sioning

you mall aod bapung lass pus find the goare aread silor wie

In Rades lie e insticaliana alíarts aí tany pasplo lo do tha

importani part d this igasey. You laava miss die kastledgs

¡liat yós have parsosals eonirrouted diucà to das success 1a

carrying dus due missias, Your faishuel and loyal support las

maaauroó ya sa the higa dealo and traditiona di thu t'ederal

догука.

May laspress so joa my appreciasian and griend tapedst

mishes ua lue yeus a disrad.

siacoraly,

(Signed) JOHN A. NeCONE

down A. Meliose

Director

Distribution:

U - Addressee

1 . DCI

1- DDCI

is/ tiarry W. Litrie, Jr.

d - Difere

Originator?

i - C/BUD. iji

-ÜPE

- DirecT 1963600008

1 - SC8 Retirement. d

1 - DC/LABIS

Sug

1 - BCB Reader uitoncur:

VC/ EN3/55

UP/BSD/Rsiaga:8r:t (18 Úcrabes 1962)

19 OCT 1953

---

## Page 6

4.0000

LUS

ENORAMOUN

ĐẠTEO

1 AUGUST

1:54.

N: 'E

BURKE WILLIANPUR

SERTIL

301773

ORGA FUNOS GREST SALARY CASST SALARY

22500

180 515910

71 7925

віл.к..

---

## Page 7

CIA ENTERMAL USE UNLY

FILE:

REPORT OF MONOR AÑD MERIT AWARDS BOARO

CATE

2 October 1962

The Honor and Merit Afards Board having considered a recommendation that:

MANE:

POSITION TITLE

BURKE,

William

PRESENT GRADE

OFFICE ASSIGNED TO

Patrick,

'JI.

Chief, New Crleans Field Office

STAT TON

GS -13

DOI/OQ

New Orleans

BE ANAROLO!

Intelligence Modal of Merit

_FOR MEROIC ACTION. ON.

XE FOR MERITORIOUS ACMIEVEMENT OR SERVICE DURING THE PERIOO

X APPROVES iNE RECOMMENDÁTION

JAPPROVES, OUT IN LIEU TMEREOF, RECOMMENOS THE AWARD OF:

CITATION

EJOISAPPROVES THE RECOMMENDATIÓN

Mr. Willlam P. Burke, Jr., lu hereby awarded the Intelli-

gence Medal óf Merit for hia outstanding service to the Central

Intelligence Agency,, As Chief of the New Orleana Field Office

since its inception in 1947, Mr. Burke labored unceasingly In

developing programs which have produced important Information

on a continuing basla.. In his role al Agency represontative, be

has been successful in establishing relatlonshipa which have

furthered the miasion of the Agency and enhanced ita reputation

In his role as office chief, ho had provided leader-

ship of the higheat order to hie associates, and leavea behind him

a logacy, of achievement in keeping with the best traditions of

sorvice to the United States.

(Recommendation approved by DD/I on 14 September 1962)

REASONS FOR DISAPPROVAL OF RECOMMENDED AWARD

APPROVED

Nap

DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

NeT 1S:2

un, 382 ve

SIGNATURE

/s/ Harry W. Little, Jr.

TYPEO MAME OF CHAIRMAN, MOMOR AND MERIT ANAROS BOARD

HARRY V. LITILE, JR.

SIGNATURE

/S:1/ Retert M. Esiner

TYPED NAME OF RECORDER

- ROBERI M. GAYNOR

CiA INTERNAL USE CALY

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

DATE PREPARIO

14 deplember 1y6?

1I •ISELY

• ITTS V

MATINE OF PERSÓNNEL -ACTION

BURKE, WiLlIsa Pi, Jr.

что v

CE TO Y

DESIGNATIONS

у то ст.

CP TO CF

CREAT

DDI/00

Cartact Division

U.s. Field

New Orleans Office.

• EFFICTIVE DATE REQUESTED S. CATEGORY OF IMPLOYMENI

10

%: COST CENTER TO. CHARCE.

ABLE

3242-2221-4000

10: LOCATION DF OFFICIAL STATION

Regular

GAL AUTHORITY (Completed

fica. ol Personne

New Orleans, La.

1I. POSITICNTITLE IE Coitait

Intetitgence Off'teer,

crates

18: POSITION NUMBER

: K 0195

18, CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, OIE.): 15, OGGUPATIONAL SERIES

18.: GRADE AND STEP

0132.21.

; 15-8

•IS. CARIER SERVICE DESIGMATION

OC

17. SALARY OR RATE

115,810

21/25

18. REMARA:

so Fayzoli; Security

Subjra: Is ru-empioyable.

DIGNITIRE, DE REQUESTIGE CATIALAI

M. 'ASHCRAFT"

inier. caltact Division,

00

SPICE KELOW FOS

DATE SIGNED

30dct62

EXCLUSIVE USE

SO. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING| DATE SIGME

J. LAROCCUS,

starteer!

Acting dasisianE Dircitor, 00

30 Oct 1962

THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

SATIATRIM:

us i

Ta.

27, DA1E GE 1E1

04,

101321211

REFEREN-E

COD!

13. SECURITY

136, SER

ако. ис.

35.

190.147

£1,00,0,0

13. CAREER CATIGUSY

CAR/RESY

PAOY/TEM?

CroF

cort

FOD DATA

185.910:6

jali'a cas coor

DU. S0CIAL SECRITY MD.

PENINS ENTERENE SERVICE DATA

SEDIOR: TAN CATA

STALL TAR DATA

ccor

SERVICE

no sEarCE (2885 TReS 3 Y8S)

"ES

P: ERECUED

"rs

canistate cost

85, POSITIDO ISATROL CERTIFICATION

«в.

U.P.

APPROVAL

Fo leggen Pyon

DATE APPROVED

FORM

1. 82 1152

1-12 Xa

11930.

3, 0r.M6s

SECRET

i ate 190

---

## Page 9

14-0000

RESIGN EFFECTIVE

SECRET

filleil

EMPLOYEE NOTICE OF RESIGNATION

_ FOR THE POLLOSING REASON,

he pride de Me. Hai.

Ver 31

2 03PM -62

WORKING DAY

DATE SIGNTO.

SIGNATURE OF MPLOVEI

FORMARO COMMUMICATIONS.

INCLUDINÓ SALAA! ÉNICAS AÑO DOMOS, TO THÈ POLLOMINO ADORESS (STADeR, SERRAR, CAPY, BiRo, Seate)

Items 1 thru 7?

and

Iteas 9 thru 18a)

Item 5

Item 9

INSTRUCTIONS

The initisting office should fill in each of the réferenced items.

tems Scari? and 9 thru 10 require intormatich which pertains onl

the sees sequested, end nor to the current statua os the era

wiless specifie

"Category is Inployment" should show one of the following entries:

Regular

Summer

WAE

Part Time

Detail Out.

Consultant

Temporary

Detail In

• Military

Temporaz? • Fart Time

"Organisational Designations" should show all levels of organization

pertinent to identifying the location of the position:

EE MaJor conver statrector, Deputy Director, eto.)

Oftice, Major Staff

Divisic: or Staff (subordinate to first line)

Item 11

-

"Position Title" should reflect the standard schrevlated title given

n the sos: current edition of the Positen Control Fegister or re

orted on Fors 261, Staffing Complement Change Authorization

item 185 - Sigrature shold be that of the official authorized to approve for

the Carzer Service to which the employee belorss.

ander entre deer Sered hound on aer demise shard aurore

ROUTING - The original only on this form will be forwarded to the crice of Personnel

In the case of requests

the Ofiice of Security or the Office of the Comptroller, me copy only will te

sent to the Offisols) concerned.

SECRET

---

## Page 10

ріді, змокла по..

02:2.25

MANI: (6O01-P(P01.960810)

•SERVICK

r

1321907

OTHER STATUS

Rejected.

салов

SECRET

(eren P0llo1 10)

BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE (PART () SCD: 15 JUL 1944

DATE DE BIRPN

CONORVITT СОЦР. ОЛТА

Ot 1900

18 Sep 1947

P: US MATURALISATION DATEIDI

NA

• seouse

•NA

TO LAIT VIО.ПРТ.

0ct: 1957:

DUTY:

CIA

QUAL.

Us

roR.

Field

Anoual

NETIRRO:

sen.

IDI PROFESSIONAL TEST DATe

wul

None

la. Lançunor

ARTITUDE

TEBT DATE

None

1929-12

soit Imployed, New Orlonne, In - Lanyer

1042-45 Milltnry Sarvien, US Mnrtrie Corpo, Mrjor - Divialon Logal OffIcor.

1945-48 Adminlotered Pinanolad Mrttera

Concerning l'anlly Estate

17.

MOM-CIA EDUCATION

1915-19

Loyola Univ, sew Orleano, la - Al Arts & Sciencoo

1920-23

-Hervord Inn

School - Lui

1923-24

1924-25

Irinary Collega, Cambridge, England - Enellah Istarnture Rosenrch

Tulnna Unit, ; New Orleana, lur a LL

FOREION

LANGUAOS

Nonn

1954

1959

SORED

TRAININO

ClA Ordontation

Mgut for Contact Div

Sep

1947

SAP

1948

Mor

Jul

1952

1900

Sep

• 1960

. 0.

LWOP

I.O.-Contact.

POMAL

COOC

0132.21

0132.21

0132.21

0132.21

GRADE

P-?

P-8

15

15

ordere.

and

ORGANIZATION A

ORGAM.

апт)

00/Contact/Contr/AcEg R MET LAC

CO/Contact Br/Rog Mer N. O.

0000/ContactD1v/Ca, N.D. Off

0000/ContactDiv/Ch, NewOrloano Off

LOCATION

Nou

Orloaro

10.

PROFILE

Reviero 25 Sop 1962 OP/POD/CAB/uns

"D; 1200 (PART () •*

88.

REVIERED &

EMPLOYER

1111 SECRET

2 Doc '1937

PROFILE

---

## Page 11

0177

SECRET

filled fai

BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE (PART 2)

ОАТ& 00 818TИ

Ust 1900

MMI OBE

CE OUTLINE

AND/OR PIELD REAODICNMENT QUESTIONHAIRE

88.

IDENTITY OF OTHER DOCUMENTS PHICH SHOULD OF, ALVINNED

IN DETAIL

20. пО01ТРОнАЕ 1ПРОRилТьом.

Letter of Appreciation 1948 from AD/Operationa prior to leaving Agancy for saving

created an effective field offico in lesa than a year, excellent relations vith ellenta

and local Armed Forces Representatives and high morale of office.

Commendation 1954 soa DD/P. for thorough and expeditlous contribution sade by DDI

Personnel to urgent need for Intelligence about Quatemala.

87.

DATE REVIENCO

25 Sep 1962

соти но.

1200. (PART 2) :

PROFILE

REVIRUTO AY

OP/POD/CAB/hmg

DO PRANT & SECRET

PROFILE

---

## Page 12

4-00000

SECRET

0 2 MAY 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Directar for Operations

SUBJECT:

W1111em P. Burke, Memorandum of Performance.

William P. Burke, Chief, New Orleans Field Office. continues

to manage his office in a thoroughly competent and efficient manner.

He is extremely conservative by isture and finds It difficult to

act without the most careful consideration of all factors Involved.

While this approach might be a handicap in some areas it tends to

be an asset in New Orleans. In spite of this tendency he willingly

and efficiertly devotes all his time and energy to the solution of a

problem in an emergency: He represents the Agency well and usintains

the highest respect in his community.

Easteraft

E. M. ASHCRAFT

Caleí, Contes: Division

REVIEWING OFFICIAL:

GEORGE G.

Assistant Director for Operations

SECRET

---

## Page 13

qui

SECRET

0.2 MAY 1962

MEMORANDUN FOR:. Assistant Director for Operations

SUBJECT:

Wilitan P. Burke, Memorandun of Performance

Willian P. Burke, Chief, New Orleans Field Office continues

to manage his office 1n & thoroughly competent and efficient manner.

He is extrenely conservative by nature and findo it difficult to

act without the most careful consideration of all factors involved.

Walle this approach might be & handicap in some areas 1t tends to

be an asset in New Orleans.

In spite of this tendency he willingly

and efficiently devotes all his time and energy to the solution of a

problem in an emergency.. He represents the Agency well and maintains

the highest respact 1n k18 community.

Shashuraft

E. M. ASHCRAFT

Calel, Contact Division

REVIEWING OFFICIAL:

Ears Learn

GEORGE G.

Abalstant Director for Operytions

•.

SECRET

---

## Page 14

14-00000

21 June 61

Mano for Pile - W1111an P. Burko

Sibjects Longerity Step Incraaao

In reviewing tile filo under the Security

reinvestigation. progran, lt was noted

I that the:

3rd ISI (an GS-15) was proposed

to be'mado affective

on 19 Sept 60, but that the effoctivo dato had been

changed by Payroll to show 16 Oct 60. Reason for

•the chango is presumed to be due to IWOP. Form 560

showg 225 hours of top during the walting period..

If those fijures are correct, then there was no

"excoss" WHOP, since the law provides that a mei.

mum of 240 hours ol IHOP 1s credituble toward com

pletion of the walting period in the case of Isl's.

I callod this case to the attention of Joo

Tracy, C/Payroll, who will review lOP rocordo and,

1f roquired, Issue a memorandun to correct the

effective date of the last IsI.

Gene C. Stevens

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET

30 JUN 1961

MEVORANDUM FOR: • Austetant Director for Operatione

W1111en P. Burke, Memorandum of Performance

Willan P. Burke, Chief of the New Orleano Field Offico,

continues.tomnage his office in @ thoroughly competent.ond

efficient manner.

Mr. Burko 10 a conservative who cometimes

finds it difficult without moot careful and protracted

consideration. of all factors involved to adjust to changeo 10

methods and objectives particularly those peculiar to clander-

tino support.

While his conservatica added to his meticulous

legalistic approach might be something less than deditable 1n

certain arcas 1t la a definito asset 1n New Orleans.

When

called upon 1n-emergency be willingly and efficiently devotes

his entire time and energy to the salution of the problem

regardless of personal Inconvenience.

Mr. Burke represents

the Agency tall in blo area and readily maintalas respoct 1s

the community.

Midchiraft

E. M. ASHCRAFT

Ca10f, Costact DIVlB1O0

REVIVING OFFICIAL!

8 JUL 1968

George Go

laBiatant darestor sor Operations

"ra livinG

SECRET

---

## Page 16

4-00001

662995247

SECRET

•Sei

NEVORANDUM FOR: Assistant Director for Operations

SUBJECT:

• William P. Burke, Memorandum of Perforaance

Willian P. Burke, Chief of the new Orleans Fleld Office,

continues to manage his office in a thoroughly coupetent and

efficient manner:

Mr.. Burke is a conservative who souetimes

finds it disticult without most careful and protrated

consideration of all factors involved to adjust to changes in

, methods and cojectives particularly those peculiar to clandes-

tine support.

while his conservatism added to his seticulous

legalistic approach might be something less than desirable in

certain areès it 1s a definite asset, in New Orleans.

when

called. upon In emergency he willingly and efficiently devotes

his entire time and

energy to the solution of the problem

regardless of pérsonal incónvenience..

Mr. Burke represents

the Agency well in his area and rendily maintaies respect in

the comimin1ty-

E. M. ASHCRAFT

Chief, Contact Division

REVIEWING OFFICIAL:

S.-

Garge G.

Assistant Director for Operations

8 JUL 1961

SEGRET

---

## Page 17

4-00000

SECRET

WHEN TILLID AN

P.- iMP, aIRIAL NO.

101775

B. ALLOTMENT

OLD

ORADE : !

RURKE MILLIAN P.

SALARY RATE

SALARY

по

ABBIGAND ORÇAN.

DOLICONT

PUMDS

V-40

NEW

15

315.550

LAST. EFFECTIVE DATE

DA.

*21

5.8

GRADE

STEP

SALARY

RATE

BALARY

EFFECTIVE DATE

•GS. 1:5

515,810

ТО BE

COMPLETED

BY

THE OFFICE.OF

COMPTROLLER

8. CHECH ОМЕ

• NO 816888 1000

IT EXCRIS LWOP, CHECK FOLLOTING:

[J IN PAT STATUR AT ARO OF DAITINO

1O. INITIALS ON CLERK

18. AUDITID BY

12. ТУР& OF ACTІоМ...

P. 8.8. (S.. 2.2.1. PAY MOJOOTHERE

IA. AUTHENTICATION

PERIOO

TO BE COMPLETED BY

THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ReMARKa Explojos bas

servod an aggrogato of

10 Joars in presont, aquivalent, ar higher

prado and at tho top of present grade alrice

2-19482

This 10 tbo third laogevity stop

Increase. o

,::

560

ISOLETE PREVIOUS EDITH

Muen ron 9600.110 00

% HOL

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

SECRET

OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER

14)

1960

---

## Page 18

4-00000

iVtoV

d la la.

'UV ro.V

Son ot No.

101775

13144

•_ SECRET

(Whon filled In)

7 Atonip (listituent Muddie)''

CORAL WILLIAM? Si

8 CIC Prime

PICSC Or Orio legal Authorily

Yes. y

I Curte

No:?

50 USCA. 903

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

Mo

GO

•Yo

22

Apra.

All.d 18

tho

her

Pool.

Si Tra

10 p. 2

FEGU

Yes -1

Code

No. 7

5500

M

BC5100

0, 73

Cou

la Organitional Dergnatoni

CURRENT ASSIGNMENT

Corte

Is locution Cl Ollicial Seation

sparroni Cove

¿NTAGI CIVISION

ALL ONLEANS OFFICE

ld Dope.

Dest.

Prold

11y Percion Tollo

ustid .

To do

21 Grode & Stop

159

INTEL OFF (CON) (CH)

22 Salary Or Puro

23 S0

$ 15550

OC

2531

NEW DALLANS, LA.

.18. Posieron No

0199

24 Dolo Of Croise

123 Psl Que

Mo

PAo

Du

XXXX

Ye.

/XX

75033

T1D Sorer. 1791

Oxcup Series

20 Appropriation Pourer

1242

2221

ACTION

21. Neuro Of Actron

Codo

RETURN TO DUTY

FROM LWOP

3l Organisational Desegnutions

88 El Dulo

ju lege 01 Employon

D.)

7

9.113

60

Regular

PROPOSED ASSICNMENT

Code

52. decelon Of Official Slation

core (5) 5854310910n Dalo

Sióron Coito

2531

33 Dope - Prold

Je Perilion Titte

Depr

Caus

ustlo.

39 Grana 5 Slap

39 Slidey Gre Grise

Tös. Portion No

75033

T3s. Stes.

37 Occup. Sorien

40 SO

1l Date Of Grece

12 PSI Due

Du

12:,

C422148 0915160

SOURCE OF REQUEST

43 Appropriation timers

Ann I. Budresky

Faste Appround.

Contact Division, go

GEORGE ARENT. LAIRY 35 SEP 1960

Agoistant Director for Operations

Clearanco

Corear Hourd

8 Pos Control

C Clossiticalion

Remarks

Sanature

CLEARANCES

Dare

Clearsace

Plese amount

9-16 t0

Signature

Doie

Approvert 2,

E Continued Q' 2410r0 Side

FORM NO

1152

• 359

(9)

+0.11UH1

SECRET

C

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECRET

(liton lilled in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

BLT: 7 SEPT: 1960

T. Serial No.

8. Nonio (lavinnilutilo).

101775

BURKE WILLIAN PUR-

SCO

8. CSC RAtRE

Mo.

Da.

Tric or Othor Logol Authority

0715

3. Dare Of Binh

1:Ve. 206.

Mo.

Do.

10

22

10. Aont Alliday. 11. fretr

Mo.

;M.1

118.

Ala

09

Mo

15j44

113. 6000

Yos. 1

No -8.

Codo

14. Ongonizational Designations.

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Codo

115. Location Or Oiticial Stution

Stution Codo

DDI 00

CONTACT DIVISION

NEW ORLEANS OFFICE

116. Dept. - Field J17. Poston tão

Door

¡Codo

Ustld - 1

INTEL DIF (CON, (CH)

tron

81. Grudo & Siop

22. Salary Or sio 23. SD

15 9

$ 85550

OC

2531

NEW ORLEANS, LA.

18. Position No.

0195

75033

19. Sorv. 180. Occup Sorior

0132.21

84. Date Of Grado 25.

PSI Duo

48

did Appropriation Numbor

1242 2221

87. Natura Of Action

RETURN TO DUTY

FROM LEAVE WITHOUT FAY

Codo

ACTION

88. tif. Dato

Mo.

Da..

50

Ye.

60

129. Typo Of Employde

Code / 30. Soparation Dala

31. Organizational Dessertai

09 1.07

REGULAR

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Codo

32. Location Of Offridi Slation

01

Santion Codo

DDI 00

CONTACT DIVISION

NEW ORLEANS OFFICE

33. Dopt - Fiold 34. Handor i do

Dept

Codo

Fran

4

INTELL OFF (CON) (CH)

38. Grado & Siop

30 SERIa OF Rato 140. SD

159

• Remarks

1915550

•OC

2531

NEW ORLEANS, LA.

75033

35. Position No.

36. Sorv. 137. Decup Sorios

J195

GS

0132.21

41. Dato Of Grado | 42. PSI Dud

43.

Appropriation Numbor

09, 19, 48

Ng, is, dò 1242 2221

POSTED

0:2 60 18

і мля 87 1150.g0 =

SECRET

DT

(4)

---

## Page 20

14-00000

SECRET

(then. Filias bai

V.ro V

DATE PREPARED

REQUEST FOR FERSONNEL ACTION

Sorial No.

VIo. UY

UV To UN

2. Nomo (Lusr-First-Middlo)

'Ado

1775

SCO

Da,

BURKS, Willlen P.iJr

i5. Durg or goren

Ato

10

i22

d: Vor: Frol.

Ye

None-0

00

Pp-)

8. CSC Retmi'9, ESC Di Otter Logol Authority' Èla Asia, Alfidar. UI:FEGLI 1U2.

No

•. 2:

Ye.

Yos.1 Cod

•Mo

.No..2

5. Sos

37!

60

6. CS - ECO.

•Mo

Da

Yo

CURRENT ASSIGHMENT

Code

Orgonizortonol Designatione

DDI /00

Contact Division

New Orleans Office

IS. Lererion Of Official Station

Sietien Cod

-Hew Orleans, La.

16. Dopt.- Fiold

17. Position Tirlo

Todo

Fesn.

4.

Intelligence

Officer (Contact) (CE)

21. Grado &.510p

122. Solory Or Roro

23. SO

15-x 9

814,450

18. Position No.

19, Sorr 20. Occup Sorias

195

GS

|26. Appropriation Numbor

6242-2221

0132.21

27. Naluro Of Action

Cado

ISAVE WITHOUT PAY*

NTELGANGTO

THRU CAB 1E SepTGC)

3J. Organizarlonal Dosignorlans

orataliale

# ACTION

129. Eff. Daro

29. Typo Of Employoo

"Bas"» "

$ 13/160

Regilar

PROPOSED ASSIGNMENT

•Cado

7/32. Locétion Or. Officlal Spatian

Cado|30. Separation Dario

46

Statica Codo

22.36

E3. Dapt.. Flold

134. Position Tirlo

Golia:

Codo

33. Grado a Sto;

39. Solary Or Roto

130. SD

135. Position No.

36 Sore, 37. Deruf. Sartas

TAl. DEro OT Grado TAT. PET Dia

Aio Do

tto

43. Appropriation Numbor

Assistant Director for Ggerations

A. Geroor Booid

B. Pos. Control

SOURCE OF REQUEST

Tere denotace Dirsion

C. Rosua Aeroved By (signoruro And Tirlo)

For Additional Informaron Coll (Namo & Tolophono Exe.)

1=7\L. Budresky

2271

CLEARANCES

Doro

Cloorerco

D. Plocosone

E. Reie=se

Doro Apporad

1

Cloáranco

Signature :

Sognatere

Daro

E. Clossification

fasirks *Peroonal ressons.

It 1a requested thst Mr. Blase be granted/25 daya of leave

vi capie ay comeno e lo July and endirs fa en

S18520 48105YOUS

"SECRET

federi.

opei in

---

## Page 21

14-00000

SECRET

(rhon filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

PAS:

26 AUGUST 1960

1. Serial No.

8. Nomo (Last-first-Middla)

3. Cata

• Ci Bah

tló.

Da.1

Yr.

101 05

Yr.

07 15/44

BURKE WILLIAM P JR

I. CSC Kerme, 18. ESC Or Other Logol Äuthoriy

Yes. 1

Codo

50 USCA 403.

10

22 | 00

1d. Var. leat

115.251

Nonn-0

¡Codo

5P1-1

10PI-2/ 1

12. ADD Alludes

No.

Da.

Yr.

Yes. 1 Codo

Mo

Gi;

110-2

09.1

16. 63: 600

Mo. | Du..

Ys.

09 /18/47

13. E26o

*7 No 2,

Code

14. Orgunizational Dosignations

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Codo

15. Locauon Of Ollicial Station

Station. Codo

DOI

00

CONTACT DIVISION

NEW ORLEANS: OFFICE

10.

Dopt: - Field

Dopt - 8

17. Postion Into

USIld - 1

Codo

fran

INTEL OFF (CON) (CH)

81. Grado a SiOp

29. Salary Or-Kora 23. SD

159

$ 15550

•OC

¡NEW ORLEANS, LA.

18. Position No.

0195

? Sorr:j20. Occup. Sorios

01 32.21

24. Dato Of Grode |25. PSI Duo

GS

86.

Appropriation listibor

0242 2221

87. Naturo Ol Acuon

LEAVE WiTHOUT.PAY

(THRU COB 10 SEPT 1960)

31. Organizational Dosignations

ACTION

Code

28. EH. DE12

89. Trpu Ol Employoo

Mo.

Da,

Ye.

B0B

61

07 1 29 1 60

REGULAR

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Codo

34. Location Ol Official Station

Cr39, 30. Soporation Dura

70|

Stution Codo

DDI

00

CONTACT DIVISION

NEW ORLEANS OFFICE

33. Dopt. - Fiuld

34. Position into

Dont

Codo

Usild . 4

fron

38. Grado a 5ie0| 39. Salary Or'Poto

INTEL OFF CON SCH)

15.9

44. Ramarks

$ 15550

oc

3531

NEW ORLEANS, LA.

33. дознісл Аб.

- 0195

75033

36. 590r. 27. Occup. 50rias

0132.21

GS

41. Dors Ol Grado: 42. PSI Duo

143. Appropriation, liumber

Mo

Ÿr.

09/19/48/ XXXX I XX| 1242 2221

1 30-60 wr

FOLAR 8, 1150/ siles

SECRET

---

## Page 22

"a""

. IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF POLO 86-568 AND OCI MEMO DATED

1' AUGUST 1956, SALARY IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLONS EFFECTIVE 10 JULY 1960.

SD

NAME

SERIAL ORGN GR-ST OLD SALARY

NEW SALARY

•_ ..

BURKE WILLIAM PUR 101775 25 31 GS-15 9

814,450

$15,550

.151

EMMETT DO ECHOLS

DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL

---

## Page 23

14-00000

10

MEVORANDUM FOR: Asilstant Director fOr Operations.

SUBJECT:

W111lan P. Burke, Memorandin of Performance

1. William P. Burke, Chlef of the New Orleans Feld Office,

cuntinues to manage bis office most efficiently and to demonstrate

thorough knovledge of his area. His Inherent conservatlam and some-

what legalistic approach tend to make 1t difficult for him to accept

change and nethoda peculiar to clandestine support without most care-

ful consideration of all the factors iavolved.

2. Mr. Burke represents the Agency well in his area. Hls con-

servatism is to a degree an asset in New Orleana; 1t could conceivably

be a handicay elsewhere.

rachmafte

E. M. ASHCRAFT

Chief, Contact Division

REVIEWING OFFICIAL:

—22aи 29 l'Al 1960

Aertstart Director for operator

---

## Page 24

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

•r. 2020. 180

TO

Chief, co/cD

Director of Security

Director of Personnel

FROM

.: Chief, Conmunications Security Staff

SUBJECT: Revocation of Cryptographic Clearance -

Willian P. Burke.

1. The cryptographic clearance held by Subjest has been revoked under

che provisions of ClA regulation 90-500.

Revocation is effective

_ 9 Fob 60

2. Subject is not authorized to have continue: custody of, accese to,

or otherwise gain further knowledge of staff cryptographic material or intorma-

tion.

Subject has been

Inforned of this revocation, has been debriefed concern-

ing cryptographic and related communications security sitters,

and has signed

a Debriefing Statement acknowledging continuing

responsibility for the protection

of all cryptographic information öbtained during tha

tenure of his cryptographic

clearance.

FOR THE CHIEF, COMMUNICATIONS:

a Cries, Protective Branch

Distribution:

i - security Orrice (Debriefing Statement istastes)

1 - Personnel Office (Wing 1-5

Curfe

Hall)

1 - OC-s/PROT F1le

CONFIDERTIAL

3-5, 1597b

18)

---

## Page 25

SECRET

then Filed t

FiTNESS REPORT.

SECTION A

15190) 1

prodie?

GENERALI

1A DATE OF BIRTH

510/22/1900

BURKE

SERVICE ORSIONATION O. OF RICIAL POSITiONiTITUE.

Intelligence Officer: (contact)

CAREER'STANT

'STATÚS"

ÖRAO&

OS-15

•P'OPiR: DIN/ BA OF ASSiONMENT

00/CD/Nei Orleans:

TYPE OP REPORT

PIANOIONNENT! SUPERVISOR

RKANSIONMENTINMPLOVEE

¡RANOING

DUNIRO

Pa EITEREPORT DUE IN'O:P.

11: REPORTIMOPERIOO

ANNUAL

To

SPEÇIAL (Spally)

31: May 1959

Sopt 58 - Mar 59

SECTION B

EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

Lise do

to six of pho moss important ipocitie duties.

äting'period, Iniois raring number which bea

manner in which oplayas

Consider ONLY etrectivenoss in parlormance of that duty.

mini supervisny rosporsibilitiar MUST be rotod on thair obility lo, ruporviso ridicaro nunsor al emplorado supervisio.

• Unsatistactory

• 2 : Baraly odoquate

3- Accoptablo

1. Comparent 5: Excollene. & - Suporlòe

SPECIFIC DUTI NO.!'

RATINO

SPECIFIC'DUTY.NO.A

NO.

Maingement of a domestic field

Obtaining cooperation of non-.

arfice.

6

govermental sources 1n bis area.

doscribos tho

All employees

17 - Oütsronding

RATINO

•но.

SPECIFIE DUTY NO.?

Abalysis of assigned area for

Intelligence potential.

RATING

NO.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO: S

NO.

6

ulaison vith Federal and local

4

agències and officiala la his area.

SPECIFIC OUTY NO.S.

RATING

NO.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. O

PATINO

Planning and carrying out effective

intelligence collection.

6

Support af other elements of CIA 10

3

his ares.

SECTION C

EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Také into secount argrything about she amployoo which intluences hrs effectivenoss in his current position - porformonco ol apocille

duties, proiluerinity, conducron lob,

cooporativonés's, portinent parsonal irairs or hobirs, porticular limiratione or tolants.

Basad 'on

your inauladgo of employoo"s ororall portremance

during tho rating period, ploce the rating numbes in the box corresponding to tha

irarotent which most occuaroly roflaces his lovel al partormanco.

Parlormanco in many important respacis laila lo

meer requiremenes.

Portormanco modis most roquirements bur la defiéient in ano de more importone cospaces.

Partormanco c liarly moots basic requiromonto.

Pertormanco clearly axreads basie requirements.

RATING

NO.

5

8: Performance in every important eupeeding.

Performanco in evory Important respece in auperior.

SECTION D

DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE

In the rosing boxos bolow, chack (X) the degres lo which ooch characte istic applier so the employee

l- Least possiblo dogreo

2 - Limitod dogreo

3. Normal degroo IT - Abore average dogres

75 - Outstanding degroo

CHARÁCTERISTICS

RATING

SERVED

GETS TRIMES DONE

RESONAIIFUL

RESPONSIBILITIES

CAN

MALE DECISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES

DOES HiS 20S

WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT

TES SMOOTH OPERATION OF MIS OFFICE

RETIREL

MTY CONSCIOUS

THINAS CLEARLY

DISCIPLIME IN ORIGINATINO, MAINTAININO AND DISPOSING OF RECORDS

¿-ORM 85 CASOLATE PRÉVIOUS ROITIONS.

SEE SECTION "E" ON REVERSE SIE

SECRET

---

## Page 26

SEGRET

SECTION E

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE:

Stress antongini and maonanies devionistrared la current posilion.

loe impeoromoni of his

inork.

Giy. recommeridorións fä tra troning: Describo.

•@ondibilitied..Amolity.ordnploin. 'it.arpropiloró, roringi giren in SECTIONS B C..and'D lo provide die bour bosid lor dorormining

luturo parsorinoliactione.

subject possesses completo integrity and thorough koeffse blarea.

He 18

able to assess the potential of sources and to obtain their full cooperation..

clandestine services la required.

Hie conservatisn 18, to an extent, an asset in

his area; it could be undesirable in same other absigunente.

SECTION F:

DATE

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

Teertily that I have seon Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

SIONATURE OF EMPLOVEE

2.

MONTHS EMPLOVEL

MAS BEEN

UNULH MI SUPERVISION

100

BY SUPERVISOR

IN THIS REPORT HAS NOT BREN SMOWN TO'EMPLOYEE, OIVE PXPLANATION

Subject 18 located 1º New Orleans.

' 1S NOT BEING MADE AT THIS TIME, GIVE REASON.

THiAN DO DAYS

REPORT MADE 'WITHIN LAST DO DAYS

AMNLOVEE UNDER MY SUDEAVISION

OTHER (Spocilo):

DATE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF JUPERVISOR

23 april 59

Catef, CD/00

BY

REVIEWING OFFICIAL

TYPED OR PRINTEO NAME

AND

SIGNATURE

E. M. Ashcraft

Minchialt

x

I WOULD HAVE SIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE ABOUT THE SAME EVALUATION.

WOULO MAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A HIGHER EVALUATION.

WOULD MAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A LOMER EVALUATION.

1 CANNOT JUDGE TRESE EVALUATIONI, I AM NOT SUFFICIENTLY FAMILIAN WITH THE EMPLOYEE'S PERPORMANCE.

COMMENTS OF REVIEMINÓ OFFICIAL

DATE

28 APR 1959

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIANINO OFFICIAL

AD/O

7560772

Georgo G.

Carey

SECRET

---

## Page 27

14-00000

SECRET

ASHIEN FILLED, INI

AMP SLMIAL NO.

ASSIGNEO ORGAN.

1 PUNGS./. 3. ALLOTMENT

101775

BURKE, WILLIAN P.

DDI/CONT

T-LO

G.

OLD SALARY RATE

NEW SALARY

LAST EPFECTIVE DATE

RATE

EFFECTIVE DATE

GRADE

STEP

SALARY

но.

DA

GRADE

STEP

SALARY

та.

но

DA.

та.

GS

15

5.

18,210

113,970

109

16

51

OS 15/X& Y

14,450

_09

21

58

REMARKS

EMPLOYEE HAS SERVED AN AGREGATE OF 10 TEARS IN PRESENT,

EQUIVALENT, OR HIGHER

GRADE AND AT THE TOP OF PRESENT GRADE SINCE 16 Sep 51.

THIS IS THE FIRST AND

SECOMO LONGEVITY STEP INCREASES.

CERTIFICATION

I CERTIFY THAT THE SERVICE AND CONDUCT OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE ARE SATISFACTORY.

TYPED, OR PRINTED, MAME OF SUPERVISOR

E. M. ASHCRAFT

DATE

SiGNATURE CE SUPER,

Hidate

24 Feb. '59

PERIODIC STEP INCREASE - CERTIFICATION

SECRET

PERSONNEL FOLDER

cio

---

## Page 28

14-00000

SECRET

WHEN FILLED IND

EMP SERIAL MO.

NAME

ASSIGNED UNGAN

8. FUN:S

ALLOTMENT

101775

GRADE

STEP

BURKE, VILIAN P.

OLD SALARY RATE

LAST EFFECTIVE DATE

W;.

DDI/CONT

Y-40

7.

NEW SALARY RATE

EFFECTIVE DATE

SALITY

та.

GRADE

STEP

SALARY

10.

14, 210

CS

15

5

13,000

109

16

lOS

15 /8&7

1246, 450

109

21

-58

TO BE COMPLETED

BY THE

OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER

8, CHECK ONE

NO EXCESS INNE

I EXCESS LWOP

9. HUNGER OF NOCES LHOP

IF EXCESS LWOP, CHECK FOLLOWINE

1N PAT STATUS AY IND OF BUTTA ATTICO

10. INITIALS OF CLERK

11. AUDITED BY

17 LATOR STATUS AT END S NATAS PERICO

TO SE COMPLETED BY THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

12.

PROJECTED SALARY RATE ANS ESFECTIVE DATE

13. REMARKS

STEP

40.

DA.

YR.

APLOYEE HAS SERVED AN ASGREGATS OF 10 TEAR

IN PRESENT, BQUIVALENT, OR HITHER ORADE AND

AT THE TOP CE FASCENA CRANE STACE 16 SBE 51.

IA. AUTHENTICATION

THIS IS IRE FIRST AND SECOND LONGEVIET SLOP

INC 'EASES.

41)

agu

u0so

560b

000

coun

зарі

300

3

PERIODIC STEP INCREASE • AUTHENTICATION

SECREI p

PERSONNEL FOLDER

(8)

-

---

## Page 29

1958

SECRET

Follod.?n1

FITNESS REPORT (Parti) PERFORMANCE

INSTRUCTIONS

FOR TIE AMINISTRATIVE INFICER • Consule cur

mateline thin

reppre.

FOR MIE SERVISIR.

Tita.

repore do ilegiene

to help, jou expicis

thie evalilacion io"

•іґот

evaluation of roue autoritinate an ló dranami

nate where.

mind

serenatha

the report

arcan cation policy squires that you infore sho

siscussion edenihia of hi

mealines

i int ton

polléy thel

sho

under conlitinns

thet

empilojer

you read the

lora télore creplesdne

any

nucation.

the

loriardeil to the nittire ol

frasonnel. no Tater

beloo..

SECTION

(Lags)

: (86888)

BI5G,

• Willian P.

OFFICLLOIVISION BRANCH OF ASSIGAMENT

00/Contact, New Oricans

BRADE

DATE REPORT QUE IN' OP

G5 - 15

10.

0. September 1259

TURE OF REPORT

ол8)

(Vidalö)

6A18.05. DIRTH

1020/00.

A. SERVICE DESIGNATION

OC

AFFRICIAL POSITION TITTE

Intellizence Officer (Contact) (C)

D. PERiDO CONCArO Di

IMIS REPORT (Incredire dates)

SET - 219/59

3A86101 (Specili)

SECTION 8.

CERTIFICATION

THE RATER:

THIS REPORT INE HAS DO MAS NOT DIEN SMIDY TO THE INDIVIDUAL RATED, IF MOT SHORN: IMPLAIA SNY

NOTT

subject not avallable in lastington area.

CHECK (X) APPROPRINTE STATEVENTS,

7 August 1954

FOR THE RELIERINE DEFICIAL

FORMATION.

AMICH

AD

(Specifys:

NO SIGNATURE UF SUPERVISOR ID. SUPERVISNR'S OFFICIAL PITER

•TANT I AL

DIFTERINGE

ANDING OF

MIS RIPORT.

•UPRADISUA.

OR ANT URNSA 14.

D2 9:38-300

15.₴

certily that any substantial difference of opinion with, she supervisor

18/20 55

AND SIGNAT-RE OF REVIEWING

reflected in the

above section.

c.

OFFICIAL TITLE OF RELIGING ORFICIAL

1D/0

SECTION C.

JOS PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

RATING ON GENERAL PERFORUAYCE OF CUTIES

DIRECTIONS:

Cousiver

mly the productirity

ind effectiveness wish which the puliradual being rated has

his duties during the sarine persail.

Comer, a dr lie other dome heilar mrade a siane level of respon-

sibility.

Facrors other than productivary vill be laken into

eccount laser in Section

5

INSERT

RATING

COES NOT PERFORM DUTIES ADELATELY:

не 15 продудетса».

BARELY ADEQUATE IN PERFARUIACEI ALTMOUGA ME HAS MAS SPECIFIC QUIDANCE OR

TRAIMING. ME OFTEN FAILS TO

CARAY OUT RESPONSIBILITIES.

PERFORUS MOST OF

MIS DUTIES ACCEPTABLYI

OCCASIONAILY REVEALS SOME AREA DE BEARNESS.

• PERFORUS DUTIES IN A COMPETENT.

ESFECTIVE VARDER.

A FINE PERFORVANCE,

CARRIES OUT MANY CE MIS DESPINS: BILITIES EXCEPTIDNALLY DELL.

AN OUESTANDIME VANDER THAT NE, IS EQUALLES

fr

FEB. OTHER PERSONS ANODY TO

THE

SUPERVISOR.

COSMIENTS:

FORM NO.

REPLACES PREDID,S

I NOV 3S

45 (Part 1)

SE FORUS 8S 140 190

"HICH SECRET

ARE OBSOLETE.

WHICH

Read to

Better

---

## Page 30

14-00000

SECRET

FIC. DUTIES

BDACES

Ann inly allertine

Job; ¡jesa day, Le performina doflirene duties.

kind of duedes shar

1D BATARI

CODROOL APQOICES INTRAMOCATION'S

GIVINO LECTURES

DEYFLOPS;NES PROCRANS."

PRETARES: 51/W449125

CONLUCTING

SONIYARS

‚ATALYERS INDISTRIAL ADYONTS

TRANSI. ATES. GPRUAN

PRITINO TECHNICAL

EPORTS

DEBRIRFINO

ONDECTINO EATENRAL LIArSON

RADIO

'SOURCES

KEEP'S DONE'S

TYPINO

COORDINATES DITH OTHER OFFICES

TARINO DICTATIÓN

SUPERVISINO

RELATIONS

DRIVES TRUCK

MAINTAINS AIR CONDITICMIMO

•EVAIVATES SIGNIPICANCE OF DATA

e. For some jole, "Jutjesimay be broken dion even: further il supervisos considers l8 adrenable. e.8..

and phone operation, in the case ol

DESCRIPTIVE

RATING

NUMBLA

Management of domestic field offico

Analysis of assigned area for

Intelligence potential

• DINCOMPETENT, IN

THE PERPGRURACE OF

DARELY ADCQUATE IN THE PISSORMANCE OR THIS

DUTY

:: PERFORMS THIS DUTY AN A CARLY

• PERFORUS THIS DUTY IN A COMPLIENT-MANNER

PERFORMS THIS DUTY

12 S1CH

PINT MANNER

TNAT ME IS A DISTINCI ASTRI, ON MIS

10g

RATING DORSIONE DUTI

MUMBiR

Obtaining the

6

rective support of non-government

urces ard contacts in his ari

DATING

NUMBER

6

"• • PERISHNS THIS DUTY IN AN OUTSTANDING MANNER

•DUMD

IN VIAY FRO INDIVIDUALS HOLDING SINI.

1089

P.. RICALS

AUYONE I ХМОЙ IM ИГ PIRDRMNE О

THIS DUTY

[laison with Federal and local

agencies and officials in his area

SPICIODE

HATIN'T

The planning and carrying out of

effoctive Intelligence collection

6

Support of other elements of CIA

In his area

RATING

MURDER

6

MAXIMG

NUMBER

4

RATING

3

MAMRATIVE DESCRIPTION DE MAMMER OF

JOS PEREDRUANCE

DIKEA TIANS:

Serras alrengths and weaklicases.

particulerly those which affeet developmens on prerent job.

Subject possesses.complete Integalty and thorough kaouledge of his area. Be has tbe

ability to assess the potential of sources and to obtais their full cooperation.

Ве

1s Inclined toward à legalistie approach which renders him somerkat less than

receptive to sen Ideas and methods, particularly where understanding support of the

clandestine services is required.

Inis conservatism 18 to & degree an asset in the

arca and the dittes to which he 1s assigned but could be undesirable in some other

assiguments.

SECTION D.

VARIATIONS:

into

partinenl personal charachorsalads or

paro him

with others

SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JO8 IN ORGAMIZATION

the enerald hood clip in'

conduct in

MINDER

A BARELY ACCEPTABLE EMPLOYEE...BELCO

AVE ACE PUT TEM NO MARO SADS SONACIRNO COPSTANCING 19 849-

SUITABILITY AS MOST PEOPLE I KMON IN THE OEGAMIZATION

A FINE EUPLOYEE, MAS SONE

JUTSTANDING STRINGINS

REQUIREMENTS OF THE ORGANIZATION

IS THIS INDIVIDUAL BETTER SUITIO FOR MORA IS SONE OTHER POSITION IN THE ORGANIZATIONI

IF YES.

FAPLAIN FULLYI

SECRET

---

## Page 31

14-00000

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT (Part Il) POTENTIAL

NSTRUCTIONS

TIÊ NNINISTCATIVE DEFICER: Conaulo cursène ingeructione lor complesine thea repoer.

MOR THE SITENNISÓR:

Mia repoil do a pilviliiad coandcarson lo your, iuprtvisor.

anio io approprlaro

meritis; one

personnel alle

she polential

to pro

rojbe.complerrd.onfy

Mia report la

¡Or 'FOR AT-LEAST. 9O DAYS.

'phan, 90 daye,

brill'aral cornlire

phe 9o days hai clapsid.

¿e che 'INITIAL RepuT on the caployée: homever. it

MUST. be

appletal ant formarded to the ir io lärei

SECTION "E.

GENERAL:

MAME:

(L000)

BURKE,

SETTOR

(M1d180).

8. DATE'OR

10/22/00

M

a sication

ORTICE/DIVISION BRANCH OF ASSIGNNEMT

00/Contast/ Név Orleans

GRADE

DATE REPORT DUE IN 0I

G5-15

• Sept..195

TITLE

Intelligence Officer.(Contact) (CH)

D. PERIDO COVIATO

2//579 - 9/3/58

10.

MPIO

•ne (Spocily)

'Chack' ono)

SECTION E.

PORI TUE RATEO:

IO THAT , THIS ALPORI

JUDGEMENT ON THE INDIVIDUAL DEINO RATEO

SUPERAISOR C.

SUPERVISOR'S OFFICIAL TITLE

509 THE ROMICOING

DEFICIAL

THIS REPORT AND MOTLO

ANY DIFFERENCE

Сов, 90100

OPINION

ATTACHEO MEMO.

SiGNATUME ON. REVI

OFFICIAL TITLE DE REVIENING OFFICIAL

GEORGE GE CARFY

AD/O

SECTION G.

ESTINATE OF POTENTIAL

POTENTIAL

IO ASSUME GREATER RESPONSIOILITIES

DINOCTIONS:

resporivibilition.

employre a potential

to assume

kind of responsabllady encoundered al

various levels

in his kind of

work.

PERFOHMANCE CAN BE EXPECTEO

ISFACTORY PERFORMANCE CAN

PRAINEO TO ASSUME CREATER RESPONSIDILITIES

RATINO

MUMBER

RESPONSIBILITIES

OUTIES MITHOUT FURTHIA .FRAIMING

PRESENT LEVEL

TURAN WHO SHOURO BESCORSEEEE NE CARLY ASSUMATION OF MICHEA

DIRPCTIONS:

thi &

question:

ilas

this

superviso)

in YES, indicare belne your opinion

SUITAILE

TRAINING.

Indicare your opinion

by

ine the nunber

sating

descripti

ratina belon

comes clorest

to

expressing your opinion

'acqual"

column.

appropraa!

your

is based on

him

supervise.

note your

ratina. in

Il based on

opinion

of lis parenteal, nore

the

saring in the

"polential"

column.

OESCRIPTIVE

RATING

NUMBER

MAVE NO OPINION ON MIS SUPERVISORY

POTENTIAL

IN

THIS

SITUATION

BELIEVE INDIVIOUAL

DOULD BE A WEAN

SUPERVISOR

IN THIS KINO OF SITUATION

BELIEVE

INDIVIDUAL

HOULD BE

AM AVERAGE

SUPERVISON IN

TUALIONI

INDIVIQUAL

BOULO

A STRONG SUPERVISOR

THIS

SITUATION

ACTUAL

POTENTIAL

DESCRIPTIVE SITUATION

3

s00 (truit

UMIDIATE

prodosional apo

n provare fors, lin

supervisors

A BROvA dl SUPRVIDOnO aNO OPARdO INa BADIE I08 (SoCond fino AuperTIROro)

, ямо

lonal).

IMMEDIATE

SUBDDDIMAYIS ID MOT PREQUENT

•NEN

.0C4LL9

COORDIMATION

3

OTHIS (Specaly)

FORM NO:

MOV

35

45

REPLACES

(Part 11) or

FORMS 45

PS NOUSSENION SECRET

AND 454

WHICH

ARE OBSOLETE.

Potential

10)

---

## Page 32

14-00000

SECRET

0h00-F11/0138n)

MATEO INFLOVIE

92

COMMINTS

ING POTENTiAL

DERY NAUIR YOUR SUFERVISION

OFFICE QI PERSONNET

abject wit leave New Orleans only, for an overseas pot

uty in mohington. In yow of the ract that ate latell bace at Alto 10 sor

"entirely in the field of domestic colloction; It 10 difficult to conceive of such

as agemento analgiment, He le evently qualtried to continu frolio preciat

asd1 giment.

SECTION

" FUTURE-PLANS

i, TRAINING-OR

PLANNIÙ FOR THE

INDIVIDUAL

No training or experience planned or required etcept perlodie meeting of Contact

DIVIsIOn Flold Chilers.

NOTE OTHEA PAÇTORS, INCLUDIME PENSONAL CIRCUMST

TO:BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IN INDI

•S FUTURE ASSIGNMENT

See Section G.4. above.

SECTION

DESCRIPTION OF IMDIVIDUAL

DIRECTIONS:

This

rection

provided do an sent to descrubene the

individual as you see him on the job.

the

words-literally.

On

Interpert

each

the page bolow are a series

of

stotements that apply in some degreo to most people.

statement

the

To

she left

1s o dox under

hrarling "category."

Read each

attement

and insere in the box the

coregory number which bess

sello how much the sentement applica to lue person covered by chis repore.

HAVE NOT DOSERVEO TMISO HENCE. CAN GIVE NO OPINION AS TO HON THE DESCRIPTION APPLIES TO THE

APPLIES

TO

THE INDIVIDUAL TO THE LEAST POSSIBLE DEGREE

CATECORY NUMBER

APPLIFS

APPL

INDIVIDUAL

TO A LIMITEO DEGREE

ES

TO

IHDIVIQUAL

APPLI

ES

TO

INDIVIDUAL

TO AN AVERAGE DEGREE

TO

ABOVE

AVERAGE DEGREE

TO

" NOIVIDUAL

TO

AN

SUTSTANDING DEGREE

CATEGORY

CATEGOHY

STATEUENT

CATEGORY

STATEMENT

POINT Or TIED

ACCOMPLISHUENS

DISCUS.

-101E BITE 450C1A75

5

2-

c an

WIN NEED

4

i2.

SHORS ORIGINALITY

3

2x.

indeed, sort nas

5

1).

ACCEPTO BERDOMSIDLE.

8168

29.

•= TNOUONTYUL ON OTHERS

5

•I AMALITIC IN NIS

14.

AORITS MUS

DONAS DILE UNTRA PARASURE

3.

140.

108.01

29.

4

AHEM TO 888K

ABSIDPANCE

s8.

DOES

81 9 100

HITHOUT

28.

IS SECURITY CONSCIOUS

8.

can out aLone re

PROPER

117.

COMES

3

127.

IS TERRAYILE

5

8.

HAS MEMORY DOO PACTS

10.

GUTS THINOS DONE

10.

THINKA CARDDLY

20.

179.

iSon moore orcas

30.

cods

4

10.

5

SECRET

---

## Page 33

4-00000

101:775

SECRET

PART I-GENERAL.

LANGUAGE DATA RECORD

LANGUAGE

191-991

TODAY'S' pATE

~138-991

DaTE. Gr' atetu

129: 301

Detcher

1900

HAVE NO PROPICIENCY

IN ANY FOREIGN LANGUAGE

1957

‚PART 11-LANGUAGE ELEMENTS

SECTICH A.

Reralinie (10)

I CAN RLAD

ONLY RARELY.

TENTS CE

•AN ENGFICULTO, OR A CANIDAL MATURE DO IN SIFLOS I A FAMILIAE MITH, USING THE DICIONARY

' CAN READ TEASE DE DESE BRACES BE DIFFICULTO, DE A GONERAL DATURE OR IN FIRLOS I AU RAMICIAR MITH, USING THE.

DICTIONARY

occasrera.is.

I CAN

3.

FREQUENTLY.

• CAN READ SINPLE PERTS, SUNS AS SERGES SIONS, VERSPAPER MEADLINES, ETC.. USING TNE DICTIONARS FREQUENTEY.

5.

I HAVE NO RADINE SOILIT IN "ME LANGUAGE.

SECTION B.

Hriting (41)

1.

WRITE PIRSITAL

WRITE FACTUAL

ARCAT

2.

CAN WRITE PERSiNAL

MARELY.

ERRORS.

CAN

PRIZE

success.

APOSITORY MATERIAL WITH REASONAALE

BUT IN

A STILE I

NOT HE MATIVE.

USING THE DICTIONARY OCCASIONALLY.

3.

CAN WRITE PERSODAL LETTERS

OCCAS10012-8010-39

SIMILAR

SPIMSATICAL CARCAS AND 1N

WITH

MISTAN AT BEVIOUSLY PORASONA

REASONABLE SUCCESS

AWKWARD STYLE.

I. USE ME DICTANGY

OCCASIONALLY.

I CAN

BUT WITH

MANY

VERY FOREIGN

SOR MATERN ANNIE SEASON LE

MEANING.

S. I CANNOT MRITE IN MME INDENAGE.

SECTION C.

... I'ronincintion (42)

P. MY PRONUACIATICO AS DATiVE.

2. PHILE NATIVES CAO CRYEET AN ACCENT IN MY PADAUACIATION INEY HAVE NO DIFFICULTY UNDERSTANDING ME.

3. MY PROMUNCIATIDN IS CANIDUSY FOREISA, BUT ONLY RARELY CAUSES CIFFICURTY FOR NATIVES TO UNDERSTANO.

I. MY PROSUNCIATION IS CSCASISTRLLO

DIFFICULT TOR GATIVES TO, UNDERSTAND.

1 HAVE NO SKILL IN ASTRID:IRTICS.

т:9M 8:. 444C

'E857

COATINLE ON REVERSE SIDE

SECRET

(4. 45)

---

## Page 34

SECTION D.

CONTINUATION OF PART!'-LANGUAGE ELEMENTS

Spenk ine (43)

SANCE AND ACCURATO SOMAPO.DEAGSS

3. 1 CETALONE QUITE SELL IN SITUATIONS OR DAILY LIPCIANO FRAVEL AND CAN COMDUCT ROUTINE SUSiNESS iN PARTICUiRA CIRIOS

PRANAGE TO CLY ALONG IN THE MOST COMMON SITUATIONS OF DAILY LIPS ANO TRAVEC.

SECTION E.

Understandin's (4)

UNOCASTAÑO MOM-TECHNICAL CONVERSATION ON

ENOT SUN MON SONIC CONGRATION DA SUDGES: POT ACCO REACE NO ON THE TELEOMONE I UNDRASTANO

AND ON

TELEPMONEI

2.

3.

5.

PHONE!

ONDERSTANO

UMDEASTAND MUCH OF

UNDERSTA:DO

HEAR ON

THE

•'ANT TOCTURE SAMO ON THE TELEPMONE I UNDEASTANÓ SOME ON UMAT

1 AM NOT ABLE TO UNDERSTANO TNE SPOKEN LANGUAGE.

SEFORE COMTIMUING - CHECK PART 11 TO ENSURE THAT YOU MAVE CIRCLED. ONE NUMBER PER SECTIOR.

PART 111-EXPERIENCE AS TRANSLATOR OR INTERPRETER (45)

I HAVE MAD EXPERIENCE AS A TRANSLATOR.

2.

1 MAVE MAO EAPERIENCE AS AN INTERPRETER.

3.

BOTH OF THE ABOVE STATEMeNTS APpLY.

A. NONE OF THE ABOVE STAIEMENIS APPLY.

PART IV-CERTIFICATION

I CERTIFY

THAT THE INFORMATION

GIVEN ABOVE IS TRUE AND ACCURATE 1O

THE

BEST OF MY

EDGE

ANO

BELIEF.

THIS CERTIFICATION

CONSTITUTES MY

APPLICATION FOR

MAINTENANCE

No.

AMARO PROVIDED I

Aw L104-4

REGULATION

UNDER

THE

TERMS OF

• 23.113. PAR.

ICIA).

I UNDERSIANO

THAT I

MUST PASS AN OBJECTIVE LANGUAGE PAOFICIENCY TEST

BECOME ELIGIBLE FOR AN AMARO.

AND THAT IRRESPECTIVE OF

DATE OF TESTING.

ANNUAL MAIXTENANCE ANARDS MILL BE

CUMULATIVE

0f

THE

ANNIVERSARY

DATE OF COMPLETING

THE

DEFORE

THIS FORM.

DATE SIGNED

SIGNATURE

140)

Willian P.Punke

(07)

---

## Page 35

SECRET

GENERAL SCHEDULE SALARY INCREASE RETROACTIVELY EFFECTIVE

12 JANUARY 1958 AUTHORIZED BY PO LO 85 - 462 AND DCI

DIRECTIVE. SALARY AS OF 1S JUNE 1958 ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS

NAME

J RURKE WILLIAM P 'JR

SERIAL

101775

GRADE-STEP

GS-15-5

OLD jALARY

9.12,690

GORDON

IS! DIRECTOR

NEW SALARY

$13,970

STEWART

nE DERSONNEL

SECRET

---

## Page 36

14-00000

SECRET

emen Filled Ins.

PERIODIC SUPPLEMENT

PEESONAL HiSTORY STATEMENT!

INSTRLCTIONS

Thia foro prorides tha

moons sheredy your offic

personnel.

decorde vill de

information you dare

furn

івчед реогіоно.

necessiey loe you lo

if shero

ertiretr

Y'ou

need couplete

1f you

bell

Store!.

throu

1111 onl

Tieo coquiros poro

coopilaro

the ordanisation

THIS DATE

Evon though it dupillrates

since you-entereil on

preriously

reported.

GEMERAL

SECTION I

BURKS Allian Patriok jr.

CURRENT ADDRESS (NO., Seroel, defy.

§pate)

PERMANENT ADDRESS PÃO., SErPel, Cily. Zone, SParo)

SECTION !I

MANE

6300 Sto Charlos Áve..

6500 st. Charles At0..

Now Orleans It, Lia.

NUMBER

Miabrook T-2485

No. Orleans 10,

La.

3. STATE.

TERRITORY, POSSESSION OR COUNTRY IN MICH YOU NON CLAIM RESIDENCE

Louislana

PERSON TO BE MOTIFIED IM CASE OF EMERGENCY

ErRe-riddles PREFERABLY RESIDING IN U.S.

3. RELATIONSMIP

WIfe

MOME. ADDAISS (No., Street, Errr. dom. u.

Fountry).

6500 St. Chirlos ave., Nor Orloono 18, La.

BUSINESS ADONESS (VO., Seener, Erly, done, Stale.

COUTELY). INDICATE NAME• OS FIRM ON EMPLOYER. IF APPRICAOLE

nona

MOME

TELEPHONE MUMDER

8- BUSINESS TELEPHONE MUMBER

BUSINESS TELEPHONE EXTENSION

Thinbrook T-2485

EMERGENCY, OTHER ELUSE

RELATIVES (SpOuSE;

DOEASE SO STET) MAY ALSO BE NOTIFIED.

IF SUCH NOTIFICATION

IS NOT DESIRABLE BECAUSE OF MEALIN OR OTMER

xone

RECORD OF OVERSIAS SENVICE

ноУм

PLACE ANO REASUO SOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES ON ANMULMENIS

Never separatod,

divoruod nor marriage annullod

BILLIAN ENS

191 775

¡I'PLOYEE SERIAL NO.

3.

5452228

INSTR CTIONS

DO NOT

MRITE IN

VIGIN

THIS FORM MUST HE RETURE-TO

WHETHER YOU HASE HAD ONES.

SEAS SERVICE OR NOT.

PLEASE READ CAREFULLI LY.

STRUCTIONS ON ACCOMPANTIO

CARD, THEN TIL OUT THIS PORN

'ACCURATELY AS POSSIBLE

310

COMPLETED BY EMPLOVES

TELETHONE EXT.

2271

SECRET

WHEN FILLED INI

#'YES

DO NOT FOID.

STAPLE,

SPINDLE,

OR

MUTILATE

WHERE SERVICE

WAS l'ENTORMED

PCS - 1

TDY -2

TENTER

DATES

SEHNICE AS

R0S5 6814.6

V.B.

FROM

DO NOT

WRITE IN

NIMARY &

1717

OR AOKICY

TiS! YN"

312053832217742

1l.

Torratory of

- Haпa!-1-

1 Os 1 45|10 / 4512. US Marine CarAC

IF ADDITIONLL SPACE IS NEEDED CHEN ELKE

Housenifo

20. EMPLOYER'S OR BUSIMESS ADDRESS (NO..

not

employed

AND AS YOUR AOSISTRATVE OFFICER NOR SUPPENEVA CARDS

ail ino employers)

SECRET

SECTION TIT CONTINUEO TO PAGE 2

SECRET

13y 4446 u3s

1958 dre

STATEMENT

---

## Page 37

14-00000

SECRET.

• F: 81=1.871

SECTION I.I1

CONTINUED FADNI. PAGE 1

DATES OF MILITARY

SERVICE OF SPOUST (FION.

Sep 1942 - Deo 1945

¿8. BRANCH OF SIRVICTI

us Marine corps.

DETAILS

OF OTHER GOVCRRENT SERVICE IS OF FOREICN

GIA, New Okloana Mold Offloo, Sept 1947

'to dato:

INTEN

MiLITARY SERVICE ATFILIATCO

U. So

SECTION IV

RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION LIVING

ABROAD OR WHO ARE MOT U.S. CITIZENS

FULL

NAVE (LÃos-Firor-Hiddlà)

RELATIONSHIP

D. AGE

Hone.

A. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY. IN MNICH RELATIVE RESIDES.

CITIZCASHIP (CoUntry)

A- FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

7. DATE OF LAST CONTACI

1. FULL NAME (RADe-PirAl-Middia)

AOORESS OR COUNTRY IM MHICH ARIATIVE RESIDES

2.. RELATIONSMI

3.

AGE

3. CITIZENSHIP (COUNTrY)

FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

7, DATE OF LAST CONTACT

1. FULL NAME (LaNd-FOrSe-Widdle)

2. RELATIONSHIP

D. AGE

1. MODRESS OR COUNTRY IN MMICM RELATIVE RESIDES,

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country.)

B. FREQUENCY OF CONPACT

P. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

FULL NAME (LAST-Firer-MIddle)

RELATIONSHIP

3. AGE

A. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN MMICH RELATIVE AESIDES

CITIZENSHIP (COUNDRY)

18. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

DATE OF LAST CONTACT

3. SPECIAL REMARAS, IF ANY, CONCERNING THESE RELATIVES

SECTION Y

FINANCIAL STATUS

1 ARE YOU ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON YOUR SALARY'

rES

2.00 : OU MAVE

ANY FINANCIAL

INTEREST IN.

OR OFFICIAL

ron'.L1s44

мотн.

wIth U.S.

CONVOKET TONE 0: 405029929 14149 40074984

ANSMERED "YES."

GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS ON A SEPARATE SHEET AND ATTACH IN A SEALEN ENVELOPE.

IN OR

IF YOU HAVE

3. DO YOU RECEIVE AN ANNUITY FROM THE UNIDEO SUAL

PENSION. OR COMPENSATION FOR MILITARY

SERVICESTRIGT GE COLUMBIA GOVERNMEN UNUER ANY RETIREMENT ACT.

37 10.

1. IN YOU NAVE ANSMERED "YES" TO DUESTION O ABOVE, GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS.

I WITHOUT REFERENCE TO YOUR SALARI, STATE OTHER SOURCES OF RÉCURRENT INCOME NOT INDICATED: BY PRECEDING ITEMS.

Dividendo on stocks, ospital galne, interest, rents and an annulty.

SECTION

V CONTINUFO TO PAGE 3

SECRET

---

## Page 38

4-00000

•SECRET

fellen tn)

CONTINUED' FROM PAGE 2

SECTION

HE METTAN

whitney Rationil Bask

fbersta ratinal santi

Mallonal Neerican Barx

National: Bank of cotorco

annalis (gila, séete: Country)

Non Urloans, La.

?2/1tt 9k.

de:>

A'PF YOU MAVE

fres

ANSALALO "'IS" TO MASTIN E ARINE. GINe PARTICULARS.

17/0

INCLUDINE COURT ADO CAPRIS)

SECTION VI

FOUNIRN 0F

CUMRINT CITIELASTIO

U.

So

MIXE

rou.11ktN

SIEPs

FRESENT CITIZENSHIPS

CITIZENSHIP

ЗСOMIР

ACQUINEO HY • CNEIX (EI ONE.

→ 11111101

8. 6108

PARSICULARS

[x;•

S. IE NEU MAVE AMPLIED PON UIS.

arrisitiore:

MAGICATE DRESENT STATUS of YOUR ArPLICATIDO EPreSe papera, erc.y

SECTION VII

EDUCATION

EDUCATION ATTAINED

14MA44

Ovt"

MARIANOS

SUbJECT

DATE'S ATTENDID

MAMI ANU LOCATION dE GULLEGE dR iDidatS:",

DEGRIE

M:•0

REC •U

Loyola University af tho Soutà phil 'Eng

1916

1919

AB

1919

Harvard Lax sohool

Lam

1920

1923

1923

Cambridge Uniro, Ineland

000

1923

1924

ПОДО

Tulano University las Sahool

Law

1924

1925

IJ.B

1925

CONOISi:Le AND SPECIALIiIR SONDULS.

DATES dirEADAD

STUDO DE SPECIALIDATION

NAVE OF SCHOOL

none

MILITANY TRAININA (FUll DIRE MOT

¡lers situola auch as Urdnende, Arerlledesio.

SAME OF SCHOOL

§TITO DE SPECIALIZATION

pa:ts

Cunnuntcaltons.

AITESDEO

Readquarters uS l'arira Corps Willtary law

Oot 1584

Feb 1916

STNER EDUCATIONAL TRADIDÓ DET MAÓLÁDISE AZONE

Sercalys

?

?

TOTAL

HOURS

etc.)

TOTAL

NEEMS

about

SECRET

3

---

## Page 39

14-00000

SECRET

CTION VIII

GEOGRAEMI S

LISPARLOR

ANT FORCICE REGIONS DR COUNTRIES OF PUTS

ASSIGNMIAT

JINIO THAN DRGANIZATICNEN

DISALL INFE CE RACOLLOSE SUCH AS TERRAIN SOASTS

¿REd

KNOWLEDGE

adonipice cararo as a

• COLUMN

Canbridro, In.

ives or spieraurero asidicoce

Jorioral only

OF

KNOBUFOGE

INCUSIRISSA-POLITIES PARTICE.LIG

ТОЛК

ASSIGN.

TRAVEL

792346

кто.

TRAVTI

INDICATE INE PURPOSE OF VISIT.

RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL FIA RACH OR INE ARDIONS OR COUNTRICS LISTEO ADOVE

I artonded Trinity colloro, Carbridro, for ebout nino monthe.

ASBIGNUENT

COUNTRIES OF MMIEN YOU MAVE GAINEO AMDALEDGE AS A RESULT OF ORGANIZATION

DATES OF

TYPE OF SPICIALIZEO ANDRIEOGE

TRAVEL,

ers.

ANOWLEOGE

ACQUIRED BY

HDOTS

FIELD

ASSIGNMENT ASSIGNMENT

TRAIN

INO

NAME OF RECION OR COUNTRY

Hone

•

SECTION. 1X

TYPING AND STEMDGRNHIC SKILLS

8, ЗИОДГНАНО/П.Р.Н.

nono

S. STiP MATO SYSIIN USTO: CHECK IXI

SPEESRRITINGI

OTHER (Specily)'

INDICATE OTHER DUSINESS MACHINES MOTO MHICH YOU MAVE MAO OPERATIMO EXPERSLNCE OR TRAININO (COMPRORDIOR, MIGRO.

graph.

card Punch.

SECTION X

SPECIAL DUILIFICATIONS

VOICAL AM SPOON ON

DUALIFICATIODOUOESULTING FROM EAPIRIENCE OR TRAINING, OMICH MIGHT FIT YOU FOR A PARTIGULAS

COU SEER PETE NO PROPESSIONAL

EQUIPMENT

REGISTAY NOMEod'ON lio Bar o° Louisinna. Also lioensed to praotise deforo Foderal Courte

FIRST LICEN ADRE CERTIFICATE (YOOr Of 180Ue)

TO LATEST LOSSERDR CERTUFICATE (rOAR Of inaua)

SECRET

---

## Page 40

14-00000

SECTION X

SECRET

(then

Fullet in,

CONTIAUED-FROM PAGE&

jeila.

novels.

SIGNIFICADE PUPLISHIO MATERIALS OF

PURICATI

store ato.

NOne

ANCICATE AAY CANCES SNICH YOU MAVE IMPERITO ANO STATE QUETMLA OR NOT PREYARE PATINTED

requested,

aub.

CIST AMT PUBLIC SPLARINE AND PUDLIC AFLATIONS

To arrate

liono except publio speakiri, inoident to logal praculoo.

Hone.

SECTION XI

_CAGANIZATION WORK EXPERIENCE = SINCE LAST CUMPLCTION OF A PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS QUESTICRMAIRE

INCLUSIVE DATES

(Fron.

and To-)

FRAUr 5.

orrier orvision/ anance ur

ASSIGANENT

Sep 1947. to Paie

QS 15

Offoe of Operations/ Gontact D1r16100/ Sala

NO. OF FURLDIGES ÜNDER YOUM DIRECT

SUPERVISION

ORSICIAL POSITION TITLE

aESCRIPTION OF POTTES

10 (120. 3 MABO)1__ Chlof, New Orleans Plold Ofr1o0. -

Supervision and direction of professioral and olorioal employous. Carrying. out

polloy and operational direotives issued by hendquartors. maintaining liaicon

with other povermental agenoles. vollooting and reporting pooltive foresen

intolligenoe Information, Appropriato dutios inolduntal to the abovo.

INCLUSIVE DATES (From. and:To-)

GH'ADE

D. OFFICESDIVISION BRANCH OF ASSIGAMENT

NO.

OF EMPLOICES UNDER YOUR DIRICI

SUPERVISION

DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

OFFICIAL

POSITION TITLE

INCLUSIVE DATES (PION- and TO-,

NO, OF IMPIOIRES UNDIA POUR DIPECT

SUPERVISION

DESCRIPTION DE PUTIES

GRADE 3.

OFFICI/DIVISIUNiGHANCH DI ASSIGAMENT

OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

P. INCLUSIVE. DATES ( PROR- and TOO)

412. GRADI y.

OFTCE/DIVISION/BRANCH OF ASSTENMENT

NO.

EMPLOTIES UNDER YOUR DIRECT

SUPERVISISS

5.

OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

O. DESCRiPTION ME DUTIES

INCLUSIVE DETES (PrOS, aNd TO-S

но.

EMPLOTEES UNDER YOUR DIREST

SUPERVISION

O. DESCRIPTIDN DS DUTIES.

GRADE TO OFFICE/DIVISION/AMANCH OF ASSIGAMENT

OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

SECRET

---

## Page 41

14-00000

SECTION XII

1. NuMpin.

and stops

SECRET

fallen los

CHICONEA AND OTHER DEPLNDEN:S..

Put ins

+ A00 1

(акол,, чно

40 г

EMILOTING- iNFORMATION TOO

RELATIONSNIP

ulto

daughter

AVORESS

BSUO St. CA'FlAS ATO

Mom Urloring lee La.

1908

1957

08

08.

ADOTIONAL COMMEND AND/ON CONTINUATION OF PRECEDING TENS

DATE COUPLETEO

SIGNATURE OF RUPLOYEE

SECRET

---

## Page 42

01947

foc

Ise late,

26may/947

Тіла -і1

TA TNA

saizzanl.

Nudiy the circo mith wihrit

APPLICICION FOR FEDERAL EMPLOY INT

"mentis

/

Pur a Fari Na 30÷208

4257

M. 11i

oth

thie appaltatin ut uty chariga in

DO NOT WHITE IN THIS RIOCK

Anteri s

Dj Sul rallied

3. Flaco d arploymers artile

JArpor.

57 4-п.12333

"N' tutti il ang)

71111am Patrick Burko, Jr.

(6001)

6300 st. Charlos Avo.

OPTION

GRADR

"ATING

Mittele

Ei $

AIICM

KAI!NO

Now Orleano, La.

8. Erog. ne 8. 80141

LOu1sIane

UP 1447

UP 1447

Dipinta,

Now Orleans, 1

18.

22 Oct. 1900

11. 5e Muia

(1 Fissile

202

ga 505

Хла. 1123

vanil.

ні моше ве

ITALING

Major"USacR (" Inactivo duty) 15

Aug. 1945

Yii

(18, ii) Il pou mail nucupt u;suntount in cartain in Ulina ChiY, Jiro accourotia

NO)

x

l'allund:

New Orleans, La.

13, su World you anet abertiere ostri a erad.

3 su ci soniha?...

óN 12 rnentiis?...

X..

x...

ia) Wouid you accopt appuintuent il tarast

in Washinahra, D. C:2......

....

(1) What 13 lho lomodl ontrano salury ru mllairert. S. SCQQ.DQ

gar your.

You will nol be consulesed las posilione paring tea

O Coratanät

outendo the Unitrl Siarosi...

Datee N amplostant: (Munth, your)

and ortimes ot empiuyur

diviaton:

inga band her, ott

Numbor and kind al orpiyyaco suporion Ty pi

Nato and tuo e indacuir ruporrier.

Roason tor dealino lo chango dastoyert

-_ Te present tma

PRESENT POSITION

500

appendix "A".

Desiription of your wurk:

Sertura $

trar

....per

10-47788-9

(CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE)

---

## Page 43

4-00000

2:2375d

See appendix "B"

Taurisg

Era namoral a cat a hia muning

•Sula ul duty armyrment lesaitia, yoara):

Locution:

Doira attendat (raonihe your:"

Fr'es:

To:

(9) Duly andunment afer this tralsing:

Distão of dury aruyncers (unita, yorro).

From:

Latoan poprato abral ol papas abe narilional esporia na quiaco, retin, o trarici calo 2ic noniaderiad a lesto areno se Sapitalieatra

Schoole Na Orleange L8e

Mara (1) lhe apareitale tus to indicala salaloclury arcapinai si-

Bastiah, Historye

1u) Numse arl Locution al Collajo or Univeraty

MaisT

Harvard Law Schoole Cambridg®

Iulsna Unisaraity.Nol..La

(1) Lial Yons Chies Untorga dudio Cura;o Sutjosis

philosopbyIng: Scienca

Law:

Го-.

2275

-: 1919

2950

1923

10€k

1035

Diane tirami

'nin

AB

IJ.B

ILBI

1939

1923

1905

1-41t9

Limit

.."s

Lan and English Litta

Spent year (1923-1924) at Trinity Gel1,

Costarde Waly. Desland in Base Litt.

10 CIT

Ansiel turina

АЛАНІ Ф

Na tao corr

Judgo Advocato Genoral of Navys

USHC Instituto

Fras

-Justico

-Fest-Exchango Aotg.

1914

--1945

SEADO ! SPEAKING UNCASTYS1

Firma = frior

11-9807

I Tra

No

Franch

Giro kini el leanno sal Siuto

Lawyer: Loutiana

Continuous.

de cato

School and privato lessons

os musicon 1"

raiator:.

Fractising lauyer. In New Orleans for about

sisteen years, norber lar Orleans and

Ionisiana Stata Bar Associationa.

colmas remier d mardo por mirua in tora. 40 simual.

---

## Page 44

14-00000

2 SET NINI

FiLi NAVE

Fred N. Cgden

29, dra 519,3 raram 51 tho lan190; 50).

RECENEU

thoun tet

(Gira constön is tred andreeting pirel prof murator)

P.P. Miltney Nettonal Bank, N. 0-10

Coürt of Appeale,

Ney Gourt Housd BIdge, Ma Da Las

American Bank. Bldg. N. O. La:

YF&;

X.

77. brohen

23

отти

un torsi

juni in

bUra5o1

• 70?

haiu you

orlasin

minor traitie verbalauna

поз незд якуя эта,і-.внав.-л.с..--.

J0. Do you racame In serat tomia U S.arD C Gruerreont

tor

a cresce yo surapion

C.70)138 2: -01r9re0nt

PINEA.

..x..

.Х

. X

..x

.Х.

andar

- Judga

ВгокоГ.

NO.

-=.

invert. in

so e frutto do watt Stan try or hort

a) la the word "lumerat lo" un the mure''

б....

Inaativo

Mich hi ma fry puy and 20412003.0

Dista e espansion or copier dore:

8 Sept. 1942

Inactive duty

-29 Deca 1945

Sorial le la nero, dina grado or Mistra al

f.. dc.)

USWOR

013458 Major USTOR

AN-WARS

TO

T:S QUECTION (10

VETEYNI

INCATE

IF APPOINTED.

FECUISED

PRIOR

SEA DIAE

SUEMIT PACOY OP DISCRANCE AESIERZTION

NO

37. 1a) il you gerardin the U

ly receima ONLY, du yoi pastieloute in a cam

21 Aro you a dasbia volurono ..

x....

X...

-X--

THIS SPACE FOR USE OF APPOINTINO OTTICE ONLY

und by tue, peron with the dlacharga caratocala on---

.-----_ IS. ---

pra': 793--499-111

34 2119 кк свв.11 Г. дет _291л?

ii mus 234--15 10

1÷7-220-4:S1295.2-21014

IL V: 35--Doloctito.distant.818100,

-oorToctod.by.g188808..

229:959-946 19959589'96599 aio 301u8. 1040.

DEL PRENENE CO CHES APERLANDO IS PUNSHARLE HY LAS

no 26 Trag

7 114).

9r533.

1am 1A1.4

FUSSA INES MES 58

---

## Page 45

14-00000

WILLIAM P. BURKE

AFFERDIX "A"

MIS DI CH ENICHENT

(500, 21 1n Fora 2a:58 Ses, 16 In USCiO Sti, Fara 57)

1s a carplete recount of sy burinans and profossienal notiritios

since ry return do dir: orlouis, sa intire, tr tie pai: of 1024.

I hail ostrinoi e

lau coee dici larvard in 10t3, tur, so tho let of lortolano.

differe in many tinortont restret. fier Mie Coerer larg: entered duiano Chivorsity

Jaw school, ti Molotor 19:11

te mudi joud rien iivi? Coir subdoeti Ir the afiernoora

1 torted ne. a regeRrelor for le ler ti di lorert, iliere, thulce mni lisiber,

(пон т!.??8,

Tii Co. l'icio, te

i from

rescrd de louleiera

Far

oxiniset irrü,

rni eriteror prrcita.

Man, añ ? recull 1t, dInas? per:

foce on tle burinoco atlet I

ed by re'o': ci the flir, str te

cllonito ei

the Er.y

arall tott chict Ind

teon crocrige!

to oper. a irrt Deportment,

of

7145-91407.

ier isteent pert

trist

Cc.g

Per yenre protirio. In Ii86 thri.ni decidei

eris tir

accolirte, imuriirg tio

recalveri.iis.

Ir ?02l 9he discruat degetira

difficütiee,

INe,

"en tle pertention

over ly tle Interataio Cruc! ! i:

etod

OlentiEr 51:12,

DIS

custod: cit) ip

cinter, aurindeterine astrano and herdiirg

Per riloore Sanl & Truma Co. ort Irte

rinoritera:

Che aille land ora toles

no tipi

crlate. to Tore mi nutfered by

tengo ari!

ment ar: tre felicios of lle 1ine:

advarerent, in t rabilmed trit !'

In trE Pall o: 1931 I elçrni:

on canr" Sta: 190.1305

bo

derite: jor tle aclo

ricciari:

poteres.

prosec tricasttle, :::

ation -restitin,

ind I lirnidated

Alze.

Prio thed

tho entirer-

reite to tiry 1attle prespect tir

link mon torereet e rovirg-letter

in he: York, derelrios

stricteas

cotirasie!

rale the opote

cor: o:a! 100: in ili durly peri nt 19.

bon rietirire las terelles silen discistáon, und vere leci la quale 0ue G:9:12. 516y

iledett

Dostoel l terriri: è curde. dor te vent fire yourg de ancad in tra gonoral ciril

procilue el lud in cil Citjo dinno mo Foucral Coulo.

arting ti

r:iere fid

iie:

ci tie loond dall"

pupel's,

con orrisonn ard iidivinuaia.

thie

colo Meia re cirli corioriio iii rividil tractice: il:g.

preparatón al Micacinta, in estinyso ritiensos, ercuridra itication, do tira lrjess,

erfuin erges in tia inetent en eifelicis couto, daituire titeo, eliniaterare

ontatou, haniling tesetion riport,

алліш.

I regime fren tle fir in l?'" cra

office: ar the Coral Farl Autle':F,

mitil i anierei atliisin

D:IVICE 17: 1'44019 LUCCE-O

during 1l:e perina murira loreer fire au elmi ipnasard éctiera.

1045. 11:39

exocuter in her sall, erd, ef'es s5 potuti, i 8009t rossi esithe 1r. idatrietering

---

## Page 46

14-00000

WILLIAM P. BURKE.

APFENDIX. "A"

the outate, transfuring the securitiou and vorlfrig out suce rather complicatod

taxa 1 er rettoro..

¡I had decléed, trilo in servico, thet I ild rot munt to roturn to active lin.

practinó tho cllonto I ton lic tofora tly tar voro balrio ionnataly corved by other

attotroys, ard 1t

told here nernt s'urtine aid ovor again fron serutch. I did not

vant to do trat,'80 I vogar, lookirc jer a busineso in which i oculd invest ospital

and by sorricos, liaturally, l haù courd quite a for, bist nons, an you, thion-nooro

oy raquiremento.

Irre a merler or palcure ni Directers of 1ho follming coriointlias:

tie cruist revort

ing bus noiss to Car1ll Fe:lty Coo,

" family real eitato compenys

The Laustule Moul intute Coopilu,, of 10n irlourio ari:

Lit elo Sorricei, Inco, =

orpiny chle: Bar.0 01' try Basociates

and I orgaised seesntly to operala

1n this territory.

I into icon antivo án cirio butiors, actino ai toil captain in drivon of 1r0

commundty Chort, and have talen paro is drives ly tie isi Croes, die inti tuberculouis

• Sueloty, tio ianenr iccialy, eto, I to a meries of the board of the Claldien'o Burocu,

• Cheat agoney, and a murier oi 1te firuico coicities.

---

## Page 47

14-00000

WILLIAM P. BURKE

AFFENDIX "5"

(500. 16. In Poil 22058 Soco 19 in USso Std. Form 57)

In -tl:e

errine of love the mur caro pretty pleso to dier erlecio, shore voro aub

marinos in

cuis,

tarkore nere boirs terpedond as tloy loft the rivos, and tle

hospitale dere sillad tit berrimly buimer serier. I mas anxtoud to do tiat I could.

but I felt trat at siy aso thoro via littlo loço of tadino on activo purt. i boomo a

Air Ruto Dardorig

an! huspri dell sone tes Fonday ai è thought thai vau bout all I

moula ha abio to do:

Tren the lerino corno caro out viti as arrowserent tet aconiastina vera cren

1r Arlation Intellliones do sen up to 1s yours of a'e.I san the kocruitin; officos,

arù ho rrea erlod no pur itici a coinilarla joilini haujero for sero tino, so shen

I nas son! In "ashingto. cu buonicus I doni tu larire Corto l'ondgertory and Inulöd p

uocolcur? Intford, shar I had land in ler Crieste.

He reerrainod that trintion Intolligence tuo fillod up, but atrior! t'at to

would di pli to tava rie in tre coorillini Dirloior, uni thit Illert trirator to

Aviat.on miall1gence later on. i tae dellattor to tet into the larino corpo, and

acconted a cariseica

Aftir an Inchotrination course at quantico, la., I sia ordored to sen Antor.lo,

T'exo, an sartelent recrutine afligor. ? turcined thire fes tiroe controp duroting

noot of my tiro to the strucet ce.less

collegos.

Ir.

Deeirt: 5,

1car, the turino Corpag

exclusivaly irlantoir cronicationg do placea

and terina

Corpo lionúguariora cocicou to fuilos tle ese of tho lasy aid arpoint

a l'arino officer do ildon to croi suaio incuriiro carico lacdguartoro. i sas one

of these npoiriod, und nas orderod tu raioigi, touo ou li étiary 1942.

The

poAl al Marois: tas 010 Ci sono Sptilanes Loesiso of tho 15578 liriro Corpo

varines para in tradirão sau

Involving sorural lunarad millions of anliore mie in operation. It teo my duty to

superviso to inuuction os mia ioni, Carclita selettes alo soin uscigned, to tlie

Larino corna chrough tha salesiivo jaitico syster, ela lo rogrouint tre tardous

l'arino corps installntions. in their desiings and claputas with local druft soards

concertina

tho dofercant un alout rivo diousand ciritima esuloyoos.

In cidition, I tocò an eorivo port ir tha sicilia ration of ilo sulociito

Service Festruartore in isitiel ald troughout the otsto, intorvioniso rarictrunts,

their cariovery erd dependante, devicari. Local

aru aiposi bourdt, setting up replaco-

mant ertodclei for varsore iluitirico ula frödire ca die nerico o: Lio:f oleven

thousarà agreals.

¡ho port vas interertire una proibelito, ani traso in kalciel rio cartainly

"good duty", but I lic never lost my redira

for ofirecas duiy ari rido tuo artempto

to transpes to Allurico, toti of dli.! sile

teard that latino Divisions prirsons sele dacly in neec of legui CfiiCere, MC I

todintelj appllos for errnater. I sua orvierei to idedcuoro for Incortrination,

ardo siter a ini er dire in tie orfico di ile durio carcerto Cordal ei ho da15, I

Mas per to curp loicune in intruart l 15 for furter talnángo In Apria 1945 I sadlod

fron son pomodoco, ard dr l'ag I joined 1l0 jouth teriro Liviaton, Iloar Larito

Porco, laelite, au l'eui, aù livioica ieral liricio, i contirued in ther rost until

tie mar anced and i irreurod a transfer to the insetira l1st.

l'opino tirinirn consisto ni agprextrately I!,'XC DOn, Che DIUliJOn 102E:

officer is directle ruomiblo to the corrandine Ceneral for tho suriniarration os

=1l1ts:: destico thrantost dre enrend, and simerisos tre sort and fincinis of a?l

Generai, ipriary asd rodi pourts, es 59"l no t'oça al all Boarda of Investicutton

and Coji: a: "acuirá, lo ndrino: tho Cere sdin: carrral or the cotion to lo talor.

as Converoire Authority er Inodiate Suririor in Comard. In addition le ectioes tlo

Comani " Funural aid Chie? Or Ciuli en al? lerid est are arinine out of contsot tir

natives, siti civiliun esi military autheriles and viti tle onoro od traicire diere

---

## Page 48

4-00000

• WILLIAM P. BURKE

AFFENDIX "B"

used by the troope. l'orcovor, to reto do loyal fortotarco Op'icor to tho Diviaton,

which Involvud, durins sy tem of offico, the givine of lopul advico and servico

to alout elatit hurdred Inegreeunic.

I roturred to the Uristod statoo on 25 Detober 1945, and comploted my torrinal

on 1? Locomber 1945..

Dur!nE sy toro ol ierrice ty superioro rendured reporte on my fitncas ouch

ninots deya. All o! thoco reperto tere faroraula, où rosy of los containod courca

dationo. I rao tranolod to lajor in juguot l 45,

to rain from day 1843, and I 1i01d

a pormanent carianion as lajor in tho lonerve. ly filo niebor lo

ії.."

---

## Page 49

14-00001

SECRET

earen Failed ins

FITNESS REPORT (Part I) PERFORMANCE

INSTRUCTIONS:

FUE TUE MISESTRATIVE DEFICIE ConsulT current instructions lor

this report.

is designeditó

he lip

conduation of your

rubervinase and to sapnsmi!

evaluation

to your

riate shiere

he?,

strengths

under.

anita

condition

tereonniel nin

SECTION

MANE

supervisor

and, senior ifficials:

jou inform the suborld.

cher letion

of

eit in Rre

the

later than

• 30 Млуй

policy

help:

•you

prep

for

dracupcion dish him of his

at lan

that you

"hon fart lot

this tenor?

employce encipl

It is

recommerler that

you real the entere

fora before

ön

employer

coupleting

if must

•Phe itate anicated

rem'A:'of-Section

amp lieged and forwarded to the pffice of

bilor.

GENERAL

SERVICE, DESIGNATION

(first)

BURKE,

Willian

(Middle)

DATE OF BIRTH

22 Oct 1900-

3. OFFICECOVISION/BRANCH.OF.ASSINUES?

3.- SEX

N

O: OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Operations/Contact/Nev Orleans office

IO (Contact) (Ch)

8. DATE REPORT DUE IN SE

D. PERIOD COVEARO ON MIS RIPORT (InClUdINA

darea)."

GS-15

10.

TYPE

OF

REPORT

9 September 1957

9/9/56 - 9/8/57

splinde (Specily)

(Check

SECTION D.

CERTIFICATION

+OR

THE RATER:

NOT:

THIS REPORT L NAS LESS MAS NOT DINA SHORN TO THE IMOTVIQUAL RATED, 1E MOT SMOMN, EXPLAIN WHY

Subject 18 stationed in Loulstana.

CHECK (X) ARPROPRIATE

STATININTS:

NEPORT ERECTO

OR THIS 1400.

X

DARNING

1N OPINIONS Or MaSte

CAMMOT

EVALNATE

IMUIVIQUAI

arcaUsE (Speedly)'

B TH

THIS DATE

C.

TYPIOLAS PRINTED

NAVE AND SIGNATURE DE SUPERVISOR D.

SUPERVISOR'S OFFICIAL TITLE

31

0it 57

mischa

mr. E. Mo Asbcraft

FOR THE REVIEMING OFFICIAL

FORMATION.

RECORD ANT

DIFFEMENCE

OPINION WITH THE

1244

144 CETTEr

THIS REPORT.

ANY OTHER IN.

Posted Pos. Carticl

DATE

18-1-57

Reviewied by Puù.

Ket 11-15)

I certady that any substant

the supervisor in reflected in the above section.

THIS DATE

3100et1957

оліг)

•1160

CHATURE OF REVIEMING

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

SECTION

C.

10B PERFORMOR EE U CarE Most stant Director for

Operations

RATING DO GENERAL PERFORUANCE OF DUTIES

DIRECTIONS:

Consider ONLY the productivity

his duties durine the

sibalily,

5

INSERT

RATING

NOWHER

DOES YA CURE DURES ARATATUNE COS ERE SPECIFIC GUIDANCE DE TRAINING, ME OFTEN FAILS TO

14 PERFORMANCE.

RESPOnsIBILITiEs.

3 .

PERFORMS VOST DE NIS DUTIES ACCEPTABLY, OCCASIONALLY REVEALS SOME AREA DE DEANNESS.

PERFORMS DUTIES

IS A COUPETENT.

EFFECTIVE WANNER.

PERFORMS OUTIES CASES COURSE REST SELLE CORE SEE DEMER PERSONS XiON TO

THE

SUPERvISUR..

CONCHENTS:

FORM NO.

I NON 55

45 (Part 1) os

FOTUS AS AND ASA UNICH

PIS SECRET

ARI ODSULETE

Performance

---

## Page 50

14-00000

SECRET

Caron Fillait:y

2. RATING0-04 PORTISUAACE OT

DIRECTIONS:•

the tase imperone firet.

Rate performance on carl

mill almayo bé entril no.

superride o apicorary,

porsible, the individual being inseal

with: die some

Job, rifle may be performindMilferene

ramples of ine kind of dutter thiar mistie be rared fal

pa porformine the sane duty as a

il so, rate shra on üifferent.

41at1ra

and pione operas iris..

CONDUCES INTERRAGATIONS

PREPARES SUMMARIES

ONCTING SAYINARS

AVALYZES INDUSTRIAL REFORTS

TARYSLATES GERMAY

DIHRIEFING SUÜRCES •

KARPS DOOKS.

CUURDINATES MITH OTHER OFFICES

DRIVES TRUCK.

MAINTAINS AIR CONDITIONING

PRECARES CURRESFONDEVCE

further it supervasor considere de alvirable, cig..

SIGVIFICANCE OF DATA

combaneid kry!

n the cáse of i radio operator

DESCRIPTIVE

RATING

NUSABER

INCOUPETENT

IN

THE

BARELY ADCQUATE

ME PIRFORMANOE

THIS

tHE PERFORMANCE OF

DUTY

DUTY

THIS

9 ..

PERTORUS THIS

DUTY -ACCEPTADLY

PiRFORMS THIS DUTY IN A COMPETENT MANNIR

PERFORMS

TMIS

DutY

IN

SUCH

THAT HE IS A DISTINCT ASSET

04

MANNER

PERFORNS

THIS DUTY

LAR MODS

EXCELS

THIS DUTY

ANTONE I KNOW IN IME PERFORMANiE OF

AC DUTY MU. A

NUMNED

Obtaining the

KATING

effective support of non-governiental

NUMBER

Managenent of domestic fleld office

Analysis of assigned area for

Intelligence potential

6

sources and contacts in his area

6

KATING

NUNDER

Elica vita Federal and local agences. Mi

and officials in bís area

The planning and carrying out of

wurs Support of "öther elements of CIA

effective intelligence callection

1n his area

J. NARRATIVE DESCRIPTICN DE MANNER DI TOO PERFORMANCE

DIRECTIONS:'Stre9s itrengths and wonknesses,

particularly those whach affect development on present job.

Complete Integrity; knowledge of area, famillarity with source potentials and attitudes,

close cooperation of non-governmental sources at high level; loyalty

Somewhat Inclined to take legalistic approsch to relationships with other

elements of CIA and other IAC local representatives, with consequent lose of fledbility!

SECTION D.

SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JOB IN ORGAMIZATION

DIRECTIONS:

Take

everythink you know

personal charactoriaraca of habita,

acau lage chaud the individual nobod stir in candycere ano 108.

pare

hua

with others

doing similar work of about the same lovel.

Pre1011441 1290024912

MOULD NOT HAVE ACCEPTED MIM IF I HAD

DOUET UL SUTRAL EURON COULD CO HAVE AGEDUTO MIE NO MADESSES SONAL I NIOR OUTSTANDING TO AARO

A BARRIS SEPARATSON

OF THE SAVE

SUITADILITY AS MOSY PEOPLE I KATY IN THE ORGANIZATION

A FINE EMPLOYEE •

HAS SOVE OUTSTANDING STRENGINS

NТ4ULR

THE REQUIRENENTS OF THE ORGANIZATION

EXCELLED

SUITADILITY TOR WORX IN THE ORGAMIZATION

THIS INDIVIDUAL BETTER SUITE FOR WORK IN SOME OTHER POSITION IN THE ORGANIZATIONI

IF DES.

EXPLAIN

FULLY:

SECRET

---

## Page 51

14-00000

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT (Pirt Il); POTENTIAL

ASTRUCTIONS

PIE THE AMINISTRATIE OTICER Conaule current inderuceions for complerang shia repore.

OR. THE SiTERViSOR: 'This report do a privileged commericaiion to your supervinor

and to appioprinte, carter

manage

sent, ind

perionnel officials concerning-

potentiali of the

maloyee hrang.ratei

IP iN., NOT

100.

be. strom to the

entire report brfore.complering

any. question.

Midaireport; is

than 90dlays,

she do daja lian cloosed.

completed anil forwardeit so she la no laier than jo days

INITLAL FELLAT. On

however.rie. musT b.

¿he due does indicared in itema of section ip. elon

SECTION

€.

MAME

GENERAL

"(LaSS)

"(Farat)

BURKS

3:

(viadio)

Pos Jr.

oF

BIRTH

22 Oct 1900

M

UAFICE/DEVISION: BRANCH OF ASSIGNUENT

UFFICIAL. POSITION- TITLE..

Operations/Contact/New Orleans Office

TO (Contact)

•. DATE REPORT QUE IN OP

PENIÕO COVERED BY TMIS ALPORT (Incluario dardo).

GS-15

9 September 1952

9/9/56 - 9/8/57

1о..

0f

• 190€

perfine (Speckly)

(Chock-ono)

SECTION

SERVICE-DESIGNATION

OC

CERTIFICATION

RATER:

CERTIFY THAT THIS REPORT REPRISENTS MY BEST

JUDGEMENT OF THE INDIVIDUAL

BEING RATED

'THIS DATE

31 Ot 57

RA TURE

SUPERTISONE, SUPTAVISOR S OFFICIAL TITLE

FOR THE REVLEMIN

OAT AND NOTORIOTERER, CORTONE ATALO

OPINION. IN ATTACHIO MEMO.

THIS DATE

AND SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVILVING OFFICIAL

31084450)

2914Y George G. Carey Assistant Director for

SECTION

G:

• ESTIMATE OF POTENTIAL

Operations

POTENTIAL

TO ASSUME

1A1411621

RESPONSIBILITIES

DIRECTIONS:

Considering. öthers

prade and

dypo of asslenmens.

rate the

responsibilities.

Think

terms

of

the

mployro's potentio

rosponsibility encountered it the various levels in his kind c

work.

THE 2TOT

THE

HAS

TNE

WHICH

ICTORY PERFORMANCE CAN DE EXPECTED

OS MORE

ISFACTORY

PERFORMANCE CAN

CAN

HE TRAINED TO

EXPECTED

ASSUME GREATER RESPONSIBILITIES

2

READY

ASSUMING UHLATEH

SPONSIBILATIES

ADJUST: QUICKLY

DUTIES DITHOUT FURTHER TRAINING

ALREADY

ASSUMING MORE

RESPONSIDILITIES THAN

EXPECTED AT HIS PRESENT LEVEL

жно

15

ONE

o+

THE FEM MHO SHOULO NE CONSICEREO ONR FARLY ASSUMPPION OF HIGHER

NUMBER

SPEHYIS041

DIRECTIONS:

Aramer

answer

is YES,

this

question:

ilas this person

the

abality

to ho a supervisor?

If your

Indiento belor your opinion or purss of the level

of supervisory abality this person

will reach AFTEr

SUITABLE TRAINING.

Indicate your opinión

by placing the number

the descriptive roting below which

comes closers

expressing your

opissaon

in the

appropriate column.

the

your rating is based on abserving hea

note your

-rating in

"actual" column.

if

based-on openion

of hix parential, note

the

colunn.

DESCRIPTIVE

RATING

NUMBER

ACTUAL

3

P0T2AT4-11

MAVE NO OPINION ON NIS SUPERVISOR

THIS SITUATION

BELIENE

INDIVIOUAL

WOULD RE

A MERK SUPERVISOR IN THIS KIND OF

SITUATION

INOIVIDUAL

WOULD BE AN

AVIHAGE

SUPERVISOR IN

THIS KINO OF

SITUATION

BELIEVE INDIVIDUAL

WOULD BE A STHONG SUPERVISOR IN THIS SITUATION

DESCRIPTIVE SITUATION

sidledes of variova

• And a dreader a danoraphoro dochrecono croved cioral la

3

daQUe di SUedAVISORs eNA CIRECT ME BASIC D00 (Second lano supervisoro)

3

3

SANCT

"secure lovel,

ONIA COMINGS DITH INNEDIATE

SUBORDIMATES IS

NOT PARQUEMI

MORE CONSOLATE SUBOROIDATES AGTIVITIES

DOUGAIN

AND MIXO CAPITUL

COORDINATION

3

3

DINE COMIDIATE BUBOROIMATES

MEMORAS OF THE

aruso (Sporaly)

REPLACES PREVIOUS EDITIONS

ORONS: 45

(Part 11) OF FORMS AS AND ASA MICH

SECRET

ARE

DESULTE.

Potential

---

## Page 52

14-00000

SECRET

рос: fіleА'!o)

IMDICATE. INT APPROXIMATE NUMBIR OF, MORTHS

• Сентві сочеленне РОстит!

Hashtagton.

seas position.

SECTION M.:

FUTURE PLANS

TMAININO OR OTMER DEVELOPMENTAL EXPERIÉNCE PLANNES FOR TME INOITIOUAL

No further, tralntag or experience planned or considered necessary, with the exception

of periodic mectings of the CD/00 field chiefs.

MOTE OTHER FACTORS.

PIRSONAL CIRCUNSTANCES.

See Section G(4) above.

INTO ACCOUNT

SECTION

DESCRIPTION OF INDIVIDUAL

DIRECTIONS:

the

words

literally.

of

Tria section the rovide as an oder de soibine

the individual as you see him on the job.

Interpret

series of

starraents that apply in inne degree to most. poople.

the left

itatement 'is a bos under

cateRory numbor.

which-best

the heading

"саведоrу."

Read each statrpione

and insert in the box the

tella how much the sentracnt applice

so the person coveral by this sopore.

Х .

HAVE

NOT OBSERVEO THISI MENCE CAN GIVE NO OPINION AS TO MOM THE DESCRIPTION

APPLIES

IMDIVIDUAL

APPLIES

TO THE INDIVIDUAL

TO THE LEAST POSSIBE DIGREE

CATEGORY NUMBER

APPLIES TO INDIVIQUAL

.

APPLIES

INDIVIOUAL

то

A LIMITRU

DEGREE

A11144L B16147

APPLIES TO INDIVIDUAL

ABOVE AVERAGE DEGREE

TO INOIVIDUAL

OUTSTANDISG DEGREE

CATEGORY

STATEMENT

CATEGORY

STATEMENT

CATSOSAY

STATEMENT

3

ADLE

POLATO, "I ANORMER'S

11.

4

ERRECEIVE

DITH ASSOGIATES

5

4

18.

ANDOS ORIGIDALITY

1O1 898 00 0d0 perlia

MATIATINE

5

19.

ACCEPTS

3.

4

4

83.

18 THOUONTRUL dO OTHEAS

5

3

14.

ADM188 MIS

4

:84.

PORNO ORLE UNDER PRESSURI

5

TROVES COMSTANTLY

190018088

4

19.

DESPOROS DELE TO SUPER.

DISPLATO

On 8.

10 818R

ASSISTANCE

4

18.

ODES MIS DOS

DI THOUT

870048

SUPPORT

SECURITY CONSCIOUS

5

it7.

COMES

1712.

4

3

3

127.

i s

PERRATILE

DIMORY

BAGTA

4

I29.

10.

18

SOSKANONY

CRITICISO 18 COR.

STRUCTINI

5

GETS THIMES DONE

18.

4

138.

18111 C60827

10.

C AN

COPI DITH EMBREIACIS

4

20.

'''.

13о.

RACILITATIS

8000ти 0010

810м

ORDICE

D019

COMTIAUOUS

SECRET

---

## Page 53

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT (Part 1) PERFÖRMANCE

MASTENCTIONS

Do me desister myricia consult rulent entructure for compler lie thie reme!

miner let he spend witch

strengthi and weakneiro.

unúri

conittion's

apecified in

any question.

thin

Feisonnel,

than J0'ilays

SECTION

alaçy. 911a8. you

Tart tof

écommended, that yoü seal

the

entire

form tefore

от.

she emilayrie.

it must

of linction

he solen

mal formerlael. do the nilico

belon.

(Firat).

(Medale)

OF ,0

W1111an

2 Oct 190

ICT. 083129689,09

OC

OFFICE/OTVISION MHANCH OF ASSICHMENT

FOrEICIAO POSITTON TITA

Operations/Contact/New Orleana Office

IO (Contact)

HERONY. DUE

PESINO IDNINED

IMIS RIPONT (dRiluDino dales)

GS-15.

9 September 1956

9/9/55 - 9/8/56

TURE OF REPONT

(Chock.

1M1T1A1

one)

sorcras (Spoilly)

SECTION B:

__ CESTIFICATION

1..4ОВ ТИС ЯЛТГВ.

THIS REPORT LINAS OXI NAS NOT PIEN SOURN TO THE PADITIONAL RATEO. TO NOT SHOWN. TAPLATE ANY

NOTI

Subject 18 stationed 1n louisiana.

CHECK

(X) APPROPDIATE

STATEMENTS:

^ sM

+18+41111

"cAuse (Soochly):

ANO

THIS DATE

7 Nir 56

Machina/"

AND SINNATUME

OF• SUPERVISOR D. SUPERVISOR'S OFFICIAL TITLE

5. M.

FOR

ASECRAFT

Chief, Contact Division

THE REVIEMING DELICIAL

RECORO ANT SURSTARTIA

OPINION BITM

FORMATION.

WHICH FILL LEAD TO A BETTER UNDERS

THE

SUPERVISOR, OR ANY OTHER 14-

RATE

Turn "il'.

I certify thee any subaranteal difierence of

opinion sall the supervisor in reflected an lie nbove section.

A. THIS DATE

SIINATUHE DE

ACVIEMING C. OFFICIAL

TITLE OF HEVICHING ORFICIAL

24orp 7.

LAt:1441 CDORGE G. CAREX Assistant Director for

SECTION C.

J08 PERFERMANCE EVALUATION

Operations.

RATING ON GENERAL PERFORMANCE OF DUIIES

DIRECTIONS:

Conxedor (NLY the produceivity on!

eftririveness

nth which the andiridual being rated hai

nas dutses

during the

rapane period.

C'ompare him iN:)

with others doine similar

rida ring needed rhaps.

sibilary.

Factors alber than productively mill de rades into account later in serpion D.

5

RATING

10H6LN

DOES MUT TARIONY DUTIRE APLUUATELY

INIONPETENT.

BARELY

ADEQUATE

IN PERFUMMANCE.

AL'MDION HE NAS HAD SPECIFIC GUIDANCE OR TRAINING. ME OFTEN PAILS TO

CARAT

3 .

PERFORMS MOST OF HIS DUTIES ACCEPYADiT.

P¡CASIONALLY REVEALS SOME ARIA OF MEAKNESS.

PERFORMS

DUTIES IN A

COMP RYEAT.

PEHFORMANCE,

GERRITINE

CARRIES OUT MANY

MAINLA

PERFOR S AFORMANCES CARRUER DU JUTSTAR CL GRUNER THAT HE IS COULLES BY

THE SUPERVISOR.

COICIENTS:

FORM NO. 45 (Part 1)

1 400 55

REPLACES PREVIOUS

OF

FORMS AS AND AND OMICA

PIG SECRET

OBSOLETE.

Performance

---

## Page 54

SECRET

SARGITIC OUTIC.

nie of thee epreefie duty

individuala

ditles.

Die

apricifle.

tramples if the kind of durres that miche he

do performine dellerene duries.

PRITARES SiNVARIES

ITH OTHER OFFICES

TAKINO DICTATION

MAINTATOS AIR CONDITIONING

di.. 10r- some jobs.

mutes may

C.01111

RATING

DARtir PORGuAre

THE PRRFOPM

DUTY

. 9 .

PERFORMS TENS DUTY AN APTORE

PERFORUS IMIS OUTY

A COMPETEY

PERFORus

OUTY

TMAL ME IS A DISTINCT

SUCK

ASSET

OU TI

M1S

¿ : PERFOROS

TMIS OUTY

AN CUTSTANDING MANNER

COUMO IN VERY FEW INDIVIQUALS MOLDING SIMI.

LAR SOOS

'EXCELS

ANYONE I ANON IN INE PERFORMANCE OF

THIS DUTY

Management of domestic fleld office.

saeç00.

outr

Analysis of assigned area for

Intelligence potential.

6

The planning and carrying out of

effective intelligenca collection.

picrore curr no. " Obtaining the

effective support of non-governmental

sources and contacte in his area.

Lä1zon Th Federal and local agencle.

and officials in his area.

SPECIPIC DURA NO.

Support of other elements of CIA

1n bia area.

MATING

NUMSCR

6

RATING

NUMBER

3

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTIDO CE MAUDRA OF JOB PERFOMAINCE

DIRECTIONS:

Stress strengehs aud weaknesses, particularly those which affect deveingmone on persent job.

The ability to obtain bigh degree of cooperation from important Industrial and

educational sources 1n bis area; ability to plan and direct the operations of his

office with efficiency and exceptionally high standards; complete Integrity. Thie

Integrity, coupled with & somewhat lejalistic approach to many problems, tends to

make him somewhat Inflexible In his approach to the sometimes unusual, requirements

of Intelligence, perticularly when they concern clandestine matters.

SECTION

0.

SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JOB IN ORGANIZATION

everything you know

Pertinear

peraonal characterinence or habita.

samura! defects

on with your team.

DEFINITELY NMSGITABLE

AVERAGE DUT MITH MO BEANNESSES SUFFICICUTLY QUISTANDING TO MAR

RANT HIS SERROATION

SUITABILITY AS MOST PIDDLE I KNOW iN THE ORGAMIZATION

HAS SOME OUTSTAD'INS STRENGTHS

AN UNUSUALLY STMONG PERSON IN TITUS I=

THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE ORGAMIZATION

EXCELLED BY COLY A FEM IN SUITARILIT

THIS IMDIVIDUAL BETTER SUITED FOR MORK IN SINE ODER POSITION IN THE ORGANIZATION?

SECRET

---

## Page 55

4-00000

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT (Part Il) POTENTIAL

FOR DIE MAINISTRATIVE OFFICER:

INSTHUCTIONS

condull furrent instructions for compleling this repore.

MR TIP SHEENSIOR: This

monit:' and

eve chit date conce mee

concernina:

leanil chamunication: to. your

parentin!

of. the

employée beine rared:

and in proper on tote

10tn

räfed raip loyce.

1 t

réport, before carplerine

"question.

Tino report la

to be.ronplered onl

thr 'employee

your

DIOn 'FIT: AT LPAST YO DAYS.:

If less chan 90.uays

after the 90 days

in ithe employer.

complete and forwaried to shr (l no

indeed soday de he sure reache milo to section

-c'i bir loo.

SECTION E.:

GENERAL

• At

(Loos)

BURKS

(80000)

H111n

(41818e)

Per Jr.

DATE OF BIRTH

...SERVICE: DESIGRATION

22 Oct 1900.

OrFICiAL

POSITION TITLE

10.

Opérations/ Contact New Orleans. Office

D.• DATE. REPORT DiE iN OP

9 September 1956

REPORT

опо,

IO (Contect)

ERIOO COVEREO

THIS REPORT (PACIUDITO

9/9/55 - 9/8/56

percIal (Spoolly)

(CAPC»

SECTION

120. 101

THIS CAT

2 Norse

500

DIVIGOING

THIS DATE

8

1256

SECTION G.

IOM

JUDGEMENT DE THE, IMDIVIQUAL BEING RATED

SUPERVISID E

SUPER

SISOR'S DEFIGIAL

TITLE

E. M. ASHCRAFT

Chief, Contact Division

THIS HEPORT AMD NOTED ANY DIETEPENCE

OPINIGN

IN

ATTACHED MEMO.

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING

TITLE DE REY

IRRING OFFICIAL

Assistant Director for

ESTIMATE OF POTENTIAL

operationa

DIRECTIONS.

conisdering o

responsibalities.

work.

Thank

* the

an or as oney encounter sple various level: in mis linder

is rest one

TISSASSDO PIAFDRURNE CAN DR EXPECTED

ASSUME GREATER RESODNRIBILITIES

2

RATING

MUMBER

РЕСТЕО AT HІ:

THE FEM UNO SHOULD dE CONSIDEREO FOR EARLY ASSUMPTION ON MIGHER

SUPERVISORY POTENTIAL

Indicate below your opinion or

quess of the lovel of supervssory

Indicate your opinion

placing the number of the

person i reach

If your

AFTER

comes closest

column.

based on opinion of his potential

DISCRIPTIVE

RATING

NUMBER

ACTUAL

POTENTIAL

3

HAVE NO OPINIDA ON HIS SUPERVISORY

POTENTIAL

IN THIS SITUATION

RELIEVE

INDIVIQUAL

BE A MEAN

SUPERVISOR

…ITUAT0

OTTOOAL

AN

SUPERVISOR 1Y

KIND

OF

THIS MINO DF SITUATION

BELIEDE

INDIVIGJAL

AGULO BE

AVERAGE

A STRONG SUPER

THSS

SITURTION

PTIVE SITUATIN

Dores Te

cialisia al varsous kindo)

And once co deran encoresh rod deckers"

professional

AROUP OF SUAGATISORS

BAsIC 10a (Second lina supervisors)

MC• CONTACT DUTY IMMEDIATE SUDODOING TUS +S NOT TIECUNT

3

3

anto rancorare subonormares inceuor

ornia (Specily)

REPLACES PREVICUS EDITIONS

10P0 95 45 (Part 11) or roRMs

1= AMO 454

M911 CH

SECRET

ARE OBSOLETE

ADe orrease and arco carerue coodormarion

Potential

---

## Page 56

SECRET:

oton

fill.it.

INDICATE

70

COUMLOTS CONCERYING PATTO"I M

DEFIEF PERSENNET

MA:I ROOM

SECTION

TRAINING-OR

UTAN DEVEL

FUTURE PLANS

No further training or expertence planned or considered necessäry, with the

exception of periodie seetings: of the CD/00 field chials.

MOTE OTHER FACINAS. ITCRUDING

• CIRCUMSTANCES, YO DE TAXES INTO ACCOUMT IN INDIVIDUAL'S FUTURE ASSIGNMENIS

see Section Q (4) abore.

SECTION.!.

DIRECTIONS:

the

14 P

This section

Isperally.

calegory number wtich losi

DESCRIPTION OF INDIVIDUAL

ơm4 49

an

lo describina

i-lividual

she page dias are

series

of

the

staterates

as you see him on the job.

Interpret

that apply in some depree to most people.

hot deer

headang

TO

Nearl cach

statement

amt

insert in the

box the.

elis hus

"CATEROTS:

Duct the staterent applers

sa the person coveral by this repore.

OF JASERA: PNIS: HENCE CAN GIVE NO ¡DIVION AS TO NOO TNE DESCRIOTION

APPLIES TO THE

CATEGORY NUMBER

5 .

REPLIES

TO THE IAPIDIDUAL

TO

THE LEAST PISSIBLE DEGREE

A LIMITED

APPLIES

APPLIES

To

INI:31212

DEGREE

AA AYERAGE DEGREE

AVERAGE

MIGREE

OUTSTANOING DISREE

14111E44

ATECORY

NATE GeTT

3

ACCOMPLISHOIOS

2.

20.388

4

19.

PIES

Al 1?995

3

DOMITS MIS COOJAS

Sela

ASSISTAN:L

sв.

3

HW MoUTONs

5

в.

MAS DEMON.

age tairs

18. 18 005100991

GETS PAIDES DIRE

THINKS

10.

SECRET

4

3

5

812129221

SIONS DITH ASSOCIATIS

122.

GARDLESS

29.

ize.

25.

DISPLAYS JUDGINENT

128.

1E SECURITA CONSCIOUS

22. 1S PEASATICE

12д. м18

ca1trc880 18 con.

SIRUCTANT

29.

11:4

---

## Page 57

4-00004

SECPET

FITNESS REPORT

The filne

1.

INS

ON S

TO THE MOMINISTRATIVE ON PERSONNEL OFFICER: COndUli

and l'anénseeál of

то

THE SUPERVISOR:

anmiial

COD

9-9-56 next report die

Postod Pos. Contrel LiziK

18 85 OPTIONAL WHETHER OR NOT

FITNESS

SECTION

Adeon

(Fires)

(Midd

• •DATE OF BIRTN

BURKE,

DATE OF ENTRANCE ON OUTY

9 September 1947

MATUAL

Of ASSIGAMENT

W1111am

OFFiCE ASSIGNCO TO

P., Jr.

22 Oct 1900

N..

P. DIVISION

Operationa

Contact

IF FIELD.

SPECIFY STATIONI

New Orleans,

Louisiana

OCT 1 $ 1955

лa/20/50

DESIGMATION

OC

BRANCH

New Orleans Office

GRADE

GS-15

DATE THAT THIS RIPCAT iS DUE

2 September 1955.

1. CURRENT POSITION

New Orleans Office

WHAT SPECIFIC

ASSIGÄMENTS ON

IS. PERICO COVERCO

By

THIS REPORT (Treludiro

9/9/54

- 9/8/55

SEcTION 1! to be lulled in by suggerison

DATE ASSUMED RESPONSTOTITTT TIR POSITION

I5-8132

19 September 1948

THOSÉ GIVEN TO HIM DURING INE PÄST THREE TO STE MONTHS (LITT

Tha active nanagement of a major domestic field office.

This Includes: (1) the

superylsion and diroction of the profesalonal and clerloal personnal of that.

offico; (2) within the broad directives of the Costact Division, the assessent

of the Intelligence capability of his assigned aras, the conduct of methodical

exploitation of the intalligance sources within his area, and the asintenance of

alose and affectivo relationship with Contact Division Headquarters for the purpose

of directing local exploitation along the lines of current requirements and

priorities; (3) the effective support of all alementa of the Agency, required within

his area; and (4) the maintenance of all Federal, State and looal liaisons necesaaty

to the accomplishment of his mission.

READ THE ENTIRE FOEY BEFORE ATTEUPTING TO COMPLETE ANY ITEM

SECTION

111

indi.

underosending of ay

denced

by shia fitnos

eport and

inforeed him

of hea

and on-ero-job effeceivanods.

If p

formance dus

port

od has

been

acrorgeho.

peaknesses.

eralactory, thare 1a attached a copy of tho armorandus

fyind him

al unso

a factory parforaanco

Thee repare El ras IN nee

ahou to the individual parad.

PATER (Eapto

'''''''O tobin so-

•• innediace euporvisor)

E. M. ASECRAFT

I MAVE REVIERED THIS REPORT (COO

TM I8

trached demorandus)

Pine (Official near higher

of authorily)

GEORGE GA CARPE

• JAN 55

45

REPLACES PREVIOUS EDITIONS

THIS FORD OMICH MAY BE USED.

SECRET

101

---

## Page 58

14-00001

1908.00 .an

einarine in

•al Phé-pago

ipp.

nene

STATEVENTS,

NOT

SERVEC

ABLE TO

SEE

B. PRACTICAL.

6O0O REPATER DR-EVENTS.

CAM VARE DECISIONS ON MIS OUM

MEN METO :ARISES.

CAUTIOUS IM ACTION:

A. MAS iNITIATiVE.

SAMPLES

MALYTIS ! " MIS THINKING.

CONSTANTLY

STRIVING FOR NEN

KNOBLEGGE AND IGLAS.

GETS AGUNG FITN PROPLE AT ALL

SOGIAL LEVELS.

MAS STOSE dE MINIR.

KAUNS ONEN TO SIEN ASSISTANCE.

CALN.

12. CAM GAS ALODE DITN PEOPLE.

13.

MEMORY FOR FICTS.

1A, GEIS THINES DENI.

1s.

ALEPS CRIEATES PORARO CONG

lơ 6.419.

16, CAS COPE MITM EMERGENCIES.

17. MAS MIGH STANJAROS OF

ACCOMPLISUNES?.

18. MAS S:AMINA: ¿40 KEEP 6014G

trad Ti.

18. MAS DISE RANGS DE INFURMATION.

21.

ACCEPYS RESPONSIBILITIES.

22. ADMITS MIS ERRiAS.

23. RESPONIS

•EiL TE SUPERVISION.

EVEDDISPISITI.NO

• INS DITHOUT

•SECRET

Filled In)

SECTION

ercular jos o!

tro

OPTICE OF DENSE STiEL

leocroppene nori

people

apply. "n

The

Appl.

DOES

NOT

APPLIES

TO-A

LIMITED

DEGREE

CATECORVES

APPLIES TO Á

REASONABLE.

DEGREE

'APPLIES TO

AROVE

AVERAGE.

DEGHEE:

APPLIES, TO AN

OUTSTANDING

DEGHLE -

SECRET

---

## Page 59

14-00000

SECRET

CAR THING ON HIS PERT.

coMes uR mira soluTiona to

PROBLeMS.

STIMULATING

TO ASSOCIATES, A

"SPARA PIÙG"",

TOUCH MINDED.

90.

OBSERVANT.

PI• CAPABLE.

S8. CLEAR THINKING.

39. COMPLETES ASSIGAMENIS

WITHIM

ALLOVABLE TIME. LIMITS.

34.

EVALUATES SELE ARALISTICALLY.

WILL IMTORMEO ABOUT CURRENT

SYLUTS

30.

DELIBERATE.

SE. CIRECTIVE I DISCUSSIONS MITH

ASSOCIATES.

IMPLEMENTS DECISIONS REGARO.

LESS OF On FEELINGS.

39.

THOUGHTFUL OF OTMERS.

wORKs sELL UNDeR PREsSURE.

DISPLAYS SUUGEMENT.

42.

GIVES CREDIT WHERE CREDIT IS

Due.

AS. HAS URIVE.

18. 19 SECURITY CONSCIOUS.

45. VERSATILE.

47. ABLE TO INFLUENCE OTHERE

10. HACHES OFFS SMOOTH OPERATION

OFFICE.

SUPERVISION.

STRONG AND

50. A GOOD SUPERVISOR.

A. WHAT ARE HIS OUISTANDING STRENGTHSS

SECTION Y

Complete integrity, high standards of behavior and accomplishment, the abtlity to

induce cooperation at a higa level, exporience in domestio collection.

B. THAT ARE MIS OUTSTANDINE GEAXMESSESI

Sonerhat inflexibly high noral and othical standards.

SECRET

---

## Page 60

14-00000

INDICATO IF YOU THINA THAT-ANY BURGLI

Integrity and general compotence.

OR REARMESS OUTREICAIS

D. 00. YOU. FEEL THAT ME ACQUIARS CLOSE SUPERVISIONI

OF CONVERSONNEL

OCT I4 Z 05 PM °55

HAIL ROOM

BHAT. TRAININE DO YOU RECORUEMO POR THIS IMOIVIDUALI

None, bayond persodia vialts to Diviaion headquarters.

OTHER COMMENTS' (Inda

repare bur orrch havo

See. Bi above.

erasta..spes

Read all desceip

DIRECTIONS:

. only

person has parloradd lhe dulles

accordingly.

00

I1. DOES NOT PERFORM DUTIES ADEQUATELY,

HE IS

THOUCH

0800

3.

•QUATE IN

ECIFIC

PERFORNANGI

GUIDANCE

CARRY OUT MISPO

MOST UF MIS DUTIES

A8a4:

OF MIS

WELL

LLEO BY.

OUTSIANUING

FEN

OTHER PER.

THIS

OTHEN

NE

то тие

BETTER O

IN SOME

Lorent perongelo

C.

• DIRECTIONS:

• ?.

3.

>..

8ho

subractiona 1,8.0.00

anide noo sellone,

your opinion

OMISTIC

Mohand he soone

THE AGENCY AT THE FIRS

TOWARD

AGENCY

RESTRICTIONS. ,.REGARDS AGENCY AI

GET SOMITHIN

TO HAVE

ABLE ATTITUDE TOMARO

MINOR FRUSTRATIONS.

CONTINUE

15

INDIFFEREN

TUDE..MOULO LRAVE

FOR

THINK'S

AGENCI

IMPOSEO B

TERMS

Of A CA

AVORABLE ATTITUDE

TOMAAD THE

UNEXPECTEO OUTSIDE OPPOR.

ABLY ENDIAVOR TO MAKE A

CARELA

In THE

ATTITUDE TOMARD THE AGEMCY

NEVER CONSIDER WORKING ANY.

and expe

ol assignsent, sur dould you raer

parontialero for

assumplion ol dr

rena normallr indicared by promorios.

trade

in sili-

- 1. HAS GIACHED THE MIGHEST GRADE LEVEL

AT WHICH

SATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE CAN BE

EXPECTED.

=J3. 15919186 PROGRESS:

PRESENT GRADE

BUT

TIME

BEFORE PROMOTION

HICHER

GRADE CAN

DE RECOUMENDEO.

IN S. 1S MERCY TO TAKE ON RESCONSIDILITIES OF THE

NEA? MIUMER GRADE, BUP MAY DELO

TRAINING IN

SOUt

AREAS.

A, MILi PROBABLY ADJUST QUICALE

THE

MORE

RISTiNSIBLE CUTIES OF

THE SENT

NIGHER

1s

ALGEACY PERFORNING

THE

LEGEL

GRADE.

0f

THE

NEXT

.

GRADE.

AN EALEPTIONAL

PERSON UNO 1S

CAE

THE SEN

NO SHOULD DE COMSIDERIO FOR RAPID ADVANCE.

MENT.

SECRET

D.

DIRECTIONS:

Conarder

everythind you

knore about thes

parson

i add ind your

aBund., shill en pas durios

habil

on

Perialico or

and apecial

TE 1. DERIMITELY UNSUSTABLE • HE SHOULO BE SEPARATED

in a. or

HAVE AC.

CEPTEO HIM

WHAT

I KNOw NON.

A DARELY

ACCEPTABLE EMPLOYEE,-DEFINITELY BELON

AVERAGE BUT

SUFFICIENTLY

OUTS: ANDING TO

ARATION.

TYPICAL

EMPLOYEE..HE DISPLAYS

SAME SUITA.

DILITY AS MOST OF THE PEOPLE 1 ENOR IN THE

AGENCY.

EMPLOYEE • HAS SOME OUTSTANDING

STRENGINS.

AN

UNUSUALLY STRONG PERSON IN TERUS OF THE

REQUIREMENTS OF THE

AGEACY.

EXCELLCO DY ONLY A PEO IN SUITABILITY FOR MORN

IN THE AGENCY.

---

## Page 61

4-00000

SECRET

ISSUED IN LIEU OF FORM 50

NATURE OF ACTION CHANGE IN OCCUPATIONAL CODE ANDIOR TITLE.

EFFECTIVE DATE..

31 MARCH 1955

POSITION TITLE

IO-CONTACT-CH

NEW CODE

GS-0132.21

NAME

BURKE WILLIAM P JR

POSITION

K 195

NUMBER

POSA

MAY 14.1903

APPROVED

HARRISON GO REYNOLDS

DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL

SECRET

---

## Page 62

4-00001

WILLIAM P. BURKE

Post. Office Box 1018

New Orleans, lo.

O December 1954

Mr. C. P. Carap

Chief, Personnel Procwrement

Central Intellence djency

Washington 2j, D. C.

Dea: Mr. Cump:

I an today in receipt of your letter or

1 December 195 concerning Mr. Clapp's visit

and Mr. McBrice.

I was not lu der Crleans it, the tine when

Mr. Clapp was here and accordingly did uct

have the pleasure uf seeing him.

I an sorry

that Mr. Clapp did not succeed

In making contait with Mr. MoBride.

happen to learn vi a more

recent address of

MI. McBride, I saall pass the information on

to jou.

Very truly yours,

1/9501

Willian P. Burie

#PB/ 5n

---

## Page 63

14-00000

120/8-1-1931-6

567 16

4854

PHANTA FORI Dojuly Director (intallicacco),

Comemation et 20,% Peronioli

lo For the partinovoral sorthe my office hue had as urgent. ent a

contimune reel for inentligence aur sutrale' a for Intolliconce

1n

on agither alnoet pram iD.i cornurient.

Fash if then

- officas do moll as individuais mithin line DO/s

a hianto intercloe alacrity ant completernad.

Their concriottis were enorough ln their covorago and fast in their

Propa:9t19:.

3.

is la difficult in cite the mort of particilar individuaio and

continence of DD/T, recaine

much treezarlenous but essantiai labor munt

attanttor.

Fishing tho chance that such work might

infalrij a unrecronized, l nevertreiess bollara anal the more of tho

collomr tidingals and unico darerves appetal recognitlosi

"te be Arnatrong, Wilton i. Bromi, Archie C. Bush and

David La Canga, Dii.

Burke, Hunter :.

Lenne an1 1loyd A. Ray, Sen

Hallid Richaran,

• on.'c.

Was Botty Didcoct Rod Dar:d!. Haloy, Geography Division,

ORR.

icraa?: E. trophianait, tiarios D. Stocktor, Milton S.

isneaky and hovert jo rustuii, cartography Division, Ori.

Zypurd conchert, Richard Y. Stand and John E. A:lson,

photo incellizence

Marry 1. Mcirea and Darit hi. McLara, 00iC.

Lamasco Snits)er, lem Jork field offico, 00/6.

SECRET

---

## Page 64

14-00000

SECREM

at

Of!1co of Resaarch and Hoperre unich put ste salor resourçoo

our

dispoeat..

Unna costraphia renaarch aros moals gave li

ino elas of trainal certiaraphors and intorpreters.

": thout their

8k1.llo, and che endioss houra choy applián thao did lia for ua,

our oporationa

wuuld

have been mot difficult. ORt's oooronic

rosearch aros entributed insa only bocauro no ascal for losi

ocononite Incoiltienco was not. as sital as devraphic intelligenco

to this operation.

In

a111 21or., the najor acon de contribution

uns recognizad and cormendod in my 7 June 1954 menorandus lo you.

Foreien Broadcast Inforce on Diriglon wilch saltorod

rolated broadcaste

more than 1ts usual care,

and, aporia nchor spoilal activitios,

arrangod a diract viro

sorrice as chat our flold headquartora unt regolral the sonitorod

broadcasta midlaloly.

The ent:ro diviaion turnod ts lis took.

with auch un!ty

what singline, out fur comendation the wurk of any

of 1ta poopie la :spoasiblo.

¿noian Acmenta Divinion ahich save is tranglation quickly

and in

ine priFity nooded.

Tes gArvice sas the euro ramarkablo

'r ler lack nt a Heatern Her 1o; nare unit.

Initiative, flealbility,

and mili:saegs

maro asbatituted for this urganisat: ri lack.

glan when pruvited a made varlery of nervlios to.

• La on: 171tlative propoood Uhor isalu! sorvicar.

redreial iniloction of Certral Arerican antoiligenie informa-

1l0% li die DeB-monk of donnatle field elations, it carefully

"ne southern purls of erisy ires the uniled States on a

tagio, ll providad us mith comercial nems clipping

autien a:1 the torto of nons trialcasts, and it locatal, sur-

:::lert

R..: :1.

tary cares Irterviewed Juntenalans within the United

tiates in mia to vero intorested.

CLA LibrArY, especially, 1tn Pask Branch, All componento, hot-

ever contribulod.

Its clipping corvico nas reliable, alert, and

tran to rendor maxiam seryloe.

The Infornation Sortion promptly

'acallo mineruue spot requesta and gara rasuurcenul assistanco

well boyoni ino sonfidea of 149 mutina dutles.

The Pook Branch

surveyed perlatica! and scholarly litorature seticulovaly, and

¿hua unearora! such irfimation seful to a paycholorical campaign.

raphics Regiater whose ihorn ürauch and fila Pranch both garo

gervices muc: toyont the norea! course of duty, and showerl

lingoralty In locatine and preparine specia: salarials.

Mhandllins

PRAYK G. WISHER

Doputs Diractos (Plaza) "

SFCRET

---

## Page 65

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY INFORM

BY.

SEP 2S 1954

Pa DATE

PERSONNEL EVALUATION REPORpS CoMI

leane schroues

da MAME

BURKE,

4:

OFFICE

DDI/00

PERIOD - COVERED AT

W1111am

STAFF OR DIVISION

Contact

BRANCH

New Orleans

OF. REPORT

POSITION TI

•CD-00

Intelligence Officer (Chie?)

"PIELD, SPECIFY STATION

-x

JiFirio.

Annual

special

Raisiignment of supervisor

9/9/53.

9/8/54

Reassignmons

enrouda do gill. do complaiod by ene perioi

LIST YOUR MAJOA DUTIES IN APPROXIMATE ONDER: OF IMPORTANCE.

WITH A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF EACH.

•OMIT MINOR DUTIES:

General: and

retsiled

supervisten,

personnel attrched coothe

New

circotion

anu support

of the

activities

drirans

ornice,

with a view to insurint

the highest

stancard of professionai

.,ind clerical

performance and tho

most conplete

coverage of the

arva within

interpretation and

this

oftice's

lons.

inplementation oi

policies ort irate dirtsdlction.

rainbenance

hi gher

rche-

ot liaison

with fiole installations of other lAC

affncies for the

purpose of effecting coordiration of dorestic intoill-

conce collection:

Collection

reporting or positive

corelen intcl-

li jence

intoration from constie concovernmontal sources.

Provision of

support to other contonents of cià.

8. LIST COUASES OF INSTRUCTION COMPLETEO DURING REPORT PERIOD.

Nama of courso

"Location

length ol Course

Data Completes

tone

9. IN THAT TYPE OF MORK ARE YOU PRIMARILY INTERESTEO?

1F DIPTERENT FROM YOUR PRESENT JOB, EXPLAIN YOUR QUALIFICATIONS LAPTITUDE, AMONIEOGE, SKILLSI.

in the toge si work

in which I aa

presently coraled.

10.

Mounte

31 Accist 1924

DATE

1eaae 11 Chrougs 18 mill do cooplored in Suporrisor

BRIEFLY CESCRIDE THIS PERSON'S PERFORMANCE ON THE MAJOP OUTIES LISTEO UNDER ITEM I ABOVE.

He perforns these duties conscientiously and efficiently.

FORM

F08 1992 37-358

SECRET

lOvers

+88

---

## Page 66

14-00000

SECRET:

SECURITY INFÖRMATION

OFFICE OF PERS

IN MMAT RESPECS IS TIS PERSON'S PLAPORMANCE ON PRESENS NUB MOST, MOTICEAOLY GOOD OR OU

SINGT

radhe pain nance deed and let and g acta rela thine inle 1.1.N.5%

rea of peculti

OM GNAT ASPECT OF PERCORMANCE SMOULO THIS PERSON: CONCENTRATE CHEORT OR TIL ROOM ENTI

To continung his present etfarta to reach a broader understanding of the whole

Intelligence problem; both within CIA and in the IAc complex.

To a more tolerant

approach to support problen.

DO COMMENT ON THIS PERSON'S ABILITY TO MAMOLE GREATER RESPONSIBILITIES MOM OR IN ME PUTURE.

He is capable of greater responsibilities now.

TS. ARE THERE OTHER OUTTES MICH BETTER SUIT THIS PERSONOS QUALIFICATIONS IREGORMARa appRoprTaRa coRDoTgomant, TI

• No.

16. WHAT TRAINING DA ROTATION DO YOU AECOMMEND FOR THIS PERSONY

None, other than periodie visits to 00/6 hoadquarters.

1%.

IF PERFORMANCE DURING REPORT PERIOD HAS BEEN UNSATISFACTORY, THERE IS ATTACHEO COPY OF MEMORANOUM MOTIFYING THIS

PERSON OF UNSATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE.

18.

24 Suff. 54

DATE

19. I MAVE REVIENEO TME ABOVE REPORT.

2212107-54

20. COMMENTS: 11f nocossary, say do continuos on

(Comments, 1l any,

¡on 20.1

Sand Lenry

SIGNATÓRE OF REVIERING OFFICIAL

Ida of cover

SECRET

---

## Page 67

14-00000

CONFIDEMIIAL

PI BASA ANÃO INSTRUCTION SHAAY ABPORS

STATEMENT: OF FEDERAL CIVILIAN ANO MILITARY SERVICE

FEDERAL CIVILIAN SERVICE BEGIN

• LIN INTS AGENCY. AMD ECLICH

LOCATION

sentral Incitienco Areal

He trianice is .

ГАВІНО ТНІЯ ТОВМ

PRICE

RANCH

REVERSE CNRONCICGICAL

•I"A

31,013100

ciintact.

M0150

ny prleans.ofr

TO

TOTAL COOICE

5.2.

21314

11 MILITARY SERVICE (INCLUDE ONLY FERIDOS OF ACTIVE DUTY: DO MOS INCLUDE TERMINAL LEAVE)

BRANCH: OF SERVICE

SA.

Toral Civilian Sorvico

uC1 ra. al

4). L

"Starin cores (Deservo)

• 192?

:?]

1995

TOTAL SERVICE

ра. но.

Th.

261/

Toral Military Sarvico

DID CERTIFICATION

DY REMARKS:

I hereby certify

that the

above Civilian

and Military service is complete

accurate to the best of my knowledge.

il Dec t'il.

-AL.

COMBiNING ABOVE SERVICE)

Turkef

Y FOR PERSONHEL

OFFICE USE ONLY

TOTAL CREDITABLE SERVICE

DAYS

MENINS

ai 3

YEARS

")

MAY BE CONTIMUFD CY MOM-DETACH

---

## Page 68

4-00000

1508984 "1810109.4019) 008-874996

E Implogree samo.

BAYE

PAY

II pertod

PAY ROLL CHANGE DATA

I TAX_

AsT.

BOND

d. Hurd do

14238

a crodo and salary

ail5

& slip ilo.

€10,750.00

NET YAY"

1713.

8. Previano

9. Pay chio

perlod

10. Armerter.

I. sparopriarioo (o)

12, Preparad by

cint

PURSUANT TO DCI DISECTIVE

EFFECT:VC 24 OCT. 1951

SALARY ALJUSTED TO S

14.8.00.00

124 Premolie

steg-inrirau

O l'ar allurenent

14. EBerlisa

1S. 1ia1a fert

Ii. deo alary

doro

rulrolane

1010

raro

9/26/52

3/27/50

$10,730,00 |$11,000.00

20. LE:P dase (Pill la appropriato sparta coverlos I,H'OP durina follumice portosar)

Pertad (o) :

• 18. (a) 8.Arlre.,

consturi io,

(3).

8 de cerca 1.402. Toral cairre 150P

tien., U.

IS. Audlial by

Il Orbre atep-larred.

or holler

good and sortico nod

19. Укаркого

dato

20/12/51

(ribert appelleable boel la cano of dscos LFOP)

U la pay oratua al end of malllag portad.

O la LIOS aloeua al ond al maisios parlad.

PAY ROLL CHANGE SLIP-PERSONNEL COPY

1011/51 gl

А и. а. ооткя

ANMENT PRINTIMO OPPICA

---

## Page 69

4-00000

ONFTRTLAi

ais Ill'oitación

NOTICE

CHANOG

CHANUE

O01:C1

No. ciinsicit..

N MÜD:!=

DATE OF

CFF

DATÚUF

ANpsOrAL

10UTION

CONTACT

DI.V151.0N

NAiiG G PITLE..

HMDUMKEE N86AANN

IO CHILF

IIAYLLOYD ANTHONY

INTUL OFFICIR

LENKG HUNTK!:

INTGL OFFIOUR

AAANDAO DONGTIY

ADM AGSISTANT

LAT'NO JOAN TIOT

INTI:L OFFICLR.

NAGEL GERTNUDEO

ЗЕСКЕТАЙ UTENG

DUFFY GLAUYI

SCCRETANY STENO

ANDERCON

ChGHK

.AY

HELGN

OTENCORAPÜCA

HOUSTON OFFICE

ПІВОНІ СПИСАТ

10

CHIEF

• HAYNES BEN.P

INTEL UFFICER

IVIS GEORGE

INTEL OFFICER

COISITLEL

SLUTTING AND

PEGIGNATION

INVOLVED

Ó FE

BLCTTING.?%

MAlCH.SI

PERSONS

CRADLi

senles

G= 132 15

05 137

0 133

f it

00 008

137

7

GS 310

318

312

FOSITION

NUMDER

1:195

#DG

K19001

15197

1190

1109

1101

15200

GS

737 15

13274

13₴ 13

. K201

1??02.

1.203

20

-*:.

---

## Page 70

4-00000

•Public Law. 513. approved Say 13. 1950. 81st Congress. (2nd Session),

is quoted verbatim herewith:

"AN ACT.

"To erhance further the security of the United States by prevent-

iny disclosures of

the

communications

information

roncerning the cryprographic systens and

intelligence. activities of the United States.

"BE IT ENACTED BY THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESESTATIVES OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA IN CONGRESS ASSEUBLED. That whoever shall

knowingly

and willfully

communicate. furnish. transmit, or otherwise

make

available to

an-unauthor.s&ed

person. 0f

publish. or use in any

manner prejudicial to the

safety or interest

of tho United State's or for

the

benefit of

any

foreign government to the dotriment of the linited

States

any classified information o1 concorning the

näture, prepara-

tion.

or use of

any code, cipher, or cryptographic system

of the United

States or any foreign government

or 12) concerning

the

design, construc-

lion.

use maintonance.

repair of any device.

apparatus. or

appliance

used

01°

prepared

or planned

for use by the United Stales

or any foreign

government

for cryptographir or cormunication

intelligence purposes:

OI'

(3) concerning tie communication intelligence activities

of

the United

States

or

any foreign government.

or (1)

obtained by

the processes of

communication intolligence.from

the communications of any foreign

government knowing the samo to

have been obtained by such

processes.

shall be fined not more than $10.000 or imprisoned not nore than ten

years. or both.

classilled intornation' as used herein

be construed to mean information which. at

thie time of a vivlation

under this Act, is. for reasons of

security, specifically

designated by a United Stales Governend Agency for limited or

ed dissemination or distribution

The terms

•and cryptographic systen as

herein shall be construed to include

meanings. in

additions to

their usual neanings, any method of sceret writing and

any nechanical

or electrical device

or method used for the

purpose of disguising or

concealing the contents. significance, or meanings of communications.

The tern tcrergn government as

used herein shall be

construed to include. in ats meaning

any porson or persons acting

purporting to act for or on bhalf oi

faction. party. department:

or military force of or

foreign country. or

coi or on behalf of any goverument do any person

or persons purporting

to art as i rovernment within a

foreign country, whether or not such

government is rccognizod by the tarred Stares.

The torn conmunication

intelligence as used heroin shall

be construed to mean all procedures and

nethods used in the interception

of conmunications and the obtaining of

information fron

such condunica-

tions by other shan the intended recipients.

CONFIOENTIAL

---

## Page 71

14-00000

COM DENIAL.

"(e)

The term 'unauthorized person' as used herein shall be

construed to mean any person who, or agency which, is

not authorized to

receive Information of the categories set forth

in section 1 of

this

Act, by the President, or by the

"head

of adepartment.oragency of the

United States Government which 18 expressly: designated by the President

to engage

in communication Intelligence activitles for the United States.

"Sec..3.

Nothing.in this Act shall prohibit the furnishing,

- upon

lawful demand, of information

•to any regulary constituted

committee of: the Senaté or House:of Representatives of the United States

of America, or Joint committee thereor."

1 William P BuRKE, do hereby certiry that

I have read, and thoroughly understand, Public Law 513, quoted above.

signed: ImpBurke

Date

6 Nor, 1950

Nitness:

Position:

Connecter, 2e.

Date

: Honesbes 1950

CONPDLMIIAL

---

## Page 72

14-00000

SERVICA CONNISHIUN

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

2. DATE OF VIKTH

J. JOURNALORACTIONNY

10/22/2900

884 (85) 130

Mr. VIllas P. Burto, J.

16112"

There to to nurely was ol the fillenno stion alfredro asi meho

3, MATURE OF ACTION LÜNE DIAMDARO PARMIMORUGTA

Portodia Stop Inaroaco o

FROM

ragloant Mansigar

03-15

(natolliganos Oft1oOr)

03-19

$10500.00 p0r tum

$/22/50

B. FOSITION TITLE

&, APFECTIVE DAIS

7, CIVIL SERVICE OR DINER LEGAL'AUTHORITY

CIA Abala, Dast.: 20÷8

3/29/20

Darod: 22/9/02

TO

Fazional tanager

65-15

(Intal2150n60 0187095)

03-13

$20730.00. pa5 euros

Operations

Cantaot

ROX OFLOANS 0P9100

Oporationa

Contaot

Nor Orloans Offico

How Orleans, L0u191ana

[*

FIELD

13. VETERANS PREFERENCE

може ижи /отнем в-рт.

DIDABIUIMEN

SEx

HACE

ALI

олом.

2103900

DEPARTMENTAL

D. ORCANIZATIONAI

LUNATION

11. MEADQUARTERS

I TIELD

1Z. FIELD OR DEPT'L

FISITICS CLASSIRIGAIION ACTION

vick

I BIAL

DEPARTMENTAL

Bu. 12-198

18. Sta1i'1

SEPREVENT ACT

19. BANE AF MAGNS

CALCASTIONE UNLES

SO CLAIMEO LI TRUNED

olast oquivalent salary Increase 9/19/49

Approved 3/20/49

Conduct Reports satlarcotary

Dadad 3/6/59

ENTRANCE EFFICIENCY RATIME:

11159

Andu E. Van Esso,

AHAREY B. VAH ESSO

- chlor, Admintatrativa star

22 SIGNATUNE CA CTNES RUTHENTICATIOI

PU. A DONIARMERT PR-STITO OPPICE • 1018

планко

& PERSONNEL FOLDER COPY

"rivier

---

## Page 73

14-00000

Blanderd Form Ma!

U. 8 CIVIL SENTICE CUMMISSION

RÉPORT OF

EFFICIENCY RATING

ADMINISTRATIVE-LINOTTICIAL

REGULAR

PROBATIONAL T

SPECIAL (••)

10 0 4 3/20/50

...lacid on performance during pertod lom 3/22/00

..G5-25

(Tuo of position, piratin, and i

- о.3/12/59

i-Contrate

ON LINES. BKILIT

_ MARK ENTLOTES

V if'adequato

-, 11 weak

+ I£ outstanding

hoa, ration, unil, Beld mation)

1. Studly the instructions in the Rating Official's Guide, C. S. C. For

-No-3823A}

Underline the clumenta which are escially important in the position.

3. Rate only on eleinents pertinent to the position:

a lo ant rite on clements in italies excipt for employeca in admini.

istrative. supervliors,or planning petitiona

D. Kate aúministrative, aupervitory, and planning functions on

clements in italics.

CHECK ONBA

Administrativo,

supervisory, or

All others...

... (1) •Maintenanco of equipment, tools, lustruments a

I. (81) 58octirences in planning broad marreme

(2) Mechanical skill:

_(82) enecterness in lapting the vcri program lo

(3) Skill in the application of techniques and pro

broador or related progran.

erdures.

(99) Efectivences in dovising procedures.

(1) Presentability of work (appropriateness of an o

→ (84) Electioness is laving out work and establiah.

rangement anil appearanco of work).

in!

sumares vener ormance for surre

K (6) Attention to broad phases, of assignunentà

• (6) Attention to pertineut dctail.

•-(95) @jectivenessindirecling.reviewing.ndchock

ing tha work of subordinatos.

(7) Accuracy of operatione.

- (30) Ellactichers in

instriscling

training, and

(8) Accuracy of final results.

deceloping subordinatrs in the work.

(9) Accuracy of judgmenta or decisions.

(97) Effectiveness in promoting high turking morale.

•(10) Effectiveness in preschting ileay or facta.

.. (93) Electioness in determining spaco, personnel,

_(11) Industry.

and equipment niceila.

... (12) Rate

of progress on or completion of aanign-"

_... (29) Efectirenens in solting

and

obtaining acher

enco to time limity and doadlines.

nients.

(Is mark

... (30) Abilicy to mato decisions.

based on proiluction records?

-.. (31) Ejectiveness

ir

delogating dearly definod

unthority to ack.

•(18) Ability to organize his work.

t(15) Electiveness in meating and dealing with

STATE ANY OTHER ELEMENTS CONSIDERED

.... (16)

Cooperativeness,

—(17) Initiative.

-(A)

-(18) Resourcefulness.

7 (19) Dependability.

- (R)

•....=(20) Physienl Atness for the work.

.. (C)

5=-55749773

STANDARD

Merlalfona munt be explalned on rorses aldo of thia forta

Idiortia

Ґалько

Idiertin

Kuling

Rating

Plus marke on all underlined elements, and check marks or better on all

olficial..

other cleinents rated.....

Excellent

E

hock orarke webelter el all elements ratee, and plus marks on at least

Very Good

Check marks of lutter on a injority of underlined clements, and all nrak

Reviewing

performance overcompensated by onestanding performnuce......:

Good

otlicial..

=

Check marlis or better on a majority of underlined elements, and all weak

performance not overcompenasted by outstanding prrforianoe..

Fair

Sicast half uf "y. undorlined elements.

Unsatisfactory

Rated by ..

man

hit Contado 2

le March 1150

Reviested by

7.ncut neute is details.

$D/00

20 21011500

(Nata)

Rating approved by elicioney ratlug commitice xf....

Report to emplojee.

П. 8. 801884484Т РАНТАВ ОПОРСВ 18-99178-8

---

## Page 74

4-00004

PERIODIC PAY INCREASE REPORT.

TMIS DATE

Firtin

Contact,

3/2/1950

In ordor. lo deserains. unether the employis named salon la allgiblo for a perlodic pay increddo l8 la necossary

that bla: (or por) insislara auporvieor irocuro the. Pollonine "Conduct Roport" and obtain the algnaturo of sha

dighees eupervisor deving knonlodgo of thé aplóyoo' a conduct:

COMDUCT REPORT

MADE OF EMPLOTEE

allian Pe Jurke

This enclured's conduct has teen satisfactory:

POSITION, TITLE ANO GRADE

Intolle Offe

15-15

rack

This emelorea's conduce has been unsatisfactory for the Polloming reasonsi 9/191X48

Effe

Tating -

- 1/20 (49

marione

Effee..

Fate

8/19/50.

2105208

529 - 888

FEAM NO

rymenk kiratush.

ост 1S49 37-105

SIGNATUNE OF REVIEMING OFFICIAL

DATE

RETURA TO: PERSONNEL DIVISION

ATT: TRANSACTIONS AND RECORDS BRANCH.

---

## Page 75

14-00000

1949

STANDARA FIRM NO, A PARTI

• CIVIL aNAVICE COMMINGION.

HUDURT DUASAU

NO. 00-7498.

NAME IMA.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

2. UATE OF BIRTH

FIRST-UMIDOLS TRITIN

10/22/2900

181 (00) 330

A. DATE

10-88-19

Mr. M1l11an P. Durbo,

This lo to mottle sue it the fullesters ortion aflactina yuer smplermont:

B, MATURE OF ACTION LUDE STAMDAGO TANMIMOLOGTI

contora1on-02100.. 408.0s.1969

FROM

O. APPECTIVE DATE

10-30-19

7. CIVIL DERVICE UN OTHER LEDAL AUTHORITY

Te 1265-D6I-10-27-89

TO

A. POSITION TITLE

Ragonal- Mamage

8-8

(Intall1(000e 0581085)

pd $20,305.00 pos art

' BRENACE GRADA.

Rogdonal 19a897

67-15

(Intolllegiacs 0681065)

0-19.

$20, 500.00 pEr ARRAI

Operations

cantaot

Fow Orloans 018100

10. OHONATIONG

OHDANIZATIONAL

Operatloss

Cantast

How orloans 0f8100

18. HEAOQUARTERS

Now 0520020, Lo0101809

Hou Orloans, terito laos

-I TRIELO

19. REMARKO

12. PIELD OR DEPT'L

1 ORPARTMENTAL

Il PIRLO

• OEPARTMENTAL

15. VETERAN'S PREFERENCE

мома ів рт.

DINAR | WIFE WIDOWi

SEX

18.

RACH

TO. APPRORRIATION

PROMI

70.

8203900

529-308

20.

SUAJECE TO C.S

RETIREMENT ACI

131. DATE OF OATH

(ACCRBRIGAS CALY)

TOR

4. PERSONNEL FOLDER COPY

RE Me Peellan

Aot1n8

Chief,

PEPSONIGO1 DiVIGIOn

1A, SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

10. POSITION CLASDIFICATION ACTION

AEAL

B.E3-2500

11/10/49

22. LEGAL RESIDENCE

IndelAna

/PRINTING OFFICE, lidS 093928

---

## Page 76

Fleinderd Yora Nei $1

UR CIVIL SENTIS CONMIRAION

: 1501-3/19/49.

LET ARTIFITA

REPORT OF

EFFICIENCY RATING

bagc on performanco durin's period from 9/29/48

SISTRATIVE-INOTTICIAL

OFFCIALI

REGULAR

(I.)

SPECIAL

FRUMATIONAL 1

- l0.3/79/49

Iatallleenae.0rf1c9x.p-8

(Tillo.of Doalthin, som

tors and erades

00, Contacti

= ON LINES BULAT

-MARK SAPLOTEE

1l adequato

-. it weak

+

If outstanding

1. Study, the instructions in thö Rating Oficial's Guide, C. S. C. Form

.2.

NO. BRERA.

Underline the clements which are capecially important in the position.

3. Buto only on clements pertinent to the position.

a. Do not rate on clements in italice excit for employeca in admin-

istrative, supervisors, or planning, innitions.

B. Rato administrativi, supervisury, and planning furictions on

elementa in inalira..

CHECK ONER:

Administrative,

jupervisory, or

planning ...

All others...

(1) Maintenanco of equipment, tools, Instrumenta

(2) Mechanical skill.

(3) Skill In tho applention of techniques: and pro-

codures.

- (4) Presentability of work (appropriatencis of an

rangement and appearance of

work).

om (5) Attention to broad phases of usaigruments.

(6) Attention to pertinent detail.

= I (7)

Accuracy of operations.

I. (8)

Accuracy of fral results.

• (D)

Accuruck_of. suurments or decisions.

...- (10)

Effectivenens in presenting Ideas or facts

-(11) Industry.

•----(12)

Rate of prostess on or completion of assign-

ments.

_(13) Amount of acceptable work produced. (Is mark

baser on production recorda?....a

- (14) Ability to organize his work.

_t.(10) Entertivenris

othery.

In meeting and denling with

-=t.(1G)

Cooperativeness.

_t. (17) Initiative.

_I (18) Resourcefulnesa.

_I (19)

Dependabllity.

-(20) Physical fitness for the work.

' (R1) Elfécliveners in planning broad programs.

• (22) Effectiveness de

alripting the work programe lo

brouter or rilatid programs.

(29) Electiveness in devising procclures.

.. (34) Electirenear in lauing out. work and establishi

standards of performance for suberdi

reviewing, and check

-(26) Electivenenn

ire

developing subordinaten in

instructin in weini.

training, and

+ (27) Eflectivenes in promoting hink wurking morale

_ (28) tillecliveness in determining spaco, personnel,

und eruipmient needs.

(29) Fillectiveness in

sotling

aul obtaining adher

enco to timo limits anul dewllines.

-I (31) Ability to muto dccisions

t. (31) Prectivenesa

delegating

clourly defined

aullurity touct

STATE ANY OTHER ELKMENTS CONSIDFLED

_(A) ..

--(3)

(C)

STANDARD

Doriallora must be explained on reverao ido ul this faros

Adjectise

Reling

Plus marke on ull underlined elementa, and check marks or better on all

Rating

ullicinl..

other elemanta ratedi......

Chock marke or better on all elements rated, and plus marke on at leant

half of tho underlined elemoato..

Check marks or better on a majority of underined elements, and all weak

performanée overcompernated by outlandiok percorman80...

Excellent

Very Good

Goodl

Reviewing

ulticial..

Check marke or lotter on a majurity of underlined dewents, and all weak

performance not overcompenaled by outstandug perforiance..

Fair

Minis marhe en ot frust half of the underlined elvesnts.

Unsatisfactory

18419n

em snortic Chif Contact Br

Omi Met 1p 47.00

Rating aproved by ofteeney tating commit. J. 9 4 8. Repare to employe interes

16-202774

E

E

23 Much 1949

14 Mara 1949

in !

---

## Page 77

14-00000

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION RECORD

BURKE, FILLIA&

MATURE Of ACTION

•E.O. D.

TITLE OF POSITION

Restonus Benuger

GRADE

P-8

DEPARTMENT OR FIELO

Field

Subject was

found physically fix fit I Junfit for duty with this organization

in the above grade and position. Il Septumber 1947

RECONA ENDATIONS:

29 leceaber 1943

DATE

Joe. B Preten

SIGNATURE OF PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS OFFICER.

FORM NO.

98.38

MOY 1049

---

## Page 78

NAME

Wallian P. Burke; Jr.

NATURE OF ACTION:

Tronger

PromotIon

9 September 1948

Emiertlatory

FOR HEPARATIUNG.

TRANSFERS OUT. AND RESONATIONS

LAST WORKING DAY:

TOH HESIONATIONS TROM PADERAL SERVICE ONLY

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE:

RESTRICTED.

PERSONNEL ACTION REQUEST

CLASSIFIÇATION

VICE,

Év. # F-142

... 1A

VV

12-4-47

NEW

ULALIFICAT LUX dREVIES INITIALL

Усл

DATE

9-71-48

-2:9-8 0d

APPROVED:

Lhia-45 Kay 9-23-7t

: * 1946

Тённа - 15 будт 48

EXECUTLUG FOR ALM

/5Jut 48

STATURE

FLEMIET, PERSONNE

TO

TITLE

ORADE AND SALARY

OFFICE

BRANCH

DIVISION

SECTION

OFFICIAL, STATION

DEPT. OR FIELD

REMARKS:

FROM

Asst: Hegional Manager

(Intolligence Officer)

0.9.50

P=7

Operations

Contact

Control

Southern I.A.0.

New Orleans,

Louisiana

Field

28

P-8, 710, 305.00 p.a.

Cporstiona

Contact Per

New Orleans Office

New Orleans, Louisiand

Field

130

RECOMMENDED DO i En

•ORM MI

00Т 194637-

15460

BREE C. CAREY

Assistar. "Director for Cperations

RESINOD

1948

11514)

---

## Page 79

SAMUNDO PONM

SO 10 PAR!I

UNITID' STATES

COMMISSION

MAML IMA: MISS MNS.

P1A3T

se, Willen P. Burso,

Tris ii lo nority rou ol l'o föllowine

S NATUHE UF ÁCTION ISI STANUARO TERMINDLOGTI

mentrer A Promotien

Crota

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

JOURNAL CHACTIONI

10/2/1900

9/9/19t8

@'POSITION TITLE

8-7:1

9. SERVICE. GRADE

осам

OVOGLI DUREAU NO. JA- DOM

1.30

N81 (09) 130

9/27/2948

1 CIVIL ERUCE OH OTHEM LEGAL: AUTHONDY

sabaduro 1d5

To

: $20,303.00 рак опи

uparations

Cantaot Branch

Bov OrleaTio 0fS10S

oporations

Conteot

Control

southem I.A.O.

10 ORGAMIZATIONAL

DESIGNATIONS

11 MEAnQUARTERS

Luy Orleans, Louladona

#FIELO

IN. REMARKS

DEPARIMENTAL

12 FIELO OR DEFT L

No+ 091141418

ESEND - 9549141

neo.

0f/1514)

llor Orlecro, Loudalena

$| FIELO

DEPARTMINTAL

9124149

IS VETERAN'S PREFLNENLS

YO CONT

DISAD

mirk winn

Tat)

WW InTHER.

APPROPRIATION

FROM

.; t

2295900

529-308

SORIFCT TO C

'ETIHEMENT ACI

4.

PERSONNEL FOLDER COPY

¡A SIGNATURE UN UTHER AUTHENTICATION

16

POSIIION CLASSIFICATION ACTION

Eu. 17-198

22/4/47

!I DATE OF OATH

LACCESSIONE ONLYI

22 LLGAL RESIDENCE

Lontalesa

INT PRINTIMO DARICA 1048

783384

---

## Page 80

STANCINTO PONRI NO, DA

CONFIDENTIA

Office Memorandm • UNITED STATES GOVERNNENT

TO

'Executive for Adrinistration and lanagement

FROM 1 Assistant Director for Operations

•SUBJECTS Rocormendation for Pronotion of dr. Willian Patrick Burko, Jr.

DATE: SEP 15 1949

1. It-is requested that the attached recommendation for

promotion of tr. Willian P. Burke, Jr. from.P-? to PiB be approved

even though lit. Burce has not served the reguired tie in-graio

as establishud in Parägraph 4e of Administrative Instruction

No. 20-1.

This recommendation is based upon the fact ho has

served in his present capacity as Acting Chief, New Orleans Offico,

00/c, for approximately one yoar and his performence of duty has boon

outstanding.

2. Mr. Burke entered on duty as Acting Chiaf, New Orleans

office, :00/C, on 9 Septembor 1947 In which capacity he 1e still

serving.

The position of Chief, Now Orleans Office, has been

allocated as a P-8.

3. Subsequent to assuming his dutios as Acting Chief of the

New Orleans Offico, Mr. Burke displayed great initiativo and

unusual ability in planning his organization and mithout any loss

of time, placed 1t on a higily productivo basis. .!r. Burio has not

overlookod any possible sources of intelligence within his area, and 1s

submitting extremoly valusulo reports, particularly thoso that pertain

to Intin America.

In addition, Mr. Burke's offica has produced

comprehensive reports on the intolligence potentialities of Houston,

Texas and

, convinoing this office that field offices

in both localities will be justifled..

4. Mr. Burke's accomplishmonts as Acting Chief, New Orleans

Offico have been outstanding.

Due to his unusual leadershio the

morale of his office personnel has been maintrined at a high level,

despite hoavy working conditions.

5. Sir. Burke received an A.B. degree from Loyola University,

New Orleans, in 1919 and ILB degrees from Harvard la School and

Tulane University in 1923 and 1925 respectivaly.

Ir. addition, he

spent one year of study at Cambridge University, England. Upon

graduation from law school, he became aiMlisted with varlous

prominent law firms in Nev.

Orleans, and in 1937 established his

own firm which he operated on a successful level until his entry

into the military service during world ar II.

6. Mr. Burke has an outstanding military record, having

served approximately thrae years in the U. S. Larine Corps during

world liar II, and being honorably reluased iras duty with the rank

rico

i e CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 81

14-00000

CONFIDENTIA!

of Hajor: During his tour. of duty with the U.S. larine Corps, he served

in the capacity of liaison officer with Sélective Service and

later, as legal officer with the Fourth Larine Division in the

Pacifio.

By reason of his civilian and military experience and

wide acquintanceship in New Crleans, br. Burke is exceptionally

woll qualifled for his present assignment and 13 performing. his

duties; in an outstanding manner. In view of his superior accomplish-

ments and contributions to tho succesaful operation of the Contaot

Branch, It 1s strongly ruconmended that ls. Burke's promotion to

the grace of P-8 be approved...

Trom? Canin

GEORGE G. CAREY

- CONFIDENTIAL.

---

## Page 82

4.00000

19 l'ay 1969

4T. W1lllan P. Durko

P. 0. Box ICI6

Rew orinana, ?, Losislana

Daar 1111:

• Prior to Inavina Clà, I bant to rocord ny alricera

approc intim of tio flis leù dono by cou In Mos Urlrans.

Your acrlovagent is all the sura notrorthe vien it

13 roverintod tint you stortod in jiur cit: singlobandod

And vit: lItola puldanco ai pruceleroo.

of 1990 tian a part, jou lare cosacad au effoctira fiald

difico wich lu non naking a sigalficant contribution to

national irbo111.ence.

Ingenetions roveal tort prur relatione ului tha local

Arand Perone reprogentitlves ne sil en vich inur aliento

are oscollent. Notad also 1e

"': tirh norelo in your

ortico.

Pleazo eccept y concratulrtione for thie aplandid

rOOT! and acuept, ry iratltale for tour lonel riprott.

With beet wichgs for peer continurd success,

Very sincorols:

EDIN L. STILAT

rigadier Soneral, t

Assistant sirector IcT Operatione

ELS: 57

00E

Chier, 00/0

bilia?

---

## Page 83

14-00000

Blandard Forre

Na 31. Kev.

Ampained line. 1943

l Dript (7r: Na 831

REPORT OF

EFFICIENCY RATING

Farm approvrd

Rudsts Rura::

diginural espuree Mar, 30, 1888.

ADMINISTRATIVE-L'NOFFICIAL

PROBATIONAR De TRAPEMOD !

As of:

_ 3/32/43.

Lesal an performance durins resivi from.

9/9.47 00 3/33/48

" Titicial posittin

saaratians. fontact

ON LINES BELOW

MARK EMPLOYEE

'it adequate

il weak

+ if outstanding

aneria, unit, Bald ration)

1: Study the inscructions in the Rariza Urial's Guide, C. S. C. Form

Underline the elements which are rajorially important in the position.

Rate only on elements pertinent in she plution.

a Do mis rate on elements in irain except for employees in admin-

istrative, supervisors, or piannire pesitions.

b. Rais

suministrative,

superiars, anil planning functions on

elements in italics.

-CHECK 'ONE:

Administrative,

supervisory. or

planning..

(1) Maintenance of equipment, tools, instrumenta

(2)

Mechanical skill.

(8)

Skill in the application of rechniques and pro

cedures.

• (4) Presentability of work (app,opriateness of ar

rangement and appeararce o! work).

-T.. (5) Attention to broad phases of assignments.

• (6)

Attention to pertinent deisil.:

(7)

Accuracy of operations.

(8)

Accuracy of final results

(9)

Accuracy of judgments or devisions.

Effectissness in presenting ilers or facts

Industry.

- (12)

Rate of progress on or completion of assign

ments.

(1S) Amount of acceptable nor praticed. (Is nia:

aser on production memoris

Feror nor

All others........

Tie spectiveness in planning hroad prorams.

-(93) Effectireness in aapting the work program to.

nader or elated pragrams.

(2S) Erectiveness in devising procestures.

19) Electiveness in laying out work and eseablish.

190

standards of

performance for suberdi-

nates.

it (95) Edictireness in directing, reviewing, und check.

ing the rock of 8400nlinates.

I (90). Etectiveness

instructing,

training, and

iceloping subordinates in the work.

T(2:) Erictireness in promoting high working morale.

t. (es) Evertierness in determining space, personnel,

and equipment needs.

wen (99) Erectirenese in.reltiny

ane obtainug adher

race to tire limits and dendlines.

* (SU) Ability to male decisions.

w. (51) Electiveness

delegating clearly defined

antnority to uch

meeting and dealing with

STATE ANY OTHER KLEMENTS CONSIDERED

others.

... (16) Cooperativeness.

..(17) Initiative.

-t (18) Resourcefulness.

+= (19) Dependability.

-...(20) Physical Atness for the work.

=.(A)...

-(B)

-.. (C)

STANDARD

Derlazions most so explained on reveree stdo al cada faro

Adjeetien

Adjectin

ralino

Excellent

Rating

ofticial..

Plus marks on all underlined elements, and no minus marks.

Plus marks on at least half of the underlined elements, and so

marks....

rainus

l'ery good

Check mara or becomen a a by ple underlined elemerse, ard say

Good

Resiewing

rificial.

E

= 206/1 n Chi

Fair

Unsatisfactory

7/0

"(Dato)

Revered byreman Kilpatien Paste title it pulitS

Rating appoind by eliciency rating amition Fa

(am a Report to employee determ

---

## Page 84

14-00000

LUngine

10856

Agalatens Diroator for Oporations

Exertito Discotos

Identifleation for Contaot Spoolalloti

8 Ootabor 1948 % 111:

3o Attaabed anar.

three orselnal letters, of Introduation datad 9 Dotobor 1947, alexod

by the Dirostor.of Cntral Intollizonoo, roglatration numbor 101, eopy'1 = So

to bo leonad so It. Ellllon lo Burtladt. Chlof of tha ser Orloade offlo

of your castant brandt, and coples d and 5 car raoord purposos.

Do TaTto eristnal lottors of Introduation dated 9 October 1947, 31210d

Dy tho Mrietos of Cantral IntollIroses, roglutration nurbor 105, oopy 1 = 3,

to bo seared to sit. Jey

Bi La RoOTOR, CHloP of the Pittaburet offico of your

contart trasai, and copióo d and 5 for record purposes. :

Three arifliel lattoro of lutroduation datod 9 Ootobor i047, algood

by tho Direster of Central Intolligango, rogiatration mundor 103, copy 1 « 3.

to ta lanuad to siT. Harrison lo Royaoldo, talaf ai the Boston offloo of your

Contaat BruTal, and coplas d and 5 for record purposos.

do Samplo of lotter of introduation to to lood la consoation tita above

lettors, to bo uritton and alprod la osal oase by the flold offlos shlos

cancersad.

fold offloo erlofa aro changad.

Inetricsiona relativa to socounting for the roglatored lotters alguad by

Cha Dirpotor "ill bo issuod to you dirnot fraia the Contral Rosords Divledon of

the sortions Spazas, Adito

tho sa10s, Perional Brrach, sal, uill plaos a notation with tha person-

sal recorde of dnel flald effio ahlos to uhan thess lattora are lapuado sad will

Do resposalblo that thoss lodividuals are not reassigod or separatad until thoso

rogladerod lostora bars bors apopatod for and withdrawn for dostruatson

The deadstant Diroctor for oparations and the Exodutivo for Insusation sad

sagurity "ill asuso such Insportions to do nado or the uns of thats neane of Ideut!-

fication as till tasuro malatenazoo of adoquada poourity la concontion thereuiti.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLI HOBS

Lo 1. SHAMEON

& Exalasuras

tottag Freouthra Director

Lo Lte Aral iDl to Rillian Pa Burko (oopies 1-5) Exedrie Apr

8O LiP frAa DI TO I

' Lo Ragpes (coplas Jat)

So Lts Iras 201 ta B

an Ou Heynoldo (coples 1-5) Dumios Chief, Pere Br(sor CoRp)

Ao Sasplo lt of later ition to bo unad by ardess or a opiate dos las

---

## Page 85

1/1al6e

•12 Septender 1917

LENORANDUM TO:

Chief, Personnel Branch

Executive ford & d

SUBJECT&

RÉFERENCE:

Deta1l of HIllian P. Burke, JI.

10.3, 9 1940ana) 1ot20n Request, " dated

It 16 hereby requestad that your records be. marked

is show that it. Burke has teen designated Act i, lanager

of the Now Orleans Interageney Office.

It. is not

intended

to recrust anyone against to P-S lanager posision.

Hayden

Che

HAYDEN CHANNING

mering

Erecutivo Officer

Contact, Branch

---

## Page 86

14-00000

CHITRA, TITO ICE

108pT.

AFFIDAVIT

: STRIKING AGAINST THE FEDERAL GOVERMMENT

CE GROUP

POUREAU ON OFFICEI

HASHIASTONe D. C-

¡PLACE OF PNALOYNENTI

1.-

VILI TAL P. BURKE, JR.

__ D0 HEREBY SWEAR (OR AFTIRM)

THAT I AM NOT ENGAGED IN ANY STRIKE AGAINST THE GOVERAMENT OF THE UNITEO

STATES AND

THAT I WILL NOT. SO ENGAGE WHILE AN EMPLOYEE OF THE-GOVERNMENT

OF THE UNITEO STATES: THAT I AMNOT A MEMBER OF AN ORGANIZATION OF GOVERN.

MENT

EMPLOYEES THAT ASSERTS THE RIGHT TO STRIKE AGAINST THE GUVERNMENT OF

THE UNITEO STATES, ANO THAT I WILL NOTUNILE A GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE BECOME

A MEMBER OF SUCH AN ORGANIZATION.

SUBSCRIDED AND SWORN TO BEFORE ME THIS

I er get

Septembar

_19 LITAr Mashington. STATE OF D. C.

_ DAY OF

Elyabeth theorrison

ppointrent Cleri

unapter Ils, IIllo II, See. 206

Ast of Juno 26, 1913

'oR"

10.8

.1.44

115800

---

## Page 87

14-00000

MA drool lorry nicen

'H OF OFFICE, AFFIDAVST.

• AND

DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

CENTRAL INTULLIGENCE DRUÚ!

Dopartmant on Eatil dishesiant!

WASHINGTON, D. C.

OATH OF

OFFICE

B.

AFFIDAVIT

C.

DECLARATION

OF APPOINTEE

ILLIAN PO PINES

Do solemnly swoar (or alfirm) that i will support and defind the consttution of tho United

States aguinst all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I wilt biar trüe laith and allogiance

to tho same: that I take this obligation irrely, without any mental reservation or purpose of

ovasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am

about to enter. SO HELP ME GOD.

r.

Do further swear (or affirm) that l'do not advocate, nor cim l a member of any political party

or organization that advocates the overthrow of the Governmont of the United Stairs by force

or violence; and that during such time as l am an employee of the Federal Government, I will

nol advocalo nor become a member of any political party or organization that advocates the

overthrow of the Governinent of the United States by fond or violence.

Do further certily that (1) I have not paid or ollered or promised to pay any money or other

thing of value lo any person, firm, or corporation for the use of influence to procure my appoint-

mont; (2) I will inform myself of and observe the provisions of the Civil Service law and rules

and Exucutivo orders concerning political activity, political assessments, etc., as quotod on

tho atlached Information for Appointee, and [strike out either (3) or (1)]

(3) the answers given by me in the Declaration of Appoinlee on the reverso of thia sheet.

are true and correct;

(4) the answers contained In my Application for Faderal Employment, Form No. ...

dater!

.., 19.. f, filed with the above-named department

or establisbrent, which I havo revlewed, are true and correct as of this date, ex-

cepl fur the following (if necessary, use aulitional sheet; il no exceptions write

"none"; it (1hjg executod, tho rovorse of this theet need not bo used;"

11 the

Subscribed and sworn belore me this …

10tr.

.... day of

Ot .......

Washington

ivatura l Applies

Sept ember

D. C...

Estates

Chapter 145, Title II, Sce. 2C&

Aot, 0f June 26, 1943

Elgabate. Mon

Aprointment derk

NOTE. - Il the oath is taken belore a Notary Public the dale al expiration of lus commission should bo shows

A Septene 29127

Asst• ReGional Lanagor, Pola 501150 - 23 OcT 1100

(Positon to mluch appoindad

(a:o d Birth)

A. D.; 19..47

---

## Page 88

14-00000

DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

phio torra il sonuiral un to bo coton

da-lamtise mil to unvesd

toe cancolation di oppisenton or, dinmisaal sttor afiny

uchait ?r19.

1 Arane Adtirs 6, 300:

Cha Ger Aver

me,

Aié Oiksaus I5La.

2. Win, rhould lo notitient in cassi ol:

Mis MP Ruike

-- KDey und sarte

unfo

6300 lt Charles An

Newr Orleans.

Lạ

Par Yeeeoaanne

•Aonià linad missin the juatt 6

marals"

aanmia a

Narse

Prant «olhrero rectetr

sine stront nutalige;.if.an

=' Terrrnar

PhY Ti

Rolateo

Me rged o loi

1. Placo ol birth....

Neas Orleans..

Inclicreto "Yos" re. "Ne" onawer by pleacarug X in furopter culumn

8. Aro you a a19ian ol the Unutrad Sralee? eatei..e

I1 farolan kr

torelp o u hheus diisoed o shumisation

_2) the agency in cennaction wilh elre apprintmane?.........

2. ln n in cl in c ha n e a ent ht

umfer 1h0 Un'tud Stols

1 o da s pocs, peayen, anf-Soty unor lna te ah

nocoded d ra ce willin lre hauch oihonr oturer teromo

U. Lto you terrire any

no ciserw er an rautyn

ruty ton hou sao etawerimen

Yoo

J.=..:

3-===-

3 -2=

La..

''"Saito" or Counirri"

No

12 Spavo ar tatazioni anamora du othor quentiona.

Dinsa ia loit column nuntere ol itoma to whicti otaltui cinsonera apply

nactne Cot cye

Ieac

.x.

.X..

or noval tervsen.

10.

y0u

.11.

Sano,

hanhsgtnrmiendute acalray

rown tren sny

ouh armmrld, oros

. X

INSTRUCTIONS TO APPOINTING OFFICER

oit.n=

==:

725.

Then korm khorlnd tre chrerknd far heiding of alict

lal mldtn temincinch wihohy loor

sdi t do purcho e dico

irmot, prryen, ro to

iaciva provisons regardiy pulucal actir.ty und prirauiaily dur tiee bulléeiro

Lil thodly

ol appoirine

partma era tht hortn hoo

awrr ndt

cil''er

wreay ar ite rorg

-MrSi ceuthonk

on Ta poraical hsur ie agmener:

to quemora

- it cha mkancy urista en?ucrer ne

eo Arididomen ctle oddont ant too isddc

delormunod thal as ficant i1 10o OLtilo tie ui Aunio tor UNfanr.20cl

Calizanatsp.

- The Tos

onsibaly ber aiver

nt putisengo ranun teponard

orureensher

senalios with thu usjuet.tung

& the Ua. oi Sianes

1 19ten

141 Nambaro al Faraily, - Ser-tion 9 ot the Cril Sarriio A.Y prtinadas thut aber:

etver tena In s tuIiy, tr0 c4 mOne mumivrs of tha lamrsie in "'1o -1aas 1ooi

sOrraT.

no dior sunioe ci sunh lam iy ls eingitde tiy uppeertasen8 in 1l 18.4484.72

MuxTs

"rota

thun tww 10254-9 5411717.

uotil n leunt lo hirt

Uintor li ir Soray

Darir te6 arie YEUl: DT lit

+8 PaIyyInd (8YICX 10-53838-1

---

## Page 89

14-01110

STANCARDIONWE APARTY

CItIL *44.

41:5,10%

OCIONER 1 ion

" CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE GRES

11(gu)

230

HAME iMA'-MISS MRS: ?

FiRST - MIGOLE INITiAL" LASTI

Thin to nonly you of the following action

NATURE ÓF ACTION IUSE STANDARO FERM

Base itod Aspotritiont

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

2 DATE OF •BIHTM

S'PRINNAL OMALTIONNO:

"I DATE

10/22/2900

9 SeptesDar 19471

employment:

• E EFFECTIVE DATE

9/9/1947

TY CIVIL SENNCE OR OTREE LEGAL AUTHORITE

schodula 1-20

¡ 8 POSITION TITLE

ALARI

Assistant Segional Manager

(Ialalllyan09 0991095)

IN 85179-50 pox antas

8-7.

10 ORGANIZATIONAL

ULSIGRATIONS

Oparations

Carteat

-Contral

Southars I.A:O.

11 HEADQUARTERS

-THIELD

DEHARTHENTAL

FIELD OR DEATE

1J. NEMANKS

#o BErlIO IfIldaTli bas baes proparis asorutod.

1* FIELD

DEPAR: BENTAL

tila aypointmant la nado subjoot to too patterastar

leilon of a trial pariod as ano your.

VETERAN'S PREFERENCE

ONE: SPT !

10 POIMS.

DISAB, WUL 11002 =

---^

sEx i RicE

i 19 APPROPRIATION

10

2185900.002

528-143

I SIGNATURE OR UTHER AUTHENTiCATION

¡ 16 POSITION CLASSIFICATION ACTION

MEW I VICE

LA, REM!

Ba. /F-22. 05 200.

3/2/47

"7:6

* SEREMENT ACT

21. DATE OF OATH

22 LEGAL RESIDENCE

• IACCESSINS ONLYRO

(TES - 10)

Ji Soptembert7

L021015393

GOVERNMELT PHINTING OFFICE 1941-7:394

4. PERSONNEL FOLDER COPY

---

## Page 90

14-00000

CUINIGLINIAL

SECURITY OFFICE

Investigation Report

CONFIDENTIAL

Subject:

mick, islliom do, ir.

To:

Cries, cordunnol Braroh

1. "Investigarson directed by: Fixi

2. Sources òf information:

3.

Remarks

Date:

28 August 1947

Nümber: 32458

4.

Rocommendarion:

IQUOr GUBTECT

CEO: DE CROOGATORY IICIAATIND AT 5.19H6

COUNSE

JAYS

LACE ARENE GATE

INVALIO.

DOCERIAL FECONES

Security orficor

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM

DEC

NO.

1048

38.108

1878

---

## Page 91

•PERSONNEL ACTION REQUEST

NAME:

•122 1an P. Burke, Jr.

NATURE OF ACTION:

an Arnolatzer

EFFECTIVE DATE:

OR AFPINATIONS.

203 septie 1947

LAST WORKING

FOR REVANATIONS FROM FADERAL SERVICE ONLY

SICINATURE OF EMPLOYEE:

FROM

2/ 15900

sages

CLASSIFICATION

14-8-42

9-2-47

85 2155200.001

528-

[DATE

081 2 6-0.7

•1A

VV

NEW

EMPLÖYMENT

3/4141

Schecticle a-20

MÉS PERSONNEL DEV INITIAL

175/42

11815/41

TO

asst

TITLE

GRADE AND SALARY

OFFICK

Onerations

DRANCH:

Contact

DIVISION

SECTION

e...

OFFICIAL STATION

Control

DEPT. Or FIELD

d.P::

Field

HEMARIS: * According to travel regelationo.

forms 35-1, 57, copy of Priority Fequest letters attached.

Jeer. 1/21

Dio Contest 190r9179-50° appointee

in grado P-l at entranco salary

of 38179.50 subject to

security cloaranco.

advant branch

FOR. THE DCI:

8-29

Warm

captein,

USN

Exacutivo Director p?

DATE

СОМИ ON CHE RACE ER OR ADAINGSTEATIVE OFFICER

7.10-47

FORM NO

OCT 194637-3

:139-0

(1514)

---

## Page 92

14-00000

BILIA! P. BURT3

6300 St. Orarlos 1re370, May Orlasta 16, Ig

6 vely

47

11 daly

47

COTPACE, IBUItal to Vashlaston

for IntOrTIon a LasmdDodory corroe

8 1/4 daya

€5.20

Prilion Orlosas, Ia, to D. U.

a retata

Igel fron asatlaa to bolol & patara

31.50

92.38

.50

$734.25

&

( )

€ jar2

10, 10a 1998 parano 1.

TI SEREN!:

ne3rb,e4s

JANES H. DON, O818 419:25

AOHIHISTRATIOND PENICES

672/689

@ 110)

1212

DONALDI V. NULLARE, CHIRP

PINSONALL, PHOCURINZAY INFION

09c0

•: 09

Jaco

1 80

."?:

':".

---

## Page 93

14-00000

SORFIDENTAL

• day 18e

Exacitivo for Irispoottone and Serarily

W1ll1a Patrick Darko, St.

In compllanco uith CIO Diroofive 15 and with authority from

tho Irojocto foriis Gamittoo.

hia branah u1ll spin in Intar Ageno,

offico in Me Orlenis, Loulelani no soon as tha soodesary poraonnal

may bo procossad sos emloymont.

Tio Southeritern aron of tho

Unitel Strias reprodento à fertile fleld for the onorationa of cho

Contact Brench and li la deened Advisablo to opon a Men Orlarge.

offico nt thia carilast giuialblo dato.

AT. W11:11u0 Satriot Burke, a natioo of son Orlorns, a exidurto

of Marvari mal Tsimo infversity Ins Sahools and a former Unjor

1a tha U. 3. Mariao Corru la undor conalderation for suloyment as 120

Actles Roglonal Managar Par this offico.

In order that his emplon

1n tle ahortest 20a:10lo Piro, 1: da ODDeClullY

ro:uosted that a pricity security lavestigition do prantes on tils

Individual.

Is ls roulseed that the total numbor of allovable

priosity Inrostitillons 1e very 11iltod, Sut 1a tha lastant onso,

the circungtonese are nich that the com-llance with this request will

maasurably all lu tro socorolishmert of the aiselon of trio braach.

Ja'n F. Flake

Asslatant Prooutivo. Offlcar

contact iranch

:,.

-..

CZSNOERALE

---

## Page 94

4-00000

SECRET

#GAMINT

DESCRIF TRON FERM

Mile cera titly con leted lece note a nt

Bottom of sheet)

accomany roamie for aamia:lon.of candidate

Aszeisment or

iralaing

Classos)

Regurat for:

( 11)

Agnessment- XXXX

(b) Tralnine

WILLIAN PATRICK BURKE, JEO

candluäto's race in sull:

Cover name It accessary:

Dato: July ?e 1947

Ag0_16_50x-

_Marital Stalus: Parriod. Branch: Contact: Deck: Flold

specifie statios to mich candidate 1a going: Non Orland, la.

For consultation call:

Doorza

_B. UcHanus

2.311

Branch Officer Sponsoring Candidato Phone ExtensIon

Has Security Checis been complotod?.

Type of Cover: -

2210 E. St.

Bidg

103

Roon No:

Tuilitary: Gort. Official; Profossional; Businoss; eti.

Titlo Of projected assignmont: (a) Contact Spectallat (b) Actino Fazicoal Marajer

Clull Sorvice classification and nalary lovol of projectod pooltion: P-7 8 8179.50

What will

tr: appalfle. dutlos of the

candidato?

description 1a essential; a goneral job

sando at not a detailed god concrote will

organize and run tie New Orleans Inter-agency offico In the 1n1tial stares

Has to establiah and maintain contact rith the top exocutivas of American

businass. jod.strial@daducational.Instltut1.220 Must.baable to.sall

CIa to that, zala thair conildence and astabliab a discract channal throug

in1ch all coralgn intollizonce avallable ta thasa arzanizationa can slour

to his ofilco.

what uro the prosational opportunities in tho prujocted position? _ dood

What w1ll be the adainistrativo or supervisory

responsibilities of the candidate?

(IS nono, write "none"') May avontually suvo to diract the activittas of ano

P-6. Bad ana Cá?-7.

Will tho candliate work alone or with othor peoplo? _ Hilth atbers.

Is the latter, how nany and what will be the candidate's actual working rolatlonship

to them, d go, closely e moratlve or relatively independ

? Ina tro rantlanad

aborte Clase caaparation.

WIll the candidate be working directly under a superviaing offluor? No

If not, how will ils work bo directed and revlewed? By ashington

What will be the living and working conditions under which the candidate is expected

to operato?

* For reasons of security, detalls

such as student's

une or specific mission

say be onlited in the

of undercover personnel, 15'30.

isired by the Degk.

FORY NO.

aT I9d6 5101 1289+107 01.1949

SECRET

=By be used)

(over)

---

## Page 95

SEMET

das apoclal quailcintions do you rich the candldetr lisiod for? -bondo-of-Beeurlsy

as ho must liva a normal 11se in his own homo town uhilo conductins

destroosoporationnoility-to-gleerdalnate botao0n-valuablo.1ntosttgonce

r-coraation and corthloaa.

¡bility to arrange facts cogontly on raper.

fast-and-dioepotteri

that/puriod and

tire 01 truintur ls consigured noccuary for the condituto kgrore

risesent in the fieldi about threo-seois in load Offtre-and-thon Inter Agoney

Aha: specläl skills, ur knowledge relaied to the job ices the candidate possesa?.

Ligaja UnIvorsity, New Orloans, i3, 1910,-Harvard Lax S6h001, i13, 1923.

Loçal banking, busicauo and sarina corpe experienco.

indionio

Knowledge

("511ght"

"Fair'

}..

foreign languages:

"wood")

Road

Sroak .

hrite

1.

Be schloning Information 19 required is in the

case ci candldates scheduled lor

trainlig:

Preticus

background in Intelligonce wori;-

Foriga rosidenco and I'orell

education—

dscupatioral history: (Job descriptions sra dates only)

Signed: Eur Pans o

Franch CiTicar Sponsoring Candidate

SECRET

iover)

18491)

---

## Page 96

14-0000

= CONFIDENTIL

i6 Juno 1947

LAMORAIDUM TO:

Deputy Director, CIG

THOUGH: Chief, Personnel Division

Subject: Assessment: of W11liam Patrick Burke, JT.

Reference's

Procedures Governing Payment of Per Dien

and Travel, Approved Under Project 00-5.

In accordance with the above referenced procedures, it

13 hereby requested

that aoproval be granted lor payment of

per diem and

travel for the purpose of bringing li. Burke

to Washington for assessment.

Mr. Burke was recently Interviewed in New Orleans by

Field Division, of the

Contact Branch of this orsica and Is recommended as being

well qualified for the Regional lanagership of the New

Orleans Interagency Office. It is considered that, in view

of the importance of the proposed position to the accomplish

ment of the Contact Branch mission, no final decision as to

his employment should be made without the benefit of assess

ment.

This office 1s an:jous to activate the New Orleans

Interagency Office as soon as possible and requests your

approval in order that an aarly date for lir. Burke's visit

to Washington may be made.

2.2.

Sile

E. L.

• SIBERT

Brigadier General, U.S. A.

• Assistant Director for Operations

de fina

topper

Dol

CONFIDENTIAL

---

