# 104-10331-10180

## Page 1

1104-10331-1018

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECKLI

... ...

0 5 AUG 1998

CI-100-98

MEMORANDUM FOR:

VIA:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Lee Strickland

Chief, Information Review Group

William McNair

DO/ IRO

Rodney G. Smith

Chief, Counterintelligence Center

(U) A New Search of CI Files for JEK

Assassination Records -- Status Report

(AIOU) OIM 98-0081, dated 30 July 1998

1.

(S) In response to OIM's tasking for any additional

information relating to the JFK assassination, the

Counterintelligence Center (CIC) is conducting a search based on

the search terms defined in reference memo OIM 98-0081.

2. (S) Methodology: To ensure a full and comprehensive

search of the disparate file-holding mechanisms in CIC (soft

files, LANs, databases etc.), a focal point in each CIC Group

has

been identified to coordinate the search and respective group's

response.

Tasking was levied

as defined in OIM 98-0081.

3. (S)

Findings: To date, an electronic search of CIC

files has surfaced:

a) CIOL 0423-97, dated 13 June 1997, which was

previously provided to JFK Assassination Records Review Board and

was

read by. Bill Joyce in the presence of Barry Harrelson, on 8

July 1998.

b) SBCI-4819, dated 22 April 1987; this CIC/ PRB

document and any other CIC/PRB findings are being handled by CE

Division.

CL BY 6289127

REASON 1.5 (c)

DECL X1

DRV HUM 4-82

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT:

(U) A New Search of CI Files for JFK Assassination

Records - Status Report

4. (S) CIC is reviewing all soft files using the new

search terms and has found one hit thus far which may have been

reported in an earlier search.

In an undated soft file labeled "NOSENKO Study by

Hart/Commentary" contains NOSENKO's comments on what he knew

about Oswald from his work in the KGB, discussing mainly

Oswald's attempt to commit suicide in the Soviet Union.

We are currently reviewing the historical soft files for the

terms noted in Ref and will advise if any additonal hits surface.

5. We believe that all of Angleton's files are archived and

maintained by IMS.

In the 1978-79 period, the ban on the

destruction of Angleton's Files, which was imposed by the Church

committee, was lifted, and a number of files were destroyed

pursuant

to the applicable records destruction schedule.

mishallf

Rodney G. Smith

Attachment:

OIM 98-0081

2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT:

A New

Search of CI Files for JFK Assassination

Records

Status Report

DO/CIC/EXO/F.Rockwel1:bn/74602

Distribution:

Orig

1

- Addressee

1

- DO/ IRO

2 - DDO Secretariat

1

- CIC/Chron

1

- CIC/EXO

1 - CIC/ IMO

(5 August 1998)

3

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

OIM 98-0081

30 July 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Chief, Counterintelligence Center. DO

Chief, Latin America Division, DO

Chief, CE. Division, DO

Lee Strickland

Chief, Information Review Group

Office of Information Management

(U) New Search of CI Files for JFK •

Assassination Records

(AIUO) Bulletin OIM. EB No. 02-98.

dated 22 July 1998

1.

(U) The JFK Board has made a number of recent

specific directed requests to assure that the Agency has

complied fully with the requirements of the JFK Act. Among

these was a request for issuance of the Reference Employee

Bulletin, in which the DCI directed that employees leave "no

stone unturned in assuring that relevant documents are

provided to the Commission.

2. . (U) In part because relevant new documents have

surfaced within the past few months, the Board has also

requested specific focus on renewed

searches of the Agency's

"counterintelligence files." The new documenta have

surfaced due to a variety of reasons, including references

to assassination related personalities in recent defector

reports, recoras made available because of the break up ot

the Soviet Union, and advances in search capabilities due to

digitization of older paper files.

CL. BY: [644243

CL REASON: 1.5C

DECL ON:

X1

DRV FRM: HUM 4 - 82

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: (U) New Search of CI Files for JFK Assassination

Records

(C)

In discusgions with the Board staff we have

attempted to focus any new tasking on those areas in which

they have expressed their greatest concern.

It is

imperative, however, that we satisfy the Board on these

issues or the Agency will be subject to a determination by

the Board that we are not in compliance with the JFK Act.

Because of the impending statutory termination of the Boarä

and their need to issue their report, there is some urgency

associated. with the conduct and completion of these

searches. The searches must be completed by 6 August, 1998.

(S) Databases to be Searched.

The addressees to

this memorandum are requested to perform new searches- using

the search terms in paragraph 5--on ANY of your files which

may contain information relating in any way to the JFK

assassination, including, in particular, all records systems

or files containing information on:

• James J. Angleton and his files

Debriefings of defectors in which ANY reference to oswald

or the JFK assassination occurs (Example, IUDECANTER)

5. (U)

Search Terms and Time Periods.

These new

searches should focus on documents that might be retrievable

with the following search terms over the referenced periods:

• The period 1959-1965 using the search terms Executive

Action, Exaction, Ex Action.

• Post-1978 information combining the term "assassination"

with president kennedy, John f. Kennedy, Kennedy, JFK.

presidential threats,

threats to U.S. President, attempt

(or attempted), or the crypt GIDEAL.

• Post-1978. information related to the following terms:

Warren Commission, House Select Committee on

Assassinations, HSCA, Oswald, Lee Harvey Oswald, Marina

Oswald, Jack Ruby, or GPFLOOR.

2

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT:

(U) New Search of CI Files for JFK Assassination

Records

6. (S) Information is also sought on:

• The identity and current location of personnel (either

the current assignment of employees or any knowledge of

current location of retirees) who participated in

debriefings of the preparation of reports on debriefings

Of INDECANTER.

• The destruction of James J. Angleton's files.

Such information should be brought immediately to the

attention of the Historical Review Program, OIM (BarrY.

Harrelson,

31825, Secure).

Same land

. strickland

(far).

SECRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT:

(U) New Search of CI Files for JFK Assassination

Recorda

DA/OIM/HRP/J0liver: tab/31805

(29JU198)

Distributión:

orie

• C/Counterintelligence Center/DO

1 - C/LA Division/DO

1

• C/CE Division/DO

1

• Fred Wichman, DO/JFK Focal Point

1

- Bill McNair, DO/IRO

- Gloria Boyd, DO/Asst/IRO

: Elleen Wukitch, DO/JFK Team

D/OIM

C/IRG

C/ HRP

Barry Harrelson, HRP

walt Hazlety, IRG

SECRET

---

