# 104-10185-10109

## Page 1

104-10185-10109

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Trilo 5at

S&-CR

E T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

5

2

COUNTAr CúNa

SOLECT GUillOrIO JIMENEZ

REPORT NO.

SATE DISTR

: C5 01-315/00700-64

22 ugust 190%

NO. PAGES

SATE: OF

iNFO.

::1954

PLACE &

Hashlagton,

D. C.

19341

REFERENCES

CSCI-3/779,413

5. Jacuary 196%

RETUANTO CIA

Background Use Only.

FiSID REPORT NO.

Do Not Reproduce

¡VATED INCORMATION SOLACE GRADINGS AiE GIENITiVE.

Attahich 05.45

ST'IS TENTATIVI

SOURCE: " lanter Cuban IS officer who sorvud with the Cubas

Intolligenco Service until April 1964.

adquarters Comments

The conlowing roport. 1s che of a sories contaluing personality

1n2orma:ion providad by cho curao aud includes suppiemental

information from the records of this dguncy.

=: ¿s requostod that the addressoos take no actior on any of

tha individuals

mentioned In

tho personality reparts sithout

¿ist caucking with this Ayoncy.

1.

2.

CúdLlOr.O JINENEZ, pseudonym. "Javior," is chief of the

Ispartment of Information

Seryicos (St) of the Direseton

Guiurai do Inteligoncia (General Direccorate of Intelligence -

Iüü) ard considored one vi the thire too people is the IGI.

ju cusacus at Calle este entre 35 y 37 ducvo Vecado, Habana.

JIvEZ raveled to doscow witchel PINEIRO satine alter

March loê%.

JINENEZ was aiso involved in the txI21

RoDIGUe who was exacuted in Cuba on 17 April 15a4 Palarcos

Headruarters Connents

1.

The iollowing information on Guillurro JIJa5ZZ is inforidi.c:

¿eceived aftor the disseminarion of the above referenced

report.

2.

an untosted source, in a report. dared 24 January ÷964,

saiu thai be first met Guillorno JIMENEZ in ere Castillo

del principe prison in sopreuder 1901, wiere source was

being neld after a routine

ariest in the Hotel Capsi in

August 1961.

JINENEZ,

ailogodiy,

was the first person to

attemp: to recruit source un behali. of the G-2.

JIMENEZ

3

2

I Niv

CINCLAT

CINCSO #

incro, tinid diste.bucion indicated by "="")

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEN

1 Ai2.

NS).

JENS

TES.

522

V

2/c1/sen

EX-1646

SO PROJECT

CSCI-316'

CCOFCIAATINI

12 MUN 1965 1/SA 7 (1), VE 1 (2), CI 4, RID I

201-759006

3/pV

---

## Page 2

3.

!:

nsl co.mmn Ge Med mü

ann đn th Minstt oì 10xczt7 Rclatios.

sourcu said

JINENIN NiS d HUUd löjund Oi Faiie ClO.ON.

Sourco describüd

JIMENEz as indolligent,

well indoctrinated politicaliy, ad

thar he hao jironded the Caireisity of jibana.

Source also

sa1d that dio and doard ciat diraraz haù sicitou ilo Soviot

Caion three timos ia 1959 and 1800.

Lie nia5 born about

:931,

is. five fee. sit liches

call, 155 pouads, las black, short,

curly hali, black eyés, a dard complexion and i modaur build.

This same source, in a report dared 2S Januaiy 1961, said.

that Guillermo JINENEZ is a Cubaa citizea rosadira at.

Castillo de Principe, Cuba, and a Cuban Intelligence Service

officer.

SE

C R

E T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

---

