# 104-10145-10043

## Page 1

80000

104-10145-10043

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY SECRET

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Wednesday - 20 October 1976

H

Page 4

RATS

77-0010 5-13

13. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Ken Brooten, on the

staft of the House Select Committee on Assassination, called requesting

any summary information the Agency might have on the Kennedy

assassination. I told Brooten that I had met with Richard Sprague,

also on the Committee staff, yesterday and Sprague had asked for

the same information and that I was in the process of determining

if it exists. Brooten was unaware that Sprague had requested this

information.

14. (Secret - PLC) BRIEFING Attended a pre-trip briefing of

George Murphy, Executive Director, Joint Atomic Energy Committee,

given by Bob Ames, NE Division, and

Is raeli Desk/DDO.

Murphy is accompanying a group of Members from the Committee who will

be visiting Cairo, Israel and Iran. Certain material was requested which

Ames will pull together. See Memorandum for the Record prepared by

Ames and

15. (Secret - PLC) LIAISON Met with Frank Slatinshek, Chief

Counsel, House Armed Services Committee staff, and gave him a copy each

of the classified and unclassified letters to the Agency from the House

Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control and we discussed the

sensitivity of the information requested. Slatinshek said we should try

to respond without disclosing sensitive operations or sensitive liaison

relationships. He said he would assist if we have problems. I gave him

before the Intelligence Process Course. He asked for a rundown of past

members of the PFIAB and any history as to its creation.

16. (Confidential - PLC) LIAISON Met with Claudia Wrazel, in

the office of Senator Alan Cranston (D., Calif.), and discussed the background

of the request from their constituent Kamal Kapur. She said she felt

assured that the Agency had not in any way investigated Kapur and will so

advise him. She will call me if anything further develops.

21288

17. (Confidential - PLC) TRAVEL Met with Frank Sullivan, Senate

27,15-137

Armed Services Committee staff, and clarified an incoming cable from

Chief of Station in Bonn stating that an advance itinerary from the Air Force

24 tea to Sage Ne n' (. /S a pia trip included diet otton in the

German government as intelligence chiefs are only within the various services.

Sullivan said this wa's probably a slip-up by the Air Force here. What is to be

scheduled is an intelligence briefing by the German Ministry of Defense.

Sullivan will straighten the matter out. Sullivan said Senator Nunn will not

CIA INTERNAP. is wAn called and will finalize arrangements.

---

