# 104-10215-10129

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10215-10129

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT ÖF 1992

MATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MENBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUSE:

CROZIER, ROSS LESTER

C- 25507

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

CI.

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAMIE)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

REVIEWED BY HSCA.

PERSONAL INFORMATION IN

NO DOCUNENTS MAY BE COPIED OR RENOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

PERSONAL INFORMATTON IT

25507 (KROZIBR)

---

## Page 3

14-00000

HO ANO SETENTOInE NE ENLEIARI dS tHIA TAPARE tO ME OTICO dI SEEErIES,

DuE sine ts LeaDerd of ens of the Gabject'a la under such LiTi COVER, to

are 00tt1ag ta 1120s ena cards es chase attached.

P11O8 COS ED DOT PS. BrOTeple Inotructions to so on 26 ipr 60.

truetade

C-25501

---

## Page 4

14-00000

•5?

1-'X: 15 Aprll 1960

SHE RAN 20.

BIANECD:

daytong

25507

112569

ANTARENES (1P ATY): COPY Of WHD mEC

and FRQ part. II.

SCRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

.TO

DATE

INSTRUCTION SHEET

ASE NO

Processing Branch:

15 Apr.6o.

TAKE ACTICK INDZCATEL DELON ON SUBJECT CASE

C-25507

(Always check "Remarks"

for limitations or details)

SET UP TOR POA!

EXPEDITE S.O. INDICES

DEXPEDITE FO: INDICES

SET UP FOR,

Do DOSA DeeSA [STarE treE "a"...

DISTAFF TYPE "go

Dease app Ose nourar

Дьон-т м. сык

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

EXTEND POA FOR

DAYS UNTIL

REINSTATE POR FOR

DAYS UNTIL

CHECK FOR 3.0.

DINDICES DreI INDICES

PREPARE CASCELLATION TORM

"Renneka" for Reason)

SEMO TO RIVARCHIVES

PREPARE INDEX CARD FOR NAMEIS) LISTED BELON

TICKLE FOR:

REMARKS:

REQUEST RI TRACES

REQUEST OPERATIONAL a DIVISION TRACES:

REQUEST FIELO TRACES

REQUEST

OPROI DAROI,

REQUEST ADDITIONAL BIOGRAPHIC DATA

REQUEST "GREEN LIST"

REQUEST RESULIS STATE "O" DOSSIER REVISO

REQUEST RESULTS

TECH INTERROGATION FROL:

O SECURITY OFFICE

PREPARE MEMO FE "EXPIRED" POA

PREPARE — COPIES OF ATTACHED FOR USE AS DELON

NOTICE:

Wist Dano

OTHER

baline

SIGNATURE

707 098

SECRET

1288

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SEGRET

12 AprIl 1960

HOPIORANDUM FORI Chaes, Offico of Security

VIA

SUBJECT

• Eblas, CI/0A

Karald &. NOELATE (ps)

C25507

8222569

1o. It 10 roquested that the CSA granted Harold R. NOEIAYR (ps),

formerly called Arthur G. VAIVADA (pa), on 3 July 1951 for use 10

Caba under Project AMPFIDARCH and latar amended to cover hia uso in

Mexico under Project WIllie, be furthar amanded to cover bis Pos to

Hoadquarters. is astivity in or bround the bashington, D.C. ares

sd1l also be covered under the LIEDG8 project.

2. Attached 18 a ney PRQ, Part II to cover his activity in

the Unitod States.

NOPAYR M111 continue to live under cover and

w131 probabis be reassignod overpas after a tho jear tour et

¿aadquartars.

(SA's aro being requestad under separate cover on bis idfe

and sistar in lar sho aro also living with bisi.

Note: Additional the molas copy sent to

5:0. per request 7

8 July healer

SECRET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

So June 1959

par

RoBB Lestor CROZIER

1. Reference is made to your request to this office dated

17 Арт11 1958

ne reply. to your request is contained in the attache

morandum from the Office of Security dated_ 29 Juna 1959

Chief, CI/QA

3-96 3

20:202-

Son" 388 var

PHIRVIOUSEDITION

SECRET

SAC AGO

147

---

## Page 8

14-00000

are tree Fee Here.

- 7,

SECRET

INSTRUCTION SHEET

TO

Processing Branch:

DATE.

30. June 59

TAKE ACTION INDICATOD

BELOW ON SUBJECT

CASE

(Alvays check

"Retaris" for limitations or details)

CASE NO.

C-25507

SET UP FOR POAS

EXPEDITI S.O. IMDICES

DIAPCOITE TOO INDICES

SET UP FOR:

STATE TAPE "8' DEROR APP SP IMQUIRY

GOv•T N. CHK

ISSuE

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

RIQUEST RI TRACES

ISSUE

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL

TRACES

CYTEND POA FOR

DAYS UNTIL

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

•EINSTATE POA FOR

DAYS UNTIL

REOUEST

OPRO I PRO I

CHECK FOR 5.0.

7075817097

COMARCAGERAGENT TO DIVISIO

DEBI INDICES

(WHo Aric)

REQUEST ADDITIONAL DIOGRAPHIC DATA

REQUEST "GREEM LIST"

FORMARD ATTACHMINT TO SECURITY OFFICE

PREPARE CAMCELLATION FORM

for Reason)

REQUEST RESULTS STAFF "D' DOSSIER REVIEN

REQUEST RISULTS TECH INTERROGATION FROM:

SECURITY OFFICE

JOINISION

"STRO TO PI/ARCHIVES

PREPARE

MEMO RE "EXPIRED"

POA

PRECURE INDEX CARD FOR MAMEIS) LISTEO DELCO

FILE

Orig S0. mano Sid 97 Jume 39.

TICKLE FOR:

RENARASI

PREPARE -

~ COPIES OF ATTACHED FOR USE AS BELO

NOTICE;

DISS CaNO DORO S FINAL

OTHER

T- 30 July 59.

(Supplending 50. mins)

SIGMATURE

707-90

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-1

(when Filled In,

29 JUN 1959

MEHORANDUM FOR: • Chief, CI/OA

PROH

: Deputy Director of Security (Investigations

and Support)

SUBJECT

C-25507

#212569

I. Reference i8 made to a negorandum dated 17 April 1958 from

Wa Division through CI/OA requesting that the Covert Security Approval

granted on 3 July 1957 be amended to permit Subject's utilization as

a career azent in Mexico City under Project LlEDGE.

This will confirm the verbal Covert Security Approval granted

to HT. LarTy Sule, Wi Division on 3 June 1958 for the use described

above:

2.

In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine

Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction -

Field No. 10-5, a covert security approval is grented for the use of

the Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1;

above.

Subjects of covert security approvals are not to represent

themselves as; nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security

approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions

of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore, 11 you should desire at agleter

late to change the status or use of this individual, a request

approval to cover any proposed change should be subaitted to thie

5. Indo approval becones invalid in the event the Subject ts

ervices are not utflized within six months of the date of this

senorandun.

FOR THE DIRBCIOR OP SECURITY:

Javid E. Hanlon

foriobert E. Cunninghar

S-B-C-R-B-T

---

## Page 10

SECRET

29 lay 1958

ME ORA:DUL FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

ALPHODARCH/ 2

C25507

1. On 23 April 1958 It. Lou geaby of the Office of Security

called in connection with the above desigated case, specifically

regarding the contingencies upon which the OSA dated 3 July 1957

was tranted.

Ic. Hamby advised that the investigation of Subject

has been completed and he has been given an Icrluis, both tita

favorable results.

In view of the foregoing the restrictions (contingencies)

In the 3 July 1957 approval are now renoved.. Wi Division has been

notified.

4.

Jin Burton, Project Branch CI/QA, was firen the

above information also.

Fe advised FI/poo jects In order that

further action could be taken in connection with the Project

renewal®

CI/QA

CI/QA/JBB:rc

SECRET

---

## Page 11

14-00000

TO:

INSTRUCTION SHEET

Processing Section

SET UP FORI

SECRET

(shen Fillod In)

DATE

14 жау 1958

PLEASE TAKE THE FOLLOWING ACTION ON THE CASE SET FORTH ABOVE.

(Albays check •Renorhoo beloo lor liniratione on decolla)

CASE NO.

0-25507

POA VITHI

PE0L1L200E4100

SET UP

FORt

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

INVESTIGATION STILL OUTSTANDING

FORRARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

FORBARD ATTACHMENT TO SECURITY.

MOTICES

18 7

200

PREPARE CARCELLATION FORM

SEND

TO RIPARCHIVES

FOLE

EXTENO POA FOR. MUM DAYS UNTIL

REMARES:

JOD A FINAL

REQUEST RI TRACES

REQUEST OPERATIONAL & DIY. TRACES

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

REQUEST

T.0..

REQUEST ADDITIONAL BIOGRAPHIC INFO

REQUEST GREEN LIST

FURNISH GREEM LIST IMFORMATION

REQUEST RESULTS OF TECH. INTERROGATION

SEND "QUERY" MEMO TO DIVISION

OTMER (See Rimarko)

124t

Pease prepas taken for 5 Quie 1258.

:1.180.

SECRET

drattern.

San A Bunta

---

## Page 12

14-0000

SECRET

CI/CA

14 may 1958

PE: Praguet LiEDGE

6 - 25507

I pris

telephoned the site to report that FI

reached by the Office f

authonging the agent's assignmet in

Mario City.

1. The crite agrud to aderise Ps/pipet.

when cE/07 receives a report from the

Effing Acunt.

Bunta

SECRET

---

## Page 13

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

CI/OA PROJECT REVIER FORM

Division.c.M

Cryptonym.

Type of Project..

Provido Made

handlas. C? operatlone....

Case officer. Loul! hobott

New Project.

.;Renewal of.

Amendment.

;Extension for.

1 May 2958

Project approval period from.........

Reconnendations:

to bo unad se clo

•Roon. 2? 1

......Ext. 998?

•year-old project.

months; termination.

30 A9x21 2999

....to........

100198 an1 LIUTTER talts aro estlilastartly recalvol.

E. A A'DS4 request fOr C3A fOr Dubjout'O Use in lcadeo Clty las cubaitted to tha 068100

of Security on 21 April 1953. Main tha 08s200 of Recurity Lazual Subject's leat CS1 03 3 Euly

195T, they recommended that fujest ba affandal e palyers es socu es poscible. Sibfoot tsa

EVER CA LEFLUTTER & SON dOyo dgo ind although subjoct ran clean the polyarupa operator bega

sitting sore racilos, os bits, regarding the subjact'd uila.: There la cata derogatosy later

mition 1n the litice al security cn that 16 belloral to ba the saijoot's t1f0 diad alster-Is

100g.

3. Tha 058100 dl Becurity has not reached a flial decledon regarding Cal dad ICPLEaS

¡as subfoot's vato.. "ber have statad, bouver, that unlads the tafe can be clasrad end

LoUria sosulte at clems, it 1a doubtfal tether a her clearance tould be lasued sos toe

Dato of SvaLugt:10%, 750dp011 1959

DistrIbutIon: 1: 520070906-8120

CI/OA Refering Officer

.. y

Chief, CI/DA

S-E-C-B-B-T

---

## Page 14

4-00000

TO:

INSTRUCTION SHEET

Processing Section

SECRET

dolled Io)

LATE

4/19/51

PLEASE TAKE THE FOLLOWING. ACTION ON THE CASE SET FORTH ABOVE.

(aluays check Renorks boloo for lioilarions or desoila)

CASE DO.

25507

SET UP DORI

ROA WITH:

SET US TORI

D.80

ISSUE

OPERATIOMAL

APPROVAL

ISSUE PROTISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

IAVESTICATION STILL OUTSTAMDINE

FOGORDO ASRACHMINT TO OIVISION

NOTICE!

$88

PREPARR CAMCELLATION FORM

SEND TO AL/ARCHIVES

''Copy attr

DAYS UNTIL

CIAl

100010r

corder

REQUEST RI TRACES

REQUEST OPERATIDUAL A DIV. TERCES

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

REQUEST

REQUEST ADDITIODAL BIOGRAPHIC INFO

REQUEST GREED LIST

FURMISH GRECH LIST INFORMATIDN

REQUEST RESULTS OF TECH- INTERROGATION

SCAD "QUERY" MEMO TO DIVISION

OTMEA (See Rcaarho)

prig of wi/t meno faiwarded to

Security 24 April 1958

00. 707

SECRET

---

## Page 15

4-00000

17 AprIl 1958

MZIORANDUA FORE CHiOS, DIfICe of Security

• Chief, CI/OA

VLA

FEDM

SUBNECT

Karold R. HOBIATE (pe)

C25507

8112565

It 18 regrastad that ta (EA granted ilesold 1. HO'AIR (F8), forger)y

called Artaur Do VAIVADI (Ds), os 3 July 1957 fOs USe in Cuba undor Projoct

¡PRODARCH, ba mendod to parult his use 1n ModiCO CIty. MOSMAYA will

•

he tranererod POS to 'arleo City in Yay 1958 mere ho till do cerried ander

Profe ot LIPUte shich 1o being proparod for subalsadon to 71/Projoctó for

approraL, Altached 18 8 Deu PRA Part II which covere our propocod use

duce, an

APR 23.

3 27 PH '58

DEZ

LiTE

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECRE1

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART II - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

alien tr..

iraF

Eo3ee.":

• IASTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER:

1: 18 8001

2.

Part ll

elasalfied, aust do

fillad in by the los

and la nos so bo

3.

a11l nol be able to proo

nasdare to all questions on pagal

Parall 8180083580581.

do ln obergoney theso

to leone 1 t018 by nuader,

and alth

SURDATY

of Part

3°

Fully coopleted

PRO DUST De sent to Meadquarters as 8000

a9 possible, too coples of

Pard l Ilneluding copy

subjaet's handariting, ll possiolal and one copy of Pare 11.

6o 9as9 acquired loser aunt!"

All pages of both

endquartare ls PRO former on a contlowing basla.

PRO nuaber,

nely by the

sad of lal station syadol

lold station ..g.

PGAIPROI1O.

36. Cryptony Harold ?. MUSLAYER (p) - (forner i Artaur. û. VAIVADA)

31°

How, when and where was subject firet contacted or developed?

Subieci was first recruited in ranana as miDiCPArIC in l'overter 1948

and transferred to Costa iica in approved MANOID project. Suose-

quently was Transferred to BIRADIAL project, PeSUCCESS and in 195l to

APODAaCH project, (Cuca) with which he is currently identified.

transfer to and activity in liesico vili be covered by iroject mcDo.

38.

Could subject be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to.

Bossono else for handling?

To whoa? Record over the

past years shods that subject has easily been turned over to different

projects and case officers.

39.

Bout estimato of subjoct's notivation

U. So citizer.

...=...

and as loya

berlares aniticiara! lo rottantase: i-

color tender Clere aut

47189. 83-058

SECRET

---

## Page 17

14-00000

. SECRET

PROL

40.

With what agencies and files ban aubject's name been checked? When?

Result? What olse has been done to verify biographical information

furnished by subjoct?

Checked upon recruitnent in Panama in 1949 and subseguently unon

transfer to otner projects.

41.

What control exists over subject at present? How can it be Increaged?

subject is controlles througi dependence or salary, loyalty because of

American heritage, past Army and Agercy service, and a desire for a

career in intelligence ork.

42. For what service does he think he is working? What does he think

becomes of his information?

* KUBARK

43.

Explain fully subjoct's past or present connection with any

Intelligenco sorrico.

While in the US Arny and V.S.A.F. fron 1940 - 1945 and again from

1946 = 1949, Subject was concemned with intelligence.

1: then dos eate s065222

male can

miserson criberoto do pisandse 3992

M: That type of Information has subject ruralahed? What type 1e bo

bost qualified by education and experienco to furntah!

Give.

evaluation of Information received.

None except through agents which he hendles.

= 8

SECRET

5 74-6

1 12118

---

## Page 18

14-00000

SECRET

_PROL

45. Il subject's dutles are to be other than intelligence gathering,

arplain.

it entire 21271?

It is anticipated Subject will be a outside case officer for the Fexico

City Station, handling Comunist and larsist party operations. Subject

will also act as z spotter and recruiter.

46. Has he been giren special tralning as an agent? Explain.

Subject received intelligence trairing og the Arny. He Has given covert

training by KUBARK fron 5 October thro an 25 lovember 1953, and again

fron 25 larch 1957 through 7 May 1957.

hiditional training will be

given nin at readquarters fron 21 doril taro-an 23 May 1958.

* 47. Hos and from whom doos he obtain information?

His prircipal function will be that of handling and spotting agents.

48. Is It proposed to pay subject a regular salary? Il 80, amount por

wook, month, etc. Explain any other nothods of payment, euch ae

archange commodities.

As per his contract, Subject receires the regular salary. of a S5-12,

plus allowances, with provisions for noraal step increases.

finder ree

49. Hato any pronies or countuents hatsoeter (not covered elsevhere

In this form) been sado to subjoct? Explato.

No. See contract signed by subject as a Career Agent.

gn Me Th MG LN 1 55 1850117

50.

ro Fablest language alities and ocher charactorsation such

..: ..

that ho could paas as a native of a country of region other than his

oun?. Explain.

He has native fluency in Spanish. For this reason he might pass as a

long-tine resiient ard possibly ever as a rational of certain Central

Anerican-Caribbean countries, although he has obvlous foreign paysical

characteristics.

-9.

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECRET

51. What 18 subject's social standing? Aristocracy, upper middle class,

Lover middlo class, peasantry, ots.?

POISE:

Hidale class

52. Wist are subject's personal habita? Ilquor, druge, gambling, mistresses

or lOverE?

-tra

'F"?

Believed to be normal in ali respects.

53. Evelastion of subject's character, rellability, socurity.

All noted excellent

.......

With what other foreign power would subject be nost llkely to

..."

collabarato bocause of hia 1do01ogJ, obligation, otc.? Explain.

lone.

•=//000000 AS A5216

i•li

- A

55. What special abllltles, talents, or quellficatione are possessed by

sub foct which vould concoltably bo of value for other operationa in

@:105.10r

Catas

the futuro?

Subject can send and receive norse code.

36. Attach emplos of rubjoot's algraturo and hendur1ting 11 all languagoe

mon to hia, also a rocent, datod photograph, and fingerprinte.

Previously subnitted.

itsit sion

Lace spence arcar

• 10 .

SECRET

---

## Page 20

14-00000

SINIST

_/PROL

57.

How vas Irformation 11 Part I obtaisod?

From Subject personally-

58. Other miscellaneous operational data and corments.

Caso Of$1001

• 11

---

## Page 21

14-00000

SECRET

(unea Pilled la)

TO

ATT..

FROM

SUBJECT :

APPROVAL REQUEST

Deputy Director of Security

Fice

2513 1 bldg

Chief,

CI/Operational Approval

and Support Division

C-25507

112569

TYPE OF REQUEST

por

CaA

о кор.

INDICES RESULTS REQUESTED

gr

DATE

PROJECT.

1l April 1958

HANDLING

A. FBI CHECK REQUESTED

or (Das0)

AREA OF SUBJICT'S ASSIENMENT

For briefing by C1/ICD and Wil/11]/Merdço representatives in safehouse.

USE OF SUBJECT

1. INVESTIGATION NOT TO REVEAL-

U. B. DOVEBHUEOT

cod.

REST DE

COVER SUGGESTIO FOR

IHVESTIGATION

OFFICIAL

RESULTS OF

TRACES

FIELD TRACES

TRACES

1O. ATTACHHENTS

12.

REMARKS

GREEN LIST SMITIATED

NO.

I JUN 38

693

SECRET

---

## Page 22

14-00000

SECRET

emen fellad 101

'''I Am 58

TO:

INSTRUCTION SHEET

Processing Section

SET UP FORI

POA WITHS

EXPROITA

INDICES

SET UP FOR!

C-2550)

PLEASE TAKE THE FOLLOBING ACTION ON THE CASE SET FORTH ABOVE.

(Aluoyo check "Resorto boloo lor linirationa or daraila!

JPR00 APO

ISSUE OPERATIONAL

APPROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

INVESTIGATION STILL OUTSTANDING

FORBARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

FORWARD

ATTACHMENT TO SECURITY

NU11648

2MD

PREPARE CANCELLATION FORM

SEND

TO RI/ARCHIVES

FILE

EXTEND POA'FOR

REMARKS:

•_=. DAYS UNTIL

REQUEST RI TRALES

REQUEST OPENATIJAAL @ DIV. TRACES

BEQUEST FIELD TRACES

REQUEST

Дева 1.

REQUEST ADDITIORL BIOGRAPHIC INFO

RIQUEST GREEN REST

FURNISH GREEN LIST INFORMATICN

REQUEST RESULTS CE TECH. INTERROGATION

SERD "OUERY" MEMO TO DIVISION

OTMER (STO REPArtE)

Use: For briefing by CI/ISS and

WH/Ill Nepco representatives on

safelouse.

Buttitle

707

DEOLATE

SECRET

---

## Page 23

14-0000

21 Арті] 1958

HEHGRANDUM FOR

8 Chial, Safabouse BraDes, OFFIOR Of LOglitiCs

THROUGH

1 Giles, Central Cover Bresch, ID/P

REQUKSTING OFTICBE Ka/IIT/Kexoo

CASB OFFICER

8 Louta Do Fuokett, Ext, 2955, 3162

PROJECT

8 O08, texico City Station Allotient #o- 803570-83-599

REPERINCB

• R 45-2025, 25 June 1956

sype of safehousa regaestodi Offloo

Loestion and Invirossants Heshingten, D. Go = basiness arce

Marissa PrICO Pangos $50/weak

Tos 23 Hey 1958

Intendod loer Safebruse vill be occupted by one (1) career agent

and personnel fron tha CI Staff and HH/III/:erd00.. Ius agent illl

Live elsettore, not in the salahouse.

The agent 18 a U.S. citises,

36 fears oldi.

Sensteive natorial vill be is the safehouse durin

the day.

Fono vill bo left overnight. l tape recorder for play

back will be used thare dustas the day and vill be stored overaight.

Subject 10 a U. So eltiena a his covar 18 PoRt

o lore a a Servese Institure, (a Bollenal polling fata

1n Dallas, Texas. DerInE a pocent operalional trip he tock phota

prephs which have appaered in the lay leth Ilegh and the Hey Lert

VIrglada, derleg tse agent's stay la tho lastlagton area.

Ro Be Dahlene

Puado ata evallablas

OBNIGATION REFERENCE

CHARGE TO I SEVENT 1

g0?r2

733

8/3510-83-529

мие

AUTHORIZING OFFICER

---

## Page 24

SECRET

CI/CA

COLINTS:

ahurting in secret, office were

held with the potlow in frien

Chice-stants sss

B. passes i feas 558

In. Reynsed,.

w. achel.

wit dis -

-as stiff

fingere the cute odies

5.0.

will work ont

detach for we and fifet

well prose to Brought

E mini.

DAIS: 9 du 1951.

1) IR la di fil on Situit

/ quester de me

SECRET

---

## Page 25

4-00000

SECRET

(Thes Pillad In)

MEMORARDLH FOX:

WH/IIT - Willard Galbraith, Chief

15 ju2 57

FROM:

SUBJECT:

CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

CROZIRR, ROSs LeSter

Your request dated_

26 Feb 56

to use the Subject has been processed

by the Office of Security.

2. The results

of this action

are transnitted herewith.

for approval

Attachment:

80 пато 3 Ja) 57. 80

Theme Burel, f

Distribution:

1 Addressee

I Pile

IMGROFILMED

DEC. 6 1957

SECRET

*0; 388

---

## Page 26

12-00000 4

1O:

INSTRUCTION SHEET

SECRET

aahen Filled 1os.

JATE

11 9us,51

Frocessing Section

PLEASE TAXE THE FOLLOWING ACTION Ci THE CASE

SET FORTH ABUVE.

(Aluaye check •Broorkro boloo lor lisitarione ol dessile)

CASE NO.

0- 25507

SET UP FORI

РОд UITН:

SEY UP FOR:

Tes.

Dorsa

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

INVESTIGATION STILL DUTSTANDINE

FORDARD

ATTACHHEMT TO SECURITY

MOTICE:

PREPARE CANCELLATION FORM.

SEND TO RIPARCHIVES

FILE

EXTEMO POA FOR

BEMAARS:

RIPROPIE POI CARCA DOS

SPECIAL

100609

REQUEST RI TRACES

REQUEST DPERATIOHAL a DIV. TRACES

REQUEST FICLO TRACES

REQUiST

J.oo1

Dano l.

REQUEST ADDITIONAL BIDGRAPMIC INFO

REQUEST GREEN LIST

FURNISH GALES LIST INTORMATION

REQUEST RESULTS OF TECH. IMTERROGATION

SENO "QUERY" MEMO TO DIVISION

OTHER (Ser Kraarka)

DAYS UNTIL

(944 004).

3A2421

12.Ed

sancti

SECRET

---

## Page 27

4-00000

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

3 Chief, CI/0A

DATE:

3 JUL 1957

FROM.

Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Support)

SUBJECT:

C-25507

#112569

lo Reference is made to jour memorandum dated 28 Febivary

1957 wherein a covert security approval bas requested to enable

the Subject's conversion fron contract agent to career agent

status for use as prircipal agent for Froject AMPIIOLAPCH 1n

Cuba under non official corer.

Reference is also made to our

memorancua of 2 April 1957 in which a provisional covert

security clearance was granted for the above use.

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in the

Diroctor's Memorandun of IL February 1949 entitled,

"Security

and Operational Clearances," a covert security clearance 13

granted for

the use of the Subject, as described in your request

as set forth in paragrach 1, above.

3. Inis clearance is contingent upon the following:

a. The receipt by this office of full overseas

traces and such actial overseas investigation as is

possible on Subject and on his wife and her family.

bo that Subject be afforded a solygraph inter-

rogation as soon as possible and toat the verbatum

results be prouptly furnished to this office.

office of Security will be happy to assist in

...

arranging this interrogation.

4 Subjects of covert security clearances ars not to represent

thenselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees ar =

5. Your attention is called to the fact that a covert socurity

clearance does not constitute complete canpliance with the

provisions of CIA Regulation 10-211. Iserefore, 1f you should

desire at a later date to change the status or use of this

Indivicual, a request for clearance to cover any proposed change

should be submitted to this offica.

SECRET

---

## Page 28

14-011000

SECRET

3 JUL 1957

6. This clearance becones invalid in the event the Subject's

services are not utilized within 60 days of the date of this

menorandum.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Robert

1. Cunninghar.

SECRET

---

## Page 29

14-00000

SECRET

1e't

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: Chief, CI/04

DATE: 3 JUL 1957

FROM : Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Suppart)

SUBJECT:

Crozies, face vester

C-25507

#112569

1. Concurrent with this renorandum a covert security

clearance is being issued to enable the Subject's conversion fran

contract agent to career agent for use as principal agent for

Project AlPiCARCH in Cuba under non-official cover.

2. This is to advise that infomation has been received

Iran a confidential source of the Office of Security. concerning

Argentina CORDERO Calderon and her sister, Counsuelo, who are

believed to te the Subject's vile and sister-in-law respectively.

According to a Decenber 1944 report, the above individuals were

described as Costa Rican citizens then in Panama under

suspicion and members of the Russian Ballet tean of Pedro and

Lidia CHUPRINE. Argenting is krown to speak and understand

Germas. She as formerly narried to Pedro MARZAL, reportedly

& German rati:nal and formerly on both British and U. S.

Proclaimed List. She is reliably reported to have made pro

German renarks and is pro-Geran in her sympathies. It vas

further reported that both of the above indivisuals have at

times attempted. to secure infarzation fran members of the

American Arned Forces.

3o In view of the above information, it is requested that

current overseas traces and investigation be concicted on the

and other nembers of his wife's immediate family and that the

results thereaf be furnished this office.

Lo The covert security clearance which 1s being issued

in this case is made contingent upon the faovrable results of

the requested overseas traces and investigation.

FOR THB DIRECTOR OF SECURITIS

==

Kur, thall

Robes

I. Canningham

This does in the propery di it Security Ofice Ind rockd be errassed ubeal

00n

This materal shril not ba specieon

b en

pris

appearal e de

O866s

SECRET

---

## Page 30

14-00000

SECRET

(Thian Pilled la)

li April 1957

MEMORANDUM FOR:

wn/dil/Cuoa/McAuley

FROM:

SUBJECT:

CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

Crucial, hosy Lostor

for approval

Your request dated_

to use the Subject has been procesSer y

•the office of Security.

2. The results of this action are transmitted berewith.

Attachment:

so beno 2 hpr1l 1957/pär

Distribution:

I Addressee

1 Pilo

Denie fo

SECRET

---

## Page 31

14-00000

, SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Chief, CI/CA

DATE: 2 APR 195%

FROM:

Acting Deputy Diructor of Security (Investigations

and Support)

SUBJECT:

C-25507

#212569

l.

Reference is made to your renorandun dated 28 February 1957,

wherein a provisional covert security approval and a covert security

approval were requested to enable the Subject's conversion to career

agent status for use

as Principal Agent for Project AMPHODARCH in

Cuba, under ron-official cover.

In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine,

Services Instruction No, 10-5 and Field Regulation 10-215, a pro

visional covert security approval is granted for the use of the

Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragraph the.

above.

3.

It should be noted that the provisional covert security

approval herein granted is tased

on limited InvestlealiTe coreract

and should not te in any way construed as a final security deter-

«Bination relative to a full covert security approval. Upon com-

pleticn of additional investigation now pending, you will ve ap-

propriately advised as to our decision with regard to the issuance

of a full covert security approval.

Lo Subjects of provisional comrt security approvals are not

to represent thenselves as, nor are they to be represented as,

employees of CIA.

5.

Your attention is called to the fact that a provisional

covert security approval does not constitute complete compliance

vith the provisions of CIA Regulation 10-210.

Therefore, if you should

desire at a later date to charge the status or use of this individual,

a request for approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted

to this office.

This approval becones invalid in the event the Subjact's

ervices ase not utilized within 60 days of the dato of this seno-

FOR THE DIRECIOR OF SECURITYS

Fred H. Holl

Fred H. Hall

SECRET

---

## Page 32

14-00000

SLURET

8 March 1957

MEMORANDUM FORA CAleS, Offico of Security

VIAS

SUBJECT

Chief, CI/CA

Arthur G. VAIVADA (Bp.)

C25507

lo Referenoo 18 made to Os'a verbal roquest of 7 March 1957, for

additional information on Subiect In connection with our roquest for a

Bror1s1oml Corert Socurity Apiisoval datod 26 Febauary 1957.

2.

Subject tea born in Do Kalb, Dlisols, on 20 June 1922. Re

reselved ble prinary and high school education In De Kalb and ontered

tho U. S. Arzy 1o 1940, later transferring to the U. S. Air Porce. He

served as as operations and Intolligence spocalist, first in the China-

Bruins theater and later in Fanama.

He was discharged from the servloe

In 1945 vith the grade of Technical Sergeant. After bla sacharge, ho

vorked for a brief perfod as a laboratory technician in the Sterling

(1121n01s) S1l1ca-Cel Corporation and then returned to the Panam Canal

Zono to marry a Costa Rican girl In December 1945. For about four wouthe

ho vartod as a stevedore and labor foreman in tho Canal tore. In April

1946 ho re-enlisted in the Air Force In the Canal Zone and was discharged

throe youre later, In 1949.

3.

Late so 1948 ho vas recrilted by the Agency, asd on 2 June 1949

bocano a CIA contract agent.

Since that dato, ho has served as a COD-

tract agest with contiming high lovel perforarco, first in Costa Rica,

later in Quatemala and Cuba.

He 18 currently assigned to Cuba ubero be

1a at/lised as Principal Agent of Project A'PHODARCH.. Subject has varked

priaodpally and successfully 8o, on Coumniot Party penetration opera-

and the student youth circles in generel is Cuba.

ho Sabject has allays pronos to ba loyäl and tiritworthy. In they

al bis artotanding record and strong overall juallficatioos, and bi.

expressed desire for a career vith CIA, 1t has boon recomesdad he be

converted frou contract to career agent status. He vas pronoted rocently

so the equivalent al a G8-10 rating.

Sturtl

---

## Page 33

SECRET

2

50

Subject's spouso, a Costa Rican aitizen, has expressed doalso

8o soquiro U, 8o citirenship, and has sou mado the secessary arrango

ments to accompary her husband to the U. 8. for this purpose, whon

subjeot returns for Covert trilning at loadquarters in the tory Dear

risture.

6.

Covert Securlty Approval, v1th an expodito Provisional Covert

security Approval, ban bean requestod is connection with the recocmenda-

tion to convert Subjoot Iron contract to start status.

J: G. KIIO

Chios, Hestora Heatophoro DivIalo

SECRET

---

## Page 34

SECRET

(Thora Pillad 1n)

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND (OR) NAME CHECK

TO

Deputy Director of Security

ATT: MIe Rico

2628 I

FROM

Chief,

CI/Operational Approval

and Support Division

C-25507

SUBJECT :

#212569

POSA SE

TYPE OF CLOULTY

1eo00.

S. iNDICES RESULTS REQUESTED BY

28 February 1957

PROJECT.

POSA requested by

15 riarch 1957.

2• METHOD 00

FDI CHECK REQUESTED

BY. (Date)

3..

AREA OF SUDDECT'S ASSIGUMENT

(WH/III/Cuba)

.

USE Of SUBJECT

see rewarka

Telestlestler

LEST OF

COVER

SUGGESTED

INVESTIGATION

.

O TMLA:

D. RESULTS OF TRACES

FIELD TRACES

NDI

TRACES

NDI

10.

ATTACHMEYTS

12: REMARKS

GREEN LIST

PHS

6

Subject has served CIA in a contract capacity since 1949, with a continuous

high lavel of performance.

le 18 currently assigned to Cuba, where be 1s being

utilised a the Principal Agent for Project AMPHOLARCH.

ProjeCt AMPHOCAFCH 18 20

FI operation designed to provide information on political activities (Including

Communist) in university circles in Havana, Cuba. In vlew of his outstanding

record and strong, overall qualifications, and his expressed desire for a carter

vita CIA, 1t has been recommended he be converted from contract to carcer agent

states.

Howar bruse, for.

693

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

---

## Page 35

14-00000

TO:

INSTRUCTION SHEET

Processing Section

SECRET

(Shen Filled In)

2) Febisi

CASE DO.

25507

PLEASE TAKE THE FOLLOWING ACTION ON THE CASE SET FORTH ABOVE.

(Aluoya chock •Remorho balon for Limitationa or dotoila)

SET UP TORI

ФОЛ DITH.

SEY UP FORI

ISSUE OPERATIONAL

APPROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

INVESTIGATION STILL OUTSTANDING

FORMARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

TORMARO NESREMIGUZ SO SECURITY

MOTICES

188

- 240

PRIPARE CANCELLATION FORM

SEND TO DIP ARCHIVES

izuishs

specree inourer→correr anot

REQUEST dI TRACES

REQUEST OPERATIONAL A DIY. TRACES

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

REQUEST

T......

REQUEST ADDITIONAL DIOGRAPHIC INTO

EXTEND POA FOR

FURNISH GREEN LIST INTORMATION

REQUEST RESULTS OT. TECH, IMTERAOGATION

SEMO "QUERY" MEMO TO DIVISION

binea see Remarka,

Pro

DAYS UNTIL

tanh

Fastent.

SECRET

---

## Page 36

14-00000

SECRET

(then

filled in)

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND APPROVAL

GATE

26 February 1957

PROJECT

TO:

CI/Operational Approval and Support

Division

FROM:

Divisions. H/IIT/CUBA

CI/OA FILE MO.

SO FILE NO.

SUBJECT

TEjE

NAME

Ross Lester CORZIER

C-25507

Arthur G. VA IVADA

MPE OF AGENT DA ENTLOYEE

USE OF AGENT OR EMPLOYEE (Full derail»).

Subiest has served (IA In a contract crpacity since 1949, soth a contimous

high level of performance. He is currently assigned to Cuba, where he is being

utilized as the Principal Agent for Project ALPHODARCH. Project AMPHODARCH 13

an FI operation designed to provide inforuation on political activities (including

•Coummist) 1n university circles in Havana, Cube. In vier of his outstandiag

record and strong overall qualifications, and his expressed desire for a career

with CIa, it has been recomended he be converted fron contract to career agent status.

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONK ARJUAL

PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY NPROVA 15 TARA

X COVERT SECURITY APPRONAL

OPIRATIDALL APPOSTAL

PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

COVERMMIGT SANE CHECK

SPECIAL INQJITY (SO field investiestion)

OTHER:

PRO AND GREEN

LIST STATUS

PaQ I.

OR EQUIVALENT.

IS ATTACHEO IN

TOO COPIES

PRO II DILL BE FORDARDEO MEN RECEIVED

GREEN LIST CHECK HAS GEES IMITIATED

1S ATTACHED.

IF. OBTAINABLE

FIELD TRACES.

TILL DE FORTARDED OMEN RECEIYED

I RETEAL.NO

IOFOAMATION OF

vALUE

INFERUATION

AS ATTACHED

NOT INITIATED. MOT EXPECTED TO POSSESS RELEVANT INFO.

SUGGESTED INVESTIGATIVE COVER:

ACADEMIC

COVERUMENY

CONDERCIAL

OTHER:

DIVISION TRACES

RI TRACES

recons: (Bot derogatory

IRDICATE SPECIAL LIVITATIONS ON INVESTIGATION OR SPECIAL COVERAGE DESTROO

•CORO (Not derogatory)

NO RECONO

SUBJECT

SUGA

H. Galbraith

SECRET.

тами

= *9; T72

---

## Page 37

14-00000

PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

Instructions: 1. Answer all questions comuletely. I question is not applicable write "N.1." Write

"unknown" ouls it you do not know the answer and cannot obtain the answer from

in: personal records Use the blanl pages at the end of this form for extra details on

ars question or questions for which you do not have suficient room.

r:2. Type, print, or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consid-

eration

HAVE YOU LEAD AND DO YOU UNDERSTAND THE INSTRUCTIONS?

(Tes or No)

SEC. 1. PERSONAL EACKGROLND

Misa

A PULL NAME SESA

‹ Use No

battiale)

Hos

PRESENT ADDRESS

PERSLANENT ADDRESS

..: Ease

B NICKNAME

E058

Laster

GrOZIET

Telephase alone

Jians

(triddle)

(Last)

Ext-

Home

5th Street 635, Havana (Vodado)

Sat Jill Tbas,

Sid J030,

Caba

(Coatry)

Costa Rloa

15e and landers.

(aN)

(State)

_ WHAT OTHER NAMES HAVE YOU USED!

UNDER HAI CIRCUMSTANCES HAVE YOU EVER USED THESE

кАз :

NAMES?

HOW LONG!

'ALBGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS

EA

"wh20' Jaso 1922:

C DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIETH

Us.

-BT BIRTH?

Dela18,

16703

Tinots

(Scate)

BY MARRIAGE?

USA

Samary

SE PRESENT CIMENSHIP

BY NATURALZATION CERTIFICATE 5O.

mass.

AT

1051

1540)

BAVE YOU HAD A PREVIOUS NATIONALITY!

HELD BEiNKEY WHAT DATESY TO

--=-====-=--

EVE PARCELAIS

ISSUED

(Deta)

-- BY

(ONEt)

(Ton or No)

ANT OTHER NATIONALITY?

HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE PRESENT CITIZENSHTP!

- GIVE PARTICULARS:

Đ09 185 38-1

---

## Page 38

14-00000

(8)

E IF BORN OUTSIDE U. 8. WHEN DID YOU FIRST. ARRIVE IN THIS COUNTRY? -

HA

PORT OF ENTRY? ...

_. ON PASSPORT OF FHAT COUNTRY? ..

LAST U.S. VISA

(Place of lance)

(Delo of lama)

SEC. 2 PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION

34

AGE

SEX

692°

HEIGHT -

WEIGHT

173

Bana

EYES

slander

BUILD -

HAIR

- COMPLEXION _

Foaddy

_ SCARS -

Hone

- OTHER DISTINGUISHL'G FEATURES -

Hose broken to laft

SPAI

3. MARITAL STATUS

A SINGLE -

Yeg

MARRIED -

_ DIVORCED _

i WIDOWED -

STATE DATE, PLACE, AND REASON FOB ALL SEPARATIONS, DITORCES OR ANNULSIENTS.

B. WIFE OR HUSBAND (IP YOU HAVE BEEN MARRIED MORE THAN ONCE-INCLUDING ANNUL

MENTS- USE A SEPARATE SREET FOR FORMER WIFE OR HUSBAND GIVING DATA REQUIRED

BELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.)

NAME OF SPOUSE -

Argentina de los Angeles Cordero de Croader

(Leet)

PLACE AND DATE OF MARRIAGE -

17 Doo, 1945, Crlatobal, Canal Zong

BIS (OR HER) ADDRESS BEFORE MARRIAGE Be a Vende

San 5o0, Costa Roa

(State)

LIVING OR DECEASED - IVIng

_ DATE OF DECEASE

- CAUSE.

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS_ Sth Sto, to, 655 Yedado, Babana, Caba

(St and Number)

(Stare)

(Coastry)

SEE F1 DATE OF BETE 15/3/23_ PLACE OF BIETE

San Jose, Costa Rich (onsi

LE BORN OUTSIDE U. & INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY .

CTIZENSRIP Costa MOHEN ACQUIRED BE WHERE: 30A J000

aa d000, Gall

OCCUPATION -

Bosserdre

- LAST EMPLOYER -

EXPLOYER'S OB BUSINESS ADDRESS

ThEM ULITARY SERVICE FROM.

COUNTRY

D, BRANCH OF SERVICE.

DETAILS OF OTHER GOVT. SERVICE, U. S. OR FOREIGN

---

## Page 39

14-00000

SEr. 4. CHILDREN OR DEPENDENTS (Incle partial dependents) :

1. NAME ROBE Araulfo Crostes

CITIZENSHIP _

_ ADDRESS

2 NAME

Lillian Caridad Croster

CITIZENSHIP

_ ADDRESS

8, NAME

RA

RELATIONSHIP

_ AGE

5th Sto, No. 655, Babana, Caba

(82 abd Naber)

(Ot)

(Scala)

Daughtes

RELATIONSHIP

AGE.

5th Sta, Fo.

655, Esbera, Cuba

(81 and Noiber)

(City)

• (81ace)

(Cooners)

RELATIONSHIP

AGE

CITIZENSHIP S

- ADDRESS - Ise and Suaders

(Car)

(8cere)

(Comass)

SEC. '5. FATHER (Give the same information for stepfather and/or guardian on a separate sheet)

Lostor

Groster

FULL NAME -

(Midate)

LIVING OR DECEASED LiVIng

- DATE OF DECEASE

RR: No. 1

iampico

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS -

(52 aod Number)

(007)

DATE OF BIRTH MAr. 15 190 LACE OF BIRTH

Palestine

(005)

IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OP ENTRY

CITIZENSHIP ..

Dis

_ WHEN ACQUIRED? _

Birth

CAUSE -

Dlinola

18680

USA

(State)

(Comers)

Trackdriver

OCCUPATION -

above

WHERE? -

Self-employal ista

(Coastia)

EMPLOYER'S OR OWN BUSINESS ADDRESS

1977

MILITARY SERVICE FROM -

_- TO

Theatres

(Dare)

Prance-Belglum

_ LAST EMPLOYER

FR 5o. 1

Despico

1191%

Nashes)

(CặT)

(Date)

_ BRANCH OF SERVICE

_ DETAILS OF OTHEB GOVT. SERVICE, U. S. OR FOREIGN

^ 1

SEC

6. MOTHER (Give the same information for, stepmother on a separate sheet)

.. FULL NAME -

sirabett

(tra)

(Nise)

LIVING OR DECRASED LIVAG DATE OF DECEASE -

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS.

ER 8O, 1

sarploo

182 and Naber)

DATE OF BIETE Bopk. 1903 PLACE OF BIRTE

CITIZENSHIP

WHEN ACQUIRED?

Birth

IF BORN OUTSIDE U. &. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY _

McK1 bbers

(last)

• CAUSE -

US!

&bove

---

## Page 40

14-00000

SEC.

SBa

270*

(1)

OCCUPATION

Housewite

LAST EMPLOYER

EMPLOYER'S OR OWN BUSLESS ADDRESS Salaa coins

"(State)"

(Coualry)

MILITARY SERVICE FROM _

HA: TO -

NA __ BRANCH OF SERVICE -

-MA

COUNTRY_

-_ DETAILS OF OTHER GOVT. SERVICE, U. & OR FOREIGN

FoDA

7. BROTHERS AND SISTERS (Including half-, step, and adopted brothers and sisters) :

1. FULL NAME _ James

Far]

(Firat)

(Middle)

Croster AGE 11

PRESENT ADDRESS... and Sater)

2 FULL NAME - Im

(PITER)

RR 100 1

PRESENT ADDRESS (St and Reber)

(stase)

I111Y

Tampico, Toda

US

(Attenthis)

Crosden

AGE

-32

(Les)

& FULL NATE __ Elanche

(Mickles)

PRESENT ADDRESS 1900 Canal Stee Rock Tell, Told

1 FULL NANE - 1952.

Estria

(Cirtzenship)

GOSLOT AGE - 30

US

"Tatirenship)

GOBLET AGE - 74

(Les)

PRESENT ADDRESS $01t 10t AT° Sterlinsa Aloode

(Country)

5. FULL NAME -

_AA.

(Pirat).

(Midle)

Ran; AGE -

PRESENT ADDRESS 15h add Sember!

(Scase)

(Conster.

(Citizenabls)

(÷2.

8. FATHER-IN-LAW

---2

Cordero Lolsta

Misdotte)

(Lost)

LIVING OR DECEASED _ DeCe. DATE OP DECEASE Oot, 26, 'ESE Carolmal, Rea

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS i sea

DATE OF BISTE _ 182 PLACE OF BIRTH.

1037).

Ses Jopo, Conte Blon

* IF BORN OUTSIDE U. 8. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY -

CLUEBATE!

4: C¡OCCUPATION' Hosloden

LAST EMPLOYER-

---

## Page 41

14-00000

SEC

9. MOTHER-IN-LAW.

FULL NAME -

(Flrst)

futiles

LIVING OR DECEASED - VIRE DATE OF DECEASE -ES

Cordera Calderoe

(1052)

• CAUSE _

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS -

(Be and Numbe

Ben. Just 71bade Sar, J000, Casta Casta On

DATE OF BIRTH -

Septo 7, 1492ACE OF BIETE -

Sen Jase, Casta Rica

IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY --

CITIZENSHIP

Costa RICaRHEN ACQUIRED! -

Birth

__ WHERE? -

Abora.

sau)

"(Stare)

(Constry)

OCCUPATION -

Houserife

LAST EMPLOYER

SEC.

10. RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION, WHO EITHER LIVE ABROAD

OR TYHO ARE NOT CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES:

1. NAME Nors Cardere da Gogor.:_ RELATIONSHIP alotes to Low AGE - 24

CITIZENSEIP Costa Rican. ADDRESS: Ban 2655, Coletobal iSi (Qtz)

2 NAME Iabel Cordera da Maranja RELATIONSHIP B18t08-10-IeVAGE - 27-

CITIZENSHIP Costa Rican

ADDRESS Pa Fires, San Jong Costa Pla

& NAME-

'Consuelo Cordero Calderon

_ RELATIONSSIP SIsterIDAL AGE - 29.

101

CITIZENSHIP Costa RIcan

- ADDRESS

SEC. 11. RELATIVES BY BLOOD.OR MARRIAGE IN THE MILITARY OR CIVIL SERVICE OF

THE U.S. OR OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT:

HOB

2a0hora0111022:

1. NAME -

FA

- RELATIOSSHIP

L AGE

D' CITIENSHIP

ADDRESS and Ne

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (IF KNOWN) —

(010)

(Cants)

& NAME

REZATIONSHIP

LAGE -

ITZENSHIP.

- ADDRESS Is and Not To)

"FIRE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (UP ENOWN -

(auste)

(Corator)

i: & NAME

ATTENSE

•.35

- ADDRESS -

3EC 5 LIPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (IF KNOWN) .

_ RELATIONSHIP:

AGE.

(se, and Naber)

---

## Page 42

14-00000

(6)

SEC. 12 POSITION DATA

A. KIND OF POSITION APPLIED FOR

BA

&. WEAT IS THE LOWEST ANNUAL ENTRANCE SALARY YOU WILL ACCEPT? _ HA

(You Will Not Be Considered For Any Position With A Lower Entrance Salary.)

CIP. YOU ARE WILLING TO TRAVEL, SPECIFY: OCCASIONALLY -

Tos and elda

PREQUENTLY

- CONSTANTLY -

No

D. CHECK IF YOU WILL ACCEPT APPOINTMENT, IF OFFERED: IN WASHINGTON, D. C. - Jea

: ANYWHERE IN THE UNITED STATES - -

Yes, OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES - 108

E. IF YOU WILL ACCEPT APPOINTMENT IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS ONLY, SPECIFY LOCATIONS:

Preference for latin America und Spain

SEC. 13. EDUCATION

ELEMENTARY SCHOOL -

Elsrood

DATES ATTENDED -

2926-1934

ADDRESS THIS

DaKalb, Dlinols, USA

(бикса)

(Country)

Ies

_ GRADUATE? -

HIGH SCHOOL -

DeKalb Township

ADDRESS 9)

Dekalb, 11150LB

(Stale)

USA

(Country)

DATES ATTENDED ...

1935-1939

GRADUATE? - {09

COLLEGE - UniversIty al Costa Rica

Economics

ADDRESS Tact:

San dosa, Costa PeR

10

US: MAJOR AND SPECIALTY - ECOngLe TheOT YEARS COMPLETED POUX

1949-1953

DATES ATTENDED -

_ DEGREE -

Bot got

COLLEGE -

13 MAJOR AND SPECIALTY.

Dast of Sas Cardos ADDRESS T00T

Contemala City, Costemala

Economios

(Borde)

(Cocatin)

studies

_ YEARS COMPLETED -

I? DATES ATTENDED

1936 Jen-Hay 1

io

Intarruprad.

CHER UXDERORADTATE doUd bare 00s year, 1954-55, Tabasa, Orda

Algebra, Blodonographle Statistica, Accounting I, Thoary of Occupation

Maployzent) and tabar untour and coops.

---

## Page 43

SPC. 14. ACTIVE U. S. OR FOREIGN MILITARY SERVICE

. 4.

(Counts)

(Service)

(Bisk)

SEDANSIO,

Hoorabled

REMARKS: -

SELECTIVE SERVICE BOARD NUMBER - Hong ADDRESS

IP DEFERRED GIVE REASON -

INDICATE MEMBERSHIP IN MILITARY RESERVE ORGANIZATIONS

SEC. 15. CHRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT FOR PAST 15 YEARS. ACCOUNT

FOR ALL PERIODS. INCLUDE CASUAL EMPLOYMENT. INCLUDE ALSO PERIODS

OF UNEMPLOYMENT. GIVE ADDRESSES AND STATE WHAT YOU DID DURING

PERIODS OF UNEMPLOYMENT. LIST LAST POSITION FIRST. (List all civilian em-

plos ment bj a foreign government, regardless of dates.)

CLASSIFICATION GRADE

FROM - 1940

- TO - 1919

- (IF IN FEDERAL SERVICE) -

EMPLOYING ZIRM OR AGENCY -

USt, J918

ADDRESS -

I8t and Numb

(at)

KIND OF BUSINESS -

HA

(Baxte)

- NAME OF SUPERVISOR

(Country

- RE

"TITLE OF JOB

-BAS

YOUR DUTIES Intelligenco MCD lecloto I1-collectio0, ovaluatlou, Interpro

tetlos. sod.distrlbut107-0f-1nf0rat100.of-eneuy.and.comtertate?tgsace

activities and the silerarilag of military Infonat1o0.:

REASONS FOR LEAVING _ SIS and termination. al sh. II:

CLASSIFICATION GRADE

(IF IN FEDERAL SERVICE) -

+2176770777-2-=

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY _ Unitod States faxal Ala StetJes

ADDRESS -

Cora falo, Canelizone

KIND OF BUSINESS Supply Station NAME OF SUPERVISOR - Dakeo

TITLE OF JOB Londinges Iabor_ SALART 8 2288 PER - day

TOU8 DuTIes-londisgand mnlondisg-mtal-aappty-ch1pa-u1th-settto-bebor

taleingedotent.etocks.la.eras-bandting.onl1ag0-aba/cr.destrustton

REASONS POR LEAVING SoneRod, to-50 0a11ot 1s the EAT

---

## Page 44

(8)

CLASSIFICATION GRADE

FROM A812 18p 19460. Apro 182 1949(IF IN FEDERAL SERVICE) - 5/SEt

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY _ USAP

ADDRESS _

Albrook Fleld, Canal Zope

(se sod Nember)

.(Cit)

(Bate)

(Country)

RIND OP BUSINESS.

__ NAME OF SUPERVISOR -

TITLE OF JOB_ IntellIpenco ECO SALARY - BiA PER_

- HA

TOUR DUTIES - Chlef of Section, Falltion) Amlyß1ß, Cartobenn AlT.

Cocando Organire and mintain flles, study and preparo, timoly

political analysis of Carlbbern and South American republics.

REASONS FOR LEAVING

TS and to stady Political Economy at the valverste

рвом Арго 18, 1919 т0

Маг. 1953

RICCLASSIFICATION SERVIC

_ (IF IN FEDERAL SERVICE) -

RA

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY -

Free-lance photography and student.

ADDRESS -

San Jose, Costa Rica

'(Se and Numbes)

(Stete)

KIND OF BUSINESS part-time

__ NAME OF SUPERVISOR -

(Country)

Solf-employed

Photo.

"TITLE OF JOB

Dabe

SALARY $ VarLable

- PER

YOUR DUTIES

250

REASONS FOR LEAVING :

Eployed to collaning. agency.no

CLASSIFICATION GRADE

Herch 1953 TO _ Irre 1953.

_ (IF IN FEDERAL SERVICE)

Ministry Agriculture,

ADDRESS"-

sen Joa0, Costa Rica

(82; and Number)

(City)

(Scaca)

Caracts)

TITLE OF JOB -

-SALARY& PATE ELSOPER

271:

YOUR DUTIES Dealez and direct & photographio labaretoia for tacholoel

$707:

WOrt 1s 8001087, both for tbo Corta Pleas Garernment and tha Ialt9isa1152

al Conta ploni

300 1. V REASONS PORLEAVING Tendation ef ork etemporary position

---

## Page 45

14-00000

SEC. 16 HAVE YOU EVEP BEEN DISCHARGED OR ASKED TO RESIGN FROM ANY POSI-

TION? HAVE YOU LEFT A POSITION UNDER CIRCUMS'CANCES WHICH YOU

DESIRE TO EXPLAIN? GIVE DETAILS:

SBC.

17. GENERAL QUALIFICATIONS

A FOREIGN LANGUAGES (STATE. DEGREE OR PROFICIENCY: AS. "SLIGET," "PAIR" OR

"FLUENT™

LASGUAGE BOglin SPEE - Pasat READ - nest WEITE - Fuest

LAYGUAGE -

-Span18) SPEAK -Frest - READ _ Aluent TBITE - FaIr

LAGUAGE -

_ SPEAK ——

-__- READ _ WRITE

BLIST ALL SPORTS AND HOBBIES WHICH INTEREST YOU: INDICATE DEGREE OF PROFI-

CIENCY IN EACH:

-Probing, freat tates nod-ves, Satlborting Hunting, Arenary, Football

In IS god IStF-Pruely Rs end-ISAff-High-Juspy-broad jusp.and Disessf

#(Sonal recard 1a Oratemala 1954 10 Discuse Platol (Aspert)e Chess.

Jungle lare.

Photogranhy-Irselance and camercial.

CHATE YOU ANY QUALIFICATIONS, AS A RESULT OF TRAINING OR EXPERIENCE, WHICH

AUGHT FIT YOU FOR A PARTICULAR POSITION?

Partletter pooltien, so. In geseral, vy study and experience has been..

alroat entirely in latin A8er1o3n Areas, 1n their mniversities and

governato Is Military smadca, I Mould saturally qualISy fOr A position

1s politicaleconania lateillesce. In ciTil service, this met be corent

SUCH AS OPERATION OF SHORI-HAVE RADIO, MULITLITE, COMPIOMETER, KEY PUNCH,

TURRET LATHE, SCIENTIFIC OR PROFESSIONAL DEVICES:

our de enaijala la latis liarican arors.

Sosa experience is sadlar neod and rooelte 13-20 vp

Morso Intornitionil,

-Simples 350 and

alout all Itma ratos. Pooto reproduction equipment, lacluding Inboratory

aleroptorogra por.

APPROXIMATE NUMBER OF WORDS. PER MINUTE IN TYPING - AR SHOETHAND _ EA

---

## Page 46

14-00000

(10)

E. ARE YOU NOW OR HATE YOU HVER BEEN A LICENSED OR CERTIFIED MEMBER OF ANY

TRADE OR PROFESSIOS, SUCH AS PILUT, ELECTRICIAN, PADIO OPERATOR, TEACHER,

MAWYEK, CPA, ETC.

IF YES, INDICATE KIND OF LICENSE AND STATE

FIRST LIC OR CERTIFICATE (YR)....

# LATEST LIC OR CERTIFICATE (YR).

F. GIVE ANY SPECIAL QUALIFICATIUNG NOT COVERED • ELSEWHERE IN YOUR APPLICATION

SUCH AS:

(1) YOU& MORE IMPORTANT PURIICATIONS (DO NOT SUBMIT COPIES UNLESS REQUESTED)

(2) YOUR PATENTS OR AYENTIONS

(8) PUBLIC SPEAKING AND PUBIC RELATIONS EXPERIENCE

(4) HONORS AND FELLOWSHIPS HECEIVED

(1) 121 uritres vort la political-oconoy 188 caBalfled.

(2) Hone

(3) Bose

(1) Hons

G. HAVE YOU A PHYSICAL HANDICAY, DISEASE, OR OTHER DISABILITY WHICH SHOULD BE

CONSIDERED IN ASSIGNING YOU TU WORK! IF ANSWER I3 "YES," EXPLAIN:

Boas

111T41 101:128

ruine

H. DO YOU RECEIVE AN AISUITY WHOM THE UNITED STATES OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

GOVERNHENT UNDER ASY RETIBEMENT ACT OR ANY PENSION OR OTHER COMPENSATION

¡JOB MILITARY OR NAVAL SERVILE! IF ANSWER IS "YES," GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS:

REC I CH

1313

BEC® JE HUNG DOS BAES 2207 D/844

ALES QUCRAL7A0KZ 11180-809

7068

---

## Page 47

4-00000

SEC. 18. GIVE FIVE CHARACIER REFERENCES- IN THE U. S.-WHO KNOW YOU INTI-

MATELY- (Give residence and business addresses where possible)

Street ood Number

City

Slato

W/0 Francis 11111e5y

tiriett Patterson Ab, D

Dayton,.

- do

BUS, ADD. 584 decosa Rdo,

Daytor

chie

RES. ADD.-

¡Howard Met Goras

Donald Fago

Colo Go J. Stattler

BUS ADD Prospect at Little lack Rdas Boss 225.

RES. ADD.

Centerport, LI, II. I.

— BUS ADD: 525 3. Edison

1I1g01a

RES ADD. -

Fentagon Bldgo

BUS ADD. 2550 Com.

RES. ADD.

Ävee, Washington &a Da G.

Basard A, Marollus

Б.

BUS. ADD 3333 Toronto Ste, Palla Churche Ve.

RES. ADD.-

SEC.

19. NAMES OF FIVE PERSONS WHO KNOT YOU SOCIALLY IN THE UNITED STATES

NOT REFERENCES, RELATIVES, SUPERVISORS, OR EMPLOYERS (Give residence

and business addresses there possible.)

Street and Number

City

Slato

Wilford do Pylo

BUS ADD 12I19 S. Hastings Dece horall, Car.

RES. ADD..

Tom Orkland

2 i.

BUS ADD. -

Hoperall Junctilos, sow Xert

RES. ADD.

Malo Eduards

BUS ADD.

RES ADD.

Box 63

Kingaton...

Soneph Parkorich

BUS ADD. 532 Prere Ste

RES. ADD.

Dekalb

17210018

BUS. ADD. RID TO. 3

RES. ADD. -

Staunton

SEC. 20. GIVE THREE NEIGHBORS AT YOUR LAST NORAL RESIDENCE IN THE U.S.-

: (Give residence and business addresses where possible).

Seneat codd Necabor

City

Stato

Helen Bachamas

BES ADD: 3008 ALl Sta, I, Washington Ia Dal.

RES. ADD.

hole Para

BUS ADD 3010 724 Star M, Mashington II, DoG.

BES ADD. -

abers sot soonllad.

BUS ADD.

RES ADD.

3ва

81. FINANCIAL BACKGROUND

A ARE YOU ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON TOUR SALARY? L09 _ IP NOT, STATE SOURCES

OF OTHER INCOME

(22) +

---

## Page 48

14-00000

(12)

C. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN IN, OR PETITIONED FOR, BANKRUPTCY?

GIVE PARTICULARS, INCLUDING COURT: -

D. GIVE THREE CREDIT REFEREYCES- IN THE U.S.

All credit refAtences aro

L NAME

_ CareLEn sinco I have sot rituad is the Is staco 1940a

(Se not Yumber)

2. NAME

BA

ADDRESS

(Se Rod Namber)

(Cies)

& NAME

ADDRESS

(St abd Sumber)

(CHS)

(Stale)

(Beare)

(SLate)

Sec.

22, RESIDENCES FOR THE PAST 15 YEARS

FROM -*

вот: 2955 то

Present

Calle 5 Ro. 655 Verado

Fabers, Cabe

T5L and herber).

FROM

APT• 1925 To

Нот. 1955

Callo Il Ic. 1013 Vedado Fabasa, Caba

(Gry)

FROM - -

For. 194т0 -

Apro 1955

Callo 16, Fo. 511 Vodado Habara, Cuba

(se nod ascaber)

(Consery)

FROM ..

A08. 195k 10 _

Nor. 1954

0612 3, Ho- 61, Himms, Habana, Cuba

(Coraners)

FROM -

Mey 1954 10 -

Aug. 195k

San Juan Tibar, San JoBo, Costa Rice

(SL and araber)

(scare).

(Comers)

FROM _

Гал. 1934. то-

May 195k

7ta Ave. E. 9-04, Jocotanango, Onto City.

i (Be and sember)

-(sire).

(Connery).

FROM

Jal, 1952

.. тО -.

Jes. 195k ..

5008 7th Sto I, Hachington 11, 2. Co

(SL and nember)..

(Sule)

(Country)

TRON 10 2910 del 953 a To Sac So Cata Pica

SEC.

23. RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES

AFROST ANg 40 TO HOU LI

60th Prold Art e

Deo da1

Mar 44,

Ceral Lone, Pinam

FROM -

(CORALTY)

FROM --

Nor le TO Juno 45

our Chins there.

JSAy

(Purpose)

(Counts)

F3%,"

FRỌM

: Doo 45.

.. тО - Арт 42

Abroak Prelie Ca coat

(Parpoos

ISA?

((ro anertion)

stadent to

FROSS Apr 19 TO - T017-53.

-Ses Jose Costa 31c2

Country

SBC.

24. CLUBS, SOCIETIES, AND OTHER OPGANIZATION$

LIST NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF ALL CLUBS, SOCIETIES, PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES, EMS

PLOYEE GROUPS, ORGANIZATIONS OF ANY EIND (INCLUDE MEMBERSHIP IN, OR SUPPORT

OF, ANY ORGANIZATION HAVING HEADQUARTERS OR BRANCH IN A FOREIGN COUNTRY) TO

WHICH YOU BELONG OR HAVE BELONGED:

Club Valveraltarlo, AY 3re, Irans, Fabers, Gabe

(Nare Rod Chapter).

(Se and Number)

(State)

(Corsetsy)

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP: -

195l.55 acadeado goes

meera artico de tire

"DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

• 1504109

(Contry)

assary 1956

ошто

(82 and Nuisbes)

(0t))

=66°

..t:

ams and Coapter)

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

---

## Page 49

14-00000

+0153038787

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

sat to

Nam ind Chapter

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

(Be asd Namber)

(Name nila bapter) i

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP: -

•(BL and Number)

(Nailed Chapter)

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

(Be and Nasaber)

(CO)

(City)

(0U)

(Brace)

(Seata)

1(86086)

(grate)

¡Counts)

(Country)

SBC. 25. MISCELLANEOUS

A. DO YOU ADVOCATE OR HAVE YOU EVER ADVOCATED; OR ARE YOU NOT. OR EAVE YOU

EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF, OR HAVE YOU SUPPORTED, ANY POLITICAL PARTY OR ORGANI-

ZATION WHICH ADVOCATES: THE OVERTHROW OP OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FURM OF GOV-

ERNMENT IN THE UNITED STATES?.

IF MYES," EXPLAIN:

HA

155F14

E DO YOU USE, OR HAVE YOU USED, INTOXICANTS? -

IF 8O, TO WHAT

EXTENT!

CHAVE YOU EVER BEEROR AS ESPECTED OR CONVICTED FOR ANY VIOLATION OP

LAW OTHER THAN A MINOR TRAFFIC VIOLATION?. IF SO, STATE NAME OF COURT, CITY,

STATE, COUNTRY, NATURE OF OFFENSE AND DISPOSITION OF CASE:

D. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN COURT-MARTIALED WHILE A MEMBER. OF THE ARMED FORCES?

IP ANSWER IS "YES," GIVE DETAILS BELOW::

pace se 112ea0e 10 isa 11

TILLIST BELOW THE NAMES OF GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS, AGENCIES OR OFFICES TO

WHICH YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT SINCE 1940:

'......

(18)

---

## Page 50

(14)

P. IF, TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE, ANY OF THE ABOVE HAS CONDUCTED AN INVESTIGATION OF

YOU, INDICATE BELOW THE NAME OF THAT AGENCY AND THE APPCOXINATE DATE OF

THE INVESTIGATION:

Inveatlgat100 (loyalty check for security) 1a USAP 1960

Again for USAP In 1940.

SEC. 26. PERSON TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMERGENCY:

Mrs. Argentina Croster

NAME...

Callo 5 to 655 Vodado,

ADDRESS

Tie and Number)

RELATIONSHIP

Habana,. Oube

--(CH)

"(State)

SEC.

Wife

"Contry'

27. YOU ARE INFORMED THAT THE CORRECTNESS OF ALL STATEMENTS MADE

HEREIN WILL BE INVESTIGATED.

ARE THERE ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE NOT MENTIONED ABOVE WRICH

MAY BE DISCOVERED IN SUBSEQUENT INVESTIGATION, WHETHER YOU WERE DIRECTLY

INVOLVED OR NOT, WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE EXPLANATION? IF SO, DESCRIBE. IF NOT;

ANSWER "NO."

7:

500.

7?1O

SEC.

23. I CERTIFY TRAT THE FOREGOING ANSIVERS ARE TRUE AND CORRECT TO THE

BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF, AND I AGREE THAT ANY MISSTATEMENT

OR OMISSION AS TO A MATERIAL FACT WILL CONSTITUTE GROUNDS FOR IM-

MNDIATE DISMISSAL OR REJECTION OF MY APPLICATION.

I7=7

SIGNED AT.

labana, Doba

26, Jaty 1950

DATE.

ROSS IN CROZIER

•of Applicants

USE THE FOLLOWING PAGES FOR EXTRA DETAILS: NUMBER ACCORDING TO THE NUM®

BER OF THE QUESTION TO WHICH THEY RELATE.

SIGN. YOUR NAJE AT THE END OF

THE ADDED MATERIAL IF ADDITIONAL SPACE IS REQUIRED USE EXTRA PAGES THE

SAME SIZE AS THESE AND SIGN EACH SUCH PAGE.

---

## Page 51

14-00000

820492715(00012)

iron somo 53 to Dec. 53

Student.

ReaBODs for LeavIngs Terilnation of courto.

_ lashlagtos, Do C.

Eras Jan 54, to Hay 54.

Stadent.

Talverosty of San Carlos, Guatemala CIty, Deet.

Heasons fos leavings palliloal disturbancas.

iron Jal 54 to present.

Student.

Talvesalty ol Habans, Saboal al Econodo Solences.

E301lon 23 (Cont)

ivan dan 54 to Hay Stoo

cuaterale Clty, Ostela.

Pros July 54, to presentia. Fiabans, Caba

Student

Stadent.

---

## Page 52

14-00000

SECRET

Corost POLaRRE RAgUASS fOr AFEST G. VAIVADA

PERSONE AXFILODAROTI

Raforaneo 18 sede tu juur annaraatus datod l dececher ISS6

FORESTIOS C95OSE ANELAIRE FOR METALE E. VAIVADA.

the CI Etasf appruros the tralaint ragueat subjoat to tis

proparad by CI, ITO unda dato ul 2) voceader 1j56.

CHIOS, CUURLOS IRLOLLIÇERSE BEEFS

Abtacharats

• PROPORA COTATE SALAIRE DI ATTIVI G. VAIVAN

Matribution:

0515-91- 244598530

- D/Prataiay

• C/CI

CI/BAA

- CZ/DA

SECRET

---

## Page 53

14-00000

Date: 13 December 1956

CI/RIA

CI/OPS

SUBJubi's

Request for Covert Training

Project: AMFRODARCE (PI)

Pseudonyn: Arthur G. VAIVADA

lo itvached ara soburavo durais slecte dor dach Ci divizion

listed above.

Any co mento you jay ara arter morionale tha atched

request for truining, wich vas rui ted iy _W/III/Cuba should

be rucordad on de cotient shoct criced.

ion you have indicated tuse comnts en the shoct proridad,

send thris by iland

to die neat paites on the routing drset.

loir corichte will ba craccliuatu inte a norordon to tne

üivision over tio simonde in to chioi, vi Stail.

LES 1310

raniun will be prepirad t ii..

en this coneslicatodns tarardur

orits or contracts me li jur coensg üi/li vili so inform you.

il you desi that this nomesi choula recalva fariar cocriin-

ation within CI saut, simiy aid tue person'e nene or ciniol ta te

rouling choet au jurera, bi hid. dosiin, cuicido of Ci jiait can

oly b3 nade by cI/la

chies, CI/li

Attacimentss

---

## Page 54

14-00000

221

C//RIA

ROs AMPHODARCE/ Arthur Go VAIVADA

CI Staff notes that training for VAIVADA 18 scheduled to commenco on

the sano date in the same city as the training scheduled for

This situation seems inherently

dangerous and unwarranted by the circumstances as known to CI Staff.

Pending further justification CI Staff cannot concur in the tratning.ag

requested, but would of course concur in the training for VAlVADA 18 the

locale vers shifted to another city sach as New York.

(This 18 basically an operational

or an operational security matter.

CI/R&A/TRB therefore urges that CI/O*S/WH and CI/OA discuss the problem

with the desk, and resolve it if possible. CI/R&A/TRB will of course

defer to CI/OPS AND CI/OA in this natter.)

D: 5: 14 De. 56

SaBenter

---

## Page 55

14-00000

10..01,5:

41/085

cI/ors/ii does not concur with the CI/Rid A recommendations as set forth for

the following reasons:

1.

The security compromise would only sten from the two bRiC officers

Identifyirz the VilVADi affiliation and trainina on tetal! of this igency.

Inds aprears extremely rerote as the desk advised there is no indication

that the EliC officers know VAlVidi either is name or sight.

2..

shile VIVADA is being trained, his wife will be attendirz citizen

• ship classes in D.C. preparing for her citizenship examination before

returning to Cuba.

Consequently, It would be a financial drain for TAlViDA

to stay in New York City and his wife in D.û.

In addition, certain per diem

costs would be incurred by the Case. Officer traveling to lew fork City to..

monitor sore of the OTR training.

3. The desk will instruct OIR of this joint training aspect and as

a precautionary measure, request that training sites, hours, etc. de not

overlap.

DiD: 11 dec416

---

## Page 56

14-011100

CREET:

AN: OPERATiONAL APPRONAL WAS ISSUEO ECR

ARTHUR E. VAILADA ON 18JULY-I9443 A NEW

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL WAS ISSUED ON 22 JULy195%

CILOA CONCURS iN TIrE APPROVAL OR THE

WADiusion tRAINiNE REQUEST DATEs 4-DEQ-1956

=: 27 DEC. -56

SEC:

---

## Page 57

14-00000

20 December 1930

TO

PROMI

• C/C1/03

c/c1/ic0

UBJECTS & Carmento and RADODErdalIEDA on Proposed Covert fraisi!

LATtIN" GO VAIVAD

BZFIRENCES

CovErt PraSaLag Request for Arthar Q. VAlVADA OS

& Deceaber 1950

Lo Arthar G. VATTADA bas vorted prinodpally, and soccessially 00.

on CP peristratios operazions since ploysent by the Agency. dia cun

rest vork Istolves: the bandliag of a let of ll pesetration agento ans

Im cozure in genaral vits the profosted trainlig sebedaled

for mateot bait reocenda that consterablo aphase preolfloally be

of po rat of on tetra per to plea and praction:

2.

Is additlos, subject should also be given sateriale and brlaf-

Lage os Commutes in bla arca of operations.

It 18 suggested that be

bo gives the folloving materials to Belt and discuss turing to shaso

of training recamended aboves "Dea speritional Pattern of International

Cockanion in Latin Anaries° (e paper prepared by (I/ICD) and "The Cous

munist Movement of Cube" la paper prepared by Kles

AGeTZALS NE

i Do borroved esther fros CI/ID/u8

or tros ta/III/

aba (Ebland)

30

Should Of contesplate precesting 19 AnY Q01 any of the u

metration case studies contained 1a 1HB 52-865-4 (The CP Pesotratio

120 Doseaber 1950

1 - Curano

1 - IDDH

is it it

SECRET

---

## Page 58

14-00000

& Docember 1956

MEHORANDUA FORs Directos of traintag

ASTERITION

:1 1as1atart Chies for CoTert Iralning, OS/TE

FRON

& Chief, Hestora Banisphero Division

8. Roguest for Covert Tralding

Projosts AMPHODARCH (PI)

•Pseudonyas Arthur G. PATTADA

Io Reguost Initiated by HY/III/Cube

2. Profeat Aporoval - Agent Clerance

D. Project AYPHODARCH last approved for renancal on 5 Outo-

bes 1956.

bo P/A PATTADA has oparational claaranco datod 19 July 1949.

3. Agent Status

Contract (coateuplato chango to stall status la nass futuro).

40 Areat Rationality

Unitod States oitizen (by birth).

Operations Ortions

jamas B. Maland, knorn to stadent by tres sona. Ortion.

1022 Barton Ball, Extesadon 2056.

alteraata Operations Offler

agh 0. Machalay, known to stadent by tron sesa, O1f10i

021 Barton Ball; Brtenion 2051

Training Date

staining to cousience on lls sanany fes perlod of approdrataly

sis rooke.

SECRET

---

## Page 59

14-00000

62b0L)

-2=

To Biographlo Information

subjoot was bora in de Kalb, Illinois, on 20 runs 1922..

recolved his primary and high sohool education In Do Kalb and astored

the U.S.: Army in 1940, later transferring: to tho U.S. Air Parço. Bo

servod so an operations and intelligence specialist, first in tho

China-Burma theatre and lator in Panaza.. Ho was discharged tron the

serVICo 1n 1945 w1th the grado of Technical Sergeant. Altor bla dis

charge ho vorked for e brios period as a laboratory rechniotan 1s tho

Storling (Ill1no1s) S1l1ca-Gal corporation and tren returned. to the

Panana Canal Zone to marTy Argentina CORDERO O., a COsta Rican E151,.

In Docember 1945. For about lour months ho varbad as a stevadore, and

labor. Paranan.in

thA Canal Zune. In Asll 1946 ba rienllited in the

Ar Porco 11 the Canal Lone and was dischargod three jours lator, 1a

1949.

Lata 1n 1948 he had been recruited by the Aganoy, and on

I Juno 1949 he bacame a CIA contract agent.

It vas originally plarned

that he be used in Parans; bat he vas assigued Instead to toe SUlANOID

Projoct 1n Costa Rina.

While tharin. ha ancoessfully handled

In 1953 he bes sent to

notaquarters for training, and in 1954 be has assigned to pestsaEas

for a briof perlod.. In July 1954 he sigood a ney contract 1a lashing

ton whereby he became the new prinoipal agent of projoct AlPaDiaCE.

Ho bas been under student cover and has worked for his bid. dogree

at the University of Habians.

Subjoot is happily sarrled and is the father of tho children.

do 1o Must 1n Spanish and 1s voll qualified to contime kork in bis

rea or operations as show by his past performance. He 18 also ves

arsatile and bas a uide range of outside interests, Includiag sporta

photograpiry, outdoor 1119, and many othora.

B. Provous Iratning.

VYADA previously received covert training at saadquarte

FiDg 2h0 porlod 5 Ostober through 25 Hovenber 1953, under the trat

•Ing allas of "VICKS. " The tralming was at a coupresensive satura..

9. Project Objective - ree of Assigument

Objootino of PrOjoct AMPHODARCE 18 tO provido comerazo of

Consenilot, leftist, revolutionary and otbor political activities at

the Undvoraity of Habana, and the atident-youth afralos 19 goneral

• 1n Cuba.

SEMET

---

## Page 60

14-00000

10. Cover - Operational Duties

VAIVADA's present cover, consists of being a graduato studont

at the Undersity of Habana. Efforto are currently undersay to obtain

a new cover as representative in Habana of a well-known U.S. polling

agency.

Subjoct's duties ara thoso of a P/A handling a rather largo

not of aub-agent informants in Cuban University-youth öiroles. with

asphale on Consunist and revolutionary matters. He roporte dirootly

to the Habana Station.

21. Training Cover

Consultation in connection with proposed non polling cover

(see above) doubined iith vacation and aoquisition of citizenship

for uIte (vould explain tina spent in iashington).

12.

Avallab1l1ty for Training

Student will be available for training on a full-timo basia.

23. Spec1al Probleus

No partioular problems anticiparod.

llo. Subjects to bo Covered

Refrestor course in Clandestine intelligence Operations.

Technical freining Requirements

Only those falling within prescribod Operations Course, 1f. any.

16.

Vialts to Overt CIA Installations

Pons, past of prosent.

•"17. Special Attributes to be Bralustod

outorand mehral sultability only. Subjoct's persortenon has bees

caios; Narrata Ca topher DAriedon

sandor start Frelning 081109F

---

## Page 61

14-00000

SECRET

• Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FI/SIC/SPB

DATE: 15 OCT 1954

FROM :

Chief, Special Security Division

БОВуВСТ:

C-25507

#112569

I. Reference is made to your request dated 21 July 1954

for a reconnendation as to whether an Operational Clearance

should be granted to pernit the Subject's use as an Agent in

Costa Rica under unindicated cover.

2.

The attached information is furnished as an aid in

determining whether or not the Subject should be used in the

requested capacity.

3. In view of the fact that Subject has resided outside

the United States since, at least, 1945 no field irvestigation

was scheduled in this case.

4.

This memorandun pertains only to this proposed

assignment.

It is requested that this office be inforned of

your decision in this case. The attached material should be

returned to the writer in a sealed envelope narked "Eyes Only" E

when it has served its purpose.

FOR THE DIRECIOR OF SECURITY:

Attachment:

Apert Klei

CD dtd 28 September 195k

Tads date ta perpenty ol the Socusty OFfro aad

abould bo retussad rohos il has sarrad is pur

It OxisTOSCO CI COLIONLE MUST DOR: ba

SECRET

---

## Page 62

14-00000

SECRET

15 OCT 1958

F/SIC/SPB

Odes, Speatal Security Dit1a10n

c25507

8222569

Lo ialarence 18 sade to your request dated 21 July 1951

for a recommendation as to shother an Operational Clearanc

choald be granted to perilt the Subject's use as an Agent in

Costa plas under unindiasted cover.

The attached Informtion is furnishod as an aid in

dotessining whether os: not the Subjoot should be used in the

raguested capaotty.

3. In vlou of the fact that Subjeot has reaided outoldo

tha Podted States alice, at least, 1945 no Mold Investigation

sas scheduled in this case.

tha This senorandua pertains only to this proposed

assagment.

It 1s requested that this office be informed of

Jour decision in this case.

returned to the triter in a sealod anvelope marked "Dyes. Only"

soon 16 has served 1ts purpose.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITES

Robert Ile Guminghes

Attachments

H5 did 28 September 1951,

261-

SECRET

---

## Page 63

14-00000

SE SECRET

COVERT NAME CHECK REPORT

00C

DATE: 28 September 1954

SUBJECT: 8. Ju. Do 212569 06

In accordance with your request, a covert name check

was conducted on Subject with results as indicated below:

AGENCY

RETURN

DATE

Did

STATE

(less Passport)

- 8/28

_177

8/24

FBI

8/27

HCUA

OSI

PASSPORT

I&N

aparty el too Sacruity Ollon en

stured when ll her marred the pus

existaDos o contant mum Do ba

except to ClA Salt Otterra disselly

SSEGRET T

50, 201

---

## Page 64

14-00000

SECRET

PASSPORI FILE CHECK

DATE CHECKED

21 Senteriter 1051

INITIALS AND CAST MUMBE:

% $12:60

DATE AND PLACE OF PIRTH :

Photostatic cooy ci cirt: certificate evears. in the file

PASSPORTS RECEIVE

DATE ISSUED

2% Septerber 1945

714,39,4

COUNTRISS

CIon, Panana

PURPUSE OF

TRAVEL

Persoral Fusiress

POSITION AND

ORGANIZATICN

Student

Asended 1º Loventer 15!6 to shon occucation as S/Sgt. United States Air Porce ir Ferara.:

at San Juan Fibes, Costa Tica or 3 l'arch 1016 where he wes for tre purrose of study under

the GI 5111 of Pights.

l4 Augest 1950

San Jose, Costa Fica

F1E0FS11O

(passport ircluded sor, Foss A.

Student

i, Lorr. Costa Fica I. Septenker 49

Anenced the abore passport l Cotoner 1911 at San Jose to Irclude niror child Lilliar CAFEDAD,

boIr. Costa ice 21, Jure 1:51.

Pereved the above passport at San Jose, Costa Iica 17 August 1053.

ADITIONADONNORGOTOLE:

2 July 1954

Sen Jose, Costa Fica

Leaving for trited

Stuient

FOaFS11099

States for visit

ADDITICTAL [TORTATICT, Address: (1945) 612 Hest 7th Street, Sterliz Illirois.

SPOUSS: Married 17 December 1C45 to Argerting CODIED at Cristobal, CZ, Who was born or

15 March 1919, who is not ar anerican citizen.

PA TA TS:

Lester Ferl

boro Palestire, Ilicois 15 larch ICC0 ard Slizateth Loraine

NeXIST, bore La lolllo, Illircis, bott of vlon currerti, reside at Fampico, Illirois.

subject's file irdicated tbet he resided in Dekalb, Illois fros birth until 1940. Fros

1945 to 1:49. Le resided 11 Parasa, fros 1940 to date he bei resided in Costa :1ca.

(1945) Pose PEEFOVIC5, not relaied, 1322 Pleasart Street, Dekalb, Illirois.

SECRET

---

## Page 65

14-00000

Hered:

SECRET

(taos Pillad las

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

No. 6-25507

TO: Chies, VE

Operational Clearence is granted por the use of antine Go VAIViDA

- as follons:.

As requested in memorandum dated _ 19 July 1954

•=".

This clearance is for the specific use set forth abore, and is based upon a

appraisal of inforsation currently arsilable to this office.

It must be borne in

mind that this clearence is in no way to be construed as a guarantee of subject's

bons fides, but merely ieflects that derogatory information, if any, has bees

considered and evaluated for the instant purpose only.

Dato _

JUL 22 1954

FI/STC/SPB

1 MA8 1A

: 59-47 рек

SECRET

* 8360

---

## Page 66

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY INFDRMATICA

CLEARANCE REQUEST

DATE 27 Jasy 295k

this diate s

Chief,

pecial security Division, Is

FROM

:

Chief,

Star! C/SPB

SUBJECT:

NO. -20908 hew of

1. Character of Case:

2. CIA indices check required in advanco-

3. Project name:

AHP BODARON

- 508-10-3

4: Proposed country of assigament:

Costa Pica

5.

Contemplated type of contract of

employment agreement (see C.P.R. 14.1)

6.

Scope and nature of use or activity:

• Agazit

7. Subject's cover:

Bat citod.

8.: Present whereatouts and occupation of Sebjeet:

9. Suggestod guide of IBS investigation: U.S.- 00rt.:-

Other:

Crodit chacts.

Comercial

10. Special corerage desired in investigation:

11. Limitition, 11 any, on intestigation:

tot ested.

Bas eltad.

12. Subject anare of Agency interest.

13.

Subject aware of pending investigation

-Yes-No.

'14, Subject briefed on "eover" story to be used in intestigation-100--No?

I5. Probablo investigative contacts inforeed of "cover" story subjoet will ase:

Tes---No-. Il not, stato season.

of your action.

17

Cortification harlag been made by the chief of the intorostod Division tbat

operational files and documents contain so pertinent inforiation of an in-

restigative or security nature other thes that fariabed to Stalf C/§FB,

such information. forwarded to your offico.

18. Remarks:.

STC/SPB (bas) PR9920f been advisod 19 Groen Ilst inftlated

INITIALS

P00108.80-00

CRET

101

---

## Page 67

14-00000

SBORET

LirS T1

- 195k

HENORAYOUH PORA SIC/SPB

SUBUECI

ocR--

1/viD/Erasoh IIL, Portardiaz

Part II, F90, on_Artiase Ca Vatzada (oseidoayo)

REF BREICE

8 dvilo.

_-B/ HD/Eranct IIL, datod I

Nặt 195k

_oPorvarding Part I, FRR.

Ni merer d op po io co obtaioa ta tia, 6e, dated 19 dudy 3949.

C PRertod o o o Li, ra0, oa Letne ca Velzada

2a Oporational.....Security... Mlesrance le sequested 1n

order to employ Arthur la Valrada

→__as (Jodicaitos US,

18E0658368a9353 uitting es uassadangs fora and valus al ezalamantoy

FI osc sag and ascadoos trltten contract.)

To receive a salary of $5060.00 anmiall], plas allorances.

Io replace RIKON in project AMPHODARCH.

Gilets Quheyn

ofrt

s. fs pmoice

---

## Page 68

14-00000

SECRET

195 d

HEMDRAIDUM FORE STC/SPB

SUBJiM

8 OCR-

-B/ 90/Eranch_ III s Parvarding

Part I, PRA, On Rose la Grozter

1o Forwarded berealth 19 Part I, P9Q, on Ross 1. Grozdos

terrestod.

do l Groen list nane cieck (Form 51-125) bas bees

bo The Registry and WiD operational files bavo bean

checked and no infornation al imestigative value or security interest

was found on the subject.

co Local Field Iraces contain no derogatosy iniorsation.

STC/SPB OOR-

oat I, pil being a fled under tea it-

44 Jaly 195k

Lo Additional comments (15 815) 8

---

## Page 69

14-00000

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTICANAIRE

PART I - BIOGPAPHICAL INFOSMATION

Instristim:

unite roarily.

?.

Ansver all questions completely.

If question does

3.

not apply, write

"not applicable"

Attach blank pages if additional space is needed.

1. Full Nase.

Middle

2. Mase in natsve acript Ross L. Carrier

3. Name at birth (18 different from 1.) _ bestor Russ trüster

4. Allases, nicknenes, legal changes (State briefly time, reason and

place of use.) - Hot apptterble

TRS/PPQ/26

5.

Date of birth-20 Juso 1922h.. Place of birth -Dokalb, Illaoke.

6. Present citizenship, race if appropriate Bof by brth

T. Retionality at birth and any subsequent nationalities (If different

8. Present residence (Orner, tenant, sub-tenant.)-Ounor of house and bot.

at Collen do Iber, San Jose, Coote Ried,

9. Perranent address (1f different from 8.)

10. Present occupation (full title, salery etc.)-Hatrtoulatod-@o studont.or.

toonento seteroes it tattorotty of turte flee, thard your, wier o/s/ b1i1 Bless

planning to open suall studio:

11.

laturalization.of subject

close releiiies in the United States.

(Give date and name in which certificate granted.)-

22. Relatives, friends; correspondents in lalted States. (Explain re-

ofort-traneto 17117913, Frand

18-6-3-60

---

## Page 70

14-00000

jr. 2

TRS/PRQ/26

13. Father - full nese, occupation, present residence, year and place

of birth, retionallty at birth and subsequent nationalities.

Laster Barl Grodles, Trucklag baslnone, Storling Illinols, born 1900 1s

Palootino Ill1nolo, U/8/ o1t1 zen uità N0 subsequent natlonalitios.

14. Mother - seme infornation as 13.

BIlsebth LoTeno CTOdIOT (Helden naso, Mollbbon) houseutfo, Sterling

natlona11ty

bnlo, mt blrth uith so subeoquent

15. Wifo (or husband) - full namè, malden lase, date and place of birth,

date and place of merriage, rationality at birth and any subsequent

nationalitles, present residence, divorce, annulsent. (Give data

for all previous narsiages.)

Argontina do Crodlor (Argontina Cordero Celdoron) DorA 1918 at Sen J0s0

Costa Rlca, sartlod at Criotobel Canal Zono on 17 Deo 19458 Costa Rlcan

at birth with no subsequent natlonallty, prosently residos at Colina Tibao.

sas 80so, Costa Rlcay so provlous sarrlagor.

16. Children - full nanes, sex, jear and place of birth, nationallty

at birth end any subsequent rationalitles, present residence.

0ss ArnnitO GrOdOr

•Sietored & a U/s/ atiren vit 1t 294 t Sat o0el,)Fd

et Colloa do T1bas, San J080.

17. Brothers and sisters - Sase information as 16.

lorrla Idrla Grodor, Yalo,

1933 DeZelb, Il1., 8/s/, Sterling, 111.

88908 L. CrOIiori Melo, 1930 Halta, Il1. U/S/ Sonomhoro 1n CoreR with U/8/ lray.

raa LALY Crordos, Tenelo, 1924 Blgla, 111. U.B. Storling, Ill.

anebo Blaizo Croxlor, Peralo, 1929 Dekalb I1lo U/s/ storliaa, Illi

---

## Page 71

14-00000

TRS/PROL 26

18. Relatives in service of any governsent, names and positions held.

Ґатов ВатІ Стовах, Сотротав, U/S/ Атшу 1n Сотаа.

19. List all official identity papers held vich dates, numbers, place of issue

and duration of validity.

// or dared to St, l 6 49 19 2 1 800 Cool RICa

20.

Religion-

on degree practiced, membership in religions ordere

Cathollo, Roses, precticed oscartonally.

21. Present and past jolitical affiliations , Hot epplicablo.

22. Travel outside country of present residence - country, dates,

purpose, people and firms casted, 81th U/s/ say, departed US 1a Nor 1942

and cororod Panana, Puorto Rico, Lenador, Costa Plee,, then doperiod Us 1a

Me, -Hor 1944 and cotored Australla, India, Burea, China, Iraque, IrEs, Egypt.

at Coco Solo, than Dop 6/2/10 Ar11 1949 for enrollment at U of Gi, Saa 1000

Coote Ries.

23.

Education - school, location, course, degree, dates

Bradustod AraThor School it fire-polarts District School, Syersaro, Ill. 193

tradasted High school Deñall Illinals by virtho of recognitión of aroditio

attained thr uph 18 aducational vork and graduated actually la 1949.

Carrattly attanding University of Costa Ries, thiat your, Ioonade Seteresa.

24. Languages and dialects (Indicate proficiency as good, fair, poor.)

Language nellel Speak Road Read Good Understand Bood

Language Spental Speak _Boad Read Gesk: Understand codd

Language -

- Speak — Read _ Understand -

-3-

---

## Page 72

TRS /PROL 26

25.. Milltary service - deies, country, mit, rank, duty, where

services performed, decorations, when discharged, vay. Give

details 11 ever prisoner of vare U/S/ Army 1940 - 1941, Art111057

Privato, Horth Carolles, dischged for ontry la 115 Torcos: US AlS Forces.

1942 - 1945, Intolligenco Speciallot, Panema, Indie-Buras theator.

Dischge tormanation of Far. U8 AlT Forees, 1946-1949, Tochnloal Sorgeant,

Intolligenco Spociallot, Politioal analyals, dischge - osp tors of servico.

26.. Presert and past sembership in organizations (professional, social,

political, etc.)

Hono.

:27.. Spocial skille, abilities, hobbles (radio, photography, etc.)

Photography.

29. Financial status - earnings, bank deposits, securities, property

Conearation proa 0/s/ b121 os Rightas

Approx geradags from photograpay

$120.00

er of hour ad le: 130500.00

"Ho earrent beat deportte.

29. Explogaent hlstary - type of vork, salaty, dates, employaro, ad-

dresses, reasons far leaving. Include employuent by any govermment.

TRention 1939-40 = Stapllis nachino op. A50 mook - califorala

paatlas Corporation, Detalb, Ill. Laft 105 DerT100 nich Us arny.

Lagart 1940-15 - 18 Aruy and AS, Oporations and I talliganco Spoodallet -

Tochaloel Sergeant, 135 dollare month, deded asp tará os soívico. -

lagent 1945 - 00t' 45 - laboratory Technloden - Sterling S111es Gol Carp -

16o tookly - loft due to striko compliontione.

Joa 1946 - Aprt1 1946 - sjorodoro and Labor forenan - 13 HATy COCO soLos OE.

aPpTOX O5 dollars rookly - loft sor antranco US dir forcer.

#p511:1946-Ap512 1949-18 Air Forces, Albrook Ml, Band, C&. Tech Sorgeante

Intelligene Speedallat, dischgo due de exp tora of sorrito

d-.

---

## Page 73

14-00000

TRS /PRO/26

29. (Continued)

30.

Has subject done any writing? Give details Including titles of

books, articles, publishers, dates.

Hone.

37. List persons living at sane address, close associates, (individuals or

groups,) correspondents at home and abroad.

Argoatina do Croxlo5,

Corrospondentas

бта

sos Jeannio 8111100s

p/ast Frareds U1llleno

Ra 2ad AIT FOrco

Barkedalo A1T POCo Baso.

"1gaol Azulla

Pasame CIty, & do P.

32. List fiva character references.

Do GoLo C// STATIER, Pastington, D/o

/ogt. Tranada so M111908, Ha 2ad AP, Barkadalo ArB, Le

Kajor. Paul Ho Farrison, Howard Mold, C/8/

It. Col. F1111ea R. Forbes, Howard Told, C/Z/

No. Ediard Naralias, Fishlagton, D.C.

-5-

---

## Page 74

14-00000

33.

court record - court, date, arreste, charges, pinistents,

sentences, ecquittals, denazification, etc.

Hot ap: 110ab10.

34. Description (Use American standards of neasuresent, 1f pobsible.)

Ago_

Apparent ege_

leight

-B°.1

Eye в

Face - shape_

Complexion caddy

Sex_ Malo

General appearance

Prominent features

Other identifying features

Posture

Height

Teeth

Fair

Scars

Build

365

perloat

brom

Appondoctony:

PeriCOBo

vlons right 108.;

Slonder

35.

Other miscellanecus biographical data and cormente.

---

## Page 75

14-00000

SPERET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAI

• Part II - OPEPATIONAL, INTORMATTON

IRSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER:

2.

If Peasible, subject should fill in pare l of PRo in his oun nano.

Pars 11 01 PRO is classified, eust be fillied in by ine case officer and is nor lo

be shom to subject.

30

Meadouarters mill nol de able 10 provide an operational Clearance unless it receives

ansuers :0 all questions on page 1 of Part 8: (liens 1 10.12), and 10 all questions. of

Part 16 (18ems 36 to 58).

In energency these answers, keyed to lieus 1 to 12 by nunder, and with suntary of part

11, may se cabled i0 Headquarters,. fellowed prompily by pouch with complete data.

5..

Fully completed, PRO must be sent to Headquarters as soon as possible, suo copies ol

Part 1 (including copy in suoject's nandariting, il possible) and one copy of part. 11.

6. Dila acquired later must be sent to keadquarters in PRO formal on a continuing basis.

%. All pages of both parts mill dear ine PRO number, composed of (a) Station symbol

(D) FRO (c) number assigned consecutively dy the field siation: e.g. P6A/P90/20-:

36. Cryptony Arthur G. VAIVADA

37.

How, when and where was subject first contacted or developed:

Sabject was first recruited in Panana as HYDROPATHS!

in Novanber 1948

and transferred to Costa "Ica in approved HUMANOID project. Subsequently

was transferred to BIRADIAL project and PBSUCCESS.

38. Could subject be turned over quickly end in & secure manner to

someone else for handling?

Tes

Io vhom? Above record over the past

four years shows that subject hag

..easdly been turned over to

different projects and case officers.

39.

807 1000: 80-058

BBCRET

-7-

---

## Page 76

14-00000

SECRET

/PRO/

40. With what agencies and files has subject's name buen checked? When?

Rewult? What else has been done to verify biographical infornation

furnished by subfect?

Chocked upon recruitment in Panams in 1949.

Has subsequently been check upon employment in other projects.

41.

what control exists over subject at present? How can it be increased?

Subject 1s controlled through dependence on salary, loyalty because of

American heritage, past Arty and Agency service, and a desiro for a

career in Intelligence work.

42.

For vhat service does be think he is working? What does he think

becomes of his Information?

subject 1f cognizant of the identity of this organization.

43.

Explain fully subject's past of present connection with any

Intelligence service.

sabject previously in U.S. Ariy and Air Force Intelligence.

kh. That type of Information has subject furnished? What type 1o be

best qualified by education and experience to furnish? Give

oraluation of Information roceived.

sabject has furnished införnation receired fron sub-agents on

•Coummist. Party activities and Central Anerican revolutionary matters.

SECRET

B-

---

## Page 77

14-00000

4, 1050

SECRET

- PROL _

45. If subject's duties are to be other than Intelligence gathering,

esplain.

None.

46.. Has he been given special training as an agent? Explain.

1. & Aruy Intelle eber 19 ,d Agency covert tradeing fron

• October. through 25

47. How and from whom does he obtain information?

Previously worked a Principal Agent handling various sub-agents.

48. Is it proposed to pay subject a regular salary? If so, amount per

week, month, etc. Explain any other methods of paysent, such as

exchange commodities.

Subject is to receive $5060.00 annually, plus allowances.

kg. Have any promises or comnitments whatsoever (not covered elsevbere

In this form) been sade to subject?

Explain.

Ho.

50. Are subject's language abilities and other characteristics such that be

could pass es a native of a country or reglon otber than his on? Explain.

57. What 18 subject's social stending? Aristocracy, upper stddle class,

loves aiddle class, peasantry, etc.? Upper middle class.

SECRET

9-

---

## Page 78

14-00000

SECRET

PRO/

52. What are subject's personal habits? Liquor, druge, gambling, mistresses

or lovers?

Social drinker but very moderately. No gambling or ulstresses.

53.

Evaluation of subject's character, reliability, security.

• All noted excellent.

54. With what other foreign power would subject be nost likely to

collaborate because of his Ideology, obligation, etc.? Explata.

None.

55. What special abilitles, talents, or qualifications are possessed by

subject which would conceivably be of value for other operstions in

the future?

Subject can send and receive Morse code.

56. Attach samples of subject's signature and handwriting in all languages

kown to him, also a recent, dated photograph, and fingerprints.

irovionaly subalttod.

57: How was information in Part I obtained?

iron subject personally.

---

## Page 79

14-000000

SECRET

_/PROL

58. Other miscellaneous operational data and comments.

Excellent work done in previous projects should ably qualify subject icr

use in project APHODARCH.

ito.

Case officer

SECRET

---

## Page 80

14-00000

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

STC/ SPB

DATE: 19 July 1954

FROM :

Chief, WHD

SUBJBCT:

dequest for Operational Clearance for use of Arthur G.

VATTADA in Project ASHODARCH

1.

Reference is marie to Operational Clearance lic. C-25507, dated

28 April 1954; wherein the Subject was cleared for use in Project PBSUCCESS.

2. It is requested that Subject now be cleared for use in Project

AMPHODARCH.

3.

PR2, Parts I & II have been subnitted to your office, Green List

Check F0. 9467 was subnitted to S'D and this office was informed by phone on

16 July 2954 that no derogatory information on Subject was on record with sTD.

---

## Page 81

14-00000

SECRET.

DATE: 9 July 1954

IBOR' DUI FOR:

ATLERITION

SUEJECT

STC/ SPB

tis.

Cancellation of spout OC on

(RUC)

Ross Lester CROZIER

Project PBSUCCESS

Co 25507

It is requested that sagoants oc

and granted to (Nane) Ross Lester CROZIER

of utilization on project PBSUCCESS be cancelled.

, dated 28 Apr 195%.

for purpose

F. P. HOLCOMB

Special Deputy, DD/P

calmatined to It noting corpletin

posten completed ty the 15p3

VUL 2 0 1954

SECRET

---

## Page 82

14-00000

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

STC/SPB

Attention:

FROM & Chief, WID

DATE:

25 May 1954

1.

This division has been advised by the Guatenala City station •

that BIRADIAL (forterly HUMANOID) is currently being used as cutout in

the ESCROl project.

2.

BIRADIAL, whose pseudonyn 18 Anthony G. VAIVADA, holds OPC for.

PESUCCESS.

•3. In accordance with the recommendation contained in Para. 6 (b),

Memorandur of the Chief, Plans, FI, dated ? May 1954, subject:

Project

Renewal ESCron, it is requested that the OPC for this agent be anended

to authorize his additional use as stated in Para. 1 above

ford. co K110

SECRET

---

## Page 83

14-00000

SECRET

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

No-C-25507

TO: Chies, uH

Operational Clearance is granted for the use of betime la VAIVADA

- as follows:

This clearance anends Subject's first sase (Ps) froa Anthony To Arthur.

Use however, remains as stated in clearance dated Zo Apr11 1954.

As requested in mesorandul dated - 274-512 1954

Inis clearance is for the specific use set forth abore, and is based upon, an

appraisal of information currently available to this office.

It must be borne in

mind that this clearance is in no way to be construed as a guarantee of subject's

bona fides, but merely reflects that derogatory information, if any, has been

considered and evaluated for the instant purpose only.

Dato.

MAY 5 1954

IT/STC/ SPB

SECRET

MAN

08: 59-47 00

пот то

---

## Page 84

14-00000

mind

SECRET

(5s00 Pillos la)

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

No. C-25507

T0: Chief, wH

ARthUR

Operational Clearance is granted fo= the use of tears la VAlVALA

- as Pollows:

As recuested in meno of 27 dIril 1951 tus clearance supersedes

that of 19 Jaly, 1949 and peraits Subject's use under Project

PBSUCCESS.

Furtber, this cisarance is so arendei to allow

for Subjoct's additional artles as cutcut under Projeci, ESCFOr.

As requested

in memorandun dated _ 27 Açcil 1954

his clearanco is for the specifie use set forth above, and is based upon an

appraisal of information currently arailable to this office.

It must be borne in

mind that this clearance is in so say to be construed as a guarantee of subject's

sona fides, but perely reflects that derogatory information, if any, has been

considered and eraluated for the instant purpose only.

TAPR 28 1954

n733%

IC/ст

SECRET

---

## Page 85

14-00000

SECRET

27 Ap511 1954

MEMORANDIA FOR: SIC/ 5P3

ATTENTION :

Mr.

SUBJECT

: Clearance for Arthur G. VAIVADA (Ps) - PESUSCESS

Confirnins conversation on 26 Arril 1954 between Mr.

and Bir -

PBSUCCESS, It 1s requested tiat Operaticnal Clearance

No. 68, cuted 19 July 1949, granted to Subjest under Project EIRADIAL,

cou be amended and brought up to date for Surlect's use on Project

PSSUCCESS.

In additien, 1t 1s further requested that the cierrance Issued

be so amended as to also reflect subject's additional dutles as cutout:

on project EscaoW.

SECRET

---

## Page 86

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

ROLITING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should bo used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across shoes

and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column.""

Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)

before further routing.

This Routing and Recurd Sheet should be returned to Regisery.:

FROM:

на

DATE

VH, 11I

TO

ROOM

NO

12 A-ril 1954

COMKENTS

1.

DATE

REED

FIDD

129pa 54

OFFICERS :

INITIALS

ческ

ESTERIA NE

DA!ILGREN

2507

FI/STC/SPB

ATT:

HIR. BJ.OON

20 am vy

3. Tbore is no conflicte of

Interest here. PSBUCCESS is the

primary interest and ESCRON LA

supparting PESUCCESS. AUL.

BOC

SECRET

CONFIDENTLAL

"it interi

ота

•UNCLASSIFIED

600a

27/24:91

---

## Page 87

14-00000

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

ATT

FROM &

FI/STC/SPB

DATE: 12 April 1954

Mr. Burton

Chief, THD

SUBJECT:

(1)

Use of Contract Agent Anthony G. VAIVAA

as Cut-Out in ESCROn Froject

1.

2.

The Guatenala Station has zarised Headquarters that subject contract

agent, who holds Provisional Operational learance for EaSUCCaSS,

is currently also being used as cut-out in the ESC:Or Project.

Pursuant to telepione conversation this date betreen Mr. Burton

and the ill dest. officer concorned, it is requested that above

reference Provisional Cperational Clearance be amended to

authorize the use of VAIVADA in the EscRi project as indicäted

in paragraph I above.

CAH

postets

AN

reuses

front

for

(This sens Granger"

atention 1 Bu. Burton

= Bi

26 da w

SECRET

---

## Page 88

14-00000

Whilse offen

hamlling pagest Escrow, was advised

ou this date that he slaned satint

a request so Se/Ses to amend the

to pravile for his eise in projeet eserau.

It should he noted that BranDiAL is escriatl,

being wed an a cut-out in stie operation

april 9, 1954

Fine P. buster

---

## Page 89

14-00000

SECRET

9 Decamber 1953

HESORALDUM FORS STAFF C

ATTEITIONs

SUBJECT:

KI. Thanas Ogdeis

Arthur G. VAIVADA (pseudo)

It is requested that the proper clearance be gronted for the

use of subject, sow on Project BIPADIAL, on Project: #CCESS.

This

will confirm telephone conversation between your office and wh/Personnel

on 9 December 1953.

Sumachin:

on chard

J. Co KING

what tho

SECRET

---

## Page 90

14-00000

SUARE MERMATI

6. August 1953

HIRANDUY TOS FILE

PROLLS JaDOS Ro Burton

SUBTICT& ProjoCt BIRADILL

1. BIRDIAL (FOrMerly HUMA!OID) Is the only aeont Involved in thie.

operation at the prosent time. Additional agents aru expectad to be

added at a la tar dato.

The Case Officar ruportoi tiat the agents other than BIRADIAL

forcerly used in the HAlOID operition would be picked up by other

oparations in the Costa Rica area in too near futuro.

3.

The Caso Officer was Instructed to roport ti:o change in

BIRADIAL's cryptonym and use to SIC/SPB ánd also the changes for tho

ottar agento when their trunsior to nea projects hus been accomplished.

L. SIC/SPB concurrance is subject to further ravier of operation

aftor six nonths thon Camo detalls will de lori.

S.ORET\

SECURITY

---

## Page 91

14-00000

THRUS

SEC:

Fill un

Chief, 13i0

C-10F, STO

STC/SPB M

33243

2o-It 18 undurstood that, tits the escaption of the

HUAN ISI PrOjeCt, LINA'OD 18 to continuo irictivo-for an

undetorminad partodo

Any furthor contemplated use of HEllANOID

should be coordinated sith SIC/SPB.

3o In view of hia nife's and sother is lar's Costa Rica

background and apparent comections and associations with

paliticaliy snificant perso altles, 1t. 19 raconended

HAUNDID discontinue usin, his home lo ruprodica natarial

obtainod in tho liNAlISI Projacto

SECRET

---

## Page 92

14-00000

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

3 STC/OCO

FROM : Chief, FDT

SUBJECT, HUMANOID

DATE: 23 February 1951

The following answers are keyed to your questionnalre dated

5 February 1951 concerning HULALODD:

sio Subject is an active agent.

bo

He is used substantially the same as when clearance

was issued.

Subject has not been used in connection with projects

other than originally contemplated.

do Ull Information on subject's personal and operational

security has been subaltted.

The operation has been considered excellent. The only

test of HUMANOId's security has been the test of

evaluating his inforiation, and the evaluation of his

rollability by the Chief of Station.

There have been no operational or other changes in

the status of this agent which have affected our

evaluation of this agent.

SECRET

---

