10239-10034

2lpy

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

26 vebruary 1965

WH/C £65-84

UN=2476 : :
MEMOFANDUM FOR: Chief, EE/M :
SUNECT . : General: AMMIUC/1 Debriefing Report $287

specific: Cuban Intelligence Service Re+
lationship with: Cxethostovaxia ia

In one respect the LGI (Cuban Intelligence service) has
& special relationship with Czechoslovakia. when a Cuban aational
or azent of other citizenship goes through Prague, he must obtain
a Crechoslovax visa. For 1 GI staff and agent, liaison is con-
ducted by “ALHELTU." The azent subtuits to “ALLER TO" bis
Cuban and own nationality pazsport, and “ALBEXTO” gets the
visa, «ben an‘agent arrives in frague, he is supposed to
telephone 6-9670, which is a Czechuslovax security service
sumber, The. service arranses, when the ayent reporte his name
and passport number, to meet buu somewhere, probably his
hotel; the Czechoslovak security) service then picxs up the pass-
part at the meeting. Tha Cubann never soe it Szain and do not
now what becowes of it. wi course, it is quite possible the
Czechs may turn the passports over to the voviets, but the CGI
at the operational level bax no cnowledze of what bappens to
passports when they have been picced up in Prague. since the
arrangenient depends entirely on the azent, it has sone loopholes;
tp some instances agents have nut lollowed their instructions, have
act telephoned the sumber in Prague, aud have gone on their
further travels still in possession of the Cubaa’passport issued them
in alias to yet to Prague. In such cases thero is nothing the case

alficer can do.
23
Govjarria stots >
Cf wi /C/ R/S
Distribution:
2-Addressee 2

3
2-RL GD 120-46, 19-5-p)
1--VH/C/RR/O8' Chrono : :
1-8H/C/ESEC ia 7 :
1-siary/Eernice : ¥ Vite fe Gttae/
2-ANMUG/1 Production {ha
