‘Toa-t0062-10798 [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
. e

ne

"1 unctassirten ee (1 CONFIDE JAL - fX SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD ‘SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Response, to OLC Request - 78-2488

EXTENSION | NO.

C/CI/RA/T . 9429

CI 293-78

DATE

28 tere
}: (Officer designation, room number, and
rating) pci COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1.
AC/CI/RA

3.
2D C/CI (for signature]
4

RETURN TO GIA
a Background Use
Do Not Repredues

Chief, Liaison and Qversight Cox
Attn: Mr. Norbert § k
2D_0109.

FORM LV USE PREVIOUS 1 Deen TT natieeneerrees —sOINTFRNAL onl


2843768

CI 293-78

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Liaison and Oversight Control, PCS
ATTENTION : Mr. Norbert Shepanek

FROM : B. Hugh Tovar
Chief, Counterintelligence. Staff

SUBJECT : Response to Office of Legislative Counsel
Request
REFERENCE : OLC 78-2488

-

1. In order to provide answers to the questions
posed in paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 of reference we
again have reviewed the files which were returned to
Headquarters following the death of Winston Scott in
Mexico City. These files are stored at the Agency

ee Records Center in{Warrenton} Virginia.

2. -Reference paragraph nine any files which
were maintained in the Staff on Lee Harvey Oswald
presumably have been reviewed by the members of the -
House Select Committee on Assassinations. They are
available in Mr. Russell Holmes' office. Regarding
your request for any and all files maintained by
James Angleton and/or the CI Staff that pertain to
Mexico Surveillance Operations; there are several
hundred reels of audio film stored in the Records
Center which contain telephone coverage of the Soviet
and Cuban Embassies in Mexico City for the period
22 November 1963 through 13 December 1963. A review
of these tapes by persons from CI Staff and LA Division
did not uncover any information pertinent to the
assassination of President Kennedy. The period covered
is subsequent to the time that Oswald was known to be

in Mexico.
d yf 3°S~



af!

SECRET

-2-

3. Attached are two listings of the Mexico City
Station files in the possession of Winston Scott at
the time of his death. Both listings are for the same
files; the 5 May 1977. listing was prepared for LA 1
Division, while the form 4034, dated 21 October 1977,
was prepared during a task force review ofall the
files held at the Records Center. One of the objectives
of the file review at the Records Center was better
organization of our retired files...-Another was the
removal of all duplicate paper.

4. We do not have a record of any files in Mr. Scott's
safe that pertained to the Subjects in paragraph 11 of
reference. We have reviewed the material described in
paragraph three above and reproduced (attached) those
documents that pertain to the Subjects in paragraph 11
that might be of interest to the HSCA. :

fo Hugh Tovar
Attachments: herewith

(1) Inventory of Mexico City COS Records, 5 May 1977
(2) Form 4034 (File Review Worksheet)

(3) Memorandum of Conversation, May 17, 1964

(4) DIR 84914 (cable), 24 November 1963 ra
(5) HMMW-12931, 23 September 1964

(6) HMMW-12193, 17 December 1963

(7) DIR 87666 (cable), 7 December 1963

(8) DIR 85039 (cable), 27 November 1963

(9) MEXI 7104 (cable), 27 November 1963

(10) MEXI 7093 (cable), 26 November 1963

4
5

SECRET,


‘SECRET

28 33%6
CI 293-78

. #

. MEMORANDUM FOR: Chiéf, Liaison and Oversight Control, PCS

ATTENTION i. Mr. Norbert Shepanek
FROM : B. Hugh Tovar
: Chief, Counterintelligence. Staff
SUBJECT 2: Response to Office of Legislative Counsel
: Request
REFERENCE : OLC 78-2488

1. In order to provide answers to the questions
posed. in paragraphs. 9, 10 and 11 of reference we
again have reviewed the files which were returned to
Headquarters following the death of Winston Scott in
Mexico City. -These files are stored at the Agency

“Records Center in [Wa¥rentom Virginia.

2. Reference paragraph nine any files which
were maintained in the Staff on Lee Harvey Oswald
presumably have been reviewed by the members of the
House Select Committee on Assassinations. They are
available in Mr. Russell Holmes' office. Regarding
your request for any and all files maintained by
James Angleton and/or the CI Staff that pertain to
Mexico Surveillance Operations; there are several
hundred reels of audio film stored in the Records
Center which contain telephone coverage of the Soviet
and Cuban Embassies in Mexico City for the period
22 November 1963 through 13 December 1963. A review
of these tapes by persons from CI Staff and LA Division
did not uncover any information pertinent to the
assassination of President Kennedy. The period covered
is subsequent to the time that Oswald was known to be
in Mexico.

SEGRET



olf

‘SECRET :

3. Attached are two listings of the Mexico City
Station files in the possession of Winston Scott at
the time of his death. Both listings are for the. same
files; the S May 1977 listing was prepared for LA
Division, while the form 4034, dated 21 October 1977, ’
was prepared during a task force-review of all the :
files held at the Records Center. One of the objectives
of the file review at the Records Center was better
organization of our retired files....Another was the
removal of all duplicate paper.

4, We do not have a record of any files in Mr. Scott's
safe that pertained to the Subjects in paragraph 11 of
reference.- We have reviewed the material described in
paragraph three above and reproduced (attached) those
documents that pertain to the Subjects in paragraph 11
that might be of interest to the HSCA.

: Sy

Ys/ Leonard iicCoy fors,

B. Hugh Tovar

Attachments: herewith
(1) Inventory of Mexico City COS Records, 5 May 1977
(2) Form 4034 (File Review Worksheet)
(3) Memorandum of Conversation, May 17, 1964
(4) DIR 84914 (cable), 24 November 1963
(5) HMMW-12931, 23 September 1964 Reece
(6) HMMW-12193, 17 December 1963
(7) DIR 87666 (cable), 7 December 1963
(8) DIR 85039 (cable), 27 November 1963
(9) MEXI 7104 (cable), 27 November 1963
(10) MEXI 7093 (cable), 26 November 1963

SECRET,


: ~§ May 1977
_ INVENTORY OF MEXICO CITY COS RECORDS .
_ JOB 73-102, Space 301470

Box 1: 1 Folder, Willard C. Curtis Vol VII Jan 1966 - June 66.
" * 1. Folder, Willard C. Curtis Vol VIII June 66 to December 1966.
: 1 Folder, Willard'C. Curtis Vol IX Jan 67 - June 67.
ft ‘ Letter dated 14 June 67 from Jack Kaufman to Win Scott mentions
. Garrisson investigation but no new details. ‘

a1 oer fifocen operation, Mexico City file. :
1 Folder, relations with Ambassador” Hill I Jul 57-30 Jan 58.

1 Folder, : II 13 Dec 57-15 Jan 59.
a 1 Folder, : At a “THT Jan 59 - Mar 60. :
: + 4 Folder, is aterite! add IV Jan 60 - 30 Apr 69.

Box 2: 1 Folder, Willard C. Curtis Vol III October 59.- Sep. 62.
« “1 Folder, Willard C. Curtis Vol IV July 1962 - Dec 63.
3 Appointment books for years 1967, 1968, and 1969.
Pages from appointment calendars for years 1960, 1957, 1961 § 1963.

Box 3: 1 Folder, Mexico City Commendation File 1956 - 1969. ~

~ V1 cc DIR-84914, 24 November 63, cable from Lloyd K. Destiond to
Curtis...deeply appreciate efforts being made by you....Te
OSWALD case. Copy in P-8593 201-289248)

» 1 ce DIR-87666, 7 Dec 63, cable to Mexi from Hq...presume all

‘ concerned now agree Alvarado will be returned to Nicaragua. .
(copy in 201-389248)

V1 cc HMMW-12193, 13 December 63 RYBAT dispatch, from Hq to Mexico
Commendation for investigation JFK assassination...(copy in
201-287248) .

» Wl HMWW-12931, 23 Sep 64, Dispatch from HQ to MeXi, Subj:

Sylvia Duran Handwriting Samples. Says no further need tg obtain
samples...File: 200-5-41.
1 Folder, 00S relations with Ambassador Mann Vol I 6 Apr 61-26 Jan 62.

e

~ 1 Folder, . II Feb 62 - Oct 67..
1 Folder, Willard c. Curtis Vol V Jan 64 - Dec 64.
an ’ 1 Folder, VI Jan 65 - Dec 65.
ates 1 Folder, Udita X June 67 - Dec 67.
1 Folder, eee XI Jan 68 - Nov 68.
1 Folder, eteae XII Jan 69 - Mar 71.

Box 4: 2 packages of semi-official correspondence, including receipts
for miscellaneous expenses and personal travel.
2 calendar pads with appointments for year 1956 and 1958.
: 2 Folders on COS relations with Ambassador Freeman 1964-1968.
+ +1 Memorandum of Conversation, 17 May 64 between Ambassador Freeman
and Mexican Foreign Secretary asking for Mexican report on the
OSWALD investigation.
1 packet of condolence cards for death Maev Paula Scott (00S'
wife who died in 1962 in Mexico).



‘Page 2 inventory of Job 73-102.

_ Box 5:

1
1
1
4
1
1
1
1

“> #6

Folder, Mexican peuspaper clippings on leftist political
activities, March 197

Folder, Vouchers, baller and advances for Scott for period
1959 to September 1961.

Folder, correspondence with John Baron regarding publications
in Readers Digest and manuscripts 1970-1971.

Folders, drafts of writings by Scott. 4
Folder, draft of quotations from various publications.
Folder, vouchers, receipts and advances for Scott for period
February 1957 - April 1959.

Folder, notes, NIS Survey Mexico, two draft cables, NIE # 80/90- -69,
28 March 1969, Economic Trends in Latin America.

Folder, Willard C. Curtis, Vol I 1956-Oct 1960.


. [Trorsecrer [xP secrer | | conriventian [| [uncuassirien 22 5 POrT

PATE OF RETIREMENT

. Tt Gg {2 13-foe

JOB NO. RECORDS SCHEDULE OPI DIVISION DISPOSITION DATE

fe bteases CoS Oudlinks the
pop
SF =
Oo iiacn an
AR ROC ER bine of
SY a
rs aa
“ “i “ " yol2 Bo ocT 6
po 120 FES bY |
L/S Fee 64 |

"7 COMPONENT te — ; REVIEWING QFFICER (o£0@ ge Baal ef c/IP/AR
on DATE on, DATE - QW OCF 27 DATE
are

1034 : FILE REVIEW WORKSHEET ; aor

FILE NO.

[oN
by

%

>
&

Q

\

Y

fv

_—
ec
XY?

®

P 1M

(>.

pe [ [i [Pe Fs fom [oy Fe [os [we FF I

ites



14-00000
tmPotr Cl By 6/7036

RECORDS SCHEDULE DIVISION SECTION DISPOSITION DATE
40-76 6) Pa CI/RK

Po a 6S |
ee
6 [ao Bee oS |

eee
Pa
LS jt 2 |

BE a 8 hla BR

as
aN

ee

. 2 . A
— fr Se
COMPONENT RMQ_ ; REVIEWING opricen ~ege een C/IP/AR

: a - DATE Af DATE - a] OcF 22 "DATE
carr” 4034 _ FILE’ REVIEW WORKSHEET : we ; ‘0



REVIEWING OFFICER _@ Eg RGE Beroley
—___9/ Qc7— 7, *

DATE
FILE REVIEW WORKSHEET we

PAGE

C/IP/AR

DATE

OF

2

HR
