# 104-10169-10243

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10169-10243

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ASTURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do No! Reproduce

UNCLASSIFIED

• Re.

•HIY

•O CONFE. ATTAL

YG AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBHECT, Optiona

# I16, 407-71ctos

FROMI

00/C-Support Branch-R. S. Irarld

unador Espinosa

DITENHON

1 на.

2268

DATE

19 Арг11 1965

1O: lOtter dosignation, room mumber, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INTIALS

1. HA/C

03

Attn: [Ray Monahan]

_Go 2702 dosequart

Mamo

PiAn

Ram

3.

190ркс5.

нау-

Attacbod, por our convorantion

today, 18 a copy of a taletypo iror

our How Tort Flald Offico concerning

subject, and his offer to be of

desistanca.

Is thore 18 anything ve can do

of further assitanco on this, lot

us knor.

• Ply tim lo recheat

wis guy.nut - Jcalled

in recently 8

you came up meth Notings

Ran

03

all oralian

an Hansn

14.

610 "У індив.

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

attached

1201m ESPINOSA-

see @c/D teletypemog.

201-255,147 milempe

starito me -let me

Knom what happens

RauM.

8-11: per su loll

terest at this twi

INTERNAL

UNCLASSIFIED

USE ONLY

3/90

---

## Page 2

14-00000

PASTER EE:

9T

XXXXX ZEA

SIX FOUR NINE WA

AP 15:

59, H$10

SECRET TOTO I617I6Z

VA CITE NYOR S552

SUPPORT FROM FREUND

1O IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE, NOY. DISTRICI, HAD

DEALINGS ON 16 APRIL WITH VICTOR DOMINADOR ESPINOSA,

A-11, 571,224, A CUBAN NATIONAL RESIDING AT A1S EAST S2ND STREET,

HYC (PHONES MA 107875) SUBJECT PLANS TRAVEL TO SPAIN (MADRIDS LATE

APRIL OR EARLY MAY TO VISIT GRANDMOTHER EMIGRATING THERE NOV FROM

CUBA.

SO SÚBJECT CLAIMS HE WAS TRAINED BY CIA IN GUATEMALA, IS DEMOLITION

EXPERT UHO VENT TO CUBA SEVERAL TIMES AND VAS THERE AT TIME OF BAY OF

PISS INVASION. ME SEVERED ALL RELATIONS WITH SHENCE

VITH ÇIA AND INDEED WITH CUBAN ANTI-COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN 1962.

"'" RECENTLY, HE HEARD FROM UNIDENTIFIED FRIEND OF CIA INTEREST

IN LEONEL ALONSO A CURRENT CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO FOROCCO OR

Berziy

-FONDLAL

ALGESIA COUR LIST SHOWS SERGUERA IN ALGERIA AND RODRIGUEZ

IN MOROCCOS, SUBJECT CLAIMS TO HAVE KNOWN LEONEL ALONSO

FROM YOUTH AND WOULD GLADLY REESTABLISH CONTACT WITH HIM BY

VISITING NORTH AFRICA FROM MADRID IF THIS VERE CIA'S DESIRE.

APPARENTLY, HE DOES NOT KNOW HOW TO COMMUNICATE WITH CIA AT

PRESENT.

A. BANG POINTS OUT SUBJECT NOT ONLY MAY WANT CIA FINANCIAL

A9SISTANCE FOR TRIP, -BUT IS FACINU DIFFICULTISO OBTAININO IANS HE.

ENTRY PERMIT WICH HE MAY HOPE CIA COULD MELP MIM OVERCOME.

SO PLEASE NOTIFY WHIC PROMPTLY OF THIS POSSIBLE OPERATIONAL

OPPORTUNITY.

GLOMET

CEN NYOR S6S2 SUPPOTT FHEUND N Y 16 VICTOR DOMINADOR ESPINOSA

A 18 891 224 A CUBAN 115 EAST DENO STRET NYC NA 1 7875

---

