# 104-10177-10221

## Page 1

104-10177-10221

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILL TOTLE/S NB8/001.0941.:

- 81-326K

FITE

INCLUSIVE INTES:

142-276

CUSTODIA. UNIT/LOCATION:

DATE

TATT

PECEIVED

RETURNED

54.9:928

TVILSED BY.

(PRINT NATE

STONATURE OFF

KEVIEWING OFFICIN

NO MUCUMENTS MAY ME COULD OR TOLD ERO THIS MI.:.

MATERIAL FLED A DANC:"

IS IN CHRONIC OCAL 04.5

201 No

---

## Page 2

. !.

---

## Page 3

CONSTONT SECRETI

SECKKE

inhen filled ini

23 tier 74

(duce)

Revich of 201 File on l.S. Clttzen

in accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974, I have revlewe‹

the 201 file on

(surnane) (201 number Indicated below),

•and have determined that lt can nost. accurately be catezorized as indicated below:

Should be closed. (If this category applies,

affix Records Officer stamp.)

Unwitting collaborator. Ol Code A7.

Explanation:

Witting collaborator. OI Cole Al.

Potential witting collaborator; date opened:

OI Code A2.

Former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).

DI Code A3.

Potential witting collaborator never contacted. OI Code A4.

Counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or

security service).

OI Code AS.

All others. Of Code Ab.

signed Joom.

H. GICARDL

(name)

(title)

Tils assignment of category has been entered into StAR.

Signed

59580

(Initials)

This docuient is a permanent pärt of this file.

201--

CONFIDENTIAL

• SECRET

FRLSKA

(componenL;)

(date)

:33608

---

## Page 4

14-00000

nuu c: 1356 -

- S-50%

ger ESt 43-43

OFFICIAL

DISPATCH

3P

• VIA:

AIR

DISPATCH

NO. 81554-3435

TO

FRÖM

Chici; &Di

Chiel,

CLASSIFICATION

HAS

DATE: 8 Noverber 1249:

Subsect is presently employed

• He. Is well krown to

the forcer naving known hir

socially for a number of jears and the latter having dealt with him on

transportation problems since his appointent, fifteen months ago, to the

position he non occupies

2.

Subject is also

a long-time friend of UNCTED, who broight him

to our attention as a potential recruit and who has provided us with the

biographical information eontained in the attached personal record forma

No. 51-67.

3a Fron rhat I have been able to gather from UNMOVED, as tell as

from

subject appears to be the type or individual which

miaht be ideally suited to

fulfill certain valuable operational assigrm.ints

such as rspotter" for other high-level potential agerts, high-

LEVEL

corcacts,

cut-out, etc. All who know him agree that subject is

capable

of "doing

anythire and getsire to know aryone" 1f he so chooses.

Apparertly.

süticoti, despite the "bräss" nich surrounds his perceptible personality, is

a perious-minded, Intelligent and patriotic Individual who nas tad sich ex-

perience alory lines which could be of use to this organization, as, mell as

an uncanny knack of beine able to introduce and ingratiate hiaself into prac-

tically any nilley of interest to his nork or wishos. A paral list of

suuject's fairly close friends,

as. reported by UNLOVED on Page 8-a of attach

sent; shons the varlety of people subject knoxs and sees whenever they are

In this area. Undouttedly, subjoct hinself could add a much longer list of

nases to those reported herein, particularly nich respect to contacts in

purope.

40.

I an anured be twO/D that subface,

despitn his ability to

alke and keep murerois ans varied friendships,

1s tar fron being a "good

tibe Charlie";

•He la, on we other land, cie ot those characters mhow erery-.

one likes and tarts and to goes out of

ael may is sar as often is pcca-

elon permalis.

Univan arsares ra that sutjec;

201

Kcularls dood frien

Hit ail

•ES COPY

CLASSIFICATIEN

TASTRAGE

---

## Page 5

4-00000

771

-2 DESER STITCO

IT FA- 3489.

C KAPOK

So it is our thought that pert

and in the cover-jol he nor occupies c

this Station and the organization asia

don of movesont outside

ary milieu his assignmenis might requir

sonality

antago by

solute free-

a prectically

n intell

gent, bard-morkinz anu patriotic indial

6. oni a recent tour of Insoection

circult,

assuredisubject.he rould endeavor

to secure for hin en additional allotment of tunds to supplement bis

present expense account budget.

Due to budgetary restrictions this has

not been possible and subject is at present seeking arother, more reuner-

ative position, since le claims that his present Incowe of approxinatel

$666:00 monthly (including expense account) is Insufficient to permit hir

to live

and maintain the contacts and activity required by his

job. According to UNICVED, subject is at present endeavorini: to secure

from his good friend|

the

sales agency

Jeamthile,

however, subject is

not contemplating resigning his position

until he has a firm and

more reminerative prsition.

UNSCVED states that subject plans to remain

at least antal the end of the year, by which time he may have

secured sonewling better. Subject has also harl talks with

(on his receni trip to

concerning the possibility of handling the

agency here.

Nothing has come ci this possibility to date, but

subject appears to be hopeful.

UNLOVED is of the opinion that subject wouid be nost receptive

to a proposition of doiro intelligence work and furthermore believes that

if subject could supplement his present income by an additional $200 or

5300 per sonth, he would be willing to remain with Tili, thich he likes

and is only considering leaviny due to his present lon total income,

of which is spent in connection with activities required by his positiou.

8: UMOVED has, of course, lever even hinted to subject anything

about his can undercover activities and is sure subject does not suspect

that the forner is doing anything but his cover work in France.

when questioned as to his opinion concerning subject's potential value

as a covert agont, as tell as his rec-uitability, has pointed out very

strongly that subject, que to the very nature ci his personality; must

be given a good deal of operational fuidance and be closely controlled.

Questioned as to whecher sone other indivitual should endeavor to recruit

subject, UNaVED raj of tho opinion trat,

should the organization desire

to do so, he wouid be best fitted to exploit subject's posential, sance

- COPY.

201-33609

---

## Page 6

14-00000

??!

WFTA-2059

- 3 .

he has known hin far a good aary years and as a close friend, knows nis

sirong and rest poini and couiù,

is gerian, intaile suujeci to bettsi

advantage tian another individual irho nighi have only occasioral contact

with hins

9.

Fe request that consideration in given to the advisability of

endeavorin, to recruit subject and,

in the ovent of a favorable decision,

that provisional operational clearnce de given in order

that subject may

be approached on the subject of enzaging in intelligence rori.

Tithi

regard to then should actually recruit subjech, te suegest that HE night

¡e would appreciate your reactions to the desirability of

recruiting suijeet, as nell as your thoughts as to hor best. exploit his.

obvious potential.

• Ilo Il subject's Ircruitability is approved in principle ari he

is given provisinnal securiti cleararce,

this Station would then prepare

a field project outline, to be subaitted to you for approval.

Dan & Surien

Dan 0. Garner

DOG: jres

Encl:

Personal Record Forr

Pistribution:

Files

---

## Page 7

3059072

709

MCVICKAR

Last Name

LEFA

3487

FORM NO.

51-67

Ja 1013

SECRET

Authorized Staft only

PERSONAL RECORD OF

John

First

Middie

Placo Photograph horo

1f available

=:..152

MOG 2? 1965

DATE 25 ectober 1910

SECPET

Asthorized Staff only

5:3.3428

---

## Page 8

14-00000

- 2 =

SECRET

Authorized Staif only

1. FULL ILSE, IN NORNAI, SEQUETICE.

Jobn Augustus HeVickar, Jr.

2.

VANE I NATIVE SCRIPT OR OTHER APPROPRIATE CHARACTERS.

3.

HAME AT BIRTH (1f aifferent from ito. 1).

4.

5.

Sarse

ALL ALLISES (give brief statement of time und place of uso,:

(Include Nicknames - Legal Chargos.):

sio aliases. Nickname. - "Jöhnny"

DATE AID PLACE OF BIRTE.

6.

7.

NATIONALITY, ALSO RACE (if appropriate) :

UoSo

NATIONALITY AT BIRTE (if different from No. 6). INCLUDE di

NATIONALITIES FELD.

Sams as above •

PERMANET ADDRESS (I. different than present residence).

None

10. PRESSIT OCCUPATION (GIVe Full titlo, Indication as to earntrza, ete.):

Srecial Sales Representative

---

## Page 9

3.

SECRET

Authorizer. Staff oily

11.

FATHER'S FULL NAME, NATIOIALITY AT BIRTH, PRESENT NATIONALITY,

PLACE OF BIRTH,

PRESENT RESIDENCE.

Father was born in U.S. and has always held U.S. citizenship.

Formerly a

12.

MOTHER IS FULE NAME, NATIONALITY AT BIRTE, PRESENT NATIONALITY,

PLACE: OF BIPTE, PRESENT RESIDENCE.

"aSo citizen at birth. Now deceased.

13. HUSEAT/WIFE: FULL NAME (Includo maiden name of wifo); NATIONALITY

14.

.15. NAMES OF BROTHERS/SISTERS, AGES, NATIONALITY, RESIDENCE,

111 U.S. citizens and all living in U.S.

SECRET

Authorized Staff anly

---

## Page 10

Authorizel Staif only

• •

16. IF SUBJECT, PARENTS, OR BUSBAND/WIPE NATURALIZED, GIVE DATE ANT

NAME IN WHICH CERTIFICATS WAS GRANTED.

NoDe

17. LIST OFFICIAL IDENTITY PAPERS NEID DY SUBJECT.

18. GIVE POESENT AND/OR PAST OFFICIAL CONNECTION WITH AIY GOVERNENT.

None

GIVE CONNECTIONS WITE ANY INTELLIUEICE SERVICE, PAST OR PRESENT. RÁS

SUBJECT EVER BEST A DOUBLE AGENT?. EAS SUBJECT EVER BEEN CONSIDERE

THE TYPE OF AGENT WHO SAULS HIS INPORMATION TO THE EIGEST BIDDER?

EXPLAIN.

20.

RELIGICN, AID DECREE PRACTICSO. (Nesberetip in Religious Ordere.).

protestant.

Infrequent attendant a: church.

SEC. 31

authorized Staff mily

---

## Page 11

SECRET

iutterized Stair only

?1.

FOLITICAL ORIENTATION. TO WEAT CLUBS, ORGANIZATIONS, LABOR UNIONS,

PARTIES, OR JUCIRTIES HAS RE EELONGED?

Republicano Never a seaber of any club, organization, union,

part or society.

22.

SOCIAL STANDING (Ariatocracy, uppor aladle-clasa, lower middlo-claas,

poasantri, otc.).

UPPER MIDDLE

CLASS

23.

RECORD CE TRAVEL - OUTSIDE OF COUNTRY OF PRESENT PESIDENCE. (Under

Pirpose, 11st pertinent firue and poopls vialtod.)..

Country

Purpose of tile

Datos

France

British Isles

Ga. mary

Eoliano

1932 - 1939

Herray

Sweden

Dermark

The Test Indies

Brazil

.....

justralia

lier Guinea

1942 - 1912

Philippin Islands

SECRET

Authorizod Stafi ouly

---

## Page 12

6.

SECKET

Autherlied Start only

24. LOUCATION.

Name u! School

Sourse

'Degree

Mates

25.

IVIGUAGES AND DIALECTS (ineck proficiencs).

(8) Language

Good-Fair-Poor

•. - french

Good

Speak

Good-Isir-Poor.

Goud

Undersiand

Good-Fair-Poo

Good

(0)

ARE HIS LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHPRACTERISTICS SUCE

THAT HE COULI PASS RINSELE OFF AS A TITIVE TO i COUNTRY OR

RECION OTHER TRAN KIS CHI:

and typical Ancrican appeararce and

amerises difficult to disguise

26. MILITARY SERVICE:

country,

engarization, Rork, nature of luty,

whero gervice was forformed, wien discharged, why?

27. PRETENT OR PAST MEMBERSHIP DI FROLESSIOTN AND CHARITABLE SUCIETIES:

71 0D9

SECRET

Authorized Start only

---

## Page 13

---

Authorized Stait only

28. LIST STECIAL SITUS, HOBBIES AID ABILITIES. (Fa110, Protography, otc.).

sio hocures.

29. FINASCIAL STATUS: (Earnings, Bart Accourts, Securitice, Froperty).

30. ENPLOMER EISTORY. (Includo tupe oi vort dore, dates, esplogere,.

ar.d addresses.)

SECRET

authorized star? only

---

## Page 14

8.

SECRET

Authorised State olg

31. DESCRIPTICH (UBe Azarlian Staniardo n§ vostirebert).

FOSTURE

LEIGHT

SCARS

Erect

133 lbs..

soo - even

ärom - thick

16053

mick set

BEIGET :

5°100

ETaS

drey

FACE-SHAPE

Round

CONPLIXIOI . Fair

SET

Hale

GENPAI APPEARANCE

PROMINENT FEATURES NODe

DISTICUPOENTS NOcO.

PERSONAL HABIT'S VorTal

ATY TRAITS WEICH DISTITGUISE FROM OTEERS EAVING

SAVE GENTRAL DESCRISTION.

NC

32.

HAS SUBJECE DONE AITY WRITING? GIVE IRIAMS.

None

33. WAS HE EVEI A PRISONER OF WAR? GIVE DETAILS.

No.

34. WITY WIAT FEUPLE OR GROUPS DOES EE MOST OFTIL ASSOCIATE? (List several) .

and most of whos are irlends or long staring

contacts include persons of high social position and leaders

In business and intustry. This has been brought abou: partly- by the nature

•of his work

(See Fase ja PoT a liniied 11at of persons with mon subject associates)

SECILI

Authorized staff anly

---

## Page 15

SECRET

30.

EMINENT EXTORY. (Contimed)

SECRET

Authorized Staff only :

3.3605

---

## Page 16

14.00000

---

## Page 17

SEThaT

Authoriad Start only

35.

IS EL IS COFRESPOIDEICE NITE PERSONS OR FIRAS JUISIDE COSTAY CE

RESON PESINETiCE?

(In 8o, llati.

PRASUMABLY WITH

FAMIAY

SUBJECT

ONLY

BE

tORy Pock

CORRESPONDENT.

36.

EAS EE EVER BEER SENTENCED BY A COURT? - (WEEN, BY WHAT COUKT,

FINTOTTECT, PUNISEMETI. GIVE REÇORD OF ARRESTS AID AEQUITTAES.:

Sever

37. IT APPLICABLE, GIVE INFORMATION ON DETAZIFICATION - WUPTHER

OFFLIEDO, FROPOSED, OR REDUSED.

33.

ECW WAS BE FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVALOPED?

39. COTTO SUSJEDI BE TURIED OVER TO SOMEONE FISE FOR HANDLING QUICKLY

AD DE A SECRE. MANNER:

YES

40. ¡ENI IS TEE BEST. ESTIMATE AS TO SURJECI'S MOTIVATION?

NOT YET ArpRUdiHED..

SECRET

Authorizod

Stairs oriy

---

## Page 18

19.

intiorized Staff only

WITH WEAI AGECIES AND FILES FAS SUBJECT'S NAME BEEN CHECKED? WEETY?

FEAT ELSE EAS BERN DONE IC TONIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED

BY SUBJECT?

TO BE CLEARED

Вх. нФ.

PROVISIONAL

CLEARANCE

KLQNESTED,

42. ARE TEBRE ATY FACTORS WHICE CONIRIBUTE TO OUR CONTROL, OF SUBJECT?

NONE

-AT. PRESENT

43.

hi.

DOES SUBJECT KHOW FOP WHAT SERVICE HE IS WORKING OR DOES EE KNCH

IZE DESI LIATION OF HIS INFORMATION?

NIT

yer

RECRUITED

I POSSIBLE, ATTACH A SAMPLE OF SUBJECT'S HANDWRITING TOGETHER

STIE SIGATURE.

WilLi BE SUPpLIEd..LATER.

45.

IS SURJECT (SOF exaMple) WELL;-HIFCRMED AND INTELLIGENT

LIPORMED BUT SEREND

__; NOT VERY BRIGET_

аб.

EON DO YOU EVALUATE, IIS CHATLICTER, RELIABILITY, SELURITY?

TO BE SUPPLIED LATEK

PIKOVIDED

SECRET

juthorized Staff only

---

## Page 19

11.

SECRET

Authorised Ster?'anly

4?.

WHAT TIPE OF IIFORMATION ZAS RE FURNISEED AND WHAT TYPE IS HS

EXPECTIN TO FURNISH IN THE FUTURE? GIVE AN EVALUATION OF INFUR-

MATICH RECEIVED.

JUSTEIT

IS IDEALLY SUITEN

WHICH. UKINGS

INTO

FJTENTINL

ARENTS AND

CONTAIT

• coutie

WITN MANY

CONTACIS.

48.

IF SUBJECT'S DUTIES ARE OTHER THAY INTETLICENCE GATHERING, SO

INDICATE:

SUBTELT WOUL;

PERHAPS

RECRUITER.

"SPOTTEK" AND

49.

HAS ILE BEEN CIVEN SPECIAT, TRAINING AS AGENT? IF SO, DESCRIBE THE

TRAINING.

SECURITY GLEARED WILL DE. TERINED

50:

IS SUBJECT INTEGRATED WITH ANY OTHER OPERATIONS?

NOT

YET. RECRUITED.

51. DO ME KNOW GENERALLY BO AID FROM WHOM HE OBTAINS INPORMATIONS

NOT

YÉT, APRLICABLE.

IS HE PAID A REFLIAR SALARY BY US? AMOUNT: -

RETAINET

$200 ANO $ 300 MONTLY.

TRAINING AND. BAFFING PERIOD.

RECÖMMENDED DURING

53.

HAVE ANY UNFULFILLED PROMISES BEEN MADE TO HIM?

YET

APPLILABLE:

Authorlead Stars anly

761-334608

---

## Page 20

• ді

12.

SECRET

Authorized Staff only

SEVATES: (MI ESSAY FORM, MARE ANY COMMENTS ON FACTORS CMITTES VEICH

ARE LETHRO BY THE CASE OFFICER TO RE FERTITAVI TO THE INDI:LIAL AND

I'EL PERSIAL RECORD. ADDENDA SHOULD BE MADE TO THIS FOPM. FROM TIME

SEE CONGreNCE

LETTER.

SUBMITTED BY SYDNEY

P.. GLASER

ST UF.ET

Aurorized Seaft only

---

## Page 21

4-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA:

TOUCH

DISPATCH NO. AFF!.SILY.

TO

Chies, FIN

DATE: I5 Decerder 1949

FROM

Chief,

SUOJECT: DEMERAL O JODA AUGUSTUS ECTICKAR, JEE 20/ - 33608

-..

We regret that circunstances beyond our control prompted us to

421), on the off chance that subject might he of suffilent

Interest to you as a potential candidate for recruitient, thus bringing to

A heari a question which normally rould have followed its course throuch the

this case, however, due to sibject's alleged resignation

re felt that a cable such as the one we tisnatched was justified,

fact that unless some quick action 1s taken, Subject will definitely leave his

and seat employment elserhere.

On 10 Dacender, Subject had luncheon with BiRF and unloaded all his

financial troubles. In a casual way HARF asked him in by any chance he mould

he willing to shay on

11 his salary were supplementede

subject took

this rossibility, since it is well-known that Subject likes his

job and desires vur much to remin, but is resigning revely or financial

in consultation wier thorn and lasts, both

of whon kner Subject

mell, it is arnarent that probably 2300 conchly mould allon Subject to decide

provided te are sufficlently interested in recriting hin

for intelligence activitias.

Attached hereto 15 Marvels latest erort on Subject, dated 8 Decei

prepared price to kie's luncheon mith Subject.

sone question as to nether Subject has actually subritted his resignation to

in mriting.

to curren, he has, wherras Subject denied this to

that subject is tiking terriral

jeave at presene, prior to lenzing

lie de now amalt jour renation as to motior you feel thee in paircipio

WCTICEAR. is morch recruitingo

it is too carly, not having had srecific ind

detailed talls rita deViCia, en subait a project outline, but all trem are

macis in all countrles ol bastern Curare.

Dacl: 1

Tile

(QI

ABSTRACT

CS COPY

CLASSIFICATION

---

## Page 22

& Docembor, 1969

Subjoot: leVIcKA?, Joie: Aluures J..

Subjoot is quittin, his position

as of 31 Dosarbor, 1949.

in august, 1919, subject ascised his aueriors, Including

and a porsonal friend, that jo could

no: continuo unleas a larger palary and a sore libera! expenso necount more furth-

coninzä. Ho was informed in dus courao by Vico President

that, it mas Impossible

for who comuany to givo him nore uoney within the present majo structura.

on or about 15 roverber subject hae

therafor decidod to seek otim- emlarion. no could procead to sale new arrangesonia

•as of the and of tho joar.

advised by Overcas lanager Mother fudgect actually resigned or was askod to

torninate lie connsation due to his repoated asands jor soro soney 18 not completely

clear to the vriter.

Oversoes Karager

subject's popuiarity. On the other hand,

was never arunathetic with the subloct.

According to

was jealous of

company"s nast veliable esploye overseao.

ins told the writor that subfoot io the

concura in that belief.

Subjact is highly rogarded by

•In addition he lo a clono friend of

chairman c? the Board, ino engaged him

direotly in she iiret place.

lione of thase. however, seen willinz to run countar to

the aconomy drive now in progress within

sponsored by new President

Inst sinute change in poiley ausjoct's terriration will stand.

rakes frequor': businesa trips to Eurone on behall of hia

om company which donia in spare parts

he has intirated that he

might use subjoot in Eurojo for ali to eight monthe and then bring hin back to tho

Vas. ¡or employment, in mashington.

has sade suujoot no

definite offor but has adrisod him in a letter soen by the writor not to worry about

his futuro.

We! t Mirl 3e24 IS COPY

1201. 536017

---

## Page 23

14-00000

?

SubjoGt: ISTIURA?, JOIDi MUOISTIS IR. (continuad)

tip nondi

soibirod, In cador to

suojest nas told

calary ad exporda accolait

CS

COPY

2: - 33005

---

## Page 24

AF

1004 20

38.0

OUTODINO CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

PAGE No

To:

FROx:

SPECIAL OPERATIONS

COMPIRMATIO#DE (1-2)

ROUTINE

15 DEC 49

OUT. 95459

IMPORMATIO"ADSO (5-41, STE: (5), 110 (6), STD 173

Paraphrao Nol Rogulradi Elandle as SECRET Corre; pondonce per Para, 51 (1) 601 1R-S80-S

WB.SH

5370

TO :

RE:

CITE: WASHF

294 118 ..

• '58)

ALTHO

SUBJECT SOUNDED GOOD IN PRINCIPLE WE UNABLE APPROVE

REF PROPOSAL AT

THIS TIME FOR FOLLOWING REASONS:

FRIOR COMIPLETION PRELIM FOUR WAY CHECK PROVISIONAL

CLEARANCE UNSTAINABLE.

EVEN IF CLEARED AND DEFINITE TARBET IN MIND,

CONSIDERED EXCESSIVE FOR U: RIED.

UNTRAINED (ALTHO WELL PLACED)

INDIVICUAL CO!PARED OTHER STARTERS.

AS RESIGNATION APPEARS FAIT ACCOMPLI WE DO NOT CONSIDER IT

ADVISABLE ATTENPT PERSUADE SUBJECT RETÄIN PHESENT POST TIEREBY

INCURRING HEAVY MORAL OBLIBATION SUPPORT HIM FOR INDEFIHITE PERIOD

IN FUTURE.

3: NEW COVEA SHOULD STILL GIVE SUBUECT. LATITUDE OUR WORK IF HF.

REMAINS IN EUROPE.

WILL SUBMIT

RESULTS CHECK AND REQUEST YOU FORIAULATE

NEW PROPOSAL ÖN CASIS NEI COVER WHEN WE WILL REEXAVINE AND ADVISE,

TOD:

02452

2 21 33608

3. He LElUNGTON

ORICINATITE ATD CDORDISATISE OTTICERS

AUTHEYTICATING OTRICIA

SECRET

corr sa !

15, H8ES FORBIDDEN TO MAXE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

---

## Page 25

Hit.

:**7

39-9

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

PACE No.

FROM:

To: ..

SPECIAL OPERATIONS

ACTION:

FDM (1-2)

ISTORMATOSOSO (3-4), STA 15), STB (F), 1ID 87)

ROUTINE

11 DEC 48

IN 11158

Poraphrase Not Required, Handle as SECRET Currespondence per Para, 51 (1) 661.17R-330-5

1;214

TO:

WASHF

CITE::

1: UNMOVED REPORTS SUBECT WIFPA 3189 RESIGNED

1 JAN.

EFFECTIVE

2. SUBJECT APFEARS OPTIMISTIO RE POSSIBILITY SEGURING WORK

CONTACT MATERIALIZES SUBJECT WOULD RENAIN

SIX DR SIGH: MONTHS, THEN RETURN STATES TO WORK

POSSIBLY

• IN HASH.

3.

AT LUNCHEON WITH HARE 10 DEC SUBJECT TOLD HARE ALL HIS

FINANCIAL TROUBLES AND INDICATED WILLINGNESS REMAIN

IF INCOLIE

COULD BE SUPPLEMENTED.

UNG'OVED CONCURS WITH THIS. SUBJECT STATED

(RCVD DEHXEB) TO HARE NE HAD ACTUALLY RESIGNED

STATING HE

NOW TAKING TERMINAL LEAVE PRIOR TO RESIGNATION.

4.

IN VIEW DEVELOPHENTS ABOVE ME FEEL DECISION ONE

WAY OR OTHER OUR

PROVISIONIAL OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE ANO YOUR

THEREFORE REQUEST

BE OUR PART MUST BE MADE SOONER AUTHORITY APPROACH SUBJECT

IN PRINCIPLE, OFFERING SALARY $300 MONTHLY, SUBJECT TO FINNI. SECURITY

COVER JOB AT LEAST UNTIL WE MAKE FINAL DECISION.

• THIS IN ORDER PERSUADE SUBJECT REMAIN WITH SDEAL

COVER JOB

5. TILE, IN THIS CASE, IS OF THE ESSENCE:

33608

.. id 201-

TOR: 1211Z 11 DEC 43

SECRET

CoPy dia

IT IS FORDIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

---

## Page 26

2986501h05 2949

il biché e

Eudject n8 8Bid-3489

spaRTa lo hiTe, so you rugeoco, seny faceta mirth esploselar.

Io irpeci inle prallalnoty lourny ehset to take at laast sis

socia to coaplare sod in tha sestina suulá epcrociate a farther

11st of entfoetra coxbicté, skatured brlafly et the hostsa of

pagO Ba of Dia partonal recond fario.

Lince operAtional clearauso

la given only for a speciito parpose, me clao requcas ubaovet's

prOLIAlIATy toRE a expl-liatlos.

EMDj00t parSOnEl reCUTÓ fOrE (SA sOlI EU Uist subaltted

alch eres tüg Incilltstes

trachirà al lisia end.

¡#NOTED suid te congrIculatod os ilo

palistaking roporting in talo netist.

to бо дукєії

33608

---

## Page 27

ai"àn à

TRANSMITTAL SLIP..

FEE = 3 1950

OULONG E T-D - The Bredy

REMRNS For your files

Mis Thompar

Please

oipe

2028

wsluet to FDW

THB

FROM:

BUILDING

Sonne

ROOM NO.

EXTENSION

---

## Page 28

SECREI

arricar cosignalions

casaent nundarod lo corrargono dila ene ruador la lao "lo os luan,

faen offlear esours ioleta.

(chock port insullieron e boloro turpido cout.ng.

¡ale locard and Rouilng shoot arouro do caturnos do degraray,

FROM:

*iLY

DATE

TO

FD-W

ROOM

NO:

20J6

REC'O

DATE

7I0'0

2026 21

OFFICER'S

INICIALS

е

COMMENTS

This is habitar - ters

coisa, isen she?

Dripped e semi5 hir.

decalled.

duck) sehus aed tr eSc -

No fertter c beito pater de -

quied.

MVISKAR, JUMM AuseTas Ja

(201

ABSTRACT

X INDEX

201-33608

T07t50

Oso estiry

25141

FORM

но.

1018

SECRET

---

## Page 29

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA:-

arCIRY AIR CA DEA POUCH

OISPATCH NO. REPA- iel14

SECRET

• 4..

CLASSIFICATION

DATE:

10 February 1950.....

FROM

Chief, F3:

Chief,

SUBJECT: GENERAL.

SPECIFIC-

5F PA-3724; 660-5370

Unos! has just informed m that sabject has definitely docided

and is nor stayiry ot the Hotel Stanhope on Sth Avee,

UNLOrD further assures in ther cubicet is definitoly un employe?

for the moment and is desperately lookine for suitable empiopant.

2. Apparently Subject las dean aulo do borron a considorablo amount

of wendy, he having sent so his wire no recained tahindl

i suffi-

ciant amoun's of dollars to cover local dei's in

which Subject

had accrued

at the varlous

hotels, kers, nightelubs, etc.

sabjoct's

wife is at

preseat liquidatig all those

catas, closing up and raturning to

the orner tne apartment in mich they liveà sad plans to depart, for New Tork

to rejoin her husband mithin a fen dayse

3.

Unove hi: also assured me the soject is very anxious to raturn

aná. If possicl

UNciEs has -aintained his contacts with

ottier high

officials

Tho hars told hin that they are "lost with-

out subject, and mould be very glad to soc his cack

It also

SEEmS

apparent that Subject left

under favorable circunstances and would be

willing to return (and they aculd accept hir) provided his financial situation

era

satisfactorily settled.

IS Subject st1ll intorests you, I suggest you endeavor to contect

him at his hool ln Nor York.

DOG : Jars

Dan D. Serwar

Jia'ner

Districation:

FB!

file

REGISTRY COPY

CLASSIFICATION

AS COPY

20i-33408

---

## Page 30

INSTRUCTIORS:

across shoot and

(chort

FROM:

CSO

0191800

SECHEL

FOUTINS AND RECORD SHEET,

abduldle ined ln the "lo" cdiem. dador doct onore a lino arould be dison

AponA sitA tha nuaDor

dach oftlear should talelal

Ay a 100r

TA! I ROCOra

and doutlad innot should do caturned to Raglarry.

30.

HOON

но.

BY HAND

DATE

OFFICER'S

FRO'0

INITIALS

OMMENTS

ww

RIC'O

1226

CSO

23 7et. z0s-

pinter trestigation inglured

WMICROFILMEO

JUL 2Q 1956

o8o Reall

AT 1 1S50 /10

M.l. D.

FORD

81.10

TiMB

SECRET

---

## Page 31

SECRET

Office Menorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

ГОні.

DATB:

• 463)

FROM

, jesearch Branch, luü sialf

SUBJECT:

dchr algustas

140104

In accordance with your request, a covert name check was

conducted on the above named Suuject. The results are attached.

.. A roziew of the infornation furnished as a basis for this

name check indicates that active covert inquiry and/or searches

of other publie and quasi-public recurds should be productive.

However, in view of the limited nature of your request, no effort

to develop such information has been made.

The attacked data simply represents the results of inquiry

at the desipnated U. S. Government ageacles. Should indepeadent

domestie inquiries be required. under che provisiong o? the

Director's merorandun dated 14 February 1949, entitled "Security

and Operations: Clesrances", me nould be pleasad to conduct

them and furnish tbe results to you as prompily as possible.

FOR THE CHIEF OR ENSPECTIR ANO SEBURITY:

Attachment

Lamö check date

; = Exel.

MAR 1988 39-206

SECRET

---

## Page 32

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Stare 6/050 AitonI Ms. Scazos

TO

'Rossarah Eranor, las Stars

DATE:

FROM 'NOVICKAR, J5., John Augustus

:1.950

SUBJECT, 840104

In accordance with your sepsest, a covert nine chesi was

conducted on the above named Sutjert. The results sre attached.

A reviem of the information furnished as a basis for this

name enock indicates that active covert inquiry and/or searches

of other publie and quaal-publie recorda should be productive.

However, In view of the limited sature of your request, no effort

to davelop such information has teen made.

The attached data simply represeuts the results of inquiry

at the designated 'J.

S. Governmes: agencies.

Should independent

domestic

inquiries be required, lader the provisions

of the

Director's memorandum dated I4 February 1949, entitied "Security

anu Operational Clearances", we would be pleased to conduct

then and furnish the results to you as promptly as

possible.

FOR THE CHIEF OF INSPECTION AND SECURITY:

FOBERT R. CUNNINGHAN

Attartinehgot date

.

FOrM

МАЯ

1985

39-108

SEGRET

---

## Page 33

14-00000

SECRET

¿in di cronis

magee: in tie files di

conticantiat forcrant arte.

L-5.

confidential joternaon 4u909 Lal copertra do record an Subjcet.

un edwar

1900.

Mi dairy 1960, e regreserture of donarential dorcruent

timer l-o addoed uno no invecciation di giogogo ras ceca conductu

cre denego

20 Jou ber 19191 10100 debirdntà Giü Giüre ris no record of

Che mastor Indez of bio tullid abacio diril verrice Saimission mus

circad in

iata dada ta property al Impoilton sud Bocwity Hull Batorap

mo diana.

1000, dii ericords of bau dusa ure Dittalon, dueertäili

---

## Page 34

14-00000

135. 1013:

13? 01:

M Ca1SHiI0 3à

zarrica

SECRET

scased

tet subgéot..

SECRET

---

## Page 35

LASTRUCTIONS:

aerona sapaliano doce

Offlçar

FROM:

SECREI

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

7 t

eber routlag.

TD::

«cluon. .Undar ança cossens a lino

lach

offlear

a and Raiting Shoot shoulo do

returnod to

Raglatey.

inc.

BẠTE

FDT/Schlatter

ROOM

NO:.

23 Mar 49

CONHE: TS

DATE

REC'O "

F00°0

OFFICER'S

1JI TI ALS

231n/ 15 as.

CSO

22 NOV!

car. n.V

Des Dir 145.

19:

Pascal le cal

160.

81.10

400. 1009

SECRET

---

## Page 36

SECRET

23 Hovember 1949

WHORE DUN

. CSO

SUBJECT!

Request for liare Check

MeTICKAR, John Augustus, Jre

Nicknasa:

"Johmy.

Prosent Addresa:

Date and Place of Birth:

Citisenships U.S.

Relativess

Fatter

Hother - J.S. citison at birth; now daceased

Brothers-

Sistor. i

mie.

Daughte:

Educatlonel Baokerounds

SECRET

26÷

---

## Page 37

14-00000

SECRET

•2.0

Progent Employments

Solel ale a marate rol

Provicus Beploymonst

Gonoral Salos Afont

sör parlous Aerican prodicte;

Inoluding Jantron Bathing Sults, Throo-in-Coe Oil, the Franklin

¡Motor Car, the lie Baron Lotor Car: (at aço 18) i

Green sational,

Pinanciais

Or oo latgator of any club organisation, unlon, party

SECRET

---

## Page 38

SECRET

Referorouss

Subjoot hólda Do.8. Passport

SEC

RET

---

## Page 39

SECRET

29 MOTONDOF ID49

HERI PARDON

808

fines

SUBJDCIA Requast for Hano Ci ask

MOVICKAR, Joha Auguet 18, J5o

¡lotrans, "Johmy"

Prosert Addrosas

Foto and Place of Birthi

Citisonships D. S.

Rolativgas

Fathor -

Mothor = u.

Brothart -

$.

at birchi nom docenend

S19t3--

Daughtar

Bducational Brogrouad:

SECRET

---

## Page 40

SECRET

Prosant l'aployponte

Spoolal Salos Roprosontatito

Frontous Raplosente.

Gonoral falor Apert

sor varicus seioriods produata;

Inoludizig Jantson dathiug Suitr, Throo-la-Una Ult, tho Preskita

Motor Car, the lo Baron Motor Car. (at ago i8)

Organirationes

Howor o

motor of di di comente man party.

or sooloty.

P1 sana1 al i

SECRET

---

## Page 41

14-00000

SECRET

subfoot holda U. 8. Passport

SECRET

---

## Page 42

4-00000

28 lovenber 1940

208

FRISIE

FIA

SUBJECT.

Request Yor June Chect.

danas

HCVICKAR, John Augustus, Jr.

Monares "Sohimy"

на веретим

Prozont Addrete'

Date and Place of Brth!

Balati voar Father -

Nother - 1l'S. oftlien at birthi now dochaand

Brothere

Sister -

1180-1

Daughtor .

Educe tonal: Background,

---

## Page 43

4-00000

SECRET

Prosent Esploysents

Spoolai salos Roprasentativo

Protour Biploysonts

Canoral talos Agont

SOr DariOus haoTiCan prodiato

1aoludeng dantion Bathiag Sultö, 5hi00-in-Un0 011, tha Franklis

•Motor CAs, tha la DArOn lotor Car. (at Ago 18)

Orirant zationgs

Hover a sombor of any elub, orgerisation, unlon, party

or soslaty.

Pisanotale

SECRET

---

## Page 44

14-00000

SECRFT

• $

Roforonoose

• subjoot bolda U. 8. raasport

BURGT

---

