# 104-10336-10007

## Page 1

1704-10336-10007

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Ne CIAIR-08

ON

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

December 18, 1997

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

Mr. John Pereira

FELBASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

Chief

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re:

Status of CLA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board's Requests for

Additional Information and Records

Dear John:

I am writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious

concern about the status of CIA's responses to the Review Board's requests for

additional information and records. Although ClA has completed its responses to

several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of

requests have not been answered - including some that were made more than two

years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be

forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now

extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct

a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the

highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request

that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests

be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal

requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for

information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the

following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

'As identified more fully below, the issues are: CIA-1 Organizational Material,

CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03

HTLINGUAL Documents, CLA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CIA-IR-07 Claude

Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic "take" from Mexico City, CIA-IR-21 DRE

Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 "A" Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

BOARO MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermir !. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Mr. John Pereira

December 18, 1997

Page 7

Documents file: documents Nos. 496, 498, 499, 500, and 510. The Review Board

is awaiting confirmation that these documents are at HIRG for processing.

CLA-IR-05 Possible Foreign Source for Records on Oswald.

CIA was informally requested to use its contacts to pursue certain records

related to Oswald that were orally described to CIA. The Review Board

understands that the CLA has taken steps to pursue these records.

CIA-IR-06 QKENCHANT.

The Review Board seeks information regarding the purpose of QKENCHANT

and its connection with Clay Shaw, Howard Hunt, and Monroe Sullivan.

The Review Board was initially provided some information in regard to this

request that now appears to be incorrect. CLA is now seeking additional

information to correct or to clarify its previous answers. The Review Board seeks

an immediate, full, and accurate formal response to this request. Once the formal

statement is provided, this request will be complete.

**CIA-IR-07 Claude Barnes Capehart.

The ARRB staff has reviewed all records that CIA has been able to locate to date.

During the course of this review, additional questions were raised that ClA

agreed to pursue. CIA also agreed to conduct additional searches to determine

whether there may be additional retrievable records on Mr. Capehart. The

Review Board seeks a full and accurate formal response to this request. Once the

formal statement is provided, this request will be complete.

CIA-IR-08 Unredacted Copy of the "Family Jewels" Memoranda.

ARRB has reviewed a redacted version of the "Family Jewels." Additional

questions have been raised. At meeting between HRG, ARRB and the DCI/IRO

on December 11, 1997, specific redacted pages were identified for ARRB staff

review. These pages should be made available as soon as possible.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

• .

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

2 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Fredrick C. Wickham @ DO

Lee S. Strickland ® DA

(Mary Lou Cummings)

John F. Pereira

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer

OFFICE:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

OIM/HRP

ARRB Requests - Priorities

ARRB letter did 18 Dec 1997, Status of ARRB Request for Additional

Information

I have been advised by the ARRB staff that an updated "Status of Requests" letter will be sent to

the Agency early next week The following requests will be listed as priorities to be completed in

February::

CIA-14

Mexico City Station Annual Reports (DO)

CIA-IR-06 QKENCHANT

(DO)

CIA-IR-08 "Family Jewels"

(DCI/IRO and DO)

CIA-IR-09 George Bush

(DO, DA, DCI/IRO)

CIA-IR-11 Warren Commission Critics

(DA, DO)

CIA-IR-27 Security Files for Five Individuals,

(DA)

CIA-IR-32 AMWORLD

(DO).

I have partial responses to some of these requests; call me if you have questions or need the status of

your response.

CC:

(Eileen M. Wukitch @ DO

Becky L. Rant @ DA

Kathryn I. Dyer ® DA (bcc: Bonnie K. Hunter-Y-)

Sent on 2 February 1998 at 01:26:47 PM

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

-

---

## Page 4

13-00000

file ey

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

12 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Laura Denk

Executive Director, ARRB

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT:

IA-IR-8, Unredacted Copy of the "Famil

lewels" Memorandur

1. This is in response to referent request.

Materials responsive to the request were provided

for examination by ARRB staff.

From that examination, staff

members

selected a number of documents to be included within

the JFK Collection.

Those documents have now been included

within the JFK Collection and are being processed for

release to NARA.

3. This concludes the Agency's action on this request.

If you have any question, please advise.

---

