‘404-40170-10088 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992|

OV eet amar

ee

4 September 1962

i MEMORANDUM: Chief, Task Force W

SUBJECT : British Press Speculation that DRE Raiders may
have used British Territory as a Base

REFERENCE : DIR 32616 (OUT 70518)

This memorandum is for your information only, and

does not recommend action, Bits and pieces of infor-
mation have suddenly and recently appeared concerning
Cuban exile activity in the Bahamas, and of equally
sudden and recent probes by non-Cuban Bahamian resi-
dents, which may or may not mean something. I also
continue to be somewhat puzzled, as mentioned below,
by the unusual attitude of (Chief, “special Branch, >
Bahamian Polica,: with regard to the Anguila Island query.:

1, In response to a recent request from the London Station for
guidance in the event it is querie: jconcerning the DRE raid on fe
Cuba, mainly resulting from Bri speculation that the raiders may
liave used.a secret base in the Bahamas, the Station was informed that the
DRE, in a press conference of 25 August, said that the boats had sailed from
Marathon in the Florida keys, and that British territory apparently was not
involved. Also that the raid was launched without cur knowledge or support.

2, In addition, on 27 August 1962, the FBI informed Mr. Wallen that _
it had received an inquiry by way of its Miami field office from Mr.\ Gregg srege—06, ov
, Bentley, new-lie “Special Branch ia the Bahamas}~concerning his recent
investigation of a number of Cuban exiles on the island of Anguila who allegedly
told him they were there ona CIA mission, Mr. Bentley|claime be concerned 06
because he would.of course have to report the mai r hou,

lonial>24

Offic: but would very much dislike having to do this if it was’actually a CIA
operation, Mr, Wallen suggested that the Bureau might inform Mr, Bentley} 06
that the activity was definitely not Agency sponsored, but that we might get

in touch with him at Some point through! m this and similar problems. |

C/TFW, in being informed of this report, stated that he also had recently re-
ceived the same query from the fin Washington, D. C. iran
and had also:denied any Agency involvement. ie above was brought to London

. Station's attention with the comment that because of coincidence and logical
placement Anguila conceivably could have been used by the raiders as a staging

area and base, SECRET / GF —~ / 24 ee 2 G6 's
RETURN G0 $ only

Boot Reproduce



Page 2 H

3. It has since come to our attention that maritime operation PARROT
mounted by WAVE on 22 August involved a scheduled rendezvous on 'Anguila
key|between a WAVE asset. and.two UR internal officials, The operation
was unsuccessful in thatthe two UR officials failed to make the rendezvous
as scheduled. WAVE is now planning to rerun the operation on 30/3! August.

4, The above is being brought to your attention since our knowledge
of the use of Anguila as a rendezvous point may possibly cause some future
embarrassment if the (tiShshould learn of it and mistakenly associate
it with the activities exile group Investigated by. Mr. (Gentie y=

i)
5, Another development, at least peripherally involving the Bahamas,
is described below: -

a, The U. S. Coast Guard on 21 August 1962 inquired as
to any interest we might have in one W. Carney, who, in turn,
is interested in obtalning rights on the Island of Navassa.
Navassa was described as lying thirty miles due west of the
westernmost tip of Haiti, and is under Coast Guard adminis-
tration. According to TFW/PM we have looked into the island
and found it uninhabited---and possibly uninhabitable---with
no water or harbor facilities. CI/Liaison, at our instruction,
has informed the Coast Guard that we are not sponsoring Carney,
but probably had no objection, and would like more details,

b, Carney describes himself as a retired marine engineer,
who owns property in the Bahamas, and who takes out private
fishing parties, He wants to'usé Navassa as a private fishing
resort, a refueling station, and a watering point. The Coast
Guard has apparently reminded him that there is no water and
no harborage on Navassa, but he is still interested,

¢, The Coast Guard has an unmanned radio station on the
island. For some legal reasons they cannot sell, or even lease,
property on the island, but they could give Carney a five year
revocable permit, maintaining the right to inspect and approve
any construction,

SECRET



 SECheT

Page 3

d. The Coast Guard {s continuing to check into Carney, and
will probably give him the permission he Is seeking if they find
“nothing derogatory on him. Although Carney is a permanent
résident of the Bahamas, he also has a New York address which

1 ‘was given as 655 Pelham Parkway, North, Bronx 67, New York,

6. In addition, an Agency contact, a resident of the Bahamas, who.
travels extensively throughout the islands, recently reported that he had
"personally obsérved during a trip through the southern keys that several
of the keys which‘previously were uninhabited were now occupied by a
number of Cuban exiles, According to source, the[ Britis tish ities) |
apparently are puzzled as to their presence there ‘as to what to do
about it,

7, Much of the above indicates that a number of Cuban exiles are |;
showing up in remote areas of the Bahamas, and the tish\are no. doubt
concerned over their presence and possible CIA involvement. Mr. {Bentleyys_>
query concerning the grouv of exilés he allegedly investigated on Anguila 0

\\ Island emphasizes (Brit! rn: It also’sounds somewhat provocative
Ob.in that: Mr (Gentle; claims to hav thought it prudent, after having been
told-hv an unnamed Cuban exile leader that they were there.on a CIA mission,

_Rx

VICTOR WALLEN
C/TFW/CI

SECRET

~§(8h

