104-10103-10374) [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

20 December 1973
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt
1. I spoke with Fig Coleman about Hunt's assignment to Spain,

I had spoken with him back in August when we were inquiring into
reported activities involving Mrs. Hunt. 7

2. Coleman said that he got out of the War College in May 1964
(by which he fixed the time), and took over the Iberian desk. Bill
Ryan was C/EUR (or was it WE Division at the time). In early autumn
Ryan said that he had just been informed by the DDP (Karamessines)

that Hunt was to be assigned adridlas DCOS, as a directed assign-
. ment by Helms. A memo was prepared and sent to the COS,

{now retired). There was nothing further for about a mo; en Ryan
called Coleman in and showed him a RYBAT letter fro: stating
that Ambassador Stanley J. Woodward would not have Hunt in the

Embassy.

3. Woodward had been the Ambassador to Uruguay when Hunt
was COS Montevideo. He had a low opinion of Hunt and was counting
the days until Hunt left. The President of Uruguay visited President
Eisenhower in the States, at which time he requested a personal favor~-
that Hunt be reassigned to Montevideo. - So Hunt took another tour,
Woodward was outraged, and_had his revenge in 1964 when Hunt was
to be sent as DCOS to] Magzia, (

a ae

4, After a couple of months--early 1965--Ryan called Coleman
in and, observing that there was more than one way to skin a cat,
told him that Hunt was going to Spain under nonofficial cover. This
didn't require anything special, Ryan saying that he didn't know
much about it. It came to him from Karamessines on Helms! order. . Se
Hunt was to have the telephone number of the COS, but he would do is
nothing for the station. Hunt was to submit administrative vouchers
for reimbursement of his expenses and they were to be paid. Coleman
said he never saw Hunt before he went out. He knows that there was
no operational reporting, to indicate that Hunt was doing anything.

ackaro
Not Reps



The vouchers were not large, although the documentation was poor,
Coleman raised the question with Ryan about his signing off, and
Ryan said he could talk to Karamessines if he wished. Because
Goleman had a close personal association with Karamessines he

did just that. He was told by Karamessines that he didn't know much
about it either--'Helms said send him out."' He was instructed to go
ahead.

5. In early July 1966 (4 July) Coleman went to Madrid. He
had a ten day turnover wit! Hunt had already gone and
he did not see him. ‘said he didn't know what Hunt did, but
that Coleman need not worry because he was gone.

6. Several months ago] was at a seminar at which
Ambassador Woodward was also present. At the time he asked
about Hunt. Woodward said it might still be dragged into the press.
Tad Szulc had been after Woodward about the Hunt assignment to
Spain. Coleman observed that Szulc did have a long article on Hunt
in the New York Times, and the Spain assignment was mentioned, Ee
but without any conclusions as to its sigificance. aii

7. Coleman said the RYBAT file of C/EUR may have something on
the event, but not much. A letter out and the reply, but not much more.

S. D. Breckinridge

