# 104-10128-10363

## Page 1

•1580000

104-10128-10363)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SEP 2 5 1865

Chilrman. Hosor Awards soard

Acting secusity striDor. HAB

HONOT ATITES HOCOTTIENdAtIONS

Rel: Marco for Charmas, HAB did 12 Sop 56 ISDEA MI. Lobert ll. Gayaas •

Subjart: Approval of Funding Heaor Awards locomandatton

1. Reference memo requested that the ducting securtity

ANTISOT 8O tLA HAS reNteW the cases contataed therein to dotersatso

If the citations and awards, mhas proderod, may se retaiued by the

recidents. With respoct to this reguost, the followiad recommendations

ate submalled

a. Recommondation by the Securty Alrther to tha

HAB that awards and citalions should not ba phyulcaly

released lato the rocipient's personli cablody ico

IN BUCh CARDS thERE MiLl De no sacarity abjections to

notllytag the tadiridual that he had been awarded the medal.

such nottflestion should taform the raciplent of aay

appropriate soesrity restrictions relating to the amard.

(1) First Presentations Roger Colran.

(Gearge h. Carrally Joseph C. Goodels, (Charlos 03

T. E.. Babasnone! There would be no securtty ob-

joctions to giving the citation and amaré isto thels

personal custody subjoci to paragraph la abora.

Horever, with respect to MI. Goodwa, 1$ 16

recorrended that upon his xotura PCS to the utator.

blo cave be severed for possible securtsy and cover.

implications belore phyalcally relnastag lato sla

InToxInal concurrence of the Deputy Chiel, NEA

Diviaios. The Deputy Chiel, IT Divlates Informally

coneurred in tho above regarding MI. Dahamon.

03

RETURN TO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

6/ps

---

## Page 2

14-00000

40696

SUBJECI: Honor Awards Recommandations

03

(a). Socond Press

sations' Earl Ado Martara

(rhodore S. Rowsos. The Depaty Chiel, 3F Dirlalon

on 21 Soptember 1956 secemanded lalarmanlly that

Lor operational reasons the maitar of giving the

sitations and amanda into their pareraal custody

Do deterested as sosse latas date.

03

(3) Third Presentation: John I. Shirloye!

(James W. Lal) Rocommondadon

centalaod ta paragraph la ebovo, 03

LEnno B. Melbiag Henry D. Lockabe, Devid A.

P11l1R1. Noster D. Sanchis, Chastes W. Faci. 03

There would be no cocsitty abjectiose to girtas

these establens nod awards into thats personal

custody subject so paragraph la above and curtata

stipulations as presentood balow by the Divinion

concerned.

(8) Ibe Depaty Chief, WH Dirision

Informally reconsmended on 81 September 1956

trat tha citations partating to the above

persons aboule be marked "CLA biternal

Lise Only", (It la noted that the projoct wish

which these awardo are concesned tas within

the juriesletion of tho MA Dtulatan.

(b) The Deputy Chief, VH1 Dirtaton

abno stated that MT. Philllps to now wedar

not-ofticial cover and he faformally requested

that the citaties and award not be phyatcally.

«leaned tute Mr. Phillips' personal enstody

whilo he la nader such cover and also requested

thes tha rettos be reviewed as basas batar date.

(0) Rogerding bI. SAnchor, tao Deputy

Chief. NEA Informally requestad that eleco

MT. SATCHES TAS DUL DI ILA SSALEN DES fUI

8/1V

---

## Page 3

1400000

SUBJECT: Honor Awasdo Recommendation

thst Divtslen, shas fer sacutly and coros rassona

Bes mattes of physices salbase of boda cho

stration and avard to Me. Sancher'a parsonal

custody ho conaldered upan ble rebura FCS tO

the statos.

(d) Regarding Ir, Lecter) a Core

amicallons employee, the Depaty Chief.

Communications Diristen lafor mally asated

on I1 septomber 1956 that for securtiy and

Forer sontons dur ansiter ol phyalenl polarme

DI BOLA BIS CHASION INL AWANE SO TT. LA+IO81 0]

peIsonal custody be consiusrad upar bía.

PETITA POS to the States.

(0) The Depety Chlol, WH DIrtsdon

informaly rEcommenied on 21 sostamtes

1956 that hir. Bobble, be battfind al his award

but netterr the cliation es anard ba phyalcally

deltverod tuto bis parsonal custody.

Rocammendatios contained ta paragraph la abere

ef she Offico al Baute intolligente roquestad that

*his citation be marked "CLA Irernki las Oaly".

insi 16) 813h fresentation Castraro sasqui.

Retomainendation contained te

paragraph la asone.

03 (8) 50renth Probentallons Philla G. Boer,

Laal o]

Ge. Mobse!, Marguerke Merigolda Rocammendation

sentained la paragraph la aboro except thas la the

CaRe al MiT, DoTes, Caloral Soberg al the Office of

Banto hinlligence roquested that tais citattos be

marted "CLA laternal Use CAly".

eiben i

13/54

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SUBJECI: Henor Avardo Bocommendations

03. 18) 123

santation: Manfard D. Jaga

Rocommendatien sentatned la peregrapa la sout

bosevar, rogarding dr. Frye, the snotra Offtess.

E's intermally areted on 31 Septombor 1956 chet Cho

conditiona ss bet lotta in santo for Caaltmas, FlAS

(Sabject: (Fsyo, Eanford D] - Becominsadation for

Intelligance hostel of Merit) loan Socurity lotulber.

HAB, stod 7 fuse 1956, und not changed. La vlon

of tils, he informally regucated that he physterl

selenos el. the cilation end award Into she persozal

castedy of Air. Enye)nes to snada et tata timo.

03

(9) Niath Presentation: Willlem B. Mart

SOGurtly Adriaos, HAB tA blo 500320 el & Juse 8856

with respact to tha lestanta ol tate suard la canitricod.

2. In addition to its above, the matter of pallictry segaretag

thEse awards da pointed out.

Distributton:

08tz. & 1 - 4030.

31 - 08 Elles!

1 • ES/OS IDleS

1 • Chrono

PS/PS: WAH:akh

---

