# 104-10178-10061

## Page 1

1-0000

104-10178-10061

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

GASSMSATION

PRANSMITIA

08

TOCS IMFORMATION REPORE

054

SECRET

cHo.

UAJIT

eA8.

DATE

POUTING

WYC IN/RE

3547

& July 196.

MI:€ 11

INFORMATION ESPrES

TDCS D8-315/02278-65

CI, OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, IN, CA 2, CA/PEG, DO H, TE 1, TH 12

BATT DISTIANTRE

6 July 1965

DISSEMINATION

WHE/RE

WHE/RS

WHEEL

WHC

C/OS

3 CHC/SIL

14H/2/G

2. LANTZH

MC/WATE

2WH/1/R

WHC/EA

BARRA

WHC/CAMPPIWE/S/R

WE/MADRL

I NEXT 212

ARALY

NAVY

PRECROENCI

XI TOUTAT

BASES ON FRE IR, MON

NAVE-3559

(IN-01498)

UFG-7328 01

NP (ANCLEYS- 15)

L1a1s0a,°

I VALUATION

REQUEST:

STATE

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

ARR

CONTROLLED DISSEN

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSINTrATION

15.0o m-8

SECRET 5S

PANIM TRIED DO

экои я руногя кочкога

COORDINATING OFFICER (3)

NH/2/G/R/Carol Ann Jones (by "phone)

ALASING gHIKER

C/WH/C/RR

COPY

NO

.. ...

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

5/BR

---

## Page 2

4-00000

is 3001

• CONHUENTIAL

татого тинв lad

sar tra

CONTROLLED DISSEN

• ROUTINE

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTRIRIONNCY AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA/GUATEMALA

DATE OF 30 JUNE 1965

ATO

TDCS DB-315/02278-65

DISTR 6 JULY 1965

SUBJECT

PLANS OF ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU TO UNDERTARE

SMALL OPERATIONS IN GUATEMALA

PLACE &

DATE ACO UNITED STATES, MIAMI (1 JULY 1965)

RE.

804494

HELD REPORT NA. UFG-?328

PRAISAL A CUBAN REFUGEE WHO HAS MANY CONTACTS AMONG CUBAN EXILE ACTIVISTS

REVIOUS REPORTING FROM THE REFUGEE HAS PROVES TO BE FAIRLY RELIABLI

THIS INFORHATION WAS OBTAINED FROM LUIS SIERRA LOPEZ. .

05

1. ' FIELO COMMENT: ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU, GUATEMALAN MILLIONAIRE

LIVING IN MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA, HAD RECRUITED CUBAN EXILES IN

THE MIAMI AREA WITH THE INTENTION OF TRANSPORTING THEM IN A. B-25 TO

MEXICO; TRAINING THEM, AND INFILTRATING THEM INTO GUATEMALA IN AN

ATTEMPT TO OVERTHROW THE GOVERNMENT OF ENRIQUE PERALTA AZURDIA.

HOWEVER, ON 4 MAY 1965, ALEJOS AND LUIS SIERRA LOPEZ, MILITARY

LEADER OF THE CUBAN EXILES, HAD BEEN APPREHENDED AND THEIR ARMS

CACHES SEIZED BY UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.:;

2. ON 38 JUNE :: LUIS SIERRA LOPEZ SAID THAT HE WAS TRYING

probibited by Late.

CONFIDENTIAL

STATUER DU

ACHY/ACS MANY

SACOR NSA

NK XY

CIA/NHCC

BORDER PATROL: CUSTOYS

CONTROLLED DISSEN

COAST GUARD

" Dee 00 781

INS

j/BR

---

## Page 3

• CONTROLLED DISSEN

8070 1 6091

IN £4494

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCSDB-

PAOE

315102278-65

TO LOCATE THE WHEREABOUTS OF ONE SILENCER FOR AN M-3 SUEMACHINE GUN,

ONE OF FOUR SILENCERS THAT WERE DELIVEREO TO ROBERTO ALEJAS ARZU'S

GACUP AFTER ITS CACHE OF WEAPONS HAD BEEN SEIZEO BY UNITED STATES.

GUVERNMENT OFFICIALS IN EARLY MAY, WHEN ASKED WHY HE NEEDED THE

SILENCERS, SIERRA SAID THAT ALEJOS DID NOT TRUST THE GUATEMALAN

GOVERNMENT CONCERNING THE PROPOSED HOLDING OF ELECTIONS ON 15 :.

SEPTENDER 1965. SIERRA SAID THAT HE HAD TALKED TO. A MAN FROM'GUATEMALA

EARLIER IN THE DAY AÑO THAT THE FOUR SILENCERS THAT, SIERRA MAD IN HIS

POSSESSION WOULD BE SENT TO GUATEMALA.

3. SIERRA REVEALED THAT ALEJOS PLANS TO UNDERTAKE SMALL •

OPERATIONS WITHIN GUATEMALA AND . ... TO USE ONLY TWO OR THREE MEN

TO ACCOMPLISH THESE MISSIONS. HE SAID THAT ALEJOS WOULD NOT BE ..

NEEDING ANY HEAVY ARMS TO CARRY OUT HIS PLANS.

4. SIERRA MENTIONED THAT ONE OF THE MEN WHOM HE HAD MET DURING

HIS TRIP TO GUATEMALA IN LATE APRIL AND EARLY MAY, AN AIR FORCE

'"::

OFFICER, TOLD SIERRA THAT ALEJOS WOULD NOT HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT THE ....

GUATEMALAN AIR FORCE JETS BECAUSE THEY WERE LIGHTLY ARMED AND THEIR ....

PILOTS WERE POORLY TRAINED. HOWEVER, THE OFFICER ADVISED SIERRA

THAT THE PROPELLER-DRIVEN AIRCRAFT WOULD INDEED BE A THREAT BECAUSE

THEY WERE HEAVILY ARMED AND WERE FLOWN BY WELL-TRAINED PILOTS.

• THE OFFICER THEN PROPOSED TO SIERRA. THAT HE (THE OFFICER) BE NOTIFIED

OF THE DATE OF ALEJOS PLANNED COUP ATTEMPT SO THAT HE COULD ENTERTAIN

SOME OF THE PILOTS AT HIS HOME ON THE NIGHT PRECEDING THE OPERATIÓN.

HE SAIO THAT AFTER A FEW HOURS OF"PARTYING; THE PILOTS WOULD BE RIPE

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

## Page 4

14-00000

-

CONTROLLED DISSEN

CONFIDENTIAL

TDC8 DB-

315/02278-65

FOR CAPTURE.

S. FIELO DISSEME CINESO, CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

_OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, I&NS, BORDER PATROL, FAA, AND USCGO (ALSO

SENT PANAMA CITY, (GUATEMALA CITY,

• AND MEXICO CITY.)

16-7

16-2.

no 1-D0 1da

IN 84494

PAOE 3

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

CONTROLLED DISSEN

2/3R

---

