# 104-10104-10417

## Page 1

104-10104-10417

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

GIETURN TO CIA

9 May 1968

SUBJECT!

WOOD, W1l11am Clarence, Jr.

aLa BOXLEX, W12110n

In December 1944 William Clarence WOOD, Jr. vas security approved

for oss employment to be used overseas in a writing/publishing assigument.

However, he was assigned to combat infantry duties in the Southwest

Pacific Area and was not used by 033.

Of interest 1n his file at this

time are memoranda recording a visit ho made to the Honolulu Office

of OSS In February 1945 In which he told the office how he had been.

recruited by Oss while attending infantry school at Fort Benning In

October 1944, that his services were to be used in originating and

conducting radio programe in the CBI theater, that when he did not hear

from O35, he made cortain inquirics and lound that his record had been

carefully Investigated by Dunn and Bradstreet; that he then made a long

distance call to 039 Personnel Procurement Office.. He was told that

temporarily the OSs was not 10 a position to avail themselves of his

services but he was to keep in touch.

The Interviewing officer in

OSS Headquarters with a comment to note the Dunn and Bradstreet leak and

that subject certainly knew more about the inside of oss than any potential

recrult he ever sau and Subject had never been in Washington.

02

on 13 December 1950 subject was granted a Covert security Clearance

for use as a Staff Agent with Project IPPOCUS. He was assigned to the

(Island of Saipana Chief Instructor of Clandestine Operations.

reported for duty 8 January 1951 and arrived overseas 12 March 1951.

In May 1951 h18 dependents were isoued travel clearances to Join him at

"Subject suffered a nervoun breakdown in March 1052

and was returned to Headquartors, Washington for medical observation.

Examination by the Medical Office In April 1952 concluded that Subject's

breakdown was caused by fantly trouble and overindulgence in alcohol. The

Medical Office recommended that he should not attempt any extreme covert

work but should only accept either light semi-covert or overt duties with

a probationary period of one year, these duties to be performed within

the continental limits of the United States. Subject was assigned to

OIR as an instructor in the Operations Course in May 1952 and reconmended

for conversion to staff status after a four-month probationary pariod.

This tronafer was security approved in October 1952 and he received h1e

appointment an a GS-11 Training Instructor with OIR (Operations Training

Branch).

In December 1952 he was found by an Agency guard lying on a sidewalk

near Temporary Eye Building teeding from the mouth. There was no evidence

of foul play and he was taken to Emergency Hospital at his own reguest.

SECRET

Excluded from autenaile

doungrading and

declassilication

3/00

---

## Page 2

• •:

I' January 1953 when he failed to report for duty, representatives

from the Medical Office and Security went to his residence at the Lafayette

Hotel where they found Subject under the Influence of alcohol. He was

requested to report for duty the next days however, a house doctor at the

Lafayette Hotel had him removed to Callinger Hospital for Intoxication

the next day after a maid found him in a state which she thought was

1110088. He was released to the 5th Precinct Police and charged with

drunkenness. A Security Officer obtained his release.

Subject resigned 27 January 1953 after an interview by a Security

representative on 19 January 1953 at which time his resignation was

requested.

On 11 July 1953 Subject called the Security Office collect from

Dallas, Texas stating he was to have a brain operation on 13 July 1953

at Baylor Hospital In Dallas, Texas and he wanted to know 1f an Agency

representative could be there. Instructions were givon to the OS Chicago

Field Office by Headquarters Security to have a representative contact

the head of Baylor Hospital at Dallas, Texas and advise him that Subject

had had access to highly classified Information In which the Government

had an interest; he had a history of becoming talkative under anesthesia and

that personnel in the operating room during the course of the operation

should be cautioned not to disclose any information divulged by subjoct

while under anesthesia.

Mr. David HIll, Administrator of Baylor Unlversity

Hospital, agreed to cooperate.

Subject was put under sodium pentothol,

a spinal tap and x-rays were made but no brain operation was required.

A confidential Informant advised that Subject made the following remarks

In hig hospital room after returning from the operating rooms He "had

Berved overseas with the CIA and had seen many people killed. The CIA

are a bunch of dirty cut-throats and I wouldn't be a bit surprised 1f

they sent one of their men to out mine. they think they are smart but

one of these days in the near future I will show them who is the smartest.

They have about 100 GS-14's walking around with their heads shaped 11ke

eggs. ... I have been a fallure but ufter I get well I am going to go

back to

school and get my degree and fight the CIA with everything that

An FBI report of an Internal Security character dated 30 Apr11 1957

from Dallas, Texas reported that Subject telephoned long distance from

Midlaad, Texas to a Chinese Intelligence officer in Formosa claiming to

have been formerly employed by CIA. Subject offered to "help you with

things I know". Then Subject called a person in Lubbock, Texas believed

for Chiang KAI-CHEK In Formosa and that she and the baby will receive

$700 - $1,000 per month "If this thing goes through". Subject was Identified

In the report as formerly employed by various newspaperos a world traveler

and formerly employed by CIA.

Domestic Contact Service requested clearance to use Subject 1n

February 2957 reporting that he had not had a drink in nine jears. On

3) 1122201

---

## Page 3

3 March 1967 Information from the FBI report and Information that Subject

was drinking heavily again was forwarded to DeS for their evaluation 1n

determining the extent and level of their use of Subject. Attached meno'

from DIS dated 26 April 1968 reports that after receipt of this adverse

Information Subject was dropped by DOS as a potential source.

Bio data: dated 9 January 1967 reveals that Subject, born 17 August

1920 at Shreveport, Loulsiana, resided at 724 International, Apt. FR 9,

Houston, Texas. At that tlme he was employed as Executive Vice President,

Houston Tribuna Publiehing Company, Houston, Texas. In 1954 he was

employed by Charles B. ROTH and associates.

In 1950 he worked for the

DENVER POST. His father, Willian Clarence WOOD, Sr., 18 & banker at

Inibbook, Texas (Jubbock Nettonal Benk) and 18 vell-tondo.

Paul ROTHIRMEL

, Security Officer for Hunt 011 Company, who was the

person approached by Subject recently for Information on CIA operations

for JIm GARRISON, and who reported the visit to the Houston DCS Office,

18 a former FBI agent who vas considered as a prospective recruit as

& Confidential Correspondent in March 1959.

Os Indices were negative on Clymer WRIGHT and Harold A. PYLl mentioned

In attached memorandum from Houston DOS office did 26 April 1968.

Bee attached summary on William BOXLEY.

sauger

---

