‘o4-10331 -10056)
7 EB

[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

0GC-95-50359
10 February 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: | e

ERG

FROM: Gamat D;~ Parker]
Paralegal Specialist

DCI/OGC/LD
SUBJECT: Search request for Lawrence P, Keenan

REFERENCE: Keenan v. DOJ and Cra,
Privacy Act request P92-1739
ore
1. Attached is a letter from James Lesix addressed to
the Assistant United States Attorney regarding the above
referenced case.

Background: Lawrence P. Keenan states that on or
puerta dune 1951, he completed a series of CIA application
forma for employment. Mr. Keenan was interviewed at length
as a prospective CIA employee. At’ the conclusion of the
interviews, Mr. Keenan and the CIA officer who conducted the
interview were unable to reach agreement on a starting
salary, as the CIA's offer was too low for Keenan. Based on
the CIA's interest in the Plaintiff as a prospective
employee, the Plaintiff assumes CIA would have retained
records reflecting this information.

3. Action requested: Please search for any and all
records pertaining to Mr. lawrence P. Keenan. The attached
information may assist you on the records search. Because
this case is in Litigation, OGC would like a brief written
statement that states that HRG has performed a “reasonable
and thorough records search" that supports the above
referenced case.

4. Your expeditious handling of this mattex would be
greatly appreciated. If you have any questions regarding
this information, please contact me on secure 76115.

Pamela Parker

Attachment as stated


13-00000

James H. Ltgar

ATTORNEY AT LAW
918 F STREET, N.W., ROOM Som
WA@HINGTON. 0.¢, 20004

TeLapnons (202) Aas192)

Rec'd Feb'S 188"

January 27, 1995

Kirsten Moncada

attorney-Advisor - a
Offica of Information & Privacy 5
Room 7238 we a

U.S. Department of Justice itd
Washington, D.¢. 20530

Re: Civil Action Ne. 94-1909; es
pent ¢ Justd t a2 oie

Dear Kireten:

The CIA has, through you, suggested that it might conduct
additional searches for records pertaining to ny client, Mr.
Lavrance P. Keenan, if Mr. Keenian furnished additional information
which cnabled it to conduct such searches. Although Mr. Keenan be-
lieves that the information which he initially furnished the CIA
was sufficient to have located some records pertaining to hin, he
is providing the following additional information in hopes. that. the
GIA will now be able to locate respansive records.

Mx. Keenan states that on or abont June 1951, he completed & a
series of CIA application forms for employment. At that time, he
resided in ‘the 6 1600 block of Connecticut Avenue, N.W. Mr. Keenan
was encouraged to aubmit these applications by two CIA women em-
Ployees who resided at the same location.

After Keenan completed these applications, he was interviewed

Gees Ve tae ones ix eit At the conslusion of”

Keenan and the CIA officar who coriducted the interv:

were unable to reach agreement on a starting salary, as thé CIA’s

offer was too low for Keenan. Sascad on the CIA’s interest in

Keenan as a prospective employee, it is clear that at a minimum, it
should have a 201:,file on Keenan.

For six years Keenan was an FBI Supervisor. For six and a
half years he was Foreign Assistance Inspector in Southeast Asia.
During these periods he had frequent contact with CIA represente—-
tives in investigative matters of mutual interest. Because of
this, there should be numerous references to Keenan in CIA files..

As an FBI supervisor, Keenan played a role in the FBI’s inves—
tigation into the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. This
is evidenced by the following documents:

Pye 7 . , : : rseiirieewaieeal
SEB 1, YS “aa: SPH LBCOVERMPER at oow, P.3ia Moos


13-00000
O2/U8E84q 145" Ga:3dT USOMERERT «=. DOT -OIP P.471e ‘aoos
«i? é 2
1. WNovembexr 25, 1963 cable form Ambassador Thomas Mann to
the Department of State;

2. Noevemher 26, 1963 cables from CIA Mexico City Station
Chief Winfield Scott; e

3. Ambassador Mann’a memorandum of telephone conversation
December 3, 1963;

7 «. tegat Clark Anderson’s Jamiary &, 1964, Memorandum to
Filer :

5. dune 5, 1965 Brannigan te Sullivan memorandum. ~
Copies of these documents are attached berato..
I @ that this information will assist the CIA Cin earrying

now carry: Gut the searches which should saviier have been nade.
and should ‘have located responsive documents. _

Sincerely yours,
