# 104-10113-10059

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10113-10059

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INTEHVIEW PROCESSING SHEET

SECURITY INEORMATION

Subject: COMELN

Lucien

Advice rocaived

#5035

ROUTING

Mu Hala

reveals that the subjact person is scheduied

for oversees trevol as indicated belor -

Departure

Tito t

Deto 15 Nox 195/

Grade

Тразою, 4.5 0т

Ofrico &

att he tho

at sunsi

Division

FAM, OSO

Passport

Cover

Arm

Service Passpor

уро в 10. Для рд 3 0

Ro turn

Dato Plant.

0Y 1952

PRELIA NARY PROCESSING

rovioN of thie ilo and the above information reveals:

Ila spoolal briofing toplos

Sea balon

¿recini cover problons

See below

ito spucial dobriefings by owier

equires debriefisgs un (as cirabd)

SI & CRYPT

No spocial badgos or crodentials or !

SeS rONarKS

REMARKS

Subject stated that Douglass newilt Bazata who left OSS in 1915 is living with tike

Baron and Baroness Mum in their castle in Johannesburg Germany. Bazata, who is without

visible means of support travels in France, Belgium, Switzerland, Spain and Germanyver)

INTERVIET - O the indicated dnto subjoot uns interried on the following poilts:

2.

3.

4.

7.

8.

jocurity regulations in gororal.

Travel Precautions (to carry nothing identifying him with CIA).

Cover story (nature of cover; adoquacy of prior briefings possibility of

Inconsistencies; briefing of spouse).

Personal Affairs (proper handling of bank account, orodit accounts, forward-

Ang of mail).

Personal Correspondence (no mention of CIA in lettors to and from subjoct)

Personal Conduot (a. general good behavior, b. no black market or currency

trensactions, c. no undue ouriosity In natives in his ares, d. no attempts

to approach or identify other CIA persornel in area except for official

business and througn official chamels).

Other Iravel (only official travel in or through Soviet oontrollod aroas).

Othor:

ACTION

MV Security briefing by the undersigned

complotos action nocessary in this case.

/ Tho following were obtained from

subject and forwarded appropriately

for disposition.

SECRET

Subject was reforred to the fcllow-

ing for the indicated addtional

briefing?

Subject was permitted to rotain tho

will be left with Mus. Henne's

zipl

---

