# 104-10121-10001

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10121-10001

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1. 114830

CLASSIFY WHEN FILLED IN

DATE

- REQUES

¡submit in duplisa?

TO

"POR APPROVAL OF LIAISON

one will be returned to requester)

Employee Activity Branch, PSD/OS

CONFIDENTIAL

23 February 1973

#628330

SUBJECT:

Request for Security Approval of Liaison

on a continuing basis

one-time basis

CIA EMPLOYEES

NAME

NAME

NAME

03

William Mather

03

Margaret Lovejoy)

Charles Campbell

NAME

EXT.

OFFICE

2993

EXT.

OFFICE

2993

EXT.

OFFICE

2993

EXT.

OFFICE

DCS

DCS

NON-CIA EMPLOYEES

NAME (Last-First-Middle)

TITLE OR SRI DON

Dorothe MrS.

RANK

DCS

A55660

ORGANIZATION Department of the Army

Office of the Asst. Chief of

BUSINESS

ADDRStaff for Intelligence

Operations for Collection

, LAISON

EXT.

OFFICE

DATE

OF

BIRTH

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF LIAISON, COMMENTS, KNOWN BIOGRAPHICAL AND CLEARANCE INFORMATION

Subject will be contacted relative to the foreign materiel program.

TOP SECRET

OFFICE/DIVISION/STAFF

DCS/Services Division

ROOM/BLDG/EXT.

ROOM 812, Key Building

CLEARANCE

1 ganP feuet

DATE GRANTED

BASIS

DATE CERTIFIED

LIAISON

628.330

FORM

8.67

123 fil

oMs.

PREVIOUS

CLASSIFICATION OF MATTER TO BE DISCUSSED

XI SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE

Anna C. Redomand

ANNE C. REDMAN

Ext 2738

FOR OFFICE OF SECURITY USE

Security approval is granted for contact at the

security classification level indicated. This approval

does not waive any limitations or other requirements for

authorization in connection with disclosure of class-

ified or controlled information which are contained in

Agency regulations or other directives.

Security approval for liaison contact expires three

years from date of issuance or whenever the representa-

tive of the other agency or department ceases to perform

the duties incident to which the security approval was

given, whichever occurs first.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

2 much 19713

DATE

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

03

sheltering.

CHIEF, PERSONNEL SECURITY

CLASSIFY WHEN FILLED IN

GROUP

CONFIDENTIAL

!Encluded from Duror

3

downgrading and

(11)

---

