# 104-10115-10090

## Page 1

104-10115-10090l.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ULUNLI •

17 Hay 1968

MEMORANDIM FORE

SUB IBCAS

REFERENCE

ssistant to the Direct

tt, Joseph C. Goodvin

woos, willem clarence, de, aba BOKS,

villa

Memo for DCI did 19 Jan 1968 Fran Asste to the Deli

(Ht. Goodrin) • Subject!

contacto ilth Representatives

of Publie Medie

as WOOD vatel appeare in 05 recorde.

aul ?. Gaynor

21er, Security Research Stast/a

Att. as stated

SECRET

6B00 1 -

Excloded sun satani

downgrading 8ut

declassilicatisa.

RETURN TO CIA:

Background Use Only.

•Do Not Reproduce

115.

---

## Page 2

SECRE!

9 lay 1968

MEMORANDIAL FORE

BUBJECTI

ahsef, Lron/6R3/os

the attached stuary Millen Clarence HOOD, See bay be of interat

to fir. doodula,

hist. to the Del, and ir. Hartmen of cI stair sho initial

sed an interest in the resulta of en os ladices searca on "Willien BOrLEY

The attached original copy of summary la for "The Carrison Cose" fle

and was prepared for the informetion of the Director of security la rathe

complete detail of os methode at the time.

modisted vorsione

Barab B. Ball

5aS/03

Atts, As Stated

Escluded tram asicmalle

disagradiag and

declassfis.tlon:

SECRET

---

## Page 3

8 May 1969

SUBJECT

FOOD, Hilltem Clarence,

eka WOOD, B121'1

LIBOATIONE

3111 HOOD; who bao been

1dentified an'willten Clarenc

WOOD; Jro, recently made ine

quirles about cIA and 1t8

operations as beball of jin

GARRISON at the funt 01l Compens

Dallas, Texas,: Hop vent to

VOTE POT CÁFRISON using the

NO "B1L1' BOXLEY"

CIA CORNECTICH

ApplIcant for OSs In 1944-h5

Staff Agent In Saipon, January 1951.

Retürned to U. 3. for nervous S

breakdows, Barch 1952. Approved for

Interest la March 1967 but not neede

DCS Memo Ata 26 AprIl

fron Houston Office (80U-00-63)|

B111 WOOD,

Agent for

FIN GARRISON Mallo

& MOUTIes

In pallas

Rever of subject'i overt end covert recurity files presente the is

following chradolos of hie employment hletory with the Agency

In Decenter 1944 Bubject was security approved for Oss employment to ber

used overseas in a writing/publishing assigament..

However, he vas s

essigned to combat intentry duties In the Southwest Pacife Ares end vee

not used by 0ss. Of interest in his file at this tine are menoranda

recoraing a visit he made to the Honolulu Office of OS9 1a February 1945

In sinich no tali the oriice nor se had been recruited by los taila:

attending Infantry school at Fort benning In October 19441 that 418

services were to be ußed 1n ortginating and conducting railo programs iu

the CBI thester, that when he ald not hear from OSS, be mare certain..

Inquiles and foind that his record had been very carefully Investigated

by Duns end Bradstreets that he then made a long distance call to oss

Personel Procurement Office:

He as told that temporarily the 038

EGRET

Exciuded iron zusmatic

duangrading and

decle: alicatioa

---

## Page 4

SECRET

vas not so a position to evell thencelves of bie services but he vas ta

Keep in touch.

or a rose the solute defie a header er rest repeat o

note the Dunn and Bradstreet Leak and thit subject certafnly knew nore

about the Inside of oss than any potential recruit he ever sau and

subject had never been in Vashingtouy

on 19 sociabe 150 subject tes

Covert security Clearines

Island of saipan as Chief Instructor of C

nd time Operations.

assigned to thie

/ Be, reported

for duty 8 Jenuary 1951 and artlyed overteas 22

Bese':, Subject suffered a nervous breakdova in Jarch 1952 and vaa retu

to Headquarters, Washlagton for medical observatica. T

only accept either light semi-povert or overt autler for a probationar

period of one year, these dutten to be performed vithin the continental.

Lints of the Unsted Stätes., Bubject was asstened to OIR is an instructor

In the Operetions Court in My 1952 and recommended for converalon, to

staff statue after a four month probationary period. Thie trensfer was

socurity approved la Detober 1952 end be recelyed his appointment to a

CS-11 fratning astrator with one foretons mine ene

In Decenber 2952 he vas found by an Aseney guard lyine ca a sidewalk

near Temporary Eye Bustaing bleeding from the mouther There, was no evidence

os foul play and be vas taken to Emergeboy Hospital'at his on requested

note ted to the one sady a der to ure, in do ta i he

Lopeyetto lotel had bin renoved to Callinger Hospital for Intolcations

the next day after a said round hin in a state which ahe thought vas 11hest,

He was released to the 5th Precinet Police and charged with drunkennese.

A Security Officer obtained his release.

subject resigned 27 January 1953 after an interyler by & Security

representetive on 19 Jonuary 1953 at which time his resignation vas requested.

On 11 July 1953 Subject called the Security Office collect from Dallas,

Texas stating bé vas to have a brain operation on 13 July 1953 at Baylon.

Hospital in Dallas, Texas and be wanted to know 11 en Agency representative

could be there.

Instructions vere given to the Os Chlcago feld Ottice'a??

by the Deputy Director of Security to have a representative contact the head of

Bsylor Hospital at Dallas, Texas and advise him that Sübject had had access

to highly clessified Information in which the coverament had an interests.

he had a history of becoming talkative under anesthesia and fast personnel.

In the operating room during the course of the operation should be cautioned

not to disclose sny informatlon divulged by Subject walle under anestherla.

SEBALI

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Clerence WOOD; Jr, during the time he voald be inder the anesthetse in

3

be operating rown on 23 July 19539 MI. BIIT NES Yery cooperative:

MAKEPTELDaleo receIved permiesion fron subject'd doctar, Dr. Albert

she Ili'st vards of subfect when be say bla doctdr

be operation? DI D'ERRICO nsvered "no" to this question. Subjeci

an put under sodiin pestothol so a spinal tap and x-rays could be made.

brain oporation tras required.

gent WARFiELD] using the preudo, Des

• was in subfect

rooni when be recovered fron the ertects of

meetbetie.

sabject?

father taé also tbere... (Gabject's father,

vill en Clarence $00D, Bro

served overgens vito the CIA and bad seen miny people killed. Ine CLA

are a banch of dirty cut-throats end"I wouldn't be a bit surprised i

they sent one of their ben to cut wine. They think they are smurt but

ama te the day be ve done 20 cour a vang ted vida her heads

shaped like Eggs.

Deddy, I have bees such a fallüre but after I get vell

¡ en golas to go back to school end get ly degree and tight the CIA vita

everything that i can. i

of a enestbette, be vould most Ilkely talk when he vas under the Influence

An FBI report of an Internal Security character dated 30 Aprii 1957

from Dallas, Texas reported that subject telephoned long distence from

Malend, Texas to & Chinese Intelligence officer In Formost claiming to

have been fornerly employed by CIA.

subject offered to "belp you withi

things I know".

Bubject then called & person in Lubbock, Texas belleved to

be his tife.

de told her be had talked vita tbe Chief of Intelligenco

for Chiang KAI-CHIK In Forsose end that she sad the baby will receive:

$700 - $1,000 per month "If this thing goes through"

subject was Identified

SECRET

---

## Page 6

In the report as formerly employed by various seuspaperes a vorld traveler

and formerly employed by CIA

3 March 1967 Information fron the FBI report and Infornation that Subject

dated 26 April 1968 reports tbat afted recelpt of told adverse inforsation,

subject has dropped by DCS es a potential source.

2920 at Bureve

Houston, texsse

In 1954 be 198

In 1950 be vorked for the

DENVER POST.

Panl ROTHERE, Security Officer for Bunt OL1 Compeny who ver the

1s & former FBI agente

Voted a Rotingly Paul Mi,

J, 3 EBIi: 1950-558 Ress 9104 Lensiãe

Dal 208, toxin) Dipl Fleld Rep., 700 Hercinttle Bent Eldei, Delles 1o Jee

So other Inforustion 1o given.

os lodices vere negatire on Clyner WRIGHT and farolA&. PILl mentsoned

In Source nemorender

DETAILS!

See Source wen etteched end summary on Willian BOLLEY attached

V/BR

---

