“04-10183-10013|

SINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

“ (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSAS

ieee peeeenineeeey
7 WT a>
Rery, [
14 October- } “toroune, TO Cia +
E tober- Hs
: : scat Not en? Ont
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD: :
SUBJECT. =: : AMWHIP/1 Meeting, New York ‘City
Tuesday, 8 October 1963... i
1. Meeting Time/Place. The meeting was arranged by Jo te ;

telephone from D. C. sterile No. for 1330 ja AMWHIP's. office.
The undersigned picked A/l up as planned and left the premises
-for luncheon at the Italian Restaurant next door. The meeting
terminated without incident at 1600.

2. Purpose of Meeting. The meeting was scheduled in i
order to request A/I to leave for Paris in time to make a Cuban haat
Embassy reception there on the evening of 10 October 1963. . \
A/) was also paid his air fare and expenses incurred during :

. his recent trip to Brazil in connection with the AMLASH op.- hoo

A signed receipt was also received by the under- "
signed for an advance of $945.00 sgainst the purchase of a :
return ticket to Paris for the above reason. is i

3. Details-of Meeting. On Monday, 7 October 1963,
Headquarters recelvcd a cable from Ontrich in Paris stating that
AMLASH had changed his mind about not ccturning, and as a
result, felt th.t it was imperative thut he show up at the Cuban
Embassy reception for the departing Ambassodor in the company ‘
of AMWHIP in order to lend credence for his prolonged stay ;
in Paris and to explnin his source of funds while there, In :
response to a call from the undersinged, AMWHIP replicd that i
some very worrisome business problems at present precluded his j
going at this time, Said he would call later if could arrange
it. Mcanwhile, on heels of first cable came second with
encouraging report re AMLASH attitude towards cooperation
on worthwhile basis with KUBARK, Undersinged again called
AMWHIP, wade luncheon date, in order push case for ANWHIP
going Paris cven 1f for just day or tro, At luncheon talk,
after covering problem fully aa received PARI 0934, AMWHIP
Haid he would do all pommible to comply, Back et office be
began checking flights to Paria,. Said he would contact ua
next day wt 1200, Since the dndcrwigned felt AMWHIP sould
make the trip, latter waa given tontructiona for contact ing
ONTRICH in Partu and the addresa of AMLASH Chere (Por ONTRICH:
tel; ANSO 7400, X 7369: For AMLASH, Motel Studio, Cel: BAN-#100),

(Next day at 1600, undersigned ‘learned that AMHWIP had hod trouble
getting fescryation, but had finally succeeded and would go vie
BOA, arriving PARE via LOND at 1400, 10 October, Thin cabled

to ONTRICHLD ~
eee we

ea Eilargre) (Eittinn & werner sent] i

seme  yes SAa EU, C0

u
a

wee

fond
