10.

CORDS ACT OF 199:
4-10248-10018 -.- | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY BSS nT ONREC OED

<<

\ x We
ro (IVY <x, sz/fors FE VK

To foparrs MEXI INFO SOR BIBER Y
\. 4QUATIC LIONION

ROUTINE

“REF MEXI 098g CIN 79741)*

1. PULSE CAMERAS BEING MODIFIED AND RECONDITICIN®

Ci BY CONTAC
TO CORRECT FAULTS SURFACED DURING LIONION oP, sep er in
c
' AVAILABILITY

FIRST CAMERA THREE WEEKS PROVIDING NO UNFORESEEN
DIFFICULTIES occur.

Sarre

7 PRESENT CAMERA INOPERABLE SUGGEST RETURN To Ri
SESE: ces

OBOT AND
VLS-2 OR K-100 WITH BURST BRACKET AND VLS.

2 FOR INTERIM OPZRATIONA”
COVERAGE,

3. A SECOND CAMERA WILL BE SENT MEXI AS Se:

‘ON AS RECCNDITIONT)
COMPLETED FOR USE STANDBY,

~ END OF MESSAGE —

\
TSD/COMMENT: *LIONICN pulse camera malfunctioning. ff .
Request Hq forward replacement. yy

#/W/exico Miss Bustos by phone x4593

f
oe 3 |
Nie) we kr. Gricisod) in arate

Ld ee anf

SEYOUR DUSESE> eae “ tae ERT Dyss :)

o/rss CoonoIWATING oFFiceRs crour ¢/TSD/o)

RECEASTHG oFricen sede rom etmate| hu twewrieayine
Anne he Orricea

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED, Copy

able to service this request satistactoruy+
vi
ble to se:
replaced one removed (for study) by KUSODA officials wh

s, usin
On 10 December 1963 PARMUTH photographed 423 frames, usin
ee Maren a monthly Staff D requirement for
the Recor

On the morning of 17 December 1963, SWINEHART, LIFEUD/2
th rning o} ’ HART,

ni UTH met at the LIERODE basehouse to install the 35mm SEQUENC
and PARMI mi

camera and the VLS-2 trigger device. SWINEHART instructed both L-22 and
vice, SWIN:
iP. TH ver thoroughly on the installation and maintenance of the SEQUE.
ARMUTH very

———

