"fo 1o0eionsa * 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ] H
oe ace v aacee 5 G

at

SECRET 3196832 JAW 78 RESTRICTED HANDLING
Je
CITE(DAR ES SALAAAM)1144

Tot HEADQUARTERS INFO ee) (EYES ONLY MASTROME) «
MHCURB’ RYBAT MHCHLAOS i
REFS: As Gar’ ts “SAL AAW) nie 174 fan.13
B. HEADQUARTERS 9343 ¢ fut RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Oni
c. [pees Alas 43 _ DONot Reproduce”
D. HEADQUARTERS 8175 10.19
Ee 1233 18 fly Ad z
Fe (Riba) 03452 cor Seu J Mets
L. HEADQUARTERS 308] (NOT SENT sft
H. HEADQUARTERS 3258 |}
1. opow i DEPARTED DAK FOR NAIROBI 30 JANUARY. IN THREE
MEETINGS DURING 9-DAY TDY(OBOWL/1 PROVIDED FOLLOWING NEW DATA:
2. PETE one, BPP LEADER, CONTINUES VERY LOW PROFILE.
HAS BEEN VISITED ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS BY FRED sowntgon, ONCE
EXCHANGED VISITS WITH sHO0-BE-D00. FROM JOHN MANNING Bow. /1

» LEARNED O°NEAL NOW RESIDING IN FIRST FLOOR REAR FLAT OF BLDG G

IN NEW APARTMENT COMPLEX IN SOUTH DAR ES SALAAM. (APPROX LOCATION
COORDINATES 39/43 ON SERIES Y941 EDITION 3 ANS MAP “DAR ES
¢

E2 IMPDET WN-SISM
CL BY 012682

Dove oF THF



(7-34
PAGE 2(DAR ES SALAAM 1144 SEC RET at

SALAAM-SOUTH"). LIVES WITH WIFE CHARLOTTE AND TWO UNIDENTIFIED
BPP MEMBERS IW APARTMENTS ALLOCATED MAINLY TO UNIDENTIFIED
CHINESE ADVISORS. MANNING STATED THAT O°NEAL. ORIGINALLY OBTAINED
FLAT #7 IN BLDG F ADJACENT TO PRESENT RESIDENCE, FROM SUBJ.
REF Bey LEONARD pnon., DILLON RECENTLY DEPARTED, WITH ONLY —
$26 IN HIS POSSESSION, FOR ZAMBIA. i

3. JOHN MANNING WAS UNABLE TO CARRY OUT REF C TRIP TO
UGANDA. APPARENTLY WAS STOPPED AT UGANDAN BORDER BY MILITARY
GUARDS AND ADVISED HE WOULD NEED LNFALL DOCUMENT REQUESTING
ENTRY (THE ULTIMATE HUMILIATION--ACCORDING TO MANNING). MANNINGS
INTENTION WAS TO SEE IDI AMIN AND SUGGEST ECONOMIC LIAISON WITH
BLACK MUSLIMS IN U.S. HIS MOST RECENT ATTEMPT TO CONTACT
UGANDAN LEADER WAS LETTER WRITTEN DURING WEEK OF 22 JANUARY TO.
“AMIN RECOMMENDING THE CHARACTER OF HIS FRIEND JOSEPH “FATMAN” ,
pos 16 SUPPORT OF BROWN’S FORTHCOMING RESIDENCE REQUEST. CIT
ISN’T CLEAR WHETHER THIS IS DIRECT RESULT OF NOTIFICATION OF
TANZANIAN AUTHORITIES AND BROWN OF REVOCATION OF BROWN’S U.S.
PASSPORT SEVERAL DAYS EARLIER OR SOME OTHER REASON. HOWEVER,
IN ALL @pbwLs1 ELICITATION OF INFO ON UGANDAW CONTACTS OF DAR
MHCHAOS COMMUNITY THERE NO INDICATION ANY CONNECTION WITH PLO


[7-94 :
PAGE 3(DAR ES SALAAM 1144 SECRET Dz

INTENTIONS 70 CONTACT BGACK AMERICAN RADICALS REPORTED rn(aur)
2393, : 19308.

“he CROW. M1 CONTACTED ROOSEVELT BROWN SUBJECT REF D. TN 24.
JANUARY FoR SHORT bata IN WHICH BROWN STATED HE HAD Sap

COME DOWN FROM parncet. ACCORDING TO cUbHEARTY/1 ROOSEVELT BROWN

ATTSMPTED RENEW OUTDATED EXCURSION AIR TICKET THAT SAME DAY BUT
WHEN RENEWAL WAS APPROVED WAS INFORMED BROWN HAD RETURNED NAIROBI
26 JAN.

Se ON WAY TO RALLY PROTEST ING PAIGC LEADER CABRAL‘S :
ASSISIWAT TON (OFDM. SPOTTED LYNN CPRINCE’ HENRY) EVANS AKA FREDRIK ~
ROLLINS, SUBJECT REF E. (EVANS CURRENTLY SUBJECT OF NVIDEA
REGIONAL SECURITY OFFICER INVEST 1GAT ION DURING DAR TDY)

6. ON VISIT TO PAW AFRICAN SKILLS (PAS) OFFICE, Ope /1 “ET

: ~~ aed
FRED BROOKS, AND MALIK CHAKA, SUBJECT REF F, LATTER WAS IN MIDST

FRENETIC ACTIVITY PRODUCING. “STATEMENT” FROM PAS FOR DEMONSTRATION
AT TANU HQS DENOUNCING colton eit :

.7- DURING VISITS TO PAS OFFICE, RoW /1 PERFORMED INITIAL
TECHNICAL SURVEY. (FLOOR PLAN AND NOTES BEING FORWARDED BY
DISPATCH). EXEMPLAR ELECTRIC OUTLETS NO LONGER OBTAINABLE
LOCALLY, HOWEVER ows BELIEVES HE CAN GET THEM IN NAIROBI FOR


om ey

734
PAGE 4(DAR ES EALAam uaa SECRET

FORWARDING WOLOCK. - 2

@POWL/! DETERMINED THAT GEORGE RICE AKA GEORGE MATHEWS,
SUBJECT REF G. WAS RELEASED BY TANZANIAN AUTHORITIES SEVERAL.
WEEKS AGO (DESPITE LNFALL IMPRESSION GOVT. STILL PURSUING INITIAL
EXTRADITION OFFER). EXPLANATION GIVEN TOCOBOWL/1 BY MANNING AND
BROOKS FOR ORIGINAL DETENTION OF RICE WAS THaT TANZANIANS HAD
MISTAKEN RICE FOR HIJACKER GEORGE EDWARD weigur. MFA HAD .-
INDICATED TO LNFALL WHEN SUGGESTING EXTRADITION THAT THEY
BELIEVED RICE TO BE HIJACKER WRIGHT BASED ON NEWSPAPER PHOTOS OF
DELTA HIJACKERS. IRONY OF WHOLE SITUATIZN IS. THAT WRIGHT, AKA
LARRY DARNELL WAS IN DAR iy SALAAM AT TIME OF RICE
DETENTION, Sate ait ae TO SEVERAL opowss SOURCES.

9. CURTIS POWELL, SUBJECT REF H, CURRENTLY RESIDES IN SAME
‘AREA BUT NOT SAME BUILDING AS PETE O°NEAL. dom AND MANNING
DROVE POWELL TO AIRPORT ON WEEKEND 27 JANUARY FOR TRIP TO uateopr.
BOTHCOPOWL/1 AND MANNING HAD TO eR TEaH GARBLED) TO PAY
AIRPORT TAX.

18, NO FILE E2, IMPDET wN-SISM. !

SECRET
