Toa to089-10143 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

14 JAN 273

(date)
Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974,

I have reviewed the 201 file on _ SiS (surname)
(201 uumber indicated below), and have determined that it can

most accurately be categorized as’ indicated below:

‘[ 7 should be closed.

witting collaborator. OI Code Al.

[7] .petential witting collaborator; date opened.
—— OI Code A2. pantie

former witting collaborator (relationship’ terminated).
——— OI Code A3. :

“| «potential witcing collaborator never contacted (security
— reasons, derogatory information). OL Code Ad.

I
; a :
‘ i] counteriutelligence case (i.g., involving a foreign
: LAS intelligence or security service). OI Code AS.

| | all others.,. Of Code Ao.

Hof. fA Ip 2

Cconponeliy | 6/7

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

VK Z WE Jaw “1976 :

(initials) : (date)

Signed

HE HEPRODY
iy AFTER seen

i
st

This document is a permanent part. of this file.

ie

Fenda stenocnte ee It ats Hem AME Atha?
Mi
as



Coe,

To : Ghtes, 229 4g]
FROM”: Chief (oes :

SUBJECT: wéandna:
soueubie.

i. a
peat ve Cereal 6 Paes

karnisAlcck, born 3O@

ch, oo at ent to ‘BECCK, ares 37,
etree arrived oa -—s april eee Soutkaapton Pros

New Yorls en) Fqute Go Gdynia is tks Polish 5.3. 3atory. Their ~
destination Zs believed to bo-Warsaw. _ According to a roltabdlo
Anfornen’, wio trevellod with thea. frog New York, BLCCK and his
“wife endoavoures to sot peraission ‘to hagd a pudfite 1 meeting

on board durizs but when this was eases 67

toxe of thofr rea » bho infors
- tho ee boat they ware Coaminists: :

‘coupes Me ‘ : .

Eat
> pair lige

acres
full rovad face; male
drotaj Eoraerinied apecta

50295 pluap pull; complexion ¢ dacs;
brown, straigae, shorpetotted; eyes
05; 8 Jowoss.

+ Source havo ro p: wows recerd oft this couplo and ©2e
be git vo’ boar, whether wolor Snug Save a:

Distrioasio

ApLATYTS f.

[yy

HE REPRODU
Y AFTER. U

ICH
DESTRO



14-00000

A-KtF es vu YM
é01-701424 A
EA
cy

DATE 05/04/07

X-REF. SHEET

Sem beR EET i
3

NUMBER UOC. DATE CLASSI ICATION
‘
-01367 27 MAR 64 201-194231
—vv7de O> VEC 66 201-196251
-01451 10 APR 6% 201-194231

THE ABOVE LUCUMENT (5) IS CROSS REFERENCED
TU THe 2Ui FILE CITED UNDER LEFT MARGIN.

1993
aperorreg FOR RELEASE 12"
iA ee STORICAL REVIEW PROGAA

Seem REET

7343


APPROVED FOR NELEASE 1993-2reu ova ue AGENCY,
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM : i
*SEORET:

mera

 balitisy 22 pip 2%). Te

“SECRET-

TC: - The Commissioner at :
tramigration and Naturalization Service

FROM: Depaty Director for Flaus : 5

SUBJECT: BLOCK, hiorria

: L. Reference is made to your request cated 9 * 7
Jaguary (967 couceraing Subject (File Number All 093. : 7
956 S-JC). Attached ore copies of the folowiag whicl

Lave been previously forwarded to the Feéeral Bercau '

of Tuvestigntida: :

\
d. SODS 6157, cated 25 May 94S, cubfect:
Worsis BLOCH and Moltte DLCCL.

b. CECT 3/746,653, dated 26-Septcr=bev £95
cubfect: Morrio BLOCK, Amerient. Be

e Navy, Cléiee cf the Chie! of

2 exdjects Norcia BLOCH falc
ocits HI. ¥.) acd wife picltic

2 ¢BC32 G Nov lt, how Vi
a2 of Befcace, (Refercece: leie

ay 1964,
OR Cee

NOT To BE DIC er CERTHER OR EXRIBITED
TO AMVON: . TERMISSON OF “CEG

le tn 201-76fe2F
IN 261- ZEAL”

aor



14-00000

— " TSECRET:

3. Youare aleo referrec to the Department of i
State, Passport Divigioa, and the American Embassy, :

Moscow, USSR. ‘

CSCI-316/00759-67

gece peta

Encl, bname check

i
i
!
H
i
i
|
i
i
i
i
‘
i

3 attackrsents ao tated above ‘
RID/CE: IMA /BE /bat :
s
RASEDCN: 201-194231 4
Pe
‘ ;
FILE IN: 201-194231 é i
iu |
i
i
4 i
: i
i
i
i
|
i
t ’
2 ‘
sh
58
52>
a.
t Se
B=
6 Taser oP? OR PSHIBITED bis
suse OF THE byt
Sa eecetceteredscaaraneLECEESEaarenusSEEDVRCY Sut =:

DEST



14-00000

ATES: DEPARTMENT. OF ' JUSTICE
Immigration and Naturalization Service ~~

DIRE! TOR, Cf TTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
2456 . Stee 7 genie
Washingten, D.C.

Renee e

*[sesiDONCE LAST (5) (7) YEARS (Coast © Ka, BSD, o48.) (Gly, lato end county)

Urcetiyn, Eco Terk
Exestlyny Loo Lore

GARLOYMENT CAST (3jq7)YEASS — Employer's wims) (Sumber, street, ety, slote)

* Retst

AGT ADNISEICAS TO ULE. (Ee, port us tad

VEDE GaEES AND DEPARTUSES [Daten ond pats cr mower
Ui VASEICAT NO, (Enews) sea

Chena : i
) sronsoa ra os

ie

j a~
gpmraven FORHELERSEINS 22 Jey gs, ge

i >

CANRISTORICNL met Ma Dob 2 BS

me

¢ du

CENTRAL (SREANGENCE AGENCY 8) g8

: ; =
1 }
