104-10169-10182|

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

|
;

"Wiest, 17 June 61

SUBJECT: My mission to travel to the U.S. to request arms for the
Bscambray, ani why I did not carry out this nission,

TOs Chief of Staff of the -Zscanbray arny
Major Evelio Duque Miyar

FROM: Liaison Officer with Has
Captain Carmelo Gattorno

Dear Sirs
i. With reference to your letter dated 16 June ordering me to

Peport the reason for my incompliance with your order dated 18 Nov. 60

concerning my trip to the U.S. in order to obtain arms and ammo for
"the Escambray, I have the honor to report the followings
: @. On the very same day on which I received the order I’~~
vent to Havana where I saw Mr. (RAMON RUISANCHEZ,)vho was working in
the underground for the Escambray, and he advised me that my trip to

the U.S. was not necessary as he had already received the necessary
quipment directly from outside . As Iwas aware that this was
Precisely the mission of Mr.[RUISANCHEZ] and considering that my

services might be needed for another important mission, I accepted
this gentleman's statement. : :

: “Be The next day he gave me 11 Me3 sub-machine guns, 4 Garant |
‘ifles, and TWO THOUSAND PESOS, which I delivered tc Captain) Edel MONTZEE {
{Borenso| at @ place near Trinidad in the Escambray. After this I again :
returned to Havana for another meéting with Mr. [RAMON RUISANCHEZ)who

was to furnish. two radio~telegraphy, gets to our Hqs, but which I was {
wnable to take back as Mr, (Ravon RUTSANCHEZ [ata not deliver them to mee!
ie 7 ©. With regards to the photographs taken in the zone of
operations, which: would: serve mo as credentials outside Cuba; together: -

find Sb lene

“with the document which you gave me appointing me as Liaison Ofricer
£@f the Escambray Hqs and giving me full powers to represent you outside
Cuba, as my mission had been canceled I left the photographs with

dessoseecCLoeadsdase ee sopenisdide HaMMAREREEOOSEOa?A CIA
ETURNTO. ‘only
RIE round US 02
ges 2a Aiot REP"

ee



"we, (RavOM AUISa5CHRZ] and I lost the docusent «ppotnting re as ee

~

M
Iiaisoa Officer.

a. As it becaze impossible for me to return to the Escambray,

aes
i ye
2. ‘The above report 1s respectfully submitted for your information
end proper proceedings.

I remained in Havana until Feb 61 at which tine I arrived at Miami.

Respectfully yours, “4 iy

o3 ‘ :
/s/|Carmelo Gattornal :
aison Officer, Escambray Has

