# 104-10333-10002

## Page 1

1704-10333-10002

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AGENDA

Meeting with JFK ARRB Staff

Monday, 17 March 1997

2C06 IP Building

1:00 p.m.

Records Management Briefing

Becky Rant, DA/IRO

DAIMO

Cable Process

John Rovito, Agency Network Mgt. Center, OIT

Questions & Answers

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background use ,

Do Not reptuate

John -

Thank you for agreeing to participate in briefing the JFK

Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) to be held on Monday,

17 March, at 2:00 p.m., in 2C06 IP Bldg.)

I regret the short

notice.

As we discussed, the ARRB has asked for information

relating to the creation, transmission, and dissemination of

cables and your name instantly came to mind.

Their specific

questions are:

1- Can you describe the cable process in place in the Agency

during the

1960-1964 time period?

Prior to 1962 messages were delivered to the DPD

(Development Products Division) at 1717 I Street or to the

Building

Connunications Center at "I" Street. In addition there

also was a @ building that received special traffic.

After 1962 messages came into the CIA Headquarters and

were processed in different areas depending on the

types of traffic.

Imagery traffic would be sent to to a specific floor

for the imagery personnel. (Intercept and Special Programs]

would either be passed to a Special Sections Area of the

Communications Center or to the Cable Secretariat.

2- How did cables come in?

Messages came in from the field via the

3- How were they decrypted?

Messages were deciphered using a OTT (One Time Tape)

OI

a OTP (One Time Pad) process.

OCURET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 3

13-00000

RETURN TO CLA •

Background Use Ont

1j Nint Meproduce

4- What happened from the time a cable was sent from a field

site until it arrived

on a desk at Headquarters?

He sages on fron a jeld storied morese

communicator, encrypted and transmitted via

High Frequency Radio. The message received from

and relayed to headquarters and then it was decrypted.

The analyst of the Cable Secretariat would then read the

message and match what they read against customer

requirements. They then would have a typist type the

dissemination on the message. The message then would be

picked up fro the message center by the varlous staffs

and or divisions.

5- How were cables disseminated?

See item four.

Please let me or Becky Rant, DA/IRO, know if you have any

other questions or concerns prior to the briefing.

CC:

Becky L. Rant

Andréa E. Boyce

Sent on 13 March 1997 at 03:17:34 PM

ATTIE TACA

=:":

Gardhed0n4;

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration=

Briefing for the

JFK Assassination Records Review

Board Staff

on

Records Management in the DA

17 March 1997

• DA Information Management Officer

2B17 IP Bidg.

703-613-1205

Secure 31205

g:lirolbriefing\jfkbref.ppt

Becky Rant

DA Information Review Officer

2B17IP Bldg:

703-613-1204 Secure 31204

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Page 1

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration=

TOPICS

• CIA Information Services Strategic Plan

• Information Management Program Segments

• Information Management Goals

• Organization of Records Management In the Agency

• DA Information Management Officer (IMO)

• DA Information Review Officer (IRO)

• Deputy Director for Support (DDS) - 1965

• Deputy Director for Administration (DDA) - 1997

• DA Records

g:lirolbriefing\jfkbref.ppt

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Page 2

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration=

CIA Information Services Strategic

Plan

• "Information and Records Management, including

Classification Management, is a fundamental and

essential business requirement for the Agency."

• "The ClA's Information Services shall...ensure

that each official record is appropriate, accurate,

secure and retrievable throughout its life cycle

regardless of physical form or media."

lega

ablege

g:rolbriefing jfkbref.ppt

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Page 3

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

Information Management Program

Segments

• Records Management - editheator, atorge

• Classification Management - Excutor Orders

• Information Disclosure - scar stu, one

• Information Automation - electionie formit

g:lirolbriefingVjfkbref.ppt

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Page 4

---

## Page 8

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administratione

Information Management Goals

An effective and efficient information management

ensures that records are available:

• to meet day-to-day business needs

• to ensure the continuity and consistency of records

• to provide corporate memory and history

• to protect the rights and interests of the organization, the

employees and the public

• to meet legal requirements

g:lirolbriefing\jfkbref.ppt

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Page 5

---

## Page 9

13-00000

Assoclate Deputy Director for Administration

Information Services

This slide is Administrative Internal Use Only

Organization of Records

Management in the Agency

D/Info Mgt *

OIT

Recruitment

& Training*

Policy Research

& Audit*

Archive &

Preservation*

„System

Development*

DCI/IMO*

DA/IMO*

DI/IMO*

DO/IMO*

component/imos component/imos component/imos component/imos

Agency Information &

Records Management

Panel

*= member

DS&T/IMO*

component/imos

Chart 11

laddalslech396alrmp.ppt

---

## Page 10

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration=

DA Information Management

Officer (DA/IMO)

• The DAIMO is the Deputy Director for Administration's

representative for issues relating to records and

classification management.

• The DA/IMO is responsible for protecting equities

consistent with existing statues, EO guidance and

internal rules and regulations governing the creation,

maintenance and use, and disposition of information.

• g:Urolbriefing\jfkbref.ppt

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Page 7

---

## Page 11

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

DA Information Review Officer

(DA/IRO)

• The DA/IRO is the Deputy Director for Administration's

representative for reviewing all DA relevant information for

release to the public under FOIA, PA, EO, and other

information release programs.

• The DA/IRO is responsible for protecting equities

consistent with existing statutes, EO guidance and internal

rules and regulations governing the review and release of

classified information, specifically, in response to:

• FOIA/PA/EO Requests

• Congressional Inquiries

• DOJ Inquiries/Litigations

• IG Investigations

• Special Searches & Other Release Programs

g:lirolbriefing\jfkbref.ppt

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Page 8

---

## Page 12

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

Deputy Director for Support

(DDS) - 1965

• Office of the DDS (ODDS)

• Office of Security (OS)

• Office of Personnel (OP)

• Office of Medical Services (OMS)

• Office of Logistics (OL)

• Office of Finance (OF)

• Office of Communications (OC)

• Office of Training (OTR)

g:lirolbriefing\jfkbref.ppt

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Page 9

---

## Page 13

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration=

Deputy Director for

Administration (DDA) - 1997

• Office of the DDA (ODDA)

• Office of Personnel Security (OPS)

• Office of Facilities & Security Services (OFSS)

• Office of Finance & Logistics (OFL)

• Human Resources Management (HRM)

• Office of Medical Services (OMS)

• Office of Communications (OC)

• Office of Information Technology (OIT)

• Office of Training & Education (OTE)

• Center for Security Evaluation (CSE)

g:Vrolbriefingljfkbref.ppt

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Page 10

---

## Page 14

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration=

g:lrolbriefingytkbref.ppt

DA Records

Information Management Officers

Core functions

• 1960s > basially the same

• 1990s

Records Life Cycle - general spatin used

• Creation

by records maragmente

• Maintenance & Use

most records done by

personal identify aname

• Disposition

medical files hept by coderne

File organization takes with them

relevant recods with

a reorganization - Netting

is left out or berind

Administrative-Internal Use Only ie OGC recordo mored

fom DA to DCI's office

Page 11

---

## Page 15

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration=

DA Records

• Records Control Schedules Pends Meng

tanus • Temporary /Lau eaterie fles in Ageregene documented

stationi Lept • Permanent

ner recordo senso = new schedule

5b years.

Old records still reflected in ciment

этики

Records Storage-unchue - Rends Carter

achedule

Lcontasto

• Short term

Ether con

francesar

Accountability

• Personal - ead person is responsible for create retrin

information

• Organization

Search & Retrieval

g:lrolbriefing\jfkbref.ppt

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Page 12

---

## Page 16

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

DA Records

• Access

• Safeguarding

Preservation

• Hardcopy

• Electronic

• OGC Retention List

Automation

g:UrolbriefingYfkbref.ppt

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Page 13

---

## Page 17

13-00000

SECRET

RETURN TO GIA

Background Uise Only

Do Not Reproduce

DA Buping 3/17/97

Combs

17

dao Management Chat l

so more centidyed file meraquant

A more decentired N/ 10 composen a/speca zolo

Ich One marages then our pogist

A/IMO Work W/ul 1D olfices en De

DA/IRO

5endgery each Duestorate +DCI

- tests 10 DA component

- component pod info, a IRO neurcare fo

possible release

I M0 in comporents de the reardoseuch h bite

PARTMO - DA/TRO.

Archive -Pecords di

DA/OIT manag

(42,440 pm tafrecal fa DA

not Do wad ne tupony'

personal 75%

archer began early 501

2355

pe 55 ma Rosy

SECRET

HE HAN TO CIA

Backgrognd Use Only

---

## Page 18

13-00000

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Orily

Do Not Bearaduce

SCRET

47

cords Monagement/ Storage

-sten that tello us what bokes are expiris

- OGC retention best-not destroyed untl O6C arpe

accantibility -

Beard o Retire pat de tar little

ARSENS) automited query for duckere estamete

can and for dare intrendy 5026

Old an ekephut senputed in mid 702

Pund

ри с

sites of tu

aunt

the legal

/reaf Personnel beant enter rend

bestudio end za

their index. loned

sore dant.

SECRET

REHAN TO CIA

Background ise Oniy

-DaAnt Goproduce

---

## Page 19

13-00000

RESECRET

Background lise Only

Do Not Reproduce

3/7

Cable Process -John Rovito, - E00 1963

Stations can and messages Isterallyao tas

browledge

Special propecto like U-2

Lindline, CW, anse code, teletipe

One time tapet one time pad.

L street were opertors, calle artent

comm etu → cable sectanat → disemenato

typed by typist bredon

went bested

~ boaha

diveriors

drestrate band

a dupe in messe

lite cable secretarat call suspend enforta

otter directorates

'Speand tuff clint/comit/spepet

decrypted long a the preen - stre

Queta Moulity 63-s there more then I camend a/comes?

Non ti

defuent Porter I and

area, L86, O8t, ite ther

you can send newag

indepestanty.

SECRET

- 38

ASTURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do not Roproduce

---

## Page 20

13-00000

Ret

CRET

Background Use Orky

Do Not Fioproduce

417

State -CIAover came linho -

longeste

routero o encryption

SCT + NonSCT = diferent Neturke

Privacy traffic is shiged a indishun

- tell

801L persiked limited - CILd thet

to tell as far to me sepanted

as well (/ast, entere meang)

Are log actedule, kept?

Chrome records hept?

anyprecads hept?

Now:

not the COMMO LTR.

en 59-64 Cable Secretornt wasunde DCI

but recads me hept for only a relati

shot period of tame (minafita?)

maybe lp 1à76.

Computer septem pest e 1977

all men

Backtrand Lise Onty

Do Pivi Reproduce

34293

---

## Page 21

13-00000

880.020

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

5/7

post 64 Comme prete up pet tuffie

a Buildug - didit hortle RH?

Bil? rusented benited

offee manga paget determine the

channels

were special regular traffic quen

sequential #s or where

Hey musterd to

parallel tucks?

SCI -comportmented

All in efect pom 1952 as

special desiquee

Melitarp

state

NSA

cutel channel

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 22

13-00000

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Sackground Ese Only

Do Not Reproduce.

6/7

DA Questions

BLE

Financial Accounting vouchered, entifish, "andited

indexing ou

Kept by offee in US

Date location, timepend

HRM his meration of stefing complements

for that time period

C/Financed Sences - doesnt thirtent was

maintained that way, ifit wanet an

muntained in a 201, 301 orpiput ple.

Of records were at organged by project

But by accounting pecters

4.

Personnel

Contact protect the en eate

Filed by some,

exhat then the te an fle and the.

payrollple

SECRET

BRATO CIA

Badi

A Baccad

---

## Page 23

13-00000

RETURN TO CA

Background lise Cnly

Do Noi Reproduce

777

Security

get Wed for Bany

3

SRS - collested, developed, evalusted

ind. CInature

5

secunty dearance the actorties forson emplaye

acron the beard stilf like elecame

They do national agine cheets on contactors

BETUAN TO CIR

Background l'se Cnly

Do Not feproduce

---

## Page 24

13-00000

Types of Questions for DA Records Briefing

March 17, 1997

Budget and Finance

1. In Cold Warrior, (p. 52) Mangold refers to a CI secret slush fund which was tightly.

controlled by Angleton and never audited by the usual procedures. According to

Mangold, it was this fund which allowed Angleton to run his own operations without

supervision. Did the fund exist? Was this fund ever audited? Are there any records of

CI operational expenses for the period 1959-63?

2. Mangold also refers (p. 53) to an unnamed CI/B&F officer who says he worked for

Angleton from 1958-1964 and never dealt with him directly on a single matter. Is there

a list of B&F officers assigned to the CI Staff from 1959-63. Do their records still exist?

3. We have seen Directorate of Operations monthly operational reports which contain

information on the allocation/ distribution of operational funds. Are there other DO or

DA records which reflect how a certain project utilized its funding? Can this type of

information from the early 1960's still be retrieved?

4. What records are kept on disbursements to sources in the field? If, hypothetically,

LHO had received money from the Agency, what records would exist?

Personnel

1. What records are maintained on contract personnel?-→ OP

→ UMS

Security

payrall filo

1. For the period betweën 1955-65, what was the universe of files that OS had on

individuals of groups?

2. How are Office of Security records indexed? card to keypunch

(SAG)

3. Hy we was the function a che in this compone/Security Research Stat (09/55)?

'CI function"

4. In the OS/SRS memo of Oct. 31, 1960, written by Marguerite D. Stevens, the file

numbers of several defectors are listed: "Robert Edward Webster, EE-18854; Lee

Harvey Oswald, MS-11163; Libero Ricciardelli, MS-8295; Vladimir Sloboda, MS-10565;

and Joseph Dutkanicz, MS-10724." What do the "MS" and "EE" file prefixes designate?

How are these designations assigned?

---

## Page 25

13-00000

5: Does OS process security clearances for non-employees (e.g. sources) to receive

access to classified information? What kinds of files are created by this process? How

long are these files maintained. For example, Clay Shaw was given a security clearance

and had access to classified information based on his "responsibilities" as a source for

the Domestic Contacts Division (DCD).

6. Where are records that would describe liaison (etc.) cooperation or operations

between OS and CI located? How are these records organized?

7. Where are records regarding operations that OS participated in or ran located. For

example, where are the OS records on the Castro assassination attempts?

8. How many files did OS have on Oswald? Which OS components maintained files on

Oswald? Why did OS have any files on Oswald?

---

