# 104-10290-10156

## Page 1

=104-10290-10156 г

# 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AAN, 0034902

89436

POUTIN

ARL: LOTO ANISA ADDI DERY DAD? INIA ALGI BONN PARI

"U:!

"AG!! TEAR LISB COPR PASO BBIR LOP SEXI FROB

ПА'А

CAZA TOBY BAGO VIEN

TPLY BAGO MIBID ATUS JIND

TOTE CYRO TRIE CHOP OBLO CHIR SOCA PACY CHI BOL ICAN

PESAND

TRAP EAST - APRICA BRIBF

(NOTORY IN SLANTS, REMAINING INFO RELBASABLS TO LIAISUI.)

1. ADEN: BRITIS: AUTHORITIRS IN MDEN ARE INVESTIGATINO THE

POSSIBILITY THAT THS BONBING INCIDERT WHICH TOOK PLACE AT ADEN

AISPORT ON ID DIC WAS PART OF AN ORGANIZED CONSPIRACY.

THE BRITIS!

JAVE ROURDRO UP A NUMBER OF LEADERS OF THE PSOPIB'S SOCIALIST PARTY,

AN ARAB. NATIONALI8T ORGANIZATION, AFD HAVE DEFORTED OVER 100

THENIS FRON ADEN: IN THE DARE OF THE INCIDNEY.

TIE OSITISA SEAARESTLY

ARE FRARFUL THAT THE YRUBHI REPUELICANS, ABSISTED BY SES LUYPILAT,

ARE PLASMINE TO HOUNT A SABIAGE CAMPAIGN IN ADEN.

2: CTERIN: 1/70D GREET OFFICIALS HAVE TOLD TRE CYPRIOT FOR&IGN

MINISTER TRAY GREBE ARMED FORCES BOULD. BB COMMITTED QUICKLY AGAINST

AMY TUPTISE "ILTTARY INTERESETION ARISIM. OUT DF TIE CONSTITUTIONAL

SIK! AN ASSURAVER COULD FURTIER EMBOLDEY CIPRUS

PRESIDENT MAKARTOS AND UNDERCUT CURRENT

FRIJISH REEDITS. D0 POSTEN

1 44

$1,16111911

to-9t1 1 905

ATHEN 124119E

1R40 0017 10 1е:101:

, f!

torturod do disnero.

Lope Nis,

---

## Page 2

181

WERE RAD

143.13

5978. 8U

83426

SCOTIATIONS. A TURNTA PORRIGS BIVISTRY OFFICIAL SAID SHAT, AI

TROUGE ANWRA REOGIES STATICO DO TRAYILY CONUTER TO ORRETTTO

SIVISCA, TURNEY, TOO, IS DISPLY COSTATE AD PREPARES SO "CO TIS

LINIT" IN SUPPORT OE TAS TURKIBU CYPRIOR COMUNITY IL

S. MALE: INUCRATEYED DETUNTIONS FROM THE SOCIALISE (ISD)

AND CHRISTIAN DEVOCRATIC PARTIES ARI UNLIESLY. TO DEVSAI PREMIER MOBO

IN THE PARLIANINTARY VOTE OF DONFIDSIES NEST WEST, BUT THEY MAY

RAIBE SERIOUS DOUBTS ABOUT TIE VIABILITT DE. THE COALITION.

RECENT

LETTU ING SOCIALIST AGITATIO: FOR VORE INFLUENCIRL POSTS WITHIN THR

PASTY S FIBRÁNOTY HAO APPIXETTLY INOUCCRSOPEE LIB SOLE FOI DIE-Z-FLE

MAY. BISE EXPULSION PY VOTING AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT.

OVER THE LONG

RUN, TSE KEY FACTOT LAY DE THE ATTITUDE OF CHRISTIAN DEDOCRATIC

RIGHT-HIFGERS FIOSE DEFECTION MOULD LESSER MORO'S LALEUVERABILITY AI

(CONF)

• in mon

TENTEN

---

