# 104-10163-10096

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10163-10096

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

• prides:

Cini

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

REUTING

DATE 182 SEF 63

TO • DIRECTOR

FROM : UMWAVE

ACTIONE

INFO 8

SECRET

(TEMPO COPY ISSUED TO

apte

IW,

2200, 11

63, DD)

$t

SEP 12 8285Z 63

PRIORITY

IN 17928

TOCS D8-3/656,590

PRITY DIR: INFO LANT PACY (BARR BY POUCH) CITE WAVE 4212

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATAS MCLATTER-I FROM OTLL JOHNSON. REF UFG-3594 RID: NO INDEX.

F:LED 12B817Z

REPORT CLASS& CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

• COUNTRYS CUBA SUEUS IDENTITY OF THE AIRCRAFT DEALER SUPPLYING THE TWO

P-51 AIRCRAFT FOR A POSSIBLE AIR STRIKE AGAINST CUBA

D0I: 11 SEPT 63 PADAS UNITED STATES, MIAMI (11 SEPT 63) UFG-3687

SOURCES: A THAINED OBSERVER WITH ACCESS TO A WIDE VARIETY OF CUBAN

EXILES; SÖURCE IS KNOWN TO MOST OF HIS CONTACTS AS A CHANNEL TO U.S.

INTELLIGENCE, FROM BILL. JOHNSON.

" N' COMMENT.

CI/

INTEL

Rais

DESUP

NO SEPARA!

CABLE DISTRIBUTION IS BEING MiUL OF tHIS TUESDO.

SO/AS

80/3E

LOB/

SPPr

TOU

PIN,

SEC

HARI

ER;"

: D 2013251689

RAS

MH/REG

412.

7

03

S. PIERSON

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

12 SEPTEMBER 1963

85392

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

BASED ON: UFG, 3607

UP (AMCLATTER)

,N8nj01

SECRET

HCLASINKAIITA

REPRODUCTION BE OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMINITED.

Copy No.

RETURN TO CLA

sacheround Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

VIBR

---

## Page 2

4-00000

TELEG

INFORMATION REPORT TELEG

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENY

•Practing

at nice in no shann

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

DATE OF

ліс.

SATE ACO.

SOURCE

CONFIDENTIAL

CUBA

REPORT NO. TDCS 03-3/656,500

IDENTITY OF THE AIRCRAFT

DEALER

SUPPLYING

THE TWO P-51 AIRCRAFT FOR A POSSIBLE AiR STRIKE

DATE DISTR. 12 SEPTEMBER IJ";

AGAINST

CUBA

PRECEDENCE PRIORITY

11 SEPTEMBER 1963

UNITIO STATES (11 SEPTEMBER 1963)

FERENCE

0C5i 9-3/650,55

s7prin

FIELO REPORT NO. UFG 3607

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

A TRAINEO OBSERVER WITH ACCESS TO A WIDE VARIETY OF CUBAN EXILES, SOURCE

KNOWN TO MOST

JOHNSON.

.OF HIS CONTACIS AS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE, FROM O:LI

I.1 FIELD COMMENT: IT WAS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT CUBAN EXILES.

MAY BE PLANNING AN AIR STRIKE AGAINST A MIG BASE IN CUBA, THE STRIVE

WAS TO INVOLVE TWO ROCKET ARMED P-51 AIRCRAFT, WHICH WERE TO STAGE FE

AN AIRFIELD: IN GEORGIA WHICH WAS USED BY AGRICULTURE FUMIGATION

AIRCRAFT.)

2, TWO P-51 AIRLiFT ARE SEING SOLD FOR iME TOTAL SUM OF 16. MI

DOLLARS TO BILL JOHNSON E: THE AREO ENTERPRISES, INC. OF LA PORTE

NDIANA.

THE SHIPS HAVE NO EQUIPMENT AND ARE NOI ARMED

CONFIDENTIAL

' CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

pissinalon

DIA ARMYRAGON MAYY

MIA: NIC

STATE/DIR

AlO USIA OCI ONE OCA

LONS

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT

"TREASURY, COAS"

75707747

TELEGRAMS

#:: 281-251688

7ONS SAT

---

## Page 3

4-010000

OUSSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

(WANN PILLED DES

CONTRGILED DISSEM

TDCS 08-3/656,590

iN :

PAGE

1792.5

2

3. BILL JOHNSGH HAS NAPALM LOADED DROP TANKS WHICH HE WILL ATTACH

IN LA PORTE.

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINGSO, COMNAVKENWEST, MIAMI REPS

STATE, USCO, FBI, BORDER PATROL, INS

NO OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTAL

(WHEN FILLED LEI

коем т

Ma, Sei

119,90:44.471.

BOTTOM

MUATION DE TDES ENORMATION REE?

---

