# 104-10186-10104

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10186-10104

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 -

i ha

¡PON!

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

CouNTRy Cuba/Dodinican Republic

SURICT SAIMO DURAN Hernando

• REPORT NO

DATE DISTR

(SC1-316/02360-64

• 1 December 1961

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO

PLACE &

fashington,

bC.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Roproduce

DATE ACQ.: 1962

FIELO REPORT NO

TNIS IS UNEVALUATEO INTO

INTOS AR

RAISAL DR CONTENT LE TENTATIVE

SOURCE,

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Connents

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information

from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any

of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports

without first checking with this Agency:

Tel: +0-8188-8088

Jaine DURA' Hernando is Known

porsonally by source

and was identified by source fron official travel manifests

also from a photograph as a Dominican and a member of

sent to cuba to

As a member of the APCS, DURAN was originally

secure a scholarship in the union

of Soviet

Socialist Republics (USSR).

lonever, source judges thai

upon this scholarship not materializing.

was put Into

the guerrilla warfare training program instead.

believes that DiRAN was still in Cuba at the time he left. 3

Unwittingly, DURAN was used by a Direccion General

de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI)

member, whose true name is allegedly Elpidio RUIZ (pseudonyu

"Tiburon"), to deliver a microjila message, concealed in a

match folder, to source in labana, with the comment that it

came from one of the members of the upD.

The MPD does not

krow RUIZ Is a Cuban

intelligence officer. DURAN traveled

to Cuba by way of Janaica and France.

(CONT.)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

STATE

I ARHY

REP CINCLINT CINCSO =

¡Nore: Piold durribution indicarod br "=")

I&YS

17B 2

(ALSO SENT TO SANTO DOMINGO)

IN FORMATION REPORT

D71/SA/EOB: L' JEL5-5

ICL'U

11!

TOTALAH/SA 7 (1),

NS 1 (2), CI 6, RID 1, D71 1j:11204

INORMATON REPORT

TANYA INSON 11X-1826

SIEXBRITISHH

NO PROJECT (ANNUG/I)

CSCI-316/02360-64

TOO DINTING BISE ART.

WH/2/DR. BS: LD SA

in draft CI

FORM NO

12 w

!

•709,79

sin.

2514:1

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• .

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

Readquarters Comments:

1. DURAY was sub-secrotary general of the ApOs.

?.

for information on DURAY's travel from Santo Domingo,

13 September 1963, to Cuba see TDCS-3/558.651, TDCS-3/358.991.

and TDCS 3/560,741.

3.

In TDCS-314/01550-64, 01 27 October 1964, a usually rollable

Dominican source reported that while in Cuba DURAN had sever

months of military training.

DuRan returngo to tho dominican

Republic, by air, on 23 October 1964

from Curacao.

•. •

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSA!

---

