# 104-10135-10079

## Page 1

₴ 104-10135-10079

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Workcom

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

OLC 78-0443/3

5

April 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Shepanek

0/SA/DO/O

FROM

SUBJECT

: Mr. Patrick L. Carpentier

Assistant Legislative Counsel

: HSCA Interviews of (Tokyo Station)SR Division

Individuals (S)

1. (S) Michael Goldsmith, HSCA staff, called concerning the

Committee's letter of 2 March 1978 and requested that the Committee

will coniine its intervlews of persons assigned to the Tokyo Station) /3. 3

only to those people that were then assigned to the SR Division. The

remaining individuals listed can be completely disregarded.

2. (S) Goldsmith also requested that arrangements be made for

staff investigator Harold Leap to interview those persons now serving

in Headquarters who were assigned to the SR Division of theTokyo 13-3

Station in 1963. At this time we will arrange such interviews only

for those persons who served in the SR Division during the months of

November and December 1963.

3. (S) Will you please follow through and make the necessary

arrangements. Alter the first group is interviewed, we will discuss

this request with Goldsmith and Leap to determine whether or not it

will be necessary to interview those people that were assigned to the

(Tokyo Station in 1963 prior to the assassination.

133

Patent Haunters

SECRET

-2 ETCh all 3425t

17356°

---

