# 104-10186-10304

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10304

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SUTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

SO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY. Cuba

SUBHECT

REPORT NO.

Robario Artonio MORO Perez

(pseudingm Regel MORENO)

DATE DISTR

. CSC1-3:781, 888

18 Jue 1964

NO. PAGES

• 2

REFERENCES

DATE Of

INFO

PLACE &

DATE AÇO

SOURCE:

1964

NaS 734J0n, D.C.

FIELD REPORT NO.

MAS IS UNETHBATED

ON SOURCE GRADAIOS ARE DETiNITIVE APPRAISAL JA CONTENT IS TENTAT

A formi: Cuban IS rificer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

SerrICe satil April 1954

CSCI-3,791, 855.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Headquarters Consist The following report is one of a series

contal ang personair informotion provided by the source ard

inciutes suppleme tal information from the records of this Agency.

Roberto Arlenio MORO Perez, pseudonym Rogel MORENO, the first

secretary uf the Citar. Embassy in Romo, is a Cuban Intelligence

Sorrice officer in tro Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI - General

Directorate of Inteligence.

1, 2, 3, 4,

Heariquarters Comments.

1.

Accurding to a citement daled 26 April 1963 from an official

Liaison Service! Roberto Artonio MORO Perez arrived ir Rome on

28 MIrch 19654 5, ds of 1 April 1963, assumed the functions of

second secretari is the Cuin Embassy. MORO, who is sunglase

insides it Via Airtomede 80, Ameriran Palace Hotel, Rome.

cirried Cuban diplomatie passport number D, 63/136 which was

issued in Habira i: 23 February 1963.

3. In a rport dated di Miy 1903 from a source who is usually

reliaile, si was surred that Roverto MORO Perez, the sciond

secretary at the clean Enibassy in Rome, is defititely

respursible for aid cormercial dealings as well as the firing

el recroil persarel. Source described, MORO as brirg one

ul the must aili e Erbassy officers and as being very well

MirA py die Cli" tabassador, Leorardo FERNANDEZ Sanchez.

MORO hes dari shinisell tir more quickly to the foreign

scene that other Entassy persorel because he studies the

RHY

REP CINCLANT

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

INSA

K&NS

2

i oxa

FBT.

LORI

IRORI

ORT

FOR WRER

JE CANADE

LEIERITISE

Ter-151

NO PROJECT

13:

TOTALS

LIAISON

CSC: - 3.761,880

WE. 4

WH 346:11, WE 12). CH 1. RED 1

14-5-1

3/BR

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-2-

CSCI-3/781, 888

language, the political situation, and has broken away from the narrow social

lie existing within the official Embassy family. There are suspiclons that

MORO is an intelligence officer.

- 3. The same usually reliable source,

in a 6 september 196S report, added the

following Information concerning MORO:

MORO is a very hard worker and works with precision and accuracy.

Politically he is a secure CASTRO supporter, but with intelligence and

ita.

moderation. He is serious, perhaps excessively reserted, but does not

lack communication or the capacity to lnspire sympathy from both his

colleagues at the Embassy and the Italian's with whon he comes in contact.

he never speaks of his family.

His commercial work at the Embassy

follows the normal office routine without any particular security treatment.

His hiring of technical personnel is considered extremely classified and he

refers these matters directly to the ambassador; no one else is authorized

to have contact with candidates for work in his area. MORO does not use

an automobile with Corps Diplomatic tags, probably for security reasons,

but instead drives a Renault R-8 with temporary license tags which are

valid for one year.

4.

In a report dated 17 January 1964 this same source said that Roberto MORO

Perez and Odina ROJAS Trete, both second secretaries at the Cuban Embassy

i..

in Rome, have been lovers for sometime and live together at Via Cuboni 16

while MORO pretends to reside in an apartment on Via Archimede.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

