# 104-10106-10397

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10106-10397

*N3,

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1SH PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

CA•SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

1l urG.

LET POUTING AND/ON INITIALS-SEE

6

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COMES

1Y

SECRET

GHOUI

INCAPED A Meer Ar

"RATIC

(When Filled In)

robina: ":

saves card rauro

REPEODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIDITED

INDEX:

[] NO

CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO. -

л.:

X-REF TO

CS FILE NO. -

FILITKIN

30

FER,

FILE RID

RETURN TO

BRANCH

C/EURS RetiE, va c/RI/so c/GI c/F2 DOP ReSP CIAO

C5131

$128

SECRET

1817452 MAY 70 CITE(LONDON) 1613 (LAUTERBACH ACTING)

20-1

DIRECTOR

C

RYBAT KEYWAY

13HM..005505

1. (ErOtH) NUPDOT) EXPECTS BE ASKED BY HME TO COMMENT

ON ACCURACY LONDON TELEGRAPH ARTICLE 16 MAY TO EFFECT THAT

MR. HERBERT ITKIN, AMERICAN LABOR LAWYER, WAS ON JKLANCE

SECRET MISSION IN BRITAIN IN 1965. ARTICLE SAYS JALANCE

HAS FORMALLY ACKNOWLEDGED IN PAPER SUBMITTED TO NEW YORK

SUPREME COURT THAT ITKIN WORKED AS AN AGENT IN BRITAIN AND

THAT THIS ONLY SECOND TIME JKLANCE HAS PUBLICLY ACKNOWLEDGED

THE ASSIGMENT OF AN UNDERCOVER AGENT NOT OFFICIALLY ON

JALANCE PAYROLL (POWERS WAS FIRST) •

2. ACCORDING LOCAL LNERGO, IT ACTUALLY HANDLED

ITKIN IN LONDON AS INFORMANT ON CRIMINAL MATTERS IN 1965.

(JAGUAR AWARE OF THIS. HOWEVER, LOCAL LNERGO AS CONFUSED

AS WE ARE AS TO ITKIN'S JKLANCE CONNECTION AT THAT TIME.

3. REQUESI HOS ADVISE WHAI WE MAY TELL (SMOTH.

4. NO STATION RECORD IT KIN.

5. FILE DEFER.

GP- 1

SECRET

031 066 0910

191:1

DDY

" / сі.

5/188

---

