# 104-10133-10337

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10133-10337

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN.F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

-...-.....

Jend & 350776

MORODUETON SY

OTHER THA

155100/ Orfice 15

PROHIBITE

STAFF N

RECEDENCE

SF.. FiF .

051:562, 056F1

0PS/I64

1 981395

=1476*

PAGE D1

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

IN 944357

19536

SECRET WIZZOE JUN 76 STAFF

CiTE GUATEMALE CITY 19536

TO: PRIDRITY DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI,

ESDEW ESMIGI

REPS:

A.

GUATEMALA GITY 19510 (IN 937052)

B ,

(GUATEMALA CITY 19375 SNOT SENT LAINIAMID (IN 89O 3607)

i.

ESMIGH-dE (E-8, PASSED STATION WRITTEN REPORT AND NADE

VEREAL REPORT IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOWLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD.

REF A CASE AND RESULTS. ACCORDING REPORT AND E-68, NATIONAL

LIBERATION MOVEMENT (MLND WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

]IMER I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINGE AUGUST 75%

IN PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD, PLOT WAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

OUT 15 SEPTEMBER 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LIFE

LATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

REPORT AND E-68 CLAIM THAT TWO AMERICANS, BROTHERS ROBERT AND

GETALO PATRICK HEMMING INDISTATION TRACESS, WERE ALSO

INVOLVED WITH ZIMER! IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISYED HIM IN

ACQUIRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN YO GUATEMALA

ILLEGÄLLY IN SMALL AIRCRAFT. REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE (5) REQUESTS

BY LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

SECRET

Dah Guatemala Desk.

X1041

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SLE SEC DISSENS 3Y-

_PER

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION

BY OTHER TI

ISSUING

OFFICE iS

PACHIBIT

¡SON UNIT NOTINED.

SECRET

STAFF

¡ANCE COPY

CELEONGLOTIEO

iTION UNIT

RF.

FILE

BY

AT

VR .

2

3

5

6

ACTION I.

т 981395

E18767

PAGE B2

IN 944357

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

GUAT

18536

IS ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT BY

AUTHORITIES

THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

•AS PURCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.

C. IS. HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR POSSIBLE USE- IN

GUATEMALA....

DO REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HEMMING.

• E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REGUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA, E-68 SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA ILLESALLY

BUT ÄRRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HAS

EXPIRED AND HE THERE ILLEGALLY:

2. ESTATION PLANS DISSEM INFO ON ZIMERI CASE BUT WITHE-T

MENTIONING KEMMINGS BY NAME.

PLAN PREPARE MEMO FOR CHAFFE

AND RSO AND WILL SUGGEST THAT LATTER ATTEMPT ANSWER QUEST:INS

FOR LAUGERUD.

ESCENCE AND E-G8 ALSO REPORTED 7 JUNE IN SOME DETAIL ON

SOLUTION OF NOVELLA KIDNAPPING CASE (REF BI. THERE POLITICAL

IMPLICATIONS THIS CASE ALSO SO WE DISSEMING..

E-68 CLAIMS

SECRET:

---

## Page 3

4-00000

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN:

our cared

: ZE. S227

ESUED CLOTTER

A win

FiF .

FiLE

N

FIY

REPRODUCTION UY OTHER THAN

IS SUING

OFFICE

15

ISTAFF

VR

15

: 0i

Y 941395

PAGE 03

TOR: 0822427 JUN 76

IN 944357

GUAD 19536

THERF AMERICA: -ISSIBLY INVOLVED THIS CASE, ONE FRANK BUCK

APPORABLY IDENTICAL TO SUSJECT OF 201-0819515, A REGISTERED

DE: SOURCEDO WHO CLAIMS ES DOCTOR BUT DOES NOT PRACTICE HERE.

HE ALLEGEDLY LOVES OF SISTER OF INTELLECTUAL AUTHOR OF NOVELLA

KIDNAOPING PLAN. MORGE ALFONSO LOB O DUBON, IN WHICH ANOTHER

LOBO BROTHER, DESE FERNANDO LOB O DUBON, ALSO INVOLVED.

BIÓS HAS REQUESTED WHATEVER INFO WE MIGHT HAVE ON BUCK. STATION

PLANS INCLUDE THIE NAME ALSO IN MEMO TO CHARGE AND RSO BUT WILL

OMIT IT FROM DISSEM.

• 4. FOR MIAMID ONE SOURCE OF INFO ON ZIMERI CASE MAY WELL.

HAVE BEEN ESDEW-1, COS SAW LATTER BY ACCIDENT & JUNE. ESDEN-1

SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN PROVIDING INFO TO GOG ON ZIMERI FOR PAST

SIX MONTHS OR SO AND ADDED THAT TWO AMERICANS INVOLVED WITH

ZIMERI, ONE OF WHOM RUNS A GUARD SERVICE IN MIAMI. HE DID

NOT MENTION NAMES BUT DESCRIBED ONE AS ABOUT SIX FEET FOUR INCHES

AiD WEIGHING ABOUT 238 POUNDS. ESDEW-1 PLANS RETURN MIAMI WITHIN

TWO WEEKS SINCE IN OVER TWO YEARS HERE HE HAS BEEN UNABLE TO

FIND

JOB WITH SUFFICIENT SALARY PERMIT HIM LIVE COMFORTABLY.

5. PLS ADVISE IF YOU CONCUR WITH THIS METHOD OF HANDLING

REQUESTS FOR INFO ON AMERICANS AND OTHER LAUGERUD REQUESTS.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

1..,

i :"

SEC DISSER

BY…

*SNUNIT NOTMIED_

mreli.

NLEGOPY KAUILOUED

"ГІтА ДУРʼТ

RF . FILE.

YCTÀ: COPIES

SECRET

Fuy tir

REPFODUCTION

By orticn

ISSUING

OFFICE IS

STAFF

- I:

-28.

VR

N

TTONS

т...

981395

E1A767

PAGE B4-D4

TOR : 0822427 JUN 76

IN 944357

SGUAT

19536

6. FILE:

201-08195=5, ZIMERI 2D1-,

35-4-22. EZ. IMPDET.

S EC

E Ti

---

## Page 5

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

