# 104-10138-10449

## Page 1

104-10138-10449

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

11 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Chief, Security Analysis Group

IEMMING.

Gerald Patrick

SP7429 229

1. On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information

concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

was referred to the writer, who is holding the HEMMING

is the action officer for a cable from

i contacted the writer the Guatemala Station

1"' " advised that he

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

"was requested to alert

to the below-mentioned cable

and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report coming in from the Guatemala Station.

(IN 944357,

I provided the writer with a copy of the cable

, dated 8 June 1976),

which is attached..

In substance, the

cable reflects that

8 June 1976 a Guatemalan source, with the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the Guatemala Station

a written report, and a detailed briefing,

concerning a plot

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

According

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

1975; however,

one of the major conspirators,

Jorge Antonio

"Cokie" ZIMERI Safie left

of an attack upon his,

Guatemala in August 1975 as a result

ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since August

According to the report, the National Liberation

Movement was involved with ZIMERI

in the assassination plot

and ZINERI in turn was involved with two Americans, brothers,

assisted ZIMERI in acquiring arms

aircraft.

The report also

ZIMERI has close relations with police officials.

in Miami and New Orleans.

CuAd

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 063994

185%1

---

## Page 2

NOTE: (The Guatemala Station also included

information \the Chief of Station had received

fIom

Ion & June.

said that he

had

been providing information on ZIMERI to the

Guatemalan government for the past six months or

50.

with

He claimed

that two Americans were involved

ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service

in Niami.

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as about six

feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c.

Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-

tial treatment by U. S. authorities which

permit him to carry firearms

to purchase arms and ammunition vell as

shipment to Guatemala?

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

5.

• On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

6.

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

activity,

alleged employment,

employment, it is apparent that peral PatricKy MENG

is identical with the subject of.'Office of Security file

429 229,

who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,

who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who

as

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

company, IEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Miami, Florida.

2

SEGRET

---

## Page 3

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JWAVE.

numerous occasions since at least the early 1960 Skas beene

had claine Agency affiliation when in fact there

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),

long-time record of

FIar: FIORINk'falsely claiming Agency affiliation.

of Watergate notoriety who also has a

the late 1950's HENNING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named

the International

Anti-Connunist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was

named the

Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HENNING, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandun, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;

in America--The CIA and the

is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY.

One of the major

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

JI. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationvide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it i:

interesting that he did

so after Gerald Patrick HEIMING and

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined

GARRISCN's investigation.

Jerry G. Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group

Atts

SECRET

---

