# 104-10119-10316

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10119-10316:

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SUBJECT

DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

1O MAYZZ

FILE NUMBER

HUNT, EVERETT HOWARD, JR."

23500

On this date a recued a call fran Martin,.

la chi ly ta son the geng talent ale

to identify

hack in the post exteraly wed the pos- som

David It John. Lukerskin and he bleed it wan

03 Sies (Itaria Prien, 05+ 37435)

lukoskis said he sealed the information engently

out did not explois the seed an idestify he

ne-

questa.

o is very and tons Hunt

I consulted parmally with Id dayle, SPS in hye that

pla- pass used y

Agency eagloyees whose works,

SRS might have some d had be polite.

Lagle recalled. fron mem

writter sermal.

the pen rand

intet of the

FORM

7.62 | 954

CLASSIFICATION

GROUP 1

AUTOMATIC

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

(40)

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFICATION

DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

10 Mg

72

SUBJECT

FILE NUMBER

HUNT, EVERETT HOWARD, JR.

23500

nor had been to provide

a series similar to the

fames Band novels, presenting a fronable songs

of the Ggency

hoyle said, been under the

are of CI Staff. It had not, he anded,

perred vy succesaful.

Select file uplecte that he retice 30 qie 1970

en 1971 asagned to the whit

Howa Staff an a Consultent to Preondent Ripon in

connection will the Pradents Chiss Trig.

tressuch in blest hand written under the

guidance of

cI baff, layle adored apsst identi

unty Chief, CE Huff (Ree Line 1054), a Ma Cop

tom, Chiy, cI bloff.

I called Mr. Luposkie on Red Line 1978. In li

absenced advised Cles, his scantig, th

that d did

OFFICE AND TITLE

FORM

GROUP 1

7.62 | 954

CLASSIFICATION

OECLASSIPICATIO

(40)

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION

DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT

FILE NUMBER

HUNT, EVERETT HOWARD, JR.

23500

not have the anthrity to idestify Dove It

the he is ten st Me Peculi eter.

at no time die l identify fleet as the man of

the jeer-nome Doin It. John.

OFFICE AND TITLE

5. BM

1954

13.227

GROUP 1

CLASSIFICATION

(40)

---

