— a f 4
4 92
“*404-10295-10004) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 19!

29 August 1962

a

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD :

SUBJECT: Sumary of S/W Training and Issuance of Materials.
: AGENT : AMLASH/1
PLECE : Paris, France
DATE : 17-22 August 1962
TRAINER: Richard M. Fallucei, Pw C/o. fiesese

i 1. AMLASH/1 was instructed in S/W techniques by the under-
H signed in a Paris Station safehouse on 17 and 18 August, and was '
! given an S/d review in the final briefing session held in the hotel
i oom of Wallace A. Growery (Madrid Station C/O) on 22 August.

H Instruction was given in the use of carbon writing system No, 15136
H and in the use of liquid developer system No. 56638. The "scorch"
i nethod of development was also dencustrated to a/1 as an alternate

system. A total of five hours was devoted to this instruction.

2. A/1, who was recruited a short time prior to coming to
Paris, was introduced to the idea of using S/W by the undersigned
during discussions held in Copenhagen. Although for security
considerations, he was skeptical at first about using such a means
of communication, he was without widue effort convinced that any * H
productive relationship depended uron his being able to communicate :
with his C/o on a regular basis through. the medium of S/# letters i
sent through normal mail channels. It was apparent from his early i :
guestions that he was unfamiliar with the principles of S/d and clandes- ,
tine communications in general. after further talks in Paris with
Gtowery on 16 August, 4/1 was fully prepared to ancept the concent
of S/W conmunications,, and arrangezents were made for this instruction a
to begin the following day.

3. ‘The first training session on 17 August lasted a little
more than two hours, and was devoted to an explanation of the S/i : wpe
system of conmmnication, including careful instruction in the Gee a
preparation of a letter containing S/¥. 4/1 also prepared an S/w '
letter of his ovn under the supervision of the undersigned. He
seemed to grasp readily the princip}es of the preparation of an Sha



|

—

\
i ale ist
messaze and experienced only a little difficulty at first in remenber-
ing all the steps in sequence necessary for the preparation of an S/W
message. He was generally attentive to the instruction given. How-
ever, in keeping with his terperment, he was a little impatient
during the preparation of the S/w message itself upon the cover
letter. At the end of this session, he demonstrated that he remembered
the basic steps in a satisfactory manner, particularly considering
that it wae his first day in S/W instruction.

4. The second period of instruction took place in the same
safehouse, lasting about two hours. This session was devoted to a
review of the S/a procedures and the preparation by A/L of another
practice S/W letter. Following this, A/1 was instructed in the
development of S/¥ messages, using the liquid developer No. 56638
The scorch system of development was also demonstrated. A/1 was
inpressed by the simplicity of the liquid developer and the immediate
reaction which it produced. The undersigned developed one message;
then 4/1 was allowed to prepare the developer from its dry pill form
and to develop a second practice S/W message for himself. Following
the pericd devoted to S/w development, a general review of S/W
communications was held, the basic points apparently being well-fixed
in #/1's mind. :

5. During the final formal meeting with A/1 ua 22 August

with Grovery and the undersigned participating, the latter gave A/1

@ general review of all the S/i procedures which were to be used

in his contact with KUBARK. He also was provided with the following

items:
A. ‘wo sheets of S/w carbon paper ( No. 136}

B. Forty-seven pills of developer ( No. 56638

C. One tablet of writing paper provided by TSD and
known to be compatible with the carbon sheets.

D. 3 No. 2 pezcils of French manufacture,

B. One ball-point pen with water-resistant ink,

F. Two acconcdation addresses: one in Madrid for
regular ccntact; one in New York City for rapid
emergency contact (see attached S/W data sheet).

G. Appropriate indicators (see S/w data sheet)

It is noted that 4/1 did not have a secure accomodation address in
PBRUMEN to give us at this time. He was told, hoever, that it was
imperative that he provide one for us by S/W letter within two weeks
of his return to PRRUMEN. This he stated he would do,

6. During the last S/W review, A/1 was shown a photograph
of one of his practice messazes which he had prepared, He was quite
interested in seeing this, which served to illustrate a number of the
training points which had been covered during previous instruction.

f
i
i



|
|
{

Generally, A/1 yas an interested pupil and it is believed that he
will be able to carry out the instructions in a proper manner. He
is quite security conscious, a factor which it is believed, will add
to his attempts to seek perfection in his 8/d correspondence and

4n the secure storage of his S/W materials when not in use. It is
‘also know that A/1 practiced his S/d techniques in his hotel room
after leaving the 22 August meeting. This is known because he had
‘an additional question to ask us at a brief meeting on 23 August.

7. Tt should also be noted that the TSD technician who
developed A/1's practice letters recommends that for best results,
‘all letters from A/l be subjected to ammonia fuming before immersion

in the developer.

Richard M, Fallucei

Attachments:
Agent S/W Record
Form #H-55900



REPORT OF S/w TRAINING, PARIS.



AGENT S/W RECORD Date 29 kugust 1962

1 1. Agent Cryptonyn: AMLASH/1

2, SH supplies issued to tho Avent (date and quantity):
2 sheets of carbon S/! paper £15134 and 1:8 pills of developer
{ #56632 both issued on 22 August 1962. ;

Hy 3. Cover correspondence to the arent will be in Spanish and handwritten
or typed; from the agent will be printed or typewritten (in Spanish).

4, Location assigned for placament of S/d text: S/d text will be placed :
on the face of the cover letters agent has, howaver, been instructed H
te check both sides of letters received for S/i. Letters fron the H
agent on face of cover text. i i

5. Accomodation addresses: j

To be supplied by agent in first S/W letter he sends (this to be
by 15 Septexber 1952 at the latest.) |

x Accommodation addresses for letters from the agent: : '
Regular accommodation address: i

Rapid/Daerrency accomodation address:

Agents letters to be signed

6. Re-suppl - arranzemente
If carbons lost: Axent writes cover letter to Mafrid address in
Normal manner, Absence of S/ii messsze indicates loss of cartons and
: Agent 1s to expect next letter he receives to be = re-supply of
| e carbons (in the form of the letter itself).

If developer lost: Agent so indicates in letter to Mairid (in S/d):

re-supply will take place through one of the three Dead Dreps which 1

Agent has teen told to locate and report soonest by S/W. Identity of i

7 Drop utilized and date loaded to be conveyed to Azent throuzh S/W
message developed by "scorch" method... see below.

ro
ry +
reat


7.

Requ!red {ndicatore:
A. For presence of 2/s on letters to the agent: “11 letters to agent
will contain s/7.

B. To indicate loss of writin: nate
writes to Madrid, letter with no 3/.
in 5/2 and so ‘indicates.

1 Gsr’on sheets: Azent
Developer: Azent writes

C, Indicate carton re-supply t; mail: Upon indleation of loss of
carton sheets (seo above), preferatl; the next letter sent to
Agant will te a carion sheet, In any caco a-ent unterstands
that any coves letter containing the word "fines" (Spanish for
farm) hae teem written on a carton sheet, which he ‘s then to vse

ar s/! correspondence as needed.

Optional indicatore: Any letter received ty Agent containing the word
"hacienda" ‘n the cover letter is understood to indicate that the
S/s weasage contained therein 13 to ta developed by the "scorch"
syeten.

Danger or control indicators:
Letters fron Agent: Any vord, zark, phrase, ote., after the
Spanish word "FDI" at the end cf the S/# message indicates
agent is under control.

Letters to the Azent: Acknowledgement of Azent's control indicator
le to be made duplicating his "contrel tndicater® tn the

¥
next S/¥ message to hin,

|
|
|
|
|
4



2h

lL
2.

S.

a

yo anus,
“ i .

AGENT 3/\i RECoRD Date 27 August 1952

Agent Cryptonym: AMZASH/1

Si supplies issued to the Asent (date and quaatity):
2 sheets of carban S// paper #15136 and Ld pills of developer
£56538 both issued on 22 August 1952.

Cover correspondence to tha agent will be in Spanish and handwritten
or typed: from the agent will bs printed or typewritten (in Spanish),

Location assigned for placement of S/t text: S/t text will ba placed
en the face of the cover letter; agent has, hovever, been instructed
to check both eides of letters received for SAi, Letters fron the
agent on face of cover text.

Accommodation addresses:

To be supplied by agent in first S/W letter he sends (this to be
by 15 September 1962 at the latest.)

Accommodation addresses for letters from the agent:

6.

e

Regular accommodation address:

Rapid/imergency accomodation address:

Agente letters to be signed

Re-suppl~ arrangements:

if cartons lost: Agent writes cover letter to Madrid address in
normal manner. Absence of S/i messaze indicates loss of carbons and
Agent is to expect next letter he receives to be a re-supply of
carbons (in the form of the letter itself).

If developer lost: Agent so indicates in letter to Madrid (in Sf);
soseuPply will take place through one of the three Dead Drops which
Agent has been told to locate and report soonest by S/u. Identity of
Drop utilized and date loaded to be conveyed to Agent through S/W
message developed by "scorch" method... see below.

i
j
i

|



7. Sequired indicators:
A. Vor presence of S/d on letters to the agent: All letters to agent
will contain s/e,

&. To indicate less of writing materiale: Carton sheets: Azent
writes to Matrid, letter with no o/é¢. Develcper: Azent writes
im S/v and 59 ‘ndicates.

©, Indteate cer'en re-supply by mail: Upon ind‘cation of loss of
carton sheets (see alove), praferatl: the noxt letter sant to Hl
Agent vill ‘@ 0 carton shoot. In any case a-ent understands ‘
that any cover letter contain'ng the vord *finea® (Spantsh for
farm: hap teen eritten on a carion eheet, which he is then to use
Tor s/¢ correspondence as needed.

: 8. Optional indicators: Any letter received by Agent containing. the word
: "hacienda® in the cover letter {s understood to indicate that the
7 S/i message contained therein is to te develoved ly the “scorch”

i system.

&

Danger or control indicators: i
Letters frax Agent: Any vord, mark, phrase, cte., after the i
Sranish word "PIN" at the end of the S/ mesecge ind{cates
agent is under control.

Letters to the Agent: Acknowledgemant of Agent's control indicater
is to be made ty duplicating his "control indicator" tn the
4 next S/d messaze to hin.

2.

Ses

