[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }

104-10096-10223) |

a INSPE, 0R GENERA

~ SECRET

LA/COG/235-77

MEMORANDUM FOR: Benson Grayson
SA/ADDO

FROM. : George V, Lauder
Deputy Chief, Latin America Division

9.

SUBJECT : (Sthiorrz0n-1 Report Mentioning Cuban
Minister-Counsellor Statement on the
Assassination of President Kennedy

(6-7 .-
REFERENCE boa. [kingstort] 22950 (IN 416072)

b. New York Daily News Article, dated
20 September 1977

o2

1. Reference: A{ZRWAHOO intelligence report, mentioned
that the Minister Counsellor (MC) of. the Cuban Embassy in
Kingston, Jamaica addressed the regular monthly meeting of the
Communist Party of Cuba members assigned to Jamaica on 24 Sep-
tember 1977. The MC said, among other things, that Cuban exiles
such as FNU DIAZ LAN and others had been involved in the
assassination of President John F, Kennedy, The MC did not
further elaborate. ae

2, Latin America Division believes that the basis for
the MC's statement was, probably, an article which appeared in
the New York Daily News on 20 September 1977. This article,
which is attached, quoted Maritza LORENZ as saying she, Orlando
BOSCH, Frank STURGIS, Pedro DIAZ Lanz, two. unnamed Cuban. exile
brothers and Lee Harvey OSWALD fowmed an assassination squad
which went to Dallas to assassinate President Kennedy. We know
of no information in Agency files to substantiate that state-
ment. :

WARNING NOTICE :
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
SECRET E2_IMPDET

CL BY 012034

rele tg
se
eee


SECRET

3. There have been various'articles in the past alleging
that Ms. LORENZ was a CIA agent. There is no official file on
Ms. LORENZ, nor is there any information indicating that she
was an agent or employee of this Agency.

6-

4, We have asked)Station kingston] to obtain more
information on the MC's Statement and source, if possible.
We will prepare memoranda for the FBI, the Inspector General,
and the Office of the Legislative Counsel concerning this case
and include any additional information obtained by our Station
in Kingston. The memorandum to the OLC will be for passage to
the House Select Committee on Assassinations.

ast &

George V.-Lauder

‘ Attachment: a/s

ee cf Geiesratesatasstasaiat =

03
DDO/C/LA/COG/ CIOS {Speed}: js (1325) (29 Sept 77)

Distribution:
Orig § 1 - Addressee
1 - LA/COG/Chrono
2 - C/LAD
Gg - Originator
- IG Staff (Scott Breckinridge)
1 - Hold
