# 104-10219-10085

## Page 1

00000

104-10219-10085

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

EYES ONLY

• 15 October 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT

: 1)

Involvement o? George Campbell,

with Mikhail Vlasovich

Ivanov, 201-791386

2)

Possible Identification of Mikhail

Vlasovich Ivanov

as William Hanilton

Martin, 201-282338

1. In 1961 George Campbell was hired by IBM and

sent to Vienna, Austria as a systems engineer. On 11

June 1968, George Campbell, in an interview with an

officer of this Agency, reported a recruitment attempt

by a Soviet employee of the International Atomic Energy

Agency (IAEA), Mikhail Vlasovich Ivanov, which, Campbell

said, had United States security as its ultimate goal.

Campbell gave the following information by way of his

background:

a) that he spent his youth in the state of

Washington

b) that he acquired a BS in mathematics at the

University of Washington (CA 53-56?)

c) that he worked for two years in the engineer-

,ing department of Boeing Aircraft (CA 57-59?)

d) that he then returned to the University of

MS

Washington for a A& in mathematics (CA 59-60?)

e) that subsequent to his acquisition of his

SECRET

EYES ONLY

hip.

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SECRET

EYES ONLY

B3

he was hired by IB4 (61)

(Ivanov (DOB 1 Dec 31) first appeared in the West as

head of the computer section of IAEA in January 1966.

There were no prior traces on Ivanov). Campbell stared

that he first cane into contact with Ivanov in the

sunmer of 1966 (July or August), Campbell further said

that one of his nain jobs was to gain the confidence of

Ivanov with respect to selling to the IAEA an advanced model

of the IBM 360. Campbell went on to relate that his

relationship with Ivanov had developed in such a fashion

as to indicate that Ivanov was developing hin for the

benefit of Soviet Intelligence.

2. Vienna Station, after June 68 interviews,

decided to use Campbell as a 'window' on Ivanov, which

Campbell agreed to. After it appeared to Headquarters:

that Ivanov was sore in control of Campbell than we

were, a decision was made to terminate Campbell's

relationship with Ivanov. The plan to terminate the

relationship has as follows:

a) Canpbell would go to several meetings with

.. Ivanov in which Caspbell would be "wired' for sound

b) Ivanov would then be presented with the

recordings of the meeting, told that 'US security"

had been on to hin all throughout his relationship

2

SECRET

EYES ONLY

1,4 кот 402170 1144

---

## Page 3

4-00000

SECRET

EYES ONLY

with Caspbell, and that he, Ivanor, might be

exposed for utilizing the United Nations activity

(IAEA) as cover for espionage purposes.

On 10 Jan 69 Ivanov was presented with recordings of the

meetings with Campbell, but he refused to take them.

Last available inforation on Ivanov indicates that he

departed Vienna PCS in April 1970. Last available infor-

mation on Campbell is that he was still in Vienna in

January 1970.

3. It will be noted (paragraph one) that Campbell

told the Vienna Station officer, in June 1968, that he

had first met Ivanov in 1966, a period of two ears. It

should be pointed out that a transcript of a conversa-

tion between Campbell and Ivanov (6 Sep 68) mutually

acknowledged knowing each other for ten years. Further,

Campbell was not questioned concerning this discrepancy.

4. In George Campbell's CI/DA folder, there is

identified as a possible trace from

an ONI Investigative

report, dated 1 March 61, one George Sheffield Campbell.

George S. Campbell on 18 Nov 60 (date of interview),

was a graduate student in mathematics at the University

of Nashington. He was being interviewed as a 'developed

informant' in the case of William Hamilton Martin, the

NSA defector. Campbell said that he had met Martin

3

SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

EYES ONLY

through Janes Lyons, a fellow employee at Boeing Air-

(SIC)

plane Cof, in the spring of 1957. (From Jul 56-Jul 57

Willian Hamilton Martin was a graduate student in

mathenatics at University of Washington). (Note that

the transcript of the 6 Sep 68 Ivanov-Campbell necting

indicates that they have known each other since circa

1958 and that the O'l report indicates that Martin had

known Campbell since 1957) •

5. The following information on Willian Hamilton

Martin and family is derived from Martin's Statement of

Personal History filled out in conjunction with his

application for employment with YSA:

a) Father: John Hamilton Martin Dob: 24 Feb 09 °

b) Mother: Nellie Lucillee Martin née Wright

Dob: 3 Dec 12

c) Residences:

A) 1931 William Hanilton MartinDOB) -1935

Georgia

B) 1935-1937 Tennessee

C) August 1937 Washington State

6. A review of Willian Hamilton Martins File,

201-282338, indicates that his parents were traced with

negative results (Memorandum for the file, 21 Sep 60,

filed in 201-282338).

It should be noted, however

SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 5

4-00000

SECRET

EYES ONLY

that the Senate Internal Security Subconmittee (SISS)

lists the following information for one James

Hamilton Martin:

a) Member of International Brigade

b) age (in 1937); 27

c) address:

800 Stewart Avenue, Garden City,

Long Island, New York

d) San Francisco Series Passport $31264,

issued 25 August 1937

(Note that year and month of James Hanilton Martin

passport issue coincide with year and month of William

Hamilton Martin nove to Washington State), It is

conceivable, therefore, that Janes Hanilton Martin and

John Hamilton Martin are connected with the same pass-

port, i.e..

JAMIES

a) The doin Hamilton Martin who went over to

the Spanish Civil War, was killed and the Soviets

substituted an Intelligence Officer in his place.

THIMES

b) that John Hamilton Martin turned his pass-

port in upon arrival in Spain, as

was the practice,

and it was 'lost' and used in a slightly altered

fashion by a Soviet Intelligence Officer.

Also, in its study of the Institute of Pacific Relations

(IPR), the SISS shows that in June 1944 one Nellie

5

or c)

e inis

SECRET

EYES ONLY

L

1515,

.....

---

## Page 6

14-00000

his sit,

Wright, not further identified, was employed in a

clerical capacity by the IPR.

7. It is suggested, at this point, based largely

on the striking facial similarity of Ivanor and

Willian Hamilton Martin, that Ivanov and Nillian

Manilton Martin are one in the same person. Further,

that William Hamilton Martin is possibly Soviet Illegal

Intelligence Officer who 'defected' in 1960 and

reappeared in Vienna in 1966 as !likhail Vlasovich

Ivanov. This theosy, in light of Campbell's relation-

ship with both Martin and Ivanov, would necessitate

Campbells knowledge that Ivanov and Martin were the

sane person. A plausible explanation as to why the

Soviets would risk drawing attention to the Ivanov/

Carpbell relationship lies in the fact that this Agency

installed an audio penetration in Ivanor's apartnent in

Vienna in July 1966. Vienna station, at that time,

suspected ivanov of being a KGB S&T officer. The

Soviets at a later date nay have discovered the audio

penetration of Ivanov's apartnent, at which operations

conerning Campbell nay have been discussed, and decided

that the best nay to protect Ivanov and Carpbell vas to

have

had Campbell 'walk in' and 'tell all'.

8. (Sed dusirf)

6

SECRET

FrES ONLY

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

EYES ONLY

98. OTS has been sent a copy of the photographs

of William lamilton Martin and Mikhail Vlasovich

Ivanov to nake a technical conparison.

George Landrun

CIRA/IS

47.

SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 8

1nsert botton Pago 5 st placo indicated:

o) JiMartin died In the Spanish Glull dar and acquired

..upon ble retura to the Us tiss vilo and faully of the

original Jilartis

d) JiMartin surrived & the Spanish CIrl War and vas

at sono tina recrulted by the Soviet Intelligence

sarTica

insort at botton of page 6s

do Alteriatirely, Iveror say be Willertia, 1.e. Martin say bato

siftalently gained the trust of the Sortets to do posted abroad,

to bandle such assoils as Carpbell.

---

## Page 9

!

8 Jun 10

Jahe CO...

Campled.

Exit af It ANALOG

Res_

1457

Archaró Ral

Mountainside, NT.

Ref

KYT

ANALOG - farmaily

hank

ASTOUNDING....

SIENCE. FICTION

Ruen

in 67

ecitar for 39 years It 1937

degan.

as savenius etc.

decame read smen euge of Scientista

34

-3

7

BRAWNY...

..6 feet - crew Cut

Predicted in 1939 that atomic energy

mando che releace ture U235

After...

45 said next big weapon

maule de paveria by hydragen

during WWII his steries an

atomic

energy were so speufic

that FBI innestyated him

Aut decidio to let continue

publing as to dared tommmand

cause suspicion

Son ay A GIT 4 out 8S Phyeich

at Duke

Wrote Sri te durny deprecion o dicame

Mader in ficia..

---

## Page 10

Cou what is date of Ivanot

plesto-? does it corselate

with Matris plato juies

June 1962? Looks like

jessoss /visa ploto - where did

we acquire - does mis

wean Ivanor. has been

outside AssR a does

porth you suggest mean

Mattin assumed identity

for use in.

latter, in why crew rather

melikel.

Satk

17.10.79

---

## Page 11

it acto

1022 on

• parents

FE:

Sza =

l'arce

sapplemental tial," l'.

Velerans of tra

Addres and abortenous tater tution

nel Brigado

surela se

?. To lone

Inant. N. T

wlint. Otra.

Costirued

Parapan nosebre

MARCE

Bao liste

Fan Press

Ban TI

84.11847

Tortire

ADITI

братиадтандтй:

Ban Preartso

Єза і

Date terrt

May

2E00B006524

m2032H2т2a020h02

ATt

ECUPE

OF MOVIET ACTNITY IN TIIF

UNITEN STATES

ACOPE

OF 80

---

## Page 12

1861, 1149

1087

•ст.

too

Hashing

1917

FR

8838

nico

sent ley,

ENDERES SCREEN DESERTEE

TE S

The Boore lat mcrudes ooly

alT by regional obloc

Pacito Coumoll, Inalitato

18 does bol Lucks!

етьоатоісторвицтв

1 Pacito Relaliong Stall estralara, 1987-1951

Nam

Poditor

FEE FER

1128

2VH1, 119

TITT

„..

---

