104-10219-10153| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 | a

PILE TITLE:

tons: PVAKEL, femen Fé.
2O/- OMNIS A3.. VOL D

INCLUSIVE DATES: _ 69 5 Def /9SG -— 14 Teel /925,
“CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: ~ZELO_

ae
DELLTIONS, TR ANY: JO

Lee Te



see Vou Ltt



(Re 61OeRES" Ee] secret] CONFIDENTIAL «C] US GMty =) UNCLASSIFIED

“E] uucassirieo Oper CO conrip:-stak =, (2%) , SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

COMMENTS (Number each comment to thew tom whom
y

C/WH/PERS
iia

Pia Renchan.
Pe Conv. rhs ale
With Chaelitta BR wnfe-y
this man (5 Foeegn watt
We need fra. ws te have,

Bs, (i
pee re tafe a

eet Mor woth —
EY eanded



ttt) CU Ulta

14 July 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division
SUBJECT % Raysond H, GERENDE, Contract Amendaent

1, It is requested that the contract, ae enended
for Raymond H. GERENDE, Contract Agent, be further :
snended as follows.

@. Increase compensation to $6500. per year
effective L July 1965.

b. Extend period of contract for one year frow
i date of expiration.

2, Tha recommendation of the Mexico City Station,
concurred with by WHD, was based on his demonstrated
technical ability and professional competence,

Willian V. Bree
Chief .
Western Heaisphere Division



rene
SECRE
Mr. Raymond H. Gerende

Dear Mr. Gerende:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as;
represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 October 1955, as amended.

Effective 1 July 1965 said contract, as amended, is further amended by
deleting the figure $6000 from the first sentence of paragraph one (1) entitled
"Compensation" and substituting in lieu thereof the figure $6500.

Effective 1 October 1965 said contract, as amended, is extended for a
period of one (1) year.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in
full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

wiht MY J Latte.
w Contracting Officer f Eo

“A

tt eein Bch = EA a Ae



neces

: : ~ DATH:__2 July 1965

YaD “GENT BOALD
Part I - hequest for Action

Raymuad H, GeksNDS
Name (Pseuccnys)

Contruct Agent

STATUS (Career agent, Contract A;ent,
Centzect Employee)

—BRaige in salary - $500 per annus 0
PROPOSED ACTION (Inclvce Eranch snc/or field recommendations;
specific operation:) trs: performec by in-
divicusl; vicws re long 2nc/or short range-
utility of incivicuel for Branch area ang over-
a #21 Division reeds)

The contract for Raymond H. GERENDE expires on 20 September
1965, :The Mexico City Station has recommended that the contract
be extended for one year, ond that GERENDE be granted o salary
increase from $6,000 to $6,500 per annum,

: GERENDE received his last salary raise on 1 August 1963,
i from $5,500 to $6,000. He was first placed under contract on
: 1 October 1955 at $3,600.

There are sufficient funds in the LIEMPTY Project to cover
this salary increase, and GERENDE's local cover job can logically
cover this additional incone.

i BOALD ACTICN: DATE:

Ssciunt

201-5



> : Date:

: WHD AGENT BOARD
Part II - Biographic Data

= : 7 mah '
Pseuco ix new ark cat) CITIZENSHID 201 Nuaker i
Raymond H, GERENDE 7 Dec 1933 Mexican 201-119523 H
MARITAL STATUS DEPEXDENTS~-RELATIONSHIP--DCB H
wife: 2 sons ~ 4 and 1 ‘ :
Hester Roos de Alvarez 1 daughter - 6 yrs old
EDUCATION
Dates Name of School Location Degree Major Studies
1952 American High School Mexico City high school
1955 Mexico City College Mexico City B.A. Latin American Studies

FOREIGN LANGUAGZ ABILITIES--Indicate Proficiency--R-¥-S-U

English = native)
Spanish - native)
French = poor

bilingual

NON-AGENCY EXPERIENCE--Include Military Service (5 years prior to
Agency connection)

Salary/
Dates Name of Employer Location Job or Function Grade
Other than part time jobs which were many:
May 1953-
Dec 1954 Roger McCann & Chas Davis, Hexico City, Sales Manager $40-50/aontt

AGENCY EXPERIENCE--Staff Contract|7> Career” | Contract /~}
Agent */ Agent Eaployee 7

Dates *Cover Employer Name Location Basic Salary Ops Tasks
Mar 1955 Farolitos de Mexico Mexico City $3,600 Member of surveill- ©
(bona fide) salary offset ance tean, cutout/
P.A to phogographic
bashouses, investi-
gator, etc. base-
house operator asd
Processor of tapes

:
;
i

*Indicate also nature of business and whether bona fide or Agency
mechanisa.

SECRET : vd ats
é


WHD AGENT BOARD
Part III

Chronosogical Narretive
Performance Report

NAMZ/PSEUDONYM:

I re ie dtd Sees select seseuscueeseU SCC sEUeseu SECC
(Summary of evaluation of past performance /if applicable7 with emphasis

and cetails of current performance for sssigne¢ operational tasss)
DATES LOCATION AGENCY TASK

GERENDE was: recruited in March 1955, just prior to his graduation from
the Mexico City College. He was trained as a member of a surveillance
team, and was also used as an investigator to collect operational data
on persons and organizations of interest to the Station. He quickly
demonstrated a capacity for leadership and at one time was leader of
the team.

He was also used as a basehouse keeper in an audio operation and
processor of tapes, He exailed in this type of work because of his bi-
lingual Spanish/English facility, and, more importantly, due to his div er-
sified experience in clandestine operations which permited him to spot
operational leads,

Since 1958 his primary use has been as main cutout/principal agent
to a group of photographic basehouses targeted against the Soviet Embassy,
and one mobile photographic truck. He processes the raw photographic t ake
and services the majority of the accomodation addresses used by the
Station, He has contributed significantly to the AMROD operation

He performs all his tasks in a professional manner. He is well suited
to intelligence work, and plans to make KUBARK his career. The Station
depends heavily on him because of his knowledge of Mexico, and his mobility
as a Mexican, He works full time for KUBARK; cover company requires very
little time.

In cas ft lew Hire” give © personality assessment in terms of
capability, attitude, and projected suitability; state names of
Division personnel who have interviewed him; give account of his
performance in current non-Agency job.

SECRET



wee

NO INDE KING RECLNED
oray Quauiner Bese
CAN R0CE eID
microrius

Reference: HM6l-13688, 7 June 1965

1. Reference notified Station Mexico City that the current contract
for Raymond H, GERENDE vill expire cn 30 Septenber 1965. In recognition
of GIRIDS's increased operational responsibility ani the professicnal
manner in which he carries out hie operational assignments, it is requested _
that his contract be anended to provide for a“salary increase froa iia
$6,000 U. S. per annun to $6,500 per annum.

. >... Project: LIEMPTY.can absorb this additional expense and QERENDS's
tack cover rip can logically cover this additional income,

Onttit Kb
for
Willard C, CURTIS

tributions
¢/vaD



10 natal

wae PhicLof. station, sexice City.

——~ Chief, bu. bivision
‘weact

Pity Loin:
Terorniguned Raul

Reference: USA-24,220

1, The contract for GERENDE expires on 30 September

1965.

Please not!fy Headquarters whether you wish to have

the contract extended another year, and whether any changes

are desired.

2. Headquarters rogrets that the Station inadvertently

was not notified last year of the extension of the contract.

Distribution:
0 & 1 + COS, Mexico City

TS

i Desmond Fit: Geraid



Le A OE OSL

”

f : fe
carHanrae . :
Raymond 1. Gerends
: 2 October 1964 aes
este Meentec ee eece eee etet eee eeu en wt 3 October 1955
eaten “3

one Gi) year

hi ne Dg taataaen eta le te



MEBOBANDUE FOR: Contrect Fersvonel Division
FROu & Renewal of Contract of Raymond
GERENDE

Please extend for a period of ope (1)
year without change the contract of Reymond H,
GEREKDE, Contact Agent. The contract expires...
on 30 September 1964.

¥. £. Brooks
Chiet 72 Bupport

Distribution:
Orig ~ Contract Personnel Div.

v= Bibjece ;

et

bit see rasveny

M cagscoties ene



Case cATON
SZCRET

Reference: H4W-1264, 21 Auguat 196%
It {8 requested that Subject's contract be reneved as presently vritten.

No changes are requested at this tine.

I
a

we onten etmate mene aay ar

Distribution:
3 - C/wuD



Chief, WH Division fe meron

iaaer
Raymond A. GERENDE

BETO EGU PETE

PeR-1-0-R-1-T-Y¥
Bubject's contract will expire on 30 feptesber 1964.

Please advise by return dispatch whether the contract should

be renewed and if any changes are desired,

Chester D. DAIROLD

Distribution:
G&l - COS, Mexico City

“CEOS REFERENCE TO DRPATON SYMBOL AND MBER can QZ AUG WO

py OMW-12844 21 August 1964
? GASIFICATION GS FE OBER
BECRET ! 201-119523
= Corry ry Test Tr
WH/I/R. L. Lehman:chk 14506
COORD MATING

“Orrick SEOUL Tate 7 OrriceRS WANE

‘Orrick simact | OATE Ornces SORATCRE
Sef abe see HeCe tae gat tow
C/WHD. i-Desrond F. id

a DISPATCH |

;
a i

5



) SECRET oy.

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW
TO:

Wi/3/Maxtee =

FROM: CHIEF, ©1/0A

ORDER THAT FIMTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIYEN YCUR REGUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE. IT 1S REQUESTED
T YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

eevite oF
evice oF

i oF
fevite oF

‘ATvacetd aereatnce
Ointws (doe Booarbad

Please come to CI/OL te discuss FIMA-22920,

Fore
£003 B89 os

‘SECRET ae

u
ee



: : oa : oa pee

70
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

wo

iene
\Chtef of Sta

SUBAET
Reysond KR. GERSIDE

Reference: EMMW-122E4 dated 2h Jamary 1964

1, Station Mexico City fully arrecs with Headquarters evaluation of Subject as
@ “valuable long tera asset with stay behind potential." In order to place the matter
of the 2,100 pesos in the apropriste frame of reference it is felt that a few tack-
ground points should be noted.

In Jercary 1956 the LIMMTY/LILYRIC basehouse was set up end placed in operation
dna site which provided visual ecver of the LIMGRICK installntion. A derosit of
three months rent was cade per teiz3 of the rental contract at tha: tine (2,1(0 pesos.)
In April 1961 the building in which LIEMPTY/LILYRIC is located was sold by the omer,
Yorsally the rental desosit wouli nave been trensferred to the nev comer as yart of
the sole transaction, Mowever, e>,roximately turce months efter the transfer of the
property to the new omer, the rental deposit was returned to the besehouse operator,
LIEWTY-13. The deposit was then returned to GERENDE, GSRENDE afd not infora the
then LI°TY case officer nor the present case officer ef the retirm of the MPTY /
LILYRIC ceposit. Ti:is 2,100 peses continued to be carrted on the Stetion boo’
en outstanding operntional advance charged to GUIDE, GUUIDs us rt of this
2,160 pesos to maze loans to tvo szb-acents (LI-MTY-6 ani LIQLTY-9.) It is probably
that he also used sore of this on occassion for his om purposes.

On 16 October 1963 QERENDE returned tha 2,100 pesos to the case officer and the
Station hes. adjusted its books to reflect the return of this aoney, O=RENDE noted
at the tise of the return that he had this money intact but did nct know how to go
about retumning it so long after raving received it. This is the case as he stated at
he time of the LCFLUTT=R interview. GEREMDE vas obviously inpressed with his inability
to “beat” the LCFIWITER, He was sincerely reaorseful when talking to the case officer

(Cont imed)

Distribution:
OS is

wat

17 February 1904

ngs UL AER
201-119523

i


|

about the incident ent has tvice ctated that nothing of this nature vould hagpen again.
With the reality of future LOPLUTTER tests set fimly in O-RENDZ's mind, it 1s believed
that he will not attespt any cuca action again.

As to what can be done of a positive nature (other than perioite re-LCPLUITER) to
prevent recurrence {t wust be roted that G.ANDE kept ojart the 2,10 posoe which vers
really ctill charged to hia and the Station had no vay of knovins thet the aorey
been returned to biz by the beseacusezeezer. Only when the close <cxn of the LI2
LILYRIC taschouse would be effected would the Station exyect to have the rental deposit
returned. Until such tine the deposit would remain charged to G-ANDE. The only ¥:
to completely safeguard against this type of action would be for the case officer to
neet directly with the basehouse keepers, thereby elintnating GERAD2 from the opereti
ani causing unaccepteble security risks. It 19 believed that pertodic LCFLUIT:R of
GSRENDE is the best insurance against a siztlar occurence in the future.

As to GERSDE's regular operational rcvolving fund, irregularities have never
been discovered in his handling of these funds. Cash counts are catucted bv: the
case officer to control the unspent porticn of the revolving funi by cczparison with
accountings (receipts) GZUNDA takes every tuo weeks, GiLNDS's revolving fund ts
kept at the minimm asount consistant with efficient conduct of the operation for vhich
GERENDZ is responsible.

The “other false claims” G2R-NDE adzitted making involved occasional use of his
GP vehicle for personal driving while entering all receipts for gas cn his KUBARK
accountings. Station does not consider this a major provlem. If G3cNDE used his ue
car for only operational employment any hostile surveillance of him vould be relatively
easy (i.e., surveilling only when he is using his QP vehicle) and it is believed that
latitude must be allowed in this area for indigenous agents.

2. In the area of GERSND3's moralsand his statement that he “is not being
utilized to his full potential” the Station is as fully concerned as Headquarters. It
should be noted however, thot C-R:2IDE has never written the report setting rorth viat
he thinks he can do and when proided on this has stated that he had becn thinking about
vhat additional work he could assume and that he "Juct does not know". The reason ho
gives 1s he docs not know what elce is being dame in the operations aren other than thet|
to Watch he is already exposed, Additional operational vork is assigned to G2RENTS
when this can be done securely and taking into account conpartmentation of operaticns.
An example of this vas his introduction to the AMROD operation. Station is reluctant
to expose OKIE to additionel operations only for the purpose of ‘Inproving his norale”
since he already has considerable kmovleige of many Station past and going operations.
The Station appreciates Headquarters comaents on the results of Q2RENDZ'a LCFLUITER
and will make every effort to determine the best possible utilization of GiAZNDg in

Gaacsnunee ST ree
tc oe
aA wo ne SECRET/RYBAT bd

HCH AN SISO



EF BDH EAB aL SECRE Thou

ir) i

Chief of Station, Mexico City "
aeo. Seema !

ery

Chief, WH Division i

1. Reference is made to the results :f the LCFLUTTER interview
of Raymond H. GERENDE which was held on 8 October 1963. Headquarters
would like to have a progress report on what steps have been taken
by the Case Officer with regard to the 2,100 pesos which he had
kept but belc.ged to KUBARK, Headquarters is also interested in
what has been done about other false claims he admitted making in
bis accountings, and what precautions are being taken to see that
this does not continue in the future.

2. The Station's comments are requested on GERENDE's statement
that he fe not being utilized to his full potential and that he
often has free tice, Hcadquarters would be intercsted in seeing
Q copy of the report which the LCFLUTTER examiner suggested he write,
setting forth what he (Gik:NDE) thint:n he can do and what he would
like to do, Headquarters consicors GHREXDE a valuable long tern
asset with staybehing potential, and it is hoped that the Station
will do what it can within the limits of security, to raise his morale
and gee that KUHARK is receiving full benefit of his services.

Oliver G. GALBOND '

O&1-COS, Kexico City

pi

(yrrnt

|

ec-CI/0A
1-RI

‘
I Distribution:
i 1-Chrono

13" 53° use previous eormon

‘SESSLER TITERS 70 Che er
|
Te lomdpengeone |
"| DISPATCH |



a “a SECRET ay

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

ie Wi/3/Mexico - aie :
C= 32743 :

FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA gy pavara P. Brown
:

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL Im THIS CASE, IT 1S REQUESTED :
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED. :

suesect:

‘stari/o bos
OF _STAFF/O COLLATE@AL INFORMATION

t Of StcuniTy ore. eePoRT at Ci/On
Rivite OF Stc. OFF, CostuaRENCE MEwo aT C1/0A
or fer atroat at €1/0n

OF AVTACHED @EFERENCE

jOmAL AND Division TeACES weview
ESUATS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION
aten vist Otnias (Seo Roasrbe)

RCUARESE



HS IOF7

Aumnt M3

Aticohed Is exerted copy of TLERCS ARICIANT

with retsrunoe,

1
3a th wat

2 Ge)



i

“wirazsae east

ir, Raymeud 4. Geraude

Nosy Mare Goraccer

corbzent with the Gudted Statas Gareriisset,
{ Olftcer, ettwetive tf teser 6485, 90

Heieraace le made ta yee
bd capresontd
amoased,

sl, He tmeniod, i¢ farther
Hirst eenteaes of parsgrape

Eifective t

AL atner teres awd cer
in Gl force nid effect,

helene
EMITTED STATES COVERMUEKT
wy
avecthig Gnicer
ACCEPTED

Rtyavena bu Gerrade

APPROVED:

i
i
i


29 July 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJSCTs Increase in Compensation,
Raymond HK. GERENDE

Ll, {t 18 requested that the contract, ss amended, for
Raymend H, GERENDE be further amended to provide increase in
compensation from $5,500 per annum to $6,009 per annum,

2, This request, submitted by the Mexico Station and
concurred with by WH Division is in recognition of GtR=NDEts
Oporationel responsibilities and the manner in which he
carvies out his operational assignments,

W. E, BROOKS
Chief, WH Support

es



Nan

Chief of Station, Moxice City X | cess eres

czy a om quar cee
mia ts ance woos

Chief, WH Division cares

Raymond H. GEREHDE/Contract Renewal

fhe contract of Raymond AH, GFRENDE expires on 30

September 1963. It is requested that the Station for-

ward a request for renewal, together with any changes

or azendments desired, to arrive at Headquarters by 1

September,

END OP DISPATCH

Distributions
0 & 1 = COS, Mexico City

Bol- 9522

AL JUL 383
3 July 1963

WQS FRE HUMBER

201-119523

wre waa ee oT
VY." Bard

WH/3/¥axico

RELEASING.

for 2b

DISPATCH



BE RA CALA ESO EST LT MN Bae Pk MM RET Ls TREE TIE Ta PTI

a resogdition of (RN's operational responsibility
<<) eng the camer tn de he carries out his operctional exaign-
mvia, $8 Le roquested that bis contract be ammeied to grent

- his @ colary increase fran $5,500.00 p.a. to $6,009.00 p.8.

+ eShectien A Jety 1953.



oA ey

201- “239 :
HMMA~. am €or .* -
. MAR

VUE ULUTD ETE EL

Sug iness ASSOCIATE. 1N CUNASA OF VADTTIAAWTLIAIANZ= 2
- GUILLERMO SALAZAR POLANCO colada

393999393932329299909
. . Wer CRMC CCCCOOCOOOO ILS

das tee 7 ae ; ag SHSSSSSSSSSSHSSSSSSSS

i ce iain - COEsE OS ERScE ESE SOEOES

era Laan
(Lecceesetoasesseceses

é


vax LerLutrer CANDIDATES# RARDKD H. GERENDE CoMLTPOUAL), ; _ :
ou.tven’ @. SCANPLIEG GILL), Lienace-
peracid

Panta), LIEHBRACE oS COPANISWD ,LIETERACE-9_
Ft

fay AWOTE © PLAB USE LIEsBRACE-S, SURVEDLLANCE
Teast eanee, AS INTERPRETER FoR OTHER LILABRACE TEAR - sevens), i
nese 2 GILIMsuALD, LIP ERE*4 (SPANISH) AND ) LIPIRESS © (SPANISH)
Rae ‘STAT IDS Asser AVATLADLE IRTERPRET FOR Li LOFLUTTER’ or

4 BD 50 uP | LepLurres OPfRatcrs Do nor SPEAK SPANISH Aid nas
SOrBAPRETER ror TH3e PURPOSe?7) Ltxoror-aa CENGL ISH). iF: i
ies ALGO beeing LerLurtER Liwat-7, L eeeoidael Linotorei9; |

i) ran LerummeR TEAM LEAVIN 308 sot 10 ole pres CANDIDATES AND
FOR WHICH ee AVAILASLE.



“a. a2
° CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ~~ el Shad 523 i
onc: Chaztotte Bus. .s:84 i
unt: WH/3/¥exico SECRET i
er. 5940

DATE: 4 Dec 6
10 C_ spare
From: DIRECTOR
conr; WH B 2

ci/oa, ccs 2, S/e 2

co MEXI INFO cite oie 03359 02369

REY mota~-19978"

GERENDE CONTRACT AMEND"ED 8 NOV TO INCLUDE CHRISTHAS
BONUS.
END OF MESSAGE

WH CUT: “Requested amendsent for Raymond H. GERENDE (201-119523)
enrs for a one month's bonus at Christmas.

ROUTIKS

RID/UIS
beets tn acal

c/aB/:

'
AUTHENTICATING H
cornices i

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. (Copy No.



Cafefg of Station, Mexico City

Chief, WH Division

Ref: MMHA-19978
Attached is a copy of the contract amendment providing
Subject with a Christmas bonus.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachment: 1

Distribution:
O&1l = COS, Kexico City

5
a

Eesana = pmsParcn



SECRET

18 October 195

ESMOFAIDUS FORs Chief, Pinsnce Divistea
Vike Chief, Cantrsct Forcommel Livision
EWsCRs Reysond B, GRAETB, Contract Ansutacat

2, Bffective 18 Ostober 1%, ths eortrest (os arended)
fer Raymond H, Ch cEWE dated 1 Cetsber 1955 is azended te
provide aa amtusl Coriatsss bens equal to ooo moath's begis
ecspenratione

8. All other provieions of the centrost es sacnied vemin
in offerte

APPROVED e

(5) [bide

“Wesclat Cantracting Oificas

Sensey’

eConkd,



18 October 1962

MERORANDUM TO: Contract Personuel Division
SUBJECT 2 Raymond H. GERENDS (ps)

1. It 4s requested that the current contract for
Rayrond H. GERENDZ, be anonded to include s Christmas
bonus of one month's salary. This amendment should bo
affective tumediately.

2. GBRENDE is an indigonous ngent, and this
Caristeas bonus is normal for all eaployecs in Hexico.

Paul BE. Arneson
C/WH/Support

cep

WH/Pers
C/H/Support
Subject

pn

gone



By

po

a
_ DISPATCH

° Chief, WH Division

cr ee
PUCQUATDS ose
Cin Rod aC
aestenct

Chief of Station, Mexico City SNL
Raymond H, GERENDE (ps)
aes

It is requested that Headquarters initiate the appropriate amendment
to Subject's contract go that it will Include as Christmas bonus one month's
salary. This Christmas bonus is normal for all indigenous employees in

Mexico, and should be included in Subject's contract,

Wterd Gos

Distrjbutton:
&= C/WHD

2- Files

‘One PED

B Oct. 1962

DESPRTON SYMBOL ANO MASSER
IMMA - 19978;KAPOK-1991



CLASSIFIED WESSAGE ay,
SECRET

ROUTING

CEH oceba! oe jy
- 085 :

2 DIRECTOR

“FROM :, MEXICO CITY SEP 18 04352 62

ACTION: “ee 6
INFO: ¢1, cI/oPS, CI/OA, WH 7, S/C 2 ROUTINE,

IN 23918

TER CITE MEXI 1957 COUSLER ACTING)
aaaamnnema :

NYXIS BEDOK -

1. DUE LATE WORD THAT LAW SCKOOL STARTS 17 SEPT BETUMBLE

DEPARTED, MEXI 17 SEPT VIA AMERICAN FLIGHT 58. INSTRUCTED THAT HQS MAY

baat ALTHCUGH FINANCES (INCL. SALARY aoe 17 SEPT, OPS EXPENSES,
TRAVEL AND 59 DOLLARS a EXPENSE AUTHORIZED ORAL anaania)

EUT NOT ‘Boxus) CLEARED MEXI PRIOR HIS DEPARTURE.

2. AT LAST MEET WITH POTASZ 14 SEPT, WHICH AUTHORIZED BY CO,

POTASZ INDICATED ALTHOUGH NOT PARTICULARLY SATISFIED WITH LIFE HE

JONG AGO HAS CHOSEN POLAND. SETUMBLE ASSESSNENT HE WOULD NOT COOPERATE,

WITH KUBARK. POTASZ local HAVE BETUMBLE ADDRESS WASH. : i

!
H ‘ 3. AT DINNER WITH POTASZ 5 SEPT IN tea! BETUMBLE TOOK ALONG



. ‘ :
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE IN 22, PAGE

AUARE GERENDE FRIENDSHIP WITH BETUMSLE CR BETUMBLE PLANS HAVE : '

GERENDE JOIN HIM AND POTAS2 FOR DINNER. DUE GERENDE SENSITIVE

STATUS AND LACK RAPPCRT BETWEEN HIN AND POTASZ DOUBT ANY FURTHER

DEVELOPHENT ALONG THESE LINES CAN BE EXPECTED.

_ 4e, POUCKING REPORT BETUMBLE TDY EVENTS.

END OF MESSSAGE



| Eee cece an
DISPATCH |

Chief, Wh Division

Chief of Station, Mexisv City

Contrast Ame:rize:
Bayzond Y. cERTe

8 February 1962
Attachsent, - as stated
DISTRIBUTION

3-Wi Division w/attachaent
2-Files

Forwarded herovita are copies cf a scotragt amendment for

Subject effective 1 January Ade.



DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Eoxico City

Caicf, 1H Division

 peymond #H, GEREM Contract dsendeont

TEN LQURED RUN FENES

1. Attached please find the original and two copies of the above Subject's
contract srondaent, affeetive 1 Jamury 1962 and increasing Subject's coxpensa-
tion from §50k0 to $5500.

2. The original copy is to be retained in the Field, and a aigned carton
copy of the exsndzent returned to Headquarters,

3. 411 other terns of tho contract resain in full force.

Tsar

SECRET

‘
Seo 53



gf -

3
ol UF so

27 Decewber 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contrect Personnel Division

SUBJECT 1 Raywoud H, GERERDE (ps)

It fe requested that the contract for Raysond H. OFRENDE, renewed
on October 1961 for a period of two years, be ecended to reflect an increase
fin annual salary from the eurrent $5,030 to $5,500, This increase in salary

should be effective 1 January 1962,

HED P, HOLMAN
Chiez, WI/3
(SIGNED) P. E. RENESON
concur:
TAR/Support



S-E-C-R-E-T

Mr. Raymond H. Gerende

Dear Mr. Gorende: ‘

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, jae
as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 October 1955, as
amended,

I
[i
|

1
: |

revenreetems:

Effective 1 January 1962, said contract, ae amended, is further
amended by deleting the figure $5540 from the {iret sentence of paragraph
one (1), entitled “Compensation, " and subetituting in lieu thereof the {igure
$5500,

All other terme ard conditions of the contract, as amended, remain
in full force and effect.

You will please indicate your approval by signing in the space provided

i i
{ below, | x
y UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT i
; | 4
: BY eae
t Contracting Officer 4
ACCEPTED: af
: Raymond H. Gerende
r : WITNESS: occ i
t i
APPROVED!, i
. fl

8-E-C-R-E-T



SECRET

27 Deceaber 1961 .

MEYOWAHOUM FOR: Contract Personnel Division
suayecr + Raywond H, GERERDB (ps)

It fe requested that the contract for Rayeond H. GEREHDE, renewed
on Oatober 1961 for @ period of two yesrs, be auended to reflect an increase
in Guntel salary free the current $5,080 to $5,500, This increase in salety

should be effective 3 Jomary 1962,

WED P, ROMAN
Chief, Wi/3



o}:
i

MiorAIUn fe
IKAPOK- 194
io CHEE, WH Diviston Teenauan a

180

201-119523

"°°'Enlef of Station, Mexico City aie Vite
suneT i RE: OT — 1O+EK “I ONS

LIEMPTY/Raymond H, GERENDE (ps)

‘Kchione teQUIED

Amendment of Subject’s contract

crest

HMMW-9364, 29 December 1960

1, By reference Subject's annual salary was pereeee to tis present
figure of US $5, 040,00,

2, Station hereby requests a further increase in Subject's annual
salary to US $5, 500,00 based upon Subject's outstanding performance as
Principal Agent in the LIEMPTY project, The latest LIEMPTY Project
Renewal Request, recently forwarded to Headquarters, detailed GERENDE's
duties, In Station's opinion, the noted salary increase is considered justified
not only from agent's excellent job performance, but also as an incentive
to continued superior work as well as an offset to the inflationary trend of
the cost of living In Mexico,

3. It ts requested that Headquarters initlate the appropriate amend-
ment to GERENDE's contract increasing his yearly salary to themted figure
of US $5, £10, 00 to be effective | January 1962,

Mikecd se

Il December 1961

Distr button:
‘g- WHD

SE EOE STON CASSINCATION.

SECRET/KAPOK

Saamere



PEVERIACS: HAVA-17199, b Angast 1961

Effective 1 October 1961, the contract (eo amended) for GEZENDS, effective
1 Osteber 195%, ip extended for a period of tuo (2) years. All other terms and
conditions of the contrast (os amended) renain in full force and effect.

END OF DISPATCH

t- oe ae
= WY Pegistry
i ———

(SORDINATING
force srw.

| DISPATCH



é

} SECRiN i
i (hen Ftited In) i
{ i
| MEMCRANDU-A FOR? Chief, Finance Uivision .
| FROA  Gontzant Parmonnsl Division :
H i
| SUBJECT 2 Contract Extoniion foF Raymond be GERENDE——

|

| 1. Effective | 4 gatapee agbh——-' the contract [48 « nended)

| for the subject indivituai, efivctive _ 4 g tgsg.—' 18 extended

for a period of

i -two-{a} yearo—

2. All other teras and conditions of the contract fas anendsd)

remain in full force and effect.

UNSTEL STAITLS CP AMERICA

bY
} i Contracting Officer 4

SECRET
(When Filled If)

&



re

— =

15 August 1961

MEMORANDUM FORs Contract Personnel Divieion

SUBJECT # Raymond H, GERENDE (ps)
Request for Contract Extention

1, It ip requested that effective 1 Ootober 1961, the
contract (as axonded) for Raymond Hl, CERCNDE be extended for
@ period of tvo years or through 30 September 1963,

2. All other terme and conditions of the coxtract should
Tenain in full force and effect.

fed Py Solman
cfn/s
Distribution:
Orig & 1 = Addre /
1 = Subject's 201 tite /
1 ~- Chrono file

Basic EMA-17499, 4 Aug 61,



CACAO

DDATan SevwR AD WO

DISPATCH SECRET HMMA-17499
-_ 201-119523
FROM ietoeed
:_Chlef of Station, Mexico Ciry A August 1961. ___

RE: “43 3" = (C-ECK “X" ONE)
Raymond H, GERENDE/Contract Renewal

ALTON BEOURED
~ Renew GERENDE's Contract.

Tes

HMMW-9873, 5 July 1961

It ts requested that Subject's contract, as amended, be renewed for

a two year period, 1 October 1961 through 30 September 1963, The Station

does not desire to make any changes In Subject's contract at this time.

MEL

2 August 1961

Distribution:
sin
. - Files

PEI ~1/ 95.23

ae
mires
Pay SECRET [Chem |

ES Ca?



2

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Quiet, WH Division
wast
Operational /Raymond H, GERE'DS/Contract Renexel

Sabject!s contract wil expire on 30 Septenbor 1961, ‘The Station 18
reqested to pouch their request for renewal, together with any changes or
eussdaonts they may desire, in order that it may reach Headquarters by 1
Septenbor 1961.

END OF DISPATCH

Distributions
2 = Mexico City

‘DATE TreD, ‘CATE OSPATONRD

$ aay aga [2 ae

DEPTH SIMO RS RSE

some
$20" 53° use erenous comon. err ucts my stm meat er a st

SILI RN A TOT

Fe


Chief, WH Diviries

Fira
Chief cf Station, Nexico City

some
Ipanéamt of Contract = Raymond £, GERENDE

nein waUatD
For your informatica 7 QUAURED HO. Ox ONY
wa

revere
W2W-P2E1, 2 Decester 1959

In reviewing CERFNDE's personnel file, it was noted that a signed copy
of an enendment to his contract, wich was-fcrverded to the Station under
reference, had never been forwarded to Headquarters. We therefore, are

attaching a signed copy of the ccatract amendsent fcr your files.

\ 1
5 ya ony a
{llr ke G
“Wilerd C, CHTIS

13 June 1962

Attachnents
As stated

Dietritution:
3 = WED, w/att.
2 Files

'
oe rout E Ve tee
a REPLACES FORMS.
= 3128, 2A ASO 5129
WHICH ARE CRSETE,



|
|

Mr, Raymond H. Gerende

Doar Mr. Gerende:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Goverament, |
A6 represented by the Contracting Officer, effective | October 1755, ae [.

amonded.

Effective 1 Juty 1959, the amendment effective | July 1959 to said
contract is revised to read as follows:

(a) The figure $4086 is deleted from the first sentence of peragraph
one (I) entitled “Compensation” and in lieu thereof the figure

fo?

$4560 is substituted.

(b) The following paragraph ie added after paragraph ter. (10), entitled
"Term":

Ll, Terminal Fayment. In the event your contractual relations
ship with the Covarnment hereunder is severed for one of the
reasons set forth below, you, or your estate, will be entitled to j
a terminal payment of one (I) moath's compensation for each full
year of your utilization by tne Government after 18 March 1955.
Said amount shall be calculated at the contractual rate of
compensation applicable at the time said payment becomes dus, "

(a) Said contract is terminated by the Government under
aubparagraph (a) of paragraph ten (10) above, or

(>) Said contract expires and is ast renewed by the
Government, or

(c) Your resignation hereunder is accepted by the
Government ee being in ite. bast: interests (the
Government's determination as to what constitutes
ite best interests shalt be final and conclusive}, or

{4) In the event of your death during the pericad sald
contract is in effect. .

All other terms sad conditions of the contract, as amended, remain
in full force aad effect.

You will please indicate your approval by signing in the space pro-
vided below. i ui hiding Eile
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

wr ifharet C. GIES i
: oatracting r it



Beas ec eg icseae ate aanner ta daauavapneney mee relay frHLUpaniapopuaE ON oaiarrnUamaaey ITE

1 bid ie: secret

Chief of Station, Mexico City

EQUINE + RUPTRENC ES
REF: IOMA~! + 9 December 1960

1. As requested by reference, BURIOT is herewith forverding the folloving:

(Confirming docymentatinn rSbanging yon gr Php deem vill be isaued in the near feture.
Long Wave Ultraviolet Lap

2. Por ordinary Fé work, the difference between long and short wove lanps is
very minor end the long wave UV lexp should prove adequete for the needs of Reyacnd He
CERENDE. Should a special need arise dewanding the use of a short vave UY limp by
GENENDE, it will be supplied by KURIOT.

3. Disclosure of the existence, advantages, or uses of ahort vave UV lamps, or
in any vey making availebdle such lunps to other than WEAR personnel requires prior
Headquarters approval. A copy of Instrustica Yo. 20-2 containing the basic mai
policy governing the use of chort vave UV lazys is herevita encloced for your guidance.

&, Short wave UY lamps cabody a definite beclth hazard and should be wed with
caution. Short vave UV rays quickly couse sunburn, to vbich the eyee ere particulsrly
susceptible, and should not be used without vearlag protective goggles. Ordinary eye
glassas cut cut most of the harcful reye, but evea persona wearing glesses my receive
harnful eye burns from UV rays entering at tas sides of the glasses. Short vove CY
Joups als produce small quantities of ozone 29 that the laup should be used in a vell
ventilated roou, vhich,of cource, must aloo be darkened. For the ebove ruasons, it is
‘advisable to uso only a long wave UV laxp wienever possible.

|

Bnelosures: (2 Box end 2 Envi)
1. UV Lemp
2. Instruction fo. 20-2

Distribution
3 - COB, Mexico City w/encis



DISPATCH | SECRET

TO
3 lef, WH Divistor
GAlet, n

DSTI ME

201-119523

FROM

NO NOE
pes

i ING CAN $2 BIOGED
|_| Famous,

HMMW-9364, 4 January 1961

As requested in reference, returned herewith is one copy of

GERENDE's contract amendment, The original copy has been retained by

the Station, The Station and GERENDE appreclate Headquarters prompt

action In processing the request for an increase in salary,

26 January 1961

Attachment:
As stated above,

Distr ibutign:
WHD (with one copy of attachment)
> Files (with original of attachment)

i

Case ation

SECRET



t
}
i
I

|| Mr. Raymond H. Gerende

Dear Mr, Geronde: 4G
Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government,
as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective October 1955, as
amended,
Effective 1 January 1961, said contraci, as amended, is further
amonded by deleting the figure $4560 from the first sentence of paragraph
one (1), entitled "Compensation," and substituting in lieu thereof the figure
$5040, E

All other terme and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain
in full force and effect.

below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

- .
BY. Millac ( Lark i
teld Contracting Officer

i

i

You will please indicate your approval by signing in the epsee provided |
i

iy

!

j

d

2108
cumunce CIN?
eRe CEIRED



Wisi FE WEE
Chief of Station, Hexico City

Baymead H. OFRFHUF (ne)
Dew wigieid winirinets

3 Execute attached contract and return one copy to Headquarters
&
REFERENCES FMA-16055, 30 Hovember 1960

1. ‘The salary raise for Subject which was requested in reference has
deen approved. The amandment to his contract has been prepated and tho
approving signature has been executed at Headquarters.

2. It is requested that the Station and Subject sign the attached
contract axendment. Since Headquarters has no interest in the funding of
Subject, the Station should retain the original of ths amendment ic their
finaneiel files, Please return ons signed copy to Headquarters.

‘ERD OF DISPATCH

|
|

Attaghnent®
Contract Anendzent

Distributions
2 = Hextco City (w/a)

TATE WD Tosttosatoas

29 December 1960 & JAN 196



§-E-C-R-E-T

Mr, Raymond H. Gerende
Dear Mr, Gerende:

Reference {e made to your contract with the United States Government,
a6 represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 Cetober 1955, as
amended.

Effective 1 January 1961, said contract, as amended, to further
amended by deleting the figure $4360 from the firat sentence of paragraph
ene (1), entitled “Compensation, " and eubstituting fn Hou thereof the figure
$5040, :

All other terms nd conditions of the contract, as amended, romain
fm full force and effect,

You will please indicate your approval by signing in the space provided
below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT |

BY.
Field Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

i
Raymond H, Gerende
{| WITNESS:

APPROVED:

Nene ee nee ema

8-E-C-R-!



13 Decesber 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Finance Division
vA : Contrect Personnel Division

SUBJECT 3 Rayeond H, GERENDE (ps)

It ig requested that the contract for Rayaond H, GERENDE, effective
1 October 1955, a8 amended and extended, be further amended, effective

1 January 1961 to raise the yearly coupensatioa to $3,040,

: Ned P, Holean
ACES
Distribution:
Orig and 1 = Addressee
1 = Subject
WH/3/Mexico/ckZehrung:bk

SERS



= A Griet, WH

ea ORUNLL/ NAPUK KAPOK-1850

Faioavarttin het

201-119523

ae Chief of Station, Mexico City

ance

- LIEMPTY/Raymond H, GERENDE (ps)

Eines A ING CAN BE IUDGED
- Amendment to GERENDE's Contract HED HO DESK ONLY

orem

HMMW-8281, 2 December 1959

1, The referenced dispatch forwarded the most recent contract
amendment raising GERENDE's salary to $4, 560.00 per year,

2. In the Station's opinion, GERENDE's continued Superior per-
formance of his LIEMPTY Principal Agent duties justifies another salary
increase, Headquarters attention is invited to the recent Request for Renewal
of Project LIEMPTY wherein GERENDE's duties were specified,

3, It ts requested that Headquarters initiate an appropriate amend-

ment to GERENDE's contract increasing his yearly compensation to
$5,040.00. This amendment ehould be effective 1 January 1961,
28 November 1960

Mithasde ho
Dtstrtbut! ton:

a gf
v vw

ee |

a :

USE PREVIOUS PON CASSCATION
BaSe
eal SECRET/KAFOK =



|
i

j
i
i

VIisFAICN L SECRET/KAPOK i KAPOK-1843

ae ae Cares
ami ef, WH Diviston 201-119523

| 50-6-74/L

oat
23 Novembe:
e

:_Chiet of Station, Mextco City

- Raymond H, GERENDE (ps)/Emergency Contact
Arrangments

eae

|

orenror ay

-_None, for Headquarters information only

Goer

| wot
BY QUAUEED NO DE Cone
dt

HMMA-15979, KAPOK~1842 dated 18 November 1960

1, In compliance with the KUBARK regulation, CSI-F No. 230-60,
Annex A, concerning contact arrangments under emergency conditions, the
following information, including recognition signals and bona fides, s
forwarded for Headquarters records, Due to the sensitivity of the information,
it was believed more appropriate to forward it separately rather than to
include ir with reference (Request for Renewal of Project LIEMPTY).

2, Insofar as can be determined at the present time, GERENDE could
probably be contacted at one of the following places:

a, Present Residence: IDENTITY A
b, Mother's Residence: : IDENTITY B
c. Cover Employment Address: IDENTITY C

3. The following oral recognition signals, using the English language,
are to be used as indicated:

CONTACT: "Mr, (GERENDE-true name), I bring the most
sincere wishes and grectings from your Aunt
and Uncle."

GERENDE; “Then you are referring to the IDENTITY D,”

CONTACT: "No, Iam referring to your other relatives in
South Carolina, the IDENTITY E Pp

GERENDE: "Yes, Auntie is my Mother's sister."

4, For use as physical bona fides, the Station is forwarding a one peso
note with the serial number T348510 for Headquarters files. GERENDE has
been given a one peso note with the next higher serial number, T348511, to
keep in a safe place pendin; his having to show it to some future KUBARK contact.
It has been explained to GERENDE that he is to show his half of the physical

bona fides only after the recognition signals have been completely and

accurately recited and his new contact has requested to see his physical bona
fides. GERENDE has also been instructed to assure himself of his contact's
bona fides by asking to see the contact's one peso note (1348510).

5. Assuming that adequate time will be available at the beginning of an
emergency condition, it may well be possible to instruct GERENDE in Secret
Writing so that correspondence could be conducted using IDENTITY D or E
addresses. -

CETTE
SECRET/KAPOK
ag cnr Ror-JIFSE AP

i
i
;
: .
:
i
é
7

ad


CONTINUATION OF |

ieee (HMM A-33981
DISPATCH | SECKET/KAPOK | apons1843

6, It is assumed that Headquarters will advise the Station should more
detatled or sophisticated contact arrangments be desired,

Vileeerh fr F&

Attachments:
Peso note - attached herewith,
Three copies of {dentities - under separate cover,

Distributions
3, WHD (with attachments)
- Files (with attachments)

TOSEFEATON

2
Snow ate onsoae SECRET/KAPOK

ee Dore IS AD



SECRET/KAPOK
| :
| IDENTITIES TO HMMA~15981, KAPOK~1843 dated 23 November 1960
1
| IDENTITY A -
i
|
IDENTITY B -

! IDENTITY C -

i

: WENTITY D - : !
| ENTITY E - :
i Hl

SECRET/KA ¢OK
SS COPY 2BOr i

flatie ents





ee i

S Ohiet, MUMTOT Attas C/SUATT/ Training

v0
8 Chief, 1 Division

FROM
2_Chiof of Station, Mexico City Lb heevlo

png Flops & 2ucle Training of Raynont B. O°RE Oy — ert tot
_s0Ar:¢fiparational

iow wate

1. tn ewmplianse with a Station Request, LICHT orinot ntl epent
Rayment H, OK IOE, ts being given training in basic flaps and asals
techniques, TR 19 felt etvissble to have e second psrson outside the
Station ww con services this type of requiresent in cose LPORD is prevented
froa doing co by the sscurity eitastion arising from ths ALPHLUR casas

2. So an ald to this training, a copy of the wrtion of the MCURITE
Operations Fenual (Section 1.0.3.) dealing with baste flepe and osals work
bas teen nade ent turaed ever te REDE, A second copy te being forwarded
herewith to Ecetquartors. This materis] wae propared on the beats of the
eantent of the HURIOT troining course of m14-1957. If OMIT training 46
in peenesaion of newer art improved teckniquas in thie field and +i 11 meke
then avallahle to MILFIR) for vee here, it would ba greetly appreciated.

WiLlam c. CURTIS
24 Nevedwr 1960
Attackmont? 1 MKCIURITY Operations Manusi (Section T.2-1e)

BASED aw rediny — 0. a ll ae

tom
wv $3 JA AND $128
a, Sta ane Oso



ear

' “Giet of Station, Marico City
2o01-219523

3 DEC 195:

Oy — CHece “ONT
MARKED FO? DEEN
WO OUTING FEQUIFED

INDEXING CAN BE 2U0GED.
BY QUALIFIED HQ DASE On

HT-1056, 9 October 1959
WA-13571, D. August 1959
HAMH~7959, 12 Avgust 1959
Hr34-13063, 5 duns 1959

1. Reference (0) forvarded a contract amendment which provided
4noreased eoxpensation and @ termination settlexent for Auymond H. GERENDS,
This dispateh also raquested that the Station cosmont on the provisions of
the Terninal Payuent clause as written into this ancndent.

2, Since the provistons of the original contrect axsndment ware
written in general terns and did not spsoifically cover the eircunstances
under which GZRRIDE would be eligible for a terminal sottlezont as
Anterpreted by the Station and outlined in reference (b), @ revised
contract smenduent was vritten. The attached contrast ananduont also
shows corrected compensation figures. The original contrast emsndwnt vas
incorrest dua to the evsence of the cxenduant, effective 1 Septexder 1957,
which increased GZREKLE's compensation from $3,600 to $4,080.

3. Sines GERENDE's origine). contract was prepared at Headquarters
and forvarded to you for exeontion and retention, tiis amendront should
follow the sase procedure, Therefore, the origins] and ene copy are
attached for your action and retention. ‘ieturn cine signed copy.

4, Reference (a) roquested Headquarters to eament on a tu
emtengion for GEREXDS'e contract, indicating that the extension should te

fan 1 Iviy 1999, the dete of the last ansndsont, to 1 duly 1961. ‘There
gacus to bo sone confusion on contract oxtension procedures which Head~
qvarters would like to clarify at this point. Contrast extensions are
hesod on the date ox the original ccutract not the ammdaunts. Accordlgly,
CERENDE © eertrect, originally effective 1 October 1955 and extended to

30 Septenber 1959, was further extended for @ period of tvo years fron

1 October 1959 to 30 September 1961.



B

S-E-C-R-E-T ;
(When Filled In) uaa

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Finance Division

FROM: Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Contract Extension for_yaysscud fs Oareota

| 1, Effective_j -eesyen )2a9 » the contract
i {as amended) for the subject individual, effective: “<tobep 1923 +

is extended for_p ported af tee (ib yous

2. All other terms and conditions of the contract (as amended)
remain in full force and effect.

j 7 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Cros,
S él
BY
Contracting Officer

APPROVED:

. S-E-C-R-E-T : :
: (When Filled In)



CO UNCLASSIFIED =). ETERNAL (1 COWT'DENTIAL secret
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

* 18 November 1959

COMMENTS (Heche each comces! ta show from whem
1 whom. Drow 2 line ocrots colven cher each comened j

Otol: For approval in pseudo

2 C/wH/3 Oto 2: Terry. Sorry for the

Attn: delay/hope this is adequate. Hqs.
Finance Division has no financial
interest in this individual, therefote,
please have the field execute and
retain the original of this amendmdnt
in their Station financial files. Th
field can then gend a signed copy
back to WH and you in tum can

i notify us of its receipt so our

~ Te records will show that thie transarkion
has been finally completed. Any

questions,, give Weta

zh [fehl r

1703
ie roatlart ow

aor A

0, SERIE PRORTER OFFICE: 1H O- m= ;

a. Nites 610 “ornare q SECRET O¢ CONFIDENTIAL =] (MERNAL «= 7] UNCLASSIFIED
. aires |

et



eapaiibs a OREO PRENATAL Bi

Mr, Raymond H. Gerenlg
Dear Mr. Gerende:

Reference is mado to your coatract with the United States Goversment,
as represented by the Contracting Oificer, effective 1 October 1955, as
amended,

Effective | July 1959, the amendment effective | July 1959 to said
coatract is revised to read as follows:

(a) The figure $4080 {9 deleted from the first sentence of paragraph
one (1) entitled "Compensation" and in lieu thereof the figare
$4560 fe subotituted,

(b) The following paragraph ie added after paragraph ten (10), entitled
"Term":

“it, Terminal }ayment, In the event your contractual retation-
ship he Goverument hereunder is severed for one of the
reasons set forth below, you, or your estate, will be entitled to
& terminal payment of one (1) month's corapensation for each full
year of your utilisation by the Goverament after 18 Marca 1335.
Said amount shall be calculated at the contractual rate of
compensation applicable at the time eaid payment becomes due,"

(a) Said contract is terminated by the Government onder
oubparagraph (2) of paragraph ten (10) above, or

(b) Said contract expires an¢ is not renewed by the
Government, or

{c) Your recignation hereunder is accepted by the
Government as being in its best fateraste (the
Govornment's determination as to what constitutes
ite beet interests shall be final and conclusive), or

(d) In the event of your death during the period said
contract is in effect.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain
ie full force and effect,

You will please indicate wal by eigniag in the epace pro-
vided below. Eh he barat

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
BY.
———Coatracting Cilicer
ACCEPTED:

raya . Gerende
WITNESS: . aie
AFPROVED: i 38!



pee

22 October 1959

MEMORAWIM POR: Contract Porsamel Division
SUBJECT 1 Contract Extension for Raynond B, GAREuDZ (ps)

1. It 4s requscted that effective 1 Ostebsr 1959, the
contract (ae amended) for Reymoal E, GIRZI:, effective
1 Gotobsr 1955 and extended to 30 saptamber 1959, be further
: extends’ for a poriot of tvo yorrs.
2. All other terns oni contitions of the contract should
remain in full force ani effect. ‘ ‘

i.

1 = Chrono

BL, Dahlgren,

over" :
; :
rc Distribution: a
i Orig & 1] = Addressee
: CX Subject
:
{



DISPATCH ij SECRET HMMT-1035

Chief, WH Division (pieearediatintied :

201-119523

sal
9 October 1959 Hy
ef aT — Htc OM)

NO INDELING HEGUIFID 7 t

MOELING CAN BE 1U0GED_
SY QUALINED MQ DESK ner i

HMMA-13571, 21 August 1959
HMMW-7959, 12 August 1959
HMMA-~13063 (RYBAT-1152), 5 June 1959

1, Reference C requested that a new two-year contract (with amendments) :
be prepared for Raymond H. GERENOE to be effective 1 July 1959. Reference
B forwarded the amendment to the contract, but made no mention of the two-year
renewal,

2, Therefore, unless we are notified otherwise by Headquarters, we
ume that GERENDE's present contract is cue for renewal on 1 July 1961.

5 October 1959 :

will

Distribution

“y
bs



7 RTE IR eT TE
DISPATCH L SECRET HMMA- 13371
TO Chief, WH Division iecuatttiiied ;
no 201-419523 :
a !
Fen ief of Statioa, Mexico City 21 Ascust 1959
= TCHECK “X" OPE)

Y*" TEMPTY /Contract Amendment for Raymcnd H.
GERENDE (ps) NO Pwe tine REQUIRED

Coro : (eat 7003 CAN BE RIDGED
None, for Headquarters information only, 87 QUALITIED HO. DESK OMY
Corey

A. HMMA - 13063, 5 June 1959,

wage

B HMMW-7959, i2 August 1959, i

1, Forwarded herewith as Attachment No, One is GERIZNDE's signed ‘
contract amendment, GERENDE is mos: appreciative for the raise in salary
and is delighted with the ncw Terminal Payment claus>,

2, The Station interprets the Terminal Payment clause to mean any
termination by the Government or acceptance of GERENDE's resiynation in
the “best interests of the Government,"" Examples in connection with the “best
interests of the Government" interpretation would involve GERENDE's resignation
for health reasons or other logical personal reasons such a8 a change of residence
to some geographical area where hia services could not be utilized by KUBARK,
Assuming that no security problems are involved tn making such a payment, the
Station also interprets the clause to be applicable for payment to GERENDE's estate
in the event of his death while in the employ of KUBARK.

3, The Station understands clearly why the clause was not written as
originally requested and concurs in Headquarters reasoning, Certainly, the Station
would not want to give GERENDE a terminal payment, and he hag been so informed,
if he elects to resign just to reccive some extra moncy or to puraue some other
career, The Station hastens to add, however, that to the best of ita knowledge,
GERENDE has no intention of resigning from his present KUBARK job,

4. As& requested in Reference B, enclosed as Attachment No, Two are the
original and one copy of the contract amendment dated | September i957, Head-
quarters wili note that the amendment was accepted by GERENDE and approved by
the Chief of Station, but was not formally witnessed, It is suggested that Matthew
S. DINGLEY (ps), who is presently in Headquarters, be requested to witness the
document, DINGLEY was the Case Officer handling GERENDE at the time this
amendment became effective,

“2 August 1959

Distribution i
3 Hqs w/attachments as stated above H

(USE PREVIOUS FOTOS. enema
Heron SECRET



i
i

‘15 August 1957

Xr. Rayrond H. SERENDE

Dear Mr, GERENDE:

Refersnce is made to your contrect with the United Steter
Governcent, as represented by the Coutracting Officer, effective
1 October 1955.

Effective 1 Septenber 1957, said contract is ancnted by
deleting paragraph ons (2) entitled "Compensation," ant
substituting in lieu thercof the following parecmph:

©1, Compenzation. In full consideration for the purchase
of such irformtion ant service:, you will be paid an amount
calculated at the rete of $4,080.00 per anrum. Payrexte will
be made es directed by you in writing in a manner acceptable to
the Government.”

All other terms ani conditions of the contract remain in
full force and effect.

You vill please indicate jour epproml by signing in the
space provided below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

oe BY, ee
Contracting Officer



Mrs Raymoud H, Gersade

i

ii Doar iar, Gerende: :
i Refezence so made to your contract witn the United ftates Government,
ij represented by the Contracting Officer, affective i Cctober 1955, as cat
H amended.

Effective 1 July 1959, said contract, as amended, io iurther amended
"the following meaner:

&. Tho figure $3600 ia deleted from the first senterce of paragraopa {
one (1) entitled “Compensation ' and in Meu thereof the figure == _ |

iH $4560 fe cubstitated. i
i

!

b.

‘Tho following paragraph 1e added after paragraph ten (10) entitled
"Term":

“ll. Terminal Payment. In the event thie contract is
terminated by the Government under subparagrapn (4) of
paragraph ten (10) above or in tae evont of its expiration and
i nonrenewal by the Government, you will be entitled to a
torminal payment of one (i) month's compensation for each
ful year of your utilization by the Governmont alter
‘18 March 1955. Said amount saail ve calculated at the
contractual rate of compensation applicable at tne time
this payment becomes duc.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in if
full force and effect. |

You will please indicate your approval by signing in the space provided
below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY,
Contracting Wilicar



t Chief of Station, Mexico City

aaa rie Ta
2M1-119523
=
yi LUG 1559

Has ~ Cntce kOe

Lic)

“wo

FROM Chief, WED

PMS = LIEMPTY/Contract Aponisent for Raynond He
GZaENDE (ps)

The eatrine #10."
eameerleoendtand INDLRING CAN BE JUDCLE
= Seo paragraphs 2,3, ani 4. Frovsueto nO OtSe Our

Corea

INS1A~13063, 5 June 1959

1, In eccordsnce with your request to emsnd Subject's contract
providing hin with an increasa in compensation and a termination
payment, the attached contract anendment was written.

2. Paregreph (a) of this auendment states that the figure
$3600 ia doleted from GERRNDR's contract and in lieu thereof the
figure $4560 13 substituted, This figure of 33600 1s the amount
GER2.8 vas to receive under his original contract, dated 1 Gctober 1955.
hosording to the referenced dispatch, hovever, Subject's contract was
amended on 1 Septesbor 1957 to provide him with an increase in co:pensation,
bringing his salary up to #080, lMeither Contract Division nor your
ares desk has a copy of this spendment, Please forvard a copy to
Headquarters for our files,

3. Your attention is also directed to the “Torminal Payment?
elause, Under tho provisions of the attached amendment, GEARNDE is not
eligible for a termination settlement if he resigna fron KUEARK, Only
in the event that ve give him 30 daya’ notica of termination or fail to
roney his contract io he eligible for this terminrtion payrant, Your
coments on the stipulations as written into the etiached exeninent cre
Fequestod, In tha event you feel that GEXENVE should be entitled to a
termination payment should he resign his positiun, the clause vill be
reuritten,

. 4. The attechod ememiment should be returned to Headquarters with
Your comments end a copy of the contract asendnent dated 1 Septexter 1957,

20 August 19599

Attachnont:
4s described above,

Distribution: :
3 = Haxico City :
L = dB/Mailroa
¥ WH/ilI/Mexico Chrono
-RI .

WH/LII Mexico,

anne 68 CON
Aol PLAD

Waticn APE SSS
RECORD COPY RECORD COPY


vo

eee ere cen en nats emma NES

MEMORANDUM FCR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT * Contract for GEREXDE

In reviewing the last contract smendment, it came to note
that CPD was deleting the original canpensation figure of $3600
Anstead of the figure sent by the Station which was $4080, In
checking this out, we find that we have no copy or notification
of the amendment deted 1 Septender 1957 increasing his salary
from $3600 to $4080, CPD ‘s rewritting the contract without
using a compensation figure for the amount to be deleted.

When we send this to the field, ast them to send us a copy
of the contract emendment, dated 1 September 1957, Also inform

them that they are to execute and retain the original copy of this

new contract amendment, It may by well to point gut that Subject's

termination clause stiypulates that he will received this benefit
only if we terminate the contiact.

na | yt

@o!



ct

22 ewy 1999

MEMOUANOUM FOts Chief, Contract Foroonne! Divisica
SuBS7Cr 8 Contract Amenteont for Zaymond ?, G22ZNDS (ps)

. 1. It is Topmeted thet Rayzond 1, G222NDZ's contract,

effective 1 Octebze 1955 (ne azandsd), bo furt-or ewecded to
hip with eo: pangazion at the awd rate of i, 5

effective 1 July 1959, 1b 13 alvo Toqusated thet a vere! at ion
clause, effectiva 1} Herch 1955, bs written into ‘ia contrast
ebipulating that G2xS%0% will reostve a tarnfnation psyzent of
one month's aslary, calculaved et tho proveiling rate of co:pen-
sation eb the tice of his termination, ‘or each fl! year of his
exploynant with the U,J. Govormmont, GETS wae exployed by
the Koxico City S:ation on 18 Kerch 1955 unter provisions of en
oral egrosment, All other provisions of : 1s contract should
renain in forse.

2, GUND ie covered by the LIMAY by
amended to inelets the above camitzonts to
by Unicef, FI on lo duly 199

ject which vas
738 an! approved

B 3, Gonos
AC/ciD
Distribution:
Orig & L ~ Addressee
Ef 1 = Chrono
1 = Subject

t
i

|



+ Chief of Station, Kexico City

+ Chiof, aD

= LIMGFY Project Ansaizent
Raymond H, GEREXDR (ps)

INDE MING CAN BE PJDGED
OY QUALIED nO ESE ONLY

HOA-13053, 5 June 1999

1. 116 July 1957, on ansninent to the LIZ/PTY Project vas
epproved granting permission to amend Raymond H. G2ZNZNDE's contract
to provide hin vich termination settlement ef one month's salary for
each full yoar thot he vorks for ZUBARK and to raice his salary effoctive
duly 1959 from $4,080 to 84,560 per yoar. lo additional funds vere
Tequosted for the Project.

2 A request to etand GEREWE's contract to inalule the bensfits
listed above hes been submitted, You will be notified when the contract
has been exanded,

3. & copy of tho approved Project: sandmant is attached for your
fafornation and records,

a duly 199

Attachnoents
1 = (amar)

3 = Mexico City
1 = Wi/I1I Mexico RIBAT Chrono
1 = Subject oan

WH/TII/Mexico/Z.1. ScaLartt san



WiSrALCr {| SECRET/RYBAT

'O Chief, WH Divisicn

ono

~~ Chief of Staticn, Mexico City

201-119523

5 June 1959

faaaet

New Contract for Raymond H. GEKENDE (p)

WE ada” = (CHtce Ore
waeneD FOR MIO,
NO HOE Str)

acon aC
Headquarters

BEATING CAN BE 2y0GED
BY QUALIFIED HO. LEEK Cre

ration of a new contract,
ere
HMMW-5626, 3 December 1957

abilities are showing continued improvement,

ft
1O/vps
3 June 1959

Distribution
3 Has

ust raenous MON.

rou
9 53 S128, SU-20A AND 51-29
ry Sige are oesourre

2, As pointed out in the attachment to HMMA-11368, 22 October 1958,
paragraph three of MEXI- 2836, 25 November 1958, and in the LIEMPTY Field
Project Outline, GERENDE is a highly valued full-time Station assct who carries
a significant work load and who has a great deal of responsibility, He is the
LIEMPTY Principal Agent who handles the LIMITED, LILYRIC and LICALLA base
houses, the LIENTRAP operation, the outside photographic processing and trans-
lation service and all the agents participating in these activities, He performs
his duties in a conscientious and professional manner and his already excellent

3, Paragraph eight of HMMA-12095, 4 February 1959, indicated that the
Station was considering amending GERENDE's contract to provide for some type

of retirement benefits, Although it is recognized that indigenous agents are not
usually granted such contract provisions, the Station believes that GERENDE should
have monetary incentive, in addition to his idealogy, to make a long career with
KUBARK, Accordingly, the Station recommends that GERENDE's new contract
provide for a termination settlement of one month's Salary for each full year that
he has worked for KUBARK. In other words, should GERENDE's career with
KUBARK last for 24 years and his yearly salary at the end of this period is $3,000.00
then he, or his heirs, would receive a lump sum payment of $16,000.00, After
.considering different types of insurance plans, an escrow account and several
other ideas, the Station considers the above proposal to come closest to meeting
the criteria of control, production incentive and creation of the desire to make
KUBARK acarcer, The date, 18 March 1955, should be used as the beginning date
for the computation of GERENDE's termination benefits,

a Cc. CURTIS

SRF TERS
SECRET/RYBAT |LCIome

1, Raymond H, GERENDE was initially employed by the Station on 18 March
1955 under provisions of an oral agreement, Effective 1 October 1955 GERENDE
was placed under a written contract, prepared by Headquarters, with an annual
salary of $3,500.00, On | Szptember 1957 his contract was amended to increase
his salary to $4,080.00 per annum, which is the salary he is presently receiving.
It is requested that a new two year contract he prepared, to be effective 1 July 1959,
Providing an increase in salary to $4,550,00 per anaum and including a termination
clause which will give GERENDE a termination payment of one month's salary,
calculated at the prevailing rate of compensation at the time of termination, for
each full year of his KUBARK employment, All other provisions of GERENDE's
initial contract should remain in force, (The increase in salary to $4, 500,00
per annum is already covered by the LIEMPTY Project.)



Bn

MEMOBANIAM FOR’ Chief, FI a: sonet HEAD WARTSRS CASZ OFYICKIE
re FL ra z

S0RsECT t Project LISHP7Y Avendment Noamet J. B. irady
Rooms waren hi

texte
Dates 23 Sune 17H

1, It 1e requested that ep-roval be granted to amend Haynand H, GCRPNDEt
contrac: to provide him with a termtration settlenent of one month's salary for
each full year that he vorks for Kli2skk and to raise his salary effective July
2959 frou 3h,030 to 24,560.02 por year, iis last salary increase was granted on
1 Septesber 1957, The "ante, 16 Varch 1955, bas been sux-eated by tho Station as
the beginning date for the capytation of U4tADH" a ternination benefite. The
Station believes that this benefit will provide GERSNDE vith the necossary
incentive to make KUBARK a career and st the same tine will cive the Station en
additional elaxent of control.

2. As pointed out in the LIJMPTY Project Approval, C2W7IDR, an indigenous
agent, is one of the Station's rost valuatle essets. He haa a resrorsible fll
time job aa the LIEMPTL Principal Agent who handles the LIMIT), LILLKIC and
LICALIA base houses, the LIUNTRAP operation, the outside plotorrannic pr
and trenslation earvice and oll the agents participatin: in these activities.
ko perforsa his duties in a oonscicutious and crofessicnal manner and hie
already excellent abilities ure showing continued iz=prorezant.

3. Honey was already allocated in the LISHPTY Iroject apsroval for the
salary increase. With the effective date of 10 Karch 1955, for the ternination .
elause, GEAANI% will already have secruod $1,520 (his salary is $h,540 per year)
4f be vhowld resign today. Te LIEMOTY Project, as aporoved, has suffioiont
funds to cover this cost if it is nessssary to obligate this amount during the
present Project year, Therefore, no additional funds ere requested,

oer: eens



‘CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

es [vsseans

ORIG:
er, 835
or:
pate, 26 MARCH 2659
TO. MEXICO CITY t
t
From: DIRECTOR t
°
cour, TSS 4 t
c
iro, Cl, CL/OPS, Fl, FI/oPS, Wik, S/c 2 7
10 MEI InFo cre ove 19063.
19063
RE MEXT 35¢2 (IN 34110) ‘

- REFERENCE PARA 3 YES
+ End of Message -

RI Coment: Does MS desire naturalized
Mexican citizen obtain tourist visa?

CXC Gosouet

C. Ve 8. SCCURVELT ,
“DE/SSS ino orrveee”

REFRODUCTION4 BY OF

et tented onde TOME Pca aerate) Hs an ueieree! j



i190

: * DIRECTER
i FROM" HEXICO CITY
ACTION: ss 4

INFO + cH, Ci/oPs, Fl, Fi/ops, wih, s/c2

FAR 19 23292 59

IN 34110
ro pir ae GUAL SANJ oF ext 3522
AQUATIC

RE: DIR 16313 (out 820h7)*

1. RAYMOND H GERENUE ADVISED BY CUBAN CMB 17 MARCH THAT OCLS NOT NEED VISA

ENTER CUBA AS TOURIST ON MEXICAN PASSPORT SINCE KEXI- PP GOOD FOR 29 DAY STAY AND ;
CAN EASILY BE RENEWED ONCE IN CUBA.
: 2. CUBAN EB ADVISED ODACID BY PHONE 13 MARCH THAT TOURIST VISA NOT REQUIRED

FOR ANY NATIVE BORM LATIN AMERICAN, U.S. BRITISH, FRENCH OR SWISS CITIZEM. TCuRiST
VISA 1S REQUIRED FOR ANY ABOVE iATURSLIZED CITIZEN. TRANSIENT VISA REQUIRED Gd

ANY NATIOULITY WO TRAVELS VIA CUBA TO COUNTRY OTHER THAN HIS OF.
{ it 3+ DOES HOS OESIRE HATURALIZED HEXI citizen OBTAIN TOURIST VISS?
END OF KESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *REQUESTED IMMEDIATELY Gi LOAN CUBAN TOURIST VISAS II ORIGINAL PASSFCATS
OTHER THAN U.S.

oy

REPRODUCTION BY. OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

og RG eR os tt ap ORR ROCK BH DUS IER REE BIE ASS a a



ar aaa LAPS
fer phe pavicel covered by Sty report, a rew Casa Officer, Quésas
. eaeoread oper stitial dlrecuias of geverat LIPSTECK eseets (Oltver
WTLEse fayesad rh GER. » LIMITED, LICALLA, RIZNTRAP and
a eappo rm agcaxe), the Lf sarve (lane @ taam Aad the LILY RIC Base,
: ito bes tu tured wm vor SCANILES, prim arity, te toliew =p LIMESA
hos otesiseal fron LEFLA Tf ace the pPhuonrre gkbe beech however, £m postive
isacer hive bers bbsbceal fevea hts proicgios apse exert tine culls meet ee

rear esbidint toa
tic emirar 1984 ky

|
ets ance trem bia baa card egertesity | 1
oarte one ey however, a prtactee ef, |
ined ta itiacdopeczaars bo semime the 1
fy Cale heg ard Goved gest wi thee LUERSZY team, {ke
iy, esaidalag ali : & bathe resort was
3 3 October BDL ed peakoor year app rove?
¥: « AS Cpersiicanl ewcerey |
arttv® ios wee ferwacied 9 Hosdemrters 38 13
mA 1136S, 22 Ostaber 1953,

JIT OF DEVELOPMENTS + CLIVER G, SCANTLING SEGMENT

A 8 in fecrancton » | Otivee G SCARTLING bes exstaned to perform the
momeer, SCARTLINT's pees, camoss mut,
team, tebayy soci astive abd ty for the paras of chuniatine acti rit ee

se kin age of as mong vaivable epggare 2 sata eveticisio te tha Moxios Cry

i taster. Tha isco thee SCANT LING bey feli time overt ascags ttow a4 Catt

7 engiene 9 aad Peo ica Moatrer fee a local manutetuarire company adds to

pate inmger ange preceetad a4 }UB4 AR ogem, Ca two cecoclans dering t2¢ past

SCAN LING bag muicunnt lo bis Os se Officer thet be woud Like i
fran bis srort makica asi dewpo: bill time to his KUBARE coe seitomal

5 korea, tes Case Uificar bon disoas raged Bim dvom dotag tac oo the
Simt be bas more nege rn acy sreratist whom hie owrer occ eprgtoa is Leekbonie,
ie, SCANILING woul’ be cere telasiic Uf be could work Oeil tune SM rthe
ettea, bet oot anffte tory oo tp werr sat As restmarica from Ria avcit kB Gale
pe Oataly madesy ts nls crest 3 ig im eacees of S200 US Tho caly

lat gate et Myct arog thar 5 CAN SLING bee vrtdesc ed £0 bts presews Cs s0 Officsr
‘Bis cxcebme) Jay le prepar by weht co raperts of trenttyations axd arbor
ga roemixteg reporta ter thefiea, However, this emt arina grecually is
Zremome aad & ie expected that SCANTLENG's resorts wll came to
dootmal, cemprehometys sei comm wt be jrosagly subaniz ted,

S 2, Seesrty Perebormestas SCfVIT EG Wy coaeteatiy wader a ccanider blo
ives, GE casos are exc pre sanre wen fo Mo wing wp LIBIESA kentis elecioad from -
T aad tz sxecare pric ieaas, Siner rine ta alveye of the ease when
iy cv perishable lords, SCANTLING troceactiy ia dh rected te make oppe cacis s
ledtvimaale pestering services for the LAS RICK teres after petice, cod
tees cals cureory, tnrretyetioa, The refore, the poo ty elveys extcts
FY ae cosagicrce: fo oe Seats Seen Lae Tale aaces srrtty

Ch TS

oR

ee BEL CRET/KAPOK oe ee
i! ees Cege ect cipro esse



aiested th Lasane ef KIGA RR
Li ANTLING bes Oxmns to boty coreg

» Ges Gren wey ered watck site to
ct Cy a dro potlcus weretsea, SCAMTLESS ond the isa ten
> cmmiaes to aatch chxcly for muy cfg ef boosh pellee cat &
“bce LE ove be Bie aceite hing,

vostus - Rrtetty Goons ed bulee ves some
RSE SCARTLERG pra tte tpt durtag the pos

wad i
“ON are rand sateen be
chy ty thie tesagt:

. "5 20 (Ete } > SCABTLING eamstomed eoeke CASTE

deer 2356 hilo w wig, 6 eat Pte oof moms ee the crigeed LU.
f & iste ee sogientny 1956 poe it
NVtOs Gd CLG, Get CAST RG omdd cremions Ala work 12 cbs

LE. LA lice ew lay @ ae Se paeaiide to facil MELAGNTING,
MOT RS, tara h SCANTLING, wee the procged woures of this (fares
ee eles OM rined by LICRAT, Pur eas fuly, Angee xd % ia
22 Red ssnmsetns: ety ciel na otatze LR CASTE. fo tere
i33e LLP Ra f calico erd thot tac LEE ret wea archer H
GeO ST cate cof segisacu, Amwaio *ZNFEDA |
). [8 Qanpises cone ts the work CABTEO exe eepgasad 80 € ind sh
Late CASES wong sare dys jibe erased Uke bs PER exon Wed CASTRO
norrally ace heen eaperved do bed bo i} heen t3 tho employ ef dsc
ihe, LEGIT ED aed 1. CAT eoaie ad (he he LEER IEE target hed

fect dae et CAL O° Be bt aces viseing tks tage beiaitation mor dts
ihe carpet paspte sabes fo pe St tones Gb him, Ba view of eta, SCANTLING
wes inszroceed co cooge «ld Comat with CAST 80 as af 2 Mo vesnbar 1984,

a

faz

2 Fats Osa Roazes ne } + Doticg ths peried covered by Sits ropare
MOANT LING Bnd tee ineverviees: 0th GAO Roses, BCAMTLERG's masz rece
4 was Reeomkel to ikees gmriore as 03 aiuckmet to HMA 11149, 1
beg Sha, Usqu eartugaiyy the ianion bes biel fied LO Rose as the ecole
dtu 669 servis LIMENICK evim sad beers, SCAMTLIOGS will enetions hits
ey clone of MG Pans @ (phone ous Hid ita ATER, 19 Boog cba 353,

Co Cerio VEAL ES (Q2Gi- be SCANTLEG's nerdy ies ta conwere
eth Dis 120 SA SO LAGHTRND commie wes o atresenined 2 GMA) 57,
% Oct case 1938, 509 prey tees eorrespaedeey,

ESRERTA GABELICH © This ts the /tem chat auto the @oel veokt
¢ bEME RICE ta wtatisitee, SoAr i mods 8S Wisk sto thn
jars srt chop end apecesded t otttties wargh totsuanion es make oa

PR.

Berea a

‘SRORBT/RASGE



Ulosb acu

pe oe BK

iets OT ne

ats Csowlay of ths typo Gone tamwlied st LEME

TF Bi
- q@amers Via WAMACLISZ6, 21 Joscury 1939,

Fa

vem, Geren wake aay ° On roag fuse, Joly ead
Hedeasee enort os ihe to

SOF ed Giner? eS FER & coneRhan ots Shoo
4 Ad Iizarast cubract lea Gia,

2 SCART oe hong azeactttog with & ts

cm peper viictad

coactrve tien bes pene
Pith! 20d Gooey wk ccettiaes to

“ig recat ettons smd comes teen
seg the utimer te chaceceice amd

IiG served ts the caina wih ESGrbii S coring
Stren Micke Cty, Ja thls caseceian

NTLING igs eaywrt baer wile te brgavwa elky nae dmanéahis,

HO aovey Caqusyy va enrissay @ eperarings aech as tho EBGEMA1S
2 Be Gugets so ta in iwe accom of tl oremstiog gigas oul per terms bin
dorioe tm w eleweited and etucsro mamMT,

j
|
1
i
‘
i
i
|
i
\
\

L LELAND 2 © SCANTLE Soe cs che edkainie mutee eacarerc etemmectes
“hk L/S, Ler i, RILLGO provid act ational direction 69 Ls. Carta
tile rognattiag potiod, wee 2¢ lon bad hover of SCANTIING take Uvex tee
awal a pet vtoha a 1./5's ecthritice, lwaver, after a fourmomd

atiod o's hoes $ OG snd VLLSO motties wes LYS, 8 wes
Sehe @ cond bs deivviia for XIGO to onerous eesti LZ Lyre

sraxtts °
persecitty apd ited lox lediuated tea be oonid hue he Chrociod by
Risa, Therese, SCANTLING 90 Inger stats KILL OO's
ope etioual metimgy, aliauge ke does emttees os Loadte L/3'a
pret: prolderer,

. Reymasi f, OUROG's Dottes « Dur tez GEREIME’s ahsae o fee

i SECRET APOE |Ki wae 19
! seen

i

has


BS

heckco Cy iy Decemeber iese
Sor SCANTLY. Eas Us Seale i

ond feesty 1M), g Lagi settee exp repstete |
ro AMEE:
A, it woe Ge atiy wissmor :
xe agerines ised |
y LIMGTED, RECALLA i
ara LERMTRAP wor soverah youre, la tack, Rs waa ef ene clos the agere ia {
tin rpe of whaes ctos oper nti aes, }

2 Died = Ves VIALE awratian |
Csi ie exes By for thusoe eh f
BGI sed oad BB aysevacd (3 0 urge, Ths oa
ses ext rey, bz. i supe caes wm tie ema i
% “Be fonkeor may LINECLIT IV {
ce whores GAMILDCG ment roar & Gan kenined of ta veces Le Sd tog y
AMTLING aml the iontes tae © EHS.

vece Ui rem g&ete, The ante
B2 wiory bebe erecta’ b: E
RCE UB SCAN TLIC 2 ain eserro cele » (eue Li MACtIIS, 32
aM HO MW*7OE, 2 lkwumbes 19.8, fer ccublams dewtis ca

+40 Piet AN > ware § echaia3 ond gphecnyroptic eanga thao see peas Eh @,
d dat wha mates oun lv ceases eumidsrelly By seemne ce,
wat ie-i beerly @esitg Nua, COANTLESG, es pearbamiy encicard,
Ti: LAL DSnet Yor OMe C705 al EER,

wg ° Sariog pls onil tos the exited
ay SH ANTS © the Sike RUBBER 60 he és prearnty beter weed,

FE tedeped 2g cao cal, & te bped, rests?
we =, pitucisad seus {2 coarse ef marrems eubecscame, B
vel oe SCANTLENG ts tort ype of capper ezoet tit coe be worden Ge
iw te Sitio & x meey peace to 3a ead et cvesy ofRar chemi ba sds wo pr
& ecaerity sud velus to KUBA BX,

gas ACCOUNT OF DEVELOPMENTS = RAYMOND W, GEREWOR £6 AT

S. Agog Segormerieg - Actdo fram the agwst tefermsetice etvem ba BEA 12568 |
€ Take fae aay aly Ol psitc er devenenee waa GENEID Us Laceriee 153

7 marrige mal, S, eaxteted gid of Lad chu cmt, TR25-368,06 LL, A dar the
qetciu20 of Od Paes Ghee og 8 wedi ing gif to GLARE wes dealgad wD

aor oa CG RRRRDS wih the Ges Heat KLQ ARE thinks Righly af Rte as an britvt iad
S.GA RY has 6 gree stereo! in fs imeiines Gomer, GERENDE te st

+t Gat stage ts a2 where he te beg tuang wo wader peat woes eo fasers bolts
tiem, t Geo por Sire, oe |



nr nce BN PN RE RS AARNE i ik RRNA EAR

saa

r
4
cS
ea
Oo
.
4
¥
>
€

itanieEilliintitiaaiscial sees, Semen

at

wre Tequest @ ey ogrrest tet previa for coms tyne ed gett vermectt bencte 9 ©
wps eloline so be Civul Serving R etlaememt pcogware for FIA

ERIS

<3 Indoxaiccion as thts chin was ovvered
o ritieved od bla LIVEMT/ GASES

othe emus sae ad tee eee
more CHOU Jigs Wire thy Cubans ano cracarecd y
uy thu cya meee ii bs mele wao3 Stam, GLACKETY roeene /

RELBGE af rasgoss wilRy cor (he LYUBRBAY Gervelin sce j

ge Brisiiy susteood bclow ere tha {
WIE maser d daring Ge parted aavercd

4, LEMETED © This bee: Gractiout emoottly, semroty acd othe ioaly

z thvogh Decaohar (9S, Tho base quran, LIELMPTY/

areneetet bis gemll uersecsmss cal tontionte Gp, fe aduicames the

poset fie ef nding puctcezinth 2 of indintinis of teserem, LG cise
mathe deby lo xe on ihe exrtvals emi depagmers of 3 mse

albert rarts of week ess ecrivitien os tie LEE RICK tscat tet i,

ond Cites ctpersse muve Lins en of Martcats wersieg 02 38

kdeep$?y there bp cums 2, see ied

gies oasnestan ashen

4

isthe ceassaesitlirmcidl aathsebeialtnde Sian in cine tka sn Seth

c relacaedion om Lia Six comarcean, Dor fieg fais sleroms periad,
Lin iy /6 wok epgrastsasindy WOO poeoge egns tone ths LOVGTES bess, H

3, LELYEEC « This inse te eparated by LEEMET Ya i$ end £4, ee
4 cetd bowie ties bry ond CHAR, LEIS METY/16 Geass scoot!

SOY Rod wevonieg Sor the bose ele LIEMOTS/13 bis a rors ae
YS zs ts onthe pranices caveat souiiag doytivee warkeeg bars, 1/14

(Ory ofa CESOM tes otey 82x Agere (20009! €p cach cop to phamemnly and des
creates tions 8 apeR prosorizy report, Tee tase pam acd compte
AU RAD? ha gs Oa cock teegat puteeselxy badieewins fede srs Unrs amd cepa rrares,
trots the LEuh BiCK Gumalisina ee Tasos resorts ose filed a to
Sap racist sation an ee asl eoe cal dadlate uaa Gites newkehge |
leat peeveuskey's pxusczed Gaby eciiveyt, LELYARS sie propane 6 H
aoakly repult ox earkases agtv& too a exe Gnd endl wepecta tho linwase piste '
tamer re 6} eli witness acme ging or picking up tidirtdenis at LAcERICE, i
aie ‘aa Kanea pase Boaters see tom Chae bal out 1estsgh LAV £3 COCKS2 |
for tke ceca es somes eisi ouiressea ~ & ease df image or be or egeretionsl!
lperest.} Duyteg CHALE s wore’ elosres fem Moxie Coy, CUSLEZ ma ¢
Sipoctly wits LISDAPTY/ 12, Der tag tate partied cppaantncnet 74,050 ghenagexpins |
were t law tooc the LELTALS bane, |

c LICALLA © Wile LE Y2§ C ent LIMSTED exe coneliem Bessa he
j2atcomgaieg tedbvicksic esestag sad kevevtog the Liv RACE teemed tet foe,
the LICALLA boas ts tie Station's ber oneree ed phonegragia of LRABSTCK

' SECRET/ZAPOE |



eB,

i
5
t
|
a
|
!
1]
al
i
H

Aled Ota I OS Weitichs reaps of pede ams we LAD.

j
|

LICALLA 2 ce enicted te pia

eA we ay

+ ’

ga al es7 tegum3:
Yds, eostiisty, 68 toy major sims by
cto, L/S aval amity owe,
we petted ef thae reg eure v9 ee cntal |
cient Bis cnwcnt @vgacsey

eferizesss perbrd,
2 ERY Lin
epee Bat OE HORI 602" a
So CHE, question « ctoitted

ZMTRAP - LIGNTRAP cosl aden i bo @ wortkediie Rotten emew,
fy 1,40) ciamiassina ch levee bane mace ef asmmetse:
AZo NER $398 eettvitties wi eed urdht
ui tie Suisa’e boos nace ate @ BLRIy RE cage ek md Erthe itwekt |
Fie joct Clim, forveried ro Hordenertare oy é Cetehor 1754, the at tes ko
‘ iis that ae LLENTRAP Ge Gadd be riord 68 rE 89 Busia,
Ponely foot wath: tive clasawt efitrat reslving icadgeeruce ese try tu
itises the vabtde, oa erty venting ta (FES OES AEE Bo te a at ae |
uni odthe eeguat, LEMPTYs ij cad ii dp ee cuocibes peb aa LEENTEAG i
apo ratios,

5B, LSERSEY - This opere tiot cen be thors etertan! an eanewtes Cor mong
tor che katy » Neceurser 1953 paciul, Bocenoy of CURETERC s aches leering
ovikrit ies, be did est evs ths thee a9 trig cad weak & i the susvedieee coma, |
fico, che Sstion oxcxbead tact ft avid be cereching saoor dy just 6 st ee ot
to hve CU RENDE excupnd ta surveliiaace @ the come time tice bs wes tea dit

the ahecnare gait bese aan es eal povionmiag manherieg chores tar LAFES (7

ibs weet Ee gL ra eee RT Seance na

oT Ba AD TS LEASE T wi amie
ine wna toterin Wittea paar, 09 Chet medbte empolicnrs sam,
Se prcerstl, LEGMPT ¥e/1S, 16 aad 17 compose the LES IAEY tom,

P, LIF CAT - Unil 10 December 1958 CERSSOS sorecd so meskeg
ta chro 2aue boa 90 Omas teteg LIF EAT/ 26 MOBMENG ead LEPRAT/ Catan
beties, is ackieles po Livers ts tho tac komo, CORENDR elie iremner thod
Us makcrsy of BeStMOsKING ape! Cobsa Gao tyes, 523 poulenced
these bbe ssthatactesily wore test his eSicteasy was bradicceed by susmecogs

ober ceive, Redisrisy CUREIME of bis LEFEAT Garises exatass hiss 62 dzrors
— zim 3 ro his cous operstions wih a ccerespandng feercoed athe eeu:
all pest souvishe a,

|
|
|
i
|
|
dad Sinea b, é
|
}

| ai ; _SBCBETEAPOK (Bios... 16



oes eee

ee

Lie MPT Yo/4 end § © LIEMPT ¥/ 4 doas a tently peseosicue

5 raat poteeing the base hoes putngreghe, Ha desiicaa

tut ti rola toe te L/4 excep? dust OUSLER mez Clromly wok bee aartag
nikcy 19$3 pariad tee GERENDE was easy {axe Mexion Cay, A
hed (% M/s wile, cxctsssdé doigg seches (rensiatiens 2 a peryoompee fC
EL CERT» i

icc po Ozer them tho fret Get LEEKS EY ead the choree
GF the LIPSTICK pro jects we me esexdeod tee tiie mew psajace,
mere is emis of cigntl bamce to Eepest Co iiss Gyan tera,

inok fe Reuro Derekouerm  Alhoagh act momaieg to be repett bru t

ES 2 Raed eco eras mode ehove, & semegey of the Sea veo { 4

Hi: oo tee Rrture of the LILLATY GRRE OE Saupeeee io bobawed te be epereprivacy

« tha orrtrad of CLACKLTY ety GE PENG oti he frees op davato mld ‘

‘ 2it Ines huge wentiees, GEALIGM ons doe le es paewelneesing

ces by peeparces ee tiem Ooenvakciads piccatese, by touhiy

a 1a Open can aa Lacie met ueds of cpeactinn, by pecs eriag Gstetiod

oR eth bers cet by mupervieag O28 tetsd of Bow puologmens te

EE whe Se ee 33 aat8s os

sod io periny: ather ceviews foe the uetisa wideh |
ja pahmary regen obinion, & & gicraed thet

Me wet te emmane le ie 180 LYCASLT easweis ate team ead cist Be

wtik ec bere mother fest sno lopaatgetve gocayp oe eappes: other Saxton:

Sites C, CRATE

CHO /epe

ai je amacy 1950

Mortetios
hig

1

SECRRT/EZAPOR


i
|

ww ee wee [VS EUR ATUR | KAPOK

}

rT SenySasESpaaass A DQUARIIRS «iE
Chief, WH Division
= 201-119523 \

7 Bait
fase Chief of Station, Mexico City 24 December 1958
aac

Raymond H, GERENDE's Itincrary

a :
ees

sie
None, for Headquarters informarton only. I Lihctacidabahiteabesiiciil

racine

1, In the event Headquarters destres to contact GERENDE while he is in
the U, S., his itinerary is au follows:

2, Reference to Quinton N, OUSLER's true name will be sufficient to

establish the bona fides of a Headquarters officer,
Ds.
MW tld (luPean
Ab Vigne =
Him
December 1958

Distribution
3 Has


Bisr Aion SECRLisg AAPOR
To Chl a, WH DW Lai oa

wo

FROM

Chtet of Station, Mexico Ciry

raat

LIEMPTY/'20 (formerly LIEARL)
ee" hoa ended Uper att oaal Approval srQuaunito me Des Onay
Corrs) _ -_ a

A. HMMA-6321, 15 Merch 1957

& ABMiA@GSU7, 2 April 1958

GQ UML W-6572, 12 July 1958

1, Forwarded herewith are the requisite aumber of copics of « revised
PRQ, Part Ii, om the Subtect tndividvel, It ts requested thet the Cper att ona}

Approval fur tao wes of be ameadol to permis bie uze on LILMPTY/
eee - Hee RE te

2, i is al ao reque ated that Subjoct's ery ptonym be changed tc LIE ” ae
23g, 008 Uast the meconsn gy. He bo takes totuchada- Subject in ths /e"|"
LIEMPTY project, :
i
W ilerd C, CURTIS \
aH, |
2 F ebrua sy 1959 !
is tri besten : |
3 Hage w/ausckment te triplicate |
i
i
i
4
|
ped — |
Sate gig reicca yas ers BAS |



\ Classiriepeessace 3 1

"3B ea/c/e per
DATE 5 8 DECEMBER 1958 SECRET Ny] le]
i cae ED

art a

Lee DIRECTOR ©

at X1CO CITY
1 ATWO a 5
INFO CI, Ci/ops, Ci /oa, s/c 2 bceedltals

IN 35553

INFO cite

DIR MEXI 2915
REt Ay MEX! 2781 (IN 26505) *
“SBS Mex 2836 (IN “30929 ) | or seeieae eee eggs
[ © 888 ~ SINGE\GERENDE WEDDING SET. FOR 12-DEC, REQUEST. ANSWER, REES...
‘ BY 19 DEC,
END OF MESSAGE : f
i
t

CS COMMENT: © REQUESTED AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE PLANE TICKETS TO U.S. FOR
GERCNDE AND BRIDE AS A WEODING GIFT (N RECOGNITION OF GOOD WORK RE HAS DONE,

4

pie serra ane,

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.



538 RLG/SW/

onc» C. ZEHRUNG
ONT WH

Lp S__ ass mecsase

| S-E-C-R-E-T |

pate : Beecewwrn 195
“yo 1 MEXICO CITY
1 ROM + DIRECTOR
CON, WHS
BHO 1 S$/C2

10 INFO CHE DIR

Pe eee

oe :
i :

o/

. Vv

t j oe
t SEC

i RELEASING OFFICE AUTHENTICATING OFFICER i

| REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROHIBITED. Copy Na.

7 Ser rar narererees aoe ens eee eee ee eer eee ceereene €



500 W/O Qi om gy “
Haceseuaone =H CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ne
unt! WH SECRET
et. 2555 5uU
cate, 8 DECEMBER 1958

“10 « MEXICO CITY
feOM: DIRECTOR
conf Sy

wro, S/¢ 2

To MEXL INFO. CHE DIR io.
REF: MEXI 2781 (IN 26585)* 30774
GERENDE GIFT AS OUTLINED PARA 2 REF APPROVED.
i on Creager er 2 ee ate meres
END OF MESSAGE be ner a

C/S COMMENT: * CONCERNED PROPOSED KUBARK WEDDING GIFT FOR RAYMOND H. GERENDE,

yl

y i 1) i
ReBatsunn

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

., £7 GOMEZ,
acieasina orricee

(Copy No.



DIRECTOR
from» __ MEXICO CITY
+ aT WHS
neo\, Cl, Cl/oPs, s/c 2

to DIR WFO

a seis

~~ REP MEXE 2781 (IN 26585)

_J_ STATION INFORMED ORALLY. THAT HGS, NEEQS. KNOW..IF. GERENDE.

PROVIDE FOR $609 WEODING GIFT.

2. STATION PREFERS GIVE $690 GIFT WITHOUT REF TO SALARY.
CONSIDER SALARY RAISE AS RECOGNITION FOR GOOD WORK PERFORMANCE
AND NOT.AS REWARD FOR MARRIAGE, THEREFORE, GIFT SHOULD NOT BE
__ LINKED TO SALARY.

: 3. ASSUMING GERENDE CONTINUES GOOD WORK, STATION PLANS
REQUEST SALARY RAISE WITHIN NEXT FEW MONTHS.

i fed END OF MESSAGE

. C/S COMMENT: *REQUESTED AUTHORITY PURCHASE PLANE TICKETS TO U.S. FOR GERENDE.

sate
&



17 Xovenbor 193%

HY ORAS DIM PKs FI/ 7S - Projects “rach

SUATECT a hedding Gift for Raymond Re GL (pa), aewisen|
. Contract Aveat

open

tourlet clas» ticte:: froa hexte> city tn an Frarsieco and washington |
D.C, 0:5 retam to texte: City. Although tris trio xt aopear to be |
@ gererous and unos-al veduin; rift, t tion considers it 19 nore '
: than Justified in view of uixAl2's outstanding perforsance of his
! duties for the Station and his future value as a princtnal agent. !
UERINDS has been working for the <tation since :ebruary 1755+

i 2. The Station estimates that tie cost of the nlane tickets
will be £599.00. The LIPLTICE Froject, waieh covers ¥SUNiE, ean
absord tiie ad-ed expense.

ere,

} WH/3/Mexico/C.Zehrimg:ngs

b Distribution: |
Orig & 1- Addressee

1-WEMexico Chrono

L- Subject 77. Cie o—

SECRET |

Seite anne nt Ep rne ee Ne nee Ee oe



eee

E>
Fe

ao

433 etfs = CLASSIFIED IAESSAGE og 77”

+ 1) NOVEMBER 58 secret [Gr ioe
ite

433. if

+ DIRECTOR

In 26535

DIR NO ame = MEXI 2781
RE’ -MEXI 2788" (NRE 25d: REE. -aee. SERS

1. RAYMOND H. GERENDE PLANNING MARRY SUBJ REF 12 DEC.

2. AS KUBARK WEDDING GIFT REQUEST AUTHORITY PURCHASE PLANE
TICKETS FROM MEX! TO SAN FRANCISCO TO WASH TO MEXI. ESTIMATE
COST TOURIST CLASS TICKETS $69 U.S. COUPLE PLAN VISIT FRIENDS
IN SAN FRANCISCO AND BRIDE'S PARENTS IN WASH.

3. ALTHOUGH TRIP GENEROUS AND UNUSUAL WEDDING GIFT, STATI
CONSIDERS tT APPROPRIATE AND MORE THAN JUSTIFIED IN VIEW GERENCE
PAST AND FUTURE VALUE AS PRINCIPAL AGENT MEX SUPPORT OPS.

4, NOTHING HAS BEEN SAID TO GERENDE ABOUT PRCFOSED GIFT.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *REQUESTED TRACES ON HESTER RO0S,

*"" "> REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING GFFICE 'S PROHIBITED. Copy Na. 2

ES.



ce : tae
: Fistes |
\
SER \
22 ostoter 155
: . sae SE/o8
5 © carried under
: treteferre: to tie
4 Th and LI-uLT Srfecte.
: new eryptonya essizced :
t
7 \

:
: : i
* 2, Sukincts will certione tothe tase in tre same wore a9 H i
f flerves >. wate oresert bai, act I's, Therefore, po ove te :
i Beeac
tL. ~ - - i
E i
b j
t at

we


ORE OT

Late arasery,
trade

<7 wave Seen carried uncer te
ate trerefer:

we tothe tesc in tre same wore
il'a, TLerafore, po pew



t
i
Eas

. CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
2) SECRET

[When Fld Oe
PERSOMAUTY (260) FILE REQUEST

iy) ‘bare
RI/ANALYSIS SECTION | 2h oct B

L
FROM

Voom no
__ Charlotte L, Zehr mg |_ 2120 Barton Rall 2758

mUSTEUCTIONS: reant be tsped of petedd in Mok betters

SECTION & (an 20" ear ber, naine and edeanfvang data sn tle aynaes pranwded. AIL Loin alias aed variants incluting madden tame
applcalic) must Le intel Whe idenufiing dara vanes with the alias wsed,a weparate form must br ward. Write UNKNOWN Gx ter vay
fe unatde ta complete. iz

SECTION Hh Last cree no paendonym. asmigned  Ifuue maine in owtve. obtain 20) oumter from 201 Contrad Deak and conic
Secuua P and Senet HT arate fem, enter the 20% number and complete Srctwun [and Section HIT. Suteat each kame wept
SECTION tit Tu be comgécted in all cases

SECTION

Bie

uae 201-19523
Z ns

SECTION

7 Trnconrn
oe =z),

SECTION ITT fie
10 V7 seconw commer emeist 12. 0 tad Coury erent

[dalam "|

Hote change in scbject's cryptonyn from LIPSTICK-20
te LIEMPTY-1

tema

PORTS 831 wren come,

sew antler a eee ON



50-6-25/3
201-119523

i
t
1

Tan

"Review of Raymond H, GERENDE's Operations ead

Activities a et
acim vw cease -— E
Headquarters study end comments, [| Breiitote oist one

1, The eubject paper ts attached, It ts belteved that Headquartera will
bave a clearer piccure of what GERENDE ta doting at tho presem time together
with eeverel teformartve facts concerning tbe security of CEAENDE'a overationa,
Also taciided in this peper are several recommendations which the Stattoa pro~
poses to tmplecreat tuxrough Project LIEMPTY, Obvtoualy, some of the recom-
mendations are goals to work for end, because of 2 lack of perconmel and other
valid reasons, consot ba tnmodistely adopted,

2, ‘The attached paper chould be read ta coapmettca with the new LIEMPTY
fleld project onsine, ‘wkich was recently forwarded to Heacquarters, Please nota,
however, that the old agest cryptoayms are used ta this paper. oper

3, The attachment hae bees read and approved by Kistthew S. DINGLEY,

GERENDE was recently assigned to Quinton N, Oualer.

4, GERENDE ts cas of the most valuzble assets of this Station, This
review ts coasidered to be a worthwhile exercise; lat vader the present
pace end with presest esscis, security comps rimentattos, wiles ‘9 desiranie,
came be achieved, Tho maia security precanica (viz gesting GERENDE ot of |
Mexico City and well hidden ta case of an emexgeacy) will constantly be kept
iu mind, |

WILLARD C, CUBTIS

QNO/vpa
21 October 1958

Distriburtos:
3 Has (w/sttechments)

whe feérahed tile ‘exceReat agest (GERENDE) and.was hie. Cass Officer math aoc hefone~


pent

SECRET

OPERATIONAL SECURITY REVIEW OF
AYMOND H, GEXE} S
OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES

1, SITUATION

As a result of the Jume 1958 LIPSTICK flap, it was decided by the Chief
of Station on 30 Jume 1958 thet Quinton N, CUSLER would assume dircct contact
with several of Matthew S, DINGLEY's agents, one of whom was Raymond H,
GERENDE, After being tarroduced to GERENDE by DINGLEY on ! July 1958,
COUSLER assumed contact re {bilities with GERENDE on.2 July 1958, On -2 ~~
18 July 1958, the Chief of Station decided that OUSLER should be agatzned
permanent responsibility for the management and Lavine de of GERENDE and
GEKENDE's op: rations, . ote SRE RNR

2, PURPOSE ,
The purpose of this operational security review ts threefold:

a, To tdentify possthle security problems and conditions;
Tc establish a framework ior recommendations which will
result tn the Station's submission of a new support project
(LIEMPTY) with Raymond H, GERENDE as a principsi agent; and
c To acquaint the new case officer with the operational problems
and agent pereonnel with which be should have a comprehensive |
knowledge ais! detatled understanding,

3, PRINCIPAL AGENT - Raymond H, GERENDE

a Background + GERENDE has been employed by KUBARK since
18 March > which was fust prior to his graduation from the Mexico
Ctty College. He ts now only 24 years of age, but in the Station's opinton,
1s a mature, experienced and dedicated KUBARK contract ageat, During
the three and one-half years that he has been working for the Mexico

City Station, GERENDE ‘has participated in a varied assortment of support
and intelligence operations, Inirially, he was trained and used by Matthew
S. DINGLEY es a member of the LIPSTICK survetilance team, In addition,
to surveillance work, he was used as an investigator to collect operational
data on persons and organizations of interest to the Station, He quickly
demonstrated a capacity for leadership and at one time was the leader of i
the LIPSTICK team, He has been used as a LIFEAT Base House operator

SECRET



.» formal projects.such a8: BGMORNING:

SECRET

and processor of tapes; he has excelled in thia type of work because of
his bi-lingual Spanish/English faciiiy and, more importantly, due to
his diversified cxpertence in clandestine operations which permits him
to spot operational leads much more readily than the average LIFEAT
monitor,

b, Duties - GERENDE ts currently serving as the principal egem
in charge of LIMITED, LiCALIA, LIPSTICK Photo Truck, LIJERSEY
Surveillance Team and LILYRIC, In additton, he montrors and processes
the EGMORNING and Cuban Exiles LIFEAT taps, He also supervises
the photographic processing of LIPSTICK~-38 (his brother-tn-law) and the
translation work of LIPSTICK~-40 (his aister), Hic maintains contact with .
and provides administrative support to LIMITATIONS 5 and 6, LICOOL-7
Base operators, Quite obviously GERENDE's many ¢ 8 overlap the
bounds of several Station operations, namely LIPSTICK, LERSEY,
LIFEAT, LICOOL and several activittes which are not listed under
is recognized’ by the Station “”~
that {t {s not advisable to have one principal agent connected with as
many operations ag is GERENDE, However, the present scarcity of
both staff and contract agents of the principal agent type necessitate
such efficiency measures, Every effort {s being made to compartment
the various segments of GERENDE's operations and to decrease, and
to eliminate where possible, all lateral communtcations between
agents,

C Security Problems - The most sertous security situation
surroundhng CERERDE ‘and his many activities {s the fact that

LIPSTICKS 12 and 30 (two of the LIPSTICK Team members arrested

fn the June 1958 flap) know GERENDE by true name, end knew that he

algo worked for KUBARK. In iact, LIPSTICK-30 ts a close personal
friend of GERENDE's and was originally recommended for KUBARK
employment by GERENDE, The operational security hypothesis that

can be constructed from these existing acquaintances are too numerous

to list in this brief review; suffice to say that should GERENDE be
arrested by one of the local police agencies, most of the remaining
support aszete would be destroyed or so seriously compromised that

the Station would indeed be foolish to continue using them, It ts
appropriate to state here, however, that netther GERENDE nor the

Sxation believes that GERENDE has yet been named or otherwise
identified ag a result of the LIPSTICK flap, It is granted though that

any future questions by oae of the local police agencies to the compro-
mised LIPSTICKERS represents a continuing type of danger for GERENDE,
Based on the duties which GERENDE ts currently performing, the readers
of this review can well imagine what the consequences to several operations

SECRET

pee



SECRET

would be tf GERENDE were arrested by one of the local police agencies
and interrogated tn detail, Also, the Station must forever be aware that
the Incal police agencies sre certainly capable, for only a few dollars, of
selling tnformation concerning KUBARK to the Soviets and/or Satellites,

d, Recommendations - It would be unwise to consider terminating
GERENDE since he {a a high)y competent agent and since his termination
would not eliminate the fact that he knows a great deal about the Stattoa's
support operations, He nas becn reminded several times, and the Case
Officer will continue to remind him, that his tradecraft professionalism
must (mprove and stay ahead of the increasing sophistication of the local
police agenctes and opposition services operating in Mextoo,

“© It ta thé’optnton of the Station that GERENDE should continue
to be used tn about the same ranner that he {s presently betag used, It
would be advisalle, however, to separate him from the two LIF,
fuméz (Orie HB ia cirtently handling” BOMORNING ‘tid the ‘Cuban
taps, This ta suggested not only because of the possible future security
ramifications, but also because GERENDE does not have time to run
Properly hig support mechanism and to monitor taps seven days a week,

To provide for a situation whereby one of the local police
agenctes becomes aware of GERENDE's tlegal activities and assuming
that ether GERENDE or the Station learns of this before the local police
agency can take positive action, it {s imperative that a warning system
of communtcations be established to facilitate GERENDE's removal
from Mexico, Arrangements such as those used for Wilfred O, CLOWER .-
could be set up or local arrangements could be made with ODUNIT or
ODOATH for a more expeditious exit from Mexico, The Case Officer
will develop this plan in detail,

OPERATIONS
a, Limtred

@) = Target ~ Stationary photographic surveillance of persons
emterlag tnd Jeaving the LIMERICK tnstallation,

(2) Personnel - LIPSTICK-14 ts the agent tn charge of the
LIMITED Base, According to GERENDE, LIPSTICK-14 ts
conscientious, security minded, speaks no English, and on
occasion ts a bit over confident. He performs his operational
dutfes competently and with discretion, In addition to his
photographic duties, he is also used ocrastonally as a one-man

SECRET



“his mother and father, Although LIPSTICK-28 has been

SECRET

foot surveillance to follow individuals leaving the LIMERICK
installation, LIPSTICK-14 receives a monthly salary of $1,800.00 '
(MN) and free rent and utilities at the LIMITED Base, His wife
(LIPSTICK-27) and aoa (LIPSTICK~23) live with him at the LIMITED
Base,

LIPSTICK-28 until 15 July 1958 assisted his father with photo-
graphic work at the LIMITED Base, However, on the above
date he decided to resiyn from his LIMITED job and, strange
as {t may seem, to devote full time to working on a chicken
farm, LIPSTICK-28 made this deciston on hig own and against
the wishes of his father, He will continue to live at the
LIMITED Base and ft {a believed that no security problems will
result, since any security difficulties could adversely affect

terminated and a termination report forwarded to Headquarters,
At Ae suggested that we maintain hig,operational approval since:
“he continvés to live tn the LIMITED Base,

eaiperdee

(3) Communtcations - At the present time GERENDE meets
with LYPSTICR-14 three times a week at contact points away from
the Base, They have seven separate contact points which are
used for their meetings, Usually the place of contact is pre- 1
arranged at the previous meeting; however, a rapid means of
communication exista whereby GEREN! ICK-14
and through a pre-arranged open code,

numbers, sets the time and place of contact, LIPSTICK-14's
overt occupation is|
consequently, there ts a cover basis for such a telephonic
conversation, A reserve system of communication with LIPSTICK-14
has not yet been arranged, GERENDE has been instructed to do
thig a8 soon as possible, thereby giving the Station a means to
contact LIPSTICK-14 directly should the need ever arise,

(4) ~~ Security- Excluding KUBARK staff personnel, the LIMITED
Base fs to LIPSTICKS-2, 14, 27 and 28 and to Oliver

G, SCANTLING and Raymond H. GERENDE and possibly to
LIPSTICK-12 (GERENDE's opinion), Since LIPSTICK-14 has

known LIMEWATER (LIFEAT Project) for many years and since
LIMEWATER is LIPSTICK-2's brother, tt ts important to recognize
that the desirable degree of compartmentation between LIPSTICK/
LIMITED and LIFEAT probably does not exist, Although LIMEWATER
must be aware of LIPSTICK-14's and 2's PRPRIME employment,

it has not beea possible to ascertain the extent of LIMEWATER'’s
knowledge about thetr specific activities, and vice versa, LIPSTICK-14,

SECRET



eel

b,

wR

SECRET

worked with James O, AYCALL (LIMESTONE) during WW-II;
however, he claims that the cnaly members of AYCALL's family
that he ever met was AYCALL's "sieved wife," Since she saw
him only one time many years ago, LIPSTICK-14 does not
believe thst she would recogiize him now,

Neither GERENDE nor LIPSTICK~-14 are aware that KUBARK
owns the LIMITED Base House, The extant of their knowledge
ia that LIMOUSINE ts the owner and we simply rent from him,

Ligeti

(5) Recommendartons = It ts recommended that CERENDE

continue to meet with LIPSTICK-14 and to superyise his operation,
thia comectton,-GERENDE has béen tnstructed to reorganize

ig extsting communtcations arrangements with LIPSTICK-14 to

include a new regular system, a rapid non-scheduled system and

@ reserve system, Also, GERENDE ts to review with LIPSTICK-14

their cover reasons for mecting and knowing each other and to be

prepared to use this cover story should they ever be apprehended

together,

LIPSTICK-14 was instructed on 8 August 1958 to ceage all
soctal and business contact with LIPSTICK-2, Oliver G,
SCANTLING, who has previously handled LIPSTICK-14 and sees
him occasionally even now, has been directed to ceage all
contact with the LIMITED Base and LIPSTICK-14 except when
approved by the Case Officer, (NOTE: h ts necessary at times
for SCANTLING to debrief LIPSTICK-14 for LIMESA leads),

LILYRIC

(1) Target - Stationary photographic surveillance of persona
ent leaving the LIMERICK installations,

(2) Personnel - LIJERSEY-5 is personnel manager of a
Mexican affillate of a large PBPRIME company, In addirton to
serving ag a spotter for potential surveillance team members, he
also serves as the cutout for the LILYRIC Base, GERENDE
manages and directs the LILYRIC Base through LIJERSEY-5,
LIJERSEY-S5 matntains direct contact with LIFERSEY-2, the

Base House operator, and his wife, LIJERSEY-12, who does

most of the photographic work, LIJERSEY-5 is a PBPRIME
citizen, He is paid a monthly salary of $1,000.00 (MN).

SECRET



SECRET «

LIJERSEY-2 ts the LILYRIC Bage operator, He {s a Captain tn
eee eee an industry engiee
ag an tndustrialengineer, He receives

a monthly salary of $1, (C0, 00 (MN) and he and his wife live rent
and uttlittes free in the LILYRIC Base,

LIJERSEY~12 ts the wife of LJERSEY-2, She docs most of the
photographic and reporting work at the LILYRIC Base and haa

proven herself to be a capable and worthwhile asset, It has

been necessary for her to become proficient in the LILYRIC work

since her husband works ot his regular job during the day, She

receives a monthly salary of $800,00 (MN), _ ob

(3) Communications - GERENDE contcta LIJERSEY-S5 twice

weekly at prearranged contact pointe during the late.aftemoon a | =
hours, “LERSEY=5'tontacts LIFERSEY-2 two to three times

weekly at prearranged car Contact points and receives the "take"

from the LILYRIC Bage, On occasion GERENDE has contacted
LIJERSEY-~2 directly, but this procedure is used only when LIERSEY-5,
is out of town or otherwise not available, GERENDE does not

know LIERSEY~12 or vice versa, Norcserve syatem of come
muntcattons exists whereby a Station officer could contact

LIJERSEY-2 directly should the need arise; however, GERENDE has
been instructed to set up such a system of communications, The

same will be done with LIJERSEY-§, although he {a known to

several Station officers and little difficulty would be experienced

in contacting him directly,

(4) Security - The security of the LILYRIC Base eppears,

at least oa paper, to be in better shape than the Limited or
LICALLA Bases, Insofar as the Case Officer has been able

to determine, the only tndigenous agents aware of the LILYRIC
Base are GERENDE, LIJERSEYS 2, 5 and 12, and LIPSTICKS

38 and 40, and all of these individuals have a close connecticn
with the operation of the Base, The only tie-in the LILYRIC Base
bas with the LIPSTICK operations is through GERENDE,

(5) | Recommendations - GERENDE has been inetructed

to change his meeting plans with LIJERSEY-5 andto review -

the communications set-up between LIJERSEY-5 and LIJERSEY-2

(L-5 and L-2 are long-time friends and, consequently, the

cover problem ts minimized), A staggered schedule of

coverage of the LIMERICK target between LILYRIC and LIMITED

was initiated on 18 August 1958, Although the operators of

these two bases are unaware of the existence of the other,

a suitable cover story has been worked out to satisfy any

SECRET seein



|
|

Cc

SECRET

curtosity thet LIPSTICK~-14 and LIJERSEYS-2 and 12 may have. This
procedure is believe dzstrable due to the confining nature of the
photographic tasks and the lack of add{ttonal personnel to assist

at each of the bases, Also, thia stoggered schedule of coveraye
should reduce some of the duplication presently coming tn from

the two bases,

LICALLA

() Target - Stationary photogrp hic survetIlance of persons
and activities in the garden area of the LIMERICK installation,

(2 Personnel - LIPSTICK-39, his wife and three small children
.._live at dic LICALLA Base, He 1a an| EEE |
ind works at hfa Gover job‘tn the evenings, “LIPSTICK-39 ~

does an excellent and ccnsactentious job of photographic coverage

at the LICALLA Base, In addition to the photos he takes, he
writes a narrative description of the events which take place
in the target's garden area, He reccives a monthly salary of
$2,000, 00 (MN) and free rent at the LICALiA Base,

(3) Communtcations - GERENDE meets LIPSTICK-39 twice
weekly, usually on Tucsdaya and Thuradays, They have four
contact points, one of whitch ts selected at each meeting for

use for the next meeting, In the event that contact 1s not
established, GERENDE has the tnitiative tn contacting LIPSTICK-39
by phoning him at the bus line office during the evenings, Then, by
prearrangcd open code, a meeting site and tine are agreed on,
Stnce Oliver G, SCANTLING is also acquainted with LIPSTICK-39,
{t would be posstble to contact him through SCANTLING should
something happen to GERENDE, However, to facilitate proper

and gecure communications procedures, GERENDE has been
dtrected to establish a reserve system of communications with
Ltpstick-39, using the customary oral and physical bonafides,

(4 Security- The most sertous security problem concerming
LICACLE Gs the fact that LIPSTICK-39 ts the brother of
LIPSTICK-47 ]
aes | Although it ts generally
believed by Station officers that LIPSTICK-39's name was not
mentioned by LIPSTICK~-47 nor that any indication was given
concerning LIPSTICK-39's job, tt must be understood that
should the local police agency decide later to interrogate
LIPSTICK-47, the probability exists of compromising LIPSTICK-39
and LICALLA, The Station sees no way to overcome this
possibility,

SECRET



SECRET

It is {nsportant to note here that LICALLA occuptcs one of the four
LIMUST properties, While tt tg believed that LIPSTICK-39 does
not know that KUBARK owrs the Base or has anything to do with
the other three houses, it {s entirely concetvable thar should one
of the local police agenctes or the LIMEAICK ptrsonnel become
aware of LICALLA acttvitics, they could very eastly arrive at
some logical conclusions about all of t:2 LLMUST property, This
would be detrimental, if noc fatal, to our alms, However,
another Station viewpoint on this same problem ts that {f compromtsed,
LICALLA would divert suspicion from, rather than to, LIMUST,
Should one of the local police agenctes begin an tnvesttgarton which
might tnvolve LIMUST and LICALLA, then LICALLA could be”
sacrificed to protect the LIMUST Base, These possibilities

become somewhat theoretical and perhaps tmpractical due a a
to the lack of predicttbility of the local polite agencies, but‘neverthe=
lesa must be weighed one against the ovher,

In view of the apparent importance of the LIMESA/LIMUST
operation @ lot of thought and discussion have transptreri at the
Station about cc -tinuing the LICALLA operation in its present
location or suspending {t for the immediate future and attempting
to find another suitable locetion away from the LIMUST property,
A sound ergument can be made for termt{nating the base since such
an alternative might have the effect cf limtring any knowledge
LIPSTICK-39 may have about the LIMESA/LIMUST tnatalation,
However, the termination of a productive base such as LICALLA
would require an explanation to LIPSTICK-39 which could not help but
leave him a bit suspicious, For Headquarers information, the
local rental lawe are such that LIPSTICK-39 would not be able to
comprehend why we did not insist on him maintaining “squatters
rights" (as stated previously, LIPSTICK-39 apparently does not
know that we own LICALLA or even have en interest tn any of the
other LIMUST properties) which can easily be done in Mexico,
Therefore, any attempt to terminate LICALLA might cause more
of a security problem with LIPSTICK~-39 than permitting

LICALLA to operate as it is now, Another posstbiltty would be
terminating LIPSTICK-39 and putting another agent in the present
LICALLA Base, If this measure were followed, it would not
eliminate the fact that LIPSTICK-39, even tf termtnated, would
ettll know of the existance of the present LICALLA Base. Still
another possibility would be to terminate LIPSTICK-39 and the
LICALLA Base; however, since LICALLA and the other LIMUST
properties are ostensibly owned by one man, LIMOUSINE, suspicions
end investigations could still lead to LIMUST,

(5) Recommendations - The Station ts inclined not to “rock the
SECRET

BEBE See

wie



SECRET i

boar” at this stage of the game and suggests that we matnuatn
LICALLA at its present locatton and with ite present operator,

LIPSTICK-39, Cne al:criative appears to be about cs good as another
a this caee, and tr is an acknowledged fact thet LICALLA, at ita
present location, ts a worthwhile and productive asset, Heads

quarters {daa and comments on the LICALLA Base would be
epprectated,

At the present time ir ts planned to move LIPSTICK-39 and famlly
to & furnished apartment when the time comes to remodel the
LICALLA Base, After completion of the remodeling, LIPSTICK=39
and family will return to the present LICALLA Base,

PHOTO TRUCK

iT
qa) Target ~ Investigative asset used for taking eurreptitious
phocograpts ‘of persona, places and things that are from time ta’s=**
(ifne of interest to the Station and Headquarters,

(2) Personnel - LIPSTICK~2, as indicated by the low numerical \
dcaignatton of his cryptonym, has been employed by KUBARK for
geycral years, At the present time LIPSTICK-2 s responsible
for the day-to-day operation of the photographic surveillance
truck, He {s also used occasfonally to spot and rent operetional \
apartments, In the past, LIPSTICK-2 has served as team leader 1
of a low level surveillance team (which was compromised and
subsequently disbanded), as a LIFEAT line inspector (when he
was not busy with the photo truck), and as a statt surv.
man (e,, used as an outside sentry during the March 1958
entry of the LIMUST Base by KUTUBE/D, KURIOT and KUCLUB
techniclans, (NOTE: LIPSTICK~-2 waa assigned the task of
watching the eaitfre area during the day for any wuisual activity
on the part of target personnel, He was not told that he was to
watch a specific house, He was dismissed from his static sure
veillance before dusk and the Headquarters technictans did not
enter LIMUST until after 2030 hours.) LIPSTICK-2 ts the brother
of LIMEWATER (LLFEAT Project) and LIPSTICK-34 (LIPSTICK
Surveillance team member) ts LIPSTICK~-2's wife's nephew.
LIPSTICK-2'a cover ts buying and selling cars; however, about
the only business he has tn this comection is when he buys and
sells cars for KUBARK. His cover is quite weak, He recetves

& monthly salary of $3, 200,00 (MN) plus $600, 00 (MN) per month
for the use of his personal car.

SECRET

t



SECRET

LIPSTICK~24 does not know GERENDE and, presumably, knows
only LIPSTICK-2, with whom he works on the photo truck, His
cover {s as a salesman of electrical appliances; however, he

does not pursue his cover job to the desirable extent, LIPSTICK-24
was recruited by LIPSTICK~2 about one year ago and ts currently
recetving a salary of $1,000.00 (MN) per month, Since he hag

now worked a year for the Station, and performed satisfactorily,
hte salary should be ratsed to $1, 200,00 (MN) per month (LIEMPTY
will provide for this increase),

|
t

(3) Communications - GERENDE meets LIPSTICK-2 two to three

times'a week, These meetings are arranged by phone and take

place at previously selected contact points which can be referred

to in telephonic conversations by innocent sounding code names,

LIPSTICK-2 also knows GERENDE's true name, where he ves, and i

his phone number, In the past he has had occaaton,to telephone

GERENDE et the latter's’ LIPSTICK-2 INGLEY, and

could, in an emergency situation, contact DINGLEY, However,

GERENDE has becn tnstructed to arrange a complete communtca- |

ttons plan with LIPSTICK-2, tncluding a reserve meang of contact,

For security reasons, GERENDE has been instructed to inform '

LIPSTICK=2 that his only contract is with GERENDE and that in
i}
|
t
i
t
|
t

the future he ts uot tocontact anyone else in the organtzation
without GERENDE's permission, Also, that should contact with
GERENDE be disrupted, he {s to await for the higher echelon to
establish contact with him (all agents under GERENDE are being
instructed), This {s particularly {mporiant in the case of
‘tpstick-2, since he has by-passed GERENDE tn two or three
in the past.

(4) Security- Probably the most serious security situation
involving the photo truck, LIPSTICK=2 and Lipstick-24 ig the
basic knowledge of the LIPSTICK surveillance team that such an
esset exists, even to the point that one of the team members
LIPSTICK-34) is the listed owner of the photo truck, The personal
knowledge of LIPSTICK-2 about the LIFEAT operation also represents
@ security hazard of the first class, For example, if LIPSTICK-2
were compromised and arrested as a result of his activities,
there 1s a possibility that he could compromise his brother,
LIMEWATER, the LIMITED Base and LIPSTICK-14, GERENDE
and our interest in the highly sensitive LIMESA/LIMUST operation,
(NOTE: According to the LIFEAT Case Officer and the former
LIPSTICK Case Officer, both LIMEWATER and LIPSTICK-2 have
been reminded on several occasions during the past few years
that they were not to discuss any aspect of their operations with
each other, Also, LIPSTICK-2, to the best of the Station's

SECRET



a,

SECRET

knowledze, does not know the location of any of the LIFEAT
Base houses),

A new truck should be purchased as soon as possible to reph:ze
the present truck, The new truck should be purchased in an
assumed name and vehicle papers should list an untraceable
address, LiPSTICK-2 has already been informed that he {a to
have no contact with LIPSTICK-14 or any other uperattonal
Personnel he may know except, of course, LIPSTICK-24,

with whom he works, and GERENDE, who supervises his
acttvittea, In addition to the above, the Statton should begin
thinking about a replacement agent for LIPSTICK-2 and every
effort whould be made to set up an independent and compartmented
photo truck operation, Thia‘would'permit’the eventtial termination
of LIPSTICK-2, after we have given him several months to

reduce his knowledge of current operations,

LYERSEY

(1) ‘Terget - Foot survetllance and investigative support of
other Batist operations,

(2) Personnel - — LIJERSEY-=4 tu of @ low soctal clasa and
lives with his mother in a slum area of Mexico City. He ta

the sole support for his mother and several younger brothers

and sisters, He ts described by GERENDE as having a lot of
ambition and a strong desire to improve his standard of living

and position in fe, The Station has found him to be a good
observer and, consequently, adequate for static surveillance
work, Although he now has his drivers license, he ts not a
capable driver and probably will never develop into one,
GERENDE has been encouraging LIERSEY-4 to obtain employment
88 @ salesman to supplement his KUBARK income of $1,000, 00
(MN) and to establish himself tn a cover job, However, LNERSEY-4
has not yet obtained such employment, It is ‘the Station's

opinion that LIJERSEY-4 ts definitely an asset of mited value

and will never develop into the high-calibre survetllance asset
which the Station really needs,

LYJERSEY-8's struation ts about the same as LERSEY-4's,

He lives with hts famtly and ts currently taking highschool

courses (LIJERSEY~4 is doing the same), He ts not an imaginative
talker and has difficulty making up cover stories and spur-of-the-
momen excuses and explanaticns - the vital qualifications for a
good surveillance man, He is the best driver of the three LERSEY

LeRnrven



SECRET

|
team members and with more practice will probably develop H
frto a capable and dependable driver, LIJEXSEY-& has
recently shown a commendable amount of tnittative where his
euver sirarion is concerned, He has obtained a job as a

. tndtvidual, He epeake fairly good English! ” He performs pret:

according to GERENDE, is making a substantial amount of “pin”
money, However, as in the case of LERSEY-4, LIJERSEY-8
te at best an asset of only Mmited value, LIJERSEY-8 aleo
receives a salary of $1,000,00 (MN) per month,

LIJERSEY-13 does not know LIJERSEYS-4 and 8 and vice versa,
LIJFRSEY-13 ts better dressed than the other two team members
and can pags as a better educated and more socially flexible

tavestigation assignments with facility and imagination and is |
adept at nuking up cover stortes, In brief, he makes a good H
impression on the people he interviews, He ts not a good

driver and is too nervous to develop into one, His salary is

$1,000, 00 (MN) per month,

(3) Communications - GERENDE has datly contact arrange-
ments with the three LIERSEYS, Prearranged meeting places
are used on designated days of each week and the LIJERSEYS are
tnstructed to go to each meeting, They have standing instructions
to continue soing to thetr meeting site:

setting up new and more complete communications arrangements
with the three LIERSEYS.

(9 - Insofar as knowledge of other operations,
percent rat nsacte is ices he LIJERSEYS appear to have
the best security of any of the operations handled by GERENDE,
New communications plans with the LIJERSEYS w ill do much
toward increasing security and ability to meet contingencies,
GERENDE will be instructed to give refresher training to all

three LIJERSEYS in operational security, cover and communications,
The major danger existing with the LIERSEY team, and with any
survetilance team, is the possibility of compromise and arrest

by one of the local police agencies, Should this happen, GERENDE
and his other operations would be placed in considerable danger,

SECRET



SECRET

For this re2son, ff a not advisable to have GERENDE
connected with a surveillance team and <iso contacting and
directing the sensitive photo base houses, Therefore, until such i
time es a culiable asset can be developed or acquired to take over
the LIERSZY team, thetr actual surveillance assignments will
be kept at the mtaimum,

(5) Recommendations - It is suggested tha the LIJERSEY

framework be used for the recruitment ci at least three competent

and higher class local nationals for use ca surveillance sssign- |

ments, After the recruitment of such tndividuals, tr may be

suggested that LIJERSEYS-4 and 8 be terminated, LJ] ERSEY-13 should

remein as an independent investigative asset to conduct “credit”

and other type of irles which he can co without help from

other agents, LIJERSEY-S has already been asked to spot

prospective candidates of a higher soctal standing for use ona

new surveillance team; however, even under optimum condittons, |

one and a half years will be required to get such a team functtoning, i

In order to recrutt the type of team member that will be most i
{

worthwhile to the Seation, we must plan to pay a minimum starting
salary of $1,600.00 (MN) per month, The cost of living in

Mextco ts continually on the rise and where $1,000.00 (MN)

was a good salary one to two years ago, it really is not adequate today,

LIFEAT

QQ) Ta - Conversations coming from two telephone taps,
BGMO! and honan exiles,

(2 Personnel - - GERENDE lives in the apartment where these
two ltpes are maintained, He personally processes the take 1

tt to OUSLER for Station dissemination 7
to (BGMORNING) in :
G accordance with LIFEAT pi » is supposed to ‘

remain in this apartment seven days a week, However, this is
impossible due to his other operational assignments and ectiviries,

(3) Communications - GERENDE meets daily with OUSLER
to pass the LIFEAT take" and to discuss other operational

i
|
@ + I ts not a good security practice to have a |
Ne a ae working on anything txcepe LIFEAT. Other H
duties, which GERENDE certainly has, limir one’s capability |
for matmatning the required security alermess for telephone |

SECRET



SECRET

repairmen cnd athers who might accidentally discover one of
our LIFEAT taps, Also, should GERENDI: be compromised

any of his other opcrations, & ta concetvable that the
EGMORNING and Cuban Exiles LIFEAT teps would be discovered
by oue of the local police agencies.

(5) Recommendations - ht ta suggested that a replacement
be found as scoa a possible to relieve GLi\.NDE of his present
LIFEAT duttes,

g LICOOL-7 niet

Cd) Target- A plamed technical installation against a person
f of intérest (6 the Station and to Headquarters,

(2 Personnel - LIMITATIONS end hia wife, LIMITATION-6, |
are the LICUUL-7 Buse House operators, LIMITATION-5 has
been with KUBARK for several years, Ho wey at one time the
LIAXIOM Base House operator, He presently works for the

DuPout Company, He dreases well, speaks eor.e English

and could be described as belonging to the rising middle class of

H Mexicans, His wifs can do photographic work and haa had previous
Hl experience with KUBARK ta the dlepatching of car survelllances

by radio, LIMGTATIONS-S end 6 are not prriiciparing in any

| acttve work pending the installation of LICOOL-7 in their apartment, |
i LIMUTATION-S receives a monthly salary cf $200.00 (MN) and
i LIMITATION-6 recetves $400. 00 (MN) monthly,
|

(3) Communications - A complete communications plan does
not exist between GERENDE and LIMITATION-S, At the present
ttme it is only necessary for GERENDE to ace LIMITATION-5
deatres to visit the {
apartment for technical surveys and other work, Therefore, |
' GERENDE and LIMITATION-5S te |
i means of getting together, So far, this has worked quite well, but i
it wiil be necessary later to set up @ more sophisticated |
i

communications system,

(4 + The operational aspects of LICOOL-7 are under

the [ction of Matthew S, DINGLEY; therefore, the author

of this report {s not familiar with the security - ramifications, if i
any, surrounding this technical {nstallatton and the agents operating tr. :

(9) Recommendations - None,

|. es : SECRET



SECRET

bh MISCELLANEOUS |
‘ Also on the payroll ag worthwhile assets are GERENDE's brother-tn- i
| law, LIPSTICK-38, and hia aster, LIPSTICK-40, GERENDE end LIPSTICK- i
38 process and prim all the LIMITED, LILYRIC, LICALLA and truck {
photoa, LIPSTICK-40 does non-sensitive translation work for the Statton, |
Both LIPSTICKS-38 and 40 are handled by GERENDE, They do not have i
contact with other ayenrs or with 11tlon officers, LIPSTICK-38 recetves
' @ monthly salary of $1,000,00 (MN), LIPSTICK-40 receives the equtvalent |
1 or $1.75 U. S, tn pesos per hour for her work, |
'
| 1
|

Although tt ts not adviseable from the security point of view to have any __
tndigenous agent aware of all three of our LIMERICK photographic bases and
the phoro truck, the load on the Statten photographer several months ago
resulted in just such a solution to the problem, Previously, GERENDE and __
LIPSTICK-38 had processed only the photographs from LIMITED, LILYRIC and
the truck,

5. RECOMMENDATIONS

Recommendattons have een included in several sections of this paper,

! ‘These same recommendations, excepting those which have already been carried out
or are in the process of implementation, arc listed below in a composite form

to facilitate the readers’ overall comprehenston,

a Contiaue the reorganization cf communtcation arrangements
with all agests,

b Relieve GERENDE of hia LIFEAT duties (B GMORNING and Cuban
Exiles taps) as soon as possible,

c Continue to use GERENDE for the time being as the principal
agent in charge of LIMITED, LILYRIC, LICALLA, the Photo Tnuck,
LIJERSEY, LIMITATIONS-S5 and 6, and LIPSTICKS 38 and 40,

| a Arrange a warning system of communications fer removing
GERENDE to PBPRIME should he be compromised to one of the local
police agencies,

e Purchase a new photo truck for use by LIPSTICKS 2 and 24,

f. Begin planning for a compartmented photo truck operation
which will later perm{t termination of LIPSTICK-2,

it” Ze Spot and recrutt at least three indigenous agents from the
middle class soctal level to form the nucleus of a new LIJERSEY

: SECRET



gurveillance team,

h, Eventually separate GERENDE from either LIJERSEY gurvetllance
team duties or the three photoyraphic base houses, preferably the former,
The two types ef activities are not compatible with each other end should
not be handled by the same principal agent,

t. Implied, tat not specifically stated elacwhere in this paper,

{a the suggestion that GERENDE be given a "cooling off" and training

period of two to three months In PUPRIME, Of course, this will not

be possible until other assets are developed to take over GERENDE'B

present duties, After his recur from PBPRIME, GERENDE could be

used to develop new support assets which would be completely compartmented
from all of his previous operations, personnel and activitles,

6, CONCLUSIONS

It would take several weeks of uninterrupted study of files to write a
really comprehensive security review of GERENDE's operations and activities,
However, based on the facts contained in this paper, it ts the Station's opintoa
that GERENDE probably ta not now known to the local police ageacics as a
KUBARK or F3PRIME agent, It ts belteved that GERENDE could be tdenttfled
by the local police agencies at any time they choose to interrogate LIPSTICKS=12
and 30 in detail or when one of the other agent assets formerly or currently
agsoctated witli GERENDE ts compromised, Furthermore, if GERENDE ta
arrested, he could compromise most of the Station's support assets, plus the
BGMORNING and Cuban Exiles portions of LIFEAT,

Gtvea several months time, the slow process of compartmentarian
can be introduced tnto GERENDE's operations, Such compartmentation, however,
will never reach the truly desirable point, bur some improvement over the
exiting situation can be made, if GERENDE can emerge basically unscathed
from the current incidents, then KUBARK will have an extremely valuable
long-range support asset.

Quinton N, OUSLER
21 October 1958



1400000

“ARET ORGANIZATIONAL “CHART OF
7 Sean MOWD “H. CERENDE'S
. ACTIVITLE S

[eeei} ——- [eenevoe

TRA SIA PIAS L, <
DeEvCM SP “
LIPE row e AO

. :
. mae ee ~~
4 Neon comet ad mond LIceon - =) 1 |

PATER I Z iS
? aeeurArEe*
mye _

“eh [erivare, | LIMITED — [Frere Tivos. z j [Zevesser |
CO asetr et [Aare 7 3

; 7 Les eee 2! O%SeG*
Lease ns a ~N Les fo ders rete ay biersens +
NE tae seryp ede Neer ae y ersewsen - 78,
. x Ry
— n : Ni
~™. ~\ nl Ww
mS : \ ! yf
.. s
. \ 3
. a . ¥
~™ ‘
~ _ . ,
~ ~
x
se _ ,
~ s
~ .
~ .
~ S. . 1
. ~~ XN 1
ete ~. .
sp bet, Wg SE

or re ee pe
ome cere ner MNORUEERT:

ati iia Baas

a



ven eRe meen meant nme =

—_

sl owegpey 7

Le Heaters cre clined tee arrest of LISSTICN-A7, the gudsequmt arrests of
Yo le and BW, tueir invermgution by the Mexican Gecret Sarvios and thar

wah rAleese (ras priewn, Keferencue truly portrayed tas incide.. with the
Cod alng exceptions:

e. None of the arrested men wee tortared.
UL. LUPSTICH-SS wae never arreated.
a, Only TTCTIK 12, 3 aad 47 vere arrested,

4. LIFSTICK-29 was cot taken from hie hone by force.. In fact be
vaa never arrested.

2, Wale aster detention tha arrested een tald the stary as ft oppeare in
Ateucn@ert A viiet vee writieu hy LIPBPICK-3), It ie not baliieves that the acu
A mnytaing more teawime:

oa ubetenne of the etury vas tald to Biatton Marten (Aenttaatty
e tare (3) per ate ant cerurteented ennss, dot. frou the arrestat men, from
the attorney, ani trem tne vansalor of Canadien misasy,didney

v,  Earh opevation mntionnd du Attachment A, vtich vas susceptible
1. Roodeik by the Secret Service, vas investigated by thes. Bowever, no operation’
‘ot mentions’ Ln Avtactment A var Lnvestignted by the Secret Rervise. |

¢. LUPFTICE-47, wie bet only teen vith the tere abert on ond a helt
writin mA who aid most of tething, aid not knew any intormmtion other than
tant ip Attactzent A.

4, LIPSTICK-12 ani P, vho nev cousiderubiy mare sboxt our operations,
are both mete of sterner stuff than LIPSTICE-'7 od heve keener ainds.

e, The “ring of trath” that Altecheent A has. It io not believed that
tne saeret Services 1s sufficiently sopaietiosted to exccovt such a delisrable story.

f, The combined opinion of every Cave Officer vho hes kbowm LIPSNS-12
ard 3) that they 416 not reveal any informtion — then that contained in Attach-
pent Ac

B+ On 10 duly 1952 LIPSTICK-12 snd 3) were exrained by

ICFUTIER. vas satisfied ttat the rezalts of 6 cxaninaticn
erpletely earorated LIPSTICK-12 sad 30 fron my eooperasica with the kexiesn
Police. The resulte of those teste ara attacked as Attaciment B.

3. In ord«r to assess whet pooaible dansge might Bave been done to Station
vextcole opersticns if the arrested mun bad told the Secret Service eyerytiing
"rey Noes, Ubere follows a Liat of those ojerations nova to the arrested men:

a LYPPTITK-AT 14 oot tow anything more then he tala the Secret .
“mrvice ag outlined in Attechacat A.

ca RDoR snes Lint a Sa



ae

be caine ed ati olan ste edata adn tama

La RN td Is em

Es
— ome

be LEFSTIR-12;

(1) We was recreated by Lpreriar-evr ne he works :
atin Yerioo byt tna pot Laov it whet cegactty LDUYATION i :
vyade i

(2) Be knows that LIGUSTON, LITTATION-5 ard LIMDTASTON-6
vert for Staton Mexia, but dvea agt hoo in vat erpeciites they. work.

(3) He karma tte tris

Kayoond 8. GEONDR,

(4) Be knove’ all of the detalles of the FURARIC 9 and 2559
operations.

ae

(5) He participsted in the rasa on Alfreds Ounrra Bagea!
qartoent, . 7

(€) Be known of LIMITICK Car 7% (pinto tevzi),

(7) fle knows el. of the preeent LIPSHICH sacred nence toon
aca LIFSTIC:-7 end ik wis vasa to be with the tesa,

(8) Through surveillance, he move of tho follovizg eprrutionst

LIAR
TAG
TLAKIOM

LIVESTOCK 3
LABSTOCK=L , i
Surveillance cf various officials af the Partico Cm
Suveilisove of verious Soviet officials. Eo probatly
of the LIMITS base eince this base dispitaned tha inlio cere om eute
veillance of Goviat officials.
roienaiac aaa! Rodrigues - eS eee

@. LIPBTICK-:

works for Station Mexico but dows rot Snow in what copectiy.~

——

(3) He pertietpeted tn the rebd ca thé epertit of autres 4
Querra Borges. pint adidas

(hy He knove of tbe LIGEICE f4 vente (paste truck).



(5) He knees ull of the present LOPSTIOR toca enh LIPETCH 12

and 15, - fae
x

(8) Pg ere, as La a the ein
lleted in the exse of LLPYTICER.

b, At the preseat tinw the LIPSTICK tes ie ingqecetive. The tom meters
are wording at their various cover jobe end writing a critique ca the surveillance
teanniques they used which cecswl these turse ty be srrestedi

Katthenr S. DIKGLEY hae stopped all ernaitive caatesta oud turced thea
over te exinton NR. GUSLER of © precanulocry Renee abauld WIRULET be under
survedilents. LLNGLEY onniinuss to ees LIPSTECK-30 vino ace eiuinistera tho
en, cot DINILEY alow contiques te be the cane oFFiser for LEVEIPOU.

LIPSTICK="7 hee been Mred and tha Lxpaytcx ofg{ers bure been vassted

aud the furniture etered in a publie warssouss, With Un cmbleat caqperation
Wilfred G. GAEk was aanguled ewe of aaa

5. Puture planning for the LIPGTICE tcca widh aepah ups the res whee of
operational teste asd edfiticnal
of the team and tne remuits obtained,

has agreed to protest tha

reap™i y tar icas for the waa of gahO.0) u,s
has leo prasieed to igsus the tas orefentiole fren the Ssnet Gervies, oF oGze
“other official Snvertigative grow, after the prasidavifel inwzeretion in Boren

ber of 1958. ‘The txture of the LUGPLCK wor will depend ngou the folleriag Peatore

4. It ts not belieret
dugroeted, thet the teas repost
leads, susceptible of checking, vill be girm to the Lareties pain termine:
Sf they ere being reported to ths Bocret scrvice).- _, ‘i

bs SS r—Lr—“‘“=EENCS

ec. Effectiveness of| protestioaz., fe

Te Stotion Hexion reoumeade that the LIVGIIGK tean te cllovel to eoatime
operations for a period of thres magthe a: voich tise « xeagossmacat will be mode

based upon tbe evidence semunalated over that periad of tine. Tho reasseencant
VitL be concerned aalnly vith whether or not the tem ie relly wer the control

leo sioner esa tp kd “peustretion” of the
Secret Service. ial

J
4
i
4



i
i

6 Kovenber 1958

MEAOUOUN FOR: 9 WH/ITI/Mexico
SULJECTs Paymond H, GEZENDE
REPERLECZ: EO~10368

1, This dispatch represents the type of operational reporting
Woe nood, I think any answer to the Station should off with an :
expression of appreciation for'a good job, ‘ Mayte it wil)”eficourage’ ~*~”
thea to write more of this type.

ucc@e;,QERENDE 1s. very exposed, and. should be taken off sone of his @ite.we-e3253¢%)
Jobe at onca, Specifically, my ideas are as follows:

3. Re para. 3 a, agent is very capable and should be retained
Af socure means can be found, Getting rid of hin vould not solve the
Problea, As long as he is in Mexico he 4s vulneratle, Some thought
should Le given to how ha would be supported in the event of arrest.
Personally, I believe the Station would do better to sacrifice a case :
officer than permit things to crag on to the point where GEREWDS might
tell all to the police,

Recommendations: .

&@, GERENDE be briefed so as to be ever ready with an innocucus
story to tell the police in the event of arrest,

b. GERBNDE be told to contact one of already blown Station
officers like HAZLSTT in the event of arrest cod that the Station
officer be ready to appear personally at police station to free
GEFENDE, If the case officer naned for this ¢:ty and GEPANDE
both know the innocuous cover story, there should be little probles,
Ihave done it myself, A good covar story is "looking for draft
dodgers” or some such tale which does not have implications of i

working against Mexican citizens,

ce, That if not allowed to communicate directly OERENDE should i
tell the senior officer present at police station that he vorks
on (cover story) jor HAZLETT and insists HAZLETT be sent for, t

d, That a second blown case officer's name be given as an
alternate for HAZISTT, who is often out of toun and unavailable,

i



@, ‘That GERENDE be taken off LIFZAT at once and all
suspicious audio equipment be renoved fron his hone or offices.
At present, LIFZAT is the enly illegal activity being engaged
in by GERENDE; if he is made merely in connection with his
physical surveillance activities he is not likely to be hurt
by the Hexicans,

f. Concur preparations should be made to hide out GEREXDE
if it is known he is to be arrested,

, Re para, la, GERENDE's participation in LDOTED is 0, Ky
I believe no law is being broken, However, LIMITED is probably blown
to the Soviets, Hemis the more real danger, Station should find out
who is the registered omer of the phone at LIMIT=D. Prior to leaving
Mexico I noted to) at was still held in the name of LIMSTONE-3
(now fired and hence a possible threat).

5. Re para, 4 bs ‘This is the same situation as LIMITED but not
80 likely blawm to the Soviets, There is no reason why GERENDZ should
not continue this work,

6, Re para, hc, LICALLA is a very special problem and should
be taken up at once with Headquarters elements working on LIGSA/LIMUST.
I thought LICALLA had been cancelled out when LDGSA began to shapa ups
I consider 4t a danger to LIMESA, Has LICALLA produced anything of
value? I think we could vacate-this in such a way that the agents in
LICALLA would have no cause to ba suspicious, (Put an obvious tail on
the agent, scare him off, ete, This would throw off the Mexican polica,
too, in the event they are alresdy Wise to LICALLA through LIPSTICK L7.
We could pretend to believe the Soviets ran the.tail and the.gane is up.)

Recommendation: Get rid of LICALLA unless very productive, Better
do this before the remodeling begins.

7. Re para  d, photo truck, LIPSTICK-2 does know of the locations
Of same of the baschouses on LIFEAT since he was a line inspector,

Recoamendations:

a. New compartmented truck should be set up. Don't use false
names and addresses, It could result in great harm,

b. LIPSTICK-2 be sent off to some small town as “resident
agent" for general work and to get him out of the area,

SEGRET



8, Re para, i T have no particclar thoughts on LIJEPS2Y bot
think it consistent for GERENDE to handle it,

H 9. Re para. h f: GZRENDE should be taken off LIPZiT at once,
even if it rears losing lines, As of March this year the Station
bad enough agent persorrel to handle bases for 24 lines, They stould
be able to fill the gap even though LDESTON=.3 and bis tribe were
fired, Only 12 lires are nw being hantled (latest report). ‘The way
: CERENDE is handling his LIFEAT work seens to Le breacing all the rales
wo set up inssven years of experience.

10. Re para. bg, LICOLA75" I see no harn “in GER2DE
i the operational aspect of this casa
police could get bace to LIMITATICN and the nain Lix
if thoy vere able to make GEREKDS afore wo-conla-save- hing
{ss + +> danger to LINTTATIOY was not brought out in the Station's survey.

1a, In re para. 5, recommendations -
a. Approve.
b. Set hin off LIFEAT right now.
¢, Concur, but liquidate LICALLA,

{ da. This needs some discussion, What do we do with GEREXOB
in the U, S.?7

e, Concur.
! f, Concur with reservation noted above,
& 0. Ke

h. I don't see why he can't handle all these jobs since
they are physical surveillances,

4, Wot a dad idea,
22, Final observations: :
a, What 4s GERENBE!s cover? :

be We mst be sure he is not overworked. Slorpy work has
resulted from people being overworked,

eatl can

wWH/FI

peepee ne anes eee

rr



"Fon xo. 51-29

~ eee

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

vA : DISPATCH HO. tistqeseGQ—§
Coes Ba or Sua Pouch
7012119523

TO 4 Ohtef of Station, Rextoo city CS ae ee |

mom 4 Chief, #1

GEMRAL = Sverational
summer | remo = hayaond He C:APEDE

ACTION WE YETI: Gign end Return Contract Extension

Attached are original and two co:les of an extefzibn of Subjectts
contract to be olmead and witnessed ani roturngd el

3 = Mexico City, w/atts.
2 = Wi/eLL roca
1 - Wi/IT1/cnreno,

RI

19 Decenber 197

Attachment.

3, a atated above

Dietribution:
2

"Ls Subject

WH/ITT/Mexico/ISube: jek

“J.C. KING, CHIEP, ¥



- Dl -uncussirigo oe tte (CO conrincntiat Catena

KOUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (om-eneh

dees

FROM:

Contract Personnel Division Bale
Room 301 1016 16th St. 10 December 1957
JO: (Ofer dengrotos, room avatar, ond

building) onncers | COmmENTS (neeber each comment te cise fhe chee
INITIALS | S@ bon. Drew © Gee ecreis colune wher ech comment

| FI/OPS/Projects ie : The original of this contract was
1709 L Bidg. Zt prepared in headquarters and
: forwarded to the field for their

execution and retention. This
amendment should follow the same
procedure. Please*let-CPD kriow

when subject has signed his

extension 0 a copy of this docu-
t He fa i ment-can be forwarded.to:Finance§ia}t° * «

: Division for their records.

* WH Division
1405 Barton Hall

| Pokey 610"tamion” (]SEoneP — (Jeonrenrian (] GARTEN [7] uncuassiFien



OFFICIAL DISPATCH ~

pintaoeiy 5 ¢ Sdebisvunsassssasesesy .
A are DISPATCH NO. 22 36405626 ——
201-21 3523
GEC3 rot
TO 4 chief of Statin:, Mexteo city DATE

rooms Chief, «1

GENERAL = Sperational

SUBIENT
[eine te

1, Effective 1 October 1957, the oonttai ama
effective 1 “etober 1355, 16 extended for &
yoarts °

ae ea

2, All other terns 771 canditlons of axenied) renaia
in fall foree ani effect.

26 Novenber 1957

Pistribution:
3+ Mexico city



2 He 13
LIPS the Liuassere Ya A fee stv I «Abe S77.
/ S| 27 fir 7

ee apiece ote rang et apie pn Breed traced
LIOENDS end 19 respmtble’ far LIPSTICK office meder = CREE SpeVLOGD = “ahi is
tie Ware Os LL heey v pewoesees tar fa fra: ik feb, LIA,
LYLYle bi swede Cli. diets the coulvities of ths LI surveil :
tom (6 exurcte project dlsownsed im en). UB La ol reaposibic 7
Tor the ectivitics of tho ficai novediluce beohauss, LILMUC. H

(1) Litre da © second story atau. vich offords 8 view
into 128 right ala of the in gete ef the Li nstclliias
| Lb in ange pistogreras Cron ti te: of the hes donor

‘The cyiijeanct is to aoe os ict used La 6200 and LICALA and

the fila 4s procoased ia tha aca Wy. LIFLSIY-12 Lyoe in tis
spurtowrt ad is sejancible far tha wtotogcsite umd ;tyuied
Barvreillancs. wa repurts uy lemmt tut do pas dalicite those

wuldttad by tha Lito Lewciowe. uo lotoge jks sro LLCS

He superior in gay, sy te tiove obtiacd fra oitusr Li oD or

LIGA. Lj oY-12 ie om ecticlest ctanyar ae und cook /

ALD, tale bios offers & better pooitiaa tras weich

t
bat

used to chess Leola frau other omitions, Doing dime coi July od
196f lI received ercining et Soudc.stors und bow be cai
tho Cese Officer foal this trviming bus boon wost bexeficiol.



a

yo

o—" emros eagae rei’

ALp Pous.. 2H-A-BTOO
Cxfef, Ws Division 19 Bovmber 1957
Cuisf of Station, Mcxleo Cliy

OparationaL

(ESTEE ee beak) EE

Refrcnca ee-5S2

"Hone

EN Tae CER te TEAS

1. ‘Juere is attached for Luodquarters retcation a trunslition
of u report conc:rning the Subjcet. ins original report wus obtained
through @ privete dutcotive agency in Hxteo City v.dex bd bn
contectad by Rayuoot in. Gat,  GuliDS poosu ca & businverEn

wwkinr, ercdit and character ¥ om the cor. vcinl fir of
a Lesigascat

for tic dstuvilve eguncy in order tint Géation H-aico could cosces
tic Ioveetigative oes-ts of thy nguncy for possible future opcritionsl
emlaitition.

2. Tao sub-source of iA-L021,
Imovs tho Subject peroomally. The Case Officer will sontect hia
@ircct for additional information ou the Subject and his activities.

Wille Ce Curtis

.
Saale

MSD/det
35 Hor 57

Distribution
3 - 148 x; otehet
& - Files

Pe SECRET Li psntic/re

S



vere!

Hq
e
5

SECKET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Finance Division

FROM: Contract Fersonnel Divis:on
SUBJECT: Contract Extension for Reymond H. Gerende

1. Effective 2 October 1957 _, the contract (as amended) for
the subject individual, effective 1 October 1955 » is extended for
8 period of two (2) years :

2." AN other terms and conditions of the contract (as amendud)

seaagihargn ta. coupe

remain in full force and effect.

cin FENE Ta gsi o e

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

BY.
Contracting Olficer

APPROVED:

ee ee

SECRET


OFFICIAL DISPATCH

. ate 26d
VW _AR ore DISPATCH KO.
201119523
ee
TOs Chief of Station, Kexioo City part | Dor S/_i 1 3¢_—__

FROM 4 Chiof, ¥iD

i GENERAL. Operational Gene
SPECIIC 6. Rayocnd Hy GRENDE

{uc -eoneaGgiThe folloving is the ovalnation of Raymond M, GERLEDE written ty the instrastar® “oF Se
of foreign trainees cn 12 September 1957,

1. Instruction ecanenced 10 June end wae ocac
covered tratecreft, cbservation, aexrirtion, fl edd rerortin:, principles
ef CB and CI, elicitaticn and intervieviag,
briefings in photo ani uss of recording pac:

2. ‘Trainee was Know as "Ray*, th, fe ves
alvays plosaant, ccurteous, cheer ul c(eminelyMaterested in every
phase of the training, He esa spoaé ‘ite Englioh vithout eng
difficulty,

3. Ray coemed woll vot,

fena than Fexiean, He
posssszes a streng intere

» Ho ig en avid reader, fe
lecrned from reading aad

study, i seemed possess: althouga tier vas a linited oppore

4e -While Reg intly heve not riven hin a wide
9 Q Se netivity, ho evened to presp tre materiel
n the fieli cf CI and Ci he etated he hed sever
thought of mary as acplying to hiz, he seamed glad of tas
Bern Azgerbed tam cuite readily, ile now possesz03 @
dca Jarental prineiples involved, Hcvewer, it ie
felt that if be primarily in tais field, it sienld be under tre
supervisicn of @ case cfficer with cecneideraple experience sad background
i in tais type of activity,

t 5. As previously iniicated, Ruy 1us en avii reader, In ediiticn to
i . py, Geren Case studies, he rexd the following beckes vate “

Taleaang oad Cardnary Sat Wsieanaatng Bion

fees 5129



“dan feok for $.fea®
reb*

"Tao
“Cat oF

tontage®

“tenten Calling Nerth Pole®
S Sy tas Xe irlenda®

The folloving fiine vere exhitited ant critiqued: ¢

“ud “eareh®
*Sarvoiliance®

“body Soares*

G. Th de fit baat cor
fastiuctiong +e feel
@landestina activi

25 September 1957

Distributions
3 - Mextoo City
1 - Wi/Matlroce
1 = WYIIT/Crrono

ve RT

21 = Subject, 4

WH/IIT/Mext00/t

omjn

“Under Cover®.

wader stan ting
f have Been tb: ‘and ‘strensthoned,
entwalawe and re tuctice should reflect tiis in nig fulure vcrk.

Vedra
Hag

ntef , MED

Based ons CT/0S/TR memo, 12 September 1957

12H BRS 22 3
rage Tyo

\

Pongo OuaseaCg AR OURK ceA E

ee cia ae



fubel

23 Soptenter 1957

MEMORARAK PURt Contract Fareonnel Division

va 1 FI/idS = Frojects Branch H
SULIT 4 Reynond H, C2x%-£ (pe)

: 1, It is rapuected trot tre tvo-yoar ecntrad!
{ oo > Gknming, (L1FSTICK-20) ; vaiob wis “executed” oa" 19!
extended for « two yoor period, offactive 1 October 1957.

2, Reymond #, CXAMDE's principal duties are odninistretion
end operational dimetion of tre il) STICK tev, processing fila,
ecatacting egonts and acting ss out~out for the Case Officer,
conducting individual investigations, end kantiing oash edvasone, i
socountings end sroperty. :

2. 0, REG
Chief, «iD



1
emcee oa oe ~ peed m~

Office Memorandum + vnvrep states GOVERNMENT

To + Chief, WH/3 DATE: 12 September 1957
ATTN «6 Kr, Larry Sule

yroM = Instructor, Foreign 7raincos

sunject: Evaluation of trainee in Special Project LIPSTICK

1. Instruction is this project commenced 10 June and was
concluded 12 July 1957. It covered tradecraft, observation,
description, casing amt reporting, principles of CEI, elicitation
and interviewing, investigative techniques, and TSS briefings in
Photo and the use of recording machinese

a Ac centeneton
bat .

| 2. Trainee was knowm as "Ray". He was easy to work with.
Ba was alvays pleasant, courteous, cheerful and eeemed gen artepouse
interested in every phase of the training. ~He.can.epeak;” read ana =e EF
write Engliah without my difficulty.

i 3. Ray sooned well motivated} more Pro-inerican than Vexican.
Se posseees & strong izterest in clandestine work. He is an avid

| reader, He demonstrated ability to apply principles he had leamed

i from reading ani study, He scored possessed of initiativa although

i there was a limited opportunity of observing this quality in action.

: Ll. While Pay's duties to date apparently have not given hima

i wide and varied experience in clandestine activity, he seened to

i grasp the material quite readily; and although in the field of

: CIE he siated ho had never thought of many of their aspects as

i applying to hia, he seemed glad of the opportunity to leam and

: absorbed then quite reatily. He now possesses a good working
Imovledge of fundamental principles involved. However, it is felt

that 4f he 4s to work primarily in this field, it should be under

the supervision of a case officer with considerable experience and

background in this type af activity.

‘ 5. As previously indicated, Ray was an avid reader. In addi-
i tion to certain case stulies, be read the following books:

"Handbook for Spies*

"Tho Spy web*

"Out of Bondage"

"London Calling North Pole®
"A Spy Has No Friends"

SECRET 2

i
t
i
H
H
: Sa wet Mein apes HCAS ae nn une RE EA RSENS AMMAR rd

=



The following films were exhibited and critiqued:

"House Search®
*Surveillance®

"ody Search®
“Under Cover®

6. Tt 4s felt that Pay benefitted considerably from this
course of instraction. We feel that his concept and understand=
dng of principles of clandestine activity have been broadened
and strengthened. Ris interest, enthusiasm and production should
reflect this in his future work.

OSCAR H. SELLS

t . ae tt ee aes ERER S88 FL PEE

:

.

'
t foo ete
i
‘ PonacT
F ScUNTS
Necesiects Ap aren ERR aa eaten ee ice estthlaealer a nn Un RC Aare taeramaamrmanaaame OE



ace

‘ mein
‘ " Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

To + Chief, WH Division pare: 8 AUG 1957
Attention 5 Mr, Lawrence f, Sule, WH/III/Mexico |
Rooa 2114 zarton Hall
FROM + Deputy Director of Security (investigations and Support)

supyecr; COVERT SITE

1. Reference is made to your request (Requisition 'o0157=-51)
toe we capes on hOF, 8! ebouse facilities, further reference-is made. to your subs.ceriwi<:
[> +: ne co geagent’ request that a survey be scheduled of the Subject covert
i site and that you be advised of the results thereof,

y 2. It is the understanding of this office that the Subject
covert site was utilized for the training end housing of <n agent
of interest to your office in connection with Project LIPSTICK. It
is further understood that motion pictures would be used as part of

the training p site. The Subject apartment was leased
in the nane of leared attorney.

3. This confirms previous verbal advice that a security survey
was conducted at the Subject preniscs with favorable results, You
were previously advised of security approval for the use of the Sub=
ject premises for the above purposes.

4, In view of the fact that you have completed your use of the
Subject covert site, copies of the report of the survey of tho site
are being retained in this office. Safehouse Rranch and the Central
Cover Branch are being advised of the confirmation of the security
epproval for the use of the site by copies of this menorandun.

FOR THE DIRGCTOR OF SECURITY:

1.4 4-

Robert H. Cunningham 5

ec: 6hief, Safehouse Branch =
Central Cover Branch



OFFICIAL DISPATCH .

he PISPATCH HO. 79730)
201119523

cr) ey Ae Uy eco

4 Chief of Station, ‘lexieo City
+ Chief, “HD

sunmcr { a Operatiocal /LIv. 11K
to Operatiowal/LIr. 11K
bccrrtenta tt He GIDE

Reforencor K! 44584, 21 Yay 1957.

1, Subject departed from Yashington,D.C. on-13*
7 = =~ pelatives th SSuth Carolina prior to rotumtar
five works truining on 12 duly = an ovely tion

Anstr.ctors will be forveried dn tie wv

Vexico, tie coupleted
the Subject by his

2, ‘Subsect we advanced tum woeks per J
Station. Since his lodeines wo!
fo pay in car eter et the rat
extovwiod to cover four vacks

3. The net scount of Subsy waa not known at tine of
fubject's dererture. /* Mbpjeet's receint in the azount
of £1.29 to cover t¥s it by hia to the telephone
Coanary, f2ue of th y be retumed to ubject
whereupon he should he for the net emcunt of the telephone

ae ed

,
. Ce
Chief,
25 daly 19
Distribution:
3 ~ Mexico City
1 = WH/ Mailroom
i - W/I1I/Chrono yn) ‘s
~ Subject TH Mexico Sulesrms
BE,
ABE mi nan oa Uaiecteatang oad
J.C. KIGG, CHIEF, Soa Vofey nr
Baits 51-29 i QWr-NF S23

+


“odin Hexieo City on 6 May 1957."

via: Air Pouch ___ DISPATCH NO. HMM A= Th27_

Yo  : Chief, WH Division i oaTE: _12 Judy 1957 ——__
FROM : Chief of Station, Mexiso City
SUBJECT: cee Operational

seccire— Remon ALVAREZ Durent
Reference: HMM-W-8554
ACTION REQUESTED: Hone

os viedce.,

Atteched for Headquarters retention are tvo copies of the subject's
Vise epplicatica obtained fron ted knbi

MSD/bet
2a duly 1957
Distribution

3 - Hge v/atchat
2- Files

ditises 51-28A

in



(5-6 S02

en eve tense eedir rere lor i, U,

(S Mayo

4m ecore ve e vér Jer? (tren, evion, coche, errtoal:
AVION

rer “onte entrerfé 0 nrirar cunt? cre tocerf de

5.- Fronte
loe EL, U,

MIAME

6,- Direesion eirete y cernlete en dont> ce Ye rvetn Loerlizer
en lor B. v.

3135 yale uve. —_—

Lolumbia SiG

te31





pom er nr ae

lic a a i ath
tows Mane Given eat mania
+ eaa

nl nteg wren
enon Soot

TAG
treetieca # OF, hexteh i.
eR ETS ate a

ta weroline

rs ol nears relating ip home comey
me we alverez

i" Sea manirar states

1 mae sot

21 Hage i Toa

23 DATE Ano P1ACt OF AbulisiOnt
'$, 10. OF SERIES BY IMMUGEA.
How orc

FORM 1S-257e 91-52 me)



Sats!

HAL paymond te. ie PSOE FE ue em
SUE-ECT_____ Audio Briefing.
DATOS TRALEE Jay 1987__(1330hours)

On 3 July 1957 an Audio Briefing was given to Raynond H. GEREDS.
The major portion of the briefing was on the Revere T-700 tape recorder.
When asked if he knew anything about recorders, Q2RZNPE stated that he
was quite familiar with the hevere 1-700 as he had had 80: rience with
this recorder when he was a disc jockey in a radio‘ station: tap by
step o eration of thermcorier was ex lained to hin, the tape recorder head
was explained also how the sound was recorded on the tape. The following
.were also explained to hiss tape, speeda,. frequency, responses, footage... 7
indicator, dual tracks—how they can té used inthe Revere T~7 i:
mechanical section of the recorder and the anplifiers

The recorder was rezoree from the case by the Subject and the
possible brcaxcown pointe were shom to his, the recorcer and saplifier
unite wore taken out of the case by hin aod the operation of the sections
explained. Ths recorder was then put torsether ty GEFEN E.

QEREWE asked many queetiona relative to micro hones and :erochone 1
stallations. There were explained to hin-carbon nicropiore, crystal
microphona, ¢ynazic ani controlled reluctance.

He appeared to be intelliscnt ant xcs interested tn the subjects
discussed.

DDWARP A. SIVIK
. TSS/iRD/Instructor

et
Plesza retum<eeseopias of this fora te TSS, 2D for overt cietritutica.
Flasce returm 4e<7ecpies of this form to T:S/TL for covert distributica:

QUENT DISTRIETG ISN: CoraRT DISTREETT fet

2 ~ Sealer staff Training Officer 1 = Operations Utficer ‘

] = Divistea Training Liaison Offteer 1 ~ TSs/1D :

1 = CIR/Reghetrs: 1 = Senior Staff :

1 = Office of Parscanel Sane in

2-7 LD FA. Jail
SECRET es :

Le pie bees as demeamtnnnenrnee atte tment nema



= ~
NaMe,,_ Baysond Me GERENDE sys sc BH

SUSJECT___Photography Briefing
DATES THALED__} July = 0930-1230

On 3 daly 1957 @ Photography briefing was given to Rayzond He
i Er. GERENDE was briefed on film processing, printing, télephoto lens,
fixed and m>:1le murvelllance. ‘ie vas shown the following equip-ents
Leica, Hxacta, Wikroae, “inox and kobot cazeras, the hidden device for

: lanted thres/noure, 100, fe, tank and Mikor, Multinle tanke,;The,briefing: <<

of this fora to TSS/TD for overt distribution.
Flease retura tradecpies of this forn to TSS7D for covert distritution,

COVERT DISTRIBUTION:

Fleese r=tire fencicz

i E

| = Sealor S-a!f Training Officer 1 = Operations Cfficor
! 1 Divis!cn Training Lisisoa Officer d= Ts8D

i 2 = OtR/Registrar i 1 Seator state

l= Office ef Ferscanel
PT SSL FA



11 June 1957 1

MEMORANLUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT) Raymond B. GEREN (pe) Training

1, At 1000 © 1030 hours, 1 June 1557, I net with K
Melberr, Chief Instructor, 0:2/Covert iraining
—_ [athe office of tre Bells; C/covert

.

2. Subject's training was discussed, Mr. Sells will take ne

te Bubsect's apartment (eafexozse) at 0950 june to be
intromiced to Subject, He will be knovn ae t
Ur, Pelberg (to be known as ) end wid

arrive to take over training.

At 1100 hours, 7 June 1957, I telked by telephone to| ]
(eafehouss procurement officer), He informed re that a
‘or four veeks rent hed been sent te the opartmant firm
office to cover the cost of the epartment
(safehouse}.

1, SOLC
W/L Mexico/-T :

Dietribetion:
Wi/117 /Chrono
vBubject

eae:



SECRET.

4 June 1957

MENC.ANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: LIPSTICK
t Raymond i, C:RENDE

: 1, On 28 May 3 (Safehouso Procuresent
Officar, %8185), ) ani the untersi¢ned met.
to obtain a safe case for

{ av nn@btained was:the folloving’

2._Thie apertrent was tentatively approved orally
from a spurte stanipcint, Registration vas made
f

by me in the name of ttorney,
[ GiRENDE will be ostensibly a
legal client and vill be registered in true name upon
his arrival, | texe waa ort riven upon obtaining the apartzent ;
1 nor was mine, Only was used. E
that of
8

cleared this cover ]
according jwias pay tor une aparument vy cxecks
.

4,_ The apartment vas rented et the rate of $155 a mcnth i
from 8 June 1957 omard (to be throurh 13 July 1957).

(s8/2, X547 and 13071) infcreed me i
tolepicniealiy on 31 May that the safehouse site had been approved.

: i
Cae pars :
cn ee

Tetonee B, Sule at : !

gue {

lt

= SECRET. AAR ce

oa see cache rine

7 BRR eines ae . -
t :



errno roms a,

ait Office Memorandum + oniten states GOVERNMENT

: ros Chief, Wz-3 pare: 23 Hay 1957
ATTY 1 Hr. Larry Sule

i rrom : Instructor, Foreign Trainees

susyact: Special Project LIPSII&K

A. Tne following outlines the Special Project Trainicg Flan for
Special Project LIPSTICK:

7 1. Originator: WH-3 Mexico

2. Approvals: C/WHy C/Wi-3, FI/TRO; CI start
Case Officers Mr. Larry Sule, ext. 2555

Sis
 Qtot Instroctor, Of: Mr. saci

Purpose: To provide instruction eni training which will
i assist trainee in carrying out field objectives
H of obtaining CE and opersrational inforration

| thru surveillance and otter seans, working

: against designated tarcets,

i 6. Clearances: Project was approved 2 Novender 1956. OA
' amended approval, d-ted 19 Kareh 1556.
Trainee is a contract azent.

7. Barber of Trainees: One
8, Kationality: Mexican (formerly U.8. citizen)

9. Biographical Datat Trainee was bom 7 Dec. 1933, New
"York City. He received his education at
the American High School, Mexico, D.Fey

Mexico City College, B.A. in Latin
American studies, June, 1955. He

speaks English and Spanish.

H He bas received no formalized intelligence
training, but sone on the job training
has been given,

10, Covers Tourist

RS: ak ct AARP crane = caren cate TE NA Ie SOR A ey eR RA RA A



li, Tine Teble: Instruction will comence 10 June and
be completed on or about 13 July 1957.

12. Training Area: Training will taxe place in the
Washington area in a safehouse secured
by the Division.

13. Language of Instruction: English

Uy. Course of leetruction: See Appendix I

15. Finances: Financial expenses will be handled by the

Division.

B. Copies of this memorandum are being distributed as follows:

Original endl - Chief, WH} fpeepenupas anaes a :
ceseine Attar’ Me, Latzy Sure es ee iliac

1+ CZ Start
Deny ble

1 = ac/0S/TR; C/03/TR
1 + Covert Files



20 June

1-2. June

APPENDIX I
PROJECT LIPSTICK
SCHEDULE 67 INSTRUCTION
Security Briefing. Discussion of the program. Review of
Intelligence terminology.
Tradecraft
(1) ature anc Characteristics of Clandestine Activity
Clandestine Activity of the Individual and the Group
Clandestine Activity of the Sovereign State
Relationship of Ovart to Clandestine Activity
Elements of Clandestire Activity
(2) The Nature of Clandestine Action (By Political Entities)

(3), Beinetph of Organization, for Clandestine Activity’
Con

cepts of Compartmentation

(4) Concepts of Cover and Concealment
Requiresents of Cover
The Cover Problem as Applied to Individuals, Groups

(5) Basie Obstacles to Clandestine Activity
Active Opposition
Administrative and National Boundaries as a means of
Compartnentation

(6) Clandestine Communications

Introduction and Concerts of Clandestine Cossmmications

Criteria for Clandestine Commmications

Yethods of Clandestine Communications

Principles in the Use of Codes, Secret Writing,
Microphotography and Ciphers

Cutout Devices: Accormodation Address, Drops, The Courier,
The Intermediary or Cutout

The Personal Meeting :

Signals

The Safehouse

(7) Agent Personnel
Introduction
Agents and Their Functions

waster



(8) Spotting
Check and Investizations
Selection of Agents
Recruiting Methods
Training, Briefing, and Debriefing
Handling of Azenti
Tercination of Agents

Special emphasis will be devoted to agent spotting, acquisition
and manageirent.

24-28 June Observation, description, casing, reporting. The latter will
include operational reporting, surveillance reporting, CE type
reports and principles of sitive bepcaecaniede zeportin

APNE Sted oe.

navn: cise

July “Wisetons, functions, & principles of CE & CI.
3 uly ‘183 briefings, audio & photo
5-9 suy Continustion of CE & CI.

10-11 July Principles, procedures, techniques of elicitation, interviewing.
12 July Seminar on covert investigative techniques.



CLASSIRED MESSAGE

7 495 Es/ou/eo - oy
ema ere ae 4g5| secret
to + DIRECTOR

ee GS 1

_ AeTION: CAH 1-2
i nwo. + COP 3, C/FI/0PS 4-5,.00/s 6, SSA 7, D/or 8, $/6. 9-10

em. MEXL 463

,t0 DIR - Bee.

i RYBAT ADMIN
: REF teaty 4554
{ “ort oat eS BUC RES oe Sea ae TLE icra casted (ee

SUBJECT REF DEPARTS MEX! 9 JUNE 4494 HOURS PAA FLIGHT
592. DEPART HOUSTON EAL FLIGHT 592 ARRIVE WASH 2149 HOURS
9 JUNE, ee =
"END OF HESSAGE

: v

ne
_ al



es

ernae

oily

Chief, WH-3 28 Fay 147
ATTH 1 Mr. Larry Sule

Instructer, Foreign Trainees

Special Project LIrsiicx

A. Tre following outlines the Srecial Project Training Plan for
Special Project [Listivts

1. Origdnstort WH-3 Mexico
2. Approvales C/wH; CAi4-3, PI/PHO; CI Start
3. Case Offtcors Mr. Lary Sule, ext.
oS a Cate SERRE, CRE
Ss. Purpose: To provide instriection ad training wrich will
asatet trainee in carrying vt field objectives
of taining CZ end opererationsl inforracion

thru garveillacce and stir F reare, working
areinet dea!onated tanete.

6. Glesrancest Project vas erproved 2 overber 1556. Ok
asended e;;roval, d:ted 13 Karena 1956.
Trainee is a contract age:t.

7. Murber of Trainces: One
8. Hationality: Mexican (forserly 0.8. citizen)

9. Biographical Data: Trainee was bom 7 Dec. 1933, Kew
“York City. He rece!ved his eduection at

the drerican Hirh Sciool, Mexico, D.P.y
Mexico City Colleze, B.A. in Latin
Arericen studies, Jane, 1955. He
specks English and S-anish.
Be has received no forralized intelligence
training, but some on the job training
has been civen.

10. Tourist

E

Le prt

e —

cs"



i
i : oe
i

ll, Tre Tablet Instriction will cor-ence 19 dime and
{ a be completed en or about 13 duly 1957.

12, Tratning Areat Training will take place in the
Wasit:7t0n area in a safehuuge seczred
b> the Livisicn, .

13. Lanzuare of Instriction: English

i Us. Cozrse of Inrtriction: See Appendix I i

1S. Financest Financial expenses will be randled by the
Division.

B, Copies of this rerorandux are being distributed as follover H

Original ard 1 - Crtef, VH-3 :
Attor Hr, Larry Sule

ences Lo OF Staff. Se PBA AR MAE IOS ra eR
1 = Ac/os/rRy C,

1 = Covert Files

ee

OSCAR H. SELLS

Cee,



i AAPOR A

PROFCT LIPSTICK
STRVLE OF LSPR cr IO

10 dune Security Briefirc, Discussicn of toe program. Review of
Intellipesce terdsology.

U-2. duns Tredecraft
(1) Mature anc Character'st!cs of Clandestine Activity
Clendestine Activity of the Individual ard tas Group
Clandestine Activity of tre Sovereign State
Palationsaip of Ovart to Clandestine Activ:ty
Elenents of Clancestice Activity

(2) Tho Mature of Clandestine Action (By Political Frtities) °

(3) Princitslcs of Orpenteation for Glandestine activity

seen

(u) Concepts of Cover and Conce.:.nent
Raquirererte of Cover
The Cover Froblex as Applied to Indivis:als, Orozps

(5) Basic Obatacles tu Claniestine Activity
Active Oppceition
Adrinistrat‘ve and National Boundaries es a reans of
Cospartre:.tation

|

i

t

H

{

i

i

t

|

:

|

1

|

| (6) Clandestine Conmmications

1 Introduction and Conece;ts of Clantestine Comsmmicatione
Criteria for Clandestine Corrunications
Fethods of Clandestine Cornunications
Principles in the (se of Coes, Secret Sritt-g,

H Fdcrophcterraphy and Ciprere

| Cutout Devices: Aecons-dation Address, Drope, The Courier,

i The Interediary or Cutout

} The Personal resting

1

i

\

Signale
be Safeho-se

(7) Agent Perscnrel
Introduction
Agents and Thoir Functions



1-2 July

“hy”
5-9 duly
10-1 July
12 Jay

(8) Spotting
Crack and Investinations
Selection of Arenta
Eecreiting Retoode
Training, Brief! ts and Debriefing
Randling of é:
Terrization of fear

Spectel exphanis will bo devoted to acs:t epotting, acquisition
and sansgecent.

Observatio., description, carinz, rejo-ting, The latter will
include operational reporting, surveillasce reporting, CE type ...
reporte and principlea of positive intelli-ence reporting.

Missions, functions, & joan of CE

133 ‘briefings, aadi
Continuation of CE & CI.

Principles, procedures, techniques of elicttetion, interviewing.
Sexdner on covert investicative technigzes,

ee OR ea GUE 8 Mer He



x guts

. a as
2 2% TA a Kee 2 Ut
; :

fe ~,
Cheew aT. fo
fe cil

Cea
Z. : , id 3 oy
ae = I usetg

Pa dendee 7 Cr eee. I sea

elites, beg
oe OE Task | he 2 bey),

Phi
f 8 dB By a

det T-36
eTR

g i
a 2s is 245 -100b

be, 4T-109L

‘ts aR

“agers



CLLANbcE wrko LL LOST CE - 14 oo face, ap.
wae PSTICS i) Lam ted Cr) GELENIE ae bits rem
em ae ate
ee PL tet Pea) Dart arenes, ob

ee REN STOCIQ cadens eee tee fe as ect

‘
F _ ~ - = mie -



OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VA Cae KAPOK eee
ZA119523
SECRET
To 4 Chief of Station, Kexiee City DATE
mom 8 Caief, WED PRICSIIX
mor { CXL = Operational Vattere/LIPSTICE
bite ae @ Beyvent #, CABNDS/Treining

References GG-HLL10, 26 Aprid 1957 (201-119523)

, MOTEOW REGIESTED: foe Faragreps 5, crosanenn me saebets Oh +
1, Subject {9 scheduled fer covert trai eTENcstay, 10 June 1957,
and to last five weks, Subject shold a 1» Lf poste

ble, on 8 or 9 duns,

elso be trained ca wokdaya, For fondry ond ‘acidentela he

vill be civen per dien of Ba fant of Subject vill be con
wervatlves .
3e It is sarpested that + &ntion frovide Sadject with e« reunde 4
trip ticzet by sir, + Lgndocint it mirht be wise to have
Subject visit his we th! da Scuth Carolina on the way to
Washington, 8 dcr ote the impression that be ts
Wialtine Ee: fa ictk and Vashingtea ce tals trip.
be Sabjoct's U, S, will be that of tourist,
Se Ploase cab’ re of arrival ani flight mrber, He vill be
ret at the al 4eak operaticns officer, ‘iarry." Is the
evant the neeiing ict maja he should call the telechone monter
forvarded under separate covr and ask for “*Larry." In tho event bo
fe still unable to! wake ceatect he shouli go to the Keticnal Rotel, 1

foe; 51-29

Set eal



KAPG

Seonrr

SEgRET evesss
E-PCK # 500
Pege he

1608 Tye Street, Hy ve, take a rca: and valt for a call, If unsblis te
get @ roca be should leave a fcrwsriing aidress for further contact,

epee

aoe
oT. lye
+ C, KING 5
Cher, wD
Attachrents

1 - As described atove, u/s/e
17 May 1957

Distributions
3 ~ Mexico City, w/att, u/s/e
= WHYTTI/KAPOK Chrono, w/o/att.
es Subject, w/o/att.

WH/TIT/Mexicc/LSule:njm

yh.1.?- bop Sy tz thei

Pp
J.C, KING, rae wep W. CALRAITH, C/WB/IIT

Krag
“SECRET

|


SOE,

17 Yay 1957
HOMCRANDI PIR: Chiat /Wl/sappart
Attar 1/2 & P
SUBST 0 Conhuct Agen’ Covert, Training

Reynont A, G22 (pa)

1, Subject, Frofoct LIPATICE eontreet creat, vill arrive
fin Yoshinztan om epprorimately 27 June 1957 for five voeke of
covert training, Covert training hos besn evrenged end a safe
hous chtatned,

2, The nerter of entertainment of Subject vas discussed
with Hr. Vattles, C/i/surpert, vie mtd that eatertatnaor’ of
G.atrast apoats is cuthoriset wrler curtain easiittons snd that
At would be yemelasible to entertain dublset couservatively
vhile in dacsington, is spoke to of tat General,
Comsil's Offices vio supported this view,

3, To favarebly inoress Subject ani to matotain his morale
while in dagrington, it is comtenrlated thet the desk operstt ag
efffes will eatertais his vitn dimer ani deiaks spproximtely
tvies o wack duriag the first and final voeks end oace a voek
dartag the iaterverin: vecks,



t
f

ky

Fands are avetlables

| Aha

15 Mey 1957

MEMUP AIRY FOR 2 Chief, Safencuse Granch, Office of Logistice

peRWUGH § Calof, Central Cover aranch, 03/P
REMESTING OFFICE & ¥H/TII/texico

CASE OFFIC $ lawrence 3, Sule = Extenaton 2555

Preset e LIPSTIce Alotoents 76357085130

References K 4551025, 25 Juno 1956,

Type ef safehcouse recusetedt Furnished apartment (effictoncy apart~
ment or lercor), ‘The apertaont should be large encuga te snow
Rotion ;ictures te trance,

location and Enviroment: Washingten, D2, C. Middle class or above
type of environment.

Maxis Price Rangos $10 por dave
Cceupancy frona 8 June 1957 Tor 14 July 1957

Intended Uses Safehouse vill be occupies by ons (1) agent for

Pest ‘once ani training. The egeat is o Meaican (corpletely bie
lin-ual in Spanian ani Enrliah, mmo born in tho U, 3,), aved 23, 0
eolloge gretuate ani purchasing agent fcr a Mexico City firm, He
WELL occury the safehonse see ef tho tina, bth iny and aight, for
five veeka, Three er foer ether peraong CTA end poositly tho
ence cfficor) will s:ond tine in the eafehouse during the day, Scnaim
tive male fal will be in the heueo during the day,

Cover Arrangements Subject sill bo in the , S. as & touriet fran
Hesico, ‘eo has American relatives in ierth Cercline, wi Divisico'a
nerorantes requesting troinine for Subject, and vaich incladed this
cover plan, was apprcved by the FI end CI 3taffs on 14 Fay 1957,

erie,

waver cretom SECRET



4
4

rani
Say

f a

i

i WH/TIT /Maxi.co/1BSalc ma

i Distributions

i. Orig. & 1 = Addressee

i 1 ~ cca/n0/P

i 1 - WA/III/Crrono

j V2 = Subject

| !

1

fp

{

‘

i

i

1

1.



DISPATGet NO.

CLASSIFICATION

To : Chief, WH Division pate: __15 Nay 1957
FROM : Chief of Station, liexico City

SUBIETT: cextru— Operational

seecwic— Raymond #. Gerende
keference: 222{-W-4410
ACTION REQUESTED: Contact with Gerende

1. The Subject has made reservations at the Hotel chery, 112 G Street,
H.W., Washington 6, D.C., Zelephone Republic 7-1012, for 9 June 1957. Ne will
vait at this hotel for a telephone call froa Malcolm q. -I=LAND sonetine before
1200 hours on 10 Hay 1957. ‘The Subject will neet LDELAD in the lobby of the -
Statler Hotel at the tire stated in the conversetion, S:ould this contact fail
the Subject will remain at his hotel fron 1300 hours until 1600 hours on 10 May
1957 and the sane tines on succesaive days until contact is made.

2. Station Mexico appreciates the efforts of the ieadquarters desk in

exraaging this training. : :

HSD/bet
15 Mey 1957 :
Distribution

3
2- Files

SECRET



Khpnw
SECRET

201-119523
KAPOK #500
s Chief of Station, Mexico City
t Chief, WHD PRIGRITE

= Operational Matters/LIPSTICK
~ Raymond H, GERENDE/Training

References HM-WLAI0, 26 April 1957 (201-119523)

ACTION REQUESTED! See paragraph 5,

Py

2.

3.

5.

Subject is scheduled for covert training to begin Morday, 10 June 1957,
and to last five weks, Subject should arrive in Washington, if possi=
ble, on 8 or 9 June,

It 4s planned that Subject stay in a furnished apartment where he will
algo be trained on weekdays. For food, laundry and incidentals he
will be given per diem of %, Entertaiment of Subject will be con
servative. .

It de suggested that Mexico City Station provide Subject with a round
trip ticket by air, Pros a cover standpoint it might be wise to have
Subject visit his mother's relatives in South Carolina on the way to
Washington, If feasible he shold create the izpression that ho ia
visiting Rew York City or both New York and Washington on this tripe

Sabject's cover while in the U, S, will be that of tourist.

Please cable Subsect's time of arrival and flight mmber, He will be
met at the airpert by the desk operations officer, “larry,” In the
event the meeting is not made he should call the telephone mmber
forvarded under separate cover and ask for "larry." In the event he
is still unable to make contact he should go to the National Hotel,



Distribution:

POLY S54
KAPOK #500
Page Tvo

1808 Bye Street, N, W., take a room and wait for a call, If unable to ©

get a rocn he should leave a forwarding address for further contact,

J.C, KING
Chief, WHD

Attachmontor
1 ~ As described above, u/s/o

17 May 1957

3 = Hoxico City, v/att.
1 = HI/TIT,'APOK Chrono,
1 Subject, v/o/att,

WH/TTT MMoxico/LSulemja

3. C, KING, CHIEF, WED

|



OFFICIAL DISPATCH

t WA oes DESPATCH NO. Reg ts19—

‘
am1-19523
TO 5 Cdn of Station, Mexico City TERR
FROM

+ Chtof, 1D

GOTERAL
suanct | at ee Mattera

Reforentos BO-S-SE61, 19 Decender 1956 (50-64-1516)

2, Ft is enticiprted thst subject us ty
Cr/ce aattera, Thetogearby 2 ont h wy
be able to ecrplute hia g 9

3. «tis ny til be ot tearist cork

29 April 1957
Distribution:
3 - Mexico City ieee
HA 1 + WH/III/Chrono
: 1 - Gfaiiroca

i Sessa ——
a —

Ye oe ‘SECRET eee

Brine 51-29 aI NG SX 23

i



ee ; ne
: st

' 22 April 1957
i MEXOKANDU FORs § D/TH

ATTENTION & Agsiotent Chief For Covert Training, C3/Tr.
Yd 8 Ud/3/Mexico
SUBJECT 8 Request For Covert training

Projects LIFSTICE

Pseudo s Kaymrd 8. Gerente

i
i
i
{
t
af
4 1. Initinted bys Wi, Bransh 3, Maxico = FI :
4 .
i 2. Date of Project A;provali 2 Fewanbar 1955 i
i ‘Type and Date of Clesrencet Arended Operations) Approval C-32743
! effective 19 Yarch 1956. Suercodes OA
g@ronted 28 Fotruary 1955.
3e Agen’ Status: Contreet Agent
i
j
!
i
{

4e dgont Hationdity: Born in U.S., tut renounced aitisenship to
becons Mexican citizen on 32 July 1952.

Se Operations Officers I,vrence B, Sule Heo to studert asi Lorry
‘oom 2114, Brton Hell, x-2555

Alternate Oparntions Officers John B. Brady Ynoun ta studert
ase dnck Boon 2212, Berton Hall, x-3162

6. Fieerrs dntest Boginring sbowt 10 June 1957 for approxizately

| %- Complete tiogra:hie tsekground of trainsst . f
t See mancrandum atteshede

8. Previous intelligence training: Treinsd in surveillance and
related techniques by his field case officer. No formalimed
trainings

9. Frojcet Osjective: Physicd surveillance in Mexico City ares to
obtcin CE and operntion:] information on Soviet/Satellite end
Party versoonel, plans end activities. This project
sup.crts a technical surveiilence pro.ect in Mexico. Sone of
the basebouses under Froject :2iSTiCK support tho pryaieal sur
woillence aspect of Station cperrtions whereas sone of the nse~
houses support technic) survedl)-ncese

Segre |

i



0

ee

1.

he

a

Ue

15.

Deseription of agonts duties in the fields Unior the direct
supervision and guidance cf the Crse Officer, f.1] operstiow]
and ecnitotrative responsibility end ocntral of tre folluving:

Ge LIPSTICK team

by, LIPSTICE Car 94

¢. LIESTICK/:DUTED basehouse |! “+
4. LIFSTICE/:1LYIG th chowso V+
@. LIFZTICK/;LakicN basohouse .
f. LINSTCK

ge LIPSTICK effics #2

hb, Protext invostigations
1. Spot scaignmonts

In sumory it on be sold that tie o-bjest's princip«] duties ero
adainistretion «md operation. direction of the LIPSTICK testy
precopaing 35 to 40 rolia of 3§ wm fils ecch veur, euntesting
agonts ind “eting as cut—cut far the Cose Officer, conducting
Andividus) investigations, handling cash cdévances, acsumtings,
end property.

Ee cee te tek

Degeription of agent's cover in the fieldt Gerande io per-
feetly covered working for LIPSTICK 19 28 purebssing egent. ie
epends e,proximtely three to four hours per dry working on his
Gover duties, This cover is believed ty all hie fricnds, 18
@uroble and allove sufficient freedom fer eperstional activity.

Proposed cover to be used during trainings It {e «ntieipated
that subject vill eons to the TS. ceo tourtet, In-axush as
Gorendo's nother hae six sisters and three brothers 1'ving in
either Colunbia @ Sumter, South Crrolins, (se of June 1955)
touriat over for rm would appeer te os spproprh..tes

Student avedlabliity for trainings full tino,

Specific rroblexs to be considered in binfling tra:nee: Bene
envisioned et this tic, S.bjeet specks English,

Specific training subjects to be covereds Banio Tradecrsft,
GI/CE course, thotogre;.hy, and s-me codio Furveillsnce technicuas.

Teehniox training requirements: Photography and <wifo surveills me
techni<ues.

i
t
i

i



16. Hon otwtertt in tho past, of dees ho at prevent, viait overt

AuoidtLiasviues ef tiw org himtion? bene la tho tee.
ae Presumbly he bas never been in the Strtion in Mexico
ity.

Le Seaiel attributes to be evalusted:

3. Ce KING
Chief, WED

AFPROVALSs

Senior Staff iraining Cifiesr

CI Staff

Attestenhtt Blegraphic Date

(H/T terri o/

Rastributions

Orig & 1 Adéresese ~ v/attech

: 2 WH/TD/Chreno - v/attach
1 Sabjest~ v/attach



ii

Citisenship
Father
Mothers

Sisters

Orrieinl
Identity Papere

ATTACHERT 10 T1UIKING MEMO

Ranon Joseph ALVAREZ Du Rent

7 Decexber 1933 in Kew York City

Rexiean

Fernando ALVAREZ (cocersed), Mexican citizen

Janio Du lant, win. de ALVAREZ, U.S. oftizen,
born 13 Deogaber 1906 at Sunter, So, Cerolins

Vereia and série

Mexican passport 64177 issued in Hexico City 19
Decsaber 1953; renewed 16 Rovasber 195/, #7NL,
goes 26 Bovezber 1956, Mexican draft eard
s

Protestant - non-denoninational

Anericnn Uigh School, Fexieo, DP., diplos July 1952

Yariv City College, Bed. in latin American stadios,
1955

English end Spanish

JeanuaryDecenber 1953—Mexico City—xXV'a Division ée
Infanteria, 15/0 Co pania de Trenseisicnes Corporal

age
Height st oye
hassel
Face shzpe oval
Complexion fair
Posture erect
Lice 45 lbs.
feoth normal, straight
Bair brow
Sears +" barisontal on tip of chin
Baila wedi

“te
t
wot



i
i

i

!

i

|
be
t

i
i

a a SECRET :
. i REQUEST FOR COVERT TSS TRAINING

IMPORTANT: 2) Approval of Scalf Training Officer must be indicated on this form.
.' Bb) Approval of Ci Staff must be indicated on this form.

) If student is a member of » foreign intelligence or security service, the name of the service murt be indi-
cated in the space provided.

4) If student is © contract agent, be must have full operational clearance, must have signed his cortract, and
project must be an approved project.

0) TSS will provide training site facikties provided that the sites are avaiable on the dates training Is requested,

f} Should i be necessary for the student 10 onter agency buildings {other than safehocses), the requostor will
undertake to procure Cl staff approval, alto building posses or badges when necessary.

1 Namo of student: ... Raymond. .H... Cerende... Dl tre E) Pseudo 9) Crypto

2. Training elias to be employed....."Lay!"

3. Name of Operations Officer: Lawrence. B..Suls...,

+ Sonlor Staff: .. Room No. and Bldgs... Wh Dela...

4. Name of Approved Project . 2:

5. Operotions Officer known to stadent as: (Name) “LAXTY.".
6, Nationality of student: .. Mexdear

7. Status of student: ¢ i
ae | eee
& Staff agent: [] b. Cortact agent: [X] i

€ Foreign Intell. or Security Service Official (specify name of service): .Not.spplicable--

1B. Language in which training will be conducted... ERclish..... . .
(Note: Requestor agrees fo provide interpreter should such be required)
9. Country of area in which student will operate: .. Haxicn....

10, Wit ogent train hers? Yes] No EX] ee -
TL Detes during which student will be available for training: From ..10..June..AQSZ...
12. Will training take place inc : : |
"6158 traning ste: C) Ste provided by Arce Divisions] (OTR will provide safehouse)
DISTRIBUTION:

Orig. & 1 ~ For one subject } rss Page One

1 — For each additional subject
t= C Stat SECRET



be given, Indicating wh ther proficiency {development cf skill) of familiarization {beieting) 18 dostrod.

ining is te take placo, if knuwn.

‘Will agent
train others
Jn pubjaet

b, Will trainee be issued system:
O ves (Ne .
¢. Js sytem now used In the field:

O ves (J No

, 4. Other (Specify

landostina work...

AUDIO SURVEILLANCE,

y) . 1. Microphone installation
2. Wireless microphone installation __.
3. Telophono tap Installation —-——-——}-

4, Detect kits

- 5, Othor (Specify) Tap2 Recorders

COVER AUTHENTICATION:

1L Aspects of document authentication
(Specify area)...

2. Use of documentation in Cl activities! .

3. Use of documentation in PP activities!
4. Deeumont collection (Specify ares)
LOCKS 8 PICKS,

All other TSS subjects should be specifically
requested using # separate shoot as part two
of this form.

* Roquests for proficioncy trolning In those subjocts mus) be proceded by a discussion with C/TSS/Training Div.

. . 4

APPROVED: ..sescsssesssssesssseesensesssresssnsenenes
Staff Trelning Officer .

Requastor’, Signature

ar . {RICO ; “ :
Page Two ae we . no : * oo : Page Throe

SECRET : oe a _ Se SECRET

ancy training in these subjects must be preceded by a discussion with C/TSS/Training Div. 7



: is SECRET

WH/TII/Maxico 16;

INSTRUCTIONS:

SECTION 1

Section 11 only. If tre:

SECTION 111:

ou a

TEupenone

Barton Hall | 2555

Fore avst be typed or grinted tn block letters.
identt in the epaces proviged.
Vicabley musi
4. Write UNENOEN for 1

Lice cere: a Mf eestgned. Ef tee
enaltave, both Secti

Te be cor

SECTION I

wane (Lent) (rey (wrddtoy
ALVAREZ DuRant, Ramon Joseph

(fale)

NAAE_VARIANT.

Pivot (eddie)

ite

foceuration/PossT:

SPcoontar oF vitin CP City on Tome oF BATH
USA New York City

Tox

SECTION 11

CAVE TONYE O8

Patuoonve

SECTION ITT

P” counter or acsioence. PO action gesx 18. [7 ano city entenesT 12.
ex 33

Permanently charged to WH/III/Mexico

City intenest

«Teer ae 89l res:

1 mOV 33

7 SECRET

'


f
i
i
|
|

TO

CA IWTERNAL USE ORLY A
‘CRET
fe pinted ee Cant :
PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST
ont notion
[Toren [Toxo Jexsse

RI/ANALYSIS SECTION

FROW >
foil fav

Terns
a7

Ly

INSTRUCTIONS: Fore aust be txped or printed ta block Letters,

dete ta
J.P

TIT. On a acparety form,

SECTION I

tvadonra, 0 sselaned. If trae mane 1s sensitize, obteln 201 seaber trae D1 Con,
be 301 sunber and complete Section 11

Teavive were.
[ [wom seartnee

o | souRcE DoGumenT

PY wae (Leet) Twiddiey

Tray y+

NAME_VARTANT

Pons] (teet) (uidaiey (iret) (Fietey

C7

coor

GIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

