# 104-10063-10007

## Page 1

104-10063-10007

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFICATION

SECRE

RY B

A T

ref, WOMUSE

Chief, WH Division

Th-?

Chiefd.

of Station, Mexico City&c

SUBICT MACHAOS LIFEAT Or

Charles SMALD (201-090648)]

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENES I 0,5

PROCESSING ACTIAN

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILH

Attached you will find a transcript of several calls to

Subject

These are being forwarded

in this manner to signal Head-

quarters special attention to several items.

For some time there, have been a number of conversa-

tions between the SMALLs and

Is concerning some sort:

of publication (possibly.mimeograph) which.they are.in process-of

turning out Jointly. (See 126

IN of Att.)

kind of mental problems. Finally, Abbott SMALY is attempting to

go to "Berkeley" next year.

(209 IN of Att.)

06

The conversation

between Charles SMALL and Qscar:

from Havana describing the latter's plans and

health. (438 IN of Att.)

2.. Headquarters should be aware that copies of the transcript

also have been given to the local LNERGO office

Maid, Pin

Malco

Zule

1000444111

Attachment:

H/W, A/S

Transcript (Orig & 1)

Distribution:

C/WOMUSE, w/atts.,

-Icc: C/WHD, w/o att.

h/ w

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use. Gr

Do Nat Reproduss

7084

CROSS REFERE

201-090648

ke.

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

22.204

УММА: 39836

LASSIFICATION

SE CRE T/RY BAT*

DATE

9 December 1970

HQS FILE NUMBER

200-6-387/3

15/000

---

## Page 2

14-00000

li.:

іл..

9uer1970

42-S #54

126

In

209

26 November 1970 (Thursday) On at 15.03 hrs.

16.06 hrs.

05

BUSTY

Ito CHARLES re football games being

played Iolowing day and on Sunday

matern to see me te day stille mol me to

CHARLES indicates

residence and says he will pick up "those

sheets, if you have them done, too."

O5 CHARLESS appreciation of work done and quoted ANITAb

as saying,

was doin them today; that she told it aNyo

'I enjoy doing it for two reasons, 1) because

and the other is

requested someone to pick up in U.S., their getting

together an Sunday, etc.

17.04 hrs.

21.10 hrs:

22.12 hrs.

05,06

Collect LD call from ABBOTT to CHARLES & BERTHE SMALL!

and + 06

BERTHEasks if it is the same job. He says it is--same

stuff--but that work would run out pretty soon, that

he would thereafter work a little while "at a printer's..

CHARLES) says they got that info. by letter and asks [ABBOrno.

how about his coming here for Christmas.

He says he still

does not know what is going to happen, adding that he is

"still hung up on CHLOEld that he is calling from the

06

(IFAN and children). He mentions having talked

with DENNIS Several times recently. [CS)says they just

heard from DENNISothat he had won'a second prize in

poetry translation," for which he received twenty dollars.

oSCs inquires with regard to the "guy you're consulating...

he any help?" ABBOTT comments that it helps "off and

on" and BS)asks if he's sticking with it... "Your therapy."

He says he is.

She urges

him to give therapy a chance.

He says it has helped some,

adding that he had cried

in two out of the four sessions; that he thinks the guy

Is great; that he was just sort

of lonesome for CHLOE; 06

that analyst feels that "I have kind of damned up and

blocked up a lot of emotion which was giving me other

kinds of mental problems," that he has helped some; that

if he does not come for Christmas, he will probably come

down around New Year's or shortly

thereafter. SMALlseS

say DENNIS Is expected to arrive here around 16th Decembe

06 ABBOTT says he.

has had some "down periods" and some

periods."

Basks if he is able to function and he

replies

"Off

and on," that at times he feels frustrated

3 /g

AN GMEA

---

## Page 3

14-00000

42-5 #54

209-Cont 'd.

321

438

In

-2.

26 November 1970 (Thursday) - Cont'd.

******##*

• BS alludes to his housing setup and he says

it is pretty good; that they are four anolmay possibly.

De IIVe,

woread out,

rather nicely. Bu asks It he

does not see the

very frequently and, when he

advises affirmatively, comments that that is "very

good. "o'ABBOTT:] And DICK

P{ph.) has been very

good to comments that they are an eat people.

He's a lovely, lovely

* ABBOTT says he has been seeing a few women and has a

couple of men friends..."I just don't feel that close

to anybody...kind of impatient. "Sjasks about his

physical health.oS SMALL comments that ASHER

06

which occasion he had dropped b

5 SMALL] store. ABBOTT expects to remain in Los Angeles

until Sunday; that he drove down and will head back

(for San Francisco). ABBOTIJalso comments that "I have

just written MAURICE (HALPERIN. a long letter" (apparently

Thanksgiving, etc.

-27 November 1970 (Friday)

07.05 hrs.

08.12 hrs.

TI.50 hrs.

15.30 hrs.

18.00 hrs.

OSCAR

Ita. CHARLES SMALL & latter asks where he is

calling from.

OSCAR says he is in Havana and wants to

thank (CS)"for

"those lovely books you

and one for us."

stone for san

preciation and essays it sTaght OSCARl mentions thet

"nice way of saving hell

o Oscar, says he is not too well health-wise; that he has a

lot of pain every day and "I'm pushing an awful lot of

nitro-glycerin and other very powerful heart dialators

every day," that he has very bad chest pains but that

there is nothing to do; that he was thinking of possibly

coming to Mexica

during December but (ESJadvises against

December."/OSCAR says he has some rather exciting possi-

bilities on his literary work, has a movie ofter on

Do the nan wrote to lay ba sin a bot a diate

40

the sanchez family, that screenplay is not bad and (LuIs)O

reportedly is interested; that

---

## Page 4

14-00000

42-S #54

438-Cont 'd.

548

581

614

42-S #54

_ 3 -

27 November 1970 (Friday) - Cont'd.

.06

OSCAR to gonawav to Italy for six months, citing the

good that

derived from his recent trip to france.

with his

"new wife."

--28 November 1970 (Saturday)

07.47 hrs.

09.26 hrs.

11.21 hrs.

14.00 hrs.

I7.12 hrs

19.21 hrs.

20.51 hrs.

-29 November 1970 (Sunday) ?

09.32 hrs.

11.29 hrs.

07.56 hrs.

-END OF REEL

Off at 16.00 hrs.

29 November 1970 (Sunday)

.......END

Удо

---

