# 104-10101-10207

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10101-10207

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

rost tuna

091 10

come.

01 d

CA, PAIN

sa 4, or

1. 48 8, м 8. 18 8

то

ix/12.09/0P3

INTO

SOUPLAN

ADDI

DANA RABA NOBI RAGU VIEN DANY THI

VICHIN FEET COME OSLOCATE HORN

SSE

88265

PIRAND

HEAR LAST - APRICA BRIT

(SOPORA IN BLASTE. REMAININO INTO RRRRABABZS TO LIAISON.)

SPAIR-APRICA: THI 18 DEC PASBISCITS ON LOCAL AUTOMONY IN

BRET PLANNE ARICA VILL PROVES NO MORE THAN BROINENO SEND

TOMAND AUTONONY FOR FERRANDO POO AND NIO NUHI.... IT MAY HEAD ONE AT-

TACKS IN TAN UN ON SPAIN'S COSONIAI JUNICI, BUS THE ABAKICE ON LIGAT.

PROVISION TUR IRAL POLITICAL AUTONINY COULD JORTER AGITATION BY

NATIVI JATIORALIST ELINENTE VID BAVE MIAN INORTASENGLY AETIAR SINCE

LAST BUIASKA, BIVERAL HUXDIR DO TARA RACINTEX ASTURIND FRON EXILE

IN FZIGHBORINE COUNTRIES TO PARTICIPANE IN IRS PLEBZSCITY IN THE

HOPE OF ANNUMING POSITIONS OT INFLUENCE BIDER THE PROMISED AUTOMONY.

(CONT)

2. NATO: //BRITAIN'8 POSITION AT TER dO DAC NESTINO OR THE NATO

ICOMONIC ADTIRERS APPARINTLY KILLS ANT MAORTAGT TRAT ACHRISSAT ON

A СОМОН СУКОТТ РОІСУ ТОПАВІ ТИВ ВОТТІТ ВІС САЛ 8З АСТЕННТО 17 58В

10000199149 OРIСЕВ0

MSCRAT

THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMINENTED.

cindy tiss

602

---

## Page 2

O NO INDE

MAN SON TITTIE PAIN

Sti;

D001 LAY ADAINS UN

MOM: DISICTIN

 :

140 в

1199 14 708:::

14A1E4N MADES SEEI

DEFEARED

ROUTINE

13345.

INfO

-PARA MAgi

CITE DIR

' 82365

ES' DUSC MATO MINISTERLAL NSATINO.

AX INTARIN MOPORNL TRAY: PRIOR NSPEFICATION RA HIVNH:TO MATO: BB:

PORE CAROT? GUARNNIES NUNNINI PÓR SSER TRAN PAVASIXARBIATI ORAIED: /I

**'S.VONNOCI: MORNIN'-ILEN LIASUANLIAY ARRENT RESNANATION AS

90544312

MATIONAL STADICAL UNZONFAND 178: EINUICANE;

OUS:DEPARTUNE

ON GAKKOR BARLY THIS TRUE LIVE: INNOVED AUDITHR PAPANDI

H-08:8 PROS-

PRETS NOR TINTING THI VOTH OF COPINKX-HUHKAUNED:TOS. 18 DEC.

•'MiStaR KiN: DEPORIES HAY VON DETECT TO TII CARIER UNION COVERY-

ENTITO GIVE IT A MAJORITY, IP PIAAHDRIOU IS CONVINCED THAT SUCH

PARROTORS FOSLO TORT BLACERELY TOX THE CRANER UNION COTERNATIT, IS:

UNDET DROP HIS DERANDS POR LARLY IS SENTIONS, ID SOT, IIB HAY 88238

ТОВ БІДСТТОВ ЇН ТИВ ПОРА О ІННІН А ВЕСИКІ АЛЛІЛИКИТАНУ НАТОВІТІ

от віз син.

THE ERS LAS CROSRN TORNER-VICE SEENIIA KANELLOPORLOR AS ITS

058 LBADER, BUT MIT TIR SAITT IN ONRORITION AND MIT ITS TONSURE

OUT OF TRE COURTEY, IT LAY SURVALES TRACAREER. (COM)

MITSOLIA EXPORTIN COMMIRIES (URE) AND TA PANOR ISSRRASZORAZ DEL

COMMITES DOS MARTERS: THEME.

s.. ico.0 000.810

===

a0.e2410.0

bein 7 191

бакого оото

---

## Page 3

ria.

10

-PAGE THREE-

1*89265

1/LAST MEEX OPEC TURNED DOMY AN OFTER BY THE COMPANIES TO GO MAT

DAX UTAM "NET!H. APRC DEHAVDS FOR HIGHER ROYALTIES. THE YIDESPRBAD

PUBLICITY GIVEN TIIS ALTION HAS MADE COMPROMIBE FAR SURI DITPICULT

THAN IT HAD BEEN. \ FAN, HHICH DABARERA HODERATE LINE SE HAD SAIN,

IRAN, VRICE DESIRES A MODERATE LIAB IN TIX NEGOTIATIONS, IS IH-

CREASINGLY RELUCTANI TO DISSOCIATE IIBBLE FRON TIE LISS PLEXIBLE

POSITION OF THE OSHER OPEC HEMBERS. / Y

1/0PDX IS SCHEDULED TO KEST AGAIN IN RIYADE, BAUDI ABABIA, ON

24 DEC. THI MESTING IS LIXELY TO PRODECE BECONMENDATIONS FUR UNITED

ACTION SY OPSC MEMBER COUNTRIES AGAINST FIX COMRANINE. |/ (CONE)

5. TURKIY-US8R: CONSTRUCTIONDE A BOVIST PROPOSED DAN ON THE

TURKISH-SOVIET BORDER HAS BEEN DELATED PENDING ABRIAL SURVEY. THE

PURES INSIST AEPIAL SURVEY IS NECESSARY FOR THE PREPARATIONOS KIT

HAPE TO BE USRD IN PLANNING FOR THE DAM AND THE RELATED IRRIGATION

SYSTEM.

TURKISH OFFICIALS CHAIY NEN DAM VILL SUPPLY IRRIGATION VATERS TO

THE IGDIR PLAIN IN VORTIBEST TURKEY AND MILL FURNISE ELECTIRICTY TO

PREY IOUBLY UME DEVELOPED AND REMOTE AREA, 19 MINNING TURKIER APPROVAL

6 : .

1145

d: 67:

;:::

SCRET

/ 0080:1111

i"=no Maa

---

## Page 4

O NO MAX

S2A4S 1945S NE NO

#rit

5118? z. 191

BE LA EA

& M147641 10

DEFERREO

ROUTINE

2-2-8312

281

INFO

Chit Dia

RAS FOUR

will i

88865

TIL SOVIET TACUNICAL TRAN APDARIATLI BOONNA IN FIRER-DOMPARIRAN OP

"RIGHT" SOVIET AND "DARK' ITIAN BUTTER FILARIZ.

THE PROJECT, TO BE BUILY POLITER:!

SAMT-198?

TURCO-SOHLET MATERA DONERUBHE, PAS PINT UK

194D:97583:9071573:

IN BARLY 1961, FOLLONINE TECHNICAL STUDINS, TURKEY INCUUND TAX

BORDEK DAM IN ITS: CURESNE FETE: FAR:FRAN AIR ENVATAN A TRAM OF SOFIET

TICHRICIANS TO COLE TO TUdYLy TO DISCUSA T117A-JOR,TUA JOINT INTORT.

EXCHPT: FOR AERIAL SURVEY, ACARRARYS HES ZAS 088-954019-011-ALL-HATOR

POINTS, DESPITE DELAY, CONSTRUCTTON OF DAS TELL MA NACHARLY BBQIN IS

THE SPRING.

TURKISE-SOVIET COOFERATION IN ECONONIC HASTURB IN THE BORDER

AREA NAS RECESTLY DIMONSTRAILO IN THE JOINT CONITRUCTION OR A

BORDES BRIDGE TIAT LAD BEEN DESTROTED SIVERAL TRADES ACO. THE SEN

BEIDGE IS ESPECIALLi IXPORTANT TO TUNDS EXPORTINE LIVESTICE TO -I

SOVIET ÜNION. (03:7)

3. Im.. 1,.I 5: ¡1710В 0 ПТОТ ТіД 11 РЕС УОЧЕ Т

ВЕВАТІ: ТГА Й! ?:!іЙГ. ІЇ МІСЯ А РТУТ. 33118 dinini

#ON4359-+9+1111111 400858 800117 NSCA ONER IRATILS

Tora.

2058 237-977

a t 006. 108-40.9.00

one foo

8-76-78.1

147-95t.71

---

## Page 5

UNIT

EXI

DATI

FROM: DIk!"'!?.

CONF:

INFO :

180u9isé

TO

SH651 892605

-PAGE FIVE-

WILL REFLECT ITS CO VICTIO; TUIT SUE PLANE DID NOT STRAY OVER TS

BORDER, AS NOSCON CLAW, IND WILI. ASSERT THAT THE SOVIETS SHOULD

THEREFORE PAY FULL LALACES MATTER THAN THE SO PERCEN: OFFERED. THE

INCIDENT OCCURRED "0 NOV DURING STATE VISIT OF SOVIET PRESIDENT

FREZÜNEV.!: (CONT)

7. ARAB STATES: ISRAEL: //NABIR CLAIMS THERE IS NO CHANCE

OF A UNIFIED ARAL PLAN TO COUNTER ISRAEL'S PROGRAM FOR DIVERTING

THE JORDAN FIVER NATERS EARLY NEXT YZAR. ARAB MILITARY CHIEFS HAVE

BEEN MEETING IN CAIRO FOR THIS PURPOSE, BUT THERE ABS I0 HEPORTS

THAT THEY SAVE REACIED ANY AGRESENT. OT 3: DEC NABIR SAID HE WAS

PORRIED THAT SYRIA UGTTA ACT UNILATERALLY AND PRESENT TAS OTTER

ARAB STATES VITE A DILERS. (I (08E)

' flannels

19-89091856

ep111.1

H188040.1

tili

-...

to to +4-91 449840908

Boor was are. el it

let 15 permitts

8.sfp Nex

---

