# 104-10180-10066

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10180-10066)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

paro pil"s Planco

RETURN TO CIA

Backumund ilse Only

Do ito: Repioduce

e, No 19 now lA!'s jeorlary for

stient truth, uns a tell inour, juda student iearer, dha sia later te

Seanse che Mirst prosidelt of the Fil after jastro case lo pouer.

As a student Leader In 1653 PlaNTI vas elected presidont of the

Mars "niveralty itudent indon. lt that time ho and his bruther, roberto

CO: 1980 CrOuDle Neth Balisio, so in 1955, when Ballata olosed the

university, PullinE continued to conspire against Batista and eventually

had to escapo to ver suela in order to save his neck. He subsequently

case &s the laS. In 58 he inft the l'S and found his may into the

Escastray muntains whero he joined anti-batista forces, not necessarily

casiro surces, for there vere rany & anti-Batiata gro pa in the nountain

a tisi ilme, He did, however, 101n Castro forces as tho campalen

Arter to successiul revoit, FlaNt *

what returned

to jara University to continue his lax studies. He was olected the

Fill prosidens 151 close ejection against studenis backed by Castro.

19ier praduation MlEinE worked with IlI?, a Cuban Tourist commission,

rus 1n late 1951 be becare convinced that the ünstro moverent

wag "nut for hir" and scen began t: conspire afainst Castro.

in early 196C jiTe went underpround and rejortedly stajed sub

rosa "ntil the Baj of :li's invasion as which tire he came out to assist

or me enalaing. iloweder, Ir. the ensiing subusag roundur of oprosition

rr0:p3, Jose and 119 brother, icarto, were caupht nd imprisoned.

'cerrini to F'!.T, he tried to escare thice and was carpt both

icie= nerols nine anths in ;riser, jose and his borther,

inart: one released by justro as the resilt of direct incervention

oj piza ciry, epuég to me .antanian la inal isserbly ari

o"ua.:. a eule to tire to in to get here us freei. in arch

:084-1310-8.

- •те:.

7%

17:

2: 8.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Consents:

Ona could pronahly and perhses priperly INER thie jose 13

& Castro

agent, bus aside from the efisode dealing with his release,

at the benest of Thelra king, and the report that he carried

with his, aiter his release fron prison, 150 scholarshipad which

arpe-s to have Bone significance, there 1s no conclusive evidence

pointing toxard Jose's Involvenent, te jast or presert, with Gastro's

security apparat.

There 10, however, considerably nore evidence that he lo not

an agert of Castros For examplas

1. He has fought afainst lastro and was isprisoned by hin.

2. Fint he has reportedly denounced Thelna King openly.

3. Bret fe does not get along with his brother jorge, who

1s tled in vith Piniero.

L. He has broadcasted anti-Castro and anti-Batista

propaganda fron Radio CIENIL, a parananian station.

5. satet he, lA antl-Castro, Aril-Gormunist and pro-

denocratic and that his actions, according to dose,

since 1953 should speak for tenselves, Includirg

his

actions and propaganda wori against Castro sinse

his arrival in the United Stites.

I don't b: Hove I'm that naive to think that' Jose's

actions

to date coulu not be fart of a pre-arranged plan, but

the evidence availahle points in the ones direction.

I do surrest Et8 to possible alterratives, the first of whica

I prefer:

1o Apprise lay of this inforation and let hin deterine

Puente's bona fides; caution his to be ciscreet with his futare plars

and said telling firit

?. Int is deternine PlUto's t01s fides by se-tracire,

inclading sureau chess ard life flies. Deterare his reliezenshle

with jone in ina and atten on ascertain wiether ie 1s

To riausthle

corresponding with ria. Il vesirecfe coula ser begin a rail

iniercert. In lin: with your chu cata se nos being an 1-seil

unit for li, i saeeathe sitest ie tomer proposal.

---

