(104-10126-10042) (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

£ " UFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
- IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10126-10042
RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER 80TOI357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA .
FROM : STURBITTS, WILLIAM C/LA/STB
TO : BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT, OLC
TITLE : SPEED LETTER RE UNIDENTIFIED PERSONS IN MEXICO.
DATE : 07/28/1978
PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : HSCA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/05/93

COMMENTS JFK57 : F2 : 1993.08.05.18:59:15:840037

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10126-10042

HW 54559 DocId:32400215 Page 1


nw Coy
-{ res

- Date
SECRET REPLY REQUESTED

SPEED LETTER ; 28 July 1978
ves No

LETTER NO.

THF] SeStE Breckinridge, OLC,NgS
Room oD5317 Be HHQS  lenows My Wabd ign Sture ty Bora)
HQS, Room 3C34

REF: MEXICO CITY 46000 (IN 1047459)

As you will note from Ref, the Mexico City Station was unable to
locate LIONION-1 in Mexico and believes he may be in Spain. We are
preparing a priority cable for the Madrid Station which will give them
the background and ask their assistance in locating him. We are not
asking them to contact him at this time.

The Mexico Station also drew a blank on the whereabouts of Viola
June COBB, AKA June COBB Sharp, and Henry P. Lopez. It will be noted
that the Station carried out pretty thorough investigation, and there
seems to be nothing to indicate either are now in Mexico.

On the assumption that Sharp and Lopez may be in the United erates,
we Suggest that the HSCA be advised of the resuits of our unsuc ees seu
efforts to locate them in Mexico. We believe that any efforts t a
and Lopez, both of whom are U.S. persons, should be initiated by the
HSCA rather than the Agency.

In order to assist the HSCA in their efforts, we have included what
we have oh their last known whereabouts in the U.S.

. a) Viola June COBB Sharp was known to have. been in New York City in
1968. We have no address there. As of about 1960, her father,

SlewaTURE

1998S

STGNATURE

RETURW TO ORIGINATOR

nwSi599¢] Docra SiRMisn Page 2 SECRET E2 IMPDET
CL BY 029163



SECRET.

Jasper E. COBB, Lived at 710 North Sunset, Ponca City,
Oklahoma. ”

b) The last known address included in our files for
Henry P. Lopez was 5900 Arlington Avenue, Riverdale, New
York. His phone number at the time (Nov 1966) was (212)
884-8728.

. ay
Pvirian C. Sturbitts

2

SECRET
NW 54559 Docld:324U0215 Page 3
