# 104-10118-10300

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10 118-10300

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

104/

SECRET

FRP :

STAFF

CONF: C/LA-8

INFO: ODPD-D, VR, FILE, C/CCS, C/CIO4, E/EPS/EG2,

C/EUR-6, C/IAD/IC, C/IAD/OG, CLINTIFLA C/OG/DMS, CAPOSA C/PES/PGLA CAPM,

OLEA

(31/P)

78 1544033

PAGE 001

тот: 0922567

NOV 78

DIRECTOR 324426

SECRET

STAFF 092255Z DIRECTOR 324426

TO:

PRIORITY MADRIDIINFO MEXICO CITY.

RYBAT AKULE IKDAFGHAN

15-2

REFS: A. MADRID7 41923. 1541466

APPROVALS ARPRUCHAD FRE MOTOS PALTON TO CONTACT LOAFGHANS

RE PARA ONE, THERE AREINO PARENT GOMPANY

IN VIEN OF REF

02

INFORM MADRID DIRECTOR

BELIEVE DECISION WHETHER LK/-1

SHOULD

BERLITZ OF HSCA REQUEST IS ONE BEST LEFT TO

DISCRETICH OF KIL.

IN ORDER TO ASSISTIK-L IN MAKING HIS DECISION,

REQUEST GORID INFORM KEI OF THE ADVERSE REACTION TO THE PUBLICITY

AFFECTINGCK-I REPORTED REF

TO ASSURELKIL THAT TO AVOID

AND OBTAIN HIS VIEWS CA STATION MAY WISH

FOR INTERVIEW TO BE CONDUCTED IN U.S. RATHER THAN

ADVISE HIS REACTION AND ALSO IF HE ANTICIPATES WHETHER HE FORESEES

BE CON 4E35 17

ANY FURTHER PUBLICITY G

POON HAS OPTED

_IN_EUROPE.

PLEASE

ANY PROBLEM IN TAKING LEAVE.

RE PARA 2 OF REF A, BELIEVE IT

BETTER

FOR ALL CONCERNED IF STATION CAN INDUCE IF'S TO COME TO

STATES FOR INTERVIEN.

INCURRED.

ASSURE K-1 THAT USG WILL PAY ALL EXPENSES

IF KEI RECEPTIVE TO TRAVEL TO U.S..

ON TIMING OF TRIP. IF KYI BALKS AT HOLDING MEETING IN U.S..

WILL EXPLORE WITH HSCA POSSIBILITY OF MEETING ELSEWHERE IN

EUROPE,

3.

HOS RECORDS FAIL REFLECT KOL'S PRESENT CITIZENSHIP. WOULD

APPRECIATE IF MADRID CAN CLARIFY THIS POINT WITHIKTI.

FOR

YOUR

BACKGROUND

INFORMATION, MADRIDI 16898 (Z8 JULY 1972) REPORTED THAT STATION PLANNED

HAVE THE IKDAFGHANS APPLY FOR CITIZENSHIP AFTER ARRIVAL ON CUBAN

03

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

17701

N

---

## Page 2

SECRET

STAFF

781544033

PAGE 002

TOT: 0922562 NOV 78

DIRECTOR, 324426

PASSPORT.

FURTHER THAT ACCORDING TOM

* LATINS ARE ABLE TO

APPLY FOR CITIZENSHIP AFTER COMPLETION OF TWO YEARS RESIDENCE IN

SPAIN. BY MADRID 17219 (11 SEPT 1972), STATION REPORTED THAT KAL HAD

CONTACTED THE CONSW ATE ON 11 SEPTEMBER TO EXPLAIN REASON TON

FUNTIL HIS SPANISH RESIDENCE ESTABLISHED,

WHICH WOULD BE APPROXIMATELY THREE MONTHS AFTER HIS ARRIVAL IN SPAINÁ

MOST RECENT INFORMATION IN HOS FILES ON (KIT'S GLIZZENSMIP IS (MADRID)

18039 (5 JANUARY 1973) WHICH REPORTED THAT

A HAS OF THE

OPINION THAT THERE WAS NO PROBLEM IN DOCUMENTINGK-T AS "STATELESS"

ON THE BASIS HE "LOST" HISER

TRODOCUMENTS, AND THAT KOL SHOULD

REPORT TO THE CAN

02

4. PLEASE KEEP HOS AND MEXICO CITY ADVISED YOUR CONTACT WITH

Kol.

5.

ORIG:

DC/EURI

FILE: 20100288248, EZ IMPDET.>

AC/LAIMGSB (LEHMAN X-122Z, GREY 03-826318 COORD: POS/PGL

(SHEPANEK); OLE (PC/HSCA) (BRECKINRIDGED; DCILAINR

LASTE CINFO: AUTH: EILAD CHARPENDI RELE

CL BY 007255.0

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

G/pi-

---

