# 104-10418-10302

## Page 1

1104-10418-10302

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Deputy Chief, CI

Deputy Chief, CI/Project

22 June 1962

ATLINGUAL, - GIGIOAK

Correspondence of & US Defector Who Recently Left the USSR Homebound

1.

As may be seen from the attached news Item, which

appeared in the WASHINGTON POST, 9 June 1962, & former

Marine Sgt. of Fort worth, Texas, who defected to the USSR

three years ago, left Moscow recently, together with his

inant child and Russian bore wife bound for the United

States. A search

of the Project Liles revesled that the

attached subject item was seit to subject by his mother on

8 July 1961. In this item writer discusses sending a par- /

cel and requesta bim to write more frequently.

2. This Item v11? be of Interest to lira. Egerter, CI/SIG,

and also to the FBI.

Attackient

Relate ki

Medaris

JUL 1 0 1961

61G10AK • Equal

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Bоy608

Crowele, Tey

MrsMhoLee X. OaRey MANL

alitsa Nalisina

Нане 4, Apartment 2 4

Minoke.

Prssed

33

JUL 1 0 1961

6IGIOAK

5 glol

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Dear fee:-

Box 608

Crowell Tex.

guly 8, 1961

"diadront

1 Bilette Razor o blades

2 dish Truelo

1. PoT holder

I Can peener (recognize if as the one you brought home

you might chick these items and jid say

in you letter content O. XI That way Sull

Kenne if yan are recising then on o plai

to send a eir elems fim teme te time

Does Mar

work alas? The sure is a prel

за ці чи а ні 2 2

new geney) and she permisch to get a copy

fome. Ot will prakady he a mouth or of

magazine..odt

will est you fen ow?

The people I wink for are real nice

---

## Page 4

13-00000

I am preparing deiner: We eat at 12:06

'click and ecually by thi tence I wish

the dishes it is about 1i s0 shen e im

this in It kitchen then (heline it nast,

en rest o the day and do nothing ties

gah and go to lown uhich is fiftee

big wit a let f call and he set

hare a Mexicon try wiking here from

you have a chance to speck with any

Americans oi write to any? Due hose

you cloud foger you onglish: Does terin

speck fuglid? Wild you like me to send

you a dictmany?..

Te jard and with iphen

Don russ

Hother

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Humber

TO

From

61G10AK

OSWALD, Lee H. (Mr. SMrs.

Minsk, IIb

OSWALD

Texas.

Date

Recid

28

July

SECRET

EYES ONLY

Languäge

English

GOW

Summary

LB = 8 July 61.

Mother writes to son.

Writer mentions

the parcel which she sent the addressee. Writer also

inquires if addressee's wife Marina works. [addressee

s a former American who defected to the Soviet Union

in October 1959}/

SEGRET

ONLY

ject.

IsSES

---

