# 104-10086-10398

## Page 1

104-10086-10398

14-00000

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS!!

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

Declassified and Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2-p÷ 003

SU"JECT:

nelay

OSWALD

in sending the first cable about

Much has been written about the delay (b

the Mexico

Station)

ins ending the first cable reques ting

name. Lee OSWALD..

It was discussed in Dave Phillips

case of laziness on

the part of the Soviet cas e

officer (which

and unnecess ary

and indicates

that Dave

didn't know wat he

was talking about).

Normally

the Spanish transcript for the 1 October

a ning of the

ld have gone

to the Russ ian/ English trans criber.

translation would have been returned th

the Soviet case office

the photographic coverage.

That cor

the station

before the

camera on the 3rd of October

the 4th, processed and pass e

October.

Th e

òwing day

(4th )

as ked for

would not have been

He film was still in the

picked up probably on

Station on the next work

3:

Later the fil

but at that time,

roil was completed

aken out of the camera every

stay ed in the camera until a

full

might take three or four das.

A name trace could have been reques ted on the bas is

of the name alone

but that wasn't the way Win Scott ran that

He wanted the photographic coverage

tied in with the

telephone coverage ..sometimes there_was a U.S. automobile

licers e number..

It was also part of the "numbers

game" of

justity ing a project by the number of dis patches, cables or

reports produced.

0000151

SECRET

Copy

I of

SECHEF

---

## Page 2

14-00000

14-00000

SECRET

SECRET

2 May 1977

SUBJECT: Review of Mexico City Station Files

at the Warrenton Record's Center

1. On 2 May 1977 Chris Hopkins and Annie Goodpasture

visited the (Warrenton Record's Center to review old Mexico

City files in search of additional photographs of the

"unidentified man". We were unable to locate any such

photographs.

It appears that earlier photographs may have

been destroyed in a purge of Mexico City Station files and

that the folders for the destroyed material were re-used to

forward more recent photographic material to Headquarters

for retention. Following are the Job numbers of boxes reviewed

and pertinent notations re re-use of the old folders:

Job #70-236 Box 1 of 3

LILYRIC Photos

1 February - 1 March 1968

(Filed in re-used folder,

LILYRIC 1 Aug. 1966 to 31

Aug

Negatives

PROHIB.

White letter-sized

nvelopes - five

packages C-1873 - 2031

Back folder - re-uses

Front folder

folder 2 Dec

used LILYRIC

28 Feb 64

1 April - 2 May 1968

Back folder re-used LILYRIC

folder 2 Mar 64 thru 29 May 64

Front folder re-used LILYRIC

folder 1 Nov thru 15 Dec 66

0000152

Aa

JFK # 056

Copy lofT

Continued

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 3

4-00000

14-00000

6

Box #9

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #10

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #11

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #12

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Job #73-506

File # 50-6-74/3

Box #1

1 - 3804

BEPRIDUCTION PROMBITED

LICALLA_

70

Aug

Sept

Oct

Nov

Dec

70

70

70

70

Jan & Feb

Mar & Apr

May & June

July & Aug

Sept & Oct

Nov & Dec

70

70

70

70

70

70

70

Dispatch HMMM 11,368, dated 17 March 1972. Photos were filed in

re-used subject and "p" folders (equivalent of subject 201 folders),

indicating contents of "original" subject and "p" files were

destroyed.

Ref (to previous shipment) (HMMA) 40,562, 21 May 71.

0000157

6

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

1 June - 3 July 1967

•Clean folder

3 July - 31 July 1967

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder

July - Aug 64

Front flap clean

1 Aug 67 - 4 Sept 67

Clean folder

4 Sept - 2 October 19

Cleạn folder

2 Oct - 31

Clean folder

REPROTUCTION PROHIBITED

1 Nov - 22 Dec 67

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder

12 Apr 66 - 18 May 66

Front flap re-used incoming cable

chrono folder 1-31 Jan 65

9 Jan - 31 Jan 68

Front flap re-used LILYRIC folder

1 July thru 31 July 1966

Back flap - clean

Job #70-236 Box 3 of 3

LICALLA Photos

2 Jan - 27 Feb 1967

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder.

5 Nov 62 - 31 Jan 63

0000154

Continued

3

---

## Page 5

14-00000.

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Dec 66 - 15 Feb. 67

• 1 Mar - 28 April 1967

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Feb - 29 June 63

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

20 Feb - 31 May 1967

* 2 May 67 ÷ 30 June 67-

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder

23. July 63 (Y-1257) to

30 Nov 63 (Y-1308)

Front flap re-used

1 Sept thru 30 Nov 1966

3 July - 30 Augu

Back flap re

RODUCTION PROHBITED

folder

19 Sept 01

30 Nov 63

14)

Front flap LICALLA re-used folder

1 June thru 30 June 1967

1 Sept - 27 Oct 1967

Back flap clean

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Aug - 31 Aug 1967

6 Nov - 29 Dec. 1967.

Back flap clean

front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1. July. - 31 July 1967

3 Jan - 28 Feb 1968

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 July thru 31 August 1966

Back flap Czech photos re-used folder

Sept - Nov 64 .

0000155

SECHET

Continued

---

## Page 6

14-00000

- 5

1 March thru 29 April 1968

Front flap re-used LICALLA (C)

28 Nov 61 to 10 Feb 62

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Apr to 1 July 1966

•2 May thru 19 June 1968

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder (Y-907 to Y-969)

12 Sept 61 - 23 Mar 1962

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Jan thru 31 Mar 1966

N.B. There was no coverage from 19 June to 15 July 1968

15 July thru 30 August 1968

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

23 Nov to 27 Feb 1965

ob #72-626/36

ЗЕРНУ

Contained nothing prior to 1967. Looking for 1963.

Job #70-209

Box #3 (Boxes 182 at Hqs)

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #4

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #5

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #6 .

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #7

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #8

Nothing

pertinent to our search

" SEGRET

0000156

Continued

5

---

## Page 7

14-00,000

SEBRET /SENSITS

REPRODUCTION PRONIBITED

Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned

street on the

southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).

• LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental

basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-

tion received word that the photograph of the "unidentified man" was

being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate photo-

graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building

on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site but in-the middle of

the block south. It had a planted view of the front gate of the Soviet

Embassy. LICALLA, the third photographic site, was located

in one of a

row of four houses on the south side of the Soviet Embassy compound.

This site overlooked the back garden of the Soviet Embassy compound. The

purpose of this operation was to get good identification photographs of

Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-

cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother

and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from the

LIMITED and LILYRIC sites

three times a week. The film was. then de-

veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips: LICALLA film was

originally processed in the Station but in early 1959, due to the resig-

nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

C6 00159

2

SECRET/SENSITIVE

8

---

## Page 8

14-00000

14-00000

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.

These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents

which used late nodel cars and

a panel truck for surveillance. The team

could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever someone of

interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of

the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for

identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a(unilateral mail intercept operation,

LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American case officer. JA recruited

Mexican agent, who had a semiofficial status, obtained selected letters

from a subagent (employed by the Mexican postal system;

2. ‹Liaison/ Coverage:

Liaison coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the Mexican services at that time. The Mexican Direction

of Federal Security (DFS), With which we conducted Tiaison, was a hip-

pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This Ministry

was principally occupied with political investigations and control of

foreigners. Their agents were win his Treet, and corrupt. (A Station,

officer trained a number_of-them in-name-tracing and travel control. In

(1958, at the instigation of a Mexican official, a joint telephone tap/

operation came into existence. The operation, which became known as

0000160

3

SEGRET/SENSITIVE

---

## Page 9

14-00000

14-00000

Sibil 005191

CLIENVOY, was run by a Mexican officer. The listening post had 30 lines

connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by Mexican

Army officers.

In 1961, (because of mismanagement by the Mexican prin-

cipals,) the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A

Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening

post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also

an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald Coverage:

In mid-1962, the Mexican officer in charge of LIENVOY (the

joint tap operation) asked the American officer at the LIENVOY listening

post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban and Satellite Em-

bassies in anticipation of possible coverage.

The Station inmediately

disconnected all of the unilateral telephone taps on these Embassies so

~thãt they would not be discovered when the Mexicans hooked up their

taps. The Mexicans)soon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five

Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav

line.

At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of

conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume

for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,

full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

C000161

SECRET SENSITIE

10

---

## Page 10

14-0,0000

OR BETEL

ir a language other

than Spanish or English were taken to another location

for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-

tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the translations

usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation..

As soon as the Station learned that an American identifying him-

self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the

Station started screening all photographs. However, here again, there

was a backlog because the photographs were picked up three times a week

• but those picked up were usually for dates a few days before since the

technician who was processing the film, did so on a night-time basis.

Further, photographs were not made initially until a complete roll of

film was used. Later this was changed and the operator cleared the camera

at the end of each day regardless of amount of unused film remaining.

The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to

photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with

foreign license plates. Human

error did occur but generally the agents

were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated

equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed niechanical dif-

ficulties.

oswald cane to the REPRODUCTION, PROUBADED

from a tap of the Soviet line.. It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris

C000162

SEGRET SENSITINE

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

ISECRET.

1.

10 res 77

Source:

Notes made by A. Guodpasture

for John Leader, IG Staff

Subject:

Background

on riexico Station Support Assets

(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies)

1. Unilateral) coverage.

From the time the

(April 1947) (by Bill Doyle) until ar

Scott as COS in 1956, Charles

Anderson III (still in LA/HQ) had developed a support apparatus to in

exploit leads from the Soviet Enbassy. This unbrella type project (LIFEAT).

consisted of multi line phone taps, three photo sites, a mobile surveillance

tean and a nail intercept operation.

a Fhone taps were placed lay an employee de li teleptone company

who was handled by David WILSTED (pseudo)

The number of lines

tapped was linted by availability.of a listening post nearoy

(since the taps were not rade in the main

central) and English/

Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Czech, etc) transcribers. Generally

these agents (mostly Mexican or Mexican American) were related

(which the station at that time felt ias good security in that

if they talked about shop, they would talk to each other.)

b. Three photo sites were handled by Arderson with the help

of Harry Wahoney (retired, living in Chicago) and IDY ISD

people checking the best type of carera, film, and concealment

devices.

These had sub-cripts under LIFEAT (LINITED, LILYRIC,

and LICALLA). LIMITED vas a fixed site bang opposite across

the street from the front gate of the Soviet Erioassy. which had

both a vehicle and foot entrance. The Soviet gate was on the

NorthWest corner. of their compound and LIMITED was diagonally.

across a double barrelled street on the Southeast

ISECRET

129989 65 140011645

C600164

JFK-0.56

Copy lofT

SECRET

A-3)

13

---

## Page 12

14-00000

that block.

LIMITED was the first bese ad it operaied

strictly on an

eerinental besis in the early stages. I trink the flexi Station bought

one storey

this property (a/Sjanish Colorial stone house) through LINOUSINE (check to

be sure). Later this house began to fall apart. This base was closed

when

the Station got word thet the photo of "uniden nan" was being

releasea

to the

puclic by the Warren Connission. The photo operators were noved to another apt

nearby. The property was sold (under an operational agreement with LIMOUSINE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment blding to be built

on this site). LILYRIC was planned es an alternat

base to LIMITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check)

on

ine side of the street

as LIMITED but in the middle of the block Sgi

It had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Enbassy.

gents in LIMITED and LILVRIC (both

Mexican fanilies) as far as we knew

ot acquainted with each other.

LILYRIC was a rented apartnent

the third photo site, was located

in one of a row of. four hous

he South side of the Soviet Embassy compound

which the Mexico Station

sed in about 1958 (check date), also using

LIMOUSINE as the purchaser (check). This site overlooked the back garden of

the Soviet Imbassy compound. The purpose of this operation was to get good

identification photographs of the Soviet personnel (uno at that time vere largely

unidentified in lexico Station records). The three photo sites vere handled by

(Ranon Alvarez (Mexican citizen of U.S. nother who taught elerentary level at

(the American School). (Ranon) collected the film goldieude

akim from LINITED

and LILYRIC three tines a week. liis sister!s husband, (Carlos (Mexican doctor)}

developed and printed the film into &xlo contact print strips. The master alan

was for LIGALLA film to ie processed inside, ISD man from 1957 to 1959 (Harper)

(Holt - resigned) could not handle the volume and as the unprocessed film began

to accumulate, the inside CD (lahoney) became- disgusted and took the

film out

for Ramon 's brother-in-law to process (probably early 1959). Thus Ramon became

the handler for all three photo

bases.

A sensitive staff D monitoring operation

ISENET

0000165

14.

---

## Page 13

14-00000

-3

SECRET.

was run out of another one of these houses (crynt for the four houses was

LIUST, 1, oto). This was hadled by Glen MIDDa! (outside ISD officor)

and

Wahoney using HQ TDY teams for monitoring. This operation was also separate

from LICALLA.

The two houses in between vere rented to unsusrecting tenants.

¡Co lobile surveillance ves developed by Anderson and later placed

under liahoney and Joseph Sancho. This

team consisted of a half

dozen or so agents who used three to four late model cars aná

panel truck (which could be used on stake outs for

The plan was to activate this group by radio

photo covera e).

ITED BASE)

Soviet

when someone of interest left the/Embas;

until they made

their meetings.

and stay with.

them

ents knew about the INITED

BASE because they had LIlITED

This worked fairly well

for identification purposes..

Bout the middle of 1958 (check date)

when one of the

ce agents

got too close to his target and

was arrested by

exican transit police and turned over to the

lexican Secret Service. By the time the Station could arrange through

a cleared attorney to bail him out (Juad Austin of the Goodrich,

Little and Riquelme firm), the agent: had identified Sancho (who was

evacuated across the border at Nogales by Bob Shaw) and the inside----

phone number of Mahoney (who was subsequently replaced by Louis

Puckett). As a result of this flap, the LIFEAT project was broken

up into several others. The agents were not changed but were given

new crypts. /Estancona ard (Peggy Haggard) replaced Anderson in handling

the unflaterall phone taps. Pickett replaced lahoney and handled the

surveillance team (LIENTRAF) and the photo bases through Remon.

d. LIBIGHT was the crypt used for a unilateral (originally) mail

Intercept handled by Charlie Anderson III, (The agent (Mexican) had

(a seni official status and arranged to obtain selected letters fron

"SECRET

0000166

15

---

## Page 14

14-00000

Ca sub-agent in the vostal system (I think at the airport

were Later use st, dovert Foldamn, end ilon ihite.

Ilis

case officers

2. LIaison coverage

was unreliable and insecure as characterized

by the nature

of the l'exican services, at that tire. Tre lexican DES (Direction of Federal

"Security) with which we dealt was a hip pocket

group run out of the ministry

Of Gov ranent.

This Ministry spent a major part of its time

entrol off

[foreigners and colitical investications. Their azents

garous, venal,

corrupt extortionists. (Robert Melberg established

with one of them

(Levine -De Leon (later LIFIRE group) in about

19

He gave them some

training la group of about five surveilla

in

travel control working

_the airport. as vell as file searches

es

fron DES Hatrs) where the files

vere poorly organized and

often

cate..

How and then, however, sore useful

infornation las developed but itocould not be decended upon. (Melbergiwas

replaced by Phil Roettinger. (resigned and remained in Mexico), Mahoney, Thomas

Hazlitt, ard Rovert Feldmann Ane After The Ether)

During 1958, Win Scott met socially some of the chronies of the

Mexican Prestdent elect, Adolfo Lopez liateos.

During this period, the U.S.

Ambassador Rovert C. Hill (reflecting the policy of then See State J.F. Dulles)

was energetic in organizing groups to "fight communism".

One of these seeds

grew into a proposal

Miguel Alenan (jr. son of forner lexi' President), acting

for Lopez lateos, made to Win Scott for a joint telephone tap operetion., This

project (LIENVOY) went through about four distressing years of a shakedown.

The Mexican in control (LIELEGANT) was inexperienced, old, and greedy. His

(LINVOY-2)

was a masterpiece of deceit and corruption. LIELEGAT also

ranipulated control over

the

principal agent of LIBIGHI (rail intercept. The

first case officer was Alfonso

Spera inside with Turner Smith (retired) outside

and John

(TSD training

officer for surveillance and head of the listening

post where thirty telechone lines would connect as vell as a transcription roon

LSECRETI

0000167

16

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET

staffed i lie ican arny ofricers?) Initielle the station tried to met every

demand made by the Mericans.

Both Snith and John hed Jarguage difficulties and

personal problems associated with being outside the station 50 that the Mexicans

Were virtually uncontrollable, spendi: & money as

they pleased, squirrelling away

equipment at enornous costs, and neglecting their part of the bargain in the

production of transcripts or placing taps which we wanted

Spera was repiaced

by Jack Brady no found himself in the sane pincer

nt of having Scott

approve a request by LIELEGAT that Brady had

Finally when the cost became exhorbitant

the project was revarped. Smith,and J

by a ISD officer, Charles Flick,

Brady was reassi

the equipnent./ Scott took ov

He designated Ann Goodpas

of the listening post,

in by the son, LIENVOY-?

was little to show for it,

turned

to the U.S. and were replaced

put inside the listening post to naintain

other duties rendirg a transfer:

project as case officer meeting with LIELEGANT.

meet datapg with Flieor routine supervision

ng up transcripts and tapes. Goodpasture had no

dealingswith the Vexicans except when Scott was ill or out of town. Generally,

all decisions were made by Scott. This was about late 1961..

3. "y memory is a little vague about the origins of the Cuban Embassy but I.

think the staff first developed fron a pro-Castro group celebrating on New

Years eve 1959. As I recall, it was a rakeshift arrangement of volunteers

through most of 1960 and El with Iom Hazlitt producing voluminous reports on

their actirities and recruitiig agents right and left anong Cuban nationals in

Kexico City.

4. Personnel assignments. Of interest to us now is who was in lexico during

the period prior to Oswald's visit and the subsequent investigation by the

Warren Connission. To deternine who was there and what they were doing I

have gro:ped persons together

chronologically with areas of their assignment

as the

covering from 1950) to 1969 so

that booties nanes pop up, one can tell what

litch

period they were in lexico and

" their assignments, at the time.

SECRET,

C000168

---

## Page 16

14-00000

_SECRET.

8/50-6/69

COS

DCOS

Winston M. Scott (deceased)

7/56 - 7/58

Alfonso Rodriguez, (retired)

10/58 - 12/62 Warren Dean (retired)

6/63 - 9/65

Man White (retired) -

10/65 - 1969 (Stanley Watson (retired in Mexico

COVERT ACTION

Prior to 19542 Howard Hunt (retired)

(12/54) - 7/557 Williard Hill) (resigned)

12/56 - 9/62

Stannard Short (retired)

Chief

9/61 - 3/64

David Phillips C/ (retired) ~

8/62 - 9/64

Gunner Becknan Asst -

2/64 - 6/65

James Flannery C/(retired) -

9/64 - 11/66

Harold Dalghren Asst

10/65 - 1967 (Stanley Watson C/ (retired) -

66

Don Heath?

PROMBITED

68 -

71: (Joseph SmithC (retired in

RODUCHION

CUBA OPERATIONS

56 - 4/62 Thomas Hazlitt Chi

2/60 - 4/62 (Jack Stewart) (re

Costa Rica

4/63 - 4/65 Bob Shaw Chief -

9/63 - 7/65 (Ray Swider~

10/63 - 5/65 Lorna Kackay (itead)

8/66 - 6/65 David Phillips Chief (retirod)

9/65

- 19/68 Joseph Piccolo.

10/65. - 12/07 (Peyey Maggara

SOVIET TARGET

6/57 - 10/59 Louise Iyon Cratered!

:6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Marheine (ps)

9/59- 8/65 (Herbert Manell) Chief-

(retired ?)

59 - 8/65 (Barbara lanell.

Outside CO

64 - 766 - Hilliam Brigl

4/65 - 11/67 Cynthia Fausmann

6/65 - 7/67 Alice Pittinger

7/65 - 4/69 Paul Dillon Chief

SOVIET TPANSCRIDERS

6/56 - 8/53 Morris Gordon (resigned)

6/58 - 6/63 George Misko -

6/63 - 70

Boris Tarasoif (retired in Mexico) -

SECRET.

0000169

18

---

## Page 17

14-00000

-

SUPPORT ASSETS

(Unilateral phono

taps

(1949 - 1961

Charles Anderson III Chief

(4/55) - 4/60 (Peccy laggord) Asst

7/56 - 1162

Frank Estancona Chief

2/60 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan

9/64 - 12/67 Michael Farmer

49-71)? Outside CO

David WILSTED (ps),

retired in Mexico

(Unilateral photo Cubans

PROMIBITED

6/59 - 4/64

Robert Zambernardi

(resigned l'exico))

7/59 - 6/62

(Richard Spathar TSD) (retired)

(Unilateral photo Soviets

{3/54)-4/59

Harry T. Mahoney

REPRODUCTION

56 -

(retired Chicago)

68

Outside Agent

Ramon

Alvarez (resigned in Mexico)

5/57 - 8/61

A. Goodpasture (alternate. 00 -

and internal routing)

6/58 - 6/63

Louis D. Puckett (retired)

6/63 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan - Robert H .6168

Feld marin

65 - 66

Willian Bright

813)63.

raut

Liaison phone taps

1959 - 1969

Winston Scott (deceased)

1959 - 1960

Alfonso Spera

(retired)

1959 - 1960 (Turner Smith (outside, now retired)

1959 - 1960

John

(Training rept resigned)

1960- 1961

John Brady (retired)

1962 - 1968

A. Goodpasture

1961 - 1971 (Charles Flick) (outside TSD Staff Azent - retired) -

Lizison - surveillance

(Erior 1954)

Robert kelberg) (retired)

3/54 - 4/59

Harry lahoney

(retired)

4/59 - 1961

Thomas Hazlitt

12/62 - 9/67 Robert Feldinann (u Fired)

TSD Outside unit

4/58 - 12/03

6/59-4/64

Glen Hidden (retired)

Joseph. 1. Resigno (ps) Unit blown and closed down

0000170

19

---

## Page 18

14-00000

SECRET

About nid 1962 (check date) LINVoy outside lexi rept asled

-for the telephone nunbers of the Soviet, Cuban, and Satellite Embassies.

with tris forewarning, LIFTAI (unilateral coverage) was disconnected.

However

as I recall, the Mexicans connected 5 Cuban lines, 5 Soviet lines, 3 Czech,

2 Folish, and I Yugoslav line. The baserouse listening post had a live

monitor tico made short summaries of interesting conver

for a daily

resume which was received each day arourd 8 a..

to get to Scott before 9.a.m.) Later (when tk

full transcripts were typed and passed

there was usually a time lag of a

Russian or another languege b

post the day after the tr

by Flick to Goodpasture

was completely recorded)

station in the same way, however,

Those transcripts which red

banish or English went out of the listening

È (of other conversations on the reel)was

typed. These reels were taken to another location where they were translated

and typed. In the case of the Russian translations, Boris Tarasoff usually ran

about a week behind the date of the conversation because of the volume of

Russian conversations among the embers of the Soviet Exbassy. During this

period (fall of 1963) the reels were probably being brought into the station

and carried to Boris by one of the people fron the Soviet Section or they may

have been carried to him by flick but I think I brought the reel in and gave

it to Herbert Manell to take to Boris. Herbert Manell and his wife Barbara:

handled all of the processiug of Soviet transcripts. ly job involved screening

the photographs as soon as we learned trat the man calling himself Oswald was

probably an American.

However, here again there was a backlag because the

photos were picked up three tines a week but the ones ricked up were usually

for dates a few days previously because the doctor procesed the film on a

night time basis. Fhotographs were made usually until one roll was used but

later we got it changed to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the

"ter

operators, cleared the camera each day whether there was annixay a full

roll of filn exposed.

Instructions were to cover office hours, photograph each

0000171

20

1:

---

## Page 19

14-00000

_ 4- BERET

new Soviet and fanily, all foreigners and foreign licence plates.

Finan

error did occur but generally the agents were conscientious.

The Cuban

embassy coverage had more sophisticatea equipient (a pulse ca. era) but it

frequently develoced nechanical difficulties. Bob Zambarnardi and Spathar

(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorna l'acilay screened

the film inside the station.

I am certain thet the Oswald call came

attention from the

Soviet line.: It was picked up and taken to Bo

the caller

was trying to speak Russian.

a translation because

compare tre photographs with the ty

elay was caused by waiting to

There were no copies of

transcriots every made in lang

her than Spanish or English because Win

Scott could read only thos

anguages ard ke personally screened the

transcripts for operational leads he wanted pursued.

CC00172

21

---

## Page 20

14-00000

14-00000

PROMIBITED

REPRODUCE!

(4) -J0r Emb gate

1- LIMITED

LILYRIC

LICALLA

Phate Bases

0000173

22

SECRET.

---

## Page 21

14-00000

-SEGRET

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

TUESDAY

1th OCTOBEN 1963

Covergga: 900 to 1900

Log Fil 144

20 Laxp

Vaather 1/100

Camera Setting 3,5-2.5'

1 1251 ZURY platican con KAZ en el jardin

2 l l l l l s "n"1 0011"!"

18 p0 10 18 1810

#/84258968986836ss689685888958%898

WEDNESDAY 2 OCTOBER 1963

S8%868%8%86588S689S9S0&68986887

Coverage: 900 to 1900

:3 i1139 ANOV

out UNN a Norte por Tacubaya-Daspide

DD

4 "! ""

le«""0 l l 10 I 00 D 11 I l0 10 's0 10

5 1150 UMM.

.6 1203 LEON

ii ";

: in': QURY de Orionte por

ou a Norto por Paubava d ror a,

Chev

375

"1 ""

r0 1010 11

verdo (entr81141)

71033 DF

contepec de Falcox

372

88ааа

89

1. l0 l0 1l 19 d0 88 l0 ll de 19 se d0 po

B 1216 UMM

:in de Sur por

de

camionota Chev (sal181218). 52137. DF

9

1218 U-A M

in de Sun

Tacubaya

10

P $10

' 10 19

l Miesule

10-167

1222 U AM

out a Norto por Tacubaya

12

T..181

вl8 еc0'o8l1s0f vs i піо В ВгІ0.00'0

13""

1810 1018 10 10•10 80 19

14 1248 VAZQUEZ out a Norto por Tacubaya

15 ' ''' '0 l is 00. n n.

16 1259 ТІРО

.out a Norte por Tacubaya de Chev (entró 1218)

D 167

THURSDAY 3 Ocdober 1963

171200 U M HH

Doverage: 900 to

1900

18 1204 U M W

19% 09 00 0000

ins de Norte por Tacubaya

out a Norte por Tacubaya en Taxi

8888808e opo10 s8 s0 ff s0 '0 I088 0010

8882 DF

1r 11

20 1213 U NM

in de Sur por Tacabaya

21 122? UMM

out a sur por Tacubaya

0000174

JFK #+056

CoPy 10f7

SECRET

SEenE.

---

## Page 22

14-00000

(CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAMA

-RELEASE IN FULL

1999

27 September 1903, Sovict Embassy Chancory 15-61-55

Item 295, page 3

At 1626 hours, A Soviet calls from the Soviet Embassy Chancery

to the Cuban Consulate and asks for Sylvia DURAN. He asks

DURAN if the american has been there.

DURAN: Yes, he is still here.

SOVIET:

to the letters that he showed them from the (Soviet)

Consulate in Washington, he wants to go to the USSR to stay

a long time with his wife who is Russian, but also the

answer had not been received (by him) regarding his problem.

That accordingly these transactions take 4 or 5 months but

without prior approval from the USSR, they have to request

and even then, they could not issug the lisa here (in Mexico

City) without asking Washington.

(the American),

showed him a letpe

which he (the

in favor of Cuba

and said that the Cubans could

Ye him the visa without

the Russian visa and now the

"doesn't know what to do

with him, because he has to

Egfor the answer from

Washington.

DURAN:

..with them also, becau

E problem with him (the Anerican)

is that he doesn't kp

one in Cuba and in that case

is very difficult.

vo

him a visa, because he was

thinking of proce

his visa, because he knew it was

going to take

ime waiting for the Russian visa in

Cuba, and the

to the USSR.

SOVIET:

.. that the

Is that if his (the American) wife were

now in Wash

son (and) going to receive the visa right now

or the permission from the USSR to return to her country, (if)

she is going to receive her visa in Washington, then having

this visa, she can communicate to whatever place, this

permission; for example, here or in any other place (he) can

receive it, but right now they do not have them.

DURAN:

..certainly and neither can (the Cubans) give him a letter

because they do not know if the visa will be approved.

SOVIET:

They can only give the visa according to instructions.

DURAN:

Then that is what she will put on his application.

SOVIET:

Neither can I give him any letter of recommendation because

I don't know him and pardon me for bothering you.

DURAN: It was no bother, thank you very much..

0000175

DIT

JFK#Ö56

Copylof?

SA. GANT

---

## Page 23

14-00000

14-00000

27 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Consulato 15-60-55

Item 74, page 2

An unidentified man (speaking Spanish) calls the Soviet Embassy

Consulate at 1037 hours and asks for the Consul. He is told that

the Consul is not there. The unidentified man asked what is needed

to get visas. to go to Odessa. He is told to call back at 1130 hours.

Item 137, page 2

At 1235 hours a man named ALATRISTE (not a Soviet) fron inside the

Soviet Embassy Consulate calls out to number 45-37-72 (Colonial

America, probably a pension or hotel but number not listed in the

telephone directory) and speaks with a man named SAN ROMAN.

ALATRISTE says that he is in the Russian Embassy and they need to

know what day the boat "KALONIA" will arrive in Odessa.

Soviets will also need copies of the passenger manif

(One concludes that ALATRISTE and SAN ROMAN

Pring representatives

for the boat "KALONIA", and needed routine

isa antormation.

First

Mcall was de to the first listinent

te

Soviet Embassy in the

Mexican telephone directory (whiss

out to be the Military Attache).

They got the phone number

Consulate and the address. After

making a call to the Cope

Ild®

learning that it would not be open

until 1130 hours, ALA

it to the address to get the needed

information.)

• Item 395, pages 7 and 8

Just after 1600 hours, the Soviet Consulate received a call from the

Cuban Consulate (Sylvia DURAN) who said she had there a U.S. citizen

who had requested a transit visa to Cuba because he is going to the

USSR. DURAN wants to know with whom he spoke at the Soviet Embassy

because she sent him over to them telling him that if the Soviets

approved the visa then the Cubans would give him one without anything

more, advising the (Department of) Inmigration in Cuba. She wants

to know with whom he spoke because he says that he doesn't know

either with what person and who told him that certainly there would

be no problem. The Soviet asks DURAN to wait a minute. After a

short wait DURAN explains the same thing to another Soviet. This

Soviet tells her to leave her telephone (number) and her name and

someone will return the call. DURAN gives her nane and telephone

number 11-28-4? then says as a personal thing, she has moved and

has not advised them of a change of äddress so

will not receive their

Bulletin and can give it to them now. The Soviet asks her to call

KOUKHARENKO in order to change that address and asks for the name

of the (Cuban) Cultural Attache. DURAN says it is Teresa PROENZA

whose number is 14-13-26. The Soviet thanks her.

G000176

2

---

## Page 24

14-00000

-81

ROUTING

0.

, DIRECTOP

ROM.

• MEXICO CITY

ACTION, WH 8

, Cl, C1/OPS, C1/IC Z, FI, SR 7, RF, VR

2 1

31

IS GOETA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

XX

+79077432

MIR CITE MEXI 6453

LOTHPROME

ACC LIENVOY 1 OCT 6E, AMERICAN MALE WHO SPOKE RAKEN RUSSIAN

SATD HIS NAM

OSWALD (PHONETIC), STATED HE

AT, SOVEMS ON 28

SENT WHEN SPOKE WITH CONSUL WHOM HE RELIEVED REX

VAST INn".. SUPJ

XYALERIY VLADIMIPOVICH

ASKED SO! GUARD IVAN DRYEDKON WHO

IF THEPE

ANUTHING NEW RE TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON. ORYEDKOU

CHECKING SAID

NOTHING RECEIVED. YET, BUT REQUEST HAD PFEN

SENT

. HAVE PHOTOS MALE APPEARS PE AMERI

ATER I NE

SQUEMR

12.16

WURS, LEA''ING 100? ON I OCT. APPAR

35;

ATHELTIC BUILD,,

CIPCA § FEET, RECEDINS HAIRLINE

ING TOP. WORE KHAKIS

SORT SHIRT. SOURCE LIEMP

3. NO LOCAL DISSEM.

1:200-5-41

•CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON_

16 APR

1976

ELS@IMPDET CL BYSIZZOS

Hut 6534, 15 Oct.

Requested pouch has camell,

Document Numor 1A

33 POTY

Pár FOlA Povizir on APR 1976

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRCHICITED

101-289248

1Q6t63

Copy No.

0000177

1471

Copy lof T

JFK #056

SECRET

---

## Page 25

14-00000

ORIG.:

EXT.:

, DISTR.:

-EADILLINGER

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 8 OCT 1963

Conmo: Chrono;

-Sor Contacts go 8-10-5

SECRET

CLASGIFICATION

FILE:

INITIALS

DIO.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY.

OPERATONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

DIR

INFO.

CITE MEXI

DA0Ù

NUMBER

ICIMPROVE

1.

ACC,

ETENVOS I OCT 63, AMERICAN MALE WHO SPOKE BROKEN RUSSIAN SAID HIS

NAME LEE OSWALD (PHONETIC), STATED HE AT SOVEMB ON 2& SEPT WHEN SPOKE WITH.

CONSUL WHOM HE BET, TEVED

BE VALERIY VLADIMIROVICI KOSTIKOV. SUBJ. ASKOD SOV'

GUARD IVAN OBVEDIGY WHO ANSWERED, IF THERE ANYTEN

WASHINGTON. OBVELROY UPON CHECKING SAID NOM

RE TELEGRAM TO 1:

VED YET, BUT REQUEST

HAD BOON SENT.

2. HAVE PHOTOS MALE APPEARS

LEAVOID 2222 ON 1 OCT.

AMERICAN ENTERING SOVENB 1216 HOURS,

NY AGE 35, ATHLETIC BUILD, CIRCA 6 FEET,, RECEDING

KHAKIS AND SPORT SHIRT.

SOURCE: LIOPTY.

HATREINE, BALDING

3. NO LOCAL

DUP OF

5 ..

originated. by

• 1. A. DILLENPER (P)

wife EF Herb mAnELI

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

VICCURT IS

RELEASING OFFICER

0000178

20471

---

## Page 26

14-00000

UNIT :

EX!

DATE :

BUSTOS: jEn

WH/ 3/Mexico

5940

1Q Oct 1963

CLASSIEED MESSAGE

O INDEX

O NO INDEX

H6-SECRI

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO

"TO

MEXICO CITY

ES COPY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CÖNFIWH 8

INSO CADDP, C1, C1/OPS,

R

TO.

MEXI

RES®

• FI: SR 7, RF, VR

-CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL CITE DIR

MAXI 6453 (IN 36017)*

_19-63

ROUTING

5

190 0ст 63 22 /B9:2

DEFERSES: CEN

ROUTINE

for FOIA Review on

74830

LES OSWALD WED CALLED SOVIME 1 OCT PROBABLY IDENTICAr

LIES HENRY OSHALD (201-239248) BORN 38 OCT 1939, NEV

RUSANG g

LOUISIANA, JORASE RADAR OPSRATOR IN UNITED STATE

NES

WHO DEFECTED TO ISSE IN OCT 2959. OSWALD IS

TEET TEN

INCHES, ONE HUNDRED SIXTY, FIVE POUNDS,

LIOR BROWN WAVY HAIR,

BLUS BYES.

2 оу 31 ост 1959 13 47

TROTO RENOUNCE HIS UNITED

STATES CITIZONSHIP TO THE

STATES EMB IN MOSCOW,

INDICATING HE HAD APPLIE

SOvIET CITIZENSHIP. ON I3 FEB

TEST US MOSCOW RECEIVE TAPE ME FRE SERIO

POSTHARKED MINSE ON FIVS TSB 1961 IN WHICH SUBJ INDICATED

HE DESIRED RETURN OP HIS US PPT AS WISHED TO RETURN TO USA

IF "WE COULD COME TO SOUS AGRESMENT CONCERNIVE THE DROPPING

OF ANY LEGAI, PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME!" ON 8 JULY ON WIS OWN

ELRZIMPDET CL BY 012.20%

CONDUCTED ON_

CASSIFICATION EXPAY 197S

INITIATIVS IS APPEARED AT THS IN WITH HIS WIFE TO SEE ABOUT

201-289248

HIS RETURN TO STATES. SUBJ STATED THAT. EE ACTUALLY HAD NEVER

APPLIED TOR SOVIET CITZZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLICATIDX AS l0 ICT 63

COORDINATING OFFICERS

OFF.ICE8

(CONTINUED)

ADORIT

utomatic

ading and

SUTHENTICATIA

classilication

IFFICE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

ES COPYA

0000179

3.0F71

---

## Page 27

14-00000

ORIGi:

UNIT

EXT

DATE :

TOM:

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO :

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

O INDEX

SECRET

& NO INDEX

*D'FILE IN CS FILE NO. *

See senstized The STA

Number

For stertle copy of this document,

12-62

ROUTING

DEFERREDi

ROUTINE

PAGE THO

INFO

CITE DIR

7 au

THAT TIME HAD BEEN TO REMAIN, IN USSR AND FOR TEMPC

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OUTCOME OF HIS RE

APPLICATION, ACCORDING TO OSTARD, CONTATA

CITIZENSEIP, OSWALD STATED THAT HAD B

13 JAN 1960 IN BELORUSSIAN RADIO

WHERE WORKED AS METAL WORKER

MARRIED ON 30 APRIL 1961

THIS!

F TO SOVIET

PLOYED SINCE

FACTORY IN MINSK

SEARCH SHOP.

OSwArD wAS

NA NIROLAEVNA PUSAKOVA A

DENTAL TECENICIAN BORA

JULY 1941 USSR:

NO HDQS TRACES

HE ATTENDTED ARRANGE FOR HIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE

COULD APPEAR AT EUB FOR VISA INTERVIEW.

HIS AMERICAN PPE

YAS RETURNED TO HIM. US EMB MOSCOY STATED TWENTY MONTHS

OF REALITISS OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

EFFECT ON OSWALD.

3. LATEST HDAS INFO HAS ODACID REPORT DATED' NAY 1962

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND

EOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT STATE

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD

TO USA.

(CONTINUED)

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASINO OFFICER"

Excludad lie

£S0F17

assilicition

1 OF 71 REPRODUCTION._

•COTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE. PROHIBITED.

6000180

AUTHENTLESTING

Copy Mo.

ASi

---

## Page 28

14-00000

Dal:

UNIT

•EXT

DATE

CHEM 155.601

17 10EX

O NO INDEX

[I FILE IN OS FILE NO.

FROM: DIRECTOR

• CONF :

-IINFO :

TO

DEFFRRES

ROUTINE

PAGE THREE

INFO

CITE DIR

.74830

4.

STATION SHOULD PASS INFO REE AND PARA ONE TO

TPELIDE, ODENVY, ODDATH, AND ODURGE LOCALLS.

INED FARAS,

IHO AND THREE ORIGINATES WITH ODACID.

REY AND POSSIBIS IDENTIFICATION BEING DiSSEMINATED

TO BOQS OF ODENVY, ODACID, ODOATE, AND ODURGE. PLS KEEP

DOS ADVISED ON ANY FURTHER CONTACTS OR POSITIVE D

TIEICATION

OF OSKALD.

done

• per

DiR

74673

WH CHT:

SUD OF MESSAGE

57 Tiliti

*According to LIENVOY I Oct

spoke broken Russian said

American

male who

(phonetis) stated he

name Jee Oswald

spoke with Consul

o Say Enb on

28 Sept

then

to Washington.

focussed tendiag a telegrai

Dissemination had

beeN

rade.

T.

KARAUESSLLL

ADDP

RELEASING OFFICER

SB/CI/A/Roll (in draft)

CI/ Liaison/ Roman (in draft)

C/NH/3

ET/SPG/EerteD (an draft)

WH/COPS

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GRCUp?

Excluded rectitomatic

tamitras. 38 and

declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED..

201-289248

J.G. BING

CHED

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

CC00181

5, 05

71

---

## Page 29

14-00000

CO. UNCLASS! FIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ION, Error designation, roof nomber, Yond

building)

1.

SCOTT

2.

WHITE.

ERNAL

¡E ONLY

CON

¡ENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

EXTENSION

SECRET

NO.

DIR 74830

DATE

OCT 1 1 1963

5545

i DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

COMMENTS (Number ooch comment lo show

from whom

to whom.

Dram a lina across column aflor ouch commonl.)

Hu for

hals.

• OSWALD

ODUCTION

10.

Tr.

i2.

13.,

14.

15/X/63

Paul NEW P-Lep

SCOTT 1516001

5.

FORM

3-02

610 UsE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

P-8573

SE

CRE

CONFIDENTIAL L

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

0000182

605.71

---

## Page 30

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION:

INFO:

DATE:

11 OCT 63

DEFERRED

ROUTI

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

SEARIN

FILE:

INITIALS

CLASSIFICATIO CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

INITIALS

PWO

1022292

1999,

5:0-8-10-6

• LEE HENRY OSWALD (201-289248) BORN,18 OCT. 1232

LOUISIANA FORMER-RADAR OPERATOR IN UNITED STATES MARINES

NEW ORLEANS,

WHO DEFECTED TO USSR IN ICT 1952,

OSWALD •IS FIVE FEET TEN

BLUE EYES.

ONE HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE POUNDS, LIGHT BROWN WAVY HAIR,

STATES CITIZENSHIP TO THE UNITE STATES

ON 31 OCT 1959 HE ATTEMPTED TO RENOUNCE

INDICATING HE HAD APPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP.

OSCUNITED

THE US EMB. MOSCOW RECEIVED AN UNDATED LETTER FROM OSWALD

ON 13 FEB

POSTMARKED MINSK ON FIVE FEB 1961 IN WHICH SUBJ INDICATED

"HE DESIRED RETURN OF HIS US PPT AS WISHED TO RETURN TO USA IF WE

COULD COME TO SOME AGREEMENT CONCERNING: THE DROPPI,

OF: ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME." SON & JULY

INITIATIVE HE APPEARED AT THE EMB WITH HIS WIF

TO. STATES. SUBJ STATED THAT HE ACTUA

ABOUT HIS

NEVER APPLIED

CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLI

THAT TIME HAD BEEN TO REMAIN IN

USSR AN

TOURIST VISA PENDING OUTCOME

EMPORARY EXTENSION

REQUEST.

APPLICATION TACCORDING TO OSWALD

TO SOVIET

CITIZENSHIP. -"OSWALD STATED THA

13 JAN 1960: IN BELORUSSIAN RAD

EN •EMPLOYED' SINCE Y

TV. FACTORY. IN

WHERE WORKED AS METAL WORKER

MARRIED ON 30-APRIL 1951 TO MA

SEARCH

OSWALD WAS

NA NIKOLAEVNA PUSAKOVA A

DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN 17. JULY 1941 USSR.

NO HDQS TRACES.

HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE

COULD APPEAR-AT EMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW.

HIS AMERICAN PPT

WAS RETURNED TO HIM. ÷ US EMB MOSCOW STATED TWENTY MONTHS

OF REALITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

ON OSWALD•

LATEST HDQS INFO WAS ODACID REPORT DATED MAY 19,62

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND

BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT STATE

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD

TO USA.

24 Jild

7 yearn

7-21

TWO AND

TRE AND THREZ ORIGINATES WITH ODACID.

(CONT PAGE TWO?

INFO PARAS

ESGIFICATION

INCOMING

0000183

70F71

---

## Page 31

14-00000

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

DEFERREO

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

CLASSIFICATION

NITIALS

OTG

INITIALS

INFO

INCOMING NUMSEN

CITE

PAGE TWO DIR 74830--IN 5945

"=5.

REF"AND POSSIBLE IDENTIFICATION BEING DISSEMINATED

ODOATH, AND ODURGE.

HORS ADVISED ON ANY FURTHER CONTACTS OR POSITIVE LSENTEFICATION

OF

OSWALD.

HUMBER

END OF

...MSG

DUCTION

PROMIBITED

BEY

11/16027

CASTATION

INCOMING

0000184

---

## Page 32

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL'

1999

CLÄSSIFIED MESSAGE

16103

TO

I DIRECTOR

FROM • MEXICO CITY

ACTION,

WH 8

E3 COPVi

INFO

ADDP, GI, CH/OPS, GI/SP, FI, SR 7, RF, VR

_ On run as 15 Nov

I. a SiT 1517302

TiP CITE MEXI 8534

LCI PROVE

PÜF DIR 74939

-LS POUCH PHOTO OSWALD.

ROUTING

15

61

ODUCTION PROS

150C763 IN 4035 T

C/S COMMENT: *ATTEMPTS OF LEE OSWALD' AND WIFE TO REENTER U.S.

0000185

Document Number

8-4

FOIA Roviouton APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON.

1 6 APR 1915

ZIMPDET CL BY O/ 2208

D: 200.5-41

.....

63. Casy

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

201-289.248

1s cute7

Copy No.

---

## Page 33

14-00000

PRIG.:

XT.?

"STR.:

хожк

DIR

•JEGESTETNER

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 15 OCT 1963

-Comno; Chrono;

-Lee Henry Oswald

(Now P")

SEGRIT

CLASSIFICATION

• FILE:

INITIALS

OTG.

DEFERRED

NUMBER

INITIALS

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INFO.

CITE.

MEXI

ICEIPROVE

REP;" DIR 74830

PIS POUCH PHOTO OSWALD.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE I' FULL

1999

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ДоситоїХ фістният

1373=489

HOV. 1977

SAMEAS

8-4

NUMBET

6534

GFGESTETNER

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

ABONDI

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

0000186

WCCURTIS

RELEASING OFFICER

103F 11

---

## Page 34

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

25 october 190;

i HORANIA FOR

: "Tha ditassador

732M

.: WInston i. Jectt

552535 Ambassador Neritio o, x

Le CUALD/Contack rt. ta. 9211e6 2u23s1

міТіліі

1. TUS falloMirE inaTacion bas recaiTed. Bm & UsUalIT Vallable 112

intrenelt. contitita sairce:

On 1 Ectosco 1965;

tho soviet decasay soù identified hinsali an Lou OSHALD.

Inta offsca: 2a

teradaod tint OWD bad boen ut the seriet luchany ch 25 septeaber 1555 ani

Sacrica, i1 onic to In 11 the borat ibarry bed recalte a rorly Im

2. Cur jeacuastera bas Iniasssd 25 t2

Identical itts Leg Feney OSSALa, COra es

Loilaisna, l formes rular operator lo tho

to tica Soriat lidon la Detador 1959

10. secatreda

55 2959 10 Ser Orlesia,

Turine corpa uno delectal

sma Intarst1a3 0n thli natter

16531

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

C518 - To intersador

CONDUCTED ON_

1 6 AYK

1Y

LEIBRio lO POlitical AttriFI

EL&ZIMPDET CL BYC1Z205

RESIDA! SECITA UTICET - FLEAN ISTURN IU INE SUS MUER.

5

156/063

CC

772477 1806288

085217

188814

thu

Citt RD. (2.3.5)1

САЗЦ СЯ (11)

859 (87

Lee Henry OS:ALD P-

- 50-2-4-7

- Liaison with Lezal Attache

Finison with Naval Attache

9.5

Document Numbel

for FOlA Review on APR 1976

RECORD COPY

7*-1.919

16 ОСТ.

63

501-289241

•o menorandun to Legal Attache on &

notober 1063; however, note menorandum

to US Ambassador (dated 16 October)

2150

included Legal Attache in distri-

bution..

0000187

---

## Page 35

14-00000

ALISHED MESSAGE CO

walng notion 10

authorld. DE_ SENSITIZE

ROHFITT

• DIRECTOR

signed

MAOM s. MEXICO CITY

IS COPYI

R.0. #1 - Unit

ICTION: C/IAN 5 (COPY ISSUED TO DCI, 1810 22. NOV BP

If dostruction,

cite

DOP NOTIFIED AND

WHO NOW, DOCT, 001, 1009, /CS SO TE 5 150/32 , 20 one are coral nato

annropriato.

#: 44-2222297

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7014

N

22 NO 63H6 6781

REF:

A. UMEXI 6453(0N3 (0N36017)%

B. IDIR 74850=

C. 9, MEXI 6557 (IN 40357) *4

1. ACCORDING VOA BROADCAST HEARD AT

STATI

CARDING

PRESIDENT KENNEDY

_ ASSASSINATION, ONE LEE HO

AGE 24

HAS BEEN ARRESTED IN DALLAS POSSIBLY

NECTION

ASSASSINATION

OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

2. DIRECT HQS ATTENTION

3. REQUEST PRIORITY

PHOTO OSWALD SO THAT STATION

CAN CHECK ALL RECENT LIEMPTY COVERAGE FOR IDEN. FORWARDING

SOONEST COPIES OF ONLY VISITOR TO SOVEMB 28 OCT WHO COULD

EE IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD. CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

SECRET

RELEASE IN FULL

'Runnice: died

1999

CONDUCTED O

CLASSIFICATION PRE 197

FAZINGET CL BY 0/2205

S3 COPY.

201-289248

22 N0r6.3

D: 200-5-41

29

Document Number'

24-12

for FO!A Revieiv on APR 1976

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

0000188

12.0571

---

## Page 36

14-00000

ORIC.: G: F. GESTETNER

EXT.:

DISTR.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

COMMO

XXX CHRONO (DUMMY)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

DATF:

22 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE:

P-8593

TO

• DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

IMMEDIATE DIR.

INFO.

UNITIALO

DTO.

NUMBEN

INITIALS

CITE MEXI

8.001 k

RYBAT

ANT MEXI 6453'

B. : DIR 74830

C. MEXI 6534

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FÜLL

1999

1. ACCORDING VOA BROADCAST HEARD AT

AMON REGARDING

PRESIDENT KENNEDY ASSASSINATION ONE

AS BEEN

ARRESTED IN DALLAS POSSE

OF. PRESIDENT KENNEDY

H. OSWALD AGE 24

...:8

CONNECTION ASSASSINATION

2. DIRECI HOS ATTENT

REFS.

SO RECUSE PRIORI POUCH PHOTO OSWALD SO THAI STATION

CAN CHECK ALL RECENT LIEMPTY COVERAGE FORIDEN. FORWARDING

SOONEST COPIES OF ONLY VISITOR TO SOVEMB 28 OCT WHO COULD

BE IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD.

END OF MSG

DUI OF

29-12

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000189

13.05 2)

---

## Page 37

14-00000

sihttten

CLASSHED MESSAGE

i?.6?

ROUTIN.

UNIT

EXT

• C/HII 3

5613

O INDEX

D NO INDEX

DATE : "22 MOVemNer 1963 C FILE IN CS FILE NO.

5

FP.OM:

MEXICO CITY

DIRECTOR

DOC MICRO-ISER

DEC. 4- 19(4

ES CO EMICROFILMED

22 809 03

CONF:

C/WH 5

IÑFO :

DEFERREO CENT

ROUTINE

DDP, ADDP, C/C1; C/F| 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/05 2,

TO

INMEDIATE MEXI

INFO C

CIA SPECIAL COLDECTIONS 4 8 0.2

RELEASE N

ULL

THANKS TETS CONFECTION WAS ALSO NOTED HERE.

2.

TRUST YOU WILL BE ABLE USS ALL YOUR FACILITES IO FOLIOH AND RESORT

SOVIKT I

SE REACTION DURING THESE HOURS. PLEASE CARLS

SORL SUMMARIES.

ENDOr MESSAGE

LICER • STAN®

4U.2

C/S COMMENT

#* (IN 66781).

COmE

PHEY

1200 - 541:

Document Number a - 8.

for FOlA Review ori

APR: 1976

THIMAS H. KARAMESSINRS

• ADDP

RELEASING

REPRODUCTION BY OFFERE

Signed:

R:0. #1 - Unit CZORS

Note: • If dostruction.

cite.

reasons

and coordinate

11 appropriato.

201-289248

200-5-61

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED. ON 6 APR 1976

ELARAMPDET CL BY 012202

BS COPY

C22NON63

COOROINATING OFFICERS

C901p1

Exclules tram soromatiç

dowr.s

lassilication

THE ISSUING OFFICE-IS PROHIBITED.

JOEN H. WET

C/WH 3

AUTHENTICATING

'OFFICER:

Copy No.

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

0000190

14.0021

---

## Page 38

14-00000

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

23 NOV 63

CLASSIFICATION.

DEFERRED

PRIORITY

ROUTINE

OPERATIONAL

XXXX IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

DIG

INCOMING NUMBER

INITIALS

TO

28 2223427

IMMEDIATE MEXI

RYBAT :

INFO

6663

CITE

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

DIR 81,802

VREF. MEXI 97084%

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

1. THANKS• THIS CONNECTION WAS ALSO NOTED HERE..

2. TRUSI YOU WILL BE ABLE USE ALL YOUR FACILITIES

REPORT SOVIET EMBASSY ACTIVITY AND REACTION

SLOW AND

THESE HOURS.

PLEASE CABLE FULL

_SUMMARIES

END.

÷ OF

REPRODSCTION

DUP. or

26-8

23/00222

CLASSIFiCATION

INCOMING

0000191

15 07 2.1

---

## Page 39

14-00000

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM • MEXICO CITY

ES SOPY:

ACTION,

WH 8 (MR WHITTEN, WA & NIGHT SECURITY OFFICER NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT

2015,

22 NOV BP).

INFO : :

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, CI, CI/OPS, C//IC 2, FI, SR 7, SAS 8, OS 2; VR

SECRET 2388537

IMMEDTATE DIR CITE/DEXI TOIS

201-289248

REF: MEXI 7014 (IN 66781)*

1o MEXI STATION HAS PHOTOS SAME

TYPE WHO IS POSSIBLY OSWALD ENTERING

OCTOBER.

SEARCHING FOR POSSIBI

NTIFIED AMERICAN

EMBASSY ON 15

•PHOTO-DOCUMENTED ENTRY.

CUBAN EMBASSY OTHER DAYS.:

2.

ALSO ATTEMPIING ESPABLISH OSWALD ENTRY AND DEPARTURE.

22 NG: 631N668.46

MEXI.

C/S ,Comment: *Request priority pouch photo Oswald so that Station can chack all

reced coverage for ideztity. Forwarding soonest copies of only visitos to SovEmb.

23 Ort. who could be identical. wich Oswald.

0000192

201-20

1548

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON! 6 APR 1976

E/2 RIMPDET OL BY 012208

0: 200-5-41

27

- 10

Document Numbe

tor FOlA Review on AFR. 1976

63 8077

ES COPY:

22-11006.3

701-259248

PEAR

22 NGu63

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

160F71

---

## Page 40

14-00000

ORIG: JOHN.M.

UNIT :

EXT

C/WH/3

: 5613

DATE : 22 NOX 63

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

WHITTEN

D INDEX

O NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS FILE NO...

12-62

ROUTING

2

TO

.: MEXICO CITY

FROM:

DIRECTOR

19 COPY

Nor. 25

CONF:

WH 8

1 / 36:63

23 N0w:63

DEFERREDSECT.

ROUTINE

INFO :

XX

TO

D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, CI, CI/OPS, C1/IC 2, FI, SR 7, SAS 8,

(PRIX) MLSXI

INFO

date change

22 Norte 23 Nou

ClI

84821

RE MEXI 7019 (IN 66846)*

SEND STAFFER # ITH ALL PHOTOS OSW

HOS. ON NEXT

AVAILABLE FLIGHT. CALL MR.

1652

-6827 ON ARRIVAL.

END OF

C/S Comment: *Reference atta

Document Numbar

for FOlA Raviam opi

51

-18

APR 1976

D: 200-5-41

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON.

16 APR 1978

E3 MPDET CL BY C12208

swamallanesdom

JOHN M. WHITTEN by direction

THOMAS KARAMESSINES ADSERDINATING

OFFICERS

GROUP &

Exciuded from automatic

18

SECRET

downerading and

- declassificarion

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

0000193

201-289248

23 Ne 63.

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

Copy No..:

10F7i

---

## Page 41

14-00000

CRIS BIRCH Ö'NEAL

C/CI/SIG

EXT

5367

DATE:

23 NOV 63

FILE NO.

3

•TO

: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF; CI/SI

INFO : OS 2, VR

D/DCI, DDP; ADDP

OS. COPY

2300

3 C1/OPS, C1/1C:2, FI, SR 7, WH 7,

IMMEDIATE

TO

: IMMEDIATE MEXI

REF: MEXI 6453 (IN 36017)4

INFO

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 4 8 8 6

RELEASE IN FULL

IMPORTANT YOU REVIEW ALL LIENVOY TAPES AND

TRANSCRIPTS SINCE 27 SEPTEMBER TO LOCATE ALLA

LAL

POSSIBLE TINENT TO SUBJECT REE

DISPATCH SOONEST BY SPECIAL COURT

:000 crede de re

NECESSARY, FULL TRANSCRIPTS AND OF

TAFFER LE

MAL TAPES IF

AVAILABLE ALL PERTINENT MATI

ARE ORIGINAL TAPES

ABLE?

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

1'6 APR 1976

CONDUCTED ON_

ELSZIMPDET CL. BY O (2208

END OF MESSAGE

CS Comment:

*Reported that.on I October 63, an American male who said

his name was lee Oswald was at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City

Document Number 40-541

201-289248

pen se2

D: 200-5-41

for FOlA Review ori

APR 1976

200-5-41

23N0U63

ES COPY:

RELEASING OFFICER.

COORDINATING OFFICERS

Grou

Encluded (sen automalic

BEGRET

derla:sification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

JOHN'C. WHITTEN

WH/3

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No

0000194

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

1809 219

---

## Page 42

14-00000

÷1.41

DISTR:

-ACTION:

INFO:

CIASSIFIED MESSAGE

INITIALS

scient

• CLASSIFICATION

DTG

INITIALS

2317167

INFO

DATE: 23 NOV 63

FILE:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

PRIORITY

OPERITIONAL

X IlMEDIATE

INCOMING NUNUER

IMMEDIATE MEXI

MEXI 6453

6680

CITE

"DIR SUS

IMPORTANI.YOU REVIEW ALL LIENVOY TAPES AND TRANSCRIPTS

SINCE 27 SEPTEMBER TO LOCATE ALL MATERIAL POSSIBLY

&TINENT ®

TO SUBJECT, REF•

DECESSAR FULL TRANSCRIPTS-AND ORIGINAL TAP

3. DISPATCH SOONEST BY SPECTAL COURIERS

IF

AVATLABLE A PERTINENT MATERIAL.

430

ABR ORIGINAL TAPES AVAILAB

MESSAGE

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

DUP 0r

40-541

CHRONO DUMMY

23/18017

ECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

0000195

190911

---

## Page 43

14-00000

4351820 tuLa GE.

UNIT

EXT

DATE :

JOBIT M.

WHITTEN

C/Va 3

5613

O NO INDEX

23_MOVEMBER 1963 DO FILE IN CS ELE LO.

TO

MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

23 Mov 63

17232

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

CONF:

C/WH 5

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FT 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/OS 2,

TO

IMMEDIATE MAXI

INFO

CITE DIR

84888

I ODENVY SAYS THAT PHOTOS DE MAN UNTERINE SOVIRY BRASSY

DILLAS WERE IOT OF LIBE OSWALD, PRESUME MEXI HAS DOULLEN,

PROTOS AND IS ALSO CHECKING ALI, PERITTENT ONER PHOT

USHALD.

SAI SENT TO

1ED DATES OF THESE

POSSTELE SEOTS OF

Roas

END OF MES

DOC. MICRO. SER.

DEC 4

1974

MICROFILMED

Document Number

-38

39

for FOlA Review od: APR 1975

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

D: 200-5-41

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1975

EL§MIPDET CL BY 01 2208

RECORDS OFFICER STAUP

The following,

otion 1s

authorized:

цеж

Signed:

R.O. #1 - Uo1t CZOCS

Note:

If destriction,

olte

reasons

and coordinate

If appropriate.

C0PM

201-289248

200 541

23210063

W

VIa/COES

HOOD

RELENSING

OFFICER

0000196

COORDINATING OFFIÇERS..

GROUP 1

Excludes trem-stomatie

too. On

FIGRIN

*declassificatior

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

727-7

JOEN BI.

AUTHERTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 3Z003

20 69 7!

---

## Page 44

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

1 SECRET

ROUTING

4]

i DIRECTOR

AS COPT

-ROM !

iCTION,:

MEXICO CITY

CAN 5 (MR. WHITTEN, WH, NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1255 34 NOV 63 LAG)

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CT, C/F| 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/o5 2

2316592

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE NEXI 7023

23 To 63 WN67 1 08

LIENVOY.

CASEMENELA SPECIA AULSEE HORS

CABLES.

1. ON 28 SEP 63 SILVIA

POURAN CUBAN EMB CALLED SOLEASE IN FULL

CONSUL SAYING NORTHAMERICAN THERE WHO HAD BEEN SOV EMB AND WISH

SPEAX WITH CONSUL.

UNIDEN NORT HAMERICAN TOLD SOV CONSUL QUOTE

"I WAS IN YOUR EMB AND SPOKE TO. YOUR CONSUL. . I WAS JUST NOW AT

YOUR EMB AND THEY TOOX MY ADDRESS," SOV CONSUL SAYS "I

THAT" •

UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN SPEAKS RUSSIAN " I DID NOT

KNOW

'I WENT TÖ THE CUBAN EMB TO ASK THEM FOR MY

ADDRE

ELZIMADET CL BY SCOROS

CAUSE THEY

HAVE IT"• SOV CONSUL "WHY DONT YOU COME AGA

LEAVE YOUR

ADDRESS WITH US IT IS NOT FAR FROM CUBAN

UNIDEN

NORT HAMER ICAN "WELL, I'LL BE THERE

ONWAY.". MONITOR NOTES

UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN SPOKE. TERR

BARDLY RECOGNIZABLE

• RUSSIAN.

IN VIE

OSWALD IN SOV UNION AND FACT HE CLAIMED ON ! OCT

for FOlA Review oin] APR 1976

LIENVOY TO HAVE VISITED SOV EMB 28. SEP, SUBJECT'

PARA ONE PROBABLY

CONDUCTED ON

9401 6 APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION. REVIEW

Document Number

10-545

OSWALD. STATION UNABLE COMPARE VOICE AS FIRST TAPE ERASED. PRIOR

RECEIPT SECOND CALL.

(IN: 6678)

3.

PARA THREE MEXI 7014 DATE SHOULD BE ONE OCT 63.

SUBJECT VISITED SOVEMBA OCT BUT NOT RECORDER LIENVOY THAT DATE.

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS.

201-287248

MAXING EVERY EFFORT DEFERRANE OSALDS ACTIVITIES MEXICO OU 63

-SEGRET

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

+ 9975773)

Approved for Release

0000197

by the Central Intelligence Agency:

Date: 7/2003

21 0F 7)

---

## Page 45

14-00000

11. a

ORIG.:

EXT.:

DISTR.:

TO

R. B. RIGGS

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

CLASSIFI.999 SAGE

(+4)

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

CLASSIFICATION

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

XX

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

DTO.

DATE:

- 23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE:

Ф-8593

-

Silvia DURAN P-

DEALPI

INITIALS

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

CITE MEXI -7873R

LIENVOY

DUP OF

49-515

1.

ON 28 SEP 63 SILVIA DURAN CUBAN EMB CALLED SOV CONSUL

SAYING NORTHAMERICAN THERE WHO HAD BEEN SOV EMB, AND WISH

SPEAK WITH CONSUL, UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN TOI

CONSUL

QUOTE 'I WAS IN YOUR EMB AND SPOKE TO YOUR

I WAS

JUST NOW AT YOUR EMB AND THEY TOOK MY

RESS,".. SOV CONSUL

SAYS "I KNOW THAT." UNIDEN NORTH

DID NOI KNOW IT THEN. I WENT

'AN SPEAKS RUSSIAN "I

CUBAN EMB TO ASK. THEM FOR

MY ADDRESS BECAUSE THEY

" SOV CONSUL "WHY DONT YOU

COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WITH US IT IS NOT FAR FROM

CUBAN EMB." UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN "WELL, I'LL BE THERE

RIGHT AWAY," MONITOR NOTES UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN SPOKE

TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE RUSSIAN.

2. IN VIEW OSWALD IN SOV UNION AND FACT HE CLAIMED ON

1 OCT LIENVOY TO HAVE VISITED SOV EMB 28 SEP; SUBJECT PARA ONE

PROBABLY OSWALD. STATION UNABLE COMPARE VOICE AS FIRST TAPE

BASAX

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000198

---

## Page 46

14-00000

JRIG.!

XT.:

DISTR.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

Page 2.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CLASSIFICATION

SIMITIALO

INITIALS

DTO.

TO

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBER

INFO.

..CITE

ERASED PRIOR RECEIPT SECOND CALL.

NUIDER

=..

REPEAT ONE

3. PARA THREE MEXI 7014 SHOULD BE ONE/OCT 63. SAME SUBJECT

VISITED SOVEMB 4 OCT BUT NOT RECORDED LIENVOY THAT DATE.

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS.

RBR

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SEKET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

WCC

RELEASING OFFICER

0000199

23. 0F 71

---

## Page 47

14-00000

is;

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

-SECRET

• DIRECTOR

DOC. MICRO. SER

DEC 4

1974

MICROFILMED

_ROUTING

•ROM : MEXICO.CIT

CS CORIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

ICTION, C/SR 5.

MR. WHITTEN, WH AND MR. BAGLEY, SR NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: i605

23 NOV 63 WB

TRO: 061, 0/001, DOP, ADOP, G/C), C/C1/OS, C/T1, C/Ni 2, 0/05 2,. VR

#: +9382319117

RECORDS OFFICER STANP

IMMEDIATE DIR

23 Nov63 1N67170

#AJAT REDWOOD LCIMPROVE

Signed:

REF

A.

DIR 84837*

- Startr

B... DIR 84885 #

R. 0. #1 - Un1t <ZU2S

Note:

4.

Il destrurtion,

c.

•DIR 84886*

reasons and coo

1f appropriat

:l... "ARA I A REF A, STATION''S IMMEDIATE AN

CHECK INDICATES NO OTHER

LIKELY DEFINITTUI

FROST IXOY TRAKEI

SIDE MEXIL MOST RECENT

LILYRIC REPORTING 6 THRU I9 NOV

MOST IKOV AT SOV EMB EVERY

DAY. SNO LILYRIC REPORTING 9

DO 16-17 NOV.) WILL GET REPORTING

EARLY THIS AFTERNOON RE

UNDER LIEMÉRACE SURVEIL

ACTIVIT IES 22 NOV. PLACING KIM

2. PARA 2B REF A, NO RECENT UNUSUAL XGB AND SOKEME PERSONNEI

ACT IVIT IES 17. NOV TO. DATE:

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW.

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1976

3. WILL SATISFY ALL OTHER REF A REQUIREMENTS ASÉRZIMPDET CL BY 012.208

4.. REF B, IMMEDIATE AND: FROBABLY DEFINITIVE CHECK SHOWS NO OTHER

ALFERIEV TRAVEL. LILÝRIC REPORTING SHOWS ALFERIEV AT SOVEMB 6

for. FOlA Review on

APR 1975

THRU 19 NOV. (NO LILYRIC COVERAGE 9=10 AND 16-17 NOV.)

.5. COVERING ALFERIEV ACTIVIT IES SAME AS WITH KOSTIKOV. WILL

3

PLACE HIM UNDER LIRICE SURVEILLANCE ASAP.

201-289248

D: 200-5-4124

GS COPKI

200-5-411-

3201-305052

X320r6=

SECRET

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITER

Document Number

62

-24

Destas titted and Approved for Releas 00 00200

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

20 0F 21

---

## Page 48

14-00000

this dod

SOELASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 67170

_ PAGE 2

6: OTHER THAN INFO ALREADY SENT RE OSVALD'S. CONNECTION WITH SOV

AND CUBAN EMBS, NO OTKER INFO AVAILABLE. HOWEVER, STATION STAFF

COMBING ALL AVAILABLE MATERIALS.

7. STEFPING UP RECEIPT ALL INCOMING MATERIALS COVERING. SOVENE,

TRYING GET LIFEAT COVERAGE OF SWITCHBOARD OF APT BUILDING WHERE

RESIDE MIN KAZANI SEV, SUSPECT X69 RESIDENT KONSTANTINOV AND SUSPECT

GRU SHCHUCHKIN.. HAVING LIPAWN REPORT MOVEMENTS SIDOROV AND

MAKE SPECIAL EFFORT RE AUDIO OP AGAINST SID.

INCOMING LIFEAT ON

KGB KUZNET SOV WILL BE PROCESSED ASAP.

PROFABLE THAT OSWALD CONVERSATION LIENVOY, TAPES ERASED.

6

HOWEVER RECHECKING ALL UNERASED TAPES. LIENVOY CENTER. SEP CABLE

PROVIDES VERBAT IM TRANSCRIPTS.

C/S COMMENT:

*Requested information

Kostikov.

N PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION®

Valeriy Vladimirovich

0000201

(.00N

15 oF 71

---

## Page 49

14-00000

ORIG:

EXT.:

OISTR.:

10

-=*?

(44)

GOS G.F. GESTEINER

GLASSIFIED MESSAGE

COMMON

CHRONO (DUMMY

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CLASSIFICATION.

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

• INITIALS

DIO.

DATE: 23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE: <P-8593

KOSTIKOV P-

ALFERIEV P-

NUMDER

INITIAL.D

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

7022

CITE MEXI NUMBER

REF:

RYBAT REDWOOD LCIMPROVE

A. DIR 84837

B.

DIR 84885

C. DIR 84886

DIP.

0-62-241

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM®

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

PARA LA REF A, STATION'S IMMEDIATE

TKELY

DEFINITIVE CHECK INDICATES NO OTHER K

MEX, MOST RECENT LILYRIC REPOR

TRAVEL OUISIDE

THRU 19 NOV SHOWS

KOSTIKOV AT SOV EMB EVERY DI

YO LILYRIC REPORTING 9-10

AND 16-17 NOV.) WILL GET

KOSTIKOY ACTIVITIES 22

TING EARLY THIS AFTERNOON RE

PLACING HIM UNDER LIEMBRACE

SURVEILLANCE.

2. PARA 2B REE A, NO RECENT UNUSUAL KGB AND SOVEMB

PERSONNEL ACTIVITIES 17 NOV TO DATE..

3: WILL SATISFY ALL OTHER REF A REQUIREMENTS ASAP.

4.. REF B, IMMEDIATE AND PROBABLY DEFINITIVE CHECK SHOWS

NO OTHER ALFERIEV TRAVEL. LILYRIC REPORTING SHOWS ALFERIEV

AT SOVEMB 6 THRU 19 NOV CONDIKHNE EF GRY ERAGE 9-10 AND 16-17 NOV.) S

AUTHENTICATINO OFFICER.

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000202

200f 71

---

## Page 50

14-00000

The Attached document page 0000276:

is a

replacement page for 0000203.

0000203 is not to be destroyed or

taken

out of

the original package

that it is included in.

Document

0000276 may

be inserted in front

of document

0000203.

DISTR.:

DATE:

FILE:

TO

Page 2.

DEFERRED

OTG.

NUMBER

INITIALS

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERAT

IMA

INFO.

CITE

7024

NUMBER

5. COVERING. ALFERIEV ACTIVITIES SAME AS WITH KOSTIKOV•

WILL PLACE HIM UNDER LIRICE SURVEILLANCE ASAP. - :

6. OTHER THAN INFO ALREADY SENT RE OSWALD'S CONNECTION

WITH SOV AND CUBAN EMBS, NO OTHER INFO AVAILABLE.

HOWEVER,

STATION STAFF COMBING ALL AVAILABLE MATE

T. STEPPING UP RECEIPT ALL INCOMIN

MATERIALS COVERING

•SOVEMB, TRYING GET LIFEAT

E OF SWITCHBOARD OF APT.

BUILDING WHERE RESIDE

ZANTSEV, SUSPECI KGB RESIDENT

KONSTANTNOV AND SUSPECT GRU SHCHUCHKIN. HAVING LIPAWN REPORT

MOVEMENTS SIDOROV AND MAKE SPECIAL EFFORT RE AUDIO OP AGAINST

SI:. INCOMING LIFEAT ON KGB KUZNETSOV WILL BE PROCESSED ASAP..

8. PROBABLE THAT OSWALD CONVERSATION LIENVOY TAPES

ERASED, HOWEVER RECHECKING ALL UNERASED TAPES LIENVOY

CENTER. SEP CABLE PROVIDES VERBATIM TRANSCRIPTS.

END OF MSG

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTiEING OFFICER

0600276

RELEASING SEFICER

OUTGOING

---

## Page 51

14-00000

ORlE.:

EXT.

DISTR.:

Page 2.

DEFERPED

ROUTINE

CLISSIFIED MESSAGE

SPEREMY

CLASSIPICATION

•INITIALO

ĐTO.

INITIALO

DATE:

FILE:

TO

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBEN

INFO.

ERASED PRIOR RECEIPT SECOND CALL.

CITE

NUNGER

REPEAT ONE

3. PÄRA THREE MEXI 7014 SHOULD BE ONE/OCT 63. SAME SUBJECI

VISITED SOVEMB 4 OCI BUI NOT RECORDED LIENVOY THAT DATE.

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS.

NEXICO

END OF MSG

REPRODUCTION P

RBR

AUTHENTICATINO OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SOONET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

0000203

WCC

RELEASING OFFICER

20F71

---

## Page 52

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEE

ROUTING

DOC. MICRO

SER

TO

• DIRECTOR

CS COp

DEC. 4 1914

61

FROM • MEXICO CITY

ACTION;

MICROFILMED

MR WHITTEN; WH, MR. BALLEY, SR, AND NIGHT SECURITY OFFICE NOTIFIED

ND. COPY SLOTTED AT: 1700 23 NOV WB)

INFO DEI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/F| 2, G/SR 5BSdSA8s5AP/eSR BrAVo

XX

SECRET 2320347

The Pallow!

IMMEDIATE DIR GITE MEXI 7825

LIENVOY

CONDUCTED ON.

GLASSIFIEATOE APY Y978

Signed:

starte

RO. FI - UrI+ CHURS

,REF

DIR 84886

E/RAIMPDET CL BY 0/220?

23N0÷63 N 67 1 88

Note:

If desiration.

FOLLOWING FULL TRANSCRIPTS AVAILABLE.

reasons and coordinate

1l appropriate.

ON 28 SEPTEMBER 1963 LIENVOY REPORTED FOL: "ENTRADA MF DEL

LESSEL FACERIN

13057

"TET

CONSULADO DEL CUBA QUIEN DICE QUE ALLI EN. SU CONSULADO ESTA

UN

NORTEAMERICANO QUE ESTUVO ALLI EN LA EMBAJADADA RUSA.

-8

ESPERE UN MOMENTO.

MF. ES SILVIA DURAN Y HABLA IN

UN ALGUNA

PERSONA FUERA: Y COMENTA EN ESPANOL QUE LA PUSE

TELEFONO A

APARICIO Y LO APUNTA QUE ES EL 14 12 99%

A LE DICE SOBRE EL

CLUDADANO NORTEAMERICANO. Y QUE LES

ABLAR.

HE HABLA RUSO.

HD LE HABLA EN INGLES. " SILVI

AN ASKS NORTHAMERICAN "DO YOU

SPEÄK RUSSIAN?" "THEN WHY DONT, YOU TALK TO HIM?" NORTHAMERICAN

TAKES PHONE AND SAYS IN BORKEN RUSSIAN "I WAS IN

•YOUR EMBASSY AND

SPOKE TO YUOR CONSUL. JUST A MINUTE." MAN IN SOV EMB ASKS

NORIHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAI DOES HE WANT? NORTHAMERICAN:

to: FOlA Review on

AP.R 1976:

"PLEASE SPEAK RUSSIAN"• SOVIET: "WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT?" NORTH-

Document Number Ol- 550

AMERICAN: "I WAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY TOOK MY

ADDRESS. " SOVIET: "I KNOW THAI." NORTHAMERICAN: "I DID NOT KNOW

D: 200=5-41

201-289248

17201-740720

550

CS COPY:

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 15: PROHIBITED

23N0063

Copy No

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

0000204

28 0F.71

---

## Page 53

14-00000

CLASSIFIED' MESSAGE

• IN.

PAGE

I THEN. I WENT TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY TO ASK THEN FOR NY ADDRESS

ECAUSE THEY HAVE IT." SOVIET:

"WHY DONT YOU COME AGAIN AND LEAVE

OUR ADDRESS WITH US. IT IS NOT FAR FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY. ".

ORTHANERICAN: "WELL I'LL'BE THERE RIGHT AWAY." DOUGLAS J.

EINGLASS NOTED NORIHANERICAN SPOKE TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE

USSIAN.

• ON ONE OCTOBER 1963 AT 1045 HOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET EMB AND SAID

HELLO THIS IS/LEE OSWALD SPEAKING.

I WAS AT YOUR PLACE LAST

ATURDAY AND SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID THAT THEY'D

END A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGION SO I WANTED TO FIND OUT IF YOU HAVE

INYTHING NEW? BUT I DONT REMEMBER THE NAME OF THAT CONSUL. "

¡OVIET (EMBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOV): "KOSTIKOV: HE IS DARK."

10: "YES. MY NANE IS OSWALD." SOVIET: "JUST A MINUTE I'LL

IND OUT. THEY SAY THAT THEY HAVEN'T RECEIVED ANYTHIN

BEQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT BUT NOTHING HAS SE

10: "HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?" SOVIET: "YES THAY DO S

10: "AND WHAT..?" SOVIET HANGS -UP

US NECEIVED AS YET. "

1. DOUGLAS dO REINGLASS UHO DI

IPTIONS SAYS OSWALD IS

IDENTICAL WITH PERSON PARAN ONE

SAKING BROKEN RUSSIAN WHO CALLED

FROM CUBAN EMBASSY 28 SEPTEMBER TO SOVIET EMBASSY.

C'S Corument:" #Keguested Station review all LIENVOY (1) tapes and tenan

since 27 Sept, to locate pertinent information on Oswald.

0000205

(9T02

29 08 71

---

## Page 54

14-00000

30-9-1301

(14)

ORIG.:

R. B. RIGGS

EXT.:

NISTR.: • COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

DEFERRED

ROUTINE®

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

TO

IMVEDIATE DIR

INFO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILER P-8593

CLASSIFICATION

Silvia DURAN P-

INITIALO

DIO.

KOSTIKOV P-

NUMBEN

-CIA, HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999 ITE

MEXI. =7021

NUMAE

..RYBAT LIENVOY

DUP OT

609-

iry

REF: DIR 84886

1. FOLLOWING FULL TRANSCRIPIS AVAILABLE.

2. ON 28 SEPTEMBER I963 LIENVOY REPORTED

"ME DEL CONSULADO DEL. CUBA QUIEN DICE QUE

ESTA UN NORTEAMERICANO QUE ESTUVOY

RUSA, "UD QUE ESFERE UN MOMEN

NIRADA

SU CONSULADO

EN LA EMBAJADADA

ES SILVIA DURAN Y HABLA

INGLES CON' ALGUNA PERSOL

GERA Y COMENTA EN ESPAÑOL QUE

LA PUSIERON TELEFONO A APARICIO Y LO APUNTA QUE ES EL

14 12 99. SILVIA LE DICE SOBRE EL CIUDADANO NORTEAMERICANO Y

' QUE LES VA A HABLAR, HE HABLA RUSO. HD LE HABLA EN'INGLES. "

SILVIA DURAN ASKS NORTHAMERICAN "DO YOU SPEAK RUSSIAN?" THEN

"WHY DONT YOU TALK TO HIM?" NORTHAMERICAN TAKES PHONE AND

SAYS IN BROKEN RUSSIAN "I WAS IN YOUR EMBASSY AND SPOKE TO YOUR

CONSUL." MAN IN SOV EMB "JUST A MINUTE." MAN IN SOV EMB ASKS

NORTHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAT DOES HE WANT? NORTHAMERICAN:

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

0000206

RELEASING OFFICER

1...

CLASSIPICATION

OUTGOING

5

39 07 71

---

## Page 55

14-00000

(14)

DRIG.:

:XT::

"YSTR.:

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

PAGE 2.

LASSIFICATION

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

DTG.

INITIALS

NUMBER

INFO.

102:

NUMBER

"PLEASE SPEAK RUSSIAN"'. SOVIET: "WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT?".

NORTHAMERICAN: "I WAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY

TOOK MY ADDRESS," SOVIEI: "I XXX KNOW THAT." NORTHAMERICAN:

"I DID NOT KNOW IT THEN. I WENT TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY TO ASK

THEM FOR MY ADDRESS BECAUSE THEY HAVE IT." SOVIET;

DONT YOU COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WIT

IS NOT

FAR FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY. " NORTHAMERI

WELLILL BE

THERE RIGHT AWAY." DOUGLAS J. FEINGLAS

TED NORTHAMERICAN.

" SPOKE TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZA

SSIAN.

3. ON ONE OCIOBER 1963

HOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET

EMB AND SAID "HELLO THIS IS LEE OSWALD SPEAKING, I WAS AT YOUR

PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID

THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON SO I WANTED TO FIND

OUT IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING NEW? BUT IDONT REMEMBER THE NAME

OF THAT CONSUL." SOVIET (EMBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOV): "KOSTIKOV:

HE IS DARK," MO: "YES. MY NAME IS OSWALD." SOVIET: "JUST A

MINUTE I'LL FIND OUT. TEEXSATINHAFCENEY HAVEN'T RECEIVED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

•ASSIFICATIO

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000207

31

---

## Page 56

14-00000

(19)

'RIG;

XT.:

PISTR.!

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

10

Page 3.

CLASSIFICATIÓN

INITIALS

DIG,

DEFEPRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBER

INITIALS

INFO.

CITE

7025

ANYTHING YET. MO: "HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?" SOVIET: "YES

THEY SAY THAT A REQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT BUT NOTHING HAS

BEEN RECEIVED AS YET." MO: "AND WHẠT..?"

SOVIET HANGS UP.

4. DOUGLAS J. FEINGLASS WHO DID TRANSCRIPTIONS SAYS

OSWALD IS IDENTICAL WITH PERSON PARA ONE SPEA

BROKEN

IMBER TO SOVIET

AUTHENRBFING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

EASOFTERTIONN

OUTGOING

0000208

RELEASING@@FICER

3: 05

71

initia

---

## Page 57

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DOC. MICRO. SER.

ROUTING

TO.

1. DIRECTOR

DEC 4 1974

FROM i MEXICO CITY

MICROFILMED

CS COPVI

ACTIONS C/WH.5 (MR. WHITTEN,) WH MR. BAGLEY, SR AND NIGHT SECURITY OFFICE NOTIFIED AND

INFO

• DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP,

C/F| 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/OS 2, VR

•SECRET 232D45Z

INMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7028

23 Nou 63 1 6 7 1 87

REF

MEXI 7025 (IN 6T/88.)*

1. COS HAD URGENT CALL TO SES CITENSOR) 23 NOV.

2.

COS THOUGHT WOULD BE FORILITENSOR EXPRESSION

OVER LOSS OF PRES KENNEDY BUT DEVELOPED

THAT LIENVOY BHAD LOCATED CALL TO SOVIET

EMBASSA

MADE ON 28 SEPTEMBER.

•3.

BELIEVE FACT. THAT LITENSOR AWABE

JOINT OPERATIOND AND PASSED D

SECRETA. U

CS Comment: *Forwarded a

CONDOLENCE

LEE OSWALD

THIS CONTACT (FROM OUR

SCOS IS IMPORTANT.

firs

SS

of LIENVOY (2) transcripts.

RECORDS OFFI.ER STAUF

Sion 15

authorized:

EL IMPDET CL BY C/22

4

CONDUCTED ON 1 6 APR 197

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

D: 261÷5-91

Document Number -

59-549

APR 1976

CS COPV:

signed:

R.0. #1

- Unit CICAS

Note:

If destructor.

cite

regEons and coordinate

If apprcoriale.

201-289248

23 Now!

519

for FOlà Revie: on

SECRET

REPRODUGTION EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

neinded i.

dongros

Copy No.

•36.

0003209

330₽71

---

## Page 58

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

TO, lOicer designation, room numbor, and.

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

SCOTT

2.

WHITE

: INTERNAL

,USE ONLY

C IDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

EXTENSION

NO.

DATE

Meer 7:21

SECRET

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

LONMARDED

NOV 2 3 1968

COMMENTS (Number ooch commons lo

show from whom

to whom.

Drom o lina ocross column after each commeni.)

NOY 2 3,

DUP ÖF

REPRONUETION PROMBTEN

549

sem

Approved for Release

by the Central intelligence Agency

Date:

2/2003

To do tess

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

610 usE pRoNOuS

SECRET

0000210

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE OHLY

UNCLASSIFIED

3409 71

---

## Page 59

14-00000

ir.s:

IRIG.:

¿XT.:

'!ISTR.:

(14)

TO

COS

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

SECRET

: CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE:

@-8593;

LITENSOR P

LENKOY/Prod

DEFERRED

OTG.

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

7020

CITE MEXI NUMBER

KAPOK

REF: MEXI-7025

1. COS HAD URGENT CALL TO SEE LITENSOR 23 NOV.

2. COS THOUGHI WOULD BE FOR LITENSOR EXPRESSION

CONDOLENCE OVER LOSS OF PRES KENNEDY BUT PAYELOPED THAT

MADE ON 28 SEPTEMBER

LENNOY PRAND LOCATED CALL TO SONIDADES

POF LEE OSWALL

3. BELIEVE FACT THAT

ISOR AWARE OF THIS CONTACT

E FROM OUR JOINT ORI

AND PASSED DATA TO COS IS IMPORTANT.

END OF MSG

DUP

58.549

0000211

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

W.C.

RELEASING OFFICER

35 0F 71

---

## Page 60

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

! DIRECTOR

OM & MEXICO CITY.

DOC. MICRO. SER

DEC 4

19(4

MICROFILMED

ROUTING

41

ES COPYI

CIA SPHETAL COLLENTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

STION: C/WH 5.

MR WHITTEN, WH AND OS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 8715 23 NOV WB)

FO T DCI, D/OCI, DDP, ADDP,

C/F| 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/05:2, - VR

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

FEAR +T 2320487

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI: 7029

author 1402/22

Signed: 1• Mait

REF. A. DIR 84888*

R. 0. #1 - Unit (JASS.

TA63 N67190 :

Note:

If dertruction.

B. MEXI 7025(11067188) 14

reasons and:

1ọ. SAW PHOTOS OF LEE OSWALD ON TELEVISION

OF 22 NOV AND IT

DALLAS. THOTOS

OBVIOUS PHOTOS SENT TO DALLAS WERE NGA DEN WITH LEE OSWALD HELD

DALLAS, DATES ARE AS GIVEN ON ROTOS.

2.

MEXI STATION REVIEWING ALL AVAILABLE PHOTOS PERSONS ENTERING

SOVIET AND CUBAN EMBASSIES.

3. MEXI SUGGESTING TO LITEMPO 2 THAT SILVIA DURAN WHO

MEXICAN EMPLOYEE AT CUBAN. EMBASSY AND WHO PUT LEE OSWALD. ON

TELEPHONE FROM CUBAN EMBASSY TO TALK TO SOVIET EMBASSY ON 28 SEPT

BE ARRESTED IMMEDIATELY AND HELD INCOMMUNICADO UNTIL SHE GIVES

ALL DETAILS OF OSWALD KNOWN TO HER.

(SEE REF B)

4. LITEMPO 2 CAN SAY DOF.S, COVERAGE REVEALED CALL TO HIM IF HE

NEEDS TO EXPARIN.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED.ON_

1.6 APR 1975

SEER

ELEHMPDET CL BY 01.2208

Cs Comments:

*Photos sent from Mexico City were not those of Lee Osward.

**Forwarded a review of LIENVOY (2) transcripts.

0: 200)

201-289248

5,6

Document Number.

8S dog/

23 70063

-Tor FOlA. Review on APR 1976

• SECRET

REPRODUCTION. SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

0000212

368F 7)

---

## Page 61

14-00000

"'ti''' de

DOC. MICRO. SERT

DEC 4

1974-

TO

I DIRECTOR

MICROFILMED

FROM & MEXICO CIT

ACTIONi C/IH 5(WH AND OS NOTIFIED

INFO • DC, D/DCI, DOP, ADDP

CLASSIRIED MESSAGE

SECRET

¡OUTING

CIA HISTORICAR REVIEW PROGRAM

&S COPY

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

COPY. SLOTTED 1930 23 NOV BP)

9-4

The fallaw'an

authorired:

4472322462

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7033

23H0v63 1N67232

Signed: I

SE

0. #1- Ualt §1603

Note:

If dostruction. "cite

REF

MEXI 7825 (N.E71T8)*

reasons and coordinate

1f appropriato.

1. FOLL ADDITIONAL CALLS LIENVOY PROBABLY REPEAT PROBABLY OSWALD:

.. FOL ABBREVIATIONS USED: MF-WOMAN OUTSIDE; HF-MAN OUTSIDE

MD-WOMAN INSIDE; HD-MAN INSIDE.

A. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT

HOMBRE

ELRZIMPDET CL

LLAM NDO DICE QUE ES NECESARIO SACER UNA

IR A ODESA.

HOMBRE DENTRO: QUE LLAME AL 15 6D 55

PIDA AL CONSUL.

HOMBRE

CLASSIFICATION RAVIEW

FUERA: PIDE LA DIRECCION.

HOMB

MRO:

SE LA PROPORCIONA."

B. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63

• SOV CONSULATE 1605 HRS "ENTRADA.

ME DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA DICE QUE ESTA ALLI UN CIUDADANO AMERICANO

QUE FUE A SOLICITAR UNA VISA PARA CUBA EN TRANSITO PORQUE VA PARA

BYS LANEROFOIA Reviaw on

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 197g fument Number

• LA URSS Y ENTONCES QUIERE SABER CON QUIEN HABIA HABLADO PORQUE

•APR

ELLA LO MANDO CON ELLOS DE LA EMBAJADA RUSA DICIENDOLE QUE SI ELLOS

LE HACIAN O ACEPTABAN LA VISA QUE ENTONCES ELLOS LOS CUSANOS TAMBIEN

SE LA DABAN SIN MAS TRAMITES NADAMAS AVISANDO A. EMIGRACION

EN CUBA Y

QUIERE _SABER CON: QUIEN HABLO PORQUE EL DICE QUE NO SABE TAMPOCO CON

QUE PERSONS Y QUE LE DIJERON QUE SI QUE NO TENIA PROBLEMA.

P::2052-5-41

546

C3 COPYL

201-257.248

-SECRET

?3Nou6j

Reclutad lora

da-nyraf..

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No

150019,

0000213

37 0F 21

---

## Page 62

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 67232.

- PAGE :2

LE PIDE ESPERE UN MOGENTO.

HE IS SILVIA DURAN DEL CONSULADO DE

- CUBA Y EXPLICA

LO MISMO A OTRO HD.. ESTE LE DICE QUE LE DEJE SU

TELEFONO Y SU NOMBRE PARA QUE DESPUES LE LLAMEN, SILVIA SE LO

PROPORCIONA ASI COMO EL TELEFONO 11 28 47, Y QUE APROVECHA COMO COSA

•PERSONAL DE QUE ELLA SE CAMBIO DE DOMICILIO Y NO HA PODIDO AVISAR

PARA QUE LE ENVIEN, EL BOLETIN Y QUE AHORA SE LA PUEDE DAR. HD

LE PIDE QUE LLAME A KOURKHARENKO

PARA QUE LE DE SU CAMBIO Y PIDE

LE DE EL NOMBRE DE LA CONSEJERO O AGREGADO CULTURAL. SILVIA DICE

QUE SE LLAMA TERESA PROENZA Y LE LLAMAN AL 14 13

26.:: HD QUE GRACIAS. "

C. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT 1626 HRS OUT CALL FROM SOV EMB TÓ

11 28 47: "HD PREGUNTA A SILVIA QUE SI HA IDO ALLI ESE AMERICANO.

SILVIA QUE SI QUE ALLI ESTA. HD QUE SEGUN LAS CARTAS QUE LES MOSTRO

• DEL CONSULADO EN WASHINGTON EL QUIERE IR A LA URSS PARA ALLA MUCHO

•TIEMPO CON SU ESPOSA QUE ES RUSA, PERO TODAVIA NO

SE

LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGION RESPECTO A SU PROBL

ESO

SEGUN

LOS TRAMITES OCUPAN UNOS CUATRO O CINCO MESES

IN

TENER ESE

•PERMISO DE LA URSS DEBEN DE PREGUNATAR

EN NO

SE LE PUEDE

DESPACHAR AQUI EL VISADO SIN PRES

A WASHINGTON PERO SEGUN

ESTE SENOR LE MOSTRO UNA CAR:

"QUE ES UN MIEMBRO DE UNA ORGANIZACION

EN FAVOR DE CUBA Y HA

DICHO QUE ELLOS LOS. CUBANOS

NO PUEDEN

DARLE EL VISADO SIN EL VISADO RUSO Y AHORA HD NO

SABE QUE HACER

CON EL, PORQUE DEBEN DE ESPERAR LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON.

SILVIA QUE ELLOS TAMBIEN, PORQUE EL PROBLEMA DE EL, ES QUE EL NO

CONOCE A NADIE EN CUBA Y ENTONCES SI ES ASI ES MUY DIFICIL QUE

LE DEN LA VISA, PORQUE: EL PENSABA IRAMITAR SU VISA; PORQUE COMO

EL YA SABIA QUE SE IBA A TARDAR MUCHO EN ESPERAR EL VISADO RUSO

0000214

38 1F 71

---

## Page 63

14-00000

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN.

_ PAGE 3

EN CUUA Y YA DE ALLA IRSE A LN UNSS,

!!D QUE LA COSA ES QUE SI SU

ESPOSA ESTA AHORITA EN MASHINGION PERO VA A RECIBIR AHORITA EL

VISADO O EL PERMISO DE LA URSS PARA REGRESAR A LA PATRIA,, ELLA VA

A'RECIBIR SU VISADO EN WASHINGTON PERO TENIENDO ESE VISADO ELLA

• PODRIAN COMUNICARLE A CUALQUIER LUGAR ESE PERMISO POR EJEMPLO AQUI

O EN CUALQUIER OTIA PARTE LO. PUEDE RECIBIR, PERO AMORITA NO LAS

TIENEN. SILVIA QUE CLARO Y QUE TAMPOCO SE LE PUEDE DAR UNA CARTA

PORQUE NO SABEN SI SU VISA SERA APROVADA. HD QUE ELLOS SOLO DARAN

EL VISADO SEGUN LAS INDICACIONES: SILVIA QUE ENTONCES ESO PONDRA

EN SU PLANILLA. HD QUE TAMPOCO NO SE LE CONOCE Y QUE PERDONE

POR LA MOLESTIA. SILVIA QUE NO HAY CUIDADO Y QUE MUGHAS GRACIAS. "

D: ON 1 OGI 63 CALL AT 1631 HRS TO SOV MIL ATT IN BROK

RUSSIAN:

" "HELLO.

I WAS AT YOUR PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND I TALI

OUR

• CONSUL.

THEY SAID THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM

ING TON

AND I WANTED TO ASK YOU IF THERE IS ANYTHIN

SOVIET:

"I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU TO CALL ANOTHERS

UMBER. " MAN OUTSIDE:

"PLEASE. " SOVIET: "PLEASE WRITRY

15 6A 55 AND ASK FOR A

CONSUL. " MAN OUTSIDE: "THANK YOU. " SOVIET: "PLEASE."

E." ON 3. OCTOBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT: MAN OUTSIDE: SPEAXS

IN BROKEN SPANISH THEN IN ENGLISH TO SOVIET. "HELLO. VISA FOR

RUSSIA," SOVIET: "CALL ON THE OTHER PHONE." MAN OUTSIDE:

"I'M LOOKING FOR A VISA TO GO TO RUSSIA." SOVIET: "PLEASE, CALL

ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CONSUL." MAN OUTSIDE: "OH, THE CONSUL,"

SOVIET: "THAT'S RIGHT, 15. 6D 55." MAN. OUTSIDE: "ONE MOMENT PLEASE,

I'LL HAVE TO GET A FENCIL TO WRITE THE NUMBER DOWN. THEY ISSUE

2101-289218

0000215.

39

0F71

---

## Page 64

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN....

0/232

PAGE "

THE VISA THERE?" SOVII: "THAT DEPENDS ON YOUR CONVERSATION.

I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THIS BUSINESS. PLEASE CALL THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL

AND ASK YOUR QUESTION. " MAN OUTSIDE:. ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE

TELEPHONE AGAIN.

SOVIET: GIVES THE NUMBER TO HIM AND TELLS HIM

TO ASX FOR THE CONSUL OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO.

MAN OUISIDE:

"IHANKS. "

SEE RET

CS Corament:

*Fornarded a review of LIENVOY (l)'transcripts.

REPRODUCTION PRONIBITED

Ly Sahil

0000216

40sF71

---

## Page 65

14-00000

• UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJSCT: (Optional)

FROM:

ACHON COPY

THAL

ONLY

L

CONFK, ITIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

EXTENSION

NO.

MEX

7033

SECRET

TOi (Officor designation, room number, and

building)

SCOTT

2.

WHITE

DATE

NAY 2 3 1963

DATE

OFFICER'S

FOXMARDEO

INITIANS

COMMENTS (Number ooch commonl la shom. from

whom

Drom a line across column after each commoni.)

RECEIVED

NOV 2 3 1963

Dip a:

55-546

NO! 2 3 1963

REPRODUCTION

PROMBITED

-Esda

pasture

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

15

FOP.M

3-62

610 USE RENO

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

P-8598

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

0000217

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

41 0F71

---

## Page 66

14-00000

:XT.:.

DISTR.:

TO

R: B. RIGGS

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

XX

IMMEDIATE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DẠTE:

FILE:

23 NOVEMBER 1963

CXSSISENTION

P-8593

LIENVOY/Prod

NUMBEN

'''CIT HISTORICAL REVIS" PROGRAM

INITIALS

RELEASE IN FULL

INFO.

138

IMMEDIATE DIR

_MEXI

RYBAT

55-546

REF: MEXI 7025

1. FOL ADDITIONAL CALLS LIENVOY PROBABLY REPEAT PROBABLY

OSWALD; FOL ABBREVIATIONS USED: ME - WOMAN OUTSIDE; HE -

MAN OUTSIDE; MD WOMAN INSIDE; DE HD- MAN ELNSIDE LL

A, ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 CALL TO SOV A

T "ENTRADA.

HOMBRE LLAMANDO DICE QUE ES NECESAR

SE UNA VISA PARA IR

A ODESA, HOMBRE DENTRO: QUE LI

AL 15 60 55 Y QUE PIDA AL

CONSUL.

HOMBRE FUERA:

DIRECCION. HOMBRE DENTRO:

SE LA PROPORCIONA.

B. ON 27 S

'EMBER 63 CALL TO SOV CONSULATE 1605, HRS

"ENTRADA. ME. DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA DICE QUE ESTA ALLI UN

CIUDADANO AMERICANO QUE FUE A SOLICITAR UNA VISA PARA CUBA

EN TRANSITO PORQUE VA PARA LA URSS Y ENTONCES QUIERE SABER

CON QUIEN HABIA HABLADO PORQUE ELLA LO MANDO CON ELLOS DE

LA EMBAJADA RUSA DICIENDOLE QUE SI ELLOS LE HACIAN O ACEPTABAN

COORCINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SEGREM

CLASSIFICATION

RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

0000218

420871

---

## Page 67

14-00000

it!)

RIG

iT.:

STR.:

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

Page 2.

CLASSIFICATION

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INITIALO

DTO.

NUMBEN

PRIORITY

OPERA MONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALD

INFO.

CITE

"130

NUMBEI:

LA VISA QUE ENTONCES ELLOS LOS CUBANOS TAMBIEN SE LA DABAN

SIN MAS TRAMITES NADAMAS AVISANDO A EMIGRACION EN CUBA Y

QUIERE SABER CON QUIEN HABLO PORQUE EL DICE QUE NO SABLE

TAMPOÇO CON QUE PERSONA Y QUE LE DIJERON QUE SI QUE NO TENIA.

PROBLEMA, HD LE PIDE ESPERE UN MOMENTO. ME ES SILVIA DURAN

DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA Y EXPLICA LO MISMO A S

ESTE LE

DICE QUE LE DEJE SU TELEFONO Y SU NOMBR

;:'-

LLAMEN. SILVIA SE LO PROPORCIONA

QUE DESPUES LE

NO EL TELEFONO IL 28 47,

Y QUE APROVECHA COMO COSA

ONAL DE QUE ELLA SE CAMBIO

DE DOMICILIO Y NO HA P

VISAR PARA QUE LE ENVIEN EL BOLETIN

Y QUE AHORA SE LA PUEDE DAR. HD LE PIDE QUE LLAME A KOUKHARENKO

PARA QUE LE DE SU CAMBIO Y PIDE LE DE EL NOMBRE DE LA CONSEJERO

O AGREGADO CULTURAL, SILVIA DICE QUE SE LLAMA TERESA PROENZA

Y LE LLAMAN AL 14 1Z. 26. HD QUE GRACIAS. "

C. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT. 1626 HRS OUT CALL FROM SOV

EMB TO 11 28 47:

"HD PREGUNTA A SILVIA QUE SI HA IDO ALLI ESE

AMERICANO. SILVIA QUE SI QUE ALLI ESTA, HD QUE SEGUN LAS CARIAS

COORDINATING OFFICERS

€36R39

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

0000219

430F71

---

## Page 68

14-00000

1T.:

ISTR.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

Page 3.

CLASSIFICATION

FILE:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

DTG.

NUMBER

INITIALS

INFO.

CITE

7123

NUMBER

QUE LES MOSTRO DEL CONSULADO EN WASHINGTON EL QUIERE IR A LA

•" URSS PARA ALLA MUCHO TIEMPO CON SU ESPOSA QUE ES RUSA, PERO

TODAVIA NO SE HA RECIBIDO LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON RESPECTO

A SU PROBLEMA, PERO ESO SEGUN LOS TRAMITES OCUPAN UNOS CUATRO:

O CINCO MESES PERO SIN TENER ESE PERMISO DE LA URSS DEBEN DE

PREGUNATAR Y MAS BIEN NO SE LE PUEDE DESPACHAR

SIN PREGUNTARLE A WASHINGTON PERO SEGUN

UI EL VISADO

SENOR LE MOSTRO

UNA CARIA EN QUE ES UN MIEMBRO D

GANIZACION EN FAVOR

DE CUBA Y HA DICHO QUE ELLO

BANOS NO PUEDEN DARLE EL

VISADO SIN EL VISADO

HORA HD NO SABE QUE HACER CON EL.

PORQUE DEBEN DE ESPERAR LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGION. SILVIA

QUE ELLOS TAMBIEN, R PORQUE EL PROBLEMA DE EL, ES QUE EL NO

CONOCE A NADIE EN CUBA Y ENTONCES SI ES ASI ES MUY DIFICIL QUE

LE DEN LA VISA, PORQUE EL PENSABA TRAMITAR SU VISA, PORQUE

COMO EL YA SABIA QUE SE IBA A TARDAR MUCHO EN ESPERAR EL VISADO

RUSO EN CUBA Y YA DE ALLA IRSE A LA URSS. HD QUE LA COSA ES QUE

SI SU ESPOSA ESTA AHORITA EN WASHINGTON PERO VA A RECIBIR AHORITA

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION:

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000220

140F71

---

## Page 69

14-00000

217. 1900

RIG.!

.T.:

STR.:

(19)

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

Page 4.

CUASSIFICATION

FILE:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERA TONAL

INMEDIATE

INITIALO

ота.

NUMBER

INITIALA

INFO.

CITE

7038

"NUNDENT"

EL VISADO O EL PERMISO DE LA URSS PARA REGRESAR A LA PATRIA,

. ?:

ELLA VA A RECIBIR SU VISADO EN WASHINGTON PERO TENIENDO ESE

VISADO ELLA PODRIAN COMUNICARLE A SUAL QUIER LUGAR ESE PERMISO

POR EJEMPLO AQUI O EN CUALQUIER OTRA PARTE LO PUEDE RECIBIR,

PERO AHORITA NO LAS TIENEN, SILVIA QUE CLARO Y QUE IAMPOCO SE

LE PUEDE DAR UNA CARTA PORQUE NO SABEN SI SU VIS

3:4

APROVADA,..

HD QUE ELLOS SOLO DARAN EL VISADO SEGUN

SILVIA QUE ENTONCES ESO PONDRA FARE

SE LE PUEDE DAR NINGUNA

ACIONES.

DANILLA, HD QUE TAMPOCO

RECOMMENDACION PORQUE NO

SE LE CONOCE Y QUE PERA

DINE POR LA MOLESTIA, SILVIA QUE NO HAY

CUIDADO Y QUE MUCHAS GRACIAS. "

For Distance

D. ON 1 OCT 63 CALL AT 1031 HRS TO SOY IL ATT IN BROKEN'

RUSSIAN: "HELLO."I WAS AT YOUR PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND I TALKED

TO YOUR CONSUL, THEY SAID THAT THEY 'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO

WASHINGION AND I WANTED TO ASK YOU IF THERE IS ANYTHING NEW?"

SOVIET: "I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU TO CALL ANOTHER PHONE NUMBER, "

MAN OUISIDE: '"'PLEASE." SOVIET: "PLEASE WRITE IT DOWN 15 60 55

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING .

RELEASING OFFICER

: r.

0000221

45 5F 71

---

## Page 70

14-00000

XT.:

ISTR.:

TO

Page 5.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEOKET

CLASSIFICATION

DATE:

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INFO.

INITIALS

DTO.

INITIALS

FILE:

NUMBER

1138

CITE

AND ASK FOR A CONSUL." MAN OUTSIDE: "THANK YOU." SOVIET:

"PLEASE,"

E. ON 3OCIOBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT: MAN OUTSIDE:

SPEAKS IN BROKEN SPANISH THEN IN ENGLISH IO SOVIET. "HELLO.

VISA FOR RUSSIA, "' SOVIET: "CALL ON THE OTHER PHONE." MAN

OUTSIDE:

""I'M LOOKING FOR A VISA TO GO TO RUSSIA."

"PLEASE, CALL ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CONS

"OH, THE CONSUL, " SOVIET: "THAT'S RIC

"ONE MOMENT PLEASE, I'LL HAVE

N OUTSIDE:

60•55." MAN OUTSIDE:

A PENCIL TO WRITE THE

NUMBER DOWN. THEY ISSE

ISA THERE?"' SOVIET: "THAT

DEPENDS ON YOUR CONVERSATION. I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THIS BUSINESS.

PLEASE CALL THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL AND ASK YOUR QUESTION. "

MAN OUTSIDE: ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE TELEPHONE AGAIN. SOVIET:

GIVES THE NUMBER TO HIM AND TELLS HIM TO ASK FOR THE CONSUL

OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO. MAN OUTSIDE: "THANKS."

END OF MSC

REER

AUTHENTICATINO OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLISSIFCATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING

ING EFFICER

0000222

L4 0F71

---

## Page 71

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DOC. NICRO. SER

: DIRECTOR

ROM

i MEXICO CITY

S3 COPS

DEC 4: 1974

MICROFILMED

CHION, C/SR 5(MR BAGLEY SR IN AND OS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED 13O 2S N

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADOP, C/CI, G/CI/OPS, C/FI, CARECORDS BEFICER STAMP

+56 7 55 2322557

IMMEL ATE DIR CITE MEXI 7934

Siened: B

3 REDWOOD LOIMPROVE

R.0.#1 - U71+ CIOSS

REF DIR 81837y phae Emesaha

liote:

cito

Linate

1. MORNING 22 NOV LIENVOY REPORTING SOVEMB NOPE

20

AT 125D HRS 22 NOV CUBAN CONSUL ALFR

DIAZ ASKEU

TO SPEAK. WITH SUSPECT KGB PAVEL

YATSKOV,

APPARENTLY. UNAVAILABLE AND

A PRASAME ON LUNGE WITH RO

LATTER

CONVERSATION ENSUING IN FAMILIAR FORM "TU":

fan

• KOS:

FORGIVE ME FOR ARRIVING LATE.

MIR:

DID YOU RECOVER THE SUITCASE?

KOS: YES,

E/82 1MPDET CL BY 8/2208

DIR: IHEN IT WAS ARRIVING ON THE OTHER TRIP.

KOS:

YES.

.1.

MIR: I CALLED IO TELL YOU THE FOLLOWING, THAT REGARDING

for FOIA Review oni

APR 1976

THAT WATIER THAT WE HAD TALKED ABOUT, TO SEE IF WE WOULD SPEND ENS

IN CHAPULTEPEC PALK BECAUSE MY WIFE IS PREPARING SOME SOON 70

EAT THERE.

NOS: IN SORRY

BUT I'VE JUST MADE PLANS

701-241248

FOR ANOTHEA

I'D LENING THIS VERY

DAY.

SO PLEASE FORGIVE ME FOR

Not doing

0:200-8-14

3S CORSI

200-5-4

10.100

5-41

2325063

NO ACOUCHON SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRO

470F.11

0000223

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW.

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1976.

68

Document Number

---

## Page 72

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

N- 0221

TO GO WITH YOUS CAT THIS POINT KOSTINOS IN

ARROR A0DA6OS2O11

AS AZQUE, AND MIR CORRECIS

HIRO CONNENT:. MIR REFLAGSO BUSCLIE

AZGUE LOPEZ, FORMER CUBAN CONSULI.

KOS: HAVE YOU ALREADY IALKED WITH SUGS OLEG MANSINOWONI

NECHAPORENKO?

MIR: L'D LIKE TO TALK WITH PAVEL YATSKOV.

KOS: WAIT A MINUTE, HE'LL COME NOW.

MIR:

IF. HE'S BUSY I'LL CALL HIM LATER, BUT I'LL BE AVAILABLE

FOR THE NEXT HALF HOUR AT IEL NO 11 28 47.

KOS: 0K.

3. CONTINUANCE LIENVOY SOVEME REPORTING AFTERN

CABLED SEPARATELY.

СЕСРБІ

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED,,

0000224

480571

---

## Page 73

14-00000

IIG.: R.L. EASBY

Tr.

STR.:

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY.)

" CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

• CLARFLEASE IN EULL

: 1900

•ТОКЕТ

FILE:

CLASSIFICATION

DATE: 23 NOVEMBER 1963

P=8593

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INITIALS

DTG.

XX

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBER

INITIALS

PRITY DIR

INFO.

DUP Or

CITE MEXI NUMBER

SUSE

КА.PОК

59-23

1. COMPLETE RECHECK PHOTOS ALL VISITORS TO CUBAN EMB

AUGUST THRU FIRST HALF NOV AGAINST GOOD PRESS-PHOTOS SHOWS

NO EVIDENCE OSWALD VISIT. SIMILAR BLANK AGAINST ALL SOVEMB

PHOTOS EROM 1 SEPT. NOTE ONLY VISIT WE KNOW HE MADE WAS CUBAN,

EMBASSY 28 SEPT, SATURDAY ON WHICH EMB CLOSED AT

VE HAVE

NOT HAD COVERAGE

IN FUTURE WILL REQUIRE

HALF DAY

PHOTO COVERAGE BOTH SOV AND CUBAN

ив)

2. CHECK MANIFESTS ALI

AIRPORT FROM U.S. FAN

UPS ARRIVING MEXI CENTRAL

OSWALD ARRIVAL UNDER ANY LIKELY.

VARIANT HIS NAME. PASSING THIS INFO GOM ASKING THEY CHECK

BORDER AIRPOTS FROM WHICH OSWALD MIGHT HAVE FLOWN MEXICO

CITY. WE DO NOT GET MANIFESTS THESE DOMESTIC FLIGHTS.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

END OF MSG

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSTFIEATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING ofFiCER

0000225

49 OF 71

---

## Page 74

14-00000

OING : JOHN M.:

UL: C/SH 3

ExT .

5623

DATE: 24 POVEMER 1963

TO

NURRICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

- (

1262.03

ROUTIrI

DD INDEX

O'NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS. FILE NO.

2

CS COPH

Nov 24

1332263

CONF: WH 8

3)

TO

CO'OMBIE SECT DEFERRED

ROUTINE

NIC: DCI, D/OCI, DOP, ADDP, CI, CL/OPS, FI, SR, 7, SAS 8, OS 2., VR

INMEDIAILS MEXI

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONSYE DR

84920

LITHVOI

RELEASE IN FULL

E AS MAIN ALL IS TRAYIG AND READING IE STATENT O

SILVIA DURAN,

ONE

DECRIST QUESTION STILL FUZZIES US.

WHEN

INS OSWALD WAS IN MOXICO CITY IN INTE

SEPTEBER AND BARLE OCTOBER TO GET A SOVIET VISA AND A CUBAN TRANSIT VISA, DID HE

HAFT TO TRAVEL TO CUBA RIGET HAX, ALONE, OR HAVE ETS WIFE JOIN HIM THERE AND THEN

TRAVE POZ CUBA, OR DID ES PLAT TO RETURE TO THE STATES FIRST AND

THEN LEAVE LATER

AOUCIT APPEARS THAT EX WAS THS THINKING ONLY ABOUAO REA

CEFUL CHANGE OF

BRISTICT DO WE SOVIST UTION, IT IS ALSO POSS

LE WAS GETTING DOCUMENTET

" TO HAKE A QUICK ESCAPE AFTER ASSASSINAT

2: PLEASE RESLUDY YOUR LENVOY

MEXICANS QUESTICH SILVIA

D: 200-5-Y1

ESIDENT.

LEBAND GIVE US YOUR OPINION, AND ALSO HAVE

CAREFULLY ON THTS POINT.

ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

65

Document Number

for FOlA Review on

-25

APR 1976

ES COPTI

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1976

E/ABIIPDET CL BY 0L3208

201-289248

200-541

24 Now63

Qua tri c

TECIAS F. KARAHESSINES

ADDP

RELEASING

CER

25

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP I

Laciused from automatie

seclassilication

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

SOHN M. WHITLEN

.C/WH 3

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

00002

50. 0F 71

---

## Page 75

14-00000

10-34 1303

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

DTG

INITIALS

241332Z

INFO

(114)

24 NOV 63

DEFERREO

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INCOMING NUNBER

6702

CITE

IMMEDIATE MEXI

LIENVOY

10 AFTER ANALYZING ALL THE TRAFFIC AND READIL

STATEMENT OF

SILVIA DURAN, ONE IMPORTANT QUESTION S

MUZZLES US. WHEN LEE

OSWALD WAS IN MEXICO CITY IN L

ARTEMBER AND EARLY OCTOBER TO

GET & SOVIET VISA AND A CÉ

ANSIT VISA, DID HE WANT TO TRAVEL

TO CUBA RIGHT AWAY, ALONE, OP. HAVE HIS WIFE JOIN HIM THERE AND

THEN LEAVE FOR CUBA, OR DID HE PLAN TO RETURN TO THE STATES FIRST

AND THEN LEAVE LATER. ALTHOUGH IT APPEARS THAT HE WAS THEN THINKING

ONLY ABOUT À PEACEFUL CHANGE OF RESIDENCE TO THE SOVIET UNION,

IT IS ALSO POSSIBLE THAT HE WAS GETTING DOCUMENTED TO MAKE A QUICK

ESCAPE AFTER ASSASSINATING THE PRESIDENT..

2. PLEASE RESTUDY YOUR LIENVOY MATERIAL AND GIVE US YOUR OPINION,

AND ALSO HAVE MEXICANS QUESTION SILVIA DURAN VERY CAREFULLY ON

THIS POINT.

ADVISE.

oris t

: Aylora DuRANCA

File: 6-8553

24/13107

SEGRET

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

0000227

---

## Page 76

14-00000

1304

JRIG.:

R.L. EASBY

:XT.:

• CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

(44)

DISTR. COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

GLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

DIG.

DATE:

24 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE: 2-7976

P-8593

NUHDEX

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

TO

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO:

CITE MEXI -

1054

RYBAT

DUP OF

DIR:

A. MEXI 7046

B. DIR 84920

94•565

1. ADDITIONS OR AMENDMENTS REF

A. DURAN ARRESTED

I PROHIBITED

WITH HUSBAND AND MEMBERS

OF FAMILY WHO HAVING P

I TAKEN TO JAIL.

B. SINCE SHE

• TOLD NOT ONLY HUSBAND BUT OTHER

MEMBERS OF FAMILY ABOUT OSWALD VISITS AFTER SHE READ NAME

AND SAW TV. PICTURE, SHE AIIRIBUTED ARREST TO DENUNCIATION BY

COUSIN WHOM DOES NOT LIKE. THUS SOURCE GOM KNOWLEDGE NOT

REVEALED IO HER.

C. DOES NOT KNOW WHERE OSWLAD STAYED IN MEXI.

D. PASSPORT OSWALD SHOWED HER WAS STILL VALID FOR

USSR. HE TOLD HER WISHED RETURN THERE PERMANENTLY WITH WIFE.

E. DURAN HAD IMPRESSION OSWALD HAD OR BELIEVED HE

HAD MADE ARRANGEMENTS. IN WASHINGTON WHEREBY INSTRUCTIONS

WOULD BE SENT SOVEMB

MORNING SENT VISA IN MANNER

AUTIENTICATING OFFICER

-SECRET

CLASBIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000228

520F71

---

## Page 77

14-00000

19S7 1304

ORIG.:

:XT.:

JISTR.:

AGNORANTUN

TO

(44)

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

DATE:

Page 2.

CLISEAEATTON

FILE:

DEFERRED

INITIALD

DEO.

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMSER

INITIALO

INFO.

CITE

705.4

NUMBER

B! WHICH WOULD NOT HIMSELF HAVE TO VISIT SOVEMB. FAILURE HIS

REAL OR IMAGINED INSIRUCTIONS WORK SMOOTHLY CAUSED HIM

BECOME RUDE TO SOVIETS. (COMMENT: PARA IC OF

933

PARTIALLY BEARS THIS OUT BUT STATION DES

IN OSWALDS TALKS WITH SOVS.

• SIGNS RUDENESS

AILS DURAN INTERROGATION

MAY REVEAL OSWALD BECAM

SIVE IN CUBAN EMB AS RESULT HIS

FRUSTRATION BY SOVS.)

F. HER IMPRESSION HE SIMPLY "COMRADE" WHO COULD

NOT LIVE COMFORTABLY UNDER RIGORS OF CAPITALISM AND WISHED

REIURN TO SPIRITUAL HOME IN USSR.

G. DURAN KNOWS NOT WHETHER HE GOT USSR VISA OR CUBAN

TRANSIT VISA BUT IF HE DID SHE HAD NO PART IN IT.

• H. IF OSWALD TALKED ANYONE ELSE IN CUBAN EMBASSY

SHE UNAWARE.

2. REF DIR 8-1916 (IN 6687). ECHEVERRIA AWARE ODYOKE CONCERN

RE LEAK AND HAS WARNED HER ABOUT TALKING, BUI FEELS AT LEAST

FACI OF ARRESI MAY WELL

COOROINATING

RO LEAKED BY OTHER RELATIVES DICKED

OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000229

530F71

---

## Page 78

14-00000

1-31

• 1304

(44)

ORIG.:

EXT.:

DISTR.:

TO

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

DATE:

Page 3.

SECRE

ASSMENTOI

FILE:

DEFERRED

INITIALO

oTO.

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBER

INITIALS

INFO.

CITE

17.054

UP SAME TIME. COS WILL CONTINUE PUSH NEED FOR SECRECY WITH

ECHEVERRIA. DURAN AND HUSBAND WILL BE RELEASED BUT KEPT

UNDER CLOSE SURVEILLANCE.

3. RE REF B. WITH MEXI 7933 HQ HAS FUL

CRIPTS ALL

PERTINENT CALLS. REGRET COMPLETE

ECK SHOWS TAPES FOR

THIS PERIOD ALREADY ERASED.

ANOT TEEING THAT ABOVE IS

BEST ANSWER OBTAIN

EF B BUT WILL REQUEST REINTERROGATION

DURAN IF HQ STILL DESIRES.

END OF MSG

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASFICTION

CUTGOING

0000230

RELEASING &+fiEsR

540F71

---

## Page 79

14-00000

-

SHEL

2

¿ DIRECTOR

FROM

• MEXICO CITY.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PS.95 RAM

DOC MICRO. SER

ROUTING

4)

5

16

RELEASE IN FULL

DEC 4

1974

ACTION SO/MAR

1999

MICROFILMED

INFO

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, G/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS. 5, D/OS 2. Va

XXX

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

RECORDS OFFICER SIAUP

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 197€

TINI. 24118377

The tollowing sation 18

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7054

author!ied:

ELS@IMPDET CL DY 01220%

KAMA IMMEDIATE

Stoned: ly. Harton

TO BET 378

REF MEXI 7046 (1467278)*

R.0. #1 = U115 CHIPS

DiR 84920**

Jote:

If doctruction,

cite.

reasons and coordinate

1. ADDITIONS OR AMENDMENTS REB A: 1f appropriato.

18.

A BURN ARRESTED AT HOME VITH HUSBAND AND MEMBERS OF FAMILY UHO

*HAVING PARTY, ALL TAXEN TO JAIL.

B. SINGE SHE HAD TOLD NOT ONLY HUSBAND BÜT OTHER MEMBERS OF FAMILY

ABOUT JOSWALD VISIIS AFTER SHE READ NAME AND SAW TV PIGTURE, SHE AITRIBUTED

ARREST TO DENUNGIATION BY COUSIN WHOM DOES NOT LIKE. THUS SOURCE

GOM

KNOWLEDGE NOT REVEALED TO HER.

vUmber

C. DOES NOT KNOW WHERE OSWALD STAYED IN M

FOIA Review on

-565

APR 1976

D.. PASSPORT OSWALD SHOWED HER WAS:

HER WISHED RETURN THERE. PERMANENTI

E. DURAN HAD IMPRESSION

MENTS IN WASHINGTON WHEREBY

ID FOR USSR. HE TOLD

IFE.

201-289248

HAD OR BELIEVED HE HAD MADE ARRANGE-®

STRUCTIONS WOULD BE SENT SOVEMB MEXI TO

FOIA.

ISSUE SOV ENTRY VISA IN MANNER BY WHICH WOULD NOT HIMSELF. HAVE TO VISIT

SOVEMB. FAILURE HIS REAL OR IMAGINED INSTRUCTIONS WORK SMOOTHLY CAUSED

Review

HIM BECOME RUDE TO SOVIETS. ( COMMENT: PARA IC OF MEXI 7933 PARTIALLY

BEARS THIS OUT BUT STATION DETECTS NO SIGNS RUDENESS IN OSWALDS TALKS

1: 200-5=41

Cradit

B201-07.407 RODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

24No06 P

Copy No.

Document Number..

0000231

55 0F71

---

## Page 80

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING.

5

TO

FROM

ACTION:

NFO

• DIRECTOR

WITH SOVS. FURTHER DETAILS DURAN

INTERROGATIon MAY REVEAL

WALD

BECAME ABUSIVE. IN CUBAN EMB AS RESÜLT HIS FRUSTRATIQN

F. HER IMPRESSION. HE SIMPLY "COMRADE" WHO

OT LIVE COMFORT-

ABLY UNDER RIGORS OF CAPITALISM AND WISH

I RN

TO SPIRITUAL HOME IN

USSR.

G. DURAN KNOWS NOT WHE

USSR VISA OR CUBAN TRANSIT VISA

BUT IF HE DID SHE HAD NO PART

IT.

H. IF OSWALD TALKED ANYONE ELSE IN CUBAN EMBASSY SHE UNAWARE.

2.. REF DIR 84916. ECHEVERRIA AWARE ODYOKE CONCERN RE LEAK AND HAS.

WARNED HER ABOUT TALKING, BUT FEELS AT LEAST FACT OF ARREST MAY WELL

BE LEAKED BY OTHER RELATIVES PICKED UP SAME TIME. COS WILL CONTINUE

PUSH NEED FOR SECRECY WITH •ECHEVERRIA. DURAN AND HUSBAND WILL BE

RELEASED BUT KEPT UNDER CLOSE SURVEILLANCE

3. RE REF B. WITH MEXI 7933 HQ HAS FULL TRANSCRIPTS ALL PERTINENT

'ALLS. REGRET COMPLETE RECHECK SHOWS TAPES FOR THIS PERIOD ALREADY-

ERASED, STATION FEELING. THAT ABOVE IS BEST ANSWER OBTAINABLE TO:!

IEF B.BUT WILL REQUEST REINTERROGATION DURAN IF HQ STILL DESIRES.

HE GOREI

CÏS COMMENT: *Echeverria told COS Duran completely cooperative sun far!

written statement attesting to two visits by Oswald.

**Did Oswald want to travi to Guba rigt awer, alose,

his nife join him there and then leave sor Gula, or did je plat to ratpto .

Arsi ind then leav. later?

0000232

1560F21

REPRODUCTION iS OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRUHIVITED

Copy Nu.

---

## Page 81

14-00000

[ UNCLASSLFIED

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD

CONF

SHEET

NTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Oplionol)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

EXTENSION

TO:

(Officor designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVZO

OFFICER'S

FORWARDEO

INITIALS

NO.

Mili 7055-

DATE

NOV 2 5. 1963

COMMENTS (Number

soch somment lo show from whom

to whorn.

Drome o line across column oher dach commont.)

1.

2.

WHITE

NOY 2 5 1963

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

DUP

Of

8.

Philipo

REPRODUCTON PROHIBSSI

-33

25

1963

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORSA

3-02

TO USEDIRON

REVIOU:

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

0000233

57OF71

---

## Page 82

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

sECREF

ROUTING

TO

• 8 DiRECTOR

SS 82771

FROM I MEXICO CITY

AGON: C/WH 5 (WH COPY ISSUED 1300 25 NOV/0J)

INFO..!

DEl, D/DCI,

DDP,

C/SAS 5, D/OS 2,

ADDP, C/SOD: 4, C/CA 2j C/CA/0:2, c/CI, C/F.2,: C/SR 53

CECRET 25/17217

IMMEDIATE DIR

EITE MEXI 7855/

2.5 Now 63 1 6 7 6 20

RUSAT

1. MEXI DAILY "EXCELSIOR" OF 25 NOV IMPLYING OWN INVESTIGATIONS RAN

STORY DESCRIBING OSWALD TRIP TO MEXICO 26 SEPT THRU 3 UCT. CROSSED

BRORDER AT LAREDO. VISITED CUBAN EMBASSY 27 SEPT AND

NEXT

DAY WENT

TO

SOVIET EMBASSY. PURPOSE ALLEGEDLY WAS TO OBTAIN VIS

IET UNION. THIS

NOT OUR LEAK. CANNOT ELIMINATE GOBERNAR

SOURCE.

2. FYI: PRESUME HQS IS AW

STORY DATELINED HAVA 7 SEPT

1963. AT RECEPTION AT BRA

EMBASSY FIDEL CASTRO IS QUOTED: " WE

ARE PREPARED TO FIGHT THEM AND: ANSWER IN KIND. UNITED STATES LEADERS

SHOULD THINK (REFLECT?) THAT IF THEY ARE AIDING TERRORIST PLANS IO

ELIMINATE THE CUSAN LEADERS, THEY THEMSELVES WILL NOT BE SAFE."

3. PARA ONE STORY WENT RECORDS OAICERDAXNP

authorized:

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 1,6 APR 1976

EL&STIPDET CL BY 012208

Signed:

R.0. g1 - Unit

C//R+A

Di 200..

V /Note:

If dastruction,

cite

Document Numbor.

89-33

reasons and coordinate

1I eppropriate.

for FOlA Review on

APR 1976

201-289248

-200541

25N0U63-

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Cocked o'

Some :

Copy Nio..

58.0F.71

0000234

---

## Page 83

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

UNCLASSIFIED

•"ERNAL

ONLY

CONFY "NTIAL"

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Oplionol)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

EXTENSION

TO, (Officer designation, roam number, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FONMAROZO

Phelia

25.11096 N

NIX 2 5 1533

SECRET

NO.

DATE

WAVE 8149-6710

NOV. 2 5 1963

COMMENTS (Numbor each commons to shom from whom

to whom.

Drom a line across column after ooch commani.)

This call Wis

HEARD BY LOTS OF

pEopLE

DUP

RODUCTION PROHI

1523

SCOTT

WHITE

NON 2,5517

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

15.

FOP.MA

3-62.

- PERNARE WORTN

MENTIOLINE

AT STAFF

MEETING. - TO SHOW

NOW INSECURE

INTENHATANAL CILS

ARE,

610 EATENOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

0000235

UNCLASSIFIED

590F71

---

## Page 84

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGS

SECRET

ROUTING

& !

¿ DIPECTOR

3

=ROM

• JARVAVE

ACTION; SAS 8

NFO

i DOP, Cl,

C/035, FI, FO/INT, WH7, VR

95-9777 2522217

DIR INFO MEXI CITE WAVE 9149

TYPIC

Ữ To 63 N 67731

1. ODFOAL ADVISED WAVE IHAI PHONE CALL FROE ONE JOSE SAN ANTONIO

CABACA IN MEXICO CITY (PHONE 186354) TO DR. EMILIO NUNEZ PONIUONDO,

MIANI, WAS MONITORED 24 NOVEMBER 63. CONVERSATION WAS

SNISH

AND GIST. OF IT IS: PLAN OF CASTRO CAPRIED FORWARD

IS NEXT.

SOON THE ATOMIC BOMBS WILL RAIN AND THEY W

A van

KNOW FROM WHERE.

...?.

WAVE TRACES NUNEZ REVEALS HE

1221-312304.

NO RECORD CASACA. HOVEVER,

ISED CABACA IS FROBABLY JOSE

ANTONIO CABAREA SAIN, DPOS

1918 PROVINCE LAS VILLAS, CUSA:

CURRENTLY RESIDES MEXICO CITY, PO BOX 3000 AND HAS SAME PHONE

NO. PARA 1 ABOVE. HE IS NOW OCCUPIED WITH OSTAINING MEXICAN VISAS

FOR PERSONS DESIRING LEAVE CUSA: HE IS PRONOUNCED BATISIIANO

AND RICHT IST WITH TIES TO BATISTA GROUPS IN U.S. AND. HEADS THE

ALIANZA PAPA EL PADERESS DE AMERICA.

CLASSIFICATION. REVIEW

CONDUCTED O1_6 APR 1976

3. LOCAL

COFOA? SEING INFORMED RE PAPA 2 INFO.

ELSAMPDET CL BY 0/2208

ET

Document Number 101=5>3

for FOlA Review o9; APR 1976

281-289248

0000236

Er15:

REPRONUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUNO CERCETE PAOGNEITOS

Cigy tid.

600÷71

---

## Page 85

14-00000

D-UNCLASSIFIED

TERNAL

WE ONLY

COM

jENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optionol)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

EXTENSION

1 No.

DATE

706.7

TO:

(Oficer designation, room rumber, and.

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDEO

COMMENTS (Number ooch commens lo show from whor

to whom,. Dram a line across column 'allor ooch commons.)

2.

SCOTF

NOV 2 5. 1963

WHITE

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW. PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

lucini

REPREDUCTION PRONBITED

10.

11.

Philips

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

61D USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

0000237

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

61 0F71

---

## Page 86

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL:

CLASSIFIED 1099 GE

SECRET

03 COPY

ROUTING

4|

• DIRECTOR

ROM " MEXICO CITY

ICTION, C/WH5 (WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED 1430 26 NOV/LMG)

NFO i DEI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, c/SAS 5, VR, D/OS 2, C/SR 5

SE9975 2618387

IMMEDIATE MANA INFO IMMEDIATE DAR CITE MEXI 7067

25 Now 63 IN 68291

1. AT THIS MOMENE STATION OFFICER AND LOCAL

SE CUR ITT. OFFICER

• ARE INTERVIEWING NICARAGUAN WHO CLAIMS THAT ON 18 SEPTEMBER

HE

SAW

LEE OSHALD RECEIVE SIX THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED. DOLLARS IN 33

INSIDE CUBAN EMBASSY MEXI.

2. REQUEST MANA AND DIR ADVISE MEXI OPIM

§RACES GILBERTO

ALVARADO, BORN 31 JAN 1940 CIUDAD

OSAYA, NICARAGUA. CLAIMS

HE AWAITING FALSE MEXICAN DOCUNA

POTON PRIOR RECEIVING SABOTAGE

TRAINING CUBA. SAYS JUAN LORILLO, ROLAN ALVARADO AND CARLOS

FONSECA AMADOR ARE MEMBERS HIS (COMMUNIST?) OR GANIZATION

NICARAGUA.

SEGRET

Document Number 124-54

for FOlA Review on APR 1976

1: 200-5.41

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED D. 24 MAY 1976

_IMPDET CL BY 2/2288

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

The following action 1s

authorized: DE SENSITIZE

Signed:

Hartn

R. 0. #1 - Unst CI/REA

Hote:

If destruction, cite

U00U238

reappsoraatoora1nat201-289248

11 approprlate,

BS COPYI

2096 541

76220063

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUNG OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

L2oFZ1

---

## Page 87

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGRO

11016:

UNIT

412.03.

ROSING

DATF.

JOIN M. MILITEN

Listy

C/ vaI/3

O INDIY

5613

O NO IMIX

9 DECELIBER 1963

CJ FILE IN CS FILE: NO.

5

9 DEC 83

817z

TO

LIXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF.: C./WH 4

INFO: D:1, 0/DCI, DDP: 6/01, 0/C1/21, VP

SIG GEL

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

MEXI

INFO

RYBAT GPFLOOR

CITE DIR

87770

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

REF:

MEXT 7241 (IN 73638) *

TANS

PIS DO NOI ERASE ANY SOVIET OR CUBAN TAPES UNTII, FURTHER NOTICE.

ADVISE HOW MUCH MORE TAPE IOU NOD

END OF MESSAGE

DOC. MICRO. SER

DEC 4 1974

MICROFILMED

C/S Comment:*Station to erase routire tapes Soviet Embassy, keep-

ing normal two-week lag.

Rins

Pit:

112:

RECORiS

Dearl PacGary

REPRODUCTION

800

lording ti

Sirne?:

-Hait

R.O. Al. "": CIO"S

Note:

If cos

1t0

CS COPY

reasons

and

coordinto

If appropriato.

201-289248

D-200-5-41

Document Number

354-719

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

MAY 1976

CONDUCTED ON.24 MAY 1978

for FOlA Review on

By Direction of

RICHARD FITS

RELEASING

DIT DDP

IMPDET C. BY 1:2301

COORDIMATING OFFICERS

Ercluded l

automatic

SECRET

salading and

declassilication

AUTHENTICATIN

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

0000220

63 oF 71.

---

## Page 88

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG : :

UNIT

EXT:

DATE.:

J.

M.

WHITFEN: Ca/

C/NH/3

INDEX:.

5613

• NO INDEX

4. MAX 1964

I FILE IN CS FILE NO

12-62

ROUTING

4êlsY 508 621;

•TO

137

MEXICO CITY

FROM:

DIRECTOR

file

SIE CEM

CONf :

NO 8

C/WH: 4

DEFERRED

BE ROUTINE

DCS, D/DCI,

DDP, C/CI, C/C1/s1, C/CI/RA, VR

MEXI

INFO

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FUEPR

08827

ESTART GPFLOOR

WARREN COIMISSION REQUESTS HE FURNISH FOLLOWING INFO:

needed dust

20 02e

A.

HOURS WEEN CUBAN AND SOVIET EMBASSIES AND

CONSULATES IN ABXICO CITY ARE OPEN TO PUBLIC:

'HEIR

NORMAL WORXING HOURS.

THEIR PROCEDURES

FORMAL AND INFORMAL INVOLVED IN

TRAVEL TO AND THROUGH CUBA

B. - DESCRIPTION OF

MEXICAN GOVER

TO AND THROUGE CUBA

REPRDONCTION

OLATIONS,

BRUITS FOR

ONE AND RELATIONS OF

TRAVEL OF PaPrIME CITIZENS

2:

REQUEST MEXI CABLE SUMMARY OF ALL THAT CAN BE ASCSETAINED

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

ace1os 1s

END OF MESSAGE

send: Sait

2.0.#1 71 -Ürit

ioto:

: If destructica,

cite

reasons and coordinate

12 appropriato.

Document Number

677-289

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

copy

to C1/R$A

201-289248

0000240

- RATORD

HERBERT

AC/WH

CS COPY

COORDINATING OFFICERS

JOHN M.

WHITTEN

C/ VH/3

REHEASING OFFICER

GROUP 1

Exciuded tram-stomatic

déclassification

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

SECRET

D-200-5-4% DUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/20.05

640F71

---

## Page 89

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

TO

: DIRECTOR

-SEGRET

Haitin

114

ROUTING

4

FROM • MEXICO CITY

ACTION:

c/vr 4

INFO " ,

D6l, D/DG1, DDP, C/CI, GuggsuS OFICER STAMP

He Orwalk

T'üe 101

Jowing

authar

SENSITIZE

11T 0701847

DIR CITE MEXI 9332

TSUn 64177522

PAY TAT GPFLOOR

8. 0. 12 - 0215 C//R+A

Note:

IT dostruction, oite

REF DIR 18827%

reasons and coordinate

1. SOVIET EMB AND CONSULATE ARE

SULATE ATL TOUT OPEN TO PUBLIC. OFFICES

ARE IN COMPOUND ACCESSIBLE TO PUBLIC BY APPOINTMENT.

•SOVIET GUARDS

ARE ON OUTSIDE GATE AROUND CLOCK. NORMAL WORK HOWA

1963

WERE DODO TO 1800 BUT RECENTLY CHANGED 09000

WEED MONDAY AND

FRIDAYS. SIXIEEN SOVIET FAMILIES LIY

COMPOUND. VISITORS RING

BELL AT GATE AT ALL HOURS.

RUSS

SPEAKERS CAN GET IN ANYTIME.

OTHERS USUALLY TURNED

ARD AFTER HOURS:

SOVIETS ARE

NO'T

KNOWN

TO ISSUE PERMITS

RAVEL CUBA.

2. CUBAN EMB. AND CONSULATE IN SAME COMPOUND BUT HAVE SEPARATE

ENTRANCES, CONSULATE RECEIVES VISITORS FROM IG60 TO 1400 HOURS

MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY. EMBASSY WORKING HOURS ARE FROM BODE TO 1705

HOURS SAME DAYS BUT MOST EMBASSY VISITORS

USUALLY ATTENDED BEFORE

1402 HOURS, THESE HOURS ALSO APPLIED DURING SEPT 63.

201-289248

3. CUBAN EMB PROCEDURES AND REGULATICNS FOR ISSUING PERMITS

FOR TRAVEL TO AND THROUGH CUBA: VISAS NORMALLY VALID FOR THREE

KONTHS FRON DATE OF ISSUECO,PRIOR AUTHORIZATION FROM HABANA INVARIABLY

Document Number 68.3291

for FÜlA Review on

JUN 1976

-200-5-41

-SECRET

REPRODUCTION.BY OTHER-THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

0000241

650F71

---

## Page 90

14-00000

See Sanitized Filo

LASSIFIED MESSAGE

29,

SECRET

IN 27522 PAGE 2

-For sterliacap of this,

REQUIRED, BEFORE ISSUANCE ANY VISA: APPLICANT COlPLETES VISA

APPLICATION FORM AT CONSULATE, PERMISSION OFTEN OBTAINED

IN EXCHANGE OF CABLES BETWEEN EMBASSY AND MINREX HABANA. IN MANY

CASES VISAS ISSUED ON SEPARATE SHEET PAPER IN EFFORT CONCEAL FACT

OF TRAVEL.

4A MEXICAN GOVI PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS RE TRAVEL PBPRIME

CITIZENS TO AND THROUGH CUBA UNCHANGED. SINCE HAMA 20887 DATED 3 MAY

1

1963. PEPRIME CITIZENS WITH PASSPORTS AND CUBAN VISAS

ARE FREE TO

TRAVEL TO CUBA. PBPRIME CITIZENS CAN OSTAIN TOURIST CARDS

ROM

MEXICAN CONSUL HAVANA FOR RETURN VIA MEXICO.

C/S Cornment: *Warren Commission requested

and Soviet Emtassies and Consulates in Mes

wosking sours; toeir procedures and reg

issuing permits for travel to and thro

BROT

K furnisa hours when Cubas

are open to public; their zormal

formal and informal levolved in

S8227

136108.16161

0000242

SECRET

t6of 71

---

## Page 91

14-00000

Inside Washington

210ct 64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War i

By ROBERT. S. ALLEN

cials who

actively oppose

on has yet to be

used

dismissal of such persons

And PAUL SCOTT

liquid

-Soviet

policies.

against

any

high

West-

from public office, at oth

form.

Th

Titled "Soviet Strategic

ern

official, hundreds of

er times

even having

• within se

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

Executive

Action,"

the

KGB agents

covertly op-

them eliminated' physi-

•autopsy.u

The

Central Intelli

suppressed

CIA

docu-

erating outside of Russia

cally

its

use.

gence

Agency

withheld

ment went into the shock-.

have

been

supplied with

"Such

activities

poisons ha

intelligence

infor-

ing details of how agents. this

pocket-size,

gun,

known to be

undertaken

ed which

• mation from

the Warren

of KGB, the Soviet secret

awaiting

only

against other

types

fect

until

Commission during its in-

police, are trained to

from Moscow to

orders

of

use it.

persons in the West, not-. after bein;

vestigation

sination.

the

o President

away

with

Western lead-

The

Murder

Weapons

ably

defectors from

thus allow

ers, including officials in

of

the

the

U.S.S.R.

and.

from

other

to

be far 1

Kennedy.

the

U.S.,

HIGHLIGHTS

and to

make

suppressed

intelligence

countries

of

the

Soviet

when

his

Despite

the commis

their deaths

appear

due

estimate, which is locked

КДо

sion's written request for:

ta: natural causes.

in a security

area within

bloc.

recently reported

"A

ha

all documents that might

•One of the KGB's new.

CIA,

ation technique is

pneumatici

shed

light

on

the assas

ly

the

tightly-guarded

devised

assassination

are

as

follows:

socute an individ-

poison

ice

sination,

CIA authorities

wapons is "a: pnumati-

"It

has

been

repo

Juring

him

to

whích

failed to turn over a na-

cally operated poison ice.:

that the

KGB

tional

elephone,

connect-

or other e

intelligence

esti-

atomizer, • which

leaves.

to remover

to a high-voltage wire,

-cause of d

mate

warning

that it

is

no.

wound or: other

'evi

Soviet intere

during a

thunderstorm.

Congress

Kremlin policy to remove

dence of the cause of-

certain me

"Another

gators.

from

involves

the

wh

public office by

death.'

pistol

which

the r

sassination

Western offi-

While this deadly weap

tim

of

for;the • projects a poison gas in :

committee

Docume

OTHER

du

со-ех.

istence

ress

that

the. Warsen

Commis

Sion's

indings might

leen

different

it.

his.". CIA: 'estionat

and

Dider.

decaments

sup

pressed by.

the 'State De

partment had been avail

able for. study..

They

out.

that

the State Departmeat

suppressed evidence link-

ing

Oswald with one

of

employes,.. mbo

as.

cording to security. files,

"presented

strong pro-

Soviet views

.on

every

question

that came.

• in

the Department's

U.S.S.R.

colatry commit.

tee"

while he

was in

membe state Department

This

Dificial's.

pearer

name also

ap

the

address

look of a suspected So

Tie thee

agent

who

arrived

U.S. in

1943, ac

cording to - goverument

Eles.

Congressional investi.

gators

2150°

have been

shocked to discover that

ssmation

idministration

•officials to Speaker John

McCormack (Mass.),

next

in. line to succeed Presi

dent Johnson

While FBI officials

warned Speaker McCor

mack,.

dedicated

antl:

Commimist, that he is on

the list of Westem

offi

cials feared by the Krem

Im,

no

CIA

authority

inas shown the No. 2 man

in government

the CIA

report

listing these.

•cret

Soviet assassination

methods.

instead,.

Mc C ormack

learned about the report

only

recently.

from con

gressional

probers

who

are trying.

to - determine

why

the

document has

been suppressed.

The investigators

also

Te tryme

determine

why the CIA in its pre

assassination

report

the State Department on

•Oswald's trip to Mexico

City gave details only

the defector's visit to

the

Russian embassy

and not

the

Cuban embassy.

The

CIA did

not

report

the

latter

visit

after

Kennedy's

assassination

in

Dallas.

p- 8593

The caller forthe

Simbass

as un dential

6000243

675F71-

---

## Page 92

14-00000

00U0244

Inside Washington

210cL.64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War ren Commission

By KOBERT S. ALLEN

cials who actively oppose

on has

yct to

be

dismissal of such persons

lquld

or

compressed

And PAUL SCOTT

-Sovict

policies

1EH1ES

any

hilgh

West

srom puparr asfice, d6 014

The gas

AkR1.

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

Executive

reued " Nietsy ese

ein

official, hundreds of

times

having

tlihlt

KCB

CIA

agents

covertly

seconds

ind

winc cenirar thkett-

SUDITLAAH

docu-

rating outside

Russia

them

physi

autopsy would not reycal

Ladd.

Non-trace a ble

Agency

withheld

ment ivent into the shock.

supplied with

• ane.

• Doron nave 1ec0i

muobr

vital

intclligence

infor-

ing

have

details of how agents

the Warren

this

pocket-size,

actlvitles

be undertaken

muOn 1ron

of KGB,

the Soviet

secret

a wai

meainst

fect uch s ver l heufs

ponce,

nallen1

DTUTU

iLONeUW LO

untll

Commission during its in-

the

several

hours

with

Murder

West,' not-

after

being administered,

western

• The

""TTE

Thus ahowin: an assas5l

sination

nenuuuy.

the

away

President

boat

ineud ngo fi aiake

HIGHLIGHTS

and from

other

be far from the

scene

th e

and

make

•0S.S.R.

commis-

ineir

nelan

appcar dut

estimatc,

which

Soviet

when

his

cinn'c tvrilen trsuoa 110.

maLtora

Murer

SCNUTALY

all documenls that might

Onc of

Te.

light

a5515.

the kub's new.

tightly-guarded

follows:

waLnl1

CIA

knowledgeable

le recently

reported

TUUnLI

Umerlned

nl0 Lecnlole 14

opera t e d'

on

ly

CIA

authoritics

Srocute an indlvid-

wawwtis

DaJIdo 10

rurr

wwer&

watiy

operated

KGB

him

retheyenthe endreay

cóme co.

poison

ice

other

evldence of the

Trona l

TOMIAN

TELNN

С"TULI4L

TaCauar

or death.

matc

intellayence

warning

that

wound

Dlitr.Cre.vooVr.110121. 1008401

woeee2aClennlnu8:

public

certaln membets of West.

Hs514404

offi-

arranging

projecis

involves

which

son gas 'in

that

Fato the

who

have

asked

of their

• committee

be

withheld

for

security

port

John

that

reasons

ClA

re.

McCone

made

of this explosive

documeni

his

JeurC

1esnIoony

Warren

beforc

Commission.

the

While NcCone furnish-

ed the commission with

the CIA's secret

surveil-

LaJCE

renorL.

Let

narvey

days

in Mexico

Nexico Ciy

cight

fore the assassination

cludine

Wals

contacl

8.58:

with

the

nexle

KGB

Soviet

ayent 1

inle

embassy

there

the

CIA

chief

gave

hint

of

the

Kremlin's as

TSSInALIeT

policy.

KEONLNUSY OX 86

Documerte SiaMccorm to sMase), 1oht

Du expees

.s, very

Intenl

• McCormack

:du-:

In

Jine to succeed "Presi

co-ax:

isto ce inre nt

:бtrc6a

thơ

that

Wanlo fes olsictasn

Whilo

•Commis

sion's

warned

Speaker

anve

this

beca durcrong ad

.other

CIA: eStiferen

docaments

the. list of

Western

cinls teared by the KremW

authority

has shown the Nou thrity l

government

aisting ihese

folen

p.8593

Who tatad

to these

guep

---

## Page 93

14-00000

DISPATCH

Ellafiatrico

PROCESSING ACIIO.N

MARKED FOR INDEXING

INFO.

Chief of Station, Mexico City

FRONd

SUAJECT

Chief, WH Division

O Lee Harvey OSWALD

LOTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

NO INDEXING REQUIREO

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

SA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAT

-RELEASE IN FULL

MICROFILM

1999

Action Required:

Please advise re negatives

In view of recent reopening of the publicity regarding

Lee Harvey OSWALD and WOFACT evidence, Headquarters would

like to determine whether the Station still has on hand

the negatives from which the prints

were made of the unidentified

available at Headquarters

both the Soviet and. Cuban Embassies.

"mystery man" coming. out of

on file,

If they are still

it is requested that they remain

be forwarded Headquarters for retention rather than

so, and that they

destroyed

if the latter action is ever contemplated.

5, Brect

HeAd quaRteRs

Request foR H

negatives

of the unidentified

leaving both the Souret

EmbAssies

REPRODUC

Elsie I. SCALETTI

KBITE

MAN"

Cubar

Distribution:

2 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CSHK

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HBIE-15488

CLASSIFICATION

RI

Chrono

Oswald

(soft

filed

OFFICE

WH/1

-

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE.

Nel 1:2

OFFICE SYA80L

C/WH/1

CATE

ABOTPLEL X

53

USE HREVIOUS EDITION.

MFG.1.80

16.9. 0f 71

SAME AS

1061-964

201-289248

& 8 MAY 1957

DATE

18

Hay

1967

GROUP 1

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-289248

declasellication

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

EXT

sas

6954

COORDINATING

OFFICERS HAME

0000245

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURÈ

DISPATCH

---

## Page 94

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

-RELEASE IN FULL

1999

: INFO.

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

FRON

NO INDEXINO REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

Chief, WH Division

I SUBJECT

Lee Harvey OSWALD

AOTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

MICROFILM

Action Required: Please advise re negatives

Lee

In view of recent reopening of the publicity regarding

Harvey OSWALD and WOFACT evidence, Headquarters would

like to determine whether the Station

still has on hand

the regatives from which the prints available at Headquarters

were made of the unidentifled "mystery man" coming out of

both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies.

on file,

_If they are still

It is requested that they remain so, and that they

be forwarded Headquarters for retention rather

destroyed if the latter action is ever contempt

lip of

1051-964

COS

PRUT

SCALETTI

dispat.

is keep

ABR

mas

CAS

34 MAY

RoS: I pershally checked is

Distribution:

2 - COS, Mexico City

IN LIMITED phat.

for 1 Oct 1963. RisK.

GROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMY- 15488

CLASSIFICATIDNI:dEd

darting and

*спІр

declassificallog

3317.C0l

DATE

18 May 1967

HQS FILE NUMBER

201-289248

9-8593

6000246

708F71

---

## Page 95

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

L

SURJEGE: (Optional)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

TO: (Officor designation, room numbor, and

building)

DATE

ScRo

RECEINIO

FORWARDED

2.

3.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

PHAL

CONFE NTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

EXTENSION

NO.

MEXI 7034

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Numbor ooch commons lo show trom whom

to whom.

Drow a line across column offor each commons.)

DUP

59-23

PEPPORUCTION PRCHIBIIED

he'll have Subst

new added later

day work

P- 8593

10.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

C000247

610 USEOITIONS

REVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

9709:71

---

## Page 96

14-00000

=..;

SUQUECTI (Optionall

EXTENSION

FROM:

AOTION COPY

TO:

(Officor designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

7hay7

2.

WITE

3.

₫.

.

NO.

meXI

923?

DATE

DOCK

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Drow a line across column after each comment.)

Dupof

693-291

REPROOUCTION PROMBIED

Apesture

10.

12.

13.

15.

FORIA

3-02

Phellyn

Fals

610 USEDITIONS

PREVIOUS.

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

Lee Harry OswAr?

p.8593

INTERNAL

UNCLASSIFIED

• USE ONLY

0000248

2

---

## Page 97

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVE PROGRAM SEGRET

RELEASE IN FULL

1999.

Memo passad tu Mai Papich if FBI 27 November 3963

with into aN piato couciage afombassios

aMeNto oN KOSTIROr.

•e heve photographio coverays during daylight hours or lui

JsGH, Chini, Giachuslova and Fullah Erbausics. Thri consulites

ase loratad in the embussien.ion thorciore tre coveraga si tha

embasalca moulá include corelago di lu cuobuliton.

T'he shotographie coveriego ri lee mentioned lastallationg is of

¿ cantiquons rature during dagilm huurs, lowver, visather

condiziona dad cines factor t alierting day photogras

550-

quise tiã the severage mt di considered e:

inaniuta.

Dur

neiul for idontlication

Di all possong who anter or

ch lastallations.

riter criming

aCES On KOSTIÑOV, VO RIE INViDÇSU

Joyni reazonablo dount thii li is i stati aficri di the kiGli.

Contributing to this concluvion are his ausocisica, bis moverezis,

his Meritorn and older contacto anl lia cover vosliion, as vedi au

hio javalvernert in tha =

operation, :

105 07 02300

70 bellave that ba la connected with to 13th Dopastmost, KOSI ISOV

Was lu cladestine contact wis tr

as deflaltaly con-

Ramed byr

pauto Ilentlitcation) aud arzaged

cretact in the U. 5. With a KGB collezyue ni sOStTo

Document: Number 182-621

for FOiA linviow on APR 1976

RECORD COPY

1S9 ESE)

CLASSIFICATION REVIEN

CONDUCTED ON 4 HAY 197ē

E_ IMPDET OL Pr 01Z ZUP

XAAZ

3590

NN 3E-9

LE :.1."

JFK # 063

I copy ot?

0000249

27M0°

301-287245

-SECRET

(D)

---

## Page 98

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

DTG.

NUMbER.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

DIR

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INFO.

INITIALS

INITIALS

CITE

6582

HIDXT NONSER

RIBAT GPFLOOR

RUE: DIR 18827

683

1. SOVIEI EUS AND COISULATE ARE NOI OPEN TO PUBLIC.

OFFICES ARE IN COPL

POUID ACCESSISLE TO PUBLIC BY APPOLNIMSI. SOVIET GUARDS ARE OS OUISIDE GATE

AROUIVD CLOCE.. HONHAI, WORK HOURS SIP 1965 VERE 0900 IO 1800 BUT RECSITY CHANGED

0700 10 1400 HAFDAY THROUGH FRIDAY, SOV CONSULATE FREQUEFILY CHANGE. NOW OPEN

1200 IO 1300 VOIDAYS AND IIIRAYS. SIXVERT SOVISI PAMILIES LIVE IN COMPOUND.

VISTIORS RISE BELL AI GAVE NI ALI, IXES HOURS. BUSSIAN STI

S CAT GET IN

ANTITHE. OLERS USUALT TURNOD AHAT EX GUARD AFTE

BOVIES ARE NOT

BROITE TO ISSUE PEENITS FOR TRAVEL CUBA,

2. CUBAN EMB AND CONSULATE IL

POUND BUI HAVE SEPARATE. ENVIRANCES.

CONSULATE RECEIVIS VISTTORS

TO 1400 HOURS MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAR.

EMBASS FORKING HOURS

SET 0900 TO ITOO HOURS SAME DAYS EUT HOST EMBASSY

ISTIORS USUALLY ALLENDED ERVORE 1400 HOURS. THESE HOURS ALSO APPLIED DURING

SEFT 63.

3. CUBAN IVIB PROCEDURES AND REGULALIONS FOR ISSUING PERMIUS FOR TRAVEL, TO

AND LEROUGH CUBA: VISAS HORIALLY VALID FOR THRME MORIAS FROM DATE OF ISSUE.

PRIOR AUTHORIZALION FEOM HABANA LNVARTABLY REQUIRED BEFORE ISSUANCE ANY VISA.

APPLICANT COMPLETES VISA APPIICATION FOR AI CONSULATE, PERHISSION OWEN OBIALISD

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000250

---

## Page 99

14-00000

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALO

ота.

NUMDIA

INITIALO

INFO.

=2.

CITE

3332

NUNSER

IN EXCHANCE OF CABLOS BEIVELE ELMASSY AID MINNEX HABANA, II BAHY CASES TISAS

ISSUED UTI SPARATE SHEDT PAPER II EPFORI CONCEAL FACT OF TEAVEL..

4, LEXICAN GOVI PROCIDURES AID REGULLTIONS RE TRAVEL PEPRIME CUNTZSKS TO

AND TEROUGH CUBA UNCHANGED SINCE FISA 20887 DATED 3 HAY 1963. PEPPIE CIZENS

FIVE PASSPORIS AAD CUBAN VISAS ARE FRUE TO TRAVEL IO CUEL, PEPRIVE CLITZSUS

CAT OFTALY TOURISI CARDS FROM MEXICAN CONSUL, HAVANA FOR RETURN VIA MEXICO.

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

BETGES

iNTICATiNG OFFICER

-.-

LECHOADENT

COORDiNATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

0000251

WECURNIS

RELEASING OFFICER

---

