# 104-10433-10088

## Page 1

1104-10433-10088

s.. 1.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

. n

Le sarci

Tore A0

XXO1D 14531

Gi Biographic Summary on: Robert Scheer

i tails

CI/CP

ROUer

70: ¡Oficer ciesignolion, room numon, ord

building)

DATE

3.2N30%

6537

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

DATE

895 rewritten

$ 7 March 1968

COMMENTS (Numbar sach commons lo snow from ahor

Dras a line across coumn olier soch commons.

RECEiViO

FORWARDED

Prepared by:M. McElligott

20

10.

11.

Distribution:

I - Subject's file

1 - CI Task Group Biographic

Summaries

1 - Orig. for Final Report Typini

_- EX Chrono

12.

13.

740.

15.

f=.n

3-52

610 Lose

SECRET.

USE CIN

WHCL1SS:R19D

---

## Page 2

13-00000

FX-995 (rewritten)

GILBA, ROGErE (201-100750)

7 March 68

robert sontad is tanscios luitor of ladzarts saga-

2. Movert SCilsh attended suetings of the labor Youth

iangue (cited by the house Coumittee on Un-inorican Activi-

ties (HUA) us a Connuaist front organization), •He 1a5 a

officeholder in Fair Play for Cuba Connittee, dominateo by.

the Socialist Norkers Party: He was in corruspondoncy with

¿no North Viernasase journalists in London.. The Connist

Party USA supported lis candidacy for U.S. Congress

in

Juns- 1966, and attempted to have CP Soviot Union uso lIs

influenco viti North Vietnamese officials to permit SCHEER

to ¿ravel to North Vietnam.

He visited Prague late January

1907 as guest.of the Clech Governont and consulted with

leaders of

the Internazional laion of Students (Sorior

controlled organization)." Me has been an active opponeat

to U.S. involvenert in Viotnan.

3. Infornation recaivod fron the FBI reflects the

folloving:

RODEIT SCHEER iS the son of Frederich Jacob SCHEER;

vora 28 May 1339, Gersany, U.S. Citizen, and Ida (nee CURAN)

SLASER, born 28 April 1900, Russia, non-u. S. Citizen.

Frederich SCitER joined the Intornational vorkers Order in

jovenber 1941 and was a mender of Lodge 500 as Late as 1053-1

¡is jano appeared on an origiaal petition to Judge il. I.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CLASSIFICATION REMEN

CONDUCTED ON

CONDUCTED ON 26 pray 1926

__IMPDET. CL BY_

FULL TEXT COPY - DO RAT ReLEAsE

3 IMPOET CL BY 058. 723

---

## Page 3

13-00000

• .

ublid protesting the trial of the lational Connittse of the

Lomunisi Pariy, ü.5.i. lua müran SchneR joined se Inter-

malional norkurs Uruer la sarca 1047 and Nas a member of

Longe 500 as lato as 1955. (International Workers OrdeI bas

seun designated by tiao ditorney Gonaral.)

ROboIt SCHEER statod during a Governent intervier

indi mailo in collage de

atzonded a fow nootings which ia

felt weie rus by soneone who cöuld have been in the Labor

Youth League (LiL) and that su hai attended one social event

unica ha felt uas dufinitaly sponsored by the LYL.

SCHEER

further statod that he had never attended any political

nastings of tis Lil end that ho has never beea a nenber of

the Coasunist Party or any organization cited by

the Artorney;

Ceneral. He ausitted having read the Conquaist Manifesto

frequently.: (The ill is citod as.a Communist front orgasi-

zazion by the lcua.), SChaER said thät ho did not consider

tie Connuisi Party USA (CP USA) to ba a threat to the U.s.

and sad no reason lo bolieve that a person who joins the CP

swears allegianca to a foreiga power or advocates the over-

tarox of the U. 5. Covernment. lie stated further thai ho.

beliares that tae CP is not subversiva docausa it claias. to

ve interesied in bringing about its progran through demo-

• iratic processos. d

In 1900 Robert SChleR and his first rife serona

SChirsk contacted tho Cuban Consulate in New York City

concernily a trip to cuba..l/ The Daily Californian of

---

## Page 4

13-00000

; cetober ludd carriod the story that Robert sCleR nad been

i cand in Liod for cho sonin.

Miert Suitin bas Research birector of tis studeat

air Play Eor Cuba Coamitioe (SIPIC) On the Serielay campus

ut ine University of California. Other officenolders of the

SPPiC at the sage tine were: Maurico leIlLid, Secretary

(Sinço January 1968 ho has been Contributing Editor for

: Latin America, hauparts.); and Kichard CURRIER, President.

I: 1960 tha national offico of the Socialist Norkers Party

(SaP) (cited as subyersive by the lICUA) was anxious to

infiltrato and dominato the FPCC.. The files in the nationsi

office of the Sup contained the following infornation on

Robert SCHEER: "Bob SCIEER, originally from N.Y. CCVY, was

in SUA- (Studenis for Denocratic Action), Led Fighi to expoi

iSL

(Socialist Youth League) and told ne that they called

bio = Stalinist. In a political discussion he gave me that.

inpression, too, though he can attack the Soviet linion

beforo a liveral audiance.. Either in pariphery of CP. or

thereabouts (iafluenced), atc." The SUP was apparantly

successful in tbeir efforts. In aay 1951 Asher MARER,

master Of tis 662

National Connittce and of the San Fran-

cisco ranch of the Sap, made a notion before the bay area

of ine FPCC that an exocutivs connittoe of seven nenbers of

the Student Aù Hoc Conaittce of the PPCC be made part of

que Bay Area FPCC. The notion was carried, 3/

3

---

## Page 5

13-00000

inile d stucont ao tuo unliorsity of caligomnis,

•TGLey, dOUSrE COiLOÁ OrgdNiSN LS LO0E ale KEXACt RiCa5,.

• nagazine puulisloù for ind by uliraliberai siudonts üù tio

iniversizj. Tuo 11 lovenuor 1004 adizion of SPuR (ues

Duso1s Cluos df imorica nawslezter) roportoü oi & pancl

discussion sponsored by tho i.b.3. dudois Ciub, the Students

for a jenocratic socioty, nd The ver School. Robert SCiEER.

was to be one of the participants. Ha was doscribed in SPUR

as Cortespondent fox The Bcalist and a menber of Tho New

5ciool. According to the San Francisco Exaniner of 27 May

1965, Rabort SCHEER craveled to Cuba in the suamer of 1964

in defiance of the.U. S. Stato jopartzent.

In. 1965 he was in (nail) correspondence ith Nguyen

Van SAO and Cu Dinh BA, representetives in London of toe:

vorto Vietaarase Comaunist weeily aewspager Cuu Quoe,

jublished in Hanoi. SAO and jd lived and worked at 135

Hethorhall Gardens, llanpstead, Lundon N.w. 5. 1/ : In

February 1905 ho sas in Tobyo, Japas, wharc ho vislied the

oifica of the National Harbor and Ports Labor Union.: He

Lived in a dornitoty of the labor inion for three days. He

travaloù frois Japan to Indonesia for ton days. SCuter lator

stated that lie vas the only inerican at a conferesce in

Indonesia.

bcfOrE

leaving Jupan, SCHEER stated his desirc

io visit comnuaist Cuiaa and coaplained to the japanese..

Lavor linion officials about discrimination in tho ü. S. and

nado durogazory remaris about tha ü. S. The Japanesc Labor

---

## Page 6

13-00000

nios oldicials nonse die Consdiar Chinese in Tolgo about

in gussibility ol Shitll coins to the Chind mainland. SCilsn

11s0 visited Vietnan during this trip. y

jaci das the principal speaker it i desonstration

un 17 april 1905 sponsored by tre d.i.i. Dubois Clubs of

merica and tha dogen for Peace: At a mecting of the Viet-.

nas Day Connittao on 4 DeLobar 1905 to discuss shether to

"violata the iccarran Act, tha Espionage Act of 1017 and other

espionaga laws, SClESR stated: "It is zine to risk treason.

Ma-must totally disassociato ourselves with the u.S. Govere-

ment.". At a teach-to at the University of California on

12. Noveabor 1965 held by the University Conmittee on Vietnan,.

SCHEER stated: "The Viet Cong is a party of peace and if I'

vas in Vietnan I sould be on tho side of the Viet Cong." He

was spotesaan for a six-nenbor delegation fron the Vietnan

Day Coamittee that met on 5 Decenbar 1965 with Vice President

aubert HUNTHREY. at the Naval Air Station, Hoffott Field,

California. y:

In Fabruary 1966 SCHEER, accompanica by his (second)

wife Anne (nee NEILLS) and Stanley SCHEINBNUX (Consulting

Editor, haaparts), visited Cambodia by invitation from Princo

SIHAOUK. They also visited Thailand and

Vietnaa.: Au

announcedent vas nade it a Connunist Fariy Contact Class,

031 Raúsood Sireet, San Francisco, that SCilER left California

on 4 February 1900 and sould possibly visit North Vietnai.

To fusczionaries of the CP agreed that an effort should be

5

---

## Page 7

13-00000

indo to assist sillth in his attorts to obruin sonission to.

goa Vlotans, do it least do strange an latervier for dia

•I the Morta Viotnamese Labassy in Cancodin. M Sources

ms have curnished rclisble inforution in the past reported

chat the CP USA was naking arrangenents with the CP Soviet

inion to pornit Stills to entor dorth Vicinal in order that

he might confor with the lecdership of the CP.of North

Viatsan. Upon his arrival in Caabodia ca. 15 February 1966,

as sould visit the Morti Viotnanesy Enbassy and. roguest

peraission to enter Nortà Vietnau..

The CP USA urged the CP

Suriet Union to prevail upon the Central Connittée of the

worth: Vietnanese CP to permit SCIER to enter. In this

connection, the C? USA noted chai. in tho ovent SCHEER was.

clected to tao U. 5: Congross-in Novender 1950 (SQiEck.was:

running as a "peace candidato"), SCIBER would support the

sorist cause

for peace and attack the "inited States

imporialist tactics on a nationvide scale."

in articlo in the New York Herald Irioung of

13 March 1206 idantified Robert SCHEER as a fomor University

oi califonia graduate student of Chinese studies. Ane

SCIEER (nes WEILLS) Has a subscribor in 10ó0 under the nose

Anne WEIlLs to che People's jorid Cliest Coast

Connunist

newspaper).

Robert SOliER was a candidate in the Democratic

Party primary clection in June I90ó for the offico of

Congressaan fros tha. Ith Districi of Califoria, opposing

---

## Page 8

13-00000

incuzuent Joffrey COHELEN, The "ücheer for Congress Commit-

lee" (shich

Lücir bocano the Committee for icy Politics) jas

¡orsoo and its platfor called for opposition toü. 5.

involremont in tio Vietnan war, and furthor and contiruing

involvenent by U.S. Governuent in the war on poverty and

civil rights. Vy A group that supported SCHEER's candidacy

was started by Daniel SINON, M.D. and was nade up of

professionals and businessacs who opposed U.S. involvenent

in the. Yiotnam. war. (See Attachment 1 for list of known

cHUOrSOrS tO SCilER'S candidacy.). The CP supported SCHEER

in sis caupaigi, and. Carl BLOICE vas released fron his job

on tha editorial staff of the Peopla's World to work full

tize in the campaiga. Carl BLOICE, Rosçoe PROCTOR, and:

Mickey LIsA, Choiran of tha Hortborn Califomiu District

of the CP, planned the strategy for the CP's role in

SClER's caspaigo. / DI. Ephrain KAHN, CP menber, was

reported as manager of the caupaign.

Robert KAUFHAN, member

of the bast jay C? Industrial Club, sarved as labor relations

ma- The M.E.3. Dusois Club ia Sea Francisco supported

SCHEER and actively campaignod for hiu. l

At a rooting of discussion Unlimited on 2 December

156ó Is LOS digelos, SCHEER Led a

vicious attack against the

Suviet Union, against the Stalin Era, against crines comnitted

in the sorier Union against the jewish people and Jerish

culture,

and against other ruligious people and intellectuals

in she soviet Union. He said thai the soviet inion as a sick

7

---

## Page 9

13-00000

inciuty just is the l. s. is i sick society. S/ (iiscussion

iliaited mas foraou in 1902 in 10s dageles und is made 1p

liriely of present or fomer CP acaders.

On 13 APTil 100O SCHEER Get With ZiSULE BROGLAREd,

inshington, li. t. correspondent for Isybuna Luáu, Polisa

jaily neuspaper and official organ of the polish uniçod

¡oriers (Connuist) Party. He spolo at a rally pe the Spring

Mobilization Cosmiitoe against the var in Vietnan in San

Francisco on 15 April 1965. On 29 Hay 1966 he was

a speader

at a nesting in Berseloy, California sponsored by the Bay

Area Young socialist Allianca sad the SWP. to protest tha

shooting of Leo BERNArD at the botrole Sup office. Atel

negling on 233June 1956 of the Connunist for New Politics

Dersoloy, SCHEEL vaS- Introduced but didinot speak: Tho onl

speaker at the nooting vas Fells GREENE, (a contributor to

Reapares), ano spole ou his recoat trip to Red China and

sorts Vietnas. V. At a seetlog on February 1966 of the:

Santa Barbara Club, Southera California District, CP:

"illian TAYLOR stated that living tAUCkS (201-827307

reported iuvastor of $50,000 in Ramparts) of the Center for

Lie Study of Denocratic Institutions, Santa Barbara, Would

donate $10,000 lor a peace candidate and it was oxpecied

that this vould so to scHeR's campaign. l/ SCHeER bas:

jefcaied in the prinary election. The San Francisco Exiaor

of 12 July 1960 reported thaI SGiEER spent 357,834 on his

coapaign, sore than one and one half tines as such as its

---

## Page 10

13-00000

"lichene spini.

Tio article continued that slitta bust ny

,do voces, i cusi of p2.)à for caci voto ne vol.

Roburt SCisEs, iccompanied by James disall, dopartod

ItO U. S. Ou 13 JulY 1907 for Cairo, EgypE t0 interviex

Presidont NASSER and writo au article for kanparts ca the var

in tie Middle East.

JADeS AYSANI is of Lubirose origia and

clains to laow PreSideDE NASSER.

le was to be used as- con-

"tact aas for SCHEER in Egypi.: James ANSARA Mas diszissed by

the Departaont of State ca, 1947 as he vas cousiderad to be

i security risc. He is probably the father of Michael S.

AYSARi, Staff iriter for Raaparts.. It was reported that

SCHEER planned to attond the Latin Marican Solidarity

Organization conference la Cuba hela 28 July Fo 5 Augusto

1967, xouting bis travel froa Calro to tao vi s. via Spain

and Cuba. Tlere has beon no confirazion of his presence:

at the conference..

RODETE SCIFER tas a menter of tho

staoring cornittee

at the lazional Conference for Nen Politics hold in Chicago

29 August to 4 September 1967.

In a syndicated articie by

pruCe BIOSSAT, published in the Sarkeley Düily Gazatte of

12 Septenber 19ó7, BIOSSAT sadü Ele colloring renaris.

relating to ilobori SCHEER:. "Ferhaps the strangest perfor-

!

wance of the thole

incrodiole drana was that of Robert

§cheer.. On one convention day, SalLER stood before

tila

asseablou delogates and eloqueatly pleaded with the whites

to purge theaselves of solf-contempt and seli hate...The

9

---

## Page 11

13-00000

* 0.160

aãt ung, do the scarily dominant inite radical delugates

signaly soned to ilaci caucus proposals taut incitied tio

liveliag of uost whites as 'saviga beasts' Schels caved in

and nilliogly onuorsed all but a deliberucely infloanatory

condonnatiou of Israol for conducting an 'iaperialisi

Zionist war'." I/

The Berkolay CVP hold a conference on 13 Septender

1967 to discuss the Chicago convenzion. joberi SCHEER:

stated that the berksley CUP group voted against tho Black

Poses group's proposed 15 points because the 13 poists vare

forced on the convention

without any discussion. Ho said that

he thought the Black Power group reprosented nore Negro.

groups than the vaite radicals did and that the 15 points

seened like a Leninist. progran compared to the progran of

the waite radicals.. V

RoDert SCHEER is listed as one of tho fousders of

the Peace and Fisadon Party. On 6 Septsuber 1967 SCHEER

spots defore

the foren's International League for Peace and

Freedos and the donen for Peaco in San Francisco.

ile stated

thai ho did not fayor

a third party, but would like a third

candidate wão rould run as an indepenient in the Presidortial

clection. I it a symposius on Vietnan on 7 Ccsober 1967

at the University of itai, Sale luke City, tro nonbers of

the panal here lobert SaltER and Carl OGLiSBY, forcer

President of Students for a Donocratic Sociaty. (Carl

CoLiSBY was saned consulting baitor, Raaparts, in February 1908.)

10

---

## Page 12

13-00000

4. Information in tie Elles at this gency roreal cho

Un 14 say 190r at tho University of Califoraia,

ROberT SCHEER gave the introduction to a Connurist Film on

Yetazu, raich das later soized in New Yori by the Federal

autioritios. This gathering was sponsared by the Aù loc

conaittoo to End U.S. Intervention in Vletnun, 'Co-speakor

was Joseph P. HORRiY.

InfoTaation fron a sensitivo source states that

jOrDOrE APTHEKER: (CP official) assisted SCIER in trying to

obtain a visa to North Vietsan in 1966. SCHEER had also r0-

quasted Julian SCHUMAN, friend of Anna STRONG (morican

living 1a China) to assist hin.

The Poople's Morld of 7 May 1966 under byline of

Geno DENNIS (son of Eugeno DENNIS, fomer Genaral Secretary

of CP USA), Barkoley, reported excerpts fron a speech by

RODaIt SCHEER mado on the campus of the Universizy of Cali-

Fornia, "iC Pentagon Link Denownced as" "Norss Than MSU CIA

Leal"."

On 26 January 1967 Robert SCiEER was in Lonion en

route to Prague, SCilEER stated before his isparture fron

the U.S. that he would intervion Bertrand RUSSELL re the

sar Crinas Tribunal. In London he net with fergus MICHOLSON,

mational Studiont Organizer of tha CP in Greai Britain, and

dard HORONITZ, WhO waS

then connected with the Bertrand

Russoll Peace Foundation and since May 1907 has boen a ramber

11

---

## Page 13

13-00000

••¿ azaparts stade. Soilbk was in Holland on 27 January 1907

me nos wich londors of die Incorationel Studena Confercace.

ici collauú il travelleu co liris, deat dormany, anduprague.

de ras in Prague is an official quest of thi Czoci coveraneni.

von ais arrival in Progue no was taien in charge by vice

Presivont of tne Intornational Union of Studoats (iUS) '"

(surier controlleú international organization), ilodenierz

¡ONARSKI. SCHEER reporIedly sas proviced dich soue intornal:

."Ils docusents and iad

a side range of interviews with Ils

executives. He also sas provided vita docunentation in ..

Paris by U. 5. employoes of UNESCO and elsewhere by contacts

in the Intornational Student Conference, National Union.of

Students of lagland, Males, and North Ireland, the Dubols

Club; and LovenoTo HUTANANENGHE (Zambian, African Associata

Director of International Student Conference, 1950-1062)-

shils in Prague, SCHEER arote an articla vased on this.

aaterial unici sas later published in Rude Pravo dateilned

des York. (This aay rafez to an articlo by SCHEER datalined

prague, 4 february 1967, published la Sunday's Ramparts,

12-20 February 1907.) SCHUER vas inviteú by the Ils to

Ulan bator as in official guest to participate in the Ius

congress, but he did not accept. According to cus unconfirmod

reporI, SCitEER was in stockhola or intended to be there on ar

zoout o February 1907.

Cn 13 April 1907 SCUBER was Listeà as a speakor at a

Viatnan Jeaca-in at Northwestern Univorsity sponsored by che

12

---

## Page 14

13-00000

urtinescorn Students for a beaucralic Society. The dew

i2ra Mess of 22 dril 1007 carriod an articie in nica it

staled that tae opponents to the war in Vietnas hoped

in run dE. cartia bucher dInG, Jo. as a pouce candidate, and

di. Benjanis SPoCK as his running muts. The articio con-..

rinued that robert SCilik said that he had been in contact

vita Dr. TING to get his consant to rua, and billion F.

Pepper mentioned tho possibility of dr. KING's candidacy in

a speech on 15 April 1907 in dew York during "Spring bobill-

sation". The article further stated that Dr. KING was

scheduled to seat witi Dr. SPOCk and bis would-be prosoters

of ils candidacy in Cambridge, Massachusetts, on

the occasion

of tine

start of rationvice "Yletnan Suaner" organizing

CELOrES.

On 12 May 1967 Robort SCIEER was interviewed by the

¡ansas City, Hissouri, Tiaos en route to deliver a speecir at

the University of kansas sponsored by the kansas Peace Forus.

STEER stated taat ho viexed the bonbings of Hanoi and

aiphong in sorth Vietnan with particular alaru, and he .,

supported persons who refuse to be drafted.. On 1 June 1967

de spore at lerpur Collage on tho Clarisa ties under tao

sponsorsuip of larpur tritod Stuient Govamaent Political

Affairs Committee and the College. Chapter of Students for a

reaucratic Society.

KObert SCHEER was & guest on 11 October 1907 on the

Lis Crano Snow, Stazion KITV, Channol 11, Los Angeles,

13

---

## Page 15

13-00000

california. ¡e mas introduced a: builor of dauparts and

onesoin for the ion Loit. The discussion iis on cisctoral

procedures in the boo. he ras again on the dus Cindy Grow

un 23 January ilos, 12 midnight, Chainel 5, dashingion, i. C.

Ti:e

topic "Conocratic Party kiet."

Ine Fairsield Repuolicaa of Fairficlu, California,

on 21 loveber 1907 carrieú an articla "Luitist Calls t. S.

'Bought Out Society' in J. G. Jals." Robert SCIER is....

"quoraá" "ile invole tha devil tbeory of Cannuniss to expiain

zhe reality of desperata social revolution. ' I thiak ve nave

Co realiza that the Vietnanose ars indeed fighting for

fraedon--jur their freedon from us. Tuey aro nationalists

trying to creata a national revolution and that can't ba

explained-away with a label.", SCIFER said that the U. 5.:

vas in the war to make a profit. Concerning the domestic

scena, ho said poople vers rioting in Merica because "they

¡aye so legitinate avenuo of dissent." Ha urged. concarned

youts not to be complacent but to remain aware of tha

problems and refuse to conspire with liberal politicians vo

try to majo dissent irrelavent.

The leceabor 1907 issua of Ramparts Bagazine has as

is cover a piotograph of four hunds each holding a burning

selectivo Service card, ill belonging to Rasparts staff

jenbers. Che card is a duplicate issuelto Robert SCial?,

153 Brizton St., New Xurk of, öronx.

14

---

## Page 16

13-00000

SCuLER vas in ilavano is a roporter to covor tho

¿bitural Congross hold i-ll january 1908. ie arrived in

larico City iros Cuba on route to the l. 5. on 15 January

1uo3 in to company of Richard licolE and Saul LiciDAi, foraur

Staff Aritor of Kaaparts. He was again in Mexico City on

21 January 1903. On 22 January in Mexico City he aot

Thanas HAYDEN, who was en routa to the U..S.: froa Cuba:, !.

- Loaced wita propaganda.

SCHEER 30d HAYDEN loft'Mexico.•

together on 22 January for New York Xeanedy Airport. Infor:

aazion received 25 February 1969 roportei that Robert SCHER

accompanied by his vifs and art director of Ramparts. (Dugald

STERNER) vere planning to travel to cuba via Mexico

---

## Page 17

13-00000

BIOGRAPLIE UNTA

KOBERT SCLER

ora 4 Aprii 1936, SToi, des York

Fatner: Froleric: SOlDER; bora in Germany 23 Hay 1398;

U.S. citizen

¡ozder: laa (ICE SURAi) SCiLEER; born in russia 2ó April

• 1900; nou-V. S. Citizen

education: June 1960 - 3.A. La Political Science, City

Collaga of Nex Yor! ""'

- H.A., Syracuso University

1960-61: " University of California

On 14 Sepicaber 1957 married Saxona TUREN, DOr 16

Cctober 1939, New York. Separatod ca: 1 Decenber 1961 and

oa 7 January 1963 Robert SCHEER filod for divorce.

On I5 October 1965 marriad inna Butierfield NEILLS,

LOII 14 Marca 1942 in Eureka, California; address: 103

il Caaina Real, Berkeley. She is the daughter of John C.-5.

MallS, Ill and sudrey Davis yEiLlS.

Pussport data: Robert SultER issued passport D 10380% 0n

5 February 1903

on 23 January 1966 issued passport 6 41559

Anse Weills SCHEER issued passport D 107213

25 Fabruary 1005 and renared 23 Jaauary.

1800

---

## Page 18

13-00000

Laresses:

20s allis Court, syricuse, jew Yori

0ãg critton Su., Crony, deo Yer:

2010 neoler St., berkeley, California

2023 ilvia St., Borioley, Califomia {Oct 1966

info)

114t ligh Court, serieley, California (196) info)

6468 denvenue Ave.,- Oakland, Califoraia (1967 laso)

---

## Page 19

13-00000

FOREIGN TRAVIL

j.jov

February 1905

February 1960

2ö Jan - ? Fed ó7

za Jul - 5 dug 87:

4-11 Jan 03

15 Jas 58

21-22 Jan 68

2u Feu 68

RUBERT SLICER

Cuba (Daily Californian, 5 October 1000,

said SClEEN there for one nonth.)

Cuba San Francisco ExaMiner, 22 May 1903.

sported Rouert SChEER visitod Cuba 1n

defiance of U.S. State Dopt. 1ast

suyaar.)

Tokyo :

IndOna31a

Vietnam

:Carboala

Thailand

Carabadia

Vietzas

LOndOn

Holland

Paris

kest Germany

Prague

Cuba to attend LASO conference; uncon-

firmed

Cuba to attend Cultural Congress

Mexico City fron Cuba

mexico City

This date it was reported that SCHeER,

titu, and laaparts Art Director

(DUGOLd STERHER) planned to travel to

Cuga

iii

---

## Page 20

13-00000

r.

CONTACTS

ROSERT SCILER

hisich, danes Michael - travel together to EgyDE

ATiKER, Herbert (201-757167) - assisted in efforts to

permiE SCHRER 1O

enter lorth Viornia.

àn, lu binh - North Vietnamese aewspaper

Loution:

E ropresentativo in

BRONIAREX, Zygnunt - Sashington, D, C. correspodont for:

Trybuna Ludu

MAYDEN, Thomas (201-797791)-".

KOVARSKI, Ülcdoalarz - Czoch Vice President of International

Unioniof students

LANDAU, Saul-• (201-194132)' - TY station KQED; forser Ramparts

staff::

LUCES, Irving (201-937307) - financial support in political

LICORE, Richard - IV. station XQED

HORRAY, Joseph ?. ~ Co-speakar au meeting of Ad Hoc Committoo.

to End the dar in Vietnas

NICIOLSON, Fargus - Mational Student Organiser of CP of Great

Britain

Siù, Nguyen Van - North Vietnamose gauspaper representazivo

London

SCHUMAN, Julian - assistance requasted to perait SCHEER to:

visit Noit. Vietnan

ir

---

## Page 21

13-00000

139

Organications to chich tobart acrest Beloned

lit kentioned as Participant in Activities

Curmuuity for dew politics

viscussions inliniced - participated in meeting

Kansas Peace Forun - spealor

Fair Play. for Cuba Comittee

Lavor Youth League..

_Vational Conforence for lex Politics

The Nes School

Peaco and Freedom Party

Spring Mobilization Committee Against the War in Vietaan

Students for Denocratic Action

SIlients

fox a Democratic Society

Socialist Horkars. Party

Vietnas. Day Connittoo

"Vietnan Sunner"

A.E.3. Dudois Clui

¡onen for Peaco - speaker

Young socialist League

---

## Page 22

13-00000

People's corld

1KK COMFORT

¿kland DireCr

Action Connilice

THINY CONNELLY

President

Bettormada Foods

ÜT. J. RAYHOND COPE

CASSANDRA DAVIS

East Bay Organizing

Committee

RONNIE DAVIS, DiJECIOR

S. F.Miso

Troupe

DON DUNCAN

Mastor Serzuant, Ret-

U.. S. 'Special Forces

LAWRENCE FERLINGHETTI

Paot

BILL FINN

Building Contractor

JOIN GEORGE

ALLOTAEY

Ür. CARLTON GOODLETI

PublIsher, Sun Reportor

MARBARA GULLANCRY

Orgunizes, Vietnan

Day Conaittoe

ELAY MARAWITZ

Caseworker, delfare

Rights Organization

MORRIS HIRSCHI

Profassor of :athenatics..

Uniy. of CuliforBia

PAUL JACOBS

griter

EPIRAIN XAN

Mi.D.

Secretary

ANN MARTI Rights Organization

Helfare

MARILYN MILLIGA

Postdoctoral Fellow

Vaiv. of California

ALAN MYERSON, Diractor

The Connittee

ROSCOE PROCIOR

ILTU, warchousenen's

Linion, Local 16

GERALD ROSENFIELD

HARRY RUBIN

PrOfOSsOr of Mclecular

Biolog) Unir. of California

JERRY RUBIN, Organizor

Vietnam Day Cosmittee

Rev.

SAM SMITH, Chairaan

Walfare Rights Organization

RICHARD STROKMAN

PrOFESSOI Of ZOOLOgY

• Univ. of California

JESSICA HITFORD TREUHAFT

friter

STEVE HEISSAN, OrganizOr

Fico Speech Hovenent

TOM WINNETT, UNner

Fybase Lecture Notes

ATTACIMENT I

---

## Page 23

13-00000

Endorsers of SCILER fOr Congruss (Cont'd.):

PrOfOSSOr Of Mistory

Unir. of caliioria

ROBERT EVAYS

Teacher

#CHARD JETER

TeachoI

"∞..

-".

-**

ATTACHMENT I

---

## Page 24

13-00000

LOvert SCiBER

¿surce dey:

úated l4 March 1900,

1 August 1907 in Ieply to our

Nase Check

received

1334,

24 July 1967

2/ DA 1800, 8 FebruaTy 1902

DAS 53220, IU February 1966

по. :

# DBB 85495, Y July 1907

5/ DBB 81858, 12 Hay 1907

0/ DBB 89742, 9 August 1967

7/ . DOC 02629

3/: DSB 86809, 17 July 1907

ĐBC 6801, 31 Jaguary 1908

---

## Page 25

13-00000

Lä- 895 (rewritten).

5

March 1108

SCleER, Robert

This summary is based on Fil reports and Agency reports

all of which are filed in 301-500730.

Propated by:

Margaret Nobiligott

CI/OP/DO

# March 1968

---

## Page 26

13-00000

EX-995 (rewritten)

7 March 68

2-1

"3.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 14 Maa, 78

---

## Page 27

13-00000

---

## Page 28

13-00000

---

## Page 29

13-00000

---

## Page 30

13-00000

---

## Page 31

13-00000

---

## Page 32

13-00000

•..:

---

## Page 33

13-00000

---

## Page 34

13-00000

---

## Page 35

13-00000

10

---

## Page 36

13-00000

---

## Page 37

13-00000

12

---

## Page 38

13-00000

• The new

tora Tines of 22 April 1067 Carried an article in mich it

was stazed that the opponents to the war in Vietnam hoped

io run De, Martin bucher KiNG, JI. as a peace candidate, and

D2. Benjanis SPOCK as his zunning nate.. The articie con-

zinued that Robert SClEER said that ha had been in contass

with DI. KING to get his consant to run, sad Willian F..

PEpPER mentioned the possibility of Di. KING's Caadidasy in

a speech on 15 April 1967 in New York during "Spring Nobili-

zation":

The article further stated that Dy. RING was

scheduled to neot with Dr. SPOl and bis rould be pronoters

of his candidacy in Canbridge, Hassachusetts, on the occasion

€2a..6

pf the start of nationside "Vletnan Sunner" organizing

extorts:

25/

---

## Page 39

13-00000

---

## Page 40

13-00000

15

---

## Page 41

13-00000

BICORIPHIG LATA

---

## Page 42

13-00000

Addresses

---

## Page 43

13-00000

FOREIGN TRAVEL

5unaT 190÷

February 1905

• February 1960

:26 Jas: - ? Feb 67

Id Jul - 5 A2g 67

:4-11. 3a2 68

15. Jan 68.

21-22 J38. 68

23

Feb

68

iii

---

## Page 44

CONTACTS

13-00000

---

## Page 45

13-00000

Organizations to whichl

or bentiones is Particigant in Activities

---

## Page 46

13-00000

ATTACHMENT IT

---

## Page 47

13-00000

ATTACIDENT I

---

## Page 48

13-00000

Source &ey:

Y Unauberca FBI report, dated 14 Maran 1960,

receivad

1 August 1567 in reply to cur dare Checi

#334

24 July 1957

'8 February 1902

3/

= 5/

10 FebrUary 1966

7 July 1957

12 May 1967

9 August IS67:

17 July 1957.

•33. Jasuary 1968

---

## Page 49

13-00000

D^- 895 (rewritten)

5 March 1908

This suanaly is based on

FSI reports and Agency repoxts

211 DE Which arE Elled in L

Propared by C

March 1068

---

