# 104-10186-10250

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10250

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION rEPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

The material matains latermach alertine lie MalloN DAfrase ol lhe l'altel States to tos the BarRalDi

18. UBC SARA TAJ NAO TAL (DA ITARATALAAOR OY IATPLATION Ol MADA IN ANY MIRRORE TO NE KRRNEDUTLERS

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEN

COUNTRY CUba

SUBJECT Agustin YASELLS Gonzalez

•REPORT NO. CSCI-316/01207-64

17 September 1964

DATE DiSTR

"NO. PACES

REFERENCES

3/p0

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Hashington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. September 1964

FIELD REPORT. NO.

THIS IS UNFVALUATED INFORMATION. SOVACE GRATINGS ARE OLFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A former Cuban. IS Officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personallty

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first chocking with this Agency.

Source identified Agustin YASELLS Gonzalez as a diplomatic

co rarch 196551,2,5,ayoled on a Flight froa Habana to Mexico

Headquarters Comments

1.

An untested source advised a representative of this Agency

that Agustin YASSELS Gonzalez had arrived in Kingston,

Jamaica, on 28 May 1962.

YASSELS spear the night at the

home of

Al fonso HERRERA Perdomo, the Cuban Consul in Kingston,

and traveled to Toronto, Canada, on 29 May 1962. YASSELS

held Cuban Diplomatic passport D/62/200, issuca in Habana,

Cuba, on 6 April 1962. His birth date was listed as

• 16 Мау 1939.

2. In a report dated 20 July 1962, an untested source identifier

Agustin YASSELES Gonzelez as &

Cuban courier who accompanie

Angel TATO Ramirez, a Cuban inspector, to Kingston, Jamaica,

in April 1962.

3.

This Agency's representative in Kingston, Jamaica, réported

on 1l September 1962,

that Agustin YASSELLS Gonzalez, a Cuban

courier, received a United States visa on 10 September 1962,

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

"TARMY

I NAVY

REP CINCLANT CINCSO #

Note: field distribution indicored by "= "')

TAIn

INSA

*EXX

I oce

I ERL 2

IM'S

5

INFORMATION REPORT

WH/SA/EOB, I HEJ5/R

NORMATION REPORT

IL: IS CANADAD

2 CI/R&A

HILLSA/CI

HILLANKE

FOCALS

MIDLAN

fti-167811156

NO PROJECT (A MUG, 1)

• CSCI-316/01207-54

дорожати

WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CIA,

RID 1

Tractora #

Кв. snk

118.12450019

---

## Page 2

5.

6.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN.

CSC1-316/01207-64

- 2-

which is valid for three nonths. He will travel to New York on

11 September 1962 viä

and will presumably enter the United

States repeatedly as a courier for the Cuban United Nations delega-

ition.

In a¿report dated 14: August 1963;

a former Cuban Intelligence staff

officer reported the following information on (nu) YAssEl

(matronynic unknown):

Source

west met YAssel in April 1959 when böth attended

a Milltary Attache course in Cludad Mar, Santlago de

Cuba;

YASSEL, at that time, was a Second Licutenant in the Cuban

Rebel Army..

During the perlod source was In Montevideo

(between 1d March and mid-Way 1963), he not YASSEL again

when YASSEL visited tho Cuban Embassy on two occasions as a

diplomatic courter. YASSEL's courter

run took hin fron

Habana. to MexiCo-ChiIC-Uruguay-Brazil and back to Habana.

source, sometime, In 1962, saw YASSEL In MINREX In Habana.

Source also said that he is certain that YASSEL is a Cuban

Intelligence, Service functionary and a Communist. He

described YASSEL as having been born about 1935, being five

feet seven Inches tall, 160 pounds,

with black hair, dark

eyes, a dark complexion, and having a medium build.

The following travel by Agustin YASELLS Gonzalez was taken from

official travel manifests:

26 June 1963

- Left Mexico City for Habana

9 July 1963

- Arrived La Pas from Santlago

11 July 1963

- Left La Paz for Arlea (by train)

15 July 1963

• Loft Montevideo for Rio de Janeiro

24 August 1963

- Arrived Rome from Madrid

24 August 1963

- Left Rome for Tel Aviv

19 September 1963 - Arrived Rome from Prague

20 September 1963 - Arrived Madrid

22 September 1963 - Left Madrid for Lisbon

28 September

1963 - Arrived Israel

14 November 1963

- Arrived Montevideo from Rio de Janetro

15 November 1963

- Left Montovideo for Santlago

19 November 1963

- Arrived La Paz from Arica

5 February 1964

- Arrived Kingston from Mexico

1 March 1964

- Arrived Athens from Rome

3 March 1964.

- Arrived labana

A report dated 27 July 1964 stated that Augustine YASSEL,

formerly

in Indonesia, was in Tokyo enroute to Habana via Mexico City.

ECRE'

O FOREIGN DISSE!

---

