# 104-10320-10035

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10320-10035

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

_NAVAL KUVESTIGATIVE SERVICE

FAIRMONT BUILDING

4420 NORTH FAIRFAX DRIVE

ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA

22203

oK to declarita invisation

re Pres Kennedy'

DNA-03614

prosield on delephone

45 Naval attache Candersa

SECRET

SECRET

IN REPLY REFER TO

NIS-44/jeg

3050

Ser 001285

27 JUN 1968

From:

To:

Subj:

Director, Naval Investigative Service

Director, Central Intelligence Agency (DDP-CI) (Mr. LUDLUM)

Declassification of information concerning President KENNEDY

assassination (U)

Ref: (a) CIA Memorandum of 22 May 1964 for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN;

Subj: Anonymous Telephone Calls to U.S. Embassy in

Canberra, Australia, relative to planned assassination

of President KENNEDY (S)

1. (U) In response to your verbal inquiry, it has been ascertained

that appropriate Naval Intelligence components have no objection to

declassification of the information concerning the assassination of

President KENNEDY which was provided on the telephone to the U. S.

Naval Attache CANBERRA, and discussed in reference (a).

T. L. STEVENS

Aoting

Copy to:

NAVINICOM-321

DI'S

sur

TRAIN PENNE

X HOSPIT

POORE TOR FLAYNG

ECze ND. (2. 3)

RYUST REST. CEDR

CROLE REM (11)

NO (0)

FOR FILING

ADP

FE/AUSTRALID,

EXCLUDED FROM AUSONATIC RECRIDiNG;

DOD DIR. 5200.10 DOES

NOT APPLY

RECORD CCPY

SECRET C

SECRET

35-1

201-289248

---

## Page 2

13-00000

PD/! 8:135°

XAA2 - 36317

2 APR 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

PS- 1500/2

SUBJECT

: Australian Press Request Regarding:

Anonymous Telephone Calls to United States

Embassy in Canberra, Australia, Relative to

Planned Assassination of President Kennedy

(Warren Commission Document 971)

Background

Mr. Peter Michelmore, an Australian newspaper representative,

has requested that we declassify CD971. This consists of a memoran-

dum from you to Mr. Rankin dated 22 May 1964 and an altachment dated

29 November 1963. Both relate to "crank" calls received by the U.S.

Naval Attache in Janberra on 15 October 1962 and 23 November 1963.

CIA first was told about these calls on 24 November 1963 by the Depart-

ment of the Navy - after the assassination of President Kennedy. A

copy of CD971 is attached for your information.

Recommendation

1. CD971 should not be released at this time. Mi. Goodwin says

he can handle the reply by phone.

2. We will initiate preparatory steps toward releasing CD971. This

entails clearance with U.S. naval intelligence and the Aust-alian security

service (the latter as a matter of courtesy).

3. Upon completion of step 2, we wil gubmit an appropriate rec-

ommendation.

XAAZ-1736

palacca

Raymond G. Rocca

C/CI/R&A

1F/H8

Attachments

RYBAT EAST. ECHI

CASE BEN (1:)

NO (0)

Ten fais

freman nony

6A00 1

SECRET

901:.8610÷6129

201-289248

35-2

201289248

---

## Page 3

13-00000

• EDITORIAL: LONGACRE I.'OSS

ADVERTISING: BRYANT: 8921

CONTY (AUSTALL OFFICE, BROADWAY

LONDON OFFICE: 8S JLAET STREET, E.C.A

WASHINGTON OFFICE: 1137 NATIONAL PRESS BLDE

The Sydney Morning Herald Limited

229 WEST 438d STREET, NEW YORK, N. Y. 10036

issouve regists

68-15051

THE SYDNEX MORNING HERALD

THE SXONEX SUN • THE SUN-HERALD

THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL REVIEW

WOMAIT'S DAY • PEOPLE • PIX

RADIO TELEVISION AND HOBBIES

March 26, 1968

Mr. Richard M. Helms,

Director

Dear

Mr. Helms:

This letter is to request the declassification of Warren Com-

mission Document 971, which apparently consists of a memo

written by you and is now sealed in the National archives.

According to an article by lavid lise in the saturday byening

Post of April 6, 1968, the description of CD 971 15:

"Anonymous telephone calls to U.S. Embassy in Canberra,

Australia relative to planned assassination of President

Kennedy."

This material would seem to be of interest to our Australian

newspapers and, bearing in mind that this material will be

made public at

some time, I would like the opportunity to 1n-

spect it.

PM/mh

Yours sincerely,

Get dish

Peter Michelmore

Editor and Manager

35-73

---

## Page 4

13-00000

• too.

- SENSA

JP.CES f

METHODS INVOLVED

Co:: 4126.28.

22. ...

• :..

DUPUICATE 0711

XAA2-11367

SUEJLOT:

=.

Anonymous Telophans Callo to United States

Ensbassy la Carbsts, suctrella. delative to

Flatted accessinition o! Presidint lensody

1. I seler agala to paregraga tão of your remorandus.

dited 1? i chruary 190re relativa to duseminations to the sacrit

2o C729 Noterbor 1953, GLA recoivodirom tos Departerent

of the Nary a copy ol a cable from to lisval Attacho in Earsaria,

nostralia (11 67327, Toppera, later doragraded to Secret).

rejerting a telopions converantion lie previone day will 3a

chauficur for the soviet Embassy la that city. Thie individaal.

ahila dacusclog scraral tastaura of intelligance intorert, touched

on thu posiltility tist ti dovict Ecrar sans had financed this

assistination of Excaident ñenirij, Refirenco was mace 1s this

15: Cetsbus 1962.

3. Upon receipt of tito cablo from Navy CIs too% the

follorlag setten:

2. Cabled to Caaborra dising lull detailo of tiso

talephons convarantion ol 23 Morerber zai tho call nurio

oa 15 Ectober 105k. It should be actod that Cli had but

prosioualy loans of the 19ai telephona call.

00. ali:)

irot

WARNING ¡CASE

SENSITIVE SOILT AND

201-289348

---

## Page 5

13-00000

WARNI

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS iNVOLVED

b. The CL: Station in Canborne, 01 27 Morensbar, furnished

all arallable 1n10151a1 01 the 196% telephone coil. K+5years

t'hit sourco on that accasion suits that "Ires Cartals scurtries"

planned 80 5371 bandred thensane 406358 105 198 49135919605

complite detail ca tso ancayracus lalapacne call of 23 Movembar 1951.

rumplied by ser canberre statian, to tha silito Ecase, boriartasant

of Stite, and todoral jerony 01 Iraitigatica, mith a copy to tas

Eutrol service. d copy of lilo dissessination 19 3ts exact test

SE NICONE TO LIE 2SETICI:D4273.

chile wils the suntralian security estrice. In tha splaida di tha

Mustralisa authoric. the callas vana crani. la say vest, shay

maro not sole to irontily siy Pollsh ereployee of the seviet tabassy,

too estcable described by tis callar as tha ona hs drore. or tha

licesos plato samuet Elves by lia. No Lurfaes information au this

call sas bein saesirado arailabla evicinie souls tise to chus tast

sue caller iss sane typs di crast. This cessinsion lunarcs, crumot

I. Pleass dots that tho asture di the iniorrastlon in this

Tease& I1ela1

brachinset

89649 1

•'.

WARMIIE NOTICE

SENSITIVE SCURCES ANO

35-5

---

## Page 6

13-00000

WAR_

-SENSITIVE SOURCES AN

METHODS INVOLVED

CUT Teletypo No. 45691, dated 29 Horarabax 1951, Sled at 1117 kours.

to tiso li bite ilouse, department of laila dal Sederal liaraza of

Investigation, sits a copy to tao sceret sersles

1. Your atteatlen in called to a perios of anonymous taliphone.

callo rado to tho dilica of tau U.S. Nival intucie in Canberra,

nutrilla, by = san chiraig to five sad knorledgo iout a soviat

plut to ancassinate the icty frcaldont dennody. Cus firet record

oi tile raitor lo a Naval Altacho callo trona Cusberra dent on

34 Noverates 1763.

¿o Is epponri tint the callor, wao professes to bu tha Beliah

chissúleno of a fordet tobassy car in Canberts, list paracd in

evor a year ago, on 15 Ccinour 1952 repost 1967. dt that tirao be

tole 3 stary 850ut due sorlot subearima carrying 100 to 500 Sorlet

solilure on their try to cana. Cho purose d this treep moroses.

bo sata, us to espport th corareas of alisalesiggio De isdud test

the ro mus a plot to pay ors bistrod thousand dollois to lili Fraziert

Memady, Debirú 133 plot, ho suid. sura tha "Iros Gurtain coutrior,"

ani "Cuniruzist non la Laglinà, Fosy Kang and probably corso cutes.

coustrles."

jo 0s 235i0reates 1953 rapast 1963, tho Eny afar tie

¿claphans collo a mio balloraito du duo cassa porson pioned tao

¡cibusay again and spoko to the ascintste Naval Attiche. Fas callos

relocrad to hia cull i your band and statud ha had sild that tit 0559

do Giring what ha claimed were farther detalls about tho

Eundsslaution, tio callur aais thas about tuo mosion bofors lanteb

wond karg been in raily Morumber 1943) ba was proscut chen in

Mustrallan ran 15 t0 d0 years chi, and tall, 505 dapatshed by

the Sovicts to las Urltod Sertuz saraging a cabo caout :5 to 30

cordineters long, 5o centionatess bigh, ard 8.5 cestimatira seico..

las wit plu anà plute in iyumay and shit des caller drova tro tus

Sortet sacares boos 10 Castiara, dole ciortrava tidlo la the cas

ni going conitory. & shortrair radio cas going in the 5aba08y

Exclad on insali.

$69:1069:91

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AD

M'ETHOOS INVC!

S-60

---

## Page 7

13-00000

iO!

SENSIVE SUURCES

1D

METHODS IVOLVED

Thio when thay a giod there. Goer trades the o1 dece Sovietn

GRinCE In SIC 2550087, 551

thirt muradag lapparently 2i Nurerabar 105: 1, 8899514g0 table tarough

5. Tho caller turs guis friarrantion" shout tag forict rols

1a GaWingot. 107102 10 00 a 1

minish. se coula rot decly birarelia sud whia do described the

car se ¿tivaa fas a sury kino 19ãa baler, Mechas pluto disre Couta dales

Cõe Chi, buddud they côen chage puiza, hare lity Lets in seserve,

a. The callor addra conso rages inicematica aboct I. sucran

erraloyas of tha american ambaouy do tiiaga vorto for the sortets.

The contaration cunslured mid too cailer groralsing to tillo & lottar

7. Tho callor sausa good caglin and his accent and voice diá

must change tarcaghost tas conve loà, to li was minaradd tost ha

sne nut deguisias dis voice.

Do racisaliun anthositica sortig ca tis arse consideT s

caller to la a crusto They resto last cordal offlece 1a australla

10 nos est anything ict doriet casadoser; they hara ao sacora dó

saris urina a folish chaufleur. they are codicuing dusar invocaigatios:.

WININGD

42.002 1

Eglades was clersi:

140198.8,00.

55-7

---

## Page 8

13-00000

T5#.0841

, TOP SEGARD

NON-CIA TELETYPED MESSAGE /0F33

NNNNVV.

CWa015

PP F.SC

DE ESN

T. CIA ZFHE

P 240415Z ZDG

TUY SEPRET

FM ALUSHA CANBERRA.

TO RUECWIDNIS

BT.

T"OP SEG-RETI

Іспуро праз макив 5/0 Т 0805, -ів П.;

ET ATtes 7 0800,2150 01

24 0N63 IN 67327

PASS ALSO-TO CIA -

POSSIBLE SOVIET INFORMER

1: ASST ALUSNA RECÉIVED TELEPHONE CALL 23 NOV FROM PERSON

CLAIMING TÖ BE POLISH DRIVER OF RUSSIAN VENICLE. MOST OF

CONVERSATION RECORDED BY ALUSNA: INFO TOUCHED ON SEVERAL

AREAS-INCLUDING: POSSIBLE CONNECTION SOVIET GOVI SUPPLYING

MONEY TO INDIVIDUAL IN U'S: TO ASSASSINATE PRESIDENT;

POSSIBLE SOVIET IMPLICATION IN U:S.S: THRESHER INCIDENT;

SYSTEM OF USSR EMBASSY PERSONNEL MEETING MIGRANTS TO

PAGE '"'RUECCI" OOZA,

si ; i

AUSTRALIA, PROVIDING FA SE PASSPORTS AND SENDING. THEM TO

OTHER' COUNTRIES; RUSSIAN MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO CUBA AND

INDONESIA, RUSSIAN CONTACT WITH COOPERATIVE IN INDO EMBASSY,

CANBERRA; EMPLOYEE IN AMEMB. CANBERRA..

COMAN) WHO IS GIVING

iTAD

281:289248

35-8

---

## Page 9

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOP SECRET

, 22B2Z_ PNE 20F3

INFO TO SOVIET EMB; SENDING OF AGENTS FROM AUST TO U.SA

PERSON® GAVE CONSIDERABLE DETAIL ON MODUS OPERANDI OF TWO

SOVIET AGENTS IN SYDNEY:

2.. PERSON HAS AGREED TO MEETING WITH ASST ALLSNA IN SYDNEY •

IN NEAR FUTURE: HAS ASKED FOR. ASSURANCE• HE WILL BE PROTECTED

•IT KE COOPERATES. TOLD THAT THIS COULD BE DISCUSSED AT FIRST

MEETING:

• 3. AMBASSADOP., CAS AND ASIO INFORMED. ASIO CONDUCTING

SURVEILLANCE FOR WELL DESCRIBED CAR AND DRIVER WHO CLAIMS

TO GE IN CANBERRA NOW;: XEEPING SOVIET ENSiSSY UNDER SURVEILLANCE;

PMG MAS WATCH AT PHONE EXCHANGE TO TRACE ADDITIONAL CALLS..

IF CALL TRACED ASIO HAS ARRANGED TO MAXE IMMEDIATE SURVEILLANCE

OF ORIGINATOR AND/OR PLACE FROM WHICH CALL MADE. ASTO PLAN TO

¡ COVER MEETING OF ASST ALUSNA IN SYDNEY IF IT-EVENTUATES:

• 4. CAS COORDINATING WITH ASIO.

'5: ON 15 OCTOBER 1962 A SIMILAR CALL WAS RECEIVEDI AT EMB

•PAGE J-RUECCR TOP SECRET

POSSIBLY FROM SAME PERSON: IN THAT CALL REFERENCE MADE TO

PLOT WITH REWARD 100,000 DOLLARS TO XILL PRESIDENT KENNEDY:

•CALLER ALSO STATED USSR SUBS ON WAY TO CUBA WITH TROOPS.

WHOSE SECOND OBJECTIVE TO GUARANTEE SUPPORT TO GOVERNOR

0F MISSISSIPPI: SUBSTANCE OF CALL PASSED TO ASIO AT THAT.

TIME BUT NO FURTKER INFO DEVELOPED:

6. WHILE SOME ASPECTS INDICATE INDIVIDUAL A CRANK OTHERS

SEEN MORE AUTHENTIC: ALL PARTIES; INCLUDING AMBASSADOR,

FEEL MATTER SHOULD BE INVESTIGATED UNTIL ADDITIONAL FACTS

"TOP SECRIT

35-9

---

## Page 10

13-00000

•CLASSIFICO MESSAGE

TOP SECRET

i Get a 30E3

ARE DEVELOPED OR EXISTING LEADS HAVE BEEN EXHAUSTED. •

T• ALUSNA MAKING VERBATUM TRANSCRIPT OF RECORDING WITH

CONMENTS TO BE SENT NEXT POUCH:

GP-3.

•BT

TOP SECRET

35-10

---

