# 104-10172-10294

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10172-10294

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 N TO CIA...

Background Use Only

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Do Not Reproduce

freid:

RIDI

10

ROOM

NO

IA?E

Not s

29/112

3C/V5

8. SEA 1959

D

8.

•. Faithl

lUi

10.

11.

WE//- CE

19.

1в.

15.

(VE-I/F

86.

Sept

5-8: a critical

assesment of what

C

RIT

petting

•Vardor

41S

8-9;

iO wich you wanld look

nito this situation seclosely

in conjunction with a staff

wen o quit the your wee azto the

future of this Reatindip.

9 alwald lihe to be able to

discars it perorially withs

03 Eultan elen dam ni Fusland.

also Dould be brought to Fract OS

Fribug ittentinohes he gets.

1615: due inquistia

-

22

18

10.

*RIOIF8

AMLOSURE

DATE MICARPAMIO

1400L

ABSTRACT

101113769

jPULa NUMES

COLUMeNT CATE

Lifflu. 5%

SECRET

OOLNEST A.

.22

4/8R

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

10

Chlei,

Chief, sh

270-7/6020

i a sisterior i no

201-152156

FROM.

SURACT

-flu

Chief elitation, leistrial 14-1

REDCAF/RIFICITE - Procurine of Fraale

22 14,45t 1959

MARA!D FOR INDEXING

ACTION AQUIETO

MADE NING CAN dE JOCIO

BY QUAINIO MO DISA ONLY

CAPERTA

FYI

OF:A 4067, 14 Muguot 1959

22

1.

By reference dispatch we ventioned an intriguing turn of everts

"In the Costilla/Golub relationst1= concerning the latter's request for

Costillo to fix lin up with a garlo

However, he would first like to bring

you campletaly up to date on our contact with Goluo.

le have recontly been

having & number of consular setters which we have dealt with through Golub.

A numbor of Americans have been calling at tho U.S. Embassy who have not

previously applied for Soviet visas and express e desire to travel to the

Costillo has been referring these Americans directly to Golub at the

Soviet Fabaoss, as Golub once told Costille that he had the authority to

grant visas without prior approval Iron Moscow. As long as the Americans

had made travel arrangesents through a locel travel bureau, as well as hotel

reservations, he stated he had so objections in giving them a visa in a

mattor of minutes. He have had four occasions to try Golub out in this

matter, and so fer he has fulfilled his promise. Golub. on 3 August invitod

Costille for drinks in & local bar, and Costille asked hin again 1f he was

st1ll. willing to continue handling the Americans that he referred to Sol'ab

at the Soviet Consulate.

Golub stated that he was because he was interested

in having Anericans visit the Soviet Union.

"And besiles," he added, "gince

you are allowing Khrushcher to visit the U. So, there is no raason why I

can't let ordinary Americans cone to the USSR." Golub then began astang

about the official functions of an American Consulate and began comparing his

duites with ours.. Wen he listed his typical duties, he added that it was

his responsibility as a Soviet Consul to hendle Soviet defectors who cano to

Finland.

Golub sentiored that he had just returned from one of his more un-

pleasant alties of recovering the body of a Soviet sailor, who had gone berserk

and had shot and killed a number of soviet citizens on an island off the ccast

of Estonia, stole a small rotor launch and headed for Finlend.

His body was

found in the sea by a Finrish fishermen near the Finnish island of Musta',evonen

with a Finnish life

jacket on.

(This was reported in most of the Finnish

newspapers.

Evider. tly,

the Soviet had attempted to swin for it und dronior.

Golub stated that he had to go to this island, recover the body and bring 1t

back to Helsinid where it vas put into ¿ mortuary.

The cause of death was

definitely drowning.

The body orly had a Finnish life jacket and a pair of

swimming trunks on.

They later found the motor boat, but the notor was gone

and there was rothing in the boat.

Later a Soviet destrojer came to Helsina

to rotriere the borty. It was evidently Golub's responsibility to nake all

of these arrangements. Colub stated on this evening that he would like to

make a call on the U. S. Consulato sometine.

Costille said that he was welcome

at any titio.

The next morning Golub phoned Costille to say he would like to

saxor come over.

He arrived carrying à murber of Soviet visa and otber. forms.

Ho recained in the Consulate for about an hour and asked -ant quastions. as

to consular duties and U.S. citizenship.

Ho departed inviting Costille to

pay a sizilar call on his at the Soviet Corsulato..

The next day Costille

phoned Golub to ast. 1f he =ight come over

ee see the Soriet Consulato.

Wo

also wanted to introduce to colub an babaggy employee, Edward berg, who 15

ir helsinks through the sumer fros the U.S. subassy

In Peris or TDY for the

purpose of halping the Embassy with the nurber of VIP and uther Aprican

tourists ming to the U.S. fair in Moscor.

Since he has alse been handling

saLe visa probios, ne manted hin to neet solub. Golub welcoacd Costille

and jers at the Soviet Consulate end look trem into his offico viero the three

chatter fer about 20 minutes.

costille also had with him tho rises of tho

Amarisen nomen nto nanted to

spend one more day in the Soviet Union and to

take the train rathor than fly.

colub nade the incessary clanges on their

vlass mihout a question.

At this tine colub Invited Costille and Fars to

havo lunch met Ma on 10 irrust.

CLADSORATENS

SOS CONTANTO

1

3/BR

- 108 1A111

---

## Page 3

14-00000

DISPATEN

simificant dotalis of cule lunch mere reporiod ln referener 11g-

jater.o

Maut

some very Inal lines aid dis tire

sir bla so sit a date.

¿carille asted his it to wag serdous, since lo WE=

Polut duet laured and responded that it mada ro illifarerco

co tha. Costillo ex,r0330d arazecent this with in no findsh girlo sinco

5.7

Do tad desser fonto lever alone one call latero

Herever, inlit cincied that ho knew rose.

indi costille sides

ments were rade

that ho how s ind Fianish sirl Nho mried lor-local doctor liat was

trusthorty and could hendle the situation. ter rue is being forwarded under

sugarate sorer as Identity, On Iridar everira, Costlllo contactod Iden to

briefly exaleia that she saculd expoct.

Idea is about 31 years old, extrerely

atiractive, vell dressed, speaks hoth fiaris". and infillah, and coriod vory

coosersiite.

He told her that liolut was the Sovies. Consul, a personal friend

of Costilio's, unhaprily married with his wife nto was in loscox, and that

reuested a date.

She montioned that it scinded interesting and that

she wouid ho ready for anything. he told her notine about any operational

interest in volub but mentioned he would liie to koop postod on the relation-

Honerer, we strossed that as far as colub was concerned Ider and

Costillo had known each other before and had dated. She understood this

Our only reservations rbout Iden was that she is far from an

•intellectuel" ant has a rather silly sioglo.

There would be only ore reason

why Golud mould be interested in Iden, and this would not be for her sind.

3. The evening was spent

dinner dancine at a local night spot.

attendine vere Sublect of fOMA 2918, berg and anothor Anerican teaching scroo

In Helsiridi, Colub seened to enjoy himself trenendously, was always at ease,

but preferred Costille's date to his orn. le paid very little attention to

Iden, altrough he was pleasant to her; he orly talkod at length with her when

ho ielt it necessary to be polite. Colud danced with all the girls end

appeared to be a passable dancer. A night ciub piolographer was asted to take

a photo cs Golud with his deto while iencirg. The sicture turned out with a

profilo shot (huwever recognizable) of Golub, büt unforturutaly his dato's

face was casaletely hidden.

Golub was not snare i this photo..

(The original

re ara keezing in cur files but have attechod a thensorax copy. The only

onversation worth reporting was that Gorittle asked Subject of OFHA 2918, 22

who is a teacher of brzlish in Helsinki, Is she would be willing to teach sore

Soviet dirlomats English. Sho agreed, but nothing sore has been teand on thie

score. Gelub then requested that ne continuo the evening in his apartront

listening to Russian music and drinking rognac.

The Ercup remaired

about the soura, asain Golub paid mere all artion to subjact or lonnore co22

ignored his own date. When Costille senioned it was tire to leave, the girle

excused trensalves to 50 to the ladies rose.

When they had left the room,

Golub case up to Costille and asked if he could go home with Iden. Costille

responded that this was not up to him and told Golub to ask the girl. Costille

asked hin sif he just didn't ask her to star in his apartment for the night.

Golub arstered that he preferred to go to her anirtient. He then went to ask

Ident if he could go hose with her.

Howeter, Golub tade the group good bye

at the cer door and went back upstairs to his âparteert.

Later Costille asked

Iden what had happened when Golub made tie proposition.

Iden, who was a little

nifted at ris ignoring her, stated that she was a little tired but told him

ho couid phone her the folloving week. Since that avening he has phoned her

twice but kas not had the opportunity to see her.

solub also praised to

invite Costille ard Subject of Oti 2919 to his abertient later on to lear

sore more Bussian Lusico

de.

lo will keep you posted er Solut's relationship with Iden.

the evenine

Gelub idd

not once appear to te rervous or embarrased alout being

seen out in fublic with soreone besides tis site.

Hillim L.

Enclosures - lier. las.6.

Photo

Distribution

3 - REsencis

2 - SR.

14811501100

CRASSACATAT

109 320.

MIBR

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

d.o.b.

use nototal routio

10 s 330

22

06

Selkalnon, Pinland

CLASSICATION

моя но

3IBR

couranco

---

## Page 5

14.00001

y"

eise.

---

