|-10173-10415]

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

3
,
SECREE/SFORY a
an ; 7 fas 4062
to a Director
Yodaral Baurves of Investigation 4 :
Attentiont Mr. Be J. Papion git wx Sees eS ee
FRO + Depaty Mreotor, Plane Sash 5 we i
asiogy Jotm Ra hE TERT 2
Asay or aS ee

1. Reference ia wate to your naxorandun of LL auguat 1960, your
file no. 100370750, entitled Jota Howard IAHSOR, Internal soourity ~ ¢.

2. Accomling to.doasentary inforration dated 11 January and
13 February 1961, acquired frua a wally reliable source with access
to the information, the Cubga Inatitute of Hotton on Picture Arte and. 7
Industry bas_expreased @n Untarsat in baving Joha Howard LawsGa,-a~<scb4-
resident of California, go to Cuba ad a teacher and writer in the Guban
To Senne IAHS0Ii's correspondence with the Institute

“ it
Quban Eabosay in Kexioo, fo for forvarding to tha institute,
fox_correspondence has aleo been arrenged for Carlton M033, shoss addresd

iglP.0. Yox.1827, Hollywood, California,. The institute has requested
@ copy of moss?” iy “The, House on Cedar W112", or any related docunsatarios.

3. The above information should not be diszesinated cuteide your

Bureau without prior ocasultation with thic dgeucy.

ecnoemning Carlton
your nesorndin of Apel 1953, vaaningian F
Ho. 100~15433, entitled Richard XRIDI

5. Tais office has 00 ediitional pertinent infomation cancerning
Subjects.

C80T=3/76h, 707
Departaant of State

oteise rile

oct

© :

HAE

SECRET/NOFORI



SECRET/KOFORH

w2e

WH/u/R/AlSnithias
Distribution:
Orig. & 1 ~ Addressee
ATH
1:

ZRI (201-5603)
cI/LA
= CI/REA

Pee

an
iS ies ef
Tyr

m7

2 © SECRETNOFORN

\ PROJECT: LIBIGHT

. 6 April 1961.
" RASICe | AMA~16450
; ! HRA=16626

ee

jplpbel

FI SOB

esavav dieses tasisvoneuastsisngenratassnentasasingSpitaustaneenisssasseenisttstieeeesttssseeeestssseeeeeeststaeete?

fe ee

