104-10183-10408) {2022 REEEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

z SIME eal ' RETURN CIA
Ind * se
() jot Reproduca™”

ibaa ran Spt ekR

\ Tea sasnets PO 2 Oet 6

: De/ti/¢/Fl i

i Teas
Here's a draft ef ay sexe on our necting wv Corn

a list of lest CAXFintO.is trying te #EEE peddle attached.
15°,
asking what they knew

I think a cable sheuld ge tedsy/?2 t

en old ladies and their visas (para, 11). Caa reference earlier catle.
fie should have a reading en this fer A/L early next waeke

192
2 ge te(ADAVf you're interested in pursuing

Alse a cable s)

2
(25509 (vera. 3)6
oF

Klpv


Meeting with AWHIP/L en 20 Deteber 1965)
cx} iG
E, Nebstor os “Yarry

1. Mire Al Gonzalez (28 "fr, Santiane") and 2,

Wills") met with A'HF/1 in “ew Yer City 20 devever 1965, Gerstddaet

with hin first slend at the Taft Hetel fren 13101339. Tae three then
- had lunch at the Red Coach Gril fren 1330-1500 and went afterwards te

Genzalez room in the Acericana Hotel for a discussien which last“unti1

1700. There were ne Security indidents during the neetinzs.

2. ASTHIP/1 returned te ‘iew York lh Octeber frea his business trip in

“amd and the Keys "te fish", He

Eurepe and went the fellewing day te
cane back te New Yerk on 19 Ceteter, Yext ef hic tine fa Surepe was spent

in Itaty , esvecially ‘lilan an‘ vicinity, fa ros none briefly in He
and Geneva. He spent twe nights in Paris at the end of his trip. He did
net go te Spain he Said, because ne manted te get back te pe eS.

sfe 3. Wose IGU:SUS Leve2>— A/1 said that his friend ou sDS 4s peing te

be in Madrid 23 Ccteber until 2 November when he plans te return te Havana,

He has been tm Burepe fer several nenths. 4/1 describes hia as a men when

he trusts conpletely and says that he has gaed access te banking elreles
casTRO's

in Havana. Accerding te 4/1 1 (012809 knens the en whe hand:
: finances, Pepin SANCHEZ, crethexinmJan Bf Celia Sancie2, In Madrid
arid,

0

LESIAS'S address will be Angel Sowaez, Andres Terra jen 4,))
el. 252-4279

oi

should main concset with(igiisi 1 Ind cansiver recrulting hin,

‘A/L believes, ae he has stated previeusly, thet we

anrreached

ens that Lucy Cot:

Le Fenin MiPAMO-—A/1 said 4
Sec En PAMO.

+ Me catd that OW tabassader CAfiLW) alae knew this

had mace.

it te AL, CANTLLO said tnat
aly and Spain,
SLO AML hat a Janz isaca in Parts with CAnELic ant his rites

Dut interestingly did net reatt
1s te rel}

ypu


te ge shozping, A/2 indicated that JAKRIILO

and ANTIUS Lesned A/V his ca!
was unchanged fren the last tice they net early in 19€5-—-he is still a fire
ns with A/1, 4/2 asked if

saoperter ef CéSTHO but renains en friendly

CARRILLO learned where Che 2A was when he (C) was in Cute recently and

C teld hin he did net knen-—that it was a very tightly held secret knewm

eves CEVARA is still in Cuta.) © still hepes

arid.
‘a’fered A/1 a variety ef Jewlery and cotas

enty te a few veenle. (4,1
te becene Cuban tmbassader fn

6 swelry, Coins, itc.—Cits
and ether iteas frem Cuts, (SES

TTACHED LISTS.) € was asking fren $20,000
4/1 said

te $25,000 fer the whele werks and weuld set sell it pieceseal.
C as coaputing at MMKIG five or six peses to the dellart.) A/L said

only the ceins were really wert such, that the Jewelry was junk, and that he

effered C 212,000 fer the whole rerks, € declined the offer.

(CARRILLO?) recently seld #190;800 -#ebrBiog

7, Steqpa—A/1 said the Cutars
steics fer 2100,000 te a French cetlecter. Thic eccurred in August er

Dtisn stanos freu “arouk's veried

Sevteaber and included three or four

2. each, “ere stamps are coming te Paris fren

which were werth abeut’
Cura fer sale in Eurece,

3. Jerelry-—A/1 ssid that tr» ceilectien of silver, Teys, Daintings, etc.

were de hed 7
mhich Hund icp in “Nerthera Italy earlier in the year was ult.

nately
sold te a Turk, SOMWS8 The shimient mas ened secretly and bricea-trac

aie

was #HB Used to renlace th

uring A/1's avseace fron Mew Yerk, "arta cD
iz

Sy Marte J

4/1 freak

Cutaa i, delecationvave A/L's fsther te’erce £

dont n

+ riety

rvaried teus by A/1's father,; 4/1 ts

se
JL ns received Crea his in
a

celivered a nete fren ANLASH last

Reny neaths. (Letter previessl-

‘gelne te arrears to see asly, as! ebtatn nere

7ioaaid tut rar to her

vorrta:


Up

‘gays the Yadrid Esbaray merely brushes then eff, #/1's net

“1, Next Trip --A/] plans te make his next business trip te

oo 2

1d, ALASH/1—In Europe A/L heard Crea VEWTHA(and Yax INTZATOR, indirectly?)

i , bens :
that AUASH/2 was affluent, well dresred , ete, , and that-pagpae nere talting

learned fren CURRILW, hewever, that NAKANJO teld C that

ofthis. He a
orier te his departure fren Yavana (in Septesher) he had dslivered a brusque
Si/1 that CASTRO wanted te see hin imediately. Neither C ner

nessage te Al!
NAPANCO knew the purvese of tie asetings

Le Old Lsdies——A/l is agiteted and deeply concerned ever the failure

of his tre elderly fen-le relatives in wadrid te get even visitors! visas
«te Live with hin and his faaily---er even visit. fe
_ giving hin

te core te the J

yton
1a bad tine fer his failure te help the eld ladies. The young/ceusin helping

cone te the U.S, with his wife,

then must lesve Soain by 2U Octeber and ci

A/\ wants badly teoelve this creblen prier te 26 Ceteler if pessible, We said

wo'd try te get a reading on this fron ‘fadrid, te shen re'd already explained

the preblea.
repe in early

1966, He said he retains very busy aad taat dus!ness centinuss te be geod,
13. A/L lsoxed well. ie apneured te have gained weight and is quite round,
As usual, he creke ¥ith apparent sincerity and tried te recall as many details

ef ths conversation wes in Snanisn, which he clearly prew

as vessible,

fers te use, The sere he telks ef his Cutan frienis and their activities, the

he dedschen ,
werse the TWagaimy see to ‘ecenes

Vue A/L man teld trot “itlsi nas being snitched te other duties sae that

age, le ras tale te

seul? t+ Abe costact; if he caanet mach ©

lg evnects a further FR ia Cran sh

ttoela er Fills,

ta tae aear Aurture.

