# 104-10186-10174

## Page 1

104-10186-10174

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HANGERS RIS

INFORWALIONI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

•Of 'UsO Mala: rai 100:00 08 177 l'a104 pi010

NO FORN DISSEN

COUNTRY

SUBIICT

Cale Demidas Bejubli

RiC FranSCe TAVERAS Rusario

REPORT: NO:

CS CI 316/0111665

DATE DISTR. 10 Morch 1965

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

VATE OF

INTO.

PLACE. &

• DATE ACO.

-

SOURCE,.

1904:

Wushurgler, N.C.

196%

FIELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVAIUATED IN'ORMATION ' SUURCE GRATIMES, ARE DIPINI

APPRAISAL OF. CONTENT: IS

Airier. Caban IS olficer who served wil the Cuban l tell

"'"!l Afirs: 1964.

Heaterar IS Comment:

r6": wie roport is one of a sors councine persuastri

trided by the source i d in tides supplement!

• dormal aáron the secords of this Ageroy,

HE DUẦN TO CIA

Backtround Uso Only

Du vot Reproduce

8. 8088

111:.! motioned do the porscaty repo dis dudlei dies?

2.

As i menaber of the APCS, 'TAVERAS was rrigy sei!

is Caba do secure a scholarship in the Union ad Soveet Suradlest i

- I torshun did ret materialize, TAVERAS we peter de duor.

unfire draing program lusted.! Soupe tiris ad TAVERAS

ass sill jr Cuba at the time he lefi.

5/рV

5

Beady PEters Comment

Rolael Frer ISco ('Fall", TAVERAS Rustel, uto dily bogre

so rel 1938, was elected secretery de pubeived pripigseen

ile ADCJ Central Exccutive Commitre 1: Dereruer 1962.

ho'd in title when he left the Damineer Hepublic e 13 September

196: fer Mexion on a Spansi, ship, en saste do the Sevir!

ло.". ".

SECRET

NO FOR, DESSER, 10

FATe

i. N10 l11 derboron.

murated by "

MNFORMATION REPORT NORMATION REPORTI

15

A DAT

HE DANT CL LA

DIR - 10.22

CSC: 21: 11174.R.

RID, dii.

---

## Page 2

ESCT 315. 68174-05

-SECKET

NO FOR DISEM

Ines to stade una scholarship, traveling with daime DURAl tirry.

Mugo ToYo. Vings. and Noree villams BUTELLO Perras

(Ser. ISCS-3/558,65% tsarly sovembr 19i3,

Cekadored to APC Oreported that TAVERAS, DURAN. TOYOS.

and BOTELLO were then in Moscow studding ccon

(see (S-2 565, 960): however, In carly Dayanker 1963 anther

surce repurred that TAVERAS, DURAN, TOYOS, and BOTELLO

were then is Cuha and did not plan to su to the Soviet Unton is they

were unable to mean the scholarships either before they lift for.

Cubs or sirce they liad been in Cuha, (Scs GS- 568, 846) 8:8

Cute as a member of his tratring troup which had seven mths

i multery training, and that he expected TERas do me tainti

die Domican Republic soon, using d false.passpredeceder.d

countrs: (see TDCS-314: 04551-64) On 12 Decenter 1964, DURAN

said that TAVERAS returned to the Dominican Republic from Cube

qui or abiur 12 December 1964, probably usins a false passpore.

(See CS-311: (0014-65).

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

---

