# 104-10110-10642

## Page 1

104-10110-10642

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 11/01/99

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10110-10642

JFK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

:

TO :

TITLE : SECRECY AGREEMENT OF DAVID LAMAR CHRIST.

DATE: 11/27/50

PAGES

:1

SUBJECTS : SECRECY AGREEME

CHRIST, DAVID L

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

1A

CURRENT STATUS :

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/07/98

OPENING CRITERIA

:

COMMENTS : JEK40:F25A 1998.03.07.11:22:07:983031:

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DocId: 32358896

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRECY AGREEMENT

1. I, David Lamar

Christ

-, understand that by virtue of my duties in

the Central Intelligence Agency, I may be the recipient of information and intel-

ligence which concerns the

present and future security of the United States and

which belongs to

the United States. This information and intelligence, together

with,

the methods of collecting and

handling it, are classified according to

security standards

set by the Central Intelligence Agency.

I have read

and under-

stand the provisions of the Act of Congress of June 15, 1917 (Espionage Act),

as amended,

concerning

the disclosure of information

relating to the National

Defense and I am familiar

with the penalties provided for violation thereof.

I agree

that I do not now, nor shall I ever possess

any right,

interest,

title or claim in or to any of the information or intelligence

or the

collecting or handling of it which has come or shall come to my attention by

virtue of my connection

the Central Intelligence Agency, but shall always

recognize the property right

of the United States of America in and to such

I do solemnly swear that I will never divulge, publish nor reveal

either by word,

conduct, or by any

means such classified

l information,

intelligence or knowledge, except in the performance of my official duties

and in accordance with the laws of the United States,

unless specifically

authorized in writing in each case by the Director of Central Intelligence.

4. I understand that no change in my assignment or employment will

relieve me of my obligation under this oath and that the provisions of this

oath will remain binding upon me even after the termination of my services

with the United States.

5. I understand that my employment by the Central Intelligence Agency is

conditioned upon my understanding of and strict compliance with "Security

Regulations CIA", and the appendices thereto.

I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or

purpose of evasion.

In witness whereof I have set my hand and seal this 2 7day of Nov.

_ 19.50

Havid 2. Christ 13001)

strosand by mo thie 2/ day of Hou

1959

at

Hashington, D.C.

FORM MO.

OCT 1950

38-33

RESTRICTED

/

DocId: 32358896 Page 2

---

