od-t0088-10273) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

411 March 1965
LX-2467

~ MEMORANDUM -FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: . General: AMMUG/1 Debriefing Report #278
2 Specific:( Luisa RODRIGUEZ Calderon/Photograph:

: Surveillance of Cuban Consulate Mexico :

City, DEES ans

1,:On 9 February 1965, AMMUG/1 identified a
photograph of Luisa RODRIGUEZ Calderon, who he stated
had been connected with the DGI (Directorio General de

:, Inteligencia) and the former Secretary of the Young Com-
munists in the Cuban Ministry of Exterior Commerce.
According to AMMUG/1,. the Cuban Government thought
RODRIGUEZ had been recruited by the United States
Government while in Mexico so she was recalled to Cuba,
AMMUG/1 was not sure of the details but recalled something
concerning her having received a letter from an American,
Further, AMMUG/1 recalled something about an American
student who visited Cuba who.was supposed to have made.a

_ recruitment pitch to RODRIGUEZ or been associated in some
manner with a ‘pitch made to her. AMMUG/1 did not know
the source of these alleged pitches, -

2, This photograph i8 part of the surveillance of the
Cuban Consulate in Mexico City and was taken from Film
No. 293, Photograph 16, dated 12 December 1963,

3. WH/C/RR/OS Comment: The photograph of Luisa .
CALDERON Carralero (201-734274) attached to HMMA-21612
~ was compared to the aforementioned photograph with the
result ‘that both photos seem to be identi bi EY

: Ai Ridkolo teat
* WB/C/RR/O8 ©’



11 March 1965
LX-2467°

. SUBJECT: . General: AMMUG/1 Debriéting Report #278.

: “. Specific: Luisa RODRIGUEZ Calderon/Photograph.

; » Surveillance of Cuban Consulate Mexico |“:
City nee ee fea

- 1,°:On 9 February 1965, AMMUG/1 identified a
photograph of. Luisa-RODRIGUEZ Calderon, who he stated

‘had been connected with the DGI (Directorio General de

. Inteligencia) and the former Secretary of the Young Com-

~ munists in the Cuban Ministry of Exterior Commerce,
According to AMMUG/1, the Cuban Government thought
RODRIGUEZ had been recruited by the United States
Government while in Mexico so she-was recalled to Cuba.
AMMUG/1 was not sure of the details but recalled something
concerning her having received a letter from an American.
Further," AMMUG/1 recalled something about an American
student who visited Cuba who.was supposed to have made a.
recruitment pitch to RODRIGUEZ or been associated in some’
manner. witha pitch made to her, : AMMUG/1 did not know ©
the source of these alleged pitches.” ;

2.° This photograph is part of the surveillance of the
Cuban Consulate in Mexico City and was taken from Film
No. 293, Photograph 16, dated 12. December 1963,

“3. WH/C/RR/OS ‘Comment: The photograph of Luisa

“-CALDERON Carralero (201-734274) attached to HMMA-21612

_, was compared to the aforementioned photograph with the’ -
result that both photos seem to be identi ace

