2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
re

104-10107-10017|
ey 7

lp

( @ cc

AETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only OGC 77-0428
* Do Not Reproduce 19 January 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/SE/SS

FROM: Edmund Cohen
Assistant General Counsel
B
SUBJECT: Reimbursement of Travel Expenses of (Thomas L. Briggs
Witness on Behalf of U.S. Government

REFERENCES: A. Memo for Record, Same Subj. o3
B. Memo for C/SE Div. fm (SIBriggs) Subj:
Appearance as Witness on Behalf of U.S.
Government

03
1. In accordance with instructions contained in reference A, (Dhomas
L. Briggs traveled to Miami for a pre-trial conference in the case of U.S. v.
Hemming, et al., No. 76-371-CR-CA (S.D.Fla.) Reference B seeks reimburse-
ment for this trip. -

2. The undersigned spoke with Mr. Jim Williams, Budget Section,
Drug anaes Administration (128-4266), about obtaining reimbursement
for Mr? iggsDtravel expenses. Mr. Wiiliams was informed that insofar
a8 Grigg testimony related to his official duties as a DEA employee, DEA
should absorb the costs. Mr. Williams agreed and indicated that Mr.
Briggs) should call him to arrange reimbursement.

3 — Qo
Ze
‘Edmund Cohen
OGC:EC: bm (21 January 1977)

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
1 - TRAVEL \~
1 - EC Signer
1 - Chrono


Olpv

( @ « ©

OGC 77-0427
19 January 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM: Edmund Cohen
Assistant General Counsel

23
SUBJECT: (Gromas L. Brigg) -- Involvement as Witness in
erald Patrick Hemming Case

3
1. In the late afternoon on 7 January 1977, Mr.(Thomas L. Briges)
informed the undersigned that he was being asked to attend a pre-trial
conference on 10 January in Miami, Florida, and expected to be a witness
for the Government in the case against Gerald Patrick Hemming. Mr.

°3 (Brigg> stated that he had been under cover while employed by the Agency

from 1969 to 1974. He had then transferred to DEA where he became involved
with Mr. Hemming. Mr. Griggs Was now back with the Agency and expected
to be put under cover very shortly. Both for cover considerations and
because he felt the Hemming case had a great deal of "flap" potential,
rivaling the Werbell case, he desired OGC to intercede for him to keep him
from having to testify.

°

2. Mr. Griged noted that Hemming was a "walk-in", who was referred
to his boss at DEA, Mr. Conein, by Mr. Werbell and that Conein, in turn,
had sent Hemming to him to be interviewed. Subsequently, Mr. Hemming
had "set up" Mr. Conein by first telling him that a brother wished to work
with DEA and requesting permission to give Mr. Conein a resume, and later
by publicly meeting Conein and handing him a manila envelope ostensibly
containing the promised resume. In fact, the envelope contained a report
with phony cryptonyms representing Hemming as an agent of Conein's.
Hemming's report detailed a variety of alleged official Hptivities an
mentioned his prior contacts with Conein and with(Brigg3. Grigg9 indicated
that Hemming would undoubtedly try to beat the narcotics charges pending
against him in Miami by claiming to be a DEA or CIA agent? riggs)
testimony that he was a DEA employee when he met him but was a CIA
employee both before and after would help cloud the issue. In addition,
such exposure could affect Briggs") current usefulness to the Agency.

3


Ved

( @ « ¢

3. The undersigned checked with Mr. Robert Blandford, CCS, and
learned that(Briggs) Cover had been removed when he left the Agency, thus
his previous Service was a_matter of public record. In addition, he was not
now under cover. Mr. (se stead) C/CCS, opined that no cover problem
existed which would impede Griggs) testimony.

°
3

4, The undersigned then spoke with Ms. Karen Atkinson, Assistant
U.S. Attorney in Miami (305) 350-5461, to inform her of Mi°? Griggs) current
status. _Ms. Atkinson appreciated the potential problems, but concluded that
Mr. Grigs)would be a necessary witness for the trial which was scheduled
to begin on ll January. The question of travel expenses was also broached.
Ms. Atkinson stated that she did not have an expense fund to pay the travel
expenses of Government witnesses and that the usual practice was for the
employer Agency to pay the expenses of an employee testifying on behalf of
the Government about his official actions. The instant case was somewhat
unusual because CIA would be paying for MP? Briggs to, in effect, testify
about his DEA experiences, but she opined that this was a matter best
resolved in Washington.

93 5. In view of the limited time available, the undersigned informed Mr.
Griggsbranch chief of the above and suggested that travel
orders be cut for Mr. Briggs) trip to Miami.
i : 03

6. On ll January, following his return from Miami, Mr. Brigg:
informed the undersigned that Hemming's motion that his trial be severed
from that of his various co-conspirators had been granted and, therefore,
his testimony had not been required. Ms. Atkinson had informed him that
should Hemming raise as a defense the allegation that he was a DEA agent,

03 Griggsywould be called as a rebuttal witness. Ms. Atkinson also noted

that Hemming was alleging that DEA was representing him at the behest
of CIA because in the past he had "crossed" CIA.

cc: Mr. Robert Morris, EAB
Mr. Robert Blandford, CCS
OGC:EC:bm (21 January 1977)
Distribution:
Original - TRAVEL ~~
1 - EC Signer
1 - Chrono


REQUESTER

(

_ REQUEST FOR LBRAL ASSISTANCE

DATE OF REQUEST

pale

OFF ice

ope SR

TELEPHONE

{soe

ROOM NG. AND BUILDING

STATEMENT OF REQUEST

“Requaticd Guidonce on cat sppavance on Niaue

pleted Bb Ads betes ahh wk per

REQUESTER’S DEADLINE DATE

REQUEST INFORMATION IS | | SECRET fx {sorenerra, UNCLASSIFIED

ASSIGN TO:

GENERAL LAW

\ gree aN ets FOIA/Pmivacy act [rrsconene elena

COMMENTS/REMARKS

LAWYER ASSIGNED
Y —

yp) eraeET

REQUEST TAKEN BY

