1992
104-10197-10304, | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF

11 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR:...Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT t HENMING, Gerald Patrick
SFH429 229
1. (On 9 June:-1969 w Cay

‘contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HENMING.
Iwas referred tothe writer, who is holding the HENNING

file. When contacted the writer, uw ‘advised t

is the action officer for a cable from ain “

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala. ‘| was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick’ NEMMING’and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file’.

on HENMING, ewas Tequested to alert cay and JMWAVE

to the below-mentioned cable and to provide the writer with a /|

‘copy of the report coming in from | =

2, _.W I provided the writer with a copy of the cable
‘CIN 944357; Dee : ‘dated 8 June 1976),
which is attached. In. substance, the cable reflects that
circa 8 June 1976.a Guatemalan source, with the knowledge of .
“Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided’ bata
a written report, and a detailed briefing, concerning a plot
cto assassinate President LAUGERUD. According to. the informa-
stion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September
“1975; however,* One of the major conspirators, Jorge Antonio
"Cokie" ZIMERI Safie left Guatemala in August 1975 as a result
of an attack upon his, ZIMERI's, life. ZINERT has been living
<n Miami since August 1975,

3. According to the report, the National Liberation
wMovement was involved with ZIMERI in the assassination plot |
wand ZIMERI in turn was involved with two Americans, brothers, ]
‘Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING, The HENNING brothess
jassisted ZINERI in acquiring arms, among other things, which
swere flown to Guatemala in a smali aircraft. The report also
“claims that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials
“in Miami and New Orleans.

W7- CIA ewloyecs
1@ = CFA Component E2 IMPDET
Ee At CL BY 063993



NOT!
informatio
fron @! @ said that he
had been providing information on ZIMERI to the
Guatemalan government for the past six months or
so. He claimed that two Americans were involved
with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service
in Miani. |” @ did not mention names but
described one of the-Americans as about six feet
four inches’ and weighing about 230 pounds.

4. The Guatenalan report of the assassination plot ends
with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United
States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c. Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the
_United States for possible use in
Guatemala?

d. Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-.
tial treatment by U.S. authorities which
petmit him to carry firearms, as well as
to purchase arms and ammunition for
shipment to Guatemala?

e. Any information on Robert and Gerald
HEMMING?

S. On 19 June 1976 Ww wo advised
sthat DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State
“Mepartment.

6. Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent
variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HENMING

7. From the name, physical description, activity, and:
alleged employment, it is apparent that Gerald Patrick HEMMING
is identical with the subject of Office of Security file
‘429 229, who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,
who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who. as
«G£-May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation
‘company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in
Miami, Florida.

(D- CD ewployens

@) = Crd compened™



8. Gerald Patrick IIEMMING is well known to this
the Office of Security Miami Ficld Office, and JNNAVE
Mews Secuslons sinc. at least the daily 1360's
Claimed Agency affiliation when in fact there has be
none. The most recent incident wherein HENMING claimed su
affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his servi
to the Drug Enforcement Administration, Gerald Patrick Hf
is’a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SFI353 459),
aka: Frank FIORINI, of Watergate notoriety who also has a
long-time record of falscly claiming Agency affiliation. In
the late 1950's HENNING and STURGIS, both former U.S, Narines,
joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter
claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause. Soon thereafter,
STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and
Central American activities which he named the International
Anti-Communist. Brigade. A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"
(the backers.of whom have never been fully established) was
naned the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald
Patrick HEMMING.

9. For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of
a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plet
sinvolving HEMMING, you are referred to attachments to instant
memorandum, to wit: a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June
1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;
and an extract from a. book published in early 1976 written by
Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN. The book Coup d'etat
in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John’ F. Kei ey
“Is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency
with the assassination of President KENNEDY. One of the major
links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,
Jr, to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to. Loran Eugene
“HALL. Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti
‘nental Penetration Force, Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide
publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim'
GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration
Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY
sand that members of this unit were connected with CIA, . GARRISON
shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is
anteresting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING and
another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISON's investigation.

ergy G. Brown
uty Chief
Security Analysis ‘Group

Atts

