[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

/104-40186-10089)

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

terial coutaing Laformation affecting the Kational Defense of (he Catted Gates wriasn the meaiting of the Eaploaige
MAU BC Gece, 173 and TH the Uranemlenica of ferelation of whieh In any manner Oe ai uneuthorieed pers ie prob

» | SECRET
.NO FOREIGN DISSEN He

egci-316/00730-65

counter Cuba REPORT NOL
susect “Gary” (an alias) cate ose, «=«-16 February 1965
> NO. PAGES, 1
REFERENCES teehee 7 ;
Ssuly 1964 RETURN TO CIA

DATE OF :
Into, 1964 rBackground Use

uct a Washington, D. C. Do Not Only
Date aca, December 1964. FIELD REPORT NO. produce

THIS 15 UNEVALUATED IN/ORMATION. SOUECE OLADINOS ARE OEMINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT (8 TENTATIVE.

source. A former Cuban 1S officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service utnil April 19644

Headquarters Comments

The following taport is one of a series containing persunality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
dinformation from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. “Gary” is an assistant to Alfred ALMEPDA Garcia, head of
the Venezuela desk in the Seccion Sur (South American Section)
of the Departamento de Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation
Department - LN) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia
(Genezal Directorate of Intelligence - DGI). .

2. “Gary, a Cuban citizen, ia a Caucasian, was born between
1940 and 1943, is five feet six or seven inchés tall, weighs about
140 pounds, has a thin build, and has brown hair, ‘His monthly
salary is about $240.00,2

Neadquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal ro additional identifiable
information on "Gary,"

SECRET geste
NO FOREIGN BISSEM oo

state Tow Tawar [naw Tae Txsa, RX Toce TFer 2 |

eR eme

~ REP CINCLANT CINCSO # _I&NS
ate: Field dhibetion ndvcared by “#7

wie
roraus

WH/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CI 4, RID

et ‘OBSOLETE PARVIOS EDITIONS. 19-5-1 a
