# 104-10067-10043

## Page 1

1104-10067-10043

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

oa/37

;

SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

7,t.

CONF: "C/PCS)

INFO: FILE, VR, DIDEI, DDU-S, ESRFA AGCADDO, CIAF-9,

C/CA-3,F C/CA/SOG-3*C/ICS,

C/EI-4,

C/EMS, CHEMSAMS, E/OMS/PEB, C/UCD-3,

C/EPS/COMP, E/EPS/EG-2, C/EURE6, EAFRO4, CAIID, COINS,

CONTEST E/EASE CALSN/MIL, CINE-O, E/DE/DMS, CAPESLERC, EXPES/DEE,

C/POSAINT..:

FC/PCS/ITC-4,

CAPESPASN, C/POS/NAR-Z, CAPESATO, CAPN, CASE-S,

C/SIAN C/SIA/ELR

C/SIA/FLA C/SIA/IA, CASIA/ICA D/OLE, DOEDO, DEPD-D,

OGC- 2,

A DO

780

0763280

PAGE 001

TOT: 2701102 MAY 78

DIRECTOR 230113

SEC

E

STAFF

TO:

270057ZADIRECTOR* 230113

PRIORITY WWSB

14442

300K CABLE

File ASCA

WNINTEL

RYBAT

THE HOUSE SELECT

COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA),

CHAIRED gY"

FREPRESENTATIVE LOJIS STOKES, HAS BEEN INTERVIEWING

A NUMBER OFTRETIREES AND EX-EMPLOYEES AND HAS BEEN GOING

THROUGH MATERIAL FURNISHED TO THEM BY THE AGENCY.

THROUGH

THIS PROCESSTCOMMITTEE

STAFF MEMBERS HAVE OBTAINED A MUMBEP

OF NAMES: OF NONOFFICIAL COVER OFFICERS AND AGENT CRYPTONYMS.

IT IS NOW THE INTENTION OF THE COMMITTEE TO SEND STAFF

MEMBERS TORAGNUMBER OF COUNTRIES

TO INTERVIEW INDIVIDUALS IN

THE FIELD. WEDARE:

"DE COURSE,

MOST CONCERNED ABOUT THE

PROTECTION:OF OUR,SOURCES AND THE DENTITIES OF DUS NONOFFICIAL

OFFICERS, HAT THENSAME TIME, ME ARE ANXIOUS TO ASSIST THE

ON ASCASE ENSCA DARE SHALL THEREFORE EXAMINE EACH REQUEST

BY CASESBASIS.

2. 7

NE

HAVE BEEN WORKING WITH CHAIRMAN STOKES TO SEVELOP

MUTUALL ACCEPTER GUIDELINES FOR HANDLING MSCA REQUESTS.

THESE

CONTACTS WITH FORNER AGENCY EMPLOYEES LIVING ABRDAD:

SIF'WE KNOW WHERE SUEN ENPLOYEES ARE, HE WILL INFORM

THE COMMITTEE.

* WE CANNOT, HOWEVER, UNDERTAKE TO FIND THEM IF WE

UO NOT*KNOW WHERE THEY ARE.

INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE NOT AND HAVE NOT BEEN AGENTS,

BUT"WHO MIGHT HAVE INFORMATION PERTINENT TO THE

-THENAMES OF SUCH INDIVIDUALS WILL-BE FURNISHES US

" BY THECHSCAFAND ME,NILL CHECK TO ENSURE THAT SUCH AN INDIVIDUAL

MERLE CHECKUSH ENRUSE

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

• ':

78: 07632894

PAGE

002

TOT:

270110Z MAY 75

DIRECTOR 230113

WOULD

"NOT

305411

POSITION TO REVEAL PREVIOUS DR CURRENT AGENCY

ASSETSTOR

MORERATIONS.

-NONOFFICIAL

• COVER OFFICERS:

RESTAFF MEMBERS MAY. INTERVIEH NOCS BUT NOT REPEAT NOT .

IN

COUNTRYS

NOCS WILL BE FLOWN TO OTHER AREAS FOR INTERVIENS.

ADDITIONAL ANDES WILL USE ALIASES AS APPROPRIATE.

AGENTS, PAST OR PRESENT:

THSCARSTAFF MEMBERS. MAY NOT REPEAT NOT CONTACT OR

INTERNIEM AGENTSA

13.1

IFFYOU'ARE APPROACHED IN THE FIELD WITH A REQUEST FROM AN

HSCA

STAFF: MEMBER TO BE PUT IN TOUCH WITH NOGS OR AGENTS AND

YOU HAVE:NOT HAD PRIOR: HEADJUARTERS VOTIFICATION OF SUCH A REQUEST

YOU SHOULD IMMEDIAIELY CONSULT HEADQUARTERS PRIOR TO MAKING AN!

COMMITMENT. E2DIMPDE,T.DI

ORIG:

:C/PCS"(PAGE)X10521 COORD: SA/D0/0 (GREGG)X1398; OGC (

X9212; OLC(BRECKINNIDGE) X1133;

AUTH: JOHN N. MCMAHON, DOD,

14141

REL: FRANK CI CARLUCCI, DOCI, X1155.5

END OF MESSAGES

SECRET

2A2202426

3102

---

