# 104-10112-10291

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10112-10291

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

S-E-C-R-E-T

(When Filled In)

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

• Do Noi Reproduce

2 Y JUN 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR: Ch1e5, CI/OA

FROM

: Deputy Director of Security (Investigations

and Support)

SUBJECT

:

C25507

8712569

1. Reference in made to & menorandun dated 17 April 1958 fros

WH DiViBIOn through CI/ld requesting that the lovart security approval

granted on j duly 1951 be amended to permlt Subject's utilization as

ST/01 maquette

& career agent in Mexico clty under Project LIlls.

16-3

This vil

confira the verbal Covert Security Approval granted

Larry Sale,

WE DIvIsIOn On 3 June 2958 for the use described

DDS/185

ADDS/18S

Chief/SSD

Dep Chief

A to Chief

Ch. C&R

Ch. SRD

Ch. Inv. Bs.

Ch. Sup. Br.

Desk 18-3

Desk SB-

Ad & Trng

I control find

In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine

Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction -

Field No. 10-5, a covert security approval is granted for the use of

the Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,

above.

3.

Subjects of covert security approvals are not to represent

themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security

approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions

Of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore, 11 you should desire at a later

date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for

approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this

office.

5. This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's

services are not utilized within six months of the date of this

memorandum.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

CLOSED

BOLLING : ell

26 June 1959

S-E-C-R-E-T

, Filers

---

