‘Toa 10062-10734) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

15 May 1972

MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION

SUBJECT : Meeting with Hal Hendri.

H May 1972

1, Hal Wendrix called my home on 10 May, saying that he wasn 4
in Washington and wished to see me, Arrangement 6 wore later rnade to
mect him in downtown Washington at a street corner at 8:00 am on

May. J picked him up as scheduled, and after driving around awhile

we had breakfast at the Marriot Metel in Rosslyn, after which I drove

him to the airport so he could catch the 10:36 a.m. plane to New York,

2. Wendrix had a nusaber of poi
were of such importeuce for him to
just to sca me, Therefore, his ex

in

6 to convey, but nons of them

ave-made a trip to

tion scams plausible Y

fashington basically to see Jerry Nannifin ef the Time/Life bureau
to discuss a lecd on who might hzve leahed ITT documents to Jack Anderson
Hendrix ephdined that he was recently told by a "Caribbean ruffian"!
named Fnu Goodfriend that the person who furnished the LT‘ documents
to Jack Anderson was Irving Davidson, an old fziand of Anderson who £0:
years. ago had once set 2zside a cesk in his office for Anderson to use on
occasion, Goadfriend said that the picture of Dita Beard with a number
of her Washington contacts publighed carly in the YLT scandal days had
included Davidson somewhere in the group. Davidson is described as a
lobbyist for one or more Latin American Governments as well as for
Israel. Mannifin is considered a very knowledgeable and trusted friend
by Ucndrix who wanted Hannifin's opi whether Davidson might in
fact be a scurce of Anderson's, Hannifin's initial impression was

. that this was a remote possibility, but he said he would check around and
try and talk to Davideon himself to sce wh
the question of LIT.
Fain

ni}

her he could get a rise on

2 said he carne away from the mecting with
i pretty well convinced that the load to Davidson as the sonvee on
ITT documents was probably net a ood one.

wddzZs

H


in that there may be two penctrz

y :

ara

3. Hendyix commented to me tht the general feeling in N.Y,
euo in the Washington office, two in

the N.Y. office, and one in their Cleveland office, He did not elaborate,

4, Hendrix made the following cornments about the JTT/Chite

documents:

A. He was
deseribed
who enjoys Harold Geneen's confidence, ha
ang then come to W
about the ITT/Chile documents. ‘One proposal

aware that Raymond Brittenham, whom he

8 a senior Vice President and a bit of a fuddy~duddy
a goen Fehn MecCone

Tashington recently to ta!

documents be turned over to the Agency for heaping. He did
not scem to know whether this had actually becn discussed hy
Brittenham with the Agency, Hendrix ‘sid that Drittenham had
diccusced wit) e Agency what IPT might szy i
bearings, what the Ayency might
he known that Dritte:
eaying that this was pre Tth floor matter.
have believed me, but T ught it better not lo conf
to hing that « contact had in fact taken place since he apporently
did not talk to Brittenham himself about this. }

B.. Fnu Schafer, the lawyer of the firm in Washington
retained by ITT as counsel for the expected Senate hear
Chilean activities of YT, has told ITT officizls that he thinks
the timing and intensity of the Sonate sub-committee interest in
the Chilean activities of ITT will depend on the general political
situation in the U.S., particularly in Viet Nam. Schafer has beeh
in touch with Pat Holt, the sub-committee aide, :

C. None of the 17 T documents ou Chitc have been turned
over yet to the Senate sub-committee. The docurnente are still
being worked on by ITT. Whon pressed as to the quantity involved,
Hondvin said the total is about 500. documents.



~3- 7

D. The three documents Hcndrix mentioned to me af our
last mecting as being incriminating from the point of viovr of
documenting ITT funds of political activities in Chile have not
been destroyed. ITT's chief lawyer in N.Y. has told Hendy
that while away ona trip recently, at least four young lawyers
in his office read these documents. He tried to transfer onc
of the lawyers out of his office, and the man threatened to blow
the whistle on ITT over these documents if trane red, One
of tho other four lawyers feels equally strongly about these
documents, Asa result, the documents cannot be destroyed.
It is not clear, however, whether ITT plans to turn thes.s th
Gocuments over to the Senate, Evidentally ITT had firsthaped  -
to turn these documents over to the Agency for safekeeping in
preference to turning them over to the Senate.

E. It has been determined by ITT lewyers that biackix

out proper names in docurnents before they turn the docume
over to the Senate sub-committee is vermissable. ‘Ihe IT
lawyers are now going over aii 500 documents to do ihis, cancentrai
on the names of Chileans. Uf they finally turn over the three
sensitive documents to the committee, names of persona, tanks,
and @nding mechanisms will be deteted, but the basic purpose of
ITT funding Alessandri cannot be hidden,

¥,. In discussing these three documents, Hendrix said
that thé man in N.Y. to whom ITT was to have paid the money for
Alessandri was (inu) Orchard; a Chilean ermployed by UN Seerstar
(father than a member of the Chilean Mission to the UN}. The comp:
through which the payments were to be made was the Lene Slar
Shipping Company, (This agrees with information in the files).
Lacked whether the Swiss Bauk account number for other trans-
actions was also listed there, and Hendrix looked puzzled and said
that no Swiss Bank account was involved, WhenI pressed and
baid ray understanding wes that caxlier he had told me money for
the Edwards group went through a Swiss account, he merely
said there were no references to that in these Ukree documents,
He then said one of the three documents was unfortunately a
rnescage fram Gerrity authoxizing thet the Al andyi movement b
given “half the sum recommended by tiendrix,'"' :



5, Hendrix spoke by telephone to Berrellez cn 9 or 10 Niay at
which time Berrellez reported on a meeting that day with Fuyws 2
in Bucnos Aires, Thia was the first time that they had met since their
early April meeting in N.Y. Berrellez tolaFUBRIG-2 that he had net
been alle to make the deposit on the second $100, 00C for reasons Hendrix
had explained earlier to me RIG-2 was concerned by this and asked
that ITT do everything possible to resume these payments since he had
money troubles, (Berrelicz rernerked, however, that FURRIG-2 seemed
in very food spirts parsonally, and quite op stie about the chances
of the opposition in Chile), Hendrix plans to reepen the question of resum:
payments to the Edwards people in Chile when he péts back to N.Y. and
sees Gerrity,

6, The U.S. manager of the ITT telephone manufacturing plant
in Chile slipped up to the States a few days ago and reported that he
thought the government would be moving in on the JIT property very
soon. He had already been authorized by the company to send his’
furniture up, IT‘ is also asking Benjam’ s to come up te the
U.S, for a visit. I reimarked that my recollection was that Holmes
was on rather good personal contact with President Scivador Altende,
and Jose Toja, but Hendrix commented that even Eoliraes was now under
suspicion by the Government of Chile.

olrne.

7. Wendrix heard yesterday from Bob Deach (phonetic) ef the
Scripps Howard office in Washington that Ambassador Edward Korry had
left his position at OPIC and is now the president of a beok seller's
associztion according to a press item which «ppeared within the last
two weeks. Hendrix was unaware of this and asked whether I knew
anything ebout it which I said I did not. eater) :

8. We had a rather interesting explanation of the by-play in
Chile on turning the ITT nationalization question over to the Congress to
decide, WKerrellez reports that there has been a delay in Allende's
proposal that Congress handle the ITT nationalizatien because of
disagreement on how to procced, The fear of some hard-liners was
that the ,overnment was not being tough enough on ITT, Allende's intent
apparently is to make a proposal that the Congress would be forced to

reject it

a chanes to cath a pleb

ite on the
issue wi: about ITT, he could not possibly lese, An interesting
thour



followed ! by a physical exe ed
in that he was originally consi 2d £
graphic ficld, but he has been told the j
who returned to the job zo that instead he is
contract, prebably to yo to aes, He is n
@ contract status vrould give h:
some offer now being made by IRS. He has}
Agency. (Hendrix claimed that Constantine is not aware
Bnd thet she: Hes EMSs. to hax, ‘Stony Bs/
playmient gcosy~ Hendrix made a big point of thie.) IT said it
would be possible to check what the situation was and to find out what the
Agency's intentions were toward Us person, but that I could not ae
in any way the de ie a of hiring, or under what conditions, He
wes careful at t J treatment, but vall
euprensed a fe nar to the eypevent chance jn inb
effers. Ire re, any person who was
be of exceptionally

sn, ‘and ig

on 2 contri th
capability coyld end up 2s a career employee with ua, bub it word
on employrnent ceilings, etc. at the time such a switch was act
considered. “Bo ceemed satisfied with this answer, I said I would check
and let hira-know if there were any unsual circumstances in this case.
My impression is that Hendrix is net overly fond of this fellow, but
respects him and would not try to,interfere on his behalf either way,

: : Jonathan G. Hanke
CIWH/ICA

