# 104-10307-10041

## Page 1

1104-10307-10041

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SPEED LETTER

г0

3

D

54

REPLY REQUESTED

DATE

21 August 1974

LETTER NO.

XX.

YES

FROM:

ND

Chief, OSG/OC, 2B11, XI886

start

Please check your files for any indications that

Subject has ever heen employed or associated in any

way with the Agency. Your reply is requested by COB

26 August 1974.

DESK TRAGES ONLY

SIGNATURE

REPLY

DATE

WH/COG Desk traces on Bobbie Joe Keesee were turned

over to

OSG/OC, on 23 August 74.

Also given

were IP trace documents requested by tre

Cuba Desk, upon learning that the requirement levied on

the Cuba Desk was for desk traces only. The desk trace refs

are included in KELSEE's 201' file except for DCE-14550, 15

May 1962, located in file 100-599, held in IP riles.

We note that in two of the references, DCE-14550 and DBA

10152, KEESEE claimed CIA employment, which was proven untrue.

We have no operational card on KEESEE or other references,

other than those cited

indicating that KEESEE was ever

employed by or associated with the Agency.

carded for cale deck.

Chris Hopkins en

WH/COG/CI

23 Aug 74

SIGNATURE

RETURN TO ONGNATOR

---

## Page 2

13-00000

21 August 1974

Hose

MEMORANDUM FOR: DD/Security for Policy and Management

Executive Assistant to Director of Personnel

Chief, OSG/OC

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

: Bobbie Joe Keesee -- Request for Name Check

: Ltr to DCI fm Asst. U.S. Atty, S.D. Cal., dtd

9 Aug 74, re: United States v. Bobbie Joe Keesee

1. The subject individual has been indicted on serious federal

criminal charges in California. He may attempt some defense based on

alleged employment by the Agency, or in some other manner attempt to

obscure the real issues in his case by alleging CIA involvement in his

activities (see referent letter).

2. It is requested that you determine, from records or otherwise,

whether Bobbie Joe Keesee has even been -employed by or associated in any :

manner with the Agency. An early response will be appreciated.

Seage w. Clanke

GEORGE W. CLARKE

Office of General Counsel

Attachments

•en:

---

## Page 3

13-00000

KEPLY S

a STATES ATTORNEY

AND NEPER TO

NITIALS AND NUMDER

SGN/11đ

United Status Apartment of Justice

UNITOD STATES ATTORNEY

SOUTHERY DISTRICT OF CALIFONNIA

UNITED STATES COURTHOUSE

325 WEST F STREET

SAN DIEGO 92101

August 9, 1974

saste Rossin.

[V-2611

TELEPHONE:

(716) 213-5610

14: 74-145-33

.:.:

Mr. William E. Colvy, Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

20505

Re:

United States v. Bobbie Joe Keesee

Criminal Case No. 74-1158

Dear Mr. Colvy:

The above-referenced individual is presently under

indictment in the Southern District of California for the

kidnapping of Vice Consul John S. Patterson wno disappeared

from his post on March 22, 1974, at the American Consulate

in Hermosillo, Sonora, Mexico,

and whose decomposed body

was discovered on July 7, 1974, in an arroyo approximately

8 miles from Hermosillo. Keesee is charged in count one

with conspiring to kidnap Patterson. Counts two, three,

and four charge him with travel across state lines and in

foreign commerce to facilitate and perpetrate the kidnapping.

Count five charges him with mailing a handwritten extortion

note to the American Consulate in Hermosillo from San Diego.

[A copy of the indictment, as well as a copy of Keesee's rap

sheet are enclosed.l

Keesee may, if. certain presently

unresolved jurisdictional requirements are met, shortly be

charged with the actual murder in addition to the five counts

adverted to above:

As you are no doubt aware, Keesee has a number of

federal felony convictions, one of which involved an alrplane

which he stole and flew into Cuba in 1962.

He was later

indicted in the District of New Mexico and ultimately convicted.

However,

during the course of the trial in late 1963, he alleged

that his escapade across the country and eventually into Cuba

cour the

was carried out at the request and direction of the C.I.A.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

William E: Colby

-2-

August 9, 1971

She jury fortunately recognized the absurdity of his story

and convicted him. Hovever, prior to trial, your agency was

requested to supply, if necessary, a witness

who could refute

such a bizarre tale. Although no direct testimony on this

issue was necessary, you agreed to supply such a person

should the need arise. (I have also enclosed copies of your

correspondence with tha.U. S. Attorney for your convenience.]

I am afraid insofar as Bobbie Joe Keesee is concerned, history

seems to repeat itself every 10 years.

Keasee is now

telling

his attorney, has already told a number of agents, and may

assert at trial, a siniiar type story, i.c., that his

involvement in the above-referenced case arose out of his

relationship with C.I.A. operatives and unidentified

international conspirators.

Although this obviously sounds

a little ludicrous, Keesee has tried it before and is capable

of trying it again.

Considering that he spent 29 months as

a civilian P.O.W. in North Vietnam and in the process had his

teeth knocked out and all of his toenails ripped out, anything

is possible.

It would be appreciated if you could state in letter

or memo form whether Keesee has ever been employed by the

C.I.Ax I am hopeful that a categorical denial of any C.I.A.

employment or sanction will satisfy his defense attorney and

deter him from pursuing this line of defense.

Please be assured

that I will not call a C.I.A. employee as a witness unless it

becomes actually necessary.

••".*.".*"

.:.

•.....

very truly yours,

HARRY D. STEWARD

United! States Attorney

Fittiter

Assistant U. S. Attorney

Chief, Criminal Division

CC:

Mr. John S. Warner

Legal Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

20505

AIR MAIL

Enclosures

---

## Page 5

13-00000

KEASEE, Bobby Joe

CUBA

DPOB ;

18 Feb 34, Wheeler, Texas.

Deserted

US Army, Tort Huachuca, Arizona, on 30 Jan 62

& flew to Cuba 23 Mar 62 where

he asked for

political asylum. las returned to Miami 10

May 62.

Has been

arraigned before fed. gov't

officials in Miani.

Claimed to have been

contacted by one Buddy Carson in Dec 61 in New

Mexico and recruited for work with CIA. Claim

of CIA employment proven untrue. Subj then

stated he had been employed by two "Spaniards"

to fly them to Cuba.

(DCE-14550, 15 May 62)

langtel 100-300

KRISEE, Bobby Joe

Subj is a forer U.Se iry Enlisted Maz SH: RA 25984618.

subj deserted U.s. Army and flen a rented plane from

Albuguerque, Mallo to Celia

subj claimed he was in contact

with a cla agent and encloyes by can to ily plane to cuba.

11le 1000500)

---

## Page 6

13-00000

KEESEE, BOBBY JOE

SEX M DOB 19 FEB 34

USA, TEXAS, WHEELER

CIT USA

OCC ?

AKA KELLY, BOB

RE FLIGHT TO CUBA AND ACTIVITIES WHILE IN

CUBA.

100-500

DBA - 10671 ).

3I MAY 62

1*019

0818554

CLEA

aka Bo J. Kelly, Poh Kally

SUbS, a US dray SeTTCAnE.

¿antes a 11chi clullian place at fabann Alrort 23 Mur 62, describod

hinaols no a l8 Arty denerior and ariend; ciltical asylus.

dray here sald sabject. 27, tias

been

Aleiad do a desorras alreo 2e Fet: iell hia poor al it.

quictuca, Erizora, 1S Jha.

Tila

hore 18

lanted as 17ar1ll0,

34YBE.

suby ras areigned as an operazor of a flighs almilarica

tralring derico and did no: tave accripe

to any milliary

secrato.

Also

uruer lavorilgution

for "pansire boque clocke and for forseri."

To indication whother any asseape would be rado

to bare his returrod to thie courtro.

"inchdoctor post, 25 car 62, 581od 10-7-22) .

Subj landod a cinilo carine piara at Havara, Cubs, Libertad Airport

on 23 March 1962.

S31

popears to te Identical with lobly joe

Keosco,

Arary Sarlal lio.

2528.618, absont without jeavo

fron. Fort Huachuca, hrizora, hus ben charged with interstate trans;oriccion of a stolan

notor rohielo based or. a Federal karrant issued 16 Narch 1962, hollered responsitio for

pa651n, a runior of fraudulont checis at a mmtor of nilitary installations in Maska,

rale, bom 16 Fetruary 1934,

=

DCB-14550, 25 Hey 62, F12odi 100-500, Into do aboro.

---

