# 104-10077-10320

## Page 1

AAAAI

104-10077-1032

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Ma/3/Mextei

15 Déc

594k: Í963

IMWAVE

13 SECRET

ÜAND INPEX

TO FIE NICE ME NO.

19-500

MEXICO CITY

7ĐEC 63 00

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Hoproduce

WH 00

200

I do CEN

& POUTHE

/OPS, CI/JA, FI, OPSEE, SASE ?

WAWS SXI

iNFO

REF: MEXI 7201 (IN 71903)*

PBRUMEN COMO

C1 08 76 19

À, GENERAL PROMISA FURUMEN SHIRE SULNTRY OPERATIONS

ADOTTED UPON ESTABLISEMENI TASA FORES A iNTURI ADOL MAI

THAT ALL FIELD STATIONS MOULD EXPLOIT PEBUHEN OPBRATIONAL

ADPOSTILITIES ANU HANULA FARUMEN AGENTS. THIS VAS DELIBERATE

XUDOVE DECISION TO REDUCE EXIBAORDIMARY EXPENSE AND DIFYICULTY

XXPLICIT IN OPS EBLIG BXCLUSIVILY HANDLED BY CINTRALIZID

OPERATING UNIT. CARE OTFICAR, AGERT OR CONTACT OPERATIONAL

TEAVEL HUST IS CNSISTHHT. VITE THIS POLICY AND SHOULD BR

UNDKRTAKEN VISH IT I8 THS ONLT OR CIBABLY BEST MAY TO

INITLATE OR HANDLE OSTRATION.

2. THUS WILE IS REDOGNIZE THE PROBABILITY Of ExCEPTIONS.

IT IS IDQS INTENTION THAT THE MAXI PBRUMEN OPS GROUP GENERALLY

VILL RECRUIT AND HANDLE,!" ITS ARRA, RBCARDIESS OF SOURCE

ORIGINAL IRAD OR VASTHER OR HOT POTENTIAL IS POR AGEAT INSIDE

CUBA:...!Y AGENT RADIO TRAINING IS REQUIRED FUR RITHER AGENT?

TRAINED IT URI DO MENATE AERSE TATE ITSEG SEXI, SO TAGS

THEMATION H8912E9S

98C*38

б: 000 :-0.:3.-

PEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROTHBITRO.

10857

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Ört.

di::

EXT

O INDEX

( NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS FILE NO.

ВИСВВТ

ROUTING

262034

,. -

10857

PRODUCTION I! OTHE

TRASA 7404

IS TIRE 5 PROMISE.

11

DEMERPEN

ROUTiN't

79 050

PAGE TEX

INTO

CITE DIR

TO IS SUPPORTED BY JANAVE BADIO FACILITIAS, CONNO TRAINII

87€18

OTTICKAS STATIÚNED AI FATE SUCHS E INUS. I' JITURE CABEE

WHIRE CONTINUINO CONTACT VITE AGRAT IN TO DR IN SAXICO,

OPEZATION MORALLY WILL EL HANDLED BY NORI. JANAVE SUPPOSI

HAI DOCABIONAZII IS RE

STED.

3, IN REPOTTING HEY LBADS VICH HAYS BALLEVES THBY BEST

BQUIFTED SURRE FULLOT, FATE ZZASON SHOULD IS (LIARLY STATED

LI INITIAL ANSBRON, CUNTIASELI, H5Z3, IN LIEST DA SPECIAL

STESTANTARIS, MAY EISE VAVE BAHILE CITALS CASTE.

A. IN APPLEXAG ABOVE GENERAL BILES EDAS BORES MAINTAIN

DEGRIS O1 MLSLIBILITY WHICE HILL FERNIT LUBARK NOTS ON TARGETS

VITH SPIRO AND EPFICIENCY, MITS NO LOBS IN ODORDINATION.

BED CY 1I8816

For and reg

casted Idst palley os

OC/AD/. 31810703(28 87897)

cips.

BAS NOB

€.

---

