# 104-10070-10233

## Page 1

AAA

104-10070-1023

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1902.

8. Aug 69

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Subject: CROONDLINGER, Mertin

1 I discussed Stoject's impending arrivel to the Irvine, Cal Noth

Conference in Sept 69, with Eon Shine of the DOS(he is now in the

Past Wesü Exchang: Office) Specifically I asked bin 4) deo erned naca

and dates or the Conference and B) cuzzent status of Subject's processing

co actend this conference.

2. I edvised Don that ve bad no operational interest in Subject es sues,

but that he night come to the attention of the intel conquity aster

ne arrives since his case seems to be unique, i.e. an Puerica voo

becane e Soviet eitinen end then comes out to tira attend e t5: Sponsorod

International conference. Don said there were otbers: lie task, and he

seemed to remenber hesring something abouc Subject. He will choc and advise.

3. I mentioned that this cese may not develop lato anything at all, but

marmegna i1 Subject should redefect or conses to our attention taru

otber channels, it would behoove us to have collected all available facts.

[Is Sandel)

Den called me bacis to davise read he checked with the State Dept and sound

that they were not yet depided whether or not to grant Subject a visa; however

If ve had an ops interest they would consider it. I replied we had no

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS

• DESTROY AFTER USE

$9217

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MEVORANDUM FOR TH

RECORD

Subject: GREENDLINGER, Mortin

1 I discussed Subject's impending arrival to the Irvine, Cal Math

Conference in Sept 69, with Don Shine of the Dos(he is now in the

Bast West Exchenge Office) Specifically I asked bin A) the exact name

and dates o=

the Conference and 3) current status of Sipjecü's processing

to attend this

conterence.

2. I advised Don that

a had no operational interest in Subjact as such,

but thet he might cone to

he attention of the intel community eaten

he arrives since his case 3e

to be unique, i.e. an deericon 1as

becane & Soviet citizen

and then

Insernotional cos

me. Dog goid se

omes out to hio attend e USA spcasored

a vora otbors bitto thos, and ho

ring scrothing coote

3. I pentapeed tood this coso any 20% corolog into 3

ward turn but

faer chornels, it tould bubova us to have collected cil eu!

23863.

Lisandes

Don called ne bao, to cavise that he checked with thy State Dro: d Sound

that they were noü yot decided bether on not to grant Suject tor; houser

if ve had an ops interase they would consider it. I replied va ral ro

special interest in bin and would not vant enyone to rate spocis asceuptions

for no Subject on our benelf. Den also stated that the Conference in

question is " Decisions, Problems and Group Theory', 21 Aug -5 Sept 69,

in Irvine, Cal. Subject is not en official invêtee. Den will advice his

Own Bas in case Subject gets his visa and shows up to the Conference.

[L. Sandel

MICROFICHE

REPRODUCTIONS

DETODY AFTER USE

ConfionAlgeuten

Ardend

69.

L Callers,

---

