# 104-10213-10315

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10213-10315

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-..

= =

аля

SILMAL CENTRNUSAQIAY

aro

TEL

0

SECRET

0818468 MoRals recaron

• TELEPOUCH

0

0

170a180 durane

ATT TO BD-933!

O me

O to more

O prees

E 2

22 12 5 c0 72774

• ATTACHMENT TO BOOK DISPATCH 9335

LETTER FROM FBI HOS TO ITS EIGHT FIELD OFFICES Il CITIES WHERE FP.

BASES/ARE LOCATED.

"THE BUREAU HAS, IN THE PAST SEVERAL MONTHS, RECEIVED A SUBSTAN-

TIAL INCREASE IN URITTEN REQUESTS FROM CIA UHEREIN IT ASKS THE

BUREAU'S CONCURRENCE TO EITHER ASSESS OP. REGRUIT FOREIGN OFFICIALS OR

COMMUNIST-BLOC VISITORS IN THE U.S. FOR THE PURPOSE OF DEVELOPING

SOURCES OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE. IN THE MAIN, THESE REQUESTS HAVE

INVOLVED OFFICIALS FROM THE SINO SOVIET COUNTRIES. THE INCREASE OF

CIA ACTIVITY IN THIS AREA IS PREDICATED ON THE FACT THAT GREATER

EMPHASIS IS BEING PLACED ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF LIVE SOURCES WITHIN

THE SINO SOVIET BLOC AND THE DETERMINATION THAT THE MOST SECURE AREA

OF THE WORLD FOR CIA'S DEVELOPMENT OF. SUCH SOURCES IS HERE IN THE U.S..

AS A RESULT, MORE AND MORE CIA EFFORT AID RESOURCES ARE BEING CONCEN-

"TRATED ON THE RECRUITMENT OF SUCH SOURCES SHILE THE LATTER ARE

_TEMPORARILY IN THE U-S. THIS CIA ACTIVITY IS EFFECTED WITH THE

i .

¿CONCURRENCE OF THE FBI.

"SAC LETTER DATED 2/15/66 DISCUSSED AN AGREEMENT BETUEEN THE FBI

coasta creent

IP USE ONLY

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXf:

if terri.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TEL. B

Q

(

nace co

₴

жато

DATe - pre coone

TELEPOUCH

ATT TO BD-9335

O me Once

O artuanco.

E 2

lAPDET

O - ...

CL BY:

AND CIA DATED 2/7/66. A COPY OF THIS AGREEMENT IS ENCLOSED HEREUITH

FOR EACH OFFICE. YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO REPRODUCE SUFFICIEHT COPIES OF

THE 196b. AGREEMENT IN ORDER THAT ALL PERSONNEL IN YOUR OFFICE HAVIG

LIAISON WITH CIA AND HANDLING FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE MATTERS BE EECECELE

COMPLETELY CONVERSANT WITH THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT.

•"THIS AGREEMENT DOES NOT PURPORT TO CONVEY TO CIA ANY AUTHORITY

OR MISSION BEYOND THAT IN EXISTING U-S. STATUTES, HOR DOES IT IN ANY

WAY ABROGATE THE BUREAU'S COUNTERINTELLIGENCE OR INTERNAL SECURITY

RESPONSIBILITIES. THE AGREEMENT SIMPLY PROVIDES GUIDELINES FOR CIA'S

ACTIVITIES IND PURSUIT OF SCURCES OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE TO ASSURE

THAT THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE U-S. ARE PROTECTED BY THE AVOIDANCE OF

CONFLICT OR OVERLAP. OF CIA'S EFFORTS UITH THE BUREAU'S INVESTIGATIONS

OR RESPONSIBILITIES.

"REPRESENTATIVES OF THE BUREAU AND CIA HAVE DISCUSSED THE

: RELEVANCY OF THIS AGREENENTO IT WAS CONCLUDED THE AGREEMENT IS E

•: CURRENTLY VALID AND CIA HAS ASSURED THE BUREAU THAT ITS INTENTION IS

'TO ABIDE BY BOTH THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER OF THE AGREEMENT. FOR THIS

- REASONT IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT ALL AGENTS IN YOUR OFFICE HANDLING

DATE:

IP USE ONLY

ORIG:

UNIT:

Ext:

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

•OUTGOING TELEPOUCH

TEL S

reco

3

SECRET

TELEPOUCH

ATT TO ED-9335

O a note

O parento

O -rees

E? IMPDET

CL BY:

FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE MATTERS BE COMPLETELY FAMILIAR UITH THE AGREE-

MENT. FOR YOUR GUIDANCE, THE COMPOiENT OF CIA INVOLVED IN THE ASSESS-

MENT AND POSSIBLE RECRUITMENT OF FOREIGN OFFICIALS OR COMMUNIST BLOC

VISITORS IN THE UA-S. IS THE FOREIGN RESOURCES DIVISION EFRDI. THIS

IS A COVERT COMPONENT OF CIA HAVING OFFICES LOCATED IN ATLANTI,

BOSTOM, CHICAGO, CLIBAJASJEVELAND, LOS ANGELES, NEW YORK, SAIL

FRANCISCO AND HASHINGTON, D-C- IF NOT ALREADY DONE, A LIAISON

RELATIONSHIP SHOULD BE ESTABLISHED WITH REPRESENTATIVES

OF THE FRD IN

YOUR TERRITORIES. THE LOCATION OFEE FRO OFFICES AND THE IDENTITY OF

CIA RESPRESENTATIVES ASSIGNED TO THESE OFFICES IS CONSIDERED CLASSI-

FIED AND SHOULD NOT BE REVEALED TO UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS. FRD SHOULD

NOT BE CONFUSED WITH CIA'S DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION EDEDE, AN

OVERT COMPONENT OF CIA UHICH ALSO MAINTAINS FIELD OFFICES. DED

PERSONNEL HANDLE A NUMBER OF FUNCTIONS, INCLUDING INTERVIEWS FOR

POSITIVE FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE OF U.S. BUSINESSHEN, SCIENTISTS, ETC-,

- WHO TRAVEL ABROAD. IF IT SHOULD BE NECESSARY TO REFER A COMPOLAINANT

- TO. CIA, THE PERSON SHOULD BE REFERRED TO CIA HEADQUARTERS OR TO THE

'LOCAL DED OFFICE. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD HE BE REFERRED TO A

DATE:

IP USE ORiLY

OPIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

+410A7ANS 090019

---

## Page 4

14-011000

TELEPOUCH

== mocal

0400.

0178-800860000

ATT TO BD-9335

сa0e8

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY:

LOCAL

•ERD OFFICE.

.. "THE PURFOSE OF THIS LETTER IS TO REVIEL PLRAGRAPHS TUO AND THREE

OF THE CIA-FBI AGREEMENT AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THESE TUO PARA-

GRAPHS ON A FIELD LEVEL. INASMUCH AS AN ASSESSMENT OF A TARGET DE

CECCOFFICIAL ORDINARILY PRECEDES THE RECRUITHENT APPROACH, THIS LETTER

WILL FIRST DISCUSS PARAGRAPH THREE OF THE AGREEMENT.

•"EDURING DISCUSSIONS UITH CIA OFFICIALS AT A HEADQUARTERS LEVEL

IT WAS AGREED THAT CIA WOULD ADVISE BUREAU HEADQUARTERS BY LETTER OF

ITS INTENT TO ASSESS A FOREIGN OFFICIAL OF KNOLN OR PRESUMED INTEREST

TO THE FBI, OR A COMMUNIST BLOC VISITOR IN THE U-S., AND TO ADVISE THE

BUREAU PRIOR TO ANY PLANNED CONTACT FOR SUCH PURPOSES. UPON RECEIPT

OF CIA'S LETTER, BUREAU HEADQUARTERS WILL MAKE A DECISION AS TO

WHETHER OR NOT WE SHOULD CONCUR OR OPPOSE CIA'S PLACING A CIA ASSET

IN TOUCH WITH SUCH A FOREIGN OFFICIAL OR COMMUMIST BLOC VISITOR. THE

BUREAU DECISION IN EACH SUCH CASE WILL BE BASED ON WHETHER OR NOT THE

• PROPOSED CIA CONTACT WOULD CONFLICT WITH ANY CURRENT OR PLANNED BUREAU

INVESTIGATION. EXCEPT IN CASES UHERE IT IS DEEMED NECESSARY, BUREAU

HEADQUARTERS WILL NOT QUERY THE FIELD PRIOR TO RESPONDING TO CIA

DATE:

IP USE ONLY

ORIG:

UHIT:

EXT:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

---

## Page 5

14-00000

and me moscaros

TELEPOUCH

oel#-8008-865000

Montenanaco.

ATT TO ED- 9335

O по сок.

O serumara

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY:

INASMUCH AS ITS REQUEST. VOULD RELATE ONLY TO A ASSESSTENT; HOUEVER,

-

COPIES OF THE CORRESPONDENCE BETUEEN THE BUREAU AND CIA UILL BE

FORLARDED TO INTERESTED OFFICES. THE BUREAU'S POSITION ON SUCH F

REQUEST WOULD BE THE MORE SOURCES UE HAVE PROVIDING AN ASSESSMENT OF

THE TARGET OFFICIAL OF COMMUNIST BLOC VISITOR, THE MORE INFORMED WE

WILL BE. BUREAU CONCURRENCE IN CIA'S PROPOSED CONTACT FOR ASSESSMENT

DOES

NOT IMPLY SUBSEQUENT BUREAU CONCURRENCE FOR CIA'S MAKING A

• RECRUITMENT APPROACH; THIS WILL REQUIRE FORMAL CIA REQUEST FOR CON-

CURRENCE AND COORDINATION PER TEERMS OF PARAGRAPH TWO OF THE FBIYCIA

AGREEMENT.

"IN RESPONDING TO CIA'S REQUEST FOR FBI CONCURRENCE FOR ASSESS-

MERT PURPOSES, CIA VILL BE REQUESTED TO PROVIDE THE FBI, ON A TIMELY

BASIS, WITH ALLEO INFORMATION BEARING ON FBI COUNTERINTELLIGENCE

RESPONSIBILITIES SUCH AS PERSONALITY DATA: CIRCUMSTANCES SURROUNDING

• MEETINGS INCLUDING WHERE, WHEN AID HOU MEETINGS WERE ARRANGED: WHO

= DESIGHATED THE MEETING SITE, ETC-; REACTIONS OF THE TARGET TO SUCH

= MEETINGS AES WELL AS THE TARGET'S ATTITUDE TOWARD HIS FELLOW EMPLOYEES

: AND WORK. ONCE WE MAVE CONCURRED IN CIA'S PLACING AN ASSET, UNDER ITS

ESCECCO EN EERCE ECES ECCEREEGE ERCECRE CE CCEECERE IUSEONLY

UsisT:

EXT:

a nurse

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO

---

## Page 6

14-00000

TEL E

0

+205870649039

SECRET

• TELEPOUCH

0

are - prone coor

ATT TO BD- 9335

О потово

E 2

- O eters

CL BY:

COHTROL, Il TOUCH UITH A FOREIGN OFFICIAL OR COMMUNIST BLOC VISITORA

IT WILL BE INCUMBENT UPO THE LOCAL CIA OFFICE TO KEEP THE APPROPRIATE

FSI FIELD OFFICE ADVISED PRIOR TO ANY AND ALL HEETINGS BETUEEN THE

ASSET AID THE TARGET. AND ON A TIMELY BAISIS CLO TO LY DAYSS OF THE

RESULTS OF EACH MEETING: HOUEVER, THE ABOVE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AHD

COMMITMENTS APPLY ONLY IN THOSE CASES UHERE THE BUREAU HAS AN

ONGOING ACTIVE INVESTIGATIVE INTEREST. FACTORS DETERMINING THE &

EXISTENCE OF SUCH AM INTEREST WOULD BE A CURRENT OR PLANNED FEI

INVESTIGATION OF THE TARGET INDIVIDUAL, KNOULEDGE OR SOLID INDICATION

THAT THE TARGET IS AN INTELLIGENCE OFFICER OR AGENT, AND/OR THE ACTIVE

• *

INVOLVEMENT OF BUREAU SOURCES WITH THE TARGET. IN THE EVENT THE FBI

FIELD OFFICE HAS NO "ONGOING, ACTIVE, INVESTIGATIVE INTEREST" IN THE

TARGET WHICH CIA HAS PROPOSED TO ASSESS, ARRANGEMENTS SHOULD BE MADE

WITH THE LOCAL CIA REPRESENTATIVE TO OBTAIN THE RESULTS OF SUCH

• MEETINGS ON A TIMELY BASIS; HOLEVER, IT WILL NOT BE NEÇESSARY THAT THE

: FBI FIELD OFFICE BE ADVISED BY THE LOCAL CIA REPRESENTATIVE PRIOR TO

• SUSSEQUENT MEETINGS BETUEEN THE CIA ASSET AND THE TARGET. CIA HEAD-

QUARTERS WILL NOT BE REQUIRED TO NOTIFY FBI HEADQUARTERS ON THE

costomera diracens

1P USE ONLY

DATE:

ORKG:

UMIT:

EXT:

---

## Page 7

14-011000

0.089

once

∞ mess

• TEL

çeas

• TELEPOUCH

O osee

0

anarcamaro

ATT TO ED-9335

О по коех

E Z IMPDET

CL BY:

OCCASION OF. EACH SUBSEQUENT MEETING. FBI HEADQUARTERS UILL EXPECT.

HOLEVER, A PERIODIC SUMMARY FROM CIA HEADQUARTERS REPORTING THE ECESCE

RESULTS OF THESE MEETINGS. IT WILL BE INCUMBENT UPON THE LOCAL FIELS

OFFICE TO PROVIDE THE BUREAU COPIES OF THE RESULTS OF MEETINGS

DISSEMINATED TO THEM BY THE LOCAL CIA FIELD OFFICE.

"YOU WILL NOTE THAT PARAGRAPH TUO OF THE FBIE-CIA AGREEMENT DEALS

SOLELY WITH CIA'S OBTAINING CONCURRENCE AND COORDIMATION OF THE FBI

BEFORE APPROACHING FOR RECRUITMENT ANY FOREIGN OFFICIAL OR COMMUNIST

BLOC VISITOR IN THE U-S. UPON RECEIPT OF SUCH A REQUEST IN WRITING

FROM CIA THE BUREAU WILL QUERY THE APPROPRIATE FIELD OFFICE FOR THEIR

RECOMMENDATIONS PROVIDING THE TARGET IS OF INVESTIGATIVE INTEREST TO

THE FBI. BASED UPON THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE APPROPRIATE FIELD

OFFICE THE BUREAU WILL EITHER CONCUR WITH OR OBJECT TO CIA'S PROFOSAL.

A COPY OF THE BUREAU'S LETTER TO CIA WILL BE FURNISHED TO THE FIELD.

• IN THE EVENT CONCURRENCE FOR A RECRUITMENT APPROACH BY CIA IS GRANTED

: HE WILL EXPECT CIA TO FURNISH US THE RESULTS OF SUCH AIN AFPROACH OIL

A HEADGUARTERS. LEVEL AND VILL EXPECT TO OBTAIN IN DETAIL CN A HEAD-

: QUARTERS LEVEL AHY COUNTERINTELLIGENCE OR INTERNAL SECURITY

DATE:

IP USE ONLY

ORIG:

UHIT:

EXT:

сест

---

## Page 8

14-00000

TEL

cossacaion

scient

MessaGe naco morator

TELEPOUCH

D'as nons

0

0

(

ATT. TO 6D-9335

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY:

INFOFMATION DEVELOPED, SHOULD THE RECRUITMENT EE SUCCESSFUL. WHERE

THE SUCCESSFUL RECRUITMENT PRODUCES COUNTERINTELLIGENCE OR INTERCAL

SECURITY INFORMATION, OR THE RECRUITED AGENT PLANS TO REMAIN FOR ANY

APPRECIAELE PERIOD OF TIME IN THE U.S., BUREAU HEADGUARTERS WILL

CONFER WITH CIA REGARDING THE FORCUARD HANDLING OF THE RECRUITED AGENT

IPER PARAGPAPH FIVE OF THE FBI/CIA AGREEMENTY OR FBI ACCESS TO THE

-AGENT (PER PARAGRAPH SIX OF THE AGREEMENTS.

"THE ABOVE INFORMATION IS BEING FURNISHED RECIPIENT OFFICES AT

THEIS TIME INASMUCH AS THE BUREAU ANTICIPATES MINOR PROBLEMS OCCURING

AND MISUNDERSTANDINGS EQDEVELOPING. SHOULD SUCH PROBLEMS OR MISUNDER-

STANDINGS OCCUP, RECIPIENT OFFICES SHOULD ATTEMPT TO AMICASLY WORK

THEM OUT WITH THE LOCAL CIA REPRESENTATIVES. HOWEVER, SHOULD THIS BE

IMPOSSIBLE, ALL OFFICES SHOULD FEEL EFREE TO COMMUNICATE WITH THE

BUREAU BY APPROPRIATE COMMUNICATIONS COMMENSURATE WITH THE PROBLEM IN

• ORDER THAT A RESOLUTION CAN BE EFFECTED AT AE HEADQUARTERS LEVEL.

"THE SUBSTANTIVE MATTERS CULINCED ABOVE HAVE BEEN DISCUSSED

:WITH APPROPRIATE OFFICIALS OF CIA AT A HEADQUARTERS LEVEL AND THERE

HAS BEEN COMPLETE UNAHIMITY AS TO HOU FEQUESTS FOR ASSESSTENT AND/OR

DATE:

coo.

IP USE ONLY

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

FCPADOUCTION BY OTHER FALL THE ISSUING OFTICE IS FROMISITEU

'.'

---

## Page 9

14-00000

•....-

AE+

TELEPOUCH

101. pan tos

ATT TO BD-9335

O code

0 100

E2

ILAPDET

O care

CL BY:

RECRUITMENT SHOULD BE IMPLEME:TED. CIA HEASQUARTERS IS SENDING

SIMILÀR INSTRUCTIONS TO THEIR FRD OFFICES THROUGHOUT THE U.S. IT IS

SUGGESTED THAT AFTER A SUITABLE PERIOD OF TIME HAS ELAPSED FOLLOKING

•THE RECEIPT OF THIS LETTER YOU MAKE APRAIGEMENTS TO FEET WITH THE FRD

REPRESENTATIVE IlI YOUR FIELDECES OFFICE AID REVIEU WITH HIM THE Y..

ARRANGEMENTS SET OUT ABOVE.

"FOR YOUR ADDITIONAL GUIDANCE, THE BUREAU ALD CIA HAVE AGREED

THAT THE FOLLOUING ARE SATISFACTORY DEFINITIONS OF ASSESSMENT AND

RECRUITMENTO:

ASSESSMENT:

"ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF INFORMATION FOR PURPOSES OF APPRAISAL.

THE ASSESSMENT OF AN INDIVIDUAL IS BASED ON THE COMPILATION AND USE

OF PSYCHOLOGICAL, AS HELL AS BIOGRAPHICAL, DETAIL.

RECRUITMENT:

"PROCESS OF ENLISTING AN INDIVIDUAL ETO WORK FOR AN INTELLIGENCE

= OR COUNTERINTELLIGENCE SERVICE."

: EZ IMPDET-r

OATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

IP USE ONLY

MOsSARRANG

df2-

REFROCUCTION EY OTHER TMiN THE ISSUISE CAFICE IS PROMISITED

9947.19

---

