7 1os Sse aonresce ess #.__A.
E PRESIDENT JOH J F 1992
“fo4-10218-10234, (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT ol

ee eee

YO, oreetor

+ “FROM ‘ COPENHAGEN
4cHOnNs = CAVE 2 H
INFO + DOP, ADOP, C/ca 2, C/cA/o 2, C/cI, c/rije, C/SAS 5, RF, VR (SUSPENSE

SECRE 1215382 '

PaRl INFO DIR LOND OSLO 4aDR CPTE OPE 3599
DESEASHUZED 2.» MEN KEYWAY SADOUBT :
REF COPE S386 (HOT SENT PART) Cry 56479 ie t
ie purty THE 4083 RECENT. eA NG OF ‘SadGuBt- J KE REPORTED ZHaT
HE a HEARD

iA Rawx?na orrergt OF THE ce vinistay OF
/
“THE PNTERTOR WHILE IN PARI THAT ROLANDO CURELAJAND ANGEL cuzveco a
VE eLasno vA

AN OFFPCPAL OF THE cuBaN stuskents ore ORGANIZAIONY FEU, HAD -RES! #exz9
D
FROM THE ARMY SFTER oterrourrpab arr nays tn, THE DIFFI-

i
CULTPES bh ie AFTER SOTH MAD COMPLETED 4 SENIxO ARMY TRAINENG

“oS COURSE AND free CF RECEIVINi NG THE RANK OF COMMANDER WHICH THEY
HAS HELD is 7H REVOLUTPON, THEY YERE TCL) BY RAUL CASTRO :
. _ THEY WERE BEPNG DEMGTED TO CaPT. OTH THEN RESPONED,

1 r
S20. S$ 1 ALSO REPORTS a CARLCS FRANQUI HAS BEEN FERED FROY “aes
POSITION AS EDITOR oF revouucros. THE NEWS wAS. a 10

RANUUI"S DEPUTY SaRUSKY WHO PS PRESENLY OSLO BY cufan PRESS

ATTACHE LOND PABLO ARMANDO FERNANDEZ. S ~1 STATES THAT HE HAS
: ueand FROx OTHER SOURCES HAT FRawQUI HAS BEEN A PROGLEM To

eh FOR SOME TIME AND THE LATTER ane OFTEX COMPLAINED Te
cEsaR. EscaLayre, CUBAN PROPARANDA cuPEF Thar FRANGUI tas TOO
GORE Ze af

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING

pie oN



Peale
7 ED MESSAGE ~ PAGE. 2.
INDEPENDENT PH OHPS YRITING, THINKING, FSCALANTE USUALLY
i KOISNISSEO COMPLAINTS BY SAYING HE HAD NO COKTACL OVER FRANQUI.
we 3, NO PuDEX, a : :

4 SECRET : i :

C/S COMMENT: RE MEETINGS WITH SADOUBE-1 28 AND 29 oft.

