# 104-10168-10010

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10168-10010

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DATE

FROM =

INFO &

057 ES/DLD:

i el

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

21 JANUAFY OR

SECRET

DIRECTOR

HAVANA

WH 5 DORIS PRIEST WA DIV. MOTIFIED 0350, 21 JAM 60)

DEl, D/DC1, 0D/P,

COP, A/DD/P/P,

IHOG 2,

FI

FI/ROM 2,

PP 2, PP/PRD, PP/PROP, 100

4, WE 4, DO/I

AD/CI, S/C 2

POUTING

JAN ZI 09 46260

REC'Ü MULE SECT.

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

20-2

IN 31098

OPIM DIR

RE: HAVA 3153 (IN 26523

20-1

HAVA 3241 (IN 31173) (NOT SENT<MADR),

CITE

HAVA 3255

1.. IN TV APPEARANCE EVENING 2P JAN FIDEL CASTRO READ

PORTIONS OF LETTER PURPORTED TO HAVE BEEN WRITTEN BY SISTER-

IN-LAW DIAZ LANZ IN WHICH SHE MAKES REFERENCE TO VISITS TO

AMERICAN AND SPANISH EMBASSIES ANG. ASSISTANCE BEING RENDERED

BY CERTAIN PRIESTS, NUNS AND CHURCHES. CASTRO THEN PROCSEDED

TO ACCUSE SPANISH EMBASSY AND SPANISH PRIESTS COMPLICITY IN

COUNTER REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES AND MADE SLIGHTING REFERENCES

TO SPANISH AMBASSADOR. HALF HOUR LATER OR AT APPROXIMATELY

8030 HOURS 21

JAN WHILE PROGRAM STILL IN PROGRESS SPANISH

• AMBASSADOR MADE UNEXPECTED APPEARANCE, ATTEMPTED TO PROTEST

BEFORE THE CAMERAS, WAS DENIED PERMISSION TO DO SO BY CASTRO

AND.. AMIDST SHOUTING AND CONFUSION WAS PHYSICALLY ESCORTED FROM

THE STUDIO BY MER-ERS OF CUBAN ARMED FORCES.

2. WHEN QUIET RETURNED FIDEL LAUNCHED INTO BITTER TIRADE

AGAINST THE AMBASSADOR AND FRANCISCO FRANCO AND ANNOUNCED HE

WAS GIVING THE SPANISH AMBASSADOR 24 HOURS TO LEAVE CUBA. CAMERAS

TURNED TO PRESIDENT DARTICOS IN THE AUDIENCE AND HE MADE THE

SECRE.I

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

1 RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DATE

1O

FIOM !

ACTION.

INFO

TO

21 JANUARY 68

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE -

SECRET

PAGE 2.

CPEPATIONAL IMMODIATE

IN 31690

HA VÀ 3255

CITE

INFO

EXPULSION ORDER OFFICIAL. PROGRAM THEN CONTINED.

3. THIS UNDOUBTEDLY MEANS BREAK. OF DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS

WITH

I SPAIN. FILED: 218645Z.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: ADVA:CE COPY MADE AVAILABLE FOR WH AT 0350, 21 JAN 60.

*Reported that the Cuban Government was planning to dorn grade its Emuassy in

Madrid.

**Reported that Castro was scheduled to appear on trievision on the night of

21 January.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

