# 104-10114-10083

## Page 1

104-10114-10083

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

(When

filled In)

TO

FROM

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND (OR) NAME CHECK

Deputy

Director of Security

ATT:

Mr. Rice 3 2640 1

Chief, CI/Operational Approval

and Support Division'

507

DATE

PROJECT

28 February 1957

POSA requested by

15 March 1957.

SUBJECT

#112569

..2: METHOD'OF-H

TYPE :OF

REQUEST

раор. л.

EXPEDITE

ROUTINE

P.OR :.:"!:"DA

iNDICES "RESULTS REQUESTED BY

•A'"FBI CHECK REQUESTED

BY (Dato)

AREA:OF SUBJECT•S ASSI

ENMENT

(WH/III/Dabs)

USE OF SUBJECT

see remarks.2

INVESTIGATION -MOT TO REVEAL- INTEREST:DE:

28: „COVER SUGGESTED FOR INVESTIGATION

COMMERCI

"BEE REMARKS "

OTHERS

8.- RESULTS-OF TRACES

FIELD -TRACES.

TRACES

GREEN LIST

YES

PHS

10.

ATTACHMENTS

PRO-PART .!

O THER:

12.BREMARKS

68:

Subject

¡ served cla in a contract capacity since 1949, with a continuous

high evel of performance.

He'is currently assigned to-fuba, where he is being

utilized a the Principal Agent for Project AMPHODARCH) | Project AMPHODARCH) is an

FI bperation designed to provide information on political activities! (including

Communist) in trivereity circles in Havana, Cuba. In view of his outstanding

record and strong overall qualifications, and his expressed desire for a career

with CIA; It his beekrecommended he be converted from contract to career agent

LES

200 of 208

FORM

NO.

APR

693 USE FRETIOUS EDITIONS.

220-1813

13N4

Some Quell, f

SECRET

---

