2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RI

SERED.
cae

PERSONAL Ih

. ‘i 3

Looe Ld ee

piirt PUMAtiatMenkatu 404) (abe BWiewetad Sex 8 Bal, Co:
| ater ttt M3: as,

scope” gpa nett

ree : ‘oir

ob beta tee
[Herons] SO Load... toe WS are;
‘ eS Bile, Regie

yrewratsvon
i

Sate. sere

re HT et das.

0b... jaawena ya

Davee) 2082 600 p38 te

_ Saened. or Sastry ee ;
Gite + Tawinliand) very atinactis.. 0.

a
owe odor, eo da ae 1927 fer
mm.» 1M Pesororaa sce

hte aloo on?

3 \ewaier Bubsle Pinniah noti-eably weaer than I. To SURG
ter} | Knows Fiaaieh rather vell. Vaan
<]7;| Suet apace no Mualtghe © AS Tee Eed)s0 wt ui

(NEA SS Pe seeoun castes ae goyarion

fates? —-
vin. gs fe Subj claims ty nave-peen a ¢
rp action tn Lenirret and Seacce--~ at ix

OAZA NAS LAR Mle Bo Sy Bass$an ant Puutone

fuaa tt acd

SR, eppeared quite stern, Searce the: ht ech

pitbencs Se edeired tha materiel sosoup]tahvent

59 he very wach @ Sov Come and to pot ferectabl
1 wt th good f haar.

ied testi Pi Pee opie bs heer a ae Wayirg tis part

paeercers
ET EY" a4

F [lonenséz) | source eatd waht: stated be had sttcaded eocindars’ sebcoi aid tha”
lengangs nett Sia : ‘
A “SASS NAY tateg, bor war aon "af
: eis tas

sinaver] | Thea pert ed] shoved sudJ photo of Nita children, oud) beonne qcite
a Rlmoet vept. Bemarts: that he and Ale wife have wanted °
dave ahildrea for patt 6 yre., out “neve Sed mo eutsene. Apresred
Leagant te eoures, but after sonevhat ruthless interriev vith seme
mothers vio vere bering kin to allow retura of thelr sone from

Feole euby
ery pleeenst and

JMRY 52 vine we ugg secert

RDS ACT OF 1992 |

Backgro:
: 10 Not Repr

Lind Us)

IRNTO

1A
Only’

Oduce

IY



SECREL

“A. GESDIPR-M ants $u2js fase vas Temi liar te hig: vies given the

bane’ seuree ait there was a it, Sol, Gic% da the MOR (aow Loa)
Sourge 414 not knov Vateh dtrestorate be wae tr = mt ght Me toabniey
wevtlon = put knav thet he wea ‘fairly bict toep. Socios ecald
net Focal wbsther le hat ever soon Subj #0 does oct know Uf Ohta te
tha sara porecu, - (

he ts a> pwert
you are sally that
cs here fn MLA? Sous st start didi m
t: Subs ta aunattons ta exeatizg in view,

ne dete of cha’

2%

Bares tavited to gire Lleoturve oa aath Ln OSER.- teen after ro=-

oviving the invitetion, be end vife ware ia bar of Melstant Feetouren
wren oubj and fau RASTER, 6 Finn Settee tantaen eb, Mle sad: inky
duced ‘thescelvas. Sb) Bsationed sourte’s tents? trip te USD. i
1014 source to cone to Sob Bab next day to most the Dalturel attedts,
vho could arrange to get sources to USS end back vithoct cast. decro
lavited wud! and Rist to hin hone for dinner feDexing euotar. Base
cccepted. MG) peld entire blll. a sestneeee

Thea source west Sov Bab pext day et Yuriy YOROMTE and wah, aleo
SEROTYET. V. Anvited hiveolf to dinner vith sit at everse’s basa.
‘Bij, TOROUIE and vives veat to course's dor Aimcer, bearing Eaay
Proeeote, BsSkD did not cone. Subj told source "thie BAIXS fee

Svine.* “Falt thot 10 ocvccary to ues theco Fina Oeamdos politically
‘bed that thay cannot de trusted, 7

Ri awete

1, dens ®. ta oubjta chiets i
+ Seo fOPHRJ126? , [Fw 1792, {Or iA] 1823, wich x edite tre debriefing
of(rthar Je Lohvater) (Bebristiar cares gare of the points)

[P+ One Mine OOLUS, b. 1867, arr Picland vie sasieecda ¢ Boece
{o( reeids pernarentiy®. Frasibly Subs's wifer? .

=

(6 wa/Limeited to a Cazevel! lunch for Tran YePisort ch smomy
Foon RES who used title of Gonsul in Finland at tinea) 17 Doo $5.
Aleo present was (fam) OOLUB, wio was ictrediced as tre nex

(igs noter asoune this ts Sabj), sul! has bom in Fislant eohan

5. TSF "p:eeeated calling carte to CO Officers, Yew offctally instal:
as Le Ye SEQEYE!'y replacecents
te SWsy Kovare on sew bbw last 20 ar 37,

Fbl & wife on Mp itst Jan 57,



rope
roosts

indastgs

[ean < act uf Prat Seal eeghh (Pa:
*eape 2}>:- ether woxuse ANSE N SR aserbgy
Veg sy (Ohaf, PALS Sieg) sod Jest Maniies w >

‘oF elitornticny: seo att te“) TS
ibecaka iO
B the faioving wndei’s roe
ined to Johannes VIE: en :
acy atta to cases of F-itieh ~

Soviets had infe retsrting
to furnish it to the -rcurity

at <a CER ty Od nef
tn wid—Dee: wi VAT

38 passed tofetation] OGLB bad. sony
that the Find security palice vere got part
ceive) & Mericen eapionage an Pin), adiley th. ¢!
Mestern espionage ix Fini amt vnld: be -
: GOB s0d2 pone of the vestern vera old & some news. Did not
slebc Seuroe did net say vhat VIPCLATTN'e rectly vas to OGLIR,
(IBZ) tea said 1% wouls ehoove 415 officers to Hele to be as careful as”
> PoGeitle cause it quite sessitle seourity pice wocld receive ordert to kees,
otros qx-thelr eyes obarply peeced for oyar fevolvirg Plerish eltizans. Pendleton
H briefed ai] sontar CoLARL peopie, CGUKIT aan said hé hait reod a. warnirg
few days osrlier from 4 frieniiy Fienish officer that another ODUSIT of ftrer
+ Rad been. seen too frequantiy dirine driving « Volkavaren w/dirl plates arund
fredght yards of Yale (“his was NIT's energetié. faztary & fretent. caf
parking prograz.)- The COAT! mai eajd bia farsly bad netieed Finnish policena
stan om the beet outside bis. touse La! recently becur.to go te shore booth £ rake
a call every tie tha amnion Uc¢Sii mar left’ hi Reuse ari drove ‘toynits tou, 4
took warring seriously.( V7 te toi] us, ary further develo;nents,

lover)
: aur
«Part,
Says
acne} : : snen .
Ta S45. ab! are Paul Sroa Maden Nev $7, £ pee .
Mow 57 ws 7
alta) uF Sans "0 vite arr Find trea’ Yessey 5
“dan $8 7 Set -
pasdex DS th vaectton TOR ca dow. w¥e a
Ps ae : certs
Subj & wife on Mr Liat of July 1988 i
“ipl LisE aby & vito on dip) itsts i i
Bg i
TBuby & wife on June 1555 Dipl. List. {
Xu : }

Yai I299 gio and vite on 1k Sov ter
cowenrs .



chewet?
tT rignt to

If Sue govt bad +
mike time thru po

eteplitots to mare be en:
Sdwn ested 1f he tho: vere, pry deeper
$ te Ree Sov gunbite; [Fak laT pe ite that
Giseal tre:Seviets todo anythti pore than dr,

) tanta.

:a\
ee a on veaiea (ates Ae tevited b
ole he Tee Su}, for gro #raton, wanted *
a en(yTdust mg axes to keep tnformed of carts

! ee even thon [¥/5)" cant delp hie, exaayles
Balirnote. Uaat our VAIWTERS ant Antti PRTARA are dn Faaparazta, Ne has photo:
Accunenta.& knows that an’ inetloen inteorregsteathese non tn Raaparsata,
dn:amerivan Captsin' (5, did not résamber-nase) eaid, vh'le he vas drunk, that t?
detective: W:STIPAEO fs sis friend ard baw the fob of keering ek ‘Sf Soviets :
Ha. tends that there ead a aty of Seardinnrtan’ Gerarity ehtots if in Ror &
o STHCLYR: (Sueden) © SEXSEN -(Decmark} % the Lor ehiol attented . this was

| The sericen eilicare’h “es oaly 7.

appear in the Corps Dir: ;

Sele Bjork, the Aner, 222

2a, Tat one wont in’ the talk 9
w/a Aiplonat'a fod, ays that hts

~ fan norzal consular duties,

thes tr Hele at

ting tnteresta n
iy dicloratio «

levies

Cor Gs

alk i me wy lead ie

sen tentacle amend ae So eaten



ro eval ese Sats

JO Den 58

7 3800. “Ge YB Fed roatilte vas invited to lurk by GHB lurh lastedfor 3 bre.
pL) Mar 59

23 Yay 59 core reste aud Subjn views Sov interest serene hal Sb) fetes
Gioua her trips
but intends

sMertera® nedy, the “ores hat neivaiae 6
far as fe knows, no oter Sinessoviet slot, rare
MUS yato he Carpe.

RUE, atvented a ea Consular “orpe Jowdeas on 10 Dew $8-—during.
lumheon %, tas ictredumed 69 new Viverensul from U.3.—after lunch OLB: -ame
ireetly up to “oatiilo, introduced binsalf and asced “. to join hia et hie ain
table for -affve ant sogaa-. J2h) ves extrosely Srienily and proceeded. to a
the usual P31 type queetiona, @urn an “natt}le's hus ia Statas, how long he'd!
been in Pink, dit he have a dinl title, et+, Sub) mentioned that hie vife: wa i)
tm tom Sov Caton ant that he wae Living alone in his apt. Sut] speaks no Engh teh,

:. @O Pineish vas wed, :

(Hqe ecamentt A phdte wane tn u/this dtapated—ostille, OLB and 6 others, 2]
vent to SR/2/K for filing.) :

(For details see GOLUB's 20) folder, is ee this rt te filed.}-er see aed

ia Finland's chronoa,)

fcant #19 Result af Coot file's (KEaRK) Kok Tips See chrene ta Finland. ar
20 Mr 59 " ela
4a 3359 ee Contact, wfegian on 13 “or 59,‘ See ehrone fn ‘dalands 2 |
1? Apr $9 : i
f [rxi3}220 seit to nae 16 Mey. Sbo on sane train Lontnaral te Bole vous §
Subj disenseed i

“KS acovspanies Sov writer to Lontegrad,
fatated Subj frisntly, |

jege ehesk ani did not appeer sus;
far poet JES soe mth sine rtirme Sho aot able go but
acco:

cad Subf vent Leningrad to Mest Sov Intarnal Security Police
ty measures KXRUSECHEY Scandinavia trip,

On & Hay Subj phoned Costille (KUBARE) for lunch that day, Most of tho tise ua:

2 Gra 3909
E gpest on palit © onversation and po palitical topics ware discussed, “Subj aska

botee end-fanily in the States and his vacation plans. Subj ssatia
t goog te to bs able to take a vacation this sumer.as bo had bopod
ten 0, aated bin vty, be gare ‘the reason that the smb, vhon Subj dexcribed of:
etiil baing nev ant vot ¢: ta, Pare of Masel? yet, ba told hin be Wanted Bt

Gi to remain in Hols as ease only person of officer rank in the vonsalar
Maybo it's cause KEROSECHEY 1a coning to. Hels thia omer.
Rot once during the lunch df4 the subject mentioned in refs (C's trip to U3SA —
and treatment accorded hin) come up, (For any further ecuments see Fin) ebrond

Cori) 097 ~“Kecently Sabj bea Secs making efforts to iuvite younger. mesbore af tho ‘
; 8 Hey 1999 Weetarn embassies to luca to view Sogiet movies playing at locai novia i
 hoaeoe; Subj favited Tomard 3 1 singleton Canedles}, kydin Tagea (Tart) y

» apsther Govist <-Makayer @t these tee Iunchoons acting as interpreter, :

: beyilts'we art Interne by « pio eal fron 93 Sorting nat H
[ecoa ss Phisa for inte oo COLE & 3. murrrey aging that doth Sortet “offictale

Anatiynted by GCLUB wes nllagedly to imuré SH. tion procedure.
HMKIEY acted as O's interpreter threxdout the ute, Crasit}eas a trace in the!
files referring to GOLIB es Soviet Intell Ortioar acting Gb ttaison nan w/the

Fiszish Qecurity Palice, -~ .

59 Rave been in sosial contact w/abre of the (SHAD) Lo; nS This contact


ska

vee

3 nat casled ain tmvdites aie te
sodastrited thesnotdert at tae atrmart enite, favtealr, male Pot
V Placet.rery Little erecee tr tie eacuracy of the accwcst. “FI. . ss
SAL, That te Wey oF thefeet strat tise oth Aeartce achietes were
Left bent r: Sovisan, Re could well enteratenc that Nerreyaca
are had seedt tarts the moti sf mameretion, be does nt
ballove that enychiny, furiber til ecet of che cove. Certainty
ADA Mintetsy 6° Interioh plans te forget shit dt mnless' a bee
J wien sai rat Dl

say: {fain ant nas been
alli to the Sortet " Te Be haa alreaty depar:
(OUT too plates tmatarpsir le 5 Worried any tpasy mat, iseceatly
we ~Sorietes: or at isaat TL, de not. believe [POIs Odi story, a ws (eS OF
7 M fiat for this doubt Az:iness {4 that wien tne“ stapning Tetieent a
RIS Se se te ade ae
ap ae QA> speaite Pinatsnweii, “akoudl ast wee
to aggre, who also has a. fa

in in spoaking

2 bane a tes
\

Cae gag od
paid yy wide eee
eae

: Vee ones Ye ye
aus A til ces esTS

Va DEY, ae ta \tomlinwe dreoned all Carag vidas

: —
Com, ao
ees Serart scree Saige E. CLR wee
~ Sas he is rat ae fA“ 1 rogeurdingl 74° ta v/haericars,
oO) (See forrvQJ3177, %& Jan 2 coe

ae :

a3



BEEBE EEE

Grtgoriy Ts OOLS
rot + > :
S459. On 13 Apr CostiNe seg

17 “ape 59 tn the Soviet nt=r
oy ——letgthy report, see;

(Ormd) 30en Detatied report oa

10 Aa 32_ddepaton in bie 20L fallen: :
a artis. notiveshle has deca virtcal cessation of atiemte ty Wi fier ses
Bals]6 Wer 59 to meet and entertain the s2.Vice Consul, who had been sudject to alaost :
a weekly telephone calls and invitetiong during the spring and-early sumer,
=) Subj's new reticence dates froa Aug, 15. when he was entertained by Aa Vice;
+ Consul at a dimer in a Hels dence-restauraat, Since that Lise Subj”
a bas called the Vice Coasal only ence to take him to lunch on Ost, 175
Cok] 4279 Fr ingting figs up to dete rele P UN K/$OOUB reaations Ipy So eiue te
niated  _egeh other ‘or, wens 1

see dfemiteh

basis, ete, Zor dat

a
Abt.com mei


Be bg aay tald. Godtitie (CESARE) ‘that be bet been in Pink nov for-abovt, four yeare”

0-58

taf
9

Ssext) be answered Rosoov,. ie atated that over three. years was too long to be

EGET. cult l oes

|

Hh

Lots eases
7, We having 4ifft
Asha

to cow pa Bel sote
wae elle to; pct these:

Kowevery, +
Yeh) worde Inte An

asi that Se hat tece enjoying Bisrel€ very euch ani ixed Fin) art tbe Finca,
Bd not speck Rog] ie ‘na he’ vould thas promt,
bs 3 ‘ tb in hia opinion were too far free Die. hemt
‘fo tbs Soviet {Ontea, ~dacdg-to So ',> this ‘male travel hese; well aa phore. >
calla, too'eaperaive, when Costilie asiced hin vhere be voall like to be sect °

n giver (t2.t
ty vent to SR fron 2
ri Tee Svurce said ‘tat SCLUb tad told[ts-r
croséed the Picntst-Sevtet foster nur Teat:
ard vas being sald tr the Soviets, CWE. did act: reveal the rae of ths agen
fut said that be ved heen tra! 8 :

panned tn Kay?
Poaxrime-)

737, above, fa} Zee at
tome a Avid that "em woe
later, and he sicted tor
arrerted tro the

the ster? (Te
iogacuel to info
called Faotine (+
an urgent ~a lerencet Tin halt an noe
CUB had reported to EAI Plar a seatern avent hat ten
Sov Unton near Tsstrs, ?

‘callie

ts ard ther. te: st At ce tent eves ioanat mtg]

fectlv, femative answers
4 pruveestion, concortid beta Suviats and

A courteretniarce to recent revelations of
Lee Siete). 2

car for
Foodine thinks the woe story
set afoot trru LE t+ serve 2
4 onace :ir. a

on to sav teat
corrind &





it. would cocur after’ the visit to.

the ‘other 3 «
Pinl would de puraly uneffielals é :

‘
{

