“"o4-10213-10234]

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

neue,
: - Do Not Reproduce

H/COS: 344-75
10 January 1974

HEHORANDUN FOR: Chief, Hostern Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT

REFERENCE 2 Chicago Tribune Articles of 23 and 31
Hee : jeceaber

1.

o? Salvatore Glancana and Richard Cain”

A routine name check was conducted on Salvatore

Giancana with negative results. A check was then nade with pei
the Office of Security to daternine whether their records
reflected that one Salvatore Gfancana was evar employed by

CIA as alleged in the referenced Chicago Tribune article of

31 December 1973. We were advised that any Inquiries con-
cerning this aatter should be made to Hr. Breckinridge,

Deputy Inspactor General, WH/COG touched base with Hr.

referenced article.

Breckinridge who said that he had received a copy of the

2.

We have developed the following information on °

Richard Cain, subject of the referenced 23 Decenber 1973
Chicago Tribune article. Richard S. Cain was bora tn Chicago,
TiVinois in October 1931. He dropped out of the first year

Of high school in 1947 and enlisted in the U. S. Aray where

he served until discharged in 1550. Following his aray service
he was assocfated with investigative enterprises in Hiami and

Chicago.

In 1956 he entered the Chicago Polics Departaent

(Vice Squad) where he remained unti] 1950. Concurrent with
that exploynent he operated the Accurate Ledoratorfes, a private

investigative business. Listed below is a chronology of CIA
contacts with Cain: :

.

A. Fall of 1960 - Cain initiated contact

with the DCD Chicego Field Office and vol—
uatarily provided information on the active
ities of Cuban exile groups in the Chicago

area. : 5
Vitherg Guten
£ ? - ht . is
a Bye o54sss SEDR ET Qain #27
FIle

PI tg, AEN ARB I ign,



o3|Narren Dean

o3 Scott and

a Ate

-2- aif

B. June 1961 = Cain ‘contacted Hr. Lohmann,
of the Chicago Field Office, to report an
approach nade to hia by a fir. Kroupansky
who reportedly vas negotiating with the
President of Panama to investigate coanunism
in Panaza. Cain was to assist Kroupansky in
this endeavor.

C, Sumner of 1951 - Catn was met in Hexico
City by a CIA staffer, tdentity unknown, -
purpose unknown.

D. October 1963 - Cain rote to Nr. Lohmann
from Panaza. He reported on his findings of
attitudes toward the U. S. in certain Central

* Aderican countries and offered his services to

tha Agency.

£, April 1962 = Cain sade an unannounced visit
0 Agency representatives Ninston Scott and
jin Nexico City and fnforned then
an investigative agency he had in Hextco :
(with branches in Chicago and Los Angeles) which
he used to provide police training to Mexican
Governnent agents. Cain could provide no proof
of U. S. gitizenship. He was told by Hessrs.
Desa] that the U. S. Agbassador did not
approve oF Aserican citizens becoming involved
in Hexican politics. :

F. 4 June 1962 - Cain was deported from Nexico
for carrying a loaded revolver and brass knuckles,
1opersonating a Mexican Governaent official, and
violating his tourist perait by working.

G. 19 August 1963 - Cain was nat at the Lake
Shore Drive Athlatic Club and Adolphs Club tn

Gorace’s Iliaots by YH Division stat? officer,
3

lorace Speedy and the Chie? of the Chicago 0CO
ffice. The~contact report states that jn the
distant future Cain vould like to wort overseas,
possibly with CIA. It was pointed out to Cain
that his current cooperation with CIA aight be
of benefit to hin should he apply for employzant
with CIA in the future. At this tins Cain worked

=2-

scssiaiie —_ eee eet



i
i

-3-

for the Cook County Sheriff's Office. He
also was in contact with Cubans in the Chicago
area who were involved in veatures which were
Not coapletely legal. Cain was told 07 Agency
requirensnts in general, and agreed to assist
the Agency by Providing information on under=
cover activities of the Cubans, espectally
Paulino Sferra and his contacts, providing
nanes of any Cubans who night ba use?ul to
CIA, and noting in particular runors of any
CIA contacts in the Chicago area. . -

HW. 26 and 30 August 1963 = Infornation fron
Cain to the DCD Chicago Office nas Passed to
the Cuba Desk at Headquarters, The 26 August
information concerned the Student Directory, a
Cuban exile group located in Nfaat, Florida.

The 30 August inforsationrreported Hiro Cordozo's
interest in purchasing arns, ° pane

I. 11 September 1963 - Horace ee

"a PCSA/CSA on Cain but there fs Ro indication

it was ever granted,

3. 12 September 1963 - Cain reported to the
Chicago Field Office information on persons
claining to be representatives of the DRE -
Directorio Revolucionario Estudfantil - who
Purchased arns for the DRE. Cain planned,
another meeting with the al eged DRE rep-
resentatives 03 (Horace Speed) via DCD Washingten
and DCD Chicago, got word tO Cain to “get out
of the picture’ as soon as possible and to nake
ho conaftnents. : :

K. 1967 ~ The Office of Security files show
that the FBI in 1957 Initiated an investigation
on Cain because of alleged Nafta connections,
For this reason the FBI recommendad that CIA
terminate its association with Catn. -

L. 15 Aprt] 1972 - cain returned to Chicago fron
Hexico City, then disappeared about 1 Hay 1972

-3-



i
i

“fe

saying he was going to Latin Anerica.
Cain allegedly was involved in 41legal
international aras deals end on various
occastons stated he w3s working for CIA.

H. 16 Hay 1972 - An FBI agent tn Hexteo
City asked Hexico City Station for traces
on Cain. According to the Fel an Eastern
Airlines pilot had identified Cain as the
skyjacker who forced him to fly to Honduras
on 5 Hay 1972, : .

3. There fs no indication that a clearance was ever
granted for the use of Cain by the Agency or that hs recefvad
any compensation from the Agency. Ue have been unable to
substantiate Cain's claim that he worked for the OSS during

Orvilte Bathe
c/ita/coe

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - COG Chrono
1 - coG/os
. vo Originator
“W- Off. of Sec. L. Howe
1 - 201-323871

DDO/WH/COG/OS:CHopkins:rb (typed 10 Jan. 74)

> Tears

