# 104-10429-10000

## Page 1

1704-10429-10000

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

22 June 1976

Attached is a copy of the SSC's Warren Comuission

report.

Although

not bound, this is the manner in

which it will be released to the press at noon

tomorrow, with a press conference scheduled to coincide

with

the release

for 1:00

p.m.

tomorrow.

Due to time

limitations, the SSC will not have a printed bound

version ready for several days.

The

attached is

currently being edited by the SSC Staff for typo's,

etc., so

it may vary

slightly from

the one

to be

released tomorrow.

• 11.

Stive sut

Review

Staff

Distribution:

IG

(Breckinridge)

DDO (IA - Sturbitts)

A/DOI (Falkeiwicz)

DDCI Designate

OS (Rearion)

DDO

(CI Staff)

Review Staff

(Bolten)

---

## Page 2

13-00000

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

21/0

5

ACTION

APPROYAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGMATURE

Daw, thanhe

а

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

C/CI

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

годи, на 237

Use previous editions

DATE

SECRET

(40)

lipo

---

## Page 3

13-00000

TRANSMITTAL SLIP DATE

TO:

Dan Mesclur) - cI Staff

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

- 2 8 46

REMARKS:

Could you please read this

quickly this afternoon

for

any security matters

that I

may have missed.

If we get

them to the SSC this afternoon

they can correct the

copy

gong to the printers.

(Steve

Q3

Hunt)

FROM:

ROOM NO.

FoR 59-241

Seymour Bolten

BUILDING

EPLACES FORM JE

HICH MAY BE USED

EXTENSION

(57)

MEMORANOUM FOR: C/C/

I've read this per Runi Staff

were se witter and place

report suto proper paro. OThe

stylistie c

made.

She"s prated o copy

da

Date

22/6

73 101101

---

