# 104-10015-10148

## Page 1

104-10015-10148

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

mhe following

thor1zGLASSIFIED MESSAGE

REFE

Siened

TO

1 DIRECTOR

R.O. #2-39nC071C/RKA

FROM , BERN

Mote:

If destruction, cite

ACTION, C/EE 3 LEE NOTIFIED AND COPYRSEGATED AHA

INFO , ODP, ADDP, C/CI, C/SR 5, D/OS 2, VR

2

3

ROUTING

54

41

15

i 61

DATE

26>0063

OUTING.

0x, 72,92, 0R

IiD-

STROY

26 Now 63 IN 6 8 3 4 4

SEC: ET 261987L

IMMEDIATE DIR INFO IMMEDIATE GNVA

CITE BERN 2493

THAT KUDESK INK

CLASGLEIGATION THAT 1976

CONDUCTED ON_

R: T5M 2403 (1N68313)

i IMPDET CL BY. 012208

1 "OLL STATION COMMENTS RE SUSSTANCE PARA 3 REF BASED

EXAMINATION OF REF NEMO AND INANITION 6 TELEPHONE ANSWERS

OT FOlA ReView on

TO ELMARD QUERIES.

?, DELICATE SOURCE REFERRED TO IS TAP OF GIBSON PHONE

APR 1975

IN LAUSANNE APPARENTLY UNDERTAKEN BY LAUSANNE POLICE/PTT AT INANITION

REQUEST. EXISTENCE TAP NOT PREVIOUSLY KNOWN TO STATION. APPEARS

LIKELY IT UNDERTAKEN IN RESPONSE TO STATION REQUEST FOR INFO RE

GIESON IN CONNECTION "REVOLUTION" MAGAZINE AND HIS AND ITS

CONNECTIONS TO CHICOMS SUISSE, OR TO GATHER DATA TO REPLY TO ODENVY

REP REQUEST FOR INFO.. ANTICIPATE CAN CLARIFY THIS POINT IN TALK WITH

INANITION 6 ON 27 NOVEMBER.

3.

IN ANSVER TO ELMARD QUERIES INANITION & STATED TAP INFO

PROVIDED PY AN UNIDENTIFIED INANITION INSPECT OR, THAT UNKNOWN PARTY

IN CONVERSATION WAS NOT NATIVE FRENCH SPEAKER, PROBABLY NOT A SWISS,

FP. OBAELY A FOREICNER. INANITION 6 PROMISED CHECK WITH INANITION

INSPECT OR AND HAVE TAPE CHECKED FOR POSSIELE FURTHER CLUES TO

201-289248

IDENTITY SPEAKER.

IS COPY

0:200-5-41

SECRET

REFRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

Document Number

118-

---

## Page 2

13-00000

nit. ian a taffit as it: 77948451795)

Pone: + +5947-125887451rd:.r.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECHET

4. APPEARS CLEAR CISSON REFERENCE THROUGHOUT CONVERSATION

IS TO ACTIVITIES OF FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE WRITH WHICH ME

AND OSWALD ASSOCIATED.

SacriCAN NOT IDENTIFY PERSON IN NEW YORK REFERRED TO AS "LY"

(MOPE PROBABLY LEES PHONETIC. POSSIBLE THIS COULD BE

REFERENCE TO LEE OSWALD BUT FROM CONIXT THIS SEEMS UNLIKELY.

6.: CAN NOT IDENTIFY PERSON REFERRED TO AS "TIBOR" (PHONETIC).

%., FROM CONVERSATION CONTENT CAN NOT IDENTIFY OTHER CALLER...

SPECULATIVE COMMENTS BELOW. MAY BE ABLE IDENTIFY OR MAKE BETTER

HYPOTNESIS AFTER TALK WITH INANITIONS RE DETAILS OF PHONE TAP

COVERAGE INCLING WHERE UNKNOWN SPEAKER APPARENTLY LOCATED.

80 CLOSE ASSOCIATE GISSON IS FREDY GILBERT NILS ANDERSON,

BORN: 14- FEBRUARY 33, LAUSANNE, SWEDISH NATIONAL, LAUSANNE RESIDENT,

ED IT OR - PUSLISHER. SEE ATT TO ESBA 12659 FOR FURTHER INFO

INaL COVACTS TO CHICOMS BERN AND PEIPING. POSSIBLE THESE TWO.

MEN WOULD CONVERSE IN FRENCH BUT ENGLISH WOULD BE MORE LIXELY LANGUAGE."

9 POSSIBILITY OTHER CONVERSATION PARTNER IS JACQUES VER GES,

COMMUNIST, FORMER DIRECTOR OF LA-REVOLUTION AFRICÄINE, NOW BASE!

"PARIS, NOTE VERGES CLOSELY ASSOCIATED. WITH CHICOM

..LINE IN FRANCE AND

IN SUISSE, HAS BEEN IN CONTACT WITH SWISS "CHINESE COMMUNIST

SPLINTER PARTY CENTER ED

VEVEY. VERGES, ANDERSON AND GIBSON

ASSOCIATED NEW ISSUE OF MAGAZINE PRINTED IN MONTREUX.

PUEL ICAT ION NOW BEARS TITLE "REVOLUTION, SUBTITLE "AFRICA, =

LATIN AMERICA, ASIA". EDITIONS IN SPANISH, FRENCH,

ENQ ISH.

1?. IN ANSWER ELMARD QUERY INANITION 6 STATED PHONE COVERAGE

OF GIBSON CONTINUES AND PROMISED ARRANGE PASSAGE CONTENT TO STATION

SECKET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

man: aid pair.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE.

SECHENY

IN 68344PAGE 3

AND ODENVY REP ON PRIORITY BASIS. WILL DISCUSS DETAILS AT 27

NOVEMBER MEET.

110 INANITION 6 INDICATED REFERENCE TO LIMIT SET FOR

GIBSON DEPARTURE FROM SUISSE BEFORE 15 DECEMBER 63 REFERS TO

SWISS DECISION NOT TO RENEW HIS RESIDENCE PERMIT BEYOND

THAT CATE. WILL CLARIFY AT 27 NOVEMBER MEET.

!2• KUBARK ONLY: ODENVY REP BERN CAPLING HIS HQS MOST IF NOT ALL

OF INANITION MEMOS REF. IN INTERESTS SPEED STATION OFFERED HANDLE

ANY TRAFFIC KE WISHED ORIGINATE BUT KE PREFERRED HANDLE VIA HIS

PR. EVACY CHANNEL. NOT AWARE WHAT COMMENTS HE MAY MAKE RE CONTENT

OF INANITION REPORT. ESSENCE BUT NOT ALL DETAILS ABOVE INFO GIVEN

TO MIM ORALLY IN DISCUSSION PRIOR TO DISPAICH REF AND THIS CABLE.

HE PRESENT DURING ELMARD PHONE TALK WITH INANITION 6. WILL

CONTINUE FULL COEDINATION WITH HIM RE REF MATTER.

13. KUBARK ONLY: AS HINTED IN INANITION MEMO AND ORALLY

BY INANITION 6 TO ELMARD, INANITION WORRIED RE POSSIBILITY

ODENVY MIGHT FEEL UNDER SUCH PRESSURE RE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

THAT SOMEHOW IT WOULD LEAK INFO RE GIBSON AND OSWALD CONTACT IN

MANNER WHICH WOULD EXPOSE SWISS TAP OF GISSON PHONE AND PASSAGE OF

INFO TO FOREIGN POVER (MEMORIES OF DUROIS AFFAIR REMAIN) • BELIEVE

WE CAN OSTAIN ALL INFO FROM PHONE OR ANY OT HER COVERA GE

OF CIBSON OR ASSOCIATES AND PROBABLY GET ACCESS TO ORIGINAL

TAPES AS LONG AS QUESTIONS OF "COURT RECORDS" OR "EVIDENCE" ARE

SOFT PEDALLED.

14. ANOIHER CABLE FOLLOWS.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: "RE GIBSONS ASSOCIATION WITH "FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE" AND ALSO

WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD.

201-2892448

SECRET

200-5-41

---

