ORDS ACT OF 1992
“"404-10110-10583) [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION REC!

FORM 30200 <
7,71 MFG, 176,

2 REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
al ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED
eased | STEP ECHR |

sovance cory seReweo DONS av RD ar z

PAGE 84 N17 IN 273437
. HT
- TOR! @522452 MAY 77 ARE 33223

SEC aay @522222 MAY 77 STAFF a pp
CITE GAR AC AS) 33923 ip
TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR, fe
NIACT DIRECTOR pf
WNINTEL RYBAT
REF? DIRECTOR g3oi27 %

1. BY TIME REF RECEIVED (1ecg HOURS) AMBASSADOR HAD
GONE HOME FOR THE DAY, (COS EARLIER HAD DISCUSSED LOCA
SUMMARY OF FLEETWOOD ART PCLE IN "ULTIMAS NOTICIAST,
OBVIOUSLY UNTIL FULL TEXT IN VENEZUELAN HANDS AND IF AND
WHEN PRESIDENT PEREZ FOCUSES ON THIS MATTER, VENEZUELAN
REACTION WILL BE UNKNOWN, MINISTER OF INFORMATION AND
TOURISM ASKED AMBASSADOR agoUT CIRCULATION AND IMPORTANCE oF
"NEW TIMES” MAGAZINE= THERE BEING SOME CONFUSION IN -
VENEZUELAN MIND THAT THIS PART OF NEW YORK "TIMES"NEWS PAPER}
AND SEEMED REASSURED BY AMBASSADOR'S REPLY DOWNPLAYING
SIGNIFICANCE OF "NEW TIMES®, AMBASSADOR AT THIS POINT SEES
THREAT ONLY IN CAP'S TENDENCY To ATTRIBUTE ALL UNFAVORABLE
PUBLICITY IN U.S. PRESS To ALLEGED Bree (ne EFFORTS TO
DESTABILIZE GOV. IN THIS CASE CAP’ ALREADY KNOWS EMBASSYP

SECRET

hf


nove nec orseu py. _ roran cories - nun ev
ae i a REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA

: T ISSUING OFFICE Is PROHIBITE
ERSONIUNIT NOTIFIED__* SECRE

DVANCE COPY ISSUEO/SLOTTED
CTION UNIT

ar z

STION &

onz-

T 827187 ELAB75 PAGE 2-02 TW 275437
i TOR! @522452 MAY 77 (Cara? 33023 -

HAD DIRECT CONTACT WITH FLEETWOOD AND THUS HAS CIRCUMSTANTIAL
EVIDENCE TO LEAD HIM TO ASSUME THE WORST. NONETHELESS,
AMBASSADOR 1S HOPEFUL THAT CAP WILL HAVE MANY OTHER THINGS
TO WORRY “ABOUT RIGHT NOW AND THAT THPS ONE WILL PROVE A
NON*STARTER.

2, WILL SHOW TEXT OF REF TO AMBASSADOR FIRST THING
6 MAY AND ADVISE OF ANY FURTHER COMMENTS. AS STATED, READING ON
VENEZUELAN REACTION WILL HAVE TO AWAIT FURTHER 24
DEVELOPMENTS, IF CAP BLOKS, QtHer THAN AND CoS
AND OFFICER'S TENURE HERE, STATIONOPS SHOULD NOT
BE EXPECIALLY AFFECTED. Gest OF OUR EFFORT IS UNELATERALD-
WE PREPARED FOR THIS EVENTUALITY ONCE BEFORE, WE HAVE NOT

RELAXED SINCE, AND WE DO NOT BELIEVE WE WOULD BE BADLY HURT.
3. NO FILE. E¢ IMPDET,

*Ref, attached,
