‘V104-40330-10044)

eee ee eee Pr ob eee SECRET

Occ-95-149
07 DEC 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: JFK Assassination Records Review Board

VIA: Associate Deputy Director for Operations
Associate Deputy Director for Operations/Human
Resources and Programs

FROM: (Eric Lb. Qualkenbushy
Chief, Office of Central Cover

SUBJECT: Proposed CIA Name Release

N
N

1. The Agency strongly objects to the release of names of
individuals presently under cover, whether active employees or
separated employees. As described below, this action would
breach Agency commitments to these individuals who agreed to work
under cover in addition to breaching our obligations to the cover
providers.

2. Employees sign a secrecy agreement (Attachment A) upon
entering on duty with the Agency. This agreement pledges the
employee’s secrecy to information which is classified and has not
been publicly acknowledged by the Agency and requires the
employee to protect such information from unauthorized
disclosure. This secrecy agreement, as long as it. remains: in-;
force by mutual agreement, obliges CIA to protect the identities
of Agency employees, our cover providers and covert activities.

3. Because this secrecy agreement creates a moralas well
as legal bond between the Agency and the employee,
policy to protect the names of former employe
separated under cover unless the Agency and t!
agree to remove the cover. Identifying as CIA
who are mandated byth ver sto

or: fox?
Agency career as well as-into their years after’
- the Agency, jeopardizes: ” ; i

e the personal safety of former employees;

WARNING NOTICE cL (6489932 :
INTELLIGENCE SOURCES CL REASON:.1.5 (c)
OR METHODS INVOLVED DECL ON: Xl

DRV FROM: COV 2-87

SECRET


13-00000
: SECRET

SUBJECT: “Memo to JFK Assassination Records Review Board

e .the second careers of former employees;

¢ the cover and identity of other employees who worked
with the covert employee whose name is released as
CIA; and,

e the protection of sources and methods (what
individual would agree to a clandestine relationship
with American intelligence knowing the secret
association would become public knowledge?) .

4. Examples of. how identifying covert employees as CIA will
affect individuals follows:

° url retired under

cover and is currently working

Revealing his name would damage his relationship
with his current employer, his position with the
firm and would be awkward at best regarding the host
countries. Attachment B is
acknowledgement that he was aware he would be denied
as a CIA employee and Attachment C is his signed
secrecy agreement.

e Attachment D is a signed ackowledgement from Mr.
John Whitten who retired under cover in 1970 which
shows that he was aware that he would be denied as
an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency from
the date he entered on duty through the date of his
departure. Attachment E is a personal letter
received from Mr. Whitten after he was notified that
his name might be released in connection with
declassification of CIA documents. Attachment F is
Mr. Whitten’s signed secrecy agreement. It should
be noted that Mr. Whitten resides; in Austria,

¢ Attachment G is_a Summary of Agency Employment (SAE
written by Mr.i Morton M. Palmer, and approved by the
Agency. Attachment H is a certification by Mr.

‘Palmer /that he will abide by what is contained in

“his SAE and understands disclosure of other
information would be in violation of his secrecy

2

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

“SUBJECT: ° Memo to JFK Assassination Records Review Board

agreement. Attachment I is Mr.(Palmer’s™: ‘s»signed
secrecy agreement. It s' should be noted that Mr.

S. Our relationship with cover providers would be

jeopardized if it became publi were providing
cover to CIA employees.’ The bcould very well
raise objections to our future use of Scover.. Of increasing

importance to the Agency at this time is the critical use of |
private sector (nonof ficial), cover providers. The private sector
would no doubt drop contact and avoid future dealings with us/if
we reveal a covert relationship. Identifying covert .
relationships with cover providers would paralyze Agency
Operations which in turn could severely damage national security.
In addition, in the past it has exposed CIA to legal liabilities
and substantial monetary damages.

6. Headquarters Regulation (HR) 240-1 is the Agency’s
regulation on cover. It states that “cover is required for all _
Agency operations, activities and installations abroad, including
personnel in PCS or TDY status.” HR 240-2, the Agency’s®:” ~
regulation on cover after separation, states that “the ~
determination that an employee will retain all or a part of his
or her cover after separation from the Agency will be based upon
the judgment that separation in an overt status could result i
damage to the national security by compromising intelligence’ ms
sources, methods, activities, and/or information, or cause harm
to foreign relations. This determination will be made on a case-

by-case basis.” (Please note that) eeeetesesasstiie r7

7. Release of £ ‘ormer employees who sep. Xr
cover will make the “entire Agency. cover program vulnerable
detract from our continuing efforts. to enhance cover: and’

Sable consumption;- hi i¢
names of former Agency émployees adds no value to the: d
in addition to risking physical harm to these individual :
our public detractors. We propose and emphatically encourage ~~
that pseudonyms, aliases or generic job descriptions such as desk
officer be used in place of true names which would not diminish
the impact of the documents. -

SECRET


13-00000 |
: SECRET

SUBJECT:. Memo to JFK Assassination Records Review Board

a head
8. After your review and consideration of the above

information, we would appreciate notification of your final

decision prior to taking any action.
ry, scp, VEE if
CM uallabul

<Eric L. Qualkenbush /

Attachments:
As stated above

CONCUR:

& bee ‘95

Date

; are or
YOO : f
’ Associate Deputy Director for Date
Operations

SECRET


13200000"

SECRET

*. SUBJECT: Memo to JFK Assassination Records Review Board

DC/OCC/OSG/EMathias: lae/37076 (6 Dec 95)

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - JFK Assassination Records Review Board

Pee REN

IMS/HRS

DDO Secretariat
DO/IRO

OGC/LD ~ Ginda Ci
occ Chron ~
occ/OSG Chron
Occ/OSG File 785-120-034 ‘

SECRET
