# 104-10186-10071

## Page 1

104-10186-10071

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION REPORT

MINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

10 BARATIR COR LASTA tATOrIALLOA AlAtIAS lEA MALlORAl DENES Ol IDA VAITAA BLAURA MIRLA IDA INARIDA OT LLA DEPOSAGO LARR 1E

I& UBO BrOA

189 NO SOL RDA UAUDETDANIOS DR TAM

COR Ol MANCA LA MY DADDER LA DE UAAUIDOMIIDS DARDOS lA ArADIDIZOS DE L

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEX

COUNTAY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUMECT Aldo RIVERE (Allag "Bromo Seltzer"') DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

CS CI-316/00628-63

10 February 1965

1

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE &

Hashington,

D. C.

DATE ACO. DeCeRDA& 1965

HELD REPORT NO

MIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFIMITIVE ASTRUSAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIV

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer sho served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headguarters Conments

The following report 1s one of a series containing personality.

information proxided by. the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in

the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Aldo RIVERE, alias "Bronöt Seltzer," was a nember of

Departamento de Seguridad del Estado

(Department of State

Security - DSE) in 1959.

Although source has known RIVERE

since 1956 and has not seen him since 1959, he does recall that

RIVERE was sent to

the Soviet Union to study aviation and that

he might now possibly

the Cuban Air Force.

good friend of Norberto HERNANDEZ Cubelo (see CSCI-316/01239-64,

12 October 1964).

a Caucasian,

was born between 1935 and 1940.

- 1s about six leet tall, weighs 150 pounds, and has a side build.!

Headguarters Conments

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

On RIVERE.

A en

SECRET

NO FOREIGS DISSEY

3

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

REP

CINCLAVT

I NAVY

1 AIR

CINCSO

INSA

X*Y

UFSI 2

"Nore: Pield distribution indiroted by "$".)

AINFORMALLO NERERORIS INCORMATIONARERORT

JUECCIADA.I

ZA CLÍBSA

INO PROJECT (ANNEGY1)

WH: SA/CI

_CSCI-316/00629-65

5.

il:

AHITALE

CUONCIMATINO

TOTALAH/SA 8

(1), NE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

61019045

BLS

rk

mEN 80 1

19-5-1

1g0

---

