# 104-10013-10387

## Page 1

1704-10013-10387

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET/RYBAT

WH/COG 67-194

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ADDP

C/CI/R & A (Mr. Rocca)

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

: Garrison and The Kennedy Assassination

: CI/R & A Memorandum Dated 26 April 1967

1. In response to reference memorandum, WH/Cuban Operations

Group has endeavored to provide all available information on

individuals and organizations requested in paragraphs 5, 6 and

7 of reference.

Attachment 1 contains background information

and biographic data on individuals obtained from WH/COG and

IMWAVE f11es.

Attachment & sumnarizes the background informa-

tion and Agency association with the organizations listed in

paragraph 5 of reference:

2. WH/COG will continue to review all material that may.

contain information pertinent to this subject and will forward

such information to CIR & A on a priority basis.

Earl J. Willlamson

AC/WH/COG

Attachment 1

Blo data on individuals

Attachment 2

Background sunnary of FRD, DRE,

INCA

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ATTACHMEN'T 1 TO WH/COG 67-194

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Attachuent 1

Serglo Vicente ARCACHA Smith (Enclosure 2 of reference memorandum)

DPOB: 22 January 1923, Cuba

1. TACOS On ARCACHA do not refloct the date he first

arrived In the U.S. However, he became the FRiNIE REVOLU-

CIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (FRD) delegato in New Orleans prlor

to the Bay of Pigs invasion and continued in that position

until the FAD ceased to function. The IRD was the predecessor

of the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, and vas organized and

The organization was used as a

front for recrultment of Brigade 2506 for the invasion.

During this period ARCACHA reported to the FRD headquafters

in Miamt through a post office box in Coral Gables, and

reportodly maintained extensive relations with the New

Orleans IBI and Innigration officos.

Two of his regular

FBI Contacts NOTe a MI. De Bruce and the deceased Guy

Banister.

2. ARCACHA mas also one of the promoters of the

FRIENDS OF DEMOCRATIC CUBA, INC (FIC) which was incorporated

In New Orleans on 6 January 1961. This organtzation was

ostensibly created by several Ney Orlaana bualness and

polttical figures, including the deceased former FBI agent,

Guy Banister, to collect money to ald Cubans in their

fight against:Communiam, According to the articles of

Incorporation, these donations would also be used to support

the IRD and the funds were to be channeled through ARCACHA,

less a percentage to be retained by the FDC. An Invest1-

gatlon conducted by a reliablo Miami station asset concluded

that the EDC sas organized strictly for the personal gain

of the promoters with the approval and collaboration of

ARCACHA.

The Investigation producad no evidence that any

Individual donations were ever solicited or received and

reconnended that the funds of the Stevedores Unton and the

books of the Ney Orleans Exporters Company bo Investigated

for evidence of personal gain and possible evidence of

federal tas evasion, since both the president of the New

Orleans Exporters Company, GerarB F. Tunague, and the Chief

of New Orleans Stevedores

Union, Alfred Chittendes,

were

officials of the FDC.

Approxinately one nonth after the

FDC was created,

strong cItician from some prominent Cubans

put the organization out of business.

3. Information In an Immigration card reflocts that

ARCACHA travelled to CaraCas, Venezuela at an unspecified

date.

His address In Venezueld was HotEL TLUNA, Caracas,

and his US address was listed as 4523 Dupplesses Street,

New Orleans. Passport No. 00433.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Background information on the FDC and ARCACHA's

connection with the organization was forwarded to the FBI

1n CSCI-9/764, 414, dated 30 March 1961.

Other sourcag of

the above sumary of Information on ARCACHA arO; DBF-86955,

IS JanuAry 1961; DB--99

_11 October 1961; DBF-98355, 18

October 1961: CBCI-316/-3737-65; and UFGA-929, 22 February

---

## Page 5

13-00000

CArLOs BRINGUER (Enclosure 6 of reference menorandum)

Carlos BRINGUER 1s a brother of Juan Felipe BRINGUER

ispogito, & former member of Brigade 2506 who was captured

during the invasion.

The pergonal history statement in

Juan BRINGUER'& 201

11le states his brother Carlos, & lawyer

in Cuba, was 26 years old at the time of Juan's recruitment

1n 1960.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Edward 8. BUTLER (Paragraph Y (A) 0f reference menorandum)

In JAnUAry 1965 SubJeCt's OrganizatIon (INCA), sponsorec

the New OrLeans appearance of duanita cadill shortly altai

her arrival in the Us. INCA had a particular Interest In

MIss CASTRO since they distributed hundreds of tapes contan-

Ing Misa CASTRO'& declarations when she was surfaced ln

Mexico.

A JIVAVE asset, whO 1E HISS CASTRO's business manager,

handled the planning and arrangenents for the New Orleans

visit w1th INCA officials.

The only subsequent contact

between the JiwAvE asset and Edward BUTLER occurred when

BUTLER was recently In Miami pronoting the INCA f1lm on

"CASTRO-HITLER In HAVANA"•

See Attachment 2 for a summary

of the INCA OrganIzatIOn.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

" Albert FOWLER (Paragraph 7(B) Of reference memorandumn)

DPOB: 15 July 1929, New Orleans, Louisiana

1. Subject 1s Alberto Casinir FONLER Perillalt, a

nember of Brigade 2506 who was captured during the invasion

and returned to the US in the December 1962 prisoner

exchange.

FONLER apparently roturned to Cuba with his parents

during his early life and returned to the Us to attend

schot in his late teens.

He attended the Lenox School,

After his graduation fron ISU he returned to Cuba

and narrido largarita taulette van der soiushii, born li

AUgUSt 1933, BrUSSeLS, Belgan. FUlusi was President oi

the Horth American Sugar Company, Havana, from 1951 until

3s 1n Noventa

he returned to the US in November 1960 and enlisted in

Brigade 2506. At the time of his enlistment he gave Mark

FOSTER, Cuban Refugoe. Center White House Representative,

and former US Ambassador W11l1an D. PAULEY, as references.

Following his release frOm prison FOWLIR worked for the

BRAHMS CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, Palm Beach, Florida, where his

lather resides, and fOX BROOKS TRAVEL SERVICES, W. Palm

Beach, Florida, until at least late 1964. He apparently

lost his US eltizenship during his years of residence in

Cuba and immigration records indicate he applled for advance

parola status in November 1964 while he was still enployed

1n N. Palm Beach.

sometime after that date.

FOlLER's nother lives In Coving-

ton, Loulslans, and he has a sister who 1s married to Fort

PIPES, JI., "ember of a prominent New Orleans faully.

---

## Page 8

3-00000

Enilio SANTANA (paragraph l C of reference nemorandan)

DOB: 7 880 x1035, caT stand / Cubt 1037

1. Subject is probably identifiable wIth Inillo SANTANA

Galindo, who was recruited by JAVE in December 1960 as e

guide for an infiltration team.

SANTANA was paid & monthly

salary under provisions of his MOC until he was terminated"

on 15 October 1963 when the ratline developed by the team?

becane inoparable due to occupation of the target area by

Soviet technicians. Another compelling reason for SANTANA?s

termination stenned fron his untruthful reporting concerning

certain aspects of the tean operations.

2. In an attenpt to establish positive identification,

JWAVE obtained a report from the dade County. (Haml)

Sheriff's office that an Emilio SANTANA (no matronymic)

born 6 July 1936 in Cuba, was declared a fugitive frow:

Louisiana on a federal warrant 22 December 1965, FBI Sheet

132287f, based on two counts of burglery in Louistana.

He was arrested and booked by the pade County Sheriff's

office on ? February 1966 and was presumably sent back to

time of his arrest SANTANA gave kis

11v1ng in Mlam.

Headquarters files Indicate SANTANA LE

separated from his wife who apparently still resides at

the old Miami address. Since SANTANA's date of birth varies.

on vartous documents in his 20l file, the varlation in birth

date on his arrest sheet

not conclusive

The fact he

did give his former address to the arresting offleers &

Indicates he 1s Entlio SANTANA Galindo. A 1962 lunigration

form includes a photograph which could be obtained from.

JWAVI for identification purposes if this becomes necessary.

Although JAWAVE has had no contact Ith SANTANA

since his termination, there is a note in Station files

dated 23 June 1964 that SANTANA used the Agency as ble

employer on an auto credit application.

---

## Page 9

13-00000

Carlos QUIROGA (Paragraph T(C) of reference nemorandum)

Subject 1s possibly identifiable with Carlos QUIROGA,

a former student at Lousiana State University who was a

candidate for the Agency Student Recruitment Program.

This

Involved rocruitment of Cuban students in the Us who would

return to Cuba as agents in place. JIVAVE traces reflect

and until the middle of 1961 was an ardent CASTRO supporter

and made anti-us statements.

There 1s no indication that a

Carlos QUIROGA was every employed by the Agency in any

capacity.

---

## Page 10

13-00000

JulIan BUZNEDO (Enclosure 8 of reference nenorandum)

DPOB: 16 February 1910, Havana, Cuba

subject 18 apparently 1dentifiable w1th Jullan BUZNEDO

Castellazos, who arrived In the Us on 10 November 1960 and

enlisted in

Brigade 8506.

He was a clvilian pilot in Cuba

and served on the invasion craft BARBARA J. BUZNEDO "aB

captured and released in thepprisoner exchange.

(There 1a no

Indication he was ever enployed by the Agency, other than

his participation in the Invasion.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

Gordon Duane NOVEN (EnClOsUre 19 of referenco nemorandum)

There is no racord of Subject in WH/Cuban Operation

Group flies or dulavs 11108.

JMWAVE cited the article

on NOVEL which appeared in the MIAMI HEHALD on 26 Apr11

1967, which is avallable In CI/R & A, and 1s In the process

of conducting an exhaustive search for traces on the cover

organizations noVEL clalmed to operate for the Agency 1n

New Orleans.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

There is no record of Subject under either name in WH/COG

Or JIWAVE LIIeB.

---

## Page 13

13-00000

ATTACHMENT 2 TO WH/COG 67-194

---

## Page 14

13-00000

THE INFORMATION COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS, INC. (INCA)

1. INCA is an anti-Connunist propaganda organization

with headquarters In New Orleans, that dissentnates English

and forelgn language propaganda tapes and f1lms an a world-

wide basis, conducts public forums of an extreniat

political nature, etc.

The organizational impetus and funds

apparently come from wealthy New Orleans figures Including

DI. Alton OCHSNER, of the OCHSNER CLINIC, and Willard E.

ROBERTSON. In recent years funds have been supplied by the

SCHICK SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY.

An INCA letterhead listing all

the officers and officials has been requested from JWAVE,

which has had some casual correspondence with the organiza-

tion concerning Miss Juanita CASTRO.

2.

There 1s no indication of any Agency relationship

with INCA prior to January 1905 when INCA sponsored Miss

CASTRO's appearance in New Orleans.

At that time an Agency

asset who functioned as Miss CASTRO's business manager was

Involved with INCA officials in planning the New Orleans

visit where Miss CASTRO was given an award at a dinner

sponsored by INCA. The dinner, which was attended by civic

leaders and representatives of all news media, took place

shortly after Miss CASTRO's defection and there was

considerable interest in her appearance. INCA was particularly

interested since it had distributed hundreds of English

and Spanish language tapes containing her statements when

she was surfaced in Mexico. In October 1966 INCA again

requested that Miss CASTRO

appear as a guest speaker in

major American cities in connection with the release of

the INCA motion picture production "HITLER IN HAVANA".

Following various revlews of the film, JWAVE decided

the

fIlm would probably become controversial and lt toula be

Inadvisable to permit Miss CASTRO to accopt the Invitation.

Because Of INCA's extremist political orientation, JIAVE

has wanted to avoid any nore Involvement between MiEs CASTRO

and INCA and the station asset, in his capacity as business

manager, has managed to prevent this.

There has been only

one casual contact between our asset and Edward BUTLER,

Executive Vice-President of INCA, since Mlag CASTRO'& 1965

New Orleans trip.

This took place recently when BUTLER was

In the area promoting the "HITLER IN HAVANA" 11lm.

According to JMWAVE, INCA officials have never

Indicated in any way that they are aware of Agency control

and direction of Miss CASTRO or her business agent, and there

1s no indication that INCA officials have had any official

contact with Agency officers.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL (DRE)

(STUDENT REVOLUTIONARY DIRECTORATE)

1. The DRE was conceived, created and funded by the

Agency in September 1960 and terminated in December 1966.

It was an outgrowth of the activist student group in Cuba

which fought against BATISTA and later against CASTRO.

Many of the leaders came Into exile around September 1960

and were subsequently trained and infiltratod Into Cuba

by the Agency in late 1960 where they operated by obtain-

Ing Intelligence setting up action teams, etc., up through

the Bay of Pigs Invasion.

While the DRE

was initially set

up as a psych warfare outfit, the organtzation was given a

large amount of paramilitary aid in funds and material.

After the Bay of Pigs, the DRE engaged in Independent

doc 1 1nd

military actions which declined at Agency direction and

because of a reduction in funds from late 1962 until ter--

mination of the group.

Members were used through 1986 as

political action agents, for publishing propaganda which

was sent throughout the

Hemisphere, attending International

student meetings at Agency direction, and producing radio

programs and special propaganda campaigns.

2.

After the cutback in military operations, wany

of the best DRE members relocated in other areas. At

present there are delegations in most latin American coun

tries which have maintained some contact with varlous

Agency stations over the years although the DRE 15 no

longer very active.

During the organization's 6 year

period of active existence DRE personnel were in contact

with several JWAVE staffers and outside contract agents.

However, from January 1965 through December 1966, contact

with DRE personnel was limited to two agents, Juan Manuel

SALVAT, the current DiE Secretary General who is now

operating a bookstore in Miami, Florida, and Fernando

GARCIA Chacon who was relocated in El Salvador.

---

## Page 16

13-00000

FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (FRD)

(CUBAN DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTIONARY FRONT)

I. The ind was created with Agency assistance,

guldance and financial support in May 1960 and consistai

of several antI-CASTRO groups.

The FRD was forned ag a

political action, propaganda and military unit.

InitIal

actions consisted of extensive radio and printed propaganda,

demonstrations, and trips throughout the Henisphere to gain

support for the fight against CASTRO.

The FRD also functioned

as the front organtzation for recruiting the neubers of

the Bay of Pigs invasion force and carried out a massive

program of social assistance to Brigade 2506 memberg in

training camps and their families.

Although the FRD head-

quarters were based in Miami, delegates were assigned to

other areas which included New Orleans, Loulsiana, Tampa,

Florida, and Mexico City, to gather Intelligence and

coordinate Cuban refugee activities.

2.

In late 1960 or early 1961 the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

COUNCIL (CRC) was formed to coordinate and direct FRD

activities and this group was headed by Agency and White

House sponsored ur. Jose lllo cardona, assisted by hanuel

ADE TO PANTRO

ARTIME and DI. Antonio VARONA. Both the IRD and the Cho

continued to function until October 1961 when theIRD was

completely absorbed by the CRC in order to avoid the confusion

resulting from duplication of personnel, activities and

funding.

The CRC also had direct access to President

Kennedy and top Thite House aides. Bacause of the magnitude

of the FRD and CRC operations and

the Agency participation

In the actluities and funding of the groups, a large number

Of JWAVE and Headquarters were directly involved with both

FRD and CRC personnel.

---

