# 104-10185-10141

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10185-10141

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

"'CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

12 ESC

179 and THE, She URATES

COUNTRY CUDA

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

пЕрокт на

(501 316/00270-84

SUBECT Fernando Pascual PEREZ

DATE DISTR

20 JULY 1964

NO. PAGES

DEFERZNGES

RETURN TO CLA

-

Background Uss Ondy

Do Nox Reproduce

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

/aShIDatOn, v.C.

DATE ACQ.

July 1961

MED REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEYALUATED INPORLATION DOUBST ORLAMOS NAS DEFIATIVE AMELISA OR CONTENT US TONTATTIZ

A former Cuban IS officer tho served with the cubes

Intelligence Service Unt11 April 1964.

Headguarters Connents:

1. The following report 18 one of a serles contalalug

personality information provided by the source and

includes supplenental Infornation Iron the recorde

of this Agency.

2.

It 1s requested that the addressees take no action

op any of the individuals mentioned in the

personality reports usthout first checking eith

this Agency.

Pernando Pascual PEREZ, pseudonja "Alejandro, " 18 sn officer

In the Diroccion General de Inteligencia (DGI - Genera)

Directorate of Intelligence) in Cuba.

His address 18

Cle neer 48-353, Santo Suarez, Habana: D15

Headquartery Conment.

1.

The records of this Agency reveal no Identiflable

InformatIon on PEREZ.

3/p1

STAT

I DEA

REP CINCLANT

17to6

NORMATION

NH/SA/MOB:

WE/5/R

NE/MADR

NO FORBIGN DISSEN

I NSA

MANY

NIX

CHARSO # JENS

IFBI 3

PORTE

NORMANEN

ARE

CI/LIA

CI/RiA

RID/AN

BRITISH!

pond

WH/WAVE

TOTALO SH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CI d, RID 1

LX-1597

NO

PROJECT

(AHNOC-1)

ICSC1-316/00270-6

11A1s0ne $

48: L

CI/F

201-None

толи но. 1

OBCOLITY FRETIOUS POITIONA

1809

---

