# 104-10227-10087

## Page 1

104-10227-10087

2022 RELEASE. UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

is..

24 March 1961

MEMOPANDUN FOR TIE RECORD

SUBJECT! Stastias of the sovolutionasy Councll

1. Around noon of 24 March 1901 MI: CarT adviool la relephonically that

ha hail boon lu touch with Miro Caruorn.

Miro inionio to appolst Varons,

Movia, Carrillo, Artina Nal Ray (or PaRos), to tha Cuncla.

2. Miro muntod to bo divided tother Varona an1 Harla vould do acceptablo

to positions du secrotarion of Datenso and Stata (bilro did aut foel atrongly

BA to which of tha tuo got uhich position). To other abevo-contimod in-

alvidurla vould tomporarily not as miniotora vithout portfollo. Even tho

appointmanto to tho positica of state ani Dafenso vould r'it now do announced.

Cart vanted to inow is the foregoiny uns alright with ua.

3. Fuo quostion of the boat sulled cancianto for the position of socrotory

of Defenso sue discussel by Manars. Moel aù Drollor subsequent to Mr Carr'a

tolephone call. It happened that C/in and AC/mill voro at that ront 1n

to offica of the DCI and thus the prodies una raferred to that loval for tha

docision.

Sho tollutus daulbion rulesod to Nestio. lcal and Droller by the

AC/UH/4 sas tranomitted to Mr. Cars at 1030 this datos

8. Mr. Carr arculd try to parsuado Niro to elve Artina the portiollo

of Defanso sacrotarys cari could fira as soasons ¿or cur foellago Artino's

populnity, his youth, hio aullity and readinada to yo into Cuba together

vith tho sasalt forca.

.D. It Miro does not unnt Artime assignod to this position, Carr should

inform Miro that our next perfarence vald be Carlos Heria, our reasons aro

that Varona misht raise nony probloms in view of his vell-toon position

conceralas stilot cuvus contral of troops at thio particulor time.

khasover devolope during this forthcuntay, seotias vith Miro, Mr.

cart should at all timeo be nost flexible and not decond anything.

Mr. Carr vas alno advided to tell Hiro that a would profar only tho maa givon

tho portfallo of Defauso to accampany Miro on his forthconind triy to tho cempo.

Is hoveras alther Houte or Varona voro divan the purtfollo, then va fool elther

ono anculd be accompaniol by Artina for roasons already strtad above.

CUFARD DROLLER

1 Book II

LIKC 05g8n180t100

1 RC Milltary

1 201 f1200

1 H11/4/PA CASORO

---

