# 104-10172-10217

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10172-10217

14.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Palat

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

"PRICE TO FILING

l. riil in Sees. a.

oa back. Detaus back

ilap and feard to RID.

2. Destroy froni cover sheet. unless it

recurus signitloant action caron cr

conceals requiring preservatica.

FROM:

RID/A+

RID/AÑ - 6

(MJ

ROOM

NO.

DATE

i5CyS

POST

TO. ASTRON BRANCH

if file ro:

рторог,

inser: paper tile

15: 305: 33500

below

POPIRATE NO.

TO FiL ADCRESSEES

ze<

COMMENTS

TO EE/i-

tenden ther

SETURNTO

Background Usa Only

Not Reproduce

1•3

Material concerning the (anTiDa

doubts of Añtibes"s bonarides

SR/CI/K.

Raferenco sas artginatod by DC/CI.

ecision requestal ly Squiones:

cannot bs mado lo Sa/CI/I decaus

ajustilos in case unimosm

0.K

to

Tall y

Teletape to Murich

+-EGM.W/3377

TO

.

DC/CI

LC4S

3.

7.

9

10

1T.

12

13.

soja/K/Becky

13.

16

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

ABSTRACT

INDEE

DATE MICROFANCO

FOR FILING

(AELADLE Prorect)

FILE TITLE

jODUMENTONTE

I CODE!

C•22 111/3

Gaus

63124

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

winer,

CHIEF OF STATION

GERMANY

CHIEF OF BASE, FRANKFURT

CHIEF

MUNICH I PAISON BASE

SUBJECT OF REPLE LADLE

SEE BELOW

CLASS MAIICA

SECREI

HUMIT FINCHING

XXX

Cas not M9:0: 16

201-732482

A MEETING ON 27 SEPTEMBER 1963 ALIAS FLEMING NOTEL

SUBJECTES ARREST AND STATED THAT HE AND HISPCATIDEJCOLLEAGUES HAC

WONDERED WHETHER AELADLE HAD PROVIDED THE LEAD. O| HE WENT ON TO

STATE THAT AELADLE'S BONA FIDES WAS STILL A MATTER OF CONJECTURE

REFERENCE GAVE PERMISSION TO INDICATE KNOWLEDGE OF

SUBJECT'S CASE BUT DID NOT SPECIFICALLY STATE THAT WE COULD

REVEAL AELADLE'S ROLE.

PLEASE ADVISE IF WE MAY CONFIRM TO ALIAS

FLEMING THAT AELAGLE WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR SUBJECT'S ARREST.

ROBERT R. SCHRIEVES

APPROVED-

WHITNEY T. NEALE

DISTRIBUTION-

BY

TAPE

2 - C/EE

2

• COS/G

2 - F08

CROSS RESTRINCE TO

_CS COPY

DESAA TON SUMEDE AND NUMGER

EüM1-63124

CAssuricaTioN

SECRET

6976-496/3

В!P:8: s: 818

505 253 33113

DATE

8 OCTOBER 1953

HES FILE MUSABER

[7476-496/3

23:

---

