# 104-10170-10127

## Page 1

104-10170-101271

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIEO

USE

ONLY

C CONFIDENIIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBACE CON

FROMi

Del in

11244009

Dare

TO: :10mim doris

bribed ng)

DATE

ORPICER'S

MATIALS

ston tran

19

Mit soja attached for irranian

•d.aae do crotor de Serita

jour citler laos to licinio

10.

13.

1 в.

.13:

8-ag

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERYAL

USE OHLY.

I UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• SECRET/RYBAT

H1t/COG 67-194

MELORANDUM FOR:

ADDP

:C/CI/R: & A (Mr. Rocca)

SUBJECT

:

Garrison and The Kennedy Assassination

REFERENCE : CI/R & A Memorandum Dated 26 April 1967

l.: In response to referonce memorandum, wi Cuban Operations

Group has endenvored to provide all avniinble information on

individuals and organizations requested in paragraphs 5, 6 and

7 of roference.

Attachment 1 contains background inforzation

and blographic data on: Individuals obtained from fil/COG and

JINAVE files. Attachment 2 summarizes the background informa-

tion and Agency association with the organizations listed in

paragraph 5 of reference..

wH/COG will continue to

review nll material that may

contaln Information pertinent to this subject and will forward

such information to CI/R & A on a priority basis.

Cart tittanson

_AC/WH/COG

Attachment 1

Slo data on individuals

Attachment 2

Background summary of FRD, DRE, INCA

SCRET

---

## Page 3

Attachment 1

Sergio Viconte ARCACHA Saith (Enclosure 2 of referenco memorandum)

DPOB: 22 January 1923, Cuba

1:

Traces on ARCACHA do not reflect the date

he first

arrived in tho U.S. However, he became the FRENTE REVOLU-

CIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (FRD) delegate in New Orleans prior

to th Bay of Pigs invasion and continued in that position

untll the FRD ceased to furction.

The FRD was the predocessor

of the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, and was organized and

supported by the Agency.

The organization was used as a

front for recrultment of Brigado 2506 for the invasion.

During this poriod ARCACHI leported to the FRD headquarters

in Niami through a post office box in Coral Gables, and

reportodly maintained extensivo relations with the New

Orleans FBI and Immigration offices.

Two of his rexular

FBI contacts were a Mr. De Bruce and the deceased Guy

Banistor.

2.

ARCACHA. was also one of the promoters of the

FRIENDS OF DEMOCRATIC CUBA,

INC (FDC) which was incorpornted

in New Orleang on 6 January 1961.

This organization was

ostensibly created by several New Orleans business and

political figures, including the deceased former FBI agont,

Guy Banister, to collect toney to aid Cubans in their

fight against Communism.

According to the articles of

incorporation;

these donations would also be used to support

the FRD and the funds were to be channeled through ARCACHA,

less a percentage to be retained by the FDC.

An investi-

ration conducted by a rcliable Miami Station asset concluded

that the FDC was organized strictly for the personal sain

of the promoters with the approval and collaboration of

ARCACHA.

The investigation produced no evidence that any

individual donations. were ever solicited or received and

recommended that the funds of the Stevedores Union and the

books of the New Orleans Exporters Company be investigated

for evidence of personal gain and possible evidence of

federal tax evasion, since both the president of the New

Orleans Exporters Company, Gerard F.

Tunague, and the Chief

of New Orleans Stevedores Union,

Alfred Chittenden, were

officials

of the FDC.

Approximately one month after the

FDC was created,

strong criticism

from some

prominent Cubang

put the organization out of business.

Information in an inmigration card reflects that

ARCACHA travelled to Caracas,

Venezuela at an unspecified

His address in Venezuela was HOTEL TIUNA, Caracas,

and his US address was listed as 4523 Duplesses Street,

New Orleans.: Passport No. 00133.

---

## Page 4

SEGRET

1.

Background information on the FDC and ARCACHA'&

connection with the organization was

forwarded to the FBI

In CSCL-3/761, 411, dated 30 March 1961. Other sources of

• the above summary of information on ARCACHA aro; DBP-66955,

13 January 1961; DBF-91759,

11 October 1961; DBF-92355, 18

october 1961; CSC1-316/-3737-65; and UFGA-929, 24 February

1961•

SEC:

---

## Page 5

Carlos BRINGUER: (Enclosure 6 of referonce memorandum)

during the invasion. The personal history statement in

JUAN BRINGUER's 201 file states his brother Carlos, a lawyer

Cuba, was 26 years old at the time of Juan's recrultment

in 1960.

SEC:

---

## Page 6

SECEFT

Edward S. BUTLER (Piragraph 7 (A) of roference memorandum)

In January 1965 Subject's organization (INCA); sponsored

the New Orleans appcarance uf Juanita CASTRO shortly alter

her arrival in the US.

INCA had a particular interest in

Miss CASTRO since they distributed hundreds of tapes contan-

ing MIss CASTRO'S

declarations. when sho was-surfaced-in-

Mexico.

A UNWAVE assot, who is Miss CASTRO's business manager,

handled the planning and arrangements for the New Orleans

visit with INCA officlals.

The only subsequent contact

between the JUWAVE assot and Edward BUTLER occurred when

BUTLER was recently in Miänt promoting the

INCA film on

"CASTRO-HITLER In HAVANA"

See

Attachment 2 for a summary

of the INCA organization.

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

Albert FONTER (Paragraph }(B) of reference memorandur)

DPOB: 15 July 1929, New Orleans, Louisiana

Subject is Alberto Casinir FONLER Perillait,

member of Brigade 2506 who was captured during the invasion

and returned to the US in the December 49y2 prisoner

exchange.

FOWLER apparently returned to Cuba with his parents

during his early life and returned to the us to attend

schod in hts late teens.

Lenox,

Massachuse ts, 1948e, Lended the taneSaversity

1949-51.

After his graduation from LSU he returned to Cuba

and mrried Margarita Paulette Van der SCHUEREN, born 13

August

1933, Brussels, Belgum.

HOWLER was President of

the North American Sugar Company, Havana, from 1951 until

he returned to the US in November 1960 and enlisted in

Brigade 2506.

At the time of his enlistment he gave Mark

FOSTER,

Cuban Refuge Center White House Representative,

and former US Ambassador Willian D.

PAULEY,

as references.

Following his release from prison FOWLER worked for the

Florida,

until at least late 1964.

He apparently

lost his

Us citizensbip during his years of residence in

Cuba

and immigration

records indicate he applied for advance

parole status in November 1964 while he nas still employed

in w. Palm Beach.' He apparentls returned to Louisiana

sometime after that date.

FOWLER's nother lives in Coving-

ton,

Louisiana, and he has a sister who is married to Fort.

PIPES, Jr.,.

member of a prominent New Orleans family.

SEN AT

---

## Page 8

SEGRET

Emilio SANTANA (paragraph 7 C of reference memorandum)

ĐPOB:

7 Sept 1935, Cardenas,

Cuba

(also reported 7 Sept

1936 and

Matanzasy Sept 1937

1:

Subject is probably identifiable with Emilio SANTANA

Galindo, who was recruited by JAWAVE In December 1960 as a

guide for an infiltration team.

SANTANA was paid a monthly

salary under provisions of his NOC until he was terminated

on 15 October 1963 when the ratline developed by the team

became inoperable due to occupation of the target area by

Soviet technicians.

Another compelling reason

for santana's

termination stemned from his untruthful reporting concerning

certain aspects of the team operations.

In an sttempt to establish positive Identification,

JNWAVE obtained a report from the Dade County (Hiamt)

Sheriff's office that an Emilio SANTANA (no matronymic)

born 6 July 1936 in Cuba, was declared a Pugitive from

Louisiana on a federal warrant 22 December 1965, FBI Sheet

132287F, based on two counts of burglery in Louisiana.

arrested and booked by the Dade County Sheriff'g

office on 2 February 1966 and was presumably sent back to

Louisiana.

At the time of his arrest SANTANA gave his

address as 851 SW 4th Street, Miami, which is the same

address shown on an old immigration. Erm when he was

living in Miami.

Headquarters files indicate SANTANA is

separated from his wife who apparently still resides at

the old Miami address.

Since SANTANA's date of birth: vartes

on various documents in his 201 file, the variation in birth

date on his arrest sheet is not conclusive.

The fact he

did give his former address to the arresting officers

indicates he is Emilio SANTANA Galindo. A 1962 immigration

form includes a photograph which could

be obtained. from

JMNAVE for identification purposes if this becomes necessary.

Although JAWAVE has had

no contact with SANTANA

termination, there is a note in Station files

23 June 1964 that SANTANA used the Agency as his:

employer on an auto credit application.

---

## Page 9

SEC. ET

Carlos QUIrOGA (Parugraph 7(C) of referonce meniorandu?

Subject Is possiblylidentiftable with Carlos QUIROGA;

a former student at Lous lans State Untvorsity who wäs a

candidate for the Agency Student Recruitment Program: Thla

inrolved recruitment of Cuban students in the us who would

return to Cuba as agents in place. JAWAVE traces reflect

Subject reportedly had homoserual tendencles,

low morals,

and until

the middle of 1961 was an ardent CASTRO supporter

and made anti-US statements. There is no indication that a

Carlos QUIROGA waS

ever

employed by the Agency in any

capacity.

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET

Julian BUZNEDO (Enclosuro 8 of reference nesorandum)

DPOB: 16 Fobruary 1940, Havana, Cuba

Subject is apparently identifiable vith Julian BUZNEDO

Castellanos,

who

arrived in the US on 10 Jovenber 1960 and

enlisted in Brigade 2506.

Ho was a cirilian pilot in Cuba

and served on the invaston craft BARBARA J. BUZNEDO was

captured and released in the prisoner exchange.

There 1s no

indication he was ever omployed by the Agency, other than

his participation

In the Invasion.

SECAET

---

## Page 11

SECRET

Gordon Duane NOVEL (Enclosuro 19 of reference memorindum)

There is no record of Subjoct in i/Cuban Operation

Group files or JUWAVE f1les.

JAWAVE cited the article

On NOVEL which appeared in the MIAMi HERALD on 26 Apr1l

1967,

which is availablo In CIR&A, and is in tho process

of conducting an oxhaustive search for traces on tho cover

organizations NOVEL claimed to operate for the Agency in

New Orleans.

---

## Page 12

4-00000 -

'p!

SECRET

Miguel Silva

TORRES (Enclosure 23 of reference «emorandum)

(also tracud undor Miguel SILVA Torres)

There

is no rocord of Subject under either name in wi/COG

SECRET

---

## Page 13

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARTO ESTUDIASTIL (DRE)

(STUDENT REVOLUTIONRY DIRECTORATE)

Tho DRE was concolved, created and funded by the

Agency In September 1960 and torninated in December 1966.

It was an outgrowth of the activist studont group in Cuba

which fought against BATISTA and later against CASTRO.?

Many Of the Icadors came Into exile around September 1960

and vere subsoquently trained and infiltrated into Cuba:

by the Asency In late 1960 where they opcrated by obtain-

Ink Intollisonco sotting up action teams,

etc., up through

the Bay of Pigs Invasion.

While the DRE was initially set

up as a psych worfare outfit, the orkantzation was given a

larse amount of paramilitary ald in funds and material.

After the Bay of pies, the DRE engaged in independent

military actions, which declined at Agency direction and

because of a roduction in funds

Irom lato.1962 until ter-

mination of the group.

Members were used through 1966 as;

political action agents, for publishing propaganda which

was sent throughout

the Hemisphere,

attending

internat tonal

student meetings at Agency direction, and producing radio

programs and special propaganda campaigns.

After the cutback in military operations, any

of the

best DRE members relocated in other

areas.

present there are delegations in most latin American coun

tries which have maintalned some contact with various

Agency stations over the years although the DRE is no

longer very active.

During the organization's 6 year

period of active existence DRE personnel were in contact

with several JWAVE staffers and outside contract agents.

However, from January 1965 through December 1966, contact

with DRE personnol was limited to two agents, Juan Vanuel

SALVAT, the curront DRE Secretary General who is now

and Fernando

ITTACHNEST 2 70 RH/COG 67-191

---

## Page 14

SEt. 11

THE: INFORMITION COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS, INC. (INCA)

1:

INCA Is an anti-Communist propaganda organization

with headquarters in New Orleans,

that disseminates English

and foreign language propaganda tapes and films on a vorld-

wide basts: conducts public forums of an extremist

political nature,

etc.

The organizational impetus and funds

apparently come from wealthy for Orleans figures including

Dr. Alton OCHSNER, of the OCHSSER CLINIC, and Willard E.

ROBERTSON.

In recent ycars funds have been supplied of the

SCILICK SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY. An INCA letterhead ilsting all

the officers and officials has been requested from JunAvE,

which has had some casual correspondence with the organiza-

tion concerning Miss Juanita CASTRO.

2.

There is no indication of any Agency relationship

with INCA prior to January 1965 when INCA sponsored Miss

CASTRO's apparance in New Orleans.

At that time an Agency

asset who

functioned is Miss CASTRO'S bustness manager) vas

involved with

INCA officials in planning

the New Orleans

visit where Miss CASTRO was given an award at a dinner

sponsored by INCA.

The dinner, which was attended by civic

leaders and representatives of

all news media, took place

shortly

after Niss CASTRO'S defection and there was

considerable interest in her appearance.. INCA was particularly

interested since

it had distributed hundreds of English

and Spanish language tapes containing her statements when

she

was surfaced

in Mexico.

In October 1966 INCA again

requested that Miss CASTRO.

appcar as a guest speaker in

major Ancrican cities in connection with the release of

the INCA motion picture

production

"RITLER IN HAVANA".

Following various revlews of the file, JIWAVE decided the

f1ln would probably become controversial and it would

be

inadvisable to permit Miss

CASTKO to accept the invitation. ›

Because of INCA's

extremist political orientation, JSWAVE

has wanted to

avold any more involvesent between Miss CASTRO

New Orleans

This took place recently

when BUTLER Fis

In the area promoting the "HITLER IN HAVANA" film.

3.

According to JAWAVE, INCA officials have never

indicated in any way that they are anare of Akengy control

and direction of Niss CASTROlor der business agent land there

1s no indication that iNCA officlals have had any official

contact with drency officers.

---

## Page 15

Sie.

FRENTE REVOLUCIOVARIO DEVOCRATICO (FRD)

(CUBAN DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTIONARY FRONT)

Tho FRD was created with Agency

assistance,

guidance and Ilnancial support in May

1960 and consisted

of soveral anti-CASTRO Kroups.

The FRD was formed ag a

political action, propaganda and military unit.

actions consisted of extensive radio and printed propaganda,

demonstrationg,

and trips

throughout the Hemisphere to gain

support for the fight against CASTRO.

The FRD also functloned

as the front orkanization for recruiting the mombers of

the Bay of Plys Invasion force and carried out a missive

program of social assistance to Brigado 2506 members in

training camps and their families.

Although the FRD head-

quarters wore based in Miami, delegates were assigned to

other areas which included New Orleans,

Loulsiana,

and doxico City, to gather Intolligence and

coordinate Cuban refugee

actlvities:

2:

In late 1960 or carly 1961 the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

COUNCIL (CRC)

was

formed to coordinato and direct FRD

actlvities and

this group was headed by Agency and White

House sponsored Dr. Jose MIRO Cardona, assisted by Manuel

ARTINE and Dr. Antonio VARONA.

Both

the FRD and the CRC

continued to function until October 1961 when the FRD was

completely abgorbed by the CRC in order to avoid the confusion

resulting from duplication of personnel, actliitles and

funding.

The CRC also had direct access

to President

Kennedy

and top Thite House aides.

Because of the magnitude

of the FRD and CRC operations and

the Agency partielpation

In the activities and funding of the groups, a laige number

Of JMWAVE and Headquarters were directly involved with both

FRD and CRC personnel.

---

