104-10186-10086]

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Beco 7D and.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

NBR ERORT

coatains information afecting the Hattonal Defense of the Calted Staiee within the meaning of the Emisange Law, The
THA. the Uantmieica OF fereetich of which tn aay manned 10 am Untutborused perwon Us pronibited By lew

COUNTRY Cuba.

SUMECT Paulino LNU, alias "Maliricio" —

Date oF 1964 : \
INFO.

pace g Washington, D. c.: n
Oale AcQ. January 1965

‘REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00536-65

OATE DISTR. § February 1965

NO. PAGES 1
REFERENCES CS-311/00115-64 :
aigeis sea RETURN TO CIA
: Use Only
FIELD REPORT NO. Do Not Reproduce

= THiS 15 UNEVALUATED _IMOSAATION SOURCE “GRADINOS ARE OLNINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE

SOURCE:
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It 4s requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency

i.

Paulino LNU, alias "Mauricio," is an official in the

Departmento [legal (Illegal Department) of the Direccion
General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence ~
OGI). He carries credentials of the Cuban Ministry of
Interior. His salary is $202 per month.

2. Paulino LNU is a Cuban citizen and was born between

1930 and 1935
150 pounds, and has a medium bu:

has ‘inky hair and a large mouth with protruding Lips.

a finger missing on his right h

Rosario, Habana, Cuba.

Headquarters Comment

1.
information on Paulino LNU.

SECR
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ld.

and.

He is five feet eight inches tall,

weighs about

Paulino LNU is a negro and

He has

Paulino LNU is married.
He resides at Calle Primera Entre Tercera y Cuatro, Reparto

ue

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable

Tom, Tamar Trav Tam ___Tnsa

I&NS

[eaves Feld dicwibution indscared by ”

Sate
E REP CINCLANT CINCSO #

Pie Pre eax Tp
UFGA 19083 (16DEt

xO pee Ga

ie

Bene

a
