104-10186-10316) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

mann

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘This material contains taformatina affecting the Natiousl Defenae of the Calted States. witbi meaning of the Keptonege Laws, Tiue
18, USC. Gece, TH and TH the (renelenioa of ferelation-of which In aay quncer to ax UnsuthoriEnd perwon ts prohibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba : REPORT NO. CS -311/02108-64
SuBECE. : Policy Guidance Directives for _OATE DISTR 18 August 1964
Cuban Intelligence Representatives
in Panane as Issued ty the MA NO, PAGES 9

Department (Intelligence) of the
DGI . REFERENCES CS-311/00115-64
: CS-311/00345-64

bed OF 1964 : RETURN TO CIA
pace a : i Background Use Only
QATE ACQ. (June 1964 FIELO REPORT NO. Do Not Reproduce

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFOSMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE

source A former Cuban officer who served with the Cutan Intelligence yy
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The following is a translation of a
lacument which source provided this Agency and concerns the
General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de
Inteligencia - DGI) MA Department's policy guidance directive
‘uban intelligence representatives in Panama. The MA
Department no longer exists, as such, having been divided
into two departments: Illegal Department (Ilegal) and the
National Liberation Department (Lilheracion Nacional - LN).

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION
COUNTRY: PANAMA

IMPERATIVE
1. Collective Action
2. Anti-Guerrilla Schools

3. Position of the Political Parties Toward the als
Revolution

4. Relations with the U.S.A.
5. Cubans in the Yankee Army : =
6. Revolutionary Organizations

7. Movement of Solidarity with Cuba

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM . : st
: ficsai mae]
ery
State To __[aeuy Trav Tai, Trsa, Tax Toce | FRI 2
CINCSO = _18NS

zi ] | LX-1604
- - t XP (AMMUG-1)
2 His Se fifaehad Bagh} ———— 4-1/0
{CI/LS__—s3% (for AF/OSY. acst. ont! FRY DATS — 9 nach \coommaneclas


S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FORELGN DISSES

- ila - CS-311 02108-64

ldgrs Dissem WE/S 1 EE “SLON L
: WE/BC 1 EE BERN 1
WH/COPS 1 WE/R 1 EE/GNVA 1
WH/PO/A 1 EE. ZURL 1
WH/PO/B 1 SR/CI 1 EE/MAMB 1
WH/T 1 SR/CL AK 1
WH/2 13 SR/RR 1 FE DJAK 1
wHl/3 1 SR/O/WH 1 FE/MEDN 1
wH/3/V 1 FE/SURA i
w/a 1 Field Dis FE,"TOKY 1
WH/S 1 : FE/OKIE 1
WH/G 1 WU /MEXE 1 FE/SEOU z
WH/R 1 WH/MNTY ca FE/SAIG 1 9
WH/MRID 1 | FE/KOBE 1
WI/SA/EOB 5 WH/SDOM 1
WH/SA/NOB 5 Wi1/PIBO li SE/COLO 1
WH/SA/R 4 WH/POSN 1. NE/NEWD 1
WH/SA/Tnt a WH/KNGS le NE/EOMB 1
WH/SA/CE 30 WH/PRIN 1 NE/CALC 1
WH/SA/SONS) 1 WH/GORG ar NE/MDRS 1
WH/PACS e Sesaaee NE/KUWA 1
CI/start 5 WH/MANA Ly NE/KAUT 1 |
CI Liaison ne WH/SJOS 1 gy NE/DACC 1;
CI/REA 3 WU/SALY 1 NE/LAMO ea
RID/AN 1 WH/TEGU 1 { | NE/RAWL 1
WH/GUAT 1 | NE/BAGIL 1
AF/L 1 WH/LAPA 1 | NE/BETR 1
AE/2 1 WH/BOGO 1 ( NE/DAMA 1
AF/3 1 WH/QUIT 1 NE/ALEP 1
AF/4 2 WH/GAYA 1 NE/JIDD 1
AF/R 3 WU/LIMA 1 NE/DAIA 1
AE/CI 1 WH/CARA 1 NE/TAIZ 1
- WH/BUEN 1 NE/CAIR 1
EE/K 1 WiT/COBA 1 NE/ALEX 1
FE/SA 1 WH/MONT 1 |
EE/ER 1 WH/ASUN 1 WE/BRUS ee
EE/YA 1 WH/SAGO 1 WE/COPE 1]
FE/H 1 WH/RIOD 1 | WEATELS 2
EE/P 1 WH/CURT 1 | WE/OTTA 1
EE/C 1 WH/BRUL. 1 \ WE/ROME 1
EE/IIS 1 WH/SAOP" rT | WEAMILA 1
: WH/BUTA 1 | WE/HAGU 1
FE/PMI/T 1 WH/BENO 1 WE/OSLO 1
FE/JKO/JO 1 WH/LGRE 1 | WE/LUSB 1
FE/JKO/K 1 WH/RECT 1 WE/MADR 1
FE/VNC/VS 1 | WE/BARC 1
FE/R 4 WH/SA/WAVE | WE/STOC 1
FE/CL 4 WE/LOND 1,
AF/ALGI | WE/PaRY yu:
NE/AA/LES 1 AF/ORNA = a
NE/AA/AP 1 AF/RABA Liaison Dissem
NE/AA/E 1 AF/CASB
NE/AA/L 1 AF/ACCR 1Efcanada
NE/S/P 1 AF/CKRY creme) fo
NE/6/C&T 1 AF/BAKO TEABritismyy! 2
NE/Intel 1 AF/DARE L/WasngbR) yy 2
NE/CI 4 :
EE/VIEN
WE/L 1 EE/SBUR
WE/2 1 EE/CYRU
WE/3 1 EE/ATHE
WE/4 1 EE/KAVA
S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN


9.
10,
ll.

12.
13,
14,
15.

16,
17,
18,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-2- CS-311 702108-64

Canal Zone

Situation of the leftist forces
Repressive bodies within Panama
unist Party

Panamanian co
IMPORTANT
Internal Politieal life of the country
Situation witain the Armed forces

The Church

Functions, characteristics, and data on members of the
foreign service and Diplomatic Corps accredited to the

country.
NECESSARY

The Press

Government structure and organizational functions

Collaborators concerning the national economy.

INTELLIGENCE GUIDANCE AND OBJECTIVES
COUNTRY: PANAMA

IMPERATIVE
COLLECTIVE ACTION

a) Military or political measures adopted in Latin
American anti-Cuban Regional Organizations in
which the Panamanian Government participates.

b) Use of Panamanian territory for Latin American
or Yankee military operations - participating
armies ~ units and their effectives. Date of
operations ~ methods and places of arrival -
exit from Panama - their destination.

c) The use of Panamanian soldier contingents in
operations against Cuba. Units and commanding
officers of units that would participate.

d) Meetings, of a military and political nature,
held in Panama: Agenda, agreements, and plans
worked out at these meetings. Coordination of
activities against Cuba worked out at these
meetings - Panamanian representatives at meetings.

e) Yupics discussed at CDCA meetings. CDCA discusstons
on Cuba. Agreements and plans formulated.

S-F-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DI{SSEM



a : S-E-C-R-E-T
: NO FOREIGN DISSEM

a
5 -~3- CS-311 02108-64

1) Measures taken concerning Cuban travel.

gs) Possibilities sf rupture with Cuba by Latin American
countries that still maintain them@ic),

2. 'ER-INSURGENCY SCHOOLS
+a) Counter-insurgency schools maintained by Yankee
Imperialism in Panama and the Canal Zone -
we especially the Canal Zone.
‘ " * M) Latin Americans attending these courses; duration

of training cycle; name, rank, and nationality.

¢) Counterrevolutionary elements attending anti-
. i 4 guerrilla courses either as instructors or
trainees; name and rank. Army.of current assignment
and the duration of their training cycle.

a) \Nanuals and texts used in counter-insurgency schools.
Special weapons - duration of training cycle.

e) Specialist schocls (i.e. Paratroopers, Froguen) in
Yankee bases. Location of these bases.

£) Elements training at Fort Davis as CIA agents or
specialists in the various Latin police forces.
Name, ,rank,and nationality of trainees and the
duration of their training cycle.

g) Manuals used at the Fort Davis training school,
their techniques and identity of instructors,
Panamanians taking these courses,

3. POSITION OF POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION,

a) Their attitude toward the II Havana Declaration,

b) Their attitude toward Cuban-Soviet relations
affecting Cuba and world peace. :

¢) Their reaction toward accusations that Cuba is a
Communist base for aggression toward Latin America.

4, RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.

a) Alliance for Progress. Peace Corps.
b) Relations with American loan organizations,

¢) American military assistance and the role of the
American military mission.

@) Training of Panamanian military personnel in
American schools.

e) Location of American bases.

f) Special forces schools in Panama.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


; _ S-E~C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-4- CS-311/02108-64

&) Naval Order of Battle - fleet identification =
types of vessels ~- number of vessels - unit
identification.

h) American troop concentrations. Movement observed
within bases. Movement of ships, aircraft, ete. -
Inform whether the build-up during the crisis has
been maintained or reduced.

CUBANS IN YANKEE ARMY.

a) Cuban counterrevolutionaries in Yankee Army bases
in Panama; especially Kotte Base, Fort Gulick, and
Rio Hato- Punta Mala and Mamintoes. Units to which
these mercenaries are assigned - their numbers.
Name and rank of their officers. Length of time
they have veen in the American Army. Date of their
arrival in Panama.

b) Information concerning the arrival of new contingents
of Cuban mercenaries in Yankee bases in Panama -
method of transport and thoir point of departure.

c) Yankee and mercenary troop concentrations carried
out in the Canal Zone and Yankee basés in Panama.
Ostensible reasons for their presence. Maneuvers
in Panama in which Latin American units have participated
and their arrival there. Army involved, units, and
their strength, :

d) Movements of Yankee personnel from the Canal Zone
that would denote special preparations or situations.

COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS,

a) Counterrevolutionary organizations operating in Panama.
Identity of leaders, Their government contacts and
assistance received. Their contacts with other national
sectors - their contact mechanism,

b) Communications between organizations (counterrevolutionary)
in Panama and their headquarters in Miami. Their
contacts in Cuba.

MOVEMENT OF SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA

a) Verify whether the Movement of Solidarity with Cuka has
been formed. How does-it function. Identity of
leaders, etc.

bh) The potential of active manifestations b: progressive >
organizations in favor of solidarity.

CANAL ZONE.

a) The necessity of Canal Zone penetration via press
reports of same,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



lo,

-5- CS-31102108-64

b) Operations data, Entry and Exit control regulations.
Requirements (or movement within the zone. Documentation
required. Internal customs, Regulations concerning
ships and crews while in the canal zone.

A Civil and Military internal ‘administration with details
‘ of its organization and structure, Data on principal

officials.

d) Intolerable economic and political turmoil caused by

\the Canal Zone maritime activities in Panama,

Entry and exit of-canal. Disparity in wages between
North Americans and Latin Americans, Effect of

canal zone commercial establishments on Panamanian
commerce. Attitude of Yankee officers and soldiers
toward Panamanian nationals and their public officials,
Policy of racial discrimination in the Canal Zone,

e) Jamaican negro population and their relations with
Jamaica. |

: £) Mindu population in the Canal Zone and their relations

with British Guia
EFTIST FORCES,

N_OF L

SUTUATI

a) Leftist political organizations - their liaison
arrangements,

b) Student movement: structure, strength, and orientation
of its organizations, The need of collaborators to
provide information on these matters.

c) Workers’ and Peasant organizations: structure,
strength, degree of unity, leaders, work that
they carry on. Imperialist penetration. ORIT.

d) Propaganda media of leftist forces.

e) Repressive measures against Leftist forces.

f) Attitude of leftists toward insurrection,

Leftist attitude toward the Cuban Revolution,

w

h) Effects of the Carihkean crisis on the leftist
forces, and consequences,

i) Periodic and permanent contact with the Left.

J) Information on Leftist reaction toward the
political and economic changes taking place in
Cuba.

FORCES

a) Repressive forces operative in Panama. Their
function, organization, tactics, leaders, and

officers.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM



ll.

b)

ec)

d)

e)

f)

8)

0!

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-6- CS-311/02108-€4

Plans ‘and objectives of internal repression-
Tactics utilized against the Literation Movement
and Solidarity with Cuba. Their objectives in
the struggle against these movements.

‘Agreements in effect now between Panamanian and
Central and Latin American reoressive bodies.

Meetings: held to coordinate repressive measures
within the Zone. ‘Dates, place, and identity of
those attending meetings. Agreemonts reached to

fight against the Liberation and Cuban Solidarity

Movements. Practical measures taken to carry them

“out.

Foreign advisers of. the repressive forces (Yankees).
Name, rank, and role of advisers. Specific cases
4n which these advisers have intervened. "DENI"

activities.

Police regional schools established in Panama
or Canal Zone Instruction offered. Training
cycle. Manuals (obtain copies). Instructors.
Panamanian nationals and other Latin Americans
taking these courses. Name, rank, and nationality.

Central Intelligence Agency. Foreign heads in Panama.
Their name and duties. CIA offices. CIA objectives
in Panama, Their plans to accomplish these plans.
CIA's national net. Their outstanding operatives:
their name, rank, and duties. Their principal
targets. Penetration of CIA net.

Interpol contacts. Coordination with Interpol.
Restrictive measures on Cuban travel, Agents.

MMUNIST PARTY OF PANAMA.

COMMUNIST PARTY OF PANAMA,

a)
b)
c)

d)

Its attitude toward the II Havana Declaration.
Its attitude toward Cuban-Soviet Relations.

Its attitude toward the direction of Cukan
national and international policies.

“Its attitude or position regarding the
International Communist Movement Schism.

1) China-USSR.

2) Albania-USSR.

3) Yugoslavia-China-USSR-Albania . i i
4) Peace Movement.

5) Peaceful Co-existence.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

a
d
:
t
‘
1
‘
\
}



12,

e)
2) Disputes.
f)
With V.A.N,
- 1) Disputes.
mass organizations,
s)
h)
of guerrilla action, —
i) Their work on Solidarity with Cul
J) Propaganda media.
k)
»)
the Communist Party of Pan
IMPORTANT

PANAMA'S INTERN,

a) Bourgeois Political parties, composition, strength,
leaders, biographic data on
internal dissensions, and their

b)

“ed,

d)

e)

f)

S-E-C-R T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-7-

The Party's Internal Situation

1) Strength, leaders (data on leaders),

The Party's relations with other leftist elemerts.

2) Possibilities of Unity. Their work with

Official Agitation policy of the Party.

{ts position as to the unity of the Central
American Parties, regarding the development

Party finances - source of their finances.

Establishment of periodic and permanent contact with

propaganda media,
leaders, programs,

POLITICS.

position concerning the Canal Zone,

Relations of bourgeois political parties with
North American monopolies, with the American
Embassy, Canal authorities, and the church.

Anti-Communist campaigns.
“on Cuba. Leaders.

Relation:

Their posture ~ attacks

Fraternal Secret Organizations,
with the Panamanian Government and the
Yankee" Embassy.

Bourgeois political parties’ relations with Armed

Forces.

Bourgeois politicians who have supported popular,
demonstrations against the Canal Zone. Date on
these politicians.

Thelma King.
and contacts.

Biographic data, past activities,

S-E-C-R-E-T -

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

CS-311/02108-64



13.

14.

15.

S-E-~C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ett deed CS-311 O2108-M

ARMED FORCES INTERNAL SITUATION.

a) Armed Forces:

Structure. corps, equipaent,

strength, corps organization, principal
barracks or camps.

b) Data on military pene and their activities.

c) Coup d'état groups within the Armed Forces.

d) Military relations with other Latin American

countries.

\

e) Ideological indoctrination of the Armed Forces.
Program postures and media.

f£) Data on Panamanian Military figures in international

organizations U,

+, Inter-American’ Defense Board),

military attachés in and from Latin American

countries,

g) Plans for counter-insurgency training.

h) Armed Forces relations with the Church.

THE CHURCH.

a) Ecclesiastical Hierarchy.

b) Position and controversies vetween foreign and
national clergy.

ec) Participation of the Church in internal politics.

ad) The Church's secular organizations (i.e, Catholic

Working Youth),

e) The Church's campaign against Cuta.

f) The Church's penetration of veasants, workers, and.

students.

g) The Church's relations with Canal Zone Authorities.

h) Inter-relationships between plans of the Church and

the U.S.A,

i) The Church's relations with the Panamanian Government.

3) Influence of the Church on education.

FUNCTIONS, CHARACTERISTICS, AND DATA ON MENFERS OF TEE

SERVICE AND THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS ACCREDITED TO THE Cot

a) UN.

b) OAS, Inter-American Defense Board.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



16.

17.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEW

-9- CS-311/02108-64

Panamanian officials in Latin American countries;
Latin American officials in Panama,

Information obtained in diplomatic circles regarding
the internal life. of the country.

7 Dispatching of official documents, seals, signatures,

etc.
NECESSARY i
THE PRESS.
a) ; a on journalists and diffusion media in Panama.
b) Possibilities of using these journalists within “the

country and abroad.

STRUCTURE OF GOVERNMENT AND ORGANIZATIONAL FUNCTIONS.

a)
b)

ce)
a)

e)
t)

Relations botween’the Executive and the Ministries.
The function of Congress, its most outstanding figures.
Relations with the "Yankee" Emtassy, the North
American monopolies, and the canal authorities.

Data on the closest collaborators of R. Chiari.
The Judicial Power. Personalities occupying high
positions. Important laws. Repressive laws.
Relations of the Judicial branch with other
branches of the government.

Other governmental organs - their functions.

The necessity of recruiting collaborators to
gather information on these issues.

SPOTTING OF COLLABORATORS TO INFORM ON THE NATIONAL ECONOMY.

a)
bd)
c)

New economic policy of United Fruit.
North American investments,

Position of Panama regauding Céntral American
economic integration.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

