“"104-10181-10049)

ESIDEN’

ECORDS ACT OF 1992 J
IT JOHN F. KENNEDY. ASSASSINATION RI °

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRI v

, .
‘ 7

EX - 786
5 December 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: "American Defectors to the USSR"

1, The attached material was part of a soft file entitled
“American Defectors to the USSR ", which was set up by SR/6
(Support) around 1960 and maintained by various SR componente
until ca, 1963, The compilations were derived froma variety

of sources, and contain both classified and overt data,
r

2, In the fall of 1966, the files were turned over to CI
Staff, In most instances, basic information was then abstracted
for the US Defector Machine Program, In all instances in which
the material was unique, or represented 2 valuable collation effort,
it has been incorporated into the appropriate 201 file, along with
a copy of this memorandum,

3. It is suggested that any dissemination of this data should
be coordinated with SB Division and with CI Staff {CI/MRO), in
view of the frequently inadequate sourcing and of the fact that
disseminations have already been made through the US Defector

Machine Program, ;
dante
Z

‘LBender
Orig - GI/MRO :
1-RD/FI
1- SB/RMO

1. CURGA[TLBender| 03
1- CUR&A} thr ono

ACl. LF7 F27

SECRET



a el See

y : 2 297827 : :

Probanl reer cment te Si
t before defection he had been very derressed
mole.

is
and had

¥ife re-ented that
lost a lot of non

Leavine «wife a in frankfurt, he crossed
cylum. seasons were pres: xably
y : ed by arrest of
arents recently. ie also hic parents in received soviet it~
izenship sone tine’ that sane month, according to a sly 156] press article.

2 or 3 Arvrust 1860
borcer into sast ven

27 Aust 1860, Revters rerorted interview ith tim on Yoseox TVs usual

eee “* expose OF Us “Spr activities in west Germany, US~issa-uarmonger line, etc. a
Sue type thin” was also out out in ones eelenoc at this sare period,

repteuber 1960, prenber issue of Goloc Hoc if, (newspaper of the xVR
or comb tee ine the Setirn to the Konland) ee ticle supposedly by hin:
his past history am debriefin: on intell mace cuties in Lest Gernany.

is british vife wilt anc their three chileren, who

19 ciovenber 1960,
hed returned to Brgland after nis cefection, sailed fron Lonuon for venice
grad on the LAT\Li to Join aim,

to cons terntion, because :
n to defect.

2 threy hin
hts about his ce

‘ovenber 1
he wos alreacy havin=

© ritish Lnbassy :

Lire
n resettled,

“oceot, Tacfeatliy cF “resence in Lvov,

Scerber 1°70. “life rerorted by letter to te
y hed &

Sly 1961, The Ged- tsone of Visti 2 Ueratny had ¢ article jn the sane
eerie k rit ieeans, his past, *S intel activities, ste. fey cated he had teen
Voviet citizen since avpurt 1960 an! was livin, in ltvov, Mile later resorted
that the authorities hat orovided a tirne-room flats salary over 300 mbles
per month "which was q-ite cood by loci] standatds;" ceened qrite content
with his lot. Ide parents lived wits thes ing ae roirtnent: seven neople |

Asqesr
: Livov authorities ror an

Provety-wmesr 1S€1. che aprlied to "
exit Dre Wy coy wh truce r LAM fe hecelnes Oty, ion. boa
WOW Ot tig Md 0 5g bet pny). EON Dae ® Od ey KE. .
Sarly 1962. Still no action on her exit Fequest, but she afraid appeal
to Brit um tn eenrisals. She called at anutb ra her exe and filled
se yo ik he waa row desperate to veturn to the tin
recardless vf any charges he i-ht have to faces out the;
SER,

. x Spout Mis bein let out, expceially cine he hed ietn
Tais is a bit of a chase fron her loter re: hi his
lot. Mare 62, by. La: : : a :
22 ares 1962, i 2 re
afraid to 10 to TS £
by

: e
wife had been issned Jo.

a leis

Jibs de.

| jo


ee SECRET

nsuip reqvest.

dle one hid been bora in the U., was a
+ passport. received sovict exit-reentyy
and cid not tell then thst she planned not to fetern.

= nite
oe

21 avevst 1962, A Britich Enbassy res
where ne was al¥il oldest child, [here was he
if aidn't accomeny nother to Uncland?) He "hed teen suzjected to fairly fre-
quent qvestionings by the HCE in L'vov since ne visitec the babassy in oscow
a few monthe s-0. An Aneriezn acquaintance who -ms ia a similar vosition
to his own [bctkaniez?) an’ had visited the ancrican tsbase. 3 had been taken

oning bythe ECB Liediately on eaving the briling.™
0

19 Nareh 1963, «iife was interviewed by [iit aRJet Galifax, brgland, where é
living wita rotier. Mistic td interviewer and told aim she
had now deciced ratermzkaxxz it her duty te return to the USSR and felt that
they would let her. itvsband had wired saying he sendine oldest ¢hilo out to
her, but she had wired back saying not to. It was at this interview that she
Said he had seemed content with his lot, aopcarea like job as tr:
translator/librarian at L'vov Polytechnic Institute, anl seened like Living
with his parents,

SECRET

Y9p
