‘"404-10215-10038) [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

| o - |
: i
| :

|
H
Asset. ' i
Youree:  Farn: fron 3 Do
REE ‘torner wi wt iq
vhy sao appro. in
Affaire C a,
| topleyce the sis SW my have been
quite ouccenatul in shipping wedictnew to cuba including anip i
hento to prisoners, in Cubon Jaile.
ser" Gretoe cece
Varna, 5 and 6: GRC on or about 20 septent- i aan i
i {
{ Mant, who is related to : ' i
vho ig a very good friend of@ : 1 i
AIS3 e |
Aloo attached under cover of thin report are the fol lowing . t j
Stens of information of potentinl interest: ‘ i 4
a, Bulletin He, 2 of the National ! Borers : i
an the Fr wndata: fr eee 7s. }

It 4s not receive

Integration, .
It Is believed that Uhis/infornation

Intes tg about Le

tes HAS
Misc. Medical Info,

i
!
> | ained the information because It wan nddyernce (to zB Re

quarters XA & atta.) nw et pee

24



CHOntl-F-1-P. Not-TeT “AL
CONTROLLED DISSEN

-2-

b. “Copy of a Jetter signed by Cmdte
Exeeutive Council of the National Tanite
of the Ministry of Health, dated 6 Jun
Regine BOTTI, President of JUCEPLAN

approval for the expenditure of 3

purchase of raw color film trom C
the national Unive

i

‘i {i1m to be used at
‘\ Cuban scientific. institutior Reces
about d-July from'an unid ified cour

SS E?-

f debriefing ef Antanso TOLELO Zeer 9,
ho was in the third year at the Medd aT Sch
of Habana, Report dated 21 August.

a, “Transiation of a commentary by Virtt

- Aeader of the Cuban medical clags Habana
d 1962, It was subaitted

1 on 26 August, Though this appears to he au

ctamentary there dock not appear to be anyt

y
startling in the information,
7

feus Lon

n

©. Listing of medical and
which vas received thr the
Pouch turned over Lo@agem for duplicat tens
provided tr nslatio

Colegio Teresiano Calle
Addressed to Eduardo ROCO, FO Rox 149:
ree of thig information 4

17 Ho, 1054 Verreo,

4 ROCO.
H |. believed that, the names under thts attact
: . Indexed Yor the Field, Wo indication of ©

- caida D, but belteve they stand
f-:Neutral and C- Communist.

i N=T-1-A-1
) DISSEM

: c-o-n-i
fat cominer
‘ :

nina

in translated fora by

esyplowa
velope had retwen eddress

Yo WAVE trac
ae wet. Rngwty.

for Aq Avtt-Comaunist, <

Rene FAVUMO for the
of Sure
ni-hegaed to

ug an

Asser

(12 829 419) :
pool, University

J1ie PEAIO Nunez,

1B Aucus: psa

dnterest tnt
hing new or

el in Haba

the ROUEN se4”

Habana.

2OL-O022 37

mijn

