# 104-10015-10435

## Page 1

1104-10015-1043!

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

--556=

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO

: DIRECTOR

FROM & CANBERRA

GS COPY

ACTION, C/FE 6 (TEMPO FOR C/CI AND FE SLOTTED AT 2215-27 NOV 63)

DM

INFO I DCI, D/DGI, DDP, ADDP, G/CT, VR

gpfloor

I REVIEW

24 мні 19/6

CLASSIFICATION

CONDUCTED ON

SECRET 2723587

PRIORITY DIR MELB CITE CNBR 8592 RECORDS OPYICER STAN 8 Nay 63 IN 6 9 438

se {ollowing aotion 1s

RABAT KUDESK

authorized: DE SENSLILZE

Hartu

REFS DIR 85859

CNBR 8598 (110 68581)R0.11-0 CI/R+A

Note:

It destruction, oite

reasons and coordinate

1. EMS OFFICER WHO TOOX CALL FROFF INFORMER EN 15 OCT 1962

HAS LISTENED TO TAPE OF 23 NOV 63 CONVERSATION AND STATES HE

ALMOST CERTAIN CALLER WAS SAME PERSON ON BOTH OCCASIONS.

2. CHECKING OF ASIO FILES REVEALS THAT ON 9 AUG 1960

Document Number.

— IMPDET CL BY O/ 2208

APR 1976

for FOlA Review on

AMB SEBALD RECEIVED CALL WHICH MAY WELL HAVE BEEN FROM SAME

INFORMER. EMB REPORT THIS CALL FOLLOWS:

201-287248

"AT 2355 HOURS ON S JUGUST 196D THE MARINE GUARD TELEPHONED

AMB SEBALD TO SAY THAT HE HAD A MAN ON THE CHANCERY LINE WHO

REFUSED TO GIVE HIS NAME

BUT, WISHED SPEAK TO AMS. WHEN THE

SS 00P7

0: 200-5-41

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

GROUPT

Excluded from auromatie

lowngrading and

eclornificatio

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN : 94-3.9 PAGE 2

ALLS TOOK THE CALL THE MAN SAID THAT HE WAS "FROM ACROSS THE

KINGSTON HOTEL"• (SOVIET CHANCERY). HE THEN SAID CLEARLY

THAT THE "TWO MEN YOU ARE LOOKING FOR ARE IN MOSCOW". HE WENT

ON TO SAY THAT HIS BOSS, KURDIUKOV, WAS HAVING SECRET CONFERENCES

IN MOSCOW.

" AMB SEBALD ASKED FOR THE CALLER'S NAME, BUT THE CALLER

REPLIED "I HAVE NOT BEEN HERE LONG AND I DO NOT WISH TO WORK

LONGER IN THIS PLACE• CAN I TELEPHONE YOU SOME TIME?"

" AMB SEBALD REPLIED "YES" IF THE AMB COULD DE OF ANY

le salien.

HELP•:

IT - NUTE

3150021

"THE CALLER ALSO SAID SOMETHING ABOUT COMING TO THE RESI-

DENCE OF THE AMB BUT AMB SEBALD COULD NOT UNDERSTAND WHAT HE WAS

TRYING TO SAY•

"THE AMB AGAIN ASKED THE NAME OF THE CALLER BUT HE REFUSED

AND SAID "THANK YOU VERY MUCH. I WILL CALL YOU SOMETIME.

GOODNIGHT."

"BOTH THE AMB AND THE MARINE GUARD STATED THAT THE

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET IN 694-38PAGE 3

CALLER'S ENGLISH WAS FAIRLY HEAVILY ACCENTED BUT CLEAP.

AND

AUDIBLE."

3. THE "TWO MEN YOU ARE LOOKING FOR" REFERS TO NSA

EMPLOYEES WHO DEFECTED ABOUT THAT TIME.

SECPET

C/S Comments: *Requested details telephone conversation reported in

ALUSNA Canberra Cable CWQ-015 of 24 November, details telephone call

o$ 15 October 62, and plans any ODYOKE (1) or liaison contact with Polish

driver and results such contact.

**Embassy duty officer report on 15 Oct. 62 conversation which was not.

recorded.

CNBR

0592

201-289248

SECRET

---

