“4 t —
[104-10165-10079] 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

CONFIDENTIAL _s
: be) SECRET a
' : (hen Filled In) be

: Zo SOF F

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 Decenber 1974, I have revieved
the 201 file on CHEL (surname) (201 number irdicated below),
and have determined that it can most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

i }
i j .
i Should be closed. (If this category applies, 4
i affix Records Officer stamp.) ae
7 7
lL i
i. Unwitting collaborator. OT Code A7. :
Explanation: : :

Witting collaborator. OI Code Al.

Potential witting collaborator; date opened:
OI Code A2.

OI Code A3.

Potential witti.g collaborator never contacted. OI Code AS.

Counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or bo: u
security service). Of Code AS. :

All others. OI Code A6.

O Yorner witting collaborator (relationship terminated). aes

f
D
Stgnes ZO 7 x Grane! Ed ta
|
i

: SECRET B2 DPDET CL BY 061475
== (When Filled In) Ei

(mane) (title) (component) i
f This assignment of category has been entered into STAR. i |
i sigsel at }
F ~  Caitiaisy iim (date) ! i
Vy "thts document is a permanent part of this file. 201- : bi ZY Y i | ! ‘
iF (ie
a _

s
Sa

of



fecoo00 I i? -

stecgenbinn deta

i
i
q
q
Fe
\
acon TERETE LN IT I RE TT >
3
i ian |
PER DIEM H
Us. $22.00 rer day nore then 2% hours i
9.CO Fer day less 2's hours
\ i
: Havens, Cube From April throug Fovenber-£:f. H
Pron Decenber through Marct-52. i
fA - All cther places in Cute - $15.00 H
: oe
' : 5
i ee . 2
eee i cn mss terernem ~~ cena i
: i
‘| 4
i
i i
bees
i - - ‘ :
cae i
i
, ' &
y
i wh
See : -



i
H
caylee stress

X
hee

ste

NN
,

3
i
I

Bow Yo 17, les Ree
Dear Loot i
1 eqprectste very mch ya conmderytion fm omtins
{ Bm 6 cay of toe senor & ra smport on the cazantst

2s ou GS Came, a ‘sahar of soacies, beth petesto
a we octiniy tembing tovacd es UpcUh
fm the elracmieus ic hin any exouyoce find Caml.
da wuoesiad action 10 equommsvaly tezen, the diffimcitics aa
te tame Seis O28 SS

Sonrtéop Wem you ore down bere oF I am th Bow Fore
yamtupo ve cen discuss further any masters qm feck aro
Festinmt bet witch any uot uae besn covered in the mgcrt

Btzeamiy,

soe Teas 20-166 62

Fe/eafitictecn/eet tnctor yy ;



Mr. Leo Cherne

Executive Director

The Research Institute of America, Inc.
589 Fifth Avenue

New York 17, New York

Dear Leo:

appreciate very much your ccnajderation in sending me a copy
of the Donovan Commission report on the Communist redefection
campaign. The subject is a most important one, worthy of the must
careful study, and I am sure that the’efforts of the International
Rescue Committee will add up to vital contribution toward a solution:
of some of the problems surrounding it.

As you are aware, a number of agencies, both private and
governmental, are actively wor¥ing towa.d an improvement in the
circumstances in which many eécapees iind themeeives, As remedial
Action is aggressively taken, the difficulties the Communists exploit
will be removed.

Ihave read the report/persorally, and, at your convenience,
will welcome farther discussion of any matters you feel are pertinent
but were not covered in the report itself.

Sincerely,

Allen W. Dulles
SO. Director
PP/EA/DSWatson/bcd
Distribution: eee a
Orig k1- Addressee 1 = C/10 : : Clad 6. ye

1-DcL) | 1 CPP

2 - Ex. Reg. 1-RIe™

1-DD/P :

1 = SA/DCI (Mr. Egner)
1 - C/PPC (Aun. Mr. Hand)

-
{

3



onicers
INITIALS,

n= §DEC 1958

6 ala nuteaaietsnnn

ites O10 Enc” (SJ. se

Cl conrinentia, (7) SARIN [) unctassiFien



ia SECRET

. HEHORANDOH FOR: Assistant to tue Directer \e"

vr, frenk He Chapin

Vis Deputy Director (Plans) : i

: ‘SuBJEcts Correspondence of br. lee Cherne : 4
3 with the Freaident etd with the CCl.

1, The at proposed reply to Mr. Cherne ie forvarded :
for tho Director's eignatures i

2. This propesed reply was ccordinated with Hr. Frank Hand
(DDP/77C) whe. vas prosont during tho Tirector's necting with
leo Coarne te thich hr, Cherne refers in his 6 June letters

3e We believe that rr. Cearne'n letter is serely @ fellewcp i
en Bia ecnvereation with the Directors ihe Kesearch Institute j
paver, although of inverest, bas bearing ca peitier the topics
Ttacasced during that meeting nor ihooe eweses in ths ister.

dd kite mecoetenn

Ly ee hare

fe Attachnents As stated

20 June 1956
PP/1CD/ProprsddOR ers +
Distributions

Orig. k 1 = Kr. Ch

; 1-D/P

ele ee + 901-7666
% gps abies. ae SECRET. 7.2.” a aaa
lint aseTennts ana WEL Bast vertanets Of

ete belles? it

gre enirem rene mms tam rman



14-0000

IISTERETIONS: Officer dexigrations should be used i che "TO" column. Usder each correct a fine thou'd be drawn across sheet
tend each comment numtored to correspond with the o-anberin the "TO" ectuma. Each effeer should initia (coach mark insulicead)

before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet shoud be returvat to Register 77g
2 ae

ay SECRET CONFIDENTIAL UNCLASSIFIED
i

Mins 610 Soars
en a etciatinin sinners citaetsiodian



a

ies “ ER 8-301 i
‘ *
1 ?
4 :
i
fir. Leo Chere
Exncutive Director
fhe Besoarch Institute of Amrica, Inc.
589 Fifth Avequs
Bow York 17, Hew York
Dear Leos
2 vas gle to have the opportunity to
7 heer about the. continuing activities of tho
A fal ! anterastiona) Rescue Comaittes:
Be ore interested in ant sppreciste your nee
1 ‘ keeping us inforaed ca the various activities i 4
\ of the 1. ae

PP/Icb/Prop:kvedster:vpp (20 um 56)
Revritten - 0/DC1/JAStav:em (10 Jul 56)
Bevritten + 0/DCI/SSB/mf> (12 dul 56)
Distribution:
Orig - Addo

is
k

be be
aa

é
§



chtcmminlavilamtbeone meee teh

en aie
plaiting a cry ey : 1

ain, NESEEEIEEEES

RoR visa Pe

|
i
wanlen

“co, ao

j
: i

ed



-——~-—$

Me, Leo Chords

Exacctive Director,

The Eessarch Tnstifate ef dm: ries, Ine.
$09 Fitts Aveme <

Bow fork 217, Be ¥.

Bear Loos \
I was glad to have the eppertunity to hear about the continuing
Very wortiuhile activities of the International tesexe Committes.

I nete that in your letter to the shite House you have follosed
through on pressing for further Coacressional attextion to tho
President's proposala for changes in tre basic imnisration laws, ia
our restricted ares of ir“lcence we are also seeking to encourage the
sdaptation of imuigration legislation te reflect the lresident's
Proposals. NA

x

49 we discusced in cur mecting, lhe estter of fond raising io

me which should te pareusd with private foundaticns ad
Sources, while recognising the seny adcitional projects which your
gxeup nisht initiate, persans, as you g.gest, the present emisavers
of tho new nendsre of your Soard could vest. te devcted to sclicitatian
ef private finsnciel support forthe prejesis already underway. fer
the Goverunent's pert, financial eurpert ef ;mvate groupe such as the
T.H.C, 4s contained in the Departaect of State's (6.5, ceeapee Frozren
and the special ectivities of 1Ca and Lilé with ehich you are familiar,
r

\
Jn relation to the plist of the Tegeslev refcgses, JS. Severn
ment participation is, es you knor, placed in the ierartapat of state,
in the U5. (scepes iro,res, and i belicve ‘that theese
would to the best pecole te give you the guidance you seed. Jos can
vest assured that the i.3, covernmmst is texing interest ag appropriate
in tho Iegoslay refugees and toeir wolfare. axe

we SA LS i scr nassenene



SOTUCTORS: Caer ors com shoud be ae!
‘and each comment nsxcere: 1 comemand wt me rumcar in the “T3 =
below furber outing, TA: Fouting and Recrt Sheet mas? be wrirved to Regishy



OGRAFFICAL DAIS
Oinasfeeeestc)
wae: EEHE, Lee

PIR? & Sept 1912
(AUIBESS: 323 Central Fark weet, MC

BFICDEET: Erez. Secty, Research Inst. of America, 292 Madison, KIC
7OL2—--knalyst and ccmmertator for K=tual Broadcasting System

TATA LaTESt Aug 1952

(ae-1(22—*%

c
-¢ cpt +7) naee

43 -~/26-s5
(AF po FR)

Are 6-43

yee — 2- AF USB

_fuct, 20

re Ri cory I~ Weber

oo



- CEEEME, Leo 25 May 1954

B.I. Document 100-122-6 reflects a omy of 8 telegrem to
Secretary of Stste Dean AC=SCE from the Executive Secretary,
dnericans for Intellectual Froedon dated 2 March 2549 requesting
‘thst am ewer-cncy visa be crarted and trip to the U.S. exrecited
for Patel LYSHIG, oxtetanding Rrasian scientist who kes fled
Firlhy aly till recaoy i The AIF desires that LISicK0 address

freedo raliy as thetr guest on % Merch 1949, among the
Stinere of the talegran 1s ome Leo G2s35,

A necorantm in the exw 2.2. Docurant dated 1 april 1949
diocleses that GC began ccardinating vith the State Lepartnent
in an attempt to effect LIN0i's admittance to this country.

2.1, Docent 43-120-5 is a memoranda: to record dated
25 Saquary 1952 reflecting th=t CPC ani &-Contecte effected the
use of Subjcet's services, through his position with the Research
Enstitmte of Azerica, to backston.the cover story of a proposed
egent in trairing.

Bo adiitiona! pertinert data.

Bere Meese

hewn aig mula Oi

i
1
i
j
4
j

ce



an
satis us:
YAAZ £9926
12 May 1955
PPC
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Far East Divis!
SUBJECT: O Memorandum from Leo,
a ths Victnam Siteaticn
1. Yeu may be interes ‘ed in the attached memorandum
by Leo Charnes as it would seam to me it accords vith your
views. : 1
2. I would alee like to say that my case officer en
Opersiion Brotserhood project reports that be is being
gtven the most friendly kind of cooperation by your peeple
working en that project, which is appreciated.
t ent #ayER,
i
i CORD MEYER, Jr. .
: eamanicy Ter ya. dienes
I-C1L6GK |
Attackment: (1) & }
ale runty ON ed
CHO:CMe 235! a AA g
| oo  Bistribetion: * eal (fEK, ce
Addressce - Orig & 1 ;
| | XOD- lee
RI- lee
i
1
i
& rs natu pos oe ae an na tate: ad
be oJ


FBI REPORT

DATE: 26 APRIL 1956

CLASSIPICATICN: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: JULIA LOPEZ CHERNE,
AKA: MRS LEO CHERNE

FBI FILE #: 105-16531 (NEW YORK)



FSI REPORT
DATE: 2 APRIL 1956
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: JULIA -OPEZ CHERNE
INTERNAL SECURITY - R
FBI FILE #: 100-66819 (BUREAC)

