104-10128-10117|

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

he

SECRET
+ SECURITY INFORMATION

CLEARANCE REQUEST
oate 23 duly 195k

To : Chief, Special Security Division, I&SO Coordination has been.effected.

FROM : Chief, Staff C/SPB The Operational Clearance

dated 12 April,'S} will be cancelled when CSC

SUBJECT: NO._xx JG-8142 is granted.

if 0696
1. Character of Case: oc CSC ___200 PROJ.
2. CIA indices check required in advance--------------------------- Yes--No-2-

3. Project name: Not _cited

4, Proposed country of assignment: ____As_ stated in attached Memo, __

5. Contemplated type of contract or
employment agreement (see C.F.R. 14.1) See attached.

6. Scope and nature of use or activity: See attached.

7. Subject's cover:

8. Present whereabouts and occupation of Subject:

9. Suggested guide of I&S investigation: U.S. Govt. :, Commercial
Other:

10. Special coverage desired in investigation:

ll. Limitation, if any, on investigation:

12. Subject aware of Agency interest--------------- nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nm Yes--No---

13. Subject aware of pending investigation-------------------------~' ‘Yes--No---

14. Subject briefed on "cover" story to be used in investigation----Yes--No---

15. Probable investigative contacts informed of “cover"story subject will use:
Yes----No----. If not, state reason.

16. Return attached PRQ Part I- Biog. Data----with results
of your action. Already of record.

17. Certification having been made by the Chief of the interested Division that
operational files and documents contain no pertinent information of an in-
vestigative or security nature other than that furnished to Staff C/SPB,
such information forwarded to your office----~------------------ ‘Yes--No---

1s. Remarks: STC/SPB (has) (has not) been advised if Green List initiated

TNITIALS.

dla Th Reports attached.

7/2
ORM 10, of RETURN TO C cia, pene be E pebs EGE ww ac

orp ‘a

‘
