# 104-10192-10014

## Page 1

104-10192-10014

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

79.300-70

NOẸX O YES NO

CLASSITY TO PILEN

-CLASSIFIED MESSAG

MEG 1OS

ROUTING

SECRET

FROM

JAVAVER

PILE NIO D

RET TO BRANN =

DESTROY O

5IG

ACTION: IW

RID COPY (COPY TUBED TO: ES DO AT 1875 - DD)

DCI, D/DCI,

EX DIR, DOP, CS/RF

INFO.

VR.

FILE;

ADOP..

CA 2.

CA PEG, CA/PROP.

a/C 2,

Fl.: F1/D .

CS/D0, 500 4,SV0"2

C1, CI/PS, DO/H 4, HPS 3, N$ 8, WH/C 12 FI/SPG, RI/AN

SECRE

71921172

IG. NOV 55 2225Z IN 98559

DIG INFO @ZE I IT BARR CITE WAVE 7369 INITIRST ACTINO AE

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: NO FAQUECT.

ANOF-128, REPORT Nº 57/65, 18 NOVEMBER

1965. COMMENT PARA I BASED. ON UFG 7735; PARA 2 ON UFG 7737

(POUCH): RI INDEX JIMENEZ. FILED 192117E

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM

CUBA

SUBJ: PLANS FOR AMIDS ON CUSA EY COMANILS L AND. INSURRECTIONAL

MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTICNAPY RECOVER (MIRA)

DOI: 18 NOVENUER 1965 PDA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI

(19 NOVEMBER 1965)

UF$ 7738

SOURCE: A. CUSAN WELL KNOWN IN THE MIAMI EMIGRE COMMUNITY WHO

HIS INTERATICS SHIPPING INTERESTS. SOURCE'S REPORTING ON i

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

I COMMENT,

D14-6-954

1019 - 9-4/1

WH, REE

Ranoved fron

Subsciorie

CS Classification: 14-300-20:

: 108 8 66-604152

Box: 15501d92

19-300-20

:121

8

TDCS DB-315/03784-65

-JEROFILMES

RELEASING I WELC

HUCH A ME DEVI

03

DATE DISTRIBUTED

H0 INCOMER POSS

-0042 Z

x | ROUTINE:

BASED ON: UFG

7738

N.P. (AMOT/120)

LIAISON: *

'EXCLUDIO FROM AUTOMATI

DOWHORADINO ANO

DECLASBIVICATION

PRICRITY

SECR.T.

REFRODUCTION. BY. OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Capy Na

7020

---

## Page 2

14-00000

INDIA DYIS O NO .

CLASSIFY TO PILE NO -

X REI TO PILE NO -

FROM:

ACTION:

NO.

VR.

CLASSIFLED MESSAGE

FILE DID

DESTROY O

SECRET

RET 1O BRANCH O

3I0

IX RID COPY :

FILE, ADDP, CAZ, CA PEG, CA/PROP:

+55 1 03

ROUTING

is i

PAGE 2 IN 98559

MARITIME ACTIVITIES IN THE CARIBBCAN HAS BEEN.

1 TIMELY ANE RELIABLE.

AS OF AECUT JUNE 1965 HIS REPORTING ON OTHER TOPICS HIS IMPROVED

IN DEPTH AND SIGNIFICANCE.

IN COMMENT:

DES.

TROTTNE

BASED ON

PRIORITY

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

RELEASING I WO

LIAISON

SECREL

REPRODUCTIS

BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PRI STED.

Copy Na!

---

## Page 3

14-00000

¡ass 3000

SECKEl

SECRET

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE Of

iNfa

18 NOVEMBER 1965.

HO FOREIGH DISSEM CONTXUALD OISSEM

CENTRAL INTELLIOENCE "ADENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

• ROUTINE.

TDCs 08-315103784-65

DISTR 19 NOVEMBER 1965

— SUBJECT

PLANS FOR RAIDS ON CUEA BY EMIGRE ELEMENTS

DATE ACO UNITED STATES, MIAMI (19 NOVEMBER 1965)

REF

IN 98559

SOURCE

AND

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG 7738

AFPRAISAL A CUBAN WELL KNOWN IN THE MIG: EMIGRE COMMUNITY WHO HAS INTERNAT: ONAL

SHIPPING INTERESTS. SOURCE'S PETERTING ON MARITIME ACTIVITIES IN THE

CARIBBEAN HAS BEEN TIMELY AND FELIABLE. AS OF ABOUT JUNE 1965 MIS

REPORTING ON OTHER TOPICS HES I:PROVED IN DEPTH AND SIGNIFICANCE

1. ON 18 NOVEMBER 1965 THE PUERTO RICO GRANCH OF COMANDOS L

WAS PLANNING TO STAGE A RAID CIS CUBA SIMILAR TO THAT WHICH TOOK

PLACE 14 NOVEMBER. (FIELD COMMENT. THE MIAMI HERALD REPORTED

THAT COMANDOS L, CUBAN REPRESELITATION IN EXILE, AND THE FRANK PAIS

NOVEMENT CLAIMED CREDIT FOR THE RAID ON THE COAST OF HAVANA ON 14

NOVEMBER.): A 57MM CANNON WILL BE USED IN THE PLANNED RAID. (FIELD

CONMENT. A RECENT REPORT FROS AN INDEPENDENT SOURCE REPORTED

THAT THE COMANDOS L PLAN TO COITINUE RAIDING CUBAN TARGETS AT

THE RATE OF ONE EACH WEEK.)

his material contains informalian affecting the Nalines! Defense of the Lnited Slates within the meaning: of the Espionag

lams Title 18, U.SC. Socs. 793 and 791, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner lo an unauthorized person l

prishitired by law.

GHOUT I

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED OISS:4

lncluded too ae

dovingrading

STATEILNE

DIA

ARMYJACSI NAVE AIR IS SECDES ASA NIC AID USA: OCI ONE OCE ORE

MANACG FBIL

LENS, TREASIE!.

COAST GUARD, CUSTOMS; BORDER PATROL

EXO

---

## Page 4

14-00000

NTO RA (NO)

NO FOREIGN DISSEN COX, ROET BASTE IN

TOES TO 15: 03784-65PAGE

SECRET

2.-2173112.

VOLICIONARIA MIRA; INSURRECTIONAL MCLEVENT FOR

REVOLLTIONARY RECOVERY.)E IS PLANNINS AN ATTACK ON CLEA MMICH WILL

TAKE PLACE IN THE NEAR FUTURE. ACOLFO MENEZ AGUILER RIO EZEN

21• 37/101

ASKEC TO PARTICIPATE IN THE OPERATION. FIELD COMMENT. MURR'S

RECENT PLANS FOR ACTION HAVE SEEN FOR ATTACKS ON SHIPS INVOLVED IN

THE CUBAN TRADE. HOWEVER, A RECENT REPORT

FROM AN INDEFENDENT

SOLRCE: REPORTED THAT ON 15 NOVENEER WHEN BOSCH DISCUSSED THE 14

NOVENGER RAID, HE CONVENTED THAT THIS IS A FAYORABLE TINE FOR

COMMANDO-TYPE ACTION AGAINST CUEA.)

3. FIELD CISSENS CINCSO, CINELANT, CEMKIESTFOR, MINNI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, LINS, CUSTOMS, FORDER PATROL, USCG.

DOI 18 NOT 6511

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

