# 104-10181-10034

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10181-10034

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

EVALUATON SHEE.

Background Usa Ony

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

HEPONI NO

ORR

90 3 47358

20 Mirch 1952

VALUE

EVALUATION OF CONTENT

CONSIDERABLE VALUE

CUNFIRMED BY OTHER SOURCES

OF VALUE

PROBABLY TRUE

SLIGHT VALUE ONLY

3

POSSIBLY TRUE

NO VALUE

E

DOUSTRUi

ALREADY SUFFICIENTLY KNOWN

5

PROBABLY FALSE M?;!

NO DATA PERM,TTING ASSESSMENT

CANNOT BE JUDGED

NOTE:

IF

FURTHER INFORMATION IS

DESIRED

ON THE

CONTENTS OF

FURTHER INVESTIGATION ARE SUGGESTED BY THIS REPORT

THIS REPORT. OR IF SUBJECTS FOR

PLEASE INDICATE.

YOU ARE REQUESTED TO MAKE YOUR COMMENTS AS COMPLETE AND DEFINITE AS POSSIBLE.

FOR OUR GUIDANCE

COMMENTS: (PLEASE TYPE OR PRINT!

Tho saformation la thie roport board lenificantly on various a specta of oxport

controls enforced in Hestora Geruany. Current attempts of varlous soviot bloo vous

trios, notably Bastora Gormany and Crochoslovakia, to increaso exports to the Host to

obtain dollar sarnings and to encourago bartor transactions aro sall brom. The faot

that fest Gorman nonoy la boing used for the finanolaz of a scheme suah as roportod

boroin would appear to be i probles for HICO authorities. It is noted, however, that

Ja para. 1 the schome 16 said to bo "Slamood with Mostora Corala money" milo lá

para, 5, De. Solbt is quoted as sayinz that "ho assumos that the orploto diroatory,

Inoluding the Hestora German odition, was printed in Bartorn dormany with Bastern

vorman soney used to pay for the expansas iavolrod."

SIGNATURE

Tue MaNO

James A. Grant

TOiVISION

DEPARTMENTS OR AGENCIE

5 bay 1962

WUL PETUAN INS SHEE TO THEIR PROPER CIA LIMEON OFFICER.

70-10 UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTED (CONFIDENTIAL)

SECRET

---

