G MESSAGE

‘a

TrodYea't8Si004i] [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

or-seoq

oe HH

race OF paces

“at
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY !

soe cor ace 0s we ory ver

B Q a it) a a a

] 2
SECRET SH ~
atseentanecnareraroa pe ees cm eessaaccenmarioasse
STAFF ry . 4023532 DIRECTOR 651765
CONF: INFO: FILE i ica
Y-> PB, DDo}Po, ote D senor
) D erat PER Q)
EYES OLY OS Waker’ Gals
HS SO wens 3
: Connon INFO CHE HAGUE) Gandy (é
3-6 o-¥ 2)
RYBAT @LMABLANKET ¥ i i .
REF? (LONDON) 72367 IIN FOb4EEIY
20-1

1. FOLLOWING ARE H@S TRACES ON WILLEM LEONARD OL TMANS

{201-155221}. {SUBJECT}. DPOB: 10 JUNE 25. HUIZEN. NETHERLANDS.

OLTMANS IS b'L" TALL-¥
yz:

2. ASE THANS STUDIED AT YALE IN 15950 AND WAS EXPELLED FOR MIS-
BEHAVIOR. FOR A SHORT TIME HE WORKED FOR U.P. AND "DE TELEGRAAF” A
DUTCH NEUSPAPER« HOWEVER, HE WAS FIRED FROM BOTH- IN 192856 OR 5?
HE MARRIED AN AMERICAN GROUND STEWARDESS. IN 31560 HE DIVORCED HER
AND IN NOV b1 WAS LIVING WITH A FILIPINO MALE. OLTMANS WAS ADMITTED

EMOFYE
TO THE U.S. IN NEW ‘YORK CITY AS A PERMAWENT RESIDENT ON 10 JUNE S8.¥
MUMEROVS FIELD REPORES sv dICRTE TAT A

3. AIN 19Sb SUBJECT ARRANGED AN INTRODUCTION FOR HIMSELF TO
PRESIDENT SUKARNO- HE THEN TRAVELED WITH SUKARNO DURING THE PRESI-
DENT'S TRIP THRU EUROPE IN 1956 AS THE PRESIDENT'S GUEST. SUuBU'S
TRIP FROM INDONESIA TO THE US IN FEB S? WAS PAID BY THE INDONESIAN
GOVT. INDICATIONS ARE THAT SUBJ WAS BEING USED AS A TOOL*BY THE

INDONESIAN GOVT TO CARRY ON PROPAGANDA IN THE US AND AT THE un. #

a
mrurasina Ome CooRDWATING OFF:cERs. AUTHENCATING GER!

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA!! THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED £ 2 IMPOET



f
H

ae OUTGOING MESSAGE it eer ie 4
: (a | Ceeao be |
eee SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY el iol sl
. ace cor scr t0@ we uno ot vact or” pacts
oMF oO o Q a Q oO G E 2
SECRET
MEESAGE HANOLING INDICATOR pave-rime nour cme Mesanon nerantnce mumoen ;
STAFF . DIRECTOR
: OD moex DISSEM BY:
CONF: INFO: FILE - ee
Estes O nevunsro PER
O wmes  #
TSUBLS-UIFE-SATD ~THAT DURING TRETR-MARRT OF ESSUKARNO
SFONCE AEE KS
Ps cet ppg mE te

4. awe MAR L9b0 SUBJ DESCRIBED HIMSELF AS ANTI-COMMUNIST. / HE
STATED HIS VIEWS ARE AT BEST THOSE OF A GREAT ADMIRER OF COMMUNISN
AND WHAT THE COMMUNIST SYSTEM REPRESENTS. HE WAS DESCRIBED AS
HAVING EXCELLENT CONTACTS WITH ALL THE COMMUNIST-DOMINATED COUNTRIES,

ud FYL
INCLUDING CUBA.4 i

5. on Geb Ge Suave miMOdhieD HE INTENDED TO TAKE LEGAL
ACTION AGAINST DUTCH FOREIGN MINISTER Jd. M- Ae He LUN S. SUBJ
ALLEGED THAT HE HAD BEEN REFUSED “ON INSTRUCTIONS FROM LUNS" A
DECLARATION BY THE DUTCH EMBASSY IN WASHINGTON, D-C- THAT HE WAS A
BONA FIDE JOURNALIST WORKING FOR BONA FIDE NEWSPAPERS~- AN EARLY
1972 Eeccees stare OLTMANS WAS ATTEMPTING TO HAVE THE GOVT PRO-
SECUTE LUNS FOR "LYING AND MISLEADING THE GOVERNMENT" ON INDONESIA
DURING HIS TENURE AS FOREIGN MINISTER. THE 349 AND 20 JAN 72 ISSUES
OF DUTCH PAPER "DE TELEGRAAF™ CARRY ARTICLES EXPOSING ACTIVITIES
SUBJ WHO ENGAGED IN DENIGRATION CAMPAIGN AGAINST LUNS- STORIES

ACCUSE SOVIETS OF COLLUSION WITH SUBJ AND OF INTERFERENCE IN DUTCH

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

: i - 2
meLeAsina oFmceR COORDIKAtNG OMMCE RS aunrarncarncs OFmcER
teeuearon REPROC IGN BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING.OFFICE IS BHIBITED «ogg



13-00000
“ UUIGU

: gia {oj
: we ae apo
. ace cot ace roo tee uso eer pace OF paces
OnF a it} is} Go Q Q o 7 3
cusssinicanion
SECRET
MESSAGE NANDUNG INDICATOR pave-tuee ancur om MESSAGE RUFERENCE NUMBER
STAFF : DIRECTOR
: : DO moex DISSEM BY:
CONF: INFO: FILE an a DO no mome
sl 769 OD neromro PER
OD wrnes #

INTERNAL AFFAIRS- ny
b- IN 1963 SUBJECT WAS A JOURNALIST AT THE UN CONNECTED WITH AN

OBSCURE DUTCH NEWSPAPER. THE OTHER JOURNALISTS CLAIMED TO NEVER

HAVE SEEN ANYTHING OF SUBU'S IN PRINT. WHILE AT THE UN OLTMANS

APPLIED FOR NENBERSHIP IN THE UN CORRESPONDENCE ASSOCIATION. | HOU-

EVER. HE COULD NOT PRODUCE A SINGLE CLIPPING TO DEMONSTRATE HIS
JOURNALISTIC ACTIVITIES. DURING THIS TINE. SUBJ GAVE LECTURES,
EARNING ABOUT $b000 PER SEASON. ON INTERNATIONAL POLITICS. TOUCHING
ON ASIA IN GENERAL AND INDONESIA SPECIFICALLY. HE CLAIMS TO HAVE
GROWN UP IN INDONESIA AND THEREFORE KNOUS THE CONDITIONS THERE-¥

A Yrroet SuBIGCT
2. IN Novby DESCRIBED, AS "OUTSPOKEN ANTI-AMERICAN
rae

OUTSPOKEN. PRO-INDONESTAN, AND PERSONBA NON-GRATA WITH THE DUTCH."

&. IN APRIL 3967 SUBJ CLAIMED TO HAVE SOLD AN ARTICLE TO
"RAMPARTS" MAGAZINE ABOUT THE CIA IN INDONESIA. HOWEVER. THE ARTICLE
WAS NEVER PRINTED-4

3. IN FEB 68. SUBJECT INTERVIEWED JIM GARRISON ON DUTCH TV ABOUT

THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION.¥ see ve
€PoaT sve yecr -

10. IN FEB 7? Stismmey DESCRIBED ,AS AN EMOTIONALLY DISTURBED
DATE: zy
ORIG:
UNIT: :
EXT: f

neumasine erricen coonamarina ormezns Aureimcaria ormcen

scaanauasieaanaiasis REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE SSSUING OFFICE iS PROHIBITED E 2 Ait

3m oe * PRE Rey


canis UUIGOING MESSAGE 3) cli z H
onF 9 oO it] i) Q 0 G 4 4
SECRET
Uwesssoe nanoune moiearon oare-tiws amour ee susonce naranence mene
STAFF . DIRECTOR

cou ics ene O mons DISSEM BY:
ae Ono mon :
Syl ILS O merumto PER
O wees #

PUBLICITY SEEKER WHO DOESN'T SEEM TO CARE WHAT TYPE PUBLICITY HE
RECEIVES.¥

LL. IN 72 OLTMANS. WAS PLANNING TO MAKE A FILM IN THE USSR ON
STR VIC.
Seite LAIMED SUBJ HAD A
S-YR RETAINER. FROM SOVIETS AS OVERT - AN. {NO INDICATION IN FILE
IF FILM EVER MADE-}4¥

FOR THE FILM. AT THIS TINEs

ECOLOGY. HE VISITED THE USSR 23-2b JAN ea MAKE FINAL ARRANGEMENTS

le~ SUBUJ'S TRAVEL? 19Sb - MET AND ACCOMPANIED PRESIDENT SUKARNO
ON EUROPEAN TRIP- DEC Sb . VESTED INDONESIA. FEB S? - USA. 15960 -
CONGO. U9b1 - EL GERMANY. CZECHSLOVAKIA, POLAND. HUNGARY. 1962 -
CUBA. JAN 72 - USSR- FEB-MAR 72 - USA. MAR 72 - USSR.Y

WITH EXCERTIEW PARAS A AWOY
23. NO.LATER INFORMATION IN THE FILE. ABOVE HAY BE GISTED FOR

Gacilyy

Mu. FILE! 73-b/4b/3. £2 IMPDET-2 3
b&/pdo: 23
AC/CI/0G :
. °
EA/PIA aii 23
EUR/BNL/N. i
bs)
DATE: =& MAY 7b 2 ————— °3 °s
_ aa
wnt: T7096 (edhe 93 ‘
a wv 4 EUR/ED,
Ue
Cy sf) to c
Se RELEABING OFFICER COORZINATING OF ae
fear a ela REPROD WON BY OTHER THAN THE NGS OFFICE IS. AHIBITED E

ely
