# 104-10052-10119

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10052-10119

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JNELASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

COMFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Oplional)

FROM:

John blo Waitten

TO:

(Oficer designation, room numbor, and

building)

EXTENSION

5613

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

c/CI

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

302903

NO.

DATE

13 Dec. 1963 len di

COMMENTS (Number

each comment to

show from whom

to whom.

Draw o line across column aftor each commont.)

Attacaed for youx Information,

soment,.and contactlon 2o the

osadrals. unespurgated.varsion ed

the seport on GPYLOOR pavering

OBHALD'S atay 11 LicO and Iz

Sluding susaras of the telepres

Intercenta. This say Da U29502 40

the rasè 61 tha material and to tha

people preparing the 815a1 report.

In Writing this 49, I have sailo

certato cemosto and inintzes 1n *

costals arount es 1ualya1e, bacause

tha naked facts Beamed to call Is

1to

Isase thougata sto uy ditto

Jeel tra to nase you on analysis

Is you bare say cosrectiona do to

Dhaate volto then en tali drait and

natura it to see I will retura tbe

drait to j021 17 104 trt 1to

' i::

This reyert was wiltten 10r Intorad

used outsied the Agenor.

2.

C/15/3

14.

5-62.

SECRET

[ CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

03453

---

## Page 2

14-00000

We Discover IDe OSHAID in Mexico CIty

CIA did produce ace very significant piece of Inforustion on Lee

OSVAID before hs shot President Kennedy. On 1 October 1963, our lexico

City Station Intercented a telephone call Les OSWALD Made iroy someplaco

In Mexico City to the soviot labassy there, usiny his on rose. specking

broken Russlan and using bia true nore, WAID was talkin, to the Fribassy

guara, OBYADKOY, who alten ansters the phone. OsHALD said be bad visited

¿ne Embassy the previous Saturday (28 Zeptender 1953) and spoken to &

consul waoso name he had forgotten, and who hun promiaed to send a telo-

sran for him to lashinston. He wasted to know 1f there were "anythin

neH." The guard sald Il the consul vas dart it was (valeriy Vladalrovica)

KOSTIXOY. Ine guard checked with samone else ard said that the bessejo

had zone out but no answer had been received. He then hung up.

Ibis plece of Information was produced from a telephone tep center

unich we operate Jointly with the office of the President of lexico. It

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Is highiy secrot, aud not known to vexican security and law enforcerat

officials, who have their own centor. Our joint center produces ireat

masses of telephone intercepts which are transeribed and reviered by our

sall staff in lexico Cliy. By 9 October, the OSWALD telephone conversa-

tion of 1 October had been transcolbed and a sumary of it cables to

Hashington. The nano les OSHALD meant sothlag special ta our lexico

City Station, but in their report they did judge him to be an Americar

rala.

Tue cabled roport was received in Hashington on 9 October and checised

In our filos, where it was imediataly noted that the lee OSAID pboning

the soviet Encassy In Hezdeo City was probably the lee OSHAID who bad

defected to tha Soviet Union In 1959 and retured to the USA Ia 1962. On

10 October 1963, the day after tie report from Mexico City, CIA Headquarters

sent out a cabled report about lee OSlAID's phone call to the sorlat

Imbassy; the report vent to the I'3I, the Depertueni of State (because

OSHALD was a US citizen), and to the lavy Departsent (because he was a

former larine.) The cabled report to these agencius bishlighted the

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

I1klihood that the lee OsWAli mentioneù was probably tas former defector.

A copy of this same cable was dellvered by hard to the Immiiration aca

Naturalization Service, with which me hare no cable link. The sane day

a long cable went out to lexied City Inforidng our Statlos of the back

SONIa 0S defector LEe OSWAID al astInI fOr DOTO Infortion, Our Station

was instructed to pass its information on the phase call to the lexico

CIty Oiflees of the FAI, the Enbassy, the laval Attache, and the Inlara-

tion ard Hatralization Service. Mols was done.

In 14a 071310al repart of 9 October, lexico City heù sata 1t had a

photojasà of as epparent American sale leaving the soviet jabassy on

1 October 1963, the day OSHAID phone there.

A very sensitive operation

In lexico City provlies us with secretly taises photographa al nany but not

all Vialtors to the sorlet subassy there, taken with telephoto lenses.

Accordinsty, se cabled the lary Depertient on 24 October 1963 baking for

= photosraph of Lua OSALD frou hla larine Corpa daya so we coula comparo

photos. He had not received this photoyraph by 22 Movesber 1963, but In

any evast, it turned out that the nan photos

raphed outsido tho sovlot

3

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SEGIST

sabassy was not OSHALD anyray. As chance would hava it, sone of our

several photo obsesation points in lexico Clty had ever taxen an 1danüt-

Flable picture of Lee OSHALD.

Our sexico City Station very often produces infornation 11ke thla

on US citizens contacting Sarlet bloc excassies in lexico City. Frequently

¿he Inioration ve set is extrevely Inoriurating, and on one or tua

occrains ve have even been able to apprebend and raturn to taa lisA

Americon military personel sho are attemptias to defecto In all suea

cases, our Readguarters desk requests ard obtains the special permission or

the Deputy Director for Plans to pass the derojatory Information on a us

citizen to other ¿overment agencies. Derogatory Intomation o1 Avericar:

13 not treated routicely; in each case the DDP Or his Auststanè persorally

scrutiz1ze the inforation, wake sure it is credible, aud decide whether and

to whon It 111l bo passed. Only In absoluto energercies 1s the Mexico Clty

Station authorized to pass such Information aircotly to the FBI OffIce In

the U.B. Embassy.

At this writing (13 Decenber 1963) ve do not know what actlon the Fat

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

2287E0

and other agencias may have taken based on our report. We surmise that the

IDI nay have made local checks through Mexican euthoritios to see li

Lee OSHALD wea actually 1n Merleo City On 1 October. Indeed, later It-

vestisation has confirmed all the detaila of his trip, where he stayed,

ara vhat lo dià. To avoid crossius lines with the FBi, our lexico Station

uniertoo's no local investlaation of Its ONA. NO Ne DON INON, OSHALD 10ft

Mexico on 3 Octobes and was no lower thers when our report was put out..

•Since this relapbone tap operation 1s a joint one with the bodica

Fresidency, the Mexicans also had the 1 October Intercent on lee OStiALD,

but 1t apparently slunbered in their files until the ascausization took

placo.

22 Homeriber 1963

When word of the shooting of Frasident Kennedy resched the offices

of out operating aivisions anl stalin on the alternoon of illazy 22 lover-

ber 1963, tranaistor radion vere turned on everybere to follow the

trazedy. Heen the have 0f lee OShAll was beard, the effect was electric.

A phone nessage fren the Fal cane at about the base tie, reming OBHALiO

---

## Page 7

14-00000

as the possibla assassin and asling for traces.

The nassase tad passed

on at

once. by the Chief CI, Id. Angloton, to No. Blrch 0 Heal of his

Special Investigations Unit. Mrs. Batty Egeter of this loit tediatoly

rocojaised the nave of lee OSlAID and vent Ior his Pila, At the unme

time, las. Bastos al tha ledeo Dest, who had written our first report on

OSWALD on 10 October recoynizad the nema iron jadio reports and vent

atter the sane file. sir. Reichharät, lexico Dest Chiel, who was bota on

leave, heard the news aod phoned In a reninder that so had sonething on

OSWALL, While ve vere preparing a cable to dexico city anding then for

more Inforustion on OSVALD, Vexico CIty Itself heara OSVALD's name on the

Voice of America broadcast and cabled to us a resinier of the infursation

the sitation had sent in on hia.

For the next veet, a dozen people in the Agency vere continuously

anjajed in bundling incontas sesenjor on the case, writing reparte to be

cabled out, tracing the namea nentloned, and researching files. Within a

weeks, 27 cabled reports had sone out to the Walte House, tha State Depart-

ment, and the TBt. Hony cables al quidanco and laguiry had boen sent to

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

our ovarseas stations, and lany pieces of informacion on OSkAID and bla

wife had been received back.

The Vexico CIty Station resenrched Its

telephone taps very thoroughly and cane up vita several nore conversations

probably involving O3YAID, but not actually bentioning this nane; these

connected hin also to tao Cucan Consulata in derico City. several Vexicans

vere arrested and questioned about his activitles, string a cool picture

di what ho was really up to. Many conferences were held vita the raI

Liaison bificor lso askad us for certela actions and passed la information

iron the Fat investization. On the ninas side, a host of fabricators,

cose anonyuors, bombaried overseas enbassies uith spudous tips on the case,

Bost of which to Investizaton. All of these are soon discredited, but they

are still coaing 10.

Durins this phase of our work, ve served primarily ln support of tha

Fit, which was entrusted by the frealdent with the bajor responsibility fou

the Irrestlantion. Me JaI was too busy to supply us wita much of its

ora lioration, but answera vere given to specific questions we posed to

assist our Investlation. Tae Departuent of State did photogrash Its entire

---

## Page 9

14-00000

file on DoNAlD and pass thea to us, end the int save us a copy of tie

Soriat Consular Iile on OSHALD Which had been publicly glyen by the soviet

Ambassador to the Secretary of State. On Friday 6 Docenber 1963, Deputy

Attorney Geboral Katzerbach invited us to revier the FaI's corprehensive

report on the case to mate sure ou sources vere not jeoparitzed soù that

Our IntornatIon tas correctly quoted.. Ne lourd the resort higaly

Interesting and no threat to our security, as long as it vas read only

by the authörized investigative bodles.

Aiter the first few days, the CIA Investigation of the case vas

handled at leadquarters by a shall stuf? usually charged vith investigation

and analyats of the nost important security cases, and by a few officers

and analysts of our Hesteri Fendsphere D1r13100.

Beports kro Pestico

As soon as our vexico City Station realized that Lea OSHAID tas tbe

prive suspect, 1t began re-sereniny all the written telephore transcripte

In 1t3 files corering the Soriet inbasay for the pertinent period. Ine

actual tapes were alas rovered, but zany of then had been erased siter the

---

## Page 10

14-00000

normal to reeks vait. several calls believed to involve Canaus were

discovered and tasir contents cabled to lashinston, where they very

dissentsated to the Unite house, the state Depertent, the Federal

Bureau of Inveat25at10n.

(SHALD's nase vas not actually sentioned la tisese additional calls,

but bindlarity of speech anil varlous plats pointa oi contest lini ther

¿o hin. Iase calls ars sumartzed below 1n chronological arter.

They cover the penlod fron 21 Seyteaber 1963 to 3 October 1963, the uhole

SPAS Of OSWALD*s VIsit to Mexico ilty as later learned fros travel records.

31 sentember - A man phones the soviet Mlitary Attache asl

says he needs i visa to so to odessa. Maa anstering says ha shoila call

15-60-55 and ask for the Consul. Caller abiss far the addrent, and 1t 18

siven to his, (There 18 no special reason for linking this call to OSHALD.)

37 September, 4:05 BY - The Cuban Consulate phozed the Sortet

Consulate. Silvia Duran, Nexican nattoral clort of the Cuban Consulato

talked to a soviot afficial, sayini that a vale Anerican clitizen was at the

Cuban Consulate asking for a transit visa to puss through cuba on his way

---

## Page 11

14-00000

to the sorlet linian. she wants to kron to von be talked in the Soviat

Consulate and was told hin he would have no probley about 1t. II & soviet

vIsa 13 assured, the Cuban Consulate can stant him a tanalt visa, and

simply notty Cuban Imigration authorities. The soviet first asts ber

to wait, and then she bas to explain the whole thine over sain to another

soviet offictal, tho takes her telephone numbes and proaires to call ter

back. Silvia DUsAl concluses this call by telling the lovtet she bersele

has bored and givas her now addresa in the loviet tabassy bulletin. le

asies her to phose (ferzay Benenovich) KUXEARNKO (second secrotary uho pito

out the Balletia) to give bia the ven sidress and he abdu who tha caban

Cultural Attache 13. BIIVLa DUFAI gives the Attache'B nare as Teresa

PRagizA and adla ber telepbone mraber.

37 September, 4:25 PM - A Forlet afficial calla StIvia DUBAIN

bacis end tells her that the "Aserican" hed been to see the Forlot's ona :

shem tbem a letter fron the Soviet Consulate 1n Fasblaton Intoating that

he bad been salting for toas for linell and his vite to do to the soviet

Union for a lons time, but that no answer had cone irca lashington, addina

SEGRET

10

---

## Page 12

14-00000

that the valt was suretina four or fivo montins.

The "American" haa

shown the Soviets a letter showing to vas a nember of an orzanization in

favos of cuba and hai clalied that the Cubans could not sive hin a visa

Vithout a Bussian Tie. Silvis DURAi rojoins that they save the sere

problen; the "American" 1s still at the Consulates they cannot tire bia a

¿ramalù visa unless be 13 assured ol a soviet visa, even thousa be just

wanto to do to Caba to linit tibera for bis sortot visa to he rautedo le

does noù koor anyone in Cube, They exa the conversation on this sote.

SLIVIa DURAI says that the vill note this on his "cara," and the Soviet

coccludes by saying, "Besides be is not know." Es exeres hinself' for the

Inconvendence he has caused aod silvia DURAN Bays 1t 15 311 Iliat-

38 September - S1Ivia DURAN calle the sorlet Imbessy Fies the

Cuban Conaulate. She says thet ste kna the Averican with her agals. The

soriot anovertos asico her to valt. When another soriet tekes up the phone,

silvia puts the American 011. The Averican tres to talk Russian to the

Soviet uno ensters in Engliah.

the serican ses him to speak Russian, lue

Anerlean says that he had been is the sovlat mabassy and apoken sita tbe

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SEGIRL:

Consul, and that they had taken his aldress. the soviet roplies that he

knows that. Ile Anerican thea says, souvhat enlyuatloally: "I did not

Inow It then. I went to the Cuban Subassy to ask them fox vy zidress

because they have it." the sorlet lavites bla to aton by agaio and give

then the eddress, and the Aserican astres to do so. (In this conversation,

the merican was speakins haraly recognizable fussian.)

As far as 025 records shod, OsWAlD ald not phone the soviet or Caban

Eabass1es ajain until Tuesday 1 October 1953. The intervening days puro a

Sunday and a bostay. Tro contents of his later calls seen to show. he

did not contact the sorlets on those daya.

2 October, 10:31 AM - A van callo the Sovlet Mlitary Attacie 1a

broken Russian and says he had beez at thoir place the previous saturday

(28 septenter) and talked to their Consul, They had sala they vould send

a taleiten to Washtraton, and ho vanted to knos 1i there were anythin, nor.

The soviets ast hin to call another phore number and sires him 15-60-55, say-

laz to ast for a Consul.

1 Cetaber 10:45 An - (Inis in the phoce call in which OStALo

SECRET

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SLORET

used his time name and whick maa thereforo cabled to Hashinston on 9

October 1253.) I00 DEVALID called the Sovlet Imbassy and amounced his

own see, saying he had vialted then the previous saturday ard solar

ustà a Consul. Tey had sala they vould sere a telagras to lashington,

and he maated to locow if there vers anythiny nett. le did not resentex

the save of the consul. Te sorlet, who was inbassy Ekard OBIRDKOY

replied: "XOSIUOY; he 1a dark." OSAID replied: "Yes, ny rene to

OSWALD. " Ino soviet excused hinsel? for a ninute and then salà they

hadn't received anything got. OSVALD asked if they hadn't done anythin

and the guara replied they had sext a roguest but that nothing bad been

received as yet." ONNAID started to say: "And what...

but tas sorset

hung vy.

3 October 1963 - A man speaking broken Spenisa at firat and ther

Engilsh prosed the Loviet M1lltay Attache and asiced about a visa. Ite

Attache's office referred hin to the consulate, siving the rumber 15-60-55.

The caller wrote 1t down. 'Ine attache official suraged off another

SEGRET

13

---

## Page 15

14-00000

question about unether the caller could set a visa, and the conversation

ended. (Were 15 no special reason to tie this In with OSWALD, tha 15 nON

known to have ro antered the U3 at Laredo the sass day.)

since the eparation througà thic ve tap the soviet Eubassy phones

In taxico City 19 manajed jolatly with tho offico of the Fresident of

blescico, the taforation on lea OHAIl also case to the attention of

Prostaent I0PBZ, Hateds after 22 lorenber, Tue next dat, 23 Hoverber, be.

called 1t to the attention Di our Chier of Statton, uho was already

parking feverishly on the case.

Stallarly, the lexicans noticed the

involrement al Cuban Conoular employee Silvia DUrail, a dexican setlocal,

Our Station suitested that the be arrested aud interrogates about ostAID.

The Hezlean authorities hed the same idea and sha and her bunband vera

arrested on 23 Ilovenber 1963, 1n the uldst of a party at their kone.

A11

the questa vere soon released but silvia and her husiand vere questioned

and released on 25 November 1963.

311v12'3 buskand, Horaclo DURAN Ravarro, an tadustrial designer,

said inter police Interrogation that when OSWALD was raved as the assassin

---

## Page 16

14-00000

"" •

D? Iresident Kennear, his vile had recognized the rame unù recalled she

bad walted on OSHAID when ho case to apply for a Cuban transit visa,

he renenbered sbe had sald she dealt u1th the Soviet Consulate as well

to find out rootber ho had a loviot visa. HOraciO DURAl recallad his wita

had satd OSKALD DecaDe enty end she had to call out the cuban Conani,

Erasebio AzclE, to gulat his.

S12vIa DilAy told the sare story. She was a leftist sympathize with

Buba and had torkod for the Meatcan-tuben Instituto of Caltural Fyiations.

She recalled OSHAID well, described bin accuratoly, related how ha han

wanted a Cuban visa but could not get one without the assurance of a soriot

vied, and remanbered his tiff with tse consul. She adultted ase hed phoned

the sortet Eucasay about hita.

To sur total ol the statements ol silvia DURAN and bar husband vas.

to contim that OSHALD vas in Mexico to set s Cuban visa so ha could valt

In Cuba for his Soviet Vlos. Tho Soviet Consular 11la passed to the State

Departnent In hashington by the Soviet Babasay confiras a Lony exchange

between first, Mrs. Harina OSAID, and later her husbasa, and the soriet

---

## Page 17

14-00000

Consulate in Washington about thalr requests for pernission to retur to

¿ha soviet Union. OSWAID ves still writing to the Sorista 1n Hashington

about this as late as 9 lovencer 1963.

SIlVia DURAN was arrestad saain on 27 lovenber and held ustll 29

Hovenber. She told essentially the sane story over again.

Well places sources withia the Cuban Enbassy In Herdoo City stated

that then Silva DURAl vas released fion pollos arrest the fIrst tia on

25 Horencer; she vas quito pleased with hersell. She told ber collongues

the sare story set out above, aiding only that the dextens polloo bad

abreatened to extrailts bar to the United States to contront lee Barrey

OSWALD. The reaction withly the cuban imbassy to the rens al Fresleent

Kemady's deati vas acabre. To date, there 1a sol credible loloration in

CIA filos thica vould appear to 11nt Los OSWALD ith the Cuban government

or the Cubas Istelligence service.

The shole quention of whether Leo OSWALD had any secret comection

with the sovlets or Cubans in lexico canzot jet to answered, but cortala

parts al the evidence inalcate to the contrasy. Silvia DURI and the

/5.

---

## Page 18

14-00000

Spriet Consular offlelalo sposa of him as a ma wita "no iriends in Cuba"

on the ons hand, and as s han not "knowa" in lue Soviet Tabasay, on the

other. Ice very opensass of his visita ad the phone calla spent against on

secret role. Ils trio ta leadco vas not Itseli a secrot set; he travaled

under h1a real nase or à close varlant of it, Lived openly la Sexora

borals, and corrasponded nith the lovieta through the open 1a1i5 about

It then ho got tack to the ls. lia triy to bescico sas apparently made

necessary berause it bas the rearest cuba diplorati installatior taaro

he conla apply for a vlaa.

A pezplexis aspect of OSWAlD's trafilcidas wità the Cubans and

-Sovlots In lexico City 15 bla assertion In his call of 29 Septeaber that he

did not know his address when be ves at the Soviot Consulato and casa to

the Cuban Consulate because they bad 1t. It 18 bard to explain just wat

he went, but it should be renabered that he was talting In Rassion, #

Lanzuaço bo could not sanajo, as that veen ie cane to lexico he vas in the

process si moving from lew tricans to lexas. He way not have nanarizea

his new sadress ta Texts, whatever 1t was, and way not have been ablo to

SECHET

---

## Page 19

14-00000

288047

Isy hands on it when ho was in the soviet Consulate thai day. Perhapa

ho had carliar sivan tha address to SIlvis DUrAl and wanted to lock It

up on ber card.

A particularly sinister aspect of OSNALD's dealinge with the soviots

1n Mexico C1iy arises fron the Ililthood that he not vità Sortet Consul

Valeriy Madinärarich KOsITKOY, In his 1 October phone call to tho

Soriot Inbeasy, the guard OBaDDY susgests that the Consul OSVALD had

talked to sas KOBIIOT If ha tas dark. OSWALD seeny to agree vits this,

but the identlilcation la very casual. In his 9 November letter to the

Soviet Consulate in Washington, OSWALD Eives the nase of the nan he doilt

wit'a sa "KOSITi," but there 1s no person of that exact nass in the Soulet

Entassy in lexico City, KOSITIOY in accroilted as a CoRsular Attache and

does actually do a lot at consular vert, but ba 1s belloved to be a

Sorlet KGB officer, and it 1s belloved thet he works for Department 13 ai

the KGB, the Departsent charged with sabotage and assassinations.

the

suspicion that KOSTIKOY 10 a kGa odficer arose fion his vork habits, and

his association with other KGB officers. It ves hardened when it vas

483707

17

---

## Page 20

14-00000

found that ha handled a soviet ajont uno vas trained to do sabotajo

workt and that he turned this agent over to another KG3 OffIcer to 15

definitely known to vorks for the 13th Department. It l8 generally trie

In KEs vort that saborago asents aro handled only by 13 Departent

officers.

FUbaSSy BURTS ITRa ITANOVICH OBEDROT 1J binselL bellered ta be a

KGB san Iron previous assignents as a bolyzuara and suralllant. But

unloss sose dtrect evidence of soriet couplicity 1s aiscovered, It 18

most lIkely that OSWAID's RealiNg With KGB Men OBIDNOT and KOSTIKOY WAS

nothiny soro then s grin coinclience, a coincidence due in part to the

Soriot habit of placing Intellizence ven 1a the Sabassles In positiono

Where they receire a large partion of the visltors and phone calls. All

of tha five consular officers in the soviet Embassy are knows or suspected.

Intellizence officers. Certainly If OSHAID sad been & joulot avent la

tratning for as assassination asslicent or even for sabotaze vort, the

soriots would have stopped his iron milng open visits and phone calls to

the sortet Embasay 1n Bexleo after he tiled it a couple of times. Our

15

---

## Page 21

14-00000

experience in lexico, studylas th Soviet Intelligence

service at close

range, Indicates that they do nake sone mistakes and are soseidoes tasecure.

In their nethods, but that they do not persist in such glaring errors.

Sove 1n01gat on the Cuben attitudo tovara the arrest of Silvia DUHA

and the imolvement of the Cuban Consulato In tho OSHALD case car be

saised iren tro intarcapted phone calls nado betseen Cucra resident

Osvaldo DORTICOS and Cuban Ambassador to Mexico Jouguta HERNAIUBE Arras 01

26 lorenber 1963, the day after siIvIa DURAT was released tron ber firat

arresto At 09:40 All that norniris President DORTICOS phoned the Ambassador

11'01 lavana and asked hia reveral questions about a report thica tha

Ambassador had sent in on the arrest of Silvia DURAi and the Lee OJHALD

case. The whole conversation is consistent with the theory that OSNAID

MErely tarted a visa. Te Anbassador did mention the altercation unica

OSWALD had vith Consul AZCUS, and he tays that ledcan police bruised

SIlVIa DURAN's ansa a littlo shaking her to impress her viti the importarce

of their questions. Tiey had assed bor 1l she had been intinaty with

OSWALD esd she had dented 1t. Fresident DORTICOS tuice asked Asbassador

---

## Page 22

14-00000

maRiuraz usetber the lexican polica had asked silvia DURAi questions

about "oney," and the president apparently vanted to knos whether the

Mexicans thought the Cubans had paid CstAlD soney.

the Mexicana had not attered SIlVia DURAll Donay, and DORMICOS EaVe

up try to put across bla polat.. President DORIICOs Inatracted

FARANDEZ to kes on questiontas Silria DURAl and to phose him bacie.

At, 7:39 PM that evening Ambassador HSRNANDEZ, did Call Iresident

COSTICOS back, saying ha bad queatloned "that person" asala and she bag

nothing new to sia.

FININODE DORTICOS returns to the lusua of wether

"they has threatened her so that she vould nate a statmeat that the

Consulate had given money to the nast"that Aserican."

FErdAME persiots in Maunderstandina DORMICOS, aasten in the nogative,

and saya: "Absolutely notilos was strea to hes." DORICOS sermo to give

1p, and the conversatlos dles out atter a fey sora general remarks.

He do not know fox sure wist naile President DORtICOs press for iniora-

thon about cubas nocey passed to ASWALD, but runars vero current In lexico

and even, to underatand, In the USA, that OSWALD had returred iron lexico

20.

---

## Page 23

14-00000

SCOUST

Cliy with sbout $5,000. Perbapa LORIICOS was tryins to learn wietbex

the lexican police belleved that the Cubans had i'lnanced CHAli. In any

event, the Cuban Coverent sent the Maricans a stiff note of protest

over the arrest and detention of silvla DURAi, but the lexicana

rejectad the note.

SECHET

---

