# 104-10186-10160

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10160

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

BIN ORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEX

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

COUNTRICUDE

SUNECT "MarIa Antoria" (an alias)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CSC1-316/01253-65

18 March 1963

1

CS-311/00119-64

(Page 11)

8 July 1964

INTO. 196+

INFO.

PLACE sHaShington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. MarCh 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVAILAISO

SOURCE GRADINOS AN DRIMITIVE: APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE, A fOrmer Catan IS Officer no served with the Cuban Intelligonce

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Connents

'he followiag report is one of a series containing personalit:

Information provided by the source

and includes supplemental

information iron the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any ol

he individuals sentioned in the personality reports withou

first chectag with this Agency.

1. "Haris Astonia" is employed in the MI Section (Department

of Technical Operational Support) of the Direccion General de

Inteligencia (Gereral Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

1t; & round

face, and a short, thick necis. I

Headquarters Comment

1. The recares of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable

informatioa on "Maria Antonia."

4

3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

STATE

" REP "CINCLA!"

NAN

CINCSO = IGNS

NSA

IXEY

LEBL 2

#INFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

MI.C. CA

1. LEXCANADA

LX 2511

" CMO IWET

LEE BRLUS

NO PROJECT (AUMUO'I

215-

WILL C BROSS

-210: 15

CSCI-316/01253-65

WIL HAVE

PORAL WHIC 8 (1). R$ 1 (1), C1 A, RID 1

SS: LD: 54K

VIER

---

## Page 2

14-00000

INFORMATION rEPORT

CINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

AlDA infOrMArIOn AdANtiDe the MANICOAl DATERTA Ol lDO URILOS DiATOR MISTA LA MARDITA dE lA FApionado LATe Mlle

sa use.

and 79.

RDO CTANATALOAIOR OF TATNAITTA Of UNICO dO ANY MANDeS lO dE USATIAITINd

parano la prasiblled be late.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN.

COUNTRICUDa

REPORT NO

CSC1-316/01253-65

SUBJECT "Maria Antonia" (an allas)

DATE DISTR

18 March 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES.

CS-311/00115-64

(Page 11)

8 July 1964

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE gHasbington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. March 1955

FIELD REPORT NO

TAS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE

APMALSAI OR CONTENT IS TENPATIVE.

SOURCE. A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1966.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personnilty

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information fron the records of this Agency.

He need fat ne

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

1.

'Maria Antonia" is employed in the MI Section (Department

of Technical Operational Support) of the Direccion General de

Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2.

five feet six inches tall, weighs 140 pounds,

ulla. she has a white complexion; brown hair with

some grey in

It; a round face; and a short, thick neci..

Headquarters Comment

1.

The records of this Agency reveal no additional identifinble

information on

"Maria Antonia.

3

2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

3

2

STATE

| 068

REP

ARUT

CINCLANT

I NAVY

CINCSO

I AIR

I&NS

INSA

last

LFBI 2

(Moto: fiald demonia addered by "'')

INFORMATION EPORT INFORMATION REPORT

#11. 'C/CA

MICILIA

ILE CANADAL

_L$ 251÷

MH C 30

AH: C/RR

IS. HACK

15=

iCILREA

&, LEMRILLSUL

L WASH BAL

NO PROJECT (ANNUO '1

-CSCI-316/01253-65

WH: C'RROSS

WN WALE

RID/dY

TOrALS WHiC S (1), WE l (1), CIA. RID I

VIBR

---

## Page 3

4-00000

APORMATION REPORTI

MINFORMATION RERORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRICuba

SUBJECT "Marla Antonia" (an altas)

REPORT NO.

CSC1-316/01253-65

DATE DISTR.

18 March 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(Page

11)

8 July 1984

DATO. °1964

INFO.

PLACE &Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ March 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED IMPORMATION. SOURCE ORADINGS ARE DEFIMITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS. TENTATIVE

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1968.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

Information

provided by the source

and includes supplemental

information from the

records of this Agency.

t is requested that the addressees tane no action on any o

individuals

mentioned in the personality reports withou

first checking with this Agency.

'Maria Antonia" is employed in the MI Section (Department

or Technical Operational Support) of the Direccion General d

Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

She has a white complexion; brown hair with some grey in

1t; a round face; and a short, thick necis. I

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable

information

"Maria Antonia."

4

3

2

1

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSES

3

2

STATE

1 DIA

ACHY

REP CINCLANT

I NAM

CINCSO #

I&N'S

INSA

1 OCR

1 FBI 2

(Nora: field distribution tadtored by "#)

INFORMATION REORI INFORMA GrONTREPORT

ИН С. СА

WE/5/R

CI/LIA

TE/CASADA!

AH C 380

WE MADR

CI/R&A_

AH. C. RR

152

I NASH BEL

RIDAY

LX 2514

NO PROJECT (AUMUO/I

CSCI-316/01253-65

ICOOMOINATING:

171 PLE

ToraLs WH/C 8

(1), WE. 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

S:LD:SH

Tenta

4/BR

---

