THod-40063-10338 > ., [2022 RELEASE ends THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. ue ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

sae ff ISSUED

regi eee eleelse 3; clvk 2

2G RET 1313302 UG 71 Clty GUENOS AIR 5, 18941
:£0 INFO DIRECTOR

_ 3BaT (BIDRAGON
“sa. @iETOuss06 Gu 399244) 13fue W 400739
@UITON 15291 (dgsvs3) a
GERLTAS 13879 Cp 395570)

to APPRECIATE SALAZAR TRACES REFS AND LOOKING FORWARD
» RECEIVING QUITO PHOTOS TO SHOw SYDRAGON-16, WHEN EGBONE-16
i S HERE HE WAS ASKED IF HE KNEW A "JORGE SALAZAR” IN GERNANY,
ar Ne SAID HE ONLY KNEW ONE IN QUITO. SINCE TIME WAS SHORT
DID NOT PROLONG DISCUSSION ABOUT SALAZAR WITH ECBONE-16.
GEST SALAZAR KNOWN TO EGBONE-16 MIGHT: BE THAT ONE LISTED IW
* BAS APPEARING IN LIAISON REPORT AS MEMBER PSRE QUITO 1967.
2o SINCE IDENTITY OF JORGE SALAZAR WHO VISITED HERE HAS
“€ BEEN ESTABLESHED, (THOUGH LIKELY HE IS IDENTICAL WITH
‘LAZAR SION, OR SALAZAR DELGADO OF REF C?, BELIEVE ARREST AT
‘HTS TIME NOT ADVISABLE. PREFER WATCH SALAZAR SION AS MUCH AS
“SSIBLE AND UNILATERALLY TRY TO ESTABLISH MORE ABOUT HIS
CSSIBLE CONMECTIONS WITH CUBANS, IF HE RECENTLY WAS IN BRENOS
‘RES, IF ECBONE-16 XNOWS HIM AND CAN PROVIDE #ORE INFO, ETC. o 4978

SPL ee £F
Pau C
SECRET i

fing qireeré


ates SECRET cto

Ppuanpeaes : (Whoa Filled In) etGsneson
eens yan wy eae al

REPRODUGTION CF THIS GOPY PROHIBITED:

i
i
uf
1)8¥ an:
'
{

bissem. By rem

«| RETION No.

FAGE 2. BUENOS AIRES 18941 SECRET

i
WOULD APPRECIATE ANY INFO QUITO CAN DEVELOP ON SALAZR SION

|| OR OTHERS WITH SEMILAR. NAME.
3o FILE: @}6-68/3. GP-1o
SECRET

SECRET
