# 104-10142-10056

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10142-10056

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

"INTERNAL USE ONLY

CONHIDENTIAL CUST

J-7

Journal - Office of Legiolative Counsel

Wednesday - 9 February 1977

H.S. C

A

77-0026/2

Page?

chrone

4. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Mike Nadigan,

Minority Cuunsel, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, calleri

lo inquire about the status of the Committee's request for information

on Panama. I told him I was attempting to set up an interview with

the Chief of Latin America Division fo: Friday. Madigan said that

is what he wanted to request.

5. (Confidential - PLC) LIAISON Mei with R. A. (Gus) Edwards,

Administrative Assistant to Representative Paul S. Trible, Jr. (R.:.

Va.)

and discussed arrangements for Mr. Tfible to meet withEd Mitchell, o3

OTT Agency officer in charge of Isolationto discuss the Agency's.

activities at the facility and to invite him down. Edwards had served

on the staff of former Representative Thomas N. Downing (D., Va.):

Mr. Trible's predecessor, and handled Agency maters concerning

(Isolation) Mr. Trible's schedule is very tight and Edwards will call.

The meeting will be a future Thursday, the day of the

week thai

Vir. Mitchely Visits Headquarters. The visit toisolation will probabl;

be on a Friday since Mr. Trible returns to his District each weekend.

Wes Finer, OTR, was advised.

6. (Confidential - PLC) BRIEFING Accompanied Doug George,

OWI, at a briefing of Chairman Olin E. Teague (D., Texas), House

Science and Technology Committee, which was conducted in his hospital

room at the Bethesda Naval Medical Center. Mr. George covered the

Soviel: anti-satellite progran and recent Soviet space developments.

(See Memorandum for the Record prepared by Mr. George.) Mr. league

was most appreciative of the efforts made for the brieling and expiessed

a very high regard and support for the Agency. He asked if we had any

iriformation as to an energy shortage in the Soviet Union and if they have

any breeder reactors for energy use. I told him I would check and get:

the information to him.

%. (Unclassified - PLC) ADMINISTRATIVE DELIVERIES

Delivered to Jacqueline Hess, Flouse Select Committee on ARsassinetiona

staff, the latest package ol Agency documents concerning the

assassination di President Kennedy which were teleased under court

order in the FOI case of Mr. Fensterwald.

20118

5/p1

INTERNAL. USS ONLY

---

