N F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT ie)

FORM ©
3-68



14-0000" t

150 e/oesde fox CLASHIED MESSAOE
». $2 JAN 59 séicke tT

‘ DIRECTOR

A Png tet 0:

refROM 1 HAVANA. SCS teed tabs Deator,
1 be 5s omy a nian
-

oy Ha ined

ACTION: «= WH OS,
INFO + DCI, D/DCI, COP, a/oo/P/P, “HTS F4/0Ps, ‘ripen ,

i

PRIORITY

faeces PP 2, PP/PRO, pP/PYD 2, sft br -aeath T

: IN 43348 0b i

eae OIR _ MEX] SACU ene HAVA 8796707
AMUTTER

oO 1
STATION TAKING ADVANTAGE OPPORTUNITY SEND NCEMAYR ON PLANE

CHARTERED BY BOHEMIA ANG TIME MAG TO CARRY JAY MALLIN AND
CARLOS CASTANEDA TO SACU TO INTERVIEW FIDEL CASTRO AND POSSIBLY
ACCOMPANY CASTRO PARTY WHEN IT COMES TO, HAVANA. , PLANE ETO .
HAVA 262% JAN 2. fk

: END OF ESSE

Be): : 8
ene ot Glen Sf;

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED, Cony Me.



“409 eafou
DEE _GI YAN 59
to =: DIRECTOR

Feom : SANTIAGO DE CUBA pater}
RE ab 1 cong ms inited = [OE
action: WH 6 tm fied windiest = Cf
We Tera ice wt :
into: Ct, CL/OPS, CI/OA, FI, F1/0PS, *S/C Nope wasined f°} ROUTINE.
: Sata dete

LA, uit lnaanaion enn TEE

In 43223

SRO EP RLY CMA VAT Hain ero D Ruin a ean ta Tate “SACU"317 7
eee eee

@-RE2_HAVA $766 (IN h2g71 )*
AFFIRMATIVE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *QUERIED IF SACU WAS IN POSITION TO ARRANGE VAIVADA ENTRY INTO REBEL
TERRITORY AS IN PREVIOUS CASES. HQS WISHED TO SEND HIM"OM HISS 108 SIMILAR TO THAT
TAKEN LAST MARCH,

2or- 16S oF)

* rorm 1389 SH Drees CONFIDENTIAL
oie Enemas
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHBITED. Copy No.

ne heaters lak Sy



sob /.e/saa/llP :

1 DATE + Gt JAN 59
- TO + DIRECTOR
[ROM HAVANA sieht ore
Y ycnon, HG eT ouve Nor oe 1 ie pee caang SECT.
INFO + s/c 2 : :
torr Le
a : IN 43216 :
a OPiM SACU WFO PRITY MEX! PRITY DIR ava #8
] Cian 818

rem 13a9 “Esa Ber 165, BEN
** REPRODUCTION BY OTH R THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. .- Copy no.

VIEW STRONG RUMORS FIDEL CASTRO COMING HAVA, CANCELLING

NOEMAY DEPARTURE FOR SACU.
FOR HQS, MEXI: MEANTIME PLAN USE HIM LOCAL INTEL COLLECTION.

RELEASED 9118592
END OF MSG

LRU Les |



js popah 1 HAVANA i
“agmons WH 6 (PRs EVANS, YH Issue
peo: | 8/02

cn 7 | re
4 wz, aegfhoen

' DIRECTOR *

1
at

. REC'D CABLE SECT.

‘PRIORITY

in M3

PRITY MEXI nro” DIR @ HAVA $798 27

kod
PLS ADVISE WIFE NOEMAYR HE SAFE AND NO NEED WORRY. HE
CONCERNED EXAGGERATED STORIES SUBMITTED BY WIRE SERVICES MAY

UNOULY UPSET HER

END OF MESSAGE

tial fe C168 Hi.
sEPODUCTION BY OTHEX THAN THE SUING OFRCE IS PROHITED. = Cony a



. | ~ PB eteett ele aa | A

BF a" — (CHECE FONE)
MP REED Fo DEEN
RO BERING REQUIRED
INDERING CAN EE JU0GED

1 "See below Queues Wa. DESK ONLY 7
!
i.
i
1
i
|
i

& February 1959

Biotribetiont i

3 = Mexico City i

1 - nE/Mailroom
1 ~ 4H/3/Mexico

(ks RI p
aN/3 Mexico, ings



ee a ver ipa OPE, oy,

pare» * 30 DEC 58 i
to" + * DIRECTOR i
won: HAVANA |
ACTION: “WH 6 i

£10 PRITY SACU INFO
0 DIR B62%5 (OUT 57838) +

1. SUBJECT REF ARRIVED HAVA EVENING 3 DEC.
ee Eeceeee ts
2. FOR SACU: SUBJ IS VAIVADA. HQS WISHES SEND HIM TO FIDEL i

CASTRO TERRITORY ON MISSION SIMILAR TO THAT UNDERTAKEN LAST MARCH.
IS SACU IN POSITION ARRANGE HIS ENTRY INTO REBEL TERRITORY AS IN -
PREVIOUS CASES? IF NOT HAVA PROBABLY» "CAN ARRANGE THROUGH 26 JULY
CONTACTS HERE BUT PREFERS IT BE DONE Tagouss ESTABLISHED CHANNELS i
% i

SACU IF AT ALL POSSIBLE. oo * i !
3. CABLE REPLY. PRIORITY. coe ieee: i.
_ ; eae

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *AOVISED NOEMAYR ENROUTE HAVA CMA FLT 565 ETA 30 DEC. SY
/ fe

ToRM 1389 cnn oc
c REPRODUCTION BY OTHER



. Are

CHT Bae aa ADS

DISPATCH | SsCRET/amAt— ! 3 Iwest-7933

J

TOr Chiof of Station, Mexico City RRS RT ES:
ie —201~32723-——

FROM :
1 Chief, WD i 4

fone S WE OT" — (CHECK “A ONE

~ Harold 8. NOZMAYR (ps) Waid FoR mote
x

WO PIDEZING eLQuNED,

Fierbeesenaeanag INDETING CAN BE SUDGEO
- Reply reference. ‘ By QUALIFIED HQ. Des ONLY

TTRERETT
MESI-7790, 19 June 1959

Please reply ta referenced dispatch at your earliest convenience so

. WH Division can start making plans for Subject's, future assignnente

"OLIVER G. GALEORD
3 August 1959
Distribution:
3 = Hoxico City
1 //WH/fexico/Rybat Chrono
Subject a ‘

WH/TIT/Mexico/E. I. SCALETTI:mpm

rer

fences torus

eros 4e-g aT



oo Oe
a 23 Dee. 70.

Hmmw- 6430...
Hamw 46 ce AV See SP ete REG.
ID Te FE PE PEEL
DOR D766 dt Faly $F, deseeeesiete Sy 2074 At Ge
LAM MW TI RB BAG SE MENG EFT
HAVA-766 _ wo BL OV ESE.
MAK AL7e¢
HA VA 2Z2. Ot/: (oF EEL,
AVA: des 16.8 FFL

SALMA SD eed eA YG concerns DONE NGL LEN eo
IN MAL TB 0 BF BS ccc DOIG L BEL
OF EEI 8

Qo Me EE

10 June ST

PeMs Ob FT In.

P26 ELE.

1 Fon. S92

LS en. SF...

Sirs Jers fr snere  Ausaass

Ga fab eae Ac Wy A Tel) Peer GANIC”)
it ||| ee i  S Do MO FEEL.

ial AY) 900 REY JA an nec D6 (- 6 FEEL.

hho b FEL
Ae MO FELL

LM ALAA A. :
Lon dmmw: 8499 00 6 Feb bo PLO EEL
MMA LIP OD on 60 an POL ETT
Le HMMA eel April ee Ber

Me 2



rrorrezy

BECRET

Tene ANAT Keene
Aériniotretive Fatters

ASTON RIQUFED UN WECES

ACTIO RSWIRD: Ae Indloated

: REFERNICUSs &) WCTH135, dtd 290c%60
UFCTA150, dtd 4how60
= patie

(3,

1. Please adving Fareld Ry KGRYATR the hospitalisation
application forvarded vie feferenes (i) fo proceesed, ond tho
effective dnte of coverage ts 27 Meverer 160,

2o Pleasa advice Charles KR, Pzi Wi thet his U, 3. Savings Beads
will bo retained in ltecdousrtars ponding his return, The Tayzoll Offica
handling 7420" accounts bas determined that this 4s e core seaure
nethod of making ure he receives then in person, rather than ending
tho bonds in cere of the party indicated in referoncs (B).

3. Flears evivice IGEN A that eo aw result of the Profloicrty Test
he tes wnile assigned leaally, ho obtainsd a Proficiency Seors of 87.
Ap the Hint-um Proficiency ceore for everd of Proficiency Pey io 94, be Lo
rot aligihie for the miré of freftetenay Poy.

bo Forvericd-wsier, suparate cover 1s accthar envelope conteining
copies of Travel Ordere far perconnel currently assigned Mash amt J-LIK.

Se Pleaoe advise Oliver Ha CLiSUSTOU that the ansual preniun oa
Ms Specified Diseases poliey to dus 30 Lovenbar 1960. The Yarily Plen for {
' ie poltey fa f10.00. Inasrmch a3 6 gree period of oxo (1) month ia granted,
{ you nay etvise CORBUSTGH te sutnit a check for the preaium enount to Mesdquartera
£3 soon es possible,

ERD OF KESS¢0R
e
() waza
(8) 5/os ee we/e
DISTRIBUTIOs . :
Orig. % 2 = CUB, JHASB, wfoncis. o/s |

ORIGINATING
array —— SLATS
1 = WH/d/registery COOHDINATIL

OFFICERS Naser

| Sor-rerrz

“RELEASING
urna sme, fos | ears artim,

1
Wi/t/sup, | 25 Hov.!

FORM pp uD paunuer=eb>"ssSnsuusHGnSHenee =a



veer ate

.- eet sitecles D dang 1997

UO" * 36 Heweabes 1980 - ..

|
H i
| | i
i
f
|
' H :
| Aeduction or hy lrect re : iz
| t tablisved by this arpeniestion. © H i
i io:

Ail olbee terrog and conditions of

and effect

2G kev. b0
op (GE ETS



iM 41651

4 MUDAGE FACED WITH INCREASING ACTIVITIES IN STUONT
£°@ FLELMSy CONTINUATION AND PRIGITSS AVRASP PROPCOD ACTIVE [I 2s

ENT OPS SUCH AS AMHISE, AMPATA, TOD) NEWSLETTER, CALAIS

3*, CUSANA, PRESSA LIBRE, ETC: TRAINING, INFILT AND SUPPORT

? CUBA; " DEVELOPMENT PROP ACTIVITIES WIT4 NEW POLITICAL
1 S.TETI23 E.G. ALIANZA, MRP PLUS ACTIVITIES IN LAWYER FIELD, SLA°

273, “°SP ATRDROPS CuBAa, ETC.

2 BETTER EXPLOIT OPERATICSAL POTENTIAL EXTANT CURRED

THEW OPS PATA 1 425VE, MASH HAS us

MASH KUCAGE SECTION CCNPOSED GOV

THEIR DUTLES

INCLUDE LARGE VOLUME INTERVAL PAPERWORK AND ACCOUNTING, PLUS
CaPASILITY.

T MOS CCNSIDER IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT MASH MINISUM ONE ©
a WITH SOME EXPERIENCE AND WORKING KNOWLEDGE OF SPANISH,
T “AVE SUBSEQUENT NEED FOR SECOND JUNIOR CASE OFFICER,

b 4. 2% CASE OFFICER REQUIREVENTS TO SE SUBJECT SEPARATE CABLE.

BND OF -c3SA52 i ; v

12 hev.bo
: Dore les FP Tl.
_. REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN Ini iSSu:NG OFFCE IS P2OHRTED Coos Pia.

i
i
i



14-6000 }

ce SECRET be, Us
~ TOT . |
eae Tor a /
- = + TRAVEL ORDER ves WE AW353-61 Fe

INVITATIONAL Amend Ho. 1

SERVICE HAVEL ROT WT
: Harold R. Noenayr  (P) ;
CTT STATION GHACE-FHONE ; CRBE
: Washington, D.C. 7 Contract
OU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND IXCUR NECESSARY EXPENSIS IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGLIATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OF
FILANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION. IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOX YOUR PERSONAL CONSENTENCE
THMERABY, MODE OF TEAVEC AND TODPOSE

Amended to authorize reizbursenent %.10 per mile for auto allowance as nore
advantageous to the government.

Balance of order remains the Bare.

: RAVE DURATION _ FIR OWEN RGTORDETE ROWE
coy roy owes Chis Pee TINIE FEAT
ied Lilet NoLTonnceto | . | Sbuase
in maximum | [OME (See below) Wen kines _|¥-10 foeavscrous

AEOWARES ASS CARAT OVIORS WOH AGERE

j DEFENOENT TRAVEL_AUTHOREED | PROCIHE TAANSFONTATION BY | HHINATID GOT OF HEATIE ied
i wae DATE OF ttn) atAnonaie| —] TeansrOwaTion REQUEST feeetes
: eas OF OTR : i
i 1 DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS A K
C AUINORIZATION lentes
Sarnewt | RBRRFOT T CERT’ FONDS ARE AVATABIE |
: SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED] ONTEATION REFEREE WO,
EXCESS GAGGAGE AUTHORIZED
: ‘ACCOMPANIED | UNACCOMPANIED WiwA~353-61 7
: TBS ANO MODE | UBS AND MODE] CHARGE COET CENTER RO. A
: ~| __ 1535-5000-0021
+ ACCOMPANY TRAVELER: SSS ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED DATE ct
TOUOW WiHIN 6 Mons === ves ACCOUNTING OUEDATT| J 5
~[ARVANCE TURN BO — Prod i
COORDINATION REGUEGIRIG OFFICIAL 7
2 TIRE & COMPONENT | __OATE TYPED NAME AND TITLE 7 COMPONENT . -
~ Willian E. Eisemann C/v8i/L/Support| ”: i

' foc COP |S.

‘AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

FED WAME AND TE

Tacob D, Esterline C/iti/
—_ = aa
wae AG qT Aw bo

. tmons, Scare Pol (OTST (em



TAYE A

TRAVEL ORDER WORK

at

ray

Fase EET >

rRATEL ORT RO

mend.

tte sh,

7 S Mae 122 Bt i

STEE TAAL CASE A

cry

| Cody. E

ack,

and) eS

Pen Dit ALLOWAE

oo couesTie—] ToAticn

ie

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED

WAX

RADWARCES FD SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

PESCURE TRANSPORTATION Y

‘OTHER

DATE OF GinTw [RELATIONSHIP

eax Ponration REQUEST

cAS OF OTHER

isos

AUTHORIIATION

[ene]

[ourwenr rox arenoms

TEESE GAGEAGE AVTMORIZED

|
i

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IY ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR
CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IP SO DESIGNATED, 15 MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVES

Tae Tae ees L, aay a

rrile Ear

@ Aw

TRAVEL CURATION

a
RAGADELE ALLOWANCE

WOT TD C7200
051 Gr cue
Mon Coe

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

‘CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVARADE

eth atvdapiaeamamasenesse

Tekoupanit | waccourinita
Teo BOE oa 7
EE uPAR TRAVELER Teanct oF Fnos aeautsTD JOE TORTAT OFT T OER
FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS: [res ACCOUNTING OUE BATE
BeANCE RETIN Tr :
COOHDINATION REQUESTING OFFICIAL
Ties [__tine « ccuronent | anit] Fete ee wT Cra

TYPED WE ORD TCE

AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL
z COFORET

NIENCE.

Btov id

in 13



|

Re cBRRO Wane Desc Abe in Sab a Mar each etna

SECRET

PERFORMANCE REPORT
FOR CONTRACT PERSONNEL

vo° :  FD/cxtaB/SAAS
THROUGH: = WH/BAF
Frou; WH/3/Moxico

THDIVIDUAL (Peeudanyad + [prosect PERIOD

Harold R, KOEAYR LIED 30 Oct. ~ 27 Nov. 1960

patibibeodaiee

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING HE THOS OF PEYMERT

i
i
i
i

FACTORS AP FECTING AUOUNT DUE

1
|
j
H

TEAVE TAKEN OURING PERIOD {II contiact provides Teave enniiTemeaty

CERTIFICATION

ALGERTIFY THAY FoR THE PERIOD INDICATED THIS INDIYIDUAL HAs PERFORMED In.
ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF NIS CONTRACT ANO IS ENTITLED TO PAYMENT.

[stonavone OF at THORTTES OFFIC

Hed P. Holman, AC/iH/3

Tae" 433. use pmevious corrom.

SECRET Oeo/-/601F/)



TOSSeATION Daraton BIMeE AND HO j
BE CR ET UFGT 135
Chief, hHD bsbtacieiisidhtrdttas
Chief of Ease, “pasa fall 007 29 1369 k
_JHNET/Adatp/wSLUGGAGE [ear Ota one be
Hospitalization Insurance, Harold R. HD NDRING FEGIRED i :
Latdesehtrocernaret ———— INDEXING CAN Bi JUDGED +

BY QUAURED HO. DESC OnLy

aereeices

UFGS-66

from his salary. ne would appreciate being advised of

subject's policy number and tlie effective date of the

coverage.

Attachment: Hospitalization Appl, ASA
27 October 1960

Distribution: a
3 - Headquarters w/att w 1 ye
2- Files w/o att. ue: .

a

*.
a
~*~

i

Sel estTh

i UFGT 135 '
Ho ust nor on ssncation pect ak
: 8 sa
ue imjmesese  SECR g@ TC eovenen iene



H
i

DISPATCH | stan

[po nines eo
iy omni

peacgeaaTes Se

Gis eer ncaa

S casract

ACTON REQURED - ROE

1. It 49 requested that the attached application for Health Insurance be
given to Earold BR. KQSHAYR for completion. HOZHAYR ms; retain the
menorandaa which outlines hia coverage, The completed forms. should be returned
to Hoadquertars for processing, The premiums will be dedacted froa HOGHAYR's
salary. Hcadquarters will notify HOEMAYR when his policy is in effects

20 Please explain to NOIMAYR that this plan covers basically tuo types
of hselth insurance. 1: the norm. hospitalisation explained in reragraph 3
of the attachmont wnieh inoludss in- and out-patient care, surgery and mtaraity,
‘The alleweble expenses covered under thio section are immediately reixburauble ~
Within the limits of the plan, 2: the major medical bensfit plan described in
ph hk covers miscellaneous medical expenses not normlly comected with |
hospitalization such as doctors! office, visits, doctors’ hone visits, prescrip=

family. “f expenses exceed this $100 for any person during the calendar year,
then the palicy will pay for 60% of their additional expenses. In conection
With this phase of th: plan, it is suggasted that NOBUYR be advised to have
ids family keep a detailed resomi of ail medical capsnses incurred by cach
member of ths family.

3. HOPMAYR should be advised that under the hospitalisation ssctdon of
_ the plan, up to $75.00 can bo reixbursed for surgical fesa in comection with

a tonsilecteny, whether the tonsilectomy is performed in a hospital or in the
surgeon's offices.

ERD OF DIsPatcH

Distributions 7 DATE TYPED. CATE DISPATOED.
oct. 1960 | 22 ocT 1960

CROSS REFERENT ORSPATCH SYM AND MURA

ariainaTine

eo Savane eer
Lex Wifi Pesistry comet src. owt ornare naa
WAS Ora arom yf!
i ; rea f
Do}-/6r il

oP ar fia boretasey fees

iiriaee



14-6000 sot

=
cea eat mae oN aa i
; - OFFICIAL DISPATCH A
KT yesseseenaee.  easssezissesta = DISPATCH NO. __ Bi =61:8)._ :

ay ha a . i

201-32723
19 JUK 1968 “a

TO * 3 Chief of Station, Hexico City” DATE
you § Chief, WHD

GENERAL Doperational
sunt ome + Harold R. NOSMATR

ACTION REQUESTED: Sign and Return Contract feee|

Forwarded herewith is an original and three copie) of an amendaent

to Bubject's contract. Please bave Subject s: thebe popies and have

' them properly witnessed end signed by the Chief ors as contracting
: officer. Please return all but ons copf tododiquarterd :

16 due 1958
Attachment:
As described 2b

Distribution:

Say Ty

fms. C. KING, C/mD

rnin 51-29



vo + FB/eeTAB/BAAS
taroucH:  WA/BEP
Frou: WH/2/Hoxiso

THOIVIDUAL (Peeudon ya) PaouECT

==

PERIOD

2 Oat. = 29 Ont, 1960

SPECIAE WET RUC TIONS REGARDING WE THOS OF PAYMENT —

Dspoalt to benk escount
on filo in Finance Mivisiaa

FACTORS AFFECTING AOUNT DUE

LEAVE TAKER DURING PERIOD (IT controct provides [ears eniiile@en)

CERTIFICATION

A CERTIFY THAT FOR THE PERIOD INDICATED THIS INDIVIOUAL HAS PERFORMED IN
REEGRUANEE wives Tne Tenses OF mis CONTRACT AND IS ENTITLED TO PAYMENT.

[Bawa TaRe OF BOTHORTEED OFFICE

OE" 433 use previous corrion.

SECRET

cs eram mens igisttnepiscee iebentnwteinanecabaraimantes rere tienen mm incense

Do/-lox ces



Tore Tene orbes we

353

STE FEEL OEE

cry

Cee. Agw

NSES 18 ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRA
NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVESIENCE,

You ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR iWECESSARY EXPE:
CHANGE‘OP OFFICIAL STATION,

oo A yee Ay for T DY

‘VP $0 DESIGNATED, 15 READE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND

TaavE OvRATION PER Dit NLOWINCE,

Say =

aren Tig AEA PROT WT RT
re/
oS

‘DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED PROCURE TRANSPOFTATION ET
DATE OF GiRTH[ RELATIONSHIP | [TRANSPORTATION REQUEST

[cai 08 OTHER

‘DISPOSITION OF EFFTETS
‘AUTHORIZATION

[SeeMERT
[SHIPMENT POA AUTH

TACESS EAGCACE AUTHORED
‘RECOMPANIED

“RECOMPARY TRAVELER
FOLLGW WTA 6 WONTHS

MANGE RELI

}
{



SECRET

TRAVEL ORDER Gay

ParTee Trav ASL WO

430-42

-__ Washington, D. C.

[itevitarionat basher cece te
SOE TRA CSTE BT
Harold R. Nocnaver  (P) :
Tea TTR Tr Oca cias tog

THNTRARY, ODE GF TaANTC AAD PURPA

Washington, D. C. to Area Ila for TDY and return.=

MOLE: POV
i PURPOSE: Operational Mission

i Tan ona Fin bila Miwon
oe ERS DOMESTIC ‘FOREIGN

: : Torro ere
; [2 Sept. [31 Jan 61 ff se

TELOWAACES Wid SPECIAL PROVISION WITH REASONS

Authorized reimbursement auto expense for operational use.

DEPENOENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED
tau [DATE OF einTH] RELATIONSMIP

PROGIAE TRANSPORTATION BY
TRANSPORTATION REGUEST
Jost on ormeR

DisPOSiTiON OF EFFECTS

SER (FEET ‘AUTHORIZATION

seoueat | _ [SPRTER
SHIPVENT PCR AUTHORIZED
THCESS SAGEAGE AUTHORIZED
TREESIPANED [UNACCOMPANIED

FY 61

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

- $750

a

Carcer Agent

YOU ARECAUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR
CHANGE OF Of FICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, 15 MADE FOK OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

asware
Sovantecenus
iocdes

4 Tas aro HOSE TES AI MODE

ACCOMPANY TRATELEE
TouLow WITHIN § MONTHS
TOVANCE RETURN

COORDINATION

THLE & COMPONENT AE

TiRATORE

TAUTHORTEING OFFICIAL

TPO TAME AD HE

Jacob D. Esterline

ppewere

i



be
Buss > L
Hs “CLASSIFIED MESSAGE." i
earn SECRET FeSe ens :
°* uNite 3 ;
ee Vee ey
‘
[OR
A o i
: :
INFO! , AvoP/A, S/c 2 CTMMEDIRTE :

CUTE5O4
nthe a?

oS

|

: {

~ ' Jo MASH pRoRrTy INFO cneor = 48514 ° :
. es Woey i
|

i

AREER AGENT, TO ASSIST MR. KENT DEPARTING VIA POY

EBD OF MESSAGE ye :
OP id nn yh |

wt We waa i

Mey

ene mi ith ie

¢ (thes)

HERBERT V.
oAay/,
: cooroinstine oFricess mia
RELEASING OFFiceR Avruenticartno orntens
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. eae “Copy Na,

colle sty

oe


FRAMES

AGE:

ADDRESS:

EMPLOYED?

:

Research Specialist

OCCUPATION:



peed
“ S-E-C-R-E-T aa
(When Filled In) 20 JUL 1960

cniel,
Miss tte Zehrung
Deputy Director of Security (Investigations ‘

and Support) : _

SUBJECT 2 $-8760
J2154E3

7 L. Reference is rade to your menorandwh dated 22 Apri 1960 wherein
' i you requested a covert security approval to cover possibility that Subject
may learn of @eteils of n-lav's work for eney. Tt is wi
stood the Subject resi her brother-in-lev end nis wife, and although
is aware he does conti work for the U.S. Governacnt, she is not wittin.

his Ageney connections is also understood that no direct revelation of tue :
gubject's_brother-in
2. In

s work for this Agency is intended. i

‘accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine
Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction -
Field No. 10-5, 4 covert security approval is granted for the use of
the Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,
above. :

3. A memorandum containing pertinent information regarding Subject
is being forwarded to CI/QA this date. CI/OA should be contacted and
this information reviewed prior to any utilization of Subject.

: 4, Subjects of covert security approvals are not to represent : |
Ln} woth -eothemselves as, nor aré they to be represented as, employees of CIA. bitter aie

5. Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security

: approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions ||

of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore, if you should desire at o later j

date to change the status or use ofthis individual, a request. for

approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to.this
office.

6. ‘his approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's
services are not utilized within six months of the date of this

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:.

a ; aoe i : EET

Se 16 EEL



|
d

heen rome 10, — SE

: had :
Office Memorandu 2 © UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: ‘
20 JUL i969

#  Catef, Vi Divisi

sO9'i : Miss Charlotte

to official icency buildin:
that he will not engar
USA.

3. A nenorandina containis
Subject is be’ng forwarded to
tacted and this infommtion reviewed

4. Subjects of covert security epprovals ere not ‘to represent
» thenselves es, nor are they to be represented as, exployees of

5. Your attention is called to the fact ¢
approval does not constitute complete e
of CIA Rezulation 10-210.
date to chance the status or use
epprovel to cover er

6. This epproval becones invalid in the event the Subject's
Services ere not utilized within six mouths of the date of this memoranda.



Fa
é

\ ay TT

C-82713 (S-B6LL) NN. ArgeNna Cordero de CR2ZIER
RI Trace, : : Paul eae
cL #107169, 2 12950.

CSA res" 22 Avril.1940, Actmovledged by Ci/2a 27 april 1940.
Acknowledged by 0S/SSD, 6 Kay 1960. (S # 86Lh)

CSA granted 20 July 1960

-derog.

: rad ete
i
i
Ice

i

ianeeeea Fe cenonwinacearmecnts Ea SORTA

or /6F CFs



c-82712 (S-8750)

_ Acknowledged ty OS/SSD, 13 May 1960. (S $3760)

RE Trace, Mo record. ~~
GL #102170, 22 arid 1950.

CEA req'd 22 Aci] 1930, Acknowledged by O1/0A 27

CSA granted 20 July 1960

Der 166 fF



oS Soper
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Harold RA. Moexayr Assistance
to WY/A/CA Effort

1. Harold Re Nocxayy tae been working full time for WH/L/Prop and
WH/h/PA sinco early Tuce 1540. He hao translated important. propaganda or
political action manuscripts into Spanish and from Spanish into Englishes

Ho has proofread materials to be sent to the station. He has offered sug-

gestions on operational possibilities and reviewed critically « great deal

of propaganda material under preparation by itil/le i

2. Mr. Noemayrts work bas been of the highest quality and has been A
_ Of Anestimable value to Wii/s. io

3e It 1a hoped that he will be able te continue in hie advisory and
support capacity, espocially to our propaganda offort. H

DAVID A. PHILLIPS |
C/it/4/Prop oy

a 13 Juty be
SECRET Des es Fi/



Finance Division
WH/Bar
‘HH/3/Mexi.co

| Harold Ry HORUYR LIEGE - - 1 me
SUI Mexico elated Atta

"" :

Me Ps Holman, A0/i/3

Der- 166251



)

SECRET.
PPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE. ACTION

handearey 1 copy of this fore),

| ClI/Operational Approval und Support Division

Security Support Division/Office of Security

freee, Argentina CORDERO de CROZIER TREE LIEDGE

CRYPT ONY, PSEUDONYE, AKA OR AL

ses 7 C170 FILE HO.

RI 201 Fue wo.

0 File wa.

TYPE ACTION FE cUESTED
Treovisiowat PAOPDIETARY APPROVAL,

‘PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
OPERATIONAL AF)

‘pRovisiowal covert ScCi

OVAL f \Pacraietany aPPwovAL

TRY APPaOvAL [eoveet waue cwtce

CovEnT sEcunity APPROVAL

[SPECIAL InoUIRY (SO field daveatiaation)

cericrans

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S.
i USE _CF_INDIVIGUAL Ok ACTION REQUESTED

SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

Foie vetatis oF usr i
Subject will not be used operationally, She ie the wife of Harold 3. YOHAYR }
(c-25507), a Career Agent. Sy virtue of this relationship she necessarily i
becomes exposed to. some operational activity of her husband, She ‘rows he is :
engaged in intelligence work for KU2ARK. Ske knows he meets agents and has i

spoken to then on the phone, but does rot Imow their naxes. Ske mows his
activities are targeted against Cocrunists,

INVESTIGATIVE COVER

TS Om WIC SUBJECT OC AVARE OF U-S. GOVERAMENT INTEREST IN WIM? YES [no

IHONCATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONS OF COVERAGE OLEI@CO Im Tat SECWaATY OFFICE TaVERTIGATION
Any investigation of Subject should reveal in no way Goverment interest.
Subject's husband ie under sensitive ceeo covzi

IF MD INVESTIGATION CUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS HO

(2) cortes atTacnee Treo tt

‘OR EQUIVALENT, 1h (1) COPY ATTACHED Tete LIST ATTACHED. Nor
Fieco traces Costa Rica

mo eecone Tao tnronmariow of vatue
‘DEROGATORY IMFORWATION ATTACHED, WIT EVALUATION

[eet _iitiateo (Zeplenotion)
RI TRACES (Derogatory Information aod Eveleation Attached nO tPOl
Tt

#0 t. OR EQUIVALENT,
Prot.

es Torner
[etrocatoar

Division TRACES (bereasterd Tat
Jrecoeo [scn-oesocarony L_ [Peocaronr
StcnaTune oF caBt OFFICER Sidn|StenaTeat oF eancw CmIEF

C.Zehrung, ¥H/3/Mexico 62 H.P,Holman, AC/H/3
TO TTD tree SECRET

i
i
|
|
i
i



: PART f = BIOGRAPHICAL IRFORMATION

DISPATOR nO.

ion is not applicable, wr
1 te. A

GENERAL PERSOMAL AMD PHYSICAL DATA C deeeey
T. wane (Pivety qurdaiey (Wety :
Argentina ia E corgero-Galderon

<WAME Im wATIVE LANGUAGE O8 ECWIPT™ Ta (ET ai erent thes Ties Ty

4 ALOASES. miGKWAMES. TELECODES. LEGAL Chance in want (ST

Ss BAYE OF wit 3 Fince oF ere ae
i 15 ‘arch 191 (also revorted 1915) San Jose, Costa Rica

fy. Pe@sonAt wagits (Ligu:

a, charges, pualshacate, sentences, scqull

fo. court mecoao (Court, date, a

None Inoxn

4
‘BC APPARENT AGE + wercut |of- comPLexion .
127 [ olive i
ais coven oF eves ais vem dae
: " brown | y
SEARS and WaRKS Om OTHER O1aTinGUIanTNG FEATURES }
Sear on left cheek and jaw visible only. on examination. 7

[oe- Semenat aPPeARANCE
oud
"ROMINERT FEATURES

Vine FEATURES

ATTACH SAMPLES OF SIGNATURE AND BANDERITING: ALSO DATED PHOTOGRAPH AND FINGREPSINTS. IF OBTAINABLE

FoR 1050 wae cere

1 te-200



{
i

erectomanimiinnsstane won

CITIZRSTP

+ Patstwy citizensmie [ 2. WATIONALITY AT BIRTm ARE amy SuBSCOUGe? CiTidEusn
Cesta ica:

PeRWaNENT ADDRESS (If different than Tiea 3.)
San Juan Tibas, San Jose, Costa Aica

5: NF U5. WATUBALSZEO CITITEN, GIVE WANE, DATE, CITY AND WuWGER OF CERTIFICATE Gaanit®

dates and purpo

5
ut Latin america. Prior to waTriage she had

SECTION THT OCCUPATIONAL AND FINANCIAL DATA

1s PRESERT OCCUPATION 2 rime
housewife

y (Per annuay

4. Financiat status (Earaings, bank depo

, securities end property)

SECTION WV ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

ASHIP IK RELIGIOUS UkGaMIZATIONS

2) PRESENT AND PAST MEMBLASHIP IM PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS: POLITICAL, AFFILGATIONS

‘Stciioa Vv EDUCATIONAL DATA

1. SCHOOLS,

aut oF course DATES AT LENO cence
a 7 RECEIVED

Beauty Overator | August 1957] FP

2. UANGUAGES AND DIALECTS:

Lancuace coupe rence

UNDERSTAND

|
}



SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS AnD 1NTEPESTS

Wtve OLTAILS INCLUDING TETLES OF DOORS OF as

TCLES, AUSO WANES OF PUBLISMLRS AND PURI

2. sPechaL Senues, &

TTIES, WOBBICS SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGRAPHY, “ETC.

HILUTARY SERVICE

unit

ea

| |

| |

rote
Parsomce.

FYENG COUNTRY. INDICATE WHERE SERVICE PERFORMED, OECORATIONS.

SHEN ANO BHY DISCHARGED.

Give OeTANLS VF wee

EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE:

INDICATE GIPONGLOGICAL HISTORY OF EXPLOYWENT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST.

INCLUOS ANY GOVERWWENT BUPLOTWEST.

A. INCLUSIVE DATES (Fi FI
Decenber 1915-zresen'

2 GuPtover
housewife

pertrrrrrama
2

© WOE OF WORK

7 SALARY OR EARNINGS

EASON FOR LEAVING.

Tectosiwe Dates (Fi
Barly 19h5-Tee

perce
Colon, 2e> de Panana

a TPE OF ORK

ashier

EARNINGS a
ree 0

BEATON FOR LEAVING
narriage

> INCLUSIVE OATES (From-Toy

Iskt

7 euncovee
Post Exchange

ADDRESS

Fort Gnlick, Canal Zone

a. TPE OF ORR
Soda Fountain

So SALARY OR EARNINGS o
7S Pee nO

REASON FOR LEAVING

higher salary

T. inctusive vates (Frew Top

kh

3 Ewriover

Pos’ Focchange

i woRESS

Fort Shernan, Canal Zone

“a. TPE oF wonn
Soda Fountain

S_ SALARY OF EARNINGS q
ra pee TO

‘SOw FOR LEAVING

Labot problens

Te INCLUSIVE Dates (Froe-To,

2952

2 UPLOVER
eS. ary

T 3 ADeRESS

For’

= We OF wane
Soda Fountain

B_SALARY OR EARNINGS oo

Reason FOR WEAVING

{
}
H



‘STATUS
oT [ser

RCES 08 AUNLLMENTS

ory XTorvoneeo [seve

Pedro CahP0-iarzal, married son
Place of birth are beli
Now res: 5
incozpatihility. .

BIC OR AF You HAVE GLEN WABRIED WORE THAN ONCE, INCLUDING AnuuLutnTa.

USE SHEET FOR FoPUCe wi Om HUSEANO
HUSBANDS GhyInG OaTA REQUIRED BCLOW FOR ALL PrevioUS waRriace®,

3 WANE OF SPOUSE (Fivaty (WiddTey (Neo) f
Ross Lester os

oo pate OF manatee 3 FUaGE OF mann nee

1? Decende Grictodal, Canal Zone

fe ate oF pinta

20 done 1822

B wationaci Ty at GIR

U.S.A.

CHILDREN

Sex

é
i
i
1
i

PLACE oF 8}

MSuBSCoUEWY Cri zERsHIPs HELO GY any CHILD (Identify child and give hiss or her

font oddressy

o [section FaneR i
Perens f. veanor iain [3 Peace oF pian a NaToea TAT
Alberto CORDE3I-LOAIZA | 1897 [as Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rican
B SuaBCOUtRT crrvzEmoniPs a= Securatron 3 PRESENT weSTOEREE
i | | deceased - 19h2
e
2 Vian ov aint [3 PLACE OF BATH la eaFiona tT av over
[hae San Jose,Costa Rica [eccta Sean
js- Sceuraticw 3 Pataca west once :

housewife é

czased - 1956 5



‘SECTION KINE ‘AND SISTERS

FULL mane PLACE OF o1aTH

co CORTR2I-CALE

$22 San

1923 | San Jose,. Corta

“*SURSEQUERT CITIZEWSnIPS MELD BY ANY BROVHER OR SiSTEA (Identily brothery or

X 1g25 Jose, Coste
X 192? San Jose, Costa 3
X 193k n dose, Costa

X 1932 Jose, Costa

. RELATIVES, ACQUATNTANCES AND COR
: MAY GOVERMENT SERVICES INDICATE WAUE OF GOvEmuutuTS AND POSITIONS HELDT

aRipy
2 sisters - Scnsvel> ~ sister (live together)
‘ Norma (92-04 (husband's nare unkmcim) - sister (residaég,
i at 150 Moin Street, Pt., Lass,

TURAL TATION OF CLOSE RELATIVES IH 0-5. (IVE mam clip oad pucker of cartiVicale granted

have U.5,. citizenship

MIMES. ALIASES, TELECODES AND RELATIONSHIP OF ALL PERSONS RNGEN TO OE CONNECTED IN ANY WAY ETN AAW TATELLTGENEE
seavice.

PERSOWAL ASSOCIATIONS
1. CIST CLOSE ASSOCIATES, INDIVIDUALS OR GROUPS

HISCELUANEOUS.

‘StevaTune



1

: 2 SECRET -
REQUEST FoR APPROVAL OR IMYESTIGATIVE ACTION

seve benceerey 1 coy of thie lore)
| Cl/Userational spprovat and Support Division

| | Security Support Divisifon/Office of Security

»  {SUBJECT: Consuelo FalSeia CORUPRO-Calderon Enueaneeeeee

1 [Orrwe naeey

CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM. AKA OF ALIASES €1/0a FILE nO,

Ri 207 FILE NOL

30 FILE WO.

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED
PROVISICAAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL 4

y[orematicwat aPreovat PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

‘PROvISio~eL COveRT SECUBITY APPROVAL COVERT NAME CHECK i
Covert SECURITY APPROVAL SPECIAL INOUIRY (SO field inv
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR CIstSoN WITH U.S. OFFICIALS

USE OF INDIVIDUAL OR ACTION REQUESTED

SPECEFIC ADEA OF USE

Toe Sevaee OF EE
Subject is residing vith Earold R. NOZMAYR (ps), Career Agent, hor brothercin-lav. i
Bocause of this, she night find out some details of NOSMAYR's real job. She does not
know he 49 working for FUSA3K, but she doss know he works for ODYOXE in a confidentie

i capacity: W2KATR said. ste Has neither an avarenoss nor an interest in politica.

No Id traces on her husbend Arthur Surgett. ‘ithout more bio-data, it vas imossible

to trace 3i]2 Parker.

INVESTIGATIVE COVER
Qi On WIL SuesECT eC, ceane oF u.5, GOVERNMENT INTEREST IW HINT
“ Ts O8 WILL SUBJECT DE avasE oF CIA INTEREST IN WIM?
INDICATE SPECIAL LIWITATIONS O@ COVESAGE DESIRED Im THE SECURITY OFFICE INVESTIGATION

No investigation should indicate U.S. Government interest. NO@MAYR is. under
sensitive covers Seereseeerirzee

TF WO SNVESTIGATION OUTSIDE Cha, ExPLAiN FULLY H

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS
Pao 1, ca Coulvalfar, om (2) Corres ATTACHED AL reo 11 wie ah hieeed not be forwarded
Peo 11- e8 COUIVALENT. 15 (1) copy ATTACHED GREEN UIST ATFACHED.nOr

osta Hica

mo acces WO InFORWATION OF VALUE

DEROGATOSY IMFOPNATION ATTACHED. @/TW EVALUATION OT tnitsareD (Explanctl
| [entt ee reavanneo

BR) TRACES (Derogetory Infor
oo

— DIVISION TRACES (Derogatory To

K[no necoao L_]nteoes on

‘SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER

‘DuwoeaToRY

C. Zehrung, Wi/3/exico

o



PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONHAIRE Fay Ne,
PART | ~ BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION
ira sea

wer ofl questions. 1F
inch blank pages. if edgitsonal_enace i

COAERAL PERSOMAL AD PHYSICAL DATA
Tait FIFA qurdates Tats aay
Consuelo Felicia Pores

TeSTRUCTIONS: 1.
7
Fav

OaCALD

¥ wait AY BiatH CIT ATU Terent then ftee Ty

Fo Wau IW WATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCRIPT

© ALIASES, WICKNAMES, TELECODES, LEGAL CHARGE Im aawE ( sa Tor and place oF ave)

5. Bave oF GIRTH %. PLace oF BRM
dubs 1928 San Jose, Gesta Rica
lx 162 2

3 (Ligeot, dew

7 PcRSOaL wae

Kone

fe. count necono (Court. det

charges, puniabment wequitale)

Kone ,

‘DEscarptiow (Use Anericas standards of we

ac. apparent act| 9¢- HEr@tT tit 3+ Face (Shape)
wn 1p oval

‘colon OF wal wie covow oF eves Foswure
brom blue good

SERRE AND WARK OF OTWER DISTINGUISHING FEATURES

GEmERaL APPEARANCE
attractive and neat
rearuecs
rene
OTwin. 1OENTIFVING FEATURES
one =
SARTLES OF SIGHATURE IND BAROWTITING: ALSO DATED PHOTOGRAPH AND FINGERPRINTS IP OBTAINABLE

Ont 1050 ese ts Tez



© [Sct Crt Tease .

Tr PRLSENY CrviTENSHIP wana bev SuBSCOUENT CiTizEnamiPa (10 different than Theo 1)

Soste Rican ere t

J peesinr arsvoEncl (ladicate ov omnes, tenant :
Erocisential Sar i

Tr PERMANENT ADDRESS (If different thes Fem I
bar, cosz, Sorta i i

i-
TRAvic OUTSIDE CoUNTAY OF PACSIMT RESIDENCE (Granteie i
argentina and i
live i: 1
ronths. |
E er 2 i
@ [SECTION LIL OCCUPATICAAL AHD FINANCIAL DATA ° 1

Ve PRESENT OCCUPATION Ta. rime SALARY (Per annum) |
Eeautician }

T eimancial STATUS (Earoinge, Dank depo i

vnom - not believe? to have eny acsets
© | section tv. ORGARIZATICNAL AFFIL{ATIONS @

1. MEWOERSHIP tw RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
Catholic

TO PREStAT AnD AST MEUDERSHIP IW PROFESSIONAL AAD SOCIAL ORGAMITATHONS: POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS
one recy

: 0 [Storia ¥ TEORCATIONAL DATA °

7, SCHOOLS

NAME GF COURSE DATES ATIEMOEO Pier
1 RECEIVED

MAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL

Sratuate’

Zs CANGUAGES AND DIALECTS

Lancuace coupcrEnce

UNOERSTRND

id wmite sr eax

(Liat Below each Longs which poo
any degree of competence.)

ves | ves | x0 ve | ome Loves | xo

Spanish (native)



: @ [SECTION vi ‘SPECVAL QUALIFICATIONS AMD INTERESTS: t isseest

VINDICATE Qne WASTING. Gtwd METAILE PMCHURIMT TITLES OF BOOKS OF ADTICLES, ALSO WAMES OF PUBLISHERS AND PUBLICAT ie
Tow DATES.

2. SPECIAL SKILLS, AGILITIES, HOBBIES SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGRAPHY, CIC.

None

© [section viv MILITARY SERVICE id | SCCreeeeaaa

countey joss _} unter

Ta

IDENTIFY IMG“COUNTRY. INDICATE WHERE SCAVICE PERFORMED, OECORAYIONS. SHEN AND BMY DISCHARGED. GIVE DETAILS 1F WAR
PRISONER.

@ [section vitt EMPLOYMENT HISTORY. hd .
MOTE: INDICATE GIRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF BXPLOYUENT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST. INCLUDE ANY GOVERWENT EYPLOYYENT.
Vs INCLUSIVE oaFeS (Froo-To] 2. cuPLoveR 3 ADDRESS a *
1957-present (see attached) | .

@ Tre oF woRK S_SALARY OR EARNINGS REASON FOR LEAVING
7 ree

T. inclusive cates (Froe-To}3. euroven ST Tapaaeesl
1953 - 1957 Pordslle 3eauty Parlor Ean Jose,
a WPE OF one S_ Sacany On cameras [e REASON FoR LEAVING
beautician 2 oS ree iO cane to 2.5
To aNcLusivE GATES (FFOo=FO] 7 EurLoveR 3 AODREST
1g? - 1sh9 Gina's Cocktail Lounge| Tanana City
TRE OF WORK S SaLany om Eannines ataiow Fon LEAVING
cashier a 85 pe 5 cenerted for Sosta Rica
Tactusive Oates (Freo-fo) 2. curLoven ‘3. ADDRESS:
1pls5 - Ishé resch Cafe # “ar | Solon, Renublic of Fanama
[ewe or wom fsi_savany on camnincs __[e- eeasow Fon Ceavine

A and eenarted for U.S.

INCLUSIVE DATES (Froe-To}?. eurcover : ADORESS.
iE Aghk2_- 1shh Post Exchange | Fort. Randolph, Fort Sherman, Carial Zoge
= vee oF wone SSatany om Eaanings achson Yow LEAVING
Soda fountain left with sister

pei eon

.



° HARITAL STATUS ° t
vente one] [simcce _][uannreo L_[rveoere [screeareo [ervenero L [eres L
‘ STATE DATC, PLACE An AEASON FO ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR AnMuLDENTS H
Herried arthur turgett, U.S. of y ES. La orist 1 eone,
nilareh 19h6, Livorced in 19h7.

Married Wllisn Farker, (.3. eltizen, Can: Fanaa
city. Tvorced car’ : I
: |
: SIFE O€ | IF Vou WAVE BEEN MARRIED WORE THAN ONCE, INCLUOING ANMULWEATS, USE SMEET FOR Foun WiTE OF nusuane i
. : HUSBAND: GIVING DATA REQUIRED GCLoW TOR ALL PoE iOUS MaRRt AGES : i
;  [& Maw oF spouse (Firety (uidatey (Nery (lesty f
£22 ebove ;
!, “(AONE oF wanarace [i Peace oF wanmiace }
ear above i
ATE OF bin Pw 1 PERE OF BIT :
ret known. not mn
: MATiowaLity aT pia (0. Suestcutnt ciTizensniPa H
Vedas none : i
( [lor Paesenr aestoence (evar resramee a aeceaneay ~ |
: rot Imown i
© [Section x GUILD REN ° i
4 + i
FULL wane PLace oF o1mtH NATIONAL ETY AY gintne :
: : i
: : i
H }
H |
: ‘ : H

; L

© [section xr
1 FULL NAME,
Alberto 0%
3+ SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS
zone

FATHER
Puace oF binya  WATTONAL UTY AT are
Ean dose, -osta Rica Costa stiean

StnT RESTOENCE
S@ceas:a 13 Sctod-s 292

fe. vean or orem
TRO Laaiza 1297
‘OccuPATION
shoonaler

_ efSection xt MOTHER
i FULL wane 20VEanor oiam [>> PUACE OF avaTH : 7
1899 San Jose, Sosta Ried Cesta ican’

le. occuration
housewife

 Nesceased 19 Septenber 1956



‘BROTHERS AND SISTERS.

Year
7 [oF aiem

PLACE OF 1

WATLONALITY AT or Te®

irgentina COADU-Caldert

addrese)
ario

Isabel C2ALERO ce

aAzdruvel CORE?

# Norma CORDERO de-2
may be naturalized
© [section xiv

RO-Calderon X

Fsyastquent CITIZENSHIPS WELD GY Any BROTHER OR SuSTER (Iden

PERO-Calderon =X 1923

did x 1929

Soon |X s(1932
» citizen - residi

1 Jose,

San Jose,
at 189

Rica Cesta

Mea Costa

Costa

Costali

y Pt. Fass.

her, present

ica

ca

ica

Hiea

RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANGES AND CONTACTS

lone

1, WAMES OF RELATIVES IN AY GOVERMENT SERVICE: IWDICATE NAME OF GOVERNMENTS AND POSITIONS HELO™

sisters ~ see Section ATI

RELATIVES, FHICNDS, CORRESPONDENTS IN U,a, (Explain relational

see Section 2

WATURALIZATION OF CLOSE RELATIVES IN U.S. (Give name, date, city and nu

ate araatedy

(SES. TELECOOES AND RELATIONSHIP OF ALL PERSONS KNOWN 10 BE CONNECTED IN ANY. WAY WITH ANT

© [section xv

PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS

ts LIST CLOSE ASSOCIATES,

TOusLS OR GROUPS

© [section xvi

WISCELLAMEOUS:

‘SuewATURE



1957
1957-1956
1983
1958
1oKsBa1sss
1959-1960

‘1960-present Tenn

(3-2 visa is
ec on 3 ari.

Unemployed

Salon BIRDALTA

Unemloyed

Student at “alfred Acadeny;
Glamour Cuts

Ciro's Joffiuros

Jace:

wed at fan J
11357, Port of-':

# The Gates vere taken from passnort travel.

“gear

ebual

an

Florida).

avana, Cuba

San cose, Coste

10 vain St., Giney, Mass.

co City, }

189 Hein St., uincy, Mass.

hew York
“York
rk City
York City

rgess Ave.
Alexandris, Virginia

4



h rte tere ene eonrennnte emi ee nena ne eect ae ateieahabtasasessasnenee
a)

‘Del- le Fi? F/

April 15, 1960
Chief, WH/3/Mexico

14-0000





4



5.

lpevieia fanatics sat runnirt ninemsn rnncenanntnen 35

a


e
a



a



&


j
t
“FF i i
15 March 1960 |
[ 2 t
: 1
7
| eae
| ! it
t URNORAWINM TORe FD/38A8 jelly
i eee
i FIOM + Chief, win |
‘oe suateeT 1 Harald 3. KAR (pa) | I
Career Agent | :
: j
{
1 4 i
H 2, Harold & SODA left textes Chty on 12 taroh 1G for ae
i PCS sssignzent at Readquerters. He arrived in Hastington, [Ce | |
on 12 Harehy : co r
: ial 2. It ip requasted tut NOLHAIR's complete salary bo deposited |
| : to his bank asccunt, i
i
iesctosticasttt Distribution: : baactesteteac
. Ordge &2 = Addressee 3: mee eee al



petecwone

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ~ =

TDATE__« 10 vAR 60 | S$-E-C-R-E-T

5

:TO 1 DIRECTOR L :
MAR 11 02092 60

“FROM 4 MEXICO CITY
i .
FACTION: C/WH 2 (MR HEYH, WH DIV NOTIFIED 2150 10 MAR 60)

‘INFO 4 cop, C/ccD 2, C/cl, s/c 2 PRIORITY

IN 11770

INFO fae MEX! 5269

pre DIR

RE MEX! 5261 (IN 10787)#* : LY 32 37or Gail j
ty

1. NOEMAYR AND FAMILY ETA WASH 12 MARCH VIA AMERICAN AIRLINES FLIGHT: 380°

2. ASSUME COVER BACKSTOPPED PER REF REQUEST. SUGGEST BE COVERED FOR

EITHER CABLE OR TELEPHONE REQUEST SINCE FLIGHT FROM MEX! DIRECT TO DALLAS
WHERE CONNECTS 380. QUESTION SOLVENCY MAY ARISE DALLAS SITE OF COVER

;

i WILL CALL BYNAM AT HOME ON ARRIVAL. §O RESERVATIOIS NECESSARY. . 4
: 7

|.

f

|

COMPANY. = aa
eee END OF HESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES... : : '

**STATED NEED ASSURANCE COVER WILL BE BACKSTOPPED IF NOEMAYR REQUIRED CABLE
COVER ADDRESS TO VERIFY EMPLOYMENT AND SOLVENCY.

THe hiarh O38”

me - rr

oS ae

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.
: :



UNIT © 1/37;
ExT 1 2555
DAIE! JO Rurcy sean sititesssniniontg

YO § yExICO GIES

t
{
i:
b

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: cf 2

INFO. cop, c/cco 2, C/Ci, S/F z

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

INFO CITE Dik 1

WED

REF: MERI 5262 (IN 10787) *

AD FALILY TO FROCSED DIRGCTLY WASH. TRAVORD 262-60.

i
BACKSTOP EB’ FLOLSENT AND SOLVENCY, : : j
2... AME RESERVATIONS DESTHED?, TOW ARRIVAL WASH CALL SR. HEYN EL 65243, i

ED OF $SSsick

Copfic/R, BILADRAU (BY PHONE!
fc: ws (er ) Dor le rir”
wmfper___

COORDINATING CPPICERS

iy a Sota
W.DARUGREN, C/WH/3
AUTUENTICATING OFFICER” ~y,

RR bvar Geir

C. KEG, C/D* 2}
RELEASING OFFICER f SECRET?

: Seated COoRDTUTIONS:
| wet B : (0 hearch 63
3
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.”

yee



— > cuassieo Message, — y)
; DATE : es : ee | L SUING zi
ATES 2 MAR SxE-C-R-E-T u aa é
TO 4 — DIRECTOR R=
FROM HEXTCR CITY wan 9 06532 60 |
: AcTION : <_CAWH 2 : :
INFO. © COP, C/cl, S/c2 * Fourie
In 10787 :
Fe. DIR INFO CHE vex 5261 i :

RE MEX! 5206 (IN 46565) **
1, NOEMAYR CAR SOLD 2 MARCH FOR 680 DOLLARS HIGHEST PRICE FINALLY OBTAINABLE.
POUCHING FULL REPORT. _,,,H 37° ae
2. TENTATIVE ETD NOEMAYR AND FAMILY NOW 11 TO 13 MARCH. ADVISE PRIORITY
DESTINATION DESIRED. ASSUWE WASH BUT WISH CONFIRM.
“2, ALSO NEED ASSURANCE COVER WILL BE BACKSTOPPED IF NOEMAYR REQUIRED CABLE
COVER ADDRESS TO VERIFY EMPLOYMENT AND SOLVENCY. ODACID REP MEX! SUGGESTED HE

j
t
i

BE PREPARED SUPPLY SUCH PROOF IF CALLED FOR, me !
: END OF MESSAGE : ;

C/S COMMENT: “DISSEMINATION SAME AS REFERENCED CABLE.

: **STATED THAT NOEMAYR'S ETD WAS DEPENDENT -ON SALE OF CAR.

Dor lerrri™

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. Copy No.


RSUTING

INO + cop, C/cco 2, eet, oD/s, Sa, D/oP, “0s 2, S/c-2
i

te DIR FO HEXI 5153

REFS: A. DIR Thoot (ouT 9th70)*

: + HMA 163 gsi 43 feats
DERESSITIZED : . ‘ :
1+ NOEMAVR LOST PASSPORT SOMETIME DURING WEEK ENDING 13 FEB. AFTER THOROUGH
: SEARCH FAILED DISCLOSE REPORTED LOSS EMB AND ON ENB ADVICE TO MEXI SECRET SERVICE
Hi SIGNED AFFADAVIT RE LOSS AT EMB AND EMB REQUESTING DUPLICATE URGERT BASIS.

ESTIMATE DUPLICATE WILL &E APPROVED APPROX THREE WEEKS,
WITHOUT INVOLVING STATION.

REQUEST HANDLED NOEMAYR

7
i:
boo

2. DUR DELAY ARRIVAL NOEMAYR REPLACEMENT AND STATION ‘STRONG FEELING NOEMAYR

DEPARTURE SHOULD NOT BE POSTPONED FURTHER STATION PLANNING USE OLIVER Q,

WIMPEN
AS CUTOUT CP OPS PENDING ARRIVAL REPLACEMENT.

REQUEST WIMPEN CLEARANCE BE

AMENDED IF NECESSARY To ALLOW USE AS INDICATED. ADVISE PRIORITY. WIMPEN To

BE MOVED EVENTUALLY FROM LIERST AND USED SOLELY CP ops. *

END OF MESSAGE ‘
C/S COMMENT: *HQS STATED NOEMAYR NEW ASSIGNMENT NOT YET FIRM.

/

2 pe
ae
AIT Fak 60, -

ao/-/6F FLL"
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED, ‘Copy No.



Mr. Harold K. Noomayr

| Dear Mr. Noempyrt

Hy .

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Covernment,

jae represented by the Contracting Cificer, effective | June 1957, ao amended.
ie &

Effective 13 Fobruary 1560 said contract, as amended, ta farther amended
| by adding after oubparagraph (c) of paragraph four (4) entitled “Allowances
the following:

(a) You will be entitled to a home service transfer allowance in conform-
i ance with applicable Governmont regulations."

All othor terms and conditiona cf the contract, ac ainended, remain in full
force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY. [3
Contracting Cilicer

1S Fea. Go. ;
let FEE EER



j is
i
: ‘ ao ! t
a : me seca
i : igen cccne Hy
! UWOEINA ye | |
| | :
|
i !
| \ i
15 February 1960 : i
MGMAPANCGM FIR: Chicf, Contract Personnel Division !

SUBJECT: . * Harold Re ‘KAYR (ps)

It Le requested that the contract for Harold R. NIEMAYR,
Caroer igent, be amended to include a “done Service Transfer

Allovance.®

ce : h : Je Ce King
fe vas : cele ts an: Chief, KHD

* WH/3 Yexico/CZehrung:_m

i oi. V+ Distributh
pl. oy +” 2 = Addressee
aa _ 1 - WH/3/Mexico ©
1 ~ Subject

= Qop- 16 fF

gee



a}

10. February 1960

7

‘THE, RECORD:
NOEMAYR ig a Career Agent in Mexico City on Project LIEDCE. According

@ Charlotte Zehrung he is to depart Mexico City for igs upon the arrival
of HEGAPTY. HEGARTY is scheduled for a medical release about 27 Feb 60

and should arrive in Mexico abaét 20 March. After a few weeks overlap,

NOEYAYR should depart for Hqs about 1 April 60, ready to go to work.”
According to Charlotte he prefers to take no home leave.

Apparently Mr. Gomez has been working with the Covert Training seople
jin an attempt to place him in that type of activity in a cover status.

Per Col. King on 10 Feb Covert Training indicated that they had no int:

in subject and Col. King requested the above information for usa in his

* contact with Col. Baird in a further attempt to place NOZMAYR with OTR.

AID

( “Bowers:
-

Dot 165881

i
!
i
i
{
i



* FROM & Chief, WHD “

. without boing able to mingle freely with Americms he needs to return

* @ part of their education in the Statea.

SECRET : te

HEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, OTR

SUBJECT Herold R. XOSMAYR (pe)

1. Roference is made. to our telephone conversation on 10 February
1960 reparding the possible use by your office of Subject. Attached
for your informetion are soms facts concemming his personal md opera-
tdonal buckground.

2. NOEMAYR has successfully worked for KUBARK under deep cover
for eleven consecutive years. All operations officers handling sub-
Ject ond his training officers at Headquarters have comended his
operational capability and achieverints. Ho received an official
Lrcadatisnbene from the agency for hia work in Cuba.

~ 3, 8H Division has several notives for wlahing to bring: NOBMATR

‘to Headquarters for a tour of duty.
a) After having lived and vorked for 60 long under deep cover

to the United States for mental and physical reaijusteents for hinself
end his familys Tho fact that hig wife hxe not been able to beoons an
American citizen and that his children havo not had an opportunity to
lives in the Stetes hee been of understandable increasing concern to
NOEMAYR. ‘This, combined with the otress of his double lifo required
by his desp cover position und his non-association with anyone except i
his Cease Officer with whom he can. discugs his work and. problons.has i
been making him increasingly more tense during the last year or tio. .
WORPAYR is an extremely capable Operations Officer and ti Division
earnestly believes that it is KUBARK's responsibility to bring this
man and his family to tho United States for two years. Your coopar- -.- ee
ation in this effort is being sought. =

‘b) FOEMAYR, even though he has received Headquarters covert
“treining, still neads to be closely associated with Headquarters for
@ tour to acquire additional background on operational techniquss and
approaches and to be exposed to Headquarters’ activity and thinking.
‘This exverience 4s requisite to making a vell-rounded intelligence
operator out of NOEMAIR and will certainly affect his future useful-
ness to KUSARK.

¢) A Headquarters tour will onable NOEMAYR's wife to becom
@ United States citizon and permit his children to receive,at least,

SBCRET



SBCRET

- 2.

4. WH Division plans to bring NOSMAIR to the States the ond of
March 1960 in his capacity of a Careor Agent. At that tins cover
will be arranged for hin vhich will be consistent with his Keade
quarters assignmnt. Appropriate cover will ba decided upon only
after consultstion with your office if you decide to use RUEMAYR.

5. As eo Career Agent, NOEMAYR will continue to be funded under
LISTG3, his present project. All funds required to support NOEMAYR
and his activity will be charged to this project arainst the WH Divie
eo sion ellotmant. In addition, WH Division will handle all aduinistra=
tive problems comected with JOEMAY, such as renewal of the project,
i after coordinating such action
: itt: your offics.

6, WH Division has confidences in NOZMAYR
of velus to OF2 in its training progras. Tha
glad to work closely with you in the handling of NOEMAYR 4 you so
desire. KOZMAYR is enthusiastic about his iapanding Headquarters as=
signasnt and is anxious to etart work immediately upon return to the

“* | United States. :

\ Te If you decire any edditional information on NOBMAYR, I will
be happy to make it available on roquect.



i

SECRET
Ie PERSONAL

NGEMAYR was barn on 20 Jung 1922 in De Kalb, Illinois. Re had
five yesre experience in Ganeral Air Force intelligence work. He was
discharged fron ‘the Air Force on 18 February 1949. He attendad tha
University of Costa Rica for threo yoarsthen trensforred to the
University of Habana. NUZMAYR speaks fluent Spanish.

Ho saa married to Argentina CORDERO of San Jose, Costa Rica, on
17 Dacenher 1945. His wife hopes to obtain her U. S. citisenship
when HOEMAYR is transferred RS to the United States. Thay have tyo

children.



"provide hin with monthly income. When Subject retems to the Us:Se,

_ ing @ new, backestopped cover which can be used during his tour here.

SSCRET

III. CONTRACT . ae,

NOZHAYR was first placed under contract by KUBARK on 1 June 1949.

Be ip now under contract es a Career Agent. He is a CS-12.

IV. COVER

|
i
i

WOEMAYR 1s operating under a notional cover. He supposedly was
sent by the "Public Surveys Institute" of Pallas, axes, into Hoxico
to investigate the prospects of establishing a Mexican affiliate. ti
oupplenents his incoxs by free-lance writing. Ho actually has had
articles published in Bohonia and Boys Life. Subject can ehow these
articles to support his cover. Oa one operational trip ha took photo=
erephe which eppeored in the Hey York Tines end the You York Dally

Hirror. To further cover his sources of incoms HOZMAYR has let it be
‘mown that he oms property in Costa Rica oad in Cuba and that rentals

‘WH Division will request Cover Division to assist NOEMAYR in establish-

Vv. TRAINING

WORM received covert truining at Headquarters during October
and Deconbor 1953 in all phases of basic tradecraft. Ho was rated
” above average by all three of his instructors. 7
ROEMAYR was given additional covert training in May 1958.

“SECRET



SECRET
-3-

VI. OPRRATIONAL BACKOROURD : ae

In carly 1953 bo was transferred to the PESUCCESS Project with

additional éuties |
In 1954 ho transferred to Cuba
went under cover as a studant aince he hed ene more year of academia” |

work to finish in order to receive a BeA. in Economics. In Cube ns
vorked on ponstration of the Communist targets at, ths University of
* Habana. During the sams period he was also in contact with subvore

sive oppositionist elemonta. : : oer 7
In Hay, 1987, Chief CI/ICD recommended that HOBMAYR be considered
"for spot assignnonts of making recruitaent pitehes throughout Latin
Amarica to CP targete, This recoiondation wes nade efter Mr. Paul
. Burke, Neputy Chief CI/ICD, had an informal discussion with KOSMAYR
"on 9 May on this subject. Mr. Burke bolisved NODA would be on

effective recruiter and NOSMAYR expressed an interest in such essign-
mente.

“SECRET


i . SECRET?
| vt
|

In May, 1958, he volunteered to go to the rebol countein hoed=
quextera of Castro, in Cuba, to obtain information for KUBARK. He
received a commendation for his work during this special assignment.

HOEML Yi was transforred to Hexico on 7 Juno 1958 where he has

been hendling Cormmist Party penstration agents end inferzanta.

He spent Jenuary 1959 in Cubs on a TDY assignment eimilar to that
! he undertook in Karch or 195%, end for which he received his commends=
| thea, : :

'

{ i

| VIX. GOTSTANDING PERFORMANCE AND COMMENDATIONS
1

i

SBCRE®



7 : i ‘i SECRET |
eee ei

In May 1959 HOSMAYR was awarded a monstery bonus of $300.00 in
rocogrition of his outstanding services on behalf of KUBARK in the
Sierra Meestra sree during the early part of 1958. For his outotand=
ing performance on this assignnent and his grost dsvotdan to duty,
FKORHAYR received a personal commendation from General Cabell. In

early January 1956 HOEMAYR volunteered to undertake a ndouton to cone
tact Cuban retal loader Fidel Castro in tho Sierra Haestra noutaine
"tn Southosstern Cube. Ho spent! opproxinetely thres wee in the mova
tain hideout of Castro's headquarters during which time he even joined 4 i
thom in an octual attack on the town af Manem illo, :



4
few 8 eee
1

|i” CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ae

bebe

TO + DIRECDR
FROM WEXICO CITY
ACTION: 5

INFO 4 s/t 2

1H 31564

id DIR we vex! 4993 i
fava REPL MERE G83 (IN 26097)@ : I.
: 1 ROZMAYA WISHES ESGIN WORK NEW ASOICSENT IMVEDIATELY UPON ARRIVAL, i
NO LEAVE PLANS. cS i
i G. REQUEST INFO RE REXT ASSIGNMENT GINCE HE HAS CHILDRENS SCHOOLING TO i
CONBIDER, ‘ee : i
J. TWO WEEK KINI OVERLAP WITH HEGARTY REQUIRED MERI, i

i
i ENO OF MrgeAce i tee
| C/8 COMMENT) HEX! CONCURRED PROPOSAL HEGARTY AS NOCHAYR REPLACEME YTS. WOULD aie
le WISE LEAVE PLANS ROWHAYR ON M15 RETURN 7 JAN FROM PERSONAL BUS IhESS THIF f
| GANU:-TO SELL HOUSE. CEPARTEO MEX! FOR SANU 1 VAN. - : 1
{ 4 _

Replacemen (HECARTT) ETA 2 FES

1

i j
Sicnisi : which woud mht NoEMAYR ETA AS ted
| ; ; ee
t

GA VMARCH Cd,

a “er

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED,



Hom
ACHON 5 ;

mos CCD 2, OP 2, S/e 2, on/s, soa

0 bik. ar Say

Hi : Tet COMOUR FROPOZAL HEGARTY AS

2. WILL ASVISE LEAVE: "PLANS. Ne

BUSINESS TRIP SANU TD SELL HOUSE...

¢/S coment:

RODUCTIO!

"Re: Dir 08383 (our 78527) ¢ (NOT Set sans)

| END OF MESease

*HQS PROPOSED HEGARTY AS NOcMAYE REPLACEMENT.

IN BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING. OFFICE !5 PI

HOCMAYK REPLACEMENT,
MAYO ON HIS RETURN 7 VARUARY F ROW PERSONAL, =

ORPARTLE MEX FOR SARU 1 JANUARY,



ee * bo2/st/up/up ih
ORG - Sens

; UNO Mita Axaco

Det

"MO: CCD 2, OP 2, S/c 2

imi moposes FRANOLS. 2; Boney a9 dorum REPLACE ENT, . vim
‘DROENT' SURGERY. reRPOEDED a

POINT ms aL rs anor 35 wn, Regime: |
STATION CoNcoRaRCR,..



te | i u

DISPATCH

FROM feat
Ohiet of Htettce, Say Joc§

Opsrational/ifeld Traces
CCRDERO Calderon Fantly

Carer er a

GING CAN BE JUDGED
tiene; for information only br Guaureo ma. DeSe OMA
ERS-He 1730

same

RE ed — (CHECE OND)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING @EOUIRED

eee

2. Field traces rovoal the folloving on the CORDERO Caldsron family:

@) [sdericg wa bern on 29 Karch 1912, has toon living in 7ennaa
fer ssvoral years, and is currently explored at tho Unica Club
in Ferema City; ;

b) Antonie hed beon living for arvera) years in the Paeifie Banana
ious city of wopes, Coste Rice. Recently, he waa placed in Jail
in Sen Juan de Tibas (a suburb of San Jose, on a charge of robbery;

¢) parte vas bern im San JosS on 7 February 1920 and vasa ailitant
eozsusist prier te and during tha’ 1948 Cesta Kican Revolutions
4ftor tho revolutica, ho lofe the Party valunt:-ily, bat was re-
ported to have boon activoly syupathotie tomrds casunias for tho’
fast ten yeara. Another coureo rop:rted thie month that varie is,
fisttea regulerly by coxaunisis, who leave printed. propaganda with

4) Aedruve) was bara tn Son Joss on 12 November 1928 and Le currently
, diving tm san Joob, eaployed ap a choamior jn a chop owed by a
Coumnirt. Ho is re;orted to be symsathetie to eoczunisn;

0) Anreds Are: was bern in San Jeso o2 15 March 1925, nov living
an Yaxico vith hor kusbond vho 1s a PBR citizen. Thay ovm a
housw in Ses Joes, in vbich Yarle (soe @. above) now lives;

i
i
k
i
|

f) wag born ia fan Joc$ on 27 Fobruery 1923, to married (coman
i day; tea Spantart, ond tsa resided in Spain for zany years;

8) Gonsyale fe Living in tw York City, working in a beauty parlor;
There ere no available treces on Soma or °

2. Dinerepancies will be noted on the vital statistics as opposed to
those in reference; Costa Rican Civil Registry filos are. the Ztation's
Sources. The Rogistry hed no filo on either horea er Isobel, Station *
feo, inquiries to Station assets, and an investigation ecndusted by
HUBURBOT eccounted for the narrative portions of the treeoo, Tho
above traces include all of the information available to ths Stations

Floyd Be Ainonet
Pistritution - *
2-Files 7
FHAstef
ole ie ETT
woo 3 S-E0RR-7 [feos |



DISPATCH

bore TS

BMIA-TO7N,

29 dy 1979

Be EEO deated any beculedge ef-a penstentien atterpay ox!
\ positica, &% em epsratinnal usetizg ulth tho projadt. cues efficcr later. .

“Ue & 06 operations! azsting'en 8 duly 1999, GEVSDIR/D Geld EPSEAMAY. that he»
"- ue stare ef the efforte of Harte C2080 Calderon to pwamter the FIT, > =
Presumably os ODOM bebal’, Hithest enkting fer eo reply, ISMANOLi/3 than

Plended wlth WUSEASAY to stop these oferta fer tha falloving reacovat

°) ville bandied by EORLYR cdveral youre ogcy EDUEDIIY) often bed

+ Ssald bo cxtertainrd ty Marae wifo asd mthenie-lew ostil _
BOTHATA's arrival for ths seating, OTCNOID/) bas harbored a
Gevp Foor far yearo that Sabjoes (BUTNATA'e bretasraio-lov)
Bight have asea MUMALOLEY$ eator cr Lcave the eoctley atte,

GP that ECDEIR’s wife, o Gaeta Rican milemal, aigat have

(wittsegly er ctharvico) exposed EEMETTEYS to ber brsthers

b) UHAKO1:/3 who knows CORUIED parecaally, éléims tha’ Coa.¢0
wee pretadly a poor choles fora party pecotration, eisee bo
tao knows ta be actively crepathetia to the PvP fer the past...
ten yeers, In afditien, EEUSOLYS doubted thst COADEND bid
the pecsseary quilifications of imtelitgerss aad dicerution to
porters ia the copackty ef 6 pesetsaticn aguzts:

t £ eecuPes
that Go aciien vould over bo token 8 endian ERUASOIR3%6

éexp
Of cles eusernisg COAG), and tootfally adele’ agutims CURES etry,
42 At ware within the Statica’s okility, - ;

&e AS @ contest os 23 Saly 1959, EGER set ap 0 eoatast sles, and Lomtrested
GRIER fa the Mbation's vishes, COSI assosted without questiem and
, Bostiag vith the Stctéan bas. bean E



035/€R/CaT/CwT/CwT

part. V4 JULY 1959.

‘yo + DIRECTOR
+ FROM =~ SAN JOSE

Jat 1

REGS os

WH 5)

‘woo 18/2

cH SANS 3428

Gestnaseesaseniapeetssu ease
10 PRITY MEX|
RE: MEXt 4183 (IN 37896 )*

NCEMAYR AND FAMILY RETURNING MEXI 14 JULY VIA LACSA.
———
END OF MESSAGE | .

CS COMMENT: “REQUESTED ETA NOEMAYR.

ane
Dor-16 #971,

Copy No.

eo



1.

*DIRECIOR

FROM SAN JOSE
ACTION: WH "5

| wo cop, cop 2, 00/S, SSA, C/MS-2, MS, OP 2, S/c 2 ROUTINE
1 : : i:
H ey

i 7. ext NO oR

a REF MEXI 4193 (IN 3196 YPSANS 3425 (IN 38658 ) «@

STE SANS 3427

fe oe i
NOEMAYR RETURNED SANJ 8 JULY, ENTIRE FAMILY CONFINED BED “™ :
SERIOUSLY ILL WITH FLU. EPIDEMIC SPREADING THRU CR. WILL
ADVISE WHEN SUBJ PLANS RETURN MEXI,
END OF MESSAGE

" C/S COMMENT: REQUESTED NOEMAYR'S ETA, ”

SENOEMAYR AND FAMILY WERE IN PACY, BUT EXPECTED TO ARRIVE SANJ VERY SOON,

“Dope le 0 fT)

CRET
é REPRODUCTION BY. OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. ‘Copy Neo.

:
f
pe
ig
i



a

Sree cone et ~ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
: 372/KM/uP/HPY

ROUTING

gare 7 Jul 59.

TO + DIRECTOR
FROM = MEXICO CITY

30 SAN wo DIR cH wEXT tos
} REQUEST ETA NOEMAYR.

i —

iB

ard eee Dope Je 0 4T1

REPRODUCTION BY, OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.



00 if

SECRET

30 June 1959 par

MEMORANDUM FoR: WR/TII/Mexieo — ag ee,
SUBJECT: Ross Lester CROZIER _

1. Reference is made to your request to this office dated

2. The reply to your request 1s contaired in the attached
pemurandum from the Office of Security dated

Chief, CI/0A

dof. /675 FI

S85! 389 ute paevious corriom. SECRET a

“pen nserenntanenenmntnrinete centaur n,

i



E S-E-C-2-Z-T
oe (When Pilled In)

29 JUN i955

i
5
i
t

| MEMORANDUM POR: Chief, CI/OA

FROM. : Deputy Director of Security (Investigations
and Support)
SUBJECT :  G-25507
#269

1. Referonce is mado to a mezorandum dated 17 April 1958 from ;
WH Divieton. through CI/OA requesting that the Covert Security Approval :
granted on 3 July 1957 be amended to permit Subject's utilisation as ‘
@ career agent in Mexico City under Project LISDOE, ~ ‘

This will confira the verbal Covert Security Approval granted
to Mr. Larry Sule, WH Division on 3 June 1958 for the use described
above)

4

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth is Clandestine
Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instructicn -
Field No. 10-5, a covert security approval is granted for the use of
the Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,
above. :

3. Subjects of covert security approvals are not to represent
themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

_ 4. Your attention is called to the fact that a covert’ security
approval does not constitute cazplete compliance vith. the provisions
of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore, if you should desire at a later
@ate to change the status or use of this individual, a request for
approval to cover any proposed change should be subaitted to this
office.

: “5, ‘this approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's
. services are not utilized within six months of the date of this
memorandun.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Seed Henke

8-E-C-R-E-T ae

Ren Sr eleving inte a aitaiy tes ene nl era etait henselae actin acid Rent

pyeiitat cineca mnet

greee


a

7 i
2 3 =
3 é I:

JUN 16 03822 59 i.

L -SeEeCeReE=T |

ROUT ENE

ma
IN 2ghk7

| j
; ~ i
i (Priority) saNy NYO oR - cre ext hor] i
i 1, NOEMAYR AND FAMILY DEPARTED MEX! FOR SAN 14 JUNE BY LACSA. i
j hccrceenaitl :
! 2. WHLL PHONE COS SANJ USING NAME ROGER. ; be

END OF MESSAGE

Dor “eect
THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Ho.

REPRODUCT! TON BY. or HER T

Wo i arn aati RR BE



i

~CLASSIFIED_MESSAGE

io. DtRESTOR :
HOM + SAN JOSE eee, mek
LATION. 5 Mite ey windnint — 2 REC'D CABLE SECT.

Q

NFO ' C1, Ct/oPs, Cct/oa, s/c 2

: Nowe ne
a,

Ww H/ ada

a . cite

DIR MEXI : : SANJ 3375

IN 23195

REF MEX! 3931 (IN21594 © )

- fd
aj [6 VCE
RO) [9 EL

SANJ CONCURS WITH REF PLAN.

q
iv

C/S COMMENT: © REQUESTED HQS APPROVAL NOEMAYR AND FAMILY GO SANJ SOONEST.

Pan
, "END OF MESSAGE?
. uae on : ; i *

ROUTING

RUAN

INITIAL

v7

: 30 qlerrri”
nat 1389 “5Ronucrone BY OTHER THAN THE" SURE “OFFICE 1s PROHIBITED,



663 es/ars ("I~ _cuassisitD MESSAGE ~ if isi esr

7 ORIG) FOUTING : : ee

2 ONT WHD Cane [ SECRET 7 ; Ta 5 7

5 OT = 255s : + po ae

& DATE: 27 MAY 1999 13 ifisesdisgl Cl Gana : i

fit { { 1H 7

| 70 wgxico orrz it ower Hat 27 a i ee i

| prom: DIRECTOR é | |nourne | .20"D GABLE SECT. Heaie

5 : : 34 = sag — aie boos
- £ CONF: WHOS if “t i

: i errr |

F info: e1y>Ci/ops, ci/tc, ci/oa, s/c 2 lf mame | i
a | QUT. ,58618 fae

i ios) a |

1O wert INFO gang cite om 28252 |
iit 28397 ft

f& RERE HEIIA39OL (BI ASS) Mica

i 18 CONCURS PROPOSED RECRUITMENT PITCH AND THAVEL REF. 5 1

END OF MESSAGE

4SIHD COIENT: SUGGEST NOEMAYR BB AUTHORIZED ATTEMPT RECRUITMENT OF BROTHER-IN-LAW, : alee
TNACTIVE COSTA RICAN CP MENIBER, [04 CARETAKER OF NOEMAYR HOUSE IN SAN JOSE. ql
NOEMAYR #D PASTLY SERS THA  SANJ FOR PERSONAL #EASOUS OF 14 JUNE. .

COORDINATE USTH
unfoa/s_-- De/-/erxrrs
CI/Icp/R. WILLIANSON (BY Px0:3) aa

i) ro) oe
A Gi oon Day
0 a xx'e, cAt RE. aamazen® of eH/TaE

i a ceoupmatine
auecormsces > - -[o-§ BORE T | yrntntestine orice
> REPRODUCTION BY GTHER THAN THE ISSUING. OFFICE 15 PROHIBITED. Copy No.



Score fecctaacs
595 £8/008 to? "CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
Bare 26 MAY 59 | SeE-C-R-E=T

TO DIRECTOR

+ FROM : MEXICO CITY HE Filing teen exe:

No CS keecerd Vator, Pesteay.

ACTION? WH 5

Nees reygied

“INFO + C1, CI/OPS, Ci/oa, sfo2 “ERE

aaa bets |
oa :
1® 21594 te i

Toi Sana ie STE MEXE 3931
|
(WARE ACTING) !
RE A, HMMA 12436 |
B, HRSW 1705 |
i

2. HRSA 3915

1, RE PARA 2 REF ee PROBLOX. REQUEST HOS :
. CONCURRENCE. |

2. QUE LEGAL ACTION REQUIRED FOR NOEMAYR ‘ane HOUSE. ‘SANJ, HIS PRESENCE
NECESSARY SANJ OURING NEXT MONTH. HE _ FAMILY wite ALSO UTILIZE TRIP THERE TO
RENEW TOURIST STATUS WHICH ABOUT TO prea oe STAKE ‘TWO OR THREE WEEKS LEAVE. IF

: RECRUITMENT PITCH AGREED TRIP WOULD. Saude EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY IPLEMOT OPW.
UNDER DESIRABLE COVER CONDITIONS. eae?

3. NOEMAYR AND FAMILY ETD FOR SANJ 14 JUNE. REQUEST APPROVAL HQS SANJ
e
SOONEST. TRAVEL babel cer IN PROJECT LIEDGE,
END OF MESSAGE

QUEL | yo

Pole lest:
CopyNe, an



Wx =
sua exrcontcos We/A \ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

i 7 ie

3 UNIT =’ WHD SECRET 1 4 g
; OT + 2555 fe
| onres 29° APRIL 1959 it at

| 10 - wextco enry oereereo! Apa 25 22 17 299

"D CABLE SECT. ;

ROUTINE {
TAS 7 H
i
i

omanes

; From: DIRECTOR

recy

maze

OPERATIONAL f

Info: OP 2, S/C 2 IMMEDIATE
lulicigen

}

i

] CONF, WHOS
i

j

ito INFO CITE DIR i
ae 24246 '
: REF: NEXT 3786 2h2h6 ae
if ‘ i
i E att
j REF QUARTERS BENEFITS NtZD NOT BE INCLUDED CONTRACT. CUNTRACT : i
i i |
! STATES QUARTENS IN ACCORDANCS GOVT REGS, COS IAS AUTMORITY GRANT FOR a t
} : {
i CAREER AGENT, i
i : END OF HESSAGE
i
; WH CQA‘ENT: : :
i REQUEST HS AMEND PARA 4 NOZ‘AYR CONTRACT,

*(iN 10562)
t
'
ee de ES tee . : Dole 160 8) ye

GFPZiorag a

VV mr a eusteuieeeiaens RYDE ape

| FFs, PLP S Roblne DAULG IRS oC /0B ALI
z

| REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.. Copy No.

grou



016 es/ossfurt[an —~ CLASSIFIED N
!

1 29 APR 59 S-E-C-R-E-T

+ DIRECTOR

+ MEXICO CITY :
APR 29 03412 59

WHOS

heh | “ROUTINE.
| IN 10582 ° i
5 i
DIR rz) ce ext 3706
{
(WARE ACTING) i
|
RE HOMS 726 :
REQUEST HQS AMEND PARA 1 HAROLD R. NOEMAYR ‘CONTRACT PERMIT FR 15-1050 : i
pee \
BENEFITS RETROACTIVE TO 1 AUGUST 1958. G4.
END OF MESSAGE : tf

4

! a ae
: 5 oa 2 yb :
ee :
AIIEIESIa : ay ;
q [ S-E-C-R-E-T wor lot erty

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROMIBITED. - Copy ita :
dea tiles : , i.
[pee ane cibuasaaaan aaaiesntpastongsasaaseteeedgeneseneeoseatatoneersesia/ornreer aELEETE



aa "i CASS CADON OMPAICH $8 aoe aro SD
DISPATCH pa nena - mae-sgs
Chief, UH Division eS
FROM 5 of a ae ee oF ips gHeeeae

= (enECR One)

2 408 HOEING

peree eee INDEFING CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUALIFIED HO. DESH Ont

See para 3.
cocoa :
1. Wee, dated 11 Juss 1953 cacreraene
B Bateti-7502, sted 13 Peurusry 1959 iar
3. Bite 7207, dated 6 March 1959



CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

— vst merous ton
BAT
ty 50 RSs ooo sue

Willard C. CURTIS



wes

year



Be



4

DISPATCH

Calef, & Division
Chief? of Station, Jan Joso

FROM
. Chie? of Station, Mexico City

nec

Proposed Vesta Rices CP Penetration

SEs neonate

acTION BFGUED

BY QUALE.ED HO, OFSK ONLY

RREOREE

2, As resorted in Reafquarters Piles, (CTuAYR's brother-in-law, sarie CORDERD
Calferon, costa Alzan, residing ia Soa Juaa Tibas, San Jose,“ Tcota Pica, wae onze a

monber of the costa Rican CP, Mario's first loyalty hed bean to the JALECIOTLIZA party,
but gince the latter vas allied with the CP, 6 great deal of resrustae:t had tate place |
within tks allegiassc. Kerio drifted fros op atlitany shortly after tho 1944 revolntioa|

2 Lf the organization sd desires, sl) the factors are praseat for the resrultaart

of Karis and rotura to IP militancy with @ low to nodi loval pexetoation es the
objective. These factors are as folic:

a. Herto CISDERO bas bee canstaker’ and therefore living in JGMAYE'o
howse in Coote Bisa for the past tyo yours. Om tw occasions during <isits
in 1956 av62957, YUSHAYR converved at suze leagth vith Mario soncoraing the
coeta Eisaa CP, Mario Indlaated very exphatically that be was disgusted with
then (party leeéers) because of the corruption.

b. Lotters received from Mario during ths past year have iadieated no
change So this attiteie. Marlo to extrecely gratoful to NUGATE for thie
period of susidence without paying reat. (Marlo is « akcemakar of buxbls
TERS).

3. MOFMAYE $@ resoonchly certain that Harlo COMER) wuld ecceyt auch an offar
asi could retum to CP militancy without securliy prodlecs. It ts believed that vith
@ Usittle guidssee and mantpuietion, Korte could becom = rwdiws level pevetration with

@ relatively abort tine. Vbile rot kaving are then an olenectary oc5c0l education,

Kerio is a stelta type. sinzere aad deteruiued in his ow wy. Osce satisfied that bo

could improve his lot hy this service, be would Jand a stenty and reliable service.

Willard Cc. coRzIs

Dot-le FHF

fe eral ane uss ALON [race no.



ses OSS sear vreanemenena nat eer ness tet eanaete neve evn wing nconennnenn en neeneensenneneean

- DISPATCH

Da-2-F19

DDN Fred AND NO

Chief, WH Division

ERDOATTERS HUE RO,

Chief of Station, Mexico City “

u

March 1959

Haread Re KO

im

Bea — (CHECE ONE)
WAREID Fox NDING,
HO INDEXING BEQUIFED

INDEXING CAN 8€ JUDGED
BY QUALIFED HO. DESK ONLY _

PK
PCK/eps
8 March 1959
Distribution:

3 Eos
2 - Files

Ie PEROT EDOM.

It 4g requested that the Station be sent a copy of the original contract for
Harold R. NOEHAYR and a copy of each snendment thereto.

c.

Do feete*

sagt WO.



DISPATCH

SaTO Rae I

BAP~723

pec ai a

tet, WB Divieton

Fran

eae a Bea:
i Ye MMH6-555

i, Attaubed, par HesAquartere inetrintions in reference B., are the required
Vecusnte frie Harelt Ry KEMAR aylying for relmoursesent for medical treateant
j TIEN by Die dependant daaguter. Thaea Loclute rora 1126, reseip's for payments
amis 421 @ statement from the attanding phyeicies us to the treatanm given. The
suvet tere stetenent merely indiseter thet be provided medical sare and a Diopay,
vittent delving tuto the uaturs of the Linas, bly Alvgnseis or sped! fic treatment,
Mre, SiUAYR was unable to obtain any furtuar declaration from the Figsioten end
securaty soneiderations provanted bar from becuming more damending oa this point.

Tf He: Squarters requires a more elaborate otatement, would it bo pamntesable
TK wo aartlfy ag to the alesing eqpecta from tha physician's atatenent?
4; wo other documsut of thia nature io avaliable. :

LN Ce

| Kit/ape i i

1) | -Attechpant + og etated above - recetpte 0/s/c

#30 March 1959 eek

Dissertation:
dn age watt
e+ Pline



STs Eor€ F SBLSE/ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

” g peynonns

onc, R.BEYNOLDS
tun. WH/TIL/CiRIB . aoe :
ext, 20: ‘
3 pare, 25 FEBRUARY 1959 H

Feeds 19 13259 :
ourne | #20'D CABLE SECT, I

X jk t
a ———— Bart
PRIORITY i

OPERATIONAL | MAS :
IMMEDIATE 2

to ; MEXICO CITY

FROM: CTOR 7

cond, WHS 3, .

tito» sie cuiors, FI, FL/OPS, PP 2, PP/PRO, PP/PROP 2,
sk

reer

OUT7SSS8
TO MEXIT nro HAVA CITE DIR HI 4183

RE MEXI 3392 (IN 22960)"

2. OW BASIS HAVA ALD ODEAVY REPORTS OW HoGza HS FERS LOT DipRoVE
HIS CHANCES SECURING CUB/i Account. ACCORDING ARYAIL, CUBAN CFFICLiL In
HGS AREA 20 FEBRUARY, Al ACCOUNT HAY GO TO EXTHAR OF Two FLIGS IN PEPRIME
WITH WHICH KUBARK HAS CONTACT AND ETHER OF NHICH WOULD SERVE ODYOKE INTERESTS
“BETTER THAN HOGAN.

2. HONEVER, IN EVENT HOGAN HEATS OUT OTHER CONTENUERS IT COULD BECOME meee
ADVANTAGEOUS HAVE KUBARKER IN HIS GROUP, DEPENDING ON NATURE OF ACCOUNT, THEREFORE/

NOKMAYR ATTEMPT KEEP JOB OFFER OFEN WITHOUT COMMITTING HIMSELF TO HOGAN: AND
THEREBY STRENGTHENING LATTER'S HAND WITH CUBANS. USE CAUTION IN TOUCHING ON :
WEAK ASPECTS NOEKAYR COVER STORY WHICH COULD BK CHECKED Ot BY HOGAN.

3. MICKEY IS GEORGE MICHAEL KAPFES, ABOUT 2h, U.S. CITIZEN WHO HAS y\

WORKED WITH HOGAN SINCE LATE i958
(END OF MESSAGE) pr rt ay
y°

‘WH Comment: *#Noemayr received letter dated 1 Feb from
Nosmayr for job with Don Hogan, who hopes to get’ major Public

relations contracts with 2,
|S secrets iat 4 zahcL LS. a)
, GOEL, NM Be Be Ee Wa

AEASING OFFICER S-E~CR-E-T AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

* REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE.IS PROHIBITED. a : ‘Copy No.
DSol- (6 TT)

‘exponen onceyareemen race



eh Or

SECRET
Chief, Wi Divisiol
¥Wi/TEI/texico
Cover Review ~ Harold Noenayr (P)

~

MEXORANGUL FCR:
ATTSHZICN :
SUBJECT

ee SF
Loe a
LEYS gs)
KOT!
Yea
OR
i
i i
‘a
Ca }

3

a
a {
i
i
i
i
|

}

geyrneentonne=



SECRET
-2

KS3

CCD Raty

SECRET

niguagiipienacnsneer——n

WeRA GEES

: a
are



———-

pa

INDEXING CAN FF 50680.
BY QUALINED HQ. DESK ONLY

l. In onsuer to your queries of reference, ve wish to direct sour
attention to FHB 20-620-1, dated 23 Moverber 1958, which provides infromation
ca overseas medical benefits evaileble from KUBARX. Thio new handdoos should
be af great heip in the future on questions of this nature es it sets forth
im one plece EUBARK provisions for eaployee and dependent medical benefite,
together with the procedures required.

@. Section 20 of the handbook specificolly siates that Career Agents,
4f they are full-tine employees and citizens.of PBPRIMR, may receive all
medical benefits available to Gtatf Eaployees. cction 3a also specifically
states that Career Agents, if they ore full-time exployces and citizens of
PBPRDS, are eligible to receive the benefite of the KUBARK dependent medical
progran. :

3. We eugzest that Subject forward to Heatqguirters recoipts for his
dependent wedical expenses, together witha statement fraa his physiciea
etteating to the nature of the ilinesd, ois diagnosis end treataent. Subject
should also execute Form No. 1126 as requested in Section Sa of the bandbook.
¥o will submit the claim to the Office of Personnel for their review and
deteraination of any allowable reLubursement.

D0/-/68 38f

peer.

USE pREVICUS fOMION. [ EERaaeS

A
{
i



14-0000 t

wre en) nbs; jb vr CLASSIFIED MESSAGE _

ct ROUTING,
pi bare 13 JAN 59

4
3

Dl ae ” Cath — |
ihe Gk SROT. i

ON: i

INR s/c2 ROUT INE
os : IN yang i

0 pRITY MEXI WO DIR Hava 9893
pat

] NOEMAYR ETD HAVA 13 JAN 1715 CMA 309. ETA MEX! 204g.

END OF MESSAGE

an Dos (688i

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHBITED. Copy No.

4



j 52h puc/a ya . _ CLASSIFIED_MESSACE
} onic: mUDOLPH R, GOMEZ Ei alia

UNIT: WH SECRET
fet 6081 ae OS
7_DATE | 10 JANUARY _1959 oe
to. BAVABA | '
} t
i eeom, DIRECTOR fF
3 . o
1. CONF, WH 5 7
t €
: wo, s/c 2 é
H
i 1
;70 HAVA into JH EX / CITE DIR O7814
:
\ REF: BAVA 0872 (IN 45998)
H APPROVED.
i
i END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: #STATED STA FELT NOEMAYR JOB COMPLETED. WOULD HAVE HIM RETURN MEX!
IF HQS. APPROVED. Cocmanamias

ben sus esa 7
Geen.

(. AUIMENTICATING OFficEE

“hc RELEASING OFF
BEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. * + Copy Mo,
: Doi /6 80

ag. Pore ace tan seem ct nm enna aren a

4

aw

t
t
ia
|
i



~~ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
: SECRET
DIRECTOR
FROM YAMA

< ACTION: - WHS (MR. COBB WH DIV. NOTIFIED 0100, 10 JAN 59)
: mo. S/c2.

IN 45998
DIR NO MEXE Sm wava 9872
po FEEL NOEMAYR JOB COMPLETED. WILL TELL HIM RETURN MEXI
i 1F 10S APPROVES,
Peaeeee END OF MESSAGE

‘ SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Wo.

_ Sora eaERRET or meee My greases + att



i iaien i . : fe
- 38 wayouof gibrs © CLASSIFIED MESSAGE yaenaye
2 JANUARY 1959 “Te ‘ ne.

DIRECTOR ;
=] 1} ee

HAVANA, : OF 30.
“WH 5 (ROBERT REYNOLDS WH ISSUED TEMPO COPY 0215 SECT. | 3
3 JAN 59.) |

oP, sft 2 PRIORITY k

1

ey Fo 2 a ci ~ /
DIR SACU MEX! HAVA 895

RE: HAVA 796 (IN 43348) *

- REBELS CANCELLED AUTHORITY. FOR FLIGHT ON WHICH NOEMAYR
SCHEDULED GO SACU. 3 .

END OF MESSAGE

Do/- us we ig

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE SUING OFFICE 1s PROHRITED,- : apy We



ae CLASSIFIED MESSAGE:
* canes pS E EWE CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

} Lo
zDATE hy JANUARY 49599 «| ~=SECRET in
2 ea

330 °+ DIRECTOR —

HAVANA

IN 43176

t

}

OP IM SACU ve OIR MEXI é cme HAVA 8778 wi '
Z Berea

|

NOEMAYR ETD HAVA FOR SACU 1 JAN 1538 CUBANA VISCOUNT.
—_—_—_
END OF MESSAGE

doi ierer Vv

“yb PAN
6)



%

—s 172 ts/es. [i> CLASSIFIED MESSAGE =f > Suis
j DATE 3 DECEMBER 1958 ~ SouTNG
to + DIRECTOR
tt —.

From; MEXICO CITY
we REC'D CABLE SECT.
ACTH 6 en Ee, ;

PRIORITY

INFO 1 S/c 2

IN 42835 i
MEXT 3227

cH

nro PRITY DIR

REF: MEX! 3925 (IN 42393) )«

CORRECTION REF: FLIGHT 565 ARRIVING 1645.HAVA TIME,

: END OF MESSAGE a
C/S COMENT: *NOEMAYR TO LEAVE #EXI 30 DEC,

Dol ler er7

gal

OFFICEIS PROHIBITED. Copy No.



a Ce. + Z 4
: - cane L
{ORIG + R.REYNOLDS E.
UNIT + Wu/TIT i
ET: pene \
: DATE + 30 DEC 58
70. HAVANA i
f a
2% FROM.« DIRECTOR [
a | ; |
i/oPs, Ci/ic, Fl, FI/oPs, s/c 2 :
: |
#7 , NFO CHE DIR _ i :
jo HAVA ver (82/5 if
REF HAVA O746 (IH 42204) © 06245 ,
1 ‘
ROEMAYR EH ROUTE HAVA CMA FLIGHT 565 WITH ETA 1645 HOURS 30 DEC. MAY } H
ae : i
HAVE MISSED REF. IF SO, WILL DEVISE CONTACT ARRANGEMENT. CABLE HQS AND MEXI : :
CONFIRMATION HIS ARRIVAL. i f
i |
. C/S COMMENT: *CONTAINED CONTACT ARRANGEMENTS FOR NOEMAYER. i t
‘ $
7 . 4

fee c/wHD v) SECRET (Artavcaes, opera :

ot RELEASING OFFICER AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
- : REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS: PROHIBITED. Copy.No.
Pearce : © Dor AEP FF



4
i
ise et a
! _~ — Tana oe
i are ED MESSAGE 7 ours
: 152 wedfes~ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE gp IT i
l DATE 1 a GEceMBER i998] SE CRE FO a
acs : :
a
TO 1 -DIRECTOR ‘
i REC'E Une i
| FROM» MEXICO CITY jaan : E
1 HE i
et PRIORITY |
wo, 9/fc2 oo :
i
i
— a i
10 OPIM HAVA INFO PRITY DIR ene MEXI 24% i
fe (WARE ACTING} ies

NOEMAYR LEAVING MEX 3@ DECEMBER VIA CMA FLIGHT 566
—

ARRIVING HAVA 1515 HOURS. WILL PHONE COS AT OFFICE.
END OF MESSAGE

See UNO! ERA aR ESN WPS SSN nH ARO RAN Ta

nw

= AK,

. SECRET woof- 16 TF)
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE, 1S PROHIBITED,: Copy No.

+.) ADS RCRNORRIRRSe fe ROARS dessert
y 1 rm fens tener Tan

pana.



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE. 18

i 286 eppiniia)!” pe
“bare. 29 DEC 58 SECRET

ROUTING.

“to + DIRECTOR fa

from + MEXICO CITY
REG 'o One SECT,

ACTION, WH (MR BRADY, WH DIV, NOTIFIED AT 1800 29 DEC)

ito “Cty-et/ops, ci/ic, FI, FI/oPS, S/c 2 PRIORITY i |

IN 4agge

7 10 PRITY DIR INFO HAVA CIE MEX! 3619
| RE: DIR 6062 (OUT 57143 )«
AMUTTER

1. NOEMAYR SUGGESTS FOLL PLAN:
NOEMAYR, :
A. AVOID HAVA QUE SECURITY RISK.
“Bs ARRANGE U.S. NAVAL AIR TRANSPORTATION TO GUANTANAMO, =) |
veo’= Ge HAVE REQUIRED SUPPLIES FOR TRIP ISSUED FROM NAVAL BASE |
AND WHATEVER BRIEFING DONE HELD ON BASE.
2. NOEMAYR ALSO CONSIDERING POSSIBLE NEED THIS TRIP CARRY
SIDEARM.
3. ALTERNATE PLAN FOR SUPPLIES COULD BE PURCHASE LOCALLY
“WEXL AND CARRY TO JUMP OFF POINT NAVAL AIR IN U.S.
END OF MESSAGE

3 COMMENT: *HQS REQUESTED HAVA ADVISE MEX! SUGGESTED ITINERARY AND CONTACT
ARRANGEMENTS. : :

SECRET Dor-/6 FT
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHWITED, Copy Nex



_ > RE G/RLG/ | Fh CLASSIFIED MESSAGE - oe

- Ono:

ae wut + hi §
{
’
4
dé i
ie i
°
‘ !
c ‘
: i
|
fo mr NO HAVA como 06052 |
REP: :, MERE 3006 (IH 40908) i
B. DIR 05525 (OUT 56079) i
i
i H
2, POSTANY AND. MARCIMAN NOT AVAILABLE. TOY AB TEMPORARY REPLACRSET i i
" NOOGYR. MR, BALMES HIDALGO WILL ETA MEX OA 30 DEC THIS ASSTOREET. i
RODOTR i I.
NOEMAYR SHOULD PROCEED HAVA OA 1 JAN AND. INPORM WIFE, ; i !
2, FOR HAVA: ADVISE MEXI SUGESTED ITINERARY AND CORTACT ARRANGENEETS, !

ERD OF MESSAGE

-

1 Bole VG rf ;



“yo DIRECTOR - _
© om. MEXICO CITY

1 penn: CRITSYR REYNOLDS, WH DIV, NOTIFIED AT 1725 23 DEC)
ro + C1/0PS, FI, FI/OPS, S/c 2

6
a

ro DIR INFO HAVA CME MEX! 3606

AMUTTER ; i
REF: DIR 65525 (IM 56079 )* i

1, NOEMAYR WILLING ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT PROVIDED:
A. WIFE BE INFORMED. ;
'B. SUITABLE TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT SENT MEXI.
2. STATION CONCURS NOEMAYRS OPINION. OPERATIONAL
CONSIDERATIONS NOEMAYRS AGENTS. MEX! REQUIRE OUTSIDE CASE
OFFICER THOROUGHLY ACQUAINTED LOCAL SITUATION.. SUGGEST
POSTANY OR MARCHMAN TDY. ;
3. REQUEST CABLE REPLY SOONEST.
END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *CONSIDERATION BEING GIVEN NOEMAYR RETURN FIDEL CASTRO AREA.
DURATION AND NATURE MISSION SAME AS NOEMAYR'S TRIP LAST MARCH. QUERIED WHETHER
MEXI COULD RELEASE HIM FOR APPROX SIX WEEKS BEGINNING EARLY JAN. :

3 : SECRET ee
{REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.



| LES foot cuassitito MESSAGE

onc: R, Reynolds :
[ SECRET

unm: WH/IIT/Cartb
56

er: 20!
pares 20 Decenbor 1958

to , MEXICO CITY :
7
FROM, DIRECTOR 7
°
CONF: WH OS i;
c
t

infos Cl, CI/OPS, CI/IC, Fl, Fi/oPs, s/c 2

Info HAVA

r

APPROX SIX WEEKS BEGINNING EARLY JANUARY

"END oF MESSAGE

Bax VOD 2
KING
eoetyind Vinedareieuts
SECRET

sueasng freee

tc RHEE RD Ys ete

feo i028
REC'D CASLE SECT,

CITE DIR - reat
Xu

- e

4

5525

Hi CONSIDERATION BEING GIVEN NOEMAYR RETURN FIDEL CASTRO AREA. DURATION
AND ATURE MISSION SAMB AS NOEMAYR'S TRIP LAST MARCH, Af TER CONSULTATION
N@EHAYR ADVISE FEASIBILITY THIS OP AND WHETHER STATION CAN RELZASE HIM FOR

yt

Dor /6rt ey

Kotmenticatine ovssces.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. (Copy Mo.

2 aavagatng pein neuen



[e]
feo 20 ia 31250

: c INFO
ee “REF: HAVA 666 (1N 36388 ) : I Baie su
- DIR 4579 (OUT 54018 )* .

1. NQEMAYR_DID NOT GO HAVA. ONLY WIFE AND CHILOREN |
FOR PURPOSE RENEWING THEIR TOURIST VISAS, DISPOSING BULK OF :
HOUSE HOLD ITEMS “AND CARRYING BACK REMAINING SMALL ITEMS MEXI.
' 2. NOEMAYR PLANS GO TEXAS EARLY JANUARY FOR VISA RENEWAL.
eae ila eetgae eet eee END OF MESSAGE :

C/S COMMENT: ‘REQUESTED REASON FOR NOEMAYR: TRAVEL TO baal LENGTH OF stay AND 7 '
WHERE HE CAN BE dalla :

a Za : ref

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Ne:

specie


pee

. a i 7
sfoupltid 1 cuassteten message <7
BG a opt r ROUTING.
Unt: CATH, SECRET i ry
forer + 399 2
5__ohTe =: ly Deo 158 7 >
{to . MEXICO CITY, HAVANA 4
j 7
from, DIRECTOR ¢ \
{ : H r
T conn, M5 e
i ¢ ‘OPERATIONAL H
i ro: S/C 2 e IMMEDIATE |
i i
{ |
! i
j1o Mer INFO HAVA CITE 1 H
: ob579
i ADVISE REASON NOEMYER TRAVEL CUBA, LENGTH STAY AND WHERE CAN BE CONTACTED, i
H hese
i END OF MESSAGE aay aa

; i ie _ Jor. Je 80! Neale
wen hy

COOTOINATING OFFICERS aa
eeteasing orricer : avimenricaTide offscen °-
® SECRET g

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. - Copy. No.


‘oate 18 DECEMBER 1958 * SECRET

‘to: ; DIRECTOR oe $

from. HAVANA : 0152250
“pctionejett 2 REC'D CABLE SECT.

estenecayageeoern © enemmnsrmetescss emer neriLayre Aan

gportsseirin wits

2

FINK + # COP, S/C 2

"DEC 58 VIA CUBANA 465.

is ICS COMMENT: DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES,

by wo/in/es aly CLASSIFIED_MESSAGE

INFO CHE

MEXI
RE: HAVA 482 (IN 41535)
DIR 4g487 (oUT 71918)

“ FYL: HAROLD B NOEMAYR AND FAMILY ARRIVED HAVA FROM MEX! 5

END OF MESSAGE

“Dor JO FES)

‘x1. 4 REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED... Copy Mo.



‘| [DISPATCH ce

TO Catef, WH Divtstoa i co

nso

Toate

"*°Snicf of Station, Mextoo City 10 December 1953

soaeer ET — CHECK ONE,

Hosptralizattca Benefits for Dependents of Harold R. RUKED FOR BDENG:
NOEMAYR Tx [ no moening neues i
acon SAS | nDERING Cas 9 UDGHD i
Soe paragrap’s 2 below, BY QUAUTIED HQ. DESK Oxa i

RETR ECES

FR 20-1000, paragraph 2, c,

1, Harcld R, NOEMAYR, 8 Carcér Agent, ts tncarring medical
from the recutred hospitalization and mediea]/surgics! trestment of one of its
minor dependents, He wishes to know.tf he ts covered by insurance that includes
‘2 the above type of expenses for his dependents, cere

a & ts noted thar reference regulettos mentioas ta general terms that
Career Agents are usually entitled to die same benefits as Staff Employees,

. However, since the Station does not have a copy of NOEMAYR's contract, It
ts requested thst Heedquarters chock his persomel file to determine if he oud
his dcpendants are all covered by some manner of hospitalization plan aad, tf
80, whet the exect terms are that thia plan covers,

Willard C, CURTIS

PCK/vps
8 December 1958

D
3 Has

JeSSSIS JSSEERESCEEDSCLRNsesenstasn= Us seasnenasenenstanygl Sue onnusaseveassanaqanuaaaeena even sekaaManeseaneaned

t

Dot le reri



a a

: CLASSIFIED_MESSAGE Toure I

: {omen is
: fe

| |

3S FROM. DIRECTOR
CONF: FO 2 '
[OPERATIONAL] A i
Bro sis, s/o 2 asso |

\

QUT615S5 |

y OUT 61565 t

£10 yexr INFO CITE DIR 26120 i

aret a ij

Ee YOR a 36120 :

PAY NOEMAY® 328.73 FOR SUMS DUE FROI RS GRU 12 SULY, EFFECTS i

FEEIDD ENDIEG 9 AUQUSY, DEPOSITS oF 13.70 WILL BB HADE TO HIS BANK,

‘EXD CF HESSAOR,

a |
ae ofa 5S SrSRET i CEAE~
wuuasing orice Kurmenticatine ovnicat

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No
Jo): /6 FFT)

\ Ss

t

gree



12 Awust 1958

FEMURANDUM FCR1 Deputy Director of Central Intelligence : i

H VAs Deputy Directer (Plane)
| SUasECTs Commendation for Mr. Rose L. Crosier

the sigmturs of the Dsputy Diroctor on tae enslosod eamendation ~

1 is requested. It will be recalled that tir. Crosier mado an outstand=
- ing contribution to the intalligence miesion of the Kestern Homi sphere
4 Division in arch 1958,

J. Ce KING
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

| i 1 Attachnont : See
i DD/P/WHtRReynoldstfem 12 August 1958

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 = Addressee
Y ~ Signer
“ ” 1 - wWy/It

“Dos 26 FFT

SECRET



[ 4
: “4
\ at
E
: :
7 } 5
. ay | i
: ae aeee : asec
: 2h duly 1958 i i
i : i
: : : : t
: 2 i
| ie!
1 i
i MEMORANDUM FORt Chief, ‘Contract Parsonnal Mivision i i
' |
: ~ VIA 1 FI/oPS/Projects' (Hiss Paxton) i t
i SUBSSCT 1 Herold R, EOReTR | i
i Anondnent, of Coatract :
!
j i
{ - i
: i
} Forvarded herewith are tho signed original and one cory of i '
: an anondnent to Subject's contract. This mendsent was prepared | |
at Meadquarters and forvarded to the field for signature. Pte Inte :

Subject is a career agant in Project LIE!

Ry. Dnbicren
Chief, \i/IIr

wa/- ‘3Mexico/LSulerngs

Distribution:
. Orig & 1 ~-Addressee
1 = Mexico. Chrono
“1 = Subject



a

Unt stat

XT: pa57 5c siseeeeeseeiesenieetie
DATE 312 JULY 1958

pefenlan a1 $0 12 RABE a aaadae on doko Sage ER aD asPESEAODE

TO + yRxIco cITy
FROM + DIRECTOR
CONF, WHOS

INFO + op 2, s/c 2

TOS. ser INFO
REF: DIR 31132 (OUT 99075) *

CITE DIR

‘BOEMAYR_ ARRIVING FLIGHT 69 AMERICAN 13 JULY.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *NOEMAYR RETURNING 12 JULY.

: R-~B. ; a :
OOD ae TO Abe . SECRET ; Penn noel
Saou + REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ICE IS PROHEBITED. Copy No.



weary

512_ere/su/' Ty : ee

he :
3, fe at
WH/TII/:2xIC0 a 7 2
2598 Ss BCRET !

1i SuLy 1958

i
if
{FROM + DIRECTOR i
i
F CONE WHS |
H INFO: OP 2, S/c 2 :
i Hy
'
|
first i
! ‘TO INFO CITE DIR i i
é vex fo
6 |
4 : 31132
a NOSMAYR RETURIING 12 JULY. fied
H “ END OF :L:SSAGS t i
4 1
{ |
} |
ae | “i
H }
i
4 |
i
i 7
1

~S

ee Do 160 FFI
Ve Area cocieaniec R WO tae

“gi)c. xan, cAdm Re Ne TAHLGSi, CAH/IIL
anttauine orricee aurmenticarina opricee

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Na

Es se Ute UN SAE

ro


: a tw. : : ee : : i

via: ___AIR ae a DISPATCH KO.

‘CREA Waa Ga Sa PONE

a Hepat i f
SECKLT eer ee

CLASSIFICATION

S 1000: Chief, WHD bate:__9 July 1966 I
: FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City INFO: Finance Division H .

SUBJECT: GeNcRAL— Adni niatrativo a '

srsano— Contract Amendment = Harold R. NOEMAYR_ :

ACTION REQUIRED: For your files ft

.. REFERENCE + MieWeseel, 19 Jun 58 H

i

Por referenced dispatch, we.are forwarding herewith subject's
contract amendment, signed as requested. We have retaimd a

Mike (pote

f 0/ jez

i Attachnent:
1 & 2 cc's contract

7 Jaly 1958
Distribution:

3S - Chief, UD, w/atts o/s
1 + Finance Division, w/o att

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION



Mr. Harold R. Noemayr

yDear Mr. Noemayrt

Reference is MAde to your contract with the United States Government,
‘as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective | June 1957, as amended.

Effective | May 1958, said contract, as amended, ie further amended in
ithe following manner: -

a. The first sentence of sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph
four (4), entitled "Allowances," is revised to rcad as follows:

"In addition to the above Paymente, you will bo entitled
to an equalization allowance co:nputed in conformance with
applicable Government regulations and policies. (For. your
information, tho equalization allowance for ‘Mexico City is
presently $000, 09)"

, be The following sub-paragraph to added after eub-paragraph
(c) of paragraph five (5), entitled "Travel";

“(d) For you, your dependents, your pergonal automobile
and your household effects between permanent posta of
assignment."

| All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in
Ifull force and effect,

You will please indicate your approval by signing in the space provided
elow.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

BY ‘:
Contracting Officer

|ACCEPTED:
"

Lok ZL. Le
(Harold R. Noemayr 2
WITNESS: (et, o, Marcha

iiAPPROVED:

_ SECRET.



ent ert mur xo, LOU~/E TEE
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 6

ROUTING

2m ER8/Sw/RFL,

DATE 2 JULY 1958 | *SECRET

da? $900.58 |
_fEGt CHaLe S2cT._ |

8 Record Vaiue, Destroy. —
PI Me W218 copy as tndlested
Brunch cory filed ag indicated

To » DIRECTOR
FROM + MEXICO CITY

ACTION + Wit 5
INFO cop, Ci, CI/OPS, FI, F:/oPS, S/c 2
IN 49957

10 OPIM DIR INFO HAVA aie MEX! 1692
RE: DIR 29626 (OUT 95479 )«

NQEMAYR LEFT MEX! AMERICAN AIRLINES FLT 158 1115 HRS 2 JULY.
ARR WASH AMERICAN AIRLINES FLT 114 2345 HRS 2 JULY. PLANS STAY

OUPONT PLAZA HOTEL.
fa END OF ea

C/S COMMENT: ®REQUESTED HAROLD R NOEMAYR REPART* IMMED FOR CONSULT PRIOR
TOY CUBA TO. REESTABLISH CONTACT FIDEL CAS; ‘

ROUTING.

Ta
r Ty

oe}
ice bdneuenae|

Sain.

* CLASSIFICATION ASSIGNED BY WASH SIG CEN.
2 Gus, ox

_ REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

* 1389



Hasson op

eS _ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 2 Toute 7

ook ERB/RG 1 : Al
DATE +49 JUN 1958°- 54) GONFIDENTI AL —{s] :
: Hen ist "

dw ih

TO "DIRECTOR
FROM. 'WEXICO CITY

j "ACTION + FD 3

DFO + FI/OPS.2, WH, S/c 2, op 2

1202.50 |

rR m0 oe WeX! 4746
DTEARN

HAROLD R. ‘NOEMAYR AND DEPENDENTS ARRIVED MEX! 7 JUNE.
H PLS ADVISE FIELD ALLOTMENT AND EFFECTIVE PERIOD. :

END OF MESSAGE

x

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No,



ROUTING

iE
;
\.
i
i
FROM + DIRECTOR ;
oe i
INFO + op 2, s/c 2° :
: ounaias2
Gur Shige I
TO > yexy INFO. mA " CITE DIR ‘ :
. : carer

RB MEXT 1608 (Tu 32123)" ct
: :
: i
: i
NAME. WILL CALL HARCILINT OFFICE IF VIARLE |
et ee ey. ERD OF HESSAGE :
CS COMMENT: REQUESTED NOEMAYR ETA. | |
: i
i a
deafoae MEI OSes b Toop |

Mex AALS me]

ar] bdr ieathets Pr -1Ie ? Tresy 3 fog

TRUTRENTICATIRG

iS ER GLEE -
peacdeied

een BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED.



PERSONAL DOCUMENTS FROM
VOL IV of V

_ CROZIER



he

5e

wee od oe

i
!
 saesanee ea —————- !

|

PE NUMDee E

Bases eaasdseeseCceeseetteee ets
ROUTING [DATE OUT {|

mm

9

LOCATOR AND CONTROL RECORD

Do you contenplete dissesination of f inforzetioa reviewed:

[7] +0 fiete

[J] to enotter US Government Agency (if so, to 202)

—_———.

e infornetion,

any Office of Security investizse®
E the Office

gust be coordineted with cr v
B

Tne @issesination of
including FBI reports,
of Security.

Cozments?

DO NOT REMOVE THE ATTACHED FOLDER FROM ci/raa/ca

SECRET


70/ OgO

-~¢



E
aa ae ‘ . k
Steen ae ane i k.
I

Si00 CE

G Bob Wood

rl 7 : :
a reeonnarintnnrimn ae nan mnemennie ee



eo Le SAB _prseinaiaite 7
+ BB. ;
y Bue
aus i
‘Se ee 13 fet
|g ADVANCE Corr wssueo suorteo h 2 i
eal FE geesenep (7 SSeS

“i CLASSIFY 10 ee OQ

REF TO THLE NO.
® rue mo Qacr 10 pnanenO oestaor O) s10.

pisses ov Sra

1 fool & Bw Wee ae LS Gh ae 7
H KEL (a6 [eee Zz, CURE CG Cyne BY
qiauiaias FL Lyf (2 AleLe

: SECRET 6322322 WAY 65 CITE JitA 3a $32 103837

;iADRID mM

WE%1CG CITY WWFO DIRECTOR, &

: TYPIC AMICARUS

i‘ REF? 609% DISPATCK 6572 (i0T SENT MEXICO)

: 1. REF REQUESTS CERTAIN STATIONS LOCATE aes Rr a
AGENTS TO OBTALN ASSESSMENT @MICARUS/1

(IDEN TO #EX1CO ONLY). + aur

a. 777A pe i
2. WHILE VISITING MEXICO CITY MARCH 68, (AriCONCERT /1 7
WET GRLANDO DE JESUS (VENTURA) KEYES .CUSAN EXILE DOCTOR : Sere. 4

AND FORMER MEMBER 13 MARZO DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO. i
4 A

VeNTUA, DPO3S 15 SULY 31, SANTA CRUZ DEL SUR, CAMAGUEY,

ARRIVED MEXICO Hy 17 WOV 57, RESIDES APT 1, CALLE Z

itz, COLONIA CONDESA. VENTURA WAS CLOSE FRIEND JOSE
ANTONIO CECHEVERRIA) BIANCH1, CONSIDERED MARTYR BY
DIRECTGRIO, AND WAS CLOSE FRIEND AMICARUS/I AND OTHER 4s
DIRECTORIO LEADERS. VENTURA ARRESTED DURING Avie a
@ND SENTENCED TWO YEARS FOR ANTI REGIME ACTIVITIES.

3. AMCONCERT/1 BELIEVES VENTURA WILLING COOPERATE

t

i WITk WOFIRM BUT NOT ¥ITH CUBAN EXILE GROUPS. IN ORDER



H
j
H

r 2
ws Dro
i) Gl vo}
a 2 | cass 10 rue v0.

KREE TO PLE KO.

raven peveey Dare.

PAGE 2 JMVAVE 22925 2 CA ET

SATISFY HQS REQUIRERE.

OSTAIN INFO DIZECTORIO LEADERS,

SEXICO MAY WISH ESTASLISH DIRECT CONTACT FOR DEBRIEFING.

4, JSHYAVE TRACES SHOW YENTURA ANTI COMMUNIST DocTGR
WO PLANNED DEFECT 1964, WORKED FOR CUSAN GOVT AS MEDICAL

SOCTUR, WAS IN EXILE MEXICO CITY 1558 WHERE

ARRESTED FOR ANTI
BATISTA ACTIVITIES AND WGR

TH GUST4VO (AROS) BERGNES

Ll 28TH JULY MOVT WEXICO.
SECRET



= ADMANCE Core

5
igus pgp CECE ERED ~~ SUE DEUEEEEEE ~~" GESURSEPEEE! RAP HOOUC THOM OF Tors COPY PROHIBITED See
eo ee ae im

7

| max OQ ws D no
z | ane 10 rue oo
sens 10 PAE NO.

exe * fue ao Darr. to eeanen pesteoy Osc.

~ WP Luge Cx tofes

yo Fa feu x, Corfe =

5
o/c cITe Jneavé 2291 oy 68303842
MEXICO CLTY 1NFO DIRECTOR 44

TYPIC AMICARUS

anwave 2250 Crd ©3937)

z.

A, CUBAN AMBASSADOR

eTH VIET NAN AND £220 DIRECTORIO.
RE

sic

7

‘BT



14-0000, “XN

‘cuban Aske to BS Snck:|: aBoY
For Plot to Kill Castro - ;

{HAVANA (AP) — A former|Cubelas said. “T simply fell into
: aban army majer bas asked a|the hands ef the enemy.
; Fevolutionary tribunal to sen-| “If I have to die, T will dott
| tence him to death because he| yelling, ‘Viva la’ revolution,
{ Bereed to shoot Prime Minister| fatherland or death wo" cif
1 Fidel Castro, win” }
i 2. "To the wall. Tobe executed, :
1 (J) Mat is what T wart.” Rolando] Death Asked for Three
‘pp, /Lubelas told the tribunal yester-| At the opening of thé tral in
Y fay

La Cabana Load series
prosecutor Jorge Segura asked}

| a ea ta Re cd aay Sree
1 i assassinate Castro with the U.S, | former Maj. Ramon Guin, Jose|
: 7 Central Intelligence Agency and|Gonzalet Gallaretia and Alberto|

H Cuban exile “leader Manuel|Blanco Romariz,

i Artime, He asted Soyear prison terms|
H =I was the victim of my/for Juan Alsina Navarro, Guil-

and contradictions," |lerm ¢ Cunt Alvares and Angel

Guin is charged with knowing!
Jabout the plot, concealing it and

: att
i 1 > ‘Schirra Ponders. |fovinster he cia
|

Settling in Perth |rersnced Sin ts joa’ fete
pata gle tat art
e ing in Ter during a meeting in Madrid on|
PERTH, Australia (AP)— Christmas Day, 1964. He said|
American astronzuz Waller M. that in February, 1965, Artime|
H Schirra Jr. says be is seriously! gave him a high-powered tele-|
consideriy settling in Perth | scope and a silencer for his Tifle,
: i when he is through with ouler| and he agreed to shoot Castro
i H space, from & distance of about 800},
H . Navy Capt. Schirra and Air|yards.
; Force’ Col. Frank Borman|

orbited round the capital off ‘Tn Hands of Enemy’
Western Australia today, meet-|_ “This was a cowardly act," he
ing poltical and civic leaders| said. “I fell in the hands of the

‘and other residents of the “City/enemy.””
of Lights.” “| Cubelas said the meeticg was
Perth fs the site of a tracking! arranged by 1-Cusaa seerieorad
Station for US. space flights| Madrid and by Odon Alvarez de|
and puts on Es lights when|la Campa, a former counselor ve
"American astronauts fiy over the|the Cuban embassy in the
vv ata at night, Schirra during his| Spanish capital’ who befected i
Right Oct, 3, 1962,|March, 1558

" station tad] About 5 persons, Including
i his|Cuban and foreign ‘ newsmen,
jatlended the session of the trial’

The Evening Ster— The Sunda
Mame ormce 3 Vena aT STAR REE IIER CO

i
E



negotiate peace, and let war;
Hand ido while the people a

Two Ex-Majors
Arrested in Cuba
As CIA Agents

MAVANA (AP)~Two fermer!
‘Cubsn Army men, one of whom)
played a key role in Fidel Cas-
tro’s rise to power, have been}
arrested on charges of counter-|
revolutionary activities for the
US Central Intelligence!
Agency. “|
‘Tee Interior Ministry an-}

i
!

nounced last night that Dr. Ro-
Jando Cubela and Ramon Guin,
‘both former majors, had been
arrested for “actions which/
seriously involve them in coun-
et : :__ ter-revolutionary activities”
Peas ~~ the CLA. . .
ae Cubela, a physician, has been!
director “of Havana's Fajardo|
: Hospital Before the overthrow |
w : of Fulgencio Batista’s regime, | 4:
‘ ; he was a commander of Cas--
t tro’s guerrilla forces im the)
Escambray Mountains, |
‘After Castro took over. he be-
came first president of the Fed-\
eration of University Studen
: vy Bt Bavana University.
N jormation Was given oa:

rf
i



14-0000 {

~,

apne oe MUI

Butts hy



at



Laney

i

{

| moc Tes Ovo 0 4

: acid serie no. ASSITIED MESSAGE c TOTAL corres av : i

| © tae ered errs s enange SECRET SEES] | cerncoucrion pnomisere

| oesteor Os PERSORTORTT OTTO TED tT Ts

! zi one ef eno
et 7 :

wiilese 3 BORD COPY | Opacsses Lerersee Crouse |

fe vA, CNR cAlPeop, CO) —SpphE, = mall
| SECRET 2522142 CITE UNWAVE 4286
| parecTor : 25 Nowe 465.46

TYPIC
REF DIRECTOR 53681

1, LEBRIEFING JUAN A. ORTEGA HERRERA AND JULIAN
j PEREZ PARRADO AS WELL aS INTERVIEW WITH CAPTAIN OF SHIP
“CHIRICANO” WHICH PICKED UP ESCAPEES ESTABLISHED BONA
FIDES, on KEY EXPLOITATION OF ESCAPE STORIES ARRANGED
~ THRU anHiM FACILITIES, cf 101000

a :
> 2 A_AMLASH=+’REPORTED BY ESCAPES TO BE WORKING AS
PRISOMPR-HED ICAL ASSISTANT ON ISLE OF PINES. SOME

AMERICANS IYPRISON BUT NAMES NOT KNOWN. NO KNOWLEDGE

ANSOUR- 1.) OTHER NAMES RESULTING FROM DEBRIEFING WILL BE

REPORTED SEPARATE CABLE.

C-regees &

3.  ESCAPEE! MADE AVAILABLE TO QKFLOWAGE AND LNYUMA
25 NOVEMBER. LNYUMA HOPES TC USE EVIDENCE OBTAINED FROM
PEREZ PARRADO AGAINST OSMANI NODARSE, ALLEGED CUIS AGENT
RESIDENT JMVAVE AREA,
SECRET

BI



SECRET

2

8 SEP 1964

crrcorre pate
tnorces

exrcoite Fer
tworces.

RRR

sreceat covert wae
WeQuIRY CHECK

ISSUE OPERATIOWAL APPROVAL,

REQUEST GREEN LIST

USSUE PROVISIONAL OPCRATIONAL APPROVAL,

REQUEST AESULTS FI/o doSsiCa REVIEW

EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL REVIEW FE/G COLLATERAL INFORMATION
AEINSTATE POA FoR DAYS UNTIL REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL

IRTERROGATION FROM

Foaeazo ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT C1/OK

Foeeaso 70

StCURITY OFFICE

a

REVICH SECURITY OFFICE CONCURBEHT UEKO AT CI/04

CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED
(Xo sotico to Division)

REVECE AT Ct/On

CANCEL PER CI7OA KOTHCE TO DIVESION
(Beasen checked belet

REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACKED REFERENCE)
ADVISE CI/OA OF NATURE AND SLGMIFICANCE

[eeouear av neaces rue
ECQUEST OPERATHENAL AND DIVISION THACES viene

Poe exPIRED
MAS BEEN INDICATED, POA SILL BE AUTOUATICALLY CAKCELLED.

+ PLEASE sueuiT peo (1.

IF, WITHIN 390 DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SuBSEZT

FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE

suasecT.

SFATLURE TO SUBMIT PRO_TI AS REQUIRED UNDER CSI NO. 10-5 OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST In OBTAINING avPeowal|

~ eaten

i
f



:
' MEMORANDUM FOR t Chief, CI/oA
' ” suBIECt t AMLASH-} ¢-101080

. 1. Reference is rade to yuur "Request for Information" dated
‘aes 31 July 1964 concerning Subject.

j 2. The PRQ Part II on AMTFUNK=10 (201-142291) contains certain - Hy
1 errors which are being struck: AMLASH~1 is mat a Keadquarters internal
asset, nor ie he running any internal group. The relotienship between
H ANTFURK=10 and ANIASH-1 is a personal ono - they have been friends for
{ Bany years. AMLASH-1 is not doing enything whatecever ot tha Present tizo
{ inside Cuba which has anything to do with any FUSAEX operation, plan,
| activity; in addition, he is not furntshing any Political or Foreign
Intelligence. A TOA wae requested on him in June of 1962 for recrultzont
# 88 4 possible defector. He returned to Cuba and hae rosured his career
as a surgedn. He ie working with the cardiology department of the
Hanvel Fajardo Heapital,

a

3. Station JWAVE is bsing advised of the above.

Samuel Hal
ADCAM/SA
Distribution: i
Orig. & 1 ~ Addressee

fal Peereenaeet Gke (6/080 : crane ;
; 7 2 2U theraadoe epg



~—~ ~~ REQUEST FOR IKFORMATION AND REVIEW

© ae

Joly 1964 diy

C= 1o1080_

SUBJECT:

~ VAY/S8A/T0S © Joo Houghan
FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA tf

-AMLASH/L

IN,ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REGUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, 17 1S REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW. OR REVIER INFORMATION AS HHOICATED.

i rot Hs OF STaFe/0 pOSsit@
h { [creeco rasces Review OF SecuRlty orf, REPORT at Civor

cauen Uist

morices | [eenar eee

REWARRS:

boxl ointes (See Remarkay=

a coer

1, Statements in the PR Part II for ANTRUNK-LO (20Lel2291)
indioata that Subject is deing used, although POA expired and vas
cancelled on i Kovembor 1963, as the leader of a group including
AMTRUVRely :

“25 It 49 requested that a Division representstive disouss
this cass at CI/OA,

“Oey Edward P.. Brora



ease wo. aos

31 Jue 1954 (Os O80

SET oe exreoite oat cerceate Fer oat
Foa ron tnotecs torers

INSTRUCTION SHEEL

aaeA

ser vp, SPECIAL covert waur
FoR on Iwoutey Heck

TISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL ACOUEST Geren List

1SSUE PROVISIOWAL OFERATLONAL APRROVAL L PCCUCST RESULTS FI/D Dossice PLviCe

7
sevied rive ccLLaTE@AL INFoRMaTin
Wied

EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL
: f

AEIASTATE Pon row

oo fiolt

[rossane to
7 NE
| pRECUEST EEVEE® OF ATTACHED REFEOtNCE:

steceaty
acer pee c17o4 xgh Ad yf aivisioef tL
SaSen"hected weRlYPl oe seep pgprhe) Faoeise ci/on or satuee and Stewirvesnce
seoues: #1 reacts pe iW * rue

ats
“Vac auest opcatvonas ano o1y RACES teeue a7
IX anid x) CY Mee eLad

Fice

vee

CANCEL PER DIVISION wiwo DAT
(Ko notice ¢o Division)

< ;
outs a 1X

TFALLURE 10 SUBMIT PRO I} AS REQUIRED UNDER CSI NO. 10-5 Of TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST 16 OBTAINING aPPAOvAL|
FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.

Wt/sa/sos .

le Saltucuts co the (ROM f* AMTRUAK -/o Cee—rys297)
nditats hat Supyist 1 beater hetiiy tad, |
Lhaugh ¥oa ~efprcot cael wae Canulld ou + Mev b,

of a ee, eludis AM TRULK-10,
Oa fe ee Aeprset tins Levene

REWARKS

