# 104-10234-10123

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10234-10123

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

::=?

3xs89r Os.e.

TASM

3

SECRET

i F=

iTC

CA

PUNKELIE

AS PARCE CORY

s/waic 5

I RID COPY

UL V2, CAWES, CLERA, CLESO3, C/oCS3, Ca, Cale, CICA2, CiF:2

SECRET 251425Z

PARI INFO DIR ROME HAVE CITE FRAN 2738

DESENSITIZZUPIC ASKAISER TECHS

RET A PARI 6768 NOT SENT ROME U8 2 161)

afm:

Grace

251335463177-

B ROME 9425(08055E)

C ROME 9437 (NOT SENT PARI (08194G)

• WILL APPRECIATE PARI RESERVE ROON WITH BATH HOTEI

ROCHESTER FOR LANGOSCH IN IDEN ALIAS.

strel Harold

"ETA IAIS HOURS 29 MARCH

Л

LH 252.

2. AS REQUESTED HAVE REF A PARA 2 ON AGENDA. ONE PROBLEM

IS ICEP ADEES FROM RECEIVING LEGITIMATE PRENSA LATINA (PL)

RELEASE SIMILAR TO BUT DIFFERING IN CONTENT. FROM DOCTORED ONE.

.83200

AVRAISER-1 (K) AND AUTIDE-2 MAY BE HELPFUL RE FORECOINS

AND ENSURING RECEIPT BY PROSPECTIVE INDIVIDUAL TARGETS... REF B

BLANCO IS ADDITIONAL PROSPECT.

ASSUME HOS CONSIDERING HIM

ARONG OTHERS PURSUANT REF A. SUGGEST CONSIDER PEF C IN SAME VEIN.

3. TYI ROME: PARI HAS SUGGESTED MAILING OF BLACK PL

MENSLETTER, WHICH MXTOPAZ FRAN CAN MATCH IN FORKAT MITH CONTENT

PREPARED BY K, TO EXACERBATE EFFECIS CURRENT PURGE, CONTENTS

COULD PROMOTE DEFEGTIONS OF ADEES FEARFUL OF RECALL. IF BLANCO

SECRET

Unit.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

PAGE 2 FRAN 27595 E

CRET

IN FACT IS ANTI-FIDEL AND HAS GUILTY KNOWLEDGE OF ASLASH OPS,

HE YOULD SE LIKELY CANDIDATE AS ADEE OF DOCTORED RELEASE.

• 4. HOS AND ROME PROBABLY ALREADY CONSIDERING POSSISILITY

THAT REF & CARRILLO OFFER TO PROVIDE INFO ON AMLASH-I INDICATES

HE AND FIRE-ARE AHARE OF TIES AMLASH TO AMUHIP-I TO AMWMIP-2

AND SUSPECT KUBARK CONNECTION. DO CABLE ADEES HAVE ANY INFO

TO INDICATE IMAT SUGGESTED CONTACT WITH BLANCO IS ATTEMPT AT

PROVACATION.

3.

RECOMMEND RELAY REF. .C TO PARI.

SECRET

CEN: 275% 676Ó NOI SENT ROMS 9425 SA3T NOT SENT PARI HOTEL ROCHESTER

LANETSOY ETA 1415 29 LA 252 A 2 PRENSA LATINA PL AMKAISER-I K

CUTIDE 2 RE 3 ELANCO HES A C FYI PL NITOPAZ X FIDEL AMLASH OPS

HAS ROME 8 CARRILLO I FIDEL AYWHIP-I Z KUBARN C

BT

HENN

....

1g.

ri::

...—

1 :

124:

---

