# 104-10120-10080

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10120-10080

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET®

Sechost

22240791011

TRAVEL ORDER

23500

OFFICE

51-78Y54

, ORDER NO.

43200-10-200:

NAME

I. Homerd HUNT, IS.

i 663

GRADE AND SALARY.

85-25

€10, 800

TITRE

OFFICIAL STATION

Operations afficer

Bashington, D.C.

You are hereby authorized to

travel and

Agency Regulations.

(15 - 4)

incur necesgary expenses

(5 -20)

In accordance with

16 - 211

Its trendurts

Turkestal and retum to tashington, D.C.

Trevel to foragoing stations may be accol

plished in such order &e nay be necessary to sccomplich alasion.. Mul 30 daya.

Revien of ape ratlous and consultation tith Ileld personnel.

113.

SPECIAL

PROVISIONS (INCLUDE APPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

$500, cast edvanco astharized.

RETURN TO CIA

I CERTIEX THAT FUNDS ARE AVArBackground Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

OBLIGATION " REFERENCE "

Secta pept masted.

BEGgAgE AUthOrI SERARGE TO 1:

4-5240-10-200

_..

AUTHORIZUG OFFICER

COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

J DD/P

OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

→ THEATER CLEARANCE (IF OBTAINABLE!

Maximum

per diem

allowance is authorized in accordance

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized.

02

$ 72520.

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATING APFROXIMATELY

CERTIFICATION (DY PROCEEBING BRANCH)

& Jamari 1954

Upon return East. DC

Certified a Irue Copy. Signeil

MODE OF TRAVEL (SPECIFY)

copy on filo in Central Proceag-

Common carrier - sir, hall

ing Branch. Reviewed. No charge

ALLOWANCE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE

necessary. Amended as indicatoà.

(A) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

(E) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO

THE

GOVERNMENT.

SIGNATURE

THE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED IS EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE

IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATON, YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PER.

SONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT TO WEIGHT LIMITS, REGIRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS SET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS.

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED.

RETURN FROM

OF

DUTY ABROAD,

INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS

AUTHORIZED.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONE YEAR OF EMPLOYEE.

TEMPORARY DUTY.

- TITLE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL (TYPE)

Joseph furt

SE/Adela

COATE)

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

FORM

OCT

NO.

33-17

SUPERBADES

gm: 11. 4514

---

