# 104-10100-10223

## Page 1

104-10100-10223

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

}

06 s:

PB/CIOP

5661

16 OCTOBER 1963

T..

:17IO. DE JAREIRO;

Fi o: DiHECTOR

CLASSIFED MESSÁGE

SBCRET

# NO INDEX

IS FiL: 40 1 10-120-11

MEXICO CITY

120

ROUTING

16867 63 22

STO CER

DEFEREED

ROUTINE

PRIORTIY RIOD

INFO PRIORITE MEXI

KEF: MEXI 6550 (IN 40823)* (NOT SENT RIO)

LAHARVES! KAPOK

C.IE DI 6 T 66

I. FOR PIO: SOME MEMBERS OF CHISON DEIEGATION TO THE SEVENTR CONGKESS

OF INTERNATIONAL UNION OF ARCHIVECIS (UIA) HELD HAVAÏA 29 SEPT - 3 OCT ATTERWARD;

WEIT MEXI TO ATTEND UIA GENBRAL ASSEMBLY AHD INTEFUATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON

ARCHITECTURE. MEXI GROUP NOW SCHMULED LEAVE MILI 01O0 HOURS 19 OCI FOR RIO.

FOLLOWING BIO DALA ON THREE MEMBERS OF GROUP XIONN TO BE MAXI:

A. XANG TINC-PAO 2799 1694-1405, 201-735316; B. 20 AUG 1901, BOMAN;

U.S. EDUCATED; MBR NPC; MER ACADENCA SINICA; VP, UIA.

B. (LIANG SZU-CHENG 2733 1835: 2052, 201-736781; B. 1901, TOKYO; U.S.

EDUCATED; MBR COP; DEPUTY NPC AND OPPOC; VICE CHALINAL CLINA ARCIITIECTURAI SOCIALI.

C. WU. CHIIG-HSIANG 070: 2529 4382, 201-736317, B: CINCA 1919, MANCHUTEA:

PRENCH EDUCATSD; CHAIRMAN ARCHITECTURS: DEPT TUNG CHI UNTV, SILANCHAI:

2. DURING STAY GROUP 15XI UNILATERAL APPROACHES MATE TO:

AND

FOE PURPOSES OF AS JESSMETT AND POSSIBLE DES LEPING,

DEFECIION ON FECIUNIMENI LI PLACE. FOLLONING COACES WITH

37 FOrMER

PARTNER Ii ASCHT:CURAi FIRM CHLIKA AND BY MAR U.3. FIPM YANG PTEVIOUSLY

ASSOCIATED WIXI,

ACCEPTED INTERVISW WITH KUBARK STAFFER VAC USED COVEI.

DERS

=904. •

in scar, 1 or 8-40089e

por: 018 8-0 30

Tiny love

16074

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

UN!!:

EXT

DATE :

7O

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF :

INFO :

10

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

O FRE IN CS FILE NO.

ROUTIN.

•74T

15

Маті!:: 83=

ROUTINE

PATE TAO

INFO

CITE DIR 76166

REIRANCH SCHOLAR CHILLA. CONVERSATION FRIDADIX AND LICLULED DISCUBSION MAININID

STrUATION.

APPHOACHED BY KUBARK CONTROLIED

KHO WAS STUDENT

1947. СОПРАСТ КТИЯ!

IRONI TO OUTER CHICONS ID DETECATION,

ALTHO

IT ALDIE KITH OUR MIN FOR HALE HOUR. 1

ATTIUS FRISIDLY BUT

SETHED TO POLION PHEARRANGED LINE AND

PROFESSED COMPIQUE ENTER CHLIESE

сожантям.

CLAIMED CONTACT BETHEN CHIRRES AND AARRICAN "PRILDE" CONEIDERE

HIGHLY DESIRABLE EX CHUMASE. CONTACIS WITE BONE

T LINTIED TO

FRIENDLY DISCUSSIONS SIHICE OPERATIONAL MISCUSSION DID NOT SUIT APPROPRIATE IN

ETIHIR CASE.

3.

BROTHER, U.S, CLITYAN, ARRIVIRG MEXICO 16 OCTOBER TO TALK VITi

AND ASK HUM IF WISHES FEMAIN IN FREE HORLD.

JO 4O PURIST FOD MONITOR ACTAVIFLES GROUP BRAZIL AS TEASIRLS AND AIDE?

DEVELOP FURFER RIO AND ASSESSHKIT DATA IF NATURAL ACCESS TO GROUP CAN BE FOUND.

DO NOI RECONBAHD FORCED APPROACH TO ANY OF GROUP, SINCE OUR OOVER FOR THIS

ACTIVITY HISARIRG TIDIY AND THERE IS LONG RANGE COAL OF FUTURE POLLON UP TERSE

CONTACTS WHEN APPROPRIATE ACCESS CAN BE ARRANGED.

CONT TRUED

COORDiNATING DEKIGERS

800e 1

rosses 9000 970-30-984

dest

•12а83.879910

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING DIFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

---

## Page 3

PRANK/HICKUM: b81

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

2

1983

ROUTING

5

TS

CONF:

INFO s

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

PAGE THREE

INFO

CITE DIR

76166

5. POR MEX I: PIS IDENTIFY OTHER MARS OF MEXI GROUP ENROUTE ROOD AND

FOIMARD TO, RIOD ANY ARUITIONAL INPO CE PURPOSE TRIP TO RIOD. ALSO INPORM RIOD

OF RESULTS

MERTING WITH BROTHER.

BAD OF MESSAGE

A/OCFE (C)

WH/ 3_

7p 21

Balasto

CGORGIMATINO OUTICEDI

JECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TITAN THE I UE OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Midwand 2 Wit

WILLIAM

SOLET

AUINENTICATING

ORVICER

Coor No.

---

