# 104-10408-10382

## Page 1

1104-10408-10382

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SEGRET

1XAAZ-17958

10 Dec 63

"Summary of Oswald Care Prepared fer

DISCOVOST OF OSHAND 1B Plesceo CItY

Briefing Purposes Ciren lODes 6s

Exact Date Unknown

On 1 October 1903, the CIA Hacico Clty Statilon Intercopted a telepbone

CAll ICA CHAID made frOm an unsors location in leadoo Clty to the soriet

Inbessy thore, using his ona sane, sparlag broken Rusalon and usiag blo true

ns, OSHAlD vas talling to the sabRasy guard, OStrIOV, uho aston enoners the

jhone. OGtAld sald he had tialted the Inbassy the previous saturday (29 Septembes

1503) end spoten to s casoul ubone news be bed forgottes, and tho had proodsed to

send a telegron for kin to hashteston, He vented to laon 11 thera vero "eartbing

271." Ie guard sold 1I the consul was dark it vas (Valenty Vladimirovicia)

ÄUIIELOY, Ile guard chockel idth sonoons else and said that the resonga had gase

out bit no saster had been received. He then hung up.

Ills ploco of Inforsation vas troduced fron & telesbone tap center unich)

we operate jointly vite the office of the prealdent of Medoo. It Is highly

secret and sot loom to lexlcan security and low extorcement officielo, who love

"thatr ona centero Dy 9 October, the OSWALD telophone conversation af 1 October

hai seen truscribed and a sumary of It cabled to taabragton.

Document Numbar 367-726

for FOlA Review on

MAY 1976

SCORET

6S P321

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 25. MAY 1975

- IMPDET CL BY U/ 2203

201-289245

---

## Page 2

13-00000

120221

•2.

The cabled report nas rocalved in Haaktagton on 1 October and checked

1a our files, where it was imadlataly sotod that the IDe OSHAWD pbantag the

Sorlot Babausy 1n Iad00 CIty sas probably the Ice OSWAID sto had defectod to

the Soviet linton 1a 1959 ad soturad to the USA in 1962. Ca 10 October 1963,

the doy aftex the report fron lesloo CIty, CIA Headguarters sent out a cabled

report about lan OBlAiD's phons call to the sorted imbassy, the repost werrt to

the F9I, the Deperteent of State (DeCaUse OBHAID VAR & U.B, ClIzER), nod to

the flavy Department (because ba vas a former larts). the cabled report to there

agencies highllghted the l1klthood that the lee OSAID bentlooed vas probably the

corner defoctos. A copy of tata sune cable las deliverad by bond to tco

Ingration and saturallzstion service, ulth unich le have so cable l1ak. Ie

some dey & long cable vent out to tsalco alty Informing our Station of the

background of deloctor Iss OSHAID and astlng for sane information. Our Btations

ma instruated to pasa 1to Infaration os the phase call to the lexico Olty offloca

of the PBI, the Dabassy, the laval Attacko, and the Inadgration and Ilsturallzat10n

servica. This was done.

GEOMET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SEGRET

- 3 -

Our Mesloo City statlon very often produces inforsation on U.s.

altizens contacting sorlet bloc calesales in Headoo CIty, Froquently the

Infosaation ve got 1s ostrexaly iserialsating, and on one as tha accralons va

hore i even been able to apperebead and roturs to the USA Americon illtary

personel tho are stterpting to dafect. In all such casse, our Headquarters

dess requests and obtains the sportal pariasion at the Deputy Diractor for plos

to pass tbe derogatory laforsation a1 a U.S, citizen to other coverent agenades.

He vere not infossed of vhat actlos the fBI and otber agenales vey baro tabes at

that time based on our ropart. Ister Investigation has continsad all tha dotalla

of bls trip, uhoro ha stayed, and hiat he did. To evold eroshing Ilnes vita tha

FBI, our Bedco Station undestood so local Investigation of 1to orts. As te sou

KUOY, OSHALD lOft Mexloo on 3 October and was so longer there then our report

was put out.

since this telephons tep operation 18 & faint one uiti the lexican

incaldency, the Mexicana elso bad the 1 October Intercept on IsO OSWAID, but 1t:

epparertly alunbered to theis filce until the assasalsation toas placo.,

SEBEET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

- 4=

22 Hovember, 1263

1o doOr as the Dame of LAd OHAID Las bentioned In carnaction with the

annarednation of Prealdent Kenady an 22 foreaber, CIA fllo chocos vera begun

and tica Hales station vas ailed by cable fos sara intorsation on ostArD.

itlla a Hoek, tuenty-seven cabled reports had bean sent to the balto House, too

State Departuent, ond the FBI.

bets

CIA feld stations provided bany luto of Intonnetion durlng the noek

sol after the sasasalnation. The lendoo CIty Station resexenched its teleptose

teps very tharoughly and case up vita several nore converzations probably

1Jvalv17E (SHAD, but sot actually sentiantag thio sesa; tbose connected bla

also to the Cuban Consulato In Hardco City, Several lexicans vera arrested

nad questioned about kle activitles, Elving a good ploture at ubst ha vas really

In to. A host al fabricators, sone anonymous, baribarded overauns emberales i

uiti spurtous tipo on too cese, nost of waich la investigated. All of tibese vere

su0n discredited, but they are still condog in.

During thla phase of our work, we served primarily 11 support of the FBI,

which ves entrusted by the President uith the major resposalbility for the

SEbNET

Investigation. The Departuent of Stute photogragled 1ts entire fIle on

---

## Page 5

13-00000

(

950227

-5-

OSHAID and passed then to us, and the FBI gAve Us A COpy of the sorlot

Caneular fIlE On OSHAID walch bad boes publicly given by the forlot Asbrasados

to the secretary Of State, On It1aAy 6 Docenber 1963, Deputy Attarzay Gessel

Katzenbach Invited la to reviou the fal'a compurebenaite report on the case to

base sure our sources were not jeopardized and that our Intornation was corroctly

quotod, le found the report highly Interenting ael so tarass to our security, as

Lang as 1t vas sond anly by the nutsarized Lovestigative bolter.

After the fleet tou days, the CIA Investigation of toe case sas boodled

at leadquesters by a stats usually charged as with Investigation and malyals of

the sost inpartart security cases, and by offlours and anaiyats of our Wasters

Ical sobere DivisIon.

Reparta fron Medico

As soon as our Meadoo City Station reallzed that Let OsHAlD ves the parlma.

suspect, 1t began re-screming all the uritton talephone transcripts 1n 1ti

files a covering the soviet Embassy for the pertinent perlod. The actual tapes

were also reviewed, but sany of then had been craved after the normal the woeles

unit. several calla belleved to invalve OSHALD vero discovered si and tbeli

DECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SEGRET

•6 .

contento cablad to lishingtos, uhere they vera diasendasted to the lilito

House, tho Stato Depestant, the Moderal Dural of Davootigation.

OSHAII's nose vas not actually mentionod is thare additlanal callo, but

alularity of spsech and varlous plata polnts at content Ilak tbon to bit. Those

calls are numerired balon in chronalogleal arder. They cover the pertod from

21 September 1963 to 3 October 1963, the khale apen oT OSAM'a vlalt to foxleo

City es later learned tron tremel records.

31 Septeaber - A man pboses the Sardot Hilltary Attache and issya ha

needs a visa to go to donat. len answerdog says be sboula call 15-60-55 and

ast for the Consul, Caller asks for the address, and 1t 13 giran to his.

(There 18 no spectal reason for l1aldug this call to OsHAID.)

27 Septenber, 4:05 PM - Iha Cuben Consulate phoned the Sortet Consulate.

311vLe Dust, Isadcan sational clext of the Cuban Consulato talkod to & soriet

official, bestig that a sala Asserioan altizon vas est the Cubes Consulato asting

Ios a tranalt visa to pass through Cuba on his vay to the soviet taion. She

wants to kuow to shon he taliod in the soviot Consulato and to told hin he sould

have no problen about 1t. Il a sorlet visa 18 astured, the Cuben Consulate

131 86 697!

201-259248

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECHET

-7 =

can grant hin a trenalt vlaa asd aluply sotlsy Cuben Inndgration autbarítlen.

the Sorlet first asts har to valt, and then sbe bas to explain the share thing

over agals to mnotber sovtet affloial, ubo tatos her talephase sumber end

proidoes to call ber beck. sllvla DURAM concludos this call by telllng the

sorlut sbe barsalt bas soved and glves ber sen sddress for the sorlert Babeasy

bullotls. Es asku box to phors (Sergsy SenenovIch) KUXIlARIIKO (socoad docreteery

nto puts out the sulletin) to elvs hla the sey sidroas and ho asica ubo tbe Cubax

Cultural Attaçbe 18, SI1VLO DURAR ElVeS tha AttECha's DERa ds TeNODA FROEIZA and

padls her taleraiono sumoer.

"7 Soptenber, 4:25 PM - A sorlot apficlal callo SLlvla IURAil back end

telle hor that the "Anesloon" had boen to ses the sovlet's and shous then a

lctter tron tba soviet Consulate 1n bashington Ioälcating that be bad been

Halting for visas for hiusels and hla vifo to so to the sovfot Jolon for a losg

tlie, but that so anover had come fron washinston, adding that the walt was

sanctises lour or fiva nantos. Iha "Amertcan" had sbore the sovieta a lotter

ahoving be sas & nenber of as asganization in favor of luba snà hed clalsed that

tise Cubens could not cáve bin a visa vithout a fussten viaa. siivla DURAN

SECRCT

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SEONET

- 8 =

rojains that they bavo the sona problea; the "Americes" la still at the

Consulate; they cennot sire hin a translt thee unless ho la harred of a sortet

visa, eves though ho furt minto to go to cuba to valt there sor ala soviet tias

to be grantel. Eo does sot loon expona 1n Cube, Inty and the conversation on

tials sota, Silva DURAi says that she ulll soto tida an hia "card," und tha

soviet concludes ly saying, "Banddes ho 18 sot lor," ls esCUseS LINDALS 100

tho toconventance de bas caused so slivia tURAl says 1t la all rigat.

28 Septaber - Bilvia DURAl calla the Soviet Babesly Sron too Cuben

consulate. The says that ahe kas the Anericen with ber afais. The sordet

unswering asks her to walt. Ween anotbes sorlet talca up tha phono, 811vla puts

the AnEriCan on. lia Mastica trles to talks fundan to the soviet lso sasuera

1n Engl1ah. Tho Anericon asks him to speak fusalan. The AuerICas says that bo

had boon in the lordet sabadly nod spokes with the canoel, and that they had

taken his addrose. The sorlet replies that he shows that. the American tben

Boy?, sonerhat enigmatically: "I d1d not know it then. I vent to too Cuban

Intansy to art then for sy sidress bocued they have It." The Sovlet invites his

to stop by again and fire them the address, and the American agroea to do so.

S GORET

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SSORET

= 9 -

-

(In thla conversation, the Amerleen was speelang handly recogaliable iusalsen.)

As fax as our rocords abor, OSHAID did not abase the soviet or tuben

Sabaasles again untill Tuesdey, 1 October 1963. Ibe Interventag days vere o

sunday and a landay. The contents of his later calla seen to bou he did sot

contact the soviets on the those days.

I October, 10:31 N1- A sas callo the sorlot illltary Attacho in tralen

Russion and sayy be bad been at their place the previous saturday (28 septerber)

and talked to their Consul. Tbey had sald they would send s telegran to Hashingtos,

and be wanted to know 11 there wore mything bowl. The sorlets ask hla to call

enotker phose punDer dad fives his 15-60-55, saylas to ask for a Consul.

1. October, 10:45 AM - (Iula 18 the phoss call 1n khich OSWALD Used his

true muse and unich vas therefore cabled to Hasbington on 9 October 1963.)

Lod OSKAID called the soviet sabassy and announced his orn nons, saylag he had

visited then the previous saturday and spoisen uith a Consul. They had odd they

would send a telegren to Hashiagton, and he wanted to know if there were anthing

new. Id did not remember the nese of the Consul, The Sorlet, who was Enlassy

Guard OBYEIKOY replied: "HOSTINOV; he 1s dark." OHAID replied: Tyes, my

GEORET

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SERGET

- 10 .

naTA 18 OSHALD." The sorlet excuzed himals for a inauto and then sald they

hedn't recelved anything yet. OsHAlD daiced if tbey bada't dons anytiding and

the guand replled they had sent a requent but that nothing had bees rocalved

as yet." OSKAID started to say: "And what...", but the soviet hung up.

3 October 1963 - A was spostlag broken Bpantah at flist and thera sagliab

phoned the Sortet 1111 try Attache and asted about & vlar, Lon Attacha's affica

referred ids to tha conmlato, elvag the number 15-60-55. Ibe caller vrote 1t

dows. The attacto official abrugged ats asotbar questlas about shether the callor

could get a visa, and the conversation anded. (Inese 19 so spectal reasoa to

the this 10 With OSHAID, Who 13 noN inorn to have ra-entered the U.S. at Lorado the

sanse doy.)

stace the operation through walch to tap the soviet Dabessy pbones 11i

Mcdoo Elty 10 nanagod Jointly with tbe office of the Presldent 08 Mencloo, tire

Inforsation an IRs OBHAID also cens to the attention of Prealdent LOPEZ, lateca

after 22, Forcaber. The next day, 23 lovember, he called it to the attention of

our Chlet of Station, tho vas already voritag feverisaly on the case, Stullarly,

the sadeens noticed the Involvernt of Cuban Conoulas CEployee BILVIA DURAN, &

---

## Page 11

13-00000

STORET

= 11 .

Mesican national. Our statton suggested that soa be arrested and interrogated

about OSWALD. The leaden autharttles had the sure loon sad abe and ber huBbernd

vare errested on 23 Fovember 1963, In the midst at s party it their homo. All

tho guesto von 200s released but silvia and hax husboad unne questlanad sod

released on 25 Hovember 1963.

S11vLa's husbead, HOrAclo DURAl SATANTO, As locustrial dealgoer, sald under

palico interrogstion that then OSHAID was named as the ansanals of Proaddent

Kennedy, llo ulfa bad recogadzed the nano and recalled son had walted on OBVALD

licen he case to apply for & Cuben tranalt visa, he rebesibered abe had said be

she doalt titià the soviet Consulate as well to find out whether so had a sortet

VIES: HOraCLO DURAi reCalLed his wifa had sald (SHAID bocana sagry sad she bad to

call out tha cuber Consul, susablo ArcUE, to quiet his.

SLIVIa DURAN told the some story, She vas a leftlet sympathizes vita:

Cube and had triod for the Mexicos-Cubes Inatituto of Cultural Relatlons. She

rocalled OSHAID voll, described his accurataly, related how he had wested a Cuben

visa but could not get one without tha assureaco of & sorlet viza, and resembered

his tiff with the Conoul, she sinitted sho had shoned the sovlet Exbessy about hin.

SECRET

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SERNET

- 12 .

Ips sun total of the statemants of SIlVIA DUBAi and her buBbard vas

to More conitra that OSSID vas In 140d00 to get A Cubor Vies to ba could velt

1s cuba for hls soviet vas, The sordet Consular file passod a to the Stato

Dopartient in fanblagton by the Sorlet Babasay confiras a long eschengs between

Strat, 10r8, Irise OSHALD, end later bar husberd, end the sovlet Consulato 1a

Washington about their roasts for permlaston to raturn to the soviet unlon.

OSHAD NOs stIll witlag to tho Sorloto 1n lashingtos about tha do loto do

9 пот 1963.

served assle ls 17?

and beld stil 29

29 Joveries, asa vos pelia pierrad alih berzail, Eas told sons sallee des

estratemal to ditsadita bas to. toa lasted Ibatos to contrant los series

Jeantos destà a record, I date, thera la dot trediblo 25535285100 2a

SECRET

55 55a Caber latal lignaco series.

---

## Page 13

13-00000

SEGRET

tien

carcela

201-287248

---

## Page 14

13-00000

SECRET

obert: Da v05y operas ol kle thaste end the phone celli igont:

sador dia coal sen on a clan verten of 18, litar opaly sa der

карту вассала: 18 50

S0 57928 REFIT S5C 8 TheRe

1'e sot toon lis adless roon ba ves at tha sorier Cacrelato asi cacro to

¿so Cutora Desolato borenon chey sad 11, Il la sard to esplala juri vitti.

127,E8,0 DA COULA sot REsuo, dod that phen Do ORKA tO HeR!re is Sal la tE

SECRET

---

## Page 15

13-00000

SECRET

Lay beado ou 1t shes bo vas 11 the sortet Contulate that day. Partopa be

had ewller flves the sidrens to Bilyla DURAl ood vented to lock It up on ber

card.

A partloularly sinster aspect of OStAlD's dealings vith the sonioto 1n

Bodico City astons fron the I1k11boad that he not ilth sovlet Consul Valerty

(201-305052)

VladIndrovich KOstKOV.

In 21s 1 Octabor phosa call to tha Sovet Babessy, tise

guard CHAIKOY supposts that the Conoul OSHALD had talkad to van KOSTIKOV 1f ho

vas dars. OsHARD seess to agros with this, but the Identiflestion 18 very casual.

In h1s 9 Boreabor letter to the Sortet Consulate 11 Hastieston, OSVAD Elves the

ners of tho Ian ho dealt vith as "KOSTY," but thero 19 Do person of thet exact

ruse in the fordet Babeasy la ISelCO City. KOSTIXOV 18 acredited as a Consular

Attache and does sctually do a lot of coldular Mars, but be 15 bors, on the

berio of blo pooltion, assoodatos, vars habite and operational tetelligence

activity, to de a sortet KEs offIcEr, sad there 10 reasos to bellero, on the

basis of Far Infornation, that ho vorks fox Department 13 al the KOD, the .

Departuent charged sith sabotaga and assassinations.

SEGRET

---

## Page 16

13-00000

(

NEGRET

Embassy guard Ivan Ivanovich ANSUKOY 1e hImaLS bellerod to be a SCE

main son previous analgements as a bodyguard and survedlinas. But unless some

•diroct evidence at sorlot compllelty is dleconered, It 10 nost Illuely that

OSTiALD's dealing With SHA DEn OILIKOY aNd KOSFIKOY Nas notbing sara than A £x17

cotseidenco, a codscluonco dua 10 part to the sortet nablt as placing intal ligance

man 11, tha Embesslos in pasdtiona unero they raceive a large portion at the

vialtors ond jisone calls. All at the five coatular afficers in the sovlet Debasay

are losun or suspected Intelllence offere, Mtbough It 10 not voval for e

X03 egent on & sensitive Ilsalon to have such ovart contact uith a soriot

Fbassy, top sucret sortet intelligence docusents ittch vet forth Military

Intelligence doctrine state that very inportant agents can do nat ln officiai

installations using sa cover for theds presence then sona sort of open

business. Thus, ubtle 1t 1s unltraly that OSHAID's contacts vita the Soviet.

Fridassy had a sore aluistes purpons, it censot to excludod.

GENCET

---

## Page 17

13-00000

SOMET

soon Insight on the Cuban attitude tovard the asreet of SIlTLa DuRAl and

the involvement of the lubes Consulate in the OSHAID CAse CAs bo galned from too

Interceptod phone calls nade betters Cuben President Osvaldo DORMICOS and Cubes

Mabassador to leadco JORguin HERMAINEZ, Armes On 26 fOr 1963, tiao day after stirro

DUFAT was raleased fran her first arrest. At 09:40 Al that sarning, President

DORIICOS phoned the Asbessador s5ca Herena and asicod his sentral guestions about a

report which tha Ambasasiar had sent In on tha arrest al SilviA DURAl and tha

LAd CHALD casA. tho thale conversation is consistent with the thoary that

OSIZAO merely wented a visa, The Ambassador did mention the altercatias shich

OSHAID Lad Ulth Conoul AXUS, end ha Bays that Serdcan pollo brulted SIlvla

DURAll'a 802s 2 Ilttle shaking her to Impress bor sita the importance of their

questions. They had asked her if the had been intiste with OSWAlD and abo had

denied It. Preaddent DORTINOß tules asbod Arbassadod

SEREET

---

## Page 18

13-00000

SECRET®

JIU0E stocbr ta taccliae palloo bal catad B1lvte Derall gerstion

abont "aonay," nnd tha tooallasis depperontly vexoad to kaon sbatser thi

roslçasa isookãt the Crisoras bal pald OSMAIO MONtS: HCPilIEZ INAlolO

¿Do seodonris had sot orfcasad $1iria DOBAl nordo, dul DORTIDOS onne

as torlas do pes sionado lila polota Irovellent DERCIOOS lertruotai

DRE11-082, to baep on

pootlosta illria DUliVl dod ta praco tts baok

18 7839 84 shes emond

V19X7 d12 ca2I sroesdent

IUBTIDOS back, Mylas do sal puentlonal "has parora" auals sad dos bae

DORLiNZ DON tO MNA, ITNALHeNA DOXPIDOS MERTAN DO tCA LENKO dE VDGSDETE

"Iway bod ttrantarad bor so toat nia vonla sieba a sirtorens tioi tba-

CIMSULADO Dal EiTons DOuy to the DanlInyDas desylcaa," Dut desbeatisecdea

EXUCTANITEZ Jorralnto ta ndoscalarsti

OtLaE DORNICOS, escrea la the DegatIro,

aad cUDi "AbOLotOl" DNtAlas NAs ElTAL tO NAX," DOTITCOS DeSe Do Eiva.

'!, NOÚ LNS FOGIOGTETÈDM dIRS DNT 0550S E SOY DONO IAINTE: TOMATII.

No do sot bota toe dito uhos nulo Eoanaldant DORSILOO pTADA SOT iaierse

:"'IA ASONS CUtRA MODOS HANDAd SO CEHAID, DEL MORATE VETE CUTTENE IA XUCICO

end 9ris, '18 esdaraseed, 1s ihe led, chas itithia nesl riiirna lesea didi-

SECRET

---

## Page 19

13-00000

(

SECRET

XAAZ-17958

10 Des 63

City with elout $5,000. Parbapa IORMICOS vas trying to Learn ubetber the

leslam palica belloved that the cubena had flanaced OSHAID. Is eny event,

to tike Cubes coverseat sent the Moscano a atlif noto of perotest over tbo

arzest ud detention of Silvis DURAi, but the ledcans rejectod too noto.

At 21455 boura on 22 Slovenber, the Yugoalaa labastador to Mesdoo, Gusten

VIASOV telephoned and Inaleted as spesiang to soviet imbassador to Meadoo BAZAROY.

In a cOnvIsAtion conceraing sens of praaldent Kensody's assasalastions, VIARON

sald, "I knen bo was hounded onen balars the Aserdcens." Both then longted.

IS 622Y

SEGRET

201-289248

---

