# 104-10300-10096

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10300-10096

TO

FROM . :

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

GATICHAL FORM NO. 10

5010-103

PAY ING: EDITION

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Menorandum

OLOn

Chiet, Personnel Security Division

Special Assistant, Chief/PSD

DATE: 1 June 190-1

SUBTECT:

In compliance with your request, the Subject was

Interviewed on 27 May 1964 relative to the information

she reported to Mr. John R. Pherson, Security Officer/

DDSET, which is indicated as Tao A.

2. Upon interview, the Subject repeated substentially

the some informtion that is reported in Mi. Pherson's

merorendum.

Adaitional infornation indicates that Subject

definitely identified the telephone caller from the Prince

George County Naryland ballot as Mrs. Kathryn N. Sherwood.

lirs. Sherwood's name appeared as 33-E on the ballot.

: 3.

During the telephone conversation subject stated

that she came under the definite impression that Mrs. Sherwood

resides in the oxon Hill, varylend area due to the fact she

mentioned that some road

construction its" being done thick has

Locirdone in the Oxon Hill area recently.

4. Subject stated that she did not desire to place

pressure on Mrs. Shervood for further information concerning

the mme end vinereabouts of the "ex-CIA Courier" who told virs.

Sherrood that Fresident Kernedy would be assassinated and the

President's assassin would also be assassinated.

Subject ad

vised that crerwood stated that the "ex-CIA Courier" lived in

Rest Virginia (city or town not given) where there vas a

Shercod advised the Subject that the food did

not, agree with the "ex-CIA Courier" and she (Sherwood) took

hit into town for meals.

Sherwood further indicated that the

"Courier" toid her thac he "had too much krowladge" indicating

that the latter ias the reason he left the Agency.

Sherwood

ctated tust the "or-Courier" told her a lot of things relative

to peorie in high places in the Government which was quite

shociting and the inforration worried her (shemood) very much.

Document Number

1279-466A

for FOIA Review on

FEB 1977

---

## Page 2

13-00000

--.-)

5.

Subject advised that during her voting experience

she had made it a point to vote for the man and not the

Elaborating, Sibject stated that she liked

Roosevelt and voted for Eisenhower. Subject stated that

she advised Sherwood during the telephone conversation that

she liked President Kennedy's stand in Cuba vereupon

Sherwood said

"too bad he vas selling us down the river".

Shermood did not elaborate on the latter statement eccord-

ing to the subject. Subject stated that the telepione

conversation lasted about one lilf hour and upon discon-

tinuance of the conversation she (Subject advised her

husband.

Mri: fadervadvised that her husband is in

censitive work with the Air force and immediately advised

subject to report the telephone conversation to proper

officials of the Agency. Tader"stated that she could not

give further clues concerning the identity of the "ex-CIA

Courier" or the location in Vest Virginia were Shertcod

associated with the "ex-CIA Courier"

I requested the Subject to keep me advised of any

additional calls, inforuation or contact with Sherrood.

7. I recormend that the attached information be

passed to Mr. Cregar by the DC/PSD.

in D/six.

Leland E. Bunny

HuB: 136)

---

