{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

""404-10181-10037

Chief, Domestic Colloction Civision (DIRECT)
ATTY : ceputy Chie? of Operations (Ed watts) w/attach.
INFO: Office of cenersl counsel (John Creeney) w/attach.
: Chief, Dalias Field office
: (lev Orleans Besiitent office) z j
H i
j

Request for Caitance in Responding to Hewa Media Inquiries

As is apparent in the attached copy of a New Orleans maga-

lL
ina article, forcer District Attorney Jim Garrisoa and his Kennedy
assassination theories are enjoying a revival of interest by local

news wedia. It is possible that the New Orleans B.0. may be con-
tected by nevenen for coments on Garrison's charges, especially in

“Light of the recent disclosures of facts vaich were not nade avall~
able to the-Warren Comission. In the absence of more specific
Neadquarters ‘guidance, we intend to respond to any mich inquiries
by saying that “r. carrison's charges of CIA involvement in the
Kennedy asasssination vere false when he first mde thea in 1966,
and thoy are still absurd today, and wé prefer not to comment.
further. You say be able to suggest a batter response than that,
and if so we hope you will share your thoughts with us,

2. We are samewhat nore concerned ebout how we should respond
to any direct queations conceraing the Agency's relationship vith
: ~Clay Shaw, who as you know vas unsuccessfully prosecuted by Garrison
| for conspiring to assassinate Preaident Kenmedy. Shaw, whoa Garrison ‘
i refers to aa a CIA employse and who dict about tvo years ago, vas an
i active contact of Hunter Leake's during the period 194801955, pre-
; sunably a8 4 routine source of FPI. Despite the 3) zame-ald cone
H tacta recored ca Shaw's contact card, however, his local file
i
i

contains only three pieces of imocuous correspomience.

3. Since we cannot deterina the nature of DCD's relationship
' with Shay fron cur files, we would appreciate your sumsarizing it
for us. We vould also, of course, velcore your guidance in responding
to any neva moiia questions about our relations with Shay, should they

i materialize.

J. WALTOR HOORE:

3
[med |

Attach, as stated

q 22 DET cL BY 093229

CONFIDENTIAL |

