# 104-10215-10117

## Page 1

14-00000*

104-10215-10117

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

•*::R 1051

TO

• Director

Federal Burdau of Investigation

Attentions

M. S. J.

Pepick

FROM & Deputy Direetor (Plane)

SUBJECT : Rolando CUilla Becades

200-252234

On 17 March 1961, Rolando CUBBLA Secadea telephoned fron

Havena, Cuba, to a personal friend, Carlos TEPADINO Gonzales, La

ReW YOrk CiEy, CUBSLA ASed TEPEDINO tO plACE an OrdeI LOI tHO

car springs end to dellver the springe to lianuel "Manolito" PEREZ.

a mabar of the Cuban delegation to tha Peaca Conference held in

assaco city in early larch 155h.

FIRSZ and "El Cordo Gerardo"

mportedly llved at tha Hotel Tudor, Boom 1509, 304 Bast 42nd

StrosE, lau Xork.

Tha abova tutorustion mas giva to a raprasontativa of

thia ¿gency by Carlos TEFEDINO Consales, a long-time contace.

TEPENHO SO SlaO a lOng-LInS aCqUaIntaNCe of CUssZA. The latter

Individual so Prasidont of tha Cuban Valvarsity Studente Federation,

Frosident of the newly formed Revolutionary Vlgilance Comittee and

dalegate to the reace Conference la taxico, 5 8o 8 March 1951.

PITEaMO, whose addrass lo liated in this Agancy's lile sa 580 Fleth

AVANUA, MaY YOrK CITY, CATE Of IEIdOTE DOLINGER DIaSandS, Lo a

Cuban Javaler uho foraarly lived in lavana, Es l8 also reported to

se a partues in Corlata Incorporatod, New York City,

So According to TAPBDINO, Manual "ManolIto" PEREZ is a manber

of Cuben Q2.

TEPEDINO Indicated la lo uncertain as to whether

lo felond CuBita really desires the car aprings ordered or to

Beraly aRdeavoring to adules hia, TIPEDINO, thAt PEREZ lo connacted

with cuben intelliganco.

#.

The Agency's flles reflect no pertirent Identislablo

Infernation on "El Cordo Carardo". Manuel PEREZ may be Identieal

with Manual de Jesus PERET fernandes, a secretary assigued to tha

Cuben Permanent Delegation to the United Nations. FiREd has aldo

bean repartod to be & mender of G-2.

The abova report ls fOr yOur confidenilal information anly

and abould not bo disseminated outside your suresu.

CSC1-3/764, 709.

Wa/4/CI/RHopking: se

31 March 1961

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

/- RI

83057

1 - CI/R&A

1 - CI/LIA

IS COPY

201-252234

Based on:

MEXI 7686 (IN 4892):3/30/61

1 - WH/4/R

HP2M-16702, 3/22/61

2 - 51/4/C1

---

