# 104-10186-10317

## Page 1

104-10186-10317

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

• shait

INFOR

TONTRERORT

MINEORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S-E-C-R-E-T

SU HIREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

curs

REPORT NO. CS- 311/01109-64

SUBJECT

Poliar Guidance Dircotives for

Colas intelligence Representatives DATE DISTR

Кіл--INN!

melissed el the the

of the

NO. PAGES

vieroral Directorate ui Intelli-

3 August 1964

9

RETURN TO CIA

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

Background Use Only

CS-311/00315-64

CS-311/00716-64

DATE OF

INFO.

1908

No Not Roproduce

CS 311/00865-64

PLACE &

DATE CO,

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS , NEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEPINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

I firaer Cuban Intelligence officer who served with the Cutan

Irrelligence service until April 1964.

Read barters Comment. The following is a translation of a

which contains the General Directorate of Intelligence

¡Piracolor Conoral de Iitcligencia - DGI) VA Department's

directivo for Cuban intellirence representatives

in b000ragud.

The Ma Department no longer exists as such, having

seen dirtdod

into quo departments:

Illegal Department (Ilegal)

anà she dutional. liberation Department (Liberacion Nacloual - LN)..

LINES FOR SECTION N-A

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA

1. CHISCREVE ACTION

2. NATIONAi LIBERATION LO: EVENT

3. AREA FORCES

1. TRAINING CAMPS AND OPERITIONAL BASES

5.

TEE YICARAGUAS CONNORIST PARTY (PARTIDO SOCIALISTA

6. RiPRESSIVE BODIES

7. ECSTER REIOLUTIONARI ORGANIZATIONS.

S-E-C-R-E-T'

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

3

2

1

rotted too 0o1

FBI. 2

STATE

REACLICL

NAvY

EINESD = INUS

TAIR INSA

I NA

i OCe

INFORMATION EROR INFORMATION REPORT

JLt-1577

(SP

'AVMLG-1)

-CS-312, 01409-61

CLIS

21. RID 1. WISt do (5)) SK 310111802

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Hdgr's Dissem

WHI 'COPS

WHI 'PO/ A

WH/ PO/B

WII/RO

Hll/1

NHl /2

Nll/3

WH/4

WH/5

WH/6

WH/R

WH/SA/EOB

WHI/SA/MOB

HH/SA/R

WH/SA/Int

WH/SA/CL

NH/SA/SO/NS

CI/Staff

CI Liaison

CI/R&A

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR

EE/YA

FE/HI

EE/P

EE/C

EE/TIS

FE/PHI/I

FF: /JKO/JO

FE/JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

NE/AA/L&S

NE/AA/AP

VE/AA/E

NE/AA/I

NE/S/P

NE 6/C&1

NE/Intel

NE CI

WE/1

H'E: 2

HE: 3

HE/1

6/71

3

5

-5

30

1

3

144

1

1

1

4

S-F-C-R-r.-T

NO FOREIGO DISSEM

- 1a -

WE/BC

WE/R

SK/C1

SR, RR

SR/O/ Will

1

Fiold Dissem

WHl MEXI

WHI/MNTY

Will/MRID

WH/SDOM

WIl/SNDR

WHI/SJAN

WHI/PIBO

Hill/POSN

WH/KNGS

WII/PRIN

WHl /GORG

WII/PACY

WIL/MANA

WHI/SJOS

WH/SALV

Hill/TEGU

WHI/GUAT

WH/LAPA

WHI/BOGO

WIl, QUIT

WII/GAYA

WII/LIMA

111/ CARA

WII/BUEN

WII/CORA

WH/MONT

WII/ASUN

WH/SAGO

WH/RIOD

WH/CURI

WH/BRIL

WHI/SAOP

WH/BHIA

WH/REMIO

WH/LGRE

WH/RECI

WH/BLEM

1

WH/SA/WAVE

5

AF'ALGI

AF/ORNA

AF/RABA .

AF/CASB

AF/ACCR

AF:CNRY

AF. BAKO

AF/DARE

M441r1

EF.

VItN

EE ' SBUR

EF. CYRU

S-E-C'-H-F.-1

NU FOREIGN

DISSEN

C5-311:01109-61

LE ATHE

EE KAVA

EE 'SION

EE BERN

FE. 'GNVA

i 'GURI

EE HAMB

FE DJAK

FE: NEDN

FE/ SURA

FE: TOKY

FE OKIE

FE 'SEOU

FE 'SAIG

FE. KOBE

SE/COLO

NE NEWD

NE., BOMB

NE/CALC

NE /MORS

NE/KUWA

NE/ KAHI

NE: DACC

NE/LAVO

NF: 'RANI,

NE:

BAGH

NE

BEIR

NE/DAMA

SE'ALEP

NE/JIDD

N'E: DANA

NE/TAI%

NE. CAIR

NE/ALEX

WE. BRUS

NE /COPE

WE. NELS

WF

'OTTA

WE 301E

WE/MILA

NE. MAGU

WE: OSLO

WE/I,ISB

HE MADR

NE 'DARC

NE/ STOC

NE:/LOND

NE, PARI

Liaison Disscm

IE/Canada

il

(RCMP)

LSI 154

1

1

+.

- --

1

1

---

## Page 3

14-00000

- 2 -

+5-511 01809-64

8. MISITIOS OF POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CERAS RESOLUTION.

S. OLIDARITY-WITH-CIBI NOVEMENT

10. THE COUNTRY'S ISTERNAL JULITICAL, LIFT.

11. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.

12. ISTERSAL SITUATION OF THE ARMED FORCES

13. THE CHURCH

INFORTANT

14.

RACTIONING, CHARACTERISTICS, AND DATA CONCERNING MENBERS

OF THE FOREIGN SERVICE AND THE DIPLOMATIC COUPS ACCREDITEI

IN THE COUNTRY.

15. THE PRESS

NECESSARY

16.

GOVERNMENTAL STRUCTURES AND FUNCTIONING OF ITS ORGANISMS

17.

SHURCH FOR COLLABORITORS WHO CAN INFORM ON THE STATUS OF

THE NATIONAL ECONOVY.

18. THE BORDER QUESTION

INFORMATION LINES AND OBJECTIVES

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA

1.

INPERATIVE

COLLECTIVE ACTION

Agreements of collective milllar or political aggression

against Cuba

in which Nicaragun participates

organisms, OAS. CDECA.

Participation of the Nicaraguan

Government in them, militar capalilities or aid in any

form.

Meetings of Cica.

agreements reached, somoza's

participation and role in the CiCA.

• Military maneuvers which take place on vicaraguan

cerritory in benalt of Central

Imerican armies; the

armies and units which

take part in them.

Zones wherr

the maneuver's take place.

Coordination agreements among Central Aerican armies

lor aggression against Cuba and against the var

'ational Literation.

Realization of them.

Cases 1n

which they have been fulfilled. Concrete steps taken.

Provocation campuigns which the Somoza government prepares

aimed at showing Cuba

intervention in the country's

internal affairs and attacks of

our revolution

against

Jicaragua.

S-E-C-RE-T

SO FUREIGN DISSEN

274462039

---

## Page 4

14.00000

S-F.-C-R-F.-T

NO FUREIGN DISSES

-3 -

C5-311/01409-04

{) Role and Functions of the Somon Alr Force in the

plans of attacks against Cula, and the units which

have taken part.

Their tralning, and arms at their

disposal. Transportation.

g) Measures Haken concerning travul from or to Cuba.

h)

Possibilities of the breaking of relations with Cuba

by Latin Amorican countries that maintain relations at

present.

2. NATIONAL, LIBERATION MOVEMENT.

popular support.

Relations anung the groups.

Relations with the Leftist

Forces and exile grouds.

Position toward the Curan Revolution.

Permanent contact with guerrilla groups. Activitles.

b)

Carlos Fonseca - general data concerning him, his

activities, and his relattonships.

c)

Noel Gerrero - general data concerning him, his

netivities, and his relationships.

d.)

Movilizacion republicana - composition.

data concerning them.

Actual steps toward

Movilizacion Republlcana's plans to

Influence the clections outcome.

Relations with the

PS.V. other leftist forces and bourgeois political parties.

Other leftist forces.

Frente Insurreccional Vicaragüense.

Frents Interno de Resistencia.

Movimiento Sandinista

Leaders, data concerning them.

Activities.

Actun steps. toward insurrection.

Strengthielations

with heftist Forces.

f)

Student and Youth Movement.

Centro Universitario de

la Universidad Nacional

(C.U.U.N. - Universit; Center

of Vational University):

its leaders, data concerning

Strength, activities, relations with other youth

organizations.

Position toward the Cuban Revolution.

Juventud Patriotica

Nicaragüense (JPN . Nicaraguan

its leaders, data concerning them. Strength,

retivities, relations with other jouth organizations and leftist

Fronte Nacional de Juventudes Revolucionarias

(FRE. NA. JU. R. - National Front of Revolutionar: Youths) :

1 ts leaders, data concerning them.

•Organizations of which

It 1s formed. Nellvitles: leaders and data concerning them.

Position of Leftist Forces toward the PSN.

h)

Present status, development, and application of the

unification plans of the Movimiento Liberacion Sacional

(MI.N - National Liberation Movement) according io the

agrements of the meeting in Costa rica, influerce of the

election outcome in the application of these agreements.

i)

Permanent and perlodical contact with Leftist Forces.

Intormation concerning the reaction of Leftist forces to

political and economic changes which occur in Caba.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEN

---

## Page 5

14-00000

5-F.-0°-18--E-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEM

CS. 311 01409-64

ARMED FORCES

a) Organidation.

Undes and capabilitles.

Nimaments,

transportation, and bases.

Chlots..

b) Budget of the Armed Forces. Bach branch's budget.

c)

Lallar canta verhe sarades countriese.

Points ngreed to in them.

d)

yanken altan alson of here they are

assigned.

Functions and tasks promoted by them. Strategy

expounded by the mission.

Units

and effectives

of the Armed forces within the

DCA or available to enter into it. Their chiefs.

position of Tachito Somoza in it.

Position of the

otacr armies with respoct to the command.

Role of

he Yankee mission in its destrnation.

g)

Military units with anti-guerrilla tralning.

Effectives,

Icngth of anti-cuerrilla training.

Combat readiness.

Armaments and transportation.

Their bases.

Unit Chiels.

h) Other battalions with spectal training (paratroops,

Rangers,

etc.)

Their bases, armaments, and

transportation.

New types of armaments adopled by the Armed Forces.

Characteristics and quantitles of the malerial acquired.

1.

TRAINING CAMPS AND OPERATIONAL BASES

a)

Cuban mercenary training camps situaled in Nicaraguan

territory,

determine

their existence at the following

points Puerto a bet colled neho characteristies.

Number of

men trained.

Type and length of training.

Camp leaders. Countries from which the mercenaries come.

Means of transportation.

Existence of Cuban mercenarles lu Somoza's arm; and on

his bases and barracks.

Theft names, ranks, and

responsitilities.

Units to which they belong.

Positions.

they hold in it.

5.

c)

Location of counter-revolutionary opcrational bases.

Places where they are,

number of men and nilitary

effectives, ships or other types of transportation.

Arms which

they possess.

Aggression plans.

from bases and return to them.

Departure

THE NICARAGUAS COMMUNIST PARTS (PANTIDO SOCTALISTA NICARAGÜENSE -

PSN)

a) Position toward the ll Declaration of Havana.

S-E-C' R-F-T

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 6

4-00000

6.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSES..

-5 -

(5-311/01-109-61

Position toward Cuban-Soviet relations.

c)

Position toward the Cuban line in the natlonal and

International political field.

d)

Position in

relation to the conflicts in the

International Communist Movement:

1: The

case of China and the USSR.

2. The case of Albania and the USSR.

3. In reference to Yugoslavia, China, USSR, and Albania.

4. In reference to Peace.

5. . In reference to peaceful co-existence.

e) Internal situation of the party:

1. Leaders (data on them).

2. Activities,

strength.

3. Internal dissension.

f) Actual steps of the PSN toward insurrection.

b) Means of fighting which are officially adopted.

h)

Relations with other leftist forces:

1. Disagreements.

2.

Status

In other settist organications

Participation of its memkers

Position of the Party toward: the unification of

the Central American Parties for the purpose of

promoting guerrilla warfare.

Needs of the PSN.

k)

Labor for Solidarity with Cuba.

1)

m )

Means of

publicity.

Permanent and periodical contact with the PSN.

n)

0)

p)

Relations with bourgeois parties.

Attitude of the PSY toward the elections.

Attitude of the PS toward the Central American

guerrilla war.

REPRESSIVE BODIES

a)

Repressive bodies functioning within the country.

Their commanders, plans, and objectives.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 7

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEM

-6 -

CS.311,'01109-64

b)

c)

Military Intelligence services.

Integration of

same, means of functioning.

Their chiefs and high

officials.

Internal organization. Plans and

objectives.

Existing coordination between Somoza's repressive

bodies and those of Central America.

Nicaragua's

representative to them, meetings, agreements made,

plans... Places where it is carried out.

Plans

which have been developed by the combined services.

Participation of CIA and other Yankee agencies in

the existing coordination among the repressive lodies

of Central America.

d)

Counter-revolutionary Cubans who belong

to or

participate in activities of the repressive services,

their names, duties, and cases in which the; tool

Nationals of the repressive bodies who have heen

trained by CIA.

Where they were trained, course

and instructors.

{)

Contact with Interpol.

Coordination with it.

Restrictive measures concerning travel to Cuba.

Agents.

7. COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS

Delei rade ra input prominent

Delegations of the counter-revolutionary organizations,

Their contacts with the

Somoza

Government.

Through whom do they

function. Aid which

thes

receive.

Most prominent persons.

b) Contacts between Carlos Prio and the Somoza Government...

c)

Activities promoted by counter-revolutionary organi-

zations.

Propaganda campaigns, distribution of

propaganda.

Through what means they are carried out.

Their contacts with the owners of these means, radio

stations, printing houses, newspapers.

e) dotivitles of Di. Francisco Bustrago.

8. POSITION OF POLITICAL PARTIES TONARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION:

a) Toward the II Declaration of Havana.

b)

With regard to Cutan-Soviet relations, on question.

hich affect Cila and world peace

c)

With regard to the accusations that Cuba is a base

of Communist aggression against the American continent.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 8

4-00000

S-Е-С-Д-Е-Т

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

05-311 01109-874

9. SOLIDAKITY PITH CURA NOVEMENT

a) To ascertain it it is organized: in uhat sa. it

functions, shu its leaders are.

To ascerrain the possibilities of active solidarit-

demonstrations which the progressive arranizations

have.

10. THE COLNTR: 'S INTERNAL POLITICAL LIFE:

Bourgeois political parties: Partido Lileral

racionalista (Sationalist Literal Fart!), Partido

Conserrador de Nicaragua (zancudos) (Conserrative

Party

of ficaragua), Partido Conscrvador Tradiciosalista

(Traditionalist Conservative

Party) (Dr. Fernando

Agüero, relationships with Figueres, Betancourt, and

Muñoz Varin):

Possibilities of a conservative

insurrectional outbreak.

Partido Liberal Independiente

(Independent Liberal Parts).

Social composition of

these parties.

Strengths.

Leaders and data concerning

them.

Relationships with

the Yankce Emlassy. with

the Church, and with North American businesses. laternal

divisions, motives. Source of their finances.

b) Youth Organizations.

Jurentud Liberal Independiente

(Independent Liberal Youth).

Juventud Conservadora

(Conservative Youth) (Aguerist).

Composition,

strength.

Leaders.

data concerning them.

Connections with students.

Relations with the political parties.

"Sueva Nicaragua" murement

c) Other Organizations Frente de Literacion Jacional

(National Liberation Front).

Their leader's and cata

with other political parries and leftist forces.

11.

RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES

a) Alliance

for Progress. Peace Corps; their activilies

and plans.

b) Relations with accredited U.S. organisms.

militar; aid.

U.S.

c)

Role of the lankee militar: mission. Training

of Sicaraguan militar:

men.

d) Aid plans for the promotion of tourism and for

road construction.

Actual end pursued, personnel

who work, etc.

•) The linited States Embassy.

Data concerning the

ctivities of the Ambassador and Embassy personnel.

f) Position toward the Bryan-Chamorro Treaty and

prospects ior the construction

a canal.

S-E-C-3-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 9

14-00000

12.

13.

S-E-C-i-F-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-8 -

C5-:311:01.109-61

ARMED FORCES, INTERNA. SITUATION

Data concerning the Military commanders and the

activities they carry out.

• Conspiracy groupy within the Armod forces.

nfluence of exiled officers

c)

Data concerning military men who are in the

internal organisms. JID, UN, and the military attaches

in and from Latin

American countries.

THE CHURCH

a) Ecclesiastical hierarchy.

Position or relations ketween foreiyn and national

clergymen.

• Penetration o1 the Protestant church and r'clation

with

the government and the Catholfe Church

d) Participation of the Church in Internal polities.

e) Laymen organizations of the Church. (Juventud

Obrera Catolica, etc.)

1) Relations of the Church with U.S. plans. Allance

fur. Progress. Peace Corps.

g) Relations of the Church with the Aimed Forces.

le Estudiantes Students

14.

IMPORTANT

FUNCTIONING, CHARACTERISTICS, AND DATA CONCERNING MENBERS

OF THE FOREIGN SERVICE AND THE ACCREDITED DIPLOMATIC

CORPS IN THE COUNTRY.

a) UNITED NATIONS.

b) ONS (Organization of American States) and JID (IADB).

c)

Functionaries in and from Latin American countries.

d) Remittance of all information obtained in diplomatic

circles

concerning the countr.'s internal political

life.

15.

THE PRESS

a)

Data on

the reporters and the broadcasting organs

existing

in Nicaragua.

Possibility

of utilizing the reporters in the

country as

well as abroad for our job.

S-P-C-H-F.-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEN

---

## Page 10

14-00000

NO FIREIGN

ATEIGN DISSEN

9 .

C5-311/01109-61

YECESSARY

16. GOVERNNENT STRUCTURE AND FUACTIONING OF ITS ORGANISUS.

a) Relations betreen the Presidency and the ministrles.

b)

Data concerning the persons closest and most

influential to SuBuza.

c)

Congress.

Most prominent figures.

Relations tetween

the government and the U.S. Embassy and cotton

monopolies.

17.

18.

d)

Political personalities with authority over the

zones of the country, and data on thea.

e) Judicial power, personalities. Repressive laus.

Important laks.

SEARCH FOR COLLASORATOSS WHO CAN INFORM ON THE NATIONAL

ECONOMIC STATUS.

a) North American businesses Influential In the country's

economy.

U) New North American Investments in the country.

Industry and

aining.

c) Trend of unemplogment level.

d) The country's relations with a view to Central

American economic integration.

Situation of cotton and coffee production.

Political

and economic effects of low prices:

coffee and cotton: forld Market.

THE BORDER QUESTION

a) The dispute with Honduras over the Segovia zone.

b) Border situation of fonseca Bay.

c) Border

probices tits Costa Rica.

S-I-C-R-E-1

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

