# 104-10018-10070

## Page 1

1704-10018-10070

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO.

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

ACTION:

Chiaf,

WE (Attn: C/WE-2)

DATE: 13 Dec 63

Ca: os Statius, the Haguel.

FILE: 51-2-4/1

GPFLOOR

Index: None

Transmittal of SYMPATHIZER Réports

HAGU-5110

FYI

1.

Attached for Headquarters' information are the following.

three SYMPATHIZER reports:

CAH/63/795, dated 3 December 1963, which is the result

of the SYMPATHIZER investigation of OSWALD's transit through The

Netherlands in June 1962.

As will be noted, their check with the

Holland America Line confirmed the already well-known fact that

OSKALD sailed on the ss. MAASDAM on 4 June 1962, together with his

wife and child, from Rotterdam to New York. No new information was

gained by SYMPATHIZER, however. The Dutch newspaper article referred

to in this report mentions the

fact that OSWALD, after arrival in New

York, was contacted by his brother, name and address not given.

Nothing else of interest is in this article.

b. A BUSYBODY report of 1 December 1963, concerning a tele-

gram received by the Cuban Embassy in The Hague, from Havana.

SYMPATHIZER "AC" report #56, dated 2 December 1963, which

was reported previouslyly the Station in HAGU-5063.

2: The TDY transcriber sent to The Hague on 4 December 1963 is

in the process of listening to the tapes which contain mention of the

assassination.

Thus far, nothing of interest bearing on this matter

has been picked up from these tapes.

We will of course inform Head-

quarters by cable if and when any further pertinent information is

obtaired.

Techand

lIchard R

B. Cooney

Consley Bit

Attachments:

As described in para l above

395-745

Document Number

for FOlA Review on MAY 1976

•Distribution:

43.- HE. "/atts

?:- dague

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 85 MAY 1978

_ IMPDET CL BY 0/2208

X-REF COPy-FilE 19 201-289248

ONHA - 27391

---

## Page 2

13-00000

201-

289248

info pled on

1896-

CAH/ 63/795

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSHALD and wife.

3-12-163=

In compliance with your oral request for information on subject and

his wife we state as follows..

1) Marina Nikolajevna P(R)USAKOVA, born Sewerodwins's, province of

Archangelak, 17 Jult 1941, mile of Lea Harrey OSWALD AmericaN, bOrD

18 October 1939, was issued a transit-visa for the Netherlanda on

30 May 1902 by the Netherlands Embassy in Moscon under no. 249-NE 62,

2) On 3 June 1962 Mrs OSWALD entered the Netherlands via Oldenzaal Station.

presumably accompanied by her husband and daughter JUNE,

3) On 4 June 1962 the three departed by the s.s. "MAASDAM" of the Holland-

america line to the United States. This communication was received from

the Rotterdam Police: See also the publication in "DE TElEGRAde" of

30. Novemoer 1963.

MED

Tri cal 48-43

---

## Page 3

13-00000

BUSYBODY

I Dec 65

RoDRIguEZ phones the following telegram to DIAZ, which was

received from CASTRO:

After the essassination of fresident Kernedy, facts have ben bringing

un to light a sinister plot. Contrad ction, reveal that Oswald was either

convicted by the Police or prepared to plen the assassination (not clear),

with the pronise of letting him escape aftermaids, so as to insinuate or nake

the responsibility fall upon tose whon the actual authors warted to blowe.

it is clear trat reactionary dorth Americans ranted to nake Cuoa anu the worid

victing of their criminal purposes even at the extent of assassinating the

President. They sent Osweld to lexico to ask fur an in-transit visa for

Cube erd then go to the USSl. Imagine the President's assassin just returning

from the USSR and going to Cuba! le could have asked for an USSR visa in

sone European countries much much closer than Cube without coning to Cuba and

then returning to the USSR.

On or about 1970 we will be able to surpass 10 nillions tons of sugar

and export it. Econony is getting firmly better.-"e have alredy sold sugar

at about 10 cents for 1065 or 1966. By the end of this year, nougat, wine

and prapes will seappear in the market as a result of the exterior conmerce.

...!

DOE MOTIO

for CЗV 43-43

SE

CRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

-'Ur. V. ADtErA geDrUlK

' No.: .

00734

Datun: 1 December 1963.

-11.58

11054

/U/Đ

A: RODRIGUEZ

X: DIAZ

T: SPAANS

Opmerkingez:

Gekozen nr.: 010-127513- Hoonhuis Consul Diaz.

Rno: 19 L: 46

dd ambt: 1

verwerkt: H25

Datum:

2-12-63

Vert.:

H25

Bergen in:

Verwijzen/cople ia,

Inboud:

A geeft een telegram van Fidel Castro door:

HECHOS VAN DEMOSTRANDO SINIESTRA CONJURA TRAS ASESINATO PRESIDENTE

KONNEDY FUNTO CONTRADICCIONES DEMUESTRAN OSWALD FUE CONVERTIDO POR

FOLICIA EN CULPABLE O FUE PREPARADO PARA ANALIZAR HECHO COMA CON

PROMESA DE ESCAPAR COMA A QUIEN ASESINARON (A PIRIGALES??.) PARA

EACER QUE HAGA RESPONSABILIDAD O INSINUARLA SOBRE AQUELLOS A QUIEN

LOS AUTORES INTERESABA HACER CAERLA PUNTO ESTA CLARO QUE REACCIONARIO

NORTEAMERICANOS QUISIERON HACER A CUBA Y EL MUNDO VICIIMAS CRIMINATES

DESIGNIOS AUN AL PRECIO DE ASESINAR AL PROPIO PRESIDENTE PUNTO

ENVIARON OSTALD A MEJICO SOLICITAR VISA TRANSITO CUBA PARA DESFUES

VIAJAR URSS FUNTO IMAGINENSE ASESINO PRESIDENTE ACABANDO REGRESAR

DE LA URSS Y PASANDO FOR CUBA XKXXKIKIHXNSXARXNXX& PUNTO VISA URSS

FUDO FEDIRLA DESFUES EN FAISES MAS CERCANOS DE EUROPA Y NO VENIR A

CUBA FARA DESPUES IR URSS ES MUCHO MAS LEJOS.

Verder zei Castro n03, aldus A:

PARA 1970 # ESTO ESTAREMOS EN CONDICIONES DE SOBREPASAR DIEZ MILLONES

DE TONELADAS DE AZUCAR Y EXPORTARLA PUNTO ECONOMIA COMIENZA MEJORAR

SCLIDAXENTE PURTO TENENOS VENDIDA AZUCAR ACERCA DE DIEZ CENTAVOS FARA

1955 o 1956 PUNTO ESTE FIN DE ANO REPARECERAN TURRONES VINO Y UVAS

•COJO RESULTADO DEL COMERCIO EXTERIOR

FZITEN BEGINNEN EEN ONHEILSPELLEND COMPICT AAN TE TONEN ACATER DE

NCORD OP KENNEDY STCP TEGENSTRIJDIGREDEN TONEM AAN DAT OSWALD DOCR

DE FOLITIE ALÜ SCHULDIGE WERD BESTEUPELD OE VERD VOORBEREID OM DE

MCORD TE KUNEN ANALYSEREN KOMMA MET DE BELOFTE DAT HIJ KON ONTSNAPFE

KONBIA HIJ WERD ECHTER (DOOR SCHOTEN??) CM HET LEVEN GEBRACHT TENEINDE

HEM DE VERANTWCORDELIJKEEID YOOR DE MOORD TE KUNNEN GEVEN OF ALTHANS

IN DIE RICHTING TE INSINUEREN DOOR DE HENSEN ACHTER DIT CONCLOT STOP

FET IS DUIDELIJK DAT NCORDASERIKAANSE REACTIONNAIREN CUBA EN DE NEREL

XET CEZET HET SLACHTOFFER NILDEN DCEN YORDEN ZELFS TEN XOSTE VAN HUN

EIGEN PREGIDENT STOP ZIJ HEBBEN OSWALD MAAR MEXICO GESTUURD OM EEN

DOORREISVISUM VCOR CUBA AAN TE VRAGEN OM DAARNA NAAR DE USSR TE ROIZE:

SIOF STELT U ZICH VOOR: DE MOORDENAAR VAN DE PRESIDENT ZOJUIST TERUG

JIT DE USSR EN REIST VIA CUBA STOF FET VISUM VOOR DE USSR XON HIJ LAT:

AANWRAGEN IN EEN DER LANDEN VAN BUROFA EN HCEFDE DUS NIET NAAR

• CUBA T:

KCMEN CM DAARNA NAAR DE USSR DOOR TE REIZEN; DAT IS EEN OMYEG.

Verder zei fastro: OP OF ONSDREEKS 1970 ZULLEN VIJ IN STAAT ZIJN DE

TIEN MILJOEN TON SUIKER TE PASSEREN EN DEZE UIT TE. VOEREN STOP DE

TOONOMIE. IS STERK AAN HET VERBETEREN STOP VOCZERRERWEEIR 966% HEBBEN #

SUIXER VOOR TIEN CENT VERKOCET STOP DIT JAAR EUEBOANSHDER NOGAy WIU.

ATTTT TAHIATT

---

## Page 5

13-00000

GEHEIM

MUSE OF DUTCH/'-IERICAN

SECIETT OFFICAIS ONLY.

SEENCT - RVBAD

Аб-56.

Setreft: Uitlatina SAiTOS MESA.

Vernonen word, dat do j8 Secretaris van de Azbassado van Cuba 1s

Den Zaag, Ricardo SAiTOS MESA, tijdens do rocoptia van do S.U. op 7

aovenber j.1!Peen vraag van één der aanrozigod naar de reacties van

CASTRO op do sasvallen van Cubaando balliagen op Cuba, antroorddo:

"Just walt, and you will see what ne cas do, it will haypon soon".

SANTOS weigorde hierop verder in te gaan.

Vernonen word 10f, dat SANTOS een broer heeft, die als "balling" in

• de Verenigde Staten van Noord iuerika woont.

doewel 2o1l pro-tastro, zou zija broer op aandriagon van zija

conservatiovo echtgeaote ziju uitgenexen.

Net deze broer zou SANTOS in briofmisseling staas.

2.12.63.

D222N

ESENSITIZED

si iuel

pOT 65:1 43-43

GEHEIM

---

