{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

“/o4-10229-10430|

Le itz,
\ 118.60 77.40

19 hospteal days

ted Aeril 16,°1962, Pattane atated old iracture left efatas :
tone wan echulatery, Reart and Lunas weastives Discharged :
41 15, 1962.

Reccattted Apetl 16, 1962, chict complatse ahighe ear g acd | r
i Fein right ankla. Pztfent has Mietory of tractured luece port right
Lig (by shot gua) O20 year Ke Was Crested ot that tine by casting
«the Leg for eix cuntha. Xraye and Leb vork done und treated Bune
+ medically. Osteozsrosia of tha dirtal oat third vf thu tible und
foot. Patient dlocharged May 3, 1962 and reeutacd to clinte for. | on
medications etc. Pachent dischuegcd from clinlee iesstoraretiastaan

fra mexst) 12 hospital days” ea
R carne : %

+0 Adattted April 14, 1962 for exantnation and observetions }
i Tischarged April 15, 1962. Exeminzeton Kevealed Neurgza ||:

ond cevorance of rf{phe ulna nerva a7 result of gun sho
|’ Wound, Pathent went to Detroit.) | seicerete! -

+ ., -Tattene returned to Miamt ‘end was readmtteed July 12, 1962 |
for malfunction of acm und hend ead taken to surgery for — satdetaacary
explozation right radtal nerve and suture under general unease.‘

thetle. Discharged July 24, 1962 and being folloved by the

6 Doctor im his office. aes ert nee oe

fynakhorz., art) T hospital days: ae : . 239,90 1-48.00

Ste Ad@itted april 16, 1962 Epilepsy. Patient has history of | °
. encephal{tiae Lay work done, xraya Cakontand treated medically,
. Discharged April 21, 1962 and returned to the elinfe for .

6 medications. Doctor folloving case in his office. i aersstesatecatctanecal of ie
‘TIncae, rung), Bhospttat days |. annenicannin 212.10 57.95

|, Saveral clinte visits for lob work, medictnea and Rerayde
“+ Admbeted May 6, 1562 with infected ronsile. Performed T&A
and diecharged Kyy 9, 1962 and returned to clinte for further -, . oy

Peeeatia b medications. Patient discharged feom clinic. : Lo . ,
Kosa vateurm) 62 hospteal days 1,167.10 7.70

gee :
Adsitted April 14, 1962 for excalnetion cad obnervitions
Discharged April 15, 1962. Readattced April 17, 1962 for
"| for further excminatton and obvervatioas and discharged
*  Aprll 22, 1962, . :

REadmteced May 3, 1962 chief complaint cupuration of left lover 7 eect

leg. About I veex prior drainage began spontaneously, Szquestrum xine cy
ctbta done and ‘patient was discharged June 28, 1962. Me returned :

to clinfe for medication and treatnent and {s st{ll a clinic

paticat.”- « lies sleraitt ‘| ite

j STATEMENT FROM MERCY HOSPITAL FoR PERTOD 14 April thru 15 Aug. 1962
@)

