# 104-10215-10161

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10215-10161

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

P

R

SECRET

RECONO NO.

INVENTORY - MOM STAFF PERSONNEL

2

3

ARBITRARY MO.

SUBJECT'S 2FI

201-

OTHER FILE MO.

332676

SURMAME

B

IST MAME

PERSOMALIA

OTHER GIVEN MANZ/TELECODE

AMHINT/56

COUNTRY OF BIR:.!

C

DATE OF BIRTH

CITIZENSHIP

Cuba

COUNTRY CURRENTLY RESIDES

D

6 May 39

CITY CURREMTLY RESIDES-YEAR

Cuban

MARITAL STATUS (mont recant)

USA

OVERT OCCUPATION

Miami 65

LANGUAGE

E

Married

LANGUAGE

Rodman

MILITARY SERVICE• COUNTRY

Span R,W,S

BRANCH OF SERVICE

Engl R,H,S

INCLUSIVE DATES

USA

COUNTRY AREA KNOWLEDGE

Army

COUNTRY

6

62-63

COUNTRY

Cuba

H

FUNCTIONISS PERFORMIO FOR AGENCY (IlalA tO 62 apaCeO)

Commando small boat operator

FUMCTIOMISI PERFORMIO TOR AGENCY (HIBlE lO 62 APACER)

CONTRACT EMPLOYER

TYPE IMPLOYEE CONTRACT EMPLOYEE MIFE

TYPE A OR A

MAINTEMANCE/SERVICE

COMSULTANT

PROPRIETARY OR SUBSIDY

FIELO AGENT

MOS. FF OR UST

INDEPEMDEMT CONTRACTOR

Yes

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

Yes

HOS COMPOMENT RESPONSIBLI

USF

РОд

STATUS

STARE CLEARANCE

FIELD STATION RESPONBIBLE

PROJECT

WH

ENTRY ON DUTY DATE

Have

YEARLY SALARY

DATE LAST PAY CHANCE

Aug 62

PAR OF A ПЕТ

$3,600

SPECIFY (linil to 62 apaceo)

Jan 66

USSS

DATE TERMIMATIO

REEMPLOYASLE

STATE CEILIMO SPACE

REMARNS (20:

Afе.) (11a88 to 82 appers)

FORM

4-88 2457

SECRET

4

TYPE OF NAME

C

MATURALIZED-US

(yes or pondind)

SEX (NOT ?)

M

LANGUAGE

CODE

PM

CODE

FULL, PART TIME

OR TAE

CAREER AGENT

МОС/МОА

MOC

CSA/PCSA

'COVER

Nonoff

ATTITUDE

18-808

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Зай-С-Р-Е-Т

NAME FANCIESO, BLANCO Fernandez

DATE OF JEDI ,28 ARgust I962... ERICAION

DASE OF BIPTA 6. Mar. 1939.

AGZ :23

12: J58 R1shi: sehool, ? Jears Lea, UnIT. Of Havana

CASE OFFICER. GrOzLer

FORMER OCCUPATION(S! . . §cadent . .

PROJECIED ASSIGNVENT .

Infiltration, slagleton

MILITARY TRAINTO

Поде,

CLANDESTIKE PXPERIENCE

.. About to JeRra DiE Las1de;, GH laader his hona area, but so action;

.. o morts with Ill 1n Maud, vas on rald of Havena 24 Angust 196e, :

SPECIAL SKILLS

• Бола.

...

in performance

INTELLECTUAL LEVEL (BY US STANDARDS) • ANQVE BrETAgE tO E

verage, considerable verdability/

INTELLBCTUAL LEVEL, (BY STADARDS OF CURANS ASSESSED ILl 1950). Above average

SUITABILITY FOR ASSIGNANT. QUEStIOn raised concerning abllity to perfor eftectively..

• • • Mitbout strong gutdance. . . ..

CONCATS

In1s I8 One Of the individnala ino participated last seek In the DRE reld on

HavaRE. He hed so lendership role, went along as a riflense, stayed on the larger

of the tho vessels while the saller moved in for the shelling. At no time vare they

he held up vall under tats stress, as he had as past jobs inalde, althouga be fas

nervous befare and after.

subject becans involved in the DRE In 1959 then 1t grew up in Cuba, 81s 10

rediate associates wire students at the UnIverBity Of Havana than he had baot far

gears, attending the Balen College under the Jesults as boys. His participation in

this group appears to have been primerily as a "coordinator," that elusive role which

appasss to san interacting ulth others and talking about that to do but not becarding

lovolved is sch estivity. He claims to have participated in one or tuo minor bombings.

Later ho was till lender fox his group In Pinar del Blo (before the invasion) -n0 fight-

1N5, but organizetion and preparation. The group broke up 1n 1961 after the Invasion

and he tant into the Venezialan Embasay and later on tò the Do So

Motivation for the proposed assigment of InfIltration 1s based upon above ex.

perience and recent livolvement 1n the DRE activities--the recent rola ves hie first.

trip back'to Cuba, he claims. He leo takes pride in his grandfather baring been

'senator"et one tire in Cuba and his older brother having boen national chief of

Buypart for the MiR 1n Cuba prior to the invasias..

(ils father died whas he was about

five years of ege.) These are nodels which he is pushing himself to keep up vita.

He prefers rata-and-coumando types of assignments 11 such are possible. "If not he

expresses & illlIngness: to go on en infiltration lasion provided he has assurance that

It 18 part of an overall organized plan that has a posslbillty of lending to the

lorntall of Castros.: He voald sot want to go in to remain In place, 11 the objective

fare merely for intelligence uithout being part of & plat.

Intellectaally, this indiridual's performince is cheracterized by great velebility

is vill absorb Information fairly rapidly and he should shor good practical. judgemen

In most dell problems. Forever, any performance requiring analyals of a probler and

coordination of tional perception with namal desterity such as in the assembly Of a

201-332676

•ESULT. 1.

6Ng1a:25 a2d

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SOMET

FrAnCISCO BLANCO Fernandez.

reapon, notor, ote. In most difficult for him. On certain test problems of this

type, he froze completely,

and deterlorated to almless novenents. His menory

of mumbers and recall of desigas which he was required to drav were poor com-

pared to his other abillties. However, he appears capable of relating a clear,

logacal sequence of events.

All In all, this Individual does not have sach leadership potential in terma

of expertence, self-confidence and drive; he needa strong guidance. He feels he

mast. do southing and 18 pushing himself to volunteer provided he can get re-

assurence that his job 18 part of a bleger plan. Although he l8 sincere and

basically & bright person, his performence is apt to very a good deal and at

timas become confused and almost immobilo.

Bessment and Evalustion Start

66458 1

661.90.93

2ed

SECRET

---

## Page 4

4-00000

S-E-C-ROE-T

SPECIFIC QUALINES

ADOVE

Avarage

AVETagO

Average

1o His rosard of clandastios activity l0 Lapreraito

2. Hls ganeral part record 13 IMpressIVO

3o His notivation 1s sowd

4o He vIll have antimislann for the vort

So Be is fond of riat and aáventur

6. He will be a goal fighting solder ..

To He 1s an astivo typo ..

8. HO CAR LIVO Off the Land ....

9o He bill perform tell under stress

10. He will be fally easy to got along vith

No He vill malo a good tena master ..

12. He vill Pollon oders ...

13. He vill be soldie do pertorance the on produets).-

14, He Vill salstain a steady norals throughout ..........

15. He will be determined and vill persevere

Iã, to has plenty of personal initiativa

Ilo le 10 sapable of acting indepeniontly but rodo guidanco...

18, He do Capable Of assuming respons1b111ty Under goidenco ..

19. Fo volcases responsibility . ..

20. He can coumand otbars ....

21. He will make a good organizer

22. He has good planning abslity

23. He 18 8 doctelta type of persor

34. He 18 alear thinking

25. He uses bls intelligence to best advantago

26. Но roports his general bealth as

2T. to has selfoconfldence..

23. He 18 emotionally otable

Add1tlonel Conments

S-E-C-R-E-T

Excindea hia astral!:?

10an Traing and

038.950:19527

---

