“404-10216-10208)

paces

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATI

RI
(then Filled tn)

‘BLBIECT OF DOCUVEAT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

ps
RI FILE NO.

3. OISPATEN Om SOURCE OC. svuBOL nO. To

FT sonnet ae DATE OF male EVALUATION

yo. O1SstmINATEO Tm fin. oate

s aatvaT i ‘Oave PROCESSED

DOCUVENT DISPOSITION

13. TRANSFERRED TO
#1 FILE No.

‘GROSS REFERRED TO THis FILE

INCOMING: If.
which requires carding.
Gf sensitivity of the
1e RID Ma:
quiced, check box 13." Return to g1D/SD ©:

the

Staple thie fc YBAT dispatch.

Ys MAME (Leet, First, widdle) on gavetonya Api 901 Roce iF AGGIGIED pW GURNEY VC
e Ames (aol-252>3/") #7 see 182
ear ae [Nea ap
20/- : Ae
Tac FE cere etal

3. PLACE OF BIRTH > Te CiTIzENSmP

13 ALT Oe

AUT crose-célecence sheet to be Tiled in Tl)

“8. FIELD FILE NO. *, ter

11, SUMGIARY OF INFORWATION

Ah re Clow alirctrr dey prmensl on
bite amspanr |) ue Regus 1962.

ee OF BOSC

oy 7, Tite

YBAT CARDING DATA

FELD CARD REQUIRED

SECRET

Saddeet, Rgeeo Trae SS reres



ECR
(then Filed tnj

DOCUMENT. TRANSFER AMD CROSS REFERER

‘SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

z
RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATEH O8 SOURCE DOC, svuGOL NO. [4 DATE

EVALUATION

nor Staff personnel. the attached document containe infor:
foraation on the subject to be carded in the spaces
f

1 “Staple this form to envelope of the gvpAT dispatch.

+ NAME (Lest, Firat, Middle) on cRyeTonvm ANO 201 NO, 16 ASSIGNED OR SUBJECT TITLE.

(20¢-as cron

Oh
emcee T. pocoweKT syw

at, O£PA- 671 A)

6. DOCUMENT DATE 7, CITIZENSHIP

23 vd é
Tae we. (Th erols-relere at to be Tiga

B07 R99 Geb fArer yy?

By PLACE OF BIRTH

8, FIELD FILE WO.

10, © AND AKA'S.

i eeep Hao Ral aay Teeny Wy Mey ae Pe “4 AAAS | Bo

i sricsanse ntentine ee Yate ani Ne Eee mE ESPERO

Md Ap fUlasiart-| 2~ Raguct (762.

13. PROCESSING NOT REQUIRED

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

fier 867 ose

