# 104-10013-10318

## Page 1

1704-10013-10318

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

20 January 1964

MEMORANDUM TO. Mr. Clark D. Anderson, Legal Attache

FROM

SUBJECT

: Winston M. Scott

; Lee Harvey OSWALD

1. Raference la made to MI. Anderson's mamorandum of 11 January

1964 requesting that cortain information be obtained from Cosumel.

2. The following reply was received on 17 January 1964 from

Jack Stewart in Merida:

a. Daniel SOLIS is a well known municipal policeman in Cozumel.

.: ... He has been in this position for the past eleven (11) years. He has a good

reputation.

b. Daniel SOLIS stated that he had no knowledge of any person

ramed Ylario ROJAS Villanueva. Daniel SOLIS' wife has an uncle who is

named Eladio VILLANUEVA Ramirez and is from Guadalajara. SOLIS

believes this uncle was originally from Manuel Doblado, Guanajuato.

This uncle visited SOLIS in Cozumel about the first two weeks in June 1963.

The uncle arrived by bus to Puerto Juarez and by boat to Cozumel. He was

"broke", seeking work. He was without luggage, had only the clothes be

wore. The uncle said his suitcase had fallen from the top of the bus into

the water at as unspecified ferry crossing en route to Merida. The uncle

said the suitcase contained some "important papers" and all his personal

belongings.

c. Daniel SOLIS housed and fed this uncle and got him a job

(temporary) as a bricklayer's assistant. The uncle worked in Cozumel

until about mid-June 1963 and then left for Vera Cruz by boat.

d.. The present whereabouts of this uncle are unknowa to Daniel

SOLIS. SOLIS gave him some clothes and $500 (peros) upon departure.

•. While at the home of Daniel SOLIS, the uncle wrote three

letters to the akipper of the ferry boat trying to recover his suitcase;

SECRET

Excluded from automatic

#7117

sungrading and

cec assification

Files p-8593

---

## Page 2

13-00000

FORET

-2-

but he received no reply. The uncle sent no other mail and he received no

mail during this time.

The uncle had no notebook of any kind.

f. The uncle had no contact with any Cubans in Cozumel as far as

SOLIS knows. His only associates were a Mexican Air Force Sergeant

named "Polo" and his bricklayer boss, Leonel VILLANUEVA (no relation).

8. The uncle, Eladio VILLANUEVA Ramires, is described by

SOLIS a8: 30 years old, 5'8", abait 185 pounds, stocky, skin "moreno".

black straight hair, mustache and with a long face. He usually works as

a chauffeur or farmer. SOLIS said Eladio VILLANUEVA Ramires did not

seem subject to aberrationa.

3. Neither Daniel SOLIS nor any of several other contacts in Cozumel

have heard of "Albert".

?......1

•імо. с..!:

THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A CONEIDENTIAL SOURCE. IT MUSI NOT

BE DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE OR IN PARI OUISIDE YOUR OFFICE

WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFFICE IN MEXICO

CITY®

Distribution:

Orig & l: Addressee

1: 50-2-4-1

1: P-8593 (OSWALDN

wms/ dh

SECRET

$7117

---

## Page 3

R-09000

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIONTO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCENT

RE: LEE HARVEY OSWALD

2. It is requested that the following investigation be

conducted at Cozumel:

Determine whether a municipal policeman named

DANIEL SOLIS actually exists and is living and working in

Cozumel.

If SOLIS does exist, determine whether he is

acquainted with YLARIO ROJAS VILLANUEVA, a 31-year old Mexican

citizen residing in Guadalajara.

&. Determine whether SOLIS has a notebook in his

Latter has alleged having

1963, to have known SoLIs there, to have seen OSWALD on two

different occasions there, and to have written down in a

notebook the names of three Cubans with whom he was in

contact in Cozumel and the full name of ALBERT LNU, an alleged

official of the American Government said to have been in

contact with OSWALD in Cozumel.

called if gon

64

clack

r

64

8-8593

---

