# 104-10173-10166

## Page 1

104-10173-10166

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DONE SCENE AT CI: MAUUARTENS SY

FILE TITLE/NUMHEY/VOLU::

KING

20- 710466

KINg, MARtIN

20

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/ LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF AVY:

KEVINED BY

RECHIVED

RETURNED

(PRINT NNIE)

SOMER TO DO ANE RICiN LUDLEY

22 SeAts 22 Syrig

Willian A. felts

tense sailar

STONATURE OF

REVIEVING OFFICIAI.

iS Safene

NO NOCUMENTS MAY BE CONTED DE BAROND IRON THIS MILI.

---

## Page 2

14-0000

CENTRAL INTELLIGINC AGENCY

DOCUMENT RECEIPT

teR OI DOCUMENES!...

• NOTICE TO RECIPIENT

9:a and 'Rotum; os Shovin on Reveria Side

юби

ADO

Deputy Director for Plans:

DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT(S) SER

CIA NO-

MENT DATE

COPIES:

DOCUMENT, TIME'":

0 8

CSCI 316/01702-68

DATA-SENT

3

$

1550

Papict

Federal

Investicatior

ROom 845

--Riddell

Bldg:

1730

K

streot,

Maghlngton,

N.f.

D.C.

B 615

RECIPIENT

SIGNATURE (ACH

VOGINO RECEUT OF

VE DOCUMENTIS!!

orrice

0F RECEIFI

2 MaS 1258

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET:

2 MAY 1363

MRNORANDUN FOR:

Director

roderal Buroau of invostigation

SUBJECT

8 De. Martin Luther BING, Jr.

number 91270 datod 23 Aprti 1968 concerning the assassi

natiou of Dr. Martin Luther RING, Jr.

2

On 16 April Roderick Claflin BROWN, a Panamantan

natlonal born 1 July 1917 In British Honduras, voluntarly

appeared at the Dopartnent of Nattonal Investigations (DENI)

of the Ropublic of Panama and signed a deposition, the

highlighta of which are as follows:

(1) On 36 October 1962 he served as cook/seaman

aboard the Texaco S.S. Southhampton which docked at Mobile,

Alabams:®

132632

(2) Phile on a shore vialt to the Mobile airport

on the morning of 26 October 1962 in the company of two:

follow Panamanian season, he was approached by Marvin P:

LITTreLL, Omer of LITTRELL Motor Co., 921-25 South Clinton

Stroet, Athons, Alabam, who after ascertaining BROWN was

& Pananantan seaman, asked' if he know of Di. Martin Luther

KING, Is.

(3) LItTrolL inquired whether BROWN was interested

In omployment.

the details of which vere unspeclited.

To ta unite deach Pou one

KING ag "Our greatest problen who

He save BROwN a bustness card

to use in the event ho vas interested in pursuing the employ:

risent offer:

(4) On 38 January 1963 BROWN rOtO LITTRELL Prom

New York City, stating be was interosted in a Job and

SEURET

cassioni

---

## Page 4

14-00000

than 540 by bus.

(s) After diecuasions with a relutive and frienda

In Noy York CIty, BROWN suspected that the LITTrEll job

offer vas related "ith assaisination plans for Dr. BING.

Thorefore he did not respond to the littrell lottor and

disnissed the inoldent untll the death of pr RiNg ta

Apr11 1968. BROWN returned to Panama in 1986.

Enclosed for your intornation is a copy of the

LITTRElL lotter and the Spanish language deposition made

by BROWN, as woll as an English translation of the deposition

as descrlbod in paragraph 2 of the referenced out nessage.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR YOR PLANS.

Simed: Juries R. Hunt

JANES ANGLETON

CSCI-316/01702-68

3 Enclosures

WB/2/Panama/G. Hodges:cib

2. May 1968

Distributión:

• Orig & 1 - Addressee; watts

1 - CI/R&A (Dummy)

1 - CI/LIA (Dunny)

2 - CI/OPS/DO, w/atts

WH/2/Panama

Based on:

PANAMA CITY 6180 (IN 97566)

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

WHEN FH:ED.MN

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTSUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

Fill in Sert. 2. on back. Dolach back flap

and forwärd io RID:

2.

Dostroy liont cover aheel. unloss it rocorda

signiticant action laken or commonts roquin

ing preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il file na and tille slown are not proper,

insert proper tile no. below and forward

document io SID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL AODRESSEES

ILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IN ADTMOPRIATE

COMMENTS

3 с. t0 с/ін.

TO.

ROON

NO..:

1.

DATE,

Ófficia's

RICEIVID

15 Am isna Dic

PIE.

ETi

TUTE, FOR FENDE

c/alle 06-

is 001

EAT 89:68.2.49

C:3: NIX (11)

Piafs

1ід іNзG

MICROFILMED

APR 15 1968

DOC. MICRO, SER..

8-6=ic.c.26ulet

ic retainer fe wilkoo fite

10.

16, ARN 1958

- Art..

23A88

RID/EDI

(108/00

51. 555

FILE TITLE

into

201-760966

X=6 to 19-4-105-

DE3T

ABSTRACT K

Rela y

19-4-105

019-404-105

17:

RID/F1

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICANTILMED

---

## Page 6

14-00000

3P

SECRET TELEPOUCH

DISP NO

• -UFGA-29884

FILE NO

- NONE

DATE

- 60 APRIL 1968.

INDEXING

- NONE

MICROFILMED

APR 1 5 1968

DOC. MICRO. SER.

MICR OF ILM

NONE

TO

CHIEF,

WH DIVISION

INFO

CHIEF, WH/COG - CHiEF, NOLIME

FROM

- COS, IMWAVE

SUBJECT

O SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF DEATH OF MARTIN

5.-?.

LUTHER KING, JR,, LAO APRIL 1968

REFERENCE - UFGA-29877

IN ADDITION TO THE SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGÉ OF THE

MARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION TRANSMITTED IN REFERENCE, THE

FOLLOWING SUMMARY FOR 8-9 APRIL HAS BEEN FURNISHED BY THE AMOTS -

OM GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE ONE - ISMOBILIZATION OF 55, 00B

TROOPS TO REPRESS THE NEGROES® A THE ARTICLE REPORTED ALL THE

DISTURBANCES WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE

DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING

GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3A JUVITH THE ASSASSINATION OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING THE IDEOLOGY OF NON-VIOLENCE HAS DIED"• A AN

INTERVIEW WITH FLOWD MCKISSICK, NATIONAL DIRECTOR Of THE

CONGRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY /CORE/ JUTHIS SIMPLY MEANS THAT

NON-VIOLENCE HAS CEASED AS A MEANS OF FIGHTING. THE PEOPLE

CANNỘT BE TÀUGHT TÓ BE NON-VIOLENT WHILE WE ARE INVOLVED IN

A VIOLENT WAR, IN VIETNAM. NOM-VIOLENCE CANNOT BE PREACHED TO

• JHE ELACK PEOPLE WHO HAVE TO FACE VIOLENCE EVERY DAY ON THE

STREETS OF THIS COUNTRY. ' THIS WAS SAID IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSA-

TION BETWEEN RADIO HABANA AND FLOYD MCKISSICK. WHEN ASKED ABOUT THE

POSSIELE CONSEQUENCES OF THE ASSASSINATION OF KING; MCKISSICK RE-

FLIED - JUI REPEAT THAT WE ARE MAKING NO PREDICTIONS; BUT THE

SECET TELEPOUCH UFGA -29884 PAGE ONE

19-44-105

16z913:

---

## Page 7

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA -29884 PAGE THO

AMERICAN NEGRO IS NOT WILLING TO CONTEMPLATE: IMPASSISLY THE ASSASSI

NAT JON

OF OUR LEADERS, OUR HEROES, AND OUR PEOPLE:

EM GRANA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A ARTICLE BY JUAN MARRERO ENTI-

TLED, JITHE AMERICAN NEGROES ARE VRITING THEIR FINEST PAGE OF

HER OIST.

JAGAINST ALL THAT AND MUCH MORE, THE NEGROES ROSE

TODAY IN MORE THAN SIXTY CITIES, AND IT IS LOGICAL TO EXPECT NEW

PAGES OF HEROISM STOKELY CARMICHAEL, THE

NEGRO LEADER, GAVE THIS

WARNING ONE DAY AFTER THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING - JWHAT

KAPPENED ON THE NIGHT WE LEARNED OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DR KING

IS NOTHING COMPARED TO WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN. JU

RA GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JUTHE WIDOW OF LUTHER KING HEADS

THE MARCH IN MEMPHIS.* THE ARTICLE TELLS ABOUT THE MARCH AND

SHOWS PHOTOGRAPHS OF IT.

ÍM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL /ISS A.M./ A SUA TENSE

CALM REIGNS IN THE U.S. BUT IT IS A PRELUDE TO SERIOUS EVENTS:

NATIONAL MOURNING DECREED BY LYNDON JOHNSON FOR YESTERDAY, U APRIL,

MÄRKS A LESSENING OF DEMONSTRATIONS WHICH ARE EXPECTED TO START UP

AGAIN AT ANY MOMENT

YM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL 1955 A.M. A JU UFORWARD

WITH BLACK POVER UNTIL CAPITALIST MISERY, THE FUNDAMENTAL CAUSE OF

HUMAN INJUSTICE, IS OVERTHROWN' SAID THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF CHILE

IN A CABLEGRAM SENT TO THE AMERICAN NEGRO LEADER, STOXELY CARMICHAEL,

ON THE OCCASION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING:

UM RADIO LIBERACION, I APRIL 11230 POM.I A THIS

NEWSCAST

REFERS TO A DEMONSTRATION IN WHICH LED LATIN AMERICAN, ASIAN, AND

• AFRICAN STUDENT'S WERE SAID TO HAVE PARIICIPATED IN FRONI OF THE

U.S. ENZÄSSY IN WARSAW, POLAND, AS A PROTEST OVER IHE DEATH OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING.

MARX F. EFFIELD

DISTRIEUT ION

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE INO

---

## Page 8

SECRET TELÉPOUCH UFGA-29284 PAGE THRÉE

V•IA TELE POUCH

3 A C/WHO

2 A C/WH/COG

2 A C/NOLIME

SECRET TELEPOUCH ÜFGA-29884 PAGE THREE

BT®

---

## Page 9

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD. SHEET

INSTHUCTION!

PRIOR TO FILING

1.

Fill in Soil. 2. on back. Detach Lack flap

aid forward to RID.

Dostroy tron! cover sheel, unless it records:

signiticant action taken or comments roquir.

ing preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il fle no. and titlo shown aro not proper.

insert proper tile no. bolow and forward

document to RID/AN.

FROPER FILE NO.

RID AN

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SICTION I ON. BÁCK. IP APPROPRIATE

002.6.1

... то .?

POON

NO

DATE:

CRIvED.

KAR

orgicei

* INITIALS

3 ccto C/KH

WH REGE

N/104/c06

1542021568

ISA. TA 1295299

02

8,P0.

6520.18.1,09

10. 7001

(hed (9)

PLIS

Bille/PP

MICROFILMED

APR: 15 1988:

DOC. MICRO, SER:

8 - 6 = 10c routes:

-16. APIR 1969

19.

81/31/klabor

*10 ED

(1Og D0

15.

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

25509

9.4:

X-ref into 19-4-105.

Declarity

19-4-105

PS-

15.793

ABSIRACT

019-004-105

TAHIMANY COCTI

2

G.

---

## Page 10

14-00000

51

SECRET TELEPOUCH

DISP NO

• -UFGA-29877

FILE NO

"NONE

DATE

- 8A APRIL 1968

INDEXING: = NONE

MicROFILMED

APR 15.1965

DOC. MICRO-BER.

MICROFILM

• NONE

TO

CHIEF, UH DIVISION

INFO:

- CHIEF, WHICOG - CHIEF, WOLICE

FROM

CHIEF OF STATION, UMWAVE

SUBJECT

D. SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF THE DEATH OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING, TAI APRIL 1968

THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN

LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN

PREPARED BY THE AMOTS-

AN GRANTA PRAVANA DAILY NEWSPAPER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF

CUBA/, I APRIL 68, FRONT PAGE - LAST MINUTE NEWS - MARTIN LUTHER

KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A. ACCORDING TO FIRST REPORTS,

LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE."•

Y:

Lt GRANMA, A APRIL, FRONT PAGE - *TUENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE

BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN

GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHING-

TON ALONE THERE ARE 750 WOUNDED AND 4,186 PERSONS ARRESTED: SNIPERS

CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT CITIES IN THE U.S.

THE WHITE

HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUARD •

FULL INFORMATION

GIVEN./

EM. GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - "TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP

• BROWN."•

"MASHINGTON, I APRIL, ASSOCIATED FRENCH. PRESS - AFP,

FRENCH NEWS AGENCY AMX LEAFLETS WERE DISTRIBUTED HERE THIS MORNING,

URGING THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF WASHINGTON. TO GO TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE

RAP BROWN. '' JUTHE LEAFLETS CALLED ON THE NEGROES TO FORM A MOTOR-

CADE AND LEAVE FOR RICHMOND TOMORROW, MONDAY. '

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA - 29877 PAGE-ONE

(14064-105

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA -29877 PAGE TWO

GRANTA, & APRIL, LAST PAGE - ARTICLE ENTITLED •PRINCIPAL

NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS IN THE U:S.'', BY JUANA CARRASCO. IME ARTICLE:

SAYS THAT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO TWO GROUPS • THE

VICENT ONES AND THE NON-VIOLENT ONES. IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING

AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE THE USE OF VIOLENCE - CONGRESS OF FACIAL

EQUALITY /CORES, STUDENT NON-VIOLENT COORDINATING COMMITTEE /SNCC/,

BLACK MUSLIMS, BLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSTONE RANGERS, THE ALERT

PATROL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT RAM/, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE

DEACONS, AND "'THE U.S."' THE FOLLOWING NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS AÑE

MENTIONED ANONG THOSE WHICH ADVOÇATE NON-VIOLENCE - NATIONAL ASSO-

CIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED. PEOPLE INAACP/, NATIONAL

URBAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

I SCL C/ •

ÉT GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - ATTEMPES ARE BING MADE TO

BLAME CARNICHAEL FOR THE OUTBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN THE U,S.

DIT GRAMMA, TAPRIL, LAST PAGE - SARACIAL CLASHES BETWEEN NEGRÒ

AND WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN.

UT GRANNA, PAPRIL, LAST PAGE

-JOTHE AMERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE.""

IF GRANA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE

• MARTYRS OF THE NEGRO

STRUGGLE

9:

RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO /HAVANA RADIO STATIONSI,

6 APRIL, FUR A•HO AND 12 NÓON - ""THE CHIEF OF THE MISSION TO CUBA

OF THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT HAS

SENT A MESSAGE

TO AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF THE LEADER, MARTIN LUTHER

KING: IHIS MESSAGE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED AGAINST

• MARTIN LUTHER KING UNMASKS THE EVIL FACE OF THE RULERS AND RACISTS

OF THE UNITED STATES.'•

'THE MESSAGE. OF THE VIETNAMESE MISSION IN

HAVANA ENDS BY SAYING THAT, WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING,

ALL THAT HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULENS DE THE UNITED STATES

IS TO POUR GIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF THE STRUGGLE UF AFRO-AÑERICANS,

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA - 29877 PAGE THO

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SECRET "TELEPOUCH UFGA-29E77 PAGE IHREE

AND: THAT THE SE FLAMES

ARE RISING VIOLENTLY TO PUT AN END TO ALL THE

OPPRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH

IS-FOUND IN

THE UNITED STATES, WHICH

HINDERS THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIUNS OF PEOPLE IN THE ENTIRE

COUNTRY®

API: RADIO LIBERACION, YAPRIL, REP P.M. - STOKELY CARMICHAEL,

LEADER OF BLÄCK POVER, SAID - SUE NEGROES MUST ARM OURSELVES WITH

RIFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF THE

CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION.

CARMICHAEL PREDICTED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE STREETS AS

A RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICTED. THAT THE

VIOLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S

DEATH WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAI WILL HAPPEN iN AMERICÁN

CITIES.

CANT RADIO HABANA, I APRIL, X'P-M I ANIS /KING'S DEATN SHONS

ONCE AGAIN THAT THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER REACTIONARY

VIOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE.

LET RADIO PROCRESO, APRIL, REE POM. I SICARNICHAEL SAID

DURING À TELEPHONE INTERVIEW. THAT •A SERIOUS MISTAKE HAS BEEN MADE

IN ASSASSINATING DR. KING BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE-

MENT WHICH URGED THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES NOT IO BURN

THE CITIES, NOT"TO COMMIT ACIS OF VIOLENCE. THIS MEANS THAT IT WILL

BE NECESSARY TO START AN ALL-OUT REVOLUTION. CARMICHAEL ADDED -

•SERIOUS INCIDENTS HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE

BEEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEAIHS

., AS A RESÚLT OF THE CRIME

COMMITTED AGAINST DRO KING. NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL

• TAXE PLACE. GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD THROUGH THE CITIES

BECAUSE IT IS ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANNOT OPENLY REBEL AGAINST

THE POLICE. • STOKELY CARMICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEW BY SENDING

AFFECTICNATE REGARDS IO IME REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN PEOPLE AND THEIR

LEADER, FIDEL CASTRO RUZ."•

SECREI TELEPOUCH UFGA -29877 PAGE IHREE

---

## Page 13

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FOUR

13. RADIO HABANA, I APRIL, PIN. A DÉJUAN MANIA BRAS,

SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENT FOR IHE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO

RICO, MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS IN A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE

INTERVIEW - ADR. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBTEDLY PRE-

CIPITATE THE REBELLION OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES

AGAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN THE OBJECT:

ORM RADIO HABANA, S APRIL, & POM. ASTHE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAI

OF THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANI-

ZATION /AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE. OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE

ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER XING.

•"THE AALAPSO'S MESSÄGE TO THE

AMERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A OWE BEG YOU TO

EXPRESS TO THE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS

OUR DEEPEST SORROW OVER HIS DEATH, OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR

STRUGGLE; AND OUR DEEP CONVICTION THAT THIS TERRIBLE CRIME--WHICH

SHOWS US THAT ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEV-

ING GENUINE LIBERATION--WILL HELP STRENGTHEN THE STRUGGLE OF THE

AFRO-AMERIÇAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF À

TOTAL CONFRONTATION.

SE RADIO HABANA, APRIL, I.P.M. SAGUSTIN GONZALEZI

MARTINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

STATEMENIS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW " MAY THE TRAGIC DISAPPEARANCE

OF THIS GREAT LEADER AT LEAST HELP TO SPEED UP THE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY

WHEN EVERY MAN IN HIS NATION AND IN ALL OTHER NATIONS WILL BE TREATED

WITH THE RESPECT WHICH IS DUE TO THEN AS HUMAN BEINGS. BB

RAMA RADIO HABANA, I APRIL, I P.M. A REVEREND RAFAEL PASTOR,

• OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN LUYANO, HAVANA, MADE THE FOLLÖWING

STATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - SHIS BROTHERS; THE AMERICAN.

VEGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FROM HIS DEATH. WE CAN ALMOST ASSURE THAI

THEY, THE AMERICAN NEGROES WHOSE DIGNITY AND DECORUM HAS BEEN

CRUSHED, WILL COME BACK TO LIFE AFTER CENTURIES OF LETHARGY AND

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA - 29877 PAGE FOUR

---

## Page 14

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FIVE

WILL RISE FROM THEIR GRAVES AND FORM AN INVINGIBLE AÑMY.' AN

GER RADIO LIBERACION, APRIL, IP.M. À EDITORIAL CONNENTS

CRITICIZING THE NON-VIOLENT LINE WHICH WAS ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING,

SAYING THAT THIS LINE WAS INOPERATIVE, JUMARTIN LUTHER

KING. DID NOT

PREACH VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS THE VICTIN OF VIOLENCE.. HE DID NOT

UNLEASH VIOLENCE BUT VIOLENCE MOWED HiM DOWN.

SIT RADIO HABANA, L APRIL 68, PEP POM. JOHNSON POSTPONED

HIS TRIP. HE CALLED THE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS -WHO WERE MORE QR

LESS UNDER CONTROL--TO GO TO THE WHITE MOUSE. JOHNSON APPEARED ON

TELEVISION. HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE:

INSPIRED COMMENTS ABOUT MARTIN LUTHER KING• THESE ACTIONS AND THESE

WORDS HIDE FEAR OVER THE WAVE OF JUST VIOLENCE WHICH IS STARTING TO

SPREAD THROUGH THE UNITED STATES. JAT A TIME WHEN COMPLEX INTER:

NATIONAL NEGOT LAT IONS MIGHT BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICÚLT CONDITIONS,

THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS THE CHASH WHICH DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE .

UNITED STATES AND INCITES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE

FAR-REACHING EFFECTS ARE. HARD TO PREDICI."

YATKE ASSASSINATION OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING CONFIRNS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALISI RACiSTS

IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECTIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY

STRUGGLE

MARK F. EFFIELD

DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH

3 A CAWID

• •2 A C/NOLINE

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FIVE

BT

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FLING

Fill in Sort. 2. on back. Delach back Hap

and lorward ir RID.

2.

Destroy tont cover sheet, unless it records

significant action takon or comments roquir.

ing proservation.

FROM:

•RID/ CR

- TO: ACTION. BRANCH

Il lie no. and tilo shown aro not proper.

Insert proper file no. bolow and forward

documail 1o RID/NN.CK

PROPER PILE NO.

TO. ALL' AODRESSEES

PILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

if

TO :

• uH/T DR

0..

tud

Steve.

5.

Piel

Vette

Rubi

C/OPS/ Do

75K

12..

file nikis

ROON

NO.

1:6 APR V968

DATE

вер.

CHRONO DETACHED

INDIA

MI2HES9( 198 Ine

cos 49 123.11

3L BEN (0

MICROFILMED

APR 15 1968

Pit

DOC. MICRO. BER:

please nons

siparate

Rapiting alip

Dik Ober

do stutt, after

17.

RHYT

ALOUIST

DATE MICAUTLNRS

32-y-16

022-004-016

PILK.

20=4/109136

ABSTRACT

196088

•SCA 07012

---

## Page 16

14-00000

DISPATCH

ELICOTICAIION

SECRET 4050R

PROCESSING

ACTIN

FLUS FOR MAXING

INFO

Chief, WH Division

NO NOTHING MOULAD

DREY QUALITIES

ELPRIANTIAS DISA

in trice interin

Chier of statton, Santo Danio SP.

'АКТіЧАСТ

„піхіі:

SUBLECTI

Communist Comments on the Death of Martin Luther King?

Reference to "Black Power" Concept:

AETION RIQUIRED: REFERENCES:

1.

Attached for Headquarters retention are one copy eact

f-statements.on the death of Martin Luther King by the Dominical

Communist Party (PCD), the Communist 14th of June Revolutionary.

Movement (MR-1J4), and various trade unions. All appeared

In the 7 April 1968 1ssue of El Nacional.

2.

The tent of the PCD statement makes reference to the

visit

of Stokely Carmichael to the Latin American Solidarity

Organization Conference (LASO). quotes statement by Fidel

Castro on Carmichael and the concept of "Black Power," and,

expresses the solidarity.of the PCD with the struggle of

North American Negroes.

The VR-1J4 statement;

only available

in gist, says that King's death reveals

the profound. crisis

existing within US söciety and shows

forces;

"violence.is

that for the "racist

"the only law and is applied to internal

and external enemies alike.

Neither statement issues a call to violence on the

part of US Negroes.

Prica & Faxien

you Stewart R. PATAKER

ATTACHMENT:

RE

As Stated Herewith Fio tel

ah diceusitized

DISTRIBUTION:

snis

3 = Chief; WH Division fig/att 7/v

3 - Files w/att

AP.R 1 5 196

PATT

Exciates t73 tateza!::

ES COPT

'CROSS REFERENCE TO

D: 22-4-13

SECRET

29-4-16

DATE TYPEO

DATE DISPATCHED

10 Apr. 68

DISPATON STABOL ANO MUSEBER

HDCA

7012

MENOQUARTEAS FRE ALRIBER

922-4-16-

---

## Page 17

14-00000

Condenan Ascsinato De

Martin Luther King

DOB

organizaciones izqulerdis.

lenclà revolucionarla

., que derram

las condenaron hoy in muerte del bara el sistema imperiallstá.

reverendo Martin Luther King:

EL -PCD demando.

"Eo

comunicados

de las organt

separados ol

zactonés polficas y sindicales des

Partido

Comunista Dominicano y

arrollar actividadeg

en apoyo a la

al Movimiento Revoluctonarlo 14

lucha de los negros norteamerica-

•de Judlo. dicen solldarizarse co

ol movimlento negro de los Esta.

Por su parte el 14 de Junlo con

dos Unidos.

airteró quo el asesinato del Premio

EL PCD señala qio el asestrato

Nobel de la Paz revela la profunda

del, líder pacifista la tonido "justa

crisis en que ha entrado la soclodad

respuesta®

en' la violancia desata-

norteamericans.

da en las Cludades más importantés

Demuestra,

segan el l4 de Junio,

de Los Estados Unidos que ha obll:

que para las fuerzas racistas la

•Bado a que' ol prosidente Jobnson

unica 'loy os la violencla y que'bsta -

cancelara su viaje al exterior para

es aplicada a todo enemigo inter-

conversáclones.de paz en Vietnam,

no d'externo que se revela contra

Dice respaldar la rebelión; y los

'al imperto brutal?

pronunciamientos dol. lider nogro

Entiende la orcanización política

Stokoly:Carmichael ya que el único

que

La

muerto del reverendo li

camino en los Estados. Unidos para ther Klog es una gran ensefianza

Ibrarse de la violencia de los mia

para los de Bu raza que sufren la

les que padece ese pueblo es la via

'opresión racista.

•іті т

---

## Page 18

PARTIDO COMUNISTA

DOMINICANO

IPCDI

iNuestra solidaridad plena

con la lucha de los negros

norteamericanos;

como parte que es de la lucha

de todos los oprimidos

de la tierra!

El régimen de los monopollos Imperialistas norteamericanos

50

conmuere

por la

acción

de los pueblos desde fuera con

Vietnam al frente, y desde dentro con el gran movimiento por los

derechos civiles y por. la pázi

El asestnato de Lüther King,

será presentado como la obra de lá mano fandtica de ún racista;

pero quida clara la responsabilidad de los Interesados en liqui.

dar. la

accioni civil por la violencia, de los interesadas en im.

poner la murdara a los reclamos del pueblo que cada vez más

lucha organizadamenté: y que compreride los objetivis de esa

lucha, de los munopolios imperialistas.

La rolencia engendra volencia, Muchos siglos de explota.

clón y de represión han pasado hasta que en los ditimos años

comienza gorraniar su resistencia

y en ello

en elo erpapel de er kenges regable, de los has alto:

morilos,

de la más encomiable

de "pas

Do: haja

sido

sonegacion,

aunqué su prédica

comprensible por todos los optimidos ni

la mas' apropiada como lo demuestra su su propia muerte.

constit

.en'los-Estados Unidos el sector mas

explotado de la clase obrera en el pure! de sueldos, en la dis.

criminacißn social

que asume formas raciales, en la propor.

ción

les que

pardcipan

en

el ejercito,

en los planes de

seguros sociales;

por lo que la discriminación y su respuesta

en la lucha por los derechos civiles tlene características esen

cialmente

clasistas aunque asuma

formas

raciales,'" por lo

que

crecienterente

este fenomeno es

comprendido pur las

propias

mesas blancas que apuyan los reclamos civiles de la

poblacisa de raza africana marginada de la sociedad.

---

## Page 19

FIdel Castro dijo en la clausura

de la Conforencia de la

Organización Launoamericana de Solidaridad, donde Stokely Cas.

michael representaba a los norteamericados organizados en el

"Poder Negro.

...Y es

que

de

ese

sector negro,

por ser el sector mas.

explotado: y reprimido, mas brutalmente

maltratado en Estados

Unidos; surgira la vanguardia revolucionaria en. el seno de los.

Éstados Unidos: y alrededor de ese mostmiento revolucionario,

que no surge en

ese sécior por probipinas de raza, sino que

surge

pur

el. problema

social, por, prúblema de explotacion y

opresion, y porque consultuye,

ese sector el mas sufrido, por,

lailey' de là historlá igual que en todas:las epocas de la hiso.

orta: como ocurrio con los, plebejus: en Roma, con los' slervos

de la gleba en la Edad Média, con los obreros y lus campe.

sinos en los tiempos.contemporáneas:, eu la sociedad americana,

de ese sector oprimido surgirá el movimiento revoluclonarto'.

Tan so o unos días han pasado desde el momento en qué

Johnson

anunciara

retiro

de su candidatura presidencial,

para fomentar la Ilusión de que los polRicos llamados liberales

llegarían

al poder en los próximos meses con su programa de

Paz en Vietnam y de respeto

la bala disparada contra

a los dérechos civiles, cuando

Luther King. culocara, su silbido de

vIolencia:comn la tónica de la polfica norteamericana inme.

diata: Los quo-tienen el poder, los monopollos armamestistas,

no lo dejarán: pacíficamente,

no permiuren la suspensión y

derrota

en la

guerra de Vietnam sta resistir pur todos los

modios, sin plantear su própla salida de violencia á todas las

masas, del mundo.

La muerte de Luther. King no es la obra de un fanático;

sino que signilica la política de un grupo soclal poderoso.

La muerte

de Kennedy en poco tempo se Indentificó con una

nueva politica. La muerte

de. Klag es en rasgo más de la in:

minencia' de nuevas y más feroces acctones. del imperialismo;

de. un entronizamiento de la

volencia en el poder estatal; que

sôlo sera vencida con el triunfo de los pueblos; y en esa lucha

al' pueblo negro norteamericano tendrá un importante papel que

jugar, luega ya un importante papel, del lado de todos los pueblos

del mundo.

Nuestra solldaridad plena con la lucha de los negros norteame.

ricanos;.

comio parte que es de la lucha, de todos los oprimidos

de la uerra!.....

as

18:

1a.

Đ/₴

"so

secretartado del Comiré Central del. Pärldo..

звіт

comunista Diminicano

881

Santo Domingo, 6 de abril de 1968

(ESPACIO PAGADO)

oresandnsad ouanurauss

t tA sinalo

BIANaSA CONSTESEA

*orfa

201

sol diad pupiliariods Ip no & truan

TÍ 89811

sult en en oroe

05817

13"(41V) 1H8 SP 9

"STÚY.

---

## Page 20

RESPALO PAGADO

¡PROTESTAMOS POR EL ASESINATO

DE MARTIN LUTHER KING!

¡SOLIDARIDAD CON LOS NEGROS EN LUCHA!

slartin Luther Kire, lider pacifista del movimiento negro norteamericano, pre.

mio Nobel de la: Paz, ha sido asesinado por los opresores de su pueblo 5 de todos

los pueblos explotados del Mundo.

SU DELITO: Luchar, pur la liberación de los negros, contra la discriminacion

racial,

contra las vejaciones y la esplotación que sufren sus hermanos de raza en

los Estados Unidos. Es el "delito" que le cargan quienes, gobleman para el mal a

todos aquelias que se retelai, que luchan por ia libertad.

La mierte de King la conmovido al Mundu porque evidencia en forma alarmante

hasta donde pueden

llegar los ricachones racistas que controlan el juiter en los

Estados Unidos

La vlolenta rebelara de los negros y de códis los democratas cor jeria de nuero

& estremecer la sociedad sorteamericana.

La soldaridad interrectonal con su causa se expresa en maltiples formes.

Y nosotros; las obreras dominicarais, elevamos.

nuestra vos, de protesta y

llamanos a la solidarided activacon toda manifestación de lucha, que dentro j fuera

de los Estados Unidos, exprese el repudio a ese hecho bochornoso:

Adoptamos esta sedad conscientes de que al sumamos a la protesta mundial

nos colocamos junço al sector mas oprimiido y vejado de la clase obrera porteame.

ricana: 105 trabajadores pegros.

Y de que nos situamos de frente à los poderasas

que: con hipocresía unos j, con cinismo otros, dicen lamentar, la muerte del Uder

negro, mientras preparaa las bayonetas para tratar desplastar la lucha desencade.

naca.

Nada han hecho los göberantes y oligarcas de nuestra terra en protesta por el

asesinato: de Luther: Kirg. Duelos Interminables hubleran realizadó si la acclon

justiciera de los pueblos bubiera terminedo con la vida de Jotinson o de otro magnate

de la explotación impenal sta. Pero Luther Ningera un representante de los segirs

explotados,

un luchados por los derechos ciriles de los negros que a su entender

no merecía homenaje alguso..

Sin embargo, Luther King lene en nosotros a sus répresentartes dominicanos,

a los que encamamos 'en esta derralos intereses del trabajo, y del progreso de toda

La

•humanidad i' por eso, en esta ocasión, lambien damos un paso al frente::

Llamamos a todos los bombrés honestos de nuestra Patrta a manifestar su

• solidaridad con la causa de lus uegros norteamericanos.

Llamamos a las demis organizaciones de trabajadores a repudiar el asesinato

de Luther King y a solidericarse con la lucha de los negros norteamericanos.

Llamamos a lä: Universidad Autónoma de Santo Domingo y a los ayuntamientos

democráticos del país, pars que, amparados en súautonomía, declaren tres días de

duelo por el asesinato de Lutber King.

Que en las fabricas, en las escuelas, en las oficinas y. en todos los centras de

trabajo se rinda homenaje al líder asesinado y se exprese nuestro apojo al pueblo

negro de los Estados Valdus que es eriminalmente colocado en la primera lies de

fuego en VietNam, al mismo dempo que en su proplo pafs se le somera a la reas

cruel explotacion.

- ¡MANTENGAMOS LA SOLIDÁRIDAD ACTIVA MASTÄ QUE NUESTROS HERMA

NOS NEGROS DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS CONQUISTEN TODOS SUS DERECHOS!

FEDERACION DE TRABWADORÉS REVOLÜCIONARIOS UNIDOS DEL

DISTRITO NÄCIONAL (FETRUDIANA)

FEDERACION NACIONAL DE TRABAJADORES PORTUARIOS

FEDERACION NACIONAL DE TRABAJADORES DE LA INDUSTRLA DE LA

CONSTRUCCIOY Y SUS AFINES (FENATRAICA):

SINDICATO PORTUARIO DE-LOS MOLINOS DÓMINICANOS'*

SINDICATO DE TRABUJADORES PORTUARIOS DE ARRIMO (POASI)

'SINDICATO DE TRABAJADORES DE LOS MÖLÍNOS DOMINICANOS:

SINDICATO DE LÀ SOCIEDAD INDUSTRIAL DOMINICÄNA (MANCERA)

ASOCIACION DE CROF ERES INDEPENDIENTES (ASOCHODY),

ASOCIACION DE EMPLEA

XS DE LA UNIVERSIDAD AUTONOMA

DE SANTO DOMINGO

SINDICATO DE TRABAJADORES TELEFONICOS

SINDICATO DE COBRADORES DE AUTOBUSES DE SANTO DOMINGO

SINDICATO DE OPERÁRIOS SASTRES DEL DISTRITO NACIONAL

SINDICATO DE OBREROS Y'EMPLEANOS DEL AYUNTAMIENTO

DEL DISTRITO NACIONAL

SINDICATO DE LA PAPELERA INDUSTRIAL

027-004-016 SINDICATO NACIONAL DE CARPINTEROS

022-064-011

delacinal

7 'prit 1968;

---

## Page 21

14-00001

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

UHALTSI

•DATE PROCESSRO

DISPATEN DU SOURCE DOG.

душкое-но.

1. OATE

DATE оf1nrо."о.

PNALUATION

I:. DATE

DOCLÄGENT.

DISPOSiTiON

KING.

MARTIN LUTHER

: 201-811911

1201-760966

OBC - 09700

SEX M

008

?

II MAR

68

CIT

F.BI

¡INFO RE-PLANS FOR A MASSIVE

CIVIL DiS

•OBEDIENCE DEMONSTRATION

THE NATIONS

CAPITAL

THIS SPRING

R 6803140388

194.611911

IG

B Ö704

1758

E$2

FILE IN 201-260966

I FILE NO.

SECRET

18. 801

---

## Page 22

DISPATCH

CLASTIIICATION

AVLAS E CRE T

INa

Chiet/Kusada

2533147

•FROW

Chief of strtten. iMWAVE

SUCT RYBAT/ FJDUST/ PBRUNEN/ AMFRISK

Surveillance on IDEN C

I REQUIRED. REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: For your information

PROCESSING

Posin

АСІЮТ

MANAID BOX INTERITE

NO 1421 RITE RIQUIRIO.

HEADORLETERS, NISH

"CAN MUCil INDEXiNE

ABSTRACT

MICROFILPA

1º July te

MISING

following information which was obtained during a surveillance

of. IDEN C.:

local ODENVY®

information to JMYAVE.

2. Cn Thursday,

a surveillance vas instituted

from Room 618 of IDEN BOn

adjoining room 620, which was occupied

by IDEN C and his nide IDEN D.

The surveillance was initiated at

11:00 a.m. and terminatod at 5:15 p.m.

During the conversation

&between IDENS C and D'and another unknown Negro male, believed

to be IDEN E, references were made to

the Florida Gubernatorial

Race; a trip to Bimini; and several miscellaneous sex experiences.

3:

On: 20 May 1966 a senich was made of rooms. 620 and

622

after

IDENS C'and'D moved out;

Forwarded under separate cover

are

copies of items found in the waste baskets and dressers;

a hotel bill,

and a

on 18 - 19 Mạy 1966.

4.'

Ot special intorest among these items was a note which

stated; IDEN F, please

call long Distance. Operator IDEN G.

IDEN H;

according to IDEN A, is an identified member of the

communist farty:

Also, an envelope of IDEN B with the name

IDEN 1:

This person may, have been one of the occupants of the

room who remained in the company of IDENS C and D overnight.

JANAVE traces were negative on all personalities

mentioned above as well as those names appearing in the date

forwarded under separate cover.

INWAVE has carded only

those

personalities who reside in the JYAVE area…

Attachment:

A. IDENS A-1 u/s/c

B. ITENS

w/s/c

DISTRIBUTION:

PHILIP G. ELMARD

• DATE TYPED

3) - Chief/KUSODA

w/ätt..

.. Chief, WH Divisionw/o att

DATE DISPATCHED

9315d3

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Enolated lin. 05.10-3118

Cilitar sa 243

declarers 16)

15 July

1966

D'SPATCH STABOL AND NUMBER

UFGT - I6828

MEALUUARIERS FILE MUSBER

SAM CAS AN

CLASSIFICATICNE

SECRET

---

## Page 23

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

IDEN A

IDEN B

IDEN C

IDEN D

IDEN E

IDEN F

IDEN G

IDEN H

IDEN I

CLÄSSIPILATION

KENS E CRET

• ATCH SINUOR ARO MUMBER

UFCT - 16828

Soparato Covor Attachment A to UFGT - 16828

Lt. Loslio J. Van Buskirk

Chiol,

Criminal Intolligence:

Dade County Public Saféty (detro)

Mtam1, Florida:

Miami Intornational Airport

Bernard Let

Martin tutear King, or Corled

Dr. Brown

Dr: King, Jr.

#71, Hemstoad, Nile

To Fickles deniE

Tolephone # 487-5199

Mr. Harry Wachtoll and signed Lillian

Mr. Harry Wachtell

Miss Maxine Thurston

Distribution:

r.3j-

1 - Chief, WH Division

---

## Page 24

14-00000

PODRAT &

PREWNE.

DALILEITH DIGHIASON UNIVENDITE

Nia Senee

ТвіяттоRR: 801.Т8 9-1710

Robert s. 1

puti

N8: 800.081

"JURIS

MICHAEL ANTHONY GLEAN

ATTORNEY ANO CONADELLÇN AT I

•Lion & LONO

ATTORNATA

t0 entehre@ oraai?.0.т.

LEDIL ANTO QUILDIMO

COUITHOUAR dOUAME

ATLANTA. OA

10303

Separr

Gore?

Molto: "Çod Firs, Cihors Saiand, Ourselve: Lost"

Ron Lm. LocLambor.B.Th., D.D.

PASTCR, CREATER MOUNT HONE JAPTiST CHURCH

603e10 8. PrIncolon Aro. : HYdo Park 34708

Pros Infordonominational Minlatore Civic League o: Il.

Chalmen, Exoc: Bond, Good Cittenghip Org.

Chicago, 111. 80821

Ros, 5676 Nörmal Nird:

HUdson: 7.1185

NO J.5118

DAY OR NIONI

Noah Sarvis

PRIVATE INVEST

OJI B.W. BA COUAT

MIAMI iS, MORIOs

• IMOUMANCE

INVRETIGATOR

TEACHERS

MEMBERSHIP

CARD AND

DUES RECEIPT

3686 YEAR

NAME Ronald k. Young. )*

S. Stephon's Fiangelical

Hanira.

DODO MATiLANO AVENUA

¡CHICADO 19: ILLIMOIS

• 1р.

Hong, Yong Ki

JOOMG-ANÓ ILBO

META COMMeNTATÓR PORi

заоно--но прого. rr 1808

КОЛЕНі

949-40.00

RUTH Y. WASHINGTON

Nº.

4273

PiTL. TORVILLO, JA.

EXECUTIVE SICRETARY

Apaiato conco ott t8 ÜgFT-14et28

STATE OF NEW. КОЛК

MORAMENO COMPINSATION DORÃO

du 1-2129

FRONT

godes.

---

## Page 25

14-00000

6883164

A41109

133414

Quit 14

kine ile. MMertin 665-5116

Luther Xing

call this wher

Very sortiat!

pi. 1.

P4 77971

CORRECT

plase ёла.

Is and when your address and/or school changes

after Jolning CTA, please correct on post card or.

phone, CTA (373-7335). This will insure services

Bill + Elaine Calling

40W 1353 5T

NY,NY

Off.ce AUb?543

Mobie: 7029861

Back sipe cfcaeds.

---

## Page 26

4-00000

HIWITS

FRIDAY

29

APR. 1966

-APPOINTMENTS-

JAAY 1960

8:00

8.30

9.00

9:30

•80.00.

10:30

11:00

11:30

12.00

1:00

1:30

2:00

2:30

3:00

3:30

4:00

4:90:

- B:00:

8:30;

Plime Сле

Lang Destance !

Operator T

Hemileadt New York!

487-5199

Mr. Harry Wachtell

......!.

---

## Page 27

13803S

Alrise: Men's Shot, Due.

MIAMI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.

JIRTY DALINDO

NILS KRUPA

MIAMI 59, FLORIDA

MAMEN ORMS AGESORE LUNATE ST

Do = 20.66

Sold To

Addles

DESS TIPION

Cabana 201

TOWEN

reds

Sultrul

MISTA

14-0C

THANK YOU

Please herp this copy for intere

No.122912 Recd by

300

13J

1310

En/9.10

ЗМІ

"ON 3111

•ON

(48 Pª1(ІД UЛ4А)

13893S

---

## Page 28

MEMORANDUN

- MARTIN h. KINg Je

From:

iboit: PhoNe CAlls -

5/18/66

Dato :

2 696-8521 111 CoeAm. KINSEY) IHOSNWSIST.

NE-4-4812 _ MALCE/FRANCIS S, 4731NWISDE"

258- 7650 MIT MAXiNE ThuesTON-+ aline Rotary phose.

888÷

521/ Sēe OTHER SIDE

NE-3-I3 11 NATIONAL AIRLINES

5/19/66

661:2511 U00F MIAMI;

ASHE MEmORIAL BL DG.

MOT- 0006

POW. IVAN HOYD 5881 S.W. S2 TER. V

•37.7-3681

GResTER MIn. WebANLengie

758÷7659

MAXINE THURSTON, :3OL N.W. 81 TERRU

374-4212

1. CHALKS FLYING SERVICE, MACARTHUi CAUSE.

FoRt LAUDi

3.77÷

9945

635-1235

751-6692

IwCKT

691- 3311 - NAT, AIRLINES

TELEVISION

STATION

NE-4-4842 DAlICE FRANCIS 4731 NWISAE

---

## Page 29

14-00000

L4101106

888-5211

AIRWAYS HOTEL

MOTEL

LENNYS. HiDE A WAY

LiA. WIEN INVESTMENTS

MiAMI AIRWAYS HOTEL

miAmi AIRWAyS MOTEL

5055 N.W. 36 ST.

:.:

---

## Page 30

14-00000

10-^03

• SEE REVI

IASF. SIDE POR EXPENSE RECORO

"Diners avo

7005

KI:0

RECORD

CHARGE

a."!"

121 091 009

2/93-

165

BIGNATUEN

ilU21

Le n

ANT SO

1100

AMERAS

SERVICE

51

TAXES

2.75

Tip's

AND-

MISC

2026

TOTAL

THE DINERS

REVENSE SIDE FOR EXPENSE RECORO

-EXPIRES

DINERS CLUB

10 COLUMBUS CIACLE

NEW YORK, AL. 1. 100191

D. 2203 7906 9 NOVO

DR MARTIN

L' KING JR

RECORD. OF CHARGE

THE DINERS

CLUB

3212113884

SHERATON.

CHICAGO MOTEL

CHICAGO

ILL

MOST

7

TAXES

ATE

TIPS

DHOLDER'S SIGNATUHE

TOTAL

"CARDHOLDER'S RECE!P!

5. Telen

2345044.

MADE IN U.RA.

MOS 200REY. @BARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT

-DER'S

ONLY TO THE DINERS CLUN

S16EEL

Cases

---

## Page 31

14-00000

sIna

TOR EXPINSE HECORD

Diners cu

KI:5

J3

RECOND OF CHANGE

2i 271

1100

FUNC HAB

51

TAXED

2 175

TIPS

AND

MISE.

20 26 TTAL

PENCA CON LOS RECELE

EL REVERSE STDE FOR EXPENSE RECORO

EXPIRES

DINERE CLUB

1Ó COLUMBUS CIRCLE

NEW YORK, M. Y. 10019 1

DE 2203 7906 9 NOV6

DR MARTIN L KING JR

FARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT

theshet

5. Melone

THE DINER'S CLUB

3212113884

SHERATON

CHICAGO MOTEL

CHICAGO.

CHARGES MICORDTO

JUNT TO THE

RECORD,OF CHARGE

11 l

S!-

17:

TAXES

TIPS

AND

MISC.

TCTAL

2? MARON COERE RECEP

THE DINER:

тОЛИ

DE 100 REV. De ARDHOLDER'S RECSIPT

Tris

2:3.49

---

## Page 32

P.M

8:30

8:30

/ Mille es.

Un guid

International

AiRPORT

P. a DOX 3004

MIAMI, FLORIDA SaISO

Mi Topine Thine

845

---

## Page 33

14-00000

1JY93S

THE

•camorid

MUNS SHOP

AMERICANA

N076

TitiAra. 8S3rd.SP.

Cut 784) 000 1/16

Ordor No_

Addiosa

D0L00T

Açer.

NEW.YORK

CITY

181-7208

196-

{les

TITUES

tom cust

All alon

37471

ARDHOLDER'S' RECEIPT ESTE REVERSE SIDE FOR EXPENSE RECORD

ExPIKES

#C: 1703-7900-9

"Diners sud

LSTANLISMMEN

310 - 910-107-6

MICMiSE, FLA..

CAHOMOLDEE

тl.:

1773834080-51S170NN

RECORD OF. CHARGE

1495

N7

PURCHASI

TAXES

TIPS

AND

MISC

17.46

TOTAL

"CARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT

SHECEl AUS

---

## Page 34

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSIRUCTIONS

PRIOR IO FILING

1.

Fill in Sece. 2 on

Delach back ilap

Des for his HiD

sunsticant achon-taken or comments requis.

ing preservation

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il bile no. and nitle store die not propor.

insert propps lle no beiow and forward

document lo RID/AN

PROPER FILE NO

TO. ALL ADDRESSEES

WILL IN SECTION I ON BAÍA

IF APPROPRIATE

I TO

"DATE

ROOM

NO

13 10%

131606

1S0I0E2

711 89 11

1?.2.!

Kais

FBI Riguest

12.

13.

100-218

begg

RID: FI

TRACE

REQUEST

MICHOPIMEO

AUSTNACT

INDEE

110-002 - 018

0T-760906

301:426E: 0604 19623

---

## Page 35

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSINICATION

SECRET

10

C316P Of Statloin, London

INJO

Cates, HE

FROAS

C210s 01 Statton,

SUBECT

" Grunsalital of Mino tO Legal Astacho, London

ACTION AQUiSITO-REFERENCES

_ PROCESSING ACHION

MEANCO POR IMOATIN

NO INDEXITE MIQUIRED

¡ CAR ANDGE INCEXIMO

MICHOTILM

Pleaze trinilt to the legal Attacha the attached nem

walch 18 la response to his Inquiry of 17 March: 1966.

LeOn S. TOCALI

246-960966

Attachinent:

Distribrit ion:

2 - COS, London y/att

12 - Caler, WB v/att

CS: COPY

CROSS RETERENCE TO

lutt

DISPATCH SAMBOL AND NUMBER

0101-19623

QASSITICATION

SECRET

- 100-005-018

201760466

DATE

30 March 1966

MOS FRE RUMOCR

---

## Page 36

SECRET

• -

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

We have no information that subject appearod at a

rally in Dalo to date, sor does the Dabaggy have knowledge

of a future vialt of KING to Noraj.

Any future information vaica beconas avallable uill

be forwarded to you. le hava also taken due note of your

desire that the Norvegian authorities not know of your

Interest In Subject'a activities.

CS COPY

100-002-018

=0-760944

---

## Page 37

14-00000

39

1964

TO

P'reotor

¡aleral Furau od Inestlentlon

F.Os

sposato Tirector for Mare

sunticro cartin lather sis, io

Lo leferanoo la malo to a corsurteation fran your lures

datod 20 Aumes 171s enunernini, promoad trival to l'ostern :urosa

a cartin Lather KTU, JI.

to vale lon, itilo, en 10 and 20 seitaries 20640

2, This igenry hao roostred ths tollering Iniomation on

subicist

ito artin

Lather sino nat vita vartous louteca or the italian Cmuniat

septentor l9fl in'amo la discol tith tese italien

the unitad states unich ato to lo organisod in italy durinz tio

aortha inedlotaly ahoado I. XILO mortodly conterral titi roi

Senatare fallo spAno and u Lankangi, nith lui sonicar calo

farty as isolatarion Unity (noiur).

3a Tato Aperto la usabio to evnlusto the abina report.

Tho lavoration in pararonh tho laa loon cada svalladis

is your truma reprocontative In 0e

as (2li lovanber: 196i)

-Diotrioutlont

0r1g i 1 - Adáressco.

tin.

. CI

i=F1 (201-760966)

2 - нел/сь

Eased ons O117-6733 datod 20 Jetabor 1964

SECCET

10 2- 1

100-2-4

966

GS COPY

in 30 Ne 196

---

## Page 38

14-00000

CJ. UNCLASCIFIED

SUBECT: (Ophenol)

FROM:

TO: 1Officar, döngnation, room muston, and

burting)

2.

INTERN AL

USE ONEY. :

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INFIDENTIAL

SECRET

• DATE

OFFKE?'S

INIMALS

- C702

DIATE

2S NOV 1965

COMMENTS a no at a cora die a com hom

0. 500т

23 NOV 136€

org. linly. waiT

1- s

25 NOX

w4. 14.

7.

B.

eveness

Buzzetti

CE

5c/w2/4

10.

закк

12.

13.

it with

201-140 966-16d2 las

сід б іка acita

ind the triedfile

des; de othee dissi

jha.

11994

15.

RI/FI

FORMA

J-08

610 USE TONS

PREVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 39

VIA COURIER POUCH

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICA: IM

CONFIDENTIAL

PROCESSNG

11730

TO

MARTES FOR INTRIT

Chief, WE

INFO

Attri: Chef, WE/4

XX

NO INDETITE FI$TIZ43

CALY QUALITI:

MLAZQUARTAS ISN

FROM

Chief of Station, Rone DiatIo

ARSTRACT

SUBJECT

KEYWAY/ Support

PCI Publication of. Articles by Martin Luther KING

ACTION REQUISED. RETERENCES. "

REFERENCE: OIRT-6733, 20 October 1964

ACTION REQUIRED:

For your information:

Forwarded herewith is a memorandum prepared for PRESLAND's

information concerning

an article attributed to Martin Luther

KING that appéared in the 22 October issue of the PCI organ,

Vie-Nuöve: Also forwarded IS

a copy. of the 24 October issue

of Rinascita which reprints on its last page an article by KING

that; according to an editorial note, was originally published

1n The Nation.

AÇCOM

Kenisth I Fillyokin

KENNETH L. PETTIJOEN

Attachments: as stated.

Distribution:

3-C/WE, watts.

"CHOSS REFRENCE TO

CLISSIFICATION

CONF IDENTIAL

NOV 17 1964

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

16 Nov 64

OISPATCH SYMBOL AND MEASUR

OIRT- 06783

HEADQUARTERS FME MIDASIR

160-=0=#f

---

## Page 40

14-00000

Attachment to:

OIRT-06783

16 NOv 61

COMET

SUBJECT:

"Article by Martin luther King in Yie Nuove,

October 1964.

.

The article entitled "What We Negroes Ask of the

President"

and attributed to Martin Luther King, published on

pages 15 and 17 of the 22 October 1964 Issue of the Italian •

Communist Party organ Vie Nuove, is a straightforward expression

of the hopes and aspirations of

the American Negro population:

and of its determination to continue the struggle by

non-violent

means until full social and economic equallty has been obtained.

The article does not contain anything which could be considered

as typical communist propaganda nor anything that seems to be

directed specifically to a communist audience.

The article,

under King's byline, would be perfectly proper for any American

publication.

2.

At the beginning of the article, Vie Nuove Includes the

following. editorial comment:

The racial problem is ohe of the subjects that most divides

the American states in this presidentiai electiön!

This

article, by Martin Luther King, that we published exclusively,

illuminates its nost dramatic aspects and expresses the

requests that the colored population advances to the entire

nation.

It is a denunclation of the inequality of rights

that goes beyond the secular racial question.

The

"you must

respect my person" is a request that the problem of Democracy

poses for everyone.

to have been written some months ago.

date of its publication the article appears

This is evident from King's

reference in the article to the fact that the Civil Rights Bill

was before. Congress. at the time he was writing the

article

Bill, It will be recalled, was enacted

into law on 2 July.

The

conclusion to be drawn fron this is that the article? lost:

appearance in Vie Nuove of at least, its composition by King, 1s

not the direct result: of any contacts. that King may have had

with

PCI officials during his visit to

Rome in mid-September.

---

## Page 41

14-00000

ittachment t5-

ORT: 06783

16 Di 64

pag. 3 Rinascita

Rinascita

N. 42 - anno 21

Setticanale fondato da Palmiro Togliatti

Sabato 24 ottobre 1964

Le 100

Lotta

di classe

• riunificazione

solitica

Interviste con

Vecchietti

ombardi

La politica

del Ventesimo

Le decisioni di Mosca, per l'imporianza del- è che l'altanno della crisi del contro-sinistra

l'assenimento, per il peso che cosi è chiamato ad

del naufragio delle que, prospettive politiche im.

avere nelle prospettive della vita sosiclica e del

-pedisce a certi democratici e a taiuni socialisti di

movimento operaio internazionale, non polerano

guardare al di la dei roti delle prossimie elexioni.

non suscitare interrogativi. non diventare argo-

municipali, anche quando si tratta della prosper.

nicuto di riflessione e di dibattito ben oltre le

lisa mondiale. Con il risultato, crediano. di non

froutiere dell'Unione Sovietica. Li procedura di.

reder chiaro nè quello che può accadere nel

quelle decisioni e il modo contraddittorio, tale

mondo, nè quello che accadri nel municipio.

'da lasciare ancora vaste zone d'ombra. col qual

• A noi spella ribadire, anche in questa-os

uno state romunicate ¡trano certo determinato à cione, una poliza cle di poro lombiental.29

duene ioni lesied

deo cos à coo-nestian 0.o

---

## Page 42

Kinasrile pag. 32

21 Ollobre 1061

Testimonianze

Carri armati a Jackson

Nullin

lanther Ninyy

Ver

ded

ir..

dr.a-

meritori ile ansleyerther.

1010 l-9

1081.

NAlo

4fr!

errati

delles

parco, Ail'elliate dei suol rapa

alisto delles

di Martin Luther King

sono a

repilamente

1718

$60110111.

di

croici

ta rispeste o che

i ncari

sono doti

hruta.

fosfatti

s.elle 10958.1

C'n apparato

abitualo

Nenerielan

cune

di castror.

Th 0098088

sirpliirino

l8 pier

le cenler ita

propenn.

of-

rontali i

truleyes.

e e di alticor

in

corsn.

Ancho

i ilereoni rhe

illustrano la pagina sono ripre

si ila thee iNitlioi.

Per molli anni, nel jussalo, la lol-

la per 1 altritti di neori di stage sesta-

10 alt.

contese.moltepliciss

di Littiche.

del primo.periodo dil.ge

verno

Kennels., si

leterminare

ricorrere all'ite.

iti

11151.si

straniento

iti 11r9-.

dere

incontrollato:

un delong

legale.

La cala le sacriliche desso ior

federali:

alutano l negri in questa lupari bat-

loglia pio di un amichevôle colpello.

sulla

spalla.

negri

retti

hanño. trovato nell'azione

non

violenta: uno strumento

miracoloso contro l'isuplego della for.

sa bruta,

ma non è uno strumento ri.

sulivo.

- di rifléltori

orlando la luce si

migliala

puntala sulle: violen

dellia.'

Manganell

polizia

del Sud, pistole

vengono

rinfoderati.

temporaneamen-

l'impattenza

ded

COstude

nonestant

di

conti

•"di

Іларієниго

strilli

quando

con

minalila

di

Berisla-

quattro

donienicair.

quard;

SOnO atTe

atermin

dall.

ness

Zinn

ivil

applic

Sud. Il codice

pende americano.

titolo 10. sezioni 200 e 9l, stabilisce

che un tunzionario il quale noghi a.

un cittadino l'esercizio dei suoi dirit:

ti costitrizionali.

chiunque

agisca

Con

questo ubictrivo, commelle un

delitto, ma'.le riolazioni di

questo

articolo sono ben più purierose del

rari

•casi in

cui il ministero della

•Giustiria

ne

ha

irrocato l'applica-

Mine.

il fallo è che la legislazione faile-

rale

¿ riniela

nel

sid

modo

cost massiccio

the

non d esagera.

Bune affermaro che l'unità federale

dei paese è poro più di un'illusione

Per il nouro dil Serel e solo

mito:

¿ sillo sfruttaro, imprigionato a

ascissinalo, e sebbeno lã leggo federia-

abrebbe

pM0l11le

racaniere l col-

peroli

non è diale lalto nulla por di-

l'inspressione di cui il negro

siolazioni più tragiche e fro.

purali se verificano nelle done in cur

brutalita

deile prodisis

mana. e in

sono in rigire legat

statali

chiaratorente.

alleiali contra

25, 151

Menti

2mer16.171

Beanelli

det

ciaortesenta della

slalo

comitato

erxs,

pir e diri!!,

Ho 11900

arverte

svolgoni

Issistity

ront

solo quando

manife

stazioni

negr

surdi

convinta

episodi

spor

eccessiva:

che

ip

sell

non

lita

nivenza o

nel

pol

ta t

Allor

.con

dei

lindiffereare della comunila, & una

esperienza quotidiani dei negri

in

troppo rode del Sud: I negri virono

in

S:B/111

.stato

che

una re

situi

e) до

rilenista

'anni.

pro

lin

non

Ireno

XIO

della

spesso,

rinuncia.ad

è ancor per-

ingire.

dimostr:

rutilità e

pierchè

li

debolezza

del potere loderalo.

Molti si

domandano come

mai le

dimusirazioni e le lotte nel Sud ten-

be

tra:

con

Con

illettori

rimorchic

vitre

stitali.

una

Rione

-li:

Questo

di

di

civi

attende

con

dente

Ma a far uso defle um

consucia

fac

Non si pud non concludere

negri.

che d

¿ quali hanno dimostrato

un

De

eccezionale

nella loro axiu

direlta noi violenta,

SONO

stati

abbandonati dal più potente gorerno

del mondo. Hanno subito la

per

rivelare quanto

violcnza

profondo sia it

loro

dramma e per

protesta:

elevare_la loro

il governo

non ha

„зарн:о

invece venire in loro aiuto che

niinimo

rli

con

cornacio e di

deci-

sione

Quesla contraddizione

deve

essere

assulutamente risolta. Lorsi o comita-

ti inter-razziali non

possono trasfor-

mare

quali

comunita

quando

coloro

delengono

potere

locale

saniso di poter

ricorrere nil'uso della

sorea mentre il potere contrale dem-

РОГО 1.

nel mondo esistono governi

quali non sono

arado di contro.

lare alcune zone dil paese, cost come

il gorerno americano

di

SUllU

controll.ava

centunni or

Bale

tribu

all'anno

indiane.

abi.

2004,

Одяі siamo

nosiTi 10-

penso nazioodle è quasi senza limiti:

il governo

di

tuer

non d la trado

applicare la

KeRjt

neintueno

in un precolo, perlere villasgio del

Sird.

Il soverno don la oranai alloa al.

leraslira che altronliero in

tullu

12t0de

del

nuove it

problenis.

-11

figure

1o movimento per i diritlo rista aio

èsentiraso

T.861195915531.

perché i

le 78949881860

108 8

rral..

19.>0

fores

indoerranno

---

## Page 43

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT, (Opranaly

FROM,

RIS 00P

SA12

LO office designation, regin minitor, and

O CONF': NTIAL

CHLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

EXTENSION

DATE

mamo

TOMMANDEO

• IMITIALS

DIRT - 6733

29001 196d

OMMENTS Number soch

"Д.

29 156đ

GECE

No v

8 MOV 1964

c/wr/4/E

10.

01/0P3/ WE

89 0CT 1364

chi

ItCHeONO

3-6: We should culipate

to proce

mone abail the conster el

there reported! mutings?

i mikes a wild dien

i tien in tingstation

Sifo in attacked: 01k5-6799

FBI in eSCI=

316/02a51 -67,

drafted Gone%

12.

13.

18:

15:

FORMA

J-07

WE/4/CE

RIS,

670VETOUS

i Files

U

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL.

I please file in a

100-:

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 44

FAIT

Chios, WE Attn: Chief, WE/4

VIA CÖURIER FOUCH

PROCESSING

ACTICA:

MARIO FOR INDEXIMO

NO, INDIXINE RIQUIRTO

CAN JUDGE INCEXIAO

'ABSTRACT

Chiot of station, Rome

Ditt

•KEYWAY -

Hecting of Dr. Martin Luther XiNG with Italian Lestiat

ED. REFERLNCES.

Personitttos

For Your Information:

Pollowing is a translation of a report on the subject:

"The wission of Luther KING with the Italian Left", dated

28 September 1964 and attributed to DEPLENARY/7, from Luigt

PINTOR, from Information coming into the editorial offices

of L'UNTA, The station recelved the report on I October 1964 Flut

"Luther KING, noted Protestant negro Pastor and leador?

of the anti-racist movement, in the Untted States, met with

varlous leaders of the Italian Connunist Party (PCI) and of

the Italtan Soctalist Party (PSI) On 18 September In Rome:

In particular,

KING conferred with PCI Senators Vello SPANO

and Ugo BARTESAGHl, with SiDeputy Luclo LUZZATO, and with

Senator Paolo VITTORELLI of the Itablan Socralist

Partxiof

Proletarian Unity.

KING discussed with the above-named

politicians the program of demonstrations against segroga-

P.SI

tion in the United States,

which are to be organized. in

Italy during the months immediately ahead."

The same report was also received fron DEDICATOR/s who

accent to the DEPLANANS SEtablishment

and thus it is not

considered as confirming the DEPLENARY/? information.

(Continued)

Attachment::

b/w:

Copy. of a report passed to local ODENVY rep:

Distribution:

3-C/WE, w/att

DROSSS REFERENCE TO

7 2.:20211:

45231

CUASSIFICATION

SECRET

OCT 20 1964

DATE OISPATCHED

DATE TYPED

i6 Oct 64

DISPATCH STAIBOL AND NUMBER

OIRT - 06733

HENDQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

166-2-4

•ot territ

---

## Page 45

TION

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

OIRT - 06733

13:

Givon the'source of..the. above report., wo-vlew

1t. with

BOme rOserve.

In this connection, we noted

tho

19

September

18840 0f L'UNITA, which reflected an article on KING's private

audience withope Paul held the procoding day.

According to

L' UNITA;

Immediately after the audience, in St. Poter'& Square,

KING stated that "Pópo-Paul was most: clear on the fact. that both

ho, porsonally, and the Catholic Church support the cause of

cival rights"

The article also states that in a press confer-

once hold.

at flunicino Airport altor the audense KING said,

"The Pope will shortly maker" public statement on racial seg-

regation"

We have no

other informatton at this time.

Attached le a copy of the report which wo have passed

to the local ODENVY representative.

NDOLPH

EDEORD

,...

85a

PREVIQNO BDITION.

CLABSIPICATION

SECRET

PAGE NO

2 0f 2

---

## Page 46

Ei? 33

Thio material coñsano inerenalton altitina ene jasional sisenão do ine t'nitrdicas diesin, die mronine alishe larenar. lama. Tille

18 l'sc ini

191 and'ido, ine prañeroinon de revelation of which in ans manner

li an'unairburleail pérson la prististiral ds-lam

CONFIDENTIAL

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Italy,USA

SUBJECT ::

Meeting of Dr.:

Martin-Luther

King with Italian Loftist

Personalitlés

REPORT NO

DẶTE DISTR

NO PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF , 28

September 1964

INFO:::

PLACE •8-55.1

DẶTE CO Italy, Rome (1 October 1964)

UNEVALUATED INFONMATIÜN: SOURCF •GRADINGS:

SOURCE:

FIELD REPORT NO

O OIRT-06733

APPHAISAL OF CONTINI IS TINTAS

Luther. Kingi.

noted Protestant negro Pastor and "leador of the

anti racist movomont In the

United States,

met with varlous

leaders of tho Itallan Communist Party (PCI) and of the Italian

(PSI) On 18 September in Rome. In particular,

King conferrod with Cl senators Vello spano and Ugo Bartesaga

vIth-PAI Deputy Lucio Luzzat

and -with

senator Paolo Vittore1l1

o1 the Itallan Socialist Party of Proletarian Unity. (PSIUP)

King discussed with the above-named politicians the program of

demonstrations against segregation in the United States)

which

are to be organtzed in Italy during the months immedtately ahead:

Field Comente Given the source of the above report;

we vlow

It with soue, resorye, In this connection, we noted the 19 September

issue of L'Unita, which reflected an article on king's prtvate

audtence with ope Paul held the preceding day Accordingato

inmodintoly after the audience,

in St. Peter's Square,

King stated that "Pope-Paul was most clear on the fact that both

he, personally and the Catholic Church support the causerol clvll.

rights"..

The article also states that in a press conterence held

at Fiumicino Airport after the audfence King said,

"The "Pode

shortly make a public stategent on racial segregation"

We

have

no other information at this time.

5

CONPIDENT IAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

iECu?1

ta logos lino

DIA

:MAVY

AIS

OCR

TOTALS

---

## Page 47

Prestand

S. DUDICATOR/4

medford.

16 detty

red 15/0/64 cv)

Luthei King noto pastore protestante negro,e leader del movimente

antixazzista dogli Stats Uniti,si e Incontrato il 18 settembre u.s.

a Romá con divessi esponenti del pei o del Psi In modo particolare

99l1 ha conferito coll'on Vello Spano, del PCI collon Ugo Bartesas

shi (PCI) coll'on Lucio Luzzatto del PSIUP e Col senatore Paolo vite

toxelii del PSI.il Pastore King ha discusso con loro 10 manifesta-

zoni contro 12 segregazioniano neglE Stati Uniti,che al dovrebberó

organizzasa

nos prosaint nest so italla.

---

## Page 48

14-011100

Allachno ft-212-4733)

16€ 1.24

28 SET. 1964

S: deplenary 17

1:1006

Luther King, noto pastore protestante negro, e "leader"

del movimento antirazzista degli stati Uniti, si è incontrato il 18

settembre u,s. a sona con diversi esponenti del P.C.I. e del p.sI.

Ta modo particolare 11 king ha conferito con il Sen. Ve

1io spano, della vice presidenza deila Commissione Centrale di Con

trollo del P.C.r., con l'on. Ugo Bartesaghi (P.C.I.), con l'on. lui

cio M. Luzzatto del P.S.I.U.P. e con il sen. Paolo Vittoreili del

P...S. I.

il pastore king ha discusso con i predetti uomini politi

ci il programma di manifestazioni contro il segregazionismo negli

stati uniti, che si dovrebbero organizzare nei prossimi mesi in I

talia.

10.0

2-4

---

