104-10140-10062| * [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel : c f2e¢ a t

ee “Monday - 28 November 1977 ser Eocene 3

ai ~~ 30, (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON -Received a call from
Seymour Shwiller, on the staff of the House Armed Services Subcommittee
on Intelligence & Military Application of Nuclear Energy. He said he
would like to have a briefing on "that Russian thing that appeared in the
~‘papér'' this afternoon or tomorrow morning. I told Shwiller I would
““ check with our people and be back in touch With him, .(Shwiller isa
“former member of the staff of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy.
He has all the necessary compartmented clearances and has been briefed
eee on.matters of this sort in the past. He is now continuing the same kind
', |... of.responsibility in his’ current staff. capacity with the House Armed
. Services Committee.) ie é az
: -. 31, (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Called Bob Blakey, Chief
ounsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations, to talk with him
further about the inquiry I had received from a Committee staff employee
who was concerned about her. clearances, (See Memorandum for the.
Record.) i : 7 oe : :
32.° (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Tony Lapham, Géneral
Counsel, and I met with Tom Latimer and Mike O'Neil, both on the’
staff of the House Permanent Seléct Committee on Intelligence, and

Bill Miller, Staff Director, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence,
t6 discuss a personnel matter of interest to the Director,

3H 33.- (Confidential.- CM) LIAISON-~Goncerning the cable from
Paris}which advised that Representative Robert Dornan (R., Calif.)
is-to’be in London on’2 December and had:asked that a(Baris Station e432
-staffer, who is posted to the Embassy under the cover of the Embassy
-Economic Defense Officer and in that ‘capacity had Berved as anescort -
for Mr. Dornan during the Paris Air Show in May 1977, brief him on
matterS(coveréd by the staffer's cover position) Shep Shepanek, SA/DO/O,
reported thatthe DDO interposed no objection to having the staffer meet
with Mr. Dornan, but thought it advisable to inform Mr. Dornan

before he goes of the staffer's true affiliation: Lyle Miller concurred.
With this as background I called Mr. Dornan's office and asked for an
appointment to see him briefly before he left for Europe.

adds Shure loner

3)ra)
