# 104-10310-10003

## Page 1

AaA

1104-10310-10003

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

ACC-5

58575

CI 269-75

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

FROM

SUBJECT

: Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

: Mr. Mario Brod

1.

On 3 September 1975, Mr. Mario Brod confirmed

his appointment with the DDO

for 1430 hours, 9 September

1975.

2.

Mr. Brod is a U.S. citizen and attorney-at-law

in New York who is an independent contractor and former

staff employee of CIA.

Mr. Brod was separated from the

U.S. military service with the rank of Lieutenant Colonel

on 29 April 1946, and as of that date entered on duty with

the SSU, under U.S. Treasury cover, until 1 June 1947. He

chen was employea by CIA In Rome

14 June 1948 at which time he was converted to a earera!

agent.

From 25 May 1952 until his retirement under CIARDS

a C1 Staft agent in New York City.

in investigations of Italian politicians and fascists,

political parties, Nazi fugitives, CP activities and Soviet

and Chinese activities.

He also was an agent handler.

From 1952 to his retirement in 1971. Mr. Brod handled two

sensitive CI Staff agents,

and Herbert Itkin,

in a deep cover capacity, the latter case in conjunction

with the FBI and the Department of Justice. From 1971 to

the present, he is the financial handler of PDLADLE and

acts as a buffer surrogate case officer for PDLADLE in

New York

3/1d

SECRET

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 008885

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

3.

Mr. Ernest Tsikerdanos, Chief, CI Operations

Group, Special Operations, has arranged with the DCI

Security Staff to have Mr. Brod admitted into the Head-

quarters ouilding via the DCI's elevator. Mr. Tsikerdanos

will escort him to your office.

Ecorgo T. Kalaris

George T. Kalaris

Chief

Counterintelligence Staff

DDO/CI/OG/SO:ETsikerdanos:AWard:es/1731/4 September 1975

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - DO through ADDO

1 - DDO Registry

1

- C/CI Staff

2 - CI/OG/SO

SECRET

2

---

