Tios-toz68-10012| [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET REPRODUCTION
a __ PROMIBITED

1. MEXI-9332, 6 May 1964 [duplicate of FOIA No. 683-391]

2. Memorandum passed to Mr. PAPICH of FBI with informa-
tion on photo coverage of embassies and information on
KOSTIKOV. [XAAZ-3590 - FOIA No. 182-621]

3. Cover sheet to MEXI-7034

4. HMMW-15488, 18 May 1967 eu Ny aa >

8, Newspaper ane? |R REPRO ng ON NN and Paul SCOTT
"CLA W: aie from Warren Commis-

- NED
6. MEXI-9332 (IN PRONE [FOIA No. 683-291]

7, DIR-18827, 4 May 1964 [FOIA No. 677-289]
8. DIR-87770, 9 December 1963 [FOIA No. 354-719]

9. MEXI-7067 (IN 68291), 26 November 1963 [FOIA No.
124-54]

10. Cover sheet to MEXI-7067 (from Mexico City File)

11. WAVE-8149 (IN 67731), 25 November 1963 [FOIA No.
101-573]

12. Cover Sheet to WAVE-8149 (from Mexico City File)

13. easy (IN 67620), 25 November 1963 [FOIA No.
89-33

14. Cover Sheet to MEXI-7055 (from Mexico City File)

15.. MEXI-7054 (IN 67378), 24 November 1963. [FOIA No.
85-565]

16. -MEXI-7054, 24 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)

17. DIR-84920, 24 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of FOIA No. 65-25]

18. DIR-84920, 24 November 1963 [FOIA No. 65-25]

19. teasy 23 November 1963 [duplicate of FOIA No.

20.  MEXI-7034 (IN 67231), 23 November 1963 [FOIA No.
61-575]

21. MEXI-7033,

x IReveRuEHT HSH 1 lexico City File)
including’ cd ou of FOIA No.
55-546]

22. a 7033 (CIN PROWEITED. 1963 [FOIA No.

23. Seezoy (IN. 67190) ,:23 November 1967. [FOIA-No.

24. .MEXI-7028, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
including cover sheet. - [duplicate of FOIA No.
Races P

2S... MEXI-7028. (IN 67187), 23 November 1963 . [FOIA No.
58-549]

REPRODUCTION SECRET
PROHIBITED



13-00000

SECRET REPRODUCTION
_ PROWBITED

26. MEXI-7025, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of FOIA No. 60-550]

27. MEXI-7025 (IN 67188), 23 November 1963 [FOIA No.
60-550]

28. MEXI-7024, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)

— eon
29. MEXI- ru ovEHBMr 1963 [FOIA No.
30. MEXI-7023, PROa IB EDD Mexico City File)
[duplicate oO = J .

31. MEXI-7023 (IN 67108), 23 November 1963 [FOIA No.
49-545]

32. DIR-84888, 23 November 1963 [FOIA No. 39-38]

33. DIR-84886, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of 40-541]

34, DIR-84886, 23 November 1963 [FOIA No. 40-541]

35. DIR-84821, 23 November 1963 [FOIA No. 51-18]

36. MEXI-7019 (IN 66846), 22 November 1963 [FOIA No.
27-10]

37. DIR-84802, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of 26-8]

38. DIR-84802, 22 November 1963 [FOIA No. 26-8]

39. MEXI-7014, 22 November 1963 (from.Mexico City File)
[duplicate of FOIA No. 29-12]

40. MEXI-7014 (IN 66781), 22.November 1963 (FOIA No.
29-12)
41. Memorandum for The Ambassador, dated 16 October 1963;

Subject: Lee OSWALD/Contact with the Soviet Embassy.
[TX-1919 - FOIA No. 9-5]

42. MEXI-6534| Mexico City File)
[FOIA No.

43. MEXI-6534 P Off I Ses 1963 [FOIA No. 8-4]

44.‘ DIR-74830, RI OF ci Mexico City File)
including ‘cover sheet. [duplicate of FOIA No. 7-2]

45. DIR-74830, 11 October 1963 [FOIA No. 7-2]

46. MEXI-6453, 8 October 1963 (from Mexico City. File)
[duplicate of FOIA No. 5-1A]

47. MEXI-6453. (IN 36017), 9 October 1963 [FOIA No. S-1A]

48. Transcript. of telephone call on 27 September 1963,
Soviet Embassy Chancery (15-61-55).

49. Informal Memorandum dated 10 February 1977; Subject:

Background on Mexican Station Support Assets
(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies).

REPRODUCTION

PREIS


13-00000

SECRET REPRODUCTION
-_ PROHIBITED
so. mga neorraa tet fly UG ser RLY,

LC RERRORRETIOR me ssi
PROWIBITED

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

REPRODUCTION
PROTEST



13-00000

REPRODUCTION

SU"JECT: "elay in sending the first cable about
OSWALD

1._ Much has been written about the dela (by the Mexico
Station) ins ending the first cable requesting traces on the
name Lee OSWALD. It was discussed in Dave Phillips book a a
case of laziness on the part of the Soviet case officer (which
in y view was unjust and unnecessary and indicates that Dave
didn't know what he was’ talking about).

2. Normally, the Spanish transcript for the 1 October
convers ation would have been picked up on the morning~6' e
2nd of October. ‘he Russian language portion would:havegone
to the Russ ian/English transcriber on the 3rd of<Ottober. ‘The
trans lation would have been returned the follawing-.day (4th)
at which time, the Soviet case officer wuld haves ked for
the photographic coverage. ‘hat coverage yuld not have been
in the station before the 7th since tha fijm was still in the
camera on the 3rd of October and ‘picked up probably on
the 4th, processed and passed ation on the next work
day which would have. been M ictober.

3. . Later the film was en out of the camera every day
but at that time, the filmstayed in the camera until a full
rotl was completed wich might take three or four das.

4. A name trace could have been requested on the bas is
of the name alone but that wasn't the wa Win Scott ran that
Station. He wanted the photographic coverage tied in with the
telephone coverage ..s ometimes there_was..a U.S..automobile
license number. . It was also part of the "numbers game" of
jus tify ing a project ly the number of dis patches, cables or
Teports produced.

GC00151

REPRODBGTION sxe
PROBED



REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

2 May 1977

SUBJECT: Review of Mexico City Station Files
at the Warrenton Recerd's Center

gO
1. On 2 Nay 1977 Chris Hopkins and Anni
visited the Warrenton Record's Center to rea
City files in search of additional pho! ‘the

“unidentified man". We were unabl; any such
photographs. It appears that A ographs may have
been destroyed in a purge o Station files and

that the folders for the material were re-used to
Spnvc material to Headquarters
e the Job numbers of boxes reviewed

for retention. Follow§npea
Te re-use of the old folders:

and pertinent notatio

Job_#70-236 Box 1 of 3

BILYRIC Photos LICALLA Negatives
as |
1 February '- 1 March 1968 In white letter-sized |
ed in re-used folder, envelopes - five |
LILYRIC 1 Aug. 1966 to 31 Aug 66) packages C-1873 - 2031 i

1 March - 1-April 1968
T - re-used LILYRIC : |

0.
folder 1 Sept 66 - 31 Oct 66

Front folder re-used LILYRIC
folder 2 Dec 63 - 28 Feb 64

1 April — 2 May 1968
TLYRIC G006152

Te-usi
folder 2 Mar 64 thru 29 May 64
Front folder re-used LILYRIC an

folder 1 Nov thru 15 Dec 66
SEK at 056 Continued

Copy 20F7 SECRET SECRET 7

“REPRODUCTION
PROSIBITED


13-00000

R

(

3 May —3 Jone 1968
ap re- ILYRIC folder
161 Dec 1966 thru Jan 1967

Front flap re-used Lurie folder
18 Nov 1964 thru 26 Feb 1965

3 June - 1 July 1968
back flap’one Side re-used
Czech photos July 64 & Aug 64

back flap-other side re-used
LIMITED 11 May 66 thru 31 July 66

1 July 68 - 31 July 1968 S:
back flap ve-used LICRILA soider SY

7 Nay 64-27 July 64 4
Front flap re-use

16 May 61 - 16
File # 50-
Job_#70-236 Box 2 of 3

LILYRIC_ Photos

16 May 61 .- 18 July 61
File # 50-6-74/5

Front flap re-used. LILYRIC April 67

Bick flap 2 Wy 67'— 1 Jie 67
re-used L. 01 ic - Jan 67

Front flap clean

SEGHET

EPRODUCTION
PROWISTTED

REPRODUCTION
PROTIBITED

6200153



13-00000

oe

EPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

Za

LJune - 3 July 1967
Clean folder =

3 July - 31 July 1967
ap Te-us IC folder
July - Aug 64

Front flap clean

1 Aug 67 - 4 Sept 67 Le
Ws ot aw®™

2 Oct - 31
ean £0)

1 Nov - 22 Dec .67
Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder
12 Apr 66 - 18 May 66

Front flap re-used incoming cable
chrono folder 1-31 Jan 65 a

9 Jan - 31 Jan 68
it flap re-used LILYRIC folder
1 July thru 31 July 1966

Back flap - clean

Job #70-236 Box 3 of 5 6000154
LICALLA Photos
.2 Jan - 27 Feb 1967 .
ap re-u: (CALLA folder
5 Nov 62 ~ 31 Jan 63 ;
~ SECRET Continued 3

EPRODUCTION
PROWIBRTED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 Dec 66 - 15 Feb 67

1 Mar = ay wil 1967
LI folder |
1 Feb ~ 29 June 63

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder
20 Feb - 31 May 1967

( 1 2 May ST 30 June 67 ¢ folder vw

23 July ¢8 (¥-1257) to
30 Nov 63 (¥-1308) WH

Front flap re-used LI
1 Sept thru 30 Nov

3 July - 30 967
folder

‘ap re- t
19 Sept 63 (C-1351) to
30 Nov 63. (C-1414)

Front flap LICALLA re-used folder
1 June thru 30 June 1967

1 Sept = 27 Oct 1967
‘ap clean
. Front flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 Aug - 31 Aug 1967
6 Nov - 29. Dec 1967
Back flap clean

front flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 July ~ 31 July 1967

6806:
3.Jan = 28 Feb 1968 155
Front flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 July thru’ 31 August 1966
Back flap Czech photos re-used folder
Sept - Nov 64
_ SECRET Continued $f

' REPRODUCTION
PROSIBITED


13-00000

7

«

1 March thru 29 April 1968
Front Pep ees eh re-used LICALLA (C)

28 Nov 61 to 10 Feb 62

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 Apr to 1 July 1966

thru_19 June 1968

rex C folder (Y-907 to Y-969)

ap
12 Sept 61 - 23 Mar 1962

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 Jan thru 31 Mar 1966

N.B. There was no coverage from 19 oo 1968
i
ap

REPRODUCTION

Contained nothing prior to 1967. Looking for 1963.

Job_#70-209
. Box #3 (Boxes 1§2 at Hgs)
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #4
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #5
Nothing ‘pertinent to our search.

Box #6
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #7

Nothing pertinent to our. search.
Box #8 :
Nothing PeTtinent to our search

SECRET

EPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

CC00156

Continued S


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

« . «

Box #9
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #10
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #11
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #12
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Job_#73-506.

File F BI-6- 74/3 ge
' Saco Ee

P

May &

July § Aug 70
Sept § Oct 70
Nov & Dec 70

Dec 0

Dispatch HMMT 11,368, dated 17 March 1972. Photos were filed in
re-used subject and "P" folders (equivalent of subject 201 folders),
indicating contents of "original" subject and "P" files were
destroyed.

Ref (to previous shipment ) HVA 40,562, 21 May 71.

CoOu157

— SEGaET

om

EPRODUCTION
PROABITED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROIIBITED

Nexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1963)

1. Unilateral Coverage: oe
From the time the Mexico Station was opened in April 1947 ‘untit
? the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station in 1955, the Station had
developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in
Nexico City. This umbrella type project curstigg teeta of muTtiTine
. Phone taps, three photographic sites, a mab sy ance team and a

mail intercept operation.

cv * ee
* Telephone taps CS Sala by an employee of the local

telephone company wi ed by a Station case officer. The number

of Tines tapped wa ited only by the availability of a listening post
nearby and the availability of langauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,
Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-
ie American recruited agents.
Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer
: assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station
on the best types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. These
operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC
and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-
bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of. the

(co
6006158
£2, IMPDET

ETICENCITRIE  & Moone

REPRODUCTION
PROLIBITED


13-00000

R

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned
street on the southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).
LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental
basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-
tion received word that the photograph of the “unidentified man" was

being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate photo-

“graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building

on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site er middle of ©
the block south. It had a planted view of tl Ne jate of the Soviet
Embassy. LICALLA, the third mhotoaragets sw fas located in one of a
row of four houses on the soutl ak Soviet Embassy compound.
This site overlooked th ss" of the Soviet Embassy compound. The
purpose of this over SRS s to get good identification photographs of
Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-
cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother
and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from the
LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was then de-
veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips. LICALLA film was
originally processed in the Station but in early 1959, due to the resig-
nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

processed on the outside by a recruited agent. ~

00001459 =
, aa,
SEERET) mT =

EPRODUCTION — a
PROWIBIMED



13-00000

PR

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.
These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents
which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team
could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever. someone of
interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of

the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for

identification purposes

The Station also conducted a unilateral ws a operation,
LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American SS icer. A recruited
Mexican agent, who had a semiofficial a al selected letters

from a subagent employed by the, as stal system.

2. Liaison Coverage Ay
Liaison a Unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the Mexican services at that time. The. Mexican Direction
of Federal Security (DFS), with which we conducted liaison, was a hip-
pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This-Ministry
was principally occupied with political investigations and control of
foreigners. Their agents were sieceTal | and corrupt. A Station
officer trained a number of them in name tracing and travel control. In
1958, at the instigation of a Mexican official, a Joint telephone tap

operation came into existence. The operation, which became known as

0000160.

EPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED



13-00000

R

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

LIENVOY, was run by a Mexican officer. The listening post had 30 lines
connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by Mexican

Army officers. In 1961, because of mismanagement by the Mexican prin-
cipals, the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A

Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening

post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also

an American technician inside the listening post. i

3. Oswald Coverage: .
In mid-1962, the Mexican officer in charge of LIENVOY (the

joint tap operation) asked the American officer at the envoy listening
post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cubi as elite Em-
bassies in anticipation of possible coverage’ Sie rion inmediately

taps on these Embassies so

disconnected al] of the unilateral,
that they would not be disc, d the Mexicans hooked up their
taps. The Mexicans a ter connected five Cuban lines, five
Soviet lines, three Czeth lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav
line. “At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of
conversations of interest which were then included in’a daily resume
for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,
full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

6200. 164,

EPRODUCTION
PROMISED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

a CO SERRET

a “ SECRET/SENSITE.

tr a language other than Spanish or English were taken to another location
for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-
tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the translations
usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation.

As soon as the Station learned that an American identifying him-
self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the |
Station started screening all photographs. However, here an >» there

was a backlog because the photographs were picked up

@ week

eS
but those picked up were usually for dates a eS Bare since the
ste

night-time basis.

technician who was processing the. film, A

al
Further, photographs were not madi Coe a complete roll of
film was used. Later “sae and the operator cleared the camera
i : .

at the end of each day re! ss of amount of unused film remaining.
The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to
photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with
foreign license plates. Human error did occur but generally the agents

+ were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated
equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed mechanical. dif-
ficulties.

Oswald came to the attention of the listening post operators

from a tap of thé Soviet line. It was picked up and taken to.Mr. Boris

‘ 0000162

5
SHISHNE 7

coo

| REPRODUCTION 7
PROKISITED



13-00000

oh

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying to speak in Russian.
There was some delay because Station Personnel waited to compare the
photographs with the typed transcript. All transcripts were made in
either Spanish or English since the Chief of Station could read only

these two languages and because he personally screened the transcripts

for operational leads.

~ 9000163

SEGRET/SHIVE IQ

EPRODUCTION
PROAISITED


13-00000

+ REPROpMETION

REPRODUCTION
pameGREt

(SECRET -

10 Feb 77
Source: tiotes made by A. Goodpesture
for John Leeder, IG Staff

Subject: Background on Hexico Stetion Support Assets
(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies)

1. Unilateral coverage. From the time the Mexico Station vas osened in
April 1947 (by Bill Doyle) until arrival of Win Scott as COS in 1958, Charles
Anderson III (still in LA/HQ) had developed a support apparatus to
exploit leads from the Soviet Enbassy. This umbrella type project (LIFEAT)
éoasisted of multi line phone taps, three photo sites, a mobile surveillance
team and a mail intercept operation.

a. Fhone taps were placed by an employee of the telephone company

who was handled by David WILSTED (pseudo). The number of lines
tapped was linked ty availability of a listen: ost nearby

(since the taps were not made in the mai ind English/

gh
Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Czech, éte)tzanvcribers. Generally
nie

‘or’ Mexican Anerican) were related
:

these agents (nostly'

(which at tine felt was good security in that

if they teiffed about shop, they would talk to each other.)

b, Three photo sites were handled by Anderson with the kelp
of Harry Mahoney (retired, living in Chicago) end TDY TSD
people checking the best type of camera, film, and concealment
devices. These had sub-cripts under. LIFEAT (LIMITED, LILYRIC,
and LICALLA), LIMITED was a fixed site bang opposite across
the street from the front gate of the Soviet Enbassy which had
both a vehicle and foot entrance. The Soviet gate was on the

Northiest corner of their compound and LIMITED was diagonally

D

across a, double barrelled street on the Southgest pornstetete 1
ce Dae te. {SECRET Cote tsh i

Lvov16ed

ORBAN

SECRET
CAT

1


13-00000

"REPRODUCTION
a __ PROGIBITED

- 27 (SECRET

that block. LIMITED was ihe first Lese and it operated strictly on an

cl basis in the early stages, I think the ik
one storey
this property (2/Sranish Colonial stone house) through LINOUSTIE (check to

4 Station bought

be sure). Later this house began to fall apart. This base was closed when
the Station got word thet the photo of "uniden nan" was being released to the
public by the Warren Cosmission. The fhoto operators were moved to another apt |
nearby. The property vas sold (under an operational agreement with LIMOUSINE
for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment blding to te built
on this site).  LILYRIC vas planned es an alternate photo base to LIMITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on the sate side of the street

as LIMITED but. in the middle of the block South, It had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Zxbassy, The agents in LEMTED and LILYRIC (both
Vexican fanilies) as far as we knew, were not acquainted with each other.
LILYRIC was a rented apartment, LICALLA, the third phata, site.) was located

in one of a row of four houses on the South, si#GCdE thie Soviet Enbassy compound
EN pee

which the Mexico Stetion purchasgda i 958 (check date), also using :
ax f

LIMOUSINE as the 71

ay 4 .
nase AV ‘this site overlooked the back garden of af

%
the Soviet dnbassy conputid. The purpose of this operation was to get good

identification photographs of the Soviet

sonnel (vho at thet time were largely
unidentified in Mexico Station récords). The three photo sites were handled by
Remon Alvarez (Mexican citizen of U.S. mother who taught elerentary level at i
the American School). Remon collected the filu opkkentaasebueméttm from LINITED
and LILYRIC three tines a week, His sister's husband, Carlos (‘exican doctor)
developed ond printed the film into. 8x10 contact print strips. The master plan
vas for LICALLA film to ve processed ie aide TSD nan fron 1957 to 1959. (Harper
Holt - resigned) could'not handle the volume end as the unprocessed film began
to accumilate, the ‘inside CO (Mahoney) becawe disgusted and took the film out i
1

for Ramon's brother-in-law to process (probatly early 1959). Thus Razon became

the handler for all three photo tpses. A.sensitive staff D monitoring operation i
[SECRET 4 !
0000165

| REPRODUCTION
| PROBIBITED "


13-00000

‘REPRODUCTION
PROLIBITED

was run out of another ohe of these houses (crypt for the four houses wes

L.

IST,1, ets). This was hardled by Glen VIDDEN (outside TSD officer) and

Vahoney using HQ TDY teams for monitoring. This operation ves also separate

from LITALLA, Tke two houses in betucen

were rented to unsusrecting tenants.

c. Mobile surveillance ves developed by Anderson and later placed

under Mahoney and Joseph Sancho, This team consisted of a half
dozen or so agents who used three to four late model cars end a
panel truck (which could be used on stake_outs for photo covere-e).
The plan was to activate this group by radio (from LIMITED BASE)
when someone of interest left the/Eabascy gate and stay with then
until they made their meetings. These agents knew about the LEGTED
BASE befause they had LLITED photos for identification purposes.

This worked fairly well until about the middle of aes (check date)

when one of the surveillance agents got too crete) ‘his target and

was arrested by the Mexican crane ot. ‘pion over to the

Mexican Secret Service,

“i ay,

ve .

Bani gthe Stetion could arrange through |.

gen, out (Judd Austin of the Goodrich,
=
firm), the agent:had identified Sancho (who wes

a cleared attorn¢

»

Little and Rig
evacuated across the border at Nogales by Bob Shaw) and the inside-—
phone number of Mahoney (who was subsequently replaced by Louis . a
Puckett). As a result of this flap, the LIFTAT project was broken

i
|
i
up into several others. The agents were not changed but vere given i

Frank
new crypts. /Estencona ard Peggy Haggard replaced Andersén in handling
the unilateral phone taps. Puckett replaced Mahoney and handled the

surveillance team (LIEJTRAF) and the photo ‘bases. throiigh Remon.

d, LIBIGHT was the crypt used. for a unilateral (originally) mail

intercept handled by Charlie Anderson III, The agent (Mexican) had

a semi official status snd arranged to obtain ‘selected letters from

. : TERT

“~ - 0000166 -

REPRODUCTION =
PROHIBITED s

a


13-00000

REPRODUCTION =
PROSIBITED oo r

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

ang SREY,

stal system (I think at the airport). His case

vere lster/Puckett, Rovert Feldmann, and Alan White.

2. Liaison coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by the nature
of the Nfexican services at thet tine. The Mexican D?3 (Direction of Federal
Security) with which ve dealt vas s hip pocket croup run out of the iinistry

Of Gov:rnment. This ilinistry srent a major pert of its tine on control of
foreigners and rolitical investigations. Their azents were vicious, venal,
corrupt extortionists. Robert Mclverg established contact with one of them ange
Levine De Leon (later LIFIRE group) in about 1950 or 51. He geve them some
training (a group of about five surveillance types) in travel control vorking

the airport. as well as file searches of names fron DFS Eqtrs where the files

vere poorly organized and often inaccurate, low and then;"honévgr, soe useful

infornation ves developed but it could not de cette ea upon. Nelberg was

replaced by Fail. Roettinger, (resig
Hazlitt, and Robert Perapana ent
During 1958, WarScott net socially sone of the chronies of the
Mexicen President elect, Adolfo Lopex Vateos. During this period, the U.S.
Ambassador Robert C, Hill (reflecting the policy of then Sec State J.F, Dulles)

was energetic in organizing groups to "fight conmunisn™. One of these seeds

grew into a proposal Miguel Aleman (jr. son of former Mexi President), acting
for Lores Nateos, made to Win Scott for a joint telephone tap operation. This
project (LIENVOY) went through about four distressing years of a shakedown.
The Mexican in control (LIELEGANT) was inexperienced, old, end greedy. His
son (LIEVOY-2) vas a masterpiece of ‘deceit and corruption. LIZLECANT also

manipulated control over the principal agent of LIBIGHT mail intercept. The

first case officer was-Alfonso Spera inside with Turner Smith (retired) outside
and Jokn (TSD training officer for surveillance and head of the listening

post where thirty telezhone Lines would connect as well es a transcription roca

| SEEET

0000167


13-00000

|
|

R

“REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

staffed ty

dean arny officers.) ed to net every
demand made by the Mexicans, Both Smith end John hed lenguage difficulties and
personal probtlens associated with being outside the stction so thet the Mexicans
were virtuelly uncontrollavle, spendi .¢ money as they pleased, squirrelling away
equipnent at enormous costs, and neglecting their vert of the sargain in the
production of transcripts or placing taps which we vanted. Szera was replaced
by Jack Brady vho found himself in the sane pincer movement of having Scott
approve a request by LIELEGAHNT that Brady had turned down by the son, LIEFYOY-2.
Finally when the cost became exhorbitant and there wes little to show for it,
the project was revamped. Smith and John returned to the U.S. and were replaced
by a TSD officer, Charles Flick, who vas put inside the listening post to maintain

ady was reassigned to other duties rendirg a.trensfer.
the equipnent./ Scott took over the project as case offi cee sseeting with LIELEGANT.

He designated Ann Goodpasture to meet dailing Rais Sor’ routine supervision

of the listening post, picking up tronsartite, os tages. Goodpasture hed no

dealings with the Mexicans crags 5 Scott vas i11 or out of town. Generally,
all decisions were nade age t This was about late 1961.-

3. My memory is a little vague about the origins of the Cuban Babassy but I
think the staff first developed from a pro-Castro group celebrating on New
Years eve 1959. As I recall, it was a sakeshift arrangement of volunteers
through most of 1960 end 61 with Tom Hazlitt producing voluminous reports on
their activities and recruitirg agents right and left exong Cuban netionals in
Mexico City.

4. Personnel assignments. Of interest to us now is, who was in Mexico during
the period prior to Oswald's visit and the subsequent investigation by the
Warren Coxmission. To deterine who ves there and what they were doing I

have groped persons tozether chronologically with areas of their assignment

as the
covering fiom 1950 ‘to 1969:so that kukkex names pop up, ‘one can tell what

hele ves
period they were in Mexico and their assignments at the time.

SECRET, ee

EPRODUCTION
PROWIBIMED 2



—___ Paottonre

-& SECRET,

8/56-6/69 COS Winston

Scott (deceased)

: ee -—RAgPRODUICTIEE
L.

pecs 7/56 - 7/58 Alfonso Rodriguez (retired)
10/58 - 12/62 Warren Dean (retired)
6/63 - 9/65 Alan White (retired)—
10/65.- 1969 Stanley Yatson (retired in Nexico)

COVERT ACTION . =
Prior to 1954 Howard Hunt (retired)

12/54 - 7/58 Williard Kill (resigned)
12/56 - 9/61 Stannard Short. (retired)

: Chief

9/6. - 3/64 David Phillips C/(retirea) ~
8/62 - 9/64 Gunner Beckman Asst ~

2/64 - 6/65. Janes Flannery G/(retirea)—- |
9/64 - 11/66 Harold Dalghren Asst
10/65 - 1967 Stanley Watson C/(retired)

66 - 68 Don Heath

68 - 71 Joseph SmithC(retired in Mexico)

CUBA OPERATICUS * : . |

56 - 4/62 Thomas Hazlitt Chief ot iy
2/60 - 4/62 . Jack Stewart (retired Costa Rigs 4
4/63 - 4/65 Bob Shaw Chief — At i)

9/63 - 7/65. Ray Swider — ; SANS)
10/63 --5/65 Lorna Mackay (ta AD :
8/6B - 6/65. David Phill: ans) — |

9/65 - 10/68 Joseph Picco.
1o/és - 1/67 Posey vacgen

i

goer TARGET lb
57 ~ 10/59 Louise Lyon (mtosd) 6/62 — 1/67 Prentice Marheine i
9/59- 8/65 Herbert Manell Chief— (retires 2) ae

i
9/59 - 8/65 Barbera: Manell — Outside CO
5/64, - 7/66 Willian Bright “ |
4/65 - 11/67 Cynthia Hausmann i
6/65 - 7/67 Alice Pittinger i
7/65 - 4/69 Paul Dillon Chief i
SOVIET TPANSCRIBERS — 1

6/56 - 8/58 Morris’ Gordon (resigned) : i

6/58 = 6/63 George itisko — | !
6/63 - 70 Boris Tarasoff (retired in Mexico) ~ |



13-00000 -

PROKIGNTED

SUPEORT ASSETS
Unilateral phono taps |

1949 ~ 1961 Cherles Anderson ITI Chief 49-71 7 Outside co

4/55 - wee Peggy Kaggord Asst David YILSTFD (ps) : .

2/56 - Frenk Estancona Chief Fetired in Mexico” H v

2/60 ~ Wes Thomas Keenan —
: 9/64, - 12/67 Hickael Farmer

Unilateral photo Cubans

6/59 - 4/64 Robert Zambernardi (resigned Mexico)
7/59 - 6/62 Richard Srathar TSD (retired)

Unilateral photo Soviets

3/54. - 4/59 Harry T. Mahoney
(retired Chicago)
5/57 ~- 8/64, A. Goodpasture (alternate CO —
and internal routing)
6/58 - 6/63 _Lovis D. Puckett (retired)
6/63 - Lo/6E Thowias Keenan seobenf HascAl

65 - 66 William Bright " ee
a

Liaison phone taps

1959 - 1969 Winston Scott (deceased)

1959 - 1960 Alfonso Spera (retired)

1959 - 1960 Turner Smith (outside, now retired)

1959 - 1960 John” (Training rept resigned)

1960- 1961 John Brady (retired)

1962 + 1968 A. Goodpasture -

1961 - 1971 Charles Flick (outside TSD Staff Agent - retired)—

Lyeison - surveillance

Prior 1954 Robert Melberg (retired)

3/54 - 4/59 Harry Mahoney (retired)
‘59 - 1961 Thonas Hazlitt

12/62 - 9/67 Robert Feldnann

TSD Gutside unit

4/58 - 12/63 Glen Widden (retired) —
8/59 -4/64 Joseph 3. Rescigno: (ps). Unit blown and closed duvn

0000170

' REPRODUCTION
Pret ITED

REPRODUCTION



13-00000

R

; REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED —

. SEGRET
en

About nid 1962 (check date) LIFNVOY outside Mexi rept asked
for the telephone nunvers of the Soviet, Cuban, and Satellite Embassies.

With this forewarning, LIFEAT (unilateral coverage) ves disconnected. However,

as I recall, the Mexicans connected 5 Cuben lines, 5 Soviet lines, 3 Czech,

2 Polish, “and 1 Yugoslav line. The basekouse listening post had a live

monitor who nede skort summaries of interesting conversations for a daily
resume which was received each day around 8 a.n, (passed by Flick to Goodrasture
to get to Scott before 9.a.n.) Later (when the reel was completely recorded)
full transcripts were typed and passed to the station in the’ same way, hovever,
there was usually a time lag of a day or so, “Those transcripts which hdd
Russien or another language besides Szenish or English vent out of the listening
post the day after the transcript (of other conversations ret as) $A reei)vas

typed. These reels were taken to another serge em wd Were trenslated

and typed. ‘In the case of the Russtag badge
aah 3

bout Kk behind the dat. angverisation b f the
about a week bel e ste neta gaa igation because o! volume of

“Russian conversations ait ‘the’ cembers of the Soviet Exbassy. During this

Boris Tarasoff usually ren

period (fell of 1963) the reels were probably being brought into the station
and carried to Boris by one of the people from the Soviet Section or they nay
have been carried to him by Flick but I think I brought the reel in and gave

it to Herbert Manell to take to Boris, Herbert Manell and his wife Berbera.
handled ell of the processi:g of Soviet transcripts. Hy job involved screening
the photographs as soon as we learned thet the man calling hinself Oswald was
probably an Ariericen. However, here again there was a backlag because the
photos were picked up three tines a week but the ones picked up were usually

for dates a few.days preiiously because the doctor processed the film ona

night tine basis. Fhotogrephs were made usually until one roll vas used but
later we got 1t changed to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the
operetors.. akeared the caxera each day whether there was anynfiinxoxgs @ full

roll of film exposed. Instructions were to cover office hours, Photogres sh each

EPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

0000171

Ae



13-00000

* REPRODUCTION
PRONISITED

CORET

new Soviet and fanily, all foreigners and foreign licenee plates, Kunan i
error did occur but generally the agents vere conscientious, The Cuban
sabassy coverage had more sophisticated equipment (a pulse ca:era) bub it
frequently developed nechanical difficulties, Bob Zaxharnerdi end Spather

(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorne tackay screened
the film inside the station,

: I am certain thet the Osvald call came to our attention from the
Soviet line. It was picked ug end taken to Boris for a transletion because
the caller vas trying to speak Russian, Any delay vas caused by waiting to
compare the photographs with the typed transcript. ‘There were no copies of
trenseripts every made in languages other than Spanish or Zeglish because Win
ois ened the
y ee.

s

Scott could read only thoce two languages ard he

transcripts
%

0000172

Ee
SECRET,

REPRODUCTION = |
PRORIBrTED 2



13-00000

®Peatuengy

1G - Sener



13-00000

TUZSDAY 1th OCTOBER 1963

Coverqge: 900 to 1900

| PERT

Log Film 144 Weather 1/100
20 Eaxp Camera Setting 3,5-2.5"

1 1251 2URM platican con KAZ en el jardin

2unenn

« REPRODUCTION

SRHRHEHR EEK ESHER LEHR IE IRI BH BENE NES R RN SG BB ETS BHU BEE BRI SIENA SEOEOTEN,

40 nnn een
_+ 51180 UNM out
6 1205 LEON =| ‘in
7eineowne
8 1216 UMM aes

9 (216 UA M an

ern

Pr Tee e nnn
Pe
14 1248 VAZQUEZ out.

Berean HAD

16 1259 TIPO out

INESDAY 2 GCTOBER 1963

Coverage: 900 to 1900

“231139 ANOV out UMW a Norte por Tacubaya-Despide DEN-en Chev

375

Ce ee ey

Norte por Tacubaya en Ford37 verde(entré1141)

2URM de Oriente por Chicontepec de Falcon

de Sur por Tacubaya de_ enfehiotn Ctiev( sali61218)

as Sur por Tasybaya,

THURSDAY 3 October 1963

sir

. yee »
Noxtepor Tacubaya

vonnennnen

sonar ene

Norte-por Tacubaya

nono

Norte por Tacubaya de Chev (entré 1218)

Doverage: 900 to 1900

171200 UMW in de Norte por Tacubaya

18 1204 UMW out a Norte por Tacubaya en Taxi

ec ?

20 1213 UMM in de Sur por Tacubaya

21°1222 UMM out a Sur por Tacubaya

TEKH OSE

“neeibéenor

* PROGIBIMED

SECRET

71033 DF

372

noe nne

52137 DF

D 167

8882 DF

enone



13-00000

R

‘REP HUNETION
; PR

27 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Chancery 15-61-55

Item 295, page 3

At 1626 hours, A Soviet calls from the Soviet Embassy Chancery
to the Cuban Consulate and asks for Sylvia DURAN. He asks

DURAN if the american has been there.

DURAN: Yes, he is still here.

SOVIET: According to the letters that he showed them from the (Soviet)
Consulate in Washington, he wants to go to the USSR to stay
a long time with his wife who is Russian, but also the
answer had not been received (by him) regarding his problem.
That accordingly these transactions take 4 or 5 months but
without prior approval from the USSR, they have to request
and even then, they could not issue the visa heué™{in Mexico
City) without asking Washington. Yet accordingly’ this man
(the American), ~: showed him a letter imwhich:he” (the
American) is a member of an organizatidh. wor of Cuba
and said that the Cubans could not give*hint the visa without

the Russian visa and now the § echoes" know what to do

with him, because he has torWs r’the answer from
Washington. wae VAS
DURAN: ..with them’also, becaijse. thy problem with him (the Anerican)

is that he doesn} ysanyone in Cuba and in that case it

is very diff} give him a visa, because he was
thinking of sing his visa, because he knew it was
going to take wong time waiting for the Russian visa in
Cuba, and then go on to the USSR.

SOVIET: ..that the thing is that if his (the American) wife were

~" now in Washington (and) going to receive the visa right now

or the permission from the USSR to return to her country, (if)
she is going to receive her visa in Washington, then having
this visa, she can communicate to whatever place, this
permission, for example, here or in any other place (he) can
receive it, but right now they do not have them.

DURAN: fa coreaany and neither can (the Cubans) give him a letter
because they do not know if the visa will be approved.

SOVIET: They can only give the visa according to instructions.

DURAN: | Then that is what she will put on his application.

SOVIET: Neither can I give him any letter of recommendation because
I don't know him and pardon me for bothering you.

DURAN: It was no bother, thank you very much.

ate 0000175 SECRET

Gpy 20F7 SECRET i

EPRODUCTION
PROGMBIMED


13-00000

R

27 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Consulate 15-60-55

Ts REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

Item 74, page 2

‘An unidentified man (speaking Spanish) calls the Soviet Embassy
Consulate at 1037 hours and asks for the Consul. He is told that
the Consul is not there, The unidentified man asked what is needed
to get visas to go to Odessa. He is told to call back at 1130 hours.

Item 137, page 2

At 1235 hours a man named ALATRISTE (not a Soviet) from inside the
Soviet Embassy Consulate calls out to number 45-37-72 (Colonial
America, probably a pension or hotel but number not listed in the
telephone directory) and speaks with a man named SAN ROMAN.
ALATRISTE says that he is in the Russian Enbassy and they need to
know what day the boat "KALONIA" will arrive in Odessa, that the
Soviets will also need copies of the passenger manifest...

(One concludes that ALATRISTE and SAN ROMAN are shipping+fepresentatives
for the boat "KALONIA", and needed routine visa infonnation,\/First
a call was made to the first listing for the Soyiet. Embassy in the
Mexican telephone directory (which turned outet0 be~ the Military Attache).
They got the phone number for the Consulat the address. After
making a call to the Consulate and learnimaAthat it would not be open
until 1130 hours, ALATRISTE went. t@*thgveddress to get the needed
information.) Counts has

oe

3

«Item 395, pages 7 and 8 een oan
: eS

Just after 1600 hours, ‘the Soviet Consulate received a call from the
Cuban Consulate (Sylvia DURAN) who said she had there a U.S. citizen
who had requested a transit visa to Cuba because he is going to the
USSR. DURAN wants to know with whom he spoke at the Soviet Embassy
because she sent him over to them telling him that if the Soviets
approved the visa then the Cubans would give him one without anything
more, advising the (Department of) Immigration in Cuba. She wants
to know with whom he spoke because he says that he doesn't know
either with what person and who told him that certainly there would
be no problem.’ The Soviet asks DURAN to wait a minute. After a
short wait DURAN explains the sae thing to another Soviet. This
Soviet tells her to leave her telephone (number) and her,name and
someone will return the call. DURAN gives her name and telephone
number 11-28-47 then says as a personal thing, she has moved and

has not advised them of a change of address so will not receive their
Bulletin and can give it to them now. The Soviet asks her to call
KOUKHARENKO in order to change that address and asks for the name

of the (Cuban) Cultural Attache. DURAN says it is Teresa PROENZA
whose number is 14-13-26. The Soviet thanks her.

60061765

ja

EPRODUCTION —
PROHISITED


©. s pikector
ROM + MEXICO CITY

<CTION: WH &

“FO y Cl, Cl/oPs, ci/ic 2, Fl, SR 7, RF, VR
XX

eF GR ET ao77g3z

NIR CITE|MEXT 6453 ) al

LOTMPROVE

1, ACC LIENVOY 1 OCT 63, AMERICAN “ALE WHO SPOKE 8R9KEN RUSSIAN

on") WIS NawANBEE OSwaLD CPHONETIC), STATED WE AT, SOVENR ON om

SFMT WHEN SPOKE WITH CONSUL YHOM HE SELIeven SEWALERIY VLaDIMTeOvICH
Sear Tun", SUSY ASKED SOV GUARD IVAN ORYEDKOW WHO ANSVERED, IF THERE
AveTHING NEw RE TELECR&I! TO WASHINGTON, ORYERYO UPON CHECKERE Sa TD

NOTHING RECEIVED YET, BUT REQUEST HAD FEN SENT.

*1PCa § FEBT, REAEDING HAIRLINE,

AWD SPRT SHIRT. SOURCE LER ,
v

3. NO LocaL DISSEM.
TE CRET.

Di 200-S-Y]

pharm eS Ena

on ete enn tp



. nem

Onte.s LADILLINGER
EXT CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
DISTR: _Comme:.Chronos.... | SECRET s |
. G Boro Sov Conbasts 30 5, CLASSIFICATION
ROUTINE | | OPERATIONAL | wire |
: DIR INFO, i lL
LCIMPROVE ;
i 1. OCT 65, AMERICAN MALE WHO SPOKE BROKEN RUSSIAN SAID EIS
NAME WALD (PHONETIC), STATED HE AT SOVEMB ON 28 SEPT WHEN SPOKE WITH
i c WEG HE BELIEVED HS VALERIY VEADIMIROVICH KOSTIKOY. SUBS ASIC SOV’

GUARD IVAN OBYEDKOV WHO ANSWERED, IF THERE ANYTHING NEW RE TELEGRAM TO
WASHIROTON.. ge
HAD ERY SEuP.

2. - HAVE PHOTOS MALE APPEARS BE AMERICAN Seno ie sons,

Pcssoaray sean |

eu BValen- \

. keer

CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

ee QUTGQING
SS

SSSI Sete

| GAD Lene mee ey .
Punt ZOORDINATING OFFICERS
| pane sh tek WAngLE. SECRET weourris

0000178

RB

ala

PRODUCTION — | 7
PROWIBITED

ein te in ine nes eatin nate



13-00000

es , v CLASSIFIED anil REPROD

, BUSTOS: Jpm
UNIT: . WH/3/Mexteo 0 INDix dy SECRET

oo
ors 5940 1 No INDEX lp
DATE: 70 Oct 1963 0 FILE IN CS FILE KO. a
“to + MBXICO CITY cs copy; ce
PY;-
FROM: DIRECTOR :: ” ti
CONFI 8 +
‘InFo'rappp, cl, ci/oPs, Ch/: Fie SRT, RF, VR:
XxX i ‘
1 MERI INFO, . : CITE oR
REF? | MEKI 6453: (IN 36017)*,

. ‘. 1.. LEB OSWALD WHO \CALLED SOVEMB 1 OCT PROBABLY IDENTICAL
‘LEE. HENRY, GRAD (201-,289248 ) BORN | 38 OCT 1939, NEW ORLEANS,

. LOUISIANA, .F0 [FORMER “RADAR, OPERATOR, mt Leta) STATES MARINES

WHO DEFECTED TO. USS2 ‘Nor 1959. oswALD Is £,

. “INCHES,” ONE HUNDRED. SIXTY. FIVE, POUNDS,-

‘ATES EMB, IN MOSCOW,
_-INDICATING HE BAD. *BOVIET. CITIZENSHIP. ON 13, ¥EB
THE .US. ENB MOSCOW ee OSWALD
POSTMARKED MINSK ON Five FEB 1961 IN “mac SUBJ INDICATED
[PPE AS, WISHED, TO RETURY 70 USA

,. STATES, CUT IZENBET?, 10 THE

40}

3 IF "WE COULD coms: 70 SOME AGREEMENT CONCERNING THE -DROPPING
jor aN Bas» PROCEEDINGS ‘AGAINST ME: =" ON 8 JULY ON HIS OWN
INITIATIVE. HE APPEARED AT THE. “EB. WITH. HIS. “WIFE To SEE ABOUT

wa DOI“ REILLY
HIS RETURN TO STATES. suBs STATED THAT. HE ACTUALLY HAD REVER — oe
APPLIED FOR power, CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLICATION AT (6 QX63
COORDINATING OFFICERS (CONTINUED) «.

AuTHENTLcATING

&
3.
a
a
2

12)

18

em
cA
S
iret
g
a

RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY. OTHER THAN. THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. 2 ss. Copy Now

CS COPY;

SS ATM oh REN a ITS:

ae ti cat ree

REPRODUCTION
“PROHIBITED



13-00000

. » REPRODUCTIO!
PROHIBITED:

1262

CCASSIEIED MESSAGE

: ROUTMG
Tr IND ‘SECRET } 7 3
ONO INDEX 2

sUOVFILE IN CS FILE NOW -7° A ore

ese a :
M vy. Number a
ROMs DIRECTOR : | For sterile copy of this documenty

cones”

INFO:

Luci hath dias, ake
OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING’ seats
APPLICATION, . Acconpina TO. aw “ATNED NO REF 1

CITIZENSHIP. aD ‘ST ‘i
Pad JAN 1960 1” Fpapio AND TV FACTORY -IN MINSK

“ WHERE WORKED AS MET. WORKER IN RESEARCH SHOP.” OSWALD WAS
MARRIED ON 30 APRIL 1961 ‘TO MARINA “ NIKOLAEVNA _PUSAKOVA ce

DENTAL ‘TECHNICIAN BORN 17.JULY.1941 USSR... NO ‘woes UTRACES ;
HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE‘ TO JOIN HIM Ty woscow So‘sHE
COULD APPEAR AT EMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW, HIS AUERICAN PPT; | be
WAS RETURNED TO HIM, US EAB MOSCOW STATED TWENTY MONTHS ;
OF REALITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

EFFECT ON OSWALD. eee 8.
3. LATEST HDQS INFO WAS. ODACID REPORT DATED' MAY 1962

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND -
BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT STATE

i
i
i
i
H

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD
G000180 ~

TO USA.

COORDINATING OFFICERS

* RELEASING "OFFICERY?

_ REPRODUS TION Tee TAL ie sine sae
PROMBITED

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

Copy te. L



13-00000

a ¢ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE €

‘opie:
Ui + 0 mex SECRET

xr or" NO INDEX 7 —
DATE + Gi FILE IN CS FILE No.

i
2
3

-T0 + peo

FROM: DIRECTOR

Rone 5 Derereco 48

ROUTINE
“INFO . cs
” PAGE THRES .

to iz “NFO cre or” 7TYUBP3O

ES af eee

Ae. STATION SHOULD PASS INFO REF AND PARA ONE TO

TPELIDE, ODENVY, ODOATH, AND ODURGE LOGALLY. iNFO PARAS
THRSE ORIGINATES WITH opacip.

> an American male who

his name Lee Oswald
Sov Emb on 28 Sept. when
“He discussed sending a telegrax
9 Jocal Dissemination had been made.

SR/CI/A/Boll (in draft) os
aison/Roman ) (in draft) Die 2cT2yy.

(an'dragt) rae or:
hs:

@.

ieee cfme3:

tT SSINES
@ WH/COPS_

: -appp 1 eoonpiWaTinG oFrieesS | saw
fe RELEASING OFFICER aa Fe . "Goenarsein
: ues SECRET’ ‘cercion

REPRODUCTION BY: OTHER THAN. THE-ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBIT!

REPRODUCTION Coy
“ PRORIBITED

i
1



13-00000

=

_ Co uneiass!Ftep Aaa con" ABE ON EN (EC
‘ Wer iVwwTey oe

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET :
‘ + Tena DAUR en |
SUBJECT: {Optional ae One Tete

noe meee DIR 24230 ays
one OLT LL 1963

ION ERD, designation. root AinPo ond |
tology Us ornicers | COMMENTS (Number och comment lo show from whom
- t TNITALS” | Je whom. Drow @ fine ocrost cslome citer #ach comment
[recawee Tromso] "i

SCOTT .
2 WH iE lal

oom

i 5 aan ; IMATION AND CESS
. a a : QNLY. DO NOT

‘OR INDEXING.
Au COPY TO:

ANE?C.-

sat 610 Metron SECRET _([] CONFIDENTIAL ci aT | UNCLASSIFIED -/
nc oe:
{
H ‘
{ : 0000182
i
t

' RePROOUCTION ;

*-PROMBITED



13-00000

_ REPHODUCTION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

~= PRATER
vy . 5 : ty
INFO: SECRET FILE: i

TRIALS — Tare

OPERATIONAL | WTTACT
MeSIATS Puo 1022292
Ayer INFO

ee
eusg® Eee

EE OSWALD WHO CALLED SOVEMB 1 OCT PROBABLY IDENTICAL
LEE HENRY OSWALD (20 1~289243) BORN 18 OCT 1939, NEW ORLEANS,
sLOUISIANM,~FORMER-RADAR-OPERATOR“IN UNITED STATES MARINES =
.WHO DEFECTED-TO USSR -IN OCT 1959. OSWALD IS FIVE FEET TEN |

“INCHES, ONE“HUNDRED- SIXTY FIVE. Pt
BLUE Hes. VE.POUNDS, LIGHT BROWN WAVY HAIR,

2. ON 31 OCT 1959 HE. ATTEMPTED TO RENOUN
STATES CUTIZENSH I> Torre -onzrEe-eTRTES En Fi HOSCUN; ?
INDICATING HE HAD APPLTED “FORSOVIET CITIZENSHIP. ON'43 FEB Ff W4an*~
IME US EMB MOSCOW RECEIVED AN UNDATED LETTER FROM OSWALD.
POSTMARKED MINSK ON FIVE FEB 1961 IN WHICH SUBJ INDI CATED@€\
“HE DESIRED<RETURN OF-HIS°US-PPT AS WISHED TO -RETURN. TO PVE
COULD” COME~TO*SOME AGREEMENT “CONCERNING: Set ERe Lr nN
OF ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME.” « JULY W
SHITTATIVE HE APPEARED AT THE Evo WITH WIS UIFE10 SEE ABOUT HIS
RETURN TO STATES. SUBJ STATED THAT HE veer | MAD NEVER APPLIED ;
FOR.SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT.HIS APPL we
THAT TIME HAD BEEN TO’ REMAIN IN USS PT NPORARY EXTENSION
: ae REQUEST. THIS

APPLICATION, "ACCORDING TO OSW. Ne INED NO REF TO SOVIET
CITIZENSHIP e="OSWALD “STATED. - BEEN EMPLOYED’ SINCE>~ aan eee

[ DerEnRED PRIORITY

13 JAN 1960. IN BELORUSSIAN 0 AND. TV FACTORY IN MINSK Dull? Qe
WHERE WORKED AS. METAL WORKER IN RESEARCH SHOP. OSWALD WAS. on
MARRIED ON 30-APRIL 1961 TO MARINA NIKOLAEVNA PUSAKOVA A a
DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN 17 JULY 1941 USSRe NO HDQS TRACES. / 4,

HE ATTEMPTED:-ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE

COULD APPEAR-AT.-EMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW. HIS AMERICAN PPT

WAS RETURNED TO-HIM. US EMB MOSCOW STATED TWENTY MONTHS

OF REALITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

EFFECT ON OSWALD. Zl

3. LATEST. HBQS INFO WAS ODACID REPORT DATED MAY 1962 5

| SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND .
| BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT STATE
: HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR’ THEIR TRAVEL | WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD

TO USA.
4, STATION SHOULD pass “INEO BEF AND_PARA ONE J .
TPELIDE,. OD DOATH, AND ODURGE LOGALL YS —TNFO-PARAS -

0)
THO AND THREE ORIGINATES WITH ODACID.
(CONT PAGE=TYO)

SECRET

cLassiricaTion

INCOMING

6000183

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED



13-00000
afer

pistR:

ACTION:

INFO:

| REPRODUCTION
cassie nesioe , PROMIBITED |

FILE: : .
CLASSIFICATION,

TNTFTALS
bererneo PRIORITY

meant WARTS
sounme | | Snanzsrene™
5 ino CITE
PAGE TWO DIR 74830--IN 5945 . : NOmBER
“Se ~ REF*AND" POSSIBLE: IDENTIFICATION BEING’ DISSEMINATED -
TO HDQS OF ODENVY, ODACID, ODOATH, AND ODURGE. PLS KEEP
HDQS ADVISED -ON-ANY FURTHER CONTACTS OR POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION
FO:

R

te eek nh patent nmi

SWALD »

SECRE

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING.

EPRODUCTION

t

PROGID = _



13-00000

EPwonUucTiol
PROMIECTED.

~
ont

TO DIRECTOR

: —=
FROM 4 VEXICO CITY : ?

. Beary

ACTON, WH 8 i ; Do
INFO + ADDP, Gly Ch/oPs, ct/sp, FI, 5R'7, AF, VR a S
—~XX___fen Suen a9 1S New . : ; e

SEURET 1517302 Sy , 7

Oo ors ve
LOIveRovE
F°F DIR 7ag3q ¥

"LS POUCH PHOTO oswaLp,

SECRET oe =

f
C/S COWENT: *ATTEMPTS OF LEE OSWALD’ AND WIFE To REENTER us,

0000185

6 APR 1996
a conpucrep ‘on_L

Document Number fee er

“1 FOIA Reviewton APR ‘S76. ; [Ezmroer oe we deazet|

2b (- RETRYS
di i 3 Ca, ' [S @et 67



13-00000
aa c4

“STR ono + SECRET
Oswara. CLASSIFICATION

~_— , REPRODUCTION
8 pees, Rc ARMED |

|_| _pererrep priority |" | = neuen
; -|OPERAT ras
bok routine | | Chiwenares | |
ig DIR INFO, CIE MEX 6534 [_
mama
LCTMPROVE
" REF? DIR 74850
PLS POUCH PHOTO OSWALD. -
13
Document Humber =
a
$n POM Raven OB oS ROS
Same AS eg
S

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GFGESTEDNER: WCCURTIS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER RELEASING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION ;
PROAIBTTED =



nePamDUCTION
PRORICITED |

15 Oetoper 3583

PSHORA FOR 2 Whe fabassador
Batt + Vineton 4. Scott

7c i
Es + Lee gules tect with the Soviet tpnasy
CAmbessadoa wetifred by COS Te7E+ ign th

L, The following tnformntion wes received fra a ueunlly rel!
oxtrenely senaitire sources: On 1 Getouer 1965, on American mele «
the Soviet Subassy and identified himself as Loe OSWALD. ‘This officer ce-
termined that OSUAED bad bem at the Sovict Ia>asey cn 20 Uepteaber 1963 and
had toiked with Yeleriy Viadi~irtyoch ZCSTTXOV,  meaber of the Consulcr
Gection, in order to leam if the Soviet ichocoy bed received a raply fron
Waaiinston conpemins his request. We here no clarifying information with
regard to this request. .

2. Car Seodpurtera hes inforsed us that the OSWALD-above is probably
identicel with LeeHenry OSTALD, torn en 18 October 159 in Nev Srieans,
Louaieta, a Zorser radar operator in the U. 3. Martie: Corp who defected
40 the Soviet Exton in October 1959. ;

3. Thais office will advise sou 1z tide information on this matter|
io recetved. AO, 7

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
lconoucten on_} 6 AFR

“ Eesional Security Officer ~ PLEASE NEMORN TO 113
i ce ~ Legal attache
se ~ Naval Att
ae FANS
Le07 > lise Honvy OSWALD Pp
ee =

fase Tx =

atcon with Navel Aigpene
‘Document numbed a
A Review on nek ww .

[reco CoP] BO/-ASIALS

for FOU

No memorandum to Legal Attache on 8
Actober 1963; however, note memorandum
to US Anbassador (dated 16 October)

also included Legal Attache in distri-

bution.

: pote 0000187

|

 REPRODUCTI
PROMIBITED



13-00000

FS COPY, p.o. #1 - Ualt

ico cliy

ite
Hoter iE destruct tom rdinatd

Action: C/WH 5 tee PY ISSUED TO DCI, 1810 22, NOV BP wote: rn
 KOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1809, 22 Nov BP] 2 ertate.
INFO; NCL, p/oel, opp, ano, C/cl, C/Fi 2, C/sR 5, @/sas 5, d/ or VR

XX.

REF: | Ae. YMEXI 6453 (m3 Gol?)
B. }DIR 74833 =
C.4, MEXI 6534 {in 40357)
lL ACCORDING YOA. BROADCAST HEARD AT STATION oe
PRESIDENT KENNEDY ASSASSINATION, ONE LEE H. oswat PAGE ee

aT STATION

CAN CHECK ALL RECENT LIENPTY COVERAGE FOR IDEN. FSCRYARDING
SOONEST COPIES OF ONLY VISITOR TO SOVEMB 28 OCT wkO COULD
BE IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD.

SECRET

Boe AITAGL

DYE ex We A aed [Ba
cunt Nutier S=I 2

_for FOIA Review on aa 1976

Reagent

-PROuNBTTED #ptetg Ss GES



13-00000
be

4)
REPRODUCTIC!
ons: G.F.GESTETNER
|exts CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pate: PRONITED
ares MEGHAONO owen] ae ean 98

i] ]-_ perernep priority ~| “ome

i ~ OPERATIONAL [warts

Hl ROUTINE _JMMEDIATE ~

to.“ IMMEDIATE DIR. INFO, cireMexr ___
RT

RYBAT a

mehr MEXE 6453087
B. DIR 74830 -
C. MEXI 6534

~ REF:

1,. ACCORDING VOA BROADCAST HEARD AT STATION REGARDING =:

PRESIDENT KENNEDY | ASSASSINATION,,,ONE.LEE_
Cy MERI SN ent
SBS

‘OF, PRESIDENT KENNEDY,
* ae
2, ‘DIRECT HOS ATTENTION BERR, ~~

REQUEST PRIORITY, P

H-PHOTO: OSWALD SO THAT STATION
v

= CLS

“CAN CHECK ALL RECENT ight COVERAGE FOR IDEN. FORWARDING
I

SOONEST COPIES OF ONLY VISITOR TO SOVEMB proct WHO COULD

BE IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD,

END OF MSG Dd
ii

oom
29-12,

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: CLASSIFICATION

CUTGOING



John i. whitter . a :
c/w 3° 1 Not

5813 OD No ince b-—_——— 5b N EPR

22 November 1963 (1 FILE IN CS FILE NO. =

30+ MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR US Copy,

DEC 4. 14

UMicROFiMeD i =
ce [freon
Mico ; DOP, Bd c/cl, C/Fi 2, icin 5, C/SAS 5, D/OS 2, VR
5 .
70 Deeps me INF, oon g 4802 --.

° : ts ae .
+ REP MEKt Tour Swi nerdy

el, TEAS THIS CONNECTION WAS ALSO NOTED HERE. ,

cite.
“Gent rast son.
me and coordinate

if appropriate:

CLASSIFICATION Av

» [Conoucren ond 6 APR 1g 1976]

s —- = ‘e4a20sPOET CL BY. YEE)
TH [arent —~ C3 COPY,
. s 7 COORDINATING OFFICERS . cRowr =
Rrcteeins[orviced 2 ; ct

. ad ‘Geciassification
= . REPRODUCTION BY OTHI \N THE ISSUING OFFICE: IS PROHIBITED.

zeta elt STORE le

0000190 -

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED



13-0000... oo

— ‘ “ REPRODUCTIO!

oistR:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE Paonia Me
ACTION: aes NN
INFO: : SECRET FILE:
guassmearion

Cae TRESS TOT
DEFERRED PRIORITY :
. OPERATIONAL | INITIALS A
ROUTINE _kexkxumeoiate | pyo | gx 2o293407 $663_ J

To 5 INFO Cau
IMMEDIATE MEXI ae DIRS!

etree
RYBAT . -

REF. MEXI “70 ta! °°"
1. THANKS. THIS: CONNECTION WAS ALSO NOTED HERE. -
2, TRUST YOU WILL BE ABLE USE ALL YOUR. FACILITIES TO FOLLOW AND

23/00222 SECRET

chass:

INCOMING.

CoS fee pre ry

REPRODUCTION a
PROBED. i



13-00000 7 ~ 7

REPRODUCTION
. - PROHIBITED

s]TO" sg DIRECTOR
‘prom + MEXICO CITY ; €8 gapy.
cmon, WH 8 (Mf WHITTEN, Wl & WIGHT SECURITY OFFICER NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT

; 2015, 22 NOV Bi
INFO: «DCI, p/oci; DOP, ‘ADB cl, cr/ors, cific 2, Fl, SR 7, SAS 8, 0S 2, VR

SECRET 230532

; . a)
IMEDIATE DIR cureaere aei3_ 24" a7e
REF: MEXI 7214/17 GO 76) e

(Biosucsas

¢/S Comment: ‘Request priority pouch photo Oswald so that Station can chack atl
recent coverage for identity, Forwarding soonest copies of only visitor to SovEmb.
28 Oct, who could be identice! with Oswald. . : j

|

4 ‘1. MEXI STATION’ Has PHOTOS oe wpairirn 0 AMERICAN

| TYPE wHo Is at seat EMBASSY ON 15

+] ocTOBER. “SEARCHING Foa a PHOTO-DOCUMENTED ENTRY. care
| CUBAN EMBASSY OTHER Days’ *- : : oo ae
‘f° a. ALSO ATTEMPTING ESTABLISH OSWALD ENTRY AND DEPARTURE

| max. ny ce ae

i SECRET ;

a

1
]

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

i Di ac0-S-4/
£8 COPY,
¥ Pocument a be 19

Lor FOIA Review on APR ‘15
!

0000192

| nero
— PROWIBTTED



13-00000

C. CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ons: JOHN M. WHITTEN ° + ia ROUTING
unt: G/WH/3 Tr iNosx bebe SECRET 7 4
ex: 5613 NO INDEX : 2 5
DATE : 22. Noy, FILE IN CS FILE NO. 3
MEXICO CITY OS p0py Hoy27 81 36263
FROM: DIRECTOR , 23 Nev 63 |
cone; WH 8 : . = ecient

wro: DCI, D/DCI, DOP, ADOP, Cl, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, Fl, SR7, SAS 8, =>
0s 2, VR

1O. (PRYY) MExI = NFO at Rare CITE oR 8 4 B2L
RE MEXI 7019 (IN 66846) + 7

SEND STAFFER WITHALL PHOTOS ae TO HOS,

Sat,
AVAILABLE FLIGHT. CALL MR. WHITTEN AT 65: 6827 Ora Ale

END OF

si
Document Number 3-13

for FOIA Review op = APR 1975

CLASICATION EE
ond 6 APR 1874

Digeo Bel Za was0et o1 evoke QWlE-ATIALT
J a23snvtés

JCONDUCTED

WY MaQhoe esdoaf, 63 Bopy,

JOHN M, WHITTEN by direction
GQRDINATING OFFICERS !
THOMAS KABAMESSINES ‘see ote aurienrigaring- 1")
= SECRET ‘cron FF i

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE-IS PROHIBITED. Copy Now:

| 0000193

REPRODUCTION
PROMBIMED ;



13-00000

ie?

: BIRCH O'NEAL
ISUSIG

: 5367

BATE + 23 NOV 63 __

‘TO + MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR

conF:CI/SI

i
iro :DC1, D/DCI, DOP, uxe(() ci/ops, CI/IC 2, Fl, SR 7, WHT; |
9% 2 WR ‘ IMMEDIATE H
10 IMMEDIATE MEXi Nf . cron B ABBE

REF: MEX! 6453 (IN seauryt

.. POSSIBLY’: PERTINENT T?. supsect REF,

Te ROR Re ae

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
CONDUCTED O}

CS Comment: Reported that on 1 October 63, an American male who said
his name was.Lee Oswald was.at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City.”

ol-ABTAES

7

=S=

a ™ : ‘, . eS Tues.

wae 0S copy,
Hadar seossmnaran ersen

RELEASING OFFICER

PEE
“roi. ., WHITTEN

HG? cctine
‘OFFICE

pelwa SEGRET.
1 REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy’ Ho,

CSR ed a ES tainted

PSSA

0000194

REPRODUCTION oe
PROHIBITED — | oo



aa. b.

‘ * REPRODUCTIO
oreree CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 7 PROS pie:

ACTION:

rie

THEOMINE TOTIER
PRIORITY :
OPERATIONAL | INITIALS if
YAMEDIATE | pula 2317167 $689.

IMMEDIATE MEXI DIR-g4ugRS

REFS MEXI 645300 : : €
. “IMPORTANT. vaujaevtea aur rewor Tiers AND TRANSCRIPTS
SINCE 27 SEPTEMBER TO LOCATE ALL MATERIAL POSSIBLY PERTINENT *
TO SUBJECT: REF. An

ze DISPATCH SOONEST BY. SRECIAL COURIER, STAFFER IF

INFO:

CEFERRED

ROUTINE

CHRONO DUMMY : . : we i
23/1891Z . SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

TEES TS Os

0000195

 REROONETION o4



13-00000

JOLIN M, WAITTEY

- REPRODUCTION
_ PROWIBITED..

Oo

FROM:

CONF: CAH 5

INFO: cl, D/oct, DOP, ADDP, C/Cl, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/os 2,
x VR

To DeeDrATe MEXI INFO

StS
DEFERRED.
ROUTINE E

nn 3
BARB

SENT TO

~ tL
qatar Ht Gost ract oordinat
reasons 204 oe.

CLASSIFICATION el 42 apprope: fT

QUO -F=¢ | leonoueren on 2 Del
ill
—s, ts bop ABNevt[s

; ‘
vailer®. Boos y . gt tc
‘wa/otes COORDINATING oFriceRs court C/E 3
RELEASING OFFICER ogeturmateate| — aurusitricazina
SECRET oe
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No
0000196

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBETED.



1 es aes

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

{SECRET
ie] 2 DIRECTOR
ROM 4 MEXT F ‘ ‘Oi
SCHON: ‘¢, 5 (MR, WHITTEN, WH, NOTIFIED AND COPY. SLOTTED AT 1255 34 Nov 63 LMS)

ve : ¢ pels D/bcly DOP, Apo, C/cl, C/Fi 2, ¢/sR 5, C/SAS 5, D/os 2, VR*
i 23tov 8 mE 7108
IMMEDIATE DIR” CITE| MEXI 7023 -~ > oe
7 * C/S COMMENT: *DISSEM}NATION -APPL [CABLE 70 RYBAT
LIENVOY__ . CABLES. aoe

1. ON 28 SEP 63 SILVIEs9URAN CUBAN EMB CALLED SOV
—_——

CONSUL SAYING NORTHAMERICAN THERE WHO HAD BEEN SOV EMB AND WISH E °s
SPEAK WITH CONSUL. UNIDEN NORTHANERICAN TOLD SOV CONSUL QUOTE aay
"I waS IN YOUR EMB AND SPOKE TO. YOUR CONSUL. I WAS JUST NOW AT 8 se
YOuR EMB AND THEY, TOOK ny ADDRESS.” SOV CONSUL SAYS "I KNOW THAT”. a
“ UNIDEN NORTHANERICAN SPEAKS RUSSIAN "I DID NOT KNow IT THEN. gt

“I WENT TO THE CUBAN. EWB.TO ASK THEN FOR NY ADDRESS ae
KAVE IT". SOV CONSUL “WHY DONT YOU COME AGAIN a your ot 6
ADDRESS WITH US IT IS NOT FAR FROM rena 1
NORTHANERICAN "WELL, I°LL BE T : riage MONITOR NOTES
UNIDEN NORTHAMER ICAN cro To y YaRDLY RECOGNIZABLE

- RUSSIAN.

2. IN VIE ALD IN SOV UNION AND FACT HE CLAIMED ON 1 ocr :
1 ' ate
LIENVOY TO HAVE VISITED SOV EMS 28 SEP, SUBJECT PARA ONE PROBABLY 4

OSWALD. ATION UNABLE COMPARE VOICE AS FIRST TAPE ERASED PRIOR

RECEIPT SECOND CALL. ae czze))
3. PARA THREE MEXI 7014 DATE SHOULD BE ONE oot 63. SANE

SUSJECT VISITED SOVEMB4 OCT BUT NOT RECORDER LIENVOY THAT DATE. ;
ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS. : 2Qor2@ETAYY

D 2 mu
pes NAKING EVERY EFFORT vEFERG osva.ps activities weKtose 65

SECRET : RES]

. REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

SOON Mele reat ean ania

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED



13-00000

ia  REPRODUCTIO
a parices CUSSSIFIED }4ESSAGE DATE: PRONIEITED

EMBER 1963

DISTR? ~GOMMO SECRET FILE: Gg593 >

CHRONO (DUMMY) peau) Silvia DURAN P-
‘NUMBEA ——
pananeo roam |
TIONAL | rariace |

ROUTINE XK IMMEDIATE

TO - IMMEDIATE DIR INFO. . CE MEXI -292t3——

“envoy DUP

1. ON 28 SEP 63 SILVIA DURAN CUBAN EMB CALLED SOV CONSUL
SAYING NORTHAMERICAN THERE WHO HAD BEEN SOV EMB AND WISH
SPEAK WITH CONSUL, UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN TOLD a

awe eee

QUOTE: "I: WAS IN YOUR EMB AND SPOKE TO YOUR CONSUIio? WAS

7 aa AD
. JUST NOW AT YOUR EMB AND THEY TOOK, PROESS. "SOV CONSUL
: ot
oo
>

+s
« SAYS#1 KNOW, THAT." UNIDEN Noni. “AN SPEAKS RUSSIAN "I
: Boe
DID NOT KNOW IT THEN, s THE CUBAN EMB TO ASK. THEM FOR
as Banc .
“MY ADDRESS BECAUSE HAVE IT," SOV CONSUL "WHY DONT YOU

COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WITH US IT IS NOT FAR FROM
CUBAN EMB,"" UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN "WELL, I'LL BE THERE
RIGHT AWAY," MONITOR NOTES UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN SPOKE
TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE RUSSIAN,

2 IN VIEW OSWALD IN SOV UNION AND FACT HE CLAIMED ON
1 OCT LIENVOY TO HAVE VISITED SOV EMB 28 SEP, SUBJECT PARA ONE

PROBABLY OSWALD, STATION UNABLE COMPARE VOICE AS‘FIRST TAPE ~
RAS COORDINATING OFFICERS:

. SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER (CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

soe ah E : : 4

net a 0900198



"REP HORUETI
| oxts CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pare: PROMIBI IBiTeD

OISTR:e , SECRET FILE:
Page 2. CLASSIFICATION

S:

TaITIACS Nummer

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

THITIALS |

TO INFO. CHE

Ronee
ERASED PRIOR RECEIPT SECOND CALL,
, REPEAT ONE.

3. “PARA THREE MEXL.701¢ SHOULD BE ONE/OCT 63. SAME SUBJECT

VISITED SOVEMB 4 OCT BUT NOT RECORDED LIENVOY THAT DATE,
Tha NA ee

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS,
EE

4, MAKING eel one ae Cee ACTIVITIES

COORDINATING OFFICERS:

RBR
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

wcc
RELEASING OFFICER

0000199

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBIMED



13-00000 . . wo

DEC 4 1974
“MICROFILMED

TO 1 DIRECTOR

C3 COPY;

FROM 4 yexico CITY

ACTION: c/sR 5, (MR. WHITTEN, WH AND MR, BAGLEY, ‘SR NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1605
23 NOV

wa)
‘NFO 4 DCI, D/OCI, DaP, AODP, G/Ck, C/ci/oPs, C/Fi, C/WH 2, D/OS 2, VR i
ix d

; — FICER STAMP
SCRET 2339112 | RECORDS OF'

ss
IMMEDIATE DIR CITe| MEXY 704 au MEXI 7924 aut
eee REDWOOD wae

Qe: c. ede

REF A. DIR 84837 *

R.O. fl - ea < PALS.
B. DIR 84885 *

Note: ire @ectruction, ite
Cc. DIR 84886 * reasons and coordinate

41f appropriate.
1. PARA 1 A REF A, STATION'S IMMEDIATE AND MOST es

%,
SHEK INDICATES Wot OTH ost I TRAV! i MOST RECENT

_Lninze REPORTING 6 THRU 19 NOV SHOWS Rake oy ENB EVERY
‘Day. «NO Liu IC REPORTING 9-19. mo) NOV.) WILL GET REPORTING
+ EARLY THIS AFTERNOON RE. KOs TITIES 22 NOV. PLACING HIM = “gy
UNDER LIEMBRACE SURVETILI 3 g
2. PARA 28 REF A, NO RECENT UNUSUAL KGB AND’ SO Pa aaneron ene 2 2
ACTIVITIES 17. NOV TO DaTe. . Jeonoucren of 6 APR 197642 3
3. WILL SATISFY.ALL OTHER REF A REQUIREMENTS A pRAPIMPOET CL By_22a20% | 3 it
4. REF 8, IMMEDIATE AND” PROBABLY DEFINITIVE CHECK SHOWS NO OTHER 3 i
ALFERIEV TRAVEL. LILYRIG REPORTING SHOVS ALFERIEV AT ’SOVEMB 6 2p
THRU 19 NOV. (NO uate COVERAGE, 9-10 AND 16<17 NOV.) : >
5. COVERING ALFERIEV ACTIVITIES SANE AS WITH KOSTIKOV.” WILL
FLACE Rit UNDER Liaice SURVEILLANCE ASAP. ae 29a F
Di200-S-41 24 68.60 ap

Prol- 368652,

SECRET

0000200:

acesigpmrtem ames ate eal

|
i

' PROIBITED _



Now this
tle eupy 0) 3
FORE SgiFIED MESSAGE

6.

bar

AND CUSAN EMBS, NO OTHER INFO AVAILABLE.

COMBING ALL AVAILABLE MATERIALS.

7.

OTHER THAN INFO ALREADY SENT RE OSWALD'S connect 2012 u
HOWEVER, STATION STAFF

STEPPING UP RECEIPT ALL INCOMING MATERIALS COVERING SOVEMS,

4 .
TRYING GET LIFEAT COVERAGE OF SWITCHBOARD OF APT BUILDING WHERE
RESIDE WIN KAZANTSEV, ee KG3 RESIDENT KONSTANTINOV AND SUSPECT

HOWEVER RECHECKING ALL UNERASED TAPES.LIENVOY CENTER.

"c/s COMMENT:
Kostikov.

GRU SHCKUCKKIN.

WAKE SPECIAL EFFORT RE AUDIO OP AGAINST SID.
KGB KUZNETSOV WILL BE PROCESSED ASAP.

8.

PROVIDES VERBATIM TRANSCRIPT S.

SEC

"ATE

HAVING Leave REPORT MOVEMENTS SIDOROV ae

INCOMING LIFEAT ON

iN

PROBABLE THAT OSWALD: CONVERSATION LIENVOY. TAPES ERASED.
6

SEP CABLE

frovich

bray



13-00000

“tg

: ) * REPRODUCTIO!
ORIS.: Ggax G.F,GESTETNER
exe CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pare: PROGID
OISTR.: | enet | FILE:
ERRONO (ot {pu My) [_ sete | Foemoy x

ALFERIEV P-

Taras ian
DEFERRED priority _ |
OPERATIONAL | wariaco
i ROUTINE 3 IMMEDIATE
10 - IMMEDIATE DIR INFO.

_RYBAT REDWOOD LCIMPROVE

REF: A. DIR 34837
B. DIR 84885.
CG. DIR 84886.

PARA oes Le Ae STATION'S IMMEDIATE, AND-MOST LIKELY

on "DEFINITIVE cuncx INDICATES NO OTHER KOSTIKOV aoaeeet UTSIDE

MEXI. -MOsT RECENT LILYRIC REPORTING 6 mang agi Ss

Le
KOSTIKOV AT Sov EMB EVERY DAY. weer SORTING 9-10

AND 16-17 NOV,) WILL GET REP( oy THIS AFTERNOON RE

ey
KOSTIKOV ACTIVITIES 22 as EA ae HIM UNDER LIEMBRACE
SURVEILLANCE,

2. PARA 2B REF A, NO RECENT UNUSUAL KGB AND SOVEMB
PERSONNEL ACTIVITIES {7 NOV TO DATE,

3. WILL SATISFY ALL OTHER REF A REQUIREMENTS ASAP.

4, REF B, IMMEDIATE AND PROBABLY DEFINITIVE CHECK SHOWS
NO OTHER ALFERIEV TRAVEL, LILYRIC REPORTING SHOWS ALFERIEV
AT SOVEMB 6 THRU 19 NOV. (NO DUE RIG, GQVERAGE 9-10 AND 16-17 NOv,) -“*

: SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

0200202

?
;
}
;
;
i
i
{
‘

REPRODUCTION r
PROHIBITED ;



exts CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pare: PROMIBITE f
ists . SECRET FILE: -
Page 2. CLASSIFICATION

rma _ NuMBER

: if DEFERRED priorty | = |
‘i ROUTINE OPERATIONAL [rasa]
. INFO. : cite

aor
ERASED PRIOR RECEIPT SECOND CALL,
fae REPEAT ONE
3. PARA THREE MEXI 7014 SHOULD BE ONE/OCT 63. SAME SUBJECT.

VISITED SOVEMB 4.O0CT BUT NOT RECORDED LIENVOY THAT DATE, =
eee Oe ee

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS,
leech iad

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RBR SECRET wcc
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
7 OUTGOING
Fee an .

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED



13-00000

OEC4 Ww
MICROFILMED

: TO + DIRECTOR £3 cop

FROM « EXIT.

ACTION® 6 Ad 5. “ua WHITTEN, WH, i aL SR, AND NIGHT SECURITY OFFICE NOTIF ED
IND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1700

INFO + 0c}, D/OCl, DOP, ADDP, epee bynes 8) c/sR Fabio PLE
KK
SECRET 2520342

print)

re

IMMEDIATE DIR

ON Sy
| BEES LIENVOY feonoucren 8 APH us x

! 43° FOLLOWING_FULL TRANSCRIPTS AVAILABLE, easons ani coordinate
if appropriate.

2.° ON 28 SEPTEMBER 1963 Lrewvoy REPORTED FOL: “ENTRADA MF Oe .

! CONSULADO DEL CUBA QUIEN DICE QUE ALLI EN. SU CONSULADO ESTA un’

NORTEAMERICANO QUE -ESTUVO ALLI EN LA EMBAJADADA RUSA. HD ot Byeu

“ESPERE UN MONENTO. MF ES SILVIA DURAN Y KABLA wel GUNA
PERSONA FUERA Y CONENTA EN ESPANOL QUE LA PU: an ELEFONO A”
APARICIO Y LO APUNTA QUE ES EL 14 12a9@54 83, s DIGE SOBRE EL = 9
“CIUDADANO NORTEANERICANG Y ER yaa aban, HF HABLA RUSO. a4:
HD LE HABLA EN INGLES.” Bai ASKS NORTHAMERIGAN “DO YOU ? =~
3
SPEAK RUSSIAN?” “THEN HY DONT-YOU TALK TO HINT" NORTHAMERICAN = 3
TAKES. PHONE AND SAYS IN BCRKEN RUSSIAN "I WAS IN YOUR EMBASSY AND 2
SPOKE TO YUOR CONSUL. JUST A MINUTE.” MAN IN SOV ENB ASKS 3
NORTHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAT DOES HE WANT? NORTHAMERICAN: _ FS j
"PLEASE SPEAK RUSSIAN”. SOVIET: “WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT?” NORTH-
AMERICAN: "I VAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY TOOK HY
ADDRESS.” SOVIET: “I KNOW THAT.” NORTHAMERICAN: “I DID NOT KNOW
Di2ed=S=¢ | - oad?
Patel Wo7Ls £8: RORY: 23 Nev G3
55 | Ee
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED Copy No.
OEE I a TA NEAT

REPRODUCTION |
“PROWISITED pe



13-00000

- t

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

To] si OUICTIO
IT THEN. I WENT TO THE CUBAN ENBASSY TO ASK THEK FOR “PpERTED
t

BECAUSE THEY HAVE IT,” SOVIET: JHY DONT YOU COME AGAL

YOUR ADDRESS WITH US. IT IS NOT FAR. FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY.”
NORTHANERICAN? “WELL I'LL’BE THERE RIGHT AVAY.” DOUGLAS J.
“PEINGLASS NOTED NGRTHANERICAN SPOKE TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE
"Russian. ; :

3. ON ONE OCTOBER 1963 AT 1045 HOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET EMB AND SA!n

“HELLO THIS IS 0

m

LD_SPEAKING. 1 WAS AT-YOUR PLACE LasT

SATURDAY AND SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID THAT THEY'D ea
SEND A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON SO I WANTED TO FIND OUT IF You HAVE

ANYTHING NEW? BUT I DONT REMEMBER THE NAME OF THAT CONSUL.”

SOVIET (EMBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOV)s “KOSTIKOV: HE IS DARK.”

“402 "YES, MY NAME IS OSWALD.” SOVIET: "JUST A MINUTE ‘I'LL .
FIND out. THEY SAY THAT THEY HAVEN'T RECEIVED ANYTHING
Oz "HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?” SOVIET: "YES THA STMT le
REQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT BUT natn ay ie AS YET.”
Os "AND WHAT..?” SOVIET HANGS eu

4. DOUGLAS J. Frivfecase’ 5 #rauscarPTioNs SAYS OSWALD IS
IDENTICAL WITH PERSON aa one ‘sPé HAKING BROKEN RUSSIAN WHO CALLED
FROM CUBAN EMBASSY 28 SeereMceatTOl SOVIET EMBASSY.

SECRET 2
CS Gervnents #Kequested Station review all LIENVOY (1) tapes and trans.
since 27 Sept. to lovate pertinent information on Oswald,

H 0000205 «sj

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED



mere PANE
wane pRotuateD

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: 23 NOVEMBER 1963

DISTR: GOMMO SECRET rucCpaasea>
CHRONO (DUMMY) CLASSIFICATION Silvia DURAN P-

KOSTIKOV P=

prion Tnivince ‘NUMBER
OPERATIONAL | eriay
PRK IMMEDIATE

i

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

tO mMepiaTze piRN! ee
. RYBAT LIENVOY a -
DUP cv 60-7 8
REF; DIR 84886 D

1, FOLLOWING FULL TRANSCHIPTS AVAILABLE,
2. ON 28 SEPTEMBER 1963 LIENVOY REPORTED FOL: "ENTRADA
“MF DEL CONSULADO DEL CUBA QUIEN DICE QUE ALLI EN SU CONSULADO *

; ESTA UN NORTEAMERICANO QUE ESTUVO ALLIEN LA ae ADA
sie? HABLA

RUSA, ‘UD QUE ESPERE UN MOMENTO, MF, nas we

INGLES CON ALGUNA PERSO!
LA PUSIERON TELEFON!

1412 99. SILVIA LE DICE SOBRE EL CIUDADANO NORTEAMERICANO Y¥

4008 NTA EN ESPANOL QUE
eer
ClO Y LO APUNTA QUE ES EL

QUE LES VA A HABLAR, HF HABLA RUSO. HD LE HABLA EN INGLES,"
SILVIA DURAN ASKS NORTHAMERICAN "DO YOU SPEAK RUSSIAN?" THEN
“WHY DONT YOU TALK TO HIM?" NORTHAMERICAN TAKES PHONE AND
SAYS IN BROKEN RUSSIAN "I WAS IN YOUR EMBASSY AND SPOKE TO YOUR :
CONSUL,"" MAN IN SOV EMB "JUST A MINUTE," MAN IN SOV EMB ASKS .

NORTHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAT DOES HE WANT? NORTHAMERICAN:

iG OFFICERS.

"2X coop!

- RE’
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

0000206

| REPRODMETOR
' PROWIBIMED =


wy

© REPRODUCTIO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE nae PROMIBITED ce
PAGE 2, FILE:

Twiriacs | Oras Nowpen

a

: DEFERRED | PRIORITY
: P)OPERATIONAL | waracs |
I ROUTINE IMMEDIATE:
fo INFO, 1
oe ges

“PLEASE SPEAK RUSSIAN", SOVIET: "WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT?"
NORTHAMERICAN: "I WAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY
TOOK MY ADDRESS," SOVIET: "I WMK KNOW THAT." NORTHAMERICAN:
"I DID NOT KNOW IT THEN, I WENT TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY TO ASK

.THEM FOR MY ADDRESS. BECAUSE THEY HAVE IT." SOVIET: . "WHY

_ DONT YOU COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WITH US, IT IS NOT

FAR FROM. THE CUBAN EMBASSY,""  NORTHAMERL 2
rh wie nay aye
THERE RIGHT AWAY." DOUGLAS J, FEMNGE SuRED NORTHAMERICAN
ate et
> SPOKE TERRIBLE HARD} RHC SLE RUSSIAN, -
ae QgsaxE)

3. ON ONE OCTOB: 1963 AT 1045 HOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET
EMB AND SAID "HELLO THIS IS LEE OSWALD SPEAKING, I WAS AT YOUR
PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID
THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON SO I WANTED TO FIND
OUT IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING NEW? BUT IDONT REMEMBER THE NAME
OF THAT CONSUL," SOVIET (EMBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOV): "KOSTIKOV:
HE IS DARK," MO: "YES, MY NAME IS OSWALD," SOVIET: "JUST A tad

MINUTE I'LL FIND OUT. TEBORkOGA¥ Ada RicEREY HAVEN'T RECEIVED

SECRET.
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER, CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

0300207

REPRODUCTION ;

"PROMBITED”



~

‘REPRODUCTION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pare: PROHIBITED

: Es
Page 3, "
age 3,

| TRITIAUS NUMBER

pererren | | PRIORITY |

ee ATIONAL | wnriacs |

_OSWALD IS IDENTICAL WITH PERSON PARA ONE SPEAKING BROKEN

RUSSIAN WHO CALLED FROM CUBAN EMBASSY 28 SEPTEMRERITO SOVIET
: Ve

ROUTINE MEDIATE |
INFO. cme A OL L

ANYTHING YET, MO: "HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?" SOVIET: "YES
THEY SAY THAT A REQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT BUT NOTHING HAS
BEEN RECEIVED AS YET." MO: "AND WHAT..7" SOVIET HANGS UP,

4, DOUGLAS I, FEINGLASS WHO DID TRANSCRIPTIONS SAYS

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENREMANG OFFICER CLASSE EREGN RELEASING@EFICER
OUTGOING:

0000208



13-00000

DOC, MICRO. SEI SECRET
TO. + DIRECTOR OEC4 1974
FROM + yexico city L_MICROFILMED C3 copy;

ACTION’ c/w 5.(MR. WHITTEN, WH MR. BAGLEY, SR AND NIGHT SECURITY OFFICE NOTIFIED AND
. COPY SLOTTED AT:/1700 23 NOV WB)

‘NFO + pel, 0/oCl, DDP, ADDP, L/E1) C/Fl 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/OS 2, VR

SECRET 2329452

7 —
IMMEDIATE DIR-CITE MEXI 7028
oat “ 23 hove 67 87
REF MEXI 7025 (7 7 / 9S )* Se A
1 \
1. COS HAD URGENT CaLL TO SEE LITeNSoR 23 Nov.

1
2. COS THOUGHT VOULD BE FoR LITENSOR EXPRESSION CONDOLENCE.

OVER LOSS OF PRES KENNEDY BUT DEVELOPED
Bs
THAT LIENVOY aHad.

MADE ON 28 SEPTEMBER.

1
3. BELIEVE FACT THAT LITENSOR AWARE OF
SECRE Te oe

r Cahid |
eA ye

CS Comment: *Forwardedgiview of LIENVOY (2), transcripts.

LL_TO SOVIET EMBASSY OF

\GONTACT CFROM OUR

MPORTANT.

RECORDS OFF 1.2it STAMP

a

The followt
authorized:

NI3E NOILVoLISSIO

$761 yay.9 T° 9240nGNoo|

a
Yote:

fy _ OS Boppy,
D QeO-S=Y4 t ;
an -5
Decinet enr =5A ts Maes
[m7 ACT} dor FOIA Review on al
i SECRET
t

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

/ 5
i i ao :
j i

- REPREBUCTION
PROMIBITED



13-00000

REPROOUCTION
PROWISITED

(1 SECRET

(UNCLASSIFIED [INTERNAL Ol c(-*eNTIAL
] ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBIECT. (Opens

7am a -
ACTION COPY ae Fd
if
TO: (Officer designation, room number, ond DATE ~ : 23-1083
building) OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number eoch comment to show from whom
| eras | suetveren cos net

1

SCOTT

WHITE

Eve 610 “iting (0 SECRET

REP amet
Pao OHIBITED

INTERN
CO conripentiaL (Rai,

0000219

(2. UNCLASSIFIED


13-00000

( ner

RIG.

“ Fa
aT CLASSIFIED M Ht)
xT ESSAGE DATE: uu toot
vm Canon mu

CHRONO (DUMMY) eS aeATION FTFENSOR Pp

+ [Prod
H Daria : me
i DEFERRED | | _ prionity ere “une
2 anaes | “| OPERATIONA iiTIALS
# ROUTINE
: 7
10 IMMEDIATE DIR INFO. cle vex —, 74

KAPOK

REF: MEXI-7025

1, COS HAD URGENT CALL TO SEE LITENSOR 23 NOV.
2. COS THOUGHT WOULD BE FOR LITENSOR EXPRESSION
‘CONDOLENCE OVER LOSS OF PRES KENNEDY BUT DEVELOPED THAT
_ LIENVOY 2 HAD LOCATED CALL TO SOVIET EMBASSY on caseiyswaro
MADE ON 28 SEPTEMBER, * ee

AN
3. BELIEVE FACT THAT \T LLpANSy Atak OF THIS CONTACT

(FROM OUR JOINT OPERARION AND PASSED DATA TO COS IS IMPORTANT,

END OF MSG

6

COORDINATING OFFICERS

: SECRET w.C.c,
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

i
: v
{

REPROBUCTION |
PROIED = a



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED

hg 5 oon

pec4 194
MICROFILMED

a + DIRECTOR
ROM: © MEXICO CI
ACTON: c/s 5. (VR WHITTEN, WH AND OS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1715.23 NOV we)

NFO + pct, D/oCt, DOP, Abop, C/C1, c/Ft Z, C/sR 5, C/SAS 5, 0/0S:2,- yr
; "F . RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

SECRET 232048;

IMMEDIATE DIR(CITE MEXI “7929 —o —

Ras _ - no ne one COPS jalirsiws7 190

a 5
REF Ae DIR 84888 * —
—e_——— Wote: If dertruction, cite

Be MEXt_ 7025 (i L/D) we Feasors and coordinate y

if appropriate. +?
te. SAV PHOTOS OF LEE OSWALD ON TELEVISION NIGHT, 20F 22. eA IT

vious PHOTOS SENT TO DALLAS WERE NOT pee BE he om
te

DALLAS. DATES ARE AS GIVEN ON PHQTUS. ay pee : —

2 MEXI STATION REVIEWING igharedce & PHOTOS PERSONS ENTERING
'DVIET AND CUBAN EMBASSIES. . e
_ 3. MEXI SUGGESTING TO LITEAPO 2 THAT SILVIA DURAN WHO
“NEXICAN EMPLOYEE AT CUBAN. EMBASSY AND WHO PUT LEE OSWALD ON
TELEPHONE FROM CUBAN EMBASSY TO TALK TO SOVIET Enaassy ON 28 SEPT

BE ARRESTED IMMEDIATELY AND HELD INCOMMUNTCADO ‘UNTIL SHE GIVES
ALL DETAILS OF OSWALD KNOWN TO HER. (SEE REF B)
ae LITEMPO 2 CAN SAY D.F.S, COVERAGE REVEALED CALL TO HIM IF HE

FECA) 5
NEEDS TO EXPALIN. conpuerzo.om 18 APR W974

[aire acer)

CS Comments: *Photos sent from Mexico City were not those © swatd
#4Forwarded a review of LIENVOY (2) transcripts.

D 2g - 2. = Sad
Document Ness, ILO. &3 vary, «

Jor FOIA Review on APR 1976 SECRET

. REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED:

- REPRODUCTION rot
:



13-00000

seri

BOS TIERS.
pec 4 19%
MICROFILMED.

TO + DIRECTOR

£3 COPY;

ACTION: —¢/WH 5(WH AND OS NOTIFIED COPY SLOTTED 1930 23 NOV BP)
INFO + DCI, D/oct, DOP, ADDP/Z/cl, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, cake Os 2 VR
XK

The folloutne entian is
SECRET 2322462

Sen ae
tor83 67 25
ea ae nerese

SECT aru OF Uatt CPS
a Oe Wotet IE destietion, ete >
REF weKI 1028 Go 67/ rr Teasons and coordinate

Af appropriate.

FROM. » MEXICO CI

IMMEDIATE DIR C

Le “FoLL ADDITIONAL CALLS LIENVOY PROBABLY F REPEAT PROBABLY OSWALD;
FOL ABBREVIATIONS USED: MF-WOMAN OUTSINE; HF-MAN OUTSIDE;
_ MD-WOMAN INSIDE; HD-MAN INSIDE. .

Ae ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT “ENTRADA. HOMBRE
LLAMANDO DICE QUE ES NECESARIO SACER UNA VISA PARA IR A ODESA.
HOMBRE DENTRO: QUE LLANE AL 15 68 55 Y QUE PIDA AL CONSUL. HOBRE
FUERA: PIDE LA DIRECCION.’ HOMBRE DENTRO: SE LA PROPORGEOQNA.”

AED eureapn.
WF DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA DICE QUE ESTA BSsudiomo AMERICANO
QUE FUE A SOLICITAR UNA VISA PAR SA

B. ON. 27 SEPTEMBER 635 CALL TO SOV CONSULATI

RANSITO PORQUE VA PARA

* Yo money viOs KORZEEZ TAS Jo Ladenrenya

vein
LA URSS Y ENTONCES cuengee ra ui HABIA HABLADO PORQUE 5

ka ‘

ELLA LO MANDO CON ELLOS ‘A ENBAJADA RUSA DICIENDOLE QUE SI ELLOS J: |
a

LE HACIAN O ACEPTABAN LA VISA QUE ENTONCES ELLOS LOS CUSANOS TAMBIEN” UPS

SE LA DABAN SIN MAS TRAMITES NADAMAS AVISANDO A ENIGRACION EN CUBA Y

QUIERE SABER CON QUIEN HABLO PORQUE EL DICE QUE NO SABE TAMPOCO CON

QUE PERSONS Y QUE LE DIJERON QUE SI QUE NO TENIA PROBLEMA, HD
Ditoz-Sa¥/ 3 £9 ool eae)

Ed 2g)

REPRODUCTION, BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

. 00002143

REPRODUCTION
PROUD



13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

PRODUCTION
LE PIDE ESPERE UN WOHENTO, UF IS SILVIA DURAN DEL CONSUL

- CUBA Y EXPLICA LO MISNO A OTRO HD. ESTE LE DICE QUE  PROFIBITED
TELEFONO Y SU NOMBRE PARA QUE DESPUES LE LLAMEN. SILVIA SE LO
PROPORCIONA ASI CONO EL TELEFONO 11 28 47, Y QUE APROVECHA CONO GASa

PERSONAL DE QUE ELLA SE CAMBIO DE DOMICILIO Y NO HA PODIDO AVISAR
: PARA QUE LE ENVIEN,EL BOLETIN Y QUE AHORA SE LA PUEDE DAR. HD

LE PIDE QUE LLAME A KOURKHARENKO PARA QUE LE DE SU CAMBIO Y PIDE

LE DE EL NOMBRE DE LA CONSEJERO O AGREGADO CULTURAL. SILVIA DICE

QUE SE LLAMA TERESA PROENZA Y LE LLAMAN. AL 14 13 26. HD QUE GRACIAS.”
C. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT 1626 HRS OUT CALL FROM SOV EMB TO !

11 28 47: "HD PREGUNTA A SILVIA QUE SI HA IDO ALLI ESE AMERICANO.

SILVIA QUE SI QUE ALLI ESTA. HD QUE SEGUN LAS CARTAS QUE LES oe ah

OM ok

* DEL CONSULADO EN WASHINGTON EL QUIERE IR A LA URSS PARA ALLA mucHo |
“TIEMPO CON SU ESPOSA QUE ES RUSA, PERO TODAVIA NO SE HA RECIBIDO E
LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON RESPECTO A SU PROBLENA, PERO ESO sEGUN!

crvaan levi

LOS TRAMITES OCUPAN UNOS CUATRO 0 CINCO MESES PERC SIN TENER ESE

3 EDE.

EGUN

PERMISO DE LA Rss DEBEN DE PREGUNATAR Y MAS BIEN NO SE.

DESPACHAR AQUI EL VISADO SIN PREGUNTARLE A wasHIN@TOA
ESTE SENOR LE MOSTRO UNA CARTA EN QUE ssl reionr'e DE UNA ORGAN IZAC TOR
EN FAVOR DE CUBA Y HA DICHO sue aifag, Cie aos NO PUEDEN ©

DARLE EL VISADO SIN EL vista, URUST Y AHORA HD NO SABE QUE HACER

CON EL, PORQUE DEBEN DE ESPERAR LA CONTFSTAGION DE WASHINGTON.

SILVIA QUE ELLOS TAMBIEN, PORQUE EL PROBLEMA DE EL, ES ‘QUE EL NO

CONOCE A NADIE EN CUBA Y ENTONCES SI ES ASI ES MUY DIFICIL QUE

LE DEN La VISA, PORQUE. EL PENSABA TRAMITAR SU VISA, PORQUE COMO

EL YA. SABIA QUE SE IBA A TARDAR MUCHO EN ESPERAR EL VISADO. RUSO i
wo
> s

i: O200244

REPRODUCTION = |
PROUSITED ——



13-00000

CLASBITIED: MESSAG:

— ts
EN. CUBA Y YA DE ALLA IRSE A La UNGS. 5 3a pines _
ESPOSA ESTA AHORITA EN WASHINGTON FERU VA A RECIBIR AHO.

VISADO O EL PERMISO DE LA URSS PARA REGRESAR A Li PATRIA,-ELLA VA

A RECIBIR SU VISADO EN WASHINGTON PERO TENIENDO ESE VISADO ELLA
PODRIAN COMUNICARLE A CUALQUIER LUGAR ESE PERM 1SO POR EJEMPLO ASUT
: O EN CUALQUIER OTR@ PARTE LO PUEDE RECIBIR, PERO AllORITA NO LAS
TIENEN. SILVIA QUE CLARO Y QUE TAMPOCO SE LE PUEDE DAR ‘UNA CARTA
+ PORQUE NO SABEN SI SU VISA SERA APROVADA. HD QUE ELLOS SOLO DARAY ho
EL VISADO SEGUN LAS INGICACIONES. SILVIA QUE ENTONCES RSO PONDRA
EN SU PLANILLA. HD aug TAMPOCO NO SE LE CONOCE Y QUE PERDONE™
POR LA MOLESTIA. stvga QUE NO HAY CUIDADO Y QUE MUCHAS GRACIAS.”
D. ON 1 OCT 63 caLt, AT 1631 HRS TO SOV MIL ATT IN BROKEN RUSSIAN:
" "HELLO. I WAS AT YOUR’ PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND I TALKED TO YOUR
“CONSUL. THEY SAID THAT THEY"D SEND A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON
AND I WANTED TO ASK You IF THERE IS ANYTHING NEW?” SOVIET:
"I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU Td CALL ANOTHER PHONE NUNBER.” MAN OURGIDE:

"PLEASE. * SOVIET: “PLEASE, WRITE IT DOWN 15 6 55 AND -

consul.” MAN OUTSIDE: “THANK YOU.” SAR vPuEnsEe
ag

ie MAN OUTSIDE: SPEAKS

E. on 3 OCTOBER 63 CALL a

IN BROKEN SPANISH THEN IN aa) eae SOVIET. “HELLO. VISA FOR
RUSSIA.” SOVIET: “CALL ON THE OTHER PHONE.” MAN OUTSIDE:

"I'M LOOKING FOR A VISA TO GO TO RUSSIA.” SOVIET: “PLEASE, CALL
ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CONSUL.” MAN OUTSIDE: "OH, THE CONSUL."
SOVIET: "THAT'S RIGHT, 15 60 55.” MAN. OUTSIDE: "ONE MONENT PLEASE,
I'LL HAVE TO GET A PENCIL TO. WRITE THE NUMBER DOWN. THEY ISSUE

=e Jere 2GIAyg

PROWIBITED otha


13-00000

- (eae

. [yep o Sex RERODUCTION
be vies ter ari vat ae oo eo elARAEBATED

I DON’T KNOW ABOUT THIS BUSINESS. PLEASECALL THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL.

GLASSIFIED MESSAGE

AND ASK YOUR QUESTION,” MAN OUTSIDE: ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE
TELEPHONE AGAIN. SOVIET: GIVES THE NUMBER TO HIM AND TELLS HIN

TO ASK FOR THE CONSUL OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO. MAN OUTSIDE:
“THANKS. ” .

SECRET

CS Cormment: *Forwarded a review of LIENVOY (1) transe

REPROBUCTION |
PROWIBITED =



13-00000

‘REPRODUCTION
PROMIEITED

CO unaassine = en (1 conFIC iTraL (1 SECRET
a ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

* WHITE

rom 610 “teriene"* 7] SECRET CONFIDENTIAL aes UNCLASSIFIED
USE OHLY

0200217
“oO

2g

EPRODUCTION
PRORIBITED

a =


13-00000

im

we eeu REPRODUCTION

exts CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pares BRORIBHTED
DISTR : FILE:

GOMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY) CBS cod

| DEFERRED | PRIORITY
7 Top oreranioNaty winics 7
\ routine | |xkChawebiare |

INFO. . = Cl :
10 IMMEDIATE DIR DUP OF MEX] FREER ———

RYBAT ia

3-5! &

REF: MEXI 7025

1, FOL ADDITIONAL CALLS LIENVOY PROBABLY REPEAT PROBABLY

OSWALD; FOL ABBREVIATIONS USED: MF - WOMAN OUTSIDE: HF -
MAN OUTSIDE; MD. - WOMAN INSIDE; MEXX HD - MAN beSi DE Gene
a TAY ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT "ENTRADA,
HOMBRE LLAMANDO DICE QUE ES NECESARIO SACER UNA VISA PARA IR
oy

CONSUL, HOMBRE FUERA: PIDE LA pusengy HOMBRE DENTRO:
annul

ene aobey

ees

B. ON 27 sPereMBER 63 CALL TO SOV CONSULATE 1605 HRS

A ODESA, HOMBRE DENTRO: QUE LLAME AL 15 60 55 ¥.
——

SE LA PROPORCIONA,"

"ENTRADA, MF DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA DICE QUEESTA ALLI UN
CIUDADANO AMERICANO QUE FUE A SOLICITAR UNA VISA PARA CUBA |
EN TRANSITO PORQUE VA PARA LA URSS Y ENTONCES QUIERE SABER :
CON QUIEN HABIA HABLADO P@RQUE ELLA LO MANDO CON ELLOS DE

LA EMBAJADA RUSA DICIENDOLE QUE SI ELLOS LE HACIAN O ACEPTABAN

COORDINATING OFFICERS

. SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
OUTGOING.

a Z 0200218 |

oO

| REPRODUCTION | |
PROHIBITED


13-00000°

te Ls

*  REPRODUCTIOE
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: PROBL RITED

FILE:

Page 2.
DEFERRED ] priory | ™™ | ia oa
GFERATIONAL | inacr
ROUTINE |_| IMMEDIATE
TO INFO. CITE

LA VISA QUE ENTONCES ELLOS LOS CUBANOS TAMBIEN SE LA DABAN
SIN MAS TRAMITES NADAMAS AVISANDO A EMIGRACION EN CUBA Y
QUIERE SABER CON QUIEN HABLO PORQUE EL DICE QUE NO SABLE
TAMPOCO CON QUE PERSONA Y QUE LE DIJERON QUE SI QUE NO TENIA.
PROBLEMA. HD LE PIDE ESPERE UN MOMENTO. MF ES SILVIA DURAN

DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA ¥ EXPLICA LO MISMO A OTRO HD: ESTE LE

DICE QUE LE DEJE SU TELEFONO Y SU NOMBRE PARA QUE DESPUES LE

LLAMEN, SILVIA SE LO PROPORCIONA ASI COMO.BL: /FONO Il 28 47,

“4 y 5
Y QUE APROVECHA COMO COSA. RERSONAL' GUE ELLA SE CAMBIO

DE DOMICILIO Y NORE : WISAR PARA QUE LE ENVIEN EL BOLETIN

Re.
LAW ae

Y QUE AHORA SE LA EDE DAR, HD LE PIDE QUE LLAME - KOUKHARENKO
PARA QUE LE DE SU CAMBIO Y PIDE LE DE EL NOMBRE DE LA CONSEJERO
O AGREGADO CULTURAL, SILVIA DICE QUE SE LLAMA TERESA PROENZA

Y LE LLAMAN AL 14.12 26, HD QUE GRACIAS,"

C, ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT 1626 HRS OUT CALL FROM SOV

EMB TO ll 28 47: "HD PREGUNTA A SILVIA QUE SI HA IDO ALLI ESE
AMERICANO, SILVIA QUE SI QUE ALLIESTA, HD QUE SEGUN LAS CARTAS
COORDINATING OFFICERS,

SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

SS in mene

REPReDUCTIOR
PROSIBNTED | ae:



13-00000 an

_ "REPRODUCTION

Te CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pare:

asm [asso |“ PROHIBITED
Page 3. CLABEIFICATION

i “DEFERRED PRIORITY Ce WuNBER

i RouTINE | | OPERATIONAL | mints

To : INFO. cite

QUE LES MOSTRO DEL CONSULADO EN WASHINGTON EL QUIERE IR A LA
URSS PARA ALLA MUCHO TIEMPO CON SU ESPOSA GUE ES RUSAg PERO
TODAVIA NO SE HA RECIBIDO LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON RESPECTO
ASU PROBLEMA, PERO ESO SEGUN LOS TRAMITES OCUPAN UNOS CUATRO.

© CINCO MESES PERO SIN TENER ESE PERMISO DE LA URSS DEBEN DE

PREGUNATAR Y MAS. BIEN NO'SE LE PUEDE DESPACHAR AQUI EL VISADO :

SIN PREGUNTARLE A WASHINGTON PERO SEGUN ESTE SENOR LE MOSTRO

UNA CARTA EN QUE ES ‘UN MIEMBRO DE UNA ORGANIZ. EN FAVOR

he
GEDEN’DARLE EL

DE CUBA Y HA DICHO QUE ELLOS LOS CUBANOQ§:

VISADO SIN. EL VISADO RUSO ¥ WBE QUE HACER CON EL,
P@RQUE DEBEN DE makits BAJSCONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON, SILVIA
QUE ELLOS TAMBIEN, p Forque EL PROBLEMA DE EL, ES QUE EL NO
CONOCE A NADIE EN CUBA Y ENTONCES SI ES ASI ES MUY DIFICIL QUE

LE DEN LA VISA, PORQUE EL PENSABA TRAMITAR SU VISA, PORQUE
COMO EL YA SABIA QUE SE IBA A TARDAR MUCHO EN ESPERAR EL VISALO

RUSO EN CUBA Y YA'DE ALLA IRSE A LA URSS, -HD QUE LA COSA ES QUE

SI. SU ESPOSA ESTA AHORITA EN WASHINGTON PERO VA A RECIBIR AHORITA D
COORDINATING OFFICERS:

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER cast GariOn RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

eet : 0000220

REPRODUCTION
PROKIBITED — a


13-00000

Re fia)

‘ “ RePRODUCTION
_ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: PROWE IRITED
ome : FILE:
_ Page 4. CLASSIFICATION

TaTTACe T Bre.

NUMBER

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

PRIORITY
Siena

WaITALS |

rer
Lie} INFO. CITE Ie

“oN

EL VISADO O EL PERMISO DE LA URSS PARA REGRESAR A LA PATRIA,

ELLA VA A RECIBIR SU VISADO EN WASHINGTON PERO TENIENDO ESE ¥
VISADO ELLA PODRIAN COMUNICARLE A Gualourer LUGAR ESE PERMISO a
POR EJEMPLO AQUI O EN CUALQUIER OTRA PARTE LO PUEDE RECIBIR, - .
5 PERO on NO os TIENEN. SILVIA QUE CLARO Y QuE Apes) SE
econ aan :
LE PUEDE DAR UNA.CARTA PORQUE NO SABEN. SI SU VISA SERA APROVADAY + _

HD QUE Lcd SOLO DARAN EL VISADO SEGUN LAS INDIGAGIONES.

SILVIA QUE ENTONCES ESO PONDRA EN su eae AD UE TAMPOCO

SE LE PUEDE DAR NINGUNA CARTA, sae pad IDACION PORQUE NO

ee

SE LE CONOCE Y QUE PE! OR LA MOLESTIA, SILVIA QUE NO HAY ©

. ine
CUIDADO Y QUE MUCHAS GRACIAS, "" Py pare 4
"1
D, ON 1 OCT 63 CALL AT 1031 Hi TO SOV IL ATT IN BROKEN!

RUSSIAN: "HELLO.«~I WAS AT YOUR PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND I TALKED

TO YOUR CONSUL. THEY SAID THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO

WASHINGTON AND I WANTED TO ASK YOU IF THERE IS ANYTHING NEW?"

SOVIET; "I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU TO CALL ANOTHER PHONE NUMBER." —
5 i
MAN OUTSIDE: "PLEASE." SOVIET: "PLEASE WRITE IT DOWN 15 60 55 i
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING:

0300221 J

4

i



13-00000

Hunt

_ '  REPRODUCTIO
ote | curse vesset ove PROMIBITED

DISTR: FILE:

Page 5,

Taiviata | OTe. NUMBER

H DEFERRED PRIORITY
: OPERATIONAL | wirtacs
H ae IMMEDIATE

INFO. CITE
Rovner
AND ASK FOR A CONSUL," MAN OUTSIDE: "THANK YOU," SOVIET:

"PLEASE,"
E, ON 3OCTOBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT: MAN OurTsIDE:
SPEAKS IN BROKEN SPANISH THEN IN ENGLISH TO SOVIET. "HELLO.

VISA FOR RUSSIA." SOVIET: "CALL ON THE OTHER PHONE." MAN_

OUTSIDE: "I'M LOOKING FOR A VISA TO GO TO RUSSIA." SOVIET:

"PLEASE, CALL ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CONSUL." MAN-OYTSIDE:

“OH, THE CONSUL," SOVIET: "THAT'S RIGHT, 15(60:55. MaNOursipe:
“aN
“ONE MOMENT PLEASE, ILL HAVESTO CH PENCIL TO WRITE THE

NUMBER DOWN, THEY issGE\RAE VIGA THERE?" SOVIET: "THAT

DEPENDS ON YOUR CONVERSATION, I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THIS BUSINESS,
PLEASE CALL THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL AND ASK YOUR QUESTION,"
MAN OUTSIDE: ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE TELEPHONE AGAIN, SOVIET:
GIVES THE NUMBER TO HIM AND TELLS HIM TO ASK FOR THE CONSUL

OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO. MAN OUTSIDE: "THANKS."

END OF MSG
COORD:NATING OFFICERS
ha SECRET WCC
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
: eo: OUTGOINS
SC ch

-vertiaemerees ies oe ae aor

0200222

| REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED a



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
~~ PROUIBITED

’
FED msssace( \

;TO + DIRECTOR \ ee 4 1874
FROM 4 MEXICO CITY £3 fopy \ ae

! et) | MICROFILME!
1 ACTION: C/SR 5(MR BAGLEY SR WH AND OS NOTLFIED AND comfSu. SITs 15.

nro + DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADCP, C/CI, C/ci/ors, c/FI, Chey, orbs UrFICER STAMP

iv. The hollowing-action is
BUtHOFIZET? ae are aa ~

Signed: * ———

R.0. #1 - Unit CZ 7S

SEC RE T 2322552

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXL 7034

-SSEEP REDWOOD LCINPROVE

af
i
is a8
| TREF__DIR 87837 y hon) cantinsage gE 3 :
- 2 3
1. MORNING 22 NOV LIENVOY REPORTING SOVENB NORMS a 8 3
| 2g iy 2}2
| 2, at 1250 HRS 22 NOV CUBAN CONSUL ALFREDO WIRABAL: 2 3
| ee ak .. In} | >a
| TO SPEAX WITH SUSPECT KGB PAVEL AN TOROS Hg YATSKOV. = LOTTER IS) | 32
1 = - Pea eTeTe Is} |
|. APPARENTLY, UNAVAILABLE AND KOSTE) Wane ON LINE WITH Fou! | a |
i i mu . < sat
| CONVERSATION ENSUING IN PRVILIAR FoR. “TU”: pnp SB hee
| > KOS: FORGIVE ME FOR ARRIVING LATE. i? a8 .
1 Qo 32
i MIR: DID YOU RECOVER THE SUITCASE? | > 8
i 2
: cobs YE eZ
i Kost YES. = So
i MIR: THEN IT WAS ARRIVING ON THE OTHER TRIP. Y g 2™
H : : = .
i Kos: YES, a ; 3
: I CALLED TO TELL YOU THE FOLLOWING, THAT REGARDING Bly)
e
THaT SATTER THAT WE HAD TALKED ABOUT, TO SEE IF WE vouLD $ a i
i IN CHAPULTEPEG Paik BECAUSE NY WIFE IS PREPARING SOxE Sean Tc e
2Ol-2AIT AG F |
UT PVE JUST SADE PLANS FOs A\ a Type |

DAY, SQ PLEASE FORGIVE NE FO

73 BRR

: ~~ 9200223"

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED



13-00000

| REPRODUCTION
Z PROHIBITED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO GO YITH YOU. (AT THIS POLNT KosTisis

AS AZCUE, AND MIR CORRECTS Hit.
; AZCUE LOPEZ, FORMER CUBAN CONSUL).

KOS: HAVE YOU ALREADY TALKED W. (KGB OLEG

NECHIPORENKO?
MIR: WD LIKE TO TALK WITH PAVEL YATSKOV.
KOS: WAIT A MINUTE, HELL COME Now.

i MIR: IF HE’S SUSY I°LL CALL HIM LATER, BUT I°LL BE A’
i

'] FOR THE NEXT HALF HOUR AT TEL NO 11 28. 47.

%

yo KOS: OK.
5S. CONTINUANCE LIENVOY SOVEMB REPORTING AFTERNOCY 22

CABLED SEPARATELY.
SECRET

6000224

REPRODUCTION
‘PROGIBITED



13-0900 a ra

Lies
t

RODUCTION

RIG: RL LJ EASBY REPRODUC I
* CLASSIFIED MESSAGE are: 4 0
FED
STR C) . SECRET FY imi)
cous | eres, | eee

CHRONO (DUMMY)

~

A pererreo [xk priory | ™™* | o saa
ye | OPERATIONAL |“ iiniacs “|
H ROUTINE | IMMEDIATE
i "INFO, rb) oe CITE Tus
PRITY DIR : DON OV MEXI ~yoneea————
KAPOK S 2 12
feo ee -2?%4
ad 1, COMPLETE REGHEGK PHOTOS ALL VISITORS TO CUBAN EMB

AUGUST THRU FIRST HALF NOV AGAINST GOOD PRESS PHOTOS SHOWS
NO EVIDENCE OSWALD VISIT. SIMILAR BLANK AGAINST ALL SOVEMB

PHOTOS FROMLSEPT. NOTE ONLY VISIT WE KNOW HE MADE WAS CUBAN.

EMBASSY 28 SEPT, SATURDAY ON WHICH EMB CLOSED AND WE HAVE

NOT HAD COVERAGE/ IN FUTURE WILL REQUIRE AT LEAST.HALF DAY
A : : aN)

PHOTO COVERAGE BOTH SOV AND CUBAN EMBASSIE:

2.° CHECK MANIFESTS ALL ARRIVING MEXI CENTRAL
AIRPORT FROM U.S. Fats Saw,

he
VARIANT HIS NAME. PASSING THIS INFO GOM ASKING THEY CHECK

WELD ARRIVAL UNDER ANY LIKELY

BORDER ainpérs FROM WHICH OSWALD MIGHT HAVE FLOWN MEXICO
CITY, WE DO NOT GET MANIFESTS THESE DOMESTIC FLIGHTS,

END OF MSG

COORDINATING OFFICERS

auTHEn GHG OFFICER cLaSsiEXTION RELEASING OSFISER
OUTGOING

2 |
~ PROGIBITED



13-00000

¢
1 INDEX
* GNO"INDEX
DAE H te mentee CU FILE IN CS FILE NO.
“to tyextco cry Cs CuRy
FROM: DIRECTOR L
5. 1 3 =

: is Wes CULE SEC Toereerco
CONF: . ' a
-- “ Q ; ROUTINE
Ho: pcr, O/OCI, DOP, ADDP, Cl, C1/OPS, FI, SR 7, SAS 8, OS 2, VR 5
4
1O - DaMRDIATS MEXE oy INFO —_ : crepe 9 4929

__

an youn ‘enum, AND ALSO HAVE

“Se ADVISE.
GF MESRAGE

(CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
EADAMPDET CL bY_2LaA2S |

Dinoo-s-¥ | POA oe MR. Oy DEFY

SEAR

“stam.

COORDINATING OFFICERS

}
4
i
i
i

te
i
}
+

REPRODUCTION | :
PROKIBTED |



13-00000

PROMIBITED

Rpg nee ) . . eo

pista:
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION: DATE:

24 Nov 63
— ae
§ EC ReFibn H

> TNITIALS CTS > INCOMING NUMBER
t] | cererreo PRIORITY > :
4 = 7 QDY/2272 :
Ef [nouns OPERATIONAL [RATS AIZZAE | gaye es
To INFO CITE

IMMEDIATE MEXt —pieteee—

LIENVOY a

1. AFTER ANALYZING ALL. THE TRAFFIC AND READING THE staTENEith Of
SILVIA DURAN, ONE IMPORTANT QUESTION STILL PUZZLES. US~ | .WHEN LEE
OSWALD WAS IN MEXICO CITY IN LATE SEPIBEER fpPtEaRLY OCTOBER TO
GET A SOVIET’VISA AND A conan aia 'vISh, DID HE WANT TO TRAVEL
TO CUBA RIGHT AWAY, ALONE, oR ‘WAVE HIS WIFE JOIN HIM THERE AND

THEN LEAVE FOR CUBA, OR DID HE PLAN TO RETURN TO THE STATES FIRST

‘REPRODUCTION

AND THEN LEAVE LATERe ALTHOUGH IT APPEARS THAT HE WAS THEN THINKING
ONLY ABOUT A PEACEFUL CHANGE OF RESIDENCE TO THE SOVIET UNION,

IT IS ALSO POSSIBLE THAT HE WAS GETTING DOCUMENTED TO MAKE A QUICK
ESCAPE AFTER ASSASSINATING THE PRESIDENT.

2. PLEASE RESTUDY YOUR LIENVOY MATERIAL AND GIVE US YOUR OPINION,
AND ALSO HAVE MEXICANS QUESTION SILVIA DURAN VERY yal a on

THIS POINT. ADVISE. Denki
ea
fv a?

0000227

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED



13000002: .. = ..si: - ec temBet

, "REPRODUCTION
PROB

UR3 1304 . (#4)

ORS: R.L,EASBY

: CLASSIFIED MESSAGE Ss
Te e DATE: 24 NOVEMBER 1963

DISTRz GOMMO SECRET FILE: P-7976
CHRONO (DUMMY) B-8593_)

[_pereaneo | | prionny
OPERATIONA| |
| | ROUTINE LL IMMEDIATE

NUMBER

aes

TO IMMEDIATE.DIR INFO. a ONE eset WLLL of i
RYBAT Our aa
DA BLS
DIR: A, MEXI 7046 SP ad

B. DIR 84920

1, ADDITIONS OR AMENDMENTS REF A: i

B. SINCE SHE ‘D NOT ONLY HUSBAND BUT OTHER

MEMBERS OF FAMILY ABOUT OSWALD VISITS AFTER SHE READ NAME.
AND SAW TV PICTURE, SHE ALTRIBUTED ARREST TO DENUNCIATION BY :
COUSIN WHOM DOES NOT LIKE. THUS SOURCE GOM KNOWLEDGE NOT
REVEALED TO HER,
C, DOES NOT KNOW WHERE. OSWLAD STAYED IN MEXI.
D. PASSPORT OSWALD SHOWED HER WAS STILL VALID FOR
USSR, HE TOLD HER WISHED RETURN THERE PERMANENTLY WITH WIFE.
E,’ DURAN HAD IMPRESSION OSWALD HAD OR BELIEVED HE
; HAD MADE ARRANGEMENTS IN WASHINGTON WHEREBY INSTRUCTIONS

WCULD BE SENT SOVEMB MEX, SQASSUE-SQX, ENTRY VISA IN MANNER

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

=Q00UZ35™

CUTGOINS.

REPRODUCTION
PRORATED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION

RR 1304 . : ( “4 |

= \
ORG. - i
ete CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pate: |
DISTR FILE: 4

Page 2.

ry

DEFERRED PRIORITY

— OPERATIONA

| | roumne IMMEDIATE,

o INFO, cite eh Ft
a haan

BY WHICH WOULD NOT HIMSELF HAVE TO VISIT SOVEMB. FAILURE HIS

REAL OR IMAGINED INSTRUCTIONS WORK SMOOTHLY CAUSED HIM

BECOME RUDE TO SOVIETS. (COMMENT: PARA IC OF MEXI 7933 7
PARTIALLY BEARS THIS OUT BUT STATION DETECTS NO SMR OOENESS :

IN OSWALDS TALKS WITH SOVS. FURTHER DETAILS ‘DURAN INTERROGATION

2 MAY REVEAL OSWALD BECAME ABNSIVE: HIN casa EMB AS RESULT HIS

FRUSTRATION BY SOVS.) BA ay

F, HER IMPRESSION HE SIMPLY "COMRADE" WHO COULD

NOT LIVE COMFORTABLY UNDER RIGORS OF CAPITALISM AND WISHED *
RETURN TO SPIRITUAL HOME IN USSR, ._e

G. DURAN KNOWS NOT WHETHER HE GOT USSR VISA OR CUBAN
TRANSIT VISA BUT IF HE DID SHE HAD NO PART INIT. £
- H, IF OSWALD TALKED ANYONE ELSE IN CUBAN EMBASSY

SHE UNAWARE,

2. REF DIR 84916 (IN 6687). ECHEVERRIA AWARE ODYOKE CONCERN
RE LEAK AND HAS WARNED HER ABOUT TALKING, BUT FEELS AT LEAST

FACT OF ARREST MAY WELL BE LEAKED BY OTHER RELATIVES PICKED
COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET .
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER, CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTSOINS 0200229

REPRODUCTION
‘PRORISITED


13-00000

“REPRODUCTION
PROIBITED

ey Be , . -( bal |
: Se . |

|

ORIG: |
Xt: CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: i

DISTR: SECRET FILE: I
Page 3. CLASSIFICATION ; o

NUMBER

iarmiats | Fa.

|_|__ priority

| OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

INITIALS,

ROUTINE

RohaeR

F

To INFO, CITE |
UP SAME TIME. COS WILL CONTINUE PUSH NEED FOR SECRECY WITH !
|

ECHEVERRIA, DURAN AND HUSBAND WILL BE RELEASED BUT KEPT

UNDER CLOSE SURVEILLANCE,

3. RE REF B, WITH MEXI 7933 HQ HAS FULL TRaNSCHEts ALL
mk Ne

PERTINENT CALLS. REGRET COMPLETE BEQHECK'SHOWS TAPES FOR
SrARIONWEELING THAT ABOVE IS
F B BUT WILL REQUEST REINTERROGATION :

i:
DURAN IF HQ STILL DESIRES, a

} THIS PERIOD ALREADY ERASED,

ra)
BEST ANSWER OBTAINABERD

END OF MSG
i
i
. 0000230
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET W,.C.C.
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
CUTSOING

REPRODUCTION
PROGGITED



CLASSIFIED | s MESSA GE

( }

{

olay
X
tr » DIRECTOR

Hom ES Lapp

NIN
vin

MEXICO CITY.

ACTION: OPIS :
‘NFO + DCI, D/DCI, ODP, ADDP, C/Cl, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/oS 2,
‘ 1

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP
SECRET 24/1837%

IMMEDLATE DIR CITE [sit nasa yasa

Cael IMMEDIATE. Re cee

rer wext 7046 C/N 67-7 D* Ro. fl —uats CLC?S.
.

“pir 84920 ** Wote: If destruct
reasons and coordinate
1 A: if appropriate.

“HAVING PARTY. ALL TAKEN TO JAIL.

'B. SINCE SHE HAD. TOLD NOT ONLY HUSBAND BUT OTHER MEMBERS OF FAMILY
ssout}oswatp VISITS AFTER SHE READ NAME AND SAW TV PICTURE, SHE ATTRIBUTED
ARREST TO DENUNCIATION BY COUSIN WHOM DOES NOT LIXE. THUS Sc GO
KNOWLEDGE NOT REVEALED TO HER. Document Number

APR 1976

Ws
C. DOES NOT KNOW WHERE OSWALD STAYED In, ne as FOIA ‘Review on
D. PASSPORT OSWALD SHOWED 0 Hews SENSVat ALID FOR USSR. HE TOLD

HER WISHED RETURN THERE P| eye TH WIFE. ole 2eFaY yo

E. DURAN HAD INPRESSION OSWALD HAD OR BELIEVED HE HAD MADE. ARRANGES 2
HENTS IN WASHINGTON WHEREBY INSTRUCTIONS WOULD BE SENT Sov ENB MEXI TO 3 g
ISSUE SOV ENTRY VISA IN MANNER BY WHICH WOULD NOT HIMSELF HAVE TO visit & z
SOVEMB. FAILURE HIS REAL oR IMAGINED INSTRUCTIONS WORK SMOOTHLY CAUSED : g
HIM BECGNE RUDE TO SOVIETS. (€ COMMENT: PARA 1C OF MEXI 7933 PARTIALLY 3B a
BEARS THIS OUT BUT STATION DETECTS NO SIGNS RUDENESS IN OSWALDS TALKS 43

Daves 60 Ravi
B J O1- O74 CBoBicnON wv sah 2 Meve Passe

ION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED Copy No.

_ REPROBUCTION
"— PRORIBITED



13-00000

EPRODUCTIO
-——- PRORIGITED,

2g

TO + DIRECTOR
FROM 6
ACTION:

INFO 4

WITH SOVS. FURTHER DETAILS DURAN INTERROGATION MAY REVEAL OSWALD
BECAME ABUSIVE. IN CUBAN EAB AS RESULT HIS FRUSTRATION BY Sovs.)
.F. HER IMPRESSION HE SIMPLY "COMRADE" WHO COULD NOT LIVE couForT-

USSR.

“G. DURAN KNOWS NOT WHETHER CHE, VISA OR CUBAN TRANSIT VISA

BUT IF HE DID SHE HAD no Ba ati
ia IF OSWALD TALKED ANYONE ELSE IN Peme EMBASSY SHE UNAWARE.
a. REF DIR 84916, ECHEVERRIA AWARE opvoKE CONCERN RE LEAK AND HASs
WARNED HER ABOUT TALKING, BUT FEELS AT LEAST FACT OF ARREST MAY WELL

BE LEAKED BY OTHER RELATIVES PICKED UP SANE TIME. COS WILL CONTINUE
PUSH NEED FOR SECRECY WITH -ECHEVERRIA. DURAN AND HUSBAND WILL BE
RELEASED BUT KEPT UNDER CLOSE SURVEILLANCE

3. RE REF B. WITH MEXI 7933 HQ HAS FULL TRANSCRIPTS ALL PERTINENT
CALLS. REGRET COMPLETE RECHECK SHOWS TAPES FOR THIS PERIOD ALREADY
BLE 3
REF B BUT WILL REQUEST REINTERROGATION DURAN IF HQ vim basi
SECRET

ERASED. STATION FEELING THAT ABOVE IS BEST ANSWER OBTA.
———

G/s COMMENT: *Echeverria told COS Dusan completely coope
written statement attesting to two visits Ly Oswald,

*EDid Oswald want ‘o trave! to Geba rigtt a
his ‘wile join him’ th J chen leave for Guba, or did Fe pla: 10 ret
fiesi ard thea'leave }

REPRODUCTION (Site,

REPRODUCTION iii OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PKUHIDITED Cony

—prowieney gs

000u232



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMIRITED.

. Zz . fad
(3 UNCLASSIFIED NE oun CO con NTIAL (secret
LUNE . f
nae ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

TORIECT foment
eed Toss

Noy 25 1963

orricers comments, (umber och comment 10 show from whom
iALS) | to whom, Drow 0 line ecto celum cer each coument}

paste

0300233

oe 610 “eres” CJ secret (C) CONFIDENTIAL [] WIFNAL 7) UNCLASSIFIED

REPRODUCTION
“PROWITTED

- cen


13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PRORIBITE

(7° _duassire Messace { "

{TO + DiREcTOR

FROM + MEXICO CITY
ACTION: c/w 5 (WH COPY ISSUED 1300 25 Nov/cu)

yn. ' Be D/Ochy pop; ADOP, C/sco 4, c/ca 2, c/cA/o 2, c/ci, C/Fi 2, c/sr5, °° _
2

Dos 2, VR

SECRET 25/17;
IMMEDIATE DIR &
Ree
1. MEXI DAILY “EXCELSIOR” OF 25 NOV IMPLYING OWN INVEST I GAT IONS RAN

25 Nov 6304876 20
Fle

STORY DESCRIBING OSWALD TRIP TO MEXICO 26 SEPT THRU 3 OCT. CROSSED
- BRORDER AT LAREDO. VISITED CUBAN EMBASSY 27 SEPT AND NEXT DAY WENT TO .
.* SOVIET EMBASSY. PURPOSE ALLEGEDLY WAS TO OBTAIN VISA GO SOVIET UNION. THIS

ca
Nor OUR LEAK. CANNOT ELIMINATE GOBER NACIOM, AS. SOU! ca

ge alr aren Hava 7 ser

1963. AT RECEFT LON Bess FIDEL CASTRO IS QuoTED: "WE

2. FYI: PRESUME ace oa

ARE PREPARED TO FI He AND ANSWER IN KIND. UNITED STATES LEADERS
SHOLLD THINK (REFLECT?) THAT IF THEY ARE AIDING TERRORIST PLANS 70
ELIMINATE THE CUSAN LEADERS, THEY THEMSELVES WILL NOT BE SAFE.”

3. PARA ONE STORY WENT AWA cER OA Yap 5 _- ~

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
16 APR 1974

SECRET The followings action is
wee PR aE Remo a tnortzed: Der SENSI 7) 2 ee

a
Hy

i D 5
I t
| Document Number Sa-3s,

i af éppropriate. :
| for FOIA Reviewon  apR 1975 De 25° Ajew €3_

SECRET

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED Copy No:

0000234

hePhaoveri
SPRL TED

N



13-00000

so

EPRODUCTION
PROIBITED

ra ° .
OF uncrassirted oO pea (1 COMFY “NTIAL
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

(secret

‘SUBJECT: (Oprionel)

ow NOV.25 1963
R's COMMENTS (Number eoch comment to show from
te whem, Drow a line ccross column ofter each comment.) | =

TRIs CALL DAS cf:
HEARD By hors PF Ys
pesple.

o¢€

DuP
ai893

)
L pies"
<L penwaps wotTA -
Meares leg AT STAFF
ACETINE. — TS Wot
Pow WséCULE
[OTEAMAT IOLA Cd Lee
ARE:

Rilo
JEL
oa 000235

sear 610 “toress’* (] SECRET ©] CONFIDENTIAL =) {ATFRMAL «= 7). UNCLASSIFIED

- REPRODUCTION
-— SPROFIBITED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROWIBITED

‘Si
TO —s DIRECTOR zi 1éi
FROM 1 UMWAVE

ACTION: SAS 8 |

INFO + DOP, Cl, oles

PS, Fl, FI/INT, WH 7, VR

apentes

SECRET 25222012
DIR INFO MEXI CITE WAVE 2149
TYPIC

1. ODFOAN ADVISED WAVE THAT PHO!

CALL FROM SNE JOSE SAN ANTONIO
CABACA IN MEXICO CITY (PHONE 186354) TO DR. EMILIO NUNEZ PONTUONDO,
MIAMI, WAS MONITORED 24 NOVEMSER 63. CONVERSATION ae TES is SPANISH

AND GIST OF IT IS: PLAN OF CASTRO CaRRIED raat NEXT.
Betrtes

SOON THE ATOMIC B0M3S WILL RAIN MI! SNod?KNoy FROM WHERE.
2. WAVE TRACES NUN SUSJECT 221-312304. ae

NO RECORD CASACA. ge AMOT=2 ADVISED CABACA IS FROBAPLY JOSE

ANTONIO CASARGA SAINZ, DPOB CIRCA 1918 PROVINCE LAS VitLas, CusA.
CURRENTLY RESIDES MEXICQ-CITY, PO 30X 5299 AND HAS SAME - PHONE
NO. PARA 1 ABCVE. HE IS NOv OCCUPIED WITH O8TAINING *

FOR PERSONS DESIRING LEAVE CUSS. HE IS PRONOUNCED &
AND RIGHTIST WITK TIES TO BATISTA GROUPS IN U.S. AND
ALIANZA PARA EL PROGRESS DE

Ica.

“ BEING INFS:

Lol S73

Document Number —————-

OIA Review on .
for Fe rite APR 1976

onl

- LIF YE

REPRODUCTION
“ PROMBITED

conoucrep of BPR TS



13-00000

PRODUCTION.
‘PRORIBITED...

(ten CLassiFiep ot a CO con(’ lentra CO SECRET |
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

sg

‘SUBJECT: (Optionaty

FROM: EXTENSION | NOL

ACTION COPY

TO: (Oftew designation, roam mumber, and
Saling) bali ‘ommcens | COMMENTS (Nanber wach comment te show fom whom
‘Drowa fi ‘her

+E i = eae |e
scot Es fe

Wate

0000237

(1 UNCLASSIFIED

for 61 OME" [] SECRET — (C] CONFIDENTIAL =) {NTERNAL

2a)

EPRODUCTION.
‘PROBIED


13-00000

. | " RepxOOUETOR
PAOEISITED

to a DIRECTOR
FROM 1s MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 5 (WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED 1430 26 Nov/LMG)
INFO + DCI, D/OCI, DOP, ADOP, C/cl, C/FI 2, ¢/SAS 5, VR, D/OS 2, C/SR 5

SECRET 2618392

IMFEDIATE MANA INFO IMMEDIATE Df
Rte

Toko Bin6 8291
1. AT THIS MONENT STATION. OFFICER AND LOCAL SECURITY-OFFICER «
ARE INTERVIEWING NICARAGUAN WHO CLAIMS THAT ON 18 SEPTEMBER HE SAW
LEE OSYALD RECEIVE SIX THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS IN NEETING
e

INSIDE CUBAN EMBASSY MEXI..

2. REQUEST MANA AND DIR ADVISE MEXI OP Ly caiti GIL BERTO :

+)
ALVARADO, BORN 51 JAN 1949 CIUDA et Zeina, nrcara cua. aims
r Why PRIOR RECEIVING SABOTAGE
LO, ROLAN ALVARADO AND CARLOS
FONSECA AMADOR ARE MEMBERS HIS (COMMUNIST?) ORGANIZATION

HE AWAITING FALSE MEXTi
TRAINING CUBA. SAYS 4

NICARAGUA.
RECORDS OFFICER STAMP
SECRET the following action is =
autHorized: “De SENS/ 77/24
Document Number (24 -S4

for FOIA Review on APR 1976 Signed: g Waa —

ro. si - unit Cs//2tA

Bote: If destructica, cite

). Reo-S- | a De OST HT
GUEGREATION REVIEW 53 b9y, est
conoucteo ou 24 MAY 1975 2 26 Neves
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED ‘Copy No.

—_——_— oT : ==" 9000238 -

ai



13-0Q000 aaa - oo ae eee

. ¢ CLASSIFIED MESSAC
Om: JOH Me WITTEN way a
wer s ofan/3 bt

: 5613

SECRET

| mm 5 ——
H DATE: 9 DRORNAER 1963. FILE IN CS FiLt No.
<7) cry

FROM: DIRECTOR

Fr cone: C/WH DEFERRED
i x| rounne
{ ro: ht, O/NeI, OOP, C/CI, C/CI/S1, WR
| % =a 0 oo. 87770

RYBAT GPFLOOR XN
"pep: ext yah (m5 73636)

PLS DO NOT ERAS!
ADVISE HOW MUCH MORE TAFE YOU NEED.

Y SOVIET OR CUBAN TAPES UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.

~~

rar

DOC. MIGRO. SER.
DEC 4 1974
MICROFILMED

‘END OF MESSAGE

t

C/S Comment:*Station to erase routine tapes Soviet Embassy, keep-
ing normal two-week lag.

pew eas

i,

reasons end
if appropriate.

Te.

201-289248

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
lconoucten ov.24 MAY 1976

D-200-5-4h inet nacre =? \9

=
: Tien, ot for FOIA Review on Ley
iy i

DDP COORDIMATING OFFICERS.

RICHARD HELIS, ‘hour
RELEASING OFFICER ‘eetyet fom tematic

j : SECRET

trcassieation

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PRORpOITED

‘ Sy
CLASSIFIED M ¢
zy pom, BR ED MESSAGE io7K Fete
4 MAY 1964 0 FUE IN CS FILE No. IH
- EF =
70 : MEXICO CITY Wray. ie

FROM: DIRECTOR
C/wt 4
ocr, 0/ocl, DOP, Cc/ci, ¢/ci/pi, c/cl

. uy A SIG CEN 0d
peo ;

DEFERRED

CONG:

OUTING

A, VR

AND REGULATIONS OF ‘
AMENT FOR TRAVEL oF PoPRTME CITIZENS

ae TO AND THROUGH CUBA

2. REQUEST MKT CAILE SUMMARY OF ALL. THAT CAN EE CERTAINED
oma ee

x0 ‘alles th, AB eae is

| authorized: DE SEAS) I7TZE ~ fenton, a

Si ci Pe en rnter OT ALG
+O. #1 - » CURA for FOIA Review on JUN 1978

Hote: I és: R, cite

- | reasons and coordinate cyy rz.) cl [Rip

i appropriate. :
Kahxd ue lige G :
a Ac/yra - - CS COPY

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET
e . = :
D-260- REP DUCTION BY OTHER. TH, HE ISU!

0000240

~ REPRODUCTION
| PRERIBITED


13-00000

" REPRODUCTION

_ _—-PROBIGITED

Ta + DIRECTOR
FROM + MEXICO CITY
ACTION: = C/wH

INFO + OCI, D/ocl, ODP, C/ct,

-$ SECRET rte: Aa — oy eee s}
Signe: O :
DIR CITE MEXI 9352 gin? 7522
R.0, #1 ~ Uatt Cr [224A a ai
‘RESET? GPFLOGR

—————
Note: If dostruction, cite
REF DIR 18627* easons and coordinate,

1. SOVIET EMB AND coxsutate aes NOT oPEN.O PUBLIC. OFFICES
ARE IN COMPOUND ACCESSIBLE. TO PUBLIC SY APPOINTHENT. SOVIET GUARDS
ARE ON OUTSIDE GATE AROUND CLOCK. NORMAL WORK HOURS SEP 1963
WERE 0968. TO 1858 BUT RECENTLY CHANGED C909 TO 1468 MONDAY AND
FRIDAYS. SIXTEEN SOVIET FAMILIES LIVE IN CONPOuN NY TS#TORS RING

BELL AT GATE AT ALL HOURS. RUSSIAN SPE. tee IN ANYTIME. ~

OTHERS USUALLY TURNED “AWAY BY gas ey SOVIETS ARE NOT .

KNOWN TO ISSUE PERMITS F, aN :
2. CUBAN EM3 Al ae IN SANE couPounD BUT HAVE SEPARATE

ENTRANCES. CONSULATE RECEIVES VISITORS FROM 1626 TO 1420 HOURS

NONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY. . EMBASSY WORKING HOURS ARE FROM S90 TO 1708

HOURS SAME DAYS BUT MOST EMBASSY VISITGRS USUALLY ATTENDED BEFORE

1453 HOURS. THESE HOURS ALSO APPLIED DURING SEPT 63. 2l-2907¢08
3. CUBAN EMB PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS FOR ISSUING PERMITS

FOR TRAVEL TO AND THROUGH CUBA: VISAS NORMALLY VALID FOR THREE

“ONTHS FROM DATE OF. ISSUE. 5 PRIOR AUTHORIZATION FROM HABANA INVARIABLY _

Document Number t
for FOIA Review dh JUN 1978 1
, SECRET i
- ~ , . REPRODUCTION BY OTHER-THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED Copy No. - {

mranienie
PRORBITED



13-00000

‘REPRODUCTION
- PROMIBITED

See Sanitized Filo . 3
INZZSIZ pace

CUERSFIED MESSAGE
ReqULRED, BEFORE ISSUANCE ANY VISA. APPLICANT COWPLETES VISA
APPLICATION FORM AT CONSULATE, P

ISSION OFTEN OBTAINED |

IN EXCHANGE OF CABLES SETYEEN EMBASSY AiiD NINREX HABANA. IN MANY

CASES VISAS ISSUED ON SEPARATE SHZET PAPER IN EFFORT CONCEAL FACT

OF TRAVEL.

4. MEXICAN GOVT PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS RE TRAVEL PEPRIWE

CITIZENS To AND THROUGH CUBA UNCHANGED SINCE HMMA 20887 DATED 3-MAY
~ 1963. PEPRIME CITIZENS “ita PASSPORTS AND CUBAN VISAS ARE FREE TO

TRAVEL TO CUBA. PBPRIME CITIZENS CAN OSTAIN TOURIST CARDS FROM

MEXICAN CONSUL HAVANA FOR RETURN VIA MEXICO. ©

*Warzen Commission requested KUBARK furrish hours when Cuban
assies and Consulates in Mexico City are open jo.uBlit: thels normal
Be ad ink involved in

issuing perm:

travel to and through Cub:

‘ ik : ‘ oe le
S L.

ne ROOUETLO
SPROMIBITED



13-00000

|
|
een

8 URS SE Sen eq

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From W

By ROBERT S ALLEN’ cials who actively oppose on has yet to be used dismissal of such persons liquid or
5 ‘And PAUL SCOTT “Soviet policies. against any high West. from public office, at oth- form. The
Titled “Soviet Strategic ern official, hundreds of er times even having within’ seco
WASHINGTON, Oct. 20. Executive Action,” the KGB agents covertly op- . them’ ‘eliminated’ physi- - autopsy wou
—The Centrai Intelli- suppressed CIA’ docu- erating outside of Russia | cally. its use. No
gence Agency withheld “ment went intothe shock- have been supplied with "Such activities are - poisons have
Yital intelligence, infor- ing details of how agents this pocket-size, gun, “known to be undertaken ed which do
mation from the Warren of KGB, the Soviet secret awaiting only orders against other types of fect until =
Commission during its in- police, are trained to do from Moscow to use it. persons in the West, not-.-after being :
vestigation of the assas- away with Western lead- ‘The Murder Weapons : ably defectors from the thus allowin;
sination. of President ers, including officials in HIGHLIGHTS of the U.SS.R. and from other - to be far fre
Kennedy. the U.S. and to make suppressed Intelligence countries of the Soviet-..when his vic
Despite the: commis their deaths appear due estimate, which is locked bloc. - “A know
sion’s written request. for to natural causes. in a security area within “One recently reported source has
all documents that might _ One of the KGB's new. the tightly-guarded CIA, assassination technique is pneumati
shed light on the assas- ly devised assassination are as follows: to electrocute an individ- poison ice
sination, CIA authorities waponsis “a: pnumati “It has been reported ual by luring him to which leaves
failed to turn over a na- cally. operated poison ice..that the KGB endeavors use a telephone, connect-
tional intelligence esti-. ‘atomizer,’- which leaves to temoverthe-threat to ed to a high-voltage wire,
mate warning that it is .no wound or other ev- Soviet interests posed by during a thunderstorm.
Kremlin poliey to remove dence, of the cause of-, certalnmembers of West- “Another involves. the
from public office by as- death. =" erm governments,.some- use of a pistol which
sassination Western offi- forzthe - projects a poison gas in - committee
i tee

Fat
fare

fabs
18H

|

* member, determine
Bias pomimeat | Sees Bane | [Carer 7 aed

oificial's name “also ap the State Department wee

peared in the address Oswald's irip to Mexico wor) xk te

Boot a weet SG Sky gave details only of ie aaa

et azent who arrived the defectors visit 10 the a » OF e
be US. in 1945, "ae Russizn embassy and not tO oo

fording to- goverment the Cuban embassy. The - eS

Hes, CIA did not report the - 9, Ooh

Congressional’ investi- latter visit until H
gators also. have been afer al aw {sl
Shocked to discover that Inbal, 7 pn fi gs!
|
!

EPRODUCTION :

*” PRORIBATED _ é

mT)



13-00000

2

ae —— oa |

=! =) a ae , , tee P _ .
= » Inside Washington, BeaLeq a o
=)

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War ren Commission

‘Noman

"By ROBERT S. ALLEN cials who actively oppose on has yet {o be used dismissal of such persons Iiquid or compressed for security reasons re-

ra - And PAUL SCOTT “Soviet policies. against 4 i Weat- from public office, at oth. form. The gas js fatal port that CIA Director
: _, ; Titled “Sovict Strategic ern offici dveds of .er times even having’ .within’ seconds gnd an John McCone made no yo.
WASILINGTON, Oct. 20, Executive Action,” the KGB agen! ytly op- | {hem ‘eliminated’ - physj- “ gutopsy would not reveal] mention of this explosive : ae
The Central Intelli- suppressed CIA docu-. eraling ou! Nussla cally. : - Its use. Non-traceab]e document in his secret
gence Agency withheld . ment went intothe shock- have been d with “Such activities are * poisons have been reporf- testimony before the
vital intelligence infor- ing details of how agents this pock @€; gun, “ known to be yndertaken -ed which do not take ef- Warren Commission.

of KGB, the Sovict secret
_ police, are trained to do

While McCone furnish-
ed the commission with

mation from the Warren

against other types of fect until several hours
Commission during its in- 7 not.

it.. persons in the West, not-. after being administered,

vestigation of the assas-
sination’ of President
Kennedy.

Despite the commis-
sion’s written request for
all documents that might
shed light on the assas-
sination, CIA authorities
failed to turn over a na-
tional intelligence  esti-

away with Western lead-
ers, including officials in
the U.S., and to make

their deaths appear duc ‘es!

to natural causes.
Once of the KGB's new-.
ly devised assassination
wapons ~is ,“a’ pnumatl-
cally. operated polson: ice;
‘atomizer,’.. which ‘lea
+no wound or: other “evi.

awaiting gnly-

from Moscow fo"

“The Murder
HIGHLIGII

suppressed int
imate, 5,181
in a security ared_y
the. tightly-guardeg
are as follows; <g

“It has been re 4
that the KGB endeavors

@ threats

ably defectors from the
U.S.S.R. and from other
countries of the Soviet
bloc. .

“One recently reported
assassination technique is
to electrocute an individ-
ual by luring him to
use a telephone, connect-
ed to a high-voltage wire,
“furing a thunderstorm,

thus allowing an assassin
to be far from the scene
when his victim dies.

“A knowledgeable
source has described a
pneumatically operated”
poison ice ‘atomizer’
which leaves no wound
or other evidence of the

cause of death.”

Congressional investi-

the CIA’s secret surveil-
lance reports on Lee
Harvey Oswald's cight
days in Mexico City be
fore the assassination. in-
cluding details of Os-
wakl’s contact with the
head KGB agent in the
Soviet embassy there,
the CIA chief gave no

edo ht
wee.

7

rr ,

mate ‘warning that it is —
Kremlin policy to remove :
from public office by as-
sassination Western offi-

Wey hint of the Kremlin's as-
sassination policy.

(CONTINUED ON 8-3)

; “Another involves the
Pike of a pistol which
jects a poison gas ‘in

dence of the cause

fators, who have asked
that the name of their
be withheld

committee

*shawa "by Administrat oe
; uments “officials 10 Speaker. _ ;
+ gQTMER US. intel «” Mecormack ask), next , a =o)
GE SIGE fr Ou: ne Yo sewed rea : oe

ud

HOILSNOOM

istence line, stress ‘that. -

Oo . the “Warren Commis.’ warned Bpo 7
= . loms findings mize: mack, a Healcated ail , ==
= ~ “have been different dt; Comminist, that he ig on -
S this CIA estimate and; ‘the “of Western ‘offi
‘other — documents - sup- -. clals feared ‘by. the Krem: »
p pressed by the State De- lin, no CIA authority .
. / pu tment had ‘becn avail. ‘has shown the No. 2 man . :
. : . a ad study, out th e dn government the CIA
asthe State Department Cree Sonal genase ae

~ guppreseed evidgnce tink: aethoda 2 esa
~” dng Oswald. ‘with ono of
7 dts employes, who. a
cording to
“presented

» dearned about the report!
security. files," - oniy recentt B -
stan nro treecdanad yy, rom Baie



13- 00000.

[ DISPAIH coe

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, WH Division |

wer
Gee Harvey OSWALD

Action Required: Please advise re negatives

In view of recent reopening of the publicity regarding
Lee Harvey OSWALD and WOFACT evidence, Headquarters would
like to determine whether the Station still has on hand

the negatives from which the prints available at Headquarters
were made of the unidentified "nystery nan" coming out of
both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies. If they are still

on file, it is requested that they remain so, and that they
be forwarded Headquarters for retention rather than
destroyed if the latter action is ever contemplated.

i SS
r

Elsie I. SCALEITI

AM, Hendeuankes Request Fea the

hegatwes of He uadentfied “myskey wan?
\eroung beth te Ssovet and Coban

Embassed

Distribution:
2 = COS, Mexico City

46 |-B81247 -
QBwA 1957

18 May 1967

— ee

|

201-289248

z re |

RI WH/1_-C. Bust Prsaere sas [sos _|
“COORDINATING r
Oswald (soft file) omcesme Ture] !

RELEASIIG 7
DATE OFFICERS sigxaTi

5
:

i

b

i

| Bicone
|

i

| SHE Zs wa «F



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

PROCESSING ACTION

‘CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

lwo moexina REQUIRED

gare JONLY QUALIFIED DESK
= al ca soc moexna
Chief, WH Division mal oe
Erg

Lee Harvey OSWALD.
"TENN REGORED REFERERS

In view of recent reopening of the publicity regarding
Lee Harvey OSWALD and WOFACT evidence, Headquarters would
like to determine whether the Station still has on hand
the negatives from which the prints available at Headquarters
were made of the unidentified "mystery man" coming out of
both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies. If they are still
on file, it is requested that they remain so, and that they
be forwarded Headquarters for retention rather than
destroyed if the latter action is ever contemplated.

;
t
t
tL
: Action Required: Please advise re negatives
Hl
H
H

i
1
i

: 1 Och 1963,
: Distribution: tr RAR,

2 -- COS, Mexico City

5 GAGSE REFERRICE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND WUMBER

Hw-15488

‘CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET

18 May 1967

289248 es

0000246

WE FILE MUMBER

201-'

REPRODUCTION
-PROMBITED |



13-90000:

"REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED.

OO unaassitie = way CO cone” -yriat OO secret
. ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ~~

action copy | | 7037

TO: (Ofticer designation, room number, ond
‘building QumceRs | COMMENTS (number och comment from whom
n fo whom. “Diew @ line seess colame stir sack comm}

00800247

fee 610 “tress (] secret ©] CONFIDENTIAL «=[] [ATERNAU = 7]UNCLASSIFIED

REPRODUCTION
| PROGIOTTED



nar

eRe

© pame passed to lin Paph ef FEE 22 Movember 1963
with infe ON pdors covtnge of ombassres
info on Koszzko v~

se heve photographic coverage during daylight hours on the
YSGR, Cuban, Geechoslovak and Fulish Embuasiss, Tholr consulates
are located in the embnesies and therefore the coverage of the
H embassies would include covet age of the consulates. :
The photographic coverzge ¢i the menticued Lastallations is of
. @ continuows nature during daylight huurs, however, weather
: conditions and other factor s affecting asy photographic efforts re-

!
\ quire (Ast the toverage net ov considered as total or complete. Our

efforts thosetare do not prody-¢ shetagraphs unaiud for identification

of 2 peraons who enter or degart auch lastallations

Fi =
ears coavinced

A iter oxdmining all our traces on KOSTISSY,

Deyoud reasonable doubt that he is ns of the KGL,

Ey -
Contributing to this <= is Busocistcs, bis movemects,
if
a
his Mextcan aad other Contacts and hia cever position, as well 2a

hig Savolvernent in the UR ERIEEE operation,
KOSTIKOV's involvement in GRSSRMME RB ic oxx only season

to believe that ke is connected with the 13th Department, KOSTIXOY 1
was in clasdestine coxtact with ONPEWUMAMET (ns definitely con-

femed by SOPUAETE pact identification) acd arrang:

RRB contact in the U.S, with a KGB colleague af ost

Docsment Number [G27 G2QL

‘for FC.

0000248

RECORD COPY

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
MAY 1976.

view on APR 1976

4
lconoucteo of 4
E__IMPDET Ct Py_O/2 20%

27 Ne!
_ Dein asa gs

-REPRONUCTION
“PED GS SECRET.



13-00000

ECTION CORY.

TO: (Officer designotion, room mumber, ond
building)

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

Shae a Fb



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROKIBITED

TRIFIACS. | ore. | Numen

Cuban Chronos Susan),
les Harvey Uoweld

DEFERRED . PRIORITY
OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

TNTTALS

2 ROUTINE

cme oo ym

Boag INFO.
EYBAT GPFLOOR

REP: DIR 18827 .
1, -SOVIED 55 AND COUSULATE ARE NOP OPEG 70 PUBLIC, OFFICES ARE I Cott

POUND ACCESSIBLE 10 PUBLIC BY APPOIMEMENT, SOVIET GUAEDS ARE OS OUTSIDE CATE
AROUND CLOCK, WORMAL WORK HOURS SEP 1965 WERE 0200 TO 1600 BUT RECENTLY CHANCED
0900 70 1400 MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY, SOV CONSULATE FREQUETILY CHANGE, NOW OPEN
2200 70 1500 MONDAYS AND FRIDAYS, SIXTEIN SOVIET FAMILIES LIVE IF COMPOUND,
‘VISITORS RING BELL AT GATE AT ALL KEE HOURS, RUSSIAN SPEAKERS CAN GET It
AWETIME, OTHERS USUALLY TUHHED AUAY EY GUARD AFTER HOURS, SOVIETS ARE Ho?
KNOW! 10 TISSUE PERMITS FOR TRAVEL CURA, 7

2. CUBAN HMB AND CONSULATE IH SAME COMPOUND BOP. RAVE! SEPARATE ERTRANCES,
‘Vesrrees USUAL arrmmap res 1460 Rous, ‘THESE HOURS ALSO APPLIED DURING
seer 65.

3. CUBAN IMB PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS FOR ESSUING PERMITS FOR TRAVEL TO

AD THROUGH CUBA: VISAS NORMALLY VALID FOR THREE MORTHS FROM DATE OF ISSUE,
PRIOR AUTHORIZATION FROM HABANA INVARIABLY REQUIRED BEFORE ISSUANCE ANY VISA,
APPLICANT COMPLETES VISA APPLICATION FORM AT CONSULATE, PERMISSION OFTEN OBTATNED

COORDINATING OFFICERS

ECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING:

6200250

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED


13-00000

| | REPRODUCTION
PRORATED

NunBER

pean | | pion |= |
OPERATIONAL | race
ROUTINE IMMEDIATE |
INFO, 2- cite aq ud32

besa

‘DY EXCHANUE OF CAELES BUIWEEH BGASSY AND MINNEX HABANA, ‘i MANY CASES VISAS
ISSUED UT SEPARATE SHEET PAPER IN EFFORT CONCEAL PACT OF TRAVEL,

4, MEXICAN GOV? PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS RE TRAVEL PEPRIME CTTTZEES TO
AND THROUGH CUBA UNCHANGED SINCE HMA 20887 DATED 3 MAY 1965. PEFEDZ CITIZENS
WOUH PASSPORTS AND CUBAN VISAS ARE FREE TO TRAVEL TO CUBA, PEPAIKE CITIZENS
CAN CHTATH TOURIST CARDS FROM MEXICAN CONSUL HAVAEA FOR HETURT VIA MEXICO,

COORDINATING OFFICERS,

SECRET WCCURTIS
AENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

QUTGOING

GO0G251 a

REPRODUCTION
PROBIGITED


13-00000

EPRODUCTION
PROIBITED

1. Poet (201) File Request, dated 9 December 1960
{FOIA No. 1-13]

2. Three index ca ords System on
Lee Harvey 0 dy's assassina-
on.

TEOLA I Non Tse

. DIR 74673, 10 oes UR GRAB BRED. 6-3]

- Memorandum for Chief, CI/R§A, dated 20 February 1964;
Subject: Documents Available in OSWALD's 201 File.
[FOIA No. 563-810]

2g

SeeRET

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Row

REPRODUCTION
PROAIBITED

REPRODUCTION =
PROWIBITED MET


13-00000

| REPRODUCTION

PROWIBITED

_ Cy Sen
EVES HLY

20 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/R&A,

lable in OSWALD's 201 File

SUBJECT: Documenta. Ava:

1. A'machin dieting of documents officially recorded as being
in OSWALD! 201-file we's requested and is attached. The actual

2. comparison of the documents physically available in the
201 file and those recorded as being in the 201 file has shown that 37
documents which should be in the 201 file are not available init, This
total is made up of: .

2 dispatches

7 memoranda from the FBI

1. CSCI

2 State Department documents
25 cables.

3. Machine inquiries for the location of these: ‘documents have

Oceutent “me HBBO

fFOIA Reviewon SUN 1976

not been made.-

SECRET
“EVES ONLY

REPRODUCTION
PROID ISTED

\

GOULTE4


13-00000

REPROD
PROMI

FROM:

CONF:

INFO +

XX,

To

ae

99+ | FOIA Roview on APR 1876 cook SAGRE srriséts
iy RELEA! 7
ar

R

ay,

i 4 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE (x
c.- Bu: pm Mt u ROUTING.
WH/3/Yexico INDEX SECRET T
5940 NO INDEX Z :
10 Oct 1963 {7 FILE IN cs. FiLe”NO. st 5
SEE BELOW 33 gopy | {doerea t2z
YRECKLE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
— oBERBEN
Ik | rounwe
Ch, C1/OPS, C2/S1,.F1, SR 7,-RF, VR
inro- CITE/OIR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE’ 74673
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY . eel

SUBJECT:, © LEE. HENRY OSWALD

1. ON 1 OCTOBER 1963 A RELIABLE AND SENSITIVE SOURCE

IN MEXICO REPORTED THAT AN AMERICAN MALE, WHO IDENTIFIED

HIMSELY as/r OSWALD, CONTACTED THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN
(eae

MEXICO CITY INQUIRING WHETHER. TH® EMBASSY HAD RECEIVED

\ Document Numbso.

sue OFFICE

ANY NEWS CONCERNING A TELEGRAM WHICH HAD BEEN SENT TO

Ma roma 0.5, MARINE ‘WHO DEFECTED TO THE SOVIET UNION IN
y OCTOBER 1959 AND LATER MADE ARRANGEMENTS THROUGH THE UNITED

ae /~2y

INTINUED),

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER. THAN THE ISSUING OFFIQE IS PROHIBITED.
y

hee

EPRODUCTION
PRORIBITED

MGIATY NOLLVOIIISSVIO

Sy
M4 \\ STATES EMBASSY IN MOSCOW TO RETURN TO THE UNITED STATES WITH
HIS RUSSIAN-BORN_WIFE, MARINA NIKOLARYNA: ‘PUSAKOVA, ry THEIR
-3 0

B20S
DeX 63

AUTHENTICATING
‘OFFICER

‘Copy No.

CoUCT! -€5

Qe 5



13-00000

R

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

; CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 282
ROUTING
INDEX SECRET i 73
1 NO Inox z =
TAILE IN cS FILE NO: ; A

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO s + CITE DIR

wis

FURNISHED YOU. THIS INFORUATION

IS BEING MADE AVAILABLE TO aE IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION {
SERVICE. END OF MESSAGE ae

INFO BASED ON MEXI 6453 (IN 36017) 201-289248

RECEIVED ON THIS SUBJECT WILL

es @I/stG/Egerter (in draft) P
Pee SR/CI/RolL (in draft) ia Pere
C3/LIAISON COORDINATING OFFICERS -  C/WR/R

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET Pag erdag
OTHER THAN THE-ISSUING. OFFIC } PROHIB,

ier, Juctio Copy io

GuoUTEs

EPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED



13-00000

SIS, udy Y#8H2U vIOS 194

REPRODUCTION

PRO

i ca Uo aw
OTnrey CArdS Sound inthe De \. 7
Siptom On Fyr Mowry OrresSd oct the jure |

it : cae

i OSWALD, LEE HENRY zot-269260\
SEX M_00B 18 OCT 39 . 5 |

!i-NEW ORLEANS, LA., USA

I] cit? ;

ii, REF

' aR A PS, AS OF 60.
i}, RADAR OPERATOR, U.S. MARINE CORPS,

|} DEFECTED To USSR.-IN OCT 59. ee
i: :

;-

HF
‘a

\f

HIGHT

Kennedy's
J Caran dehin.,

YARZ-35617

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
INDUCTED

momen ms = nnn OS IMPDET CL BYOLZ 2 OF

ee
jfOSWALD, LEE H,
‘ . 190-300-011
/SEK M 00B 18 oct 39 "DBA 33058 [
1-USA, New ORLEANS, 33 OCT 63
Occ = mk
17 USA, NEW ORLEANS, 70g MAGAZINE
+p,MSRLOF THE NEW ORLEANS CHAPTER OF THE
Ceuetlrfne if Heat ay ae
BROADWAY, NEW YORK
'CITY. SEE ‘Doc Re BisR UTA OF CUBAN
;; PROPAGANDA, >
a || :
a .
$
sa 2785 724
?
Sy
s eel es
IN
e OSWALD, LEE HARVEY ae
re SEX M 003 18 OCT 39 Gar -kgk7s |
i INEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA .725 MAY 60
CIT _USSR Panera
: Q MOSCOW, USSR “
j EXsU.S. MARINE, WHO UPON“HIS DESCHARGE FROM
|. MARINE CORPS. , SEPT.99 TRAVELED TO USSR TO
| RENOUNCE HIS U.S. CITIZENSHIP.
; :
he [
“4 .

EPRODUETION
PROWIBITED

Np
20-2424.

OGOU787

402 S
—~T


| REPRODUCTION
| | PROBIRVTED

7 sare SECRET ah
1 (then Pitted f0) Ci
ag ae PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST
- Toare «
EEADQUARTERS, RI 4 £, 96 fay
FROM ig, 7 * 4D ‘ACTION :
if Se C= Aun Eoerze 45 (vez Boe rer} cers j

INSTRUCTIONS: Form aust be typed or pr:

and variants {including waiden name, if applicable) must be Listed. If the iden=
. jeparete form must be used. Write UNKNOW for items you are unable

SECTION 1112 To be compli ia’ all cases.

zaivive pare

WON: SENSITIVE 28 Cr

ma ceaeny Winey
Oswas) bce

2 (haat) (Firat) (Title)

Wyner Gar pare = ar? Sefarnsicie:Pjececlon|vom[or|oinropama!

sccaranjauvragi rien acdiras. eo0e al fl

eet a U6 Marais fophngs NA e :
SECTION 11 wry) UL

U

ou PeeuDONTH
= o SECTION Lil
— LEB gol Sr 11. 7 IND GounTaY INTEREST oy TounTay INTEREST Tee

SSR =

aa
Dect to bes AUssK us Ocheba eH,

Document Number

for FOIA Review en APR R 1975

PERMANENT CHARGE Rony Gig SIGNATURE
ves [oe ver .

rom eal

10-57

eT 2207

(30)

GoourTEs

REPRODUCTION
PROAIBINED



13-00000

SECRET REPRODUCTION
a PROMIBITED

Commission Document 692 (portion dated 31 January
1964) [Copy of FOIA No. 509-803]

Letter from ated 25 October
RP a ot

Department i egram IFIED), dated
31 October 19) gash (ae ATED

Memorandum for J ted 6 March 1964;

Subject: Information in CIA's Possession Regarding
Lee Harvey OSWALD Prior to November 22, 1963.

Note from Richard HELMS to J. Lee RANKIN, dated
6 March 1964.

Memoraridum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 6 March 1964;
Subject: Information in CIA's Possession Regarding

Lee Harvey OSWALD Prior to November 22, 1963.
[FOIA No. 590-252]

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITEL

Y-122Y

XAAZ~2QSAST
eo Mar Oo

MEMORANDUM FOR? Mr, J. Lee Rankin

SUBJECT: .. >” Information in GIAts Possession
; Regarding Lee Harvey OSWALD
G Prior to November 22, 1963 a3 Trauynitheol
+. Werren  Commizsien

“2 "1, This refers to your letter of February 12, 1964
addressed to the Director af Central Intelligence which has
been passed to me for xeply.

2, Paragraph three of your letter requested the Agency
to supply the Commission with a report on information in the .
Agency's possession regarding Lee Harvey CSWALD prior to |
November 22, 1963, The request was predicated upon the
footnote on page two of CIA's report to the Commission dated .
31 January 1964, entitled: ‘Information Developed by CIA on
the Activity of Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City, 25 Sep-
tember = 3 October 1963",

3, There is attached an exact reproduction of the
Agency's official dossier on Lee Harvey OSWALD beginning
with the opening sheet dated 9 December 1960, The entire
dossier carries the security classification of Secret aml i
consists of thirty documents arranged in chronological order, I

_ On the basis of clearances from the Federal Bureau of !
Investigation, the Department of State, the Department of \
Navy, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, who .
were queried by us after the receipt of your letter, we are H
able ts make available exact copies of all materials in the
file up to early Cctober 1963, These include:

590-252

i Document Number

DGi-AIILZTT |.
6 Mex ot i

Go007E9

rR



REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

a. Seven documents received from the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.

b. Ten documents received from the Department
of State. -

c.. Two documents received from the Department
of Navys,-
20 '@S One document (a name check request) from the
immigration and Naturalization Service,

®, Four newspaper clippings.
f, Five internal CIA notes,

g- CIA report dated 31 January 1964 to the Commission
which covers all substantive developments affecting CIA
in the matter of Les Harvey OSWALD from 9 October to
22 November 1963. The repart indicated the disseminations
of information developed by GIA that were made to other
Federal agencies during that period, This item, as was
pointed out at the time, is particularly sensitive and bears
appropriate sensitivity indicators.

4, You will note that almost all af the documents carry
markings required for CIA's internal records processing, A
few of the papers contained the names of ouremployees or
identifications of specific organizational components, We have
taken the liberty of blocking out these items as they do not bear
on the substance of the Commissio

Richard Helme
Deputy Director for Plans

Attachment

Original & 2.» Addressee 1 = C/CI/sIG
1.DDP Subject 4 C/CI/R&A
1 « DDP Chronm gory 1 = C/WH/3

1 « C/CL wo I # 2014289248
CL:¢RGR occa:dc/7468/4 March 1964 (Inventory of documents contained |
in file attached for all but 3dfireanee) 2QOl-2SIZET |
|

cs00780

come

REPRODUCTION ae
PDEIBKTED



13-00000 -

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

Inventory of Documents Contained in OSWALD Dossier Forwarded
to the Commission

1 Zl, State Telegram No, 1304, October 31, 1959 (Confidential)
- » 72, Newspaper Article from the Washington Post, November 1, 1959

v v3, CI/LSN Internal Note dated 2 November 1959 (oral FBI name
check request)’ and NR reply dated 4 November 1959 (Confidential)

* La, Foreign Service Despatch 234, November 2, 1959 (Confidential) /
4, State Telegram 1358, November 9, 1959 (Confidential) .~
+ v6 State ‘Telegram 1448, November 9, 1959 (Confidential) a
» Ay Newspaper Clipping from Washington:Post, November 16, 1959

+ 8, Newspaper Clipping from Evening Star, November 2

+ v9 DBF 49478, 25 May 1960 (Confidential)

» XO, Internal CIA Biographic Profile dated circa’ May 1960 (Confidential)

+» Ail, Letter from the Department of State (Cumming) to DDP (Bissell)
, dated October 25, 1960 (DD/P 0-5679 ~ Secret)

Siete Untine
+ 12, DDP Response to Bit ake 21 November 1960 (DD/P 0-6003 ~
Secret) : : :

- “3. Internal CIA Request for Opening of 201 file, December 1960
(Secret) me

Bae Q /
/14, State Memorandum of Conversation dated January 26, 1961 (OUO) /

= 5, State Instruction A-273, Apri
~. A6, Foreign Service Despatch 806,May26, 1961 (OUO)
« AY Foreign Service Despatch 29). July 11, 1961 (OUO) Y

~ 18, DFB J2181, July 13, 1961 (Confidential) -
~ S

ATT. | te XAAZ-2asr7s — ES COPY
ans Q01~297243

Goee7s4 ©

- REPRODUCTION
PRORIBITED



13-00000.

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED |

XARZ- 22595
oe Maw of

¥/19, Internal CIA Memo for the Record, 23 September 1961 (Secret)
¥ 720, Foreign Service. Despatch 317, October 12, 1961 (QUO)
+ fal, I&NS Name Chack Request, December 5, 1961
S22, Navy. Message 20197/RB/3, 3 March 1962 (Confidential)
v £23, DNA. 1624, 26 April 1962 ; .
« 7%, Newspaper Clipping from Washington Post, June 9, 1962,
25, DBA 20883, September 7, 1962 (Confidential)
+26, DBA 51407, 10 September 1963
» 727, DBA 52355, 24 September 1963
y 28, DBA 55715 (number unclear), November 7, 1963
y 729, DBA 55777, November 8, 1963

a Av. CIA Summary Report on Activities of OSWALD in Mexico City,
dated 31 January 1964

v3 GORY

<2.

DOV- QAITLEeV |

|
| REPRODUCTION

PAOHIBITED



13-00000

| | REPRODUCTION

an ————™
“MEMORANDUM FoR: Mes J. Tee Rankin

Foma wo
1 aue's.

| REPRODUCTION sonra
PROHIBITED



13-00000

CLASSIFI! CATION, peas

ate

ann OH

sion No.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

- MAR 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr.“J. Lee Rankin

SUBJECT: Information in GIAts Possession
garding Lee Harvey OSWALD
‘Prior to November 22, 1963

1, ,This:refers to your letter of February 12, 1964
addressed to the Director of Central Intelligence which has
been;:passed to me for reply,

2, Paragraph three of your letter requested the Agency

.~-9 Bupply the Commission with a report on information in the

Agency's possession regarding Lee Harvey OSWALD prior to
November 22, 1963, The request was predicated upon the
footnote on page two of CIA‘s report to the Commission dated
31 January 1964, entitled: "Information Developed by CIA on
the Activity of Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City, 28 Sep-
tember = 3 October 1963",

3, There is attached an exact reproduction of the
Agency's official dossier on Lee Harvey OSWALD beginning
with the opening sheet dated 9 December 1960. The entire
dossier carries the security classification of Secret and
consists of thirty documents arranged in chronological order.
On the basis of clearances from the FederalBureau of
Investigation, the Department of State, the Department of
Navy, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, who
were queried by us after the receipt of your letter, we are
able to make available exact copiesof all materials in the
file up to early October 1963, THse-include:

A Ley.) pp zy

Presale



Gv GAL ;

nero
purcte ee tecuments zecetved from the Fed AMM T ED)

4

be Ten documents received from the Department baal
of State,
. ¢, Two documents received from the Department
“? of Navye
‘y d. One document (a name check request) from the

Immigration and Naturalization Service,

ue, Four newspaperclippings.
ip £. Five internal’CIA notes,

8» CIA report dated 31 January 1964 to the Commission
which covers all substantive developments affecting CIA
in the matter of Lee Harvey OSWALD from 9 October to
22 Noveinber 1963, The report indicated the disseminations
bey of-information developed by CIA that were made to other
Federal agencies during that period. This item, as was
*° potted out at the time, is particularly sensitive and bears
‘appropriate sensitivity indicators.

[RA

4, You will note that almost all of the documents carry
markings required for GIA's internal records processing, A
few of the papers contained the names of our employees or
identifications of specific organizational components, We have
taken the liberty of blocking out these items as they do not bear
on the substance of the Commission's request,

Droid bmn

Richard Helms
Deputy Director for Plans

Rul

ED

Attachment

LBD
CLASSIFICATION CANCE os
By authority of: C8. hia. OP ef

aa mitc.ing the chaagos

Name and



———--@

7

}-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROTIBITED

Departmen: of State a
35 ae
Action Control: 20261
PPE Rec'd: OCTOBER 31, 1959
lat FROM: MOSCOW 7:59 AM.
nfo
L TO; Secretary of State

NO: 1304, OCTOBER 31, 1 P.M.

EX. OSA, UNMARRIED AGE 20 PP 1733242 ISSUED

1959 APPEARED. AT EMB TODAY TO RENOUNCE AMERICAN
SHIP, STATED APPLIED IN MOSCOW FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP
“LOWING ENTRY USSR FROM HELSINKI OCT 15. MOTHER'S

ADDRESS AND HIS LAST ADDRESS US 4936 COLLINWOOD ST.,

FORT WORTH TEXAS. SAYS ACTION CONTEMPLATED LAST TWO

YEARS « MAIN REASON "| AM MARXIST". ATTITUDE ARROGANT

RULLI CASE WE PROPOSE DELAY EXECUTING RENUNCIATION 7
UNTIL SOVIET ACTION KNOWN OR DEPT ADVISES. DESPATCH
FOLLCWS. PRESS INFORMED.

FREERS

UNLESS “UNCLASSIFIED”
REPRODUCTION FROIM THIS
COPY IS PROHIBITED.

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED

S Pe Gy

9)

nove 20

a DEPARTMENT OF STATE |
THE DIRECTOR OF INTELLIGENCE AND RESEARCH
WASHINGTON

OCT 25 1960

_Desr Dick:

Our efforts to answer recent informal inquiries, including some.
“from the White House Staff, have revealed that, though CIA and the
FHI have detailed records concerning Americans who have been recruited
as intelligence agents by Bloc countries, there does not appear to be “
a complete listing of those Americans now living in Bloc countries
who might be called "defectors". Using the definitions of DCD L/2,
i. these persons might be described os those who have either been,
i, capable of providing useful intelligence to the Bloc or those whose ‘
. | desire to resettle in Hloc countries has been significantly exploited -/
lees “|: for communist propaganda purposes. This would mean that no attention :
. 101, meed be paid to Americans whose resettlement within the Bloc had no
counter-intelligence implications or had attracted no particular *
attention; for instance, this definition would not cover individual
US citizens of East Europeon or Chinese origin who retuned to the
“homeland” because they had never been conpletely assimilated into
_ the American society.

Thera is attached a list of such persons, covering the last 1B
months, and it would be appreciated if the Agency could verify and
possibly expand this list for the use of interested Bureaus of, the yu
Department. ‘ : B

_Sincerely yours,

: S. Cumming, Jr.
‘Attachments : eet

List of American "Defectors"
_ from May 1959 ~ October 1960.

. Mr. Richard M. Bissell, Jr.
Deputy Director, Plans, ‘
Central Intelligence Agency. ee et i

SECRET

| iret N
PAKURTTED



13-00000

j

R

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

_ Forces in June 1959 and stated that he wished to remain in

LIST_OF_AVERTCAN "DRFECTORS" om

Morris and Mollie BLOCK, living in the USSR, and possibly” :
Communist China, since the fall of 19596 ib ta : i

David DuBOLS (aka DUPEBOY), living in Peiping since May =< o i
1960, but may have returned to the U.S. Go. ad

Sgt. Joseph DUTKANICZ, U.S. Army, defected to East German
Forces about the spring of 1960. re

Sgt. Ernie F. FLETCHER, U.S. Army, defected to East German |,

East Germany at a confrontation held on August 5, 1959 : i
(CINCUSAREUR telegram SX 5307 of 0617hL2 August). 7 . a

Sgt. (fu) JONES, U.S. Air Force, defected in mid May 1960

to East German Forces (Air Intelligence Information Report
number 130223 of August 9, 1960.) aaa
William MARTIN, NSA employee, =~ :
Bernon MITCHELL, NSA employee.

Lee Hervey OSWALD, tourist.

Idbero RICCIARDELLI, tourist. aaa

Prt. Visdinir SLOBODA, U.S. Ary, defected to East Geman =.
Forces in the spring of 1960. D6

Robert Edward WEBSTER, tourist, (see New York Times article ©
of October 20, 1959). he

Bruce Frederick DAVIS, U.S. Army, defected to East German.
Forces, August 19, 1960 (Embassy Moscow telegram 1032 of :
October 22, 1960). :

: : CONFIDENTIAL

6 ant tag Boe
’

Baw

[ REPRODUCTION
PRORIGITED

j
4


13-00000. .

REPRODUCTION

BITE a
PROIBITED
fee ~ : BH pres
aaa .
31 January 1964 &
Information Develoned by GEA" on the Activity of
Lee Earvey OSWALD in ‘9 City
26 Septombor - 3 Octever 1903 cS
I, OSWALD's Activity in Mextco City
1, O8-9"Octobex the CIA Station in Mexico City reccived _
tho'feflowing information from a relizble and proven source: & aed

An American named Lee OSWALD had contacted
the Seviet Embassy in Mexico City on Tuesday, 1 October
2963, He had spoken in halting Russian to the Soviet
Embassy guard, Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV, to whom
he said he had visited the Embassy two days earlicr,
Saturday, 28 September. Ho asked whether there had
boon a reply to 2 telegram that the Congul with whom he

"had spoken, but whose name be could not recall, had -
promised to cend to Washington, OBYEDKOV had

attempted te establish the wentity of the Conaul with

whom OSWALD had talxed: if w had beoma dark juzson,

8a - wr
then it had probably beon xosgaggy OBYEDKOV, | —

Document Number coy. OF 509 *203

REPRODUCTION =. “ee [Ax

6000929 rm fp



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

after a check with Sovict Consular personnel, assured

OSWALD the telegram had been sont to Washington but =
-

no answer had been received,”

Tho information was forwarded by cable to CIA Headquarters
the samo day it was received,

2, <A file chock’ in Washington which is routine in these

RANE

matters-rovealéd the possibility of an identity between the Lee

LS
OSWALD who had spoken with OBYEDKOV, and presumably

with KOSTIKOV, and the defector returnee, Lee Harvey OSWALD,*

‘

3, On 10 October 1963 CIA Headquarters disseminated by

I

+ cable the report in substantially the form and in the detail

indicated above, in paragraph 1, to the Federal agencies whose

|
}

juvisdictional interests had been established by a review of

OSWALD!s file: the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Depart

a

fosee

# The GIA file on Lee Harvey OSWALD was opened of 9 Decomber
1960 to accommodate biographic information developed by CIA in
response to an inquiry from the Department af Stata ona list of
American defectors in Soviet Bloc countries, OSWALD's was
among the names inthe list, The Department of State inquiry
was dated 25 October 1960, An interim reply was given by CLA
oa 3 November 1960; a fins] reply, .on 21) November 1960, Until
ezzly October 1963 the contenta.f the OSWALD file held by GIA
consicted entirely of press matesigts and disaeminations
_received from the Department of State, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, and the Navy Department,

Gov0gzO



13-00000

REPRODUCTION

SenstTIVE SURE AND
METHODS WAVE" D_

ment of State, the Navy Depaztmoat, and the Immigration and

Naturalization Service, A commont was inclufed in the report
noting the likelihood that the eubject, thee OSWALD, was
probably identical with the former Marine who had defected to
the Soviet Union in 1959... (The report disseminated by CIA in

Washingtoa.on 10,Cétober also included a physical desc
-

of amindividial who was believed to have been the OSWALD who
By Soe

bad

established by investigation that the description did not pertain

jatacted the Soviets in Mexico City, It was subsequentiy

to OSWALD.)
4. Onthe same day, 10 Cctobor 1963, CIA Headquarters
sent a lengthy cable summary to the Mexico City Station of the

background information held in tho Headquarters! file on

OSWALD, An instruction was inchiled for the Mexico City”
Station to pass the substance of its 9 Cetober report to the local
representatives of the same Federal departments and agencies
that had been given the information in Washington, This
instruction was immediately carried ‘Outs: In this manner the

information on OSWALD!2 «. with the Soviets on 1 Cctober

was passed in Mexico City to the Embassy, the FBI representative
the Naval Attache, and to the office of the Immigration and

Naturalization Service, There were no requests from rec:

PRORIENTED

6000931


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITE!

5. After the assassination of President Kenneiy and the

arrest of Lec Harvey OSWALD, ga latensive review of all ES
available sources was vadertiion la Mexico City to deterzaine —
, the purpose of OSWAXD's visit, It was learned that OSWALD

had also visited” tho Cuban Consulate la Mexico City and had

talked thefe.wlth a clerk, a Mexican national, named Sliviz : =
DURAN. «After the sssascioatios and the publicity about Lee

‘Spirit, Slivia DURAN had told a nuraber of relatlvos and :
fxlonde that she had talked to OSWALD about a Cuban visa. :
Silvia OURAN and hez husband, Horazio DURAN Navarro, wera a +

detained and questioned by the Mexican police frox 23 to 25
November 1963.

6. After giving some of the details. of her own personal
background = she is an adraitted Leitist sympathizer and had

formerly worked for the Mexican-Cuban Institute of Cultural

Relations ~ Silvia DURAN said that whon sho first heard of the
death of President Keanedy she had been deprossed.and. thought
the assassin must have beon a maniac, When dhe ledrmed that

he was associated with the "Falr Play. for Cuba Committee"

she did net belleve it.

7. She talked about the ‘Tggto hor husband and when che

heard the name of Lee CSWALD mentioned, she recognized it as

GIUUNZ2

PRORISITED. | ee

| REPRODUCTION ——
|



13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROTIBITED

the man who had corae to the Consulate about two months before

to gota visa to transit Cuba on dt Way to the USSR. She

realized that he had said-fe was married to a Rusaian and that

zs
he had bolonged to"the:"Fair Play for Cuba" group. Sho checked

her file omliim in the Consular archives and from the descigtive

agin; she was ouro It was the same man, He was short, blond,

pactly dressed and his face got red when he talked. He waa
denied a Cuban transit visa because he did not yet have a Soviot
visa, and he was told to get tho Soviet visa first, but it was noted
that this would take about four months. She had asked the Cuban
Consul himself, Euscblo AZCUE, to talk to OSWALD and they
had an argument when AZCUE uxged OSWALD to leave Moxtco
Instead of waiting there. The Consul had phoned the Soviet Con-
culate and talked to the person handling OSWALD's case, who
had said it would take about four months to hear from Moscow
about the Sovict visa, The same afternoon, ‘OSWALD-bad come”
back again and she had told him the same thing. ‘Shg'gave
OSWALD a olip of paper with her name and telephone number on

a".
lt in caso he ever got his Soviet.visa. ,He did not call back, she sald..

8. Silvia DURAN's hus! Horacio DURAN Navarro, gave

essentially the same story, as he had previously heard it from

his wife after the assassination. He had never had any porsonal

contact with OSWALD.

i)

Re

\

.

ae

R

Eraanwenioe
PROG IBTED

6000933



| REPRODUCTION
_ PROHIBITED

9. Silvia DURAN wos reinterrogated by tho Mextean police
from 27 to 29 November but she did not change or add materially Be
Es.

to her story about CSWALD,

10, It is known that th: n Ambassador in Mexico,

Joaquin HERNANDEZ-Armas, reported on the detainment and

interrogation of Silvia DURAN by the Mexican authoritios, Tho

Cubag Government seat the Maxicon Government a stiff note of
Tete

s
protege? which the Mexicans zejected.

11, . We are reliably informed that on 26
day after DURAN's release, Cubaa President DORTICCS queried
HERNANDEZ about his report, HERNANDEZ confixmed that
there had been an altercation between OSWALD and Consul
AZCUE, DORTICOS made a persictent but unsuccessful effort
to determine from HERNANDEZ whethor tho Mexican authorities
had questioned Mrs, DURAN about money, or thought that the .
Cubans had paid OSWALD moxey, .

12, The CIA follow-up tavestigation produced the following

confirmed results which have a bearing on Mrs, DURAN's account:

a, 27 September. Inzhid-afternoon, Silvia DURAN

aR
informed the Soviet Embass} that a male Amorican citizen

had requested a vioa to transit Cuba on his way to the

| REPRODUCTION
PROM OuIITED “2 6000934



13-00000

‘REPRODUCTION
PROHNTED

Leia din ty, btninimiitone coe

at,
talked with at the Sovict Consulate!

FN

Also, she indicated

that the Cuban Consulate could great him the visa and

arrange immigration details if the concession of a Soviet

visa were assured,

Se

+ Pursuant to her inquiry, Silvia

bo, ay
Saoran received a confirmetion from the Soviet Embassy

that the American had beca to the USSR installation, He

i
H had shown them a letter from the Soviet Consulate in . &
H Washington indicating thet he had been long awaiting a cab

visa for himself and his wife to go to the USSR, No ‘

' answer had come from Washington; however, the waiting -
period was sometimes four or five months, The American F ee

, also had a letter attesting that he was 2 member of etre so
Cuban organization but he had clatmed that the Cubana : Pe

would not give him a visa unless he had already received

a Russian visa,
Although the American was still at the Cuban.
Gonsulate, Silvia DURAN repeated that she dould not give

“
him a transit viea unledb a Soviet viea was forthcoming,

notwithstanding the American's wish to go to Cuba to wait



13-00000

there for hie Soviet visa, According to DURAN, the
American knew no one in Cuba cnt ho intended to

appropriately annotate thé American's card, The Soviet
official echoed hei statement that the Amorican was not

Imown,

“4,060 28 September, Silvia DURAN was again visited

ce

bt the Cuban Embasey in Moxico City by the American
seoking a Guban transit visa, Mre, DURAN contacted at
least two members of the Soviet Embassy and facilitated
2 diroct conversation between one of the Soviets and the
American, Gonversing in poor Russian, the-American _
stated that he lalzcady had been to the Soviot Consulate

and had loft anaddresa, The Soviet official replied that

” ne was aware of that, The American suggested that ho «\

Le
had not known hie address then, and he had gone to the.
° ee

Cuban Embassy to ask for the address, becausethicy had
a®. :

it, The American then acceded to the Sovfét ‘official's

invitation to come by and give them-the address,

4, 1 October, In midaytiorning an unidentified

individual, speaking broken Rudcian, contacted the Sovict

Military Atiacho in Mexico City, He said he had beonto

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED

i
'

REPRODUCTION
i: ies



13-00000

the Embassy tho previous Ssturday (28 September) and

hod talked with a Consul who had.said they would sond a

telegram to Washington: thers beena roply? He

was referred:to the Consulate for the information,
mae

Those additiongiinatertals were promptly disseminated in

ad the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
@. 1 October, Sco paragraph } above for Lee

OSWALD's contact with tho Soviet Consulate.

I, Voloriy Visdisairovich KOSTING'

13, It is beHeved that the Sovict official with whom
OSWALD dealt in Mexico City was Coasular Attache Valeriy
Viedimirovich KOSTIKOV, born in Moscow, 17 March 1933, *
A photograph of KOSTIKOV is attached, In his letter of

9 November to the Soviet Consulate in Washington, OSWALD

wrote about his "meetings with Comrade KOSTIN (sic) of s88°

Soviet Union in Mexico City, Mexico,” There is naréificial
*

eo
of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City with amadmeé resembling

"KOSTIN", other than Consul KCSTISOv,

14, KCSTIKOV is the sqnichetficer of five Soviet
2

Consular representatives who déal with visas and related

REPRODUCTION
PROIBITED

a

[;



13-00000.

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED

matters. There is firm evidence for the conclusion that KOSTIKOV
is a Sovict Stato Seeurity (KGB) c“ficer, and the other four Coasular <2

officers are also known or strongly #Gspected to be Sovict Stata

Socusity persomnel serving uadér official cover, The State Security

rae
Service is the major of #fi¢ Sovict intelligence services and it is ’

charged with esp’

ge, courterinteligence and related matters 4
ingle the Sqvict Union and overseas. =

A; must be clearly ateted that Soviet intelligence and

security officers placed abroad under official cover normally

. ==
are required to perform the routiae and legitimate business BS

ee

|

demanded by the cover job in an embassy or conaulato,

16, KOSTIKOV was first cpotted as 2 KGB man because
of his travels around Mexico, his habitual essociation with known
KGB officers, and because consuls, in Soviet practice, are
usually KGB men,

x

17, KOSTIKOV is belloved to work for Department Thirteen

of the First Chief Directorate of the KGB. It is the Department
responsible for executive action, including sabotage ‘goa assassi~

nation, These functions of the KGB are known within the Service

itself as “Wet Affairs" (mokryye dela).”'The: Thirteenth Department Ve

16 infoxmation, conducts ian

headquarters, according to vory
interviews or, ao appropriate, file reviews on every forcign ——

REPRODUCTION .
. PROG ITED 6000938 a



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

militory defector to the USSR te study and to determine the
possibility of utilizing the defector in his country of origin, a
fame

18 An intensive review of the files of ow Mexico City

Station was undertaken immediately after the asszagination to

com> out any previously umeporzied information about KOSTIKOV's

ye No uscfél new icformation bearing on the 2osassivation es
resulted Ag
.
19, A close observation was maintained on the Sovict !
personnel, KOSTIKOV in particwaz, for days after 22 November, —
Nothing unusual or out-of-pattern waa noted in the activity or Ee

movements of the Soviet personnel,
: 20, If is of parenthetic interest, however, that the Sovict
Ambassadoz, when he maée bis cail of sympathy on the American

Ambassador, 23 November, wao accompanied by two ranking

intelligence officers who are in the Soviet installation under

diplomatic cover, One is known to be from the State Security
Service and the other is an identified Soviet Gernal Staff

Intelligence (GRU) officer,

TI, Monetary Payment to CSWALD ~ Investigation of Allegation
21, On 26 November 1963 dyoung Nicaraguan named

Gibsrte ALVARADO Ugerte walked into the U,S, Embassy in

REPRODUCTION
; PROGIBIMED



13-00000, .

Mexico City on 18 Soptember 1963 when a man he later recognized
to be Lee OSWALD hod beea given $6, 500 in cash to kill someone,
ALVARADO was known to CIA as a former informant of a Central

American security service and to have been used to penetrate
Ny,

communist guerrilla groups. He said that-he was in Mexica
City still working for his sexvice, trying to get himself accepted
by the Cubans as 2 communist 60 thoy would take him to Cuba for

guerrilla training, ALVARADO clearly wes a trained intelligence

agentedigt he Was able to describe people and locations well, He
“pate”
hod apparently visited the Cuban Embassy and its Consular offices :

ona number of occasions and he correctly identified some twenty

Cuban Exbascy and Consular employees,

22, While intensive investigation in the United State:

_showed that OSWALD could not possibly have been in sana ee "
City on 18 September (he was known to have been in New Orleans
on bots 17 and 19 September), intensive interrogation failed to
shake ALVARADO's story, However, the. Central American
service for which he claimed to be acting, denied that he was

stillworking for them.

[= REPRODUCTION
o City and claimed ho had been in the Cuan =P ROUBLE ITED E

Be

Al



13-00Q06:

| os

23, On28 November 193, the Mexican police ti
ad

ALVARADO over for further interrogation, At first,
persisted in hio story, but oa 30 November he finally admitted
in a signed statement that he had fabricated the whole incident
of secing OSWALD in the Cuban Consulate being paid to kill

ca

NN
mae

24. Once Felensed ii ez, ALVARADO promptly

somcone,

retracted his confésotan, ‘élaiming that it had been extorted
under threat of extreme duresa,

25, Under ordinary circumstances CIA would havo dis

ieearded this retraction, But because of the importance of

resolving the problem CIA personnel continued the interrogation

in close coordination with the FBI, ALVARADO voluntarily
agreed to alie detector examination, A CIA polygraph expert,
assisted by en FBI special egent, requestioned ALVARADO and
secured admiccions that he must have been mistaken, The CIA
polygraph expert concivded from the resulta of his tests that!
ALVARADO had fabricated his story about OSWALD ia toto,

26, It should be noted that when he first-told his story
on 26 November, ALVARADO could have known from the

Mexican press that OSWAE f i visited the Cuban Consulate

ot

aye EY



|
i

“sepnoiqucriee
wie cy ty secant ee oA ED

there that CSWALD had $5, 000 with him when he returned from

‘Moxico to the United States. ALVARADO has since Been deported

by the Mexican authorities to his native Nicaragua.

“
eet, fe
Yee Re =
we  €g
=
Attachment - photograph B =

| REPRODUCTION ©



13-00000

Sct REPRODUCTICN
vaucLcomet: —_pROUIBITED

1. Four cards regarding Lee Harvey OSWALD e,
Marina OSWALD (Watch List)

REPRODUCTION
PROGISITED

REPRODUCTION
PROAIBSITED sd


13-00000

SECRET REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

“

” eed
ares!
— ~ a
wr
vs i
t
. Sd]
ooh
Sa X
ee _ tnt eee
¢
“OSWALD, Lee Harvey ware SRG Peerter,
Minsk, USSR 7 August. 1961 /o~2.
. V-343
DOB: 18 October 1939 one
POB: New Orleans, Louisiana
Defected to Russia 1959. 5
17 August 1900 received undesirable dischargé
| from U. S. Marine,torps Reserve
1 Reportedly exprésees desire for return to the a
{ ce: a th 5 3 US under
sagt Le ‘ -
: i ae fe i a
4 \ i
Se se i i
28 Dalila 2 rmeyGar i
Te . TE
OSWALD, Marina 26. Nov 63 y
; Box 2915 CI/Project/RE
7 . | Dalles, Texas laser . 4
i
Wife of late Lee Harvey OSWALD. 4 ,
| esa2ti- 63Fa20 : ce
) fa : |
gee rorter Marine meg

20943

RePRopuerion  S*°R*
PROMIBIMED a



| REPRODUCTION

3 PROWIBITED

Subjeft is the wife of the late Lee Harvey OSuALD;

' , ’
oy ¢ ee ee Semon . BY
+ PORTER, Marina Pruskova“Osvald 29unel965 —
a Box 2915 ¥ . CI/Proj/PH id
Dalles, Texas nm | “7
ee
|

recently married to Kenneth Jess PORTER, 27 year old i
Texan; electronics technician. They were married al
in early June 1965 in Fate, Texas. 7 od
4 gyre i
y am
Petefedl by Yl. wife. :
j ThSErey = i
: i k
' 3
2 & og 0 ‘ a
i
é af
sao ;
‘ B

REPRODUCTION
PROGBIMED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION

ee PROWIBITED

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1. eae i puenore indum, dated 27 November 1963; Subject:
y OSWALD.
2. Transcript erat ion between O'NEAL
and PAPICH a: oa18 27 Rov enber Tr 1963.

a
PROMIBITED

REPRODUCTION stoner
PROGISITED


13-00000

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSWALD

At 0915 hours on 27 November, Mr. oe FBI Liaison Officer, called

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

2T Novenver 1963 |

to furnish in part such intoraation ad bas been able to acquire concern-

ing the r

With reference tod »

information which ‘we

Mr. Papich advised thet

requests contadned
ONC
ne from OSWALD prior to his death, ~.

Nig is informed by the oolice (see notes)

AOA |
gh tee DIR 84951 on 25 November. Hl
i
i

relate to the extent of -

With reference to paragraph E, which deals with the question of when the

Subject left New Orleans and the identifying background information concern-

snd ra.

PAINE and the station wagon driven by Mrs. Paine when she drove

the wife and child from New Orleans to Texas, he stated that the Bureau

is working on that nstter and he ney have some information today.

Mr. Papich was advised that the Bureeu is working on a matter of any

information concerning the wife's deslings
Washington about visas to retura

ay
the wife is being interrogated. \‘Thes:

SSN “oe
a gates

mentioned aman Ce

en the Soviet Embassy in

ie Sogiet Union. He also stated that
MS

wegtions were put in para F of the

ot receive subsequently a

3B me know at this stage what he had.

teletype response but —
Mr. Papich emphasize that there are all kinds of reports coming in

from all kinds of sources - “everybody except the North Pole."

He felt

that all of us have to keep our feet on the ground. He mentioned that a

report is being prepared by the Bureau and it was hoped that it could be

ptten

today and delivered to

Mr. Katzenbach after which there would

be a decision made as to whether it would be publicized and this decision

would be made by the President.

6001723

EPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

Birch D.
C/ct/sic

O'Heal

ne pp lbe

COPY NO«

SECRET


13-00000

‘REPRODUCTION
<2ORET PROMIBITE

~ oA
‘Teleghone Coaversation cetween Mr. O'Neal and Mr. Papich av 0915, 27 lovesber 1963

5 oN
wr. Pagich: Cn questions A, B, C, D - he vee nat questioned on any of those.

We have been told the polizendita
VND
upto theif ve questioned vay the assassination

Nand've finally got access to hin

and vith the time

and such, so coc gotten figver 5 covered. We weren't given
authority to move in wi Piaay so those questions were not covered.
With regard to B - Ars}, Paine, ete., ve are vorking on that.
_¥ - we have sone information for you on that indicating commnication
vetween him and the Embassy up there.
‘the vite 1s being interrogated. I don't mow if that took place yesterd:
or is still going on. You are getting a teletype answer on that. I am

dust giving you a preview.

With regard to that, Nicaraguan's, allegations that the man vas in the

Cuben Embassy on 18 September, I undérstand we do have information that
he applied for a tourist card about the 15th of September. There is a
record showing entry into Mexico on September 26. On about the 15th he

applied in New Orleans for a tourist cag. We do know he was in -

I may even have some later Anterini dah ch came in during the night -

3
As you know, he was ta ace Gabe! te when the family left.

al: He left here ti SSL Kw
P 3} He was seen onthe ee te landlady said he skiped during the night,

He was last seen by the rantiaay BSS Now we have immigration records showing him
entering Mexico on the 26th which very strongly suggests that he was not in Mexico
on the 18th. What we are trying to find out is where he was every single day -

the 25th, 2th, and all the way back. I think the Nicaraguan story is fabricated

myself.

REPRODYGTIORY = sane
PROSIBITED



13-00000

at REPRODUCTION
s PRORICITED

~ ion

Page 2 of telephone conversation |
Papich-O'lieal 27 Nov 63

|

|

Onn: It looks like it but I guess it has to be rua cut completely. i

? I understand he is not a very credible source and vas dumped by the i

Nicaraguans. Well, that will be run put anyway but it doesn't look good.
eS

Bear in mind that on the 25th ae

Of course he may have | oo le don't know.
SS ~ ae AN »)
O'N: You don't have, aoe 2 AN thet he had money?
S AN .
P On the contra: — s will all shape up quite accurately

in the next couple onan

Gat broke and he skipped out.

om: I've got 2 note on one here ~ there have been a number of them going
over there during the night, Sam. I will give you some numbers if you
vant -
P: No, I'l1 let them take their course. They are in the midst right now
in preparing a complete up-to-date report. They are documenting everything ,

taat took place from the beginning on through and they are probably going
to try to finish that today. I understend once it is finished MUIZENBACE
takes it. Mutzenbach will take it end confer with committed agencies and
a determination will be made as to whether it will be made public or not.
I guess the President will decide that.

We are doing a report and we will pe @ memorandum on that sometime

today. You will be over” here. tide Spat
P: Very definitely. "3 ~ RW)
Orn: ve wil give it to You sO will mention it to you now. There is

@ Dr. Jose Giullermo Aguifre of Mexico who has told a story to a USIA
officer on 26 November that a Marie Rodrigues de Lopex, widow of Lopez,

2 had a son-in-law of hers who lives in New Orleans and was well ecquainted

(64795 ot LL

“REPRODUCTION ee a
PROMI BITED.



13-00000

PRET REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

ra

|
Page 3 |
|
i

with CSWALD. The son-in-law is a Cuban, asset ges iguez who lived at 212 Jefferson

K i
Parish. That sounds like an ssomntae ‘ f

‘
Wy
Pepich: That's a county. os «dS
ON: His teleghone x x reso and this Rodriguez ARVESTO runs a
Spanish lenguage school and is a |. According to Marie Rodriguez, her 5
conversations

son-in-law has taped converstons-with OSWALD. on
Papich: That might be referring to - there is a taped conversation - it’s beea

oa the air and,has been publicized. There was a who 444 interview him on or

avout the time he was arrested. In fact the transcript of that interview appeared

in a newspaper there the other day.

Ora: This might be the sane tapes and maybe there is some connection between

Rodriguez and the other guy vho had them. But ve will put this in memorandum

and send it over to you.

Fapich: Okay. Tell everytody to keep their feet on the ground. The Aubessador o
down there just went nuts. This will ell PrN It would be premature to move

so quickly on that angle. . wo

ON: It might have been all fe

Se vou find other confirming stuff.

Wor ea
Papich: | We have still ae and investigate it but that

Ambassador dova there - S from everybody but the North Pole on it.
Ig you let yourself go you will go orbit.
6001726

REPRODUCTION som, tt
eOURITED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
sa PRORIBITED

Last part of conversation between Mr. Pagick and Mr. O'ileal 27 Hov 63 at 10:

Papich:

O'N:

Papich:

O'N:

Papich:

Tae last one pertains t

US

> I, may find in our files here - I

a
think I can Sa

\
is the all OF thebeigey that he is in the 13th Department.

Both you ana ve wea etton that KOSTYXDV is connected with the
13th Dept in KGB. ‘

On the basis of an analysis isn't it?

I think so. Is that all you have - the basis of an analysis - or do
you have anything more specific which would pinpoint him as being a
member of that dept.?

I think that. all stens fron [ Fl caver).

Yes and Pete is familiar with retation. AIL T can do is to call
Pete. Tt

ww
The boss has asked that auestseg Qt want to have thet all right.

BO”,
I think we sent a thing @t{@ 8 you on thet - T believe there vas

N AY
CSCI on that. rae oe cagetona me to a8 - 1 vith check on
xe NS

I am not a LY, «
No, keep it right <A brief and very simple.

cous 27

REPRODUCTION wot Ce

GRET]

PROMIBIMED

ws 1A Ypoe up vith the same analysis - that
8 Ww



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
ric PROWIBITED

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1. Tran: ene Spanish) of t
pecwesnty ieee and tnlden ei fi ed | fe
22 Novenber i

2. Translat:

3. No’

BSR
PROMIBITED

REPRODUCTION —_seaner
PROAIBIMED


13-00000°

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

_ 6601843

REPRODUCTION — yg
__ PROAIBITED 7


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
a PRERIENTED

ay ost HE 3 ae ue se Higwa\ind IUISA, in a joking tone says,
ert ae
"Yes, of course, T knen@ie

HP omiles and coments that is
very bad; that at Strat Yn :
who were egainst integration ani that, but 1t seams tint they apprehended a type who
4s nothing more than the presidant of one of the committees of the Fair Play for

at had been one of the reactionary extremists

= Cuba. LUISA: That she knew this also. Hi: Teas nothing has been confirmed yet, -

- but it seems..that the one who did it, vai crazy, indeyendently af the fact that
this coula have been said about XENEDY. "given the international.c conditions and

itionally...it seemed quite affected

Si

end they can't go through a great
of that sort; above all, that...IUISA: Interrupts and asks if it was a gringo that

» with a change of President or sonething

killea him end HF says yes, but said that he had been in Russia, and that he wanted
to becous a Russian citizen, but Russia bad not vented to nationalize hin...
IUISA is surprised and says “Listen - they really Inov things there!” HF: Yes:
that he mows Russian very well and besides this type hed sme vith Fidel's forces
to the Slerra, or wanbéa to go, sonethias D that - who knows how it was. LUISA:

Pretty sericas. Hi? Auntte a Bits © else she has learned and LUISA

says just about that, that \Teammed. Yat a little while ago and they are...
=

, east pets Pating with come tends ond comenting on °

Ep: That it's ell very
eX

sno rersta Passion vies ta estos out, ven somncae cane and gave then te

news; that he ves surprised ab§ thought he vas joking. DISA: That she bad

been looking at the wagazine, that the conrade had brought 1t t6 her...HF: ‘That

sande

cccae44

REPRODUCTION = gp

POD



13-00000: ge uq . u

| REPRODUCTION
w — PRORIBITED

2.

his friend comented that a Mextcan had J#Tlea hin, that suddenly he had realized

that tn United Saten nad eA Reale SoG gD cut of revenge killed the President;

thet 18 van all a Soke, Kh they ata Yor until he told then to turn on

a
}they learned about it; that the last he had

the redio; that's vat ey @

a type is one OSWALD, that it 1s believed that
this is the one, taut he has not confessed anything... LUISA: But they already
Imow that he speaks Russian and belongs tq‘ Pro-Cuba Comittee; that they

already Imov that he vanted to nationalize. insel?, but he has not confessed.

they tried to find some let's
hin to vait a mimte, aske him

integration who ha@ killed Kennedy, then
there was, let's say, the possibility that « sort of civil war would arise in the .

tion in this type, no? More 4

knows; let's see “ee and asks vhst will mppen. HF:

st
PN

Who Imnows. LUISA: 7 SAS » thres and now, that makes three (she laughs).
HF: I think that it will be the tonie of the day at thst party of SILVIA's.
LUISA: They suspended it because they could not go. HF asks vhy, and LUISA says
"go that after they can say that ve ere the death of KENNEDY, then wo
spoke with SYIVIA end she agreed to suspend.tt and leave it until next week, but tt

“— will not coineide with the burial, ‘Yaughe)", - HFr “Tant has to be taken into

account. LUISA: That it

‘REPRODUCTION ye ae
PROMOTED eee



13-00000 ~ ~ oe

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

ee ee ae

possible, because everyane Ine gone to the sityert and the embassy bas no car,
however, possibly tonorroy noming insteai! af going to the study ofzete, she will

EUISA: To try the embassy or at the

GOCLEAS

REPRODUCTION. = ep te BO

COPY: HO} —————

_ PROHIBITED ee



13-00000

002.

029.

089.

PROMOTED ee

REPRODUCTION

x

que estd abajo, pregunta si quiere que lo llame y NICO dice
que si. Luego NILDA eda NELA (empiezan a hablar en --
e1 miimero 017). ¢ le diga a NICO ue parece que
ROLANDO salié un moxienté & leXealle, pero que regresa en se

guida.

el recado a NICO, dice yue-

era para sng tenia los paquetes des... y que su-~

piera que s' 2 RS Llevar GUILLERNO. NILDA:que le--
pregunte si ya “ss envueltos. NELA asf le hace y con-
‘testa que sf. NILDA: que estd bueno.- 029.-

Salida al bh cater te NICO solicita hablar con --
el Sr.CARMOXA. MP AE Yaiborma que ya le tiene su, juego-

de juntas, pero no tiénen los anillos. Luego Dn. FLIX

con NICO (empiez; a ncitat 9d el niim.073) para indicarle -

gerades: ae juntas, que anillos no tiene y-

e1 nimero Serine 3324 nota no encuentra que pieza es -"

que ya tieneog

porque no vione Gavel catdlogo. NICO:que mandaré pregun
tar alld para que le digan que cosa es eso;que pasard a re-
coger las juntas; pregunta si hay posibilidad de conseguir-
el juego de anillos y FLLIX dice que sf, que los puede con-
seguir en Dr.Lucio 8 y les diga que va de su parte. NICO
toma nota y acepta.- 085.-

EN

Entrada 163%.- VITOR: QNANDEZ pregunta a GUILLERNO -

RUIZ qué hay de nuave 3; @stecdice que nada, pero hoy sale -
para La Habana
habrd noticigdy
a todos al1&S” 2iokey.- 101.

de 5 dfas, por lo que ya --
HERNANDEZ acepta y pide. salude-

COLAE47

‘RePROoWeTIOng ag 8 et

COPY NO.



_  REPHODUCTIO:
PROHIBITED

on C.224.-22 nov.63).-

royunta a LEISA si ya sabe la u1ti-

13-00000. oo .
; C

rn ~

"de burla, dice "sf, claro, me en-

a KENNEDY". HF sonrie y conenta que -

eso estd yan wLjiue en principio pensaren que habfa sido —
uno de los wa veaccionarios que estaban en contra~
de la integracién y eso, pero parece que aprehendieron a un
tipo que es nada mds que el presidente de uno de los comités

del trato limpio con “uba, LVISA:yue de eso también ya

se enteré. HP rae | sodbyfa no confirman na¢ » Pero pa-

rece + que el que, ae nay hocho, estaba loco, indepen.

dientemente ‘de me bien Podta desvidrsele eso a KENNEDY
"digamos en taste Ss ¢ <a) ternacdonales y las condiciones

pues...." LUISA: y externa

més, prince: HF: por eso te digo en lo Inter-

nacional .... jodia ver bastante afectada y no pueden --

sufrir un gran cambio, con un cambio de Presidente 6 con una
cosa de ese tipo; sobre todo que.... LUISA lo interrum
pe y pregunta si era gringo el que lo maté y HF indica que-
sf, pero dajo que habia patade en Rusia, que querfa nacioria
lizarse ruso, pero que’ ey no le habfa querido dar 1a na-_
sfonalizaciém so. 5”
cémo alld sabeqedgas, garage 1 cofio t ™
que sabe rus@ muy biém-y que ademds éste tipo habfa ido con
eS ‘la sierra, 6 querfa ir, algo asf, --

WuTsa se eorprende y di “oye, --

que sf;

las fuerzas
quien sabe como. como estarfa la cosa. WISA:que -
grave. HF: bastante;pregunta qué mds ha sabido por ahi-
y LUISA dice que casi precisamente eso, que hace rato se en
teraron y ya estdn. que estd muy mal eso% que -
estaba comiendo con unos GS y comentando la Revista Po-
litic, y la cual ya pace Ry uno Llegé y les dié la --
ona

reese mirando la revista, pues -

noticia; que 61 se, pYereyS que los estaba vaci--

We
Jando. myetor

precisamentc Rites fompaero.. ++. HF.

xy

jue su --~

REPRODUCTION 8 -

cory NO.

PATE



13-00000

REPRODUCTION? ee

C C43

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

(+ C.M24.~22 nov.63).-

Bo . .
amigo comenté que“te- labia matado ul'mexicano que de repente

se habia dadpGuenta Estados Unidos nos habian qui-

vengangA maté al lresidente; que todo fud-

ae
tado Texag)y’ p:
Sen

‘@‘eyéfan hasta que les dijo que prendieran-

e1 radio; que \gs¥ lo hicieron y ahf se enteraron; que lo --
ultimo yne acaba de escuchar hace un momentito, es que ese-

LD, que se ereé que éste sea, pero no ha

tipo es un tal
confesado nada... LUISA: pero que ya saben que habl,
ruso y que pertenece al Comité pro-Cuba; que ya saben que -
el tipo querfa nacionalizarse, pero el tipo no ha confesado,

HF le dd la razén, aeres Zo podrfa ser que trataran de

que le diga.

sido 6 si ++ publica 6 que habfa sido uno -

de los segr eas 6 en contra de la intesracién los -
que habfan. asesin' BS a KENNEDY, entonces habfa digamos, po-
sibilidad de que surgiera una especie de lucha efvil.& gue-
rra civil en Estados Unidos; digamos que se agudisaran més-
las contradiceciones, la sitaacién erftica por la que pasa ~
el pais, entonces estabamos couentando aqui, que encontraran

una resolucién de ese oo ya m&s internacional; 6 -

lo-van a encontrar 6 fué-étes 0, quien sabe; pues vamos a -

ver que pasa. & SAS sor ey pregunta qué pasard. -

HF: quien sabe. ee purese’ irate, uno, dos, tres y ya,-

ya son tres lege aud. obbaros 1 HF: yo ereo que -

va a ser cl gol diR ahora en la fiesta'esa de SILVIA.

LUISA: que la suspége ron porque ellos no podfan ir. -
HF pregunta por qué y LUISA dice "para que desy;udés digan a
queestamos celebrando la muerte de KENNEDY, entonces hablamos
con SILVIX y ésta acepté suspenderla y dejarla para la sema

na que viene, pero que no co con el entierro (se rife)",

HFrque hay que tener en cyenta £80 LUISA:que serd.  -

odas\esas porquerias. -

Siiedar ahora y LUISA comenta

copy NO...

PROBED


173.

184.

188,

REPRODUCTION ove gy

- ~ REPRODUCTION
¢ -PRORIBHFED.

que ahord piensa wXarde nl para la casa de la doc

tora. Dregiints RN ya saben todo y LUISA indica
S

que si, mae esté la cosa 6 si se tendrdn que-

quedar en 12 em! , sin embargo creé que hoy no serd

posible, porque todo mundo fué para el aeropuerto y no -
tiene coche en la embajada, sin embargo posiblemente mafiana
en la mafiana en vez de ir al cf{rculo de eatudios, se mudard.
HF:que entonces le hablard mafana. LUISA:yue la procure
en la embajada 6 en la casa, ya que si no se quedan en la--
embajada, se ird para su caedijen aor donde estard como a las -
10. HF acepta.- ws 5 7

puds de dec Li né om indica que ie pasé su. recado y

URBIETA le dijo SO) Fecoraane cual era su asunto y no -~
sabfa su teléfono. DURAN: que no tiene su teléfono,pues
unicamente tiene su direccién. : LUISA pregunta cudl es-
su asunto y DURAN dice que es sobre el Mineral de RUTILO --
de parte del Ing.MONROY. LWISA: que llame mafiana. =

DURAN acepta.- 184.-

) CONCEPCION y LIISA informa --
HF:que le hablar& nds —_

___. PROWEBITED ae



13-00000

- REPRODUCTION
vs sorons — PRORIBITED

1. Transcript_of telephone He to Soviet Embassy
(15-69-49 iD PRODI
2. Transcrip NL sever Embassy

(15-69- rs ii Ronn 1963.

3. Transcrip Ae Bil el enbone call to
Soviet Consulate at 1037 hours on
27 September 1963.

4. Translation of telephone call from Soviet
Consulate to Cuban Consulate at 1626 hours
on 27 September 1963.

5. Transcript|(in Spanish) of above telephone
call.

6. Translation of telephone call from Cuban Con-
sulate to Soviet Consulate at 1605 hours on
27 September 1963.

7. Transcript (in Spanish) of above telephone
call.

8. Summary of telephone call made by Silvia DURAN
to Soviet Consulate at 1151 hours on 28 Septem-
ber 1963.

9. Transcript (in Spanish and English) of above
telephone call.

10. Telephone call made by Lee OSWALD to Soviet
Consulate on 1 October 1963.

11. MEXI-6344 (IN 38854), 1 October 1963.

12. DIR-72527, 1 October 1963.

13. MEXI-6453, 8 October 1963 [duplicate of FOIA
No. 5-1A] (from Mexico City File)

14, DIR-74830, 10 October 1963 [FOIA No. 7-2]

15. MEXI-7055, 25 November 1963 [duplicate of FOIA
No. 89-33] (from Mexico City File) Cover sheet
included,

16, | WAVE: eee of FOIA

Pity ai included (from Mexico
iy? File) |

17. MEXI- ieead ROGIER ED [duplicate of FOIA

No. 24- 54] Nol Sheet included (from Mexico
City File)

SECRET

REPRODUCTION
PRORISITED


: | * REPRODUCTION
_PRORIBITED

Ci ounttassirizp Econ” lenriat

» ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ae 5

‘SUBJECT: (Optional)

oat

Botha

ACTION COPY

Se 6TOCumEe" C] secret ] conripentiat. [] WFRNA =) UNCLASSIFIED

2b vated

=)

EPRODUCTION : ist PAE (oF 93
_ PRORIBETED - Se



2 " REPRODUCTION
PRORIBITED

TU 1304, ; . wm |
“ ‘ ( |
|

RIG: MLC, GHOADEN :
Ma CLASSIFIED MESSAGE —DATE:_26 NOVEMBER 1963

3 CHRONO (DUMMY) SSS GPIDEAL P
FANN A AB
PRIORITY ARS SS
OPERATIGNAL
es
“ww

DEFERRED

1, AT THIS MOMENT STATION OFFICER AND LOCAL SECURITY

OFFICER (WHOM HE CONTACTED) ARE INTERVIEWING NICARAGUAN
WHO CLAIMS THAT ON 18 SEPTEMBER HE SAW LEE OSWALD RECEIVE

SIX THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS IN MEETING INSIDE CUBAN

EMBASSY MEXI, me See

2, REQUEST MANA AND DIR ADVISE MEXI OPIM ANY TRACES

GILBERTO ALVARADO, BORN 31 JAN 1940 CIUDAD RAMA, CELAYA,
NICARAGUA, CLAIMS HE AWAITING FALSE MEXICAN DOCUMENTATION
PRIOR RECEIVING SABOTAGE TRAINING CUBA, SAYS JUAN LORILLO,
ROLAN ALVARADO AND CARLOS FONSECA AMADOR ARE MEMBERS HIS : i

(COMMUNIST?) ORGANIZATION NICARAGUA,

1 g 7 END FO MSG
Dur OF
AY Eh
L707
esorpmarine orricens
M.C.C. SECEET M.C.C, for W.C.C.
autlsSiSime orricen EERE Ton Mae Sncl Sites
OUTGOING

oclies.

“REPRODUCTION — |
PROBED = RR


‘SUBJECT: (Optional)

*"CY UNCLASSIFIED

“TI

DPMS “C1 conry “nial =" (Secret
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ~ Latte. 5

“NOV 25 1963 °
COMMENTS, Menber soc soma 1 show fom) whom
Wo stom. "Drow fine een colm oer Sach comment)

fe G1OLaEe* CO] secret] conFIpeNTiAL [) WPL] UNCLASSIFIED

eo)

EPRODUCTION “eocarsa

Fe cae



13-00000
(

. * REPRODUCTION
| | PROHIBIT

eee bt OF = al

DISTR:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CITE,
“WAVE S149.
——NoMSER

MEX DIR “ MEXT
‘, 2» ODFOAM ADVISED WAVE THAT PHONE CALL FROM ONE;JOSE SAN ANTONIO 7
aks IN MEXICO CITY (PHONE 186334) TO DRe EMILI: UN) PORTUONDO y
MIAMI, WAS MONITORED 24 NOVEMBER 63. CONVERSATION WAS IN SPANISH
AND GIST OF IT IS: PLAN.OF CASTRO. CARRIED: FORWARD, BOBBY IS NEXT.
SOON THE ATOMIC BOMBS WILL RAIN AND THEY wre NOT KNOW FROM WHERE.
2. . WAVE TRACES NUNEZ REVEALS: HE ‘SUBJECT 201-312304.
CABACAs HOWEVER, AMOT-2 ADVISED CABACA IS PROBABLY JOSE ine
—_——

MISAINZ, DPOB CIRCA 1918 PROVINCE LAS VILLAS, CUBA.
Y RESIDES MEXICO CITY, PO BOX 3000 AND HAS.SAME PHONE a a
NO. PARA 1 ABOVE. HE IS NOW OCCUPIED WITH OBTAINING MEXICAN VISAS b
FOR PERSONS DESIRING LEAVE CUBA. HE IS PRONOUNCED BATISTIANO
AND RIGHTIST WITH TIES TO BATISTA. GROUPS IN U.S. AND HEADS THE
ALIANZA PARA EL PROGRESS DE AMERICA.

3. LOCAL ODFOAM BEING INFORMED. RE PARA 2 INFO.

DUP o¢ ;
10{-S73
. , |

25/2335Z SE GC Behtesbron -

INCOMING

REPRODUCTION  “Gotaesa °
__ PRORIGITED . oo - ; cass 4 0F 23



- : " REPRODUCTION
ailetteD.

“"E] SECRET

OC yO cone tian
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM, ON CO
as : LUTTs
y= WHITE | ok T-

fx’ 610 “kee C] secret  (] CONFIDENTIAL [7] (AIFRMAL =] UNCLASSIFIED

Leen

CacLe ss

es)

EPRODUCTION
PRONE = nee tae

7 a



" RepRODUCTION
_ —— PRERITED

Sous 1304. ‘ (4)
on (

SRG: MM. M.GHOADEN

DATE: 25 NOVEMBER 1963
FILE: Bua: i
GPIDEAL

uSTRt = COMMO
CHRONO (DUMMY)

NuMaER

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

La
| OPERATIONAL {en
KX IMMEDIATE,

!

mwMepiaTE pir NFO. OTE ext aE ——

TO

RYBAT . ts

1, MEXI DAILY "EXCELSIOR" OF 25 NOV IMPLYING OWN INVESTIGATIONS
RAN STORY DESCRIBING OSWLAD TRIP’ TO. ‘MEXICO 26 SEPTEMBER THRU
3 OCTOBER, CROSSED BORDER AT-LAREDO, VISITED CUBAN EMBASSY

27 SEPT AND NEXT DA’ WENT TO SOVIET EMBASSY, PURPOSE

ALLEGEDLY WAS TO OBTAIN VISA GO SOVIET UNION, THIS NOT OUR LEAK.

CANNOT ELIMINATE GOBERNACION AS SOURCE. - ,
2. FYI: PRESUME HOS IS AWARE OF AP STORY DATELINED HAVA ft

7 SEPT 1963. AT RECEPTION AT BRAZILIAN EMBASSY FIDEL CASTRO

IS QUOTED; "WE ARE PREPARED TO FIGHT THEM AND ANSWER IN KIND. . '

UNITED STATES LEADERS SHOULD THINK (REFLECT?) THAT IF THEY . 2 ;

t
ARE AIDING TERRORIST PLANS TO ELIMINATE THE CUBAN LEADERS, iz
|.

THEY THEMSELVES WILL NOT BE SAFE,"

. '

3. PARA ONE STORY WENT OUT ON AP TODAY. 2 up :

: Po
END OF MSG “~ Pn i
SS Bb

COORDINATING OFFICERS
autuMinGaFine orricer nellaSiforricer
CUTEOING ;
GClissE

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBIMED : 7 face 6 oF as



13-00000 |

‘REPRODUCTION

CITE DIR

is

"ymws' sumer 6453 Be
§

LES HENRY OSWALD “(goi-2s0248) a 18 OCT 1939, NEW ORLEANS,
LOUISIANA, YORMER RADAR. OPERATOR IN UNITED STATES MARINES

“WHO DEFECTED TO USSR IN OCT 1959. OSWALD IS FIVE FEET TEN

INCHES, ONE SITY FIVE hana LIGHT BROWN WAVY Hain,

.2., oN S.0cr 1959 [HE ATTEMPTED TO RENOUNCE HIS UNTTED
STATES. CITIZENSHIP TO, THE pclae EMB IN MOSCOT,.

POSTMARKED ©

HE DESIRED ORE US°PPT “AS WISHED. TO RETURN TO USA
ilochesinabandlscicarton mama emi apaenc
4, ON 8 JULY ON EIS OWN
INITIATIVE HE AvpmaneD AT Ta ms WITa'EIS ‘wre To SEE ABOUT

ween peter
HIS RETURN TO STATES. SUBJ STATED. ‘THAT EE ACTUALLY HAD NEVER

‘TION AT (0 Qek63

(CONTINUED)

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

FoF ETGA 10 ss0anryWa

_2psnN wouinoog

Ba:
:
la
ui

4

APPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS

COORDINATING. OFFicERS
SECRET.)
nf OTHER THAN. THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. +. Copy No |

(8

Soop MELEASING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION

GOL te 57

=)

PRODUCTION |
PROMIBIED = Re


13-00000 -

REPRODUCTION.
RED

a i . CLASSIFIEQ MESSAGE 32-62

uN: Co iNoex <SERRET
eT NO INDEX =
FILE IN CSHIE NOY

DIRECTOR

WHERE, WORKED AS METAL WORKER IN RESEARCH SHOP, OSWALD WAS
MARRIED ON 30 APRIL 1961 TO MARINA NIKOLAEVNA PUSAKOVA A. ;
DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN 17 JULY 1941 USSR, NO HDQS TRACES, =.
HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE-TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE
ee ee HIS AMERICAN PPT

Tb LATEST HDQS- INFO WAS ODACID REPORT DATED way 1962,

3 “SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD I8 STILL US CITIZEN AND,

BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PEAMITS AND DEPT STATE
HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD
70 USA. :
é Q “fos se (CONTINUED)
IMATING OFFICERS

SECRET

coo!

REPRODUCTION. mess

mommy


13-00000 .

REPRODUCTION
PamnTED

CLASSIFIED < SAGE
. ~ |

1282
ROUTING

UNIT : 1D INDEX
¢ 1 NO INDEX

noe BRING DISSEMINATED

‘70 mpgs OF oumrvr, , ODOATH, AND ODURGZ. PLS KEEP
’ FURTHER CONTACTS POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION

cording to. LIENVOY 1. Oct, an American male who
jpoke broken Russian said his name Lee Oswald © -
(phonetic) stated he at. Sov Emb on 28 Sept when
spoke with Consul. He discussed sending a telegram
No Tai peeninstica ies been) sacs.

SR/CI/A/Roll (in draft) . :
¢ json/Roman (in draft) D2

Yi Gn draft) w ee

assis “> o/s
5, ADDP coonpimatina oFricens
yb arLensine oFFicen
SECRET
~N . REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN. THE-ISSt .

ccl4eS9

“REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED PACE 9 oF AF :

— Bee ee



- " Rep wODRICTUON
7 paOHTED

mei . o _ my

1 ocr 65, ANERICAN UALE-GHO SPORE EROKEN RUSSIAN SAID EIS
(esosarse), STATED TE 4 Sora oF 28 seen vant SPORE wt

GUARD IVAN OBYEDKOV WHO NEW RE TELEGRAM: TO _

nee SHY?
WASHINGTON. OBYEDKOV . z RECEIVED YEP, BUT REQUEST

ee
HAD BEN SENT.

2. HAVES PHOTOS MALE APPEARS BE AMERICAN ENTERING SOVEMB 1216 HOURS,
LEAVING 1202 GN 1 OCT. APPARENT AGE 35, ATHLETIC BUILD, CIRCA 6 FEEr, RECEDING |”
HATHEIVE, BALDING TOP, WORE KHAKIS AND SPORT SHIRT. SOURCE: LIBQEry.

3. NO LOCAL DISSEM.

DUP OF

-|-A

coonomarine orncens 1
I .
LADILLEIGER . SECRET WCCURTIS {
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER ‘CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING fee

‘REPRODUCTION eure
__PRORISITED | a



| ‘sane

neo poe
EXT WAVE CARA 7 2 5 2 7

PERUMEN C/S COMMENT: °RE CUBAN EXILE GULIC LA!
wont Sf 4 WA FOF OPS ACAINST CA
REF: MEXI 630i (IN 26175) wz acvice PE A

|
i

1. BASIC EQS POSITION. IS. TO RENDER ASSISTANCE ANY waives tlc

GROUP CARRYING FIGHT TO CASTRO.

PROCUREMENT AS
TORSO, WHILE OBVIOUSLY DO NOT WISH LAVS L-2 INVOLVED IN ANY OVitT
PERILS ACTIVITY, THERE NO ODJECTION L-2 RENDZRING PURELY COVERT
ASSISTANCE PROVIDED DOES NOT JEGPARVIZE HIS OFS UTILITY. Acco
LANIER CONTACT BS MALUTAINED AND UGS RPT ADVISED,

2. JULIO LANIER MEVIA JAS GHS C7 CRIGINAL Moemees ELec pRo-uNIDA

CUBANA EI EMILIO (FERICO) FOS FS 3083. IIFIALLT HELD PoOITICN

- AS OCORETARY FoR PRoFESsIoNS. Gen 0235, mc LITAIIL-4), NO

JURE FALLS IN THIS CATEGORY asd CS

INTERESTED 1h EFEECT

AS RECEIVING DETALLS

CLO BAT 1 aw Secrwsegeemn formas case ) CF ECL DAVE

Pale JOTTTLT ATID DIECUISIGNS WIT

Seas. 7 RCSIES TERE TAT com
3 CUA APFOMIS ALB ADLATID. ao .
pe til, os ds 3 ! °

was.

dence enttteninen eeeentnn bn e othe ia htesie Sale tite ls wa

~~ "GCLFEL

[a



" RREPRODINCTIOR

2
me. C1/0A, Ry OP 2, RFAIRC .

RY
8? ORE T 0118312 —— . .

DIR CITE HEXI 6344 anf
BULK MATERIALS UNDER 7H 251905, POUCH
BER TO SE MELD IN REGISTRY UNTIé PICKED UP SY
SENTLY TDY Nos. a OE?

4083, PCUCHED ONE

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED



It

mrp 8
SEAT | REPRONMETION

128. Ae
2OBYs
“OBR:
1355. - (previous x prénseribed) AO
SS
+ 140. ‘ (previously transcribed)
151. z In at 248 (7) Mo / the seme Person who phaned 8 day or so

ago and spoke in. ecicen Russian/ spesks to EYED,
Hello, this. Lee _osatD (phon) speaking. I_was st your place

of that consul.

KOSTIKOV. He 1s dork /netr or skin?/.

Yes. My name is OSWALD.

Just a minute I'll find out. They say that they haventt

received anything yet.

Have they done anything?

Yes, they say thet a request has been sent out, but nothing
hes been received as yet. ~ :

And what...?- hore hengs up/.

2h. | nr transcribed) .

Lsiicane Entrar 15-60-55
/ Ociften [703
2.34- H§-TI32

09721 ~ 1/320 .

women, IE 7



Fees 5 ao sDo you spesk Russisn? Yes. Why don’t you talk to him?s/

Sere xX

—_Premerre

( SECRET

_— ian

li envoy $ abra a : 3 ma < comerit:
28 SET, 1953 en espafiol que le pudteron telefono ai APARICIO y'tp apunta, que
es ol 14-12-99——— 23 SILVIA le dice, sobre el ciidadadane’
156055 — norteanericano xq 8 va a hablar.—— 232—— 235-|HP habla.
RUSO, HD 1e habla en [NGLES.—— SIGUEN LOS Dos Bx ay Bizs,—-2hi—=
7 15) brs. Q
208. /Plesae see the Sjentsn wri wo Sat ire
jokgrounds He ssid wait

spesks in English jto someone in the b:

- TE dontt: inow.<(/#0 Yokes the phone snd says in broken Russiey,
‘I wes in your Embassy end spoke to your consul. Just a minut

* MI takes the Phone and ssks MO in English what does he want?

MO: = /in Russisn/ Plesse spesk Russton.

MI: Wast else do you want?

MO: I was just now at your Embassy and they took my address *

MI: IT know that.

MO: Japesks terrible, hsrdly recognizable Russ‘: did not

know it then. I went to the'Cubsn Embassy to ask them for
—Se

my address, because they have it..

not far from the, Cuben Embassy.
MO: Well, I'11 be there right awey.

REPRODUCTION wire 2 7°78



13,00000

REPRODUCTION
- * BRORIBETEDS—

SS

» iis) hours.

28 September 1963 (Saturday

Silvia DURAN ealye tie ussR Embassy and talks to an unidentified

Soviet. She sis’ phat in: ‘the BL Embassy there is a North,
American who was at “eed Ssoveee Embassy. The Soviet says wait a

minute. Silvia DURAN speaks English with someone - and comments
in Spanish that they gave APARICIO telephone 14-12-99 and to take
the number down - Silvia DURAN then says the American citizen is
going to talk with you, i.e., the Soviet. The American first
speaks Russian and the Soviet speaks English. They continue in
English. The American talks broken Russian and says I was in

your Embassy and spoke to your Consul. Just a minute. A Soviet

takes the phone’ and asks. the-American in English what does he want?
The American says please~ dpeak Russian. The Russian says what. else
¢ do you want? The American says I was just now et your Embassy and
they took my address. The Soviet says 1 know that. The American,
in hardly recognizable Russian, says I did not know it then. I
went to the Cuban Embassy to ask them for my address, because they
have it. The Soviet says. why don't you coge again and eave your
address with us, it is not far from the Cuban Embassy. The Ameri-

can says I'll be there right away.

HSCR
F.

OCCLFES

REPRODUCTION
PROAISITED : ; fate ist oF a3

moo



Oebakl : : _

7 REPRODUCTION

bog PRONIGITED
=
: 2 SS .
ssq- . Sdfrautade de Cuba, fice
ye am ‘eiudadade Americar que fue a solicitar una vibe pars cab
/; en Trénsito po:
Lien quion habia hablnde po:
da rusa diciendole que cl ellos le hacian o aceptaban la visa
27 SET 1963 que entonces ellos les ctbanoe tambien se la daban sin ms —
trowites nadacas avisande|: Prdzeacién en Cuba, y quiore saber
1560 55 son quien nabié porque et bs, que ne sie taspece con ‘que S

persona y quo le @ijeron «ix 64 que no tenia problera. BD le
pide espare un meuonte. Jw ‘10 NF es SILVIA DURAN del
Censulade da Cuba y exslibal }o mismo a otro WD. Bete la dico
que le dejo su telefono y 3: \noubro para que despuos le Lanen.
SILVIA se lo proporeiona aus a0 ef telefono 11-28-47.— 7 que
aprovochh cone cosa personal de qua ella se cawbio de domicilic
y no ha pedide avisur zara que! ly onvien e2 boletin.y quo ahora
se 1a pucde daz. ID) le pide quijitamo a KOUKNARONKO para que le
9 ce canble, 7 pide le de ol nfubre de 1a Consojero o Agrogzdo
~ . Culimal, SILVIA dice que se Liam TORTSA PROBHZA ¥ ‘To 7 tie
al 14-13-26. MD que cracias.— 535

GOCLFES. fu
"REPRODUCTION ser
homer



seen —>-——_

ePuODUCTICN
po? prOUaITe

27 soptionbro 63.-
134-N8.-T126-
0900-2114 hrs.-

392--. HD que no estd que

<S)
ID le pide espere UX Hemento. 38
Llame como a las cinco de 1a tarde.-- 394——
a 6035 [tr s

—_—
Entrada.- If del Consulado de Cuba, dice que esta allf ..
es

e+ un ciudadado Anericano que fue a solicitar una visa para Cub:
quien habia hablado porgue. lla lo.mandé con elios-de la Embaja-
da rusa diciendole gue. si ‘eltes ie hdéian 0 aceptaban la visa
que entonces ellos tos) cubanos’ tambien se 1a daban sin mas -

Pavisando. 3 Emigracién en Cuba, y quiere saber

tramites nadamay
con quien halL& poraue: oh “dice ‘que no sabe ‘tampoco con que ="
persona y Che dijaxron que, si que no tenia problema. BD le
pide éespere un money. 02 4Ob—— 410-— MF os SILVIA DURAN del
Consulado de. Cuba y explica lo mismo a otro HD. Este le dice -
que le deje su telefono y su nombre para que despues le, Llamen.
SILVIA se lo proporciona asi como el telefono 11~28-47.— Y. que
@provechh como cosa: personal de que ella se cambio de. domicilio
y no ha podido avisar para que le envien ol boletin y que ahora
se la puede dar. HD le pide lame a KOUKHARENKO para que le.
de su cambio, y pide le de ¢i Hombre de la Consejorc o Agregadc
- Guldual., SILVIA dice que. 36 Jiama THRESA PROENZA y Je lianan -

ARANA le

fama o a las 12. ARANA pregunta cual
es el nombre de HD. Est, reegtites y le dice que espere un
G83 en la Embajada. ARANA dice

Clic E9 SIULTS y-dice qu

GF -— SIGUE CON SU

REPRODUCSiaR

lesquina con Lo:

= PROMBIFED



13-00009 +.

po
sede 15-05 REPRODUCTION:
Beare. | PROSITE

ph.

395- (060-9 ru.. ov. - From the Cuban Consulate- Seys thet there is an

(J MBpisan hare who bas recussted visa For Cua because
goin: to the USSI 4 with whom ne (anerkcan)

spoke at the Soviet Imba: Sy had sent him over to:
+ . | then thinking that if ia Le

the visa then th Cubans
processing - only advising the

Ennigration of Cuba. ‘"

spoke sincs he himsal

mow *ith whom he (imerican)
doen't kiewp’either and he was told thit trere
uere no problensa\ I~ asks\thet OV. wait a minute. bob— 410
OV is SILVIA BORE of the: Cuban Consulate and explains the sama to

the other IKQ. Mts one te}7S her to Jeave her nama and number so
i!) ga he can calivher,<'SHRIA gives it to him alotig with the tel, mum.
221-28-47.- Silvia ‘év8"as a personal thing thet she has moved and
‘that” she ‘has not si about her changezof address ani will not
ireceiv the Bulletin and sha can advise then nou. ‘IV. asks that she
call KOUKHARZSKO in order to change the address, and then asks for
the of the Cultural Attache. SILVIA says it 4s TERESA PROZUZA

vhose nusber ts 1413-26. IV. thanks har. 1135 +
i an
+

t
ieee BA



13-00000 |

ie i
295-

Lievoy
27 SET. 1963

_—_—,

15 6159

men ere

ai ha ido alla role angricane.. STLVZ} que at, rs ae aint oath f)

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED ——_——SHMET. Conor eras

ot ‘SECRET ‘REP eODY TI@e-

“qu 203 uisabeé doi con\uiado en -

ston respecte a sit promabe, pero. oso
sega los tr&uite USSipan toa cuatzo o ainoo! *pabes pero sin
tenor ese pernizo|do In URSS doben de preguntas y mas bien no
se le puede dapac\y aquf el visade sin pre:umtarie a Vashingto:
in tostrd ine exrta en que_as_un mlenbro
do Guba y ha dicho que ellos lee
flo cl vinade sin el visade ruse y ahora
HD no sabe quo heeer con al,

tacién via %

pero sori este seh

Subanos no pueden

orgie deben de esperar 1a contes-
eLic
2 genege = nadie on Cuba y ontonces at
as asi.es my aarici eo e“ah) 1a visa, porque el pensaba
tramitar su visu ce GUL ya sabia que_se iba a targar
mucho en_ espe: vied ‘ude on Cuba y ya de alld ‘irse a
Ia URSS. ID a Se cue si sv espusa oath ahorita on -
Vashington. ya_ ret shorita el viszdo o ermiso de la

S pura regresar avin mtria, ella va a recibir ou visode on
Washington pero tendendé ese viendo ella potrian commicarle
a cualquier Ingar ese pyredse por ejomplo aqui o.en cualquisr
ctra parte lo puedu veefpir, pero shorita no las tienen, SILVIA
eue clere y que tamtoce ce le puede dar una carta porque no

fon, porque al pro-
Diena de al, es que ele

satun sf ou visa seré epriva®e ID que elles solo deran el viss-
dencionce,NGaRVIN que ontonces esc nendrf en su

Jo serfn las

«. nalestia. cnr nasi
&

- 3l--



13-00000

RR IIETTOR
“6 PROMIBITED .

IV - inside voice. .

23213528

OV - outside ‘voice.

71

-\
=
288-. Out to 14-19.26.- (1625 hrs)- (cuban Znbassy) IV. — asks" the
number’ of the Cuban Consul. W. - “It's —11-28-47.-- 294—
ia i
295- + Out to 11-gQ¥7.-(1626 inrs)- IV acks SILVIA 4f the American
ty has' been there. 2 Says yes, ke is here now. IV.— According
f Hl to the letter: % showed from the Consulate in Zashington he

stay for a long tine vith his wife who is
received the answer from aastington con-
fonsidering the processing it will take 4
at permission of the USSR they have to request...
visa can't be civen here without asking #ashington.
fis man, he belongs to an organization in favor of
aid that the Cubans can't rive him a visa without the
I don't know what to do with him. I have to wait for
i the answe' #ashington. SILVIA - He have to wait also because his
iproblem is that he knows no one in Cuba and it's dificalt to obtaina ~-
ivisa in these conditions. He ezpacted to process the visa. He knsv it
!would take long to process the fussian visa and would wait ‘for it in |
'Cuba and leave from there.for the USSR. IV. ~ The thing is thst if his
wife is-nov in “ashington she will reczive the visa for returing to -
iRussia. She will receive the visa in #ashington and having the visa
! ‘she can sent it to any place ‘or eyample here or any other plice but
| | (| yight now she doesn't have it. SILVIA ~ Nati » and we can't give
hin a letter of recommendation because xe doy if his visa will
be approved. IV. - %e will only give the -v: ording to indications.
| (antruetions). SILVIA. - Then that is wha’
| IV.- We can't give hima letter of rec;

 Ithank you very much.—
—331— | i

|
|
|
|
|
I

0001870 : a oo A

cD a re
— PRORIBITED Booaaree



a

EXDAJADA RUSA.- 15-60-55.-
27 septicrtare 63.- .

L34-1i8.-T128- *
0900-2114 hrs.-

esta.

HF que nocestta avons » visas para ae a.Odesa. ‘> que .

llame a las once y medid. HF que nasta que horas. HD le cuelga.

~~ 78--

79-

85-
» -- la

90-

93-

Ruso dice que
ANDRESCO. ID q

98-

oodis71

iperes- ALY S
~
fotostatx ie 1 deletes del pasaje en el KALONIA y

some

fav

_._ PROMBMED

MARISCAL TITO ah’
7 de octubre x

Entrada.
maestra-- ¢

siizda al 45-37-72.- 4
ALATRIS7S dice a SAN no

rinne Llos.

deGHE! n _
a» REPRODUCTION
br PRORIEITED

a jador. HD que espere un —
sobre la dnvitacién para el

235 Brel (Colonial Amorica) «=

estan‘en 1a Enbajada Rusa x

SAMOMAN que si, que solo le pres.

los bolctos unos 15 minutos para que mandon sacar las .

SEGRET -

wo S OB PA
ae

HD en Ruso.—

os ya} pees ionpo, que entonces a ver si les hac:



ee wo SECRET © aaa
| EPAODUCTION
"RUSSIAN EMBASSY. 15-69-87 6 PROMI i ED.

1 October 63
126-M26-T129
1031 - 2002

45. N. In st 1051. ¥o broken Russien.

Saturday and I talked to

MO: . Hellow. I wage

your consuiQady
shington, snd Wentea to ssk you if thers is onything » new?

shey'd send s telegram to Wa-

MI: I'd lixe to ask you to call another phone number.

Moz Please.
t MIs Please write it down;
MO; Thenk you.
MIs Please.

oeeeniecanmnrirstaerster nec spestaeatiate: ye

i
i
{
i
i
i

ce CLET2

REFRODUC TINY



E gepper

¢ r oS
REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED.

RUSSI!~ .

B Octes.. 95

3X asve tc get a pencil te

io the View taere?

BS a
scat Geponds oa\gour conversation, < dou: know . ..t this

business. ....20 Gall ths office of the consul am =s3k your
questics. 7
fask. .. ker of tho .:. . > again/. ~
/gives nin the number ond teli. .x to esk for the Consul. of
the Soviet Exbessy in Momteake .

Moz Thank...

165. [Pied s60 Wintionf.. the only inglish “

u-. in this ..°ry to remember... .-- to reca

Horo is the co if tho names in the Spani.- sransertp

tion: VLADIMIR KONSTANTINOVICH XOKINAKI ard TAT*: ‘ ‘SHENKO/.

GOOLE. 3°

“femaonenn
" PROWIBITED

eee eee eects: ——— __» Rabe 23 OF 23
nee

ee

