104-10105-10271 [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }

EL: UNCLASSIFED oO” oy Dy conri( atta secret
ce ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET : RETURN TO CIA
a Do Not Reproduce :

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Seymour R. Bolten
2E 14 ote 19 September 1974

CAC arbeteaa ennauandan al | COMMENTS (ember eech cones! 19 thew fom whom
Fo!

fo whom. Draw @ line across column after each comment)
Mr. John Morrison bd
occ 7D 01

ar ool
,

1. Attached is an ad-
lvance@ informal copy of our
iproposed security deletions
land revisions of the Hunt-
_|galley proof. Please note
that this list has.not yet
lbeen reviewed by Mr. Blee
land is,..therefore,: still -
subject to change.

2. The DDO panel that
reviewed the Hunt manuscript
Ihas designated items, numbered
42, 14, 19, 21, 24 and 25, as
"hard core," by which we mean
that the Agency should insist
lon their deletion or revision
land be prepared to obtain an

ee
injunction and engage in
litigation should Hunt refuse
a

T to cooperate.

[ 4 Seymour R. Bolten

SAB/DDO

ar Glo Messe" C] secrer ORY CONFIDENTIAL] Wedaty —]_ UNCLASSIFIED


7 4 CONFIDENTIAL

a

. s

°

SUBJECT: Manuscript and Galley Proof of Undercover:
Memoirs of an American Agent by E. Howard Hunt

NOTES: A. Pages. and lines underlined
and appearing at the begin-
7 : i ning of the items below

refer to the galley proof.

B. Corresponding page and line
listings as they appear in -
the manuscript are provided :
in brackets at the end of (
each item.’ : ;

.

' 1. age 57, line,6 from bottom of page; the name
Mr. | retired under cover and his past
aay relationship should not exposed. It is also recommended

removed from the same sentence containing Mr. name.

that efforts be made to have the name "John a also
(Page 96, line 17.)

2. Page 59, line 38 beginning with "However" and_endin :
on page 60, Line 2 wit milieu". utherford T. “Pinky” Walsh \Q
Setized andor cover and his CIA relationship should not be, 4
exposed. His assignment in, [SEE EESTS STTET >)
UD

similarly classified. The description of this activity just’ *
a couple of pages before the author gratuitously mentions the’,

of an agreement between the Agency and the 7
(Item 4 below) is potentially
an additionally damaging blow to liaison relationships. (Page
100, lines 10-14.)

CONFIDENTIAL ‘ell

4


. Guieiiseeeehcetni 2a 3 8.ai, at 78 Seemann!
: a aes «3 : : ‘VO
_. ° 3. Page 63, line 21; the name frrcank Holcomb")
Mr. Holcomb retired under cover and Wis past relationship

with.the CIA should not be exposed. It is additionally

recommended that the entire paragraph wherein Mr. Holcomb 's.

name appears (lines 21-24) should be deleted because it ac-
knowledges CIA operations in support of anti-communist political
operations in Italy. (page 105, lines 18-21.) R

4. - Page 63, line 30 beginning with- "By" and ending with
“arrangement"™ on iine 33, page 63. it is recommended that this
passage be deleted since its inclusion not only is not pertinent

gto the narrative but it unnecessarily jars.iaison with the
f and is an implied insult to the liaison services.
(page 106, lines 4-7.)

5. Page 66 beginning with "Finis" on line 24 and ending
with "worid" on line : is passage describes a specific CIA
operation which resulted in the production and distribution of
an animated cartoon based on George Orwell's Animal Farm.
(Page 111, lines 6-9.) : 2 : X
wy
6. Page 68, the pseudonym "John F. Rittenhouse" on line 34. oR «
The author's original CIA pseudonym was classified, and even wy anhé
though compromised, never appeared in the press and still exists © fis
on various currently classified documents. (page 114, line 23.) “3h

)

! : 7. Page 71, beginning with "Spanish" on line 28 and ending
with "America™ on line 20, page 72, and including the footnotes
ee on pages 71 and 72. This pass should be deleted because it
| describes the Agency's role inf
4 "El Campesino's" book, Life and Death in the USSR.

(pages 120 [lines 4-20, including footnote] - 121 [lines 1-16,
including footnote.])

8. Page 72 beginning with "Budocia" on line 21 and-ending
with "Scribner's" on line 32. This should be dele
it describes the Agency's role in the ransiatigny, PY
of Eudocio Ravines' book, The Yenan Way. It
also describes William Buckley's role in that operation asa.
CIA officer. (Page 121, lines 17-23 and page 122, lines 1-6.)

9. Page 73 beginning with "Mexican" on line 5 through
“Rivera” on line 8. This should be deleted because it not only
describes sources and methods but also identifies a specific
CIA operation. (Page 122, lines 19-21 and page 123, line 1.)



OU PLC AL
6

ye
10. Page 73 beginning with "Communism" on line 14 and
ending with “reputation” on line 15. This passage could serve

to identity a former asset in Mexico who is still living. (Page|
123, lines 7-8.)

’
ll. Page 73 beginning with "cover" on line 17 through

" tegend"' on line 19. This should be deleted because it identifies. )\

a ClA-sponsored cover arrangement in Bangkok. Furthermore, thi \)

particular type of cover, the movie industry, has figured in

earlier unfavorable publicity to CIA in other Southeast Asian

countries and thus serves to further render suspect the use of

such cover in still other areas. (Page 123, lines 10-12.)

12. Page 73 beginning with "planned" on line 22 through
"authe on Jine : of page 74 and including the footnote on
page 74. This shou elete ecause it describes,a specific
Operation involving the forgery of a page of the

and also includes descriptions of. sources and methods. Page’ 123,
lines 15-23 and all of page 124 including footnote~-)

13. Page 77 beginning with "technical" on zine 19 through >
“station” on line 21. This should be deleted because it describes
and authenticates a CIA operation. (Page 131, lines 2-4.)

vo 14. Page 80 beginning with "surreptitious-entry" on line 9
1 Ptpough "Embassy" on line 12, page 82. This should be deleted

=F ‘because Ht describes a specific, sénsitive operation as well as.y
itive sources and methods including [eee

5 i (Page 136, line 3 through page , Line yl

15. Page 86 beginning with "Greek" on line 18 through

“countries” on line 20. This should be deleted because jit

Tdentifies a specific operation and the foreign assets involved
in its support. (Page 147, lines 6-8.)

16. Page 95 beginning with wquasi-mil itary on line 11 ~e
s.
t

through "East on line 16. This should be deleted because it
describes various cover and support facilities used in Far Eas
Asian countries. (Page 163, lines 6-11.)

17. Page 95 beginning with "Hong Kong" on line 16 through
"Branch" on line 19. This should be deleted because it describes
ration conducted ie

against mainland China and as sucn 1s not only —
damaging to current American detente efforts but is particularly
menacing to Hong Kong authorities in view of their proximity and
susceptibility to potential Chinese retaliatory pressures. (Page
163, lines 11-14.) : :

: | on a Ke oS

LOM

a
; CONFIDENTIAL ~~ Es



OB ereryess

_. » 18. Page 99 beginning with "disrupting" on line 5 through ¥ ae
"display" on line 27 and including the footnoteon page 99. py
- . Phis passage describes specific CIA operations

(Page 169 line 23 through“page 170, line 22,»

including £o0tnote.) 7
ky ae
Coe 19. Page 102 beginning with "Despite" on line

'YW'returned" on line 10. This should be deleted becaus
S a Specific and sensitive CIA operation inclu
(Page 175, lines 10-15.)

5 20. Page 105 beginning with "wiretap" on ne 6
“surreptitious-entry” on line 7. Ought to be te

refers to sensitive Agency sources and methodg.

ines 2-3.)
Vi 21.
"Embassy" on line 7, page 109. This passage dea
With various operational proposals, activities inc
recruitment of an identifiable individual, as well/a@s with

sensitive methods of operation, e.g., surveillancg te
(Page 187, lines 6-24 through page 188, lines 1-15.)

22. Page 109 beginning with "FBI" on ljne 21 through
"station" on line e operatio! Describes an
Operation which began with the FBI's spotting Xf a possible
Soviet intelligence agent. Since this informAt\on was then
ay turned over to the Agency, a question arises /conkerning the
need to seek the FBI's prior comments. (Page 189%, lines 6-11.)

23. ‘Page 111 beginning with "The" on line 22 through
"triumvirate" on line 25. It would seem\that an effort ought
to be made to have this passage deleted ok ¢hanged since itsoy «

amage potential. to r g
is considerable, and it does jeop ize the current We

careers and livelihoods of the Agency's contacts. who are re-

ferred to by date and position and thus, ¢re entifiable.

(Page 192, lines 21-22.)

J 24. Page 115 beginning with "I" on line 23 through
“department” on line 35. This passage should be deleted .
because it describes Agency methods of operation --- acquisi-
tion and passage of information to and from a liaison service ---

as well as an overall Agency activities oy
within Uruguay involving the * :
*, Page 200, lines 6-18.

¢ CONFIDEN



io i : we Ane

_ UNPIUCINGIA..
IN
25. Page 116 beginning with "technical" on line 10

through "secrets" on line 29. This passage should be deleted
Bcalse it descripes a Sensitive operation conducted

(Page 201, lines 12-23 and page 202, Eanes 1-9.) 24 Vv

26. Page 122 beginning with "The" On line 8 Saartey
“Djilas" on line 9. This passage should be deleted b
attests to the Agency's subsidization of publicati

book. In addition an effort ought to bé.made to h
remove or appropriately alter the rest of the. para

National Press Building". (Page 211, line 4.)

line 31.
this passage in order that they be made aware of i
interpretations. (Page 212, lines 4-5.
28. Page 123 beginning with "Soon'\6n line 12 through
"Madrid" on line 35. This passage deal ith the author's work a]
on several “Peter Ward" books and, later, \his assignment to ]
Madrid. It is recommended that 0GC's/attention be called to
this passage. (Page 212, last line Yhrough page 213, lines 1-23.)

on ast line through
“This passage should be deleted

i A officer,
J as well
is involvement in the compilation of ,a c assified “encyclopedic
study" are unwarranted disclosures of Agency ethods. (Page 219,
lines 8-13.)

30. Page 130 beginning with "Free" on Tine 20 through "CIA"
on line 21. This phrase shou e delete cause it could serve
to affect i principals /oX the Free Cuba

Committee, a former witting contact, who
is now employed by the State Départment. (rage\s 225, lines 10-11.)

29. Page 126 beginning with 'Chief'
"officers" on page 127, line 5.
because it specifies the classi:

It would appear

31. Page 150, all of lines 14 throughNi6.
that this escription o of the author's contact wit
Malloy of CIA is very unfair to the latter. I
Hunt had a special relationship with Dr. Malloyfand an effort
ought to be made by OGC to have the author rewyite this version
in order to reflect Dr. Malloy's true role in Ahis\ affair.

Page 260, lines 22-23 through page 261, lines 4- ya y

7 5
CONRATN THA
Cys


CONFIDENT

32. Page 220, lines 5 through 10. This passage concern-
ing the use of CIA alias documentation by Hunt and others in-
cludes loose language which implies that still another set of
documents was prepared by the CIA for Hunt's use --- i.e., a

set of documents which was not mentioned-during the recent ”
Congressional "Watergate hearings". As such this is misleading
and could serve to create additional difficulties for the Agency.
It is recommended that the OGC make an effort to have the author
rewrite this paragraph in order that this potentially damaging
language be removed from his manuscript. (Page 387, lines 4-9.)

