# 104-10185-10114

## Page 1

-Q000o

104-10185-10114

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

NO FORLIGY DISSE!

COUNTrY Cüba

SUBIECT RAMITO RODRIGUEZ GONOZ

REPORT NO. CSCI-315/00695-64

DATE DiSTR. 25 AUgUSE 1964

NO. PAGES 3

REFERENCES

DAIS OF

1964

INFO.

PLICE & Washington,

D.

DATE ACQ. AUgUSI

c.

19G4

FIELD • REPORT NO.

Tr. S 1S UNEVALLATED

INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS AÑE DEFINITIVE: APIRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTÁTIVE.

"SOURCE:

A forzer Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban.

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

TO CIA 1

Background Use Only:

Do Not Reproduce

Headguarters Comments:

The following report is ano of a sorles containing personality

Information provided by the sourco and includes suppleuental

informacion from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the adáressces take no action on any

of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports

without fiust checking with this Agency.

Ramiro RODRIGUEZ GoMez is the Chief of the Direccion

Inteligencia (Genoral Directorate of Intelligence -

DGI) in Brazzl.

could provido no additional

Headguartors Conments

1.

Agency obtained the following

Cuban Service]

The laich Industry Workers' Union, prior to 1951,

was in the hands of the Communists with Raniro RODRIGUEZ

Gomez as Secretary General; since 1952, it has been

controlled by the Progressive Labor bloc.

Source said

that RODRIGUEz, an active Party member and direcior or

:..e Comite de Lucho, vas a former candidate for

councilman

¡or the Partido Socialista Popular. (PSP). He has not

been admitted into the union.

-S

4

3

2

5

STATE

REP CI:CLAYT

¡voie: Field distribution indicaiad by "=".)

AE7SA/EOR

1 12/5/R

H/SA/103 1

IN/SACIA

-2.6 MAR 19652

*/SA 7 (1),

Fares No.

NAVY

CINCSO =

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

1 A:2

I NSA

I&N'S

Frain

LICILIA

CI/RIA

I'TE CANDAL

S'IETRITISUL

L/SiSU(BRL2

NEl (2), CI 1, RID 1

LIAisoN; *

201-331829

!OCR

sorianesis

I FBI 2

LBRETTE44-2191

10 PROJECT (AJ1CG/1

CSCI-316/00695-6-1

'ENININTING

Kurg

:LD: sik

CI/RüL

4/PV

---

## Page 2

•i usually raliable source,

in a réport dared 2 Karch 195 ruported

012

the travel of Cubiis

througli Rio de Jaiciro curing Jovember

and December 196l. Included on the list was Ramiro RODRiGueZ

Gonce ula arrived fros Haina on 27 Novcaber 1S01.

He:carried

Dahlomatic Passport dunher 270

cel visa nueber D-d07 issued in

trabilla

ori 27 December

1961. His

date ani place of birth were

given as l1 darc

192S,

1a Habana.

3. A usually reliable source, In a report dated 23 April 1962,

I StaTed

that Raniro RODRIGUEZ Gusez was the First Secretary of the Cuban

Embassy in Rio de

Janeiro.

4.

5:

In August 1962, reported that Raniro RODRIGUEZ,

who arrived' in Brazil

on 2S December 1961, as First Secretary

was formerly the First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Verezuela

and was identified as a G-2 agent there.

He was Secretary General of the latch industry

korkers* Union before 1961, at a time when it was in the hands

of the Communists.

In a report dated 20 December 1962, a fairly reliable source gave

the following Information on Raniro RODRIGUEZ, Charge d'Affaires

of the Cuban Embassy la Rio de Janeiro. He is about five feet v

eight inches tall, 150 pounds, has a small mustache,

black hair

a swarthy couplexion, dresses well, is very poised socially,

bas a quick mind and is rather introverted. He was born about

6.

An

in a report dated 2S December 1962,

said

that Paniro RODRIGUE? Gomez is

suspected Cuban intelligence.

Since December 1961, he has been the First Secretary at the

Cuban Embassy in Rio dé Janeiro.

He was formerly the First

Secretary

at the Cuban Eubassy in Caracas

and was said to

head

of G-2 there and responsible for

organizing the November

1961 attacks

In a report dated June 1953 an unknown source said that his

assistant wes told by Raniro RODRIGUEZ thit there would be almost

a complete changeover of personnel shortly; he added that only

Attache, - Camilo DOMENECH Gadea, would not be

returning soon to Cuba.

8. It was reported in August 1963, that Ramiro RODRIGUZZ, former

Charge d'Affaires of the Cuban

babassy in sio de Janeiro, vas

still

in Rio de Janeiro; apparently he had not completely briefed

the new ambassador..

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSES!

---

## Page 3

14-00000

9.

'i cdily'draule source, in a report datod 2 January 1954,

siriod. tist

RandO RODRIGUEL Gonez, Fiist Sccretary

of the

—bas in Alo ae Janeiro,

departed fio de Janciro on

is

august

1ios, -for cuba and l'eturned

to Rio de Janciro on

2j November

Souice observed that RODRIGuez has bein

since his return and is rude to his former

including Nivea BRASIL, wife of the Communist,

colonei

jocelyn

BASIL.

RODRIGUEZ and drs. BRiSIL were on

"cry intimate

texas (according to source,

adulterous;, but.

nogaiguez spurns her attempts at being chummy again.

Source

feeis thai RidiIGueZ is up to sonething snecial and notes

that he is

ciose contaci with Coneral Luiz Gonzaga LEITE,

the organizor

of the Cuba Solidarity Congress.

LODRIGUEZ'

According

file card in the protocol Division of the:

nave

one

daughter, Eva RODRIGUEZ Dosinguez, who was born

about 1950.

NO

E

CR

FOREIGN DISSEM

---

