[104-10210-10004| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Uh A

cea beaaba nts,

US Merso Nos 632
28 Jenuary 1964 . .

MEMONABLUN FOR: chief, sp/ct
ame TF Ae Ae -
AQECATICR Mg. ‘Duncen
fs 3 “+ Goviet Documentetion infornstion Ceneerning OVIR i
(¥Viea om? registration fection) a? M/D ia the i
‘ Fall of 1959 - Care 439) :

TORE 1 Your cra? request for TSD/S fupport on 42
Decender 1563 :

1. This mesorents confines the information peased vervally
to Hr. Stevart of R/CI by Hr. Sovanke of TeE/Mb on 32 Docea ver
1663. ‘Bee information consisted of TSh/TS coments on gitctions t
preesnted by Hr. Stewart in his verbal request on 30 December 163. :
The attachment includes edditicnal inforuetioa on OVIR orgentzntioa, i
subordination, and Cmetions os related to ‘ts control over fore!gn-
era visiting the USK, Primary attention will be given the period
(fel1 1959) concerned in the request.

2. Please eign the attached or: Tequest For TSD/DB {
Support Fors (D-105) end retura to TOD, :

3. If TD corusents are being comidered for further distri-
bution, it is requested that the trenm!tting correspeatence"be
coordinated with this office.

i : kh, pny quections on thin mtter can be referred to Messrs.
i i Bowenko ar Bugel, extengicn 2654, 221 vest Out Ballding.

~ . ALIS R. ‘ZROCTORAS
Chief, 70/18

Attachment: as ctated
Motributica:
Originnl & 1 ~ Addressee pulse

1 - mB File, 2. - 1B
1- bE Fite, (d- fase 1390



seraipnnbamtsrenona vos Mitch tort comrnmnsArenircaerseckefatmene sien sieantehi mba tate

t

‘TSD COM@Stra 0% OVIR (VISA AND REGIBERATION POCTION) OF TIE USSR

Your opecifie questions are angvereé Lelov with additional inform-
tion related to esch questica.

Qrction A. whet te OVIR?

Anever - OVIR 1s the ebbreviation for OTDEL VIZ 1 FEOISTRATEIY
(isa ond Yegistretion fection) vhich in 1955 vas subordinate

to the Main Adnuintstration of Militia, HVD (}imistry. of Internal
Affairs) ca the AL-thion level and to efther tho Ut (Upravleniye
wilitei1) or UYD (Vpravleniye Vuutrenaikh tel) on Nepublic,
Cbdlast or City level. ‘the MVD ves replaced by MOP (-nistries
for the Protection of Publie Order) in the latter part of August:
ord during Septeaber 1562. OVIR's primuy fmetica is the
exercise cf control over foreigners in the USCA. Branches uf
CVIR are located in most of the large cities of the foviet
Union. fose eerve an entire oblast or replic rather than
just 8 eity.

AgAitional Information - A etay in the UCR, even of short
Guratica requirca that the visitor register vith the foviet
erfiorittes. ince the fall af 1959 end until feptember 1962
Wis registration kas texen tvo forms, o8 described below.

1. Rotel Registration - Most tourists have been
registered by. the hetel.uhere they opent..their-first night.in—-
the USSR. In mony ceases the firet hotel resictretion is ell
thst 16 placed in tho tourist's passport recpriless of the
itinsrery ef the bearer. In a fev cases nubsequent hotel regic-
trations hve been edied. ‘There ia no Imow reasog for tho
vurtenee in procedures. An “intourist” represeatetive, a
manber of the hotel afministration or possibly aa OVIR repre-
cettative at hotels may handle hotel registrations and the
yeasing om of those pagsports waich require en OVIB extension
or chenge. We are not sare of OVIR's role in eimple hotel
registrations.

Attachment to: De Memo Bp. 6631
Rg <1



> Prevelers not having tourist

plewtic persoimel) normally met reaieter
vith OvIR, or with Fro ( Pasportno-img!etrate sorry Stdel =
Pauscport Pegistration Section) which to subortinets to the
wilitia on eity ent oblast-levele andivaick exeeuces OVER’
fimetions in thous mrees not having mn Ovi. his registration
taxes place in the city uhere the first overnistt etey 16 onde.
Senerelly the euthorived itinerary ‘6 plaood in the registra-
tion cachet. in com cases the registretion to haotled by the
traveler personally but “Intoarist” ed hotel autkorities have
esaisted by pansing the treveler's passport to CYL

Regardless of type cf visa (except diploumtic) alt
extensions or changes mitt bo made by CVIR, Fince 100 met
vieitora simply moeive hotel registrations. OVIn entries are
uade only when oxtensions or changes are required.

Gmection B. Low mmny OVins aro there ‘2 Moscow?

~ Dased oa a review of valiéating cachet nsers, OVIR
reg.streticn mrbe:s and OVIK officer signatures it ia belicved
that in 1959 there wes only ome OVI in Moccoy. It vas to thio
office thet yessporto collected by hotels, alitia
offices (Tesportayy tal), tie ond the “foreiim ecetiona of
oniversities, ware. sest or brought. persoanlly ty the bearer for-
GVIR regietretions or changes.

Saitional Information - 4 single OVIR afYice also soem: the
cance in ceveral other evens (Cities of. leningred.mnd.Riey,. and...
the Ropablica ef Averbeytoken, Lithuania, Laiv'n, and Yotouin).
At least in one erca, Teshhent, Ustek SOR, there ‘8 evifience Ea
that three eepamte validating cachet pmbers were in use Curing
1053: 18 by GVIR Us (Upravleniye Militssi) Urbek SeR, 3h by

FRO UVD Tashkent Cblast Ispolkea and 419 by PRO UM Seshkent
Goreaveta.

Attachnest to: ID Ho No. 6631
Page -2

Ha a ibe



fll OVIR registrations, extensions ani chaywes are
velifated ty an OVIR eachet. ‘here were changes. in tho. text
of these cachets in 13f1 end late 1562, The text changer re-
flected governmeent ocainistrative recrymmisetions. Pach OVIR
hes @ tvo or three digit omber vhich is pert of thio
Validating cachet. ‘The meer epprrently changee omumlly..

A review of the OVIR registration mmbere in Moscow
enf Leaingred revealed that they ore issued in muverical
order, indienting @ contral control in these cities.

Caly tyo dlfiorent signatures crear on the approsi-
nately 59 atfferent 1999 Noscov OVIR cackets reviewed. (ne of
these was alvays preceded by the vord "sa" neaning “for” t.e.
authorized to sign for. All OY recictrntions end chenges in
boocew during 1959 ere by CVIR or OVLiI, (the Inst letter
standing for “IKCSTRALI EV’ meaning for foreigners), “JVD
Yosgersoreta (Moscoy city council). ‘hs sicnetures noted
ebove appeared intercimayenbly on both registrations and
changes, Ho Hoses Oblast registrations vere noted,

As previously noted OVIA registration is noraally
eevermlished at the first mior city visited by the traveler,
Qnd ehould other citice erpear on the traveler's Itinerary
‘they are entered on the registretion occhet. Usually no further
OVIR entriss are mide et the other cities (excepting additional
botel registrations: im some" iastancos) unless the traveler
requsstes ga extension or cuimge. Ho deregictretion entries
@ppaer im the prscport upon departing the USCR.

Question C-  Viere are the.7IRe located. in. Mascot"
Angver < She location of the OVIR in Hescey is unknown,
Quention D, Ie en OFIR locsted at either of the following
scdresses?

1. Ogareva Uliten

2. Kolgechayy poreulok $9

Attachment to: DB Heo Bo. 6631
7 Page -3

|
\



sé és ae a entaininasersisantiisnneeinsinioe Heute yey aaa
“ene area mebn OSG AEP ENDER ELEMENT MA REE SII PEALE LEHI INTEL ci ale aaeslaell

Aagver = Fo information.

“etdress book for Moscov lucate the following MVD organs
83 follows:

Glavnoye Uprevlentye Militei1, “VD SSSR ~ ul. Ogareva, €

: Upravleniye Milited:, VD BGR - ul. ogareve, 6

Upravleniye Ymutrenuikh Del ispolkowa Nosobleoveta = ul. Belinskego, 3
Fesportnyy Otdel UVD Ispolkora Mosoblaoveta - Nuresovekiy p., 12 :

Upravieniye Virtremikh Del Ispultom Hosgorsoveta - retrovin, 30 :
Pusportnyy Ctéal UVD Ispolkoma siosgorsoveta - Leningredskiy Prosp., 16 : i

PRO UVD Mosoblicpolkoma - 2-aya Hechthanskayn, 97 a

770 UYD Hosgorispoltomn - Leaingredskoye She, 22 :

Btol Rakhfck (Lost end Found Burcu?) UVD Moagoriepolkoma - Putrovka, 30
(for information ceacerning lost documents)

Gestion E, Is there an OVIK in itinsk?

Angeer - The available informmtion indicates thst en OVIR ws
lccated in Hinsk in 1955. Ito validating cachet mmber wag 309.

Question Teer the “do plus the dete” (until plus the date)
in the OVIR registrntion placed in a foreimer's passport in
Moscow mean that be mut lesve the comtry by aidnight ef the
preceding date or on the date indicated?

Attechzent to:



fnever - A review ef o mmber of legal traveler comments
indicates that although maxy people leeve eeveral days “prior
to or right on the cay preceding tie “fn” date, just as mny
Leave on the “do” cate and a few aren coveral cnys after.
These latter instances could be Guo to the lack of available ©
transportation leaving the USSR. It ia Tor/ha's belief that.
@ traveler cas be required to leave by midnight of the day
Preceding the “de” énte.

fédttions] Inforntion + 4n erres similer to thet sentioned
in our diveussioa i.c. GyIR entering the wrong date in the
vies extension, has been noted in the pest. bother this vas
intentioual or simply aa erroneous estry cemmot bs doteruined.

fn OVIR registration is mde valid for the period
euthorized by tha visa. ‘Thus, if the vise suthorizes a 30
Gay otay, the OVIN registration will be good for #) dnys from
the date of entry into a comtry (not from the date of regis=
tration vhich may be several days later).

ion G - Does the following (taken from the tourist's note
eny significance?

"VARA ~ D. A. VIEEDA”
fnsver - 250/03 eannct determine the significanse of this note.

Attachment to: DB Mimo Ho. 6631
Foge <5



sentonnonigaainns spa Aineair tinue nnononrasroms aanabaasranrecmssoiptarsnaesdmintenconne i sora siveren incest inmigene ater 1 SR TEE ENE:

i

SECRET

Bale GF Hauesd : é
30 Dee 63 7 a 3
but DATE

Tl Dec 63 : |

NAME C2 KEQUESTORALTERNATE nae AND LOCATION : fe DATE RECEIVED ~ |

__ Duncan Stevart | SBC Res dg 30 Dec 63

BERET FECzIVED BY :Nar | téfiakD F08 AGTION 10 we [powcr Name : :
SECTION 5 m, lor cao, :

a : | hy

REQUEST FOR TSD;DB SUPPORT

eeundne amis gaspssantatnanreseaeeangeeessauassee Wntjisaeietasenig oot eastet tle Gea Bl odo pleases é
Wt OF aro AUT fal is Ks

REQUEST wicide Wipe Of ems, number ef rene. puizose Wems wil serve, document country, use counry 4

ee ego anion ecm ae cease thao) a pecesioe 106) aan cea
for am oral response to the following questions:

. 1. Does the “do plus the date” (until plus the date) in the OVIR (Visa and
: Pogistration Section) registration pleced in a foreiger's pozsport in loscoy moan
thet he must leave the country by midnight of the preceeding date or on the date |
indicated? |
* 2. What ts OVIRT
! 3. How many OVIR's are there in Moscoy?
4. Where ere they located? Are either of the folloring OVIR addreeses? i |
@. Ogareva Ulitsa; b. Kalpachnyy pereulok $9
Se Does the folloving have any significance? : q
°WZhA-D-A. VLDEDA”

‘The caze involves an American toc": who visited Moscoy in October 1959. His
Passport is not presently eveilable. <. nvove questions are based on a note book

| RECORD OF ACTION oe ae Sa aE

hept by the tourist. He vas issued a Soviet via in a forcign country (unspecified)
valid for six (6) days after eresaing the Soviet border. ‘he Moscow OVIN regisctretion
iniiented that he coulda stay in the comtry until the 22nd (do 22-og}, presumbly
of. October: 1959h... le: hed-his-visa"extented; ‘but ’poeeibly erroncously; “the Cond ven’
once again entered as the "do" date. Ho was cubscqueatly informed that be vould bave
‘| to leave the country by midnight of the 2lst. (sonehow he mmaged to stay on. To
: @etails vere provided).

02 arrival in Moscow (Re was elon) he vas met by on intourct guids vho took 2
him too hotel. Information concerning a hotel registration ves not evatlable,
Requestor id wot know if thn visu vos © tourist vinn (1-6. mnztsod tourist).

i
H
i
i
i

