4104-10172-10302|

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KE!

NNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

Ord °

Aus 27

DCC. MICRO. SER.

ony

: - L£s9. i
(Rechineg?D |

a

i)

GATE MICROFILMED

foun Use mvs
ou 6109 DInOMt

CocoMenT GATE OGCUMENT NUMBER

SECRETY ~ tor


. «

1.

2

‘DISPATCH
10 Chiat, WE
Chief, SQ \

(yor uae

Pee" aEDCAP
02 Capa /s Gta S Contact with Gr:
a

a

SCL-1SCie

_ : ——
Chief of station, Gerstaxtt 1K"

coe I.

cz4
"HAA S982
‘OFHA}5988
2 ee
In the lest tuo or three vecks(ABPAINEE/S and(A
contasts with Grigoriy YS. GOLUB, As we have mentioned in Previcas dis-
Fatches, [AR/S,had met GOLUB at the Soviet Embassy vhile she was
for her visa <o the Soviet Union last February, GOLUB seamed ts be quite
iupressed with (A/S, and Ler ability to epeak Russian and mate ber promise
that when she Fétured fttea the USSR she vould ‘come {a and tell bis all
about her experiences on the trip, As 1s also kano FEY'S ia a good
ereonal friend pari SS went to the train station to say farevell to
'S prior to the latter’s drip into the Soviet Union. At the train
Station was QULUB, as vare other Soviets vio had cone to say god-ty to, js:
Mikhael IOV, GOLUB’s esaigtant in the Consulate, vho was to:
Moscow. "Upon seaikg(AEVS GOLUB cane up to her to ask hov her triz ves cod
again to invite her to “his affice in the Eubassy to tell him aboct it, She

Ae
5.

& ‘S was standing neaF(AR/S, felt it nocossary to introduce(AR/5;
GOLUB. Upon hearing” that (A£/5 vould be onthe train to he
called LYUBDDY over and intréduced and ft LYUBDOV stating that
now LYUWINOV d havo .an attractite lady’%o talk with on the train.
On about 20 May dropped into the Soviet Babassy to talk with GOLUB
as che had promised, GOLUS vas quite busy end therefore only ha! the chance
to chat for a very few minutes, However, vhon he heard that she vas
leaving the first week in Jue, he invited her to cone to a farevell dinner
in het-honor 2 epartment Sunday eveding, 24 May, He also tald her that
AKJS, aince he had bad the opportunity to bec soquainted
with her on the-train from Leningrad to Helsinki. (Details of, asys
‘Di trip including a report of ker conversations are included 1aRef B).
is or GOLUB, Prior to this

ot responded that eho OS BRE OS meee eee

02 [ABYS accepted. Arrangenents vere made vith
Point Gf iad t_beea told SF (AKYS’s associa with ua, but ahe strongly
ed e knew of (anys comection with us as she

suspes’ ARYS, re

had recomend for IN trip, Werfelt it necessary at this

point to info! that (an]s’: |p Was taken under our aponsorstip, We

had intended to'do this after [Az left Helsinki, as we are hezing to
O*haveliB/5 continue with of (AR/Ss Finnish contacts. B. the

involvement with GOLUB aera, We'thought it better to inf of

thie and a little about GOLUB personally co that she knew where stood.

7 iz ze,
GOL made arrangaseats to mect Dotn(Ai/s and Sin the downtown section
of Helsinki on the evening of the.dinner, GOLUS celled a taxi, an? the
three of then drove to his apartment, Upon entering the apartaent GOLIB
introduced both of then to bis wife, Hina. There was no one alse invited,
GOLUB first apologised for the large size of the apartment and the fact
that it vas sc sparsely furnished, He stated that in Moscov they alvays
had a small apartaent but witle ia Hel. they felt obligated to have a
larger place where thay could entertain?’ AS7S: stated the apartmest vas
quite ald with pany rooms, all of witch were quite large. One or two of
the ‘rooms veren’t furnished at all. The Curniture did not appear to be
too old, was somi-noderm, ani not particularly tn goot taste but still
confertable, As far (S could observe, the GOLUB’s had no kitchen
help or other domestica, She balleved that GOLUB’s wife had fixe? the
dinner herself. The wife also aerved the Inner, There vas never ary attenpt
during the evening to ply the two girls vith liquor, The GOLUBs sesrad
small appetizers including caviar before dinner, a little vodka vita the
meal, and a glase of vognac after, The evening vas quite pleasent, ani
GOLUB and hia wife seemed to get along fine, The latter vas frientiy ead
soctable and did not azpear nervous. One of the main reascne uy Q8
told them he vanted then to cere to dinner vas to hear some Russ van



33)

CONTINUATION OF : i
DISPATCH i 7

it, they lagged about one half a block behind Hrs, GOLUB and
02 GES nent

recorda and especially eome of his Challapin records, ‘After dinner GOLUB
also shoved then sone Scviot/Rusaiaa art books and some of his othsr mnentos,
He gave 4 seal Russian art tock vith an, inscription and his signature,
COLUB put on’some recornis and once asked to dance, A little while
after dinner a knock was heard at ths front re In walked another Soviet
carrying sone reels of film ani a movie projector. GOLUB intraduced this
young man to the girls but G5 did not catch his nace and did not want to
hake an abvious attempt to windout vhat his name ves, A screen and the
fector were set up in a roan fn viich there vas no furniture, Then
GOLTS asked the tvo girls and his vife to come in aa he wanted to show come
films. Bot GE/S and(AK/S*Gere delighted because they felt they vere going
to see somo files on the Soviet Untor. Hovever, the only films that GOLUB
had vere sone Walt Disney cartoons Starring Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck.
During the shoving GOLUB laughed uproariowily and seemed to enjoy the films
traxendously, After the files they vent back into the living room and
chatted soxe sore. About 2500 houre both the girls felt they had stayed
long enough and said they’ would have to be going. GOLUB stated that he and
his wife would valk thes home. . As they loft the apartment Mra. GOLIB
walked arm-ineara with(AE}S) and GOLUB walked arf<in-arm with (Ag/5i2 They
firet valked "9 apartment vhich was about five.gr aix blocks from the
GQLUBs, Mr, and Hrs, GOLUS were extremely varm toi BY and vere very
aincere in their farevells. GOLUB stated he hoped she had success in the
futare and thet if she should ever come back to Helsinki she should be sure
to lock them up, They then valked{A/5, to her bus stop yhich vas about
eight blocks further, At the bus stop they said good-by IS and added
they vere both looking forvard to more such social evenings IS stated
later that the evening was very pleasant, that both the GOLUBa vere very
sociable and seemed to enjoy having them, Sinc@(@z/5 specks better Finnish
than she does Russian, she and GOLUB seened to be together most of that:
evening DUAEYS does not speak Finnish, so she wasozpaired vy necessity vith
Mra. GOLUB who knows no Finnish. While GOLUB and (Ai/'S were walk: to(any's’s
er

loned how much she enjoyed mesting Mra, GOLUB and the invitation
for dinner, GOLUB stated that before hia wife and be were married they had
mown each other for a long time and marriage just seemed to be the next
step. He eald that now he and his vife are "good pale", and he also
mentioned thet his wife, although she liked Helsinki, did not like the
weather which caused her a lot of sickness /2(AK/S, who ia quite outepoken,
stated, "Then there is only one thing for you to do and that 1s to apply
for a transfer because your wife’s health 1s much more important than your
job." ‘GOLUB responded very quickly stating, no, she was wrong, the job vas
certainly sore important to him than his wife, GOLUB stated that he vas an
orphan and that the Communist system had given him everything.

Another interesting thing happened in the GOLUB’s apartment after dinner 22.
while they vere listening to the Chalfapin.records, GOLUB turned to

and saids "The friend that you met in the Soviet Union who is tring to send
you Chaliapin records is having a hard tine finding thea because all the
tourists. are buying then up." Thie shocked and surprised(AE/3 because she
hed never mentioned to GOLUB or anyone in Finland besides the tmdersigned
that one of her contacts, Yuri MOZLOVSKIY, (Seo Personality Annex “4 of

7 (OrHA}s898) vhom meted casually net at the Bolshoi Theater, had promised

stad Pecorde. had no reszoase for GOLUB and let the remark pasa.
We have no idea why threv out this remark into the conversation a3
he never mentioned. 1t again. ,

‘ ou 2
cone %a1104(kzV$ coce or twice after the Manner to invite her out Soain,
but(AiY5 had Glvaya previous engagenents, On 16 June GOLUB puoned(AnyS ad
asked if she could join him and his vife for a movie on Saturday nigit, 20
June ‘5 said no, that sho had plans for the weekend, He then vaid
how about Friday evening. She said nc, she vas stil: busy. He sald then
Thursday. She was still busy, and he seid than how about tomorrow night,
Wednesday. She felt she had to accept at tals point, He then stated that
he and Sis wife vould rae ays in dovntova Helsink!)*{azJs, on the next
evening, vent to the pre-arrenged spot alone and found GOLUS there alone.
When she ‘aaked him vhere Hina waS(AEJs is on Cirat name basis with both
GOLUB ana his wife) GOLUB eald that blo wire felt a little ill and decided
uot to come to the movig’idth thea bet that she hed sent a gift along for
her, OOLUB then gave WIJS a papar bag containing a eet of inexpensive
vooden Russian dolla, (ARS was quite taken back by the fact that Mra. GOLUB

ay $Je
~

emesis | OU a

PL icowrmeen

1
free



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH - ila .

waen’t‘there tut felt she bed to go along to the mrie. Thoy went to the
Capitol Theater in Halsirk: viich usutily shove Scviet films, COLUB vent
to the cashier, apcke Rasaiaa, and ordered tve ticketa. When thay valke!
Into the theater (A2)S,note! that thar 7 fev people in the theater,
GOLUB had bought the fost expansive s: loges, votch are individual
compartments usuaily for two people?@\Ak{5 vas somevhat nervous and measy,
hovever, GOLUB vas a perfa:t gentleman throughout the vhole parformance,
After the movie COLUB aired Gay) to her bus, They walked around the town
for about an hour vhile the tvo Sf then discussed Soviet political theory,
and Soviet vs western cuitce, Her conclusions vere that GOLUB iv a firm
believer and supporter of bis system but still talked objectively end
intelligently vanting to explain Pays why he Dalieved commmiga vas the
best system, GOLUB vas quite vooiferdus about this, epcke quite definitely,
intently and vaved his arms as he spoke. He firmly dalieved that eventually
the whole vorld vould be cosmmmistic ami thia vould come about peaceably
and naturally: (A8/5 reised the Hungarian Revolution to GOLUB aa an example
of bow *peaceably® commmian vould come about, GOLUB stated Soviet Russia
had to intercede, that the bulk of the peopie in Hungary vant a comumis'
goverment, and only a fev reactionaries started the revolution, He stated
that that was the.resson they had to sand Soviet tanks, He then brought wo
the example of the US action in Guatazala, When thie tock place, he stated
‘the Soviets protested and protested, but everyone knew in the Soviet Union
‘that this action vas something the US had to do to protect ite oun Interests,
He aad this vas the same cituation in Hungary.

fora
5 ys steted that even though the discussion/argument was qiite long and

are At never: became heated nor did GOLUB become angry, He kept repeating

r)

Is that she should return to the Soviet Union for another tourist trip.
OZAEYS stated that she would like to very much and would think about it,
UB alao told her that it would be good for her to stuty a year at the
University of Moscow but that this would probably not be good for(@rys’s
future to have something like this.on her record. 2

oe

On 25 June GOLUB phoned again to inform her that he had Just received
some more phonograph records from the Soviet Union and she might like to
hear them, On 28 June he phoned her again merely to chat, At this tine he
told her that his vife vas leaving for holidays in Moscow and that there vas
some man in Moscow she loyed better than her husband. This surprised(ARYS o2
who told GOLUB he shouldn’t joke like thet, GOLUB assured her that he vas

not joking.

We are OG tn th process of filling out a PRQ IT, so a full CA can
ve ranted ings, She is a very intelligent, conscientious, and a quick,
young an student. She is well read and versed in Amarican politics,
literature, and culture and hes an insatiable thirst in learning the same
about other countries, Her maln interest at this point is Finland and the
Soviet Union, and she spends most of her spare tine in the University
Library gathering material for her study project, Fenno-Soviet relations;
However, she is far from the tock worm type. She 1s outgoing, fairly
attractive, meets people well and has travelled much around Finland alone
Just to sea how the Finns live and work, She is independent by nature,
outspoken, and somewhat aggressive fn finding out things she wants to know,
Sho realises full voll the implications behind her contact with GOLUB, and
we do not feal that ske would ever allow herself to be put into the tion
to have to say yes or no to a seducticn atteapt by GOLUB, Our impression

is that she hopes cen like her for her mind. She enjoya eing GOLUB and
delights in their serious political discussions, GOLUB appears to enjoy
‘them and her too, We will keep you posted on further contact.

oz
The final results cf(Ap/5’a REDSKIN trip are being pouched in REFEREWE B.
Coatille’s lunch with GOLUB has been reported in Reference A.

Distribution:

‘ Downe

