104-10103-10354) : .:/ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEL ASSINA'

ogi 202 :

oy ECRE T
: DY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
" noe z= DS AC

: i. 3
Be peo z (a761]
44% November 4974

OB. --
dear [teoree, }
: WICOLE SZULC
—_—_—_—— . :
‘ of
. We attach a note which we have received from {FETCH Jana
which will be of interest to yous We would be grateful for any
traces and your comments. Lire ea ?
; qe 4 : .

Yours sincerely, zy

of

8
He [Geonge B Holmes). tote ;

2) rem ou
“Do Rot Reais”



NICOLE SzULC

4. . We would de grateful for ‘braces on Nicole SZULC, American bk fou
freelance journalist, age 27/29. She apparently also works for cenP~ ©”
a@_group which carries out research into fmerican security and Nlahead ao

intelligence overatioy Her father. was New York Times Bureau puddo
Chis? is RVINA in 10e04 SZULC isa strong eympathiser of the >
Cuban regime: by her owh account she has come to Cuba for one

month at Cuban invitation to gather material on CIA operations

in Cuba, past and present, and to "assist" the Cubans in uncovering
new leads to current CIA intelligence activity (particularly among
the foreign community). She was last in Cuba in 1971. SZULC made
her first approach to the Cuban Embassy .in MEXICO CITY several
months ago-with a request for Cuban material on CIA operations.

The Cubans responded by inviting her to a clahdestine-type meeting
in NEW YORK where she met Cuban officials accredited to the UN in
acar. At that meeting no material was provided but she was asked
to come to Cuba _as-soon as possible’in order to carry out "joint
research". SZULC spent.the month of October in Brazil.where she

has family (she ‘is half Brazilian)’ and arrived in HAVANA ona

flight from LIMA on 9 November. She had appointments with MINREX .. -
on 13 November to discuss her "programme" for the next four weeks.”

2... I met SZULO first.on 12 November at REGIN's (Reuter) -
appartment where. she. called to see him while I was paying him a
brief, unheralded call. I met her again‘by chance on 13 November
in the lobby of the Riviera Hotel where she“and British businessmen
whon I was visiting are staying. The sympathetic curiosity. shown
by REGIN and me ‘on the respective occasions was sufficient to get
her talking about the purpose of her visit. At the same time REGIT
and I both made favourable comments on certain aspects of Cuban
develonoment and this seemed to win her confidence. Her evident.

capacity for. self-delusion appears to enable her to suppose that

other observers of: the Cuban scene (except those possibly working
for the CIA whom she hopes to uricover) share her partiality towards
the Cuban system.’ I did not, of course, disillusion her in my case,
and, although challenging some of her more outrageous remarks,

left her with the impression of a favourable view of Cuba. She is,
however, self-opinionated, intellectually obstinate and quite
incapable of objectivity when discussing Cuba. She seems keen’ for
a further meeting (no doubt as a stepping stone to the foreimm
comunity she wishes.to penetrate) and I ‘suspect is prepared to!
use her feminine charms along the way.

3. Apart from traces I should wel¢ome your comments. Since she

will presumably be meeting DSE and DGI officials I would obviously

have to be circumspect about any further encounter with her, but

you may consider this a good opportunity to: try and pick up Gad os
whatever details she may reveal unguardedly about Cuban counter~/ PLY Aree
intelligence operations.

pty Chat Ayele rahe
lypbea te 74 — ss At d pit

Pipi nae bE shes
SN te Uongeeece hire

