{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

104-10183-10304|

eet aa GET RETURN TO CIA
: : : : Background Upe Only
om Do Not Reproduce

. WH/C 66-379

e@ SERIES

MENCRANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT : Permanent Residence in the United States
for Vladimir RODRIGUEZ LaHera under
Provisions of Section 7 of the CIA Act P
of 1949, as Amended, gy

1. It is recommended that Vladimir RODRIGUEZ LaHera
be granted permanent residence in the United States under
Section 7 of Public Law 110. Subject's family is not
included as they have entered the United States under
normal immigration procedures.

2, This action is deemed essential to the support
of the Cuban diplomatic and intelligence defector effort
and to retain the services of an individual able to be
of assistance in psychological warfare and political action

assignments.

3, Subject has been utilized by CIA since his de-~
fection in April 1964. He has provided voluminous, accurate,
and valuable information on tie organization of the Cuban
intelligence services, their operations, staff members,
and agents. Ke has been, is being, and will continue to
be used to effect recruitments and defections of members of
the Cuban intelligence and diplomatic services. He desires
to settle permanently in the U.S, and has been assured
this would be possible. fis value to us will continue to
be considerable as a fluent spokesman for the anti-Castro
cause and in serving as a means of approach to high level
targets in the Cuban Government, particularly those in the
diplomatic and intelligence services. If Subject is not
assisted in his express desire for permanent residence in
the U.S,, this will immeasurably increase the difficulty in
encouraging other high level recruitments and defections
as Subject will provide living proof that CIA is not trust-
worthy or is powerless to assist those who cooperate with

and depend upon us.

4, Subject has ‘never been a nerber of the Communist
ad Party. liowever, he is ineligible for an immigrant visa
to his service in the General Directorate of Intelligence,

the Cuban external intelligence service.

|



=2-

\
5. A detailed justifieation to support this recom-
mendation is attached. ‘

Willica V. Broe

Western Hemispiere Division

Attachments 2

APPROVED:

Director or Central IntesTizence :

por/mi/c/cicsfE. QS ssfoes
25 August 1966

Distributioa:
Orig & 1 — Addressee
AC/WHD
= Wi/kegistry
= C/WH/C
- WH/C/ESEC z .
= WH/C/CICS
- Contact Division
=~ OS/AAS

Hee

