(104-10186-10114) [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

. Boar
ae é * counray Ceba ; CS CF-326/00693-64
CT Manuel Pineiro Lossda DATE DISTR 27 aceey 1964
NO, PAGES 2
ee a

pice g Eashington, D. C.

FIELD REPORT NO,

DATE ACG. sugust 1964 _
Ths 5 Ui ID INFORMATION, SOURCE GIADINGS ARE OETINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE,

4A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964. -

adquarters Comments:

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
inforzution from the records of this. Agency. ~

It is requested that the addressees take no actign on any of
tze individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
Zirst checking with this Agency. :

Lanuel PINEIRO Losad2, Cnie? of the Direccion General de
‘ateligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI),
resides at Avenida 41, Calle 18, Miramar, Cuba, and his DGI
elice is also located at this address. Although PINEIRO
has more than one telephone number, the only one source could
recell was 29-4257.

1.

SIRO is a close friend of Carlos Manuel LECHUGA Hevia, the
Cubaa ....bassador to the United Nations, and when LECHUGA
is 15;Habana he ~j;ends much tice with PINEIRO.

3. Source reported that the training for revolutionary activity
in Zanzibar was arranged cirectly by Fidel CASTRO and PINEIRO
(the BGI as an organization had nothing to do with the
arrangezents for the training).

PINZIRO was born about 1929, is about five feet ten inches
tall, wieghs about 250 pounds, and has a heavy build. He
has brown hair and eyes, a bushy, reddish beard, and a
flushed, freckled complexion.

a

-S 5. “Source said that sometime after March 1964, PINEIRO traveled 5
ea 4 to Moscow. a 4
3 7 ;
SECRET 2
1 NO: FOREIGN DISSE 1

eae Tawar [wavy ia [isa TEX __1oce

REP CINCLANT CINCSO =

5 Fstd cisvibution iadiccted by “S")

Ta crnrs

Toe ypha 2

B/S ZR
108

Toaeng |

/S477 (1), WE 1 (2), CZ, RID 1

201-235087

on

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDI



Bt accitionual information concerning
the di ation of the above

Freveclew that PINEIR0, his wite,
eiro, im. i won, Manue} Kehlil
Sasitec Sacunon \irzort earoute
ue to Habana on CSA Flight OX 522 on 11 May 1964.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

