# 104-10107-10002

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10107-10002

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

.U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

RETURN IN FIVE DAYS TO

OFFICE OF

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY

MIAMI, FLORIDA 33132

OFFICIAL BUSINESS

PENALTY FOR PRIVATE USE, $300

-...

14?: POSTAGE AND FEES PAID

U. S: DEPARMENT OF JUSTICE

SUAS MAIL"

Central Intelligence Agency

General Counsels Office

Washington, D. C.

20505

PERICAN RELO

LUTI

Attn:

Thomas Briggs

---

## Page 2

4-00000

.::

EC

IN REPLY PLEASE

REFER TO

INITIALS AND NUMBER

TMS: mlj

United States Elepartment of Instice

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

300 AINSLEY BUILDING

MiAMI. FLORIDA 33132

August 15, 1977

/

Central Intelligence Agency

General Counsels Office

Washington, B. C.

20505

76-71-Cr-CA

ATTN:

Gary Nattoglis

RE: US vS. HEMMING

You are a witness in behalf of the Government in the case specified below.

This letter is sent to you in lieu of service of a subpoena. Please accept service of

this letter by acknowledging same on the lower part of the duplicate hereof and return

to me in the enclosed self-addressed envelope which requires no postage. Please

bring with you the exhibits or records listed on the attached sheet.

When you appear in answer to this letter, please report to the address indicated

below in order that you attendance may be certified. Upon being excused, you will

be entitled to such fees and allowances as are provided by law.

If you are the case agent with primary responsibility for the conduct of the investi-

gation of this case, please contact the AUSA or his secretary assigned to this case

immediately upon receipt of this letter for the purpose of reviewing the U.S. Attorney's

case file, specifically to determine whether all subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum

have been properly issued and delivered to the U.S. Marshal for service with current

addresses, and proper instructions with regard to the production of exhibits or records,

etc. Please call this office to verify trial date and time on Friday, Aug. 19, 19.77

Pretrial Conference is schedules for Monday, Aug 22nd at_

Very truly yours,

ROBERT

Y. RUST

UNITED

ES ATTORNEY

By grom

Sherouse

Assistant United States Attorney

305-350-5449 or 350-4471

Please report: Date: Monday, Aug. 22nd

Time:

Address: Mezzanine Floor, Main P.O. Bldg., 300 N.E. First Avenue, Miami, Florida

CASE NO.

TITLE OF CASE

ACTION (TRIAL OR GRAND JURY

76-71-Cr-CA

us vs. Gerald P. Herming

TRIAL

TO THE UNITED STATES ATTORNEY: I accept service of this notice in lieu of subpoena

and will be present accordingly at the time and place designated above.

SEVOLITION

---

## Page 3

4-00000

IS RETLY PLINGR

R0rer 40

INITIALS AND NUMNIR

MPS: mvp

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C..

Maited States Arpintment of Jusher

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY

SOUTSIREN DISTRICT OF I'LORIDA

300 AINSLES BUILDING

MIAMI, FLONIDA 33132

May 31, 1977

TRIAL POSTIONED

BECAUSE NEN' PURGE

TAKING CASÉ

Thomas L. Briggs.

ATIN:

You ale a witness in behalf of the Government in the case specified below.

This letter is sent to you in lieu of service of a subpoena. Please accept

service of this letter by acknowledging same on the lower part of the duplicate

hereof and return to me in the enclosed self-addressed envelope which requires no

postage. Please bring with you the exhibits or records listed on the attached

Sheet.

When you appear in answer to this letter, please report to the address indicated

below in order that your attendance may be certified. Upon being excused, you will

be entitled to such fees and allowances as are provided by law.

If you are the case agent with primary responsibility for the conduct of the

investigation of this case, please contact the AUSA or his secretary assigned to this

case immediately upon receipt of this letter for the purpose of reviewing the U.S.

Attorney's case file, specifically to determine whether all subpoenas and subpoenas

duces tecum have been properly issued and delivered to the U.S. Marshal for service

with current addresses, and proper instructions with regard to the production of

exhibits or records, etc.

Sincerely,

ROBERT W. RUST

NITED SLATES ATTORNEY / •

Assistant United States Attorney

Please report:

Date: June 20, 1977

Time: 8:30 AM

Address:

US Courthouse, Mezzanine, 300 NE Ist Ave., Miami, Florida.

CASE. NO.

TITLE OF CASE

ACTION (TRIAL OR GRAND JURY)

76-371-Cr-CA

•..о...oodooo...o.

USA v. Gerala Patrick Hemming

Trial

TO THE UNITED STATES ATTORNEY: I accept service of this notice in lieu of subpoena

and will be present accordingly at the time and place designated above.

(Witness Signature)

---

## Page 4

4-00000

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

RETURN IN FIVE DAYS

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

300 AINSLEY BUILDING

MIAMI, FLORIDA 33130

OFFICIAL BUSINESS

PENALTY FOR PRIVATE USE, $30€

POSTAGE AND FEES PAIO

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

JUS-431

DISMALL

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

300 MINSLEY BUILDING

MIAMI, FLORIDA 33132

Attn:

Thomas Sherouse

4

---

