Deputy Chief, WH/SA

+

Chief of Station, smwavEif’.) \ |

ti
TERTGReP Frat

‘ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action Required: For yournformation

. References:. A, UFGW-2601, 16 October 1963
B. UFGW-3377, 16 March 1964

Fes ccna A

1.: Forwarded as a separate attachment is a review of Subject
case which sets forth the extra curricular activities of Subject,

Which appear to be incompatible with his position as an ODWoLs
employee, .

2. Subject case leads to_no definite ns
any RIS affiliation, though Fz

local QKFLOWAGE to assist exile groups and for personal financial
gain, If he is a paid stringer for the New York Times, as our
information indicates, and, if he has been providing information
to both the Times and to JURE based on his access to QKFLOWAGE

-reservations and misgivings concerning Subject's activities to
the COS, JMWAVE.: Under such circumstances, Headquarters may wish
to bring certain portions of the attachment to the attention of
QKFLOWAGE for appropriate action,

4 5

eons L Core aaneele!

Pt ANDREW K, REUTEMAN

Attachment: 1
Under Separa Cover

bg A att: Le
Distribution:
we.

20 Aug 1964] AUG 24 Hs

‘DISPATCH SYMBOL AND
UFGA~17410
TEADQUARTE

FERS PLE ROMGER

# = 201-352252

Fe COUSA


5 Bt

Separate Cover Attachment to UFGA-17410

"SECRET

: : Ofnas
SUBJECT: Jorge VOLSKY aka Jerzy Stakistaw AJBUSZYC aka\ Chico .

1. Introduction

dorge_ VOLSKY isa Cuban citizen of Polish origin, now a permanent
U.S. resident, who is currently employe yy the TA office in Miami
as editor of the USIA Weekly Report on Cuban Developments. VOLSKY
came to the attention.of JMWAVE because of his extra-curricular
activities which appear to be incompatible with his position as an

employee of the U.S.-Government. A conflict of interests appears to
have déveloped in VOLSKY's case as a result of his position in the

USIA office in Miami, his ess to various high-level Cuban refugees,
his close association with prominent American journalists (one of j

whom had an entree to high members of the Kennedy Administration pe
and bis involvement in propaganda activities for both the d Sov
the counterrevolutio: roups. Analysis shows that he has used *
his position to obtain information for a leftist political

group, has engaged in anti-US propaganda campaigns for it, and may
be guilty of duplicity in his dealings with KUBARK. VOLSKY is a
Cuban citizen of Polish origin whose background includes a two or

2. Because of this back-
ground and the nature of his present political activities, the
following compilation and analysis of the material currently avail-
able to JMWAVE concerning VOLSKY are deemed necessary and are hereby
presented as.a prerequisite to the determination of the future
course of action to be taken by KUBARK in this case.

2. Original JMWAVE Operational Interest in Subject

a. Jorge VOLSKY first became of interest to KUBARK in Eebruary
1263 when it was learned that he was the gource of an anti-CASTRO
plan _known_as Operational Leonardo designed to sp ie Cuban
Regime by the recruitment of certain elements of the Rebel Army and
Militia in the GOC. This plan had been presented to ODACID through

Tad SZULC, editorial writer of the New York Times Washington Office,
and ODACID sent it for action to KUBARK Headquarters.

b. The disclosure of Jorge VOLSKY as the originator of Operation
Leonardo came about when a KUBARK case officer contacted SZULC at
his home in Washington concerning the plan. SZULC was reluctant at
first to reveal the name of the author but did so when the case
officer pointed out that it was necessary for KUBARK to talk to the
source in order to clear up various points. SZULC, stating that he
would rely on KUBARK's discretion to safeguard the identity of his
“source, named Jorge VOLSKY of the USIA in Miami. SZULC related a
«short biographic sketch of VOLSKY in which it was revealed that
during World War II, VOLSKY, a Pole, had been a prisoner of war in
Russia. .

t
¢c. At Headquarters' request JMWAVE contacted Jorge VOLSKY and
made arrangements to sponsor his plan which involved Cuban infil-
tration/exfiltration ops. It was the intention of KUBARK to use
VOLSKY only as a funding channel for the operatfon; however, because
of the Station's belief that the ‘operation's team would inform
VOLSKY in detail about operational matters, a POA was requested on
him, A request was also made that Headquarters check on VOLSKY's
activities prior to his arrival. in Cuba. -Locally the AMOTs were
requested to provide information on Subject's activities in Cuba.

3. Polish Background Prior to Cuba

Using the information subsequently made available to the Station
by Subject in his PRQ Part I, submitted to JMWAVE March 1963 and the
Headquarters trace reply (Reference A) which includes information
contained in Royal Air Force and Polish exile records in London and
information on Subject recently solicited from various JMWAVE assets,

“ : AN. Fo 19 Fabhe7 7 timo
eor-ssees2 SECRET, Aanerire—y


ND SECRET

2)

the following is an account and analysis of Subject's life up to his
entrance into Cuba in November 1947." :
4
a. In his PRQ Part I Subject lists his full name as Jorge
Stakistaw Ajbuszyc VOLSKY Kraisler, born 8 March 1921 in Warsaw,
Poland. He lists his parents as Josef A. VOLSKY Zascycki, an
“engineer, ‘and Maria KRAISLER Madeirka, a medical doctor, both
- deceased.

b. (Education) VOLSKY's PRQ states that his education consists
of high school attended in Krakow from 1930 to 1938 and one year of
medical school at a University in Krakow.

(1) - USIA records (information supplied by Subject) agree
with the above, showing that he attended the St. Anna Lyceum in
Krakow from 1930 to 1938 and the Jagiellon University in Krakow from
1938 to 1939. ' e

(2) The Headquarters trace reply which included a-London
Station check of the Royal Air Force and Polish exile World War II
records, however, did not mention his attendance at the Jagiellon.
University, stating only that Subject matriculated in 1939 in the
St. Staszic Humanistic College in Chrzanow. (WAVE comment: Chrzanow
is West Krakow, 27 miles WNW of Krakow.)

c. World War “II Service

(1)  VOLSKY claims in his PRQ that during the years
Serial number
705740, rank: Officer ~- Cadet, Private Flight Sergeant. In a
different section of the PRQ he also states that he was a prisoner
of war in Russia . This is an obvious contradiction
within the PRQ itself that requires clarification.

(2) The RAF and Polish exile check (Reference A) mentioned
above confirmed service in the Royal Air Force for a person with the
name of Jerzy Stanislaw AJBUSZYC (the first three names of Subject)
DOB: 8 March 1921, Serial number 705740 with rank: Leading Air-
craftman Radio Telephone Operator. This record which is obviously
that of Subject showed that on 19 June 1942, while in the USSR, he
enrolled in the Polish Army Service where he served for one year
until 30 June 1943 and then enlisted in the Polish Air Force Service
under the British Operational Command on 1 July 1943 and served until
27 July 1947 when he was discharged at his own request’ and emigrated
to Ecuador. The Polish exile representative further noted in
Reference A that in 1942 the Soviets had attempted to subvert some
of the young Poles who were recruited at that time in the USSR for
-Polish Army Service and that such might have been the case with

. Subject: : .

(3) (JMWAVE Analysis) It is interesting to note that
Subject's PRQ and USIA records which stated he was in the RAF from
1939 to'1947 do not agree with his official RAF records which show
that he did not enroll in the RAF until 1 July 1943. The RAF records
also show that he had enrolled one year earlier (19 June 1942) in
the Polish Army Service in the USSR and served in it for a full year
before joining the RAF. However, even allowing the year 1942 as his
service induction date into the RAF, there is a discrepancy in what
he reports in his PRQ (1939) and what the RAF record shows (1942).

It is possible that he has falsely reported the date of his induction
into the RAF in his PRQ in order to cover up his activities during
that period (1939-1942). This was a period of time when great numbers
of Polish prisoners of war were shot by the Soviets. It

that Subject may e_been subjected to RIS recruitment attempts
guring this perio

ad. (Name Change) In the referenced RAF and Polish exile check,
it was noted that the Polish exile liaison representative, while
searching: the record for a Jorge VOLSKY, had found a record for one

SECRET


i

SECREi?

Jerzy VOLSKY (i.e, Jorge VOLSKY) who was born in 1917 and killed in

action in 1941 and Speculated that Subject might -have assumed the name

of this mant
_—

(1) In Reference A, Headquarters stated it had made an exhaust
analysis of the allegation that Subject might have taken the name of tk
Jerzy VOLSKY killed in action but found no indication that would justii
that conclusion, In an effort to determine why Subject's name was car-
ried on the RAF rolls as AJBUSZYC instead of VOLSKY, it was surmised’ by
Headquarters that it was "understandable" because of the length of
Subject's name.. In this regard, it was noted by Headquarters that
Subject had listed his full name in his PRQ Part I as Jorge Stakistaw
Ajbuszyc VOLSKY Kraisler, :

“(a) In analyzing the above interpretation by Headquarters,

JMWAVE. felt that if the RAF were to shorten Subject's name on their

records for brevity's sake, they would have been more likely to omit a
Second or third name rather than his family name of VOLSKY. An investi
gation was initiated by JMWAVE in March 1964 to attempt to clear up the
existing\confusion goncerning Subject's identity, AMBLEAK-1, a persona
friend offSubject, on instructions of his case officer contacted a Mrs,
Aurora de\¥QUESADA Miranda, a very close friend,of the family of Subjec
wife, Mercelles ROVIRA Bertran, Mrs, QUESA! resident of the Hotel
Terrace Park in Miami, is the wife of Davi. SNATA Azcue, former
official of the Ministry of State of the. public of Cuba, and had the
following pertinent information +o offer:. .

(a) During the Second World. War at a session of the Havana
Rotary Club it was decided to ask members of the Club who had single
daughters to act as pen pals for officers. fighting with the Allied
armies in Europe. Mr, Jose ROVIRA presented the names of his three
Single daughters. Only one of these daughters maintained this corre-
spondence (with two officers), one of whom was Subject, a pilot aviator
in the RAF,

(b) According to Mrs, QUESADA, Subject's father died in
the Second World War and Jorge had joined the RAF, She stated that as
far as she could remember, VOLSKY was born in Warsaw, Poland and that
the name VOLSKY was that of his mother or of a grandmother and that
his true name began with "A" and continued, she believed, with a "w"
and a "2",

(c) | At the end of World War II, VOLSKY,
h ben _pa Senorita Me es ROVIRA nd they—becem Sze
As it was not possible for VOLSKY to obtain a visa for Cuba, he obta
one for Ecuador and arranged to stop over in Cuba in transit,

then in London,

inec

5 - _~ (d)-,Upon VOLSKY's arrival in Cuba, Source's husband, Mr,
David MASNATA; ,by virtue of his connection in the Cuban Ministry of
‘State, was able to arrange permission for VOLSKY to remain in Cuba,
Within a year of his residence in Cuba, he married Miss ROVIRA and
because of the fact that his name was virtually unpronounceable, he

decided ‘to adopt the name of VOLSKY legally, stating that this was the
name of his mother or of a gran ther,

e. Station JMWAVE analysis of Subject's background prior to his
arrival in Cuba is inconclusive. The following points, however, are
worthy of further investigation:

(1)_ The fact that the =!
d_by Subject does not totally clear him of suspicion in this
respect. It becomes evident that VOLSKY fabricated a name for his
father, that of Josef A. VOLSKY, which would fit his own new name, If
it is assumed that VOLSKY is not the real name of Subject's father,
three possible solutions to this puzzle emerge:

(a) VOLSKY is the name of a grandmother as Subject claims
and Subject attributed it to his father to avoid lengthy explanations
on forms, * 3



yer

y

ee OD secret

(b). Subjct, AJBUSZYC, took the name of VOLSKY from the

dead pilot for personal reasons. .
4 : .
(c)- _Subject_is ‘a communist agent who assumed one or both
of the subject names @ er in an effort to erase a derogatory back-
ground or, more likely, to assume a new identity and attempt to con-
fuse the issue.

(2) Still in‘connection with Subject's true name, VOLSKY
deliberately withheld information when he made out his PRQ for
JMWAVE in March 1963. The PRQ specifically calls for "name at birth
if different from Item 1" (Item I being Subject's full name).
VOLSKY marked the item as not applicable.

. (3). .The’ slight discrepancy in education listed in paragraph
3 b should be checked: into. .
Pe na
ala) ons February 1963 Hegdquarters reported Jorge VOLSKY as

u probably identical with-one JosephY¥SKULICZ "although this still

questionable", (DIR 16243 dated 8 ruary 1963). There are no
Station traces on SKULICZ and further mention of this tentative
identification was never made by Headquarters,

(5) Still to be’explained by VOLSKY are the circumstances
surrounding. his imprisonment in Russia and his joining the Polish
Army Service there at a time when Soviet intelligence was attempting
to subvert those recruits. .

4, Background in Cuba Prior to U.S.
a. Family ©

(1) VOLSKY-reports in his PRQ that on 7 August 1948 in
Havana ‘he married his present wife, Mercedes ROVIRA Bertran,
Immigration and Naturalization Service (I&NS) in Miami has a copy of
this marriage certificate on file which confirms the marriage date
given above id gives the following. information:

. QB The full name of VOLSKY's wife is Mercedes
Antonia Juan: VIRA Bertran, daughter of Jose ROVIRA and Mercedes
BERTRAN, native@of Spain.

(b) VOLSKY is listed as Jorge Ajbuszyc VOLSKY, son of
Jose and Maria, natives of Poland.

(c)_ From 1937 to 1938 Mercedes was listed as a student
in Santiago de Cuba and from 1938 to 1961 as a housewife in Havana‘

. “(2) :The fact’ that Mercedes ROVIRA says she was a housewife
‘in Havana from 1938 to 1961 does not coincide with the story told
above ‘to the effect that during the war years she was the single
daughter of Jose ROVIRA in Santiago de Cuba, engaged to Jorge VOLSKY.
It is possible that she mistakenly put the year 1938 instead of
1948 on her record. However, that. leaves ten years of her life
unaccounted for in the Immigration records.

b. Business

(1) "Jorge VOLSKY reported in his PRQ that he directed and
owned his own business in Cuba from November 1947 to May 1961 when
he left for the United States. This business, whichhe described as
a publicity office was named Dekora Studio S.A., P. Gomez 283, Habana,
and was subsequently confiscated by the CASTRO Government. VOLSKY
also told AMLAME-1 that in addition to his, publicity business in Cuba,
he had rendered services to the Information Service of the United
States Embassy in Habana, The following reports on VOLSKY's business
were obtained:

(a) AMOT-119 described VOLSKY's business, DEKORA, as a

SECRET


SECRET

* publicity business which engaged mainly in the production and
decoration of floats for carnivals. He stated that the ROVIRA family
helped him financially to set-up this business. ;

(b) Mrs, QUESADA reported that the ROVIRA family was
very wealthy as they were the proprietors in Cuba of the CASTILLO RUM
and CINEMA REX enterprises, among others, and that Mr. ROVIRA put
VOLSKY to work in a.decorating firm which he owned,

(c) Aureliano !4SBRETON, formerly in the advertising

_ billboard business in Cuba, reports that when Studio Dekora was
nationalized VOLSKY was working on a large advertising plan for
Central America ordered by the Coca Cola bottling plant in Cuba.

c.. Contacts’ and Travel

(1). VOLSKY traveled frequently while in Cuba and amassed an
.extremely large number of influential contacts. He was a member of
the Havana Biltmore Yacht and Country Club and predominately
mingled with the upper class professional industrialists and
particularly cultivated ‘the friendship of American journalists, J

(2) According: to his PRQ, VOLSKY traveled to Europe in 1957
on a pleasure trip at his own expense and also had traveled to the
United States many times during the years he lived in Cuba, He also

listed frequent travel to Jamaica.

d. Politics

(1) During the period before his business was nationalized
VOLSKY is described as a socialist, who had publicly said that the
future of the world is socialistic. dl: ro-CASTRO and
had often denounced the United States for putting up with the BATISTA
Government in Cuba which was riddled with graft, (AMOT-119 Report
AA-774/17, September 1962).

(2) According to Tad SZULC, see Paragraph 5 below, VOLSKY
became disenchanted with the Regime when his business was intervened
and he spent the latter part of 1959 and most of 1960 actively
supporting anti-CASTRO activities, SZULC amplified this remark by
stating he knew of instances of VOLSKY's transporting explosives and
hand and shoulder weapons in his private car.

(3) VOLSKY was arrested and imprisoned in La C;
around 20 April 1961 during the Invasion Tousdis sy oe ee
made much of ever since and has used to establish counterrevolutionary
bona fides. “ AMBLEAK-1, who was imprisoned during the same period, *
Stated-that VOLSKY was held for a short time, a matter of weeks, and
probably had been included in this roundup because he was a known
‘MRP member, fokeigner, or member of the middle class. According to
Tad SZULC,- VOLSKY was able to leave Cuba shortly thereafter as he had
a valid U.S, visa in his passport. YOLSKY arrived in Miamion_
22 May 1961, .

5. JMWAVE Knowledge of VOLSKY Relationship with Tad SZULC

a. On 17 September 1962 AMOT-119 presented a report to KUBARK
which contained information to the effect that SKY. d_ influence
an press few Yor

thi 7
Times and the Washington Post, This_infliuence was derived from
Subject" tion in Cuba of American journalists ticular
Tad/*S2ULC, currently employed as a correspondent for the Washington
Bureau of the New York Times. A close relationship exists between
SZULC in Washington and VOLSKY in Miami and they are in touch *
periodically by both telephone and personal VisitS+—VOLSKY Ts a
Source of. information for SZULC and evidently influences his thinking
as is manifested by the transfer of VOLSKY's political philosophy
into the principal thesis of a book on Cuba written by SZULC: namely
that Cuba should not be attacked by the United States and that the
Cuban problem can be solved internally. This book entitled, The

S_book entitled, The

SECRET



or)

Ss ~ SECRET

: Cuban Invasion -- The Chronicle of a Disaster, is ticularly criti
oF _RKUBARK, not limiting itself to a discussion oF a failure at Pla
Gifon, but deal

ing in detail with many other aspects of KUBARK.,

b. AS mentioned in paragraph 2.a., Tad SZULC presented to ODACI
an operational plan based on VOLSKY's ideas which was subsequently
turned over to. KUBARK, SZULC was contacted by KUBARK on 6 February
1963 concerning this plan and gave the following information concern

the background of his relationship with VOLSKY, whom he reported as
author,

(1) VOLSKY has-been a friend of his for the past three year
and he (SZULC) considers him‘one of the most informed exiles on Cuba
internal affairs and stated that he was, in fact, his contact for mo:
of ‘his. important ‘information emanating from inside Cuba, He referred
VOLSKY as "our man in Havana" even though he was living in Miami,

; (2) SZULC reported that VOLSKY, by virtue of his advertisin;
business, had traveled: extensively throughout the provinces:of Cuba
and.had made many friends before said business was intervened. He hi
been able to keep these internal contacts and passes on information
obtained from them to SZULC, Among the most important of his contac’
is AMSTRUT-2;.a lifelong friend of VOLSKY's sister-in-law (unidentif:
who furnishes what SZULC considers vital information by means of this
friendship to VOLSKY. 5

c. In August 1962 SZULC had arranged an interview in Washington

for VOLSKY with Richard N. GOODWIN advisor to former President REN

ee———————— ee L _acvisor to former President KENNI

5 a, In late October 1962 AMBLEAK-1 had reported that VOLSKY calle
upon him to assist him in rounding up recently arrived refugees who

had. seen Soviet missiles and troops in Cuba. It was VOLSKY's purpose

to have AMBLEAK-1 serve as interpreter for interviews of the refugees
by correspondent Tad SZULC.

e. Tad SZULC reported that he had a standing invitation extended
i conta: direct ‘eSident Kenne ce Presi
Johnson, or McGeorge Bundy at any time on Cuban matters, His opinion
obvious]: ri wei; A nis ation a lerefore, his

backing of VOLSKY's plan, to the int where he sat in oi 3A

meetings concerning was, 2] Ey reason it was adopte
SO. aTeET Thi VOLSKY and SZULC maintained a mutua Y pro able
—Ferd tronst: a

. us
‘onship, VOLSKY by providing SZULC with up-to-date information
obtained through his USIA position and through his contacts in the ex
gommunity, and, SZULC, by exerting pressure on KUBARK by means of hic

“in" with the former Administration and his newspaper audience to proj
VOLSKY's ideas, :

+. As SZULC could exert his influence and indirectly pressure KU
‘into adopting dn operation, so could he apply pressure through his me:
to run ‘certain details Pertaining to it, The following example shows
the position KUBARK was maneuvered into by these influences. One of
the principals of the subject operation, AMICE-27, whom KUBARK wished
to remove from said operation because of his indiscretion and inabili-
to accept control, but who was an informant on all aspects of the ope)

was felt that he would take his case to SZULC, The time picked by KUE
to disengage AMICE-27 was one when SZULC was on an extended Latin Amez
trip. AMICE-27 refused the substitute position, delivered an ultimaty
which was not accepted by KUBARK, and, as expected, was reported by a
teammate to be threatening to take his case to the highest authority
through the VOLSKY/SZULC channel, It was JMWAVE's feeling that AMICE-
understood power and politics to the extent that once he became aware
that SZULC would not be available for immediate consultation, he would
be willing to reopen his discussions concerning an alternative positio
for himself with KUBARK, This he did Subsequently, The next step
taken by JMWAVE to ease this situation was to attempt to assuage VOLSK
who was cald and uncommunicative at first, obviously upset over the
dismissal of AMICE-27 and, at the same time, temporarily cut off from
his. powerful Washington channel, However, this treatment released the

SECRET


a SECRET
pressure, diverted a case which might otherwise have been presented to

SZULC, and obviated a situation which might otherwise have been aiffi-
cult and embarrassing for KUBARK,

8. NOLSKY and SZULC were in very frequent contact with each other '
during the JMWAVE Sponsorship of the VOLSKY. pian This fact was
ascertained through VOLSKY's comments to a JMWAV) case officer in
which he often referred to recent activities of SZULC and through the
reactions. of SZULC and VOLSKY when any decisions concerning the opera~
tion made by Headquarters or JMWAVE were relayed to one member of this
partnership without the knowledge of the other. Decisions concerning
the operation handed out by Headquarters and JMWAVE ‘had to be given
simultaneously to SZULC and VOLSKY in order—to—aveid-misunderstandings~ ——
which would arise when one would immediately inform the other of same,

‘h. It is mere speculation to guess whether there is more to this
relationship than that mentioned in Paragraph 6.e, above, It is
interesting to note, however, that on 6 January 1964 in a conversation
between AMICE-14 and a’ JMWAVE case officer concerning language abilities.
AMICE-14 remarked that VOLSKY and SZULC slvays Speak together in Polish.
When asked if they conversed in sh so no one would be able to
understand them, AMICE-14-replied that he thought it was just to practic:
the language.. This fact does not agree with VOLSKY's earlier statement

because he had
not used the language for a long time, It seems strange that VOLSKY
would refuse to speak his native tongue with COS unless he were. afraid {
that his accent or pronunciation would disclose some element of his
background which he did not wish so disclosed, :

i. On 20 February 1964, Chie? of Station, JMWAVE, had luncheon
with Conrad MANLEY, Chief of the Miami Office of USIA, During this
luncheon, in a discussion of VOLSKY, MANLEY stated that he was aware
that VOLSKY was the unofficial stringer for SZULC of the Times and
that his superior in Washington had recently brought this relationship
to his attention, asking MANLEY to discourage it. The reason for this
was that several newspaper personnel in the Washington area had com-
plained to USIA about the preferential treatment afforded SZULC by his
relationship with VOLSKY,

d; The most recent information indicating that the, SZ KY.
xelationship continues is a letter written on 23 February by Theodore
DRAPER, well known author and political analyst, to Miss Phyllis FREEMAN
of the Frederick A, Praeger Publishing Company, (Reference B), In this
letter. DRAPER recommends that VOLSKY be chosen as the author of a book
to be written on Cuba and set up an appointment for him to meet FREEMAN
while he was in New York. Reference B also includes a memorandum in
which FREEMAN reported that VOLSKY was highly recommended for this ‘job
by both Theodore DRAPER and Tad SZULC who rely on him for much of their
day to day information on Cuba. She stated that VOLSKY "is now a
“tstrij g

Stringer for the Washineton byreau of The Times. unich e-evidently ent
a special SZULC-engineered deal", AMCARBON-1 reported on 24 May 196:

receives a week for his work as a stringer. In regard
to VOLSKY's forthcoming book, he has mentioned to AMBLEAK-1 that he
expects to have it published in September 1964 under the title of Cuba
Today. . (Note: In reference B, Phyllis FREEMAN has indicated that
claims that he was educated in England and that he had gone to
Cuba in 1945, a decidedly different version of his background, )

6. VOLSKY's Knowledge of the Cuban Exile Community
a. VOLSKY Refugee Status and Personal Life in Miami

(1) In a recent conversation with AMLAME-1 VOLSKY stated that , |
he had become an American citizen, if

(2) A check of Immigration and Naturalization Service records
in Miami shows that VOLSKY is not a citizen of the United States as he
claims, but became a permanent resident on 5 February 1963, and that
VOLSKY's wife, Mercedes ROVIRA, had petitioned for this status for him, ,

SECRET.

oy


c)

=

SECRED?

(3) AMBLEAK-1 reported that VOLSKY lives with his in-laws,
his wife and child in Coral Gables, He is inordinately fond. of his
child, a boy now twelve years of age, to the point of obsession,

(4)" AMBLEAK-1 also reported in July 1963-that VOLSKY had
developed an intimate relationship with a female pousin of AMBLEAK~1
in Havana rtha BRI’ Cartayal, sister,wf fo: JMWAVE asset,
fiatredo BRITO Cartaya} (201-28337a, jusrtha BRITO now lives. in Miami
Gnd continues her intimate relations p with VOLSKY although she is
also married with children, Neither she nor VOLSKY is aware that
.AMBLEAK-1 knows of their liaison, 4MBLEAK-1 had learned of this reTa
tionship“in the following mannér: While VOLSKY was still in Cuba he
occasionally asked A-1 to try to get letters out for him by diplomat:
Pouch to Miami and after A-1 arrived in the United States%(lartha BRI
frequently asked ‘him to send letters and packages in for her, One da
dissatisfied with the size of a box in which his cousin was sending a
Sweater to a woman in Cuba, A-1 opened said box and found in the fold
of the sweater g, torrid love letter from his cousin to VOLSKY. . A-1
decided to keep'huiet about is knowledge of the relationship and bot
VOLSKY and(BRITO)act in hi, thre lence as though they hardly know one
another, On one occasion (BRITO rought up the topic of VOLSKY in a
conversation with A-1 and-warned him to be cautious in his dealings w
VOLSKY, When. A-1 attempted to get his cousin to explain her warning,
she refused, stating that she felt AMBLEAK-1 should avoid developing
too close.a relationship with him. A-1 felt that (artha)was merely tr
ing to smoke-screen her relationship with VOLSKY. 4

(5) At a meeting between VOLSKY and a JMWAVE case officer on
25 September 1963, VOLSKY remarked on the pressures and frustrations «
life today and suggested that the best way to work off tensions was t:
follow his lead which was to have frequent extramarital relations wit.
gir] friends, .The case officer felt that although this remark may ha*
been meant to be facetious, he was inclined to believe the opposite a)
made it a matter of record ‘for any possible future KUDESK investigatic
of Subject,

b, USIA Employment

(1). When VOLSKY arrived in the United States, he visited his
end and fo onta he _U. S, Embass H a.‘Paull SBETHE
who at that

g n_the Embassv_in Havana, ‘Pa
time was in charge of the Miami Office of the USIA, BETHI
was sold on VOLSKY's presentation of himself as a counterrevolutionar)
recently out of prison and an expert on the communist problem and inte
national affairs. BETHEL contracted him to edit.a VOA program which
was entitled "The Truth Behind the News", JMWAVE traces on BETHEL shc
the following information:

* .-~ (a). ,In 1960 BETHEL who was Press Attache of the U. S.

Embassy in Cuba was a susnected pufommant for the CASTRO Regime,
“(WH/4/CI dated'23 September 1960), No confirmation of this was’ever

developed,

‘ (b) BETHEL was employed by JMWAVE for three months, Octok
through December 1961, as a writer-analyst for a detailed analysis of
the overt Cuban press, This employment took place shortly after BETHE
had left his job in USIA in a huff as he refused to accept a transfer

reports contained nothing which was not already available through regu
established sources and therefore his high salary, $1,000.00 per month

IAGLEY took over his position of Chief of the Miam
Office. WAGLEY mdde. VOLSKY responsible for the weekly summary report
made to Washington USIA analyzing the Cuban situation,

enc resigned his USIA post and began to work for

: (3) It is-believed that VOLSKY has a clearance only as a Purci
Order Vendor for the USIA which does not clear him for any classified

ET



i * SECRET.

, information, nor.is his status that of an officer of the U. S. Gover:
yet he sat in on USIA meetings ahd had access to classified material
WAGLEY and VOLSKY nad a close relationship in their work and WAGLEY

‘ openly reported -VOLSKY as his right hand man to the Director -of the

\ Voice of America (VOA), Henry LOOMIS,

t
(4) . WAGLEY was transferred to the Washington Office in Augus
1962 at which time Conra ‘MANLEY became Chief, VOLSKY continued in
duties.and in addition’ p: pared an additional copy of his weekly repc
for WAGLEY. which was sent directly to Washington for him, As of the
date of this report, MANELY remains in charge of the USIA office and
VOLSKY is still employed in the same status,
ast
(5) According to Tad SZULC, Major Manue]—PINEIRO Losada aka
Barba Roja .
: when he, PINEIRO, telephoned him ir
Miami during the, and stated, in effect
that "Fidel CASTRO was angry as he felt the Russians had sold the Cut
5 down the river", : a .

(6) on 3 May 1963 Manots féae la TORRE, radio announcer and
Voice of America newspaperman, reported that the employees of VOA con
sider’ VOLSKY’as an individual with whom one must be careful as he is
suspected of being a communist,.

(7) " Gabrié1]*QUINTERO, operator of the USIA radio equipment
in Miami,. reported to AMTAUP-2 in August 1963 that on various occasio
he has surprised Jorge VOLSKY listening in on USIA telephone conversa
both incoming’and outgoing. QUINTERO states that he doesn't know wha
reason motivates VOLSKY to do this.

~ MaN°'(8) awraup-2 reporteg-that on 13 September 1963 he was in th
\) USIA office when, Miriam :-WNORWEB who is an official in ODACID in
/." Miami arrived there. A-2 was ‘ormed that Mrs, NORI is alyery fre
Soe nd has‘*long interviews with him and Keeps hi

constantly informed about ODACID affairs.

c. VOLSKY's use of USIA for JURE Purposes - The following incide
rélated here in chronological order, are reported to substantiate JMW.
claims that VOLSKY has used his USIA position for JURE political obje
and in fact might be the power which directly or indirectly determine
these objectives.

(1)_ (General) ong VOLSKY''s Cuban contacts is 1 KCHIBAS
Rivas. 201-248160, a member of the executive committee of JURE, liste
as Manolo RAY's right-nand man, This contact originated.through the
close friendship of VOLSKY's wife with the divorced wife of CHIBAS ‘an.
a8 a result, VOLSKY-became closely connected with Manolo's group. Ac
cording to JMWAVE: trades, CHIBAS, the former director of the Havana
Military Academy and defect:
in_1960,_ He gave a three hour interview to Tad SZULC in Havana she
reported him completely disillusioned with the Cuban Regime, However
CHIBAS had a definite record of Communist Party participation

and was
Suspected by ODENVY of being a CASTRO plant in the United States.
DBA 56037),

(2) - JURE Infiltration of KUBARK

(a) When VOLSKY was first in contact with JMWAVE concerni
the details of his operation, March 1963, he made a particular point <
mentioning: that he personally was convinced that none of the operatior
team participants’ was presen tly controlled by any political group. Ai
the same time, he was aware that AMICE-27 was closely connected with <
and was reporting to him (VOLSKY). Also at that time he himself was
frequently being visited in his USIA office by Rogelio CISNEROS Diaz,
member ofthe executive board of JURE.

(b) AMTAUP-2 reported on 30 April 1963 that CISNEROS, at
@ meeting held in nis home, Said that Manolo RAY Rivero, National Chie

SECRET


* SECRET

; of JURE, had issued orders to. infiltrate a trusted JURE member into
KUBARK in order to learn the details of any plans with regard to Cub
and if possible to use the contacts of Jorge VOLSKY for this since h
knew more than ten agents of KUBARK operating in the Miami area who
had been coming to him -to. gather reports emanating from Cuba.

(c) On about_30 March 1963 JURE created an Intelligence
Group within ‘its organization whose function was pedi JURE
members. into the various organizations which operate.in Miami, as
well as into agencies of thi Go" Jose *AGUIAR Fernand
201-736869, was given the job of Chief of this Intelligence Corps.
During a meeting between VOLSKY and a JMWAVE case officer on 18 July
1963, VOLSKY, when asked if he had Spotted any operational leads whic
. might be of interest to KUBARK, responded with the name slose AGUIAR:
: Iet slip that he was a member The. case officer felt that -

} - VOLSKY had made an error. when he mentioned this matter and immediate)

realized it'as the case officer had to ask Several times before VOLS!

RIAS Ge
KUBAR

: ant repeat the name. Later an AMOT source learned from Antonio

jonzalez, Propaganda Chief, that AGUIAR was making a Lisi
K age and d_ta E es 3 A

or JURE

ere ie ee Pea e ee no

: YNROIGE, owner of the Camaguey Restaurant in Mis
informed ANTAUP-2 on “S\august 1963 that he had been designated Chief
jutelligence by the National Direction Abroad of JURE. When asked by
A-2 what was his most important source of information, he replied Jos
VOLSKY who works for USIA in Miami, °

oe _ (@) AMICE-27 (VOLSKY informant) on 16 September 1963 at
a meeting with a JMWAVE case officer, reported the names of three
individuals whom he felt he could recruit for KUBARK. Among those
names was that of Raul CHIBAS whom A-27 tried inconspicuously to slip
in, making it a point to mention the other names first, The case off
felt that this was another VOLSKY inspired attempt to infiltrate a JU
man into. KUBARK,

(3) JURE Propaganda Program (VOLSKY, by virtue of his positi
in the USIA is not allowed to belong to a political organization. Ho
ever, he is .a member of the executive board of JURE and in charge of
orienting all JURE propaganda in the U. S, and in Latin America, Thi
job is held clandestinely by VOLSKY because of his USIA restrictions,

These leaflets were to include such matters as RAY's Manifesto agains
the U. S. Government and KUBARK,

a . (b) Qn 6 June 1963 RAY arrived in Miami from Puerto Rico
and went directly to the home of STSNEROS where he called a meeting ii
which he ordered That no further attacks be made on the U. S Governm
as_he was to talk to Robert KENNEDY in Washington the next day, He ti
calle fOLSKY and reported these Plans and asked him to

submit a repo)
to him, the nature of which was unknown to source, AMTAUP-2. RAY alsc

asked VOLSKY to give him information regarding the new propaganda pla:
of the USIA. ;

(c) On 27 J 1963 RAY returned to Miami from Washingtor
and where i

gained more from his Wa: hington contacts in the iast_ month than he hac

in the two previous years. He later called VOLSKY and held a converse
with him that lasted over a half hour.

(d) On 18 July 1963 VOLSKY met with a JMWAVE case officer
and stated that AMICE-27 had informed him that: KUBARK felt that he
(VOLSKY) was an informant for Manolo RAY, VOLSKY explained to the cas
officer that he only saw Manolo RAY in his line of duty as a represent
tive of USIA in the same manner that he makes contact with many of the

SECRET


Ege epeg

exile leaders, VOLSKY also stated that it was his understanding that
RAY and KUBARK had patched up their differences of past years, JMWAVE
comment: VOLSKY was aware of .RAY's feeling toward KUBARK expressed in
the following conversation held between RAY and CISNEROS. RAY said.

uy RK age a e _dange Ss he _KENNED} nin Q

KUBARK agents are more dangerou an A tration as
the Administration will end but KUBARK agents always stayed and their
memory is longer ‘than ‘that of elephants, they never forget or forgive”.

(e) On 25 July 1963 AMTAUP-2 reported a conversation be-

tween CISNEROS and VOLSKY in which they discussed a propaganda campaign
against Batistianos to be. launched soon thereafter,

. . an
(£) AMOT=-119 learned on 1 November 1963 from Max ‘LESNICK
Menendez, editor of REPLICA newspaper, that JURE pays for REPLICA's
printing and that LESNICK immediately gives a copy to Jorge VOLSKY as
Soon as it is published, (JMWAVE traces on LESNICK, 201-209258, show
that like VOLSKY, he is a Cuban citizen of Polish ori, in, He has a
background that includes association With Communist stenénts and at-
tendance at PSB and Ortodoxo leadership meetings. The purpose of the
newspaper, REPLICA, is to counter pro-BATISTA propaganda in the Cuban
exile community.) LESNICK told AMTAUP-2 that the Americans are degen-

erate because they give. money to homosexuals such as AMCORE-2 and
refuse to help him (LESNICK) and that he would take his case to Harvey

SUMM, Department of State Representative in Miami,

(s) Qi
—Station. JMWAVE, ‘by telephone in an effort
u "Cuba Despierta", taped in Miami and
broadcast daily from the Dominican Republic. Mr. SUMM stated that both
he and USIA’ thought that LESNICK had a worthwhile radio Program and
asked COS if he could insure that LESNICK receive the necessary funds
to stay on the. air, COSinformed Mr, SUMM that JMWAVE had access to a
number of radio outlets and if he or USIA had a propaganda theme or
basic message they wanted delivered to the Cuban People, KUBARK would
be glad to accommodate them if this material were in keeping with the
broad policy concepts under which JMWAVE was currently operating. Mr.
SUMM stated he was not interested in themes or programs, he was merely
interested in finding a sponsor for LESNICK and

He indicated that he intended

to check further on the matter to determine why KUBARK would not fund
LESNICK,

(h) On 4 February 1964 the newspaper PATRIA ran an attack
on George VOLSKY whom it identified as George BOSQUE (phonetic), an
official of USIA in Miami who at the same time was a member of the JURE
executive, It stated that the "little Polack of Cuba Si Yankee No"
(meaning LESNICK) received guidance from BOSQUE each week and then ‘took
pains to make it.appear that Mr, MANLEY rather than BOSQUE had received
him, REPLICA-struck back at PATRIA in an article which appeared 15
‘February 1964 Saying that they did not receive instructions from USIA
‘although they did solicit material against CASTRO and communism there.
The article further berated PATRIA for revealing the names of the
director! of the USIA office (MANLEY) and the Cuban employee who still
has relatives in Cuba (BOSQUE)!

(4) On 8 January 1964 Esteban /S.ameLas Maura, a newspaperma
in USIA, reported to AMTAUP-2 that VOLSKY urgently requested that LAMELA
take a poll among the arriving Cuban refugees to determine what they
think of JURE so that he, in turn, could report the results to Manolo
RAY in order to determine whether JURE's propaganda policy should be
changed. LAMELAS said that his USIA contract forbade him from becoming
involved in such a poll; he informed A-2 that this was not the first
time VOLSKY had used’ USIA for JURE propaganda.

4 AMTAUP-2 reported that JURE had

G) 0n.27 January 1964
finished the preparation of necessary plans to send youths to all Latin
American universities to_l e_concernin; etrayal o-
accel .

SECRET

orks


~ SECRET

(k) -On 5 February 1964 a report was made on the Bay of
Pigs Invasion by NBC television Program which had-peen shown the nig.
before, It'was noted in this‘report that Antoniof¥de la CARRERA
Betancourt, one of the producers of the program, id

August 1963 and attempted to locate persons who vere disgusted with
Ruaarey Wr. dela CARRERA Sought the 2dvicg of Manolo Bay and Jorge
yy)

VOLSKY Although de 1a, CARRERA posed as a non-
Political NBC assistant, he is a member of the JURE in New York City

~ (1) 0n'20 February 1964 at a luncheon attended. by Mr,
Conrad MANLEY and COS, JMWAVE, the latter asked MANLEY if he knew th:
VOLSKY maintained Particularly close contact with JURE and the UR. }
MANLEY indicated that, he was not aware of this, but that he would at:
to monitor this: matter more closely in the future, and, if he develo)
any information of interest on this matter, he would forward it to-
JMWAVE on an expeditious basis, A.

: ~Ata_l April 1964 meeting, Harvey
SUM told COS that he agreed that VOLSKY was probably SZULG's beset:
“Elon of USYA-and tat he Was conesrned by TES soe eT ee ene

. (m), AMBLEAK-1 reported he was invited by John BARFIELD

the local State Department office to attend a formal meeting with eig
Argentine Deputies visiting Miami, This meeting took place on 28 Mar
1964 at the Montecarlo:Hotel in Miami from 9:30 to 11:30 AM. A-1
attended and noted the presence of several JURE members, The meeting
. Qpened with general questioning, and it immediately became: apparent
that the JURE representatives wanted to monopolize the meeting, Wher
question was asked concerning the failure of the inside Cubans to sur
port the Invasion, CISNEROS grabbed the floor and filibustered for
almost.an hour before he could be interrupted by BARFIELD to announce
breakfast. A-1 Stated that the lengthy intervention by CISNEROS was
embarrassing to the other Cubans but they refrained from interrupting
in order to show Solidarity in front of the visitors, A-l' stated tha
the presence of AMICE-27 and two USIA members led him to believe that
USIA was responsible for the guest list and that therefore Jorge VOLS
picked the "so called Cuban leaders that attended the meeting".

(4) JURE Operations

-(@) On 13 July 1963 CISNEROS approached Esteban LAMELAS
Maura and requested information from and concerning Cuba in order to
facilitate the infiltration of JURE members-into Cuba. When LAMELAS
refused to give that type of information, CISNEROS said he would see
VOLSKY and get it from him.

(b) On 8 January 1964 AMTAUP-2 reported that VOLSKY call:
Jose AGUIAR Fernandez to his USIA offices to interview two refugees wi
Were interested in receiving training and returning to Cuba to fight
CASTRO; . AGUIAR: Fernandez told A-2 that VOLSKY spotted refugees for
-ledds and submitted reports on them to JURE. He added that VOLSKY
liverts refugees from contacting or reporting any information to KUBA)
nforminy em that RK is the enemy of the Cubans who want to
2 :

d. VOLSKY's Relationship with the UR

(1) AMBLEAK-1, member of the UR and an old. friend of VOLSKY,
yeported the following’ brief resume of their acquaintance. A-1 met
VOLSKY at a party in Santiago de Cuba shortly after VOLSKY married (1¢
and for reasons A-1 no longer remembers, VOLSKY sought him out social]
In Miami A-1 maintained a casual relationship with VOLSKY during the
period January to October 1962, VOLSKY then sought him out to aid Tac
SZULC by interpreting for him, During the first half of 1963, VOLSKY
began to drop in at A-1's home to talk to him about Cuban exile activi
“Apparently these contacts had no clandestine overtones and A-1 in his

SECRET

-12-


ee “SECRET

A-1's purpose in. drafting this Paper was to raise morale among UR acti
types and at the same time prepare a war Plan which might be used to
KUBARK appréval for increased .clandestine activity within the UR.” A-
Showed this plan to his JMWAVE case officer, who disliked it as he fe
it. would whip up UR enthusiasm for the development of an active clan-
destine arm within the UR and that this was not desired, On the nigt
of 1 May 1963 A-1 gathered with AMICE-27 and others at his home to wc
on the draft again.. A-27 took the draft home with him, stating that
just wished to polish it up a little. The following morning A-27 cal
A~l and said that he had had a lucky idea and had passed the paper tc
VOLSKY who was an experienced writer of policy papers and who liked t
paper very much, VOLSKY told A-27 that he would get in touch with
AMBLEAK-1 directly to discuss the paper, After about a week of phone
calls from VOLSKY, A-I agreed to see him and subsequently met him and
received his original paper back, A-1 then began to be plagued by
visits from. VOLSKY at the UR offices plus phone calls in which VOLSKY
entreated A-1l to take the paper to Harvey SUMM.

(2) On 18 July 1963 at a meeting between VOLSKY and a JMWAVE
case officer, VOLSKY stated he had recently undertaken to assist the
in the propaganda field,. He said that the UR was starting a new dail
radio program over a New York radio station, lasting twenty minutes a
day, and, that.it will-be, specifically tailored to attempt to increas
the will to resist within Cuba and particularly attempt to reach the
higher military echelons. VOLSKY said he had originally written all
the VOA breadcasts’ for over a year after he came to Miami and that he
therefore could greatly assist the UR'with their new program, Asked
whether the UR had anybody to write the program or whether he would
actually write it himself, VOLSKY said that the UR has one good man b
that he himself expected to have a major hand in editing the program,

He said that because of this he was Spending a great deal of time at
Headquarters,

e.(SMWAVE Analysis) VOLSKY is in contact with a large Segment «
the influential members of the exile community, This is the conseque:
of his USIA position which affords him the opportunity to make these :
tacts to solicit information for propaganda purposes, AMING-2 report:
that VOLSKY is on a first name basis with many of the leaders of coun’
revolutionary groups whom he frequently phones or sees in his office.
(AMING~2 does not trust VOLSKY and thinks that he might be a foreign
agent although he has no facts upon which to base his opinion.) VOLS!
main exile community contacts are members of JURE as described in par:
graph 6.c., he himself being responsible for all JURE propaganda, By
his own admission, he is now close to the top echelon of the UR, resp
sible for the direction of a UR radio propaganda program. As seen fr
the foregoing, [VOLSKY has maneuvered himsel? into a remarkably advan=
ageous and influential position regarding U. S, Government and Cuban
“According to 7 he claim:
ito be anticommunist, says that he lost substantial investments in Cut
when he had to flee, and that he is single-mindedly interested in ove:
throwing the CASTRO Government, Although this motivation may be true,
VOLSKY is a shrewd individual and his motivation may be considerably

more complex. VOLSKY's Imowledge of clandestine methods of operation
coupled with

| Be Bise, VOLSRY Is violating his USA pasition b ne to
and damaging the U. S. and KUBARK image by his propaganda programs,

7. VOLSKY's Current Knowledge of JMWAVE Operational Activity

a, YOLSKY was in contact with JMWAVE for a period o. i

£_ten months i
rough November) directly through COS, JMWAVE; Irving
PEGGINS; and Stanley R. ZAMKA. AMICE-14 stated that AMICE-27 had

varenees the complete operational details of his infiltration ops _to
and 3 , It can therefore be assumed that VOLSKY has obtaine

SECRET

-13 -


ae!

_ seeret? ?

bo" 4 a good picture of RK modus operandi in the fi

i Because of the high-level objectives of the AMTRUNK operation and AM)
/ three trips'to ZRMETAL for conferences, and the fact that only PBPRIN
H Anstructors were use: ain A-27, he has met a greater humber of |
} staffers than most ree Vice 7 has been trained in the JMWAVE <
i in tradecraft, secret writing, OWVL, weapons, maritime reception, mat

and compass, and survival, He has never been either to (ISOLATION) or
(SoTROPIC) 7 of
eo

b. The following KUBARK staff employees were in contact with AMI
and are therefore considered known to VOLSKY:

Andrew K. REUTEMAN as Tag Brickham
‘Willard’ R,ANAUMAN as -AlfRodemeyer
~ Stanley R, ZAMKA as Dr.) Manuel*Mendez

: Irving N. PEGGINS as Joe! Webster
Hobart J, VANDEBORN as TonllMesard
Rueben A, HANNULA as Fred Folsom
Leon C. FLUTEO' ~ . as OscarlGuerra .
Keith D, WINETT as Jim (LCFLUITER Operator)

; : Paul I, NAPOLILLI as Paul (LCFLUTTER Operator)

H . Aubrey R, PARANT - +. a8 Randy (Training Instructor) .
Alton T. PIRNACK . as Larry (Training Instructor)
Stuart V. KAPRIDNO as Dewey (Training Instructor)
Fletcher K, THENE as Harry (Training Instructor)
Andrew S$, PARMERS as Angel Martin (Training

: . Instructor )

Thomas L. DARGUZIS as Dan (Training Instructor)
Paul V. MENDECINO as Ted (Training Instructor)
Wilfred B. KNEAFSY as Pete (Training Instructor)

"c, On 19 November 1963 in a_meeting with COS, PEGGINS, and AMICE
the purpose of which was to offer A-27 a position in the Station's

MHAPRON Radio Program, A-27 said that he had written letters to VOLSK
nd informi: them that Operation Leonardo had been terminated,
A-27 was told that from the Security standpoint this was advantageous
and not to say anything more about it to these individuals, Neverthe
A=27 is still ii 2 Ae i

as Shown in the following AMTAUP-2 report: On 8 March 196
Jose AGUIAR told LAMELAS that YOLSKY still meets very frequentl with

o work in the JMWAVE area, At one of these
meetings AMICE-27 informed VOLSKY that AMTAUP-2 was possibly a KUBARK
agent. . . :

d. Recent Contact 4

(1) On 20 February 1964 CISNEROS and VOLSKY left Miami for N
York, Yater to go to ZRMETAL. The two were to contact a KUBARK offic
there, a contact which VOLSKY had previously arranged.

(2) On 24 March 1964 AMBLEAK-1 stated that VOLSKY phoned him
to obtaip his opinion as to whether there were to be any major Cuban
exile strikes against Cuba during May. A-1 replied that he did not tl
so, but VOLSKY pressed him saying, "Are you absolutely sure or are yo
being very discreet?"

e, VOLSKY is in contact with the following active JMWAVE agents:

(1) AMBLEAK-1 (UR and socially)
. 1 (VOLSKY probably aware of his
. KUBARK connections)

(2) AMICE-27 (MHAPRON Radio program)
(VOLSKY aware of KUBARK
connections)

(3) AMING-1 (Exile group leader)

. (VOLSKY possibly aware his
dup] : KUBARK connections)

a SECRET

-14-


3pel

(4) AMLAME-1
d

. oY ;
(5) (Gsuardo SOTOLONGO Medina) ”

co)
(6) (Mario SEIGLIE Montoro)

(7) AMTAUP-2

(8) AMoT-119

(Exile group leader)
(Not known whether VOLSKY 7
aware KUBARK connection)

(ur)
(VOLSKY probably aware ex-KUB
connection)

(UR)

(VOLSKY aware KUBARK connecti
since (SEIGLIE under AMICE-27
influence) jy

(JURE executive)
(VOLSKY suspects him of being
KUBARK agent)

(VOA ~ daily contact)
(not known whether VOLSKY awa:
Probably not)

