# 104-10100-10119

## Page 1

104-10100-10119,

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

3

-SLET 6S

MUNICH

3001:

•142

63751

TERE

HE SN

NAIR

J100

902.

PEBAND

BUNI, HASO

VaaN

BEL? FRAr

SAHE

RATE Fat

DART.

BEYY

RAGH

BOSS HAY

ALMA

BES

12-22

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

KATANGART LOSTAVIZATION & CURAN ATR DAFENSE SYSTEM: : MISSILE.

SITE I ELACATIGNS LEE FIGITAN IBLAPLOYSINTO SUGGEST A SHIFT FAOL

.

ISLAND DIS CIVIDACE TO FOINT ASPANIN OF MAJON iNSTALLATIONS BIPORI

TRATSVEBRIFO MI SYSTEN TO CUBAN COTTROL. THE GIANGE TO IBIS

#ALETICATED SAN GUIDANCE RADAR EQUIPISHT, AFPAHANTLY FING ELDE

BEFORE CUBANS NEGIN FIBLD FRANZING, HAS MIDUCEN RANGE CAPARILITY

EIG-218 HAVE MEN DATING FIOM THE TRAINING BASE TY THREF OTIEH

AIRFIELDS, POSBIRLY AS PAST OF TUE OVERAIL MSUNA! IZATIRI OF TIUS

AIR DEPENSE SYSTEN.

1. SINO DOVIST RELATIDHS BAY BE ADSANACHING NET CLIMAX: THERE

AÑS GROWING INDICATIONS TRAT ROUTRI LEADERO A CONGINSNINU CUNVENINi

A SISY INTERNATIONAL COMUNIST HEATING, PARSUMABLY TO EXPLOIT PEIPIN 'S

NECTION OP THI HUCLHAR TEST BAN TUBATY, DECIBION TO CALL BUCH A

SNSOINAZCE QUACKS

.C. I. R

AUTHEN

TICATIM

15370

---

## Page 2

Heidare

:42

in s??

*72.

CONTRISNCE, OSCANIZED ALCIO LIFRA THE CHINEEE COULD FOT ACCEPT, BULLI

INDICATE À DELIBIRATE EUFORT TO PROVONE COMS CHINISE ACTION SHICH

SE USCE CALD ESPERATY AS FIIPING'S PORLAL VOLONTARI SEPARATION

2. CHIESE COMUNIST HATTURAS DAY: YOR TRE FUUMIL CONSELCIIVE

VRAR, THE CELSESATIUAS AVOIASO GOAETS CE MILITARY AND ECONOMIC

AND CAUTICUS ANGUT ECOLONE FEOGERRA AND PROSFACTE.

3. COMUNIST CHIRA - EUTTI XOLLA: LIU EAARCHIS VISIT TO NORT:

ÁGERÓ FÃO A SNO ISPANY TO TIGHTIN POLITICAL, MILITAS. AND ECONCHIE

FIRS. NE ÁTÁLANTUÜ PAILER IX NIS ATTIEPTE TO BABROIL THE LOHEANS

SVSE EI DISPLY IN TAL LOMA SOVIST STRLUGLE. IGE CONMSITI IT

HIS DELIGATION SUGGESTB BIJOR SUBSTANTITE MATTERS SENE LA TIE MGIGLI

(00517)

SEPPACR-TRAIR MIBSIL DEVELOPISITY IN CONTINISI CHISA:11: 1'2"

JINULÃO CUROTRUNCIÓN Il 21779, MEDITE LACI OF SOVIET AID, SUGESIS

CSINA 1S LITELÁPITO A CAPIBILITY TO PRODOCI SURPACE-TO AIA MISSILI.

ANO ESZATII INCIPIT PIITTI OILI EN IASTALLEO AS AT DAUSSO AVAILAULE.

DES TAR, OLT QUE ON PER 14 CRAPLSTIA SITES 19 EROUN TO RATI NJ. TIS

17 C 8

5308

---

## Page 3

S

т3..

1504

EQUIPLANT RECESSARY TO PILL A SISSILA.I!

5. DEVELOPIENTS IN COLTINIET GRAIN PURCRASES: IT NOR SESHS

CERTATN THAT THE DESR WILL INTUAT AT LEAST I MILLION TONS OF WHEAT

CHINA HAS NOT YET STARTED METOTTATIEG CONTACTS POR 1954 DELIVER

BUT IF

WILL PROBABLY HEED ABOUT 5 ILLION TONE, 1UF FUFUEAN

SATELLINES HAVE HOGUN BASKING VISAT IN TUS WEST. SOVIET NEUSPAPERS

ARE POINTING TO A LOUNTING PHUSURN OP MIND BROSION OF THE CIE

IN THE NEY LANDS. (CONT)

• 6. PETR IVASHUTIN:/ /NEY SOVIST SILITARY INTELLIGENCE CHIEP: . TE

APFOINTIENT OP A DEPUTY SECDST FOLICH CHIEF TO REPLACE IVAN SEROV

WHO WAS SACKED AFTER TIL FITSUISY CASE, PROBABLY RISKAZA SIGNALS

A BACURITY CHACK-DOWN WHICH COULD LONER MOHALE AND FAMDER MASCOW'S

INTELLIGIRCE COLLECTION AFVOT AT LEAST APORARILY. /:

T. LAOS: //DITH THB ADVENT OF THS DRY SRASON, COMINIST FORCES

HAVE RESUMED LABGE-SCALE CONVOY OPERATIONS INTO LAUS ALONG THE

SECRATLY ESOPSALL EDUTE 7. A SUBSTANTIAL INFUBION OF THOOPS AND

JUXELIDS FION MURTTi VISTIAN iN LINICATED DURING THE PAST PHO VREXS.

ISHNUED CONVOY ACTIVITY LAS ALSO BEEN ERPORTED ALONG ROLES 12 ZH

DOVTI-CANTRAL LAOS. TIESE MOYSAINTS MAY PARBARE A NIHIVAL OF MILITARY

T 1C199

SILAST

---

## Page 4

TACK

THAT THE HEATERS HAS INPRIYZO AND SINCE DUE POLITICA

ANEUVERS OF THE PATHET LAD WERE FRUITLASS PICNIEL SOUVANNA PLANS

TO

SE 0GZT GENERA, LOPIR ART CUSCON BATORS ASTURNING TAS VIENTIANE

SUEDULE TO SETIER TO THE COUNTRY AYTER A THA BONTE STAY. IN THE 163K.

THE CONSUEVATIV&S SII VERY

ANNUAL CONPRURICR ON 9-12 OCTODER IN MORE TRANQUIL POLITIGAR 012-

CHESTANCES THAN SORON MiND, SORTE AND INE FORSICILIT DE 1 8:15

AUTION ELECTION RAS ARTIGATED, AND TUE DRUMINE HEPORT METER TO !!

MISURATED THE TIRRAT OY PRATHER SINISTERIAL SCANDALS MERENT O

PARTY STRATIGIST HAS TOLD EMPASSY OPPICIALS THAT MACHILIDE ELiA, MU

STIRE FATIL DISME IN AIREBERT FIT! IN PARTY I MIE BICCESSOE

д. .

SO TAKE GEFICE Vi :E OCTOSES, HAS ASCBIVER AN CREXPECTED POLITICAL

DITIONAD IN TEB 28 ABPTEN

#15 PARTY,

815390

---

## Page 5

HE"T

-5-

7304

THE CHRISTIAN DEEOCRATIC UNION (CUU), FOLLED 28.3 PERENT ON TIE VOTE.

FOR A GAIN OF NINE SEATS IN THE PROTIFCIAL LEGISLATURE, THE TRADITION-

ALLI DONINANT SOCIAL DENOCRATS DROPPED FIDEY SRATS SVEN THOGH TUET

HELD TEZIR MIN MAJORITY OF THA VOTE AT ABOUT THE SAIL LEVEL--S4 PERCENT--

AS IN THE LAST BLECTION. THE PRINCIPAL SEASON FOR TUF. COY SUCCESS

APPRARS TO RAVE EREN THE DSTERIORATION OF TUS SPLINTER GERMA" PARTY,

AND THE RALLYING OF CONBENVATIVE VOTERS BAHEND THE CIL. (CONF)

1D. FRANCE: //THE PESNCA DAVY CONTINUAS TO GIVE HIGFEST PRIORITY

TO THE DESIGN AND CONSTUUCTICN OF A NUCLEAR-PONSERD, FOLARIS-TYPE

SUBMARINE, 1 PROJECT ABSORBING OVER HALF OF THE NAV'S 1933-15

RESSARCH AND DEVELOPIENT FUNDS. DESPITE PUBLIC CLAIMS THAT THE

FIRST SUBMARINE TILL BI AVAILABUB IN 1559, DELAYS IN TIB DEVELOPHANT

OF SOMB COUPONINTS MARE IT UNLINELY THAT TIS FIRST HUCLEAR BOAT CAN

BE DEPLOYRD ON STATION BEFORE 1973.1/

END OP ASSBAGB

"OLCASING O! ICIA

COORDINA

ING

CIVICIES

cancamer

i Sturb

RECRIT

THAN THRESSING DER

Besia tarion

I FROHIRITEN

65.1.

15390 Ne

---

