1490000
104-10140-10045 [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

(ETAME AND ) ADDRESS

ipa =
2 |

YT ePACTION |___Joirecr repy | [PREPARE REPLY
Y“Tarenovar |] owsearcn |

Remarks:

7
FOLOt HEAE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: Wy » ADDRESS AND IONE NO.

|} Fa pe none ppg ae]

UNCLASSIFIED |_| CONFIDENTIAL eee

=a
FoR HO. 237 Use previous editions

|_| approvaL —s'|_| DISPATCH |__| RECOMMENDATION

[[commenr | True | Rerun
| __[concurrence | ['inrormarion {| signature
a ee

Remarks:

| Cg BOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

| FRA: Name, aporess AND yysGnge | bare |

hth EZ \/tph)
PrONCLASSIFIED [~ | CONFIDENTIAL [| Secney)

(40)
Foam xO. 937 Use previous editions



“UNCLASSIFIED [| [ CONFIDENTIAL
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

[ inimiacs |

PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENDATION.

10 HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

Foam 0. 937 Use previous editions


”

ity

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel Page 10

Tuesday ~- 8 November 1977

37. (Confidential - PG) LIAISON Received a telephone call
from Michael Glennon, Legal Counsel, Senate Foreign Relations

38. (Internal Use Only - PG) LIAISON Spent the better part
of the afternoon in the Coordination & Review staff conference room with
Michael J. Hershman, Deputy Staff Director, Subcommittee on
International Organizations, House International Relations Committee,
Also present were DDO representatives Evalina Vid obert Brewster
(for only the beginning of the Meeting) owe discussed
the Subcommittee's request to make certa: information public:-
and Mr. Hershman gave us a summary he had Prepared for the use of
Members at upcoming public hearings, Mrs, \will review the.
summary and sanitize it as necessary, The remainder of the session
was spent in an exchange of views as to CIA's role in ongoing
Congressional investigations of ROK/KCIA and related subjects,

39. (Internal Use Only - RIK) LIAISON Spoke with Lot Cooke,
on the staff of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, concerning
William R, Harris, a consultant with the Committee who also works
for the Rand Corporation, Since Harris has already been briefed at ™
Rand on compartmented clearances, it will not be necessary for him to
receive a briefing on them at this time. Jack Williamson, SO/DCI,
has been advised. :

Cooke also requested the clearances held by Professor G. Robert
Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, House Select Committee on
Assassinations, ang Gary Cornwell, of the sta » because t
review a sensitive Committee document, After checking with Dan Godar,
OS, I advised him that they had their Proper clearances for reviewing
the documents, a

40. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Spoke with Betsey Wolf,
House Select Committee on Assassinations staff, and offered to send to
her a copy of the document she reviewed here yesterday. The document
was an index of Freedom of Information Act exemptions on documents
involving the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. 1902 ge

#

