# 104-10310-10061

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10310-10061

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

38

Review Staff:

75/2723/a

Date

6 September 1975

TO

• =

CIA Task Force

FROM

.: The Review Staff,

SUBJECT : SSC/HS& Request

RECEIVED: Date

Walter Elder

Time

The attached package on Ford-Fiscalini will

hopefully help. the DDO search for information.

Comments:

Action

SC/DCI

A/ DDA

CA/ DDI

A/DDO

A/DDS&T

OGC

OLC

IG

Into

X

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

Please return to Review Staf

SEP 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Review Staff

VIA

SUBJECT

5 SEP 1975

Senate Seloct Comnittee Request

(Charles Ford)

1.

Reference is made to a 28 August 1975 memorandum

from the Review Staff (75/2723), which contains a request

from Mr. Mike Madigan, Senate Select Conmittee Staff, for

infornation concerning the possible use by the Agency of

one Charles Ford to establish contacts with the underworld

for possible use against Fidel Castro. Referenced request

indicated that Charles Ford was an Agency officer, who was

utilizing the name

"Rocky Siscalini."

2.

A revion of

closed both an overt and covert file on one Charles D. Ford

•(SP

#38 497), a current Agency employee serving with the

Office of Training/Deputy Directorate for Administration.

Cited files disclosed that circa 1962-1963, Charles D. Ford

was issued official alias documentation under the name

"Charles D. Fiscalini."

3.

Charles D. Ford has been an Agency staff employee

since 1952.

The Office of Security files relating to MI. Ford

do not contain any information which would indicate he had

been used to contact underworld figures for possible use

against Fidel Castro. However, in November 1961 Mr. Ford was

assigned to the Deputy Directorate for Operations, Western

Hemisphere Division as an Operations Officer. A memorandum

contained in his files, dated 30 March 1962, indicates that

Mr. Ford was issued alias documentation under the name of

"Charles D. Fiscalini." Cited memorandum further indicates

that Mr. Ford was then assigned to "Task Force W," and was

to travel to New York on 31 March 1962 to meet with an un-

identified attorney who had contacted Mr. Robert Kennedy, the

then Attorney General, concerning assistance for Cuban prisoners.

SECRET

EZIMPDST

CL BY 06334#

OS 5-7628/A

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Nevilla

Hr. Ford's files reflect that he was reissued this alias docu-

mentation in February 1963, to be utilized "in the Continental

U.S. for operational purposes in pursuit of the mission of the

Special Affairs Staff." On 10 July 1963, cited alias documen-

tation was returned to Headquarters, noting that Mi. Ford was

being reassigned within the Agency and would no longer require

the use of the alias documentation.

4.

As stated, Mr. Ford's Office of Security files contain

no information concerning the specific nature of his duties on

behalf of the western Hemisphere Division, Task force w, or the

Special Affairs Staff.

Attached hereto are copies of the perti-

nent menoranda referred to herein, which are dated during the

1961-1963 period. These documents have been sanitized in

accordance with established procedure.

Prior to the release

of these documents to the Senate Select Committee, it is recom-

mended that the entire package be coordinated with the Deputy

Diractor for Operations.

Rhetor tan

Robert W. Gambino

Director of Security

Att

Distribution:

Orig &

2 - Addressee w/3 sanitized atts

1 - DDA

2

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

5THN0970 FORY MO, dL

Offica Memorandum • UNITBD STATES GOVERNMENT

IO

File

Dizzs IB pitig 6

nos, Sitre

ovgari Fors, Chanle 1.

03

*38÷97

ti te wetalne dl(eeta1

Ta te cipne Beagein dre enie

int TEli tti ngeniet tli nisiie

Mammoperot aca142e

???::

pis,

---

## Page 5

13-00000

10 Mda 2149

: 2000004 20A: O22isa of Jocurity

AFTER CECH

12E.3

JB.301

: 020/55, CIA Cover Employee

: CIA IO Card- Grarles ü. Ford.

3, Faturned herarita is Subjaci's GI: D Gard ncicer 3015, mad

his sta o card nuncer 3924 in his rajistera, alisa, charlos Do PISGILDS:

i. Ford is laaving SiS for another igoney asaignsent which vill not

regire una use oi those documents.

2. later any questions to

G. A, Ladras, Do, Clo Security, set. 5007.

attachments:

Id Gard No. 3715

Si: 15 Card 310, 3924

ca: 000/05

Desnoce Firteraid

Chiel,

318

2E7

---

## Page 6

13-00000

29 abrary :963

MIEVORANDUN FOR: Chial, Physical Security Dirision

MITRATION

SUBJECT

: Badge Offce

: Charles D. FORD (T)

(Request for CiA Idantification Card in alias)

1.. It ig requested that a Chi identification cars, valid or one •

year, be issued to the Subject in his registared alias, Charles D.

Fiscalisi. This card will be utilized in the Contnental J. S. for

aparational purposes in pursuit of the mission of the Special Atairs

Stafi. Subject currently holds CLA identification card No. 3129 in

alias waich till expire 31 March 1963.

3. Photogzaphs of the Subject are on file in se Brige Clace

zad is physical description follows:

Aze

neight :

raigat :

Ejes

:

Fair

$1

3 Et. 4 In.

230

Grey

: SEawn

Upon issuance, please call CIA Cover Empt, 5.15/Sacurity

est/ Dateer, Extension 6055, who will pick un the nem ca=1 and rabarn the

whica expires 31 March 1963.

This Plai

HOWARD I. PRESTON

C/SA3/302=5RT

26 Fa 63,

(is

tia cament:

Blaz' ID Curd

1438497

---

## Page 7

13-00000

(

2 10zil 1902

SOLSTIN TOR: Dogaby Director os jecurity, (Personnel

Objaical Support)

: CIA Cover Employeeize Crea

Charles D, Ford

This till contra verbal sequest by Mr. d. d. VuluLE, Ji:

to it. Robert BREaDi on 30 arco 1562 for expedite issuance of a

JIl crocential to Subject in the allas attached.

inds credential is required to permit Subjact to contact

"ithin the inited States, as an piticial representati?a oi this

igency, indiricals to shes cil interest sut not to true lostity

o= Subject tast be disclosed.

The coogeration of le. thris Gius and in. irazis alpat,

and of your silice, in expediting issuance of this enacenari is

fs/.

Chiel, Toil/Securios

tacorens:

Idartin! Theat

"=:

ĐT./2

•2.01

c.19?1

---

## Page 8

13-00000

132238

:..!

3102

Jaa:

---

## Page 9

13-00000

ME CALDUM ECR: Chief, SD/2

FROM

: C. S. Citas

SUZJECI

FORD, Charles D.

$38497

1. (a 30 March 1962 Jeiry Mullete, Wa Securluy Orilcer Tercally

requested Seculty cyproval for the issuence ai an Allas CIA Ideztif1-

Charles D.

cata do Pole epical Subject as altar to de used 1s

FISCALÊII.

inllane explaired that the Subject Is assizced to lask Force

Ward is scheduled to travel to few York on 31 March IS6e to contact

an atterey in that city.. The few Iork attorney reportedly contacted

I. Robert Kermedy, Attorney General, and offerred his samrices to help

sare of the Cubarcurisorers vino are curently scheduled for trial 11

Cuoz. Mullane aârised that the Attorney Ceneral relerred the estter to

the Agency. with instructions to follon throusa.

3. I gave a verbal Security auroral to employee

CS Badga

Oifice for the

March 1563;

for purposes of backstogging in the eveat aay

Inquintes came 11 over the wees-end. Further, I callad Dotüla fuser

Qrfice of Fersonel, and furnished her the Subject's alies for ba

stoppitz purposes so that she would be in a posizion to acinorledge

the subject under that alias 1 response to any lagitimate inquiries.

IDas/ics

4. In addition tothe foregolnz, I called the es file Boon and

regrested that an indices card in the Suojaci's allas be prepared.

M232/IOSi

10/10

5.: The foregoing transvired late this date on an expedite basis.

This is sabmitted for record purposss.

5/209

C/d3

9,23

..:13

CITAS /16

2a0g

C. So Gras

Trited in Thes

1 0/3ĐI

307

---

## Page 10

13-00000

тоот!!.

HERDELARTERS

DATE

I AUG 19$2

TO

: Special Agent in Charge

SUBJECT: Meu tork Picla Offica

Letter drob

TYPE OF P.O.

DAME OF BOXHOLDER

ESTASLISH

Subj aca

ADD

3.

CO-ADDRESSEE

CO-ADDRESSES

CoD.

FISCAL TI

CArCEL

ОТНЕР

5PE5

1205/125

ISST/I$S

C/C.7

"::

E

SĐ/ 3

BOX ACTIOY REQUESTED

REFERENCE

roquo Dancrandu:

15 Macc 198 .

LOCATION OF BOX

letter drop

SERVICING SCHEDULE

Inice tires besily

SUBMIT

INTERIM REPCRI

DOC-FINAL

REPORT SY. (Date)

REPORT ON P.O. BOX SERVICE

lisauire Division

PAUL Ta

IDATE

STATE

i88a5g

1197S

43: 427/

CIA Cover Employee

1 w1g, 1952

23:02.G

71,24

ICTION ACCOMPLISHEN BY (jane)

CITY

38497

ZUMPDEr EL argE 14:22.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

1 AUE 1982

TO

ATCANI. :

FRON

SUBJECI:

Cizeng Taor Herco k

Lapuby Fircator di Security Certatigatone nd Sugrses)

LETTER ADDRESS

1. Reference is made to your canades dacca jady sa

which requested that the name

5. 21S04,21

be added to

the Subject letter address:

2. This Is to advise that the ranel. Do FISCALIS has

been added as a co-addressee to the folloiring address:

Letter drop

Bas Joan By Tes Toas

•3. You are requested to advise this Office when this address is:

no longer needed. Any inquiries concerning this facilit scold be

directed to the SD/3 Desk of this Offica, Roch ES T3. langley, Extension 6S=1.

FOR THE DIRECIOR OF SECURITY:

DS/I00

ADDS/I05

ASST/255

#38 497

C/ID CIA Cover Employée

C10522 dogs 1902

•÷2D

'T2

C/SAB

9/5 3

152-210

ANTS

i tele 38805320003

---

## Page 12

13-00000

30 JuLT 1902

ATITISH

303,J307

5D/3, CIA Cover Employee

Latter Address

1. It is renaasted that the name C. D. FISCINI (1) 30 added

a conaddresses to the jubject facility:

Letter drop

New Jors 3, M. I.

Aum: mr. Charles cut, Specia

issistant, /Tel.

JON E. SULE

Chiei or Support

Bask Force a

SEGRET

110:9? 2:1

---

