# 104-10419-10003

## Page 1

1704-10419-10003

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F, KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

n721

SUBjECT: - (Optionai)

CIA letter to the Rockefeller Commission, dated

• 7 June 1975

Requested by John S. Taylor & Dan P. Carroll

26-3224

F 76-583

FROM:

Don Ders Marian Stoyanac

EXTENSION

IPS/DDA 2E42 DX-2

X7486

6400

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

R9271

9581

DATE

28 September 1976

SUSPENSE DATE

12 October 1976

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS Number each commen! lo show from whom

do whom. Drom a line across column after eact commenr.)

Mr. Paul Hildebrand

DCI/FIO

F-1 Amber, GX-2 pls. relay

Mr. Samour Bollen

FORWARDED.

9-282 00771

ior ses

IGI

Seatt Breckonis

$5.

In addition to the final

report, the requesters are asking

for any and all attachments.

Please review and determine

its release or denial.

Should this request become

quite costly, we ask that you

send us an estimate of fees for

the requesters.

Thank you

1.7

In appiopicato achon

and response ly

suspense dalo

disc 2-785

2-4: Trousfersed to

You ser our telecon.

ETURN TO,

PRIORITY HANDLING FOIA REQUEST

15 3749

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

vpv

---

## Page 2

13-00000

I 00 84'76 AUSTIN CIZIZENS COMMISSION OF INQUIRY

. Ser 28

8709 Crestridge Clicle

Austin, Texas

78759

Tele: (512) 258-5938

Working Copy

F-76-583

September 24, 1976

LOG/501A

Freedom of Information Coordinator

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Sir:

Ihis is a request under the Freedom of Information Act as

amended (5 U.S.C. 552).

I write to request a copy of the

CIA letter to the Rocke-

feller Comnission dated June 7, 1975.

To avoid any possible misunderstanding. of what is being

requested, I make reference to the Final Report of the Select

Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to

Intelligence Activities, Book V. The Government Printing Of-

fice date of publication 1s April 23, 1976. The reference to

the note is made on page 58, footnote 65. My request includes

any and all attachments of this letter as transmitted to the

Rockefeller Commission by your organization.

As you know, the amended act provides that if some parts

of a file are exempt from release that "reasonably segregable"

portions shall be provided. I therefore request that, if you

determine that some portions of the requested document are

exempt, you provide me immediately with a copy of the renain-

der of the letter. I, of course, reserve my iight to appeal

any such decisions.

If you determine that some or all of the letter 1s exempt

from release, I would appreciate your advising me as to which

exemptions or exemption you belleve covers the material which

you are not releasing.

My organization is prepared to pay reasonable costs for

locating the requested document and reproducing it.

As you know, the amended act permits you to waive or reduce

the fees if that

"is in the public interest because furnishing

the information

can be considered as primarily benefiting the

public." I belleve that this request plainly fits that category

and ask that you waive any fees.

If you have any questions regarding this FOIA request, please

telephone me at the above number.

As provided for in the amended act, I will expect to receive

a reply within ten

(10) working days.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

We appreciate the cooperation which we hope we will receive

and look forvard to future requests.

Our address and telephone number are listed above.

Thank you.

Sincerely,

aroll

Dan P. Carroll, Ass't. Director

?..:

=.::

JST/bb

enc :0

---

