~TWHEN FILEEO.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS:

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F: KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PRIOR TO FILING z

TO: ACTION BRANCH

1, Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach’ back :fldp
and forward to RID.

2, Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records,
significant action taken or comments requir-
ing preservation,

Ik 2. aes are not proper,
insert prope! ‘dow and forward
document to an. ‘

FROM:

RID/

PROPER FICE NO-

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

BID/AN =: 6

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON OACK, IF APPROPRIATE

R

DATE.

Room ormicars
No. Fomwanoea | INTALS

ip

COMMENTS

OS - 2/565, BG

Declassified and Approved for Release
by the Central intelligence Agency

Date: OOS

FR

FILE TLE

ApsTRACT

VIETNAT)

10a YE raegus

ee
a

a

FICE NUMBER [PRIMARY CODET



13-00000

HE ee EEE EEE WEEE EAE

(ee eee eer Siem {

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE OF REPORT

BACKGROUND DATA AND COMMENTS:

1, DISSEM 1 TD.

ALSO SEE FIELD COMMENT.

AN FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED
AS RELIABLE. ‘ON THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC:
OF VIETNAM PROBABLY WAS MAKING THE ARRANGEMENTS DESCRIBED-

3. PARI 1267 /UNION REPORT DATED 24 OCTOBER/

4, ON INDEX

OPTIONAL: ENTRIES BELOW NEED NOT BE FILLED IN IF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANYING REPORT |

DISTRIBUTION

INTRA-AGENGY

BY TAPE BY POUCH 1-STATE

3-HQS 15-STATION 1-ARMY

2-HULA 1-NHA TRANG 1-NAVY
1-CAN THO 1-AIR

NO. OF ENCLOSURES

EAaeney (

8-USMACV
2-MAAG
1-USOM
1-USOM/PSD
2-9TH FLO. STA.1-USIS

‘SUBJECT REFERENCES

© PASSAGE REQUESTED FOR 35
NORTH VIETNAMESE TO FLY TO CUBA

FORM 1467 Use eS thal

2-60 previous
EDITION.

(209

-
:
~s
aS


1. BY 24 OCTOBER 1963 THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM /ORV/

MINISTRIES OF EDUCATION AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS HAD ASKED THE ORV
EMBASSY IN PRAGUE TO RESERVE AIR PASSAGE TO. CUBA FOR 35 PERSONS
opened: WERE 10 LEAVE: OLRECTEY -FORSHAVANA «PRON “PRAGUE “OR MOSCOW ON”

tt NOVEMBER, /FIELO COMMENT, AFTER THE APPOINTMENT IN JULY ~1963.

OF NGUYEN VAN HIEU, FORMER SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE NATIONAL FRONT
| FOR THE LIBERATION OF SOUTH VIETNAM /NFLSVN/ AS PERMANENT REPRE-
\ SENTATIVE TO CUBA, HANOI! RADIO ANNOUNCED THAT ON 27 SEPTEMBER A

S “COMMITTEE FOR SOLIDARITY WITH THE PEQPLE OF SOUTH VIETNAM'' HAD
| BEEN FORMED IN CUBA. IT IS ALSO POSSIBLE THAT EITHER THE NFLSVN

_——



ron

cole Rha, ge ae ye

at
Fe

OR THE ORV TRADE UNION DELEGATION PRESENTLY IN MOSCOW FOR THE
TRADE UNION CONGRESS MIGHT LATER VISIT CUBA.

acc -G

fm
