# 104-10239-10024

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10239-10024

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1 March 1005.

#H/C 185-13

LI-8499

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

C/H//Salvador

General: AMMUG/1 Debrlefing Report 4884

Specklic: Agent Flles

No agent (lle is ever closed or retired to Archives.

Il an agent dies, his personal flle may be closed ll he was a

singleton, nd running any isind of notwork, and without close

In that instance, M Sullding headquarters is notilled

that the agent has dled and his personal file ls considered closed,

but the file is retrained at the operations' desk from which the

agent was controlled,

2. Il an agent dies who hay been concerned with or In

chargc of a network, his file is kept open and every effort ia

made by the case oificer to find someone to replace him in the

netword. whether he is replaced or not, the tle remains open

3. Il an ayent is imprisoned, his ille remains open and

efforts are nado by the headquartors' case officer to reactivate the

agent and his speration.

%. Il an agent defects, bls file remains open and efforts ane

made by the her huarters' case olficer, through whatever means,

to reclaim the agent, using intimidation or blackmail but not

phyalcal violence. No Instances are known between August 1963

and April 106s In which physical vialance was used against a

defected agent. Whether the agent responds or not, the case

semains open.

5. At the Salvador Desk, for (lle purposes, agents received

ee to neuter destiny poes ding an e

Recording af such a number on.

The desid

uses § for salvador; two Ayent numbers on documents are 11 (11-5)

for Royue DALTON and 5 (5-S) for Alejandro COVIEZ Montano.

1)!:.

---

## Page 2

Tho fort 1llled out by the ajeit la the valladares Operation and

the sirent li the lasuco "peration ts a ulandard persional bistary

form, asod oaly for agents al forelin istionallly. The addreas

la cuba rocänted on the for ls sol the real aldreas ibero the

azent la lirini but i cover addreso, sinco two agente (La tai

Homoo and Valladares perations) save lhe danie sádrosa bul

woold sot hare been lilay to, elber and ware sut tradaed lo, olhes

bocsuse they betoned to diferent leituoi organizations.

03

Les Stotts

TrW/C/RR/U

WE/C/RR/Us/Murchlson:ema

Distribution:

1-RJ

2 wh/2/Salvador

1- WH/C/ESEC

2-AMMUG/1 Production

I-Mlary/Eernice

1- Chrono

---

