# 104-10177-10161

## Page 1

104-10177-10161÷

12022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CRIG :

@ UNIT

EXT

DATE :

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ЗЕСКЗТ

TOUTING

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF,

INFO:

trans der sint of the saded

digrature

so requires D

ROUTINE

PRiORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

MIRAN

TO

OUT 55783

PROE 2

INFO

CITE DIR

20457

AND PAID A CUBAY LONASHOREMAN 8300 TO DO THE JOB. COLIN PLED TO DOM IL'S.

• REPORT WHICH BELIE POUCHED MENTIONS BROWN AND HECORLACK AS INO UNVESTORS

FROM TOLEDO WHO RESINS LOFGAN'S HOUSE.

HOS TRIED DISCOJRAGE CO-BOX.

REQUEST STATIONS CONSINTS.

END OF MESSAGE

..!cc. 03

=1

3. G. KID, O/4D

BRIRASINO OPRICIS

1389 a

2212:31

REPROOUCTON BY, OTHER. ILAN THE ISSUUNO OFFICE IS PROMINITED.

/BR

---

## Page 2

CONESRERITIAC

INCIDENT REPORT

ADMINISTRATIVE

INTERNAL USE ON!Y

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

DATEL MaY 1973

TIME 1705 hours

NAME Don G. Duncan

GRADE N/A

_ OFFICE N/A

INCIDENTRequest for Information TIME 1705 hours PLACE 4111 Hermosa St.

Toledo,

Oh1o

419-536-7159

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:

The

Agency

Operator transferred a call from Subject who re-

quested to speak with the Chief Agent.

Subiect alleged to be

publisher of the United Labor News,

Ohio, and wanted information on

(circulation 5,000), Toledo.,

the disposition of

one. Olga

Morgan,_

a captive.

cot

the Bay of Pigs invasion who. has

been-in-

carcerated in

one

•that Morgan has

been

or Castro's jails six to

imprisoned for

Initially,

Subject stated

seven years,

later

changing this, upon questioning,

seemed

uncertain

to fifteen

years. Subject then

as

to when thé

invasion

occurred.

Subject is

Avenue, Toledo, Ohio.

Subject appeared

to create an

impression that he

is a real

go-getter who expects a prompt reply to his

query.

Subject

noted that he would

be calling Jack Anderson, syndicated columnist

following his talk with the Agency.

Subject was highly sarcastic initially

but became less strident

as the

conversation developed.

Subject stated that he

expected

his call to be

returned.

he. was

advised,

bowever,. that a

report

of his

call would be

prepared and passed to appropriate Agency

officials.

ACTION TAKEN:

As stated above.

-Booth

REPORTING OFFICER

DISTRIBUTION:

DRIG: DO/SEC (PI05

COPY: CIPHY SO

COPY: C'PSD

FILE: BSB PHYS SU

COP !:

Paul 3, Butler

CHIEF, BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

1792

ADMINISTRATIVE

INTERNAL USE ONLY.

25345375-1985

ONCENTIAL

---

