# 104-10234-10042

## Page 1

104-10234-10042

éa=

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

,torch 2956

"To it los

..agi:019: :0.48

1) "so tililaron, di Mr. Anderson's suegestion, asicod

Anili le corno; On ile lessibili!y of havina AViAS"-i cons out lo

a0e is tul orletina purposos. This uso done vitrin tha past 10 days.

ANn IP-1 3a11 iDAl ine so:anl sas nol good since Mre, Cubala had just

The secently diver threr. AHIP abould be saker thochor le sado any

Call :0 HaTRiA, Deri By MansagO of any sOrt to cubola, Iiractis of

'directly, mishin the luat 10 daja, ME. Anderson vishes to polit ost

unal ArWiIF-1 could, 1l lio vero a Castro agent, bare informod the

suches of our desire to see Lasi again. WHipla poracnal friondahip ard

Loyalty to LASH allould be considered agblast this -to ly thinkdre.

2) AlTRUIT -9, gupposedly boing used by ACSI, raportadly

sort into Cuba In Docentor ISt lo no e direct contart os ARTHUnlO, sta

S& BITOBIN WiTh LASH-I, II TRUIK-9 Mere arrested (and even polesend

or 19 81111 hold) he would have been a lead to TRUNK? ALASH-l has

rapedially sorred us that THUNK-10 Kas MerTous, laaling cosaMiy, and

How!1 l1kely talk 1f arredied. Is ThUK-10 had been arrosod firet,

1I ho walked, 1: tould load to LaSt. Il Brrasted on TRUNK-99s talk,

1t would atill losd to Lisa.

3) AKASH-I and FAUTO ChaTOn (MiRiaLOT Of TranapOrt) eSO

both old Di LesdorA. They had a recent, sorious, argument which teß

reported by 19 jos Libarto MORA BoCarTO. More 8a1d that Be a compeduente,

ALASH-l Mould althor be arrested or bavo to loavo tha country, (This

IF torreL16n to undoubtedly reported to faul Castro.) Il Pauro Chonda

during the 1958 s1ghting) ho seald bare soon to 1t that Raul beoesso

Informad.

is Feure Shonon did not seek revergo on AMlASH-I (POS EAGE

FINLASH-,

-spartaron

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Po.=

-.

ho has exaT-ed MI-DOll 1n iDa paBi lou JearO - eras tO harAg a traSiO thiat

SILOS in 1964) FALL CASINO ANd MIDE hiroll, iny soo the sight bottoce tha

¿No as a say to pay o!! bolh, Pauro Chason and Rolando Cubela soro the tro

2-5

5

DR leaders uno sorusod to lum over the palace to castro on I Januasy 19p9..

In Add1L1On, EBUL aNd ALASH-I havo long boon at odda - Raul threatoning

1i.. provioualy lo. vesring a Corandanio's untiors unllo not partielysting

In MILItATy SCLIUlilo0, LASHie blunt and "rotten" anonor to Paul, at cotera.

Furtherioro, Pause enbarrasaed Fidel Brasily al the Marcos RodrIguas tial -

and Fidol baa boon malting to "gor avan". Thia lo 8 good manent to atrilos

at Fauro, is Pauroratil Del havo barned ANTASH. I could do amara los

botteen thom,

Fouro 20 holp dorond LaSH non, in von of the locan quartol, tilhout

involving hersolt in the charge. "idol could easily read into sury

doLenso by FBUTO OL AMRASH non a further attompt to Interfero viti

blo con "justico".

4) Raul Castro recentls sa1d that a purgo of the silitary mala

Do nesessary, Most boltor say to bagin? It also strikes at the DEa

and aure. Castro and Congary bavo lorg known of Lustro diatesto fes.

than - hora cold iber to thair faces. Theyiro also long knoon of bio

cospilod by Baul

conapiracy, LASH 19 on a 2104/o1 persons to be arrested Innedlataly

11 sorothing bappons to Pides. PineiTo Blso knoms of LASH's disoent ulch

too regina.

5) After having told LASH that sa sould provido (and changing de?

poRtiion - dus parilally lo ITIA death) one ebould rocogniso tho 10ot

that A'TASH isy nos rant to protect us, dus to his disappointsent at ous

rofuaal to oxtant e "noral rocogalliost of bie plan. On the ottor hard,

ho 18 undoubtedly sall avaro that Castross "iaroya does sot astend to

"confessora" - Mitnass Marcos Rodriguos and Bloy CutlerTOs Massyo - tra

roconils Builored a serero pealing in polsca. (Altho it night baro bota

tha otber poldonora sno best tis - though 1l soons uallbaly dur ropart.)

100799119676

---

