# 104-10192-10052

## Page 1

14.00000:

104-10192-10052

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

13

1.3%

624

_ 23.10v 60

• DIRECTOR

MAYAMA

CLASSICIFO MESSAGE

SEARET

WH 9 (MR PHILLIPS WA DIY NOTIFICO 0015, 23 NOV)

001, 0/061, 00/P, COP, NDOP/A, 3/6 2

nót 23 05022 60

UPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 46546

OPIM DIR INTO OPIM MASH CITE HAVA 6989

JMNET

RES A MASH 1701, PARA 2 (IN 44Ö3Y)"

B MASH 1723, PARA 2 (IN 44543)'

NASh TTR No: 45795) 990

•1O JULIO MISTRE, MEMBER MDC DIRECTORATE HERE, CONTACTED STA

22 NÖV AND RELATED FOLLE

HE AND JESUS TERNANDEZ HERNANDEZ, HAD BEEN WORKING. PAST

THREE NIGHTS AT HOME OF SARAN EMILINE HERNANDEZ CATA Y CALTON

OPERATION UNITY". OBJECTIVE OF OPS IS CREATE DRAMATIC SHUB

HERE WHICH WILL DEMONSTRATE THAT MANOLO RAY IS WRONG WHEN KE

TELLING CONTACTS IN UOS. THAT HIS CROUP ONLY ONE CAPABLE OF ACTION

AND WHICH WILL GREATE INCIDENT RERE DEMANDING COMBINED FOLLON

THROUGH BY MER, AUTINTICOS, MOC, MAR AND OTHERS DUE THEY WILL HAVI

NO OTHER CHOICE THAN TIGILIOR SURVIVAL.

SECRET.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSULNE OFFICE IS PROMINEO

Copy No

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFISS MESSAGE

SECRET.

HAVA 6989

IN: LES ÷6

PACE

8. OPS INVOLVES JESUS FERNANDEZ AND SIX EMPLOYEES CUBAN

ELECTRIC COMPANY PROCEEDING TO MAIN, CONTROL CENTER CUBAN ELECT

TRIC COMPANY AT TALLAPIEDRA AND BLOWING IT UP WITH PLASTIC

DEMOLITIONS WHICH THEY HAVE OBTAINED FROM AMPAN-SO RESULTS VILL

BE BLACK OUT OF HAVANA AND SANTA CLARA FOR THREÉ TO, SIX MONTHS.

DEMOLITION VIL BE TIMED FOR 2388 HRS 25, 26 OR 28 NOV. INFIED:

IATELY SOLL DEMOLITION AMPAN-S WILL. MELT WITH SABOTAGI REPS

MRR, MDC, AND AUTENTICOS AND DISTRIBUTE 299 HUDORED BONES VHICH.

ARE ON HAND AND VILL BE USED THROUGHOUT HAVANA VITH PRINGIPAL

TARGETS HAVANA PORT AREA AND PSP OFFICES. TERNANDEZ VILL ATTEMPT

TO REACH ALMENDARES RIVER HERE 20 TT BOÄT WILL BE MALTING AND

06,08

WILL HEAD

• DUE NORTH TOR KEY VEST. (BRAZ AMB HAVA LEITAO DA CUNNA

IS COCPERATING IN OPS AND WILL ESCORT MESTRE TO AIRPORT HERE

AND ACCOMPANY BIM TO MIAHS ON EVE OF TUZ OPS, 85186 BRAZ bE

POUCH AND GOOD OFFICES MESTRE CLAIMS HAS RECI ASSURANCIS TROM

ROMULO BETANCOURT THAT HE BILL SUPPORT ANTI-CASTRO RIVOLUTION

ONCE STARTED.

SHET

PROCTION OR IN ARE ASUN CITE IS PACHUTO

3/N

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ib-

2. MESTHE SEGUESTED VISA LOU:-LICENANTEE CATARIO ALA FORER

AiD SAID CES CITINGENE UPOS ESS ELARNNTRELNG FERNANDEZ FEAT EOAT

HE FLEEINE IN GOULD BE MET. LiSTE TOLD MISTRE THAT IT INFOSSEBLE

CUARANTEE BOAT WOULD BE MET IN EFFORT SCULD BE MADE LODI ITTO

VISA ASSIST. MISTRE ANARE SI EESVANDEZZPAST COOPERATION WITH

CONNIES BUT TRUSTS RER THORDIETLY, SAYING THAT SHE HAS STEN

-об

MOST HELPFUL TO ADC FROM EER CLINT POSITION INCHIN OF FOREIGA

EELATIONS? ARETZ NOTED THAT FLAS APPEARED POORLY COORDINATED

ASSURE FOLLOW UP TO EVENT IF A LOIS TAKE PLACE AND IT MAY

FRECIPITATE COMPLETE DESTRUTTIOS OFFOSITION BY A DESPERATE CASTRO.

MESTRE STATED PLAN HAD NOT SERY COCRDINATED ERD MIAMI AND

AMPALM-S. INTENTIONALLY LEFT OT BUT OPS FULLY COORDINATED HERE

AMONG ERD SABOTAGE CHIEFS ST AAI-I.

S. BRAZ EMS SEC LAGOS JON 2E NOV TOLD ENB POL OFFICER MATNE

SMITH THAT MANOLO RAY GROUP FLANNING BLOW UP MAIN POVER PLANT OF

CUBAN ELECTRIC AT 2380 HRS ZE NOT. SAID HE HAD PERSONACLY TALTED

WITH THE 6 MEN (NOT IDENTITIL) DO WERE TO CARRY OUT T&E

SABOTAGE• ON FIRST VISIT I: SMITH LACOS INDICATED THAT RAY

•GROUP HAD EXPECTED RECEIVE CRISO OS EXPLOSIVES ON NIGHT EL NOV

TOR FEW DAYS.

ALPEADY MINED AND ACTION VOTE TAKE PLACE ON 22 NOV AS SCREDULED.

ALTHOUGH MESTRE DECRIBES THIS 1S AN OP TO "SHOW UP" MANOLO RAY

GROUP INTO AT HAND AND REFS BUGLE INDICATE THIS IS A COCEDINATED

EFFORT OF MANY GROUPS INCLE'S F3P.

REPROOUETION SY. OTHER T-GY INE ISSUING CFISE IS PROMIBITEO

---

## Page 4

14-001100

CLAS

057

"3:AGE

MilIA 6599

SECREL

4O STA AGORE THAT AMFUHU-S MAZ APPOINTED AYPAÑ-S 1S CHISE

ACTION AND SAB FOR HAVANA AREA AND. HAD PROVIDED HIM

•PLASTIC OSTAINED FROM LAS VILLAS AND MULATA OPS, MSG RECD TROM

AMPAN-S AFTERNOON 22 NOV CONFIRMS PLAN SLOU UP POGER PLANT,

TRANSFORMERS, GAS STAS, AND TRUCKS, ETC., ON NICKT 22 OR 2S NOV.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT:* Ray'a requert for one hundred and lifty lie of c-s to Do used la.

• a sabocege elfort in havana.

• MASH reported that the largela fur the offort mere tho electrle

plant and ono of the IV. aratións in Havana.

*NO MASH atated that the operation mão poesposed 18 houra because

of boat repaira.

REPRODUCTION BY. OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFIGE IS PROHIBITEO

---

