# 104-10418-10357

## Page 1

1104-10418-1035

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO

L CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOPFAND BOTT

UNCLASSIFIED 1 LICONFIDENTIAL

X SECRET H

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY*

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

Chief/S

584803

2

3

4

÷6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks: Attached 1s a caronological revier of

the life of Ise Harvey OSWALD pregared by

this office. Additional inforuation 16 being)

added to the biography as tacts become availabl

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER ::

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

'DATE

01/BIO

UNCLASSIFIED:-

FORM

NO.

2-61

237

Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL *

217 Dee 65

SECRET

(40)

#. U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1961 0-587282

---

## Page 2

13-00000

BAZE

1961

1962

June

1963

Spring

1963

20 May

24 Detober 1963

November 1963

VENT

Shartly after OSWALD met Harina OSWALD

In Hisak, he was hospttillied beseusi

ne had "sons trouble with hie ears"

Somatime in dune, 1902z OSHALD Vialter

the fort worth Iibrary where a Hasalar

Languago cleos la condusted as a elvie

project. (SWALD sought the nanes of

persons he might use as referereas in

mylog to tind & 100 as a tranalator.

a cord larch anginger whi teaches the

class Bald that (shALD spoke unstan

Quentis but not prematloally.

OSWALD began tiking typing Lessons at

the Dallas Eventag Sehoel.

FBI In

i get of

LOS OSWALD

eu

Dharme

IbI Intervion of

MarInA OSHALL

4 bee 1753)

Sonatine in the early part of Has, 1963,

OSWALD approashed E. H. WILlAlS,

direstor of the lonlalana and Mlas1saippi

region for the AfICIo office for & job,

Neu. Torit Times

I Lecender 1963

OStALD startod work as an after and

maintanance una in a New Orleans

doffoe unrehouse on 10 fay but wis dismieued

on 19 July for Incompetence.

New York Tunes

I legenber 1953

OSWALD attended the UN Day rally on 25

Oetober 1963 at which U. S. Ambrasador

to the United liations, Adles STEVENSON,

броке.

Lashingtor Post

§. December 1963

At the time of the assassination of

FBI Intervier of

Prasident Kennedy, OSWALD had been

residing at 1026 I. Beckley Street, Dallas,

23 November 1963

Texas, under the name of 0. He LBE,

for a portad al about five necks.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DATE

2963

Hovent

Atrhe tino of his arrest OSWALD Man

carrylar a valler coateining a

seloative sarulce card in the nam

"Alek James HIDELL," which bore

Collala phatagraya

RETENCE

Of OSHALE

23 Hav 1965

---

## Page 4

13-000Q0

OSHALD

Biography

Appendix A

Dopt

---

## Page 5

13-00000

DATE

2915

1947

1948

1953

6 damzary 1953

NATOr to damar

of 195k3

BYEHE

OSHALD attended the Llly B. GlaytOn

ether nored fren llew Orleans, Lonsedana,

to Post Warth.

OSHAID entored the Fertillarth School Syste

on 27 January 1947.

In 19hß, after bar diveros from dude A.

IDAHL, OSHAlD's sother bought a hous

sandal:

Pion 15 December 1953 to 6 January 1951

Ils Brothers, Inc,, an agesey spectalliday

In providing adalt male expuntenship for

fatherlese baya I0 to 16 years old, tried

tO 20:18T OSHAID. The work was taradnated

when OskAID's nother returaed to lew Orleans,

Loadelans sith her collaren.

OSWAID' so last

day of attendance at schoal in Her Xort

Olty was given as 12 January 1954.

ober 1953 (810), OSHABD

entereil Bosuregard Juilor High Sohoal

at k68z Canal Streot, Nes Orleans,

Louisiana, as an eighth grado tranafer

student iron Publis School un in Nei

Tart Gity.

Fred March 1953 to Jamary 195% John

CRITO NaB (sHALL' a probation of 1ose.

OSKAID vas abbeat tren Juntor Higha

Schoal 117, for 47 daye betreen

Cotober 1952 and January 1953. barre

found that Couns natties taloneles

all day long watta lls nother worked

When CEMAID finally appaared before

Judgo Delany of The Bronx Childrarito

Court, he was sent to louth House for

Boys for observation.

DE. Renatox

Len LOn

Do comber 1963

104013 22

Dedenber 79

Лам. Хоті Eme

3 Deceaber 196.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

DAIG

Mares 1953 80

January 1954: 00n6.

Aprll 1953

195il

1 July 1956

1959

EVENT

/FARTOO head paychtatrist at-the

Institution exarined OSWALD and found him,

sdangaroas."

OSwl made three consecutive

"appearances at the Children's Court bafore

Judges Patrick 2. Pogarty, J. Walter Heclancy

and Dudley F, Sicher, all of whom recommended

psychiatric treatment.

In November 1953

OSWALD was roferred to the court's payohlatrie

clinic.

When Garro srote to OSWAlD's notherd

injanary 195k asking ber to bring OSWALDe:"

to the clinic the letter, was returned, withi

sas 'no,tatiors

"Moved"

In AprIl 1953 OSWALD wus comitted ty

Cbildren's Court to louth House for

the front.

Presumably, sometine alter 12 danuary 7951

OSWALD's nother returned te how Orloans,

Lonlalana with her children OSWALD's

Inst day of attandanso at sabool sas glvei

by the Hew York Board of Edudation as

22 January 195k

On 1 JUlY 1956 OSLALD'S nother rented an

ĐĐ8: 82182

apartnent upataire at 4936 Collington Streat,3 July 1963

Fort herth, Texas, which she scipled writt

OSWALD and Robert Lee OSWALD. At that time

OstAla tran a student at the Arltagton Heights

High Schools While resideing at this address

ostaid sent out vory little, proderring to

stay at hine and road. tre "anes i tailor,

who rented the apartuent to OSkALDs mother,

stated that Ostil read very "deep" books,

some of which he revelred through the mail.

Fos seteral nontha before hlo dischargo from

the Marine Corps, OSHALD studied Fussian and

read Russien neuspapers. According to OSWALD's

Marine Corps commanding offider, OSWALD wAs

anart enough to got a G.C.T. (General

Classification Test) of 110, the name erade

---

## Page 7

13-00000

DATE

1959 cond.

1959

1962

3 June 1962

7 June 1962

SAT

regulted for a conmiasion 16 required for

low Lor

rador vorte

knon OstiAld requested an early

discharge fron the Markne Carpe in Septenber

1959 en the eronade of his notherle finanatal

hardehip, other men in the squadron offered

to "chip dạ* and holp dins OSHALD turned dora

those offers, When, a month later, OSHALD

apperred la Moscon, All aisrat radio frefuencies,

call slins, and authenttcation codes were

compromised. OSHALD new the loeation of every

unit on the lest Coant, and the rader capabtlity

of every lostallation.

sorared thousand man hours

shanging everythin and verifying the destruction

of the codes.

045152292

27 lovanber 1963

On 10 and 27 October 1959 OSHAID stayed

at the Torul Botal in Belsinks, Finland

and then noved to the Klaus Aurks Hotal

where he stayed until 15 October apparently

salting ior a visa to be losued to him b

she soviat tonulato in Helsinki, On 15

detaber ho traveled to the lash by train

erossing the border at Valnikkala

On 13 MAY 2962 MOSGOW IBEUEd OSHALD'O MILO

a Dutch transit ties.

Records of the office of the German Federal

Republis In Gologne, Germany show that

Harina Mikolayevna Pasakova OSkALD crossed West

Gernany fron Best Germany to Holland by train

on 3 June 1962.

She had a last Sernin viaa

694/62 losued st the West German Habassy 10

Her final destination was given as

the Ünited States,

On 7 June 1962, Marina OSWALD adulsed the

soviet ambassy in mashington, la la, to res

fister her hesidence fernit do. hto)7790,

Issued 1l January 1952 by MID (Ministry of

Internal Affairs) of the USSR, in the city

o1 Hoscow. She gave as her last place of

residence in the USSR, City of Mnak,

Komuntstichestaya, House #4, Apte 25.

=3-

DIR: 85827

29 November 1963

MIR $6702

1963

Soviet Consular Ille

---

## Page 8

13-00000

DATE

1968

9 July 1962

- JaZy 1962

15 August 1962

BELT

" the suer of 1962'Mrw and "Mrs:" Ceor gu

DeMOHRENSCHILDT of Fort horth, texas were

introduced to OSWALD and his wife throught

friende who vore Interested in helping F19?

The friends were,

George BOUREgi

en 'accountent in Dallas, has chain, d

attörner,

who had previously been a socurity.

officer with the Convair plant, and a petroloun

engineer named Peter OREORY, who reportodiy

idiaoovered. Marina OSWALD.

State A

On 9 Juty 1962 s lotto min sent Bion the Sorlot Gonsalar

Consales Birlaion of the soviet Mabaasy In:

bashington, d. dry to Märina OSKALD royuesting

her residenie peralt far registration. She

Was also asked to complete card 118.

An undated lottor IrOn OSWALD to the sovlet Soriet Consular Ple

Embassy Has vilEten IrOn OSWALDia "nau

address" 2703 Mersedes Street, Fort Forth,

Texase OStLD atatad that his wife's

passport I. AU 3/190, had been forzarded

to the Soviet Embassy on 30 July, OSHALD

asked to be told hou he could subacribe to

"Prava or Istestin" or some othor Fusslan

Language magasino such as "Ogouyok." OSHALO

aleo roquested ary periodicala or bulletins

the sabaaay "put out" for the "benefit of

your oltizens, Livias for i klue, in the USA."

On 15 Auguss 1962 MerLna OSWALD trote to the Sordet Consular I1le

Consular Section of the Sovlet Inbasay 17

ashtogton; De lo & lotter stating that she

malled her "Residenso" and card Na: 118 on

28 July 1963, and had had no further ward

concorning it. She atated that she has

vertled boctuse they had not been seknowledged.

She gave her address as 2703 Mercedes Aver,

Forth Worth, Teras.

---

## Page 9

13-00000

DATE

196₴

6 8ept 1962

33 Des 1962

January 1963,

17 February 1963

8'March 1963

EVENT

REFBRENCE

In the surmor or fall of 1962 Mro. and

Hro, Doorge DelPHRENSCHLLDT BOOK OSHALD

and his vise to meats ftlend, Brerett

CLOVER, In Dellas, Texas, The COVERa

introduced a tea. Hath PAINE to the

OSHALIDE.

On 6 Sentenber 1962 Martea OSWALD'E

Sovlot Passport was roturned to her

sty: the Ghtsf of the Consular Seition

of the soviet labasay in hashtagter,

the letter was addressed to her

at 2703 Hercedes Avenue, Fort Worth,

TExas.

Soviet Consular F12e

On 31 December 1902; Harina OSHALD advised

the soviet Bossalate in Washington, Di G.,

that she and her husband had noved to

Dallas, Taxes.

she gavo her addresa

2s, P. D. Box 2915, Dallas, Texas.

Sordet Consuler Mile

In sarly January 1963, on the vacation

of the freak orthodox christmas, Ar.

and Mrs. George DeMOHRENSCHILDT brought

OSWALD and hia vile to & Russlan Chrlotses

party at the home of Me, Deczan FORD, in

Dallas,

Texas+

The party sas attended by

many people inóluding Amariaans, Baropeans,

and white fussians.

turing the party

OSWALD spent wost.of his time with &

Japanese girl named Yalko (phonetio).

State Aiseram

& December 1963

On 17 February 1963 Marina OSWALD mote to Bordot Donanlar BAle

the sovlet limbassy from Dallas, Pexas,

requesting halp to return to the homeland.

She stated that her husbend would not

a more her a rate no, a tel you

On 8 March 1963 the Consular Division of

the Soviet Embessy in Washington, D. G.,

-5-

---

## Page 10

13-00000

DAST

8 Marab 1963

conte

17 March 1963

17 March 1963

20 March 1963

- 10 Арг11 1963

18 Apr11 1963

EVENT

feTUNPdAd MATLA OSHALO ApplIeAtians

to complete la comention with bes

request for a tlas to retura to the

I8SR, aad other Instruattend She

man aivised shat the prodescing of

her applisation wuld take trom'S to 6

REFERENCE

Sortes Connuler P119

0a 17 Maren 1963 Marina OSHALD completed

= tro paga questiomatre for the Sortet

Enbassy in sebtagten, Do Eu 1a connostion

sch nos raquese sor a tina to rotira u

the questtomatre containes

blographical detalto and a short autos

orlet Consular File

On 17 Harab 1963 Marina OSHALD UrOto to

the sovtet Anbassades in kashlngten, D. Ga,

as instrusted by the Consolar Divlaion

of the inbassy, requesting permission to

retira to the Ussil

On 20 March 1963 an Itallan nade Mannltcher New York Iines

Careine rifte, a 1938 model os 6,5 un caliber, " les 1963

Das recelted by OSHALD at his Dalzas Post

OffIce Bar. The Mille had bign ordered from

the Chicago mallorder house of Blein's

Sperting Coads in she nane of A. I90LL.

On 20 Aprt] 1963 HAfor Gene Edwin A, WALKER

was firer upen shile vorking in hia study

in hía Dallas bona. OSWALD's t1d0n larina

OSHALD, has alained that OSWALD tald ber

that ho had shot at General Walker.

On 18 April 1963 the Sovlet Consulate

adulsed Harins OSWALD by lotter that she

should cone to lashington, le Gey or explain

by letter the reasons shich made her atart

proces ings for return to the USSR for

permanent residence.:

Seveet Conguler File

•-6-

---

## Page 11

13-00000

DAZE

5. Hay 1963

li Juna 1963

1 Jody 1963

8 July 1969

5 Augast 1963

VIAL

REFERENCE

On 5 Mary 2963 MarIna OSHALD Siled a

ahanga of addross notioo to the

Consular Division of the Soviat Enbesay

1a Hashtaston, Do fs The old address

was fluen do Box 2915, Dallas, Texas,

and the new address wis given as 4907

Magasine Street, New Orlonns, Loutslana.

Seuset Consuler File

On is suze 1963 anothur letter was sent from soviet

the Consaler Diviston of the Soviet Embassy

In Hashington, Do Uns toquesting Hartne

OSWALD to explain her reasons for desiring

to rotura to the USSR ty lotter 1f she uas

unable to vialt Hashlagton for that purpose.

ON 1 JULY 1963 L00 HATYEY OSHALD UFOSE tO

the sortet Embasay in Haskington, Do Gos

requesting the sovlot Embassy to "rush"

the soviet entrance viaa for his vife,

MarIna OSWALD, becAuse she was going to

have a baby, la October, and he asked

shat the travel arrangements bo made bafore

then. He added that his vias could be conaidered

separatalys

Soviet Consular Elle

On 8 July 1963 MarIna OSWALD uroto to the

Consular Division of the Soviet Embassy 1n

anshington, He leg

stating, "I urgently

boR you to facilitate the expediting of

this mattor for the reason statad in a

previous letter."

Soviet Conaular File

On 5 August 1963 Marina OSWALD Mad advised by Soviet Consuler Pile_

the Consular Diviaion af the sevlot Embrasy

1n waskington, D. Do, that her request for

entering the Sovlot Unton for perment

ranidants had bean cortaried to loacow for

processings and that she sould ba adrised

at once when the answer was recolvod.

-7=

---

## Page 12

13-00000

DAZE

25 Soptamber

1963

26 September 1963

October 1963

20 Oetober 1963

23 October 1963

I963

Systen for Texas says that Lee Harvey)

ÖSWALD oalled on her in Austing Texas

Several weeks before the assassination';

In an attempt to get his dlecharge fronk

the herinss changed to an honerate one.

Äs OSWALD reportedly left New Orleana onj

23 September and arrived In Nerico City"

iby bus on 26 Septenber,

he could have it

Stopped in Austin en route

25 September which was about eight-weece:

beforenthousasaination::

On 26 Septenber 1963 a report on Preaident

Kemedyla proposed Valt was publiahed in

the Dallas Moraing House

Rey Tonk Herald Wilbune

27 lovember 196)

Sono tilma 11 Ooteber 1963, a gunaulth in

Irving, Texas, mounted a telescople sight

on & gun for & man naned OSWALD. The

punandth, Dial De RYDER, found a recelpt

showing he had mounted and adjustad a

a sight on a gua for a customer named OSkAID.

There was no date for the reselpt, but RIDIN

recalled that the work had been done about a

month ago (la do Ootaber) The Cuntoner

pald lhe50 for artiling and 11:50 for beren

sighting the reapon.

dew Losk times

29 November 1463

On 20 Ostober 1963 Harlos OSWALD gave birth Sovlet Gonsular File

to a baby girl, Audrey Marina OSWALD.

On 23 Outober 1963 0SHALD attended a rally..

hen Lork. 21mes

forned by the l. S. Day Connittoo to counter I bedarber 1963

act the forthconing UN Day program on 2d

Ostober at which Adlal Stevenson wan hookled.

Speaker at the U.S. Dey rally was Major

Genernl Echin A. Walker of Tallas.

• Robert Ao

SURREX, a HALKER alde, ranted the audltorlum

for the rally.

-8-

---

## Page 13

13-00000

DATE

25 October 1963

1 HoveRber 1963

1963

1 Havenber (?)

9 Roverber 1953

WEAT

REFEREICE

On 25 October 1963 OSHALD accompanted

Kohael lo PAllE to a maeting of the

61011 ZAbertLes Unlosi

How York Elmet

11 Decenber 1963

On 1 Horanber 1963 FArInA OSHALD advised

the sovlot Consular Seatten of her new

address, Pa D. Box 6225, Dallas, Pexase

Sorelet Consular 312e

In an andated letter to the Consular Sestion Sarios Connuler Pile

of the Sovlot Embassy in Hashington, Do Gar

malled fron Irving, Texas on 1 Havenber 1963

Herins OSHALD asologised for her delay in

uniting to amplain hor roasons for desiring

to retarn to the vesh... She stated that she had

been unable to do so for "fantly rensons."

Shen then stated that ber ineband now desired

to ratara to the USSR olth here She said

that she was "honesiah" for the USSR, and that

her husband vas frequently unemployed naking

things very diffloult for thell. she stated

that she wished to live in Leningrad where

she had a sister and a brother of her mother's

socond marriage and shere the grew up. she

a180 folt that she sould be able to find

sork nore readily in Leningrad as there were

more pharwacles there.

On 9 Movember 1963 OSHALl wrote to the Consular ge

Division ef the soviet Inbassy in Hashington,

Do Co, stating that he had seon "Comrade KOSTIN»

In harleo.

le explained that he ras not able

to remaln In Meries Indefinitely because he

he could net request a neu visa without using

his "real same."

He added, "had he been able

to reach the Soviet Embassy In Havana ea plated,

the embassy thare would have had time to complete

"our buatness.". OSWALD stated that he had been

Interlewed by the FBI on 1 Novenber in Dallas,

Texas, and warned not to engage in any F.i.G.C.

activitias.

He added that the FBI agent had

statod that harine ostill could remain in the

Unitod States under FEI "protection," and that

polar fue

---

## Page 14

13-00000

DAZE

9 Movember 1963.

Donito

RODENS

1 December 1963

sho could "defeat" fren the Soviet Union.

OSWALD olalmed that his wife had atrongly

"protested" these tastiod. In ologing

OSWALD atated that her tre had elven birth

to a daughter, audrey haruns Oskaal, on

20 Datober 19031

On 1 Desember 1963 8or2et Ambasaados:

Anatolly F, Dobryalt turned over to

Seasotary of Stato Dean HUSK, a Soviet

Consular f1le On OSWALDA

Waghineton. Peat.

_ December 196)

-10-

---

