t

/404-40218-10036)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992) -

! ‘i a

hats font
fe ee

fa ia

I : Ai a

{ ve ee

a “|. PROJECT OUTLINE

a

1

i ‘

i CRYPTONYM : FIELD CASE OFFICE
i

j STATION _ Mexico City CHIEF OF STAT IO;

4

AF

SIDE of ATT, fb Pra raep DES SB :

$0 384-26) :

17. #8 Hina p~- 26353 |



1. Identification ats + ‘ { |

“ =“ a
I oo
u. sel ? :

"PROJECT OUTLINE

: denn i u
Mexico City, Mexico. Support for singleton contract agent
operating into right-wing political milieu in Mexico for :
intelligence purposes with some covert action by-product.

2. Objectives

a. Objective The objective of this project is to provide
support for a U.S. contract agent who has access to a wide variety
of right-wing political elements and organizations in Mexico.

b. Conduct of Project The contract agent, LIHUFF/1, was born
in Mexico and has had a long history of business experience in
Latin America, as well as, over the past fifteen years,, in Mexico.
At the present time, he is|

in both American and Mexican business circles. Generally, it is
from the Mexican business community that the financing and support
for right-wing political movements, organizations, and institutions

‘eminate. Given the general trend of recent Mexicam regimes, as

* tions used. by them as front instrumentalities for expounding

well as the present one, toward more governmental regulation and
manipulation of the economic life of the country, the Mexican
businessmen continue to support right-wing political movements or
ostensibly nonqrofit civic, research, and other types of organiza- ,

their philosophy and taking-action in the politico-economic fields. ;
LIHUFF/1 has natural access through his present position and past i
extensive experience in the business community here, Over the
years, as a matter of fact, hs numerous associations with these
elements have earned him their trust and respect. In addition fg: 1
the past four years he has funded ‘LIBUFF.
organization, consisting primarily

(@_ magazine on

politico-economic affairs), and| |
a student organization). Also, he.
has handled LICHANT/1 who has a history of, and numerous associa-
tions in, the Mexican right-wing political arena, These and many
other contacts of this type will provide the basis for his reports -|
on this particular segment of the political spectrum in Mexico.

c. Targets Right-wing political elements and organizations
in Mexico. ‘This would include not only

and but | and numerous f°

others of political significance on the Mexican scene. In connection
with LICHANT/1's present

1
which gives him a great deal of mobility i :

wlan iSite



H
|
|
|
;
4

education system which, according to the last word received
*\ from Headquarters, is somewhaz of a priority requirement.

and f of the Related Mission Directive for Station Mexico

> ~

i

obec] :
eo Ae : ; ;

position, it should be possible to obtain. information on
the Ministry of Education and other aspects of the Mexican

d, RMD, This project is responsive to Priority A3d

City (approved October 1963). This priority reads in par
btain Information on the stability of the Government ..
and through
of other powerful political groups such as

~ On either side though of this growing central political

the . and through continued development and
infl eve ______Icontaces.# As an
ancillary measure, the project could contribute to MHSPAWN
objectives of the RMD under certain circumstances where use
of right-wing platforms ana urganizations is merited.

3. Background,

a. Developments Leading '.p to Project.

(1) Mexico, politically, is a country in which, _
Increasingly, a centrist political concensus is developing
based on the impact of education and economic development.

spectrum are extreme ‘left and extreme right wings which are
quite active and quite vocal and which have an influence in
the form of individuals, organizations, and movements greatly
out of proportion to their numbers, Political disturbances
and efforts to induce jack of stability eminate in the main
from these two extreme wings. As the centrist force grows
slowly, it is possible and probable. that these two wings wil
intensify their efforts and become more and more radical.

The Station has intelligence coverage of the extreme left-
wing, but has neglected the equally. important extreme 'right-
wing when, in the final analysis, any threat to Mexican
political stability by fomenting unrest and incidents does,
and will continue to, eminate from the right-wing as well as
the left-wing. Assumin g that, as indicated in the present
RMD, the long range national policy objectives of the U.S.
toward Mexico are to encourage a stable democratic government
and political environment, then coverage of the right-wing tbe
is required if for no other reason than meeting normal Station i?
responsibilities for political reporting. HBFINCH contacts iz
in.this area have been, and probably will continue to be, acs
virtually nil. ‘In fact,.at present in this area HBF INCH
contacts are non-existent,

(2) LIHUFF/1 was first picked up as a contact by
Station Mexico City in 1950 after having been a contract
agent for Station Panama City for some three years (while
engaged in business in Panama}, He has been in a continuing



i
1

Se ecichia of one degree or another with this. ‘station
ever since then. This relationship developed from "contact"

. into formal contract status in November 1962. LIHUFF/1 has

jhandled Station con¢tacts and activitics with LIHUFF /2

as well as LICHANT/] from 1962 to date. In
‘addition; he has done a good deal of reporting on right-wing
activities from other sources and other contacts of his.
Subsidy, of the LIHUFF activity for MHSPAWN purposes ~ :

will be terminated effective

30 né 1965. Use of LICHANT/1! will be continued in an
intelligence reporting capacity and,in a limited way, for
covert action efforts.

b. Prior Negotiations, There have been no prior
negotiations with the Mexican Government, intelligence or

security services, or ODYOKE elements on this project.
LIHUFF/1 has been used in the past, prior to his contract
with KUBARK, as a source by ODIBEX and ODMARK.

c. -Relationship to Other Projects. This project

has no rela fonship to any other Station project.

d. Utilization of Same Operational Assets,
_ CIHUFF/1 has not beenutilized:on any other project, past. or
present, except to the extent|he was involved with the LIHUFF
activity indicated-in subparagraph 3a(2) above.

4, Operational Assets. ~

a. Personnel. .

(1) LIHUFF/1 (OA granted on 10 October 1962
with no number forwarded to field) -- Subject was born in
Mexico, is fluent in Spanish, and is about 49 years old.
Since World War [1, he has been in private business in Latin
America, first in Panama and then in Mexico from 1950 on.
puellng World War II, he was in Army intelligence in China and,
therefore, had an understanding of covert operations prior to
his KUBARK experience. While in Panama, he was employed by
the Station there for several years ™ to organize a net
dfrected against a target of high priority Interest". This
association was terminated by reason of his move to Mexico
for business reasons. Although he was in contact with this
Station virtually from his time of arrival in Mexico, he was
not picked up as until November 1962. His
cover for his past and proposed activities has been natural:
that of a businessman with a conservative political outlook
and interested in the economic and political posture of the

PORTE: STOR

meta Ente



{
|
i
(
i

L
i
i
H
4
i.
}
i
i
'

eupeceat
: J

Mexican Government. Contact with him is covered by a soctal
relationship between his case officer and.himself; this is
easily maintained. given the large American community in Mexico
City. He hes had no formal intelligence training other than
that he received from the Army during World War 11 and on the
job with KUBARK. Control of Subject is no problem inasmuch
as he is an American citizen and has had considerable
experience with KUBARK by now, His motivation is that of an
attraction to this type of work, being a U.S. citizen ina
foreign area, natural concern forhis business interests, and,
probably, the compensatory return from KUBARK. He is witting
of his KUBARK association and, aside from his World War If
intelligence experience with ODIBEX, in 1961 he had an .
intelligence relationship with. ODIBEX which has long since
been terminated.

(2) LICHANT/1, (OA granted on 22 April 1963,
but no number forwarded to field) -- Subject is a ver
conservative Mexican educator and intellectual about e) years
of age. He has alternated between working in various
capacities for the
universities. At the present time, he
position which gives him unique access im tne government to
the general fields of education and politics as well as
considerable contact with other influential people in right~
wing circles.. He was recruited by LIHUFF/] in August 1962
on the pretext: of doing research work and collecting infor-
mation for LIHUFF/1's general use for business purposes.
Subject has natural cover for obtaining: information on right=
wing activities from others due to his long association with
right-wing activities as a student, educator, and government
servant. Contact between Subject and LIHUFF/1 is maintained
under the guise of | | Subject has
had no intelligence training from KUBARK other than that
imparted by LIHUFF/1 in discussing his reports. There has
been no problems in control since essentially. Subject under-
stands that this is a business relationship with certain
requirements involved for it to be sustained. Subject's
motivation is that of an intellectual ly-convinced conservative
who has common objectives and outlook with LIHUFF/1 on
political and economic matters plus the financial aspect of
the LIHUFF/1 relationship. Subject is not witting of KUBARK
or ODYOKE interest in his activities and reporting. He has no
known contacts with other intelligence or security services,
past or present. .

b. Mechanisms, There will be no mechanisms involved

in this project Pande dn LIHUFF/1 will continue to ha' ESS
t and, in turn, to aa and “for

O
intelligence purposes.



economic .climate in Mexico for the

5. url u

in the unlikely. event of compromise, LIHUFF/1 could
continue to claim that he was not doling anything that hundreds
of other businessmen, U.S. and Mexican, aren't doing as ~ .
commonly-accepted ‘practice: try ing to Influence the. politico-
r own benefit. Whatever
the extent of the compromise, there would be'no repercussion
Insofar as other operations or activities per se were
concerned except that there might be some tightening of the
general operational climate for a while. If, somehow,
JHUFF/I's true role were disclosed, he could probably be
backstopped with a minimum of publicity through high-level
Station contacts with the Government (explaining the Station
Interest In right-wing circles as attempting to follow what -
they were up to In case they became a threat to the stability
of the present government).

6. Coordination.

No coordination Is desirable or required with other
ODYOKE or PBPRIME elements, with the Mexican government, or
with other governments and ingest gence services.. It.Is
assumed that normal coordination with various elements within --
KUBARK. Headquarters will take place,

7. Sostss. i

General. It Is requested that this project be
ve

a.
authorized: in the amount of $9,000 per annum effect
Veduly 1965. 2... ajaseoteeenasguae

b. ed f uu
(1) LIHUFF/1 salary $3,600.00
(2) Operational Expenses 3,000.00
(3) Entertalnment and Travel 2,400.00
Total per annum $9,000.00

_No non-KUBARK funds will be Involved In this activity.



"employment continued in his present capacity. . This,

2)

: : i
Forelqn Currency. It Is entls pares thet sny

c.
forseeable foreign currency requirements will be within the
Station's capacity to handle,

d, Sonm/tmentsa, No commitments have. been made to
LIHUFF/1 other than a salary of $300.00 per month with a
thirty day's notice on termination. :

Panties Funding and _Agcountabllity, Since this project
will only Involve salary for the most part, no unusual

requirements are deemed necessary for accountability. In
the event that funds are passed for any type of special

activity cad than salary, normal standards of accountability
wi e used.

i
8. Annexes, | 15
‘a. Administrative Plan or Fiscal Annex, Not applicable.
b. Communications, Not applicable.
c. Technical Support.! Not applicable.
d. Loatstics, Not applicable.
e. Ligen = applicable.

9. Emeraency Conditions.

If an offictal anti-USA atmosphere of sufficient
Intensity prevailed In Mexico, LIHUFF/1] very probably would
not be able to maintain himself here, particularly if his

however, Is not seen as anything except a very remote contin=
gency due to the Government of Mexico's dependence on the U.S.
tourist trade. In a general war, It Is probable that LIHUFF/1
would be able to continue in place without too much difficulty |
and would be will ing to continue operating on current objectives .
or to undertake entirely new operations against new targets. 3
eviccs and communications should represent few problems in
Mexico,

i
13
Hi,

