# 104-10071-10387

## Page 1

104-10071-10387

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN E. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

2 MAY 1968

Diractor

Foderal Buresu of Inventigation

• Do. Martin Ixther KIG, J20

1.

Reference is made to this Ageney"s out message

nunber 91270 dated 25 April 1968 concerning the BB8ass1-

nation of DI. Martin Luther KING, JI.

2.

On 16 April Boderick Claflin BROTN, & Panamanian

national born 1 July 1917 in British Honduras, voluntarily

appeared at the Department of National Investigations (DENI)

of the Republic of Pansea and signed & deposition, the

highlights of rhich are as follows:

(1) On 26 Cetober 1962 he serVed as CoOk/seaban

aboard the Texaco S.S. Southhaupton which docked at Mobile,

Alabana.

(2) While on a shore viait to the Mobile airport

on the morning of 26 October 1962 in the compeny of two

fellow Panamanian seasen, he vas approached by Marvin P.

LITTRELI, OWner Of LITIRELI, Motor Co., 921-25 South Clinton

Street, Athens, Alabana, who after ascertaining BROHN was

& Paramantan seaman, asked 1f he knew'of Di. Martin Luther

KING, JI.

(3) LIITRELL Inquired whether BROWN was interested

In employnent, the details of which were unspecified. He

went on to describe DI. KING as "Our greatest problem who

1s causing us much trouble." He gave BROWN a business card

to use in the event he was interested in pursuing the euploy-

ment offer.

(4) On 28 January 1963 BROWN WrOte LITIRRII, fION

New fork City, stating he was interested 1n a Job and

SECRET

09858

lite Rous

i de king

assass

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-2-

requested $75 for travel fron New York City to Mobile.

On 2 February 1963 BROMY recelyed a reply frou LITTRt,

restating that he had a job vaiting for BROTh 10 Alabara,

but questioning why $75 was needed since the fare was lets

that $10 by bus.

•(5) After discussions mith a relative and friende

In Hew York City, BROWN suspected that the LIlTillot job

offer was related mith assassination planE for di and.

Thersfore he did not respond to the LITIRIl. letter sad

dissisted the Incident until the doth of DI. KING. IT

April 1968.

BROIN returned to Panana Ju. 1965.

3.

Enclosed for your Information 1s & copy of the

LITIRELL, letter and the Spanish language deposition rade

by BROIN, as well as an English translation of the deposition

as described in paragraph 2 of the referenced out sossage.

FOR TER DEPUTY DIRECIOR FOR PLANS:

Signed: Jarces 2 Errit:

JAMES ANGESTON

CSCI-316/01702-68

•3 HICLOBUTOS

кн/2/Рaдamа/Q: HodgeS cib

2 Hay 1968

Distribution:

Orig &

1 - Addressee, #/atts

- CI/R&A (Dummy)

- CI/LIA (Dummy)

2

-

CT/OPs/DO, watts

- WH/ 2/ Panama

Based on:

PANAMA CITY 6180 (IN 97566)

SECRET

---

