[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

 104-10226-10038

_DISPATCH E

tor, eis

Sher of base, HAVE

Chie? of Btation, Garacsa

ia

1, . An ineressing purber of Cubes exiles are nov arr Ing 1p Vooessala
8 safecentucts are alotly lasoed by the Cuban Goverusnct for asyloos in
the varies foreign exdeavine in Rebans who tuk refige G@urteg Aoril 198.
Avong tere sxlleo are soma. tho tock.an activa part in different under-
ground e2d goorrtlla groups oppoatiig tha Castro ecverment, Soo of than
aro tow teying to get visas co teat tsy can report’ shout their clanestios
activities tw their superiors in thy Cuban groupa fo Mingt. CIARK-1 bas
provided Ge etation with tha imma of the folimwing paras ty tale cato-
sory wtos bo"tas sat" in thy course of Ris echivitian Jn iryiog “td. help
Te-locste the Cube éxiles oov'sitiving ia 'tae epumiry:.

7 e+ -Ragar antodto“@gignNL7 catéea - tora 19 Foveator 1907.
Rewer WER 120 Anfantia to soporsS Svelto DUYIE. (B00 ‘aleo ”
avce-8521) : a : ee

De” Cocae SSCIRGARAY Gurveine- born & April 194. - ember
VQ who inteois to’ report’ to Bvalic NYE together wih ’QHRALS, ---

: x c. Eronstizo Cootlio *ARESU Sorta - barn ‘UL. Roveabsr 1924,:"
Pree ae Yaxber WOH ‘tho was “responsable uilitar® for thn MAR in ths
ites _ Wroyiese.of Metanses tho imtends w resort to Dr. Oscar GALAS.

| 42) Late Barushe $B04A Doatngura - tom 22 october 1936“ :
Sambar of the Directorio Zstidianttl. : ee
gy Guillen ura}io “2A Daringase - born R9 Fobruszy. _

1ghd, “seater of ‘the Misetorie RstaMantil, - ;

. f. Bnsaty MOARIEA Darlagat - born 25 March 19M. Masher
of te Osidal femluetoparts who used thy nano ud Sdutista »
Sanches Girtog Untargrund activities,

2 Biace the local consulate mp longer norvally ‘tesues tourkot vised
to aay Giex exiles’ but tasicte'on thatr applying for imsigretion visas, i
watch require 8”. 6 woke mitiing tim eta nlnizun, th: Station tould -
Srpreciate eny actica Rextsnerters may wea to take through Listoon to
authorize the local conmiate to issue tourist vives to the above cated.

‘

persona.

UN oe

