fo4-10112-10644) ‘ {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
eee .

Meno

: (4{30(74

: 4, Ye may or may not weet interest that on 29 April 1963, the
Cffice of Security provided(Bill BEANE) DOD, a copy of a 1953 summary
of the case of Georgs DeMOHRENS| 8775). Gale ALLEN, then a
DOD case officer had requested an expedite check of De MOHRENSCHILDT,
“exact re: unknown. * Apparently, ALLEN's fnitial request was initi-
ated through| PANOR) DOD, on 26 April 1963, In late 1963 and early
1964, DéMOHRENSCHILDT eived extensive attention in the investigation
of the assaseination of President Joha Fr. KENNEDY. DeMOHRENSCHILDT
wae a close associate of Lee Harvey OSWALD in Dallas, Texas. C8 inios~
mation is minimnl concerning this association, but DeMOHRENSCHILDT is
mentioned extensively in the Warren Commission Hearings and his testi-
mony, and the testimony of his wife, encompasses one of the longer teati-
monies in the Hearings. The testimonies reveal that the DeMOHRENSCHILDTs -
did not associate with Lee Harvey OSWALD after 19 April 1963 when they
left Dallas for a trip to New York, Philadelphia, and Washington, D.C.,
returning to Dallas for two days near the end of May 1963 and then travel-
ling to Haiti where they were located at the time of President KENNEDY's
assaseination in November 1963, There is no information in the testi-
monies as to what the DeMOHRENSCHILDTs were doing, or with whom
they had contact, during the period 19 April to late May 1963. It is inter-
esting that ALLEN's interest in DeMOHRENSCHILDT coincided with the

2

wv SECRET


erry

earlier portion of this trip and the information would suggest that pos-
sidly ALLEN and DeMOHRENSCHILDT were possibly in the same
environment in Washington, D.C. circa 26 April 1963. For your infor-
mation DeMCHRENSCHILDT was also once an associate of Jacqueline
KENNEDY and her mother, long before the assassination,

5. The above is for information

Jerry G. Brown
Security Analysis Group

IGBihjd

