‘Wfoa-10337-10346) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

’

SECRET

27 duly 1995
Memo for the Record

Subject: 17 July, 1995 Meeting with ARRB staff re FBI
documents on Gibson

Attendees: Jeremy Gunn
Phil Golrick
Joan Zimmerman
Bill McNair
Ellie Neiman
Barry Harrelson

Purpose: To provide the ARRB with justification for
continued postponement of information on Gibson's
relationship with the CIA.

Bill McNair briefed the ARRB staff members on the current
status of Richard Gibson including the Agency's meeting with
Gibson earlier this year. They were told that. despite the
inadvertent release of his name and being contacted by
journalist, Gibson was still denying his agency relationship
and has requested that no more information be released.

Gunn pointed out that Gibson was an important JFK figure and
that the ARRB would lean toward disclosure. We responded
that the Agency had no problem with the release of Gibson
information that did not indicate a relationship with the
Agency. Since the agency did not target him for recruitment
until 1964 and he not come to work for the Agency until
1965, most of the information of his activities during 61-63
is releasable. We showed them re-reviewed copies of the
documents that release much more information than had been
released in the copies they received from the FBI.

‘Bill talked at length about the need to protect sources and
the potential impact on Agency operations as well as: the
risk ‘to the individual. We also stressed the point that an
inadvertent release, a mistake by reviewers or comments by
former employees did not constitute official acknowledgment
or mean that there was no longer a need to protect an
individual.

We agreed to provide by the end of the day re-reviewed.
copies of the 7 documents in question. The highlighting
would reflect the agency's policy of continuing to protect
Gibson's relationship with the CIA.

Note: per phone call with Gunn (20 July), the Board did not
address the Gibson documents in the 18 July meeting.

SECRET to
