# 104-10074-10007

## Page 1

104-10074-100074

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT ÖF 1992

KLI

3, 11

-2°

sauce: also

8.: 9093

Mad lead die for Tawa ina Le

tor Toorer

Dear it. Booteri

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1a termies granti

MOn

u0L0s. on 7 Kanak

Aaron So see poster

80B

tini

wonting fox the nex

(tas

#1t)

2947)₽

очетех, #

copy sec

overed at tat

do top.

did

ENGLA

ded di

MICROFI&

TEDEX

home

NAY 6 - 1995

to Director

DATE 8 DEC 1952

, ang. if?

RI COTT

24

REF FORM FILED

IN:

701-5141

507-33738

SILA

NOT 40011

10446

Pittman

---

## Page 2

00000-tL

ad

wrededid

16000 10.06.10

sgtrtoedotrard.d

Вснiм?..

trs:

11611

Potr"

Inihroresl Oraaid

estana. k."

M4fZ

? 1:

Bincerat

tiston of tho

SULI

-auilr.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

COUNTRY

Ilaly/Yugoslavio/Frahco/3t.31.01n/USA

SUBTECT

i Willian Zebaton rossel -

ORIGIN

(London) 15-l

DATS OF INFO & Aa stated:

DATE

8 Hay 15a 7947

ron. 1U.3.4%4

our ropronentative In(Rono)reported that posteR

had

a few days.

heard rian belgrade that gaoording to 100n)

preas roporta at 25.8.17., POSTER had left Jugoslavia

84.8.47.

No, detalls vere glven regarding lua destination,

but the proas report mentioned that ho had been accompanied

by the orate lander as the babe one scenade.

stated that after the

- toport antod 1.4.47 from Part In London, Coveral important

Britlah. Communlat Farty Congrass

*

and

the same time devoral Communist dolegates

who had ben present at the H.J.Da. Congross in Praguo, hud

gato, aà well as dalogatos from creede,

VietNam.

our souroe,

however, don not know nemos of any

axcopt those nontioned.

"Several neotings were held at the Headquertera of the central

come on in thing one torang or me elber

CHIN, ALHRACHONT MONMO USS EAT A RAJO

Rober tyREur, and

SO GOOSIO ALLIAIS OUCHAILOV Comintera Delegat

although our sourge coes not now

mok of what happoned at

obsorvod, he atates that the meeting was conceried with untting

of corld venooratio foroos against International reaction. In

this connuotion, the French Communist loaders are said to have

very wuch rogrotted the diffloulty of bringing about the union

batwoon the American Federation of Labour, and the Congross of

Industrial Organisations 1n the ü.s.d.

ENCh.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

"Jacques.

DUOLos made a spoclal roport eup:asizing

thut this voa

one of the nost important tasks to la paroled out by tho Concunists

within the C.I.0.

"Bosidós tho abovo, the question of Groion and Turkoy was ducussoc,

notabilo the question or boyootilag of ner materiala sunt to those

"Finally,

the difforont speakars apoke or the necossity of dorandl:

the U.S.iloR. by all possibla means.

"Andro MiRTY 18 sald to have apocially doult with he question of

Labour In the colonies,

anphaal.ing the necossity if bringing about

vity of action among the blaoki, throughout the

o. Bos Ir Pranoh, British and Bisten potsessiona, loan Continent,

no abovo,

according to our arco,

chlofa in paris.

"no understand that all other detaila about FOSIER's arilvul and

doparture fron this counory have alroady buen passed to you by l

124

---

