ENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
=

“'o4-10229-0443| [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDI

' Cp evil
DI S P AT C H SECRET = Fea

|
|

ero,

Chief of Station, JMWAVE
: ‘wanct TYPIC7Opere tlona:
AHBUU Medical Program
EG RC QUIN RETR
References: ‘
A. UFGA-25901, Para 1.(14 Sept 1966) F. UFGS-S352 (29 October 1964)
B. UFGA+25261, Para 11 (3 June 1966) G. UFGA-18091 (13 October 1964) |.
C. UFGA~23072 (14 Sept 1965) H. UFGS=-5186 (21 September 1964)
D, UFGA-21058 (27 April 1965) I, UFGA-17174 (17 August 1964)

B. UFGA-19189 (28 Decembor 1964)

oy

Action Required: As stated in paragraph 3,

I. As reported in Reference A, paragraph 1, the medical/vocational}
rehabilitation program has reduced the aumbor of individuals receiving
monthly medical dependency paynents to six "hard cure” cases of

rious medical caso who resides docaliy, (oe
1g funded by Garcia Lines. The background or the
Ous correspondence with Headquarters regarding resolutio:
of the problem. is contined. in References B through 1. Being forwarded
Under Bopargte Coyer aro Attachments A, B and ¥,- the case histories for
6 @RnanveZ yPeeez\oand RTINEZ)6 Of ‘special inter, Reference C
which forwarded case bY stories’ oh les

mt (0 \for analysis
and comment by the Medical. Start

)MedickI reports originated subsequent] ’

to the submission of the Reference C report and are being forwarded
Under Separate Cover as Attachnenta C, D and EB,

2. The current status of each of the remaining casos is summarizo
as follow:

a. (cenanes Hernandex, Raut) (201-€90405)))
ILEPSY :
Receiving outpatient treatment from Dade County Department

of Public Health vitates that Clinic, 6a Clinic report

dated 31 May 1966 states that (ERNANDEZ tontinues to have
seizures which the Clinic is attempting 40 control by
medication. (Attachment 4.) (U/S/C) |

Attachments U/8/¢ continued. .........
A through Fas described
{
Distribution iuabdsbiaesttienaeel euecegera
S-W7C w/I cy each
Att. U/8/C 28 Sept 65 | OCT 6 1566
(plus 1 cy Dispatch | PATON BRB AnD ON
for each 201 file | : UFGA-26075
i w/pertinent Att.0/S/0) ARENSON
i ere ea| Guassincaticns 19-124-25/5-3
i | Sani ET 2 h 201 £12
Vietelet SECK 4 Plus. eac file


or *
eee Vuaeertic SON T x
TINUATION OF. | : TERS
CO bispaTcH { SKRCRET | UFGA=26075

». (psn Cruz, Rigobor to)(2014291762))
ANCERK/Bladder Komoved
Receiving outpatient treatment; most recently for a
Kidney infection, AMJUD-3 statou that it 4s incredtble
that Subject continues to live, The caso is evetartzcd

in a report propared by Dr, Vargaw in May 1966,

‘a, _(Attachmont 1) (U/8/C)
e (201284434)
WENTAL as )

Receiving outpatient caro at Jackson Memorial Hospital
Department of Psychiatry, A 5 May 1966 report from
the Hospital recommends that Subject continuo under
psychiatric outpationt caro for at least another

year. (Attachment C} (U/S/C)

201¢290101))

“AL
Continuing to receive treataent from Dr. Mora who
wrote on 11 August 1966 that Subject is very 111 and
in need of further psychiatric treatment.
(Attachment. D) (U/S/C)

. (Pozo Greer, Rolando) (201 202760) \
TAL

Continuing to receive treatment from Dr. Kura who
wrote on 11 August 1966 that Subject has shown signs
of real improvement which may rosult in his becoming
self-supporting. (Attachment &) (U/S/C)

fi (Garcta Lines, 201 not

wailable)
BLIND (Advanced glaucoma)
Receiving outpatient care at Jackson Memorial Hospital.

@ (Attachment F) (U/8/C)

3 It is requested that tho Ieadquarters roviewingbaction 4

described in Reference C for handling the cases of|_ es
and(P0z0\be expanded to includo all the remaining cases and~that
JMWAVE informed of the conclusions reached concerning. the

ultimate disposition of these cases,

4, FYI, An amount of $250,000 was originally authorized
for the medtal phase of the AMBUD Program, Expenditures under
this progran bave reached = level of approximately $245,000 with
bills outstanding at the present time of $3,250, It is evident
that the cases remaining which require medical treatment as
outlined above will necesstate the expenditure of sums in excesa

of this amount.

Philip G, ELMARD

CoaaTCATON

Skcrer [Or conmnee {2

