“"404-10126-10318] [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 i}

rae . i . €
; ; RETURN TO CIA oot heed pg
7 Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce ECA

[ie 6 7 yo297 }

SUMMARY OF MR. HART'S PRESENTATION

I. Defection as a Psychological Phenomenon

Misinterpretation of Nosenko's reactions will
be covered within the context of failure to under-
stand the stresses to which he was subjected as a
defector.

II. 1962 Contacts

Factors leading to an inaccurate record during
the 1962 meetings will be covered.

IIi. The Role of Mr. X
The influence of another defector -- to be
referred to only as Mr. X -- will be indicated as
resulting in misinterpretation of many of Nosenko's
statements.

IV. Confinement of Nosenko

Details of the confinement will be outlined as
they relate to possible misinterpretation ‘Of his
statements under questioning during the period up to
his being reassigned to the custody of the CIA Office
of Security.

The entire presentation will be about 30 pages in
length when reduced to final written form. Mr. Hart's
presentation will not specifically address the question
of Nosenko's statements regarding Lee Harvey Oswald.
Mr. Hart, in studying the Nosenko case, deliberately
disregarded the Oswald aspect of the case inasmuch

as it had by and large been handled by the FBI.

Mr. Hart will argue that, inasmuch as Nosenko is a
bona fide defector, his statements regarding Lee Harvey
Oswald should be accepted as having been given in

good faith and to the best of his knowledge.

2PO¢S_F


NAME

DATE OF BIRTH
CITIZENSHIP 3
CIA CAREER

OTHER CIVILIAN
GOVT SERVICE

EXPERTISE ON

SOVIET. DEFECTORS:

RETIREMENT

John Limond Hart
3 October 1920
U.S.A.

Approximately 24 years with CIA,
during Uae sgrved_as Chief’ of

Sta J
“and Wig igus held
séhior posts in leadquarters.

Special Assistant to Secretary of
the Treasury for National Security,
1972 to 1973.

Has written two extensive st
of Soviet defectors, includin
on Nosenko. Has also had cen
experience with Sovict intelli
and counterintelligence acti
while serving in various capa
in the United States and abr

Retired from U.S. Government
after 31 years of combined mi
and civilian service.

