# 104-10414-10408

## Page 1

nani

104-10414-1040

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

TO

: Chief, WH Division

INFO

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief of Station, Mexico City

- LIEMPTY Project Renewal

ACTION REQUIRED

- Renewal of Project

REFERENCE(S)

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/S

DISPATCA SYMBOL AND NO.

HMMA -15979

Лудо -1842

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

50-6-74/1

DATE

18 November 1960

RE: "43-3"' - (CHECK "X'' ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALIFIED HQ. DES ONLY

Attached are the requisite number of copies of the Request for Renewal

of Project LIEMPTY.

16 November 1960

Attachment:

As stated above.

(Even pages forwarded herewith)

(Odd pages under separate cover)

Distribution:

3 - WHD

(with five copies of attachment)

2 - Files (with one copy of attachment)

/ 5

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

The following action

authorized:

Signed:-

R.D. 4630 - Une WAH/L/K

Note:

If destruction,

cite

reasons and coordinato

il appropriate.

FORM

10.57 53

140.

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

REPLACES FORMS

9284 AND a

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

CS COPY

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/100K

50-6-744

PAGE NO.

CONTINUED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET /

GONZALEZ was finally identified and his

Mexico City home ad business addresses were

ascertained.

See HNMA-15626, 9 September 1960,

for further

details on this case.

bo

The preliminary investigative work on

KUSODA case of priority interest was conducted

by SCaNTLING.

During this investigation it

was necessary for SCANTLING to travel to

Aguascalientes, Guanajuato and Minatitlan to

obtain the information required by Headquarters.

for the results of the'investigation.

In addition to his contributions to the above objec

tives, SCANTLING is used for miscellaneous support

reguirements of the station. For example, SCANTLING

handled several of Raymond H. GERENDE's (ps) operations

September 1960.

the LIJERSEY surveillance

Simon D. CLACKETT in August 1960a.

It is hoped that

SCANTLING can be relieved of this assignment as soon

as the LITEMPO project is approved.

SCANTLING has also

been used to spot and rent safe houses for various

Station operations, a valuable operational support

service.

As stated in the preceeding Request for Project

Renewal,

al though SCANTLING'S LIEUPTY Project objectives

can never be completely fulfilled, it is the Station's

opinion that SCANTLING has made important and valuable

contributions to LIEMPTY Project objectives specifically

and

to other Station activities in general.

SCAN TLING'S

production; measured against monetary expenditures,

case officer time and other intangible factors, unques

tionably justifies his continuation as a integral part

of Project LIEMPTY.

Ba

Raymond H. GERENDE Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

"To collect operational information pertaining

LIMERICK personnel

and physical facilities through use

of photographic base houses."

Together with their

extensive photographic coverage of the LIMERICK target,

the photographic

bases also contribute other types of

operational information:

& LIMITED - This base compiles daily logs

indicating all arrivals,

departures and,

possible,

identities

of every person

visiting or working at the LIMERICK

target.

5.::

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

4-

This information is particularly useful in keeping track of

LIMERICK personnel and assisting with the identification of

visitors to the installation.

Also, LIMITED maintains a

summary attendance list of LIMERICK employees on a daily

basis; this enables the Station quickly to ascertain the

presence or absence of an employee on any given day.

Finally, one other significant service is performed by this

base, the radio dispatching of the LIEMBRACE surveillance

team on LIMERICK personnel and targets of opportunity.

LIMITED's photographic coverage is still concentrated on

visitors, as opposed to employees, to the LIMERICK

installation. A recent example of the base's contributions to

Station efforts is the case of|Joseph Ralph MAURI. In this

case, a LIENVOY lead indicäted that an American might visit

the LIMERICK target on a certain day.

The base was alerted

to dispatch the radio-controlled surveillance team on any

person appearing to be an American.

The results of this

assignment were indicated in MEXI-6392 and several other

cables. LIMITED was also able to provide photographs,

which when compared with photographs provided by Head-

quarters, left no question as to(MAURI's) identity.

b. LILYRIC - This base's output of high-quality clandestine

photographs has been in about the same quantity as last year.

In addition, the base operator, LIEMPTY-14, prepares weekly

reports on LIMERICK employees and their wives. LILYRIC

also performs the assignment of noting and reporting the

license plate numbers of all cars bringing visitors to the

LIMERICK installation, LILYRIC photographs also are con-

centrated on visitors to the target, as opposed to employees.

It should be noted that LILYRIC operates for photographic

coverage during the hours from daylight to 1400 hours each

day of the week except Sunday. The LIMITED base maintains

photographic coverage from 1400 hours to darkness each day

except Sunday.

LICALLA - As reported in previous correspondence, the

LICALLA base contributes to the collection of operational

information through photographic coverage of LIMERICK

employees and their families. Also, the base operator,

SECRETA

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET/

-5-

LIEMPTY-9, supplies extremely worthwhile information

pertaining to the apparent positions and jobs of the target

employees. He accomplishes this objective by careful

observation and analysis. LICALLA also maintains a daily

attendance roster of all LIMERICK employees. LICALLA

coverage of the target, both photographic and physical

observations, enables the Station to keep abrest of LIMERICK

personnel changes, a vital contribution to the Station's counter-

espionage eftort.

"To collect operational information and identify operational leads

pertaining to Station targets of opportunity." The LIENTRAP operation,

handled by GERENDE, is the major contributor to this objective. It

has been possible for LIENTRAP to take photographs and to perform

pretext investigations in support of numerous Station activities. The

cases listed below are cited as examples:

a. In the case of Cesar GONZALEZ Sanchez (see I, A, 3,a, above)

LENTRAP was able to procure photographs of GONZALEZ at his

Mexico City residence which, when compared to Headquarters

provided photographs, left no doubt that GONZALEZ was the

subject of interest to Headquarters.

b. LIENTRAP confirmed the identity of Olga CASTILLO de Ledon,

a frequent visitor to the LIMERICK installation and an ardent

supporter of the present Cuban regime, through a pretext

investigation of the residents of an apart ment building where

CASTILLO was believed to live. Later, LIENTRAP supported the

results of the investigation with excellent photographs of the

subject.

"To provide operational support to Station operations, i.e., rent

hotel rooms and apartments, and conduct counter-surveillances."

GERENDE is used frequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for

other Station operations and activities. GERENDE's comprehensive

area knowledge and personal operational capabilities combine to make

him an extremely valuable Station asset for such support activities.

GERENDE also procures post office box letter drops for the many

Station operations requiring them.

SECRET

---

