# 104-10186-10267

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10267

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TUMN IN PIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Repreduce

IN FORMATION REPORT.

PINFORMATIONAR EPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Into material concalas laformalin antallue the Malional Deleare of the t'alled Slates mithia tre Madrill ol lha Baplenado Lame, Tille

18, ViBC. Bore 709 and tot, the tranenlarion of rereialura of maleh la doy mennes lo an unethories verdua la prohibited by lam.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Antonto CARCEDO Ferrer

REPORT NO.

CSC1-316/00701-64

DATE DISTR

31 August 1964

NO. PAGES

3

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington,

D. C.

_DATE ACQ. AUGUSt 1964

FIELO REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRACINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL ON CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the scurce and includes supplemental

information

from the records of this Agency.

It is requosted that the addresses take no action on any of

the

individuals mentioned in the persorality reports without

first checking with this Ageray.

Sourco was shown a copy of the loy newspaper article

on the Marcos RODRIGUEZ Case.

In screening the text of the

article he commented ou A:""in CARCEDO Ferrer, pseudonym "andrea,

witnesses at the irlal.

Source sald that

CARCEDO was a translator

for lhe Department of Information

Services (SI) in

the Direccion General de Inteligencia

(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

Source added

that CARCEDO will probably go to Prague shortly as the

the DGI and Czechoslovakian Security.

1,2, 3, 1, 5,6, 7, 8,9, 10, 11,12

Headquarters Comments.

1. An air passage list revealed that one Antonio CARCEDO

Ferrer, born 29 January 1931, in Habana,

Cuba, arrived in

• Paris on 13 September 1952, enroute to Prague via Brussels.

described as a student.

3

2

2.

A report dated 9 December 1952, from a usually rellable

source, said that Antonio CARCEDO, the young Communist

student

of the school of Arts and Sciences at the

University of Habana, bad recently returned fron Bucharest,

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEH

5

STATE

" ARMY

REP CINCLANT

(Nora. Fiold distribution indicated by "#")

NAVY

CINCSO #

A12

I&v'S

INSA

1XKXX

i0.a

factorted trat surgened

drooprading ded

bartenteres

TIBI 2

2

DIN FOI

HILLA/EOB I/WELS/R

WILSAAL

SIL MAI'S

TOTALE

TION REPORT MINFORMATOI

NERERORT

_CILIA

2LCI/RäA

LX-1647

3 LEBRISH

'i HASH'BR!

I: KO PROJECT(AMMUG/I)

1561-316/00701-89

RID/dE

coronaris i li

WA/SAT T WE WE1 (2), CIA, RID

/HSIK: LD: 4wk

3/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

• NO FOKEIGS DISSEN

- 2-

¡here he hai renresented Cuban students at the Congress ni the

International thion of students (IUS).

3.

# ialrly tellible source, in a report dated 25 day 1955.

stated

that Andres CARCEDO, possibly identical with Antonio CARCEDO,

mas an aótire Juventud Socialista Popular (Cuban Communist Youth

Organization-JSP) member.

He

is described as young. still

considered in the informative jears,

not yet well indoctrinated,

but enjoy's

considerable confidence of the USt leaders.

4. An untested source, in a repurt viler "s July 1955, stated that

Antonio CARCEDO was an active JSP menber.

5.

In a 21 December 1955 report, a usually reliable source gave

the felloring information on

Antonio Francisco CARCEDO Ferrer:

—- CARCEDO was born in Habana, Cuba, on 29 January 1931,

to Leocadio CARCEDO Saasedra and Ana Celia FERRER Gener.

Their seders was Calle figuras No. 370, altos, between

Esperanta an: Gloria.

CARCEDO wAS

single and In his

thira jear do a five

jeal course at the School of

Agriculture at the University of Habana. • He has three

brothers:

Aldo, born about 1941, is a student at the

Colegio San Alejandro, Habana; Sergio, born about 1938,

is a student at the Escuela de Artes y Oficios, Habana;

and Leocadio, married to Sonia VALDES Y, Noa, is a mechanic.

CARCEDO told source that ideologically he is an enthusiastic

Conmunist and is a member of Juventud Socialista (Cuban

Communist Youth Organization - JsP).

CARCEDO sald that

he has never belonged to the National Pro-Peace Committee.

He studied five years at the Escuela de Artes y Oficios;

in 195? he attemiod tho stront Concess held in Bucharest,

Rumania, as a representative of the starents de thit school.

6. An untested

source, in a report dated 25 November 1900, stated

that Antonio Francisco CARCEDO Ferrer is one of the four nost

active leaders of the JSP at the University of Mabaua.

7.

In August 1958, a representative of this Agency showed several

sources a photograph of Antonio CARCEDO Ferrer.

The: source

identified the person in the photograph as being the sam

individual who transited Quito, Ecuador, in Decenber 1957 ind

who identified himself as being Raul Eloy FERNANDEZ Saenz.

FERVANDEZ Saenz is also known as Raul E.

FERNANDEZ and possibly

is identical with Roberto FERYANDEZ., aka Roberto RIVAS.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGS DISSEM

- 3.

8:

In a report dated 26 Fobruary 1959, it was reported that Antonio

CARCEDO, probably Identical w1:h Antonto Francisco CARCEDO Ferrer,

the Cuban Communist Party Youth Leader, had reservations from

Habana to Lisbon on 27 February 1959, from Lisbon to Amsterdam on

1 March 1959 and from Amsterdam :o Vienna on 2 March 1959.

His

assage had been pald through to Mexico. (This travel was verifiec

oy alrline manifests included with later reports.

9. In a 30 April 1959 report, a usually reliable source identifled

photographs of Raul Eloy FERVANDEZ Saenz and Antonio CARCEDO

Ferrer as being identical with the person known as Robert RIVAS.

10. On ll March 1960, a local Habana newspaper (name not given)

announced that Antonio CARCEDO was made Secretary of Propaganda

of the First Latin American Youth Congress.

11. A usually rellable source, in a report dated 6 March 1961, reported

that Antonio CARCEDO Ferrer was in Moscow for the First World

• Youth Forum to be held there in late

July or early August 1961.

12. Orfscral airline' manifests recaled the following travel by

Habana lo Mexico

- Il April 1961

Mexico to Santiago

- 13 Apral 1961

Santiago to Montevideo - 24 April 1961

Montevideo to Copenhagen - 27 April 1961

C R

NO

FOREIGN

E T

DISSEM

---

