# 104-10124-10200

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10124-10200

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

OS FILE NUMBER

RESPONSE TO DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE REQUEST FOR SECURITY CHECKS

FROM: Clearance Support Branch, Personnel Security Division

TO : Domestic Contact Service, FO: Miasi (Baldare) 03

SUBJECT'S NAME

Last

First.

MEROLA:

бовера

OTHER NAMES USED INCLUDING MAIDEN, ALIASES, ETC.

THIS NOTICE IS VALID THRU

961977

(Mo.- Yr.)

Middle

Rays:07d

DATE 210o 1972

5 July 2972

US CITIZEN

ALIEN

USE OF SUBJECT DURING THIS PERIOD BY OFFICES OTHER THAN DCS

(except those having prior interest) MUST BE COORDINATED WITH DCS.

1.

Reference is made to your request for security checks on the Subject person. If the identifying information furnished is erroneous in any

way, this division should be notified immediately. Checks based upon erroneous information are invalid.

2. The necessary checks have been completed and no pertinent information has been obtained except as noted below:

CITIZEN:

Passport data attached.-

Subject was last favorably investigated in

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Denied Area Case: FBI Check was completed _

Other NAC's were completed

This office has no objection to Subject being used in accordance with DCI's memorandum dated 25 November 1961.

Summary of noteworthy information is attached for your consideration in determining the extent and level of your use of Subject.

ALIEN: This is not an approval for this alien's access to classified information.

FBl has no objection to your preliminary contact with Subject. (Resubmit with full biographic data if contact is to continue.)

FBI has no objection to continuing contact with Subject.

Pertinent information has been developed, and is attached.

3. This advisory on investigative results is for contact purposes only and is not to be construed as a clearance of Subject person beyond that.

4. Coordination of prior covert interest:

Not necessary

No objection interposed by -

Please contact

5. Remarks:

Chief, Personnel Security Division

FOR DCS/HQS USE ONLY

FORM

2-70

2941

USEDIRIONOUS

7 - OS/PSD

CONFIDENTIAL

---

