# 104-10164-10320

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10164-10320

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

1. DEC

couNter Cuba

сітічн

SAROLLED DISSE

are

that

REPORT NQ..

SUBJECT

0503-3/657,597

31 October 1963

Soliciting of Funds by the

DATE ASTE

Moviniento Insurreccional de

Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR) NO. PAGES

for the Purchase of Two P-51°s

or Similar Aircraft

NEFEXENCES

2

DATE Of

25 September 1963

INFO.

Shru

НАСЕ в

United States, Miami

DATE ACO. (10 October 1963)

HELD REPORT NO.

UFG-3869

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INIORMATION SOURCE GRADINOS ANI DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A member of a group of Cuban emigres trained in the tech-

niques of information collection.

The group has provided

useful reports for over two years.

The following is the gist of a circular letter wich Dr.

Orlando Bosch Avila, general coordinator of the Movimiento

Insurreccional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR, In-

Burrectional Movement of Revolutionary Recovery), 18 send-.

Ing to various Cuban exiles, requesting their financial

assistance for the purchase of aircraft:

25 September 1963

Esteemed compatriot:

1 acon be the ca buch

Is you must have learned by the press, our organ-

ras bejun bombing the industrial and military

targets of the Castro regime, and we belleve that 1f

we have the opportunity and necessary resources we

wall be able to continue our softening-up attacks for

@ period of 90 to 120 days, supplemented by intiltra-

consequently we

•and of the coming year.

711":

the disgrace of the other organizations of eccompliah..

• 1ng an

attack every 10 or 12 montha because we balleve

that thie l0 in detriment to our cause rather than in

Lts benefle.

In order to be successful, in accordance

Chen om tend all attacke an aero by

¡'is that the boato, f1ring against the coasta, ato., ato.

09f.:

i1.9:!1

CONTROLLED DISSEM

DiA

HHYOINCLANT

NSA

GINGSO

TREASUKY

191A

LONS

1784

14016

THE COALS

3:1.83/0:1011

Agnatell

8:1.W711

VAM

4468-1664

GHDN -5/657,591

TRASIMON

OTOGDLYSUN SEC

BAS 10

подій то." !

4, PL 3,CA 1, DODS 1,

LIAIGON

• ..att..

---

