# 104-10186-10188

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10188

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION IRE

FORMATION REPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

la maserta contalna information aderiina lha Malinoal Defenr al lha Unllad alaton vithis tho messine ol lso reptonago lama Til

. UBO. Bora T93 and The the cranemladun ol rarelalion il chica la any mander la an unauthorped pararo la prurialles by lai

SECRET.

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRYCuba

SUBJECT InU RENAN

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00631-65

DATE DISTR. 11 February 1965

NO. PAGES : 1

REFERENCES

- Only

• Do Not Reproduca

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washing-on, D. C.

DATE ACQ. December

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOVACE GRADINOS ARE DIPINTIVE. APPRAISAI OR CONTENT IS TENTANIVE.

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who servod with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report da one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It 1s requested that the addressees lake no action on any of

the individuals mentloned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

hen source joined the Direccion Gencral de Inteligenci:

General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI), fnu RENAN wa:

working at the headquarters

bullding.

was in existence, he was

ors eu od bureauhen be A Nep ament

also, il one timo, the desk officer for El Salvador in the

Seccion Central (Central American

Sectlon) of the Departamento

de Liberacion Nacional - LN) In the DGI.I

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on RENAN.

5

3

SECRET

NO

FOREIGN

DISSEM

lore 100.

3

2

STATE

DIA

I ARHY

REP

CINCLANT

(Norn. field distribution Indicared oy "#".)

I NAVY

CINCSO *

AIR

IA:S

INSA

1UXX

1 oce

FBI 2

INFORMATION RECORI

INFORMALONERERORT.

MAL'SALEOB

WE/ 5/R-

HE LAUR

i5-2

CHILLA

3_ CI/RSiA

MIE CANDIN

3, LE BRITISKL:

aill /Sita CL

WlL-AAVE

TOrAL WII, SA

RID, AN

8 (1). WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID I

1Y 2354

DFGA 19020(9Dcc6))

-YO PROJECT-ANNUGVIS

1CSC1-2143001-55

SLS: 1D

418R

---

