# 104-10121-10157

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10121-10157

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

12 March 1954

MEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEF OF SECURITY QU

SUBJECT:

Mrs. David Morales

1, Mrs. Morales called the office at 1130 on the above date to

inquire if any mail had been received fron her husband and to advise

that $67.50 had been deposited to her account so she would not be able

to repay the $400 advance at this time. I advised her that there was

not any mail and that the $400 had already been deducted from her

deposit, thus the low sum of $67.50.

2. She then asked if she could have Bill's number as she had

As I was looking it up a very definite click was heard

over the telephone as if someone had lifted the extension phone. I

asked her if there was anyone at her house to which she replied no.

I then checked the extension on my phone but there was no one on that

phone.

When I returned to my phone I asked Mrs. Morales if she was on

a party line to which she replied that she was not but there was still

someone on the line so perhaps I should call back later. I told her I

would.

since I will not be th the office this afternoon to receive

Instructions from you, I will call her from an outside phone and tell

her not to call the office again unless she receives further instructions

to the contrary.

'I will advise her of Rip's number but tell her not

to give her last name when making a call.

03

(Bachma, Beyens)

Twille.

fleetie.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

182)

---

