“'404-10169-10006 [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PAGE a1
TORSG61E55% AUG 73

“Stcr f 8635272 AUG 73 STAFF
Crre wifHtang) 19275

Crd 997320)

ahs

DOC. MICRO. SER.
Le FOLLOWING ARE[STATION\ TRACES SUBJECTS REF?

SEP 12 1973
UMICROFILMED

Ay EVELIO DUO U Es SUBJECT PosSteLY IDENTICAL
EVELIO DUQUE HIVAR AKA LUIS HAR 1 -N HERNANDER i
(201-302000), FILE WAS TRANSFERRED HOS MAY 1968, INDEX |
CARDS REFLECT Dod REPORTED AS 23 JAN 27 AND 43 DEC 26. ALIEN |
», REGISTRATION NO, Adz 418 168, PER(UFGH}271, 27 FEB 61. SuBvecT i
| WAS ONE OF HOST WANTED GUERRILLA LEADERS ESCAMBRAY AND HAD BEEN fh i

QOJECT INTENSIVE SEARCH BY CUBAN GOVT. HIS QUERRILLA GROUP
{MNOWN AS LEGON DEMOCRATICA CONSTITUCIONAL (LOG). ENTERED
“"UeS. 9 JUNE OL AT HtAHES POA WAS GRANTED auQ 62, PER

SEPT 64 POT REPORT, DUQUE WAS COMMANDER ANTI=CABTRO FORCES
“PROM AU OBSAPR 64, :

Oe WERHINEO Dt Am IW 1964, ONE HERMINGO DIAN ie
© }OARCTA (2049863648) WAB REPORTEOLY SHUOOLINO NARCOTICS OR ad
Leama euorer 5 eae
OU - G.
Epre et : RECORD COPY - 06AuG B, H
es : H a ie iit .

i

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
...Do. Not Reproduce



T 441386 PAGE 02

TOR16616552 AUG 73

ACTING AS COURIER BETWEEN NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS IN MEXICO AND
UrS.» USING PUERTO RICAN DOCUMENTATION. WOULD VISIT HIS
“MEXICAN WIFE WHO RESIDED HAVANA. THEY HAVE SON WHO BORN
“ws, TT ALSO RUMORED THAT DIAZ HAD MEETINGS WITH LOCAL
HEXICAN POLICE SHIEF HHO PERSONAL FRIEND, DIAZ TRAVELLED
FREQUENTLY BETWEEN HIAMZ AND NEW YORK AND ALWAYS SEEMED.
70 WAVE LARGE AMOUNTS MONEY, ANOTHER 1965 REPORT
INDICATED DIAZ WAS MILITARY COORDINATOR 3eTH NOVEMBER
MOVEMENT AND HAS ONE OF GROUP WHICH ATTEMPTED INFILTRATE
CUBA i966, ae
2. SLIGO TRACES CONTAIN NO INFORMATION CONNECTING | ‘puoue
WITH DRUG TRAFFICKING, THEY OF OPINION DIAZ IDENTICAL WITH
SANDALIO HERHINO DIAZ GARCIA WHO WAS REPORTED BY CUBAN RADIO
AS HAVING GEEN KILLED DURING 1966 ATTEMPT To INVADE ISLAND.
WE WAS ALSO REPORTED 1966 AS POSSIOLE GOC AGENT INFILTRATED
“"UeS. ONLY ADDITIONAL SLIGO INFO ON DUQUE AS FOLLOWS! DPOBt
43 JAN 1927, LAS VILLAS. DURING STRUGGLE WITH BATISTA
REGIME, SUBJECT WAS HENBER "13TH OF MARCH REVOLUTIONARY
DIRECTORATE. ® AND JOZNED QUEARILLAS ESCAMBRAY 1956. IN
. AN 195% JOINED REBEL ARMY WITH RANK OF SARGEANT. HAS
4 re ‘a I



AGENCY MESSAGE

\ T 441326 | PAGE 83-83

| TOR10618552 AUG 73 : sil 19175

_ AGTIVE EXILE GROUPS U,S. AND CONNECTED WITH RECE. iN
4983, HE WAS ACCUSED BY DRLAND BOSCH AVILA OF
WESAPPROPRIATION FUNDS GIVEN HIN To CARRY QUT WARLIKE
ACTIVITIES AGAINST CUBA, BOSCH CLAIMED DUQUE USED FUNDS

“ QN WOMEN AND PARTIES AND DEMPED ARHS HE RECEIVED INTO SEA,
NO OTHER INFO, : (93
So FILE: 2eeeta-s2735 [24fize-25. €2, iMPDET

eGcnert

rol
