# 104-10112-10148

## Page 1

8104-10112-10148

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Đo Nọt Reproducer

4 March 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: CHIENCiE

Personnel Security DivIsOr

SUBJECT

it Reäsaignment

for

the ree liraqut of that clearance ba granted

ZRJ EWEL

Career Agent,

to Carácas, Yenezuela under

316-97:

5023:

Is security gladrance number 1à.

will depart

It 18 planned that

Headquarters

during June, 1965:

Desmond FitzGerald

Chief.

Western Hemisphere Division

Date:

7/12/1v

Security Ampiovel has been granted for.

the use

•is request

Secury Division^

die p53

SECRET

---

## Page 2

10 5025=

TO

THROUGH:

SECRET

REQUEST FOR DOMESTIC COVER LIST ENTRY OR CHANGE 3

SUBMIT THIS FORM IN DUPLICATE, ENCLOSED IN SEALED ENVELOPE!

: Central Cover Staff..

Office of Security

DATE.

HAL

SUBJECT:

(True Name)

Đ6 U 1905-

-J ENTRY

Inclusion of

Subject

OD.

the Domestic, Cover list

requestedsas noted

be lowess

When

notified

i thát co

cover

hasabeen estarlished Subject Tia

4278 39-48

specifically ai

authorized and

instructed to conceal his Agency

affiliation

" CHANGE Subject 1s

currently included on the Domestic list For the reason

5 on M

noted below, it

is

requested that:

613.

302/46-31

This

employee, be removed from

the Domestic Cover 1ist

3 The following change be made

militar;

scheciled for dutr ati

1S09

пірнай с

OTHER GOVT."

USE OF COVER

1300.

OPERATIONAL ONLY

STAFF

OR

DIVISION

REQUESTING OFFICES

6hidK Matin)

Chaster B

CENTRAL COVER STAFF APPROVAL

OFFICE, OF SECURITY

•* =554,216

SIGNATURE

DATE

SECURIT

1322

SECRE

---

## Page 3

1e 5025*

T SECRET

REQUEST FOR DOMESTIC COVER LIST ENTRY OR CHANGE

SUBMIT TEIS FORM IN DUPLICATE, ENCLOSED_IN SEALED ENVELOPE

Central Cover Staff

Office of Security

37 1 23.49 0 A MEM

TO

THROUGH:

SUBJECT:

iTroe

INE: 19)

ENTRY.

Inclusion of Subject

motified that

spect etcalty author ired and instructed to concent highlgency

7 CHANGEL Subjectra

Cutently Included on the Domestic Let b

Fordthe reason

noted below, it is requested that:

Le told employee be

removea Pron the Domestig cover fier

EJ. me Pollong change be made

Kata here to eas

ly scheduled for duty storIor

TYPE

USE

OF COVER

STATE

OPERATIONAL

OTHER CONTE

ONLY

REOUESTANS OFFICE

STAFF

OR

DIVISION 'S

6 ти

cha cie

CENTRAL COVER STAFF APPROVAL

'URE

SIGNA

DATE

1322

SECRET

---

