# 104-10219-10066

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10219-10066

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RE CEL: G00C0990H 4004 DO M01CAA CASE SE

MAMA

FLO INDER DULY

80.36

111722 2E

Cut und tanage disadio, dul dilitanto dinetal

SE I A PILINTIL SCULET KANTA

48 +5-1396 ten 593

$ 592427.

sensit in fin

4EN?-7178

wition: +900-42310031

Pirican tin, into

pains their

HE CUT EM 21

Said say dre taste

at 1i.

17 dies 58

0ủ.

141 г.

Rescist.

1500 9

tal 4539

+ woe 14

PRA: 100 A5m, L0r208; fis

10: 10,29

21: 9 itsreira criesia 58151218

==:

• о tri

surna titler.

Gas: 0)

ai. Mena

Frito la Tale, in tor sii

12t tolerans dis

1523.217.dg

27: 10196

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

(ober filled In)

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOC. smugOL

• No.

DATE OF DOC.

DOCUMENT LESTIFICATION

FILI CLASSITICATIEN GE

CERT

Merco Draft

DOC. SUBJECT

Resulto of Our Surry

13 Jeet (727)

Cuban Gosets

SOURCE TRI DINATION

SOURCE CRYPTOY

COS Lima did well to raise the question as to shat will

rEXT happen, Vis a XiS our operational security, when the Cubans

achieve diplonatic recognition in the various latin Anerican

countries where this is gradually occuring. The responses

from the Branches indicate that we do have a considerable aroun:

of operational activity and equity that revolve around our Cuban

assets and that we would do well to begin a gradual cut-bach in

our lse of Cubans, given the targetting that we presume will be

made on then as the Cuban CI eifort begirs in the various

countries.

2. Horever, the solution to our probles should be a gradun!

onc and keyed initially to where the official Cubar presence is.

and then to those countries where it is coning. Therefore we

start with peru.

b. GICITRON-4, who has been Treasurer of the 26th

July movement in the period 1957-58

for LITHGOE.

Indicate The Subject,

Project Or

201 File No. Ia Which Tais

Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF dDI (LiAR.

middle)

GICITRON -4

8÷ 60

867

MEDUS

201-

SEGREI

---

## Page 3

14:00000 /

SECRET

15 August 1972

MEMORANDUY FOR: WH/FI

SUBJECT

:.

GICITRON- 4

a. GICITRON-4

b. Subiect is used by the Bogota Station to

an operation handled by Errol

P. LITIGOE, also a Cuban, who is neninally Subject's

c. Cuban

d. Legitinate businessman who was fornerly in Mexico and

now aanages a "lexican business fira in bogota.

c.: Resident. alien. of Colombia.

f.= Subject has received no training in clandestine opera-

tions, though he was involved in several clandestine

Cuban

activitics while treasurer of the 26th of July

Hoverent during 1957-53.

B. Since Subject provides

LITHGOE, he is

not.

required to utilize any tradecraft.

Maving ais ona

содраду

h. Due to his position, Subject is probably well-known in

the Cuban cormunity, but he perforas no operational

tasks.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

• :8.€

saT: 11:1/3/60

т: 586761034

•15:2 AUGUST 1922

ADLE SCEALTAR:AT ECSSLSLIDATIOIE

37.

PUTAL COPIES: // -/

SECRET

He 24s 410/1141. .41999

INDEX

I NO INDEE

D' TILE IN CS FILE NO..

28/2v

RETURN TO _

DRANCH

SECREI.

до ГобботА

• 70072 20 172

CITE DIRECTOR

..

7

HES ATTEMPTING ASSESS THREAT GROUING PBRUMEN DIFLOR RIL 3 5

PRESENCE IN HEMISPHERE CRÉATES FOR EKTRUST ENFLOYED FBRUMEN ASSETS.

2.

HAS RECORDS SHOW' ERROL À. LYTHGOE

GICITRON-4 AND GICITRON-S

IN-BOGOTA- PLS INDICATE IF STATION HAS

ADDITIONAL PBRUMEN ASSETS VE UNAWARE OF, OR OTHERS WHOSE FILES

SHOULD BE REVIEWED.

3. DOES GICITRON-5 CONTINUE WORK FOR LYTHGOE ANY CAPACITY?

4. FILE 17-320-21. EX-Z, APDIR, UN-SISH.

END OF MESSAGE

HAS COMMENT:

BASED

DATED

MEMORANDUM.

"SURVEY OF CUBAN EXILE ASSETS,"

25 JULY 1972, C/UH/FI.

C/UH/FI_

-GRIL_.

WARING NOTICE

7

SOPHIE 0.

_APPROVAL OF. DIRECIOR

¡maleso iusco iota, in nod dole es purse)

Mok.cgm

• amecha

THEODORE G. SHACKLEY

CHUHD

HELIASING OFFICER

GARDNER

R.

HATHAWAY

RECURI

PUNNTTÜ2715E

COORDINATINE OFFICERS

SECRET

---

## Page 5

101 or Atation, bogata

FOUNTIS 1E2 MOONIEC

¡EU NODAME MOUNTED

CORY QUANTIO DESMA

CUT RIDE: DIDERNE

*Chief, Bestors Healsphere D1v18100

"GICITRON-A

(201-267298)

REPERPACE: HLBA-12320, 10 Novesher 1970

Operatlonal Approval was granted on 8 February 1971 for

the use Of OICITLOH-1 as requested in Reference.

DISTRIBUTION:

2 - C03/Bogota

C3 L.:

- RII

1 - ПH/3/C (Chrono)

DOPANH STMBOL AND FLAMBER

DATE

17 FEB 197

HLBN-6561

typed 11

February 1971

OKSALATION

HOS FILE KURDER

SECBET

201-267298

ORIGINATRES

OFFACE

WH/3/C

Ever 44" bib.

ПРАЯ

(11 FEB 71)

11034R

COORDINATING

OFFICE SYLABOR

DATE

OHREETS NUTE

C/WH/3/C

1=2

із на

Marlaus

1447320

роси

53 LiST PRIVIONSFOITIOM

OFFICE STMBOL

MC, NH/3

¡DATE

122 FetTi

140:

RELEASING

once su strolle

Alfonso Spera

DISPATCH

---

## Page 6

14-00000-

SECRET

Ho. 201-267298

MEMORANDUH FOR: Chief, WH/3/C - P. Kaylor

Sperational Approval is hereby granted in the case of GICITRON/4

for the purpose specified in your request

dated as follows:

As outlined in Section VI (4) of Part II (undated).

Fuld Tistifel

"Fet"

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this

Office, and is granted under authority contained. in CSi and CSI-? 10-5.

157. John E. Howard

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPOPE DIVISION

Date: & February 1971 lc

SECRET.

FORM

1-88 124

19)

---

## Page 7

SECRET

2 February 1971

MEMORANDUN FOR: CI/QA

ATTENTION

:. Mr. Lally

SUBJECT

: GICITROH-4 (201-267258)

REFERENCE

:Form 889, dated 19 January 1971

The Information on GICITRON-A contained in DBF-974J,

18 September 1958, was located and reviered.

The IDiOT-

astion is considered non-derogatory by this

Deab. It

duplicuted information already in Subject's 201.

Pattie S. Kaylor

WH/3/Colombla-"

DISTRIBUTION:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

201 File

1 - 1.1 Chrono

PSKaylor: KH/3/C: blb

(2 February 1971)

Partics

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATICH AND REVIEW

1 February 1971 lc

TO:

C/WH/3/C - P. Kaylor

FROM: CHIEF; CI/CA

187 John B. Howard

IN ORDER TMAT

FURTHER CONSIDERATION. MAY BE GIVEN

THAT YOU FLAMISH THIS

THE INFCAMATION CHECKED

201-267288

SUBJECT:

GICITPON/4

REQUEST FOR

SOR DEV ARE ON ORM TOSS STO

15 REQUESTED

TRM.ES

OPERATICOAL

AND DIVISION TRACES

DESULTS. C

TECHNICAL IN: ERROGATION:

EPORT AT El'DA

ATTACHED REFIZENCE

XX& OTHERS (Seri Benarhe)

Please locate and review FBI data re Rafael Mario LLERENA

Rodriguez, sent to this Agency on 8-21-58, p. 1.

Please forward your analysis as to whether this information is

derogatory or non-derogatory.

I Fel 11

os 889.

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

19 January 1971 1c

TO:

201-267298

C/WH/3/Col. P. Kaylor

FROM: CHIEF, CI/DA

187. Jobri B.. Bovera

EUTIIET..

GICITRON /1

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATIDN MAY BE GIVEN

REGUEST FOR

APPROVAL

THIS

THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE-THE INFORMATICS. CHECKED BELCO... OR REVIEO INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

IT IS HELLESTED

OF

START'S

or

1414

INFORMATION

DIVISION

MISULTS

TRATES

INTERRDGATIEN

CONCURRENCE

КРОЯТ

ATCI/DA

#EvIE"

ATTACHES REFERENCE

XX ETMERS (S00 BORN"")

MEMO AT ClIDA

Please locate and review FBI data re Rafael Mario LLERENA

Rodriguez, sent to this Agency on 8-21-58, p. 1.

Please forward your analysis as to whether this information is

derogatory or non-derogatory.

sai Consident de. nog.

DRF 9745, 16 Sigi 58, 100-2-18.

Locates in Eterera's 201-215431.

DEM

8-89 889 08901278

SECRET

---

## Page 10

PP0 1060

189 .141 71

SECRET

(anes dillod in)

DT -6

NIO CONTROL AS. (filled

BID)

DOCUMENT SERYICE REQUEST

DATE OF REQUESI

KAYLOR PATTI

WHIICO

EXT• 5269

GG 196

382627

TUBE BS4

9RЛÀCH

Таоот но.

ThONk NO.

12 Jaa 1971

TO:

DATE

IMSTRICTIONS

RIDIFILES

DT-6

REOUESTER

RID/FILES

L0014

Hoae Drils:" 1or1o6!

Ueo tbis

files

ured ondior decumonte

lioo

ol fora

?.

Inclode bodfe

nunher

and robe

Block

gonsed

labol bas

aot been

J.

Indicare eypo of cbardo:

8. Teoporary

& Permane

8. Indicaro sourco of

polerence:

• Docancar eelerenco

froo

RID/ Index.

O Docuaenl relorence fros nource orber

haa

PID: Indox.

LLOFERA Rodriguez, Rafael 1ar10

HO FILE NUNBER

DOCUMEAT SPBOL ANO NLIBER

DOCUHENT DATE

100-2-18

FI Jeport

DBF-9745

C1 Anfuot-195

16/9/58

BOT FOLD TE TIEIES

Il Further Searit Lubirud

C&l1-17672

catt + 185341

re-18701

SECRET

130).

r.'t

5cst

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR IMFORHATION AND REVIEW

TO:

DATE

с по.

18 December 1970 lc

C/WH/3/Col - P. Kaylor:

FROM: CRIEF, CI/QA

201-267298

18/. Jobn E. Borard

GICITRON'4

IN ORDER THAT. FURTHER CONSIDERATION "MAY BE-GIVEN YOUR REQUEST-FOR AFPROVAL""IN. THIS CASE.

THAT YOU FURNISH THIS

THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELON.

'IT IS REQUESTED

OR REVIEN INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

PRo

TRACES

OPERATIONAL

AND

TEREOGATION

AUF OMMATION

REPORT

AT CI'DA

CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/ON

REVIEN OF

FOI REPCAT AT CI'DA

REVICO OF

ATTACHED REFERENCE

OTNERS (Seo departs)

Please locate and review FBI data re Rafael Mario LLERENA

Rodriguez, sent to this Agency on 8-21-58, p. 1.

Please forward your analysis as to whether this information is

derogatory or non-derogatory.

889

SECRET

---

## Page 12

DISPATCH

LESSIFICATICS

SECRET

#FO.

Chief, Westera Hemisphere Division

ЯВАСТ

ActIne Chlef of Station, Bogota KN

& GICITRON-4 (201-267298)

ACTION RIQUIRED - REFERENCES

ACTION: ProCess for OA

REP: #L3S-2641, 28 October 1970

PROTESSING ACTIOH

BARKED POR DVDIITS

¡NO BOCKINE PIOUTRID

11 14440111

ICAN NOGE INDEXING

DICROTILE

Forwarded herewith are three copies of Subject's updated

PRQ Part. II as requested in Reference.

DISTRIBUTION:

3-Chief, WHD w/att b/w

25 10%

CS COPY

CEDES REFERIMCE TO

DOSPATCH SYMBOL AND HUSSABEI

HLBA - 12320

OATMACAON

SECRET

DATE

10 November 1970

HOS FILE MUMBA

201-267298

---

## Page 13

SECRET

PRO NO.

таів 8ога

Rosa

PERSOMAL RECORD QUESTIUNMAIKE

PART 11 - OFERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATCH NO.

INSTRUCTIONS TO CALE OFFICEN

filled in by

• horn

or appropriato aulhority on tha bosla of sbo

boor avoilablo lo.

oal 400/080

farniahos

enderer o

all

•nal approval

Too, or doe

be obrained by

usual notbad to

docoonas or

Co-

nobjace's

bandaritial. 1l possibla, and los (2) c0s-

porablo.

(2) соріо0.

arite "NA." Il addicional apote ragoirod

CRYPTONYM

PSEUDONYM

GICITRON-4_ (Originally LITAKIL-1)

SECTIO

CONTACT AND DEVELPHEAT

¡IADICATE HOO, THEN, GHERE, AMY, AMO ON ANON SUBJECT DAS FIAST CONTACTED. DA LEVELOPED. First contacted

by Mexico Station CO Clyde SERYOCK (ps) On 21 Oct 59 (MBXI-4554) " "frend"

SHRYOCK visited Suject's business office and presented self as a

of Gustavo ARCOS Bergnes, who at that tine was Cuban Ambassador in Brussels,

Belglum and a former contact of SHRYOCE Uhile ARCOS was in Mexico prior to

1959,5

Purpose of meeting was to assess Subject's attitude towards the

Castro regise.

Subject was subsequently utilized by Mexico City Station

to assist in coordinating anti-Castro activities.

Borota Station contact with Subiert established in 1970

Errol R.

LYTHGOE.

•GICITRON-4 Eid

LYTHCOL are long-time friends and prefored operational tasks for JWNCE

when both verer Mexico City assets.

INDICATE THETHER SUOSECY COULO DE TURMEO OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MAMMO TO AMY MISPONSIBLE CASE OFFICER FOR

MANDLING, 19. SO, INDICATE TO sMOM.

Subject could be turned over to any Spanish speaking Case Officer.

LIST OTHER CASE OFTICERS SNO MAVE HANDLED

BEEN

ИНОПА.

SUBJECT

WHON

THEY MAVE

None.

Hi.co 1050a

H/watt to HLBA -12320

ES COPY

SECRET

201-267298

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECTICE 1!

KOTIV

SECRET

ARD CONTROL

ESTIMATE SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION, (Be decallad.

DO

Subject becane disillusioned uith the Castro regime early 1n 1959

because of the communist infiltration in the Cuban revolution.

Subject

is strongly anti-communist and anti-Castro and thus villing to lend

his services to combat these regises.

TE CHAT CONTROL, LF ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SURECT. (SE nO COARIOS.

or if there in a lack af rool coatrol

Except long-tine relations botreen Subject and Errol R. LYTHGOB

No actual control exists over Subject.

SECTION

COVER USES

BY

SUBJECT

NA

NA

COVER

VIETINGS.

COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAIMINE NIS INTORMATION: AND IN CONTACTING MIS INFORMANTS.

INDIÇATE SERVICE DOR OMICH SUBJECT THINKS ME (Bill DORK) (lE MORNIDE).

Subject presumably knows he is cooperating with JKLANCE

SECTION IT

INTELLIGENCE COURECTICAS AND TRAINING

EXPLAIN SUBJECT'S ANORA PAST OR PRESENT CONMECTIDS DITH ANY OTMER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE, IMDICATE MME EXTENT

SUCH CORMECTION IS ENDEA OVERTLY.

Subfect is not known to have worked for any intelligence service.

LIST DINER INDIVIDUALS

Nодеї.

ADdA) OMO KMON OF SUQJECT'S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

S. EXPLAIN ANT TRAIMING SUBJECT MAS MAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.

However,

Subject was involved in several Cuban clandestine

novenents while treasurer of the 26th of July Movenent during 1957-58.

SECTION Y

COLLAGAZATION

POTENTIAL

INDICATE OTHER FOREIOS PONER SUBJECT MOULO BE MOST LIBELY

TO COLLABORATE- WITH BECAUSE OF MIS IDEDLOGY OR PAST

ASSOCIATIONS, EXPLAIN.

None.

SECRET

---

## Page 15

SECRET

SELTICH YI

OPEPATICRAL

USE -

CONTACT

SUBJECT MAS

USED OR COUTACTED

ACTIVITY IN OMICH ME DAS ENGAGED AND THE TYPE OF INFOR.

55198

ІД 1960

Subjot was utilized by the Mexico City Station to assist in

the coordination of anti-Castro activities as part of the At Alwall

operatios.

Subject was rated a reliable source by the lexico City

Station.

LADICATE MOS

NA

MID

S..-PEDICATE

THE

TION OF

ME FURNISHES.

NA

• Subject is

"used o" the bogota

oustatio!

for status and

Errol R. Lythgoe who

is Subject's

DETAIL SUBJICT'S PROPOSIO

HA

TYPE

USE DA DUTIES.

SECTION WII

PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

DETAIL SUBLECT SIPROPOSED LLALSON TIRE SONTAGI OR OPERATIONAL USES

OHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A PORCIEN GOVERMMENTS

NA

THERE SUDJECT IS AN

ANOTHER AGENCY OF

THIS GOVERNMENTI:

NA

AGENCY RELATIDUSHIP MITH SUBJECT

PERSONNEL TUDE TO SUNSET.

RELATIONSMIP BITH SUBJECT I-E, TRAINEE.

OPPOSITE NUMBER, RENDERATION. IF AMY, AGENCY.

PERSONNEL

КмОБИ

Subject is an unpaid field agent of JKLANCE.

SECRET

/міс1

---

## Page 16

SECRET

SECTICE DI

QUALIFICATIDNS FOR GTRER OPERATIONS

INDICATE SPECIAL

6E0 OTHEA OPINATICES.

ADILITIES, PARROTS, DO QUALIFICATICS POSSESSED OY SUBLEGS

OMICH COULD COACEIVAELT DE BE ARUE

Subject has been 1n Latin America for a

number of years during

which tige he has numerous contacts and

friends.

SECTION

COACKITHEATS

ROPOSED TO PAY

COMMOS, PIEs.

SUASIOr-CA: OTHER METRES, SPECIFT AND GIVE

SUBJECT A MIGURRD SALATE, INDICATE IME DEENLY ANSUNT: IF PAYMENT-TO DE MIDE IN ERONINGE

DETAILS.

Subject is not paid/salary by the Station.

sabi

Ноде

ін отнсаI

MERRIO, MADE TO SIBJECT, (ESCApIO: Consisaones

SECTION XI

CE AND SECURITY

INDICATE THE DIELE ASCOCIES AND AIRLO FILES MITH MICH

SUBJECT'S HAME MAS DEIR CHECKED AND

THE RESULTS.

Mexico City Station files have been checked re Subject.

INDICATE OTHER INVESYICATIVE

SUMES TARLO TO VERIFY BIOGRAPMICAL

INFORMATION FURNISHED ON SUBJECT.

INDICRIE DUTTHEA; OF :O:T: PROVISIONAL OPEDATIONAL

FROVAL TOO SUBJECT'S ISE MAS

APPROVAL DR GFCRATIONAL AP.

aLEN PALVIDUSLI OBTAINED.

Operational Approval

A. DATE APPROVAL

OBTAIMED

6 June 1960

subject is an extle Cuban bustnessman" I'tha "trond Character who is

highly respected in the Bogota business community.

Subject 18 en

independent thinker and not fi easily nanipulated.

•ERE TA SAT On TA T9So MeXico Station

Subject net several times in his business office.

While at the office

a Cuban representative, Ricardo VIDAL Dominguels, saw SHRIDCK and on 2

occasions talked with the co.

At the time Subject felt VIDAL would no

talk about these contacts to Cuban officials. This occurred ten years

ago in Mexico and the Bogota Station does not believe this incident will

SEcTIOXI adversely effect tiesT'S PERSONA NeiTs present operationat ust of gabl

:8- USE OF LIQUOR. DRUES: CAMEL IMG.

Subject not known to have any overt vices.

SECRET

---

## Page 17

SECTION

1+19016998 Eig°,8

Boxing enthusiast

SECRET

AVOCATICHIAL INTERESTS

IN CORAT;

SECTION

GDIERAL

INDICATE SUE TEN

SUBULET'S LANGUAGE

AGILITIES AND CINIS CHARACIISISTICS, ARE SUCA AS HE COULD PASS AS

A, COLATET OR RIGIDA

DINER THAN MIS DES.

EXPLAIO.

Subject could pass. as: a native of any latin American. country.

MATIVE

INDICATI EMETNER INFOHMATIDO IN PAC FARTS I AMO 1I DAS DATAINTO DU BISEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSULAY. PILES.

CURRESPONSERCE DE OTMER

Infornation

obtained through LIFBAT, nane checks of Mexico City and

Bogota Station files, Mexican Government files, Dun and Bradstreet;

and Headquarters.

IT• OTNER

oc.para.031.

napras

NA

i; :

ROUTINE ACTION IS RIQUIRLO, IF ANO PAES PEQUIMATICA DO SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAIN. (AIDO

SECTION

EMERGENCY SONDITICUS RECENTACT ARRAMGEMENTS

GIVE FULL DETAILS PÉR. RICOGNITIDN SIGRAIS. SINI

ANERE COULD COOTAI! DE MADE.

ANET BONA FIDIS COULO INDIVIDUAL

MAKING СOЙРAСІ..

USE!

Not'applicable for the circunstances in which he is being used.

Should

there be a break. between GICITRON-4 and LYTHGOE and this or another

Station want to meet with hin to assess him for other operational

actlvities in the future it would only be necessary to mention his

friendship with SHRYOCK and his activities in conjunction with LYTHCOß.

SECTIOR XYI

MISCELLAAEOUS OPERATICHAL

DATA AND

REMARKS

SECRET

APPROPRI

очікви

+201-262295

---

## Page 18

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

ENSLINDUN FOR: Chier,

wD/3/Col - B. Merrell

201-267228

SUBJECT

REFERENCE: Your MesoTarIum, Dared

28 October 1970

188

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use, of this Subject

as set forti delor.

A Provisionel Operational Approval Issued by CI Staff grants the sage

authority, as a terporary basis, for the use of an icilvídual as the authority

granted iri an Operational Appro:al unless otherwise speclfied by CI/QA.

It is

based, however, only on prelisinary file checks and

investigation and 1s sub-

ject to a furtrer Pinal revier vien all investigatica is coupleted.

For linited ves Be requested in yoUr nano Of 28 Octobar 1970, the POl

1a reinstated unt 1l 30 Jenuary 1971.

To process the Operational Approval, full infortation (completed PRQ

Parts I and II). must be submitied as soon as possible end not later than six

(6) months

froi this date.

An Operational Approval sill follow ben all

in'estigation is coupleted

and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRa Parts I

and II... Cancellation rust be requested if use of Subject by interested Di-

visions ceases.

1S/ John. E. Horard

APPROVAL

CI, OPERATIONAL APFROVAL AND SUPFORT DIVISION

FORM 125

SECRET

DATE

30 October 1970

198

---

## Page 19

14:00000 g

SECRET

28 October 1970

HEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

ATTENTIOS

SUBJBCT

:

Air. Lully

GICITRON-4 (201-267298)

l.. ñe havo received your memorendus. of 22 October 1970

Informing us that GICITRON-A's f1le bag been closed..

Horever,

Iron Bogota StatIon COrIEBpODdenCO DE Snou tbat GICITROR-4 18

still of operationnl interest and there is a strong probability

that the alesing PRC Port lI hag been delayed by the receat

restriction on pouching naterinl to and fron the field.

2.

It 18 roquested that the file on GicImoN-d be reopenod

and his POA

be extended for an additional 30 days to silon time

8os the FRe Part Il to arrive or to be prepared 18 necó be.

Burdell Merrell

NH/3/Colonb1s

DISTRIEUTION:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - 1.1 File

x - 201 F1le

NH/3/C: Eerrell: blb

(28 October 1970)

SECRET

---

## Page 20

14-011000 "1

Acting. Chief of Station, Bogota

12O.

56 1:0IRS KOUTRES

DIE! QUAHHO DIST

ITS RIG INDIRITE

Chief, Festern Besisphere Division

чёлА

GICITRON-4 (201-267248)

TOM BEQUIRED - REMAINOS

ACTION: Forward PRQ Part II

REPERENCE: HLBS-2626, 15 September 1970

I. He have been notified that the POA for GICITROH-4 was

cancelled on 22 October 1970 because de falled to provide s

PRQ Part II showing the details of our present relations with

him.

De. made an attempt to complete this Part ll here at the

desk, but found that there were too many itens of information

that to do not have.

Re bave requested that GICITRON-4'S POA be extended for

an additional 30 days to allow time to provide the Part il.

He indicated that perhaps the document has been delayed by the

recent pouch restrictions.

3. He would appreciate the receipt of the PRQ Part II within

the next 30 days.

If it has crossed this dispatch

in the mail,

please disregard this notice.

DISTRIBUTION:

2-ACOS/Bogota

CROSS RUERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AMD MUMBER

1

- RI (F201)

1 = Chrono

SECRET

WH/3/C

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/wH/3/C

DATE

28 citro

DATE

SU OCT 1

and 28 ociaber 197

201-267298

ORIGINATING

(28 October 197d) 1034R

COORDINATING

OFFER'S MAHE

сами.

Smyth

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/WH/3

FOsM

53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

MFG: 11.00

DATE

28 Cat 30

120!

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SICANTURE,

Al fonso

pera 101

DISPATCH

---

## Page 21

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

DATZ 22 October 1970 lc

MEMORUTDUM FOR: C/WH/3/C

ATTENTION

: C. Roberson, Jr.

201-267298

tor,

pSF-

whit is states?

The file

GICITRON/ 4

and closed in CI/Od for the following reason:

Is cancelled

Pailure to subnit PRQ-II as required under CSI lo. 10-5 o- to

indicate: any further interest in obtalning approval fo: the operational use

of Subject.

Fueld wor

1°

Prior to anj future use of Subject, 1t will be necessary io furnish

a new approval request (Form #T72) to CI/QA.

18/: John E.. Horasi

CHIEF, CI/OPÉRATIONI APPROVAI AND SUPPORT DIVISION

FORM

s.as б9la:

SECRET

sas

---

## Page 22

WISRAI&N

Chief of Station, Bogota

SECZET

MARKID IOR INTETAI

NO INDIXIAS RIQUTZO

OKAY QUALITED DESA

CAN ANDGE DIDERING

FROM

Chief, Western Hemlapbere Division

GICITPOT1

(29:227256)

ACTION REQUED - DEFEENILS

ACTION REQUIRED: Please forsard PRe Part iI.

The PDA on GICITROl-s aspired on l september 1970.

Please subalt & PBQ Part II based on the current proposed.

USe Of GICITRONA vIthin S0 days.

DISTRIBITION:

•8 - COS/Bogota

IROSS REFERENCE 10

1 - (7201)

- Chrono

DETACH SVADOL AND MUNER

HLBS-2626

DATERAIN

BECRET

AKI

-

ATICER

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

DATE

16 SEP 1970

15 Septembs

MOS FILE HULASER

201-267298

ORIGINATING

COORDINATING

pau:

3AR

ETKER'S MAKE

DEAR STABOL

C/WH/ 3

1/5J 70.

1-61

53

USE PREVIOUE EDITIOA

RELEASING

OFACES AGHATURE

Alfonso Sper

DISPATCH

---

## Page 23

12-00000 1-

SECRET

TOATE

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

7 September 1970 JR

T0:

40.

WH/3/C C. Roberson, JI.

201-267298

•FROM:: CHIEF, CI/OR

SUBJECTI.

1S/ Jobn E. Horasa

GICITRON/ 4

IN CODER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERSTION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR

APPROVAL

THIS CASE.

IS REQUESTED

THAT. YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE

THE

INFORMATION CHECKED BELON.

OR

REVIEW INFORMATION AS IADICATED.

FIELD

TRACES

TRACES

OPEBATIONAL

AND DIVISION TRACES

DESULTS

TEMMICAL INTERROGATION

LIST

REVIEN OF STATE'O DOSSICA

REVIEO OF STAFFIO COLLATERAL IMECORATION

REVICE OF

SECURITY OFF.

REPORT AT.C8/OA

REVIEN OF

SEC.

off.

CONCURRENCE MINO AT CI/OA

REVIEr OF

REPORT AT CI'DA

WILLALD TECHARLE

OTHERS

(See Recarte)

MOTICE:

REMARKS:

Limited POA expired 6 September 1970. Please submit PRQ I.

If, within 30 days, no further interest in Subject has been indicated, POA

will be automatically cancelled.

Lie drug darl

889

SECRET

1208

---

## Page 24

SECRET

отю.

HOMA

MINE KR DOCTOS

NO BOOTIE EASED

ONLY QUALTE DESK.

CUE NOGE LINEST

Chief, Hantern Hensaghere Dista1en

ATION RIQUITED. LIRINCIS

FOrMATALAZ OL PRO'B I And II ON GICITRON=A

ACTION REQUIRED:

Hore.

REFERENCE

: 8ZBS-2533, 6 Apr1l 1970

Forwarded hereulth an Atrachuent l for station

infornet100.and.tha.I110. aro: 160-(2) copies of PAQ Part-II:

{05 GICITRO,-A (fOrBerly LITARIL)). Separate Cover Attach-

ment, Nuabsr 2, to this dispatch consists of teo (2) coples

of PRQ Part I.

ATTACHMENTS:

1.

PRQ Part

II, b/v

2.

PRQ Part

w/s/c

DISTLILITICS:

3 - OCf/Бogota (B/at75 1 & 2 Livo coptos esch, bly & u/e/c)

CROSS REFERBAGE TO

• RI 2013

I - Chrono

20 MAY ISTE

DSPANCH STADON RED HUESSER

1LES-2564

САТАтИй

70490

13 Hay 1970

IS ARE NUMBER

BRERRI

Parte

PSKay10r7

201-267398

ecr

(13 May 70)

COORDINATING

9494R

C.AH/3/C

13 May 70

OSHERS RUE

M. Clayti

Calvin N. Smyth

THE SYMBOL

C/NH/3

RELEASING

13 May 70 Al fonso

FORM

53

USK PREVIOUS EDITION.

MFа, 1110

DISPATCH

---

## Page 25

PRO :0.

10

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

:::7/6PART 1 - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS:

prite "NA"

SECTIOR I

I. MANI (PirDS)

Kanuel

MANE. IN MATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCHIPT

quiddles.

• !

ADD

GEMERAL PERSONAL LAL PHYSICAL DATA

(LOOR)

906O 1103°6

(NOO)

Toonor Tor and plece aT uie,

ALIASES.

BIDIHAMES., TELECODES, LEGAL CHANER. IN MANE

PLACE OF

DIRTH

so.

DATE OF BIETH

Decontier 1913

PERSONAL

MAGYS (LiQUor.

drugo.

Arablina, parasouros

COURT RICORO (COUPE.

SEX

D. AGE

DESCRIPTION

(l'ae

C- APPARENT AGE

N. COLOR OF MAIA

1. COLOR OF EYES

1)26k

SCARS AND MARKS OR OTHER DISTINGNISMIME FEATURES

NEIGHT

stancards ol

A-HEIGHT

j. TEETH

iT possibla,

4. COMPLEXION

T9. FAce (stage)

A. BUILD

I. POSTURE

П. БЕНЕКАС

APPEARANCE

O. PROMINENT FEATURES

F. OTHER IDENTIFYING FEATURES

ATTACH SAMPLES OF SIGVATURE AND HANDUZITING:

ALSO SATED PHOTOGEAFY

FORM

3: 88

1050 ESE PARTIOUS IDI

OBTAINAbLE

• 44- 20).

---

## Page 26

14-00000

SECTION

CITIZENSMIP

ATI

CITIZENSHIP

ANO ANY SUBSCQUERT CITIREASMIRS (Il dilIERONE shon SEes SO.)

PRESENT RESICENCE (IndiCato an o

landal 01 dub-8 0n008)

PRAMAMENT ADERESS. (Il dillorene thes 1100 12.)

15 U.S. MATURALIDEO CITATEN. GIVE NAME, DATE, COTY. ANO NUMBER

OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED

TRAVEL OUTSIDE COUNTRY

RESIDENCE (CoDaIries.

cad purpores)

4969

SECTICH

FRESENT OCEUPATION

dor gorge

18. FINANCIAL STATUS (EDiniNG",

bark deposito,

Colora cincacially)

OCCUPATIONAL

17. TITLE

FIRANCIAL

DATA

18- SALARY (PEr MADON)

and proporty)

SECTION IN

¿O CEMBERSMIP IN RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS

ORGARIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

iPRESENT AND.

• PAST MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL ASD SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS, POLITICAL AFFILIRTIONS

AnCh Deanured of the d0 ei July Roverdos Lu Koxco

SECTION Y

88.

MAME ANO LOCATION OF SCHOOL

EDUCATIONAL CATA

SCHOOLS

MeME OF COURSE

DATES ATTENDED

ro

•R GREI

DECEIVED

LANGUAGE

lanquade

ir

chich. you

LANGUAGES

AND

DIALECTS

BEAD

COMPETENCE

DRITE

NO

TES

NO

YES

UNDIRSTAND

YES

NO

NOIRISO

---

## Page 27

14-00000

• SECTION YO

¿r BRITING.

SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS

cive orrars cocluding ritits

DAME'S OF PUBLISHLOS AND PLALICA-

19. SPECIAL RAILLS.

ABILITIES.

MODDIES SUCA AS MADIO, PHOTOLELENO, ARE.

SECTION YI

'COUMTAY

MILITARY SERYICE:

SATEY

та

UNIT

DUTY°

"IDENTIFYINE COUNTRY. INDICATE MHEDE SERVICE

PRISONER.

PERFORMED, DECORATIDAS.

AND THY DISCHARGEO.

GIVE DETAILS. 18 BAR

SECTION

SOTE: "

INDICATE CHIGVULOGICAL

ISCLUSIVI. DATES (FRON-TO

OF

EMPLOTMENT HISTORY

EMPLOYMENT LISTING LAST POSITION

FIRST.

ADDRESS

TYPE DF WORK

SALART OR EARNINGS

INCLUSIVE DATES TITOR-jO, DO CAPLOTER

27.

ID. TUDE OF MORE

SALARY

OR

CARMINGS

SACLUSIVE

DATES (FrOR-TO.

EMPLOYER

TIRE OT WORK

SAL ARY

OR EARNINGS

SECLUSIVE DATES (FrOG-TOID.

EMPLOYER

d.

TYPE OF BORK

SALARY OR EARNINGS

INCLUSIVE DATES (FROO-TO DO EMPLOVER

30

TYPE OF'EORK'

REASOO EDO LEAVINE

C. ADDRESS

P. REASOR TOR LLAVING

C. ADERESS

REASOE TOR LEAVING

ADDRESS

REASON TEN LEAVING

C. ADDRESS

REASON: FOR LEAVING IN

INCLUDI ANY COVERTUETT

DIpLOTUEUT.

---

## Page 28

14-00000 1735 wr

SECTICA

1X

31. CORCH ONE:: SINGLE

$8.598T8 DASE.

PLACE

AND

MARITAL STATUS

MARRIED

8100010

101912

"DO ALL SEPARATIDAS.

DIVORCES DO ASAUIMENTS

Trouters

•18€

OR

MUSBAND!

98- 0AME

1E YOU MAVE

GIVING

DATA

SPOUSE

BEES MAURICO MORE THAO ONCE

¡SCLUDING ANNULMENTS, USE SHEET TOR FORMER DIFE DO HUSBAND

REQUIRIO DELON FOR ALL PREVIOUS UARRIAGES.

(Fires)

(biddle)

(L091)

LA. DATE OF MARRIAGE

38. PLACE OF MARRIAGE.

DA-DALE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIATH

3O.RRTIJNALITY AT GOATH

30. SUBSESUENT CITARCHSHIPS

1D.

PEESENT RESIDLACE PLANT rODIdEOCo, MT decodierS

SECTICE X

CHILDRES

YEAR

eIA TH

PLACE OF DIATH

LATIOMALITY

Ат. ДІятИ"

"SUBSEQUENT CITIRCNSMIPS MELO BY ART CHILO (Identify child end piro bio.

nont address)

SECTION XI

18- FUEL MAME

SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS

SECTION XII

IB. FULL MAME

SUESEOUEMT CITIZENSHIPS

FATHER

AS. PLACE OF BIRTH

88. VEAR OF BIRTH

AG. OCCUPATION

IR. MATIONALITY AT DINTM

B7- PRESENT RESIDENCE

MOTHER

SO. PLACE

AD. YEAR OF BIRTH

33. OCCUPATION

BIRTH

SA. PRESENT RESIDENCE

HATIOMALITT AT BIRTA

---

## Page 29

14-00000

-4=;

SECTIGA XIII

Puri anas

BROTHERS AND SISTERS

05

YEAR

B+0TH

PLACE OF BIRTH

MATICOALITO AT DIDI

2. B32 HASMORO CIOSES

"SUBSEQUEAT CATINESSES

AMY BROTHER

OR

SISTER (ISUALITY

brofbor.

live hio.

or her

SECTICH XIV

RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANCES AND CONTACTS

S. VANES DE AFLATIVES IN ANY GOVERABENT SERVICE INDICATE GAME OF GOVEERNERIS ANE POSITIONS MELD.

BE. RELATIVES.

CORRESPÜNOINTS

IN U.S. (ERplain relaciOnaRio)

ST. NATURALIZATITN OF

IN :U.5. ¡Gira nese, dose

ad.nusber.of..cereilicoro.praniea,...

ALIASES, TELECODES AND RELATIGNSMIP OF ALL. PERSONS-AYONY.TO-DE. CONNECTED. IN AXY MAY DITH ART INTELLIGLNCE

SERVICE.

SECTION XY

30.1158

CLOSE ASSOCIATES, IMOIVIDUALS OR GROUPS

PERSONAL

ASSOCIATIONS

SECTION XYT

MISCELLANEOUS

SICHATURE

'Et"

criti: 454

---

## Page 30

14-004000

EVI.

Thia

farostion.

CRYPTONYM

SECRET

PBO: 40-

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATCH DO.

Do

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICEN

or appropriare authority on the bania of pha beat-ores lablo do-

vilian;

un lose

requester

80 al1

approval

oble

viro

as 18d. Thereafrer the unual archod. lo

dorerost al cos

10-215.

in subjoce a handoriline, il possibla, and eus (2) cao.

porsible.

(2) copies.

"NA."

Il additional spoco required

2-

'PSEUDONYM

SECTION I

CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

INDICATE MOM, OMEM, SHIRE, ONY, AND DY DHOM SUBJECY MAS FIAST CONTACTED ON DEVILOPED.

made contact dith LITAMIi-l

on i1 oci 59 (1231-1554). Case Ofiler acos do the business

ni Subject as d

friend"

oi Gurtivo ARiOs j Begnes, no

presently Cubea ambas.udor in Brussels.

Beigion,

and fornerly

enntaci oi Cice

unlicer's unile Ahirs

Das in Mexico prior

t3e

connIsll or BATISTA.

Case Oificer

ade contact wich Subject 1a

occer to "ivel bin out re his allude tourd the castRo teeto.

StatiOo, TRiDUgO LIFEAT, mis abie to evaluate subject well berore

the approach

INDICATE OMETHER SUBJECT CORO DE TURMEO OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANHLO TO ANY RESPONSIDLE CASE CAPICKA POR

NANDLING.

1F 80. INDICATE TO MMON.

subject coulo be turneo ovex to any case officer with a speaking.

knowledge of spanish.

LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS

BEEN RHODA.

None

SUBJECT

THON NE KNOWS

OR MAS-KNORM, GIVE MAMES BY WHICH TART MAVE

1050a

SECRET

44•10)

---

## Page 31

14-001100

SECRET

SECTECHA 11.

suarer-s motivation. (De derailed.

NETIYATION ANO CONTROL

al possiblo cira pridence, Do nos

alock casaral

:.ind.id,

==;

Co0l0s

juis

Rowsben.

.d..

11074,

Pid Ent

oras canesiary tarin

i lion.

Horever.

reen contineud that. the CASTRO Dorind lus boor

Coo000.015 and CaSTRO, his forcel ¿lone,

infiltriloo

is done

nothing about i.

riO:!%.

.

/cia

INDICATE tHAI COnTROL.

'"F'ANY" PRISTS OVER'THE SUBJECT. 118 so coneros, or il lhare do a lact al roal

control

lane officer bag little control no no controd over subgees,

is acre ol i cooperative crichgement tortin

Subject is

ridding

¿NÉBBiSE POPRING in

its cosire

1060: s16 01 6A5700.

SECTINE III

1. CODER USED DU

TMEAD

COVER

LETINGS:

recting usually at LIleXIL-l's business office, where Case

8.

CERER USED DY SUBJECT IN OBTAIMING MIS INTORMASIDA AMD IN CONTACTING HIS INTORANTS.

Suojece,

: long tire frioco of otticinis of te cuban Enbassy,

Purely

Mistons

10 his driends relate tool probinas & outivities.

=.

MATICATE SERVICE NOR UNICH SUBECT THINKS NI (Bill DOrk) (18 HORKiR).

Sungect koois he 15 cooperating ion rapelur intelligence agency.

SECTIIN

INTELLIGENCE CORMECTIONS AND TRAIMING

ER*USIN SUBJECT'S ANONY PAST

SIDO: COMNECTIDN IS CADD OVERTiY.

OR PRESENT CONMICTICN MITH ANY OTMER INTELLIGEACE SEQVICE, INDICATE THE ANTENT

Subject is not koon to have corked for any intelligence service;

has service with the 26 01 July Movesunt

during the

period 1957-56, has calipped min veil for iateiligence nor.

IMDIVICUALS (AROntO, Palasiren, frirado) DHO ANON OF SUBJECT-S PRESCAT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

LITANIL- Knows that Subject is cooperating with PePRIME.

S.'IXFLAIM ANY TRASHIDE SUBJECT MAS

TIME OPERATIONS.

goBe.

Borever.

Subject ins involvec in several cincestiae

novenents while treisurer of the 26 of July lovement during

1957-66.

SECTION Y

COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

INICATE OTHRA FOREICA POVER SUBJECT DOULD BE MOST LIMELY TO COLLADORATE DITH BECAUSE OF MIS POROLOGY OR

ASSICIATIONS.

EXPLAIN.

Cubka Government.

2

SECRET

---

## Page 32

SECRET

SECTION VI

OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT

SUBIRES MAS DIEM USEO GR CONTACTÃO DEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN OMICM ME DAS CAGAGÃO AND THE IYPE OF INTOR.

MATION ME MAS FURHISHED.

Luring 1900 Subject Vcs

CiRE

oificet..oc

on one

rirt Aicos icuid

not do abie

oi Gustivo Acos contact viih cho

lu cine

a rie ilia

INDICATE MON AND FROM THOM

NATION.

subject

obicios his

information fron otinctali in the Cubin

Tmbaa5y i5 a Irlero.

INDICATE QUAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION NE FURMISNES.

subject is itaro that lee inforaction le maridos is seat to

Mirilnaton

DITAIL SUBJECT-S PROPOSED FI OR CI TIPE USE OR DUTIES.

Subject

w11:

¿ssist

in coordlauting enti casmo acrivitaos 1o

Mexico de purt of the ArtIl.

uperation.

DETAIL

SUBJECT'S

XA

SECTION.UIJ

PROPOSED LIAISON CR-OPERATIONAL: ACTIVITY

SUBJECT'S PROPOSTO LIALSON TIPE CONTAGI DA DEECATIONAL VEL:

A.. THERE SURJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIEN GOVERMMENT:

NA

B. MMERE SUBJECT IS AS OFFICIAL OF AMOTHER AGENCY OF THIS GOVERMMENTI

NA

SECTION VIII

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

EXPLAIN MATURE OF AGENCY

PERSONAER AMONA TO SUBJECT.

RELATIONSHIP DITH SUBJECT, I.I. TRAINEE: OPPOSITE MUNDERI RENERATIÓN. IT ANT. MEEMEY

subject is nou paid field agent of RUBARk.

SECRET

---

## Page 33

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION IX

QUALIFICATICAS FOR GTHER OPERATIONS

INDICATE

SPECIAL

AGILITIES, TALENTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED BY SUBJECT ENICH COULD CONCEIVABLY DE DI VALUE

F0A

OTHER OPERATIORS.

Subgero mes i printing plant and toccerere coule di nosensal!

provide printed satorial chinesunely.

SECTION X

COMOMITHENTS

1T 1S PROPOSED TO PAY SUBJECT A REGULAR SALARY.

INDICATE THE MEEXLY AMOUNT, IF PAYMENT TO DE MADE IN EXCHANGE

COMMODITIES.

SUBSIDY OR

OTHER METHDO, SPECITY AND GIVE DETAILS.

Subject s1ll be civen Enfis it eppropriüto tines during the year.

•PLUGANY AROMISES, OTHERMISE NOT COVERED HEREIN, MADE PO SUBJECT, (EXADOlE: CORDiSORDIO

lione

CTION XI

CE AND SECURITY

PROICATE THE FILLO AGENCIES ASO FIELO FILES MITH OMICH SUBJECT'S MAME HAS BEEN CHECKEO AND THE RESULTS.

Seutzon Muviina and leadicurters Mliod bore been caocked re

Subject

INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPNICAL INTORMATION FURNISNED AT SUBJECI.

A iinancini such by Dun ind Brrestroot ma 1150 run on Subject.

AADICATE

HETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL

APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL AP.

A. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINCO

FROVAL FOR SUBJECT'S USE MAS BEEM PREVIOUSLY ObTAINEO.

mistin !

aritationit designal

EVALUATE-SUGJECT'S CHARACILR, GELIADILITY NO SECURITY.

CITING EVIDENCE HIDE POSSIALE.

SUbJ

in a siberal

the Cuben

i July Movcaout 10 Mexico durlug 57-08. Neis oi

strong charucter d bignly

thought of by most members of the Cuban

in Mexico. He is an Indepenvent thinker d canaot be pusbed

around

&- EXPLAIN AMY SITUATION ORIINDI

TION IN THICH SUBJECT MAY MAVE BEEN INVOLVED HICH MUST DE EVALUATEO EROS A

CE/OPERATIONAL

SECURITY VIENPOINT.

The duse Oiler haS met LiTAMIL ou several

necigions duriag the past year at

his business office.

While it

the office, Ricardo VIDAL Domingleis, Cubun Chargeus bas beec

cuse Officer. üo the oiiice and on

InDoccasions

talked with Case

OffIcer.

LITAMIL-1 bolieves that VIDAL "ill not this ubour these

rantaris to Fumen 000/01:25

SECTION XII

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS

8. USE OF LIQUOR, DAUGS: GAMELINE, PARAMOUAS.

Subgect aut anuun to hive any abrious vices.

SECRET

---

## Page 34

14-00000

SECRET

ECTION

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

INDICATE

SUBJECT'S MODBIES OR INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIC. ETC.

Boxios cothusiast

SECTION IIY

GENERAL

INDICATE RHETHER SUBJECT'S LAMEUAGE ABILITIES AND

OF A COUT:• OR REGION

OTHER THAN MIS ONS.

EXPLAIN.

OTNER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS ME COULD PASS AS

Subject could pres as

¿ notive of any Latin Anuricin country.

INDICATE DUETHER

INFORMATION

CORRESPOSDENCE

OR OTHEN MIANS.

IN PRO PARTS I AND lI MAS OBTAIALO BY RESEARCH, CLANUESTINE ASSESSMERT. FILES.

Injosition Docained throud LiFPAT, naJ chec Station

filer.

Maican Governmeut 11leg, lun and Bronstreet, and Acaduarters.

OTMER THAN ROUTINE ACTION IS REQUIRED, IF AND MMEM TERMIMATION DE SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAIN.

63b,

(Al no

is.

SECTION ÄN

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS

GIVE FUEL CETAILS

P.E. MECOGAITION SIGNALS, SINI ANIRE COULO COMTACT BE MADEI NHAT EDMA FIDES COULD INDIVIDUAL

•MAKING. CCONTACT USED

SECTION IVI

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

Subject is over and operator of i print shop emplogind

approxinutely s0 employees

SIGNATURE OF APPROPAIATE SEMIOR OFFICER

SECRET

300 C220

---

## Page 35

Ch101 01 Staties, Bogota

OH! DALIND DESK

CAN DIGA LADLONG

UKRAREN

SHET

Chief, WesterD Bealsphera D1v1s10n

GICITRON-A

References:

A.

B.

HLST 1473

DIRECTOR 006731

Headquarters will preparo Pals I and It and

PorTerd centes to station Bogota. Reference B vas a

SURPATY Of PATTIDENT IDIOTEATION ITOS. GICITRONA'S

201 1110.

Distribution:

2 - 003/B050ta

GUS CHRICE TO

ULD 8: 10

HiA 10

cadet

50385744

8:8:7:19, 59

8: 03:::

..— Chrono

DSPATCH STRIDDE ANO ILENBER

DATE

10 APR 19/0

at lion

WH/3/C

OFFICI SYMBOL

C/WR/3/C

NOS HE WURST +1 1070

201-267288

DOENAING

OFFICER

Judy Hoopes

(mac 6 AprIl 1970% 9491

COOSCIMANHG

PAT

OFFICERS BARE

M. Parcel

Calvin M. Smyth

OFFICE STMBOL

DC/NR/3

DATE

15 53

USE PRIVIOUS iOMOA

NFQ.11-00

RELATING

ORCHES SEMATURE

Richard Conolly

DISPATCH

---

## Page 36

DISPATCH

Chief, Westera janisphere Division

COSATICATIOM

SECREI

PROCESSAG ACTION

MARE ROL BUSCHE

NO BEDDIE MOURID

CaY QUALFED DISK

CAM JUDGE IDDING

F80C8

Chief of Statico, Bogota

GICITRON- 4

RETORETiCES&

Ao HIBS- 2503, 16 March 1970

B. BCGOTA 3iE3, 20 January 1970.

lo The receipt of Heferance A Provislonal Uperational Approval for Subject

vas mich appreciated.

We were puzzled, bonier, by

the request for PER Parts I

and Il on GICI?ROl-l Bince all biographic and operational data on his with the

exception of references and DIRECTOR 006731 15 on record galy at cadquarters as

¿ar as ta are avaro unless texico üity has retalred their old file ca his.. Fara-

graph 3 of Roference B specifically requested that pertinent naterial frun Subject's

201 be forvarded to Boguta, but we have never received it.

2. Errol 6. Lerthroe, despite bas old frieriship with Sübject, has so present

justifiable reasor

to question hin regarding all the blo

graphic details reaulred for preparation of a full FRI Fart I. Nor could luthgoe

logically alcit fres Sabject the answers to susa PRA Pari II 1teng as "How, Wits,

where, why and by whon suaject was first contacied or developed" by kinock,

other case officors who have handled Subject or whom he knous of haa known...", and

Subject's proposed prosent operational use 1s detalled 11 Reference B, and

Headnuarters has the rest of the basic data necessary for preparation of both parts

of the PHQ. It 1s therefore suggested that this be dons at Beadquarters, vita

copies. bolig forbarded to Bogota for updating..

DISTRIBUTIONs

Or1Einal ani tro - Chief, HHID

CAS PRENT TO

BISPATCH SYBOL AZS SUSABER

HLBI-4475

CASUACATION

SECRET

DATE

25 March 1970

HAS FILE NUMBER

201-267298

---

## Page 37

14-00000

2UBE:13E22

nio

cud

N.22S

Chief of Station, Bogota

Chler, Hestern Besispherg Isvision

GICITROH-4

WIENTIA!

ReferenCe:

в. ВОСОТА 3483

B. DIRECTOR 06731

OB 6 Harch 1970 a PaA waS granted GICITRON-4

to normit his to fors & corporation

EITO! B. LYTAGOE.

No other operational use

1B author1ze:.

2. Please subalt a PRQ I and Il as soOn as possible.

Distribution:

.2 = COS/Bogota

CROSS REFIRENCE TO

Footh: 117 2as

c.i: 1.1

RI (201-267298)

- Chrono

DESPAILA TIMED, RED NUMER

HUBS 2503

CAMPAINS

SECBET

OFFICE

WH/3/C

OFFRE STALKOL

Judy

CAST

C/wH/ 3, C

16 Мат 70

DATE

17 MAR 1370

16 March 1970

I MOS FIS NEGGET

201-267298

CRIGIIATING

IMPIST

pes

SRZILATING

(mc 26 Max 701

Calvin M. Smyth

91.91

04:17. 5171301

C/WH/ 3

roger 53

USE PRETSONS EDITION.

* 34.60

DATI

16 Mor

SiR: 5821.16:

Alronso speraa

DISPATCH

---

## Page 38

MEMORANDUM FOR: CAle:,

wH/3/Col - C. Bayth

SECrET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVIL

201-267238

GICTEROE/C

REFERENCE: TAUT LENEFIGUN, DELES

22 JERUERTY 1970

1838

A Provisional Operacional Approval is granted fie tie use of tnis Sisjeet

set torch belo..

A Provisional Operetional Approval lasted hu CI Frale erects the sere

authorisy, on a terporary basis, for tre ise of an instridual as tre

granted in an Operational Approial ness curerilse specified i: Ci/04.

It is

based, Lorever, only e prelicicars

file resus and icestigation and 15 suo-

ject tr. a furtier final revie: when all iriestigatim is copleted.

SO for a corporation

bogote station

ErrOl R. INTiGOE

no other

operational use authorized.

tation so

13. MAR 1970

To process the Operational Approval, full information (corpleted PRQ

Parts I and il) must he subuitzed as soon as possible sui not later than sir

(6) montis fron this date. An Operationai Approval will follow den all

investigation is completes and upon tbe reseipt of saristactory pRa Parts I

and II.

Cancellation must be requested is use of Subject. bj interested Di-

visions ceases.

1S/ John B. Roward

CI/OPERATICAL APFROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISICE

roAr 125

APPROTAL

SECRET.

1011:

6 Farch 19T0

---

## Page 39

1400000

SECRET

4 Harch 1870

HNLORAHDUM

I FOB:

ATTANTION

SUBJICT

Counter Intelligence/Operatioaal

Approval and Support Group

IT. Jack Lally

: GICITROE-4 (201-257288)

A roview of the stall l doggies on subject roveale

no derogatory inforcation.

Joel H.

Beyes

#H/S/C

Distribution:

CI/OA

=.

(201-267298)

1

Meno Chrono

1 - Bxtra copy file

TH/3/C-JHBeyer: B2c/x9494 (4 March 70)

SECRET

---

## Page 40

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR IAFORHATION AND REVIEW

TO:

A February: 1370

449.

101-257222

=.=

155

WB/2/C - C. Robercon, Jr.

FROM: CHIEF, CI/CA

1S/ Jora B. Horard

110101 0H/4

IM ORDER

THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEY

THAT YOU FURMISH THIS OFFICE

THE INFOANATION CHECKED BELOW.

REQUEST FOR AFFAUVAL

IN. THIS CASE.

IT IS REZLESTED

REVILE INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

TRACES

PENIED DE

0p

AND

DIVISION

TRALES

PREHNICAL.

INTERROLATICH

0F

I'B- DOSSIER

CI/CA

COLLATIRNL COFDRMATION

ofF.

RIESOT AT CI/OA

CONCURDLOE REMO AT CLÍOA

DEPORT AT CI/CA

REFERENCE

ROTICE!

889

SECRET

120)

---

## Page 41

1:4-00000

SECRET

DATE

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REYIEW

TO:

9 February 1970

NO.

#1S&

$B, 3/C - C. Roberson,

Jr.

FROM: CHIEF; CI/Ci

15/ John E. Ecsard

201-257298

SUBJECT.

GICEEON/4

IN ORDER

T:AT FURTKER CONSIDERATION MAY DE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOI

THAT YOU FURNISH THIS: OFFICE...

APPROVAL

" THIS CASE.

THE

IT IS REQUESTED

¡AFORMATION CHECKED BELOW: OR REVIED: INFO-NATION-AS: INDICATED..

X.

TRACES

TRACES

ATIONAL

OF

GREES LIST

ANO

DIVISION

UNACLA

TECHNICAL

INTERROGATION

DOSEDER

TO CI/CA

COLLATERAL INFORMATION

RITY OFE.

sEc..0fF.

I SACURRENCE MENCO AT CO'DA

REVIEN

REPORT AT CO/OA

REVIEN OF ATTACHED REFINEACE

OTHERS (SAR RADArKA)

889

SECRET

---

## Page 42

T. SUBJECT TIPE NAME IN ROMAN

SECRET

TETTERS - SURMAME

201-2672

2. ALIASES. VARIANT SPELLING. DE NUMBERS. ETE.

"Manuelito"

3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

a CATZElSAR by Auruo, ortento, cuba

3. PRESLAP ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

Manager for Colombia of Galas y C18.9

Hexican headquartered Printing Fira,

Bogota, Colombia

OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

Printing

7.

PAST ACTIVITIES INCLUDING MILITARY

SERVICE

Owner and Manager of "Machado, S.A."

(Lithograph Plant)

Treasurer, 26th July Movement

REQUEST FOR GREEN LIST

NAME CHECK

DATE

CHIEF, FI/D

ORIGINATING- OFFICER'

АДНЕ

OFFICE DisraPerson,

60/3/67•

3B 2627

13. TYPE OF RESIST RECREAT

• FIRST TIME SUBMITTED

• ADDITIONAL DATA

(CHECK ONE)

ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

LOCATION

Talpan $710

Mosd

City.

Mesa

Mesdco City.

DATES

Nov 59

'59

8. OTHER: SIGMIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) - ADD EXTRA SAEETS NHES KEEDED

9. DESCRIPTION

(HEIGHT)

1E- SPOUSE (IF MiFE, GIVE MAIDEN SAME)

(HEIGHT)

(EYES)

(MAIR)

(RACE)

(OTHER)

11. OTHER MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY AND ASSOCIATES

Pablo MACHADO Llosa (Brother)

12- INFORMATION REQUIRED (DEFIME SPECIFICALLY.

NOT FULLY KEET REQUIREMENTS.) TERES, SUCH AS "DEROGATORY" MAY RESULT IN S' SEARCH THAT DCES

All Infornation

INSTRUCTIONS: SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D.

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

8-88:501 vor

SECRET

SEE CSI 10-1

---

## Page 43

SECRET

т0: 6. Roberson, fr.

FROM:

FI/D

÷÷B 1370

DATE

A. OXX SEE 2595IE0 DO SUBDICS NO FIO BIGGRANIE FILES.

B.

A MESCOAODUM IS ATTACHED MERETO:

C.

D.

E.

WITH THE LIMITEO IDEOTIFICATION POGVIDED IN THE FEGUEST, FI/D IS UNABLE TO

DETERRINE WHETHER THERE IS INFOSMATISO ABOUT TRE SUQUECT OR NOT.

/ FI/D MES NO PERTINENT IAFORMATICO DE LUBUECT, IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE

SUBJECT APPEARS AT A LATER DATE, 1Y WILL BE GEPESTED TO YOU AS IT BECOMES

AVAILABLE.

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REGUEST IS AFPARIATLY THE SURECI DF THE FOLLORING:

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUNJEET IS NO LONGIO IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, MITE THE FOLLOWING CARCELLATICE

SOTICE COMPLETED. SHOULD BE SEOT TO FIID.

REVIES YOUR FILE OF

THESE SADETS FREQUENTLY, ANO SEND TO FIVE THE SHEETS FOR PERSCHS THAT ADE NO

LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST IO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK. PLEASE DO MOT TIE UP FIÍD'S

•FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SELECHES FOR INFOPMATION THAT IS MOT REQUIRES.

TO:

FROM:

FI/D

DATE

MAME

OFFICE DESIGMATOR

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

---

## Page 44

14-00000

MESSAGE ROLA

ROUTINO AND/ OR INTUIS • SEEN DY

гна:.

3571

c.

sI.

Sayth

CNH/3/С

9194

SECRET

18

"ABLE SECRETARLAT DISSAROLATIOIS

INDEX

DESTROY

ASTURN TO

NO INDEX

FILE LA CS FRE NO.

RID COPY

FILE

dora ano tina lilod)

SECRET

Г

BOGOTA

31 18 022 J4470

INFO MEXICO CITY PANAMA CITY

CITE CELECTOR

(alise)

(roleranca suertos)

01

05731

7

7

GICITRON TECES

REF:

BOGOTA 3483 (IN 010310)*

1. SUBJECT

PARA 2 RET ASSIGNED GICITRON-4 AND

201-267298. HE WAS ORIGINAL MENBER 26TH OF JULY MOVEMENT

BUT. BECAME DISILLUSIONED WITH ADMINISTRATIVE INCOMPETENCE

OF CASTRO REGIME (HE INVESTED $50,000 IN REVOLUTION) AND

SOVISTIZATION DE CUBA, HE TURNED AGAINST CASTRO IN 1959

AND WITH OTHER, ANTI-CASTRO REVOLUTIONARIES SUPPLIED ARMS

It......

TO "CUBAN COUNTERREVOLUTIONARIES FROM HIS EXILE IN MEXICO.

WHILE IN MEXICO HE BAD BXCELLENT CONTACTS IN CUBAN DIPLOMAT-

IC CIRCLES AND WITH CUBAN UNITED NATION AND MEXICAN POLICE

OFFICIALS. HE WAS RATED RELIABLE SOURCE BY STATION MEXICO

1274/3/00

CITY. HE WAS GRANTED DA 6 JUNE 60 FOR ASSISTING IN COORDI-

NATION OF ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO AS PART OF

ALKAIL OPERATION. BY 1963, HOWEVER, HIS OPERATIONAL

CONTACTS HAD BECOME MARGINAL AND THEREAFTER HE WAS NOT

USED BY STATIOS.i THERE IS NO INFO AT HQS TO PRECLUDE YOUR

201-2682881

PROPOSED USE OF HIM. HE PROCESSING POA.

COORDINATINO. OFFIERS

IS COPY

CONTIN SANTO:

SECRET.

у наш битти

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

Hs17134N19

" REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITED.

coM Na."

---

## Page 45

• 6778

DATES

CABLE BECRETARIAT DISSERUMATIONI

16 3

9

ca AH '70

RID/EDLED COFF

lesanteezien

SECRET

TO ' PAGE THO

MISSAGE TOL

TOTAL COPIESI

SECRET

но токх

A010 41p470

FILE IN CE FUE NO D

— BRANCH

FiLE

,ve

(dare and line files)

CITE DIRECTOR

2. CONCUR IN REF PROPOSAL THAT IMPROVEMENT GICITRON

RECEPTION COULD IMPROVE PRODUCT AND, HENCE, WORTH PURSUING.

THOUGET OCCURS TO HQS THAT. GISOY-92, BEING AWARE GICITRON

OPERATIOY, WOULD PROBABLY SUSPECT PROPOSED LITHGOE

ROUTICE AND/OR INITIALS - BEAR ST

D

(alito)

006731

7

(alca)

7

GISOY-92 WITTING OF LYTHGOE ROLE? IF NOT, WOULD BE BE

PIQUED IF HE LATER LEARNED OF IT? WHAT REPERCUSSIONS

COULD THIS HAVE ON STATION/GISOY RELATIONS? WOULD APPRECIATE

YOUR CONTENTS.

3. FILE:

201-267298.

END OF MESSAGE:

* Ref proposed renting office space in building where Novosti

news agency is located so that Station could acquire clocar

LP for sonitoring "take" from present tech installation of

Novosti.

прями

WILLIAN Y

C/WHD

RELEASINO OFFREA

NH/1

4. Tuberdais

wH/2/P:Sicha

„брага

SB/X/WH ROLL VeL

ALFONSO SPERA"

TISD/AOB

ARNO OPTICTES

Collyer (by phone)

C/AH/3

SECREE

AUTMENTICANKO

REPRODUCT ' BY OLMER THAM THE ISSUING OFFICE •

rimsilisseig

ROHIBITED.

сотт на

---

## Page 46

r

SECRET

REQUEST FUR APPROVAL OR LU: STIGATIVE ACTION

handcares

1010)

PLEASE QUATLITE EACH SECTION dID APPROPAIATE SLAVE

IDATE

22 Jan 20

T0: X

CO/OPEPATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

FROM: S• Houersor,

CHIEF.

12:-3-C

3B 2027

INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISICA, CETICE OF SECURITY

CHIEF.

PiRSORREL SECURITY DIVISION.

GIFICE OF SEGLESTY

%. R-9÷94

SUBJECT:

PROJECT

1 Troo

0000)

C: -50: 33

CATATONIA, ESCUDDATA, ALA OR ALIASES

CO/DA PILE MO.

LITAHIL: (Poiner Crypt)

"lenurlito"

DO 201 FILE

NO.

SO FILE NO.

FICIENCE-

221-267298

TYPE

ACTION REQUESTED

: IOMAL APPROVAL

PHOPHIETARY APPROVAL

SECURITY APFROVAL

¡COVERT SECUAITO APPROVAL

CONTRACT TYPE •

SPECIFIE LARA OF USE

30:ota, Colombia

Si DULL DETAILE OF USE

CUTLE

there

/ SPICIAL INQUIAr (SO field interrogarion)

CONTRACT TYPE B

form a corioration

Station

Errol R.

LETTOCR

Bozota

A. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

D.S: GOPIAENIAY INTEREST MAT DE SMONA DURING INVESTIGATIONI

CIA INTEREST. MAT DE SHOON DURING INVESTIGATIOES

C. 18 BUDDECT ADARE OF U.S, GOVERAMEMS INTEREST IN MINI

'IS SUBJECT ANARE GE CRA INTEREST IN NIMI

INDICATE AT LINITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUEJECT.

P. SUEGEST "CONIA PRETEXTO TO BE USCO IN COMDUCTING PERSONAL IAVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

Gi DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE

SUBJECT

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE

SITTING

CIA. EXPLAIN FULLY

AGENCY OR GOYERAMENT INTERESTI

s.

PRO AND GREEN LIST

STATUS

PRO 1. OR COLITALENT, IN 828 COPIES ATTACHEO

PRO II. WILL BE FORWARDED

IN lID COPY ATTACHIO

i GRIEN LIST

ATTACHED. MOr

RI TRACES

RECORD

EILL FORTARO

NOD-DEROGATORY

7.

DIVISION TILLES

RECORD

DILL FORMARO

AUM-DEROGATORY

FIELD TAICES

NO

RECORD

но

DEROGATODY LAFO.

LIST SOURCES CHECKED KORatE*

NOT INITIATCO (EXPIRDOtiON)

FRATURE DI

•ILL FORUARD

DEROGATORY ATTACHED

¡SIGNIFICAN

11543

T72 11r

SECRET

YES

3.07 Рії 70

1v8s

DIDOCATCHY ATTAINED

ATTACHTE

---

## Page 47

14-01000

27 January 1065 traveled iron Moxico City to Venezucia

on & tourist visa.

14 April 196% travelled from Cuba to Mexico on Ppt #626,

file # 532/59 issued 19 January 1959. The rassport was

Consul,

extended 14 April 1964 for 3 years by the Cuban Erkkket.

Mexico City•

---

## Page 48

14-1000

wH/ 3/C

воС. SYMчOL & ND.

SECRET

cahen Filled loy

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUTENT IDENTIFIEATION

DATE OF DOC.

FILE CLASSIFICATION GE

BECORD COPY

DOR: SUBJECT

SOURCE INFORMATION

SOWNCE CRYPTONTA

DATE OF INFO.

EVALUATION

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Aleo ciro dor.

dis

No., are. - Trapplicabla)

791956476

KANALS ILOSE, FAMEEL

308-267298

на/3/с

TRES IS A ROGTSICIZS CI/CA FENCER CH. TaS SUBJECT

OP THIS 201 -

19 46 200.

ABSTRACT FILE SLIP. DE29

Indicate The Subject, Project Or

201 File No. In Which This

Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF 201 (LON8.

Firer:

Middle)

201-

26 72

98

FORM

8-68

867

SECRET

17.46)

a dest line better eter;

---

## Page 49

MACHADD, MANUEL

050-003-138/03

SFX M DDS 7

+ 49A-33137

IT JAY

CIT?

850-0-12784

arc ?

p?.

PE CURAY GIFANGENT HOOK ON MEXICAN PHASE OF

THE PEVOLUTIUN

FIO I%DEE ONLY

UFG

450

WH/G06 Cards

2o gan 1970

---

## Page 50

всего:

a-smo

1: (8x0-261296)

729001

ae4..7

"io!s.

Рerl..?.

to-la PS, " far oote 1

:.89a 5a92018 ij ion itati

1.r05

"Lroze?

дата па

:0.150

1058

567 1'V Liraso, 5acae

pal B3a],

hase

PeIm:

ia!ar

iaseo mira?.

посія

1a, Lot, 8ta1 Lebia 20 M4274

---

## Page 51

CABLE SEGRETARIAT DESENIRATION

PRASOSWUNET

NOVANCE COR

LAURS

FER.

¡ACTION UNST

•ACTION MO

- LASSIFIED MESSiGE

TOTAL COPIES 21-

SE..AFT

ба лілд. 1

(When: illoo In)

като

JELOTTES

REPRODUCTION DE ¡MIS COPY PROMIBITRO

INDEX.

O to

О но

CLATOMY TO CS ARE NO.

- 3

LASP TO CO FREMO. -

O MIERO J RETURN TO

FILE, VR

BIAN CL, clors, Esz, TS06

LOUTINO ANDIDA INITIALL

1

BRANCH.

SE CRE I 26ITOSZ JAN TO CITE MEXICO CITY 2329) (PRALLETT ACIING).

MESS

BOGOTA INFO DIRECTOR, PAMAMA CITY

GICITRON TECKS

26 JAH INO 13404

REFS BOGOTA 3483 (U 010310) -

1: NO DATA MEXICO CITY STATION WHICK

MILITATES AGAINST

USING MACHADO PER PARA 2, REF.

2. FILE: 281-267298.

SECRET

23/159

ES COPY

SECRET

WH/3

201-267298

26 JANUYO

---

## Page 52

SECRET

6

Go то

ATo.

- 3

DIDEN

О но

CLARINT TO CA FRE MO..

X-RED TO CO TRIMO. —

I

DEST ONE

.PER...

JAHE

спок м

482

BRANCH.

PILE, IR RAN CI alOeS CIRA EI2 ISE COSO

SECRE I 282ZASZ JAN 78 CITE BOGOTA 3483

Foot

DIRECTOR, MEXICO CITY INFO: PANAMA CITY

GICITRON TECHS

Zở JAM IN 0 1 03 1 0

STATION HAS LEARNED OF SPACE BEddING AvAILABLE

IN 61 TRON TARGET BUILDING WHICH SHOULD IMPROVE RECEPTION

AND THEREFORE TAKE CONSIDERABLY. FOR VARIETY

REASONS BELIEVE ERRCL R. LYTHGOE (FOR MEXI: FORMERLY

•LITAINT -1>

HE SAID HE

HAD ALREADY FORMED ONE FOR TAX PURPOSES IN CONJUNCTION WITH

201-26:298

AMANUEL MACHADO LLOSA, CUBAN MANAGER FOR COLOMBIA OF

GALAS Y CIA., MEXICAR-HEADQUARTERED PRINTING FIRM.

RACHADO IS LONG-TIME FRIEND OF LYTHGOE WHO PERFORMED

OPS TASKS FOR RUROCK IN MEXICO AND IS AWARE OF LYTHGOE'S

OPERATIONAL HISTORY.

"Ro: IF THERE NO DATA HEADQUARIERS OF MEXICO WHICH

MILITATES AGAINST USING MACHADO OPERATIONALLY REQUEST

HEADQUARTERS OBTAIN CLEARANCE OF PRIORITY BASIS TO PROVIDE

LYTHGOE'S

ALTHOUGK HE NOTAVO

- BE INVOLVED DIRECILY IN OPERATING: IT MUST BE EXPECTED THAI,

CS. CoPY

SECRET

AN NEE

201-267298

120 JAN 10

---

## Page 53

ROMAKEY COO

SECRET

(When Filled In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBI

Д мо

хаке то со трена . :

• PLE RO O RETURN TO :

BRANCH

ACTION LOST

FILE, VR

•ACTON Ma

PAGE TWO CITE BOGOTA 3483 SECRET

CUBABS BEING CUBANS, HE WILL BE MORE THAN GENERALLY

AWARE OF WHAT IS GOING ON.

ADVISE SOONEST IF ANY HINDRANCE TO USING MACHADO SINCE MUST

MOVE FAST TO SECURE THE SPACE.

3.

PLEASE FORWARD PETINENT MATERIALS FROM

MACHADO 201, CRYPTONYM AND 2D1 NUMBER.

A. NO: INDEX. FILE MACHADO 201.

SECRET

A 2 PORTION ASSLED - SCIEO SEVICED

F151.N008

08

---

## Page 54

14-00000-

TALES

DFOB.

COCUPATION:

BROCHARA

PRO PART I ECTIVALENT

TaCHDO Lisa, Inuel

12 Decenber 1913, Auras, Criente, Cuba

Manager for Colombia of Galas ¿ Cla., Yerican-

Heudquarted Frintire Firm 1n Bogota, Colombia

Cuban

Fablo MACHDO Liosa

...,то?..,,1116110,10,111! 11.1. 1. - Паліні:

---

## Page 55

TO:

FROM:

TYPE

SECRET

NOTE: SLE INSTRUCTIONS CA RIVERSE SIDE TYPE ON PRINT

201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

RID/201 Section

Hase

Roon GA-20 • Tibe Address

OFFICE

DAN -6

ROOM

CATE

P HOME

TRUE MAME

(LANT)

(Firas)

(Middlo)

5. 298 но.

(2008)

MANE VARIAMTS AND TELECODES (ReE InaPruCiOne, iReo 6)

(Fires)

(Middlo)

TUBE ADDRESS

TES

TYPE.

ACTION

FILE

RESTRICTEO

• PERMANENT

CHARGE

SEX. FI'&.

DATE OF EIRTH

11|D. COUNTRY OF

BIRTM

BI1. CITAIENSNIP

12. OCCUPATION (clear eeze)

ORGANIZATION OR INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION

ID: DOCUMENT SYNDOL a NUMBER

DATE

117. COMMENTS (Rost for Index carde)

10. CITY/TEN» О ВІДТИ

OCC. CODE :S. SEL

87

=1

O1 CODE

RESIDENCE

1B. COUMTRY OF LOCATION

28.

IMFORMATION ADDRISSEES

82.

CRYPTONYM

28. SIGNATURE OF REQUE

18L01001

CODE

19. ACTION DESK

CODE

20. SECONDARY DESE

1

CODE

MAND CARRY OR FORWARD BY TUBE IF TRUE NAME APPEARS ABOVE.

201 во.

1225/0114

SECRET

17r.e.1

---

## Page 56

Ext.

3124

TO

RID/INDEE

REQUESTER

RIDIPILES

REQUESTER

TUBE

0T-g

DT.8

RID/AMALTSIS

G8-9

R 1D/201

FOOM

322027

TUBE 854

LUMALON

REQuEsT

DATE

DID CONTROL 4S.

LISTE

INITIALS

21-1-20 pr

192an 10

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

JAN 21

3 07 PH '70

RIDIINDEX

SUBJECT TE BE CHECKED

GIVEN MAMES

MACHADO LIOSA, MANUEL

201 'NO. 1F KNOWN

AHA, ALIASES

DATE OF

BIRTH

PLACE OF

BIRTH

ОТНЕЯ

affiliationa.

IDENTIFVING DATA /OCCUpaIion.CP erebership.1.5.

CURSU MAILER FOR COLOMISAAON

SALASY CIA, MERICAN HAS PRUNTING

FIRMA.

CATIZENSHIP

NO PERTIMENT IDENTITIADLE INFORMATION

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK.

CONDIENTS

RESIDENCE

BOGOTA, COLOMBIA

SARD MEFIRENCES ATTACHED

IESTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IT 'ALL CASES

Use gummed. label; type or print all

201 CONSOLIDATION

1. Return this form with the card repro-

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

ductions, also return pertinent documents,

draw: a green

diagonal line across

aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on

Itews you do not want.

the subject exists.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

caras to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (sars with

green D and note reason

for destruction)

2. For each document to be included in tbe

consolidation (1.e., copy or cross referense

to be placed in the

201 f1le),

green D the

corresponding card and checis (a) or (b)

below:

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative then retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(a)

(b) corrections and additions, Inclu-

Consolidate into

201-

ding Infinity symbol os when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

(b)

BESTRICTION

{8f

any)

Open 201 file on subject.

STIGNES™

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS ard CIG

are in RID, AID, and those that meet

indexing criteria in CSBB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Index.

IP you

belleve there could be additional in-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

CTHER INTERI

DESKS OR STATIONS

NO

DESA

Rote 2.

Information concerning foreign

public personalities (erseot mili-

tary) may be available is BR/OCR

x?937.

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECOROS OFFICER

T 362 T3

SECRET

---

## Page 57

14-00000

A MEXICO

O-WER AND MANGER OF

/LITHOGRAPH PLE T/:

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY.

SMACHIDO,

77971

IN 45700°

?! Ida, 38

Pera 18 Jun 48

98F 64,58

FrOZI CIA

Pos Stato

310603

Al-Dolatog

(487302359

Beat

This

CAPS

FILED IN

Do 1110 a

16164

5T100) costals

81010091

0:310

---

## Page 58

4-00000;

TITy

FFS0

OECUPATIOY

THiS

CALO

FiLES IN

MAiN

INDEX

•? 59.6.

•"1.

i'= pian mortai ilians (159f-09

1h.: 11

8.9

ALE

0131:8

REF HBB - 1000, 12 MAY 69

201585246181

TYPE NAME-TI,j

DEE CODE DIPT

OI CODE ?

0200 10061HBBMBROPL

6906111271

061-004117

OPL

-00808 EDI

O9 JUN 60

P 2

013:23

-мы...

÷ 1i

---

## Page 59

STUssoRs:

789

ndie941

AZORES

Mals card tilod 11

USA

11

i?.

Madr 12-X-2-Pts-10

FOLdETH

REFEREN

207

TH'S CARD ED

SIZICUIN MAN HEX

SECRETI

---

## Page 60

Hertes+1 155221150 Ascues

Üa?!

DUB 7

CIT VENEZUELA

RES: MEXICO

: 3

wo r

CIT VENEZUELA

RES: MEXICO

101811

5D

09 SEP. 52

SER: 161

050-004-012

-027K

SER, 245|

SECRET

---

## Page 61

14-00000

MACHADO, MANUEL

019-009-0008

HEX1-02164

14 AUG 58

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY IM MEXICO.

913.20

T2 8-6207

315:22

---

## Page 62

classier

todd Md.

J-RET TO

FILE n0.

PILE BIOD

DESTROY

O sie.

FROM

MEXI

CIL

NH 8

"CLASSICIES MESSAFE

SECRET I

PROSES TIT HOTICITO

21

Totte

ADIANCE

BRID COPY

Dissure Diore Ure

SECRET 092228Z

DIR INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 3735

Ale

9 JUN 658 86780

PBRUMEN LITAMIL

1. O LITAMIL.

201ITAMIL 1

- SUMITTED FLWG NAMES IN RESPONSE SPOTTING RQM. (A)

ING. MIGUEL L. PALMER, FORMER CHIEF FERROCARRILES OCCIDENTALES DE

• CUBA WHO WORKED FOR MANOLO RAY IN SABOTAGING CUBAN RR SYSTEM UNDER

BATISTA (B) LUIS ARGIBAY, BORN C. 1932, CURRENTLY IN TOUCH WITH

CURBELO OF CUBAN EMB IN ATTEMPT OBTAIN EXIT VISAS FOR ARGIBAY:

FAMILY. (C) RAUL VIANELLO GARCIA, FORMER CUBAN CONSUL GENL MEXI.

• 20 REGUEST TRACES ON ALL THREE WHO MOW MEXI. VIANELLO INTENDS PROCEED

U.SO MONENTARILY TO JOIN FRIEND DR. RODRIGO BUSTAMANTE AT V.A.

HOSPITAL, WOOD, WISCONSIN (SIC• VIANELLO HAS NOT DEBRIEFED BY

LICOHETS. L-3 SUGGESTS USE HIS TRUE NAME CIDEN) AS BONA FIDES

IN EVENT FOLLOWUP ON VIANELLO.

SECRET

CFN

SECKET

FILE iN 301-267298

Mages at

---

## Page 63

14-00000

SECRET

(ora filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMEST

COCLUEPT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE PO.

MACHADO LLOSAS, MANC

DISPATCH OR SOVACE DOC.

SYMBOL

NO.

?. SOURCE CAPTORTO @ DATE OF INFO.

ANALYST

&. DATE PROCESSED

10.

DISSEMINATED IN

ITT. DATE

DATE

EVALUATION

82.

CROSS RIFERDID TO THIS FILE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITICH

13.

TRANSFERRED TO

DI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATiON

Mosy Therein

WH/SM

THERE IS-A RESTZICTED CI/OS FOLDER OF THE SUBJAC.:

OF THIS 201 HOLD UNDER C7

80638

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

д - 37

867

SECRET

201-262298

17-081

---

## Page 64

CLASSITY TO

H-REO TO

FILE NO.

PUR AI0D

DESTROr sIG.

FAOU

mexico cy

ACTION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNT: NOTIFICO

T9TAL COPIL

2/

EUCTICE PROMIGITEO

TIME

O RID COPY

D....

SECRET 292229Z

•DIR INFO WAIT CITE MEX: 37.

ACTIONI

FBRUMEN LITANIL

REF

MEXI 3736

(867F0)

IDEN:

SECRET

CFN

36782

... ted 1... 110%..

201-267298

---

## Page 65

SUBJECT

SECRET

(men Filled In;

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOOMENT

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

BLYST

DATE PRECISSEO

CROSS BATEGIRD TO THIS

FILE NO.

DISPATCH OR

SOURCE DOC, STMODI

no..

T. SOURCE CRYPTOMYNO. DATE OF INTE

10. DISSIMINATED

11. DatE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

TRANSTERRED TO

RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

A. DATE

EVALUATION

HACHADO LLOSAS, MANUEL

201-267248

SEX M

DOB ?

?

019-005-001

UFGA-21693814

01 JUN 65

P35

OCC

BELIEVED IDEN/H MACHADO MANUEL WHO WAS CONTACT

OF SUBJ. OF 201-754938.

6506161148

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO:

201

2671

299

857 •0.

SECRET

17°

---

## Page 66

SECRET

REQUEST FOR CANCELLATION

FROM:

(Division)

unod)

1z00/3

(cano offdcors

• (RIranaio0)

Restoa.

6226

ТО:

CHIEF, CI/OA

SUBJECY'S SAMI (PaondE.

CISOA NO.

S-89638

DATE OF DIBTH

- 12 Doc 1973

PEASONISI DOR CANCELLATICO

DATE

23 August 1963

IP SUBTE

2- 58

937

SIGNATURE

LUS-CAPACITY. A NET RAQUEST FOR NOF

SECRET

TED TO CI/CA

i: 1

хо 1 во.

201-267228:

PLACE OF BIRTH

PROJECT

TCa0:.

AGENT'S

SERVICE RECORD

bocase narginal

ele prouste

---

## Page 67

DISPATCH

Cutefe iTa

CLASSIFICATION. =

SECRET

TO

DOO

FROM

PROCESSING ACTION

MARNED SUA SADEXING

I EAT BURO

ONLY QUALTIED DESA

CAN NOTE UNDOULD

MICROTEN

-201-202134

Chief of Station, ¿exico Gity

ICTION RIQUIRED. REVERDiCES

ambumber 1-21-267248

ACTION: FYI

ROMERENCES: A. REAd 11727

B. H45 11729

Agent Service Record on Subjects are enclosed as requested in tha

References.

Stilland Custo

Attachrent:

As stated above

Distribution:

3 = C/ID /att

3 - FIles

MICROFILMED

AUG 1 6 1963

Doc. micro. SEr

cRoss

D-201-3815423

DESPATCH STRADOR ANO POUREBER

MIA: 21924

CASSICATION

SECRET

DATE

20-267278

9 August 1963

MQ3 FRE NUMBER

---

## Page 68

SECRET

AGAT SERVICE RECORD

IP

1.: Agent Cryptonym: LITAHIL - 1

..2. Project:

• LITAMIL

3. Agent Recrulted By: Clydo K. SHROCK

Date: 6 Not. 1959

4. Capacity In Which Agent Served:

Spotter, Inio Cuban edlas, Cuban Officials,

penetration 26 July moverent.

S. Rate of Pay:

Lone. Was given $10,000.001N 28 a Loan, #1ll probuols

• 6. Other Coumitments:

never be repaid.

L'one.

7. Agent Dismissed By;

hot disnissed, but not

recontacted alter SITTOCK's departure.

8. Reason for Dismissal:

Eecame marginal.

Date:

AL: 1 $ 1983

9o Security Risks:

lione.

10. Is the Agent Recoumended for Reuse: Yes, depenting on circunstances.

11. Manner of Dismissal: lio recontact made after SiRIOCK's doparture.

12. Letter of Termination Signed: Ho

13. Cost of Termination:

14. Station Case Officer: jerrence P. MCGi

so 5 ator 12111 Te

(Siganture in Pseudonya

15. Chief of Station:

Wellard C. CURTIS

(Signature in Pseydony»

SECRET

Op.

at HMARA - 21924

201-267298

---

## Page 69

14-00000

130

Chief of Btation, Mexico City

¡ PASTES FOR INDEXINE

DZI QUALIND DESE

KISSEN

: Chiefe VH D1015100

PERUURN/LITAKIL]

ACTEA RIQUETLO. REJLRUNOLS

Headquarters Illes reveal no Station. contact ulth LITAlill..

since October 1962. It 1s requested that the statioa report on

1ts cirrent relatlonship with LITAHill. Il this agent has beea

torainated, please subalt an Agent Service Record.

OF DISPAFCH

So wil

Distribution:

Cal - COS, Hexico City

CROSS RITEPENCE TO

DISPATOM SANEOL AND NUMBER

OFFICE

SECRET

201-267298

DATE

•11 JUL 1965

s rsa $989

301-26298

OFFICER

0H/3/Mexico/C=

Busitds: dd

COOROINATING

EAT.

5940

OFFICE SONERA

DATE

OFT CER'S NAME

FOR

1-03

PID/AISIN

FEDITS

tHen

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

OFfICE 5: 655

C/AHED

RELE45.G

CIRCHES

DATE

640)

K1ng

DISPATCH

---

## Page 70

DATE

TO

FROM&

ACTION!

INFO

081

17 OCT 62

DIRECTOR

MEXICO .CITY

C/ TFW 5

DDP,

ADDP, C/500 3, C/CI, C/F1. 2, C/us 5, s/c 2*

CLASSIEO MESSAGE DE LIT

ROUTING

SECRET

init

OCT 17 0503Z 62

ROUTINE

IN 40768

C/S CCIMENT: •DISSEMINATION APPLICRELE TO RYZAT

CAELES..

BIR GUAT INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 2221

GROSE/LITAMIL

RET MEXI 2222

(a 40773)

1O ON 16 OCT 62, LITAMIL-2 REPORTED ATE PRO-UILDAD "CLANDESTINE UNIT"

NIGHT 15 OCT CONPOSED FOL: LITAMIL-I, LITAMIL 2, LITAMIL-3,

LITAMI[-5, BORACIO WIESZESUX GUERRERO, JOSE MANUEL LOPEZ ALFONSO,

TULIO PRIETO RUIZ, FERNANDO OROZCO, AND DIO ALFREDO FERRERO

2. AT NTG LOPEZ TOLD GROUP THAT COL, ENRIQUE PERALTA AZUPDIA,

GUAT MINDEF, WHO CAME MEXI OFFICIAL VISST SEPT 62, MADE CONTACT

LOPEZ AND OFFERED ARMS, AMBO AND SLOWY VESSEL.

• PERALTA LONGTIME

FRIEND LOPEZ. LOPEZ SAID THAT COURIER' PERALTA"ARRIVED KEXT" FEW

DAYS AGO AND SAID PERALTA OFFER STILL STANDS BUT THAT DIRECT CONTACT

NUST BE MADE WITH PERALTA GUAT. GROUP CHOSE LITAMIL-2 OR LITAMIL-3

AS MOST LIKELY PUC COURIERS VIËW FORMER'S BUSINESS INTEREST GUAT AND

LATTER'S DIP CONTACIS. ACCORDING LOPEZ CONTACT WITH PERALTA SHOULD

BE MADÉ BEFORE END OCT. PUC PLANS COLLECT FUNDS SEND COURIER GUAT

SOONEST. WILL ADVISE. LOPEZ DID NOT IDENTITY PERALIA COURIER.

3. 1-21

REPORTED 16 OCT HE GAINING MORE CONFIDENCE WIESZESUK.

DOES GÜAT HAVE ANY INFO RE PARA 2?

48

ABOVE NOT BEING DISSEMINATED VIEW OPS INTEREST.

(END OF MESSAGE)

I EXCLUDED FROM AUTO-

SECRET

MATIC COHIGRADING

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION: BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na.

---

## Page 71

14-000,00

DATE

024

7 SEP 62

DIRECTOR

TO

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/TFW 5

INFO: DOP, ADOP, C/C1, C/FI 2, CAH 5, S/C 2°

ROUTING

SECRET WO

SEP B 0278Z 62

ROUTINE

Л

17 18812

DIR INFO WAVE SJAN CITE MEXI 1889

GYROSE/AMLAW-S/LITAMIL 1

BET NO MEXI 1614(68-46153)

B6 DIR 28483(007635557818

1O ON 5 SEPT 62, AMLAW-I CALLED LITAMIL-1 AND ARRANGED MIG

APARTMENT RAMON SINOBAS AT 1888 THAT EVENING.

20. AM-I TOLD LOS ME FELT HAD OBLIGATION MAKE CONTACT AS PROMISED

PRIOR DEPARTURE FOR HAVA RE POSSIBLE DISCUSSIONS MEXI, SAID UPON

ARRIVAL HAVA SAW RAUL ROA AND FIDEL CASTRO-FIRST TWO DAYS THEN.

DISCUSSED SUBJ MATTER OF INTEREST L-L. HE DID NOT SAY WITH WHOM HE

TALKED. RE MATTER. AM-S SAID THAT CUBAN GOV'T IN VIEU THREATS AND

AGRESSIVE ACTION INCLUDING SHELLING CUBAN COAST COULD NOT CONSIDER

"TALKS" IN MEXI. ANY "TALKS" HOULD DEPEND ON THE U.SO CLEAR DEMON

STRATIÓN THAT IT REALLY INTERESTED IN "TALKS", THAT IS, THAT

UOS. STOP ITS AGRESSIVE

ACTIONS AND PROVE INTERESTED PEACETUL APPROACH PROBLEMS. HE ADDED

THAT THEY IN CUBA FELT-THAT "TALKS" MEXI MERELY STALL FOR TIME

StIE 193 M

SECREI

Itishi 11a

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

201-261298

Copy Na.

---

## Page 72

CLASSIFIEU MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

DATE

TO

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO :

PAGE 2

MEXI 1889 IN 18812

WHILE U.S• PLANNED FURTHER AGRESSION. AM-1 THEN TOLD LOL HE NOT.

ABLE UNDERSTAND DUALITY U.SO FOREIGN POLICY, THAT IS, WHILE L-1 MEXI

TRYING ARRANGE "TALKS" WITH ROS. REP OTHER AGENCIES PLANNING AGRESSION.

L-1 TOLD AM-1 HE DID NOT KNOW REASON THIS, IF TRUE, BUT SUPPOSED

DIFFERENT GROUPS INTERESTED CERTAIN ASPECTS PROBLEM AND THAT

CAUSING DUALITY.

30 AM-I ASKED LO! WHY HE CONSIDERED VULNERABLE "DEFECTION".

L-1 TOLD HIM THAT ALL EXILES SURPRISED SEE HIM REMAIN WITH REGIME

WHICH • THAY FELT NOT TO HIS TASTE. AM-S SAID THAT WHILE HE HAVA PRESS

RELEASE FROM STOCKHOLM.

REPORTED AM-1 HAD TAKEN ASYLUM.

40

LOJ. SAID THAT AM-L VERY MUCH ALARMED SITUATION, CONVINCED

U.So PLANNING AGGRESSIONe TOLD LO1 HE PLANNED BREAK NEHS TO PRESS

RE PLANNED AGRESSION THO OR THREE DAYS. (COMMENTS AM-1 STATEMENTS

APPEARED PRESS MORNING 6 SEPTI. DOOR "LEFT OPEN TURTHER CONTACT

IF FELT CONVENIENT.

END OF MESSAGE

ES COMENT: "DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYEAT CABLES.

*BRE RECRUITING SUBJ.

895864-227.159991

SECREI

5032:7 8

Sanitate

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Ma

---

## Page 73

1400000

10510

1: 14830

Mal 460!

wer the tres tod essser

CARCA DUENEO TO, 84B'5 SECHSTAGE CROEE RÃOL RETURE CALLO MALS OLa

Core 220G CiRCa Do CorhrL629d A08 303 022600220

i;

....

tie concie coder tag

PROTER NORDO CRONOS ROLORER MODE DISTICULT 6S 6213E1

Ta07 CaoT pasà code Chuand 2926206 109. 26 71267

pen

---

## Page 74

:122

IN OUR LOG DENDUSTRATE HESIRE DENGUES PRESCRAL SITUATICE CITES

JOLIEVES GARG ECTRO LE MADLED LOCKLY CH CLNDESTENE 2R51S0

"* ME DATE SIGURE ACTION DEPRIDS TERKS NING WHO CLING ARTURE

..

HEY DENELORRSIES RE MAN TEARED COLORET 493!

?O 0 M6615

'T:

luca "repair stat"

ASANCCUCTION RU CH

---

## Page 75

14-00000 *

3

......:1111

ete EilNie

2.152 120 d2 991 Dr1 51E1

mid tata

t"aia.11:

inn7 eTADIsG d00r16.2.611 196G0 Gu7n Aa CLiS Eeg06H16: 1091001 1 7413

W.t2i: : :910:: 4871,5°

??

d Men tondED treRttad

•2rà Ma. o PEaCAod GEnEl iC3 CORTADE LTip LddtSoS 87 92078-1061

calen dó cooe touGortd Gid G de druld Gralegae de talt

Eadey wiei conbmrcro totintnsd cirttt träd doetd drrrd

euadentra dcliredo aao de gade dad lediddde dadt di dnrid didhdberit

1dlo; iuad ten a covos cacry poarthtliy ward la toiod decienzy 109111101

Magmnräs dilaae Celãl Em dnrtalrlod d Cern dlao drò ilatariojodo aüg

uatio dotelozant eo iaiinae

Ta AAreh A0e tadar 10o Ca30%rdunD 2e2i

..átio.::.

ri aanecerdaee ccangiei

wataiitin

dieini dle "itog ianei:

Ptcta

0440 212

i ina

---

## Page 76

14-00000

EDWARD MARELIUS K35

C/TFW/FI

EXT.

:612

DAJE

1535

6 Arguas 1962

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SE C

RET

_RYBAT

10

MEXICO CITY IMWAVE

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF,

8/TFW

Fyl

D40:

@talley f

DDY, IDDY, C/CI, C/F1 2, C/WH5, S/C 2

TO

MEX

BHO

RYBAI GYROSE LITANIL-I

WAVE

CASTIZED

nor ESY 43-43

REF: A. MEXI 1614 (IN 40150)

B.. HMMA-19172, 8 JUNE 1962

POUTING

5

19052

SHE-CELL

ATISED

ROUTINE

067 83555-

FyTú3555

28484 28483

28483

1: SUBJECT REF A ASSIGNED CRYPTONYMN AMLAW -1.

2.: CONCUR STATION OPINION REASONS AVLAW-I INTEREST

FURTHER MEETS AND DESIRE FOLLOW UP BY INTRODUCTION KUBARIS

STAFFER AT APPROPRIATE TIME. APPEARS/ ROM WHAT WE KNOW OF

A-I AND INTIMATIONS REF B, HE MORE INTERESTED IN HONEST BROKER

ROLE THAN DEFECTION OR ANY OTHER TYPE ROLE'IN PLACE. FEEL

THEREFORE WE SHLD APPROACH HIM WITH THIS IN MIND AND PLAY

HIM FOR INTEL, PREPARED HOWEVER TO PUT HIM ON PAYROLL OR

CATCH HIM IF HE DROPS.

3. ABOVE RAISES PROBLEM OF HANDLING (1) VIS A VIS EMB AND

ODACID AND (2) SELECTION APPROPRIATE STAFFER, 1. E..

SUFFICIENTLY SENIOR SPANISH SPEAKER PREFERABLY, WE ASSUME;

FROM OUTSIDE MEXI, WHO AVAILABLE FOR PERIODIC MEETINGS.

COORDINATING ORFICIES

CONT.

ASING OFFICER

SECR

ET

RYBAT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na..

201.261298

---

## Page 77

14-00000

EDWARD MARELIUS: 4K

UN:: C/TFW/FI

=EXT : 6172

DAIE :

a Auguat 1962

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

_RYBAT

$ 63

ROUTING

2

10-,

5

6

8 the 38

FROM:

MEXICO CITY IMWAVE

DIRECTOR.

COtE:

PAGE TWO

INFO :

1O

INFO

CITE DER

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 63555

28483

WLD HAVE RENARD AVAILABLE THIS PURPOSE IN ABOUT A MONTH.

REQUEST CURTIS COMMENTS ON ALL ABOVE. ESP ODACID/EMB ANGLE.

4. MEANWHILE, SUGGEST LITAMIL-I RECONTACT A-I PRIOR

LATTER'S DEPARTURE FOR ANOTHER GENERAL TALK ALONG LINES

STATION SUGGESTS WITH ADDED FILLIP THAT HE ABLE GUARANTEE

CHAT WITH ODYOKE OFFICIAL ON A -1 OSTENSIBLE TERMS AFTER

PBRUMEN TRIP,

5. IF IT TURNS OUT THERE IS MORE BEHIND A -I CALL THAN

WE HAVE READ INTO IT, HQS PREPARED AND STATION AUTHORIZED

GO ALL OUT MAKE A DEAL WITH HIM.

1: 057

(END OF MESSAGE)

phal ham

TFW/SA

AK

WH3/MEX

soli

COOIDINATIMO

OFFICERS

SE C

R. E:T

• RYBAT.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

luth

OFFICER

Copy No

---

## Page 78

DATE :

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRETA

ROUTING

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO

4 AUG 62

DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

C/TEN 5 (AR MULLOY TEH NOTIFIED & COPY SLOTTED AT

1745, 4 AUG)

DOP, ADOP, C/CI, CAM 5, S/C 2

AUE 4 20657 62

PRIORITY

IN 40150-

PRITY DIR INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 1684

RET MEXI 8475LN 32230

GYROSE/LIfAMIL-S/RYBAT

DESENSTIZED

per ESH 43-43

do. "NIGKT S'AUG, CARLOS LECHUGA HEVIA, CUBAN AMS MEXI CALLED

LILAMIL 8 AND ASKED HIM WHAT HAD DEVELOPED RE CONTACT PARA & REFO

LOS SAlS HE HAD NOT HEARD BUT SUPPOSED CASE STILL UNDER STUDY.

^Z0 LECHUGA MOVE HIGHLY INTERESTING AS LOL BAS TO HAVE MADE

CONTÄCT LECHUGA WHEN NEUS RE CONTACI AVAILABLE.

30: MEXI OPINION LOS SHOULD CONTACT LECHUGA" SOONEST ORDER EXPAND

DISCUSSION'RES AND SEER COMMON GROUND RE LECHUGA PERSONAL POSITION.

IN VIEW LECHUGA SCHEDULED TRIP HAVA 10 AUG REQUEST HAS COMMENTS

SOCHEST AS TO BAT i-A MIGHT SAY. SÊATION OPINION LECHUCA INTERESTED

U.S. CONTACT ORDER DÍSCUSS CUBAN UOS. RELATIONS OR PERSONAL SITUATION.

END: OF MESSAGE

C/S CONVENT: "LITAMIL 7 TOLD CARDOS LECHUGA THAT LITAMIL I INTERESTED

TALK TO HIM RE PERSONAL MATTER.

6806 1

SECRETI

8N9g02At9,83d

RPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

201-267298

Copy Na

---

## Page 79

14.00000

22 MARCH 2962

ENORANDUM: PORA... CI/OA-

SUBJECTY Tranefor of Agent Files to TIN

The following agest f1les have baen perriarently

transforrad to Tri. Thay ulll assure all responslbllity

for those agonto effectivo this date. The arca of

operationa and dutios for the agenta u1ll not obango,

tharafaro, no PRO II anandiante will ba subalitod and

the offrotivo clarercos ars valid.

ESTAYILL

WANTIN

LITANIS

LITEYIL 6

C80638

61258)

C86903

C=93632

201-267293

201-274992

201-275338

201-304783

H. P. Folnar

der?.

C/1/3

---

