{ '104-10186-10301

rere

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ie

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

the Mettonat
USC. Gece tel and Te tbe Mronamtasiva or revelation of which in any manner to am Unauthocteed.pervon te

Deteos of the Canad Stas within the meaning of the Boplonage Laws, Tide
rotted

ty lew,

OATE OF
INFO,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
country. Cuba |” REPORT NO. CSCI-3/762,060.
SuMECT Manuel VEGA Perez ATE DISTR. 29 June 1964
NO. PAGES 2
1964
Washington, D.C, aeons

PUCE &
OATE ACQ. June _ 1964

THiS (5 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEVINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 5 TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

ware

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The following report is one of a

‘series containing personality information provided by
the source and includes supplemental information fron the

records of this Agency.

Manuel VEGA Perez, pseudonym. "Marcos," is the intelligence
chief of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI -
General Directorate of Intelligence) ‘in Mexiso. 302 *E +g VEGA
replaced Alfredo MIRAEEL in this capacity.1,2

Headquarters Comments.

1. A document dated 22 May 1962 from a fairly reliable
source identified Manuel VEGA Perez as the Diplomatic
Attache of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico and a forrer
teacher at the Cuban G-2 school. .

2. A fairly reliable source in a report dated 20 June
1962 said that (fnu) VEGA, aka "Marcos," is the
Press Attache of the Cuban Erbassy in Mexico City
and was formerly an instructor at the Cuban G-2 school,
Source said he believed VEGA to be the deputy chief of
the Cuban G-2 in Mexico.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REP_CINCLANT. CINCSO # I&NS

Dome: Hnld diaribvtlon bndtcated by “38=)

mn on Tae ae tea TKK Toa =

1 EACAN: LX - 1535
| NO PROJECT
Hiiaaaesht =e f a

7 Ta ext. fl Rin7an


3.

ORCRAT
NO: FOREIGN DISSEN

-2- OOSHE CE

A fairly reliable source was debriefed on 17 June 1962
concerning G-2 training, instruction and students. Source
attended the school for seven weeks in late 1961. fle reported
the following information on (fnu) MARCOS, Probably identical
with Manuel VEGA Perez, aka. "Marcos," who was-one of the

instructors:

(fnu) MARCOS was born in approximately 1927 in Luyane,
Habana. He is tall and has a heavy build: drown hair,
and. eyes; ao round, clean-shaven face; and walks slowly
and bends slightly forward as he walks. MARCOS, who: isi
Poorly educated, instructed classes in intelligence. He
18 now Press Attache at the Cuban mbassy in Mexico City
And ts understood to be the deputy chief of G-2 in Mexico.

A.resident of Mexico who has reported reliable. information. for
about three years said, in a report dated 18 May 1963, that
Manuel VEGA is the head of Cuban intelligence at the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City.

In a report dated 22 June 1963 the following inforeation: was
given on Manuel VEGA Perez:

Manvel VEGA Perez, the Diplomatic Attache at the Cuban
Embassy tn Mexico City, was born in ‘approxizately 1912.
He holds Cuban passport number D/167 and arrived in
Mexico in April 1962. He is single and resides at the
Hotel Agnes, Saltillo 67, Mexico City, He is known to
be chief of the Cuban G-2 in Mexico,

A 28 April 1964 report stated that Manuel VEGA Perez, third
secretary at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City and a known

‘Cuban intelligence officer, returned. to Mexico on 16 April

Y9G4 to replace Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez for an unspecified
period of tine,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEY ;
