‘104-10143-10088) [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

;
ieee ( SECRET (
;

: DOHB 70-1-1
; CHAPTER IIt

15 November 1974

ANNEX B
THE 201 an
Rescission: Annex B of sow rf, 27 October 1966
cer
L IntRoDveTIA a ait
The 201 system pro wy for identifying a person of specific in-
terest to the Operations Djrebtorate and for controlling and filing all pertinent

information about that person. The system also provides a means for identifying
subjects of 201 files from various’ categories of information about them and for
producing lisits of 201 personalities according to those categories. Only a rela-
tively small number of personalities indexed are of sufficient interest to justify
opening a 201 dossier. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and
CI investigation, prospective agents and sources, members of groups and organi-
zations of continuing target’ interest, or subjects on whom a volume of corre-
spondence has accumulated.

2. THE 201 SYSTEM
The principal features of the 201: system are:

a. The 201 Number: a unique number,
individual in the system to serve as identifyit

201-1234567, assigned to each

ing cr for reporting on that

individual. AW
b. The 201 Dossier: the oftieal fi Nagin ing the 201 opening form (Form
831) and all biographi oF a the individual, ie, pee-

sonal history, current
The Master 201 Rec ib record generated by the opening of
a 201 file. This record prédu ASter 201 reference for the Main Index and
stores the pertinent informatidh-which may later be retrieved’ for special listings.
a. Main Index Master 201 Reference: this reference, printed in reply to an
Index Search Request, is printed as illustrated below. When data are absent

within the record, succeeding data items or lines will be moved up and the ref-
erence consolidated.

: 23

SECRET

GUUL7E3 PACE A oe la


CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

|
|
|
i
i
i

INUAL
HN OF CHEnrsss
22 mnoucH

cossasss

Information About Subject

1. Sequence Number and Name
2 Sex and Date of Birth

3. Citizenship

4. Place of Birth

5. Occupation

6. Occupation Code

TA
Document Reference Pate gep \S)

am mi VIS eG)
=

11. Record Date (year only)

12. Reference

ISG Control Information
13. Date of latest update of the record
14. STAR Index Record Number

24

SECRET

estaieitibalseceen

ce YO tt. Ott

|
|
i



le enemc es |

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

e. OI Code: a two letter symbol used ii
sonality records in the 201 system to recq
with organizations or activities of oper
gence and security service af \\

.
suspect, as well as activities ®
codes for use by compo xy
(1) general O

(2) OF codes assigned’ & potitic component for intelligence services

or other specific organization)

A component may request an OI code be established by submitting a mem-

orandum to the DDO/RMO through the component Records Management
Officer.

A201 personality may be assigned two OI codes. An OI code may be assigned
‘when the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) is initiated (see
Paragraph 3b below) by filling in Box 13 or a code may be assigned or added
at a later date by a Form 831 amendment.

a on with the 201 per-
QSublation of an individual
st. OL codes cover intelli-
st agent, or known or

two categories of OL

The 201 system has the capability of producing machine listings of 201
Personalities by OI codes. For example, if an OI code has been opened for the
security service of a certain country a listing may be compiled of all members
of that service.

£. 201 Machine Lists: produced from the mechanized 201 Tadex, based on
names or other identifying information of personalities on whom 201 dossiers
exist.

3. OPENING A 201 DOSSIER A
\

a. Ceneral

The opening of a 201
ponent, in coordination,
a master 201 reco

e of an operational com-
roup. An opening creates

‘and the occasional closing

86
ks and ISG. 201 dossiers may be

of a 201 dossier are

opened on persons whi riteria described in Chapter I of this
handbook, when there is le expectation that additional information
will be acquired and filed in Such a dossier. Generally dossiers are opened on
Persons about whom counterintelligence information is being reported, and per-
sons of operational interest to the Operations Directorate, specifically those
persons for whom provisional operational approvals and operational approvals
are requested (see exception below). 20] files are not to be opened on staff

4 cmployees, staff agents and most categories of contract employees. Files on
7

25

SECRET



DOHB 0-1-1
CHAPTER II, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

Persons who are only of local interest to a field station or Headquarters desk
and on whom no DDO records cae ts are not a part of the DDO

records systém and are to be maintaimi@\b\ Qh Wait, Some desks levy require-

ments.on ISG for automatic ace

names appear in incomi¢g > Th
ANN

dossiers should b we ey ‘teat ies: on 14
CL) Subp Xs) pretional approval and operational ap-
proval requestssHow not be opened when a POA is requested

tional interest for tralning purposes only.
(2) Persons for whom the field requests a 201 opening,

(3) MHFIXTURE personalities: bonafide diplomats of other than
denied area countries, in close association with staff personnel,

(4) Subjects of a Personal Record Questionnaire Part I.

(5) Persons on whom a Main Index search reveals information in five
or more documents (see DOI 70-20).

(8) Subjects of Interagency Source Register memoranda from LSN/
ISR (opened only by IP/RMS).

b. Requesting a 201 File Opening

Headquarters desks may open a filling out and submitting
a 201 Personality File Action R 1) to the Records Main.
tenance Section (IP/RMS) 35}19 also used to create or amend the
Hine Jisting@\\end to register the assign-

area

ment 3 consists of sample
Wobetiing and amending 201's. A field
01. file by writing 201- in the Head-
@eebox on the dispatch form and/or after’ the
subject's name in the body'bf the dispatch. A telepouch request for a 201 opening
is made by indicating 201- im the file number line, A cable request is made by
Placing 201- after the term “File” on the last line of the transmission. IP/AN
will open 201 files as requested by dispatch or telepouch but it is the responsi-
bility of the desk to’respond to cable requests. Field stations are notified of
201 openings through receipt of the field master 201 record.

26

SECRET

GOUL76§

|
{

@ foreign Liaison service and who are of opera- -



5

|
:
|
|

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

4. CONTENTS OF THE DOSSIER

Information about a 201 personality should be filed or cross-referenced into
his dossier. When additional i information is Ze ved ona 201 subject through
@ name trace or other process, i.e, revi lecessor documents, it must
be consolidated into his a) i 70-20 for consolidation
procedures.

Material which i ot dossie aan is not limited to:
+ a. 201 ra File AN ‘orm 831).

b. Biographic i luding photographs, fingerprints, and
handwriting samples.

2 © Personal Record Questionnaire Parts I and IL.
4. Operational and other security approvals, ;
©. Name check replies, requests, clearances, and approvals.
£ Acknowledgement of pseudonym.
8 201 personality assessments and evaluations,
4, (_ Copy of contract and termination papers.
i. Secrecy agreement.
j. Agent Duty Status Report. Wh
k, Training and evaluation. a
LISGSWIRL x er
n. Any ma ge a better understanding of the

subject and our interest 4 ‘may include operational reporting.

5. MAINTENANCE OF 201 DOSSIERS

26.1

SECRET



SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

a. Purging
Purging a 201 dossier is the responsibility of the desk officer. It requires

discrimination in recognizing operationally .cecful material, rather than the

simple distinction between official ial papers; it will therefore take

Place under the supervision of ficer. Purging should be done

Periodically. A 201 dossien bain iGoyatded to Central Files for retention should
don "

oe RRS DS purgsdef the following:
(1) Bape Ne c88)(s) of a document.
wes

roakar
(2) Ng h ae 162) unless it his been the basis for -
the opening. :

(3) AN absthict slips,
(4) All document restriction notices (Form 1884),

(5) The disseminated version of positive intelligence information if
A Copy of the raw report is contained in the 201 file; the dissemination number
then must be transferred to the first page of the ran report.

(6) Routing slips, routing and record sheets (Form 610) and dispatch
‘cover sheets unless there are remarks such as coordination »» comments.

(7) Record copy documents which only repeat substantive information
fontained in other documents in the file; authorization he destruction is
by the Records Officer,

(8) Top Secret documents are
forwarded to Central Files; the
in the 201 dossier. To
officer in the origh

ined ina 201 dossier
e downgraded for retention

BP Secseb-document, an authorized
e Recs Oificer having jurisdiction
Y Ny Op Secret classification
@srded the file should be retained
at the desk or the c ment should be removed, retained
‘0 the Top Secret Control Officer, and a
cross-reference sheet (Form 867) placed’ in the 201 file giving the location

(9) Deferred documents (see 5b(2)).

b. Maintenance Procedures
(1) AU material in a 201 dossier will be filed in document date order.
In the case of document attachments which have been classified into a 201
26.2

SECRET

:
3
a



ete rien Ame DPT PIV AS ATER

“should be mounted sheet,

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER Ill, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

dossier and separated from the basic document by the assignment of a slash
number, the attachment will be filed by the date of the basic document.

(2) Deferred documents will not be filed in a 201 dossier. If they are
to be retained in the dossier they should be A" for classification

into that 201. {
IYY~and area desk eaids may

(3) Field index cat a ‘ g
be retained in the i olidatiorgprocedure. These cards
ig in the 201.

Berson who becomes a staff
employee and which fopy documents will be restricted to
the ISG/DIP unless the dddk Tetains the restriction. The dossier should be
closed if there are no Record Copy documents in it.

(4) A 201 aA
cok

(3) A 201 opened in pseudonym should be consolidated into the true
name 201 if one exists or converted to the true name. .

(6) Field and duplicate (shadow) 201 files no longer of active interest
should be incorporated into the official 201 after the duplicate, material
has been purged by the desk officer and the remaining information classified
to that 201 by the Analysis Section (IP/AN).

(7) Any document with a predecessor organization cover sheet or an
OPC (Office of Policy Coordination) cover sheet from thé Archives and
Disposition Section (IP/ARD) must be retumed\to IP/ARD for processing

to the 201. \
(8) Desk memoranda AN ‘a document source number)
containing substanti pDitformation on the subject of the 201
should be sent « fassi ipo the 201 file.
(9) An attad heat whici 8 i

for inclusion in a 2Q1
document to IP/AN for g into the 201.

(10) To retain the P&L, RYBAT, or KAPOK sensitivity of a document
remaining in a 201 dossier being retired to Central Files, place that document
in an envelope sealed with black tape (see DOI 70-17). Any RYBAT, P&L,
or KAPOK document sent to Central Files not in a black-taped envelope will
automatically be handled as desensitized. A blick-taped envelope may con-
tain only one document and must be filed in chronological order within the
file. If there are numerous documents of this type the desk officer may black-
tape the entire dossier rather than individual documents (see DOI 70-10).

fated from its basic document

26.3

SECRET

GUL 2E9



7

SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER Ul, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

Black-taped dossiers or dossiers with black-taped documents will be

_ handled as restricted dossiers.

(11) An. inactive 201 dossier or an caSive volume of a large 201
dossier on, permanent charge: shou to-Central Files under
Routing and Record Sheet with hia jown below...

(Por guizance see C53 TOL,
(Chapter TEE, Aasex 3.)

> 5 Voume(s) __ef_votuse(s)

fh of 201,

7 Pesteteted Dosster:
(Attach Porm 2021 to
aoiar)

[Oy Hon-Restrteted Dossier

——_ Fat
oe

ay ack a
.

tece,

7 %
<a)
Bx aioe GD Seceet consenting GPSS neuen
26.4
SECRET

¢
fers
sJ
3
oS

Gut



SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER Ill, ANNEX B

15 November: 1974

6. 201 DOSSIER CHARGES

A 201 dossier may be kept on seme ch
period of active interest, If the dos: ie

at the desk during any
ris =a another desk, the desk

officer who is transferring the do ust, sn pot tral Files of the transfer.
Central Files will then send ge of Pra nsx cument or File Account.
ability (Form 2977) to the ws

NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF DOCUMENT OR FILE ACCOUATABILITY obd a
ra r an a |

ha been eronuty, 728 thet eccountebtlity for the docisent(s) ead/or File(s) ctteg
delov bas deen transferred to you byt

Aectetgly, Tre records now reflect ‘jou as the custodian.
Est, 4362, df you have any questions regarding this’ trasarer.

Please contact IP/Fites,

are
oo ras tes [oe en emu een one | SEE Tare
S5752077 o08 oeae CONFIDENTIAL

The new action desk officer must then-4
Request (Form 813) to change the det

201 personality will be =

for his component.

7. RESTRICTED ee

a. Access tonsendt

201 Personality File Action
‘designation to insure that the

© and field machine’ listings

©)
mY restricted by holding the file at the

5
desk or placing it on rest fentral Files,
(1) The dossier may be restricted by checking - Box 2 on the 201 |
Personality File Action Request (Form 831) when the file is opened,
26.5
SECRET
L
GOUL7 TL PAGE Jy of Do
cory NO.


SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

(2) The dossier may be'restricted by holding it on permanent charge
from Central Files. (Note: To maintain the restriction of a dossier being
retumed to Central Files for rétention, a File Restriction Notice (Form

2021) must accompany the desig
(3) The dossier may hé% fd held in Central Files by sub-
Aon
ak ° .

mitting a File a>
ag

FILE RESTRICTION HoTICE

JACTEGN DZSK: 1. To restrict a file, complete Section A (aiguature of RO. aor
pecessary)
2. To renove.a restriction, complete Section B (8.0. signature
necessary).

RESTRICT 10: (Use country or noa-country cote sumber. See CSI 70-28)

‘RESTRICTED BY:
componesr:

Date:
Escr)
REMOVE RESTRICTION (AUNBORIZ=D Br) 2.0. Ho,
comeonra: Data ml
S555 zozn 2h CCONFLOEATIAL Core ewwer eon eos] vs

b. Access to a restricted dossier located Central Files is. limited to the

personnel of the restricting desk or persong zed by that desk. Any request
for the charge of a restricted dossier oraith nt within.a restricted dossier
held in Central Files will be SEN ¢htire dossier and a multiple.

k may then forward the file
|dossfer to Central Files, The

routed cover sheet to the r
to the requester or de
desk will notify

oo ts
a
WY ier, or a document within a restricted

dossier, permanently or charged to a desk, will be referred to that

desk by Central Files,

26.6

SECRET

GOOL

<J
-}
nw



ESAT SP ALARA BIG MDPA HBN  td AALOU DTA NRE

IPRA RICA RUN RE RRM sueNaer MocrTRIMRRS one NasnmNR!

SECRET

. DOBB 70-1-1
. CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

8. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION ON’ 201 PERSONALITIES

‘The Automated Index Section (IP/AIS)«y jovide the identity of the

subject of a 201 number unless the, 20f ile | icted, in which case the

requester will be referred. tectfelestishag SAN ; .

iN ate aumb, ho a name, unless the 201

fre signed, Requesters should ~
ei id Bysilubte for each name submitted.

supply identifying i
nN

“Requests pertaining t4(fi\Por fewer names or numbers may be made by
telephone by calling the IP/AIS red line extension; IP/AIS will provide the
information by retum call to the requester’s extension as listed in the Badge
Table. Requests for more than five names or numbers must be listed and sent

_ by tube or courier to IP/AIS; IP/AIS will reply by return mail,

9. 201 DOSSIER CANCELLATION

A 201 file may be authorized for cancellation by a Records Officer, after
appropriate coordination. The file should be forwarded to IP/RMS which will
destroy the folder and the cards leading to it and will remove the name and
number from smachine lists, Any’ Record Copy document contained in the folder
will be reclassified to another appropriate file or sent to the Destruction Unit
(IP/DU) as directed by the desk Records Officer.

10. 201 MACHINE LISTINGS

Machine listings provide field stations and Headquarters desks with names
and 201 numbers in the requester’s particu aphic or functional area of
interest. If a component wishes to ex e 201 personality from its
alphabetic, numeric, and eryptq igs \tits may be done when opening

the 201 or later by a 201 1 20] Rersonality File Action Request
i and interest desk (Box 16)
ay ox (Box 14), and indicate

(Form 831) leave then

‘heonly listing which will include the
ital Records program, 201 listings are
lard and as scheduled or special.

permanent charge ty)
201 number is the IP/20
categorized as standard’ o1

a. Standard Listings

Issued semi-annually to Headquarters and the field; based on a component's
interest as indicated in the “Action Desk,” “Country of Location,” and “Interest

26.7

SECRET

8001773



Desk” blocks on the 201 Personality File Action
standard listings available are: -:

SECRET

15 November 1974

ig to a 201 number;

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

Request (Form 831). The

DOHB 70-1-1

sath

ae

ahualal

a TERT RR
Fe
ram Ti “Tor “sTarmPcaee irs War SI=t orm ae = Tit, a
He :
TEP BS Ta cape
Ei BSP Haa ia ia cor OY one :
eee ioe cant ee :
a SE cua ni geo OI 2
Be ee Raid am
5 a enat se
Heat En E
cae 3
a ue ge E
tae
: Set
A
ow Ea
Hi eet
_ ne
oR, on
Raat ome Hise
miei «Ie Ee oes
Peat aa oe
Bis gw
Poe Bi
cPanopane, + eke fe
pti ge Sit
: Bi scion sia ia
Ethane el
Be ie
EB
. Bae a
i Sat eet te
beet Sk ot
. : ar
raneszese
a :
em Se
2 Seas eine diet ae
accra com \Yerk rave MStER, sy any emir’ Gheaeee cute Tare
HERE oi Nbo? rx are Be oe Be
on Ee, Rite
mons 9 BSE EIS Yah ear i
RE ae a

26.8

SECRET

GOULITS



- DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER Il, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

All standard. listings are cumulative; previous editions must be destroyed
upon receipt of current editions. These listings are by their very nature extremely
sensitive compilations of information and must be Ae’ possible safeguard.

a eW

) o
ce affiliation)"

b. Non-Standard Listings

* Based on one or more of the

(3) Citizenship
(4), Year of birth (ph
(5) Occupation. pana ee

These selection criteria may be used singly or in combinations. For example,
a user could obtain a list of all 201 personalities who have been assigned the
Ol code of XX or codes of XX, XY, or XZ. ‘A 201 personality list could also be
produced of all persons who were born in Germany between the years 1913
and. 1920, with the occupation. computer specialist, who are now citizens of the
United States, located in Mexico, and who had been assigned the OI code AA.
Note however that the listing would contain only those personalities with an
OI code AA. Those personalities with an OI code other. than AA and those
with no OI code would be excluded. The requester could however ask that
persons who have not been assigned an Ol code also be included. Note also
that when retrieving lists based on occupation, the listing will be only as specific
as the occupation code (Attachment 1). The’ occupation code for a courier
covers only a documented courier. Some occupation codes cover rhoré than one
occupation. For example, the occupation code CRAF covers those who practice
some trade or manual occupation, i.e., carpenters; bricklayer: painters, mechanics
and electricians. If a list is requested for electriciay in this category
~ will be included in -the’ printout, These nor ‘fand may be sorted
_(arranged) according to any, but nota@Rathan't e following keywords:

(a) Sims agen

(b) Given mame .
*(¢) “Date’ of birth’ °--

(4) Country of birth

(e) Citizenship

(f) OF code

(g) Location

26.9

SECRET

6004775



SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
Sorts can: be made within ‘sorts. For exampl ersonalities may be sorted

alphabetically. by surname wi
Because two OI cod ‘Be:
OI codes would ‘

yen. countries of jocation.

OL \co
ou persongllity, those names with two

7

Standard and non-s tings printed semiannually.

e. Scheduled ‘Listin,

8. Special Listings

: Unscheduled, usually ‘non-standard, listings produéed on a one time basis
an response to special operational requirements.

e. Request for Listings
Alll requests for standard or non-standard alphabetical and numerical 201
listings for Headquarters and the field, for changes in periodic listings, and for

information on the 201, machiné list system should be made to the component
Records Management Officer. \

gs
a
a

26.10

SECRET



sO PSN LEASING

Na

e

Note: 201 files will be open

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER Ill, ANNEX B
Attachment 2

15 November 1974

AUTOMATIC 201 DOSSIER OPENS

ed automaticilly <i tyiN te following cate.

Pc

a. Diplomats with xank of ell We
'b. Military attaches and military attaches.
¢. Intelligence officers of the General Intelligence Department (GID);

(Prior to opening of an ARE) 201 file, check with NE/E; for correct spelling
of name and additional biographic data.)

gories of people.

Aca)

a. All positively identified members of, andthe Intelligence
Services.

b, All positively identified members of the Military) Intelligence Service

|Commuist Paty oft Gh
officials of the: Comnfuns

unless there i at Jeng ate o oan)

a. All membersSOf irs Security ne
Cuba

Intelligence service employees (DSE, DGI).

or provincial levels and
pone Do not open

ce,

2

a. All| diplomats. C/NE/ISH} should be indicated as the originating,
office with CI/SP always indicated as the secondary office of interest.

b. Military attaches.
©. Assistant military attaches.

. Identified intelligence officers.

26.15

SECRET

8004977



SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER Ill, ANNEX B
Attachment 2

15 November 1974

5. North Vietnam

All diplomats and “oil stationed abroad.
6. USSR «

c OL
— se ficial representational installation, Le,
Ssy, con: 20k

iis ee national ‘airline (Aeroflot)

a aan
b. All Sovit igned. PCS to the United Nations in New York, Paris, Geneva,

and Vienna,

©, Audio technicians, after coordination with SE desk concemed:

a Students who will be studying abroad for a full academic year at institutions
of higher learning.

26.16

SECRET

004778 ;

