# 104-10527-10204

## Page 1

104-10527-10204

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ios in

95078

,7.84 4

1A8 11

72 pay F9

492

BOUTINE

CH: CA

85278

BELN LOW ANNA ADDI BERA MADE ANKA ALGI SUBH BONN

LOK? BAGE KHAR LIES COPE NASO EXTR LEOP MRIT THOB KIND

DAMA: RABA FOBI RAGU VIRS KARI TO BACO ABID ATTIS IDD

THIS CYRU TINY CHEE OBLO CAIR MOCA FACY GNYA HOME PriN

SER

PABARD

WEAR RAST AFRICA BRIEF

CALL INFO IS NOFORR.

NONE FOR LIAISON

1. CONED: //CONGOLESs SiLSS IN BRAZZAVILLA REP

CONTINUS TO POT TUS VIOLERY OVSTION OF ALOULA S COVERSET.

ONE

REPORT STATES THAT THS EXTLSS HAVE PANIO ISSASSTIATION ATTRAPIS

AGAINST CONCOLAB LRADERS ARAB & LEC.//

MATTION DOLITICIANS AND BOLDTERS WHO PLED TO BRASZAVILLE IN BARLY

OCT. THEY HAVE FORD A CONdINAY OF MATTORAL LIERASION A

SAYS EASY ABLE TO OPERATE RATES FINALY IN TIR CERAL POLITICAL

CONFUSION PARVALENT IN BRAZZATILE DIDER THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNIENT. / !

//DOCUMENTS TARIN FROM TEO ARETED SOVIET DIPLOMATS InDICATE

AND SONS OF THS RADICAL AFRICAR STATSO. THEY BATE ALSO DEST

at dutieroes,

8ACa3T"

ALAN THL ISSUING CAICA IS PRONID TED.

Coma. it:.

---

## Page 2

CLASSINE

NG

EXT.

0 INDEX T

DO NO INDEX

TI ALEN CS FILE NO.T

PROMI DIRECTOR.

CONFA

PubER 137

27Au 63

^90

1, 882

DEFERING CEN

HOURNE ADICK

cros 95377

143

SINE LEO

TO ME Fr

Met 2

530,20-

INTER LE

NS BIES VY

I PEPLICAN PRABAIT NATION PARTY (RIP) BRONTEDLY VOID ON

26 NOT TO PIRORA TRON THE CONSISSIE

DO CORON ONASEY WILL B3

TARN UNZ SSORO STUS THUS dAMIANION. LETTEDET MUPORT OF THE

APKP, TAX FOR-TUCS OF. THE M

!/AS LONG AS INONU'S RAPURLICAR PEOPLE'S DANTY AND THY NAT

TUNT ANY (MP) PRAY TOGETHER, A NEW COALITION WIGHT YET ES

STRUM MILITARY PREBBURE TO REMATE-I!

aul coas?t.

1".

"ING. CHFICE, PRIMATED.

ANTHINTIGATING

Lady tra.

---

## Page 3

$5777

-BACE 78788-

LANES MORALY CALCULATE MAT, IN MIN DAY, TAY COMED A

CLOSE BT3 OT TE OPFOSITION JUSTICH DANTY, INICA LA BACED BAII?

BY SUPPORTE OF TE OLD BIES LEGINS AID TO VAICE TISY BAVE LOS

BEBY BOSTILR.1

(AS JUSTICE PARTY, ERICH DOS A MAJOR VICTORY IN LOCAL

KLACTIONS LAST WASK, DONS MIT APFRAN SO PAYOR BUCH A COALITION AT

THIS THE 1Y APARTLY BALERVIS THAT IT COMA BOLSTER ITS POIN

SUPPORT SVEN PUNTERS BY MEATINES TH OPPOSITION. lI

harry

SECRET

Held Y Malle

stints d

---

