# 104-10166-10146

## Page 1

104-10166-10,146

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MIHTONMIATHON BUP SIR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY WAR

SURECT [TarolIscence lacestiller of the

Al-Hes15 Trading Coura

S-B-C-R- LoT

SOPORI/OO1TINUED CONTROL

1190ai No. 65-5/469,777

DATE DISTR I3 SApreTiDeS iDãO

NO, PAGES

REFERENCES

RD.

DATE OR

ина.

HACE &

DATE ACQ.AUT

SOURCE

ruso-July 1960,0,9

SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE.

CONTENT IS TENTATIV

08

Headquartere. Comsent:

Misireport nupplements CS 3/427, 619 from tho

da"

In: June-July, 1960; the: proffts of the Al-Nasir Irading Company vere being

08.

transferred (to a spocial government fund for financing clandestine operations.

the VAR Government vas aldo employing the coupany for its "lilogal" trans-

notions, such as trado v1th France, ca the tis of a commiesion see os

La parcent. (An Ermalan security offlter is revorted to have sa1d 1n June

that the company had been shipping arms from Surz Canal ports to south (8)

Africa for diatribution in African countries for use by anti-Duropean 10-

sutfeati.:

20

It. Colonel Muhamed Chanin, the director of the Al-Nasir Trading Company,

vas reported to have angaged 1a latellIgene operations urios ide prevode

8881gument as sanager of the Niel Compuns, 1s Beliut. ".

1.

Headquarters Comment. Probably Identical u1tk the Mile:sublicity

Agency.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do NOl Reproduce

arra

5/g2

---

## Page 2

dircia a

.....

NO PAGES.

2:

=

acresces: 20-33

alienaso

DATE OR

часе в

Deceaber 198, 9

ATE ACO (IBraeL, TeL AVIV (iecertar 1559)

HELO REFORT NO.

SOURCE EVAILAIIONS ASE DEFINATIVE

ATRASAI OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

source (An Auerican (Bi, Iros an africial of the Jeracil Mindotry Of Descala (T).)] 08

Apprasoel os Content: 3.

Readguttters Correal. In Vier os tha ATIBIA OS lDA SAPOTAREIOS, 1t suBE

se read vila aros reserve.

1.

IDO REXPEINA FITE, M-NaDIE' FradInE CEpAny, [sEhor Ray Do COllabOraisas"

/VIch VAR Intelligenco os vas establlabed by the UAR Gonerasent lo finance

08

alistary Intel!igence operailass not coread by the regular buegot..

diretor-senorel os the Siro, Li. Colonel Mulamaad Ghante, la an istiver 08

la tha counteresplona:e: branch of Military Intelligeaca, dravs military

pari) and dose nos appoer ta couch the profito as tha company. 4)

8o 'Lt. Colonol Chania 18 rusared to buro sald ha vas Instrusantal in the •

organialho of the Balait uirleing for valch purposo se used the nuse of

Mubannad al-Maar1.

in has sinisteriai status and balorge to the inner

olrcles of UAR Preelient Janal 'Abd-al-Haa1r. (Ela Lixediato supertos 18

06 [Abad therar,) Charla maintalns an eccount in ble nese et the Banque

"Cenavolsa do Comerca et de Credit. lo traveled In Hestern Durofe durias

Hovember 1959; vas In Geneva, Sultzerland on 1 November;

§ November frum where do vent to Brussels after a seu daya.

• 3.

The Ml-Nas1r Irading Company is chiefly engaged in the marketing of rico

and cotton.

Cotion exportad by the company, on the basla of government

allocations, 18 ceven percent of the total Egyptian export in this sleld.

The firu 1s represented in Geneva and Peris by the Exatern Company over

vaich it acquired contral for the purpose of cotton export. One of 1ts

managers 18 'Abd-al-'Az1a Hisayal, tho sakes occasional buainesa tripo to

Europe.

Ish1amesd Hienla, had opened an account in the Banque: Genevoise de

ommerca et de crcait.

This report stated that chauim had been in

on

e overber!

5 November 1959, 10_ Parta,on 11 November, and 1n Brussele

S-E-C-ñ-E-T/TUFORI/ CONTINUEL CONTROL

ARMY

• MAVY

IxlAn

by "7", Phald diria oiten by

"#**)

REDORT INFORMATION REPOR

4/g70

---

