[104-10219-10049| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

EEX Latin TRICAN =
x

eo HE IS A PERSCUAL.

SERvING IN

NARJORIE LENNOX, US EMBASSY Sz



ECONOMIC SECTION OF -

THAT SHE 13





Osteaa ul in/ba SECHE®
2268

RovrTEg \

3 DEC 67 15 »o4

CONTACTS HEM YORK
FROM 058 (5i5ULI)
CLOGED CABE 48248 - VIOLA JUHE COED
BEVG1 WA-TEIAS
Bron 6829

RE MYOR gok2: THIS CABR BAS RENN I CLOSED STATUS FOR BOOM TOR, rr
WAS REOPENED DRIEVLY 2) SERVICE REQUEBT FROM O/T FOR CURRENT AMDREBS PER
REYELIRCES. 32 IP YOUR RECCADS DO NOT REVLct CLOSED STATS, PLEASE
ADNBY ACCORDIMLY, THANEB.

5 339

reg
B

t
|
i



Boe 3

SECRET 847822 CITE CONTACIS/NEW YORK 9242
CONTACTS UASHINGTON
OPERATIONAL SUPPORT STAFF (MUSULIN) FROM FREUND
CASE 48248 + VIOLA JUNE COBB
‘Yo YOU MAY RECALL SUBJECT ONCE WAS DD/P “FROPERTY™.
Ze DOSRY BASE WAS NOW CONTACTED US TO FIND OUT SUBJECT 'S
CURRENT ADDKESS AND RESUHE DIRECT DEALINGS WITH HER.
Se VE SEE NO BASIS FOR JOINT ENDEAVOR HERE, SLADLY YIELD
TO DODS INTEREST.
4e BAY VE CLOSE THIS CASE?
SECRET

AHI yh og



SECRET 18496922 CITE CONTACTS/NEV YORK BA29
CONTACTS/¥ASHINGTON
OSS CMUSULIN) FRO™ ELLIFF

CASE asoaGl = VIOLA JUNE CORS

PLEASE SEND CHECK TO 116 EAST SETH STREET, NEW YORK,
NEW YORY, 19022, FYI -- YOU MaY YISH TO MAXE A NOTE
THAT HER CURPENT ADDRESS IS 342 EAST 55TH STREET, APT.5D
TELEPHONES EL 5-6261, (SHE DOES NOT vaNT MAIL SENT
TO THIS ADDRESS, MOWEVER, AND PREFERS TO RECEIVE
MATL AT THE 58TH oT Catia
SECR . _ af

Bi 490

£4, Hd S21



~ ot
; {
1
2268 : SECRET 1
ROUYIEE
18 ocr 67 1030 2 2 $0185 :

CONTACTS HEY YORK
ELIV? FAG 088 (KUSULIN)
CLOSED CASE 48,248 - VIOLA JUIE CORB

PLEASE CHECK TO COHFIRM SULJYCT'S CURRENT NEW YORK ADDRESS, FIBARCE
DIVISION OWES HER BOME MONEY AND WOULD LIKE TO FORWARD HER A CHECK. TWX

REPLY ASAP.
4
be
‘ = 7
! = A
i a i
8 qo
fest 1
=
he :



te

be

!
|
|
|

|
|
|

ernoust ton no 18 ~N

UNITED STATES GOVL«NMENT

Memorandum — SEGRE

TO : DCS/oss pate: 17 October 1967

From: Chief, DO/DCSL

susject: June Cobb

John Markham, DO/I, called to see if DCS might have subject's
current New York address. Finance Division owes her some money and
would like to forward her a check.

DO/DCSL's log book reflects info on Subject fwd DO/I/WH (Mr.
Toth) under date of 7 August, CDS Case 48482 and B67-166. lowever,

‘the first name was Viola June Cobb. vig
a8 Oa

49

as Ot
Excluded from ©tomatie
downgrading exd

doclassihzation

ayers



ae SECEET ce

ro 1 Directer
¥Yedoral Bureau of Inveatigatiea
Attention: br. B. J. Papich

Frou 3: Depaty Director For Plans

SUBJECT: Joho OATIZE
ISTSRRAL BECURITY-CUBA

i
i
i
{
i

ia wade te your informal request dated

3. Reference
Aprih 26, 1937, filer (LA) 208-165506, subject ac ateve

and te this Offies’s CSCI 316/01566-60 dated 36 Kareh 1906.
3. This fs to advine you that this Office no leuger

bag contact Gith the ecurce who originally furnished the
information conceruing Letelie SUXOLUTAKA de HADRIGAL ia
Harce 1966. Source ie currently reaiding im tho Cuited
States, Row York City, asd we have so vhjectioa to your
contesting the source sad cobriefing ber comeerning any
Questions you-may have conceraing this case, Zource has

bees alerted to the fact that you might contset hor regaré=
feg thie matter, feurce ig Viela June COBB, wavally referred
to aH June COEB, the is sentioned in your informs] aszorandua
te this office dated June 1, L864, Gibject: Lyle Stuart.

3. Ya vould eppreciate being apprised ef any aew

infereation concerning the SUKOLOWSEA case that is surfaced

85 8 result ef your debriefing COBB.

€GCI-316/02338-87

19 my 1967

DDF/WB/COG/CICS/E. Ayers: jaf Pile: 201-273841
201-794302

Distribetion:



SECRET

wish SH

SECRET 1813192 CITE CONTACTS/NEY YORK 3955
CONTACTS/WASHINGTON
OPERATIONAL SUPPORT STAFF CHUSULIN) FROH REAL FOR ELLIFF
SUBJECTS CLOSED QASE 48,248 + MISS VIOLA JUKE COBB
REFs WA 76715

MISS COBB HAS CONSENTED TO F&I INTERVIEY AND WILL COOPERATE

FULLY< NO FURTHER ACTION CONTEMPLATED HERES > :
=O mem r
' SECRET Cha i

BT . Hi

soz SECRET, .
Eleeine, Oye wh/c abn Ply .

ge yrermemnrmn



Sees

GEOR 8. KUSULIN: 3
2268

SECREE
ROUTIER
LT WAY 1967 1500 1 a 16115
COBTACTS/HEW YORK

GROUP OHE EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOVSGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
RLLIVP yo O88 (MUSULTE)
Lose se M8240 + vss YEOLA JURE CORD
a

/ Yt eo
WADRICAL HEE GOMOLOUSSA, U.S, CITIZEN, COBB HAS REPOREED OW HADAME DE
WADRIGAL 10 AGENCY IH THR PARP, MT DERIRES 70 DEVELOP SOX INFORMATION 03
DE HADRIGAL'S ACTIVITIES AND CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS WHO WERE KKOWH TO HAVE CONTACT
WITH DEMADHIGAL. WE HAVE HO OBJECTION 10 Tis BUREAU'S APPHOACH AMD TRUST MISS
COER WILL CONSENT TO SHE INTERVIEW AND OFFER HER FULL COOPE:AITON. WOULD APPRECIATE
HOPLY ABAP,

BECRET

ok
i
t
H
Ht
H



GSHUSULIN/js

SECRET
2268
ROUTINE +
Shab
20 April 1967 1000 a 1

CONTACTS/NEW YORK

ELLIFP FROM OSS (MUSULIN)
CLOSED CASE 48243 = MISS VIOLA JUNE COBB

490
REF: ELLIPF/MUSULIN TELECONS 17-19 APRIL HESS

THIS CONFIRMS REPERENCE REGARDING COBB'S QUERY ABOUT 1966 TAXES, SORRY
TO KEEP YOU WAITING SINCE WE COULD NOT LOCATE ANYONE 4HO COULD GIVE US A
RAKRS READY ANSWER TO MEET TAX DEADLINE. CHARLOTTE BUSTOS, HH,’MEXIOO, ADVISED
THAT COBB HAS BEEN ASSESSED POR HER 1966 AGENCY EARNINGS, HER TAX OBLIGATION HAS.
BEEN SATISFIED AND SIIE NEED NOT REPEAT NOT REPORT ANYTHING REGARDING AGENCY
INCOME POR 1966, IN FACT THEY INSIST THAT SHE HAKE NO REFERENCE TO AGENCY, 1966
EARNINGS AT ALL,

PLEASE SEND US COPY OF HER FORM 1040 PILED WITH INTERNAL REVENUE FOR RECORDS

_ PURPOSES AND TO PROVIDE BACKSTOPPING IN THE EVENT ‘THAT ANY QUESTION EVER COMES

UP ABOUT HER 1966 (AGENCY) INCOME,

wke2t) Oey

SECRET



SECRET 1422042 CITE CONTACTSAIEW YORK 7421
CONTACTS MIASHINGTON
OSS (HUSULIN) FRON ELLIFF
SUBJECT 2 CASE 48,248
DO YOU WISH TO CLOSE THIS CASE? MISS COBB DID CALL IN
HID NOVEMBER AND AN APPOINTHENT WAS MADE FOR HER TO CORE TO THIS

planet wat

i
}
i
{
|
|
|
i

OFFICE. SWE LATER CANCELLED THE APPOINTKENT AND WE HAVE NOT HEAKD FROB
WER SINCE THAT TINE.

y i
SECRET Y07, ; G : a
BT Chose (Ase

}
i
i
{
|
|
|
i

i


7. SECRET

Culef, Hew York Field Office 29 August 1966

Birector, Dozestic Contact Service (068)

4

Bow Case t82s - Hiss Viola June Cobb’+ Roport of Posoible
Contact end Request to Interview. e

1. This is nev case opened to your office, Ve

2. Attached copy of Chief, WE/Divieion nezorandua
dated 22 hugust 1956, te celf-explanstory, Should Kise
Cobb contact your office, pleace take appropriate staps
to intervies her in line with the cuggested eecion ine
@teated in pera (4) of attached request,

JAMES R. WURPEY

Gtuzulin/es i
ee: Services Biv. (Control)

Attachment

oe SECRET

ee aie”

roe



wn
Die
a
Fs)
m
4

MEMORANDUM FOR: Domestic Ozerations/Wi

: Director, Domestic Contacts Service

SUBJECT : Miss Viola June Cobb, born 24 August 1927, Ponca,
Oklahoma

1. On 22 or 23 Septerber 1965 Miss June Cobb contacted the Hew :
York Dowestic Contacts Office through Ivor Gordevitch of the Vision i
Megazine, tryin: to establish contact in New York vith CIA to pasa :
elon: some information. ¥ii/1 chose not to establish contact with
Mise Cobb at that time, cven though she was cleared CIA agent in
contect with the Mexico City Station.

Recent Developments: ldo

2. Mics Cobb was terminated effective 1 July 1966 avd vas paid
her salary through 30 June and given money for one-way air fare to .
Tew York City. She was ccnpletely satisfied with the financial terns e

was terninated for lack cf a:c2ss and production, there was also

considerable newspaper publicity in May 1966 in the Mexico City neve-

papers wherein Subject was attacked because of her connection vith an

anti-Commmist seeting, the Latin Arerican Conference to Study the i

Situation of the Jewish Minority in the Soviet Union. In this pub- a
. licity Subject vas labeled as being closely connected with U. 5.

Goverment Police, and also as an agent of the FBI and INTERPOL. She

was also accused cf working for a nevspapermen Daniel Janes who was

described as being responsible to CIA.

3. Miss Cobb planed to return to New York in July where she was
to look for a job. Subject had been told previously by the Yexico
City Station that the telezhone mumber of the New York CIA office is listed
in the directory and she could call that office if contact vere necessary
while she va3 in the United States, but that she should only establish
contact for an important or urgent matter. Since Miss Cobb tends to

i
}
i
t
j
i
j
{
i
H
|
!
|
i
| of the settlenent and sicned 2 Termination Secrecy Oath. Alvkough she
i
|

papery



“SECRET

Liberally apply importance to a wide variety of events and
since she te lixely to be short of monsy shortly after arrl
Division believes there is a possibility che nay try to establish
contact.

Suggested Action:

4. Wil Division suggests that you may wish to forvard a cozy of this
nenorandum to your lew York office. If Miss Cobb does establish contact,
ve would appreciate your cffice interviewing her to accept vratever
information che night wieh to contribute, but that no financisl
commitments be made on our behalf. Wi Divisicn rlans to have no direct
contact unless the infornation provided would aprear to werit 1 spectal
interview.

by Qt hw
litem V. Broe
Chief

Western Herisphere Division

