104-10163-10134] (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

WFGa = 18340704

Action: None Required

1. Forwarded herewith (RYBAT) for the following LCFLUTTER
reports with below list of IRD numbers and, if available, 201
mumbers with cryptonyms:

IRD NUMBERS 201 NUMBERS CRYPT :
\ (5893: i r 5) ¢ ) ;
66810 : (281689) CAMCLATTER/1)
66811 fi ¢ -) CAHISLE/ 3)
66812 (731777) 4AMBIG/3)
661s ) ¢ )
66826 (308739) {aNoT/132)
66817 (289939) (AMSNAP/4)
E 66018 ¢ )
‘ Bintciant (ai (291237) CAMWOO/1)

2, Identities of the above reports. are forwarded a8:a
i" separate cover attachment,

: ee EMD OF DISPATCH
: o
: Attachments:

‘A. Reports (RYBAT)
q B, Tdentities (RYBAT)
\ Distribution: Eeeeee a none i R Reproduce

2 = KUSCDA watt A/le9 h/wys B/1-9, “u/s/e :

10 - SAS w/o atts.

acta — GOvas fF

| : APR 2g 1964
t: reer ; ss -
ie UroA-15540" ; 24 April 1968 {
a4 BSy 704!
\: 317s Was aoiysa, 20

2899395 nee

3 eons wee ne eiem

—


BPGA 4 15349701
F praksalin Sf

# 63810
1G April 1964
Subject: Iden A
Subjeot was intorvicwed and tested on 16 April 1064 at a
safo site in the Miani aroa st the request of ionry FP.
REDUOLTZ, The interview was conducted in Kaclish,

Subject bas been tnvolved with KUBAK’: since 1959, Fera .:
eae previous to that tine Subjoct was cooperating with ODEKVY
a Cuba. He is currently being wed by P¥ as a source of informe
tion om the Cuban exile community. The excuse for testing Subject
was that he was being cousiderod ict training. The actual purpose
af the interview vas to resclvo issues raised by JHVAVE/AUDESK
which are detailed in WAVE 2672, dated 26 Pebruary 1964, oe

RESULTS

Sabjoot has worked only for KUDANKK and ODENVY, He has never
Ceoperated in any with any intellicence service of any other
ir been asked bo cooperate with any commmist

-Gcatrolled intolligonce service, He. deca acs make intelligence

type reports to any one other than ODYOKZ, Subjoct has no

9: Oomunication with anyone outside PHPRIIZ. He is vet

‘ooa' with anyone whow he suspoets of being a Cabem agent,

He bas never taken part in any cennunist activity,

Pes

Subject stated that it is widely inown ascng the Cuben exile
Community that he ts in touch with KUBAIK, ‘The fact that this 1s
knows is partly what enables his to cvtatn inforsation which is of
interest to KUDARK, Subject stated that uo sore thas four or five

al know of bis invelvecent with KUBANK, Among then is
a

2 SR SS

Subject was asked whether he ecacunicated in any way with
individuals livizg outeide of PRPLIMZ, He stated that the saly
fasiviceal in tnat catexory was a foraur Cuban CIC member by the
pens of Iden C whe presently works for the Alliance for Prozrsss.
S423 € ts Sov Useiseved ts be is Headuran. Subject stated that hie
wife ecoaunicates with hor faatly in Caba hut Subject stated that
be 1s positive ake does not diseune any af hie notivities ts these
commnleations. :

Subject stated that his wife in fully. movledgeable of his”
KUDARK activities.

i

|

4

|

| Subject was asked whother be bad any agreement to eseperate

| with any of the exile orgenisctions. We stated thst im the Cormal

{ sense of the word he had no such axrocnent bot that he was idealaatoaliv
i Seemitied to ANDILOT/i ana the AKYURLD ergentzation. Sebseet ctated

BASIC DOCUMENT FILE R_2os- PESO ee
UFOA 154 1¥/e /
[buch

Vé ape af

RO1-AST1bEF,



PAG 15349 501

# 66810
16 April 196¢
Page 2

that be has not had any contact with ANBIDDY/1 siuce he waa told
to sever his councetioa tn Sebruary 1963, Ma does, however,
Cocasionally see ESA and BAMNO, Froa his remarks it ts quite

obvious that Sabject tas a great deal of affection and respect rer y
AMBIDDY/1, Subjeot atated that he bas done Bothing recently to |
actively support ties AMVUNLD Sroup but that he would not vesitate
to tell anyone, if thoy aslod, that he felt AMWONLD was worthy of
@ll the support that tho inquirer oould give,

Subjeot stated that he also has &@ great deal of respect for
the 30th of Havnuber Horewen: + His contact with that group is

Idoa D, Sidjoot hue only xnown Iden D for about two mouths and that
incidenteliy waa the reason why Iden D's nase does not appear on

tho List ef Subjeet's contacts Given to the Station in 1964,

Ia @ Uiccuastonm of whether or not Subject discusses KUTARK
business with unauthorized persons, Subject stated that he did
Rot believe bo was privy to what micht be considered Glassifiod
dmforastion beartug om KUIAKK activith Be potated cut that
his taforuation gathering ectivitien ne itate a certain asount
Of give and tare whieh tnvol: bringing information to the
attention ef certain individuals in order te cheek their reaction
te that inforuation, Subjoot bas not made any deliberate erfort
to obtain taformaticn regarding KUDAKK activitios from his contacts
Qmeng the Cubam groups whe work for KUDARK,

H
t
t
H
i
i
i

Im the disouesion of binokaail potentiolitios Subject, stated
that he hed cace been <atinate with the wife of Idem B, Me stated
that es far as he knows lden ¥ is not avere of this, but thet Iden 5
ence told him that he had coxpiled doregatory infermation resarding
Subject end forvarsed it te KUUARK officials,

Subject atates that he inmows at least the follewing KUBARKere
by true mam: Iden F, idem G, Idem UM, and Iden 1,

joes statsd that he wight recall ethers 1f he heard the

sal
eames. ibjeet Gees met know the ane or location ef the KUBARK
base im Mteni,

Sabjeot stated that Se has alvays felt that KUDARK has cone
Sifered vin a Cuber rethor than an American, He wished te vnke it
very olear that he Joos net consider himelf @ Cuzaa bat om the
Contrary considers hinself an American.

Subject ciatec that ho felt that KUBARK was not utilising hin
to the fullent extent of ais abilities, * Ile stated that ho desires
to becese & psrasnomt KITANK asset end’ that be would like very such
to be atilisod, sfter the @pprepriate training, in the PH field.

Reith D, Vinge?

Coontuegndrdonbye: passers ganijaissardnsasiaiens



Stat “WRGA- 15349 /04

fa
f

# 66810
18 April 1966
IDERS
o  Idew A rd Leon DANEER Te:
in pratrs 17 Maron 1917, Havana, Cuba a
Iden B Angelo DUXDER
Idea € Jesus ARTICAS
Iden D Hiren GONZALES
af ‘
Iden £ (Fader noutes ] o4
Iden F (sense Woot | 05

Teen 6 ‘GBoon Stavari | 03

|
| aes
|
|

3éea 3 aviesom , ARS
| !
; i
: |
ueee J
‘ ts cory |
L WEOR IS B97fop RL : oe Bes-aslG® _
. i
L Ie J uae |
