To ot
Atta:
FROM
SUBJECT:
REF:

104-10189-10017) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Eta eas ied

UNITED § TATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
SEA-57-68

Director, DCS DATE: 7 February 1968
John W. McConnell

Chief, Seattle Office

Alleged Anti-CIA Comments made by Priests at Seattle University

Denver memorandum DEN-51-68, dated 1 February 1968, with attachment

c

1, You will find attached copy of a Memorandum for the Record
dated 31 January 1968 and written by Don Jordan of the Denver Office.
The text of the memorandum.needs no further explanation,

2. I made a cursory check with local sources who were unable to
confirm or deny the allegations made by Mrs. Margaret Panning, mother
of Miss Clare Louise Fanning who is currently a student at Seattle
University, Since the matter is not cxactly in our ken ‘and might be
of interest to the PBI I miade a digest of the original memorandum and
gave a copy to the Seattle FBI Office. A copy of. the digest was also
given to Mr. Williaa Barrus, CIA 0/S, Seattle Resident Agent. A copy
of the digest is attached. Seattle FBI Office said that they probably
will not take any action but would pass the information along to their
headquarters in Washington DC. In all probability the information
will be attributed to the Seattle Field Office.

3. 1 made a further check with Coloriel Michael J. Dolan, Place-
ment Officer, Seattle University, to determine if he had heard anything
about the subject matter on the campus. Colonel Dolan works with Mr.
Thomas L. Culhane, CIA, OP/RD. Mr. Culhane says that Colonel Dolan
can be trusted to be discreet in any dealings that we might have with
hin. Colonel Dolan was unable to give me any information of a sub-
stantive natur¢ regarding Subject but stated that Miss Panning is
having academic problems and her grade point has gone down steadily
since enrollment at Seattle University. Her present courses are all
taught by laymen so if she has any contact with the Jesuit priests the
contact would be outside of the classroom. It was Colonel Dolan's
opinion that the university administration would be very interested ia
running down information of the nature outlined by Mrs, Fanning.
Colonel Dolan has stated he will make some discreet inquiries without
implicating either Mrs, or Miss Fanning.

Buy US, Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan |


Subject: Alleged Anti-CiA Coments made by Priests at Seattle University

4, If ft {8 determined that there {9 any truth to the allegations
we Will be advised, We suspect, however, that Miss Fanning fa fabri-
cating in order to cover up Ser poor academic progress.

WIR:ks

ect Chief, Denver Office (acta:

S. Jordan)

Attachments



Pe pesocenaecrtaptastead ot =

‘31 January 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Call from Mrs. Margaret Pannlig Regarding Anti-CIA Activity
“at the University of Seattle

1, On.18 January 1968, 1100 hours, the Denver Office received a
call°on the listed number from a woman who identified herself ae

Mrs, Margaret Panning. “Mra. ‘Fanning stated that she lives {n Pueblo

at Stapleton Airport enroute

on for calling us was her great concern

to Texa
about whi » {8 being taught about the CIA and the
Kennedy ination at the University of Seattle where Clare is 6
@tudent.

2. Mrs. Fanning has recetved several telephone calls recently
from Clare in which Clare inforzed her mother that soze of the pries
at the University of Seattle (2 Jesuit school) had convinced the studenta
that Garrison's theories about the assassination are correct azd that the
charges about the Agency's toplication are also correct.

3. Mrs. Fanning stated that her daughter ts actually afraid of tha
CIA and considers that the CIA ts comparable to the Gestapo. Mrs. Fanning
stated that she tried to persuadé Clare that what she (the daughcer) had
head te totally untrue but Mra. Panning had no success whatscever in

changing her daughter's viewpoint.

4, Mra. Fanning also stated that Clare asked her to be' sure not
to repeat to anyone any of the foregoing information and that the priests
at Seattle University had instructed their students not to discuss these
matters with their parents. Mrs. Fanning was obviously most upset that
a faculty member at a university, particularly a priest, had instructed
students not to discuss matters presented to thea at the school with their
parents. In this connection, I suggested to Mrs. Fanning that she possibly
had legitimate grievance against the school and that she sight write a
letter to the president on this particular item, = -

5. I also pointed out to fer that Lf there is in progress at the
University of Seattle activity which could be construed as a threat to
the US internal security, the FZ2I vould be interested. I expressed
appreciation for Mrs. Fanning's concern about the nisinforzat‘on on the
CIA which is apparently being disseminated at the University of Seattle
but pointed out chat there is very little we can do about such catters,



Page 2
3h January 1968

6. Asa further indication‘of the reasons for her extreme concern,
Fanning mentioned that Clare has reached the point that she vant

to send Garrison money and that. group of the students at the University
Of Seattle would like to go to New Orleans to democstrate support for
Garrison, :

7. . ta the course of her discussion Mre. Fanziog mentioned that her
ughter"s godfather is a man by the name of Rodert Lotitc whoa Mrs.
Fanning said vorked for the CIA for nine years, The daughter, Clare,
eophasized to ‘her mother that nothing should de said to Lotite about
the daughter's beliefs in Garrison's theortes on the sination and
the CIA.

MICHAEL M, TODOROVICH

DSJordan/jéa



i
ot

Te was: learned on 18 January 1962 that there is an alleged
anti-CIA activity in procress at Scattla Untvarsity. The

inforcant fe @ Mrs. Margaret Fenainz who Lives in Tucblo,

Colorado, Mre. Yanning states ‘thst her daughter, Clare, @
student at Seattle University fo being taught thot CIA vas
fuplicated in cho Kennedy sascssination.

” Mea. Fanning allegedly has received several talephona calls

recently from Clare in which eho related that eon of the
pricata at Seattle University hed convinced the studcnto that
Garrison's theories about ‘the acscasination are correct and
that the charges sbout CIA's izplication ara alco corroct.

Ure, Fanning states her daughter 1» afraid of CLA and considers
CIA aa boing conparcble to the Cztapo, Mra. Fenning hes tried
to perauade har daughter that these chargeo ara totally untrue

but apparently hao had no auccess in charging her daughter's
viewpoint.

Yrs. Fanning aleo states that her daughter hee deen told to
be gure not to repeat to anyona the foresoing infornatton and
that the priasts at Seattle University have instructed their
students not to diocusa these cactera with their paronts,

Mrs. Fanning stated that her dau:

strate support for Carrison,

er has roachsd a point where
ehe wants to send money to Carricon and that a group of otudeats
at Scattle University would Like to go to New Orleans to denon-

'
|
i
|
1
i
'
i
!

