# 104-10185-10097

## Page 1

104-10185-10097

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DAYS OF

NO.

PinCE Ris

DARENACO

SOURCS

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

Cuba

Armardo (patronymic uzinown)

RSPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO: PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCt 316/00713-63

9 September 1964

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

:1954

Washing-o.g

D.C.

Senterber 1964

• FIELO REPORT NO

UN'TVALUATED

INFORILATION.

SCARE:

ENT IS. TEN

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Ciban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Commerts

The following report is oze ofia series cortaining personality

Information provided by one sousce ard includes supplementa

Information from the recoras of this Agency.

It is recüested that the addressees take no action on any of the

Irdividuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

1.

Armardo (patronymic unknown), pseudogym "Frances,

works at ine special school of the Direccion General de trichigareia

(General Directorate o¿ Intelligence - DGI) where guerrilla warfare

training is given foreigress; he is in charge of classes in

explisives.

armando is a captain in the rebel army. He was

an aide to Raul CASTRO and fougat with kis group in the

mourtains.

2.

Source described Arnando as a Cuban citizen who was

born abou: 1929.

He is about five feet sever. or eight inches i?",

155 pounds, and has a medium build. He has a fair complexior,

black, short, hair, slightly bald in front, small eyes, a hawk

uase, and a dea, 4a0o, 7,a,2,58, zyays wears an army .

uniorm.

5

4

3

2

STATE

I DIA

INag

SEP CNCLiE

Noie: Fiels dissribuion indicated by "=*)

DE, 803

3/ R

RID/AN

NEL DEVEIL

TOTALS

WE 'SA7(1. 1312. CIA RD!

102e N0

ARSTILTE PREVINUS DITIONS.

1 6 40030 1965

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

NSA

TFBI 2

CACSO E

I&'S

chart his

CNIC

BITSOU

—1N-1658

-NO PROJECT AS-0-1;

Cscl-316.00712.07

LIAISON

6, 17

201-253699

3/p1

---

## Page 2

6:

7.

der Contents

10122315Px0ba125

coin roasts for

AS

Mates to kaua

iNvo

CASTRO and it rould seona

recides with such sintlar names

LOSt

To owns tences, thor back rounds appear

Lastances

Similar

tod that rando TORRES, was a member

socare unversaty students cect

un versity

abana: Cubas Betwas savo

ross to obtain ald in the campates ecalast che kurtio

гУтА

Ano one our the person portone one cred e

suresu in Habana's

Afairly cellable source, in a report Coted tay 1918/ ddentitted

Grando TURES sa Cuban pro Cornunist delegate, to the Latfa

Co zeu representative to the Coastess.

do untested source in a report dated 9 July 2958, sald that Armando

Tomss, also referrod to as Bustalo sill, clalned he was Cuban

born, but had studded in Spain and Frances

To a report dated 1l July 1958, an untnown source listed the most

important people surrounding Raul CASTRO: Included was Lt. Armando

TORRE, an

aide to CASTRO, and described as having been born in

Cairsuey, studied In Paris, traveled to Spain and called "The

Frenchnan:

"In this sane report an untested source. said that

Anando TarRe, aka: "Bufialo Bill,.

• was born In Habana about 1926,

ras five feet six inches tall, 140 pounds, had black hair and an

conplezion.

Two usually reliable sources, in a report dated 3 and 10 July 195S

described Amardo TORRES, an aide to Raul CASTRO, as a suspected

Corrunist wao had returned Cuba fion Spain and Hungary ten months

before. TORPES was identified as one of the persons responsible

for the rebel decision to abduct Anerican citizens in June 1958.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 3

Jan in Changues

about

te lian interviered the

es-costa Ricon pressere, dose fiGurieS,

Carnang 1n 1950.

That following the tugurion Berluciou ha torrey

veno Io vlonna to ald sungarian rerugees. una caccesciacly cutered

monrong were te rematrica

soventeen cours before returning

Leána. The roport was dajed 14 July 195S.

la untestod sourco with exceliont contes sten Maistan oxile siclo

cated 3 July 1959;

stated that Capais armando TORRES

tus tho. Cuban military Attacte to Haitt

10 a unsested sourco, in a report datca 3 May 1960, sataethat Artado

pure Cuban inbassador, arrived in Roseron 10 April 1950 andi leit

Sos New Yosk on 26 April 1900 via Pah Lortesa Airlinesty

Pesccords of this Aschey ruvealed a copy of a passportitor

cotada Arrendo TORns lesores, issued in mbana on 6140x11 1260,

sich the destoniacion, Erbajador Est dordinario,

1s0 Included

tana Cuban Revolutionary identification card for Arsando TORRES

tesones showing e held the ror prrcaptain.in the Direscion

ToseligoaciaGe and that he was bort da Cassgier, Cuba, on/

A september 1930. TORRES vas la Rose on an ars bayins mission

Folloti mg 1411.

He was born in l931, is carried and has oze child. He

ard his wifo are orch leonals. Toares isa good friend

o Vilma ESpIN and Raus CASTRO and aluays lives: very.

close

to the lictor.

He is five feet ten inches sall, weighs

berween 1as and 150 pourds, las greenis crot cyes black hair.

a t:¿a laco and is white:

He ivas in the Sierrs laestra with

faul CisTro.

TORRES speats french, English, Italian, German.

Jamaican, Russian,

and Portuguese.

His speciality is ciphers

ind translatzons and he bas been an assessor of all the

departments of G-2:

In G-2 he

is

in charge of iraining

military

attaches.

Torres, who is adventuross and brave, is

100% Communist.

'S E.C.R-E T.

NO FOREIGY DISSE!

---

