‘04-10186-10334| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

a CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ; &. ot

TEES Sein inrormation azecting the Naurcal Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Explore Laws, Tie
MAE SS Swe TS and FH the transmission ce reewetica of which In any manter to an Unauihorie pervon te probibited by law

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

country Cuba * gePORT NO. — CSCI-316/02286-65
SUBJECT Direceton General de Inteligencia pate oiste 1 June 1965 _ :
T) Personnel Abroad He
. NO. PAGES 1 RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
REFERENCES, Do Not Reproduce
DATE OF 1964
INR.
PACER Washington, DR. C.
DATE ACQ-(y) ra oer Buc FIELD REPORT NO.

DRrS 68 UNEVATUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GEADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964,

1, The Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence - DGI) overseas field-station chief has no respon-
sibility for physical or other security of the Cuban Embassy or
Mission, nor does any member of his staff.

2. The DGI would not use a regular foreign-service officer in the
field because he has not been cleared and briefed and ts not,
therefore, considered qualified for intelligence tasks. If a
foreign-service officer is briefed, it may be assumed that he
has been cleared and that he is thereafter considered a member
of the DG (at least by the DGI). On returning to Havana per-
manently, Such a foreign-service officer briefed for a field
assignment normally would be sent to DGI Headquarters rather
than to the Ministry of Foreign Relations,

§ 8
4 4
: S-E-C-R-E-T 3
: NO FOREIGN DISSEM 2
i
[rare Da Lae, Trev lam 1 Nsa Tae Toet TFET 2 -

HREPCENCLANT CINCSO #  ISNS
Mot

in Fate ciuvibution indicaied by“)

{| NP (AMMUG-1)

'SCI-316/02286-
ae

HC_OS [5 aaa
FEC WAVE [2 Spee i
Mswec g (1), WE 1 (1), CI 4, RID

R&A

gp

Tae
