# 104-10100-10391

## Page 1

104-10100-10391

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSINED, MESSA

ROU

2562

PASSAGE 18 BELUN

0 No: 63

04.422

DatE CEN

ROUTING

-.

u3), 1

ROUTINE

99

SOLO BEAR

ART CAR ACCABANGLE

MAMMA ALGI MBLE ONCE

SEA SEAS HERE, EJAN FUCN

THE JIDD LEOT RIG CREXT

MAIL DEI HAT SING QUIT

ARO BACH NEID TRY KHAL RIOD

N ADDE

01: 318

88421

FBBAND

PORLD BRIBE

24

MOTORM 1Y SLANTS REMAININE INTO NELMABABLS TO ARALOONIJ

1. SOTIST INTELUSCTTAL CELINATI TODAY: MRITARS OF THE LIBERAL

PERSUABION BERN TO BE ANNIN: HAT GE TEX CROUTD LOST IN LAST

SFRINGS CULTURAL "STAGBIS " CORSERTATIVEB ALI STILL VOCAL IN TASIE

CRITICISM AND NARISHLHEY AFFEÁNS SO RATE RAYANIND TO A POSITION

DY ARLATIVE NUTRALITY, MJOUP:

2: SOTITY M0ITVES IS SRALLENGYNE ALLIRD EEBLIN ACCESS: THK

BATEST AUTOSAIN IRCILANT AS A FUNTEER IDICATION THAT LUBCON IN-

ISSIO 10 CONTINEN HARASSINO BELTOTAL COPYOTS TO OVERFUNT ALLISI

INILLIMEESS E ENLALE X" A NEY SOLND OP DIFLOMATIC EBGOTIATIONS

UN ENDANSE GURUTION PEATED TO "TE STATOS OF VIST BBELIN. BOTH

TASE ANO MPECCA RADIO CLA: ¡HS INCHENA NAS THE RESULT OF À

SBCL6

-- 8, da

to. 01.50

DrACE iS FRONIBITED.

STICATING

Copy No

1524

---

## Page 2

Cat's

a die insta

ponen

'11 1.

BBCB3T

8Nen 63 64 422

CiTE DiR

81421

-PAGE NO.

"DRLIRERAIR PROVOCATION " THE LB8R APPARENILY DEBINKE TO AYOID

MIZ RISI OF EVEN A LIMITIO MILITANY CONTRONPATION.

PILIPS TITE TUL SIE CO ASSURITO THAT CARTAR"S MILITANY ESTABLIEUNEHT

18 MORE COMARIBURATI VITE XTS POSITION AR A MATTARS CRARTO PIER,"

TEIS FULICY SIVIDI IB GETONNTE OF NOUNITHO UNLASINNSS IN THI DENEHN

ERPARTHINI OVER GAF FETUSBN OTTAÑA Y MILITAN! CONMITHRNIB AND BISOUI.

TO CANAY TREN OUT. ALTROTOR BONR CUIS IN EXPENDITURES BAVE ALEX

BABE AND MORS ARB KIPALTAD, AN LABIX SHXFT IN TES COVIRMAINT'S POLICY

TO DILUT NUCLIÃS IZADONS LIR EN AND CANADIAN FORCHS STATIONID IN

CARANA 18 MALYRLY, TE HAY NIEL A ERACETEL MAY OF GITIRO DE Á

RUFLRAS SOLE ONCE 1918 P-1:18 AND MORARCA BECORE ORSOLATE. II

d. ITALI: THE POLITICAL BITTATTON IS MARKINS TIKS, POLLONING

FREMIER LINONES RESIGRATION AND PENDINS PRESIDBHT BEGNIS APPSINTARRT

PARISISIAS DENTEATIC METT E INCI EL MI SESGUIO OF HIS BETURTE:

TO PUT TOGETHER A MEN ENTEN LIFE LOTERIEN WILL PROBABLY 3E KNONA

RY TATRO DETE UN. MAED SALCHINING TINE ME SOCIRLASTE IS IN

BACHER

NEY OTHES THAN THE SSUING OFFICE IS PROMISIRED

---

## Page 3

pieces.

BBC&ST

18

5

8063 64422

R: JU:INt

- PACE TARKE-

CTE O SI4a!

PROSPECT, IBONTIS OUT A NUTUALLY ACCRUTABLE LBUISLATITE PROGRAN

SAS YET TO BE YACED UP TO. IMPROVINO TER PROBPECTS FOR BUOCERBBUL

NSCOTIATIONS I8 TAX FOBITIAN OF ISI CHURCE UNICE SITAS TO HAVE

TEMPIRES SOMPERAT 1TE OUPUSITION TO A SIGINS IN TAICE THE CHRIBTIAN

DEMOCRATA AND BOCRALIATA MOTLO BE FASTIRES.

S. FISAID: LOMS FINISH CANINET CRISIS ENTED 31 OCT THEH

PARTY CIVIL EXITAST TO TILL TORTE VACATED BY TARNS UNTON RASMESSENTA-

TIVES VE MILIENS TRON THS CABINET LABI ADO IN TROPESE ONER À 00T-

KANNUAT SANTARAS TO SATUR PRICRA. 991S IRPRIMANTO A SNINO TO THE

RIGHT IT TER AGRARIANS DO MINVIOUALY HAS DECLANTO THY MOULO DUT

FASTICIRGTI EE A CABITY MISCH DID NUS INCITTE LABOR ENMERIRITATIVES

INCUMANT OTTICIALS MATI NAPATHO DINIA ORO CABINAS POSTA, VATLE TAR

HI DETE RATI DENY ASBEANSO TO FOSTE OR MINOR INPORTANCE, ORDE

TORITUFIDO VITI TIR ABRARRAE LASTVITO, BALANES TO A BRALL PACTION

WHICH ADVOCATES CONFINIAT RARTICIPATTON IN TIR DOVIRRATE, (CONY)

8. COMEDA BARNSI: CUIGNE DESTINGS IE BRNYARLA DE LEC COUNCIL.

AND AGRICULTURAL MINiSTERS HAY DETERMIKE VHETHER BONN AND PARIS RIPT

ONER A CONDOM MOBICULTUTAL, POLISE AS, DRE PERITE LATO AN IRPECONCILAES

19C85

10E0G6A

REPRODUCTION OY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING ONCE S TROMBIED

---

## Page 4

THESE

coir.

+ 910053 912422

HISEN

iNFO

Cy n 8142/

-PAGR FOUR-

DISPUTE. ON SEY I8SON ON GRATU PRICES ANNIES 18 BCANGELS

MOPITIONS POR OIRMANISE, TEL STERLS" BOLUTTON, DO PIX MINCES

ALIA CONSET FUNDS AND ONUKE LEVELS, AP$SARS TO

гово ватний мет. і

піта навт os.

PROTONAL SO CONNI ME

* is

Barity la cut

70 dartis

FINARCINE THE Ti

DCBIBTATION ELASION IN YEARN

L¿ JAT DELY ANTER CRONA PAINCE

PATSAL BAD RECEIVIO ASSURAICES TAR INS UN MOULO INNET STRON:

MASSUIT DY BOYSE TO SONAR IES.

¡ OF THE ASPERINTE, PATRAI WAS

RADE TY CLIAR THAT EE MILE ME ANTINUID ONLI LE CAIRO QUICILY

ITTUMANS ALL INA TROOPS MISS INI SORTIELS BACKPTION OR A AMALI

M1LSTAI7 ADVISONY MARION, MI PRORANS DOUNTE THAT BETTS MILI DO

THIS, AND MAY IN MATTABIRO TO KITIN AID TO NAN INT BOYALISTS

AFTER THE IN MARIDE INAUDE, SUOMITARY CENTERE I HARE, FOS

HIO FAST, AFTANIAN Y NEMAINS DETZIUHINED TO REDICE DE IMUOLVETTIN

JABIR IS CONTINCIPI TO INIMUBIN 30 UNO TO 'E, DO FREE A I: LU

JI EUPATIN, ANTI UNITS LETTERN BOOFT SID 17459, AND SPARE ILY

RESACRUCTION BY OTMER THAN THE ISSUINS OFFSE A PROHIBITEO

---

## Page 5

tEsA

ta0 014?2

DERRETT

ROUTINE

cire sia 8148/

HAUS LÁTILE SROCESES IN TORRINO OUT A POLITICAL BUTTIENT TEAT

FOLLO FLICATI TRIRES SON SORTILE DO TES INVERLICAN ERGIA. HIR

INTORTO SO ACTILIVE A MONS BROABRY BRETO CONSIGETT RAY RES

PAST ITATNO DY PINNIERRE BARAI S JITURE SO CATEO FON MEDICAL

TIRATANET FORSERINE A SPACE ASPICI.

B, I13IA-IRAQ: SUSONS DI INTENDID FOLITICAL SAYON JESTERY

IRAQ ATO STRIA ODIATHES SO ADORNO NI DUTI ESTATIÇÃS II SET MASE

ON PER TON LATE CETORNA CORTITICI dE MI 1I

STATIONAL LEADERANT

08 DAI SSATE MEST, MARO DINE BARINISTO

MATO GIRE MATERIERA POI CATE/ TO RAPTO ETERO

TOMANO DOCRALINATION AND ARAB UNITI AFPANETELY DONTRATÃO THE

ПОСКРІВ, //ЛА ПАТІ (Р-ПОТВ ЗАГА ВІТАВ, НОМ ЛАКИТИЯ 03

SYRIA, SVXDENTI NAS BERA DROPPRO TURN DIS INTOSRRATIONAZ CENTIRAZ

СоНАТиВ. !! ТИВ РАКТІ В !

ПАРКОКТВІНЕ ПАЛІНКУТО ВАВ РИНТИКА

ALLINO TITOLI H

AR GROUN IN BOIS COCATAIES NITROVI

GAININO ANY SIONITICATS ANN ADHREENTE, CIVIL BENVANTS AND ART

OTTICIRE BATI BRRY DANORALIXEO DY PURORA, ACANTILE//PIANS :U EST

UF A JOINT MILITARY CONNAIO APARAR 5O HE NOTIDO POSTARO PAPIDLY.

SYRIAN TROOPS ARE IN IRAQ FELPINO TIS CAMPAICH ACAINOT TER SURDE

REMODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE SSUING OFFICE KEROHIETO

---

## Page 6

fri,

3.NP-HDK

CAME FIE?

84. 110

DIRFETOR

CONt:

ROUTINE, AN

INFO

CITE BIR 814/31

¿Ã FALS ARE DARRAY TO DRAN IN L CHANTER ON SCONNIC DALTY

JETUXIN MYRIA AND IRAQ.I1.

NES LANE LINS LINIA LOCATIC MAY

• 24c...

RES ASBURKD OF RATUR

1 no era run

INS LONE HONES C

Diaz.

MATE IN HS SIT.

• коно, 1.

KOP AN8 19 17: 28840601X

MENT SOY SO BIN RIACTION TO A T

LETT IS SOPTHS 1O CAPTTALIIA WOX DIRRATINRACTION MITH THE INA STION

52424

pert. *

TASTE, IS HAND OPROSITION TONCH, NUE METRO COLMAT VITA TE

IS STERLIE TO RIES SES BION LEPTIARO TAXTO IN JATATINE VONTRO

BABITE TO MIN 10 NOSE BRATS AND ACHIEVZ BY ITIZE ONE-TSIED

ON THE JOGJI HETTIREHIS NECHSBARY TO BLOCT CONSTITUTIONAL

ALTADAGATO, ISSPITE TOO SOCIALISTS: JANIM NUERATION, THEY

REMAIN OFPOSED TO IRDA'S CLOSE RINS COLLASORATION HITE TIE US.

(CONF)

87240

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE SUING CONCH PROFITES

ALT

---

## Page 7

ISSIFICO MESSAGE

*Kissin

3 T

#ROUTING'

5.

8 Noy 53

04432

DEFINEGEN

CITE DIR

81421

-pACE SEVER.

10. MOROCCO ALCERYA TAR CRASS FIRE BATUBEN MOROCCO AND

ALGKRIA BICANS RIVACTIVE ON 4 NOT TIEH & MALIAN OBSERVER BRACHED THR

BATTLE MiGO d$ FiGUIS. ALUANDE TOUCES TIRE BAI CONTINUO THELE

ACTION FOR NO DATS AFTER TEX CRAB-LINS VAL TO HAVE CONS INO

ПР ТИКІВ ВУТОНІ ПЗРАВАТОР ДО 1 КТІВІ ФР ТЛЕ ПРААНТХАТТОМ 0Г

ARICAT BUTTI, AND THE PORSTON MINISTKRS NAY CONVKNE XN ADDIE

ABARATE LOGOT EN DATA, APARENTLY DO PRODIRA NÃS ANAL SATE

TOMATO MOLDINO À NANTINI OT DUS SONA-ARNER CALAERIA, HARDOCO,

SITIOPIA, ANO KALI) CONMTIRSTON IITAZZIANTO NY THE CANS-TIRE REARRE...

IT TO 8ST EP A DENILITARIEDO IONS STARE TIE TEO APARTES,

BONSVIS, AND THE BUTLOUT On DUrE BINIS I8 ITHY 5O CONTINUB.

O1 145 ALORRIAN BONESTIC FRONT, BRN BALLA AXPOETEDSY HAS MET UTTE

LIARIOS OT TAR LABTLIX DIBBIDRNTA IN AN ASPARART EIFORT TO

ACHITUS AS ACORRORATION.

11. TURKIY: LUCÃÙ FLECTIONS DE 1Y NOY MILL SA FROVIDE THR

FIRET TEST ON THI PASTIES: SOPULAS STARNOTE SINCE 1061, AND MAY..

11=5

automats.

sire gar

MIRODUCLION SACHER THAI THE ISSUING OFFICE STO NEIT

---

## Page 8

2 CRA C

UH'T

Fyi

& NO INDEN

CHE IN CS RIT

1. 0: 192".

r..4:

191405 :

7=13

1190889-94 432

DESHA DEW

ROUTINE

iNFO

-PACK HIGHT-

CITE DIR 814/2/

LEAD TO ME DINAT-S OF TANTER IONG'S CONLITION COMBINGUT.

MOST CARAVIAN PITECT TRAY TIE ONIOAITION JUATIC SATY, DEAN'

РОЗ ДІНТ Й

ANY MITY E

i our rit too, "ir

mailin is

= FANTY IS INT JUNT A AELACANAFIUS DI

MY VOULD 801-4991717108

MAY II THONY BRUIN LE

Tulket NeTY, iT 7a

BANE TINE, IS TIRRATINNHS TO PULL OUT OR TINI MADERLI CONTITION

NICADIX ON DSTECTIONS IT IS SUTIBINE FOR INN DOLS IN THE COVENTICA

AND HAY SOXE THE OFFOBITION ATTIR CAR KLACTIONS. IF IT SEATS IT

VILL DELITO TE RSPLACHNANT OR INORT, IVAN TO DORT OPFINIATIC

SPONSOMAN SINCE N ONE REFUELICAN PROPLE'S PASTY DO SOT SOPECT

SICAS OF XIBIONING DANKA MINABUNS, ANY COALTION MITHOUT EITHER TER

TIP ON SP TOULO DEFANO INCRRABINLY DU MILITARY SUPPORT.

2Z. aTAL FILTRAS: THE SSESEALA FRO (NINTHREN THE DIEN

POIF 2513 MARES ME MARE AUGEE

BRUTUCTION BY: OTHER THAN THE ISSUING DEPRE 16

---

## Page 9

GA'S :

MESSAGE

3B CR-BT

5

1432

Ireneous

CIE SiR 8142/

-paCk nInE-

A LANGELY CIVILIAN CARINET RAS REBA AFTOINTED, BUT TES KILITARY

¿IBARLY INTEND TU MULÚ THE EGIRS DE COVERANHT. BEHERAIS OCCUPY

TAB POSTA OF DREAMOS, SECTLITY, ADE INTONATION, AND À MILITARI

XIICUTIVI CONKITTRI STANKO BY MAJOR UNNERAL DUONG TAN "BIG" MINI

IS FOGISO TITE SURINE EXECUTIVE AND LENISLATIVE AUTINTTY ETTE

THE CHARACTE ON A BUPRACABINET, MIL ELMERALS TAVE ALMIBADY HAD

PIAZ TUBUBLE BRALINE VITU ANSITIOUS TOLITICIANS SOCIBTING FOR

FORTS, AND ASS TANNE ABORT ION LONE NTITANT AELS FITS 200.

MATY CIVILIANS AND ESHIRALS ARE JISTAJET A° T IGNINSHEE OF

MAJOR ENHERAS TON THAT DIMA, TAR HEN NTLITARY COVERNOR DR BAICON

AÑO MINISISA DU NATIONAL SECURITY. II IS CONSIDERED OPPORTUNISTIC,

ISONLY SABITIONS, ANO IRRATIONAL: THO OF HIB PORNER BUBOROTRATIE

HATS MARA HANNO AS CONMAMARBS DY THE MILITARY CORDS ARRAS SUR-

BOUNDILE BAICON, THE VIST CONC HAVE STEPPED UP SHALL SCALE

HABARHINO ATTACKS IN THE ISITA SINCE THE COUP.

13. GRESCE: TIL HARROY UPSRI ELCTION VICTORY BE GRONGY

PAPANDERDES CINITA INION MAY LEAD 10 AN EXTEBRED PERIOD OP.

POLITICAL INSTALLI!:! IN GRRECE. PAPANDEROJA, MITH 140 OUT DE

pepsister en

C24489

NOgU

---

## Page 10

Ja 108,8

M944

A8LS STIVOI SVA SISTUS ME DUILTONTA MI SION SAIBIDNA SINONITE

IL BASTANDO LO SITI CENON LE LARRIVERE SET LENINO ON

TINA SY MY 8999414 LINTUTO DEFONORA DU JURABÁE NI JIRA RINETA

1NO0 B977N0 O6 A5KB VIIA NOMENTI

N SINONIATA 'SIPSIONIATA66 542A0TI06

SIE DAGZAN

MET TOGHE SOLAMENO ONTI

TUITA GARA OS 128917: 81

31247R444E ASTEMY

TVARIATE IN HOSA SILVES LLINOVA IMITION Y MIOS DE LUN

a pesas 00, 10

•1168499

DEA 41748 1A8

19. 1012110111 52718105 ZON TUA SUL 307 SUOIO SI JUVA XAVE

OL HOIIVIARATS TOI INTRUSIOO Y EZIAVORO DE DULASA RI 'BATIS COS

31.

: INUNO&

ZEN HA ESARO

K1380338

ONCA

---

