# 104-10120-10035

## Page 1

104-10120-10035

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 * ;

FILE - H

T8-2252

• NO.

TRAVEL ORDER

7 Juus 1936

ALLOTMENT ACCOUNT. SYMBO

73100699-32

NAME

OFFICE PHONE

Mr. I. Howard Butt

8002 I

333₴

GRADE AND SALARY

C3-15

817,568

pomation decent, Il

OFFICIAL STATION ...

Fairo, Jagen (sepan Stetton)

You are hereby authorized to

travel and Incur necessary expenses In accoïdanc

Agency Regulations Sate

1253

ITINERARY

Iroà oftlotal oversian statien. Tokya

via Ba

хота Isao, to

tretafog peter

ta rossetyaost t

& daya

BaG.

around Mee

8: 512350

PURPOSE

Home Tanya, IDT and liarsigment to snother onersene ers

SPECIAL PROVISIONS ON

RIATE JUSTIFICATION

popondent set

Was sed te

not to Boss Je

5 end

suthortand

effsets (4500

10 I4

300 T0s.

sed par pozeò

an beat

• transportation

baggAg

AUTHORIZED

OFELOR (BBA ETEY

ID1 cutterited foi erfontation and tralains pator to

JUSTI

In the flala on 1 Juns 1954, Anerued ZanTe As of 21 APs

DO 13 0BEA

J DO/P

I OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

THEATER CLEARANCE

ADVANCE OF FUNDS IS AUT

braval).

283

how

ESTIMATED COS

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

NODE 8: 19044 7956

TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY

I батету

1957

(A)

INED AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE

CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

CERTIFICATION

Certified a True Copy. Signed

copy on file in Central Process-

ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

necessary. Amended as indicated.

03

(B)

CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGFOUS TO THE GOVERNMENT

THE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED IS EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE

IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION, YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT

TO WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS SET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS.

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE,

IS AUTHORIZED.

TEN NOT OF DUTY ARIA, NEUR ENTES SO PENTAIN OF INMENT FANNY, HOUSEHO DOG, PERSON ARE TE NO AUTONDONE.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE.

that

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONE YEAR

10u8

Inara Polat

TEMPORARY DUTY.

AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZI

ALTURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

КАУ БАЛЬНАЯ, ТЕ/СРР

FORM NO. 540:

REPLACES FORM 33-27

1 00Т 55

OCT. SI WHICH MAY BE:-

USED

---

