40217-10223\¢.,

(2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

se PY Ages gal.

~ SECRET

(WHEN MATERIAL INSERTED)

BLACK TAPE 201 FILE

TO: IP/Files, GC-52
FROM: EUR jew’; a. AbMoD. 6771

. a

He

. \ 7 + a 7 :
‘, TO BE OPENED BY Personnel ot BRR Oe ONLY!

BON £89 Designation)

°

'
\e wim enclosed.

“VOL.
* Inclusive Dates of Enclosed Material
(Multi-Vols. Only):

From! Dye ip_ Dee oF
_ (Dan) 23

I certify that the enclosed 201 volume
has been checked before sealing to
ensure that the material is arranged
in chronological order, duplicates
have been removed, each Record.
Copy has been properly inputtothe
DO Records System, and that all
Record Copy material in this volume
is classified to this file. Form 2021 to
restrict this file is attached hereto.

———* t
oy



: te

4 °o

’ i yn

y =
i a o
a 3
: ie
5 =) [4
w
i g a
; |
H ~ .)
{ eee
: ait
f _ nm

z

: :
t



- On 24 October 1968, I saw Dr. Daly of the Bio-chezistry
tory of Hospital for

et ae

& wv

\ des, sent m vi

@ private patient, as practice is not to tazxe these

tests unless the ioral S condition seers to be wor: sen3n5-

My doctor thousht I showed ro signs of a recurrence of -_
ané the normal practice would have been, at most,

‘or me to have deen exarined ty the specialist as. the

hospital, who cigkt then decide to asx for the tests.

Daly said that all required tests, eyeeot the i
would be done. He said he tnoucht

unless the others incicated Resceive MS aetors,
case, he said he weuld ask me to come in again for
test.

Daly will. send re the results of the tests and his bill
c/o American Express. within a week.

THe BESS FEE
GOCRDINATION WITH 6/8457.



3 : ‘ #
Seegeceeae es
SECRET gules
(WHEN FLED 1) }
STATEMENT of EARNINGS ond DEDULHONS a
t
Tae THPLOVEE NOL] PAY PERIOD BATE] ROLE “eas caren arn
CRPHENE 3 692799, Reda t Ti aeeae 20 1262930 | 00;
1768 4
eB exannes J DESCRIPTION tj
= u
REG SAL NOTE; nr
THIS FORM IS ISSUED ONLY WHEN AN i
EMPLOYEE ENTERS ON DUTY OR THERE '
1S ANY CHANGE IN THE PAY ACCOUNT ‘atc
{
HY
DEDUCTIONS

LIQ PAYMT
CPB EX CR
FED TAX F

EAPLOER KUMBER:

802799 CGRPHONE
$3 1314 Previous editions obsolete

Be ee rr

envy meme ype Te eR

ADDITIONAL, aisha DATA

ber I es | UTR | BONES “] ofa ant | 3 awounT

a

reer Fae n rte cet tne

Po

tycoon



to. Chief of Station, London Jomty quausieo oes
Chie! EUR Division JOAN supce exoecm

ie
Chief, WOLIME a

esispsoasbsbdonesstssbsonse st onstssonsestessoneaat

Chief, LcPrprt/tondon 7/3 777

see DTDORIC/Operational -

ORPHO

1. After considering several alternatives and given QRPHONE/1's
lack of financial forward planning, LCPIPIT believes that it would
be beneficial and advantageous for WOPIRM to offer to subsidize a
portion of an overt life insurance program designed to give him both
life insurance and a cash value toward retirement. We have dis-
cussed this with QRPHONE/1 and he has agreed to the desirability of
such a program. He is willing to participate in such an arrangement
and has undertaken to explore the possibilities available to him.

We are forwarding under separate cover a copy of several proposals
which he has received from the local representative of a reputable
WOLADY insurance firm. :

ee

2. LCPIPIT requests authority to subsidize up to 1/2 of the
cost of a life insurance program for QRPHONE/1. (This WOFIRM portion
not to exceed $50 per month.) From an administration standpoint.

this would merely take the form of an increased monthly payment and
we would take the necessary steps to verify that the funds were
indeed being devoted to their designated purpose.

Sere

_ TESTERS

ERENT

1 - COS/London w/o att
1 - C/EUR w/o att t

Oars
OCT c2 £33
22 October 1968
rare

|_--201- 306052



cee Sima iuacia aie aa 7G ah threw -
eee cue ranges t OF PA-I39%

J. SPENCER LANGFORD. C.L.U.
MUTUAL LIFE OF NEW YORK
(nony)

Mo oUcEN seNE'S CATE Ali
Lonnon, $.w.t

orace ante 3
13 September 1565 ;
H
ae i
1 :
fear :
i i | .
i j | |
jovciatissieerasenetascoan
Dear . |
Ht
The following will give you an idca of the protection, cash at 65, and } |

retirement incoine you will get under three cifferent plans on the basis we
discussed on th phone, Let me know if you need any more infocreation,

|
Premium - $50/tnonth $ 75/month $109/mozth f |
: i
Plan Type u
Whole Life
Death Benefit 23000 35000 47000
Cash at 65 21200 33106 44400
Life Income & 55 133 237 278

Endowment at 65.

Death Berncfit 17000 25000 33009
Cash at 65 25600 38109 50300
Life Income @ 65 160 239 315

Retirement Endovment @ 65

Death Benofit 11000 17000 23000
. Cash at 65 25300 3910) $2900 i
Life lacorme 6 65 158 245 331

1 look forward to hearing from you in the near future,

1 - The retirement income figures are monthly income at 65 using the
10 year certain option

Note:
I wold be willing to puf up, or have ‘

deducted, part of s
$25 a month. ueh a scheme, say

Al - 206052
: re

ORO
anda



5

2- Any figures concerning dividends are not guarantees nor estimates
since dividends depend upon future experience and the annual action~
of the companies trustees ‘

3- All figures are in the US dollars and based on standard male issue
at age 37,

Sincerely,

ee

J Spence’ Langford, CL.U,

epee Ske

Hi
1
it
t
i



woe snssace vous
roa cons

. ce SECRET n]

“cad wens find} a)

SECRET : 10a

222 der gy
~ [cpirrr INFO LONDON, ROME
qj] RYBAT DTDORIC QRPHONE HHPRobE 7 ‘
:. REFS: A, LCPIPIT/ 7508 (IN 08511)
+B, OEPW -'405, 8 Oct 68 7
i [ve 1, DEFER PARA 2 REF ATO ROME (PER OIRW-27586, TELEPOUCHED
) : a
9Ocr). : 4 \ .
PoP. : it) . ’ a

72. REF B, | POUCHED 8 oct, reports GENERALLY SANGUINE beele

: MEDICAL. PROGNOSIS QRPHONE/ 1 HEALTH Fouuownd | PERMITS
!
SHORT TRIPS To CONTINENT PROVIDED HE (WATCHES DIET CAREFULLY AND

DOES, NOT OVER TIRE, UNTIL CLINICAL AND CHEMICAL TESTS RECOMMENDED

i ‘IN REF B PRONOUNCE HIM. FULLY RECOVERED,

FILE 200-124-156 /3.: a fe
’ + END OF MESSAGE

fa.



pee

PROCES DEH AUNTY

DISPATCH =" cccae

" Chief, LCPIPIT /London

ae.

Chief of Station, London
“Chief, WOLIME

aang
YBAT /DTDORIC.
__ORPHONE/1 paetcrmermn onditton

Soran me gvm - mes CaaS

REFERENCE: OEPA-1312, 10 September 1968

1, On the basis of the documentation submitted under reference dispatch, the
Medical Staff feels that ORPHONE/1 made a surprisingly fast recovery and seems
well on the way to complete health, However, the hospital report (2 quick transla-
tlon of which into English is attached for your ready reference), dated as it is, still
reflects some inconclusive levels in the results of the various chemical tests shown,
Undoubtedly these have by now been lowered to completely safe levels, since
ORPHONE/1 apparently felt well enough to travel to France, but the Medical Staff

id be advisable for CRPHONE/! to undergo another |
include the following:

We assume QRPHONE/1 has censulted his own physician on his return to the
but the Medieal Staff has pointed out that clinical examination alone is not always
sufficient to determine complete recovery from

Attachment: (continued)
Hospital report

Distribution:
2 - Chief, LCPIPIT /Lendon w/att
1 - COS, London w/o/att

CS COPY

‘CROSS REFEREE TO, SePaTON oe AD mae
OEPW - 405

Free >

1 - EUR/BC/UK
1 - RID - files “
2 - CAICF

eT a ce
_fealal
DISPATCH

Bea eeceeereerrereetse Sst peectes oeeimegteet er



[| Srna” NBAT swe n 7 SECR

2. Interme of our operational utilization of QRPHONE/1 at this time,
while they reserve finite comment until all the returns (per above) are in, the
Medical Staff did stress the paramount importance Mroper rest and of not over-
taxing the strength of the agent, coupled with his strict adherence to regular,
warm, balanced meals in accordance with the dietary restrictions usually imposed,
and complete absence of alcohol, in o=der to prevent a relapso, So long 28 these
caveats are adhered to, however, there is no reason why he could not make some
more short trips during the next few months, if necessary. However, since he
also has an office to set up and we would like him to concentrate on the Kambona
offer, perhaps it would be a good idea to keep those trips to a minimum for the

time being.

3. The Medical Staff will be glad to review any further chemical tests per
para. 1 above suggestions, or any others which his doctor may have already run,

JULIA R, CONGREVE

EARSIFEATION

WBAT secre

i
i
j
I
i
1



1. At their meeting on 4 September QRPHONE/1 submitted a
report to RODIGAST on his hospitalization for Attached
to his report is a copy of this medical record with results of
written in Serbo-Croatian. We are
forwarding a copy of the report under separate cover for evaluation
by the Medical Staff. We are interested in having as thorough as
possible an evaluation made of QRPHONE/1‘s illness in order that
we may assure ourselves of his condition and the degree to which
he ought to be active in the forthcoming months. We will appre-
ciate it if Headquarters will pursue this matter with the Medical
Staf£ and advise us of its findings and recommendations. . :

2. Also forwarded under separate cover is a memorandum
prepared from RODIGAST's notes which elaborates upon QRPHONE/1's

symptoms.

tn p

CA

Aaron C. LAGINESTRA

Attachment: u/s/c
1 - QRPHONE/1 Report & Medical Record
2 - Memorandum for the Record

Distribution:
ap w/atts

1 - COS/London w/o atts
1 - C/EUR w/o atts



mene ener

eet - “ SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT 1 TO: OEPA-1312

Bour

What I had thought was a touch of |__| and the extrene
fatigue I felt when I returned to London in July proved in
time to have been acute infectious The disease
-- which takes two to three weeks to develop -- was probably

contracted in| At least, I imagine so because ny
principal contact 1 insisted on taking me to
of local restaurants or dubious cleanliness to sample
delicacies.

was diagnosed by a doctor in Komiza, Vis, where
my family had been holidaying since the beginning of July,
and I was hospitalized in the isolation section of Split
Hospital (there is no hospital on Vis) on the 7th of August.

Mv by one finger and
\indicated a fairly severe infection. Treatment

consisted of with massive
doses of vitamins.

I was put on a fat-free diet, which I have been told to
follow for at least six months. Naturally, no alcohol.

On 20 August, I was released from the hospital, mainly be-
cause I was pestering the doctors to let me go. ,2 was
told to have % "absolute rest* for four to six weeks and to
have another blood test hep aie several weeks.

(Attached is the Yugoslav doctor's description of my case
and treatment, with results of al.
It is written Grmattan in Serbo-Croatian.)



pie ek fo) SEPARATE cov”: ATTACHMENT 2 TO:
. OEPA-1312

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD ? September 1968

SUBJECT: GGG Illness

: 1. The following information was obtained by

from @QG~/1 at their meeting on 4 September 1968. It
supplements the report which was submitted by @=@3RMES/] which
deals with his recent hospitalization fo:

2. Toward the end of his trip @S2Gay’1 had been |
feeling rather weak and nauseous, with no appetite. He was
constipated, feverish and had gas pains. These symptoms
persisted and after his return from and on 6 August,
while in Yugoslavia on vacation, @@§3@9@/1 suffered from acute Hoel
gas pains and vomiting. He was taken from Vis, where he was
vacationing, to Split where he was hospitalized. The address
of this hospital is:

Opea Bolnica
@arazni Odjel (Firule)
Split, Yugoslavia

His doctor was Dr. Juraj FILIPOVIC. - eantet

3. @@EEEEEB/1's treatment was free inasmich as he was able
to show his British National Health Card and a reciprocity
agreement exists between Britain and Yugoslavia.

4. @QRgEeB/1 states that at no time did he receive
narcotics nor was he ever unconscious. During his stay in the
hospital a young British youth (Derek WHITTAKER, age 19, from
Shoreham-by-Sea, Surrey) was in his ward suffering from food

TT tS HOT TO BE ROUTED OUTSIZE AZIPENTS DIVISION
G8 STRFZ, CISSENIMATES, RELEYED Te THE FIELD, OR FODM

‘THE BeSis FER C°ERKT: FOLALCT*, WITKGUT PROS
GUOREIATION WITH S:24/65,
ITH 834/65, S is §

do t= 36 6057


ood PAD to Ham aehean f

- DY

4 0€PA- 4310
alt osPacpgye

toy frie ee

ie ape ca

— 7 oe

ip Filial dary fe Fahl PE —

|
|
[a pe i LL



J el awe tty :
inept i) an

|
|



cS |: pees vo , <—s
ele . tT le heeoen, Ha prot nibs Q—
to ie beyens ek a
Waguene Wade mpi =
2G a Siho- ln sorte
Cpe ae Vas een Noms. ¢ oe ,

a Hf? ail SSE e a
| ee a Tons fee teal,

as =e ig 6T -



tirade BnL. Moh 2 Vee on aidan

| sta —



DrAGIOZAS
Lraxtune

Hea OTPUSTENs

co NOT natiateatanbtnten

egos SE ein ger 7. 68. d_ics’
° Prinifen na garesnt f 06. \¢. vit.
ubservatto-ualart3s i ipaeaee
Anomne|st¢oktsmdng.. oks t4. du Jota enjeéa tevistn:
fmpetencu 4 radute. 424 jusncvaljxoat 4
Be t ain revriunta wendy
tenis, utvrdt 36 scultktort.c
hang jetma Epapijiva £5 oho S DoS vingans Sejetljie. te sees
entcli pileze -
Hepitaliy ‘testevs uxrzuju me. eitecenjo jeter,
een e_jaxog SLIDKDETR gO, 08 £2 jUct
ry

eee
Lliniék( Soxtikterus-promretsra wu prvth’ mor tanaycck be ne
wvece U suet ukorticoatzaide Baxen Gega to. eolezt <o :
E5235" aavonja diterusis
Mn Is tokrace, petit aspos tevljer|
ius te 2 De neken "Gedura. Aprovy

i224,
Into jo ‘bits p petreone teotavits Esjedenje u bolnici,yboleentk |
Zeli etp ustytu se us upuis etpusaae

Beyiniex no Wt tbl- “choltn”dran~Zeria Cze4n cx
DSezason sap 47% Anti pernicin anpreccoxta enpt

Aneuria op-Mgestal : my cee e

2oeVITTe68ek20 roboljians ee .
Zotrebae je nastnavsst apcelutns denewiais u tudna4 niest,
atgetaimm 4shr-~a po usast ert ets:
tu" hepa tasters 24.959 39-84,

~00.ljetova .prepomta.st.uastan ” Seyiples amt
const sod Se leDoxasoy tb1/.

eholin crac 3
Bzle2 éano,2x1 oa] eee 5 telje Dementia snes / A
iter tui/tok uztna asmces/= ey
dajerse Vei eset | :
Jez .Farzeved/ |

“rs



rat Ww

SE ren paren pe emo
ny ESLANED TO THE MELD cars
ant, eLLeW UP WI

mayen ge
: tne ot eee



. Crasesan mcesce Tota. Comes.
=) SECRET —=—

(Wheafiled hp = Sa 10

ceeeecseenaseneeessaany

asl] _____
7p B Kuper
D2, :
SECRET @61556Z SEP 68 CITE LCPIPIT ‘S726 {PARFORTH ACTING) :

; ~. DIRECTOR INFO LONDOW i |
|
{
|

ae wea vtoonre GRPHONE : 5Ser 68 NO6805¢

1. QRPHONE/1 MET 4 SEPTEMBER IN BRUSSELS. HE NOW UP

AND ABOUT FOLLOWING HOSPITALIZATION FOR| | BUT MUST

SEVERELY RESTRICT ACTIVITIES FOR AT LEAST NEXT MONTH. SOME

ITEMS OF INTEREST OBTAINED WHICH BEING FORWARDED BY TH.
2. NEXT MEETING SET UP FOR| —_|18 SEPTEMBER.

SECRET
BT

en)

eg cory

SECRET



cr

i :
} ~ SECRET 7
j ies : (wer use or
i STATEMENT of EARNINGS and DEDUCTIONS
bane TURRET RO] Pa PERIOD ENTE AS] ——— ORT CERT
‘_GREKONE 2 802799 | 08/01 08/31; 20| 1242930 [
—_— &
cD EARNINGS SESCRIPTION "7 6
—rareae ornen
| 09) 89000, 2C00] REG SaL Note:

‘THIS FORM IS ISSUED ONLY WHEN AN.
EMPLOYEE ENTERS ON DUTY OR THERE
1S ANY CHANGE IN THE PAY ACCOUNT

DEDUCTIONS DESCRIPTION

LIQ paysT
89000} 2000 | CPA Ex CR
9c00 2000 | FED TAX F

Amendment for additional compensation and tax liability increased from $870.00 to es
$890.00 per month for free compensation at $800.00 per month, effective 1 July 1968. *‘
Actual amount of tax liability increased from 270.00 to $90.00 per month, for the

July 1968 pay period.

SECRET
poss po

ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION DATA REFUND DUE FROM EMPLOYEE.
z z ‘OFeut awt | _R/D AMOUNT CO] NORMAL | OTHER

TREMARKS:



end crust Company of C..+

Or 0130



Sree mares:

Peas





14-0000



see deere

grog



owen
0 Pa

207

sarees
PRES AS



rex?

Chief of Stetion, Lontoa/Lcrie |

Office of Finance

Increased Federal Incom Tex Lishility - QUPHURE-1, Bupliayee Bo. 60279

4.5 AUG 1966

8 sugest 1968

e213

(8 august 1968)

aRgcRE®

3
g
i

ate

Wl wera | Ct

1g AUE 988

c/suR/es



Richard Gibson Reports
International news & features
Opis. Boluica.
fink} ote!

Jum ™ Yet lagu, | £4 abl;
dodoulblls Qrtad bp om igs t

on. tol 4 a) WwW Cree, &
at he r~heand from bre ee 0%
U3 day Mths Mest, a kihunst is Good nd
Beta toon Dr Kl areal oa
& AD Yeeek with Oe dedod, ws buds

ote
“ use on Ky
iboactee Gssof eee 4 Toh. &
me a
Be de BTC EE

Pegi ak fe weet: “ae

eT
eee

amen

I
|
|
t



te Moll hee
Va, foun
Gn Geb a Cnc e tte ecu ni

Recenrecl

oe a

yener Fine Ht in em Robben d,
an wipes Syd Sea es

ee ol :
4
134/92) wodg “4D ae

ae LET A



: ini i: : ees
ign GF Coy) -
pe. Phe "GuaeAiain” Formerly Known |
go “Natun Guanchedn ”
Gusher, CS See/ates, Tne.,
Le. 100-3570¥2
iL » foo 43593 —



a

\ SECRET
(ween FRED WN)
STATEMENT of EARNINGS and DEDUCTIONS

EWPLOVEE WOT-PAY PERIOD GATE] ROLL east Saint aie
LJ 1 o470% 04730 20 1249562 ooo

DESCRIPTION i

REG SAL NOTE: 3
THIS FORM IS ISSUED ONLY WHEN AN

EMPLOYEE ENTERS ON DUTY OR THERE

IS ANY CHANGE IN THE PAY ACCOUNT

DEDUCTIONS | besemrPTION

;

: cPa EX CR q

: FED Tax F H

j

[REMARKs: ee : es : |
| ¥/A 270 from London transferred taxes for the month of Dec., Jan., and Feb, in the 7 ae

{amount of $210.C0. $70.CO for each, payrolled was 46,00 each month, edjustecnt oa
made herewith, Sub-object code changes for Accounting Only. 7 : H a

Hy

QRPHONE/2 i

‘Previous editions obsolete

‘SECRET

ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION DATA
Fe [ores futons |wowas] rare

Sao" 13154 SECRET



CAms secarramar orevemmanon (meee) onsrmory (7) erruen ro____. saan O pure

23 we | rome msm ne, 200-124-156 /2

et lee pea
SECRET U2 cwomce 95195
c 7a 7
LCPIPIT INFO LONDON :
DTDORIC QRPREY QRPHONE |
REF: OEPA 1003, 19 MARCH 68
: MOC APPROVED,
F ieee : END OF MESSAGE

CA/PE:

', CAIBKF.
7°
: ve/ca

" EUR/BC/UI |
}

Chief, CA/CF

SECRET ol

REPRODU-"'OM BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED,



REVISED MEMORANDUM OP ORAL COMMITMENT

:
H
i
j

1. QRPHONE/1 collaborates with WOFIRM as a Field Agent who
provides certain services of a confidential nature. He has :
received a Provisional Cperational Approvai, dated 2B WIRY 66+
Financial aspects of his activity are charged to approved Project
QRPHONE.

i 2. QRPHONE/1's employment by WOFIRM, which began 1 June 1965,
was originally formalized by a Letter of Agreement for a period

of three months, replaced by a Memorandum of Oral Commitment dated
1 September 1965. Under this MOC, which remains in effect (as
amended) since that date, ORPHONE/1's employment continues on a
month-to-month basis. It can be terminated by either party on a
30-day notice.

3. QRPHONE/1 receives the following financial entitlements:

“tax-free” income of $800 per month (this figure
effective 1 July 1967).
NOTE: The actual breakdown of QRPHONE/1's finances
as carried on WOFIRM's books is $800 monthly salary
and $70 per month tax supplement withheld at Head-~
quarters to discharge QRPHONE/1's WOLADY tax
obligation. These taxes are remitted through the
Covert Tax Committee. This procedure was devised
to honor the original "tax free” commitment made
at the time of his recruitment and at the same
- +» time to fulfill the requirement that all WOLADY
citizens pay taxes on funds received from LNFORT.

i
{
|
a. Compensation so computed as to give QRPHONE/] a |
i

b. Reimbursement for operational expenses and travel
unless these are paid by other sources in which
case WOPIRM will offset such outside reimbursement |
against WOFIRM financial obligations to QRPHONE/1... ° ae
Since security considerations preclude processing
of detailed accountings for miscellaneous opera-
tional expenses, and as an added inducement to
QRPHONE/1 in connection with his obtaining certain
confidential information of interest to WOFIRM, a
small operational payment, as authorized by Chief,
LCPIPIT will be made to QRPHONE/1 for each day
during which he is required to be absent from his
home on confidential business.

NOTE: Write-off of the funds passed to QRPHONE/1
is to be effected on the basis of the procedure
approved by Chief, LCPIPIT and COS/London, a copy ... .
‘of which is attached. This procedure is authorized
in view of the security considerations applicable
to QRPHONE/1 and the need to limit the knowledge
peta _ @€ this operation within WOMACE.

‘es QRPHONE/1 is authorized to receive a non-accountable
office allowance of $100 per month.

5 eae


mutually agreed upon for the relocation of himself and his
family to a new residence if such relocation is considered
desirable by him and WOPIRM. NOTE: ‘This provision was included
i in ORSHONE/I's eriginal Larter ef Agreement and was retained in

| 4. QRPHONE/1 will be compensated by WOPIRM in an amount.

this MOC since it may be operationally desirable for QRPHONE/1
H to accept employment with a target organization based elsewhere.

cial entitlements to be funded to him by ORPURE, which has also
agreed to repatriate ORPHONE/1 to WOLADY. This has been done

for operational reasons to enable QRPHONE/1 to qualify for
foreign residence. Should QRPURE be obliged to honor this commit-
ment, WOFIRM will guarantee this QRPURE commitment and will
reimburse QRPURE for any costs incurred.

| 5. WOFIRM has arranged for a portion of QRPHONE/I's finan-
y

6. LCPIPIT is authorized to approve purchase by QRPHONE/1
of certain items of operational equipment which are to be non-
accountable and which shall be charged against the operational
expense category of approved Project QRPHONE.

7. QRPHONE/1 signed a separate Secrecy Agreement (in true
name) at the time of his original recruitment. He is aware that
its provisions are still in effect.

: 8. OQRPHONE/1 is aware that he may be required, from time
to time, to undertake an SGSWIRL.

. 9. QRPHONE/1 is aware of all provisions of the Memorandum
_-o£ Oral Commitment with the exceptions of paragraph 6, which
describes an internal WOFIRM procedure; certain aspects of para-
graph 3a--specifically that WOPIRM is paying LNFORT taxes in
his behalf; and certain aspects of paragraph 3b--specifically
the procedure for write-off of funds since this is an internal
WOPIRM procedure.

SIGNED:

Aaron C. LAGINE:!
Case Officer

Male

seaeeteenenaneeeteeeeerarreeeete
Adrian B. MASLOTT
Chief, LCPIPIT

giao

EAT



wacrrom (77)

TOTAL cones:

emo:
om: CA/CF
mr F787

oa 23 Apr.GB

CARUE SECRETARIAT ClOLeMeMATION

{etre}
as sar
SECRET Uist? euvcoee 95095
o T q qV,
LCPIPIT INFO LONDON
DTDORIC QRPREY QRPHONE
REF; OEPA 1003, 19 MARCH 68
MOC APPROVED,
END OF MESSAGE .

. CA/PERS
-  CA/BE :

DC /cA Ka

EUR/BC/UK

_COOMMATHS OFRCEES

emus ornczn Sa eee rrmmencarone
L_secerr | PE] =e

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1$ PROHIBITED. orm



co

[SECRET

23 April 1568

MEMORANDUM FOR; C/CA/SG
VIA: DC/CA
SUBJECT: QRPHONE/1 Memorandum of Orel Commitment

1, Forwarded herewith is the original revised MOC for QRPHONE/1,
submitted by LCPIPIT under OEPA - 1003, dated 19 March 1968, The
flold requests notification of approval.

2. The MOC appears to cover adequately all pointe previously at
fesue; it is therefore requested that, subject to DC/CA approval and
CA/PERS and CA/B&F concurrence, the attached outgoing cable to
LCPIPIT sigalfying this approval be coordinated and released.

3. It te aleo req-zested that the MOC be further transmitted to the -
Office of Finance, via appropriate administrative procedures.

—

Attachments: 2
MOC for QRPHONE/1
Cable to field

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
2-CA/ICR~

ao\



parent eet a

bh Boss 08 aga —_——__
aa

en is tage eect (Ol seg ELS
7 Udy § ipeeng flana

fan tne ia gt eee — |
( eas qty ae

eh he fom joctg fad) — -

Lod Fala Qi tette 7

eo honed brid peo nan I



BRITISH VISA GRANTED

On 10 April 68, I vas finally granted a British visa,
without restrictions, valid until 15 Feb. 1969. Ho
questions vere asked when I went to the Home Office
to get the visa.

My Home Office file number is: @ 110880.

Prom the Metropolitan Police, I received Aliens Registration
lists me as correspondent for

I was told by the police that I could apply within a year
to have the registration requirement waivered because I
married to a British subject. Moreover, I am feee to .
B. apy sort of employment or open a business without
reatrictiony or having to request permission from the
Rinistry of Labour.

i



BEd

HOME OFFICE

Princetoa House, 271 High Holborn, Lonpox W.C.1
Telegrams: dep, London WO4
Tdephone 01-405 4321
Telex 261867

fe pores ete eet ee 10-48

17-5 GI
Passport Particulars:

Od. Pes pork po. tet ee 112-6

‘This is to certify that the bearer of this ietter, named

above, does not require to obtain pernission of the
Ministry of Lebour or of the Home Office before taxing

+ exployment, either paid or unpaid, in Creat Britain.

: > (Por work in Northern Ireland the Ministry of Labour end

fe * Nations] Insurance for Northern Ireland should be
consulted.) The bearer is free, 20 far as the Home Office
is concerned, to set up in business, subject to any
statutory laws and regulations governing the businesovor
professions] activities in which he/Sie nay be interested.

rsceee _ ‘This letter should be retained for production to the
‘ Ministry of Labour or other authority if required.

for Under Secretary of State i

cape. a



s oe fort
INLAND REVENUB MONOLOGUE (required)

Until April of this year (1968), I lived mainly on assistance
from my wife's family and occasional freelance journaliss
outside Britain. Also, I had some savings and investzents
in America and Switzerland to draw upon, My brother-in-

law, Gordon Kaye, purchased a house at 32 Hartewood Road,
Stamford Brook, London, W.12 for us — the price of the
house being considered a loan to be repaid over the years

as is possible, My children's school fees were paid by
convenant by ay brother~in-lav, as well as a grant in
convenant to my youngest daughters

I was not a legal resident of the U.K. until 8 April
1968, and on that date I began officially my dutie
a= Nvaraane Renvasantative ana Correspondent for

| with a salary of 5500

per month.

oe



ie ca 1072.|
Hy - Hy brother-in-law askod me to sen@ him from abroad the following
ldtter, which I mailed on 16 April 68 from Rotterdan,

TF —

i i :
Pi svti restr veert og
: Jeffreys, Henry Ran Rudolph & Marks
' Lee Rouse
H Londong Wall, E.C.2
i
! Dear Sirs, |
In response to the Inspector's request, I confirm
that I have suxx authorized my wife, Mrs. ", to
apply for Monique's income repayment for 1967. And I
also confirm that she has no other incomex other than t
the EMK¥ Covenant for that year.
| : Yours faithfully,
: :

rey ae ee



PROCESSING ACTION.

'
'
|

Chief, WOLIME {0 wornns owes i

OF Station, London (BY GUAT Des :

Chief, EUR Division a S06 wots

> | |
|
H
!
|
i
‘|

Chief, LCPIPIT/London _ [meron
DrDoar ational
QRPHONE/Memorandum of Oral Cownaitment:
ica RoR ERS
References: A. OEFW-160, dated 18 October 1967
B. OEPA-240, dated 21 September 1967

1. Porwarded under separate cover is a revised Memorandum of
Oral Commitment covering the WOFIRH relationship with QRPHONE/1.
This revision reflects most of the suggestions made in Reference A.

2. As said in Reference B, QRPHOHE/1 does not fall into the
category of WOPIRM asset usually handled by LCPIPIT. ‘his fact A
plas the very stringent security considerations which mist apply i ’
to this operation dictate that certain proced:re be followed in” aaa
ORPHOSIR/1's case. Handling of this case has been facilitated by
Heaéquarters‘ understanding and approval of the need for such care.

3. We request that this revised Memorandum of Oral Commitment
be approved, and that we be so notified.

Baron C. LAGINESTRA

Attachment: u/s/e
Memorandan -

i

Distribution: i
3 - C/wOLIME w/att H

1 - COS/London w/o att i

1 - C/euR w/o att {

[papaTor Srect aD MUR

_- GkGlowe

ORPA-1003 19 March 1968
GASTON z Fil ees

SECRET/SRYBAT

reo


REVISED MEMOPANDUM OF ORAL COYMITMENT

2. YRPHONE/1 collaborates with WOPT?!! as a Pield Agent who
provides certain services of a confidential nature. fe has
received a Provisional Operational Approval, dated ZA MAY 66.
Financial aspects of his activity are charged to approved Project
QRPHONE.

2. QRPHONE/1's employment by WOFIRM, which began 1 June 1965,
was originally formalized by a Letter of Agreement for a period
of three months, replaced by a Memorandum of Oral Commitment dated :
1 September 1965. Under this MOC, which remains in effect (as
amended) since that date, QRPHONE/1's employment continues on a
month-to-month basis. It can be terminated by either party on a
30-day notice.

3. QRPHONE/1 receives the following financial entitlements:

a. Compensation so computed as to give QRPHONF/1 a
“tax-free” income of $800 per month (this figure
effective 1 July 1967).

NOTE: The actuai breakdown of QRPHONE/1's finances
as carried on WOPIRM's books is $800 monthly salary
and $70 per month tax supplement withheld at Head-
quarters to discharge QRPHOND/1's WOLADY tax
obligation. These taxes are remitted through the
Covert Tax Committee. This procedure was devised
to honor the original “tax free" commitment made
at the time of his recruitment and at the same

_ time to fulfill the requirement that all WOLADY
citizens pay taxes on funds received from LNFORT.

nD

b. Reimbursement for operational expenses and travel
unless these are paid by other sources in which
case WOFIRM will offset such outside reimbursement
against WOFIRM financial obligations to QRPHONE/1.
Since security considerations preclude processing
of detailed accountings for miscellaneous opera-
tional expenses, and as an added inducement to
QRPHONE/1 in connection with his obtaining certain

fata confidential information of interest to WOFIRM, a
small operational payment, as authorized by Chief,
LCPIPIT will be made to QRPHONE/1 for each day
during which he is required to be absent from his
home on confidential business.

NOTE: Write-off of the funds passed to QRPHONE/1
is to be effected on the basis of the procedure
approved by Chief, LCPIPIT and COS/London, a copy
of which is attached. This procedure is authorized

|. an view of the security considerations applicable
to QRPHONE/1 and the need to limit the knowledge
of this operation within WOMACE.

panera yp teamtene sleeinnes « ste creer een:

sees tesa 2

: QRPHONE/1 is authorized to receive a non-accountable
eres office allowance of $100 per month. S



4. QRPHONE/1 will be compensated by WOPIRM in an amount
mutually agreed upon for the relocation of himself and his
family to a new residence if such relocation is considered
desirable by him and WOPIRM. NOTE: This provision was included
in QRPHONE/1's original Letter of Agreement and was retained in
Uris HCC since it may pe operationally desirable for QRPHONE/L
to accept employment with a target organization based elsewhere.

5- WOFIRM has arranged for a portion of QRPHONE/)'s finan-
cial entitlements to be funded to him by QRPURE, which has also
agreed to repatriate QRPHONE/1 to WOLADY. This has been done
for operational reasons to enable QRPHONE/1 to qualify for
foreign residence. Should QRPURE be obliged to honor this comnit-
ment, WOFIRM will guarantee this ORPURE commitment and will
reimburse QRPURE for any costs incurred.

6. LCPIPIT is authorized to approve purchase by ORPHONE/1
of certzin items of operational equipment which are to be non-
accountable and which sha)) he charned against the operational
expense category of approved Project ORPHONE.

7. QRPHONE/1 signed a separate Secrecy Agreement (in trué
name) at the time of his original recruitment. He is aware that
its provisions are still in effect.

8. QRPHONE/1 is aware that he may be required, from time®
to time, to undertake an SGSWIRL. 3

9. QRPHONE/1 is aware of all provisions of the Memorandum
- of Oral Commitment with the exceptions of paragraph 6, which
describes an internal WOPIRM procedure; certain aspects of para-—
graph 3a--specifically that WOFIRM is paying LNFORT taxes in
his behalf; and certain aspects of paragraph 3b--specifically
the procedure for write-off of funds since this is an.internal
WOPIRM procedure.

Aaron C. LAGINEZFRA
Case Officer

Dial

Adrian B. MASLOTT : Date
Chief, LCPIPIT ee 5



(=) tin. SECRET  - ~~

MEMCRANDUM POR THE RECORD

)

Bie Be

SUBJECT: QRPHONE/1 FINANCES

i. This memorandum outlines a new procedure Which is to be
oliowd in the handling of the operational costs of field agent
HON /1. This new procedure is being instituted in order to
«<rance the security and compartmentation of the handling of the
sdaanistrative aspect of this project and parallels revisions in
-w handling of operational traffic. The new procedure which is
23 ussed below is in accordance with accepted field procedures.

&- Currently ORPHONE/1 receives advances and accounts for
i.23e #ith detailed statements of expenses accompanied by true
..me xzeceipts, etc. These accountings and the accompanying

--».pts have been maintained in the LCPIPIT files. This systen
= <0 be changed. Henceforth monies for operational expenses

-+= be given to QRPHONE/1 by his handler (Career Agent Rufus P.
<0DZGAST) ard will be carried on RODIGAST's accountings as oper~:
tional expenses supported by receipts from QRPHONE/1 ackn-wl-
edging reccipt of the funds. This RODIGAST accounting and the
QRPHONE/1 receipt will be used for write-off of the funds againsz
approved project QRPHONE. No detailed accountings and no
receipts carrying QRPHONE/1's truce name are to be maintained ian
the LCPIPIT/Admin files.

3. It will be the responsibility of Chief, LCPIPIT and the
. Soject case officer to ensure that QRPHONE/1 is supplied with
<¢2 Zunds necessary for the furtherance of the operation and to
Bure that these amounts are carefully controlled to avoid over=
jfment. In discharging thas responsibility the Chief, LCPIPIT.:
may ceyuire gaiouas, 2 co ivemaze che wase0Ub efpoiser co Se :
ofwverced by the payments.

AP2XOVED:

Dhicbel- : tf- Ye 6 Z

Chief, LCPIPIT Date
Paes

‘pears CEA EV

Chief of Station, London Date

“+ SECRET

ee
ny eee


: at ly os Canol)
Re: Richad- Themace a

|
|
bo tas ho Beep ir gpcen



1 £ ane PROCESSING ACTION
SECRET/RYBAT

"oe Ss: ‘tion, Bern
Chief of Station, London; Chief of Base;
Geneva; Chief, EUR Division

Chief, LeprPit/London ///?)
DTDORIC/MHPROBE/Operati onal
QRPHONE/Switzerland
aca ARGO EPCS
References: A. GENEVA-2464
B. ICPIPIT-1711

1. We are forwarding under separate cover a copy of
QRPHONE/1's report on his expulsion from Switzerland. In it
QRPEONE/1 concludes that the Swiss Border Police mist have
learned of his planned arrival through a phone tap on a call
he made to Lausanne from Italy on the 18th of January.

2. Regarding QRPHONE/1's statement in paragraph two of
his report concerning his having visited Switzerland many times ~
since 1963, please see PALP-4738 of 1 October 1965. a

3. QRPHONE/1 has been instructed not to pursue any Eurther
protests with the authorities (either Swiss or American) over
this matter.

Ack

Aaron C. LAGINESTRA

Attachment: u/s/c
Report

‘ibution:
- C/NOLIPE w/att
2 - COS/Bern w/att
1 - COS/London w/o att
1 = C/EUR w/o att eve} aed

1 - coB/Geneva w/att aul



t
}
|
ra
t
1
i

Frederick Seerxkt: Steiner, in Berne. Actually, I had told her to shone ¥

ay PREDEORSD OOO BETS LE RPO,

#07028

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO:
OEPA-892

ARREST AND EXPULSION FROM SWITZERLAND
Brisue, 20 Jan. 1968.

The Milan-Geneva TEE reached the Swiss border at Brigue at
about 1030. It was evident that the Border Police were ex-
pectincs me -- the usual lone civilian inspector of passports
was accompanied by a uniformed policezan. I was taken, with
baggage, to the station imicration office. My wife went with
me, dut was apparently not covered by the ban on me. en the
official in charge of the office phoned Lausanne and Berne, he
was informed that I was to be expelled 1 diately and that they
did not want to interrogate me.

Great effort was made by the official in charge of the office
to be polite, especially shen I made a rather vigorous protest
at the expulsion, claiming that I had never been informed of
the ban on my entry in Switzerland, said to date fron 16 Dec.- ~~
1963, and that, in any case, I had visited Switzerland on
numerous occasions since 1963 withtutinterference. Moreover,

I was a professional journalist accredited to the United Nations
and was indeed on my way to Geneva to visit the U.N. Office
there, I said. T& official seemed somewhat baf by this,
because he had been informed I was en route to Lausanne, but I
shoved ty tickets valid to Geneva. Nevertheless, with the
Sreatest of apologics, I was escorted -- this. time by a plain-
clothesmen.-- to a train back to Italy at 1150. My we colh have
Stapd ia Sateered oe Parkes Rey ds velomn WT mee

During my detention, my wife phoned Gilbert Etienne in Lausomne,
inforzing him of the situation, the Associated Press office in
Geneva (speaking to a Mr. Atkins) and the U.S. Press Attaché,

as many wire services as possible, but she assumed I also wanted |
to get the Press Attaché to protest on my behalf. In any case,
the shertness of time between trains prevented her from making
more calls.

When given the attached formal notice of the travel ban by the
Swiss official, I refused his request that I sign it and warned
that the expulsion was 2 violation of Swiss agreements concerning
the freecom of access to the U.N. Office in Geneva which I fully
intended to protest formally and bring to world attention.

~“
Later, from Verona, I spoke myself ferx with Gilbert Etienne, who
was convinced -- quite correctly, I believe -- that his phone is
tapped_end_that my errival wes isamed comnmnicated to the Swiss
Fe eral Police through a phone conversation I had with Etienne fron

eee eee



pilots 7 ~ ~

swiss explusion - 2 last

Milan on 1S Jn: (hy tretrn as made in ‘fiilan, not
London.) I also spoke with 4 a in Geneva, who told ce
he had filed ea story after cy wife's eatl about an American

! Necro fsournalist being refvsed entry into Switzerland. He asked
for more backcround on me, claiming that New Yori had expressed
interest in developments. Atzins believed that I coule get the
ban lifted by protesting to the Swiss Press Attaché in London as
a professional rcwsman. He said he believed Swiss authorities
were rather jumpy about "suspicious" individuals entering the
country since the large 3iafran \ shipments of Nigerian currency
to Zurich earlier in January. Whatever the real reason,
althoush I do resent not being able to talk with Etienne -- I
was counting on hin to reestablish links with Nils Andersson

in Albania and to give re a picture of the altered situation
amonc pro-Chinese Con=unist parties in Western Europe since the
latest split from Jacaues Srippa's party in Belgium ied I think
the expulsion {s a most useful incident to prove that I am indeed
a good revolutionary and I intend to exploit it as fully as
possible, within reason. That is, no overt diatribes against
‘how the Man operates in Switzerland," say in the Los Angeles
Herald Dispatch, but to infors as many people on the Left as
possible of the incident and let them draw their orn conclusions.

Michzel Bakafa/Petras Deftez, who was expecting me in Geneva for
ao an interview on 22 Jan. was informed by a wire from Verona that
: force majeure prevented te from keeping the appointment and that
I would be writing him when I returned to London.


a

Poste 3900 Brig-Bhf. ,le 20.1.1968.

An Herrn

” GIBSON Richard Thomas

nee Bri g - Bahnhof

ha

tifikation einer Verfiigung der Zidg. Bundesanwaltschaft.

|

uae

Wir bringen Ihnen zur Kenntnis, dass

ie im Schweiz. Polizeianzeiger des Jahres 1963 unter
nd. ( Art. 33 667/196 )

oreisesperre giltig ausgeschrieben si:

: ie Verfiigung wurde durch die
dg. Bundesanwaltechaft am 16.12.1963 getroffen.

uert unbestimmte Zeit.

fon der Verfiigung Kenntnis genommen: -Zugestellt durch:

IBSON Richard Thouas
des Clarence und der Alice
Thomas, ged. 13.5.1931

_ Los Angeles/Amerikaner.



cag

SEO nema enone ueenee ts in meemennieh cam
i

~ =
i ws

- 1

4
t

! +t
ie
reas
+

SECRET f
en2799 40028 an
| 1969 EARNINGS ‘ef : :
TAX WAH Fite WH STA StAX WH TAX GROSS
696367200 945250:

\

Paid Gross by Cover
No Covert fsgern Rea
Flat Rate Tax

SECRET



weg

be ~
: egcneT

20 December 1967

(C-2929)

Murray

MEMORANDUM FOR: CA/CF
SUBJECT: Accountings from QRPHONE/1 ey

Enclosed in the attached sealed envelope are copies

hee f -

‘Thomas K. craigs,
Chief,

Central Cover Staff

Nonofficial Cover Branch

of accountings from QRPHONE/1.

Attachments: One

ic 30besa—



: Pe ehseda Gg. beent
| Op eHimded lea =

American National Bank |,”
ead Trust Company of Chicago Bh

i
| i
I |
{
i

494651067
Stare gs4-uaso 428166
cuncauos ui pooas

C-3/ Coe

American National
and Trust Company of Cuca

4S zj
gS
#00105 7 sor ioStehas

—
t
a



the para

ith

a Letter

ndum of

tOC, which remaiaa
plerment centi:

Tt con ve terminated by either party en 20-day

H
i
}
| :
: 4 a
| i
s 4
1
ea
eck to the rare ‘i H
eo rretect: eens
: i
pa ete
=
eau
atch, CREMOMK/1s initial
: 1065 date :
2 i ip with

(coatinued)

pe

= CAIBEF :
= CA/Personnel A
- GICAISG
EUR/BC/UK
-CAICE.

+ RID-EHles

. !
| i RET 7
| CiCA

HOF

ee ee

: | TSE 53 we sncwovs coon.

ro 18 ae

[ DISPATC!



eo

Saat sec

me

A wonld olen ri
Bowe hens abta to meet

Aa the a!

—

Sore euegestions, please recebmit aa ameaded

racneus covion,

\
L

COETAS

4

aDoR

ATCT

LET



26 September 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: CCS/NC

SUBJECT: ORPURE/QREBONY /1 Relationship 1

1, This will confirm our conversation of 18 September 1967, in
which we discussed CREBONY /1's plan to vieit CRPURE some time
during the week of 25 September 1967, and you agreed to give CRPURE/2
prior warning of this visit. In accordance with the same conversation
CREBONY /1 wae briefed that his visit should be mainly a question of <4
touching base with ORPURE, maybe a friendly luncheon with CRPURE/2
<- but that no substantive discussions affecting their ostensible rela-
tionship (i.e., amount of money, amount of QREBONY/1 production for”
CRPURE, etc.) were to taka place. You were to brief GRPURE/2 {
along the same lines, and also to indicate to him that, contrary an .

original thinking, we would now like to have QREBONY/I givens
whenever CRPURF /2 feels

can do so. ‘

2, In addition to the above, we would appreciate it Lf you would
take up with QRPURE/2 (and/or ORPURE/1, a2 appropriate) the pos-
afbility of increasing the amount of money funded to CREBONY/1 via
ORPURE, As indicated to you, we would like to increase the current
$100.00 montbly to $300, 00 monthly, but would like your careful { :
examination with QRPURE principal(s) that this amount is not exces- qe
sive either in terme of their willingness to handle or in terms of :
QRPURE's ostensible ability to cover. .

3._ Please also mention to CRPURE /2 our desire to have QREBONY/1
and our thought of perhaps including

QRPURE (along with other as a name on the door or on
bis letterhead. Would QRPURE/2 (or CRPURE/1) have say objections?
tions if any of the other names are of more

It would not be operationally feasible or desir-
able to let him know in advance which these would be, but since both



ant
iitpnt

ORPURE's have been briefed carefully as to QREBONY/1's| |
aura, presumably they would have a good ides as to'the kind of

these might be.

4. For operational reasons, we would prefer that the arrange-
mente indicated in paras 2 and 3 above not be brosched until after
QREDONY/1's departure from the United States, some time in mid-
October. We will advise you of hie departure so that you can make the
necessary arrangements thereafter at your convenience.

Chief, CA/CF

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Add-vessee - Attn: J. Murray
2-CAICF ¥
Routed thru DC/CA



Lea
LCPIPIT INFO LONDON

CoPt
RBTBORIC amma Our Com To KEL WAY,

CITE DIRECTOR,

mrid is ditz | 750

RYBAT DTDORIC QREBONY : :

IT HAS BEEN DECIDED TO CHANGE THE QREBONY CRYPT TO IDEN A THIS,
: NEW CRYPT WILL BE USED HENCEFORTH, : ‘

2. TO ASSIST IN EASIER COMMUNICATION IN AN AREA OF HIGH SENSI-
TIVITY, THE Ft ‘OLLOWING ADDITIONAL CRYPTS HAVE BEEN ASSIGNED:

“ QRPEONY (IDEN B); AND QRPETTY (DEN ©), i “

3. IN FUTURE, PLS SEPARATE ALL QREBONY/I PERSONAL CORRES-

PONDENCE, EXCISE QREBONY/1 NAME, AND FORWARD BY RYBAT CHANNE]

END OF MESSAGE

c1/ors/p0-= Obenw |

EUR/BC/UK_.#. wa

isan

‘eee Chief, CA/CF
— “RAT =a
oe " REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE SUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED, rqa a

Seay i —__ 2 06052,

1, FOR SECURITY REASONS RELATING TO ITS ACTUAL DESCRIPTIVENESS,

re |

}
H
if
u



wi
LCPIPIT INFO LONDON

RYBAT DTDORIC QREBONY

E reF: ¢4750

IDEN A - QRPHONE/1

IDEN B - ROBERT F, WILLIAMS - 201-108746
IDEN C { + 201-248083

END OF MESSAGE

Chief,

cence a ee

CAICF

aL



Chief, LCPIPIT/London

jameeT DTDORIC/Administrative

GREBOWY/ 1 Employment Agreenent.

‘ACTION REQUIRED - REF

1. QREBONY/1 was recruited by WOFACT on 3 June 1965. This
recruitment was performed by an officer from WOMUSE/ICG since

GREBOHY/1 (then known as| 1) was viewed as a
° GREBONY/1 has per-

formed well in a difficult and dangerous environment. He is a
clandestine agent operating anti-WOLADY

and of priority interest. The adainistration of VREBOSY/1 requires
special care since, by the very nature of his role, he is not
typical of the average LCPIPIT asset.

2. CREBONY/1's initial employment was by Letter of Agreement
for a period of three nonths. This Letter of Agreement expired va
1 September 1965 and was replaced by a Memorandum of Oral Cosmitment ;
dated the sane day. This oral employment agrecment remains in.

effect at this date--soue two years later—-, but has been amended
to adjust compensation. Certain inaccuracies in the original

MOC have also been corrected subsequent to its preparation. Given
the sensitive nature of CREBONY/l‘s relationship with WOPACP it

is sometimes difficult to adapt the operational reaiities of his
situation to the adninistrative requirements of WOPACT. However,
with great understanding at home and in the field, we have reached
@ very manageable situation.

3. In order to codify the entitlements and procedures applicable
to QREBONY/1's employment the undersigned has prepared the attached =

revision of the HOC padervhich CREBONY/1 is employed. It is requested]

that BUS approve this revised KOC and notify LCPIPIT of approval by
1S October.

Attachment: BW
noc

Distribution:
3 - C/WOvIEW w/att Br
1 ~ C0S/London (Support)

|
£
}
t

,
i
i
{
|



ro

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

rors:

Pinson awit waTivit

‘ovance cory

Qeseee

(& Rw copy

SECRET 3616392 CiTe LCPIPIL 1286

DIRECTCR INFO: LONDON

: RYBAT DTDsa BenY “tHPR OBE - *
ae 1, BELIEVE QRERONY/1 SHOULD MEET WITH QR PHRE

IN ORNER HISCLSS His i) ws eyor nt 10H AND
fa
fw HEEKS ORESONY/T HAS
ILL BEING SED BY ORPHRE BUT

IMPROVEMENT, IY LaST F

NOTICED
WITHOUT Hi3 «| THIS “4Y INDICATE SOME POLITICAL

SENSITIVITY GN PART OF QHPURS, WHICH WOULD BE iNDER-
STANOSRLE, ROWEVER THiS “AY NOT 8% THE Case aT ALL.
THUS FINSD ORDER GF BuSINESS SHOLLD SE FOR Has TO

‘PE MIND PE GRERONY/!, IF THIS

DETERMIFE STATE OF
ii, WITH HOFRCTER PRESENT, WOLD BE

HELPFUL in SGLADIFYINS RELGTIONSHIP es

Ze SHOULD Sifual iGk BE PROFIT IOUS WE wOILD
APPRECJGTE HQS DISCUSS Twe. ITEMS WITH QRPURE ON AN
m pRingice BaSiS. FIRST, iT WOULD RE DESIRABLE TO
OF THE PAYMENTS FROM QRPURE TO

SRE 1S SUFFICIENTLY

INCREASE THE SY:

CREBONY I. =GREBENT I'S.



> foie aN

: oo
Park 2 LOPIPIT 12s6seEceeT 88
VELL ESTABLISHED TO SUPPNOT, AND INDEED TO REQUIRE,

AN ANNUAL SALAKY FROM GRPIRE OF AT LEAST $3-4,988,

WHILE WE UNSURE OF G2PIRE’S STELINGS THIS SUBJECT IT
OR IMPRESSION HE MOST ACCOMMODATING AND WOULD UNDER-
STAND THAT INCREASE WOULD ENHANCE QREBONY/I°S |e)

SECONDLY, WE ARE DISCHUSS{NG THE IDEA OF GREBONY/1°S

THIS WOULD FACILITATE HiS
OPERATIONS BY GETTING HIM OUT OF HIS HOUSE. IT WOULD

ALSO BE A CONVENIENT

AnD IF COST FACTOR CAN BE KEPT MIWiMAaL, EWTIRELY
[ve DESIRE OBTAIN GRPIRE
REQCTCON TO IDEA OF QREBONY/I MAUTNS| ITH
CRPIRE| EITHER ALONE OF IN TANDEM WITH QREBONY/1
41.59 COULD GRPURE ACTUALLY

PASS THE FUNDS FOR THE Tf THE FORM OF 4 MONTHLY
CHECK OR SOME CTHER ARRANGEMENT? REALIZE THAT

PLUS SALARY RAISE TOGETHER REPRESENT CONSIDERABLE

INCREASE IN GRPURE INPHT TO GREBONY/I1 AND WE NOT NOW
IN POSITIGN TO ASSESS QPIRE WILLINGNESS DO SO,

aoa sae



CRET

LCPIPIT {286 SE

PAGE 3

NEVERTHELESS WS WOULD APPRECIATE HOS EXPLORING THIS

IF POSSIBLE.

WITH GRPLRE

HQS SHOILD DISCUSS ABOVE QITH RODIGAST VHO

IN POSITION EXPAND ON THIS SUBJECT.

3



Pore cen SECRET
14 September 1967

REVISED MEMORANDUM OF ORAL COMMITMENT
(Revised to include all changes and amendments operative as of
4 September 1967)

1. QREBONY/1 is employed by WOFACT as an independent con-
ia tractor for certain services of a confidential nature. He has
received an Operational Approval, dated - Pinancial
aspects of his ectivity are charged to Project QREBONY.

2. QREBONY/1's employment uncer this agreement commenced
1 September 1965 and continues on a month-to-month basis. It
can be terminated by either party on 30-day notice.

” 3. QREBONY/1 receives the following financial entitlements:

a. Compensation so computed as to give QREBONY/1 a
“tax-free” figure of $800 per month (this figure effective
1 July 1967). NOTE: fhe actual breakdown of QREBONY/i’s ~
finances as carried on WOFACT books is $700 monthly salary:
$100 non-accountable operational allowance; $70 tax supple-
ment withheld at HOS to discharge QREBONY/1's WOLADY tax
obligation. These taxes are remitted through the Covert
‘Tax Committee.

b. Reimbursement for operational expenses and travel,
unless these are reimbursed by other sources in which case
WOPACT will offset such outside reimbursement against WOPACT -
financial obligations to QREBONY/1. Since security considera-
tions generally preclude the detailed accounting for mis-
cellaneous travel expenses, per diem will be paid at the
fate of §20 per day during periods of authorized travel.

This per diem authorization was qualified by a
Kuling of Chief of Station, Paris/LCPIPIT dated 12 July 1965:

roves

“If subject is absent from his home station on
authorized travel for part of one day and returns to
his home station the night of the dame day (i.e. if
no hotel expense is involved in the sense of overnight
accommodations), then he shall be entitled to draw
ce 1/2 of his authorized per diem of $20 per day (i.e. $10)."

s
:
g
i
i
i
i
B

HOE: QREBOHY/1 has a revolving fund (advance). to assist
in meeting operational and travel expenses.

SECRET

Ldn

ie
i



r
&
i
H
i
i
i
i
\
\
i
\

go

aetna SECRET

Sr iy

4. QREBONY/1 will be compensated by WOFACT in an amount
mutually agreed upon for the relocation of himself and his
family to a new residence if such relocation is considered
@esirable by him end WOPACT. NOTE: This provision was included
in QREBORY/1's original Letter of Agreement and was retained in
this MOC since it may be operationally desirable for QREBONY/1
to accept employment with a target organization based elsewhere.

5. LCPIPIT is authorized to approve purchase by QREBONY/1
of certain items of operational equipment which are to be non-
accountable and which shall be charged against the operational
expenses category of the budget attached to the FY 1968 project
renewal.

6. QREBONY/1 signed a separate Secrecy Agreement (in true
neme) at the tise of his original recruitment. He is aware that’
its provisions are still in effect.

7. QREBOMY/1 is aware of all provisions of this Memorandum
of Oral Commitment with the exception of paragraph 5, which *
@escribes an internal WOPACT procedure, and certain aspects of
paragraph 3b, specifically that WOPACT is paying LNFORT taxes
in his behalf. BOTE: He was promised tax-free compensation
in his original recruitment and we have devised the current
procedure to honor this commitment while fulfilling the require-
ment that all WOLADY citizens pay taxes on funds received from
LuFORT.

SIGNED:
AAROH C. LAGINESTRA
Case Officer

REVIEWED AHD APPROVED:



N:
CUISSIFIED HESSAGE rovat_corish

wores Ores Ono

cuassiey to FILE WO.

Goo -FFABw
SECRET 2514592 CITE LCPIPIT 1268 2 eae fn

254074139155 Ry
RYBAT DTDORIC “APR SES BONY IER pteaese,

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO LONDON

REFDIRESTOR-29537

1, WILL CASLE ITINERARY RECUESTED REF AFTER RODIGAST
MEETING with/@Resony/ es AUGUST,

2. APPRECIATE THAT WASHINGTON PROBABLY MOST CONVENIENT
LOCATION FOR HOS MEETINGS WITH QREBONY/RODIGAST BUT BECAUSE
SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS MUST BE PARAMOUNT REQUEST THAT
SESSIONS TAKE PLACE ELSEWHERE, PREFERABLY NEW YORK CITY.
HAVE SO INFORMED RODIGAST.

3. seyority RISKS ATTENDANT OREBONY MEETINGS WITH
WOFACT IN U.S. ARE OF PARTICULAR CONCERN,-- THUS REQUEST
“THAT GREBOWY CONTACTS WITH WOFACT OFFICERS BE HELD ONLY
WHEN ABSOLUTELY REQUIRED AND LIMITED TO ESSENTIAL PARTICI-
PANTS. ALSO BELIEVE IT WILL BE DIFFICULT AND PROBABLY
“INSECURE HAVE QRESONY/1 SET ASIDE BLOCK OF DAYS FOR
MEETINGS ONCE HE APRIVES IW U.S. AND THAT CONTACTS WITH
GREBONY/1 WILL HAVE TO BE AD HOC INSTEAD OF AD SERIATIN.

GREBONY/I WILL DO HiS BEST ADHERE TO-ITINERAR¥, HOWEVER 3F



PAGE 2 LCPIPIT 1263 SECRET SECRET .

WE FEEL IT ONLY REALISTIC TO ASSUME THAT HIS MOVEMENTS AND
SCHEDULE WILL BE CONDITIONED BY DEVELOPMENTS FROM MOMENT

¥E STEPS OFF PLANE.

4, FOR SECURITY AND HANDLING REASONS IT MOST IMPORTANT
FOR RODIGAST TO MEET AND BRIEF EACH WOFACTER IN ADVANCE
-WOFACTERS MEETING WITH QREBSONY/1, NO TRUE WAMES OF

WOFACTERS SHOULD 8£ USED AND SPECIAL CARE SHOULD BE i

TAKEN PROTECT RODIGAST, WHOSE TRUE NAME AND ADDRESS NOT
+ KNOWN SY QREBONY/1, : i

RODIGAST ETA NEW YORK 10 SEPTEMBER, HE WILL PHONE
HOM HE HAS MET MORNING I1 SEPTEMBERZAT ae

EITHER IDEN A OR IDEN B Tn ARRANGE FOR MEETINGS WITH i

WAS OFFICERS, QREBONY/i WILL BE TOLD ARRIVE NEW YORK ieee

15 SEPTEMBER THUS GIVING FI TIME FOR ROCIGAST/ eee

_ HOS PREPARATIONS, REQUEST 7 WILL WISH DIscuSS . _ ae
RODIGAST PERSONAL AND DTOVERTAX OPERATIO“AL NATIERS, ARRANGE a

FOR INTRODUCTICN TO CONGREVE, ourea ais

6 80 FURTHER REGULAR WEETING WITH EITHER OREBONY/1 OR
RODIGAST BEING SCHEDULED ALTHOUGH PROVISIONS FOR EMERGENCY -
- i Ste Nien:
SEETING BEING LAUD: ON. ‘ANY INFO FOR EMERGENCY PASSAGE TO SECRET

|

|

| sh
|=



a

PAGE 3 LCPIPIT 12esSECRET 5fCRET
EITHER MUST REACH LCPIPIT EY CoB 31 AUGUST.

SECRET SECRET

We oth nyren. Sa



Chief, LCPIPIT/London@ GM)
aie DTDORIC/Operational

Q Nw oie

1. LCPIPIT is revising the QREBONY Project files--which
have been rather haphazardly maintained over the past year or
so (much of this time the project was without a case officer).
In our attempts to locate basic project documents we have been
unable to find any copy of the provisions of the Operational
Approval applicable to QREBONY/1. We do have a copy of the - ©
Provisional Approval granted 23 May 1966 forwarded with OFLW -
1591, 7 July 1966. Possibly the relevant document was destroyed
during the reduction of files attendant upon the LCPIPIT move,
or possibly it was inadvertantly not forwarded to LCPIPIT. At
any rate we will appreciate being sent a copy.

2. We would also like to have a sterile version of the
FY 68 Project Renewal as well as all other basic documents
which ought to be available to LCPIPIT.

Distribution:
3 - C/WwovIEw——
1 - COS/London

nin 28 OST

CSPATCH SYMBOL AAD ENE ‘OnTE - :
OEPT - 210 24 August 1967



rs

soceecnncmnnrenes ne atest tery eet nen

bigamy cannes arian anna ee SORES

aaa

~ oo
rer

DISPATCH | ......

SS SSS SS S|
ar
CoS/London, C/Eur Div
aaa
P BM

{London

PROCESSING ACHON,
r-

jesrare Foe ageveg

DTDORIC/O:
OR

We are forwarding USC a copy of a letter sent QREBONY/1
by Jacques Verges' lawyer in which he makes a settlement offer
on behalf of his client. (QREBONY/1 will probably accept this,

after a suitable waiting period, as it offers very telling and
effective ammunition for use in his continuing battle to counter
Verges' allegation that he was a WOFACT agent. It is our reading
at this point that QREBONY/1 has been quite successful in this
effort and that this settlement froin Verges will be the final
triumph in his campaign.

ALK

AARON C. LAGINESTRA

Attachment: USC
Letter

. BSEP 1967

Distribution:

3 - C/WOVIEW w/att USQ— *_
2 - C/Eur Div w/o att oe 7
2 _ cos/tendon w/o att MI- UEEEL

us 3 2

il

CS pnp

feareTON Srucan a) mse
OEPA - 499

CARSIRCATION
SECRET

are
24 August. 1967

garee or basteneannena recuse pasteinsnieer oe en



wae

7 7.4 3 SCHWARTZENBERG

Avoca a ta cove

2% Juillet “i:

Panta, <2 2

onsieur et liadaze GIBSOS
32, Hartswocd woad
Stanferd Brook

London,

Graude Bretzgne

Chers “daze et icnsieur,

12 <

Je nteupresse ie vius faire savoir gue le ccnseil des

duoawes par .azenest reida le 20 juillet 1967 a reteng sa ecapé-
tence confcrnémeat au rapport du Consefller rapp.rteur,

sn tout état de cause, j'uttends votre répense A na
deraibre lettre par inquelle je vous ai trasscis les prepositions de
re,Jeaent 4 Laniable faites par UW, ViRGiS,

oo Je vers reuereie de votre prceisiu“courrier 4 ce
sujet ct,

oleee

C3 Cory
B4I~ 30602

ee RLY H

YCOAAH F° OF PA -¥9¢

|
|
|

}

J

i
i
1
if
ie
{



A sae oe {
a ary nae one enn ean gaa ta
set he 7 we a ener TE
\aue —_— - ott - —— 7
Vous price de ervire, Cher 1g Kadase et Honsietrs a
. Ltexpressios de nes Seutincats ay ents
‘ i :
! | ‘ |
: i
haat yess eeereeenmencs Tae dt H eteueueees _ i
“TH
—
H
:
t
a
;
i



"9. scxwanrzensere

avocay a LA coun

a

fs, rausours uonruam
PARIB-IKe

‘TEL: rarteour e340
ou 024 es-0

3 juillet. 1907

Kons.eur ct sadane GIBSON
30, Stockleich Hall

Prince Albert iioad

oon memoarvous e
LOSON 5.7.6 + Graade Bre.agne

ABB. Gi3S05/ V:

Chers tiadane et .ionsicur,

Je otespresse de vous faire savoir que uattre
VBLGES propose de veus réglerg en dinars alj.riens la uoitié
des sommes denaudées, ce qui ne senile iatsressaat pour vous,
compte tent de l'easeuble des circcastacce.; de cette affaire,
soit + mn

7.500 pour ii, GIBSON d'une pert,et
5.250 i pour ime GIBSON d'autre part
12.7 0 &

total :

Jo deis vous indijuer que cette proposition cst
co 4 poursuiv.nt la Seciéié
des vous cacnerez une cer
, taine sonse dent je ne puis fixer ie ucntant, oais ne teucherez

jamais rien,

En ce qui concerne la lettre digt
mavait eatretenu, cn Confrére ne me répond/sur ceile-ci.
Je pense 9:
de principe et q-e nous pourrioas, dens le cxdre d':a re
tenir une phrase dvbsede sur ce qui a été dit A volre sujet.

ob-

Ba .out état de cause et si nous parvenions 4 un

votre disposition dés votre premier voyzze en Alfrie.

Je crois qu'il serait pré

coafiance,

tonir an pea plus, vcus vouirez bien je vous prie me le iuire

rable

aver de tout perdre. 6S _£S copy ey!

il aty a quacd ne pas lieu d'en faire une question

accord sur cetie base, He VcRGES propose de <enir cette some a

Si toutefois vous penses qe je dois tenter d'ob-

érable cue, d'une nanids
oa d'une autre, cette sume soit renise 4 une personae ayant votry

soioiF, mais j'insiste sur ce point qu'il est q:elq:e fois préfé-,
"attraper «ne proposii.o. 4 la Lallef Plates a“ de ris- j

7 HOORE2 |



| DISPATCH |- secret

Chief of Station, London - for LCPIPIT
* Chtet of Station, London

7

™ Acting Chief VOVIEW

i
|

*HTDORIC/GREBONY LNERGO Report

Transmitted, under separate cover, for your information only, fs a copy

of a LNERGO Report dated August 10, 1967. Pleace note paragraph 4 and

bring to the attention of RODIGAST.

ISABELLE R, PRIAMI

Attachment: 1
LNERGO Report a/s/c

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - COS, LCPIPIT w/att u/ele
1 - COS, London w/att a/s/e

18 Auguet 1967

rar exeea

x a Be0c126-156/3

2 - RID filec w /att
“2. E‘BC/UK w/o /att

f
|
|
|
|
|
| 1-CIACG w/o/att a —
{

2 - CA/CF w/att

Corrs reer SoM aE
AC/CA LB, Hagh Tovar J



14-00000



om

SECRET

Director

#etarel Suress of Eerestigation
Avtentions Hr. & J. razica
ray Deyaty Director far rans

sunsets 0 sycaa’s Brip to tha United states

\. Tria Se to aGvias toa Bureas that tia Agmey pisss te Sore ee
ccm t tre Usited Statas Caring tho month of September 135]. capri rin

Be Ne weake eperoctate the Borcen‘s conresresse in taio aitifrity.
Ws vould aloo weloum say hires Fouinemate wales the Aarasy wold dew
om E0GAR vor eurrictag curing iis stay ia tos United Statoce

(A0/-306 ork

pet aa,

|
i
|
|
i
i



4

‘ CusTluGinG SalTISH LerL2aTlON ¥ROXLEM

Returnins to Lozdon from Stockholn on 10 July, I was egain queried y
by Sritich I=-icration asout cy failure to register «a a percanent
resident. #7 excuse has always been thet I did im fact co to

tne Hone Glfice, but no ection was ever taxen because I rarely
rezained in tse country core than a nonth., Hovever, this tale is
wearing thin ane I fear toat I cay nave puch more serious trouble
in the near future.

It would sees to ne that the best solution night be to becone

the official Lerdon correspondent of KeI or any other outfit

that night have se. I would need a letter to thas effect and

would sequire a notional salary of about $5,000 per year, I believe,
but even this aight raise questions froma the British Inland
Revenues. o

Sone advice on this problen would be appreciated.

: : Me Mat be ot Teest ttooo yewly

pote ce

peace eye
cece

oe

f
aren

Taelee:

selaguece ieee: Amanat teste tann tut

j



FRZ Oe

$ ap 6H Wack)
a iis Le! Kithad Gy ASO.
co J) Bales (78) oS ~73072


pn NYT 16 Tony 64
NEGRO, IN PERING, ‘ser cota tts year Stee ste te Rees a

“HOUSES BRIS = Rae ess PE eng
ites em i

‘Vicious Smear’ of China in rt
- "Forged" Letter Charged
Robert F_ Williams, an Amer-.7¢"'

ean Negro who is now a black *7¢zted in Queens last month obta

see tans neaetg teal
rationalist. spokeemen in Peo S7,Cy-cees of basiog plot “Ent ged Turder plot Fer as tt

See ener

King, has charged thet the Cu- gloves teaders, iar
ban regime of Premier Crusader that ah is ‘not, my policy ror!
Castro has counterfeited a Yams, contended was, mailed RAMS {0 ill condescending]

He Toms.” the statement}

the bogus periodical for “a
ious smear attack” on Com-’
maunist China. tiv
+ In the May issue of the'sub:
rewsletter, The Crusader, whi
has arrived here, Mr.
asserted that the “forged” vez- now “old acd sick end can no}
sion “carries a metered post. cenrrol Bis setopaat
Inark that is avallanie only for soncecoraed underlies wheal
Gata, Grcennant hulk wath tooush seteg whe eae hare)
ing.” He charged that the news ‘ahoxzoned the peopie’s revohi-,

eller way pul oul by “the Cation.”
tan G2", which ke said was’ net RES current Peking)
rated by the Uri asqerted that “Afro-|
is should refuse‘ to
in Vietcam. But it adéed
“tose who are trappod|
cos!d “work among the
educate them to the

3 © E egtatie warns: ranipatone, We are. eecicated|
byt freedom fighters stressing
rene et “Chee steed safdcense, Ov “obec
It ‘uve is to make America arjust)

too Toetoeg was 2nd decent place to live |



DISPATCH |. wecarr fo

oT
Chief, vOvInw | Jeo sorvca tous”
fac conurap eo
Chief, EU; Caief, LEPIPIT inbee nouns
Chief of Strtion, London [v.coce i as

DTDORIC Givin’ | aiWONY JiGUAR LEPACGL
URKEONY's Greup

TREFERENCES

Refs: OEPA £53, 5 Mey 1907
OELA 4737, 10 key 1967

1. Ve nov hive JAGUAR'S coznents on the proposcd
to allow (KEBONY to cxprng Lis ceecss by "reorescat—
ing” socothing - even if only The
letter froma JiGUéR is atti ched.

2. We would observe thet JiGU: a's coceents obviously
mude in a constructive vein. Sinilivly, J.Glsk scecus to tric
a protcctive, | M consiccrs tions
affecting the <2LSORY project. be aiturally vwelcou.e this tcel-
ing on their p.rt, since REBONY continucs to

a z | wand we think thet J.CUrn".
comments sre Gourd, in sulstance. Their fins] at ile
veils, to ssy the levst, the understi ndcble SKOZANGL reluctance

to sce yet eeeeaeenedcne aes

fu1| inupliciticns if s .CL.LY shale
(it would

probrbly te in WOLALY, for tizt mtter, Lut:

here ss a result.)

this over with
peed tht
2 thin. ro

3. We Live vow h:d en opportunity to ts1*
CILIBERTI, LAGINGSTHA and RCDIGAST, sud 211 ire
GQUABORY's trial uzllvon will not Le re-floztcd.
barn is done. If JrGUcR should coue into
Of UREEOWY's Ictter, ind isk us ibout it, we bill icinovicd;
that he wrote it to try vut om < lizited aunbver of irienis
gimed st bis| prelisinary to (he hopcc) i
WILLIAMS’ arrival in| ¥e &xe¢ now eeKely replying to

GUAR that ve ere griteful for their cugent coments, snd thot
will not bel _———sdlunicss there is a significant
change in the (REBONY opcrationil situ.tion such ue to recuire

o

jin which cose we will ugain Seek

their concurrence.

Attachment: b/w :
tuted & oer

ae

Letter - is s
Distribution: E
cs werent 17 -U/TOVI Wi, atta SEO. OD aS

f
B-C/EUh, w/ett
Q-C/LOPIPIT, @.

Bie >
fr June 1967

1 Fae sewsEe

| pou: BelEC



a nn ne ernie |


1

CfeOVIEY h A
Cay ” H

ces/London, C/SOMUSE, C/Fur Div : |
se
Clef, LOPIPIT
BEET LTDOPIC/peratioual
CREBONY/CRESVIV/L and AMSQUAK/2' a Relationship
‘ACTION REQURED - REFERERCES

‘The relationship between ORESONY/2 and AMSQUAW/1 is a particularly
inportint on one from Loth the ;roduction and security points of view, AKSCQUAW/1
has been a prolifie and relfable reporter, erzocially ou items dealing with the
International var Crinos Tribunal, and it will be aighly desirable for her to
continue to serve in this capacity in the forsseable future. It is recognized
that AXS(GAK/1 is not a and that her personal willingmesa to
serve as a of (REMMY/1 Is based upon a complex and inter-
related series of reasons, both personal and ideological, “PEKOUY/1 helped her
ovt of a tight situation land has befriended her since her arrival in
London, For the last several monthe she has heen living at his house, REROAY/2
has a very agreeaule personality and is a genuinely Ifxeable person, At the savo
tina, although she {s not an Ideological rerson, she shares Als
ideological position and she has never queationed Lis explanation =~ that her
reporting {8 for the| | Lastly, we cannot aud have not, overlooked tie

Uikelitood of a ohysical attraction between the two, In the last analysis it is
irpossible for us to state exactly what rotivates her to act as a

inforwant for CRESONY/1,

It is quite possible for the relationship between QREZONY/1 and AASQUAY/1
to change at any tine, Should their relationanip take a tam for the worst it
aight possibly have ese security implications for OREDONY/1. This subject
has Leen discussed at lennth with CFE30#Y/1 and ve acrees that great care must
be taken. jie is careful to) ASCUAG/2 [ |where it would be
[ Thus far this-has veemrelatively
easy, indeed at the Stockholm sessious of the |the absence of any

served to confire in AYSQUAW/1's wind that QRESONY/2 wae
th on the scene, At this point no actual prodles exists, hut both
LEPIPIT and QFESONY/1 are alert to the possibility that one could arise.

2.

Distribution:
3 Chris

2 = C/¥OMUSE

2 + COS/Londen

2 - Cfeur Div

ooo

\ i Cea, filed 30/- 25056



oe

PROCESSING ACTION,

ie JMARKED FOR MOOD

C/#OHUSE, COS/London, C/Eur Div

a
Chief, LCPIPIT

ting with RNSLIVER

‘Transmitted herewith is a brief veo for the record suwarizing a conver=
sation between the undersigned and RYSLIVER in whic the latter recounted his
impressions of a meeting with QPEBONY/1. Transnitted USC is a brief note from
QREBONY/1 to RODIGAST covering tie events of the same evening.

PSP. CILTBERTI

Attachments: H/W & USC
‘As stated meno H1/Wé
Brief note USC

Distribution:
3 = C/wOVIEW w/atts K/w & USC——
2 = C/EOMUSE w/atts H/¥ & USC
2 ~ COS/London w/atts H/W & USC
2 - C/Eur Div w/o atts

8 C2e¥ FRED wacttee/5
Bol 30Go
MAY 13 O57

57

See



SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: CILIBERTI Conversation with RNSLIVER 26 April Concerning His
Meeting with QREBONY/2

2. On 25 April BASTEAR told we that RYSLIVER wes in London and was
Ing to meet with QRESOXY/1. BASTEAR accordingly suggested that
RASLIVER be debriefed by the undersigned the following morning. Accordingly
I wet with PNSLIVER for about one hour, fros which meeting the following
highlights seen worth recording:

+ Ae 1 told SNSLIVER that ve (WOFACT) had been interested in
QREBONY/) at the time that he vas for ning
his dispute with the of Revolution, Jacque Verces, but that we
- had lost tract of him of la Wow that we sre in QREBONY/1's howe
* town, RNSLIVER was tald that we and Headquarters would be interested
in any information on QREBONY/1 which could be reported as a result
of such meetings as RNSLIVER had had with hin,

B, WNSLIVER sald that he had told that he would like
to meet Ibrahin to gain some understanding 0% what was going on in
the particularly as it related to the Sino-
Soviet split. said that he thought that FYSLIVER would do euch
better by talking to QREBONY/1 whoa he. said was one of the
few people around froa vhoal_——|could learn anything.

C, PHSLIVER net QREBCIY/1 at QRESOY/1's house, RVSLIVER did
7 of those who were there to participate
in what RNSLIVER described as a "political bull seasica". He
remenbered only (in addition to himself and QREBOUY/1) of Matthew
Wkoana and a girl from Mexico City named Sucesos, who he sald knew.
@ great deal about guerrilla poings-on in Venezuela and whose
address be said was Calzada, Tacuboya 103, Mexico 18, RNSLIVER
aid that Nkoana said practically nothing throughout the evening,
apparently because he found RNSLIVER's presence odd and unnerving.

D. RUSDIVER vas as {npreseed vith ORCBONY/1 asad
predicted he would be. He described OREBOTY/1 as reaarkably knowl-
edgeable concerning, fa
Western Furope and Africas He sald that CRESNY/I fad described
bis id mentioned that he had
visited that he knew Jacques Cripps, and that he
Intended to visit Stockhole {n connection vith the Pussell Tribunal
and & possible Stockhoin visit by Robert Willfama,

aseatasa] VulgnostngaVgaal peerior

Fy Seen aa gasps uneeeg ee ear eect eee Ee

~meeiiiiatpemnenene den



i
i
i
i.
{
i

a KO
r 7 x

CusTIUInG SalTiSH lbnIG2aTlON yaOXLEM

Returning to London fros on 10 July, I was egain queried
by British Insicration about ny failure to register as a perzanent
resident. Ay excuse has always been that I did in fact co to

the iioze Office, but no action was ever taxen because I rarely
Yezained in tse country more than a nonth. Hovever, this tale is
wearing thin and I fear that I cay have ouch more serious trouble
in the near future.

It would sees to me that the best solution aight be to becone

the official/ br any other outfit

that nignt have se. I would need a letter to thaS effect and

would require a notional salary of about $5,000 per year, I believe,
but even this night raise questions froa the British Inla:

Revenue. 7

Sone advice on this problea would be appreciated.

sé Mot be at Jest tL tooo yearly,



SECRIT

£, BNSLIVER was particularly {mprossed by QREBONY/1's library

of radical books and paaphls RISLIVER turned over to the under=
signed for copying and return a recent issue of Williams" The Crusader,
and 2 copy of QREBONY/1's ow These vere recelved with
feigned interest, although of course we had earller received the saze
Atens frou RODIGAST (already forvarded to Headquarters).

F, MISLIVER did not reaall meeting Hrs. ORTBONY/1, and did not
know how many children QREBONY/1 had. lie described QFEBONY/1's house
as attractively middle class. He was avare of the fact that QREBOYY/1
had gone to Kenyon College and praised QPESINY/1's writing skills,
QRESONY/1 showed him a number of articles he hed written which

FUSLIVER said completely folloved ths RESLIVER
was eurprised that soze of these articles had been printed in the United
States ip spite of thedr political orientation,



: “a af & OEM. oan | i

y

Seetetetnes ia a
GRIFFITH ViSIT 4

a
Conversation yith rrof. Wiliiea 3. Grigifith, London, 25/4/67. :

Tadeusz Horxo phoned my hone to tell ne trat ZEKKEX Griffith, who

is spending a sabbatical year in Nurich froa WIT, wanted to see mee
Later that evexing, Leo Lapbedz anc Griffith arrived. Stella Joyce

of Annesty Intercational ani “atthew hxoana also arrived unexpectedly.
It turned out that Lebedz and Joyce iad often talked dver kkezkaxax the
phoze, but had never net.

ited | East africa. In Dar

a of the Pac

Griffith told ne that he had ipbemaged
es Salaau, Le had wet vavid Sikexo
(Pan Africonis’ Congress). ze said bis distinct iz ression was that
PAC was on a strong sro-Uhinese course. Griffith said he written
to hana ilaboro's old acdress in Loncon in an effort to contact hia,
but kad learned later that Nehozo was now at Mieke Kirkland House,
Harvard University. He ecaid he looked forward to telxing wits Hatouo
when he went briefly to the USA in ley. Gs

GESgseeeasaceecaceestar ne sects sceaeeeeastane gtkac no onesaepegeneia meeovnay-ee iscere etneonctomtlonoussaqenertenentiamresrseeropaneeS EEO

a 68 car

i Se the pte Berar ME



rm

|
|
{
i
|
|
|
|
|
i
i
f
|

C/viEd
rare

C/7O:USE, COS/Londan, C/Eur Div

» weerprt O/

As HOS is aware, GREBOKY/1 has been pursuing a legal action against Jacques
Fcktehe Ge nas now received a letter fron his lawyer which seens to indicate
that Verges is willing to make sone sort of settlezent—altiougi he can only pay
in Algerian dinars. Q?E30%Y/1, of course, is willing to accept a settlezent
provided it includes sone sort of apology fron verges. Armed with this apolozy
QREBONY/1 could then dispose of any lingering dcubts regardinz nis political
reliability caused by Verges" accusations and would also have the ego gratification
of forcing Verges to eat his own words.

i Koh We

AAPG C. LAGINESTRA

‘ttachnent: USC
As stated above USC

Distribution:
3 = C/sOVIEW w/atts USC—

2 - C/WOMUSE w/o atts A
2 - COS/London w/o atts oS
2 - CfEur Div w/o atts

2 Fay 1967
1s Far mE



t
{
H

j

Ayana yee nga ttn en ee ne anne ee

Hee

AFF. GiBSON C/Nouvelles Editions Internationaies

a

S. Futb. Moninerte

| [oo ous & = rm

erge Scnuartzerberg —\ - ’ PARIS, *~ 17 AVRIL 1907
é ._ =

pibtpieenie Monsieur GIBSUN
masse Th 1 30, Stockleigh tiall
Prince Albert skoad
LoxXvox NX.W.8 (Grande Bretagne)

Cher Monsieur, “

Editions Internationale
savoir qu'il a eu une conversation avec -ie VEXGES qui lui a
indiqué qu'il vit actucllement en Algérie et.serait disposé
A rechercher un réglement amiable des difficultés qui vous
opposent.

Il m'a fait part qutactuellement sa situation ne
lui permet pas de payer en une autre monnaie que la monnaie
algérienne, savoir le dinar.

Il y a 14 une question de principe. Pourriez-vous,
je vous prie, me faire savoir si vous pourriez énvisager une
transaction aux termes de laquelle vous seriez réglé en dinars.
4 Stignore d'ailleurs dans quelles conditions l'exportation aes i
capitaux d'Alggrie est encore possible ace jour.

uo: qu'il en soit, peut-étre seriez-vous intéressé
par cette proposition.

Je n'ai pas encore discuté de chiffres avec mon
confrére adverse puisqu'il s'agit 14 d'une question préjudi-
cielle 4 toute discussion sur le fond de la somme due.

J*attends donc votre prochaine réponse et vous prie
de croire, cher Monsieur, 4 l'exprgssion de mes sentiments *
dévoués. : :

MICROFILMED

MAY 5 1957

~

i pho: n@ ircormeé hia I would agree
Fs oo - % 3 By currency
to a settlecens, bit 2 oe: zs to be raid in any nn

e 2 tent to which Ja
a eescariiy ceperd on the exvens to wv  vacques
He ose szed for bis aes reer ens
Sci not mind if Verges attexptec y tae bles
eee earpet on a "cisuaderstanding" cr on erroneous

or zalicious cisinfor=ation given nin by others.



7 . , SECRET on |

(wrung SHULD I) : t

S:ATeMEN: ot EARNINGS and DEQUCTIGNS P

wae TAPLBVEE NO.) PAY PERIOD GATE ROL CORT CENTER Caml
orEarwy 9 an2790_io4vas pessoa | 20 | 1240062 itn!
DESCRIPTION i

NOTE:
THIS FORM IS ISSUED ONLY WHEN AN %
EMPLOYEE ENTERS ON DUTY OR THERE
1S ANY CHANGE IN THE PAY ACCOUNT

REG Sar

DESCRIPTION

cpa EX CR
FED Tax F

Tncrease Korma) Salary fram $700 to $746 effective 1 December 1966,

exrLovts NUMBER: a
(000 : aaa
002799 QREBONT-2 cu :
{9 1314 Previous editions obsolete SECRET a
7 eerie etre net ene wee enum EMPLUTEE
Te orrnas [arfaas [aoreas] sate] rr ant | wo awoueT So _NORMAL | oTmeR
B6!_4600—



Sg fo Jia

ConSuMEN Satan.

TIONS

fi
H
i
i

|
i
|



1. QREBONY/1 told RODIGAST at their most recent meeting that he did not
have to file an overt tax form for 1966 because his gross overt incoze for 1966
was less than $600, This will not be true for the 1967 tax year and he will
have to file in the Spring of 1968. The operative sentence in the 1966 Tax
Guide For US Citizens Abroad, US Treasury Dept IP3 Pub No 54 states--"Every
citizen of the United States, regardless of where he resides who is under 65
years of age and has a gross income of $600 or more during a tax year must
file an Income tax return.” .

2. For the record the undersiened who is as yet unfaviliar with all
administrative details, would appreciate HQS confirmation of the above.

ACE

AARON C, LAGINESTRA

Distribution:
3 = C/HOVIEW —
2 = COS/London

CaPaTEN FADO AAD BUNGE ears
OEPA ~ 228 22 April 1967

1 Fas evete

:
i
i
i



eo

j

oe

_

TOvance COPY

ersses Oherertee Drones

SECRET 1910342 CITE LeprpIf aver.
DIRECTOR INFO LONDON :
DIDORIC QREBONY / ba
REF: DIRECTOR 96256

1. AGREED PARA 3 REF THAT RAISE NOT EE PASSED
THRU GRPURE, ALSO AGREE JULY EFFECTIVE DATE.
REQUEST HOS TAKE STEPS HAVE RAISE ADDED TO
SALARY DEPOSITS NADE BY HGS TO QREEQNY'’S ACCOURT. :

2. WILL COMMENT ON PARA 4 REF WHEN PROMISED j
DISPATCH RECEIVED, :

SECRET : ie

= SECRET



‘
{
f

C/aOVIER

oy
C9S/London, C/Zur Div, C/¥CYUSE
rr

Caief, LCPIPIT e

“[eeacty pTD0RIC/Spe: atlona
oDaoty /sritisa

RETR REQUCED  RTORCES

1, The USC memoranda sets forth a problea which QRESOKY/1 recently
encountered at London Airport and bow it was solvec with the assistance of

London Station and JAGUAR.

2. As natters now stand, Sritish Imigration will take no action against

GRERONY/1 without checking with JAGUAR.

A Ck

AAROH C. LAGIUESTRA

Attachsent: USC
As stated above para 1 USC

Distribution:
3 - C/OVIey w/att USC
2 = C/HOINSE w/att USC
2 - COS/London w/o att
2 - C/fEur Div u/o att

€S COFY

i

S/C ATT'D BY RI/AN
Dated_i MAY 1967

APR 18 1957

OEPA = 211

17 April 1967

‘GASERCATION
SECRET



fell him that hevirz a
wife maces hin ircune to zest out-cieking activitie:
as his nose is clean.

i . In fact, it is all fixed with the Hme “ffice, Tney wild
: not take any action against hin without checkizg with JACUAR,
i |] and they, of course, vill enecu vith us. 3b stocid not be
encouraged to be flippant cr sassy with

but he doesn't need to panic, eitner. He sho: behave in

@ reasonably straigatZorvaré ana natural wey = so he should not
be encouraged to think we have “fixed” things for hin.

te question of having him

wita Jac

! I also discussed ze
: taken off the watchlist.
want, but their cc

| te be watehli.-ed
credentie>

shat it

thet sort, then to get the business
ior people, zi, af course,
yy ana aii tht) be cisccuraged

eirpor. carrasscer’.

o 3 burden,
whe Susis of ce tec wsoiee.ce
leaving Aix vcvehlisted,

Yo. 2 eny prebiexs, or {f there are ary :

Imigratica people, ,


—

- ce ; a eae

- ; . : . onry © 222

: : 15 tpr 67

| —

ERIZISH DICG2ATIGN PRELEL

Returning to the U.S. oa 25/3/67, I ms warned by British Insigration at London Airport that

I was sperding core tice in Pritain than outside the ccuntry, The Inc.cration Officer inspected
ay passport closely, ecusting the mucker of trips I had nade since getting that passport, which
had boon issued by the U.S, Zbassy in Leadon, of 1 Decender 1565. However, no explazation was
asked for concerning the travel, I explained that I bad intended to resettle in Suitzerland or
France end was spending so much tire in Britain only becouse ny wife, who was British, had bean
helping to take care of ber elderly parents in Lordon, I wus told nevertheless that I should

g0 to the Hore Office and azply for texporery residence in Britain,

Before doing so, I wotld reed to knozs
2) whether I should in fact do sos
2) how should I describe ny work, If ory, and source of inco=o,
At present, upon investigation, the Eritish would Jeaza thet I have no visible ceans of income,
except for perhaps for xy Reports axd soxe freclonce fournalisn, but nevertheluss receive nonay

regulsrly from a Sviss beak sccount,

If T told the done Ortice, T we a szectance Journalist, T isogine they would Lenuad sone sort

ef venk or other financial statements, which tould probably be excinct by Brit_:. tex authorities
for possible tamtion, avea if I cay I have no expleyzext of ony coxsequence and =cintain nyscle
on Income from investaccts sade in Sritzerlacd and elsechere, I night have to verify that. statesent
end poy sone sort of British taxes, Considering the yositions of ay trothers-imiaz, T doubt if
either could get acy vith clsining to fully er partially support my fsnily, J. ay brotherine
Jas Cordon Eaye, tho 1s a Chartered Accountant, has been deducting my children's sw) foes ~

froc bis cares ty ceans of an educational trust fund, although he co longer pays anything toranis

this night
the fees, I could say that I was the beneficiary of a toufree U.S. fetlorehip pobesanesicatian

SeeeS SB y prove nove cusbersone and dangerous than necessary, in the present clreunstascesy

In any case, I need advice on this catter urgently, as I suspect I cay soon ho. . -.sit fron the

Bowe Office tf I do nob go to thes voluatarily, f
Be taal

i
|
\
|

wud



bi

» 3

i a.

4

=)

&

\ —-_——

=z
zg §
=e
g °
2
=]
E 8
BE
S
a

Qo\ |

NICOSIA - CYPRUS

____



~
| Chief of Station, London For LCPIPIT

ere es

8 A

Chief of Station, London

‘88401 D DTDORIC /QREBO:
OREBONY /1 Ment
TETON REQUIRED - REFTRENCES

Chief, WOVIEW’

NY /Operational

See paragraph 4,

1, Transmitted under separate cover is an excerpt from a recent
Senate debriefing of a PBRUMEN defector, in which GREBONY /I's

name was mentioned,

2, We do not believe that the testimony is particularly awlovard for
QREBONY /1, and while we had an opportunity to have this portion of the
testimony stricken from the record, we elected not to do anything about
it since it would have involved revealing W OFACT interest in QREBONY /1,

3. FYI, In order to avoid any concern on the part of ORPURE should
this portion of the testimony ever hit the press, KAMMERMAYER
mentioned the reference to CREBONY /1 in low key to ORPURE at a recent

meeting, QRPURE exhibited no concern,

4, Please have RODIGAST brief OREBONY /l concerning the testimony
at an early opportunity,

JULIA R, CONGREVE

Attachment:
As stated above (u/s/c)

Distribution:
Original & 2 - LCPIPIT w/att.
1 - COS, London w/o att.

of | MOS ME eiwoee

201-306052

Distributien:
1 ~ Ri/w Att,
1 = E/BC/UK w/o att;
14 CI/IC w/att,
1 WH/COG/CA/EW
LGce INC
\



i.

L WE MEL) 4e oF Phe HE

nix

wad they

volving ~~,

7
fi
¥
i
F

es)
i

chink they id, but £ +

vine. Involving the orth

ee

i@ moshing furth

.2tion akout the

ie. uine.

25 eitizens uho had

Welta. No,

ik. fcvrvine. Didn't you have sonething to €> with an

¢ waa a ucWwSpaper wan, a colored nan.

He, Sourvire. A Negro?

i. Volta. Yea, a Negro. And he used to be, I think,
president of Pair Play for Cuba heze in the States, I think in-
Hey “ort. ¥ don't xnoy if this was in Hey York. and he visited
the Enbassy, trying to get a visa.

Rr. Sowrwine. The Cuban Faeassy in London?
Mr. Volta. Yes, the Cuban Embassy in London.

Hr. Sourwine. To get a visa to go to Cula?

Rr. Volta, Yes. And then we sent this request to Cuba,

SECRET

fe4- Scbos 2



had a xeply. De vanted to rave an interview vith

mayacins <= Playlhi

Por

ypex Pan Jo, do you usw Ta you

& ticw, be was edit

ing a Lvilctin, i

n
1 Ent £ know !
| he vas oa.ting
i
'
asws oC, Gx whether it was a prozacanda enterprise?
' He. Volta. I think it vas a private news service, kecatse
i : "

his peat vas in the head.
iv. Sourvine. hat was that nae?
bine volta. I tricd to ranember his naue.
_ My. Souxrwine. Didn't you tell our waa in Miami that it

was Richard Gibson?
Richard Gibson?

+ Hz. Volta. Right, that one, yes, sir. Richard Gibson.

Nr. Sourwinc. How, & you have any details avout the

alleged contract with Playboy Kagazine for an interview with

Fidel Castro?

7 t :

me


-

ce een TRE NE RN Te ey


prem

SSIFIEO KESSAGE

3 __ SECRET Ged eee

arena [Ta

|
|
|
|

“SECRET o2i318Z
PALP INFO DIR CITE LOM 2425
DIDORIC GRPREY GREBONY

1. QREBONY RAW REPORTS RECEIVED 1 MARCH. APPRECIATE ;
PROMPT FORWARDING. i ee
2. SINCE WILL BE CONTINUING REVIEW OF CASE WITH isis:

i
|
!
i
i
!

JAGUAR IN NEXT FEW DAYS (THE re os
OUR CONTINUED OF HIM In WOULD APPRECIATE CASLE é
SUHMARY LATEST MEETING WITH QREBONY AND PLAWS FOR IMMEDIATE 4

'
a
FUTURE. : i fee
SECRET \ 1
CFH 2425 GREBONY RAW 1 JAGUAR EBONY | :
[_fresowy |
Br \



”

~~
Pedceral Pureea of Investigation
Attention: ire &. J.
FRGie Baputy Director for Hoss
SBI SARs Isvelvernt with
requests
feproving the
you, Vhooe reporting
aa
our ond his
vee

euch meetings wuld be considerably enhemeed if he could obtain a
otrikes us 6s
te become ths

Bittle but whieh secs, trom what he dose know, to be

base
this
t

Hoya oy
7 Hf f ive Hy .
ee
Poaata dy
chad G 4
ee ee .
Haat |
Hy &
3 fe
iat
i a

@iecussing tais problem with important
Wo would welcome particularly, |

hw
relative
Agpacy
we ere
2
sovitation
ry
reputation of being
Snforantion you possces on



cota

SECRET
o2s

Tm this

etven your Agsnay's tsoad movlodge of such omganiastions ar |

ke Most of all, wo would volcom your commsts on this gmeral probles,
7

alg
i
HE
a
HT ; 3
i i "Hae
Hi gp

SECRET



SECRET

wenruary ay66

Qrebony Clearance. (201-306052)

Field Investigation of QUESHY;
requeste that the usual field background investigation not be

ia the clearance process instituted for QREBOHY.
We make this request for limitation because of our strong belie?
‘that such an investigation vould mm an wmacceptably high risk--spproaching

L Pursumt to cur conversation of 21 February in your office, this

ened


| Bis use is understood to be, and has been, Limited and precludes revelation
or
lother KUBARK operations, vitting participation in the of
Jor the passing of such requirements as wuld)
states of KUBARK|

SECRET

Negnee reer ee oe petra i

Loon


:
i
1
|
i
i

AB roo neeny WO MET ULeeLE TR ae rence eT Fe A

po

SECRET
REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVEST! TEVE ACTION

Always handcarty 1 copy of thie fora)

SUBJECT:
(Troe nome) =‘ BAchard Thomas GIBSON

CaveTonves, PSEUDONYM, AKA O8 ALIASES:

Paavis ona ovens ronaL
OreeaTionat_ APPROVAL

jn [enovisionas_covenr secuaivy apraovat COVERT want cwEeK
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL s[srcetat tnquiny (SO field invest
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL Tom DiAIsOn viv U.s, OFFICIMLE

I~ SPEcivic AREA OF USE
Patan

TC. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS OM COVERAGE IH THE IvESTIGATiON oF sunvect. HO FBI © ALL info fros them

jm_(2) COPIES ATTACHED
tw (1) cory atracwen

List sources: utente]
[ [mot imiriateo (Expl

cool



wees

ates
Richart Thomas orBsos 16 406%
apie 306052 8 February 1966
23 May 1931, Los Angeles, California Somes Murphy
v.8. Xr
THT

Freelance Journalist London, England

Journalist

x
Btudent John Hay Whitney Fellowship Italy 3991 = 52
BOO U.S. Amy Germmy, U.S, 52 1954
Editor Revolution Africains Algters 1962-64
Bxecutive Becretary for Fair Play for Cuba Committee Hew York 1962-62 2
Bevowriter,XEE CBS Revs Rew
English Baiter Agence France Presse Peris 1955-58
Freelance Italian Filus Export & Christian Seience Rone 1958-52
Cub Royorter Afro-fmerican U.B. 1950-51.

Say Younding masbor of Fair Play for Cubs Committee; mamber HAACO, Urban League and
dasricon Society of # Africen Culture ;

5°20" 165 Block Kinky bleck Hegro



t

(of of Station, Parte (LCFIFE)
Ciiof, UE, Deputy Chtof, WLC) Chief, KUDERE

Attached berevith are copies ef tho reports prepared by ANPOHE,2 concera-

ing the Bhjecte ef reference.

Qoarge D. SOCRIOTE



* ALGUNAS OPINIONS SOLRE LA VIDA Y PERSONALIDAD DE:

ROBERT TAKER

RICEARD GIBSON
ROBERT KILLI-HS
WILLI 4S “ORTHY



pORUES ATE EO J BAG OTRRS SIPC ALE ARTUR ATES SOONERS EEG HORSERACE NSS TOU A I ORT PRESET I ERED DY EERE

“Robert ater —

bye pean sete

4


)

i>
,
feetenk Than (contre

ag agageeemaeniraeee ¢

seth At el Mant ee Aeon: MONCH ENRON) WEEE CTI PAYEE MO EOS RGM EER VLA SEU SCS MRAP OCD BORSA ENORRTTSD 1



bis

) :
i s| 4
§

x cs

m i

fs) i

q }

3 i

£ :

rs :

fa i

at ; \

. . = Pineeee t
ren : a
an : : §
ve : £

A ggureana dn nnteretad tnt ne Sm memmenienestmenrderne ah de Cts cP er A a me Ee OAR EAS SOLES GIES ANH CASTER ATI 3


“illiame

Rotert

Peet ca ctetelictet tall

bet


3
ra
Fa
a
4
qj
Esl

oe wh

Piaeeioees |

Seg opt west ae: he ALT EBACE RN DI RRR capi Leet ed NOE EAU ET IROL MATE RINT SNE SEO LITT LS EC AI AA


” Chief of Station, Paris/ICPIPIT x

Chief, KUWOLF

DTDORIC/GRPREY AREBONY HIN
ACTION REQUIRED: FYI of

REP: A. PALP $933 (if 96553)
B. OFLA 3128 (18 Hovember 1965)

1. We bave discussed the substance of the question raised
in Hef B through the regular Headquarters channel with tho
QDENVY Rop bore who has acted as a point of liaison for QREBOHY
material in the past. o passed on, also, the aatcrials which

you propared for the QDENVY representative with whom you are
roy contact in Paris. We raised spocifically the quostion of
Passing CREBONY's identity to the Paris ODEVY representative,
which you mentionod in Rof B, stating that, so far as KUDARK
is » ve had no objections. The ODEHVY representative
here, however, thought that this might cerve to confuse goac-
what tho lines of coordination for QREDONY‘s information, for
which ODENVY headquarters has sole responsibility. Ue there-
foro felt that we sbould continue tho present arrangement by
which, in effect, GREBRIY's identity ia beld here at the point
whore his material within ODENVY originates. He appreciated,
however, your initiative in filling in tho Paris ODENVY
representative on the tarcots which QREGONY can service, thus
@lerting him to posgiblo leads he aight look into. Ho suygests
also that ve be kept avaro of your liaison with ODENVY in the
field to guard s:ainst false confirmation or other possible
duplication which could lead to confusion here in those
Rien of QOEHVY responsible fer processing the QREDOEY
material.

2. With respect to Freedomways, discussed in Ref A,
and Q’s possible relationship with it, we will report goparatoly.

Bowoll D. KAMMERMAYER

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - COS, Paris/LCPIPIT

OFLH-1414 JAN ws
8-E-C-R-E-T 300-124-156/3
2 - 200-124-156/2 CAA (30-12-65) 7767
3 et Aee

c1fce ees

” C/ca

q
i
i



| AOR DE OR st LCE ARSERCM OY HAE ERS ROIS PANU OBERT SOAR RON PE AEG

|
|
|
|

CLASSIFIED HESSAGE

(elise (alain

SECRET 2217452 7
PaRI DIR INFO PALP CITE LOND 5337 .CA¥OOD oe

ZIBET LCHAl o,f A 0)
tner Fant sose (2947) O\ 21 é

Je UNBOUND HAS MADE AVAILABLE TO ODENVY SAME INFO AS CONTAINED
REF. ODEGNVY LOND INSIST THEY HAVE NO OPS Integr GIBSON. SER-
[OUSLY DOUBT EITHER SWOTH OR JAGUAR IAVE ANY RELATIONSHIP At
|GIBSON:, SINCE WOULD BE GROSS CAND SOONER OR LATER op : :
‘APPARFNT) CONTRAVENTION OUR (he setenseterterceer) i | i

—— = ei ide

2. LOND

|No STA TRACES.
i 3. ODENVY FILES HERE REFLECT FURTHER INFO ON CHARGES G!~30N

A KUBARKER, ALTHOUGH NOTHING TO INDICAT: 3ASIS FOR SUCH CuAcGEb, ‘ eae
(SEE ODENVY/¥ASH LETTER TO KUBARK INFO ODENVY/LOND ASD fe2ly ‘i i
1 DECS4, CAPTIONED RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON.) CAN HOS SHED ANY LIGHT? :

° LOND, GIBSON



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

AND MR. KENNETH TYNAN

GIBSON).

ie

SCUTTLE REVOLUTION REPEAT REVOLUTION.

SECRET

SaRAUPEENEIEieS eae

ed

REVOLUTION REPEAT REVOLUTION. PLS ADVISE.

SMOTH.

5S. SMOOTHERS HAVE PREVIOUSLY ACKNOWLEDGED THEY WOULD LIKE

REQUEST LOND BE ADVISED

OF SCHEME OF DIR 63751. THEN, IF APPROPRIATE, SUGGEST WE
DISCUSS WITH SMOTH/JAGUAR/LCBEFORE AS NECESSARY TO ENLIST THEIR
COOPERATION. JAGUAR IN PARTICULAR MAY BE USEFUL IN PROVIDING
CURRENT DATA ON GIBSON AND MAY BE ABLE GET SOMEONE CLOSE TO HIN
IN ORDER OBTAIN OPS DATA IN SUPPORT ANY PLAN FOR OP AGAINST

a °
[secret | wears noe. |

i
|
'



“RICHARD JIBSOD 30, stoclteigh Halt

é EE —EE Prince Albert Road
HEREC gee cc crreereereeeer errEETETe i ceetcnnitat Lorton, Teve8
Zel.s PRI 8778
4238 Bae Borus Los Ancelen, Czlife, UsSeheg 13 Kay 192i0
Married = wife Englishes Geree ceiléren - agen 7, 9 2nd 5 rote

Tducations 2razarz schools, Pat:
ContraL gi Seneol, ¥: Olphia, Pas
Xsayon Colicce, Gasrier, Ohio (read English lite)
Usiversity of Rome (Italtsa Lites 1953-52 )
Sordouno, 3 (22-2 gies, 1955)
Coluxbdla Us ate Sonools
LP» 1380-61)

York

Firut entered Journal. isa ia 1953 as veportersvierk for 2uil-=
Geirnia AtrosAcovtoan, a Yogro weelly.

In 1951252, waile at tending the Uaiverslty of 2
legs for Rdsund & 22 of ‘the | zed.
Buresa of the ©:
Farttine work «= 4) is Felations eo Sor
Zilzs Export, a setieroze: agency Zor the exsor<
of italian fitcs to Ingii: souatzicte

1957541 drafted tase U.S, Arcye Served ag ncn-con in triost«,
Vest Cerrany and U.5.A4,
19550531 Englische? uage editor, Amonce 7rance-Prosze, the

Feoren natloral ne aponey ia Saris. Aldo wrote for the Ac
Intercoustnentale, ArP's feasura services

1959-611 neQavritten for Ooluxsia Broadcasting Systen for radios
and television la Xow Yorke ved fron this joo decause, of cy
activities in founding the Yair Fioy for Cate Comsittee in tho
Uoz.8 to support the Cubau Zevolution.

15512523 Sacretarzetreasurer of tac Institut: for the Inspz:
of Interefrericas Relatics, 12s, enartered ag an ad
satlea" under the laws o2 the Stato of Taw York, The
for Cuba Coraittes wav a rersanent corzittee of the Ia.
tha chief? said officer of tha soganization, I directed 2
ie relations cazsaign aire? at countering U.S. propazan.
arainst Cuya. Ir published toons, rewSlesters and placed ady
oa donalf of Cuba in the U.S, presse

1962-643 English-language editor of the international review
Pevolution., ‘ea ona of tae Sounding editors of Feyolution
Ztziczine in Meter: aad later cent to Switzerland to ecis

QB Gonthiy in fazlish. Pirscted all aspects of the cliting, publishe
dng end distrivutios of the ra;2zinz.

1965— $ Publisher of Richard Gibson Roports, & regular ne=s
ond features service, nainly ior AirosAierican newspaperse



Deemer 0 em ro suner 5 me a

DCOCIKXDOOKOOOK,
routing

MESSAGE FORM
roraLcopies: 3/

SECRET

10085 14 3Z¢

REPS: A. LOND 0723 (Ii 00407)
_—_B. Diw 61637 ae
3. consuumarmon wirs| ELD FOLIOWDDNO:
* A. ‘TRAVEL WITH U.S, PASSPORT FROM AREA OUTSIDE U.§. CONSIDERED
RCHTICAL VIOLATION, HO? BASIS FOR CRDAMAL PROSECUTION. 4
B. [VIDEICE OP SUCH TRAVEL, 2.¢. CORAF VISA STAMP, TS BASIS

ABSTRACT KIT

fo

FOR ATMMISTRAGIVE ACTION BY STATE IEPT ACAINSE BOLDER OF PASSFORT. 4
1.8. WHEN HE PRESENTS HIS PASSPORT FOR RENEWAL, EMBASSY WILL REFER TO

. I "

C. DESPITE REP A REPORP PROM ODENVY THAT LOND PASSPORT FILE IS
CLEAN, ‘ CANOE ASSURE THAT LOND PASSFORT OFFICE |
WOULD AUTOMATICALLY RENSW QREBONY PASSPORT ON REQUEST,
To "DEPT IF SuCA MADE,
WITHOUT REFERRAL XJ, THERZ MAY EXISP DZROG IW EBONY PASSPORT? FILE
HERE RESULTING IN INSTRUCTIONS TO LOND EMBASSY ISSUE LIMITED PASSPORT

“ WOR TRAVEL HOMS.. CAN BOT CLARIFY FURTHER STATUS EEONY FILE EERE WITHOUT

owes

ns Apea.

bsabeaatons eeticeny 11 ORO.
oie

tS PROMIBITED. rath



ot : :
fh ‘ = MESSAGE FORM Ocemoy 1 BTN To BRANCH DD mE RD
: 7 TOTAL copies:

1 tot .
oar 8 Dito ,
ers O)No moex’ Cc

Orne nes rue no.

ROUTING

6 AA

eee ec ld 6 5 ia
: ‘PAGE TWO i

Frou: DIRECTOR 3

comry pro: ve , Fire C) RID COPY : :

3
Ait

EYL
2. DY ANY CAS WE ABLE PROTECT QREEONY

IP EBONYS REQUESD FOR RENEWAL 18 REVERED TO/ BECAUSE OF CUBAN
TRAVEL OR SOME OTHER CAUSE, WE CAN HAVE

ie 3. PLEASE ADVISE WHEN EBONY PASSPORT EXPIRES. I? Tt BAS BEEN |
.

RENEWED RECENTLY, CUBAN VISA WILL PRESENT NO PROBLEM FOR LIFE OF
RENEW
DOCUMENT. EBONY SHOULD NOT ATTEMPT E2233} WITHOUT PRIDR COORDINATION
f ae

4. PLEASE ADVISE ALSO WHETHER EBONY HAS RECEIVED CUBAN VISA FOR ©

TRAVEL, HOW ACQUIRED, AND WHAT ARRANGEMENTS HE PLANS FOR TRAVEL.

APPRECIATS/ESTIMATED TRAVEL COSTS,
*.BRRAKDOWT a

COORDINATING OFFICERS

Saal E a 3

a
a REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

if :



Citet, HERP x
Chiefa: KGWZSHy EORIOT: CSR, FRANKPUAT (METOPAZ for OVEESOSY);
. Culefs of Stations Grrmeuy; Peris (TECHS).

Pert
cm/sreority of oom \
ie

Ae OFLA SOM (Hot cont Chief, CSB, Frankfurt; COS, Oorannys
oa, Paris)

B. PRAW 9280

1. Porserted herewith is o Meserendus for the record
Peria/ICPIFIt's iovesticetion of the eccurity of QFEORY/1"((/ J.
eyeten follaring an epicots involving an 11 October 155
i by ICPIPIT.

&. We request Headquarters’ guidance converning this eituation,
t with special referener to Paragraph 5 of the sttached Memorandum, in order that uo
A eay tebe 011 appropriate ateps te recolve the problem of maintaining secure

H coamumiosticns with CIRO /l, expecially in view of the plans te eend CHEBONY/2 §
i oa on extanted Visit to Cuba corensing zoretine in nid-Docamber 1965.

Rarvey G. FAHMRICH

attecmonte

Renoranke te

Diotributicar Cs)
Al = C,KUDTEE w/stt. ber ae yr?
‘2 + CKURTOT w/att. be _
1-6, CaB,Freakfurt w/att. tr ae

1 + COS, Corcany watt. be

1 - 003, Paris w/att. be ‘

1 = G1 wo att. Orta 52 BR Rowenber 1965
3 -C,KUWOLF ‘ :



q

|
i

seman a

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Record
FROM % Harvey G, FAHNRICH

SUBJECT 4 Security of QREBOKY/2 i

REFERENCES: a A. OFLA 3044

B. PALP 4385
C. FRAN 5087
arly June of thie year KUWOLF developmental agent QREBONY/1
Ce aa by KUWOLF Career Agent Rufus F. RODIGAST in
rescribed by MKTOPAZ per Reference C. BONY / 1

end | Jin the latter part of June, Concurrently,
Peris Station _—| on LCPIPIT's behalf. reauestad in OFPT 10348 that
METOPAZ prepare for QREBOUY/1"s use
]for the agent, The Was received subsequent]:
an4_nnmaad om QREBONY/1 on 18 July 1965, at which time his origina’ eaHee|
yas withdraw, 7

2. QREBONY/1 first! dated 22-
July 1965, comments on which were transui © intereste Headquarters

which would alleviate the -

QREBONY//

3. On the basis of LCPIPIT's instruction to refrain fron)
except for " tial” messages, QREBONY/1 did not employ it again
unt! October 1965. The|

in the 22 July letter
| Esaseesseeereaeerseeerraee To quote Paris Static

On the basis of this report, QREBONY/1's previous performance in|
the fact that the next point from which he was to|_ [would

te LCPIPIT dete: he

mecessity of OREBONY/: ‘and

withdrew ZU Uctober 1¥55. LCPIPIT retains possession of
pee ce eae

med



NO, 3 still pound

and
_ [mei October

a

additional comments of Paris Station

4. Of greater concern to

hovever, vere the follo-ing
arding the 11 October =

In the 20 October mecting at which

ted that he had the Ll Octoby

b a8 _withdrem
t there wes son

i conc
but nothing which could be te
a 1100 hours vben he was alone at his home end

the re f tha! flomediately. He said he then ont tha!

ia an immadiately and| ry
a avoid! He added that be then placed the|
{ placed it in his pocket, and| it two hours later|| il

to him home, QREBONY/1 asserted that he did not)

end was certain that his wife hed not seen it.

6. Pursuant to LCPIPIT's exploration

of this question with QREBONY/1

we sent an informal note to MKTOPAZ via a Paris Station Officer on 20 October
1965 requesting assistance in efforta to determine whether QREBONY/1's 2

were pieked up at the LCPIPIT

and were handcarried by a Paris Statioa Officer: :

to Frankfurt on 18 November for processing by MKTOPAZ. Paris/LCPIPIT asked the

i
{
H
i
d
i
i
L _ 9pinion of MKTOPAL on the folloving pointe:

8. MATOPAZ advised LCPIPIT on 19 November via FRAN ai] that there

aero eee 8

enol



pitt Sanch Hop

nmuinenwcteitcrnoiveati ee eretamgnepenementns inti ah ho tanh

>

In reply to the act
e Situation) Redigest told

aIY/ls

1, We can't do sayvzinz about ni
housing protle: in vicu cf nen-percenent *
<) nature of our present arrangmenz.

- GR

_ 2. Avoid fornalizing periodical at this
points it should reguire no eathorizations
for publication as iz is merely 2 news
correspéndent's resort, =izeozraphed for
convenience—not a mecezine.

3. In order to control. content Soc
‘alone pare rese

ting out issues—
bats o and above ell to Sins

ner a eoeacts

OFLA- seh

Do Wer 465



aGs
HOns 32Tuntiuse

any wife wes ri

ther hostile tc <y r.
ce suid shew

out wi till |

because 1 was luzy, oc: a,

be treatea vy thi

Boe asked. ‘fuyway,
tae

she pointed out the situatio:
in London was trying +o evicy vs an
Going. I bad wo sussvunéiei Zuncc
living on the geierosity of ihe .2

Moreover, she was tired of seing a
from her, she had beex cer fur
enough troudle wit. sy “secrcets" ~.

However, she liked
“objectivity” and

I vas keeping seercts
ske seid, She hod rad
» she said,

vag sorry 222u5 the

coulén's cake 2 success

I could aet-sone he:
of tue

I emphasized to rer treat I:
hils' «nowlecge and tnas ske
matter with hin, sie said
nobody was core honest tian

“However, she was jeruinely

ec really oe incepercent,

Dut ws
There vas no reason, if
I

he said.

etec with
ro account ever ment
ow the or

time trying to collect
wrote..x herself a picce
of ner resentment wo
most of the business ix

I was prepar: -
i Gavex the feeling that a

5 -_



OFLA 3IYG/!

TS Fie SFR aA ng Ha a DOME SCSI CA DS RES



neerenerveennnenasnatennnctenetith OEINH 8 NO a D8

ieueut Copy te Eatzenbach ta

Subject: QREBONY/1 ~ Socurity at haze

1. At bis 17 Novexber meeting with Rodigest CR=3CH¥/1 (2) was
asked mme questions concerning kecp of files and corr: den:
copies of all correspondence (except routine Ictters transaitting articles
he hag ritten, for exanple) in a file to which his wife has access.

He maintains a ninimm of questionable notes, and keeps 1s personal
notebook (with addresses, expenses, etc.) in his coay pocket day and night.

2, His wife has two brothers. The one to whaz Q oxes money is
Gordon, a_chartered accountant, wno during World Ya: It was in Srinish
Military Intel, He visits the Q hate to tring gifts from the wife's
mother to the Q iren, but has a cat-and-doz relctionship xith Q's
wife; indeed, he will not stay for a reel because he centt stend talking
to her, and the feeling is mutual. Q is certain she wuld never think of
confiding in Gordon, for exazple to say: "Lock et these exful letters
Q has written!" Gorden ds core lixely to confide in Q bixself. Gordents
politics are apparently solidly conservative. (His wife's other brother,
Jess involved with thea, works for Ren.)

1a Nov 65 OFLA av

h. Q wanted to get a lawyer's opinion on “kat regulations govern
publishing & pericdicai in his countzy of residence (he is not of course
Officially a resident at all). Sensing addition:1 costs and unnecessary

formality, Rodigast sugzested that he xe it on 4)
a nos @ separate |
rent censes of payment of > av Lea: ‘or

requiring eventual licease:
the tine being, Mailed first cless, the materiel should require no permit
from the mail authorities, A contact hed suggested he night have
dirfieilty vith the locals (see rezort of Q!s 15 Novecber contact with WP),



SECRET 1716422
DIR CITE PALP 5433

DTDORIC_AESOVY
PEF DIR 57747, PARA 3

(Q) IDENTITY NOT DIVUL GD LOCALLY,

new YORK (FILE NOz BUFILE 18¢-434319) RE

[hv 686553

\

v

1, PALP POUCHING DETAILS FIELD LIAISOY WITH WENVY/ PARIS RE
EXCHAN INFO PERTAINING QRESONY PBPRIME CITIZEN CONTACTS. O@REEONY/1

| "f 2, atove INFO RECEIVED FROY ODENVY IS REPORT DATED 17 DEC sé
ee

| REQUEST HDORS STUDY THIS DOCUYENT WITH PURPOSE ASSESSING

FEASIPILITY HAVIN d

|TN ATTExeT secuaz

INCLUDING POSSIBLE

© APPRECIATE GF LINK MAY EE INADVISAPLE IN VIEW: AD

|e |

°

SEEMING INCOMPATIBILITY FETWEEN INDIRECT ASSOCIATION AND

© EFFORTS

ano R CANIZATIONS



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

"” SECRET

lr

NGL ne:

ALSO APPRECIATE %-F ASSUCIAT Lud

SHOULD "€ DISCUSSED YITH WDEMVY,
4. FOSSOING "OT YET DISCUSSED YITH © O2 RODIGST AND ‘JILL NOT

FE PRAISED WITH FORMER PEYDING FDOS REPLY,

5. NO IMEX,

SECRET
CFH 5933 57747 PARA 3 PALP ENVY PARIS 2E ARERONY POEPRIME

198-434219 ne

REROVY/1 (Q) NOT DIVILGED INFO OOFNUY 17 DEC 6é NFU YORK * i

F

2)

L

SET,

Spee

YET 9 RODIGST NOT

:T

FE HDQS NO INDEX

loenvy nor



i

vite 3

i nce

reteset Nome

oss

nieces

ashton epee Nae eI

Chief, KUMOLP x
Chiefs, AP, WB, KUUXSK, KURIOTs; Chief of Station, LONDOS,

ip ALGIZRS.
Chief of Station, PARIS/LCPIPIT

Uiseony 2B Seteier 1965 Centact with IcPIPTE

1. Forwarded herewith as Attachment A is Career Agent Rafus
P. ROOIQAST's Contact Report of his 20 October 1965 meeting with QRREGHNY/l.

2. Forwarded as Attachment B (USC) ia the identity list for
RODIGAST's Cantact Repert.

3. Forwarded herewith as Attachment C is the “Progress: Report”
eubaitted by QEEBONY/1 to RODIGAST at the 20 October nesting. A careful
review of the report's content did net Justify KUIUBE dieseniration of
any of ths nsterial therein,

&. Copios of recent esrrespendence addressed to and sent by
QRBOHY/1 will be forwarded by nonacccuntable manifest as appropriate. |

ae Secale ld even fh re ata aoe
2a Sea Seta ‘Slaters
cn had | LOPIPTE received the following report
x — this letters |

Attachzentes As stated.

" Bastributiens
@-¢ KOLP w/Atte. A.C, bus B use

CAP AP Watton AsC, ins B use
1 - C,\2 w/Atts. A.C, In B use
1 - CRUDESK w/Atta A,C hws B use
1 = C,KUAIOT w/att. A bw
1 = COS, LODGE w/Atta. AC. Ines B use
2 > Goes ALAR a as iy

ALOIEES. use
othe etal oct 28 18

GFA 30M 26 Octeder 1955

: Flew 21-3 CSR



OFLA SOM

erent onthe”

K. Reesnne af Orne AL

File, ge PO REOLLS:



_ 7. —
- [DISPATCH | scar: a ie
: |" Chief, kepaax ARK — |
|
i
|

0 Chief, 4B; Chief, A¥; Chief, KUWOLF; omy quran ose
b eee 1A eam nee occ

ys
mom a‘
n«-Stattons tendon _{/ ae
SUC (QEPREY JAGUAR

JAGUAR Report on 1
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES:

Ref: A OBLA 43,522, 2 July 1965
B OELA 43,802, 11 August 1965

1, The following is the text of a JAGUAR report on| ha
and Marc SCHLEIFER. JAGUAR states that the information
received fro

ma

Marc SCHLBIFER {

London |
SCHLEIFRR | London’

 ESnaEERES EE (EAE z Ea aca

London

SCHLEIFER

2. Ref A contains previous JAGUAR comments about L and
n

SCHLEIFER, of about the same period, While TIFFARY wi
(which puts it at the right tine) an was in touch with
SCHLEIFER, and TIFFANY should be-able to compare JAGUAR's comments
with what| ‘(2 said at the time. Ref B reflects a different
contact between the two, from a different source.

George H> KATZENBACH U t
Distri, don: ?
Chief, KUDESK 1

3-Chief, WE
2-Chief, AF .
2-Chief, KUWOLF Ee '
2-Chief, LCPIPIT 3 Ute BO1- 32060 :

‘CaOeS REFERENCE TO Coto ma OMA
SEP 19 H
OXLA-44 , 033 “3S Sepece er 1965

GASSCATION WQS RUE seneeeR
SECRET

AARON EERE SEIMEI NE et NNN AAR sere nm tor mane

|

ro



rr iue ZorFe. Fiz euassirito MESSAGE rorae corses
a Saal BiieteaA SECRET me

SECRET 2718122,

ALGI INFO DIR CITE(PALP 7)

UNCRISP

DIDORIC GRPREY| ee
REF ALI 6529 (~ S350 +

1.7RELUCTANT GIVE UP | (8) FOR FOLIOWING REASONS:

a i :
AS 10,81 TO CONFERENCE, WITH RENEWED

AND NEW VISA. AS GUEST NEW REGIME WITH NO -

Fy

FREI ASIDES HEDIS SY LES ESN TAN CU

CONNECTION TO OLD, LESS LIKELY TO BE DIS DD. S TO REMAIN
IN NORMAL CONFERENCE MILIEU THROUGHOUT.
B. EVIDENCE AVAILABLE HERE IS ONLY ORTHODOX COMMUNISTS OR

TROTSKYISTS ASSOCIATED VITH OLD REGIME HAVE BEEN TROUBLED, BUT
vot S IS PART OF MINORITY WHICH FOLLOWEI =
IN SUPPORTING NEW REGIME FROM FIRST DAY. :

_ + Ge HOST OF S* OLD
ARE GONE SO HE NOT LIKELY BE INVOLVED WITH THEM. EXCEPTION IS

| WHO SEEWS TO HAVE BADE PEACE VITH REGIME. S* OTHER CONTACTS
VILL BE LIXE HIMSELF BE GUESTS OF NEW’ REGINE AND OF CONFERENCE.
THEY VILL USUALLY BE! Isucn as

D. WE CONTINUE HOLD TO ORIGINAL VIEW THAT S ATTENDANCE AT Cet ea

eae ee OEE...ca8. @ talegs os! y

| ips teen ersten nenmncnnec fee ines asin sown

E

|

Serna init RANA Aye



spats A RO RITES Fh.

wf Goer
| ; Senet. wee? :

u

CONFERENCE WOULD BE USEFUL TO! | FoR
FURTHER OPERATIPNS. § WILL CONsanuncer ox nuvene

THIS COULD BE TRUE OF TRIPS :
AT SOME TIME OR ANOTHER. IN VIEW OF NATURE OF OPERATION, THE RISK
i WOULD SEEM TO BE WORTH TAKING. |
: - 2. PALP UNABLE EVALUATE POSSIBLE COMPLICATIONS VERGES
i REAPPEARANCE MIGHT PRESENT. AS OF 15 .SEPT S NOT OVERLY APPREHENSIVE.

veewsannLY i

3. PALP REMAINS MOST INTERESTS? aes eee WITH ALGI
A SEED (77 £9 b0k,
OFFICER PER PALP 468: AND PALP ier PLS ADVISE.
SECRET

F Ares Ayeciyrey rr ve SE ay AAVE : !
Vy ae heATE. pre rece - i
CFN 4723 6529] 1S S NO CONNECTION S MILIEU TROTSKYISTS i H :

LGI S| aa aaa aaaraaraa
PALP VERGES t
ALGI PER PALP 4689 PALP 4712 PLS a:



oo SO ee some

WN
REPRODUCT 10m PROHIBITED,

Sr cada RTI ee OC Reem J
bijaitbiy Sutin MESSAGE

|

reesbaruniY worir ie

soren copies,

UNCRISP TYPIC PERUYEN é -ESSED Lage
Oe AL 7
REFs DIR 419294 RCE Za

a
1. IN 15 SEPT MEETING 1 ¢S) TOLD minrenst iE

i |PeR | SEPT REMARKS To S AND 5 SEPT
story [ |EDITS OF u.s.

© “EMERGENCY COMMITTEE ON VIETNAM" AND HAS BEEN AN

Zia yA
/ _
FIVE SEPT. _sABLESS a ORNNIN

| -ORTS RE FREE RIDE | Ino .tbks

3. SHAS KNOWN F AND WIFE SINCE 1963. F WIFE’S FAMILY HAS FURNITURE

BUSINESS NEY YORK CITY AND F vote BOOKSTORE AND
PUBLISHING HOUSE. :

4. S HAS MET WITH F IN OVER PAST FIVE YEARS.

THOUGH CLCSE FRIENDS, S°CLAINS F

iy

;

t

| FORET 2cigasz x1... :

| pix rok 1889 crte bee as7s CU Sri 855673: 2

ORIENTATION (SUT NOT BECAUSE OF OLD CHARGES S IS KUSARK AGENT.)
5.- S$ CLAINS F NONAMARXIST, nf ExoTIONALLY ANTI-AMERICAN, NOT ©
ISECLOGICALLY MOTIVATED, NEITHER CONMUNIST NOR ANTI-COMMUNIST. F “FRANK”

20 SEE
WITH S THAT HE HaS SEEN ACCYSED 11 MOROSEXUALITY, BUT S
“B 201" T26/IR sanrt Sof- Bie eeae
Lo pene nee i HE AA a 3 wit



apeh rete erence nomena,

.
secnel yd 68673 Pace 2
Hféso SHCYS INTEREST IN WOMEN. F/S WIFE NOT PHYSICALLY ATTRACTIVE AND

OTHER ACQUAINTANCES CLAIM HE MARRsED FCR MCh
6.

and ‘

fe Ae TS OO 8 ae

pomp tence

S SAYS F DOES NOT APPEAR HAVE MUCH MONEY AND HAS MAINTAINED
WODEST LOND APARTMENTS

7. F°S WIFE vorKs rneassy. WIFE’S SISTER CAME LOND AT SIXTH

F°S THIRD CHILD THREE MONTHS AGO. ON RETURNING yitH F 31 AUG
UNDERSTANDINS WAS SHE TO CARE FOR INFANT SIX MONTHS SINCE F'S WIFE i

YCRKED MORNINGS EMBASSY AND COULDNOT CARE FOR 1h:
TIONS.

INFANT UNDER SUCH CONDI- ce
play dthecl Sf etgterd Pc ob tre ;
8. S$ SAYS F TOLD HIN NONTH asof HE WANTED TRANSFER MADR OR HOPED :
O2TAII FELLOWSHIP OR LEAVE ABSENCE PERMITTING STAY WESTERN EUROPE.
Q>SCRISES F AS PCET OF BEATNIK BENT BUT | an he {
gNeUI" ~S carne u H : i
%oes, al A pee
\ JUST RETURNED LOND. FROM PEKING HAS PREVIOUSLY TOLD S

THAT F SPOKE AT COMMUNIST RALLIES LOND AND | TOOK PRO-i10SCOW LINE ON :

SINO-SOVIET ISSUES. S KNOWS NOTHING OF THIS AND euestrons |
ACCURACY. : .

10.

APPARENTLY S NOT FOREWARNED F HASTY DEPARTURE.
ile



1 Eve na germm nme omens BS

es cee 7 . a aM

: Wee

DID NOT SPECIFY REASON FOR DEBRIEFING.) LCPIPIT wy TRY CLARIFY.
12. POYCHING FULL REPORT.

13. NO INDEX, a AGS Atemel suet EeatrEedD
SECRET [pPowraest

CFNs 4675 41989 15 al yi s Ropicast F
Pea 1 SEPT s 5 SEP] DITS

EPT S F C/O FORNMIN| F S RE

SF 1960 F WIFE'S NEW YORK CITY Fi SF N¥CL____—‘SF

NOT BECAUSE S KUSARK AGENT S F NON-HARXIST NOT EMOTIONALLY
ANTI-ABERICAN NOT IDEGLOGICALLY NEITHER COMMUNIST NCR ANTI-COMMUNIST
F FAAIX §| _ |HOMOSEXUALITY S F F'S NOT PHYSICALLY S F NOT APPEAR
ceil |F 31 AUG F's NOT CARE S F WESTERN EUROPE

SF NOTHING 11) JA ]
____|5 F PRo-woscow s1No-SoVIET 5 NOTHING OF

a E
S NOT FOREWARNED F S F SOVIET RODIGAST NOT SPECIFY LCPIPIT NO INDEX :
a



ernst steeeraeey

19 eee ranean enensammnmicitetninencnASACEBNSH SCIONS AEH MESO SARA AC

1 September 1965

1: Barector, DIZARS
Vis: —Cantract Approving officer

aot ‘ Qulef of Station, Paris/ICPIPIT

SUMECT: Engagecent of 1, as Independent Contractor

1. Term end Project Change. The subject individual has boen engaged
wader oral contract as a developmental agent for an as yot written Pmiject
involving KUWOLP and KUDESK end coordinated through CRPREY. Subject's
ealary and expensss are to be charged against the BOLINABLE Field Allotaent
por DIR 36066. The effective date of the oral contract is ) Septester 1555,

basis

Clearmce for LOFLUITER (ets DIR 15660).

Gitizmphin. The subject 1s not a foreign national.

4. Compensation. The subject will be paid $600.00 per month. The
gubject will be advised that he cust file a covert income tax return through

|
|
|
i

+ Qperationsl Expenses.

(a) ‘Tho cubject will be reisturved for operational travel, except
es noted in para. 8 below.

(B) ‘The subject will be refabursed for operational expenses,
except as noted in para. 8 below.

6. Other Coomitnente. The following additional comitsents have been
made to the subject: ‘Since security conditions generally preclude the
Se enara ea ce ldcnioe ates ecints oe aetna Ae per diem will be paid
tho rate of $20.00 during periods of authorized travel.” Per Personal
Raling of Chief of Station, Paris/LCPIPIT dated 12 July 1965: “If subject
absent from his howe station on authorized travel for part of one day

CEs

aaa

}

ricii


in
HE (lus Hi ti
al thay Uy]:
FHL

Ef 33
merece
Hale abt E 3
Gane

then
against
So.



snevawnare

aeprpee SP ENN Ea

Bcengeccn Sh 1AM pe POCNE DENS RAE
(eee hoster j
ne

GUSBACATION

DISPATCH —_ seca

© Chief of Station, Paris/LCPIPIT

Cniet,of Statioa, Paris

"thier, KUNOLF

a=

ae 1 Reporting
Gianna en

OFLA-2653

evaluation requested in reference.

information that could be disseminated.

1. OFL-12 and OFL-13 vere passed to the eppropriate Headquarters desk for the

‘The results of the evaluations vere that the reports based on Ms
elicitation contained “nothing more than chit-chat and opiniot: waca uO new

As indicated in the lest sentence

» of reference this result ves not unanticipated by LCPIPIT.
on In view off ‘L's reportorial cepsbilities however, we hope that his

continued efforts to elicit and report timely information will be vigorously

maintained.

o™

Kettle

DISPAT



eecbranres

Sarotertrunner tenn nara seen ereamerate ste met

SECRET

pevoRic/Garnsi/mucesc/ = = ‘Tronsalttel of Background Materials

ESPs O71A-2613, 9 duly 1965
2. Yorvarted herevith is tha folloving material compiled in

eases CALEY ony Syme MEY os Mociue aur WMD A RUE
2 It is likely that wo aball be able to vork up a more
hensive BibLiogrepiy tan whe ena imcluied above (hs cai vill forward
‘tte books os thay become availodle.
bust anniacanenete me) eat vce
Disteieutions a
2 = Ws, Purie/LCPErTT, v/atie., b/v
mma 306052 _ Oran 1.9 AUG 1305
SECRET 20012579
as calor lover (HE EES | aes Ter
2 - Ri/riles (for
200-126-79 rile)
mT ines cx/too «17 Ang 6 (1m arett)

Scene neta a tae

i
:
i
|
i



Chief, LCPIPIT

Chief, WE; Chief, KUDESK; Chief, “KUKOLF

1, JAGUAR, in acknowledging rec:
material that we hav:
information about
should be most grateful for any further identifying particulars
for both and with regard to the latter, ve should
narticularly like to know his tresent nosition in connection with

id whether he still holds
al ia

2. JAGUAR's note was sh IDIGAST in London on 12 August,
just before RODIGAST met with| ‘l. LCPIPIT please provide
anything that can be had for passage to JAGUAR.

3. As should be fairly apparent, I think, from reading the
material we passed to JAGUAR, plus the fact that there has been
no) these many months, the status of anyone
connected with the) is about as uncertain as the status -
of the itsesr. sonetheless, we will be happy to let
JAGUAR know as much as we can.

George H. KATZENBACK

Distribution:
2-Chief, LCPIPIT
3-Chief, WE
2-Chief, KUDESK
2-Chief, KUWOLF

CRSPRTO STAD AND ER ‘ba Wooo
OELA~43, 827 H 16 August 1965

d


Sees,

eration, provides the following
e@ of info, 26 July 1965):

1. » be
report relating to| ti

2. This is for "_background information information only.

ane oe Ge Desrecy ovtsre 4S,

Distribution:

we
KUVOLF
KUDESE
Wa

George H. KATZENBACH

rissa

Jol ~ SOC OSH

ws
12 August 1965

[wos rar mace

{
{
H
t

ond



ODESVY traces on Subject have turned up gmmeral background data
containing no derogatory information.

DISPATCH

epsreauamaeresuesrvasts


"ECRET 2910032
DIR INFO PALP CITE LOND 8835.

F2  PALP 4385 nee
a 4385206 2 LOLS RID
1. LOND aS LONG SUSPECTED LIONEL MORRISON A JAGUAR SOURCE.

~~ WHILE WISH PASS REF INFO, WOULD LIVE WAIT WEEK OR SO TO SEE IF YE - \

GET SAME FROM THEM,

2. REQUEST PERMISSION PASS CAREFULLY SANITIZED VERSION
REF INFO TO JAGUAR ABOUT AUG 10, ‘UNLESS THEY PROVIDE SAME INFO IN

| WUDESK GR PREY

MEANT IME.
3. FIRST SUBJ PARA 2 D REF 1S AUSTRALIAN COMMIE WILFRED

BURCHETT.
SECRET
GFN «8835 4385 LIONEL MORRISON a JAGUAR REF REF AUG 18 2D

AUSTRALIAN COMMIE WILFRED BURCHETT ;
at

9 Tals
DOl- 306052

SER ithe s att es BOMASA AR CE BR

L | Ts



~
One 2eriscoes2~ *
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE -_vorat corsrs

er. ro seancw CJ

}
|
|
1

;
235917638
SECRET 2314222 ae
PALP INFO DIR CITE LOND 8762 lle
#8 KUDESK ORPREY |
i REF: LOND Brealey 738) !
LATER JAGUAR NOTE STATES STEBONY/1, WHO NOW HAS U.K. VISITOR'S : i
PERMIT FOR THREE MONTHS, STATED HIS INTENTION TO GO TO PARIS :
TO GATHER | | . :
. i
SECRET : :
CFN 2762 8728 JAGUAl ht UK PARIS FRENCH GOVT*S : :
BT : : |
i
i {
{
‘|
Zoi 30 OSA :
4 : sean 23 phy cs |
San EEREEEeeeeen ci



—. 1
ny CONFIDENTIMA « =, BBS
leat

16 JUL 1965

0:  ‘Birector
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Hr. 8. J. Papich
FROW: Deputy Director for Flans

supsect: Grace ELivabeth RUSED

CIA Paris has requested that material on Grace Eli:
be made available. Sudject vas bora
She le presently exployed by FAO, Rome, and resides
CIA Weshington traces reveal no
pertinent information cn Mice Russo. It is “nercfore requested that
@ check be made of the Bureau‘s records. 7

cabfi OBR ~ AI7 FE :
pBe-/s07/
DOBR- ¢58°-7 2D

3 oe

~ QNELPENTIA



USITED STATES OPPAREMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

H
1
!
Hy
{
!
i

ea ete

oO Title: GRACE ELIZABETH ANNE RUSSO
LOYALTY OF EMFLOYE=S OF THE
. - UNITE:: NATIONS AND OTHER PUBLIC z :
. INTERKATIONAL CRGANIZATIONS A

7 2 cs
Date and Place: :albany, New York, July 16, 1957.

PROPERTY OF FRI
This report is loaned to you by
the FBI, and neither it nor its
contents are to be distributed

a outside the agency to which
Berea 1 le
. ~ arvte document cootstne settee This 45 an FBI investigetive
Recommendations sot co-lunlond Feport and makes no recommenda
of the FDL It bs the croverty
‘of the FBI. and (s lomned to tion for clearance or disapproval.



ro

pe rer greener ema

nf
ee gp SE

GRACE ELIZABETH ANNE RUSSO i
LOYALTY OF EMPLOYEES OF THE j
UNITED NATIONS AND OTHER PUBLIC
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

Albany, New York
July 16, 1957

BESULIS_OF INVESTIGATION

Professor JOHN K, GALBRAITH, Economics Department,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, presently ;
vacationing at his sumer residence. Newfane, Vermont,
advised on July 12, 1957, that applicant has been his
secretary and general assistant at Harvard University for aaa
the past four years, Professor GALBRAITH said he highly !
recommends the applicant as to character, reputation and estat i
loyalty. He further stated the applicant is a firsterate i
person, very supericr, intelligent, and well qualified for '
the position she seeks, Professor GALBRAITH stated he is
aware of the position the applicant seeks in view of the
fact that he recommended her for this position, _

Professor GALBRAITH was investigated in 1950 as ‘
“JOHH KENNETH GALBRAITH, also known as J. X&NNETH GALBRAITH, i
KENNETH GALBRAITH, Consultant-Appointee, Commodities
Division, Office of the Director, Office of Industry. and
Commerce, United Stateg Department of Commerce, Washington,
D.Ce, = LovaLTy OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES" under the provisions
of Executive Order 9835. On March 2, 1951, the Civil Service
Commission advised that JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH resigned or {oi
otherwise separated from Federal service,prior to decision ! cl
on loyalty. : 7 metssist|



res ge mace megetein

wana

+ mw
DISPATCH »&.
| Ghtef of Station, Parie/LCPIRIT © 5 ai payee pana
\ Chief of Station, Brussels |enoc moore
Chief, KUMOLF

eet
sexe! DxDORIC/QRPREY/

SERN REDE RETTENOS z
REF. OFiA-Z3%1, £2 June 1965

Subject to Brussels Station views, Headquarters believes that
proposal in Reference is a-good one end very consistent with
our interests that he develop his access and acceptability within the
circles of vhich Ref Iden A is a significant figure. We realize that
the picture is a complicated one, and that Iden A of Ref may or may not
yet prove to have the staying power of the successful lriguree
At the same time, it does seem that he is the most
today, and es such merits our attention.

21.

2. With regard to Reference para 4's concern about possible danage
to our national interest by publication of the book in English, ve tend
to side vith in feeling that the support which such a publica-
tion might render to our enemies could not really be detected by the
naked eye. Similarly, wiiie agreeing with the sentiment that
critically scrutinize all proposals by nev assets, ve note that

ie, indeed, supposed to be among his former
associates, and that Ref proposal does not, to our view, contain any
hint which would suggest that in following out this line of action at
our direction, he is motivated by eny ulterior or concealed aim different
from that which led us to impose the commission in the firet place.

attempting to get a rough translation done on a priority

3

basis. of course, shoulé understand that such a translation
Vill be unfinished, und should be carefully revieved for the proper
“feel,” to rule out usage or interpretation vhich jwith his

background, would never have inferred frou the French text. Honethe-
less, as the document hes come to hand only on 2 July, and given the
holiday veekend, the limitation on the number of translators available,
the existence of other translation assignments, end, finally, the pouch
transit time back to Rone, ve regret that it vill not be possible to
get this product to RODIGAST for his 15 July meeting.

Distribution: - ae
CLAYS! P. HURHAD

20: - 306052

rmewte


Chief, KUDESK
"0 Chief, WE; Chief, AP; Chief, KUWOLF; Chief, LCPIPIT; ey tts
“Chief of Station, Algiers . . - 2o1-306052. 1 JEL ES |

TATA
aS ear 43 July 1965

1. Cleaning out some old papers, I ran across a letter from ;
(copies attached). ‘he letter was sean by TIFFANY, RODIGAS?, et al., during |
the busy week they all spent in London, and is sent along now to bring the |
{
i
f

record more or less up to date.
2. A batch of other materials, which arrived through our postal arrangement,
were turned over to TIFFARY, and they are presumably now a part of Headquarters’
records.
: i

nf Gian

Attachnents
Herowith

Distribution:
KUDESK w/att h/w ae ised
Ws w/att b/w i Gee faaeder
AF w/att b/w a‘
KUWOLF v/att b/w :
2QChief, LOPIPIT w/att b/w
2-008, Algiers v/att b/w
>

eek A ee eG eg Gp ees Ne
x 1 EREPUEERN GE UI YEAST RAINE ACO SPAS NEED NH PEA

a


omy

 EFUTD SOREEPene RTA EN HERETO AEE PAH KaMEE NN

ott-|

K

aan

T0e = Chief, wuDeNae
FROs Chief of Sacncl esaumaas
+ Attachment to OELA-43,

ae Eiteebeck, 13 July 1965

I'z pleased you have received at least one of ny letters,

. but I still wonder if you got a large euvelope containing taree
letters which had been hed and returgy-dll at once. As one of
the letters was rather detalled and dealt with matters of soze
importance, I'm rather disconcerted -- to say the least -- toe
to think that it ray not have found its way to you. The envelope
measured 8 by 5 inches and was light tan in color. A confirza-
tion of its receipt would’ be appreciated.

Of course, I understood he the service, the newsletter,
ba e, Ian not looking for
and that seemed to be ones
te also gave me sozetaing to offer contacts =z==utt and would have
strdéngthened my position considerably. At present, is
as light as the Experor's new clothes. :

Still no positive reply from any | in the States,
and the general silence from ny American “friends” is not very
encouraging. Here, the situation is much-better,-and if I can
get to Algiers in good tine, after visiting Grippa and Andersson
and seeing soze contacts in Paris, my position will be better,
but_I still see nyseli representing the or
and/or the | Bars.

even sugsested that I do a short paper~"
back book for them, gathering together the conference docurents
with an azalysise All of tais is better than nothing, but it
definitely isn't much.

On the other hand, for the future)
who has been ere, is returning to

" ("to take over the| ]

He has sucgested that T

for hin, eiter the
try to get to!

2
[wo discuss future projects with him waile
You well know what many and
|think of lat present, so there may not be much
we can do with this arrangement.

This afternoon, I saw at the
Until three months ago, he was at the U.N.

He clains that Verg?s caze to London last Decexber and saw Babu
about re and other ratters, but that Babu was not convinced.
He says he did not know that I was in London until recently -~
- this was our first meeting since the spring of 1964, Now, he
te that he try to get the

Or Les ie scuss

again at juach next EKonday.e It would be a fixed post
in and I can't yet e=x fathom why he is willing to suggest
me for the job. He claizs he has not been in touch with Verges.

CC, oe

t

te eee



PROCESSING ACTION.

DISPATCH | ==

>

Catef, KUDESK
"o
Caief, KUWOLF; Catef, WE
7
Chief of State, Paria/LePIPT
BPR 0 pia

Action requested: Paragraph 5.

1. Career Agent Rufus F. RODIGAST has been briefed by Poria/

ICPIPIT on an ed hoc basis to date regarding information on the
of operational interest to his

oer of f As thd operation progresses, however, it is

hat those handling _——/1_~becoma more knowlodgeable

on the ta the subject of the than’ fl, hisself,

es @ means to ensure the best possible operational guidance to the agent end
_/%® provide another element of agent control--superior knowledge. _ a!

4 2. ICPIPIt's limited files include two basic documents:
wy / attachment to OFLW 630, and Book Dispateh No. #463. We also have selected
JS\Co deceminations and reports or| What
w would be most useful, howsver, would be a collection of reports end analyses,
_\ whether overt or covert, @iscussing the foll. topics: a) Jacaves GRIPPA
\_and the b) the
a (the Esadquarters TPRANSACK o/o has had a file on this

a

a [} ¢) the individual] and their leaders;
bea operations of the individually and
[| settectivery, out of such centers as (at least up to 19 June 1965),
etc/.3 @) national liberation
peeerely Yelations with, and operations out of, the | both! [ ]
Were cance of the z
and selected fronts.

3. We recognize that mich of the information on the above
mentioned topics may not yet be collated, if indeed it is available; however,
we should appreciate reooiving from Headquarters such materials as you feel
would best meet LCPIPIT's operational needs in working:with, yl. of
special valus would be a bibliography of overt writing on the subject, greatly
alleviating the security problem and asre lo; es of bringing RODIGAST and

a large volume of classified reading together, in a secure environment, over
fog - Laborudh

Earvey G.

Jol- 2665—a

wre OUL 91965
9 duly 1965
Wea Fad Oe

200-126-79/3

RPE SERENA ERROR PURINA NDEI

aa

bane

;
j
'


heuer
encul

1. ‘Transmitted under separate cover is a JAGUAR report on
While JaGUAR did not state what the DOI was, JAGUAR's letter was
15 June 1965.

2. b in JAQUAR's para 2 14, should be

ie pes mesh

3. She coments contained in the report ere either consistent
with what| 1 has told us or consistent with whet 1 is
supposed to have been telling other people ~ sometimes both.

Attachments
(use)

Distribptions
eof, KUDESK w/att USC
WE w/att USC

AF v/att USC: - .
LCPIPIP w/att USC
2-COS, Algier :
2@-Chief, KUWOLF w/att USC

QC (= 2OCCS>
phed

2 July 1965

ro


~ emma a pieces

seoial

» Tail, YP ESA
FROKs Chief” of Station, London

Separate Cover Attachment to we ae
OBuAn43,522, 2 Suly 1965 a

att *
4
. cates : 4
Bp
: —: eee

: Richard Thomas GIBSON : ; :

“27 ———"the- following “fiirther“information has cal
_ been received from a secret and reliable source: ~

4) GIBSON eae] ]

4i)



stead Kaoyou wt «MONT

O eo 0 cumor (sere ro_____ ase rus eo

Hoe F Pas reams we, 200-1242156 /2

Ft Es Jer OH, SS, ces

SECRET $3 Bb z - CITE DIRECTOR 90256

Cicprrir INFO LONDON 7
DTDORIC QREBONY

REFS: A, OEPA 90
B, OELA 43237
Cc. LCPIPIT 0619 (IN 38606)

CONCUR $ 100 PER MONTH PAY RAISE FoR Lowowen RECOMMENDED
. TAX SUPPLEMENT WILL BE $70.

REF A, WOULD PREFER EFFECTIVE DATE 1 JULY 67.

ak

2. TO SATISFY ADMIN REQUIREMENTS, PLS PROVIDE AMENDMENT TO

: LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING REF B, REFLECTING THIS AND OTHER INTER-

MEDIATE RAISES GRANTED conc as n SINCE DATE REF B.
3. WOULD ALSO PREFER ABOVE RAISE BE GIVEN QREBONY/LIN THE .

PLS ADVISE. sie

., BELIEVE THIS WOULD BE APPROPRIATE TIME SATISFY QREBONY/1

“orvious QUESTIONS, REQUEST HE BE SPECIFICALLY QUERIED St j-3
xe

Pi eiemmer
suede arene] ES]

we eee pee

"CLEARANCE REQUIREMENT FOR PERIODIC SCSWIRL, IN ADDITION? 3
3 Ie P Ft.
6 0F a

~. REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. rr KO, 5



eon) cmon = () eww ra ef] ras co

DO wan OC mmame.

Pace Two v a

: RE (AL KNOWLEDGEABILITY Has wire AND AMSQUAW/A REGARDING HIS WOFACT

: AND OR LNFORT CONNECTIONS AND ) HIS ESTIMATE THEIR RESPECTIVE

: acceptances | i iar

5. , DISPATCH, ORIGINALLY | PREPARED TO INCORPORATE ABOVE

CONCURRENCE, FOLLOWS WITH ADDITIONAL COMMENTS,
- END OF MESSAGE

iia SECRET | =

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE SUDO OFFICE 5 Px



SECRET

4 APR 1367

MEMORAKDUM FOR: Contract Persoonel Division
SUBJECT: QREBONY/1 - MOC Amendment
REFERENCE? OFLE - 1699, -1 November 19€6
1. Effective 1 September 1966, the KOC of QREBONY/1
was amended to provide compensation of $746.00 per month.

2, Please see attached reference for the salary break-
down.

3. We regret that due to an administrative oversight, this

Signed

enter; CA Support ed

<a

Attachment:
OFLY - 1699

DDP/CA/Pers/ (30 March 1967)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - OF/APB/CAgS)
1 ~ CA/Pers

SECRET weg ot

. : He
@emorandum was not submitted at an earlier date.

i
i.
i


ee eo a a SRT !
tones conc, + & i
—s Perri ae =—— i

By yanca 1967

» Corres noo Lémmos
BODORIC QRABONY QEDPERA
_ 7 RB Leprerr ong (mm 2:17)

fk

"opens =(__(@aegra)
LF) RBC) 4 }

| =e] Leh a

Se ay _ er THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS os


H
a

Toran? (ted)
pi: Riad Theos Gibson
i E : i no Bugle qe



FIQCESSING ACTION.

73

chief, HOVIDd

|

— II

a |
|

Chief, EW; COS, London; Chief, WOMJSE

oo Chief, LCPIPIT
sasct_ DIDORIC/Operational

RPREY, N¥/Institution
RETORREQUERD RFT,

Referencesr LCPIPIT-£161
DIRECTOR-66211, naragrach 3

GREBONY/1's at least as a i
paper organization to allow him to aét close to
and asa rather than i
(REBONY/1 feels that if not done right this could cause trouble,
because of usual organizational rivalries. He is thinking of i
beginning by | of

the statement on) Which anpeared in

the 6 December
He would use a pseudonym to sign his statement, but would let
all his friends know that the pseudonya was really himself, and
he might use address. Perha>s Grippa would agree to
circulate or print it. If this statement goes over, CREBONY/1
could escalate into a small organization. He will show RODIGAST
a craft of his statezent, but also will discuss it with Manchanda
| for "ideological purity".

| At their 15 March meeting, GREBOSY/] and RODIGAST discussed

Distribution
a 3-C/WOVIEN
2-C/MOMUSE
1-C/EUR
2-C0S/London

‘oxre
20 March 1967

WOSRERAR

200~124-156/3

|
\
' } : | : 22 2.2 067
\

Leen


oo

__PEGEESSING ACTION
UST FOF MOK

Chief, WwvIEW 2% | noe eee

my QUALITED OLSE.
COS, London; Chief, EUR Cece

—
Chief, LCPIPIT Heese

wexet DTDORIC/Operational
QREBONT/Salary Raise for QREBONY/1
OUND: RRDES

ETON

1. At the time of his recruitaent in June 1965, QREBONY/1 was told that h
$600 monthly tax-free salary would be raised to $600 once he got a | in a
vhich of course vas the goal of his planned sumer activity in

2. Through no faule of his own, thi assignaent (and other possibil-
ities, cuca ) evaporated shortly thereafter. Meanwhile, WOFACT changed
ite signals and eventually decided to base QREBOKY/1 in Europe targeted against
individuals end groups in various countries.

3. From the beginning, QREBOWY/1 has proved wore than satisfactory as an
agent. He hae carried out assignments given to hin with knowledge and tact
the proper spirit, has used bis own initiative as euch as our guidance, and has:
not violated our instructions, %o one will argue that ne hasn't proved to be
better than we collectively thought he would be, and in terms of his om
abilities—apart from targets which may or say not be accessible to hin—he is
getting better all the tize,

4 Last year, about a year later than QREPONY/1 cizht have expected his
salary to go up from $600 to $800, we raised it to $70, He was pleased, and he
fas not conplained as much as he used to about a shortage of funds. (Presumably
QREBONY/1 is responsive to the generally good treatment he has had, to the i
respect for hin as on iudividual and tie appreciation of hie services; probably
he is carried along as such by his om personal satisfaction in knowing he is
weeting requiresents and continually breaking new ground.)

5S. Kevertheless, LCPIPIT believes the time has coue to raise QREEOKY/1's
salary to the pronised level, We can all agree that ve are still setting bis
services cheap; QREBOXY/1 receives no quarters, living allowance, or educational
allowance for his children, His increased gratitude, the relief he will undoubt-
edly feel at being able to reduce his present financial vorries, are more than
worth the extra $100.

(continued)
Distribution:



CORSON

CONTINUATION OF SECRET

DISPATCH

6. If Headquarters agrees, the \QRPURE (whose

in this event). CRPURE coeld write
‘to QREBONY/1 expreesing bis pleasure at the results of syndication of QREEONY/1"s
raterial, and enncuncing that the sonthly fee will go up to $200; alternatively,
QREBCHY/1 could write to QRPURE saying be feels the sum sbould go up, and QRPURE
would reply affirmatively.

P. F. CILIBERTI

CRSSIEATION

SECRET



AFF. GIBSON C/VERGES =

Monsieur ct Madame GIBSON
30, Stockloign Mall

bert Road

8 -(Grande Brotagne)-

!
\
1
he
a

P “Sg n® 719%

ro

2



.

asd pe

Charon |

ce? aa at} 4, Reed

ReEBow 4 ce 5



DBB 71942, 25 January 1967 100-300-004

Abstracted from pages 38 and 37

q. Ata meeting held on August 14, 1966, STANFORD mentioned that

Rbbert Williams allegedly has $1,000,000 available for the use of RAM. :

NY T-10 advised on September 26, 1966, that STANFORD prior to moving

to Philadelphia on September 18, 1966, discussed RAM and ROBERT F, WILLIAMS

with him, According to the source, STANFORD has alleged WILLIAMS has money : :

available for RAM.

During the course of the conversation, STANFORD stated that the contact man

between RAM in the US and R. Williams! is one Richard GIBSON in) :
STANFORD stated that GIBSON passes on messages from WILLIAMS and will be, the

man coatacted by whoever is designated as a courier to go to to get the money.

Source also stated that he was told Richard GIBSON was living in the

(phonetdéc),

and was working out of thi ]



i

keane a ahicaS paroretciaiamwinestensteianceinti a6 0? hp aio sea piles

OBB -G/48D

SECRET
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Ia Reply, Please Refer to WASBINCTON, D.C. 20535

Fila. (18) 105-93072
BY LIAISON -

Date: October 24, 1966

To: Director
Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

Thea: John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subject: “RICHARD GIBSON
INFORMATION CONCERNING

A source of this Bureau who has furnished reliable
information in the past recently advised that during the
Fall of 1966, a member of an Italian pro-Chinese Marxist-
Leninist organization stated that one Richard Gibson was
suspected of being a spy for the Central Intelligence Agency.
According to this individual, Gibson recently had been in

in the company of a female secretary from Paris,
whose home is in New Rochelle, New York. At that time
Gibson remarked his travel and activities were possible
because he had married a wealthy English woman, Other things
were said which aroused the suspicions of the Italian.”

According to our source, the Italian pro-Chinese
Marxist-Leninist subsequently relayed his suspicions concerning
Gibson to Rene Raindorf, a member of the Central Committee
of the Communist Party of Belgium (Marxist-Leninist).

IE

Gibson although he had indicated the Belgian pro-Chinese
communists would look into the charges of the Italian Marxist-

Leninist.

CS copy

SECRET
Group 1
Excluded from automatic

ading and
@eclassification

Jor- S0€ os 2

i
i
a

ee

aaaal



o MESSAGE FOR
yorat comin 3

Ae ie ifops, i Pls rey arr mune
Sn Eni ARS FICE THEFT NORTE
reece ee UBT ORT
4 as'Z CITE DIRECTOR {.°  - : Hs
veP item nro loxox : fae : al ‘

“REP: LePIET? 7388 (Di 63420) ieee
DTDORIC QR=Z0NY : :

i. RZ REF PARA 7? DESK REP 127 CREEONY FOR ASSESSMENT WITd VIEW TOWARD
fi: ths POSSIGLE LATER USE ACALIST| TANSIT, DISCUSSION WAS GENERAL

 PROBDNG OF CPZBOIY RELATIONSHIP AND ESTD“\TS KAS HER PERSONALITY, WHILE QREBONY MAY
HAVE BAFERRED POSSIBILITY RELATED operanity acer co:assmmM, WORACT REP AVOIDED
" SUSGESTING SUCH WAS PLARED MICH LESS DAiGiav?. IN FACT, DESK HAS NOT DEVELOPED.
SUC DADAILED WQS PLANS FOR CREDO OPERATION __—_—~/ GIVEN UNCERTAINTIES Tt”

E TEVELOPIG SITUATION OM GROUND, WHET AD I? CLOAR FOCUS SUCH OPCRATION WORKED OUT
“AND AGREED wita STATION,| pred WOULD PRESUMABLY BS FIRST STEP.
" WACLE SUCH TRIP MENTIONED TO GREO:Y AS PROBABLY USEFUL, EMPHASIZED TO

QRESONY THAD VISTHME 1S TOP PRIORNIY AY THIS TDS. STRONGLY FEEL HE SHOULD SIT
MIGHT AND PLAY OUD THIS STRING WITEOUR PLANING FOR EXTENSIVE| _|SwINuS, PARTICU- ~
C* DARLY AFTER HAVDIG JUST RETURYED Frost ald WOLADY OY. WITH VIET TRIP AND| ]

MORE DOEDIATE HIGHER PRIORITY TARGETS CLOSE 10 EOME AT THIS TDR, SEE.

coonomats |

REPRODUCTION BY [__erenes THAN THE ISSUING _) ee s
TATE Tre

ener


~ MESSAGE Foss
i TOTAL Copies:
Orne mp” [ eeeeeneerrerrererre |
Beck s2enzi
Deo wore i
Grucmes eens.

CITE DIRECTOR 32) 95
is PER AIDA 1909 Or rE oR Lous STAY, wa ACOOMPAIZEG COVER AND CONTACT PROBLEMS,
* AND LIDICATIONS OF PHOVGZAH EOSTILIZY, NATURS AID EXTENT OF WHICH WE CAIOT IMMEDIATELY
ASSESS. EQS VERY SATISFIED WITH QRISOUY PERFORMANCS AND DEVELOPMENT 80 FAR. WHILE
UUDEASEAND HIS TRXPERENTAL INCLUIATION TO PRESS FOR ACTION X3 ASSIGNMENTS INVOLVING

SINE CONSTANTS LEFT they
TRAVEL, HS SSOULD BS ASSURED, IP NICESS:ARY, THAT SUCH SeorsmaraoN ONYESA HOT NEEDED

: AND NOT ALHAYS Dl BEST INTEXSSTS PROJECT DIVELOFMaRT. aa if SEE
. Be Rep PARA 63 WELL, BE POUCEITG LonoZR REPORTS ON QREBOUTY VISIT HERE WATCH =
TOLAYED BUCAUEZ OF PRESSURE OTHER VOT. KUISCIQAYER RETURNED TO QREBONY ORIGLIALS
* purean AND OTHER CORRESPONDENCE ES LENT, EU2 SONDIIG COPIES WB Ex@ MADS Or THESE
A%D REPORTS HS SUEMITISD ON WOLADY CONTACTS BY TRANSMITTAL MANIFEST 722028. it
YES. -¥2 WOULD SUEOUOLY PRZER THAD RAISE BS MADE AVATLASLE

WATCH Wz WILL EXGSc? ARRANGE {00N (arms -

“CUBARATGR OY O73 INDIVIDUAL “=D WOULD HAVE 10 3B CUP Ti), CAN YOU MAKE DiRBCr ~ -

PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Loe saryeers,



wenn

25AcGH63490-
. SECRET 251622Z CITE LCPIPIT 7388 (CILISERTI. ACTING) :
j DIRECTOR INFO BRUSSELS, THE HAGLE
DIDORIC OREBONY
t 1. RODIGAS1
23 AUGUST. BALANCE Wo

(Re GREBONY/1
i REPORTING BEING POUCHED
| AS WELL AS NEW RPORTS. © PLANNING TRAVEL PARI
H BRUS-ROTTERDAM POSSIBLY FRANKFURT, VIENNA 2-12
SEPT. ROD WILL MEET Q ANTWERP 8 SEPT.

“2. ROBERT WILLIAMS IN LETTER TO Q
25 JULY FROMPEKING SAID HOPES PE EUROPE LATER IN
YEAR PROBABLY GOING SWEDEN TO MAKE SPEECH. ALSO

@) AS SCHEDULED

ADVISED HE NAY TRY PUSLISH CRUSADE FROM PEKING
AND ASKS Q'S HELP WITH DISTRIBUTION. aTTACKED

HYPOCRITICAL RACIST CUBANS. (THIS INFO SEING

pissextnateD>. _ .-... SECRET



Pete ae aoe

{Pace 2 Loprpit 7388 SECRET
3. 0 THINKS ENTRY NORTH VIETNAM 4AY BE
DIFFICULT AT PRESENT BECAUSE OF MILITARY
SITUATION AND PROBABLE NORTH VIETNAMESE DESIRE
NOT TO ENTERTAIN ELEMENTS OPENLY HOSTILE SOVIET
|

UNION. LIONEL MORRISON SAYS WILLIAMS CAN'T GO
HANOI AT PRESENT. RICHARD WARD TOLD FINEMAN

ENTRY WOULD BE DIFFICULT. GRAY IN SAN FRANCISCO
-SAID HIS TOUR POSTPONED INDEFINITELY BECAUSE

OF MILITARY SITUATION.
A. AT KATZENBACH SUGGESTION 0 MADE PRECISE
[ AND

ONDON: 26° AUGUST WHICH KATZENBACH IN-
SFORMING JAGUAR TO ALLOW SURVEILLANCE.
> +S, RE DIR 26709, Q HOPES OBTAIN FURTHER .

STOMA REE

INFO MOCK TRIAL FROM RALPH ROSENSAUM, US
|pur
WHO OPPOSED TO TROTSKYISTS. Q°S STRATEGY IS

E AS RIFE WITH CONFLICTS AND

-INFILIRATED BY TROTSKYISTS.
SECRET



r

PRATER TIS, area on

/ _ | sn ae c\
fe : "SECRET

fp PASE 3 LCPIPIT 7388 SECRET

6. POUCHING FULLER REPORT Q CONVERSATIONS
SUTHERLAND NEW YORK WHICH @ TOLD KAMMERMAYER BY
PHONE. SUTHERLAND INSISTED =| HAS NOT

{
i
i
t
i
t

ACCEPTED INVIT AT ION.
7. IF NOT SENT, PLEASE CABLE DETAILS
HOS PLANS FOR 0 OPERATION |INVOLVING

[____|piscusseo vITH @ AT HOS. WOULD THIS BE
“IN FRAMEWORK 0 VISIT AND APPROXIMATELY
WHEN? WHERE DOES THIS PLACE TRIP,
NOT MENTIONED TO g BY Hos?
8B. ASSUME HOS POUCHING ALL @ VOLADY REPORTING AS WELL

CORRESPONDENCE. FOR EXAMPLE 9 HAS NO COPY LETTERS
FROM ON PARIS SITUATION WHICH SUBMITTED
KAMMERMA YER.

9. CAN RAISE OF $128 IN O TAKE-HOME AFTER .
TAXES EE MADE EFFECTIVE 1 SEPTEMBER? PLS CABLE /
=

WHEN BEGINNING DEPOSITS SO CAN NOTIFY Q.

SECRET Yom ).
ale /

SECRET



~—e

WRORANION FOR: Chief, CI/0A

GURJECTs FielA frases on QKERIUYy4 201-306052

‘This is to inform you that there vere no additional traces on
GRESONY/1 from the Field Stations--Algiers, Rome, Peris, or London. Negative

traces from Prenkfurt Station.

& duly 1966

20 I- 300052



- of ist secaeRYBA”
Chief of Station, Parie/icPIrI?

Chief, KUWOLP

S®*°' POA for QREBONY/1
ACTION REQUIRLD - REFERENCES

Mone, information only

Attachment:
bw

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - 08, Paris/LCPIPTt w/att.

DESPRTON SYMBOL AND MUMEER
OFIH-1591.

Ss ft :
rents RYBA
a a

1 - RI v/o att.
~ 2 = enc w/o att.

 HESEEEASESESE ESTEE PEETESOSEESESIENOET 1 25S cat DESIST SEE OSPR
Gras wsa[oATe ay

== Dossrarcr]



9. This requast is not for

20. Bo raletive is witting for cuch emergmcy contact, nor is Benefite
end Coumpeling Branch involveseat applicable im this caso.

22. Bone.
‘22. Agant bas served in tim U.S. Amy, is not now aligible for induction.
13. Spouse fs not uitting ani not clearahle.
De Operational Information
be yee of Operation. Fe cee oes Stora be considered.

rether thes
| Bo ome, other then those

ae
indicated, are to be mnie witting.

& lLecation: Ts sgt is to reside in bith @ posettle altersstive
ce

a 3. The Agnat ehoulé be free to visit = {
[ | eal | as well as |
endl |Bepessible to anticipate the tines or duration of ewh visits,
Which will, however, be at his (ani our) contrel. |
Re Special groups Agen’ ahowld be able to contacts: Mot applicable.
Se Aggroxtantaly $2,500 to $3,000. ee. ee
6. Bot epplicable.
4. Csmmairations ehaanals Cesired: ione.



SECRET

IX {he arrongemnt between tho cover firm and QREBONT/1 should be on the basis
of 8 regular subvention to CRUSONE/1 to act as
AQ agreement mving
ostensibly entered into by Wy GEIR/A wa tin cover firm daring the former'e
Akg olioesd bg (capected sround 20 duly), 4 remiler monthly check should
be forvmaried to QRZBOHY/1 by the cover firm, along vith eny correspondence

TEE The following steyo are proposed to eet this cover in ation:
Ase At a moting on 6 July, QROROSY/1 will be instructed to urite a mambar
of ¥.8, news media organizations stasiag that he expects to travel to

‘the U.8, shortly, deseribing his news background amd indicating he would
be interested 1a developing som cutlets for bis writing. tus cover

lstter end,

% to our direction, writes ém easvor stating 2) what his fim
Fedelurue com of GREBONY/1's axpmtses if be could com? to Gricsgo te”
discuss the matter further.

CG. GuTRT/2 does not meet the contact im the cover organisation. He is
briefed to offer tho story, on his return, that km bad entered inte a
‘sich bs is to recaive a monthly retcinere

Be Any letter GREEOEY/1 aay later viss to send to the cover firm should
be gives to us in copy proferobly before it is sent.

B. Copise of any correspomiense iaitiated by the cover fins shoulé be me
- @vellable to CIA and, particularly, to the Praject Cause Officer. *

ener. |



iG:
:
{ MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans
vA: Chief, ccs/nc
SUBJECT: Request for Approval for Operational Use of
= QREBOWY/1
|
| 1. ‘This memorandum submits a recomendation for your approval pursuant
| to CSI 240-6, 10 January 1963, paragraph 6, governing operational involvement
i [
| “GREBONY
Faaaaaaaaaaaaaamnnn —
1 [ | |_GREBOHY,
|
Ssssisessoebossiled
2. QREBONY) [
1
| |
{

A0)- 306 OSQ

cheat DMEF ONE oO

sp tage a af



SECHET

QRESORY,

ual

~~ SEORET



i
i
H
\

SECRET

arrangements “or this purpose.

Chief
Covert Action Staff

{
|
|
|
| stole
|



= SECRET =~

%7 sun 385
MEKORANDUM YOR: Director of Finance
vias Contract Persennel Division
SUBJECT: ~ QREBONY/1 - Anendment of Memorandum of
ae Oral Counitwent

1, The Bemorandunm of Oral Commitzent with QREBONY is
amended effective 15 June 1966 to provide indemnification in
the anount of $10,000 in case of death, and payment of $600
per month up to $10,000 to his wife in case of total incepaci-
tation or disappearance,

2. It is anticipated that a trip planned for late
= or early fall will take QREBONY into
Indem—
nification is intended to apply to death or disability
resulting from air accident, act of war, or for disappearance.

3. without being able to specify the possible circum-
stances, it is intended that such indemnification as outlined
above be deezed to apply to loss of life or functions suffered
by QREBONY as a diroct result of his KUSARK relaticnship dur-
ing the trip. Such indemnification, if made, must be presented
to his widow by a/ | KUBARK in-
volvement.

Bigned|

cA ae Contract Approving Officer

CA/PERS, (24 Jun 66)

Distribution:
2 - Addressee
1 - cpp
1 - CA/Pers
1 - CA/Chrono

rm

i
;
|



ea

. Pow
Chief of Station, Paris/LCPIPIT

a

DISPATCH

Chief, KUDESK; Chief, EUP

‘watGry: DIDORIC/ Operational

QRPREY/QREBONY/Photo of QREBONY/1 and Contact
“ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Forwarded under separate cover is a photograph of QREBONY/1 with one

of his contacts.

Attachment usc
Photo use

Distribution
——"3-C/KUWOLF w/att use
2-C/KUDESK w/o att

1-c/EUR w/o att



¢
fey)
~
Pom
7 / 7
~~!
~~ %
l,i 3
ok 35
eu e
Ss 2 3 \
go 2 2 a
Boa 4 9
‘
Q
8
pe |
_=
{ofA 3703 ol
ae tee ee



SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chie?
ca/cF { a

REFERENCE:

rs Yerorandm, Dated

10 February 1365

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted fer the use of this Subject
as set forth belo-.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued bv CI Staff grants the saze
authority, ca a temporary basis, fer the use of on individual as tie authority
granted in an Operational Approval wmless otter:ise specified? by CI/QA. It is
based, hovever, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and fs sub-
ject to a further final reviev when all investigation is carpleted.

(2) Requirements passed to Subject will be confined, insofar as it is opera-
tionally feasible, to instrictions for the refinement and compleveness of the reporting
he is capable of providing from his normal intercourse with sourze personalities.
Disclosure of classified information will be held to e minipum, he vill not be siven
operational assiganen:s supporting or servicing other AU:ARK’ Speraticas, nor will he
participate directly and/or viztingly in che spottin: ead/or recraicneat of other ageat¢.

(3) In addition to this baceground, certain of Subject’s past statenents and
behavior are inconsiscent with, and give rise to en uncertainty about, che naviire and
degree of his presenzly professed motivations and loyaivies. It is impossible to
resolve this uncertainty with the xnowiedse now available. At the present time,
therefore, it is believed that his bona fides have not been established to an extent
which vould warrant handling him in any vay cham "at arms lengtn".

D*to process the Operational Approval, full information (ccepleted PRQ\
Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and nct later than six |
|

H

(6) wonths fron this date. An Operational Approval will follow vhen all
investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PPQ Parts I
and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Di-
visions ceases.



6 case has been discussed in decail on se:
33 oF CI/tk, CI/I0G, end CA/CZ and there
because of Suoject's taszjround and vonsacvs tL
is velieved, i2 he is neadied wath circus? benefits to be derived
gustify the security riszs involved in chs 3 thin che limicr set
forth above.

(5) Folygraph is recomended at least once a year.

/s/ Edsard P. Brown



ii |

(an ECL tn)

PERTINENT INFORWAT ION

OF TEIS 201

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

£904 B67 use Pervious corrions.



7 : 7 +e

oa ah
DISPATCH
% niet of Station, London (ATH. KATIEN-<4, fam 1 .
°° cnief, KINOLE

™ Cnlef of Station, Paris (LCPIFI?)

L At bis 6 April meting with ROPIGAST, QREBONY/1 pointed out thet his
brother-‘nalew (ene accountant) still thinks that URSBOHT receives reguias Some /
from on \ and pit
wnteclared for tex reasons (EEBONY's and the| tx) fe

2 RODIGAST thought that if the brotboreinelay finés this story hard to
believe he rey guess that GREBORY is really working for KUBARK end may have passed
this information on to the ‘Tas he would be the source of the story
relayed in reference. i

33

3. At the came reeting, on another subject, RO! asked GREBORY vbethor
he had ever tolé anyone pointhlank that be (@REBORY) ic Reent. Be said
that he vever hed. RIGA? broke in: “or the agent of any other country,
fmeluding CDYOKE?" GREBONY said he had not. =

SECRET



°

PHOCESSING ACTION,

70
Chief, KUWOLF Ee AID 608 2¢A no wocune esque

wo Cher 7 FO; COS, | ef Al -
COS, Lonion; + wey Cnaec, MUESK; COS, Roney rout jen poet wocune

aos
Chief of Station, Paris/LCPIPIT

‘sexe? DIDORIC/Operational :
RPREY /OREVONY /QREBONY/1's New Contact,
TERM RQURED TTR

1. We are manifesting reports and correspond
foe age 31, born in|

whose father's last name was|

lier husband's name is

(exican), but she is separated from him and he 1s sceking a divorce.

DISPATCH seenet eee

hurt her chances of getting a renewal of her passport.

2. Subiect had been having a series of political and amorous affairs during

her stay ft land was in serious trouble when Q met her. After rejecting Dennis

Phorbeah's advances, she was in serious danger of being declared a prohibited
immigrant; Q befriended her, and he and Colman Ferrer of the! Embassy (who
had been having an affair with her) saw that she got out of safely. Q was =
to meet her in Cairo (but in fact had no intention of doing so) and later caught

up with her in Rome, She indicated a desire to work with Q (without quite knowing

for whom she would be working--he hinted rather broadly tu her that he was in
cahoots with “our friends in the East,” but it will be noted that in one of her
letters there is this disarwing phrase: she warns him about how to deal with

certain persons and adds: “ie cool with thea—do not show your true colors (what-

ever they are)").

3. Q sefzed on the opportunity of using subject as | 2
and eventually agent on the same basis, She submitted to an interview on tape
in a Rome hotel room which lasts about 2-1/4 hours, in whicn Q debriefs her on
her knowledge of every with
whou she had contact, and in view of her attractiveness and willingness she knc

we shall edit out-of the tap y.

Distribution .: eae ee erat
3-C/KUWOLE eo : ae
 2-c/supesk
2-COS/London
2-€O! : :
2-0: eae e a
2-COS/Cairo pees
1-C/wE
1-c/E
_1-c/ar

“QUite_a few. (She had some amusing eun-ine-w YOKE personnel in| waic!
ye only For a fee.) mites

~ MAR 31 19665
30 March 1966

wos an maasen ~

200-124-156/3

|

eset



Pa anon Gr TELASSIFICATION
DISPATCH ‘SECRET

4. Q feels that she is enotionally unstable--his firmess in dealing vith
her, his making if clear he was not out for er body, have made him a guardian
and true friend. She seems to be a good political reporter, understanding ber
own (confused) political yearnings and where her various contscts stand; she :
also scems to have good memory for details. Q says that her “anti-revisionisn”
is incipient anti-Coomunism, He could eventually recruit her as an ODYOXE witting
Sgent, but that would take a lot of time and trouble; with mich less cffort he
could effect 3 and indeed, he nas already done this on an
informal basis by making it clear that he was for nis
friends, She vould undertake further assignnents for aim. tie actually asked her,
“Suppose I asked you to go souevhere, would you go?" To which she replied, "If
it's not cold." It is unlikely, however, that she would be able to return to
‘because of Phombeah's hostility. Wherever she goes, her uain asset will be her
physical attraction.

5. She could be debriefed further on any point raised in the tape interview.
The ideal would be to have the questions by the time Q goes to Rome in the second
half of April, but this does not seem to be a likely possibility.



&

é
#
é

came He NN ee CRN EERSTE ESE A

Chief, KUNOLF
Chief, WZ; Chief, KUDZESK; Chief, LCPIPIT

saect DTDORIC QRPREY CREEONY
Relations with JAGUAR

Ref: LOND 2425, 2 March 1966

1. A nunber of lengthly and fruitful discussions have
been held with JAGUi regarding our continued
running of GRIEONY Taeir comments on the
quality of CRIZONY's reporting hay2been reported from time
to time. Similarly, we will not dwell here on the nechanical
arrangements we have evolved (with SXOTH's agreement) to
expedite the passage of information to JAGUAR, on the one
hand, and avoid duplicate reporting (prinicpally by passing
the sane materials as CS dissems to SMOTH) on the other
hand, Suffice it here to say that achieving both of these
goals, without compromising C2DECNY as a source throughout
both JAGUAR and SMOTH (due largely to the wide range of

is a complex problem. Ve think we
have reached 2 mutually satisfactory arrangemont for
achieving both ains,

2, What we are concerned vith here, then, is JAGUAR‘s
ARON SY, for the tine

being oe peast. The east hRasing arom! ee han Jetter,

‘our request th regard tinued
NY’ i while

we have no objection to this
provided we are kept fully informed of as much detail as
possible,”

3. JAGUAR crzzony |

\Ji.GUAR*)

(itt

DAGUAR |

CREBORY
a) a

ONY



Ea RTCR STOEL

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

OELA-45, 254

4. This, then, reflects the state of our relations
with JAGUAR as it relates to CRESONY, Ve trust that this
will be of value to Headquarters and LCPIPIT in planning
QREBOSY's future.

as
EA

Distribution:
2-Chief, KUSOLF
3-Chiet, "3
2-Chief, KUDSSK
2-Chief, LCPIPIT



SECRET

MEDORA FOR: Cafef, Central Cover Staff

ew

| si

As CQcucrcl Zaformtion

1. QaEnoMr/i (previously carried as| \. Bo previous request has
effictally been forvarded for ]

@ Currently a Contract Agent. a eee
$7,200 por year with @ $2200 nonaccountable allovencs.

is ee ee ca et es os ee ed

esccemmat ezi evalustions Staff. He is already overeeas ond will
rexain there.

|
ke ‘Ene Agest uses 0 complex of related) =~—~S~S~S*=~inned primarily om ~ {
-Seaacareted tzoMeation: of facts Eomely, that bis| | from |
emd moncy available fron his wife's fexily. Sama
qusrters ceapect ox balieve that he may possess funds from thal (but: |
this has never been alleged by the Agent himself.
jain i i
3. Agent is sveilable nov for - :
6. Agzat 1s overseas.
Yo GREBORY Project. oe

Be Biogmghic Inforeation i

2, DOB: 13 My 1931, Los Angnles, Californias Mj Hegre} Hone; U.8.3 Ho
Brio citioneahips weriod 3 childrens 30 Btockledgh Bald, Prince

* @ AGalt and edmor dopendents are alresdy in place ent eharing the seme
residence. Bo readily availedle bicgraphic informtien. He has 2 sons
end one dengkter, renging in age fram one to tco years.

I ok EBewt on fle



Fry

tw
&

Security Considerations

»

“3 ¥

ie se

SECRET,

4 ed

‘BA Exayon College 19503 Foreign exratunte stuty 1951-52.

Reporter, Afro American 1950; Kiscallonsous: public
relations—Tiali Exports 1 1952-58 U.S. Armys 1957-58
Agence Pranco Preass, Pariss 1960-61 CB5 news, Hew Yor':.

aA,

Percaptive, aggressive but effective in personal relationships, liternte.

Agent has fairly sizeable, but not pressing, debts to his in-laws. He
lives modestly within his incone fran use

Ene resided cely in U.8., Aleters, Paris end Lontsn, although be has H
travelled widely in other areas.

Vizuat is French, coupetent in Itelinn esf Spanish, and can read German.

f>-preppdlone inguin is Jphing publi Dowty FOA granted 23 Hay 1966
poe poy soso gap chy yore ithe wp inemypitior persalierfen fori
gation devaloped es a result of the Agants‘pact association with left-wing. 4
end redical orgnisetions. i

Agent 1s ware of 6.8, intelligence interest, bes net bom explicitigy
apprised of CIA incrolvement tut no cout suspects it. {

Agpet bas never entered any inctallations associated vith CIA.

‘There is no U.S, identification of tha Agmt with CIA outside of staff
_______[eee paregryph 5 balow). His vite

whose family resides in io wmitting.

‘Tho Agint to know tn tres name to

Bone. It should be noted that the comtemplated cover will not be a

Felationship viich the Agent (any nore then the covar) vill prociein or
pnb food pli eyed tama entail ar Povas Siang od |
would i

wud



SECRIT
fo
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE BO.

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

201- 306057 200-124-156/02
Sex x OOR ? PAL POE LL
30 WAR 66

cit?
, nce 2
2 Suna PPTS HES FAMILY SITUATION CLFFICUIT

BCAUSE MUST LEAVE APT 1 JUN AND PAKES

LOT GF DIFFERENCE WHETHER MOVE TS PERMANENT
TALLORING LONG-TERM ACVANTACEUS LEASE GR
PURCHASE/OR TEMPURARY. +

'

R GGOSTLO149



v0
Cakef, KUOLF
ee ome issn tos

tom :

Chief of Station, Paris/LCPIPIT 5

‘saxcU DIDORIC/Operational i -
Assessment of QREBONY/1

ACTION BLQUBED - REFERENCES

Ref: OFLW-1494

1, Forwarded herewith is a 6-1/2 page answer by RODIGAST to the questions
posed in reference. If any further clarification is required by Headquarters,
please advise.

2, ‘ith regard to QRESONY/1"s overt tax return, it has been determined that
declarations ust be filed by all citizens with over $609 income, If it turns
out that QREBONY/1 cannot justify a $600 inccne from overt sources, and we think
he cannot, he simply has no declaration to file and will be advised to so state

te the Embassy.

Zeus
[ih aioe ja
‘Karen d, ZAFFARESI

Attachnent b/w
‘As stated above

Distribution
/KUWOLF w/att h/w

i

‘DISPRTCH SYIBOL AAD HOMER
OFLA-3627



ia

SLEDS AES NS ee REISE ANI STROH BP Pe EEE CE RRM IP MEE NEUE

Pref OF p- Fe2z7

 Gihaitiarn tent mermmatmst

L

A. QR-BURY/1 (Q) gives the convincing impression that he is at hone
in his new work. Ee responds ell to su;-2stions and instructions, adds
sugg+stions of his own for icproving the slan-- an indication that he
wishes to please. in the begirring he shoved a tenuency to raise minor
objections involving personel asterial problems (e.;., inconvenience to
family life oi a long tdy) tut less of this was renarked as he cane to
realize that requirezents were to be reasonable and he was to te treated
as a teman being with his om oroblems.

He has stated that ke xould not continue his present involvement
with target personalities and institutions if it were not that we wish
hin to, i.e., his om inclination would te to withdraw srom the political
fringe. Rodigast feels that this is consistent with his background,
which was not a party career; in his youth he was willfully apolitical
end hostile to the "ovenent"; later he wes involved in ocposing party
people in his Kew York work; in Faris he didn't get along wit: fis party
friends (the affair of the forged letter) and o: course broke with the
magazine crowd there.

He seems to be genuinely committed to working against enemies
of CDYKS, ready to accept even deeper commitment; he has expressed
no reservations as to what he xill do, He doesn't object to report:
on old :riends, fellow :BPRIULIS, et al. Ee raised no objection to
PLUTTA, or using 3/w technigzes (uhich he took with hin on a trip to what
was then e very hostile area, where he had known enemies, and where
there was a recent history of jealing rouzhly with outsiders). ien
orders conflict with personal cesires (for example, when he plamed to
spend a weekend in a city he enioys but was told he should proceed
imediately to his next stopping place), he obvys without hesitation.

‘The foregoing is a collection of nisceilaneous facts, cut taken
together they paint the rortrait of a promising agent, both in terns
of uotivations and abilities.

B. Rodigast's knowl-dze of Q's azcitude in the months prior to-
recruitcent (June 1955) is licited, Rodigest has the impression 2 had
simply reached the end of his roe-- he had nowhere to go, he hed
earlier decided that he would iike to work for or at least cocpsrate with
ODYOKS (although earlier attexpis to make contect met with no success).
The hunene treataent received et the hands of his recruiter, the
subsequent sympathetic handlin: by his case oificer, undoubtedly
convinced hin that he had not nade a mistake.

The material factor is not to be underestimated.
The dezoralizing position of living on his wife and worse, on her fanily,
must have lowered his resistance to any possible alternative. Rodigast
simply doesn't know how Q might have responded to a reasonable offer
from enexies of ODYO<: at that point. The prospect of immediate engagement
at a decent wage nay have been cecisive,

Since that tine, Rodigast feels Q's motivation has been rein‘orced
and perhaps considerably alterea: he has been asked to do obviously
necessary tacks,and so he can f<el he is needed by someone; he has been
given reasonable instructions on how to acc-nnlish them; he sees that
others are concerned vor his perscnal safety and material wellbeing.
Rodigast has taken pains to avoii ziving the inpression that there was
any con2usion or error or difference of viewpoint in running the project
(even at a time when there were lonty of all three); such problezs were

PO BOO CT2-



Baestuelds,

qenspdbsiprewtnene a SOT en meena Senet eee ee

resolved before being tzken up with Q, and thus he has a somewhat rosy
vicw of the operation. ihe satisfaction of acccazlishnent (i.e., being
able to produce useful answers. to our questions} is surely a factor
in his present attitude.

Though light-sxinned, with a voice and accent which would be
considered acceptable in any ?uPititl. society, © is extremely sensitive
to the fact that he is a Negro. He has not said or suzgested any such
thing to odigast, but this is so obvious a factsr in his correspondence
(even discounting the extent to which the correspondence is part of
his conscious cover) tht it seems to Hodigast that it mst be a factor
in his life. On the other hand, Kodigast has knoim another legro who
was a close ‘riend of @ (and now one of his major enemies, as a result
of the Paris forged letter incident and contributing events) who was
80 sensitive about race that he makes Q in retrospect seem like an
Uncle Ton.

Still, Redigast does not believe Q could be handled by sonvone
who is not genuinely a "ni-ger lover", i.e., vho could not convey
a convincing inage of a person for whom a color difference was not a
barrier (Q would surely detect the false "pal"). Q has mentioned anti-
Negro prejudice as a reason for his refusal to cooperate with ODtTY .
oificers who talked to him while he was in New York. In fact, Q deais,
with his present case o:ficer as e@ possible jot. a true triends :
they share an inter-st and involvement in writii.g, English literature,
Living harpily abroad, etc.; Rodigast has tried to read Dants in the
original and Q has done so; Xodigast would like to write a novel and
Q has published one; Rodigast doesn't know muck about the post-logical
positivists who interest 2 but probably gives a convincing inpression
that he would like to Imow about them, and just might be capable of
understandin- them. what all the foregoin~ means is that in Q we have
an accomplished person, ami it is a useful tactic to treat him if
not as a superior than at the very least as an eousl.

There rensins the possibility that opportunistic reasons are
primary: Q joined the organization a-d stayed with us because he could
not do as well in any other job, could in fact get no job (because of: :
his background, his alien status abroad, ete). Fodigast does not exclude
this, although’he feels that whatever the originei motivation, it has
been’ strengthened and perheps converted into sonething more worthy.

But even if his primary sotivation remains material, the history of the
project over its rirst nine months suggest it is a viable one,

C. Q has lived in the underground for so many years without
breaking that it is likely he will be able to continue to do so. He thinks
fest, handles himselr well in matters presenting security problems.

He is not fully trained for clandestine activity. Zodizest's long
mestings with him always include advice on one or nore speci‘ic aspects
of clandestine work, which when added yp may be teken to reprssent a
short course, but that is all. The lac« of training has led Q to cpa or
say things which Rodigast would not have wished hin to do or say, and
whenever possible tris has been brought to Q's attention, and he seems
responsive to such instruction.

Rodigast would not recamend that Q be siven 2 training course,
but this would not preclude more formal sessions with Rodigast during
which Rodigast could give more complete instruction on various phases
of clandestine work.



~ ie)

Q@ gives the impres ion of not being easily mov-d. He has
already survived violent attacks, questi ning by legislative comittees
tnd police (including atvosd), public venanciation; nox Liat be hay
KUBARK as @ triend he should resist at least as well 2s before. One
negetive trait is his need to take revenge for injury, and this
tendency cust be controlled; his instinct to be spiteiul to an eneay
could conilict vith a longer-range plan.

It is to te hoped that the present situation regarding his wife
who believes him to 06 working for th: arch fos of /B:RIMS) will be
possible to maintain. She doesn't like the situation mich, but accepts
it, and apparently hasn't betrayed his "confidence". If he is zoved
to another city which both Q and his wife would consider agreeable

she would probatly be even happier ard less likely to revolt,
especially if a quarters allowance helved them get out of their present
financial straits (they can pay rent and cuy food but not save or
repay debts— so his wife sa:s he is doing an unpleasant thing without
even being able to say they are better orf than they were in
If he were sent to a less agreeable place for six months or a year
(say|__) he woulc went to settle his wife in a desirable place
but preferably, for the childvents schooling; here too her attii
would depend on their caterial :osition and on the possibility of
his being able to visit on occasion (if he were in say, and she
in(~__|he would return ror visits which would also be cover
for his meetings with his case o:ficer). od: gest recommends that once
in place, Qts basic wage be raised (as promised in June 1965) from
$600 to $800, hut that he also receive quarters and ir possible
an educational aliowence. i

D. Q says he is a local PBPRIMER. He now does act like one.
Rodigast feels the evidence for “his loyalt~ is at least as good as
4t is for most ovher ? knows. Barly in their relationship
(probably mid—June 1965 in’ Q had said he had turned away rrom
the revolutionary move.-ent ovard his own country; even though there
were opportunistic reesons for him to have done so, he is seeringly
2. His views on Negro problems in PaR?IMé probably have
not changed, but he never was a black nationalist, and has many friends,
besides his wife, tho are white). He might not agree with ODY.i5 policy
4n Vietnam, Cuba, or elsewhere-- he obviously has not been questioned
: on his personal beliefs— but his dissent, if dissent there be, is
i not disloyalty, and in any case should not prevent him from executing
“ KUBARK policy to the letter. Undoubtedly he has a leftist econonic
entation, but there is no evidence that it is an orthodox Marxist
one (or that it ever was). . :
He seems to like Rodigast; in any event they work well together.
He has made no effort to develop a warm relationship with Redigast,
however, appzrently feeling that this is not necessary, might not
be ‘appreciated, and would con:lict with the conpartnentalization so
obviousiy kept in force by Rodigast (who hasn't told Q his true name,
address, marital status, or ther personal fact which might lead
to identizyi7g hin). Seeaingly| [does not believe the name which Rodigast
used at their introdction was a true name, for he didn't bother to
remenber it (the last naze), and all this would tend to discourage the
building up of a personal friendship. =
It is probable that he respects rether than scorns KUBARK for
its decent treatnent of him. AUBAtK through Rodizast has always ke}
4ts promises, dodizast has never been a minute late ior a meeting ian

\
i



H
'
Hl rarely bean a ndnute ce two late, and in recent meetings—presumably
1 because he feels that iodigast's never-fsiling appearance on the
i precise cecond or the neeting must mean thet tris is required EUBAEK
| practice— he has been even more preci:e, Zodigest is -lvays ready
with a suggested solution to a security or other problea which will be
faced by Q in carrying out a new assignment. H
On the sther hand, ¢ Q's satisfaction with WIBARK might
| derive from a feeling that EUBs#K is a “soft touch". Rodizast does
not recomend that anything be done to change Q's opinion “(at he really
| does hold it); Rodigast feels th=t we are going to pay G as much whether
he likes us or doesn't, and ior the sane money we might as well make
sure he likes us and vill do his utzost ‘or the orgenization rather
then simply be a timeserver keeping up appearances, Ir given cause
for resentment, his behavior is unpredictable, “or he hasn't uch to
hose-— reputation ror lyalty, good naze, ete. (ne solution would be
! to give him enough so that he vould indeed stand to lose much.
i Q appears to possess a rezlitsic, sane view of ODYiG, what
dts people are like, what can and can't be done by it. As already
indicated, he seexs to be as lpyal 2 PBPALER as other people xno don't
give uch thought to the matter, certainly a lot sore loyal than his
background would lead one to expect. In any caze, we have no
recent evidence to contradict his statement that he considers himself
to be a loyal PEPXULR; it may Just be true. If it isn't, this won't
make any difference to the project as it is understood by Rod:
Q is unlikely to hold sy..pathetic feelings for CD
hed what he described as an unvortunate experi-nee or two with thea,
Qn the other hand, ho is sophisticated enouch to assume that his
rerortinz on PBPRELRS is of concern to OD/¥, and he mst know
that his own suggestion for tdy in PBPRIUS to contact target
institdtions and old friends there vould put him into OD:MVY territory.
He would probably accept any necessary collabo:ation without showing
| that he didn't like it.

i E. Rodigast does not believe Q is at present workin: for snother
service, but it is difficult to know what would happen if another
service approached him. Rodigast assumes he would report this to us,
gust as he reported in detail the overtures by two persons apparently
working with the services of the country in which he resides. As part
of the present operation involves the possibility that Q will in fect
be approached by the opposition, and Q is aware of this, one essumes
he is prepared to remain loyal to KUBARK; one would also assume he would
recognize the heizhtened value o: his services to us should he be
approached by the o-her side and continue to reuain loyal to us.

Q certainly would not agree to work for an opposition service
for peanuts, but if o.Zered a consideratle sum o: money (given that
he just breaks even in his present arrangene..t with us, in the
thinking 0° Q's wife), there is no telling what he would do. hen

recruited, Q was told he would cet a raise once he sot settled “in place"
SR a premise nope tere ee
“pony to becin t pay detts and buy clothing, and thus have more
concrete evidence of the naterial edvanta-es o° his preseat azrangemcnt.
Rodigast would be very sursrised i: Q acreed to work for an
opposition service not ior rineneial reasons but throuch ideology.
Q likes to live well. He believes in wearing good clothes,
staying in good hotels, being able to invite others out or food and

|



feb I i Sane IN seen ae nt ane

Lael

drink. He says that in the revolutionary movement poverty 4s no virtue,
but merely indicates lack of in:luence. He 523s thet the most popular
persons are those wo can dispense noney, alcohol, and women. -his may
well be true. It is certainly true chat -uch a role would please Q
dnmensely (that 4s, having a plush apartzent in whieh he could entertain
tergot Porsmalitice, satdsiying KUBAKts requirenents and his personal
desires),

P. Q must be dealt with firmly, with continued serving of requiremats i
and planned itineraries for trips. At the sexe tine, it 43 obvious that
he inprovises well when left without instructions; he is versatile, :
and can create situations which wiil result in en intelligence product. :
Rodigest's method is to suszest reasonable plans and to be ready to :
show that they can be implezenied, and how they cax, anticipating |
objections. :
While*there is no evidence that if left alone Q would drift, ae
out an assigment to “ill tine, it is possible that he would. +H
He has not written as many (ree-iance articles as -odigast would have
liked him to, because each requires thinking out a subject, gathering
material, selecting a point of view and thinking of the public to which
At would’be addressed—— a lot of work for articles meant to ser.> minly
as cover, for publicetion in obscure organs, or perhaps merely to be
used to convince editors that he was active. On the other hand, he produced
the iirst issue of the newsletter in record tine. following instructions i
to the letter (indeed, ace g what must at times seem like petty
@ditoriel changes nade by Rodigast). Ferhe:s he sroduced the latter
80 efficiently because he saw in it added prestige, an opportunity to
get his nane back bezore the public in a respectable context.
Ideological notivation would not seem to be a level of control
in his case, shat is nost inportant is his contentment with being (he
hopes) a permanent part of a lerge or on, vith a steady salary
he has never said this, of course);
important than its known reputation
sanething one doesn't find anong the o:
and he finds new exaxples of this daily.

Doubtless, his tendency to bear a grudge is a factor here-- Q
4s now in a position where he can thumb his nose at some of his eneaies.

Rodigast. feels that considerate dealing with Q, levting
him know where he is zoing, what he can expect, not changing the rules
abruptly or pullinz a rug irom under his feet, l-tting himesee the
possibility of small but certain increases in caterial benefits in the
course of his career, cozpose the ideai /ormla for handling ‘hin.

In the course of time, the ideological factor, which is perhaps marginal
at this tine, would probably be reinforced, could one way be a major
factor. Q, meanwhile, mst feel that the persons who deal with him

are concerned with his material wellbeing acd also of his physical

safety, appre iating the risks in his work end understanding that not

all assignnents will bear fruit. Our relaticnship with Q could be destroyed
very rapidly if we failed to pay him as prozised, or wasted his time

with make-work, or caze hia con-using or contradictory instructions which
suggested that KUBARX was not the all-poveriul institution he may now
think it is.



my

a]

G. Very early in our relationship & said that ne would lize
to make 2 career in KUBARK, outside nov, perma » inside soue dey. Ke
would work in PBPRUL, or abroad. There was no dmdication then, and
has been none since, that he regards the present > lationship as a
distasteful one to te tersinated as soon as conditions perait.

He would like to settle in en expatriate's paredise, such es
Paris or zone, presuzably involved in journalisn end other writ:
If he could do these things in connection vith his work ror.us, so
much the better.

Hi. Q 4s conscious of the need for secu-ity and handles himsels well—
as well as an amateur could in this cantext. 2ut he is far more naive
about teczrizues and especially the nuances of tecrnique than Hodigast ‘
would have expected in ane who had been involved in the revolutionary i
movement for so long. He ozten needs instruction on obvious points,
and responds quite wei? to it, the exception teing his clumsy handling
of the s/s method-- he is an inte:lectual end not e tecinician, ani
Rodigast assumes that he (2:digast) would not do much tetter if forced to
use same tecmical systen. aa ‘
@ is quite observant. He will recall a personel remark mate to
him by Koaigast irom one month to tha next, His resorts written same time
ater the event are thorouch and apparently accurate.
Fe read A Spy and His Kaster by Christopher ?elix, and has
mentioned it a couple of times when a remark by Roiigast reminds him
of soxething sai: in the book.
Roiigast doesn't think that even after training Q would be very
good at throwing off surveillance (‘or example) as hs seems too mtier
of fact to ve sly, and perhars slightly lazy ctout what xight be
gratuitous oehavior (e.g., changing subway trains or taxis just on the
assumption that someone might be following hin). iodigest's solution
4s not to cepend on 4 zor such things, but to atte-pt to plan nesting
and stage other operations so as to ninimize the need sor depender.ce
on Q's skill in such areas. After patient briefing 2 does understand
the need for tradecrait efficiency, and as already noted he follows
the advice.

I. At first Q gas quite concerned about noney— he needed an
advance for clothes, for travel, etc, His reouests were really plaints,
and he ney heve left the impression that he thinks of nothing but xoney.
Tt was the complex of 4 poor boy who never had anyone he could turn to— H
despite 2 scholarship he hed to leave a Sine college a:ter a brilliant {
freshman yezr. Once he received his advance and bezen receiving his xoney !
at the bezimning rather than at the end of each month, anc whee Be H
~PerLEEe thE he would Teczive complete aa proupty reinbursenent of |
expenses, he began to relax. Now he submits accountings without 4.
hinsel? totalling the figures or keeping his own reco-d (odigast. mows
this for he hss seen Qts notes), so he must rely on us to teil him how mich i
he clained ‘or (even Rodigast would never do that). He is, in sum, relaxed, }

The saze ease is to be noted in his substantive work; he subcits i
his reports knowin: he bas done his best, end cone well; he accepts ale
i
|
|
i
H

complinents with a very slight nod. “hen sodigast first met Q in a hotel
‘--° goon, Q had sonething of the iunted man, He still seens harried, slichtly
+ nervous at the moment of contact, but on the whole-he is nore Sure of
himself.
At tte outset, Q would argue atoxt assig nents, suzgesting -
es ing about not ha e to éxets, or enow;
ees tay tee : nttruct ions without murmur,

money to pey Zor them. Now he accepts

_Aeesaitebtarat eatesannemeecam te nttne etme aesrcmacrnt eran snare teem done ep en en eens nen ee

Sparen i nee

L



)

even when they contradict a previcus tentative olan, His excellert
responce to tuhmietiens ay hts dese to please, his satisfacti-n
vdith his Job, or personal pride in accasplistment. “hatever the
reason or reasons, the Zact is that he does respond well.



2 AONE MOR REED meee eNO mse te

It vould prove very useful to us--both as a contribution to the
Preparation of the Project Outline now in progress and as a backgrounder for
possible discussions of QREBONY's operational utilization--if RODIGAST
could provide us with an interpretive assessment of him based on the
dnpressions and judgements he has been able to develop over the past months.
We have same such initial assessments, of course, and can infer more from
current reporting. However, we would like to get the bencfit of RODIGAST's
unique and direct contact, nov that QREBOBY has passed through a breaking-in
phase end settled dom in a regular relationship vhich, at its inception, is
certainly e difficult one for most people to adjust to. We would suggest
the folloving outline of topics for RODIGAST to follow:

A. Estinate of loyalty to ODYOKE and QREBONY's psychological
edjustment--his comfortableness--in working for ODYOKE clandestinely:
his attitude, as RODIGAST can infer it, tovard targets hostile to
ODYOKE: in short, his ideological motivation.

is a roy F nee his personal reasons for
association with KUBARK.

Cc. cal suitability and staying power in leading a “double
life". Possible or actual strains on him by virtue of his wif ti tude.
Qualus about the “morality” of his position or fears about being found out.

His attitude

D. His om views of his patriotism or loyalty.
‘tovard RODIGAST, KUBARK, ODYOKE and ODRHVY.

E. His susceptability to approach or control by an opposition service.

F. Methods of control to vhich he is mort, and least, responsive.
What represents the effective lever of his control--internal ideological

Distribution:
2 - 00S, Paris/LCPIPIr

(CROSS REFERENCE TO CASPRTON STHDOL AO MEER

2
; =
| ls | fa aa bd _

"OPIGINATING

= eal
DISPATCH



spy pepe aan ven mie tte

motivation? financial need? resentmentst a desire to
himself with ODYOXS's power? or scue combination of these?

G. Wis longer range plaue, 17 any.
‘E. Bis security conseieumess--i.e. his efficiency in tradecraft.

I. Any changes in bis attituies or personality which RODIGMAST
has éetected over the period of their association.

roam
Figo" Sta use parnious eprrion.
«

{
}

romeo =

