# 104-10063-10015

## Page 1

1104-10063-10011

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 j

"RESTRLATED HANDLING MESSAGE!

no

OT EXCEED

69 TYPEWRITT

ORIG:

FR : pmt

UNIT: CI/SO

EXT::

1758

DATE: 9 September 1970

MUST BE DELIVERED•DIRECTLY TO SPECIAL

JHARACTERS PER LINE, INCLUDING SPACES

GNAL CENTER.

RESTRICTED HANDLING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Copy_

SECRET

of

SIKO

USSL

TO

(CLASSIFICATION)

(DATE AND

TIME

FILED)

SECRET

-119

CITE HEADQUARTERS 082

TOKYO, (EYES ONLY SPARROW)

097

(SEOUL) (EYES ONLY SHORDENDS 21

26z Sep 70

RYBAT MHCHAOS

REFS: A. HQS-781, 5 JUNE 1970 (NOT SENT (SEOUL))

B. (FKSA-13866, 11 AUG 70 (NOT SENT, TOKYO))

1. FOLLOWING FYI ONLY:

: A. LNERGO REPORTED ON 13 AUG 70 THAT HENRY WINSTON (201-006887)

CPUSA NATIONAL CHAIRMAN WAS TO MEET REPRESENTATIVES OF NORTH KOREAN

PARTY OF LABOR DURING HIS RECENT TRIP ABROAD AND GIVE THEM DETAILED

REPORT ON CPUSA POSITION RE ELDRIDGE CLEAVER (201-817097) AND BLACK -

PANTHER PARTY (BPP) • WINSTON ASSIGNED TASK OF EXPOSING CLEAVER AND

BPP AS "PHONIES" BECAUSE CPUSA WANTED TO PREVENT ANY POSSIBLE LIAISON

BEING SET UP BETWEEN NORTH KOREANS AND CLEAVER. IN ADDITION; WINSTON

WAS TO INFORM NORTH KOREANS THAT GROUP ASSOCIATED WITH NEW YORK CITY

PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER, THE GUARDIAN, WAS ALSO COMPOSED OF PHONIES.

B. AT SAME TIME CPUSA FUNCTIONARY, JOSEPH BRANDT, CONFERRED

WITH NORTH KOREAN PARTY OF LABOR IN JAPAN AND REACHED AGREEMENT ON

STARTING AMERICAN-NORTH KOREAN FRIENDSHIP SOCIETY IN ViS

7089

CPU SATC

-COORDINATING OFFICERS

ACTION

BODY RUNCHED RELAT

RELEASING OFFICER

AUTHENT

SECRET

A - Station

THIS FORM FOR USE BY AUTHORIZED RESTRICTED HANDLING MESSAGE USeS ONLY!

SENS

•70 3205

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ED HINDLiNG MESSAGÉ

EXCEED

69 TYPEWRITTE

AIT:

-EXT::

DATE:

AUST BE DÉLIVERED DIRECTLY TO SPECIAL

MÁRACTERS DER LINE, INCLUDINS SPACES

RESTRICTED HANDLING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

GNAL CENTER.

Copy

of

SECRET

(CLASSIFICATION)

(DATE AND TIME FILED)

CITE HEADQUARTERS

TO

SECRET

PAGE TWO

REP WILL TRAVEL JAPAN WITHIN FEW MONTHS TO FINALIZE AGREEMENT.

(COMMENT: POSSIBLE THIS CPUSA EFFORT RELATED TO WINSTON ATTEMPTS

TO DISCREDIT CLEAVER AND BPP.)

2. WOULD APPRECIATE ANY INFO WHICH COMES STATIONS' ATTENTION

RE ANY SHIFTS IN NORTH KOREAN ATTITUDE TOWARDS CLEAVER AND BPP.

END OF MESSAGE

C/CI/SO

Richard

Ober

The ers bichcot

-COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

KEYPUNCHED

AUTHENTICATING OFfIEL&EP 1970

THIS FORM FOR USE BY AUTHORIZED RESTRICTED HANDLING MESSAGE USERS ONLY!

ORM 3205

1.90

---

