f04-10717-10074) _ [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

iy

SECRET

Pate
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 5 January 1961

Tt: The Manhattan Field Office advised today (apparently

called in this morning) that yesterday a reporter of

porter Dispatch, an Eastchester County Newspaper of
contacted him and asked him about CARSWELL and. jadvisea
him that CARSWELL maintained transient residence at his
address and occasionally received mail there. He told the
reporter that CARSWELL was employed by the Victor Vachuta
Engineering Company and that in pursuing his duties with
this Compa: he was out of town most of the time from his
saaress oll [advised the reporter that he saw CARSWELL
very infrequently. The reporter inquired whether or ob
CARSWELL was an electrical technician or engineer and
replied in the negative and stated. that CARSWELL was a
management consultant, he pelieved, for the engineering firm.

2. inferrea°$ro: the reporter's remarks that he
the reporter, believed ind CARSWELL first met while if
civilian employees with the U.S. Air Force several years
previously.

3. The reporter related that his paper obtained the
lead on CARSWELL through their contact in Havana who received
information regarding CARSWELL from the Cuban News Service,

( which, information indicated CARSWELL's Eastchester address.
a)

believes that the reporter's interest was considerably
Tessened upon learning that CARSWELL is not a full-time
resident of Eastchester.

: Le : RETURNTO CIA
0 oe Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CRroean

Bec nocaux - i Qrurreel behSij pn, cb
