# 104-10187-10003

## Page 1

104-10187-10003

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

!:::

CAL 10M01N A1

i!

10171199 1Y

1646506008 CAM 1100006

FILE TITLE/NUMEEE/VOLD!I::

_ Sippait.

KDBADGER

50-6-75/2

INCLUSIVI: DATES: 25 Jan 19658 - 13 NON 1904

CUSTODIA UNIT/LOCATION: LA/DDO

BOWl: 3634

DELETIONS, IF AVY:

SUPPORT

RICHEVED RETURNED L

26. 11156/26

6/2>

11/20|78

RT: VIT.WED TRY

• HARDIAY

D. HARQWAY

HARDWA

HAROWAY

_NEVERTING OFFICIA

Dam Hardway

No duras

NO DUCUMENTS MAY BE COPTED OR REMOVED FROG THIS FILIA

10ce

6. 11

LATENTY SUPPORI

50-5-7512

JAITARY 1962 - DECEMBER 1964

---

## Page 2

14.00000

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER.

FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD

BE INCLUDED IN THIS

FOLDER

TO

IP /RPU

GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDINTIAL

10" 2593

---

## Page 3

Bustas-Videla

UNIT, 191/1

MESSAGE FORM IS

ELSECRET

178 : 4506

O NO INDEX

DAR : 13 NOVFMBER: 196AR0 PLE IN CS PILE NO. 50-6-2223

10, MIXICO CITY

ROM DIRECTOR

CONS,

BOU." IG

SIGCEN

STE CEN

100 PDP, ADDP, COPS, OS Z, VA, FRE

INTO,

OTE DIR

10

PRIORMY

MEXI

LITEMPO

REF: MEXI 1538 (IN 20864)"

6.40013

1. ONLY POSSIBLY IDENTICAL TRACES MRS SHAPIRO ARE IN HIM 191

AND HAMA 2525. ODIREX REPORTS 1948 WHICH CANNOT BE LOCATED(BELIEVED

ONLY REPORT TRAVEL. BETWEEN MEXI AND US) REPORISON ROSA ACKERMAN DE

SHAPIRO BORN BOZALIA RUSSIA ON & MARCH 1909 (MEXI GOVT SHOULD HAVE

FILE ON HER).

2. ONLY PROBABLY IDENTIFIABLE TRACE LIPPMAN WAS KUTHIN CENSOHSHIP

REPORT 1942 WHICH LISTS HIM AS CONNECTED REAL, ESTATE AND CONTRACTING

FIRMS NEWARK NEM JERSEY, HE WAS CONNECTED WITH INDUSTRIAS DE DEFENSA

IN HABANA CUBA WHICH NAS DESCRIBED AS UNDERTAKING PROMOTIONAL SCHEMES

INVOLVING SHIPBULLDING, DOCK FACILITIES, AND DEFENSE WORK.

• 3. KUSODA IS MAKING LOCAI, CHECK. AFTER OBTAINING HUSBAND'S

FIRST NAME AND SOME REEKENA BACKGROUND WILI, CHECK VOLUMINOUS FNU

SHAPIRO TRACES RI AND CARDS ON HUSBAND.

UNLESS ADVISED CONTRARY DO

AT THIS TINE

L'LOT PLAN CHECK ODENVY, DUURGE OR ODIBEX. IF THESE AGENCIES WOULD

HAVE INFO WE WOULD: FAVE TO REQUEST SPECIFIC PERMISSION PASS TO

MEXI OFFICIALS.

PERRABINE CFFICER

END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATINO OFFICERS

SEGRET

GROUP 1

testerdad from

aviorraits

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

ORVICER

Copy No.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

a0, C. Bustos-Videl

MESSACE FORM

VIT, 11Н/

SECRET

ir, 1500

O NO INDEX

DATE. :3 NOVEMBER 19640 PLE IN CS FLE NO:

то .

"ROM DIRECTOR

COMP,

INFO

ROUTING

3

142

PAGE THO

то

INTO,

OTE DIR

6401.3

WH COMMENT: "LITEMPO-? renuested info on SHAPIRO and LIPPMAN

who reside New Jersey and who are suspected espionngo

agents.

TICHARD HELMS JEE

DDP

SORROIMATINE SPRIES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE T.

GIQUE !

Pastudod tro

and

unceror

SOHIBITED.

JOHN FORTON

C/WH/POA

AUTHPMCCATIMO

Copy Ns.

..

---

## Page 5

14-00000

OriG, C. Bustos

UNIT, NHl/1

Ex8, 4506

DATE, 31 AUGUST 1954

10, MEXICO CITY

PROM DIRECTOR

WHS

2z

NESSAGE FORM

DJ INDEX

DISECRET

O NO INDIX

O PILE IN CS BILE NO.

ROUTING

$ 55

8

I SEPEN 15 792

10

INCO 7586, CCS3, OPZ, VR

INFO,

MEXI

REF: DIR 44882

CITE DIR

RUTSAY ETA 8 SEPT EAL FLIGHT 305. NO NECD MEET, REQUEST

RESERVATIONS. WILL PHONE AREHART DIRECTLY.

48309

END OF MESSACE

WHI CONMENT: ARE ERa rainstructions for llas contact ro

bum!

Jain

DESMOND FITZGERALD

C/WHD

RELEASINO OFPIGER

SOORDINATIMO OPRICERS.

SECRET

Enstudad ton auromatie

seemini on

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

G. Speng

KAUFMAN

AUTOEMCCATINO

Copy No.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

•Snera

14 ANGUST 1961

NEXICO CITY

DAFETOR

WHY

MESS.IGE FOR

JN0 INSA

2 SECRET

DREN GRENO

Data 172

LOZTERRED

if

INO.

CITE DUR

LIENVOY /TECHS

REF:

HMMT - 474S

..

• 42430

NEWTON T.

RUTSAY AVAILABLE FOR TDY 10 TO 2S SEPT. ETA FOLLONS.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/Perg/Benchall (by phone)

C/TSD/AOB/Yoch (by phone)

DESMOND FITZGERALD

C/NID

ARLESSING SPRIGER

TE212117189225131

J10-0!

_SECRET

datin rod Here 1,187848.

++o1918018150

71006: 10.09

SEPSODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING ORICT IS PROHIBITIO.

Cozy No

...

---

## Page 7

14-00000

10 dugust 1964

HEYGRANDUM

FOR: Chief, Technical Services Division

ATTENTION

Chief, TSD/Ing

SUUJECT

Roquest for ToY Replacerent for Arnold F.

ARElIART.

1.

all Division requests your cooreration in providing &

TUY replacement for Arnold F. ARIART as Case officer and

technician for the IlE"VOY tap center in "exieo fity.

AREN'ART

has requested three weeks hore leave, from 10 so

is sentenlier,

In drive his older son to the states to enroll hin in his

freshmen year of collene toy replacenent will need re

is a minimum so that his

ARENART has kept his leave plans

loan fron leadquarters for as short a time us possible.

2.

The Division had offered to provide an aperations

officer is a

ThY replacement but lexico firy Station has re-

quested that a technician

sent instead since the burden

ARENART's job is the maintenance

of enulprent ales? with the

rotection of ClA's interests Inside the ll.

wl: givision sug-

ests that your rolease of r. Charles Deck for this assich-

nent would be jical if he la available, as no overlao would

he required since he is already knobledreable of this operas

tion.

The Station was olso very pleased with the sori dore

by ut. decl on his last TDY to Mexico.

3.

Becauso of the critieal tole the Lafarcy Project

anys in the

station's shole operational picrure,

are hecause

or the inportance

the senoth-functioning of the le ls to rur

lialson with ton-lovel vertenn officials, your assistance ls

requested.

IT. lock 1s not avnilable, any other suitable

candidato would he acceptable, Please inform !!r. Bustes,

x-1506, -450705

vour docision, as be sould

hide

so be able to inforo derico as sann as possible as to whether

a TDY replacement will be

available.

Desmond Fitzterald

Chief

western l'emisphere Pivision

---

## Page 8

14-00000

DDP/WH/DF/C.Bustos:kte (10 August 1964)

Distribution:

Orig &

1

Addressee

H'll/Registry

NH/1/Mexico

= NI/1/Mexico (LIENVOY/Support)

-----

---

## Page 9

14-00000

DISPATCH

•29r, i DIr1a10r

M4H91D 1-3819940105

0s. 21100 97:84;

10760100011882234

UN DAIN

103/ CADere Te da13. 499499 (29)

Inaio dinco le viil lo nocessary to

cedo tlo seringer dor due di 8ca0n).

asi vili bo enterirà catiosa in the lital scalea iia lo clA rosson ARsiN?"

m: 199991 10849

2.

A tachalclor orall be prelarable lo el mantInue Cel Car Ao A timiairar

++19+999919105

R97 99019

11797

1: 6194 d'a it,

Le benho, le le rogueside Cral MellaMers Percente:

:..

tist'.".

19 rito magato tal 9a coniati, I'MiTAto 15898 Dial1..

2 - C/MID

.-e.....

23 fulv 1944s

1MC-44

++55H6011

JECPET

---

## Page 10

14-00000

DISPATCH

СЕСНГ!

chief or station. "exico Citr

77284

chief, WID

replacement for Arnold F. AGEMNST during Hore leave

ATIN RETURNS

FORCICES

reference:

IMMA 23522

Referenied dispatch which reflected the station's apprecin-

RuTsar's high level of performance during his

recent ThY in vexico and requested his resurn TDY was hrought to

the artention of the approprinte KURTOT officials.

2.

a he hey can to ease to protone merto

this sall.

since the leave probably will only be about suo months,

l'eadouarters wonders whether a technician is absolutely required.

Ines the station believe that an operations officer,

with some

spanish and the could sorely take over the administrative work and

the Station contre:s, couid fill in during this period?

we are not sanguine that a replacerent can be made avall.

since the man will of necessity need to he

"exposable" to liaison, but will try pur best to find onc.

In the

reantime, please fordard the exact dates it is desired the hoped

for man should be in Mexico to allow for adecuate overlap.

Crestor P. DAINOLD

-

Distribution:

2 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS HERSENETO

DISPATCH SYNHOL AND SL'SIBER

DATE

50 6:75/2

17 JUL 1964

CLASS FICATION

MOS FHE PUNNIO

SECRFT

50-6-75/2

PRIGINATIG

C. Bustes-Videla: XT!

serialit,

[TSP/AOB

"icRee

• main @ .

4506

EID/IS

5-225

WH/1

53

FELEASING

1: 919404

DAlE

DISPATCH

---

## Page 11

DISPATCH

CLASSIF: ATLiN

FELLESSINL ACTION

SKCRET

MARTED FOR INCEXINO

10

Chief of Station, Mexico City

INTO

¿ NO INTEXINE REQUIREO

DALY QUALIFITO DISK

CAN JUDUE INDEXINO

1OM

•XISTOFIL

LIENVOY SUPPORT

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Arnold F. AREHART asked that his TDY replacement

inquire at leadquartera regarding the status of his request

for equipment shich the station

forwarded to Headquarters as

Requisition No. 359-19-64.

Headquarters has shipped to

Corpug Christi

the tters in requested in connection vita

the Revere (shipped 20 April), and the Heath and Allied items

were shipped on 7 bay.

Ampex and Bl0 lteas have not yet

been recolved at Headquartera from the supplier.

Headquarters

o1ll pouch all Items from these that weight and size will

peralt, the renainder will have to be shipped to Corpus

In view of the equipment listed in LGIS 6030,

18 May 1964, which 18 also awaiting pickup at Corpus Christi,

perhaps there uill be a flight soon.

passed to "re equested that the above information be

dexicini

Chester D. DAINOLD

Distribution:

Q81 - COS, Bexico City

CROSS RESERENCE TO

IS COPY

DISPAICH STABOL AND NUMBER

50-4-75/2

CATE & È MAY 1964

HAMH-12611

CLASSIFICATION

31 May 1964

MOS FILE ALIASER

SECRET

50-8-75/3

ORIGINATING

OFFILE

OFFICER

TIPIS:

HH/3/Mexico/C. Bustos:chk

COnSPINATiN:

CHICE SYMBOL

CÉSiC'SIS NASTE

HH/LOG

P. Pike (draft)

EXT.

159-10

INISTLE!

DistributIon:

AID: ZEChrom

RID/1=93/208/

BIDES

WH/s/102

FCOM 53 USE PREVIOUSEDITION

DIFICE SYABOL

C/WHD

DATE

(17)

RELEASING

OFFICERS SINA STA

Destond Fitzterald

DISPATCH

---

## Page 12

4-00000

нет.

SECTET

26 May

26 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chles, TSD/AOB

SUBJECT

: LIENVOY TDY Roport

.:'TDY aupport of the LIENVOY operallon la Maria

City mao providad by this offico during the perlod 23 April to

15 May 1964. The Stall Agonl, ARNOLD I. AREHARI Who managed

tbla operation underwent surgery for a hernia on the 24th of April.

The undersignod assumed the responsibilitles and partormod to

duties agaociated with the LIENVOY operation durlag AREHART',

convalescence. He was Incapacitated for duty from 23 April until

12 May.

tila operation was succesalu, and recovery was normal.

AREHART returned to work on 12 May in a weakened conditlon and

thros dayo of overlap was allowed to provide arelatance with

the more atronuous und tirosome chores.

The blenvoy installation was found to bo li

excellent condition.

The operating personnel wore well dieciplino

and theit procedures were well organized. The dally work was

belng accompliahod lu a biolneds like and efficient mannos.

AREHART has done a commondable job in establlabing and main=

talning thia highly productive operation.

3. The equipment in this Installation has been in uao

incon houre a day for over four yoars.

Ao the reault of good

maintenance praciices it is in good shape and functioning well.

The minor dilficulties encountered during the shake down perio

zave been overcome and egulpment maintenance and repair poet

no significant problem There was no loos of coverago on any

Une during the three week TDY.

4. The following observations and recommendations are

included herein to Improve KURIOT services tu the Fleld and "

aquaint reaponsible officers with technical discrepancies.

A. Portinent technical information is not beiny

communicated to AREHART.

SEORST

---

## Page 13

14-00000

B.

The drying up of the ball point pons in the B-10,

Dial Recordor has beon a constant nulsance ainco

the beginning of this operation the pressuro

senaltivo tape was the obvious answer lo tale.

problem, but the firet ton rolls of prossure

tape were roceived after noarly lour yours of

atruggling with tho defective pons. It la

recommendad that preasura sensitive tapo bo

supplied to this operatios for futuro use.

C. The tea rolle of pressure sensitivo capo

recolved duriny this TDY were wound back-

wards on their spindles.

The tires on the idler wheel of the B-10 aro

drying and cracking and fall to obtaia adequato

traction on tha flywheel, This causes lapo

foed problems. It le recommended that throo

dosen new Idler wheele ba pouched to AREMART

Immediately, Several of the defoctive idler

whoels are avallable in this offica for

inspeciion.

Charles O. Dock

TSD/AO3

Distribution:

Original &l - Addrosseo

1 - TSD/ AOD/OSS/ WH

1 - WH/3/M 3B0003/Charlotte Bustos

1 - TSD/1.OG

1 - TSD/ AOB/ TRO

Charles O. Deck/ 3330/jlm

-..

---

## Page 14

4-00000

tras-nia

301

poas

559-79525

•14÷4

a r27p9

*12.390%

-26

'12 ach

224

zH-)

D1a0: oply ri'lron

1N

1695

Tubon ArXigi rüs

k-2 Ford .srinnnt.!s

smol1 siprings for DrIvo

AMPEN PA!T9I

: 1a wach

12 oach

Hol)? Centril.s,

1sensionla Tapi:-

Il, osc"

oict!

Bach

onch

ench

+6

nach

3-201-0 1115.8

1+101-1 8911109

la0ia 111e

3-202-8 11988

c-203 Motor l paslenrs,

H-202

hogleters.?.O".

Sheg

klnctroiy!1c

TOR4!1A.O.

...

rei •lncerle

ent te,tilore1.

9850%- Veniza difltet Eonsoliaone

ilinr,?

notor ipoclal.diel.eo.

Пров.

iD rerei.110.

Pain s so. 99sa - fer E p

fi attarini

2.1a1'. dd0

v.

sparo proasiire p:dio

Inee by;e.

abugon ei os pptid

1-3:-11101

TIST AGUIFSIATI

Boachkle Cotiog . Fail

#enel +1235 ) 462-1763

} 18

oathki tr.no1.c0r 8e899.

:18

1":-35;

-Caprcltor Checker

118

I.-11

• VAAU::1-AUTI1 S181A1 TYCUT

•Usclllagerpo

sSoope Denodulator prul. kie

"10w

capicity

ir.opia

korie

•Harmon1e 11.9090101 : 1008

•Rasietanco

tatettiittor. tiox

j Condoinar dlenitnelons 1.0x

F. 1 k

1 t

F.18

1.1 t

Y1t

÷0-10

3379

= ]

t*;-1

.-?

1.".=1

A1:10d Catnlo6 # 220--156.3

TH-AJ THpO :HI1CHTA

rs-is Tapospllrarg

•6 onch=p'fclng

splicing Tape

cat p danAcit9s aluppeai ap

.ut A 801-1%:

St-g6a--lp? tnoye

1Ros1as-0-010s82M-79Bnitdtypo0uilori3

Газо 391.

:Cable Splncing

oord

89 401-219

1/2 15.

".

22

Jan-tf

Licde

---

## Page 15

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

SOUTING

5

• DIRECTOR

AÇOM • MEXICO CITY

ACTION. bH 8

INtO •

DOP,

FI/INT 2,

SAs 8,

SECT

DIR INFO CAÑA CITE MEXI. 7782

REE EMSTEL 15B3 DATED 14 JAN 54

15 64IN 99238

L. NOTE CHARGE SOONSTRA REPORT OF VICENTE SANCHEZ GAVITO (MEXICAN

ANSASSADOR TO OASI CONVERSATION IN WHICH SANCHEZ GAVITO SAID

"VENEZUELAN PROSLEM IS CRITICAL FOR GOVERIMENT OF NEXICO, ALTHOUGH

FONOFF MAS "OTT SEEN ANY OF THE EVIDENCE ON ORIGIN ARYS CACHE,

SAID FOVOFF MAS RECEIVED RELIABLE INFORMATION TO THE IFFECT EVIDENCE

OF CASINO ORIGIN IS CONVINCING. "

2. BELIEVE "RELIABLE EVIDENCE" LIKELY THAT GIVEN TO LITENSOR

BY SAMUEL KO CASTELON IN DECENBER BRIEFING.

SECRET

SECRET

REPROPUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHINITED

rodded hot ovenge

Copy No.

---

## Page 16

14-00000

!. =

ROSTES

OCI

D/DC1

10/61.

DOI

AJ/NE

00?

ASUP

CISAS

C WH

SECRET

CiTO: AND COVED LEET

FOR

CaPaRTENT OF STATE

TIME RIG'O CADLE SCCE

1700

LIMIT DISTRIEUTION-S/S TELLURAN OR LINE DISTRIGUTIGN NENORANOUM

DOCLMENT IDENTIPICATION: DEPTEL 1071 to Merico City

ATTENTION ALL RECIPIENS:

THE STATE DIPARTHCNT HAS FURNISHIO TO TNE DIRECTOR, CENTRAL

ONE COPY OF THE ATTIENCO DOCUMEIT.

REPRODUCTION lS PRONIDITIO.

THE GAELE

SCCRETARIAT HAS ROUTIO THIS DOCUMENT AS SMOWN TO THOSE WIO HAVE A NICO TO KNOW. EACH

IADIVIDUAL WHO SEZS THIS MESSAGE SMOULO SIGN AND INDICATE THE DATE OF HANDLING. THIS

COVER SMCET MUST SE MEPT ATTACHES TO TNE DOCUMENT UNTIL THE DUCUMENT IS OLITROYCO.

THE

COVER SHILT MUST DE RETAINEO OY THE RICIPIENT POR 30 DAYS AFTCAWHICH IS MAY DE DESTROYCO

WITHOUT ANY ACCORO OF DESTRUCTION.

SIGNATURE OF PERSON SFEING TELEGIAN

Hi states

3. Rickhedt

DATE

15 Die 63

18 Mic

Berk

CS/RF.

live

.:..

RETAIN COVER SHEET FOR 30 DAYS

SECRET

EXP FORM BY

CADLE SEE, O/DC1O 87 APA 63

GROUP?

EXCLUDEO FROM AUTOMATIC DOViIO

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

---

## Page 17

4-00000

-—.

33

•¿C' = TELEGRAM Dopertment o! State

SECRET

ACTION::

MEiS? AntICO CITY

MERAS RIO DE JAICTRO

INDIATE 1071

I:

DIATE 829

Rec 17" is za fid 63

LILIT DISTRSAUTION S/B

CARACAS PISS HAND ALLEN

035

PYI. l. In coimection Verosucian complaint to als,

discussions in Standing Group of NSC have idcatified tvo

alternatives for cooperativa systen survoiilance and interception

of vessels and aircraft engaged in transporting aims for subversive.

purposes to Latin America (espocially Caribbean area) directly

or indirectly from Cuba. Diffcrence betreon alterritives centers

-. -

on need for alS authorization for use of force in Intemational

waters.

acted bro

Casson

2. Alternative l would require ONS authorization use of

force in consection with visit-and-search in international vators

against selected Cuban vessals and solected vessels O1S countries.

It would be a cooperative system of surveillance and interception

involving visit-and-search in international waters on s sective

basis, with force to be used if neceusary. Visit-and-scarch and,

If ICulstance met, force would be applied by naval units of US

or of cooperating dis countries against selected vessels susported

of transporting arns fion Cuburdirecily or Indirectly.

ARA/CCA: Jcrimmins: 02220 092710/53

White House - MI. Bundy

S/S:ME. Mckesson

SECRET

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

505™ 05-323

---

## Page 18

4-00000

i

:

SECRET

3. Aliernativa i would not require OAS authorizutio:

und fo:ca linonuch as visit-ard-scurci would talie place only

within territorial watery. It would baà cooparativo systen of

survcillanca and irterception involving visit-and-scarch only

within the territorial waters of an O1S country, with force to be

applied, 1f necessary, by that country's forces or by forces of

another OAS country acting undur a bilutcral agrecment. Control

of suspect vessels destined for non-las country or territory

(6. 8. British Gulana) would deperd on cooperation that county.

4. In both altornatives interception or seizure of

suspeci aircraft would be carricd oui only in territory of als

country of destination by forces of that country or of another

OAS country acting under a bilateral agrecent.

5. Comparison of alternatives:

(a) Altemative A would ba mich harder to sell to

OlS countries than Alternative B because authorizition for use

of force Iquired.

(b) Alternative A would be soncuhat more offüctiv

both in fact and as deterrent than Alternutiva B, altioush loch

can be circumvented.

(c) Alternative A would constitute harasscent of

Castio Wacicas Alternative B is puraly defensiva.

(d) Alternative A would Incur substantialls

grester risks of escalation than Alteinacive B.

SECRET

• .

---

## Page 19

14-00000

(o) Micemative A lould da nore expensive li icans of US units

roquired than nicestiva s.

6. Kind and mucher of sir cional measures which we would seek in

ais would vary with choice beseen alteritin, jor example, our

tentative thinking is that risisua dds paclage acceptuble to US under

Alternativo d would b.: auctiication use forco; con-lemnation Castro

regine; and scaffimairs i: invigaeatini anti-subversive incasures.

Under Alternative B, mishra packaye no estimted to be: defensive

syston with search err ari. 're dithin nationai territory; condemnation;

reufiimation anti-iiva..i: -ourch; and obligatory break in air

and surface communications batten 045 countrics and Cuba,

7. We consider altituds doxico and Brasil critical. OAS vote

authorizing use for:: in which une or other did not join would be

politically undesirable. mo si,

8. Action requested

Chief of Nission shouid cane first opportunity of conversation

with Fontin on other matters sa esplore discreatiy ind Informally

indicating he acting personaliy and viticout irstructions the probable

receptivity of GOl (008) co aa diS iccolution authorizing use force.

disassador should proceed on essumption report OlS Investigation comictea

strongly

SOCKET

---

## Page 20

4-00000

-..

Paga

Lof telgan to Anembaasics iSCO CITY BIO: INTO: CARiCAS

SECRES

strongly corfirms Venezuelan charges and will be basis propaganda.

campaiga to alert lis goverrments sui public opinion.

Report soonest.

GP

END

BALI.

SECRET

---

## Page 21

4-00000

8222:

MEXICO

12 IU631NDC1 1063

FELO SCORES CAS LOLICIES, CUBA EXCIUSION

Havana in ERellal do Eurode 2020 GI I1 Decertier 19.3--5

organisatic.

In the Irtervier witi the licican daily NOVEDiDES,

orelga Pidate: Teilo said tet curlo euciusion fion the diS is not

In contoradt: with the aiS charter.

le raid tint the charter does

not conteipinte the exclusion of any menuer stric.

leerrine to the precent Interintional situatian of the O1S, Tollo

mpiusleel that an organization mich does not indo itoelf o: triandeli

cooperation, and tolerance is lilicly to lace a crisis.

The ladeen foreign!

minister stited tlut in the prosait state of the 015,

bases for the oronacation to strengthen democray do not existo

astria: Cut thas contrary to cercenonto cucotod at Chapultenne and

coyoto, aloot all the presont Intin merican rareschlatives to the

ms are B130 thun courtrico!

arbassadors. In leshington.

PUR:CUI IMTERCEDES FOR FOLZ; HOJI.GES

Lina 17P IN Spanion 2357 ChI 11 Decender 19Ú3--E OFICIAL USE OULY)

Bicurats) Nc:ico City--Irturo Jawezul,

Intellericera de Trubsiadores-OTT), sout a parsoral roquest to Bolliar

Vice Presidenü Jinu Lechen on beinlf of the toreigners hold ai Catavi

The cable says:

"I noreal to your lavor unio: princizlee in tie rare of

tO AU 11111ON ORIT Terber voriurs in faror o: the hostages, These

persons are 10ll known es donocrats horiche in shroi of the spirit cf

huarty and socini economis gangress.

The Bilitian revolution," the

acssago adis, "deands that sto prestige and virdication be bold hizn."

.0 .

DIPIONT'S FETU-SulAR inhassalor to Merico Demand Ramunal returned

to Mexico citer several cunthal ebsence.

(losin fity hadiatricora

Conercialas Spanis: 2050 GO 20 Darning 106,3--F?

it'lich pes0s pear that cr the current year.

•i Cipine

---

## Page 22

14-00000

RARR 1

PANAMA

12 looside: 1903

PLAY OF TERRORISH IS UNFOLDING

Devil lan

Vos del Maru in Spardot, 2I00 CE 11 decciaber 1953--3

(station commentary)

Te:t) It appears as if a preconceived rian of terrorist, lot know.

oícre In Panama,

has been unicashed sinic mabess of our armed forses

The barbaions deith of lalor ieader Aguilar,

teal.en and kicked in Puerto Armuelies; the beting of Intion idior

Vinici Islacios Salines; the conunciation trition a neuspaper of a

Inhor lonucr who was lunged and beaten in Color; alothor cace in

Boquete; and many other known cases constitute patetic proch of the

pian.

Il the objective oi the vave of persecution is to et'acis the 1d:as or

men lith bullets, sticks, imprisoiment,

and othor sitilar measures,

it 1a a stupid move, because ideas are foight tita incas.

of the humble class try to protest in deferse co their righto, they

are calici cormurists.

The privileged alnsses have used fruguently

This pretext against the working classes.

It he analyze the citation

we slid see how the priviloged classes have maintained thoir oun

monopolistic organization.

The oligarchic Groups have greatly Increased. Yesterray they could be

represented in the to or ted existing partics which here directed

ard suverned by them; tojny, they have seen the need to increase the

number o= political partics, as much as 20 in a seall country, in order

to coutrol the public auministration. Inch party is formed by a

privileged family whose only wish is to continue its life of leiswa

This kind of lijc callo for plenty of soney, su in cider

to obtain the mongy they neud they increase each day the tastion

of the poor, who must roy and thus sin: deeper into poverty, uisease,

and ignorance.

In the people un not have work, they connot edin morej; and 1f they

do not have moncy they camot yay taxes. It the propie try to

organice in seif-derense, they are accused of being coumists,

and the: ere fought with suicis. If the esuse of all the evils

of democracy 1s conmunisa, the solution is oblious. to ali inou who

Invented cormunism, and who is living secording to 1t ard upholding it.

The lay to fight cormunism is to open scircas of coris to builu senools,

hospitals, and bette: roads.

---

## Page 23

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE*

SECRET

i, ricot 180+9580 97859

ROUTINO

4

FROM

AGTON,

• DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

FA TEARO FOR WA SLOTTED AT 2050-16 DEE 63)

ADDP

C/C1, C/FI z, VR

SECRET ITALISZ.

PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXI TA18

16 DEC 63 18 18 1 8

RYBAT

ATIN GALÖOND

REF MEXI 7480(1N8165.3)

NO NIGHT ACTION

1. PEAK AND COS MET WITH LITENSOR ALONE AND WITHOUT SINOLE

INTERRUPTION FOR ONE HOUR.

2. MEETING AT LITENSOR HOME.

3. LITENSOR INTENSELY INTERESTED, PEAK DID EXCELLENT PRESENTATION

OF ENTIRE STORY.

DO LITENSOR SAID HE HAD HAVEVERY LSTITED SNOULEDGE 0 S30RY

FROM VENEZUELANS" PRIOR TO THIS BRISFING. ME VAS CONVINCED REPEAT

CONVINCED THAT CASTRO GUILTY AND SAID

AT END "CUBAN COMMUNISIS

WILL NOT STOP WITH THIS DEFEAT".

A. LITENSOR BEING GIVEN COPIES OF PAPERS AND PHOTOGRAPHS BROUGHT

BY PEAK; HE INDICATED WISHED TO USE THESE.

Go NO MENTION OF ANY BRIEFING OF TELLO BY ANY OF THREE.

7O BOTH PEAX AND COS BELIEVE ARIEFING ASUCCESSO

SECRET

•l.i

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE 1S PROHIETTED

Copy No.

---

## Page 24

14-00000

CLA FIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

151

161

• DIRECTOR

FROM. • MEXICO CITY

ACTION, C/UNS AN CO NOTIFIED AND COPY TUBER ...

1615-16 DEE 63)

ANTO, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, VR...

SECRET 162007Z

PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXI TADE

RYBAT

RETS MEXI 739161180844))

16 DEC 63 18 1 653

ATTENTIONs GALBOND

1. LITENSOR RETURNED MEXI LATE MORNING 16 DEL.

20 COS AND PEAKE HAVE APPOINTMENT WITH LITENSOR 1645 MRS

MEXICAN TIME ON 16 DEC "FOR AS LONG AS YOU WISH".

3. WILL ADVISE.

SECRET

CS COMMENT: *BELIEVED EARLIEST DATE FOR LITENSOR BRIEFING VOULD BE

17 DECEMBER.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMINTED

Copy Na

KL

---

## Page 25

14-00000

•=.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Y SECRET

21

ROUTiNG

I31

181

TO

, DIRECTOR

FROM • MEXICO CITY

ACTION,

WH 8

INO • C1/OPS, CI/0A, VR

SECRET ISI9S6Z

DIR CITE MEXI 7399

1o NISH CALL NO ATTENTION TO FACT THAT

FOLLOWING STATION

ACTIVITIES SUSPENDED FOR TRADITIONAL CHRISTMAS VACATIONS DURING

PERIODS INDICATED:

A. LIEMVOY 22-29 DEC

B. LIMUD 1A DEC-I JAN

C. LIKAYAK/2 22-29 DEC

I6DEC631N8 1702

D. LIEMBRACE ON STANDBY

E. LITEMPO ACTIVE, BUT AT "SLOW PACE".

2. ADDITIONALLY MOST GOVI SERVICES DRASTICALLY CURTAILED

DURING HOLIDAYS INCLUDING ISSUANCE TRANSIT VISAS. THUS STATION

WILL FOR ROUGHLY TWO WEEKS BE VIRTUALLY UNABLE CALL ON MANY

USUAL SUPPORT POINTS EXCEPT IN EVENT EXTREVE EMERGERCY.

SECRET

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

-. .. -

--iT

Copy No.

-....

---

## Page 26

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: B.

UN:T: TH/3/Xexico

EXT

: 1940

DATE : 12 FRC 63.

To : Mexico City

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFE: C/WH 5

MEXI

E NO NEA

DO FILE IN ES FILE NO.

DeStrOy

183

MEDG GEN

X/ KOUMNE

INFO DISAS SEC, NOP, ADOP, C/S0O 4, C/CA 2, C/CA/O 2, C Clo CAI 2:

INFO

CITE DIR

88863

: КУЗАТ

PEF MEXI 7353%

1. IN ADDITION TO REFERENCE REPORT, FBIS REFORI OF I1 DECENBER

SAYS TELLO, IN INTERVIEW WITH NOVEDADES, CRITICIZED OIS CLAINING IT IN

STATE OF CRISIS AND THAT CUBA'S EXCLUSION FROM OAS IS VIOLATION ITS "

CHARTER. THESE REPORTS SUGGEST TELLO DELIBERATELT ATITHPTING PRE-

ESTABZISH SEXICAN POLICY NITH REGARD CENSURE ACTIN AGAINST CUBA. IN

VIEW INPORTANCE MEXICAN POSITION THIS RESPECT, THSSE RIPORTS MATTER OF

CONSIDERABLE CONCERN HERE AND IT FELT NECESSARY TAKE APPROPRIATE ACTION

COUNTER TELLO TACTICS IN WAY THAT NILL RESULT IN MEXICAN SUPPORT FOR

STRONGSE OAS ACTION.

2. HADQUARTERS HAS CONVINCING INTELLIGENCS FROH VENSZUELAN SOURCES

AS NEI:: AS OUT. OWN WHICH SHOWS CONCIUSIVELY THAT ARMS DISCOVERED IN •

VENEZUELA ARE DISTINCTLI CUBAN. A NUMBER OF HEAPONS CAN BE IDENTIFIED

AS ESPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR CUBAN ARMY, ARMS DISCOVERED IN GENERAL HERE

OF A TYPE AND IN SUFFICIENT NUMDERS TO SUPPORT PLLY FOR TANS-OVER OP

CAPITAL CITY OF CARACAS. THEIR APPEARANCE IN VENEZUELA TIES IN SPECIFI-

CALLY WITH KNOWN FALN PLANS WITH REGARD TO LOCATIGN AND TIMING. TES

LATTER SUPPORTED BY DOCIAENTARY EVIDENCE TAKEN FROM CAPTURED FALN MEMBERS

Leis Pappene

RELEISINT

COCPOINATINS CERICERS

SECRE 1/RYBAT

REFRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE iS PROHIBITED.

APHISTICATING

OFFICER

Copy Ha

---

## Page 27

4-00000

'E:

TIASTFIED MESSAGE

DO INCY

SECRET/RY BAT

T: NO INDEX

LEILE IN CS PIS HO

PAJR 2

1289

ECUTING

2

'M: DIRECTOR

UFg

DEFERRED

FOUTINE

INFO

NOT YEI SURPACED BY VENEZUELAN GOVERNHENT, ABOVE INFORMATION FRASSES

UNDER PREPARATION FOR VISUAL PRESENTATION MILL BS SENI MAXI BIT IQB

EXPEDITIOUS MEANS.

3. HEADQUARTERS' REQUESTS THIS INFORNATION BE BROUGHT TO S

ATTENCION OF LITENSOR IN MANNER CONVINCE HIM BEYOND DOUBT DE CURANI ENE

IN VENEZUELAN TERRORISTS ACTIVITIES. TO MAXINIZE EFFECT IT FRIT THAN

THIS INFORMATION SHOULD ER ATIRIBUTED TO VINEZUELAN SOURCES, TO THE

GREATEST EXTENT POSSIBLE.

1. ADVISE IF YOU SEE COMPLICATIONS THIS APPROACH AND DO NOT RESETAYI

SUGGEST UTHER ACTIONS WHICH HIGIT BE UNDERTAKEN TO REVERSE THER SUAT

5. DRAFT OF THIS MESSAGE WAS SHOWN TO AMB. MANN.

ENC OE MESSAGE

*IN 1B:07 • Accordig iu Manni jello, tie lexicon positiou on the crasure al

Cuba ly lie OAS is "set."

C. KING

C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

WH CH H. PEAK IN DRAFT

CODRDIVATIMG OFFICERS

GROUP 1

Excluded from antaratis

LSECREX,

'RIBAT

excinisitication

REPRODUCTION BY OT

THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRO

*TES.

Ricklarat

3. WaS

WHITTAN

КИТИЕНТІ СТАТІН

Opricas

Cans. Mos

---

## Page 28

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

3Y SECRET

ROUTINO

TO

:, DIRECTOR

TAROM i MEXICOGIIY

AGTION, G/WH 5 (MR REICHHARDT WH/3 NOTIFIEO AND COPY SLOTTEO AT 2100-13 DEG 63)

INFO

DDP, ADDP, C/SCO 4, C/CA 2, 6/CA/0 2, G/FI 2, G/SAS 5, VR, G/61

SEGRET 1AN033Z

PADARATO ANA NOTE MAXE 9009

RYBAT

14 Dec 83 IN 8 0 4 45

C/S COMENT: •REQUESTED INFO RE CUBAN ARMS

DISCOVERED IN VENEZUELA BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION

of LITENSOR.

REF DIR 88863 X

1. COS CAN OF COURSE DELIVER REF INFORMATION DIRECTLY TO

HETENSOR. SUGGEST MOWEVER THAT SUCH CLANDESITNE PASSAGE DOES NOT

FACE GOM IN POSITION WHERE POSITIVE COOPERATION OTHER DAS NATIONS,

ZA NULATED.

/2. CERTAINLY GOU REALIZES MEXICAN POSTURE THIS MATTER EXTREMELY

IMPORTANT. WOULD NOT GOV THEN BE WILLING SEND MEMBER BETANCOURT'S

STAFF TO MEXI FOR PERSONAL MEETING LITENSOR TO PRESENT NEW

DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE, PERHAPS IMMEDIATEdY BEFORE INTERNATION

SURFACING? SAME VENEZUELAN REP COULD HOLD PRESS CONFERENCE AFTER

LITENSOR MEETING. THIS WOULD INSURE SULL PRESS COVERAGE, WITH

EDITORIAL FOLLOW-UP BY STATION ASSETS. PERHAPS GOM WOULD FEEL

FORCED TAXE MORE POSITIVE STAND BECAUSE OF FEAR LOCAL PUBLIC OPINION

REACTION.

3. SHOULD GOU REP HAVE DIFFICULTY OBTAINING INTERVIEN LITENSOR SI

COS MIGHT BE ABLE EXPEDITE.

A. IN ANY EVENI COS CAN DO SHOULD PARA TWO ACTION BE

Mendin

UNFEASIBLE.

SECREI

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

---

## Page 29

4-00000

UNIT I WAS/MEXICO

IXT : 5942

DATE 1 13 ING 63

TO 'Mexico CIty

FROM: DIRESTON

CONFI

C/RS.

• INFO &

ADDP, 6/ C1, C/FI 2, VR

O IN° -

DING

I FILE I CS FILE NO.

130E653 21 102

10

MEXI

REY: DIB 88863

RYBAT

INFO

CITE DIR

DERERE CEM

¡ROUiINE

IMMEDIAT

89143

1. IT HAS NOW BEEN DECIDED TO SEND MR. RERSCHEL PEAR WITH THE

VISIAL PRESENTATION AND SUPPORTING INPORMATION AND HOULD LIKB HIH TO

DO THE ACTUAL BRIEFING IN SPANISH.

3. WHEN COULD A MEETING BE SET UP FOR CURTIS AND PEAR TO SEE

LITENSOR? PEAK EXOXES AVAILABLE TO LEAVE SUNDAY EASTERN AIRLINES

PLIGET 305 TO ARRIVE MEXI 10:05. ADVISE BY NOON I4 DEC RE MESTING

SCHEDULE.

3.

AMB MANN THINKS A BRIEFING OF FORMIN TELLO WOULD ALSO BE

HELPITY, ANB EXPECTS RETURN BEXI ON SEVENTEEN DEC. HIS PRESENCE...

MIGHT FACILITATE TELLO BRIEFING.

END OF MESSAGE

8C King

dugaini

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CACUP!

Enciated lion automalle

dumndiading and

SECRET RYBAT

ercisssitillios!

REPRODUCTION BY OTIER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTLEATING

Copy Na

---

## Page 30

14-00000

CLASSITIED MESSAGE

no SECRET

ROUTING

41

31

I TO

• DIRECTOR

jeROM , MEXICO CITY

=I/M SE IMP. REICHHAROT, MH, NOTIFICO AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1620, 14 DEC 63)BP

INFO

AD0P, c/C1, C/FI 2, VR

14 D006388 0849

SECRETIA1917Z

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7391

REF A NEXI 1388 (IN 5UN68)

B DIR 89143. *

RYBAT.

1. BELIEVE EARLIEST DATE FOR LITENSOR BRIEFING WILL BE TUBESDAY,

17 DEFENSER.

ZONE OUT OF MEXICO CITY UNTIL LATE NIGHT IS DECENDER, REPORTESLY

HAS FULL SCHEDULE ON 16 DECEMBER.

3Oj WILL REPORT INMEDIATELY WUEN ABLE CONTAGI LITENSOR PERSONALLY.

AL SUGGEST PEAKE ARRIVE ANY CONVENIENT TIME ON 16 DECEMBER, WILL

MEET HAVE RESERVATIONS.

S. PLEASE ADVISE.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *HAVE DECIDED TO HAVE MR. HERSCHEL TO DO THE DEBRIEFING.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Posterd ize outsoes

dostor, be

Copy No.

4 то то.

---

## Page 31

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

di

31

• т0 .

"DIRECTOR

FROM

« MEXICO CITY

ACTION!

C/WH 5 (MR REICHHAROT WA/3 NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 212Q-13 DEG 63)

INFO : DOP, ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CA/0 2, C/61, C/FI 2, C/SAS 5, VR

SECRET IAD138Z

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7389

14 De:531880468

RYBAT

REF A DIR 19:43

#NEXE 7385 (1080445)

FOREIGN MINISTER TELLO NAS ALREADY EXPRESSED HIS BELISS

ARMS SACHE IS "A FAVE UP", MEXI STATION BELIEVES APPEARANCE OF

PEAX OR OTHER UNKNOWN KUBARKER NIGHT ONLY INCREASE THIS DISBELIEF.

2. ALF B APPARENTLY CRESSED REF A. STAÏTON REGUESTS MOS GIVE

SERIOUS CONSIDERATION PROPOSA: THAT BETAN HURT SEND PRE-BRIEFED

REPRESENTATIVE, ONLY IN THIS MANNER CAN FILL PUBLIC EXPLOSTATION

BE ACHIEVED BY STATION, REGAPDLESS OF REACTION OF LITENSON

AND INDIVIDUAL MEXICANS.

• :

SECRET

-..

Lines

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMINTED

O30EI

Prator bon adeli

Copy No.

---

## Page 32

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

HOUTING

: DIRECTOR

ZOM : MEXICO CITY

SCTION: C/WH .5

INFO : ADDP, G/SR #, D/OP, RF 2

SECRET 311932Z

3INL63M9O73S

DIR CITE VEXI 5570

RYBAT

REF: 1. MEXI 3466 (SEE PARA 3) (IN

69424)

B. N'ENI 1338 (SEE PARA 2)A

C. HUH'S 3009

1. FEINGLASS CANNOT PEPEAT NOT DO SPANISH FROM TAPES.

2. THIS HAS PUT STATION ON SPOT SINCE HAD INTENDED USE

STINGLASS DO RUSSIAN AND SPANISH ON SOVIET EMBASSY TAPES AND

MAD UNDERSTOOD AS RESULT SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS REPEATEDLY

LEVIED BY STATION THAT HE HAD SPANISH.

3. FEINSLASS HAS SE!IT WRITTEN MEMO TO COS STATING HE WILL

BE UNABLE DO SPANISH UNTIL AFTER REPEAT AFTER SOMETHING

LIKE ONE YEAR OF ADDITIONAL STUDY.

M. COS AND INSISTEO REPEATEDLY THAT SAFARANO PEPLACEMENT

DE ABLE DO SPLISH WELL ENOUGH TO GIVE TO LITENSOR. FEINGLASS

WAS SENT SY HOS TO STATION WITH STATION UNDERSTANDING THIS TRUE.

5, COS ATTEMPTING FIND ADDITIONAL WORK TO GIVE FEINGLASS

BUT ALL LOSE EXCEPT RUSSIAN TRANSLATION WILL DE CLERICAL AND LE

1: HIGH PRICES CLERKO SEE REF A FOR TINE RUSSIAN TRANSLATIONS

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC CONN

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATIO:.

REPSODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 33

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

1N 90735

PAGE 2

6. FEINGLASS IS CONSCIENTIOUS AND IT COS OPINION ME NOT TO

PLAYE FOR STATION MISUNDERSINDING HIS LINGUISTIC CAPAS ILITIES.

- SECRET

C/S COMMENT: "CABLE PRE-DATES ES FILES, COPY MAY BE SEEN IN CIA CABLE REFERENCE

FILE..

---

## Page 34

14-00000

- 7

• Y

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

OR:G:

H. B.

UNiT:

WH, 3/Mexico

CARLY: SEINDEX

EXT • 8

5940

8 NO NOX I

SECRET

DATE!

24 JULy 1963 8 FILE IN CS FILE NO.

: 50-6-75/2

10 , "HEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFE WH 8

INFO, DOP, C1/iC 2, RI/AN, SAS 8, RF

10

MEXI

INFO

PBRUMEN

REP: HEXI 3412 (IN 81732)*

50-6-7572

18-63

ROUTING

5

24J2 63

DERESEN

B ROUTINE

CITE DIR

16 38 z

R

+

Y

56÷4:

56443

SUGGEST CURTIS RAISE QUESTION OF VERRATIN TRANSCRIPTIONS

OF LIBAVOY FABULEN TAKE MITH DAINOLD TRILE LATTER MEXI. IN

VIEH FACT THAT URGUHART (WHO ALSO HOW IN ANXI) IS PRINCIPAL

END USER SUCH TAKE, DYYOUR FEELS THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SORT

OUT WHAT VERBATIN TRANSCRIPTIONS NECESBARY 703 SAS PURPOSES

AND WHAT ARE MEXI STATION CAPABILITIES HANDLE TRANSCRIPTION

LOAD.

END OF MESSAGE

WH CUT: *Ref stated that SAS wanted verbatin transcriptions

O1 LIENVOY PERUMEN take and IZENVOY present atall

could not handle.

ROJTING

INITIAL

RID'A"

0

KING

RELEASES OFFICER

C75 1389a 1185.

SAS/SO/AR

NEV/COPS

Alceletzue

COORDIMATING OFFICERS

мʼніз/мел

CACUP 1

SECRET

REPROOUBTICOPIY OTHER PHANTHE JSSUING OFFICE GOEROHIBITED.

50-6-75/2

OFFICER

0634! No.

---

## Page 35

14-00000

LASSIFIED MESSAGE

SHEl

BOUTING

•DIRECTOR

FROM

MEXICO CITY

ACTION:

tH 8

INFO

063 8, QP 2, R5 8

SEGRET 2819038

DIR CITE IXS 3438

RES DIR 35981$

221063184648

SO ARENARE VILLIES REMAIN REXI LOHS AS NESD EXISTS, DID NOT REQUEST

EXTENSION OR AROTHER TOUR FOR TEO REASONSE

Ao

HE DISAPPOINTED THAT HOS DID NOT CONSIDER HIM FOR PROHOTION

WHICH STATION FEELS NE CERPAINLY DESERVES AFTER THREE YEARS

CONMENDADLE SERVICE IN VERY DIFSICULT QUISIDE SENSSPIVE JOB.

Bo

HE VARY IS COVER STATUS SHOULD NEXT PRESIDENT NOT BE

CONFIDANT LISLEGANT AND IT NECESSARY DISASTLE, LIERVOT.

2.

MEXI AGAIN RIGLESTS ARENARY BE PROFOTED. FIS ADVISE. WILL

SUBMIT

ASH FRE WHEN FUTURE LEENOT KNOWN AND SIÄ MONTHS PHIOR ARENART

089 TRE

REASSIGMENT.

ANSUERIMO OTIZA OLESTIONS RES IN SEPARATE CABLSO

C/S COUNTO PREMESTED SYA DISCURR FOSSIGLE CUE TAR ESTERSION MITH AARMART.

01 1

MONUR A DATE NEPA

REPZODUSTION SY OTNER THAT TNI SUNO OFFICO A FROICEITED

Cary his

in mies miner.

---

## Page 36

4-00000

CLASPEL MESS SA.

1'1: 940

Mit: 1S Jul; 1963

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF, WH 3

INFOT RI/AN, OP 3, RF

10

MEXI

PER: EROIT 33C3%

DELEIN CSTENO Destro:

119 20 63 20

472

RI ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR

55521

1. RECUEST STATION DISCUSS POSSIBLE ONE YEAR EXTENSION "I'FE

AULOVE CAREER SERVICE

-AREIATT. TENUKOSAULIE, HAS APPROVOD. IP THIS NOT ACCEPTABLE.

REQUEST HE EXTEND TIL DECEMBER WHEN LIENVOY AND LICAPER FUTURES.

SI732

VILL BE DELEINED PER LENI SEIZ CAT PRESENT NO HANDY PROSPECT

FOR RAPINCENENT ARSHART. IF LICAPER CANNOT BE LAPLEWENTED,

MORSFALL, CAN REPLACE AREHART. CABLE DECISION ARPART.

8. IN VIEY STATION STAND ON LICADER CITED MEXI 5112 SHOULD

EDGS FITHHOLU REQUISITION FOR NEY LIENVOY ECUIPIENT UNTIL NOTIFIED

BY STATION?

3. WILL CABLE LATER RE HORSTALL ETA.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COUMENT: *PER On ALEtART.

CIHD

RELLASING OFFICER

CS/P./S/I PANEL Mr.

il/COP3_ju

CRODIMALINE 'OPRICESS

(in cart)

-SCOP 1

c0. 40. 011-00-8

REPRODUCTICN EY OIHER TRIAN THE ISSUING ONFICE IS PI.C: MITED.

ibitten

/ C/111/3

AUMITTIA..:

i'spy Me.

---

## Page 37

14-00000

: DIRECTOR

ONi

: MEXICO CITY

TION: WH 8

FO : DDP, CI, Cl/C95, C1/IC 2, C1/0A, COS 2, SAS 8, RE 2

R E T 1722172

INS1732

DIR CITE MEXI SA12

JUL 29T

REF DIR 5278270

1. MUCH IMPRESSED WITH HORSTALL, TRANSCRIPTION TESTS VERY

SATISFACTORY, BELIEVE LINGUISTIC CAPABILiTE AND EXPERISCS BUEN

AND EATE SUALISY HIN EXCEPTIONALLY WILL FOR LICAPER SUPERVIRSOR

OR LIENVOY IF IT CONTINUES. APPEARS CAPABLE ADAPTING NETICAN

PECULIARITISS AND NOT AVERSE SEING CUT OFF FROM OFFICINE COLONY.

2. MAIN QUESTION ONE OF TIMINE, NOW HE FAGER RETURN HERE

AND GET SETTLED, HOWEVER FEEL LNDESIRABLE EXPOSE HIM LIENVOY

PERSONVEL IF RE TO WORK ULTIMATELY IN LICAPER. DO NOT WISH LOSE HIM

HOWEVER AND CAN GUARANTES KEEP SIN SUSY DOING PEBAND TRANSLATIONS

FOR LITENSOR AND LIENVOY PERUMEN TAPES WHICH WOULD REMOVE FROM

LIENVOY FOR THIS PURPOSE. WE ARE TOLD SAS WANIS THESE VERSATIM

WHICH LIENVOY PRESENT STAFF CAN NOT HANDLE.

3. STATION SEQUESTS THEREFORE RETURN HORSFALL HERE SOUN AS

FEASIBLE IN TOURIST STATUS. WOULD LIVE IN FURNISHED GUARTERS UNTIL

NEW PRESIDENTINL CANDIDATE NAMED (EARLY OCTOSER AT LATESTY

AND FATE OF LIENVOY AND LICAPER XION. AT THAT TIME CANDIDATE CON-

CERNSE WOULD ARRANGE COVER AND LORSFALL STATUS WOULD CHANGE FROM

COUPLET NO HOUTH ACTS CLO BE BROUGHT IN. PLEASE.

largest a restric door.

REPRCSUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING 01000 C. F:.

Copy No.

---

## Page 38

14-00000

•CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 8173÷

- PAGE 2

AUTHORIZE HORSFALL BUY COMPACT OP VEHICLE HERE AT 11,000 PE SO

CEILING. WHEN PERTINENT HQ SHOULD ARRANGE HAVE HIS PIANO SHIPPED MERE

TO SOMEONE STILL ELIGIBLE RECEIVE IT.

SECRET

C/s COMMENT:

"ORVILLE R. HORSFALL WILL ARRIVE MEXI 1243, HOURS WEDNESDAY 1O JULY.

---

## Page 39

14-00000

CLASSAICATINN

DISPATCH KAPOK SECRET

•Chief as Station, Mexico C1tY..

FROM

Chief. Vu DIvielon

LIENYOY Tapes for Tralning

ACTAN REQUIRLO RESUSENCES

REF: HH3T-3694

MATALO ICA INSULTE

ONET QUALIND DISA

1MN00NL

'en.

Returaed under soparate cover are the 15 tapea which

were furnished Headquartors for training purposes.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachm Disivor Tapes

u/s/c

CAOSS REFERENCE 10

Diatribution:

051 - COS, Moxico City w/atte

DISPATEN STRACE ANO NUMBER

ЛАТЕ

HMM1S-2980

18 duno 1983

CLASSIFICATION

SBC&

E KAPON

MOS FRE NUMBER

ORIGINATING

since

. ~ R

. - Chron

WHEE STRaY

YH/3/exico/Bustös: dd

CCURDINATING

DATE

CFFICENS HAVE

F.XT

5910

C/N HD

"DATE

19135

(30)

"SA" 53 USE PREMOLSEAMON

RELEASIN'S

707.

C. King

DISPATCH

---

## Page 40

14-00000

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

21 SECRET

INFO:

C/WH 5

DCI, 0/0C1, DDP, ADDP, C/CA, S/C 2

1N36488

11 MAY 1963

SECRET 1D2344Z

DIR CITE MEXI 4544

.....:

RYBAT

ATTN, KNIGHT AND GALBOND

FOLLOWING FROM AMBASSADOR MANN TO ASST SECY MARTIN:

(MESSAGE CONTINUES ON NEXT PAGE)

C/S COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO CSSOP 210-313 CABLES.

DISSEMINATION RESTRICTED. TEXT DIRECTED TO ANOTHER U.S. GOVT.

OREANIZATION.

.

........Г SIT

GROUP 1

TEXCLUDED GROCAUTOMATIC. DO/N-

---

## Page 41

14-00000

-..

SiC

DATE:

10 MAY 63...

FROM: MEXICO CITY

TO : DIRECTOR

RECD:

MAY 11 0156Z 63

ROUTINE

IN 36488

FOLLONING FROM ANSASSADOR MANN TO ASST SECY MARTIN:

"LOPEZ MATEOS, WHO IS EXTREMELY SENSITIVE TO FOREIGN OPINION,

HAS ASKED WIN SCOTT FOR COLLECTION OF U.S. VIEWS ON HIS

RECENT LATIN AMERICAN DERUCLEARIZATION PROPOSAL •

RECENTLY SCOTT FURNISHED LOPEZ MATEOS EUROPEÄN NEWS CLIPPINGS

OV HIS TOUR, PARTICULARLY WEST BERLIN WALL INCIDENT. WHICH SEEMED

TO DISTRUS LOPEZ, MATEOS BECAUSE HE WAS PRAISED BY EAST GERMAN

FRESS BUT CRITICIZED BY WESTERN PAPERS. ON NEW REQUEST SCOTT

TOLD LOPEZ MATEOS THAT HE WOULD PROBABLY BE ASLE FURNISH ONLY U.S.

NEVS MEDIA COVERAGE AND REACTION ON DENUCLEARIZATION AS HE, SCOTT;

DOES NOT DEAL AT OFFICIAL LEVEL ON SUCH POLICY MATTERS.

"BECAUSE OF (A) LOPEZ MATEOS' SENSITIVITY TO OPINION ABROAD:

(8) FACT THERE HAS BEEN NO REACTION FROM US OTHER THAN DEPT

PRESS RELEASE AND. YOUR CONVERSATION WITH CARRILLO FLORES &DEPT

CIRCULAR TELEGRAM 1875): AND (C) FACT THAT SOVIET, CUBAN AND POLISH

AMSASSADORS HERE HAVE PUBLICLY COMMENTED FAVORABLY ON PROPOSED

DENUCLEARIZATION, I SUGGEST WE CONSIDER FOLLOWING:

"PREPARE A CAREFUL STATENENT IN WASHINGION, ALONG LINES

YOUR REMARKS TO CARRILLO FLORES, COMMENTING AS FAVORABLY AS POSSIBLE

ON LOPEZ MATEOS'S DENUGLEARIZATION PROPOSAL WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF

SECRET

---

## Page 42

.... . ...

SECRET

PAGE 2

MEXICO CITY

IN 36488

OUR OWN POLICY POSITION WHICH I'M SURE HAS BEEN CAREFULLY WORKED OUT.

THIS STATEMENTCOULD BE ATTRIBUTED TO SOME SPECIFIC U.S. OFFICIAL

OR TO UNIDENTIFIED HIGH OFFICIAL. IF APPROVED, SUSGEST BE SENT

DIRECTLY TO SCOTT VIA CAS FOR CAS FOR DELIVERY IO LOPEZ MATEOS."

SECRET

S

R

---

## Page 43

4-00000

BUSTOS

UNIT :

WEVE/MEXICO O INDEX

EXT : • 5940

DATE :

25 APRIL 22681 FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO : MAXICO CITY

FROM: DIREGTOR

CONFE

bH 8

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

17-52

P.OUTING

4

5

,260r.53 28

4l2

•PEFERRE

B ROUTINE

INFO &

PG 2, CI/OA, CCS 2, S/C

TO

HEXI

INFO

CITE DIR

35426

RE: MEXI 4238 (IN 21625) *

1. FEEN HUNT 3380 RECEIVED AT END JAN FOS BUDGET REASONS

AQS DID NOT IYMEDIATELY SUEMIT LIENVOY PROJ AMENDENT NEEDED TO

PERCEASE NEW EVUIP, ESTISATED COST FOR EQUIP HAS ROUGHLY $20,000.

BOS ORIGINALLY UNDERSTOOD OLD EQUIP HOULD BE USED IN PROPOSED LITEMPO

TAP CENSER AND CE UNIT.

2. WHEN HUS RECEIVED EMMA 20890 IN MID MARCH SAYING LITEMPO

WOULD USE MEXICAN EQUIP AND STATION WAS SUBHITTING PROS OUTLINE, ERS

CONTINUED HOLD LIENVOY REQUEST TO REVIEW ENTIRE LITEMPO/LIENVOY TAP

CENTER PROBLEM. HUS STILL AWAITING ITEMPO TAP PROJ.

3. IN VIEW LARGE COST EQS WONDERS WHETHER SECURITY STILL CALLS

FOR REPLACEKENT EQUIP. HQS BAS RECEIVED NO WORD ON PROPOSED LIENVOY

MOVE SINCE AUGUST 1962.

4. SO THAT HUS CAN AGAIN REVIEW REQUEST FILL LIENVOY EQUIP

PLS SUBMIT SOONEST PROJ ON LITEMPO TAP UNIT AND MORE DETAILS OF

PROPOSED LIENVOY MOVE. CANNOT JUSTIFY REPLICING ELUIP IF SITE NOT TO

BE CHANGED, AND PREFER WAIT UNTIL FISCAL 64.

RELEASING OFFICER

CCORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP 1

Acx5o.29-8129

REFRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

sergion

AUTHEMTEERTIMO

Copy Na.

---

## Page 44

4-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIGI

UNIT i

хт .

DATE :

c.

та. :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFE

INFO &

то

O INDEX

• FILE IN CS FILE NO.

• :

into

ROLING

pAgE 2

DEFERREO

ROUTINE

CITE DIR

2=428

INFO

5. RELATED PROBLEM IS COVAR FOR TARASOPE. PLS NOTIFY RES

YOUR DECISION ANU DESIRED ETA DATS. BBE MAXI 3468.7*

END OF MESSAGE

#it Cormant: When can Station o pect LIEYPOY equipsant?

C/S COMMENT: (IN 69474)

R.cv. Herat

RELEASING OFFICER

WE/COPS

W hood

COORDIMATINE OFFICERS

CACUP I

linirades tram autoretre

deciassilical.oa

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING CEFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 45

4-00000

117169ae

ORIG: IL JUOKIRS: de

UNIT WH/3/M5SIC0

EXT.

5940

PATE : 22 APSTE 1953

. 10

• CASCaGO CITR

,'FROMS

DIRECTOR

CONF,

WH 8

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

O INDEX

D NO INDEX L

SECRET

O FILE IN CS FILE NO

INFO :

61, CI/OPS, 61/RA, FI, TSD 5, S/C

HEXI

INFO

NEES MEXT b20 (INI 19807)*

it. LIENVOY sypeit

POUTING

7586763 18 582

DEFERREfE CEN

B / ROUTINE

CITE DIR

35066

1. HES APPROVES LOAM OE ONE STERLLE SPARE B-1O DIAL PULSE RECORDER

TO DURKTT®

2. IOS USCESS CLOSE SUPPORI IREASURI/RURCOTICS INVESTIGATIONE. METI

MAY PROVIOS DUZKIN HITH OCCASIONAL LIFBAT COUBRADI PROVIDED NO LIFEAI TARB

GIVEH TO ISTICASS.

EID OE MESSACHS

a Canurs nall1en J. Duridn, Treaoury rep sastgoed to Masdico 1mrastigatis

sarcotica ¿rafflo, approaciod Station se dlal recordor los faona

tay on Modicen targot.

(BY PROSE)

OX/07S TRUNE NOS E llegle

Ha/COPs.

C/R&A/IC Fstiea

1 A/

neilAsna criises

COORDIMATING OFFICERS

СANPI

Ercluctns dram duloralie

demldi dd.ng.818

BHOBEE

rruubuencalon

¡ RERISDUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

OHGATEATINA

::.Copy Na..

---

## Page 46

14-00000

ATIC

S/C 2

1N21625

SECRET IS2345Z

2 0 APR 1963

DIR CITE MEXI 4238

REF MÜNT-33S0, 21 JAN 63

STATION WOULD LIKE TO KNOW WHEN IT CAN EXPECT TO

RECEIvE

EQUIPMENT

REQUESTED IN REF.

SECRET

---

:

Tiere

558-39/57-69

4-+-41-97151

NO4-1700703057

GRXP 1

¡REDÔ dIO DECLASSIFICATION.

•SUFFICE IS PASHIBITED

+90494055849 septe lee dodd dati de deut tate

---

## Page 47

14-00000

ATE :

POM :

STION:

IFO

034

6 APR 63

DIRECTOR

BONN

24

ADEP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/EE 3, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-L-C-R-E-T

ROUTING

5

APR 6 19212 63

SERVICE

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

INFO

BONN 4460 IN 12661 A

CITE

RYBAT

C/S COMMENT:

COMPLETE ADDRESS LINE TO READ:

"OPIM BRLN INFO OPIM DIR MEXI FRAN PARI CITE BONN 4460"

•

K

S-E-C-R-E-T

GROUP

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROATS ESCLASS ESCATION

---

## Page 48

4-00000

CLASSES C; MESSARE

30 SECRET

IT

ACT: 0.%:

INFG:

C/WH 5*

DDP, ADDP, C/CA 2, C/C1, C/F| 2, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, S/C 2

SECRET DOITBOZ

OPIM MEXI SONN INFO DIR FRAN CITE BRLN 2433

INI2861

li APR 1963

RYBAT

THOUGH MEDICATOR DISOR USEO

*ACTICN UNIT DETERMINED A

REF BONN 4463 (NOT TO MEXI OR DIRY FY **NO RECORD IN CABLE SECRETARIAT AS OF

1. REF INDICATES ROMERO ADVISED BY TELEPHONE FROM MEXI THAT

HE WOULD BE CONTACTED SALN UPON ARRIVAL. WISH ADVISE ALL ADDEES

THAT PRESIDENT MATEOS AND PARTY TOTALLING SEVENTY REPEAT SEVENTY

VISITING BREN SUNDAY 7 APRIL FOR TOTAL OF ONLY SIX HOURS, ARRIVING

VIA CHARTER PANAMN AIRCRAFT CIRCA 1000 HOURS LOCAL, WHERE WILL BE

MET BY MAYOR OF BRLN ALBERTZ AND OTHER CITY OFFICIALS, WILL TOUR

CITY, SEE WALL, VISIT MEXICO PLATZ, ATTEND LUNCH HOSTED BY SIEMENS

FACTORY. PARTY DEPARIS 1600 HOURS LOCAL. AT NO TIME. ARE ANY .

AMERICANS INCLUDED IN PARTY. SEE NO OPPORTUNITY AND LESS REASON

ATTEMPT ESTABLISH CONTACT WITM ROMERO ESPECIALLY IN ABSENCE ANY

MESSAGES FOR PRESIDENT MATEOS. NOTE PARTY IN BONN PAST THREE DAYS

WHERE IT EVIDENTLY QUITE POSSIBLE APPROACH ROMERO IF SUCH NECESSARY.

CANNOT IN ANY CASE MAKE APPROACH CLANDESTINELY SINCE WELCOMING PARTY

AND BERLIN CITY GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS WILL BE PRESENT THROUGHOUT

VISIT.

2.

BONNS VIEW ABOVE REQUEST YOU ADVISE ROMERO ARRANGEMENTS FOR

VISIT BRLN PRECLUDE SECURE CONTACT WHICH IN ANY CASE SEEMS UNNECESSARY

VIEW SHORTNESS VISIT. UNLESS SPECIFICALLY ADVISED TO CONTRARY WILL

NOT REPEAT NOT ATTEMPT APPROACH ROMERO.

SECRET

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTONAT:C DOWN-

REPACOUCTION BY DINER RIER

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION.

THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 49

14-00000

CLASSIF: ED MESSAGE

30 SEAN

ACTICH:

INFO

DDP, ADDP, C/CA 2, C/C1, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, S/C 2**

SECRET 060800Z

DIR INFO MEXI BONN CITE HAGU 3628

6 APR IS:

REE DIR 25991 fA*

IN| 2890

1à STATION ATTEMPIS OFFER SERVICES TO PRESIDENT FRUSTRATED BY

A. LANGUAGE DIFFICULTIES WITH ROMERO. SPANISH SPEAKER

CALLED HOTEL TWICE 3 APR WITH COMPLETE LACK OF RESPONSE ON PART

PERSON WHO SAID HE WAS ROMERO.

B: ATTEMPTED CONTACT COL GRAMOS LATER 3 APR AND WAS TOLD

BY ANOTHER ENGLISH SPEAKING COLONEL CARDUNAS THAT GRAMOS WAS IN

MEXICO CITY.

CO UPON CALLING ROMERO AGAIN A APR WAS TOLD HE WAS NOT REG-

ISTERED THERE.

2. REGRET FAILURE MAXE CONTACT BUT PRESUME THAT IF PRESIDENT

HAD NEEDED STATION SERVICES HE WOULD HAVE HAD AIDE CALL NUMBER

ALREADY PROVIDED IN MABU 3494. (IN 90740)

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USED.

##DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES.

##RE MEXICAN PRESIDENT MAKING TRIP TO GERMANY, FRANCE AND THE NETHERLAND:

N MARCH AND APRIL

ESIRES TO SEND MESSAGES TRRU KUZARK CHANNELS HAS AUTHORI

CONTACT BETWEEN LOPEZ SECRETARY RUMERO AMO ADDRESSEE STA

• GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-

¿RADING MID DECLASSIFICATES :.

REPRODUCTION BY JIMER

THAN ISSUTRE OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 50

4-00000

CLASSIF: ED MESSAGE

5

6

• ACTION:

INFO:

€/WH

50 (WH COPY SLOTTED 1630 6 APR 63 BP)

DDP, ADDP, C/CA 2, C/C1, C/F1 2, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, S/C 2

SEGRET 06ZOBEZ

OPIN BRLN MEXI INFO OPIM HAGU PRITY DIR CITE FRAN 7941

RYBAT

REF BRLA 2ASS (1*12561) +4

16 APR 1963

INI2901

BONN 4463

***

IN VIEW REFS, AS ROMERO HAS REQUESTED HE WILL BE FURNISHED

TELEPHONE NUMBER IN BERLIN FOR EMERGENCY USE, ON Y APRIL THUS

E1. IMINATING NECESSITY FOR PERSONAL CONTACT BY BOB: ROMERO WILL BE

GIVEN BOS OFFICE NUMBER BY WYKOFF FOR THIS PURPOSE, AND CAN GIVE

HIS NAME STATING HAS MESSAGE TO LEAVE.

SEGRET

C/S COMMENT: #ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USED.

#*RE MEXICAN PRESIDENT OFFICIAL VISIT TO ADDRESSEE COUNTRIES:

#O"NO RECORD IN CABLE SECRETARIAT AS OF 1715 6 APR•63.

K

GROUP 1

• EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATEO:.

herine lo namineten

---

## Page 51

CLASSIF: ED MESSAGE

ACTION.

INFO :

C/VM 6 (WH COPY SLOTTE AT: 0415 6 APRIL 63)JA

ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, S/C 2

SECRET A597A9Z

DOIM MEXI DOLN INFO OPIM RONY PRITY DIR PART HAGU CITE FRAY 7936

RYDAT

& APR 1953

REF MEXI 1931

(6N 99541)

IN12640

DIR 35001

1. CONTACT MADE AT RONN EVENING S ADR WITH ROMERO WMO WITH

PRESIDENT LOPF7. MATEOS AT THE TIME. PERSIDENT MATEOS TODY MYYOFF

ASIDE A'ID ADOLOGIZEO FOR MIXUD AT PARIS TAÏINA MIS DOOLE WERE AT

FAULT A'ID HERE JUST REINS VERY CAREFUL. PARSIDENT STATED YE HAD

HA MESSAGES FOR RELAY TODAY BUT MOULD LIYE TO ASY A FAVOR. SAID

ALTHOUGH IT IS MOT KNOWN PURLICLY THAT 4E AND YIS PARTY ARE GOING

TO PERLIN, AND

IN FACT HAVE DEVIED IT, THEY ARE LANNIUS TO DO SO

D'S AFTERVODY 6 APRIL AND WOULD LIKE THE SAME SERVICE THERE NS M4VS

DEEN EXTENDED TO HIM RY WYKOFF AND WITTENBERGER. WAS ADVISED IT

MDIO DE ARRANTED. MATEOS SAID ALL THAT WOULD RE NECESSARY IN MAKING

CONTACT IN PERLIN WOULD SE FOR THE DERSON CONTACIING ROMERO TO SAY.

HE MAS A FRIEND OF WIN SCOTT, MATEOS AND ROMERO STATED THEY

DLANITE TO STAY IN BERLIN AT HOTEL YEMDINSKI, INDICATING WOULD

DE THERE A DAY OR SO AND NAY RE RETURNING CIRCTLY TO MEXICO CITY

FROM BERLIN.

?. PERLIN: RACHGROUNY TRAFFIC REINS RELAYED OPIM.

PRESIDENT

ADOLFO LOPEZ MATEOS OF MEXICO MAYINS OFFIGRAL VISIT FRANCE, GERMANY SI

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DONNA

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATES:

REPRODUCTION BY UTTER FAT ISSUTNG OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

-"IT45)T5X90TEXXAIATEETAEEA

---

## Page 52

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

12040

A'D HOLLAND MARCY AVD APRIL. COS MEXI IS IN CLANDESTIVE CONTACT WITH

PRESIDENT VITY KNOWLEDSE OF ODACID. LOPEZ REDUESTED NAMES OF

FRIENDS OF COS MEXI IN PARI, PONN, HASUE WHO COULD CONTACT HIS

DRIVATE SECRETARY HUMBERTO ROMERO (DERE?) AT EACH PLACE DURING VISIT.

LODEZ WILL VANT TO SEND AND RECEIVE MESSASE THROUGH KUSARY COMMO

CHAVVELS TO AND FROM HIGH MEXICAN OFFICIALS AND ALSO KUBARK MEXI.

HE DOES NOT TRUST HIS OWN FOREIGN SERVICE COMMO. HAS AUTHORIZED

CONTACT ASTWEEN LOPEZ SECRETARY ROMERO AND YUBARX STATIONS TO

PICK UP AVD DELIVER MESSAGES. ROMERO SPEARS GOOD ENGLISH AND

STATION OFFICER MUST USE ALIAS. INITIAL CONTACT TO ROMERO CAN RE

MADE USINS WIN SCOTTS NAME AS DESCRIBED.

PARI HAS USED NAME

WITTENPERGER IN CONTACTINS ROMERO AND THE NAME JOHN WYKOFF WAS

USTD IN PONN.

SECRET

FURTYER DETAILS FOLLOW•

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION. UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USED.

SECRET

---

## Page 53

14-00000

•CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEBAST

ACTIONE: C/IH 8 (COPY TO WH (ICTION) AÑO EE (INFO) OÓOO E EPRIL 63) JA

INFO :

ADDP, C/CA 2, C/ C1, C/FL 2, C/EE 3, S/C E

SECRET OGIO3OZ

OPIM BRLN INFO OPIM DIR MEXI FRAN CITE BONN 4460

RYBAT

1£200 la

REF FRAN 7936 (M 12648)

1., LOPEZ AND PARTY NOW DEPARTING BONN FOR BRLN 0748

HOURS 7 APRO

20 LAPOLLA AS WYKOFF TALKED AT BONN TO ROMERO NOT LOPEZ:

LAPOLLA APOLOGIZED TO ROMERO FOR MIXUP AT PARIS RATHER THAN

LOPEZ APOLOGIZING TO LAPOLLA.

3. FOR BRLN: DUE TO ROMERO PRESS OF BUSINESS PHONE CALLS.

MAY NOT ESTABLISH CONTACT. MAY BE NECESSARY TO GAMP IN HOTEL

. LOBBY AND CONTACT ROMERO ENTERING OR LEAVING AS VAS DONE AT

BONN.

4. FOR FRAN: LAPOLLA AND THOMPFORD WILL REMAIN BONN UNTIL

LOPEZ DEPARTURE.

SECRET

IN12651

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USED.

365

Livery ey

GROUP

EXCLUDED FROM AUTONATIC DOWN-

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATIO I.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAT I55UTAG OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 54

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

6 SECRET

2

3

Mcilvil:

CH5*

INFS.

!..

ADDP, C/C1, C/F| 2, C/EE 3, CANE 2, S/C 2

SEGRET 821552Z

* OPIM MEXI INFO DIR BONN MAGU PARI CITE FRAN 7814

RYBAT

REF

PARE TIS (ONS)

2 APR 1963.

RE PARA THREE REF SHOULD WE CONTACT GRAMOS OR ROMERO.

SECRET

1N99428

• C/S COMMENT: ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USED.

*#SUGGESTED MEH IDENTIFY GRAMOS SINCE ME VERY DEFINITE THAT HE AV COURANT ON

CONTACT AND THAT ROMERO NOT.

GROUP 1

SECRET

TERRE ARE SELLESMFIE PRO

REPAOOUCTION BY OIMER THIN ISSUING OFFICE 15 PROHIENTED.

---

## Page 55

14-00000

?

ACTION: C/hit 5

INFO : ADCP, C/CI, C/EE 3, C/IE 2, S/C=

SECRET 821745Z

OPIN FRAN INTO ROUTINE DIR BONY LAGU CITE MEXI MASI COUSLER ACTING)

RETS MEAN TiSA /82003) $

i APR 1963.

IN99541

ASPRECIATE ATTEMPT CONTACI ROMERO. IF THIS DIFFICULT OR

INPOSSISLE THEN CONTACT GRAMOS.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *APPARENTLY MRUTU DEFERENCE.

REPREDUCTION SY SEER

GROUP 1

32451

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICA. ON.

SUING CFFICE IS PROMISITED.

---

## Page 56

4-00000

2

-ELASSIFIED MESSAGE

Nicket, 5

ACTION:

.INFO s

C/AN 5 (VE AND WH, COPIES SLOTTED AT 1400 29 MAR OJ)

100P, C/C1, C/F1 2, C/LE. 3, C/VE 2, 5/C 2

SECRET 2916387

PRITY MEXI INFO PRITY DIR BONN FRAN ROUTINE HAGU CITE PARE 711S

RYBAT

RET PARS 1992(1 96410)

IN 97152

89 MAR 1963 1N9715

i: REGRET MAVING TO REPORT THAT SOLUTION OF MYSTERY OF TVO WITTEN-

BERGERS IS CLASSIC EXAMPLE OF LEFT AND RIGHT HANDS OPERATING IDEPEND-

ENTZY: I.EO, UNCOORDINATED EFFORT BY TWO STATION OFFICERS TO ESTABLISH

CONTACT: CONFUSION ON PART OF MEXICANS CERTAINLY UNDERSTANDABLE..

2. NIGHT 28 MARYCH TELEPHONE CONTACT VAS MADE VITH LT COL GRAMOS UHO

IMMEDIATELY STATED HE PERSON PARI SUPPOSED BE TALKING TO AND ROMERO NOT

AWARE WHAT GOING ON: GRAMOS STATED WOULD RETURN CALL TO CASE OFFICER

DURING NIGHT: DID NOT DO SO: TELEPHONE CONTACT EARLY MORNING 29 MARCH

PRODUCED RESPONSE FROM GRAMOS TU EFFECT HE HAD NO NEED OUR SERVICES:

3. SUGGEST MEXI IDENTIFY BRAMOS SINCE HE VERY DEFINITE THAT HE AU

COURANT ON CONTACT AND THAT ROMERO NOT.

4. FOR BONN, FRAN, MAGU, HIGHLY DESIRABLE THAT KUBARK CONTACT SPEAK

SPANISH.

5: HOPE VILLARD C. CURTIS IN DUE COURSE WILL APOLOGIZE TO ROMERO IN

OUR BEHALF FOR MIX-UP:

SECRET

C/S COMMENT:

*ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDIÇATOR DYVOUR. USED :

ORE : ALLEGED WITTENBERGER AND "OTHER WITTENBERGER"..

GROUP 1.

XCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DONN.

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION.

REPROCUCTION BY OFER TRAL ISSEHO UFICE IS PROHIBITED

---

## Page 57

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

! SECRET

ACTION:

C/ 5(WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1500, 28 MAS OU)

INFO: ADOP, C/C1, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/VE 2, S/C 2

SECRET. 2818397

OPIM MEXI INTO OPIM DIR PRITY FRAN BONN ROUTINE MAGU CITE PARI 7892

RYBAT

95070

REF A. PARI 7842 SNOT SENT BONN MAGU)

1N96410

Bo MEXI 3947/

"95547)

1. FURTHER REPEATED EFFORTS CONTACT ROMERO HAVE SEEN TOTALLY

FRUSTRATED BY AIDE TO ROMERO, LT. RODRIGUEZ, WHO REFUSES PERMIT "WITTEN-

BERGER® TALX TO ROMERO, EVEN WHEN HE AVAILABLE, WHICH IS RARE BECAUSE

OF NUNEROUS OFFICIAL CEREMONIES.. WHEN WETHERILL CALLED MORNING 28 MARCH,

RODRIGUEZ SAID ROMERO HAD JUST TALKED TO WITTENBERGER AND MADE APPOINT-

NENT WITH HIM FOR FIVE O'CLOCH SAME AFTERNOON, WHEN VETHRILL SAID THIS

IMPOSSIBLE, R INSISTED HAD BEEN PRESENI DURING CONVERSATION:

2. VETERILL CALLED AT 1$888 HRS, ASKED IF ALLEGED VITTENBERGER HAD

APPEARED ON SCHEDULE. RODRIGUEZ COUNTERED BY ASKING NAME WETHERILL'S

SECRETARY. GAVE HIM FIRST NAME. R SAID WOULD CALL BACK, AND HAS NOT

DONS SO. BELIEVE THIS IS END OF THE LINE. ONLY ALTERNATIVE AT THIS

FOINT IS TO ABANDON COMPLETELY SECURITY WHICH ALREADY BADLY LACERATED:

3. ONLY EXPLANATION'WE CAN OFFER FOR STORY OF "OTHER VITTENBERGER"

POT, AND APPROPRIATE GIVE HIM SOME OF OWN MEDICINE:

1. IN LIGHT THIS EXPERIENCE SUGGEST RECONSIDERIYND@YAULIPFEMTHER'

STATIONS TRYING CONTASI ROMERO. HOPE MEXI WILL EVENTUALLY LEARN TRUE

STORY OTHER WITTENBERGER", SINCE NOT IMPOSSIBLE FRENCH SHHO UNDOUBTEDLY

GROUP 1

CEONE

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

REPAQOUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE ISPROHIBITED

---

## Page 58

4-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ACTION:

INFO :

IN 96410 PARI 7092

MONITORING PALAIS D'ORSAY PHONE) HAVE BEEN PLAYING GAMES, ALTHO THIS

HARDLY MAKES SENSE.

SENE THOUGHT MEXICANS WERE SUPPOSED TO BE SO FRIENDLY.

__SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *SUGGESTED WAKOFF AND STRATFORD CALL "ROMERO SAY, FRIENDS OF WINSTON "

SCOTT'S IN MEXT AND ASK IF CAN BE OF SERVICE TO PRESIDENT AND SAY"

WELL CALL AGAIN.

S/C NOTE:

PORTION GARBLED-BEING SVCD.

GROUP 1

SECRET

REPRODUCT ON EY OTHER TAN ISSUING OFFICE I SPROHIRITED"

EXCLUDE AND DE CLASSATIE DON

---

## Page 59

14-00000

-lis

DATE :

'To:

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO :

092

25 MAR 63

DIRECTOR

PARIS

21

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

5

ADDP, C/Ci, C/EE 3, C/TE 2, S/ 2

: TO

INFO

MAR 29 0130Z 63

SERVICE

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 96410 A PARI 7092

CITE

RYBAT

C/S COMMENT: COMPLETE PARA 4, LINES I AND 2 TO READ:

14. IN LIGHT THIS EXPERIENCE SUGGEST RECONSIDER DESIRABILITY OTHER.

STATIONS TRYING CONTACT ROMERO, HOPE MEXI WILL EVENTUALLY LEARN TRUE..."

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

EN A BETTE PREN-

Copy No.

---

## Page 60

4-00000

3.-

=

SECRET

ACTION: C/WH5

INFO:

APOP, C/EE 3, CAVE 2, S/C 2

S E GRET 2819827

OP IM TRAN INFO DIR BONN PARI HAGU CITE REXI 3967

RYBAT

REF FRAN 7672. (N 95990) *

YES:

SECRET

28 MAR 1963

IN96402

CS COMMENT: REQUESTED IS DATA PARA ONE REF 5 APR.

GROUP 1

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DONN

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE ISPROHIBITED .:

---

## Page 61

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SET

ACTION:

INFO. :

1D0P, C/EE 3, C/VE 2, D/O6 2, S/6 2

SECRET 231052Z

ODEN REXI INTO DIR BONN PARI HAGU GITE FRAN 7672

RYSAT

REE NEXT 394T(555471*

IS DATA PARA ONE REF S APRIL?

SECRET

-

WN95990

28 MAR 1953

• C/S COUMENT: *RE DATE LOPEZ MATEOS SCHEDULED ARRIVE IN BONN.

GROUP 1

REPRODUETION BY OTHER TAN ISSUINE OTTICS ISPROMISITED"

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOVATIC DONN

GRADINC AND DECLASSIFICATION

---

## Page 62

14-00000

ACTION:

INFO:

IL SECRET

C/AH 5) C/MI COPY SLOTTED. AT 0655 27 MAR 63 JA)

ADDRa C/CA 2, C/61, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, CAVE 2, D/06 2, S/6 2

SECRET 2T IDAZ

87 MAX 1963

OPIM DIR INTO OPIM MEXI ROUTINE FRAN CITE PARI 7842

RYBAT

REF DIR 25991 Y

IN95070

• 10 MAVING DETERMINED THAT ROMERO STAYING WITH LOPEZ MATEOS AT

OFFICIAL GUEST RESIDENCE, PALAIS D'ORSAY, WETHERILL TRIED CONTACT

KIM BY PHONE EVENING 26 MARCH. TALKED TO UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER .

ENTOURAGE WHO SAID ROMERO NOT THERE BUT RETURNING SHORTLY.

VETHERILL GAVE NAME WITTENBERGER, FRIEND OF SENOR BLANCO, TIO,

ETC. CALLED BACK LATER, GOT SAME MAN WHO SAID HAD GIVEN VITTEN

BERGER NAME TO ROMERO, WHO DID NOT RECOGNIZE IT, OR KNOW WHO SENOR

BLANCO WAS. WOULD NOT PUT ROMERO ON PHONE WITHOUT FURTHER EX

FLANATION OF WHAT BUSINESS WITTENBERGER HAD WITH ROMERO. IN VIEN

INCREASINGLY AVRVARD SECURITY SITUATION, WETHERILL BROKE OFF CON-

VERSATION.

2. SUBSEQUENTLY DELIVERED PERSONAL NOTE TO PALAIS D'ORSAY

FOR ROMER FEING SAME RECOGNITION NAMES AND BEVING TVO PHONE

NUMBERS FOR CONTACI, ONE EMBASSY, ONE HOME. HAVE HEARD NOTHING:

3. MEXI: PLS GIVE US SOME FURTHER IDENTIFICATION MATERIAL VE

CAN USE ON PHONE WITH ANY ONE WHO ANSWERS PHONE IN PRESIDENTIAL

SUITE. WAS ROMERO ACTUALLY GIVEN NAME WITTENBERGER?

SECRET

C/S COMMENT:

#LOPEZ REQUESTED NAMES OF FRIENDS DO COS MEXI IN ADDRESSEE CITIES WHO. •

COULD CONTACT HIS PRIVATE SECRETARY HUMBERTO ROMERO AT EACH PLACE DIRING VISIT. WILL USE

KUBARK COMMO CHANNELS.

SECRET

TEACHINE AROM ALASTIE TOON

GRADING AND CECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

---

## Page 63

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

23 SECRET

ACTION: C/WH 5

INFO : ADDP, C/EE 3, CAVE 2, D/OC 2, S/C 2

4

SEC R ET T.2719492

PRITY FRAN INFO DIR PARI BONN MAGU CITE MEXI 3947

IN95547

RYBAT

REF FRAN 7685 NOT SENT HAGUYN 94-5S)

• 27 MAR 1963

1. PRESIDENT LOPEZ NATOS SCHEDULED ARRIVE IN

I BONN AT 1280 HOURS

(SONN TIME) SO TO INFORMAL LUNCH AT 1300 HOURS.

2. HE AND. PARTY STAYING AT KOENIGSHOF.

30 REAL NAME OF CONTACT IN MEXICO IS WINSTON SCOTT• ROMERO KNOWS

PERSONALLY AND IS AVARE PRESIDENT IS CONTACT AND FRIEND.

4. PRESIDENT'S MAIN CONCERN IS FOR MESSAGES FROM MEXICO IF

REPEAT IF ANY SENSITIVE MATTERS LOCALS CONE OF WHOM ACTING CHIEF

OF MEXICAN GOVERNMENT, WHO CONTACTS OF SCOTT WISH SEND TO MIM BY

KUBARK CHANNELS:

5. PRESIDENT GIVEN NAMES OF FRIENDS OF SCOIT SPER DIR - 25991) IN

PARIS. BONH, HAGUE, BUT, FROM PARIS, IT OSVIOUS HE HAS NOT

BRIEFED ROMERO.

6, SUGGEST, THEREFORE, WYKOFF AND STRATFORD CALL ROMERO SAY FRIENDS

OF WINSTON SCOTT'S IN MEXICO AND ASK IF CAN BE OF SERVICE TO

PRESIDENT AND SAY VILL CALL AGAIN,

SECRET

C/S COMMENT:

*REQUESTED ANY WORD IF ARRIVAL DATE NOW ANTICIPATED OF LOPEZ

MATEOS IN BONN AND NAME IF HOTEL HE PLANVING TO STAY THERE.

Ege024

GROUP

EXCLUDED FROM AUTO-ATIC DON

GRADING AND DECLASSIFIGATION

REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSHING DEFIRE ISPRAHIRITEA

---

## Page 64

14-00000

CLASSIE!:

1:FO: 10DP, C/C1, C/FI 2, C/LE 3, C/WE 2, S/C 2

SECRET 271634Z

OPIY PARI INFO DIR CITE MEXI 3944

REF: PARI 7042

(*5078).

1N95416

1.: REAL NAME IS WINSTON SCOTT. ROMERO KNOWS PERSONALLY

AND IS AWARE PRESIDENT, IS CONTACT AND FRIEND.

2. PRESIDENT HAS BEEN ADVISED OF CHANNELS AND NAMES OF

CONTACIS IN PARIS, SONS, MAGUE. ME OSVIOUSLY HAS NOT BRIEFED

ROMERO

• SUGGEST BONN, MAGUE MERELY LEAVE NAME AND SAY WILL;

SLi, AGAIN TO SEE IF MESSAGE.

4. PRESIDENT'S MAIN CONCERN WILL BE FOR MESSAGES FROM I

XICO IF REPEAT IF ANY SENSITIVE MATTERS LOCALS SONE OF

LITE ACTING CHIEF OF MEXICAN GOUTS WHO CONTACTS OF SCOTT

WIS:: SEND TO HIM BY KUBARX SECURE CHANNEL.

5. LITEMPO/Z, LIELEGANI AND LIERGO ALL AVARE OF CHANNELS

TO PARIS, BONN, THE MAGUE AND WILL USE IF HAVE SUCH MESSAGES.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES.

**REQUESTED FURTHER IDENTIFICATION MATERIAL COULD USE ON PHONE WITH

ANYONE WHO ANSWERS PHONE IN PRESIDENTIAL SUITE.

87 MAR 196.3

GROUP 1'

SECNET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOMI

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

REPACDUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUANU OFFICE IS PROH: 3| TES

---

## Page 65

4-00000

ACTION: C/WH 5

• INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

BI SERINT

C/EE 3, CHE 2, 0/0C 2, S/C 2

SECRET 2613497

PARI INFO BONN DIR MEXI CITE FRAN 7695

RYAAT OOLONG

28 MAR 1963 1N94458

REE DIR 25091 K

DO YOU HAVE ANY RECENT WORD OF ARRIVAL DATE NOW ANTICIPATED

OF LODEZ MATEOS IN BONN, AUD NAME OF HOTEL WHERE HE PLANNING

TO STAY THERE. WE HAVE DATE OF 5 APRIL AND WOULD LIKE TO CONFIRM

THIS IF POSSIBLE.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USEO

**CONCERNED EUROPEAN TRIP OF LOPEX MATEOS.

• " GROUP 1

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-

GRADING AND DEGLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTRER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIRITEO

---

## Page 66

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ACTION: CAN 5°

INFO : DOP, ADDP, C/CI, C/T 2, 3/6 8

SECRET 281493Z

• MEXI DIR CITE HAGU 3494

RYBAT

REF DIR 25991

11 32 19.

SECRET

i:

1N90740

21 MAR 1947

CONFIRMING RECEIPT REF INSTRUCTIONS MAGUE PHONE NUMBER IS

C/S COMMENTS ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DIVOUR USED.

POREQUESTED STERILE PHONE RABER FOR CONTACT FOR ADOLFO LOPEZ MATEAOS.

SECRET

THAN

• Ghoup 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-

GRADINE AND DECLASSIFICATION

DEFICE IS PROHIBITED

---

## Page 67

14-00000

JRIG :..

Dillikald'

1021=0

UNIT

0- EC

EXT

fire?

DATE 20 MAREA 1202

10, BOSUI, PARIS, HAGUE, MELICO CITY INTO: LATA, PRASFURI

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF,

D/00 2

INFO:

DID, ADEP, C/FF 2, C/Wi. 2, C/uM?, S/C

ROUTING

/WH/3

20H63127 030

BORN, PARI, HAGU, HEXI INFO LOND, FRAN

RIBAT OOLONIO

REP DIR 25991 (NOT SENT LOND, FRAM)

CITE DIR

SIS CEY

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORI

26254

1. REBAI REF ALERTS ADDERS TO OUTICAL TISTE TOEIR COUNTRTES BY

ADOLFO LOPEZ, MATEOS, PRUCTIRE CO MEXICO, MITH AND APRIL. ALSO AÑTICKIZES

AFD BETS UP ARRANGEMENTS FOR IDEEZ MER/HERITE LESSINS TAFS RUBARS

CHANELS TO AND FROM FIRE VEXICAN CETICIALE ALD KUBARK MESS.

2Ó FOR CLEAR UNDERSZANDERO ALL COACESURD LA CONMUILCATIONS PROCEDURES,

POLIONIG IS ESIABLISHED.

A. ALL TRAFFIC FROM FIELD (LOPEZ LOCATION) WILL HE ADDIESSED

MEXI INTO DIR; OPIM; RERAI; HIT& PILCE "PAÇA LIPEZ."

B, ALL TRAFTIC TO FELD (LOPEZ LEATICA) WILT, DE AUTNESSED

TO STATION INFO DTR; ORTM; PIRAT; WITS PTO? "PER LOPEZ."

C. CONNUNICATORS WILL. ZFT ALI. IFARDISSICS:

I CIPHER ISXT SHOLD RE REFIVED IR TANSICETOS, 'AMN STILI APPL

3' UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SUOULD RIZA PRRSTBNCIAE UNBO PITE UP OR

DELIVERY TRAFFIC.

DD/P

A GO IC

OC-ED

COOPDINARINO ORIGI

sameng'ading and

austrew.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN IME ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy ito

---

## Page 68

14-00000

ORIG: C. BUSTOSedd

WH/3MEXICO

O INCEX

I NO INDE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

EXT :

594,0

CALL

SMATEL 7263 10 FILE IN CS FILEN

wiN.

BONN PARIS HAOUS MEXICO CITY

.:. FROM, DIRECTOR

CONFI C/WH 5

•INFO, DCI, D/DCI, DOP, ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2,.

C/EE 2, C/VE 2,

p/06t2, s/C

10

BEER RONA PARI HAGU

INFO

OPIM MEXX

1262.

ROUTING

5

19148 53 23

122

sto ca

DEFERRAI

ROUTINE

CITE DIR

25991

B:

i!;

-1077

Try

RY BAT

FOR IMMEDIATE ACTION

REP NEXT 3810 (IN 87887)*

I ADOLPO LOPEZ MATEOS, MEXICAN PRESIDENT, MAKING OFFICIAL VISIT

ADDRESSES COUNTRIES MARCH AND AP: II.

LOPEZ REQUESTED NAMES OF FRIENDS OF COS

MEXT LESS IN ADDRESSNE CITIES WIO COULD CONTACT HIS PRIVATE SECRETARI HUMBERTO

ROMEd (PER) AT EACH PLACE BURIA MESS.

2. LOPEZ HILL HANT TO SEND AND RECEIVE MESSAGES TIROVOR SUBARK COMMO

CALATES TO AND MR09 RICH MEXICAN OFFICIALS AND ALSO EUBAR NIL. II DRES NOT

TRUST HIS OWN FOREIGN SERVICE COMMO.

3. HO AUTBORIZES CONTACI BETWEEN LOPEZ SECRETARI ROMERO AND AUDRESSEE

¡STATIONS TO PICK UP AND DELIVER HESSAGES. ROPSRO SPEAKS GOOD EVOLISH ANTO

STATTON OFFICER MUST USE ATS AND GIVE ROMERO STERILE PHONE NABER OR OTICE

PORE NO DEER TRACKABLE TO SURARK, IDENTIRY SILE AS"ARTEND OF SENOR BLANCO,"

LOE "FRIEND OF TIO",

NAMES WHICH LOFEZ, USRS TO INFER TO COS MEXI. INITIAL CONTACI TO ROMERO CAN BE

MADE BY PHONE OR IN PERSON AFTER IS ARRIVES AND SUBSEQUENT MESTINGS SHOULD

BE NETO USE CONDITIOYS AS SECURE AS GIACGASTANCRS PIRATE, TO ANOID IDENTITIO

COORDINATINO OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER.

GROUP!

Encludes lion automatre

dinnerading and

ASTHENTiCATINE

SECRET

des188510699.00

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER. THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No

---

## Page 69

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE.

SECRET

• UNIT,

EXT

DATE 1.

то :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFg

INFO S

т0

DO INDEX

O NO INDEX

IO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

12-88

ROUTING

5

PAGE 2

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR SENDI

25991

KUBARX PERSOUEL, TO HEXICANS.

4. STATIONS SHOULD USE THESZ ALISSES,

BILL STRATFORD

JOE WITTENBERGER

JOHN WYROFE

5. ALTIOVON ROMERO IS KNOWS TO HAVE HAD FREQUENT AND FRIENDLE CONTACTS

WITH SUCH INTERNATIONAL COMMUNIST PIGURES AS LOMBARDO POLEDANO AND UITH MEXICAN

COMMUNISTS, MEXI CONSIDERS HIM NOT A BAD SECURITY RISK AND HAS PASSED INTELLIGENCE

MATERIAL, FHROUGH HIM POR SOE, TIME..

Wa COMMENT:

END

OF MESSA IS

Pros Adolfo Lopaz Hateos rog nanos of friends of COS in Paris,

Bonn and the Hague who woaid contact tides toot

his private socrotary Humberto Romero (Perez) at sach of these placos

during visit.

RELEASING OFFICER

COOROIMATING OFFICERS

CROUP&

Enciudes train automalie

SECRET

anangrasing and

declass.ncos.ca

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING"

Copy No.

---

## Page 70

14-00000

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT

DATE :.

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO 3

то

O INDEX

2 no mox L

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUING

PAOS 3

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR

25991

COOPDINATIONS

65/3

(онеціаск

C/HH/3

Che

#H/COPS

RICHARD ENING

DDP

3. 0. KING

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING' OFFICERS

CROUP I

Macuded vrom automatid

SECRET

somagradie and

esc'a:s-9-1109

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

jUTHENTICATING

OFFICES

Copy No.

---

## Page 71

4-00000

Van:

•=

CLASSIFICO MESSAGE FE

SASHES

ACTION: C/IN 5 (WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED 1315 /16 MAR/LMG)

INFO : DCI, D/DCI, DOP, ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 2, C/VE 2, S/C 2

SECRET I61GODZ

PRITY DIR CITE MEXI 3810

RYBAT LIENVOY

'16 MAR 130.

IN87887.

REF DIR 25228*

1: PRESIDENT ADOLFO LOPEZ MATEOS REQUESTED ON 16 MARCH NAMES

OF FRIENDS OF COS IN CARIS

BONN AND THE HAGUE

WHO COULD CONTACT HIS PRIVATE SECRETARY HUMBERTO ROMERO (PEREZ)

AT EACH OF THESE PLACES DURING VISIT:

2. PRESIDENT GANTS THIS CHANNEL SO THAT LIERGO, LITEMPO/2,

LIELEGANT AND CURTIS CAN SEND HIM SECURELY" ANY MESSAGE THEY

CONSIDER OF INTEREST: SNOTES PRESIDENT REITERATED THAT HE DOES

NOT TRUST HIS OWN FOREIGN SERVICE CHANNEL AND SAID IS AFRAID OF

HIS COMMUNICATION LINKS FOR VERY SENSITIVE INFORMATION'S

3. REALIZE THIS DIFFICULT REQUEST MAKE OF HAS BUT WOULD

APPRECIATE SERIOUS CONSIDERATION IN VIEY OF PRESENT AND FUTURE

RELATIONSHIP.

4O PERSONS CONTACTING ROMERO COULD USE "FRIEND OF TIO" OR

"FRIEND OF SENOR BLANCO- SINCE PRESIDENT FREQUENTLY REFERS PO CURTIS M

AS "TIO" AND AS "SENOR BLANCO" OF " BLANCO DIPLOMACIA."

S. APPRECIATE EARLY REPLY.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: # Headquarters forwarded bziefing material for LITENSOR(5)

European trip which the Mexico City station may select, edit and translate the

material it considers most appropriate.

GROUP 1

ERADINED

REPROOUCTIOV SY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

-

---

## Page 72

ACTIONA CÄNH. 560OPY ISSUED TO WA AT 1415, 15 MAR LI)

INFO/

: ADDP, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2

SECRET ISITIAZ

!

PRITY DIR CITE MEXI 3739

RYBAT BEDOX

1 5 M49 1963

IN87153

!

REF A. DIR 24811

B. HMMW-11374

: 1' STATION RECD S/C ATTCH TO REF B 13 MAR 6S IN POUCH NUMBER

1854. NO STATION RECORD RECEIPT OF COVERING DISPATCH:

¿ 20 PLEASE SUMMARIZE, CONTENT OF REF B AND CABLE SOONEST TO

STATION.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USED.

.

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION •

REPASDUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUME OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

---

## Page 73

4-00000

ORIG :

To she.

UNIT: 18/3/Mi00

EXT : 5940

DATE : 15 MARCH 1953

10 : MEXTO CITX

FROM: DIRECTOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECASS

ROUTING

15 MAR 53 22

CONF:

C/WH 5

ROUTINE

INFO:

DDP, ADOP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/F1 2, 6/515 5, S/C

10. PRIFY HEXT

INFO

RYBAT ASHE LITENSOR

REFS: A. EMINZ-11374*

B. MEXT 3789 (IN 87153)**

CITE DIR

PRIORITY

25228

1. REF A POOCHED BY ERROR II MAR. SUNMARY AS FOLLO

A. MATERIAIS PREPARED BY RUMONK AND SUWOLF. TO EXPEDITS POUCHINO

PQS DEFERS FURTHER EDITINO TO MEXT. MEXT NAY SELECT, EDIT AND TRANSLATE

MATERIAL IT CONSIDERS MOST APPROPRIAtE.

B. ATT A IS LIST OF REFS TO PERTINSVI ARTICLES IN SECIFIC ISSUES

CURRENT INTEL WEEKIY SUMMARIES.

C. ATT B CONTAINS KUWOLF PREPARED MATERIALS NOT SENT MEXI EXCEPT

CUBA ISM. THESS MAX HE USED TO PROMOTES COTORE POSITION ON CRASON MARKES,

BERLIN PROBLEM, CUBA, EXC.

D. ATT C CA-PILED BY KUMONK. INCLUDES BIO SKETCHES ON OTTIGIALS

FACT COUNTIC WITHE WHOM ITTENSOR WILL, FROBARLY MEET DURITO TRIP. HEXI

MAY NOT PASS BIO INFO THROUGH WICH LINE IS DRAWN.

LIENVO

END ON RESSAGES

*Portarded LATElISOR BRIANINO MATERIALS

J. C. KING

RELEASINGOSFICOS

Excluded learn autonatte

donngiadias and

SECRET

iC/104 BENTICATIMO

doclassinication

OFFICER

REPPODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROHIBITED.

Copy No.

542

---

## Page 74

4-00000

C. BuSTOS rod

UNIT:

NH/3/15.0000

EXT!

5940

DATE, 1I MARAY 1953.

TO : MAXICO OTTY

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONF:

C/WH 5

INFO ;

ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, S/C

TO

MIST

INFO

RYBAT INTENSOR

S8571 XX 3575 (IN 75331)*

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SICBET

ROUTING

TTS FAR 53 CJ

468

De 342. C54

R POUTINE

CITE DIR

24990

END OF HESSAGE

MI COMET, "LIENsOR has asked for brloring papore on trip.

gI/00/1"1 F. HUGHES (IN DRAFT)

0.C.

SINO

BRIRASINO ORDICEN

COOROINATIMO ORRIERR

nobodor tracs arteme

SBCRIP

foebrstication

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

.......

lord, d

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

Copy No.

---

## Page 75

14-00000

UNit.

CAT

5..n

C4TE: 13 20÷0H 1903

702

TO '¡TITICO CITY

FIOM, DIRECTOR

CONFI

e piri 5

CEFESSED

ROUTINE

INIO:

fatt

T0 1 :93I

INFO

CITE DIR

PRIORITI

24811

RIZAT EEDÖX

ROP:: A. ECNi-223711

В. :0N7 371.3 (M9002207

1. LITONSOR EPMOCINO PAPERS POISIDO ROF A 3MIR. EN j1IL3.

2. FOIL SUCURIZES BACHERORO NE FOLICE IL RIPICIE FLW:

1. NIE FOLISH PROPOSAL FER LENIRLE EUROPEL MUGIEU-CIE RO'S ILTRCDUCED

AT 2 002 57 SEGSION DE UN USAERN, ASCEICIY EX FOLISH PERCIO MI ISTER, ARAN

MATICII. ACTING IS SPORESAN FRE FOLISH COPRITIT LE FORIJIAIED PROPOSAL:

SICULD LASE AND WEST DEFIGLIY ASSIE DO BALI CH PRODUCTIC AND STORICO TCLEA?

IIIFOIS 0: TICIE TELETORIES, PELO LOULO SEULANIEOUSIY ITICATON DENTICAL EAS

0:: IER PERIORE. RAPACIO DID INT ITICI CORSROGIOLADEA, SUT IAD OS

OZICHOSIDVAE UI DELEGATION, SPELERO MOTER FARICIO, SEPPORTER FRUPOSAI.

IOD. EISI GOSLAIS SUSSEGUENRIN MEDY EIONED DIS MOROSAL.

B. RAFACIT'S PROPOSÁI ESTRUILE CISALO NO CONCEREO LIT STIET

•LEIDERS PRIOR TO INTRODUCTION, ESSOCH PREPALE PERORIO CS FINESNI

ROPROTIRULE LO SOVISE PRESS STRABITO ASESEITO NODEO ES TELECISO BE DECELE

BEIRASINO OFFICER

Exclutad (07 011701a6

Sidagia: às and

1-10-,

REPIODUCTION SY OTHE TRAS TE ESUING OFFICE IS FRO-ISITED.

•UTHENTICAS

---

## Page 76

14-00000

ORA.

UNIT 1

EXT S

DATE:

то .

FROM:

• COMEs

INtO s

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRST

8-00

ROUTING

DIRECTOR

PACES 2

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR

24824311

OF SUROPS, WOUID PACILITATE AGPREMENT ON DISARMAMENT AND CESSATION NUCIZAR

TESTS, AND WOULD "HISIP IMPROVE RELATIONS AND BRINO CLOSER TOGETHER" THE THO

DERHAN STATES.

C. THE PROPOSAI WAS FORMALIZED IN 9 DEC 57 POLISH GOVERNIENT

MEHORANDIM, FRESENTED SI RAPACKI TO US, BRITISH, AND FRENCH AIRASSADORS INI

HARSAW. SOVIET PREMIER BULKANIN PROMPTLY ENDORSED PROPOSAL IN SERIES OF

ISTIERS TO READS OF GOVERNMENTS THROVQHOUY THIE HORID

D.: IN 1958 RAPACKI MODIFIED HIS PIAN, ALIEGEDIY TO MARE IT HOPE

PALATABLE TO HESTER POWERS. NEW VERSION PUBLISHED NOY 58, CALLED FOR =

TWO-STAGE PROGRAM Ii WALCH: (1) CURRENT NUCILAR STOCKPILES AND BASES WOUID

BE PROCEN AND PRODUCTION OF NUCLEAR ISAPONS BANIED IN POLAND, CZECHOSLOVAKTA,

RAST AHD WEST GERANI, AND (2) EXISTINO NUCLEAR SFOCKPILES AND WEAPONS WOCID

BE ELINATED AS PART OF CINERAL DISAPIAVENT ACHESMENT FOR THE FOUR-SATIO:

AREA. REVISED VERSIC AISO GATUE FOR "AIR AND ORCINT CCHTROI" WITH NATO

AND WARSA PACT COUNTRIES PARTICIPATINO IN CONTROL SYSTEM.

B. FOLISH IRADERS HAVE SINCE 1957 PHESSED FOR FORMAL AGREEHENT ON

RAPACKI PIAN. SHORTLY AFTER OPENING OF GENSVA DISARMAMENT CONFETENCE POLISS

RELEASINO OFFICER

SOONOINATINO DIRICES

SOUP 1

donag eding and

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICAT MA

Copy No.

-

---

## Page 77

14-00000

ORIO,

UNIT:

EXT

DATE :

то:

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF,

INFO,

CLASSIFIFD MESSAGE

SRORE.T

ROÜTING

PAGE 3

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR

24811

DELEGATION SUBMITTED MIMO URGING CREATION NOCLEAR-FRIE ZONE IN CENTRAL

SUROPE. MEMO BASICALLY FOLIONS LINES OF FORMER PROPOSAIS RAPACKI PIAN.

SOVIST DELEGATION IS CURRENTLY UROINO GENEVA DISARMAMENT CONFERENCIE TAKS UP

GHESTICH NUCLEAR-FREE ZONES IN VARIOUS AREAS OF. HORID.

F. SINCE RAPACKE PLAN INTREDUCED HAS HAD STRONO SUPPORI FROM MOSCOW.

SOVIETS HAVE EVEN URGEN EXTENDINO ZONE TO INCLUDE BALFIC AND BALKAN COUNTRIES,

AU SEET TRADERS ON OUSED VERY PROPOSAL AS MEANS SONATINO CERMAN POWER

IN CONTRAL EUROPE ONE OF MOSCOW'S MAJOR FORSION POLICI OSUSCTIVES.

O. IS STRONGLI OPPOSES RAPACKI PLAN, VIEWING IT AS BLOC DEVIGE TO

ASUTRALIZE GERMANT, DEEPEN AND EVEN PERPETUATS DIVISIUN DE GERMANY, AND TO

SECURE DE FACTO RECOQNITION OF EAST GERMANY. IMPLAMENZATION OF PROPOSAL

LOVID AISO BE MILITARILY DISADVANTACSOUS TO KEST. US HILITART POHER IN!

EUROPE HOULD BE DIMINISHED WITHOUT A CORCURRENT DSCREASE OF SOVIET STRENGTH.

IT HOULD WEAKEN NATO.

F. WEST GENMAN GOVERNMENT ALSO VIDUROUSLI PROSES TO MILIT FLAY, AU

ALL SUCH "DISENGAGEMENT" PLANS IN CENTRAL EUROPE FOR SAMS REASONS. BONN

AISO CONSILERS SUCH PROPOSAIS AS SINISTER AND SUBTLY INTIHIRATORY TO LEST

ESPYANS, WHO DO NOT CHOOSE, BE PRAJE LAZILAR LE PEST EVENT OBJECTS, AND

techniod tara 1o05ae0

ING OFFICER

SECRET

RONJIRAITICATONS

AUTHENTECATINS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

• Copy il

---

## Page 78

4-00000

ORG:

N. JUDITHS

UNIT,

EXT I

DATE ,

10.

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONfI

INFO,

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

PACT. L

INFO

CITE DIR

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

24811

7"49

pr.om.o

... HEO DETECT IN SUCH SCHEMES A CREATION OF CONDITIONS FOR TREIR EVENTUAL

COMMUNIZATION.

I. PUBLIC ENDORSEMENT OF RAPACKI PLAN BY MEXICAN PRESIDENT WGUID

MARK FIRST SUCH SPECIFIC APPROVAL BY GOVERNMENT ISADER OUTSIDE SOVIET ELOC

HIS ENDORSEMENT WULD BE WIDELY FROPAGANDIZED BY POLES ANI SOVIETS AND

COUID SET PRECEDENT FOR THE TO SECURE SUCH APPROVAL BY OTHER NUNBIOS IBADERS.

EXD OF. HESSAGR

C/S COMMENT: *REQUESTED INCLUDE POINTS THAT COULD BE MADE BY COS TO DISSUADE

LITENSOR FROM POSSIBLE PUBLIC BACKING OF RAPACK! FLAN DURING HIS FORTHCSMING

LT/P

WHO...

I've the bout

J.C. KING

RELEASINO ORFICER

COOROINALIMO OPPIERES

BROUP I

Enclosed tron sataraatta

doongrading and

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

JOHN M. WRITTEN

C/WH/3

AUTHENTICATITE

OFFICER

Copy tio.

---

## Page 79

4-00000

1 Teen Care terr

Mile dor dirense there in Mart?

The Rapacki Plan

1.

The Polish proposal for a Central European

nuclear-free zone was introduced at the 2 October 1957

session of the UN General Assembly

by the Polish Foreign

Minister, Adam

rapackl.

Acting as spokesman for the

Polish Government

both east endent derman ate to no the poo

Poland

storage of nuclear weapons on their territories,

Bould

simultaneously introduce an identical ban on

her territory.

Rapacki did not mention Czechoslovakia,

but the head

of the Czechoslovak UN delegation, speaking

after Rapacki, supported his proposal, declaring that his

country would Join the agreement,

extending the

ban over

her

territors,

too.

The East Germans subsequently warols

endorsed the

proposal.

Rapacki's proposal

had obviously been cleared and

coordinated with Soviet leaders prior to its introduction.

Noscow promptly reported the proposal approvingly and the

Soviet press stressed that such an agreement would he wel-

comed by the peoples of Europe,

would facilitate agreement

on disarmament and cessation of nuclear tests, and

"help improve relations and bring closer together" the two

German states.

The proposal was fornalized in a 9 December 1957

government memorandum, which was presented by Rapacki

to the US,

British, and French ambassadors in Yarsaw.

then Soviet Premier,

Bulganin, promptly endorsed the pro-

in a sertes of letters to heads of governments through-

out the world.

In 1958 Rapacki modified his plan, alleyedly to make

it more palatable to the lestern powers.

of the plan, published in Novemher 195s, called

for a tro-

in which:

(1) current nuclear stockpiles

be banned in Poland.

Czechoslovakia, East and lest Germany,

and (2) existing nuclear stockpiles

and weapons would be

---

## Page 80

4-00000

eliminated as a part of a general disarmament agreement

for the four-nation area.

The revised version of the

plan also called for "alr and ground control' with NATO

and Warsaw

Pact countries participating in the control

system.

Polish leaders have since 1957 pressed for a formal

agreement on the Rapacki plan.

Shortly alter the opening

of the Geneva disarmament conference in March 1962, the

Polish delegation submitted a memorandum urging creation

of a nuclenr-free zone in Central Europe.

The memorandum

basically follows the lines of the former proposals of the

Rapacki plan.

The Soviet delegation is currently urging

that the Geneva disarmament conference take up the question

of nuclear-free zones in various areas of the world.

6. Since the Rapacki plan

was introduced, it has had

support from Moscow.

The Soviets have

even urged

extending the zone to include Baltic and Balkan countries.

Soviet leaders undoubtedly view the proposal as a means of

elimtnating German power in Central Europe--one of lioscow's

major foreign policy objectives.

The US strongly opposes the Rapacki plan, viewing

it as a Bloc device to

neutralize Germany, to deepen

even perpetuate the division of Germany implementation of the

de facto recognition of East Germany.

proposal would also be militarily disadvantageous

US military power in Europe would be diminished with-

out a concurrent decrease of Soviet strength.

weaken NATO.

The West German governnent is

also vigorously op-

posed to the Rapacki plan and all such 'disengagement" plans

In Central Europe for the same reasons.

such proposals as sinister and subtly intimidatory to the

West Germans, who do not choose to be dealt with as if they

vere inert objects,

and who detect in such schemes a creation

of conditions for their eventual communization.

Public endorsement of the Rapacki plan by the Mexican

president would mark the first such specieic approvni bi a

government leader outside the Soviet doc.

be widely propagandized bj the Poles and the Soviets

and could set a

precedent for them to secure such approval

by

other nonbloc lenders.

---

## Page 81

ICTION:

Nro:

CAH 5 MIH COPY SLOTTED AT 1815 12 MAR 63 BP).

ADOP, C/CI, G/FU 2, C/EE 9, S/C 2

SECRET 122213Z

PRITY DIR CITE MEXI 37A3

RYBAT BEDOX

18 MAR 1963

#lN84727

RET MEXI 3575 (W250S1)

SUGGEST INCLUDE IN MATERIAL REQUESTED REF POINTS THAT CAN 8S

MADE BY COS TO DISSUADE LITENSOR FROM POSSIBLE PUBLIC BACKING OF

RAPASKI PLAN DURING HIS FORTHCOMING TRIP POLAND. PARTICULARLY WISH

PRESS THIS POINT SINCE / ITENSOR, WHO ANXIOUS BE RECIPIENT NOBEL PEACE

PRIZE, MIGHT OTHERVISE BE TEMPTED NEACT FAVORABLY TO SUCH A PROPOSAL:

NW.: OLISH SEUM JUST MADE PUBLIC DECLARATION IN FAVOR MEXICOS

'AIMS FOR DISARMAMENT:

• 2. IF ABOVE MATERIAL CANNOT BE POUCHED IN TIME MEET 1S MARCH

DEADLINE PLS CABLE NIGHLIGHIS AND POUCH REST.

**.

S. LITENSOR ON 11 MARCH EXPRESSED ABAIN HIS INTEREST IN BRIEFINGS.

REQUEST ETA MATERIALS REQUESTED REF.

SECRET

• C/S COMMENT: *LITENSOR HAS ÁSKED VIA LIELEGANT FOR BRIEFING PAPERS KUBARK

CAN GIVE ON FRANCE, YUGOSLAVIA AND POLAND.

K

REPROUETION DY OTER PANE ORS GEE PROMOTED "

FROM AUTOMATIC DONNIO

aRNOIDiO S SECLASHIDICATION.

---

## Page 82

GLAIS101+

DISPATCH

SRORE

: Chief of Station, Mexico Clty

---

X

PANCESSIMi

I RUNE AN INTEN

MARRIERA

C44 K. TX 19177175)

INFO

FROM

: Cilef, RH Division

SUBJECT

KUWOLF/LITINSOR Briefing Materials

ACTION REQUIRED

RUTtRENCES

ACT: As required.

REF:

MEXI 3575

DIB 21965

1.

Headquarters is sending herewith asterials which

KUMONK and KUlOLE stafis have prepared for a briefing of LITANSOR

on countries he will soon viait.

In order to expedito the

pouching of these materials we are not taking time to edit then

into a finished product at Headquarters.

materials and references than will be necessary for this brieflug.

The Station may select, adit and translate the inforaation 18

considers most appropriate.

Attachuent A.

This 1s a liat of references to portinent

articles in specific issues of the •Current Intelligence Weekly

Sumnarles. "

3.

Attachnent B.

With the exception of the itea on Cuba,

these KUWOLF-prepared

materials vore not sent to Station Maxico

They may be used to promote the ODYOKk position on the

Common Nariset, the Berlin problem, Cuba ete.

4.

Attachment C.

KUMONK compiled these naterials.

They

include a current doscription of the altuation in each country

Involved and blographic sketches on many of the officials with

whom LITENSOR will probably meet during his trip.

The biographic

has boen takan from KUBARK and ODACID files.

The

• Station should not pass any biographic information through which

a line has been drawn on those attachments.

END OF DISPATCH

Removed from Projoct Hasidest

Attachments:

A. List of References, H/W

B. KUNOLF-Prepared Material, H/W

C. KUHONK compilled material, H/W

CS Class:1586101: 50-4-7062

3OB#

23-179/21

80x: 22 Pold: X

DATE TYPED

Distribution:

O81 = COS, MEXICO TO

E/ATTS. A, B,C:

7 Mar.

63

DISPATCH SYMAN dED NUMDER

$ MS

HEADQUARTERS FILE NURSER

LLASSIILATINN

SECR

50-6-75/8

WH/3/Mex

Judkins

TYPIST

ds

COORDINATING

5910

1 - Chrono

OFFICE SYMBOL

PAlE

OFFRISS NAME

CA/PROP

7

Mar 63

by phone

OCI/SIDO

17

Mar° 63

]by phone

FI/INT/IB

7 Mar

63

#H/CA/ PROP

7 Mar

83

by phone

Chamberlain-

R.

RELEASING

OFFICE SYMUOL-

C/HI/D

J.

C.

King

(40,

USE PREVIOUS I EATH THEY DE UST

DISPATCH

---

## Page 83

14-00000

1097317

1and...ta.

RET

Chief, wH Division

bt115//1975

Chief, HONOLD

_. per GSH 43-13

Chief of Statson, Mexico Carline

SENACT

LIENVOY/Forwarding of Trainee Evaluation

diós Felto Silvisios

ACTION REQUIRED: For Your Information

XX

¡CAS LUNGI INOLAIMG

I MICRONIM

1..

Forwarded as a split transmission are copies of the

Evaluation of Trainces preparod by Lee R. MYLECHRAINE for

passage to LIRAMA and LITEMPO 8.

In the Line a Lacky decorat was translated into son passage.

KABIDGER

hereal 1res 59 5076. 23/2

3018 #

Hillard (Curts,

illard C. CURTIS

KALI

1=:.20168 13

Attachsont (Via Split Transmission) :

Evaluation of Trainees Report

1 - left Side, h/w

2 - Right Side, u.s.c.

Distribution:

C/THD,

w/atts

- C/WOOLD, w/atts

=7EE0 69

HMALA-36137

SECRET

12 February

1969

50-6-75/2

---

## Page 84

14-00000

.."

.":.=.

'ite:

.....•

..Ün

2int ta

.i.

Mimandáthidoh

of Cdiirie:

wo aon i.

TIH!T:

jid däi $2-18

larriade Poaráciciadde. ...

Activitivni

sioo:"?""

2.

Diäd oi Coniso

ü. Louind0n

of Traidilig

: jü jillady - 7iciwry siand

C.1i0 Frinioco 2225

Loià, Z00 7

3, 5H0. 3. г02.

1. Jimos oi Tiainees

20.

od6 aão Conza20%, di. Cos, iexacaadxmy,

2. Iconardo iCiEl y icpub, Ago 23.

3.

2so S3o Girats coiina, aoeada, coricaa dird,

Foris Lébilo Bainci, DoS, i50 iù.

5.

wavicr micanl mosios, dis, dgü iù.

Esteban Guzid Saccidio, doS, Age

7. 2Ge 5200 Sumanas i20i, Capütai, diedaciain d

Ago So oues Ciidz, Captaaa, dexicis doay,

9 Roaão Aio 00 26 iorundoz, üdow dr

5.

Evaiunciod of Prainoos:

noid iciin

dxcrcises

cordndredst

ROCAUSO OÈ CALiN DLCViOUS

expccidnce ii. .i

..'oi,

!:

.^ ",-"

50.6-75/2

M/bITT.OIA D/HTFORE HAN-3443)

-- =

---

## Page 85

4-00000

.....

-? -

mmmmaatemmmmen, mnbdctando

an" do cenconice mio Quido cedodes an siue cenddir

jaoddrd driirii.

is celor dideáo di

-iood md Nedd COCited

Morrdi iiddarasäg Vaid dãb dcnndnddo of

toid ati miid

uvery cs.dit ei iari dciit io ldtà

ccrcuicos

¿chörei

Liio cit dxporionos

tn socurdry terr.

deanicnlilcrü, nsdod, dnccaracivo

innascdidis,

¿drdendeo, dno it as tse iveicdà's

mns thico mroibicdly lave

e s cananee do kost tlt prse

koon dindc uncctrinndhnd of

cio cypicnà missioù dù à incibind sceuricy sorrioo, dnd

mncy know iolà

sechiity scivick sicild oo abour 1is

and nctiritios.

1haro - Subdocd o a caocer Hexicah diny oiri-

exncrirred in imduiliiniee

cos and has dad do Piroumone he eouece ho was punctual,

úcmmintrauod a lcon intcresü in ine word, and 200% an

aciivo part in dia classioon dascussiooo aod siicet

CáCicisOS.

dd aopesd,

thre in lis ciscussiois

jolion' wnos cenbers le vas usiniiy guite exarioi-

cicó mnü axdarimüive Wish mrhü 22212212 Gndienie iciid

1mnaalty On das Dude to goü dlonk 7075

Kerkcis ad did waix.

vancndtk déend,

2200v2, TESDeReC LAiao

hao a ciioly dood mocdacddddo dod oi cie illions dccisicä

e! A sacucdod sorvado, ai.

Jo cndeeradt Driicipiir

invoivod in socurily servico vork.

ccdidano dio bid iinireun,

20026 y100d -iln iniy cavidinn in iirdriidoo

au ropesas do lavo ec loist tore foae eno oe tn

iriddociddicoil.

•ddd doa Mprdenddd àà

criitrDomo darClondd.i.

e'cacionaly ao did dost di thr ocinis

iro dilid durie dours,m

'rcdiio

Com timo io tano nld geacrnlly dáci d row.

.i usorrinds diriioi oud by tha tarain.

ie apiror..

....i

disoid: 0i

•id doivo

dbrrrofi.dadas 0.18011

o.srádiy 109 00.'.!1..

dedeoivo dgvcrldã cind doidlod ded itrdii.

tr.. c:d'00.

10.c.00rd in hisi

rlniiona aid conbocraidoir w.i.

m.... de.

¿tto wlrro aovor doled tly ticddano.

-t.''.

cmond dacoiad 2o Deo ho Ca"

iiiciei .oi:

:."'".i"

•. .i...

ii!e:..

23S2 4605229 "13

ieo coddd de

lioiy ioee .ddeoe ddr

i'es valicdo woik

a croio a ood idoiä

¿cianakon.

.../

---

## Page 86

14-00000

1..

020-222221918d

condonesor

works of

activoly

sluis and

irrectro.

we had that companion to

expirises

i was along

....л.

ril close derried when

......

mad toddie did

схорлолої

cabaccas,

in manti

ironst di

Cello detected:,

Operator.

supervise alacis in such a lag as do case idea

exorcinos vie nois Dieprica,

midicatind time die not only

1patiod dron did crissiood icadild and discussion it tide

3.

Sheilao - sabioce born do podded do avoide

lako the glades, die tire diligio

it is bolidlini

do the this.

id can direct teres lie...

i did, anonmand the occasions mice in

win an Cindi

5.

Noticis.

His marriess co tie organicalion, an is kerioved

1ali decond on

.. ca Mads

Mmend da decussions and in cloth corders

soda c0 cave mode consideration to cho soondiry dai.

volved in paramid accions

chan did did

sim'is.

clinspoon more remini

moralion and conceo di surveillance derivation.

none to the sponsor.

It is believed that to wris

..:V.•

caroll considerarion to diy proposed accidiond mada.y

mon a security point or view berore creme or ...

involved.

His kirton excrcises were vei.

---

## Page 87

cert tha consciencidio young to.

tar youngst see the long media iss

race derber Good deal Dolphind, did

Card His lorid

in tripion.

martin:c.

laccopis

¿need dire

crimeo dos aid sold with dad foldow noriers.

ü.

22220135

it siouid do dairo, air issu

on a mihor sori ouscovation perioi; clicy doid in cou-

miered decoratly.

side di the card, somesinis

less cano will madh lamine then do..!.

To win apacinted Lie copolanily 1d Maria 100ddo 10

And tral di tell

nail makd&

te carrier.

accid that will tine and xbodice

unaire contrition to did work

redemachine lois

rote

ii

..J

!...

dude Grillino

mood Inten

it

..i.

is mercid

SOPREY 1002%

Rave d

whis

made section

scalia s

ibicrore in dinid...

chai cespoisidab.iy.

Swind

niculors

MinoArd magic

Just

acciricies.

tied appatore incorests,

commotos madd dix

gäveh

sectio:

cnici

Concurani

11:

exticist

scotion Chict in

drougs, winni

chance deo dande

based on rescions antid

to surrest that dey sidid dri

novo proposed ascinioris.

do a de valise wishes to dias ade coat

Me cocoonation and sapport dirent mir

tre cooperation and sidoris

incendenced

.../

---

## Page 88

14-00000

- 5

Loney

2360206046 666192

aid dait.

io dorich

a5 dio Ladd Dagas Opereddong,

tacie copadidiy.

cour works

io improve

_..

-

---

## Page 89

14-00000

SECRET

in act time

Chièf, Wil Division

ILLENSINT

xX

Chief, WONOLD

per 658-43-43

CAY JUDGI LADiXING

ROM

Chief of Station, Mexico CAtr

~"LIENVOY/Completion of Training Report (Training Cryptonym-DAVALILLO›

ACTION REQUIRED: For Your Information

- REFERENCE

: DIRECTOR-65355, 12 January 1969

As indicated in Reference and other communications, a

training request was made by the Station and approved by Headquarters,

to train a group under the LIENVOY

Project to follow up on leads

produced by the joint LIENVOY operation and presumably other

Mexican Government unilateral sources.

Lee R. MYLECHRAINE, WOMOLD

instructor who was assigned to the Mexico City Station until

8 July 1968,

was selected as the instructor.

MYLECHRAINE arrived

in Mexico City on 9 January 1969:

the training began on 13 January

and ended

10 February 1969.

The training was conducted at a

training site,

Mexico City, provided by LIENVOY-2 and LIELEGANT; the building

which the training site apartment is located is owned by LIELEGANT,

and the latter and

LIENVOY-2 have their offices there.

upon completion of the training,

will use the apartment in which

the training was conducted for

their offices.

Removed froz Projoct

KIBADGER

08453199194 56-6-7512

•Box: 25 Bold: I

Att: 19.0*:

Continued.....

Distribution:

C2- C/KUD,

via split. transmission,

marriet

2 - C/HONOLD, via

split transmission, via,

HMMLA - 36431

SECRET

¡DAit

12 February 1969

¡FE. ThE S091S62

150-6-75/2

---

## Page 90

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

LASSIPILATON

SECRET

_ RIB:T

DINATEN SIMON AND AUNDER

HINNA- 36131

2.

The LIENVOYs had originally requested that five (5) o

their

men be trained.

von arrival in Mexico City an

just prior to the scheduled beginning of the training they

requested that they be permitted to add one man and that two men

be

included in the

class from the Direccion Federal de Seguridad

(DFS.) .

In the latter case. they submitted three names but said

that only two of the three

would be expected to attend the class.

is it turned out all thre of the latter group turned up, thus

bringing the class to nine

(9) students;

five (5) Army officers

one civilian from

the LIEsloY group,

and the three DFS men.

Following is a list of the trainees:

(1) Felix LOZANO Rangel. DES,

(2)

(3)

(1)

(5)

(6)

Army, age 16.

Mariano CHANTRES Molina, Captain, Mexican

(7)

Army, age 39.

Ladislao SALINAS Alor, Captain, Mexican

Army, age 31.

(S)

(9)

Jorge MARGAIN Ortiz, Captain, Mexican

Army, age 29.

Rogelio Rafael GARZA Hernandez, Lieutenant,

Mexican Army, age 26.

The training objective of the program was to familiarize

trainees with the basic tradecraft principles and techniques

involved in the conduct of clandestine activities, with primary

emphasis on the work and activities of security services.

largely tutorial in nature, numerous exercises were conducted in

Vexico City,

which will becaxplained

Inter in this dispatch, to further familiarize the trainees with the

techniques involved in surveillance, counter-surveillance, personal

meetings, daddrops, interrogation, and investigation.

The course

discussion

and reading material

on opposition to clandestine

activities.

organization and functions of a security service.

personal, physical and organization security; cover, concealment

and compartmentation, as well as the basic operational skills of

description.

surveillance, and elicitation

and interviewing.

Considerable

time was spent

on reporting and

clandestine communications, us well as on agent acquisition and

With the agreement of LITEMPO-12 who said verbally that

he had consulted with LITE!PO) and LIENVOY-2, the three DES

trainees detained Hector SENTIES Rodriguez; * Interrogatien.

is known to have

had clandestine contset with the Sovicts,

was detained on the street near his home

on the early morning of

1 Fehruary 1909 and interrogated throughuut the day at a motel,

the Palo Alto, located at Ka l4 on the Mexico City-Tolucahighway.

The other six

(5) trainees were able to overhear the entire inter-

rogation but did not actually take part for security reasons.

did not see

SENTIES, nor did the latter see them.

In line with

the discussions and reading material, this live interrogation was of

great value to them.

on 3 February 1969 LIENVOY-2 passe

long to MYLECHRAINE a 500d lead concerning Carlos PEREL Aguirre

lexican who also has contact with the Soviets and Cubans.

infortunatels, only one-half day could be spent on investigating

•CLASSIFICATION

PAGENO

53a

WEEPEST DOGATITIDN

CONTINULO

---

## Page 91

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

RYBAT

ANU NUMBER

HNMA-3G431

this lead, but even this was of value to the trainees.

One trainee

was required to mako a pretext tolephone call, another team of two

made a noighborhood chock, and the remainder were divided into teams

to check with Transito, the Ministry of Defense, the Social Security

Institute and tho Metropolitan Police. Except for the last team,

all picked up some information of value, and the information and

its

significance in torms of the projected investigation of PEREZ

waS

discussed with them.

The performance of the class as a whole was remarkably

good.

S'tho three D'S men, because of their previous training and

experience, were ablo to absorb and understand the lectures and

reading material much

more quickly than the others. None of the

others had any provious training or experience in intelligence or

security work..

However, they were keenly interested, actively

participated in classroom discussions and field exercises, and all

prepared their witten work in an

The instructor

reviewed all written work with them, as woll as plans fur meetings,

etc.,

and this proved most helpful.

Somewhat unusual for Latins,

all

students were punctual; there were some very small and unimpor-

tant dolays, but for the most part these were due to the exceedingly

difficult traffic situation

in Mexico City or to other roasons

apparently beyond

their control.

No student was absent from classes

during

the entire training period, and no student was Inte for

more than 45 minutes or an hour.

6.

In summary; the instructor and the Station feel that the

training objoctive

was

accomplished, and that, the triinees,

although

not yot experlenced

operators; have a sufficient enough understanding

of the bisic

tradecraft principles and techniques to permit them to

begin operations.

They are all intelligent

and alert men,

and

except for LOPEZ y LOPEZ all have an Army background.

CHANTRES 1s

quite imaginativo and icsourcoful, but. also quite cautious and

concerned about the possibility of flaps and corpromises.

He gets

along woll with all his fellow workers,

and undoubtedly has real

Icadership qualities.

TREJO is somewhat talkative,

opinionated and

argumentative, and may have trouble supervising others, but he,

too,

demonstrated considerablo imagination and icsourcefulness.

GARZA, the youngest of thu Army group, appeared to be the most pro-

American, is vory

imaginative, and possesses considerable drive and

energy.

On

one occasion he had the instructor out to lunch at his

home,

where he lives with his wife (they have no children).

on numerous occasions about his many (almost annual)

where his wife has a numbor of close

relatives.

GARZA, It 15 bolieved,

would probably be the most

susceptible to development and possible recruitment of the group.

7.

Except for the remarks in paragraph 6 above, no individual

assessment will bo

forwarded herewith.

The instructor has prepared

a memorandum on each

including the DFS group, setting forth

his

observations and opinions,

as well as any information he was

able to

obtain on the trainees.

8. MYLECHRAINE used the name

"Sr. Tomas" with the trainees;

they did not learn his true name, nor were they

aware where he was living in Mexico City.

Likewise, they are not

aware that he has served previously in Mexico.

There were no

incidents involving security during the training period, and no

incidents or events that should be reported.

CURTIS

• ORN

3 5я

101

53g

USE PALLUS TITION

SECRET

RYBAT

TENGEND-

THREE

-initiatED

---

## Page 92

4-00000

ADIRICECORY

эт -

AT -

46-8

SECRET

TO:AL COET

coor

1257 1343 nons

• ex-ameri

HEPRODUCT CO OF THIS COET PECH BITED

INCEN

DESERS T-250

к-нет то чие 0r per 65X 43-43. ORAsCHD

PILE RIO CRET TO

OUTINE AND OR INITIS

0x8990r 08.0

4Е5-

MEXI

SECRET DOZOSE MAY 69 CITE MEXICO CITY 0378 CLANGDON ACTING)

DIRECIOR

POCERE WOÁCRE LIENVOY LIRAMA

A55 : HMMA 10573, 8 APRIL 19691

1. ON DO MAY GENERAL LUIS (GUTIERREZ) OROPEZA, JEFE

DEL ESTADO ANYUN FRESIDENCIAL, AGAIN REQUESTED THAT ARRANGE-

MENIS BE MADE TO REPLENSIM TRAINING MATERIALS PROVIDED PER

LOGISTICS SISO. DRIGINAL REQUESI REPORIED IN MARA 2 (8) OF

REFERENCE.

2. GUIIERSEL GROPEZA INDICATED THAT REFLACEMENTS

COLED BE BICUONI INTO MEXICO CITY WITH SAME ASSURANCES AS

WHEN OSIGIAN SHIPMENTS ARRIVED.

3. PLS ADVISE.

1. FILE: 50-5-75:2

SECRET

Removed fros Prole!

KABADLER

selassifleation: 0d 6-75%

09 7 23-17341

Bax: 122

Fold: +

CS COPY

SECRET

26 May 69

50-6-75/2

--

---

## Page 93

14-00000

ORIG: JUDKINS: ds

UNIT :

FH/3/05X

EXT :

5940

DATE:

1 MARCH 1963

24

Laf

10, MAXICO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF, C/WH 5

INFO:

ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, S/C

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRBT

B-08

POUTING

4Hna S3 28

DEFERREC

X/ROUTINE

10 HEXI

INFO

CITE DIR

RYBAX

REP MEXI 3575

HOS PREPARING AND HILL POUCH LITENSOR FRISPING PAPRES

IN ENGLISH, PAPERS FILL INCLUOS SONS RATS TO PERTINENT DATA

ALREADY AVAILABLE AT STATION.

11z

21965

- 21965

AND OF MESSAGE

CAS GAVE ON VARIOUS SOUNTRIES NAMED.

*(IN 75331 (LITENSOR HAS ASKED FOR ANY BRIEFING PAFERS KUBARY

c/im/3

#H/COPS

asi, St.

lettin)

F05J09t S914+19

CAID

COOIDINATING OFFICE

eNOUP I

Instudad trom autonalke

RELEASINO OPFICES

SECBBT

declanaltication

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

75331

AUTHENTICATIMO

OFFICER

Copy No.

---

## Page 94

14-00000

we cano: 087-480594553

.. are

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECKIS

ROUTING

DATE :

TO

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO

27 FEB É3

DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

CAH 5

ADDP, C/CI, C/01/10.2, C/FI 2, S/C:2

FEB 27 0411Z 63

ROUTINE

DIR CITE NEXI 3575

IN75331

REF

A DIR 55557

B NEXT 1919(0 20593)

1. LITENSOR HAS ASKED VIA LIELEGANT FOR ANY BRISFING PAPERS KUBARK

CAIN GIVE ON FRANCE, YUGOSLAVIA, POLAI, WEST GERMANY,

2. CURTIS WOULD APPRECIATE ANYTHING HEADQUARTERS CAN MAKE

AVAILABLE AND EELIEVE HQS MAY WISH ATTIÚPT INFLUENCE LITENSOR ON

•CERTAIN POINTS IN SOME OF THESE COUNTFIES.

3. WILL NEED REPLY SOON AND, IF HQS WISHES PREPARE PAPERS,

APPRECIATE RECEIPT BY 28 MARCH.

Mater

GROUP 1

FROM

DOWNCRADING

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 95

PRICESENS

DISPATCH

SECRET

: Chief of Station, Moxico City

TO

TRi MATRE PRIETO

TO QUAITS:

ABSTRACT

I'M: Calor, WIl D1010100

LITENSOR ReQUESt for Information on Amunition for ZAPATA

Movement.

ACTATE REPUTiO RETRENUES

HN8-11258

Portardod heronità l8 a bureau roport contalalag additional

Inforantion on the reportod shipment of asmunition fros

Brownsville, Texaa to Mexico.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachment:

D5A-31071, T Jan. 83

Distribution:

O 8 1 - COS, Mesico CIty, B/Att

- RI H/Att

i - Chrono i/Att

I CROSS REVERENCE TO

CLASSIFIGATION

SPCHET

OFFICER

OUTE TYPED

23 J8n. 63

NSINTCH SYMBOL AND NUMBEN

71047-13286

HEA, QUARTERS FILE NUMBER

901-352-249

450-6-75-3

URIGINATNG

TYPIST

WW/3/Mex/I.i. Reoves:ds

COUROINATING

DAlL

DATE DESPATCHED

ExT.

5210

12™ 53

CPRICE SYMBLI

C/WH/D

USE PRESTOLS EDMON RURALLS INESSIDO ANSOM ILAY AÉ USE.:

DATE

1+0)

RELEASING

J.C. King

DISPATCH

---

## Page 96

LADDITILU MILDORNE

SECRET

DATE : 8 DEC 62

TO

: DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY:

ACTION: C/H 5

INFO

: ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CI, G/FI 2, C/MS 2, S/C 2

ROUTING

15

DEC 8 19082 82

ROUTINE

IN 32097

DIR CITE MEXI 2787

IN32097

REF DIR 03858#

RYBAT LIENVOY

Lo COS HAD TWO HOURS ALONE WITH LITENSOR AND LITEMPO/2 ON 5

NOV

AT WHICH TIME LITENSOR VIGOROUS AS EVER ME THIN; BUT HE SAID THIS

ON DUCTOR'S ORDERS TO LOSE WEIGHT.

COS HAS NOTICED LITENSOR MUCH

THINNER AND HAS AGED RAPIDLY IN FOUR YEARS IN PRESENT. POST, :

BUT NO EVIDENCE HIS SLOWING DOWN.

?. ON 8 DEC COS TALKED WITH LIELEGANT UNO SAU AND TALKED WITH

LITENSOR AT A VEDDING ON NIGHT UE 6 DEG. LIELEGANT SAYS LITENSOR

IN EXCELLENT HEALTH.

3.

STATION WILL REPORT ANY INDICATIONS ILL HEALTH.

END OF MESSAGE

, C/S COMMENT: *DESIRED COS COMMENT ON REPORT THAT LITENSOR IN ILL HEALTH/

GROUP 1

SECRET

1 Exclaied troca artsantic

RiVASTATIES 111

d:clesallication

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 97

DATE

308

: 3 DEG 62

I TO

: DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

¡ACTION: CAM 5 (COPY ISSUED TO WH AT 1320 3 DEC LMG)

¡ INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/CI/IC 2, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECREL

?

3

ROUTING

5

6

DEC 3 1753Z 62

PRIORITY

IN28460

PRITY DIR INFO QUAT CITE MEXI 2733

RYBAT/LIENVOY '

1. LITENSOR VIA LIELEGAVT ASKED COS FOR A REPORT OY ACTIVITIES

AND ASSOCIATES OF JUAY JOSE AÑEVALO IN MEXICO. • •

2'' REQUEST HAS ADVISE WHAT REPLY COS SYOULD GIVE; ALSO, REQUEST

PERMISSION ADVISE AMB MANN OF REQUEST AND REPLY.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

OICASSITICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

Copy Na

---

## Page 98

14-00000

atis dingett

Raves

GRIG :

• UNIT :

EXT :

B94U

DATE:

30N0v52

TO:

LIBICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONf:

WH 8

INFO: C1, C1/OPS, S/C 2

CPIS MEXI

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

S? 560

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR

02182

REF DIR 01719*

1.

ODENVY ADVISED ROS 30 NOV POLL:

A. NO IDENTIFYING DATA RE ORTIZ.

B. LAWYER REPRESEUTING DIAZ INFANTE IS FORMAN LUCHS.

C. ODENVY REPORTS LOCLECT THAT DIAZ INFATE IS

MENTAILY INBALANCED CON MAN. THEY TAKING NO FURTIER ACTION

REF REPORT.

2. HOS ALSO HADS INFORMAL, INQUIRY OF ODACID LUNITIONS

CONTROL AND ODBOLN. NEITHER HAVE ANY INFO ON SUCH LARGE SHIPMENT

Or AIDIO FROM BROINSVILLE TO MEXICO. BOTH EXPRESSED CONCERN THIS

PEPORT AND REQUESTED SNY ADDITIONAL INFO OSTAINED BY KUBARK.

. VIE:/ ABOVE INTO, ICS PLANNING NO FURTIEN ACTION.

.

IN STATIS DESIRES FURTIER INVESTIGATION, HICS NREDS ANY

ADDITIONAL ILFO AVAILAELS RE LETTER AND ORIGINAL REPORT. ALSO IS

ORTIZ JONG TO MEXI GOVT OR LITENSOR OR IS ILE UNKNOWN INFORIANI.

$50

•"ELEASING OPTICES

ENI OF MESSAGE

COOPDINATINO OFFICEES

Excludas tear automatie

SECRET

AUTMAMTICATINO

OFFICER

REFRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 99

14.00000

ORIG:

UNIT ,

EXT:

DATE :

то.

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFI

INFO :

TO

Rooves:jz

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

unla

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PAGE THO

INFO

CITE DIR

7J CHT * Hus requesting ODENVY investigate report of

• large shipment anno fron Brownsville to Diaz

Infante followers.

C/S COMMENT: RE REQUEST FOR TRACES ON J. ORITZ.

RING

C/WHD

RELEASINO OFFICEI

CIALIA - J. Roman (by phore) )

Aôt-

weir

arNED

HOLMAI

I. Flynn (by phone

C/HH/3

CI/OG/TR/F. Hughes (draft)

OCROINATING ORFISE

SAOUR 1

SECRE

Lected liara passants

doc tasa ficaties

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

Copy No.

---

## Page 100

14-00000

is.

ORIG: J. l. Reeves:j:

UNIT :

WH/3 Moxico

EXT. :

6284

DATE :

28 Nov 62

1767

то .

MEXICO CITY

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONF. hi 8

INFO: C1, C1/OPS, FI, FI/INT 2, S/C 2

OPIN MEXI

INFO

REF MEXI 2688 (IN 25823)*

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

8.08

ROUTING

F:I

29:a 62 CO

302

ROUTINE

CITE DIR

01719

NO HQ TRACES SUBREY, REQUESTING ODENVY INVESTIGATE REPORT

AND PASS RESULTS TO KUBARK HQ.

END OF MESSAGE

CE COMMENT ARE ATROOM S. OROTHER VAN BONE FOR DIAZ INFANTE FORCES TO STAGE

ANTOSHE REVOLUTION

RELEASING OLICE

CI/STAFF- Mr. Hunt (draft)

WH/COPS

COOCDINALINO OPRICROS

GROUP I

SECRET

Iretadad trass artarratio

soon, red, 18 and

mathies

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

nealmo

NED P.

HOLMAI

ТНЕНТІСЯТІ

FIC

Copy No.

---

## Page 101

14-00000

DẠTE :

363

25

NOV 62

CLiSSIEU MiSS IUE

SECRET

Gir

1:

DIRECTOR

¡ROM: MEXICO CITY •

ICTIONN:

NFO

:

WH 8 (WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1225 28 NOr 6El/OJ

C1, C1/OPS, FI, S/C 2

•

ROUTING

NOV 28 1720Z 62

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 25823

OPIM DIR CITE MEXI 2688 1N25823

1. MORNING 28 NOV LIELEGANT GAVE CURTIS COPY LETTER ADDRESSED

LITENSOR WITH PERSONAL REQUEST FROM LATTER FOR URGENT AND IMMEDIATE

INVESTIGATION.

2. LETTER POSTMARXED SA NOU 1962 FROM S ORTIZ 285 LOS ROBLES AVENUE,

PASADEN:, CALIFORNIA, SUOTE CHECH INTO REPORT OF ANMUNITION FROM

BROWNSVILLE, TEXAS, PORT FILLING 22 RAILROAD CARS (968 TONS) BOUND

FOR DIAZ INFANTE FORCES TO STAGE ANOTHER REVOLUTION. A LAWYER

REPRESENTING HIM IS NORMAN FUCK. THIS MEETING WAS IN OFFICES

MILLIKIN AND MONTEONERY IN PASADENA (CALIF) UNQUOTE.

3. VIEW THIS PERSONAL REQUEST BY-LITENSOR REQUEST HQS IMMEDIATE

TRACES, INVESTIGATION AND REPLY OPIM. NO STATION TRACES SUBJECTS

BUT EXTENSIVE FILE ODENVY REPORTS MARCO ANTONIO DIAZ INFANTE•

10.0

END OFMESSAGE

CHOUP I

IXSLUSIO

FROM

AUTO-

SECRET

NATIC DOUNGRADING &

DICLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

-- -

---

## Page 102

DATE :

TO

:

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO :

054

30 035 62

DIRECTOR

MEXICO E!TY

C/WH 5

ADDP, C/CI, D/OL 2, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGRET

ROUTING

OCT 30 06427 62

ROUTINE

IN 48632

DIP CITE MEXI 2372

RYEAT/LIENVOY

(ALSO REVD 207)

L. RECUEST TWO REVERE 2CULTAPE RECORDERS WITH MY" TYPE CORDS

AND TAO LEH-TYPE IMPULSE RECORDERS MODEL B-IC WITH CONNECTIONS

IN RELE BE SENT MEXICO SOONEST.

Z0 TiRED ECUIPMENT TO DETERMINE MODIFICATIONS NECESSARY

FOR NEW

LIENVOY INSTALLATION.

3. WILL ORDER RENAINING ECUIPHENT WHEN NECESSARY MODIFICATIONS

ARE DETERKINED AND WHAT ADDITIONAL ECUIPNENT IS NEEDED.

END OF MESSAGE

50-6-70-

GROUP I

Excluded frau Autcratzs

Doingrading and

SECRAT

Declassificatica

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITED.

Copy Na

---

## Page 103

14-00000

ORIG :

UNIT

OCI

EXT

7454

1605

DATE :

25 SEPTEMBER 1982

TO • MESICO CITY

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF:

AD/C1 2

INFO :

AO, C/CA, CAM . 0/1, 5/22

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

8.08.

ROUTING

256072 i

itz

titi

DEFERRE

ROUTINE

PRITY HEXT

INFO

CITE DIR

20555

RYBAT PBBAND

REP: DIR 37635 (OUT 79205)

FOR PASSING TO LITENSOR

1. SOVIET PROPAGANDA SEMA CONTINUES TO CHARGE TEN US WITH

"AGGRESSIVE INTENTIONS" TOWARDS CUBA AND CARRIES DITAILS IN SOVIET

EX NEVSPAPERS CONCERHING ALLEGED PROVCCATIVE ELIGHTS BY US PLANES

OVER SOVIET HERCHANT SHIPS ENROUTE TO CUBA, WAXLE MOSCOW CONTINUES

TO HANIFEST GENUINE CONCERN OVER POSSIBLE US ACTION TO INTERDICT

SOVIET SHIPMENTS TO CUBA, SOVIET FOREIGN MINISTER GROMYKO IN HIS

21 SEPTIUBER UN ADDRESS NOTED VITE SATISPACTION PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S

STATEMENT THAT MILITARY INTERVENTIC COULD NOX BE JUSTIFIED AT THE

FRESENT TIMS, MOSCOW IS EVIDENTLE TRYING TO BUILD A CASE TO SUFFORT

IT'S

TOOD CHARGES IN THE UN THAT THE US IS GUILTY OR "PIOVOCATIVE ACTIVI-

TIES' THROUGHOUT THE MORLD:

2. RECENT SOVIET PUBLIC STATEMENTS SUGGEST THAT KHRISECKEV IS

STILL NOT CONMITTED TO A FIRM COURSE OF ACTICH ON BERLIN AND CONTINUSS

TO PROBE AND ASSESS WESTERN REACTION TO SOVIET MOVES. ON THE OFSER

HAND, MOSCON SEGUS INTENT CN CONVINCING THE ALLIED POWERS THAT IT HAS

NOT RETREATED FROM A COMMITUENT TO A ANILATEBAL SATTLEMENT IF NIGCTIA-

COOPDINATINO OFFICEES

Instadod 1.000 autornalle

ARIRASINGOPAICES

SECRET

doclassincation

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEÙ.

AUTHINTICATIMO

orriceR, .

Copy No.

---

## Page 104

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

UNIT,

EXT:

DARE I

то:

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONF,

INFO,

10

?1:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OU1 80565 DIR 38385

-2-

TIONS LATER IN THE YEAR PAIL TO PRODUCE RESULTS.

CITE DIR

:.?

3. BUILDUP OF CHICON FORCES IN TAIWAN STRAITS BFRING AND SUMER

1982 LEFT FEXPING IN STRONGER MILITARY POSITICN THERF BUT POSTIRE

REMAINS PRIMARILY DEFENSIVE, CHINATS, THONGH SXILL A TALYING ABOUT

RETURN TO MAINLAND, ARE UNLIKELY TO LAUNCH ANY OPERATIONS LARGER THAN

SHALL-SCALE INTELLIGENCE PROBES IN THE FOREJEEABLE FUTURE. BOTH

SIDES ADIERE TO BASIC POLICY POSITION THAT "THO CHINAS" SOLUTIONS/RI

OUT OF THE QUESTION, AND THAT THE ONLY POSSIBLE SOLUTION IS

DESTRUCTION, ABSCRETION RIVAL REGINE.

1. INDIA CHIHA: RECENT CLASHES OI ASSAM-TIBET FRONTIER HAVE

REFOCISED ATTENTION ON EASTERN END OF HIMALAYAN BORDERLY AND

HEIGHTSNED SINQ INDIAN TENSION; SLIRMISHIIG LIKELY TO CONTINE BOTH

IN LADAKH AND MORTIFAST, BUT ONSET OR WINTER CONDITIONS IN MID

OCTOBER AND APPARENT RELUCTANCE OF BOTS SIDES TO EXTEND FIGHTING HAKES

OUTUREAK OF LARGE-SCALE HOSTILITIES UNLIKELY.

5. INDIA-PAKISTAN: DESPITE FERLODIC TENSIONS OVER BORDER INCI-

DENTS$ AND LACK OF PROGRESS ON KASHMIR DISPUTI, RELATIONS ARE

RELATIVELY STABLE AND KHR THERE 19 LITTLE PROSPECT OR MILITARY ACTION.

6.

JAPAN: NO CHANGE IN JAPANESE SECURIZY SITUATION, VISIT OF

GROUP 1

Rariuone trace automats

RELEASINO OFFICER

•SECRET

doungradina and

declaraldicalion

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTNENTICATIMO

OFFICER

Copy No.

- --

=-

---

## Page 105

14-00000

ORIGI

UNIT ,

EXT ,

DATE:

•

то .

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF,

INFO: .

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

8-08

ROUTING

OFFERRED

LOUTINE

-3..

OUT 80565 CIR 38385

INFO

CITE DIR

KENZO MATSUMURA, RULING PARTY ELDER, TO PSIPING HAS ENCONPAGED

OPTIMISH OVER PROSPECT FOR INCREASED TRADE HITH CONTINIST CHINA DESPITE

CHICON INSISTENCK O LINKING FOLYTICS AND ECONCHICS.

%. MAILIPPINES: PRESIDINT HACAPAGAL"S & PROHISED CUESTIC ACTICAXIN

FROCRAM HAS MADE LITTLE REAL FROGRESS AS YET, BUY HE HAS MAINTAINED

THS POLITICAL INITIATIVE BY ENFRASIZING HIS ANTI-CERCUPTION CAMPAIGN.

8, INDOHEBIA: EARLY CABINET CHANGES ARE EXPECTED, BUT INDONESIAN

POLICY WILL NOT BE APPECTED. THE GUVERVNENT IS FREPARING TO TANT

OVER CONTROL OF NEW GUINEA PRON THE IN NEXT BAX, AND OTHERMISE IS

PRIOCCUPIED WITH ECONQNIC FROgLEMS.

END ON MESSAGE

NOTE TO CABLE SECRETARIAT: FLEARE FURNISE COEY TO OCE

RELEASING OFFICES

2. HE/COFS THY

WEBE

COOKUINAILIE OFFICERS

Excludon 1r00

autoraarle

Hungar the

SECRET

faciassinestion

REFRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED..

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

---

## Page 106

14-00000

ORIG: John M. Whitten: j8

UNIT

•CHIV/ 3MaxiCo

EXT :

5940

DATE: 20 Sep 62

1528

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM, DIRECTOR

• CONF,

WH 8

INFO, CI/OPS, FI/INT 2, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGRET

ROUTING

2TSEP62 15 462

то

MEXI

INFO

CITE DIR

SIG CEM

DEFERRED

E ROUTINE

OUT79205

37635

REP MEXI 1979 (IN 25427)*

DIR 35657 (OUT 75740) *i OF 12 SEP WAS SENT IN ANSHER TO YOUS REQUEST FOR

SPECIAL BRIEPING FOR LITENSOR. ALL OF IT MAY BB PASSED TO HIM. WILL BRING IT

UP TO DATE ON 26 OR 27 SBP AS YOU REQUEST.

END OF MASSAGE

**PBBAND - Moscow statement ra Cuba, situation In Japan and

C/NH/3

•ORDINATIVE SUACTE

Lectedad An endeauste

Апартабіла «nd

SBCRIT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTULATICATIMO

OFFICER

Copy No.

-

---

## Page 107

4-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTINg

DATE

T:

06o

19 SEP.

:

DIRECTOR

, MEXICO CITY

11+4201

MEXI

•HUN:

• ADOP, C/CA 2, C/C1,

C/Fl 2, s/c 2

SEP 20 0446762

ROVLINE

IN 25427

DIR CITE MEXI 1979 COUSLER ACTING)

IMMEDIATE ACTION

RYBAT

REF 'MEXI 1919

(u ao93)

•10

PARA FOUR RETE PLS CABLE REPORT SOONEST.

REQUEST ADDITIONAL CABLED REPORT TO ARRIVE MEXI 26 OR 37

SEPTO

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *MEXI REQUESTED CABLED SITUATION REPORT OF WHATEVER COS

CAN PASS

PERSONALLY TO LITENSOR.

support

8S0ur

Decades tea Istoralk

SECRET

taurinestica

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 108

4-00000

ORIG :

UNIS. OCI

EXT : 7454

1601

CAVE : 12 85РТБЫВКА 196%

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM. DIRECTOR

CONF: AD/CI

INFO:

C/CA 2, C/EE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING

592

SIS CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 75740

065

PRITY MEXI

INFO

CITE DIR

B RYBAT PBBAND

REY MEXI 1919 (IN 20593)

I. MOSCON'S STATEMENT OF 11 SEPTIBER ON CUBA APPEARS DESIGNED TO

ADVANCE VARIUTY OF SOVIET EJECTIVES, FOREMOST AMONG THEM BEING TO

DETER US FROM ACTIVE INTERVINTION IN CUBA. ALINOUGH STATELENT AGAIN

USED VAGUS AND AMBIGUOUS LANGUACE TO AVOID CLEAR-CUT CONHITHENT TO

DAFEND CUSA IN ALL CONTINGENCIES, IT HAS FURTHER ENGAGED SOVIET

PRESTIGE IN ENSURING SURVIVAL OF CASTRO REGIA. AS BEFORE, HOWEVER,

USSR IS ATTEMPTING TO CREATE IMPRESSION CUBA IS UNDER FROTECTION OF

SOVIET NUCLEAR AND MISSILE POWER.

STATEMENT WAS ALSO CALCULATED TO ENABLE MOSCON TO CLAIM FULL

CREDIT FOR HAVING PROTECTED CUBA IF NO US-SUPPORTED INVASION OR

INTERFKREHCE WITH SOVIET SHIPPING HATBRIALIZES, IN ADDITION TO THIS

DETERRENT EFTECT, HOSCOW APPARENTLY IS ATTEMPFING TO CHECK GROHING

CONCERT IN US AND LATIN AMERICA OVER SOVIET INTENTIQNS IN CUBA, IT

STRESSED DEFENSIVE NATURE OF SOVIDI HILITARY EQUIPKINT BEING FURNISHED

CUBANS XU AND IMPLICITLY DENIED ANY SOVIET INTENTION TO ESTABLISH

MILITARY RISES BASES IN CUBA.

STATELENT, MOREOVER, CONVEYED INDIRECT

COORIIUNIIECEAICEAS

RELEASING OFFICER

Iscluded

CONFIDENTIAL

dorgiadlag one

sociaze iative

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 109

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CONFIDESTIAL

0.00

ROUTING

UNIT:

EXT :

DATE

10 :

FROM:

DIRECTOR

cONf,

INFO:

17

596

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OLT75:40

10

NOT CONTACT US VITA BEULTANIOSS CHALLEMGES IN BOTH CUBAN AND GERLIN.

IT SUCGETS THAT LEADERS INTEND TO POSTPONE

• FURTHER SERIOUS BERLIN

TALKS UNTIL LATE THIS XI YEAR OR EARLY XEXT YEAR, TO GIVE THLASELVES

TIME TO KES ASSESS IMPACT ON WESTERN POSIT CY PROPAGANDA ATTACKS

ON US "AGGRESSIVE ACTIONS" IN UN ASID OF MANEUVERS TO INVOLVE UN IN

BERLIN BETTLINENT.

2. CHICON MILITARY BUILDUP IN STRAITS IS REGARDED AS PRIMARILY

DEFENSIVE AND CHINATS ARE SEONING RELUCTANCE, TO UNDERTACE PROVOCATICNS

THAT MIGHT LEAD TO HOSTILITIES, RECRUT U-? INCIDENT NOTHITESTANDING.

3. ALTHOUGH SINC INDIAN BORDER REMAINS TENSE WITH RECURRENICE OF

SHALL SCALS SKIRMINIES, CHANCE OF AHY KARDE-SCALE QUIREAS OF HOS

FILITIES IS REMOTE; SHIRHISHIIO LIXELY TO COITINUS UNTIL ONSET 01

4. IN JAPAN, SITUTION IS QUIET; LEFTISTS APPARENTIX COSSIDER

PRESENT INTERNITIONAL AND DOLESTIC ISSUES LACE POTENTIAL FOR CREATING

FUBLIC DI STUKBANCES.

5. INDONESIAN SITUATION HAS RETURNED TU NORMAL FOLLORING AGREENNET

WITH HETHERLANDS FOR SETTLEMINT OF WEST NEW GUINEA ISSUE UNDER US

AUSPICES.

SRIRASING ORDICES

END. OS,E

MESSAGE

OPIICERS

GROUP I

Includas leora puladals

CONFIDENTIAL

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

wsfd.Chestem

AUTHENTICATIMO

OFFIDEN

Copy No.

---

## Page 110

4-00000

• 087;

DATE : 11 SEP 62

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

: DIRECTOR

FROM

: DJAKARTA

ACTION: FE 8 (FE TEMPO COPY SLOTTED 0345, 11 SEP)

INTO : ADDI, CA Z, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CI/OPS, C1/IC 2,

F1, F1/D, F1/INT 2, IW 2, WH 7, DD/1, AD/CI 2, S/C 2

ROUTING

SEP 11 06392 62

PRIORITY

IN 19949

PRITY DIR INFO PRITY MEXI CITE DJAX

8352

REF A DIR 34266 AULt 73366)

C/5 COINENT:

*FOR BACKGROUND BRIEFING FRIENDLY

& DJAL 8857 (H/FS92)

SERVICE ONLY REQUESTED STATION CABLE SITREP

INFO MEX! 10 SEPT.

1. IN GESENCE REPLY REF & DUAX APPPAISING SITUATION IN WAKE VEST

IRIAN SETTLEMENT AND ASIAN GAMES AS FOLLOWS.

2. INDOW OFFICIALDOW INDULGING IN STATE OF EUPHORIA AFTER INAL

REALIZATION TWO LONG SOUGXT OJECTIVES OF TEST IRIAN AND ASIAY CAMES.

OUTCOME OF WHICH EMINENTLY PLEASING TO THEM. SUKARNO IN EXCELLENT

SPIRITS AND DEVIOUSLY RIDING HIGH IN FULL CONVICTION HIS PERSONAL AND

AUTHORITARIAN POLICIES OF MOSILIZING POPULACE TO CONFORY TO OBJECTIVES

OF GUIDED DEMOCRACY ARE BEING JUSTIFIED. DELY PERSISTENT CLOUD ON

HIS HORIZON IS DEBILITATED ECONCHY, WHICH HE NOW MARSHALING STATE

APPARATUS TO RECTIFY. ACTUAL PROCEDUPES SUKARNO WILL ADOPT TO

ATTEMPT RESOLVE SEVERE ECONOMIC PROBLEMS STILL UNCLEAR. HE WELL

AWARE, YOWEVER, THAT BY ALLEVIATING ECONOIC DISTRESS AND INJECTING

SOME VIGOR INTO SONOMY HE VILL BE ABLE CIRCUSCRIE WHATEVER LATENT

OPPOSITION THERE MAY STILL BE TO HIS FEGINE.

3. WESTERN INITIATIVES

IN REACHING WEST IRIAN SETTLEMENT SATISFYING

INDON CLAINS HAS HAD INUOTATE INPACT DE BESEEESING PS-SETTLEMENT aM

BED.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 111

14-00000

EJAK SS

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

— pisE 2

IMBALANCE OF INCONS PRO-ELOC ORIENTATION, WISTHER THIS NEW SALAVGS

WILL BE TIPPED IN FAVC? WEST PROSLEVATIC AND DEPENDS ON FURTHER WESTERN

INITIATIVES AND CHARACTER OF BLOC COUNTER OFFENSIVE. TWO INDO: SCHOOLS

THOUGHT PREVAIL. ONE CONSISTING MIDDLE LEVEL BUREAUCPACY APPARENTLY

SEE OUTCOME WEST IRIAN ISSUE AS PROPELLINO INDOVESIA CLOSER TO WEST.

OTHER, WHICH REPORTEDLY INCLUDES ELEMENTS PALACE GUAND AND SUCH

PÉOCESSIONAL STATE PHILOSOPHERS AS RUSLAN

ASDULGANI, SEEMS TO BELIEVE

SOME OVEPTURES TO BLOC NECZSSARY IN ORDER BLUNT ANY IMPRESSIS THAT

CHST IRIAN SETTLENENT WILL COMPROMISE INSON VERSION NEUTRALISM TO

ADVANTAGESWEST.

?

INTERNALLY, VAST AND DISCIPLINED PRI CINCONESIA COSMUNIST PARTY,,

ORGANIZATION SOMEWHAT QUIESCENT AND SEEMINGLY STILL AWAITING GUIDELINES

FCOM MOSCOW OR PEKING ON TWISTS THEIR SUBVERSION SHOULD TAKE IN WAKE

WEST IRIAN SETTLEMENT. HOWEVER, PKI CESERVED ADDING TO MOMENTUM

FORE DEMOSILIZING ARMY AND LESSENING ASZY INFITENCE, WHICH MAIN

OPSTACLE PRI ANSITIONS, IN INTERNAL FOLITICAL AFFAIRS. INDON MILITARY

COUNTERING THIS MOMENTUM BY SEEKING QUICE LIMITED DEMOSILIZATION IN

MANNER CALCULATED PRESERVE THEIR STATUS DIDER GUIDED DEMOCRACY

AS ONE OF FOUR MAIN FUNCTIONAL GROUPS CONTOLLING INDONESIA'S

FORTUNES.

5. SUXARNO GIVING NO IMPRESSION HE INTENDS LIBERALIZE NIS

AUTHORITARIAN REGINE. ON VOUTPARY HIS RETOOLING OF "LIBERAL" ELEMENTS

FROM GOVT BUREAUCRACY BEING INTENSIFISD AND NEW IMPETUS BEING GIVEN

TO NATIONAL FRONT AS SUKARNO'S CATCHALL AND MAIN POLITICAL INSTRUMENT

FOR CONTROLLING AND GUIDING ENERGIES OF EMASCULATED POLITICAL

PARTISS.

SPXI EXCEPTEDI AND FUNCTIONAL GROUPS TO CONSOLIDATE PRECEPTE GUIDED

DEMOCRACY:

(END OF MESSAGE.)

SECRET

---

## Page 112

rican itous unit

110

DATE : 8 SEN 62

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : DUANARTA

ACTION:

FE 8

INFO : F1, FI/INT 2, WH 7, SIC 2

CLASSIFLED MESSAGE

SECRET

140

RIOUSING

5

SEN 8 0649Z 62

ROUTINE

IN 18892

DIR CITE DJAX 8837

REF DIR 34266 (ort 73306)

DJAX UNCLEAR WHAT TYPE SITREP WANTED. IN VIEW PRESSURE OTHER

WORK WE WONDER WHETHER HOS COULD NOT DO A BETTER TAILORED AND MORE

COMPLETE 30B.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: "REQUEST STA CABLE SITREM INFO MEXI 1O DENT.

1116.

trusts

Excludes Mean aalazatie

SECRET

ComParis de 201

ceciassilisai.on

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING UFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 113

14.00000

028

DATE : Z S5P 62

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 2 (CAH TEMPO COPY SLOTTED 2315, 7 SEP)

INFO : ADDP, C/CI, C/FE 6, S/C 2

RUnNG

зі Чий

15

SEP 8 02÷57 62

PRIORITY

IN 18811

PRITY DIR CITE MEXI 1888

'RYBAT

REF DIR 33982 Out 72732 *

10 LITENSOR NOT AVAILABLE UNTIL AFTER 17 SEPT. HE TRAVELLING

OUTSIDE MEXICO CITY®

2. COS WITH AMB MANN AND MATERIALS SENT (WHICH NOW IN SPANISH)

WILL HAVE MEETING WITH LITENSOR (PRIVATELY) PRIOR TO HIS DEPARTURE.

3. APPRECIATE HOS HELP.

C/S COMMENT:

LITENSOR.

END OF MESSAGE

*MR HENRY HECKSHER AVAILABLE DURING PERIOD 10-17 SEP FOR BRIEFING OF

He coln wear.

ashan can antanatio

SECREI

sortea ad

Ariass anthia

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 114

14-00000

1030.

ORIO: MERY D. LECHSHER

UNIT : CB/ PIA

EXT , 5426

DATE : 5 SAPIEMBER 1962

i?:

1771

TO • DIAKARIA

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF,

FE 8

INFO,

F1, F1/INT 2, WH 7, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

BECRET

0.08

ROUTING

55C0s is

SIGGEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT /3306

DJAK

• INTO

CITE DIR

34266

FOR BACHUROUND BRISPINO FRISTULY SURVICE ONLY REQUEST STATTON CABLE BTIREP IMO

NET 10 ESPIONER.

552

END OP MESSACE

LENNOY

Vivian.

ESVOND FITZGERAL

CEIK?, FE DIVIBION

SRIRASINO DEFICIA

HAVRY D. LECKSER

Excisadad trars autoraerte

"CHTEP, FE/PIA

SCRET

demagrading ant

deskeezitlesthan

УТНІМТІСАТІМ

AFICE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

-

---

## Page 115

4-00000

1g:

arti

UNIT :

DIT..

DATE:

Vernot freshan: ja

HE COFS

7749

5 Soptasbor 1983

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SBCBBT

ROUTING

то..

MIXICO CITY

5SEP * 15 858

FROM.

DIRECTOR

CONF,

C/WH 5

15O, ADOP, C/C1, C/FE 6, S/C 2

- SIS-GEM

DEFEATED

ROUTINE

V772932

TO

PRTY MIXI

INFO

CITE DIR

33892

RYBAT

DIR 31814 (OUT 89115)*

1. ER. HERY RUCISHES AVAILABLE DURING PERICO 10-17 SEP POR 2RISFINO

CE LITERBOR.

2. AOVISE DATE BOST CONVENIENY TO LITENSOR AND COS.

3. AS COS AWARE ME HECRSARR AS BICELLENT ARSI ENCILEDGE OF INDONESIA,

PRILIPPINES AND JAPANY, HE WILL REQUIRE INTERPRETER ASSISTANCE PROM COB.

- 6 PES ME, HACKSHER DEPARTURG WITHIN YOU DASS O TRIP TO CERTAIN

CARIBBEAN COUNTRIES IN CONEECTIGN WITH ANOTHER PROJSCT, WOULD APPRSCIATE

REPLY AS SOON AS FEASIBLE.

END CP MESSAGS

WH CHT Stated Iq would notily Station when selection of expert in arza

knowledge firued up.

SING

Nothin

NED P.

ELMAH

8AB3

COOXDINATING OFFICIES

Exceriod ton ouromotic

tor ignsiticaiion

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

ITHINTICATIN

IRFICE

Copy Na

---

## Page 116

14-00000

DRIG,

UNIT.

DATE.

J. R. ReAVES: j8

WHV3Mexico

5940

23 Auguat 1962

. ~77

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONFI G/H 5

INTO, ADDF, C/CI, G/TE 6, S/C 2

TO

MEKT

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SBORBI

INFO

24 huce 00

10₴

StO C34

DEFIRCED

ROUTNE

0UT69116

CITE DIR.

31814

RYBAT

REP ARXX 1773 (IN 100÷6)*

1.

BRIEFING PAPERS POUCHED AS ATTACIMELT TO HA11 10882 DATED

20 AUG:

2.

DUB ARRI RAOWLEDGS AND LANGUAGE REQUIREMENT, SELECTION ON

EXPERT STILL UNDER CONSIDERATION. WILL NOTIFY STATION WHEN madem

SELECTION FIRMED UP.

BND OF MESSAGE

WH CHT: #LITISOR now tentatively plans depart on Far Bast Isly 26 Sep.

MUCOPS RAD

HERBERT

Malaion

HOLLIN

AELRASING OIFIEER

COORDINATINO OPTICER

SECRRI

GRO" !

ANTMANTICATING

OFFICER

cariasticira

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 117

4-00000

=a*g.

18511 .

ACTION

062

33 AUG E2

• DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

С/WH 5

ADOP, C/C1, C/FE 6, s/c 2

CLASSISES N'ESSAGE

SECRET

ROSTING

'S :

AUG 23 03-22 62

ROUTINE

IN 10046

DI: CITE NEXT 1773

KET

AYBAT

LITLABOR NON TENTATILLE PLAG DEPART UN PHILIPPINES CETOROVERD.

INSORECIA, JAPAN,

APPRECINTE LE HAS COLO PYLO: BRIEFING PAPERS O INDONESIN,

JAPAN AND- INDIA;

station tout carperato

3.

WILL

GABLE MEN DEFINITE FRANG AVAILADIE.

RE PARA E REF GiS GAN LITERFUGE AT HERTINGS IN EXPERT CONES.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT:

"HOS PREPAREO OFFER BRIEFTIG PAPERS PER AND CONCURRED EXPERT

COMING MEXI.

SECRET

feinzung

' 3!.:

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE SEGNE OFFICE 15 PROMISITED.

Cop! No.

---

## Page 118

4-00000

10

DISPATCH

Chlor of Sration, Mazico City

OLASSITICATION

УВСДВТ

1898/80

preten

Pry.rO

MANN: FIVE INDEXINO

NO INORITE REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

MANPINETIAS MASA

CAN M'NUE INEVUINO

ARSTRACT

SUBUICT

ACTION RIGUIHLO

Calal, WHD

BILefLAg PApErS LOS LITENSOR

1 MEXI 1469, 23 JUSY 1962

1a Forwarded hereuled ara the briellag papers on the Coralor

Movement 1a Japan, India and Indonesta as requested in refereace.

2. These studies were proparad by KUDRi And Ars forulrded Pur

translatloa sy the station, Also, lt lo requeated that the 8ratlos

revies the studies and agaitize then for passaga to LITEOR as appropolate.

IND OF DISPATCH

Attachsants:

Bololing papera:

1 on: Japss, India, Indoves1e

Distribution:

041 - COS Hexien Clky, w/attachoents

§ CROSS FETTRENCE TO

ILASSIFICALION

CATE TIPLO

20 Aug 63

DISPATCH SIMACE AND NUAISER

DATE DISPATCZILO

23 AUGIYOL

19051-10882

HEADQUARTEAS ME NUMBLA

201-209529

---

## Page 119

4-00000

--.....

ORiG.

UNIT ,

EXT

DATE.

LEE G. NORRIS:JP

WH/ 3/Maudoo

5940

17 1aguse 1962

TO , MEXICO CITY

-

FROM.

DIRECTOR

1590

5.00

-ASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET RIBAT

3-68

ROUTING

032

CONF:

c/wt1 5

¡INO, AODP, C/CI, C/51 2, C/ISP 2, S/6 2

DEFLRS9C CEM

ROUTINE

OUT 66927

OPERATIONAL, IMMEDIATE

aTE DIR

30.05

MEXI (OPTS)

INFO

PETRAT

REP MEXI 1693 (IN 46148)0

1o HOLLENSACK EQUIPMENT NOT SUITABLE AND NO OTHER NEW BQUIPMENT

TYPES AVAILARLE. RECOMMEND TRIP BE POSTPONED UNTIL FURTHER CONSIDER-

ATION POSSIBLE.

2. IF TRIP CAN NOT BE DELATED, WE WILL ATTEMPT ENTERTAIN AND

DIVIRT LIENVON 2 WITH ARSHART'S HEIP. ADVISE.

END 05 MESSAGE

#WH CHI, Roquosted Has show LINNVOI-2 Hollensack equipsent for

New hoP.

TSD/ACB_

(1n drart)

RELEASING OFFICER

пила

NED P.

HULMAN

COORDINATING OFFICERS

C/WH/ 3

SECRET RIBA

• AUTHENTICATINO

De. idal sites

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING UFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na.

---

## Page 120

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE

342

16 AUG 62

OMEL

'io.

DIRECTOR.

FROM !

MEXICO CITY

ACTION,

C/6H5 (WH COPY SLOTTED AT 1525 16 AUG 62)

INFO

*ADDP, C/CI, S/c 2

ROUTING

AUG 16 1922Z 62

TO

PRIORITY

IN 46497

CITE

MEXI 1711

(PRIORITY) DIR

NỢ

REF DIR 29996 (OUT 66087)

SEE MEXI 1693.

(IN 46148)

END OF

MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT:

*DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES..

**RE INFO THAT AREMART AND LIENVOY 2 COMING WASH 17 AND 22 AUG.

Battal de Erases

SECRET

besitate

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No:

---.

---

## Page 121

4-00000

cet:

J. WHITIAN

ii:

5940

M67E: 13 Auguat 1963

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S BCRET RYBAT

2

CONF: C/WH 5.

ACDP, C/CI, S/C 2

то

PRTY MEXI

INFO

BIBAT LIENVOY

UNDERS IAND FROM MULPORD THAT ARRART AND LIENVOY 2 COMING

WASH 17 AND 22 AUG IO DISCUSS MEN LIGET EQUITEIT NOR PROJECT.

NAS SEES BEEN DELARS A EAGERLED IN VISH CE MEX 16317 AOYZSE.

FRID OF MESSAGE

3-02

ROUTING

Trat

1,5 Аос 65 21

22z

OUT66087

SIG GEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT.

66087

PRIORITI

CITE DIR

29996

C/S CONMENT:

OPERATION.

*(IN 15535) LI TEMPO-2 HAS ASKED COS SET UF TELEPHONE TAP

V

J. C. KING

CHED

HELEASING OFFICER

NED P, HOLMAN

C/WH/3

чемет"19 с-стих

S BCRBT RYBAT

do 591-9010

daciationa

REFRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHILITED.

AUTIENTICATING

Copy No.

---

## Page 122

4-00000

5:7

EATE: 30 NOR 62

TO

: DIRECTEN

FROM A MEXICO CITY

ICTION: WH 8

iNFo

: 61, C1/OPS, C1/IQ 2, FI, SR 6, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE:

236301

ROUTING

MIA 30 04477 62

ROUIINE

IN 11121

DER CITE WEXI €415

as? Dia 80232 lett 45709

EXFO PARA ONE REF

PASSED LIELEGANT, AND ALSO TO AMB.

END OF NESSAGE

C/S COMMENT:

*CONTAINED INFO SEMEN TARASCVICH BAZAROV.

--

C

SECHET"

REPRUDUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITIO

_=__

Lopy No

---

## Page 123

1400000

SECRET

7 Fobruary 1962

MEMORANDUH FOR, WH/Personnal

SUBJECT

• Raquest for Outalda Iranalator

1. It 18 requested that you contact the appropriate Carder

Boards to try to locato candidates to 1'11l the job now boing hold

by Georgo Mlako In Harico Gity, but undes deep cover. He must

have the colloing quallfications,

8. Languagoas Russian (fluant), Czech (fluont),

Spanish (mould to aspacted to bring proficionay of

Spaniah up to good).

Also provida nanos of candidates

having only Russian and Spanish.

b. Joor translating telophone tap tapos

c. Agos any agu accoptabla

do Saxe male or Ionala but nala preferablo

a. Gradas grades 9 through 12 should bu considerod

f. Sacuritys Would bo sent to Maxloo Clty to work

in a bascheuse with Maxdean liaison parsonnal and one

SUBARK Staft Agent.

Must be willing to expose sinsoll

A8 XUBART to Maxican Governmant.

i, Ipo of Exploy00, Caroor Agent or Contract Agant

profor type lf out a dula Stat Agant or Gontract bien

But via, uses do, a request should do devotad to Charlotto

3.

It de the intention of thia dosk to alot this son omployed

into a LIENVOY slot and vacato the Statlon/ambassy slot for another

FI Caso OffIcer.

HED P. HOLYAN

C/NH/3

1 - Outgoing meno chrono

---

## Page 124

SE TOT

PROJECT: LIENVOY (2135-5701-5770)

Staff Agent: ARBHARI, Arnald F.

(Pending) I February 62 - 31 Jan 1963

Maxico

SUPPORI EXPENSES: SRIATT

10% Sal, Arendun

Equalisation

Retirement

HousIng

Educatil C

AESHART auto upkeep & travol

... ...

- -

ARKHAST hono leave travel

Salary and covor travel for

ARSHART and family

Total Support Expenses

IT 1962

$65,822

5,000

500

250

326

2,100

4,00

14,900

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES:

TUTAL

9,330

23,806

12,016

365,822

,.i.::.:

EX 1963

$39, 758

--

2,000

22,670

13,670

36,088

329.758

---

## Page 125

4-00000

()

SPATCH

Chief of Station, Healeo ClEy

SECRET

POSID

PROCESSINS

ACTIN

MATALO FEE INTAKING

NO IMPETITE RIQUIRED

DAILY QUALITO

MLAPQULAATIRS DISA

CAN ATTER IROCAINO

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

ACCON

111S810

BUDJECT•

Chief, UH Division

Matorial Por PasDagO to LIalson

lo detached ara twa copies el teneral alberto Bayos boob

(1n Spanion) for use in brleflag of tralaing agenta or nembers of

socurity forces with which so have llalaca.

yoursoll guide so paramilitary and savorago rechniques.

• Taco, que i demona

strates cuban support for such actluitles and the need for tralalng

In countorossures by triandly security forceo.

2o Moduquartoro has reconculad thas all l starloas dave

0nd or Enta of these books, especlally chang uhore olflelal or unofelelal

11ale0n axlots alch a socurity forae.

3. It station Mexico lo Interestal in this bock, a llelted

rarebor al coples can de obtainea.

Prior to releasing any of thesa coples,

Hoadquarters cist knos tha Individual abl service receiving the bout

thereby allowing ito clearanco release.

END 08 DISPATCH

Jugiest.

Distributies:

I Naxico Giey, w/act

"OROSS REFERENCE TO

-..

DATE TIED

DATE DISPAICHED

25 Jan 1962

25 IN 12 NON 2G VAN 1302

HNCZ-221B

HEADQUARTLAS ALE NUMECA

CLASSIFICATICH

SECRET

....

---

## Page 126

14.00000

23 Jamiary

1962

SUBYECT:

Request for LISTATY Eroject Relenal

la lu secordanca vità são los policy co charains

coanecrica bicà Fiale Agenta so dallon

Surrara as not eu a project, sacro io sa aijuateeut

tha iraiges figures groced in she arsached

the lichvor prejee: ahaild bo apprured for

8 Creal el $43, 240: 317,152 der Slsenl peer 15d2

ani $88,253 for Ilocal paes 15J3.

funds rosaling

$8,300 in ¿iscal ger 1982 ani 513,570 la fiseal

year 1953 vill be transênirod de l'esleo Clay Soppppe

to laDi drauld E, AlsiaT, stale agent.

Distgatution:

1 - LIENWOY/DeV

---

