}04-10182-10007|--. | eee a
— {2022 RELEASE UNDE
DER THE PRES -
IDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY A
. KENNEDY ASSAS: N =
SINATION RECO
RDS ACT OF 199
2 | ~

AA, DEAE - pag des

PUPLY /SUEL EVOL i
: i,
i. ee
Po] ancnusivl pares: _—_/266 LE24- iets eee ee i Yaa e
1 ‘custovtaL UNTT/ LOCATIONS oo :
: ram: eee ae :
DELETIONS, TF ive SHU AELIOL Bee MOELS t /
Ee en eee Eee eee eee i |
ee jl
|

fititipiuniiene ae
: ean or
ING OFFICIAL :



24 June 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Eduardo WHITEHOUSE Insua

1, Qn 22 June 197) | i/securtty officer,

informed DC/WH/cOG that he had been advised by SOD that Mr.
WHITEHOUSE was in Miami and had some information which he would

“Like to pass to the agency. Mr. WHITEHOUSE, a Cuban, was a

pilot during the Bay of Pigs Invasion and was under contract

with the Agency from Novenber 1964 to April 1965 as a pilot under

the WITHRUSH Project| | He has not worked for the

Agency since that time.

2. requested SOD to have Mr. WHITEHOUSE

use the Domestic Contact.Service channel in Miami for passing

his {nformation to us.
i i a va
3. File: 201-300614, {ti a
CH
chris ‘Hopkins
WH/COG/SA



PMestotes?@) oi um
vss W727 DEES ii YRRORET

on 7163/1946

23 JULY 1969 _

Gated sent anATDUEUENARION Dnwee [O-~ wou” Dayne
Se Furies (one [O" —

cerry

Teac ‘ite aed fs Tina Wetorenca noma
‘SECRET ~ : ae : j cite oinecTon 2s 387% A 2
to uE PRIORITY WH/MIAMI INFO puionrre TEGUCICALPA, SAN SALVADOR 1°" ~ ae
i TOSTEER ; of ae

1. ” MORNING 23 JULY 1969; IUSTEER | PHONED HQS CASE OFFICER AND

Qn
STATED TEDDY WHITEHOUSE: (201-300614) AND, UNIDENTIFIED AMERICAN

ATTEMPTING HIRE CUBAN PILOTS MIAMI AREA TO: FLY F-51 AIRCRAFT TO

EL SALVADOR,, IUSTEER SOURCES, WHO WERE FOUR CUBAN PILOTS WHO

REFUSED OFFER, SAID ¥HITEHOUSE AND ASSOCIATE BEGAN RECRUITMENT
“EFFORT CIRCA 14 JULY 1969, WHITEHOUSE OFFERING DEPOSIT $20,000. tN
PILOTS BANK ACCOUNT PRIOR HIS DEPARTURE FOR EL SALVADGR IF PILOT!

_ ic —, a

AGREES FY PLANE TO ELSALVADOR AND IN COMBAT, ac sar
2, IUSTEER PHONED INFO TO HQS CASE OFFICER WHEN UNABLE CONTACT

WA/MIAMI, HQS ATTEMPTING RECONTACT IUSTEER VIA PHONE ORDER OBTAIN |
FOLLOWUP INFO INCLUDING IDENTITIES ANY PILOTS WHO HAVE ACCEPTED,
. NAME OF AMERICAN ‘WHO WORKING WITH WHITEHOUSE, IDENTITY OF THEIR

EL SALVADOR CONTACT, LOCATION OF PLANES, ETC, IUSTEER DUE DEPART.
AITABLE TO WH/MIAMI AFTER 25 JULY 1969,

ANB-NOP-KYV:
MICROFILMED:
CONTINUED , , nA

SEP 1C 1969
0c. micro. sea.
2C1> 20661
ee : at
: 23.30
mauasina ofnces paar ennen [eerste | avrnemmente “arcane

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S POMIBITER, og 9 9,07

ielOveea)ian -

MIAMI BY END OF WEE:



ucssace ronw
Torat Comes:

mic: :

Guiek SECRET
an

DATED : " : 4

Seeeee peer Tmo Clnomos CJarunro
a) Coenen comeno. 5

oer
Sirus. va, i

sti

TaiavsiTaariond : daw oa bs He ‘peteronca nae)
SECRET fd : ;
. CITE DIRECTOR ZF ‘3, Ba FI
wm z : PAGE TWO 7 1,

3. REQUEST .WH/MIAMI ADVISE ANY CONFIRMATION THIS REPORT AND

ANE. FOLLOWP DATA FROM IUSTEER: IF POSSIBLE OR OTHER SOURCES.

4. FILE: 201-283488 AND 201-300614.
END OF MESSAGE

Parc
: a

. C/SOD/AB_‘Paul, Gottke (in draft)

WH/COG.

MN Peter 4 4 ”,
» | WILLIAY’V, BROE JOHN C, MURRAY i
2 C/WEHD. HH/2
:
| on cre) College
i COPY NOL

REPRODUCTION BY Oshka THad My »SSUING OF. . ¢ 1S PROHIBITED.


: INMIGPATION & NATURALIZATION NAME CHECK
cis DATE: 7 APRIL 1967
i CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
diets att * "SUBJECT: WHITEHOUSE, ROGELIO ENRIQUE



SUBJECT:

IMMIGRATION’ & NATURA
DATE: 7.APRIL 1967
CLASSIFICATION: UY

WHITEHOU:

LIZATION NAME TRACE =

ASSIFIED. -
» EDUARDO ROGELIO:-

ae CE



Miami, Fla. August 23 1965

Box
Miani, Fl

Dear

Trae, Wish to thank you for your personal concern
and’ satisfactory: solution obtained in the finan-
Lal: “settlement of my case.

wre = . I eonsider. it a privilege to have worked with
ng in a small way to preserve De=-
"Republic of Congo.

-: If L cateyer be of service to the United
States -beloved country of my ancestors- I would
consider. it.a high honor.

_ Do let me hear from you and feel sure that I
am your devoted friend.

i Sincerely,
ae

cS £5 ot
Eduardo J, Whitehouse |

UWh6 N. EB. 39th St
Miami, Fla.

MICROFICHE

Wad por 6)

Ror Pooks


20 August 1965 sce

MEMORANDUM TO: Chie £/KUCURL/HENGEN

FROM : Edward W. LORENTZ
SUBJECT y Eduardo Whitehouse
REFERENCE : Dir-35418

2 ly. Edvard W, LORENTZ met with Eduardo Whitehouse .on 17 August
1965, relative’ to finalizing the Whitéhouse claim for monies still
due from his-previous' contract. “LORENTZ emphasized that he was
authorized to pay monies due per contract through 7 April.1965,
pius a: four*day layover:.in Rome. during Whitehouse's return to the
U.S." This layover was’ due a Panam strike of which Whitehouse was
inadvertently. delayed through no fault of his own.

2. The aforegoing authority is based on ref and calculated
as follows:

A. Base Pay for March - USD 800.
B, Base Pay 7/30 for April - USD 186. 66

plus USD equivalent of USD 41.00 for actual expenses
‘while 24 days in Rome. _

C. Total USD 1027.66.

3. Whitehouse although feeling that he should be allowed the
full amounts due. amounting to USD 1950.00 has accepted such adjud-

ication of hiS-claim. LORENTZ feels that possibly he was suffic- ,
iently satisfied that he received any funds, *that probably in his

sense of fair play that the case might be considered closed. For

the record, what medical treatment received by Whitehouse: amounted

to utider USD 200: “To further complete ‘the record the following

attachments are enclosed;

A.. Letter from

Second letter from Whitehouse : :

C. Letter from Whitehouse to LORENTZ.

D. Bills of actual charges in Rome.

E. Receipt from Whitehouse for final payment. ’
F. Station. memo concerning newspaper inquir:

Boh orto Rte CUna TT ine On ne ee



» professional pilot and could be an asset to KUBARK interests.

_ 4. Less than 24 hours after facing Whitchouse to advise him
that his claim of USD 1950 had been reduced to 1027.66, Whitehouse

‘reacted with the neyspaper media “in an exemplary manner when’ he

coutd have a adverse feelin The Subject despite

difficulties encountered in the field with KUBARK advisors. appears
to be man of honor and certainly under controlled.situations #457

EM ren

Edward W. LORENTZ”



& Prepac fre Gn OF

& 2 joe LE prhthon
wee

igi ezalieeeeln Cer teetl
ao gecoe Kop

os
Tide worn

2
Z. g a ae

ROl—



. is
-—~ : =

POOR QUALITY DOCUMENT



nce ry return from
ed to you in ovr rast

Jvunrsid theretére leas
$1953.00 in ny favor, :

ern in this case,

+ abot cer n Zects concernin:
50.-that will -cx:2ain how every cent
Sunt was earned.

was shot covn near
esigned and the only one reasining

ry one refused te take cherze
eof the proxizity of

Living con

eFsonelly congratulated us for
If of the ¢

8
© ety Stet
+#opoaae

&

matter vould be ar:

Your censtéers’

Atehouse



1
1



POOR QUALITY DOCUM



seruonecrien

PROHIBITED

Porn)

A

cae ES

Beeanee

Gg.

i
2

(om Frerered @© prev

DIR CITE yo 5 :
CHAPPIE Cindi eon PaRU
E fate

t
CREF: WAVE Sia \iy

IDENTITIE

SECRET
CFA fies 5104

MICROFICHE



cudsese

Ott. tone OQ

sestexr Onie

wnilem son sefenals len A?

(17 Aue 6S

4 Ore CEO Erg tm



MESSAGE FORM
rorat comer

Quon, [Ss eC RET
Bro woes tt
2.1985 Arnevwes rue wo: 201-300814

LORENTZ):

CUAPEC 91 THRUSH PBRUMEN

4430" (tN 21101)* E e
EE REP AND TELECON “WITH LORENTZ 5 AUG, RECCMOEND

Ncecse QW) BE PAID SALARY THROUGH 7 APR 65 (DATE RETURNED
MIAMU) Ax ALL MEDICAL EXPENSES DUE ILLNESS RELATED CONGO TOUR,
HQS WENIS THIS SETTLEMENT GENEROUS IN-VIEW W PERPORMANCE IN
soxes,| | GROUNDED SIX°WEEKS, RETURNED PRIOR EXPIRATION
RCT, PLUS PIELD EVALUATION AS-MARGINAL PILOT AND TROUBLESOMY

}OSLEM, REALIZE THIS MAKES W SHORT FIVE WEEKS SALARY;
1) KUBARK SHORT ELEVEN WEEXS HIS CONTRACTED SERVICES

AS PYLOT,

FY, PROM REVIEW W 201 FILE, BELIEVE ® REASONABLE ENOUGH.
ROVE SETTLEMENT GRACEFULLY, DESIRE LORENTZ DO UTMOST
SaPTLE CASE PER ABOVE TERMS. HOWEVER, IF IT APPARENT W@ UNHAPPY

ENGUGIL TO CAUSE UNFAVORABLE PUBLICITY, LORENTZ AUTHORIZED ~

GOTLATE SETTLEMENT UP TO TOTAL REMAINDER SIX. MONTHS SALARY,

N a
END OF MESSAGE _ C13 Ave és 6s" \
*ieq Higa deotaton re eubj claims for back pay. Z 4 .
: Depen PEEe

stag MRI ieee Ee |
mic M0, .

wht fom—T}i
BERNARD 4J FINAN /oR.*

uta, vs URE ee c/300/nB

ACS eee casos



Creare}
oO tr.
stacy O sic.

aevance COPY

Orvite Ghacorree Bveee

oo 2921108
VE - 4430 Mae

ET
Vr

é C224 Jeb 6sN

: ROL GCOR MY a

g SSDEESESSDPES PSOE ORD SRSESSSESESS RSH SESHBSOS SEE s SPSSSSStm rae ears eScaranssansesanasansssanssenssssnasesssssnssssecssnsss2snsesessssssnes! Peet



‘,
Seca ” ate

12 July 1965

TO: HENGEN
FROM: Edward W, LORENTZ
SUBJECT: Eduardo Julius Whitehouse \ :

1. As we both know the Whitehouse case has been kicked around
sufficiently that the finalizing of the case should be effected as
Soor as possible. My.-trip with Larry Murphy to Dow Leutcher's office,
in: my estimation didn"t -produce any effective decision, Mr. Leutcher's
point of view was, if the min was due'the monejy pay him. If he was not.
due the monéy, don't pay him. I will give you the facts as I see them
and if you:feel that it is prudent to ‘séek the advice of Jack Anderson
“his opinion I'm sure it will be most helpful. :
nor BY MST Ue) prac
“A. “LEOP-7030 dated 30 Says indicates receipt of (¥)
‘intention to: terminate contract effective 13 May. - 0
“Additionally, stipulates (W) incapacitated six weeks 2
“and requests authorization for immediate return and

co treatment. :

vA 2, Your 97928 of 1 April, concurs requests of Leop. Additionally, 04
you stipulate to terminate contract fheiday the Subject departs Leop.

3. LEOP-8028 of 2 April, stipulates that Leop. "terminating (#)

“<- contract and returning first availabl7"! Requires medical attention

not available Leop. Malady due conditions advance basis complicated
lact of proper medical attention and maltreatment.

B. message, indicated another medical] K¢, *eT 40/Gae_!

case would remain Leop dispite fact "he Picea man wants

can contribute nothing". bie eypt fare

Ef ee WANS

4, LEOP-8054 states (W) departed 3 April, via PAA, transferring — 7
flight in Rome.’ (W) . presented me with three days Hotel bills in Rome ‘
to cover. what-he considered evacuation flight plus PAA on strike.

5. LEOP-8117 dated 7 April, allowed Perez to depart 8 April and o™%4 j
_:;Fe¢ommended approval to pay full salary til1.25 April, (Opinion - is #*'/
this a case of paying a man full..salary on one hand while not paying jwft

another under the same circumstances)?

6, DIR-99498 of 7 April, requested details of (W) medical case. 6/¢
7. LEOP-7150 dated 28 May, stipulates (W) returned on violation
not “Leop request", Instructed contact| to execute voluntary
termination of contract not executed. (W) departure 3 April not at
Leop request, (Opinion - ina contractual relationship it appears
Ue s act oe
ie vane Je bs}
yt ar C Ad Je aay
2) aor pong ld |
a cane “ yrerorics”


isgorte

highly unlikely to "request" somconé to leave or terminate written we
Agreement. Wouldn't one direct in lieu of request)? :

8. WAVE-0832 dated 16 April, gave medical evaluation which was
reviewed by WAVE Medical personnel. (Opinion - in debriefing of Sub-
ject I was personally. convinced this man’ was sick. Furthermore. (WwW)
advised that he. is in possission of medical report by’

‘that it was manditory for (¥) to be evacuated for adequate wedica
treatment. 4

9. WAVE-k457 dated 3 May, indicated (W) still under going
continuous medical treatment.

10.” On April 19, (W) Signed Gur local Quit Claim Form, but recent
gonversation with the, Subject indicated that tie felt that although the |
Form was signed that the “company would live up to.its promises",

¢ 11. There is no doubt:that (i) was i1l.and based upon medical
opinion, as late as 7 May, ih’my personal observation that the manwas
jncompatiated from performing a full time job.that based upon the fact
sthat no definitive’or written. agreement was made prior to departure, .”
that the Subject be. paid in full*for the six months term of his contract,
(Opinion ~ there is know doubt in my mind that this man firmly believes
that’ he is entitled to the salary based strictly upon the fact that he

was "evacuated" not terminated.

12. -I don't feel the man is unscrupulous enough to blackmail to
-obtain what he feels is truthfully his, but feel positive that he will
spéak to anyone ‘Of influence to assist in obtaining back salaries that
he feels is his. “Cite the five reasonably important: personnel refer-
ences that he lists on his Job Application Form,- We are not dealing
with the common type individual using vealied threats, but someone who
“is an intelligent individual who at one time exerted enough influence

rson to appoint a Chief Pilot and further influence
into taking Action to hire some of his lirideed

eet Bek

EDWARD W. LORENTZ‘



SECRET

a CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

AAS Juve 396533

WEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEF, 0PS/3/aB/S0D

ATTENTION: David Lamoureux i

201300624

‘The Tile cn.—WHITEHOUSR Insua, Eduardo Julius —_ is cancelled
and closed in CI/OA for the Toll reason:

Failure to submit PR@-I1 as required under CSi No. 10-5 or to
indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational

use'-of Subject.

ject, it vill be nevessary te
zo CI/as.

jsf Edward P. Brown

1 691 eee



nee ermine

‘er
abe
by
|
|
i
|
|

SiFITO MESS:

Gp RETuRY ExpLarmea Leop 7 4]
NOT LEQP REQUEST. :
TARY TERMINATION CONTRACT,

a
te
S
=

i NGT AT LEOP REQUEST. ¥
\CT END SIX MOUTHS, *

-
(2e May 6f-
Rel S60 E14

a

rs,



~ om
WILLIAM SCOTT PIPER, M.D.
2506 roce ox teow ative,
Comat castes, promis
25 May 1965
seiezicse
Hicniann 6.6676

Mz, Roberto MedelL
P.O. Box 831

Miami International Airport

Miami, Fla, 33148

Dear ve, Medell,

ehouse ‘was s:

a return physical examination, ALL Lavoratory
and Xray that date was relativetthe complete

Physical. exanination

=» Thé-$10;00 charge fo:
medicine and prostat

extra Charge. for sinus treazment,

Office visits from 4;

Primarily for nis. tenseness and apprehension,

The only additional
Condition, was a $20
on April 9, 1965,

WSP:bkK

Re: WHITEHOUSE, ZDUARDO J.

een by me 8 April 1965 for

re treatment included injection,
@ massage. Ther was no

pril 9th through 28th were

charge, relative his sinus
+00 charge for sinus Xrays

Sinegrely yourg,
Zao Gee Ub)

- Pipér, fp.

MICROFICH

CAM ay 65>

ROs/- B00 by



ORG,
wir,
on,
Ales

“__MESSKCE FORM
sovyanyopsys aux [7 SECRET

4q75— NO ND
_20'Hay 1965 UO-mie"In cs mENO. 2014300614

to.

swore

_CEOPOLDVILLE MXEERNPORNRATAK

FOR PURPOSE OF CONTRACT-PROVIDED MEDICAL TREATMENT, THI AEF ORE
“HE WANTS PAYMENT COVERING PRESENT MEDICAL BILLS AND BACK SALARY, .

END OF MESSAGE -

AF/S (Phone)

D050 W940 0.0,0,6.0.0,0,0,0,6, oy, 7 site ae

a 4 ° : ee
DHT : as AE AEG. “
E, N, K@RN-PATTERSON ; BERNARD J, FINAN, JR,
AF /. i C/SoD/AB—

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED.

esate
RO FOOE LY

fiom QIRECTOR __
sop C (WOAFE,wH/e 8, <Yon, PS t, ve, rE
72. LEOP ™O eaneoononoooassca = OOF tee
: ; peice
CHAPPIE(WITHSUSH PBRUMEN : | 2 7 2 7 1
REF: SUIS (IN 3689) a.
i me
PLS ADVISE PRECISE DETAILS RE MHITEHOUSE (W) TERMINATION.
: REF-A- INDICATES TERMINATION BEING eouetsiéo. HOWEVER woNoW”
ye: 7B PBR :
Pa STATES HE RETURNED, AT LEOP REQUEST WHILE STILL UNDER CONTRACT)


Te is'ay.

cpinica thst:be chowlé est bo conciéered for any futere

Gt wald ast bo estepleble fer F008 ia Qoag

oat


HPMORANDUM POA: Chief, S0D/Air Brauch
SULIEC? 1 STPIRGSH Contract

- 4, On Weuneoday, 12 May 1965, I discussed with Mr, Dow
Letcher, OP/CPD, the WIYENUSH contract sith whiob you are
femiifor and under vhion Kouardo Ttitchouse aervod ia tho

Seago. Taio te the staadord cortrnot for Cuban and Suropesa
WIFUBUSH piiot oapioyae: Spectfteaily, 1 was tatorested to
tearning frou Kr, Letcher if be beliovad Paragraph 7 D could
te apoiicavic to the once of xr. Whitehouse aince kir, Paitebouse
S8sires osoistance to paying sedios] bilis for a physteal éis=
abtisty (which aay be teczorury) wltch say have becn tnourred
While be was serving with us in the Congo,

3. Thin peworandGs Haxes record of the. fuct_that, Judging
from stot Hy. Lecohur had to say about the RIFHWUSH contract,
agi also fa view of Mr, Bes DePsitoe’s recently expressed con-
oern regarving ths benefits asvects of that contract, action
should bo taxen to reviow ang, 2f necessary, revise tho. sontrost
at tho earitost posgihie date, nis stesso fron the s

eibiisty that Cuban pilots who onffer fejurieo or Gteudilttios
while serviog with WiTGZUSH nay wish, es du the cago of Hilctiowse,
-to.olate beneftto- aftertho torzioatten ef the conzract, for
oonditions which ortginates curing tha tera of the contract.

3. Go 12 May 1085 f provides Mr, Letoher with a draft
fora of a proposed VITURUSH oostract portuining ta rotary sing
ptrerest pilots oniy.and caged that hw review 4t aad jucgo its

Baequacy.

S00 /ab/OP8/3 .

Sd ease
- URES Attn: Me
= OP CPh Attn: Mr,
= SUL Pris ee
Son AN Sos fa eee eect =}
= SOD/RI MAY 6S

Cai eeceen ecceee

= Chrone

wROl— Bl b's
‘MICROFICHS



WILLIAM SCOTT PIPER,M.D.

Gronee Db LLON zL¥B.

rionspa

iz. Rake

errice puome: mr 6-0476 © aesisencd rnowe: mr 8-5105

sercrorices

2A

ROl- F006 14



“me way related to his occupation,

“WSP2bk

+ WILLIAM SCOTT PIPER M.D.
2406 once pe teow stra
couse osotas, rroniva

7 May 1965

Mr, Roberto MedelL

P.O, Box 831

Miami International Airport i
Miami, Fla, 33148 ee :

Re: WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO

é Mr, Medel,

Mr, Whitehouse has had sinus trouble off and on
for many years. This has been increased recently,
probably due to pressure changes in aircraft,

It Has been advised that he have a nasal operation
for deviated septum. “This structural defect is in

Weliigwo

William S, Pipor, M.D.

Saeed ee pate
C2 fray



ASSIFIED MESSAGE

tora covics

“ Deore

REPRODUCTION PROMIB

>

Me i pms 2 [Gite Dace Drone

mut De? ws 4/ tt, Sort Are, efats

SECRET osoeaiz

DIR CITE WAVE 1451

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH MEDIC PBRUMER ” : /

REF: wave-o832. (> 4L796 ~~ ve
| “ WORENTZ, MIAMI SENDS: Z
|. 5 de -MOGAL. CLEARED MEDIC TREATING EDUARDO. WHITEHOUSE ADVISES suBJ
: Nor RESPONDING TREATMENT ACUTE’ AND CHRONIC SINUSITIS. LOCAL ENT
EPECIALIST RECOMMENDS: SUBMUCOUS RESECTION FOR CORRECTION DEVIATED

SEPTUM.
2. RAGUEST HQS OPINION IF SURGERY CAN BE PERFORMED UNDER TERMS

@ CONTRACT AND CITE SUBJ WAS MEDICALLY CLEARED PRIOR DEPARTURE

FoR CONGO. :
©. 34 FORWARDING MEDIC REPORT VIA POUCH.
SECRET
Fue SYBTS Mmidicnt ¢ On by Th et,
SELREI , Oy eae
G Sor Tae paw 10 WK) FEU

HAVE
PREC TOF EERE Coucen ase THIS — HE 6?"
. of i ple EME.

THE AcTICe- WOW
¢i7e

(PLLA

“OI- 2 00 GIF



i YAPH-0099
: Dispatch No. UAPAO0099
. ‘Date: .. :
: a3
4
ro “pl Gef. MUCURL
‘FROM. Gifef, iupacan

SUBJECT 2 WITHRUSH Crew Training Report

DIR 85744, paragraph 3(D).

Attachment:

afa b/w
8/c (Idens)

* Distribution:
© & 2-NUCURL
2a TUPAGAN

Co ae

|S Forwatded herewith a -aubject ‘report of tiaidthg and pilot evalua-

tion conducted by! sats: requested per reference.

Philip L. MUSHER
Chief, TUPAGAN

C7 Are ts)
ROIS COE tf



SUBJECT: WITHRUSH crew, Training “Report

: me oy the object of the créw tralktig-was. to cost exai: pier on his |:
wmowledge of the aircraft systems ana esergency procedures’ snd to check

2. The following named pilots. received
as listed’ pelow: °

3. . Evaluation of each pilot as followe:

- @. Iden A - Had flown C-46 ebout 1200 hours before and was

: picking. it up very nicely. I gave several engine out = single : ceeiesiiee
engine landing and go-arounds = no flap landing - ewergency geer
extension. Short field landinge seyeral IL3 approsches.

bd. Idrn ¢ = Was the pilot who cracked up the other Ca46, plus
he was urwilling to fly at night. I gsve him 14 hours of air time
and recormended:he be used only as a compilot on grounds of poor
head work.

. Iden B = He {a an older pilot who would bounce the airplane
t <. and then eit there waiting for it to hit again, without adding power
to let it down easy. He-also wanted to feather the wrong engine
after one was cut. Recommended he only be used as a co-pilot. —~

d. Iden D + He had been flying in and around Iden J for several -
years, however, in his) training he wae quite sloppy in his flytag.”
he would not come within 20° of assigned heading tums at the begining,



t

\ geveral rides with

Iden KL Most of the pilots were required 10
meet operational needs, Also only one B

Also he was very ‘rough with the airplane in pitch contre). On ILS
approaches he baceaoe| vary thé manifold preseure from 1z" to 30" to

try and sta the|giide sloge. On short field landing eid take=
off-aiter about gixjof them he started approaching the procedures:
I was trying to show him, but I was convinced a8 soon. ; left.
area he would return to his own style of flying. 1 recommended th
at the end .of hts eis ‘eonth contract which’ was sbout ,30 cays away

: \ ‘a ees) * 7 set
e. nf = This iain had. previous C-¥6 experience of about 2000
pours, He showéd great interest and -did 0 good: Job fromthe beginning.
1 recomended he be used aa PIC in C-¥6's.
: :

= This'.man woe suppose to have had 6 good éeal: of
flying left very auth to be desired, ‘He had.”

f. -Iden F
sexperience, dat his yeas
just been convaleacening from amebic dysentery. He: replied.
hed, that he! felt up to flying but his performance wae very ‘poor.

c till didn't feg] up to flying :and returned.to the.

Nad previous, multivengine experience and compilot

» -Hevprogresééd satisfactory ‘and with 7¢20: hours
rer released ta the field to fly in right seat to obserse tactics
and gain more experience before moving to left seat as PIC.

he [den N= Had Lintted experience, however, he wes very inters
eated and applied himself to the task of checking out in the B26.
sence a very helpful in reproducing pewer Limitations and power setting

for the CB=16

Cee iries engine and also reproduced the Paw panphiet

oot he CBelbel] series engines, which I had brought along 268 train-
ing aid. This was made required reading material for all B=26 drivers.
This man rode along as an observer while Iden G was being trained,
which aided him when he started Ciying. I recommended he also be
released to the field and ride e right seat to observe tactics

Grd gain aure excerience before flying misstene in the left seat.

i. Iden I = The Clef, Pilot of the group ia a very xapable
piior who applies himelf very well. He appears to be interested
in improving the professional standurds of his pilots. 1 had
Kim (t#20) until ft feit he would be able .to
dnstruct the rest of the pilots in the preper procedures to be

used in the BeruK's.
gram was quite curtatled by the restrictions to

remai:) out in the field tc
6 was available in Iden K which

u, The trafning pre}



18. 1 recodmend that Alr operat
equipment they are eipervisors: for’in
proficiency. The pilots

ons ‘off icers be ghecked out in the
order 50.keep “Gn, top of theiv pilora’
t over ‘should be’ ecreefied better 80,

a8 ‘not to Sabre 80 much’ training in, the field.



if : Separate Cover Attacheent to feat ;

qiirseeereentiasity |
aan. f=
Tden. G =

Iden H =|
Iden T =

Iden J = Africa

iden K = Leopoldville



us97has bodn ¢
5 for acute and curonic |.
siled to clear,

anette 7 '

secn dy:

: ca SN cera
aie : . AS AFR CF
MICROFICEE
Rci- 300614



m~ SECRET. _ au
’

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

OE Aprid 2965
To: Chief, OPS/3/AB/S0D —

ATTH: David Lazoureux 2012300614.
: FROM: CHIEF, Ci/OA : sladineeld :
: F, Ci/ fel faward Ba prowl WHITEHOUSE Insua,”
‘ Eduardo Julius

IN ORDER THAT .ZUBTHER CONSIDERATION VAY BE GIVEN YCL@ REGUEST FCR APPROVAL IN THIS Cast
THAT YOU FUPNISe TriS OFFICE THE, INFORMATION ChECREO BELOW, OR REVIE® INFORMATION ‘AS I

To[ecerts or stare’ vossiee
“| eevite oF Stare/o couuateeal Imroewat ice

GF stcuerty orf, @uront at C1/a

OF SC, OFF, ComcuRtmCt wiwo at Cv/On
Ten von

Tr

Craw (See Fenarley

Poree [Det ee tT
ecwagnss | i Ee + zs
: Poa expired on _ 26 April 1965”

‘Part If, If; within 30 “days; no“ further-interest-in Subject-has-.-.-

“Plaase ‘submit PRO: ~~ .

been indicated, POA will be automatically cancelled,

ap

889 vo reeseten vaeeeae

SECRET



omR cite wave #832. es nae
cuarere. wITUSH MEDIC PRUNES §2in8146796 :
REF DIR-97438 ¥ eee as : 2s mat

‘Lmentz Sensi ie

ROR HAL Lins EXCEPTED nievat BP raeriea ”
ESIDUAL” AMOEBIASIS, acre ASXIETY REACTION
* RECEIVIBG aD Ica 198s THESE ConpiT ions WIDER Local, Covent Fuvsic Tans
aQIRECTION 2-3: TIMES WEEMLY, a
“2. LOCAL PHYstcrans RECOMMENDATION SUBJECT HAVE HIBIRAL-
ACTIVITY UNTIL SYMPTOMS ARE RELIEVED ABD UNDER CONTROL. Go
HOSPITALIZATION EXPECTED, :

3. 80 SIGHIFICANT Facts 18 DEBRIEFING ALTHOUGH SUBJECT CLatreD
NE RECEIVED “LNJECTIONS" 18 LEOP UNDER DOCTOR'S CARE THAT EFFECTED
HIS HERVOUS SYSTEM, TKIS Fac IS ROT INCLUDED I8 MIARI MEDIC REPORT.

4. FORWARDING DETAILED REPORT VIA POUCH,

SECA ET oy pnvise 64 farsa cram ©
Crs ,

20 f- oc wan
wv BES BSS con BR ang".

~~



: ia an a
a : : :

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE rorai co

7 SECRET

Teaaar anit woTITTED

iow i

“Therion

: ace Coens sree ee : Ve 7
ee Secret 1412457 i pqtenss 4 4880",

DIR “CITE LEOP 8248

itHRUSH PBRUNEN

REF DIR.QUIS) fe
REF 1p0 USD ADMINISTRATIVE PAY AS CHIEF prot;

st cR eo SECRET - \

FN: 7 as are) cone ate PP A eV E bole “sy lees 7 ie

[eee ECT AR,

Pe ct Wt Daa ER RH Ror he mace Barty dan US Pe soe

_5 MICROFIC!
AO!- 300614.

gael

ra)



i senebhastiti wo
of ‘i " WALLIAM SCOTT PIPER MLD.

2408 Ponce De itow ativan,

const cavers, rtonioe

9 April 1965

TruhioNt
Hicmand 6.476

Mr. Roberto MedeLL
“P.O, 30x 831
Miami, Fla. 33148. i

Ht Re: WHIT=HOUSZ, Eduardo
elias Dear Mr. Medel, - : : ae oie
. Mr. Whitehouse was -eén by ‘me: yeaterday for a ae scaadiasiiniszeadd

a natio: He holds 4 current...
{Glass II medical certificate issued by

me-10"Nov. 1964.

: i sos. Mr._ Wiiltehousé_related-a-history-as-follows:
Rineccaeaniae He.has been out of the country for five months
ae and “had bloody diarrhea’ off and on for 2'months,

He has had sinus trouble with pain and nasal

discharge and: increased symptoms with pressure

changes. His weight loss has been 20 pounds, :
His prostate becane inflammed and tender,

Results of yesterdays ‘shysical exam are as follows:
Chest: Xray was normal and consistant with one taken
at this office ‘10 November 19645 S.E.N. & T. all
normal; Heart ~ normal size, chytha, sounds: Abdomen :
snegative including hernia; Tayroid-- normal; 3lood aa
Pressure 150/104; pulse rate at rest - 74;

lectrocardiogram was within nornal limits; urinaly-s
sis - sug. = neg, alb. - neg. micro. neg.; Sed
Rate Sm/hr.; Hbg. 14 gms..23C 4,500,000 Hac 7,700

diff. - seg. 62 ‘lymph. 31 stab, 4 mono. 3

This patient is at present in an acute Anxiety State, .

““ has acute and chronicesinusitis, and seems to be re-
Sovering fra wnat is probably ¢hronic amoebic dy .
sentary. I found the prostate to be nornal, -
His sinuses were treated with drops and diathermy,
I asked that he keep a temperature chart, Durabdolin
lce was given i.m. and three other medicines were



WILLIAM SCOTT PIPER MD.
2506-ronce ve Leow ates: : .

5, PeOure

const aus

emer eamne = cont'd = 2

WHITZHOUSE, Bdwardo

given to be taken orally for treatment of his sinuses
and his. anxiety state, ce : coe sbsssHarsanasaenananat

today, for another’ simus °
nt. eae of the ‘sinuses, ard he is. to bring
Jin .a-specimen of feces, His treatment should --
“Continue: approximately ‘Two or three times weekly
“until“his ‘sinuses, are clear and medication relieves
“his anxiety state and nervousness.

Thank you for referring this airman,

A

William S, Piper, M:D.

WSP:bk



» one] : _MESSKGE Form >”
+ wit SOD/AB/OPS3

aa
Vi SECRET
vat A475
, OATELG April 1965 DO) fFilt'tv,cs mut:No.

"? ‘WAVE (FOR LORENTZ)

FROM DIRECTOR

oD-& wh pe e maha GF Dimoz,
i as-3
WAVE (FOr ay Sate ;
CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUNEN : : i : a 7 : :

“ADVISE FOLL Ri

99498

1): CONDIT AS: DETERMINED BY PHYSICAL EXAM,

(2) “AMOUNT. BOSPITALIZATION REQUIRED IF ANY,

_(3). RESULTS. DEBRIEFING-IP_ SIGNIPYCANT-

END OF MESSAGE

we MS.
AF/5_

wH/c/M

s Uf 3
4 “p> 4
ps “a a 2
‘2 wre é anes ’
1 DESMOya” FITZGERALD 4a DERNARD J, FIKAN, “ht 7
C/WH arrices, e/son/ a’

avg
. i Sarr | cee
AP O77 torozserion BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE TS PROHIBITED, Coor N.

2ol-3C061¢



< — : >

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE” yorat comves

prin CLO CE DIOLE | as
ar OD-B che

so

ECRE T-€416002
PRIORITY WAVE. INFO DIR CITE LEOP. 8054
CHAPPIE- WETHRUSH: “PBRUMEN

HI TEHOUSE perp ‘LEOP 0321452. MIA VIA ROME LISBON. SCHED~ DPT
ee

oo LTSBON. Paa 255,
SECRET

CFN

ra



CLASSIFIED KESSAOE

SECRET

Feesonomi¥ woTIF AED

ee

“REPRODUCTION PROWIB ITED

™ Lecce pvp ce

ror ae

Sov.

TOeaNCe COPY

i

joe
ECRET 021410Z sestaraes eae:

RIORITY DIR INFO WAVE CITE LEOP 8928

CHAPPIS! WITHRUSH PBRUMEM 2 o. E
REFS? a. DIR-97928 > 7 ;
By Leo 7937-CINY 33 a3)

ale _PER- INSTRUCTIONS REF _ te a ee

RETURNING Nest AVAILABLE. REQUIRES MEDICAL ATTENTION NOT AVAIL-

ABLE LEOP. NALADY DUE CONDITIONS ADVANCED BASES COMPLICATED

: 2 wer

LACK PROPER MEDICAL ATTENTION AND MALTREATMENT. * Yauwet AY Se.
2... PARA 2 REF B REQUESTED AUTHORIZATION RETURN SUBJECTS,

TERUINATION CONTRACT NOT SPECIFIED. RETURN REQUESTED _ iat

¢ :
LEOP CONVENIENCE,. CAN@BONTRISUTE NOTHING REMAINING LEOP. :

DESIRES COMPLETE SIX MONTH CONTRACT TERMS. ;
SECRET * Instructed Leop to terminate Contract the day Subs departs Loop.

crw SECRET

/ aAc/s— Zee bit



By

LLEOVOLDVILLE

"Fees DIRECTOR,

ci Son &

ane

TONER TITS

WAVE (FOR LORENTZ)

ovo AF &, DOF, WHE e, Ve, Fue

PRYGRT

CHARPLE

veo WAVE (FOR LORENTZ)

WITHAUSM PBRUMEN jcdulewte : —_

REP: LEOP 7937. (IN 33942) ee § ee
Dir: 97926

Y.

N.K
ap/COoPs

wepeasine ovsicas

-CONCUR | AEQLESTS PARA 2 REF.
WW EKA CA : :
ELS TERMINATE CONTRACT Dat f-suBs DEPARTS LEOP. sixce

BOT! Cat

|
|
|
|

NARD J. FINAN,
ee

sursearrcerias
eereere

Gircnartces

<



: 20
a
herein and hereby. acknowledge

: Epusane O78 Hes 3
that the contractor, during the term of the agreement consummated
and. terminated

Ty
Wo 1p 1S
, has fulfilled.all such comnitmentd

between us, effective
neers 8 IO

as outlined. and authorized in subject agreement.
Therefore, -in recognition of the good. faith and good will of the

edatraétor: and. the accord and: agreément between myself. and the
eohtractor, with the termination of this agreement, I hereby release

ana forever discharge’ ‘the Contracting’ Officer, all of his agents,

enployees und representatives, from any. and all claims,. demands,

said: agreenent with thie ‘Contracting Officer.
I hereby promise I will not reveal activities, sponsors, or

.
any other information that came to my ‘attention due to the performance

of my duties. during the period of the contract, in writing or any

‘other form, a :
fren 19 lb T i : ell A tok ct, is
“Date ~ Employee ;
LO: Der’
a

Witness

——
: ™. Date aciee

co

—)
aa faeaate



QI

CUSSIFIEO. MESSAGE” roray corres

a 7 Queer

REPRODUCTION PROMIB ITED

‘avOn/umit WOTIFVED

s ee j :
E CRE T 30/0915Z » LRU
; rca 50338
DIR INFO WAVEWCITE’ LEOP. 7937 Ne 4a.
cei
CHAPPIE (ITHRUSH PBRUMEA : :
“NOTIFICATION INTENT TERMINATE CONTRACTS EXPIRATION’ SIX MONTH

OBLIGATION: 30 APRIL} 22 APRILS
-|-26.-APRIL} TED. WHITEHOUSE“(3.MAY. 2

‘2s. WHITEHOUSE INCAPACITATED OVER SIX-WEEKS AMOEBIC INFECTION,
HIGHLY NERVOUS, NO STAMINA, CONTINUES LOSE WEIGHT, REQUEST AUTHORIZE
IMMEDIATE RETURN PBPRIME DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT, INCAPACITATED '

LAME BACK, THREE WEEKS REST PRESCRIBED, NO USEFUL PURPOSE : :

SERVED RETAINING LEOP, REQUEST PERMISSION RETURN. = wee ete en
SECRET fi
CEN”

=)
BL MAR OS
rc: 7

0) PEUTY



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SY SECRET

Toran corse

of Bo. a
REPRODUCTION PROWIB ITE

Befinocts LE Cee ag

me Hite PARE ADP WHE Rms, CoS 3 erha

s f ‘
ECRET 3115057

rr

’
PRIORITY DIR CITE CITE LEOP 1977 hi,

: : ae 3. imsn2e 132
a PPIE vitHRUs# PBRUMEN. |

WORSE. PLEE ADVISE PARA 2 REF. MegaesteD wowit BE PETORWED

a. PBPRIME,
SECRET pees i

weet]:
cFN : - :

)

AO /- Socé ref



.,DIR INFO WAVE CITE LEGP 6136
-QYARPIE WI THtUSH PSRUNEN , :
RERPDIR 74677 i

‘fe LAGK OF Ti 2 FOCUSED BY T-26 CRASH - a
'B, LACT OF SUFFICIENT PERSONHSL ALKGY RAND R, WAILAELE PILOTS .
.."GONSTANTLY REQUIRED IN FIELD, See en

JOR,

G. LACK $ AXD'R FACILITIES. SINCE CRASH NYS 92
_ GAUSE APPREHENSION AND DISSATISFACTIS: ait
Be LENDERS ASSKGNED 18 FIELD BELIEVED. BE9T QUAL IFIEO OF. THOSE,
— AVAILADLES Bene eee! i gig ace

£ Ay 3926 CASTAR

Be T+28 STAN +
T-28 EUNLA : A,
FROM PERFORMANGE TO DATE CONSE
2 CLOSE. SCRUTINY VIEY FUTURE RESPONSIELE ASSI
Hage COROT EXPERTENCE:





oncBAVID ¢.
wir SOD/A3/0PS/3
Bt 7367

"GALA: HOT

aT

10 LEOPOLDVILLE

. fom’ DIRECTOR Peres
saueesenanenT 2 nat 3 SSaBsaEEe

com Soy & wo, WAYE (FCA LORENTZ) DBP, WHeAB, ayy ve,
Bae : eeu J )
10 LEOP cet “FO Wave (FOR LORENTZ), amon ae
Sa SERRA:
CHAPPIE ‘wi THRUSH. PBEIRCST BaLaS_
SREP DER GL 86 Be oe eo oe Bo ee on
Sinise ; ; — DiR-64 4G °
eee es hee guisicr oatzereD 1-6 NOT 1-28,

Oe ca II ee IG AI) AI

mAL auean Prletts Quen Sings TNE TRANSITION
aS SVALAMED Toa Sean, Ado Para Dedew ute,
PB RINE, :

%

sary

i rae ae
7 C/E Mav bY. >

7S if

seceasine onniene
/) RIPRODUCTION 3¥



FRE ad aS ere eee mn nein rire mee oe ee

; isinsin244 44.

: Br 90 - deo Re
LOPENTZ Thy “iy 3955) at Hse He atet oe
UREF AS” YAVE 4730°CPARA 2) - ge Reomudade ade me ket
1 RL LEOP ary 23790): ah \ Lec

_Ts_wuttewoyse ‘ayo[ | Departing pan _ FLIGHT 158 row
17, ETA LEOP 1820 ROV'18, PLS MEET.

2. | JuDER CONTRACT EFEECTIVE 1 OCT 64, THIS INFO FOR screrter
OP OPLY. "PAID SALARY THROUGH EXD OF KOV, AUTHORIZED 15 KILOS -

j EXCESS” BAGGAGE AND. WILL CLAIM UPON ARRIVAL... 0 OTHER ADVANCES, .
Hy TRAVELING UNDER WITH PAPRIME REERTRY
PERMIT, | i eee

3. | BREIFED WOULD RECEIVE LOCAL COKTRACT UPON ARRIVAL.
H RAVE MAINTAINED STRICT MON ODYOKE APPROACH AND SUSJECT COOPERATIVE,
,IWOVEVEP REQUEST HESTON OR REP HAVE FORMALIZED CONTRACT INCLUDING
L;MATARD DUTY “CLAUSE, PREPARED To FATHTATH, ILLUSION ABD ALSO PE-PRIEF

“phoeaL SECURITY: aera Pot
: SECRET woe: —_
I. SSECRET 5 i



pore
borer ne

- Ow Ow "Lassi igo messace

SECRET SIGUE, : R
prreorate LEOP TuFO DIR BRUS CITE WAVE “4885 :
QuaPte EPOITHRUSHDPORUMEN |: Se >
pada a eatalil alae 15t °
ae 7, foreNtz: TOY MIAN SENDS. an Y
ioe tee ° 1.) EDUARDO WHITERIUSE, was puaPosey YeCANCELLED FROM SABENA FLIGHT. :
IAS. ADVISED’ BY SABENA NEW YORK QUOTE To CONTACT CONGO CONSULATE BRUS -
TS es OF VISA. O8:MONDAY, UNOUCTE’. ADDITIONALLY SOMEONE OF AuTHORTEY
“INDEPENDENTLY RESCHECULED sieJect 702 MONDAY DEPARTURE ALTHOUGH ” are oF
treeen IN MIAMI CONFIRMED BRUS-LEOP SPACE ON SUNDAY. '
§ 2+ HOLDING WHITENOUSE NEW YORK PENDING FURTHER CLARIFICATION AND - $
Pp
LEOP.DIRECTION, CAN SEVALIDATE Trove} VIA SAN AM TF ARRANGEMENTS ig a
CAN AE EFFECTED LEO? IN TIME FOR DEPARTURE ON. 17 NOVe .
SE E ic oan Sant
: 3. PLEASE ADVISE. : io
psecaety f /. / Z ee
ie :
J 1
c
S$ : ¢
° °
Y : 7
Y

St1389



a €x ots

MESSAGE FORM 2/ | in Baa

0%: Dave Lamoureux rz

- i
uit, SCD/AB/OPS-3.. ON SECRET {2 ae 1
. BT .7567— XKxo nom rat PISEESE F 2 Pia
oat. 14/11/64 Eine wes meno, 7-124-18/2 ry rh eee

ane iF dea

tO + LEOPOLDVILLE.

fom DIRECTOR :
cos Son rnp wonfsars GAP 4 | Ue Fite
0 ap0P ; ™O ave Gor toner or DAIL DE ;

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH >) PBRUMEN’ -

Dike otis

_REF: | LEOP 4609 (IN 20863)

aguicater ‘AFTER: FULL CONSIDERATION OF POINTS. RAISED In REF REGARDING

uaricaeyet 1 ACCEPTABILITY, HQS DISPATCHED HIM TO CONGO.’ AGREE. THAT : é
BEEN :

DEFINI1E ANTI?ATHY BY PBRUMENS HQS HAS RESPECTED FIELD VIEWS.

Path lene bi ret iEne

HQS HC*EVER DOING- ALL POSSIBLE TO SUPPLY Bist ‘QUALIFIED “&& CANDIDATES,

Foou

ANDTHE PIELD MUST WORK WITH THOSE THAT ARE AVAILABLE, FYI ALL
CUBAN PILOTS ARE GIVEN SINGLE ENGINE TRANSITION AND EVALUATED FOR
FLYING ABILITY PRIOR DEPARTURE PBPRIMZ, TOLD THEY TO FLY AIRCRAFT
ASSIGNED BY SAO, VTE Mees Forte reread Toz7#,

END OF MESSAGE

2 if ie 5 ace WoT eS) hed 4 CHreF Polar Ar TisTine,
sod/ae [ops =

SOD/AB/OPS-3 Pa : 7 _

s i s
oi LZ 7 ; es

SLU Lib a Fa roa

1 ‘AF/COPS : AF/S ~ cy BERNARD J. FINAN, JB.

’ ABS, '

: ; ines oorsceay : 1H Ney

/
iu MURSGOUCTION BY OTHIR THAN THE ISSUING onnick 1s US PROMIDITEO.
: PQ Of RK POTS



IN CONSIDERATION of xy exploynent on tho terms hereinafter set
forth, I, Sdw.nio J. Whitehouse heroineftor callod erployee, horeby
agroe to the following conditions of .umloynent:

1.’ That tho tors "employer" as used-in this agreerent shall
“be the Govérnmont of the Ropublic of tho Cungo, or any, designated
‘ Departzcnt or Agency of said Government, or any Corpany or Agency 4
that the said Governrent may designate. ee

2. That the service to be rendered by the employee under
this agreement is to be an aircraft pilot, with no specific: aircraft
assignmont.s

3. That the tera of em loynent under this agreement shall te :
for a pefiod of ona. = “1 =,year from Yovenfer.1j, 196). During the”
» first ‘91% month, term of this agreesiont, this agreenent may be.
“sbittihatea by the, employer any.time’by thirty - 30 = days written
notice 4 dvange’ to thé imployee. During the last six month tern
“of! this §grochiont;” this skreengnt Pay .kg, tornitated by either the
-erployee or" the. ~omploygrgey- thirty =30. days weitten notice in
edvance 5. the- other pasty. my” & = 6 \ .

Qe That tye onmployée" ‘ahfal be paid tp » all inclusive,
salary of Bight Hundred =: 3800.00- Dollars peg month during the first
six month term of "this acipgnent During the last six month term
of this agreenent,&the oplojée ghalt be paid a basic, all Riysive,
salary of Nine Hundred ~$900;00# ‘Dollars per month. That the omployee
shall be paid og adases ddan 2 tex! -$10.00- Dollars per flying hour:
each month, for fall flying. Hour’ throxcess fof soventy. flying. hours
‘por montft,

Se That, tt ompacva “akcopte the responsibility tel :
payment of A apt eBble tateséon all income earned el

the torms of. Anas’ agreenante
be ‘Tat! engapptoyee shall ve furnished round trips ‘ho ist
class air tyarigpot tat! on costs fron ‘Gani, Florida, tordo; ination,
and return,-and all other exponsos Wiroctly relating to tho travel
involved. In\ghe event at the termination of this agrobyent, the
employea acdepts “omplefzent with an orployor other than the :
Governmont of the Republic “of tho Congo, the return transportation
cost shall not be paid. said employee ie
7. That the erpioyee shall sepettaen wien va following

bonefits during the térn of this agroenent:

a. A.monosary bonefit of $10,000 in the event of his
death from any cause whatever during the term of
this agreement,

poo nuauiry cogwutit = = 't



See eteeeeee eee of Ais death by accidental moans whilo aboard a tested .
eect aireratt while operating in a non war risk area and,
ongacod in the porformance of services under this
_agreerant' PROVIDED death occurs within 90 days of the
‘gccfaent. fee atta

y ditional monetary benofit of $30,0V0 in the event
ROAST by ‘néstdent al moazs while encased in the

- performances: of sorvices under this agreement aboard
an aireraft- being tested as ‘to its airvorthiness or
when the atreraft. is operating 4 ‘ina war risk area,

: @.That cs the event the. “euployee recoives an injury or
jabslity while directly engaged in the performance

sate injary o or disability. i
8s That ‘the employee agrees to ‘undergo a, jnedical examination

within five calondar~ days” after-his returns --—-—- ~~

9. That the employee promise he will not reveal in writing or
| any other. mothod, the activities, the sponsors, or any other facts
that como to his attention by virtue of the performance of services
under this agreement. at

SIGHED AND SEALED DY no this ayn day of foyorbor * 196lt~ :

ACGEPTED at Leopoldvills, the Republic of the > Coney this
day of . ih

Seal-

pe a a a



pat onity. u£o8 sibs PRLORITY DIR BRUS CITE WAVE 4759
LVitwiusn. secua reat PORUAEN

| WETHRUSH. Pivot SCHEDULED DEPART new oR
|ARRIVE ‘@RUS 13 NOV. 6958. DEPART BRUS
TV ARRIVE LEOP 14 WOV'6355. SUBJECT

i POSSESSES PEPRIME ‘MULTIPLE EXTRY PERMIT. CONTRACT EFFECTIVE
i 32 MOy AND ADVANCED ONE HONTH SALARY. . NO OTHER ADVANCES.

: RECEIVED T-6 CHECKOUT. . :
ae 2. EDUARDO WHITEHOUSE WITHRUSH PILOT SCHEDULED DEPART NEW
we YORK! 14: NOV ARRIVE BRUS 13° NOV 8950. .DEPART BRUS —

15 NOV E1eS ARRIVE LEOP 15 NOV 1985, SUBY POSSESSES

PoPRIME MULTIPLE ENTRY PERMIT, CONTRACT EFFECTIVE 13 NGV AND
ADVANCED QNE HONTH SALARY. .NO OTHER ADVANCES, RAPIDLY QUALIFIED

ws AND IRREVOCABLY UNDERSTANDS FUNCTION AS LINE PILOT AND ACFT

TYPE ASSIGWENT FROM CHIEF, PrLoT.
, SECRET

ADSUBLE ACTieed INDICATOR - Gore d



REIS RHE

Hoverbor 12 , 1964

to Waitvhouse Six Hours and Forty Five ieee

I cortity I neve given 3x
(6:45) ainutes of dual: instruction in vorth Anorican AT=-¢D and I found hia to be
proficient and safe in this airemft. « nt ene con
He 4s average in coordimtion ind in sy estimate ais potential ability to fly
tactics is -linitsds aoe ce steieet

I reccoued he should be given two-nore-hours 4n tris aircmaft..

FAA Cel # 1425396

RO/— Bow bry
ICROFICHE



WILLIAM SCOTT Pioza ws
2506 ronce be teow ave.
ConA castes, FLoniog
i 10 Nov. 1964
rruruese
Blan 6.6474 i : i

AE, Roberto MedeLL
P.O." 30x. 831 aesrece
Miani Internationai Airport
ani, Florida 33148

: ie areeiatees : Re: WHITEHOUSZ, ZDUARDO J. . : sy
: : : * Et fi

a Dear Mr.-Medelt, ©” Senin erecta

eee Whitehouse was examined by me today for

routine Federal Aviation Agency Class Ir

Dhysical which he successfully passed and was

issued a medical certificate, '

At your request a Chest Xray and hemoglobin
was done, The Chest Xray was normal and his :
hemoglobin was 16.2 gms. or 104.8%

Mr. Whitehouse was Siven the- follows, inject-

ions: Typhoid-para-typnoid, Typhus, Small-pox,

Cholera and Dipth.-Ter,

Thank you for referring this airman,

Kies T ye

Willian $s; Piper, M.

WSPibic

Se

wRor- 3Gc bi



“ Ptet al) insurance notiete
Pete of

Buardo

ear enatey

in full.

“son to DH notified in

Nasrie Srizelda | ‘Anitenouse
fe

Destenation: of: Renefietary:

Nome Bris Joida ihitehouse _
Re lations
Ailtrase

- gatenhee a : -

Potiey Compa

st TIL & Testament? @:

ves _.
ocation of original: Re Medel _

Copy on file wat

Mave you coupleted Li

enc

041968 ae

Dore Kove



MARPABAM Ft Gtef, Alies Affairs Seats

“TSUMECT 4 Request for Assistacce with

Project wi THRUEH

. 1s The Specie! sperations Mivisiou acd the African :A~tsiar. .
are iktereates i: ottaicin: the sarrices of the: following individuals
for exioynest under Projet ’d] TEIH:

Saxo blo Info

Renentry Pereit

2. Ail nave 734ta,

3. It ts reqoosted that you nake necessary arrangenents with tho :
T @ W Service to facilitate issuance Of the agprapriate docuwe:tation 1
at thair Hiamt Cffice.

Lp Rare Bacey


4. Thank you for your costinved evoperatloe-
ty icor

pistrioution:
Original.& 1 - adiresseo
1 + C/aB/S09
1 = $03/SECUR
1 = 201-701369
1 = 2601-76133
1 © 201-30061h
1 = §03/Ab/9?5-3
1 + SOL/RT

son/az/ors/)xd.Larourewxiat >; (ht Hovenber 1968)

ia a
1 cparaticns Ptvishor |

i
1



—t

was evRANTEY POE! © G1/OA

H

i

i

MTETION ye mane] i : i i
1

cL

i

[

; - SUBJECT : PBY Tragée on 301-7€1343 end 20173006348

: Le The following FEI ‘Reports sere reviesed by
thie office: - es adi

i He A. Ant - Fidel Captre Aetivities,
i dated 12/11/62 ee ;
i

: B.  Yduerde salle 2 Inews, é : i
ie ere ct daaid rae eeenes rec reonseernanerenaa antes. 4/5/€ oe a e :

" No dorocatery Inforration ras founc concerning’.

et This inforastion ss given verbally -
te in your office, on 26-Oct 64. :
i

i Aeting Chief
speehat Grerotions Divisicn

Distribution:
Orig. & 4 = Addressee
1 - C/aB/son
= 201 = 761343
= 201 - 360614
- AB/oPpS/3/SOD
- RI/son

AB/OPS/3/S0D:D,Lannurenx:j Jf, (39 October 1964)

Nev &4

N



Fn inseam “= itene re ee
: AB/OPS, o : O-2C.5-B ra fe :
fiat) Spfaavarays epeet— wees] } ——
: i] Ai. 27 QGtobar 196% J
f i ainces ;

SUBS"S-k2- AUD ‘be tt :
: ee BD cr estas’

_
D Weestanne_srsieen os

pa
&
Hy

if

\

“nbacicron ay Orne THAN THE ISS



{
i

i
!
i

Capt. Eduardo J. el
446 MLB. 39tb Bireot
tian Florida

Dear Captain Whitehouse:

: Thank you.for your views and observations contained
in your letter of 22 October 1964. Your iaterost is
appreciatod.

Contrary to the information on which you base your:
éesire to discuss.Cuban matters, be advisec that this
Agency is not rendering help to Cuban organizations.
Thus it is believed that a discussion of this topic would
not be of benefit to oithor of us.

Thank you again for your interest.

¢

Assistant to the Director

DDP/WH/SA/¥OB/PROP, (28 October 1964)

Distribution: z
Crig & 1 - Addressee 1 ~ WH/SA/ESEC
2- ER 1 ~ OPS/3/AB/SOD
1 - Wi/Registry 1 - WH/SA/MOB/PROP

CROFICHE

2E OCT CY
—<

20/— Seaery



ef (form 772) dated 2_0ctober-1964.-

" [eeucanoun FoR: Chir.

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

201 = 300615

OPS/3/KE/SCD =

“[susaeer

S Insiia, Eduardo J.
Ma andr, Dated

sana « [ REFERENCE:
2 October 1964 crm

‘A Provisions? Operational Approval is granted.for the use of this Subject
as set forth below. - :

Operational Approval issued by.CI Staff srants thé same

for thesuse of an individual as the authority

" Granted th an Operational Approval unless othervise specified by CI/ta. Tt te
based, however, only.cn'prelininary file checks and investigation and is sub.
Ject to a further final: review vhen all investigation 1s completed.

Por. vise as a pilot under Project KITHRUSH, as-set forth in your request
re z

A Provisional
authority, on a temporary basis,

"Please fervard PRQ Part IT.

the Operational Approval, full tnformation (cerpleted PRQ
ed as,.soon as possible and not tater than six
nal Approval will follew <ten all
receipt of snatisfacta:
if use of Subject by interested Di-

To process
Parts I and If) must he sutmitt
(6) months from this date. An Ozerati.
investigation {s coepleted and uron
and IT. Cancellation must be request
visions ceases,

780 Elec B.Sc

APPROVAL

CI/OPERATIONAL APFROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISTO%

SECRET

125 ore rievsous coe



urvivor of the

Tuba. Rlew

Tr Anes

Avril Hee

fer our ie

Ber py

°

SO/- Shab ry



STANT WN ATA AA QE

*

2 UA wwe OSS em Me SEA ee



FBI RESULTS ;
201 ~ 300614 nears c oo

Refer to data-re EDUARDO JULIO WHITEHOUSE INSUA, serit 1/5/60, report dated
plinabcboe aie

12/30/60? : :
"21 October 1964 - ; jour Rowers
poi ame eed ee
Fee
TT ee = —



CLASSIFIED HESSAGE

Rt £2 come LF over

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITEO

‘ADVANCE "COPY.

_ ; SECRET isaimez oie

= | Susckry DIR CITE Pacy 47a1 0° ja neuiiizial
oe i surenGirmon eae to , 3¢

_ Giaaris Ly

/- Be OoG yo



Fi
ij ot 25
tlons. D.Lamouroux: jjf rogESSAGE FORM 75
aust: AB/OPS/3/S0D 2 ney SZ -OR-3-7 H
djon 07367 Ono inex

joam. 13 Oct 1964 TI rne in €$ rat No.

«PANAMA CITY :
Flom DIRECTOR fe SiG CEN
i : loP ve Fitke—————SIE EN
wo WH ZDdL UnbaE 67 ra

\

56647
i bool
ON EDWARD® JULIUS WHITEHOUSE INSUA; CUBAN,
SO ULIUS WHITEHOUSE INSUA,
EMPLOYED ‘i i

‘

END OF MESSAGE

aB/ops/3/son_Q.Q____>
eo oye O/WB/LR/.

STE s ye ote SIE ra ps mp |

JRnto _ eee 7

So °
3 DESMOND FITZGERALD dn BERNARD ‘
4 c/wit i 4
? a
a 2
7 ‘
Ssetnunallae eticese massinany

> ettasiee'o S-E-C-R-E-T lemel teY en] erase

) ae | MICROFICHE

u RUPRCO! queue BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITEO. Crop No



CLASSIFICO MESSAGE eiiteee

17. 1SECRET

Pensou/untt MoTEChED

i oy te

vor Unit
oe aa atte oe

T a91s4aaz
fee

AAP EDUARDO: Fuewas

Lan nt H Overs SU EUH Cw Et,



NQW-OFFICIAL Ci
CONCURRENCE

TERE POPUL AY CHAN ON

PUact OF Bate

CitezenaneP

Uss. RESTOENCE

OVERSEAS RESIDENCE

corey

PRosect

‘Divisvom or starr

[cave ovricee

TATENSION

coe

i

Central Cover Staff con:

requested to advise CCS,

specifically requ

action as ‘appropriate

ran 2208

tn cCS/1

ted to confer with CCS/NC concerning other Ag
possitly affected nnd the advisnbility of additional coordination.

's in your proposal to use subject for the purpose

feated. In keeping with the requirement placed upon CCS to maintain an
accurate register of curr

ronofficial cover activity, you ure specifically
pronptly by memorandum when subject has been

activated. The pseudonys assigned subject should be provided CCS/NC at the

stine.not ifiention: of- activations. forvarded., ..If. notificat{on.of-.activation.
is not recetved in CCS/‘: D
use did not satertalize,

one year frum above date it vill be assumed proposed

here, information of interest concerning subject
files, After ‘cperatt
initial contact. the

2. YS

cy Tee erecta”

If check mark appears kere'the proposed use of subject requires DDP
approval under CST 240-6, para. 5.

Please review CSI 280-6 and initiate

1 approval ts received,



“secret

cere

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

T Oct 1968 pre
 Bo1-300618

10: oPs/3/A8/S0D - D. Lamoureux

Susser

FROM: CEIEF, CI/OA.
(84 Bdward g,

Frou WHITEHOUSE Insua, Bauarto J.

INOROER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATICH MAYBE GIVEN YOUR REGUEST FOR APPROVAL iW THIS CAZE. IT 15 REGUESTEO
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORATION CHLCKED BELOM. CR REVIEW IMFORLATIONSAS. feb tGerts.

f_Starr/o bossie®
PEVICH OF STAFF/D COLLATC@AL ur GewaT ion
REVICS OF SECURITY OFF, REPORT aT CI/Ou
etvite OF stC. OFF. Concue

oy tasers aevita oF Fer eiponr
[atsurs or teewsreai sarcenocation Rivite oF afTachto

[x [ oimas cies Freeney

e260 889 ove 0 8

SECRET z
ROl~Soocsy



moAF 4, DDARW n/sa HeYors, VR FE

INFO. é : enor SY Et
SAA BRIEN

58 BISUA, CIE,

FIELD TRiCES OF EDUARDO JULIUS. UIT:

Tee: 14 sR 1928, SANTIACO, CUBA.

EXSLOYOD BY ACVTAS PAN ATELY ET

faites Gece ’ "MoS" OcT 64
; sonfsr/ors/3 7s i i
4 cere ot
t iiacastucueonea! : a

paiceny ~ netcroprcme-,-
a) asfeees i



T. SUBJECT (THPE NANT

Th ROMAN LE, RS > SU

SECRET.

AME Tay UPPLE CaS
Ce,

Voces

WHITEHOUSE Insua, Eduardo Julius er:
P.TALIASES, VAPEANT SPELLING, CTC mUMEERS, :

REQUEST FOR GREEN LIST
+ NAME CHECK

N® 156220
20-4 196

cate —

3. BATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

_Santiag 20 Guba,

173

ib March 1918
CITIZENSHIP 5
Cutan

So PRESENT ACTIVITY AWD: LOCATION
Puclic Relations Man

Miami beach, Fla.
1 July 196k-present

rth Shore Villas - 6918 Indian Creek Dr.

EXTERS TOW

Pilot

6 CCCUPATTOWAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION .

Ta

ORIGINATING OFFICER

same David C. Lamoureux

‘orf ice orsicsatoe, OPS/3/XB/SOD
foo, eultoisg 2 D 39

7367

13. TYPE OF REQUEST (CHECK ONE)

© First Time suaMitreo

CQ. apoitionar pata

RECHECK FOR CURRENT

INTEREST IN SUBJECT (CHECK OME)
Gl tsPomace on ce activity

CF ovtnarionat cucarance

ntel oF
Insurance Salesman (own

Creek Dr.

Operations Manager - Pilot - for Panaven Airlines
Public Relations - North Shore Villas - 6918 Indian

po:
business)

Miami Beach,Fla

Jul 1 64-present

‘B. OTHER SIGNIFICANT OATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) — ADD EXTRA SHEETS WwAES NELDED
"Took part in invasion to Cuba in 1961 as pilot.

THeiGaTy
e. geyy

‘OE DESCRIPTION

Tat enrT

160+

Teves)
- Blue ©

(Hatz)

Blond.

(race)
White

{orner)

Brigeida Whitehouse

40. SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIve MAIDEN NAME]

Ti. OTHER HEMBERS OF ImeO)

‘Cy Tagua”

TE FAMILY AND ASSOCIATES
dL. Whitehouse

12.

INFORMATION REQUIRED (DEFINE SPECIFICALLY.
NOT FULLY MEET REQUIREMENTS,

INSERT CARBON; FILL OUT. FORMS couptereti,
SEND BOTH SHEETS To FI/D. -

secret (ty

GENERAL TERNS SUCH AS “CEFGGATORYT MAY RESULT IW A SCARCH THAT OES

SEE CSI

S$

re

Gl B60 IY

Jan 1 gun 1 ay



Lee, EE

\
\

FROM: //0" RR :
(wR
4, [7] see oossiee ov sesue

(7 ¥ttm tme Limite testis ication provines ae THe 8teutst, F179 18 unaEL

SUBJECT APPEARS AT a La)
AVATUABLE.

(
N
‘ D. [ROGER] F170 was no earinear

CE tN FED B1oseaPHiC FILES.

A -XEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.

SETERMINE WHETHER THERE 1S 1AFOSWATION. ABOUT THE SUBJECT O8 NOT.

SSMATLON OM SUBJECT, IF INFCSMATION ABOUT THE

* B. (T] e suaseer of twis eepeesr 1s APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE. FOLLOWING:

ER QATE, IT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU AS IT BECOMES

ws

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT 15 89 Lew
NOTICE COMPLETED, SSZULD BE SENT To F1/D.

Rev ied vou Five *OF tatse suet is’ Facgut wreys-aNa"sean'TO-FI/O-THE-Sit
A OF SUFFICIENT INTESEST To o€
FACILITIES MITM COMTINIING SEARCHES FOR INFIS¥ATION THAT 15 NOT REQUIRED.

IMPORTANT TO YOUR oF

A CONTINGING NAME CHECK. PLEASE D0 NOT THE UP FIM

ICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION

FOR, PERSONS. THAT, ARE NO.

NAME

Roem, suiting
EXTENSION

OFFICE DESIGsaTOR

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST
SECRET



REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

(Aleaya Bacdearty Vo eagr of thes form) 2 19
PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTIO% 4ND APFROPRIATE BLANK 2 Ot 1964
Al [ 7
TOr Jcriopemar 1ONaL. APPROVAL 4ND EuPPaRT DIVISION FROM? nid C. Lamoureux
pate OP3
itt TRENTO RT oOo] 8/3/s8/S00
« [fewters Pimsonnet Secuity ON ISIEN, GFFICE OF STCURITY : :
‘SUBJECT: [ee ara
[ : “aUSH
(reve WHITEHOUSE Insua, Zduard Julius
cavptonrw, escuoduvw, aE TW at tases Ch/Om FILE nO.

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED
Papvisiowat &

PROVES sONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROVAL

‘secunity
nova,

wa

PPROvas

[eonteact tre a
2, SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

Fut. Ocraiis oF use

“

U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN OUBING IMVESTIGATIONT

CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING InvEsTIGATY

Cs SS SUBJECT AWARE OF 3.5. GoveRnweNT rercecsT IN MIM?

OF CHA InteaesT in wi

©. 15 suasect

INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS OW COvesAGE is THE INVESTIGATION ‘Or suBseeT:

None

AUCcEST “COVER, PREFEXT* TO AC USED IN CONCUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

Trin? oF aetwcy pe cove!
Ly,

Do you Plan TO MAKE SusateT
NO IAVESTIGATION OUTSIDE Cla. EarLal®

MENT INTEREST Ls

3. PR] AND GAFEN List STATUS”

oma 1 OF TOUIVALERT. IW UH) COPIES aTHaECED X [eco ss ene ee
Ge EQUIVALENT, Im (9) COPY aFtacnes EX] cacen cist artacwee, no: 150219

fi traces
[Jone reruns: [now ocaccatonr Denocatony ATTacnte
2 7 Division T8Aces
[no necono To Jeree roeeess T[nov-ocnccatowr WH | DEROGATORY aTTaCaed,

e. FIELO TRACES

@Caa30

[xo cesocatoey swe. WAVE
List souaces entero it
Mer tuitiaten (Erplone
AaSATUAC oF Case orricen
J Davs

Fe 772 siete

AIT LCanE tyrcnwstion ATTACuEO

Porasies

SECRET Bore Beceny



Rae tne.
5 Sune 1
‘ arse 23. Cirontce sanitat srarus [| :
é = = Csixeue 5i
foe pacsent ota 5
Sats azoness Se ert) a :
Cencaceo
: PERWANENT. ie Swisowes
: Covercea

j PLACE OF Bint ate

Sant
Cae | COUBTEKION

Oseranateo

Date oF issue Dec, 32 1
KIND OF PasspoaT *

vauioity pzaos TY
NATIONALITY: | HAS YOUR PASSPORT EVER
E Gino. uF answer

‘ee SES Go ee ae ale rey =
S0UCATION: NAME ANO LOCATION OF 5
oisieel dena eEa TEER | Gals cogs:
OMI Re SCHOOL aa —

calf: ort.

: a

couece

TRAzE, business OA |
CoRsEiPONDEnce. |

SPEAK FLUENTLY?
B.S. wiTARY
SEAVICE (BRANCH

cas OS ware

Bagsen? w
RATIONAL,

SmiP oN
ARO.OA- RESKAVES._

THES OTHER THAN RELICIS:
(EAS ATHEET.C. PRAT eeNEL
PREVIOUS ADDACSSES OURING Past TEN YEARS

Dares

T
stacer ‘ CITW/STATE H countay

SP2VEE WNCUGEE Fiance AnD AGEL ~ Chi DREN

yews, TE Sate oF

(COnTimUED Om OTmER SIDED "RO BAS Gig



TTSATER OF CuPc eEn?

TENAET FiF ce OF YOUR PE

X row: j Toeaesenr rine | FARTING St my Pca ve.
anne | | Eptise malesicne [rian € oUe Pca va,
6032 acetate ay
Promote business
SDC OATES OF CuPLOYmERT wort, 1 << TS EXACT TITLE OF YOUR POLITION | SALARY GA EaAnInGE

S rmom: * > to: se ARTING § oy -

: 1-12-63. | W1-6h ‘sre STARTING 8 75 Pen va,

A femac 6 SAN PER YR.

F YEUR POSITION | SALARY OR EARNING
{STARTING 5

beg

Politics

Airline PLYot

NAVE YOU EVER BEES DISCHARGEG OR FORCED TO HESIGN FOR MISCONDUCT OR UNSATISFACTORY SERVICE FROM ARY POSITION

REFERENCES.
DEFINITE INFORVATICN REGARDING YOUR CRARACTER AND A:

LIST FIVE PERSONS, NOT RELATED TO YOU BY ASOD CA KARMIAGE, WHO ARE PART!

Let, 23 NOT

UP ANSREA 1S YES" GIVE FULL DETAILS: some ves 9
‘

NAVE YCU NOW OR EVER MAD ANY PRYSICAL OA MENTAL DEFECTS OR CISAU:LITIES WHATSOEVER?

Give FULL DETALAS: ves

AVE -VSU EVE™ SEEN ARRESTED GH DETRINES BY ANY POLICE GW WILTE ANY RUT HERTVY IF ES NAUE TRE ARRESTING AUTROATIY ‘i
GIVE TIME, PLAGE AND REASON FOR SUCH ARREST OR DETENTION, ANO THE DISPOSITION OR COURT ACTION, a

ves
Tos aPeuice Fon
pilot? uae eutin MINIMUM ACCEPTABLE SALARY) PER YR.

BLARLY GUALIFiEZD TO SUPPLY,

ferry



$04 ventoneved :

the ill-:

es invesion te usa



NAM; WHITE:

JOR: Pilot

it 2e1-N mM.

CoNUY 3:
SONU Serer arenas ssa ean ESC TUE
POAR WSfzD: 2 Ort 196 ;

GREEN LIST RIQUESTET: 2 Oct 1964 :
- = REPR C23 asQuestEM: 30 Sept 1964

MLTR ces AcTuRNZD: PE ND Oct ly

No Brreg Fert Fo pe wave 2530

"oa MICROFICHE

ROr-seeby O


esioriety OTHER CRE!

eat.(3y type) r
pier (Sy Tyse)

Crete

20

ipa Setection of an saplicent may well be iniwes. 7
feceived.. To essist in evaiveting your ov.

yeu endeavor to suamit
| he zest three
rosters,

tery evidence, in @ thorcugh end ce?:
yest pated. (This information mey be sebautiad sa the f

a of natar2ed sre

3g te be bened ot eny stane.

grscreficn ef the Consens? - Yen SOND

Feasersteng tnst mitre; -osontstion of omission of iscte requested is couse far casmianaly

Bervenrss
. ee as

a Cr— fot érg -

