{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

104-10167-10377]

: BeTurs. a
Sselrona eM
~ Not Reproduce” i
suis . !
7 iste
a = Cuil

12 duly 1961

t
i

MEXQRASDUK FOR TSS R2CORD

SUal=cT: Contact with Sr. Mantel Antonio DB VARGKA
i duly 1961

1. In respmse to a call to Sender fron VARGA, the undersigned
calted TAROMA 11 Jey 1961 at the Roosevelt Hotel, iashington,-D.C.,
Rom 707, and iz the courses of the coaversation Ti204 brought. up
the following pcints: i

a. The problen of the ragistrates. : He
. b. The robles of T2Is0mZN. : :
¢. The preblex of three of the prisoners fran the Pa
invasion force sho are in the United States in comection
oO with tr gotizticns and who, Sr. /i%ta stated, |
Ww are "stranded? at the larriott Motel. WARCWA wold like |
31,000.00-$1,500.00 to send. these three nen to New Zork
and back to isci in comection with their efforts.

2. 7aeta j

VARA referred to a pian to send three Cubans, in
cisding a labor leader, on an anti-CAST20 mission to Latin America
at a cost of abest $5,500.00 for each erson. also referred to
“aq the reported rracises of suppert for binself and his faznily, referring

3 to Foci}, larry and "gencer® as ta had guaranteed the:
Ku Eh Ee SS | :

3. JA2CHA'S approach on the matters of the magistrates and

oe TRESCIEN was the sare as that taken by H1R0.

4

5
A, Either throvgh ARGH or MIRO, or both, 74R0X4 ‘mows of 2

and

ESCM INO ranencansaninnn corettg ee teen mec

Contact between the undersigned as xaynond S. Glark and HI20

=

