# 104-10273-10311

## Page 1

1104-1023-10311

rE 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ĐP E

82 o3 sà

Ф351

18028 1. in end Signon in 11.

Instructions lo, Divisions and Stolls:

2. Use boch of lom for ony oddiional commenis.

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION

(Circle il appropriare) 130 CHARACTERSI

MONTH

FORM

LETTER

Jun 76

AIAGRAM

FROM/ORIGINATOR I3O CHARACTERSI

DC| See Analpis Group - Brown

CLASS

WHERE LOCATEO (10 CHARACTERS)

REFERRED BY 110 CHARACTERS)

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)

c/ Sec Analysis Group

DDO?

DO FILE NUMBER 120 CHARACTERSI

SUBJECT (8O CHARACTERS)

Hemming, Gerald Patrick

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

Determinations:

A.

Release

in full text

B. Release in sanitized form

C.

Deny in toto

D.

Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DEFER DEOSION TO 110 CHARACTERS| COORDIMATE WITH (10 CHARAGTERS)

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

DATE •

OF

REVIEW

E. Sustain initial denial in toto

F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

_ G. Release additional information

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (10 CHARACTERS)

FOIA

81 B2 B3 BA B5 B6 B7C

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

1. Classification

2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3. Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify the

source

5. Information pertaining to a source

6. Information pertaining

to intelligence methods

7.

Location

of CIA overseas installation

8.. Location

of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9. Name of CIA employee

10. File number

11. Pseudonym

12. Cryptonym

13. Internal organizational data

14.

Name

of an FBI agent

15. FBI file number

16. Privacy of other individual

17. Does not pertain to request

19. Other (Specify in line 1l)

REMARKS IF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE: (40 CHARACTERS)

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMS/FPLE REVIEWING OFFICER

Е.0. 12356

FOlA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(k) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j)(1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(6) 17) (0) 1j) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

F

RENLONS 16: FHAFLITERE

Hall, Davis et al; 3 Oct 77-9 Jul 59

* 51; 3

• GERALD

PATRICK HEMMING

hi Tremo Unriosgifted Unless The Closingeror is Checie

aformor o- belon is comple'es

---

## Page 2

13-00,00

L2312320

OHLY

BOUTING ANO RECORD SHEST

Cong ciTal

SaCRaT

HENNING, Gerald Patrick

ierry G. Brown

P.puty

Chief

Security Analysis Grop

¿sene porgention, nom nuriore, aris

•*.

EXTENSION.

4400

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO

429 229

11 June 1976

COMMENTS (Numbar paci commane 19 199e iogo wham

Dega a lina acrosa coiuma pier tiei canmani.)

4/5.10

RECEIVED

DATE

iO 12010 |

il fine 16 B313

1620|9

3:

d.

Bine thile

7.

301376

1/21123

?.

T.

2.

3.

÷.

I COMFIOENTIAL

INFERMAL

ife

ONLY

---

## Page 3

13-00000 •

11 June 1976

MEMORANDUN FOR:

SUBJECT

Chief, Security Analysis Group

SF 1429 229

Gerald Patrick

SF# 429

On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HENMING.

referred to the writer,

who is holding the HEMMING

contacted the

writer,

I advised that ha

is the áction officer

for a cable from

the Guatemala Station

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

Iwas unfamiliar with

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

was requested to alert

and JArAVE

to the below-mentioned

and to provide

writer with a

copy of the report coming in

from the Guatemala Station.

"provided the writer with a copy of the cable

(IN 944357,

idated & June 1976),

which is attached.

In substance, the cable reflects that

•circa 8 June 1970 a Guatemalan source, with the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD,

provided the Guatemala Station

report;

and a detailed brleting

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

concerning

According

informa-

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

• one of the major conspirators,

''Colie" ZIMERT Safie left Guatemala in August 1975

of an attack upon his, ZIMERI's, life... ZIMERI has been lIvIng

in Miami since August 1975.

According

the National Liberation

Movement was involved with ZINERI

to the report'in the assassination plot

ZIMERI in turn was

involved with two Americans,

brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

The HENNING brothers

ascisted ZINERI in acquiring arali aircraft.

among other things, which

were flown to Guatemala in

The report also

claims that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials

in Miami and New Orleans.

E? IMPDET

CL BY 063991

19028

---

## Page 4

13-00000

NOTE: The Guatemala Station also included

information the Chief of Station had received

fion

÷031

-Oll 8 juno.

19). said thai lie

had been providing information on ZINERI to the

Guatemalan governnent for the past six months or

He claimed

that two Americans were involved

ith ZIMERI, one

in Miami.

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4. The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c.

Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-.

tial treatment by U. S. authorities which

permit him to carry

firearms,

as well as

to purchase arms

and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?

e. Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

On 19 June 1976

advised

that. DO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State.

•Department.

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HENNING.

alleged employment,

mployment, this apparent that perald Patrick HaNG

is identical with the subject of Office of Security file

who 23 a

who has been described as six-foot five,

250 pounds,

notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and

of May 1975 was

ostensibly employed by a private investigation

Miant, Florida.

TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

---

## Page 5

13-00,000

SAGART

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known

to this Aganey,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JiltAVE.

lad claimed Agency affiliation when in fact there

begi

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING clained such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement: Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMINC

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),

Frank FIORINI,

of Watergate notoriety who also has a

long-time record of falsely claiming Agency affiliation.

the late 1950's HEMNING and STURGIS,

both former U.S. Marines.

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionnent with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he naned the International

Anti-Communist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"

(the backers. of whom have never been fully established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HEMMING, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandum, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jü.;

and an extract from a book published in early 1976 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John F.

book Coup detai

is a diatrine against the

to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY.

One of the major

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

•JI. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to. Loran Eugone

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

thereafter dropped his interest in HALL LEMMING and

interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISON's investigation.

Jerry G.

Brown

Deauty Chief

Security Analysis Group

AIts

---

## Page 6

13-00000

CiLY

POUTING AND RECORD SHEST

SECRET

Р1. (Opens)

HENNING, Gerald Patrick

•jerry G. BrOwn

Aputy Chif

Security Analysis

Group

OATE

EXTENSION.

NO.

4+00

OrFICER'S

INITIALS

429 229

11 June 1976

COMMENTS (Number soch commere l9 irge ines whom

so whom.

Dega o line across coiuma nicer tici cammant.)

1/5.46

RECEIVED

il first.

Bive Hole,

7.

P0I3AG

16|20123

?.

10.

11.

12.

i3.

13

CONFIOENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

---

## Page 7

13-00000

11 June 1976

MEMORANDUM. FOR :.

Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

HeMMING,

SF#429

229

Gerald Patrick

On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HENMING.

Iwas referred

writer,

who is holding the HEMMING

writer,

" advised that ha

is the action officer for a cable from

the Guatemala Station

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

I was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

i was requested to alert

and JAVAVE

to the below-mentioned

and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report coming in from the Guatemala

Station.

provided the writer with a copy of the cable

(IN 944357,

¡dated 8 June 1976),

which is attached.

In substance, the cable reflects that

ciica 8 June 1976

a Guatemalan source,

with the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the Guatemala Station

and a detailed briefing,

concerning

-to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

According to

informa-

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

1975; however

of an attack upon his, ZIMERI's, life.

ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since August 1975.

3. According to the report, the Natinal Liberation

Novement was involved with

in the assassination

ZIMERI in turn was involved with two

Americans,

brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. The HENNING brothers

assisted ZINERI in acquiring arms

among other things,

were flown

to Guatemala

small aircraft.

The report also

claims that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials

in Miami and New Orleans.

E?

IMPDET

CL BY 063994

19028

---

## Page 8

13-00000

6239

NOTE: The Guatemala Station also included

information the allen of station had received

said thai lo

had doen providing information on ZINERI to the

Guatemalan

governnent for the past six months or

two Americans were

involved

me did not mention names butted

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4. The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests

for information by President LAUGERUD:

a ..

Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatenala.

C.

Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-.

tial treatment by U. S. authorities which

permit him to carry firearms, as well as

to purchase arns and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

•variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

physical description,

alleged employment, it is apparent thee cerald Patrick HadiNG

is identical with the subject of Office of Security file

429 229,

who has been

described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,

a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who

ostensibly employed by a private

investigation

сопралу,

TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Miami, Florida.

11- CIA Chindee

(''- CiA comparcal"

2

33670

---

## Page 9

13-00000

Gerald Patrick HENNING is well known to this Ageney,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JwAVE.

lage me carly devo's.

End claimed Agency affiliation when in fact there has bea;

none.

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such

affiliation

was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug

Enforcement: Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMINC

is a long-time

cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),

aka:

of Watergate notoriety who

long-time record of

Frank FIORINt falsely claiming Agency affiliation.

also has &

In

the late 1950%g HENNING and Stu, be form us. Marines:

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionnent with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he naned the International

Anti-Conmunist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this

"Brigade"

(the backers. of whom have never been fully established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan

governnent expose of this assassination plot

involving HEMMING

, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandum, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT,

and an extract from a book published in

early 1976 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

The book Coup d'etat

in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John F. Kenncuy

is a diatrihe against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY.

One of the najor

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

Interesting that he dio attendered Patrick end di

interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISON's investigation.

Jerry G. Brown

Deyauty

Chief

Security Analysis Group

Arts

---

