{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

104-10225-10005|

- Ht SECRET

Enon Falted fod

RUPLOVEE SPRIAL NOUOFR

025658

GENERAL
iaadiey 4. DATE oF BinTH

S... 8 Dec 1935...

1 GS-8
1 OFF Sovran GF ASSIOWMEST CONANT TFAN TON

DP/SAS/CI_ Awashington, D

»C.

[arecian (recip
TH, OATE REPORT OUE IN OP.

SECTION & PERFORM)
Week Performance ranges from wholly. inadea es thon patlsfoctory, A rating in this category rec
Sealtive remedial action. The nature of the ot rage irom counseling, 20 further walning, #0 placing on”
probation, to Ament of to seperation, Describe action token of proposed in Section C.

factory and 18 characterited neither by deflelency nor

wats: tele ontively

1 requir

A+ Adequate — Petloimence’ mer

oncellone
P+ Proficient Performance Is more than satisfactory. Des
Portermance Is choractertied by exceptional

ult ore being produced In 9 proflelent manner.

ey.
int of the work end In comporlaon to the performance of

pocific duties partorme
‘ACH specific duty. 1
on thelr ability to super

Listup to ate-of the mé
_ [meaner te which omplo;
with, supervise

BORE DUTY HO.

Serves as SAS/CI operations officer handling a former Cuban Intelligence
officer and a Cuban translator - SW

wating
Cerren

SFRCIRIE DUTY wo
Servesas SAS/CI operations officer responsible for the direction of a

; Cuban double agent now inplace inside, s >
SR ae ais :
Responsible for contacting, assessing aad debriefing, in Spanish and :

: English; prospective Cuban CI assets. s

Pan

a

Tracie DUTY Ne
Prepares pertinent operational and ‘administrative correspondence in
connection with tho operational duties outlined above,

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 8

sPacinic DuTe NO. © airing
eine Ov ; Cerras

particular lmitetlone or re ee
Slog the lerter in thy reting bes corresponding ta the atetement Thick most ocewer {

E8IM 45 001

vious enim. ~ SECRET



SECTION C

Mr. Piccolo, a8 an-iitelligence assistant, has performed exceptionally
well-in.an operational assignment that would normally be carried out by an
operations officer of higher grade and greater experience, He is calm,
agreeable, cooperative and imaginative, and has displayed maturity and good

He also has the ability to think

judgment in-handling his assigned dutics.
logically and ‘fast in difficult and embarrassing situations, and his fluency |

in Spanish has“been of considerable help in-enablng him to handle agents
and prospective agents whose English {a either Himited or negligible, He
fe leaving the Branch because of his acceptance as a candidate in the

piunlogzOllicer Training Program,

MAIL ROOM:

z
€
a
Fa
Frey
a

w
Ss
we
3°
ire

.

s

tite CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS:

T CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A

j : p
quiet oate Ngnstune or euptovie, 7
ies Q, ey Ie eb Pt

(W SHOWN TO EuPLOVER, O1VE EXPLANATION

WON THE EMP LOVER was beEN j Teas REBORT Wad WO
Uncen wr suremvinon eerie eeerer ete

6 months

ANB SigNATURE

SFT WI OF HaPERION CLP rae

C/SAS/CI/Operations _ S>hichard M, Tansing

‘BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

omer y; =e hy Prise hw be

ack a pred me —

GLa: hake plas pm.
. Wii. Fh Se

olde fe.

vd of Le
SPP EIRT TALE OF Wa viA ING OFFICIAL Tint pret
C/SAS/CI |“ Harold F, Swenson

SECRET

Lh thane wn wbligise

aad

2 eer ec ap
