# 104-10216-10195

## Page 1

104-10216-10195

-

ia."

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

.

SECRET

file

5 May 1964

:..

ARHORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJBCT

REFERENCE:

81lencer for the FAL Automatio

B1s10.

: 5 May 1984 Conversation botreen

Hestor Sanchez and the undersigned.

1. On 5 Hay 1964 Hr. Falter Erhardt of 'IsD was called

and a request for FAl silencers was nade with the followin

specifications:

1. Three pere needed on a crash basis.

2. The silencer, 11 possible, was to be designed

in such a manner that it

could be adapted to

any standard FAL automatic rifle (light barrel)

eithout modification to the rifle itsell.

9.

In addition to the above three silencers ISD

was to check the ease and cost of procuring

25 to 50 such silencers.

*. The silencer In addition to l1mfting the

explosive noise fros firing mould also have

to oliminate the sonic boom connocted with

the standard FAL round.

Furthermore, this mould

have to be done through the silencer

1tself

rather than through a new type ammunition for

the FAl that had a muzzle velocity less than

the speed of sound.

2. A preliminary report vas received fron TSD the

afternOOn of 5 May 1984 stating the 101100108:

1.

Things looked hopeful, and a detailed preliuinary

report would be forwarded to the undersigned

prior to the close of business 8 May 1961.

SEGRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

- 4 тт 9-

SECRET

2. It appeared the silencer vould be a unit

that would include both the silencer par so,

and a rifle barrel (this vould 81t a

standard FAL autonatic rifle - light barrel

miei, sodsiled to reduce the muzzle velocity

of the standard lAl round to less than the

sood of now, the lame me mone

3.

This project, 11 successiul, v1ll provide &

sllencer that can be used on any standard

YAL AutOmatIC FIllo (light barrel).

continue to fire & standard PAl round with a

Bflencing effect that vould ellainato to the

barest minimun, both the noise fron the

explosion of firing the bullet, and the 1018e

created by a bullets muzzle volocity that 18

greater than the speed of sound.

C. I. Hicks

C/WR/SA/HOB/PH

SEGRET

8:2?.1.98 1s

cariceita

---

