“"fo4-10218-10099| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 t

- ee - ----..- ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Acceasi

Ornces's
Duras

Comments

Verb Urprrral
re Vn Oden, Ufor | i

: sae oe gdm :
Please draft cable t..station and coordinate with
Dick Rastetter + mei ff : Ee

"Eqs. has no objection use subject to contact Amourette
Due-presert-—ef tuat{on-Anourettent y-cuggest-station
use-Gilabdtecretion-tireontesting-Anourette-10-4f-
{ such. 4s-felt. necessary-to-naintain-iatterg~interests
Each comment should be number 4°” Snggost contacts be kept 69 minimm during”cooling off
A line should be drawn across shé = period “unt revlecement arrives,

Officer designations should be use : ED ter

Each officer should initial (check } &« OFA Il C ay
Action desired or ection taken she - = ¢ 2.

Routing ‘sheet should always be ré 5

For officer designations see separa

gence


SECRET.
ROUTII.G AND RECORD SHEET

Acceesiom Xo. ASO)
Date Received SA

Couuenre

Verbal Uyrrorel
a. Wn Oden, Ufo |
Av It Sepb 350 -

A :
Please draft ceble ti station end coordinate with
Diek Rastetter ¢

"Hs, has no objection use subject to contact Amourette
B, Due-presont-oftuation-Anouretto-d, cuggest-station
: on-tr-eontecting-Anourettex10-4f-
puch ie felt nessosery to-neintede-latterts-interesty
Each comment, should be number 4°! soggest, contacts be kevt $9 minimum during“cooling off
Aline should be drawn across she period “until revlacenent arrives. .

i Officer designations should be use ’ EIA tor’

; Exch officer should initial (check } oO I C Zal
Action desired or action taken she - 9 ¢ 2.
Routing sheet ehould always be re ot eeeeceeeeeeececst

t For officer designations seo separa :

om eo .! st ed as be
coluintisedecea! Der /orrel

.
4



10. .

DIRECTOR

~ pRROM HAVANA 7 re

ACTION: = WHS a
NFO + Ch, Ci/oPs, ci/oa, FI/RI 2f PP 2, PP/oPS, S/c 2

Lynd ARE

IN 4B8Lg5

i DIR nee: CHE HAVA g16

RE PARA

rerREQuest APPROVAL _USE_ARTHUR G. VAIVADA
i AS CONTACT AMOURETTE 8, AMOURETTE 19 IF NECESSARY, AND OTHER
KUCAGE ASSETS AT STATION DISCRETION PENDING REPLACEMENT
GALLEGOS. WOULD NOT INTERFERE WITH HIS KUTUBE DUTIES,
END OF MESSAGE
C/S COMMENT: STATION COULD PROVIDE CONTACT FOR AMOURETTE=B AND POSSIBLY A ON

if INTERIM BASIS,
‘
| Z
~
BRT cout dese |
CS COPY |
, : mae 40 ST, |
ae SECRET Peece
we tty REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. Ore Ne,

26/-168 Sy.

eee CO



70 Chief of Station, Habana es? 12
mom Chef, WED GamEaniel

GENERAL

Operational
iia sonnet one C drtar Gram
Referencat HKH-U-2268, 22 Yay 1957
Aakion Resoimed: For Subject's Informtion

Endject's contract dated 1 August 1934
es folloves

oa 08 amended,

WSs a3y

27 duly 1957

J.C. KING /7
Distribution: Chief, WHD

i 1-RI
t l= wy
1 r eieagcate/ Carano Wi/121/Cube /HOMaekuley/r8

» Le Suhtant

[ = | es



i
via: Air Pouch otspatcH No, __TRS~A-347 H
Teiry ard On Bta POUCH H

HOR}
CLASSIFICATION
To + Chief, Foreign Branch T bate:_____20 “ay 1949 : |
FROM =: Chief of Station, Ssn José, Costa Rica

SUBJECT: Genera. OPERATIONS
sreciric. Request for Project autborizatica

REFERENCE: TZP-W-411 ; {

1. Authorization is hereby requested for the project described -
below, whick we plan to initiste on 1 June 1949. In view cf
the comment contained in psrégrarh 2 of referenced Communi-
Cation, we ere assuming that ccmzencenent of this project co
@ simple exploratory basis hes already teen eppreved by hesd- !
Quarters. ho further ccnmitzents, other thea those described H
below, will de made. :

A. Objectives : '

(1) Cutout services, es suceested by heedquerters, ~ :
g in an effort to test Sudject's abilities.

(2) As a basie end continuing assignment to permit Ht :
and enccurege develoznent cf Sudject's best
locel contacts es we°i as in the hope of filling i
8 long-felt need in cur operationel betiern, he I
will be assigned to the general topic of labor; i
specifically, communist penetretion of local '
Aon-communist labor groups end theoretical

: developments which sre of interest regardless.

\ of group designation. 5

.

to possess an unusual eppreciation for cperational

ways and meens, which is seldcm encountered.

For this reeson, none of his assignments will

be exclusive, end he will be encoursged to follow
, up such leads end opportunities as arise in the |

1
(3) Subject appesrs to be @enuiceiy interested end : |

course of his daily occupations regardless of
: any objective :

INDEX

ave teay SU-88

and target assignnents,

i


THS-4-347. ae
Page 2

} B. Targets .

(1) Subject will cczzence by serving as cutout for
Hugger, who has @lways held out creat promise but
never been properly developed or directed,

) In the labor field, the principal end only target
fat the moment is the only lebor federation, the
‘Rerum Novarus,

te

i (3) Subject will represent our cnly contact among the
student groups sad certain allied "intellectual"
societies. Any setivity in this category showing
Promise ‘may subsequently become en assigned target. ‘

C. Cryptonym end Essential Data _cn Personnel

The designation “Hydropathic", heretofore applied to
subject individual, is hereby discarded. He will
a be designated by San Jose Station Symbol

29. For essential deta on Personnel, see TZP-A-365, . i
end II. : H

D. Control and Contect

Judging by Subject's background data and hig elreedy

i denonstreted cooperative attitudes, we do not feel that
control and direction of his activities will be any
Problem. Centect, owing to the nature of this project,
will be frequent end carried out in any Convenient
manner, generally in oe or the other of our respective : 7
homes, i '

BE. Cover i“ :

i
|
i Subject had planned to and has established himself in H
| Costa Rica for entirely Personal reasons, prior to any ce i
E Contact with this office. He has a Costa Ricen wife,
| attends the university, end lives a Perfectly normal
i life which eny assign=sats from us will net disrupt.
Our only enticipated problem is that of mutine Contacts
between Subject and the Chief of Station, at. matter
will be handled with cere and atecretion. PE OEP ay
H Be

' F. Cost ae i L7ED

Fuld $299
| Subject hes agreed to serve for a selery equivalent to’
f $50.00 per month, to be Paid in Colones. To offset
é

this expense we plan to dispense with the services of

Hucklebone who is Presently receiving $400.00 Per xonth.

: é 2 ggapciTh



iessstentssisitives seetieciasiieet G. Timing end other Factors ~ icsesbeietesstiice ear ustesicei ott

Our preliminary interviews with Subject lead us to :
: believe that he will be the interested and relis ble '
7 Americen cutout for which this station hes long felt
a need. His grestest virtue in this respect appears- . ‘ i
to be an understending of operational methods end an is ‘
eappreciaticn of relative valws with respect to infor-
mation. It 1s hoped to make this a permanent project,
i but our plens and our srrengements. with. Subject are as niye
fi considered to be probationary, dependent entirely
upon his development and future usefulness.

BelV ue Ss

Elmer C, Mercer



VIA: ATZ_F abe] EGOS DISPATC
eee TT

CLASSIFICATION.

To : deting Chief, Pot DATE:=<4:}loverber 1948: =

FROM : Chicf of Station, Panara Ci Paera.

SUBJECT: cesrea- | Operations. ” Slee istthscatce.aettsantied
speciFic.  Opcrational Nata AeTe PART I

85 Part I is KYLKCFATHIC.

1. The subject of TZP=1-

2. Subject is best qualified to serve as a cutout in handling inforrants. He
has had experience alon: these lines in oultivating and collec! forna-
tion fron the following individuals: : i

Covernzent Orpositionists:

EL
Lr. José Percy | :
Lie. ancePyeik Lendes!
Eng. Luis 4 rd buat
Of, Isis PIAS, ‘

°°

! Gevernsent Supporters:

Lic. lemetri ee

: Lic. Alberto MmisaLLg — j |

i Lie. GenerosolSi20: 7 ;

i . : j
As'a result of the recent neeting between r C, LEXCEK and Crover J. al !
MABTEG, Subject has been recruited for the specific task of actinc as & : :
extout in SYST I, who can te handled sore profitanl: if i i
transferred to the control of \E=CEP!s station. Subsect to Fore Office i
approval, no definite co-nitnents have been rade in th!s case. :

: 3. Subject has a working tacaledze of the followins suhjects:

a. Protocol
be Liaison methods pertaining to intelliccnce in :
Latin Anerican countries and inter—departmental ~D a :

laison within our ow gover=nent.
€. Corrurications systems, Sthject trans=its and ‘Hv 4

code.
d. The political structure of Latin Anerican governnents.

SERPFY

CLASSIFICATION,

oe at

von 0.
ape tgay B88

receives about 12 - 16 words per xinute in horse } |


ss
te eee

4. Subject is best
tries, particularly Panera ard Costa Pca

ICh

a, Chile and br

Has brothers. +
up the cover. (Parasraph 9, pap-aws3s bet coe

then,” tne subjec
It xight be well to s
individuals at this tine.

of T2PeA-ié5 Fart I.
on the latter chree

8. Subject is exployed by enother azency, but that explo;
in the near future.

ent will te terrinated

9. Subject has been recruited cn cn Erhass:
pessitle that he knows the ultirate
submit.

turnover cozld te effected » dat
eiffieclt to build up ¢ : would
SYEPOFATSIC to co-municate ith # ? since toth

have a kmoledge of Yorse Code. However, it is belie % futgre infor-
ration fron HYIROC?S? I will not have its prizary value in ths area.

1l. Subject rill be briefed to comuniccte by
connection night te used as tris is the
exploys in forwarding comunicstions to Eiocrst:

12, Subject will be briefed to report in writing and to regire Ms sub-sgents

to do so wherever SFRDLT
SERET KES

Sug Gti SES. +2 An



: 13. Subject cannot te expeetce ta 4 ; vasor rertfon of his tine to

our work until } din hg? new
surroundings, i2thovch abe will provcvly ene
counter a geod deal of re

14, Subject has ent
for vs for a sé.
contract at any

treet to rerforn services
This can be rade into a written

S. Subjects tent oject is ontl Tarh 2 wkove,

16. Subject should be capable of initiatingKis om wrojects< a : !
FAMIENT

17. Starting in Febreary 1649, 44 i211 te necessary to wy subfect £50.00 1 H
collars per ronth a3 indicated in per eph 14 above. {

18. Subject has been told that 4£ Ms services +
pect an inercase in salary. tio spect

ve Satisfactory, he can ex= nee
© anount Kes discussed. i

19. It 49 conte:
expenses
Developzent.

ated that this station nar he req-ired to wy certain travel
ots If done, this will be charced against Project

20. Ko cost of purchase of inforration is involved at this tine. : i

21, Subject's superiors re-ard this
siderable experience in writir
principal criticisns of int
this area is th:
factual and thet cost people
the opposition is #illing ¢

nas tichty depencable. le h2s had con- i
i arked that his tio

€ has observed it in

is inclined to be sensational rather than H

‘ve sothine to report other than that which t

y ree He should have a fair con-. :

cept of security. However, cereral security in this area te very lax and :

he ray have subconscious bad habits. :

22. In view of his background, Subject sho:ld only te good in sexi-covert work.

Hl
i
23. If this -an is kert under cover he wight eventually effect a Fenetration of :

scholastic or parlor-pink circles. It is presuned that this tone woven 7

a low level,

1
Zation. Forever, it 4s telieved that core is to te gained by starting hin i
off An this rancer, perhaps civing hin rertodic schooling ant fradually in- 1
crezsing His activities end Tesronsibilities.,

: P4. This indivicual could easily te recruited for a Sll-tine dob with our orgni-
¢
&

CS cory Loorrf ea
Mstributions a 72 “ $

i
Cnc] SSO ony - see $F



Toren ceaie

TELA wes BEee

FEV Det Niter nee yund) hip pu.
—SIFT2, Chepser, Cipoy ¢loo/Hs -

© ln the station's judgement, neither GOM nor VLT fs
SECRET 29is0sz will wich to push this further.
IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 2925

RYZAT. nu,
PEF mExt ages (VY 6/382)"
te MONT 26 SEPTEMBER LIFTER-3 SAID VLT CALLED MEETING NATIONAL
DIRECTORATE SEPT 21, AT WHICH LIYCI.D-1 SRESENT, AMD TOLD oROUP
PLANNED CALL PRESS CONFERENCE SEPT 23 TO “AKE EXPOSURE PE oDyaxE

Usetsn6I264

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES ™

2

2. SEPT 25 VLT SPOKE SRIEFLY To NUMBER OFFICIALS AT YOM ABOUT
PRESS eam AND SAID THAT TO SAIN
CHARGE THAT L-i AND RACIEL HERNANDEZ WERE THREATENED, ON
CUESTIONING SY L- “s, VLT SAID a NEW ATTEMPTS MADE AGAINST
PPS PEOPLE BUT BELIEVES SOME obyoxe ASENCY HAS POSSISLY ONE MEMBER
NATIONAL DIRECTORATE OR PROSASLY ONE CENTRAL COMMITTSS MEMBER

@XIMUM IMPACT HE ADDED

WORKING FOR IT, BUT ADDED THIS TYPE OF THI%G DIFFICULT UNCOVER AND
PROVE, ae :

Se L+8 WAS TALKED TO ADRIANA SEVERAL TINES siNce EXPOSURE ata
SHE SAYS PPS HAS NO PROCF OF CHARGES, PND KO EVIDENCE, SoCUMENTARY
oR orneawise, WHICH NOT PUBLISHED IN PRESS. THERE STILL NO
EVIDENCE L-1 HAS REPORTED E PSCENT APPROACH, AND NO SYIDENCE

is vi +



MESNANDEZ HAS PEPORTED MO.
‘TELESHONE CALL TO PPS.
4. +8 HAS TALKED T9 HERNANDEZ LEVERAL TIMES SINCE PRESS 4

RELEASE, AND LATTER ANGRY WITH VLT WHO FAILED CONSULT HIM BEFORE 4
PRESS CONFERENCE, HESNANSEZ SAID VLT HAD PRCMISED MATTER VOULD a
BE DROPPED ap NO PUSLICITY WOULD BE GIVEN APPROACH. HERNANDEZ \!
: ROW FEARS ODYCKE AGENCY WHICH APPROACHED KIM VILL HAVE HIM FIRED \
i FROM. HIS ree JOBS, AND REALIZES PPS IN NO POSITION HELP HIN. ~ et
. S$... L-8 BELIEVES VLT MADE EXPOSURE THIS TIME IN EFFORT MAXE i
t SOME FAVORABLE PROPAGANDA AT EXPENSE PBPRINE, KNOWING THAT

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES OF LATTER HAVE BEEN “EXPOSED” IN NUMBER
PLACES RECENTLY. ALSO, VLT VERY POSSIELY TRYING CFFSET EXPECTED
ADVERSE CRITICISM AS RESULT CHIHUAHUA INCIDENT Rd SEPT IN WHICH
SOME UGOCN. CPPS) PEOSLE INVOLVED. ACCORDING L-2, PPS
j ieee AND VLT FEEL GOM NOT INTERESTED PPS CHARGES AND WILL NOT SERIOUSLY
INVESTIGATE IF IN FACT ANY EFFORT MADE AT ALL. VLT PLANS SPEECH
IN CONGRESS ON 5 OCT, AND ALTHOUGH punter SAID SPEECH WIL DEAL
. :PRIMARILY WITH ECONOMIC MATTERS, L-@ FESLS CERTAIN VLT WILL DISCUSS

i oovort INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES WEXI. we +

- regs

_. 6s PRESS ie 28 SEPT Lidia ARTICLE ON INTERVIEW Luis



ITH WUSBER REPORTERS 28 szPr, ABRIA. SAID-VLT-Gave Hin” PAGE 2

ane ~ DECLARATION 25 “SEPT REGARDING SUPPSSED ACTS EXPIONAGE axD BRIBERY
* INVCLVIsa Tyo OFFICIALS PPS, ECHEVARRIA SAID IN VIEW FACT CNE oF
TWO PERSONS ACCUSED BY pps 15 SOREISNER (TCRELLID, cae

RNACION

HAD INITIATED ay INVEST Icaty 24T THAT Facts PRESENTED BY PPS pg

NCT constitute EXPIONACE,
~ PUBLIC CFFICIAL OR Fy!

SINCE NEITHER PPS OFFICIAL INYCLVED Ig
RCTICNARY, pp

5

5

THAT IF FACTS CAN SE PRovEN atcraadite

ae IT NAY BE THAT THEY COULD SE CHAgsED viTH THREATENING PHYSICAL MARY

; TO Pps OFFICIALS AND THEIR FAMILIES,
Ag BEMNADUMY TALKED To lI
LITEMPO-1 APPEARED NOT AT ett

+ SAID VLT Has MAKE SOME

KIND OF SPECTYLAR CHARGES PERICDICALLY IN ORDER PRove TD PPS Rane

AND FILE HE HaS NoT JOINED PRI, 4.

P e. ABOUT CHARGES, BENADUN PLaNS SENTICN To LITEMPO-4 aT FIRST
: OPPORTUNITY,

RO INDICATED, SOM PLANS DC NOTHING

9
8. LIJERSEY-5, TOLD CERENDE 23
SINCE. TURE ovER TC CASE OFFIC

10
PT HE HAD NOT SEEN LIJERSEY-1

ERIN 1957, 1-53 poes NOT KNOW urfowy-1
AND BELIEVES LIJERSEY-1, IF QUESTICNED, WOULD Deny ANY INTEL CONNECTIONS
AND WOT REVEAL Na

ES OTHE: -K PEOSLE THEN KNOWN TO HIM,
Be “C8 a

fan

eee TERT

2 Nf enRS Cue Re



2 a
SEE L/L, -

jN 6226Y :

i ’ Pros g
28 LIFTER-8 VLT 21 LiMOLD-1 23 RE ODYOKE

U RACIEL HERNANDEZ urs VLT Ni

0 PROOF NO EVIDENCE NOT Pi
NO EVIDENCE HERNANDEZ PPS L-g HERS

CEN 4385 4865
25 VLT UoM L-
ADRIANA PPS fy

O NEW PPS ODYOKE L-g
YELISHED NO EVIDENCE L-t
NDEZ VLT HERNANDEZ VLT uo

PPS Ho-PosIT ION
23 YSOCN PPS L-g pps VLT GOM NOT IK

HOT SERIOUSLY VLT 5 OCT ADRIANA Le

GOEERNACION 28 ECHEVARRIA VLT 25
GCERERNACION

PUELICITY HERMaNDEZ ODYOKE, L-8 VLT vir CHIXURHUA
TERESTED Ppg

8 VLT ODYCKE 29 1
SEPT FS ECHE
PPS NOT CONSTITUTE Pps PPS BENADUM

UIS ECHEVAPRTA
VARRIA P°S TORELLY

LITENPO-1 28 RE
VLT LITEMPC~1 Nor AT VLT PPS Nor JOINED PRI Eo

LIVERSEY-5 GERENDE 23 NO!
LIMOLD-1 LIJERSEY-

M BENADUy LITEMS 9-4

Tt SEEN LIVERSEY-] 1957 L-5 Not Koy

1 NOT REVEAL xuzary NOT PLAN L/S L/}

a i S



|

roo
; a8 ere COPY

Te

~ reyes Pela 62.0

CUASSIFIED-MESSAGE
7

WeDoecs soon fs Sfye SECRET--: -_[-=:
Dae.

Toeanee €OP¥

Dee. bt eaneone ll
DIR CHE HEA? ease i
REF a EXT apse (7 TF AES) &

BCIR 32318

i. SOLE €57A,

CRET K RE meme PRess CARRIEO PRESS CFEEME Given Bu

VICENTE Lenina by Tet
543843 24 SEP RED 2

“FN00 TAEDEKO

{

ee of. lefty

Ex Rey Gaczca =
IOr- PETRIE

i
i
|
i
{
t



: inn _ SECRET. as

COHEN PULLED IN)

‘STATEMENT-of-EARNINGS” and “DEDUCTIONS ~

wou] HuMate
657575

PAY P1800 Bate

losei = ise

reascze | Pee AbARY LEGEND of ACTION CODES
0 LEGEND of ACTION CODES

1. Promotions
2. Periodic Step Increase
3. Field Allotment

4. Slory Differential

DESCRIPTION

5. Leave Without Pay

62052
1778.86
1294472-
927

6. Hospital, Insurance, Credit Union

FED TAX 2

36HOSP 9 7. Overpayment

2

Tax Deduction Chonge

9% Allowances

Resion. EFF tila sha :

wenewitn PL THR alachr ts 3% In Th & Seb ER AR
EMPLOYEE NAME:
NOEMAYR HAROLD R
. SECRET
Bee Th on Pow wwioree than Normal Salary > ~~~
555493 | | 2283.75 | 2265.75 TOTALS
= ens
(REP 1315 wat rermous soon ne

|

|


x
eer 21963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personne) Division <i i
ft fot ieee
: * gupsect 1 Termination of Contract - Ross L,
Crozi

70)— Jovss|
§ 1. Attached is the original of Porm 1689, Cloarance
Sheet for Terminstion of Contract Pergonne), for retention
in your file. A copy has been forwarded to the Office of
rf Security for their records,

2. Also attached 1a er, Crozier's letter of rosigna-
tion. In accordance vith the provision of his contract
providing for a ninety day notice, the resignation becoses
effective close of businces 28 November 1963.

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief, Special Affairs Start

i

!

i

{ Attachments: ~?
| Form 1689 h/w
i

i

H

Distribution:
Orig. & 2 Addressee w/att
1 - Comp Tax Accts Br
1 - ccs

|

i

|

i

Letter of Resignation |
i

1 - Outplacement Branch |
|

a en en ee a ei



KOTIFICATION OF ESTAS!

> ORTH ENTARY- COT B

WiLiTany Coven oaccstom ESTABLISMED

BLOCK RECORDS:
(OPuENO 20-200. 11)

@. TEMPORARILY FOR_____ DAYS, EFFECTIVE.

ASCERTAIN THAT ARMY W-2 BEING ISSUED,

(ap 20.661.1)

[J SUBMIT FOFM 1322 FCR ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS COVER,

(B 240-250)

SUBMIT FORM 1323 FOR TRANSFERRING COVER RESPONSIBILITY
(2 240.250)

'
- dnl 023 = Bc, F



MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION 3
SUBJECT :

27 September 1963

Chief, Central Cover Staff

Mr. Charles Danish
- cae sR
Termination of Contract Personnel -
Ross L. Crozier
——

1. Mr. Ross L. Crozier, a Career Agent assigned to :
Special Affairs Staff, has tendered his resignation from
the Agency. In accordance with the terms of his contract,
he gave 90 days notice making his termination effective
close of business 28 November 1963.

Crozier's

SECRET

WS ain PU ae ans ate hace Ch DNR ae ot iS



erence trent eres Nee ens stent ween eerie

‘TERMINATION SECRECY OATH

I, Ross L, Crozier » am about to terminate ny
association with the Organization. I realize that, by virtue of ny duties with
the Organization, I have been the recipient of information and intelligence which :
concerns the present and future security of our country. I am avare that the
unauthorized disclosure of such information {s prohibited by the espionage laws

of our government which specifically requires the protection of intelligence
vrnmces and methods from unauthorized disclosure. Accordingly, I SOLEMNLY 7
WITROUT MENTAL RESERVATION OR PURPOSE OF EVASION, AND IN THE ABSENCE OF DURESS,

AS FOLLOWS:

1. 1 vill never divulge, publish, or reveal by writing, word, conduct, or other-
wise, any information relating to the national defense and security and partic-
ularly information of this nature relating to intelligence sources, methods,
Personnel, fiscal data, or security measures: to anyone, including, but not limited

to, any future governnental or private employer, private citizen, or government
employee of official without the express written consent of the Chief of the
Organization or his authorized representative.

2. I have been invited to submit in writing any monetary claims I may have
egainst the Organization or our government which may in any way necessitate the
disclosure of information described herein. I have been advised that any such
clains vill receive full legal consideration. In the event, however, that I am
not satisfied with the deci ation concerning any present or
future claims I may submit, I will not take any other action te obtain satisfac-
tion vithout prior written notice to the Organization, and thea only in accorddnce
with such legal and security advice as the Organization vill Promptly furnish me.

Be eee ent nave any documents or materials in ay possession, classified or un-
classified, vhich are the property of, or in custodial responsibility of the

Organization, having cose into my possession as a result of my duties vith the
Organization or othervise.

4. During ny exit processing and during ny period of ewployzent with the Organ-
guation I have been given an opportunity to report all inforsation about the
Organization, its personnel, and its operations vhich I consider should receive
official cognizance. “Hence, I am not avare of any information vhich it ie By
Suty, in the national interest, to disclose to the Organization, nor am I avare
of any violations or breaches of security vhich I have not officially reported,
except as set forth on the reverse side of this sheet or on other attacheents,

- ; 3a Gung. 63
Def- le bF C1
O30 1379 SECRET cay



/ 5+ T have-teen advised-that; in-the event Iam called upon by the properly con-
stituted authorities to testify or provide information vhich I am pledged hereby
not to disclose, I will notify the Organization insediately; I will also advise
said authorities of ny secrecy commitzents to our government ard will request that
my right or need to testify be established before I am required to do so.

6. 1 am avare of the provisions and penalties of the espionage laws of our gov-
ernment and am fully avare that any violation on my part of certain matters sworn
to by me under this oath may subject me to prosecution under the terms of these
lews, and that violation of other portions of this oath are subject,.to appropriate
action, including such dissemination of the violation as the circumstances var-
rant.

I have read and understand the contents of this oath and voluntarily affix wy
signature hereto with the full knowledge that this osth vas executed for the
mutual benefit of myself and our government, and that it vill be retained in the
files of the Organization for its future use or for reference by me at -any' time.
in the future that I may be requested or ordered to testify or disclose any of
the matters included within the scope of this cath. aa

ate



|

30 August 1963
Washington 25, D.C.

os

DIRECTOR,
Central Intelligence Agency,
Washington 25, D.C.

I hereby tender my resignation from the Central
Intelligence Agency as a Career Agent. In accordance with
the termination clause in my contract, request that all
salary be continued for a period of 90 days from this date.

I understand that my services are to be available to the

Agency during the period of 90 days.

1607 8. 26th St
Arlington 6, Va.



(Grrice acm ecamte OF abyrenecat

WAVE COnTEERY CFOEETIVE Gate ceareacy Last cemtere
1 Juze 1087 original cestras
indof in

-

carat acti WFR | “WHET Pomncca [BS ag
if BCPEOTLE OF INTiAY | Corley OFFICES u
CGF7ICSD POT ESTERS LT SEVIED 81L4 20 17DIesTE)

7 [Se orere)

ip hn elem



aseeeeceeel

- 52 = AR July.1963-- =

On qualifications - there just aren't any in the
civilian’ or industrial category = The university work in
Economic Sciences was real, not cover, but interrupted before
I got the degree (5 years). However, f specialized in Economic
Theory, which when considered that I studied in three “atin
American Universities (Costa Rica, Guatemala and Cuba) does
give me some qualification as a Latin American Consultant".

The classfication as "Research Analyst" is cover excert
for that part of which the "Latin American" background could
be utilized. se ieee Be

Although I have had no business experience in an administrative
or executive capacity, I am sure that I could qpalify in that
work, especially if i were in connection with Latin America or
utilizing my Spa:.ish language ability.

AS you can see by the above, unfortunately there is no
comercial "counterpart" for the type of work I have been doing
for 15 years or more. My feeling is that we should consult the
"local outplacement” man first, on the possibility that there is
a local oprortunity, but the opsortunities in the “atin American
field whill be greater.

(In acdition to the above, I might add that I have performed
best in "operations" work"= which involves planning, direction.and
coordination.) :



rt a a rn fn en Ae ence ea

ENPLOYMENT HISTORY - Ross L. Crozier

331-12-9652
Organization/Location

60th FA Bn., Ft. Bragg, N.C.
USAF, C.Z. and IBT

USAF, Canal Zone

University of Costa Rica
Economic & Social Scéances

University of Costa Rica
Department of Geology

Studio Indiana (Photography!
San Jose, Costa Rica

Commercial Photography -
Guatemala City, Guatemala

Pan American Foundation,
University of Florida,
Gainesville, Fla.
Scholarship Grant to Cuba.
(Director: Curt Wilgus)

Public Surveys Institute,

1511 Bryant St., Dallas, Texas
In Havana: Feb 57 - Apr 58

In Mexico: June 58 - Apr 60

Clarence A. DePew & Sons,
230 Park Aves, NeY.C.

Dates

29 Aug 40-8 Sep 41
9 Sep 41-6 Jul 45
18 Apr 46-18 Apr 49

(15 May 49-15 July 53

1 Aug 52-1 Nov 52
1 Nov 52-1 Jul 53
1 Jan 54-1 May 54

1 Sep 54-1 Sep 56

1 Feb 57-31 Aug 60

1 Sep 60-1Sep 61

Branch Office, Coral Gables, Fla.
Zenith Technical Enterprises, Inc 1 Sep 61-15 Jan 63

Bldg 25, Coral Reef Drive,
Miami 54, Fla.
Empl Id No. 59-0938096

U.S. Army Element,

Joint Operations Group 7753
The Pentagon, Wash 25, D.C.
Tel. OXford 7-7510 (Code 11)

15 Jan 63-To date.

10 July 1963
Title/Position
Survey Operator
Intelligence NCO
Intelligence NCO
Student /G.I, Bill

Adm Asst/Photography
Owner /ingr.
Photographer/Indep.

Student/School of
Economic Sciences,
University of Havana.

Research Analyst &
Latin American
Consultant.

Research Analyst &
Latin American
Consultant.

Research Analyst &
Latin American
Consultant.

Latin American
Consultant.



- Bmployment-Historyy 9 0

Qreanination Erg oo
60th FA Bn, Ft. Bragg, BO 29 Aug 40 8 Sep 4L
USAP, Canal Zone-Burma IB? 9 Sep 41 6 Jul 45
USAP, Canal Zone 16 Apr 8618 Apr 49
Central Intelligence Agency 1 June 49 1 June 57
441430 E Street, wie

Washington 25, D.C.

Central Intelligence Agency 1 June 57 To Present
2430 E Street,
Washington 25, D.C.

Title/Position

Survey Operator
Intalligence KO
Intelligence KO

Contract Agent

Career Agent.





PERSONAL” INFORMATION”

VOL. V of V



"DIRECTOR

FROM
“WEX1CO

ACTION WH 5
a
peo Fl, Fl/ops 2, s/C2

RE

ROUTING

RE VAIVADA MILLING IN
PRINCIPLE ASSIST IN PROCURING WORK PAPERS AND COVERING ANY a
FRIEND NAUMAN, AS HOS INFORNED, EXPECT| WILL BE : :

SATISFIED NOMINAL SUM CCHPENSATE ADDITIONAL EXPENSES.
2.[ «TOLD NOTHING EXCEPT woy.p\rencoraTe HIS
MAKING PLACE FOR A FRIEND, NO COMMITMENT OR OBLIGATION OF

ANY KIND.
re, *
3. LEAVE DECISION TO HQS. § IN EvEN ANY INTEREST

l
i
!
i
i

WOULD PERHAPS BE WISE HAVE(VAIVADAMOOME WET AND TALK
WITH WO tel- 22725
END OF KESSAGE

MICROFILMED.

Ong,
daw sarnt



~ OFFICIAL DISPATCH

0 ee pespatcu xo. _EAPS-6430
=

21 JUK 959

ro * Chief of Statdon, Hexico City DATE
mou! Chief, wD

= Operational
; sunncr| Come” Harold. wopura §— ORGS y CROLIER

REFERENCE! FMPW=61.20, June 1958 (50-6-67/1)
ACTION REQUESTED: Hone. For Your Information,

Forvarded herewith is a copy of Subject's PRQ,
Covart Security Approval was anended on 3
7 use in Hexico,

I. Subject's

} Li dune 1958

; Attachment:
} As described shove. a

Distribution:

J.C. KDIG, CATED

mame 51-29

{

OT Serene a are raat de nel



Cae ae Toes pea ao

SECRET | Hta-tatao
|
i

a SATS Od eS

201732723

NOEMAYR

“~ -PPEERG ice ETA of NOEMAYR's replacement so that
AGSBRRT A of NOEMAYR's ‘pl seat

HMMA -13726, ll September 1959

1, The Station would appreciate any information which Headquarters can
provide concerning an ETD for Harold R. NOEMAYR and his family and an
ETA for NOEMAYR's replacement, ‘NOEMAYR's tentative ETD of | January
1960 is only slightly more than one month away and he has visas to obtain in
addition to other departure preparations,

2, NOEMAYR was instructed by the Station to Proceed with the necessary
correspondence with Mexican, Costa Rican, Cuban, and Panamanian authorities
for the required police certificates for his wife since she is not a citizen of
PBFRIME and is applying for an Immigrant Visa. He has already received the
necessary documents from Costa Rica and Cuba and expects to obtain the
Mexican certificate within the next two days. No reply from Panama has been
received as yet although it should arrive shortly. As soon as the Panamanian
clearance and that from Mexico is obtained, NOEMAYR will submit all papers
to the local ODACID installation and request the necessary documentation for
the travel of himself and his family. As Headquarters is aware, the Immigrant
Visa for NOEMAYR's wife will be valid only so long as she travels within four
months of the date issued,

3. An early reply to this dispatch would be appreciated.

Ljys/mvy
25 November 1959
Distribution:

3 - Hqs
2 - Files



+ =~

FFICIAL DISPATCH

DISPATCH NO, TEE T2118

201+ 32723

17 JUN 1958
To t Chief of Station, ‘exico City DATE

mom + Chief, WHD

ENERAL = Ozerational
le ROSS L.. CROZIER

Action Requested: Ploese siotify Subject

Teferonca iz rade to Subsect's contract offec

F£fective 1 June 1957, eatd contra
adding :ter sub-paragraph (0) of “arsd
entitled "Zllowencaa," the following:

®(c) You will bo entitl
a allowance fa ronforzsnce
t prescribed in anplicad:

: All other tors ant
f in Call force av! ef

9 June 1958

<

eee

Brine 51-29


=

— are ”
7 via: LATCH NO.
cme TRSA-974,
CLASSIFICATION Giseesesiidsusssntensi cassusgtroses paageesenrasee sre eeseecen oeeenetee
i ~ "qo" FGhief, Foreign Division T pare: __10 Juiy 295]
FRoM : Chief of Station, San José H
SUBJECT: cnr Administrative i
specinc— "Ross Lester “CROZIER _
Ref: TRSA-925-'¢ "LG - ree !
Attached herewith are the fingerprints and samples | — |
of handwriting of subject to be attached to the reference. aaa :

Encl: 2

2 Sel.

ately 51-28 A



‘Name .Mawexha.Cromer....Roae........ Lester ames . Classification ..
Cures) (Faw (tei)

2 Nationality ...USA.. Color ..... White. $02 cee Meccccnnee Reference ....

RIGHT HAND

(PLEASE TYPE OR PRINT PLAINLY) i
(
|
i

4, Thumb 2. Index finger

LEFT HAND
Te lndex finger | 8. Bide

Note amputations

Date impressions

FOUR FINGERS TAKEN SIMYLTANEOUSLY

oe Left thumb | Kight thumb

~

‘ged PLEASE DO NOT FOLD THIS CARD
Foy bs fapy

eeereee erence



“ee }
I

_

a : fe
ee |

'
.
:

: |
i
i f
i t
! i
: :
i i
| 1
i i
i
i

201-16 FF


OFFICIAL DISPATCH = = st
a DISPATCH NO. AS -U/- 2 ZI
qo + Chief of Station, San Jose DATE:_2) Docanber 1048 i

FROM * Aeting Chicf, Poreien ranch T

SUBJECT: Generar. Operations -
SPECIT'F) Projeot Nydropathio
ESPs TZPA-365, Part
The attached documant 16 forvarded to your station for examination ae |

in connection with the do-elopaent of Project ropathic. You are : 1
directed to foruerd thie document to ingn it hos served its .

parpose.

Attach,

jer

oS cory

{RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICER

OS opzRA



aes TE ' pam

~

CLASSIFICATION

To : ATE:

From Chiot of Station, San Jose

a SUBIECH EOD Pivioton F
srectsSGrational,

: i

y a H H
C2TUNOD = RNUMST 25 H
ia 1

RFs Tes

: 1. A review of the conpronice +
ths part played y a AOD cay Lave boen

dnileate tree NLANIST

Oid not Inow [Taos
At fe quite probably
toon yoursel? toax

@n \noricaa other

to atteqt to mininise the
youy end he maz rossibly have

22 deseription of HJANOID. Dessusa
@ that UIA shoald be isolated
Koo axroxaatoly six montis, in order

% th authorities say euspect hia of tacing
Civitiene it io bolicvod that this period of
f= dnsetivity will provect CAI and essist hin in the preservation of

eieeececrtie {

H

“77 his covers . Hl

—_—_—— : j

a 3e You aro tubhorised to contime his salary for the period during {

—— widch he will perform no wor for yous a H

: ji he it 4s requested that you tera over all operations which ifZANOID : 4
i 22 is curvontly handlin: to another agent (or agents) as soon as precticables

coe af you are unable to do tis, you “sy suspomd the orerattons in wich

i
i
: EOVAICID bas been active, until such ting as HUT) can again resune
H his work for use You are aloo authorized to pay the ac:
i ‘Whose work 1s ouspended durin; this poriods
!

ELeasine-Or rac COORDINATING OFFICER
(eta, Valter ae
SECHET ¢8 Corr

CLASSIFICATION

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER



7 i
i
Se .if the op-orturity should prevent itoalf, 1t would be H
appreciated 1f you would question iJ :AuiS7 an to the mature of the i
Interrogation which he underwent at the han's of the police, with i
tha object of findin: out whether he told thea at ary tine that i !
thore was a third i“vidual involved tn the technical ourvedllance, i
'
Tt
yt By 7. J. Mores j
CUFijr :
H
‘ i
i
i
os
1d ate
BID\ Ep
BECEAEy é
WH 59 i 7
3 Lean
2 He Med/ 8 tZ ¢.

(20/ 16 F889]
i SD



i
SECRET,
Tot Chief, «wD part __1] January 1957 _

FROM t Chief of Station, Habana SR

GENTRAL = Adnini otrative i
iacaleedl {greme® ‘Arthur ©, VAIVADA i
FedaioedicdabeLe Gay ;

Reference: HAVA 755

1.  Distussions of the whole problem of VAIVADA’s early TDY to Headquarters
were held between the agent, the Meld case officer, and the Chief of Station on i
13 and 1, Jenuary, as a result of which it becane clear that, unless Headquerters H
has a compelling reason to the contrary, it would be advisable that the ccontes- :
Plated TDY be postponed until about the end of VAIVADA’s current contract year, }
d.e., the period of July-August 1957.

2, A number of important personal problems dispose VIAVANA to accept the
delay in acquiring staff status that would accrue from such a postoonenent. His
wife 4s suffictently 111 at this tine from a form of nervous colitis as to recom-
mend that she not travel now. His children would have to-lose a semester of
their schooling since the current semester began on 7 January. Moreover as he
and family have resided in tropical areas for a number of years, VAIVADA would
have to make a rather large financtal outlay to purchase needed winter clothing
for himself and his family which does nct seem justified for a period as short |
88 two months. Owing to several routine but time-consuming inquiries being made
by the local ODASID in connection with his wife’s visa application, there is no
guarantee that VAIVADA would be able to depart Cuba before February 1957.

i
i
|
3. On the operational side, in spite of the.original Station request tha j

VAIVADA’s travel be expedited, advantages now of delaying his TDY outweigh the |

disadvantages, from the Station’s point of view. Most important of these is that

two promising sourses currently under develooment by the Station, namely AMPRODARCH-

6 and AMPHODARCH-10, were originally contacted by VAIVADA and he has since been |

the person working most closely with them. To substitute him with a relatively

untrained cut-out at this point in their development is not desirable. On the

basis of the original proposed timing of bis trip the Station has however proceeded

with firm plans, to transfer handling of two other sources, AMPHODARCH=1 and AMBI-

VALINT-5, to a reliable PBPRIME cut-out. This plan can be initiated whether

VAIVADA departs now or later, and provides the ideal ooportunity to take two low-

level sources off VAIVADA’s hands thereby freeing the latter to undertake new |

din'ists 51-28A



SECRET

— ~~ HRH-A-331, Page 2"

17 January 1957

development of specific student Commni4st and Youth targets the Station has
already lined up, Both these sources have passed through an {ritial pertod of
trainin: and have fully demonstrated their reltabtlity and ability tocanttnue
to perform effectively via a cut-out. In handling @ half-dozen sources, as
VAIVADA has been doing, he reached the limits of reasonable span of ecntrol and
hes not had the time to give to such new developmental work which is his forte
and upon which {t would be most. desirable to have him concentrate rather than
upon the mere routine handling of relatively tested sources,

kL. Delaying VAIVADA’s TDY as proposed herein would place VAIVADA at
Headquerters at or about the end of his current contract year; where he would be

if possible,
effect,

5. Regardless of the decision as to tintnz of his travel, VAIVADA is
Proceeding to change his residence, He will try to obtain a suitable house
Possessing a telephone, something he has lacked heretofore, thereby carrying
Shrough plans previously reported to Headquarters in para~raph 6 of HaH-A-3shly.

6. Therefore, unless there exist truly urgent reasons for VAIV:DA’s
travel to Headcuarters prior to about July 1957, it is recommended that his

trip be postpened unt{] that time.
oe R, Palinger 4
.

Distribution:
2 = Washington
2 - Piles

16 Samary 1957
SRP/dnt

&Tp :
beepe z 08
tep 1 ate

iT, RAM

Of
SECRET



va _AIR pisparcH wo, _HXH~A-2726

pate _7 June 1956

10 & Chief, WED
FRoMt Chief of Station, Habana

GnimaL, Administrative

suance | nce Arthur G. VAIVADA ~ Contract Amendment

REF8 HKH-W-1710, 28 May 1956.

Forwarded is the original of the Contract Amendment transmitted under
reference dispatch, signed ty Arttur G. Vaivada, One copy of this
Amendment is being retained in Station files.

yest 0. Fabenger—
james R, Palinger

Attachments
1-Amendment,

Distrivutiont
3 Wash v/att.
2 Files w/att.

5 June 1956

dhnnists 51-28 A



a SECRET pear esa
ss Cunen Filled in) +
~T REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION Sea '

ECPI eens se gerne

FNAME (Laon, Firat, Middle)

masa

3. OF rice, DIVISION, BRANCH

TEH/

‘S euPuovec’s ext,

7, PURPOSE OF EVALUATION

lta ee
[J rre-tuptovnenr (7) ovensens assionuenr

fre 7
( ewtaance on oury i.

¥ATION

TOY ow pes

[1 tov sranoor
7 sr eciat raamina

TPE OF COVER

WO. OF DEPENDENTS TO ACCOMPANY

ANNUAL, NO. OF OEPENDENTS: REPORTS OF MEDICAL
RISTORY (SF 69) ATTACHED.

bY

ETURN FROM OVERSEAS

[7] ne runn ro pure Goal «

© ovensend Puamune evaLuATion (Ore Hoek tan Be oecied Caeguestine ornieen

SiewaTuRe

a_Armstrong

L,
ROOM NO. @ BUILOING
Ed

Dos I6 FEES
Tr REPORT OF EVALUATION QUALIFIED FOR Cbadtin boit$ ——_——-= oy

Toms 259 yas naEvious ae

teas Sorriona.


1 ACKNOWLEDGE RECELPY OF $500.00 (casu) rrox Leo.» li) Proms ORG,
RMS TORS
REPRESENTING AW ADVARCE AGAINST SALARY DUE POR THE PAY PERIOD

1/20-2/. oo
: varex( vaso. Rg,

| venus |
a . 7 sf
To Sigatarce {

; US Fey £3
I

i |

x

Dor /6FETy)

|

|

|
|
bo
fh



i MEMORANDUM POR! Chief, Finance. Division !

! SUBJECT 1 Rerold BR, ROEUYR, Career Agent =
i Request for Advance Against Barred
! salary

REPERERCR 4 HR 30-410, dated 20 May 1955

1, Subjoct has recently transferred to Headquarters |
H PCS from JHHAYE. iis ig preseatly arranging to move into
Row quarters oa 1 Harch 1963 and {6 short of funda to
effect thio transaction.

advanced $500.00 against earned salary totalling approxte
mately $895.00 due him for the pay period ending 16 February

- 2, It fe therefore requested that RORUYR be |
1963.

: ROWARD J. PRESTON
Chief,
Special Affairs Staff/support

ce: SAS/Pera

1
!
[

Dos /6nr tl



SECRET

=
FID TRANSMITTAL - FITNESS REPOR
INSTRUCTIONS.

ring the report for tren saitted 10 Heedavarters:

The following items of the Fitness Report will NOT be compl
SECTION A, ttems 1, 6, ond 7
SECTION 0, items 1, 2 ond 3 (Only tm respect to “Typed oF and Ste

Piae aera
15 January 1963 _(/ Harold R. SOENAYR

NL TWAY, EXCEPT FOR ITEMS OMITTED UNDER THE ABOVE INSTRUCTIONS, ALL ITEUS APPEARING ON THE ATTACHED FIT>
ORY HAVE BEEN COMPLETED UNDER PROVISIONS OF CURRENT INSTRUCTIONS OR REGULATIONS

1edby lield personnel pi

tere)

TYFEO,OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATU®E OF SUPERVISOR (in nenudonrm)

ert K. TROUCHARD

TYPED Of PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL (In paoadanra)

a
Andrew K, REUTEMAN

SPECIAL NOTE

Fitness Reports, must be prepared with due regerd for security considerations." For #

persennel ond thors whose daties do not in themselves reveal sources of informonion Tixmolly expected

{hat © complete and realist iment of specific dutses may be reported in Section B. However, the nature, purpose or disper

information of operations will not be included. On the other hand, the position titles end description of specific duties of

i jpardize security ond should not be fully reported on this form. In these cases, general stotements of
Specific duties will ba incloded tn Section B indiceting the level of responuibility

Te

45a cosovere patvious cortions. SECRET Ef - w

Sof OOo

TeespnabiiveknigjifSRIMinee neo DN tty weenie tot tame

|

|



ACTION REQUOLD  RETERT NCES

REFERENCE: UFGS-2585, dated 18 January 1963

Forvarded herewith is 1962 Covert Earning Statenont
for Harold R, FOEMAYR. Subject departed JMWAVE 16 January
acd arrived at Headquarters 2) January 1963.

EXD OF DISPATCH

Attachzent:
Earning Statement,,H/W

Distribution:
3 - Chief, SAS, w/att.

‘Dare TD CATE DSPRTOED
29 Jan. 196dAN31 63
CSI RON HO RRS

UFGT-3987

TS REET
er les 081
’

DISPATCH - :
GYROSE/YIRAM - 1962 Covert Farning Statement ~ Harold = ROEMAYR |
|



{
| STCEBD 23
TTT 7
inal ma
x |
Derarionar | Tt
a]
{ TICE PHONE
Flack, Foortda : Corser tact
YOU ARE AUTHOSIED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR KECESSARY EXPEN"~S IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATE TIS TRAVEL !
OR CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED. IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PEASONAL 4
CONVENIENCE.
TIDIEBANY, MODE OF TRAVEZ AND PURPOSE
Agel, Flas to Mautlacten, De Ce

Penresie FCS per DTG 05:17
* '

= ty what ici, ferete
sve RAEN Se ae
eT mr
paces |= [eesee| | eer to Bee ee
é tor (4 tere Foralaygce | | mx: below) Sion CXsneee 4

‘AWLOW ANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

Authoriesd 3! darn traval tise rth full per diem for subject uly.

Tr:vel end custo in eccasa of direct route charpettle to traveler.

7 DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORTEED Trocune Yaanerontarion ay | SGiNATEO CORT OF AVL
wane pate or eine [Teaneronrarion acover
nee (eas on Orne, $600.00

ia SAA: DISPOSITION OF EYVECTS:
s eS surwonteation
hea tsa. Faro

M [enrwent | SSERTOY TCEATIFY FUNDS ARE AVARARLE

i ‘lseeakweleon auras aes: OBLIGATION REFERENCE wor

ee | 308-43
<2 tha. aie move | CHUREY OWT CENTER RS.
= 3X3-2001-1009 ©

Taovance oF runos wequerTeD

[ACCOMPANY TAVELER

‘bare FIGMATURE OF BF OFFICER

Tecan)

[aovance nevunn
“COORDINATION

Te [sccouatine ove oar

Fires raat ano TE ouroneet

ROMED Je PRESTOG

wemarune



D

Lh
: SECRET :
i sal CWHEN FILLED 16) ea + i
STATEMENT of EARNINGS and DEDUCTIONS :
pry con corny | ar penio9 bate Attaratnr Wane]
NOEMAYR HAROLD R 1s 857575 | 01/20 - 2/16 43420011000 ooo| «
EARNINGS |___DESCRIPHION :
04 801060 REG SALARY
LEGEND of ION COD! e
jiaq# = 328677 Jot = HoL LEGEND of ACTION CODES :
1. Promotions
: 2. Periodic Step Increase

+

Field Allotment

4. Solory Differentiol

DEDUCTIONS DESCRIPTION

o

. Leave Without Pay
$2010 ketmr

°
se 24094 |FED TAX 2 6. Hospital, Insurance, Credit Union
424 58046 |FED TAX 2

a2 126020 [FED TAX 2 7, Overpayment

eo 6018 | 624HOsP 9 :

8. Tax Deduction Change

: Hee Hpd fries Ju eu ft pl
iH # cumovee nants ery Lect! fos We “19 3 poeg jules 211369

fey fer Fro

Gy tascks fh, aie [eh — ison

!
‘ AEFUNES DUI | ees Denotes other i :

“now varvore then Normal Salary a

i
[257-88 | 24094-| 893043 89343 | TOTALS

=] NET Par PD. ot MDQTS.

cata S02? Cp knee
dia og

=
n
-
e
s

{MOM IDES. use pervious ecmones SEQET


H
18 VAN tyes i '
: H
' : ‘eee
i
i i
(eet
oe
HEMORARDUM FOR: Chief, Finance Division Br | i
VIA # Chief, Contract Persoanel Division/OP
SUBJECT t Qualification for Premiua Pay

H REFERENCES 1 (A) Hemorandua to ADCI from General
| Counsel, dated 29 Hay 1962, Subjects
Delegation of Authority (0GC 62-1131)

(8) Hemorandua to DD/S from Chief, Task = |
Foree W, dated 17 August 1962, Subject:
Application ef Housing Allowance aad Pre-
wium Pay to Certain JEWAVE Contract Per-
sonnel

inada ns

1, This fs to certify that Harold &. NGEHAY2, a Career
Agent, Signed PCS to the geographic area of JAHAVE and
JMBAR, liffes for presium poyaent according to the
Quthorination cootained in the referenced seaorandsas, This
certification is based upon the following conditions of sub-
Jeot's employment during his PCS assignmect,

(8) Subject’s hours of duty cannot be controlled adata-
Astrativoly,

(b) Ie order to satisfeetorily discherge his duties,
subjeet is required to perform substantial amounts of
irregular, unscheduled, overtiae duty, and duty at
aight end on helidays,

(1) A substantial amount of trreguler
seheduled, overtime duty means an
| at least six bours of sach
a CT

(2) Tae irregular, anscheduled, overtine daty
fe 8 continual requirement, generally sveraging

Jo/-/6 6 FF1

ry more thas ence a week,



Page 2

(9) Night end holiday duty afll be perferaed
from tige to tic,

(6) Subject is responsible fer recognising, without
perviston, circumstances which require him te reaaia
on duty,

2. The offective dete for this premina payment will be
the beginning of the first pay period followtag 4 September 1962.

WILLIAH K, HARVEY
Chief, Task Force ©
APPROVED:

Director of Personne) Date



: Skcaet
Chief of Station, JMAVE x

i Chiof, Tesk Force @
Hl Gracst/Perseonel :
Preaiua Foy fer Certaia Contraet Eaployees :

j

| H

i 1, Hendquerters hes, ox fs row fn the preeess of, }

i amendiag the costracts for the follow!ng personnel to ‘ i
| provide for Vromioa tey 1m Lica of overtinet : \

BLAIHAUSE, Rasgell J,
CoxKed, Sfebard E, i

\ PLLLAKOCCO, Peter Ve |

| GLAVASC, Fhilip o, :

i HEARD, Bruce 3,

i LAUZENKUS, Morvie a. |

3 STARKZ00D, Keaneth A,

| SYOAUT, Jeaaifer A.

i TARTARILLO, John Ky

‘ TAdTGIRA, Jacob C.

i TEAKES, Le : Se

i canicK, 1 eg

<ckeegara, isroid ee
UEVECRD, Irvieg 6.
SLORAR, Heocy J,

2. Whoo Peter J, DIGEKVERO fe converted froa s
contract eyeet to a coutrect essloyee ctatus, his cone
treet will elao provide Vreoiaa ray.

3. It f6 reqaosted thet JSuAVE roview the obsve
List te detcraine its conpletoness as ft portaias to
contracts asc edvise if there are sey
‘or caissions.

SND OF DISPATCS

Oistributioas
3 - COS, JHUATE

7 13 Wow. 1962 15 NOV 1962

savanqpsnuntaseneeeisssts

OFGS - 2255

|
|

Tru /Persovse) oan 6576

te trijece
Re le e:
Kal eater.

C/tru/Pers.


“ _cuassirien Megat fi AAR Beet a a

on :
sunt. T/FERSOMEL [ SFORR? : POUTING !
er y 6576 int :

cae: 23 NOvEMER 19621672
to, DMMAVE.

FRom: DIRECTOR

CONF: TrW 10

‘NFO: pop, oP 2, s/c 2

“10 WAVE INFO rte pie 48601
: ~"SeyRoge ° rae
REF: WAVE 108 (IN 15729) ye

ALL CONTRACTS NOW BRING AMENDED WITH EXCEPTION PETER J. DIGERVERO. 18
WILL AUTHORIZE PREMIUM PAY DIGERVENO UPC CONVERSION CONTRACT EMPLOYER ‘ i
STATUS.

EMD OF MESSAGE

_ TP COMMENT: Request advise,

% PRESTON ARMSTRONG
C/TFd/SUPPORT ‘ EL,
Cooromatine orescens
: EASING OFFICER 14 Wii SECRET? avrwcaricarine a.
as © REPRODUCTION BY OTHERTHAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Ma, -



veces gene

3
E
Z
id

13 Noveaber 1962
BENG:

HFORL Culel, Coatreet Verecorct Divisios

SOSIJECT t Applicetfon of Premium Pay for Certrin
Coetrect Personnel

Tt fe requested thet the contracts for the following
nazec Contract Ezployees asd Ceicor Agerts be excaded

te ieclade, in the applicable paragraph, the follouizg
provisten:

“Yoo are horets avtherined Presiaa Pay te
lea of overtiae {2 coafornesce with and subject
to tha polictes of this organiscijoa,”

WLAIRAUSS, Zzagel) J,
DULLARCGSU, Peter V.
GLAYASCO, FEatip Dy
AEARD, Broce 2,
STUART, Jenalfer Ay
TAMTARILLO, Joba K,
TAGYDINA, Jaces Cc.
CADICK, Tiviag G.
AYR, Herold &,

LAUZEKKUS,
STAGKROOD, Keeneth A,

BILLIAR K. RARVEY
Chlof, Task Teree &

—————_
Olrector of Personte)

Date

Se
boVsThaliersonnel iterate t S574}

Mong sts Avaressee mate
Ug be ors REGRET =



14-0000

cece ce eee te

CONFIDENTIAL

r
.
I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED IS OF AN
ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE
V8. (wOF dere Tit a ‘bon Tn tote of excon TWOP] :
tv feed eins (te poy stows at and of welling period, H

No secoet LWOP, Tora! excess LWOF,,

te LWOP stone at ond of wattiag period.
ee eee ee tet of

STANDARD FORM NO. 11266
rere} un

Ao HO CONFIDENTLAsirpont ¢84HGE SUP—DISsURSIRE OFFICER'S cory

Sepa PINAR Wate wana ot



ae.

Pereyra
AEST)

i
aE

References: A. UFGT-1613, dtd 18 April 1362 ~ .
B. UPSS-1711, 6td 17 August 1962 P
rded by 2Bcne,

Attached is the material ford
FYING C. DEVUGNG, @n¢ HARLD FR. ROEMATY.
windividuate4,

spraptic inforsation on the thre
y ac far ac is broan, is corre

Enclosures: Biographic info h/w

Distributica . perce
2 = Chief, TTIW v/encls. atte

f ‘Gant rere ‘GaTl DEPeIOaD

4 Oct 62 lCcrr2
Tao wea wo Rae

UPGT, =" 2956



SECRET

25 September 1962

i WOROAABDIN FOts Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBIICT » &pplioation ef Rousing Allovance for Certain
‘ Centract Percenne)

i It fs requested that the contracts for the folloving nased
: Gentract izplovees and Carver Agente to epomied te tnalniay in they
i epplicable paragraph, the provisions SS apackin (My wl

"You are horeia authorised housing asclotance in i
evafcrnence with end snbject te the pelieles ef thie fi
‘ organization.”

CADICE, Irving 6. (Coreer £gent)
\ DEWOBS, Irving C. (Carcer Agent) i
BOM, Parold i, (Career Agent) i
i GLavascC, Philip D. (Contract iaployeo) : i
. HAAKD, Fruce R. (Contract ceployee)

if
H BROWARD J. FRSSTOH
| Chief, TPV/Support

DDP/TPd/Personnel:JEMARTIijtr (25 September 1962) fj
\ Distributs 5 i
| Original € 1 - Ldérecsen 7, i] [7

i 1 - TAi/Personnel 0.P-by
IN sclo™

i
t
i
i}
ol-le C8 E/ |

Te Oe



patos ccoerienea

oy tn i es
ee iris ue 8 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE in 4 —
unt; TRY /FERSONWEL eee ] [4
or. 6576 . 5
Dat: 12 SEPTEMBER 1962 1548, ? 7 aOgaeus
z
7) eave
from, DIRECTOR E
cont, TEW 10 PERO
wo. DOP, C1/OA, OP, S/C 2 a ai
QUT7S52 1
To INFO.
_Auye : OTE DIR
eS 35588
GyROSE

E

REPs WAVE 8436 (IH 19838)

1. FULICY TO APPLY STAPF HOUSING ALLOWABCE TO CERTAIN CONTRACT
PERSOKMEL APPROVED. HECESSARY CONTRACT AMEIDMENTS BRING PREPARED BQS

rox (QUT, swwtcK, GLAVASCO, DEVOONO, SRIGGES-ARD HEARD. HO RE~

TROACTIVE PROVISIONS IN APPROVAL, WILL REQUEST 1 SEPT EFFECTIVE DATED.

POLICY DOES HOT APPLY TO CONTRACT AGENTS. DIGERVESO AND SLOMAN IH
LATTER CATEGORY. canals
2, QS WILL PROCEED CHAHGR DIGERVENO TO CONTRACT EMPLOYER. CA-
BEER AGENT STATUS FOR SLOMAH WILL BE REQUESTED UPOH RECEIP? WAVE RE-
COMMRIDATION. BOTH HE CONTRACTS TO DICLUDE HOUSING PROVISION.
END OF MESSAGE

TH COMMENT: Pls advise.

IOUIS W. ARMSTRONG

Goose ond
‘ecnascren

19°F —s£CRRT
. REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ‘ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

i Woe Baing

¢/trY /SUPPORT G/r¥W /PERSOMNEL
ole le lGFAL
: cooroimaring orricees aor
* RELEASING OFftceR fap eom rere AUTHENTICATING

oor No,



OFFICIAL DISPATCH

Via:

paste DISPATCH NO fsan ge ov)
sweet ARia on sea vouen

SECRET,
cece ee USES
To * Chief of Station, Panna City and CATE:
FROM San Jove

SUBJECT: Genera.

Veo ae

+ DESERSITIED. [Seceser

rem sop Gil 4-05

* Aoting Chief, Foreign Eranch f

? Operations
Project Hydropathie

FEF 1 T2P-A~365, Parte 1 ond II

1. Tho propoeal thst tho Panuea Station activate an agent project
in conjunction with San Jose has been otudied by| this hesdquarters and
elicits the following cosment. It ie felt tha thing can be rained
from a cumbersome joint operation of thi: prajéct that cannot be obtained
from a simple agent project Retaen by the San Jose Station.
If San Jose wishes to avail Retaen in as an independent
project, that station is aupe its preliginary

~-planning for subaisaion for\fihal approval.

ape

SPECIFIC.

a. In tha o doa use Fi thic, thet etetion
le directed Sa es bis cspabilitios before entering
inte a for nt bah eg e His practical experience

net o} ing and the sere fact that

an fotellizence capacity in no
senso autocatically for our works It ie suggested that

tho San Jose Healy ‘te relations with Rydropathio by using

hia 86 8 cutout in\sn Seton .to test his abilities. If his vlue is
Proved end his CostA }xGan sscociations eppear to be in a position to
give him high-level Intelligence inforsation, then coms to a formal egree-
went with recard to his future work in an intelligence gathering capacity.
‘The Sen Jose Station ie directed to give him no encouragement at this
with rospect to a later full-time positicn with this orgenisation,

3. In summary Rydrocyst te to cover bis formal connection with
Hydrocyst I and ie to have no knovled-e of Hydropathic with regard to
tho latter's work for uercer, Letails on the procedure to be followed
in Hysropathie's relation with Hydrocyst I ere the responsibility of th
San Jose Station anc are to be subnitted to this headquarters for final
epproval before any formal comaitsents are sade. The Panaza Station is
Gireoted to forsard to San Jose all the documonts in its files that are
considered pertinent to the develppmnt of this project.

he hse had duty, Stiy hus the BY Se

* RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICER AUTHENTICATING orricen

CLASSIFICATION



.
!
i
}
ere . ipa : |
: RA hesfif
DESELSITIZED
4. Attachnent to TZP-A-365, Part I, $s being forsarded to San Jose ; i
in order to provide lercer with & oazple of Itydropathiots work. The |
San Jose Station 18 directed to return this document to Panana City ohen
the content of the report hoe served its purpose.
Pe 4
Afiodri guéz : :
AE see :
‘
H La 2
¢ aa
WS 1937

a ne Patines

{

i

[: er O2y le ‘

bo ALB my — 4
ae NG OFFICER ‘ AOTHENTYCATING OFFICER 7

WON-1CBSE ]



a : oH

a OFFICIAL DISPATCH

DispatcH no, HATHA 905

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION
To a Cther of Station, iebana DATE:

FROM 3 Chief, WHD

160ct56 15 382

\ SUBJECT: Genera : Acrdnistrotive
; &$ srreitarting O, VeIVAues Proposal to Grant Statt Status
BS

Referencet Hkl-4-2577 2él-32723
Action Requirsds Pouch Views on Proposal Centatned Herein

i

1. Hecdquarters looks f:verably upon refe:
to Artur Q. VAlVila, It bas been eta
Virtually ont of the o:
alien. It has besn furtne;

o|ossl to grant steff status
r that such status is
as hie wife remains an

2 Posed travel end reloted expenses nipht

and hie fea-ly. In order to pertielly
eeTyd to bring VALVANA to Neodquarters for TDY-
8 wife's stay in the U.3.

Hy i
3. If the forezoing Proposal macts with the epprovel of the Station, VATVADA, :
and the letter's wife, Headquarters should be edvisad es to preferable
dates for implensntetion of asze. We wold also like to have recomendations : {
res further training of VATYALA at Pesdquartera. Any objections to the
Plan, as outlined above, should-likeu se be Coomunicated to

at :
(st @@ oorly date. i
oF 1
7 oan Geer |
oD ef, Yi i ‘a
£9 October 1956 i CL /6S so |
pq , Distribution: 3 - Habana, 1 - RI/DuP,@— WH/III/Cuba/d made
ae 1-W/OI/cube, 1 - Wi/Hailroon,
RELEASING prrigen COORDINATING OFFICER AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
uf “5
dea Qo foe
IX BOK, dwt SECRET  peany, apn int, |
CLASSIFICATION S Hy
joes Et iat 233



RD Ti 3)
son sisal Garesr Agents. -

il, Vern Torco ¥ : !
i
i

wt. iy
ia

ACTION LODE; ks Indicated

Transasited berevits ara ects of forms eonserning the Lioprephis

Jnta end requsat fer assesanent in the caves of the three Career dgante
stationed in IHUAVE, Irving @, CADICE, Irving ©. DEWUOHO and Harold Ry
laste tsve those forme revieved for accorsay in the tlegrephie

section and have the appropriate soperrisor complete the asecssumant pare .

tion, Stanloy R. ZA¥EA should prepare the sesesmment for CADICK end
DBYOOSO snd Robert E, TEOUCHAND ehould prepare the cps for SNA, It
fa requested that there ferns be returned to Heedquartere as soon es
poselble.

ED OF DIOTATCE

Attachronts
+. Carear Agent Forms, horevith

Distrivaticns
3 = COS, IKVAYB, v/orcl. 9/6

prresrery Saeed
. 1

2 2"1¥¥4/Perecnne)
cP] = Thafeagiotry
L-Chist, TW



Chief of Station, JMVAVE
‘swastet GYROSE

Housing Allowance for Contract Personnel
ETON REQUIRLD. REFEREES

JMWAVE has reviewed the status of contract porsonnel
assi to this station and has related the circunatances of
their assignment to that of staff apents with respect to the
application of the station housing allowance. Certain of th
contract personnel are not indigenous to this area; have"been
transferred or assigned to JM¥AVE froa other areas on the same
indefinite basis as staff agents, and suffer the same inconveninces
and uncertainties as staff agents which were recognized in the
Headquarters approved housing policy. The rationale for Rpranting
some degree of financial relief under these circumstances, in
the form of a housing allowance, is considered equally applicable
to these individuals. Gased on JM#AVE initial survey of the
status of: contract personnel the station requests. that Headquarters
approve extension of the housing allowance to the Following
individuals: f

uA
HAROLD R. NOFMAYEB PHILIP D. GLAVASCO
PETER J. DIGERVENO IRVING C, DEVUONO
HENRY J. SLOMAN ALICE P, JENRETTE
IRVING G. CADICK

2. Upon approval JMWAVE will forward to Headquarters copies
of the proposed amended contracts and will pay and administer the
allowance in the same manner as is now applicable to staff agents.

END OF DISPATCH
Distributions
3- Chief, TFW \ \
tr vse v \

‘Dare TYPED.

30 June 196

TEADQUATT ERS PLE NASER

Dore /66 FTI



een }

SECRET :

RESORANOUM T0t Chairman, CS Agent Panel
Career Avents of TFW i

REVERENCE + Memorandum to Chief, Task etre from Chairnan,
CS Agent Panel, dated 6 duno 1962, Subject: Infomation
About Career Agents

Per your request contained in referonoe revoranhx the
following information 18 sup; lied cn career ecento assigned to
Task Force Wi

GSe12, £9,475 (SAVE)
be CADICK, Irving 0., 09-15, $13,750 (JMAVE)
@. DEVUONO, Irving C., GS-13, $11,155 (JHWAYE)

Willian E, HARVEY
Chief, Task Force W

Distribution:
Original & 1 - Addressee
1 -- Personnel
_A% Subject Files

|
|
!

Do/- 1680 FI

SECRET

~=<

a eens sacle



|
!
PROJECT i 5
7 1
i
tj !
situa aati Tene an 4
Mexico City _ 3
aMerieo | ;
2555/3162 i :
j t
feria aoe 4 |
Pejusbettehiierepapeteseeaes | H
j Pa ohman i
: Robert Dy Carter Senet
VPO/A CCIM PAE EL? aahdaeuaseeaeeaeeauesanceseeeserus eeeette | | :
ee |
i 4
1 5 Hy
: [nnn { :

SECRET

AO aa lathe aialad edie HS A:


#4-coo00

1, It 1 requested that the LISUGE Project be terninated effective
1962, The prescat project will not expire until 30 April 1962,

2. Effective 1 January 1962 all expenses and cbligatione under this
Project will bo picked up by WH/#, allotwent #2335-5452-1000, This bas
bean coordinated with WE/+/Perconnel, Mr. Joul,

3, Harold B. NOEMAYR (p), Career Agent, was tranaferred PCS to WAVE
ou 20 October 1961, WH/® anticipates an indefinite need for his services
and bis transfer has been cleared with Mr. Arestrong of the Agent Service
Pane),

4, This Project was uerely a Support wechanisa for HOPMAYA and did
Bot provide positive or CB information, NUBMAPE has perforned valuable
services for KUBARK with WH Division since 1548,

5. There are no cover or security problens involved in this project
termination acticn since this 1e culy an adainistrative ceasure transfer-,
ring WAAYR frow Project LINDGS to WH/%, The Office cf Security and CCG
have beon notified by WH/3 of this action, WN/% 10 notifying the Agent
Service Panel,

x

Distribution:
T= LIEDGE/Dev & Plans

1 VP
i WH/4/Juu1
~ NOBAYR/201

'
t



in SECRET 7 H

: 21 Decender 1%1

;  KBOREPUN PCL) Director of Security :
&-2-€9 Koadquartera Buildiag '

act & Chief, F5D, Clearance french
SoE-~4é Eondquerters iuilding
van a i/L/seaurity

SOBJICT + keokguesat ot Gone ea Ta)te JAFE
pease

1, This te to acvive you thet Harcld %. BOUTS, Coroer H
Agent, vae cestcned PCS to VHd.78, @ éczestio base on 20 Catober
T™1, Subject vill be utilised ap ea Che (fftoer in PA-Prep
ectivition in eunport of froject UTZ.

iS 2. Your ecncurrence in the seslenment of ROMAYT. to :
BAATE fe reguosted.

de C, FIED 7
thier
Vestarn Vealephere Pivisien . i

‘COSCURLEBSE :

Direetor ef Security

Bote: Thin information wae cupplfed to 54 Panel per gexorandes
Gated 15 September 111 to the Carsor Agent Fanel.

bOPAK/,/Percomnel:JAROESIE:jtr (21 Decenbar 1%1)

|
| |
|
ol-/6F 851 ope
c



|

% SECRET

Distribution:
Original & 1 - Addressee
1 - cAnD
1 - CAiri/ss
~ WH/L/Exec
~ CAui/4,/SS
~ C/AlK/4/Security
- SA Panel
- WH/4/Personnel

ay



SUBJECT 18-8648
G21S482

to WH/U/Peraonnel, ext, 8350,

H \ pistetbution:
Orig. & 1- Addressee
= Subject.
1 ~ Chrono

| MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Investigative Division 1
Attny Chief, SED, Office of Security

Refeetive 1 Jamary 1962 the file on Subject will ba transferred

1 Decewber 1961

HED P, HOLMAN 1

Der lest)

a a



PeAR
SE0E 1

1 Decenber 196)

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Investigative Division
Atta: Chief, SED, Offiee of Security

SUBJECT rt Harold R, woRMa)
8-958
4112569

1. Effective 1 Jaswary 1962, Harold R, NOAYR, Career Agent,
Will be trensferred to Wi/4/Personrsl, ext, 8350. Ho uae trancrerced
PCS to WAVE on 20 October 1961,

2, Re will be paid out of their funds, The LIEDGE Project is
being teruinated,

NED P, HOLMAN

C/mR/3
Distribution:
Orig. & J/- Addressee
“- NOEMAYR 201/Clearances
1 =~ Outgoing weno chrono
Jot (68 Fey

hl

NA RIE AE oD



|
H
I
|
i
|
'
|
1
|
i
i

SERED
30 Movember 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Covor Division

SUBJECT 1 Harold R, NORAYR
reamne

2, Harold R, RORWUYR, Career Agent, wae transferred PCS to WAVE

on 20 October 1961, WH/3 Le terminating the LIEDGE Project which has
been supporting hia,

2. Refective 1 January 1962, any questions concerning NORAYR

shorld be directed to Mr, Juul, Wi/#/Persoanel, 1905 Quartere Eye,
ext, 8350,

NED P, HOLMAN
cC/Anay3

Distribution:
a Addressee
~ Subject - NOBAYR 201fover
1 = Chrono

SECRET, : ‘Deore 4E¥ ry r

i



30 Movember 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Peraconel Diviston
SUBJECT 3 Warold 8, NOEMAYR (ps)

1, Effective 2 January 1962 Harold R, HOBAYR fa being trans-
ferred to Wil/t/Perconnel, Hr, Juul, 1905 Quarters Bye, ext. 8350,
He was tronsferred PCS to WAVE on 20 October 1961,

2. The LIBOGE Project: {e being terminated and starting oa } Jan~
vary 1962 he will be paid from alloteent #2335-5452-1000,

NBD P. HOLMAN
CA/3

Distribution:
Orig, &

Addressee
- NOBMAYR/201 - Contract
= Outgoing weno chrono

|
|



becoow

CASS can

SECRET

[moe eR
Car Qe
wocqustis mse
On OE GIG

Refs UPOT 910, dated 28 October 1961

sar “2, Reinbursexent forthe texporery storage of affects applicable te a
donegtio PCS novencnt is authorized from the date of the employee's
departure. The maxiwim storage pariod ie sixty (60) days. Harold R.

EMATR and William D, WENKEAD vore qasigned PCS to. JMAAYE on 20 August
1961. Therefore, the initial reinbursesant date for storage of effects is
20 August 1961. Unfortunately chargea pricr to 20 August will have to be
borne by tho individuals since regulations do not parait storage of

- effects during periods vien an employes is absent froa his domestic post
of assignzent.

2. Paragraph two (2) of the reference requested advice regarding
» Feinbursenont for shipment of effects betueon domestic PCS points uaing the
folloving instruxents:

POA - Upon evidence of a proper veigtt certificate,

‘senent for the transportation of 543 pounds from Washington
to Miaxt (1104 miles) is the product of tho applicable commited rate,
1.0.) $19.40 (999 pounds or less) mitiplied by the net Iamdred
vetght transported which is 5.43, giving a total of $105.33.

b. Rental of Trailer - If a proper veight certificate vas not
obtained at the tims the effects wore hauled between ddmestic PCS
pointe, three (3) estimates mist be obtained as to the ‘weight of the
effects. Reimbursement will be at the commuted rate and this includes
the trailer rent (receipt is subaitted).

¢. Employes Ronts and Drives a Track - The same forma as
ree sa the rental of a trailer is applicable. A weight certificate
or three estizates) along with the rental receipt must be subaitted.
Reizbursenent is at the comuted rate.

(Continued oa Page 2)

CSPATCH SEO AND REET

SoTTR BETSTED
6 How, 1961 [15 NOV 1961

TORS PLE NOE

dor l6ners



3. Interpretation of the "Commted Rate Table”
Tequested in paragraph three of the references _

a. Shipsont of 4,000 iba. of HEE fron
Hiowi (1,111 niles) — $12.00 rate is used
mileage is more than 1100 miles (Colum
therefore,

ington, D. C. to
In this instance the
of Table Ho. 3);
any mileage in excess of 1100 miles up to and including
1150 mil the rate in Coli B ($12.00) is used for shipment of
4,000 15s. and up.

db, Minium rates—(1) Three hundred fifty pounds billed at
200 pounds: reinbursonant at the applicable rate for shipment of
500 pounds ig authorized, If billing fo less than for 500 pounds,
reinbursenent is applicable thereto. :

(2) | Stipaent of 850 pounds HRB from Rockville, Maryland,
to Miami and billed for 1,000 pounda: reimbursezsnt - since the not
welght (850 lbs.) exceeds the number of pounds ahovn in Colum 2
(7% lbs. ~ breakpoint in lbs. for 1150 miles), the applicable
rate is that shown in Colum D ($15.00 for 1150 miles), and the
epplicable rate is the niniam bundredveight of that Colum (D),
instead of the actual weight (850 bs.) of the BRE transported.

(3) The 1,000 pound minimm weight allovance for ebipment
to or frem Fishers Teland, Nev York 1s for ‘additional allovence only
and does not apply to skipamt of effects frou Rockville, Maryland
to Miami.

4 We hope that the above has helped to clarify the transportation
and storage of HEB in connection with a domestic PCS movenent.

BAD OF DISPATCH

|
\
|



=
TRAVEL ORD... WH-A-1024 62

| SERIE BAY, ORDER WF.

Herold R, NOEMAYER (P)
‘OFFICIAL STATION CE PE “Gabe

Washington, D.C. Contract Exployec
YOU ARE AUTHORIZE TO TRAVEL ANT CUR NECESSARY EXPENSTS IN ACCORDANE BIT REGULATIONS, Tits

TEAGAE Ok CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, 13 MADE FOR OFFAL OSES AND NOT FUR YOUR
PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

ITINGRASTY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE

Travel fron Washington, D. C. to Miemt for Pcs.

__AUTOMOBLE ALLOWANCE

TRAVEL OUPATION PER DIEM ALLOWANCE

CENTS Pee wi 7S Pe 7
pram eS ane ee Betis TRE
20 rug. | 20 aus 6aly meson | Jonge Se tein | | SRR SES | Bisblcrou

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

Eote:

Subject picked up in the ficlafrom TOY status for FCS,

1 berenoener Tanne aUTHORTIED srocuee FeunpostaTion #1] Witmaito Conv GF TaTIT
wns [ents oF wary) exuvovine | | tanpostanion srootsr
[essi on ormea None
buirosition oF eretcTs —

AUTHORIZATION

sunemcet | | CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILASLE
r =| =e |e
‘accommanite | waccowamse | _ 535-5000-£021

ts ano move | us. ano move | Gusce cost cemite nO.

T-102h

[accompany TRavetse [_sovance of FUNDS mrouEsTED bare SIGNATURE OF 8 GF OFFICER
[rouov vinue 6 mowTat [oer Taccourtnes ous oar
‘ADVANCE RETURN Tro 1 —— | 1 Nov. a :

: COORDINATION = T a RE rae EIN Orr Toe
16 Cag 123M) P. Cyrus | chia/¥fss
| Let F Ente GIAWTA
or
———— —

Raford W. Herbert

De /wHp

i
|
|
i
|
:
i



cenord
RY quanto

souganives coe
| can RD mtd eG

Chief of Station, JLSAVE
JUATE/ADWOH = Pranspartation and ‘Temporary Storage of HEE

ACTION REQUIED LEMONS

dotion Required: As stated
References HR 22-110(1)

1. Please advise for what poriod reinbursenont is allowable in each of the
following instances of temporary storege of FE which preceded the individual 'e
eotual PCS assignments to JUZAVE on 20 August 1961:

ld Re BOE: In anticipation of being ausigmed PCS to JIVAVE
HEE in temporary storage in Alexantria, Virginia on
epprarimately 1 July 1961 from whance they vere shipped to Kiant on
22 Septonbor 1961. ‘The date of tha personnel notion assigning NOUR
PCS JE/AVE is unknom. The date af his PCS travel order is wiknown.

Milligan D. CEQEAD - In anticipation of being assigned PCS TNAVE WEXEEAD
placed his INS in transit storage in Washington, D. C. on 27 July 1961 fren
whence thay vere chipped to t4amt on 24 August 1961. ‘The date of the pergon-
mel action assigning “EMTAD PCS JREAVE ia unknown. His PCS travel order
epproval date ia illegible.

2. Cases have erisen which are not specifically covered ty regulation.
Please advice vhat reinburcenent is allosable unler ER 22-11a(3)b and attechnent 2
in eesh of the following circumstances: E

A. Explayea on PCS transfer fron Sashingtan, D.C. to Miami carried 543 Pounds
of effects in his POY. A proper weight certificate was obtained. There was

Be cost to euplayoe,
Be Employee rents a trailer on vhich hie HHE are hauled betveen domestic
PCS points incident to his PCS transfer, Cost to employee. was only for
trefler rent.

C. Explayee rents and drives & truck containing his HEP tetroen dosestio
PCS points insident to his PCS transfer. Cost to employes is truck rental

—_
DeSPATOH SMBOL ARD ROMER

J



Lyset ctmereeees

ere:

SECRET
Page 2

TO! Chief, WD SUBJ+ Transportation and Temporary Storage of MIE UFGT-910

3s A question has been raised on how to interpret the rate tables in
Attachment 2 to HR 22-11. For exomple, the mileage fron Wephington, D.C. to Miami,
Florida io 1,111 niles. In chipping 4,000 pounde of effecte bettors, thene pointe
fo the euplayee entitled to reimbursenent at the rate of $11«70 os $12.00 por hundred
Soight? In addition, reinbursanonte vhere minimum welght allowances coour are not -
clear. | 9 ensue that in the case where 350 pounds 18 billed ns 500 the employee is
entitled to payment far 50 hundrodweight at the applicable rate. However, in tho case
of a shipment from Rookville, Karyland to ldani shere 650 Pounds shipped ie billed es
3,000 pounds what reiabursement 1s in onler? IR 22-11, atteohaene 2, mentions a
2,000 pound minimum only in reyard to Pishers Island, Yew York,

4+ Your early reply will be appreciated.

END OF DISPATCH

t

i
i



a ROUTING.

© DIRECTOR
FROM 6 JMWAVE
ACTION

SEP 20 16192 61

+ WH 5, 9/62

“DIR CITE WAVE 7983.

SH2IP ADNIN ; : . .

REF A DIR 67039 (Gour™ ewig). eee feciOme
B DIR 7781 Cour 2 3cHe) SS

"Gg WAVE 7658 (frase) + al ‘ Sioa

IN VIEW PACT NESSRS DEAN, CROZIER IN TEMPORARY QUARTERS -

W/o WHE AT TINE DESLONATION PCS 22 AUGUST, REQUEST AUTHORITY

TERWINATE PER DIEM ABOVE INDIVIDUALS ON DATE ARRIVAL HKE BUT NOT

“BEYOND 28 SEPTENBER 1961.

lle enw en)

END OF MESSAGE
C/S COMENT: RE EXTENT PER DIEM REQUCTIONS.

HAN bed haste OFAct ° PROHIBITED, besshie

| vant cette Te Dole Me £60
{
ff

REPRODUCTION BY OTH



Sri ’

15 September 1961

SERORARDUA TOs Career Agent Panel rs
+ Asotensont of Harold 1, Nomar

Approval 1s requested for the PCS aosignont of Boenyer
to GHAVE, a dezestic base. Subject will be utiliced as on
Ope Officer in Pi/Propegands activities in eupport of
Project JUTE, It to antloipated thet Rosayer vill receive
4 cover salary (offset) during the period of thiu assigunent.
Such offeot would not exceed his net Agenay compensation.

[Si ialssd W. Herbert
J.C. E156
Chief
Vastern Sentephere Division
Distribution:
Original & A - Adiroases
2 = CAE
1
X= WB/i/Pereonne)

WB/,/Perscanel:RPOTLIS1jtr (15 Septesber 1961)

Dor-/e sre)

SECRET



«(1524 ane as
‘one, BY Pr. ae CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
tuna. WH/,/PERSOMNEL SECRE®
vets 4032
toate: 8 SEPTEMBER 1961
To . SWWAYE

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONK
INFO. WH 5, S/c 2

10 INFO. : Cite OR ae er
Ls a 1096.
Se iri
SP VILL ‘WAVE PCS, IF RECESSARY ERNIE Hos FoR
-ESSTNG ‘SHOULD BE SCHEDULED WITH STAFFERS. i

BD oF MESSAGE :

Fos. xia

'‘ RERCOUTIN BY TE HN EEN ome oe

sian



isis) :

SEGR ;

i

i

i

28 dune 1962 i

WEMORARDUM FORS Contract Persone] idvision

SUAECT . Amendment of Contract, case of lerald R. ROUCR i

It 48 requested that the Contract for Subject, as ananded, be
further ananded to discontinve thet portion of the "Compensation" section A
which state. "You vill reevive additional compensation, ancunting to £80,00
per month, effective 4 Janvery 1%1, in lieu of payment of the regular
grertine rates for irrguler, unscheduled and frequent overtins, for the
Curation of this essig-mont", It is requested that this discontinusnes be
effected C.0.3. 10 June 1961.

EZADERT V, TUL ’
Chief, ¥H/4/Personnal
AFPROVEDS

YD ?, crn
Clef, YE/4/Supzort

dos-/6 55]

Giese atigie eee



Mr. Harold &. No

ayr
Dear Mr. Nesmayr:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government,
as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 June 1957, as amended,

Effective close of business 10 June 1961, that portion of Paragraph two (2)
entitled ‘Compensation ‘ which portaine to the authorization of additional compe:
sation in the amount of $80 per month {a deleted in ite entirety.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain fa
full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY.

Contracting Officer

BI VetF FF



aN . $s) IED [Nese -
ORG: Jom H, MaRTIRYE CUASSIFIED IME? BE
SECRET

To WAVE INFO cre EK BELL 0391
JMZIP ADMIN i iu
REF: WAVE 6491 (IN 2592) *

FREMIUM PAY FOR SUBJ REP WILL BE DEPOSITED IS BANK SETWEEN 23 - 27 JUKE
IN AMOUNT $343.36 NET, COVERING PERIOD 8 JAN. THRU 10 JUNE.

es. ~~.
RAD OF MESSAGE
Wi cogmy: * =
4
(wu /4,/PIH loc EZ.
s/i/4/ SUPPORT
7 SOOTDINATING OFPFiceRs

ere cy eee

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. “Copy No.

_ DOr-168 FFI



7 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
i?

SMMAVE,

ACTION: BELL 15
Cop, AdoP/A, WH 4, BELL s/c

BELL
UMZIP ADMIN FINANCE
H RE WAVE 5287 (1N 1907)*

j ADVISED DATE PREMIUM PAY TO BE PAID HR ROSS CROZIER,

i
i
'
1
i
i

END OF MESSAGE N
CS COMMENT: * REQUESTED CONTRACT BE AMENDED TO PROVIDE FOR PREMIUM PAY, + ves

Catt

Do (6FT!
REPRODUCTION BY OTHR THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED, Copy No.

fakin near ee anette eee A ee tay nae et



FSEMORAEDUN Fore

4 Mey 1961

Contrast Personne) Division
Anondsont of Contract, casa of Korcld Ry BOUTR

Te a requested thet the Contract far Subject, os exanied, be

asonded

"You vill receive edditiona)
effective 8 January 1%1, in
for irregular, umscbeduled

esoigrment.*

to reflect the following addition:

coupensation, emounting to $80.00 Por noxth,
lieu of payzont of the reguisr overtisn rates

and frequent overtine, for the duration of this

MERBORT V. JUUL
Chief, WI/4/Perecnnal

eTpRT
ey

Rll

Do/-/en sts

i
i
i



oy

J

« . 322
pate 1 2 MAY 61

-7O 4 BELL
!
{

FROM 4 WAVE

Lactons Gus.

“INro. g COP, ADDP/A, WH, BELL s/c

IN 1136

Po BELL CITE VAVE 5979
JSUZIP.

WILL CALL CHOADEN OW ARRIVALS

£8D OF MESSAGE

Fae ii

e pr i

cx ‘ ‘ }
a ; ;

doy. /brr Fi

- : |

apes vaaeereng gg genaasasnengeoe naan



Aan CLASSIFIED MESSAGR':3 |) :
ERVIN W. SQUCDT OU i
De /at/u/SUPPOOT ;
nz yn |
6 APRIL 1961 i 5 H

— SAVE

COR, SOUR /A, WM 3, vob oft

ihn naan’ alld can ic wien matecnnte

a WAYE INFO CITE OX RELL, 962

SMZIP ADMIN : 5
4
REP: WAVE 5287 (Ti 1907)® Peers

PER RSF REQUEST CONTRACT WILL BE AMEXDED TO ADD $90 MONTHLY EFPCTIVE
6 JANUARY FOR DURATION THIS ASSIG@MERNT.

EMD OF HESSAGE

WE CQCENT: aRequest Nocnayer's contract be amended effective 8 Jamary 1961
to provide Tor prexiua pay.

gee

Jot-/er9T!
oreps

EXVTH W. SOOODG
Do ay/i/sugport

: am
tom y
sovernncsnnsg OM

seamen ere me

eereasine ovrreae



7

TO + BELL

FROM 4s RaWAVE

ACTION: BELL 15, : WV
INFO 3 coP, ADDP/A, WH 3, BELL s/¢

GAPREY Ci12zZ

IN 1907

‘BELL CITE ¥AVE 5287
| dHZIP ADMIN gy
| OREF a vave sea Cin oan y
B UFGS 6284
© UFGS #285
1. IN REPLY PARA 3 REF Bz
3A. YES
3B. YES

3c.

IB

INSCHEDULED, IRREGULAR DUTY FAR EXCEEDS MININUM
REQUIREMENTS STATED REF C. HE HAS BEEN SO QUALIFIED SINCE BEFORE
INCEPTION PREMIUM PAY ARRANGEMENT AND WILL SO CONTINUE THROUGH OPS

3. REQUEST HIS CONTRACT BE AMENDED EFFECTIVE 8 JAN 1961 TO
PROVIDE FOR ibanitlas PAY.

END OF MESSAGE

t : Dos /6 8 FF,

Ve REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TH,

Pa aap oa ne ee

*C/S_COMENT: 7 [ANS TORDED CARSTHILTRAFED:| VIA OPI
OL
a oll

|. CLIMAX SAME AS WAVE STAFF EMPLOYEES. =e
ane -

ROUTING i



eae coat ~ SECRET =» =

i . {EVEN WHEN BLANK)

NS) 38055 B Date
3 April 1961

OP Concer y
1 DO HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IN MY MAT HEFRE
Ord yY UNEFEDISTATES-GOVERNMERT: | WILL USE THE FOLLOWING SIG.
NATURE WHERE REQUIRED:

Rawr THUMB Print

Roger T. FOX

WITNESS:

SECRET

i

Jo/- 64 FEF



‘ “ SECRET ~:

F (EVEN. WHEN BLANK)
NSD 38055 A Date Hh

3 April 1961 it

1 DO HEREBY DECLARE THAT MY TRUE AND LEGAL SIGNATURE IS:

QL Lo Cun pe Ricuy Tame Print

Rose L. CROZIER

WITNESS:

i



: : heen i,
is anes

.. (BISPAYCH | =

f ~_Guef of Dros, raure
we

See
(pre

: riety Wi Mrfeten

i [aaa

CROZIER
RTO QED

ERP WAVE 4698 (ny 4338) doted ward 1982,

om Tho cantrect of
TR fa noted that tho
and 69 provicica fo
not cpply abeve G31
catrach types,

2. Th epproval of Froxi
25.261 which pernite euch pay
enomts of irregular, Unscheduled orertize, night ead halider duty, Coe
Soquaatly certifications vere Tecoived frox supervicers et Beadquarters
attosting to thoea oligihie ond 1a the f1el4 all staffars were pro:

Fak? PAY Pertot when ho ip no longer subjected to such duty, Oo catract
types, 18 ts casgoated, therefore, that overall aspects be considered ouch
ear

a Je hie duty ant ealary ciailer to a staffer rocatving this
catitlenesty

. 1s the parled ef tine proyesed fay the duty 30 Gaye oF i
leegert 7

Interna) Distribution:
2 + Wa/s/Surport
Ld WV//Roglotry

i
a
sf



CONTINUATION OF tdi ated
seit BecaEt Bras ~ 284

GO. Does evgcenting applteation te this esse latieste thet this
should te dono on all other matreuct types in thie grate
area and

a, Does tho cerrent and proposed dxty ontitle bin te this
edditicaal pay?

Upen review of this additions] infernation, If you feal an oquivalart
Gompentetion should ba effected, tas curs xill be considered for posaible
cwentaeat fer sprrovel ty the coutrest officer of mar ergealsatiia,

Additional details cerscrning pa: souns] eatitlensnie ere being fermrted
vader eepsrate cover, .



14-0000

CONFIDENTIAL

- Agency ond organisational Ceulgnoronr

D. IwH

‘4. tmoloves’s some (ond souel wecwty cco eumber when @pprapiarel

Grade ond wlory

$9, 215

flv 22 March 61

Te tiene
dete

‘eatens LWORT
walling perlod.

STANDARD FORM NO.

STEN SSeS sn : . PAYROLL CHANGE SLIP—— DISBURSING OFFICERS COPY

pitR ra aitnanee he AREER 8.

wh



. aim CLASSIFIED MESSAGE Cand

+ 6
DATE +21 MAR 61
To a BELL

_ FROM MAAVE, WAG WAR 21 200h2 61-

fee

INO 4 COP, ADOP/A, WH 3, BELL S/C

i Za

i IN 4338

: TO BELL INFO CHE WAVE. 4698

i SMZIP ADMIN a sate

REQUEST MR ROSS CROZIER'S CONTRACT BE AMENDED TO INCLUDE PAYMENT FOR ~~

PROJECT PREMIUM ALLOWANCE. ADVISE WHEN PAYMENTS TO BEGIN,

! END OF MESSAGE

!

j

pth fa 7fel i

i }

| : -
#

HE

Ee NA ARI SaaS oo a

i

S-E-C-R-E-T
BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED,

REPRODUCTION



+ BELL

I'-Acnon, Ts0 2

am} CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

INFO. ¢ COP,

‘AOP/A, BELL 15, WH 3, ‘BELL’

Vif = NAME Fox, =~ =! =

<a

Cgeeeeeeemerteteces Ennragreeeesnn

Foe \
PLS REGISTER ALIAS, ROGER T. FOX’ FOR PSEUDO JHAROLD Ret]
: aoe . =

| eis 2. “SUBd KNOWN AS FOX yo OPS CONTACTS. -

Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING “OFFICES “PROHIITED,

BM Hib RDN ie it



a
‘Mr. Harold R. Noemuyr_ »)
Dear Mr. Noem:

Reforence is made to your contract a

Ath the United States Goverament,
ae represented by the Coutracting Officer,

effective i June 1957, as amended.

Effective 8 January 1961, and to continue for tho duration of your curront
f eoignment, paragraph two (2) of subject contract, entitled ‘Compensation te
7 lamended to authorize additional compencetion in the amount of $80.00 per
jmonth in recognition and compensation of the irregular, unscheduled and

fq frequent requirement of hours of duty over and above the regular and daily

? schedule.

|, All other terms and conditions
fall

‘ of the contract, a amended, remain in
é force and effect. :

3 UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
fs

fi

f BY 5

p Contracting Officer

«
frst eA

‘ MART
ese ANE remnEMpe HNN

hye


3 July 1963 i

i MEKORANDUY FOR: Chief, Contract Personne] Division
i SUBJECT : Termination of Contract - Harold R, XOQEMAYR:

It 18 requested that the contract for Career Agent |
Harold R. BORKAYR, as amonded, effective 1 June 1957, be

terminated upon close of business 30 September 1963. Subject

{ was advieed of this teraination on ] July 1963, and the 90 days
' actual notice required by para. 15 (2) of the contract i
expires on 30 Septenber 1963,

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief, Special Affairs Staff

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee

i
i

1

i

!

ies

7 DDP/SAS/PERSONNEL/ John H. Martin/kct (3 July 63)
| 1 - SAS/Personnel

nN

4

‘pigactstnecesss ings etn atten tanta nem A A



NOTIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENT
OF MILITARY COVER BACKSTOP

Corrrerrrry

10 Cano no.

MttiTany coven eacestor CstasLisuo

(oPwrwo 20-200.31)

@. TEMPORARILY FOR _____ DAYS, EFFECTIVE _

“bY CONTINUING, EFFECTIVE

SUBMIT FORM 642 TO CHANG!

E LIMITATION CATEGORY TO 3.
(4B 20-500.2)

ASCERTAIN THAT AFMY W-2 BEING ISSUED.
(ap 20.661-1)

X| SUBMIT FORM 1322 FOR ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS COVER,
(8 140-280)

X| SUBMIT FORM 1323 FOR TRANSPERRIKG COVER RESPONSIBILITY.

(8 240.250)

[roars

Dor-

7icorr 10 exover

DISTRIBUTION: 1.05D/0SUV/1-PS0/05, 1-ADPD/COMPT

