# 104-10128-10151

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10 128-10151

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO

1

2

3

4

5

6

SENDER WILL CHECK CLA

TICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

cONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

De/sAs

mr manda

DATE

6/12/69

INITIALS

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

(3) Suess this as trough

for now, is it tentay

enemarts de sonna

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Ony

Do Not Reproduce

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

A MANE ADORES AND ANONE NO

UNCLASSIFIED

I CONFIDENTIAL T

rorM No 237 Use previous editions

GPO: 19680-297-542

DATE

6116/e9

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 2

4-00000

TO

:

FROM :

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL, FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITI

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Deputy Chief/Security Research Staff

E. Mendoza

RICCIARDELLI, Libero

#348295

DATE: 13 June 1969

c/1s14

1. Reference is made to memorandum of 12 June 1969,

#428 596. According to a notation

by DCS on their listing of available reports regarding the 1963

Conference of the International Federation for Automatic Controls,

held in Basel, Switzerland. one of the sourges on the conference

apparently was

_cerospace, CorD.l, who was

related in some way tr

or to the

debriefing by DCS.

2.

4409 988 - BZ, and C-300562,

Or has been of past interest to DCS, to SR Division, under the

AE-HOLLY Operation. and to DO/SR. File indicates an unresolved

question as to whether

s identical to a Communist of

the same name in Michigan.

AE

3. In December 1963, 00/C advised PSD that

who had been in correspondence with Soviet scientist Alexis G.

IVAKHNENKO, reported that IVAKHNENKO, mentioned he had

been a next door neighbor of the American defector, Libero

RICCIARDELLI, in Kiev, In October 1963, IVAKHNENKO had asked

that

write a welcoming letter to RICCIARDELLI, who had

left the USSR for his home in Massachusetts, and that the Soviet was

interested in learning of RICCIARDELLI's "destiny" after he arrived.

It was obvious from the content of the report that RICCIARDELLI was

continuing in correspondence with IVAKHNENKO after he returned to

the U.S.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

GROUP

scluded from automat

SECRETL

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payrou Savings Plan

3010-108

---

## Page 3

14-00000

4. DCS suggested in this connection that the former

defector might be a valuable source of information on

IVAKHNENKO, having lived next door to him for a few years.

15

5. As of 1966,

vas still in communication

with IVAKHNENKO, ana copies of the correspondence were to

be turned over to the FBI through PSD.

E. Mendoza

ca

EM/ark

2

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

1. BUBJECT'S LAST NAME - FIRST NAME - MIDDLE NAME

RICCTARDEAL, Libero

NIMI

2. ALIASES

None

6. FULL NAME OF SPOUSE, DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH, CITIZENSHIP

Norma

NO.

63

M5-8295

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

8

June 1917 Needhem, Masse

в. БЕХ Б.

CITIZENSHIP

USA

7.

FROM

то

Present

RESIDENCES (Including No., and Street, Zone, R.P.D., etc.)

COMPLETE ADDRESS

33 Miles Road

Needhan, Massachusetts

[ CONTINUED

8.

FROM

то

EMPLOYMENT

NAME OF EMPLOYER

Not yet employed

COMpLETE ADDRESS

I CONTINUED

9.

FROM

то

EDUCATION (High school, college, graduate work, etc.)

NAME OF SCHOOL

Needham High School

DEGREE OR MOR

Two (2) years

[ CONTINUE..:

10. ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING FULL NAME, CITIZENSHIP DATA ON PARENTS AND CHILDREN

None

I CONTINA.....

FORM 100 USE PREVIOUS

-

=--

---

