# 104-10182-10071

## Page 1

-00000

104-10182-10071

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

GOSH SHINOT CHEATTE 0: 42646511071013

STAFF MITT

FILL TITLE, MUMERAOLOR:

(I4 I.)

#11-35921

-=

INCLUSIVE DATES: 12U 1002-1300 DEC. 1923

CUSTODIAL. UNIT/LOCATION:

DELITIONS, IF AVY: CREEN AELCY REPORTS (FRI, ETC.)

TATI:

TATT

REVIAMEN TRY

PRCHIVED RETURNED

(PHINT NNI:)

3/3/28

513/78 CAN HANdWAY

SIGNATURE OF

REVIBUING OFFICIAL.

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPILD OR REMOVED FROT THIS FILE.

0166

---

## Page 2

VOLUME II: January 1967 - September 1973

CLOSED

SEE VOLUME III:

January 1974.-

12.47

---

## Page 3

DISPATCH

chich, li barisses

CUSSARADON

SICRET / RYDAT

Chief er asian lee INN

PROCISSING MICH

по по0Uсь 1120I0

1001OUES1O 0H

ACTIN: FYI

D-1-51

d.

station pissed referenced inforiation

20.iusi0.s

0! 13

Septenher 1973.

Initial

circel's ir;

tire

statior

citie

tie 1.l..

DrA, and

Custo.ts

revcalet no incornation on ti

individuals

Mentionee

i11

referoice (Donald

Jolin

¿olo

г. 0 win):

•Custo.s

N3.5

11 aprecient viti

tile

seation's suggestion that a Custors

telenliono number

5:00l1

" passed to lenry and tlie case

should lie pist into: custo.s

lory called Custors on 13 Coptenver 1973.

was

arrined for that afternoon.

cfore tic

soetin..

100!.

il lustus officer recognized the nare of

place, loverosilly beinono of lis contaces:

lienry was

two Custo"s officers

In returnin: fro: their

electint, tlie Custons officers

notified the

station,

and a

nicotini lias arran;

on lit rententer

1073.

Custens proviced the followin; inforsation on

Donald ilenry.

a.

Donald lienry is stout 52 ycars old.

l'c is from

ichigan.

11c

• livcu

alid went to school in

Canada.

ile novcu

• to flordid shout fifteen

yoars 2y0.

has resided in tie

leys for about seven yoars.

•l0.

Henry was descrilci by Customs as a bratart.

ites felt, however, that

his offer of assistance was

genuine.

Puscos seated tril

renty always bad a quic

answer for ity

question asted of tir, but when

the questions kot duin to

specifies his answers ver: value.

c.

Contrary to initial infornation, lionry docs not

hass i lont or an airplane.

lustons noted, thou;s, that

¡chry probably

has casy

access to one.

pithur does icuty

Miave

an

lan license for flyin

multi-engine aircraft,

altiuu;."

he eold custons

he was capable

of

flying

theii.

Henry las

liroois (an alias user' by

one Join

ith ur)

/continuer/

aconsist sit on!

ДАЛ

12 Centerior 1N7;

CASETICANIOR

CC.07 / 11.08

Vir-11-11/5

APERTURE CARD

REPAODUCTIONA

---

## Page 4

doin

alour is desertled in furtior

Jerril

¡sOc

trie

hit tra

shroud

ilbur

1::

:1a.:1.

snore lenty. his inad

fir sond

is

trices).

involved

51008

file.

i: illardis Hive

¿curd (no titarion

U580

is .:.

unsavory churacter

litter

activi

¡es in! bould not lesitaro

"ets

da!.

J.

tic

'alan: i:

nuo:st

liidy's

they

recently.

suc! sturecal tal. in,

coul.

11!0

roney.

iliver

tiat. lie (onro)

rul!

coul-i

50.0:1:1c

uris

for

dile.

licy siarted.discu:sin:

conversat

that

Mossalidity.

8':r

• isi ed Millar mio de rould le roriin:

mentioned tire mic of

i0uo

tie told

•CUTY THAT

a?

crad

ex"pecial forces bad. priy

set

liranch of

jefense jysto.s.

itchell

Inc..

o1.11:260

Maod for

lil.

..aliur also intimeed thie

noted

0:

cie operation ani

condoned it.'

Custois

tiat l cHry

nil not pick up the narc

i0l,o

until

after

ricy had mentioned n

loint

profesied to rementor his

special forces rajor, at trich

na::c.

nenry also told

called

Custons,

tit do mild telephoned the

jil first and

was told ir

thit is infor.cation

was not

diction

in

ticir juris-*

and

was

!"cr.ry

two phone nude? for lull idlis.

chanicu

Later.

story tu the cirect that he said he looled

in

his

called

relepione diructory do vet tie Fei's number and

mut) insicad because the

lattor's

las

under

(Comine.

..ot

true,

nuiver

nothi nunbers aro

listed under

interr.out but ou separate pages.)

..

.!s

for

Joil "rools, custois

repurred that this mane

is an alias unod

by one

ol!!.

rru..

loin

"il'ur, Nio is sunut 35 years

for

assachusetts,

•ilbur has licen

flori:

e has wech in touch with custons for

taroe joars.

las iniciully brou;it to

rustons"

netention

over i narcotics cose. at the tir,

li7s

no; in fifor int for tire fil, infiltratin;

and lot

Nó118':

yout., oracientiors.

pot!:

•o ras 1150 dati.

fros

out:

striaries suo noo Involved in narcotics suit.

licracy

•ilnur Coind out irvout suis

activily.

ine"

tul.

the 111

die, in flori, list bains in told lila

solder or Torescr

an ultro-right vince aul

16 inpressive loo!in..

allo a siuntie

is an

untioned that

ilbur would road an article

and sontly turonicer douli try

• loud. also contact custodi

ruor tie dcard in toc

tand ie coul collice i robird.

sili tirt alliOU!r

ill: rid. ur

b: is dcn.cro.rr and loul:

the tartant contices

mut likes to

¡got alone cal:

i.: to

Torin roperty to to doys Code.

•iratoo lint sio reccites

it'l)

CLASBIAICATION

• 052

100.

530

USE ARCHIOUS EDITOS

¡ COMTIMURO

PAGE NO

i..:

---

## Page 5

CONTINUATIO: OP

DI3FATCH

SECRET / RYHAT

DIDATIN TIMONI ANU NUUDE

'' 4-1399

slimony and supposodly has about 5400.00o in the bank.

She

H3'S

scE

Wilbur

an apartuent an!

furnisticg lin with

sicidling moncy.

custons also said that. ilbur seens to bo

sort of

varanoid l that he constantly rentions buillali,

• not

riiidea as suco but relerian:

to

it as

Coliny.

"the

driving forec lohind icrocracy," and so

forth.

Accordine to Custors, tilbur began workin, for

Inderwatcr

sports of erica;

Florida,

35 a

Salcsian

in

the

carly:

1001's.

At thic

reported Custous.

Under-

water sjort, wab

concerning

Juring preparations for tie

bay of lilys.

The

last contact Custons had with illur has about three rocks

ago. • They plan to see hin main in tie next few days and

vill

acco ipt to get his siue of thie story.

7.

Custo:s

statod that in spite of the inconsistencies

lcrry's story tley felt ho wis natir, a logitinte

offer

to assist and thus auvised lin to proceei along the folloting

1lncs:

he-contact lilbur and tell hin that he was

proparco to fly aris to duaco, but lie would lavo to see the

frot. moncy' first.

Custor:s

commented that if illur

produces the monay.,

they would have a casch

if not, the whole

episodo

could probably be chalked up to tilbur's-delusions.

b.

ifter re-contacting tilbur and if i'llbur cones up

with

the

necessity of

If a dry run is not possible, the

ic

is to go alicad with tlic opcration.

rrests woulu be mau

by Customs in tie States

after the ares hive

been placed in

tho alicraft ind after the personmol involved have boardod

the

plane.

•3.

customs has pronised to

keep

the station apprised of

thic

case,

especially

it pertains to tic

Bahamas

and otter

arcas

the

liaribbcan.

Now С. Тротивыи

Mvin C. THON BRUI

BERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

CLARSUICATION

REVIONS EDITION.

П.

---

## Page 6

4-00000

*:%:

D20l-2511ie

5-50.-116152

1-1920

6- 201-16947.3

ZAPOCATE COPY

FOR. CRO3S FILING IN

201: 254910

---

## Page 7

14-00000

17 Septoroco 1973

sja donrdra mcecad.

Teisioid dins dlipcio.ta

in doie-co

Isinsc,

whanas

?iurust lord

sait :

invc.vias

o, aivia

2.035208 J150:

OSE"

ii tio

otrricalt,

snnepontación ci

...à.

a va

c..in

1?n':"

Cr,

C.tiy

iC.G

aCeEts

10:

RECORD COPY

3JONT

sta-i!

---

## Page 8

14-00000

= :

loviar

Microtion coterati:"

RESIDENT E PIONEER RICiUNGE NE

E22M02

=

---

## Page 9

14-00000

t..rv

jwoar

i3u.

SSONET/RNDNY

200-11-1115

2.65

---

## Page 10

4-00000

FBI document dated

12 Sept 1973 from Miami

Re: Mitele! Livingston Were II.

Edwir Marger

Internal Security-Balamas

Neutrality Matter. Bahamas

Bureau file: rim 105-2/382

---

## Page 11

FBI document dated

27 July'7:3 Frim Miami.

Subject: mitchell Livineston Wriell, II.

Edwin Marger

Internal Security-Salames.

Neutrality Matter-Bihamas

Bureau File- MiM

105-21382

---

## Page 12

From tacum, E dated Saul 73

Subject: Mitchell Livingston. Werbell, IIII

Edwin. Marger

---

## Page 13

FBI document datee

3 July 33 froom: New York

Mitchell Livingstinter BIll III

Edwir. Marge,

Internal Security - Bahamas

---

## Page 14

FBI document dated

25

Ture 13. from New York

Subject: Mitchell Livingston ler Bell III

Edwin Mianger

Internal Security-Bahamas

---

## Page 15

Esi cable dated a July

1973

DIRECTOR

62108665 (6928-73)

from: miami

105-5082

Re: Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III

Edwin Nargr

Internal Security-Bakamas

Neutrality Matters-Banamas

---

## Page 16

FBI Cable

2 July: 1973

(4/28/73)

To- Acting Drecter (62-105665)

FRom-Atlanta (105-5052)

Re: Mitckell LIvingston Werbell III

Edwin Marder.

1s- Bahamas

Neutrality Mutters-Bahamas

---

## Page 17

F6I

16 Quise

62-108665

Be: Equin Bargoe;.

Michele Fingo Perdere !Il

Paterna decurity bahamas

---

## Page 18

itch WerBel: Gunsmith to the 'Right' Side

inger lilliams

'e is escempled loy per.

Attruin magatre.

DRIESTAY

theat

hrough the country estate

rolliege lays.

They need

handome in the tradi.

nit

weapons given to him by friendly

In Operational Sogation of Insurgenty

forces In Vietnam, he said, and incy

and Counterasersion, liest in

with

were shipped to the Stales for display

Environmental Industries, and bozon

in military museums.

in earnest to develop a line at military

Not surprisingls. WerBell has often

hareware. Sons slitele N' aid Ciroll be.

been called an

operative of the

cane indetral parts of than fire, Sailet

Central Intelligence Agenes, a sharde

Il' wis alrearly à boma disa counts.

that angers hum only when ll is lev.

insurgent. do a 16seare1al.

he hacl

spent residorable time with bind in

e nuts, toady cutting But

careflie sunt and car.

sial is racle hand: the

eleed too schemently. It is not that

1oe Dominica lopullie, spectalian:

he has angthing against the ClA. He

in underaler probine for safe landing

jue decond, he raja, happen lo be

siles, Craft, too gears counter, barely

one of its bogs. His paramilitary work.

11a4ed

1alt

on a Cuban formy; his

: and a soloneer equip res

sea then other.

whod consists of advising and some-

Cather book tum do Mean a less goats

rame dirertly assisting forrign drs.

Mans, bad the plane fell througle.

cindells, le done In the employ of

Come dog a sat in Herbell's affles ind

coricher, came their la.

does minion Werkell 11l

•hat he calls son independent group

•first disregaed de sumer of clalary

of sell intentioned, patrustir

1ans." The Hereb Society? The Min.

ulemen" A bunch of forrlsht Toxos

leonalit

eut

stintor."

slaped lead three mobey lori.?

N01.1

milhonares Herbell won't may, other

1eel, ponctured the con.

bed bursts al infurin.

•Mire redle, ran of hit,

:O3118 A.

• Jhis

" fe in six months." lo

These PC look only 1.3

N1.

Twenty-resen cents

That's the

•treativom.esthe .drmp's

Mitch

MIst

round atter Found fron

no stir buile shaltered

mindle: that serves as

Mrich Began firing a

!: Arnig 15.

The was

and this noise echoud

• all tortopg. He then

wan fring is. The nut.

'll, sall the coldly sorenst

click. followed log the

el and the prop as it lat

sorrio. almost chillons.

inung Mitch seat the

mats and whippeed els

to 1e cent sucond. Crate

i kind of deranstra.

case glin, a standare

it tun and the snip.

•sHell reils she 8.8128

reunipped with a sup.

k so the house, ler.

who the supprensor.

a silencer, is so effer.

'essory, "It birdes the

1arsduees the firing

Hall on mirtal. Sou

Deal arise withou! an

anil it's not worth il.

• all noise anyway

it barely midtors, for seedreing lo

Herbell, it as all in the sorsice not only.

ul freerom and anti connunism but

al the US. government: he does not

supply or nevise or fight for regimes

not bearing the State Departmen: seal

« approval. A heasy percentage of his

merchandise goes directly do the l.s.

sovernment, which distribates it to its

rin: torpes that. need silent or exotic,

weapons.

The

balance

1s. 50lil

friendly governments;

either direclly

ur through the good officer of the "in-

dependand sroup." He says he dons not

soll to indisiduals,

nor even ll they're

certified anticommunists.

s'eribeil takes pains in point out that

he is no ordinary arins brokrt. That Is,

he is not one. of those shakony figures

who sell acapbris to both sides at exor.

hitant priers or who take possession of

contraband shepronte in the high seas.

Is: Thers ls anty one friend of thie

United States In a given orea, and we

deal anly with that.frlend."

What does WerBell peddle? A range

of fircarms from machine sung to

desk-sized cannons, from the meanest.

looking weapons to innocent looking

swanser sticke that fire a bullet or

even a small rocket; an array. of loch.

"systems," he calls hein -

that will help an American soldier or a

forcign army hold off insurgent forees,

and occasionally, his personal services.

These services present Herbell ot

his most shadows. Serving as 8 coni.

batant in the armed forers of a foreign

nation is against U.S. law, and W'erBell

is understandably reluctant to admit

having done so. He describes himself

in such torins as "raramilitary" and

"adviser." but acquaintances suspect

he has been in the thick of the fighting

a number of times. He may even have

zapped an insurgent or two.

Corporale Selly

HOLLUTEN

carlolly.

iothing

ristole area's is

Kun,

anel thre

bulled. on its

way

out. distortens is thin poless that dis.

moises the booke at the mind of the fing

barrel. HerBell commends the Stinger

10 secret agents who gee cancht with

The gonels ind must like "the las re.

sort," that is, shock themselves.

In the same exotic category lo the

• swagger. slick, bound in loither. with

silver suds By pashim: betsren two.

silas, re call dire a de or dillo a spre

cal model, a small do. det.

The body.

Luand of Donican droneman Cien.

„ninne Bandore used iles rocket mocked

do blare would be assassins a ser denis

ass, Then there Is a small, brass fitted

cannon. ll makes a handornie khick.

knark for i solor pottician's dook. It

• 1isrs.

with

ment, a badles that will quiet. an unruly

Warlott

•four aned

demangin

malimoder title these "will plus 'em in

Ise egro at 200 nielers."

The hulk of Workell's business is In

malad suppressong and Ingram Morol

submarine guns, Suppressors can be

used on

larde as soll as small wrap

ons, and to loot have been used effec

tively on the wicked-looking

Yulear

machine guns mounted on Amerlean

helicopters in Vietnam. The Australian

Army Journal can a story calling the

sionics suppressar

"superior to any.

thing previously used... (with it) it is

now possible

for the sniper to fire

from relatively short ranges. especially

when using subsonic projertiles."

Workoll is so rrthusiastie about the

Ingram Model submachine guns there

are to models. taking difterent sized

errtridges, that he predicts this sill

crentually make "obsolete every indr.

vidual weapon in the world." The U.s.

Army, he says, is row louning care.

fully at the Ingram models with an cye

loward

making them

slandard muid.

---

## Page 19

.I.1.

cr-of-fact when

he

as. and death, and

as beers in the mill.

Inous for years, and

id up produced-or

¿ walerielon sound

Litin America and

In

the U.s. armed

ramilitary "adviser."

• warrior, an arnica

agninst

"ungodly

nlone In this secupa.

¡lers it In a unique

diers of fortune are

they live from one

nell, brawling and

thrcugh a tough and

ording life.

virail, ls a business

> In milltary

adven-

nel as fur o5 ll suils

idn't sitiliate him, he

oP. 11. His Business is

s. not usind them in

duces in the Weapens

counterinsur.

•I roudhis defined

uppirasion of coups

estabilahed resimog.!:

licestorships, againss:

His pollical pasture

1 trouble Her Bell, 11

have no objrotion to

epses the trierests of

says. Particularly il

se interests is fresm

imism has no plaçe in

"unopened de endor

quints oppond in 11,

1 of idculogical gerrs

rings."

In. VerBell's nome

se The diese issue of

11 18s All Abortive: 101960.

goes n1e69988411 met

major, if uncertain.

tion, 11es18011 wan or.

led allit the blaser.

1nl horse virilee estesser,

presled were brought

la friend dur an ex.

ill replied Jauntily,

k fut

the reingony.

l you I'll never hear

Pout 1t." So far ho

WerBell

bit the

• Attenta Constitution

il of captured enorny

trum licinem was de.

Ni- Forer Base, Flor

ratnailse conjecturert

his friende moont 1o

imagine to 105ht. 1111

•it They were fuuve.

dedicated lu killing people.

tinston.

mental

Industries, WerBell say's, 18

bankrolled by some of the East's most

prominent investment houses; he.is Its

director of International operallons.

He is also president of a subsidlary

callert "filitary Armaments Co., Inc.,

and because he is in Powder Springs,

Military Armoments le there, too. (Ba.

hind Ensironmental Industries.

W'er-

Bell says, is "a third shadow of which

El. Is o subsidiary"-another tantaliz.

Ing hint of the ClA.)

Military Armaments may well be a

unique American enterprise. Nobody

olse, H'erbell says, Is In the business

of designing special purpose weapons

on such a scale. A good dool of its de-

sIgning

and manufacturing is

done

under federal Heense. Silenters. for ex-

ample, are outlawed by the Vational

firearms Act,

along

wiih nawed.off

shotguns, kubmachine guns and other

ventigue of l'rolloition era gangiand

W'erBell must pay a special lax of sino

Depariment. The T-men also check pe.

riodicalige so see that his awesome

collection. of fireaims over 200 indi.

vidual pisces-is properly registered.

Apparenily the market for suppressors

1s nut very large because, according lo

Wordell, dis firm Is the onls one su.

thorized in manulacture.them.

Werlell will not discuss the sales or

profits of Military Armoments except

lo say that, after luo years of exten.

nive research and development (result.

Ing in "a lax loss of a hall million do!.

lars"), the company'is now doing very

well. It has about 12 employces, Includ.

ing four machinists

who work under

the direcion of Gordon In'gram, who

has charge of the design operation and

whear name Is on the Morel 11 subma-

shane sun shee sound slich demon.

etrated din the trina runde.

"Callage Incluntry'

INGHAN WORKS in a ecileulspred

machine shore-lab attached to the

irain truse on the calate, which 'er.

13rlà likee tre oall "she farm." Merlsell's

ottier is nort deer lu the shop. Its walls

Dre so loaurd with wiapons that'll' ls a

wonder lhey do not collapse. Thire are

Anlarm and apar suns and platola and

riley and mactine suns, dezens and

donens if them, some purchosed, s0.71

won in combat, some presented by the

appreciative.

recipients

of W'erBell's

counterinsurgency techniqurs.

W'erBell, who has a sense of humor,

ralls his enterprise

a "cottage indus-

Irs" and likens himsell 10 "a country

doctor... I can fall out of the living

orea spstaire right down to the officc."

C'ealaire la lore sorrain al hla Ciurmon-

torn

wife

Mllegard,

pleasant,

•uray halred

WOINDn

who

has borne

uropons for the U.S. Army and asher counter

WerBell six chlidren and put up with

his rather unusual way of life. (When

he left for the Far East in 1968, he sald

he'd be gone for a ycar or more, and !

verilsing In a department store. Soon

he was head of the department, and

soon afler that he went on his own.

in the mid.'50s, WerBell pulled out

A Military Profile

min publle relations firm. "I'd already

been drifting into international PRi"

MITCHELL VERBELL IS a Short,

"using my family back-

wiry man of 32, quick with a ! round. I had tremendous contacis in

quip and quite sensible until he hegins

Furope, and I mored into the Far

talking about communism or other so

East, 100." How much of this moving

cial Issues. He has the face and benr.

WerBell won't say.

Ing of a t'russian offler, on anage lie y

but his business look on more and

cultivated by wearing a musiache and

mure of what he colls a "geopollitcal"

dresars in militory clothing of indeter-

Before long, he was dabbling

minate origin, and he embellishes 1he !

Latin. American dletatorstips.

smage by talking in slightly clipped

working closcly with Batista." He adds

with n arin, "Our function way to keep

Te has a stone rachmen Batista in power. although the US.

WerBell has a strong altachment

to weapons and to warfare, and he hos.

sovernment was looking favorably on

around them so long that the

Fidel at that point."

Ideas anil styles they foster are on in.!

From all this, even WerBell doesn't

grained part of his personality.

linow exarily how, came a passionnie

He comes by both his militarism and

concern about communism.

his anticommunism

devote whatever time I could to

lather was an officer in the Russiari

thoush he was? "it first lt was sort of a hobby, but

then il became my main drive in llie.

born in the United States: "It was a i whas i'm doing now"-here he fis.

ricky siluation," says Mitch: "He was

a citizon of both the U.S. and Russia.

tures at the arenal on his office walls

In those days you could do that."

-"affersis me a damned good living.

The elder Merlell sought against:

the Bolsheviks, but before the collags

The Heare of It

of the czarise regime he wiscly secured

an appointment' as liaison olficer be.

forces-statloned in the U.S. lie lived?

In this countrs: for the rest of his life,!

putting his carly medical training ie

still a hobby, albeit a paying hobby,

WorBell purchased the Dobbs estate.

Ho installed rudimentary design facili.

weapons of counterinsurgency, wrap.

ons he believed had the best chance of

A lexacy from father is Mitch'y

miakuined printerratle

"Conmuadam ls a subenchurion of al

peurane dictatorship uver the aristocra.

cy-l prefer the arlstocrory." Ile is

• without question an elitist... Not surpris

Analy, his rite la composed of superpol

Marbell Herball was boin Ir. Ponn

ele smell, undierdavel ped nallons of

Arin and latis America.

that In cointerinsurgenog, the prio

mary brobiem was a lock of depth. in.

weaponry, People say, 'Win the hears

of the enemy, and you'll win the lighe.

That's a loe of busl. The beist wny to

get their hearts, is they're the enemy.

is in shoot 'em and cut the hearts

American father and his Scottish born

‚mother arrived In she U.S. ot the endi

While he experimenled with weap.

of-Worin War I. His porents travrled

ons-1ula11y, to avold problems with

good deal, here and abroad, and Mitch

the federals-WerBell proceeded with

traveled with them, picking up his edu

his personal brand of geopolitics. He

cation as he went ile fot a dugice leg

made himself available to anticommu.

Journalisin .from

nist regimes that wanted help in fight.

In World War I1, he

• ing off one band of Insurgents or an-

Joined the OSS, and served with a unit

In. the process,

bchind Japanese lines In China, risiny

friendis with a number, of Latin Amer.

io the rank of captain and acquiriri o

tra's politicai strongmen, They were

cante for suerrilla-lype warfareh

diligheer 10 discover

cane atin folt os they did about the.

WerBell moved to Atlanta shorti

aller the gor and went to word in add

gimes, especially their resimes and.

from a leg

who had both the saury and the guts

to help preserve them.

Ilis first major paramililary opera-

tion was in the Dominican Republic

course, on the side of the government,

which was fending off allegedly Com.

munist insurgents; the United Stales

was on ils side, 100. WerBell wound up

midst of the fighting. He wos

second Dominican government

mion to sench the Drama livor, socne

of the major battle.

Ellsworth Bunker, then U.S. ambas-

sador to the Organization of American

highly exercised over

views on the conflict (WerBell opposed

a cessation of hostillies and establish.

considered trying

Herbell our of the country, Due mothe

ing rame of ll. Werkell's independent

whatever-saw 10 thal.

WerBell was already sctive in the

anti-Castro, movemont, and he brought

80 it a sense of dash and discipline that

the ragtag, bickering bunch of Cuban

major and Cairo exploit warn speed.

boat foray into Comerloca, on Cuba's

drop a suimmer, apparently a spy, off.

shore, and to pick up the family of an

exile leader. The boat, flying the Con.

federate lag on the radio antonna,

foundered In high seas, and the raiding

party was captured. The Cuhans, the

story goes. did not know what 10 make

of the hrash WorBell, and lie and his

pais wound up stealing a Castro boat

and apiriting some 16 anti Castroitoi

out of the country belore they them.

selve returned lee thee linkerl Stily.

Vietnam Superbank

TY THE LATH: GDs. Werholl curned

his attention to Southonat dain. sle

1a, of course.

a superhawk on Viet.

nam, and would be happy if the U.S.

wore niso lighting communisin In all

les neighboring countries. He was in

Thalland, "working

closely with the

Buppose command" for months, pro

mating the sales of his wrapons and

systems. "I showed them things like

surveillance equipment and night si

sion cquipment, stuff that lets you sur.

prise the hell out of the bastards."

Did he do any fighting himself? Wer.

Bell chuckles.

"I ain't supposed to le

shonting the stuff, just demonstrating

how 10 shoot it."

Threr yoors ago, Workoll'd weapons

buninous berase proming enough for

him to ko into le full Umac. le orrun.

•bed a firm called Sionies tor Siudies

1L8 I NEE

X3

Armaments

makes the case, tuo). cums.

plete with suppressor

and six maga:.

zines.

Businces In Burinces

DOES WERBELL feel a swinge of

consclence shout providing the.

world with such deadly and efficient

weapons? No. "I see no reason to be..

cuncerned." he says, "We're supplying

a cortain product that is unfortunatoly.

a part of the civilized world. As long as

people exist, there's solng lo be ani

arms business. I don't ace much differ:

ence between our supplying arris to.

combatants and n

house supplying kauze to bind up the

wounds inflicled."

There is his anticommunlat argu.

W'erBell is fighting the

Communise menace: it 1s a flaht that.

must be won and weapons are needled

Contrary to conleal opinion, Powder

Springs was not. nomed In honor of

Workell and his enterprise. Werißell,.

In fact, stays as alnof from the local

community or possible. His house is to

well-stocked, it is practically self-sufn.

cient save for occasional trips to the

grocery and liquor, storea. There has

been, from lime to time, antl WerBell

seeling in lowder Springs, ilerBeil de-

"The hell with it. Who caren? I

tell 'em l'm prepared to purchase their

property ll they don't like the area."

He does not suffer from loneliness.

however. There Is a strady streans ot

visitora and customera.

well as Americans. A few weeka 810

HerBella son-in-low. on Air Foree lien.

renone colonel, flew, In from 'Ohlo.

mainly to see what was new around

the shop; he hadn't bren hy in severn!

meatles, he sold, "aunt things chanee

nufully quickly around here." The das

portinent of me win pelley ennkees and

on brinkird the encing to lie kneen, or

Is grave, in Viernam..

Worlsell recalls with rollate one pari

•ticular visitor. De came from the Stale

Dopartmom a sew yoors back, and ac.

cording to Herball, he said, "The func.

llons of the forrlen polleles of the

Uniter. Staves are the busineng of the

Stale begurtmnt in Washinginn, not

licorgla." WerBell's reply?'

"You can't print lt. It was all in Anglo-

Saxin words" But that was the uld,

swa hburkling W'erBell. The ner, low.

profile WerBell says with a grin, "My

present policy in tha: I agree with that.

eneory completeis. P'erlod."

St actions to the contrary aponk ind

loudly, they, like Worksell's weapons,

ean alwave be nurgreased by the man

himself. deanwhile. atlet and his "In.

dependent bloup" march on.

11970. Allanta Stagnaleo

---

## Page 20

SECRET

ATTACHMENT TO TH #409860

TO: C/I!D

FRO:1:

SECRET

---

## Page 21

ROPIC

---

## Page 22

Garden of Eve!

EE

Eve Arden Offers A Toast - To Life! To Life!

at Polynesian Gardens

You'll like our people, you'll like our thatched huts

and waterfail and you ll love oui Million-Dollar

Recreation Building.

• LANAI GARDEN APARTMENTS • ROOF TOP GOLF

• SPA TYPE HEALTH CLUB

• BILLIARD ROOM

• BLUE LAGOON POOL

• CARD ROOM

• THEATRE BALL ROOM

• TENNIS COURTS

• LUAU AND BARBECUE AREA • BOWLING ALLEYS

Polynesian Gardens, in beautiful suburban Plantation

Croward Boulesard to 69th Avenue.

and Plansation is do Florida what Scarsdale is

Turn North to Model Apartmenis.

10 Now York, and Lincolnwood is to Chicago:

Upen Daily until o P.M.

Within minutes uf 1f outstanding Golf Courses and walking distance to the beautiful

Plantation Golf Course, cluse to fishing and boating.

LUXURIOUS ONE AND TWO BEDROOM APARTMENTS

PRICED FROM S23.900 to $36,900 TERMS TO SUIT

POLYNESIAN

GARDEN

APARTMENTS

Plantation, Florida

Just'wess of Fl. Lauderdale

Phone: (305) 791-4400, In Miami Call 947-5776

TROPIC

¡ME MiAMi MERAID SUNDAY MAGAZINE

July 1.1973

Vol: 7 No. 25

TROPIC

THE COVER - Arms dealer Michell Lin.

ingstor. Werfeli 1ld hi. es in an 001 world

al guns and idliques Among Ine guns is

his Drielease miln a burlt in machine

gun that tires snene.er lie ripht button

Is Dusned Among the intrigues is his

preseni preoccupalion mith what.hap

peris lo Abaro itic: the 8ihamas poes

independen: tars mooth. rot id loil

•s101e: turn 10 Page 18. Pholograph by

Jons Pineda.

FEATURES

8 When Kids Are Allergic To Their Parents

The treatment they call "parrintectomy".

12 The Real Exorcist

bather: Nicolo in. The Devil

18 Powder Keg At Powder Springe

Mitchell Her Hell's call 10 arms

26 Meanine Mam Meets Peking Duck

¿'ranting pres min Chinainiin

DEPARTMENTS

7 People, Etc.

29 Crossword Puzzle

JOHN PARKYN

Editor

JOMN DORSCHNER

Assestant tditor

ALLEN PIERLEONI

Arlicles Edilor

JOHN E. DAVIDSON

All Darespor

RICHARD O. SMITH

Rolagionure Manager

8B Adroutrung Oll.en tel

ephore 350 2818

#l leprevented not onally

Do knight Adverting

Solen ins, and

E Marropolcon Sundar

¿snienis 0: 1r0De cocrighl 19/3.00 Ine Miam, Mergis Pusleshing Co ad

d.s-en61 an,g91 seaspapers ins

1100K

is a lairmark regisiered in lne

US, Prient Clie of Tre Miam, Merald Publishree io Pusshes ever, Sun

gri'111 Merald Pinda Miami Gia MIll Ware piere care is laken no re

sounseDidi, is sccepied lar the damage or loss ol manusirpis or praius sub

m.it co

---

## Page 23

Photographs by John Pineda

Facing 02ge

lt wer Fel! Ml! in the

upstairs aon doom cl

his Geergia nome Behind

mill leil id rohi. are

sonin. ise Faul Routhier,

a retired A Force colonel

and presider: of We: Sell's

Detense Susierrs

Irierngional. Bennet!

E niell. Defense Systems

charman of the board: and

sen mitchall iop left:

rong elechaise: A

chorned des beil emplore

pracates litica a neason on

the Georgia esiale armory. a

Deit luckie trai doucles as a

ande sis agent 007. Mitch

MeiBen i points out Abaco

on a map otire Bahamas

---

## Page 24

POWOER

LEG AT

POWDER

SPRINGS

The flamboyant son of a

Cossack colonel. Mitchell

Wer Bell Il! has been

involved in several

Caribbean adventures

and misadventures.

Nov.

as

the Bahamas nears

independence. the wealthy

armis-dealer has.his sights

sei on Abaco ...

By William R. Amlong

"Milla ido o cer solo has too si

tadeo lir!

encima the litessia

Imputal tar He fia diver, mori

te.-

Bushentar dud noie ho sees hinwelin

aitirirs

polities

iter calciprisr

Miten Merlott irasa

Manteo ahi Salier Mair would

lei

tisr

Theta the

the sint mick ternet

math the shodd

Mintie Diferida

ha in terreras terression is that ti

!:.!!

int thie Britt

---

## Page 25

Three endormed ex-nuhtary men. ali under the eagley of terSeii line up de.

Paiget prächce ai ine Ponder Springs compound

IT'S

SANDAL SEASON

AT NANKIN'S

Revelations

presents

Exclusive Red Carper Foam Cushioned insoles.

COUPE

In White, Bone, Black

or Red Soft Leather:..

$16.

CANTARE

In Whise, Beige, Navy,

Black or Red Soft Leather.

ALL SHOES AVAILABLE IN SIZES

41012S.N.M.W&WW (AAAroEEE)

for Mail Order add S/ for Postuge &e

Handling Plus 1Gc Sale's Tax

mankins

843 Linceta Road Mall

Midway Hail

18sd SL Stop Ct. Theatre Mall

Hotly taod Mal

Baselang Stopparg Ceate

DONIONA HOLYMEN

POWDER KEG

Cantinued

nam.

nor even in one of the sugarcare

fields of South

revolutionaries

Florida, where counter-..

are

wunt to

drill

and

target-practice for yet another assault on

Castru's Cúba. Rather, he is sitting in the

upstairs gun room of his home in Powder

Springs, Ga., a 66-acre estate-armory sit.

uated

amidst the

rolling red-clay hills

and pine forests 25 miles northwest of

downtown Atlanta. It is a place where the

pastoral air is occasionally shattered by

the Mashing of a red light that goes ön

whenever the electronic gate is opened,

by the stacceto barking.of machine guns

from the test firing range or by the pul.

sating roar of a combat helicopter hover-

ing low overhead on a test flight.

It is from this base of operations that.

it appears, Mitch Werkell has been ned-

dline aeria. his time in the affairs of the

alrut-lo-ertüme surereign neute of the

Bahamas.

His activities - although no one is

completely sure just what they entail -

have prompted Bahamas Prime Minister

Lynden Pindling to denounce WerBell

and attorney Edwin Marger, an associate,

on the Moor of the

Bahamian

Parlia-

ment. Pindling called them "internation-

al fortune hunters"

with "designs on the

territorial sovereignty of the Bahamas."

Verbell's involvement in the Bahamas

—as an advisor to a faction that wants

the island of Abaco either to remain a

Crown Colony or lo become a separate

nation when the rest of the Bahamas be-

cones fully independent on July 10 -

has also prompted some concern by the

U.S.

Stute

Department's

Caribbean

Affairs Desk.

It is not a completely unfamiliar expe-

rience to Werkell to have elements of the

United States government at least con-

cerried

if not outright displeased

with some oi his free-lance foreign-policy

maneuvers.

He relishes recalling how a

visitor flew down do Georgia once lo give

him the message: "The functions of the

fureign policies of the United States are

the business of the State Department in

Washington, not of Mitchell Werßell in

Powder

springs.

Ga.

another

incident.

a congressional subcommittee

questioned

him

about

his role in

an

aloned attempt to launch an invasion of

Haiti fmm South Florida.

The subconimiter.

the investigations

arm of the House Committee

un inter-

state and Foreign Commerce, was con-

cerned with the mle played in the inva.

sion preparations by CBS Neus. The net-

work was attempting to film a documen.

tary on the military coup being planned

by an alliance of Haitian and Cuban ex-

iles.

The

Haitians

Francois

(Papa

wanted lo topple

Duralier;

the

Cubans wanted to establish an anti-Cas-

tro base in Haiti. CBS was steered into

the project by Andrea St: Georke, a free-

lance juurnalist adventurer who also in.

troduced Producer Jay McMullen to Wer-

Bell in the process.

The network, afur spending upwards.

of $170.000 on the proposed documentary,

Project Nassau, decided to scrap it. "As

it is," a CBS News vice president wrote

in a Dec. 13, 1966. memo,

"we see simply

the non-adventures of a rag-tag crew next

to whom. Duvalier bimself looks good, a

gang openly Nouting U.S. law. in the end

to no purpose.

The answers to "why" WerBell got in-

volved are, in the language of the sub-

committee report.

"at variance"

with

ench other:

Ansser No. 1:"

I telt then and 1

feel now, and I will always feel that any

effort or any activity that any American

can give to a group shat is attempting to

kill the boil and cancer of communism in

the Western Hemisphere deserves every

effort. This was my fundamental reason

for going into it. This was why I agreed to

assist them and why I did everything I

could to

assist them up to the point

where I felt the whole program was ridicu.

lous.

Answer No. 2: "I took this whole proj.

ect as a rather entertaining comedy. I'm

afraid I approached it in this connection

and I continued to do so. I felt that this

was a very amateurish attempt at some-

thing which I didn't know really what

was going on, and it was an interlude of

entertainment as far as I'm concerned."

The

role

he. played is also

uncitar.

f'mm the point that CBs entered the sit-

varion in May of 1916. VerBell appeared

at various times to be a network consul-

tant, a ClA operatise. a ClA operative

impostor, a leader of the invasion, a U.S.

governinent spy on the invasion.

& guts-

minner and a wired-for-sound observer in

an attempt to shake down the Haitian

consul in Miami for sil, 0ud io call off

the invasion.

Suffice it to say that ihe entire episnde

was typified by the face shat the 65-foot

sloop Poor richard, a boat WerBell had

leased for the expedition. was reposiersed

while WerBell and others had it docked

at the Ocean Reef morel in Key Largo.

"The hoat never had anything un it ex-

---

## Page 26

+

cept a few good. lung drinking sessions;

WerBell told congressmen.

Nevertheless.

the U.S.

government

raided the training area for the would-be

invaders, seized their arms and arrested

them in January, 1967, about two months

after WerBell hid gone home. Seven per-

sons were indicted for conspiring to vio-

late U.S. neutrality laws - including

Wier Beil.

Charges against

SVerBell,

however, were dropped

on orders

of

then-Attorney General Ramsey Clark.

WerBell now declines to discuss the

mechanica

of how the charges

ngoinst

him were dropped, except to say that he

was "in constant contact with the govern-

ment" during his participation in. the in-

vasion altempt and that he "did nothing

wrong." In 1970, however, Werßell told

an.Aliante magazine writer.

"When you

work for the company, they take care of

you."

"The company" is generally used as a

euphemism

for the Central Intelligence

Agency — an arm of goremment WerBell

says now he has never had anything to do

with, except to sell it some guns.

The

compary he was talking about, he says,

was CBS. Over the years, however,

Wer-

Bell has spoken often. of his association

with the Company. Producer MeMollen

quoted W'erBell to the congressmen as say-

ing he had "previous experience" with "the

company:"

•And when I asked him what

company he meant, he said the CLA," Me-

Mullen said.

"Everybody always pets that impression

about any goddam thing ue do.

" WerBell

say's. It is a conclusion shat is neither

difficule nor illogical. it may nor, however,

be accurate.

Bur what.

then, was Mitch WerBell.

wearing camouflage fatigues and a shoul.

der-holstered rocket pistol, doing in the

lead tank - which is where he claims he

was — in the Dominican Republic that

summer of 1965 as guremment forces dou-

ble-timed it to the Ozama River? The

lanks were attempting to capture as much

territory as possible before a noon cease-

fire look effect: instead, they were beaten

back by ill-armed rebels at she bridge.

TROPIC-JUdy 1: 1973

Or what asshe doing in Vietnam in

1963, with what WerBell claims was "the

simulated rank of major general" supplied

by the U.S. Air Force as he demonstrated

his firm's revolutionary silenced sub-

machine gun to a South Vietnamese gener-

To questions such as these, WerBell's

standard reply is. "I guess I'm just lucky."

More than jusi luck, however, WerBell's

propensity for being in the crucial place

at the crucial time seems to stem from a

combination of machismo, the proft mo-

sive, i knack for developing sume lily raul.

ical weaponry and a plug-in to the Oid Boy

Network.

The Old Boy Network - "And don't you

ever kid yourself that there isn't such a

thing," says WerBell - is the cloak-and-

dagger types" answer to the union hiring

hal!. It is a lonsely structured help want.

ed-situation panted grapevine. "I became

friends with a bunch of guys who are now

four- and five-star generals," recalls Wer-

Bell of his days as an OSS captain behind

Japanese lines in World War I.

Memorabilia of the OSS days and sub-

sequent

adventures hang in

W'erBell's

home and in his psiche. The walla of buth

his

upstairs den and downstairs

"war

roum"

are decorated with dozens of hunt-

ing (upstairs) and military (downstairs)

weapons. Sis unsheathed

swords

are

mounted on the dour of the liquor cabinet.

Two glase display cases in the den, each

locked,

contain handguns ranging. from

standard

.45

automatics to single-shot

assassination pistois.

Daggers,

bayonets

and throwing knives fill the in-between

spares

as bric-a-brac.

Photographs of

short,

slant-eyed generals hang on walls

and stand on tables. Between two wild boar

heads above the den entrance is a framed

certificate from the Vietnamese Airborne.

The biggest war souvenir, though, isn't

on HerBell's wall. It is in his head - the

way a man of 55 arts aîter more than 20

years of being in and on the fringes of vio.

lent conflicks.

Some of it, obviously, is

affectation. Some of it is genuine.

And

some of it just seems strange lo an outsider

STEP INTO THE AGE OF

AQUARIUS

FINE OFFICE FURNITURE FOR

THE ENLIGHTENED EXECUTIVE

Rugged and hanösome with polished aluminum legs

to reflect the execulive lock! Aquarius... lhe most in

design and utility. Laminated plastic wood-grain fin-

ishes give years of maintenance tree, service and

enhance any öffice seiting. ¡our choice of available

laminated finishes!

2 file drawers

letter / legal

U-SHAPED

EXECUTIVE DESK

• 2 box drawers

• 34*x78" main section • 18"x76" return:

*18*x78* sliding door credenza

DOUBLE

PEDESTAL DESK

=30"x60"

• 3 box drawers

• 1 file drawer

letter

SECRETARIAL

DESK

• 1 box and 1 file drawer

stationery pedestal

• 30"x60" main section

with doors

• 18*x42" lyping height returi

•wrap around modesty panel

LOWEST PRICES IN SOUTH FLORIDA!

COME IN OR CALL-SEE FOR YOURSELF!

WE SHIP ANYWHERE

Call lor Froo Fut Color Calalogues, Docoralor Servico Arcilobte

decorn

steal

citay

MIAMI • 7571 MI. ITE AVE

MIAMI • 0750 N.E. 426 CT.

858-025.

858-8871

CUE S. DIXIE HIGHWAY

:: W.OAXLAND PARK BIVI

.S. BLAMI 886-5041

PT. LAUD, 580-518

Charge Accounts Matcoma Sa Hablo Esperal

---

## Page 27

it secms that everyone assorialed min HerBrill iahes gun in hand for targe

praclice al one time e another. Bennelt Sinthlt, chairman el the board st

Detense Systems Iniernational. plays marksman aith a handgen

Butterflies

aren't,

FREE,

Gleaming colorful glass butter.

Ilies. "Jeal for sliding doors, windows

actual size. Green, yelled. Live and

amber. Apply using any clear epoxy.

Add 50d for handling

ADVERTISEMEN

Helps Shrink Swelling Of

Hemorrhoidal Tissues Caused By

Inflammation And infection

Also Cives Prompt, Temporary Relief in Many Case

from Pain and Burning lich in Such Tissues

There's an exclusive formulatisa! ington, ington, and at a Midwait

which: actually helps shrint the Modical Center showed this to be

fainful swelling of hemorrhoidäl

true in many canca.

tinued caused by infection, In

The medication used by docton

many cases the firat appifcations

in these tests was Pre

paration id

Bive prompt, temporary reliel

- 11.716.

from itching and pain in lemon

can buy

exclusive formula you

- with.

rhoidal tissues

outa prescription.

paration H

The sufferer frat notices relief

also lubi

from such painful discomfort.

lo protect

inflamed, irritated

Then this mediation helpe

surface-and so helps make bowel

Rently reduce awelling of hemor-

heretical, leone

comfortable.

rhoidal tissues. Teals conducted

by doctors

on

There is no other formula like

hundreds of pa-

Preparation

In ointment or

Lenla in New York City.

Wash-

appository

UNBEATABLE

GOLF

PACKAGE

7 DAYS • O NIGHTS

$15

950

Aloe nacr

combined with

VITAMIN E

ly Sandra See

LiCA

Albe

Halft

Lotions

Creams

Moisturzers

Does wonders for your

aging skin.

Milson

At Your Favorite Store

ANSWER TO TODAY'S PUZZLE

SUN IN LAKE

Holiday Sni

LAKE PLACIO, FLORIDA

JOHN L SULLIVAN, LANKEEPER

GOLF

& TENNIS

CAMP

FOR TEENS - COLEO

p. MorguEl 1913 • 50rd for brot

UNLEARNTATIONS • GOLF ORCANE

CALL

COLLECT MIAMI

1-6044-T1

Thus the sincere man does not

do or sar sher which

he sould he

asharned of were is brought to lighe.

His uprigheness of spirie enables

him 1o dalk uprighe ard confident

ameng his fellowmen. His presence

is a serong protection, and his dords

are direur and punerful because they

are true. I harever may be his dirti.

Il prospers. - James Allen

22

POWDER KEG

Cantreued

to the world of a fellow like Mitch WerBell.

But there it is the hush jacker and the

monacle. The belt buckle that conceals a

"survival kni!e."

The electronic gate and

the two guard dogs, a German shepherd

named Friz and a Doberman called Mal

(for Evil). The electronic sweep by the two

phones to detect transmitting or bugging

devices. The Srotch whisky, poured neat

- no water, no ice.

WerBell rited into his present line of

work during the mid- 1950s alter'a' brief brit

flourishing poet war career in advertising;

he joined and rose to the head of the ad.

vertising department of Rich's, a major.

Atlanta departident store. He then found-

ed his own ad firm. His first step was to get

isyolved in international public relations

and anti-conmunism: one of his clients, he

says, was the

Batista government. From

there, he eased into the arms and intrigue

businesg:

WerBell's talent for designing weapons

recolls that of Q., tho forinnal Hritish Sp..

cret Service armorer for lan Fleming's

super-gpy,

Jarnes Bond. At his Powder

Springs retreg:, WerBelt has "designed" a

submachine gun disguised as a briefcase,

an effective noise-and-flash suppressor for

automatic weapors, a cigar that fires a in-

gle bullet and a swagger stick that is actu.

ally a mini-rocket launcher.

WerBell's sorties into strife-tom arras.

eppear at times to be merely the business

trips of a traveling salesman whose line

Happens to be machine guns. At other

times, however - such as during the Do-

minican revolt and in Thailand - his pur-

pose seems to be less clear.

His gullet warmed by a few guljs of neat

whisky, WerBell will recount some of these

past adventures, albeit reluctantly and in

vague terms because of the new.

sober

image he is attempting to project.

But as

the camouflage outfit hangs next to the

: dark suit in WerBell's closet, the flam-

bryance of the old gunrunning and tank.

riding Mitch WerBell every now and then

surfaces in the behavior of the conservative

geopolitical advisor. Mitchell L. WerBell

• W'hile in London revently, as Parliament

prepared for the final vote endorsing Baha-

mian independence.

WerBell let

it be

known in a reporter for the London Daily

Muror (circulation five

million) tha: he

was: 1) four-square for the cause of the

Council for a Free Abaco, and 2) recruiting

British mercenaries "for a project I have in

mind."

Abaco? "Who said it was Abaco?"

said WerBell. The fruit of the interview

WILLIAM A AMLONG es a Herato stati ariter.

was a front page story headlined: "Mutiny

in Paradise ...

The Island That Wants to

Stay British ... A Call Goes Out fur Mer-

cenanes.

• Such were the initial tactics in the Bat-

fle of Mbaco, a cause that, for awhile in the

British press, seemed second in anticipated

femcity only to the Catholics-rg.-Protes-

tarts strife in Northern Ireland. Joining

WerBell as a comrade-in-press release was

La.-Col. Colin (Mad Mitch) Mitchell, &

right-wing House of Comons member

and a hero of the Battle of Aden during his

dass

with the Argyle

Sutherland

Highlanders. Mitchell, who was muttering

to the British press about-serret missions to

Aharo and the such, recently visited Wer.

Bell in Powder Springs, WerBell said

While there are some penple who admire

Mamboyance auch as WerBell's, there are

others who don't. Among those others are

WerBell's former business associates, a

group of New York investment bankers

who bought WerBell and

Bennett B.

Bintlift, an associate, out of the Military

Armament Corp. (MAC) that the pair had

founded. "He's been headline press all over

England, end we're just & quiet little man-

ufacturing company,

said Rosser Scott

Reeves Ill, chairman of the board of MAC's

parent company. Qua tum Corp.

"He's a

loudmouth.

Basically, when you're dealing

with a munit, the country sinid line iu

see responsible executives who are discreet,

who will transact business - not tell war

stones.

Reeves, however, says he doesn't dislike

WerBell

— he just doesn't want to be

associated with him in the arms businesg.

"I like him a great deal. He's amusing and

he's a character. But letting him run Colt

or ietting him run MAC is like tuming

loose a high-school hot-rodder to run

General Mororg."

W'erBell and his associales in Powder

Springs have now reincorporated under the

name of Defense Systems Iniernational

Inc. and have hired away several of MAC's

former weapons specialists.

They are not

overly fond of Reeves and his people either.

"Tunnel vision" is one phrase they use to

describe MAC's preoccupation with gun.

sales.

Defense Systems

International, they

say: dons not suifer from such cunnel vi-

sion.

They are

deeply

insolied in

Respolicies

- whatever geopolitics art.

And from the list of activities that Wer Bell

and his partners tick off, geopolitics seems

to be about anything they want it to be:

arms sales, militury advice. insestment

banking, economic developmens, security

work, public relations, international law.

jering.

The prople who hire the firm. Her Bell

says

"are interested in an organization

that's capable

of doing the

political,

geopolitical. clandestine and economic op

erations that we're capable of. H'e operate

+

---

## Page 28

+

*in ?2 different countries. Il somebody said

to us tomorroi. N'e need a complete goi-

ernment, fron a minister of health to a

minister of mellare to the ruy who presses

the buttons to make the elevator go,' we

coula do it.

Just hor much demand there is for pre-

- packaged goverments - or how much ça-

pabilit Defense Systeris International has

for providing therd' is uncertain. What

the firm would appear te have an obrious

capacily for, howerer, is warfare: Its presi.

dent and chiaf administrator ig WerBell's

son-in-law.

Paul Routhier, a rerired U'.S.

Air Force lieutenant-colenel wto also dou-

bles as the compans's air-sar espert.

On

the staff are

barious.other

ex-military

tome, tanaina fora = dusrine sergeant to

several retired colonels. Among its activi-

tiea, saj's Routnier, is she sale to smaller.

U.S.-approved nations of armament pack-

ages. including no: only hardunre but also

training.

Vhat Defense Sustems International

does not do, its principals insist, is to make

wars. or shoor people rlemselves.

If they

did, they sar, they could go to jail fur sio-

lating U.S. neutraiiiy laus. ur does it sell

the guns in shone penple with, unless the

U'.S. state Depanmen' sppnises, they say.

And the Srate Depariment isn'e aboue lo

approve the sale uf ans arms by W'erBel! 10

the Abaconian

seceisicnists.

No matter,

sass Werbell.

"He have no intention of

arming Abaro in any shape or fashion.

Answay, thes hase more arms doun there

than we have here.

s wihy, then. is there a photogreph

sing about of the Hon. 1. F. Firrinston

(Eric) M'atkins, a member of the Banami-

an Purliament from

tbem, clenching a

cigar betwren his teeth and lest-liring one

of H'erBell's silenced submachine

runs?

The answer may well he far from sinisier:

as a tourist drinks beir aen

he visits

Busch Gardens, a visiror lei

HerBell's

house does not normally lease withoilt fir-

ing off a clip 'or iuo through she machine

gun. It is an instrument of which Werßell

is duls proud: a rapid-lite autumatic

weapon that, when equipner with the si.

TROPIC - FITY 1. 1873

lencer, makes about as much soise as an

electric espewriter..

The novelty

of WerBell's weaponry

aside, however. there remain the questions

of how WerBell got involved with the Free

Abaco faction, what he is doing for it and

how he is getling paid.

The leadership of the Council for a Free

Abaco appears to be compesed of! Ho mea,

N'a:kins and Charles (Ci:uch) Hall. Wat-

king, the chairman, is.a retired Bahamas

policeman and former Nassau regident. He

was elected to the House of Assembly from

Abaco on the free

National MErement

licket last September.

Ho

datoi.

has

knusn W'ertkill

for some 19) boans tlall.

Nassau IV.

and radio-store

owner, is a

direct descendant of the white Tories who.

settled Abaco immediately after the Amer-

ican Rexolution ruther than be separated

froin tle British Crown. He saus he was

referrud to WerBell through persons he met

while organizing a demonstratiun against

allowing Air Cuba to service she Nassau

airport.

"T'he people I met there, basically

right-wing. were able to put me en to ler.

Bell." Mall is sectetary of the council.

With a budget that they will descnbe no

more specifically than to say it is less than

$50,000 and made up entirely of small mn-

tributiong from Bahamians,

the eroup is

paving WerHell and Marger an undisciosed

ipe chrough leta, a dummy corporation

fuunded sulely for the Abaco venture. Why

il

was necessary to

establish

such a

company is unclecr. Of its nume, We:Bell

says, "I think it's Greek for war.

Bur just what the Zeta Co. or Operation

Zeta - it's referred to as both - 15.dloing

for che Ahaconian secessionists is sorae.

what uncertàin.

So far, there has been

some lobbying of l'arliament in London by

Marger, a lauver with U.S. lobbring expe-

riense and a baciground in intemational

lani, bue about as un-Brirish a fellou as

there is. There have been some saber.rat-

tling press releases to the British neuspa-

vers.

Thert have been conserantions with

Mad Mirch. ind there has even been nore

of che plight of the Abaconian secestionises

on the ediporial page of che drlanta

suurnal: shree simpathericcolumns

wrilten by John Crown, a retired Marine

BIANE

LOINS

TO NODA

CEOROOW

ICHTEA

BankAmericard

for Sheets and Towels!

Enjoy low bank rates on home

improvement, addition or remodeling

financing... and charge the new

furnishings you need with Bank Americard.

Arrange. for either one of them here

and you're one-up on the other. That's

why we call it "2-for-1" banking:

Whatever servica you may need, with a

Bank Americard issued by us, you

already have us in your porket!

Enjoy '2-for-l' banking

at Miami's

MSSN

AMÉR CARPA

banks

COMMERCIAL BANK & TRUST COMPANY

3301 NW

71h, Ave.. Miami - 759-85i1

MEACHANTS BANK CF MIAMI

950 S W 5:19 Ave. Miam

--667.5661

COMMERCIAL BANK OF KENDALL

8601 S. Dis.e Mriy. Niami --665-7498

SATFIONIRETUIIEN EBCANAIA

SUDSIGIALES O FLORIDA ÇOMMEACLAL BAYGS. INE A ReRSterdd BUnd HDIdIngCOTS

---

## Page 29

POWDER KEG

Conlinued

.officer.and acquaintance.of WerBell's who

was introduced to Markins. There is also

sume talk about apprisching the Organiza-

tion of Americen States and the United

Nations.

And about a referendum

on

Anaco July 5 - the day before Bahamian

independence - un whether to unilaterally

declare Abaco a free natien. "We are pur-

ting to bear all our activity and friends to

tel! the world: 'Here's a rountry

that

duesn't want to go this way,' " says Wer-

Bell.

The accuracy of that assessment of feel..

ing on Abaco can he questioned. Many of

the

Abaconians who

originally opposed

separation from the Crown abandoned the

movement as fruitless in December, when

the British government decreed that the

Baharas - all of the Bahamas - gould

become independent. Nor was there ever

complete opposition throughout Abaco to

the Pindling

government and indepen.

dence: of the two Parliament members

elected by the isiand's 6.500 residents, the

one other than Watkins is a Pindling sup

porter and a backer of independence. The

impetus. for the Free Abaco movement,

hoth Pindling and Minister of Extenial

Affairs Faul Adderly have charged, comes

from outside the Bahamas.

"I still think

that what they are basically involved in is

the,stealing of land,"

Adderly

said in a

recent interview. And indeed. the majority

of the people on Abaco know very little of

WerBell and Mareer outside of whut they

rend in the British press.

WerBell says his motivations are strictly

anti-communist. A far right winger - he

described himself to a newsmun as

"to the

ight of Attila the Hun" - WerBell sees

the Bahamas ag islands ripe

for com.nu.

nism.

"Every goddam single symptem that

was present in Cuba exists in the Bahamas

" he says.

WerBell's opinion of the Pindling gov.

ernment and of the Bahamas' politivai cli-

mate is one which meny observers of the

Bahainas do not share.. Although the over-

whelming majority of the islanders are

black and have become very assertive con. (i

cerning racial equality during the past de-

Colonel

cade or so, the Banamas have been deeply

influenced

by

English

tradition. The

Angiican and Baptist Churches, both con-

vervative institutions.

are heavily repre-

sented.

And

the

U.S.

govemment

is

ardently courting. Pindling as a friend.

But WerBell, son and heir of a Cossack

colonel, sees.the rise of Bolshevism

where

others see the peacetul emergence of g new

democratic nation.

ind

the question

is

whether or not to take him seriously as he

sits in Powder Springs with his bush jacket

and walrus moustache.

talking of hiring

mercenaries

and

of

naming

company

after what he thinks is the Greek letter

meaning war.

The State Department, meanwhile, is

keeping a close watch.

"You can't urite a

man off as a ciok'r...

" said one scurce. "if he

has a warehouse full of arms. We take him

seriously enough to want to know what he's

us 10."

21

Shirts

- 875

Eurapear,

Clothing

1850 N.E. 1owh Sr. No. M. Beach

Monday thru Friday 10 A.M. - 9 P.M.

Saturday 10.A.M. - 6 P.M.

Sunday by appointment 447-9047

DON'T LET

SUMMER'S MEAT

GET YOU DOWN

If your present Central

air conditioning system needs

replacing make sure the

ROUND ONE

GOES IN

1 Day 28 Bear DEzfpodI Serrica

BEST THAT

MONEY

CAN BUY

CARRIER

can repiace

any Central

1.l-4

system

o Carrier's Round One thinks for itself with

a doortul of the most adranced solid

state controls ever built into a unit. The

ultimate in protection agaiast "Brown-

Outs" and power failures. For lurther in-

formation, phons us.

SERVING MIAMI FOR 27 YEARS

AIRKO

RESIDENTIAL INC.

7400 NE. 4th COURT - 734-3433

Be Ready For The.

Fun of Outdoor

Cooking With Gas

in Minutes

Warm Morning

Profaster

Packaged

Portable Gas Grill

Assembled and Ready las Use

¡ Includes These Deluxe Features:

• Deluxa Cast Aluminum Gril

• Puriábio Cart

• Porcelain Enameled Cast Iron Cooling Recko

• Heat Indicalor

• Polato Rack

•Two Roomoco Snairos.

• 201D:L.P.

Cylinder and Regulalor

Just

hava 11 intos and you'ra resoy lo cooki

Compare our Prices!

MIAMI:

COUNTY GAS CO.

d.N.

79th

STREET/

ONE DOLLAR OFF

1

Roos

condo

ON

Top

14. SUPER SIZE

SUPERTAN

A bala

need blend ol Alo

Caroo

Butter and lanolin lor

the whoto

tomity.

S1 OH1 regular lot price al your

faronte store.

Including

• MEDCO DRUGS

• MEISHERS

• TARASCH DRUGS

• SURF DRUGS

• MEMPORT SUNDRIES

• TRUCO DRUGS

ATO STOREKEEPER:

DOLLA

You are outhorsed to act as

our agent in redeeming this

_coupon. We mill reimburse you for

she lace value of this

coupon plus sc handing, pronded you and the

have complied with the terms of inis otter

Proof of pur

chose ol sufficient stock lo cover coupons for redemption

nust bo furnished upon request. All must be signed wilh

address ol consumer.

We will not honor redemption;

through on outside agency.

The cuslo.nes must pay sales

Cash rede aption 1: 20c. Redemplion on other phan

product speritied is troud.

end coupons so: jundown Prod. P.O. Box 105

orth Miami Beoch, flo. J1101

Limit I Coupon for family

Consen Esad Tare 1-29-T9

Alr. or As. Consumer sion here:

NAME.

ADDRESS

1

QNE DOLLAR OFF

2100Q E

---

## Page 30

State Dept Cüble LoiiDon 5390

daflii a MAy' 73

subiect: Kileged fati- Bahamian

Irilipendence fstirities in.

Londin

---

## Page 31

DISPATCH

МАЗУ НАНО!

SECRET

10KH3. S6 S00N

Chief of Station,

1N10

1629.70E 190114S

Chief, Africa Division

Headquartor's Traces

ACTICA RIGGIGIO. REFIRIACIS

on the Military Armament_ Corporation.

AR: is siatod

n laragraph Three

Reference:

, 17 May 1973.

There are no Headquarter's traces on Dr. George A. linkler,

but there are traces on the Military Armament Corporation

Board Chairnan, Mir. Mitchell Livingston HerBell Ill (201-259910).

In 1967 WerBell organized a firm called SIONICS, Incorporated

(Studies in Operational Negation of Insugency and Counter Subversion);

Quantum Ordnance Bankers and the new firm was named the Miiitary

Armament Corporation with herbell as Chairman of the Board.

2.

•WerBell- was born on 8 March 1918 in Philadelphia,

Pennsylvania.

te served in: the OSS, and was of interest to BKHERALD in 1959 when it

was discovered-that he was involved with anti-Castro plotters in

the Dominican Republic. He was granted a POA in August 1959 but this

was cancelled in October, 1959 when his information proved to be of

little value and it was suspected that he was using BHERALD funds

to promote personal interests.

pass hinself

He has subsequently attempted to

as LNBUZZ connected and as a BKHERALD employee.

•Mr.

herBell's lengthy 201 file shows a long history of his appearing in

areas: and

situations where he can make a fast buck.. He is character-

ized as unscrupulous, a "wheeler dealer"

, and a promotor of grandioso

schemes.

WOTACK advises that the arms WerBell offers for sale are

of good

quality, bit that the selling price is considered excessive.

in that Mr. Herßell is a WODUAL citizen, the above infor-

should not be. passed to CGPAT/1. •tiowever,

the Station could

inform CGPAT/l that the Military Armament Corporation has

reputation and, although it may have permission from NVIDEA to export

arms, it has no LNBUZZ

connections and that any dealings with the

corporation should be approached with extreme caution.

Luther S. PENAGELIA

1:13

Distribution:

Orig &

1-cos,

i.?

CRUIS REFERENCE 1O

SPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

[DẠTT

AQPH 240

CLASSIFCATION

SECRET

# JUN 1273

29 May 73

HOS TEE NUMEER

201-259910

ORIGINATIPiG

DUSKER

Distribution:

1-AF/5

1-AF/5 Chron

J.4

HE/S/E

1023

CUORCINATING

DiFICE SYN.50!

C1/OPS

DAlE

30.5.73

DEFICE 5:91501

FC/AF/S

FORU

53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

MFG, d :2

Dale

31/02 3 1

÷.53

DISPATCH

---

## Page 32

DISLAILH

Chief of Station, MM/Micmi

SECRET

FLACCiD FOR DOLKING

NO INDI TING MIQUIRIO

TONY QUALIFIED DISK

ICAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROLLA

Chief, Western Kemisphere Division

• VWVAPOR/Mitchell Livingston Werbell IlI

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

Forwarded under separate cover is a report

froM LNERGO dated 12 September 1973 on Subject.

Louise B. PERLBINDER

Attachment:: U/S/C

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - COS, NH/Miami,

w/at

u/s/c

E2 IMPDET CL BY: - 0197.22

CHOSS REFERENCE 1O

RECORD COPY

INSPAICH SIMBOL AND NUMBER

UFPW- 784

CLASSITICATION

SECRET

nf/7/Car

1 -

201-0259910

WH/7/Car Chrono

DATE

Toned: 12 October 1973

V201-0259910

MoORIGINATING

TYPIST

4133/1249

COORDINATING

DATE

OFFiCER'S NAME

CHE S1M601

AC/WH/7

1.2

53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

NFG. 8.18

DATE

12

2.52

REILSSISS

E. James

DISPATCH

---

## Page 33

• ALICOPIRAT REFER IN THIS DOR.

- OUTGOING: FESSAGE

CRET ALIGNE

N: 31

ace

OMF O

classiercamos

}

STAFF

CONF: I'M 8

O но

доте. пле с

030001

FILE!

ст

DIRECTOR

F1, CuRE, cilso.

mania to

403810

CISSEM DY: 28

PER __#_

TO :

WH/MIAMI•

•YUVAPOR.

(#553419.)

FOLLOWING SUMMARY STATE 80538 DATED 27 APRIL 1973 POUCHING

COPY}:

A. BRITISH EMBOFF WASHINGTON GAVE NOTE TO DEFARTMENT ON BEHALF

OF BAHAMAS GOUT (GOBIZ ON 2? APRIL 1973 RE NEU. REPORTS IN UNITED

KINGDOM CONCERNING TUO PEOPLE INVOLVED ANTI-BAHAMAS INDEPENDENCE

ACTIVITIES. REPORTS IDENTIFY TWO PEOPLE AS U.S. CITIZENS. THEY ARE

ERUIN MARGER, FORTY-FOUR YEAR OLD ATTORNEY, UHO CLAINS REPRE-

SENT "COUNCIL FOR A FREE ABACO," AND MITCHEL BELL. SSIC: FIFTY-

FIVE YEAR OLD ARMS DEALER. GOBI HAS UNCONFIRMED TUFO THAT MARGER IS

FLORIDA ATTORNEY AND BELL PRESIDENT OF DEFENSE SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL

INCA POWDER SPRING, GEORGIA. "COUNCIL FOR À FREE ABACO" UNKNOUN TO

GOBI.

8.. NEUS REPORTS SAY BOTH MEN APRIVED UX CLAINING REPRESSI

CITIZENS WHO WANT REMAIN BRITISH, AND INTERESTED HIRING SRITISH

MEA

CENARIES THO NEITHER MAN SAID MERCENABRIES INTENDED FOR ABACO.

CATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

D9001

3

SECRET

RECORD

Сору

2.51

COOBDIRATIRO OFFLEAN

REPROQUETION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PAOHISITED

RI

M. Dire

6+1AY73

701259410

E 2

CL BY:

IMPOET

---

## Page 34

10.0

ines nun.

OUTGOING MESSAGE

BISMAL CENTE RUSE ONY

ACP

₴

•-*8-852-43 0000

SECRET

STAFF

CONF:

DIRECTOR

INFO: FiLE

403810

DISSEM BY:

PER _ #

O serumaro

Я

отит

C. GOBI REPORTED THIS INFO SINCE ACTIVITIES, IF TRUE, MIGHT

CONSTITUTE CRIMINAL COMSPIRACY AGAINST GOBI.

DO GOBI REQUESTS U.S. GOUT INQUIRE INTO CONDUCT THESE TWO MEN

RE REPORTED ACTIVITIES AGAINST GOBI, TAKING ÄCTION AS NECESSARY.

E: STATE COMMENT LABELLED FYI: ARMS DEALER IS MITCHEL WE R-

BELL OF POUDER SPRINGI GEORGIA, WHO KNOWN TO DEPARTMENT AS ADVEN-

TURER WHO INVOLVED IN SIMILAR ACTIVITIES IN OTHER CARIBBEAN COUNTRIES.

END FYI:

2. FOLLOWING SUMMARY NASSAU 546. DATED 2? APRIL 1973 {POUCHING

COPY}:.

À. MIN EXT AFF. ADDERLEY GAVE INFO COPYiSTATE 60538 TO

EMBOFF IN NASSAU WITH COMMENT THAT GOBI NOT ASKING UK AUTHORITIES TAKE

ANY ACTION AGAINST U.S. CITIZENS.

8. ADDERLEY SAID ABACO LEADER LEONARD TEOH OMPS ON AND MR.

STRATTON, ONE OF MAIN FINANCIAL BACKERS OF ABACO MOVEMENT,

ASSURED PM RECENTLY

THEY NOT SUPPORTING SECESSION THROUGH VIOLENCE..

LEMBOFF COMMENT: THIS IN LINE WITH INFO RECEIVED THAT MODERATE ELE-

MENTS ON ABACO DISASSOCIATING FROM EXTREMISTS AROUND ERRINGTON WATKINS

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

REPRODUCTION B POTHER THAN THE SUISE DEFICE IS PROPIED"

BY:

iMPDET

---

## Page 35

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CRNTIRUSEONLY

sco

noe

OMF O

CLADAORNCATION

SECRET

STAFF

CUNF:

DIRECTOR

INFO: - FILE

DISSEN BY

403810

• C. NASSAU: "GUARDIAN", 27 APRIL 1973. HAS CABINET OFFICE PRESS

RELEASE WITH NOTE TEXT, AND REPORTS THAT ABACÜ ERRINGTON LATKINS AND

FRIEND, CHARLES "CHUCK" HAL LI IN LONDON SEEKING SUPPORT FOR

COUNCIL FOR A FREE ABACO."

D• SAME ISSUE HAS WATKINS'S DENIAL HE IN LONDON FOR MERCENARIES

OR THAT HE WOULD RESORT TO OR CONDONE VIOLENCE, HE SAID HE LOBBYING.

HAVE BAHAMAS INDEPENDENCE BILL AMENDED TO EXCLUDE INDEPENDENCE FOR

ABACO AND SAID WILL DO EVERYTHING LEGALLY... AND CONSTITUTIONAELY TO

ACHIEVE WISHES AND DESIRES OF PEOPLE.

WATKINS SAID GOBI CHARGES VERE

EFFORT TO DISCREDIT HIM.

E. DEPARTMENT COMMENT: PROMPT RELEASE OF. NOTE TO LOCAL PRESS

AND RADIO SUGGESTS IT EXERCISE FOR INTERNAL POLITICAL CONSUMPTION N

3. POUCHING SUMMARY EXTENSIVE FILE ON WERBELL (201-2555107:

4. FILE 201-259910. EZ IMPDETON

DATE: 2 MAY 1.973

CRIG

UAIT: UH/Z/CAR

EXT:

7493/1956

KMS

SECRET

-2,51

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSU:NS OFFICE 15 FROMIGITED

AUTHENTICATMG CHANCES

IMPOET

CL BY: 0:9722

---

## Page 36

1173

Sübject: Edwin Marger:

mitchell Livingston Werke!, Ii

GREAT BRITAIN

---

## Page 37

FBI document datid isJune 73.

from fitlanta, Ga

Subject: Edwin Marger;

mitchell Livingston

Werbell, III

---

## Page 38

FBI document. dated

16 Man 73

Cre- mitchell Werbell)

---

## Page 39

SaR 18 01

DOC. MICRO. SER

4u 25 1972

MICROFLMED

30244

DTG:

cOME 6/10.1668

a varie eat eat, ell

E?

GY:

C55c72

K-858

MICKLY

Finlan

PLMISSYS

A. MEXICO CITY 20257 CIR L443732

B• MEXICO CICY 20754 CAN 6543753

I. MITCHELL L- MADELL, TIT COOL 1-25T1U58 IS BICLCTOR OF

CULM TOO CUP WHICH PEACET COUPAOY OF MILITARY SURELAT CORP AND

DEFESS STATENS TUTLALATIGNCLO NOS HAS LENGELY 206 DE LONGLEL UHD

AS LOUG MESTGRY POPPLUS UP IN ARCAS AND SITUITEONG DIESE CAN HAKE

FLU FAST SUCKSO: ME CHANICIEGEZES AS UNSCRUPULOUS, DECELER SCALER

2. CAIROSS GAS SESHT LAST TOO YEARS CECCLARGDLG DERBELI 1D

HAS CCPEATEOLY ATCHICO COCHOTE CLE AG A OF 10101E MAD ASTONET.

IT PAOHAULE THRI WAGELL LSING CAMARGO DOE

Tuar

UniT

CRIG

NUIN

MERLAST

ortick

B20-292522

311219513

015:61

CS. COPY

2.й?

CHED, AUG 1972

201-259918

---

## Page 40

Đ TG:

mancier

ul 30244%

1980

po.va.rue

ro'se Conss

MS SPORATIOS DECAUSE PENCIL SO CAGLE GUNNES CORURROTER ALL:

LOVE TAŸ SE PASSED GIDD-DONA GAZUEAT THAT IT NOT LS PASSED FOREIG

TINUALS DECAUSE DESCELL LILUTE CITIZEL.

3. TRACES WE RAUNGAG PLODIG UILL FOULED SUCH RECEIVED-

4.

FILe: 201-259000: 203-2592130 202-252922. Ca JErDET CU-RE

---

## Page 41

FBI docriment dated

1s April 72

Cre: mitchell L. werbell, I-

Assoe. w/ Haitian exiles)

---

## Page 42

SusjiCia (Ophonai,

FrOM.

joan K. Greaney.

Assistánt Gezeral Coussel

DiTENSION

іна

1921

a d itoriaiser 197:

DATE

discidine)

General Counsel

3.

DD/P

3C34 Hgs.

DD/SEC

4E60 Has.

NNii-3, Thave reviened the attached

transcript and ind cothing classi-

fied. "I feel, however, it wouid.be

advisable for Ermai Geiss to siga

the reply since WerBell's counsel

has sent me written interrogaio.-

корис П. Колі

Lawrence R. Housion

Genezal Coursel

CONCURRENCE:

Tottaian

Dapury Direcior sor Plans

10.

12.

=.y5

COMICEATA WA

---

## Page 43

Nept t the Army

Memo for: Deputy best bety of Defense

b. Oct 71

---

## Page 44

CaVAL INTELLiGENCE AGENCY

OCC 71-1618

11 NOV 1971

Vi. George MacClain

Direcior, Iniormation

Security Division

Depariment of Deloise

Washiagtos, D. C.. 20301

Dear Vir. MacClain:

Subject: WerBell, Viichell Liviagason M

OSD No. 69-59

Li accordance wich your regues: of 13 October 1971, the

Ceairal intelligence Agency has reviewed the Official Report of

Proceedings in the subjec: case.

The Official Report of Pro-

ceedings does no: coniaia any information periaisiag io tse CIA

waich should be classified..

it should be noied, however, that the lack oi classilica-

tion does not mean ine ClA suoscribes to or validaies the ¿esti-

mosy contained ir ine Official Report oi Proceediags and this

review should no: be in:erpreied as an escorsemes: by this

Agency of ine staiemenis coniained therein.

Returned herewich is the Official Report o! Proceediags.

Siacerely,

ERMAL P. SEISS

E-malP. Geiss

Doputy Direcior of Securisy

Memo fr Examiner, ISCRD, 9/22/71

ISCRD memo, 9/23/71

ISD memo, 9/27/71

Army response, 10/6/71

Vol 1, OSD No. 69-59

Vol 2, OSD No. 69-59

2.

201-259910

---

## Page 45

Office of the Cast kenting f Defense

Memo dated 13 Oct 71

baby: 21 Ball, Kited Linget II OSD Ne. 69-59

---

## Page 46

Office of Ass't Secretary of Defens

Intestral decit, linance Review Divisi

Memo dated 22 Sip 21989

Lady: 2661, Mit l Linget II, 030-16. 024?

---

## Page 47

Office A Crit bertay of Defence

Memo dated 23 bip?!

'Sily: Won Bell Mitell Liviapten II, OSDN. 69-59

---

## Page 48

Office of Ani't bertay of Defense

Memo dated 27 sep 7/

Suby: We Bell, Mitchell Finiten It,

OSD No. 69-59.

---

## Page 49

In)

_.

File Herbell

:=.:

THe 5-3

SECRET 121148Z NOV T1 CITE BANGKOK 24725 (SEGERQUIST ACTING)

RECTOR PHNOM PECK VIENTIANE

SAiGON

ENEAT SECUR

??:

DIRECTOR 881!4 KNOTALS

12K IN 467962

1. Me. MacHELL A. WERSELL, MILITARY ARMAMENT

CORPORATION (FORTERLY AN ELEKENT OF WERBELL'S GEORGIA

EASED FIRM OF SIGHICS WHICH REPORTEDLY WENT

SUNRUPTS, IS SACK IN SANGKOK ATTEMPTING TO SELL HIS WARES

MICHINE PISTOLS AND SNIPER RIFLES). TIE RET MESSAGE CITES

THE FAOT THAT HES HAS A LENGTHY Z01 ON SUBJECT (201-259910)

AÜ THST HE IS CHARACTERIZED AS UNSCRUPULOUS, A WHEELE?-DEALER

ANO A PROMOTER OF GRANDIOSE SCHEMES. HE HAS ON OCCASION

LUDED EITHER TO SEING AN LALUTE REP OR HAVING LNLUTE BACKING.

2. SUBJECT NET WITH SEVERAL LNCUFF OFFICERS ON 5 NOV

T1 AND RELATED TIT HE WAS ATTENIING AGAIN TO INTEREST THa

THAT GOVERNENT IN PUACHASING HIS PRODUCIS. SUBJECT CLAIMS

TO DE PERSONKL FRIEND OF. AIR CHIEF MARSHAL DAWEE AND THAT

......

HES SAMPLE WEAPOLS WERE CONSIGNED TO DAWES IS ORDER TO BRING......

CO INTO THAILAND.&

3. SUBJECT ADVISED INCUFF THAT GEN: KRIAVGSAKE

ORDERED

... .....--*--

•i.:

1901.1

Гʼї.

11,

SECRET::

:2.43

---

## Page 50

-:

don Filled la)

asce coor

Tissueo

SLOTTen

. Z

FILE, VR

TiON: NO

TAGE TWO BANGÄOK 24725 SECRET

ME HUNDRED CHINE PISTOLS AND IVENTY SNIPER SIFLES.

A SO INDICATED THAT SE MO MET WITH HOS.HO ADVERAL DISKUL,.

LE AIDE DE CAMO TO MOM. THE KING AND CLAIMS RE WILL SELL

LIS MACHINE PISTOL TO THE ROYAL FALACE GUARDS. FURTHER.

COINS HE WILL HAVE AUDIENCE THIS WEEN WITHHON. THE KING.

LO FOLLONING MES CURRENT THRANO VISIT, O: 16 NOV 71

SUBUECT AND MR. LASON M. STONE 1201-295998) PLAN TRAVEL

MONOR PERRE PLAN TO

CONTACT PR. LADD AT PENCE PENH.. ACCORD-

HE LICUSE SUBJECI PLANS CONTACT CAMBODIAN NIL. AUTHORITIES

2? POSSIBLE WEAPONS GALES. SUBLECT. HAS ALPENSY DErONSTRATED

•EMS FOR GEN. POKSAMAN IN BANGKOK.

SO IP. LASCH NO STONE IS HEAD OF BANGKOK EASED FIRM

= ASSCCIATED COMSULTANES CORSANY LIDO ME IS CHINESE, WHO

PORKED WITH WERDELL IN SEA DURING WWII. SUSECT NOW REPRE-

ELS SELGIAN ARMS FIRYS AND-IS-REP-FOR PILATES PORTER

MIACRART...

G FOLLOWING PHNOM PENH VISIT WERBELL PLANS TRAVEL TO LAOS IN..

PILATUS PORTER, PROBABLY WITH STONE.

?. DUE RESTRICTION ON PASSING DEROG ON. U.S. CITIZEN,

EUEVE BEST APPROACH TO FOLLOW IS CAREFUL ARVICE TO LOCAL

-=..

....^

---

## Page 51

When Fued day

REPrODUCTION OF THIS COPY PREMIUITCO.

ance coer.

TILE, VR

¡TON NO.

ACE THREE BANGKOK 24725 SECRET.

iSON THAT SUbUSCT HAS NO OFFICIAL LALUTE RELATION.

ME CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED IN ANY BUSINESS DEAL. GP-1

GECRET

→ ES APPARENTLY WRONG REF:

SECRET

54243-11

---

## Page 52

OGG 71-1570

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHiNGTON, DIG: 2÷505

REGISTERED MAIL

RETURN RECEIPE REQUESTED

28'Ociober 2972

Vi. David H. Henretta, Jr.

Industrial Security Clearaace Review Division

Suite 602, Lyns Büilding

111l Word 19ta Street

Axlington, Virginia 22209

Dear Mi. Henretta:

I am returning cerewith the Interrogatories sent

with your letter of October 26, 1971 and which I have axecuted

before a Voiary Public as requested.

Since the xerox copy oi Vir. Joseph Liebling's lettez

dia not contain some os ine formalities that were in the

original, I have noted is in my anawer to interrogatory IlI.

I trust this takas care of what you need.

Very truly yours,

s/ Laurens 2. latelea

Lawrence R. Houston

General Coussel

Inci. - Interrogatories

2.

---

## Page 53

INTERRQTATORIES

Section 1001, Miele 18, United States Code.

shoever, In ary catter withia

the jurisdiction of any repartest or Agescy or tre United Siates isorngly

are wilfuly faisities, corceals or covers un by ary trico, serene, or

device a sterial faci or rages an false, Bicutious or iramiliere siate-

ments or depresentations or maxes or uses ary falso tritiug or document

¡toniro the same to contain any false, fictitions or iraldulent staterent

or enury, shali be lised sot core than $i0, luo or imprisoned not sore toas

five years or bosto

Please state your race, address and processiozal posttion and Iraicate bou

long you leve servea la this position.

Lawresce R. Houston, Esquire

ATSHER:

Central Intelligence Agency

Washiagton, D. C.:: 20505

General Counsel

Twenty-four years

II.

In your official capacity as Gereral Coussei, Central Intelligerce Agezcy,

did you receive a letter dated February 16, 1971 1r0n Josepe J. Lebling,

Deputy Assistant Secretary 01 Defesse?

ANSWER:

Yes

III.

Attacied to these interrogatories is a three page docuent aarised "Gov. & 14".

Are pages 2 ard 3 a xerox copy of the letter referred to in Queation II?

ANSTER:

Yes. The xerox copy does not have handwritten salutation, sigrasure

or printed letterhead; however, the text of the original and tie sarox

copy have been comparell and found to be identical.

Is tre Answer to III, 1s 1a the affirmative díd you subsequenily respoza to tato

letter?

AYSWER:

Yes

V.

I: affirmative,

Is page ode of the attackiest, "Cor. Ex 14",

a xerox copy of

your resposding letter to la. Webling?

ANSWER:

Yes.

2.49

---

## Page 54

Is arfurtative, 1s the information in the letter dated 23 February 1972

¡in arswer to the questions posed in the letter dated i6 February 19T1) true

sia cOrreCt to your best towledge ard beller?.

Yes

Me foregoing saswers to the Interrogatorles sade by e are true and correct

to the best of ay scowledge ase belle.

awrence 8. Houston

Subscribea ard Sworn to before ne

& persõs authorized by law to

minister oatas

day of.

IiT.!!!"

th18 - 1911.

Petiteriäns

Feet En, Brente 12

N Commission Expices hey 12.

2

---

## Page 55

Office f As't Secrting of Entense

Industrial becity Cherne Rinew Sisei

Setter dated 26 oct 71

Re: WerBell, Michell I. II, Dakut I6. 228

---

## Page 56

- L SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Mitchell Liringston verbell, Ill

FROM.

Deputy

912 Key Bldg.

Director: PerEp

TO:

(Office designation rora numbor, arid

burtding)

DATE

RECEIVED

1. John K. Greaney, OGC

7DO1 HO

EXTINSION

2265

OFFICER'S

INITiALS

FORWARDED

(3151-056-71)

Nа 06678-6387

DATE 15 March 1971

COMMENTS, A be ech a cata do hop commis

to whom.

10

12.

13.

14

15.

2.491

foin

д-с!

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERiAL

USE ONLY

L

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 57

HIN-05ó-71

10 Xara 2271

ATEN

Director, Dinesti Ended Strio

doing NcConnell

jahn Greany (OGC)

Chief, Miaul Field Oftice

Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III

1. On 9 Mar 71 we received a long distice call, presusably fren Powder

Springs, Georgia, from subject, who is an old and unsavory contact of this

office dating fron 1959.

herbell has been involved in a variety of scrapes,

the latest of which conceraed an abortive invasion of Haiti which John Greany

was very such concerned about a jear or so ago.

Werbell stated that the Departeent of Defense had just revoied his

secure, clearance on grounds of herbell"a "frivolous behavior" in the llaittan

caper. herbell stated that he intended to "fight it to the Supreme Court", as

he had always kept us and other elecents of the US Governsent informed coi

cering developments in the laitian matter.

3. Herbell asked if there was anything that we could do for hin in the

way of interceding for hin with the dob, and we inforned his bluatly and in

no uncertain terus that he was strictly on his own, and he could do nothing

ie then asked if it would be worthwhile to subpoena Bart Gonzales.

He. inforacd hin that it was up to his attorney to make such recorrendations.

4..

herbell seered to get the message, and then offered to keep us auvised

regarding an alleged forthcoming attempt on liaiti which is being sponsored by

Rolando Kasferrer-even through Vasferrer is currently incarcerated in a federal

prison. he told werbell that if he wished to pass any inforation along he

would accept it but under no circumstances should ha attent to elicit any

information an our behalf. He agreed that he would operate on this basis and

said he night be in touch with us again.

5. In view of Werbell's record we felt that this latest contact should

be a matter of record and that OGC should be inforced of developients.

JUSTIN F. GiEICHAUF

JEG/css

SECRET

car-radio dia

exac. 1:4.9

---

## Page 58

Gun Shipmon: Figures!

Ilayed Dram atic holes

Bj Prure Galpien

8: a-bindine Post Biali Malies

velopmeni corporatica

171.1511, Des E-The tuo Willian: A. Neanoe: Je, sol

, afterwarri, he

and dome 200

under Invelgion for peeri: was being dengirt.

¡other Artats vere "lined

Ing jurs shined. froin Tiet.

Feriscil

uh princt a wall" by arnued

nat trough liglia air Soco'thet le wes thoppy beccoe resolutiocarirs

at a

Santo

Base In Flurida are no strader losi my uno clain do 1a Doringo hoio1.

ris lo controrersy or dramaticitorioty:"

He caid the rebeis riere

Al the time of thie Indice: krolina for Cuban rationalists,

•situatlons.

inicns,

Workett was guaic ly

and that he managed to slip

One was actircly inveived in

thie Atianta Constitition asad.

plane to ert up an ansato ales an carenit, comed onde fis hotel dele tonert

can en.bassy officials negoti.

base in Haiti; and both

role"" in the anti Castro airdi sile

conduct. Ile

in the Dominican Ricuublic

• Dijep pittis.

eracu.ted.by hclicopier.lo a

during the lig Autrica" In alleged

The feiler: indicimicit had

perscation lo put down a let curs and

a. conspiracy

munitions frott

A1.'

"Ile Comaunist novenen!

has percally dercaled ilsull"

olutio!.

Mania and dew York te triand

¡by furcing the l'nied States

Mitchell Livinesen WerPell

sivi

WerBel toid airporter. "do adopt sch a firm polic;,

111, vice president e Sionits,

lat tine tirac of the indicinent

ho commented at tie dire

an Allenta ecojons roccarca lei he

hat

witheirata

his

support from the liaition lare

and ranufarinting firmt, was

land th.:

Marathen

rait

oc-

pian

when it appeareil to ke

curre before

indicied

2::

ycürs

ago on'leadd touard direce militare con founded Sionics.

Verticll and

• chargra of rivintiné a federaliaction.

Jan forbiddire proparation of "li I'm callod upin açcia to

An Air Force olficer

a!;

a military capedition accinst a

¡fight Communiste in lite lievl-

1$

insertigationi

leon homisphere.

l'il do i" lie

¡for ie tote in three shipments;

triends natio» frai American sali, "Angthin, l've done los Werr

of anall arms frota Vielram.

denied repoits tliat

corritory.

iserved tie hert inicica: or tis

the weapons vere

intended!

for

rigat-wing

Macero

"I've bron involied in anti.

ailer custons agonis raidei an' communis!

actirities a lord

props and said he

himoris.!

", timir,"

s:in.

"Ive belet White in Victnons had hai teo

Island comp near Varation, the

DittiDican

scapons sent tu Ar.

Tla, where they seidi a small fighi the Cummamisis."

Mana via ladin for laboratory,

rescalch.

arsenal of weapoas and found

Aised Mensman

7s battle clad coiles and Arter-

In the Duminicon actioa ino

icans.

yer.

befnir.

lerict was

Nol on Island

creditid

with

pallar

imounded Amoriran

iout.of a bullet-riddtsi cor in

the island al the time of the

Santo Domingo. The newsran,

raid.

Miami licrald photographer;

Only sour vicris

allurticy la Wand arneunce rin suntire.

Fred . crown presient rt

the chara mas bring di Sicnici ales weri in

pa: tig.

1968

2.÷7

5841-759910

---

## Page 59

Viet ArmsSluipmentto Fla. Aired

By Bruce Galphin

¿Col.) Paui Marriott and made pressors minufictured by his

Masbina:on Pass Sia!! Weiler.

ATLANTA, Dec 1 - An As didhi even know about it

a scapogoat of him. Marriots firm. While he was there, hi

Niarriott, chicf assistant of said, various South Vietnam

lania weapons manufactures the Falin Armamen: Lavoid 'ese croanicationa and militars

sald today wat he and not an tors. under investigation fer officials gave him guns.

Air Force officer was responsi his role in the gun shipments.

verbell said he was inter

ble for three now controres. The Air Force has not jet re-

desird in resting the Sionics

sial shipments of small arins lessed a report on findings of stipurrisors on captured Rus.

{го.

Victnam to

Force Basc, Fla.

Eglin Air its investigation.

sian desianed

AK-47 machine

V'erbell is rice president of guns, aid that he sent a crate

And,

said the businessman, Sio.ies, an Atlanta wcapons back to the states via Eglin

Alitchell L.

Werbell 111, "He nscarch

apd manufacturing They

were

officially

regis

were irsing lo do a favor for company.

itered, wore delivered to At

ererybody.

- He said -he spert time in lania and are now "in various

"It's a shame They have Vietnam supervising the les: stages of disassembly in our

taken a nice officer like (Le, ng o! flash and sound sup. liboratory," he stated.

Washingísa Past. 2 December 1769

2.31

---

## Page 60

066-71-0248

equest concer

Liliation a

NEMORANDUM FOR iNO riOn, josoph J. Licbling

Jod: You may already knov it, but if you do not,

WerBell'a luwyeï, Eewin Marger, has taken this

line boiore. He was counsel for a Eritish pilot,

Haike, who was tried in Builalo in 195ó for

flying B-iss to Portugal vithout caport licenses.

Narger deve.oped the theory that thee Nights

had CLA approval and support.

This was totally

untrue as we testifica at the triüi, but Marger

scemed corvinced that he had à case. He seems

to bo easily convi-ced by his cliento.

Let me know if you want anything more..

s/Larry

(DATE)

7?5

FORM

sc.

AUG so 101

REPLACES

THICH MAY

10-101

1120100438

---

## Page 61

.. OGC 71-0248

..a

CENTRAL INTELLiGENCE AGENUT

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

23 February 1971

The Honorable joseph J. Liebling

Deputy Assistant Secretary of Delense

(Security Policy)

Departmeat of Defense

Washiagion, D. C. 20301

Dear Vi. Liebliag:

Re: Herßell, Mitchell L., I

In response to your letter of l6 February 1971 cöncerning

Vir. Vischell I WerBell, Ill's alleged affiliation with tne Central

Intelligence Agency, we have investigated the matter thoroughly,

and based on all the information available, the answer is "No"

for each of your questions numbered 1 through 6.

You should be advised that Mr. WerBell voluntarily con-

tacted a representative of the Central Intelligence Agency's

Domestic Contact Service in Coral Gables, Florida, and at

Vr. We-Sell's initiation furnished voluntary information for

the period ló Decemoer 1965 - 19 November 1966 with eleven

contacts: It should be noted that tre function of the Domestic

Contact Service is to receive information wnich individuals

feel is of interest to the United States Government. The office

is overtly listed in the telephone book under the Central Intel-

ligence Agency and, therefore, is readily available for contact.

If Vir. WerBell suggests an affiliation with the Central

Intelligence Agency, he is hereby authorized to divulge the

detaits of his alleged affiliation in the hearing so that he may

no: use ostensibie security as a means of avoicing answering

questions.

Sincerely,

- Atoesta

Lawrence R. Houston

General Counsel

01-259910

---

## Page 62

Office of last Secretary if Defence

Letter dated 16 Fet 11

Re: Wer Bell upplication for in intestrial

security clearance.

---

## Page 63

D

UNCLISSIFIED

L

4: ERNAL

ONLY

: ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT:: (Opranol)

ROGISTRATION REQUESI

FROM:

FI/DCG/INISRiGENCY SOURCE REGISIER

2'8.03

10: ¡Officer dien

burtlong)

wurben, and

DATE

natives

" IP/201 section

GA 20

UTENSION

5045

OFFICER'S

INIMALS

CONF" INTIAL

SECRET

36075

ISRM.

DATE

27 MAR 1972

2 2 MAR 1972

One i in or a core at on canta,

IP/SIREDI

GB 34

5 - 3: PLEASE HUSH

ABSTRACTING

S.

FI/ISR

2 E 03

201- 25991º

ABSTRACT X INDEX

DATE 81 MAR 1372- 22 MAR 1972

10.

11.

12.

FOAM

$-02

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

233

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 64

Mr Pecord in ma/lader.

?3:910? 197.

25:991.0

iii-

Losetta "etchly

SECRET

1ll.a.1DY

91-5.916

80: tes

DO NOT NOITE FRISE THIS SPACE

BICURIT.

10:

testres

23: 950: 1972

1797

-..

ITS & LOG

1:0-30

==:

1sooi no

UTILIIATION

DE - CHECK

.DO.MGT WRITE BELOW THIS SPACE

ВІГИАЛУДЄ

1201 по.

120.380

OIS109

109 1797

SECRET

2,33

+14-77-4

SECRET

ritter IрI

I.S R

LOG

No Objection to Mogistration.

DCS reservos

tho rich: to coutoot subtect la accorcenco

with 1ts co0 misillites ander Note 2.

DOlD ips and c/i; but

will waive this

Fight

by cutual agreccent 18 his intended use so

requires.

"DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE

1si?l Support Stasr.

AT 1797

"1:1

rus.

-aUS

SECRET

2.33

SECRET

IS R

LOG

... .

PF.• Dfr.1s.

TRATION

UT:LIZATICA

RE -CHICK

10:

pr.s

DO NOT WRITE DELON THIS SPACE

10:

SECURATY

10:

10:

TEs

j2оs по.

22 ma77

180.381

їго

33 Mon

linight

untiliarica

a1- CurCE

DO NOT LOITE DELON

THIS

1797

SECRET

2.33

---

## Page 65

SECRET

filled In)

• COPY

REGISTRATIOK

/ISR

DE-REGISTRATION

RSe 24 L'ARCH

DW-2

DO NOT USE THIS SPACE

36,275

FATE

22. MARCH 1972-

259910

Est: 5:45

DEADLEE:

dong fire Broia;

WB R3 L, Mtchell LIvingston, Ill

WER - BELL

PLACE OF TIRIN

CA 1918

Pennsylvania

RESIDEArE

PRESERT EMPLOYEA

Highway 350, Powder Springs, Cobb County, Georgia

ADDITIRDAL

efense Systems, Inc., Pouder Springs, Georgi

15A7 170: NE DAY

Past Support Dept. Store, A at meater, Wi II

iS

-USA

OCCUPATION

President

RIDiCE

29 5 - 23-22 5.15

RESULTS

-DATE

TO: S & DR

24 March 72

NATIONAL

236852 Arra

1.

Ite ISR Las no recoid of a current opestional interest in Subject.

Inis is =st a registration..

NOTES

This jast for registration in the ISR was ciunged to a utilization

checi: a: the request uf irs. Goodall, USPiC, 24 March 1972.

3VB

23 MAR 1972

1H09

IS COPY

SECRET

'1??

---

## Page 66

DISSIM BY_

TOTAL COPIES

-SECRET

IMPOET

I CL.

BY: 007A22

AGENCY MESSAGE

DOVANCE COPY

ACTION LAIT

SSUED/SLOTTED

FILE,

VR, ADDO, DDO/DO, IP/AN, IW, FI SI DDO, SA. 4.

C1, CHIPS, CI/OPS, SOD 3.

ACTION О

ціЯ!

т 332389

PAGE -01

TOR: 2015267 JUN 73

IN 953234

WMIM

18306

SECRET 201451Z JUN 73 INTEL -

CITE WHAMIAMI 18806

TO:- DIRECTOR.

TDFIR-314/05249-73

UFP-92

INTEL HVAPOR

SUPDATA

VAGALLEY/VIKNOR-SCIN HEETING IN NASSAULTS JUNE IS.

VHKNOS-1 AND VWKNGB-2 INDEPENDENTLY SAID REAL AS

TROUBLE MAKERS PE ABACO WERE U.S.-MUNITIONS DEALERS

ASSOCIATED WITH MITCHELL WAR BELI

ATLANTA, GEORGIA, CLASSIFIED BY TURNER D. SAUNORAS.

INDEX WATKINS, FILE: 189-9-1. UFP-921.

FICED.

*20145174

SEC

9.5ú

ET.

201-2.59410

---

## Page 67

Intélligence Information Cable

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGECE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

STATEiINR MACC/MC (SLA) CLAÍNMCE NIC NSA XIAX SOO ONE CAS

ROUTINE

in: 953234

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

•DIRECTORATE

OPERATIONS

Classiliad br

stifmate Declarifictorica

ming Officer. Erecep

NO

FÖREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

honoral Doctorificanton Schoduio ol E.O. 11052 tramplion Coropory 18 (1), (T). Iposible to 1

THIS IS AN INFORNATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

CITE TDFIR -314/05249-73

DIST

20 JUNE 1973

COUNTRY

DOI

SUBJECT

BAHAMA ISLANDS

-=."=

ANTICEPATION THATZABACO SESESSIONISIS

WILL NOT RESORT TO VIOLENCES

ACO

SOURCE

THE GOVERNMENT OF THE BAHAMAS DOES NOT ANTICIPATE ANY

VIOLENCE AND/OR ANTI-COVERNMENT DEMONSTRATIONS BY THE ABAÇO

SECESSIONISTS DURING THE INDEPENDENCE CELESRATIONS. TROUBLE

IS NOT EXPECTED FROM THE COUNCIL FOR

A FREE ABACO AND

ERRIVSTON WAT KINS, LEADING SPOKESMAN FOR-THE ABACO

SECESSIONISTS AND FORMER FREE NATIONAL MOVEMENT (FNMS MEMBER

OF PARLIAMENT. TROUBLE MIY, HOWEVER, OCCUR AFTER INDEPENDENCE.

2. WATKINS IS CONSIDEREO TO BE AN ERRATIC PERSONALITY

WHO COULD TAKE EXTREME ACTION IF ABACO WERE IGNORED BY THE

GOVERUMENT AFTER INDEPENJENCE OR NOT GIVEN

ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE.

SECRET

---

## Page 68

3007

EDITIONS

IN

953234

TDFIR-364 05249-33

PAGE à OF È PAGES

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN THE MEANTINE, WATKINS VALUES HIS POLITICAL CAREER AND

WISHES TO REGAIN HIS PARLIAMENTARY SEAT, ME, THEREFORE.

•IS NOT LIKELY TO ATTEMPT ANY VIOLENT ACTION.

COMMENT:

THE BAHAMAS PRESS REPORTED ON 13 JUNE 1973 THAT WATKINS

HAD SEEN EXPELLED FROM THE INM. "ON IS JUNE-THE BAHAMAS PRESS

REPORTED THAT HATKINS HAD DECLARED HIMSELFON

ENDEPENDENT

REPRESENTATIVE IN PARLIAMENT AND-THAT THE COUNCIL FOR AFREE

ABACO WOULD BE CONVERTED INTO A POLITICAL PARTY.

3.

COMMENT: IT IS DOUBTFUL THAT

WATKINS' NEW POLITICAL PARTY WILL BECOME A SIGNIFICANT FORCE

IN THE BAHAMAS.. A: FEW OTHER ENM MEMSERS, INCLUDING POSSIBLY.

SIR ROLAND SYMONETTE, CLEOPHAS ADDERLEY AND

MICHAEL®

TOTE OURN. MAY JOIN THE NEW PARTY? ESPECIALEY

IF THEY ARE ALSO EXPELLED FROM THE ENI. IN THE FUTURE, A

THREE PARTY SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT TO INCLUDE THE PROGRESSIVE

16352125

LIBERAL PARTY, THE OPPOSITION INM AND THE NEW WATKINS PARTY

MAY EMERGE IN THE BAHAMAS.I

E1. 8. 5 799

4.

FIELD DISSEM: NONE.

: N

REPORT CLASS SEGRE TANO FOREIGN DISSEM

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER.

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFiCATION

iCHEDULE

OF E.Q. Ilbe2

EXEMPTION CATEGORY

58 C47, C27: IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF

IUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

SECRET

---

## Page 69

Lace Riguest fin AF OS1

Case # 04D74(24c) 3232

Cated 8May70

---

## Page 70

FBI document datads May 70

frim Atlanta, Ga.

Sukject: Mitchell Livingstm

iverbell, III

Sionies Lab

Route I, Powder Springs,.

Georgia

---

## Page 71

FBI document

datid.3Man

170

Bureau file: (11) 62-108465

Subject: Mitchell dvingsten Werked.

II - Neutrallty (Matters

---

## Page 72

23 rebruary isTo

MENORANDUH FOR TRE RECORD

Sutject artlele reported that a CES cameramas,

JAmEs. HILSON.

had contacted CIA agente in Houston while

on s space shot assignent in 1966, and that the CIA had

Informed the FEl, who called on WILSON and referred bin.

to U.S. Custars.

RH Division has ascertalaed that on 30 June 1968,

a Jones WILSON called the CIA Dudy Officer of the Domestle

Contact Service (DCS) office in Hougton,.

Texas, anú sub-

sequently related a story alout a proposed plot beini

staged in the u.s.

to invade Halti and overthrou the

Duvaller Government, and that CES had convinced the parttes

nvolved that they should allor CiS to photograph ano

televige a special program on the preparasions.

WILSON

requested and receired agsurances fron the DOS officer

that he gould

not be identified as the source of this

inforantion.

3.

On 6 July 1966, FA Diviaion sent a kilo meri

randum to the federal bureau of Investigation and the

Department of State which

Porgaried a regune of WILSON's

story to the Des, without identliyin? the source.

The

rensrandun stated that the source'g notive for disclooing

this Infornation vas to alert the U.s.

Governsent to a

potentially

eaharrassing altuation if 18 were involved

In AD

Ingecuro operation.

The JAFAVE Station also pagged

a regume of thie information to the U.S. Custons Bureau

In Miaal.

Except in connection with this report, there 19

no record of any operational livolsenent ly the Agency

wIth WILSON.

201-259916

---

## Page 73

....

MEHORANDUM FOR : Chief, SOD/GB

SUBJECT

: Possible Clandestine Planning Involving

Balti

REFERENCE

: Your Menorandun, Same Subject, dated

30 January 1970

TH/? conveyed the substance of your first

menorandun on_this.-subject-to_the-FBI,which has-109-

advised us that the Office of Special Investigatlons,

Mandathe Alcohol, Tobucco and Firearng Divteloa

For the Internal Revenue Service, Trengry Department,

have both hed reccat lavestigative interest in HEKBELL's

activities.

Under these circumstances, WH/T suggests that

LTC Cochrane

be advised to inforn an appropriate USAF

statements.

security office of. Mr. HERBELL? Inquiry concerning

should insure that any follow-up

those statements would be properly coordinated with

other lnvestigatlons.as.nay-be in process.

David L.

Smock

C/WH/T

5741-258910

---

## Page 74

SOD ?.

1340

3 !

MENORANDUM FOR: Cluei, WH/7

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Poasible Clandestine Planning Involving Haiti

Memorandur for C/WH/7: Samo Subject,

dated 15 Jasuary 1970

1. On 28 January 1970, Mr. Mutchell Livingaton WerBell Ili.

Vice President of SIONICS,

Inc., told TIC Barney Cochrane, USAF.

that he had not been contacted by any interested represontative of

the U.S. Government concerning the information pertaining to

Haltian plotting passed previously. Mr. WerBell said that his

reference to the plan being initiated in Canada ia a blind and that

the plotting Is based in Haiti. He also stated that he has been

approached to provido the equivalent of live million dollars worth

of arms lo the group and that the plotting had I rench backiug.

The above information was received from LTC Cochrane

by LTC Charles Williameon, USMC, and is provided to W$1/7 for

disposition and action.

This information, to the beat of our know-

ledgo, has not been acted upon by SACSA; however, Mr. Werßell

is concerned that no, action is being taken or apparent interest

shown:

= 2:

Chief, Ground Branch

Spocial Operationa Division

---

## Page 75

20 January 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE:

SUBJECT :

M1tchell Livingston HERBELL III

Memo from C/SOD/GB to C/WW/7 dtd 15 Jan 1970

'Subject: Possible Clandestine Planning Involving

Ha 1t1

SOD/GB, adviged 19 January 1969,

after my phone call to Mr. Barquin pointing out the tbird

Agency aspect of the Herbell report, that Col. Willianson*

tag

checked with his friend Col. Cochrane, and that the

sitter stated he had taken no otber action with tils

14r0 and intended to take none: Col. Cochrane apparently

regarde the info as being none of his own official buginess

and

telling his friend (Willianson) about it as'a

private citizen.

Suggest we just use Willlanson as the source.

C/WWV7/BT

Distribution:

- 200-3-1810

1 - WH/7/HT Chrono

2.25

141-2599:

---

## Page 76

500.10: 057

15, JAi iero

MEMORANDÜM FOR: Chief, WH/7

SUBJECT.

Possible Clandestine Planning Involving Haiti

:1. The Vice Preaident of SIONICS Inc., Mr. Mitchell Livingston

WerB-Ll III, contacted LTC. Barney Cochrane. USAF, assigrod to

SACSA, in early January 1970 and said that he learned of the existence.

of plans for a special clandestine operation based perhaps in Canada

against President Duvalier's regime within the next four months.

Mr. WerBell said that he believes this effort hag a good chance of

BUCCESS BINCE

it is well financed and direcied."

Mr. WerBell conveyed

to LTC Cochrane that he is willing to reveal all that he knowa concert

ing the organization and its plan to interested U.S. authorities.

2.

The above information was obtained from LTC Cochrane by

LTC Charles Williamson, USMC,

assigned to SOD/GB. SOD and the

Office of Security have an extensive file on Mir. WerBell who has a

long history of worldwide involvement in borderline and sometimes

illogal international gun deals.

It is felt by LTC Cochrane that

Mi. VierBell'a story is plausible and warranta furlher investigation.

Ms. WerBell'a moliva for revealing this sype of information at present

could be an effort to relieve prescure on his firm and hirself for gun

deale chat did not conform to U.S. export control regulations: and

aro

belng Investigated and warranta pending.

To the best of our knowledge, no action has been taken on this

information by SACSA

98-26

Merce

fraise.

Casimiro Barquin:

Chief, Ground Brasch

Special Operationg Division

PALL E

---

## Page 77

Cable from

FBI dated 22 gen 20-he

Lady: Mite l in I helding Tite.

1 2/!d

---

## Page 78

"1o0122/202

d1:r

1TL:

SILE 5:

diet:

R. LH249:2t

1/T/i7

1300-5555

39 DAN 1920

AHAT DISINT MATIC:

016190:8

201.253910

SECRET

СІТЕ DIRECTOR

003873

7

FROM: CENTRAL, INTELLIGANCE AGANCY

SECRET/NO FORGIGN DISSEN/INTINAL USE OMIY

SUEJECT: INTERNAL SECURITY - HAITI

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELT III

222166

REFERENCE AS NADE TO TITS AGANCEIS CSOT 316/02323

DATED 27 JUNE 1960; SUBJECT: VERBELL, HITCHELL LIVINGSTON III,

A COPY OF FHICH WAS SENT TO YOUR CUREAU.

2. IN FARLY JANUARY 197O, A USUALLY RELARTE SOURCE

REFORTED INC: FOLLOKING INTORPION CONCERNING SUSJEST.

ACCORDING TO SOURCE, WERDELL HAS STATED TIAT HE KNOWS OF

PLANS-TOR A SPECIAL CONDESTONE OPERATION AEMNST PRESIDENT

DUVALIER'S REGIME IN HATTI SCHEDULED TO OCCUR WITHIN THE

NEXT TOLT HUNTES, WERBELL SAID TIE OPERATION, WHICH MIGHS

3* DE BISED IN CANDY, IS WELL FIMSCED AND DIRECTED AND, TH

HIS ESTINATION, HAS A GGOD CHANCE OF SUCCHEDING. SOURCE

SAID WERELL ESPRESSED HIS WILLINGNESS TO LEVEAL ADDITIONAL

INFORMATION TO INTERFSTED U.S. ALTHORITIES CONCENNING 'TIT

PLANS AND TIE ORGANIZATION BEHIND THE CLADESTINE OPESATION.

COORDINADIEG CILICIE

Continuca. ..

RELEASING OFFICEA

R:19128

•incorastie

SECRET

AUTHESTICITAD

FEPROCUCTICH DY OTHER THEN THE DESURIG OFFICE IS FACEDITED.

9:22

--are:

7

---

## Page 79

NE3:A0: 80119

S2LES:

SECR 1!

for to

'E=:

P.TT:.

AT:

ATE:

BELE GECHEIARIAT DISSENICATIC.:

PER

OAT:

Г

O I FILE. VE.

le lasailications.

(glits)

SECRET

PAGE THO

CITE DIRECTOR

003$79

SOURCE COSENTED THAT VERBELL'S NOTIVE FOR REVEALING THIS

INFOSILTION TO U.S. AUMIORITILS AT THIS TIME MAY BE THE

HOPE OF RELIEVING PRESSURE ON HIS FIRM AND HINSELE FOR

- BUSHESS TRANSACTICS HELIEVED TO_EE PRESENTLIUNDER

JAVESTIGATTON FOR POSSIBLE VIOLATTON OF U.S. ERRONT

CONTROL REGULATIONS.

3. THE FILES OF THIS AGENCY REFLECI TINT WIREULL IS

VICE PRESIDENT OF SIONICS, INC., OF ATLANTA, GEORGIA, AND

TAT HE FAS BEEX THE SUBJECT OF PREVIOUS INVESTICARIONS

SS YOUR BUCHAU IN CONECTION WITH HIS AURROUS BUSINASS

TRANSACTIONS IN LATIN AMERICA, THIS AGENCY WOULD APPRECIATE

INFOR

THE ALLEGED OPERATION REFERRED TO IN PARACHAPI TWO ABOVE.

END OF ANSS.IGE

BASED ON:

Subject:

Dated

Jae-52:2271016

Possible

Clandestine Planting Involving Halt!

15 January 1970

C/wH/R

C/C1/LIAISON

FROE

RELEASING OFFICER

COOZINATED CELICESS

23ECRET

CAFiCia

7

---

## Page 80

SSGRET

IO:

Csiel, Counteriatelligenco Divialos

Directorate of Special Investigationa

The Laspector General, USAF

Doputy Director lor PlaDa

SUBJECT: O WERBELL, Mitchell LIviagston In

lo Rilurence lo made lo your request dated 28 Miay 1969

coacerples Sabject, bora 8 March 1918 la Philadelphis, Pennaylvania.

The files of lala office contain the following" informalioa.:

According to a summary report deted 19 Marca 1969.

complled from namerous documents, Subject was ai interent to

Chia Agaacy lo 1959 when li was discovored that he was involved

With RAtI-CASTRO plottera ls tha Domialcan Repablic. Further

investigallon aleclosed Subjact to do noscrupaluts-a wheeler-

dealér ard promosor of grandlose uchemes, with a history of

mo'erialling in areas and aluationa wbero he can make a quick

proll. The repori alav révealoù dusi Subjact, la his loreiga

dealiago, had miarepresented limoell as ao employee aí the

United Starea Goreromeat and tha Contral Ictelligence Agency.

3.

In Marco 1969 Subject was in Thailand conducting 9r

attemptlog to condees busness with the Royal Thal Covernment.

CSC1-316/02323-69 iras

Escl. I name chock

30: A/Sis

CC: . Departmens of Stato

CC: Defense Isselligence Agoacy.

CC: Foderal Bureau el lovestigation 31

RID/CE:

JKS/MB/nkc

BASED ON:

CIR -88114, 19 March 1969 (to Bangkck)

FILE IN:

201-2599105

NET

201-259910

---

## Page 81

here!

Trace Request from AF, Contentelligers Dision,

Directorate f Special Lovestepations

File N. 04D 74(24) 3232 dated dated 25myg19

---

## Page 82

•SECRET. TELEPOUCH

D.ISP NO

DATE

FISA-33, 159

38 JUNE 1969

FILM

NOVE

INDEX

FIl.E

TO

.

NONE

NONE

CHIEF, FAR EAST DIVISION

INFO

NONE

FROM

SUBJECT

CHIEF OF STATION, BANGKOK.

- @ SIONICS INC. PROPOSAL TO RIG FOR SNIPER TRAINING

PROGRAM

ACTION

'"REF

..

NONE

FT 9W -16,321

1•

STAT LON HAD SEEN PUBLICATION CITED PARA ONE OF PEE

VER BELL FIOST CAME TO ATTENTION OF STATION IN LATE MARcH

1969, WHEN ME WAS IN CONTACT WITH BPP IN BANGKOX. AFTER DECEIVING

DIR 98114 IN RESPONSE TO OUR TRACE REQUEST, WE SUSGESTED TO SPP

THAT. THEY WOULD DO WELL TO AVOID HIM. WE HEADD NOTHING OF HIM FOR

THE NEXT FEW WEEKS. HOWEVER, IN LATE APPIL AND EARLY MAY HE WAS

BACK IN THE SPOTLIGHT AND, WE DICOVERED, IN TOUCH WITH A VARIETY

OF PTO AND U.S. MILITAPY "ELEMENTS."" WE PROMPTLY PASSED THE GIST

OF HIS REPUTATION TO KEY PERSONALITIES IN THE MISSION INCLUDING

AMBASSADOR; DEFENSE ATTACHE, ARPA, SA/CI, U.S. ARMY CIC, OST AND

J-2 MACTHAI, WE PARTICULAFLY STRESSED THAT HE WAS NOT SPONSORED

IN ANY WAY SY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT. MIS NAME HAS COME UP CONSIST-

ENTLY FOR PAST SEVERAL MONTHS AND WE HAVE PULLED VERY FEW PUNCHES

IN DESCRIRING KIM, EITHER TO AMERICANS OR THAIS. IN FACI, WE WOOTE

. •

A MEMORANDUM EXPPESSING OUR PESEOVATIONS, PASSED IT TO J-2 MACIHAI,

AND SUGGESTED HE BRIEF THE Ú-2 MINISTRY DE DEFENSE ACCOPDINGLY. WE

ALSO SENT A BURN NOTICE MESSAGE, BANGKOK

TO ALL FE STATIONS.

3.. AFTER DYNAMIC SEGINMING, WEDDELL IS NOW SUFFERING EXPECTED

SECRET

TFLEPOUCH

- FTSA-33, M58

PAGE UNE

i: star

GS COPY

FETCARED

201-259910

---

## Page 83

SECLET

TELEPOUCH

FISA - 33, 8.68

PAGE TWO

SETBACKS. THE EMBASSY HAS SEFUSED TO ENDOOSE HIM AND HIS PRODUCTS.

MACIHAI HAS AGREED TO FUYISH TO RIG SOME OF THE ITEMS HE WAS

ATTEMPTING TO PEDDLE, AND SEE HAS COOLED CONSIDEPASLY DE SIONICS

PAPTICIPATION IN ANY ASPESI OF COUNTER INSURGENCY EFFORT. WER-

BELL'S PUNNING MATE, MISE! WAISON, HAS ALREADY LEFT THAILAND.

WEBELL IS SUPPOSED TO LEAVE SHORTLY. WE WILL MISS HIM.

ED GAR N. DANAGE

DISTRIBUTION VIA TELEPOUCH

2 - CHIEF, FE DIVISION

7: M4000.44

2.:4

---

## Page 84

Strate Dipt. Telegram

BANGKOK 8458 datail 25 Jure '69

Subjecti Export License for

Ingram, Submachina Gun

manisper ar notino dotati:

---

## Page 85

lice tua

Hic"-16501

HIA:- 261-251916

DATE • M3 URE 196?

1:05? - 18"E

FILM - HOE

-CHIEF

OF SISTION, FAICHCY

JIFS

FRCY

S!SJECT-

CHREE, FAR EAST DIVISICH

SIDHIOS, DIE. PROPCEAL TO FIG FOR SNIPER TRAIGING

PROSP.AN

ACTICE R

PIRECTOR

C:1!4

1. POSCHL:& PRICRITY GIDER TM 403749 COPY CF SIONICS

PROPOSAL • ELTRALIZATIO! CF THE CORMURIST TERICIST THREAT

I THAILAND GETAINED LOCALLY FROM LAREAD WHICH STATICH MAY

ORTHY NOT HAVE SEEN.

2ACEPROPOSAL ESSENTIALLY HAS CIVILIAN FIRM INSERTING

ITSELF TO MILITARY ADVISORY POLE WITH OSVICUS PURPOSE OF

PEDOLICE ITS HARDLARE AT SUESTARTIAL PROFIT YET COVERING

SE AISELA TE SEMI-DEFICIAL SUPAOSIS THAIS FALL FOF APPROACH

i THIS SOST, TUCY CALL EVENTUALLY REALIZE THEY HAVE SEEN

TAKE: AND TALE COULE HAVE FAIFLY SERICUS GSPERCUSSIONS ON

THAT-LE RELATICIS.

HE FARTICULARLY CONCER'ED SINCE PER REF

CUTRALL HAS FEICHARRTOG NEPRESENTITC HIMSELF AS RETIRED

CELET-LATE AE LOCAL CHIEF OF WEFIRCO FYI, WE UNDERSTAND

?! HEr!CT ITTIE !: PROPPSAL ARE QUITE COCD SUT NOTE THAT

PIC' ITORE COULE BELAGE AVAILAGLE TERCUSH REGULAR MAP CHANNELS

ira-

is

F/15L

FTO -16301

CS COPY

PAGE CHE

201-259410

:2.:7

---

## Page 86

HOOT EMBET TELEPOKES

FT7:-16301

PAGE THO

CHIRA THE GHATION 1S HOT JY FOSITICK TO EXERT

IATE DRA CHORES MEGREND ETH MEAL 1F I: CURDENT UPCH KOFIRS

TO COERCEO CACHO ACTUAL, G'EISSANCE ANE ALL OTHER INTSPESTED

PIST:BA 2I HERBRULE BACKOROLHD SLE CUP VERY STRONO FESERVATICNS

10. 001HE THE LALIDITY CE THIS PROPOSAL TO CONTRIBUTE SUS-

STEMTIALLE DTO THE DEFEAT OF CONTURIST TERFORISE AND SUZVERSION

I: THAILAND'' AS AVERTISED, AND EVEN SIRONGER RESERVATIONS RE

AY CFFICIEL I'VEOLVEMENT WITHERBELL.

4, FURINEP CHECH LA 201 FILE INCICATES SUBJECT REFS

ENTERES MILITARY SERVICE IN APRIL 1943, WAS COMMISSIGNED 2ND

-LIEUTE SPHTH SIGNAL-CORPS-JUNE-IS44 AND-ASSIGNED-TO-CHINA-

SHAMA TREATERO SUSUECT WAS ASSIGNED IC OSS FROG APRIL UNTIL

DECCANER TAS WHENRE RETURNED TO SCLACY AND NAS- DISCHARGED

AS 13T LIEUTEGAGTO IT ACDITIO" TO FOUP CAMPAIGN MEDALS,

SUEJECI SAS AWARDED SOLEIEFS MEDAL FOR PERSONAL HEROISM

EXHIRITED IT SAVING THE LIFE OF CHINESE SOLDIER WHC FELL INTO

ELECTRICAL TRANSFOPMERO RECORD INDICATES NO FURTHEP MILITARY

SEPVICE.

с^5,

ЗА!ЗИСК

Headquarters:

1

- FE/TBL/T

1 - RI/SD

1

- CI/OPS/FE

1 : SOD/GB/MS

CI/OPS/FE:

ACFE/TBL

Robert D.

SECRET PUSAT TELEPOUCH

FE/TBL/T/

/SOD/GB/MS/

CTWilliamson:dsr/ 1742

122

(In Draft)

FIQW-16301

PAGE TWO END

211)

CFE

William E. Nelson

191.908

23 June. 1969

1201-259910

---

## Page 87

Dept. of State.

Telegram

STATE: 10/507. dated 20 JUNE 69

Subject: Export License for

Irgram Subrackine Gun

---

## Page 88

State Dept. Telegram

BANGKOK 8235 dated 20 Jer2:69

(re: import license)

2-12

1718.92

---

## Page 89

State Dept. Telegram

STATE: 087398 dated 29 May69

Subject! Starlight scopes and

Silencers

---

## Page 90

FREE ENS

PIAT. DISSEMINATION E

"CLASSIC IMES.

SECRET

tron filied Ini

MASUED

REPROS

INDEX:"

"OH OF THIS COPY PRO-BIES

ves 1 no

CLASSITY TO MILE NO.

POUT: SAND OR INITA:

• SEEN BY

isin

ADVANCACOTY

o—::

STRAT

O'SSEN D

BRANCHO

DRIO COPY MILE. VR.

860

cheerleo

25 E CRET: ET: MAY MAY CITE BANGKOK

SAIGON INFO: DIRECTOR, VIENTIANE,

DJAKARTA,

SEOUL,

REF: DIRECIOR 88114

BANGKOK ONLY)

!: WE HAVE BEEN PLAGUED FOR SOME WEEKS NOW

BY MR. MITCHELL L. VERBELL TTI, VICE PRESIDENT AND

DIRECTOR OF A AND D OF SIONICS,, ATLANTA, GEORCIAD

VERBELL DESCRIBES HIMSELF AS. A COUNTERINSURGENCY

EXPERI, HAS A V'ARIETY OF WEAPONS IO DISPLAY, CLAIMS

TO BE A RETIRED COLONEL; AND LAST WEEK INTRODUCED

HIMSELF AT

A LOCAL NIGHTCLUB AS CHIEF OF WOFIRM IN

THAILAND.

20 WERBELL HAS A HISTORY OF SHOWING UP IN

TROUBLE SPOTS WHERE HE CAN MAXE A FAST BUCK.

HE

IMPLIES THAT HE IS U.S. GOVT CONNECTED AND PRESENTS

A DEMONSTRATION OF A VARIETY OF EXOTIC

WEAPONS THAT NEVER

FAILS TO IMPRESS. REF

201a872511

DESCRIBES HIM AS AN UNSCRUPULOUS OPPORTUNIST WITH

A REPUTATION FOR LIVING BEYOND HIS MEANS.

10

DESTROY D sr6.

26 MAr69 IN 666023

FE BEC

.A9377ACT

CS COPY

SECRET

1.:3

26. May 69

201-259910

---

## Page 91

•BLE EC

TADIAT DISSEMiN: 1IC:.

R5O:, UAI: NOTTI

CLASS TO DIESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

Minora Las

(wnenf..od t.)

asocial a coo

REPRODUCTION OF INS COAT PROMIBITED

ROUTING AND/OR INITiALS. SEEN EY

ASVANCE COPY

ISSUED

MOттeо

ACTION

RID COP:

CLASSIFY TO PILE NO..

X-RIO TO MILE NO._

PILE NO CRET TO

INFO:

PILR.VR

BRANCHO

DESTAOY 810.

PAGE

? BANGKOK

SECRET

3. WERBELL IS AN AMERICAN CITIZEN, BORN 1919,

SERVED IN OSS, HAS SHAVEN HEAD AND HANDLEBAR

MUSTACHE. REF ADVISES THAT FULL DETAILS OF HIS

BACKGROUND SHOULD NOT BE PASSED ID LIAISON SINCE

HE IS U.S. CITIZEN. HOWEVER, STATES THAT LIAISON

CAN BE INFORMED SHOULD HE APPEAR IN YOUR AREA,

490/80 620003

THAT HE HAS AN UNSAVORY REPUTATION, HAS NO U.S.

GOVT CONNECTIONS, AND ANY DEALINGS WITH HIM SHOULD

BE APPROACHED WITH EXTREME CAUTION.

4. FOR SAIGON: WE UNDERSTAND THAI. WERBELL

RECENTLY VISITED SAIGON AND DID HIS THING WITH GEN.

ABRAMS• WHO WAS SUITABLY IMPRESSED, AND WERBELL

IS NOW SETTING UP A SNIPER TRAINING PROGRAM. -

S. FILE: 2811-259910

SE GREI

69, 1 & 9Ay

SECRET

---

## Page 92

SIOnICS

1EIGACMTI

6558:5:33492

2ù May 19u9

Air Chi: Marshal Dameo Chullasapya

Chief, Joint Chiefs of Stall

Supreme Command, RIAF

Ilangkox, Thailand

-Dear Air Chief Marsbal Dawee:

Sionica, Tric. is pleased to subinit thia proposal in responso lo

the urgerit sequiraiient to neutralice the communist terroriot

wirear in the border areas of Thailand. This requirement was

lirst broughe in our a:untion during the recent irip lo hrcatened

border areas of Thailand made by yourself, Air Vice Marsbal

Manob, and Major General Pradari, accoinpanjed by our field

representative to Thailand, Mr. Mitchell L. WerBell, III.

This urgent requirement. was o! courge lurther discuosed with

you during your recen: visit io Washingion to aliend (be luneral

of General Eisenhower::

In consequence we have prepared a pilot program with the objective

of neutralizing ibe Coinmuniat terrorial shreat in Thailand. Wo

• have enti led he program "Neutralisation of the Communist Tortoriat

Threat in Thailand" with short titla NCITT. In stope the NCTTT

enconipasses jive niajor phases and apans a swelve mon:h program.

Basically we ofier a proven program based, in pari, on the out-

giandingly successiul.U. S. Sch Division Sniper Program in the

Delia of Vietna.:. Finally, and nost imporien:ly, ihis prograin

is also bised on Special Operationa prograre executed by menbera

of he Sionics organization during wartime, cousieringurgency and

guerrilla oporations executed in South Asia, Europe, South America,

Dominican Republic, and Vietnam.

We have selected a car, of highly qualified experts whose combined.

capabilities represen: all ibe disciplines required to the planning

and exece ion oi this program..

---

## Page 93

in ries di lu abure, Sionics, Inc, ausurce vou that he dull resourceo

of the Corpora ion vill be prouder for he successful performance of

this work.

We look forwardio he oppor unly oi surving the Royal

Thai joverniten: in order lo con' ribule io the dulea: of Cominunies

erroriom and subversion in Thailand:

Wiit Warn Personal Regard and Respect.

27

Sincerely.

Sionics

til from

Fred N. Brown

President

2,12

---

## Page 94

'''

et Ctt:

rllorIn! Ne di.

eocarentotm

It telftiss

tuan 1: OPaIOE r30t19

asonsnd,909samsis

.."ita

• 402

-a".

inr s

aarpia, 2oteed

1ae, mint chieit e" ttief

cltoma Conman:,

Lancte".

"iailar

na ianao as

i Iu.tCa.

Idic.

=12.

# 002 A65r

.3ro-eae

Ceonaur rn chip eeeuaei?

-592=L9

---

## Page 95

as furnished herrin-:

-all not in disclosed outride the Royal Tlini

t::+

Lnitad iratos cructreat or

li tailiented, unad or discloser! in iole or

•at for any purere: otier tion to evaluate

d!

ro0sa1.

provide! tiat it a contract

is

sara: to

t!:is

nEferor

5sresult of or

correction

with tie curiosion ot cue:

•===

currarents riall

•are tli: right to

iu: licito. use, or disclose tin data to t'e

it or 2500ides in tun contrast. cis restric-

r...

not linit those

'rivorar ents

right

se intorrario concained an such data if

Nothiree fron another sources

SIOTICS.

I ::c.

itlanta, ricoria

2,12

---

## Page 96

222 22003203

al actin

inctive. '

no. "triniation 20d lanageient

caraticana

3.

ration

Taller of ritar carter

113.33

tl: organication and trainin:

...

Lil:

de.loirent an

insertion

minter/:iller Tears:

initiation

110.0110:15

E.tctdeescre 02002202122.o5522542aF4F

2.17

1.3

12.1

12

1.3

16

18

125

29

---

## Page 97

:7:1-7:37.

toe1.

- 1 1.:

•aria, dente coregata lee tea

...

---

## Page 98

..:

Malam Bittit

-werent of tailor.

riat the unlué cagabilitice of clunter, inso can provida one

isver to stoping coimonist terrorian in Phailan!, do save

citier cord on, are coring on, or will soon bedore

involved

in wrojonto or this die, mich vill insure imecinto vorking

10:159406 145 essential olerents for tire len solution:

¡o have istaulision fire liaison with the koyal Thai

overnment

inclute

Paprime Contain Acadgearters, ine, U. Sardaassie USoldy

", dadd tillal, All. idditionally, "InIC: cas established

side ind succeraful relationships sit: d. 6. covernment and indus-

trial arjantastion concerned rite tie pronier.

incenamence, it is considered tise sIoNICs, Inc. would

ing at to catala tie. final broiler of arrasting communist

Suurersion in thailand. it is our minion that the ratiocology

-27361

•e cast till te to field a team of professional or 1i1uly

untilio: ilitary tocinicians, bacica lie appropriate sapport.

and resources, inat will be fully capaila

0i exccutigg this glan

in the conglut: raticinction of the rocal tuai dovermont.. 50

-1-

2,12

---

## Page 99

ww.rersoun: irmediately.avnilal.lptrat.represent

old tent of counter-insurgency operatirl earerience and

Ta ice demo tues of the procle a this proposal 1s

dealt outliad lan imacating hos the eyerttina will te

this volume presents our operational proposal,

ales ith a projosed management plan, a summary of coryorate

experienco, and the resures of the military and teclinical

personnel croutes, inc. proposes to assion to the cffort.

The

cost irovoras is sumitted separataly as VOLUF II.

212

---

## Page 100

Roman lan which will contri mite lo sis neutrali-

I Hill: Mortalit

untenceal cuirents for prober colution:

"Hito, ine. comider that the basic succuss of this plan

hili depend is large cenoure ne fielling a team of linowleugeable

1. ino: thailand ind the considerable Cormunist

throat to its worder areas.

oing t principal tessomlities in the

wal@-overment-ts-concernedith-neutralizing the

Mor the principally

Urs Provernheat bittelals

in miland, out giutnan, and vashinitor, !. C. concerned with

assisting tie inü in neutralizing tiis throat.

1. l'ully understand the threat of comrunist

terrorism and subversion ind posses? the indredge and skitti

to counterast til: threat,

a so aneward be able to spoto crseland the

tactics, tecaiues, organicational and training precedures.

and reasons and euiprent techniques/employment to daleat this

6. rossess lony eiperience and proven skills

in defeatiny an insurgent threat.

-3

2.12

---

## Page 101

Systematic Introdustion of Military Judgement

Ly uefinition the neutralization or defeat of

communist terroris: consists of the sociulized application

of inunter insurgency operations by tie exployment of intelli-

yence: aspeinlogical operations; hunter-tiller operations to

include jungle, nountain, sir, riverina, border, and village

scuiit; operations: communications: logistics; specialized

training ani equivrent, and other techniques. SIONICS; Inc.

considers that the technigues designed by our Corporation to

neutralize communist terrorism in the border areas of Thailand

is based on sound past experience in this field and would lead

to the development of a wide-spread organization and system

within the royal Tliai Armed Forces (PaRE), the Border Patrol

FOLiCe (BEP)e and the Thai National Police (TVP) to counteract

this threat throughout the country.

204002642226p4 25

establishmentros a syston ant organization to neutralize

the Communist threat cannot be accomplistied without reliance

on sound and informed military judgement based on proven

techniques. SIONICS, Inc. has pioneeres in the development

of these technigues which permit the systematic development and

use in analysis ant. exccution of

military and technical judge-

m-ment.s

The techniques and equipten: developed for this purpose

are resigned and operate for the "usual of normal" case in which

they will be usedsunder combat conditionse The capability that

accrues fron the employment of these techniques and equipment in

unusual or peculiar situations should te considered a bonus

effect rather than an

expected mode of creration.

2.12

---

## Page 102

06-0499

corridio leçtore Solated to coleon the Froblem

.rudid pollen deloron la lailong til tune Cloude testier,

corrie.

intimate

anted de collatium bitin end orrational area.

mari-

sionaldo me iftis critical. factors in counter-insurijened

auricion in si! meiiouical opirations -éfort that rust ve

nearer viti an; operation of this type. the key to success of

close peritions is to ilentily, infiltrato. bloci, ambush,

hurras:, uni stucraise reutralize the cheng:: 1h9 basic concept

0f accrations in en strider:in when an is mat vulnerable, in

is rear regas, ass vie is rovinu to his objestive, er just

Sar do onsetate aperate danthis

--™ =

the indiviouals that man. these tears

as icil

as troie way somand and direct then, will have to

in racially trained, euipper, organizel, and!, above all,

psychologicall: prachrad for these operations.

is a final note this operation to le successful must

e lully auphorses

21292

ission to atlard, chef susine.

2.12

---

## Page 103

005696503001

todtralicatiny of Comunist terrorist Threat

• in nailoni (icris.

c. §cope

tie score of this program enconvasses a tucive

conti, five duse coeration as follous:

inase I

Planniny, preparation, and installa-

tion of raining fonter:

Mase it selection of personnel, organization

STirse Do Privilional Grecial Oy rations Tinter/Siller Platoon

Pitnes

And TraiNing programs

Phase ific insertion of fIninori

into Fuctical

Area

of iserational responsinility, initiation of hunter/niller

overations

arjanizution, training aza insertion of tho additional

so tir platoons.

Piase I - lvaluation of operations to include

52h52000

-and administration.

mosa"" Eigansion of overations with three

who inflatoons. Contiquance 05. 09953419191502

include deer

penetration missions. Preparation for further expansion of

Le me decret

o. scietule

• see Figura

1.

2.12

---

## Page 104

up: rene Togetill have simmediately= avail able

a bein of ditemlitary in tochnical coverts to work on:

tie rejuet. ese forronel, lolly ir. litchell L. Werbell,

Ill, spritis: icle representative in thailand and Vietnam, will be

Duckel is appropriato civilian technical ersunrei dia would

provide expertise as required in the yeneral fields of sniper

and special operations training and the maintenance of the

oferational equippient and yeapons. The Corporation would assign

trese peoule to projects in accordance "ith their individual

caym ilities.

Program Schedule - Sce Figure 1 (NCTTT Program

schedule, iwelve Months).

During the first week after initiation of the

- proyram, Fireruell, as program manager, will neet with selected

tritary Research and Develooment Center:

(BRoC) personnel for the intelal establishment of weter planning

and organization of the joint PiRDC/SIONICS Operations Planning

Grour (JSUPG). At this time he will receive an indoctrination

orientation and guidance from appropriate Sypreme Command and

PIRDE personnel. Coordination, communications channels and

liaison requirerents will be established.

In this regard,

it is anticipated that a period or from eno to three weeks will :

be required for this initial planning and the establishment of

basic and detailed joint operational plans.

suring the next two weeks perioa, joint activity

will consist of the selection of appropriate Sniper Training

Ica: personnel from liTA units and Special Operations Hunter/

Killer

Platoon personnel from appropriate RIN, BPP and INP

-7-

2.12

---

## Page 105

wito-ind

77-7299+2200557992776

inather divisior in

we croconed into trained in rio U. t. sla division

Misper trinin; inOria in tia Vietnan Dulla, Jurin; this Phase

merconil sill i pruanizod into the s0 l/: Mlatoon structuro.

puriny the period oth through. the 12th neek,

"toon veronel weade de yndergoing the sniper training program

consistin; of vasic :irinu fositions and integrated acts of

sicotin::

ruitionally, during this perind, isops would estab-

lisa ::tandiny c'eratiny procedures and effect tie liaison with

moropriate Riar, arPiand Tir units in the joint Tactical Area

of peritions insponsibility (TAO?) selectri for the pilot

wrprojram.tor.tie.tircc.Frovisionalbpoci.al_Cperations_Huntcr/

Her slatoons

sat the end of the third prostam nonth,

the first tale ould be selected, organized, trainca and ready.

for insertion into the l'AUs.

suriry. the not phase, the operational piase,

the three luntur/riller teams of the first Provisional st il/k

Platoon rould ie inserted into the TAOR and established with

apuropriate thai ilcary and para-alitary vorder control

units had this time Gores advisory and technical personnel

vould be corring elosely with appropriate Jeops opposite numbers

in order to insure

proper

employment of the teams.

It

importane en note har hovever, diat at no aire ould stoics ser

tean ersonnel "e excected to actually direct or enter into

oporational ictivities of the special iporations lunter/filler

-8-

2.12

---

## Page 106

f1o.i

19t:, Stu, Gth, Ithe

ce due to careere personnel cold follon clouly so

warmon activities mt orinduet alti chest that counterparts

mentalled elunting do ten activities. murim tie mitire

ma-..cratisal lare continajo vaiuation of the Mor Frogram

soul in sarried on. it sone time between tie Sen and 6th

tuss rutal cision woylie inde with "20C officials

for reco injatiran to be made to the Rat: surrere Corrand for

the expansion of team activity and the inclusion of the two

additional caccial Oscration. Hunter/killer Clatonas into a

social recrations unter/killer corpary for further operations

and protection for acuitional villagesa-close operations could

Serdad to includa tend genetration gherations

135722

appropri.

ats and sormissile providing the nts outaths focuscion for

across the order onerations "an hot pursuit"

'of Conmunist

terinrints.

Juring the entire insertion and aperational plase,

it is.to.. mmerccrred that prychological operations will be

contacted it all tires in conjunction with Special Opcrations

corNeater/aller

HActivity.

the final thore ronts of the 12

5224 2 89477

ront capet rpgras schedule would so doroted to furthel expand"

sion as necessary of sucial operations tanter/Killor team

arranization of further. checial anorations

Huncor/.ilier rtnies

for employment throughout tub worder

arade of tillaari.

that rioting

2.12

---

## Page 107

130012

ryanization and caangement: (See l'igure 2)

•cause the innrence michelodick, Inc.

de reprisend this toget, the temportich officer (Mr.

croll is i discoter and lice presidont of sIdilCs and will

report sirietly to tir iresident of the corporation. . In this

nanner, it san issure you that to the extent necissary, the full

resourcus of the corporation can br ade availaila to yuarantee

a full; satisfactory rroyran.

In manuging this projest lie aroposed to guarantee

continually and consistency througliout the entire period of

this effort. The rey to this, of course, rests with the

versonnel assified. Frequent changes in personnal will-be

avoided and stage are requirad; recause of new skills

reins Eenwired, renlacerent personnel run be hased in wien

adequate overla? wherever possible. i full resume on tr. werell

ray be found in Fart VI of tris proposal.. It is to be noted

that he

has iad considerable experience in the counter-insurgency

field, aving served in South Vietnam and the Far East for

FIONICS since sertenber of 1968. lle has had long experience

acons and clandestine operations dating back to world war IT

at which thin he as a parachute unit Comander of a special

operations roup in

oss units operating in the Far East: Since

that time de.as-ocen-continuously interested in davelopment

of axotic rea.onry ard is the holder of several patents in this

fiald: Since 1959, he has devoted practically all of ais time

in anti-coamunist activities throughout central and

Scuth America

= 10-

2.12

---

## Page 108

192S

miter marge tell ted developint of prions tre;

Meet too Chi: 1ri0.1:.

•617 10965 101119 Meisted Of d tiri!

me toileryone sounter insurgency erent: througuout the free

orid. in pould un assisted wich necessary if ajor veneral

harold E. intisor, director of azulIcs and in caarjo of tecunical

Jantago His oaleuge and background in corporate planning,

rorla-ire joverument, and corporate contracts is considere

invaluatie to tie tiris yroup.

7a491.5

2.12

---

## Page 109

"CONCEPT OF OPIRATIONS

i veneral concert

The purpose of this progion will be to strike

the coimurist insurgents. where they are rost vulnerable and to

mush the operations of selected special Operations Hunter/Killer

Teams into present royal Thai Government ongoing Counterinsurgency

Programs based or. the proven and historic causes of victory over.

the Corrunists:

Aggressive anti-guerrilla tactics.

Removal of sections of the population thus

depriving irsurgents of contact with the people.

Renoval of the support of the population.

In attacking Cormunist terrorist vulnerability.

the Special gperations Hunter/Killer program will be designed

to operate against the enemy and concentrate on the following

cateyories of insurgent vulnerability:

l. Insurgent base area system which, although.

fragrented, is a coherent complex of combat, combat support, and

combat

service support facilities and activities which erbrace.

populated as well as remote areas. In this, Special Operations

hunter/killer Teams will, in the final phases of, the operation.

be directed to attack or operate on the perimeters of insurgent

base area systems.

retrial? Insurgent corbat units in avoiding prolonged

combat may use escape routes that will subject them ideally to

ambush by Hunter/Killer Teams. In this, the classic principals

of "the hanner and anvil operation" will be employed. Helicopter

-12-

2.12

---

## Page 110

Tea ta ta

orit: w1918 to o50tl Groan and Hillan darnloses in crier

wireliy itin tre copulation against and within

inist torrorists operate.

gration! Runsing

1. Phase 1' Flanning, frostration, and

Installation of iraining Center.

Initiation of plannin; by cloiles Progran anager

litary rasearch and develop-

cent (oc) salietal sersonnel. Establishment of a Joint ariey

Crude gried peration plening, rous (gerg) to devolos des

die cruanization. erminic and oscrational

erplorent of an au irovisional Spocial ircrations ilunter/killer

blatcon. in ilia, the sopo ray be expanded to include salected

personal tro. rucide usa, and dope as requirei.

s. Traininy Center ard Projtan

11) Estallishaent of the training center

More sorts tended naver scrool ana soccial operations

Prating cunter sill te estaclisted at a location to be esignated.

aü a jasis for sclool versonnel; a team of ona officer and ten

522s ile antectad Intorder En Save en ive to six weeks

remired to train this toon it will be necessary to draw this

team fror the tun meniors of the ara Black Pantier division who

- 13-

2.12

---

## Page 111

raduaten

ren Cedes. den Livision Sniper downd in Vietnat.

dersonnel i!!. rauiron to staff do coitry sith insaructs?

in reial picion, artillery fire adjustient, mvication.

operations. ¡ certrin nurter of Irain-

ing center command adinistrative personnel vill also te required...

12) trainina facility

¡ snipet training facility will be constructed

to acco: nounte lo students.

The facility should include a 40

oint firiny range ind adjacent classroors. The ranye should

duilt vith taract racilities at 150, 3on, 500, and 10û ncters.

¿ ovine target should do built on the 300 meter dutt

in addition

to the lixed. tirjets at that position.

Fauluncht

iD me sniper toans of the sour plenal.

will be equipped with vational mater. Crade 1-17 Pitles obtainea

Ly urgent its request to JUS:G. These rifles are jlass bedded

into inpro;nated stocks which are impervious to vater. The rifles

carefully tuner to provide a high deired oe

accuracy.

(2) Tie accurizad i-ld rifles will ve

quiened vite a 3a variable nower adjustable ranjing telescope

signe purr) pe talescore is counted la condunction with a

ballistic can.

Tie siurt reticle includes a pair of stadia

Lineser

varyan -.9405

of the telescone

until tir stadia

lines rofino 30 inch area on the target, the ballistic can

-14-

2.12

---

## Page 112

sis.

Come stition me virtune clininatis aith

i pleurante trild ircuric..rifle.could ie

ust accurately retinate the qua targut range and dither nold

ver tin: cards ne aujust tre clevatiy nocianisn on the sigat

to the estiratad range.

(3)

for night operations at luant one half

of the snipor ciries ill be iquippod kit, the VikO Starligt

win ptarlight sooses will be mountor on the il l4 rifles

at the stiper sapol and crosu durin; trainina. Tie sniper

rotains di: on scope/rille/suppressor corbination

during sub-

seruent.operastons.dlis.grocedura.assures.retentioil.of..zero

even though sa sight is signolated during Saliant sporatións

L...-.

Pirations.

(4) The animunition use! in sniper traininy

and corhat rust ie ?.622. 1. 5. National satch Grade.

15) ill la sniper rifles will be filled

with the Blundiraia noise suppressor.

free. Inclosure I for

souplets descri tion): i noted above, each stuaent will retain

wes.wwwtrifle/scoce/suppreusor.constnation.during/subsoquent

nueration.s.""

editional to thn basic sniver

rifla/

vith altornate moise cuppressed tearons on ar reuiret by the

-15-

2.:2

---

## Page 113

dealicon and incive 121 squirment

735:155

220015

11114e

the dooff will, duriny the ath and Sth week

olet 1 toeul of so igle jualified and otirated personnel.

atulents cordled into the niger progran fill ta salected fror

unlintairs.

no win are salected rust. invie 29/20 vision.

have quiltion or expert rifleran and do jell entivated

oldierd setierce in competitive sarismanship is preferred

•st is tus raditor:.

i. Erganization

sea Fijurs 3.

..De first 136 covisional fpecial Operations

r/s 12er ilatoon vill ie casandud into a flatoon lead-

will to euthorized during thase li to urovide for antestimated

sos attrition rate. "This figure is based

on the average attri-

tion rate at tireü.

s. 9th Division Sniper sciool in Vietnam.

Trius, total training strength will be 2 offaerrs, 12 Nco's,

and 66 Minior. Ci's or enlisted non for a total of 30 officers

Sherationil entrenath vill bo as chorn on rigure 3.

c. Training progran

Prior to selection and organization of

sfcluctod-itadmnt.candicates.foc.te.pro._Erovi3ipnal.@0ecial

curations Huntur/killer Platoon 1SD i/3 Pltn.) a troining

nrai will be propared and rehearsed with the following as

basic preccuts

-16-

2.12

---

## Page 114

.: 0::

ni meatin todied mabing ovine torotto tastruction rall

→a ratirai on the cotlods for estiratia; pint Over cotrire

rantone that firer can off set his oint of air to place the

•chat en terest, tellowing buis, students will loarn the restiods

sir caroin: le accuriz! rifles ejuired nice tie adjustable

ranjing selenerrie sight lini, tae VARD fterlight scope or

Suyores30?.

unt firing. viil la included in tir course and.each

mnstudmtgl-leirn-to.enulus.targets.with.nis.starlighit-scope=-

at ranges fa 20.

309. 372 000 70ters+

(risin adition to parkeranship train-

iny, student: ill se cooled in adjustriont of artillery fire.

day/nijut land ravination, nap reading, ind iccestion operations

150a Table i luck of these suijects is inbortant to the

sniper. la fretuntiy must select iis position from a situation

ma; and thion crowl to that location at night. It is essential

that me screct curben apontion, knochis souttion du relate

Constanto friendle undes and be alle to navigate to his pre-

salecter position.

"he ability to accurately adjust artillery

ratin; rounds sillfull so that illumination is places on target

in ruci: a rarner as to illuninate the tarjet and not conpromise

-17-

2.12

---

## Page 115

14-00000

weiper collion or that of ar adjeeret trinadl unit.

(iii) ."sulriction dirin. vill be

¡lie rajond de loreso due und 10o neursich night targets

Feat, "agite de core ma during tib nudliting courses. rei

prints iill i inario: for a first round ait anc five points for

a cecii round hit. i saximun score is loû points. di minirum

#lalifjing séore is 130.

(iv). Ixperience gained irom the U. S.

Stil

Division sniper senool sanas that approxinatoly 508. of the

students successfully corplete tue course. Tus. at least double

te nu:lut.ce final cardidates rogiirer sould te selected to

attend tie scilool.

c. Luiment

sue l'igure 4.

3. Trass iII - developent and Insertion of

iluntat/killer Teams: Iritiation of Sperations

a:: Insertion (See Figure 5.)

Juring this phase the first 2T3 Provisional

si ilh Pith. ill be inserted into a lactica: irea of Operational

escositility (ait) under operational sonurol of a ioyal Thai

my or iories tatrol volica unit. Tan Platoon will overate under

osirational ecatroi uf the RIA:or app commander whe will ie.

advised in the enplogment of the specia! Orerational iram and

tie thrce winter/iller reams by selected menceis of tie JSOPG.

•1

212

---

## Page 116

1 Mation relearatien:

nines from ti/d dearn till to detached to

Rate t! mice eni andeye dith arbush mitrols: this tocinigue.

his lenn aid bat usecesful retiod of asleurent. the sechniques

il eased extensively:

(a) snipers accoranur a 2latoon. arsesh.

wich aplore! : itud latoon arauch, the sniders tall reain

lone to the filtron comand posto then an elicit of the platoon

disorves blumy vetivati, the snipers are alerted to that locacion.

her then engage coloctirely at night with the starlight

¿cope

macared cupccessed or cita the dea acade and Tird? suppressor

sustay capliger. li trare is cut one tint song in the area,

he is taien inder fire ty a sniper. In this ray tir arbusa vost-

tio.

and location i automatic wearons are put copionised due

to ta miet curation of the rifle. trin a grous of courunists

aprotei: the lilling zone, the snipers enjose the leaders and

racio puerator nile the platoon fires into the eneral kill

20re. trotice toamnique vill be user in an arbust is that of

wing tie inters fire tracers to mark the flanks of an enery

forea tjen tai approached the position in su ren other tian

to muciate: bill conna snipers are also use: to cajage the

eniry win ccin the anbush site in order to attenet to draw fire

-19

2.12

---

## Page 117

citrog and tendutin di clere, inue dip. sting inti-distur-

mined trate brickle

ween meant of clotent will te that of placing Shipers ird

aise to di; it an decurity Clunent in a carefully selected.

snipr/rust esition.

The general area will be selected by

the joine wor cormander after considering anery activity, in

cin area and the advice of the sniper tear: the tear ill then

c"oved to a it or ip forward position were it is joined "y

the security alrint cauloped with :-l0's, an is, and an i/fRc-25

raç1o: 1e 251.9r/amusa position vill te eccupies just prior

to lark'ind selected to provide

taximum sane of fires and loca-.

tion within orcaconable distance fror a friendly unit. the

snipers lincoln continucus survillance of the arca. Lye fatigue.

as night is mininized by savinj the snipers alternate use of the

starlight scope tiroughout the night. The :i73 is m especially

seEl canon t the sniper/anbush position. As an example, the

ener; Excruartl; linve been observed in a tree line or vegetated.

arcia in which i sot was not possible due to lo: light lavel.

ising tracer fire and ly

directing :79 fire into the area, the

¡ecurity clunent forced tue eleny to nove ang' expose ticiselves to

subsogient sniper fire.

(ii)

stay-rehinds

/i icans trained for long ragge operations vill

in extrenaly artective in engaging eney arbushers win follow

- 20 -

2.12

---

## Page 118

matur ull an it inves fron ond icey iu to mother.

endeard niger tear with good dies incisitor clarient is

lara de motion lone monde discratica bi thin route rict miles

install soland ice off the rao: as tirey isilos in

ill edule to arguge tin enor? at ranted nut to sou meters.

At Haired trogat, tie chog will ungall; ant be crutious avout-

Is cover and congsairent. hus, le presents an execklent target

rii) riff-ret

12 a larg seron bearch linte will te used to illumi-

nate coverty ar mog with ping light. tar starlight scope is

rensicive on? urstion do the infrared band that is pink and

went the sist to light portion of tad soodtruin.

iy uring a pink

filter no: : mua carol light an area con'se illirinated with

invisinie liut that registers in the starlignt scope. this

phenorena vill up used in tin types of sniper activity: village

or pertreter ocarity and arbush operations. Crolcurent of the

ritle/seone/trensor cortination sill frepirtly result in

tianany rectirins any carualties lefore hip ins lieen taken

water fire..

so i lushe sill de conducted oh! placiny

a searc!i

lisht aignai lie tea valicle 1200 to 1500 .etari froil 1 road

interaction. nigers aquioned wit: tarlight coates and :11l-2

suppressori will inflater! 300 retora fron sia intersection anú

aintair

wallo contact ith the searchlight rporator. The sniver

= 2.1.-

2.12

---

## Page 119

meet illuminatime of tie Mitreaction net

Call 7000

:: ill

in tiptori: to merchlight on leeind the scarciligio

tire rig is tracill dont will not in alorred by the noise of

mr the runnin: volicli engine.

ce The to diat licit/saiger combination will

so alove: in case corp regurity coraticns.: tie scarchlight.

mounter an i 1l4 ton vehicle resnoris to radio erninued sniper

tones in coritinas eiter on the perineter or on arous: positions

utile ti

rineter. tie lackground mise pia village or

fixed. base cans yually concuals the noise of the engine and

activity pr'the sunrehlight crei. In forura base caras the

seurchlight ruine in the center of the case cany and, by swing-

jay its wear through 300 degrees, covertly illuminates avenues

..oe approaci, into thr position. with this metros it is again

essential that tia

snier teams raintain radio contact with the

carchlight crus. the pink light is particularly useful auring

triiark of the noon period.

(1:') .. Counter Sniper

!l/:: Fears are effective i: counteriny enchy

shirer activit;.. lach team, equipped iith its telescopic

sigut and i9 potting Scopc, will rearch the area of suspected

sniper activit:. is notical equipmont vermits a fatailed

search of distunt areas. i recent exarcle, in lictnar, is

-22-

2.12

---

## Page 120

le cal do tlind itaininor demo we bear searcher!

file motical enlime uni did clit long miper

water neiter

rind using the tat prostin; cooped the

i.

other can tire one crund, tilling the viet cong sniper.

(v)

ight cunter duerations

might lanter ragrations dill lo concucter, to

Tar!: target?.

i saiper teamof ?ren ulaced in a loni helicopter

Alier tue round mith the starlint

sennes rounted on their

ritler...

en tie energ is sighter, the snipers engage "ith

traucrs..

licopter sun ships, collo in at a nicher altitude

stillery te mill lucination are

mustan og taract as necessary.

(vi) ipecial deratin.s

the mcial aperation tear, coier-trained,

•ill te arcloted inded platoon comrandur control for coug-de-

sain, rabotags/carolirion, anú sniper activitios ayainst sie

enery as lictated sy the situation and rempirerents of the

siler! ait onuntor- terrorist plan.

.. Grase unut eperations

i amarionce is gained viti: corbinca niver

send and cost sit tan or ill operations, the soccial oferations

and munter? lies tears dill graduali! arpard orerations to

rulfill their unid roles -- that of intagendentit occrating

teams

rovin, ilantly to interdict, anash and destroy the chery

-23:

2.12

---

## Page 121

orte pad alose de distinger tirrende tondal fi or

=.'.

Mettentine nel lille se del Pallet alle11

ilo enti::

. .*

lo trienological merati2

uciriller cerations in corjunction rich

di cu bro ties esiti fro sobile trainie unica dust includo

asycholodich! o urations. There is

nomeo. itier designed to strike turror into the leart of

tio coiranist ruarorist clan to see his corrados-in-aris killed,

as doli cante, spa cilent bullet firal fror sore "unirown"

il ristant scarce, frus, tha innerent long range claribility

au ale chitasi of tre rifle/scare/ resserestinee combina-.

tim unte milleita so its fullest, tor captiuns, 'silver

allue prerrio, lesfiat erogs: aircorre loudgeaker "talling

sind ecoraticao, dad ether classic psychrlegical oberations

Lachil÷uss

unt all drum houe tia thomo tint this noiriunist terror-

int is se laner Tate in lis sanctuary array nor cois he enjo;

the lansie ursilli initiative an in rinca has truglit to believe.

gonoivelantafiller aburatione commiant with astute and

massive poichelaical rperations vill in cintoire to destrol

co:.unist torimisto cill to fight. and, rast iporcantli, to

discourage loçal indiconous tribessen iron joinin corunist ranks.

-24-

2.12

---

## Page 122

a. Phase IV - Lvaluation

The veirt Program will be subject to close and contin-

ming dalmation ly a le fost and livaluation Tean organized

and landitor be ale asupa, Coarchensive records and test data

will be gathered and inalyzed in order to amend operational con:

cepts int organizations as well as administrative, iogistical,

and traininy techniques as required. The jest and valuation Team

snould achere to accepted principles of field experimentation

as appropriate; c.g... the evaluation should be an elaboration

of cortion sense and convenient ordering of evaluation matters

so that the Hunter/killer Teams encounter mininum interruptions.

yon completion of the Evaluation Phase the TSE

Unit will make appropriate recommendations to RDC for continua-

tion and expansion of the NeTT Program beyond the 12 month

planned period.

5. Phase V - Expansion of Operations

See Figure 1.

is indicated on Figure l, preparation for the

Expansion of Uperations Phase commences in the tenth week

of the NCTTT with the organization of the Second RIG Provisional

SO 1/k Platoon. The six-week training program for the second .....

Platoon starts the 13th neex upon graduation of the Firs Platoon.

The second

Flatoon deploys. in the 18th week

and conducts Phase

III operations as described in Paragraph D. above.

commencing with the l4th week, the Third Provisional

ITG S0 N/i Pltn. is organized commencing training the 18th week,

and Phase III operations the 24th week.

-25-

2.12

---

## Page 123

it to one of Plane 11e Gork ill tils de tires

att: 111.0

will ion: cir citicas.

la) organide sie tires plateons into a rovi-

sional a l/ crapear (see jigure ol and continue furtier noera-

tions, or

(5) reassign Spocial incration. Tears to PiA.

ri, and in whits ds required and critinus furtrer overations.

Duriny tie final three contas of the jerrt progran,

murationg till in ricyressively ax;arior-to provide

for protec-

tion

of juditional reliages. Docrationa vili de centinued deep

into count critroild areas utilizimy alicopter or parachute

insertion ticiniang. ialo parachuto insortion techniques will

se angloyed in arias shese the enemy is especially vijilant.

freratines scould be carried out vichever possiile to ambush,

attach, cariacs, ds pussue the enemy as too as lo to 20 milos

innino tiedarior, af isos, providing ale permission is olitained.

= arter to accelim this, sale areas should be esticlished

wit in friendly ror other indigerous tribal villages

tor

teo: rost, recureration, and evontual extraction it holicopter

no. t aircraft. rever possible, si:ilar operations should

an conductri.

iron, to pukter horder.

'Pr

2.17

---

## Page 124

6. luture Operations

st the end of phase y the ictay should have proved

itsell as one of thie rost effective counter-insurgency programs

available to tic RIG. My an example, in 6 months operations

the 72 snipers

of the U.S: 9th Division attained over 600

confirmed hills, the majority of which were made at night with

the M-14 rifle/Starlight Scope/SIONICS-il:-A2 suppressor combin-.

ation:

In effecting this admirable record, 1.37 cartridges

were expended per kill. Ati the current cost of 284 for one

National iatch cartridge, this averages to 384 per kill. This

is obviously an oversinplification, but it highlights an extrerely

successful and economical rethod of countering connunist terrorism

along the borders of thailand.

is a final note, this type of operation is as yet

in its nascent stages.

Complete operational techniques that will

result. from execution of the 12 month NCTTT will

undoubtedly

disclose additional and more effective techniques of killing or

neutralizing communist terrorists in Thailand and will contribute

inneasurably to bringing stability and RTG control into its

border areas.

2.12

---

## Page 125

14-00000

'S

1G. CNTR..

iL. & ORG. PERS.

RAILING PROGRAM

JAGANIZE PLINS.

FISTABLISH SOP'S & LN

NIRTAF, BPPE INP

UNITS

INSERTION OF H/K TMS.

IN TAOR'S

OPSL PHASE: 11/K Be

MSYCH ONS. OPIN'S.

EVALUATION PHASE

EXPANSION PILASE

2ND PITY OKEN

2ND PLIN TING

2ND PLTS OUNS

3RD PLTA ORGN

3RD PLTA OPN'S

FIGURE, I - OPERATIONAL SCHEDULE

NCTTT

10

1 2 3 4

NCTTT PROGRAM

CONTRACT MONTHS

3. 4

• 5.

6

810.12114 16182022 24 26 28 30 32 34 36

---

## Page 126

14-00000

2.12

NCITE MIE GEIEC

_ AC1 HAWE

DIE TEICATEN

& ENGISTINII

VA: 20024

LIAISON AS

RIO WITH:

RT AYMY

RT AIK FORCE

НЇ HAVY

BIP

etc.

•SIONICS

i!r. :l. Werbell

(To be

Deslg.)

GROUP

"SCAF

(To be

MT:

Drsi..a

Ist

12018.

Siidjer Sciloo!

Sp.. 0pn9.

Instrs.

1254КиT

FIGURE. 2 - OHGNIZATIO: NI EREIGEMENT

OTHERS

Ag Reg:

isr.

154:

PICTILA:

197)

---

## Page 127

NECE PROWSSISRO SPECIAY ORERATIOES

WNTER/WKIENTO:

s;p

METT?. KIILIn

PLS

It. !""

"il.

1i0.

•! Li

Set:

liJ"

- Guitsrlch

1Jr..100/11-KI0

S1'

W'VS

"Ten"

fr.1990 - 139-

sniper/i1:m;

aarit

33 N530N/E!

li iren!

FIGiBr

N'0.

50 1/1: 1!.Tiv.

2.19

sigalii - mliud: •ai1,

1is lib

11T1:-1341"

---

## Page 128

14-00001

LIST O MAJOR TONG O MONTENS

1.

PLATE HLADQUARTERS (1 Set)

a. IEDIVIDUAL BOUIPLET

21-14 Accurized kifles

2

ART Sniper Scopes. (i-84 Scope, Alternate)

2

sionies Mill-aa Suppiessors

2

VARO Starlight Scores

2

•1-16 n/Mali-al Sup.

1

PRC-25. or [giv. Radio Irins./Recvr.

b".

PLATOON WEAPONS & EQUIPMINT POOL (1 Set).

8 Hi-16 x/ilM-Al Sup.

8

1-10: Ingram SiG w/Sionics Sup.

8

5

Pistol. (To be desig.) w/Sionics Sup.

Cases -B-40: Mir Hand Grenades

10 Cases HALPA 35mm Phosphorus Grenades

- 1000 lounds

.38, •45 or Smn Flare Bullets

Semolition. and Incendiary. Fquipment and Supplies as reguired

S0 H/% OP. 11/i TER": EQUIPMENT (4 Sets)

i1-14. accurized Rifles

9

ART Sniper Scopes

11-84 Scope, Alt.)

9

Sionics !Ai'-A2 Suppressors

VARO Starlight scopes

PRT-4 Radio Transmitter

9 PRT-9: Helmet. Radio Receivers

Demolition and Incendiary Supplies and Equipment as required

FIGURE. 4 - EQUIPMENT

2.18

---

## Page 129

14-011000

2.12

ARLA

NCTTT

TACTICAL AREA OF OPERATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY

(TAOR)

TYPICAL. I/K TLA ARFA DEPIOYMENT

1.109

ITA OI

11'1 1111

M/!:

Vile!

• 1.8

Flour.

---

## Page 130

14-00000

RIC PROVISIONAL SPECIAL OPERATIONS HUNTER KILLER COMPANY

dl..

SP OPNS

HIWTER KILLER

co.

1

Cape. Co.. Codr.

LE:

19t

SeC.

ST.

NCO/EM-RTO

SPEC. ORN$

HUNTER KILLER

STRENGTH

5.

19

"iCO

Jr. NCO/EM

124 Total

PIGURE 6 -STO PROV. 50 MIK COMPANY

2.1d

---

## Page 131

PAKTI: Planning. b'reporation, and Training Phaser

LINLAND COSE ESTIMATE

months

PEKFOKMANCE DURIG PERIOD: Phase!: Planning, Preparation

and incialtarion cl Tradig

Center, through

Phase 1l: Urganization and Training

ESTIMATE OF PROJECT COSTS

Salarios (direct charges at actual rate):

Program Director, Senior Technical Advisor level:

rrian-mos. @$

cav. per man-mo.

Assistant Director, Technical Advisor, or Engineer level:

_mian mos. @5:___av. per man-mo.

Gunsmith, Armorer, or Technician level;

man-mos.

av. per man-mo.

Total billable salaries:

Salary related costs (Employee insurance, Overseas pay

incentives, sick leaves, etc.

Estimaied at

Overtime premium pay

Estimated at .

Office and Secretarial:

Purchased expendable materials and services:

Travel:

Long-distance communication charges:

TOTAL ESTIMATED COSTS

FIXED FEF. (77)

TOTAL: Estimated Costs and Fixed Fee

ARMAMENT AND EQUIPMENT

To be negotiated a: a later date depending on availabilitỳ

of aris and equipment through Thai or U.S. Government

official cliannels.

Totalg

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

2.12

---

## Page 132

PAl: Hl: Operational ond Frantion. Phase

MAL AND CUST LESTINATE

initiation ui Operalions, through

Pliase I: livaluation of Prograin

ESTIMATE OF PROJECI COSTS

Salaries (direca charges at actual rates):

Prograin Direitor, Senior Technical Advisor level:

man-inos. @5

avi per man-mo:

Assistan Direcios, Technical Advisor, or Engineer level:

man-mos. d$

ar. per man-mo.

Gunsmill, Armorer,

or Technician level:

mar -11109.

av. per mail-mu.

Toral billable salaries:

Totals

Salify relaied costs (Limployee insurance, Overseas pay

incentives, sick leaves, etc.

Estimared ar -

Overtime prenuin pay

Estimaled al _

Office and Secretarial:

Purchased expendable materials and services:

Travel:

Long-distance communication charges:

TOTAL ESTIMATED COSTS.

FIXED FEE (791)

TOTAL: Estimated Costs and Fixed Fee

ARNAMENT AND ECUIPMENT®

To be regotialed al a later date depending on availability .

oi arms and equipment through Thai or Ü.S. Governinent

official channels.

2.12

---

## Page 133

TIME AND COSLESTIMALY

PERFORMANCE: DURING PERIOD: 1hase V: Fixpansion ul Operationg

ESTIMATE ON PROJECI COSTS

satorios fairect charges it aciual sales):

Program Director, Senior Technical Advisor level:

man-mos. US

av.

per man-ino.

Assistant Director, Technical Advisor, or Engineer level:

man-mos.d

ar. per man-mo:

Gunsmith, Armorer, or Technical level:

inan-mos.@$

_ av: per man-no.

Total billable salaries:

Salary related costs (Employee insurance, Overseas. pay

incentives, sick leaves, etc. Estimated at

Overtime premium pay

Estimated at

Office and Secretarial:

Purchased expendable matefials and services:

Travel:

Long-distance communication charges:

TOTAL ESTIMATED COSTS

FIXED FEE (7%)

TOTAL: Estimated Costs and Fixed Fee

ARMAMENT AND EQUIPMENT

To be negotiated at a later. date depending on availability

of arms and equipment through Thai or U.S. Government

official channels.

Totals

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

tA

2.12

---

## Page 134

4-00000

To:::415-511887

TOTAL LUNES.

ORIO:

:Aml

UMIT:

ART:

FE/TBL/T

1421

DATE:

3 MAY 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMIMATION

•BY

30

COME:

KEY

SECRET.

OIx018

nO INDEE

- BARN

Done are

File. va.

RIAN FZ CI CILORS

(claditic elion)

SECRET

- BANGKOK

PBRAMPART

73 15 132 Ha 65

CITE DIRECT 9 3 8 04

7

REF

DIRECTOR 88114

1. WE NOTE LNSHOE QUERY DATED 2 MAY TO ITS HQS

ASKING FOR TRACES ON MITCHELL L. WERBELL. WISH TO BRING

TO YOUR ATTENTION REF WHICH REPLIED TO RECENT STATIO

REQUEST FOR TRACES ON WERBELL. SUGGEST YOU MAY /WISH RASS.

GIST OF REF ON FYI BASIS TO LOCAL LNSHOE REPS.

2. REX FILE: 201-259910.

END OF MESSAdE

ACTE

COORD

CI/OPS/FF. (Telecord)

RELEASINO OFFICIA

crime shamri

ES COPY

2.11

COOFDIMATINO DES:CENS

301-559910

30447

AUTHeNTICATINO

OP PICLE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

cum so.

7

---

## Page 135

Dept. of Dofense

(Natural.Military Command Genter

Message Center.)

989.52

2. May 6.7 (6 May 69)

Subject: Request for Information

Action: Dif-20

---

## Page 136

/dsr

N1Q:

MIT:.

ST:

FE/TBL/T

1421

27 March 1969

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

143/53

PER

MESSAGE FORGA

TOTAL COPIES: 23

B/SECRET

Діночі по мовх

/ Rí/5D, C/FI2,

ROUTING AND/OR IA

-SE!

BY

RECES OFTER STAY?

_--

Pund can

R.O. $276.-

Note:

If destructioL

cite

reagons and los dire

(e binatitcation)

SECRET

F BANGKOR

12.2

lisa 59

7

REF:

BANGKOK

I (IN 16820)

ASSERACT

1. HQS HAS LENGTHY 201 FILE ON SUBJECT REF WHO HAS LONG

HISTORY OF POPPING UP IN AREAS AND SITUATIONS WHERE HE CAN MAKE A

FEW FAST BUCKS. HE IS CHARACTERIZED AS UNSCRUPULOUS, A WHEELER

AND DEALER, AND A PROMOTER OF GRANDIOSE SCHESES. HE HAS A REPU-

TATION FOR LIVING BEYOND HIS MEANS AND IS HIGH PRESSURE ADVERTISING

AND PROMOTION MAN. HE WAS OF OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN MID 1959

WHEN HE BECAME INVOLVED WITH ANTI-CASTRO PLOTTERS IN THE DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC AND OFFERED TO FURNISH WOFIRM WITH INFORMATION ON REVO

• LUTIONARY ACTIVITIES IN THE CARRIBEAN, HE WAS GRANTED A POA IN

AUGUST 1959 BUT THIS WAS CANCELIED IN OCTOBER 1959 WHEN HIS

INFORMATION PROVED TO BE OF LITTLE VALUE AND IT WAS SUSPECTED

THAT HE WAS USING HOFIRM FUNDS TO PROMOTE PERSONAL INTERESTS.

HE HAS SUBSEQUENTLY ATTEMPTED TO PASS HINSELF OFF AS REPRESENTATIVE

OF LNHARD AND NOFIRM. HE WAS BORN 1918 IN PHILADELPHIA AND DID

CS COP! / CONTINUED/

RILLISING ORDICIA

COOCOIMATIMO ORNICIRS

SECRET

aron

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AVIMINTICATINO

1901-259410

---

## Page 137

R1O:

MIT:

IT:

ATE:

ABLE SECRETARIAT. OlABERINATION

_PER

OMF:

MESSAGE FOXA

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTING ANDIA IN

• ко тноак

_. - BRANCH

Jore nin

• MIs iN свіня 70.

FILE

1011091

SECRET

•poete and since Pilad)

PAGE THO

trotoraria

CITE DiRECTOR 8.8114

"SERVE WITH OSS DURING WORLD WAR IT, HE HAD OWN ADVERTISING AND

PUBLIC RELATIONS BUSINESS IN ATLANTA, GEORGIA WHICH WENT BANKRUPT

IN 1959. TRACES ON HIS CURRENT FIRM NEGATIVE.

2H. ABOVE CANNOT BE PASSED TO THAIS SINCE SUBJECT REF IS

WOLADY CITIZEN, HOWEVER YOU MAY WISH TO INFORM APPROPRIATE LIAISON

CONTACTS THAT SUBJECT IS REPUTED TO HAVE UNSAVORY REPUTATION,

HAS NO CONNECTIONS WITH LNHARP DESPITE ANY INTIMATIONS HE MAY

MAKE TO CONTRARY, AND THAT THAIS WOULD BE WELL ADVISED TO OBSERVE

EXTREVE CAUTION RE ANY DEALINGS WITH HIM.

3.

FILE: 201-259910

END OF MESSAGE

-CI/OPS/FE

TutE

111

Cition a Strathern

Strathern

CFE/TBL

DIN &3ST0

MIRASINO OORICER

COORDIMATIMO OSTICIAS

SECRET

REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRUHIBITED

Autois ease arioro

---

## Page 138

"ETARIAS DISSEMINAT.UN

ADVANCECOR

Mr:.

AT:.

SSIFIRU MESSAGE

•TOTAL COPIES

-SECRET

150 мо 12

¡ä'son filled la!

REPRODUEFCR OF THIS COPY PROMiBIRD

CLASSURI TO MLE NOW

х-тке то тае но. :

"LiTING AND/OR INTALS: SEEN BY

orsreorD8.0.

5606

SECRET 181107Z MAR 6O CiTE EATSKOK

Te HA: 69 IN 1 6820

DIRECTOR

REQUEST HOS TRACES ON MITCELL L. WERBELL III AVD HIS

FIRM SIONICS, 1655 PEACH TREE ST., V.E., ATLANTA, GEORGIA.

WERSELL IS HERE OFFERING TO SELL THE LATEST FIREARIS TO RIG...

HE HAS PRESENTED SOME OF THESE LEAPOTSTO THE KING.

SECRET

1 8 MAR 1259

Chief

D'CL

1. _

2. -

.. 3. =

4. --

S.

isi Chrano

i... ad

KATE: 21 K3018

SECRET

---

## Page 139

LE UNCLASSIFIED

Us.

ONLY

CONFI__Ni. Al

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SURECT: (Optionall

FROMI:

Employee Activity Branch

3 E 49, Hagtrs.

10: ¡Officer designation, rooms number,

building)

and

DATE

DITENSON

7720

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEINTO

I PORWANDED

на

DATE

26 Mạrch 1963

iach comment to shor tom oh

wa/Security

3 D 3113

For your information.

AR on Baker in

25 files.

s. atte

6.

7.

8.

Ri/AN

Ri

1601

#:00.5

F1/FILES

131954

5:7

inde please

10.

5-9 please

file 301-259910

12.

13.

14

13.

5-02

AB

610 ROOS

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

1701-259916

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 140

CONFIDENTIAL

TO

UNITED STATES GOVERÜMENT

Memorandum

Schies, 08/pD-4 h1r

DATE: 4 March 1968

'FROM : L. Lo CUiFAR

XAAZ 28107

SUBJECT: BAKER, Bruce Arman

OuT February, this Bentjeman telephoned ar ofrice.

His address is:

Mr. Bruce Armian BAKER ME

11379 President Drive, N. E.

A U.S.A

CIT: U.S. A

Blaine Village, Minnesota

Mr. Baker stated that he has been in contact with a Mr. MITCHETI 201-258.940

• WERBELL, MI of Powder Springs, Ceorgia.

Baker says that Mr. Werbell is-in the business of manufarturing

weapons and

delivering them by air throughout the world.

understands that Mr. Werbell does this for the Central Intelligence

Agency.

Mr. Baker says that Mr. Werbcll is a supposedly reputable man.

Baker understands,

from Werbell, that Baker will have to get a

CIA security clearance to fly for Herbell.

Mi. Baker has served in the mill club" and now participates in

He has had some paramilitary

training.

He belongs

'"freefall"

., etc.

He has a Morse Code proficiency and a Radio

License

Second Class.

He has Spanish language proficiency and would

be willing to collect for us.

This man persists on pursuing me re this CIA/Werbell relationship.

I tell him I don't know a thing about it.

It seems he has a smuggling

record when he was 17 and he's afraid this may keep him from getting

this Werbell "CIA"

clearance.

L. L. Cur

MICHOFILMED

DOC. MICRO.

O1959

SER.

LLC : sb

Biker ref his

Contact

the is

201.257910

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on sbe Pagroll Savings Plan

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 141

dien il crivell is conger

un dhle lo sipply

monons des elcher sicle-

ur both. Anal de's

my one of seterel

high flying sperators in

•ne rank and groning traule

157r

00.6623601

Nensfront

60..4161

111.50

rose oof lineries high rankron

odiciala

corricad cos addatee scarning af the vit.

"Hlineric

iors. But at torri one dicerican anthorits

He io ie ruolly.

coralia

Mitobell Lirinsion

disterra

elege die 25 mile- do Atlanta

irport in io minster and bearlos a jot for

in Germany.

"l.:r1t-.18

latelo certata ile

a chandtourriron

Maintr

sorting tocariadre entil

1200260002

noi erino deis. dodo dedoter deid en pale, egge pieter.

---

## Page 142

14-00000

Misch tortell and deu nides lool deer route on map prior con nigh

ery of icapons someche, e in the Caribbenn

l'ad nicher darioloen miccine, aieril deund la costrend alone 501

42

in the East River, Werlell finally opened

his valise and displayed its contents: a

halfdloei missile gans, both hind und

«houlder scagons, which fre a small, sels.

guided rocket inclead of the consentimal

balled. Werlell lad designed and buile

sone of them himaulf.

Around him, eroeing the yacht's state.

room, solid look ing, consher nen natched

intently as Werbell demonstrated the nes

firearms assecome potential Fater tit

esching, recalling the demon-trinion over

i drink back in lee cily, Werbell nould

descrile his nautical hoats only by saying,

Tley were e.. let's just call them very

importat friends of larael. Theyil been

Mitrined that within dass the Micened sould

De at sar. Thry sere there lo mike sure

thit one say de mother Ierael got a crack

il the sery beet weaponry there is. Not just

for due campatigo dead, but fore the land.

olf which is bound to keep the Middle Fa

under tra io for voirs."

Clande dine mectings like this are part

of Mirch Nerbell': stock in trade. He is a

tirars broker of the per lered tanossi

as MM.-manition: manipolators. In d

world of logliaed wars--from Yemen 1o

TRUE THE MITS MAGAZIE

---

## Page 143

Arms brokers ure

rions Aland of ge drud present. ree torell dacing osa ressia nile, des With rocker geol

Angola lo Bolivia-M.M.'s are the nes

r.i.P.s of interiational polities. li is their

business to inoss even before diplomato do

-shere tensions are bressing that bring po.

tentict erroners.

Their most satistying

status orabel is the discovery that sonie

shere on the globe their mercandice is

scottg away, back and lorth, on leth

sides of the come conflict.

Ileading conth fram Miami, one's first

look at tho Bahamas rehooners and con-

retico sul dasers plowing thie blue water

mith eargoes of armas trom-uch dealers, de-

calls nothing do mact as the rom-cunnos

buon of Probibition peare. But a diligent

adent coon discorere that aleolio!

suid

mercate have lile la cormon; the

mattinos business de de vase, mortolile

trade ideereing ilio detimo of govern.

meal matons, poticad parties —ind tho

Tado de rain cesassination ailonipt

caciact danto Domingo's military slrong

maa. Cono Autmio Antert. Priving loine-

viiver atars

135130

Lia Mie 120208"

$3

2.5

---

## Page 144

sir ques, nose de anderstood peddled de too died ind

don die tended gordied ise foored ill

In lin:

r;".

cordle mood tite arsedo theme to do 10111011.

e lad creso see, in. the ice in sire

tried ding.

Trig

loses def

call serling; on the poities.

Name tappened mode is dirt lopictio

made any dirse do alare the cooles adolindles

enougle dise same

process.

The tornin

of the casel boloedo chareed faster dlou1e

the sides. Then, iskile the coast dese still

waltergred

lur is sloore line by an ice-chroked Mount

liver. The nice of saler sept lony. the

thered enore sial and solen the wirder saris.

Minnie motels.

lu dens where tie murning seer hinel

rusercel elsema for only a short time, eve

mounds jeer lege. Share the dates Mowedd

longer. mise thawing rook place and the

mound's here shall.

•l very sarisfying thcory. But as lisual.

wiher scientises have pickrol Ravis in it.

for cue thing. they question if the arca

had the mend of climate which Kichie ile-

Mrileo. Thes sas it so not much coldler

suing the monterning prete thin

it is tralas. Ned shes done it the prairies

were sepe log a bloud of water deep

enough see cover all the monnds. It would

Done lial to lee ner 100 feet clerge.

Soine of the cries are gopher thror!

around for 10 years. gaining sepporters

decolly. It

here been made by gophers they

mall due the irre eatingslines

ridire.

and animal ete put ison.

The coolies

le lie incline de dealed ad the meetserio

el menden Mortimer, He bree dered.

god then thered willi

fireor Shelier.

dialogie will die Carted Sales Diale oned

Millile Service.

No clad joint ood, shredge there are

there int

i rose time olsere sere gogoliero don Minia

The goplier they the bulking reins is

crore it has in

for lised pocket in ils

check for carrying around food id drese

mata ial.

This is the wire die binderisis explain

lachon ice

dred serened und degeration greed up ito

ins male: prochee gogress legone mosing

in freen the worth, gobably oil!

rancing a linnered fees or so in a goplier

generation. Finally de she southere end

al luger: Sound, thiey rile into in 101s

young excogueen forese whiele hind young

up theid of them.

ringlers will ared lise in the shredle of

a forest no instead of procling on fasthier.,

ales due in on the prancies. do i pio-

ration against predatoes this dog ileep.

Lach Mime enound reprerests sillise ise

one time sin the "seritory" of an incient

gopher formily:

then they buile elveir o

longing nunnel ties lege on dengging in

lite nore soil led lossel the linte sire

sends of years.-@infinitesimal amound

al soil mould less e lecile ap inco a Mine

110t1nl.

The materions mound 10aes

stilla cried into die gruesed in lapid thie

stried inne patiend life is idle brined mile.

"I've

-til

Nim.

1.lic

mount soots" cypotents did thes theory.

pains sue. Alieg asper ether delands, inn.

lo one geologise apole.

•orth. more the le dott".

die frogs are see 3h incies in dinneter

inde their lrrne."

And lok anill ally

sopher broc in .

•erne the sire of de lemohall

W'hoe alie nerd threesy sill loo is isny.

bral's geese, lone ale altimore arisele of

confusion lies alor adly been soderd, There

geesing. Nor is this in new iler. Over 30

deans ago. Pomers in the aree sealerd

telling ibrone is.

"Sure cheere gening.

Phen lias a bid cler were level millo thie

lop of the chirkien

The growing deusy cantos be parrel

of with a henry chuckle citlier.

SonK

lenn obververs hine been taking the idca

seriously--Doctor

Shefler...for

durglo nobinly can prose. reicmifeally

wacther they doe growing, shrinking or

maging the same. luface, guly one thing.

i sine shout the whole Sline henle. If

something is mie elone soon, there will

ne he mans Alimo moundle dele do puter

ser..derrif their have been leveled.fo

Can ruing.

still others hase heir dug up

for gravel pits id cue through for lugh.

wards and railinado. Noe that the coner-

ration-minded

Sinte

of

Washingons

srael ever let them disappear cuturely.

1 good thing, lon.

leave if shove muss.

lery mound reilly are growing. we ire

going so have more paires do gapple

wich.. like where on carah is making shem

gon bigger: did where, lay all that is

sane, are they going in cal: -Jean Mir.

THE DEADLINST SALESMEN

Kamiated foon fage -131

he heel the surer of silencer exquippest

clan hime guns, he liners the is iong.

wid liking

price-

irrapt see deciong misde no kill him.

l'o curt the assemind bullets, the son.

crad creppeel sideways, His inm

winked

belind ole: frome see of the limon inc

elete dis conse salomachine gone bang ins.

dillerend ee whollo unespected me of

101192018.

Miring Carin

Mirkeel

e spring lendeed mired mu thie

sih-ridely comested into de mini.

speed in caliber sorter projectile.

With

chilling "st: 12casdd tre small missile

Fend die mose presented hangont Bart in

existence

liens aport the

relations

with

i munber

latin strong men. and thie pondly Domina.

•na marlond lo been tri caprecially close

friend Grad in was bertell alie donel in.

•vended and dedinered die shooring sick

1h1.at

appened!!

sancel the

sition.

Moener.

Pertell diesered. Com i

derailed alcorciprice do the issassins gleas.

in lue die drand peasseed and to dire Dosmiatic.on

intil lores one yearlier.

1o relation to tice doel machinside and-

ditions role the requipmom supplies ly

ole prise deniers do i diop in thie arre

tie world? meech. in intanitions do col.

Herbell

fer the.

Bridegoing portion

ut tles rest business.

"Til intered

• pain.de came clip

mento into the under dare doped liorld

leo been sensationind."

wrote. milis.ng

write ford demeal of Tie der

oil times to tend. "So Menile dir thie

sume on of gavin territ, top sleiler.

were killer in Viet Nina. During die sunc

neck in latin america, where unde.

clared guerrilla warfire rages in halfa.

dura countries, the death doll ots neir

"un.

These guerrilla conflicts are no longer

sigest wirl lessling pieces and crie

loliates. "Thie grierrillas ine is sell ermes

do die gosermeen rioops." the US. Gen.

til Intelligener

Agency

reretel re-

"Ofech, the guerrillas

1C3129118

re mone modern. On they lie tou-

sanels of connels in ch ersonnder."

Tie regular aronics, in leiid, are giel-

merrichning memority in

Marl prescal, they dee terring to ion.

Minion:

Regent lie

•lil let

made te lorenst

que does ed else controle sicle gre des ill.

Meal 1. Ale was delibered

1A:0KNX 1969

Cine word lad. M9a1ehe, 2901 Minericiario.

1or: 09 brielle from do Mark Son 11

pedo. die signitions leites leggile in

leno controlled more at de. true called

Tireranes, dor evaripic. lad bernme a

1938.

front ilord it

tons softens

posite do coopera mice Meteranco.

hi mile to cooper de lilo de.

i lored

73

.2

---

## Page 145

•Xi.

encoden co do die 88.0. eir die 0018

.:".

"This is eling, but when are you going to teach me to chiic winnen?"

did! an ocal little parolicied

thing: is suddenlo revokert licenes 1o es

just

munitions 1o the Cuban govern.

ment of lecent Barista.

reameral Batista Rudd boog been one of

Machingson's favorire cliems. lint Cute

'Ilie

Srine Reparinent hal decided as a pol.

iriend grome to cocail thie dos of arms

1 hion. Do 1iir tie coliciad CS. line ou

selling firemo bad become congrrely

canlurnt.

An eld frirned could be sel

denly denied a percep maritions ship.

me08. 1n nucle d0t01i in.

say. the

Middle Eas, wold be suddenly imite

In bid on one conced lordware.

"The

h.am-

amung leg the grade ileparent's varil.

larions, independen ordance salemen

mosest into the rectern. Less trouldred los

reel tigre and clay toiled police elunges.

they were prepared to

deliver gone!

mitils.

micke etrirls.nnt

pintotype

stereoint

itorehrant

mannitiotis

m.4pul..tor.

or linkerces.

Mitch Merlicil was sill a

Sun hobbie. who planeel and shipped

mopped benire for it lising when he de.

cloperlin his dome workdiop-slier is

godliy considered thie

finest muddle si.

taker me the incernational maker.

sure political insince and deplomatic

skill are exontind in the secessful ma-

nipalation of munirioris.

Press MeNing'sion:

sion of Can:

da's mod dinguiced mititary dynasy

and a lommer

K.IF

"quadron

rivited items dealer.

explainer:

"The

tells who got somehose in this lousi.

rigit.

Hie big comporatons had grosin

Pen to deding side goreraments, bat

de independemo ilo ivere a lot smaller

it is conier to deal with goerent

Someone, ens. hint a nice onder fut

machine gone. lott jerhaps a groop

• Readish Morali

lighters to cany

their Man hoodlotlar till soiled as thick

akral in the

Kinner inf the

kiritish

alicero meso, arogered leg the solole inter.

national trean Mentoroity.

oder Com, sage an ens firm in Menbug

in all the outer: Moot machine guns,

tige drone the edicially

bedral arcade with is Derrogerrel seg

i:mes,

1angari.rn fren

Huge toils

wiles.

man, What Throne eill in moing later

documento is belicace do lee empireil

the Conrittemn.nl

responder, in. rain ef a landed peror.

1109119.

17:h

White some lo dine do teleralder or

militar decelerant.

or el lee Ceterang nod around do

leona Willinton.

Pilge berniere chari

This irer!

moan tire jolicies diends. 1

∞?.0!0.

l tend to Minding

of laration do turnogo to gile codicelors

Pale sore pritant li do got med dire

or in.!.

71

to finitiat

un line

it to aere corales this seag: 60900:199

then you dira toole

a bit moise loas."

lido urine jo to le petites on siricle move

Triated, but never com

"Freedome

me change alie.

Thes have many slee

quel gonerase are lot of the big cos.

prorationo lad Prateed do line wich thar.

line the saall indeperdlenes appreciarel

mething cle-cut big poirers lore co

hare many simalancoses goveronerre

Mers grinned a huge.

white, trimun

phan grin

"le's ibe come fact ard l'ore.

Think not: Russia? Eaglual?

france:

No dillerence. my friend. Remember las

year the More gorerment well to

ile French foreign Olfce tring lo er.

tradise one of their coiler Ben Barki?

lis: Aind the French Foreign Olice snidl.

•Son. non; our traditions of political

asplum... the mired licerom of choir

..and pilars. and Pilate so the Morix.

cuts went to ike insible gorerurime, 1o

french Incligence.

And they made a

little deal. And trench Intelligence. jus

siel, 'Hois dune sant. this Ben Barka

delivered, bigged or grated?' Ele do dil.

Science, my hicmd.-

le is a fair, dared bey governmentl in

sides monid the world, that great power

politics here ta a revirgence ul oid

fashionest Machine Minnisin.

Tilic

the

cuious case of Jolia Kickard Maske, 21

i branded Britisher Gom Cormall visi

her right bears in the K.OF. his dna:

mam Made fay 225 L22

pretend-bricter

planes an!!

speciality.

one dog carly lise gear. Dugenie .ln.

did representative

in the

d'nice dariens

iride in the Cornel

dorinblo, Slo seemal do be promising

hail

địn:

"appeared s

ravines

not see been comical el anything. te

still hasn't breen.

But the bin!grun!

ef the mantry illuentates thie workings!

nin fern munition: deatings.

111e.

21110.

some ground piage planes for irs forcer

in lugali and

Mediatique.

hired ty

buy 20 lad Moader Connhers.

State: Departisants dression die di

prettine.

pirate

not be

Mars

Americ:

"is.

Sure pola

3n am

'ilicien

Carnia?

in con

more taros lily digiond tre!

Ind in

ir..

10.218

hc

1n

¡no reis made for drierent li

Tire tore dad inched over timer

list ellies.

Then wes precited to thirinac

Picard drierre, minted ile 1..

"there'

1:31

i cards arist

TRUE TRE KRiS MAO.

-1!:

::T: 1393

2.1

---

## Page 146

1400116991110

marittimierdote. dei e pilot

fone lidee da clair modes floride

ciril

1.1s.dl1y

i Margrimo linese

ili:.:

:il in loro chiato cler mando Cere sotto

1. tilion:

Viet

'patite

Mit lire atore lie

ma mat bal the Cronte de Benament, nep.

martoga Side Meritios Com.

he rigrantes.

le the anteriore leincis,

thie'

le'e.

the;

folating.

detries

biscutele

divides

Tre lor.

fistor

retoritly in

Mimi. erethuler, le spertion of cores.

alos in sothr

mills.

Cone dis

linke

mio araceee and alangeed with riddaring

ilie

U:S.

Munitosis

lunutrers

.let

lesporting

without

nien State Depart.

ales approval.

Ai die miali thie

1a108-

erineel that the

finited Stes goicin-

"NI

Sone contenty.

lit, non tre au civier sale."

lie colie

e hirad, "Thieg mine shar-

•"!?

• can ge: for Chiera. lare wille gos.

ertreme you lore an cover dlelirery."

Nins

quito Convi

contene tline string busines,

nuta drus

hungr!

banane regimes domanila rither

large curiery of gerial obiflo.

The first

remaned Minkei Highes. The piler hind

ti:ne

with a sers mise lie of sconthand miti.

e lone defenster: Eclin Muget. a Mirmi

lary merchandise.

" Mr.Vanghon recalled.

larger pilor, sho les been descloping

munitions lai into-a preidles.

"Illierghe it would le a cingole sales oleiad.

penseil dire liS. intelligence dil live

Mingerlin. in lond:

Il ne alleriurg tirse rage sud ill leir.

gui:e prices"

Melanglon

coolinel

Mentogal.

"Belgian corami gaeleree hune gionades

lerging his thind men. Hurle lad

•Do the handreid al sliäs cieli:

sua poliis

duso in a pei cup fog over Wishing.

Girando wirl moore eligo de gal: luglioh

ena ino blusselereed ressess il

le wer che White House, 'lue licaleral

Ariation deencr

mulined up an urgcm

order co land. Mlen 1rsde put che 19.26

don al bastingron Sarioni Airport,

hic

18.7s

insetteet

eud questione.

Hiy

using che code sorel "Sparents," Hide

wee clearnee in continue his Highn, fur

Marke's nerese, diress

ilic

incident aver orcinter.

Che meiginel F.D.d espost est che incident

lirl musererionale santaled.

lile

Minger

Gnally managed to cone dig

with a copy

dlerte in for the same plome. il piovest

Die langers point suliciently

1a1 ing

n cont t

the jury recliced some ollicial hasky.

esprimerd.

not he miale chie goit."

115'r.

honeyer.

apperiates • thie

"Drop in mind," hie

ils.

nign anticoloni.clice. le an international

conferesir. dire: prisseigles pacitior.

alle le isterune, deo proterior of in clonies

stume congres.

witile:

little-tornit

le:

il,e:

pronteres.

mignereitt

Terrent.

Tre il.

Cinitneil. it

tentato caria pe Deratta

tirl

te test.

l'este dire.

1.11t

sire

Non tries.

Metangion.

irone an ilicaile.

buit

lie

1e. the troger el respone prinle.

Mc.

met importane soles gimins. for cach

icia. alere dillerene priere mess le lisieel.

One is the rament minker price of thie

itern in question.

mand-nci.

retail:

for

an ild sille dis iniglit loe sloi. Tire sic

el price shose the anciane for which

le weapen hart breen purchaudd: in che

case of an 11-0 rille, alterest as supolas tos

i borctoinrit

astricle hel boraghe it in

1919 nel sarebonnee in eres sinee. live

• 560). The curet Goure is the real sile

in stregolere irema- in shie cuse of the sarm

rille, this del sales peico miche le 550

le clos che dead, ame sun conclude

• hy maling spe ture hillo of vile. arid Nic

erale aulicore The deon bill of arle

TALA

bercial Teled the tral Giois

14? 1111066. o 911110010114199

fredd de Pilate del

Minit med days.

MARINY 1963

75

---

## Page 147

Hi in thie

mrie thing

Did total la

May lo bin. Delivers

nil! dege:al

realithis ind

Dilier

longsine

liare nint

Automatic

favorites

Rite

are

(from

ilx

Ning

$19 10 5160): the Enfeld.0n. poja

cal.

15100 to S1009. and the Damm. 10um1

Pers tille, which till coiert ee lench into

alanhup it clor tree arol in the jungle

¿m madr a guerrilla placen's hispower

open regimend dicers (lions S1.12a

5.1. truly :

Mobile percomals are ilse

lice bromiser.

the Staghound'armond

car aad! the 1:28 jet triker.

hunt to gee weapo

by political

ise in greatese dle

•e grenale

fire's

ell or burneka corker

There is grend is.

title rule tike

irred in the

Hisier.10950181919

1.1-100 die. li

alite. as the the fam

is knees.

teal

jire

made mad does tell at mislight

tapers.

i in time

If crit lily

rated torto in lo

leslergin treesosce

side mille colleg.

immingo, That do peere erected encha

lies riote.

brittant.

Celoana solen sino

daried in the l'miteri

Mates gol grounded on the Bread of his

iRt

in the Spanine rivil lins. Ile

our not the bongood aid exace dood dire borer.

life of con internationel Coman.

Mter

1'r 11. Mailereer donng

cutle magede ain oscr

lord if die Camilleans Disrse giring of

of elic.

elo of maunitione maripula

o'liciallo

ire

11111V

clerything

bonds in a 1025 boorsleer.

fur sliis

Molester in inciting

1irl in the Mimi

11:1e

X0re1n:n01

al rue erin ice dire one similer alenge's.

set thie

131118--

capons Since the diocean Mar. at lied

here back indedlered.

thie

post-air

dottie in

firs

lice le recorde al probate. Cine ad the dis

feignori.

1110N.

niel

4515

wa•1.

Kindese

aiming rationg

Wiress dig.do.

which

sie's

place. Devils

cohen diding in a 1us

Kigle nos Afrien, aliere live buller.

preferal conter, in the monit femile prio.

with a linge muroser in larithure

colume is

front cousirg

continene miesence ugly and dirmaned

sual distic sheen

The mirery of such freins Iron

lucase to bring line can lee tomasicalls

Parilang.

Mantion reix lode gear. The etricold bois

made. in Mintorol coning World War 11

and noser end die Soonier fronte. In the lic

monies, it was wold ine d ind los and hirer.

men agent in eocenge for vome cir

crapped in liaris, in

was taken

returned to to Colone do he princel her.f

singeiro

Hool landrake consigned

mate a second

1.01.al99

gene of die grriso

M. meac eching for it in Punis.

lord it let recededo agains, do Bananas.

and there one:le see die limited Seides, in

diploid carialis deeritest

senated thr

it

its

"Ile

"in then

but something Beat biong

sottin the die

cue in sonico domingo, do 191i5 in 16i1s

lorenegle bad in diame in a rescrien

converted sochor Road do ele Perora.

later the crate tree, it Mie arguired loy

Mileted.

he is thinned trangloned not

matic to indo that mate the lordler.

gate deemed, the damid:

hie orche is fines to i leil! closely 1o.l10-1.1g

recide did line dried reard moddedid it.

Mad Meet dread age lie todd

i trited tired did molin divi

tilde needs, do thine too bere

ping on oil isole

---

## Page 148

14-00000

FBI documint datid

limage?

re:

Wer Bell, Pritckel -

Haiti :

---

## Page 149

FBI documert datect.

2 May 1967 from New York

re: Ralph Lauro Serraro

---

## Page 150

1-00000

FBi document dateil.

12 June 1967 from New York

re: Chet Gray

---

## Page 151

FBI document dated

I JAN 67

re: Wer Bell, Mitchell Livingston, II.

---

