Tod-f00se"10208 © (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PROJECT: LIENWOY CASE OFFICER: hats and (+ (Az
3 ard C. CURTIS

| :
i

STATION: Mexico City

ww a clare (ol

1
i Willard C, CURTIS
i

Aa an
aa Doty

chy lt nme “Agrygl

Po 6-6-7,
OF ATT4/E Po05 cs Z Sh; ve

02717



14-00000

PROJECT LIENVOY RENEWAL

A. CURRENT OBJECTIVES 2d
The LIENVOY Project proyides for a(joiut KUBARK-Mexican Government sponsored)

telephone tap unit and for(a non-official, liaison relationship with access to24

the highest ranking governmént officials of Mexico) The tap unit provides

@irect support necessary to cover targets and operational programs levied on the

Mexico Station via the RMD as well es spot requests from Headquarters and other

Stations. This Project also produces positive intelligence,

B. CHANG! H
(1) Operstional Mechanism A
A Tue LIEWOY Project vas? created in late(195! put into operation in
early (1959) at the request of 1B) who appointed ANT as his special 0/424
assistent\to work with Willard C. CURTIS in the supervision and administration of
the projéct, In mid~1964 it became evident that would replace LITENSOR)iné¥
ember 1964, (LIRAMA was then LITEMPO-2 and a Clandestine liaison contact
Willard C, CURTIS under the LITEMPO Project but was not kmowledgeable of the eq
"I8/LIELEGANT/LITENSOR relationship in Project LIENVOY.) On 10 August 1964
ONO (LITEMPO-2))asked CURTIS and GIELECAND for a conference (reported to Head-
quarters in MEXT. dated 10 August 1964). “Vat this meeting, advised that
ol (ETTENSOR had briefed him on the LIENVOY Project in detail end that it should be >}
‘continued with the same personnel and manner of operation.”! GTELEGAND) and x-2)

ave been given nominal positions which provide cover for deily reports to i
3{\Government: credentials)are also being provided for Staff Agent Arnold F. AREHART
‘and the local agents working in the LP.°!@TRAMA)has requested that the LP remain
in its present location and has provided a@redential?for the inside of the front
doorway which prohibits entry to anyone(without special permission obtained from 24
his office) :
i

(2) Agents

i

During the last project year there have been no changes in the agent
personnel. For the information of reviewing officials there is enclosed’es
Attachment-1, a chart listing current LIENVOY targets as well es functions of
LIENVOY agents, Arnold F, AREHART, Staff Agent, has been responsible for mainten-
ance of the technical equipment for the past five years. His work continues to
be outstanding end accounts for the fact thet efter almost six years' use, the
equipment is in good working order and has sustained a minimm of loss through
negligent breakage or theft (both very common in Mexico). There has been no major
mechanical breakdown since AREHART has been supervising the maintenance of the
equipment . . seni bins j gobo

C. INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION

While telephone tap operations are commonly classified as "support operations",
the LIENVOY Project by nature of some of its targets, has produced considerable



14-00000

aes

-2-
i

positive intelligence, It has been reviewed both at Hesdquarters and in the
Mexico Station as one of the most productive telephone tap projects in KUBARK
of both FI and CI/CE information.
(1) PI information. From 1 February, 1964 through 31 December 1964, this
project was the source of 240 positive reports. The general subject categories
within which these reports fall as related to objectives of the most recent RMD -
(HMNS-3190 dated 21 October 1963) eres

i

Priority A. 1, 2, 3, and Priority B, 1, 2, ana 4,

Cuban Embassy Activities in Mexico

Soviet Enbassy Activities in Mexico 24
Avity of Mexican Governuent with regard to intentions and strategy]
in domestic end foreign affairs

Commnist Party of Mexico (POM) Activities in Mexico

Commnist Front Activities (Movimento Liberacion Nacional - MIN) in

Mexico

Activities of Commnist, Leftist, (or outspoken Anti-PEPRIME political 24
figures) i

Activities of Commmist China representatives in Mexico

(2) CI/cz information, In eadition to the general subject categories of
FI interest, the LIENVOY Project fulfills a standing requirement to provide
CI/CE deta on the following selected targets: Cuban Embassy - six lines
Enbassy - five lines; Czech Bubassy - two lines; Polish Eubassy - 2 lines;
Yugoslav Embassy - two lines (disconnected in April 1964); and the Commnist
Chinese News Agency (NCNA) - one line (being installed as of January 1965).

D, EFFECTIVENESS i

(1) From 1 February 1964 through December 1964 (eleven months) the LIENVOY
Project covered a total of 30 (thirty) targets simitancously which provided
7,462 reels of raw take. This was processed into 21,564 pages of transcripts
(of this amount actual count by LIENVOY processors was 17,' pages, an estimate
by the outside Czech translator was 1,500 pages, Russien translator 2,000 pages,
and Polish translator 1,000), Enclosed as Attachment=2 is a copy of the work
load log and list of targets which Arnold F, AREHART provides the Station on a
monthly basis. This log, of course, includes only the work done inside the LP
and variance of monthly figures is accounted for by additional work done by other
Station @eatisterad) trenslators. i ~

(2) (a) (Mexican) Targets. Of the 30 lines covered, 15 of’ bien axe always” _
exclusively for KUBARK, The remaining targets are ‘selected’ by(LIRAMA) but’ are eae
usually of interest to KUBARK es sources of positive intelligence.” The (Mexican) >

“targets covered during the past project year were:



14-00000

YW. Ww.
Wy st
~ Chke eee

| Ral rea

or

A - gos
x al EN Pe
f mts Rye cee

| ' 7

23 85 25 Alonso. Aguilar Monteverde
(prominent Mexican Marxist intellectual, tituler head
Of the Movimiento Liberacion Nacional, MLN, member of
Comite Mexicano por Paz - Mexican Peace Committee,
Former hesd of the Circulo Estudios Mexicanos ~ CEM -
Commnist Front Cultured. Group. )

46 12 70 Vicente Lombardo Toledano : : |
oY “(Mexican Marxist labor leader) .

35 59 82 Union Nactonal Stharquista
(Rightist Catholic group)

“45 59 52 David Alfero Siqueiros
(painter snd Comminist rabble rouser)

35 36 52 Politica
(bi-weekly Meraist, anti-PEPRIME, Pro-Cuba magazine)

21124 Francisco Galindo: Ochoa
66 54 (Press Secretary for the Partido Revolucionario
Institucional - PRI)

D.F.S. (private Line of the Director, Manuel Rangel
Escemilla) :

50
16 Prensa Latina |
15 (Castro Cuban subsidized tabloid)

06 Enrique Gonzalez Pedrero
: (member of National Executive Committee of Movimiento
Idberacion Nacional - MLN)

(pro-Commini sts ~ -Lezero Cardenas Del “Rio.
and leader in the Movimtento Liberacion Nacional - MLN)

+10 29 69 Movimiento Idberacion Nacional - MLN
|~ (anti-PEPRIME, pro-Cuban Commnist Front group)

|



14-00000

“gn : —_

46 2219 Armando Castillejos Ortiz
(leader-of the Partido Commista Bolchevique, Partido
-Comuniste Mexicano - PCM sister, ern)

10 27 24 Juan Ortega Arenas
(leader of Frente Obrero - Workers Front - a dissident
‘splinter group of the Partido Commista Mexicano)

\\O£ the 19 targets listed above, 15 vere covered similtancously depending
upon (Mexican)interest in the individual at the time; however, lines to all the
above run into the intercept center and can be connected as machines become
available when other lines are out of order or disconnected for one reason or
another. j

The reels from the above targets are not transcribed completely,
monitors extract significant converssjions and include then in the "Ce
the original of which is read daily by @IRAMA)and a copy of which is ree
daily to the Mexico Station. The reels are retained usually for ten days for
fuller transcripts if requested 5 (the Mexican consumers of the "re:
the Mexico Station, ma 's typed in four copies at the end of each
day (covering conversat: cits vaten oceurrea that day) 9008 the following morning
by 0800 hours, one copy is hand-carried by 0 LERAMA,) At the same time,
Arnold F, AREHART delivers a copy to Robert RIGGS for delivery to Willerd Cc,
CURTIS. A third copy is delivered ‘to (LTELEGANT ‘by LIENVOY-2) The fourth copy is
retained in a chronological file in the intercept center. 91,0

7

(>) _KUBARK Targets, ‘The Mexico Station CI/CE requirement is partially
fulfilled by LIENVOY which during the past project year covered the telephone
ines of the Cuban Embassy, Soviet Fbassy, Czech Embassy, Polish Rnbassy, Yugoslev
Embassy, and made preliminary installation for the Commmist Chinese News Agency
(NCNA), ‘There follows selected significant examples of the LIENVOY product from
each of these targets with a Station appraisal of its effectiveness.

1. Quban Bubassy. The six.lines covered are:
14 42 57 ‘The Ambassedor's private telephone
25 OT 95 The Chancery |

14 13 26 The Chancery |

25 09 14 The Commercial Office

11 28.47 The Consulate

25 07 T7 Elena Vasquez Gamez

The Chancery and Consulate lines regularly identify foreigners in
Mexico who contact the Cuban Embassy. Expeditious processing of
the transcripts frequently permits the Station to_arrange for =.
unilateral survetlence’and-identification of other-contacts. The
Commercial Office coverage provides information on Cuben Comercial
activities in Mexico and identification of firms dealing with Cuba,

The Elena Vasquez Gomez target has been of interest in connection
with the AMROD operation, The AMROD Headquarters Case Officer, Thomas



14-00000

- G. URQUHART (ps), presently: in Mexico on temporary duty has
provided the Station with the following evaluation of the LIENVOY
product: "The LIENVOY production on the Cuban Enbassy traffic in
Mexico City has been one of, the basic elements contributing to the
success of the AMROD operation, directed against the CUIS for CA
purposes. The LIENVOY operation has been of value in two general
senses: a. The documentary material derived from the texts has
formed some of the basis for reconstruction of historical facts
needed for the operation. b, The day to day coverage has enabled
the case officer on the AMROD operation to sense the climate inside
the target, to keep track of the movements of key opposition personnel,
to check on the bona fides of certain egents, to check the work of
others for veracity and to live monitor portions of the reactions
to the AMROD operation itself, Being able to keep track of the
shifts and movements of the, opposition and their personal relations
has been of vital importance to this operation. On two occasions
the AMROD Case Officer also used the LIENVOY base as his cormand
post when engineering personal contacts between a KUBARK staffer
and the opposition. This type of close support did mich to determine
the success of those meetings and contributed greatly to the success
of the operation. These transcripts provide one of the best sounding
boards for the AMROD operation and are regularly forwarded to me at
Headquarters." i

The six lines above are fully transcribed by LIENVOY transcribers
and delivered by AREHART to RIGGS each morning. Lengthy conversa-
tions sometimes require an additional day for transcription. A
carbon copy is pouched weekly to Headquarters for WH/SA use. The
original is retained by the Mexico Station. A third copy is retained
in the intercept center chronological files?\ does not read
these transcripts unless sone significant item appedrs in the

(cesunen)' which causes him to ask for a fuller transcript or listen
tO the tape.

The coverage of this target also yields a good picture of daily
activities, residences, personal habits and weaknesses of Cubsn
official personnel in Mexico, This is used by Station Case Officers
in selection of targets for recruitment and in checking on activities
of agents already recruited and either working for or in contact

-with Embassy officials.

2. Soviet Embassy, The soviet Government has over 2 titty officials
permanently stationed in Mexico (the largest foreign embassy except
for the U.S.). _ Thirty-four of these Soviets (almost 70 percent of
the staff) are-kmown or suspect intelligence offteers, The-five-~
lines under LIENVOY provide details on the activities of mst of
these Soviets. The lines are:



14-00000

i
15 6055 Soviet Consulate and Chancery. This line is used by
fifteen (15) knova or suspect KGB officers. It is also
used by foreigners in Mexico attempting to make contact with
the Soviets. When contacts suggest clandestine meetings, the
Station arranges for unilateral surveillance and has had
some success in identifying contacts.

15 61 55 Soviet Chancery, This line is used primarily by the Ambassador
and provides more information on protocol contacts than leads
of intelligence interest. However, it gives the Station a
picture of the personalities being cultivated by Soviet
diplomats and of Mexicans who sre seeking contacts with the
Soviets. i

15 61 07 Soviet Comercial! Office. Four (4) known or suspect GRU
officers use this number, They are Military intelligence
officers using Commercial Office cover and in some instances
actually perform commercial functions of trade negotiations
but the volume of trade between Mexico and the USSR does
not justify a Commercial Office staff of eight (8) Soviets.
This produces some information useful to check on double
agent operations run by the Station against the GRU officers.
In addition, the LIENVOY product usually identifies the
GRU officers as escorts for trade, scientific, commercial,
and tourist delegations who now are constantly on trips
from the USSR to Mexico. LIENVOY also provides details of
the itineraries of these groups once they arrive in Mexico.

15 12 64 Soviet Films Office. This leads into the residence’ and
office of Vladimir Petrovich OBRUBOV, a suspect GRU officer,
who distributes Soviet Commercial Films in Mexico. There
have been several calls from what appear to be Central
fmericans but the Station has not been successful in identify-
ing the callers or determining the nature of the calls,

15 © 87 Soviet Military Attache, This is the least productive of
the coverage simply because the Soviet Military officers
either won't answer the telephone or spend very little time
where it rings. Nevertheless, U.S. AWOL servicemen try
this number to make contact, There are three GRU colonels
and six (6) civilian GRU officers who use this line.

The Soviet information is transcribed by the LIENVOY transcribers in
the same way as the Cuban’ traffic except that the transcripts are
delivered daily with the reels from which an outside. translator -
(Douglas J, FEINGLASS) trenscribes the Russien conversations into
English. These Russian conversations are of considerable value and
it is apparent that the Soviets are not aware that these conversations
are being overheard and understood, There have been conversations
identifying code room personnel; one conversation between two Soviet
children revealed the entire layout of the Soviet Commercial Office;
personality clashes and grievances are also aired.



14-00000

In June 1964 the SR Division. made available personnel for temporary
duty in Mexico to analyze and collate personality and background
data collected by LIENVOY but which had accumlated in Station

files on Soviet officials. These Soviet Personality Reports (SPR)
should be useful on a world-wide basis as Soviet officials are
transferred from post to post, in providing the KUBARK representative
with a sumary of the Soviet's past work pattern, intelligence
activities as fer as known, physical description, weeknesses, and
vulnerability toward recruitment by a Western service, Not all but
a large percentage of this data is received from LIENVOY.

3. Czech Embassy, Two lines in the Chancery (45-30-91 and 45-'
are Covered by LIEWVOY. Reels from these targets are delivered
daily by AREHART to RIGGS who delivers them to the EE Case Officer
who arrenges for transcription and translations to be done by David

B. SCHLAGHTER, field contract agent. This agent also prepares a
monthly summary of information on the activities of Czech officials
in Mexico, During September 1964 LIENVOY revealed important informa-
tion on the establishment of a factory equipped with Czech machinery
to produce dyes in Mexico (ANYL MEX), In addition to the significance
of this information in assessing Czech economic activities in Mexico,
there was operational benefit in dealing wit! BER, a Czech
official on temporary duty in Mexico in coméction with the opening
of this factory.

12)

4, Polish Bubassy, LIENVOY covers one line (11 25 49): in the main
Chancery which produces data.on the activities of Polish officials
stationed in Mexico, The second line (25 82 38) is the private line
of Polish Commercial Counselor, Czeslaw SLOWAKTEWIEZ, in vhom the
Mexico Station has a definite operational interest @s e recruitment 24
target) Reels (without transcripts) from these targets ere delivered
daily~Dy AREHART to RIGGS who delivers them to the EE Case Officer
who arrenges for translations and transcriptions to be done by Norma
Q. RYMINSKY, a contract employee.

5. Yugoslav Enbassy. During part of the project year LIENVOY

covered two lines in this Eubassy, The lines were disconnected by
LIENVOY in April 196% and trensferrea to LIFEAT,» The reason for

this termination was to conceal interest in QMPEIAL, en\agent recruited )-
as a result of a follow-up of a lead supplied through LIENVOY coverage.
During the time this target was covered, LIENVOY transcribers provided
transcriptions of the Spanish conversations. The reels were then
delivered to Victor W. OBOLD, a career agent who provided translations.

l
_ $+ Commmist Ching’ News Agency (NCNA), On 18 December, 196% Willard
C. CURTIS briefed. ‘the presence in Mexico..of: representatives ~

ol é ist China using journalist cover for an intelligence mission.

agreed to install LIENVOY coverage of this line and(share the?
fake with the Mexico Station, This will be al can line and 74
replace the present coverage of the DF. The Station hopes to use
this information to influence Gans feclare these persons persona
non grata, .LIFEAT has been taken off bf this target.

\
\



14-00000

Gl

In sumary, the Station Case Officers responsible for established FI
end CI/CE programs feel thet LIENVOY has made a very necessary intelligence
support contribution. It should be noted that LIENVOY facilities during the
project year produced about three times the volume of raw audio take as that
produced by LIFEAT over the seme length of time at approximately one half the
cost, This is possibly due to the (centralized\tapping and transcribing fasilities
of LIENVOY as compared with the widely scattered ones of LIFEAT, LIENVOY(as a24
liaison tep operation)is sble to tap any phone desired whereas LIFEAT, (as @ 4
unilateral operatioh, mist teke grester ‘security precautions. The Chief of
Station Mexico feeld that the success of Station Mexico's operational program
against the Cuban, Soviet and Soviet Satellite installations and personnel in
Mexico is largely attributable to the contimuous and thorough coverage of these
targets provided by LIENVOY. COS recommends that the project be renewed for
another year as an essential collection and sipport operation for the Mexico
Station,

E. PROBLEMS

. There have been no significant security, cover, control, or liaison problems
during the project year,

Ty :
>
¥. GxatsoW ay

This Project continues to encompass(en unofficial liaison relationship with
high-level Mexican government officials and contributes to the friendly attitude
of these officials toward ODYOKE. ’)

Some examples are:

2). Iq January 196+ CURTIS met wien Gaxtbscd to discuss Commmist China and
was told by (LITENSOR)that ¢he Mexican Government would not recognize Red China24
during his administratdo -

el
w\ d). TS had several meetings with GIELEGAND during April 1964 when
(GrmbhinSproviaea information from (ITBISOR) on Commnist agitation throughout
Mexico. 7

ol ol *
c). In August 1964 CURTIS and (LTELBCANT)met with (LIRAMA)to discuss the
continuation of the LIENVOY Project.
°
a). In September 1964 CURTIS at the request of Chief, PBSWING, sew (rash) to
deliver an invitation to visit the home of GPLOGIC,..Several other mestings were
held between CURTIS and (IRA prior to this trip, 2 0 7
r)

e). On 7 November 1964 Chester D, DAINOLD and Cedric B, PAPATE accompanied
CURTIS to a meeting with where DATNOLD and PAPATE gave briefings on the
Cuban situation end on Latin@merica, Full details of these briefings were
reported to Headquarters in HMMA~24700 RYBAT dated 9 November 1964,



. A <4
£). 0x9 Decenber 1964 Eri) ackea CURTIS for assistence(in providing a
LIRAMA |

special ink

Headquarters KURIOT fulfilled this request supplying the ink and sending 24
@ specialist to Mexico to instruct LIRAMA in its use)

of

g). On 16 December 1964 CURTIS met with (LTRAMA) ana provided him with
information on Cuban Embassy activities and association with members of Mexican
universities, Personalities in the S.N.T.E, and pro-Cuban associations, Capture
of guerrillas, erms and documents in Guatemala, Chinese Commmists in Mexico, and
Commnist Activities in Chihuahua. Copies of information given to were
pouched to Headquarters. of >

G, INTER-AGENCY COORDINATION.

* No formal coordination is required in this Project. Chief, PBSWING, Mexico,
is the only ODYOKE official in Mexico outside who is aware of this project
and its provision for 2 @pectal channel to TRAE Special briefings are cleared
with PBSWING before representatives meet with GIRANO! CURTIS advises Chief,
PESWING of significant pertinent subjects which are discussed in meetings
between CURTIS TRAE)

a

EH. PLANS.

‘The Station plans to continue the interceptlbrogran without change for the
next project year. As previously noted, (LIRAM has asked that the project
continue without a change in personnel or in the manner of operation.

I, FuNDs.

i. For the past period.

The cost of the LIENVOY Project (paid by Mexico Station exclusive
of Headquarters costs) from 1 February 1964 through 30 June 1964 was
US $19,415.22 and from 1 July 1964 through 31 December 1964 $23,677.68
and for January 1965 $5,000.00 is estimated,

2. During the next project year. i}

During the period 1 February! 1965 through 31 January 1966, an
estimated amount of US $47,468.00 will be required with US $19,U10'to
be spent from 1 February 1965 through 30 June 1965 and $28, 458. 00 to be
spent from 1 July 1965 through 32 January FIG 66s seeetmesmeseren -



14-00000

3. Agent Salaries.

FY 1966
ol

ramworge) 3,360.00
LIENVOY- 1,680.00
LIENVOY-5 1,680.00
‘LIENVOY-6 1,120.00
LIENVOY-7 1,120.00
‘LIENVOY-11 1,680.00
LIENVOY-12 1,680.00
LIENVOY-1- 1,120,00
LIENVOY-15 56h.
LYENVOY-16 1,120,00
LIENVOY-18 1,680,
Christmas bonus one month's pay 1965 2,320.00
Contingency fund for new agents or 1,334.00
severance pay
Operational expenses 1,200.00
Local purchase supplies & equipment 1,500.00
Upkeep of QP vehicle (1) 100.00
Safehouse rental 1,500.00

Entertainment & gifts for Mexican
officials 2,000.00 2,000.00

Purchase of information via eninge 1,200.00 1,600.00
TOTAL $ 19,010.00 — $ 28,458.00

J. ANNEX.

On two occasions during the Project year, the Station requested KURIOT
assistance in making a technician avellable for temporary duty replacement for
Arnold F. AREHART, Newton T. RUTSAY came to Mexico in May and September 1964
to supervise the tap center and maintain the equipment. The Headquarters
support furnished this project was timely and commendable.

K. EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.

There has been no change in emergency conditions eee since the
last. project, renewal request. ..



14-00000

ia
S

H

i

{

1
a
i
ot
!
my

LIENVOY PROJECT cost: U.S, 47,468. per annum
-_———~...".".".__. al

STATION
Willard C, Curtis
Case Officer

FE Case Officer
D. Schlageter .

Contract Agent |: .
Czech .

Robert B, Riggs
Case Officer.

N.Q, Ryminsky
Contract Employee
Polish

Arnold F, Arehart
Staff Agent

D. Feinglass
Staff Agent
Russian

LIENVOYgZ) 7!
Gtexican Supervisor
Field Agent

24

MONITORS = _ ‘TRANSCRIBERS WATCHMAN FILES
LIENVOY=4 LIENVOY-6 Cuban Tapes “ LIENVOY«15 LIENVOY-14
LIENVOY-5 LIENVOY-7 Cuban Tapes
LIENVOY-11 - LIENVOY-16 Russian Tapes (Spanish)
LIENVOY-12 .- .

: TARGETS
KUBARK: ... -) CANS:-

2. Gen, Cardenas (20 30 18, 20 83 46)
2 = Prensa Latina (46 60 16, 46 60 15)
2 - Galindo Ochoa (35 66 54, 185 21 14)
-L = Lie, Aguilar ( 28 85 25 :

1 = Lic, Lombardo Toledano (46 12 70)
1 - Sinarquista (35 59 82)

1 + Alfaro Siqueiros (45 59 52)

1 = Politica (85 36 52)

1 - Lic, Gonzalez Pedrero (43 15 06)
"1 -M.L.N. (10 29 69)

1 = Castillejos Ortiz (46 22 19)

5 = Cuban Enbassy (14 42 37, 25 07°95, 25 09 14
11 28 47, 14 18 26).
1 - Vazquez Gomez (25 07 775
_ § = Soviet Embassy (15 55, 15 12 64, 15 61 55
cs 15 69 87, 15 61 07
2 « Czech Embassy (45 80 91, 45 30 12)
2 = Polish Embassy (11 25 49, 25 82 58) 99

ATTACHMENT No. 1 ‘to : : 1 JANUARY 1965
LIENVOY Project Renewal : : MEXICO DF
Forwarded in HMMA~25141 .


14-00000

1964 WORK LOAD FOR LIENVOY PROJECT

fae

MONTH _ JAN | FEB | MAR | APR| MAY | JUN | JUL | AUG | SEP | CCT NOV’ | DEC |. OPAL

nasuse Faces — |102{ 119 | 136-| 120] 132 | 122 | 144 | 107 | 122 1350. :
cance —[s| al al =| =| «[o] =| «| «| a] «| a
. | ROSA TAPS 110 | 118 123] 137,] 112 | 120 | 108 | 109 | 115 | 104°] 119 1359 -
) s~ :
” _RUSA PAGES - 763 | 864 | 790 | 825] 862 | 795 | 805 | 737 | 763 | 803°| 633-| 495 9135 s,

POLACA TAPES 496

hw
.o)
>
ew
>
“I
wr
w
ry
we
>
>
we
oO
~
we
fons
ine)
be
\o
~J]
we
Ne}
(os)

1956

Ww
al
NM
o
>
fon)
Ww
an
ow
B
Sy)
2 PO
ww
oO
we
oy
~~
>
~]
vw
2.
reg

CUBANA TAPES

“CUBANA PAGIS + | 670] 798°} 713 } 664] 679 | 748°] 879°] 612 | 553 3124
Sc =
. “ovasa trae ussp] 13] 4or | 389] 394] 314 | 236 | 269 | 308 | 346 3560
a > JOTALs
1: aed
" ATTACHMENT No, 2 to — : : ii _ if

- LIENVOY Project Renewal : A ;
Forwarded in HMMA-25141 Hd LA



LINEA

NAQUIZA TSELEFONO
1 1 20-30-18
2 39 46-22-19
3 3 20-83-46
4 4 23-25-25
35 5 46-12-70
6 22 35459-82
1 45 11-28-49
8 34 15-50-55
9 9 45-59-52
10 10 35-36-52 -
1 36 14-42-37
12 12 45-30-91
B 13 25-07-95
14 47 25-09-14
15 43 25-82-38
16 16 (45-11-30
uw 33 15-12-64
18 n 11-28-47
19 4 [35-66-54
20- 20 46-60-16
a1 44 [43-15-06
22 35 15-51-55
23 33 {15-60-15
24 19 13-21-14
25 1s 25-07-77
26 26 15-69-87
27 27 15%61-07
28 23 45-20-12
29 29 [10-29-69
30 31 14-13-26
2 11-43-53

5 14-96-45

GNA - fine

Tp

2
Bessey 7 MO-27-24,, Bh

¥ alte ee
. Ce

SUECR

PTS

GRAL. LAZARO CARDENAS BSL RIO
LIC. ARZANDO CASTILLEJOS ORTIZ
GRAL, LAZARO CAR DEL RIO
LIC. ALOHSO AGUILAR MOH DE
LIC. VICSNTS LOMBARDO TOLEDANO
UNION NACIONAL SINSRQUISTA

UMBAJADA POLACA a

EMBAJADA RUSA
DAVID ALFARO SIQUZIROS
ITICA 4

REVISTA POL
SuBAJADA CUBANA
SUBAJADA CHECA
EUBAJADA CUBANA
BUBAJADA CUBANA
TADA PDLACA
D.7.8.) A
BMBAJADA 2USA
TUBAIADA CUB
FRANCIS? GALINDO OCHOA

JADA RUSA
A LATINA

EMBAJADA
EMBAJADA POLACA
BABAJADA POLAGA
SpE ORTIGA ARI as 94

CUBANA

OBSERVACTONSS.

eee

at

LIBSRASICN NACIONAL } 94 \ X

