# 104-10255-10002

## Page 1

104-10255-10002

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SEC RET

TO:

FROM:

SECURITY OFFICER, CIA

PT/CS (OPC)

DATE 25 Set 125...

JoGa6368

SUBJECT:

background data is submitted separately.

Information and/or clearance

quested for case category as follows:

ProT Op. Clearance 22

Sec. Clearance

Sp. Inquiry-

_ Operational Suppor........

2. Scope and nature of use of activity:

01,11

Intelligence Support officer on iroject BETCY/philappines.

3. Suggested "cover" for investigation: XX Governnental.

Commercial __ Other

Specific

since subject is presently a nember of the Army, suggest

military cover for investigation.

4 Limitations, if any, on investigation: No CIA interest

Has

5. Subject

been briefed investigation pending.

has not

6. Subject

bas

been briefed on "cover" story to be used in the investigation.

has not

7 Subject

indicated to probable investigative contacts investigation pending.

has not.

8. Subject indicated to probable investigative contacte toveni story to be used

has not

Investigation to be completed as:

Routine x. Expedite

By not later than 1 Octe 1951

10. REMARKS: Partiel Beckoraind Investigation completgab zuy 13 Feb. 1950,

report filed He Fifth Army.

LOWJOHN CAN BREWER

Informational name check reg. on

1B Septenber

Distribution:

Background info was forain at thay time

Addressee - Orig. & 1

OD/OP - 1

SD/RE - 2

0D/OP JBB/1d

6av.0aued dolled

---

