# 104-10174-10149

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10174-10149

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

chief el station. derico elly.

CAlei. bil 01vlalon

sanel

LICINE-T

ATANARL dO DATINIS

ACTION RAQLIRUD: 3uo belou

N0:0484.915

102018:00138

181.86

the statloa Case Offlcer no doubt reallees, threa of the persons

llosed as close associates. of subject ara leltista to soca degree.

cula sly be adrancagecus alace LICINI-l may bo in a positlen

inforaation for bla studles for Lifurg"and be suy. on more trusted dy left late

la she target troupe, Headquarters presupes the Station will exercise caution

la dermalat Subject through the Likurta.

LICHANI-I'S FOW/OA 13 DOiNG anEN-

ded to atipulare tint the Seatlon will not handle Subject direcely, chat he

ahould not be made wittlag of SUlli or ODYOKE interest ln dis activitleo, nor

ahould sensitlve regulrements ba rovealed to him: This restriction con bo

valved upon assurances by the Station that LICIUNT-l does not share the pro-

Communfat and pro-soviet.

antI-U.S. sympathies of the three frlenda in ques-

thon and that ho can be adequataly controlled.

Headquartero ulshes to especially caution the 3tarioa

JAIME CARCIA TeTTe'& NhO URa reported la IIMM-1426 Of Auyuat 1959 as being

sa the pay of the sovlet Kabasay for his literary work for the El Eapectador

ougastue, and for ilo fridabip with Marla Blena VARUEZ GoDeS (NEXI 6486,

October 1960) who ls a suspect soviet Agent.

END' OF DISPATCHI

Diatribution:

¿ - Mexico City

INITIAL

"CHORS ALICRENCE TO

EEASSAICATION

SBCRET

37!- 331599

*ATE TIMO

CURE DISPAÍCHLO

28 SEP 1962

25 SSPI, 1962!

A SINTED SUMPOR ATO MUNERA

1988-4-10929

201-331599

iNPREN

OHIGIAATINST

Transo

WU/3MEXICO C. 2. Bustos

ord

CORED IG

ACMexI

5940

=.

DESIREE

53 tree: a seric.i

"alk

25f.81

beenant 03

XING

DISPATCH

3/RS

---

