/104-10164-10421)

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

WH/COG: 344-76
10 January 1974

MEMORANOUM FOR: Chief, Western Hi
SUBJECT 1

REFERENCE fy fits ge Tespyae Articles of 28 and 31

sphere Ofvision

check was. conducte
tive results. A check w.
ecur ity to deteraine wheth
that one Salvator cad Gites

Salvatore

an made with
their records

er employed by
article of
$73, We were adv iy Inquirtes con-
weadter sould be uede te Mr. Greckinetdge,
Seput Inspector General, WH/COG touched base with Hr.
Breckinridge who sald that he had received a copy of the

2. We have ed the fallcwing (nm
Richard Cain, svbse the referen 268
Richard $

rT

947 and enlisted Aray
etecherged te 1960. fetieutn Sis trey service
ated with: Tivest ative enters ein Kismat and
1966 he entered the TH Peltee. Capertaan?
jad) where he remained until 0. Concurrent with
oynent he. operated the Accurate Laberatortes, . rivese
H Hts Heth Listed below ts « chrenetogy ef CIA

“ eins

Vall of 19

A Cala atetered ntact

with the OC Chtaage. Field Office and vel-

TE rerided Information on the ective
8 uban exile groups in the -Chtasge

wwroey ne
Hater n —Sitie



SEGnET

“2.

8. June 1961 - Cain contacted Mr. Lohmann,

of the Chicago Flold Office, to repert an
ach made to him by a Mr. Kroupansky

‘eportedly negotiating with the

of Panama to investigate comauntse

« Cafn was to assist Kroupansky in
this endeavor. : wv

C, Summer of 1961 - Cain was met in Mexico
City by a CIA staffer, identity unknown,
purpose unknown.

0. Oct 1961 - Catn wrote to Mr. pans an fH
from va f :
toward

atti tud u. fa
Ameri countries and offered ah services %
the Agency.

€. April 1962 = Cain made an unannounced visit —

te Agency representatives Winston Scott and

{n Mextco City and {aformed thes

stigative agency he had tn Mexico

ches in Chicago and Loe Angeles) whfch
rt

patitics.

4 dune 1962 » Cain wee deported from Kexice

i nd brees keueitete
ating : ment efffatal, and
Cieeieetatiesiere oieveetes Sle tourist permis by working.

19 Auguste. 1963 = Ca tat the Late
fiers orive Athletics " Adotoks Club fw.

werk eversaas..
Tt. wag: pointed out ta Coin
a Fra oh eration with ClA utente be
ene

’ he apply: for. s)
etek CLA tet sthe-futers, At the’siee Sate torhed

ef. open

re Ca
ani with CIA



gies

-3-

for the Cook County Sheriff's Office. He e
also was in contact with Cubans fn the Chicago
a who were involved in ventures which were

OM’ ly legal. Cain was told of Agency
requirements in general, and agreed to
the Agency by providing information
Gover activities of the Cubans
° 0 Sferra end his contect

ai ‘of any Cubans who aight.
CIA, and noting tn particular ru
CIA contacts in the Chicago ares.
WN. 26 30 August 1963 - Informe
Cata to the OCN Chicago Office was
the Cuba Desk et Headquarters. The 26 Aw
I} ation concerned Student. Direct
Cuban exile group jo Flo
The 30 August inforaat’
(aterest in purchasing @

1.11 Se 1963 ~ iseace Spaad7requested

@ PCSA/CS: in but there ia ne indfcation

{t was ever ted.

9. 12 September 1963 - Cain reported to the a
ie U ns

d Office information 61 rso
tatives of

ativ

Ravoluctonario Estudiantt} - whe

arse Laer Catn planned

ating w ! jege: reps
eee aoeeds vie OCD. Washington

and CCC Chic t word to Cain te
ef the pictu on 8 8 o woke
RO conai teen

HK, 8G? = The Office of Security files shew
thet the Fel in 1967 fn
HH Cafx becavce of 011)
er this reason the FO Fr

Cepsinate 1s eesectation with Cafa.

hi 6 Avett 1972 - Cain returned te Chteage free
alee City, then 4tsepp ut. + May 1978

gyn

t


saytng he was going to Latin America.
Cain allegodiv was involvad fn (Ileal
internatioral arms deals and on various
Occastons stated he was working for CIA,

M, 16 May 1972 - An FBI agent in Mextce
ctty asked Mexico City Station for traces
According to the FBI an Eastern
ilot had fdentifted Cain as the

r Are forced him to fly to Honduras

on He Wr May 1

There {8 no Indication that a clearan
fer use of Cain by the Agency or tha! ved
from the A by & We have been unabt

atn’s claim @ worked for the OSS during

Peas ‘i Orvilte Bathe
Ef C/wH/

Ofgtribucton:
rig & 1 + Addressee
« COG Chrono
© COG/0S
. Originater

7 Besse b+ Howe

BOO/WH/COR/OSiCHopkinaird (typed 10 dan, 74)

