# 104-10178-10064

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10178-10064

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SUASPiT PORE DAME IN DOMAR BETIES

T. A Las Closets POSt CATstt08(2020200995)

a/17

REQUEST.EDR GREEN LIST

HAME CHECK Nº 159998

RETURN TO

Hackground Use

Not Reproduce

3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTM.

1. 151:7855957 1923, Gleanaçon, Cubaz

Auben

S. PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

Auto Body Ropalroan. Realdos at 750 Molo 15th St..

Mard, tie.

6. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, COUCATION

Auto Body Repalsean

L: PAST ACTIVITIES INCLUDING MILITARY SERVICE

ACTIVITY

P# Tralnos 17362, Brigado 2506.

CRLGIMALING OFFICER

1198

(Mox Aborta

03

WH/C/RR/OSOX

6.300. 8.119186

00 14,

{1:10Ç150

7666

:8. P98E 8E REQUEST (CHECH ONE)

# FIRST TIME SUBMITTED

•ACITISRAL CATA

O MiRER FOR CURRENT

¿8, IB'EPEST IN SUBJECT (CHEEK ONE)

O ISPIERRiS CR CE ACTIVITY

• SATGATIONAL CLEARANCE

LATIN

DAILS

USA

8. OTMER SIGMIFILANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) - ADD EXTRA SMLETS MMER NEEDED

?. DESCRIPTION

THE IGHTT

(NEIGHTY

(EVEST

(r419)

(RACE)

10. SPOUSE (IF MIFE, GIVE MIIDEN RAVE)

I. SHER EMERSON PRECIATE, LETTAND ASSOCIATES

12. INFORMATION REGUIRED (OOF ME SPELET ALWiRENS) TERNS SUCH AS "DERIATUITO MAY RESULT IN A SEARCA

All partinent inforsation

(OTHER)

59. Nd 65 1

11- 30098S

INSTRUCTIONS: SENE BOTH SHEETS TO PUT FORMS COMPLETELY,

SEE CSI 10-8

100.

UIBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

TO:

FROM:

7 Apr11 2965

CATE

d0 A

d.

SE DOSSILA DA SUQUECT IN FI:O BIOGRAPHIC RILES.

A MCMORANDVA IS ATTACHED MEDETO.

DETAINE WHERE NETE IS TIE TOO DU THE SUEST, CAO IS URABI TO

D. 12O0DO9 5110 MAS NO ATIOOXADIA INFORMATION UN SURJICT, IS INFORMATION AROUS THE

SUBJECT APPEARS AT A LATER DATE, IT MILL BE REFORTED TO YOU AS iT BECOMES

AVAILABLE.

THE SUBJECT OF TMIS REGUEST IS APPAREATIY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLONINGE

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

ONE A THE SUSJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT DO YOUS OFFICE, THIS SMEET, WITH THE FOLLINING CANCELLATION

DOTICE COMPLETIO, SMOULO BE SEAR TO AIIO.

REVILN TOUR FILE OF TMESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/O THE SHEETS FRA MERSORS THAT ARE NO

LERGER CE SUFFICUENT INTEREST TO DEMADO a CONTINHING MAME CHECK.

PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FIID°S

FACILITIES MITA CONTINUING SERACHES FCO INFOTMATIDN THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO:

F1/0

CATE

A.0M. D: 160186

8IrrosIce

CANCEL THE STAP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

...

1/8R

---

## Page 3

4-00000

ТУРА PAPS E.

RAIN

DPOB

CIT IZENSHIP

OCCUPATION

FESE DENCES

MARITAI

STATUS

EXLATIVES

SBCT

d Apolo 1905

1 LULO CREDANLO POSADA COTTIROS

8 15 Pebrest 1803

8 Cabas

8 derto Bodo sopasstata

8 750 HoN. I5Ch Stroot, Minsl, P1or'89

1 HIEVES AlLAS DONZALIZ IONVA

s taboren

---

## Page 4

10:

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL PR INVESTICAULYE ACTION

(Albano Aandiarey 8 8000

CI/Operational Approvnl and Suppore Diristin

security Support Diriston/Office of Serarity

SUBJECT:

(Tese nono, Lato CloRento POSADA CArTileR

RATE

• FROM:

PROJECT

J Apr1l 1929

HR/C/RR/OSOI

G0 16

_7646

до внех но.

4H 300985

PROVISIONAL OPIRATIONAL APPROVAL

OPRRATIONAL APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL COVERT SICURITY APPROVAL

COVIAT SECURITO APPROVAR

COVERY SECURITY APPROVAL POR LIAISON DITM U.B.

DEFICIALS

SPECIFIC ANCA OF USE

Manis aros

FULL DITAILS Of USE

•P-TUPE ACTICA REMESTEO

PRCHISIONAL PRODRILPARY APPROVAL

PeruTtra

OVAL

CONTAT MAME CHICE

specIal InQUIRy (SO Poold (nnoardrarien)

Subjoot will be utllisod as a HAlI Offloo al Training Branca Inetuuotas.: . ..

MIAVE ENACOR DON-dOTO8, ANd ODENYY DOR-dATO8 POT WAYS 0121, 31 Mar 65.

A. INVESTIGATIOR ANO COVER

A. U.D. GCOVIRAMENT INTERIST MAY DE SHORM DURIME INVESTIGATIONE

8. ClA INTEREST MAY NE SHOMM DURIMO IMVESTIGATIONI

C. IS SUAJICT ANANE OF U-S, GOVERNNENT INTEREST IN MINT

U, 18 SUBJECT ADARE OF CLA INTEREST IN MIMO

I. IMDICATA ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTICATIDN ON SURDECT.

1. SUGGEST "COVIA PRETEXT" TO DI USCO IN COMDUCTINE PERSONAL IMVESTIGATION OF SUBIRET.

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

PRO I. OR COMIVALIAT. IM 121 COPIES ATTACNE»

PRO 11.

DA COUIVALEMT. IM 1I1 COPY ATTACHRO

MILL FORMAND

8, PRO ANO GREES LIST STATUS

IPOO II DIEL DE FORDARDIO

SiCaECO 1OST ATTACHEs. 4o: 159988

&-RI TRACES

PATRON FEROCATCAY

P. CIVISICA PARES

RECORD

FORDAND

•. FIELO TRACES

RECORD

MO

DEROGATORY InTO.

LIST SOURCES CHICACO

HOT IRITIATED (CaRlOnASiON)

BAGNATURE

ORFICER

ORROGATOR ATTARD

180SI0N (S16099L98 0E DRANCHE

7646

ahn La fou

8.88

SECRET

I

поко

DEROGATONT ATTACHED

I DENOGATONY ATTACHED

101

IBR

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

201 - 300985

SUBJECT

POSADA CArTILeD, LUtE C.

REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated

1 AprIl 1965

A Provis10251 Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject

as set forth belst.

A Provisional Opeiationál Approval Issued by CI Staff grants the same

authority, on a resporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority

grasted in an Operattonal Approval inless otheriise specified by CI/QA. It 18

based, however, oaly on preliuinary file 'checks and Investigation and 18 sub-

sect to a further final revlev uben all investigation 1s completed.

PAA 18 granted Subject contingent upon coordination being effected

NIta 00/C. (Toat affice has an interest in Subject la February 1963.)

Please infara CI/Al then coordination bas been effected.

To process the Operational Approval, full Information (completed PRO

Parts I and II) müst be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six

(0) seaths from tt's date. An Operational Approval will Pollow when all

iniestigation is crupleted and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Farts I

and I!. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Di-

Edrard Pu BoONA,

301-300985

APPROVAL

DATE

CI/SFERATIONAL APFROTAL, AND SUPPORI DIVISION

7 April 2965

18125 *'

SECRET

'*.

I/BR

---

