104-10120-10355|

-

issued any other homme cd

ial 2022 RELEASE nas THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
a!” mm g rN VO CYA

ean : : ackground Use Oniys

: i OO N50 Represwey

= x

‘
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Everette Howard Hunt, Jr.

: ‘1... Gn 30 ‘June’ 1972, Mr. “arnold L. ‘Parham, Federal <
Bureau of Investigation, inquired of the Acting Deputy Director of
Security (PS), Mr, Leo Dunn, as to documents issued by the “Agency
to Everette Howard Hunt, Jr., in the alias Edward Jos Hamilton .
or any other alias.. He mentioned specifically, a/Flori rivers .—
License; Massachusetts Auto Regietration Formis Social Secu card
and Insurance Policy... . ; + 24 :

as Cc

2, ‘I telephoned Ed Duffy, TSD Security Otficer, but ‘he wasn't
in. I ended-up talking with Wesley M. Parcells, x2531,: who checked
TSD files on documentation issued in the alias "Hamilton." “This is”
the only way the name is now listed on TSD's records. They have no ~~
first name or middle inifial, . Their records simply reflect that on two
occasions sometime between 1957 and 1964,'.alias documentation was «
issued to someone in the name of ''Hamilton,"" The requests are numbered
"1005 and 2134 on the. TSD Control Card. They do:not crose-reference
alias names to true names, and cone not aay whether. or. not Subject was”

Office of Beeurity’ re ords Sew that Subject was to lnve been
issued, among the other items, tea License with a
Providence, Rhode Island, address. Mr. Parcells said it is possible

t this was issued, and also possible that he would have been issued
a/Social Security\Card and insurance policy. None of these would have
been backstoppéd. Mr. Parcells said it would have been difficult or
impossible to renew the ([Maedachusetts Drivers License because one
would have to show up for a test, (It has been the writer's experience -
that this was not necessarily true in past years.) The| Massachusetts) i)
Drivers License would have expired in two years, ThejSocial Security) 24
Card, while fake, would be "valid" indefinitely. The insurance policy”
would presumably foc at whatever date it bore. tae



an i . 7 =

Be 4.. Itelephoned Mr. Yawrence Sternfield, Chief, WH/COG,. —
_ waking bim for.information ii WH Division files as to what documentation ' a
/: Bubjéct might ‘ever have been issued,’ Mz, *Sternfield said that. W:

Division files would not reflect information relating to-any of Bub)
eliases,:*° 7 Hee saueai ‘ 7 =

2" 38. I next spoke to.Mr. Willard Burke, Central Cover. Staf!
" x5322,. who advised that“a| Massachusetts| Drivers License and a -
iG [Massachusetts' Auto Registration Form Gre two:different items, ‘He

. Checked ‘his records on Subject, and found, after pulling them from | ~

_, Retired Files, that there was nothing relative to Cover documentation
“there, Ithen ‘checked the file myself, just to be sure,.* He ie £6
©. there'is nothing usable in the file as regards Cover docume: cover
l_..doeumentation of any kind,’ with the exception of references ject’ s
“ ” State Department status on various overseas tours and trips.

Frederick N, Evans

