‘fod-10072-10080 A\ THE PRESIDENT F, A T T OF
1-10072-1
t ‘| } : [2022 RELEASE UNDER HE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT O 1992|

a

xine agoull
Rapearao 8

Toco O1SSEMIMATION

TXT A: AGENCY.

State
We Customs
ay usce
To oF fouck *,

DYVOUR JMPALM PBRUMEN

SOURCE: Paras. 1 - St (wsea-s, who obtained the information in
pone: 1 from Francisco (Cuco) AVILA, Cuban enigre identified by
urcs as a friend of his and Rolando MASFERRER's. He got pares.
a-4 from Maogerrer, and para. 6 from Eugene L. MAXIMILIEN. Paras.
6-8; AMOT urce }Raul ARANGO de la Noval, from OLEA.
[Raul_ARANGO-de 1a Noval

RID: Pleas index fur field:
Nama: P °ALLIEGRO, Anselmito

fon ef Anselmo ALLIEGRC, former Cuban senator. Re Subj's
nvolvenment in plans for action against Govt oF Ha.

Cross roforence to:
201-042669 (Rolando HASFERRER Rojas)

S.

201-230296 (Manuel KAY Rivero) 2
201-270458 (Joan Baptista GEORGES) Plrlenttdy sh Ey
201-820655 (Antonio IMBERT Barreras) Do Nol Pape 5

iuce 2:

Bt

RD. REPRO!

q778

Tea

Group 1: Excluded from
Automatic Downgrading ems
and cea aeenieee



. i BR
FIELD INFORMATION REPORT : : |

7 r jrty reliable, © Oy Net ueusity refiable. 1 Met rot
GS esureca et URED A Commie eae Un Oe ing Bae eu at
tested ourecal:
(APPRAIBAL OF CONVENT: 1: Lhebieals sede aniasati cle bduoxsicennciaies Probably rua Mesibly true & Dour ful. = & Pronetty
beseellibelharshatbamnee CCIPIDENTIAL
CORPROLLED DESEEM
Ho POREIan DIShEH

REPORT NO.

DATE OF REPORTH? Cetedbar 1066

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

pate of 29 Soptember ~ 2 Cotober 1968
tNFO.
Puce & United States, Hiani uro-e560

DATE ACQ (8-10 Catebsr 1906) sadn dStaaatanttantataee

Talo 19 UNGVALUATED wronmavion, soun TAL OF COMTENY 18 TENTATIVE,

source: Sowyes of Paragrapho 1 - 5s Forcor Latin Azerican diplemat who
egafntaing rolaticas with effielals ef Latin Grarican countries.
Gomsss fo a trained reperter. Hic infermatica has beca reliable

aaa ile
i. Ca 20 =thy, 006 fn Hiend, Hast, Vlopida, a close escscaiato of

'
vies Rojas, forasr Cuban cenater, said that Pather |
‘Sera os G08, prominent Haitian » wan &
long uhioh Kaofersar fg fnyolvod sotica
sngole Bavalier of H2de8.3 Hogfgrrar’o acess!
e848 that an; jcceee eusccding fuade ehae’E Pather Cesorg2o coald
etteons would/ be cat by Ansolmice Alifegro, esa of Gasolina i
flegre, £6: Cae ce who flo deceased. ,
2, Ca 20 Cepecdior Th Wiad, Eootestur said thet be bed oot wich |
‘eather Gsanjca ca 1 pocisce at the hese of Bodolfo Eee uP
iq Dio Esothor. Bo: RaaGorror cald that Yathar eoomgeo

Be

Le ear ey ee gp greeted rag ths purchsse of a
wessol for trancpsrting ca capedieionasy fores to Eofed.
KesGerrsr added that tha vessel had alseaty Deon acquired.

8 HeoSermer caid that Father contac MA atnaa 86 esta of
eons end cumraiticn, inolediing/Jarana H-1 rifles cad cutezatioc
Figics givsa to hia by Rivero, cat Cubsn
for the Radtflan covolutica. Regering to Macfermer the oxetoe
ment wae cot in Hical. Kasferrar aloo mace the follewing claias:

a. Kaoferrer’s bad ex it--Ansled S$7-ma.
ee cuough equipzsm' ding

mh

Beco! 20-aa. 9, machine guss, 2-18 rifles
gad basoakas--fer} 600 waa! : : ‘
oy 3206.
d. (Gonoral) Antealo Carreras, of tid Desindecan Republie,

hed proasced to p. Consequestly, Hesferrer had seat men
€o the Doninican Repubdliie.

G
BS youziam prssm —

OISTRIBUTION



8.

COWPROLLZD DIngEH ee
Ho FOREIGH DISsEX *

-2-

U¥O-0609

ce. Ono of Hasferrer’s mea who tent to the Deninican Republic
carrying a cseall quantity of ame and armszaitica hed besa
ended by Deminican authorities despite tho fact that
the nan had dcolared that tha arma wore for eale to tho
nilitary. Santiago Roy Perna, Cuban om. fa the Doninican
Republic, had been a to intereede oines ho haa lost his
influence with tha government of President Joaquin Balaguer.

é. teers Goorges will be the leader of the Haitian "incurrec-
t o”

Kasferrar said that in view of tho arrest of hie cmisbary in
tho Deainican Republic he was roturming to Hew York for a few
days until all was calm again. Ha added that the help of Iubort
ond certain othar friends in the Doainican Republic wag being
givea without the approval of tha Balaguer government.

On 2 Ostobar 1966 one L. Hariniifen, Haitian Consul General
fn » caid that Father Gcorgos' vigit to Micni was to cake
& payseat for war materials ond vossels purchaced by Hasferrer.
Manindifen oaid that Pathar Georges had received $2,000 from
Paul Hagloiro, former Presidant of Haiti, about two weeks
earlicpy ond $7,000 from Canada. Mazimilion caid he did not
know who cent the money from Canada.

fowres of the information in paragraphs 6 - 8: A somber of a
of Cuban caigres trained fin the techniques of information
lection. The group has provided useful reports cinco 1961.

In lata Soptember Manuel Olea, Cuban calgro, eaid that Maosferrer
bad brought him froa How York to take part dn on operation
against tha Haition regina. Olea said that in Wow York Nacferver
had told hia that he (lca) would be chief of operations. Acsord-
ing to Olea, American newapapammen wore with thea from tho tise
thoy left Rew York unt4i they arrived in Hiani, taking motisa
pieturss all the tins. Ha romarkod that cinco arriving in Hieat
ho had found Hasforrer’s aetivitios very otrange. He added that
ha thought nothing definite was going to take placa, and that

he had decidad that he would not take part in the proesedings.

Olea caid that whon ko had cocked Hasferver for cone guno for
prestice choaWing Kasforrar had effered hia eeme rifles but had
told him thdt ho woald have to buy his own bullota. Ha added

that moet of the guns Nascferrer had wera useless. Purthor,

Olea eaid, ho hed noticed that a man ho knew only as Papito”

tas closely ascoolated with KMaoforrer and also worked for ths
Bafitian Consul in Hismi. When “Papito" had learned that Masferrer
was thinking of transferring his up to the Deainicen Republic
he had ismediately obtained a fean visa.

Olen complained that Masforrer had given him only $100 in Miami,
and that he had spent about $550 for roca and board for hinsel?
and three others. He added that he had had an argument with
Maoferrer because the plan was not o serious matter. Two of
Olea'’so party had returned to How York and did not plan to come
back to Miami.



snail : oa Sr PEPE eenee cuss. |" cOSSPasSERSEEEST

a CONFIDENTIAL

a COWTROLLED DISSEM aie i
NO POREIGH DISSEM - : 2
=8- ! 2
“URQ-8569 |
1
1. Field Comment. In Jaauary 1966 Masforrer told group of q
@iban enigros in Miani that Father Georges was one of

those contributing financial support to a plan for invading
Haiti. See TDCSDB-316/00225-66.

2. Source Comment. Nasferrer was probably exaggerating. He
may have equipment for 250 men.

Field Comments

a. Masferrer has proviously claimed that he had the aupport
of the Dominican Government.

4. Another source has reported on plans for making a fila
purporting to show efforts of Haitians to overthrow President
Duvalier, See UFG-6568.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM “I
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

