oa-10331 -10009|

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }*~

TOP SECRET

soe ee > C/URG
: oo (Fv)

19 May 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR?“ DO/IRO

FROM: , Edgar T. McHenry
“ Chief, Classification Review siticnanadiechaiy

SUBJECT: | Middleton Mandatory Review Request (92-0185)

1. This Lyndon Johnson Library request consists of
twenty-two documents from a Johnson Library file identified as
"NSF, Intelligence File, ‘Oswald, Lee Harvey,’ Box 9."_ The
requester, Mr. Harry J. Middleton, is Director of the Johnson
Library. The same material is also being piggybacked to
another requester, Mr. August Russo, in our case E92-0199.

2. We have made a preliminary assessment of these
documents with regard to the fact that similar documents
relating to the JFK assassination are being reviewed by the
newly restructured Historical Review Group which is under a
mandate by the DCI to assume a bias toward declassification.

3. We note the following intelligence concerns which are
evident in the Oswald material now presented for review:

Intelligence derived from foreign liaison: Found in
Document Nos. 6, 8, 9, 20, 25, 28, and 32a.

Intelligence derived from covert sources: Found in
Document Nos. 11, 13, 30, and 33a.

Intelligence derived from signals intercept (or wire tap)
programs: Found in Document Nos. 2la, 23, 24, 29, and 31.

Attachments

UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED
FROM ATTACHMENTS

TOP SECRET


. : TOP SECRET

CIA overseas locations and operations in specific
overseas locations: Found in Document Nos. 6, 11, 14,
20, 2la, 22, 23, 24, 25, 30, 32a, and 33a.

Identification of individuals and privacy considerations:
Found in Document Nos. 6, 8, 11, 2la, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28,
and 30. :

Present foreign relations considerations: Found in
“Document Nos. 6, 13, 14, 24, 25, and 27.

4, We would recommend acknowledgment of CIA stations in

Mexico City and London and the existence of @

potice liaison relationship with Mexico (and,G
{uring the period in question. ((eiataen| coicurrence for
release|should be obtained as necessary. ”

5. We believe that most of this material can be released.
We have highlighted in yellow those portions we recommend for
denial. Document No. 28 should be withheld in its entirety.

6. This review was prepared by Chris Rehder, EORS/CRB/
IP&CRD.

ERE

(‘Gat Avy |

gar T. McHer

IP&CRD/CRB/CMR 6 May 1992

Distribution TOP SECRET

Orig - Adses

- IP&CRD Chrono

- IP&CRD/CRB Chrono

IP&CRD E92-0185 w/atts

- John Carver HRG

— IP&CRD Cross ref E92-0199 (Requester Russo) w/atts
- CMR

Pee e
1

a-2-beRNQ
