# 104-10131-10036

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10131-10036

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

6.

18 April 1973

"EXORANDU. FOR:

SUE TECT

Acting Chief, Support Evaluation Saction

"To"

031

Raymond Boris

Tarasoff

[4641 108]23

I. Subject is presently being considered for Contract Type A

enploynent as an Intelligence Analyst with Depuiy Direciorate for

Operations/Information Services Division. He has neitner been

polygraphed nor entered on duty. Invitee clearance vas denied on

21 February 1973;

Field

inrestigation has now been completed and disclosed no

unfavorable information.

A waiver of Hi: 10-3

will be required in Subject's case in view of the Mexican citizen-

hip and residence of a brother-in-law.

2. Subject is a 24-year-old, married, male, who was born in

nio oi a native bor cather and agussian-born father.

Subjeci's

father, Boris Dimitri tarasoft lOn 10÷837)

Iron Turkey in 1923 and became a naturalized United States citise.

in 193Ó. A review of his security file reveals thet he entered on

November 1970. Subject's mother, Anna

vas a Staff emoloyee, GS-06, from April 1957 to September 1903, and

vas approved for Contract type Buse in July 1904. His sister,

Barbara Tarasoff. Rosillo)(OS, 538593/MD), was a "summer only" employee

in 1958. She is nor married to one Manuel Rosillo (OS/AR), a Mexican

citizen, and resides in Mexico. Subject's parents also continue to

reside in Mexico where his father had been assigned for a number of

years prior to his retirement.

3. Subject was graduated from college in lay 19T1, receiving a

Bad. degree with a major in Spanish.

Developed current employment as

a substitute teacher with the Mentom, PA, school district was co:-

finned and satisfactory as were all listed prios employments.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

І/дА

---

## Page 2

14-00000

rustirony regarding subject's character, habits, roral conduci, and

loyalty and recommended him for a position of truat with the Federal

Coverrment. Neighborhoods were rarified and lavorable and local

-

police and credit checks vere negative or non-derogatory.

4. RI, K and Office of Security Indices checks were no record

or non-derogatory.

National Agency Checks vera negative vitn tre

exception of State Passport which disclosed that Subject vas issuei

ossport 74-833647 on 12 June 1908 in lerico, purpose and place oi

travel not statedos Subject's permanent residence at that time was

given as Calle Halle 735, Mexico 5, D.F. lexico vith his parents.

ine file indicated that a previous passport, D-472771, Dhad been

issued to Subject in June 1963 at lashingion, D.C.

6. Subjeci appears to meet security criteria for Contract lype A

utilization by the Agency.

His investigation vas entirely favorole

It is noù feli tnst the

Mexican citizenship.of his brother-in-law poses a security risk, ani,

accordingly, it is recommended that:

a. Exception to HR 10-3 be granted;

b.

Subject be security approved for Contraci Type

A employmert by the Agency, subjeci to polygraph;

During polygrap. IRD

-2-

REPRET

3Ig0

---

## Page 3

14-00000

a.

Il Subjeci is subsecuantly approved for entrence

on duty, he be aitoried

= persoral interriew ans

made avare di the Agency policies regarding.

conizet rita toreiga rationals.

03

Support Evaluation Section

GOS: 8J%

-3-

---

