# 104-10308-10163

## Page 1

1104-10308-10163

. =.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

10 July 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: Requirements Briefing to FBI Informant Going to Cuba

1. In accordance with arrangements previously made with the FBI by

SAS/CI/Liaison, the undersigned went to New York onl8 July to brief an

FBI informant who is going to Cuba for two weeks. I had a short session

at the FBI office in NYC with Dale Schwant, the case officer, and we then

met with the informant for about two hours in a room at the Prince George

Hotel. The informant had been told that I would be at the meeting and that

I represented the Agency, but I was not introduced to him by name.

2. The EBI informant - Victor Thomas * Vicente - is an American-

born Puerto Ricanborn in NYe in f930. He has been under FBI control for

nearly 3 years penetrating the three pro-Castro organizations in NYC: the

Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC); the Casa Cuba, and the Jose Marti

Club.: Through the first two years Subject was only a marginal asset, in the

ast six months he nas become a valuable penetration Ior the PB. into th

bove 3 organizations as well as the Cuban UN delegation having apparentl

won the complete confidence of the pro-Castro leaders and Cuban officials

in NYC. Recently he was asked to join the CPUSA. Subject works as a

o triling l acon a ste bale in ant, in that he a earro ce volutionary.

The Cubans have expressed an interest in his moving to Cuba to work. He is

willing to go but his wife is against it, but idea is still alive.

Cuban Sponsorship

3. Subject is leaving NYÇ for Mexico City on 13 July and he expects to

go on to Cuba illegally on 15 July.

The Cuban Ambassador to the UN, Raul

Primellas, has arranged for a Cuban visa to be ready at the embassy in

ir:

Mexico Citi, and also passage to Habana on a Cubana flight. Subject is also

65921:

IRS

---

## Page 2

13-00000

N22227

-2 -

08

armed with a letter of introduction from the National Director of the FPCC,

Vicent Theodore Leel On 6 July the 3 pro-Castro organizations named

above held a party for Subject and raised $100. 00 for his trip.

Informant's Contacts in Cuba

4 Subject will contact several friends in Cuba who are milicianos, one

of them in Santiago, Oriente Province. They were fellow activists in pro-

Castro organizations in NYC who have returned to Cuba. He also has been

given (by his Cuban friends) the address of a family whose son is the chauf-

feur of Carlos Rafael Rodriguez. Arrangements have also been made for

Subject to talk to the American Communist in Habana, Robert Williams.

Subject, who will be accompanied by his wife on this trip, has been instructed

by his Cuban superiors to take a camera with him to take pictures of Cuba for

showing at organizational meetings in NYC. Something similar had been done

previously by the head of the FPCC on his trip to Cuba in December 1962. The

note-taking in connection with the photos will be a device enabling Subject to

record intel information difficult to remember.

5. I briefed Subject during a two hour period using as a guide the attached

requirements outline, prepared with

SAS/ Intel/Requirements,

and Antia Potocki, SAS/CI/Sov-Sat.

1 naa also aiscussed Subject's mission to

Cuba with SAS/SO/Rodriguez and DC/SAS/EOB. I stressed, as did the FBI

case officer, that while fully exploiting his militia and other contacts for the

desired information, he must always be guided by security considerations.

After an agent role for three years, Subject expressed confidence in his ability le

a carryig out his mission successfully.

6. I should add that I was very cordially received at the NYC FBI office

and that Mr. Schwant was most cooperative. I referred to our memorandum

to his headquarters indicating that the Ageney hiss a sto d-vide prograxpressed

the hope that this might be only our first joint effort. He agreed wholeheartedly,

adding that he personally would be particularly happy to cooperate if Subject

informant should move permanently to Cuba and play the role of resident agent.

As soon as Subject returns from Cuba Mr. Schwant will let us know and arrange

for the debriefing.

1D5

Louis De Santi

SAS/CI/CP

Attachment: Herewith

SEGRET

Cx.r!

!? .:

1222

3/es

---

## Page 3

13-00000

(

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RE CORD

SUBJECT: AMSANTA Project

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Job #

File #

Volumes:

65-427/38 Box 7

19-6-73/3

5

1. Description:

Coverage of Castro Communist regime through use of

existing

; Communist Party and front penetration assets. File

was opened in December 1962.

2. Findings:

Memo for the Record dated 10 July 1963 by Louis

De Santi SAS/CI/CP

FBI informant Victor Thomas VICENTE, Puerto Ricar

citizen, who penetrated CP's in NY City left NY for Cuba Via

Mexico as guest of ICAP, Was debriefed by CIA staffer Lou

DeSanti upon return to U.s. in July-Aug 63. VICINIE stated

he had interviews with CASTRO and Che GUEVARA. (VICENTE

penetrated the FPCC, the Casa Cuba, and Jose Marti Club in

New York City. Page 127 of IG 1967 report mentions unnamed

Puerto Rican who claims he participated in Castro inspired

assassination plot in Dallas. Don't know 1& VICENIE could

be that individual.

Attachment:

Researcher: KGB

05

3. Checkod VICEN 73 202-131223.

LAD/JFK Task Force

IRI

---

## Page 4

13-00000

.

...

SECRET

Requirements Outline

1. Details of Cuban-Soviet agreements and Castro-Khrushchev under-

standings re:

a. Soviet economic aid

b. Soviet military presence

Co

Cuban rapprochement and posture vis-a-vis U. S.

d. Training of Cubans in Soviet bloc to man weapon systems under

Soviet command; question of whether Cubans to acquire command control

over these weapons systems.

e. How far and how fast is Castro to go in exporting violent revolution

in Latin America.

2. Demobilization of regular militia and what relation it has (if any) to the

take-over by Soviets of some internal security functions.

a. What part or percent of militia has been demobilized.

b. To what extent has civilian militia been disarmed of automatic

weapons.

c. Have Soviets actually taken over control of police stations in

certain cities or towns. Which cities.

d. Purposes behind demobilization and disarming of militia.

(1) To minimize resistance potential?

(2) Are Soviets telling Castro to put more people to work

on the farms and they will take care of internal security?

e. Reaction of milicianos to demobilization and disarming.

3. Hard information on missiles (all types) and Soviet troops.

(Differentiate between facts and propaganda for foreign and/or domestic con-

sumption.)

adia messe

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

- 2 -

...

4. Communism:

Secret existence of PSP

b. PURS - when First Congress to be held

c. Reactions of rank and file party members - and general public. -

toward Fidel and Soviet Union.

d. Economic conditions, popular support of regime especially in

provinces and outlying areas

e. Pro-Soviet or pro-Chicom alignments of party leaders or rank

and file.

5. Addresses of places where Subject is taken to attend meetings,

lectures, get instructions, etc. --- also, of his contacts and Communist

leaders.

6. ICAP, its role in this trip

a. Contacts and methods of arranging illegal trip in Mexico

- person in charge

- financing

- route

b. Arrival in Habana

(1) Who there to receive him

(2) Entry formalities; what papers or forms to fill out, etc.

(3) Guided tour or free to go any place on his own; lodging

arrangements, etc.

C. What Soviets, Sats, or foreign Communists does he meet

d. Take note of, and bring back if possible, any materials printed

in Soviet Bloc or Red China.

e. What use are Soviets/Cubans making of American defectors in

Cuba; what role are they playing.

SERTET

Excut:

Get tir

: ::!

---

