2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS AGT OF 1992

|

PROLLSNG ACTION
aeterp 608 mone
i °

Chief, Weetern Hemisphere Division xX w) motte, HOvED
io “ ; De OunineD one
tan ae) cnn
Leeper ae eet ; :
Chief of Station, WH/Miamt teen

CU rs
6 Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez (201-3

acrega aH QUIRED RATERS

Reference: UFAS-551, 20 May 1969

1. Following a review of Subject'y file, we believe
Headquarters has copies of all of our information, Attached
herewith is AMOT report CC-1224 dated 7 June 1965 which contains
extensive biographic information, You.are also referred to
HMMA-24080 dated 1] August 1964 for similar information,

2, The most recent AMOT information on VEGA {if an LITAMIL-3
report dated 23 October 1966 which states VEGA had returned to
Cuba from Mexico and had been appointed Director of International
Relations of the Cuban National Council] on Culture,

er eat
Glenda J. SIDEIKAS
Attachment: CC-1234 (h/s)
Distribution: : RETURN TO CIA
3 - Chiet, WHR wéett (need Background Use Only
Oo Not Reproduce
CS cory
aon Bitieemt 19 - piven beac! tag mum i
ee UFAA-1145 25 July 1969
ot a CTT a F
punt SECRET 201-334253: -



SRCRES

“wnome cae eAST oo=2394,
AGENT# = C~B8¥ and Crease. SAC 7-/ Py 7 oem 65.
DyEas | e230 Ares 2

REF; = -RE~390, cC~425.

SUBTECTs Hanvel Bugento VEGA Péres (alm “iarcos*). _
SOURCES s) Pedro ROI Ortega and Ramén PACING Curroa.”
REY o Your request dated 23 Oct 64. Os oF

1, the following information wav obtained trealpadre ROR |
Getoge of 525 ew loth Ave., Apt. 3, nian.) Pormar{Commazeiai | 7?
Representative of the Cuban Government accredited in Nexico. Graduate
of the School of Eepionage and Counter-Rapionage in Havena inf oe =)

nos,

O. BOurce met Manual Bugenie VEGA pares, eka “smrcos.*
fm the soath of Augwst or September 1961, In those Gaya, VEGA Péres
wae an instructor at the Officers Academy of the Castro kegine and
wae also teaching an intensive course on espionage and counter-aspionage
to the future agents of the Castro regine in Latin Aner ion.

%. WROA Péres fe white, wae born cizca 1919 in the City of
Bavana, 4e about $'10° tell, about 190 lbs., has dark brown hair,
fe eingls, and, socording to source, is o howocexwal. He is a close
ériond ef Henue) PEAEIRO Loeada, aka “Barba Boja.*

@. Aconsding te source, Foreign Service and prensa Latina
personne] greduated fram the School o¢ Acetcay of Baplenage. VEGA
pares axrived fm Kexfleoo us Cultural Attaché of the Cuban Embassy
in Mexico. Howevex, ag that tie there were teo eany Cultural Attachéa
Ge VEGA béres was appolpted ae Cuban Praga Attaché in Kaxico, ona of
VEGA Péxes' gunctieas wee to sat ae contabt ex liaison between the
foreign representatives of another country whe arrived in Metico and
the Castro regime.

4. MH 1062, VEGR Pires engaged in the purchase of photographic
equipment and files ta be dfetz ibuted together with the Communist
propaganda throughout Latin America. Between 4961 an@ 2962, VEGA Péres
wee the Second Chief of the Center of all Subversive, espionage asd
counter-espilonage activities in Keiloo, EP

2. the following infosuation was ebteined from the same couce
on Randa César CURNCA Konteto, whe fe sontioned tn paragraph $.0.
Of your requaek dated 23 Oct 44. dowes weported the following

ingermstiea Ga QUECA Rantetes

. @RCARE,..

7 O03
actin FI faarxe 3
a

De



ee

BRECARE® 7

c-1234, CB. 7 Jun 63 (cont.)
a. Ran6n Cérar CURNCA Montete was dstrodused te source

in Ravana by a man named (fnu) MONCEMAYOR who wee an Old menber
of the Spanish Communist Party. this HOF TEMAYOP, wae tha Directex
ef the Sepionaga School in Havana ured was in charge ©f placing
personnel in other countries, .

b. MONRTEMAYOR told source thet he would receive ordere in
Mexico from CURKCA Kontote, who tas the sole pexsou suthosised by the
Castro regime to give the instructions. CUEHCA wae doing very active
espionage and counter-espionags work in Karfce, end vas the man ia
charge og taking care of every important personsge whe passed through
Hex ico.

’

ce CUENCA Rantete ves born ciroa 1996, is about $*1) "tail
about 190 Ibs,, hao gather blond hair, is from Bavena, and woare
giseses constantly.

@. nm 1962, CURECA Montoto was noting es chief of the
Consulates im Veracruz, Tampico and Islam Mujeres, and, according to
source, these were key Consulates for Communist subversion. CUENMA
Rentote had close contact with @ brether-in=-lew of Ldeare CARDENAS,
former Mexican Preeident, who was @ peagent leader. "Through that
individual, he contmoted various pessant leagara from different sones
of the country, and CUSNCA Keontote made a trip through the interfox

of the country fex that purpose, OS.

8. the following information waz furniahed by(Pedro RDID Gxtega/
on Rogelio RODRIGUES LGpes, who fe santioned in paxagraph §.a. of your
Bequest dated 23 Gat 64¢

&, Ragelie RODRIQUEL Iépes wae feting im Mexico se Second
or third @eexetary of the Cuban Embaety in meulco, and enjoyed the
full congisence of tha parsoune2 attached to sold Bubassy. ROORIGUES
Lépexr was a very close tsfiend of the code clerk of the Embassy, and
used to stay fm the seom where tha code clerk deciphered the masenges
received, :

b, RODRIGUEZ Lopes is white, berm izes 1935, about 310°
tall, black haiz, weese glaases constantly dus to aight defect, und
was married in 1962 (cource does not remenhar the wife's moma).
According t# sources, RODRIQURE Lépan had bourgeois tastes — eoOure®
Goubts that ROUREZIUES Répes As & Conmunist.

rn 38 ease amet : =

4 :

pee dehy

APERTURE carn pe

eTIONS

CSD REPRODE


14-00000 , : : re

aacees
¢

J CC=1234, CB, 7 Jun 69 (cont.)
4. the following information was obtained ron eor ncaa)
VA Curros of 400 MW Gand Avw., Miami) Yormex Cubane Airlines official
in Bavane, who ia now working foz[Avfancd] mt ths Kiang International
Aixport. PACTIOS furnished the Mllowing infoxmetion on Carles Luis
ALFONSO Ruga, who is mentioned in pasagraph §.0. of your request dated
ad Oct 645

&. Carlos Tule ALPONSO Ruge was born circa 1924 in Havana,
white, abouts §°10° tall, about 170 los. He ds an educated man and
has an agile ming. Liked te live voll and used to practice sposte
in the Hixamx Yaoht Club in the City of Havana.

b. Prow 1930 to 1954, ALFONSO Ruga was Cubana Aislines
Traffic Supexvisox. From 1954 to 1959 he wag Btation Chief. Free
1959 to 1961 he wae Assistant of the Traffic Chief, end in 1961
he wag msde Cubana Airlines Traffie Chief in Bavana.

@. ALFONSO Ruga belonged to the #0 called congidential
personnel o€ the CCA (Cubana Airlines), who aid not heleng to the union.
In 1959, be joined the Castro regime and wore the militia uaiform in
Cubana Adglinea.

5. We have the following ¢ile txaces on Manuel Bugenio VEGA Pérez,
Ramén Césax CURECA Montete, Rogelio RODRIGUES Lépes and Casles Luis
ALFONSO Auge s ;

®. Banneh Be WIA Rocage Information reported on this person
fa BE-A97 Gated 30 Get 63, CC-423 Gated 1g Bev 64, and CC~619 dated
43 Ape 64. 7
| Yanuel Bea VAOR Péxens Traveled feeu Havana to Mexico
| Oo 1G Apr 64, DIF P-0-6a-167. (Souress Passengers List eroil@eetanas.} |
%. Senda CURVCR Hontotes Intermation repaxted on thie person |
i iy GC“460 Gated 28 Bee 63. Dea
| Banda cdaar CUBNca Mantetas Ciew data.)
| Loge Mouton fex Havana. Diplomatie wien $1229, 4/10/62.
Bet. BIS, Sheet 50321. (ourcee pavsengar list trou (es fonds .*),

att Keukes ca 16 dun 63. Diplomtio a Bef. 1091.
| Bhost 326l. (Gourees Pukenyex List tron[talenda.

| Lege Hundes em 9/24/62 for Navan, tetas”
G/7/62, isvued doi Bevan, (Seureee Pesconges tee area tanta. "))\

a3e
aRGRE YE



14-00000 - « [ee

. Be ull ae

bt -@RCABE
COn1334, CR, F Fun 68 {cont.)
A Traveled from Havana to Hexica om @ Oot 62. Cuban ypepe
il 61/207, diplomatic, (Souxces CCA passenger List.)
\ Arxived in Mexico on 10/9/62 fom Havenz with diplomatic
visa 01217, Gated 6/10/62, fesued in Havens. Aplomat. Raf. 3277,
1 Sheet $ogA. (Sources Paasenger list tron ee ends =)
Traveled from Havana to nexice on 17 Dec 63. PP-~DIP-D~)
: (#10). (Sources, Passengex List tzon Ci iGnas.*V)
[ Commdrotnt (comaallor ef tha Cuban Embassy in reo. 6
Chief o£ the 0-2 copionaye corps fn Mexico. (Boureas/ we Oza)
Oxtegs, authar of the hock "How tha Castro Spies Wark. 9/24/64.)
Rantn SAsac SURIEA, Form: Lieutenant. Witness in
Case 373/60 of the Capaguay Court of Instruction for the crim of
omberglenant and death threate. (Source: Official Gazette 9202, 18 Oct
| 2, page 12790.)
SEASK CUENCA Montetearn Cuban, 27 years 1d, Arrived in
isanfce on 17 Des 6} fa CCA flight 464. PP-0-63-553. Diplomatic vine
| @920 isaued by the Kaxican Embassy in Havana on 20 Sep 63. (Source:
CCA pesenger fet.)

Traveled grow naxicgete Havena on 1? Feb 64, DIP<PP-63/353.

| (Sources vassangex ifet fron(@te tanta. *))
©. }ega24o RODRIGUEZ Iéinune Bnfornation separted ow this parson

fo CC-$30, 28 May 64, fer a trip he made.

1 Rogelio ROVR Iau Wpeas (New data.)

kee Tenveled from Havana gs Haleo en 16 May 64. DIP-PPD/63/45.

i H (Gowees iaseanger List exoa('é& Lands. *))

: Gecond Seaxetary ef tha Cuban Bmbassy fa Matieo. traveled

8eu Baveia te Meadee by niz. (Bourcen BOY newspaper, 17 may 64, page 7.

“G. geles Yoke ALFONSO Ruger mgormeation Sepnsted on this person

| dn OC-G98 Gated 6 Jul 64, and Be-1649 dated 3% Sul 64. =

| Carles tude AISONRO Rugas (Rew data.)

‘draveled toa terice te Babana cn 26 Jun 68, PP~B-60-414.

| (Souseos Wassanger List.)
ENASCR IMAG BLEU: Gwaveles eon Meriso to Ravana on 3

Aug 64. GP-Ols-. (Suess OCA passenger Kfat.)

oe

a

me eee
. SSCaue 7

Scene er pe pe
a
Fl

