# 104-10243-10092

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10243-10092

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Cisnisas

¿ June 1981

MENORANDULI FOR THE RECORD

EUBJECI: Rel ariOn WiLL ManDiO RAY and the MRP

1. For background see my memorandum of li riay 1961 resortiaz as

ROY lODE DEBBLOS NiLA MANOLO RAY, RogeliO CIENEROS (Eugenio) asd ErDeslo

BITANCOURI. As miil be Bored in thas mercorandun, tizao!o protised lo

come uy wil a prospectus urtaio approximasely ten days timo, aller con-

sulting with bio leaders la Cuba.

1. On 1 June 1961 MI. BarBos called me to say lat it. Goostir had

beca visited by dir. Erresto BITANCOURI wao asked for immediase iipancial

support lor certain astipilos of the Mif ubich would run around slu. inu

dollars. Vir. Barnes asked me lo contact BEIANCOURT lor the pus: ose of:

ascerlaining what the lunda mere to be used for, exactly how much needed, ete.

I called BIANCOURI and be told me that I abould fel these decails from

OSNEROS (Eugenlo), who use saying at roon 549 al the liabblasion Hotel.

I called EugeRlo and nado 6'Ñdia 10I t6 and RaY DiBolo/Paj Adams is lae

JENnE HE USES WILL REY and CIANCIOSI LO Call upOn hiM.

He called on CISNEROS

si approximasaly 1815 boure l'Juno, and be informer. us chas be had urjess

MROd lOT PESOS fOT USE ln suppOrt oi bis taboiage and underground a rivirleo

in Cuba.

He sade bis poople were absolucly wilcout funda, seeded moro y for

long expendes, transportation, porchese of sabotage equipment, air lares los

couriero, and los sasibilal peoplo lo gel out of prison.

He said thas it was

son pastible for people sa buy their way ou of pileon by bribing one of the

may comrianio lemyers and judges. He tbought that 1u, coo or sù. oc

would meer immediato soods and loat sore sort of arrangemen should be made

8o receive luada - 34, 600 monebly or laeresboule - on a lixed and permaners

baBiB.

#e made no commitmons so Eugenlo. othor than to say rhas vo mould

pass hia plea along to she interested poopla. I reminded blm chas me bad acbod

Alma nod Manolo so prepare a plan lor consideralton and lues me vero selli

mailiag for has plan 1 sald l personally. doubled thas taylaing could be done

atll the plan das recAlveS ISOm RAY. He nald Manolo nas plasaint lo cane so

#abingion on she alternoon ol ¿June with tha plan, bus chas de binoell mao

having to retura so Miami immodiasely and ll vas vital he be ablo lo sate che

mandy with ilm, arrange la bilasal sor purchade of the pesos (as race al i a l a

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

money already in Cuba - dollars rould be delivered lo ownere of le pease who

• are is Miami. I told him 1 would call him la the moralag to lee bior kaos biw

chlage sload.

4. I diacussed our maellag wich CISNEROS wich Iracy Barnes on the

moralag of i June.

It was Iracy'e opinion, la which I hearilly concur. thal

we shoald pur ou no monoj whatsoever until se haro had a chance lo examine

Mianolo a plan and lo sudy just whas revercussione or ranifications there

would bo, polley-uise and osheraise, lo a decialon 10 abdial the AIRP

allaserally; ¿hat is, ouside the Council and presumably wilhou MIRO

koomlodgo or consent. Since RAY has withirawa his grous frora the Counchl

with a gren: deal of faníare, It is rosi unlikely tai MIRO sould loak kindly

On any adBlatance lo RÀY, cajecially since he leels he bao a rather firea

promise from the President 10 deal only through VIRO.

S. RAY, upon sITivel in Washington,

Fill presumsbly take his plan (along

With BETANCOURI) direcily to tir. Goodwin and I would also presusse that

Goodwin will pass li down to Iracy and TiAty lo 48. Ray Duboio, wio has

beca denolo's case olficer, is standing by la lãe evens he saould be needeá.

6. I perinally feel very arongly inzt we sbould do nothing to support the

plas, whatever it is, vatil no have received irom the white touse asd the

Department closs-cu, mequivocal poldcy guidance on the overall plas 1 also

Seal that now is the lime; Il we are so ing to eupjort lhe MIRP unilalerally, so

insort a nor-ollicial cut outi ilo the sperailoR. I would recommend ibas con-

adderacion le given to using MI. Liarty Pleper (a NAVE COLITaCE employee)

maids jut Hairy lo impérmicially ouiivó, sas a good business bead, is

Muess in Spantah (lived i8 years in Cuba), is cleared, followe directions,

comploraly bonees and tremendously canacientlous.: It would be harder so

find a botter person.

7. Also, I would like to poins out the security riske inherent in day arrange.

mense mith the RAY-BETANCOURI-CISNEROS trio. These fellows have had

ARBY ACCaRI to the White House and so the Departcoat, are notorious ior their

"planaod leaka': will probably presume all the Department olficiala they deal

wich are priny so the arrangement, and belore we know it the whole exilo

community mull be well amare last me are providiag financial and maserial

suppori so the RAY group. I ain sos arguing againes providlag such support.

bus am morely polming out the real parential for embarrassmens to us il the

maller la sos handled unita the gresions of precautione. I feel they bare bocomo

800 clonely identilled wich U.S. -olficialdom, Inclading suysall, ind thas the

planalbla denial aspecta, lo dase al icast, ara almoss 20s-ozlarens.

CE: A/DDP/A

DC/WH/&

[James A. Noell

SECICT

---

