Tiod-fo083-10260)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

> eASHIATION
SECRET/RYBAT

@&. PROCESSING ACTION

Chief, European Division (ATTN: ERKLAND - EYES ONLY)

No INDEXING REQUIRED

ee j oy ana osx
aw soe woos
io
ignter of Station; GO nicrosun
aR

RYBAT/MHCHAOS/Transmittal of Contact Report

Attachment: — H/W
Contact Report

Distribution:
3 = C/EUR, w/att

Put Ke. Chalom “4

Paul K, CHALEMSKY

ed is a contact report on cantiori July meeting with

_ w SPATOT SBT AND HONE Oat
(GEPA-90301 11 guly 1969
CASTOR oS FE ORE
_ SECRET/RYBAT

200-6-387/3 <4 ry



14-00000

CONTACT REPORT; +

PARTICIPANTS: PETUNIA; CHALEMSKY
PLACE & TIME :*
NEXT MEETING

Metro Dupleixs 8 July 1445; Cafe Datavia, 1445-1730

cafe Batavila, 1730, 9 suly HEvP UNCHED

1, Contact established, eventho PETUNIA was standing on the wrong side of the
retro station and got his part of the recogition phrases wrong. Explained that he
hed been busy on the 3rd and thought it better to stay where he was than to leave |
to meet CHALEMSKY, Had prepared notes on his contacts (had had initial difficulty
in finding anyone, finally called Susan George and get reintroduced into the circle).

2, Larry cox: Cox runs 4 heng-out in Pantin for deserters, SDS activists,
resisters "tne cetuals passing through ParisP address is 3, x. Gabrielle Jasserand
‘3 Pantin [Paris suburb -~ this address figured in an UNDERBID report on the
arrest of some deserters for possession of drugs]. Did not know how long this
house has been in operation; rent is 1200 frs/mo [$240,]. Cox spends a lot of
tine making the contributions circuit to raine money to pay for the house —~ mentioned
having got $100 from Sartre, some money from de Beauvoir (no figure mentioned) and
1500 frs from Katherine Deneuwa [movie actress]. Cox also gets ‘support from Resist
in the States and is now negotiating with Resist to get them to pick up the monthly
as a form of support. (No names meationed in this centext.) Also gets some ‘
nodest support from the Monthly Review, most of it in the form of books and
periodicals for their political use (and presumably, sales —- if possible). | Mike
Spiegel of National SDS was in town this lest year, Cox said (no date) and said he
would try to get then support from the States.

Cox himself first came to Paris to take French lessons prior to
assignment somewhere in Africa with one of. the church~identified international
voluntary service orgaiizations. After 6 mos of language, he decided that he wanted
to renain in Paris and proposed to his sponsors that he be allowéAto work here )
among deserters and draft resisters {the letter of proposal described this in social ~
work terms, but Cox said he didn't hide what he planned to do and in fatt let his
sponsors know; he didn't expect them to approve it). The group in effect turned
their heads to the political implications of Cox’ work, and agreed to let him stay
in Paris on salary ($240, month); they asked for monthly reports, which he has not
sent them, Of his $240, he coatéabutes $40 to the food budget of the house.

There are 20 deserters/resisters who live in the house, and
PETUSIA described them as a buach of apolitical bums. Most of the good, politically
minded deserters work in France to save money to buy false documentation and passage
to Canada, then leave. Those who remain behind aren't interested in politics and
aren't capable of much, ' From one girl who hangs out.with this group he got various
anecdotes of life among the deserters: one sends letters to Mao Tse-tung informing
him that 1000 men in Canada, 15,000 in Alaska and others in France who are preparing
to take over the US and are in training at the moment ("math class from.9=10 this
mocning") and asking Mao to send some divisions to help the invasion; another went -
on @ starvation diet and saved every penny he could find (to buy his way out of
France), then vent off and bought a monkey ($40); another always pulls a knife on
people, and threatons to go back into the Army if not allgwed to play his game.

From Cox, PETUNIA, learned that Philip Wagner is in Ganadé =~ he saved enough, or
was able to find someone to bankroll him, aad went to Canads. PETUNIA got the
impression thet this was under false doctrentation (which can be bought fox $300,),
(No names or hints of where one cen get this documentation.)

Everyone displays the usual paranoia on the subject of CIA. Larry
and others are positive that there is an agent in the house; they are very suspicious
of each other and play games tzying to trip each other up. Tney claim that within
24 hours after a deserter nas arrived in France, the Embassy knows everything. about
aim,

Cox has a Swiss fiancee who plans to join him soon in Paris; she
is studying educational psychology in Geneva with an u/i professor there who Cox
said was about to set off.2 xevotution in this field, They both want to go to the
States, and Cox talked about going there when she finishs in Geneva. He wants to
work in a factory and get involved in organizing within the movement. . Since he has
refused induction 3 timas, he expects legal action to be taken ggainst. him when he
returns (and wondered whether'they' would also get him for aiding and abetting
deseztion within the army). He described his major work here as dealing with
éocerters and resisters, trying to educate them and get then involved in the movement,
and in working with Gls in Germany, encouraging them to desert. A few GI's on R&R .
have stayed at the house in Pantin . j



14-00000

eo 2.7 ©

Deseribed life & times in Paris as tough, but getting a little
better now. Most of the deserters want to leave and none of those here are here
for political reasons. Cox made a trip to Sweden last winter (by microbus), and
net the ADC thera. Said nobody likes Sweden (lousy weather, no work, lousy
people eventho they get a warm reception).

1 2. BG |DUBINSKY:
former math prof at Tulane (got fired for taking part in some

protest —- on the racial issue?). Was in Warsaw earlier this summer for an
international mathematician's conference, came to Paris and plans go to
Cambridge and then to Canada where he has a job offer (in Montreal? While Fwy
in Warsaw, met a Polish woman (age 32, Andreajea B-—-; married, three children;
former funcationary of the PZPR but forced out because of Jewish origins), and

he is considering marrying her. She has asked him to come back to Warsaw and
live. He mentioned a strong possibility that he would be invited to teach or

do research at the Univ of Warsaw (apparently something of a center for higher
math), and said for personal and professional reasons he'd love to go — this
would be sometime around 1970/71, Thinks of living in the UK or Israel with

his new Polish wife after that; probably UK, Dubinsky was quasi-invited to

a meeting here with the Viets, which is why he in Paris. Before leaving

the States he got letters of introduction from PobertGreenbhere and Mel Rakck
Rothenbarg to Mme Than Van Pham. Dubinsky had been contac’ yy Dubinsky

about a meeting of mathematicians with the Viets ito discuss the state of

higher math in Vietnam and life in general" [this apparently said with a straight
facel], which he billed to PETUNIA as an apolitical meeting "to prepare for ©
Anerican-Viet relations after the war". Dubinsky was supposed to meet Greenblatt
in Paris, but he can't find himad can't find anyone who knows him...so he's
taken to sitting in cafes.in hopes Greenblatt with walk past! If Greenblatt

and the meeting don’t show up soon, he’s going to leave for Cambridge. He is
reluctant to contact the Viets directly despite the two letters of introduction
since he says he'd not give the time of day to anyone who just appeared at his
door -~ with or without letters. {His position was reinforced by Susan George,
who agreed; George added that she didn't know Than Van Pham,] ne

<a,

3. Martha BULTMAN: ie
“~~ Met on 20 June (address: 4, ave. Hoche; tel CAR 42-84). Said
her father John Hess had just written a book on De Gaulle and his foreign policy;
was rather proud of his father. Said "uy. father would be considered to be
extreme left in the US, but actually he is cautious if even a conservative in
many ways." Said her parents were zazkix very suspicious and had always told
always to be careful since you never could tell when someone works for the CIA,
Deseribed her father as having a tremendous amount of kmowsadge about a great
many things, which is reflected in his writing, He can easily argue an opposing
viewpoint, and does in social conversations for the fun of it, Whey travel a
good deal, using Paris as hote, Last year, her parents went to Amsterdam and
Switzerland and are planning to go to Amsterdam again. Hess started out in
Latin America, twenty or so years ago. At one time he worked in Cuba making
cigars or something (PETUNIA: that's a direct quote!); speaks Spanish perfectly.
Martha commented: “of course he is very sympathetic toward radical youth and the
revolutionary moverent in general, but has a critical spitit." He supposed to
be very strict about not imposing on people he knows, and would never send one
friend to contact another, Had dinner one night (apparently recently)? with
Mary McCarthy and husband (chez Eess). Coxmented KcCarthy is very bourgeoise;
her husband is quiet and looks like Clay Shaw. McCarthy feels that the NVNese
have handled their propaganda rather badly on the war, and Hess agreed (no |
elaboration). ji
Martha is sympathetic towards the deserters and resisters
in Paris, says there are 13 or 14 who are the real committed ones, but about
60 who are in the Paris ‘movement group’. McCarthy apparently has pretty
good contact with the movenent, and is at least in contact with some resisters;
said that she'd mentioned Cox! @ once.
Martha works for SDS in New Orleans, but is tired of their
rhetoric; she can't stand PLP people. Mentioned Sue Munaker (another PETUNIA
contact) had written a 40 page essay oa the ti Lib to

Martha knows

be published in some forthcoming beok oa the stud@St lef,
Dubinsky.



14-00000

+ Susan GEORGE:

Met Susan George on 24 June (address 42 r. du Cherche-llidi;
phone nuzber LIT 48-01)... Discussed banning of PACS last October: she said the
leader of the MDPL (Claude Bourdet) suggested that PACS members joinmd the MDEZ;
ther had been no little hesitation efter the French had tossed Croyell out but
people wera now gravitating toward the WPL which is composed of individuals
from almost every political grouping, The MDPL's basic issue is of course
Vietnam, though at blse the movement is committed to an anti~imperialist, anti-
capitalist position. George described it as a very flexible organization with
no structured leaders or administrative committees so ka it can avoid the
bureaucratic indecision of old PACS leadership groups., MDPL members are
developing "political consciousness” and have passed the point of regarding
the Vietnam war as just 2 "mistake"

George, herself, was working at the American College at in
the Registrar's office; said there were about a half dozen radicals in the
College, she knows them and is sympathetic tovard their efforts. Claims the
schools administrator is a "paranoic dictator", She resigned after oa
principal of the school accused her of “conspiratorial counseling".
done trenslating work, but pof prefers more “active” and less neindining"
jobs. She has received an advance from Beacon Press to write a book on
Azericens deserters in France, When PETUNIA asked her where he income really
coma from, she replied that she lives off her husband!

The tone of the conversation with her, PETUNIA commented, was
very pro-UNese; sha said they have offered "magnanimous gestures to work with
thefAherican people after the war is over", Feels that they are handling
the war ghd the negotiations brilliently. She frequently sees "her Vietnamese
friends", and they have told her they are very satisfied with the progress of
ithe struggle and its certain outcome. Mentioned that she would see her friends
the next day to get their reactions/epproval to a circular prepared for
distribution edvertising the 4 July meeting. Also said she had just talked
with her friends last night about the meeting. and was sure that they would
approve the circular.

Mise: she made a tape for Pacifica Corp on "the war and
resistance, you know..,". said that a Paris lew student wha is giving legal
help and draft counselling to resisters in Paris (1); name not mentioned.
seid that last year she was mostly tied up with PACS and didn't work with

»,"Mazxist Studay Groups". Plans to go to the US in August to visit her mother.

5. John Esk LNU: .
esexter from Army whom PETUNIA met in the Luxembourg by
chance, Ciained he was in security in the Army and was one of two who had
broken a Russian codes because he had.a German girlfriend and had gone off
for several weekends with her (AWOL), he was thrown in jail. Left about a
year ago, he said, and has been in France for 7 months. Has no money and
few possessions; is looking for ways to get $300 with which to buy papers to
go @o Canada where he wants to settle. White in France, he has been living
off rich old women. Was living in the ADC house in Pantin but got thrown
out because he was an acid~head and was bringing pot home. (PETUNIA commented - ©
you have to be pretty bad to get thrown out of that house.) Claimed to be
from Cleveland, originally. . Shid that some French movie actress puts up
the money for the deserters’ house and contributes to their funds, PETUNIA
described his as @ real crackpot end potentially dangerous. Has no place
to stay in Paris and is thinking ebout going south for a while; mentioned |
that “we” have a couple of colonies in Toulouse,

6. Maria JOLAS:
Met on 2 July. Joles asked about the movement in the States
and concluded that tha radicals can't afford to bicker like children (with
xeference to the SDS/2LP split. Said she thought the PL position with respect to

the NvNese and the war was ridiculous ~- made no other comments on the American
movenent.

Said that what happened to "Max" was regrettable, but that
his tacties were deplorable. He virtually snubbed his nose at the French
police,
Said that she felt the Anericari movement had largely forgotten
the war and that more work against the war was being done in Paris than in

the US, Mentioned the Paris movement was pretty well coordinated and ready
to go with coordinated demonstrations to time with those held in the US, last
fall, but the MOB simply failed to keep in touch with them, Said that this
was no fault of Dave Dexllinger's, whose credentials were impeccable, but he



does need an orgenizstional secretary behind him, Nevertheless, she lamented the
fect that many people from the old PACS were frightened away after the French
panned it (afraid of losing passports or being tossed out), and not everyone had
joined Bourdet's outfit,

7, Anti-Vietnem Meetings:

24 June, a group collected at Claude Bourdet's home to use his
eddzess file to send out invitations to the 4 July meeting. Bourdet's address
file comprises approximately 1,500 names and addresses; Bourdet commented that he
hed a separate file for French commmist party members, Working at the meeting
were Susan George, Dean Savage, Relph Fischer and Elizabeth LNU [Adler?]. Fischer
Scozga is a physics teacher at & Jr. College in Brooklyn; visiting Paris. Savage
is married to a Yugo&av girl; he writes for the Guardian, about 25 years old,
clean shaven, bright but cold. On others, see above.

On 3 July, another group collected to work up posters for the .
ueeting. Involved then were: Cox, Dubinsky, Elizebeth LNU, Susan George, Jolas,
@ deserter, a resister and 2 girls. No names for the latter four, PETUNIA
picked up the info that the deserter wes from Vietnam, he held a factory job,
his father is a good friend of Westuoreland's.

On 4 July, the meeting took place: it alternated speakers and
texts: one hour, someone read the names of American war dead; second hour,
someone read from texts provided by the Vietnamese, On the latter point, there
was 2 lest minute change of tactics by the Viets. The original idea had been
2 political wake for the American dead end for those in Vietnamese villages
bombed by the Americans, Thus: the names of the war dead and the names of
boubed villages would be reed out. At the last moment, the Viets told Susan
George that the names of bombed villeges had nom "political significance", and
instead they'd rather the mecting read aloud from mterial marked in red by
the Viets. George want along with the idea, though Jolas among others didn't
like it since it altered the purpose end impact of the meeting. Nonetheless,
the Viet alteration was accepted. Very few people attended the 4 July meeting;
PETUNIA wasn't impressed et all. Everyone signed two books open in’ the back
of the room: one called for an end to the war; a second was a péedge of support
to the Viets. Evergone signed, end the Viets took this book back with them,
Three Viets appeared during the day, sat quietly in the back of the room and
said little to anyone other than themselves, and left not long after they'd
arrived, One of the three returned that evening to collect the signature book.
After the meeting was over at midnight, everyone went their separate ways.

8. Julia Hervortinight
‘Anecdote from Dubinsky, Dubinsky said be first metzel$ée in
Ghena (where Dubinsky was for a while doing social work). While there he alco
met someone else he described as, at the tine, his best friend. Later he heard
fron UxtgbhéHerve that his friend had been the one who killed Richard Hright.

“Dubinsky did not mention the name, but said the episode 1s described in the

bdokraphy on Wright. He at first refused to believe Julia Herva's assertion
but later became convinced of it, His friend never denied the guilt, and

did admit to being a CIA agent. Wright was killed by the CIA because he had
just finished a manuscript'on the use of American blacks abroad by the 7
government.

9. Others
a. From his girlfriend, PETUNIA learned that Rene Mayer has
“dissppeared"; he has apparent$y left France and no one knows where he si.
b. The Lancaster family who: PETUNIA met last time is now in Brazil.
Ge Hsked me to check on Barrio — nobody answers at their phone number,
d.’ raised the problem of his hernia and draft status — see cable.
e, schedule agreed to: he'll be back on or about the 1st and will
let me know via postcard (innocuous and wish you were here variety, scribbled
signature) what date he'll be back, Site and time of meeting arranged.
£. Said he was about out of xoney; agreed to get together very
briefly the following day so I could give him soma money.

Paul. Ky CHALEMSKY
