# 104-10049-10217

## Page 1

AAAAC

1104-10049-1021

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TOTAL COPIES

22-4 PUN Ex

SECRET

Jend B 35076

STATE PRECEBENCE

IF . FILE

T 981395

£::767

PAGE 81

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

IN 944357

SECRET BEZZZBE JUN TO STAFF

CITE

TO: PRIDRITY DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI.

REFS:

(in 937052)

B.

SNOT SENT LASMIAMI; (IN 890367)

1:

("}

IPASSED STATION WRITTEN REPORT AND MADE

ERBAL REPORT. IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOWLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

N REF A CASE AND RESULTS. ACCORDING REPORT AND

.!" NATIONAL

IBERATION MOVEMENT IMLNI WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

IMER! SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINCE

AUGUST. 75.

NPLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD, PLOT HAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

UT IS SEPTEMBER 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LIFE

ATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

EPORT AND (' CLAIM THAT TWO AMERICANS. BROTHERS ROBERT AND

ESALO PATRICK HEMMING INO STATION TRACESS, WERE ALSO

NOÏVED WITH ZIMERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISTED HIM IN

COUTRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN 7O GUATEMALA

LLEGÄLLY IN SMALL AIRCRAFT. REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE

85) REQUESTS

Y LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

SECRET

D000871

---

## Page 2

13-00000

• SEC DISSEM BY

PER

NUNST NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

aUx

BY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THiS

ISSUING

OFFICE 15

PROMIBITED

IF CODY ISSUED SLOTTED

N UNIT

BY

AU

STAFF

RF . FILE

VR..

ON 1

N

F

T 981395

E1 A767

PAGE 02

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

IN 944357

A. 15 ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PEFERENTIAL TREATMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

25 PURCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW IRLEANS AND MIAMI.

?. IS HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR POSSIBLE USE IN

GUATEMALA.

DO REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HEMMING.

E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REQUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA. E-68 SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA ILLEGALLY

BUT ARRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HAS. -

EXPIRED AND HE THERE ILLEGALLY.

2.

recordalice oi denis alien

3.

enterina tess ado periodian te

---

## Page 3

13-00000

EC DISSEN BY,

"PER.

UNIt NOTIFIEO_

= COPY ISSUED SLOTTEO

UNIT

RF".

FILE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY !

RY

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN

ISSUING

OFFICE IS PROMISITED

STAFF

VR

N

981395

E:1.÷7

PAGE D3

TOR:9822427 JUN 76

IN 944357

Tu sein jede dere Stalien seit

5.

haut..

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SEC DISSEN BY_

PER

N UNIT NOTIFIED.

FF COPY ISMOLED. -

"Se BIn'sT

HF . FILE

10% o

T 981395

E1A767

6.

FILE:

io a

VR.

TOTA: COPIES

SECRET

RUY UY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THI:

ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITED

STAFF

PAGE 84=94

TUR•D824464 JUN TE

=......

'IN 944357

SE

CR

'ET;

---

