at PEER EEEEE insane sees ant at
10106-10421] | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 22h
eeceeretere cee 7 7
i s

ez-461

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY © 2 . |

cor ace ros we “no PAGE OF PAGES -

a

“TEL @ oo GO oO oO

SECRET : -" OGC SUBS: ITKIN, HERBERT
MeseAoe nAnbem WONCATOR Sees aae nave MUMDER
TELEPOUCH "  AFAM@= 4225 : a
O wom Dromore

H (aes : : E 2. IMPDET

Owns in a : CL BY: 034405

' TO: : RETURN TO CIA

: . jackground Use Only
SECRE 7, TELEPOUCH Do Not Reproduce

i -DISP_ No: Fanupunes

: Ts |
DATE Lb NOVEMBER 2573 Jo i
YO: CHILE

CHIEF OF STATION,

FROM: CHIEF, EAST ASIA DIVISION

} SUBJECT: MR. HERBERT ITKIN RAL ee et Mad pas
FYI ONLY: te meas |

REP IN YASHTHG~

2. ON GL NOVEHEER 1573 AR

TON, HAND CARRIED TO HOS A LETTER FROM AUSTRALIAN EJUSTICE A. R. MOFF-
ITT REQUESTING INFORMATION ON THE RELIAGILITY OF AR. HERBERT ITKIN
WHOM HE DESCRIBED AS A FORMER CIA AND FGI EMPLOYEE. THE FOLLOWING
PARAGRAPHS ARE THE GIST OF MR. MOFFITT'S LETTER. WHICH WAS ADDRESSED
f TO "MRe WILLIAM CROSEY’. {SIC} DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:
= A. MOFFITT HOLDS A COMMISSION TO INQUIRE INTO THE INFIL-
ETRATION OF ORGANIZED CRIMC INTO NEW SOUTH WALES. IT IS OF SUBSTANTIAL

LIMPORTANCE TO HIS INCUIRY THAT HE CONSIDER EVIDENCE GIVEN DURING A

DATE: COORDINATING OFFICERS > | IP USE ONLY
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER
‘CLASSIFICATION

SECRET
Spl 3

REPRODUCTION RY OTHER THAN THF ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIAITED



6 ORE NY GayBet seer nea.
cians: TELEPOUCH

o oOo. Oo Of.

9z-4c02

Odes aaa 9 66S Susy: reer

a asead HANDLING INDICATOR: are re @nour gisearc numoen

“". TELEROUCH = CPanuSaa287

O woe D m'none i ee
O rerm so: : : E 2 IMPDET
i O wens : CL BY: 034405

|
dd TEL tel,
L

COURT CASE IN ENGLAND IN JULY 1972 BY ITKIN.
8. IN HIS TESTIMONY IN ENGLAND MR- ITKIN CLAIMED TO HAVE
BEEN RECRUITED BY CIA IN AN “UNEDERCOVER CAPACITY" Ik ABOUT L954. HE

CLAIMED HE WAS BITH THE C.I-A- UNTIL MARCH L963 AT WHICH TINE BY SOME

SRANGENENT HE WORKED FOR 2OTH THE FBT AND CIAg UETAL JAQuaNT DIbS.

C. MOFFITT ASKS FOR INFORMATION ON THE STATUS OF MR. ITKIN
DURING THE YEARS L964 TO 1959 Seat FOR COPIES OF “ANY RELEVANT. AFFI-

\ ‘ bets

!

'

| DAVITS OF PERSONS IN AUTHORITY \IN THE - FBI -OR-CIA USED IN PROCEEDINGS” !
IN USA.” a aN
i D. HOFFITT NOTED THAT IN THE INTERESTS OF PRIVACY HE ROUT-

ED WIS LETTER VIA THE AUSTRALIAN-DIPLONATIC POUCH, ANP ASKED THAT THE

i REPLY BE RETURNED TO HIM BY THE AUSTRALIAN EMBASSY IN WASHINGTON.

| 2. NR. MOFFITT'S REQUEST WAS HANDLEGD BY THE OFFICE OF GENERAL

: COUNCIL {0GC} WHO FADE AVAILABLE FOR MR. MOFFITT COPIES OF THREE

: 4AFFIDAVITS CALL OF WITCH IN PUBLIC DOMAIN} RELEVANT TO HERBERT ITKIN

i LAND HIS AFFILIATION WITH THE. CIA. OGC CONCLUDED T EcPLY SY SAY-

ZING THAT, HERSERT ITKIN FURNISHED INFORMATION TO THE CIA OVER A PERTOD

i i

a L0OF MANY YEARS, BUT THAT HE WAS NOT SEAT TO ENGLAND TO COLLECT ANY
— Sanna STE ae
ORIG: w
UNIT:
EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER My
koa
| [Enos REFERENCE Fite NuMBER Cer. oe
aii a23



3lr/

ae ere

See

fee Fuessace wanpuina MORTON at :
~~ TELEPOUCH | oy

O worx OO re4noex

O rerunnro:

O rues

INFORMATION FOR CIA AND'HE DID NOT FURNISH THE CIA WITH ANY INFORMA-

(Fan WL2e5
22
E2

TION WHILE HE WAS IN ENGLAND.

3+ OGC'S REPLY YAS SENT TO AR. MOFFITT IN THE SAME CHANNELS HIS

REQUEST CAME IN.

U/S/C# VIA POUCH
*

Ee INPDET.d

IMPDET
CL BY: 3440S

H@S POUCHING COPIES AFFADAVITS, BOTH LETTERS.

THCODORE G. SHACKLEY. C/EA

COORDINATING OFFICERS

OSC MR. GREANY {IN DRAFT}

CI MR. ROCCA {GN DRAFT}

‘CLASSIFICATION

SEC R ET

[cRosS REFERENCE

etm G6 SEZ
2

IP USE ONLY

\
