# 104-10186-10051

## Page 1

104-10186-10051

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT "Berraba" (an s1las)

REPORT NO.

•DATE DISTR

CSC1-316/00804-65

17 February 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(page 9)

RETURN TO CIA

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington,

D. C.

8 July 196 Background Use Only

DATE ACQ. January 1965

Do Not Reproduce

MIS IS UNEVALUATEO INIORMATION LOVACI CLINOS ARE OHAIVE AMIANA, OF CONTEN IS TENTATIN ...

SOURCE

Se former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

• Is requested that the adoreesees take no action on any e

e individuals mentioned in the personality reports withou

first checking with this Agency.

1.

'Bernabe" 1s an apprentice on the Peruvian desk of th

eccion Sur (South American Section) in the Departamento d

Liberacion Nacional (National

Liberation Department - LN) of

the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI).

2.

-

"Bernabe" was born between 1940 and 1945, gils of medium

eight, weighs about 135 or 110 pounus

le has a white complexion and brown hai,and has a thin build.

Headquarters Comment

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on "Bernabe."

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

stin

STATE

IDIA T ARMY

REP CLYCLANT

THAT

CLUCSO A LEN'S

INSA

" OCR

I FBI 2

(Noto: flold distribution indiroted by """.)

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

2

1

HIL/SA/OBLI HE MADRI

HH/SALi-

1

CILIA

ALLREA

WILHAVE

RIDLAY

TOTAL WHI/SA & (1), WE 1 (1), CI 4, RID 1

LELBRLTLSHA

LX 2421

$O PROJECT (ALNUGV1)

CSC1-316/00304-65

COOFDIMATINO

RELEARNI

LIAISON *

---

