Woa-10072-1023:

022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

oe | “xo” hecees | eae Tenino | INITIALS
Ss (
(
. \S ee (
(
| Ot,
Seem earr ame an
i eset (pep Wel laa ‘
f S (Awl |
/ pans c
| Mie BE.
i | a
| i Q
\ i
i 1
| i 1
H T

I i : ' |
<— |

+ ee

; vt Fees 1
ee ! ! |

{ | |
12 i 1 |

: ; .
! i |

! |
is | i

{. | i !

He Se
ri | |
1S i a i | d,

1 | ! i I L I:
ete : i | |

' i |

17 7 7 TFILe TITLE |

. RID/FI : FebsedtVeteoede :

i] : i hd
- ‘= EE CE NOME FRY COE
oo AR IG a

i NBER : | oa (GD aera) ian
{OATE MICKOFILMES {OOCUMENT DATE t MENT Ju SEG H
i H : :
DIL A 8 me 04879

9323.

(én)



CLASSINCATION ~~ “Th PROCESSING ACH

SECRET

MARKED FOR IKOEXING
Chief, -WH/COG X__|wo woexine requineo
JOWLY QUALIFIED DESK
loan suoce iwoexin

cos ae ‘ chief.

cow. nun york |

qsiecr_“ryPT C/DOMOPS/AMROSE.

§ Avansnittal of tins
ACTION REQ REFERENCES bd
Action Required: FYI

MICROFILM

i. Transmitted herewith are the seit Glew) (supplied
by the local: LNERGO Cuban ea,

ee 6 ere

fa) Jor: ih acne CMUN Second
) Secréti ntonio es A Pet on (201~ ?-); and
Robert NANDEZ Vasqivez (20 = (20179133395 The latter two

‘are Advisors on-the Cuban UNGA Delegation; all three are
DGI officers.

(b) REYES; fees Galan (201-856466)),° Dele-

gation Advisor and DGI officer.

(c) REYES.

(a) REYES; MARTINEZ

(e) FERNANDEZ Vasquez. .

(£) FERNANDEZ, Pajon. )
sl peer
(g) Rober ONZALEZ Caso/(20]6-?-J, Cuban diplo-~
Pp.

matic courier.

(h) GONZALEZ Caso.

cpsaan) ...(i) GONZALEZ Caso.
: (Continued)

* Attachments:
As stated above

Distribution: in
2-WH/COG, w/atts., h/vr .

i » 2-WH/MEAMI, w/o atts.

7 _ 2 2=DO, w/o atts.

MICROFILMED
OCT S LiL-2
DOC. MICRO.

Ba pepe on oper
OCR” a Cory,

S AéL : i Mert o7 1980

“CBOSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

DNA YD : eae

17 October 1969

9723


CONTINUATION OF | Hiiaeest aaa ee SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DISPATCH oie le aie Fisonusrs

(3) An unknown Cuban diplomatic courier.

eer oriapsa PEREIRA Congdten (I= 48605),

CMUN First Secretary and DGI officer.

(2) Rogelie RODRIGUEZ Lopez ((eon=232005)}) cMUN

First. Secretary and DEI officer.

pr A ae)
'NEZ Padron (201-850853) , CMUN

(m) RODRIGUEZ.

{n) Florenti
Attache.

(0) JIMENEZ.
2. All of the photographs are labeled on the back.
3. Headquarters may wish to include some or all of the photographs,

particularly those of members of the Cuban Delegation to the XXIV UN
General Assembly, in the Mug Book.

4. Unfcrtunately, the local LNERGO office was not able to
photograph Ramon OROZA Naveran (201-805771), Delegation Advisor and
Chief of U.S. operdtions for the DGI, during his short stay here.

- Howard G. FIGALAN

