Voerss 225

76506
SIAN MADR QUIT BRIL RIOD GUEN

LATIN AMERICAX WEEXLY ERIEPS (NOFORN IN SLANTS) i
1. MEXICO-CUBA. MEXICO BEPORTEDLY HAS AGRERD TO SELL ITS RNTIRS--

1963 WHEAT SURPLUS OF 275,000 TONS TO SILVIO TRICERRI, THE THE LOCAL

PURCHASING AGENT FOR THE BLOC. TRICERRI, A PERONIST ARGESTINE NOW

OPRRATING OUT OF SUITZERLAND, HAS PREVIOUSLY KEGNERX BOUGHT FOOD IX.
| MREICO POR CASTRO, AND THE PROPOSED WHEAT PURCHASE MAY ALSO EE YOR CUDA.
THE SALE PRICE 18 ABOVE THE WORLD-MARKET PRICE BUT BELOW THE HIGH

DOMRSTIC PRICE PAID TO MEXICAN GROWERS EY THE MEXICAN GOVERNMEST PUR.

CHASING AGENCY. (CONF)
2. CosTa RICA: THE U8 DECISION TO SELL WHEAT TO THR SOVIET UNION

38 CAUSING MANY COSTA RICANS TO FAVOR RECONSIDERATION OF THEIR courrar's
NEGATIVE ATTITGDS YOUARD TRADE WITH COMMUNIST HATIONS, ACCORDING TO Gm
pT LI IN SAN JOSE. 4 RECENT EDITORIAL IN LA REPUBLICA, WHICH
GSGALLY SRFLECTS THE OPINION OF THE INCUMBENT RATIONAL LIGERATION PARTY,
ADYOCATED REVISING THE COUNTRY'S TRADE POLICY IN THIS RESPECT. ALSO,

OF COSTA RICA'S CHRONIC ECONOMIC DIFFICULTIES COULD EKCOURAGE A SHIFT

+ Pastme fee ret
SECRET



FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:

ANF

1
ea |
COMEUNISTS HAVE ERCENTLY AMPLIFIED THEIR ADVOCACY OF NOSE TRADE WITH
TUE “SOCIALIST COUNTBIES.* (Cony)

3. CENTRAL AMERICA: WHILE THE BOMDORAM BEGIUE CONTINUES TO SEEK

TT TO RETUMT TO AT LEAST A SEMELANCE OF DEMOCRATIC COVERNMEXT UNTIL

RLECTIONS CAN MB NALD. IT SEEMS QUESTIONAELE, HOURVER, THAT THE ESGIIK”
WILL FOLLOW STRICTLY CONSTITUTIONAL PROCEDURES BECAUSE TO DO 50 HIGHT.
MEAN INSTALLING A NEW PRESIDENT UNACCEPTAELE YO THE MILITARY. i

4. GUATEMALA: ANOTHER CLANDESTINE aEPORT OF COUP HLOTTING BY DIS- |
GRUWELED MILITARY RLEWENTS ASSERTS THAT THR CONSPIRATORS ARE BEABY TO .
MOVE AT ANY TIME, AND WILL USE THE PERTEXT TEAT A COMMUNIST COUP IS
MMINREY, THIS AVPRARS TO EE A WEAK PUETEXT IN VIEW GP YHE PERALTA
MRGIME'S STRONG ANTI-EXTEEMIAT MEASUEES WHICH HAVE THROWN TEE COMMUNISTS.
INTO DISORDER, POLICE FORCES West PLACHW‘oN ALEeT on 14 OcTOEER, wor rr
18 WOT CLEAR WHETHER THIS WAS PROMPTED BY RUMORS OF A COUP. f

$. PANAMA: FOREIGN MINISTER SOLIS SATB THAT HIS GOVERNMENT WILL,
10 TRE MRXT FEW WEEKS, AGAIN BEQUEST FORMAL NEGOTIATIONS WITH. THE UNITED
a ee ITs A

a
QELERSING OFFICER | AUTHER CICATING
OFreeee

ae SECEE SE 4
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN IME ISSLINS OFFICE 15 PROHIBITED, Cory No,



Owe

ve Sera 656
PRESTEENTIAL ELECTION SET WOR NEXT MAY, THE CHIART GOVERNMENT'S RAISING. d

OF THE AMAL SORE PRORLEM AT THIS TIME GERMS INTEKDED AS AN EFTORT To

KXEP THE INITIATIVE AWAY Paow ITS OPPONENTS ON THIS HIGHLY EMOTIONAL
T8808: SOLIS ADMITTED as wOCH BY SAYING THAT THE OPENING OF RECO.
TIATIONS WOULD "KEEP THE PANAMANIAN PUBLIC QUIET." (CONF)

6. BOMINICAN REPUBLIC: CONTIXUING POLITICAL ISOLATION AND RE_
PORTED CONNTERCOUP PLOTTING BY BOTH ITS OPPORENTS AND SCONE AVOWED SUP.
PORTERS ARE MAKING THE KEW GOVERNEENT'S FUTURE INCREASINGLY UNCERTAIN.

TRIOMVIRATE LEADER EWILIO DE LOS SANTOS 15 REPORTED TO BE
ANETOUS TO RESIGN ALLEGEDLY ERCAUSE OF HIS DISGUST WITH “SonprD ac-
TIVITIES OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES PARTICIPATING IN THE REGIEE.“« CIVILIAN
LEADERS AND ALITARY BACKERS OF THE NEW GOVERMENT ARE REFUSING TO
SRLIVQUIGH THRIR POWER TO JUAN CASASNOVAS, PRESIDENT OF THE DISSOLVED
SEMATE AND THXED IN PERSIDENTIAL SUCCESSION UNDER THE ABROGATED CoR-
STAPITION. WHO CLAIMS THAT A RECENT QUORUM OF THE DEPOSED CONGRESS

| SECNEGGLY LECTED 117 PRRSIDRRT. 1m KAS OREN SEEK TEWISPHERIC RE.

MS COGNITION as TR CONSTITUTIONAL PRESIDEKT.

7, RCUADOR TE: ECUADORBAN AREY CFFICERS ARE TAKING A 75~DAY
COGRAR AM 2SRAEL ON ACRICULTURAL APESYEVAATION Tm ECUADORRARS WIL:

SBecrar



Li FILE IN CS FILE NO.

from: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO +

10

INFO PAGE ae OF 8 cre om WS S06

SRPORTEDLY APPLY THE KWOULEDGE THEY GAIN TO THE AGRARIAN NEPORN PROGRAN
CONTEMPLATED BY THE GOVERNING JUNTA. SINCE ISRAEL AND ECUADOR SIGHED
A SHEE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AGUERMENT IN FEBRUARY, THE FORMER HAS PRO-
VIBES EYBQCLOGT EXPERTS AND A WESSION TOE XPLOGE MEANS OF STIMULATING
RCUADORRAN AGRICULTUMS AND YEDUBYRY. (CONT)

8. ECUADOR: ‘HE ACTING IEEE DIRECTOR OF THE POUXRFUL CONSERVA-
‘TIVE PARTY HAS SSIYERATED THE PARTY'S INTENTION TO WITHDRAW ITS SUPPORT
FROM THE GOVERNING MILITARY JUWTA, HE ADVOCATES THE EVENTUAL ESTAGLISE-
MENT OF A DICTATORSHIP, EITHER CIVILIAN O8 MILITARY. IM THIS CONNECTION,
ME MENTIONED THE KAME OF THE AMBITIOUS DGYENSE MINISTER, GEKERAL ADEELIO
MARAKJO, WHO HAS BREN CLOSE TO THE CONSERVATIVES. (COM)

9. VENEZUELA: THE MINSSTER OF DEFENSE FORESERS A BURTHER In-
CERASE IN TERRORIST ACTIVITIES. HE INTIMATED TO THE US AMBASSADOR OF
9 OCTOBER THAT SHE ARMY IS HAVING TROUKLE SUPPRESSING VIOLENCE LARGELY
BECAUSE OF THE GOVERNMENT'S PAST LAXNESS. HE WAS GLOOMY ABOUT THE
YOTURE AND CRITICAL OF THE GERERAL PUBLIC'S LACK OF COOPERATION. (CONF)

10, BOLIVIA. THE POLITICAL FORTUNES OF PRESIDENT VICTOR PAZ
RSTENSSONO, WHO WILL ARRIVE ON 22 OCTOBER FOR A TWO-DAY WASHINGTON VISIT,
RAVE 18 ESCKNT MONTHS STEADILY IMPROVED, AND HIS POSITION 189 NOW PROBAELY

2 AOTMENTICATING

SECRET : eae Orricee

AN 7



ge 76506
STRONGER THAN AT ANY TIME SINCE HIS ELECTION IN 1960. SINCE THE FIRST
OF THE ‘RAR, HE HAS SCORED Gains AT THE EXPENSE OF HIS PRINCIPAL OP.
POMENTS THE MOST POWERFUL OF WHOM STAND WELL TO THE LEFT OF HIS AD-
Mi. STRATION AND HAS SO FAR MANAGED TO MAINTAIN CONSISTENCY IN FIS
POLICIES
wy BRAZIL //PRESIDERT GOULART HAS SUFFERED TWO SERIOUS SETBACKS

oO
WGN. - THE OVERWHELIONG OPPOSITION & HIS REQUEST FOR A STATE OF
SYEGE WHICH FORCED HIM TO WITHDRAW i:1S REQUEST AND THE CONGRESSIONAL
VOTE EEFXEZEE AGAINST HIS AGRARTAN REFORM CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.

@OULART’S BACKTRACKING IN THE FACE OF THE CONGRESSIONAL OP-
POSIT)OM TO HIS REQUEST FOR A STATE OF SIEGE REPRESENTS A SERIOUS CLOW
TO HI8 RELATYONS WITH CONGRESS. THE FLOOR LEADER OF "1S OWN LABOR PARTY
18 RING REPLACED AS A BESULT OF PIS OPEN OPPOSITION TO THE REQUEST

el deta eS cere emer es
COAL FIGS 48-4 SERLONE pawcka op prescirtion . ae

eaaeaeN

DewechgT ic pawed P50: AGREE 2G 2A MEBT_OF As MeTpERR TO DSCUSS RM,
MEGRRSORGREAL LI 8 COMA ONET“T1-OF-FH-PRO--PED-DEPUTIES—9UP. -

SORTED SANILART-S. ALALALA POR ACENOMEET.?
Us
THE Bumasey . coments THAT CONGRESSIONAL SENTIMENT FOR

SECRET



NFO Pace -6= of 8

TMPEACHING OOULART HAS BEEN COMBIDERAELY STEENOTHENED EY SECENT EVERTS,
ALTHOUGH PREAAPS NOT TO THE POINT OF POSING AN IMMEDIATE THREAT TO HIN.

IN ARRIVING AT HIS CONCLUSION TO WITHDRAW HIS REQUEST FOR A STATE
OF BIRGE, QOULART TURNED TO HIS LEFTIST AROTHER-IN-LAY LEOMEL BRIZOLA |
YOR ADVICE, ACCORDING TO A USUALLY EELIABLE CLANDESTINE SOURCE. THEY
MSVORTEDLY AGEEXD THAT GOULART SHOULD TRRAT THEYXERKKE APPRALS FOR
WITHDRAWAL FROM VARIOUS GOVERNORS, MAYORS, AND STUDENT AND TRACHERS*
UNIONS AB A “VOTE OF CONFIDENCE” AND THAT GOULART SHOULD CONCENTRATE
ON SRGAINING THE SUPPORT OF THE "POPULAR FORCES"

PRO.COMMUNIST MIGUEL{ ARRAKS, GOVERNOR OF PERAAMEUCO, HAS
ALERADY RUBLICLY PROCLAIMED GOULART'S ACTION AS A “VICTORY FOR THE
PROGHESS:VE Foncns.”

ADDING TO GOULART’S WOES IS DISSATISFACTION IN THE MILITARY
ESTABLISHMENT OVER WAR MINISTER RIBEIRO'S HANDLING OF THE mequnayror
THE STATE OF S)EGE THE US ARMY ATTACHE HAS SEEN A LETTER FROM THE AREY
CHIEF OF STAFF TO R' RE) RO IN WHICH HF CASTIGATES TRE WAR MINISTER FOR
NOT BAV} ¥% DISCUSSED THE S'TUATION WITH MILITARY LEADERS PRIOR TO

URGING GOULART TO SEEK A STATE OF SIEGE //

SECRET



j
i
_ Pe escceias parted etaspziaae 4

ier vat sieier vonct FOSOG
12. BRazIL- A faa TRIAGO DANTAS, A MAJOR BRAZILIAN POLITICAL FIGUNS,
"AS TOLD TS AMBASSADOR GORDON THAT HE 18 NOSE PESSIMISTIC ADOUT BRAZIL
THAN AT ANY TIME’ SENCE GOULART CAME TO POWER TWO YEARS AGO.

PARTAS WHO WAS DOTH FORRIGH AND FINANCE MINISTER IN GOULART'S
CABINET, SA3D THAT WHILE PLEASED WITH THE § WITHDRAWAL OP THE STATE OF
SURGE REQUEST, HE ELT THAT THE EPISODE NAS FURTHER UNDERMLKED Con.
Sremeck 1m Tue VIABILITY OF THR reErExt INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE
Couwrey. HE ERLIEVES 'T HAS LAID THE BASIS FOR FURTHER POLARIZATION OF.
POLITICAL OPINION a

DANTAS THINKS THAT THE PRINCIPAL REASON GOULART WITHDERY THE
BEQUEST WAS THE MASSIVE OPPOSITION FROW THE

OF SIEGE MIGHT BE USED TO TAKE ACTION AGAINST THEY. (auc) //

13. vocofphv:s — vavia amerrca — MOMALIGHED STATES: //MEuERY
GF TIT¥?S ENTOURAGE CONSIDER THAT HIS RECENT VISITS To BRAZIL , CUILE,
AND BOLIVIA WERE FAILURES. ACCORDING TO A USUALLY BELIAELE CLANDESTINE
SOURCE. THEY WEI:E EOTREMELY BLRASED cY AIS EREExR MEEEIET RECEPTION ©
MBX1CO, HOWEVER APPARENTLY GECAUSE 3F THE Cons Insganty LARGER PUEL?C
TURNOUT. T1TO REPORTEDLY CAUSED SOME CONSTERNATION AMON DELEGATES

CRET



PEN INDEX
Co Felk ON CS BILE NO,

“Peon: GERECTOR
CONS,
INFCE

: aah
PSH INFO Pact ~8= oF 8 crt on 2GSTOG
FROM THE OMALGGHED STATES AT THE UN BY HIS REMARKS IN LATIN AMERICA

TER CONCEPT OF BLOCS AND NORALIGHED STATES HAS HEEN GUNERSBOED
BY. DIVISION OF THE WORLD INTO STATES WOREIWG FOR “REACEFUL CO.
miiscmnciall AED THOSE AGAINST If. //

14. THE LATIN AMERICAN PEER TRADE ASSOCIATION: THE LATIN
AMERICAN PERE TRADE ASSOCIATION (LAFTA) 18 CURMENTLY IN BEESION TO
NRCOTIATE A XNEX THIRD ROUND OF TARIFF REDUCTIONS ON INTEA-EEGIONAL |

“TRADE. THE Larra TREATY RAVISAGES THE ELIMINATION OF TARIVTS Ox
“SUBSTANTIALLY A°*." IRTRA-REGIOKAL MERE COMMERCE BY.1072 AND INDICATES
THAT EX THIS WILL EE A STEP QMUNARD THE EVENTUAL PORMATTON OF A
CONTINENTAL COMMON MARKET. THE PROSPECT HAS NOT ONLY STIREED THE
ITLAGIMATIONS OF ECONOMISTS AND BOSINESSMEN: IT HAS SPARKED THE INTEREST
OF POLITICAL LEADERS, WHO PERCEIVE POSSIELIITIES OF DEVEL OPING LAFTA
48 A WM. FORCE FOR EXTENDING LATIN AMERICAN INFLUENCE IN WORLD
SEREEXEXE COUNCILS

