“'404-10107-10084) [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }

= waa:

t Tae

RETURN TO CIA OGC 69-0399
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce 4 March 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

05
SUBJECT: (Chomas L. Roberts)

os
1.. Messrs. Ward Greene, Office of Security, (Kenneth

Heinoned, (LBGLOBE Case Officer, and I arrived in Frankfurt,
Germany, at 1100 hours, 49 February 1969, and were met by a
representative of the @rnkfurt Base) Mr, Greene and I then

were taken to a safehouse and Mr. (Heindden waited for Mr.
03 (Roberts) to arrive from Oakar/and then brought him to the

safehouse,, It had been agreed upon earlier that the debriefing

of Roberts) would not commence until Thursday morning; however,

Mr,, Geinonen)did discuss genera! (LDGLOBE matters and some

broad aspects of the Itkin problem with Qoberts) on the afternoon

of 19 February. Mr. Greene and I went tthe @rankfurt Base) (5-20

where we met with the Chief of Base) Mr. McManus, and Chief

of Security, Mr. Crawford. Z7

oa

2. It was decided to start the debriefing from Rorerts ')
earliest contact with the FBI, which occurre in Bosten some time
in 1950, and proceed chronologically coveriay Roberts) subsequent
move to New York gcity, then discuss his employment with the law
firm of(Delson, Levin and Gordon) which was followed in 1957 by
the formation of the law firm of (itkin, Roberts and Greenbaum) ex
Subsequently we discussed his employment with CIA, which
involved his disengagement from the New York law firm and
cover for his various trips to (Africa We repeatedly stressed
his contacts with Herbert Itkin over the years 1955 through 1967.

os
3. It was considered that @oberts)had a very difficult task
if he intended to conceal or deceive the Agency about his relation-
ships with Herbert Itkin. This conclusion was reached since
03 oberts) could not anticipate what information was available to
the debriefers?3 Roberts) was advised that Mr. Greene was from

Z\pd : eceaeia


volpd

oz

the Office of Security, which carri d with it the inference that
he had been privy to all the reports(Roberts)gave to the FBI.
Roberts was told that I had dealt with Mr. Hogan's office, the
New York District Attorney, and Mr. Morgenthau, the United
States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, and had
talked with Herbert Itkin personally 0} Roberts) was fully cooper-
ative during the entire debriefing and did not hesitate to discuss

any topics,

°.

4, We concluded that (Robortd has not been involved in any
of Itkin's illegal activities since Robert} has been an employee of
CIA, It is my opinion that Roberts)is 3h individual with a strong
sense of dedication to principles so long as they result in what he
considers a worthwhile sense of accomplishment. ,I think it is
significant to mention this assessment since Robert} does not give
the impression of having been motivated solely by monetary rewards
in any of his activities. This lack of concern for money was dis-
turbing during certain phases of the debriefing because oberts)o3
was rather vague about the amount of income he received from the
law firm of @tkin, Roberts and Greenbaum). He stated that he used
a drawing account and only took what was needed for his living
expenses?3(B obert3) gives the impression of being a proud individual
who is not prone to admit to his personal deficiencies. The
(LBGLOBE files contain several references to admonitions given
by station representatives to oberts)for non-achievement in the
operational field. Although Roberts)did not allude to these
admonitions voluntarily, hédid discuss them when asked.

e
5. It was our feeling that (Roberied did not discuss with
Herbert Itkin his employment with CIA, nor did he discuss with
Itkin his earlier reporting activities to the FBI.03(Roberts)was
not aware of Itkin's relationship to CIA and did not know of
Mario Brod's affiliation with CIA,

6. After the debriefing had been concluded, Qove rts) was
told of the possible exposure of his employment with CIA by
Itkin's defense counsel, F, Lee Bailey, should Itkin be tried in
the New York state court.?3(Roberts) appeared to be genuinely
disturbed and expressed bitter feelings toward Itkin since he

te


feels that such exposure could prevent him from performing
future operational assignments. He is enthusiastic about his
future assignment to (Pari and is hopeful that circumstances
will permit him to pursue his operational tasks in the very

near future,

iz Mz. (Robert) left Frankfurt for Dakar the night of
21 February and was told to continue with his disengagement
plans as his departure from Dakar had already,been announced
to his local contacts. It was suggested that(R oberts) take a boat oF
from Dakar to Marseille. After his arrival in Marseille, (Roberts)
was to proceed to Austria and take a ski vacation which is con-
sistent with earlier vacation plans when he traveled from Dakar
to Austria during the month of March for skiing in previous
years. Roberts has been instructed to remain in contact with

°2(LBGLOBE so that further instructions can be furnished him when

3(R

03 (Roberts) has been employed by CIA. Mr. Murphy appreciated

a firm estimate of future events with regard to the Itkin trial
can be decided.
27 (F4

8. On 24 February 1969, I discussed with Mr. David °3
Murphy, (Chief of Station, Pari, the possible exposure of (Roberts)
in the event Herbert, Itkin is tried in_ th ew York state court,
I explained how Roberts had been a(law’partne) of Itkin but as a
result of our debriefing in Frankfurt we had concluded that
oberts/ was not involved with illegal activities with Itkin since

being briefed on, the complicated case but indicated that he was
anxious for(Robefts)to arrive in Paris) for his operational assign-
ment in view of the priority need £37" his services in penetrating
certain leftist organizations. Mr. Murphy felt that if Headquarters
was considering a cooling off. period for (Roberts) of approximately
three or four months ‘urphy would hope that @obertoeoula

spend this time in zis) establishing himself with the target
community and not have any station contacts, Mr. Murphy
understands that this decision of necessity must be made at
Headquarters, but that he as Chiet éf the! Paris Station) does not
feel that circumstances as they exist today represent a compromise
of such magnitude that would preclude Roberts) operational assignment

to Paris) oF
4 / p ¥
Hee QHN K. G
cc: C/EurDi Agsjstant General 1
3 v
CCS/LPGLOBE
D/Security 30

C/CI/REA
