104-10123-10404| iH 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }

ae - ate : a) _@™ D, Younes Wy.

Fn Peesseeesesoeet | reer

. : Se PR

a ate

KX "SSC -0256-67

13 DEC 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Management Staff/DD/S&T

ol
SUBJECT : Coe aie for Office of Security
eneral Support Officers

1, On occasion of the required semi-annual review of, holders
of compartmented clearances, the SSC proposed and the Director of
Security approved the concept that the majority of professional security
officers at the Headquarters level could effectively perform all
necessary security support in the ®YE System within the limits of
a liberal interpretation of the access permitted by the(BYECOM)

aoe * 4
clearance as opposed to the individual project clearances, 2)

2. Accordingly, the review of OS holders of compartmented
a\ clearances indicates that 37 officers listed below should be granted the
°\ GyEcoM)clearance. This will permit us to debrief them of 148
individual @®YEMAN)\clearances. The Chief, Compartmented Information
Branch has beer requested to mark the CIB control records so as to

alert the SSC” ‘tr 1e wi n x certification
6f@YEMAN fe ie the Agency. The SSC with ~~

your cooperation will seek to insure that the BYECO! clearance,
does not serve as a barrier in the discharge of general (B YEMAN
security support duties. ee

3, Itis suggested that you endorse this memorandum in
approval of ed (BYECOM)for all individuals listed, This action will
serve the CIB as the necessary DD/S&T (BYECOM)authorization and
eliminate the need for 37 individual Form™2018a's. o[

wolf

! mrt |


Me

of
4. The list of OS personnel proposed for(BYECOM)

Identity Clearances Now Held
03 O, I, C, RH, HX, ZA
(BARBATI, Prosper) 3 oO, I
BUCCI, Frederick F, O, I, C, EP
BUNN, Leland E. O, I, C, HX, G, RH, EP
@uRTON, Robert L,)03 o4e
ARPENTIER, Patrick 0, I, C, G, EP
CARRICO, Hobart C. oc
COLE, Thomas L. O, I, C, RH, G, EP
‘FITCHETT, Kathryn A, Oo, 1c
LOYD, Lewis H.)o} Oo, I, C, RH, FM
GOTTSCHLING, Robert P.O, I, C, RH, EP, FM
GREENE, Ward K. O, I, C, RH, EP, FM
HART, Ramon R. I, RH, HX, FM
(HILDEBRAND, Audrey)°3 0, LC
JONES, Edwal 0, I, ©
KOTAPISH, Wm, R. 0, I, C, RH, HX, G, EP DOR, QUI
KUH, Richard E, oO, I
)o3 «0, I, C, RH, HX
Oo, 1
oO, I
CSHERRY, Curtis H, oO, ¢
MORETTI, John oO, I
MORONEY, Robert F. O, I, C, HX, EP
NOONAN, Robert oO, 1
PARR, Lawrence G, O, I, C, RH, HX
PHALEN, Charles S. O, I, C, HX, G, EP, DOR, QUI
(RAINES, John W)23 0, I, C, RH, FM
ROYER, William A, o, 1,¢
SHERIDAN, Arthur C. o4c ce
SHERRY, Edward JD03 0, I, C, RH, HX
HORTLEY, Michael J. Oo, 4 ¢
SOLIE, Bruce L. I
SWENDIMAN, Robert C. O16
(Topp, Orin #03 I i
2
pepe
SEGRE

ee


#- @

TRUE, Ralph O. 0, I, C, RH, HX, EP, FM
WILKINSON, William S.)y3 I
WRIGHT, James F. oy” O, I, C, RH, HX

2,
a V3

W. M. Knott
Chief, Special Security Center

APPROVED: 2

Lo) by
Ce COL

Harry. Murphy

?
Chief/SMS/DD/S&T

bier e rs
te

D

I heartily agree with this proposal but there is one item
which I feel might. be explored. When I was in the Special Security
Center we occasionally called on the then Chief of Personnel
Security Division, Mr. Steven Kuhn, Mr. Leland E. Bunn, or Mr. Ward
K. Greene to conduct defensive briefings. In the course of con-
ducting such briefings, I feel that it is possible that they might
not be able to give meaningful answers to questions propounded by
the persons being briefed. I would recommend that this matter be
discussed with Mr. Bunn, Mr. Greene, and Mr. Kotapish, successor
to Mr. Kuhn, prior to debriefing them of all operational access
approvals and giving them (@YECOMs .) :

9
Busan, Cue re kedeprsh fava Ce,

pruver Bere cold or Baring Deflnsive Quafernqee
fe discuss cheoranees tn Gebictantos Aepthe .
Father, He (Ryzcon) woull not preclude tens
from doussring nuh Gane

RT eg ee
ferlez

