# 104-10171-10223

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10171-10223

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

suguet 1260

Alcontions

SUBJEC?&

Has Tharpo

Unrosalred 5937

Problans no bardico.

lo inner "1l Grupo" arrivas in Hadco 1ta Mrst probion vill so to

sot up, ss soon as posalblo, a dally norapapar and a press relatIons offloo

2a To sucodad the crupo vill nood the asaistanco of station Madco la

Improving the public and polliscal climato In uhlon anti-fAsTRO pooplo can

Dork effoctInaly.

•3o A tromondous publicity drivo should do mado on tha urrival of 19a1

Gropol in Moxaço in order to crosto the propur laigo of the FiL In Verdoo

and throughout labls Inerica.

Do It la hopod that tro Huit and the Station offloors will be ablo to

support and gudio AlLA, who vall da producing nal ¡undo in Edio", utdon

1111 ostenalbly bo indepeiicat but actually vill bo a pro-fRo nerspapar.

AWLIA Will aloo be estong satirical, humorous radio espor for broadcasting

over Paddo Shan. jAny halp that can la elvas to this endaavor vill bo arcatty.

approciated.

DAVID A. PIULLIPS

C/w/h/Prop

Distributions

Orige & 1 = Addressoo

1 - 1183. Tharpo

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

do what are station support capabilitles so phot

a. Provision of unilateral taleitone taps/ riko Installation

ops data for FRI consumption.

ba Protoction (unilateral goon aquads) of overt Ill membero va

CASTRO agent executivo actions.

• [as Jatorallazent surrellanto to check on security and lorally

af overt/covert FRD sembers.

do Soloction of secure safe sites for housing of FRU (overt le covert

members) and selection of satisfactory office facility for overt

FRD members.

8. Based on Station afficors' Inouledge of Mexco CIty and environs,

solection of covert resting sites.

2. bhat aro Mordcan Goverasent capatilities in terma of protection or.

over! FRU members agalnst CASTRO agent executive action operallons?

3o What would bo the channel of corrunicitics botween the Statlan

and the BUNDER GrOUp representatives?.

Can the Station cormunication facilities (pouch and cable) be used for

secure FRD communications ietween the members in Mexico and those in

the U.s. and elsehhere?

NICA bullet faint

sir"

---

