# 104-10186-10043

## Page 1

104-10186-10043

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FORMATION RFPORT

INFORMATIONEREPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Cuba

Political Attitudes and

Affiliations

ir.

the Direccion

Cereral de Inteligercia (DGI)

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/02294-65

DATE DISTR

1 June 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE Of

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

1964

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

SOURCE

washington,

D.

(February 1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEMINITIVE APPRAISAL: ÓF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

SerVICe until April 1961.

1.

Although there are many members of the Direccion General de

Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence i DGI) who

appear intercsted in and favorable toward:the Communist Party,.

Source knows of only

persons who are actually members:

Saul 'GONZALEZ, alias"Denis"; Manuel VEGA Perez, alias

Vicra", and Felix SUAREZ, alias "Federico Sartlesteban"

StAREZ was a sort of political adviser in the DGI operations

departmerts, but insisted he was not a commissar, but, rather,

a person in

Although Source and the other officers

would tease SUAREZ by calling him "Comisario"

• SUAREZ greatly

resented the term and actually physically attacked Source for

Every Saturday morning at 8:30, SUAREZ held a

political indoctrination meeting which all personnel were

supposed to attend

Source was habitually late to these

sessions, and although he was given penalties for his obvious

disaffection, he never paid any attention to them.

personnel Source knew were perfectly willing to talk politics

among themselves but in a rather desultory way; the discussions

never went on very long.

2.

Apparently during 196%. there had been considerable sentiment

for Anibal ESCALANTE and his faction, the Partido Socialista

Popular (PSP), but in 1964 the PSP group was disrupted and

the real loyalty was to Fidol CASTRO rather than to the Party.

S-F'-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

5

4

3

l 0o6 00008-96

I FBI

2

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY

REPCINCLANT CINCSO =

"Nora: Field distribution indicoted by #*)

I NAVY

I& VS

I AlR

INSA

188068

I OCR

INFORMALIONSREPORT

WHE/CA

MERING

INFORMA FION REPORT

I3LLE BRITISH

20.2

IRID/AN

WHC WYE

TOTAL WH C 8 :), ME 1 Á1), CIA, RID I

LIAISON *

LX-2127;LX-2428

NP (AMNUG-1)

CSCI-316/02294-

COMMATINa RELENTE

REASS

4/20

---

