# 104-10308-10123

## Page 1

AAAAR

'104-10308-10123

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992/17

LASSIED MLOSAGE

•. .

DATE

"AUG 63

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM : UMWAVE

ACTION: SAS 8

INFO :

32

ROUTING

4.

Rph

AUG 2 $$55! 63

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

(COPY ISSUED TO TW AT 2135 1 AUG DD)

SOD 6, CA 2,

0D/1, AD/CI 2, AD/NE, RF 2.

PRIORITY

IN 91617

03

TDCS

PRITY DIR CITE WAVE 2086

INTEL TYPIC

POSSiBLy AMFRUNA-1?

SUPDATA: SOURCE AMMALF-2. SUBJ-SOURCE IS UNIDENTIFIED.

AMFAUNA-I RECEIVED À MESSAGE RECENTLY WHICH MENTIONED

POSSIBLE ATTEMPT TO ASSASSINATE FIDEL INVOLVING 5 MEN.

APPROVAL OF SOURCE DESCRIPTION USED BELOW REQUESIED. NO WAVE

TRACES (RENGO)

RID: NO INDEX. FILED $123X9L

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM

SUBJ: ASSASSINATION OF FIDEL CASTRO RUZ PLANNED

DOI: 23 JULY 1963

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (1 AUG 63)

UFG 3321

SOURCE: A LATIN AMERICAN DIPLOMAT WHOSE RELIABILITY HAS NOT

BEEN ESTABLISHED.

Y COMMENT:

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED

TO PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS BEEN

MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENDING

RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT..

want to

IDCS

PRECEDENICI

I ROUTINE

PRICFIT:

ELEASING IWO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

BASED ON:

LIAISON:

RCUP

‹CIUDEO FROM AUTOMATI

DOIVNGRADING AND

DECLASSESCANS LI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPERIT INGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ontains intormation

793 and

one allation themication an omanes to be undero sed brombinioo

of ino Esprovago lame, to. ii, USE Sir

any manner

to un unauthorned berto

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

(When Filled ITz).

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

REPORT NO. TDCS

DATE DISTR.

PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE AGO.

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

IN

91617

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS, IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

1. ON 23 JULY 1963 AN UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUAL SAID HE WAS

RAISING MONEY FOR THE PURCHASE OF MORE DYNAMITE TO USE IN THE

ASSASSINATION OF FIDEL CASTRO RUZ. HE SAID HE WAS ONE OF SIX

MEN PLANNING TO KILL FIDEL CASTRO RUZ. THE LEADER IS (RENGO) 06

(FALL), FORMERLY AN OFFICIAL OF THE CASTRO GOVERNMENT. (RENGO)06

BELIEVES HE WILL DIE OF CANCER WITHIN A YEAR. THE MEN HAVE SECURED

A SAND TRUCK AND HAVE FILLED IT WITH SCRAP IRON AND DYNAMITE

COVERED BY BOARDS WHICH ARE COVERED BY SAND.

2. ORIGINALLY THE MEN. PLANNED TO PLACE THE SAND TRUCK ON A

SIDE STREET RUNNING INTO THE MAIN STREET ALONG WHICH IT WAS

KNOWN THAT FIDEL WOULD DRIVE TO THE ZÓ JULY CEREMONIES. HOWEVER

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

GROUP I

SECRET

included from ourst err

dongradong and

STATELINR

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

DIA ARMPIACSI NAVY

AIR

JCS | SECDEF: NSA! NIC

LA1O

USIA, OCI

081

00

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRA/AM!

FORM

10-62

1K

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

---

## Page 3

13-00000-

(

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

IN

SECRET

(When Filled 1n)

TDCS

PAGE

SINCE WOMEN AND CHILDREN WOULD BE KILLED WHEN THE TRUCK WAS

DRIVEN FROM THE SIDE STREET THROUGH THRONGS OF ONLOOKERS AND INTO

THE PATH OF FIDEL'S CAR, THAT PLAN WAS DROPPED. AT AN UNSPECIFIED

FUTURE TIME (RENGO PLANS TO STAY WITH THE TRUCK AND TRIGGER THE

EXPLOSION WHEN FIDEL CASTRO GOES BY. THE OTHER FIVE PERSONS

WILL CLOSE IN AND SHOOT FIDEL CASTRO RUZ IF HE IS NOT KILLED BY

THE EXPLOSION.

3.: FIELD DISSEM: STATE (MIAMI)

91617

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATIOR - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS.

. :

---

