# 104-10186-10278

## Page 1

-00000

104-10186-10278

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION RERORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT AlÍredo MIRABAL DIAZ

REPORT NO:

CSCI-316/00535-64

DATE DIST 16 M

NO. PAGES 3

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Mashington, D.C.

DATE ACQ. AUguSt 1961

HELD REPORT NO.

THIS iS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCES

À former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964..

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing

personality information provided by the source and

includes supplemental information from the records

of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on ans

•of the individuals

mentioned in the personality reports

without

first checking.with this Agency.

Alfredo MIRABAL Diaz, pseudony "Federico," is the

Intelligence officer in Mexico City as of

Although Manuel VEGA is replacing MIRABAI

as chief, MIRABAL possibly will continue in Mexico. 1, 2,3, 1,5,6,7,;

Headquarters Comments

2.

active in the Partido Socialista Popular (Cuban Communist

Party - PSP) in the Province of Camaguey.

In the 12 April 1953,

issue of the publication Hoy

with Alfredo MIRABAL Diaz,

financial

secretary of the Sherwin Willians Noriers' Union, was

printed with reference to the worsers' demands.

3/PV

3

S

ECR E

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

DIA

ARMY

REP CINCLANT

(Nola: fiold distribution todicared by " #')

NAvY

AIR

CINCSO #

I&NS

NSA

1 AXXXX

I OCR

IFBI 3

CINFORMATION REBORIS

HINEORMATION REPORT

WI/SA/EOBILL WELS/R

CI/LLA

ITERCAD

W/SA/MOB W

HE/MADR

2-CL/R&A

3 JEKBRITISEL I

HIL/SALR

WHASE(BR1H1

!LX-1636

NO PROJECT (ANAEG/1)

-CSCI -316,04855-64

HU/SA/CI

RIDLAN

WHENAYE

trumarta.

TOTALE

WH/SA 7 (1),

WEI (2), CI 4,

RID !

11ra1s0n.

REERANNY

: 933:15

---

## Page 2

..

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-2-.

3.

Á usually rellable source in a report dated 29 June 1955,

stated that in September 1955, it sas called to the

atrention.of the Service de Inteligencia Militar

Military

Intelligence Service - SIM) that two brothers, Alfredo

MTRABAL Diaz and Rafael MIRABAl Diaz, employed by the.

Sherwin Williams Company of Cuba, had Marxist 1deas.

An.

Investigation revealcd that in August 1916, when Alfredo

MIRABAL was director of the Sindicato de Trabajadores

Azucareros del Central Stewart y sus Colonias (Union of

Sugar Workers of Central Stewart), he was arrested on a

charge of causing an illicit strike at the Central.

Оп.

the day of his arrest he was awarded a prize by the PSP

for having distinguished himself in the work done.

- 6n

1 October

1955, a SIM

agent interviewed Alfredo MIRABAL

and he (Alfredo) admitted to having been affiliated with

the PSp but denied being a Communist:

He said that he

belonged to the PSP merelyas à laborer, believing that

workers should belong to that Party.

The investigation

also disclosed that Alfredo MIRABAL was the "Delegate

Official and Management Organizations" (sic) of the

Sindicato de Trabajadores de la Fabrica de Pinturas

Sherwin Williams (Union of Sherwin Williams Workers).

He

was described as white, divorced, a native of Habana,

the son of Rogello and Sofia, and a resident of Calle &,

Number 302, Reparto Satista.

Another office of this Agency, in a report dated 28 May 1962,

stated that an untested source said that one (fnu) MIRABAL

was the chief of G-2 In Caibarien.

He was born in 1932,

is five feet five inches tall, and weighs 160 pounds.

5.

In September 1963, it was reported that Alfredo MIRABAL Diaz,

born in 1923,

arrived in Mexico as the Cuban Consul on

2 September 1963.

Reportedly, he did not know his job as

Consul and was held in contempt by his staff for his

incompetence.

6.

In October 1963, it was reported that the aunt of Alfredo

MIRABAL Diaz stated that Alfredo MIRABAL had been appointed

to the Cuban Consulate In Mexico.

He was reportedly an

old-line Communist under BATISTA and he was probably

trained in Moscow.

7. A Cuban businessman in Mexico City with good contacts in the

Cuban Embassy and who has reported reliable information for

about two years stated in a report dated 17 February 1964,

that on 23 January 1964 Alfredo M. MIRABAL Diaz, Consular

Attache of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City, sent the following

cable to the Administration Section of the Cuban Ministry

of Foreign Relations:

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 3

4-00000

SICBBT

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

"It is urgently necessary thät you send this Consulate's

allotment for the months of December and Januajy..

"It 1s 1n

possible to operate

I consider it absolutely

Imperative to increase the allotuent beginning

Today I an pouching a projected estimate for this year.

urge your rapid attentlon."

8. A Cuban with contacts anong Cuben diplomats stated, In a report

dated 12 June 1964, that Alfredo MIRABAL Diaz,

Cuban Consulate In Mexico City, was born about 1929, hag

married twice, and has a very poor

education.. All his life he

has been a Communist and everyone in his family is Communist.

He belongs to the syndicate of the tin factory in Luyano, Habana,

where both he and his brothers worked for years.

He al80 worked

at the "Celbe del Agua Institute" for sone time.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

