# 104-10216-10268

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10216-10268

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

THIS COPY IS NOT

• FOR BELEASE TA coc

1 • SECRET

SCASUR MIT NO, 15000

REPROONCTION PROHIBITEO

(PARIS ]

ACTION

# PC/UH/SA 3

TWO

VR, FILE, DD8

-53

FLES di

<03

SOVANCE CORY

→ SLOTTEO I TUACO.

7017

PET 18

SI

SEC

SECRET A91727Z

DIR INFO ALGI CITE PARI 8358 BINGHA: ACTING

TYPIC AYLASH

iODEC 61H39499

PEF DIR 62462

1O ALL CUSAN TROOPS ARE OUT O5 ALGERIA. TO AÑLASH ONE KNOLEDGE

NO CUEA TROOPS HAVE BEER SENT TO CONGO OR WORTH VISTHAN. CMDTS

EFIGZHIO AJEIJEIRAS DELGADO IN LATE 63 COMANDED CUBA! TROOPS ALGERIA.

WHEN AMZIJEIRAS RETURNED CUBA, CADTE ALDO SANTA:ASIA, CHIEF CUBAN

A3M03, REMAINED I! COMMAND. IN LATE 63 CUSANS HAD OYE BRIGADE OF

ARMOR AND TWO GROUPS OF ARTILLERY IN ALGERIA. WHE TROOPS LEFT,

EQUIPNENT WAS TURNED OVER TO ALGERIANS. THIS INCLUDED FORTY TANKS.

ESTI BELLA REPORTSDLY PERSONALLY KAISTAINS CONTROL OF THE ARIOR BRIGADE

AND THO GROUPS OF ARTILLERY TRAINED EY CUSANS SEFORE THEY LEFT.

2. CHDIE Ci

#FERNANDEZ MEL, CHISF OF STAFE YESTERN ARBLA

HEADED CUEAS DELEGATIO: TO 1 HOVENEER ALSERIAN INDEPENDENGE

DELEGATIOUS. HE RETURNED CUEA. FERHANDEZ IS MOT CONMUNIST,

FOUGHT VITH CHE GUEVARA'S COLUMS IN "CUNTATIS, STILL CLOSE TO CAS,

LIVED IN CHE'S HORE USTIL APPROX THO YEARS ÄGO, NOT IN AGREENENT WITH

WHAT IS HAPPENING CUBA BUT LOYAL TO FIDEL.

SUSJECT IS MEDICAL DOCTOR,

of for

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET -

IN 39492 PAGE 2.

GOOD DECENT TYPE OF PERSO OF VALUE TO REGIÑE. CLOSE FRISCO AULIE!

ONE AND VERY FRIENOLY VITH RAUL DIAZ-ARGUELLES GARCIA, CHLEF ARTILLERY

WESTERN ARMY. SEEN FREQUE:TLY WITH SUILLERIO GARGLA FRIAS, CO VESTERY

ARMY, THIS RELATIONSHIP AMLASH ONE BELIEVES IS MORE OFFICIAL THAN

PERSONAL.

SEC REIL

/1.1

*DISSEN

PER RYBAT TYPIL YOBITE CABLES.

SECRET

==..

---

