# 104-10071-10074

## Page 1

1104-10071-10074-

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

TERNAL

UjE ONLY

CON SENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION

NO

C/E/G. Michael J. Rubino

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

Red

9256

DATE

16 April 1968

DATE

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11

12.

13.

14.

15.

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number each commeni to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across columm after each commoni.)

_C/E/G

15 ap

DC/SUR

іг арі пр

C/EUR

1G APR 1363//

ADDP

• 3 6 APR 1968

DDP

DOẾI

DCI

8 6 APR 1963

FORM

3-07

SIt USE PREVIOU:

EDITION:

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

Signature

1534

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

D08-1K5

21

16 APR 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA

: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT

Tentative Plans of Senator Robert Kennedy

to Visit West Berlin on 1 May

REFERENCE

: EGBA-86312, dated 12: April 1968

1. This memorandum is for your information.

2. We have just been advised by Berlin Base that

Senator Robert Kennedy may plan to speak at the 1 May rally

in West Berlin.

3.

The Press Chief of the West Berlin Senate, Peter

told a CIA staff officer that Dr. Martin Luther King,

Jy. had originally been scheduled to appear at the 1 May

rally.

After King's assassination the Berlin Senate authorized

the Roy Bernard Public Relations Agency of New York to invite

Senator Kennedy as a replacement speaker. According to Herz,

Senator Kennedy informed the Bernard Agency that he wanted a

written invitation, which has been issued.

4. Herz also mentioned that the U.S. Mission to Berlin

had been informed of these plans but our Berlin Base has seen

no mention of the matter in Mission traffic.

5.

The annual May. Day rally in Berlin has become a

tradition.

It takes place in a large field in front of the

restored Reichstag building,

which is immediately adjacent to

the sector border

between East and West Berlin near the

Brandenburg Gate.

1.N.

CerT

John L. Hart

Chief

European Division

CC: DDCI

7534

---

