# 104-10169-10122

## Page 1

14.00000

104-10169-10122

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONFICENTIL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 23..D.C.

1-лі

XI7RZ-12551

28 August 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR : State, DIA, Army, Navy, Air Force and FBI

Members, Inter: /ency Defector Committee

SUBJECT

.: Information Obtained from DS-2137

1. Attached, for your iniormation, is a list of reports of

general interest obtained from DS-2137 during his CE/CI inter -

rogation which were published in the CSCI meniorandum form.

2. The attached list represents thuse reports prepared

Khrough 16 August 1962 with dissemination as indicated.

3. You will be provided, on a perioric basis, the same

information on future reports which may be obtained and pub-

Iished in this same manner from this source.

03

Chairman

Interagency Defector Commiree

Attachment

CS. COPY

CONFIDENTIAL

Ene

GROUP I

darluted l em auirmalle

downgradiry nial

doelasstreatron

201-594455

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only 1=J7

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CSCI Resorts 1507. DS-2:37

Number

CSCI-3/770,863

CS.

Nant

Sübject

KGB Chairman and Depusies

CSC1-3/771,069

CSCI-3/771,484

CSCI-3/771,488

CSCI-3/771,511

Structure of the KGB aad ils

First and Second Chici

Rolatioassip betwees the KGB

and tha Cearral Coromister of

the Cammunisi Party as to

¡Sovior Unian

Preliminary Estimare of KGB

Personnel Strength

Waltor ULBRICHT

CSC1-3/771,512

Sorter Intelligence Budget

CSCI-3/771, 489

CSCI-3/771,513

CSCI-3/771,520

CSCI-3/771,521

Former KGB Inspectarare

and Special Inspoctoraio

KGB Emigre Dopartn.unt

strengtli

Mission of the KGB First

Chief Diructorato Lforciga

directoraig/

Relationship of the Adminis -

trative Organs Dopartment of

tha Sonirei Conimittie. wille

the KGD

'CONFIDE

Eue lto XAAZ-12581

L

23 Angus: 1802

Recipients.

SeaLe(OS), DIA, Army

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI,

ADCI

DIA, State (OS); Army

Navy. OSI/USAF. PiSA,

FBI, ADGI

State (OS), DIA, Army,

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI,

ADCI

State (O5), DIA, Army,

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI,

ADCI

State (O5), DIA, Army

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI,

ADCI

Stare (OS), DIA, Army

OSL/USAF, Navy, FBI,

ADCI

State (OS), DIA, Army

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI,

ADCI

State (OS), DIA, ArMY

FBI, OSI/USAF, Navy

ADOI

State (OS), DIA, Army,

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI,

ADCI

State (OS), DIA, Army

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI,

ADGI

49788

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Number

CSCI-3/771,528

CSCI-3/771,529

CSC1-3/771,530

CSCI-3/771,550

CSCI-3/771,553

CSCI-3/771,623

CSCI-3/771,624

CSC1-3/771,773

CSCI-3/771,776

CSCI-3/771,607

COMSDATHE

Subject

KGB Baltic Operations

KGB Participation in World

Youch Festivals

Bogdan STASHINSKIY

Role of the Central Com-

mittee of the CPSU in

Intelligence 'Flaps"

Tasks of a Counterintelligence

Officer in a KGB Residency

Relationship Between the

KGB and the GRU

Political Role of the KGB

Kelationship ot the KGB with

Othar Soviet Government

Organs

KGB Relations With Gommunist

Parties in tho Woet

The KGB Colloglum

Recipients

State (OS), DIA, Army

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI,

• ADCI

Stare (OS), DIA, Army

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI,

ADCI

State (OS), DIA, Army.

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI,

ADCI

State (OS), DIA, Army,

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI,

ADCI

State (OS), DIA, Army

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI.

ADCI

State (OS), DIA, Army,

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI,

ADCI

State (OS), DIA, Army,

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI

ADCI

State (OS), DIA, Army,

OSI/USAF, Navy, FBI

ADCI

State (OS), DIA, Army:

OST/USAF, Navy, FBI

ANCI

Stato (OS), DIA, Army

FBi, Sinte (ian), OS/ÜSAF,

AFCI, USAF, Navy, ADGI

COMEJSSTHAL

201-99788

20129485

---

## Page 4

14-00000

COMMENTAL

CSCI-3/771,547

CSCI-3/771,599

CSCI-3/771,784

CSCI-3/771,706

KGB First Chief Directorate

Departueat "D"

State (OS), DIA, Army,

FBI, State (1&R), OSI/USAF.

AFCIN/USAF, Navy, ADCI

KGB "Executive Action"

Department of the-First Chief

Directorate

State (OS), DIA, Army

FBI, State (1&R), OSI/USAF.

AFCIN/USAF, Navy, ADCI

Functions of the Chief and

Deputy Chiefs of the First Chief

Directosate of the KGB

State (OS), DIA, Army

FBI, State (1&R), OSI/USAF

AFCIN/USAF, Navy, ADCI

DS-2137 Comments on KGB

State (OS), DI', Army

Technical Surveillance Capa-

FBI, State (I&R), OSI/USAF,

bilities against Foreign Visitors

AFCIN/USAF, Navy, ADCI

3

701-294855

---

