‘104-10107-10183| [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

( {

ons

‘io from 20 June to 10 July 1956 the
2 to eight pehetratioas of e2 unprecedented
in a period of only eight deys.
5 the only basis of judging the
is important because it is cli

¥, S0ie tenteti

@ conclusioas msy b= dram from
2s follows:

fact that these missions came es e surprise,
ected. This is clear evidence that their

feet.

~ 236



So-02164-58

2. By 5 duly 1956, the fourth flight, the USSR was awere
of the purpose of the missions ana were taking counter action.
ositive action was the standdown of civil flights while the
oa eireraft was over the USSR, and 2 second action vhich is
‘ed related is the moving of MIG-19 aircraft into East
many and Poland on 7 July 1956. Also HIG-19's were moved
inte Hungary at about this time. :

3. The performance of the Soviet systen on the 5 July mission,
201k, was indeed curious. While the action evident trot COMET >
is zoz clear an explanation which appears to fit the known facts
is offered as follows: As a result of the previous missions, the
Soviets had concluded the essential facts concerning the missions.
i.e.) that they vere for reconnaissance, that iney flew above,
feet, and that a penetration as deep as Moscow wes possible. ‘They
probably surmised that the 5 July mission ves headed for Moscow wren
track appeared on a northeasterly heading. Te loss of the ©
© when it entered Soviets territory was provably deliberate end’
© 'reé herring" track returning to the vest was either a. dodge
aience to avoid broadcasting e track for all the systen |
that-2 "hostile or intruder" wes ecuing over Moscow with no
S aveilable tostop it. Tais idea is supported by the use
@ roid muber assigned in the region just beyona the point
© the track hed been "lost". In addition, the treck vas not
eled "hostile or intruder" when it ves broadcast efter it
Bad gessed beyond Moscow. The reporting of the treck waen it dia
cer was only by Moscoyv and it has been suggested that other iy
ms had been instructed not to brosdeass the track. Further, it may
not be a coincidence that the heigat brcadcast was almost
ctly half of the true altitude of the mission aircraft, but on
‘ext uissions, four days later, the altitude reporting vas sg
consistently above feet. - -
4. By 9 duly 1956, in addition to the evident recognition of
© great height of the mission flights, trecking was better and
Rexal the performonce of the werning systen was mich improved.

ch ot

2:

The next day, 10 July 1956, the Soviet air defense warning }
Sed closed a 3000 mile track with only two short periods of
Susion or track loss. Altituds reporting ves over | feet

n one plot passed Waich was only 100 feet off target.

Toe first cight missions proved that the air defense varning
is deployed in depth. | This was evident fran both the continul ty
‘t forcefully from the ELIT dste collected. Some
cepts of Soviet Bloc rears operating in the 3000 ma/s hand vara
nea by vroject EMINT as follows

Other 30. These numbers-cannoc oe equated to Ins
radar seta since the sane reder nay be intercepted more than
were located, including new sites. Sone
onal, signals were identified out availeble information
mai determination of locetion so that it must be con

2 Signals include both kn. and new sites. Because
er et and the Soviet
requencies the totel

et least double the numb

2 2h =

TOP SECRET — EIDER—CHESS


SC-02164-58

7- Confusion and track loss seemed to be related to the i
© Of large munbers of fighters altaouga the saturation point
not been determined because of insufficient date.

i

8._The question of radars for height finding, the capabilities.
[in this role, the introductioa of ROCK CAKEs and later

Lomments are ai in enother section. It is believed,

i r, thet ons were a catalyst in the introduction

of ROCK CAKES. aae

TOP SECRET — CIDER—CHESS

