# 104-10110-10710

## Page 1

104-10110-10710

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSI

ATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

a JFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

Vui

hung

-- See

Kim Fight

DATE

10-11

10-11

10 • 11-61

INITIALS

Labianimo

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarkes Tue attachia is ust

- Can pile on to

balerial wide cares fTtai

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

Sleieu

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAE

FoRM Ma 237 Use previous editions

10/10/67

SECRET

(40)

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ас чі яво

and feig's

cu Ceda

in sole do Jou want dis

to er tip Brown

...i...

wt:2016

• .

APINONED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA BISTORICAL SEMEN PROGRAM

---

## Page 3

cor

Thr s

Chiel, SRS

DC/SRS and C/ ETOB/SBS

M. D. Stevens

PEREZ, Ralph

8444 260

18 October 1967

paragraph 2 of the attached memorandum on Richard S. GARS

fos soatine exploitation an a source of foreigt positive intellígence.

..

On 28 Jane 1963, Security advised DCS regarding an ua.

sabatantlated report that Subject sabseribed to the Communist

ublicatios 'VOZ de MEXICO" and was a Communiot leader 1

914, He, reportedly wan a leader al the Communlet socienl 1

the Chicago Mexican colony. According to a potation dated 6/26/63.

this information was "considered resolved in Sabjoct' a favor through

1959 B.I. conductod on Sabject's sister." DOS WAS DisO lalormed

Rhat Sabjoct's sister (Maria Gaadalupe GALLARDO, with varione

atas) was reported by sellablo informants to have been a memaber

of the Mexicas Commlasion of the Communiat Party la 1946 and a

card carrying Communist Party member in 1951 Daring an inter-

view is 1954, she admitted attending meetlage of the Communiat

Party and a Commanist Party school daring the mid-1930's la Chicago

but denled havlag altended Communiat Party affaire subsequent to 1945,

os to ever having been a member of the Commandot Pasty.

3. Tilth reference to Galllermo ESCOBARÓNd6

whom Sabject

(PEREZ) 18 said to have given Horace SPEED III, 4199 4992) 28=

lead, de may of may not be Gulllermo (ESCOBAR) MARTINEZ, akB: :

Guillermo (MARTINEZ) ESCOBAR, 1444 260, a MerICan Citisen Wie

In October 1956 was lasued an operational approval for use as a mena-

ber of the LIPSTICK Team la Mexico under

This 24

approval was cancelled by WH/III in a memorandum dated 9 Novembex

1957.] There is so derogatory information in ESCOBAR'a fle and so

information on him since 1957.

SECRE

GBOUP !

Exciaded tran setazzati

tochssificenten

Z/pV

---

## Page 4

14-00000

4 The only other GuillerIo ESCOBAR on uhom theo la

Laformallon in Security Indices la an ladividual by that name, llated

Is a 1 DoCOmber 1949 repost on The Loarth (TROTSKYITE) Inter-

national. Tha Gulllermo ESCOBAR, Secretary General of tho

Federacion de Obteras de Imprenta do Chile, was listed as ono ol

the personalitios la the Partido Obrero Revolvelanarlo, an aifilialed"

Chilean organIzatios.

M. D. Stevens

Attachments memo dta 9 Oct 67

MDS/COT ..

SECRET

---

