‘04-40174-10056| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

RETURN 7;
a : i Bek ground te
af . ° Rote Dron, sc are

TSR S RFA Teaboe S as
oisparcH [sitter [eae

(abet of Statias, Ushese

jo

isin at

1. The sonler TTC “talf bes Foeruited a oexher of individuals eho bare
bad extensive experience ia polities, particularly es eaxpaizga mongers ang 2)
politioal erganisers. Adar dared ey reggie porrer beri tame .
where bo eas in contest with the Sistion and tha tee pringipal agents
pelitisal eeticn project. Ta akiStlen to io eenverestioas edth there inttriéesa
be aloo trureled arose the arca and talked to a musber of aucitting laficid@ealo
prior te necting ogaia with Station parcenee] sad the prizcipal agerte, 49 6
veeult of his conversations and af bia delving inte the Jes) political coun,
bo uae able io esses up with mm exesadingly Lafeucd aponnenent ef the leoal
galitieal ovens ae well as ccumwla recomendations in mgard te the oxgenieatian
ef tho palitioal estion festiens being varperted by AUIMES, ples rowvemsedstiens
oa te hew they shoul! prvesnt toward azating thalr lucediate predlens, sbiss
ineladed the palding of 2 cuaber of divergent festtons into » sesreive ayel-
tation eapabdle af enited srtias ageizet the Consmists at tha polis, The Ktetien
mus pleased with the revulte alvest to the letter ta taoiy reconmodeticns to

Headquarters.

2. It 8s Rensquartors’ fosling that Edward G, TIGIBGIN, deeerited fa
Payegreph & below, oeald perforn a very uso:  lesamlivrere trea
Wish the orgaulser penticasd snery parlorae: itis 14 provided sath 8
galtadle cover stery, TiCAKRR could visit intents VARCHA ( we eateretert Le
fev resweriog front resent ratseatle sealant). tarelises Suralet pvenge and
ether regions] ené national political leaturs, Ga the nests of his dismerdess
with then he should ba able ta emma ep with a mavber ef prectisel
which wenld be ef value ia inplcsenting. 2M ’ATROL end other fature political
actin projects, Tuo advantages waica en orgenimay of ibis type offers to @
field station are, firet, that dois a spesislist in the dotelle ef pregiics]
pelition——a breed aad complet field af exioever—and sesend, taat be talbs ta
foilow politialans a2 a moe-oftisial proetiaianer of thst art and Le uximbibited
ty any overt comecticn with OOTT.

3. It ha prepeesd, tharefere, teat TICE RN be sent to your Meticn co
THY for 30 days te coumalt with Station parvanme) auf te talk te TACHA, SAMCHRD,
and ethers. “Ne should like ta bevo your cumments ou this prupesal as wll 09
: whatever ideas you nay bave on wbal cover viary TICHFORY could wee daring Ris

‘ talks with tha political leadare involved. 13 ip the ballaf av

‘ Chat, emse the initial eentests ate ectadlishal, parhape through direst intro

é deotiona by the Stetica, 2 satural affinity of Interest butwwon TICKAOK ued «
: the Osdens ill uerve to ostablieA rapper’ quictly, Altheagh tho TH «f

ee TICHEUEY would be ef valec odisfiy In eounsction with AWATZOL, va could pyeder
E ' |. that ne Bo ocat Amendtiately, tefere feel preject approval. oF

pA. B TIOURFA wos bare in Serer, Calarede, 1920. HA, Halveralte af Dawvwe
PDN) Cradeaio Saban a! mensuise, Harvard Guivaraity, 294-1685) 113 Kapped
Law Sahocl, VOW: cvadeate tavy, Calversided Paaleaal ca Panties, 1953. fs Lo
BS progiiales attarasy and dae bad a rreal dsc’ of politiioal exerimsy 39
wameseosiwlly for ¢ bea office an tye [Larsaratis tletot $a Callens £4 J8S)05
Ho ds @ Pal Beta Raypas wae af tha Garverd Law Bevo) Rowe
palisved a naeber of ertlales au Lav aod JaserOite te em Amnrlean Seu toy
Saris parents, wha speaks active Hetiom Speaeh sod tes a typloal Redes 00777)
epeersacel be seald ase for » Maxteus ho bas om sweral enassions rhaited 2a se

cl

oy


oe

co

a

SEGRE]

DISPATCH

CONTINUATION OF

Se & exhlod reghy is requested,

i

