# 104-10001-10015

## Page 1

T104-10001-10015

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNLASSED

CON

* INTIAL

TUTONE!

FROME

RIAN

1Ox (Oficar designation

building)

room

XI SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHELT

EXTENSION!

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS,

3P

XAAZ - 2210/

DATE:

31 Mar 64

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to hoOray gu line ocross column after each comment.)

and

20

29

CI / RA

Riy/aN atten

Or armst

MICROFILMED

NUV 2 7 1967

C. MICRO: SERE!

hon about cron-filing

Marmas 201)

Done RID/AN MEM ISEITS6

Document Number 627.821

for FOIA Review on a JUN 1976

10.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USEOIRONOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTED TO CIRIA

ANGIEAR

DESE

ABSTRACT

INDEX

201-289248

INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000:

OC/P

4/655

WARNÍNG NOTICE

SENATOT!"

ir.!

!!!?

MICROPLIVIES

NUV 2 2 1357

DOC. NORD. SER

XAAZ-22601

3: HER 1954

MEMORANDUM FOR:

At. J. Los Bankin

SUBJECT:

Reports on Actiritten and Travel

al 200 H

THeY OSWALD and

Martia Nikoleras OSWALD as Transmitted

to Warren Commission

1. Reference is made ta the second paragraph of your

memorandu dated 12 F'ebruary 196k, and the second para-

graph of your memorandum af 16 March 1964, relative to

disceminations al informatton made by ClA to the secsot

sorutco.

Zo Ismodiately aftor the assassination of Prosident

Konnedy CIA undertook to sasesble through its stations la

Europe all avallablo date, including isformatton ta the files

of ether goversments and intelligence services, onthe

travels anf settykles of Les Haryay OSWALD and Mortua

Nikoloves OSWALD. This informatios, an it was collected,

sas made evatiable to the White Houne, the Department of

State and the Fedoral Bureau of lavestigatios. Coples al

thase messages were also sent ta the secret servles.

3, Attached to this i

two teletyped messages a

of the OSWALDs (Att

A and

at Attachment G are parapht

rased,

In.

MCH O01

Teletypa No. 85715, are found rolerencea to two sther tale

typed messages (OUT No. 85182 and QUI No. 85665) whick

describe one Richard Thomas GIBSON, a negro Journalis

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

Dooument Number

627-

00

B 201-743808

5 ATTS, Hi

CS COPY

RESTRICTED TO CI/R+A

31 - MAR 1964

201-289248

---

## Page 3

13-00000

WARNER, NOTICE

SENSIVE ARE CES AND

903 !

now residing in Switzerland wis has been active in the fair

Play los Caba Commiton, Paraphrases el No, 85182 and

No. 85665 are lncluded so Attresenta D asl I. ACcene to

or lginal testo al paraphrased lems will be provided wher

mersbere of your etell vlats Langley,. The information on

which paragrapha 8 and l el AlAChIBAN E are baseS 538

recotred at ClA Headquartere on 17 Movember and diansmai-

nated os 38 November.

& The sact

solom and the attachmente contata

vory ansaltire inferrintles which has a direct bearing on

SOUTERS ANX INE

thals. An approprtato senattivity indieator

has tharelare been affixed.

...

Richard Helsas

Deputy Directer for Plass

aB stated

Distribution:

Original & 2 - Addressee w/atts

1 ÷ DDP Chrono w/atts

1 * DDP subject w/atts

X = Mr. Rocca watts

1 = C/CI/SiG w/atts

1 = C/WH/3 w/atts

1 - 201+

GI/R&CA/TRHall/6664/26 March 1964

GS COPY

201-289248

i Miser.

t....

SENSATTE

---

## Page 4

13-00000

хота

ING NOMC:

SENSIA A SOURCES AND

MICROFILNED

NUV 2, 8 1967

DOC. MORE. GER.

cheet A

Teletype messago, OUT No. 86702, dated 4 December 1963,

filed as lall hours, to the White Horise, the Degertment al

state and the F'ederal Bureau ol Investigation, with copy to the

saczet Sarvico..

SUBJECIS LAR HaTVOY OSWALD

Recordo el the lorelinero recorda office ol the German

Fedoral Repablie in Gologne, Ges

easy, show that Marts

Nikotagerna Pul

akovA OSWALD crosned West Germany fron

Esot Germany to Hallaal on 3 Juna 1962, She traveled by sall.

cranelig into West Germany et Holmatedt on 3 Juse and enter

tog Holland by rall at the Bertheles crossles poles..

She had

West German vies 694/62 thousd at the Went Gurnaly Forbarry

In Moscow. She llsted bee finl

tion so 0.5. A. Women

Tate confieras taforseption from the U.6. Embassy la Moscow

to the etfact that the OSWALD, tanily traveled from Monsow to:

Rotter

Cam by Tallat

send A Scen 196t Hokastedt and Bombet.

ate sa the viate call coule Area Ruggla to &

While

Lee OSWALD blmpelt and thets tulatt deughte

•aro not rocorded

ta Geras recordo the lo probably because little attention te

ATT. I to:

XAAZ-22601

SECRET

201-28924

WARNING NOTICEr

SENSiTIVE SOUndes AND Execcad ten at

---

## Page 5

13-00,000 г

WARNIN&S OTICE

SECRET SENSITIVE SOLDERS AND

MICROFILMED

NUV 2 7 1967

DOC. MICRO. JER.

massage, OUT No. 87520, dated 6 Decei

mber 1963.

1839 hours, to the WAlto House, the DEp

* al

and the Inderal Bureau of Invei

tigatios, wits e

v to thi

10so

1% Ice Max

YAY OSWALD

« OUT telegrana Ma

- 86702 06

Decembre 1963 »beb gave Informalles on the travel of

MErtIA OSWALD (an presumbly ates Lice Harvay OSWALD

iter) across West Germinay on thele fetur

from the

normatton now evallable from Bate.

& to conti

atha, On 3 June 1962 one

M. G

AJD, 11

mate Reelen eutren, entered The

ato at ths old

envent border por

Consoon

& de belloved that the linting of this poreds

no a male listend of ten le von tent an erren of the border

ATT: 2 to:

XAAZ- 22601

CS COPY

PROREC

WA

3/-MAR - 1964

2015 289245

GReg

Excluded 41

METHODS INVOLVES

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

WARNING NOTICE

MICROFILMED

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

NUV 2 7 1967

DOC. MICED. SER:

5P

ga No, 85719, dated 39 Moverab

* 1969, filed

to the White House, the Departe

reau of ins

tigation.

a ol Buste and

to the Secret

SUBJECI: Travel of INo HATPeY OSWALD

1. The follontus tata

otten has been gathered tram

rollable sa

aurces regarding the travel of see Marvey OSWAL»

and ile wifer

2, 2 Octeber 1999s Accordtes to offictal

British travel rectas COVALD arrived la

ton this date clalming on to taming cand

10 on twe

pisaned to remain

in the

calpe on

holy regarbe to the

vine laid wik which

Albert Achipl

he la known to day

teal British travel reside CowALD len, Londo

the date by ate for Melatskl

CS. COPY

ATT. 3 t.: XAAZ- 72601

20-28924

SENSIVE SOURCES A R

3-MAR - 19GY

Excluestar

dennet

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

WAR

SENSE "VE

NOTICE

CE AND

c. Osteber 1959: Ste

asthatma aswapaper, Bager!

Airbater, of 25 November 1963 states L00 OSWALD

passed through Sureden during Octaber 1959, Artlede

alss addo that OSWALD wes minuccesetal la ebtainta

visa to the USER in Helatald uhdck resetted to sta

roturning to stockholsa, Two dayo alter he asstred ta

Stockhata OSTAND traveled direetly to Moscow.

ning sei

that the Burnten Embassy (Stockhotos) gave bies a vlas. "

According to a sellable source there ins no rocord

that there was any requast for a USSR vies proceased

through sarmal channele for OSWALD at any the

durtas 195%, and smunce todiented it was diffieut to

«plata how OSWALD migtt bave sei

ed bia visa in

two days wither going through normal characte. The

only conchutes which can he drain la hat, oste

on direct

om the Soviet

to egatisra

$260d

WANKING Notice

SONSTEVE GOUGEG

MICRODS INVOLVES

Excinie,

---

## Page 8

13-00000

HEL

5.2299

27N0U63

VALINK 6

d. 101015 Octuber 1959: According to d/very

reitablo brat (o

trenaly) penaltive perrce OSWALD stayed

at the Total Motal In Helent! frona 10 to 1l Octaber and

then moved to the Klawn Hurk! Hotel whore be stayed

unt 1 15 Octobes, apparently watting for a vira ta be

lanued bira by the savlet Consulato in Helatnio, Fo

traveled to the USAR by trato, crosalag at Valalitata on

15 October.

e. 19 May 1962: According to a Dutch oftletal

sOUrCe, the Dutch Chargo in Moscow lanued a tranalt

Vies to OSWALD's wife on 11 May 1963, Thats secords

reveal hts wife was barn os 17 July 1941 lastead of

19 July 1941 asd ta Devorodvinak tastead of Minals.

There is no record of her having actually trenalted

The Netherlands.

1: 19621 Offletal Britieh recorde do not sellect

that OSWALD returned to the United Blaten frow the

USSR through the Batted Klagdom, However, if he

were merely transiting, it would not have been

necessary for him to illl out a landing card, and

therefore there would be no record of hia travel la

the official traffic indes..

- 3.

---

## Page 9

13-00000

S. 1963: Accaretag to as extremely sensitfre and

sellable source, on 23 November MarLa ENETHLAGE.

boad of the "erkgroup Informantle Gube" fWarker aus

Informatton Caba), told as employes al the Cubar

Embassy is Tha ingus that she was sure she bad snes

"That HAS, LEI la Havasa, "bo did the murder", She

described him as a man al violence and entirely full al

hate asd indicated that l1 was pannible that this man bad

been misused by a greup, She naid she had writes to

'GIBSON" about the had trapression aba bad bad of tblo

LII, (Headquarters comment! please refer to our

tolstype Nos. 85182 and 89665 for additioval information

03 (IBSON.) Later, SNETHLAGE tall Castro Gubans

in The Hagus that '"Mr, Lit of the Fair Flay for Caba

Committee, had been slandered and that ll was another

person ramel Las OSWALD who had done it, SNET HLAGE

anemed to be glad to have heard this "cerrect" veraton..

(Headquartero conment: Mt, LEE sany be tontical wilb

Vincent Theodore Lift who replaced Richera GIBSON as

Head of the Fatr Play fox Guba Garmittee.)

---

## Page 10

13-00000

Do According to reliable iaformatios, SNETHLAGI

Was in Cuba ls Jantary 1969, and according to an offictal

Dutch soured, the agatn traveled to Cuba fer the May Day

calebrationas ta 1963.

ES COPY

-5-

201-289245

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SEMES:

2P

Attachment D

Talotype No. 85182, dated 22 Novoraber 1963, Illed at 1982 hours,

to the White Fonze, tho Department al Stato and the Federal

Bureas of inventigation, with copy to the Bocret Service, (paraphrase)

MICRORILMED

NU:? 21057

DOC. MicRo. S2

l. In comersation with a claso frtend la Bert.

Butterland, on 23 Movember 1963, Richard Themes GIBSON

remarkad that OSWALD lA "ERS Of UB", OSWALD and GIBSON

had carraspended two years prevlonaly, and OSWALD had

Jalnad the Coralitoe, (Camant: Refezence la presumably

to the F'at Play for Cabe Committes.) GIBSON edded that he

had destroyed all his letters fIOM OSWALD. OSWALD IB

Erasy. GIBSON than remarked that hs is happy that he was

not in Now Tork.. He felt sarzy for "IFE" in New York and

tOT "TIBOR".

2. The information given above was supplied by an

extremaly sensittre source who ts usually seltable.

3. Accoriling to other information that was avallable,

Richard Thomas GIBSONY, bors 13 May 1931 is Los Angeles,

California, is a negro journalist who has been active in tha

CS COPY

ATT. 4 To: XAAZ-22601

31-MAR-176Y

201-289248

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SEGATE T

1'.1

Fat Flay for Cuba Gommittee dince 1960. Ha has rostled

since April 1963 at lanszans, Switzerland. is this latter

country GIBBON has particlpated ta the publication of La

Revelatton Africalse.

CS COPY

=2=

201-259248

---

## Page 13

13-00000

MICROFILMtO

WUV 2 7 1967

DOC. MicRO. 250

the Foderal Bureau of lurestigation, with copy to the sacrat

Service. (paraptoranod)

do Our statlos in The lague has reported that os

23 November 1963, & local Castroite sarned Marte ENITHLAGE

tald TAted Secretary Ricardo SANIOS al the Gabaz Irabassy in

The Hages that she keew the "Mr. LIE" (ate) who murdered

Presides Hennody, She described "'ISE" as a Man fall el hase

and violence, and speculated that he had been "misused by a

group". She sald she had wellton to GIBSON (undoubtedty

Richard GIBSON, T.S. ellisen al Lananans; Sultzerland, burn

13 May 1935, a Cartro sympathizes, who had viaited The

Notherlands recastly and had been in contact both with the

Sortet Arabassador and the Gaban Embassy).

2. Lates that sanse day MArla SNETHLAGE told SeCretary

SANIOS that UNT, LEE of the F'at Flay for Gube Committee!

had been atandered.. The asthsain had been snnthat paraos,

LEO OSVALI. SNETHLAGE ls reported to have bees in Caba

is Jamary and again in May 1963.

GS COPY

31-MARI194

201-289245

ATT. 5 t: XAAZ-22601

---

## Page 14

13-00000

SECRE

ME: 1006 heye.

3. Acconflag to Dutch authortion on 1 November 1963.

In talking about astacks by Cuban refugeen agalast the Crban

mallarad, SANTOS had repliad "fast walt and you will ane what

To can do, Il Mill happen saos, " Mated to be more proctso,

SANTOS bad replled "Just wait, fuet valts, SANTOS le reported

to have a pro-Castro brother ta the U.S. A.

A. A vary senaltire source reparts that after lia conver.

toRs MA SNITHLAGI, SANTOS tas very angry becarise ahe

bad contacted biss.

CS COPY

-2=

201-287248

---

