Viodfeaee“t0s16) [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

[ Declassified and Approved for Release
by the Central intelligence Agency

~ mar 200%

_ wag

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER Ill

15 November 1974

ANNEX B
THE 201 SYSTEM

Rescission: Annex B of Chapter III, CSHB 70-1-I;

27 October 1966

b 1, INTRODUCTION

‘The 201 system provides a method for identifying a person of specific in-
terest to the Operations Directorate and for controlling and filing all pertinent
information about that person. The system also provides a means for identifying
subjects of 201 files from various categories of information about them and for
producing lisits of 201 personalities according to those categories. Only a rela-
tively small number of personalities indexed are of suffictent interest to justify
opening a 201 dossier. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and
CI investigation, prospective agents and sources, members of groups and organi-
zations of continuing target interest, or subjects on whom a volume of corre-
spondence has accumulated.

2. THE 201 SYSTEM

“The principal features of the 201 systein are:

a. The 201 Number: 2 unique number, ie., 201-1234587, assigned to each
individual in the system to serve as identifying file number for reporting on that
individual.

b. The 201 Dossier: the official file containing the 201 opening form (Form
831) and all biographic reporting on and references to the individual, ie, per-
sonal history, current status, and prospects. +

¢. The Master 201 Record: a machine record generated by the opening of
2.201 file. This record produces the master 201 reference for the Main Index and ~
stores the pertinent information which may later be retrieved! for special listings.

d. Main Iridex Master 201 Reference: this reference, printed in reply to an
Index Search Request, is printed as illustrated below. When data are absent
within the record, succeeding data items or lines will be moved up and the ref-
erence consolidated. .

23



13-00000

5

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

9002 cnorx, WILLIAM PEvDLETON

eX M'DOB 12 APR 26 1B GERM, Beni) ‘TYPE MARE t
Ors he SOD Pee

REF AACD-12345, 20 JUN $3 OCC COE Cu Reo Bare $3.
SUBJECT RECENTLY ATTENDED THE SEVENTEENTH ANNUAL

CONFERENCE OF THE ZWFERNATIONAL ASSGCIATION OF CHENIStS

‘AND PHARUACISTS HELD IN HOWICK, GERMANY FROM 22 THROUGH

29 ocrosER.
30 nov 70 0033543

Information About Subject

1, Sequence Number and Name
2. Sex and Date of Birth
3 Citizenship

4. Place of Birth
5. Occupation

8. Occupation Code
7. Text

Document Reference Data Croup
8.201 Number
8. Name Type Indistor
10.,O1 Codes ...
11, Record Date (year only)
12. Reference

18G Controt Information
19, Date of latest update of the record
4M, STAR Index Record Number


13-00000

4

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

¢. OI Code: a two letter symbol used in conjunction with the 20L “per
sonality records in the 201 system to record the association of an individual
with organizations or activities of operational interest. OI codes cover intelli-
gence and security service affiliation, whetaer staff or agent, or known or
suspect, as well as activities of DDO interest. There are two ‘categories of OI
codes for use by components:

(1) general OI codes (Attachment 4)

(2) OT codes assigned to a specific component for intelligence services
or other specific organizations.
‘A component may request an OI code be established by submitting a mem-

orandum to the DDO/RMO through the component Records Management
Officer. .

‘A201 personality may be assigned two Ol eodes. An OI code may be assigned
when the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) is initiated (see
paragraph Sb below) by filing in Box 18 or a code may be assigned or added
at a later date by a Form 83] amendment.

The 201 system has the capability of producing machine listings of 201
personalities by OT codes, For example, if an OI code has been opened for the

security service of a certain country a listing may be compiled of all members
of that service.

£, 201 Machine Lists: produced from the mechanized 201 Index, based on
names or other identifying information of personalities on whom 201 dossiers

exist.

3. OPENING A 201 DOSSIER
a. General

‘The opening of a 201 dossier is the prerogative of an operational “com-
ponent, in coordination with the Information: Services Group. An opening creates
& master 201 record. Changes to the master record and the occasional -closing.
of 4 201 dossier, aré coatrolled jolntly by the desks and.1SG. 201 dossters may be =
opened on pérsons who meet the carding critéria descritied'in Chapter If of this
handbook, when there is a reasonable expectation that additional information
will be acquired and filed in such a dossier. Generally dossiers are opened on
persons about whom counterintelligence information is being reported, and per-
sons of operational interest to the Operations Directorate, specifically those
persons for whom provisional operational: approvals and operational approvals:
are requested (see exception below). 201 files are not to be opened oa stat
employees, staff agents and most categories of contract employees: File on



13-00000

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

persons who are only of local interest to a field station or Headquarters desk
and on whom no DDO records correspondence exists are not a part of the DDO
records systém and are to be maintained by that unit, Some desks levy require-
ments.on ISG for automatic 201 openings on certain categories of persons whose
names appear in incoming dispatches. These’ are listed in Attachment 2. 201
dossiers should be opened in the following categories: . :

(1) Subjects of provisional operational approval. and operational ap-
proval requests. However, a file need not be opened! when a POA is requested
for persons being trained for a foreign liaison service and who are of opera-
tional interest for training purposes only.

(2) Persons for whom the field requests a 201 opening.

(3) MHFIXTURE personalities: bonafide diplomats of other than
denied area countries, in close association with staff personnel.

AA) Subjects of a Personal Record Questionnaire Part I.

F-(3) Perséns a Whokd @ Mice index earch reveals thfottnation tir five
or more documents (see DOI 70-20).

(8) Subjects of Interagency Source Register memoranda, from LSN/
ISR (opened only by IP/RMS).

b. Requesting a 201 File Opening

Headquarters desks may open 2 201 file by filling out and submitting
a 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) to the Records Main-
tenance Section (IP/RMS). Form 831 is also used to create or amend the
master, 201 record and 201 machine listings and to register the assign-
ment of a cryptonym to a 201 personality. Attachment 3 consists of sample
201 Personality File Action Requests for opening and amending 201's. A field
station may request the: opening of a 201. file-by writing 201- in the Head-
quarters file or cross-reference box.on the dispatch form and/or After’ the
subject’s name in the body of the dispatch: A telepouch request for a 201 opening
is made by indicating 201- in the file number line, A cable request is made by
placing 201- after the term’*File” on the last line of the transinission. IP/AN
will open 201 files as requested by dispatch or telepouch but it is the responsi-
bility of the desk to ‘respond to cable requests. Field stations are notified of
201 openings through receipt of the field master 201 record.

26



13-00000

~
_~

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

4, CONTENTS OF THE DOSSIER

Information about a 201 personality should be filed or cross-referenced into
_ his dossier. When additional information is discovered on a 201 subject through
a name trace or other process, ie. review of predecessor documents, it must

be consolidated into his personality dossier. See DOI 70-20 for consolidation
procedures.

Material which is filed in the dossier includes but is not limited to: 7

a. 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831).

b, Biographic information including photographs, fingerprints, and
handwriting samples.

r ¢, Personal Record Questionnaire Parts I and II.
d. Operational and other security approvals, . -
e. Name check replies, requests, clearances, and approvals.
£. Acknowledgement of pseudonym,
g- 201 personality assessments and evaluations.
4 ( h. Copy of contract and termination papers.
4. Secrecy agreement.
7 J. Agent Duty Status Report.
“k. Training and evaluation,
1. SGSWIRL report. :

m. Newspaper clippings. -"

n, Any information which helps provide a better understanding <
subject and our interest in him; this may include operational reporting

5. MAINTENANCE OF 201 DO}

The 201 personality dossier contains, in document date order, papers which
have been made a part of the Central Records Systeni as well as those which
have not. Record documents may range from newspaper or magazine articles
on the subject to finance and other administrative papers.

2h
“aa

. SEERET



13-00000

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

a. Purging ws

Purging a 201 dossier is the responsibility of the desk officer. It requires
discrimination in recognizing operationally useful material, rather than the
simple distinction between official and unofficial papers; it will therefore take
place under the supervision of a Records Officer. Purging should be done
periodically. A 20] dossier being forwarded to Central Files for retention should
be pusged. A 201 dossier should be purged of the following:

(1) Duplicate material, ic, exact copy(s) of a document.

c (2) Name tace form (Form 862) unless it has been the basis for
the opening,

(3) All abstract slips.
(4) All document restriction notices (Form 1884).

(5) The disseminated version of positive intelligence information if
a copy of the raw report is contained in the 201 file; the dissemination number
then must be transferred to the first page of the raw report.

(8) Routing slips, routing and record sheets (Form 610) and dispatch
cover sheets unless there are remarks such as coordinations or comments.

(7) Record copy documents which only repeat substantive information
contained in other documents in the file; authorization for destruction is
by the Records Officer.

(8) Top Secret documents are not to be retained in-a 201 dossier
forwarded to Central Files; the document must be downgraded for retention
in the 201 dossier. To downgrade a Top Secret document, an authorized
officer in the originating office or the Records Officer having jurisdiction
over the contents of the material must possess Top Secret. classification.
authority, If the document cannot be downgraded the file should be retained’
at the desk or the copy of the TS document should be removed, retained
in a desk ‘TS file or forwarded to ‘the ae Secret Control Officer, aad cS
cross-reference sheot (Form aery, plined.2a 201 file“giving the k
of the TS dotument: .

(8) Deferred documents (see 5b(2)).

'b. Maintenance Procedures

(1) All material in a 201 dossier will be filed in document date order.
In the case of document attachments which have been classified into a 201



13-00000

should be mounted on a full-size sheet of paper for filing in the 201.

~., for inclusion in 2-201 personality dossier will be forwarded with the basic
“Tdocunient to.IP/AN.! forprovessing. into. thé 201,

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER Ill, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

dossier and separated from the basic document by the assignment of a slash
number, the attachment will be filed by the date of the baste document.

(2) Deferred documents will not be filed in & 201 dossier. If they are
to be retained in the dossler-they should be sent to IP/RMS for classification
into that 201.

(8) Field index cards (held by some:desks) and area desk cards may ~
be retained in the 201 as part of a consolidation procedure. These cards,

(4) A 201 dossier previously opened on a person who becomes a staff
employee and which contains Record Copy documents will be restricted to
the ISC/DIP unless the desk retains the restriction. The dossier should be
closed if there areno Record Copy documents in it.

(5) A 201 opened in pseudonym should be consolidated into the true
name 201 if one exists or converted to the true name,

(8) Field and duplicate (shadow) 201 files no longer of active interest
should be incorporated into the official 201 after the duplicate material
has been purged by the desk officer and the remaining information classified
to that 201 by the Analysis Section (IP/AN).

(7) Any document with a predecessor organization cover sheet or an
OPC (Office of Policy Coordination) cover sheet from the Archives and
Disposition Section (IP/ARD) must be retumed to IP/ARD for processing
to the 201.

(8) Desk memoranda (with or without a document source number)
containing substantive or derogatory information on the subject of the 201
should be sent to. IP/AN to be classified officially into the 901 file... _

(9) An attachment which should be separated from its basic document *

(10) To retain the P&L, RYBAT, ty OF

remaining in a 201 dossier being retired to Central Files, place that document
fn an envelope sealed with black tape (see DOI 70-17). Any RYBAT, P&L,

or KAPOK document sent to Central Files not in a black-taped envelope will -
automatically be handled as desensitized. A black-taped envelope may ‘con--*" ~*~.
tain only one document and must be filed in’ chronological order within‘the -  -
file. If there are numerous documents of this type the desk officer may black-— v- -
tape the entire dossier rather than individual documents (see DOT. 70-10)



13-00000

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

ion pa 15 November 1974

7 Black-taped dossiers or dossiers with black-taped documents will be
+ handled as restricted dossiers,

(11) An. inactive 201 dossier or an-inactive volume of a large 201
dossier on: permanent charge-should be-retumed to-Central Files under a
Routing and Record Sheet with the notation shown below.. :

O ye

OD wvcussirico GO connor = sterr
noua mo on et?



13-00000

DOHB 70-1-1
5 . CHAPTER UI, ANNEX B

15 November: 1974

6, 201 DOSSIER CHARGES

A 201 dossier may be kept on permanent charge at the desk during any
period of active interest. If the dossier is transferred to another desk, the desk
officer who is transferring the dossier must notify Central Files of the transfer.
Central Files will then send the Notice of Transfer of Document or File Account-
ability (Form 2977) to’the new action desk officer.

2, gememrine

NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF DOCUMENT OR FILE ACCOUNTABILITY
a : m eT

to notify you Ghat eccountability for the docuent(a) asd/or ‘ata cited
ya tranaferred to you by?

Accordingly, TP’ 3 jou as the custodian. Please costact IF/Files,
+ 4362, if you bave ary questions regarding this transfer.

ar CCONFLDEATIAL,

The new action desk officer must then fill out a 201 Personality File Action
Request (Form 813) to change the action desk designation to insure that the
201 personality will be included in the Headquarters and field machin pugs
for his component:

7. RESTRICTED DOSSIERS.

2, Access to a sensitive 201 dossier may be restricted by holding the fle at the
desk or placing it on restriction in Central Files.

(1) The dossier. may be restricted by checking-Bor-2 on-the 201
Personality File Action Request (Form 831) when the file is opened.
85.02 a

SEGRET



13-00000

DOHB 70-1-1
. CHAPTER UI, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

(2) The dossier may berrestricted by holding it on permanent charge
from Central Files. (Note: To maintain the restriction of a dossier being
returned to’ Central Files for rétention, a File Restriction Notice (Form
2021) must accompany the dossier.)

(3) The dossier may be restricted ind held in Central Files by sub-
" mitting a File Restriction Notice (Form 2021).

‘CONFIDENTIAL

FILE RESTRICTION NOTICE

File, couplate Section A (aiguature of R.0. not

wtriction, couplete Section B (H.O, signature

‘COWF IDENTIAL

<b. Access to a restricéed dossier located in Central Files is limit
personnel of the restricting desk or persons authorized by that desk. Any request
for the charge of a restricted dossier or any document within.a restricted dossier
‘held in’ Central Files will-be forwarded ‘with tre gntire: lossier rand a multiple.
routed cover sheet to the restricting desk. This desk may then forwaid the file”
ta the requester or deny the request and rtura the dose to Central Files. The
desk will notify the requester of a denial.

c. Anyone requesting a restricted dossier, or a document witha restric
dossier, permanently or temporarily charged toa desk, will be referred t Hak
desk by Central Files,



13-00000

+ blank, ‘ase’ the port-country code 900"fa. the ation box (Box-14), and indica

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

8 REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION ON’ 201 PERSONALITIES . a

‘The Automated Index Section (IP/AIS) will provide the identity of the
subject of 1 201 number voles the Ol fle ts restricted, in which cate the
requester will be referred to the restricting desk,

IP/AIS will also provide the 201 number assigned to a name, unless the 201
file ts restricted, or state that thero fs no 201 number‘assigned, Requesters should ~
supply identifying information whenever available for each name submitted.

“Requests pertaining to five or fewer names or numbers may be made by
telephone by calling the IP/AIS red line extension; IP/AIS will provide the
information by retum call to the requester’s extension as listed in the Badge
Table. Requests for more than five names or numbers must be listed and sent
by tube or courier to IP/AIS; IP/AIS will reply by retum mail.

9, 201 DOSSIER CANCELLATION

‘A 201 file may be authorized for cancellation by a Records Officer, after
appropriate coordination. The file should ba forwarded to IP/RMS which will
destroy the folder and the cards leading to it and will remove the name and
number from machine lists. Any Record Copy document contained in the folder
will be reclassified to'another appropriate file or sent to the Destruction Unit
(IP/DU) as directed by the desk Records Officer.

10. 201 MACHINE LISTINGS

Machine listings provide field stations and Headquarters desks with names
and.201 numbers in the requester’s particular geographic or functional area of
interest. If a component wishes to exclude a sensitive 201 personality from.its
alphabetic, numeric, and cryptonym Ustings, this ‘miay be done when opening”.
the 201 or later by a 201 amendment. On the 201 Personality File Action Request:
(Form 831) leave the country of location (Box, 18) and interest desk (Box 16)

permanent charge to the responsible desk: The only listing which will include the =: <
201 number is the IP/201 record for the Vital Records program. 201 Hstings are | :
categorized as standard or nonstandard and as scheduled or special.

a. Standard ‘Listings’ tous

Issued semi-annually to Headquarters and the field; based on a component's -
interest as indicated in the “Action Desk,” “Country ‘of Location,” and “Interest

ops won a

SECRET



13-00000

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER JI, ANNEX B

: . mo + 15 November 1974

Desk” blocks on the 201 Rersonality File Actiod Request (Form 831)."The
standard listings avallable are

*-*21) ‘Alphabetical by sumame, leading to a $01 umber;
(2) Alphabetical by given name, leading to a 201 number; *
(3) Alphabetiéal by ryptoaym, leading to a 201 number
(4) Nomerical, leading to a surname; crs

(5) Numerical, leading to a cryptonym. . -

TEE FEAT OREINTIAT ION TATRA UT OY

our
ws? cont

nusasenear



13-00000

* will be included in :the printout. These non-standard listings may be sorted

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER Ill, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

All standard. listings are cumulative; previous editions must..be destroyed
upon receipt of current editions. These listings are by their very nature extremely
sensitive compilations of information and must be given every posible safeguard.

b. Non-Standord Listings foe :
Based on one or more of the following selection criteria:
» (1) Country of location
(2) OF codes (organization and/or intelligence affiliation)
(3) Citizenship : F
(4) Year of birth (plus or minus a given number of years), __
(5) Occupation. an -

These selection criteria may ‘be used singly or in combinations. For example,
a user could obtain a list of all 201 personalities who have been assigned the
Ol-code of XX or codes of XX, XY, or XZ."A 201 personality list could also be
produced of all persons who were born in Germany between the years 1915
and. 1920, with the occupation. computer ‘specialist, who are now citizens of the
United States, located in Mexico, and who had been assigned the Ol code AA. . ©
Note however that the listing would contain only those personalities with an
OI code AA. Those personalities with an OJ code other. than AA and those
with no OI code would be excluded. The requester could however ask that
persons who have not been assigned an OI code also be included. Note also
that when retrieving lists based on occupation, the listing will be only as specific
as the occupation code (Attachment 1). The’ occupation code for a courier .*
covers only a documented courier. Some ‘occupation ‘codes cover moré thin oie”
occupation. For example, the occupation code CRAF covers those who practice”
some trade or manual occupation, i.e., carpenters; bricklayers, painters, mechanics
and electricians. If a list is requested for eléctricians, all others in this category. ~

Ga) Srna z
“(b) Given’ naine- :
(6) "Date'of bith"
(4) Country of birth

(e) Citizenship
(f) Of code
(g) Location



13-00000

_ DOB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, "ANNEX B

15 November 1974

“Sorts-can:be made within ‘sorts, For examiple, 201 personalities may be sorted -
alphabetically by surname within OI codes for given. countries of focation.- -
Because two OI codes may be listed: for each personality, those names with two

OT codes would be listed twice,

©. Scheduled Listings
Standard and non-standard listings printed semiannually.
. Special Listings

Unscheduled, usually non-standard, listings produced on a one time basis
an response to special operational requirements.

e. Request for Listings

All requests for standard or non-standard alphabetical and numerical 201
listings for Headquarters and the field, for changes in periodic listings, and for
information on the 201, machine list system should be made to the component
Records Management Officer.

=.



13-00000

SECRET

DOHRB 70-
CHAPTER Hl, ANNEX
Attachm

B

15 November 1!

AUTOMATIC 201 DOSSIER OPENINGS

901 files will be opened automatically by TP/AN on the following cate-
gories of people.

4 (ABE)

plomats with rank of third secretary ot above
b. Military attaches and assistant military attaches
¢. Intelligence officers of the General Intelligence Department (GID)

(Prior to opening of en BRE)201 file, check with NE/E) for correct spelling
of name and additional biographic data.)

gz

“All positively identified members off ___nd|__ he! Intelligence
Services. ~~

b, All positively identified members of the Military Toteligence Service

oL_ ‘Communist Party officials on national or provincial levels and
officials of the SCommunist Party front organizations. Do not open
unless there is at Teast a date of birth given.

a. All members of the Security Service of the

3. Cuba

Intelligence service employees (SE, DGI).

‘TP

a ANG diplomats. (CINE/ISHY should be indicated as the originating
‘office with CL/SP always indicated as the secondary office of interest.

b. Military attaches.
©. Assistant military attaches

, Identified intelligence officers.



13-00000

SS SS BPS
“—
; ¢ “
SEGRET
DOHB 70-1-1 i
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B i
Attachment 2 il
15 November 1974

5. North Vietnam on “ o .
All diplomats and NFLSV (PRG) officials stationed abroad.

6. USSR soos

a, All Soviets assigned PCS to an official representational installation, Le, 47
embassy, consulate, commercial representation, national altline (Aeroflot)
office, news media office. !

b. All Soviets assigned PCS to the United Nations in New York, Paris, Geneva,
and Vienna.

¢. Audio technicians; after coordination with SE desk concerned.

d. Students who will be studying abroad for a full academic year at institutions
of higher learning.



13-00000

— : SECRET
~ 70-1
C . CSHB 49-44 i
CHAPTERIT |
{ if
1

‘BANDBOOK NO. 484-1 15 February 1960

—
Cl investigation, prospective agents and sources,
groups and organizations of contiruing target int
. these personalities into the CS records sfatem. A single number,
e.g., 201-123456, is assigned to each pérson, and a dossier controlled
by this number is established which/ontains, or has cross referenced
to it, all of the reporting on the ingtvidual’s personal history, current
., status.and prospects. Oncé the 201 number is assigned, it is used in i
_ future reporting on the individy4l both as a file number and in, place of |
G j

information or specific interest to warrant opening
ple: A considerable number of stations are coneeeaes

ls pe Ss
SECRET we GHG 7-1-1 Ait
: 1 Dad bo _



13-00000

Jo-l1
CSHB43-41+4
CHAPTER Il, ANNEX B

CLANDESTINE SERVICES aAVe

HANDBOOK NO. 43-t-i 5 15 5 February 1960

of the Cuban desk on the dramatis personae. In addition to 201 per-
sonalities, such Hists"should contain the names avid identitying data
of persons who should be kept track of, althougH they may only be of
tangential interest or on whom there may be ittle or no data other
than that given in the listing itself=

4. To accommodate this type of requiy‘ement in the 201 system,
identifiable personalities concerning whgm enough information is not
yet available to require the opening of ¢ file may be assigned ulate
of the following type but in the same

These are relabeled “201” if a tjle is opened. IDN numbers are car~
ried with 201 numbers in appropriate general or special listings,
where they are identified by te letter “I” in the “Type of Name” col-~
umn, IDN numbers are not £8 file numbers. . °

5. All 201 code numbers are assigned by RID at headquarters, °
either upon receipt of Férm 831, or of a field dispatch. If a dispatch
is written about a pergonality not yet in the system, a 201 number for

it may be requested Simply by writing under een ial file number
in the dispatch forpi as follows:

‘Dispatch Symbol and No.

*. 0 , KYZA-12345

Headquarters File N
it - A

6. DN { numbers are assigned by RID at headquarters upon the
request of stations or desks which are developing special identification
programs within the 201 system. The field receives current notifica-

tion of new 201 openings and IDN numbers through the. Field Index Card :

Service.

CQ)



13-00000

¢. (
. 70-1-¢
cated CSHB 43-4-+
. CHAPTER I, ANNEX B
CLANDESTINE SERVICES .
HANDBOOK NO. 43-4-+- 15 February 19,

7. Stations or branches often are concerned with peponalities
not of general CS concern. Files on these may be kept in any desired
order. Should such personalities become of genergY CS interest,
they must be brought into the 201 system. *, 5

