104-10109-10319 | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

30 April 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: WASHINGTON MERRY-GO-ROUND
Article by Jack ANDERSON in
WASHINGTON POST for 27 April 1971
Captioned "Telltale Traces of CIA
Cache Found"

WHITTEN, Leslie Hunter (#606 563 and 67868)

Les WHITTEN, born 2i February 1928 at Jacksonville,
Florida was considered for employment as a messenger with
RFE, Europe in March 1952. His use was cancelled in May 1958.
It is noted that WHITTEN, Jack ANDERSON's associate, called
lr. Goodwin's office on 14 April 1971 and asked "if CIA has
planned or carried out any landings of any kind against Cuba
since i962," Mr. Goodwin declined to comment,

» Bradley E. (#366 085)

Bradley E. AYERS, born 7 March 1935 at St. Faul, Minnesota,
was security approved in August 1964 for use ae a military assignee to
Froject JMWAVE. His er-ployment was terminated in December 1964
when he returned to his parent service. AYERS was a U.S. Army
Captain who had been granted a TOP SECRET clearance by U.S. Army
Headquarters, Ft. Benning, Georgia in January i958. It is noted from
his file that his wife, Rose Mary Lucy AYERS nee SCHELL had been
employed as a clerk-typist by the FBI from July 1953 to December 1954.

RODERICK, Edward T. (#366 034)

Edward T. RODERICK, born 28 August 1924 at Brockton,
}assachusetts, a U.S. Army Major, was loaned to the Agency for
use at JMWAVE in May 1963. Clearance for access to information
classified up to and including TOP SECRET on a need-to-know basis



was granted RCDERICK in May 1963. A TOP SECRET clearance
had been issued to him by Headquarters, Ft. Meade, Maryland

in Cctober 1958. He also held special clearances. agency
investigation of RODERICK was cancelled in Lecemiper 1963 as
notification was received that he was retiring from the Army as of
30 June-1964. He was returned to his parent service as cf i8 June
1964. It is noted that requests for clearance acticns an AYERS
and RCLERICK were included together in one memorendur: dated
6 May 1963,

LCSINER,

liam H,

William H. LOSNER, born 31 June 1938 =
Florida, |

He was Vice-Presicent &

|
Cashier of the Perrine-Cutler Ridge Bank, Hormestes¢, Florida.
(See attached copy of Message 149 dtd 22 April 1571 from SAC/MFO).

Sarah K. Hall
SRS/CS
