104-10169-10334 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

Pew otihes 7

DISPATCH

Culef, Wa

FROM Chief of Station, Deleinkt

suuect 4 VALINK/Cpereticns
© Marry Alfons SUADTIEe

"ACHON BLQUAED

rm

INDEXING CAN 6 ROGED
QUAURED HO DESK ONY

TERENCE

1, ‘The purpose of this dispatch ia to report on a case involving one of
the Finnish employeos at the Aucrican imbeesy, larry Alfene SUNUVIK. He has
eeu eaployed as 2 chaoffeur/clerk in the Coneral Serviocs Section ef the
Exbacsy aince 1351 and presently is in charge of the Inolaspified hail Boom.
His duties also include arranging travel docunents for U. 5. liplomatie courers
Ddetween Helsinki end Koscow smi hence he ts reason. to virit the Soviet Hobesay
Trom time to tim. ecently the snbessy Cenesral Services (fficer brouct his
suspicions to the attention of Zoodine, saying that they were based om Sumivik’s
general attitude, porticularly ofter the latter bad expressed his interest in
making @ trip to the Soviet Union end his teking “ursian lessons for tie
purpose. ‘The (SO alsy reported that Sundvik was know to have talked a nuber
of times with Soviet Vice Consul anatelij Cisoy while on routine business et
the Soviet Enbassy. ‘These points led to the screening of fu
file (with the concurrence of the Charge d'ssfeires) md to a check of tha
Yeferences he had given on his employment atplication. The latter turned cut
be quite shady. According to the ViL1RXS two of the three are listed as
. of arreste each, including nmrla:chter, drunkenness, theft,
end the third could not be i.entified. ‘These obviously were not inweetixated
wary olosely at the time Sumivik applied for enploymans, 5 April VALINK
sarveillanse wee placed on Sumdvik (agai_n vith the Charcé's concurrense!.
Be wes followed each evening after he left the Anbasey ond cn 10 ipril, after
it wes learmed that fundvik wan driving to the Soviet Union for e feureday tHip,
he wes followed from Terwkoeki to the Firsich-Soviet bardor point at Vaalinsa.
Two VALERIE detectives were on hand here to observe the orcesing. They reported
@ routine berder crossing, that no customs inspection wan made, end that
Bundvik set tuo Soviet Soldiors at the border station (on the Jove t side)
vofore sontinuing frcm there. drove off following the scldiere' car. ‘The
cireusetances of the border croasing are euspicicus in tat ho ornssed the border
slone, in hie om autewobile, in bad weather, md for only four days. They
also cospare clenely to the /lanko case where Alenko was asked by the Soviets
40 rent a oar, loave his fenily on the Finnish side (leppeenyenta) ax croex
the border alone for a short trip. On Sumdvik's return trip 15 a;ril he uns
again followed from the Lorder to Terwakceki, and then to flelvinki wheva day
to. day: survetiinnes eotinusd, Attached ers translations of the VALIRK
Burvesiiance reports and = repars of the border crossing which we have received
to datos. The weekend prior to his trip into the USSK Sundvik spent im
Yorvakosk’t with his fiancee, hence there are no reports covering thie periud.

tony

Ze We have now named froa the travel lists which wo cet every two veoks
mad which list ell travelers soing te and coming from the doviet Unicon that
Aratoli) Klimov went to the USdK on 9 April, cromsing the border at Yainikhala
(railroad orceatng point), ihetber he has retumed to Finland we do not know

at thio pednt. since Alinev's travel coincides with Sundvik'n, 10 is poneitie
that there is sone connection.

$o Baxry Alfonse SUBLVIK, formerly VISTEXLIED®*, wan born on 19 Septender
3930-dn Helsinkt aid lives at Stenbiokinkatu 4o 4 29, Holainkie te ta divorced
bub has reportedly centioned the possibility of revarrying (jreeent flencee io
Hilkke Kyllikkd TUCMINKNS*, noo KANTYIA). Mis comnoata standing iy conasdered
goed as he has omed an autenobile fer a niwber of youre and alvaye dresres

quite well. rolitiesl ly be is Co. avrvative und hes given the unieretending
that hia leanines are toward the weet,

de An alitaciennte we

Nan ar piven omar ATNCATON
Wow By Wie seas an 99
Cd oni atte BKORST


SORTRTIER TON TEBE TER STWBEL ENS HO.

CONTINUATION OF ‘
DISPATCH H SiC 4ET | Lo ary

4. 48 attachwents ve sro incl.ding further biopraghia date on Sandvik
Die caxily, and aoet of tre nases that have come up in this invest! mtion.
Aloo attached are trenelations of the VaALJEK surveillance reparte, as stated

dn poragrayh 1.

TROTHY 1. BASSET

Attashnants su"?
1 copy as atated
above.

im pare 4

Metribution:

origs & 3 = C/ok (w/atte) y7it,
2 TIRES way af atts)

g ee i i [Colesnnmuee ry |

