# 104-10513-10091

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10513-10091

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

5 January 1964

ME PRANDUM TOO THE RECORO

FROM

LarTeaco F. Barker

SUBJECT &

27 Docerber 1963

1.

27 Doceabar.

1 sooting with Lal was heid in Bie car froe 2000 untll 2140 houre

2. GITAl- reportad on the recent 11M1ng Of Terese PROEYZA Promea

8.369 6

end this vas sada the subject of tuo cables to Headquarters in row of her

I portanco la tho 1490) operatione (See NEXT 7623 and MEXI 7625) -

3. Log was saked for perther deiall en Siira Duranta atatonents ro

iP-7969

te viole of Leo Harrey Oguld do no Lubar Crasulato In Septerber

Ho had no further informatios to pier stuui ünly but reportod-that S1lria

bad not rotarned to work at tha Consulars sinco her roleaso fron arrast tho

this was reported to HAS. (S0o MaXI 7615)

i13tS

Califorala voro triod without rogults. he painto vill do roquested fron

HOS.

reported on the follaring additional topicar

2.31-2 bed recolrod as of that dato only one Christaas/Non Feari

,8r00t1o8 card fron a Maxlean Doverment official.

In past jears he rocafred

largo numbers of those cards. Tha cas cesa croy the Marican sub-directer of

(Cultural Ralatloas, IDascribes this to the resentrent caused anong Mordcas

officialdon by to strong noto receired fros Raul ROA, Cuban FOMIN, In regard

to tho dutention of silvia duran. Agrarensly word had bess passed to Mordcan

aficials that they vero to 81r0 the abans the coid shouldar.

Do ROIdOlSO RETES, a Modern citizen no worke in Cuba for the Cuban

Teatro Polkloriço, has recently in tours.

Ho eald that fidol CASTRO had recently

roaried that cuba ghould use its theatrical group to eary dollars abroad. REYES

Bald that a M. FLANC:ON and six othat Parislan empresarios connoctod vita the

Teatro dà Jas Naciones in Paris would bo travalliag to Cuba in tho near fataro

to xoo wast could bo dono about putting tha Cuban chou on the road.

Tho roll-moss Moxican cartoonist RIUS (true Dano Eduardo DEL, RIO)

who was ecbodalad to be & guest of the Cuban goveranent at the Anniversary

colobration as 2 Jau in Rayana, did nos got a Cuban visa. LA cablo cano into

The inbay adains ef this and aerias thaß RIts would bo notified dirootly by

a separato lotter of the ressons for this rofusal. Sinco RIUS in an outstanding

propagandiot for the comunist cause, stucould only conjacturo that this

dovelopment wis rolatad to the lon noto flap and the Cuban Government's dosire

to arold antagonizing the Madcan governient further, Inother cartoonist, wao

uses a nans scrothing liko RAM (1) also got the saro treatment.

do Rogello RODRIGUEZ al the Dabassy roseived sono gifts fros s00000e

Insido tho Crech Abassy at Onristasstico,

la sastrellan nevspapersar nemod Jullen or Jalllan ROERTSON vas

SECRET

f. 1.373

• . ..

P-6019

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MATERING LOADED AN CIA MEAURKNTENS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MENBESS

FILE: TITLE/NAILER/VOLUNE:

CEDRICLEZ LOPEZ, FELENO

285332615

VOL. I

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM: _

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD ACENLY DOCUMENTS

DATE

DATE

RECEIVED

RETURNED

15 sc 7)

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIENING OFFICIAL

GULER SEiK

Carls Bal

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1996

WA MISTORM AL REVIEM PROGRAMA

NO DOCUNESTS WAY BE COPIED OR REIOVED FROM THIS FILE

-.

---

