104-10262-10385| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

5
i}

ry)
meadvuaricso traces

ACTION Biu.UiRED: FTL 4
RLYERERCE: UPGA-24799 ee

1,  Bercqvartors traces on the Subjects of refercsce and the
Budsom Inctitute follow:

A. Alberto LLEMAB Capsrgo (201-102576) vss bora in Bogota,
3 duly 1908. Me Left school at the aye of aeventoen to became a :
Journaitut. Re traveled to Argentina ond lived in Buenos Aires for
three yexrz (1926-28) sriting for verioes Argentine periodicsls,
Big political corcer Legsa upon bis return to Colombia im 1929,
Lwben be vas appointed soaretary of the ithoral Party 1930-23)" and
Fecetved trencadvun ispetus under the segis of Alfonso LOPEE,
“[gperst Party leader and former Predigent of Coloabie (1536-38 spd
1942-433. eubseyacn.tlr, LUXRAS served jm the Mattons) Mouse of
Reprerentativea (1951-34),. Bhen elfomso LOPET wee innugurated Preé~
- téent in 1034, be tons LLKEAAS ieto his goverment as Secretary
Genoral of the Presiconcy (1834-55), sd lator mace him Miaiater of-
Goverment trea 1345 to 1046, Tae letter year be veo sade Minister
ef Zoreigu Affaire, ve well ss Yirst Vice Preaident of Colombis,
iis pabdlic service culminsted then im his accession to tho Preei-
doxcy on tho renicnation ef Prenident LOPBE ia 1945. After dis~-
okerging tho dutics of Chief txeoutive for a year (1945-46), RLERAS
wae clected Secretary Genorsl of the Pan Asericarm Union in 1347, 8
post shich he hold until 1954, Re then resigned sud returned to
Colceabiz to accept the position of Rector (President) of the - ~
University of The indea (1955-56). Devoting himself once sgais ta ~
politics, LLERAS began eriting « column in the Literal Daily EL
Ea todor. Im bis columna be strongly eriticized tho Nojag Fegize
TASSI-RIY and called for the roturm of constitutional govermment im.
Colozbis, In Usrch 1956, he vas elewtod President of the Biberal
Brrty end shortly thresfter (June 1986) travelled to core ad 226.3
conversations with Lavrseno GOMES, a leader of the
Derty aus forwor Prevident of Colombie (1950-53), These tve o yeitt~
\ deel leaders — a senifesto condennin, the bate regize ont

£

Ceouriasaa)

wrov-0130

,201-102578 a excant.

lyre
a

= ¥N/C/R1/08
© WH/C/ESEC
= 201-308736

wee L.


“sei ist2 few tne veri tliiahmest ch a coel{tton coeervercat 1& Caloabta
taregen bi-psrtionn afferts, Feue Bowie 1956 to Sedruery 1057
I2dRAG Gereed 6 a Unites Extlona Chserver to misiniiea the, Gamgar ia:
oivertiou,

Luixas 1s deseribed. as .a ckhawpice ofthe Pan Averiaam ceuse.
aad “us beicg very (ricadly to the United States aud a firm beliover
im the testuca type covcerssy. ate

Altbougt be did pot couplets Bis education aed bas me formal
Gegrve, be bas long Leem sddreseed ue “doetor" as e matter of courtesy
Ba dues, bowever, ave honorary dgxrees fren several ColomDiem waiver-|
sities as val) ae irce tbo University of Califoraia, fo cpeeks
Moglieh ond french, te sarried to the former Yerte PEGA (azegnter of a
Aate Procident of Guile) and hes four ehileres.

Ou_34_Fehruary_1958,

| LLLSRAS_was_elected President
Coloubis, (There bas been co operational interest: im kim sinew, /

io RB, Thote ore so Ber@yearters or LFE.6O traces en the Red
Imatitute per se, hovever, LEKEGO files contais derogatory. taforns tt:
@2 Severs) peabeors of the tastitete whieh L0RGO will furaish WOFLCE
22 we upscify whieh of the mcubers are of interest. If JENATE vinbed
this done, plese advise oa bachacd of the mexbers informetien is ra~
brat

¢. There sre ne tasatsfisnre eee - tte other nace
of parugroph & of reference, .

. 2. Eseéquarters defers to JEVAVE recerding ABRASL/I geture
saacoiation with the iastitate.

Ristribettoss
- _ ote & 2 - cas, ative
