# 104-10179-10023

## Page 1

104-10179-10023

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETUNE 70 CIA

Background Ues Orly

Do Not Roproduce

тажие

•CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Pay

77 H0Y-186912

DATE

10

Fr.O.4

ACTION&

I nor do

DIRECTOR

SECRET

ROUTING

DA I

Plenpey feel

INFO & DCI, D/DCI, DOP, COP, ADDP/A, S/C 2

AN OlE SIMON A NOTED 2120-16 or 601g

NOV 17 01272 60

PRIORITY

IN 43677

PRITY DIR CITE MASH 1694

INST

1. IN LATE EVE 15 NOU PARLETT ALIAS BENDER MET MANUEL RÃY FOR

MORE THAN THREE HOURS IN COMPLETE PRIVACY.

• 2. UNQUESTIONABLY, THE YOUTHFUL SOFTSPOKEN UNASSUMING ALMOST

HUMBLE RAY IS A NATURAL LEADER OF HIGHEST INTELLECT DEEPEST SINCERITY

AVD CONVICTION. HE WOULD BE A REMARKABLE ALLY OR OPPONENT. WHETHER

OR NOT HIS POLITICAL POSTURE IS COMPATIBLE WITH ODYOKE LONG RANGE

SELF INTERESTS IN CUBA AND/OR IN HEMISPHERE IS STILL SOMEWHAT OF.

ENIGMA TO PARLETI FOR REASONS GIVEN PARA FOUR BELOW.

BENDER EXPLAINED TO RAY THE "FLEXIBLE POLICIES"

• AND OUR

NOV-PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT OF NUMBER SIGNIFICAVI CASTRO OPPOSITION

GROUPS.

WHILE OUR COYPLETELY NOV-OFFICIAL SUPPORT GOES TO INDIVIDUAL

GROUPS. FOR THEIR INSIDE CUSA ACTIVITIES, WE WOULD PREFER HAVE CUBAN

! EXILE COMMUNITY TALK WITH ONE VOICE TO HEMISPHERE AUDIENCES. IN ANY

CASE, iS STAND READY TO ASSIST MRP TO EXTENT DESIRED AND FEASIBLE:

RAY 6HO APPEARS

!, EXCELLEUTLY BRIEFED BY HIS STAFF (CHIAS, ESTEVEZ

ET ALS ON BENDER GROUP ROLE SAID HE DELIGHTED COORDINATE COLLABORATE

AND ACCEPT ASSISTANCE ADVICE FROY CONTACTO JEFINITIVO WHOSE RELATIONS

WITH RAYS REPS APPEARED TO SE MOST EXCELLENT.

BEDDANLTIAN DU ATUCO THAN TUE ICELIA: ATTIRE DE BOAUIOITER

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIED NESSAGE

SURET

IN

43677

MASH 1694

PARC

4. UPON BENDERS SUGSESTIDW RAY THEN BEGAY OUTLINE MRO POSTURE

HIGHLIGHT OF WHICH ARS:

A. MRP DOES NOT DESIRE GO SACK TO 1949 CONSTITUTIGN. SOME OF

ITS BASIC PRINCIPLES WOULD OF COURSE BE RETAINED BUT FOR EXAMPLE

• PROVISIONS FOR ELECTORAL PROCEDURES AND MODUS OPERANDI OF JUDICIAL

WOULD HAVE TO BE CHANGED COMPLETELY, DRAFTING NEW CONSTITUTION NOT

TO BEGIN TILL AFTER FIRSI PERMANENT GOUT ELSCTED. THIS ELECTION TO

TAKE PLACE 18 MONTYS AFTER ESTASLISHMENI PROVISIOVAL GOUT.

B. PROV GOVI TO CONSIST OF SMALL LEGISLATIVE BODY

OF 30

HONORABLE CUBAYS OF ADEQUATE BACKGROUND.

C. CASTRO LAWS WHICH PASSED FOR "TOTALITARIAN PURPOSES" TO BE

REPEALED. LAWS WHICH WERE PASSED AT BEGINNING OF CASTRO REGIME

EXPRESSING "TRUE, REVOLUTIONARY SPIRIT" TO 35 PROMULGATED.

DO, STATE TO TAKE DIRECT ACTION IN THESE FIELDS: PUSLIC EDUCATION,

PUBLIC HEALTH, WATER SUPPLIES, AND OTHERS.

E. STATE TO TAKE ACTION IN AREAS WHERE PRODUCTION IS CONTROLLED

BY MOVOPOLIES AND WHERE "ECONONIC ACTIVITIES DO NOT OFFER PRIVATE

INVESTMENT EITHER IMMEDIATE OR ADEQUATE INCENTIVE.

F. STATE TO REGULATE PRIVATE INVESIMENT.

•G. PUBLIC UTILITIES TO SE NATIONALIZED. RAY CITED ESPECIALLY

AMERICAN OWNED ELECTRIC AND TEL CUMPANIES. ADSQUATE COMPENSATION TO

BE MADE. (COMMENT: UPON PARLETT QUESTION WHAT SOULD HAPPEN FOR

EXAYPLS TO KING RANCH, ESSO ETO RAY SAID CRITERIA NOT YET

ESTASLISHED AND THAT PAZOS NORTING ON INIS. MORE DETAILS ON ALL

ABOVE TO BE REPORTED UPON PARISIT RETURN HOOD

5.

AFTER POLITICAL TALI, DISIUSSION TURVED TO PSYCHOLOGICAL

ASPECIS OF REVOLUTION.

RAY LANES KEEP MAP AT LESS AND MENORY LOOK.

SEUnEI

DEPONICTION BY OTHER TIN THE ISSUINÒ DFFICE IS PICTiBITED

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFIED NISSAGE

SECT

IN

43677

MiSH 1694.

PAGE

LACK NEMBER TO BE GIVEN SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES, EACH MSMBER TO

FEEL THAT HE IMPORTANT PART OF REVOLUTION WITH VERY PERSOVAL DIRECT

IRREVOCABLE STAXE IN IT. (COMMENTE RAYS SINGERITY, COMPASSION

COUPLED WITH HARD PRASYATIC APPROACH IS UNDOUBTEDLY IMPORTANT

INGREDIENT HIS LEADERSHIP CAPACITY.)

6. RAY ASHED GENDER WHETHER IT ALL RIGHT START FUND DRIVE IN

CUBA FOR PURPOSE MEET EXPENSES IN CUBA AND THOSE OF EXILE MRP. IN

REALITY MONEY RAISED WOULD REMAIN IN CONTRY WITH BENDER MAKING

AVAILABLE IN DOLLARS ONE FOURTH OF PESOS THUS RAISED TO EXILE MRP:

BENDER TEMPORIZED. WOULD IT BE ALL RIGHT START FUND DRIVE IN PBPRIME.

BEN DER AGREED. COULD MRP GET SID, ODE BY NEXT WEDNESDAY? THIS

TO LAST TILL 1 JAN WHEN BENDER WOULD GET BUDGET ESTIMATE. BENDER

S AMOUNT

MADE COMMITMENT.

COULD KACHIRP-) BE IN TOUCM JIM SMITH ON MILITARY MATTERS.

BENDER CONCURRED. (COMMENT: HERE RAY MILDLY BUT YET QUITE BITTERLY

CRITIZED ABORTIVE DROP TO SINESIO WALSH.)

8 RAY WILL DISCUSS WITH MRO CARDONA POSSIBILITIES ARRIVE AT

FORMULA CREATE SOME KIND OF UNIFIED EXILE BODY. (SEE SEPARATE MESSAGE

THIS ITEM.S

9. SUMMARY: IN PARLETT OPINION NET RESULT THIS MEETING WAS GLEAR

ESTABLISHMENT AND RECOSUITION DEFINITIVE PRIVATE PBPRIME LINK WITH MAP.

DOOR REMAINS OPEN FOR SOME KIND OF RELATIONSHIP WITH AMRASP.

APPROX 183 ANTI CASTRO GROUPS, WE HAVE POLARIZED, ARE IN DIRECT

CONTACT AND SUPPORT, THE ONLY REALLY SIGNIFICANT THREE GROUPS:

ATRASE, MRP AND THE DISSIDENT MAR. THIS IN LINE CURRENT ON POLICY.

QUESTION REMAINS DEGREE OF SUPPORT WE TO GIVE MRP IN VIEW ITS

POLITICAL STANCE WHICH NEEDS FUSTHER ANALYSIS. SIF FULL SUPPORT TO

SECRET

REPRMIFTION AY OTHER THAN THE ISSING DEFIRE IS PAOHIRITEN

3

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFICO NESSAGE

SHEET

IN

AMSH 1694

43677

PACI

BE GIVEN OUR POLACT BUDGET MAY STAND SOGE UPWARD REVISION. I

ACCORPING CONSIDERABLE NUMEER CUBANS DE VARIOUS POL PERSUASION PARLETT

SAW EURING, THIS TRIP ALL GROUPS SEEM NOW LOOKING TO BENDER AND CO

TO SHOW PREFERENCE FOR ONE ABOVE NAMED TRIO.

MOST wILL THEN DECIDE

TO JOIN, FOR HOW LONG WE MAY BE ABLE MAINTAIN OUR CURRENT FLEXIBILITY

RIVAINS PROBLEMATICAL.

END

OF

NESSAGE

DEDOMI

SECRET

RY

STUER THAN THE ISSUIN REFIGF, IS PRRHIBITED

---

