# 104-10179-10079

## Page 1

104-10179-10079

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIDEO MESSAGE

S-E-E-R-E-T

• DiRECTOR

03

per, 0/DC1, DOjO, COP, ADOPiA, SiC ?

:5EF-12 Dig4à Gi

i PRIOSITY

IN 1119)

CITE: HAVA 6113

-D!P.

INTO

NASH

"IET MACLEÄR

DARE

DIR. 42903 (OUT. 65842)"

HAVA SO09 (IN 47223) 4

MENDEZA CONTACTED OLIEN NICHT 9 SEPT REPORTED FOLL

A.

GROUP IN ESCANEÇAY FOR WHOM WEAPONS INTENDED IS LED BY SINESIO

GUAS ANO COMPOSED APPSOX 50U NEN MOST DE WHOA MAVE CARAND RIFLES. GROUP

CONTROLS AREA AND WOULD FE MOST DIFFICULT DISLOOGE: FOACES IN ESCAMERAY

CCULO DE BUILT UP RAPIDLY TO @, DOO MEN IS ARMS. AND ASMO WERE AVAILAGLE.

•E: GROUP WILL BE EXPECTING AIR DROP ON 15 SEPT AT 2100 HOURS LOCAL

TIME: WILL TE SEAL SUCH THEIR MORALE IS DELIVERY NOT MADE AND FURTHER DELAY

OCURS: (STATION RECOARENOS EVERY EFFORT F. MADE TO MEET THIS TARGET DATE.)

C. GROUP MUST INTERESTED IN RECOLLESS RIFLES. ALSO ANXIOUS RECEIVE

SHORT HAVE LOUIPENT FOR VOICE TRANSMISSION TO CUBAN PEOPLE.

U: RAY HOPES HAVE READY SIMILAR GROUPS IN NORTH LAS VILLAS (FOR

EVENTUAL CUTTINE iSLAND IN HALF AS WAS DONE LAST DAYS OF SATISTA REGINE!

AND IN ORGANO MOUNTAINS OF FINAR DEL RIC, HE OPTIMISTIC ABOUT CHANCES

DEVELOFINE ISLANO WIDE AREO RETELLICIA

* WITH MANPOWER AVAILABLE iN SUPPARTER

¡BY ARIS AND SUFPLIES FROM ASTIDAD.

ELF OF MESSAGE.

S-E-C-s-i-;

REPRODUCTCN DE CINER iNAD THE DELIVO OICE IS PROMIBIED.

Cap:

---

## Page 2

CLASSIEND MESSAGE

SECRET

TiON

FO

PAGE 2

INTO

HAVA 6113

• IN 11109

CITE

C/S comicent: " Hgo, doing all possible to provide supply capabllity uning

Cuban pilots. Would advise firm dato do soon as poasible.

44 Forwarded information on drop zone dad weapore requestod

by Ray's group in Escambray,

RIPRODUCTION AY OIMER THAN INE ISSUINO OIFICE IS FROHIBITIO.

Cary

---

