‘Tod fo074-10366) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992}

aan wl. . ; ee oe iene ~
©} wwcassirico |] BERNAL conripentiat "secre:
: ROUTING. AND ida SHEET —
CE/SO Summary ON? Contact Report with eon 7 ‘
FROM : ie Brewer NO x 9816 ae
cfct/so ROber  (s67 [os =o oe

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whe:
[rorwascen | te whom, Drow a fins ocress column efter each commer:

GSO Interaal Use Only

This information is not to b
disseminated outside CI/SO
without prior approval of
Chief, Special Operations
Group, cl Staff.

TO: (Cicer designeion, room eumbor, ond ..,
Sailing) at

Originated by: W. E. Gavaghe
TYPED by  “__-FE/OPS

Based on: |

Doc: : :

Date: : ce ie
Filed: : : ee
SOURCE: Cee ee
Cryptonym {MPTROTKA-7_ ,

Field ‘Station; |
ACTION:

DISTRIBUTION:

TRTEX NUMERICAL FILE (recorc

77 Subject site qafmatca-7.

ae

Z7 other: ~ oe

PS 7

te eae . i EE date



ap

_/EX=9816°
1 March 1972
2 5 yRN TO CIA
parkground Use _ :
\ Do Not Reprodui

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD : : op .

SUBJECT: Contact Report of Meetings with(MBTROIKA-7 in :

: few York City on 14 February and in Virginia on :
: 17-18 February 1972 ae * :

._02 4, This memorandum covers recent meetings with

(MBIROIKA-7 in New York City and in the Northern Virginia

area. The meetings were héld under secure conditions and
there were no security incidents noted.

2. Operational:

a : 7 . outs

"s persistent srishin to locate
and join a pro-Mao Study group finally paid off.g?The manager
of the China Bookstore finally broke down under (M)7's
campaign and put her in touch with a local USCFA study

‘roup under the leadership of Mrs. Susan Warren, aka Frank.

o 7 has attended one session and, based on her initial
observation, provided the assessment of Mrs. Warren attached
hereto at the undersigned's request °Y{N}7 believes she has 2
hit it off with Mrs. Warren because of her understanding :
of dialectics (thanks to Andy Ness's tutoring) and, consequently, 7
she was instructed to attempt to develop a social-business a
relationship with herg: With respect to the other members i
of the study group,(M)>7 claims that the situation, to date, i
has not been conducive to ferreting out the identities of ~ i i
these individuals, but. that she hopes that as the group :
continues to meet, some rapport will be established with her uy
classmates. z . a

>
a b. New School and language instruction: 607 :

has formally enrolled at the Graduate Faculty of the New :
School for Social Research in a course entitled “Comparative i
Legal Systems," which studies the theories, institutions, ann
concepts, customs and which purports to analyze and compare 7
the law and the administration of law in selected countries,
included China, Japan, Vietnam, Germany, the U.S. and the
Soviet Union 2” (7 will also enroll in a French language
instruction course in the near future.

08 637



(pd

: c. Ramparts' Tours - New York Nedia Workshop's
' Womens' Tour: “Acting on a suggestion proposed by Mr. Fazon

' £irst reaction tothe tour was t

. deter her from following through. It was then that(}7

Horn, CI7S0, the undersigned raised the subject of the Women's
Tour which is scheduled to visit London, Paris (where they
will meet the DRV peace delegation) and Rome from 27 May - ;
25 June 1972 with@D7 and instructed her to attempt to determine
the interest in,“and likely composition of, the New York :
group and explore the possibility of joining such a group he
and explore the possibility of joining such a group.2Q7's
hat the cost ($699, which
price includes airfare, trains, hotels, etc.) was too high.
It was explained to her that the cost factor should not

voiced some concern that the timing of the tour may2interfere
with her own PCS departure (we had been talking in terms of
mid-May or June 1972 up to this point). It was made clear
to her that no fixed date has been established as yet for
her PCS departure and that the aforementioned tour may well
prove to be.of operational interest, e.g. meeting the DRV
delegation and continuing the staging process prior to her
actual departure.“(M}7 said that she understood and would
look into the matter. She did not believe she would have
any difficulty in covering for funds should she find herself
included on the tour. : :

ot .
0) 7 produced q

a copy of the first issue of SEAR, a bi-weekly newsletter 7
ut_o w York Uni i ii. i :
Committee, Box 59, Loeb Student Center i e, :

> i i one of s 5

of this mimeographed new
left publication. A copy of this first issue is attached
hereto. - One of MS7's articles will appear in a subsequent
issue of SEAR. o2 aioe :

22 e. JBMINIMUM Testing and Training: As part of
@7's covert training and-assecsnent tn anticipation of her
foreign assignment, the undersigned arranged for two members
of the Psychological Assessment Branch, TSD (Messrs. DeMarco.
and Saunders) to administer a JBMINIMUM test to her and to
brief her in the use and value of the JBMINIMUM test in a ea
field situation. This training and briefing took place on
18 February in a safehouse in.N. Arlington, Va. (A copy
of the JBMINIMUM. assessment XO 7_will be made a matter of
record in her official dossier) £2097 was introduced as :

“Miss Julie" to members of the PAB/TSD for purpose of this
test and briefing. (Mr. Andy Ness devoted the afternoon of i
18 February withOD7 for the purpose of continuing her training

ew ence

2

we att or gm,


in dialectics, which she has found to be particularly useful
in understanding the study group discussion and to permit
her participation.)

2. Administrative: : :

: a. Salary and Operatidnal Advances. The undersigned
pataQo7 her January salary on a $500 advance on 17 February

1972. She also received:a $300 advance on 14 February 1972.

These advances were necessary because of the experises Se

had incurred in enrolling at the New School and to pay for

her French lessons. (One of the reasons (\ 7 was brought down

to the Washington area was to straightén out a problem

she was having with her accounting. Hopefully, she is now

convinced that she had been receiving all that was due her.)

o?b, ‘Tax Administration and Notification of Personnel
Action. (M}7 was notified of the change in the tax assessment
and of the adjustments in her salary due to the legislative
pay increase and the withholding of premiums for hospitaliza-
tion.

3. Actions to be taken. _ to be taken.

a. ays assignment abroad. ce the undérsigned's
discussions with Nessr Flitcroft and(Cornish) a ztelepouch
dispatch will be sent.’ Statio proposing (M 7's
assignment "te @angkok) primarily for housekeeping purposes,
but with a regional mission to perform. (The undersigned
is presently working on this message. PE :

b. Concelament device. G7 requested a conceal-
ment device for her microdot viewer which the undersigned will
attempt to obtain from TSD. Additionally, the undersigned
will request TSD to provide. concealment devices for (M)7's

general use as a storage for papers and funds. . oe
ete : _ William E. Gavaghen
: : FE/OPS
Attachments
.As stated
3

2297 .
