‘iiod-t0408-10027) * | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
eae

x sesaciey

Pant a

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director (Plens)
suByECT 1 Related Mission Directive for Mexico

1. Attached te the revised Related Mission Directive for

Mexico,
2. Your approval is requested.

E
a ate eh

cONcURs ;

PAE (lignag) $M. INES



13-00000 : oe -

RELATED MISSION DIRECTIVE FOR MEXICO

I. GENERAL PROVISIONS

A ¥ational Policy. The long-range national policy objec
ves 0 @ 0.8. Government toward Mexico are to reduce
to an ineffectual level the influence of international
Communism, to encourage demecratic government, and tc
keep the Mexican government friendly and favorably in-
clined toward U. 8. policies, Purther guidance is given
in the current OCB Regional Operations Plan for Latin
asnerica,.

. Operational ig. The Station's priaary emphasis.
Wit Sontinue e ba placed on Slandestine (collection 24
aN rations and covert action operations & the
ino-Soviet bloc, Cuban, and Comsunist elaments in Hexicc.

c. Ghanges in the RMD. Thies basic policy instruction for
Cr) es in oo has been revised in light of the
Station's last Annual Assesement of Progreas Report and
to reflect more accurately operational conditions, capa-
bilities and direction. In view of the importance and
threat presented by Communist Cuba to U. 3. interests in
Latin America, coverage cf Cuban revolutionary activities
in Mexico has been made a specific requirement under
Priority A. Priority B objectives and tasks include
refinenents cf desired afferts and alac provide for covert
action operations against Cuban targets in Hexzico. ‘The
former task for production of motion phtures and their
distribution has been deleted, as it 18 no longer a valid
requirement; two former tasks pertaining to the possible
use of foreign diplomats have been combineds- to t
develop young potential political leaders ( ER) | has?
been added. Two previous ority C objectives have been
eliminated, as there is no @stablished Kexican intelli-.27
gence servicel and the Station regularly repertsa on
activities 6T the Riceverage of Chinese
Communists has been raised to Priority B coineident with
the elimination of the former Pricrity C section.

D. Contingency Reporting. In addition to the specific
objectives Bet Torte in Section II, the Station will from
time to time be called on to attempt to satisfy Intelligence

8



13-00000

Guides and Intelligence Directives, but it is expected
that these requirementa be satisfied uttilaing existing
assets. Of particular interest cm a@ continuing basis

ip information on: (a) any indications that Mexico may
be used as a base for clandestine activity directed

t the U. 8. (CI Book Messages 88 and 115); (b)

eetivities of non-bloe intelligence services, especially
those that. are potentially harmful tc U, 35, interests;
(e) the plotting of revolutionary groups according to
their current importance in attempts to overthrew the
re of their respective Latin American countries;

a current alignment and activities of political 24
oreés with the petential for assuming control of the
Mexican dovernment &) U. 3. Commnists residing in
Mexico; and (f) the eniah/Coamunist greup.

It will be noted that certain previous contingency
reporting requirements have been, amended ao follows:
The former levy for reporting on the stability of the
Mexican Government has been changed to 8 more realiatic
and memmingful statement as reflected by (d) above.
This modification is appropriate, as political changes
in Mexico are most likely eccur within the framework
of titutionality. The Serious charge for reporting
on [secret shipments of strategic materials from Hexic 27
to Bloc countries is no longer specifically required and
has been deleted.

II, OBSECTIVES
PRIORITY A
1. Obtain information on Sino-Seviet blce plans and activi-

ties in Nexico, including those of bloc inteliigence
services.

a. Continue and, where possible, increase phyeical and
technical surveillance of bloc installations and
residences,

b. Trough controlied agent assets, identify and monitor
the activities cf bloc personnel; if conditions
warrant, attempt recrul t or defection of bloe
personnel,

)


13-00000

e. Continue CI operations against bice intel iigence
personnel . .

2. Seek to reduce and, if possible, eliminate Communist
and leftist contrel or influence inf key governmental 2+
andl non-governmental organisations, politics) parties,
masa media _outleta, and other clementa that influence
public or Attics, opinion and policiés.

& Develop political action penetration
i uU

in order te disrupt and reduce

thelr capacity for carrying out acticn harmful to

U, S. abjectives and interests.

‘o. Expese and discredit illegal cr subvergive Sino-
Bovlet bloc gctivities and representatives in Mexico,
as wel. the activities and peracnnel of inter-
national) and iccal] Communist front organizations.

os

e. Identify, discredit, and if pessible eliminate

Comummmista and pro-Commmists from strategic positicna

in’ educational institutions,

_________Tiiiduatrial and agricultural enterprises,
gee Ad
a. Provide support and give guidance to individuals and
orgenizations that can be induced to produce and dis-
lane anti-Communist, pro-Pree wor other aeaie

a
redic, televiaion, newspapers, or ey madia, 2Y
and carry out itleal action operat: against
Communist or o enti-U. S. elements.

e. tify, develop, and utilize important nen-Communist
a“Q@olitieal, tusiness or sivig leaders /to carry out pro-
WN pagenda, economic or political acti ageinst Com-

unist influence and induse them to support views
ooingiding with U. 5. Goverment policy interests.

£. Continue to support and guide anti-Ccmmnist
organizations, publications or agents; *~
and when necessary, develop additicnai asseta in key
in Mexico City and selected provinces}

a4

CD


13-00000 »

( €
ay
&. Dsvelop and support bovert press. asaets( cn the
ateffs of | | ay

a. lop aceess to individu: and organizations
24an the labor field support nen-Commnist
eaders and groupe in key untons.( 247

3. Obtain information(on the
Communist front a4
orgenixations and groups
[ | and non-Communist end/ox anti-U, 3.
groups that may be susceptible to exploitation by Inter-
national Commniga,

< a. ot and ae exieting penetrations in the
RS

end the wy /
bd. Maintain penstrations of the! land seek
penetrate the anti~ENCINA wing of the) 27
0, Develop and, if conditions warrant, recruit a key
source in the] eapable of moniter- 2+
ing cultural eontacta between the } end bloc

diplomatic inatellations.

a tinue to monitor the activities of geleoted
Sgonmnist-influenced and front groups 27

through the penetration in the 1€ conditions
warrant, make seiected recruitmenté in the Rt
or groups;

4. Continue to obtain information on Cuban Revolutionary
ectivities in Mexico and support U. S. Goverment efforts
against the CASTRO regime.

&, Continue to conduct penetration operaticns of Cuban
Rnbassy and induce defections of Cuban diplomats.

ied
bd. Reoruit agents fin Hexicg for operational use in

©. Secure support of
for the conduct of operations against Cuba] 24

a. Continue to provide operational support for activities

©


13-00000 +

directed against the CASTRO regime in Cuba,

ar

@. Utilice propaganda(media, political action assets

and other covert means\ to combat the influence of
Cuben revolutionary ideologies in Mexico,

PRIORITY 5 at

1. Combat jultra-nationalistic and anti-U., 3, ectivities in
Kexice,s and propegandize the dangers of Cgemunion,

@. Utilize existing dedia and political action assets
to combat anti-U. S, propagenda or activities.

ZY
b. Utilize existing dedia and political action assets to
vee prevent or negate collaboration between (altra-nationelig
: and Communitete. aq

Pe
ce, Utilize Gedia ané political acticn\ assets to prevent
or negate the socio-economic and cultura) penetration
plans or activities of the Sino-Seviet bloc,

24 AM
a. Spot hud develop for future jovert collaboration young
local figures who show potential for political loacer-
eee ship and who may be influenced to become generally
se favorable to U. 3. interests.

2
2. Obtain information on the(georet intentions end activities
of the in foreign affairs, particularly
toward the U, Sj, the Sino-Soviet bloc, and Cubs.

24

&. Continue to develop find influence high leveX contacts

an the) | partievlarly the Office of
Gud the ry

3. Cellect information on the dino-Soviet bloc,

@. Gontinue penetration of airline and steamship offices
and 6fficial government agencies/to obtain advance
information on trevellera. 24

&. Heoruit or obtain the willing ccllateration of selected
travellers to bleo countries, especially those who will
vesain in bloe countries fer an extended period and
uho may be om scilentifie missions,

wa

‘Ue,


13-00000

@. Recruit thivd nationals and Letin fmaerican
diplomats to be assigned or trangferred ta blec
countries,

at
&, Obtain misetiong jintelligence on blos diplo-
matic traffic!

At
&. Obtain information ca the Chinese Commmisats in Mexico.

a& t, assees and recruit or develop sources in the
se community.

QV
b. Bqploit fhe files oafChinese living in
Rexieo and effect penetration of the

a4

Ye,
