# 104-10052-10107

## Page 1

1104-10052-10107

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF. 1992

SECRET

1070-113.

JAN C50

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief of Operations, DD/P

SUBJECT

: Project LIMPTY (Renewal)

•WH - Mexico

The attached project, originating in Wi Division, is

presented for renewal for the period 1 December 1959 through

31 November 1960.

The project provides for physical and photo-

graphic surveillance operations in support and exploitation of

other Mexico City operations, particularly those targetted at

Soviet personnel and installations.

Authority 1s

requested to obligate $34,910 from the

DD/P-WH Division operating budget:

$49,495 for

fiscal year

1950 and. $36,425 for fiscal 1961, subject to the availability

or funds.

sums include $61,910 compensation for five

contract agents (three

of whom serve as principal agents for

segments

of the project,

and sixteen support agents;

for vehicle maintenance

and commercial carrier travel; $7,500

for operational equipment; $5,000 for maintenance of

safehouses;

$2,000 for

additional sarehouse,

post office

vehicle rental; $1,000 exchange commodities;

contracts, etc.; and $2,000 for the purchase of

information, documents, payment of bribes, etc.

The attached renewal request, prepared

in the Division

and supported by

a project review prepared in the field, reviews

the activitias of the project during the past year and present

a detailed breairdown of the funds requested.

The project

operates in three segments:

(a) Contract agent Oliver a.

SCANDLING is an independent asset who is used to follow-up

and

exploit operational iniormation on target personnel and installa-

tions, to case various installations of interest, acquire pro-

perty,

etc.; (p) a photographic surveillance team, under prin-

cipal

ments

agent

anu

Raymond H. GERENDE, utilizing three houses of apart-

one

photo truck; and

(c a chusical surveillance teen

under

principal

agent Simon D:

CLACKETT, consisting of three

trained members

at the present time.

The attached renewal

request reviews

the activities and accomplishments of the pro-

ject in

terms

of these three

ject objectives.

segmants

and in relation. to pro-

SCANTLING's contribution to the collection

of operational information pertaining to Soviet personnel and:

installations is regarded by the Station as unique.

He also

02835.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECHET

trained CLACKETT in radio controlled

mobile surveillance.

SCANTLING also has rendered valuable

support to the LITACIT

operation

having gained

entry to the target under a fabri-

cated cover.

He

has

also cased and prepared reports on the

ITIABBY target in preparation for future operations and per-

formed investigations of numerous other Station targets

opportunity.

He investigated many

leads from other audio-

surveillance operations enabling the Station to maintain

current data

on various soviet contacts

and resulting in a

recruitment attempt which,

while unsuccessful, is believed

to indicate future potential along this line.

He has fur-

ther been used to develop radio procedures for the mobile

teams and to rent various properties in support of other

Station operations.

The, GERENDE segment, using three base

houses for photography, produced upwards

of 12,000 photo-

graphs during the

motion pictures

year.

One base has recently begun taking

of soviet personnel in the course

of conver-

sation which have been

forwarded to FI/D for possible exploita-

tion by lip reading analysis.

This segment also operates the

mobile radio surveillance vehicles. A mobile photography. sur-

veillance truck has been used during the project year for

coverage of various Station targets which do not warrant the

establishment of permanent photographic bases. GERENDE has

also served to rent post ortice boxes, hotel rooms, ete., in

support of other Station operations.

During the past oroject

jear CLICKETT, Who returned to Mexico in early April 1959

after Headquarters training, spent the following two months.

being trained by SCANTLING in mobile surveillance techniques.

He then undertook training of a four member team which was

judged ready

for operationel use toward the end of the project

year.

Two additional contract. agents, Wilma J. FIORDALISI and

Louise J. MACRINO, performed translation and

support functions.

4.

Appropriate staff conponents concur in recommending

renewal.

(a) elstafe notes that the CI value of the project

1s difficult to judge since it appears that much of the

mater a produce smal remarke stat one value do tae

project should

be Increased when

the CLACKEnE

surveit-

lance

team enters into

active. operation.

CI Starf sug-

gests

that

the Station

be queried as to

the pretext or

circumstances under which SCANTLING frequently visits

Inez. Parada de Moreno, the occupant of the property

adjacent to the soviet

inatallation:

SEORET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

(b)

FI/OPS notes that while

the project review pre-

sents a

clear

picture of the

aims

and objectives

of the

various

segments, it does not provide, except in the

case of SCANTLING, detailed indication

the value.or

userulness of the other segments, particularly the photo-

graphic activity.

FIJOPS requests that the Station

pro-

vide such an appraisal during the first quarter of 1960.

FI/OPS recommends strongly that the photo coverage be

reviewed from the standpoint of value and usefulness with

a view to determining whether the LILYRIC activity could

coverage conducted on a more selective a /023 notes

materially affecting overall usefulness.

that, in the absence of further proof of usefulness, the

color photography and moving pictures appear to be

an

unnecessary

luxury.

FI/OPS commends the careful handling

of the CLACKETT segment and requests that the next project

action include examples

of the

team's progress.

I recommend renewal of Project LIEMPTY as

wIth attention to the staff commente in paragrein 4 absented

W. logot rage

GEORGI

Chief

Foreign Intelligence

Approved:

ichard

COP-DD/S

Date

Attachment:

Project Outline LINIPTY

stair coordination:

For C/FI/OPS

-s/R. Bryant

For

CI Staîr -s/R. Brown

for C/CCD

-s/E: Youngblood

SEGRET

---

