# 104-10062-10207

## Page 1

1104-10062-10207

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

Chies of Station, Mexico City

INFO.

Chief of Station, Crut

FRUM

chief, bE

VIA: Chief,

SULLECT

Operational/DIZIAG

Edouard HAIS

ACTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES

PROCESSINC

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO

NO IMDEXIMO REQUIRED

OMLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXIMO

MICROFILM

REFLRENGE: (BEIR-2881, dated 9 November 1965 (not sent Mexico)

1.

We wish to alert Mexico Station to the probable •

arrival of Edouard HATS (201-270072), Czech Film Representa-

who may attend the forthcoming

KUBeR has asintained an Interest in Subject Slace 1959 as a

Palm festival in Acapulco.

result of an amicable social relationship which developed

between Subject and a KUBARK staffer, Kenneth N. Rupard.

Because Headquarters believes that any further developuent

of: Subject would best be handled by Rupard in view of the

we do not intend to tako any action

Moxico.

we wouLd, nowever, apprecIate

being advised of any information which comes

attention concerning.

the activities and associations of

Subject while he is in Mexico.

2. leadquarters has no information on the dates of the

1963 Acapulco Fil Festival and would appreciate being advise.

whether the festival will take place as in 1962, frow 24

November • 6 December.

For Beirut: If Rupard has no reservations about

personally corresponding

with subject

suggest that he

seni

reetings to Subjoct per para 3 (g) of reference.

ROSe

Ergood

Oliver

G. Galbond

Distribution:

2 - COS, Mexico City

2 - COS, Beirut

DESENSITIZED

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND MUMBER

261-27007đ

DATE

18 901

12791:

HMMW-12121

CLASSIFICATION"

Exched od astoni

NASAY

13 Navender 1963

HQS FILE NUMBER

OFFICE

EE/C

irernal Distribution:

2 - WH/3/MEXI

-.. NE/AA/L

2 - BE/C

(201 - 270072)

OFFICE SYMBOL

201-270072

ORIGINATING

19rn9z?.

constance y. Terry

CODRDINATING

mak

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME

13 NOV 1963

Jack

Fieldhouse

1571:

C/EE/C

NE / AA/L

Lite

WH/ 3/MEXI

Fuckheat

OFFICE TAGS

DATE

RELEASING

AS EIGNATURE

04389

1:0:

* 53

USE PREVIOUS EDIT:91:

---

