# 104-10118-10334

## Page 1

104-10118-10334

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SEGRET

12-13

8

IN 1050

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Ions, DD/P

(Renewal)

PROT

1.

The attached

project, originating in Wi Division, is

presented for

renewal

for the period 1 December 1959 through

31 November 1960.

The project provides for physical and photo-

graphic surveillance operations in support and exploitation of

other Mexico City operations, particularly those targetted at

Soviet personnel and installations.

2.

Authority is requested to obligate $84,910 from the

DD/P-WA Division operating budget:

$43,435 for

fiscal year

1960 and $36,725 for fiscal 1901

subject to the availability

of funds.

These

sums

Include $6i, 910 compensation for

five

contract

agents: (three

of whom serve as principal agents for

segments of the project), and sixteen

support agents; $3,500

carrier travel; $7,500

operational equipment;

maintenance of three

safehouses; $2,000 for

box.

riod vehicle antenn

money,

Intormatton, dodbats,

commodities; $2,000

,000 for the purchase.of

Dibes, etc.

and

request, prepared in the Division

in

the field, reviews

the

activities of the project during

the

past year

and

present

a detailed brealdown of the funds requested.

The project

operates

in three

segments:

(a) Contract agent Oliver

C .

SCANTLING iS

an

independent asset who is used

to foilow-up

and

exploit operational information

on target personnel and installa

Gions,

to cage

various installations of interest, acquire pro-

perty, etc.; lo, a photographic surveillance team,

under prin-

utilizing three houses or apart-

under principal agent simon D. CLACKET?, consisting of three

Grained members at the present time. the attached renevei

request reviews the activities and accomplishments of the pro-

1506 in terms of these three sermes

win relation ce 1ro

ject objectives. SCANTuINGle,

or

installasions ie r

PROMIBITED"

Soviet personnel and

as unique. He also.

SECRET

0004042

PAGE

COPY NO.

8f 68

17671

---

## Page 2

14.00000 !

SECRET

GrainOd ULACKETT in radio controlled

mobile curveillance.

SCAMELEIG

also nas. rendered valuable

support to the

LITAO TI

operatdon having zained entry do tho

cated

cover.

Ic has aldo, cased

and

target under

fabri-

prepared reports

on : Cho

target in preparation

to3

future

operations and

per-

Corned

inrestigations of

nunerous other

Station

targets of

opporcunity.

He investigated

many

leads

from other

audio-

surveillance operations

enabling the station to

maintain

current

Gaba

on

various

soviet

contacts

and

resulting

in a

recruitment

attenpt which,

while

unsuccessful,

so indicate future potential

along

believed

this line.

He has fur-

cher boon used to develop radio procedures for the mobile

teams

and to rent various properties in support or other

Station operations.

The CaRgot segment, loing three base

nouges

Sor photography, produced upwards

o€ 12,000 photo-

graphs suring the year.

One base has recently begun taking

motion dictures of

satio?

Soviet personnel

in

the course of conver

walsh have been

forvardod to TI/D for possible exploita-

non or 115 readina

analyals.

This segment aloo operates

the

mobile

nadio surveillance venicles.

A mobile photography

veillence bruck has been used during the project year

SUr-

for

coverage sa various station varuets which do not wacrane the

soment of permanent photographic bases.

GERENDE has

also served to rent post office boxes, hotel

roons, ete.,

in

support of other Station operations.

During the past project

year Cancers, who returned to Mexico in

early sprit. 1959

efver Headquartern training, spent

the following two months

being

cathed by

SCANDING in mobile

surveillance techniques.

He ther

judged

undertool training of a pour

member

ready

cean which was

for poonational uce toward the and of the projsct

year.

Pro additional

contract agents, Wilma j: FIORDADISI and

LOUISE J. PACKING; performed translation and

support functions.

iponopriate staff components concur in recommending

,2, 0r Stard notes that the CI value

of the project

ia 02221cult

to

judge since it

appears

foot much of

the

38603121

produced

rendine in the

Station for exploita-

tis:.

However,

CT 3ta42 renarks

molect should

that

the value

o2 the

be increased when

the

surveil

10020

bean enfers into ective

operationd di Juare sun-

gesta

Gned

the bracion be aueried as saigne pretent o?

circumstances under waien SCANTLING

freddently visits

1933 A93340 damosaan the ocoupant 0.

we property

ocent to the Soricb inatallation.

SELLET

0004043

. 616 3

2008

---

## Page 3

14.00000

SECRET

(b)ied/oes notes that while the

project review pre-

conto a clear picture of the aims

and objectives of the

varlous segments, it does not provide, except in the

cose of SoawfiNg, detailoú indication oí the value O

nocCulnese of the other segmente, particularly ne photo-

zaonic activity.

#1/026 equests that the Station pro-

Vide such an appraised during the tirat quarter or 1960.

27/OPS recommends strongly that the photo coverage

be

reviewed from the standpoint of value and usefulness with

• view to determining whether the tilYnic

activity could

not be safely eliminated

and coe additional photographic

corerage conducted on a more selective

without

maverially aftecting overall

usefulness.

110b:

2n toe dosence

of further proof of usefulness,

the

color photography and moving pictures appear to be an

unnecessary luxury.

FI/OPS commends

the

careful handiing

the

CLACKSM segment and requests

Shat the

next project

action include examples of the team's progress.

I recommend renewal of Project GIelPtY as

presented

wish estencion to the abar? commenterin paragraph l

above.

W. Pled Gage

Chief

Foreign Intelligence

Approved:

lichard kitis.

30P-DD75

Accachnery

Projoe!

Date

Staff Coordination:

For C/ST/onS

-S/R.

Bryant

For OF 609r2 -57K.

For C/30D

-s/D. Youngblood

0004044

23

01 68

---

## Page 4

SECRET,

REPRORUCTION

PROMIBITED

LIENPTY

PROJECT

Mexico City

STATION

REPRODUCTION

MARIBITED

icer

Meland (Goste

Willard C.

CURTIS, Chiet of Station

5. - REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

58-6-741

SEBAST

BS 90PY

EAGLE MARRIED

5 / NINA -22357

0064045

PAGE

COPY NO.

01_68

---

## Page 5

14-00000

I. CURREE BURCTIVES AND PRODUCEION RELATED LIPPERO

A. Olitar G. SCANILING Segment (in relation to project objectives.)

1. To collect operitional information pertaining to LINERICK personnel

and physial facilities:

SCANILING has continued to provido vorthuhile in-

coraiion in support of this objective, (See previous project review forwarded

by IIMIA-20052 of 18 October 1962.)

During the past year SCANTLING was used to

§ollow up leads produced by both LIFEAT' and LIENVOY in support of this objective.

In Jarican SCArLDiG provided, in blueprint detail, cosing reports on the

ai tro Soviet intelligence officers who are targets for Station technical

SCAnDLING also is used to sid the Station in maintaining current records

oí the residences

of Soviet personnel living in Mexico.

This is accomplished by

SCANTING'S fOllowuP o LIENVOY leads which indicate sovict interest in renting

specifie properties.

"To collect operational information pertaining to other targeto of op-

portunity, foreign official

instollations and porsonnel of intelligence interest

operating in Mexico."

SCANTLING has proved successful in providing information

on other cuation targets:

&. SCATLING obtained information on

a suspect Soviet

support agent which mao the basis of further Station operations

agsinst this target.

SCANTLING provided a casing of the former Yugosler Connercial

Office against, which the Station had planned a technical operation.

However,

this aite was ovacuated by the target mission before

plans were completed for this attemot.

..

SCATLING has conductiod detailed inescigations in various cases

involving possible agents or contrets o: hostile intelligence cer-

These cases vere of prime concon to station Marico ine

¿requenelo weir undertaken at the rollast of licadanartars on orher

Stations.

allo do molo tallath

In Dio post Caretad's accircles

in thee iron.

vore core med primarily wim cocrionanos, britto mi ourvellaces.

wring

0004046

---

## Page 6

14-UoOJU

2-

PRODUCTION

c.

operation, in which Raymond H.

singular importance to

tence were drawn on fully and he thereby provided

ontribution to the operation. Without the

of SCANILING and GERANDE with their unique quallfications,

operation would have been difficult in the extreme if indeed at

all possible.

In support of the Station's harassment campaign against Juan Jose

AREVALO Bermejo, Launched at the request of Headquarters,

SCANILING again provided the means for carrying out a large portion

of. the action taken.

'SCANTLING's efforts ranged from the mailing

of "poisoned" candy to the target to the placing of threatening

SCANTLING also made calls to various Mexican news-

papers anà mailed "montage" pictures of AREVALO and a Soviet in-

telligence officer to Guatemalan newspapers in the campaign to

discredit and discourage AREVADO in the Guatemalan Presidential

campaign.

SCATTING 1)

Sious

operation has vee

ternato contactin a sensitive LAURICLE

of minimizing the danger of the

g recognized as being in contact

SCANTLING's contribution to this

srichy both from the standpoint of security

SCANTLING continued to conduct numerous pretext and neighborhood

Investigations. As in the past many of these investigations were

in relation to highly sensitive cases.

4. Althougn SCANTLING's LIMPTY project objcotives can not be completoly

fulfilled, it is the Station's opinion that SCANILING continues to make valuable

contributions to the objectives of the project and to other. Station ectivitles.

SCAvLie's production, measured against monetary expenditure, case

officor time"

and other Intangibles factors, unquestionably justifies his continuing as an

integra: part of Project LIBerY. '

He monil H.. GORNDE Seument (in relatio

proinet. objectives) :

Ertaining to LIBRICK personrel

gnepale bagenotises.". Three photo-

rantributo to these objactives.

de VININED Dase, GELADE 20001nu23

moto take iron

the ITEMPTY operation

and how they concribute to the

to li icononsible for

Incling tale from LaTeD too

(10211-25979) •

Ston

0004047

26

PAGE

COFY NO.

05 6 8

---

## Page 7

2.

"To collect operational infpration and identify operational leads

ertaining to Station targots of opportunity.

The HIdirAP operation,

landlad by GRENDE, is still the major contributor to this oujective.

LIENTRAP operational emphasis continues to remain in the area of photo staieout

of prominent Mexican Communists and is presently working fulltime on providing

Dictares of individual Conmunists, homes suspected of being meeting sites used

o the Cormunist Party and the Connunist Party Headquartero itself.

LIANTRAP

has aldo recently begun to be used on IPKNICK leads.

It is

expected that

aüress of tuberar in thet latter area vill expand

"Io provide operational support to Station operations includins the

rentina ss notel rooms and sale apartments, renting and servicing of post office

boxes, and conducting counter-surveillances."

GRENDE's contribution to the

AMROD aperation vas noted in paragraph I.A.j.a. above.

GRENDE's comprehensive

area inureûge and personal overational capabilities enablo him to make a

values contribution in such operations as AMROD and also enable him to procure

the mosi desirable sare sites in suppori of the Station's operations. The

projectis assets, particularly GERINDE and LIIMPIY-10, presently provide 20

post cifice box mail drops for use of Mexico City Station and other Stations.

onsiderably during the next vor

addresses), a number of post office boxes will be retained for use in future

operations.

Who quelity and quantity of operationol intonation produced by the

photographie bases and other accivities under GrandE's control and supervision

is consinuaed by the Seasion worthwhile and in some cares unique.

It is con-

cludori, therefore, thet thie segment of the LIEMPTY Projeci should be continuad.

C. Relatlonshin ip the Related Monion Directive

is cores in the cronples siven above, Project Livery has provided vacuable

to many station operacions and increby has been a contribuiing factor to

Sultahment or the Related Mission objectives of the Station.

The project

2roideea any positive inteliigence nor is it intended to do so.

projectio

purpose is to provida a nachanion for the development of opera-

clonel trioration.

i. 0h43623

1o ona rajor change made in te IMplY prpiect to the replacerent os

the hiMateD basenouse.

mis was arranged

10 Pa 10 PROVIdE CHRENDE with more

misus rogid processing of the LIMPT:

prototake.

Eu to maies tor hectos nor with the bustonse treper (LIarr)

since ScAlLInG i: closer in sae ip lin dien

witht yoors noo. Choloto rest hes Des.

0004048

68

---

## Page 8

4-

ordered by her doctors and

It is therefore unlike

project year.

clearance

at

estimated

cos

may be necessary in early 1964.

Libe able to work during the coming

request cancellation of her operational

luded salery payments to her in the

coming year.

The unusual

(below)

sectionfor

A CHIBIT

ase reflected for LIEMPTY-19 in the "Project Costs"

ming year is due to this agent's new duties of LIFEAT

processing in adaition to her ola duties as translator. Agent's OA was amended

for this use on 2 January 1963.

III.

EFFECTIVENESS

The comments made concerning the project's effectiveness in the Project

Renewal of 1950 (HMMA 15979) remain valia.

Indeed the Station's need for the

type of services provided by the assets of this project are at least as great

today as they were when those comments were originally forvarded.

.. IV.

PROBLEMS

There

are presently no know major problems facing the operation which would

affect either the security or the effectiveness of this operation.

NUTTER during the month of October

this test.

V.

PLANS

The station considers

that the project is operating at its optimum size and

does not plan to expand it during the coming year.

Erforts will be continued to

refine and better utilize the existing project organization and to improve the

compartmentation and security ol the project.

VI.

COSTS

0004049

28

PACI

COPX NO.

6 8

---

## Page 9

14-UUU0U

5-

REPRODUCTION

AGENT SALARIES

(including

Raymond H. GERENDE

Oliver G. SCANTLING

Louise J. MACRINO

(at sUs 2.02 per hour)

IIEMPTY-4

LIEMPTY-5

(at US 1.75 per hour)

LIEMPTY-6

• LTEMPTY-7.

LIEMPTY- 8

LIEMPTY-9

LILMPTY-10

LIEMPTY-11

LIEMPrY-12

LIEMPTY-15

LIEMPTY-14

LIEMPTY-19

LILMPTY-24

SUS per year

6,000

5,500

no salary

2, 400

7,000

3,700

no salary

REPRODUCTHEN

FY 1964

FY 1905

2,000

2,000

2, 000

2, 000

10 GalorY

SUS. 59,500

SUB TOTAL

OPPRATIONAL PENSES

Transportation:

Mainterence of MV-2279, MV 2224,

MV 2255

REPRONUITION

PROMITED

sus 24,540

sus 15,160

0004050

PAAN

COPY NO.

of

6 8

---

## Page 10

VII.

VIII.

Operational

•REPRODUCTION

of basehouses

LIMITED"

LICALLA*

LILYRIC

Procurement of safehouses, post

office boxes, and rental of

automobiles

Purchase of Information, documents

and bribes

SUB TOTAL

replacement photographic

3,300

1,700

1,200

500

500

FY 1964

FY 1965

5,390

3, 010

560

.4.40

GRAND TOTAL

Sus 49,700

SUS 30,290

4Us 19,410

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

Emersency recontact

arrangements for Oliver G.

SCANTLINC and Raymond H.

GERINDE are on file in Headquarters (sel HMMA 15982 of 23 November 1960 and

HMMA 15901. 0: 23 November 19502)

For further information see project reneral

request st 1950 forrarded Dy HMA 15979!

TRAINDIG

Do training,

other than that within the competency af

SCANTLING

or. C322ID3

to sive,."

to anticipated for the coning project year:

LIMITED and LICALLA rents

tO LIMESA expense.

50.

REPRODUCTIO

to Cradlon by LIMOUSTIE and croiited

PROHIBITED

58-6-771

HNNA A -222387

ES G077

PACH

CORY NO.

66046512347

68

---

## Page 11

$E0r

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CRYPTONYM

STATION

REVIEW OF PROJECT LIEMPTY

(For the Purpose of Project Renewal)

COVER

SHEET

REPRODUCTION

* PROHIBITED

ID CASE OFFICER

Mexico City

eren

NARCOS

HIEF OF STATION Melane

Willard C

CUR TTS

The attached project action is presented for approval for the period

1 December 1962 through 30 November 1963.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

IS COPY

cine C11 104001 ita200.5z

8RSUP 1

Euchaded trom catamalic

59-6-24/1

0004052

68

PACE

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 12

CORETRODICTION

oject LEMPTY

I. CURRENT OBJECTIVES AND PRODUCTION

Oliver G. SCANTLING Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

1. "To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK

personnel and physical facilities." SCANTLING has continued (see pre-

• vious Project Reviews forwarded as attachments to HIMMA-17999, 31

October 1961, HMMA -14093, 13 November 1959

and HMMA - 15979, 18

November. 1960) to provide worthwhile infor

n pertaining to this ob-

During the past year SCANTLING

continued to be used ex-

tensively to follow up leads produced

REAT and LIENVOY. An ex-

cellent example of this blending

support assets was the

investigation and casing pe

& after leads from both

LIENVOY and LIFEAT I

of launching a successful

technical operation against

the regld

of a high ranking LIMERICK

intelligence officer assigned toy

co under diplomatic cover. With the

aid of the thorough casing repors and neighborhood investigation completed

by SCANTLING, Station KURIOT personnel, supported by other Station

support assets, were successful in installing a technical device in the

SCANTLING continues to be the Station's primary means of keeping

current records on the residences of the many Soviet personnel in Mexico

This is primarily accomplished through SCANTLING's follow up of

all LIENVOY leads which indicate interest by Soviets in specific quarters.

(See previous project renewal requests for additional details.)

"To collect operational information

pertaining to other targets of

opportunity, foreign official installations ar

sonnel of intelligence in-

terest operating: in Mexico":

SCANTLING

ery useful for. collecting in-

formation on other Station targets:

Ha. On the basis

ACID Installation in

Veracruz, the Statt

gers support) mounted an

operation to unobtrus

a large unit of agricultural

machinery (of U.S. origa

ich was in transit to Cuba. To

mount this operation, a precise and detailed casing of the imple-

ment was essential.

This SCANTLING was able to accomplish in

one trip to Veracruz with results that contributed substantery to

the operation.

5O-

0004053

PAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 13

14-00000

- 2=

b. SCANTLING provided the Station a detailed investigation

of Harotun ("Harry") KOPOIAN, employee of American Communists

Albert and Margaret MALTZ, which

determined the residence

of KOPOIAN as well as his family status and connections.

c. In the Satellite area, SCANTLING completed a casing of

an official Yugoslav installation in conjunction with a projected

Station technical operation.

3. "To exploit operational leads through recruitments,

debriefings,

and surveiliances." SCANTLING has contributed to this objective both

directly and indirectly as noted in the following examples:

a. SCANTLING completed a detailed and secure interview of

the fiancee of BESMOOTH to determine her connection with the

principals in the MCMAYFOWL case, particularly any connection

with procurement of documents used in the flight behind the Iron

This assignment was extremely sensitive (SCANTLING

was not told true reason for interview) and SCANTLING did an

admirable job while maintaining his cover for having the interview.

3. SCANTLING was called on for extensive initial spade work

in the BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation, SCANTLING

gave his

usual competent performance despite the fact that the role assigned

hir ivas unique to his experience.

c. SCANTLING performed one man surveillance of a sensitive

Station Soviet double agent which contributed significamly to that

operation.

d. SCANTLING was used extensively during the visit of

GP'DEAL as part of the Station's eftor in providing maximum

protection for she GPIDEAL party.

e. In addicion, SCANTLING performed numerous pretext and

neighborhood investigations, some of which were highiy sensirive.

SCANTLING also does most of the foca! investigations requested by

ODACID and other ODYCKE components.

4. In addition to his contributions to the above dojectived, SCANTLING

i used for miscellaneous support requiremenes trom the Sration.

For example,

SCINTLING handled LiEMBROUL-2 until the "wurn of LIMOTOR - 14 in July

SCANTLING is also used to spot and

•Par sate houses and inartmenis

:: ocher Station operations.

0004054

6 8

PAT"

of

---

## Page 14

-3 -

ng Requests

for Project Renewal,

specifically and to other Station activities in general. SCANTLING's

production, measured against monetary expenditures, case officer time

and other intengible factors, unquestionably justifies his continuation

as an integral part of Projeci LIEMPTY.

B. Raymond H, GERENDE Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

1.

"To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK

personnel and physical facilities through use of photographic base houses. "

Three photographic bases; LIMITED, LILYR

and LICALLA, contribute

to this objective.

To avoid repetition, the

lon is omitting the usual

le stription of the functions of her ended ley

bases and how they contribute

to the above objective. This e

detail in the 1960 Request for

Project Renewal. (HMMAT

2. "'To collect operat

Mation and identify operational

leads pertaining to Station tar

opportunity.

" The LIENTRAP operation,

handled by GERENDE, is still'the major contributor to this objective.

Among LIENTRAP's regular and extensive photographic assignments, was

the photo stakeout of prominent Mexican Communists (some of whom have

never been photographed previously by KUBARK) and Communist Party

Headquarters. During this assignment, LIENTRAP was able to cover

• the recent move of PCM Headquarters (the first information Station had

of the move) and to continue photo surveillance at the new site.

3.

"To provide operational support to Station operations, i. e...

rent hotel rooms and apartments, and conduct gounter-surveillances.

and apartments for other

comprehensive area

knowledge and personal operational capabilities combine to make him an

GERENDE

0004055

PACE

COLY

NO.

of

68

141924

---

## Page 15

The quainty

EPRODUCTION

should be continued.

C. Relationship to Related Mission Directive Objectives:

As stated in previous project renewals, it can readily be noted that

Project LIEMPTY has provided support to many Station operations and in

this manner has been a contributing factor to the furtherance of the Related

Mission Directive.

The project has not produced any positive intelligence

nor has it been interded that it should do so. The project's sole purpose

• is to provide a mechanism for the development of operational information

in support of other Station operations

II. CHANGES

There have bee

past project year affe

MPTY Project during the

s or personnel.

III. EFFECTIVENESS

There has been no change in Project LIEMPTY which would alter

the validity of the remarks made in Section III of 1960 project renewal re-

quest (HMMA 15979)

Iv.

PROBLEMS

The security problem in connection with the LICALLA operation,

which was described in 1960 renewal request

§ still present but has

caused no known difficulty. At Headguarte

suggestion in HMIMW-9736, the

LICALLA base was reactivated on 29 May 196

The base operator. con-

tinues to be alert for any unusual ingidents

a might indicate that the

base has been compromisedo

V. PLANS

The Station considers

the projeci is operating a its optimum

size and does not plan to expand it during the coming year.

Efforts will

be continued to refine and better utilize the existing project organizational

As in the past, the Station will continue its citorts to

improve the compartmentation and security of the project.

SPORE

Excludad treas a tammi!

0004056

35

PACE

COPY ND.

of

6 8

---

## Page 16

VI®

COSTS

REPRODUCTION

iInance records indicate that Proiect

ximately $20,250 during Fiscal Year 1962

(1 December 1961 - 30 June 1962) and has thus far during Fiscal Year

1963 (through 30 September 1962) expended about $7, 000.00; It is.

anticipated that about $8, 000. 00 will be expended during the last two

months (October and November 1962) of the project year.

This will

make a total expenditure during the project year of about $43, 250, or

$6, 250. 00 under the budget estimate of $49, 500.00.

B. Next Project Year - Of the total $49, 900. 00 budget, itemized below,

rical tear 1963 and the balance, 19, seg, de Styld be expenine due

Dendal Year 1904. Normal accounts genres will be used for all ex-

penditures.

AGENT SALARIES

$t

(Includes Christmas bonus

1962)

OH BANED

FY 1964

Raymond H. GERENDE

Oliver G. SCANTLING

Louise J. MACRINO

(at $US 2.02 per hour)

LIEMPTY-4

LIEMPTY- 5

(at $US 1.75 per hour)

LIEMPTY-Ó

LIEMPTY-7 (no salary)

LIEMPTY -3

LIEMPTY-9

LIEMPTY-10

LIEMPTY-11

LIEMPTY- 12

LIEMPTY-13

LIEMPTY-14

LIEMPTY-19

LIEMPTY-24 (no salary)

$ 6,000.00

5, 500.00

500.00

2, 400.00

1, 000.00

3, 500.00

----

2, 200.00

3, 200.00

4, 200.00

2, 900.00

2, 200

2,

SECTION

BITED

SUB TOTAL

$39

00.00

$24, 000.00

$15, 000.00

incided

0004057

36

PAGE. T

COPY NO:

68

---

## Page 17

DERATONAL REPROTUCTION

Transportation:

постом от рован.

MV 2284, and 2236

2, 000.00

Real Estate:

Rent, utilities, and

maintenance safehouses

*LIMITED

*LICALLA

LILYRIC

3, 300:00

1, 700.00

1, 200.00

• Procurement of safehouses,

post office boxes, and rentin

of automobiles

Purchase of informatigio

REPRO DICTION

entenan document, in NO MATTERD

SUB TOTAL

$9, 700.00

OPERATIONAL EQUIPMENT

Repair, maintenance and pur-

chase of replacement photographic

equipment and purchase film

1, 200.00

SUB TOTAL $ 1, 200.00

GRAND TOTAL $49, 900.00

FY 1963

FY 1964

$5, 700. 00

$4, 000.00

$ 700.00

$

.: 500.00

$30, 400.00 $19; 500. 00

(FY 1963)

(FY 1964)

DO 3091

+ 00602461

dangraditi

declassiliedian

0004058

PAGE

2 of -

6 8

Cory NO.

---

## Page 18

VIl.

WE CINCY CONDITSAOLUCTION

TED

Emergenc

contact dements for Oliver & SCANTLING and

On fite in Headquarters (See HMMA 15982 of 23

LA 15981 of 23 November 1960. For further intor-

mation see project renewal request of 1960 forwarded by HMMA 15979.

VIII.

TRAINING

" PROMIBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

ріл-д ,t

2a05-

CeOi

Excludel tam it:

decodile

5C?

6-74/1

0004059

P13 38 0 88

C. 2Ý 40.

---

## Page 19

14.00000

TOK

(For

FEEDITION

COVER SHEET

CRYPTONYM

LIEMPTY

• STATION

Mexico City

FIELD CASE OFFICER

Quinton N

OUSLER

elard 6608

Willard C. CURTIS

CHIEF OE

REPRODUCTIURTON

The attached project action

1 December 1961 through 30 November 1962.

REPRODUCTION

PROMBITED

DS COR?

00C4060

3

9

PAGE

COPY.

NO.

68

of

---

## Page 20

14.00000

Ren REPRONOSTION

PrOjeCt Kenewal)

I.:

CURRENT OBJECTIVES AND PRODUCTION

A. Oliver G. SCANTLING Segment (discussed in relation to project

objecives) :

"To collect operational information

pertaining to LIMERICK

personnel and physical facilities." SCANT

G has continued (See the

is Nome 95e, an orade a enter 1960) to prode

13 November 1959, and HMMA

worthwhile information

to this pete give.

SCANTLING has continued to be

used to follow up leads

aậuced by LIENVOY.

For example,

operational information

recently indicated that the LIMERICK

target was using the services of a Mexico City firm to repair

safes. Through discreet investigation SCANTLING was able to

identify the firm, its location and the name of the owner in the

event that we later wished to make an approach to him or to

exploit this information in another manner.

b.. SCANTLING is still the Station's primary source for

keeping current records on the residences of the many LIMERICK

personnel in Mexico City. This is accomplished in several ways;

the most important being SCANTLING's follow up of all LIENVOY

leads which indicate the LIMERICK &

le are interested in

renting a given piece of property

kevious project renewal

request for additional deta lenG

2.

"To collect op

of opportunity, foreign ai

Hatto

interest operating in Mexi

pertaining to other targets

del personnel of intelligence

G is very useful for collecting

information on other Station

-179:7

0004061

70

68

PAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 21

14.00000

(

SECRET/KARSK

-2-

a. On the basis of a request fo the Station from the

ODACID Chief, SCANTLING was sent to Puebla to be an

eyewitness to the 4 June 1961 Catholic inspired anti-CASTRO

demonstrations. Not only did SCANTLING obtain the desired

information, and samples of many of the leaflets used, but he

prepared his report for the Station in time for the COS to give

Te ODACID Chief a briefing at 1000 hrs., 5 june 1901.

SCANTLING does an excellent job on this type of assignment

due principally to his ability to observe and report objectively.

b. SCANTLING was instrumental in establishing that

Fernando LLANES Cavero and his wife were living at a local

Mexico City address.

This case has been of considerable

counterespionage interest to Headquarters.

SCANTLING has continued his contributions to the

Paul Frederick KIRSCHHOFF case by periodic interviews with

the subject's neighbors and associates.

"To exploit operational leads through recruitments,

debriefings,

and surveillances.

" SCANTLING has contributed to this objective both

directly and indirectly as will be noted by the examples listed below :

a. SCANTLING devoted a lot of time to the

surveillance and attempted recruitment of Abel ARTEAGA, a

Mexican national employed at the Cuban Embassy. SCANTLING

raiked with ARTEAGA several times and undoubtedly was

primarily responsible for the later success of the recruitment

made by another Station agent.

b, Some additional time vas devoted to the Cesar

GONZALEZ Sanchez case in February 1961 when SCANTLING

determined that GONZALEZ was still in Mexico City. See

the last renewal for additional details on this case.

In connection with the above objective SCANTLING

has performed numerous pretext and neighborhood investigations

for the Station, SCANTLING also does most of the local

investigations requested by ODACID and other ODYOKE

SECRET/*00%

0004062

41

Cry NO.

6. S

---

## Page 22

REPROOBATION

PROHIBITED

d. SCANTLING spent six weeks during July and

Augüst of this year giving tradecraft and surveillance

training to LIPAILS 5 and 7 from Monterrey. Although

this is not a direct contribution to the above objective, it

is considered sufficiently related to mention here.

In addition to his contributions to the above objectives,

SCANTLING is used for miscellaneous support requirements from the

Station, For example, SCANTLING is now handling LIEMBROIL-2 and

will continue to do so until the return of LIMOTOR-14 in June 1962.

Also,

during the past project year; SCANTLING handled the LIRICE surveillance

team until July 1961 when Simon D. CLACKER

ps) returned to Mexico

City. SCANTLING is also used to

for other Station operations

TAnd fentisafe houses and apartments

ing Bequests for Project Renewal,

although SCANTLING'S LIEI

fulfilled, it is the Station's of

Pal Ta objectives can never be completely

SCANTLING has made important and

valuable contributions to LIEMPTY Project objectives specifically and to

other Station activities in general. SCANTLING's production, measured

against monetary expenditures, case officer time and other intangible factors,

unquestionably justifies his continuation as an integral part of Project

LIEMPTY.

B.

Raymond H. GERENDE Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

1. "To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK

personnel and physical facilities through use of photographic base houses."

Three photographic bases, LIMITED, LILYRIC and LICALLA, contribute

To avoid repetition, the Station is omitting the usual

description of the functions of these three bases and how they contribute

tothe above objective, here has been nac

ge in the coverage as

"To collect opene

leads pertaining to Stationa

operation, handled by abrE

ph

and identify operational

" The LIENTRAP

major contributor to this

SECRET 10

0004063

PAGE

201 B8

СПУХ

NO.

---

## Page 23

II.

SHOR

months, on a fulltime basis,

several weeks the entire "take" from the LIERODE target was recorded

from the LIENTRAP vehicle. Later, the LIENTRAP agents operated the

LIERODE technical gear from the initial LIERODE stationary base.

3.

"To provide operational support to Station operations, l.e.,

rent hotel rooms and apartments, and conduct counter-surveillances.

GERENDE is used frequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for other

Station operations and activities. GERENDE's comprehensive area

knowledge and personal operational capabilities combine to make him an

extremely valuable Station asset for such support activities.

GERENDE

also procures and services post office box let

# drops for the many

Station operations requiring them.

4. The quality anog

operational information produced

by the photographic bases

other

activittes

under GERENDE's control

and supervision is consigered worthw

The Station concludes, therefore,

that this segment of the LEMR Uract should be continued.

C. Relationship to Related Mission Directive Objectives:

• As stated in the previous project renewal, it can readily be noted

that Project LIEMPTY has provided support to many Station operations and

in this manner has been a contributing factor to the furthereance of the

Related Mission Directive. The project has not produced any positive

intelligence nor has it been intended that it should do so. The project's sole

purpose is to provide a mechanism for the development of operational

information in support of other Station operations.

CHANGES

LIRICE (formerly LIJERSEY

SECRET,

0004064

IACh

. of

---

## Page 24

14-UUUU

-5-

III. EFFECTIVENESS

IV. PROBLEMS

The security problem in connection with the LICALLA operation, which

was described in last year's renewal request, is still present but has not caused

any known difficulty. At Headquarters suggestion in HMMW-9736, the LICALLA

base was reactivated on 29 May 1961.

The base operator has been cautioned to be

ever alert for any unusual incidents which might indicate that the base has been

compromised. This is the only problem experienced by the LIEMPTY Project

düring the past project year.

V.

PLANS

The Station considers that the projeats

now operating at its optimum size

and does not plan to expand it during the coming project organizational

devoted to refining and bette lar

Rather; efforts will be

arrangements.

VI.

COSTS

A.

Past Project Year - Station finance records indicate that Project LIEMPTY

expended $21, 458.00 during Fiscal Year 1961 (1 December 1960 - 30 June 1961) and

has thus far during Fiscal Year 1962 (through 30 September 1961) expended about

$11, 000.00. It is anticipated that about $8, 000. 00 will be expended during the last

two months (October and November 1961) of the project year.

This will make a

total expenditure during the project year of about $40, 500.00, or some $12, 500.00

under the budget estimate of $53, 000. 00.

B. "Ensuing Period Of the total $49, 500.00

529,500,00 should be expended during the red has

ROHIBITED

0004065

of 6.8

---

## Page 25

AGENT

Raymond H. GERENDE

Oliver G, SCANTLING

Louise j. MACRINO

(@$2.02 per hour)

LIEMPTY-4

LIEMPTY-5

(@ $1.75 per hour)

LIEMPTY-6

LIEMPTY-7• (No Salary)

LIEMPTY-8

LIEMPTY -9

LIEMPTY-10

LIEMPTY-11

LIEMPTY-12

LIEMPTY-13

LIEMPTY-14

LIEMPTY-19

LIEMPTY-24 (No Salary)

Christmas Bonuses 1961

-6-

REPRODUCTION

PROTES D

5. 000.00

1, 500.00

2, 200.00

1, 000.00

3, 000.00

-0

2, 000.00

3, 000

00

3,900

2

800

aốC

00

SUB-

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

Maintenance of MV-2279, 2284 and

2286.

Procurement of Safehouses, post

office boxes and renting

automobiles.

Purchase of information,

identification documents,

and

bribes.

$ 2,000.00

1, 000.00

1. 00

SUB-TOTAL

OPERATIONAL EQUIPMENT

Repair, maintenance and pRODUGTON

of replacement photogra

equipment.

SUB-TOTA

PROHIBITED

1, 000.00

i.if

63 3.:

$

39, 500.00

3, 500.00

1, 000.00

0004366

of

68

TIri

---

## Page 26

14-V0000

REPROBATION:

PROMIBITED

REAL ESTATE

Rent,

utilities and maintenance

of following safehouses:

*LIMITED

*LICALA

LILYRIC

3, 000.00

1, 500.00

1, 000.00

SUB-TOTAL

5, 500. 00

$ 49,500.00

credited to Station miscellaneo

VD TOTAL

BITED

esturned to the Station by LIMOUSINE and

receipts.

VIL.

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

Please refer to last year's request for project renewal and HMMA-15982,

23 November 1960, and HMMA-15981, 23 November 1960.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

27P

0004067

$8

of

---

## Page 27

REVIEW OF

(For

CRYPTONYM

LIEMPTY

FIELD CASE

SUSLEE

STATION

Mexico City

CHIEF OF STATION

The attached project

"period 1 December 1960

action

REPROD THEM

for approval for the

DROHIBITED"?.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

15919.

IS COPY

0004668

42

88

of

---

## Page 28

REVIEW

OF

(For the Purp

EVPTY

t Renewal)

TED

CURRENT OBJECTIVE

Ao

• Oliver G.

SCANTI IN beguent (discussed in relatio

o project objectivee

"To collect operational information per-

taining to LIMERICK personnel and physical

facilities."

SCANTLING has continued (See

the

last Project Review forwarded as an attachment

to HNNA-14093, 13 November: 1959) to provide

worthwhile and

significant information per-

taining to the

above objective.

There follow

examples of SCANTLING's production:

'A detailed casing off

LIMERICK

forwarded

to me are de

HMMA-14496, 12

together with

SCANTLING has been used frequently

to follow up leads produced by LIFEAT/

LIMERICK (now produced by LIENVOY).

example,

In May 1960, LIFEAT indicated

that the LIVERICK target was having con-

siderable contact with an AGENCIA ROBLES

concerning the handling of incoming and

outgoing shipments. By discreet investi

gation,

SCANTLING was able to provide the

Station with additional pertinent information

about

the address,

owner and type of business

engaged in by

Such information

then

becomes

readily available for exploitation

shoul: d

a LIVERICK shipment of

reticular

Interest come to the attention

(S COPY

50-5-31111

0004063

PAOS: 48-01.68

COPY NO.

---

## Page 29

considering as a residence.

2.

*To collect operational information pertaining to

foreign official installa-

tiona and

As indicated below,

SCAN TLING is also

extremely useful for collecting information on targets

other than LIMERICK:

In March 1960

as instrumental

to the

LITABBY

in anticipation of

graphic

SCANTLING

and pretext investi

SCANTLING is also used to follow up

sensitive leads in connection with

and LIENVOY production from LITABBY and

sister targets (See example as to type

under I,A,I, b and c above).

SCANTLING was used as an investigative

asset to determine the local address

xact employment of Gordon William GROVES

201-220025), a counterespionage case of

interest. to

Headquarters and ODENVY.

30

"To exploit operational leads through reoruitments

debriefings, and surveillances."

As examples 'oi

SCANTLING's contribution to this objective,

following cases

are listed:

SCANTLING devoted a

of time

to his

locate Cesar

munist Country.

on GONZALEZ frOm

various leads

gust 1950 befor

419 4

0604570

4

PAGE

COPY NO.

0 38

---

## Page 30

-3-

GONZALEZ was finally identified

Mexico City home, and buginess

addresses

ascertained. See HVA-15626, 9 September I960,

for further details on this case.

conducted

by SCANILING.

obtain the information required by

Headquarters.

See the attachments to HMMI-I416, 20 May 1960 g

for the results of the investigation.

In addition to his contributions to the above objec-

SCANTLING is used for miscellaneous support

requirements of the Station.

SCANTLING

handled several of Raymond H. GERENDE's (ps) operations

while the latter was away from

Mexico City during August

and September 1960.

Also, SCANTLING has been managing

the LIJEPSEY surveillance

team since the departure of

Simon D.

CLACKETT in August 1960, It is hoped that

SCANTLING can be relieved of this

assignment as soon

the LItto project is approved.

SCANTLING has also

been used to spot and rent safe houses for various

Station operations, a

service.

As stated in thé

preceeding Request for Project

Renewal,

a though SCANTLING'S LIENPTY Project obiectives

cen never be completely fulfilled,

it is the Station's

opinion that SCANTLING has made important and valuable

contributions to LIEMPTY Project objectives specifically

and to other Station activities in general•

SCAN TLING'S

produation,

measured against monetary expenditures,

case officer time and other intangible factors, unques

¿onably justifias his continuation as an integral pari

I Project LIaMPTY.

Raymond H. GERUNDE Segment (disquesed in relation to project

objectires):

"To collect oparational information

vertaining to

LIMERICK persorneT ant physical faalitia through us=

i th their

IIVERICK target,

a LIMITED - This base compiles

daily logs

indicating

all arrivals,

departures and,

where possible.

identities

of

every person

visiting of working at the LIMRICK target.

0004071

PAGE

en.?"10.

of

---

## Page 31

14-UUU0U

SECRETeN

- 4-

This information is particularly usetyl in keeping track of

LIMERICK personnel and assisting with the identification of

isitors to the installatior

Also, LIMITED maintains a

ummary attendande list of LIMERICK emplovees on a dail

basis; this enables the station quickly to ascertain the

presence or absence of an employee on any given day.

Finally, one other significant service is performed by this

base, the radio dispatching of the LIEMBRACE surveillance

team on LIMERICK personnel and targets of opportunity.

LINITED's photographic coverage is still concentrated on

visitors, as opposed to employees, to the LIMERICK

installation. A recent example of the base's contributions to

Station efforts is the case of Joseph Ralph MAURIa In this

case, a LIENVOY lead indicated that an American might visit

to dispatch the radio controlta in day lance bese vas alerted

person appearing to be an American:

The results of this

assignment were indicated in MEXI-6392 and several other

cables. LIVITED was also able to provide photographs,

which when compared with photographs provided by Head-

quarters, left no question as to MAURI's identity.

b. LILYRIC - This bases output of high-quality clandestine

photographs has been in about the same quantity as last year.

In addition, the base operator, LIEMPTY-14, prepares weekly

reports on LIMERICK employees and their wives. LILYRIC

also performs the assignment of noting and reporting the

license plate numbers of all cars bringing visitors to the

LIVERICK installation. LILYRIC photographs also are con-

centrated on visitors to the target, as opposed to employees.

It should be noted that LILYRIC operates for photographic

coverage during the hours from daylight to 1400 liours each

day of the week except Sunday. The LIMITED base maintains

photographic coverage from 1400 hours to darkness each day

except Sunday.

c. LICALLA - As reported in previous correspondence, the

LICALLA base contributes to the collection of operational

information through photographic coverage of LIMERICK

employees and their families.

Also, the base operator,

SECRET T

0004072

PAGE

- 0f 18

COPY NO.

---

## Page 32

14-00000

-5-

LIEMPTY, supplies extremely worthwhile information

pertaining to the apparent positions and jobs of the target

employees. He accomplishes this objective by careful

observation and analysis. (LICAlLA also maintains a daily

attendance roster-of all LIMERICK employees. LICALLA

coverage of the target, both photographic and physical

observations, Lenables the Station to keep abrest of LIMERICK

personnel changes

espionage effortiff viral .contribution to the Station's counter-

2. "To collect operational information and identity operational leads

pertaining to Station targets of opportunity.

The LIENTRAP operation,

handled by GERENDE, is the major contributor to this objective. It

has been possible for LIENTRAP to take photographs and to perform

pretext investigations in support of numerous Station activities. The

cases listed below are cited as examples:

a. In the case of Cesar GONZALEZ Sanchez (see I, A, 3, a, above)

LIENTRAP was able to procure photographs of GONZALEZ at his

Mexico City residence which, When compared to Headquarters

provided photographs, left no doubr that GONZALEZ was the

subject of interest to Headquärters.

b. LIENTRAP confirmed the identity of Olga CASTILLO de Ledon,

a frequent visitor to the LIMERICK installation and an ardent

supporter of the present Cuban regime, through a pretext

investigation ofithe residents of an apart ment building where

CASTILLO was believed to live. Later, LIENTRAP supported the

results of the investigation with excellent photographs of the

subject.

"To provide operational support to Sration operations, i.e., ront

horel rooms and apartments, and conduct counter-surveillances.

SERENDE is used trequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for

ciner Station operations and activities. GERENDE's comprehensive

area knowledge and personal operational gipabilities combine to make

him an extremely valuable Starion asser for such support activities.

CERENDE also procures post office box letter drops for the many

starion operations requiring them, Al

00U:.73

4 §

PACE

60:.

---

## Page 33

14-00000

(

SECRET/KARO

-6-

4. It is the Station's conclusion that the money and case officer time

expended on this segment of the LIEMPTY project is worthwhile and

should be continued in view of the quality and quantity of operational

information produced.

C. Simon D. CLACKETT Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

1. "To collect operationas intormation and to identify operational leads

pertaining to the LIMERICK target and Siation targets of opportunity."

During this project year the LUJERSEY surveillance team under the

direction of CLACKETT began contributing to the Station's support

efforts through pretext investigations and physical surveillances. Some

examples of the team's work are listed below :

a. (Rafael TISCHLER Guzman (201-64372) is a Guatemalan

Communist which the team had under surveillance from

November 1959 tq April 1960. The surveillance, together

with information acquired from other sources, eventually

resulted in an unsuccessful recruitment attempt on (TISCHLER.

b. (Pericles FRANCO Ornes (202-64546) - FRANCO is a

Dominican of interest to the Station. The LIJERSEY team

devoted portions of five months, January to May 1960, collecting

information on subjeçt through physical surveillance.

c. Jose Maria

- "Chema" LOPEZ Valdizon (201= was the

subject of a physical surveillance during May and June 1960.

LOPEZ was later deported from Mexico through the efforts

Of LITEMPO-2.

d. CLACKETT and the LIJERSEY team performed numerous

pretext investigations on Station targets of opportunity and on

three separate occasions during che project year servaid as

a counter-surveillance escort for Station officers in other

operations,

2. CLACKETT, just prior to his resignation in August 1960, spent

about five weeks giving tradecraft und operational skills training to

Llttit-1. Arnough not specically covered by the project objectives,

this ability on CLACKETT's part is considered a significant con-

tribution to the Station's support crores.

0004074

6 8

PACE

---

## Page 34

14-00000

II.

SECKE TYNA

-7-

3. In view of CLACKETT's resignation, which was effective 31

August 1960, and the proposed transfer of the LIERSEY team to

the LITEMPO project, this segment of the LIEMPTY project will

However, fot the record, it is considered that

the CLACKETT segment of LIEMPTY was worthwhile and the

expenditure of Station assets in connection with LIJERSEY operations

were justified,

D. Relationship to Related \Mission Directive Objectives:

It can readily be noted that Project LIEMPTY has provided support to

many Station operations and in this manner has been a contributing factor

to the furtherance of the Related Mission Directive.

The project has not

produced any positive intelligence nor has it been intended that it should

do so. The project's sole purpose is to provide a mechanism for the

development of operational information in support of other Station

operations.

CHANGES

A. Simon D, CLACKETT

The unexpected resignation of CLACKETT in August 1960 has

necessitated the decision as how best to utilize the LIJERSEY surveillance

team and still benefit.from the training and experience gained by the team

during the past year. As explained in the LITENPO project outline,

decided that the LITEMPO Staff Agent would have the time, the need and the

requirements to handle and manage the LIJERSEY team on a regular basis;

consequently, the Station believed that such a solution to this problem vould

permit he Station to continue to profit from CLACKETT's past etforts.

B. Oliver G. SCANTLING

Since CLACKETT's leparture, SCANTLING has been handling the

LUERSEY team as an interim easure pending Headquarters aporoval t

the LITEMPO project. SCANTLING has been exposed to, and likew se

knows, only one of the team members, LIEMPTY-20. SCANTLING is

Known to L-20 only by an alias.

0004075

T"C"

---

## Page 35

14-00000

III,

SECRET A

- 8-

C. Personnel Changes

1, LIEMPTY-15 - Member of the LIjERSEY surveillance team -

• Transferred to Projeck LITEMPO and cryptonym changed to

LITED-2.

I ever to weather as re a sea yur ente eat -

Transferred to Project LITEMPO and cryptonym changed to

LITED-3.

3. LIEIMPTY-20 - Assistant Team Leader of LIJERSEY surveillance

team - Transferred to Project LITEMPO and cryptonym changed to

LITED-1.

4. LIEMPTY-25 - Most recent addition to the LIJERSEY surveillance

team.

Transferred to Project LITEMPOjand cryptonym changed to

IITED-1.

5. There have been no other personnel changes within the LIEMPTY

project, excepting thepresignations.of Simon D. CLACKETT and

Wilma J. FIORDALISI

EFFECTIVENESS

A.

General comments pertaining to the value of the project efforts to the

Station's needs - The Station is of the opinion that its operations are only

as good as the support mechanisms backstopping and contributing to them.

The avalability of unilateral support agents and organizations, such as

the LIEMPTY Project, to investigate leads and to collect operational

information is an indispensable ingredient to the Station's espionage and

counterespionage objectives. The Station would be seriously handicapped

in its operarional activities should the support services of such agents as

GERENDE, SCANTLING and the gents under their control be suddenly

made unavailable.

B. LIMERICK Target - The basis, for most of the Station's counter-.

espionage activities directed against the LIMERICK target require detailed

knowledge of the identity, activities and fellow associates of LIMERICK

personnel, The LIMPTY photographic basehouses undoubtedly provide

more of this type information than any other Station operation.

production from LIEMPTY photographic bases and from the LIENVOY

project provide the Sration with the large majority of LIMERICK leads.

0004076

$ 8

---

## Page 36

IV.

V.

LORET/KArUK

-9-

Pion

C. Targets of Opportunity - The immediate availability of independent

advantage which this Station considers

night i ee it is due a Lege ete that an ion as des

sent to distant areas in Mexico to do investigations, that photographs can

be made of individuals and places which are of operational interest and

apartments and hotel rooms can be acquired in fictitious names in

support of sensitive operations and activities.

D. Although the progress and success of any support project depends

upon requirements from other Station operations, it must be concluded

that Project LIEMPTY has indeed been effective during the past project

year.

PROBLEMS

A. Security - The activities of the LICALLA base were suspended in

September 1960 as a direct result of the arrest of three KURIOT

technicians by the Cuban Government. One of the technicians was known

to have knowledge of the four LIMUST units (LICALLA is located in one

of these units) and the Station considered' it appropriate to suspend photo-

graphic operations pending resolution of the Situation. At this time,

there is no indication when LIGALLA operations will be resumed.

LICALLA base operator has reported that there have been no unusual

inquiries or other suspicious actions which might indicate that LICALLA

has been compromised to LIMERICK personnel; however, such a

possibility will exist until the release of the three technicians. No

other security problems have occurred during the past year.

PLANS

A. Processing of Photographs - During the past year considerable

progress has been made in the Station's handling, i,e., sorting, indexing,

identifying leads and filing,

of photographs produced by the several hases.

Photographic Techniques - The previous LIEMPTY Project Renewal

Request indicated that the Station planned to try new techniques sing

HY-PAN film in night photography.

HY-PAid film was used on a trial

basis during daylight hours with poor rest

Almost invariably, prints

ali

0004077

of

---

## Page 37

VI.

SECRET/HABOK

from HY-PAN negatives were too grainy and, consequently, were of

little use in producing good identified shots of Individuals.

of these experiments,

night photography has not yet been attempted.

It should be noted that Eastman Kodak's new TRI-X PAN film, which

all-bases and LIENTRAP now use, is superior to any film previously

used by the Station for clandestine photography. The quality of all

base photographs have been increased considerably as a direct result

of this new film.

C. General Comments - The Station believes that the GERENDE

segment is now operating under optimum organizational arrangments

and there are no plans for expansion contemplated at this time. It is

expected that SCANTLNG will soon be relieved of his interim

responsibility for the LIJERSEY team and can concentrate more on his

investigative and casing activities. The transfer of the LIJERSEY team

to Project LITEMPO reduced Project LLEMIXactivities by an

appreciable amount. It is not planned, during the coming year, to

expand present LIEMPTY activities.

COSTS

A. Past Project Year - Station finance records indicate that Project

LEMPTY expended $19, 120. g during Fiscal Year 1900 (L December

1959 - 30 June 1960) and has thus far during Fiscal Year 1961 (through

31 October 1960) expended $16, 734. 69. Contract Agents salaries and

allowances paid by Headquarters bring the total expenditures for 11

months of the project year to approximately $50, 000.00.

$4, 000. 00 will be obligated during the l2th month of the project year.

This will bring total project expenditures to about $54, 000. 00 for the

entire project year.

Ensung Period - Of the total $53, 000. 00 budget, itemized below,

$31,960.00 snould be expended during the remainder of Fiscal Year

1961 and the balance, $21, 100.00, should be expended during Fiscal

Year 1962.

Normal accounting procedures will be used for all

expenditures.

0004078

PAGE

dii"

of

---

## Page 38

14-00000

SECRET/LARO

-11-

LIEMPTY-4• 4 - 5/572

LIEMPTY-5 2-55452

JEMPTY-6 2-2÷041

LIEMPTY-T No Salary - 35013-

LIEMPTY-8

6-34074

LIEMPTY-9

2-54499

LIEMPTY-10 C-5548

LIEMPTY-11

0-441435

LIEMPTY-12

C-36226

LIEMPTY -13

LIEMPTY-14

LIEMPTY-19 c-7÷574

LIEMPTY -24 No Salary c-75012

Christmas bonuses all personnel

SUB-TOTAL

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

Maintenance of MV - 2279, 2284

and 2286.

Operational Travel

Procurement of Safehouses, post

sifice boxes and renting

Purchase of information,

identitication docuinents, and

2, 000.00

1, 500.00

2, 800.00

-0-

1, 800. 00

2, 800.00

3, 600. 00

2, 500.00

1, 800.00.

1, 800. 00/1

1, 80010001:

1, 000.00,

$ 38, 000.00

SUB-TOTAL

$ 2, 000.00

500.00

2, 000.00

2, 500.00

-?!

$.

-7,000.00

•SE

0004079

PIGE

58 08 68

---

## Page 39

SPENT ASHORE

-12-

OPERATIONAL EQUIPMENT

Repair and maintenanceof

camera equipment.

Purchase of replacement

photographic equipment and

supplies.

SUB-TOTAL

2,500.00

REAL ESTATE

Rent, utilities and maintenance

of following safehouses:

*LIMITED

*LICALLA

LILYRIC

$

3, 000. 00- (s

1, 000; 0a.

SUB-TOTAL

5, 500.00

GRAND. TOTAL

$53, 000.00

*LIVITED and LICALLA rents are returned to the Station by LIMOUSINE and

credited to Station miscellaneous receipts.

VII,

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

As regards the requirement listed in CSI-F No. 230-60, Alex A, for

communications arrangments in the event of "Emergency Conditions."

the Station does not anticipate that this project would or could continue

in function under its present objectives.

However, both principal

agents, SCANTLING and CERENDE, would very possibly be worthvaile

sources of information to maintain contact with under any aciverse

conditions. Both of these agents identify theselts, in terms of

ideology, motivation and perspective, more as Americans than as

Mexican nationals (which they are). It is reasonable to assume, thera-

that SCANTLING and GERENDE would become valuable contacts

in any emergency situationi

SE GRI

0004080

P/cE

0 8 8

---

## Page 40

SEC

-13-

CU00N

The Station is aware that the previous project renewal stated that

emergency communications arrangments were being made.

The

Station has finally obtained the Urs.

addresses of relatives through

whom GERENDE and SCANTLING could be contacted under most

situations. This information will be forwarded separately.

S.:...

0004081

3903 8

---

## Page 41

DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

CLASSIFICATION

STORET

TO

INFO.

XX

FROM

Chief of STation, Mexico City

SUBJECT

TOIN

Project LIEMPTY Progress Reportebruary,

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

March and Aoril 1964

Action Required: For your information

Reference

:

A.

IMA-22944) 20 February 1964

B.

HMMA-14793

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKEO FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILIA

1. BACKGROUND.

The LIMPTI Project is designed to collect operational Information on the

LIERICK installation and personnel, as well as targets of opportunity, through

stationary and mosile photographic coverage.

In addition, the project provides

the means for lavestigating leads from the

above noted coverages as well as other

Station sources.

LIMPTY supports other Station operations through the renting of

safehouses, providing and servicing post ofiice ox letter drops, conducting counter

surveillances and investigations and performing related tasks.

2. OPERATIONS - REVIEW.

The station ¿eels that it vould be helpful to summarize at this time information

previously reported to Headquarters (see paragragh) 3, reference B) concerning the

photo basehouses inder this project and thereby give Headquarters an updated frame

of reference in which to view the roles of the various basehouses.

The LIVED end LIlYFIC basehoused provide coverage of front of the LIMERICK

Installation.. Although on the surface It; may appear that these two basehouses

provide duplicate take, this 1s not the case.

It has been the Station's experience

in running the unilateral LIMPIY operation that a 0900 to evening workday, which

would be required of a single basehouse in order to cover the LIMERICK target

effectively, is just too long for any pair of agents to remain effective.

This is

especially true iren it is considered that these basebouse onerators are essentially

unsupervised during their workday.

It would also be impossible for a single base-

house to provide the kind of coverage the Station needs on the target installation,

especially durinz the paak hours of notivity, namely late moming and early aftemon.

(continued...)

Distribution:

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMACL AND "BER

RAMA -23343

CLASSIFICATIOS

1. 7413

N230 April 1964

2T: HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-7413 0004082

6e1

o1 BE

dori NO.

17673

---

## Page 42

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCHI

CLASSIFICATION

SIGNET

UISPATCH SYMBUI AND NU

FIMMA-23343

For these reasons,

the LILYRIC basehouse generally operates from 0900 to 1400 or 1500

weekdays.

LIMITED operates from 1200 to 1800 or dark (as the dally situation

dictates) on weekdays, and 0900 to 1400 on Saturdays.

(These hours are subject to

change to fit station needs. Special coverase for Sunday is arranged on a need

basis; however, past experience has shown regular coverage of Saturday afternoons

and Sundays is not rewarding.

Inis schedule provides for both basehouses to be in

action during the peak activity hours of the DIMERICK target. Although even this

arrangement is not completely airtight, anything less than this would present unaccept-

able saps in the coverage.

It must also be considered that without two basehouses cover

ing the front of the target installation, any illness, personal problem or vacation for

operators of one basehouse would terminate Station coverage,

un lateral survelllance team tolstakeout the LIMERICK Installation when assigned to

coverage of members of the LIMERICK staff.

LIMITED operator radio dispatches the

teen onto target personnel giving diroction, means of travel anà description of aress

This permits the team to commence its surveillance a number of

blocke from the LRERICK Installation and beyond the protective ring of the local

The third basehouse, LICALIA, provides coverage of the back of the LIMERICK

This coverage is the real "window" the Station has

into the LIvERICk target and provides a large part of the information on which

Station bases its identifications of LIMERICK staffers and Its estimates of starfing,

Due to

Its position, LICALIA 1s also able to provide Inforation on the LIMERICK installation

It 1s the Station's opinion that as long as the LIMERICK installation is a prime

target of the Station,

it will be necessary to maintain the present three hasehouses.

To eliminate any one of the three would create a gap in tha Station's coverage that

he station omelette den this maced on this target by the latest no anc

the station's resporsibilities under this RIDi

anyone telet?

3. OPBRAIIONS - CURRENI.

In the past it has been

stated that the LIEMPTY operation provides the majority

of snotographs used by the Station in its CE operations against

the LIMERICK target.

This is still true and will remain so for the foreseeable future.

The Station, and

particularly that section concerned with the LIMERICK target, has aliays considered

the LTEMPTY photo take an essential tool in following the daily activities of the

parsornel of the tarset instellation and visitors to that installation.

ObVIOUSlY

the nost interesting individuals in both these categories are those of intelligence

these have been a number of PBPRIE citizens.

For those interested

LImely take for the reporting parlod included approximately 235 rolls

di czerational protos, 205 of which vere directly concerned with the liMERICk target.

In sditsion,

the daily logs apt by the basenouses on the comings

and goings of the

LIVERICK stair members

and Misliors have greatly vided the Stations CE efforts,

especlally in crisis times such as the OPFLOOR alCiT-

I? the area of speciile support to the station's

above and support to other Station operations,

LImer! contributions in this arca.

progen (in addition to

Qing is a list of selected

LIMPIY support to the AMROD operation continues to ba

The contributions made by the tito cutouts,

Raymond H.

GERMIE and Oliver O. SCANTLING,

duzing the reporting period can be

truthfully described as Umaking" the aperation work.

Only Deceuse GERENDE

ind SCANTLING are available to provide duly execution of the assigments

levied on the Suetion has the flation boen able to

contribute fully to

00C4083

Oliver C. SCANTIDiG continues in his assignment as

cutout in the LINIIED

phase of the LImPTy operation and alternate contact of LICASA-i in

sensitive operation of LAURICLE interest,

Due to the fact diat SCAlLING's

wife died during the reporting period tir the resulting vialts of

•C•u

19739

U!":

IA9E

: 00

NC

---

## Page 43

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

hey trange don

LASSILAIION

SECRET

I SYMBUL AND NO.

FNMA-23343

d.

relatives and legal details to be settled, SCANILING's miscellaneous

operational activity was somewhat curtailed. However, SCANMING did

find time to take on the servicing of a post office box mail drop for

the sensitive ANIMPULSE operation and complete two pretexi investisations.

GRENDS continued his assignments.as cutout to LICALIA aM LILYRIC basehouses

and LIMITRAP truck:

In addition GRiNDE obtained a safe apartment for use

of the LIKAYAK Case Officer and performed an investigation at the Instituto

Cultural Español Mexicano at the behest of the COs.

GERENDE and LIEMETY-10

continued to arovide frequent servicing of P. O. Box mall drops used

operationally by Mexico City Station as well as other stations.

special assignments allull

given the project basehouses concerning a matter

of LAURICLE interest and the arrival and activities of two LINERICK TDY

Full reports were prepared and supplied to the interested Station

officers In these cases. The project assets have also been alerted to

provide immediate reporting on a special case involving a PBPRIME citizen

which is of interest to ODENVY and KUBARK.

During the recent visit to

Mexico of an individual of ODIBEX interest, the project assets were alerted

and supplied special weekend coverage of the LIMERICK staffer who was known

to have contacted the individual of interest to ODIBEX.

During the reporting period the operational use si LINIRA? contimued to

increase.

This use has been primarily in the coverage of PCM and exile

Communists residing in Mexico.

3. SECURILY.

an operational assigment.

had run a red light causing I TENURAD

operational equipment is not permanently mounted (In DIENIRAP, and is carried in a

small case while moving from asstgment to assignpent, all equipment was readily

evacuated by LIEMPTY-10 while the driver; LIMPTY-Il, and bystanders righted

LIENTRAP.

The taxi fled the scene and LIEVIRAP was

able to move off under its

Darage to the right sidel

and broken windshield resulted from the accident.

No security problems resulted and LTENIRAP was back in operation in a week.

A survey was conducted among the agents under this project to determine if they

remembered their recontact instructions and verbal recognition signals.

learned that most had forgotten at least part of the plan. New contact plens are

being formulated end current pictures of all agents have been obtained to facilitate

It is planned to review the recontact instrictions with the agents

periodically once the new plan is worked out.

lio major aguipment problens other than the LIBERA? accident noted unda?

"SECURITY"

jove were experienced turing this perio!.

in February the LiliaRD camera

required adjustment of the suiter and trig spring.

5. 2E3500V6.

Tra «ration has been making i review of its pershine: needs under this

project in order to determine there economies could Dejd stituted without causing

gops in sperational coverage o. crease in security

efficiency.

It is been

detainer that LIEMPTI-12 con he Terminated under ta

whove conditions ar

LEorin c well. It 10 piannelpeftect these termaitions as of 1 jule 10

alao mi een dotermined that gaite l July LIANDEY iD 1171 be placel on an

race con ork performed for the davler

0004084

is tining other than turior soviet of traloiat

principles too tride

stmetions) argaianio

Photograle

myrict is

sbeard roeedure, aid astion conto are instructe!

i necessary to inger.

enact tile technique in bout wing and pirate

"e product.

6a3

10÷ 5.30

.. ...>

Ladiessic lu

---

## Page 44

DISPATCH

TO : Chief, WH Division

INFO

CLASSIFICATION

SEGRET/AOK

DISPATCH SYMaDI AND NO.

HMMA -14793

-1762

FILE NO.

50-6-74/1

FROM

DATE

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

RECORDS DErS April 1960

- LIEMPTY Project Renewal Comments

The fo?10: Lad MOtTOMARKED FOR INDEXING

RE: AS JEHAS CHECK "X" ONE)

ACTION REQUIRED

ALich. 2101: SEO INDING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

- None, for Headquarters information Only Sai: /pizzas

BY QUALIFIED-HQ DESK ONLY

REFERENCE(S)

HMMW-8515, 25 February 1960

•R.0.8050-010

= "Notor

In tootruction,

It would appearstrom paragrapha 2a and 240f referesce that

KUDESK and KUTUBE Ops have not veen completely informed of the back-

ground of the LIPMPTY Projectand its agent requirements. At the time

HMMA-14093 (Request for Renewal of Project LIEMPTY) was written, it

was assumed that the Mexico Desk and KUTUBE/D could answer any additional

questions, based on reports and dispatches not normally available to the

senior staffs, which might be raised during the renewal process.

2. In answer to paragraph 2a, Oliver G. SCANTLING first contacted

Inez PARADA de Moreno in early 1957 to fulfill a KUTUBE/D requirement.

He visited her as an architect interested in viewing the LIMERICK installation

from the building where she lives.

He was socially acquainted with her brother,

a Catholic Priest, and knew the family to be unquestionably anti-Communist.

However, it would be imprudent on the Station's and SCANTLING's part to

assume that PARADA does not at least suspect that some anti-LIMERICK

intelligence service is involved, PARADA suggestediduring SCANTLING's

initial visit that he could return at ady time for further observations. This

was reported by SCANTLING an| 2l March 1957 and it does not seem appropriate

to query him again on the pretext for his recent visits.

3. While HMMA-14093 cOraly reterred to LIMITED, LILYRIC and

LICALLA as "photographic basehouses," the Station would like to emphasize

that photographic coverage is only one of their functions (please see HMIMA-12095,

4 February 1959). LIMITED is used as a radio dispatch base for automobile

surveillance teams in addition to physical surveillance of persons entering

the front gate,

Their photography is negligible compared to their other duties.

The LILYRIC base performs the best photography of persons visiting the front

gate, perhaps because the vantage point for taking the pictures is from the

second floor and above the street traffic which partially blocks LIVITED

photographs. LILYRIC also does individual reports on LiMERICK personnel

entering and leaving the main gate. LICALLA is used almost exclusively to

identify LIMERICK officials and to support KUTUBE/D requirements in

connection with the LIMESA/LIMUST Projeci. AS ap indication of the eifect-

iveness of ILICALLA photographic coverage, the Mexico Station nas all the

LIMERICK otficials identified. Beforethis base was activated more than two-

thirds of the LIMERICK officials were unidentified. In order to support other

operations, it is considered essential that the Station identify all LIMERICK

In this respect, LYCALLA hasiprovided host ot the necessary intor-

officials The retention of this bage adise considered vital to the security of

the LIMUST portion of ihe LIMESA

The Station does not agree that the color photograony and moving

pictures are a luxury.

Color slides were made for identification purposes

and have proved useful, particularly in identifying facial features and skin

The motion pictures were made at Headquarters suggestion (Please

see HMMW-7687, 29 May 1959 and HIVIVIW-8438, 26 January 1950).

00C4085

126,22

166 10

6 &

957 53

CUT PreTON

SECRET W

S ANY

E ONINGSO

---

## Page 45

4-1JJJ19

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATICI

SPERET/HAK

LOSTCH YAO, AND NE

HIMMA - 1479:

SuK-1762

5. In conclusion, the Station would like to point out that the "photo-

graphic basehouses" represent an integral and significant part of the Station's

counterespionage effort against the LIMERICK installation.

not produce Foreign Intelligence and should not be considered in such a light.

i ti

Willard C. CORTIS

6 April 1960

Distribution:

3 - WHD

2 - Files

REPRODUCTIGN

0064306

1*530

w!:/:09..

see ji. die i. 22 1

65

57.

---

## Page 46

14-00000

TUESDAY 1th OCTOBER 1983

Coverago: 900 to 1900

LOg Film 143

20 Еахр

Weather 1/100

Jw' Camera Setting 3.5-2.5'

1 1251 ZURM platican con KAZ en el Jardin

2 . ..... T T D D Ds DL raOD DODi i

T4863924842%82684898%8646%888694ND4

WEDNESDAY, 2 OCTOBER 1963W-

144848689866831994338

Coverage: 900 to 1900

3 1139 ANOV

(0)

out UM*

a Merte

por Tacubaya-Despide DEN-en Chev

375

s0 n n 11 19 i8 1 19 1099

19 дееоộde во dododo de ofds df is of n0lo se sf 10 10 1e n 1e 1e 18

5 1150 U MM

6 1205 LEON

out a Norte por T'acubaya en Ford37 verde (entr81141)

in 2URM de Oriente por Chicontepec de Falcoa

71033 DF

372

8 1216 UMM

9 1216 UAY

in

de Sur por Tacubaya de camionota Chev(sali81218)

52137 DF

10

in

de Sur por Tacubaya

!OHHHHHHHHHHAnnD:A0

l ikeinle

2Oi in. ( 21

11 1222 U 1 M;

out a Norte porffacubaya

12 "TTü "H""

" 11 :8

wwin ie

13 0 M 1 19 19 19 10 19 89 19 19

14 1248 VAZQUSZ

out a Norte

por

Tacubaya

15 " """""

11 11

111 119

16 1259 ЧІРО

a Norte por T'acubaya de Chev (entr5 1218)

CRG/W86EQQM636Q7626&98686206558136888682431353528%8487887753%

THURSDAY 3 OcSOber 1953

Doyerage: 900 #o 1900

101200 UMH

-it

de Norte por facubaya

13 120# U M W

Tat, a sorte por Iaenhaya di tard

0 +1

"lDDDODN D D o D DyC DiS DT?

201213 UMM

do sum por

•1 1222 U

out a Sur'

RACUOA ATFE

Dox Tacubayal "!

3882 JF

110 19 19 19

0004087

le6

6 8

---

## Page 47

WEDNESDAY 25 SEPTEMBER 1963 Log Film 143

Coverago: .900 to 1900

"20 Exp

Weather 1/100

Camera Sotting 3:5-2.5°

1 1040 2U HM

207729 DF

8 " 19 N 10 18

те од ее ее 8889 89 89 88 88 88 88 88 то во D9 89 D9 18 D0 88 89 D0

CM/N6C/%873T3278386Q1868Q8BE8882888684926888&78878

FRIDAY 27 SEPTEMBER 1963

Coverago: 900 to 1900

71018 UMM

in UNW de Oriento por Chicontepec de Gordini

68909 DF

"" " "18

de se 8 10 0 89 8888 do de 88 8e 08 00 se 88 19 88 08 08 19 19 18 98 19 89

1 D 10 89

9 10222UM

in de Oriente por Chicontepes de VWagen(placas no se van)

10 1037 2U MM

out a Norte por Tacubaye

(entraron 959)

' 11 " "" "19 19"00"

12 1018 UM M

13 X048 UMM

1+ 1032 U MM

out a

Sun

por

out Unw a Nortg

ID PP 1D 18

Tacubềy

A (entro 1047)

por Tacubaya en Gordiai

out a Norte por Tacubaya en Vilagen (placas destruidas)

68909 DI

15 1105. V.AH

in de Sur por Tacubaya UnVespera en Pontiac

16MM 9M 9 81 M 8 M 9 M M M ! Y 8 1 8 19 8 19 19 19 19 19 99 10 10 89 09

LK3265 TOX

18 07

+11v811

13 1107 U Y " que espia para dentro del CLUB(ro sa las 1108)

18 1128 UH1

out a triente por Chicontapes ¡CAPLOADA DEL CLUB???)

13

1199 Un?!

aut MAl a vorto por facubaya pide 108 en Pontiac

LX5255 73X

20

13:989994888195929988408832998 828889)

pontiae conmetile

LodantI blanco 1X5288 de Texagdr99:enl4: 8409999919799979

21

De le de lo de de de d9 d0 d0 de e

18 28+9 1919

it

22 1 1999

7 71

+1119

59 18 11

19 69

71 47

?..0

read.

0064088

6 8

---

## Page 48

TO

INFO

DISPATCH

Chiof, WH Division

CLASSIFICATION

SHer

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

HIRA- 11710

MEADQUAZTERS FILE NO.

50-0-25/3

50-5-74/2

FROM

DATE

SURJECT

Chiot of Station, Mexico City

Operational/LIPIY Station File Breakdown

10 December 1959

RE: "43-3"' - (CHECK "X"' ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ACTION REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

Nones

for Headguarters information onl

BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

REFERENCE(S)

(A)

HИW-6968,

(B)

HIMMA-11257,

ile breakdown ior the LIliPPY

In reply to the rage DaH D TEl

led in reierence (A), listed below is the station's

50-5-741

12

133

Plans & Developments

Support

Operations (Genaral)

Operations (GERENDE Contact Reports)

Operations (SCATLING Contact Reports)

Production

50-6-7415

-

/53

-

50-6-7415

50-6-7417

LIMIIED Administration

LIUNED Operations

LLITTED

Logs

LILYRIC Administration ISIN

LILYRIC Operations-

155

/7B

-

-

-

LICALLiA

50-5-7413

-

/EA

/33

-

50-5-74/9

191 -

L'ENTRAP Administration

LENRAP Operations

LICITRAP LOgS

LIJERSEY Administration

IIJERSEY Operations

Willant o. Surers

Mi0:2r3

25 rosamner 1958

Discrisntion:

3 - 113

2• Lius

JION

PROMUBITEND

0004089

IS EDITION

!:: 5:3

.. . . .

se: 68/09-08

17674

---

