# 104-10418-10308

## Page 1

TAAI

1104-10418-10308

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

"LASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

10 SECRET

11

: DIRECTOR

• CHOCKHOLM

1: CAN 4 CUR WHITTEN, Wi, NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED 1150 28 NOY 63 OU)

• DC:, D/DCI, DDP; C/C/2, VR#

;E CRET 25/12322

PRIORITY DIR CITE STOC 4314

TICRIBBAGE/1

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 24 MAY 1976

_IMPDET CL BY 0/3225.

28 No 63 IN 696 1 3

NEWSPAPERS SQUIB "DAGENS NYHETER" OF 25 NOVEMBER STATES

THAT LEE OSWALD PASSED THROUGH SWEDEN DURING OCTOBER 1959. ARTICLE

ALSO ADDS THAT OSWALD WAS UNSUCCESSFUL IN OBTAINING VÎSA TO THE

USSR IN HELSINKI WHICH RESULTED IN OSWALD RETURNING TO STOCKHOLMO

TWO DAYS AFTER ARRIVAL IN STOC OSWALD TRAVELED DIRECTLY TO MOSCOW.

CONCLUDING SENTENCE STATES "THIS INDICATES THAT THE RUSSIAN EMBASSY

¿STOC) GAVE HIM A VISA." TITRE BEING REQUESTED GET PRESS FULL

STORY AND SOURCE.

2. AT 27 NOV MEETING WITH TICRIBBAGE/I REIDEMANN QUERIED T/À

AS TÖ KNOWLEDGE THIS TRAVEL. TÁL, AWARE THIS ARTICLE, HAD ALREADY

CHECKED ALL FILES OF IDEN 1, FOR THE YEAR 1959 FOR INDICATION OSWALD

for FOlA Review on

TRAVEL THROUGH IDEN 1. TÜI WAS NOT ABLE TÓ LOCATE ANY RECORD OF A

VISA REQUEST FOR OSWALD DURING EITHER OCTOBER 1959 OR ANY OTHER

APR 1976

LOUTH OF 1959. TÄL FINDS THIS MYSTERIOUS INASTUCH AS IDEN I HANDLED.

ALL AMERICAN VISA"REQUESTS FOR TRAVEL TO THE USSR AS WELL AS

"PRACTICALLY 100 PERCENT" OF ALL VISAS ISSUED FOR TRAVEL TO THE USSR

IN STOCKHOLM WITH THE EXCEPTION OF CASES WHICH THE SOVIET EMBASSY,

STOC, VISAED DIRECTLY FOR REASONS OF THEIR OWN INTEREST.

Tởs

201-289248

D: 200-5-41

GROUP

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

achuded lean outomatte

doragrating ood

doctorsifestion

Copy No..

Document Number

203-82

---

## Page 2

13-00000

See Sanitized File

• Number

For sterile copy of this docudent,

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE.

IN_

69613

_ PAGE 2

GIECKED EVERY VISA REQUEST FOR 1959 PLUS ALL VOUCHER COPIES AS WELL

AS ORDER SHEETS AND ALL CORRESPONDENCE FOR SUCH TRAVEL WITH NEGATIVE

LESULTSA THIS CHECK WAS ISADE WITH THE CONCURRENCE OF T/S'S SUPERIOR,

IDEL: 2, WHO ALSO IS PUZZLED AS TO HOW OSWALD RECEIVED HIS VASA IN

"TUC DAYS" WITHOUT GOING THROUGH NORMAL CHANNELS.. AS A RESULT OF

F/I'S NEGATIVE CHECKS, IDEN 2 CAUTIONED T/S NOT TO DIVULGE THIS

INFONMATION TO THE PRESS.

3. 7/1 AND IDEN 2 CONCLUDE THAT OSWALD MUST HAVE BEEN VISAED

DIRECTLY "BY THE SOVIET EMBASSY., STOC, ALTHOUGH THEY HAVE NO EVIDENCE

TO CONFIRM SUCH AN ASSUMPTION. I/L HAS CONTINUING ACCESS TO ALL :

FILES OF SUCH TRAVEL AND IS ABLE TO RE-CHECK FILES TO ATTEMPT TO

DETERMINE IF OSWALD COULD HAVE BEEN VISAED USING A DIFFERENT NAME.

INTERNATIONAL EDITION OF NEW YORK TIMES FOR 26 NOV PRINTED STATEMENT

BY DALLAS DISTRICT ATTORNEY THAT OSWALD HAD USED ASSUMED NAME OF •

2,

"HIDELL" AND HAD ID CARD BEARING SUCH NAME. /1 WILL CHECK FILES

FOR POSS TRAVEL USSR BY "HIDELL". ALSO CHECKING VARIANT SPELLING

"Ar

iYDELL" PER QKFLOVAGE RELEASE.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT GPFLOOR CABLES.

!

(

---

