# 104-10164-10091

## Page 1

-00000

104-10164-10091

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

1. SUBUSCT (TYPE MAML IN HUMAN LITERS - SUNNAME IN UPPEN CASE)

CAIN, Richard

2. ALIASES, VARIANI SPELLING, CIC MUMBENS, ETC.

3. DATE ANO PLACE OF BIRTH

CA. 1925

A. CITIZENSHIP

USA

B. PRESENT ACTIVITY AMO LOCATION

8. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

TO

REQUES: FOR GRFEN .!.IST

NAME

CHECK N° 143977

DATE 26 Angrat 2951

CHIEF, F1/D

U ORIGIMATING OFFICER

SA3/I0

ROOM, QUILDING DO 14 Hqs.

EXTENSION

13.

7612

TYPE OF HEDUST (CHECK ON)

• FIRST TIME SUBMITTEO

• AODITIONAL DATA

O RICHECK FOR CURRENT

INTEREST IN SUBJECT (CHECK ONE)

ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

LOCATION

7. PAST ACTIVITIES IACLUDIME MILITARY SEHVICE

ACTIVITY

Sabj, olatas to be assoc, with Acourato

Datostito laboratorias, chicago.

Babf, elaine ensos, with o nonspapers and

WIs veRo, Sor won he naya he lo soing into

Deba f0r Boranbray story on PRD there.

D. OTHER SIGMIFICANI DATA (POLÍTICS, MELTOTON) - AD0 BXTRA SHEETS MHEN MÉTURO

1711101

T. DEBCRIPYION

(6Y0)

(MAIM)

1O, OPOUSE TIF WIFE, GIVE MATON WART

TS. OTHER MENATIO OF IMACOLATE PAMILY AMO ANBOCIAPES

DATES

10 Пот. 60

(RAGE)

(OTHER)

INPORMATION ARQUINGO LGY RT AR AUI EMA) ТЕРНО БОСИ АВ «ОКЛОАТОДУО МАТ ПЕДИЕТ ТИ А БЕАРСИ КАТ ООКА

A31 partisant inforsaslon

RETURN TO CH

lackaround Uns Ont

101

Do Mol Reprodion

4929

NSTRUCTIONS:

10H 001 100

INEERT CARBONI PILL OUT PORME COMPLETELY.

SEND BOTH BHEETO TO 11/D;

ARE 601 10-7

SECRET

101

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SECRET

.....

To: Maureen Builan?

FROM:

FI/D

30 Augavat 1963

DATE

•

C.

0.

SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

A MEMORAROUM I8 ATTACHED MERETO.

MITH THE LIMITED IDENTIPICATIDN MAÓVIOCO IN THE REQUEST, FI/O IS UNABLE TO

DETERMiNE WHETHER THERE IS I#FORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

P1/O MAS NO RECONCISE INFORMATION ON EURJECT.

IF INFORMATION ABOUT THE

SURECT APPEARS AT A LATER DATE, IT WILL BE REPORTEO TO YOU AS lI RECOMES

THE BUNJECT OF THIS REQUESI IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOMING:

.....

pr: cor: + 1940 0181-8097;

++93-7941600199

fire its to ood 117-798493 1718 andy

Her at man lod in Thir

1..05

MOTE TO THE ORIGIMATIMO OFFICE

AMRA THE BURJACI IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR ORPICE, THIS SHEET, MITH THE POLLOMINO GARCELLATION

NOTICE COMPLETRO, SHOULO DE BENT TO 41/0.

AEVIEN YOUR PILE OR PHESE AMRATA PRECURATLY, ANO BRNO TO PI/O THE BMEGIS NOR PERSONE THAT. ANS HO

LOMALA OR BUFTIC:INT INTERESS TO ORMANO A CONTIMUINO MAMA CHECHO PLEADE DO NOT TI& UP PI/D'0

PACITIRS MITM CONTIMUIMO SEARCHED MOR INMONMATION THAT IS NOT ACQUIREO.

• і .4!

TOI

PROMS

F1/0

NAME

ОРГІЄВ ДЕЛІОНАТОЯ

ROOM, QUILOING

CAPRMAION

CANCEL THE STOP CARE FOA THIS REQUEST

SECRET

i/pu

---

