# 104-10121-10009

## Page 1

104-10121-10009

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

115-400/11

i.

DATE

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF LIAISON

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION

FeD 63

TO ::

THROUGH:

Chief, Employee Activity Branch, PSD/OS

The followin

NAME

contact is hereby

BILE

STELA EUPLOVEZS

reported

requested

.to

be eftective on

one-time

cont laving basie.

EMPLOYEE

( Gad:102)

TaOTas E. Bland

NAME

ENT.

7355

EXT.

OFFICE

CDC

OFFICE

NAME.

EXI..

OFFICE

MANIACK

TITLE'

IDt Member,

ORGANIZAT / 00

Dorothe

NAME

EXT.

OFFICE

BUSINESS ADDRESS

Pentagon

MAME

EXT.

OFFICE

NAME

ENT:

OFFICE

PHONE

-Code 11: 8-75085

DESCRIPTION OF LIAISON. COMMENTS, AND NOWN BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

Metlack as formerly

the Aray, Member

on IIc and then became DOD (now

DIA) Member; hovever, since 10 Septenber 1962 she has been designated as the

Ariy. Member on IDC.

The CDC (CIA Defector Coordinator) chair the tuC(Interageney Detector

Conaittee):

Liaison will relate to matters dealing ulta detectors, escapees

and refugees and will include personal contacts and attendance at meetings.

as appropriate.

CLASSIFICATION OF MATTER TO BE DISCUSSED

_ ITOP SECRET

SECRET

DDP/CDC

lso

Dorothy Mọ

Wilson

ORIZED SIGNATURE

7355

EXT.

SECURITY

& Bept 1962 Suntect's so advIsed

APPROVAL

So 083. 245

Authorizat a l

they

6203812465)

aludine

осле

individuals 25

disclosed tore:*

ity for disse

rence of tr

year froz cu

reguest should be surnac

2) 3VE8: 1063

Date 234

at fir l'a'isn ecatact beiween. La

Tie concura

erike and

-i a writtes

3 much si Security:

Chiel Personnel Security Division

D0S-1808

FOR!

10.:

123 USE PRETOUS EDITIONS.

Hiip

EAST TRATTIAS

THEM ARE TO CUA

Bacnground Use Orty

Do Not Reproduce

---

