(0102-10087#8#84 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ales GC bse i

SECRET

j
Ay
: MEMORANDUM FOR: The Review Staff tt AUG 875
a ATTENTION: Mr. Walter Elder
} H VIA: SA/DDO: (John Waller) :
SUBJECT:. Documentation of Castro Assassination Plots
REFERENCE: Review Staff 75/1696 an

1. -Per referent request, we have conducted a review of our
files on incidents and individuals mentioned in the report given
i by Fidel Castro to Senator McGovern... This memorandum contains
! the results of our traces. on the. alleged assassination plots and
the Cuban individuals mentioned in the report... It must: be. borne
in. mind that our files are keyed primarily to names ‘of individuals
_ and_not.by incidents or plots, thereby making the- retrieval process
i difficult. No project file. bearing specifically’ on the,subject of

,

As Mid 1960. Nothing ‘has. been located’ in- records which
ties CIA. .° ! to this -incident,. ~

(1). .Armando CUBRIA Ramos.....According to CIA traces,
CUBRIA was a long-time sabotage expert ard member of. Castro's 26th
of July Movement until 1960, when ‘he apparently turned on Castro.
He was arrested in 1960. for organizing underground: activity
against the Castro regime and was. sentenced to 30 years. imprison-
ment for conspiracy. There is no. record of CIA.contact with CUBRIA.

(2). Mario TAULER Sague. He-was:arrested.on_12 July
1960 in Havana: where he was.caught unloading .arms clandestinely

= | . assassination has been located. Nonetheless, what follows is keyed
introduced into Cuba. There .is no. record. of CIAcontact with him.

“to the chronological order of the plots as described in Castro's
report.

&2,. IMPDET
CL BY: 059115

a
cj. RETURN TO CIA
oof (ceruR Use Onl

Do Not Persie |

SECRET



: )
SECRET

B, March 1961, -°A number of the Cubans mentioned in
the incident wero indeed employed by this Agency ‘inthe. fields
of intelligence collection and paramilitary activities against
Cuba. There is nothing in the files reviews ate
that their mission was to assassinate Castro. Some of those
mentioned were in fact involved in clandestine. infiltration
into Cuba for the purposes of gathering intelligence’ and

carrying. out paramilitary activities in.a-March 1961 mission.

=~" (1) Humberto: SORI Marin. There. is a 201 file.
on the individual. Ia November 1960. SORI,.a,disaffected Cuban
government loyee,. contacted’ a Cuban working on our behalf
and advised him of his desire to work against the Castro
government. On 1 December..1960 SORI was placed under house
arrest by the Cuban Government but escaped with the. assistance
of unidentified friends. on 21.Decomber 1960.: He was exfiltrated
to the Miami area, ‘without CIA involvement, on=19 February 1961.
He was met by a CIA case officer on .2 March 1961. and ‘debriefed
on his activities in Cuba. A Provisional Operational “Approval
(POA) was requested for his use as an. intelligence. source and
subsequently granted in March 1961. He was met again by a
CIA case officer on 5 March 1961, He returned to Cuba
Glandestinely on or about 11 March 1961 without CIA assistance.
Shortly after his return to Cuba he was arrested. and taken to
La Cabana Prison on 11 April. 1961. On 20 April.1961 he: was.
executed by the Cuban militia. an

(2) Rogelio GONZALEZ ‘Corcho. “There is a 201
file on the individual. Our files’ indicate that he was.
Secretary General of the Revolutionary Recuperation Movement.
GARR) in May 1960. .He was granted a POA for contact and
assessmont on 1 July 1960. In August 1960 he was met. by a
CIA case officer in the Washington area to be debriefed. He
was subsequently trained by CIA in radio communications and
paramilitary operations. ile: was infiltrated’ into: Cuba oa.
6 September 1960 as part ofa CIA. paramilitary operation. He
was provided with funds, arms, -and. explosives. -In March: 1961
he was instructed to step up paramilitary. operations. in Northern
Cuba, He was captured on or about 19 March-1961. and was executed
20 April 1961 by Cuban militiamen at. La Cabana::Prison,

(3) Manuel Lorenzo PUIG Miyar:. There is a 201
file on the individual. He:was granted a POA. for use. in
aramilitary operations on 29 November 1960. On or. about
0 March 1961 he was captured and executed on 18 April. 1961.



DL SEUREL 9

(4) [Nemesia RODRIGUEZ Navarette.) Our only
ee of subject indicates that he was involved. in para-.
military activities for CIA. 5 bt Seley

(5) Gaspar Dominguez TRUEBA Varona
a 201 file on. the: individual. He was granted’ a:POA 15 March
1961 for use as a legal traveler to Cuba. ‘and support.agent.
in intelligence collection and paramilitary operations. He
was trained in intelligence gathering. and communications
techniques. He-was arrested -3. April 1961. by the.Cuban G-2,
together with. 600 other prisoners. He was: executed 19 April
1961. at La Cabana Prison.” c .

(6) Bufemio Jose FERNANDEZ Ortega. There is a
201 file on the individual. . There is no-known CIA involvement
with subject. A one-time Chief of the Cuban National Secret
Police, he was arrested: on trumped-up charges in April 1961.
He was executed on 20 April 1961 together with Humberto SORI
Marin and others. .

(7) Rafael DIAZ Hanscom.. There is a 201 file
on the individual. A POA was granted 25. January 1961. for
use. in intelligence collection and paramilitary’ operations.
He ‘received intelligence and paramilitary training.: He was
involved in the March 1961 CIA paramilitary: operation and
was. captured by the Cubans. He was executed on 20 April: 1961.

(8). Gabriel RIANO Zequeiro. / One: Gabriel "RIANO
appeared on a list of prisoners in Guanajay Prison as of
May 1971. There is no known Agency connection with RIANO.

(9) We have no identifiable information or
indication of CIA involvement with Dionisio ACOSTA Hernandez;
Oreste FRIAS Roque; Eduardo. LEMUS Perez; Narciso’ PERALTA: Soto;
or Pedro de CESPEDE Company. -- : ot 2

C. June.1961. Nothing has. been locatéd in: records
which ties CIA to this incident. a8

(1). Juan BASIGALUPE Hornedo. We have no’ pertinent
identifiable information on.this individual.. «© °..

ean t (2) Guillermo-COULA: (aka. CAULA}: Ferrer,” : ‘We: have
_nopertinent identifiable ‘dnformation on ‘this:individual.

(3) Higinido MENENDEZ Beltran. “:His name appeared

on a list of prisoners in Guana) ay Prison in. Pinar del: Rio,
Cuba. There is no indication he had’ any relationship with

a5

> SEORET



“yt

D. July 1961. Some of: theindividual’s mentioned
in the report were indeed employed by.:this Agency in para-
military activities .dirécted against.Cuba. There is no
confirmation in the records reviewed that their- mission was
assassination of Castro.. } 3 ae .

. (1) Eniito Adolfo . RIVERO Caro.._)There is a 201 °
file on this individual. He was granted ‘a: POA 30 January 1961
for support of paramilitary operations. against Cuba. Ile was
clandestinely infiltrated into Cuba. in.a.CIA operation-on
3 March 1961.. He was. arrested on or about’ 9:March 1961. As
of November 1972 he was. believed to beheld prisonén in Cuba,

(2) Adolfo: MENDOZA.. He is: probably identifiable
with Adolfo GONZALEZ Mendoza. There is a 201. file’ ion the
individual. An Operational: Approval (0A) was granted for his
use in paramilitary operations against. Cuba. He worked as a
--radio operator for infiltration teams. . He left ‘Cuba via the
~ Chi Embassy and traveled Mexico/Panama/Chile. He. later
Het eae Honduras. There has been ‘tio contact with him

since 1962. ; ms . ‘

POY eee oa a sige
(3)[Jorge GARCIA Rubio Caro.) There is a 201
file on: the individual. ‘A.POA was granted 30 January 1961
for use in supporting paramilitary operations. . He-'was
infiltrated into Cuba in a CIA operation on 3 March 1961.
He was. arrested on or about. 9 May 1961, _

ad

YH There isa

om (4) J
of” 201 file on the E avviduat, Ne was. working ze CIA at the

time of his arrest on 9 August.1961. First’recruited in
1960, @ POA was.granted on S January 1961-for use in para-
military operations. There is no. information contained in
the files reviewed which. indicate he was. involved in’ assassi-
nation attempts. . . :

a

There is a.201 file on

(5) an
Vv the individual. ‘He.was recruited in. 1960 for -use: in- intelligence

gathering. In September 1960 he was’ trained by’ CIAin-paramilitary
operations and Anfiltrated into Cuba’ on” 29 September.1960, when

he. began organizing resistance: groups.-at: TA direction... He. 7
returned to the. U.S. in: February 1961:'for. debriefing and...
returned to Cuba in May 1961.. In July.1961 he reported: that
sabotage operations’ were being planned: for 26.% ly:'1961. A

Cuban refugee confirmed his-arrest’ in July; 19 There: is ‘rio

y? information in the files reviewed. to'-indicate ‘that “he was

\ (reese to attempt to assassinate Castro,



“gene «=

(6) We have no -identifiable. information or
record of contact with Jose A. ROSABAL Rosabal,- Emilio
hee Gonzalez, Rafael RIQUENES Maceo, or. Jose A. GARCIA

AZ.

E, July'1961.. Although CIA had operational
relationships with various individuals. mentioned. in the
report, over a long period of time and relating to a variety
of operations, there. is: nothing in files revigwed to indicate
that CIA was. involved in the described’ incident. There is
also nothing in files reviewed to indicate that. any of the
andividuals mentioned were directed by CIA. to assassinate

astro.

(1) ‘Tony VARONA.. There is a:201 file on. the
individual. A POA was requested in August. 1957.as a source
of information on anti-government activities in Cuba and
later amended for.use in political action activities.. lfe
and organizations he represented were provided with material
and financial assistance in promoting anti-Castro activities
in Cuba until ‘approximately 1962. There..is‘no indication in
his file that he attempted to assassinate Castro or sought
CIA assistance for this purpose.

(2) Manuel RAY Rivero. ‘There-is a 201 file

on the individual... A POA was granted for-.use as*a‘ political
action agent on 25 October 1960. CIA provided support ‘to a
variety of autonomous anti-Castro groups, including the one
represented by RAY.’ In July 1966, subject, reportedly. developed
a plan to assassinate Castro. This plot was not ‘at‘CIA direction.
and no assistance was provided for it. :CIA's. relationship. with
subject ended in 1967.

(3). Aureliano. SANCHEZ Arango. There.-is a 201
file on the individual.. Subject was first:.contacted in,
September 1948 and used sporadically. as. a casual ‘informant
on Cuban internal politics.’ A POA was granted on:12 August
1959 for use in political action activities,.:.He.was debriefed
occasionally by CIA, but: after..1960-he was: not’used. operationally.

(4) Francisco‘ CHANES. Armas: One.Francisco
CHANES is listed as an official of ‘the Cuban Secret Revolu-
tionary Service (SSR). in May.1960.. The name of one Francisco
CHANES appears on a list of: prisoners heldin Guanajay. Prison
as of May 1971.. There is no- record of any CIA ‘contact or
operational relationship with subject. oe Me ot

wy nance? SEGRET


(5) Alfredo Ruperto

Castro organizations.

FERNANDEZ Gamez. Subject
traveled to Mexico, Brazil, and the U.S. in approximately
1960 as a Cuban agent with the mission of. penetrating anti-

There is no record of any CIA contact
with or operational ‘relationship with subject.

(6) Florentino FERNANDEZ. Rodriguez... His name
appears on a list of prisoners hold in Guanajay. Prison as

of May 1971.

(7) Segundo GONZALEZ. Gonzalez... He is listed as
Revolutionary Secret Service and special
agent to investigate anti-Castro- activities in. Marianao, Cubs
in 1959-1960. There. is no record of: any CIA contact with or

an agent of the Cuban.

operational relationsh:

ip with subject.

(8) We have "no identifiable Gngormation oT. any
Net with Roberto COSCUYUELA:Valcarcel,

indication of CIA cont:
Oriando ULACIA Valdes,

Francisco GIL Cruz, Jo:

Pedro ASCARATE Carbonell, ‘Angel del TORO Pere

Marmol, Jorge VAZQUEZ
F,. 13.-Septeml

Fernandez, or Mario CHANE:

reviewed to link CIA with this incident. “One
in the report was once ‘considered: for use in paramilitary
operations but was not actually used. in any operation. “

“| = @) Antonio J. FERNANDEZ Rodragy
201. file on the individual. -A -POAiwas reques:

use in paramilitary operations on 21-Septembe:

request later cancelle:
in any capacity.

d and subject was not. ‘ult:

(2) There. is ‘no information avai
Jose MARTORE Silva, Manuel BARRERA: Lopez, or, ‘Acolio: LLERDNA z

Morales.

G. © October 1961. ‘There’ is nothing

_ reviewed to indicate: that CIA was involved in

(1). Bernardo PARADELA Ybarreche.

indicate that subject’

political prisoners in, early. Yr

through efforts of th
(2) -Raul

appears on ‘a list of prisoners held “in

Prison in May 4971-

Ss name: ‘appeared on a li
167. who, WeTe.:tO
“Mexican: Red “Cros “

FERNANDEZ “Treve,

se ACENA Quintana,
z, Aurelio HERNANDEZ
iS de Armas.

ber 1961. There is nothing in tho files

of. those mentioned

ez, ° There. is. a
ted for subject's
1960,” The
imately: usod

lable. on Juan

in thé records
this. incident.

our, files
sti of. Cuban’
be released



pe

Vv (1)¢ Juli

(3) Bernardo IGLESIA: Winter. According to ‘a
report dated 10 July 1962, a -fnu IGLESIA,: possibly identifiable
“with. Subject, was active: in-anti-+Castro organizations. .

4) Ruberto GONZALEZ Gonzalez.:: One |Rupert '

“GONZALEZ, p possibly identifiable with subject,.was: sentenced
to.20 years in prison: for anti-Castro activities ‘in. Cuba.
He: was. arrested December 1963.

H. Barly 1962, Although CIA had an: operational.
relationship with.one. of the: principals. mentioned in the
report, there is nothing.in the files reviewed to indicate
that he was directed by CIA to. assassinate. Castre.

IRNANDEZ Rojo.{ There. isa “201 file

on the individual. Subject worked in the Directorio
Revolucionario Estudiantil. (DRE)‘against the. Castro government
inside Cuba. We had our first contact with. him in: September
1961 in the U.S. and provided him with’ some material assistance
for paramilitary operations.. His POA for use in paramilitary
activities was granted 3.January. 1962 andcancelled 8 November.
1962. The date of his return to Cuba has not been established.
He was arrested in Cuba. in approximately October. 1962 and:
subsequently sentenced to 30 years imprisonment.

(2) Raul CAY Hernandez and Raul .CAY: Gispert.
Our only trace is on one Raul CAY, indicating. that in. December
1963 he was suspected of being an agent of the Cuban internal
security service. 5
(3) Humberto GOMEZ Pena. ‘As of September..1962-
subject was reportedly organizing Cuban resistance roups,.
among Masons inside Cuba... ~_ ed

(4) Jose Luis CUERVO Calvo... In-1962 “subject
was reported to be grand master of the Masonic: Lodge. in Cuba
and leader of anti-Castro Masons. He:.was arrested ‘bythe.
Cubans on 21 September 1962. ,

I. 13 March 1963.. There is no indication.in files
reviewed to indicate. that CIA was -involved-in this incident.
We had sporadic contact.with only one.of.the.subjects: mentioned
in the report. Although’ we “had. Several contacts with him,
he was not under our direction and our. last:contact occurred
two years prior to the, alleged incide Baek : “



SECIEE

(1) Higinio DIAZ. Ane. There. is a.201 file on
the individual. The CIA.was in. sporadic-contact with subject
from approximately March 1960. until -mid 1961. Heparticipated
in the Bay of Pigs invasion. The Agency had no. contact with
him after mid 1961.

(2) ‘We found: no. identifiable: information on.
Samuel CARABALLO Moreno,, Ricardo OLMEDO Moreno,. Luis David
RODRIGUEZ Gonzalez, Jose eee tere Redvagua’s: or Juan
Lucio MORALES. Sose., - woes

Je T ‘April 1963. There is nothing: in’ gecoras
reviewed to indicate that CIA was: involved in this incident.

(1) We have no. identifiable ‘information on or
any indication that we ever had contact with Enrique RODRIGUEZ
Valdez, Ricardo LOPEZ Cabrera, Jorge Carlos ESPINOSA Escarles,
or Onorio TORRES Perdomo.

K. 26 July 1963. A review of files. indicates: no
CIA involvement in this incident or record of any CIA contact
with the principals mentioned: in the report. 7

(1) Rene SIGLER-SANCHEZ. Bvias. The name of one
Rene SIGLER appears on a list of prisoners ‘held in Guanajay
Prison, Cuba as of May 1971.

(2) Jesus MONTES: de Oca ‘Cruz., He islisted in
1953 as a Communist Party member in Cuba‘ and his.name appears
on a list of prisoners held, in Guanajay. ‘Prison. as of May 1971.

(3) We have no identifiable information on
Eliecer RODRIGUEZ. Suarez, Tbrahia MACHIN:Hernandez or Oscar‘
SIBILIA Soria.

L. 28 September 1963. Nothing. has been docated. in
records which ties CIA directly to ‘this incident. 7

(1) We have’no identifiable information. on”
Tete yf operational. interest: in: Orlando-Martiniano)de: la
RUZ Sanchez, Juan. Israel CAZANAS Leon, Jesus Piac: RODRIGUEZ ~

- ,. Mosquera, Luis Beltran Federico: HERNANDEZ Gonzalez. :

(2) Pierre Juan DIEZ de Ure, ‘There ‘is.ia 201
file.on the individual. DIEZ-is' identified: in. our files as
a French-born naturalized Cuban citizen.’ His’ file’ indicates
that he was arrested by the Cuban G-2 on “ET October™1963.
cere is no. record of any operational. arenes ins hin, bias



(3) Francisco BLANCO de los Cuetos.. Our only
trace indicates that Francisco BLANCO was arrested -by ‘the
Cuban G-2 after having-been denounced by Pierre Juan DIEZ
de Ure after his. arrest, noted above. "

M. March 1964. .CIA ‘had an operational, relationship
with both. of the persons. mentioned in the report at the time
of the incident. © In..1963 and. 1964 both persons.made proposals
to CIA to assassinate. Castro but in each instance they. were.
told that CIA and the USG did not condone such attempts: and
no commitments were made. 5
ones (1) Mario SALABARRIA Aguiar. There is a 201
file on the individual. A -POA was requested on subject for

$6 as'an. operational..support: assetyin.an intelligence ..
gathering net inside“Cuba.;*.We did not deal ‘with him, directly
but communicated through third parties... In early March.1964
subject proposed an operation to his ‘contact.'to. assassinate.
Castro and-asked for pistols, ‘.a.submachine. gun equipped with

a silencer, several .30 caliber machine. guns, and some dynamite.
On § March 1964 CIA advised his contact to:tell subject that
CIA would not help him. in this effort. According.:to. CIA
records, subject and his accomplice were arrested in June or.

~. July 1965 and sentenced to 30 years confinement.

oY .. neo ‘
(2) Bernardo MILANES Lopez.| There is a 201:-
file on the individual. .-He was. recruitéd. in: December’ 1963

- to be a source of intelligence within Cuba. At the time of

his recruitment he told CIA. of his’ plans-to assassinate

Castro and other Cuban government: officials. He. said-that

he was one. of the principal conspirators involved in the

plot, together with Mario SALABARRIA’ Aguiar.. Subject requested
CIA assistance. for the attempt.’ CIA immediately: informed. him
that the USG did not. condone such attempts: and no‘ commitments
were made to assisthim. | Pg pe St og ee .

N. Mid 1964. Some of those mentioned, in..the report
were indeed working. for CIA at. the timeoftheit.arrest. Two
of the subjects reportedly:tried to poison Castro. but there
is no indication inthe ‘files. reviewed that the. assigned. .
mission of the group was to.assassinate Castro. or, thatthe
poison was provided by CIA. 4 o

“(1) Osvaldo. Valentin’ ‘
trace:on subject. is:that his-name: appeared ona qi.
prisoners being ‘held. in Cuba at: the : GuanajayPriso
May 1971. There is no record of-any CIA.contact
relationship with him: : Hee nc .



SECRET

9g
(2) Ramon GRAU Alsina.} There is a 201 file on

the individual.’ He was employed by CIA as. head.of an intelli-

gence gathering net at the time-of his. arreston 21 January:

1965 and was convicted-of espionage on.behalf. of CIA.» There

FA no indication in his file that he was directed. to’ assassinate

astro. : c ee dee Be ee

ou. : oe
; (3)GGoopoteite GRAU Alsina (sister of Ramon GRAU
Alsina).] There. a 201 file on the individual.: .A.POA was.
granted for her use. as @ source. of intelligence: in-her nd
brother's net on 17 March:1961. ‘However she. was: terminated
on 18 November 1963. due. to:-insufficient intelligence pyeduction
and lack of. operational security..qj0n or. about :7- September 1964
it was reported. that{Leopoldina: Alsina]was: under ‘suspicion
in connection witl%an aborted jassination attempt: on Castro.
However Leopoldina GRAU Alsina Was ‘not, arrested“until-.2T “January
1965 alowg with her brother. “At that time:.she was,accused of
counterrevolutionary activities. and attempted: assassination

of Castro. A separate report indicates. that the Cuban internal
security organs had allegedly found poisonous’ substances in

her residence, «There is nothing in. the files reviewed to
indicate that Leopol dina was cirected Ey CIA to. assassinate
eereiy or any record to indicate thatthe poisons were provided
y CIA. s sPossons ;

(4) Alberto GRAU Sierra. He'is a distant. cousin
of Leopoldina GRAU Alsina. :He was arrested on ‘7. September 1964
for an aborted assassination attempt against Castro. We can
find. no record of any operational interest in him by CIA.

(5) Alberto CRUZ Caso. At the-time of-July 1966
alleged atgompe to: poison Castro, subject was: working: for.
another U.S. telligence.organization..“ He: was; suspectod of
being a double agent of the: Cuban internal security service.

: “ LEO By oy es Bp gen on

(6)(Jesus Manuel” CAMPANIONI Sousa.) There’.is‘a
201 file on the. individual.:~At the time of hiy arrest “in,
January 1965 he was employed*by CIA as a member of an intelli-
gence-net gathering. information. There. is, no\-indication in
his file that he was.directed to assassinate Castro.

e (7): We: have ‘no: identifiable informat ion:-or™ any
record of CIA contact’ with ‘Ramon GRAU’Sierra, ‘Reinaldo :.FIGUEROA
Galvez, Felipe. ALONSO: Serrera,. Jose: Manuel: RODRIGUEZ. Cruz or
Santo de la .C.. PEREZ. Nunez.” ee : ; i

0. September.1964. Nothing has. been located ‘in
our-records-which: indicates ‘CIA involvement in this:.incident.



SECRET

(ly We have no identifiable information on
or record of operational. interest in’ Nemisio CUBILLAS Perez,
Angle Miguel ARENCIBIA.Viran, or Rolando GALDOS Ranzola,

of), Gregorio: Reynaldo DIEGO: Solano. The: only
information. on Subject lists: him as a. prisoner'~in Guanajay
Prison as of May 1971. : rae 2

P. Early: 1965, Nothing has’ been’ ‘located in‘our.
Tecords which ties CIA fo cu to this-incident,

. (1) Julio Omar: cruz Cecilia; Fermin. GONZALEZ:
Carballo; and Giraldo Reynaldo DIEGO. Solano. We. have no
identifiable information on. and no record of operational.
interest in them. ohne ‘

(2) Rolando GALDOS: Rensoli..” One reference
eatastes subject as Cuban Army Lieutenant ‘in approximately
y . 5 oh £ ee

& ,july 1965. . There is nothing in-the: records
Keviewed.to. link CIA to. this incident in any way.
= = (1) Enrique ABREU’ Vilahu. | -We have no. identi-
fiable information on subject-or any indication that we
had any contact with hin. Po di h

Carlos Vicente SANCHEZ Hernandez ..- We

have no record of any CIA contact with him, - One’ Carlos:
ICHEZ. was declared Persona-non Grata from Miami:'in 1962

because of affiliation with Cuban intelligence."

(3) “Julio RUIZ Pitaluga.:-We “have. no record...
of any CIA contact with him. : He was ‘reported. by. a ‘Cuban
refugee to have been a major in the Cuban Revolutionary .
Army until 1960 when he became:.a. member of an anti-Castro:
organization.- He was arrested by! the ‘Cubans -in. July-1965
and as of September 1966. was believed to be-held ateLa
Cabana Prison. one * 4 :



SECRET

S. Mid 1965. and May 1966... While some of the
individuals were considered: for useby this: and.other USG
agencies, they were not ultimately employed by CIA and
available: records. indicate. we were: not connected with: then
at the time the: incidents: “occurred.

(1) Antonio cuBSTA del Valle. There: is a+201
file on the individual. -Ho: was. considered: foruse by: CIA
in early 1961 as a. crewman for a CIA vessel. involved ‘in
maritime operations. The: file-does not reveal. whether he
was actually used but all interest in him was. terminated in
mid 1961, He was subsequently reported to be a-leader of
“Comandos L", a. Miami-based anti-Castro exile organization.
He was captured in May 1966..after being wounded when his
group attempted to land a team of infiltrators: near Havana.
CIA had no connection with.the operation and the file’ does
not confirm that he was involved in an peeeeeeenase an attempt
against Castro. .

(2) Eugenio Enrique TALDIVAR. Cadena’. There is
a 201 file on the individual, indicating an interest in hin
in April 1966 by another USG agency. 3 file was closed.on
7 June 1966. He.is identified as a member of "Comandos L".
No further information is available.

(3) Sandelio: Herminio DIAZ Garcia. .. There ‘is
a 201 file on the individual... The. file was opened. in:
September 1957 because. of his. involvement with. Honduran’ and
Costa Rican revolutionary activities. He was debriefed by
a CIA case officer in September. 1963 as a Cuban refugee.
At that time he claimed to:be: in‘ contact :with:anti-Castro
groups in Cuba and stated that he wanted’ to assassinate
Castro. He indicated his. intention: to:return: to.'Cuba immediately.
We dropped contact. with him at that. time and never..did have an
operational relationship with him. In danuary 1966°he was
reported to be involved in.a plan by.a Cuban emigre group.to
infiltrate Cuba for the purpose’ of a: assassinating Castro. on
30 May 1966. he was identified: by Radio ‘Hav:
a commando group killed while trying-to-1

However, in August..1973-an individual-with: the .samename.and
year of birth was reportedly involved: in‘, “narcotics: (trafficking
in Costa Rica. A Cuban exile source stated that he believed
subject to be identical. with the nercotics trafficker in
abe Rica. There is No. further Angormation to: substantiate
this. ;



z

2 _ SEGEET

(4) Armando ROMLRO Martinez. There is a 201
file on the individual, -Wis file.was opened on 4 December
. 1963 in response to an indication of interest in him by
another. USG agency. The relationship with him-was termin-
ated following his. arrest in Miami in January.1964 for illegal
use of narcotics’ and possession. of explosives: and automatic
weapons. B . whe

T. 17 March 1967. :.A. review of. Files. does. not
confirm that CIA was involved in this. incident.

(1) Felix ASENCIO Trejo. There is a 201 file
on the individual which indicates that a POA was granted.
on 4 March. 1964. since: sybject was:of interest. to us as a
possible candidate. for paramilitary operations against Cuba.
The POA was cancelled on.20 August 1964 with ‘no. indication
that subject. was ever actually used operationally.

(2) Wilfredo MARTINDZ:Diaz. / We. have no positively
identifiable information on this individual. 5

(3) Lazaro Gustavo ARECES Alvarez... There is a
201 file on the individual which indicates that a POA was
granted 7 July 1964 for intended use.as a seaman aboard a
CIA vessel involved in maritime operations. The POA was
cancelled 8 September 1964:with ‘the indication that the
subject was not hired. %

U. 1971. There is nothing ‘in files reviewed to
indicate that we had any contact with’ the subject mentioned
in the report or were involved in the ‘alleged incident.

ao . (1) Jesus DOMINGUEZ Benitez... .No: CIA.traces: on
“subject were found. ae a ea

= “ 2,. It is noted that ‘the: above totals: twenty-one. separate
analytical sections whereas.:there are . ally. twenty-four.
alleged assassination attempts.” This due: to the fact ‘that
the analyses of the txo incidents of 26: July. 1961 have. been
combined: since. they both occurred’ on the same-day and were
allegedly executed by the.same group. The. treatment of the
alloged June 1965 poisoning attempt is part of. the ‘analysis

. of the mid 1964: incident because ‘the alleged: pepetrator is’ ..

relatéc to the. group described therein. “The. incident. describe

in Castro's report as mid" 1965 has. been ‘combined..with the

analysis of the, 1966 incident since both were. allegedly carried

out by the sane group. woe



3. In summary, of the twenty-four incidents described
in Castro's report, the files reviewed. indicate ‘that CIA
had no involvement in €ifteen of.the cases; i.e... never had
any contact with the individuals mentioned or was not in
contact with then at the time of the alleged incidents. In
the remaining nine cases, CIA had operational relationships
with some of the individuals mentioned but. not. for the purpose
of assassination, . [tis noted that. one case is currently
being reviewed by a SSC staff menber for solection of documents

= to-be-sanitized.. This case (Rolando CUBELA Sécades) was not

ed in connection with this. meuorandun. . Of the twenty-
Cases reviewed, nothing has been. found to substantiate
the charges that CIA directed its agents: to: assassinate Castro.

Raymond. A. “arren
Acting Chief
Latin America Division

Distribution:
Orig § 1 - Addressee
je= SA/DDO
> DC/LAD
- LA/COG/Chrono
1 - L.-Therry ’

LA/COG/OPS/L. Therry:kk ~~ (11 August 1975)

