# 104-10306-10021

## Page 1

1104-10306-10021 5 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

FVES ONLY

2 January 1904

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

PRESENT:

Minutes of the special Group Meeting, 2 January 1964.

Mr. Sundy, Mí. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and General Carter.

Mr. FitzGerald was present for Iteas i

and 2.

Colonel Steakley was present for Items 3 and 4.

1.

Cuba - Proposed Infiltration/Exfiltration Onerations During

January 1954

The infiltration/exfiltration operations in the January 1964

forecast were approved. Three sabotage operations, numbers 3111,

414, and 417, were approved by the Speciai Group subject to the

concurrence of higher authority.

Decision was defcrred on a sabotage

operation, number 413, against the petroleum refinery and storage

facilities near Santiago. Mr. Johnson said that before he could

exercise judgment as to the importance of this operation he must have

an analysis as to what effect the total or partial destruction of.

this refinery would have on Cuban petroleum production and economy

generaily. The Group agreed that such an analysis should be prepared

be presented along with this sabotage operation for Special Group

action at its next meeting.

2. Cuna - Infiltration Exfiltration Operations During December 1963.

Mr. FitzGerald reviewed the accomplishments during the month of

December.

He emphasized a successful exfiltration activity of a

recently activated ratline. This is the secord time in two months

that this ratline has successfully exfiltrated agents in danger of

arrest.

He also gave a resure of the underwater denolition operation

(number 3117) which damaged a Cuban IT boat (Sovieï-type P-6). Also,

during the sane operation self-destroying anti-boat mines were placed

in the harbor entrance to initibit pursuit. Cre of the mines was detected

¿csulting in a Cuban goverment directive to all ports to taic precaution-

¿ry measures.

SECRET

EVES ONLY

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

EYES-ONLY

48

3.

Mr. Johnoon presented a paper dated 30 Dacember 1950 expressing

the State Departuent's concorn regarding a nunter of the missions

rescribed in the january 1964 schedule of tre Joint Recornaissarca

Xx- Johnson enuncrated the types of missions which ne regarded

particularly sensitive, such as:

(2) coordinated or cual missions

s'oiving two planes in the same area at the same tire; (by those flown

tuo close co Soviet territory; (c) radical changes in aitituce of planes

vailc under survaillance of Sovict radar; and (, other radical variations

of route.

Mr. Johnson listed 14 BOX TC? missions on which State Department

needed furcher study before approval would be given. These missions are

a3 follows: Jane, Paula, Ruby, Cliff, Alf, Eric, Marvin, Frenk, Dwight,.

Kari, Lloyd, Everett, Hugh, and Calvin. The Soccial Group requested a

coordinated

position

on these missions as to their necessity and whether

they can be run without a significant or provocative pattern change while

under Soviet radar surveillance.

This coordinated position is to be

picserted to the Speciai Group at its next meeting. All other missions

in the sit forecast were approved.

98

ARD Monthly Recornaissance Forecast.

The WRO forecast (paper dated 20 Deceaber 1963, was approved

as

presented. General Carter gave a resume of the excellence and uniqueness

of the information obtaince in the "y" and "C" series

5..

Die North Vietnan Working GrouD. 98

Mr. Johnson reported that the Interdepartmental Working Group on

North Vietran Operations has about concluded its report.

Ali menbers

of the Spacial Group agreed that the report should be critically noted

at the highest levels of the Government.

It should then be reviewed by

the special Group and presented to higher authority for decision.]

Laus texe

Distribution

Mi. Johnson

Mr. Gilpatric

• Mr. McCone

SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 3

13-00000:300rt3

E

LY,

• 10 January 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of the Special Group Meeting, 9 January 1964

PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone.

The Attorney General and Mr. FitzGerald were present

for Items l and 2.

Colonel Steakley and Mr. Kiefer were present for Item 3.

1. Cuba - Consideration of Sabotage Operations.

Mr. FitzGerald requested the Special Group to approve a sabotage

operation against the petroleum refinery and storage facilities near

Santiago. The proposal was disapproved.

Another sabotage proposal was made by Mr. FitzGerald against a:

sawmill located on the north coast of Oriente Province.

The attack

is to be conducted by a commando team which will place incendiaries

and demolitions at critical locations throughout the installation.

A second

target, which may be attacked as security factors permit, is

a large floating crane which has been anchored in the area and which

appears to be used in loading ore from a near-by mine.

This operational

proposal with its two targets was approved subject to the concurrence of

higher authority. Also, it was the

consensus of the Group that the

views of higher authority should be obtained on what is desired generally

in the field of sabotage activities in Cuba.

2. Cuba - Proposed Clandestine Intelligence Operations.

The Department of the Army requested approval for two operations:

(a) the establishment of a clandestine net using the Second National

•Front of the Escambray, and (b) the infiltration of a radio operator

agent into Cuba. CIA has agreed to provide support for both these

proposals. The two operations were approved.

See special minutes

for additional item

SS2ST

EXTO ANY

---

## Page 4

13-00000 279m09Ab,i:

"98

3.

Revised January Peripheral Reconnaissance Schedule.

The JRC paper dated 8 January 1964 was approved as amended.

No change was made in the following BOX TOP missions: Jane, Paula,

Ruby, Eric, Marvin, Frank, Dwight, Lloyd, Karl, Everett, and Hugh.

Operations Cliff and Alf were amended resulting in the cancellation

of Operation Cliff. Mission Calvin's track was changed permitting

it to approach the Latvian coast no closer than 25 nautical miles

rather than 20 miles as originally.proposed.

Mr. McCone raised the question of the increasing number of flights

authorized by the JRC. Colonel Steakley said that the nunber of sup-

porting flights required for every reconnaissance platform was largely

responsible for the increase. He also pointed out that there is

currently a review of COMOR requirements for Cuba being prepared

to

determine whether they can be eased in order to permit a considerably

lessened operational schedule:

4.

98

Monthly Report No. 12 on North Vietnam.

This report was noted by the Special Group

Distribution

Mr. Johnson

Mr. Gilpatric

Mi. McCone

DIES ONLY

z/mc

---

## Page 5

13-00000

D:2

31 January 1964.

AEESORANDUAI FOR TIR SPECIAL GROUP

SUAJERT:

proposed Cuban Operations for February 1964

special Group meabers approved by telephone the following

1n31eration/ exfiltrailen operations proposed for february:

Durabara 412, 415, 421, 422, 423, 425, 3121, end 3126.

(paxations Involving caboLagO fELDers 414, 424, 3111, and

3812) cera noz considered ty Group membera pending eu overall

reviey of cuben oporations, nou completed but not you studied.

Peter Jasoup

P9z. Johnson

sit. tictora

---

## Page 6

13-00000

MSC

SECRET

EYES ONLY

14 February 1964

File

MEYORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of the Spocial Group Meeting, 13 February 1964

PRESENT:

Mir. Bundy, Mir. Johnson, Mr. Vance, and Mr. McCone.

General Maxwell D. Taylor, MI. Tionas A. Mari, are

Mr. Desmond FitzGerald were present for Item

Lt. General Marshall A. Carter was preseni for

Items 1 and 2.

1. Cuba - Covert Activities.

A lengthy discussion took place on covert action potertial

to weaken

the Castro regime:

The first part of the discussion

constituted an exchange of opinion of a general nature.

The following points were emphasized: Continued covert

action received support altiough divergence on the level of

activity was registered. There was a consensus that the present

level of operations was no longer effective in attaining the

basic objective of toppling Castro but harassment might keep

the regime off balance. There was an area of disagreement on

proofs of effectiveness of current and past measures.

Mr. Bundy summarized the dilemma by noting that the high

risk, dangerous operations are the rewarding ones and the low

noise, innocuous operations prove to be unrewarding.

Mr. Mann emphasized that considerably more homework had

to be completed before the next OAS meeting (presently unscheduled).

Mr. Bundy indicated that a Cabinet level meeting with higher

authority would have to

be held eventually to determine how far

the United States was willing to go. Mi. Bundy turned the discussion

to the specific Department of Defense paper.

On Sabotage, Mi. Vance stated that he could speak for

the Secretary of Defense; his attitude had turned to a harder

line.

On Harassment of Free World Shipping to Ciu?, para-

graph 2.a. was considered work in progress.

Or paragraph 2.b.

the attitude was negative, particularly as to sips of other

than Cuban flag.

SECRET

EVES ONLY

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SERRET

On Covert Economic Activities, paragraph 3.a. is

part of the present program.

Paragraphs 3.b. and

are part of an overall blacklisting problem which

remains

to be explored.

On Encouraging Dissidence Among Factions, the

consensus was to intensify these activities.

Actions against Cuban Subversion in Latin Anerica,

paragraphs 1 and 2: A good look should be taken at this

Lype of activity and a determination should be made on a

country-vy-country and case-by-case basis.

On the last paragraph of the paper, it was decided

that these efforts constitute work in progress with the

exception of shipping surveillance which is under active

study by the Department of Defense. A paper on this

problem will be ready next week.

- It was understood that

this was an expression of members' opinion on types of

action but that specific operational proposals would be

submitted to the Special Group as heretofore.

Mr. Bundy then asked Mr. Mann to prepare papers covering

the major issues of Caribbean surveillance, the blacklisting

of firms trading with Havana, covert actions, and types of

retaliation.

2.

Review Programs

On the review programs for Japan, France, Tibet, Taiwan,

and China, it was agreed that the papers as prepared were the

most useful way to present the material to members. Mr. Vance

indicated he had a number of questions in depth but that he would

not take the time at this meeting.

Mr. McCone then directed that.

the area specialists would be made available at Mr. Vance's con-

venience to answer any questions he might have. Mr. Bundy

concluded that since a time factor was not involved, formal approval

of these papers could be made at a future meeting.

Mr. Johnson

remarked that State had already registered its approval.

peter Jessu'j

Distribution

Mr. Johnson

Mr. Vance

Mr. McCone

---

## Page 8

13-00000

24 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Minutes of the Special Group Meeting, 20 February 1964

PRESENT:

Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Vance, and Mr. McCone.

98

LThe "proposed Covert Funding of the

was approved by the Special Group.

The previously considered review program papers on France,

Japan, Tibet, Taiwan, and China also were approved.

The minutes of the Special Group meeting of 13 February 1964

were modified

at the request of Mr. Vance in the following context:

In paragraph one under "Cuba - Covert Activities," subheading

Sabotage, the phrase "he fully supported the paper under discussion"

has been substituted for "his attitude had turned to a harder line."

betinfem

Peter

Jessup

Distribution

Mr. Johnson

Mr. Vance

Mr. McCone

See Special Minutes

for additional item

Inc.

---

## Page 9

13-00000 55

28 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes

of Meeting of the Special Group, 27 February 1954

!

PRESENT: MI. Burdy, Mr. Johnson, Mir. Vance, and Mr. McCone.

Mr. Bruce Cheever was

also present for Item 1.

1. Cuba

The Special Group approved the following infiltration/exfiltration

and/or caching and resupply operations: Numbers 411, 3121, 415, 422,

431, 3126, 432, 423, 416, 433, 434, and 3122, with the proviso that

in regard to Number 434, a double agent operation, the cache would

contain money and medicine but no weapons in case the Cubans decide

to terminate the operation and publicize the cache.

The four sabotage missions, specifically Numbers 414, 3111, 424,

and 3112, were again placed in abeyance pending eventual resolution

by higher authority of the entire problem of higher noise level

operations.

98.

2.

discussion..

Peter Jessu

Distribution

Mr. Johnson

Mr. Vance

Mr. McCone

Please see special minute

for addicional items.

Yac

---

## Page 10

13-00000

3 April 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Special Group, 2 April 1964

PRESENT:

Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Vance, and Mr. McCone.

Mr. Desmond FitzGerald was present for Items 1 and 2.

Mr. John Waller was present for Item 3.

Colonel Ralph D. Steakley was present for Item 4.

I:

Cuba - Proposed Operations during April 1964.

In discussing the proposed Cuban operations for the month of

"Äpril 1964 and three separate papers submitted to all members for

noting, the following conclusions were reached: The five infiltra-

tion/exfiltration operations were approved as were the five caching

operations:

However, the five sabotage proposals were tabled.

Referring to the paper entitled, "Status of Sabotage and Raiding

Capability against Cuba," Mr. FitzGerald emphasized the economic and

morale aspects of maintaining this potential and the influences of

deterioration when it remains in stand-by status.. Mr. Bundy then

stated that the time was overdue for submitting to higher authority

the entire question of covert operations against Cuba. The problem

of autonomous exile groups and their potential for conducting oper-

ations on their own and the momentum of these groups even if support

should be cut off was also discussed. It was clear that the groups

headed by Artime and Ray constitute a considerable threat.

Mr. Bundy indicated that next week he would call a meeting with

higher authority and the Secretaries of Defense and State. Mr.

FitzGerald would outline the current status of operations against

Cuba, and it was hoped that definite policy lines could be determined

future covert activity against Castro.

-98

Chile - Support for Chilean Presidential Elections of

September 1964

The paper, "Support for Chilean Presidential Elections," was

approved.

Mr. FitzGerald announced that a solution to the slight

difference of opinion between Ambassador Cole and the CAS in Santiago

Please see special minute

for additional items.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

-2-

98

had been reached and that attribution of U.S. support would br

inferred but there should be no evidence of proof.

Mr. FitzGerald

indicated that this was operationally fcasible.

3.

Zanzibar - Proposed Political Action

The paper on Proposed Political Action in Zanzibar was

approved. Mr. Waller gave a short briefing on the operational

climate which emphasized the cooperative attitude of the

and the growing likelihood that

persuaded to support the West more actively:

98

/IRC Monthly Reconnaissance Forecast.

The IRC Monthly Reconnaissance Forecast for April 1964 was

approved.

Peter Jessup

Distribution

Mr. Johnson

Mr. Vance

- Mr. McCone

---

## Page 12

13-000,00

SECRET

23

BYE 2656-64)

28 APR 1964

Series B, Copy!

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT:

Overflight of Cuba on I May

1. Although it may, in fact, have little substance, the thought occurs

that if Castro is seriously considering a "shoot-down" of a U-2, from

a propaganda standpoint he could not select a better time than 1 May,

the traditional Communist holiday, and more significantly the Fourth

'Anniversary of the "infamous" Francis Gary Powers incident.

2. From a psychological viewpoint, identification of a new U-2

shoot-down with that incident on May Day four years ago might have

considerable appeal to Fidel and might conceivably influence his judg-

ment in reaching a determination to take such action.

3. Recognizing that this association is rather tenuous, it might

still be worth considering a stand-down of U-2 overflights on that one

day. This would not seriously impair our intelligence effort and it

would deprive Castro of the opportunity to exploit this rather unique

circumstance should he have any inclination to do s0. OK?

JAMES A. CUNNINGHAM, JR.

Deputy Assistant Director

(Special Activities)

SECRET

---

## Page 13

13-00000 $

?...

Y. ONLY

I May 1964

MMORANDUM FOR THE FECORD

SUBJECT:

PRESENT:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Special Croup, 30 April 1964

Mir. Bundy, Mr. Hughes, Mr..

Cancel and ter. Mccone.

Jance, /ano

Colonel J. C. King and Assistant Secretary of State Mann

were present for Item i.

Mr. Bruce Cheever and Mr. Theodore Shackley were present

for Item 2. Assistant Secretary Mann was also present

98.

1.

The Chilean Situation

During a 35-minute discussion of the 4 September Chilean

election, Assistant Secretary of State Mann and Colonel J.C. King

ourlined some of the problems and prospects for the Frei candidacy.

b.

Some of the obstacles

faced by the democratic forces were

underscored: the strong Chilean anti-clerical tradition, the unimpeded

rise in the cost of living, the formidable outside support being afforded

Allende, the political apathy of the military and the third man candidacy

of Duran.

c.

The Special Group decided: (a) that contact should be made with

Ambassador Cole to urge his return fo: a visit in the coming weeks,

(b) that talks with American business interests should proceed to deter-

mine the amount

and

that higher authority would be apprised of the closeness and importance of

this Chilean election and that the Group itself would continue to review

the problem in the coming weeks.

2.

The Current Cuban Operational Climate and the Proposed Operations

for May 1964.

A 25-minute briefing was provided on Cuban operations by the Chief

of CAS, Miani, Mi. Theodore Shackley. He gave a thorough summary of the

franework in which programs have been established and provided detail

on the techniques used to accomplish these missions. He enumerated successes

achieved to date and indicated the types of difficulty encountered.

Inc

---

## Page 14

13-00000

• 2 -

ONLY

The briefing was well received and members

expressed the opinion

that the session had been extremely useful.

b.

The Special Group approved the proposed infiltration/

exfiltration operations into Cuba during May 1964.

98

3.

Recruitment of

Personnel for Maritime Operations of 34-A.

a.

On the proposal to recruit

personnel for maritime operations

Of 34-A, Mr. Vance and Mi. McCone were in favor and felt that enactment of

the maritime program was long overdue.

It was noted that the Ambassador

had already registered approval.

State, however, requested that the matter

be held in abeyance until the return from Ottawa

on 1 May of Alexis Johnson

and Secretary of State Rusk. Mr. Hughes felt that the introduction of

additional

into this theatre was not in accordance

with existing policy. Mr. Bundy was of the opinion that the proposed

temporary introduction of 64 persons for sea operations was not & signi-

ficant number.

b. As the minutes were going to press on 1 May, the Secretary of

the Special Group was informed by telephone that State Department agreement

was obtained with the following proviso: That an intensive and high

priority effort on training of South Vietnam Nationals be undertaken as

4.

5.:

LAction 29 - OPLAN 34-A

98

Action 29, OPIAN 34-a, proposed by DOD was disapproved.

Monthly Forecasts

98

8.

The NRO Monthly Forecast for May 1964 was approved.

b.

The JRC Monthly Forecast for May 1964 was approved.

Peter Jessu

Distribution

Mr. Johnson

Mr. Vance

Mr. McCone

BYES ONLY.

3mc

---

## Page 15

13-00000

P2:

6

JA JA14

FION TIE COGRDINATOR OF CUBAN AFFAIRS

TO TEB AFICIAL GROUP

standby

Capabl118y for eDe LarschinE ol

inde loaflet Balloons

1. Tho JaTpOSe Of Cala DesOTaNiNs le to present fos

jour consteleration nod approval, a proposal to modify the

surrent states of tho CIA propaganda balloon launchlag

Capability, Il approved, CIA proposes to conse tha rental

of hollun and tanks, uhich vill mean that It Utillentton of

the espabillty is destrod, elther Dopertrent of Defense

111 MEMO tO PTOMINO EDO bOlIUS oI 1t u1Il DAve to be

ComorcialLy proCaTed at tha 11O, These alterantas are

coneldered deceptablo.

2o BACHE

UND: la the fall ol 1963 tho CIA as part of

tho MONiG

posE progras, so approved by the special frosty

(AngmentOl), dovaloped a covert espability for the launehtay

от оторада

nota loaflet balloons tarpatred agnlast Cake. The

CapabIlity canelated el a properly outfItted nerchant

vonsol, osteasibly chartared and operated by Cuben estles.

la Deenaber 1988 asd 1A the PArty noathe Ol 1968, soreral

proposalE Vera Mdo by tha CIA tO NtIllEe tula espaDalIty

canalit

---

## Page 16

13-00000

but onch than they nore tabled for farther connideratios.

Is AyrIl 1983 a sporifle proposil to lonnes propagance

ba1L00nS as May Day 1963 Me subaitted to the spoetal Group

and on 1 April 108S, the proponal dae ilnepproved by lister

antharity (one Menerandas loT HeRbero el the Speedal Group

Iran It, Phases ParTOit, Asted 8 ApPAl 1083). IN then of

(DO PTOVALLIEZ AlLIATIOR, the CIA BrODOAd to AleAaAJO the

ESDAbIIIAY AS 17 VAS ESPORAITO tO MAINTANA ANd IEE DECUTIEY

unE sure to detestorate, Morever, at the 18 April 1903

monttay ol tha special drop, several nembors of the Group

solt that la a exlate ench a espabillty algat be seetal and

18 Tun ASTeal tha CIA voRld stockoslo the balloons, sellera

sEn other optigment anl be prepared to s0uss operattors se

reyndred uthllaing U.S. Havy or other tessels and exers,

to Do providad by the supartuant of Defenso. (dee illastes

01 18 April 1963 Menting of the spesial Groap.) In accere-

anco VICh this AlTectiVo, the ClA bis stored the roquired

aquipmont and bas been beapias bollus on band on a rental

bastes.

3. The anal expense for maintalaing chie capability

6Б б

orandey bunlo las bera approximatoly 130, 000/o1 unles

[31s, soo/he bem for the rental of ballan tanks and coll

ArOsSeS. A ToNteM ol the oapability lasta the CIA to tho

---

## Page 17

13-00000

concluston that the capability can bo mintained st an

seceptable degree of readiness nithoat baular the hollin

tRASO On DARd. In the event atillnatios la costrod, $10

Departueat of Doronse would be able to provide the kellun

sE roll no the launting vessale asd erOME 0s lI pacessary,

bolton could la comercially procured vitals tho true

factos necessary to ready the other cosposents of the

¡JatOs, TO CIA theratoro proposes to toralnate ste

current arrangements tos the rental of the hollon tanke

nad compressor.

¿, It to roquested that approval be grasted for the

CIA 8O PrOCeRA, AS ONElIRed dA pArDETARI & abovo, vIta tha

torstnation of rental contincts for hellun tanks sat eva

---

## Page 18

13-00000

$6: 1.0

EVES ONLY

4 June 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SURJECT: Minutes of the liceting of the 303 Cormittee, 4 June 196!:

PRESENT: Ir. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Vance, and ME. McCone.

98

1

Italy

At the request of Mr. McCone, the paper on the covert action

Program

in Italy for FY-1965 was deferred until he had time to study

it more carefully:

2.

NSAM 303

NSAM 303 was circulated and the new designation for the Special

Group 5412, the 303 Committee, was noted

3.:

North Vietnan

96

The DOD paper dated 19 May 1964 entitled "North Vietnam

Operations" was discussed at some length.

b.

Each annex of the paper was noted. In Annex A, Physical

Destruction Target List, the members concurred in Mr. Vance's recom-

mendation to accept all targets with the exceptions of 1, 5, and 7.

Target 5 was bracketed with Nos. 14 and 15 in Annex B and is subject

to the same treatment indicated below.

In Annex B, Psychological Operations, the listed targets

were approved except that Nos. 14 and 15 were to be examined further

by DOD and CLA on the operational level. Mr. McCone stated that in

regard to the Meo tribesmen (No. 14) this had been a CIA operation for

some months and should be continued to be handled in the same way.

He

further felt that tribal operations of this type should be done covertly.

d.

In regard to Annex C, Intelligence Operations, the targets

1, 2, and 3 were approved

the Conmittee agreed to Mir. Vance's vero

Of targec

See Special Minute

for Additional Item

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 19

13-00000

-2-

Croa

minute also

notes the telephonic approval obtained fron all

members on 30 May fo: a single emergency exfiltration operation in ond

out of Cuba scheduled for

early June.

Peter Jessup

Distribution

I12. Johnson

Mr. Vance

MI. McCone

---

## Page 20

13-00000

SECRET

EVES OMIM

22 June 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of the Meeting of the 303 Committee, 18 June 1964

PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. McCone, Mr. Vance, Mr. Johnson.

Mr. Mann and Mr. FitzGerald were also present.

A general discussion was held on problems arising from increased

activities on the part of organized Cuban emigre groups, independent

adventurers, purported plots to assassinate Castro and the general edginess

and instability on the island.

None of those present appeared to feel that it was either realistic or

practical to sever connections with or to withdraw support from the two

principal emigre organizations, those of Artime and Ray.

The recent escapades and overall capabilities of Manolo Ray were

deplored but it was agreed first: that steps should be taken to get the Puerto

Rican authorities to release his ship; second: that he should be promptly

advised in accordance with the stated policy established by the late President

to cease forthwith all activities from the United States Mainland and find

himself a new base of operations; third: no monies would be forthcoming,

specifically a requested $25, 000, until point two above has been accomplished.

No help was to be offered in finding Ray a new Caribbean base. Mr. Mann

was particularly interested that Ray not be encouraged to transfer to the

Dominican Republic because of the fragility of the regime.

The next subject discussed was the recent visit of Major Oliva to both

the Attorney General and Assistant Secretary Mann. It was pointed out that

Oliva is both a zealot and a man of integrity and that his only interest in life

is leading a return to his homeland. Any attempts to put Oliva into business

would be expensive and undesirable at this time. It was decided that

Mr. Bundy would ask the Attorney General if he would be willing to dampen

Oliva's ardor.

The activities of Artime from Nicaragua were discussed next. Alexis

Johnson pointed out that Artime raids could conceivably provoke Castro into

utilizing Cuban SAM sites; he said this possibility should not be discounted.

But it was also pointed out that Artime's recent sugar mill raid succeeded

in leading Castro to mobilize many persons involved in important sugar

harvesting and thus constituted a successful economic warfare byproduct.

---

## Page 21

13-00000

SECRET

EYES DUEY

- 2-

It was estimated that Artime's schedule of one operation per month was

overly optimistic; one every three months was about all Artime could

accomplish. The decision was to drive home to Artime that his greatest

value was not in hazardous hit-and-run actions but in his survival as a

continuing psychological threat in being.

Mr. FitzGerald, in discussing the current situation in Cuba, stated that

he believed the regime was in considerable difficulty. There has been a

large increase in the number of executions and mass arrests. He also cited

the fact that an entire CIA Pinar del Rio net has been rolled up by Castro's

security forces and the key man executed. The sugar and crop prospects

were not good, the world price having dropped. Some of the members were

surprised at this picture and stated it did not seem to conform to the daily

bulletins. Mr. McCone said that he would ask for a SNIE on the current

situation in Castro Cuba.

A paper was discussed on alleged plans which involve the underworld

to assassinate certain Cuban leaders. Mr. McCone was somewhat skeptical

of the reported plots and stated that he would like to go into the matter further.

Others, including Mr. Bundy, felt that the United States was being put on

notice and should do everything in its power to ascertain promptly the veracity

It was decided that Mr. Bundy

would call the matter to the Attorney General's attention as a matter of law

enforcement.

Peter Jessup

Distribution:

Mr. Johnson

Mr. Vance

MI. McCone

SX2U01

FAS DULY

---

