# 104-10097-10348

## Page 1

104-10097-10348,4

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

decames d

23/77

:9. 6:=

Sé. i

та,

FRUMI

DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

1w.

51/1c 2.

WH 14, FE 22, Gu/, AG/erE an/Re 3 cai

15901

TOCS

315353

2227Z 63

SECRET 21195,32

NOV

21

DIR INFO NITY (VIA FOUCH) CITE MEXI 6994

REF MEXI 6633 (IN 45316)

INTEL/LOHARVEST

SUPDATA SOURCE LIFTER FROM

ECON OFFICER HEFINCH

IS IN GENTROT WITH DIPLOVES OF QUILLERTO NASSERIS FIRT, COMPENSACTON

INTERNACION, IGNICH FRONTING FOR CHINESE IN SETTING UP TRADE FAIR.

RASSER EMPLOYEE SAID 16 NOW THAT DATE OF FAIR STILL NOT SET,

FACCKELY LOULO START LATE DEC OR EARLY JAN. EMPLOYEE HAS NOT

CONTACTER ESCH 077:9ER SINCE, ECON OFFICER ASSUMES HE WILL

WHEN EXACT CARES CET. NO USEX.

FILED 2120172

REFORT CLASS SOONCT A001 C,

SUBJECT FROCENTED DATES. (IN FERNEO CERTAIST

CHINA

CHRISE COMMENIST INDUSTRIAL

TRADE FAIR

DOI 15 NOY 63 FRES FAMICS MEXICS CITY 19 MOY 63

APR 3

SOLACE MUS

89024 107. 07. T2

FES AID MACP

NO CEPARATE CARLE DIGTRICOTION IS DEINO HASE OF THIS TRES.

13459

SILESEE

Malan

FELIANI

EELMONT

FE/TORY

8

RELEASING IT

DATE CISTRISUTED

22 NOVENGER 1963

07412

AS E ORE

BASED 0PI

TOES

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

FAKIRIT!

*AX 8956

LIFTER

SERVER

---

## Page 2

FORMATION RESGATT TENER

CENTEAL LATELIIEINCS AGENET

Tes

esperan

SECRET

1WB5S FANO IN!

COUNTRY

M9F.215.0

CMAMA

CHINESE COMUNIST INDUSTHIA:

THATE

FAit

CHEDUL".

19 50

KiLO IN

M57160 : 18: 1-17

52÷54866 1363

ESFORINO. TDOS-; "".

PRECESINES

CAT: OF

GEESRENCER

1N50.

¡E ROVENSEE 1963

PLACE&

DATE AÇO.

MEXICO, MIX! O CITY (19 NOVENECO 1965)

AFFRAISAL

FIELD REPORT NE

SOLECE

INS S UNEVALUATEO ERCIMATION: FELACE GRAUNGS ARE DERMATIVE: APPMAGAL DA UAIAE

HENDER (O) DO THE POS AÑN ERASO.

•?.

1• LUIS TORRES ORDONEZ, FRESIDENT FOR 1953 AND ISO. OF TAE

SOCICOÃO MEXICANCA DE MISTRO CON CATIMA FOPULAR (SNALP- MEXICAN

SOCIETY EF FRICOSHIP WITH FEÇELLIS CHIRA), CULTURAL CORRIS: 110:

ORGANIZATIC IN MEXICO, SAID THAT THE CHINESE CORTEIST INDUSTR: AL

TRADE FAIR WIJOH IS TO DE HELD IN LEXICO CITY WILL OFEN EN 3

DECEMBER ISÓ3 MIS IS SONEELLS TO CLOSE ON OR ABOUT 17 DECEMBER iS53.

2. TORRES ALSO SAID THAT THE SMACP HAS ASKED VICENTE LOMBARDS

TOLEDAMO, SECRETASY-LENERÁL: OF TRE FARTIDO FOPULAR SOCIALIST

(PPS- POPULAR SOCIALIST PARTY), TO SEE IF ADOLFO LOPEZ MATEOS,

PRESIDENT OF NEXICO, NOULD DE AVAILABLE TO INQUGURATE THE TRADE

SECRET

CLSSRCATION - DISSERANATION CONTROLS

ME LNFORMATION REPORTITYGPAZO

13459

---

## Page 3

TROS- SA

STATE- TORRES SAID THAT HE WAS SURE ARLOVOLNI LOPLE MAFIOS KTINO

COMMY WITHSTHUS REQUEST,

SO-T TELE COMERE DARL TER REPORIS SANO IMAT THE CHINESE CONUNIST

INDUSTE TRADE FATALOULD BE HELD AT TREEL BUEN TONOR AROUNE

ERNER THE LAST HALF OF MOVEMECA ON THE FARST HALF OF DECEMBER

19434

A AS FIELD DISSEMUSTATE ADI CINESO CINCRAS ARRAO PATAP PAUPET.

SECRET

---

