# 104-10186-10177

## Page 1

104-10186-10177

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PORTE

INEORM TONTREPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

into material con

LDS IATOTTIARICA ARIOUS ChA MALONAL DeSENNO Of ChA L'MIIAl BIALES UTTLIR ISO EPARIN: 01 KN4 T.5X.-A60 laTe T11

Do vasemiados of rarelalton of thieh in dil manDer to de ta=-suMera para la parlbiled by l

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO

C5 01-316-00732-65

SUBJECT Henry (possibly his true given namo) DATE DISTR

16 February 1965

NO, PAGES

FIS THAN TO CH

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REFERENCES

CS-311. 00115-64

(page 8)

§ July 1964)

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE & Washington,

D.

c.

DATE. ACQ. JaNuary 1965

FIELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INfORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEPINITIVE

AMANISAL CA CONTENT IS TINTATIVE

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Hear quarters Comments

The following report is one of a scries contsining personality

information

provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the regords of this Agency.

It 1s. requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned

in the porsonality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Henry is the assistant to Eulogio PONS, the administrative

chief of Tramites (Central Processing Section) in the Departamento

de Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation Department - LY) of

the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI).

Source. belleves that Henry is his true

Henry may Siäva. been in the Cuban Merchant Marine

prior to 1959.

Henry, & Negro, was born about 1935. He is about five

feet eight inches tall, weighs about 140 pounds, and has a thin

Henry has a pug nose

and no upper teeth. He speaks Enli lace, a drooping lower 11p,

Headquarters Comment

1.

The records of this Agency revenl no idertifiable information

on Henry.

5

2

STATE

I DIA

1 ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

(Nore: Fiold distribution indicotad by "#*.)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEU

NAVY

1 AIR

CINCSO. #

18$S

NSA

1 OCR

LEBL 2

INFORMATION REPORT

AINFORMATION TRERORI

NiL

SA/EOA

HEL S/8

HELLADR

715-

1 LEKCANADA!

CI/RSA

15

RIDIAN

L WISH BL

-1.8 2357

_IFGA 19115(14Ja:65)

-NO PROJECT (AUSUO/ 1)

10SCt-310-00732,65

POrALs WHI/SA 8

(1),

NE 1 (1), CI 4, RID 1

craison a

iCL BES

19-51

1

OBSOLSTE PREYZOUS LOITIONE

1301

4IBR

---

