# 104-10059-10210

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10059-10210

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WAshingtoN, D.C. 20505.

Executive Ragistry

15-6024

INSPECTOR GENERAL

75-1519

i-vE

28 April 1975

Mr. David W. Belin

Executive Director

Commission on CIA Activities

Within the United States

Dear Mr. Belin:

In accordance with your request, I am forwarding copies

of sensitive Agency documents concerning Chile. One is a copy

of Director Helms' notes of a September 15, 1970 meeting with

the President.

The other is a memorandum for the record pre-

pared by William Bróe, then Chief of the CIA Western Hemisphere

Division. It's the last sentence of paragraph 2. of Mr. Bro's

memorandum that reflects apparent Presidential provisos.

Faithfully yours,

Estsnocha

E. 'H. Knoche

Assistant to the Director

Attachments: a/s

SECRET

Clussilise by

014359

Exempt from garoral

decisssi!:calien concáste of E.O. 18652

exampiion setaduly 53 (1), (2), (3)

Asternaticady daciassised on

Data insessibio lo delannino

5847

att: +o 000174048

---

## Page 2

14-00000

475-100-

If September 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Genesis of Project FUBELT

1.

On this date the Director called a meeting in connection

with the Chilean situation. Present in addition to the Director were

General Cushman, DDCI;.Col. White, ExDir-Compt; Thomas

Karamessines, DDP; Cord Meyer, ADDP; William V. Broe, Chief

WH Division; James Flannery, Deputy Chief, WH Division, Thomas

Polgar, Chief of Station, Buenos Aires,

Chief,

Covert Action, WH Division; and Raymond Warren, Chief, WH/4.

The Director told the group that President Nixon had

decided that an Allende regime in Chile was not acceptable to the

United States.. The President asked the Agency to prevent Allende

from coming to power or to unseat him. The President authorized

ten million dollars for this purpose, if needed. Further, The Agency

is to carry out this mission without coordination with the Departments

of State or Defense.*

3. During the meeting it was decided that Mr. Thomas

Karamessines, DDP, would have overall responsibility for this

project.

He would be assisted by a special task force set up for

this purpose in the Western Hemisphere Division. The Chief of

the task force would be Mr. David Phillips, Chief of Station Rio

de Janeiro, and Deputy Chief of the task force would be Mr. Dino

J. Pionzio, Chief of Station, Bogota.

4. Col. White was asked by the Director to make all

necessary support arrangements in connection with the project.

5. The Director said he had been asked by Dr. Henry

Kissinger, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs,

SECRET / SENSITIVE

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 3

14-00000

to meet with him on Friday, 18 September to give him the Agency's

views on how this mission could be accomplished.

William V. Broe

Chief

Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET/SENSITIVE

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 4

14-00000

MEETING WITH PREDENT

ON CHILE AT ISTS SEPT IS,10

PRESENT: TOHN MITCHELE TIENNY ISSINGER

in to chance pishape, but same chile!

wart funding

mit emer

I rich inner

ut y emany

тато рн, т із ку

guane plan

she the simmy serem

48 hour

" have to plan y estim

whit

imin

MEETING WITH THE PRESIDENT

ON CHILE

1525, 15 SEPTEMBER 1970 - -

PRESENT WERE:

JOHN MITCHELL AND HENRY KISSINGER

---

## Page 5

14-00000

00/07-433

HONCEANDU! 7O%:

SINJECT

Deputy DIrOCtOR HOT D1+1S

Acquest toy Approval to 2c0ri0e

Polyeraph Upcitor ot Debult of

tize

United Shites Socro% 5477403

this monoranian contuins i reconncesction for

B0P apprOTal In paragrapa 1170.

Ca 25 sopletor 1905 the Son Erancisco Dotestic

Operations Base intorned Hecdquarters thot through in

cublished contect choy hod incorchenod Jorge Lugosto

Taphore Carranes, 9ão clairod to bo accive 20 e prarall

In Cunterela 204

Woachras and that he rona yuzee datonio

Von Sons, Arburo Psycra Secoban ale "29 Chang" dod Tong

The ocaesara 20s 24200220111

1E echodilod 2or Dccenber

1906.

Make Inforration tes

pussor to tho lederal Dureau of inventination and the

Nocret survice by the DO Lend 16 Laz Trancisco.

Cn 1 October 1960 the Cechot Fervice an XochAo org

ECo, roquested that thio Locoey sond & 62ak102etpediles

offlex

knowledgeable of Cuctcanãoy acvointloser Eccluishes

to san Francisco to dobrios ragery 10 order do Juice the

validity of the intoneros zepardog the alep to notare

the President.

Ne. Deery joyded, utate cooloyes

prosenty utationnd in Moadco City, vee doiiiiad si. Cle

roodont of lendquarters to porior tie dchrácilar

loydes reported by catte on

& Octobo: 7008 that

4. and 6 October 1907,

2nn0zC69e 10 Vie

fs7e dem

accivities, hit

32XN ChO S0X02X46422 C06602319: 122

alloged annascination plot scoote unitoky.

Mare. Magic

morocton that a polygraph craudacion radis to do 400c.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

On 9 October 1909 Mr. Willian Rhodinda, Secret

Service Agent, said that the Secret service preferred to

walt until the complete debileiing report had been reccaved

before sabnitting Digboro to a polyeron examinetion.

20 October Mr. Rhodunds said that it appocrs that his

sezvice mall want a polygraph exaninat on of bighero

concuctod and requenced that, '1i poacabla, this A00nCy

provide the polygrapà operator.

No said that the bocred

Service would provide cover for the operator in Sin

Franciaco.

It is recommended that the Agency provide the

support requested by the Secret Service in order to try

to resolve the natter of the plot againat the life o^

President Nixon as reported by Dighero.

Therefore, approval

1s requestad to honor the Socret Service's exproscod desira

that this Agency make a poljeraph operator and & spaniel

speaking Vl Division oificer avallable for travel to Bab

ITanCiSCO.

WillianT. Boo

Cidel

Vostern Henlophere Division

Offico of Security

The rocontendation contrined in

paragraph 1179

1. Tolas 6, Yermassines

Peputy Diractor for Pious

2.2 527 1099

ISITAN

---

