‘1104-40171-10003) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

3
of Station, J =
SYRUSE, KL

and “Other Groups"
in PURUMEN

January 1963 9 | MICROFILMEE
UrOAlT027, 28 -Deceaber 1962 (RVOAT) ba
UHGA-7038 December 1962 FEB'4 1963
tEGA-7247, 12 January, 1963 (RYDAT)

January 1963 BOC. MicRO. ax,
MEXI-2629, 13 December 1962 y
Goines CM EK!

damery 1963 AMMINT-27 met with. a ia jew Fat
* York City, anal (QeanTea> dvised him that Jors y Bringuier,
the Secretary ‘of AMSPELL in PBRUMEN”: ds.a.G-2 agent.

fnu), who was anid by (QUANTUN-SOto: be.on the
ADISPELL_Natloaal E thyes were actually G-22 rttlons.: They:
planned to “roll up" the eptire AMSPELL orgeniz 7 a
Kvoups" in one steep and then escape by beat an t AMEINT-53
in the JMWAVE ‘a MEDINA was in contact with AMEUNT=53 while in
PBRUMEN and ptan: to use AMUINT-53 to establish Mts bona fides

with KUSARK,

or. aan os
2. UANTUM-51) further advised that another’mlssion of the
two G-2 agents, MEDINA and AEDO, was to make contact with Iden A
to determine what =gle it played>in anti- CASTRO wetivities. The
seerctary of (QUANTEN-SD had been” a very close, (personal friend of
AEDO's since ?ehi ldhood. “and “AEDO. f
so he’ told her, of his
“and then
LANTUS:

: Distributior
C- C/TF'

Attachnents: 2:
he’ ADEN tds
‘material: oy,

oe, ae oe : : 19-5-1-8 &
#420 1-301693

RETURN to ch,
Backgroun ise
Do Not Reproduoa



THEO OR ANS MR

SECRET I UFGA-7383

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

Reference C is a chronological summary of AMHINT-33's

activities subsequent to his infiltration tn PEE 2 and his

contacts with Chelin, the brother of AMFRET-7. SFRET=7's arrest

‘was reported in Reference B. The AMFRET-7 Caso Officer states

that both AMFRET-7 and his brother were arrested, after shooting *S4-F

it out with G-2 and being wounded. O's avt in Reference D, rare

AMFRET-7's arrest was mado after tant 83]ond Blanca FeMARTINEZ SoS}

de Hoya, aka “Cuca,” ga "Cuchi, “brought MEDINA, AMSPELL's National—

Military Coordinator for Reception and Supply, to Iden A where

MEDINA recognized AMHINT-33, AMHINT-33 said Paar ee was an old

friend of his and had lived near hin. RE G-2 PANE TRAE
Pcasrar epysrgde ao

3S. ANIIINT-33 said further that his brother knows MEDINA, that”

MEDINA is the man whom AMHINT-33 used in 1961 tu check up on *REBELLOD

(fau), the FEU Secretary General in PBRUNEN., AMIHINT=33 added in

his S/W Message 11 of 10 Docember 1962 that “bis friends" are still

in jail,

6. Reference E transmitted a lctter written by AMHINT-33
on 29 December 1962 in which he states that G-2 infiltration is so
great that he considers it impossible to organize anything, ami he
indicatos that some of the agents, as in this case, have been infil-
trated for more than two years, He presumably means infiltrated
into anti-CASTRO organizations and/or activities,

ay

eV 847, Relative to the “other groups” mentioned in para. 1
——nbove, AMHINT-33's Caso Officer believes that AMHINT-33 is probably
Wye referring to the MRR, the MRP, the MDC and athe 30th of Novembor 1?
SS ERFOURS « ‘Tho "friends" mentioned in Para. y be one Eduardo <=3.3,
*BRIXGAS, who is about 23 years of axe, one GOUMI (gnu), and others.
previously referred to but not identified by AMHINT-33; they may

have worked for AMHINT-33. te Got AE aie rien SF ingdet
. CREAN &

8. JMWAVE traces on the individuals averyed dn this plot—-
offer little concrete information,

a, It is noted that Jorge MEDINA Bringuier is listed
on Page 13 of Attachment C to UFGA-1977 as an MRR member, with &
listed aka of Carlos PRADO. JMWAVE tracing identifies one Carlos
PRADO as “a brother of Raul, the head of G-2 in Las Villas Province,"
aS-reported in HAVA-6437, 5 October 1960; there is no further informal
tion on this Carlos PRADO. However, the original source of the info
ation given in Attachment C of UFGA-4977 was a letter brought out
of PBRUMEN by AMSTRUT-1 about carly July 1962. Said letter contained
a $25 money order, issued at Station No. 9, New Orleans, on
16 March 1962, for Jorge MEDINA. Bringuicr and purchased by Maria
Teresa MEDINA. The envelope, addressed to Sra. Consuclo.C. de
RIVAS in Mexico City, bore the notation, "For Carlos PRADO,” and
contained a note, “This money order for $25 is for Carlos PRADO
from his mother," in addition to the moncy order. There is one

Carlos PRADQ in Mexico. He is studying engineering and is. the Br:
brother ofcfaystind pRApo Gi reia, an engineer 2s works close to [i

“Che” GUEVA land is of currgnt KUTUBE interest 7 Faustino PRADO |;
is married to Clara ARTINE, sister “of Josefina ARTIME, who is |! ~
a close friend of ANGLEN-9, and she is a of current; KUTUBE interest!
hes AMSTRUT-2, who could have given this letter to AMSTRUT-1 to |;
take out of PBRUMEN, was in Mexico City she called Carlos PRADO by
telephone at 249769 and told him that she was-a frienf# of his mother.
This PRADO family is a Jarge one, and includes anothef brother, |
Angel, who is in Spain,’ a sister who is a nun in Ita¥y, and another
brother who is a doctor in New York City. Additiona} data could
be secured on this yetly from AMSTRUT-2 if desired. Deoroube it
seems probable that ¢his money order may have been sp1d t in
by Jorge MEDINA and ‘purchased, sooner or later, by the Esenes ta of the
Carlos PRADO who ig currently a student in Mexico. copy of the
material carried ont by AMSTRUT-1 is being forwarded] herewith. It
will be noted shay a part of the attachment was disseminated as

UFG—1239, 13 Ju 1962,

re Qol— MWeepe. al} 20 -s3105s°
eee |
vat mnerous tovtibe Sreerr hs ne



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

b.°. It is further noted that SUWAVE fites show one
"Hongo" listed on Page 14 of Attachment C. to UFGA-4977 as captured
and sentenced to 30 yenrs in prison. This infcrmation cane. from
UFG-779, 12 January 1962, which was based on an AMNCUTLER-1 intercept
ofa report from the MRR "acting Internal Coordinator in PBRUMEN
to Hipolito LAZARO, ¢; emporarily in
PRPRIME, sent via the ? There was no
further identification wy

ec. It is noted that Reference F identifies Jorge
HAEDO as & former anti-Castrista who was tortured and doubled by.
the PBKUMEN Government; HAEDO appears to be the correct spelling.

da. "Cuca" or "Cuchi" MARTINEZ, who has held the position
of AMSPELL National Coordinator for Civil Resistance, 1s a personal
friend. of ANCOG-3 and. family. She is believed to have taken asylua
in the Mexican Embassy. SW Messnge 12 from ANCOG-3, dated._
8 Docember 1962 and received 12 December, reported that [QUANTUM-S1.
advised “Cuca! to hide or be cautious because MEDINA had~ turned o'
to boa G-2 ‘member. Tho message said that this was lcarned from
AMSPELL prisoners and that, during interrogation, they were asked
many questions: about "Cuca" and AMO0G-2. .

9. When the AMHINT-53 sccurity review mentioned in Reference A
is received, additional investigation us necessary will be made at
JSMWAVE,

| O1

END OF DISPATCH

FE S3q use raewous comon SECRET



“Ne

IGROFILMED
FER 4 1963

Doc. MICRO. SER

Cader Separate Cover Attachment to UFPGA-7383, 22 January 1963

DEN A in PBRUMEX.

creet Ht user D3

J

& JON 63
19-129


Mitesh ment fi.
| NOL SUM hg f
wveborce teas I, Seale ad ketae

Xiootencalt ess
Coyeccan
ae : Yo:2o0, DeFe
Pie tee (tor eurtod Pruino)
Sets nonay order for $25.00 ts for Corlos PRADO fron his nothors

Lox cozy of money order for $25.00 tor Jorge NIDDU Bringuier from Worta Teroz0

Ti :
wen nen een ee eee CL CL Oe
sesssisds ae
;
'
. °

HOT SUITADLE i

’
mkie
: Q6Iawes *
JY —1ay-a6h

leet #oLo UREA 7387 +



strat page etostngs/

te going %o ploos the communication obroad in Soft*s hands} no ona betters 7
ite nobd io that you emlain to us better how to make the contact fron hore over

thiss, that is, bow and where to eco SARADIA, the contact whitch you said you had vith”

bhe Soft Inows ‘Sila but doosn’t know Whore sho can soe Aine Rancnbor that soft is ct

elresdy being cracked because Eetobon's wife knovs hor end eskod cbout hr. ¥ 2 coing
{to try to have tha treasurer be @ fricnd of Sofi's vho know where tho money ise 0 45°.:
a tly trustvorthy boy called Alejandro.

T21 Dr. LALIGS thot I dont write to him shout the offatr bscouse it 19 castor’ :
for : to write to you, but that he an! thio boy should havo rolations, oad X vith
Cert ond with. yous

Ve give tho support to LAZAGA togothor with the Exceutivs, bocatizo Lt would be
inzocsisle to only one porsen, and for the case it vas loft in our hands, You soo that
Na oxceutive over there te fully answerable to us and thet vay ¢horo will bo no
problezse ea
Wa don't know onything ebout my nesosake. So far all tho contects havo failed.
Lot's 3.0 what. vo con clarify. °
Toll Tonos that tho neva I sont hin about™Dos ios wes through a contect vaich
Teds vith our brothorein-lav De "o 49 willing to work end hoz poople tn tis orci
end alco in tho coast.  bolfova that @ lot oan bo done up thors, Besides, S:to
1.£t ro a torrifte contact alco ot that const, when ve havo to! put ‘in gontact vith Del,
‘Fell Teaas to let no work also in that arce, which 4s mina ond of ny p-ople, -32 thot
12 ho gives authorization thst vo can send a quorrille band to work wich thi. cole.
C2 course, this quorrilla chosen by us to avoid their sending poople of the 4 ‘tows
end Rav? tics tate comend avoy fros.uo. You know how that ise ae
Nvits to our other brothor-in-lav in tho oubsssy and find out vhon ho lesv.a
d.csuse FE imow that ho fo alrzedy lonving but to cons back to ne imiodiatoly, t.tta” |
42 hs loaves, taxes a fast training, and concs backs Mave thon’ got much no> :
9 end nea to man eoabot with bayonats vhioh is very good ot night ond no oz» Lore

Ming about thate
You Eu.t orplain the thing a bit to Doto so thet he will gain onthustasn. Ig h> ° -:

S the thing 1a sorfous and hes roal cupport he will cone. Tas only thins *!
Ve7e, be moods support for his fonily. Explain everything to hin ond I thin:
will conse Ee caves tonorrow and I gove hin your phono. If ho noods money for is



to’ a2k you for it.

vito end for hinsclf give at to hin from aias, ¥
If thoy Would Lot asp: in Ouy proving I vould $ gucrritlos vit
the contects vaten I had bofore and have nov, ond vo 411 hot up for these
Po2le, that 19, wo vould stort a var in all the provinos, plains end ovorythinge
WIL, this lotta 1s going vith safe hands to Nical viiore 4 vill bo molled,
tetorrovs ‘co tho SeW. watoh X sont vill arrive later Af E-<as"& got At taxon with”
tits ony docauae I elrosdy gavo tt to havo At mailed: Let's ade Af vo oan got At dock
fa tha to hav: arrive eoone ie *
X vil2 write to Doba-and Xartha Kona cnother say at ‘eala, end X don't have
the dotails of your otters on hands
7 fegards to ell end you receive love from your brothers

‘s Xanolod



Notlesst, Guelcet Gnd Jose Antonio ADUZONTS, Military
© Restizs cad adopted tho fodloving agromontss z
EID. Thst in view of the present situation of our Bovonent andthe gcnerel fe
“situstion of tho eount=y, ve hive doatided to chaos the organization of the novencnt,
Vides vill cow be eraposed a9 follows: (A) cao Civilien National Goordinator, end
(2) O32 2 tary Notional © Coordinator. ar Devious § Secretariat’ ‘ena: éonoatnations
aro eazcieds a
7 IVa ‘eive full cutonony, with regard to Sractiontag, ve tho Civilian ond
Xn ititesy Coordinations. Tuas, eon vill function soparatoly.

: To give full suzz0rt gad recognition es GINZAAL DELDOATE in oxtle of :
Our rovccvat, to:Dre Jose Ignacio’ LAZAGA and to the exvoutive appointed by him vith 4
tho cuthorisation of the provious National Coordination. ss

é EELS Ao result of tho SDCOND sgrosmant rogerding eutoneny in the functioning
Of the National Coordinations, wo egroa to scoops the Miorarchy in tho eocnend of tho
fell Sscutive: Of our Nowonent in oxile, with the provision thot the orders originating
froa thia Exocutive will be coepliod WAth dn seoordanos vith ovr capabilitios and
teuing into consideration thot os ve are in the Nationsl Territory wo havo batter
tmovledg: of tho real aitustion viteh we oro undergoing.

Stensd dy Rigoborto CASAS end Jose Antonio ALUSNTE exclusively, os the rost
of Ca: ucsdors of the provious RATIONAL COONDIWATTION are in prison vith tho oxcoztion
of itr.’ S110, ox Coortinater of Civic Qosistance vho is in asylune

Jaf, TAcsdsrte CASAS. : Al 3009 Antonio AGRANONTS
SVELIAN NATICNAL COORDINATOR NILITAIY ‘RATIONAL COORDINATOR

a 7 ”


one

i
se
|
]

2g Mozsy Order 11-41,272,095
i MVASWE One wunopen Soncane
a ey ie
2 SL ae a 19 9 i
errr: rg MeL EL [2% 2] be
; DSLLARS ;

a
= SERED IS ree ey CMEWETIT CECT ial

MOEPET — V9 iF ALTERED
1D, SAME SON38 O82 MUTRATE .



7 | | ns: DB.

1
in ae His obs. hed Athos cA Cy fo
aaa ue BLP Ste. WTA Skee.
: Q a le MAU y aq. = ae
Roe avi ieeesi eg aa iualae ese comen sé “iA RA oN i
! ie 7)

7 I £7 1 IF br bid aad j





: Berit ere ad

4 hr ke Bend

ag

Ae = see At ae ey. hia ch

2 ae
Z a ca bh ihtin, Sue: Checg Be
sega a As ae flre or dealt ee i oe

agfbear La et Cathe vase foresee

fs Oe tucbeklr, 2. fk Jue ec cere te pool Coo

edickr rep pelol - Tk, 1 Ar ciucler Jun ig.

ee phe

(bare ealink tir 2a

: 2 Macdua A Le hie vs,
of ge Bip fb a fas ay ene a an ab dives
A AD 5, ye fe aalerigl a pedirtele.

as & Aafiin re aid AX op. Ko og

ke are Loe ental page

spbencae ce epulle ale, ae ii i

tn Ae

bate Ai

una we Pdi he fre tree, *
Geka v, se een apabed, Whitley, iraniie ae

Contr nunnatie as pot fs etn

foure 2 22th don As Lbs ceed sa
O bE a fin ft El ho Pale:
vi Lge: ke

are Cow cabs Par


BSk Leitber,

notonal Gs rh y FOSS ANTONIO AGRLICIIL, Coors?

20 pasvedis a eissuti> y Logar a les acuss

acl dD

2a ontoy:

soneda se

ONTO AGRAMGITS.

9 C5 eno 5

fa on cusnto a sy
inceioncs Civil 7 eS
a por sepczedoe

2280, 21 Dre ICSE Te.
20 2 ol nocbrada, ceca ls ou:
ses Ccordinset £5 weotenal.

ve pera en.el o:
*éudenos exsasdss
@ madida de muostzo:
Nua por esta? nos" Des

RAL cons

fiiwe la presente por. los saioren RISD:

cinionto coro BY) oe

sivenente, debids a. cneontoci.

SSISTENCIA CIVEOA, au8

velias ad datas eons: = race ox

Q 3
0S ae 22 vealigad de Is sisusss
HOP Que atravezanese Sierra sear

’

asst,

ENTS

ee

