‘104-40179-10153| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F.
ee

”

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN (0 CIA
Background Use Only
Pa .. ~ Do Not Reproduce

12 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR’ THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting with AMBANG/1

1. 1 saw AMBANG/1 on 1 and 2 February 1964 and later
called him by telephone in San Juan, Puerto Rico on § February.
The main items of interest from this mecting follow:

A. Loss of Cache - AMBANG/1 voluntarily raised
the subject of the Toss of the cache of material on the
island of Caja de los Muertos, The loss arose from a
failure to cache these mat@rials on an island south of
Cuba in the area of Camagucy Province. - The JURE
controlled ship, the M/V VENUS, sailed from Puerto Limon
during the month of January with the intent, of caching
these materials, including some 200 lbs. of the C-4
which had been made available to A/1. On resching the
cache area the ship was surveilled by a small, commercial-
type aircraft, resulting in a decision on. the part of
the VENUS Captain to proceed to Puerto-Rico rather than
risk the Joss of the materials to the Cubans. A/1
stated that he interviewed each member of the crew
separately and each told essentially the same story.
Upon arriving in the area of Ponce, Puerto Rico, a cache
was made on the island previously mentioned with the
intent of retrieving the materials in about three days
after tho ship was refueled and certain repair work
done. The location of the cache on Caja de los Mucrtos,
which is normally inhabited only by turtles, but
unfortunatoly, a Pucrto Rican searching for turtle eggs
spotted the disturbed sand covering the cache, and
eventually the cache, which he reported to Puerto Rican
authorities. According to A/1 the materials recovered
are belicoved to be in San Juan, Puerto Rico, now in the
hands of the Puerto Rican police. A/l has talked to
Governor Munoz Marin's bright, young, ‘right-hand man,
Polanco ABREU, Speaker of the House, who will do what he
Ee can to return tho materials to A/1. It is A/1's opinion
that ho stands a 50/50 chance of retrieving the materials.
It is A/1's. opinion that the JURE had not been implicated
in the cache and that the crow of the VENUS have kept

appropriately silent. -

SECRET



—s

B. JURE Purchase of One Ton of Pentolite = A/1
informed me That the JURE had purchaned a-ton of Pento)ite,
a high explosive, which is not as desirable for use
C-3 or C-4; but nevertheless, a ood material for them.
My first reaction was to ask where A/1 had this material.
I reconsidered this request, stating that I hoped it was
well hiddon, A/1 assured mo thee it was. I gathered
from my conversation with A/1 that this material was
not in place in Costa Rica,

In view of WAVE's report via ANTAUP/2, specifically
in WAVE 1463 (IN 11718), Para, 4, "Alanis said large
sum money has been spent in purchase modern C-3
explosives and some C-4 which was in CISNEROS" home
there subsequent from Costa Rica," I discussed this
matter of explosives with COS, WAVE. This discussion
was predicated actually on my telephonic discussions
on this same subject with C/SAS. On the basis of
this background, on 5 February 1964, I called A/1 in
San Juan, Puerto Rico. Based on a carefully prepared
line which Shackley and I had agreed on, I told A/l
that he had better move all such material immediately
out of the United States, including Puerto Rico. In
speaking of Puerto Rico, I advised A/1 that despite. .
his influential friends, he was bound to get into
trouble if he did not get out of that area and move :
his operations to Costa Rica without further delay,

I also warned A/1 that the setting up of communications,
that is, a radio station in Miami, would almost
certainly get him into trouble with United States
authorities and result in the confiscation of his

* equipment. 4/1 was obviously unsottlod by my
statements and asked me if I could not intervene
with appropriate authorities for timo to move the
materials. I told him that I could not so Antervene
48 each arm of the Government had its role to play
and its duties to fulfill and these could: not. be
influenced. A/1 stated that he would move as fast”
as humanly possible to take the materials out.

C. JURE Plans ~ According to AMBANG/1, ho plans
the infiltration of two teams into Cuba within the next
six weeks. The first team, of from two to four individuals,, eee
was projected within the next two weeks as of this date.
This team is to infiltrate in Las Villas Province and
will head for the area of the city of Santa Clara. The
second team, upproximately four weeks lator, will be
infiltrated into Oriente Province, Each team will carry
® supply of weapons and high explosives and communications



ob

SSA
-3-

equipment. They will also carry tho first 20 of 60°
radio receivers and one transuitter, It is intended
that the remaining 40 receivers and one additional
transmitter will be infiltrated later. The equipment
is to be used in sabotage ops in Oriente, Las Villas,
and eventually HavamProvinces, According to A/1, the
first two teams infiltrated will not be met by JURE
personnel on the inside of Cuba; but will proceed on
their own to establish their contacts once inside.

D. JURE Strength Inside Cuba ~ I asked A/1 if it
were true that four meubers 0. ie executive council of
the JURE were actually inside Cuba. He stated that of
the nine principal officers of the JURE, four are inside
Cuba and five are outside. It should be noted here that
we have information to the effect that the executive
council of the JURE is.so divided and located. A/l
indicated to me that the JURE has made contact with

(Faustino PEREZ) who is tgoureeah tn aut of the OF

Institute of Hydralic Resources|, In addition A/1

stated that he has likewise le contact with his former
fsub-secretary of Public Wor an individual whom he

fid not identify; but who, according to him, still maintains
en important positio! n the Cuban government. fi

advised me that FaustYfio PEREZ}had indicated his

continuing sympathy and apparent willingness to participate
in @ program of resistance to Castro. A/1 informed me

of these developments inside Cuba in a matter of fact way.

EB. The ELC Joins the JURE - A/l gave me a copy of
the ELC statement joining the JURE, The ELC, according
to A/l1, is now dissolved and becomes a part of the JURE.
This accord, reached on the 17th of January 1964, brings
into the JURE the best former rebel army officers in
exile and should give the JURE a military background
and support second to none in the exile community. A/1
advised me that the ELC did not bring any great sum of
money into the JURE, but it did bring a certain number

of arms and equipment.

¥. A New Drive for Funds - A/1 gave me a bond,
number 3 7 whic S presently being used in a campaign
to raiso additional funds by the JURE. For $92 tho
donor receives one of these bonds with the understanding
that the JURE will purchase a rifle and ammunition to bo
used in the fight for the liberation of Cuba.. A/1l stated
that this campaign has been inordinately successful and
that thoy are expecting to raise a sum between $40,000

and eis 000.



SigneT

-4e

G. Other ‘pre arations Being Made by the JURE - A/1
showed me & chart which was in essence a work schedule,
which 18 & guide Lim ior the preparation of their
communication facilitics to be used between Latin America,
Puerto Rico, and the U.S.A, This chart also included

the development and preparation of all the electrical
gear to be infiltrated into Cuba. The chart was an
orderly presentation of the work to be done, the tine

in which to do it, the cost involved, the equipment
needed, and man hours required to finish the job on

time, The time span of the chart covered December 1963
through March 1964, causing me to believe that, if it
were sGhered to, the JURE should be in reasonably good
shape so far as its electrical explosive plans in general

sre concerned,

‘+ H. AMBANG/1's Considering Aerial Re-Supply - A/1

had many estions at this lime regarding the feasibility
of eventually using an aircraft to re-supply his efforts
in Cuba. He wondered about radar effects and potential

on low flying aircraft. I mentioned to him that there
were various fine commercial type aircraft which had
unusual potential for clandestine operatiors, but that

I knew of none that had the capacity for a round-trip
from points as far away as Puorto Rica and Venezuela

to Cuba. A/} advised me that he had the pilots necessary -
to engage in such missions and that he was most interested
in considering this capability; not only because of the
purpose it could serve in re-supply, but also in the
psychological effect that such operational independence
would give their movemont,

I. AAI Asks. for Whatever Guidance is Possible on
ntorest

Cuban Radar ndicated a great intore:

in receiving ay Information we can make available
regarding radar capability along the Cuban coasts. I.
advised him that I would attempt to provide this information
but that I could not be sure that we knew the location

of every radar site available on the Cuban coasts,

J. Documentation for A/l's Return to Cuba - I took
with me fo s, meeting four documents prepared by TSD
for A/1 in order that he might sign these before returning
them for TSD authentication and aging. A/1 was most
Pleased with this material and agreed to furnish additional
photographs in differont poses and clothing in order
that final documentation bo made.

K. Reply to Questions Raised Regarding High Explosives
T detailed

and Electrical Fquipment ~ I revicwed with
Teplies by 0 quéstIons raised by A/l ceca res th



characteristics of Thermite, Thermate, grenades, as well

as the problems involved in the use of electrical firing ‘
devices, A/1 has an obviously good grasp of redio .

devices, and of the characteristics of explosives; but
at the same time it in obvious that he depends ypon more !
technically compotent personne] for working with these
materials. He stated that he has engineers in the JURE
who have a familiurity with radio and explosive materjals.

L. A/1's Continued Negotiation with the Second
Front of the Escambray = state t while remains
In contact Sith EToy 6 ‘Oy GUTIERREZ Menoyo, he has not as \
yet reached the point in his negotiations which will :
bring that group into the JURE. A/1 indicated his
opinion that within approximately six weeks he will have |
worked out a program perhaps bringing this groups into H
the JURE. - ;

2. Comments - Insofar as the activities of the JURE
in U.S. territory are concerned, I believe it is important :
to point out certain facts,

A, Whereas various AMTAUP/2 reports have indicated
various activities and statements on the part of ‘the JURE
representative in Miami, Rogelio CISNEROS, against this .
Agency, there has not beon any overt proof of these
activities. Nor has there been any overt proof of a
propaganda drive, black letters of any sort, adverse
radio propaganda, or evon @ program based on a person=
to-person basis, We should take note of the fact that
CISNEROS's talking hax boen restricted to his own little
coterie of clandestino cronies. I discussed the matter _
of ANTAUP/2's reporting at great length with Tony Sforza
and Warren Frank, 1 indicated an interest in proof
that CISNEROS is' behind a donigration program against the
Agency telling them that wo would not tolerate such a
program, if in fact, wo could prove its existence. I
specifically pointed out tho caso recently reported of
the choice of ono Dionisio SUAREZ Esquivel, who reportedly
has been chosen to go to Latin America and carry out a
program of denigration of the Agency in universities, as
@ case which we could and should follow in order to
satisfy ourselves that the JURE is working against us.

B. The AMOTS and tho JURE - I satisfied myself in
talking to Tony Sforza that the AMOTS in general are #
politically opposed to tho JURE and that the reporting
of this group, to which AKTAUP/2 belongs, must be :
considered in light of its projudices and lack of
objectivity insofar as tho JURE is concerned,

ee fe
Kista os,



C. The Position of Rogclio CISNEROS - Despite
y be the natire or ANTAUP/72"s reporting, and we

what
must admit that he appears to report pretty much what

he hears, the activities of Rogelio CISNEROS in Miami will
sooner or later, unless my warning to AMBANG/] has some
effect, involve the JURE with U.S. authorities, This
development is something that we should expect and the
time may be hero when it becomes necessary to tell
AMBANG/1 that CISNEROS had better leave the U.S.A.

3. Financial Matters - AMBANG/1 received a total of
35 thousand dollars. Ten thousand of this sum is understood
to be for the assistance of those clements not aligné
JURE but with a capability to take action against CASTRO.
While AMBANG/1 specifically mentioned Eloy GUTIERREZ Menoyo
in this context, I advised him to use the money where it
would do the most good in getting the fight going inside
Cuba. AMBANG/1 submitted 35 thousand worth of bonds as
receipt and also signed ten (one thousand dollar) bonds he
had not signed during the last meeting.

RA Rodrigdez 7
SAS/SO ee

i Ha
Ble, Wateney

qiaSs
Ste Wf O Jewe,



Sample fond
Attachment to Meav for the Record
dated 12 Fed 64

JUNTA
REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA

Gortificado Ny a 3590

| =
‘Hemos recibido de

la cantidad de $92.00 (Noventa y
fa guerra contra la tirania comuniste.

wyg@o. *
oe

FONDO INSURRECTION EXCLUSIVO Py
CHAERE 19 A SRO Ie,

POR UNA CUBA CUBANA

so someones?
ee 2

ts
EQUIPOS INDIVIDUALES DE COMBATE — ECALDADO DE DI.

