'104-10143-10246)
.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

EADET
SECREI . ( 5 January 196)
a0

(

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
FROM 1 Lawrence F, Barker :

SUBJECT : Meeting with LITAMIL-9; 27 Deceaber 1963

1, A mesting with (L-9/was held 4n B's car fron 2000 until. 2140 hours
21 December,

— D, mi f7y
2. LITAHIL-9) reported ay thie ‘iring’ of:
and this was mado the subject oftwu’ tables~to Headquant :
importance in the AMBOD onaration. (See EXT 7613 and ME) 7
Pa! ETSI iL4
30, Le9was asked for fmrtit eeiaaliga hein !Duran's statenents re- | P-7f
garding the visit of Lee Harvey Oswald to Sie Cubairt: te in Septenbder,
He had no further information to offer about this but reported~that Silvia -
had not returned to work at the Consvlats since her release fron arreat the
second tine, ‘This was reported to HOS, (See MEXT 7615)

a*PROENZA Proenza £31 bat

era in view of her

~———
~~. tte_B apologized: for tit haviag been &blé to find in the States sone
‘oil paints vhich L-9 needs. Six different art supply dealers in Arizona and
California vere tried without results, ‘The paints will be requested fron
QS, i" - 7

5» L~9)reported cn the following additicaal topice: oy

a, L-9/had received as of that date only one Christuas/ilew ‘ears
greeting card fron a Mexican Governnent official, In past years he received.
Marge numbers of these cards. The one cane from the Mexican Sub-Director of
Cultural Relations. L-9 ascribes this to the resentment caused among Mexican.

officialden by the strong note received fron Raul ROA, Cuban FOMIN, in regard
to the detention of Silvia Duran, Apparently word had besn passed to Mexican
officials that they were to give the Cubans the cold shoulder,

de Roldolfo REYES, a Mexican citizen who works in Cuba for the Cuban

& Teatro Folklorico, was recently in tom, He eaid that Fidel CASTRO had recently

vevarked that Cuba should use its theatrical group to earn dollars abroad, REYES

zaid that a HM. PLANCHON and six other Parisian expresarios connected with the;
Teatro de Jas Naciones in Paris would be travelling to Cuba in the near futers ",
to nee what could be done about putting the Cuban show on the road. By

ce The woll-lmow Mexican cartoonist RIUS (true name Eduardo DE; RIO) ;
who was acheduled to be a guest of the Cuban goverazeat at the Anniversary
celebration om 2 Jan in Havana, did not get a Cuban vioa, A cable cana into
to Fnbassy advising of this and saying that RIUS would be notified directly by
a separate letter of the reasons for this refusal, Since RIUS is an ‘outstanding ~
propagandist for the Communist cause, £-9/ could only conjecture that this
development was related to the) ROMYohe\P Mp andythenGuban Governnent!a desire
to avoid antazonizing the Mocs st overment further, Another cartoonist, who
uses a name something like (7) also got-the Yano titatment, Z
ti Syl Fedelitea sone ae
f gifts frox somddne
fine
woran Xo
©, An Australian newspapefem named Julian or Jullian/ ROBERTSON was
in tom on 23 Decenber, staying at Room oh of the Gran Hotel Isabel, Isabel La
Catolica # 63, She was trying to get a visa to vioit Cuba but was vasuecessiat

FORE -
s RCE ee

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Pe

aun!
a, ib |Enbag!
Aneide the Czech Enbassy at Chris sae

