# 104-10171-10012

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10171-10012

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

Chict, Task Force d

QLASUTICATION

S-E-C-R-E-T

ATar

3

FROCESSINO

'ACTAM

"make: +00 10081i16

Chief uf Station, JANAVE

sari Operational/GYROSE KUCAGE/ANTINT/KUTUBE

Debriefing of ANHINT Safehousc Ouner

RETURN TO CIA

Action:

Ref

Fil and files

HAVE 3911

Background Use Ohly

Do Not Reproduce

De: dr birofinig

0t 1. FOn 24 May 1962, At about 1230 hours local, JUNAVE debriered

for gengral PW aspect and corfirmation of the

Independent infiltration opcration ed ANHINT-53 land ALHINT-40 by the

Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) on 20 May 1962.

antanas, Suase was eliza December as la severanoi reynse

Matanzas: Province.

In Miani, he 1s

temporarity residing a

plan to return to cuba during the presentorosimo.

(LEONis representative of the middle-class, suall town Cuban

and cro-PEPmo era polter interest and tans proconse vrolve

and ITO-PiPRIdE. He was mayor.

1954-t0.1959, Д

period during whitch the BATISTA regime both

flourished

and declined, although subject does not profess to be "Batistiano".

He probnbly contributed very little to the opposition of BATISTA and

by the same token contributed very little to the opposition of CASTRO.

He is currently owner of the small dwelling at the

above address and

loaned the shelter and facilities to AUlINT personnel but without

RECLIOCGFILD

Distribution:

RESTRICTED TO.SAS/mEBe-rRir

3 - C/TFW W

JUN 1 1 1952

1041240722099-132-16/3

408+63-475/58

Told: 7

1505)

ES C

S-E-C-R-E-T

19-134-263

120

DATE FRO

ONIA DESAAPOHLD

30 Ma: 1962

JuM : 1552

OISPATI SMIUR ANO NUDESIR

UFGA -4216

19-120-19/3

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

._DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

UFGA - 1210

participating in their operations...Tuls was done more for reasons

of family ties and simpathetir attitude townd student activitles that

18 traditional 18 cuba.

Needless to bny, however, this lé & modest:

declarntion on his part since she type of ald he had been lending with

out rescruntion is purishable by death or imprisonment for all or

any members of his immodiate fanily.

Subject related the erents of 20 May In his small beach

resort village as follows:

"At nbout 10:00 P.M. on Sunday, 20 May, he and his family had

returned to their house, which is located about three blocks fron the

Parque Infantil ISIT here the cownfolk were dancing and celebrating

this-trad1tlonal date..

Shortly after arriving, they heard gunfire

in the genral direction of the beach.

This was described as mixed

nutomatic fire and single shots.

"There was much shouting and confusion

the streets of the town near the park, and

enture out and learn the source of the disturbance hen AMHINT ador

appeared in the doorway, dripping wet and panting. Behind him,

AMHINT-40. "

"After recognition and exchango of explanations,

Junpacked onc

I the familyosuitcases for dry Clothing and gent the two boy

heir bathroonito change and readin concealed until the commotion die

down.... The

family were departing Cuba and had their home prepared

for closure and processing with local militia post as required bert

r'evolutionary decree.

After the two ANHINTswere settled,

his house and went out to send the pre-arranged coded cable to slamt

confirming their safe nirival.

They slept in his house that night and

departed early Monday morning for Havana."

"Although the

¡janily has a reputation for political indifferchce

precautions were made for travel In which the two-man team traveled

halt way to havana in unother venicle and changed to the

the reminder of the trip and installation 1a a Havana salenous,Por

"Prior to departure Varadero, however,

Militia Post to turn over the teys to his house and process his de

parture.

among

the officers.

From these conversations, It was apparent that

the Militia patrol. encountering the beach operation reported the clash

as "escapces": that two or mors were killed and the bodies taken with

the other escapees: that there vere no militla casaulties: that there

was no inkling that an infiltration operation had taken place prior

to the patrol encounter."

"When queried as to militia casualties since the DRE had reported

that at lenst too had been

"dropped" on the beach, subject comnented

one does not shoot a militiaman down that easy.

Of were just dropping to the ground at the slightest sign of action'.

was certain that if as much as one wan had been scratched the

whole town would have known about it by worning."

was very vague and lacked details concerning his knowledge

of propaganda in Cuba. He recalled that the radio program with Juan

AMADOR Rodriguez on lorgware ar midday was popular and heard by many

of the townfolk.

He remarked that they listen to a 5:00 All and 12:00

noon shortwave program coming from key lest, and finally, that the

Voice of America shortwave brordcasts were very effective in his

region. He never tuned in to Radio Las Americas and instantly associated

it with the former "Radio

Swan" repeating the usual hearsay that "it

was discredited".

11530

N=.0.:04.88

S-E-C-R-E-T

19-184-2613

140770-10

PAGE NO

2

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

UFGA -4216

Although subjert was abriously nut a sund

sourse for militory

Ob or other intelligence peservations, he did provide sore fragmentary

information on his arpa.

He described a place known as loras finns.."

located between Birdinas and Gillscu 110 miles Suuth) pointed vut on

the map to be

about 22509-51188.

There Is a Militin Post there with

about 500 land 600 starloned there for short periods.. He obseried some

tank movement, about six to eight tanks trarcling in and out of this

aron at a time, but could not describe them as to type or size. He'

described the militia personnel in this region as a "Very low typo"

of cuban which das disgusting so the local country people and there

was continuous friction..

He consented that it uns just such camps or

pust as this that turned the general population into oppositionists.

About 17 or 18 day, subject observed a lnrge freighter unload.

1ng cargo in Matanzas harbor.

The local people described it as Russian

and subject could not confirm or deny this.

The silpment tas large,

and in various size crates that were trucked out of the dock

area in large convoys.

Near a village known as Palmillas (2238N-8015#') about 10 miles

Southeast of Colon,, Province

of Matanzas, sub.fcct repoits that there.

nie: two guerrilla bands

of twelle to twenty men each.

During 15 to 17

these bands attaoted farms orcupled

by militia, killing one

militiaman and running the other's off the farm. They burned the house,

destrojed the farm equiprent.

Again on the 18th of was, one of these bands attacked another

militia post and killed one militia.

This particular incident came from

the doctor who treated the militlaman prior ils death and uho is a

personal friend of

Subject concluded the interview with some of his opinions

and observations

concerning the state of public morale in Cuba

He pointed out that much of

the population,

"better people" today.

the country, understood the United states

position on Cuba.

implication being

the reason for United

States fallure to take direct

action or intervention

in Cuba.)

He said the peuple understand that

CASTRO is their own doing and that the United States cannot be held

responsible for his presence.

He described the greater part of the

populace as sick and tired,

undernourished, disgusted with blatant

propnganda lies, terrorized by

repression but ultimately disposed to

resist at all costs.

That 11 arms were generally available among the

especially rifles and ammunition for them,

CASTRO would have

been overthrown by now, althout a bit of outside help.

That the farmers

and some city folk,.

in desperation, leave their homes to join the

guerrilla bands with no hope for supply and many times turned down by

guerrilla leaders who cannot supply

their own band as it is.

departed with the reminder that the "Cubans traditionally prefer to

live good or not live at all."

END OF DISPATCH

19-124-ü1/3

PAGE NEO

10000

10s 530

use art.

Si J

FAiRFATION

S-E-C-R-E-T

3

---

