# 104-10087-10126

## Page 1

inAn

1104-10087-1012

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Me: +499341

EYES ONLY

(

XAA

17 Mar C4

XAAZ-173641

W9UW71097

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

1 Do Not reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/R&A

SUBJECT:

i Count Regudineging OSWALD was Interviewed

by CIA Employees

ebruary 1964 the Northern Virginia Sun

ab a) alleging -- among other things --

Departmep

trecords show that OSWALD had severe

meetinge with

the CIA representative in the US embassy in Mosgow During this

period, the assassin was seeking to renounce his atizenship,

State Department cable, No. 234, dated November 2, 1959,

that OSWALD was interviewed by the CIA and other embassy officials."

2. This allegation is absolutely unfounded as the following facts

bear out:

609-786

Document Number .

JUN 1976

for FOIA Review ori

201-25924

SITE

17. Mar 6t

The article cites a State Department "cable"

No. 234, dated 2 November 1959. Such "cable" probably

does not exist; however, the State Department despatch,

No. 234, dated 2 November 1959, from the US Embassy

in Moscow is no doubt the one which the article intended

to cite

That despatch carried the security classification

"Confidential". (See tab b).

b. Thât despatch contains no statement or inferènce

that Richardy. Snyder, the Second Secretaxy of the US

Embassy. in Moscow, who talked with OSWALD on 31

October 1959, has CIA connection. Snyder'o name is the

ime of a person mentioned who might have spoken

SWALD.

The only other US official whose bame

smentioned in that State Department despatch was

Edward L. Freers who signed the despatc

d'Affairs, ad interim.

RESTACTED TO CIR+A

GROUP 1

Excluded trom automate

downgrading and

declassitication

EYES ONLY SEGRET

63 0024

17-MAR-IPEY

201-289248

000214'7

PAGE

14 08-1

COPY NO.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

EVES ONLY

Brief histary of Agency

c. Richard Bondo 08083009 mort i Subj.

Passaic, N.J.) applied for employment with CIA in

June 1949 and submitted a complete PHS form at that

ime. He entered on duty with CIA on 8 November 194.

ia a GS-9 ($4600.00 per annum). According to his

Personnel file (see tab c) he was assigned to OPC anc

was slated to serve in Tokyo](the file contains norentry

showing that he actually served in Tokyd). He did,s

however, serve in Heidelberg, beginning in March 1950.

While in Germany he apparently resigned effective.

26 September 1950 in order to assume a position with

HICOG. There are no further entries i

his Personnel

file. The SR Division, however, has

unofficial file

on him (see tab d).

That file shows that Nelson "BRICKHAM,

an SR Division staff employee, was in contact with SNYDER

for about one year (1956-1957). BRICKHAM used SNYDER

as a spotter at Harvard where SNYDER was studying Russian

and had access to other students who might be going to the

USSR. There is no record of POA, OA or CSA action in that

connection.

In March 1959 (probably just before SNYDER's

departure for Moscow), State requested that he be given two

weeks of the OBS Course (probably ORR's training in Soviet

Order of Battle).

do Edward I Freer us never an employee of CIA.

(201-175339) Brief history of Agency

Subj:

He has been an employee of the Department of State since

1941 and has served in various countries. In 1952, while a

"'Peripheral Officer" with the State Department in Rome,

OPC requested "liaison clearance" on him; the clearance

was granted in April 1952. The interest was dropped in

955 and the clearance was cancelled. From September

to November 1956, 1O Division officials were in official

contact with him because of his position at the Department

of state.

that purpose IO requested and received

liaigon clearnace from the Office of Security. In addition,

ofSecurity file contains the following record of

interest and clearance action concerning FREERS:

April 1957

SE/ PP

April 1958

OSI

August 1958

August 1959

C/PP/LO

C/DP/1O

January 1962

EYES ONLY

-2-

SECKET

GROUP 1

Excluded from satomallo

Canng and

declassification

0002118

Z/BR

15

PAGE

COFY NO.

of. 1!

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

EYES ONLY

3..

The original article containing the subject allegation was

written by Robert S. ALLEN and Paul SCOTT. ALLEN is a former

associate of Drew PEARSON's.

The article has been replayed in

various publications which carry the ALLEN-SCOTT articles.

Many

of the replays appear to have deleted the citation of the State Depart-

ment "cable" Among the publications carrying the allegation in its

entirety is the current issue of Human Events (see tab e) which is

published in Washington, D.C. The publisher is one James L. WICK

on whom the FBl bas furnished adverse information. The founder of

that publication was FranK C. HANIGHEN. According to the FBI fapesson

it the saad leno gember of the "Intelligence Committee" of the CP USA

4.

ALLEN's and SCOTT's attacks on CIA are well-known and

have been persistent. In December 1961 Col. Grogan wrote

a memorandum

to the DCI concerning both of them. In May 1962, C/ CY

ReA wrote a

memorandum to the Office of Security and attached

items

concerning these two men (see tab f).

A surface an

sis of the various

articles written by this duo shows that they have

n sharpshooting at

Mr. Dulles whenever the opportunity has presented itse

The recent

article shows that they are still at it: in connection with

1r. Dulles'

service on the Warren Commission, they accuse him of displaying

"... a militant protectiveness regarding the GIA". The Office of Security

has furnished a copy of a detailed biographic account of ALLEN and a

copy.

as la portion ofy an investigative report on SCOTT (see tab g).

Thest

papers

contain no derogatory information.

17 March

Hartman

#being checked Festher.

Original - Mx. Rocca w/atts

1 - C/CI/SIG w/o/atts

1 - Security w/o/atts

02/2200

3. Frank. C. PANICHEN - Mr. Papian was asked on an urgent baste

whethor the individual of this name described in a Bureau report

dated 7/4/44, subjoct,

telligence Cormittee

"Illy Turner Davins", a nember of the In-

of the CPUSA, could be identical with the

founder of the Fuman Events magazine. MI. Papich was able toes-

tabllah that there were allegations of Commmist connections concern-

ing the founder of the meazine.

CI/R&A - Hartman

AnD Min

declassilicalion

3299248

231-28721%

0002119

PAGE

16

COPY

NO.

---

