# 104-10256-10087

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10256-10087

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO

- UNITED STATES

VERNMENT

Memorandum

→ chief, OP/RD

l.....

DATE: 4 March 1968

FROM : L. L. Curran

SUBJECT: BAKER, Bruce Arman

n 7 repruary, this gentleman telephonea my office.

His address is:

→ Face Arman BAKER

1379 President Drive,

E

Blaine Village, Minnesota

Mr. Baker stated that he has been in contact with a Mr. MITCHELL

WERBaLL, III of Powder Springs, Georgia.

Mr. Baker says that Mr. Werbell is in the business of manufacturing

weapons and delivering them by air throughout the world. Mr. Baker

understands that Mr. Werbell does this for the Central Intelligence

Agency.

Mr. Baker says that Mr. Werbell is a supposedly reputable man.

Baker understands, from Werbell, that Baker will have to get a

CIA security clearance to fly for werbell.

Mr. Baker has served in the

military.

He has had some paramilitary

training.

"freefall"

He belongs in a "jump club" and now participates in

i etc:

He has a Morse Code proficiency and a Radio

License Second Class. He has Spanish language proficiency and would

be willing to collect for us.

This man persists on pursuing me re this CIA/Werbell relationship.

I tell him I don't know a thing about it. It seems he has a smuggling

record when he was 17 and he's afraid this may keep him from getting

this Werbell "CIA" clearance.

(I. I. Curran)

ILC : sb

Bake Me i it le in

Contact da

re this deali

not with 1.

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

CONFIDENTIAL

---

