[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

‘"404-10172-10202

=. atch ‘
fee Lo mcrorn,
TOFU MED cA
‘ : HOWL tg caeties Orly
} ackgroue ed
i Bee MCHC. get Bake ot BORE auc
tt

_ JH ~ 175 #P

19 October 1964

INFORMATION REPORT

SUBJECT : Ssentor Lieutenant Anatoliy Mikhaylovich
GOLITSYN (201-99788)

SOURCE : GB kisau : j
Dor : 1955

1. When asked if he knew GOLITSYN in the Soviet Emigra-
tion Direction of the State Security Residency in Vienna, ag
of February 1954, Source said that he did not know him. How~
ever, in August 1955 Source recognized the name of Anatoliy
M. GOLITSYN as that of a KGB officer who was working in the
Office of the High Commissioner of Austria, in Vienna,

2,___In May 1955, Source identified the attached photo-
graph #361 as that of a. counter-intelligence (state security|
officer, but he did not know his name.

Comment:

3. DERYABIN identified the photograph referred to in
paragraph 2 above as that of Senior Licutenant Anatoliy
Uikhaylovich GOLITSYN. GOLITSYN's wife is the person next to
him. The other person in the photograph is the wife of Senior
Lieutenant Yevgeniy Petrovich IVANOV (201-134369), who was in
the State Security Residency in Vienna,

4, Anatoliy Mikhaylovich GOLITSYN (201-99788) defected
to the West from Finland in December 1961.

Distribution:
Orig ~ 201-99788
123 Gite-isers
1 ~ SR/CI/G/Chrono

seete [| bee
rane afer

3 a
DE gers v tes? eon

py


MICROFILMED
NOV13 Iy0q

POS micrc. ar!

ENT TO JH ~ 175

PHOTOGRAPH...

ATTACHM!

Pan
cht Th 01S

oe etree gm ins

H
i
i
i

@

20/3 997865 j



ea



|
|

cian
5 Mai 1955
LG £26

eis vais pia
if r sen
Farag pei iaiainturs a2 han \s

| gy oben ae wees

6 22. i
i

t

eee te H
ee apie
lL
4 etCary are nos H
i

i

:

!

H

HUH
eee
