[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

/404-40220-10028)

were ee
sey My

OUT Ol NG

° : f vr

125000
wee piste

ame MER

ve
on LOL

PCH APSUE/GEHERAL

A Sgt F4
Wo: pike ft ols he.

: : Sires, nerfs,

TOs FEDERAL BURCAU OF INVEETIGATION/ZATTAS ReK.

go ana

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION.Y

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELL NCE SOUPTZS AUD METHODS

INVOLVED - NOT RELEASABLE T9 FOREIGN NATISNALS ¥

CIR-3Lb/03b05-27 ¥

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATION INTO THE DEATH CF ORLANDO LETELIERS INFORMA~

TION ON THE ORGANIZATION OF CORU ¥

* REFERENCE: = FIRCIE 312/03290- -274 7 bbthbalas 3977 ¥
3}. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION PERTAINS TO IKYIVIBUALS MENTIONED

IN REFERENCE. THIS INFORMATION IS BEING Rade AVAILABLE TO ASSISTANT

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY EUGENE ne PROPPER.V ae “~) ai

"2. THIS AGENCY HAS NO INFORMATION OX ROBERTO elon AN
ARGENTINE NATIONAL UHO WAS IDENTIFIED AS A FORMER EMPLOYEE OF THE

GULF AND WESTERN CORPORATION AT THE FALCONESRIDGE PROJECT. DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC {SIC} AND WHO IS CURRENTLY EMPLOVED BY “EL FOSARIO” MINE.

{HEADQUARTERS COMMENT! IN DECEMBER 197%b THE SAME SOURCE WHO PRO-

VIDED Soe 2 3 b OF REFERENCE Penney THAT EULALTO FRANCISCO
PRANK distro Pad AND ROLANDO éter0 encnehpers TRAVELLED AT LEAST
ee tN?

(iret
ela
wt

! Vee

cares | Yay 2 2 wre ”
ons! ol) tyr 74s he 4e
unr rr dene argtl

ett



Tuice

i,
SUAN ARMAND MONTES» SOTO. THE OWNER OF "LA FRANCESA™ BAKERY {PASTRY
. cape
¢ SHOOP} AND A CUSAN EXILE, IS KNOWN TO BE CLOSE TO ORLANDO BOSCH

TO LA-RO!
te
H

GULF AND WES

on

wo 1G th
ro re HSocs A woe DISREM BY:
Drier PER

hha TO SEE ALVARO CARTAS

Rh

jot

Dive
CUBAN BORN PRESIDENT OF

AMERICAS, TO SEEK ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE.}

COMMENTS

Rg
CABTA NOU HAS A TOP JOB WITH GULF AND

BESTERN Th GORAL GABLES, FLORIDA.DY

: ie
3. RUBEN SOTO IS PROSASLY IDENTICAL WITH THE SOTO PREVIOUSLY

| AVILA AND FRANK CASTROWY i
A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY REPORTED IN LATE 14976

IDENTIFIED TO YOU AS GONE OF THE BEST FRIENDS UF U.S. ARNY MAJOR

THAT HE VAS TOLD BY A CUBAN EXILE IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC THAT A

MONEY FOR CUBAN RIGHTIST ACTIVITIES.
. ae ee :
ONE RUBEN SOTO HAYET. BHO WAS BORN IN ISLA DE PINOS. CUBAy

DELEGATION OF LOCAL CUBANS, AMONG THEM RUBEN 'SCTO. WAS SOLICITING

OK @1 SEPTEMBER 1937. WAS A HENBER OF BRIGADE 250 AND WAS A CAN-

DIDATE TO RECEIVE PARAMILITARY TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY iN EARLY

THERE HAS BEEN NO AGENCY CONTACT WITH SCTBO HAYET SINCE THEN.Y
IN 3963 ONE ruacn! sero “slvieT, POSSI@LY IDENTICAL WITH: RUBEN”

2462.

Bata:
ons:
; wnt:
ot:

stanton commen

i
i
i
! SECRET
i

VRE >

whens we

bo pestthetemtons “

erence

= ee mo eee

g2 IMPDET.
ct br; 205499
mw es



OUIGUING MiSsatel
sy

cow mo rie Serene) Domes pisses By:
. OD wm
D csronre O89

O wm ft
SOTO HEYET, WAS DESCRISED AS A FORMER 2S0> BRIGADE NEMBER WHO

LAS £5 EXECUTIVE MENGER OF THE MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOYCRY :

{OPRE-Y
: 4 IN DECENBER 1476 THE SOURCE OF PARAGRAFHS 2 - b& OF

REFERENCE REPORTED THAT If) JULY OR AUGUST L976. DURING A MELTING OF
A GROUF OF CUBAN EXILES AT THE PIZZA RESTAURANT IN THE DOMINICAN

RESUZLIC, ARMANDO CapaLieros. OWNER OF THE RESTAURAHT, SPOKE GFENLY
ABOUT PLANS TO ASSASSINATE "UN GRAN FUNCIONARIO AMERICANO” I COSTA

RICh- HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: PLEASE SEE CIOL-O44S-75. 23 DECEMBER

19764 SHICH PROVIDED YOU WITH INFORMATION ON TERRORIST PLOTTING OF i

CUBAK

ARMY MAJOR MONTES.
REPORTED THAT THE PARTICIPANTS DISCUSSED THE FACT THAT FORMER

EXILES AND INFORHATION RELATING TO THE ACTIVITIES OF U.S.
IN RELATION TO THE PARAGRAPH TUO MEETING. SOURCE

SECRETLEY OF STATE KISSINGER MET IN EITHER MEXICO OR COSTA RICA WITH
RE IN THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT NAMED HART” {PROBABLY
pe

15
OS}. KISSINGER WAS LABELED A TRAITOR AND PLANS
THE

|

| "AN IMPORTANT FIGUI
j Qed
i

'

i

1

}

;

ARMAKEO HART DA’
WERE PISCUSSED TO ASSASSINATE HIM IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA.

PERSCK CHARGED WITH COORDINATING THIS ACTION WAS PETER {OF PEDRO) -

are:
ome: : :
veers .
on:
- . :
: seteens oonees toe omarme ormenee nmeerecammes comets
g2 IMPDET

cu py: 009439

vet tn eNO Pa ett

same

(eas


ro

pean Cretan uae omy

a a ne) o
RO SECRET
4 ee reenact leaiueehoaat reepePreasatL ated tap aod my easene meROS
: . | CIA
CONF. iro: FILE ([S006 mos DISSEW Br
nee
DB scwere PER

tA bene
MARTINEZ. SCURCE BELIEVED THAT MARTINEZ RESIDED IN MIAMI. THE
PLAN WAS NOT CARRIED OUT BECAUSE THE ‘aan, aad OUT" AND "AN
- IMPORTANT EXZLE." IDENTIFIED AS MANOLO Ree WHO ALSO. LIVED aN
A PROMINENT

MIAMI. CSVECTED AND THREATENED TO ADVISE GLICELSS Seer
FCN

smaseareninam- 9447
ONE ARMANDO 2B ALLERO PARODI, WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON

10 JULY 1AN3, LAS A FORMER MEMBER OF THE 250L BRIGADE. HE as i
¢ TERMINATED BY THIS AGENCY IN MAY 1963. IN LATE 1963 STHERE WAS
?
INTEREST IN USING CABALLERO IN TEACHING INFILTRATION TECHNIQUES BUT

THERE IS NO INDICATION THAT HE WAS CONTACTED IN THIS REGARD
eer

5S. .THIS AGENCY HAS NO INFORMATION ON DANILO GONZALEZ, IDENTI-
FIED AS PRESIDENT OF THE CUBAN CLUB IN SANTO ‘DOMINGO, OR ON LOCAL c+
oe
EMPLOYEES OF THE AMERICAN EMBASSY IN SANTO DOMINGO. JOSE RENE ROMAN,
A220 70l- Vol a :
JOSE Jerez OR FRANKLIN POLANCO.

oa VOREGE ALONSO poste ts ‘pRopaaLy IDENTICAL WITH JORGE ALONSO-

Mb phat HIS”
Faso BeRnUDeZ UHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 20 marae a HE IS THE
+ SON OF FORMER CUBAN VICE PRESIDENT GUILLERNO ac $uSPusoL. uHo SERVED = j
DURING THE ADMINISTRATION OF CARLOS PRIO- ALONSO-PUJOL RECEIVED

“pate:
ORG: i
‘UNIT:
oT:
+ ne ome eases cocems tt ee
eleven foo’, , €22". UMPDET
SECRET sees 2 OGL BY: CO9499



eases mersarwa inmnee

oteanes sence rotons carers ono _
ory
l1Scoo moe DISSEM BY,
cee en

cone: mero. Fie

e200

TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY DURING 19b3 AND WAS caPTUREDBAT” THE, BAY
OF PIGS. HIS FATHER puree yenLy PATD 6100,.000 FOR HIS SON'S RELEASE.
HOWEVERS AT THE TIME THE RANSOM BAS EFFECTED. THERE WAS CONSIDERABLE
SPECULATION AMONG EXILES IN THE MIAMI AREA THAT HIS FATHER DID NOT
PAY THE RANSOM BUT HAD MADE A DEAL WITH THE CUSAN GOVERNMENT FOR
ALONSO-PUJOL TO UNDERTAKE PRO-CASTRO PROPAGANDA IN LATIN AMERICA IN
EXCHANGE FOR HIS FREEDOM. ALONS O-PUJOL WAS ARRESTED IN MIAMI IN

* JUNE 1970 OM MARCOTICS-RELATED CHARGES: IT-IS BELIEVED THAT THE
DRUG ENFORCEMEHT ADMINISTRATION MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL -PERTINENT INFOR~
MATION ON JORGE ALONSO-PUJOL BERMUDEZ.¥

“2s THES AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTHEFY

ERNESTC ERUANDED BASED ON ig LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMA~

TION a ead5Ga : 632 99

&- PABLO MARTIN IS THE PEN NAME SED BY AVENOL FRANCO, BHO Is
Pract ey ite
ALSO KNORUN AS FRANCISCO AVENOLL. FRABCO, WHO HAY NOT BE IDENTICAL

“ BITH THE MARTIN MENTIONED IN REFERENCE. WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 2b JUNE
"293b. FRANCO HAS SERVED AS PROPAGANDA SECRETARY FOR THE CUBAN EXILE
ORGANIZATION “JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA™ AND WAS EDITOR OF “THE ANTI-CASTRO

Dares
oma:
untts
om

aememearme omens
lmarpstgetnaad : . g2 IMPDET
SECRET cL BY:009499

A ethene re gio tmeae Set



‘OUTGOING MESSAGE

rosa cenrmes

t) Q
>
esr nme oan : om wissen nevernca mene
CIA
conF:” INFO: PILE LSS oS 4 ered ierwacietiatt
fee Cesare
D one # } :

PU2LICATION "AMIGO a ears AS OF MAY LSL8.¥

7 4. tls FEtRA Ts te possteLy IDENTICAL WITH FRANCISCO ANTONIO
in Peete acanar sie wHo WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 12 JULY 3934. TEIRA IS

A FORMER CUSAN INTELLIGENCE OFFICER WHO JUNPED SHIP IN PANAMA IN

JULY 1969 AND REQUESTED ASYLUM. HE HAS APPEARED BEFORE THE U.S.

SENATE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY AND HAS GIVEN TESTIMONY RBELATING

TO THE COMMUNIST THREAT TO THE U.S. VIA THE CARIBBEAN.Y

* Wo 20. THIS AGENCY ‘HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY LUIS
Noy ‘
: ROSS BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION. ’ Ee

ats BE2LE7
JOSE, Agotia 1S POSSTBLY IDENTICAL WITH JOSE RAMON FLORENCIO

Suk ties WHO BUAS BORN IN LAS VILAS;s CuaAs ON 2? OCTOBER 3932.

AGUTLA HAS LONG BEEN IDENTIFIED AS AN IKFORHAKT FOR DOMINICAN i

INTELLIGENCE. ¥ er 29 PE 7 |
12. ONE As UILPREDO BLANCO EL) CASTILLOs, BORN IN GUINES. CUBA,

ON b FEBRUARY 19W3, WAS SCHEDULED TO RECEIVE PARAMILITARY TRAINING

FROM THIS AGENCY IN EARLY 14b}. THIS AGENCY HAS NO ADDITIONAL

INFORMATION ON Ae bac iia BLANCO DEL CASTILLO.Y vA . 0"
; +h an
i 33. LEVI MA! RERO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL wITH LEVI C. MARRERO
he ATED :
‘ORIG:
uNrts
om
teen omens cronenaimes concen evermore |

eeeemeanon i } £2 :MPOET :
ce ey: B0aNaa

Sree SRE Nr eH ee eS



“OUTGOING MESDAGE
tony fe} -

o Q o o

barntwe eeove

ont
CIA
S006 D mee ois ors
. i)

conr WFO: FILE
OD servo PER

D ome =
5 OCTOBER 1910- MARRERO HAS

ARTILES WHO vas BORN IN HAVARA ON S
BEEN ACTIVE IN THE REVOLUTIONARY PARTY OF THE PEOPLE {PRP} SINCE ITS

7 FORMATION IN COSTA RICA IN NOVEMBER 1972-4

a4. lated AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY JOSE

aera
LUIS PRADO BASED ONLTHE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION.Y

Bap BE CLEO
ANDRES SARGEN IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH ANDRES NAZARIO
Sh 38D
SARGEN WHO “WAS BORN IN LAS VILAS, CUBA, ON 11 MARCH 152b. NAZARIO
TS A LONG TIME ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVIST AND SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE
' CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATION. TALE Abby
“791 * .

JORGE NAS CANOSA ae PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JORGE LINCOLN

: 20182 gEESS J Oras it
HAS CANOSA WHO WAS BORN IN SANTIAGO DE CUBA ON 23 SEPTEMBER 1939.
HAS WAS RECRUITED BY THIS AGENCY IN MARCH 1561 TO PARTICIPATE IN THE

HE HAS NOT BEEN USED BY THIS AGENCY IN ARY :

NAS HAS BEEN ACTIVE IN

IN JANUARY 1566 HE |

. BAY OF PIGS INVASION.
H BOPERATIONAL CAPACITY SINCE THE BAY OF PIGS.
| ‘ THE CUSBAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE RECE? GROUP.
i WAS THE SUBJECT OF A DEPARTHMENT OF JUSTICE INQUIRY REGARDING CER-
; * TAIN INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN A HIT- AND-RUN RAID CONDUCTED IN THE

HAVANA HARBOR AREA IN NOVEMBER 1565. eo

1 DATEL . a
ORIG: 2 . .
own,
ext:
exssee ores es pacceoe ae
eens Paar
SECRET 5 tu ay: Bostas



iE

CUTGOING | MESSAGE

brava. eanren uss oF

aon
onF oO o 0 i) o o o

SECRET.
enna nero pa sentteetnteons
CIA 5

com: wro: me ALE Ace et (eet mimetic
D wcrmnre PER '

: Au- 22 S97F Dons '#
1. ye nt FRANCO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JUAN EDUARDO
PERee Waheed WHO AS BORN IN HAVANA ON 28 JANUARY 2928. PEREZ
RECEIVED PARAMILITARY TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY IN LATE 1960 AND

WAS ACTIVE IN THE 82506 BRIGADE. AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH PEREZ

WAS TERMINA IN JAN pens 1942.4
wy 419-701

La. FREDD' UGO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH THE FREDDY LUGO WHO

WAS ARRESTED IN 7% FN EO CONNECTION WITH THE CUBANAHAZRLINER CRASH.

Vy | GERMAN LOZANO fi PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH GERMAN RICARDO

fis
LOZANO WHO WAS ARRESTED ALONG WITH FREDDY LUGO IN 197b.¥

20. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY
FERNANDO aiche Elsen ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMA~
TION.Y i au BESO

21. GENERAL JUAN NEPOMUCENO FOLCH PEREZ, AIR ADVISOR TO THE !
EXECUTIVE BRRANCHs WAS BORN IN PUERTO PLATA, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. ;
FOLCH HAS SERVED AS SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE Ee

OK 3 AUGUST 192b.

“DOMINICAN AIR FORCE AND MORE RECENTLY AS AIR FORCE CHIEF OF STAFF
“IN LATE MAY 1972 USDA, SANTO DOMINGO. REPORTED THAT FoRER IEF

2/0614
OF THE CUBAN NATIONAL POLICE. GENERAL MANUEL Senrrez VALDEZ. HAD
‘DATE:

‘ORIG:
unit:

xt:
pincer Pec Lenemacnes
7 earersanoe . — 2 IMPDET
: : Lfh BY: COW7T

mre



OUTGOING wassé SAGE

promas EOwTER USE OMY

rrr are
onF oO o oO tt) t) a
euseseeanen a
Se 6 Ret .
veecenmanoume moeston am men enone i on ——
CIA :
CONF: "wweo: Fie F00e 3 ne ae

O merenre PER ‘

VISITED THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC IN AN EFFORT TO SELL. 40 TNE :
DOMINICANS, ARMAMENT AND SPARE PARTS FROM A U-S.-BASED FIRM WHICH
BENITEZ WAS REPRESENTING.. BENITEZ HAD CONTACTED TUO DOMINICAN
‘GENERALS ONE OF THEM BEING FOLCH+ USDAO COMMENTED THAT FOLCH'S
ASSOCIATION WITH CUBAN EXILES AND ARMS SALESMEN HAD SEEN THE
SUBJECT OF PREVIOUS CORRESPONDENCE DURING 1972 AND THAT FOLCH WAS
ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED WITH MILITANT CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, SUCH AS “ALPHA
+ bbs” DURING 19b2-1963.¥ co a
22. ACCORDING TO A USUALLY RBMELIABLE SOURCE, IN LATE. DECEMBER
aus one vinotite S60%Gks roewrzFTED AS A NEMBER OF A RIGHTIST GROUP
i WHICH WAS ORGANIZED TO COUNTER THE SPREADING OF INFLUENCE BY FORMER
"CONSTITUTIONALISTS” IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. THE GROUP WAS
RESPONSIBLE FOR PLACING PLASTIC EXPLOSIVE AT THE GRAVESITE OF LT.
COLONEL RAFAEL tonas "FERNANDEZ DOMINGUEZ IN SANTIAGO. DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC, IN MID-DECEMBER _19b5 oe AN APPARENT ATTEMPT TO MURDER
“couoneL Fanctsco Camano GSENG? WHO UAS ATTENDING A CEREHONY TH
: “HONOR OF FERNANDEZ. THE GRBOUP WAS UNSUCCESSFUL IN ITS ATTEMPT TO

DETONATE THE EXPLOSIVE.¥

ate:
ORIG: .
uNtT:
ext:

E 2 IMPDET
499.

maw. FINA

a
g



brome conten ust omy

awe on we y08, a
OnF. O bea (Js 3 o o
peerereinsy .

SECRET | exe -
SeAsnet ane ameate tare-twt omc mn etoaasenervannece monn
CIA
cone. INFO: PILE » (1 F006 4 fewer aeaaat tee
: D newenso PER qe

: eA
or #,
23. FRANK CKORAL IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL UITH DRT-FRENK CABRAL

CALCAGHO WHO WAS BORN IN SANTO DOMINGO. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. ON
b FEBRUARY 1542. CABRAL SERVED AS CIVILIAN ADVISOR TO PRESIDENT
JOAQUIN BALAGUER FROM 2570 UNTIL HIS ARREST IN LATE JUNE 2974 AS A
RESULT OF THE DISCOVERY OF NUMEROUS WEAPONS AND TELTAP EQUIPMENT IN
HIS HOME. CABRAL HAD USED HIS RESIDENCE AS A CENTER OF ORPERATIONS
BHILE RUNNING HIS OWN INTELLIGENCE NETWORK. CABRAL WASBSENT INTO
EXILE AND RETURNED TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FROM SPAIN IN JULY 4975.
HE HAS SERVED | AS SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE DISSIDENT FACTION OF THE

DEMOCRATIC QUISGUEYAN PARTY {PQD3.¥
‘p61 EY A077
24s, MAJOR JUAN POU CASTRO. MORE COMMONLY REFERRED TO AS JUAN
POU, JUNIOR, IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH THE BROTHER OF MAJOR JOAQUIN
eye
ANTONIO Kor astac. THIS AGENCY HAS NO ADDITIONAL BIOGRAPHIC BADATA
ON JUAN POU. HOUEVER, HIS BROTHER JOAQUIN, WHO UAS BORN IN SANTO

DOMINGO ON 1 MARCH 1935. GAINED NOTORIETY BY "BNEUTRALIZING"

“TERRORISTS WHEN HE. WAS ASSOCIATED WITH THE SPECIAL OPERATICNS GROUP,

: “RILITARY INTELLIGENCE SECTION {0-2} OF THE DOMINICAN, ARMED FORCES.¥

25. IN APRIL 14bb ONE COLONEL pauctno" eves E LEON, WHO IS

bara: nae
one: i:
UNIT:

om : :



OUTGOING MESSAGE
a

onr oD o 0 oo
SECRET :
ee etonasie eee om a
; CIA : :
CONF: “awro: rite . 11 S00¢ ee eeeeeaas
: D mene

D arvere PEA

0 #
PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH THE REYES MENTIONED IN REFERENCE, WAS ONE
T 7
OF WHREE DOMINICAN NILITARY OFFICERS WHO WAS CALLED TO SANTO DOMINGO

: TO BE QUESTIONED ABOUT HIS INVOLVEMENT IN THE ALLEGED ‘PLOT TO

ASSASSINATE GENERAL JOSE Hortus. PREVIOUS INFORMATION FROM 1L5LS

INDIGCATES THAT JOSE PAULINO REYES DE LEON.
D992 IN LA VEGA, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, WAS COMMANDER OF THE NATIONAL

WHO WAS BORN ON S MAY

POLICE IN SAN FRANCISCO DE HACORIS.¥

fy 2b pM FOES ITER FROM JULY 39Gb IDENTIFIES ONE CAPTAIN FELIPE
|g ROJAS LOPEZ AS aN AIDE UITH THE INTER-AMERICAN DEFENSE BOARD.
THIS AGENCY HAS NOBADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON RouAS LOPEZ. |_|

| |COnMENT: SOURCE WAS NOT POSITIVE THAT ROUAS ATTENDED
| THE MEETING.+¥ a
27. ONE MAJOR DARIO L. DIAZ GIL, WHO WAS BORN IN THE DOMINICAN

|

|

| REPUBLIC ON 19 DECEMBER 193b+ IS A MEMBER OF THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE
H 7

a

PARACHUTE BRIGADE.Y 4:

eb. ANA, MARGARITA IDE\UTUDT IS THE WIFE OF EULALIO FRANCISCO

FRANK} CasTRO PAZ.Y
IN MAY 1977 OUR MEXICO CITY FIELD STATION IDENTIFIED

24.

suretemaarens comers
— 2 IMPDET
ct Lats oo"

coenomare ommcone



“ SANTANA’

: OF INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST ACTIVITY.

OUTGOING MESSAGE

pressor meramnea maneee

cure ree onoue
ng oO DISSEM BY
ote 1 :
Uyooo +ateadee
O severe PER
yo7?) i
70 O mms #8
HODGEN AS THE PARTNER OF FRANK CASTRO. © THE STATION

con; WFO: FILE

WINFRED E.
ADVISED THAT IN EARLY 1977 HODGEN GAVE A PHONY CHECK FROM A MIAN
BANK IN THE AMOUNT OF 923,000 TO A DOMINICAN MONEY CHANGER <FNUP
SANTANA STATED THAT HE HAD CHANGED "SMRBMANY MANY" DOLLAR
CHECKS INTO DOMINICAN PESOS FOR HODGEN/CASTRO AND. THISUSH YAS THE

FIRST PHONY CHECK. SANTANA ALSO SAID HE BELIEVED HODGEN WAS HIDING

IN GUATEMALA-Y

INFORMATION ON WINFRED E+ HODGEN.¥
30. ADDI ary ONAt ANE INF 9RnATION DEVELOPED BY THIS AGEHCY ON EULALTO
Wa) PCT LAALY, ter 279 AG 2

FRANCISCO — Hike: ToLANde OTERO HERNANDEZ, ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA

ot
AND GUZLLERNO Novo SAMPOL HAS BEEN FORUARDED” TO YoU IN PREVIOUS

CORRESPONDENCE. Y

BL. THE ABOVE INFORMATION WAS ACQUIRED BY CIA PURSUANT TO ITS

RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE COLLECTION OF INTELLIGENCE ON FOREIGN ASPECTS
THIS INFORMATION SHOULD NOT BE
FURTHER DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR CONSULTATION WITH THIS AceNCY.¥
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-1,2-d

32.
pares
ORIG:
‘UNIT:
on
chissame sovnes ceemenarne eonenee ewes oma
— 2 IMPDET

erseneanoe
CL EY:

IT IS BELIEVED THAT | THE FAA MAY HAR ADDITIONAL PEERTINENT vw

i

a he



BiONAy COnTER Uae OMY
aoe eo a teed ne

a a a i i a 13
SCCRET
pie eeejunieuneenaes Sane fom eee
D wore iSseM BY:
ASO9S D nomen

tones iNPO: PLE
: OD cimanro PER

O wm 2.
"B CODE" TO FOLLOWING: B203-O2%2413 {SOTO-HAYET}, 201-0284805

{CABALLERO}, 203-0844325 CALONSO-PUVOL?, 203-0834558 FRANCO? 202-

~ 06533h7 {TETRA}, 201-033228? {AGUILAD, 201-029852b {DLANCO}, 201-
0355380 {NAZARIO}, 201-G297837 {MAS}, 201-0285794 {PEREZ» 201-035S002_
{FOLCH}s 203-0878309 {CABRAL}, 201-D842677 {POU, JOAQUIND. INDEX:
MAJOR DARIO L. DIAZ GIL BINFRED E. HODGEN, AND ANA MARGARITA DE
WINDT, WIFE OF CASTRO PAZ {202-07423b5).

# ORIG! LA/AN/CH {BASHAU XBOTHIS COORD! C/LA/AN {BEARDSLEY C/LA/CAR
{PALMER} C/LA/COG {LATRASH?% AGC/DDO {GOLDIND4 C/LA/OPS {DISTEFANO}$
SA/C/LA {STURBITTS?$ AUTH: C/LAD MUARREN}S REL? C/PCS/LSN/ID

{KUHND
: C/LA/AN bao We
: c/tas counplainly

Beawee A katie
:
7
C/LAsOPS

SA/C/L

pare, 20, OCTOBER 1977
par! ALICE BASHA :
ome’ LA/AN/CH

1034

Yoon Le

CABRSSCLAN/ID soonomarme ormanes fam GtebAD omnes
camantea! (7 E 2 IMPDET

SECRET

RARER odie ty


f

a a:

vibe

21 JULY 1977

: CIASSIFICATION: © i
4
SUBJECT: UNKNOWN POTS; EXPLOSION IN CAR 4
DRIVEN BY OPIANDO LETHLIEK - VICTIM
= (DECEASED) rs 4
FRI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.) i j
i
ae
a a s q - - 4
i
bi 4





GAMLE BEE CHOSEN OF

reesosi unt nonnee,

onz-

T ze4e3 1 A382 PAGE 3
TORt2621232 AUG 77" [| 37e18 A

SEC RE T 26212092 AUG 77 STAFF

CITE 37016

Tor INFO DIRECTGR,
WN INTEL Wheat FuDWELL

REF: MEMO OF 4 AUG 77 FRON LEGATT [___—romwanoea ay tm :

1, Reus PASS FOLLOWING COMMENTS TO LEGATT SCHERRER KEYED TO

=
HIS SEF MEMO ON DESRIEFING OF ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ:

ONLY NAME CLOSE IS ONE i

1) NO STATION, DAC TRACES ON MAYOR (FNU) TORRES,

‘ 2) NO STATION TRACES | |

WHO DESCRIBED IN FEB 72 AS A 1ST CLASS DETECTIVE WHO

ENTERED THE SERVICE IN 1954,

3) NO STATION TRACES
“4) THERE ARE SEVERAL PARACHUTE CLUBS IN

BUT WE HAVE NOT YOST JDENTIFIZ) CONE CALL "LOS SCORPIONES,* Hi

5) THIS FROSASLY & REFESENCE TO :

WHICH LOCATED ON SOUTHERN OUTSKIRTS OF

6) NC TRACES ON CaPTaINS 08 |

IN apLition TO Teese

rae

visit



eae

T 122433

PGE Ore 02 “Tw 335043

37218

fRuy 1M FOR INFO

RISK OF ALERTING GOC

2, SraTles Can Sueay SguACE §

ABGYE NAMED PESSONS, BUT AT Some SLI
TO USG INTESSST. PLS aGviSe IF YOU WOULD LIKE US TO MAKE

THIS QUERY,

3. FILE: oe €2 IMPcet

- s€crer q



STL ASLAYOO CPERO oP cAMEL
Feohe de Sasintontet 12 fo wtrt} de 191 i i
Feturaj2 Lorleme, Pinar dol Klow Sebanas 7

Yecha dte-ro ol grupct Sept. 10 : eee a
Serectasivint Qgcins y cmpas curtse, pistele y ravclrer.
Xacbra de sup Sras, Pacreut Relondo 7 Barget.

socbre'de su Srey Ba-osat Mo,

Gurgn Obeerveaiorost 1) Yor, ano de Deehillersto, Zestaurent feces 7 be egt to cu
petra 5 ness, Ayurtartento ge Mariano 2 mores en 1977, Fov. 16 legal 9 cave Beree
3} Getolicas 3)Xiarums 4) Goi terns que respete ¢] ¢oreche da tos eiutedanca y lleva
oe seononteyg) Eeonsaia d-sarrolieda at misions €) Ejereito, Aviseton Kiitter.
Btrectoxonte: _ Meats ce

j

fesectabutbnlirnae senate andl seein cuttin Boaineeacel



ST2E  SDLATHO OPFRO un AMDE
Fooha As Varinlowtet 12 go strt} de 1952 : : s,
Baturad: 22. mit 34k Klee Sobanas sees)
Pesha dwtecre el gruzot Sem. Ive

meme, P

Ssrectastvtas Mhcina y crmaa cortag, ptetola y revelver.
Moxtye do ous Sroo, Pulress Rolendo 7 Garget.
soctrGde au Sra, Burosas So,

Stree Odcerveelerost 1) for, ano do Beehtllorcto, Zestaurent 2 sccaa 7 be oge 4a aw
gotre 5 nssec, Aywtar tonto de Hartenco 2 moves on 1957, Kev. 1¢ leged 9 eayo Berea
S$} Getoltea; Z)Riagurey 4) Vol terna qe respote #1 derecho da tos eludcdancs y Love

~ 26Gg8 ceonsate gS) Econmia dranrrolicda ab mixinas 6) Rjoretto, aviaodon Kilitars

bd ‘ “Birectanente Kinet, :

- : -

we



fore

she,

peepee
tek

No. 2731

Nombre, Ctero Herndndez Rolando Toam A

Estatura,

Povo, 1s9
Color Ojos, Guasane Parjo« color set Pele Negro
CLoatricos viciblos. pire rae
2 °
1 42-5 4-4-5 -6-7-8-9- 10-1 12215 ~ HH 15-16

RECORD DENTAL’
32 ~ 31 = 30 = 29 = 28 = 27 = 26 ~ 25 = 28 ~ 25 ~ 22 = 21 - 20-19 ~ 18-17

Dodoo pulgsross



t
‘ Pa abhi! ’
Nee > Rolendo OTERO Hernandes
mMAGtS se Tet 27
awk. 326s
fee 4
Airborne
stars + Captured
rat :
‘ :
i
i
' i
§
i OASSSKATOG REVIEY :
t : weNLT
i
Ole ATES



~,

NOJA DZ INDENTIFLCACION PERSONAL \ i

woweno_G-7 3?
NOMBRE Y APELLIDOS,

Epucacton gus Posse_G4ADV Abe

PROP#SION. ESI t TE
OTRAS APTITUDES ZAP -— COMLFACIO — pace 4AISL ba - Se ALIVE TAR CARRS

SXPARUINCIA MILIVAS Din gaa

Yi
PSCHA DE SALIDA DS CUBA Y VIA Ws UTI.IZO (Pongs si selio logal o ilogal-

GF Diarvrimp hee - J PFF- Zor part ees wal Siageeeeee
: Vewd- Lipa. — LEGAL

7
PSCHA DE UL2GADA A LOS S¢TADOS UPIDOS Y¥ 2X QUE CONDICIONSS LUGALES VIVIA
ALLI : 7 ; 7
Fhe Y MEST =. Yad

loi

INFORMACION D3 UTILIDAD 302RE cOsAS QUZ SEPA DS SU PAIS_COWO<, (HED oe
ile S he Miran Af Re wal, Muh ES,
e 2

NS CET RANA A OB nt ent easements oe



“

AS”

Sree POLIT OTERO MERKATOSZ

i‘ INDENTI®231272H PERSONAL (ZASS TRAR)

NWERO__ 2771 : .
PELOTON Y TEAM
PECHA DE NACIMIENTO___ 26 Abril 1941

NATURAL __Matansoy=P del Plo 7 2b», :
FECHA INTEORO EL ORUTO. Sent 170

ESPECTALI STA ce OG of cage ccs eee eee eee eee eee eee
NOMERE SUS GRS. PADRES _ Rolentt 7 Yarget

NOMPRE SU SRA. ESPOSA, z
NOMBRE Y EDAD SUS HIJOS_o $$ $$ $$

—————
AQUI 82 CONDRA LB VECES QUE Hi, SIZO SUZGLDO_

ee ———

OTRLS OBSERVACIONES . —_—————

| aie


Stnatnt wins nneii iia Sie.

Weeden tat

FRY 100 V2uT
DATE: 12 JANUARY, 1977
CIASSIPITATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SURIEC7: COORPINATION OF UNITED REVOLULIONARY
OZGANIZATIONS (CORU)

“FBY PILZ 80: 2-871 (MIAMI)



1400000

\
|
; ‘
: c H
DSSTEE HAS ACEY EXTRACTED FROM ANCTHER OFFICIAL 10 FILE. - ‘
SEESTNS OERFCEMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTICNED TRAT THE once {

a yen awat ey OFATAINING TO THE, suaJecy.. AND.

\ LPS TOSEILES. —

: i
~ cress, cebannr | :
L. TE payenz agate : i
: ls 2 SER SCCH-1TELL di
2 . c9 CEC 76 i
: 4
Ener EnTyg i
Trae / ¥
LPG USA, F Ha
. re eae & ms

pitawt grb aces te AO Re



i

Bo ool Be oa

CONF IDLNT RAR
7 SECRET
(khen Filled In)

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO'a notice of 9 December 1974, I have reviewed

the 201 file on PERO. (surname) (201 number indicated below),
and have determined that {¢ can most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

Should be closed. (If this category appitec,
affix Records Officor stamp.)

Unwitting collaborator, OI Code A7.
Explanation: ¢

Witting collaborator. OI Code Al.

Potential vitting collaborator; date opened:,
OI Code A2.

Former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).
OL Code A3.

Potential witeing collaborator never contacted. OI Coda Ad.

Counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or
security service). Of Code AS.

All others, OF Code A6.

Oe Gfase he

nea Lpsos. A 64
sist Gor lhcb eldlt Goulet kn fevt [2

This oseignment of category hao been entered into STAR.
Signed Qi : 14. Phe« 7¢
(initials) (gata)

This document {0 0 peroanent part of this file. 201-

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET £2 IMPDET CL BY 061475

(When Filled In)



201 PERSONALSTY FILE ACTION REQUEST

te

Troe)

TO: IP/DMS Room CA-20 ‘Tube Addiess: D¥-6

FROM:

re

forrvee beste
(008 9-30)

Took aboaese

WOR war 7 Lars

HOLD UMMrSTeIETED Wm 1 /ceN, (iP Use Only)

oven cor

twee oF
Fie contaoe

tree oF HOLD 1m VPveay GUT oFaTmICY te Bese
actios autno 101

(Boteet onty (Botoet onty aney | Phavantntey enaouy FD paae
One) UB turea Eertowymtsy Oviy I) Cavel@nyw APVION WaT BUEN TAPIENTIN TW TTS

400 caveroure

ore) wee eave Ton

cancee covPronre

5 ror musta

oo Teun weet rs) Wirety (alaatey

ATT OS epg pee ary oat. fhapesicests
_MAwe vasianty and Teecoues (F711 Tyne, Use A For Allee, ¥ Par Variant oF AA, M Por waidenp
tee [ (hast Ginny (aidatey

2 one) 0 .

Crrrere (iP Wee Orley [11 occuPaTiON
_ ATS TIED

vzationta) [13.02 cosetsi | vay action bece coor

1

CousTay oF LécatiOn Foe Only] 10. 1avcaeat otoa cooe

: eile eect

AY, PROVIREE, CIT¥/TOam OF DIGTH

17 CITE TiELO aDDaeSOEED To GECCI¥e imbER CaODDs

woe use

swaeor, wuuora oave Bay bo ve ]td. Toestpence civen im Ootmine Cocustar

L_

70 sysuaay reat 700 (Tovert adétttenal td
tnoEH oxcooes. f2e0rd dectred. srovide opou

ifring and doccript
‘Blo dere B.

@ dots. Do aot inclade Cerptoapes, Bf oposca
Drocoded bp “Cede

caret Tavares eoby on os
Surmoaity eF suager os errete

~Sienatuor oF ot eviates

£285 BB vse veevvaee «

taal ~~ SECRET 2, — FOOT CL. BY: 000007 490-008

aan ota i : teen d



é

OUTGOING MESSAGE, |,

8 6 a ti)

pavers onese,

# om
13090, DIRECTOR
wre: ma Wfdaz, SS % Fu de.
La/to, 5, odais-| i
8A Tet, 4 220 /0'¢ Oo, YE SSS
TO? PRIORITY SANTIAGO INFO SAN JOSEs “anacas i

UNINTEL ¥ 2
be ON 1e-WOVERDER 1976 THE "UASHENGTON POST” PUBLISHED AN

ARTICLE BY JOE CRANKSHAW IN FIANI WHICH REPORTED THAT FGI HAD BEEN

TOLD OF A DINA PLOT TO USE CUBAN EXILES TO KILL LUIS ANDRES
PASCAL ALLENDE AND ANNE MARIE BRUSSIER {SIC - SHOULD
BE BEAUSIRE}. FOLLOWING ARE EXCERPTS FROM ARTICLE: ¥ |

As RICARDO O'R ALE Sv VENEZUELAN INTEL OFFICIALS
REPORTED To FBI THAT HE HAD BEEN TOLD OF A PLOT TO KILL PASCAL AND
BRUSSZER BY ROLANDO O TER O- ACCORDING TO OTERO. HE WENT FO
SANTIAGO IN EARLY FEBRUARY AND IDENTIFIED HIASELF 70 DIWA OFFICIALS
AS A FUGITIVE FROH THE-U.S. AT DINA HAS. OTERO SAID HE WAS FOLD
THAT THE SECRET PoLrce SUPPORT THE CUBAN EXILES*® CAUSE AND YOULD
PROVIDE FUNDS AND ARMS FOR THEA IN RETURN FOR A °FAVOR.” THE FAVOR
WAS TO KILL PASCAL AND BRUSSIER IN COSTA RICA BEFORE 22 FEBRUARY
L97%be OTERO QUOTED DINA SPOKESHEN AS SAYING BOSCH YOULD BE BACKUP
IF OTERO OFAILED IN THE AISSTON. ACCORDING TO OTERO, HE REFUSED TO
BO THE FAVOR A" LEFT CATLE AND TOLD FORALES. WE THEN RETURNED 6 .

way”
CU:
uonis a 7 .
ae ler He
. y,
BLO 2 9FL IZ “RECGED COPY 7
4 G2 3D COPY AOS LIS
SECR € ? ePRODUS ae BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OPPICE IS nested eae HERAT

-



pee

SER Fr pt ee

i
'
j

| EW “JACKSONVILLE. WHEN OTERO STARTED TO TESTIFY ABOUT HIS" ACTIVITIES
Ih CHILES GovT PROSECUTORS OBJECTED THAT IN 0 was, INMATER q
: ‘BoNBING ¢ ANCES :

-QUTGOING MESSAGE:

rome gewren vos one
rn i a

or oo so o 9 o oO

. cian imo: mus a oe H ail issew ors
l= 7 ror 0 Sony ree
i 0. oma

SANTIAGO AND. WAS ARRESTED two WEEKS LATER. ¥
B- BOSCH WAS ARRESTED ON 19 FEBRUARY ENTERING COSTA RICA
WITH A FALSE PASSPORT AND CHARGED WITH PLOTTING TO KILL SECRETARY
OF STATE HENRY KISSINGER, PASCAL AND BRUSSIER- NO TRIAL WAS HELD
AND BOSCH WAS LATER DEPORTED. HE RETURNED TO SANTIAGO AND
APPARENTLY REMAINED THERE UNTIL GOING TO CARIBBEAN TO ORGANIZE CORU. ¥
Cc. INFO ON THIS ALLEGED DINA-CUBAN EXILE CONSPIRACY wAS

SUPPRESSED DURING THE SEPTEMBER 7b FEDERAL BOMBING TRIAL or OTERO.

1

OTERO was FOUND. INNOCENTS HIS ‘TRIAL oN RELATED.

STATE CHARGES WAS TO BEGIN IN MIAME on MONDAY ry NOV? BUT BAS

ORDERED PosTPoNeD UNTIL EARLY 3972. ¥.
d-  pTERO HAD LIVED IN MEBFLORIDA UNTIL LATE DECEMBER 1975
WHEN HE WAS TOLD BY FBI INFORMANT. THAT FBI WAS PREPARING TO HAVE HIM

INDICTED ON BOMBING CHARGES. OTERO THEN WENT TO DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

WHERE HE WAS ARRESTED AND PAROLED. WHEN MZANI FEDERAL GRAND JURY
TO CARKCAS WHERE STAYED

RETURNED INDICTHENTS AGAINST OTERO
ome: : eee eee ues
SS He

tl wee

REPROOU _— ov omen THAN Tue Sssuih soba Wee

eeweston
SECRET sees tena



OUTGOING. MESSAGE :

oé
5 SONAL Ceorea yea ome
eee see a er)
of. 9 .°O .0 Oo oO 8 6B
euserearan
SECRET
mannan ANNE RA TOR rere enw i nm orseses eesenece meen
STAFF : DIRECTOR :
oe ~— orssEM OY:
fH COMPY

; ayant

WITH MORALES. INFO IN REPORTS ALLEGES THAT OTERO WAS TOLD THAT iF
VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES MOVED TO ARREST HIM. HE COULD RECEIVE ASYLUM’ :
! WITH NEW CHILEAN AMBASSADOR. WHILE IN CARACASs OTERO ALLEGEDLY — : ;
TOLD MORALES THAT HE HAD COMMITTED THE BOMBINGS IN MIAMI AND

MORALES PASSED THIS INFO TO FBI.¥

2. MUCH OF INFO. ON PLOT TO KILL PASCAL AND BRUSSIER APPARENTLY
TAKEN FROM 25 FEBRUARY 3976 FBI REPORT WHICH COULD COME FROM MORALES.
1 , MORALES WAS SOURCE OF NUMEROUS SECRET SERVICE REPORTS DURING i
KISSINGER VISIT TO CARACAS IN FEBRUARY 76 ON REPORTED ATTENPT BY
j ‘ BOSCH TO KILL KISSINGER. ONE SECRET SERVICE REPORT INDICATED THAT
; (MORALES HAD PROVIDED CARACAS LEGAL ATTACHE WITH RELTABLE INFORMATION

:
t
"QW THE PaST.¥

B.A. Fre: eon-zgana, 20s-299292. £2 IMPDET-d

7 - , fpesfoe Creag #5)

ve ET a aeelag rns
oF AC7LA/ENC ae

i C/LAJIICA C/K
: eoenomaree ee
enoneanese fc papeasucnoe BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO «6G 2) IMPDET.
CL BY:
Secret avaasa



1
ceopind

7 4 2222574 CIA/DDO
con: a wd ue © oye \: se\ WE

08

TOs PRI GKITY FOLERAL BURCAL GF LNVLATIGAT LY,
GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION. ¥

SECRET- WARNING KOTICE-SENSTViVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCCS AND meTH
INVOLV D-HOT RELCASAULE TO FORETGN NATIONALS.

car au.oudue-vy
P scauest

Tan uitlot MAY HAVE OCEN OBTATNGY

FOR

IHF OR:

INTERROGATEOH, O ROL ANOS

CR TINONT ORMATY

THE CHILEAN

AGLES

KEGAR GANG COMNKECTIONS Jt)
_DIRECTOAATE OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE {biNA} THAT MAY HAVE OfEN
DEVEL yep BY YOUR OFFICE IN THE INTERROGATION OF KOLANDO O TE RO

THIS INFORMATION IS NEEDED IN ORDER To ASSIST ae

CRNA IDEZ IN MAY 147b-
TIAGO FIELD STATION LN THE COLLECTION OF INFOKMATION POSSIOLY

EM TENBER LI7L ronBINc! DEATH OF FORMER CHILEAN

THE $

RELATED TO THE 3.
SHE US. ORLANDO LE TELLIER

jj “ AMBASSADOR TO.
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPCRTING OFFICER.

a
FILE: eco- ae eooees 202-6S2228-

XGDSe2. 5 cecae
“Lilet

oe PILE By

 E2 INPLETed

i]
} oat: a
ie i 22 OCTOBES G47 |e .
onic: Wiertowey
CL moNTourcRt oan Ce Pes YDB '- C-ENSIGHT Do_xOT DEstTSo7
.

our
Lagsescn : Lo CIN DRAFTS

: { &, Vea ect SB hn

senerrita re TTTILE Isr

EB 2 WPDET
Cort: 134754



” CONTACTS, ESPECIALLY THOSE RELATED TO REFS A AND Ce ¥

“OUTGOING “MESSAG

Be onr- 0-0
casteaitin’
SECRET : ;
00 80e mamas momen tie - Oars met Coon om Weesens necpagnte mmaen
STAFF .  :Wandoz DIRECTOR 942799
conr: Ye wero: PLE ly clr eee 4 ~~ omen:
4 0 cnmse 9m :
oy O ome 8° i
TO: PRIORITY SANTIAGO. ¥ ae
UNINTEL ¥ : ie 175 $f > i
REFS! A. ENGASSY TELEGRAM SANTIAGO 9992. ZS OCTOBER 1976 H
B. DIRECTOR 922297 a fe
: €. DIRECTOR S4Lzb5 ¥ i :
i
IN VICW OF 12 NOVEMBER 1976 ARTICLE IN "UASHINGTON POST" '

1
{BEING RELAYED SANTIAGO}, DEALING WITH ALLEQGED DINA PLOT TO KILL
PASCAL ALLENDE. WOULD APPRECIATE ANY INFO ON DINA-CUBANM EXILE

@- FILE: 15-S-1. 201-299292. 201-284813- €2 IMPDET-d -

LA COMMENTS- A- ALLEGED ANTI- caste cusan EXxILe cgutaes® In -

CHILEAN GOVT.

B. REQUEST FOR INFO ON REF ie

C+ EXTRACT FROM FBT REPORT OF 4 NOV 7b ON VISIT
IN EARLY 75 TO CHILE BY CUBAN EXILE AND HIS
CONTACT WITH “PATRIA Y LIBERTAD-”

1

1 42 NOV Te” ee =F

oarg GROSS FILE COPY POR
ened 202-27 Mf
unit: “ LA7SB/CH/R 7 4 fine
oT ay ey ‘ EE = :
fe Vp : : : i
Lf Shit Wf Le; 7 ie i
cecaemerme cocaine emewreara comes H
b acpcmstesuezen! REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED —e2 IMPDET ‘
cL BY: 0269S2 i



sate.
de.

FILE

: : clea, cloeshit @ & ¢ fom ti ie -
Le _Oloms & ineees .
: oo ElAobe PAGE O1-03 NC..38285
Tors2721562 OCT 76 LoS PP -
| “'P 2721428 oct 76 :
: FM DIRECTOR, FBS :
{TQ RUBALINCDIRECTOR, CIA ae

1 Vecret
{ |. .UNSUSSs BOMSING OF FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR To UsSes

i OALSNIO LETELIER, ETs ALee WASHINGTON, DiCoe i

! SEPTEMBER 21, 1976; PROTECTION OF FOREIGN OFFICIALS © MURDER, i
te REURTEL CITE CIA/DDO $32557 AND CIR=316/84346-75, !
! THE Fey DID NOT DEVELOP. ANY INFORMATION DURING THE aba telat t
{ OF ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ IN MAYs 1976, THAT WOULD DEVELOP eet
i CONNECTIONS BETWEEN CUBAN EXILES AND THE CHILEAN DJacCToasTe oF
{ NATIONAL JNTELLIGENCE (DINA), FOR YOUR INFORMATION, & POSSTOLE
t CONNECTION BETWEEN CUBANS AND DINA WAS NOT PURSUED DURING THE

a Hl INTERVIEWS OF OTERO.
| CLASSIFIED BY baa9, xGDs 2) INDEFINITE.

xGDs 2

boar i : sECRET



a i
ss &
i ; ; i
| Penson iar toe prep arreere = bt - -;
f MANCY Wi tur :
aaa sayrpzpyortee os . eee eeeea emcee eos,
’ 1, [rie, ve, ewes Ps/uc2, Ulan, 21D, OPS/INT S, CE Uy : | aac
BEE TEN) eee emma ene nears uaa 4 aaarnting
ee RT 2 BS) edna
' °
: 1N 877749 : ‘

T 325998 b1A266 PAGE 02
 Torszeadeae oct 76

| SECRET 2214132 OCT 76 INTEL TOF IRDB- TS/1057-7_
} 2 WS-WT2 >
: CITE SANTIAGO 35326 : aaa

Tos OSRECTOR INFO cadtis.

WNISTEL
1 SUPO&TAS 2KWAHOO FOR HGS REVIEW. PLEASE CALL THE INFORMATION
z IN THIS REPGAT TQ THe ATTENTION OF AMdASSADOR: POPPER,

SOURCE PARA 3-4 IS FUDDULE49s PARAS 607 IS

FUBARGAIN TAKEN FROM SANTIAGO sata? ano sesore
RELATED-TO ODsK1A. NOT PASSED LOCAL LSAISON.
INDEX! BOSCH AND OTERO. CL BY @4869-

+ FULER 15-5474, *

Ww

FILED $¢ 2214132 XMXKK -

TID COMET! LIFTER CABLE SENT. SENT ELECTRICALLY. TO SeS PER DESK ‘REQUEST.

CROSS FILE COPY 702
201-, a



“Se PRIORITY
W 072748
RNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELL SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED iH
JEATE/meR JCH/ME (OTA) CILKAEE SWS NGA TREAS NAC/S SOD MIO CRS PAGE] OF 4 PAGES

S {SYCT/STBL - SS(1D. IT Sens cree roecen Rid 40.1081 anyon
Noidionr or OTN GG tasted SRT Be Le ea

 OPLEATIONS
FURTHER DISSEMINATION ANO USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO i
CONTROLS ST. BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

AN TNFORMAVION’ REPORT, NOT FINATLY’ EVALUATED INTRUIGENCE
QTE TORR pB-315/10S7b-7

"DIST 22 OCTOBER 197%

es
SECRET

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICES *SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN
NATLONALS@eNOT RELEASAGLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRAC TORY
" consucranrs i i ‘
COUNTRY: CHILE °
, bol 1 MID*APRIL TO MID-OCTOBER 1976
ee a SUBVECT:¢, INFORMATION ON CUBAN EXILE
ae a “LEADERS ORLANDO BOSCH AND ROLANDO OTERO
ACO 1 QHTLE, SANTIAGO fat OCTOBER 1976) FIELD NO, HCS=10,272 .

SouRcE + SEE BELOW,

4 fea
“4 1, SOURCE GF PARAGRAPHS 3-47) sts—‘C~sCid
; HIS REPORTING IS FAIRLY RELIABLE.

haa] a AFIELD COMMENTS SANTiAGO ENBASSY TELEGRAM 10197 OF

19 octoaer REPORTED THAT THE CHILEAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN
AFFAIRS HAD BEEN KEEPING AN’ EvE ON THE ACTIVITIES OF CUBAN
fige-

BT EXILE LEADER ORLANCO SV GCS-ERSAWOTWAS Now REVIEWING “ALL
< ° B48 INFORMATION, PRESUMABLY IN LIGHT OF HIS RECENT ARREST IN

* VENEZUELA.)

3. GN 25 OCTOBER, ASSEMBLED



“

IN 077749

WARNING NOTICH
SENSITIVI: INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED _

PAGE 2° OF y PAGES

SECRET FURTHER. DISSEMINATION: AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO *
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
tatsipcaton)
A FILE ON BOSCH AT THE REQUEST OF| -

| THE FILE

{

* TWO YEARS,)

CONSISTS MAINLY OF EXCHANGES OF CORRESPONDENCE BETKEEN THE
CHILEAN EMBASSY 3N SAN JOSE, COSTA ARICA, AND THE FOREIGN
MINISTRY CONCERNING BOSCH'S ARREST IN SAN JOSE IN MARCH 1976,
AND THE FACT THAT HE HAD CHILESN SDENTITy DOCUMENTS IN HIS
POSSESSION. . .

4. THE DOCUMENTS INCLUDED A BIRTH CERTIFICATE, IDENTITY

CARD, TAX IDENTIFICATION CARD AND PASSPORT, ALL IN THE NAME

OF RICARDO RAMON DAV ANZ 0 CERUTI. THE PASSPORT WAS

ISSUED LN CHILE IN 1966, AND WAD NEVER BEEN RENEWED. (SOURCE
CHILEAN PASSPORTS NOAMALLY REQUIRE RENEWAL EVERY
THE PASSPORT CONTAINED ONE CHILEAN EXIT STAMP.

COMMENT?

DATED 19665 AND NO INDICATIGN THAT IT HAD SUBSEQUENTLY SEEN

USED TO ENTER OR EXIT CHILE, IT CONTAINED MANY EXIT AND ENTRY

i
STAMPS [NDICATING EXTENSIVE TRAVEL BY ITS BEARER IN CENTRAL

AMERICA AND PANAMA, BETWEEN 1966 AND MARCH 1976, THE PASSPORT

‘AND: OTHER DOCUMENTATION WAS SHOWN TO CHILEAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS

IN SAN JOSE BY COSTA RICAN CFFICIALS) HOWEVER» THE COSTA

RICANS OID NOT GIVE THE DOCUMENTS TO THE EMS3ASSY OFFICIALS,

a 7

i _ TOHRDG-315/1087%-%



j

ist 7 ~~
: . : ert. gain
: eee WN 077749
TOFIRDB=32S/2057b-7b.
WARNING, NUTICE, para ;
SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCLS.AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE 3 OF Y PAGES.
SECRET FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USC OF THIS INFORMATION. SUBJECT TO

Fi CONTROLS STATCD AT OEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
fetaneificatton)

5S. SQURDE GF PARAGRAPHS 6-71
Ge IN MIZaPRIL 19766 THE DIRECTORATE OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE 3EINAD RECEIVED INFORMATION THAT BOSCH “HAD JUST

ARRIVED IN CHIGE WITH A CONTHACT TO ASSASSINATE A HIGH LEVEL

CHILEAN GOVERN®ENT OFFICIAL (UNIDENTIFIED),
BOSCH EVAZED AN ARREST ACTION ON 10 APRIL, ESCAPING
BY A MATTER DF MINUTES BUT LEAVING BEHIND ALL HIS CLOTHES

AND TWO PASSPORTS, 7
7. ON 2D 2PRILD OINAe (HOWEVER, SUCCESSFULLY APPREHENDED

we

ROLANDO “9 TE Ka HEANANDEZ, AN ASSOCIATE OF BOSCH. WHO ALONG
WITH THE LaTTER KAS WANTED AS & FEDERAL FUGITIVE IN THE UNITED
STATES, IN EARLY MAY, DINA INFORMED THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF

INVESTIGATION (&B1) OF OTERO'S ARREST, AND SUaSEQUENTLY
TURNED OTERD OVER 10 FBI AGENTS FOR RETURN AND PRGCESSING IN
THE le States, CP 1RLD COMMENT! HVC*7328 ( TDFIRDS-3L5/
owt |
REPORTED THaT OTERO WAS PLANNING TO ASSASSINATE
“CHILEAN MARXIST EXTRENIST ANDRES PaSCAL ALLEANDE, AND

THAT HE WAS WORKING UNDER THE SPONSORSHIP OF THE CHILEAN
GOVERNMENT; DinatS AAZEST AND DEPORTATION TO THE U.S. OF
: : : SECRET

|
{
i



v
wages}

4
H ~~
| fee
: eS a ; ; y
i : aenan ag :
‘ \ voy if i :
if \ IN 027749
' YOFIR: DB-315/1057b-7%
: WARNING NOTICE
H SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOUHCES AND METHODS INVOLVED: PAGE 4 OF Y PAGES
: SECRET | FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO : :
; CONTKOLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND ENO OF KEPOKT, :
{2 tetaenpoatons pascal

i
: aug iat pee gue

QYERO RAISES QUESTIONS ABOUT TRE ALLEGATION OF CHILEAN
GOVERNMENT SPONSORSHIP OF OTERO AND HIS GRoUP.)

G. FIELD CISSEMI EMBASSY AY SANTIAGOS SENT TO CARACAS,
REPORT CLASS SECRET ~<HARNING NOTICE==SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND KETHGDS INVOLVED=eNOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN
NATIQNALS=eNOT RELEASAGLE TO CONTRACTORS 0R CONTRACTORY

CONSULTANTS
CLASSIFIED BY RECURDED REPORTING OFFICER, xGOS-1, 2.
ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TO STATE DIA ARMY NAVY AIR JCS SWS NSA SS/ID FBI TREAS

.. aH

CIA/OPSCEN. fa er

- a Sécr-er eae : ‘

Poot - 7 ae _

# _

er cer emmy atm nina men ann eh

' | anette mci ape en os


CARLE FROM DIRSCTOR, FEE
DATE: 27 OCTORER 1976
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PATE: 25 AURIST 1976
CIASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN: i
SURJECT: FRENTE DE LIRERACION NACIONAL DE CUBA

(FEN fae
FHI FILE NO: 1053-21892 (MIAMI) ©

Seen eee, ee a RN LER ane ce we,



. 120 ram"

ete)

: :

i

| came sec onsew ov 2 ore, 5

1 eeRuDUCTION By Orem THA
3 (aouIna OFrice "A PROMIDIT

+ PEOSONAIT MOTO

eT gO «t.
wie wpe geshzer CL
56,.Glae5. OGG 2, 5 iyleid

7 a0i0a3  E1Ad2S per ra
E : TORIC? 20172 HAY 76 Sago 36300):

“TIN 913868 1

SEC RE T 0720032 MAY 76 STAFF
“CHTE SANTIAGO 34309 (JABAUT ACTING?
TOs IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO tame Dare | PRIORITY CARACAS,
SANTO. DOMINGO, SAN JOSE. - eeu
FUBARGAIN MASP IKE : :
7 PERE SANTIAGO 34347 Cph eased) asuunt

1.

Bawa ({CHILEAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE) -
ARRESTED ROLANULO OTERO HERNANDEZ 29 APRIL AND HOLDING HIM |

INCOMMUNICADO PENDING DECISION RE DISPOSITION HIS CASE. :
2. DETAILS NOT YET AVAILABLE TO IDEN BUT UNDERSTANDS : ae
: ‘ooc CHARGES AGAINST UTERO WEAK AND PROSECUTION UNCERTAIN,
® - HE ATTEMPTING OBTAIN THINKING OF SUPERIORS GUT IN INTERIM Hw
AUTHORIZED ABOVE BE PASSED FOl.
3, APPRECIATE HOS INSTRUCTIONS ASAP PERCHANCE GOC
DECIDES RELEASE OR EXPEL OTERO.

aaa 4. FILED 2os-206e21. Ez InPDET.
ee
' [recon cory] NY
- : SECRET Cie

wrond

Le.


fea onc o1oew vDGn a x iad H 2 27)
I Pinon" ROTI 2 Tse : cret =| ee
7

PAGE 81
TORI 2800162 MAY 76 SAGO 34313

IN 914929

BH CRE T cbetees MAY 76 STAFF

CITE SANTIAGO 34313 (JABAUT ACTING) |

TON IMMGOLATH DIRECTURs) ==

FUSARGAIN MHSP IKE :

AEFS1 Ay OLAECTOR w5G972 :
: O. SANTIAGO 34309 (7/3868)
: G. SANTIAQD 34247 Quaq/seP) ;

de IDEN REF CG ADVIBED' RE FEDERAL WARRENT AND AeOUESTED” art
LEUAL PROCESS BG INITIATED WITH INVESTIGACIONES, IN ORDER

| uso REQUESTED

U-
THAT JNFO OTEROS ARREST

2. FOR SUGGEST LEGATT TOUCH BASE WITH

HRs NICHOLAS LEONDIRID UPON HIS ARRIVAL SANTIAGO FOR
BACKGROUND BRIEFING.
Yo FILEL 201°284032 E2 THPDET.

/- APA LY

iclel SECRET

RECORD COPY Taare



ETESSe

T 816222

CITE LA/MLAMI 26564
TO’ DIRECTUR.
A REAM

ode FOI/MIAML ASKS FOR CONFIRMATION OF.

PAGE 01-01,
TORSC619C62 APR 76

TN 881286

LMIM 24564

Po SECRET bo1es32 APR 76 STAFF

Viel

AFFILIATION OF CULA% EXILES ROLANDO “0 T. a 4
L904

j
4

BE EX°QKHERALD. -
2. FILE DEFER,

i

Dute Br v9

ns ay tarnatinae ege t

€2, IMPDET,

SECRET

tous BKHERALD
4Ysit
HERNANDEZ AND

BOTH ARE UNDER

: b INCLUDING POSSIBLE :
as

EXPLOSIVE/DEMULITIGN THAJNING INVOLVED.
INVESTIGATION 6GR RECENT BOMBINGS MIAM] AREA AND BOTH CLATH

b64n76
2201 - LP YP



‘Septantag in late 1960. Subject was a participant in the

. to the Departzent of State and to the Urited States Secre’

 Ginessgs01708-76> .

Sm DB pe

Director
Federal Bureau of Investization
ATTH: Intelligeace Division.

FROM: Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT: © ROLMIDO OTERO, Nernandez
ARAL OTFPO, Rolando
ROLANDO, Papillon

1. Reference is nade to your Feevest dated § Hay 1976
“for information reperding Subject's employsent with this
Eales and hie ‘énvolvement with the 2ay of Pigs invasion.

2. This Agency had an operational interest in Subject

Bay of Pigs invasion and in preparation for this invasion,: « -

received commando-type training. Association and contact °
with Subject by this Agency was terminated in late 1962. 4.
For your information, the contents of this parafraph was :
forwarded to our field station in Miani, Florida, - Tn wort,
1976 for passage to representatives of your Rureau in Marto.

3. For additional information concerning Subject
which may not be known to your Bureaa, you are referred

Service. :
=—.
nc]. 1 name check

IP/EIS: JE/R Martin/dm
BASED ON: DIRECTOR 835967 dated 8 April 1976
FILE IN-.: 201- 264811 -


fee

_ OUTGOING -MESSAGE :
i fe!

roma conten van ome
tee

ns ee
onr oO oO oO a a

CU teeres

one menenes toreeans meee

SECRET
eateas tana caren owe
STAFF Are 4 sf OSG, : asodze
conr:( AD ant: mu [Ay /o? href 984 H oa seen lf
é AS ig Piles. D mare PER
ae 2
TOS IMMEDIATE SANTIAGO.OB INFO CARACASs SANTO DORINGOs

SAN JOSE.¥

PUBARGAIN MHSPIKE ¥

REFS: A. SANTIAGO 34309 [IN 913868]
B. SANTIAGO 3414? IN 6535b9! ¥

PT Gor HAS BEEN ADVISED OF _OTERO'S ARREST BY DINA- FBI NOW

TRYING ARRANGE HIS EXTRADITION THROUGH LEGaTT.

Ae PLS ADVISE LEGATT NANE OF
CHILEAN SERVICE HOLDING OTERO SO EXTRADITION CAN BE REQUESTED. ¥

B- SANTIAGO! PLS ADVISE IDEN REF B OTERO IS FEDERAL @
IF OTERO RELEASED RCQUEST

FUGITIVE AND EXTRADITION BEING REQUESTED.
ADVANCE NOTICE HIS IMMEDIATE DESTINATION AND ONWARD TRAVEL FOR Fer"

HONITORING. ¥
@- FILE: 203-2848)3- E2 IMPDET.d

OPS/ITG -PAUL PLUNB
DATE: 7 MAY 3971 {TELECOORD} ©
bad C/LA/CAR/DR -DAN SMITH
int: {TELECOORD?
AC/LA/SB/CH 7 yey 7é

om 3073 C/LAPNC - T.DESHOND
{TELECOORDS

RSS: AC/LA/MRCAM ~J-BECKUITH
C7LA {TELECOORD}
caisson ore
narnopuction ay orued REGO RDG OME Ih premieres EG 2 IMPDET
cl BY: 938982



Nate ey a
be i - 7
io i
| "* IMMEDIATE TRACES from FBT 5 2 é S May 1976 p
H |
LQ |
Name: ROLANDO OTERO Hernandez - aka Rolando Oter, J ‘ie
_ Rolando Paptllon H
DPOB: April 18, 1943 iat { ‘ i
i SS Number: ‘ i
|
i Claimed CIA employment 1960 - 1962 re Bay of Pige as explorive ~ demolition :
i man and intelligence assistant. H
} i
| t
| |
i
‘Requesting any information i
‘ i
i es
| :
H ee
| . i
| |
i
a
“° i
o po
: : 5 |
aN \ i
| . VAS SY
cece VRE 8 AnD ES ene ene rp siren “meer renee

ie



isan

FRI DOCUMENT (CROSS-REFERENCE SHEET)

BATE: 25 MARCH 1976

CTASSIFICATION: NOT KNOWN

} SUBJECT: NOT KNOWN (RE CURAN EXILES TO ARRIVE
7 IN CARACAS BY JULY 75 TO EXPLORE THE
POSSIBILITY OF ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT

AGAINST CASTRO

Lyfee

(ROCUMENT AVAILABLE IN FILS 201-284498, charged
TO SA/D0/0)



i VULCUING, MeZoneE .
pote eo . Ee)
: oon etteeie
; OM BG oo i
P SECRET A
_ 4 Bois orcoa ame core nenante on renee coremsen ons
i STAFF : ca2143z © DIRECTOR 635907 i
| cow: LAS INFO: FILE “1? Lab 7 pale onscw an IP :
i Done re OORT
i Onn 2 Ul
Tot LA/NIANI-¥
“KMSTONE TRACE ¥
+ REP: LA/MTANY 2ushy [TN Bar26Es] ¥ es i
: 4+ FOLLOUING MAY BE PASSED TO PBI/MIANE:!

A- ROLANDO © TE RO HERNANDEZ AND

UERE BOTH RECRUITED BY OKHSZRALD IN

i LATE 2960 AND PARTICIPATED IN THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION. @KHERALD

CONTACT WITH THEM DROPPED IN LATE 2962. BOTH OTERO AND ‘d

RECEIVED | BKHERALD | SPONSORED COMMANDO. TYPE. TRAINING IN |

ipa os

joer 8. OTBERO Is IS SUBJECT OF NEMEROUS Fer REPORTS In 3975 £¢

: : _ AND 297b. AND SHOULD BE WELL KNOUN TO FOI/NIANI. ¥
: @- FILES 203-2844985 201-284813- £2 rnpoer. a

4

® FBI/MIAMI ASKED FOR CONFIRMATION OF FORMER HBKHERALD
AFFILIATION OF ABOVE CUBAN EXILES» INCLUDING POMSSIBLE
EXPLOSIVE/DEMOLITION TRAINING INVOLVED. BOTH ARE UNDER |
A INVESTIGATION FOR RECENT BOMBINGS MIANI AREA ane BOTH CLAING. :
: mo i

“BE EX~BKHERALD«

CROSS VILE COPY POR
201- 4

sen At “APRIL 2976 7 : 7
vome™p. BELLANY:CG’ .
“UNTT: LAZCAR/CART CALAsCY i

am 1497 ‘

& OBO? DEstROY
C/LAD DC/LASCAR
misono cemmmemsemme ee ene

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMBTED =F 2 IMPLET
2 Bee cL 872032933

ro


i

f P seeereeeeeeeteeeeeeea
a erTTer Me SEY SC) PAGE 61-01 IN 863843

TORI3920252 MAR 76 SAGO 33948

SECRET tyev12d MAR 76 STaFF

CITE SANTIAGO 33948 Hi
TO? PRIURITY DIRECTUR INFO LA/MIANTs CARACAS.

TRACE
A, ON 19 MAR SUBVECT OF 281-826416, WHO JS A STATION LIAISON
CONTACT. REQUESTED TRACES ON ORLANDO 0 T ERO. SUBYECT CLAIMED
y OTERO IS CUSAN MEMBER OF UNKNOKN MIAMI BASED EXILE ORGANIZATION
THAT HAS GEENINVOLVED IN BOMBING INCIDENTS IN MIAYI AREA AND OTERO
RUMORED [O HE IN CHILE. SPECIFICALLY WOULD LIKE PHYSICAL
DESCRIPTION: ALJASES, TYPE TRAVEL DOCUMENTS OTERO MIGHT BE USING:
DATA ON HIS CKGANJ ZATION AND NAMES ANY POTENTIAL CONTACTS IN CHILE.
STATION TRACES INCI CATE OTERO MAY BE f7w ROLANDO OTERO :
HERNANDEZ MENTIONED CARA 29129, NO TRACES ORLANDO.
2. INDEX OTERO. FILES 282°826416, €2 IMPDET. .

ae . ie : ye
| we SECRET
| . . :



DATE: 25 FEPRUARY 1976
CIASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: CUBAN NATIONAL, LIBERATION FROM! (FLNC)’

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)


OUTGOING | MESSAGE
~~

wencenran use a

Q o 0 t)

poets eae
STAFF 2300002 DIRECTOR | ieee 0 b2b?bS * 9
a a DISSEM oY,
cone: thas wor ms chelaw, chore Tey een :
c . 4 DO mrvere PER SoFP
: Owna @

TO! PRIORITY SANTIAGO INFO LA/MIAMIy CARACAS. ¥

A :
RYOAT MHSPIKE MHPROSE ¥ ; nerane
b+ REFS! As SANTIAGO 33948 [IN 863443] Bi
i Bs DIRECTOR Ob746 . | C/LA/SE
U/SB Sec'y

C. CARACAS 29049 JIN 6222001
De DIRECTOR BONS3L . ¥ .
L- NO IDENTIFIABLE TRACES ORLANDO OTERO. ¥
2. AGREE SUGJECT REF A INQUIRY MAY BE IDENTIFIABLE WITH ROLANDO —
" OTERO HERNANDEZ {202-284811} WHO SUBJECT REFS By Cx AND D HE DEPART-
; ‘ep SANTO DOMINGO 22 JANUARY 7b TRAVELLING ON U.S. PASSPORT NO~
AND PER REF C HE DEPARTED CARACAS -3 FEBRUARY 7b FOR SANTIAGO
a ABOARD IBERIA FLIGHT. “HOUEVER’ H@S HAS NO INFO ON WHAT DOCUMENTATION
HE USED ON CARACAS- SANTIAGO: LEG OF TRIP. OTERO BORN 18 APRIL 43 IN
MARIANAO, HAVANAy CUBAs AND “IS DESCRIBED PARA 2 REF C AS WHITES
FIVE FEET EIGHT INCHES TAtLs 150 POUNDS’ BROWN EVES’ BUSHY DARK BROWN
HAIR. PLS NOTE THAT UE RG PASS DEROGATORY INFO. ON OTERO RR
TO LIAISON CONTACTS SINCE HE REPORTEDLY U.S. CITIZEN. ¥
3. SHOULD ‘THE LIAISON CONTACT. ESTABLISH ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ

" oamt: 22° HARCH 197%
ong) UeAs CANTRELL

}

+
aad

‘

unite
on
. ene omess rosomare comes emannercaree comes
2 guanpearon, REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIDITED = & 2 = IMPDET.

Secret : cu ey; 038952

y
3



hs

IVS ranma meet care ree cmos oe

: : O wm ff :
AS IDENTICAL TO THE REF A INQUIRYs SUGGEST STATION DIRECT ANY FURTHER

DIRECTOR | fl
INFO: FILE F202 S

weseawemerarence menee

DISSEM are

OD minwense PER

* auferes FROM THEM RE OTERO TO APPROPRIATE EMBASSY OFFICER. YOU MAY
ALSO UTSH TO ADVISE LEGAL ATTACHE OF, REF A INQUIRY ON HIS NEXT TRIP
TO SANTIAGO, SINCE OTERO IS FEDERAL FUGITIVE. ¥

4 FILE? 201~-82b41b3 2013-26461). E2 INPDET.d

™~.

om 7h

Ban

ty
. On EL
Tees :

REPRODUCTIC YC ZR THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROM 6D
ee PE 2

SATE: 122 MARCH 1476
One YU.k. CANTRELL
wt: C/LA/SB/CH

OPS/ITG - OLIVER SILSBY
*  {TELECORD}

C/LA/NU = Ted. DESMOND
{TELECORD}
DC/LA/CARR~ U-L- SMITH
cme FELECORDD

ct BY:

IMPDET
018952

Se peieecrenmee rine




* ore ov IID ree ms
a
Remsowsuers nuter ne

yoenen (10,500 LPis: KO. 4

FILE, Vk, bod, Ps/ecz, 1P/A

seen

Wt 2
up, OPS/INTS, CI 4y

1689952 = 1a644 PAGE 02 IN 628992
‘ TORIN4721372 FEB 76 Cara 29119
SECRE Taperwee Fea 76 INTEL TDFIRDG-315/01b4-7%
HVC~7328

CITE CARACAS 29119

TO1 IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO SANTIAGO» BRASILIA» RIO DE JANEIRO-
SAN JOSE, GUATEMALA CITY, .

INTEL VHLOFTY
SUPDATAs #RWAHOO FOR SOURCE DESCRIPTION. hogar. a
‘Se
WKSCARLET#S (SEE CARACAS 2910900" OD OBJECTIVE? Jie

NOT FOR PASSAGE LIAISON, INDEXt PASCAL, CASTROe :
OTERO, BOSCH, FILE DEFERRED. CL, BY e59820-
FILED s 4721002 ‘

{IID COMMENT: LA DIVISION REPORTS OFFICER CHANGED BYLINE BY DELETING: "HIS H
RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.” AND INSERTION OF ANOTHER i
RELIABILITY STATEMENTS HE ALSO DELETED FROM :
PARA 2 AND INSERTION OF “ANOTHER OTHER” THERE. LIFTER CABLE SENT.} :

=“ =

G- ‘i cesitea - zB

=
SECRET = YWYE-7P2R

a



: ae rome AN : : oN
Ca SECRET (When Pied to) A

: i @PRLOKLTY
Intelligence Information Cabl .

WARNING NOTICE IN 826592
SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
BIATE/ind JCS/ME (01a) CIAPNMEE WO NIA TREAS NEC,
N Rayeals S603 eer Sets ne Petals 400 MIO CRS PACE 1 OF2 PAGES
: outetonate Ge Ree AT BES eosscnd Daten Boa’ Rnccous Betattanteche 10: HAEI Bemweinn
| FURTHER DISSEMINATION ANO USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF fIPORT,

1 : = TRIS 1S AN INFORMATION REFORT, NOT ANALY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE ae
: Se aaa ca Nash ed a elton
SECRET CITE TORR DQ-315/O1a~7

-~ DIST? FEBRIURY Vifo
SITIVE INTELLIGENCE

REPORT CLASS S & C 8 E TeeHARNING NOTICE@
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED@=NOT RELEASEABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALSo

NOT RELEASEABLE 10 CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACT OR/CONSULT ANTS

i COUNTRYS VENEZUVELA/CHILE

: DOL 3 16 FEBRUARY 1976

: SusyecT: POSSIGLE ATTEMPT ON THE LIFE OF A RELATIVE OF FORMER

H PRESIDENT SALVADOR ALLENDE

aca 1 VENEZUELA, CARACAS (17 FEBRUARY 1976) FIELD NO, HVC-7328

SOURCE 1
i ! » [we ts” A Usudicy “RELIABLE source.” ~~

an “ANT Le CUBAN GOVERNMENT EXILES ARE CURRENTLY IN CARACAS,

VENEZUELA, WITH THE INTENTION OF KILLING Luis ANDRES PASCAL

ALLENDE» A RELATIVE OF FORMER CHILEAN PRESIDENT SALVADOR H
ALLENDE, (SOURCE COMMENT! PASCAL'S EXACT CONNECTION WITH
SALVADOR ALLENDE OR HIS CURRENT ACTIVITIES EN CARACAS ARE UNKNGN.)

2. THE ATTEMPT AGAINST PASCAL IS TO BE CARRIED OUT BY -
fie a ROLANDO 0 T E R 0 HERNANDEZ 4ND OTHER MEMBERS OF
| CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, ALTHOUGH IT IS UNCLEAR AS TO WHETHER
-QTERO KAS ACTUALLY ARRIVED IN CARACAS, HE IS EXPECTED 70 BE IN
CARACAS BY THE EVENING OF 17 FEBRUARY 1976
SECRET

ae

ey


Sey s007 enews ge -

ww 626992
TorR DB-31S/0Ustb- Ae

a : WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOVTRES AND METHODS INVOLVED. PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

SECRET FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
. CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

3, THE CUBAN EXILES CLAIM TO BE WORKING UNDER THE SPONSORSHIP
OF THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT, FURTHERMORE. THE ATTEMPT AGAINST
PASCAL IS BEING CARRIED Gut BY THE CUBANS IN RETURN FOR UNSPECI~

CTS PSP p ER dE

FIED ALD GIVEN EXILES Suts AS ORLANDO BOSCH

AVILA. (CFIELO COMMENTS FOR AN EARLIER REPORT INDICATING THAT
THE CHILEAN NATIONAL INTEQKEGENCE DIRECTORATE (DENA) IS SUPPORTING
THE LATIN AMERICAN ANTICGSMUNIST REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL (CRAL)+

oe

_ A CUBAN EXILE GROUP LED BY BOSCH, SEE HVC"7289, FIR“311/01933~75

OF LATE DECEMBER 1975, a
4, FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY. DEFATT, SECRET SERVICE AT CARACAS!

SENT TO SANTIAGOs BRASILIA> RIO DE JANEIROs SAN : E

JOSE, GUATEMALA CITY.

‘

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVE2=*NOT RELEASEABLE T3 FOREIGN NATIONALS=~
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTERS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS, e
CLASSIFIED BY aecoRDED REPSATING OFFICER, EXEMPT FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.0. 11652 EXEMPTION CaTeGory 5BC2).

IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE QF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION,

ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TO: STATE, DIA, ARMY, NAVY, AIR, JCS. NSAs SUS. SS/1L
FRE. CLA/OPSCEN.

REPORT CLASS S E CR E TeeKARNING NOTICE*SENSITIVE INGELLIGENCE :



“ OUTGOIN“" N“SSAGE =:
39.4 |

Sonat Comren use amy
a

eee ete
onF O° - 0 a Qa oO 0 i)

SECRET

ae 122302 brnecroy nuLaan
LAIS mo: rue oPslin7 Seve] 6NN0 0 pssen ori
cAslt6s ili Doo pooko ow025

7

TO: SANTIAGO INFO CARACAS.¥

VULOFTY ¥
REFS: A. DIRECTOR 603689
G. DIRECTOR BO4S31L {BEING RELAYED SANTIAGO}

Ce CAR IEAS 2 29049 BLIN a2zeaa] v cs
1. vrcupkassduser's SOUTH AMERICAN TRAVEL CITED REF A AND

SECRET SERVICE Gurerest IN WHEREABOUTS OF ROLANDO 0 TER O

HERNANDEZ SUGGEST SUBSTANCE REF B AND C BE GROUGHT TO EMBASSY
ATTENTION FOR SUCH ACTION THEY DEEN APPROPRIATE. FYI: SANTIAGO
EMBASSY WAS INFO ADDRESSE ON CARACAS LIMDIS ENTEL 3550 DATED 9 FEB
WHICH STATES OTERO DEPARTED FOR SANTIAGO BY AIR ON 3 FEB 7bo¥

@. THIS IS PRIMARILY FBI/STATE MATTER AND ACCORDING FBI OTERO
IS NATURALIZED U-S. CITIZEN. HOWEVER, PER REF As SHOULD, ENFO RE
OTERO COME TO STATION'S ATTENTION, ESPECIALLY ANY INDICATION HE MAY
TRAVEL TO CITIES LISTED ON KISSINGER INTINERARY, NOTIFY Hes AND

APPROPRIATE STATION BY PRIORITY CABLE-Y

3. FILE: 202-204832. 2 INPDET.d ae
; 0 he BPE
“
: 7 VAP
omit
ume UATSE7ECH y fede ke Po—
Kk Misutlly oeshnecand cory] Loh
Ae Sere Oe
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE'S PRONIGITED 2 IMPDEY

cL BY: 938952

SECRET


—AnvANcE cory tapveocearten.. Aa

~ :
came nc omen er [ren LAE

rete? oeG ell a

Rernooucrion
tavine orrice

PERBON UNIT NO!

ACTION UNIT
AF, FILE va

wpa a,

sez fase

mete c 7
fs etree pve bird-&

pp tenes ne ee ee

pease D208 26> 9S 3

T 6751s EL ASEd pace oi1-01 : "IN 623200
TORtII15192 FEB 76 Soom 4371419

SECA ET 124d002 Feu 76 STAFF
CLTE SANTO DOMINGO’ 17219
TOL PRIORITY DIRECTOR, SANTIAGL INFC CARACAS,
REFS! Ay CAmACAS 29049 CV EZR20O)
B. BIRECTOR 04531,
Ls EMPYREX REPORTS raat Roy ANDO 0 T € A O HERNANDEZ»
| BORN 18 APRIL 1943, TKAVELLING ON UsS. PASSPORT NUMBER

Fe796556+ DEPARTED SANTO DOMINGO 22 JANUARY ON VASA FLIGHT
797. E

2. Fleet 602-0264611, 22-be7, 220-6°495. EZ IMPDET,

nth Wh
ca i oleae

p22-F-7

penearbemanes am



“@ TE RO HERNANDEZ, AS REQUESTED BY YOUR SERVICE IN A TELEPHONE

LAULYM mee 2”

‘OUTGOING “MESSAGE / ;
or er ar ar oer oer 0. 4
oe - sence
: E 43 AL 60 r i
conr: Cent] me: me cf Chaswhe phase eee ee
Clors hited. los : mre 2S]

TO? PRIORITY SECRET SERVICE//INTELLIGENCE DIVISTON.Y a i !
S € CRE T--UARNING NOTICE © SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLVED=-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS.¥ :
SUBJECT: Soranno OTERO HERNANDEZ +¥

TR 6/20,02N-76-V)
3. THIS AGENCY QUERIED THE APPROPRIATE REPRESENTATIVES IN

CARACAS AND SANTO DOMINGO REGARDING THE UHEREABOUTS OF ROLANDO

CONVERSATION ON b FEBRUARY 197b- OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN CARACAS
RESPONDED THAT ACCORDING 10 A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE OTERO
SAS DESEDD EXPELLED FROM VENEZUELA TO SANTIAGO. CHILE. ON

3 FEBRUARY 1S7?b. xT rs POSSIGLE THAT THE FEDERAL ‘BUREAU OF OB

INVESTIGATION HAS ADDITIONAL IWFORMATION ON SUBJECT~¥
2- CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXENPT FROM sary

GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E-G88#0. LUbS2. EXEMPTION

- CATEGORY SB {2}- TNPOSSTELE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC

a
° ;
;

DECLASSIF.
oare: a $ : 4
ome: Jo1~ ASY.8u :
errs wtb ie
ot: A

IT HE A Ae”

a : — pr oraroeete

eee REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN IME ISSUING OFFICE iS PROMIBITED & 2 IMPDET
SECRET Qidoo-¢-y7s4 D22-9-# cu BY: C129393



OUTSOING MESSAGE

See ee ees

Bene cesn ete ORS

= ee ne :
o o a0 08, 0 @ - : 2 2
7 : .
Bees te met the : neem
CIA: f
pan iro eae 7 OD mow otssem Ove
* i 7 ; D sonore
Bcc a : goed O mnenro PLR
: : : Sree emacs Denn 8
BASED ON? CARACAS 25049--{IN 5622200} 8210 FEB 7b ; i
: DIRECTOR 6OYS32. 9 FCO 7b

PROJECT? BXMAYOR CURSCARLET-9)

4 OBURCTIVE: JU

CABLE SEC: PLS MAKE COPIES OF THIS CABLE AVAILABLE TO IP/AN
FOR 203-284G22, EARESTE 200-b-49S4 22-9-8

* copmomunad onmeene,
RePRODUCT_ “ev OTE THAN THE ssuinocorri

aro, ney $3 lsimpoer
eater

012933"

{
|
[
\
| ae 2 7
ek Ae |
ea
Bd i
: a Fhe ao Com ie ee i
7 Laat C/LA/NU/V ROBERT Ws ANDREWS SDRAFT?
N Pas) i : f
i par ee FEBRUARY 397m
; ORI GERT DUGGA
gn: wrt CACCAR
exte 1244 ie
| Ge an AEE
| 768SSLSN perp Peery euare SD
| : 0S enh armateenese

SECRET



Aenea sory Gauee worehs oy

ARIS z} Ant, wsliToS,

en ay
came one ores 0» 2D pen Ae 2

ill Tica

remo UNIT RONTIEG,

meets 7) :
es

00/20, v0 2 eee

To73e08Efazoi PAGE B1-0d iN 222220
TOR:1021262 FEB 76 CaRe cetay

SECRET 1021102 FEB 76 STAFF

CITE CARAGAS 29249 ‘

101 PRIORITY DIRECTOR [NFO PRIORITY“SANTO DOMINGO) SANTIAGO’
VaLOFTY :

REF! DIRECTOR 894531 (NOT SENT SANTIAGO)

2, ACCORDING WKSCARLET#9 ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ WAS
EVICTED FROM VENEZUELA TO SANTIAGO ON 3 FEB 76, LEGATT CARACAS
COMMENTS THAT OTERO ARRIVED VENEZUELA FROM DOMREP 22 VAN 76, '
WAS “ALLOWED TO LEAVE" VS. “EVICTED" ABOARD IBERIA FLIGHT TO :
SANTIAGO, AND IT DOUBTFUL HE CAN BE GOTTEN OuT OF CHILE.

2. FILE! 20190284611» 22-8-7+ 200060495, E20 IMDPET.

D-22-%-7
Diweo- 6495/4 secret dr oastaul
Se sieeai | aia RECORD COPY | ees

La



SD Ra-8-7

SD- doe -6-49S/14 RECORD COPY Q ALU

ouTGOIN.
ne Mamsheenmamuar ony

onr oO t) o 0 ti) 0

SECRET
Sa i lim ign = ee
STAFF o923aaz DIRECTOR 604533

coms (AIS wor ma Stag SECURY esukeoa een

Rites TEA) ado Condes ited, tle
Q90lb0 G
TO: PRIORITY BCARACAS, SANTO DONINGO.¥ z

VULOFTY ¥ :
REFS! As DIRECTOR 803889 |]
B. DIRECTOR 70S0SS Ie}

C. DIRECTOR 704047 Leesa] ¥
2. FOLLOWING ZS PER SANTO DOMINGO EMBTEL 325. 22 JAN ?bt
WARRANT HFOR ARREST OF ROLANDO 0 TE RO HERNANDEZ {201-2848133
_ ISSUED MID-JAN 7& FOR FIVE PIPEBONB EXPLOSIONS WHICH TOOK PLACE 1"
MIAMI 4 DEC 78. MIAMI FBI SOURCES CLAINED SUBJ FLEW TO DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC 4 JAN 7b+ AND ON 22 JAN 7b PROMINENT DOMINICAN NEWSPAPER
STATED OTERO HAD BEEN ARRESTED 37 JAN ON CHARGE OF VIOLATING
PROHIBITION. AGAINST HIS ENTRY INTO DOM REP. IN CONVERSATIONS UITH
FBI AND US ENG CONSULAR OFFICER, DOMINICAN POLICE OFFICIALS
INDICATED DISPOSITION TO EXPEL HIM FROM COUNTRY AND TO DETAIN HIM
UNTIL THIS WAS ARRANGED- US ENB CHARGE INFORMED APPROPRIATE
DOMINICAN OFFICIALS {FOR PASSAGE OF INFO TO PRESIDENT BALAGUER} OF
US INTEREST IN OTEROM'S RETURN TO US TO FACE CHASRGES AGAINST HIN.

“HOWEVER. POLICE CHIEF INFORMED CONSUL GENERAL THAT HE HAD ORDERS

para:
one:
bail

Fol-O 284 Si

snsone orcas
eusecsen REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROWIDITIO «= 2 © IMPDET
CRs

ererare



eects iE ~

ees
2

oe mew
one oO 0 0 a o o 0

SECRET 7
(peonses meme neatoe core net omens on cere meccnreseses
STAPF DIRECTOR
conn: two: Fits ‘ irate caer
: ae :
_.Gol(S31 0 as ome

Denn &
79 RELEASE OTERO AT NOON ON 20 JAN. US EMB REPORTED THAT AS OF #2

GAN IT HOT CLEAR WHERE OTERO LOCATED. ONE SOURCE REPORTEDLY TOLD
#IAMT HERALD THAT OTERO HAD Lert THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. BUT AIANT
HERALD CORRESPONDENT WHO AT THAT TIME {22 JAN} IN SANTO DOMINGO
TOLD CONGEN HE HAD DRINKS WITH OTERO THE NIGHT BEFORE. No INFO SINCE
THAT TINE ON OTERO'S WHEREABOUTS. ¥

: 2- BECAUSE OF REF B AND C INFO RE OTERO'S ACTIVITIES IN
CARACAS, THERE POSSIBILITY HE MAY BE IN VENEZUELA AGAIN. IN Liut
OF REF As PARA TWO. AND AT REQUEST OF SECRET SERVICE. REQUEST
APDRESSEES ATTEMPT TO FIND OUT IF OTERO IS IN EITHER COUNTRY. HOS
_ ILt INFORM SECRET SERVICE or RESULTS. OTERO DESCRIBED AS WHITES
FIVE FEET EIGHT INCHES TALL’ 350 POUNDS’ BUSHY DARK BROWN HAIRS

BROUN EYES. ¥ -
3. FILE! 203-28483%. 22-8-7. 200-b-495. E2sIMPDET.A

FBI INFO ON ROLANDO OTERO WHO BELIEVED SENT TO VENEZUELA ON
MISSION AGAINST CUBAN DIPLOMATIC CORPS THERE

SZADDITIONAL FBI INFO ON OTERO
3BEKISSINGER'S LA ITINERARY. PLS ADVISE OF ANY SUBVERSIVE O®

DANGEROUS PERSONS IN COUNTRIES TO BE VISITED |

ous: 4 FEB 7b
ems: K. BLEVIN.
out: LA/CAR/DRH«

eT:
Lele, '
C/LA
ancora papaoouctid ay odin THAN THE SUERs Chrys pAOh_aTse~" 22" IMPOET

SECRET : . cu BY: gxaaaa



SE rere tenner ere I mew pnt -ae ee a

110 serene emmy

: t
MM AVEMEACSY SALTO LOMINO 425 :
a z 22 JANUARY 1976 on
3 CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL F
3 E OF ROLANDO Bo
4 > D IN THE U.S, i is
FED BUILDING f ;
é
a :
>
,



DATE: 16 JANUARY 1976
CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ

SUBJECT:


CUTCORG

Sianan CLITA SANE

o a (i) a

f
“

CRE Y

menenre moreno ene Ma senutareemneeowaves +

705055
tnoes O1SSCMUvr

STAFF
cone: Cam re) NFO: (ae y wpe =§ ro mvee
pie Zz O nvvevso PER
oO

pan 8

TO: CARACAS INFO SANTO soutngo WV

HHSPLKE ¥ i!

REF: DIRECTOR 70404? Y .
Xe SOURCE OF REF FURNISHED FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL INFO 3 sune”

25: ACCORDING TO ROLANDO. oTERO IS.

IN CARACAS AS A "PATHFINDER™ OR ADVANCE HAN FOR GROUP OF CUBAN ExILes
WHO ARE TO ARRIVE IN CARACAS BY JULY 1975 TO EXPLORE. POSSIBILITY OF
AN ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT AGAINST FIDEL CASTRO “Ruz WHO IS Ex-
PECTED TO BE-IN CARACAS FOR A CONFERENCE OF LATOIN AMERICA HEADS: OF
STATE IN JULY 197S. THIS PLAN MAY BE A JOINT EFFORT BY MENBERS OF
FLNCs ACCION CUBANA {ANTI-CASTRO ORG OF CUBAN EXILES LED BY ORLANDO
8 0.S CBHs CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST. BHO IS PAROLE VIOLUATOR BELIEVED ©
TO GE IN HIDING IN SOUTH AMERICA}, AMD BRIDGADE 2506 {ORGANIZATION OF

" BAY OF PIGS VETERANS) WITH UHOR IS FRIENDLY. OTERO IS

TRYING TO OBTAIN INFO REGARDING FIGDEL CASTRO'S VISIT AND SECURITY
MEASURES PLANHED TO PROTECT HIN. OTERD RECENTLY SPENT SEVERAL DAYS
IN COLOMBIA BEFORE RETURNING TO VENEZUELA WHERE HE IS BEING CLOSELY
BATCHED BY VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES SUNDER DIRECTION OF ORLANDO

oare: .
CROSS FILE CC.

on : pL).

en.

Tt DESTROY

coosemunes evecaes evmannesene senees
REPROOUCTION AY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIAITEO = 2 IMPDET

i)

sesame ormcee

err nes.



ze
if
y

sree enor ene rene nents

DIRECTOR’ | :
= a ae Dome Bane:
ae — FOS0S5 Date a
i OU wrnee ?

G AMR C I A VASQUEZ, NINISTER-COUNSELOR OF FOREIGN MINISTRY {SIC}
WHO HAS BEEN INFORNED BY SOURCE OF OTCRO'S ALLEGED MISSION. ¥
2. FILE 49-300-eb, 2021-26461). Ea, IMPDET. A

ADDITIONAL INFO ON ROLANDO OTERO AND HIS ACTIVITIES.

“ATE JUNE ‘ia7s\

tees ELISABETIERATTER/AvD Ath “NTN

out:
scene
"C he sii a SO SPERA
galt PSON x
MEE: see y OPS/IT SOG C/LALCAR
: b cerken game onene OT aaa een
eomesnice aenoo 49. oniea THAN TE HSSHNCLORnBES Og 2 POET

aoe pee siamo

fame Peseta

Ct BY? arose



CALE FROM DIRECTOR, FRI

PATE: 4 JUNE 1975
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ANTI-CASTEO ACTIVITIES
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN

TS vteedtda

note

i
id
4
@

4
j



he

Corr errr)

asreeananeune motaten eae me we

pled vasop DIRECTOR 70W0W?
-eonr: £770 amro: rie , can/s 70, oPY 176s) 4 a cade DISSEM av:
es pananre PER
one

70 CARACAS INFO SANTO DOMINGO.Y : crane

Ls FOLLOWING RECEIVED FROM RELIABLE SOURCE OF FBI, MIANT:
ROLANDO 0 TE RO {20L~284811} {BORN 16 APRHIL 41. MARTANAOs HAVANA» :
CUBA}y BAY OF PIGS VETERANy NATURALIZED U-S- CITIZEN LIVING MIAMI,
MEMBER OF NIANE PARACHUTING GROUP KNOWN AS "GOLDEN FALCONS@=COMPRISED
MAINLY OF CUBAN EXILES--LED BY CUBAN EXILE NAMED FRANK ¢ ASTR Oy ;
A LEADER OF THE FRENTE DE LIBERACION NACIONAL DE CUBA {FLNC}> WHO
CURRENTLY LIVING IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, VISITED FRANK CASTRO IN
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FOR TUO DAYS IN EARLY MAY 7S- CASTRO GAVE OTERO
9250 AND TOLD HIM TO CONTACT RUBEN M ABR TIN E Zy A CUBAN LIVING
IN CARACAS, WHOM OTERO HAD NEVER NET. OTERO WENT TO CARACAS WHERE
MARTINEZ PROVIDED HIN WITH A ROOM AT CAPRI HOTEL AND PROMISED To
ARRANGE FOR AN EXTENSION OF OTERO*S VISA AND FOR PAPERS TO ENABLE
OTERO OBTAIN JOB IN CARACAS. THRU INQUIRIES, OTERO LEARNED THAT THO
CUBAN CONNO TECHNICIANS» LIVING AT TAMPA HOTEL INM -CARACAS, WERE
LOOKING FOR AN APPROPRIATE LOCATION FOR CUBAN EMBASSY TO BE ESTABEHAS-
BLISHED. OTERO FIRST CLAIMED THAT WHILE IN DOMINICAN REPUBLICS HE
DID NOT SEE HUMBERTO t © PE Zs JR.» BUT LATER ADMITTED LOPEZ WAS

OATEr

omc:
unt - CROSS FILE Core TOR
ore. :

en scene eomnene ecosomsree oomersee urmewrearana coms
haspoearon REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN [HE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO = & 2 impoeT

SECRET ct BY gioase



SECRET

v

rere)
2

onF oa a “o 0 9 oO 9

SECRET .
Prrsirieeelanaey peer a pe Pibasipees OD
STAFF DIRECTOR
Domes oisaem ort
conr: miro: res i Hest :
EVOH4OWE oo see ree

THERE. LOPEZ. ‘A LEADER OF BFLNCs IS A BFEDERAL BOND peFaut FUGITIVE
AFTER CONVICTION OF VIOLATION OF FEDERAL FIREARMS LAUS AND :
JUMPED BOND AFTER CONVICTION IN A MIAMI COURT ON CHARGES STEMMING FROM
AN ACCIDENTAL BOMBING IN MARCH 75 waTCH SERIOUSLY INJURED LOPEZ AND

AN ASSOCIATE. ON 26 MAY 25, LOPEZ ESTRADA {FNU}s FORMER ROON-
MATE OF OTERO IN MIAMI SAID OTERO WAS IN CARACAS FOR AN "ACTION"

AND WOULD BE JOINED THERE SHORTLY BY HUMBERTO LOPEZ, JR- ON SANE

DATE, CIRO OR IZON DO» WHO LIVED UITH OTERO UNTIL OTERO LEFT

FOR DOMINICAN REPUBLICs SAID THAT OTERO HAD BEEN SENT 70 CARACAS BY
FRANK CASTRO AND WAS GOING TO "GET IN TROUBLE DOWN THERE-" BASED ON
ABOVE, SOURCE BELIEVES OTERO'S MISSION IN CARACAS MAY BE BOMBING
ATTEMPT OR ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT AGAIBANST CUBAN DIPLOMATIC corps
MEMBERS IN CARACAS. SOURCE ALSO BELIEVES LOPEZ ESTRADA SBAHD

ORIZONDO NOT INVOLVED IN ALLEGED PLOT. ¥ US
2 Lead LEGAL open IN CARACAS HAS ABOVE poaidee BHICH SPAFEON
MAY eat DISCUSS WITH Tang : é

B- FILE? 159-300-261 202-284813- E2 INPDET«d SL 8» Hat

‘OATE: 4
4 JUNE 1975 . .
Que: ELISABETH L. VETTER/HVD LA/NU - ca
LA/CAR/DRW ;
ALFONSO SPERA

ou ash i | LA/COG
c/a Ops/IT6 C/LA/CAR
oaseme Ormeee Copmometne OFrAns mentee eres Coen :
Ccasetesticat! REPRODUCTION BF bine} THAN JHE ISSUING OfFILE IS dRomBITCO = gg 2 IMPDET
:

cab aen ae fae ; CL BY: giguan

\


H .
i
}
a
i
,
i
i CARLE FKOM DIRECTOR,

DATE: 31 MAY 1975

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SURTECT: ANTE-CASTHO ACTIVITIES



Poe indwmore Lno wniruccy PaALsirried
(OR CONCLAUING A MATERIAL PACT.

NO OBJECTION TO
ue dS PEATION ANDIOR
BEDASSEATON NOS



rr

* [iar RA ORATEND Tasting fosiar Waa Lily Calite—..

POEPAR _..MT-a: STATE
roncion SRTEE Or we unirea stares o7 AUERICA

VISA ACTION REQUEST

. x Recommended
C1 Security - 2tztanzer CJ Recommended by

. S lod
Cl otner - 21210) C1 Spbmitted at request

; DATE OF BIT ae a
wa april lef lid
F-PRtSOHT ADORE: Ssacusuanaassa

ite Se bac soap vd, Los Angoles 61, Calif,

. 4
es . =] TP wasting sthtus— TH AbiBl EIS TRATION WO”
married
"COANE i TRU ACTA TERT TTS _

‘eetronte Assostler = Fackard Pell : Activate vorp. 12333 He Chympie itvd., Los A

PASSPORT HO. 1ee__pegalar
tssuco ey ate__.
Nam! LC RPSOSEDT NAME (incluae matden namie)
de farpandas, Jessica Rinehart
aot Stra 1 Te ance wddresvex, citlen
erase Angeles, cal

Sines Hitas *

NI 2S Upticlerfers
FILE IN 201--29¢8H}

for Kame check only, forward original ond 6 copies to SY. (Compivte (tera 1 through 18 ont?
For Chine background check, forward origins! and $ copy to SY. Aftech photo with silane name In



an ppp FOR RELEASE 1S
GIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PRUGRAI

kins ae

“RE

1 cm

QUEST FOR GREFM LIST
NAME CHESKN® 130946

tt a5 Ot

cf, FLD

Loa wan PUNE OF BIOTA

16 April 1941, Mariano, Cuba son

peri
Cul

OFFICE OFS
ROOM, BTL

~ yi ATiOW
S. PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCAT IO} Tateisiba

Te Po
O rist
© aootri
cue

‘ST SRCUPAT TONAL SPECIALTIES, COUCATION
38, INTERE

F__ Past ACTIVITIES IMCLUDING MILITARY SUAVICE

© tsetows
O ortaar

CeIGINATING oF ICTR
A. AMORI
teuatoa THW/Dps 88
on OO 12
‘76L6

REQUEST (CHECK Car
TIME SUBMITTED:

OAL DATA

X FOR CURRENT

‘st IW SuBJeCT (CHrce ont)
UGE OR CE ACTIVITY

FOMAL CLEARANCE

© ome

tocat

Tow

BOTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) = ADD EXTRA SHEETS WHEW NEEOLD

S.RESCHIPTION

oa i) rn 3) a 2) CT)

YO, SPOUSE CIF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN MAME)

eR) (race) (ormee)

TH, CTW MINECRS OF WOEDIATE FAMILY ABD ASSOCIATES

12. UNFORMATION PEGUIRED (ce rae ‘SPECIFICALLY. Gent Ray TERNS SUCH AS “DEROGATORY Mal

T FULLY MEET REQUIREMENT:

V RCSULT Im A SEARCH TWAT DOES

AO -P PUP LS -

SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D.
” SE

ANSERT CARBON; FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

SEE CSI $O-7

[lee


i SECRET

16 Tyk

“bm ]

FROM: FI/0

<

sas
8, (] Ste vase ree on suestct im F I/D MlocaarHiC FILES,

8, (OTT) 4 mewomanoun 4s artacnen HLRETQ,

WITH THE LIMITED HOLNTHFICATION PROVIDED IM THE REQULST, 1/0 1S UNABLE TO
DETERMINE WHETHER THERE 15 INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

except
DORE] F170 mas no ramcRKNT INFORMATION ON SUBIECT, IF IAFORMATIGN ABOUT THE
SUBJECT APPLARS AT A LATER CATL, IT WILL BE REPORTED TO YoU AS IT BECOMES,

avaruaie,

CH

CG. (TT) we suasect oF THis RCQUEST 1S APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

Previous Green List from WH/i, 21 Sep 60, op, OL #104574, AR

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE .

WINCH THE SUBJECT 1S NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHECT, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION
WOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SCAT TO FI/D,

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AMD SCRD TO FI/O THE SHELTS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE KO
LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO OCMAMD A CORTIMUING MAME CHECK. PLCASE 0 NOT THE UP FI/O'S
FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS OT REQUIFCD,

we Peele eee te else
OFFICE OEStGnaToR

ROOM, BUILDING

Btusioe

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST
SECRET


ro

7 SECRET

To: Al Amort

FROM: F I/D

:
sat
a SEE DOSSIER OM SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES,

CTT) 4 mcmowanpun 1s arracnen uieera,

WITH THE LEMITED HOENCHERCATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, 1/0 15 UNABLE TO
DETERMINE WHETHER THERE 1S IMFORRATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR KOT,
except

0. CORTE] F170 mas no PRRDERAME INFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF INFORMATION AnUT THE
SUBJECT APPEARS AT A LATER DATE, IT WILL BC REPORTED TO YOU-AS IT HECOMES

AVAILABLE,

&

ft. (UT) He sunsect oF THis REQUEST 18 APPAREATLY THE SUUJECT OF THE FOLLOWINGS

Previous Green List from WH/4, 21 Sep 60, op, GL #104574, NR

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE .
WHEN THE SUBJECT 1S NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET. WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION
AOTICE COMPLETO, SHOULD BE SERI TO FI/D.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AMD SEND TO FI/D ME SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE HO
LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK. PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FI/O*S:
FACILITICS WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT 1S NOT REQUIPED,

a
OFFICE DESIGNATOR
ROOM, BUILDING.
Extexst08

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST
SECRET

