# 104-10052-10279

## Page 1

AAAAn

1104-10052-10279

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

IT ONCLASSIFIED

IMTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

c/sra/3

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

E0.99

24

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

5623

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

DATE

c/CI

2.

13 Dee. 1963 for po 4l

COMMENTS (Numbor

to whom.

eoch

comment to

show from whom

Dram a line across column after ouch comment.)

ittacizad for yoUr la?suation,

consent, and coaction 13 ta

the ropest do CPFLOOR COTASINg

OSHAID'S STAY 111 BACIEO NiS 1I-

cludinz vunarias of the tologiene

Intarceytao Tala Ily Do 252202 30

Y0X 52917858 N9n 372 DINCeSSNE

the 295t of the matarial and to thr

people massing the siral repart

In Vriting this Us, I have sade.

carian comanta and ladulgad 1n a

cantals assunt 62 12a1y310, boeause

1to ibera thougita do sy twa.

Feel Ired to nate Jour 01s a0z1J118

please volto then on tais drait and

134493 + 19 1111 05 1

drast to jon 13 30u Tart 15.

143 5954+ 495 55181A1 102 1119525)

20e BalT and man not usant te ta

nasd outalda abe agency.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

TE USE PREVIOU

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERMAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SZORET

We Discover IDe OStALD in bexico City

CIA did produce one very sigaificant piece of inforustion on Leo

OSWALD before he shot Iresident Kennedy. On 1 Detober 1963, our lexico

City Station interceptas a telepaone call Lee OSWALD made iron someplace

1n Nexico CIty to the Soviet Imbasay there, using his ana inso. Speaking

broken Russian and using bia true base, OSWALD was talkla, to the Babassy

Guard, O3Ys0107, vao alten answers the phone. DilALD said be baù visited

the inbassy the urevious Saturday (28 Septenber 1953) sad spolcos to a

consul wasse ramo he bad forgotten, and sho had promiseu to send & telo-

gran for him to hashinston. Fe raated to knos iI there vere "anyühtni

Dewl."

The quard said 18 the consul waa dars it was (Telerly Madutrovich)

KOSTIROY. The 5uar3 checked tith soreone elso and said that the cessage

had zone out bat no ansver lad been receited. le tren hung up.

"his plece of Inforation zas produced iron a talephono tap center

which se operate Jointly with the offica os the Fresident of Hexdco. It

---

## Page 3

14-00000

It highly secrot aud not krown to Mexican security and law enforcement

ofilcials, who have their om centor. Our joint center produces great

masses of telephone intercests which are trangeribed and reviered by our

mall staff in lexico City. By 9 October, the OSHAiD telephone conversa-

¿ion of 1 October had been transcribed and a suomary of 1t cabled to

Washingion. The sane Lee OSHAlD meant nothing special to our bladeo

City Statios, but in their report they did judge him to be an American

cale.

The cabled repost vas recalved in Hasington on 9 October ard checked

In our files, there it was imedlately coted tont the lee OSWALD pboning

the sovlet Elbassy in Mexico Clty was probably the Lee DElAID wao baa

defected to the Soviet Union In 1959 and returred to the USA 1n 1962.

10 October 1563, the day after the report fron lexico CIty, CIA Headguarters

sent out a cabled report about lee OStALD's phone call to the sortet

Embassy, the report went to the FBI, the Departzent of State (because

OSHALD Fas a US citizen), and to the lavy Denurtisent (because be les &

fomer Marine.) The cabled report to these agencies bighlighted the

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

11111b00d that the Lee OSHALD mentioced vas probably the former defector.

À copy of thia same cable was sellrored by hand to the Imalitation soi

laturalization service, with maich ne bave no cabla lint toe same dey

a long cable vent dui to taxico city Infoonias our Station oi the baci

ground di defector lee OSWALD and askins for nose information lur Station

vas lustructed to pass ito intoreation on the phone call to the dealco

City oifices of the FBI, tha Inbassy, the Hayal Attache, and the taigra-

tIon aId Fatializatlon Service Thla vas done.

In Ita 071812a1 rejart Of 9 October, lexico CIty hea sala it bad a

photograsa di an apparent Averican vale leaving the Soviet iabassy on

2. Cetober 1963, the day OSHALD phone there. A very sensitive operation

In bexdes City provides us with secretly taken photograpas of many but sot

211 rialtors to thé soriot subassy there, taion mita telephoto lenses.

Accozilnsty, so cabled the lary Dezartet oR 2ù October 1563 poets so

a photosraph of lea OSlALD pros his lariDo Corpa days so we coula coupare

photos. He had not receited this photograph by 22 Movesaber 1963, but In

any overit, It turned out that the ran photostaphed outside the soviet

3

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SEGIST

Jabasay ras not CENALD aNJIRy. As chance would have it, soDe of our

several photo obseration points in Mexico City had ever taken en ideal-

flable picture Of Lee OSKAID.

Our sexico CIty Station very often produces Information 11k9 tala

on US citizens contacting Sariet blos embassias in Mexico City. Frequently

the infomation ve set is extresoly Incrinisating, and on ase or two

occasions ve have even been ablo to approband and raturn to toe UsA

Anerican mllitary personnel sho are attempting to daloct. In all suca

cases, our leadquarters desk requesto and obtains the special perudssion of

the Deputy Director jos plans to pass the derojatory inionation on a Us

citizen to other lovernuent agencies. Deroratory Infomation on Avericars

18 not treated routiroly; in each case tha dix or his Assistant persorally

scrutinie the Inforration, unse sure 1t 1s credible, and decide whether and

to thon 1t 111l be passed. Only In absolute energencles is the lexico City

Station authorized to jase such iulomation directly to the fBI offles In

the V.J. Enbassy-

At this writing (13 Decerber 1963) ve do not know wet actlon the raI

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

and other agencias may have talen based on our report.

We surnise that the

IDI tay have made local checks throujh Mexican authoritias to see il

Lee OSHALU was actually in Marico City on 1 October. Indeed, later 111-

vestigation has confirmad all the detaila of his trip, where he stayod,

and ucat he did. To avold crossins lInes with the fli, our lesleD Station

undertook so local investlistion of 1ts oua. As tE Lou kaON, OSHALD left

rexico on 3 October and vas no l0njer there when our report thas put out..

• Since this relaphone tuy operation 1s a joist one vita the besdom

Presidency, the Mericans also bad the 1 October Intarcent du Ice aSHALD,

but it apparently slubered in tveir files until the assassination took

place.

22 Hoverber 1963

Whan ward of the shooting

0I Fresident Kennady reached the offices

of our operatiny alviaions and stafts on the afternoon of Irlany 2 Moven-

kar 1963, translotor radioa vere turned on everybere to follow the

trazedy. Ween the name of lee OShAID tas beard, the effect was eloctric.

A ghone nessage fron the fal case at about the sane tine, saring OSWALD

---

## Page 7

14-00000

13300

as the possible assassin and asiag for traces.

The Bossage tas Dasged

on at once by the Chief CI, to. Angletos, to i5. Blich O'beal of his

Special Investigations Unit. Mrs. lotty Egeter of this Unit Imoriataly

recoynized the naze of Lee (SHALD and sent 10r hia file. At the sane

time, kes. Bustos of the Madco Desi, who bad written our flast feport on

OSWAnD on 10 October recognized the naus Iron sailo reparty and went

aiter the sane I1le. Sir. Peichharit, Herdeo Desi Chiel, una vas hose on

Icate, heard the sews and phoned in a reminder that us bad sonething on

OstAll. While ve vere preparing a cable to herico city arding them for

MOTo InfOratIon On OSWALD, MesicO CItY itsel! hears OSWAlD's come on the

foice of America broadcast and cabled to us a rentader of tie inforsation

the Station bad sent in on ain.

Por the next week, a dozen people la the Agency vert costimously

enqjed in handling Incominz sestaues on the case, waiting reports to be

cabled out, tracing tie naves nentloned, and researching fles. Within a

weels, 27 cabled reports bad gone out to zha Walte House, the State Depart-

nant, and use FBI. lazy cables al zuidance and loquiry baù been sent to

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

• • .

our oversees stations, and many piecos of inforation on OSHALl and dis

wife had been received back. The Mexico City Station researched Its

telephone taps very thoroughly and cave up with saveral nore converantions

probably involving OVALD, but not actually nentloning this sane; these

connected lin also to tha Cusan Consulate in Mexico CIty Beveral Mexicans

were arrested and questioneil about his activities, giving a good ploturo

of what ha was really un to. Many conferences vera held with the fI

IJaison DifICer tho astod la for certain actions and passed us infortation

sIon the FBI Investization. lA ibe mints sido, a host of fabricators,

sons anonysous, borbaried overseas cabassies uith spuzous tlas on the case,

most ai which ve Investliated. All of these are soon discredited, but they

are still coning In.

Durin's this phase of our vor's, ve served prisarily in support of

F'st, which was entrasted by the President sith the enjor responsibility fou

the Investigntion. The fat was too busy to supply as with sucò of its

as iiorsation, but auwers were siven to specific questions ve posed to

essist our Investication. The Departuent ol Stata alà photograph Its entire

SASTE

+

---

## Page 9

14-00000

{1lo OU OSNAID and pass they to us, and the Ill gave us a copy of tbe

Soviet Consular Illa on OSkAiD wbich lad been publicly giren by the Soriet

Arbassador to tire Secrotary of State. On Ildsy 6 Iscencer 1963, Depaty

Attorney General Katzerbach invited us to revley the Ell's courabensive

repert on the case to mato sure our sources sere not jeOpardized and that

our Information was correctly quated. la found the report higbly

interesting and no threat to our secarity, as I0Rí as

It Has read Only

by tha authorized investigative boales.

After the Ilist ley days, the ClA Investigation of the case

H3S

haniled at Ecadquarters by a mall stair usually charged with Investication

and analyals of the vost inportant security cases, and by a lea officera

and analysts of our festers Fendsphere D1713100.

toporta 5500 fierico.

As SoOn as ott farico City Station realized that tee OSUAID was the

prime suspect, 1t began re-torening all the uritten telephone transcripta

In its files coverias the sovlet Imbassy lot the pertinent perioil. The

actual tapes were also roriered, but sany of then had been erased after the

---

## Page 10

14-00000

noral two weeks wait. Jeveryl calla beliered

60 INVOlTE OSWALD HArE

discorered and tosir contents cabled to Hashinston, whars they were

dissentirated to the White House, the State Depertoent, the Feraral

Bureau of Inveat15at1on.

OSHAID'a pane vas not actually sentioned In thesa additional calls,

but sindlarity di speech ad various plata pointa al content lini thera

to hin. Tese calla ars sumarized belon in chronolasical arter.

Trey cover the perlod fron 27 Septenber 1953 to 3 Detober 1953, tua shole

SPEZ Of OSHALD'S Tiai to Mexico Olty as later learnea fxo travel records.

I7 sestenber - A man phones the Soviet Military Attache and

says ha needa i visa to so to odessa. Man ansvering says ha slcila coll

15-60-55 and sai for the Consul. Caller asas far the adaress, and 1t is

siven do ais. (lere 15 no special reason for linking this call to OSHALD.)

37 Eostember, 4:05 P4 - Tho Cibar Consulate phosed the sortet:

Consulate, Silvia Duran, Bexican national cleri of the Cuban Consulate

called to a soviet afflotal, rayino that a nale Aserican citizen was at the

Cuban Consulate asking for a transit visa to pass through cuba on hia tay

---

## Page 11

14-00000

to the sarlet Union. She wants to know to ubon be tallod In the soviet

Consulate and who told him he would Lave no prodies about 1t. Il a soviet

visa 13 essured, the Cuban Consulaio can grant bin a tranalt visa and

simply notify Cuban migration sutborities. Toe soviet first asis ber

to wait, and then she has to explain the whole thing over asala to

soviet offatal, uho tases ber telepbone nuber and prodoes to call her

back. Silvis DURAN coccludes this call by telling the soviet she berself

Las bored and gives ber new audress for the Soviet Dabasay bulletin. Le

asks her to phone (Sergey levenovich) KUKBARIHKO (fecoad secretary who puto

out the Ballotia) to give bir the leu sûdress and ha aska tho the Caban

Cultural Attacke 13. SIIVla DURAY gives the Attache's rare as teresa

PRacizA an adda ber telephore number.

37 September, 4:25 PM - A Soriot official calls SiliTta DUBAI

bacis and tell» hes that the "Aserica" had been to see the forlet's sna.

char then a letter fron the Soviet Consulate 11 Fasbinston indtcating that

he bad been salting for vleas for hinell and ils vile to do to the sortat

Union for a lo0j time, but toat so answer had cone iron lasainston, adding

SECRET

---

## Page 12

14-00000

that the walt was secetites four or five montias.

The "Americaa" has

showa the Sovieto a letter shoulng la vas a member of an organization in

lavor of tuba and had cialsed tent the cubans could not salve his & v1ay

vithout a Fussian To. SilVIa DURAi rejoins that they bare the same

problen; the "American" 1o still at the Consulate; they cannot elto bin a

transli visa unleas la 1s asoured of & soviet visa, even taouja he just

wants to so to Caba to lait there for bis sorios visa to he prartedo la

does noù knit anyone in Caba, They end the conterstien on this note.

SIIVIa DURAN says that the vill rote this on his "cara," and the soviet

conclades by saying, "Desides be le not knowz." le excuses biasell' for the

Inconvenience he has causel and Silvia DIRAl Bays 1t is all Iliat.

28 September - Silvia DURAH Calls the Sordet Inbasay fron see

Gabas Conaulate, She says that ane kas the Americ with her agato. the

Soviet answering asks her to walt. then minother Sorled takes un the phone,

SIlvia puts the Americar on. 1he Averican tries to tall Bussian to the

Soviet uno ensters in Englisb. The Merican ats bia to speak lussian. The

Anerican says that he hai been in the forlet Babassy and spoken ilth the

11

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SEGRET.

Consul, ana that they haù tarn his audress.

The Soviet soplies that he

knows that. the Anerican then says, screwhat enignatically: "I did not

imon 1t then. I wenù to the cuban tubessy to ask thes fox ny adaresa

because they have it." The sovlet lovites him to ston by agaia and give

then the sadresa, sal the American agrees to do so. (In this conrersation,

the Anerican was speaklas haraly recognizabla Mussian.)

As far as our recoras shou, OSWALD did not phone the Soviet or Caban

Babasales ajats unt1l Juesday 1 October 1953. Ile Interrening days vers a

Funasy and a Monday. The contento of bla later calla seen to shot. he

aid not contect the sortets on those days.

1 October, 10:31 AM - A nan calls the Sortet lalitary Attache la

broken Russian and days he hal been at tbeir place the previous saturday

(23 septenter) asd talked to their Consul, They bad said they toula send

a teleiron to lasadnaton, and ho wanted to koon 1i there were anythin, ben.

The Sovieta ask bin to call another phone number and Elves bis 15-60-55, say-

1ag to 93% 105 # Consul.

1 Cetober 10:45 AN - (mis is the phons call in which OStAl

SECRET

1à

---

## Page 14

14-00000

STORET

used his true sana and whico maa therefore cabled to lashington on 9

Octocer 1263.) Les OSHAlD called the forlet Inbassy and amounced his

ons seco, saying ha had visited ther the previous saturday and spoken

vita a Consal. They had said they would serd a telegra to lirabinators,

and he wanted to know if there vere anytalay non. le did not remember

the sage of the Consul.. The Sorlot, who tas tabasay thirs OBTaDY

replied: "XOSMK07; he 1a dark." OVAID replied: "Yes, uy nave 15

OSKALD." The foviet escused hiasel? for a sluta and then sala they

hain' received anything yot. OStAID euked If they hadn't done anything

and the guard replied they had sent a roguest but that nothing bad been

recoired as yet." ONWAID started to say:

"And whatse.", but to sortot

hung up.

3 October 1963 - A nan spendinz broken Spanisa at firat ed thera

Eng 11sh pioned the loviet Mlltagy Attroso and asted about a visa. The

Attache's offico referred hin to the consulate, siving the ramber 15-40-55.

The caller wrote it dows. Ta attzche official saraged afi anottes

SECREE

13

---

## Page 15

14-00000

question about whether the caller could jets visa, and the conversation

ended. (There 1o no speclal reacon

to tie this in it CSWALD, tha 1s now

som to have re-entered the US at laredo the sure day.)

Since the operation through which ve tep the soviet, Encassy phones

in Meadoo City 13 managed jolatly wita the office or tha fresddant al

bedco, the tufarcation on lea CHAll also case to tha attention of

Prostient LOPEZ, MateDs after 22 Hovenber. Tue vext d27, 23 Hoverber, be

called 1t to

the attention Di our Chier of Station, tho vas already

tarring feverishly on the cases Stailarly, the lexicans noticed the

involvement al Cubes Convular employee Silvia DUrAll, a dexican national.

Dus Station surested that sha be arrested and interrorated about asHali.

The lexiean autboriules nud the same idea and sha and ber bustaca vers

arrested on 23 Ioveilber 1963, In the mlest of a party at their hors.

AZ?

the suests very soon released but silvis and her hussura vere quantioned

ard released on 25 Siovember 1963.

311v1a'3 buskand, Foracio DURAY Havarro, an industrial desiger,

said under police intarzogaton that when OSkALi vas caned aố

the

2852831D

---

## Page 16

14-00000

Di President kennedy, his vife had recognized the rame anù recalled sce

bad valted on OSHAID then ha casa to apply for a Cuban transit visa,

he senembered sis had sals she dealt with the soriet Consulata as vall

to Iind out wootber he had a sovlot viss. HoraciO DUAl recalled his wife

had sata DENALD becase angry sad aço had to call out the Cubai Conari,

ELISEDIO AZCUs, to guiet bin.

SIlva DisAd told the sare story. She was a loitiut sympathizer viti

Buba and had vorkad for the Meadcan-Cuban Institute of Cultural fistions.

she recalled OSHAID vell, described his accurataly, talated how ha had

wanted a titan visa but could not get one without the assurance of à sorlot

visa, end renencered his tify sita the Consul. she sanitted she had phonea

the sorter Bubysay about bit.

'The sun total ol the statements of Silvia DURAi and hor hustard was.

to confirm that OStAID as in Haico to sert a Cubes tisa so he could walt

In Cuba for his Soviet vlots The Sorlet Consular I1la passed to the State

Depararent in Washington by the Soviet Eabesay confires a lons exchanze

between first, 1irs. Harina OSSAID, and later ber sustand, and the fordet

---

## Page 17

14-00000

Consulate in Washington sbout thair raqueats for pernission to return to.

the foriet Union. OSWAID wes still writing to the Soviets in Hashinston

acout this au lato as 9 Lovencer 1963.

SIlVis DURAN was arrestad again On 27 Hovenber and bela vatil 29

Hovenber. She told essentially the see story over ajaii.

Well placed sources within the Cuban Inbassy In bedes City stated

that ten SilTia DUPAN WaS IeleasEd Ison folls arrest the first tir on

25 Horenber; abo was quite pleased with hersell. She told ber collengues

the sage story set out above, aiding only that the rexton polico had

threatoned to extradite her to the Inited states to confront lee Farrey

OSHAID.

The reaction within the Cuten Ehbasay to the neus of Fresident

Kennedy's deats vas rosbre. To date, thera is soj crodible Intomation 1n

CIA fIles thica would appear to lint los OSWALD with the Cuban zovement

or she Cuban Intelligence service.

The uhole question of whether Les OSHAID had any secret comection

with the Sovleia or Cubans in vexleo cannot jet be ansiered, but certali

parts di the evidence inuicate to the contrary. silvia DURal and the

---

## Page 18

14-00000

Soviet Consular africals spola Di hin as a sua vita "no Inlends in Cuba"

on the ons band, and as a man not "nova" in tha Soviet Babausy, on tha

other. The very opensage of his visita and the phoue calls speas against any

secret role. its trip to bealco vas not 1t50li a secrat soty he travalad

uãer kis seal nase of a close varlant of 1t, lived openly in Herdean

hotols, and correspocded uith the sorlets through sho open nails abort

It when ho got tack to the la. lia tris to leados sas apparently naèe

necessary because 1t vas the Dearsst Cuor diploantic Installation Wises

he could apply for a visa.

A perplexing aspect of OSHAID's tratiiciang wità the Cubans and

Sovlots in lexico Cliy is bin assertion in his call of 28 gaptenior that ho

ald not inca his address when be vas at tho Sarlet Consulato and cars to

the cuban Consulato becsuse they had it. It 18 hard to explaiu just virat

he neart, but 1t should ba resabered that be vas taltina In Passies, =

languaço he could not manajo, and that wien ie case to leico he nas in the

process st moving fron lew Orleans to Texas. He way not have mecarized

his ner address In Texas, inatever it was, ara may not have been able to

SECRET.

---

## Page 19

14-00000

289027

Jay kanüs on 1t when ba was 1n the soviet Consulato the ay. fertary

he has earlier aiven the zudress to silvia DURAl and wanted to lock it

up on ber card.

A particularly sirdster aspect of OSXALD's dealings with the Boriati

1n Mexico (1iy arises fron the llilthood that be not with sortet Consul

Valeriy Nadinirorich KOSTIK0%. In his 1 October phons call to the

sorist inbassy, the guard ollaboy suggests that the Consul CowALD bad

talLod to LAS TOBIIOT 11 2e tas dart. OSWALD seens to agree tita tata,

but tha identlilcation la very casual. In his 9 November lotter to the

Soviet Consulate in Washington, OSAID gives the name of the nan he dealt

with as "KOSTIN," but there ls no person of that exact race in the soviet

Embassy in lerico Clty, KATINOY is accredited as a Consular Attacho and

does actually do a lot oi consular vors, but ba 1s bollaved to be a

Borlet KCE OffIcer, and 1t 18 ballaved that he works for Departient 13 of

the KGB, the Departeent charged vith sabotage and assassinations. Tos

suspicion thet KOIIKOY 10 a KGB officer arose fion his work babits, azd

his association with other K0B officers. It was hardened when It vas

17.

---

## Page 20

14-00000

Iousa toat ha hardled a soviat ajant uno vas trained to do sabotaje

work and that ho turzed this agent over to another KE3 offleer who 1s

definitely knows to voris for the 13th Dopartent. It 18 senerally true

12 KGs vor's that sabotajo ajents are haziled only by l Department

officers.

EMbaSSy JIA IV9a ITaUVICh OBADKOY 1B hirselE bellared to la &

KGB Ian Iron previous assignents as a bodyguard and sunillant. But

unless sose direct evidence of Soriet complicity is discorered, It 19

most I1kely that OSWALD's deBling with KiB Men OBYSDADY and KOSTISOY Wa3

nothing more then a gria colicidence, a coincidence due in part to the

Soret habit of placing intalligence wen 11 the Esbassies 1n posItions

where they receire a large portion of the visiions and phone calls. All

of the five consular officers in the soviet Bubassy ars knowa or suspected.

Intelligence olficero. Certally If OSWALD bad been a sovlot arent 1x

traintag for an assasstration asslyment or even for sabotage vork, the

soriots would bare etopped him frou mitag open visits and phone calls to

the Eoviet Inbassy 1n Veries after he trled it a couple al tines, Our

....

---

## Page 21

14-00000

SIREN 7

experlance in lexico, studying the Soviet Intellizanca service at close

range, indicates that they

do make sona mistares sia are soveilues lasecurs

In their nethods, but toat they do not persist in such glaring errors.

Sove Insight on ike Cuben attitudo terara the arrest of silvia DUPAl

and the Involvenant of the Cuban Consulata in tLe OSHALD caso cas te

gained Iron two intarcasteà prons calls nado betreen Cubra iresident

DSTAlÃO DORTICOS and CuDas ARbasaBdo tO MaXiCO JOaquiA INRUATUSL Arsas o

26 cHorember 1963, the day alter SilVlI DURAi was released fion ber first

arrest. At 09:40 AH that tornirg, Fresident DONTICOS phoned the Ambassador

fron Havana and asked hin several questions about a report which the

Ambassador had sent in on the axIest of Silvia DURAi and tha leE OOHALD

case. Tis whole corersation 1s consistent wita the theasy that OsHALD

neraly suated a v13a. ine Ambassador dia mention the altercation thica

OSWAID bad vIta Consul AZCUS, and he lays that l'estcan zolice bruised

SILVIa DURAN'S ama a Little shakina ber to improse her vità to importanco

of their questions. They bad asted her 1l she had been intimats with

OSWALD end she had dented It. President DORTICOS twice asked Ambassedor

---

## Page 22

14-00000

IRANSZ whether the bodcan police had asked SIlvIa DIRAN questiona

about "money," and the frasident apparently vanted to snos whather the

Mexicans thought the cubers had pald OSAID noney, IERIAiDEZ Insisted

the Mexicans' had NOt Offered SIlVia DURAN LOneY, EId DORRICOS EBye

up trying to put acrosa his polat.. President DORTICOS Instructed

HERAlDEa to kees on questionias Silvia DURli and to phose him back.

At 7:39 PM that evening Ambassador HARAIDSZ did call Presidont

DORTICES baes, saying he bad questioned "that person" ajala and she has

aDthing Dey t0 MA. PreSidaLE DURTICOS returny to the issza

Di shotices

"they han threatenes her so that she souls male a statement that the

Consulate her gives boney to the nanti"that Anerican." But Ambassador

ERFUADE persists in Misunderstanlina DORMICOS, answee 1n the nagative,

and says: "Absolutaly rothlas was given to her." DORLICOS seems to givo

12, and the conversation dies out after a ley nore feleral renes.

We do not know for sure what mie President portICes press for intora-

ton about cuban rocey passed to ISHALD, but manors vere current in Marico

and even, is understand, in the lisa, that OSWALD had returned iron toxico

---

## Page 23

14-00000

Cly with about $5,000. Perhaps DORIICOS was trying to leara wiether

the Mexicas police believed that the Cubans had I'lnanced CHALI. In any

event, the Cuban Govercent seat the Maricans a stify note of protest

over the arrest and detention of Silvla DURAi, but the ledeans

rejectas the note.

1993.

---

