‘scan
[104-10188-10020)

|

{ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS. ACT OF 1992
aeeel EE AOTC

L

Aa

exe

DISPATCH [aon

Chief of Station, Mexico City

io

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

saute

KDAFGHA. Potential operation
cow eASTE 1 SESETSREETSRESTEREEE sa

Reference: H¥%A-41087, 29 Septesiber 1971

1,. We-appreciate the detailed progress report on KDAFGHAN
subaitted by reference. The complete description of KDAFGIAN
personnel, Working routine, facilities and equipuent was very
helpful in understanding ‘how this project functions.

‘2, Regarding your request for WOACRE advice and guidance
on hot-miking the lines. running into the gatehouse and consulate,
_ we have: discussed this possible. operation with WOACRE here who
offer the following comments. First, to accomplish a hot-mike
installation, you ‘must be able to get access to the telephone
wires. If you can gain access to the phone lines, it would be
possible to hot-nike the telephone without getting to the instru-
ment itself. ~ However, a non-access system like this will not
work. 1f the target line goes through a switchboard or if there
are multiple telephone lines going into the sane instrument.
Based on your description of the embassy telephone system, it
would appear to rule out a hot-aike operation unless you can find
and gain access to a Single. line that does not go through a switch
board, Any such operation, if one is proposed, would have to be
unilateral because the non-access system is not for exposure to

liaison.

3. It is possible that your interests in this operation
could be served equally well by an audio penetration of the
gatehouse, Such a penetration could be made by a carry-in
"quick plant" type of transmitter. Perhaps one of your agents who
regularly visite the gatehouse could be employed to carry in a
device, or you could exploit KDTUCK-4's close friendship with
KDACOUSTIC-11 to get a transmitter into the target. We would

appreciate your comments.

Distribution: Orig. & 1 - COS, Mexico City

coast berieimct 1

f’291-839003_
iag1-275904

lar
6954

Distribution:!

1 ~ WACOG COORDINATING,
1 - TSD/AOB Emer
A = thy

TSD/AOB

REEASING

ere SYMBOL ioe Tornicre pscaaTunt e 4
. Na a ey
AC WHT | 73-76-74 reo, Laser

a

iSPATCH

1Y 53. var euev



CONTINUATION OF fe i eee
DISPATCH ____|.__ SBCAST/RyBAr :  HOW-18664

4, If you vish to pursue this operation, you should con-

municate directly with MKSPICS and havea technician look at the”
Please -info MKSPICE. on

target the next timo one. ie in-tae area,
Also, in the future you may

all future traffic ofthis nature,
find it more satisfactory to aake such requests via a separate

dispatch or cable rather than tacluding it in a progress report,

[Paseo

CLASSIREATION T
[leone | a

|__SECRET/RYEAT

Use PREVIOUS EOITION,

Se


|
; 5 pren OF |
. [PBE: Zr fo Dez |
~
LDE*#! y wee FH

ee SECRET



: sey,

i

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE’

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT
ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FCLDER, FORWARD CS
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO IP/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

FU" 2593 ot eee



SECRET

Me WEN R10 8

Headquarters component).

SUBIEC) AND FXUIECI PhE REQUEST
AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

1P/AN

TO: {Statlon/Baxe) 7
“xice CITY

FROM: (Division)

INFORMATION FOR REQUES TERS

NAMCNDING A TTLE. Cre
Tay awe RE:
eM 10 MAY.

Hew to ENTER OLD TITLE we
UCAS 200 OW CHOICE FES
HL COVERED OF Has HEU
BO HE USLD 10 GIVE HLASONS FOW TON BEING RE-
QUESTLD, TO IDENTIFY THE. FYPELOF MATHIEAL TO BE PLACED.
We A PILE OR 10 MAKE OTHLH EXPLANATOIY HEMARKS.

COMPLETE TEMS THROUGH I?
ITEM 9 =ALL FILE TITLES MUST OF STERILE SINCE THEY WILL
APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS,

(TE 6 -ALL REMARKS MUST BE STTALE,
AEM 7 ANO O-USE FIRST TKLE LETTERS OF OISPATCH SyM:
BOLS FOR FIELO STATIONS AND LIST HLADQUARTERS HL:
MUNTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES. ou

HOM 11 A RECOHDS OFFICE MUST SIGN ALL HCE ACTION RE*
CONSULT YOUR [MU UFC ANT BOUL EMS THAT ARISE

INFORMATION CONCER!

com Un NuMGoR
ae a
1
1
'

Tne OF FE

;
[]svorcr EE] pnoveer

PROJECTS LIMNED 1013 SPACES)

S FLr Title SrECIFIC SUBJECT

RDAPUHA

Operations

a aequineD
= oaronnen

yee [ec HTETION TECONMEROED
AMEND FE TITLE wLonen IP/ARD_

Thmy tOater
WAHKE (FOR FIR ASTRON: a i

ANALYSIS ACTION,

F INTERESTED STATIONS «PROVECTS ONEVT

'

FILES ACTION

GiiaEE PERMANENTLY TO
forriccn a besKy

HOLD IN ead Neaane prePARE
nated ESTRICTED. UNHESTRIC TED Ceerane

(CLUDE SPLCUL HEADQUARTERS, ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS

To COMMENTS ©

1” Ria APPROVAL

mn ENDORSEMENT
SGNATURE OF OHANCHIDESR ® ©, ‘Siawatie Go weaNncy

Nene wor exstse Gb Bt i : Ze Aubessin, 2D bail

ERFEC TIVE

) Marek 1973

GESOLETE PREVIOUS
SECRET ci baat cs copy

WEGULST APPwOvEO OY

Fon
tz-en 812



osm

8.B CR 8 T/RYBAT

~~ FROCISSING ACTION

[are F0e WoERKG.

Cr inves TaTuTesnuaaiay

Chief of stat: fon,
KDAFGHAN=1

are

fot 2 Passports

eee (cco -1 e
OSHA-28329 24 January 1973 |

|_ penne
| SECRET/RYBAT | 201-288248 |

acTaow Hi GuiRTO RHEE

REF; DIRECTOR 312153

Forwarded under separate cover are KDAFGIIAN~1's
passports. Ho was paid $2,000.00 on 23 January

for which he signed a receipt,

Gerald D, FAHLANGER
Attachment: u/a/c

Distribution:
3 - C/WHD w/att u/s/e
3 - C/EUR w/o att

#2 IMPDET



DISPATCH [wey

Chief, Western Hemisphe

© Division

Chief of Station, Mexico City 6”

cory E
<_KDAFGHAN/Progress Report for Period 1 April Throuch. 31 July 1972.

[ACTON AIQUIRLD HFT

Action: Terminate the KDAFGHAN Project

References: A. HM 41906, 2 May 1972
B. MEXICO C1TY-20107
C. DIRECTOR-280180

re) 7 ities: This Project continued as before
for the major portion of this period with KDAFGHAN providing photo
coverage for cight hows per day, five days per week, of the AMPINK
dustalJation, In April the principal agent, KDAFGHAN-1, was provided
with new photographic cquipment.to improve the quality of the take,
This later proved unuseable as ‘sunlight playing on the mirror of
the lens was plainly visible from the target areca in the ‘afternoons.
The Ayont returned to the use of his old equipment. It being the
current Case Officer's practice to hold nearly all noctings with
tis Agent in the Case Officer's auto about once every two wecks we
decided to terminate. the KDAFGHAN safehouse as unnecessary.
KDAFGUAN-1 was notified of this in carly June and nearly collapsed,
The safchouse had been his refuge from the OP and his mother, _-.
KDAFGIAN~2. . We intended to put him on vacation when it was decided
(teferences B and C) to terminate him and his Project. The last
portion of this poriod was then spent in closing down the operation,
removing equipment from the OP, r storing the OP to its original
condition and then assisting the Agents in thei preparations for
resettling' to Madrid. All of this was finally accomplished. by

31 July and the Agents were formally terminated on 1 August.

Continued,

Distribution:
{Ovdg. & 2 = Chief, wHD

ne

S COPY
ramen ~T] aPAtGH bo aN WMS
UMMA - 42227



Pied Te By MBO ATG HOMDTE

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

) HMMA. = 42227

2. Scourity: There were no security incidents during this
period.

3, CL: The termination of these two Azents
came ax a se Shock to both; they were not prepared foe tt
They have adapted fairly well and now ave looking forward to
fhetr new 1ife in Spain. They intend ‘to depart vexien for Madrid
on 1 September, ~ 7

3 ypneduction: Production for this period was normal until

4
20 June whew It ceased permanently,

5. Administrative/Finance:. There was a large amount of

administrative det faivotving teadquarters and the Madrid
‘Station‘'tn the rescttloment of these tuo Agents. This has been

discussed ia Separate cable traffic. Costs exceeded the programmed
over ten ease Of the. large severance ‘pay paid both agente ore had
over ten years service each, KDAFGHAN-1 was paid U.S, $8,170.00
and KDAFGHAN-2 was paid U.S. $2,228.48,

We have no plans to Yeplace KDAFGHAN with another
oto-surveillance project, The production does not
Justify the cost. lowever, we do have plans to obtain a multi-
Purpose baschouse in the area’ that can serve as a site for taking
Photos when necessax + Serve us a LP for future audio operations
against AMFINK, and as a -base from which to dispatch a future
surveillance team. The PBRUMEN section has. already started the
Search for agent assets who, in turn, can look for un appropriate
site. The aequisition of the latter will be the most difficult as
rental property is ata premium in the AMFINK area, Headquarters

will be kept informed of our progress.

thle’
SSO GARDALPHE

7 CCABSIFICATION Saisie TPAce No,

i
Use previous c0:TI0N SECRET | [xo] eeumies lel licieieeia



: AE
pesew ey per
TINT n

i] rue ve

SEGRE T 931743, A
CITE MEXICO cITy,

72 STAFF
ROSTEDT ACTING)

it
PRIORITY DIRECTOR, i \P
REFt DIRECTOR 296651
l. PROPOSED Tex

SED TEXT OF LETTER IS SATISFactory, PLEASE MAIL

ASAP. APPRECIATE HOS PRONPT RESPONSE THIS MATTER,
& FILE: 50-6-122/3, 201-286248, 201-305604.° Ex-2, appr ne
wie SIS, ee
SECRET :
A
DOC. MICRO. SER:
aug 147
MICROFILMEO
: re-6- 42 12
Gres 26849 J

, eee 3 AUG 1972
: Boel Zu 6 EY S20 :
: rE


E

one ds Bavisrek \

wnat BL 1

ao 8 oo

wes rue No,

we

ors TS

ofan & I mew d + eo ee

Tracer

SD

vo FERICRITY sect crm Into Mt oR

REFS: A, 32ND mig 20575 (IN 673507)

162 CITY 20576 (IN 873509) op

C, DIRECTER 294880

DOE MICRO” SER.
6.15 1972
MICROPILMED

B

1, PROPOSED TEXT KDAFGHAN-1 JOB REFERENCE FOLLOWS:

ALT

IS TO ADVISE THAT IDEN A 84S ON RETAINER EY

JANUARY 1SGRSTRCUGH! JULY 1972. IDEN A, THE POSSESSOR OF ALE

TRANSLATED LEGAL DO NTS PERTAINING TO LATIN ICAN EUSL

SPECIAL ATEEATION TO THE PRESENCE Wii SPECIAL MENGES TH

N GF >
ELAR ON IOGN B'S CONTRACTS, NEGOTIATIONS, AND TEANSACTIONS.

TED AT THE

S$. IDEN A RAS COMPENS

CF 6,000 PESOS EER ANNUM.

C. i MOULD LIKE TO NOTE ASSING TUT THE TRANSIATI:

NELAL IN CHARAC

TO TEM.

Baer 299798

3
a aes
2
1



mea

omer
uray
car,

CAPLE SECHETARIAT o:SSEMINATION OD moee O) no woee
nn | aes

conF iil.

Comer) Poon etter onus
_SECRET/QYRAT_, EME oEcIOR DAL of
to TPRIORITY MEXICO CITY INFO MADRID”. 7
* PAGE THO

D. I CAN PERSONALLY RECO. % DECIDED TO
REMAIN IN MEXICO, OUR FIRM HOULD HAY

AWE ED TO CONTINUE HIS RETAINER,
‘ E. SIGNED IDEN C, PRESIVENT,.

ND

AVERY PIGHLY. HAD HE 5g

BEEN PLES

2.1F LEVTER ACCEPTABLE £
AIRMAIL TO REF C ADDRESS,

ATION, EQS WILL MAIL VIA REGULAR INTERNATIONAL,

«3. FILE. $0-6-122/3,201-289248

201-505604, EX-2 AFDIR, WN-SISM.

END CF MM
TW CCAMENT.

SAGE,
qs suggested that the ke:

St course action KDAFGHAN- lcs

netional cozpany.

(Gordon Woll-in draft)

dita

Vinee | san) - i p /
EY Yo ine

metre



RIAT DISSEMINATION

EP ReneS

SCUTING ANO/08 INITIALS-SCCN BY

SP SECRET.
z Sank Filled ini

REPRT SUCTION OF Tris Com Sac

SECRET o11s252.auc 72 STAFF. |) DESENSITIZED

CITE MEXICO cITY 255% (ROS? EDCACT ING) elit om

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO MADRID.. : : -
KDAFG HAN, . 673507

REF: DIRECTOR 294880 my

1. CONCUR REF PROPOSAL. PARA 4 AND 5 REF ANSWERS ARE: E
Ae SUBJ TRANSLATED LEGAL DOCUMENTS, CONTRACTS, Now

LAWS- EFFECTING COMMERCIAL DEALINGS, ETC. ¢PER HQS PARA 2 REF

SUGGESTION). SHOULD STRESS THAT THIS Invouvep TRANSLATIONS OF )) an: J

4Be

CONFIDENTIAL AND DELICATE NATURE thie ane SUBJ SHOWED UTMOS’
DISCRETION IN HANDLING THESE,

B. DATES oF EMPLOYMENT = 1 JANUARY 1585 TO 31 JULY 1972.
C. SALARY: 6,200 PESOS,

D. EXACT DATE oF DEPARTURE: 4 SEPTEMBER 1972
E. CURRENT ADDRESS: (IDEN).

2. DO NOT RPT NOT SEND LETTER. OF REFERENCE BY CERTIFIED OR *

SPECIAL DELIVERY MAIL AS THIS WILL causz GREAT DELAY IN DELIVERY,
USE REGULAR INTERNATIONAL AIRMAIL,

3. FYI: SUBU CURRENTLY TAKING INSTRUCTOR’ S COURSE aT
BERLITZ AND INTENDS TQ APPLY FOR POSITION aT BERLITZ MADRID,

Baer REIN 88.6097 Svea aie Be
Biers Jos tey SECRET See bos



ALE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATICN CLASSIFIED MESSAGE Torat Copie:

ue SECRET

(When Filled In)

ROUTING AND:08 INITIALS SEEN BY

Sunes EI

(_Heneenenenntar™ ca 2

ovsees_ ayn
oar

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 2¢575 SE CR ET \ =

4 FILEs 30-6-122/3, 261-288248, 2081-30564,

Exeg, APDIR, UN-SISM, .
SECRET i ean i



CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION wees

pay

wovrcecon [sso (_] som

ee DESENSITZED

ossew sv

ABE EE Let

441 ;
SECRET SL2S4Z JUL 72 STAFF
CITE waDRID(1ssBamADAs: oN
Pe,

DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIANI, ‘NEXICO CITY, P

. eS ykoarenan/3

REF DIRECTOR 294889 i]
. 1. HAVE SUBJECT CONTACT MR. HARVEY .C A SH, AMERICA 7

CONSUL GENERAL, AT EMBASSY.

2. WE ARE CULLING POSSIBLE ENPLOYNENT LEADS AND WILL

ADVISE BY REF DEADLINE IF ANY FOUND.

3. FILES 50+6-122/3; 201-286248; 201-305604, EX-2
3 gppir, va-Sist :
SECRET

z B 2 - 28 aap
Raseed CS copy

Y SECRET

wae 3


sia Tats Blea lect © let. Seca “hla Ee

a nen CUTIE } Taste oad tore oe ing hUBSDEREELEETUETENGROUGH, Ds aegy
: SUCRET GEE Sipiriate ete CITE DIRECTOR ant
{ PAI 17 382
' vo [” PRIORITY : f
MEXICO CITY INFO MADRID : fp 296 2880

eae iovrcuny 3

MEXICO CITY 20534 (IN 670094) NOT SENT MADRID*

H

: B. MEXICO CITY 20500 (IN 666296) NOT SENT MADRID*S
f :

: C. MEXICO CITY 20204 (IN. 842397) NOT SENT MADRID***
! D. MADRID 1686S (IN 666243) **A%

: "1, IN DISCUSSIONS WITH WOGAME BEST COURSE ACTION

KDAFGHAN-1 CASE APPEARS BE BACKSTOPPED FOTTNTL. REFERENCE

FROM NOTIONAL U.S. COMPANY WHICH SAYS IT HAS WIDE BUSINESS

INTERESTS IN LATIN AMERICA. THIS COMPANY WOULD ANSWER ‘ALL

= OR TELEPHONE INQUIRIES RE XDAFGHAN-1'8 JOB

CORRESPONSDE
ENCE. -

2, STATION NEXICO CITY, SUGGESTED REF C THAT X+1

, SALESMAN OR

RE

WOULD LIKE WORK AS SPANISH OR ENGLISH TEACE
AL EXPERTENCE IN

IN PUBLIC RELATIONS. | X-1 HAS LUMLTED ACt

CONTINUED. «

SER.

DOC. MICRO.
AUB: Whe
MICROPILMES

Beer - PVA ;

APLEASING CFFICER

eres!
Recent

O. cory ho.

SO-C1e £7

Bej- 30 VEY



owe Lb, NHISTLER

fan PAGE 2

——orancn =] reno

cates ;
Cog AIGRLTARIAT CISDEMINATION Rae TD no mocx (reruns ro
i 4

et DO mein cs rue no.

Conny.
LET weve. eet iiacen

WOULD BE THAT K-L WORKED ON RETAINER FOR U,S, COMPANY DOING

N AMERICAN COMMERCIAL LAWS AND CONTRACTS.

| Tri Taare aaa Hire Wey
i

: _ -SECRET/RYBAT PAGE TWO cre onccron 2.74 SNC

on |
7°" gui THESE FIELDS. BELIEVE MOST CREDIBLE KOTIONAL REFERENCE

| r

TRANSLATION LATI

THUS K-21 COULD HAVE WORKED AT HOME AND NO NEED FOR COMPANY

* | QOBFICE IN MEXICO CITY. panne
: sd
. . 3, NOTIONAL COVER COULD: FX EAD BE MADE FOR K-21 AS

+" COMPANY SALESMAN OR PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENT, BUT UNLESS HE
F EXPERIENCE THESE FIGLDS IT DOUBTFUL HE WOULD.
ARGON TO MAINTAIN, SUCH COVER THROUGHOUT

SUGGEST

HAS YEARS 0)

KNONLEDGE OR J.
ARLY STAGES. EMPLOYMENT IN SPAIN.

HAVE
INTERVIENS OR IN E.
GEER \ HAVE K-1 TRY OBTAIN REFERENCES FROM TRUE PAST

EMPLOYERS TO COVER HIS ACTUAL WORK AS SALESMAN AND IN
IF COULD OBTAIN

PUBLIC geLATIONS WHICH NOTED IN REF C.
T TIME,

THESE REFER US, EVEN TF ONLY WORKED: AT JOB FOR SHOR’

+ THEY WOULD USEFULLY AUGNENT NOTIONAL REF
ICO FOR TEN YEARS.

EXPLAINING 1115 WORK IN t

CONTINUED...

eu uee

ncceaeuia orricrn sUTMENTICATING

aie cone Ha.



i
I

1

: @..-
omg: L. WHISTLER |

ants

tn PAGE THREE

pares

. CAoLE eoncraMar orstcumaTION 1 [) woex [J noimoex () meruanvo —__ pnanen (] ene mio

pre: “ESE v0
: ae

veunisits_d

ov ee, a.  rnemes meno.

x ;
ET rice. ve. Palani

feo)

Tas Weataad : Taste ond tare tea

_ SECRET/RYBAT PAGE THREB sen onceton 2GUSSE
oe , 7

4, IF NOTIONAL BACKSTOPPED COVER ACCEPTABLE TO STATION,
M 1igs NEED* FOLLOWING: ;
A) SOME NOTIONAL DETAILS DUTIES HE PERFORMED
_ FOR COMPANY. : i ; .
B) DATES HE WORKED.
C) SALARY (SUGGEST IT BE CLOSE TO ACTUAL SALARY
OF 5300 PESOS).
 "§. PLS PROVIDE EXACT DATE K-1 PLANS LEAVE NEXICO AND
CURRENT: ADDRESS K-1 MEXICO CITY. HQS WILL CABLE PROPOSED
TEXT K-1 JOB REFERENCE TO MEXICO CITY FOR YOUR COMMENTS
PRIOR TO MAILINC.- ONCE TEXT AGREED UPON LETTER WILL BE
REMAILED TO K-1 FROM HOME CITY OF NOTIONAL COMPANY.

ROMRANX
CONTINUED. . .

eu eee
ep eas

COoNDINATING OFFICERS.
He AUDEEITICATING
orricen

ACLEASiNG OFFICER "
OFLCEIS

REPRODUCTION BF OF

cory Ko,



cssace ron

TOTAL COPIES:
et PAGE FOUR

SUCRET/R) BAT J
ware:

_gamse seentramaroissemmiarion | CJ] wee C] nomocx [1] metunw ro—____ewaricn —[] ene mo
costeseneistaasbanttraalsisoneeis’) 0 rue inca ree no,

eons 7 - ;

j El ewe. ve.

aeil| tora”

ene Cos — ; Seseiasea ggg seecseeseecseecseecsee eee
“_SECRET/RYBAT 7 ive DIRECTOR 49SO

wf 6. SUGGEST AT TERMINATION K-1] BE TOLD REFERENCE 7
Y MMAILe

"L. WHISTLER

units

ete)

8
FORTHCOMING»
ALSO SUGGEST THAT K-1 BE GIVEN TWO MONTHS SALARY

: IN ADDITION TO REGULAR TERMINATION To COVER NORMAL JOB : : i"
; HUNTING PERIOD IN SPAIN. TIES WOULD SEEM NORMAL SIGN OUR

* APPRECIATION HIS YEARS OF SERVICE.
j coe 7. SEE LITTLE VALUE REF B SUGGESTED JOB REFERENCE FROM |

H KDACROBAT-1 AS HE ALSO LEAVING. MEXICO AND COULD NOT BACKSTOP.

8, FOR MADRID: STATION MEXICO CITY HAS GIVEN. WOACRE
PASSPORTS TO KDAPGIIAN-1 AND 2.: THEY. OBTAINING U.S. AND 7 .
SPANISH VISAS AND WILL MAKE STOPOVER WASHINGTON D.C, TO _-

VISIT BROTHER ON WAY TO SPAIN. = PLS PROVIDE ASAP NAME OF
CONTACT. IN MADRID TO WHOM K-1 IS TO TURN OVER PASSPORTS.
9. DOES MADRID HAVE CONTACTS EHO MIGHT PROVIDE

MPLOYMENT K-12 PLS CABLE ANY ‘EMPLOYMENT LEADS DIRECTLY

MEXICO CITY PRIOR s AUGUST WHICH DATE STATION PLANS BREAK

CONTACT WITH K-1. Lbesees!
10, FILE: $0-6-122/3, 201-288248, 2U1-305504, EX-2, APDIR, kN: SISM.

Fy
ny
:
a ' END OF MESSAGE i
1

weno

auniniricaning
ULTICLR

cory Ho.



won

L. WHISTLER

an PAGE FIVE

are:

EnmLe orencramar orssimiMATION | CP wore [J noimocx [J ncrunnto_____onancn = [J] rie mio
py See oo 2. C1 rue wees rive wo.

tani

ny
3

run ve
TT a ia ae
-SECRET/RYBAT PAGE FIVE cure vector 2 QUE9O

ro [~ : 7 =

WH COMMENT: = (REFS A THRU.C SENT SPECIAL €
: *REF A STATES STATION PLAN BREAK CONTACT

y GUST. IF HQS CAN't

XNRXAN

NOEUNEXEN NEKESNIS

‘STOPPED JOB EREN| THEY PLAN.
THS SALARY TO TIDE HTH OVER WHILE
JOB HUNTING SPAIN. ALSO ASKS FOR NAME
CONTACT IN. SPAIN TO RECEIVE WOACRE PASSFORTS:
FROM K-1 AND K-2.

*®*REF B STATES KDAFGHAN OP BEING CLOSED OUT
31 AUGUST, SAYS PLAN TERMINATE
WHEN HAVE ANSWERS (REF D) FROM MADRID AND
ANSWER RE BACKSTOPPED JOB RE EN
ALSO SUGGESTS K-1 COULD GET JOB REFER

GESTS K-1 Fi
+» MADRID AND ASKS IF HQS OR MADRID CO}
ASSIST.

*#**REF C SAYS Kel PLANS RESETTLE SPATN

PROBLEMS, JOB REFER
MEXICO AND PASSPORT

YEARS IN
ASSPORT.

: PASSPORTS TWAT IT"
| SH AUTHORITIES.

Ge CONTACT POINT To Pick uP PASSPOR RTS FROM K+,

CCS/DEB_

Gordon Woil (in draft)
ili : 1 Wit/C/OPS
minut Le E/IB/S___s
* JANES EB. FLANNERY

yo ACAD

‘
RULZASING OFFICER,

Rersocuc cE1S Th Y covers.



CABLE SECRETARIAT’ DISSEMINATION
 RRSSTIAT BORA

w SESKE" =

(Whee files 7 Sees:

DESE NSIFIZED 1
OSA

SECRET 2 Z JUL 72 STAFF : r
mac 670837 =
CITE NADRID(16898//SHRYOCK ACTING) 4 /&

. DIRECTOR INFO MEXICO CITY.

SEED KvarcHan/3

REF: As DIRECTOR 292249
By MADRID 1ase5 (OD 66243)

1. Suan FOR KDAFGHANS TO APPLY. FOR CITIZENSHIP AFTER ARRIVAL ag

CUBAN PASSPORT SHOULD BE MOST EFFECTIVE ¥EANS. ACCORDING To
QUSEQUIN/62, PERSONS FROM LATIN AMERICA CAN APPLY AFTER COMPLET IO)
AB

e T¥O YEARS RESIDENCE IN ‘SPAIN, COMPARED 10 NUCH LONGER PERIOD> a
. FOR THOSE COMING FROM OTHER AREAS. ONCE NATURALIZATION GRANTED,
ey PASSPORTS ARE NOT RPT NOT RETAINED BY AUTHORITIES.
MANY CHOOSE TO KEEP THIER PASSPORTS DURING THIS TWO YEAR
PERIOD IN CASE THEY MUST TRAVEL HOWEVER, ONCE KDAFGHANS RESIDENCE ony
ESTABLISHED AND THEY RECEIVE LOCAL CEDULA FOR NORMAL beak elke ‘7
THEY CAN APPLY FOR SPANISH ONE-IRIP “APATRIDA” CSTATELESS PER SON) /
PASSPORT SHOULD TRAVEL BE NECESSARY. CaS INCENTIVE SHOULD
= INDUCE AGENTS TO RETURN PASSPORTS SOONEST. ONLY HITCH MAY BE
a PROBLEM OF ENTERING AS PBRUMEN CITIZENS WISHING TO ESTABLISH
RESIDENCE. ASSUME MEXICO CITY CAN EXPLORE WITH LOCAL
ia REPRESENTATIVES HANDLIAG SPANISH MATTERS. 28 JUL 1972

go COPY
SECRET 56-&-/2



CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE __ToTAL COPIES ROUTING AND. OR INITIALS SEEN BY

_ RR RT SECRET

(Wien Filed in)
REPRODUCTION OF Ted CET PRONNOTED

PAGE 2 MADRIE 16898 SECRET : ie
2. STATION MAKING APPROPRIATE ARRANGEMENTS WITH EXBaSSY.
FOR CONSULAR OFFICER TO BE PICK-UP POINT TO EXCHANGE PASSPORTS
FOR CASH SETTLEMENT WITH KDAFGHANS. WILL ADVISE NAME SOONEST.

3. FILE: 50-6-122/3, EX-2, APDIR, WN-SISM
SECRET

ne



TAULE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
RENT RoI’

p sess: \GE. 3

* SECRET.

‘EWheh Filled 18)
[REPRODUCTION OF THiS COPY PRONBHTEO

COPIES 18 ROUTING AND-O8 INITIALS-SEEN BY

sovance cory sso J tormeo

= Lert Ai FILE. VR
JUL 72 STAFF 666243 -:

SECRET 22 ?
PA
CITE MADRID \6865 SHRYOCK ACTING) : i r

DIRECTOR INFO MEXICO CITY.

— "SITIZED

per Os 70-17.

Sevdtis” _cfef

tee REF DIRECTOR 292249

i (E559 varcuan
i fans

[OW CASES. IT APPEARS
PROBABLY NOT REPEAT ‘NOT IN WHICH EVENT PROCEDURE OUTLINED
— DIRECTOR 288@@3 WOULD BE SOUND.
2. STATION ARRANGING FOR.LNGOLD OFFICER TO BE CONTACT POINT
ONCE PASSPORTS AVAILABLE AND MONEY CAN BE PAID. WILL ADVISE NAME

He AND CONFIRM PARA ONE ABOVE SOONEST.

3.. FILE: 50-6-122/3. EX-2, APDIR, WN-SISM.
SECRET

6S copy ge JUL WZ
. SECRET 5O-€-/22/3


a ee

er DOL FO-de

DUE BECHETAMIAT DISSEAUNATION:

- WY. cA___—F. Cre ne IN COPE NO. i
wae vn A ae 2 Awe eam eley Awe
: ; i a ae y \ ’
aaa =: 2 ae ese
SECRET. itinn 8 082 ee ouccron
MADRID -INFO: MEXICO CITY, DICTECH “4 7
fe : if 288093

ROAR GHAN L Epyel ps

KDAFGHAN-2 (IDEN B)S SPAIN AT. THEIR REQUEST. K-] DIRECTED PuoTe.

SURVEILLANCE onERATION WHICH RECENTLY TERMINATED, WITH

r a

WIT" K-1 OR K-2,
7 2, K-LSAYS CAN GET VISA SPAIN AND CAN.
STATUS BECAUSE HIS FATHER NATURAL-EORN SPANIARD, ALSO, K-1

OWNS CONDOMINIUM APARTMENT MADRID WHICH PROVIDES 123 SMALL

“INCOME, K-1 HAS BEEN TOLD BY LOCAL SPANISH. CON UL (StC} THAT.
: Supe

CaN ian pee
WLU GET TOURIST VISA FOR SPAIN IN CURREN
SHOULD SUBMIT CITIZENSHIP APPLICATION ON ARRIVAL MADND,

HOWEVER ,TO GET IMMIGRANT VISAS BEFORE LEAVING MEXICO WOULD

(CONTINUED)



eerntace roe
Form ees

‘a 4
in { "RET.
"
-
te:
Geeorcertamarvesemnarion | CJ ancen C} nomcea,  [) neruny ro ———— owanen
rt | OF rte ePrice no)

Bray

7
El ue ve i

CITE DIRECTOR i

Tasers 7

TpAce2.
3, HQS CONCURS MEXICO CIT

7 SUGGESTION THEY USE WOACRE
SPORTS FOR MAKING TRIP TO SPAIN BUY WANTS BE SURE RECOVER

PAS:
PASSPORTS. CAN MADRID VERIFY. THAT K-1 AND K-2 WOACRE PASSPORTS
i: Rae

2] ASPHALT.
BY SPANISH OF FICIALS Dtt <G@ NORMAL TMMIG RANT

WILL NOT BE

PROCESSING?“

4, FOR MADRID: DO YOU HAVE INPUT BEST WAY FOR K-1 AND

K-2 APPLY CITIZENSHIP SPAIN? DOES PARA 2 WAY APPEAR FEASIBLE?

PREFER NOT USE LIAISON ASSISTANCE FOR K-1 AND K-2 UNLESS

ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY. ; : ‘
bs
_ WHICH WILL BE PAYABLE W
2 APPLICATION SPANISH CITIZENSTIP.
MADRID CONTACT WITH K-1 TO PASS FIM MONEY 1S EXCHANGE FOR
SUGGEST CONTACT COULD BE IN CONSULATE,

3, 069 OF K-1 TERMINATION MONEY

298, PLAN HOLD BACK USS
HEN HE PETURNS WOACRE PASSPORTS. AFTER

HIS AND K-' REQUEST STATION

PASSPORTS IN MADRID,

POSSIBLY WITHOUT EXPOSING BKTRUSTER TO K-l, CAN STATION ARRANGE

ae eae

(CONTINUED!

mvp Easing OFFICER


‘ecogho

=

n .
Ye -
©

(AC SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

vent,

tee)

CITE DIRECTOR

pace. TAS
SUGGESTED OR OTHER CONTACT FOR EXCHANGE? MEXICO CITY WILL
PROVIDE FIRM ETA, WHICH EXPECTED ABOUT MID-AUGUST,

6, FILE: §0-6-122/3. EX-2, APDIR, WN-SISM.
END OF MESSAGE

ADC/AWW_sy
WH/FI___

WH/COG oat

7 yA
emps “ /2r. Sh hen
oe

“hg Thine
THEODORE G, SHACKLEY
C/WHD

ewene

RELEASING OFrtcER,

Reo 27 OUR Tes



PROCSSING ACTION.

(aN ATION

DISPATCH “|store

here Diviston BEDrSeSsnsanannie

n Homis;

Chief of Station, WH/Miami -

Chief of sti

[eae

LOM, Me
Report fov. Portod 1 January Through 21 Mavea 1872 _

KDAFGHAN/Prog ves:
vieena

Action Required: Sce Paragraph 10

References: A. MMMA-41490, 11 January 1972
B, MEXICO CITY-18887
C. MEXICO CITY-18889
Db,  UMMW=1891, 10 March 1972
E, MMMW-18914, 10 March 1972

Sumr The Project continues as before, routinely

producing photos and information of the activities of AMFIXK

personnel and their visitors, KDAFGHA was able to implicate

one AMPINK in a criminal activity, but unfortunately the GOM

whitewashed the case, Another possible lead to a solution of

our security problem has cropped up in the form of KDAFGHAN-1's
fi

girlfciend, vhad.noluck in_locating a new OP site to H
av

KDAFGHAN=1 -contin' to have his pe:

replace this oi
proves; but they have yet to reach the point where they affect

the security of this operation.

7 al Activities: With the exception of the month
of March th Gd"on their activities as usual, pro~
viding photographic coverage of the entrance to AMFINK from’ 0900
to 1800-eack working day, [In March, we had KDAFGHAN change his
hours to from 1600 hours, when the AMPINKS return from lunch, to
2300 hours, when the last one usually leaves for home. - This

coverage convinced us that most, if not all, AMFINK clandestine ke
activity is carried out in the afternoon and evening hours, they] ~4
ee ee rely active durius this part of day in the sense of the w.,/.
number of trips they make outside of AMFINK. Some even disappeared... Ma
completely during most of the afternoon, ‘This intormation should

help our efforts to survelll the AMFINKS. A lucky break was had

when KDAFGHAN witnessed the return of the Subject of 201-886893 from

teresa ny

Continued,

4 Oo

Distribution;
¥ Orig, & 2- Chief, wip
1 - COS, WH/siams :
fe oS Copy

TT earaicn Som8OK AD hums



conTinuaTiUN-Ge TERS EMIT AND oD
DISPATCH i

JHMMA = 419

the incident in which he was involved. We were able ‘to pass
this information 2 the police through the KUGLACTERS. ° Up until
that time-t! P ao beon after another AMPINK., With this
information they were rapidly able to identify, the culprit.

3. Cur technician paid a visit to the KDAFGHAN site during
this period and spent most of one day on updating his techniques.
This has resulted in a further improvement in the quallty of his ~~
photographs. «He. was-also briefed on and given a night-viewing
device .to use*during* the March. evening survelllances. Unfor-
tunately this device proved of no use because of lighting condi-

tions.

Bt 4. -The: Case’ Officer and the KDCALY ERTS have spent a great
deak-of time during t iS-period looking for an alternate OP site.

1 een looking for one to servo aS a basehouse
for-their surveillances of the AMFINKS and we for an OP to replace
the present KDAFGHAN site. Neither of us has had any luck. The
arew is highly’ desirable because of its proximity to excellent
transportation and because it is-a middle class residential "oasis"
ina heavily commercialized area. We continue to look, but are
now less optimistic on our chances of finding a new site,

5. Security: KDAFGHAN-1 was SGSWIRLED during this quarter
with no signs of deception. , (References B and E) The SGSWIRL
Yeveaicd a girlfriend and confirmed his correspondence with
relatives in PBRUMEN. -.It also revealed that he assumes that
KDTUCK-19 works for us since he had recommended him to us at
least three times, After the last recommendation KDTUCK-19 told
KDAFGHAN-1 that.sOmebody had been investigating him and KDAFGHAN-1
drew the obvious conclusion, ‘The girlfriend (Reference C) is
interesting, An East European immigrant, we have one card showing
that she was the object of the attention of the Subject of 201-
012972, a suspect intelligence officer. Unfortunately, neither
we or Headquarters have ‘been able to locate the basic document,
HMMW-13665, 7 June 1965, BeGause of this, and her sharing one
of the beds in the KDAFGHAN safehouse with KDAFGHAN, we intend
to check her out’ throughly (see plans and Headquarters’ action
required below), Because of our suspicion that KDAFGHAN-1 or
KDAFGHAN-2 is possibly being monitored by the AMFINKS, we have
cut our meetings: with him to two a. month and taken special counter~
surveillance precautions at each meeting. So far, we have noted
nothing unusual. Our plans ‘for a CI operation designed to smoke
out any possible ANFINK monitoring of this operation are being
held in abeyance pending the results of our investigation of the
Subject of Reference C.

There have been no meetings with
eriod except for the one visit by our
KDAFG! 1 continues to show sporadic
“ROE_mental instabi lity. In
addition he seems to be “becoming more and more passive. Through
his observation of AMFINK he gains a great deal of information of
interest to us. While our files show that once he used to report
this, we now find that it has to be pumped out of him bit-by-bit,
with he apparently either not recognizing or being interested in
its significance. In our opinion, an extended vacation away from
KDAFGHAN-2 is long overdue. 7

7. Pyoduction: Production continued as before during this
period with the exception of the month of March when no photos were
taken because of the hours. We-have begun showing some of the
photographs of local contacts to the KDSALEMS. To date the results

6. Agent Personne
KDAFGHAN-2 during |
technician to the site.

have been negative. | We continue to pass the appropriate portions
of KDAFGHAN production to .LNERGO, :
a eet "SASS a

SECRET Pee | 2063

S3a use Previous eo:TI0N.



“Subject of |

CATON THSPATGN BIMOGL AND UHRA

CONTINUATION OF t

DISPATCH

SECRET 7 | mies 11966 |

a.
new passports in Ma
amount,

nce: | We provided the KDAFGHANS with
continued Within the programmed

9. PL As mentioned above we will be investigating the
nce C during this period, When this is accom
plished We will begin a CI exercise based on a pices of nisinfor-
mation tailored to make the AMFINKS take overt And verifiable
action. | In the ‘meantime we will continue our scareh fox a new OP
Site.: Qn FORTAW'S arrival he will-start looking for a: nei
When recriiited, “EhIs ‘team will be given the task or finding
sitovand we will ccase our“activities along this line.” We will
fhe KDAFGHANS. on until-the new team is in place and the new
by. the end of this-calendar year we aré unable

e.will terminate, the KDAFGHANS, let the

; ff"for'a while ‘and then place the new team in
lace. The costs of terminating these two agents will~ ,
Woeogn Six thousand dollars. “we expect them to resettle in either
WOCORK with the rest of their family or in Spain where they have
Property. .We foresee no problems in the termination.

10. Headquarters Action Required:

a. Please try again to locate HMMW-13665 of 7 June 1965
(File # $0-8-2/2-1),-

b.- Please review 201-012972 for any other possible
information of the Subject of Reference Cc,

Witter

sse A. G,
/

‘DALPHE

Form

53a

CLASSIFICATION — “Tt BaGE NS,

USE PREVIOUS EDITION. SECRET
i

cotrmueo | 3 of 3



A LUrity Ve a-

a ROVING ANO-UM HATIALS-SEEN BY
cacuer

SECRE
Filled Ind

SECRET O5j816Z FEB 72 CITE MEXICO CITY 18887
DIRECTOR INFO WH/MLAME : 3Feew 529170
PERUMEN KDAFGHAN SGSWIRL Cc
REFS: A. HMMA-4A1490, Lf JANUARY 1972

B. DIRECTOR 228192

1, KDAFGKAN-1 SGSWIRLED 1 FEBRUARY 1972 WITH NO
APPARENT SIGNS OF DECEPTION. CORRESPONDENCE WITH
RELATIVES IN PBRUMEN BY LETTER, TELEGRAM AND PHONE
ADMITTED (SUBJECT APPARENTLY SAW NOTHING WRONG IN ‘THIS
AND WAS NOT TAKEN To. TASK FOR IT AT THIS POINT). ALL
SUCH CORRESPONDENCE HAS SEEN MADE USING THEIR TRUE STREET
ADDRESS, PHONE NUMBER AND NAMES AS RETURN ADDRESS/CALLING
PARTY. WOST,OF CORRESPONDENCE CARRIED OUT BY KDAFGHAN-2
AND USUALLY RESTRICTED TO FAMILY EVENTS AND KOLIDAYS.

2. WHILE IT PRELIMINARY OPINION OF SGSWIRL OPERATOR
THAT IF ANSTAFF ON TO SUBJECTS, KDAFGKAN-! COMPLETELY
UNWITTING “OF IT, We 4R& PROCEEDING ON ASSUMPTION THAT :
PARA 1 CORRESPONDENCE AND/OR WEIGHBORHOOD INVESTIGATION
BY AiiFINK Has LED, OR WILL SOON LEAD TO, AMSTAFF DISCOVERY
OF THIS OPERATION, THEREFORE, WE PLAN TO BEGIN SEARCH. FOR

SECRET


CLAS YIFIED Mess. forat,

SECRET
(When Filled tn)

RePRcou

JON OF THis copy PAS!

ar

PAGE 2 NEXICO CITY 18867 SECRET
REPLACEMENT SITE AND PERSONNEL.

3. KDAFGHAN-1 WILL PROVIDE NAMES AND ADDRESSES
REQUESTED REF B AT NEXT MEETING. \

4. FILE: 50-6-122/33 201-288248 AND 201-305604, GP-1
SECRET !

SECRET rw)



|

DISPATCH [- .ccees

iy

Chief, Weste

W Hemisphsce Dt

Chief of Station, Mexico City

soar zs
© Liaison Kiowledye of the KDAFGHAN Operation
acon HiquiatD REALS sia sae seraias sseriiicatits

Reference: HMMW-15660, 20 October 1971

As a result of the Warren Commission proceedings, Liaison
(and the rest of the world) know that JKLANCE has photographic
coverage of the Cuban ilssion, jiowever, te the best of our
knowledge, no one knows where it is or who does it. This is
confirmed ‘by KDAFGHAN photos showing Cubans, and others, shaking
their fists at a house which is not the KDAFGHAN site. In our
request to Liaison to remove the offending traffic sign, tlead-
quarters may be assured that we did not tell Liaison the true
yeason for our request, ‘they were told that it sowetines
interfered with physical surveillance. Liaison in turn gave
the same request to the appropriate contact in the traffic
police, using the cxplanation that ¢ veillance tean
wanted tre cign removed.

7

: Se} Aha eae ee
- ‘Jesse &. GARDALPHE

- Chief, WED

“6S COPY

SAG wT rai
IMMA - 43249 | 5 November: 127)
aaa sR

| §0-6-122/2'

fee ee oe oe oe



14-00000 |

DISPATCH | 7

io

Chief of Station, 2 City

i
I i —_
i

Chief, Western Beaispbere Division

“SLiaison Ksowledge of the SDAFGUAN Operation
rw eS ees

REFERENCE: EXQU-41087,° 29 Sentember 1971

We noted in Reference your plan to initiate an operation
through liaison to renove the sign that has obstructed the
view from KCAPGHAN, “Beadquarters was under the impression

"that KDAFGEAN

13 not knevn to liaison. If this is not the
case, please provide us with full details on liaison's

knowledgeability concernisg this operation.

Kurt D. CUPFENDER

Distributics: Orig. & 1 - COS, Mexico City

oss RDA TO roma Som aD RE foare

= “GASrCTON re aT HOT
15 October 1971 SECRET (/50-6-122/3
7 aaenine
: BOY Ted, PH jor aa
Distribution: eae eae Pate ['ssos4
e) 1 = 1 : OORTTNATIG.
jp - Chrono oa anette
=
i = RELEASING
a oc MN Cc ar
corey | is cere bakers, “eee

SS" S39. use previous comm “

om __~__[_ DISPATCH



ot

ae | Sanasiaasasansiaaiaieaaaaann’’ 3
‘ H CusHATION OROUESSING ACO EEL
SMH ae
: ¢ X__ eo worane riauin +

Jom Quai ore
[4s 006E mrotING

Chief of Station, Mexico city et st T Gea .

seanGy TYPIC/RDAE N aes i
eh 31 December 1972

Progress Report for Period 1 October. Th
5 [ROW RGN “RUT

References: A. - HMMA-11087, 29 September 1971
‘i ~ B, MEXICO CITY 18336, 24 November 1971 a

1240, 5 November 1971,

MM¥-18065, 24 August 1970

E, “MEXICO CITY-18654, 7 January 1972

Action Required; Paragraph 9

1. Summary; Information came to light during this period
which causes the Station to belicve that KDAFGHAN may be under
the control’ of, or known to, AMSTAFF. The Station mounted an
operation to determine if this is true, but was unable to comploto
it. Our efforts continue, Details are viven below, Production
quality and the percentage of identifications increased, Costs
remained within the allowed amounts,

2. Security: ‘As Headquarters is aware, TYPIC operations at
this Station ‘have been unproductive since early 1968. Consequently,
the COS, the DCOS and, more lately, the TYPIC Chief, have begun to
plan_and work TYPIC operations on the assumption that AMSTAFF is on
tous. An incident in the KDAFGHAN operation in the past quarter
tends to add weight to our hypothesis. In submitting his Novembor
accounting KDAFGHAN-1 inadvertently included a bill for a loug-
distance call to PBRUMEN (Referenée’B). While this in-itself ig
' not enough to convict KDAFGHAN-1 (or KDAFGHAN-2, there 1s no
indication on the bill as to which one of them made the call), it
is enough to show extreme indiscretion on his part. This prompted
the Station to make « complete review of the case and to plan a CI
operation designed to show whether or not KDAFGHAN-1 and or KDAFGIIAN-2
[~ was under control of; or being monitored by, AMSTAFF.~ The results
are as follows:

Continued..........

L Distribution:
Norig. & 2 - Chief, WHD :
1 - COS, WH/Miami -cHt

ofa ny
1 lie ie oe
HMMA - 41490 ~.. --- { }1 January 1972
a —qusiTETN a a wT .
SECRET. “$0-6-122/3



DISPATCH
Roth
a.
b.

CONTINUATION OF 1 eens i

SAMSTAFF control. Assuming that

* been paying the rent on a vacant apartment directly

UqaseFICATION DIAPATEN Sy MBOU AND NUNOER

S ECR HMMA = 41490

showed:

The agent was originally a walk-in to the former
JKLANCE Station in Navana, . He was later referred
to this Station, This in itself is enough to make
him suspect

He still has close relatives’ in PBRUMEN and corre-
spouds witli.these relatives by letter - and probably
by telephoic. Four of these relatives are the sisters
O£ KDAFGHAN-2:and the threat of pressure on these
would-.probably be enough to make her subject to
MQUAKE contrels all
‘, they would sean

mail and telephone calls to PBRUM
come across the fact that KDAFGHAN-1 and 2 live
directly. across the street from ANFINK, At the last
meeting with KDAFGHAN-1 he mentionod that they were
still corresponding with some twenty relatives in
PBRUMEN and they with him, ‘This increases the odds
that AMQUAKE has uncovered them. We have no idea how
long this correspondence has been going on but assume
that it has been long enough to have been uncovered.

Since -tho incident mentioned in Reference C, we can
further assume that AMQUAKE has made some, if not a

determined, effort’ to locate the KDAFGIAN site. . This
is confirmed by our recent discovery that AMFINK has

across from their entrance for the past two years.
This is a building formerly occupied by KDAFGIAN-1
and.2, Only within the last two weeks has an AMFINK
employee moved into this site, It would also be
relatively casy for AMFINK to check all possible OP
sites. If they did, and encountered a PBRUMEN exile
with family still within PBRUMEN, we are afraid that
the conclusion is’ self-evident. On this particular
point we are now particularly struck by KDAFGHAN-1's
repeated and unsolicited assurances that AMFINK has

no idea whery the KDAFGHAN site is located, Ife’ has
backed up this claim with photos of various AMFINK
employees and visiters shaking their fists at the
formex site. Iindsight now leads us also to conclude
that it would be a very easy matter to investigate

and determine who had moved out of the former site and
where they now were,, If this has been done, KDAFGHAN-1
would stick out like the! proverbial sore thumb, We
now conclude that Reference D was, unfortunately,

only too correct.

While it has always been’ the practice of the Station
to sterilize all photographs, given LNERGO or shown

to assets (including KDAFGHAN photos), there is still
a possibility that inisuse of KDAFGHAN photographs by
either JKLANCE or LNERGO over the years may have also
been a contributing factor. We note that they were
shown to’ KDTUCK-+ on various occasions in the ‘past and
that-he has been recently terminated because of our
doubts about him.

Continued. ........

Use PREVIOUS EDITION. SECRET

an —SERSHFIGATISN TEASERS:

connmern | 2 of 4



TW EVMEST AND FUME

. CONTINUATION OF nae
DISPATCH U

lint 41490

e. The simple length of time that. this agent has been
in operation could also bo considered’ as a possible
factor in exposing him sooner or later? We also
note. in passing that his homs telephone line shares
the same pole distribution box as that of the AMFINK
consulate.

One .item that- becomos evident when reviewing KDAFGHAN

files is his repeated failure (with some few

“i exceptioas) to get photographs of suspects or agents
that the Station knows visited AMFINK while’ he was
purportedly. on watch.

A. ,Given-the above’ the’ Station decided to mount an operation

vdesignedsto determine once. and for all if the KDAFGHANS wore
cither under ‘control ‘by. ANSTAFF or Lf their activities were being
monitored’ by: audio coverage of the Safchouse or OP site. The
DCOS designed a sophisticated scenario to be played out by the
Case Officer which would, one by one, eliminate or prove each of
the above possibilities. No other Station assots were used, this

- to eliminate any possibility that they might be the source of a
jeak.' Without going into a mass of detalls, the plan basically
involved letting enough information slip bit by bit to KDAFGHAN-1
so that: he,“or some AMSTAFF Case Officer on the other end, would
Guan fhe wanted conclusion;. namely, that 201-327262 was working
for us. Unfortunately, just as wo Kot into the preliminary stages
of the plan, 201-327262 was recalled, It 1s our opinion that the
operation had not yet gone far cnough to consider this recall as
proof of ow suspicions, but that it was mere coincidence, How-
ever, two points that arose during this operation do bother us.
At one.mecting KDAFGHAN-1 mentioned (or tet slip) that the AMFINK
chauffeur had gone on vacation, whilo the Station was aware of
this we are hard put to understand how ho knew it. ‘Then, during
the: same conversation with the Case Officer (perhaps realizing
his mistake?) KDAFGHAN-1 began to backtrack and started to taik
about how he "thought" the chauffeur, "might have" gone on vacation.
The second point ts that he almost invariably veports within a
few days when an ANFINK employee drops out of sight. He has yet
to mention. the departure of 201-327262, This attempt by the
Station to resolve the matter having come to an inconclusive end,
we ave “starting over again and will soon begin another similar

operation,

5. Plans: We are working undey tho assumption that ANQUAKE/
AMSTAFF either looked fov and found KDAFGIIAN-1 or that they found
him through checking out bis mail ‘and calls to and from relatives
in PBRUNEN. We -are further assuming that they then either doubled
him or KDAFGHAN-2 or that they are successfully monitoring the
operation through a combination. of physical and audio surveillance
(we uote the fairly recent arrival of .an AMFINK referred to as
vel tecnico” ~ 201-886735.- whom we believe to be the younger
brother of 201-812106. The latter, our records show, was last
known to be the chief of the JKLANCE section of AMSTAFF.) While
KDAFGHAN-1, and KDAFGIAN-2, will obviously have to-be terminated,
we first intend to do our best to prove our hypothesis: If this
can be done, we may be able to put this to our advantage. In the
meantime, he will be handled under the strictest of compertmen-
tation. He will be given no further lookout assignments, be giveX//
no'indications of our particular interests in any individual
AMFINKS ov their activities and, obviously, we will not proceed
with. the plans for the audio operation which we suggested in

Continued.......

nae Tae ‘CLASSIFICATION

USE PREVIOUS EDITION. SECRET



FSFTeaT OT | ONAN oy wot and NUMBOR

CONTINUATION OF
CISPATCH

SECRET

peer aphs 4°16 of Reference A. We wili start_a.search for a
replacement s 8 Nead@iarters Indic

they z tho -coner o
(UE Statton~per EIST. We: iiveng “vo continuet NandIe
the agent just as before, indicating our greatest confidence in
him. We will proceed to imprave his equipment and. operation and.
go ahead with the planned technical consultation (Reference E)

fo demonstrate this. No sensitive equipment ov information will
‘be ‘involved, We further ‘intend to SGSWIRL this agent at the: first
opportunity. lo was Yast SWIRLED on 18 April 1967.

Ef 6, “Other Operational Developrionts: Other than the above,
the operation continued as-usual., The Case Officer had another
dawn to midnight ‘stay :with-the Agent to observe AMFINK and its
activitiés and “to work with the: Agent on impvoving -his production,
Quality of the Photographs has improved: and identification of the
PBRUMEN-visitors has, with the use of KDGLACIER passport photos
increased drastically -.we are now hitting over eighty percent
-Adentificattion of TDYers and transit personnel. The Planned MO
studies mentioned in paragraph 12 of Reference A have not been’ as
successful as was hoped for. KDAFGUAN-1 and 2 are so set in the
routine they have established over the years that the above
mentioned instructions to change their way of operation have met

with vesistance. This is being overcome. ‘The one outstanding
event of the period was our obtaining a photo of S¥CEMENT-G's
alternate courier (to which KDAFGHAN-1 had Rot been alerted).

7. Agent Personnel: No changes. The break in their regular
routine oc by “our requests for more work on theix part
and by the oxtra and irregularly scheduled meetings caused by
Duy SE operation seemed to. have increased KDAFGIAN-1's already
bad stute of nerves, Tne Case Officer sent him-on a threes day
vacation to Acapulco to calm him down - and it did somewhat.

8. Administrative/Finances: No changes.

tion Require:

t

9. Head

) a. Advise if Headquarters concurs with the Station as
to the desirability of continuing with this type 6f°
operation after the projected termination of the
KDAFGHANS,

Suggestions are solicited,

c, Please retrace all known relatives of KDAFGHAN-1

7 b. Please pass this dispatch to the JMROD unit. Their
and 2 and advise the Station of the results,

ral £—~
SOS Ko kte-

Oe eass R. GARDALPHE

aa i CLASSIFICATION . naz
rons i '
53a use previous romrion, SECRET lhe connmurs | fof 4



“asain

OP GH |e a

| uniek of Station, Mexico
{thie uf Station, wii/Miani

|
|
= A

Chief, Western iiéni

meats en Proposal to Ter
and Recruit: New uP Site Ted

MAR 2 2 1972
MiCROFILMED

REFERENCES: © A. MEXICO CITY 18887
B, DIRECTOR 228192 j
C. HEMA $1590, -11 January 1972

1. As a result of the disturbing information contained in
» Reference C, we undertook a reasonably thorough review of the CI
aspects of. this project as contained‘ in Headquarters files. We
came up with no now insights into the security problem outlined
in Reference C that are not already known to the Station. We
commend the Station for its thorough CI roview of this ‘project
and the positive efforts being taken to inpr its’ security, )
While the positive results of KDAFGIAN. IkL (per Reference
| A) suggests that he is probably not actively cooperating with i

| ACTION : Paragraph §

ANSTAFF against BKTRUST, PBRUMEN oxile status, the long perio
of time he his’ been operating his OP site in close proximity to.
the PBRUMEN Enbassy and the potential (perhaps inmediate) danger
presented by his and XDAFGIAN-2's PBRUMEN relatives, make it clear

H that this team must eventually b phased out, whether or not
replacements can be recruited, e defor to the Station concerning

| how. bost to implement this termination and strongly concur with

r the Station's attempts to prevent KDAFGHAN-1 and 2 fron reaching

} the conclusion that they are no longer trusted by RKTRUST. As. the
Station has indicated, aa overlap between the new and old OP sites
is highly desirable. Presumably, the Station will continue its
efforts to determino whether or not KDAFGHAN*1 hay been “doubled”

\ or is being monitored by ANSTAFF (the latter appears more likely,
if AMSTAFF is indeed on to the KDAFGHANs).

CONTINUED. . .

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig § 1 - COS, Mexico City
2 - COS, RH/Miani

att

Ra eT 613273
27a S

SBCRET
a ORIGINATING
TY orice =~ est : : oa
Distribution: 1_John#Beckwith:jm (yped 6 March 72) | 6954
1 - WH/1 COOROINATING.
1 - WH/COoG sas pate OFICER S NAME

1 - IP/Files

hall (in draft) _

i)
f __|Red

FT:

az

SPT ee rece esenrerec:


us
14-00000 Wy
h

1

i ;

H 2. While ‘reviewing this activity, we were struck by H

| the thought which has urred: to others in the past, .as :

H fo why [KDAFGHAN-1, an educated and reportedly intelligent
{ | individual, has been willing to devote the last ten years
ie to this dull and very routine effort. It fs cifticalt to :
H draw. 2. Completely satisfying answer to this question from -
} the files, The security aspects aside, the Station is

1 probably doing KDAFGHAN-1 a favor, in terms of his aental
| health, by forcing hin to look outside his small and

insular world and séek a new fora of employment. The
frequent references to KDAFGHAN-1's pent up nervousness
contained. in the Station's re jorting indicates that
KDAFGIIAN- 1's -obsession with his work may finally be catch-
ing up with him. +]

3. While we are more than a little ambivalent concern-
- ing the over-all value of this activity as presently consti-
tuted, given the priority need for Coverage of the AMSTAFF
Personnel stationed ‘at: the PBRUMEN Embassy and the relative
dearth of PBRUMEN target access agents, we believe that -this
iH activity should be continucd. We share the Station's concern
about our inability to identify the photographs of non;
PBRUMEN personnel who visit the Embassy or Consulate, but
appreciate the difficult technical problens involved. On a
More positive note, the recent group of photographs of
7 PBRUMEN Embassy staffers forwarded to Headquarters for review |
by AMBEDEW-1 and AMWIIEN: 1 (the latter has not yet been
1 “completed) were of high quality. As a result of the high
quality of these photographs, ANREDEW-1 was able to identity H
still another AMSTAFFer assigned to the Embassy, We assume
from the contents of Reference C that when and if a new OP it
site team has been recruited and a new site obtained, further
efforts will be made by the Station to increase the identifi-
cation of. visitors to the PBRUME: installation concerned, I
Meanwhile, the high rate of identification of PBRUMEN visitors
ns | to.the Embassy currently being achieved by the Station testifies
to your determined efforts to obtain the maxinum “take” from
{ this operation,

to continue this oneration and to improve the identification
: of non-PBRUMEN visitors to the PBRUMEN Embassy. We concur
with ‘the Station's plans to terminate KDAFGHAN-1 and 2 at an
appropriate time after a new QP site tean has been recruited
and trained and a new OP site obtained. Per Reference 5, we
will trace KDAFGHAN-1 and 2's relatives residing in PBRUMEN
once their names and addresses have been forwarded by the

: Station. We discussed this operation with the JMROD unit and
! it was decided that XDAFGHAN-1 and 2 are not suitable for
JMROD purposes. |

|
i
{
[
i
j
|
i S. Action Requested: Paragraph 4 above. i
I
|
|
|

i

! : i
4. In conclusion, we concur with the Station's plans |

i

|

Grover E, CAITHAMER id

PRASSIFCATION

FORM
64 533 use previous eoirion,

Ureeeeeee peed $B RET.



[DISPATCH [nnn

e Division

Chief, Western Hemtspt

jer coup one
Chief, WOACRE | LOURNE ATLAS

ry

Chicf of Station, Mexico City §

sn

KDAFGHAN Progress Report
ACTON RiQuinNS ee ere nats
Action Required: Paragraph 16 (WOACRE)

A duly ~ 30 september 1971

Daring the yveporting period this Project coutinued
KDAFGHANS continued to provide the Station with
aphic coverage of visitors to the Cuban Embassy... A new case
took over’ the Project at the berionding of the period and has
spent the major part of his meetings with KDAF land 2 on dis-
cussing aid plauniiy ways to improve the percentage of identifleatious
made by them. What follows is a descriptton of the Operation as it
now stands and the Station's plans to improve it, =

Bete

xe of the cnutrance

2. Pi
9200 to 1800 (the

to tie Cuban imbassy
approximate hour at’ whi + ptevent further
Photoxraphy with the present equipment.) Embassy hours are O800-

2100, approximately. KDAFGHAN-L provides the majority of the
power, with KDAFGHAN-2 filling in for rest breaks, lunch and while
KDAFGUAN=1 processes the previous day's take. The general practice
is to observe the entrance witiout optical assistance until a person
or vehicle is seen to be entering or leaving the wate area, The
vestricted size of the aperture possible in the OP for this viewing
(a rectangular opening approximately four by five inches) prevents
simultaneous viewkng of any other area of the coxpoun?t, When a
tarvet is seen, the observer shifts his head a few inches to the
veflex. finder of the camera and is given a 20 X magnification of
the target. This is more than adequate tov identification of any
target. If the target is unknown and/or a previous photograph has
not been taken, the observer takes one, At the same time he recor
the time of arxival/departure, whether the target is known or
unknown, and records any obvious identifying data such as license
plate, apparent nationality, apparent occupation, etc, Ia addition

Continued......,
Attachments:

A - as stated h/w

& ~ as Stated u/s/e —

PPIAN Poet o>

Distribution:
VOrig. & 2- Chief, wHp
1 - Chief,

A and Bh/w & usc)
fats.) <1 are

ALATT
ROS BERNE IS

Septenvex

| SECRET ¥ 50-86-1223



CONTINUATION OF acini
OISPATCH

to the above general visual surveillance, ‘the j

occastonally provided with photographs of targets tie: Siatron
7 believes might visit’ the! compound and on whom we wish a specific
oe ; alert ~ such as visiting’ agent personnel and third country
ibversTOS known oF believed té-be in the area. Each day,
AFGHAN-1 processes his notes and the photographs taken and
Wally then! to the Station in the following form (one day's
production is illustratediin Attachment A):

a. A timetable of arrivals ‘and departures (the number
in the Ieft margin indicates that a photograph was
taken),

b. The. original negative. The daily average seems to
be about cightcen photographs.

A contact print of the above negatives (the inked
numbers on the photogiaphs correspond to the
marginal; numbers on the report).

d. Enlargements of selected subjects. (not included).

3. THE AGENT PERSONNE GARDALPHE spent one day, from
0845 to 1900; insTde the OP, observing the agents and thetr
Foutine.. Both secm to have adapted to a very boring routine
quite well. Their eyesight, which has been the subject of quite
| a féw off-the-Fecord comments at both Headquarters and at the
Station (viz, that they are blind), was checked out thoroughly,
but innocuously, by asking them who such and such a person was
at the gate or in photos and by asking them to read some very
suall print film-processing instructions. While KDAFGHAN-2's
eyesight is definitely poorer than that of KDAFGUAN-1, she easily
identified the subjects and was able to read the test literature
with no problem, She was observed carefully while manning the
OP and she missed no one in that one and one-half hour period,
Previous cases of missing Known targets scheduled to visit the
Exbassy are more probably the result of boredom and a resultant
lack of attention.» Their job requires them to be hermits, They
have very few friends and even fewer visitors. To break them out
of this rut, the Station will soon start altering their work
hours to provide move extended coverage of the target, and give
them more interesting work to do. :

4, PRESENT KDAFGHAN FACILITIES AND EQUTPME! The present
OP is loca the roof of a three-story apartment house
located about eighty yards from the compound catrance (see
| Attachment B). Concealment is excellent. Windows on other

floors allow visual observation of most of the compound facing

the OP and of the entrance to the Consulate. tlowever, they do
not permit photography, except on a selected basis, because of
the concealment problem. The UP proper is’. small bathroom
about five by six fect in what used to be-the maid's quarters,
A captain's chair, the tripod, camera, lens and a small worktable
have been fitted in between the various plumbing figtures.
Adjacent to this is another 1oom of approximately twice the size
which contains a desk, cot, the printer and’a wardrobe for
storing photographic materials. This room aas a large picture
wiadow overlooking the entrance to the Consulate.

Continued

“[RACENG.
| 2of 6

— ~ TLASSIFICATION
roa

Lc itiaeel tertsabaokacenidiceataa SECRET isl conTINUED



CONTINUATION OF i

DISPATCH

5. The photographic equipsent used-by the KDAFGHANS at
present consists of a Bausch and Lomb spotting scope with 20-X
cyepivce, and a Pentax H-3- camera, This-equipment fs not
satisfactory (see below). cept for the printer, all darkroom
equipnent 43, Vocated in a darkroom on the first floor. The
darkroom ¢
attempt to conceal the. darkroom, His cover for
that it is his hobby.

well. cquipped and adequate. KDAFGHAN-L makes no
the darkroom is

G. STATE PROCESSING OF -THE

tables are [lled a proc P:
is looking for confirmation ot an ag nt report or a‘surveillance
report, they are sometimes consulted... About every year they are
shipped to Headquarters for retention in the Archives. The
negatives and contact prints are handled in the same way!

7,. The enlarged, photographs are processed in the following
way?
Certain photographs of unidentified persons are
sterilized and forwarded to the local office of

LNERGO. The Station receives no feedback or
identification of these individuals trom LNERGO.

b. Photographs of PCS or known TOY ssy personnel
are kept and used for identification purposes at
the Station and some are forwarded to Headquarters
for the same reason,

c, Photographs of other identified persons arc placed
in Station personality files.

d, All other photographs (the major portion) are simply
destroyed.

8. LNERGO was recently queried on the value of this
operation to them. They replied, "(these photographs) are
compared with the photographs of known leaders of extremist
groups in WOCORK as well as with photographs of persons who are
subjects of Identification Ovders prepared on badly wanted
fugitives in WOCORK. It is requested, therefore, that you
continue this service if it does not cause problems oy unusual
costs to your office." While this project may be of some value
to LNERGO, it is of little value, as presently constituted, to
the Station. "Thtveare other, and cheaper, means of obtaining
photographs of PCS and TDY personnel. No identification or
operational use is made of the photographs of the unidentified
subjects - at least by JKLANCE = and no operational use is made
of the timetable. “For instance, license plate numbers are not
now traced as either a possible means of identification, or
leads to CI ov recruitment targets. A previous effort at
analyzing the timetable for possible patterns of activity was
unproductive and has not been repeated. Only in selected
instances do we try to correlate the information received from
KDBADGER coverage of the Embassy and that provided by the
KDAFGHANS. But generally this has not been successful, since
most often people with previous appointments are going to the
Consulate (which we do not cover with XDAFGHAN), or too many
unidentified people arrive around thé same time at the gate,
precluding a positive identification. While the above evaluation

Continued. ..eeee

roan
eat
ery

53a

TRAGENO.
3 of 6

ierereneesi CLASSIFICATION

T
use rrevious coinion, |
i CONTINGED

|
SECRET _ : : {



sain
TBST ATS TT

~ AL 087

CONTINUATION OF
une

sore Tike 2 project terminstion request than a progress

the Station does belleve that this. project could be made
productive 1f not. extremely valuable to both JKLANGE and LNERGO
if faces ‘could be related to’ names and other operational leads
inherent in the KDAFGHAN production were abstracted and: fo] lowed
out. Our plans to do so are outlined below.

9. PLANS: Technical quality needs to be. improved, Tho
présent enlargements are only poor to fair in quality. ‘This is
due'to the lens now in use, which only has an effective! aperture
of. f-22, Tho Station WOACRE officer will soon initiate'corre-
Spondence..to.obtain a better lens. which-will not only
hisher,.quality.‘photds,- but exte c
darkness of twilight by. increasing the light-xathering éapability
of the camera. A camera with a behind the lens light moter will
be used from ‘now on to prevent underexposures in poor Light
conditions. “The présent enlarger lens has a fungus growth which
lowers photographic quality, This will be repaired or replaced.

10, Since the move to this OP,-a street sign in tho line
of sight to the target area obstructs or spoils over half of the
photographs, This prevents the Station from using the photo-
graphs with, agent personnel-or contacts.who.might be able to
identify the subject of. the photograph. . For, unless heavily
‘sterilized, 1t provides a very casy means of identifying! where
the photograph was takon, and’ conceivably, by using a theodilite,
determining the exact. location of the OP. An operation, | through
ag pslistson, to remove this obstruction has been initiated. i]

vg 11. Identification of PCS personnel, out-bound TDY:and in=

F transit passengers can easily be raised to near one-hundyed
| percent, The Station will arrange for our current KDGLACIER

| passport coverage to be passed on a routine basis to KDAFGHAN
fand, using these, he should be able to identity all of the
subjects that fall in the above category, He will also ‘be
jinstructed to start a photo file on all TDY and in~transit
personnel and, as he builds this base up, he should be able to
‘identify mre and-more of the in-bound in-transit person
Consideration is also being given to have him develop and process
these passport photos for both himself and the Station, This
would not only speed up identification of these subjects - and
the exploitation”of possible ops leads - but. relieve the' Station
Technician and Support Section of some of their work Loa,

12, The exploitation of potential operational leads; through
the-compilation of data on license plates, servicemen, known
visitors and arrival and departure times, has previously’ been
tried by the Station on a sporadic basis with ne success.) This
is primavily due to the fact that the workload involved on
Station personnel has prevented a continuing effort. Since
KDAFGIAN-L and 2 are underworked (and would probably welcome
some change in their incredibly boring routine), this job(will
be given to them. ‘They will be required to submit monthly

reports on: 1

i
a. All vehicles that call at the compound (frequency
figures).

b. All service calls.

c. All visitors and or servicemen who get inside the
compound . i
Continued

ae T CASSIFIERTION P=
Fon |
53a 0 use previous coirion, |

ou i SECRET-~



SINE AR eT

= dtos7

“COMES eatien rr

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH ia

CRET

ad. ALL visitors and or servicemen who get inside the
gate,

e. Compiled statistics on the td and departure
time (and method) -of each known or suspect intelli-=
kence officer.

This should considerably improve the station's ability to exploit
- any leads that might arise, ee a

13. The one problem area remaining, and the ‘one whére we
Stand to strike the most "pay-dirt” is that. of identitying the
photographs: of non-Cuban personnel who visit the Embassy or the
Consulate. "While, true, we are unlikely to identify any Dor
agent personnel or “illegals, we would be most likely to obtain
Adentification “of subversives traveling to Cuba and on local
sympathizers or contacts who could possibly serve as access
fxents. “Linking unknown facés ‘to names can only be done by
technical means. The target situation and our Proposed means
of attack are given below. :

14. Since the wrival of the new Dat Chief of Center and
the DSE security officer last yoar, security atthe Cubans Embassy
and Consulate has_tightene stically. XNetal shutters have

Bee ee has but one Of the windows in the area suspected

“.of being the NGI center, Not even a crack of light now stiows
from. these windows at night. The entire compound and the sur-
Founding wall have been floodlighted. In KDAFGHAN's words, "the
only shadows in the place now are during the daytime” The
formeropen grill gate to the automobile entrance has been, re~
placed by an electrically operated solid metal garage door,
Passerbys can no longer look into the coupound. or gatchouse and
KDAFGHAN can no longer observe the latter. The door inte the
gatehouse, which is in the outer wall alongside the autonoblio
entrance, flas been changed to a heavy metal door with a one-way
mirvor for observation, No vehicles except those belonging to
tho Embassy are now allowed inside. All delivery trucke must
park outside and carry theiiv.items inside. comp. ly_new,
and unknown, telephone system has been installed. Access control
is now rigorous, When a visitor now calls at the Embassy ho
must ring the doorbell, wait for the door to be opened slightly,
and, if he is not recognized, announce his name and business.
The door is then shut in his face, the gatekeeper calls the
person he wants to See and the person is then either let in'or
turned away. If lot in he no longer is allowed into _t)

N+ Compound - with Some Tew rare o: ts
a> Tovmer gatehouse which has ju eception

aveg- “The person he came to he ‘Yeceptisi area
and interviews him there. Very rarely is the visitor let into
the compound. If the visitor calls at the Consulate he may
freely entex that one room on the ground floor, bub is allowed
no further. Usually the secretary handles all’ requests. Some
times a visitor to the Consulate who requires an interview sith
one of the consuls is taken or sent to the Embassy entrance

~@ [ite interviewed in that area. Our chanees of, implanting an audio

"

device inside the Embassy, the Consulate, or the gatehouse with
our current assets and under these conditions is nill.

15. There are Seven telephone lines into the Cuban
compound, ve of these go directly to the Ambassador's office,
the Cultural Office, the Press Office, the Commercial Office i
and the Consulate. As far-as we know, the DSI center has no:

~ Continued

SE! 53a use pnevious corrion. SECRE



CONTINUATION OF

IFICATION

OISPATCH

SECRET

—

direct lines,
in the xatenou F
of two-thousand calts each per month, Many times, in reading
the take, we note that a person will-cal] and say that he is

coming by at a certain time - o.ho will be called and told to

average

MAEN the pect tain timc. [f KDAFGHAN could corelate those calts
“with the photographs he: takes. he could make many identifications
“whlch, in turn, could bé-explotted by other Station assets,

KOSLACIER, or, LNERGO, Even of. more assistance would bo ty
miking" of these lines? That.way we could not only identify any
caller to ‘the Consulate or gatehouse, but also who the gatekeeper

* alls: inside -to- announce the visitor, In addition, we would also

expect to pick up quite a bit of conversation of interest, for the

“gatcholse seems to be a favorite hangout inthe Embassy for DGI

personnel. KDAFGHANS 1 and 2, being experienced LP operators,
could casily handle the. take’ KDAFGHAN-1, being fluent in English,
dalso..handle the English’ language portions of any take ~

which in view of ‘the ‘number of English-speaking visitors would

probably be considerable.:

1G. Therefore, wo request that we he advised what technical
information is necessary for WOACRE to determine the feasibility
of @ hot mike installation into the gatehouse and Consulate
(assuming no‘access to the Anstyruments) serviced by an LP located
inthe” cus'rent “KDAFGIAN OP. nthe meantime, we will investigate
the possibility of tapping one of the gatchouse telephones
Curvently monitored by KDBAUGER and running it into the KDAFGHAN
OP whore it will not only be transcribed but live monitored.

AT PR Production figures for this poriod were
novinal. — KDAFGI ovided an average of 600 contact prints and
150 enlargements per month.” No new identifications wore made.

18. ADMINISTRATIVE: ‘There were no changes in costs or
io '

personnel during this pc

19. SECURITY: There were no security incidents during this
period, To improve security, mectings have been reduced to an
To nee OF one every two weeks. Use of the safchouse is now held
fo, minimum and wherever. possible meetings are by car pickup.
While KDAFGHAN-1's cover for his darkroom is that it is supposedly
his hobby, thére is not one photograph or camera visible anywhere
in his house... He has been instructed to correct thie deficiency.

Po

Form
oven
oy

53a

ue.
euasarieaTion T— jan | BREEN
F ih

Use previous eortton SECRET SO onc | 8 of 6

50



July lst., 1971
Coverage: 9:00 to 18:00
Photo # Hour View
: 9:02 Green Ford arrived with Angel & wife - thye left at 1:55
902. White Vw-PSA left with Abelardo - he ret. at 9:08 with Saker
92:03. Waiquiria arrived i
9:06 New car arrived with Mirabal - he left at 12:37
9:08 Jesus arrived in a taxi ‘i
9:14 Green Torino arrived with Cortina
9:19 White Vw PSA left with Abelardo - ret. 9:38
9:19 Green Ford left with Orestes - ret. al10:32
9:20 Aurora left in a taxi - ret. at 1:35 - left at 2:26
9233 Black Pord left with Sosa ~ ret. 10:36 - left 11:18 - ret. 11:52
9:52 White Vw arrived with Heriberto - left 1:10 - ret. at 5:12.

1 9:52 Mm foing in - Aserican? ~ left at 10:08
9:57 Green Torincs left vith Masvidal & Rolando Roérijuez - ret. 11119
2 9:58 Man leaving - ret. at 11:27

‘ 10:02 Grey Pontiac left with Sanchez eretf1l 228-leftl2:15 - ret. 12:45
10:09 White Vw PSA left with Ahelardo & Heriberto = ret. 12:02 (Abelardo)

3 10:27 Man sent to the Consulate
10:30 Blue Torino arrived with Barrera & a man
4 10:36 Lady who came in creen Vw No. JEY-S8 ~brought packages - often
10:46 Blue Torino left with Capote & Mendez - ret. at 12:02
5 10:48 Man going in _
6 10:53 2 ladies & a man going in - left at 11:06 :
11:14 White Vw left with Eeriberto & Consuelo ~ he ret, 12:42 ~~
7 11:17 Young man bringing movie filme

_ &10 11:30 2 men leaving with Ignacio Acosta
11:31 Green Torino left with Reyes & woman = ret. atli55

‘ 11 11:44 Lady sent to the Consulate
11:48 Tomas Rodriguez arrived - left at 12:26
12 12:07 Mm who ‘came in car plate No. R J H ~ delivered envelope

13-15 12:15 2 men: &'a lady Reaving |
12:22 White. Vw PSA lett with Abelardo — ret. at 1357
12:23 Green. Ford lef: with Capo, Jesus & Rolando Rodriguez ~ ret. 1:45

12:34 Black Ford left with Ambassador, Armenteros & Sosa

ce ty so" b 73/9



16
17
18
19

20-21

+ 12923
24

July let., 1972 |

12:53 Man at the deor .

12153 Blue Ford arrived with Valdes

12:53 Man leaving
12:55 Man going in

1100

“12s

1:25
2:55
2314

“2319

2:19
2121
23822
2:26
2:41
2242
2248
4226
§312
5:28
5333
5333
5243
51:52

Man sent to the Consuk te !

Tomas Alvarez drove car in - left at 1146 j

Men going in - left at 1:42 |
Rolando Rodriguez |

Mrs. Car tina. or Mrs. Reyes? i

2'imen who came for Nasvidal in a Yellow car plate No. HXB-37
Grey Pontiac left with Capo & Sanchez ~ ret. at 5:12 i

Blue Ford left with Valdes, wfe & Watquiria - ret. 5? 42\with Adie
Biue Torino left ith Sarrera & wife L

Luis deft - ret. at 5:14 :

Green Torino left with Cortina, Reyes & wives = ret. at 4:58
White Vw PSA left with Abelardo & wife - ret. at 5:03 ;

Saker & Jorge left by foct ~ ret. at 4:19 t

Jesus & wife arrived by frot :

Green Porinoleft with Cortina & Capote f

White Vw left with Heriberto & Jesus - Jesus ret.5 57 in! his car
White Yr PSA left with Apelardo & Rolando Rodriguez |

Grey Pontiac deft with Capo & Sanchez
Blue Pord left with Adis & Dora
Olga, Marta's mothers & others rex arrived by foot

Sy, Se ely





DISPATCH [ se |

Stern Hemisphere Division

Chicf of Station, Mexico Citys |

Pong
QXDAFGIAN Operations Report - March through May 1971 (Project Renewal)

[Action REQUIRED - RETIRINCIS

8. HMMW-17977, 30 June 1970

1
References: A. HMMA-40299, 24 March 1971 {
|

1. As reported in paragraph 1, of Reference A, this |
Operations Report is intended to contribute the necessary |
information for the Project Renewal to cover Fiscal Year 1972,

BACKGROYND
4 2. There was no change in the information contained in
paragraph 2, Reference A, for the period covered in this report.

op

3. No change since Reference A report.

4. In addition to the normal photographic coverage of the
KDACOUSTIC installation, KDAFGUAN-1 and KOAFGHAN-2 provided |
specific coverage for the various KDACQUSTIC-3 operations. |
(MECICO CITY-16535,; 7 May 1971). This coverage enabled the
Station to determine KDACOUSTIC-3's and his wife's movements,
an important factor in timing KDACROBAT-12's calls and visit to
: KDACOUSTIC-3's home. Other Significant results of the KDAFGUAN

operation include photographic information on specific visitors
to the KDACOUSTIC installation of special interest to the
LNERGO office. This information consists of photoxraphs o
individuals and, when available, photozraphs of vehicles and U.S.
license plates. One stich recent incident involved an old LNERGO

-

Continued.s... sj.

Distribution:
dovig. & 2 - Chief, WHD i

CS.cOrY

HMMA - 40537
TRATae

OISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMER aie i i

a
om
°
2
I
3

£

i



SLRS EATON

SECRET

tarcet who had been seen visiting the KDACOUSTIC ‘ang MAHARSIL,
installations. KDAFGHAN-1 successfully identified the individual.
Once during the reporting period KUAFGHAN-i passed quickly I
Anforfiation on a suspect student political leader visiting the
KDACOUSTIC installation, We in turn ‘passed on the + ovmation

to the, KDCALVERT teadi soon enough so that the team vas able. to

follow the suspect leader home, and eventually identity him)’
Also, ‘the Station was able to identify the Jobs of most of the
Large number of new KDACOUSTIC, employees by KDAFGHAN-1 photo>
graphs .and personal observations. Normally vo have been ablo

eaeetch movements of new and old employees during the initial
period when duties and contacts were being turned over to the.
new employees and so identify their duties. te

COVER and SECURITY 1

5, No change since Reference A report.

4
ELNANCES fee)
-
6. Te following is a breakdown of the KDAFGHAS financial
requiroments for Fiscal Year 1972: 1
Fy.1971 FY 1972 Fy. 1973
Estimated Request Projection
Obligations a
7
KDAFGHAN-1 Salary $ 4,800 $ 5,088" $ 5,088
KvarGHAN-2 Salary 1,920 2,112« 2,112
Christmas, Bonus 560 609 1, 600%
: 1,200 1,200 1,200
it

KDAFGHAN Baschouso Rent
(observation post)

KDAFGHAN Safehouse 864
(for, Station meetings
with KDAFGH: 1)

utilities for Safechouse
and Basehouse |

Miscellaneous Expenses 1,250 1, 230 1,250
(film, paper, chemicals, i
stationary) . |

1,220 1,200

500 500 500

TOTALS $11,094 $11,950 $11,950

*Increases reflect the “cost-of-living” granted to some Station
assets effective 1 January 1971. i
!

FOREIGN CURRENCY

7. No change since Reference A.
COMMITMENTS i

8, KDAFGHAN-1 dnd KDAFGHAN-2 receive one month's salary
as a Christmas bonus. KDAFGHAN'1 is reimbursed for operational
expenses related to the Project. \

9, No change from paragraph G, Reference A..

ACCOUNTING

10. "The same as paragraph 7, Reference A.

53a

PAGE NO.
nevious coven | ret eee | of 3



|
¥ * : '

CERES ATEATION

CONTINUATION OF 7 1
DISPATCH SECRET HMMA - 40537).

ANNEXES : if

ll. None ‘i ‘

Dedb Feller gor

Gerald D. FAHLANGER

4

if v 5
4 tate a2.@
er i as
vot PaLvioUs EOITION, SECRET see HF Hammt



. Dora f=

SECRET
Chief, Wy,

anes

NO NOHHING rower’
Jonty Quai ore 1
eam 1oce wots,

Chief of statidan iextco ct ty

|
a i
Chu f

: mn
~KOAFGHAN Progress Re; rt = Octobe 7
fssesP ARR Peosress Report > october 970

through February 1971)!

Halt
Reference: HMMA-39611.- 14 Oztober 1970 |
1

1 oo tiS PFoxress roport will cover KDAYGHAN
the period October 1970 through February 197]
Yeport will include the project 1
mitted during May 1971,

activity for,

The next progress
enewal request and will be sub-

BACKGROUND

2. The KDAFGI 3 Provided fixed photographic cov.
of the PBRUMEN Bubassy (and“of the PRRUMEN Consulate for part
the period) since the submission of tie last progress report in|:
yeference. ‘the only major change during this perlod was the Hl
installation for a period of ole month of a TV-monitor/robot camera
Combination to cover the PBRUIIEN Consulate. This was done on‘a!
trial basis to cover a greater area of PBRUMEN activities. The |:
KDAPGHAN Baschouse: was ‘given additional requirements during October
1970, the month designated as PBRUNEN onthe j

OPE

TLONAL DEVELOPMENTS - OPERATIONAL MEET

NGS AND SECURITY

handler of KDAFGHAN-1. He has met and could meet KDAFGHAN-2 in
an emergency. The alternate Case Officer is Terence D. SISTONE
Who meets KDAFGHAN-1 when FANLANGER is not available, Both

FANLANGER and SISTONE ave known in alias, and both meet KDAPGHAN=T
in a safchouse. During February 1971 the safehouse was changed. |

|
3. Gerald D. FANLANGER continues to be the Case Officer and
1

Continued...

Distribution;
VOvig. & 2- Chief, WHD

£3 f0Py

] Sseatce Seago ano wimeee

oan
HMMA - 40299 | 24 March 1971

tasimeTR [rarer waa =
! SECRET ! YSouo-120/3



[oir TET TOC

Twas 4

© frequent contact

Meetings are generally heid once a week: Mo
can be made by telephone, For priority operational report is
KDAFGIAN-L goes to a payphone in the area (there wre several)
and télephones the office, relaying the message. | ile identifies
himself bv first sane on tran soney, one can call
KDAFCHAN 2 at his home and give him instructions, | phrased in
xeneral soctal conversation. - The satehouse meetings are used to
pass to-KDAFGHAN~L instructions, photographs or descriptions of
now KDACOUSTIC employees and new targets, general requirements
ow the KDACOUSTIC installation, and of course all {financial
matters... KDAFGHAN-1 turns. over the weekly photographic product
and logs. lie. takes’ this opportunity to ask for supplies (devel-
oping: fluid, etc), make his: accountings, and discuss the target.
‘These. weekly moctings generally take from ono to jtwo hours,

_.. EXPANDED COVERAGE “fd

4. During Ostober, the C/TECH at the Station! entered the
“KDAFGHAN Baschouse, and installed a TV-ronitor and! Robot camera.
Essentially tho new set-up was to expand KDAFGHAN=1's coverage
fo include the Consulate, in“addition to the Embassy front gate.
The equipment was so placed that while watching the'front gato,
KDAFGHAN-1 could look through a monitor at the front gate of the
Consulate and if he *-someone of possible interest he pushed
a button and a picture was snapped: at the samo time, he
monitored the front gate and took pictures and kept! his log.

This: double coverage was retained only for. one month. The
Station found that the © was marginat because theite was no
accompany ing -log,-'and no way, of ideutitying any of the persons
whose pictures were being taken. The current arrangement is
that if the Station has an operational need for checking whether
a particular person visits the Consulate, we notify |KDAPGHAN-1
‘in advance, providing him a photograph and/or physical descriptiol
and then at the designated timo he personally monitors the
Consulate gate, while KDAFGHAN-2 handles the camora jon the main
gate and log. This rarely occurs. We expect even more traffic
through the Consulate now that.within the past two weeks the
Cultural Attache’s office has again been moved to the second
floor of the Consulate. Everyone soliciting propag
and other types of information on PBRUMEN Will be
through the Consulate. . There has been no further action taken
with regard to tying audio coverage at the front gateiinto the
KDAFGHAN Baschouso so that KDAFGHAN-1 might be in a better
position to identify the persons going in and out, ot 'the Embassy.
This is still a primary objective aimed at improving (the

i

. KDAFGHAN end product, |

i
PRODUCTION a
5. Tae KDAFGHAN production has remained virtually constant.
The main value of the production has been to establish a pattern
of various employees, identify their autosoviles, obtain good
photographs. Photographs of visiting PBRUNEN officials have
also been of value occasionally when Headquarters is trying to
make a positive identification. KDAFGHAN can provide] current
photographs’ of TDY or transiting PBRUMEN ofticials, and ilead-
quarters can often through its assets make positive identifi-~
cations. Such a case was that in which KDAFGHAN photographs
were furnished Headquarters and WH/Miami in HMMA-40241 /
‘hy
\

Continued,|.).....

use PREVIOUS EDITION.
SECRET



PLANS

St ae cr ATION DISPATGH Sv MNOL AND NUMER

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH | SECRET

i
= 40299

Te
i!

6, There have been no.security probloms ‘in the KDAFGHAN
oper: ation during the pertod ofthis ‘report. The safchouse was
changed to increase security and for conventence, The C/TECH'
visited the KDAFGHAN Baschouse to install the TV monitor and
robot camera, but this was done after dusk.

7... Fmorgency" contact instructions fave been arranged with
KDAFGHAN-1. Anyone Can contact KDAFGHAN-1 at anytime and anywhere
simply by saying-they are a friend of "Pope Simo KDAFGHAN-1
will reply, "I haven’t>seen him since last Christmas". KDAFGIAN-1
speaks native English and actually prefers to speak that Janguage.

FINANCES

8, The only change in the financial commitments.under this
project is tho change in rent, The old safehouse rent’ was $72.00
per mouth, This-was through February 1971. . Beginning 1 March, the
new: safehouse rent is $100.00 pex month,

9. ‘The Station is continuing to be alert for a’new baséhouse
which could provide better coverage. As mentioned above, the
Station continues to be alert for ways to add audio coverage to

the KDAFGHAN Basehouse,

(Z2V ZF

> CLASSIFICATION PAGE *
ee eae Go. | Tons



| DISPATCH [ sccrss

Chief, Western Hemisyhere Division

- fin > ra

Chief of Station, !
Heeotw

exico city p Le |

¥
SLroxron Operation Report for the Period June thr
acon etaureto  exvietnces

‘ough September 1970

Tha

i iat
Reference: IMMA ~ 38996, 3 June 1970 i
|

BACKGROUND

1, The LIONION Project continues to provide the Station
rwith Lixed photographic and physical surveiliance of the ee
PBRUMEN Embassy and COASU1ato ii” Mexico City. The LIONION ,.
baschouse which cove: the two targets is manned by LIONLON-1
and 2.” The only c: ia the operation of this Project since
the last quarterly operational report forwarded in Reference,
dispatch, was LIONIO%-1's one month trip to Europe during
September. :

SECURITY,

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS - OPERATIONAL MEETINGS AN!

2. Since the departure of Andrew E. PELLEMW LIONIONTL
and 2 have continued to be handled by Gerald PD, FAHEANGE!

ANG
is known to LIONION-1 in alias. Meetings are held the — |
LIONION-1 satehouse (some distance away from the basehouse) on
a weekly basis, usually at 1730 on Fridays. At these meetings
developed film, selected prints’ and LIONION-1's log are picked
up from LIONION~-1 and requirements are levied whenever applicable.
If any outstanding requirements are pending, LIONION-1 submits
his report during these meetings. iD

{

i

t
Continued.... | :

f

|

Distribution:
Orig. and 2 - Chier, WHD

Cooma "Yaar aie aa ND wT iat -
HMMA. - 39611 | 14 october
oH i a —assmiciow TRO Ra SLE sue
ry :
SECRET i “s0-6-122/3 io



CONTINUETION OF
DISPATCH

UMpaot

3. The rull potential of the LIONION-1 operation is |
hampered by the lack of an audio installation at the LIRING
gatéhouse covered by the LIONION-L and 2 observation post,
o- An audio installation would serve, in most cases, to identify
7 the individuals who are photographed by LIONION-1 since they ° \'

“ normally identify.themselves to the xatehouse attendant. | The I:

Station is constantly. examining the possibility of an audio ils
i installation at this point. There are a number of Station assets
: [Lhe chateeccasional access to the gatehouse, and it is conceivable
|| that’ one of them could place a quick plant device, provided |
Security tonditions. are favorable. The Station-assets who visit
the LIRING complex approximately ‘once a week are: LIRELEC-1; H
LITAINT-2; LIHACK-4 and ‘to a lesser extent LIBANGLE-. -1, Of this
group, LITAINT-2 appears to Nave gained the confidence among | | |
ING personnel, ;for whom he haS- provided services and purchased
with:Station. assistance, clothing and other items outside Mexico.
Prior. to-making any installatiou, Station will submit an opera.
tional plan for Headquarters~approval.- Station is also installing
atv camera, monitor in the LIONION basehouse to cover the LIRING
consulaté: The ins€allation will be coordinated with a robot. ||
photo camera so that photos can be taken of persons whom LIONION-1

determines to be of Station interest. |
i

\
(
COVERAGE |
!
|
i

PRODUCTION :
4. The LIONION production has remained virtually constant!
since the primary objectives of the installation seldom change.| |
Except for specific individuals, as in the case of AVDIME-1,
the general production material is similar to the contents of °
paragraph 4 of Reference. In view of this it would be redundant’
i to repeat the entire paragraph.

COVER AND SECURITY

5. There ‘were no security problems in the LIONION operation
during the period of this report. The Case Officer visited the
basehouse once during the hours of darkness. As reported pre-
viously, meetings with LIONION-1 are held in his safehouse
which is in another section of Mexico City. The question of
AMCHAMPAGNE-1's debriefing and the "vieja" the L{RING personnel
told ANCHAMPAGNE-1 about is being covered in separate dispatch
HMMA 39604.

‘ES

6. There were no changes in the projected LIONION expendi-
tures reported in the paragraphs, under FINANCES, in Reference |

dispatch, i

F

PLANS:

7. .The objectives outlined in paragraph 8, Reference,
continue in effect, Station is going ahead in the installation
of the TV monitoring system with accompanying robot photographic
camera in, order to give a more complete coverage of the LIRING

consulate.

fF
ie
:

“TBREETIO.

3 of

oe CLARIFICATION
Bot 53a. "use paevicus eorrion. | SECRET

i
Moh eee | 3
: | ;



CONTINUATION OF Siidaibibivimuaauaniasen fa
DISPATCH i SECRET ! HMMA = 39611;

8... The Station is also examining the possibility! of
acquiring a second basehouse directly across ‘the street [rom |:
the LIRING gatehouse. There are two five story apartment buildings
which would provide a better view, of the LIRING complex from a
technical :point of view, particularly if an apartment above the
third floor can be rented... The technical advantages would pro-,
vide the observer a much closer view of the gatehouse, and would
provide. a more. coriprehensive coverage of the LIRING internal |‘
paieee fg Poet grounds, The présent LIOSION -baschouse is a low three story | |
: : building, from which it“is virtually impossible to see the |
Z i routes ‘traveled by pérsons who are escorted or directed from jone.

: building.to another, If a suitable apartment can be obtained in
one of the two buildings across. from the gatehouse, it: would ibe
occupied by:a Station asset other than LIONION-1 and 2, and. |.
Compartmented from the latter two, In the event an apartment can
be located and rented across from the gatehouso, the occupant *

would. provide photographic and visual surveillance of the gatehouse
and internai grounds. sg

9. The LIONIONs, if they Stay where they are at, would |then
concentrate on the consulate and the very limited coverage of
the internal LIRING grounds, Mowever, if they can locate suitable
quarters on the rear street perpendicular to the one on which
the main gate is located, they ideally could cover the consulate
as woll'us a third, Little known entrance into the LIRING compound
which LITAINT-2 has reported being used by student e
at night, From the current LIONION basehouse, thi
cannot be seen at all,

third entrance

the possibility
aph 3 above,

10, Finally, the Station continues to explor
of installing an audio device as mentioned in para

a - acter
Batt hAckl an yt
Gerald ‘D. FANLANGER /

i,
J

T CLASSTFIEATION

ESN 83a. usersevious comen. | SECRET



DISPATCH | tis.

Chief, Western item

exe Division

(4s une worunc a

e QUARH CO Os

Chief of Station, Mexico City |'y*—~

poiaeT

© LIONION/LIONION-2
(PRR aa

Reference: HMMY - 18065

: 1. Reference asked for the Station's comments on
ANCHAMPAGNE-L's yeference to "una vieja" monitoring the
nc tAvities of LIRING. The Station discusecn with LIONION-2
herself whether she thought she might hee been singled out
by LIRING ov whether there wore any othoy People near by who
might have been identified by LIRING as snoopers.

2." While the Station does not rule out the fact LIONION-2
nay pe suspect in the eyes of LIRING, she does remember that
LIRING-2 would oceasionally come out’ the mice yato some months
Rene mie Or 10k across the street and point up to two apart-
ment buildings there and shake his fist. ’on examination, thero
oe emo apartments directly across from the front gate, each
6 floors high and with private apartments on each floor,
LIONION~2 does not know if there are any "little old ladies"
vesiding in any of them now (see para 3 below) but none of these
apartments have been vacated during the Past several years,

Her, and the: Station's guess is that LIRING probably suspects

an occupant of these apartments as being the one monitoring the
activities of LIRING personnel because of the strategic location
of these buildings. The. LIONION baschouse ts at the oxtreme
gyler end of the block, across from the offices of LIRING-13,
There is an old couple living in the house next ‘to LIONION, but
the wife is considerably older than LIONION S

Continued...

Distribution:
Orig. and 2 - Chief, wHp

es cory i
HTT ST Tn or
UMMA - 39604 13 October 1970
r— ic Ta TE
SECRET | FEN:g p-7037



» official claimed that. LIRING had no control over the situation,

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

3. LIONTON=-1 was abYe to contribute further information,
He recalled witnessing an incident Approximately tn early
1968 which could possibly have been connected with AMCHAMPAGNE-1"s
“una vieja" comment; an older woman Living at that time in ~

one of the apartments of para 2 above, complained first to

LIRING and then notified the: police’ that LIRING vehicles blocked
ontry to her driveway.i= The LIRING official dented that LIRING |:
yohicles ‘were ‘involved but admitted the possibility that visitors
parked there occasionally. © This being the case, the LIRING 1

Tho woman was. later observed by LIONION-1 to tangle verbally
Several times with people who had parked: their curs-tt-her ur iveway',
and crossed the ‘streeton foot to the LIRING cutrance, At the i
very least, this woman must have impressed LIRING personnel ne

a hardssing “busy boy", and she would seem to be a strong Candi=
date. for the "vieja" of the ANCHAMPAGNE=1 report. :

4. AS far as tho Station or LIONION-2 is aware, the LIRINGers
have never taker any provocative action against LIONION basehouss,
Despite LIRING-2's occasional gestures of disploasure, LIRING
seems to have accepted the fact there is probably visual sur-
voillance of their compound.

OC leai fence
Elsie I, SCALETTY

a ~ "Sas TTON iad on TRRGERS.

: act
fone Ir i
wemmommr | ospeast — Gdaonmm lens



j <u1ONION/LIONION/2.__. aie

ae eee eat

. Chiet of station, Hosico city.

ae

Fist ete etter

fry

wii Ch40£, Western _Homiaphere. Division.

cia Rigo ease Mes

References; A. HUMA 39283 \
B. UFFA 2181 can

1. Mo note in parograph 5 of attachment to reference B,
a reference to “una-vioja.” We presume this is Adentical with
LIONTON/2. ae fee

2, Station comments will bo appreciated,

Kenneth G. FURNELL

i

va |

Distribution:
a Orig & 1 ~ COS, Hexico City

exons aera TO

® 201-305604

Pe

GRIGINATNG

COGPDNATING

DFR UR i

RELEASING



pisparcd [etn 5

i
no norms SHOUTED

omy avaurto ruse
[aM JUOGE MOL UNG

Reference: HMMW-17869

BACKGROU

1. The LIONION Project provides a fixed photographic sur-
veillance. of LIRING and a base .for the radio dispateh of-the
LIEMBRACE surveillance team when used in the vicinity of LIRING
The basehouse is manned by LIONION-1 and LIONION-2,. who have
operated as a team against the LIRING target since 1960,

OPERATY

Security.
repor tod LIONIOS es ied te he hand?
Andyew E. PELLEMENT, who is. ku to LIONION-1 in allas, ‘
meetings were held on an average of once a week bo discus:
week's production with additional meetings held as
In January 1970, Station had LIONION-L change safchous
meetings with Station officers, Me moved from one apartment used
for this purpose to another similarly priced apartment. This move
was made for the sake of convenience, since the first apartment
was in a congested a A one-year lease was signed by LIONION-1
in alias, and no co-signer was required. LION{ON-1 uses the
apartment evenings and weekends to add credence to the fact that

he lives out-of-town and waincains this small apartment in Mexico
NES

City for use during his frequent visits. Followtng PELLE
departure in Tate May, Sevald D. FANLANGER, known to LIONION-1
in alias assumed responsibility for the LIONION Project and meets
remilarly with LIONION-1. Nadine B. SCOCOZZA, known to LLONLON-1
by true first name only, also occasionally meets with LIONION-1 to
discuss personality information on LIRINGers on whom SCOCOZZA is

making studies,

Distribution: Continued...
vOvig, and 1 - Chief, WHD 7 :
1 - COS, Wi/Miami i

Hid fetueeaneiaee eaaee ee

C1-PATOW SOREN AND WEES lowe

AMMA - 55996 3 June 1970

T
CASRN, ween Sui
: SECRET So-6 -122/3

ROSS RENE TO



the usefulness of the LIONION produ

/ Vocations of -LIRT

these

TORR MOL ANS RoMOET

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH H Ss

Hats

The lack of complemen-
to Tinit the effectiveness of the
se of identifying LIRTNG

is presently re-examining the

tary audio cove
LIONLOS photo production in the
installation visitors. -The. Statio:
various points of view which the LIONION baschouse provides of
LIKING in order to determine what stegs can be, taken to improve

t. From the window in the
room ¥here the pulse. camera was previously installed, an excellent
view cafrbe obtained of the LIRING garden and walkways between

the three: LIRING buildings (in addition to the LIRING Consulate).
By having LIONION=1 .temporarily-leave coverage of the main. entrance
from time to times and-having him, on a.spotcheck basis, view the
garden :area, the: §tation hopes. to upiate its information on the
offices, theit general patterhs of move-
ment and activity, etc? -LIONION-1 will be assigned coverage of
this interior area of LIRING at. different ‘times of the day and
evening to see whith rooms.are used at night, which appear to be
living quarters at present, etc, After a trial: period of about

one: month, the results of this new coverage will be analyzed in
order to determine thé value of the information already collected,
and whether this additional coverage is worth tho effort atid the
time‘taken away from the main entrance coverage.

PRODUCTION t

4. The LIONION Prodtiction for the reporting period, 1
February through 31 May 1970, consisted almost entirely of photo-
graphic coverage of visitors to the LIRING main entrance ‘and logs
of movement of LIRING persorinel and visitors, This proved very
useful in identifying new LIRING PCS employees in Mexico, obtaining
photographs of them, and taking up-to-date photos of other
employces. This monitoring also revealed which cars the various
employees usually drive, and the license plates of cach, Based
on LIOSION's log some information obtained on the pattern of
ployees. This latter information is limited since the
employees often arrive and depart at different hours and often
switch cars, When this happens at dusk or evenings, it is impos-
sible to identify the driver or passenger.

LIONION-1 also took pictures of what appear to be American

visitors to the front gate. In the case of A
in automobiles beariag U.S, license plates, the license plate
numbers, car description, and sterile copies of photographs, . were

given LNERGO for identification,

The Station utilized LIONION-1 photographic coverage and his
log to check on the reports of Station assets who claim to visit
LIRING. In the case of some ‘assets LIONION-1 was given a photo-
graph of the agent and told to be particularly alert at certain
times of certain days to confirm the agent's entry, exit, ete.
This proved particularly useful in checking AVDIME-1's story of
contact with LIRING and confirmed LIRELIC-1's visits to LIRING
at an early stage in our recontact with LIRELIC-1.

The lack of photographic coverage of the LIRING Consulate
has meant that the Station has been ble to check whether cer-
tain groups of special interest, such as the Dominican exiles,
Jamaicans, cte., went to the Consulate for visas. .Through LIENVOY
however, thé Station obtains information on many of the* persons
or groups who are-applying for. visas, aud from the manifests the
Station knows who ;actually obtains visas and travels to PBRUNEN.
In the case.of’a critical situation am

with advance notice,
LIONTON-1 can always be asked to give close visual coverage of the

form
ace

53a

SSIFIEATION

Use Previous ceITION. | SECRET



“AShouse has." driveway: of f ‘the street entrance-way, which facilitates

TAROT AND NUMDET

A - 38996

CARE CATION Tmararer
SECRET | AM

Consulate or Gatchouse, whichever is more logical, and report -
immediately to the Station by phone on certain xroups or visitors,

CONTINUATION OF
OISPATCH

COVER AND SECURITY

no deveiopments erther during the period
of this report or during the Project Year which have af fested the
fecurdty of the LIONION operation. bue to the proximity of the
LIOXION baschouse to L{RING, care been taken to limit the

of visits by Station officer When such visits are necessar:
ON-1, meets the Station officer outside the LIRING area and
drives him back. to tho basehouse in LIONION-1's own car. Tho base-

entry, during non-daylight hours without being seen from tho LIRING
Complex. “During the Project -Year, Station officers entered the
basehouse on only three occasions, PELLENENT twico, and Station
WOACRE technician; Walter W. CORNBURY,-oncc. Reguiar meetings with
" LIONION=1 ave conducted in the safesite described in paragraph 2,
During the Project Year, following the demisc of the LISANPAW opera-
tion and the pulse: camera production, all extrancous material, both
electronic and photographic, was removed from tho basohouso,. sver
a period of time, in order to limit the amount of compromising
material located in the baschouse,

FINANCES

6. During the reporting period, routine LIONION expenditures
amounted to $1,872,.00.USD, and no unanticipated expenditures were
made. The anticipated expense total for the Project Year will be
$10,645.00, which is less than. the approved figure of $11,994. An‘
unknown portion of the difference Ls absorbed by Headquarters fund-
ing of LIONION photographic supplies received through WOACRE channel

7. The following is a breakdown of anticipated expenditures
for the LIONION Project for FY-71 as compared with the approved
costs for FY-70:

Salaries: Fy 1970 FY 1971
LIONION-1 4,800 4,800
LIONION-2 1,920 1,920
Xmas bonuses 560 . 560
Rents:
LIONION Basehouse (observation post) 1,200 1,200
LIONION Safehouse (for mectings 864 864
with C/o)
Utilities for both 500 - 500
Operational Expenses:
Film 1,000 1,000 :
Paper 450 450 :
Chemicals 300 300
“Miscellaneous:
Operational 150 150
Special Gift to LIONION-1 are 559
= COSSTCATON 7 BRGEHO:
Sa" 53a use previous eoirion SECRET eee area

tah

TET Borer seer ene 9 peer rtnerteererscmerecery


Pore uta Oe TISFSTCH BVMDOU ANS NONEES
DISPATCH

est ioe

i As reported tn.the last Progress Report (HMMA-3848S), the
Station paid LIONION-1 $250.00 USD in January .1970 to cover the
unexpected medical expenses. of LIONION-?. This sum had originally
been intended as the second of two installments to compensate
LIONION-1 for cutting his. long overdue vacation trip to Europe
from one month to two weeks in early summer of 1969, Reinstate-
mént of this. payment in the FY-71 budget is requested (and is
vaétually in lieu of a-salary increase),

PLANS

“8, As discussed above, the Station plans to continue using
the LIONION Base’ as a-collection point for background information
‘on LIRING and its employees, to assist the Section in target
analysis work, . The Station is trying to collect information on
six major target. personnél (i.e. LIRING officers), and in order
to properly asséss the personnel selected, and try to recruit and
runaccess agents against: them,. additional information is needed
on their pattern of activity, friends, contacts, work habits, etc.
It is hoped that LIONION-1 will be able to make a worthwhile con-
tribution-to this effort. At the same time, he will be asked to
remain alert “for any visitors of possible interest (Americans,
studénts;. etc.)..The next step in the Station's over-all. plan will
be to assess LIONION-1's ability to observe and draw appropriate
conclusions from his observations, and write these up for the
Station, The Station will also try to find some formula for per-
mitting LIONION-1 and 2 to continue photographic coverage, but
perhaps on a more limited basis than in the past, and. at the same
time continue their target analysis work.

Although not pJanned for the immediate future and dependent
_on-the need for Consulate coverage, the Station still may wish
to install a TV moiitoring system on the Consulate as well as
live, manual camera coverage of the main entrance. This feature
was discussed in the previous LIONION operational report.

Ciel, Kh lon 2—

PA,
‘or/Horace E, PRALLETT

Sor & eB.

Yeace

i
L4of4

CLASSIFIEATION

oi, 53a use previous eorrion. SECRET Lyd conmnuee



| DISPATCH | secuer |

s
Chief, Western Heriisphere Division | xxx

jOmr quarto D4
[ear up oLLING

oy : une
Chief of Station, Panama City (ATTN: YKSPICE) |
7 oe A

—=—
:Acting Chief of Station, Mexico City 4 |

sxc Operat tona 17 PBRUNEN/LIONTON/TECIS seco

ag BIONION. Progress Report, 1 October 1969 through 31 January 1970 -.

Reference: HMMA -. 38073, 7-November 1969

BACKGROUND

1. The LIONION Project: provides a fixed photographic sur-
veillance of LIRING and a base for the radio dispatch of the LIEMBRACE
surveillance team. The basehouse is-manned by LIONION-1 and LIONION-2,
who have operated as a team against the LIRING target. for more than

six years.

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

“2, Operational Meetings. During the reporting perlod LIOXION-1
i continued to be handled directly by Andrew E. PELLEMENT. Regular

meetings were held on an average of once a week with additional
meetings held as required to answer short suspense requirements.

3. Photographic. There was no significant. change in. the
photographic coverage of LIRING during the reporting perlod, The
subject of a replacement for the pulse camera. coverage of the Consu-
late was discussed with the MKSPICE technicians who visited the
Station in November 1969 They agreed with the Station that photo-
graphic coverage of the Consulate could be managed through the
installation of a closed circuit television system with a remote
: . controlled Robot camera coaxially mounted. “The TV monitor and remote
control trigger would be located in the same room from which LIONION-1
regularly covers the LIRING main gate. LIONION-1 coula thus check
the TV monitor, see if targets of interest appeared on the TV ‘screen
rc and use the remote controlled camera to take only those pictures

which he considered of value, While the Station agrees that this

. Distribution: — Continued...
orig. and/1/- Chief, WHD i
1 ~ COS, Panama City

SECRET | 750-6-122/3
L

Ses ag [DISPATCH S¥ABOL AND WUMBE® Tear
| HMMA - 38488 » 19 February 1970
in | asain [es Rap et



f
t CONTINUATION OF

OISPATCH

FATEN @YNBEL ANG NORGE

WMA - 38488

system should provide good photegrzshic coverage of

Fesulting in a manageable number of additional photogeaphe thane
Station has delayed installation of this system pending improvement
in the Station" bility to identify the subjects of LIONION-1's
photography. The Station does not sish to increase the number’ of
photographs if a significant porties of them cannot be identified.

4. Audio Requirements for LIONION. As noted in refere
loss of LISAMPAN/DOG caus a noticeable decrease in the Station's,
ability to identify the ‘LIRING visiters photographed by LIONION-1.
Station studies of the LIENVOY coverage have shown that, LIESVOY
coverage alone ‘is. not sufficient to significantly increase the
identification process.even if this coverage was furnished live. to
LIONION-1;, The. Station has: recently received additional information
concerning the interior communicatioss system of LIRING and is
presently flaking a study of this matter. This subject will be dis-
cussed with Codric B. REDINBATT during his forthcoming TDY to tho
ation. :

ST SIREN Se Nl

PRODUCTION

5. While the Station continued to be seriously hindered in

its identification of LIRING visitors during the reporting period
for lack of a suitable replacement gor LISAMPAN/DOG, the Station

was able to verify visits of LITAINT-2 and other agents to LIRING

on different occasions,- LIONION-1 is aiding the Station in the
identification of new PCS LIRING personnel. Through LIENVOY and
LIFEAT, we are aware that LIRING is going through a period of
nurierous personnel changes, the extezt of which has yet.to be deter+
mined. LIONION-1's photographs and personal observation has greatly
aided in determining which persons are visitors and which appear

to have arrived PCS. Some functional identification of new personnel
has already been made ‘based on LIONION-1's reports on the people
with whom the new employees usually associate. Increasing use was
made of LIONION=1 to dispatch the LIEMBRACE team during the reporting
. period. Except for a period of*about one month when the dispatch
radio was out. of commission, LIONION-1 has dispatched the team on

an average of once a week in support of the Station's, attempt to
learn the new addresses of LIRING personnel, and Jearn more about

the off duty activities of personne! considered of priority interest
in LIRING.

SECURITY

6. There were no developments affecting the security of the
LIONION operation during the reporting period.

FINANCES

7. During the reporting period, routine LIONION expenditures
amounted to $4270.00 USD. In early December 1969, LIONION-2
suffered a serious accidental fali while at home in the basehouse.
Due to her age, LIONION-1 sent.her to San Antonio for a complete
medical examination, The doctors found her in good health for ier
age and she is now feeling fine. Instead of giving LIONION-1 the
loan he requested in order to cover the cost of the trip, the Station
gave him the one-time gift programmed in the FY-70 LIONION budget
of $250.00 USD. This money had originally been programmed to
reimburse LIONION-1 for the additioz3! cost involved in deferring
half of his planhed one month vacatioz to Europe in summer 1969
until 1970, LIONION-1 had not had 2 regular vacation in more than
five years, and the Station felt that while he was certainly entitled
to the month's time, we could not close the LIONION operation for
that period of time. Although no connitment has been made to

T CABSIFICATION TBAGE NOT

SECRET?

oy
3 538 use PREVIOUS EDITION,

i
CONTINUED. i 2o0f 3



| SRSES RECEP Paro opr oreee CORSRIFICATION TEP ATEN SVAUOL AND TOMUTT

'UATION OF j
DISPATCH | SECRET i UMMA - 38483,

LIONION-1, the Station will recommend that the FY-71 budget include
Another gift of $250.00 USD to defray part of the expense of the air
fare.on the second part of his vacation, The matter of future medical
expenses was discussed with LIONLON-1 and he said that should there
be additional expetises for LYONION-2 in the future which he cannot pay
from his own budget, then he will ask his two brethers who have respon-
sible jobs in WOLADY: for assistance. LIONION-1 felt that sinco she
lives with him, it. was: his responsibility to pay the Cirst medical
expenses. of LIUNION=2 which have,occurred for a considerable period
of time. | PELLEMENT ‘informed LIONION-1 that due to the age of LIONION-2
the Station cannot assume responsibility for, her medical expenses

|} which could continue to rise in coming years. -LIONION-1 said he
understood this’ ‘and.was very grateful to RVROCK for helping this one
time.

PLANS

8. As discussed above, the Station's main plans for the. LIONION
Project. during the first three months of CY-70 will .be to increase
‘our ability “to idontify the LIONION photographic product. Station
recommendations for iinprovement in this field will be forwarded
promptly when a feasible program has been found. The Station will
continue to usc’ LIONION-1 to dispatch the LIEMBRACE team. The immediate,
goals are to identify the residences of the new LIRING personnel] when
unable to do so through moro passive means, and to continue surveillance|
for différent lengths of time on different days against priority LIRING
targets with the hope that by determining their patterns of activity,
the Station will be able to improve its access to them and the LIRING

target.

ce lor/iorace E. PRALLETT

‘CLASSIFICATION

oS ee ae

: 6041 IBS 3



DISPATCH |...

Chief, Western Hemisphere Div

omar quae asa”

: a Jax aed accuse
- ~ 4
Chief of Station, Mexico city /) -_ fectome

ational /PBRUMEN, LIONE
Proaxess Report, duly through 3h October 1969

Action Required: None, FYI

|

BACKGROUND |

1. The LIONION Project provides a fixed photographic sur-
velllance of LIRING and a base for the radio di atch of the
LIEMBRACE surveillance team. ‘The baschouse is manned by LI
and LIONION-2, who have Operated us a team asainst the LIRING

TON-1
target for more than six years. iat

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
2. Operatios

al Meetin

LIONION=1 and the undersigned con-

tinued to meet at te e each week to exchange the results of
fhe week's activity and to discuss new requirements, Addittonal
meetings were held, as required, to levy sew Fequirements which = ¥~

had a short suspense time. LIONEON-1 usually provided the answers
to these short suspeusé Vequirements by telephone using a prearranged
code,

3 Photographic. There was no significant change in tho
photographic” coveraxe of LIRING during the reporting period except
that the pulse camera coveraze of the Consulate terminated in
October (see paragraph. 8).

4. Audio Requirements for LIONION, ation review of the
LIONION product subsequent to the loss of LI MPAN/DOG in carly

May 1969, shows a sixaificant decrease in LIONION-1's ability to
identify LIRING visitor Relying on his memory of persons pre-
viously identified, LIONION-1 is able to identify routine visitors,
J but now he has no way ef identifying new visitors. For this reason,
the Station is presently assessing the possibility of providing
LIONION-1 with a straight tap of the former LISAMPAN/DOG line.

Continued...

Distribution: .
Original and 2 - Chief, WHD

‘Bera alte woeae oat

HMMA - 38073 7 November 1989

aS To
*50-6-122/3



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

e LITAUNT-2 did visit LIRING at the time when he reported having

WATE BIeASC AND NOMEN

UL

LIONTOX-1 would Itve-monttor this Line and use it .to aid ‘in
identifying LIRING visitors, Based on prior experience with
(he LISAMPAN/DOG. It is known that LIRING visttors are Crequently
announced by telephone to LIRING officers ingidd. For security
reasons, we do not wish wo tap the Line from the street box and
run tt directly to the LIONION LP, but we are presently deter-
mining the feasibility of tapping the line from the central

framo and running “tt from there to the LP. The risk in this

case 1s considerably, reduced since there is ne direct connection
between LIRING and: LIONION-1, and LIFEAT experience has deter-
mined that any phone company employce who discovers the well
disguised’ tap will think Lt was done by the Mexican Governmont,
and will not report tt ‘to anyone. Further information on this
matter will be forwarded upon.completion of the casing by
LIFEUD-2. Routine telephone Company repairs in the area of the
LP have. delayed the casing of the area, .but this will be done
once repairs are completed.

PRODUCTION ©

5... As. reported above, ‘the Station was seriously hindered
in identifying LIRING visitors during the reporting period due
to the absence of audio as.a complement to the LIONION photogra-
phic product. Thus there was Little development of information
regarding now visitors to LIRING.-” Utilization of the LIONION
product’ during the reporting period was primarily confined to
confirming whether or not -LIRING officials wore at LIRING when
their presence wis reported elsewhere. LIONION-1 verified that

® conversation with LIRING-2.and LIONION-1 verified that thoy
loft LIRING at the hour stated by LITAINT-2.  LIMACK-8 was :
subsequently able to verify their arrival at LIRING-2's residence.
Move recently, LIONION-1 was queried regarding the presence or =
absence of LIRING-25 in response to certain reports that LIRING-25
had returned to Nexico-City. LIONION-1 reported that he hid

not seen LIRING-25 for about six wecks. Utilization of the
LIONION product was further hindered by the absence of any full-
time Intelligence Assistant for the Station PBRUMEN Section
during most of the’reporting period. There was, thus, no one

to analyze the weekly product, or resolve possible leads to the
identity of LIRING visitors, Paragraphs 8 and 9 below discuss
current efforts to make better use of this product.

SECURITY

6. There weré no developments affecting the security of
the LIONION operation during the reporting period.

FINANCES

7. During the reporting period, routine LIONION expendi-
tures amounted to $1,714.85 USD. No additional expenditures

were made,

PLANS

8. In addition to the-audio coverage discussed in para-
graph 4 above, the Station is also considering the installation
of closed circuit television coverage of the LIRING Consulate,
previously covered by the pulse camera... Per DIRECTOR 46064,
pulse camera coverage was terminated on 20 October 1969. It is
hoped that a satisfactory system can be arranged whereby LIONION-1

PAGENG,

CLAsaiMEATION

2 of 3

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
coNTINUED

SECRET



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

while continuing. nis Live coverage of the main entrance, cin
mouttor the activity of tlie Consulate on a TV monitor and take
pictures by remote control when a target of interest appears.
For this purpose-a regular 35 mm camera with telefoto lens would
be mounted in parallel to the TV camera. ‘The interaction between
the two-cameras would prodticé a manageable amount of photographs
which. it 4s hoped, cun be identified by LIONION-L from the audio
take which will compliment. the operation. Detailed Station plans
fol luftion of audio and television coverage of LIRING
- will be the bject of .a separate dispatch as soon as specific
plans have been’ prepared “and sufficient casing accomplished.

9. In addition to planning ai increase in tho technical
“capability of LIONION-1, the Station plans to utilize Nadine Bs
-SCOCOZZA, the. PBRUMEN Section's new Intelligence Assistant, to

actively pursue the lends developed by the LIONION operation,

By using “thé Station capability: to resolve license plates, tele-
; phone numbers, to conduct pretense iavestigations, and surveillance,
At is hoped to develop leads to new access agents to.LIRING. Once
‘certain targets have. been spotted and identified, and available
backxround information gathered to form a preliminary assessment

as to their suitability” for approach, it is planned to furnish these
leads to Henry J.-SLOMAN“and other Station case officers for sub-
sequent development and possible recruitment.

\

\ ;

To |

for/John A, PROBERT

‘CLASSIFICATION

USE PREVIOUS EDITION. SECRET



i| DISPATCH | sscers
H 7 ——Chief of Station, Mexico City

ley cunti9 ots ~
tan ura nde

—thief, Western Hemisphere Division.___

;
raereFONION/— ama Seetumen Ete

Action Required: FYI

1, When Waltor W. CORNBURY was at Headquarters on hig.
medical TDY, ho raised the question of replacing the LIONION:
Pulso Camora with closod circuit TV, This would enable
LIONION/1 to monitor the Consulate at tho fame time he was

=. maintaining his coverage at the main gato. CORNBURY advised
“that the equipment was available at WOACRE and that it could
_ be shipped down and tried on an experimental basis.

2. We advised CORNBURY that basically we had no objection
to the proposal. We commented however, that the final decision
onthe matter rested with the Station and that he should take up

"the matter with the Station upon his return, i:

3, (The foregoing in no way effects the previous author iz
removai of the LIONION Pulse Camera. ipa deta taal

Kenneth G. FURNELL

Distribution:
orig & 1 = COS, Mexico City

24 OCT He iss i
BiFaiGh RG wa wae att i i
j HMMW=17540 21 October 1969 Fj
aaa EASTON, eevee Ea
; !
: | S-E-C-R-E-T |__“s0-3-122/3
7 ORIGINATING
om = Cr
WH/1/R__ CNBounds
y ia CQOROIMATING

one = ou —f UNCLES na
+—|

oot : sf |
un oe Foe Toa 5
eal C/WH/L

SS" 53° vee eneviovs rorrion. “401 Di
wero. svee



sane a DissEANATION Gssex — Oncwore =) truanto mane ‘Orn aio

n Crremes meno.

os a a
: : S-E-C-R-E-T
oe 1d 10,322 dered

MEXICO CITY

LIONION

REFS: A, DIRECTOR <2756* i High :
B, MEXICO city i677 (IN 64688) **

1, APPROVED PAR\ ONE REQUEST REF B, : e
2. FILE: 30-6-122/3, . aan

(eee z END OF MESSAGE

WH Comment ;*A, Approved removal of LIONION Pulse camera provided

replaced by full time separate operator for Con=
sulate coverage,

aR, Request authority remove without promising to provide
full time separate operator. LIONION will cover on
selective basis both Embassy entrances.

' zine
‘ yn : d/h.
' DM: yn Be Ales baapet eid
: William V, Broe CS copy jf John C. wurray
THEA S/d ee AHH det os
acueatind orvicen [ s-n-con-r- wna 7
nos

7 ; peeve S6-b- WZ
REPRODUCTION &Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING GFFICE IS PROHIDITED.



£

TDissemnanion Ct

ea =a > zi
Se tGRE icing
pease

mone Gly Cre

ITHALS.$E4 37

cuaamry Ty ce rue so,

ov ano

ae

er ro ce me nO,

meno 0 seu to Py

TSP, vie S

Feraw ne.

! HUNITSISSE
SECRET sao1asz Oct 69 CITE MExtco cITY 4677 at
DIRECTOR ail :

Ciowron >
panna i

REF DIRECTOR 42756 i

1. REQUEST AUTHORITY REMOVE LIONTON PULSE CAMERA WITHOUT
PROMISING PROVIDE FULL-TIME "SEPARATE OPERATOR” FOR CONSULATE
COVERAGE (MENTIONED REF) AS CONDITION OF REMOVAL. IT HAS BEEN
AND REMAINS OUR INTENT THAT ONE OPERATOR ONLY, LIONION-1,
HORMALLY COVER ON SELECTIVE BASIS BOTH PERUMEN EMBASSY ENTRANCES

i WITH MAUUAL CAMERA, MOVING FROM GATEHOUSE TO CONSULATE VANTAGE
“POINTS VITHEN OP APARTMENT AS NEEDED. BASED PAST EXPERIENCE,
MAIN EMPHASIS WILL CONTINUE BE ON GATEHOUSE.

2. PERHAPS CONFUSION RE NUMBER CAMERA OPERATORS cag(lep BY
LIONION-2 PRESENCE IN APARTMENT, TO CLEAR UP ANY POSSIBLE WRONG
IMPRESSION, SEH TOO OLD AND HAS RATHER POOR EYESIGHT TO BE FULL-
TIME “SEPARATE OPERATOR”, ALTHOUGH SHE CAN HELP OUT IN PINCH ¥ITH
CAMERA WHEN LIONION-1 NOT THERE OR VERY RARE OCCASION WHEN

SIMULTANEOUS COVERAGE NEEDED.
3. THUS, RESTATING REQUEST IN SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT TERMS, ea oo ia
-
WE WISH TERMINATE PULSE CAMERA AND CONTINUE MANNED COVERAGE USING “
Fi 50 -GAF IZ
& Copy od

Ce bP
SECRET a ‘


ee

CABLE SECRETARIAT CISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESsasz __—_ToTaL Copies ROUTING ANDCR MITUALS. SEE 67
Faure To ee Ber 77 a
‘ H a Es

a (When Filied fn)“
Chasers

: ee ra
PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 1677 SECRET

CPERATOR. AND /OR RENT NEW OBSERVATION POST WHICH WE FEEL ENTIRELY -

UNJUSTIFLED CONSIDERING MODEST CP AND INTEL VALUE OF END PRODUCT.
4, FILE 59-6-122/3.

SECRET



OU eozsvouza

Soot ¢2

» [pate vt 2
\” Foance steneraniat o1sseuination Chino = Qnommoex Cl nervan ro ——_—. raion > Chonceco
: UA | Ch rice cs rut no,
1 Gower p a 7
; wor Lew RlAN  TSbE, Ci efee :
. : eee sien
iaaoomtasTsT Tinned a Tah 7
SECRET ene 5g
ro ([ MEXICO CITY .~ ~ Ob 522 teres : i.
| oN, : J
Clorox) -
! REFS: A. DIRECTOR 36226 i

B, MEXICO CITY 1393 (IN 43570)

1. ACCORDING TO RAULERSON, pels PLANS: enon LION IO;
COLVIN
Jf PULSE CAMERA COVERAGE CONSULATE WITH MANNED cAuERA’ COVEN a eel

, SIMILAR LIONION/1 OF MAIN GATE. ON THIS BASIS STATION AUTHORIZED
REMOVE LIONION PULSE. CAMERA,

- Oo 2. PLEASE ADVISE.

: 3. FILE: 50-6-122/3,

: : END OF MESSAGE

a Keke Broe “eI
fa 68 cot

®
‘
3
2
1
j : COORDINATING oPnicERS
Roi: | RELEASING OFFscER S-E-C-R-E-T ct et leet aumennicanna

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. con no,



{
I related

3. The LIONION pulse canera van discussed
to the section the Story of the Burenu's involv, nt or
Possible utilization in the take that was realized frou the
pulse cancra, Tho Station, however, satd that a hand canera
ranned by an agent would proyide the saue function with nore
eetailed inforation and would be rau less costly. Ac
coxvingly, Headquarters will send a cable to Mexico City
concurring with. their proposal to. terzinate the LIONION
pulse cancra- operation. The LIONION operation 18 handled by

Cybulski,

eillance., The manual canera wi11
to cover the En

16. Photo
renain in tho io

entrarco; y
: place t ova Covering the Corzulate ent
: The Statiow p: also through liaison both in :
H periods

and Morida to do sone spot Photography for short
of tine for identification purposes,

(SOURCE: RAWLERSON'S TDY Notes - September 1969;
File: 50-120-13)

Ns,


PHS

a toner coor Tumis CJacrres

SABLE Steneramar Outresanarin * “ cusineowrseie »Titac comes,

Het A/ SECRET

(When Filled 7 =

[seesosversver tua cov peowense] |
ween Gra (ne

cuamey vo cx rine,
Sassessinesseaebaaeavncusaesiney

[steerer
owe ov 2 en ne ro rerum 10

Teton OS

[ROUTING ANO-OR cerTALE.SETN 8

SEGRET 1300112 SEP 69 CITE HEXICO ermeses)
DIRECTOR ~ (ees
Citowton
13 Sp 69 IN43570

REF DIRECTOR 36226
a)
Ie FOLL INFO IN REPLY REF:
a Ao IT NOT PRESENTLY POSSIBLE HAVE LIONION-1 COVER BOTH
MAIN TARGET. AND CONSULATE DUE PRESENCE PULSE CaMtRa AND MANNER
IN URICH WINDOW MASKED, -WERE PULSE CAMERA REMCVE=D CONSULATE
IS FROM ROOM ADJACENT TO ROOM FROM WHICH MAIN TARGET COVERED. eet

IT IMPOSSIBLE HAVE LIONION-1 SIMULTANEOUSLY COVER BOTH TARGETS a |
B. AS MATTER REGUASS PRACTIVE, LIONION-1 TAXES PHOTOS AB

ALL PERSONS OF INTEREST WHO GO FROM MAIN GATE TO CONSULATE.
PHOTO COVERAGE IS FROM ‘waIN GATE VANTAGE POINT, LULONION-I

UNABLE SEE THEM ENTER/DEPART CONSULATE.
€. SINCE LIONION-i HAS NOT PHYSICALLY COVESED CONSULATE
ff, IT NOT POSSIBLE GIVE

TARGET FOR PROLONGED PERIOD IN SOME TIN:

FIRM PERCENTAGE OF CONSULATE VISITORS PHOTOGRAPKES BY LIOoKrow- Ly

BUT IT STATION FEELING HOST FiRST TIME VISITORS 89 Tu SAIN. GATE
FIRST, THis ear IS ENTRANCE .TO BOTH SGNSULATE & no zxpassé, THEY

uo . 6 (32;
“8 tapp a.
‘SECRET

~

SS

eran


CusssirieoMessace.——_Torat Copies CUT ING ANO7OA ‘sOTLALS. SEEN BF

SECRET OL.
(When Filled la). Set ee ee

Beracoueriouer twa core enowinit¥O —
moun Cv One tH in

ame east Se ey AH 69

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

Teton He

+ PAGE 2 MEXICO-CITY 1393 SECRET
az ;  EMEN SENT FROM MAIN GATE TO CONSULATE. ONLY REGULAR VISITORS
USUALLY “AWARE LOCATION CONSULAR ENTRANCE. ACCORDING LIEBVOY,
IT WOT REGULAR PRACTICE EMBASSY/CONSULATE OFFICERS INSTRUCT
VISITORS LOCATION THIS ENTRANCE. .

2. ONCE PULSE CAMERA (WHICH VERY BULY ITEM) REMOVED,
STATION PLANS EXPLORE DIFFERENT MEANS AUGMENTING LIONION-1
ABILITY COVER CONSULATE WITHOUT SERIOUSLY DETRACTING FROM PRESENT
VALUABLE GATEHOUSE COVERAGE. WILL ADVISE-FURTHER THIS POINT WHEN
STUDY COMPLETED.

; : 3. FILE 50-6-122/3.

B SECRE T : ‘



seseenuipaineh femmes wen?

jQSUE NON OF Tris COPY

O we Gro

Toacecon [Juuso [Jeorive

a

feet’) 2
. afer 10 #ue NO. .
oust or te 2 wo Otro ence err pe
eae & cornet wae pf oie 2 toler Fd 1506
F209 7 7
1 AO! ae n
: SECRET O722472 AUG 69 CITE MEXICO CITY 1132
DIRECTOR Thos 6 18170
: mn i
: LIONION 1

1. IN ATTEMPT ELIMINATE MARGINAL OPS, STATION INTENDS | !
TERMINATE LIONION-1 PULSE CAMERA COVERAGE EFFECTIVE ! SEPTENSER
UNLESS H@S INDICATES IT CONSIDERS PRODUCT OF SUFFICIENT VALUE .
TO WARRANT RETENTION. .STATION PRESENTLY OBTAINS MANY PICTURES
OF LIRING CONSULATE VISITORS SINCE MOST FIRST-TIME LIRING VISITORS
TRY ENTER THROUGH MAIN GATE WHICH PRINARY TARGET LIONION PHOTO
COVERAGE. ALSO NANY CONSULATE VISITORS LATER PHOTOGRAPHED AT
AIRPORT. IT NOT POSSIBLE HAVE LIONION-{ COVER BOTH ENTRANCES
“ SIMULTANEOUSLY, BUT HE ABLE MOVE EQUIPNENT TO COVER CONSULATE IF
! NEED ARISES.———
2. FILE 50~-6-122/3,
SECRET LG

SECRET



eee eae ~ Tarai
ATCH | -SECRET

xo mex mori

Chief, Wit Division

ou auxin onse

. i Jus noce mous

oa 7 “oem ;
Chief of Station, sextco city” ‘s lectomn_

perational

svar N/TIOSTON

LIONION Progress Report. 1 April through 30 June 1969

Cieomrroariiirry

Referenco + HMSA-37024, 25 April

BACKGROUND

survelllance of LIRING and a base for ¢;

OPERATIONAL DEV ELOPMENTS
EAL DEVELOPMENTS,

2. Operational seetings

Week's activity and new requirements.
are held on the average of twice a mont
Yequirements, The answers to these and
ments are frequently reported to the St
telephonically using a prearranged code

Continued

Distribution:
Orig & 2.- C/WHD

meet at least once each week to exchang.

Action Roquired: Comments, paragraph 6b

1969

1. The LIONION Project provides a fixed photographic

he radlo dispatch of

the LIEMBRACE surveillance team. The basehouse is manned
by LIONION=1 and LIONLON-2, who have Operated as a team against
the LIRING target for more than six years,

LIONION-1 and the undersigned

@ the results of the
Additional meetings
h to levy special

other regular require-
ation by LIONION-1

Teena levee eet e cece

ica ron as TR
HMMA"- 37510

GassnaOn
SEC



Taman

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

7510

i
|

phic coverage lof
19

Miolographic. Regular photogr

ed from 4 through 2 » during which
pertod LIONION=1 tok a vacation in Buro; Since he had not
had a regular’ vacation in more than five years, and because
the nature of his werk requires him to remain behind the
camera in a small closet fn the basehouse, the Station
coustdored it important that he Leave his'work and relax for’
~ Awhile. . LIONION-2 originally requested a five-week vacation
which tho Station vould have willingly granted if the LIONION
operation could. have been continued during that period iby
someone else: but LIONION-1 reported that, while his mother:
tng. able fo take his place for short periods of time during
"the day, the responsibtlity and-long hours would be too much
for.a person of her age ‘and bad eyesight for an extended
‘period of timo. The Station considered it unwise to have a
Substitute..take over during LIONION-1's absence. {lo agreed
to take.a thitee-wees tour of Europe this year, and he will
be Allowed to” take -Wiother three weeks. next year if ho wishes,
Station financial assistance to LIONION-1 to aid in dofraying
the cost ofa second air flight to Europe is discussed Under
FINANCES below. Breitvency contact arrangencuts were made
between LIONION-2 and. the undersigned to pass any priority
requirements which night arise during LIONION-1's absenée.
LIONION-2. remained at the Listening Post during the entire
period in order not to leave ‘the basehouse equipment unguarded.
Except for the lack of coverage during these two weeks, ‘there
were no significant changes in the photographic coverage! of
LIRING during the reporting period. -

4. Audio = LISAMPAN/DOG. As reported in paragraph) D2
of vetoreice, LIONION-I Live-monitored the LISAMPAN/DOG
traffic from 0800 to. 1730 hours daily. when he left for
Europe on 4 May 1962, the carrier current transmission of this

traffic. from LISAMPAN’LISASH to the LIONION~1 .baschouse was
discontinued, [t was decided to let LISAMPAN-1 record various
portions of this traffic during the two-week absence of |
LIONION-1 for evaluation by Richard C.“HABOUSII, The purpose
was.-to determine whether continued recording by either
LISAMPAN-1 or LIONION-1 would be merited by the information
obtained. As previously reported (MEXICO CITY-0191 and
HMMA-3716G), LISAMPAN.DOG was lost on either 6 or 7 May 1969.5
AS a result, LIONION-T he ceived no audio since his return
from Europe on 25 May 1969, After the loss of LISAMPAN/DOG
the Station considered runing a straight tap to the LIONION-1
baschouse, but decided that the security risk was too great
particularly in view of the fact, that the target LIRING line
is already monitored by LIENVOY,

5. Miscellaneous. During the Station's casing of the

“residence or Chief, LIRING in May and June 1969: to determine
the feasibility of mounting an audio operation against that
target, LIONTON-1 extended his coverage of the LIRING target
beyond his usual closing hour of 1730 until 0130, The purpose
of this extended coverag¢ was to monitor the activities of
certain LIRING personnel and establish their routine pattern

of activity in preparation for a possible entry: into Chie?
LIRING's residence. . This casing was discontinued on-4 June
when it was determined that the residence was under apparent
protective surveillance. The duration of the. extended coverage
by LIONION-1 was not. long enough to establish: the regular
routine of the target LIRING staffers.

use Previous corton.

i



Sia ATON

CONTINUATION OF i 7
DISPATCH } SECR

PRODUCTION

6. Photographic, : .

; bey
In line with the Station's desire to stress
quaiity over quantity,. the statistical ‘breakdown;

S9f.the LIONION photographic production has been ‘

discontinued. Production during May dropped notice=

ably due to LIONION-I's European vacation, Photo-
graphic. production 1s usually greatost on the days +
of flights:-arriving from PBRUMEN,

b... The Station is unaware of the uso made
Headquarters of the f11m from the pulse camera which
-. ds’ regularly forwarded by the Station, While the
Cost of this operation is minimal, and it requires
only'a limited expenditure of time on the part of. .
LIONION<1 and Station personnel, the presence of the
pulso’camera itself is a problem. ~As Headquarters
ds aware, it is large and difficult to disassemble.
Subsequont to the loss of LISAMPAN audio operations,
the Station removed all, audio cquipment and associated
WOACRE material from the LIONION-1 basehouse, leaving
him only with commercial photographic equipment, |
The one exception to this is the pulse camera. The
Station would appreciate Headquarters’ comments on
the use and value of the take from the pulse canera. ' |
{

SECURITY

i
7. Tho only incident during the recording period which
had a bearing on the security of the LIONION operation. was
the loss of LISAMPAN/DOG. AS far as the Station can determine,
the carrier current transmitter was not in operation at ithe
time ‘the countermeasure sweeps were being conducted in the
vicinity of DOG. Since. this-was the only connection between
LIONION and LISAMPAN, the Station does not feel that LIONION
could have ‘been compromised. ..The entire question of the’ damage
resulting from the. loss of the LISAMPAN operations is under
Study and will shortly be the subject of a separate dispatch,

\

FINANCES

8. During the reporting period, routine LIONION expend-
{tures amounted to $22,701.00 MN (US$1,816.08). In addit
LIONION-1 was given a gift of US$250.00 prior to his depir
for iurope on 4 May. Since LIONION-1's request for five |
weeks leave.could not be’ approved for operational reasons, . ‘
he was given the gift to help finance the air fare for a
second trip to Europe in a year er go if he wants to complete.
hiS original plans.

PLANS : |

9. -The Station does not anticipate any significant |
changes in LIONION operations for the next quarter,

eg CEL de
polit (ees

for John A, PROBERT

'
1
i

: CLABTIFIEATION 1 T
HEP S00 use enewous zovriox | SECRET ltl eos | sors



i

mio,

iSPATCH srcaet

__.._Chief, ¥

ory

ia

Reference

LISAMPA:

OPERATIONAL 0!

-meet regular
when the circumstances demand.
frequently fulfilling “Watchlist” obligations.
"y absence of the Case Officer during September,
LIONIONeL was handled by Walter C, CORNBURY (with whom he is
familiar) and Gerald -D, FANLANGER.

tempor

Action Required: FYI

BACKGROUND

1. The LIONION Project isa fixed

LOPNENTS.

2. Qperati

aphic

3. Phot:

Continued

Distvibution:

orig & 2 - C/WHD

NMMA-34525, 25 April 1968

phot

|___C roxtox progress_Report, 1 April through 30 September 1968
TCHR HAS “te

aphic surveil-
lance capability of LIRING, a base for the radio dispatch of
the LIENBRACE Surveillance Team, and a listening post (LP) for
BAKER and LISAMPAN/DOG. The basehouse is manned by

» who are fully qualified to operate
all of the technical equipment installed in the basehouse.
Tiyis team has“operated under this Project for nearly six years.

Meetings. The Case Officer and LIONION-1
AE the beginning of each week and subsequently
LION{ON-1 reports telephonically
During the

There were no significant changes in
the photographic coverage of LIRING during the reporting period.

os cory ~6-12.9/3
Sar aT Sawa J
October 1968

| HMMA - 35683

SECRET

He

50-6-122/3



= CONTINUATION OF i
‘ DISPATCH t

The singular technical problem,

i od under review concerned LISAMPAS/ BAKER.
Though LIONION-1, was able to activate BAKER regularly every
morning, the BAKER liné Would then deactivate steriously
only to reactivate after several attempts. The t ser tous
ancidént.of this nature occurred on S April, and after con-
sultation.with the WOACRE representative, Waller W. CORNBURY,

7. LIONION-L was instructed to terminate all attempts to activate
H “BAKER over the ensuing weekend. The Station checked to
vig : determi LIRING had-no technical inspectors visiting,
: that preceding week as a security measure and found no evidence
that this was the cise. On 8 April, LIONION-1 successfully
: 7 ‘ activated BAKER. An inspection of the cquiptent by CORNBURY
i. on, li April produced ho satisfactory explanation for this ; |
jomenon.- At, this time, CORNBURY began a compilation of
facts,%Statistics, and. observations concerning the behavior
pattern of BAKER asa basis for determining what corrective
action could be taken. Between 13 and 17 August, a WOACRE
representative from Panama City visited the Station’and spent
several days at the LIONION Basehouse conducting various tests.
The. outcome of that study resulted in a more regular behavior,
pattern and better understanding of the technical difficulties
surrounding BAKER, ~The technical aspects of this study have
already been reported and will be commented on in the LISAMPAN
Progress Report of the same period. At this writing, BAKER
does not present any of the technical mysteries nor the
interrupted service that marked its’ initial operation.

8. Audio = LISAMPAN/DOG. On 10 April 1968, Walter WJ
4 CORNBURY installed a carrier current transmitter in LISAMPAN/
: . GISASH for the transmission of LISAMPAN/DOG to the LIONION
Basehouse. On 11 April 1968, CORNBURY then installed a carrier
current receiver in the LIONION Basehouse after several months
of efforts to achieve this hook-up. ‘The objective of this |
operation was to give LIONION-1 "ear at the gatehouse of
LIRING which Would assist him in identifying callers whom he
photographs, This facility has proven very worthwhile. © Co-
incidentally,- the live-monitoring of DOG by LIONION-1 has |
proven most useful operationally since LIONION-1 has reported
most timely on subjects of high interest to the Station. A
fuller report of this operation will be covered in the LISAMPAN
Progress Report for the same period. :

6. AMGIFT-1. On 13 August 1968, AMGIFT-1, an AMEDIT-

* trained transcriber from JMCOBRA, arrived at the Station. ‘Ilis
task was to transcribe LISAMPAN/BAKER, the most, important and
productive of the LISAMPAN installations. LIONION-1 was
introduced to ANGIFT-1, under alias, and assisted in the
latter's handling since LIONION-1 had been serving as the LP
operator for BAKER. AMGIFT-1's transcriptions were very good -
the best effort to date - and coupled with LIONION-l's intimate
knowledge of LIRING, they made a very good team.” LIONION-1

_ and ANGIFT-L met several times each week to enable LIONION-1

2 to provide ANGIFT-] with important backzround information on

; LIRING. Unfortunately, ANGIFT-1's chronic obsession with what.

turned out to be notional surveillance led to his return to;

JMCOBRA prematurely without any jeopardy to either of the |}

operations. i" \ i

rf
i

t 7. During ‘the period under review,
LIONION: prov. Station basic information on LIRING
which was incorporated into Stution studies. For cxample: |

a. Physical target study of LIRING, HMMA-35228,
9 August 1968.

b. Surveillance of LIRING in support of a
recruitment attempt, UMMA-35276, 19 August 1968.

POYESS 59@ ust eae wastes



Raa TE ATC a er

iw

. Physical target study of LIRING, 30 August

Individual Photos:

- AT8 Juno - 461 August - 505
- 369 July - 672 September ~. 412

The first three months of the reporting period nearly
equaied the production figures of the previous
Yeperting period but rose sharply in July and August
. because of PBRUMEN celebrations and local student
disturbances, LIONION-1's target in this phase of
the operation: remains the same; suspect WOLADY
visitors, visiting PBRUMENers, and the few others
he has not.seen beforg who do not fall in the fore-
going categories.

b. Impulse Production, LIONION-1 produced
5,900 feet of film during the reporting period. The
Station continues to forward the film to Ileadquarters
-for development and processing.

cellaneous., Because LIONI' 1 live-monitors
LISAM ER and LISAMPAN/DOG, the Station received timely

reporting oa the followin,

9.0

2. PBRUMEN offer of asylum to Antonio ARGUEDAS,
ex-Bolivian Minister of Interior.

bd. The use of LIRING as a mail channel in
support of PBRUNEN clandestine operations in Latin
America.

c. The initiation of a new television station
in PSRUMEY,

d. Arrival and departure of LIRING employees,
PCS or TDY.

e@. LIRING reaction to the detention by the
LITENPOs of an AMBASSOON eriployee.

SECURITY

10, There have been no known incidents during the
reporting period which adversely affected the security of this
operation or of its personnel.

li, Though LIONION-1 and LIONIO: 2 surmise that LISAMPAN/
DOG is controlied by another baschouse, they have not been
briefed that this is the case nor have they made any inquiries.

1

12, The unusual behavior of AMGIFT-1 affected LIONIO:
measurably, Dut once LIONION-1 was assured that ANGIFT-1 was
not under surveillance he regained his composure.

Because LIONION-1 live-monitors LISAMPAN/BAKER and
increased ‘measure of security has been added to the

N operation not previously possible because of the lack
of timely reporting from ihe LISASH LP cpevaturs.

: é eas TSS

53a usc reee re es | SECRET



CONTINUATION OF j ce i
DISPATCH a _SECRET

“MMA = 35683

FENANCES

4. During the reporting period, LIONION-1 was given a
raise in his salary effective 1l October 19638,

is. oukdown of Expenditures:

vies: LIONION-1 and LLONION-2
: Two Satesites
Misc. Operational Expenses

May. :
Salaries: LIONLON-1 and LIONION-2 $6475.00 MN
Rent: Two Safesites 1750.00
723.90

Misc. Operational Expenses
$5945.90 MN

June
Salaries: LIONION*=1 and LIONION-2 $6475.00 MN
1750.00

10

Rent: Two Safesites
Misc. Operational Expenses

July

Salaries: LIONION-L and LLONION-2 $6475.00 MN
Rent: Wo Safesites 1750.00
Misc. Operational Expenses 309.75
S55aT.
August
Salaries: LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 $6175.00 MN

1750.00

Rent: Two Safesites
Mise. Operational Expenses

MN
September
Salaries: LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 $6475.00 MN
Rent: ‘Iwo Safesites 1750.00
Mise. Operational Expenses 221.50
$5446.50 uN

Quarterly Costs: Last quarter FY 1968 - $26,406.20 MN
First quarter FY 1969 - $26,685.65 MN
PLANS

16, The Station does not anticipate any unusual changes
in the LIONION operation for the ensuing period,

a Cee CURTIS.

— T - CRETESTON

SECRET



Osea |

SECRET/RYBAT

uasiso 108 NLING

Chief, WH Division : }_X__froornng excuato
nt, [ONLF QUALIFIED ObSE
Chief of Station, INCOBRA eax cr mavens

Chief of Station, Mexico city// [cron
cog '
PORUMEN/Physieal Target Study of tho Cuban Embassy, Wexico City

Ta RTOS aunts

Action Required: FYI : : {.

Reference :  WMMA-35228, “9 August 1968 : a
: -

2, LIONION-2 has provided the following information on

a : the Cuban Babassy compound as a supplement to reference
dispatch. The DOI is 26 August 1963, ‘

2, Gates and entrances to the compound:

a. Gate for. entry of cars on Francisco Marquez, :
This gate is always closed, and 1s opuned only to
permit cars to enter or leave.

b, Next to this entrance is a gate where people
can enter the compound. There is a doorboll at
this gate which rings in the Gatehouse. This Gate~
house is manned 24 hours a day.

: c. There is a large gate on Calzada Tacubaya
which is always locked.

d, There is a small entrance on Zamora that
is always closed.

e. The Consulate entrance on the corner of

| Francisco Marquez and Zanora is open from 10:00 a.m. :

to 2:00 p.m.

CONTADUCK. cc ese eeeeeeeeecerene

Distribution:
orig & 2 - C/WHD
2 - COS, JMCOBRA

63 eer 50-9-/2

ease HirTRENCE TO TEATON STMSOT AND RUMBLE Dai

September 1968

aa i
SECRET/RYBATINS HY 150-9-12



SECRET/RYBAT RM

HA = 35365

rity of the grounds at night: There are dogs
which are ed Up during the day, but which’ are let loose
during the night. There are also floodlights which illuminate
the grounds during the night.

There are two policezen: on foot
who patrol arouid the Bub hours ad There is also
fa patrol car round: the area, aetimes this car parks in
front of the building and at other times it merely checks in
with the foot patrol men, Late at night the policesen usually
get into one of the cars parked in front of the Bubassy on
Francisco Marquez to sleep or to protect themselves from tho
rain or. cold,

4. Police protectio

5._- Traffic pattern affic slows down after 10:00 p.m.
However; Tacubaya is a main route with several bus lines and
taxis, This traffic continues all night, and considering the
hour, this strect would always Nave more than usuai amount of
traffic. Many cars are parked on the street all night in

his general area, On Francisco Marquez the cars do uct park
on the Bnbassy side of the divided street, but onthe other

side.

6, Activity within the compound:

a, Lights are observed in the Consulate and
Comercial offices until around 8:00 p.m. and
occasionally later, but not all night. On the .
third floor of the Babassy, which has living quarters,
the lights are on until 11:00 or 12:00 p.m.

+ -b, The-officers often return late, after what
appears’ to be their departure at COB. They generally
do not remain long on these late entries and leave
again, Cars come and go often during the late hours,

qe Duty:

a. The Babassy officers pull duty periodically.
There is always an officer on duty all night besides
the lower-echelon man manning the Gatehouse.

b. The man at the Gatehouse usually has someone
with him--another employee or his wife--until about
midnight, apparently to keop him company and listen
to the radio,

8. Services:

a. The Babassy has an emergency source of power.
If the electricity in the area is cut off (which is
not uncommon in Mexico City for short periods), the :
Bubassy continues to have power--although.it appears
this is limited,

b. ,The small gas tanks used by the Babassy are
filled once or twice a month by the Compania Nexicana
de Gas Combustible, S.A.

i
Cli OC dericne
for ‘Willard c. CURTIS

Rew
t aor

53a

T reccenncons RETO

7
Use pnevincs EEHON gorev/aypat 1 ys | 2 Of



5 ee

2
NG

ited bene 7, Meee

Eiaech@ 196900 ose ueeca|

|! LLONLON J
si vito awiancs

\

BACKGROUND

1, LIONION provides WOFIRM with a f1xed photographic surveillance
capability: of LIRING, a base for the radio dispatch of the LIEMBRACE
Surveillance Team, and a Listening Post (LP) for L{SAMPAN/DOG and
BAKER, Tlie basehouse is manned by LIONION-1 and LIONION-2, both

_ fully qualified to: handle all of the equipment -installed in the site,
This team has operated the sume: pasenouse tor photographic sur-

veillance of LIRING for nearly six years,

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS: |

etings. The Case Officer and LIONION-1 meet
ng of overy week and subsequently when the

2, Operational Me
regularly at the begt
circumstances demand,

3. Audio. During this reporting period, the WOACRE Re
tive, Walter W, CORNUURY, successfully activated AN, BS
the LIONION basehouse. © CORNBURY has a. been successful in running
LISAMPAN/DOG from LISAMPAN/LISASH to.the LIONLON baschouse, The
two audio installatio thus providé LIONION-1 with a greater capa~
bility to identify visitors to LIRING (through live monitoring) and
thus ‘affix names to photographs he takes. Previously, tho identifi-
cation of visitors to LIRING required considerable time and effort
but in the short period of LIONION's audio capability this effort
has decreased measurably, See HMMA-34292, 14 Narch 1968, LISAMPAN/
DOG was successfully retransmitted to LIONION on 11 April 1968,

PRODUCTION
he following is a statistical break-

4, Photographic Aspec Tl
down of L{GNON=1"S photographic productions

(CONTINUED)
Distribution:
orig - C/WHD
ie
eee FO 6 fe
asi ETS ja
HMMA~34525 | 25 April 1968

| “Cassio Ti fe WOME
SECRET | Si i 1


CONTINUATION OF |
DISPATCH 1 s

egies neeesrurie ear

as Individual Photos

Febriary = 498
March = 430
TOTAL - 1372

‘This productton isa decrease from the previous reporting period of
+ over 400 photos. but it) reflects one, the familfarity LIONTON-1 has
« jdeveloped with the constant stream of LURING visitors, and two, a
2B deemphasis on targets, i.e., LIONION-1 now concern himself with
uspect PBPRIME: visitors, visiting PBRUMENLERS, and the few others
he has not seen before who do not fall in the above categories.

b. . Impulse Production. During the reporting period tho
LLONION Operation produced 2,700 fvet of film. This film had pre-
viously been processed by Headquarter t per HMMW-16106, 29 January
1968 (at our suggestion: in JIMMA-33841, 17 January 1968), the f1lm was
sent to JMWAVE for processing by the-AMOTS, After nearly a month,
JNWAVE reported that the AMOTS were unable to handle this task
because of the lack of facilities and qualified technicians, the
{nordinate amount of timo necessary to process: it, and the fact that
the exploitation of the take would require such broad dissemination
within and without the AMOT Organization as to jeopardize the security
of the LIONION Operation (see UFGT-21267, 13 February 1968), In view
of this, Headquarters decided that it vould renew the processing of
the film (see HMMW-16194, 7 March 1968),

5, LIONION' s reporting on WOLADY citizens travelling to PBRUMEN
and/or visiting LIRING has been very useful... In one instance, LIONION
was instrumental in proving that aa LNERGO double ageut visited LIRING

URITY

6. There have been no known incidents during the reporting period
which adversely aftected the security of this Operatiorfind its
personnel.

7. LIONION-1 and 2 have been told nothing about the LISAMPAN/
LISASH basehouse from where LISAMPAN/DOG is retransmitted, nor how
this source of information operates, LIONION-1 has speculated on a
number of occasions about the technical difficulties he encounters
from time to time which the Station attributed to at eric and
technical peculiarities of Mexico City. On the other end, LISAMPAN-1
and 2 have not been informed that DCG is being retransmitted. For
the sake of compartmentation, it was decided to maintain this posi-
tion and not to encourage speculation on the part of either group.
The technical aspects of this decision will be covered it the Progress
Report of the LISAMPAN Operation, :

JANUARY
Salaries: LIONION+1 and LIONION-2 $6475.00 MN
- Rent; ‘two Safesites 1750.00 MN
Siistc. Operational Expon: 1200.95 MIN
s 95 MN

FEBRUARY

Salaries: LIONION-1 and LIONION-2
Rent: ‘Two Safesites
Mise. Operational Expenses

|
|

|

| =

|



14-0000 i CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH Hi

MARCH

Salaries: LIONTON-) and LIONION~2 ” $6475.00 AN
t

Rent: to Safesites F 1750.00 MN
Misc. Operational Expenses 858.25 vy

35083-25 uy

QUARTERLY Costs (in $27,331.10

PIANS

Mexican Pesos)

8. the Station docs not anticipate any changes in the LIONION
Operation for the. nr enit& Period except ta a

to some training in the hand1ing. and inter;
Lrsin rfid “BAKER

y that the impuise
v~be-trans ferred

en fo engage tn fixed sur-

Sauired residency of Cher, LIRING .



‘4eghoo0

Tenmnaariow

SECRET

Chief, WH/COoG

Chief of Station, wexico city/: ~~
paar CS PBRUMEN/LI Operational

Proxess Report ~ 1 October through 31 Deceaber 1967 :

i fexeonye

Action Required: FYI

Reference ? HMMA-33320, 19 October 1967 ies

Ly. Project. Background: LIONION provides BOFIRM with au
fixed ‘photographic surveillance of LIRING as well as a base |

for the radio dispatch of the LIEMBRACE Survelitaics Team.
The safesite is manned by LIONION-1 and LIONION-2, both fully
{rained in the photoxraphic equipment utilized in’ this
installation. The reference, covering the period 1 July

through 30 September 1967, 18 the last progress report for
this project.

2. Operational Developments:

A. Introduction of new Case Officer. on

j1 December 1957, Matthew DINGLEY introduced Oliver
BD. CIMOCH to LIONION-1 as Lhe new ‘Case Officer for
this operation. All previous communications plans

were continued pending CINOCH's familiarization
igh wexice City - an ‘offer readily accepted by
LIONION-1,

* Continued.

Distribution:
Orig & 2 - c/iHD
V~ C/BU/COG feeTe Pry

cs Copy ae

TDSPAFCH SERECL AND AUMaER

| HMNA - 33804

Corcrrcar)

Gitano
SECRET} ©



CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH SECR Huma - 33804

B. Operational meetings. During the reporting
period operational meetings were held with LIQNION-1
on a Weekly basis. Meetings were held in either
the LIONION safchouse (not the LP) or in car pickups
The frequent changes of meeting sites resulted in
no security problems. . é

C. Audio -for-LIONION. Meretofore, LIONION has
provided nothing more than photographs which, though |
extremely useful, have been wanting Since a labor tous |
effort on the Station's part has been réquired to
complete the identification of those photographed. |
, The Station, therefore, plans to link LIONION to
: LISAMPAN/DOG, which will improve the situation
»* + | markedly. More research, however, will be needed

before this can become reality.

|
'
|

3 Production: The -LIONION Project produced 1794 individual
Photographs and 3500 feet of pulse camera film during the |
period. Furthermore, LIONION-1's log of. all persons entering
and leaving LIRING has been most useful, as has been tho log
of all vehicles and their iicenses. | LIONION-1's attention

to detail, organization, and accuracy’ has been exemplary.
During this period he identified three new employees. The |
Photos of the people were shown to LITAMIL-7: for confirmation
and to obtain names and background information. LIONION-1 |
will continue to make strip prints of all the persons entering
and exiting LIRING, but his output of enlarged prints will be
cut back in‘view of is familiarity with LIRING and its j
personnel. This curtailment of print production (duplicative
for the most part) should not materially affect the operations
coverage. LIONION-1 as apprehensive about this move but =
realizés that it provides him with more responsibility and
discretion re "blowups" within broad guidelines dictated by

the Station. The Station anticipates no problem with this
change.

: 4. Security: There have been no known incidents during
the reporting period which adversely aifected the security
of this operation and its personnel.

5. Finances:

October :

Salaries: LIONION-1, LIONION-2 $ 6475.00 MN i

Rent: Two Safesites 1500.00 SIN :
Miscellaneous Operational Expenses _1397.30 MN
$9372.30 tin
, November
a Salarie: LIONION-1, LIONION-2 S$ 6475.00 NN :

Rent: wo Safesites 1500.00 MIN
Miscellaneous Operational Expenses

410.65
385.

December

Salaries:  LIONION-1, LIONION-2 $ 6475.00 WW

Rent: Two Safesites . 1500.00 SIN
Miscellaneous Operational Expenses 1397.30 MN

+ Xmas Bonuses (LIONION-1, -2) 6A75.00_ ¥
7 $15847.30 WW
Quarterly Costs (in U.S. dollars) $2,688.42 us

susteiisstuasieiins itt uusiapasadasusssnten etetens

cuagsin canati

SECRET

wee menous roman |



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

There are no significant operational or
changes planned for the ensuing period.

fot Cok ik NOL

6. Pla
administrat.



DISPATCH [cts

“Chief, Wit Division

wo. a
Chief, wi/coc

Chief of Station, Mexico City

sana
‘2 PBRUNEN/Operational/LLONION Progress: Report 1 July through 30. Sepstembe
ain eiGuiaTO RINT :

REFERENCE: -HMMA~32502, 12 July 1967

. 1, PROJECT BACKGROUND AND REP

Project LIONION is a long-term operational support project designe
to provide. fixed photographic, technical, and physical surveillance of
the PBRUMEN Embassy and Coasulate in Mexico City. A corollary :
objective is to provide for a mechanism which can fulfill various,
miscellaneous PBRUMEN support type requirements. The LIONION b.
house, which serves as the photographic base, an L/P and provide
vadlordispatching base for the LUEMBRACE surveillance team, continues
to be manned by LIONION-1 and LIONION-2, The dast regularly scheduled
LIONION progress report, covering the period 1 Aprii through 30 June
1967, was forwarded in reference,

2, AGENT CONTACT AND PERFORMANCE

Durin,

“the period under review, LIONION-1 was seen 18 times and
LIONION=2 on four occasions in regular operational meetings. Meetings
were held in the LIONION safehouse, in the Case Officer's home after
dark, in restaurants or in moving vehicles after street-corner pick-
ups. . Other than the intentional rotation of meoting sites and tines
no changes were made in the LIONION communications systems. ‘

As noted in reference, LIONION-1 was hospitalized for emorgency
surgery to treat a perforated ulcer on 27 Juns. LIONION-1 did not
revover sufficiently to provide fulltime coverage until mid-July, a
fact, given his conscientious nature, lowered his morale slightly.
However, after returning to fulltime work and receiving assurances
[~ from the Case Officer, LIONION-1 perked-up considerably. Since that
timo, LION{ON-1 has performed inthe exémplary manner which the Sta-
tion has come to expect of him. Other than.cited above, thore have
been no agent handling, coatrol,. or morale problems daring the report-

ing period,
(CONTINUED)

Distribution: CS cop f
Orig &/1/~ C/o © Cony pols

1 - C/Wi/CoG z ae ae i sees i
as TO wT a a site ;
| HMMA-33320 19 October 1967 u

siIaTON coor
SECRET 50-6-122/3 D



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

i

ACCOMPLISK'

ve General = Throughout the pertod undév review, with the
exception of the, period of LIONION-1's recuperation, this project
ore gnted to provide the Station with valuable photosraphic coverage
Of the project ts, to provide an L/P “for pending LUSAMPAN instal-
dations, in fo providing tnteresting observations on target
personnel, eo eof who. e Of interest to the PBRUMEN Section's
recruitment program, : i

b lly, LIONION provided 1520 individual photographs
(whiten: he processed himself) of persons and/or vehicles centering or
leaving the target Embassy as well as 2,500 feet of pulse camera’ film
Coverage of the Consulate (which is fortarded to Headquarters for

processing), .

Daring the period under review, LIONION-1 obtained and furnishdd
anew safe apartzent, which will be used fer sitive or lengthy :
moctings with LIRESORT-1 as well as LIONION-1, This sate sits has
been stocked with a sufficient supply of food'so as to allow two
persons to live there for at least three days, in the event the
Station ever neéds ‘a “cooling off" site for an agent or defector,

“Statisti

a

4. LIONION-1's spotting, observation and reporting proved ‘to’ be
oxtremely valuable in support of the Station's effort to identify and
wrap-up the local PBRUMEN subversive support apparat,

4. MISCELLANEOUS

a. Technical support - Tr early July, Walter W. CORNBURY accompa~
nied Cornelius L. PEUVION to the LIONION baseho1se to inspect and”
repair the pulse camera (affectionately and with good reason called
the "monster" by the LIONIONs). In addition CORNBURY provided ore new
Jens for LIONION=1's printor/onlarger and the majority of the photo=
graphic supplies used in this operation,

bd. Security.~ There have been no known incidents during the
cePoreing period which adversely affected the security of this project
or the related personnel.

Coy Plans ~ As noted in reference, the Station plans to utilize
ETONION-1 and LIONION-2 as L/P operators for a portion of the LUSAMPAN
operation. It is anticipated that this L/P will bo in operation by
1 November 1967. Other than noted above, there are no significant
operational or administrative changes planned for the ensuing period,

4 ye
pesprend &. Nrectgty
“Stor i

Willard C, CURTIS



ea ay
Hier Oves Oro . 7
; CLASSIFIED NESSAGE toruconrs 2D

caansier To/P1Ke no.
wettr to te wes oe Aa SECT
pesto Cara, SS aa + core

rues ner. 19 onuwen

aa

SECRET 14223@Z2 CITE MEXICO CITY 2131

atch Vida srw 12154
PBRUMEN LIONION
REF MEXICO CITY 1933 6/47 eea'¥7)
FULL PHOTO. COVERAGE LIRING REINITIATED 12 JULY,
SECRET.
Br orONET :

Le


7

chtet, WHD

CoaseeaTIOn

so nnn sine equim |

lower qustirico ors

C/wH/CoG Jean yuace wocxno

Tite

Chiof of Station, Mexico Cit, : wicroray

‘ONC! PERUMEN/Oporational/LIONION rogresa Report
“1 Aprtl through 30 June 1967

"ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Reforence: A, 1MA-31917, 27 April 1967

le

B. MEXICO CITY-1882, 23 June.1967
C, MEXICO CITY-1933, 28 June 1967
D. MEXICO CITY-1945, 29 June 1567

PROJHCT_HACKGHOUND AND REPORTING
Project LIONION is a lonx-tcrm operational support project designed
to provide fixed photographic and physical surveillance of the PBRUMEN
tmbassy and Consulate in Mexico City as well as to fulfill miscellaneous
PBRUMEN support type requirements. The LIONION base, which covers both
of tho nbovo-cited targets and also provides a radio-dispatching base,
for the LIEMBRACE surveillance team, continues to be manned by LIONION-1

~ and LIONTON-2, The last regularly scheduled LICNION progress report, |

covering the period 1 January through 31 March 1967, vas forvanied
as reference A, while salicnt interim developments were forwarded in

refarences B, through D, !

AGENE COMPACT AND
Durlng, the pertod under review, LIONICN-1 wes seen on 16 occasiona
and LIONION-2 once by the undersigned in remilar, operntlonal meetings.
Other than intentional variations in mecting times and alte, no basic
changes were wna in the LIONICN communleations cystem. ‘

continued...

Distribution:
De chiet/wmio

"CROE REFERERCE TO

carne Sr A ERT == ante

roma - 52502 [. 22 July 1967

‘CLASSiFicaTiON GS FILE MUMER

SECRET §0-6-122/3



| CONTINUATION OF. |
OISPATCH i

Hot,

het
subvel Llane al
ner

tas

explary

ns doe

t
ported

since this
event o

ener:
a sur

Y omergeney. surcery
nied ulcer. Sines BIOVLONS@'s presence wns
required at.the Respital during operation and throughout the :
post-one waleseense pertol, eovernse of both e

nud Congula: eked. Lt ated that operntions
10 July.

i .
H
i
i i .
rygets z
Libtes arid :
Himgel’) and aomraxinatedy 1.
the Consulete, whieh wag forvamted to Hend- i
nthe axte: on the LO
fe Louse (Yor whic! LTCNION-1 successfully used, He
ied Lo otinin'a new sa th LTRF or .
FION-L was insticted Lo Loente a nov slte amt after an :
eh fou table Lecation in inte June. LIONTON-1-
lide the smont by mid-July.
hy =
a) Suewthy = neident note
2, eochLen a. above deen no known incidents wh
at ct or the personnel.
n) aragiaph 3 of
plans to ut sl LECNTON-2
of 4 Other than this, nee
ve changes planed ror the ensuing
: i “> ° . :
S A
ores be Vite
Millart C, CURTIS
882" 53q wae waevous vorton SECR



"ET. 19 aaavce C]

+ Osis.

CRE T 282320" CITE MEXICO CITY 1953:°
ECTOR .

28 Jun 67 100547,

& TONION

MORNING 27 JUNE LIONION-1 HOSPITALIZED FOR EMERGENCY SURGERY

ATTENDED DURING OPEPATION BY LIONION-2 ¥WHO
StRTEL 28 JUNE SURGERY SUCCESS!

310

FERFORATED ULCER,

FUL AND L-i IN GOOD CONDITION,

COVERAGE OF LIRING SUSPENDED FOR 7 To 1@ DAYS, WILL ADVISE,
cRET



Prrcrs

SECRET

DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division
c/mi/cocs

Chief of Station, Mexico Cit wicrornw

Sac < PBRUMEN /Operat {onal /LIONION Progress Report for the period
1 January through 31 March 1967 : tHe
‘STN RERURED - REFERENCED

no ceasng RequeeD
Jom custiried oF
JUDGE INDE

(A) muMlA-30996, 3 January 1967 a
(B) MEXICO CITY 0808, 23 March 1967 :

PROJECT BACKGROUND AND REPORTING
IREPORT ING

Project LIONION is: long-term support type project designed
primariiy to provide fixed photographic and Physical surveil-
lance of the PBRUMEN. -Bubassy and Consulate in Mexico City. The
LIONION base; which covers both of the above-citod targets,
continues to be manned by LIONION@1 “and LIONION-2, The last
regularly scheduled progress ‘report, covering the Period through
December 1966 was submitted as reference (A), Ef

2. AGENT CONTACT : : q

- yy _During the period under review, LIONION-1 was seen weekly
by the. undersigned ‘or Howard A, TRECKLER, In late January, the
operational and administrative responsibilities for Project
LIONION were transfered from TRECKLER to Cornelius L, PEUVION,
No agent handling, control’ or administrative problems were

the engered during the turnover and none are anticipated during
the ensuing period, :

oeeeees-continued

Distribution:
i= CAD
1 = C/At/cogs 1h. >

&S copy

CANS REFERENCE TO eS SHR FO MLSE

BMMA~31917
Every

SECRET



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

1
i SECRET

3. AGENT PERFORMANCE AND MORALE

‘ :
Not withstanding the boring and difficuit nature of tis
Operational ‘assignment, LIONION-1 continues to perform in an
excuplery wacher, \Sioject 15 indeed a liigniy mulivated agent

as indicated by his willingness to perform .this rather menial

task day-after day,'when, with his educational background he

undouvtedly ‘could ‘obtain more interesting and more lucrative
<employment,:"In order to alleviate the morale Problems cited in
‘paragraph 7-of reference, the Station assisted LIONION-1 -in the

purchase of a new*engihe for his vehicle. This unexpected gesture

was greatly-appreciated by LIONION-1 and an immediate change for

the better in Subject's frame-of-mind was noted,

4. ACCOMPLISHMENTS

i (a)" “Throughout the period under review, Project LIONION
continued’.to provide the Station with the invaluable photographic
coverage of the targets. In addition, LIONION~l continued to
“provide interesting observations on the personalities and activ-
ites of the personnel working in the target. After years of
observation, LIONION-1 can virtually tell the framo of mind and
disposition of the regular inhabitants. LIONION-1's observations
on the Subject of reference (B) were most valuable to the Station
in the planning of the. recruitment of this individual, In >
addition, LIONION-1 provided radio dispatching support during
thig recruitment operation; without which, the attempt would
have been virtually impossible,

(b) Statistically, LIONION-1 provided approximately 1600
individual photographs of persons entering and leaving the
target kmbassy (which heprinted and developed himself) and
approximately 2100 feet of film coverage of the Consulate.

(c) There wore no. intelligence disseminations from this
operation during the reporting period, since a3 previously
described Project LIONION primarily @ support type operation,

(4) Details have previously been submitted to Headquarters
concerning LIONION~i's support in the AMBEATLE operation.

5. PLANS

As noted in paragraph 14 of reference (A), Station plans to
utilize LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 as L/P operators in support of
the LISAMPAN operation, Other than this, there are no significant
operational or administrative changes planned for the ensuring

period,

Qk Pawan

for/Willard C. CURTIS



nD s Director
Federal Buress: of Investigation
Attention; N=. Sy Je Papich

FROM 1 ‘Deputy, Directer for Plans
SUBJSCT: 0 Visitors to the Cuban Eabasay, Mexico City

6

1. A usually relistie source reportod that on 27 October
1966 the Cuban Eabassy, Mexico City vas visited by- the occupants
of a vehicle vhich bore fexas licenec plate Di-O-i\ (vnite figures
on grean). Tho vohicle wsa identified as n 2-deor Ford dolaxte.

2. Lnvestigatioa revealed that thts plate vos assimmed to a
1966 Ford Galaxie ovne2 ty Lire J. M. OBAMAS of 3604 Bocalight Streot,
Bl Peso, Texas.

3. Credit Rurem aod Police chocka vere negative. A review
of the 1965 Ei Paso City Eirectory failed to cbov en address of
3604 Noonlight Strest. iambera akip the 3500 and 3400 blocks ond
are fren 3iC0 to 3700 reectively. The naw J. M. ORME did not
oppear in the City Directoxy or in the 196é EL Peao Telephone Die
rectory.

4, Phis Office hel no infomation on ORUAS.

5. The information comained herein ie not to be disseminated
in vhole or in part outside your Burcau without prior speroval of
this office,

CECTH315/00232-67

Date : 10 January 17

BASIC HAMA-30496, 10 Bevember 1966
PROJECT: LIONION

LIAISON:

FIR

me A

aS COPY



CSCI-316/00232-67
WY/1/Jane Zerance/ pon

Distribution:
0&1 - Addressee Sea
(B= RE (50-6-120/%)
eo = CI/LEA
ce = CI/RLA
ce = Wi/1/Hex
ec + WH/1/Chrono
ec = WH/PO/A
ce = Mex/J. Zerance

Coordinated with: =
wH/coG/?T



Action Seqaired: FYI
Reference 2 1254A-30496, 10 Kovenber 1966

es

1. Yexss lcense plat ¥AC-353 "woo assigned to 0 1966
+ Qldsaodile omed by I.Wa *HKRIAWESE of/1414 Mile: Strevt, Houston, |
Tams, irrestigation disclosed that thio adiress is the current, . |
active leeation of on Olimobile dealership. Tt vas indicated that
quite often, when a car {9 purchased frm a dealer on the installe |
rent ‘plex, the address given for the registration is the dealer's
ediress; this done to insure that the title registration is returned
to the desler, vho rotning it until the car is fully paid,

| ___2- Ewuston Credit Bureau files contatned @ recom! on a John B.
ANERNANDSE, Vife litLda F., resident of! D115 verett Street, Houston, TEAS.
Ee was explayed as
not sho, Bet

3. Souston Police hata recor of a litléa SIRRNAMAZ, bora
4 Sestember 1920 at Wali, Texas, describe! as a Noxiean-Anerican,
S* 10", 215 ibs, brow eyoo, black hair, vho was arrested at ths
Preston Bete} in Houston on 20 March 19h on a prostitution charge.

if
i
t

Yas Sousten City Directory Usted a Jotn 5. HERNANDEZ,
wifo Bilta of the Everett, Street address aml a Listing for a
Nre. Hilta SERNAMDEZ of 7614 Avemie K, No further daforation E

reflected. pect |
(Continued)

Distribution:
2 - COS, Kexico City

= waa AND AUURER

parhacT eC a

HUSK ity i AKI
_ Ae omer



CONTINUATION OF Hl eR EES
OISPATCH | ines 15169
5+ Thore vere no Kendquarters tracés on either HERHANDEZ,

6+ Thto information 1s being passed to EASA) Hoadquarters.

Tuas RATON

USE eeevious cornon,

H SECKST

ae ed



1

CRAIN

ERE

DISPATCH

XXX

[ro ote mre
a7 Gt

at tons i711: s Report. tor
erdod April gh Bocember 1966

J. There has beun only one major administrative change in the
LIONION Project during this’ period and that wes the assumption’ of
responsiblity of Case Officer hy Howard \. IRECKLER upon the
departure of Lawrence Fy DARKER from Mexico tn August 1966. In
addttion, Ruy NCOTTE, Ut EF representative has beon
replaced by Walter W, CORNBURY,  TRECKLER 4 the alias of ."Jos.
and CORNBURY the alias of "Jack" for mostines with LUONTON=1 and
LIONTON=-2

the establishment ofa
ont by LIONTON-1,
thas provided LIONIO!

2. Anothor administrative change w
revolving fund accounting system for empl
This bas simplified the payment ten
with a small tuna for emorgency parpos

3, Whereas the majority of tie previous etings had beon
held between NCOTTE and (ION{ONA1, all mootings are now heldi
betweon TRECKIEX and ITONION=-L for the condict of routine opera
fional business and the overall ranning and manaxement of the
Project. Meotings with CONNBURY aro for purely technical supgort,

4. Darin
originally ovtaingd the LIONION B:
en able: to observe some of the nt from the street,
the LIONION das House Visible so urity factors

pap made by TRECKLER and LTONTON=1 over a period of gavarat days,

but no visinle lems were neted, LTONION=1 was instructed
to recheck his procedures for preparing the equipment for and
insure that he was not slipping a bit in security,

(CONTIN,

the month of October 1 David MV. ONTESTED, who!
asa, reported the

Distribution:
Orde 205

IX=30996 3 Januar
even porerreer

RORET 50-S-12273

s



Vine ang nwa

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

emealloued possthle security jha
taken by LIONLON=1, on the tnst
router ity. ‘These, were
re huns on the window through \
thts will eliminate the posst- |
Perot outline anadows of the equipment appoarimt on the drapes
if light ts plac. wetind the equipment, (2) The wall behind the
Palse camera was cov red with a binck felt eloth to eliminate out=
dine Of the cquiprent from the oppusite direction sat ot dows on
phe wall. (3) teportabls screen was crected behind the pulse
send Gilso dark in color) for added blockage of si lheser te outline
of the equipment, Tits also-scrves as a screen ot the equipment ifrom
the eyes of the’ servant should she knock on the door Paring LIONTON=1, +
Ne does not now have to opon th door like a Ousewile trying to koep
the salesman's foot out of 1t but can open the loor tully and_ask

what she wants.

as follows
which the

Pnown

6. LIONION-1 4% a highly motivated agent, performing a most:
boring and difficult task, photographie surveillance of the target,
The only Uiversion he has from this 19 when the survedllance téam |
is boing utilized and he functions ay the dispatcher, The years tn
this job are bertnning to tell a bit on LIONTON-1 ee he ts a littqe
nore pent up and nervous, It ts diffteult ¢o unilerstand how an
gducated man such as LJONLON-1 can perform such a menial task unless
it is by motivation anid tre to perform some service in the strurgle
against the PEKUMEN rezimo. Also, LIONION-t Utterally has to be
forced to take a vacation, te spends five and a Nett days taking
photograpns, the weekend printing and dovelopin: and perhaps only
fowee trot geuble Of nights a week, The Case Officor intends to
Force LEONION-1 to take more weckends away ftom wvoek and spend more
time travelling outside Mexico City, eclally on long woekend
holidays,

7. A major portion of the whole LIONION=1 problom ties with |
LIONION-2,° hig mother, While ske is in a way an assistant to him
and functions as a basehouse keeper when ho is not Present in the
owse, she is also like a prison warden as sho will not do anything
unless ‘he ts with her. It is plainly a case of triarch completely
Gependent on son, LIGNICH=2 wlll not even go to a department store
a few short blo from the baschouse to buy "dainties” unless
LIONI 1 takes her. i@ also has the feel that LLONL I's meet
Brothers, her other soas.who are both citizens ant residents of
HOLADY, "do not like her", Therefore, ghe will not ko OfF to visit
them, not even for a short visit to a wedding of a granddaughter
which took place recently.

This problem has been discussed openly and frankly with
d by the Cass Officer and it is felt that LTONION-1 ts
fenfident that his problem is known to us and we understaad ity
Frere can be no real cure for a matriarchal problem such as this,
bat attempts can be made to alleviate it tomporartly from cine to
time. This will be done by forcing LIONION-1 to take vacat tons/
ExAbs and trying to get LIONION-2 to do the same even it the old |
seulduguery of "for security reasons” has to be ployed to accompli
it. There 1s no immediate danger to the LIONION Project as longa
this problem is understood and dealt with,

OPERATIONAL: :
9, The LIONION Ope
with the invaluable photographic caver
tion, LIONION-1 is being submitted to
the Case Officer in which he is provi
on the personalities and activities of the personnel working in the
target. After years of observation, LIONION-] can vi tually tel?
the exact’ frame of mind and disposition of the seralar inhabitants
oF the target.

~ CARP

the Station

ation continues to provi

ge of the target. In addi-
in picking” session by

interesting o! vations

rome
ior 5807 we reenoos cn SHOREY



CONTINUATION OF *
DISPATCH 3996

2 the services of LIONION-1, fo lias heon
ind! viduads within the target to

, 1 logs on thety comings and odn
paring preliminary target st

routdl
rane of tt
ec at prepare sp:
These have been very helpful in p
oz these individual

aye

IL. The value of LIONTON=1 and his Professional prowes:
Proved tn Auzuse’ 1966, when the-Station had a pertod of less than
12 hours to spot, surved] and attempt recruitment of do 0:
Bermudez, LIOXION-1 was ablo to spot the target and dispatch the
Survelilance, team on the correct tarzet without benefit of a photo-
graph and relying only on a description of the target given to hin
by the Case Officer, E :

12, LIONION~1 is anxious to get back in te the "listening-
post" business again and to that effect has been ever vigilant for.
another opportunity to place a LIROMANCE type device within the ‘
target, = :

A

In

ELLIGENCE:

13. There were no intelligence disseminations from this Opera-
tion during this pertod, the LIONION Project ts primarily a support
PXP operation as described previously. Any intelligence coming
from the activities of this Project mast he considered as a by-
Product only,

BIANS:

if. Porhaps the most significant plans for the future are to
possibly utllize the LIONION baschouse tnd TTOSre: ~l and LIONTON-2
as LP operators in support of the LISAMPAN Op tion. ‘fhe Case
Officer intends to continue tho sDrato~picking" sessions on target
personnel and develop LIOMIONL'I'g yonas for spotting the unusual
that would Provide key elements to a ta et study, toa point where
he Automatically looks for it and reports tt The LIONION Project
wil] continue to be primarily a Photographic support operation.

ny

for
Willord C, curtis

CASSIFCATION

SECRERT

Teena



ot Station, Hesico City

a: SSS i i =a

Chief of Station, JUZAVR

fs DYVOUR/PORUNER/Oporat ional 7

LITE F

— qed Tia ere tec * dancval (and _t
SEPERERCES: A, MSIF 24310, 30 August 1960
B. UPGY 5475, 25 August 1965
€. UGA 25423, 4 July 1965

. 1, Daring the LITESPO Projcet year expiring oo S1 Octeber 1966
JSWAVE has received LITBEPO dispatenes with copies of mantfeats and
rollo of aterofils (poattive copy per reference B,) containing photo-
Graphs of pssuports,

2, Jiea¥s nas, bad ASHUG/1 view tho microfilm of the above-cited
project. Uuring hia review AUNUG-1 has wade a cueber of identifications
Rovever, 811 tho persons identified had been identified provicusly by

im (wbilo being dobriefed at Headquarterg) and are a wetter of record
in the ABMUG=1 debriofing files, SHYAVE bas bad po other tse far the
. tlerofils ond we iave nat found any use far the manifeats, Consequently
the LITEHPO nicroftin and the seconpanyiog manifests Rnve bem of no

fi

3. In this rozard niesee ase weference C,, chich pértaias to tre
program of having AMMUG-1 review LtONio# pulse camera fii, In thet
dispatch JaUAYE resorted ao new operations) sdontivieations or leads
have beon produced.

4. In both cansen (LIvEEPO and LIONIOH) 1% appears that the JHWAUE
Sogment of these activities does sot Justify the expeuse of continuing
to procesn the files and manifests ier forvardiag to SiPAVE,

MULLIP G. BLAARD

DISTRIDUT TON; i
38 + COS, Noxico City

aos >

i Be F/O to kis

j SSE osspateneD

ISEP 2 5 1965

‘ATE TYPED

‘DISPATCH SYRFEOL <AD NOWEER

-__UFGA 28036
NADRUARTERS Tick NURSE



eee ee

i fo: «Director
i Federal Buresu of Investigation
Attantion: Mr. 3, J, Papich

FROM =: «Deputy Director for Plans
" gungecT:¢ Amorican Auto at ‘Cuban Embaasy, Mexico City

“1, Reforence-.te made to our CSCI 31¢6/00527-66 and a

. subsequent request on 28 June 1986 from the Federal Bureau

sof Investigation for the. photographs mentioned in our CSCI

oa and permiesion to pass these photographs to the Department
of State and the Armed Services,

2. Attached are serox copies of the photographs. ae
Glosay reproductions of the photographs ore being processed .
and vill be forwarded to you at a later dato.

-_ 3, Permission 1g granted to pass the photographs to
both the Dopartment of State and the Armod Services.

CSCI~316/04028-68
Attachment: Three zerox copies of photographs

9 August. 1966

DDP/WH/C/CICS/E.Ayers:sr Based On: Photos are Att. to
HMMA=27803
Distribution;
Orig.& 1 - Addressee . Project : LIONION
- RID, w/att.

i = CI/LIA File No,: 50-6-122/3 :
1 ~ CI/RSA :
1 = WH/C/RR/RE :
2 - WH/L, w/ait. :
1 = Originator :

1 - WH/C/cICS, w/att.

TO beeen en gnerenccesytemeretnsinnces

€S CGFY

A
[ Semenmmtsiaeaca i
| Ta ae

Att
achment to cscr 316/04028_66 H

Attachment to
CSCI 316/04028-66

Attachment to
CSCL 316/04028-66 .


DISPATCH

Chief of Stat:ion, JMWAVE x

wo

Chief of Station, Mexico City

(° PBRUMEH/LLOiI01/Tranmittal of legatives

RENOWN REQUIRED RU PENCE

Rofcrences: A. UFGY-5989 :
B. MM@W-1212, 27 December 1965

1. Under separate cover are ten (10) rolls of 3fmm fils, vhich. inclule
five (5) negatives and five (5) positive negatives for use by Station IMMAVE
a indicated in reference B. The original negatives of these filas will be
sent to RI Archives for retention. zi

2. Folloving ia a manifest of those rolls which are being forvarded to
SHAVE:

March 14, 15, 16 = 1966
March 17, 18

“March 28, 29, 30
Merch 30, 31 and April 1
April 5, 6

Tyman D, McCLXMONDT

Attachment:
10 rolls film - u. 5. c.

Diotribution:
2 = COS, WAVE w/att
1 + COS, Mexico City w/o att

6 June 1966 piece

“CROSS ReFEENCE TO DISPATCH S¥MSCX AND RUMEN

T
|
|
1

DISPATC’..

1S)" 53° use eecvious e:



DISPATCH [| steuss

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Ey

Chief cf Station, Hexico City

oe
Chier’,
wore
© PRRUGH/LIONION/ Tronaalttal of * Hegatives eerie apie
Tena TMA RUTIURES >
Reference: A. RMW-14212, 27 December 1965 if
B. 120-6373, 16 March 1966 a
C.  IMet-6334, 3 March 1966

1. Under separate covor are 60 roils of 3m film, vhich inclute 30 negatives
and:30 positive negatives for use by Station JMVAYE uo indicated 1n reference A.
Tin ‘riginal negatives of thee fLino vill be sont to RI/Archives far retention.

WH Divielon

: 2. In view of: the expense of Eire tet the negatives, JMWAVE 1s requested
to mevicw the usefulness of thie film and advise Headquarters as to ito necessity.

3. Following is a manifest of those rolls which are being forvarded to JMWAVE:

October
1- MRsEL65 9 -has 16 - 2/3/6

Docenbor —

November

2-7/8 20 - 8/9/10 17-849
2 - D/13/14 na - L/12/15 18 - 10f3/1h/25
= 15/18/19 Be 1g iB 19 = 16/17/20
3 = 19/20/22. 3 = 19/22/23 -
6 - 22% 25 ab - Besyee
TT erie8 15 = 29/30 & 1/2 Dec.
8 ~ 28/29 & 3 Nov.
January February March
20-3 t0T 25 = 1/2/3 30 = 9/10/u. {
21-10to lb 26 + 4/7/8
22 = 17/18/i9/20 “ef - 0 wilt
23 = 21/24/25/26 28 = 18 to 25

29 ~ 28 Feb thru 8 Mor.

60 rolls film - u. 6. ce

Distribution:
2 - WAVE w/att

1 = Mexico w/o att
28 Anril 1966

(enons REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMUCK AND NOCH

UFGW-5959.

a CLASATION

SECRET

“Tee.
ofa wen, San ——
4 7
te fore hb La Zs

SY SF use eaevions vo non


14-0000 4

Sassi

S-E GR Eg

Heplern-Reat sphere piytqton

.- DeKR/C, Chief /xxrer
mu a

PSRUMEN/LIONTON/eperat ional Progreas keport
SUSU RU DHENCES: aan Enna

References: RMMA-

352, 7 October 1965

2. In March 1986 Hoadquartera KURIOT techaictan Geoffrey k, BLOXALD.
spectalist on Photography, viatted the LICNION Buse. BLOXALD vas highly
impressed by the technical nearsper fection of the operation and by LIONION-2 as
4G edteated agent. SLOXALD Indicated to Mugh T. FRANCOTTE that he would look
into possibilities of installing a closed-circuit television system to enable
fhe LIONION agents to renctely sonttoc the LIRING front gata,

3. Both agents assisted che Station tn gurvetltance operatious during the
Period under teview by radiowdf patching the LISMURACE team against selocted
UISING staffera, LICAION2 helped in Coie Glepatching for che first time and did
very well,

4. LIONION*1 has Kept a clone @ Peraonnel and, in one instance,
his views on the Yecruitubility of a fer contributed to @ Station
decision to attespe reccuitaenc,

pai ciidea eee Pele acir ar re ee uae
Digtribution; eet
Voriginal & 1 = chu
2 = pews/e
1 > C/SuRIor
2 - Fiuss

are
i 6 April 1966,

{MOS FILE MUMOER



Taig ANT

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SHA- 25659

s. 2 late March a malfunction necessitated replacement of ths pale
worn clock, Anothr clock Was Teceived from KURIUT in a Tecord ten days,

The rapid ouppore was mich apprectateds

6. To support LIONION-2"'s candidacy for "Inmigvado Kentteta” statue {t
to advance funds for deposit with a Mexican bank
fo het. account,. just as wan done earlier for LIONION-1. A separate dispotch

“AL deal with accountecbility for cheae funda,
7. Momoranda of Oral Comnitment cvering both agents have been eubmitted
‘separately, :

i 8s .LIONION=1 and LIONION-2 continue to do excellent work, Neither hea
Prevented the Station with any agent handling probleme.

ee
, te Fo fo Men
boxy

eae
} LO! connnveo

SE Previous eomon. [



|
i
(
|
i
¥
!



ame

DISPATCH ==

Be | H
Go SECRET

Chief, WH Division

coy =
~Chto£ of Station, JMVAVE

ROM

Chief of statiou, Mexico City
aEer

PBRUMEN/LIONZON/ Operational Prograsa. Report. onan

“ACTION RLQUIELD - REFERER CES

Reforenco: A, HMMA 26576, 8 July 1965
i B. UMMA 27255, 23 September 1965

1, During the period July through September 1965 the LIONION
Qperation moved ahead seoothly, The following figures show photo prodaction
for thio quarter: .

Pulse Camara, Feat Rontax/Ralacone DRS Presa
oh Ekle Expooed, 20_kxaonuce Rolle Froductioa
- Exzoned

July @s0 30 1080
August 1200 34 1224
September 1 1050 28 1008

2. A reconditioned 35 mm pulse causra was received on 22 July and
immediately installed by Hugh T. FRANCOTTE. One ainor breakdowa occurred
during the reporting period owing to # obort in the batterycablas, This wae
repated at. tha’ basshouse and no photographic coverage was lost, Other than this
ene ‘minor problem the camera has been operating satisfactorily. :

continued

Attachesnts: :
As stated = under sopsrate cover

Distribution:
+2 C/wHD > w/ate (usc)
1 = COS SAVE - w/att (usc)
2- Files

(GROSS REFERENCE TO ‘ATE

EMMA 27352
‘CLASSIFICATION Was Fie NUMER
SECRET 50-6-i22/3



IUATICN OF
DISPATCH

is mew 27352

. 3. LICHION-1's cover aa translator, hereto.
= Ehin, vas given a tremendous booat (and challenga) vi
zy “in August to help the Presidencia in translation of tha Preeideat’s State of
j-the Yalou Maasage into English. L=1 wae one of only threa persona chosen for.
"thie work. Interestingly, be wes chosen because he hed heen (astruczed hy Dis
10 to.see that i¢ got bruited:about that L=1 does translations on the ite to
fer bio remittance income,’ -Oné of hie frledde vith clove connections .in the
: idencia heard’ about: this and took'L-1 at his word, When the opportunity arose
Gnd L*1 wos approached he was astounded. Ha checked with-che C/O end wae told;
: ry satisfied vith L*l's work, he mado
Biven on impreooive letter that will keep all
hie, plus the-fact that L-1 18 now
f te as an "inmigraate", seems to solve
maneatly,. A“copy of the letter given to L-l is atached (USC)

fora uetioual and rather
han he was called upon

ig coupletal hie, .five-y
hie cover problem

een sa@e Lol Iocated andyat Station 4:
apartment mentioned {a reference-B.. He’ wv:

_Spottiag this promteing piece of real estate
venting its :

ction, eucceeded in renting the
Comended fut his alertness. 1a
and his ingenious and secure

y of

3. The LIONION cafe apartciént (not the Basehousc) has been stocked
With sufficient: supplies co enable Lt to be used as a safe havan in case the
Station should need it in an emergency. This was done ao a result of the AMIASP
defection vhen the Station euddealy found itself confronted with four PBRUMENEAS:
to house and feed ¢clandeotinely. As "result, Station fe oiteo ara being
stockad with’ food and other supplies, L-1 did an excellent job of fixing up the
“LIONION apartment. The spartaeat was recéntly svopt by Headquarters techatclene
and adjudged ‘clean. The technicians commented that it waa one of the soot

‘desirable and secure safe sites they had seen, another deserved couplisont to
Lol who originally located it,

6. Ll parformed several special observation aasignments for the
Station during the perfod. One of these involved keeping a special log oa the
movement pattern of the Esbasay codo clerk.

7, In all of his work L-1 continues to be ably oupported and anateted
by Liouray-2, :

§. L-l's morals continues high deopite the long hours and genoral
wonotony of hie work, Tha Statiea racently learned to ite ourpriee that L-1
hao beon working sevon days a weok fox aame time, Sundays are davoted to photo
printing, He puto in a full day and long night every day of tha week. To
complicate catters he recently received what enouate to a partial "Dear Johan"!
from his girl friond in Puerto Rico, She informed him che te going out more
often end having a good-tims. This got’ his optrits down for a while but in
no way affected his work. The Station 1s conoidering givdag hima round trip
Nexim Puerto Rico air ticket ca a birthday present im Kovember. This would
Bive bia o chance te pétch things up and to take a much-needed rest. At: prasent
he'will aot take @ day off unleas ordered to do so by the C/O. This ts comand=
able devotion to duty but in the long run it 1e not healthy, Some way will be
found to persuade L-1 co, relex a bit from tine to tima,

9. With the re-establisheant of a PERUMEN CE Unit at Headquartera,
does Headquartere wieh future LIONION Production sont there? Or should it
continue to be Sent of JMNAVE? Please advise,

53a ust eRe



DIRECEICN CENCRAS CE ci7eSiON
Y REUASICNES PSDLICAS

A QUIEN CORRESPONDA.

Por la presente me permite hacer

Gallego,

desu conocimiente que el senor 4

A colaboraré en la traduceién de documentos relativos ¢ les =

1 General, durente los dic:

idedes do esta Direc

30 y 31 del presente mes.

enian ente.
DIRECTOR GENERAL,

gs curt

| SIOATE. 2 Tims 21558



a

BiSPATCH

Chief, WH DL

“CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

v0 a
No"INGEXINO ReOUIRED

aton

OMY GuaUInED OF3e

TWO.
CAN 1UUGEINDOINO

, a
Tom 7 oo

micRonik

chief of station, Hextco city Le *
wee

O PBRUMEN/Prom{eing Developmental Operations

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

1,. Two promising new operations in the PBRUMEN fleld are now in the
developmental stage:

A. Through\LITAMIL-3 the Station laa recruited a barber
who used to“vieit the Embassy regularly to cut the
hatr of PBRUMEN Ambaysadorn and staff employees. | Tha
man has been a long-tine friend of L=3.” Ite has been
reintroduced into the Embasyy and hag viutted there on
three eccasions recently. He does not know who he In
working for beyond L=3. The Ambassador has proven to
be somewhat of a skinflint, paying only 10 pesoa for
a haircut whereas the going price for a haircut at one's
home or office {£3 20 pesos, To date J.-3 has paid the
barber 9 tetal uf 100 pesos (supplied by the Station),
It io planned to put him on a retainer of about 250
pesos a month ($20 US cy) with bonuses as appropriate.
The Statton thugs has a straight razor at the Anbavsador's
throat and, while an accidental slip aight soem worth=
while, it ts believed that this new asset will eventually
prove usetul tn placing technical devices Ingide. On his
‘lace visit he did his hatrcutting in an upstairs room ualy
a wall's thickness from the DCI center. Full PRQ data
and more extensive details wil! be forwarded promptly.

Continued

Distribut Lon:
3 > c/w
3 - Piles

‘DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

“CROSS REFERENCE TO

Se 6193/3) MOA 27253 23 September 1965
= ‘CLASSIFICATION “| Ras rie nomen
Se cnET. 50-6=122/3

50-6-128/3



SUNHINUATION OF
DISPATCH

Xs An apartment dkrectly across the street: from the
Ambassador's of (4 been rented Chroagh LIONION'L
who hag ostengibly reserved {¢ for a notional feted
ot his, @ translator who {s out of the country and
Will avcive back within te aonths. Thts ie a much
better location than the LIONION basehouse but is
being considered for use as sa LP (to received from
additional teehutcal devices ve be planted inatde) ,
Xathee than as another photo base, The Station has
heen after one of the apartrents {n this building
for years,

2. Details on both of these operations will be forwarded soon. This
dispatch Ls only stop-gap imcaaure to keep llwadquarters informed of new devel=

oprente,



DISPATCH eae

Chief, WH Divison

SECRET

Chief of Station, MHAVE

Tom

_Chief of Station, Mexico City
Sancr 7 Z 7

)__PBRUMEN/LIONION/Operational Progress Report anne
‘ACTION ReQUIRED - REFERENCES 5

MICROM

Reference: HMMA 26006, 30 April 1965

“2,1. During the second quarter-of 1965 (the period covered by this

" report) the LIONION operation experienced some technical difficulties which
have not been solved to date, Normal coverage of the target was obtained
throughout the month of April with the exposure of some 600 feet of film by
the pulee camera and 28 rollo of 36-exposure Tri-X by the Pentax/Belscope
inocalletion, Normal coveraye continued until 27 Kay at which time the pulse
camera became inoperative owing. toe burned-out drive motor, The camera was
removed and forwarded. to Headquarters for necessary repairs and @ Pentox with
8 180'mm telephoto lens was rigacd as a temporary aubstitute for coverage of
the Consilate entrance. On 16 June a reconditioned pulse camera was received
and {mediately placed in service. Unfortunately, thts unit failed on 27 June
and was removed. “A faulty shutter motor vas to blame, This comera was aloo
forwarded to Headquartérs for repair and the Pentax/180 mm rig was again set
up. .this rig is being operated by LIONION-2,

2. Morale of both agents continues high, expecially in view of. the
excellent service Headquartecn performed in "{souing" new PBRUMEN passports.
for these agents, Both were antounded to see their own signatures expertly
forged in the new documenta, Headquarters help in thie documentation
problem 1s greatly appreciated, : : ;

3. It will be recalled that in the last progress report the Station
Tequested Headquarters and Stetion JMWAVE views on forwarding LIONION photos
to SHAVE, Thie request was promptly answerad by MH 13645 and photos have

~ Continued~

Distribution:

eS copy. ' Bo “22/2,

GROW aEIRaENCE TO BIsPAicH SemsCt AND NOME onie
RMMA 26576; | . 8 July 1965,
Ginssincation > “| Was Fie amet

50-6-122/3

"SECRET


STAND NOON

CONTINUATION. OF iffa
PATCH i

WHOA 26576

accordingly beon sent to JMVAVE which, dy having AMMIG"L screen them, hea
alveady made one Lwporcant:- 0GI identification.

5 4. During the period under review a dispatch covering deratis of the
LIONION pulse canara operation (HMMA Zoaia, 22 June) was forwarded to KURIOT.

in 3. With. reinforcements for the Station's PBRUMEN Section due to
arrive shortly, it 1s expected that more operattonal exploitation of the
excellent LIONION production will result in short order.

TPRCE Ne

BB"$3q usc eneviouscomon | SECRET ju seearanities i TKO



: woe Gos Gao i
eeaasiry to FHUE wa. .

251104423

.{ REQUEST BEF PHOTOS SHOWN AMMuG- 1 WHO LDENTIS IED

ad SGT G wuvesn 12 GF 2 Ay 85 AS NC@2PERTO <HERNANDEZS CuRSELO,
AXA NOEL 2UCARELI, AKA NOEL. HEAD OF GuAT DESK iN

ES (DICATA OME LUIS NOPSERTO (HERNANDEZ) CURBELO

wMead Guat DESz, MATL LISERATION DEST DEL aNd FORMER
41 ON VATCHL (ST OF VAIL INTERCEST

Bag fu

EP,
PESTS INDICATE SUSI ARRIVED MSZL S MAY
SS AND RETURNED HAYA 9 747 65 PPNO, D 65/229,

J AND MAS KNOW HIM SINCE 57 ae

ft ACTIVITIES, A-i HAS MET SieG'S ¥

HAS VISITED THEIR HOME. A-2 BTates

KE OG f aND ONE

UPON JOIN

PEF SOH! nz h

_ SEE



FeO Y TD PAGE
NUA-1 AND SUSU, OFORNER FEELS SUBJ

MEETING Ev

ENT HE EXITS PS2UMEN“ AGAIN

T EXCHANGE v S WITH A-1,

CUPIES OF SUBJ PHOTO SEING FORVARDED MEXI AND. HOS,
7. SEQUEST MEXE NOTIFY “AVE EvENT SuSs SE-ENTE@S “EKI as

SED SEND a- a EXFECT PARA 5S NESTING,
6.  iNDEX,

w
oy
fo)
2
m
4

GN

1 12 § €5 NORIERTO HERNANDEZ CURBELO DGI
= NOEL SUCAR ELL AXA NOEL LN OGL LUIS NORSERTO HERNANDEZ CURBELO

2537 HNMA 26160 ANMET

N22 €5/228 A-1 57 26



CLASSINICATION

DISPATCH.

SECRET J mareeo.jor mtn
|~ enter of Station, Mexico city Te alt
wa : ont QUAUTIFD Cr

_[ lees
: i
Chief, 3H Division | micrornn
Sage H at

“_PBRUMEN/Confusion of Cryptonyms

‘ACIROe BEGUINED « BEFERENCES

REF:  HMMA-23712, 17 June 1964

1, In line with the Staticd's request in reference ‘to
assign new cryptonyms to certain operational activity directed
against the PELUMEN installation so that the confusion in the
use of other cryptonyms can be avoided, Headquarters has ’
taken the following action: :

a, LIONION - This cryptonym has been assigned to the

_ photo-basehouse and photo coverage of the PBRUMEN official

installation. Since the Station indicated in paragraph 3 a

of reference that a separate project will be prepared to cover

LIFEUD 22 and LIFEUD 23 and this photographic coverage,.2

project file. number was requested for LIONION in four parts.

The Station-will be notified of this new number in the normal

channela. aif)

&, LIFEAT/LIERODE (50-6-32/8) ~ Both the cryptonym
and file number have been retained.to refer to the original
Purpose, normal LIFEAT coverage of PERUMEN installations. ~

c. LIFEAT/LIOMEN (50-6-32/7) ~ The cryptonym LIOMEN
has been assigned to the MKTRAP activity directed against the
PBRUMEN installation. The file number 50-6-32/7 has been
assigned to this phase of the LIFEAT operation,

(continued)

Distribution:
0&1 ~ COS, Mexico. City

fu

fase
CHOSE REFTRENCE TO a rt one TS
HBMW~12725 8 July 1964
CAASSTIEATION Was The ae
SECRET 50-6-32/6

fourrne _lrerrrar

“onnice

= ‘orn
WH/L/C, Busté

GFICE StmBOL

OBIGINATING.

SY" 53. use enrvious common

rrrecracrs

Date
|

ofan |

DISPATCH



AL athe

32735

Tixeermcarion
CONTINUATION OF
SBCRET

DISPATCH

i

2. Beadquarters acknowledges that the TPSLIDE cryptonym
which eas used throughcut WSIN-12454 has indeed been cancelled
and that the use of this cryptonya was in error.

\ 3. The Stotion's bains tu provide such # detalled account
lof the administration of the LIFEAT basehouses will .add :
greatly to Headquarters understanding of this project, and

your cooperation is sinplifying the use of the cryptonyma

w in the LIFEAT--PBRUMEN operations is greatly appreciated by

KeRioT and WH Division.

Chester D.. DAINOLD

monosromes | SECRET | (seers
H

