# 104-10234-10029

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10234-10029

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TiTY

wil? :

WE/S

89% 8

6393

LATE: 7 MARCH 1966

TO & MADRID

PROMA: DIRECTOR

....-=

BEGINE FORK

TOTAL S022 24

NS SECRET

D iNDEX

D 4O INORK

O PILE IN CS PILE NO.

..*1:10

Dire

5 FI

TAR-

Titti

25 C182

то

PRIORITY MADR

INFO

CITE DIR

DESENGIZED

85730

REP

LAOR 7382 (IN 69459

Dix

8227

FIR, POLL IS KENO HOS SENT TO STATE DEPT ON 7 MARCH:

"WITH REFERENCE TO THE HABANA PRENSA LATINA NEWS RELEASE

OF & MARCH 1986, ALLEGING CIA INVOLVEMENT WITH ROLANDO CUBELA

•SECADES AND RAMON TOMAS GUIN DIAZ IN COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

THE FOLLOWING OUTLINES THE AGENCY'S CONTACT WITH THESE THO PERSONS.

- "GUIN WAS RECRUITED BY A CIA AGENT IN AUGUST 1963 INSIDE

CUBA AS A PRIXCIPAL AGENT TO RECUIT HIGH LEVEL WILITARY LEADERS.

EE HAS HAD NO CONTACT WITH CIA STAFF PERSONNEL.

"CUBELA, THE MORE IMPORTANT OF THE TEO HEN, HAS BEEN IN

CONTACT BITE THIS AGENCY DURING THE PERIOD 1961-1965. THE LAST

AGENCY CONTACT MITH CUBELA NAS IN FEBRUARY 1965. HE HAS HAD DIRECT

CONTACT WITH SEVERAL AGENCY OFFICIALS AND, IN ADDITION, IS KNOWN

TO HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT WITH CUBAN EXILES, INCLUDING MANUEL ARTINE.

CIA'& CONTACT AND RELATIONSHIP WITH BOTH CUBELA AND GUIN WAS FOR

THE EXPRESS PURPOSE OF USING THEM TO COLLECT INTELLIGENCE ON

XILITARY ACTIVITIES AND OBJBCTIVES IN CUBA. THE AGENCY WAS NOT

INVOLVED WITH BITHER OF THESE THO KEN IN A PLOT TO ASSASSINATE

FIDEL, CASTRO, AS CLAIMED IN TO PRENSA LATINA NEWS RELEASE,

NOR

6

кликани отріскі

SECRET

Ambash -1

EPROQUCTION BY DINER

THE ISSUING

ICE IS PROMIBITED.

000р 850

---

## Page 2

4-00000

MESSAGE TOR!!

TOTAL GUDIES:

SECRET

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXxxX

ROUTING

ORIG :

ехт :

DATE:

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFI

O NO INDEX.

O FILE IN CS FILE NO.

?

3

PAGE 2

DEOs VA, PILE DO RID COPY

INFO

•. DID IT EVER ENCOURAGE EITHER OF THESE THO PERSONS TO ATTEMPT

SUCH AN ACT.

"HR. JAHES NOIL, MENTIONED IN THE PRESS RELEASE, IS A

CIA OFFICIAL STATIONED IN THE U.S. EMBASSY IN MADRID, SPAIN, AND

.::HAS IN CONTACT WITH BOTE ODON ALVAREZ DE LA CAMPA AND JOSE LUIS

. CONZALEZ GALLARRETTA, AS NOTED IN THE PRESS RELEASE. TRE PURPOSE

*.OF THIS CONTACT WAS LIMITED SPECIFICALLY TO OBTAINING INTELLIGENCE

BIFORMATION. THERE IS NO TRUTH TO THE ALLEGATION THAT CIA GAVE

$100,000 OR ANY OTHER SIZABLE SUM OF HONEY TO EITHER OF THESE

INDIVIDUALS.

Wit:

"THE AGENCY HAS ALSO HAD LIMITED DIRECT AND INDIRECT

CONTACT WITH JORGE ROBRENO, ALBERTO BLANCO RAMIREZ AND CARLOS

TRPEDINO, NOTED IN TRE PRESS RELEASE.

AGAIN, THESE CONTACTS WERE

ARSTRICTED TO OBTAINING INTELLIGENCE. "

END OF MESSAGE

A/DD/P

'савью отресся

c/wt-5J.Chirndo

w/e E. Willowson by phone

NO OFFICERI

S&CRET

OTMER THAN THE ISSUINE O

FACE IS

Whin

---

