# 104-10510-10119

## Page 1

14:00000

104-10510-10119

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AU NOt 33, 1065

diño iriol to Dallanionto

F1old Reprodontativo

Cuban Softizoo Contor

EO0 ELocajno Joulovara

6.

19 taho ITta Placo, ipt.

Diao to tallerfontos

iro to to contira cy convorcaison vich da, storom do dunlico

rogrung tho usuro cuntionud ardividual.

¿no Rendrori I hivo boon vorilia 200 tho mit caciocco munict it ti

como de tho cicabiod peoplo fircia tho lay da Fiio inveica i attaig

Ing to vacutionally rohibilitato tron 1ai0 eaglogicnt.

Sio abovo capuioned liviniqual vas zut in trainlio to ico melie

aid aubrejuontly war jut in a coucuo at tiracoy lopini jucatio.

Cuntor to liars dudle cartire to to follovie by sociancel tactice.

His progresa hao bein alon, und for the dus joar, no lure duor cutcli

monthly roporto ira. Lindooy losina contino that toy sureá to dros

"in socalso io sia only operating at about 25ú or thu siro or tid tuüt

di tro class. In loitero to inuaey lonur deucation Curtor to iüVo

used tini to clva him every chunco dua to is abilcine continica.

Finally, cçor a you, thoy havo otatod tire to ilalã ine courio c:

rictrical dusting would talio unill 1559 c: a 25 rato de couscion

aid that tili do not lils to puoplo lio aiu muting to Joc sto ins

courzo.

Also, fios tilo Counsolor'o staruinint, tilo anna cut ivia

12 ho dia couploto tho courso, ho vould noo do aulo to curgoto in cumou

titivo splogmont duo to hio clomono plus

aaving lilo ontlongy undor vory good control.68. domeados )1s furtia

join: rofurrad by Da, intonio lacco and ruscia to tho ma-Coavulsiro

Clinic co the loalin Dopartment los Collonna and codicai caro to oca'ol

bio aptlopay 18 thio l0 pooolblo.

zipo

---

## Page 2

14.00000

6

d45000 52, 1'965

cano of cupporto hitachod jind cortain cortinoni accostion to cucco

titian sino du otitud abovo. I9 1t 10 20s::191o urice guso suleo ad

roculanon, lû would cortainlg coos creablo, In tila bacacc, to fut

do porninduaon ino soloo of tho Cubur Mouçoo Contor until cuch tri

is thiu reorra vas ondod or until 1t could bo provon timt do coido dict

no way do cologonto

do you escundly knod, no aro vorine cero vith doo 25 Cabi rifueues.

In our sloisan of rcinbilitation.

T0 5g 0050rV, 1110 10 t.0 1163t

t1no one ises too bus of Pleo that las boda roiueros to your azurey fros

I voulú appriolato a call at aR 7-2531 or a lottor to lut us diow vica

you havo ando a duoluton.

sincoroly jouro,

Cordon Do fülth, Counsolor

Voaationes racab121tation

GDS 10ab

Y

---

