# 104-10177-10148

## Page 1

104-10177-10148

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FRiN

INCIDENT

REPORT

ADMINISTRATIVE

INTERNAL USE ON'Y

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

DATEL MaY 1973

TivE 1705 hours

NAME Don G. Duncan

_ GRADE N/A

_ OFFiCE N/A

INCIDENTRequest for Information TiMe 1705 hours PLACE 4111 Hermosa St.

Toledo,

Ohio

419-536-7159

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:

The

Agency

Operator transferred

a call from Subject who re-

quested to speak with

the Chief

Agent.

Subiect allered to be

publisher of

the United Labor News,

(circulation 5,000), Toledo,

Ohio, and

wanted information.on

the disposition of one 01ga

Morgan, a

captive of the

Bay of Pigs invasion who has been in-

carcerated in

one

of Castro

s jails.

Initially, Subject stated

*thät Morgan

has been imprisoned for six to seven years, later

changing

this, upon questioning,

to fifteen years. Subject then

seemed uncertain as to when the

invasion occurred.

Subject is

calling for Norgan's mother, Mrs. FNU Morgan,

Avenue,

Toledo,

Ohio.

1909 Collingwood

i..)

Subject appeared

to create an impression that

he is a real

go-getter who expects a prompt reply to his query.

noted that he would be calling

Subject

Jack Anderson, syndicated columnist

following his

tatk with the

Agency.

Subject was highly sarcastic initially but became less strident

as the conversation developed.

Subject stated that he

expected

his call

to be

returned.

he

was advised, however,

that a report

of his call would

be prepared and passed

to appropriate Agency

officials.

ACTION TAKEN:

03

DISTRiBUTION:

ORIG: DD 'SIC (PTOS)

COPY. C-PHY SD

COPY: C.PSD

FILE. BSB PHYS SD

COPY

1793

Paul de Buttes

CHIEF, BUILDINE SECURITY BRANCH

ADMINISTRATIVE

INTERNAL USE ONLY

VIBR

---

