# 104-10110-10368

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10110-10368

...

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

(When Filled In2)

SPECIAL PROJECT SECRECY AGREEMENT

I acknowledge that I have been indoctrinated in the Project identified below and thus

have received highly classified information relating to United States

intelligence collection

activities. I am aware that the unauthorized disclosure or negligent handling of such in.

formation could seriously. affect the national defense and that the transmission or revelation

of such information to unauthorized persons could subject me to prosecution under the Es-

pionage Laws (Title 18, USCA, Sections 793 and 794).

I have been informed that approval for access to Project information may only be granted

by Project Headquarters. I have also been informed that extraordinary, security measures

and controls have been established to protect Project information and that access to such

information is restricted to those who "must know" based upon their present position or func-

tional use.

• I agreè to advise appropriate authorities of any change in my position or func-

tion and will execute a Termination Secrecy Agreement upon notification that such is re-

quired.

.=.is

I realize that a briefing of this scope and depth, which identifies sponsorship, reveals

codewords, and admits to the ultimate intelligence application of the Project, is given only

to those individuals who have been specifically approved for the. Project identified below at

the highest level and that this type information may not be divulged to individuals with lesser

levels of access.

I am aware that travel to certain hazardous or denied areas of the world such as the

USSR, Communist China, and Sino-Soviet satellite areas may constitute an unacceptable se-

curity risk and I agree, until formally relieved of this requirement, to request authorization

from Project Headquarters prior to undertaking such travel.

Having reviewed the above security requirements, I pledge that I will never publish or

reveal, by any means, classified project information to unauthorized persons. Along with

this pledge I recognize and accept the fact that l have a personal and individual responsi-

bility for the protection of all such information in my possession no matter where generated

nor how acquired and agree to abide by the security requirements and regulations estab-

lished for the Project.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

E-2, 1

•DET CL BY: 007622

6095. 2447. 499 ouTrous 1.

SECRET

(12)

---

## Page 2

4-00000

3'1/280

...

•..

SECRET

• (Треть filed 8т)

I understand that no change in my employment status or relationship with the United

States Government will relieve me of my obligation under this Agreement.

I have been advised of the procedures to follow in order to determine the identity of

individuals who have been approved for access to this Project, the current estimate of hazard

involved in travel to a foreign area or to resolve any other question which may arise under

this Agreement.

01

PROJECTS®

LAZORIAN

т.о.I

AME OF WITNESS (TyPe rI

int)

PAuL H. To ?0

SIGNATURE O

PHASE -

SOCIAL SECURITY# 566-22.5896

DATE OF BIRTH Smal dillotiona

PLACE OF BIRTH

COot 15, 1974

«The signator should

place

NAME (Type or Print)

lauder Barkies Capelant

SIGNATURE

Plaude p leasehor

¡AME & ADDRESS OF AFFILJATIOI

Global Starin In.

Thes Angels ballf

10-30-1973

each Project name.

SECRET

---

