[104-10100.10432) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NEAR BAST - AFRICA BRIEF
(HOF0RH Ih SiAwTD, AMAINING INFO!

1. CYPRUS: A CEASKYIRE APPARBETLY M3 EFFECTIVE 27 DBC. BOTH
@WHER AND TOREISH CYPRICT LEADERS AGREED TO A BRITISH PROPOSAL THAT
Wid. FUT US, GREEK, AND TURGIAH FOSCES G8 CYPRUS GMBEA BAITIAR Commie,
THE GRITIAN AGREED TO SUPERVISE THE CEASE PIME AND ESTARLISU A NBU/RAL
20un ESTWERN THR Two CommNrrmes. WS Comumens OP GREEK TuRxIEt
AND BRITISS MILITARY GARRISONS MET YITH BATTISN DIPLOMATIC LHADERS IN
PEEPARATION YOR IMPLEMENTING SUPERVISION OF CEASE FIRE. ATHENS ARN
ANWARA HAD AGREED To THIS FLAN EARLIER. BSETTERESAS AND DISTRUST
SEVWREN TURKISH AND GEEEX CTPRIGTS Wild. ADD TO PRORLEM OF KXEPIEG
PEACE, ‘THERE 16 DOUBT POLITICAL LEADERS OF RITHER COMMUNITY CAN EXERT
SPPECTIVS CONTAUL Oven RATHBNIGT SLANERTS, BESIDES PROVIDING FORCE
YO POLICE CEASEFIRE WBF SRITISN PLAN WILL SERVE TO PREVENT CLASHES
SONAR CALE AND TNT SENT bt ithe eer il UNILATERAL

Warkesine arersga as t88
oreicee
BREPRODETTN Be i 3 UF ‘Bie, oe

#57



DIRECTOR
CONE

me

1UNBIBE

2. TURKKY. pRest winierse Teor mae FOND Hew eIORITY COME

weer Tair wy PROVIDE EROUTTERE AROYER TO TOREEY'S BOLITICAL CRISIS.
CABINET SAWRD 25 DEC 18 BASED ON ZIG O8N REPUBLICAN PEODLE'E
PANTY AMD THCLEDES SEVERAL YMDEPENErTS. reowg PROGABLY SELIEvES
ENOUGH MEMBERS OF OTHER PARTIES WILL DEFECT 80 WERE BE CAN WIN VOTE
cw ASIRO.AL,
WITHDEAUAL OF Two OF THESE PARTIES VRom IMGHC’S sUEVIONS COALITION
CeSRUD Ere CAL ATS! EARLY THTS SCTE. AUmmerom musty txanegs wEsecTED
BIS TRI FOR RSCOSSTRUCTING THE COALITIO“, BOTH PARTIES AR BESET BY A \
A DISEEMBIOR, AMD BAY GIVE INONO VOTES BE NEEDS FOR SHORT TIRE.
FACTORS FAVORING IWONU'S SHAKY COVEREWENT ARE SUPPORT OF COUNTRY’S
ASY LEADERS, NEED FOR UNITY ON CYPRUS I1SSUR, AND ABSENCE PRACTICAL

MIMIQTEP SALAZAN REPORTED: PLANS 83607
“at

RSET TL



[Baaeide woes

gigs

INTE.DS SAPLOIT ENTHUSIASM GENERATED IB

epee J

ve ye iestey

ANGOLA LAST SEOTEYWHRE DORING SRESIDEST 1HOMAZ"

VISIT, WHICH WAS OF-
iN UYSRON AS INDICATION OF THE ANGOLARS BASIC
TO PORTOG!.L

eTCRaLb SERICTED

LOVALTY

SALAZAR NAS NOT LEPT THE TIBERIAN PENINSULA
SINCE RE ASSUMED -¢5'CR IN 1932, aR
RABLY GREEK XATIORAL KLECTIONS APPEAR PROBABLE
POLLOSING SUBMISSION PREMIER PAPANDREOU'S RESIGNATION 24 DEC.
PSRARTRG'S

4 GREECE.

iniv® FOLLOWED PARLIAMMITARY VOTE OF CONFIDENCE. SHiCH
BIS Coste Gu108 WARTY wou 107 fo 190 OMY BacAteS Sa Derorixa oF tint
COMRGHIST-DOMINATED UNITED DEMOCRATIC LAYT (EDA) SUPPORTED IT.

PAMNDREOU GAD REPEATEDLY STATED EE WOULD BOT ACCEPT A MAJORITY TIED

KI8O PAUL THEN ASEED PANAGIOTIS EANELLOPOULOS, LEADER OF THE MAJOR
OPSOSTTIOW IW PARLIAMENT, THE NATIONAL RADICAL UNION (3RR), TO EXAMINE.
‘ram Pomare ULrrsss OF FORNIKG GOVERMENT. KANRitOromos RipORTEDLY

Yeroawes TF#KING OF 27 DEC THAT HE HAD BREN UNABLE TO FORM WORKABLE

COALITIO! COVERSUEST 7
VOTE OF CONF IDSACE REVEALED ERE BEMAINS CQRESIVE FORCE DEYPITE

ITS BMEYPECTTS © YS Soe SSSrr sor ASS

Serasiag fritriw i

“Toe pais,

aacivariGn OF
AUTHENTICATING
Stik

a
=
4
'

i)
pene = hoo
REP RUT oe Bt Tree

Lory Ne.



“PRs FOUR-
PARTY thaOSitsd ie Si FORMER PRESIER RARSHARLIB,

S80ULD SITUATION GMIENE O8 CYYRNS COmPLNNE BEYERRORATS, on

ee

FeUe BAT 258 Ron—omen as ie FOR ORRRAT OF BAT IORLL GOTT
crept weed .
Toe Se pemation oF GE cuistD. Gayets tase KIn0

“Voe> vecuniy FOLLOW pAranmeno's ADVICE AnD QQUEROLNE SARLLAMEVT Ut

PORPARATION YoR KEW ELECTION. WORE

