# 104-10178-10117

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10178-10117

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO

SENT JR WILL CHICK CLAS

NELASIFID

TON TX AYO BOTTOM

COSFIDENTIAL

IL SECRET

OFFICIAL ROLTING SLIP

NAME AND AODRESS

DATE

INITIALS

10-95853

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

file

LINFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGMATURE

Remarkas

Passed by seeive

shore to FBI

Dity Officer by Spo

at 1830 m 2Z Apn168

at request of 2.060

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. AODRESS AND PHONE NO

DATE

101-01a 237

ONCLASSIFIED

se previous aditions

CONFIDENTIAL

SECHET

(80)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

•ADLESECRETARI

DISSIMINATION

OVANCE COM

S

TOTO: COMIS 3/

(Whanf iled In)

REPHODUCTION DE TNIS CONY FROM-BITIO

CLASSITY PO PILE NO-

X-AKA TO PILE MO._

DIBBEM BY

10

PRONIDENCE

Вляжно

orarnor Daro.

ADIE, DOR, C5.D0,

c/C))

РАсу- си150

SE CR E I 222L44Z APR 68 CITE

PANAMA CITY 6158

22 A 6ô L S5 353

INMEDIATE SAN JOSE INFO PRIORITY DIRECTOR

LOCAL PANAMAÑIAN AUTHORITIES HAVE DETAINED TWO AMERICANS WHO

TRAVELLED FROM SAN JOSE 1O PANAMA CITY VIA PANAMERICAN. HDAWAT

ACCORDING TO PANAMANIAN AUTHORITIES THEY WERE TIPPEU OFF BY COSTA

SICAN AUTHORITIES THAT IHE TWO AMERICANS VERE INOLVEL IN THE ASSASSI-

VATION OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING. PAVANANIAN AUPHDRITIES DO NOS XNOW

BASIS FOR COSTA RICAN SUSPICIONS, AND LATTER LAVE SOT ANSUSRED QUERIES!

CAN YOU INGUIRE FROM YOUR LIAISON CONTACIS AS REASON WHY COSTA RICÄNS

SUSPECT THESE TWO INDIVIDUALS? ANSWER BY INMEDIATE PRECEDENCE CABLE.

2. AMERICANS ARE MR TOM WOLMAN: DPOS; 17 JULY 1944, NEW YORK.

PASSPORI J085474 ISSUED 29 JANUARY 1968. HOME ADDRESS: 30 LARRY'S

LANE, PLEASANTVILLE, NEW YORK, SPASSPORT PICTUR SHOWS NO RESENALANCE

TO KING ASSASSIN.I

DOUGLAS HARRY HULBARD, PASSPORT NO. 330926. ACCORDING 1O

PAÑATANIAN LIAPSON WOLMAN IS JUST A KID AND KULBAÑO IS A FORNER SOLDIER

STATIONED IN PAINAÑA WHO WAS RETURNING TO PANAÑA TO MARRY A GIRL HE

NET HERE. THE PAIR WERE TRAVELING IN A CHEVROLET LICENSE PLATE 23GH195

MOTOR NO. 13-387-13-113711. NEITHER THE YEAR OF THE AUTO NOR THE STATE

OF ISSUANCE OF THE LIGENSE PLATE WERE NOTED IN THE [LIAISON REPORI.

RECORD COPY

16-15 BanJose

#ROo: 4810-95902

S3053

201-0832132

'RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

GIBR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CAPLESPERE

CLA$SIR.NO N'ESSAGE

TOR GATES

530-37

(When filed h

RIPROOUCTOI V THIS COM ARTISTI

AOTANCICOTY

iBBURO

BLOTPEO

10

AT:

CLADDITY TO PLE NO.

я-акА то пх на.

018910

осото Oaa:

INPOX

no com

va

PAGE TWO PANAMA CITY GISO SECRET

ACCORDING TO WOLMAN'S PASSPORI HE ENTEREO AND DEPARTED EL SALVADOR

AND MONDURAS ON 17 APRIL, NICARAGUA 15 APRIL AND PASO DE GANDA PANAMA.

10 APRIL. NO EVIDENCE FROM PASSPORI TRIT WOLMAN TRANSITTED

COSTA RICA.

SECRET

BT

TN25

FOR FRING

Ri,- 05323z

2307

---

