# 104-10229-10413

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10229-10413

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLICE HILlIKISION

CAS511 ATION

SECRET

WH/C

PROCESSING

ACTION

MAPSIO FOR IMINITO

NO INLIXITE RAQUIATO

ONLY QUALITIED

CAT NUDGA IMDURINO

MOSTARCE

ACCOM

FLISHED

Chief of Station

SE AMPIC/OPOTITIOnE UNWAVEP42

• AMBUD Medical Program

ACTION REQUIHED . REFERENGES

References:

A. UFGA-25901, Para 1. (11 Sept 1966)

B. UFGA-25201,

Pirn 11 (3 June I9G6)

C. UFGA-23072 (11 Sept 1965)

UTGA-21058 (27 April 1965)

E. UFGA-19189 (28 Deccmber 1964)

F. UFGS-5352 (29 October 1964)

G.. UFGA-18091 (13 October 1961)

H. UFGS-5186 (21 September 1964)

I. UFGA-17171 (17 August 1961)

Action Required: As stated in paragraph 3.

As reported in Reference A, paragraph 1, the medical/vocational

rehabilitation progion has reduced the number of

individuals recciving

monthly medical dependency payments to six

/ this numiser, a

One 08

MARTINEL Canejo,

is funded by Garcia Lines.

The background of

cases and previous correspondence with lleadquarters regarding resolution

of the problem is contined in Referonces B through I.

Being forwarded

Under Scparato Cover. ai0 Attachments A, B and F, the case histories for

o HERNANDEZ, PEREZ,0 and (MARTINEZ.)6 Of special interest is Reference

which forwarded ease histories on (MOLINA, ÓRTEGAS and POZO for analysis

'Medical reports originated subsequent

to the submission of the Reference C report and are being forwarded

Under Separnto Cover ns Attachments C, D and E.

The current status of each of the remaining cases is summarized

as follows:,

a. (HERNANDEZ Hernandez, Raul) (201(290105))

7S.21-(344518selzuros which the Clinic is attempting to control by

6a 20010)e medication. (Attachment A.) (U/s/C)

6. 161-472 740)8

(attachments U/s/C

A through F

as described

Distribution

fris 1900

dontinued.

JH/C wA cy each - TeTAL-fays

Att. U/S/C

(plus 1 cy Dispatch

" CROSS REFERENCE TO

for each 201 file

w/perflnent Axt.U/S/C)

LATTE

SECRET

19.124. 25/5

DATE WIFED

DATE DISFATCIIED

28 Sept 66 OCT 6 1868

DISPATCH SUMCIA ANO NUMBER

UFGA-26075

MEADQUANTIAS FILE NUMBER

19-124-25/5-3

• Plus each 201 file

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATIÓN OF

DISPATCH

1601.26079

6

Risrber do) (201 7291702)

Recordene elpaddon treatment; most cocently tos a

klames indeellen.

AMbUDa states that it to Incredible

chael sided contineer in

1n a report prepared by Di. Vargas in day 1900.

(Altaclumend 13) (U/S/C)

c. FOLINA QuIntaIl, Jesus) (201(201131)

MENTAL

Receiving outpaldent care at Jackson demorial Hospital

Department of bajillatry.

the Hospital recommends that Subject continue undoi

psychintile outpablond care lot at least mothor

year'. (Attachment C) (U/S/C)

d. ORTEGA Hernandez, Radael) (201-2091015)

MENTAL

Continuing to recolve

trentment from Di. Mora who

wroto on 1l August 1906 that Subjeet Is very 11l and

in nood. of further psychintric treatment.

(Attachment D) (U/S/C)

8

e. POZO Gives, Rolnndo) (201 (292760)

HENTAI

continuing to receive treatment from Di. Mora who

wroto on Il August 1966 that Subject has shown signs

of ronl improvemont which may result in his bocoming

selinsupporting. (Attachment E) (U/S/C)

£. MARTINEZ Canejo, Fustino) (Garcia Linos. 201 not

avullablo

BLIND (Advanced alnucomn)

Recelving outpatient eare at Jackson Menorial Hospital.

(Attachment E) (U/S/C)

It is requested that the Headquartors revlowin baction 6

described in Roferonco C for handling the cases of MOLINA?

and ozo. be oxpanded to include all the remaining enses and that

JMWAVE bebinformed of the conclustons reached conceining the

ultimato disposition of these casos.

1.

FYI.

An amount of $250, 000 was originally authorized

for tho medial phase of the AMBUD Progian.

Exponditures under

this program. have ronched a level of approximately $245,000 with

blils outstanding at the present time of $5,250. It Is ovident

that the cases rcmaining

which leguire medieal treatmont as

outlined above will

necesstate

the expenditure of sums in excess

of this amount.

1...c...

PhilIp G. ELIARD

50530

•SECRET

PAGENO

2

---

