‘Wfoa-t0312-10046) :

(2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]
CaN a o™~
iw) CU

UNITED STATES: DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Pleas:
Poe He AT i Washington, D. C. 20535

November 13, 1967
GORDON DWANE NOVEL

On November 8, 1967, Gordon Dwane Novel, a
self-described "electronic bugging expert” and a witness
in District Attorney James Garrison's probe into the
assassination of the late President John F. Kennedy,
voluntarily furnished the following information to a
Special Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation:

Novel stated that recently he has sold
manufacturing rights for his antibugging device which
he called checknate, to the Zelex Marketing Corporation,
866 United Nations Plaza, New York, New York, Through the
Zelex Corporation, Novel has received inquiries from
several foreign governments, through their embassies
in Washington, D. Ce, Be Ste bugging and a
equipment.

Novel said that he demonstrated both bugging
and antibugging equipment to the following foreign
government representatives:

Brigadier Furdoon L. B. Mehta, J. S.,
Military Attache, Embassy of India,
Washington, D. C. rereennmnenainSTaar

(FNU) Storer, Attache, British Embassy,
Washington, D.C. -e———

Perry Lasada, Personnel Security, Embassy
of Venezuela, Washington, Do C.

- Erdogan Guven, Attache, Embassy of Turkey,
Washington, De Ce

Asurin Joescef, Office of the Military
Attache, Embassy of Indonesia, Washington, De Co

| —— ee

Distribution: 28 Nov. 1967 i ae
Mr. McCord, Mr. Kane : : bs
TSD and Mr. Burk (via Mr. Yech)

(ny Ohak Wiley)

|

Ney


Cc Cc

GORDON DWANE NOVEL

M. Qadrud-Din, Second Secretary, Embassy
of Pakistan, Washington, D. C.
—— :

Major General Chiang Wu-Wei, Military
Attache, Embassy of the Republic of China,
Washington, D. C. peeaaantnnite

Novel. said that all expressed considerable
interest in. both types of equipment and said sales to
their governments would probably be forthcoming.

Nova, additionally, advised that he sold one
of his antibugging checkmate units to Charles Costello,
whom he advised is connected with the Ace Vending Machine
Corporation, Trenton, New Jersey, and that the magnetic
field loop of the device was installed in the ceiling of
Costello's private office in Trenton, New Jersey.

‘hts docurnrat contsira neither
= conclustens of

