DANA =
1,704-10304-10000) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
= z ;

a : pans’ Jaa
peed Atiy Tow
ail

8 January 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

SUBJECT : Annual Fitness Report - George Joannides
Operations Officer
cB [Gs-1

ESN 064818) Z3
0B 5 July 1922
067190743

1. This Memorandum in Lieu of Fitness Report is prepared
in accordance with HR 20-20, for the period mid-June 1978 through
12 January 1979. The occasion of the Fitness Report is the
retirement of the rating official.

2. The undersigned was detailed in mid-May to serve
as the Agency's Principal Coordinator for work with the House
Select Committee on Assassinations. As it became apparent that the volume
of the work required assignment of additional full-time personnel, the
decision was made that one experienced officer was needed to handle
the DDO account. A senior officer experienced in DDO work and available
to serve for several months was requested. Mr. Joannides was known to
the undersigned by reputation, although not personally, and arrangements
were made for his detail to the work. While there is no way to outline
the qualifications that one should have for this sort of work, it
became quickly clear that Mr. Joannides was the perfect man for it.

3. Mr. Joannides was responsible for a new procedure in
recording of exchanges with the HSCA. As it developed, the Agency's
logs and records on the status of requests by the HSCA and the Agency's E
responses ‘became the only reliable record; it was clear that the HSCA piu
often did not know the status of business in this respect and time
and time again had to come to this office for clarification. Beyond
that early contribution to the ordering of the affairs of the office,
Mr. Joannides handled day-to-day follow-ups of requirements by
telephone with the DDO focal point as well as throughout the DDO.
Further, the firm position that he took with the young investigators
in response to aggressive harassment on some occasions was exactly
what the situation called for. A person of his maturity and experience
handled the job exactly as required by the situation. If the peculiar
nature of the work did not call on Mr. Joannides.for all the talents of ana
his wide experience, it nonetheless was his experience and quick
perceptions that ensured a superior performance. His advice and

hc \in4


13-00000

counselling on courses of action to cope with unique situations
was always sound and responsible.

4. The work in this assignment provided little occasion
for Mr. Joannides to demonstrate attitudes on either EEO matters or
economy, considerations that are required by regulation for comment
in Fitness Reports. As a result, no comment is made.

5. Not because of the demands on his superior talents,
but because of the cool efficacy with which he handled an unusual
special assignment, Mr. Joannides' work is evaluated as Outstanding.

yes D Bea
S. D. Breckinridge

I certify that I have seen the comments in the Narrative section
of this memorandum. ~

cai ipee Ay
a ce

Ele



13-00000

: — aa ar. C SECRET Cc ae

(When Filled In)

ENERAL
2. DATE OF BIRTH [3. SEX

7-5 -22 uf
6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE ‘7. OFF/OLV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT |8. CURRENT STATION

Ops. Offieer DuP/S.A.S. IMWAVE

10.-CHECK {X) TYPE OF REPORT
I TEMPORARY INTIAL REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR|
CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See inatructions - Section C) ANNUAL JRE ASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE
SPECIAL (Specify): “SPECIAL (Specify):
12. REPORTING PERIOD (From- to-)

1 April 1963 - 31 March 1964
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Performance ranges from wholly inade: wate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating In this category requires.
positive remedi: al action. The nature of the action could range from counsel to further training, to Tecing on
probstion, to reassignment. or to separation, Describe action taken or proposed wn Section C.

Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterlzed neither by deficiency nor
excellence.

Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.
Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.
Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of
others doing similor work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the
erforms EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees |
ies MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (Indicate number of employees supervised.’ \-

RATING

Supervises and manages the Station's covert action ‘pranch which aAETTER

employs }staff officers; and contract. employees, ae E82.

= 2y Se Bu

SPECIFIC DUTY No.2 RATING
Serves as senior case officer for a student project. which: involves {> Speabidela
distribution of printed -propaganda, production of.radio programs};
and the development of political action programs. ts

SPECIFIC DUTY.NO. 3 RATING
Maintains liaison with the FI, CI and ‘PM branch chiefs, in order ee
to: insure that the Station's covert action effort is appropriately 7

supporting the missions _ of the other branches.
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4 RATING

Conducts production and security reviews on the Station's covert ho
action operations.: : an (27

»

RATING
LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTYNO.G ‘ : RATING
LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT Position, O° ye
v RATING

Take into account ever} about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as pere | LETTER.

formance of specific productivity, conduct on jee " ghee ie aad pertinent personal traits or habits, and

perticuler limitations — ‘on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, 7
‘J es q -

place the letter in the sponding to the statement which most accurately rofleces his fovel of performance.

£98" 45 ossovere previous epitions. SECRET g
Yone.


RET
(When Filled In) ;
SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS F
SFFICE:

Indicate significant strerfyths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keepi ry ALY, their relationship to
overall Il perfor formance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. "ive eer Or ining. Comment
‘on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section provide best
basis for determining future personnel action, Manner of performance of managerial on supervisory duties must be described, if

applicabl. a)

Subject is a hard working, dedicated and sledios ip er who has
proven by performance that he can accomplish assigned o; ional tasks
in allowable time limits. The period covered byythis fitness report
represents Subject's initial Agency exposure. to thésWafdrst echelon
management responsibilities whic’ implicit in a branch chief's
assignment in a Station that hag: employees. Subject responded
to the challenge of the first echelon supervisory responsibilities
in an exemplary manner, Subject managed a branch that had a yearly
budget of two million four hundred thousand dollars, These funds
were judiciously spent on printed propaganda, white and black radio
programs, and on..political action operations which were implemented
via labor, student:.and- professional groups. Subject has the. knack of
judiciously blending quality with quantity and in this melding effort,
Subject reflected. cost consciousness and effectiveness in the use of
personnel, space equipment and funds, Subject has a distinct flair
for political action operations and can translate poli¢y directives
into meaningful action programs by all of his assets. Subject has the
ability to delegate authority and to appropriately fix responsibility
with those officers whom he supervises. In the management..field}.
Subject's only. discernible weakness is a tendency to be abrupt. with
subordinates. It is believed that this minor shortcoming will be
overcome with the acquisition of added experience in the field of
personnel management, -On balance therefore, Subject's overall perfor-
mance as a supervisor and.as an intelligence officer warrants an ¢

BY EMPLOYEE
CERTIFY THAT | HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, AND C OF THIS'REPORT

= BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN iF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
UNDER MY SUPERVISION

22 months

DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
Andrew K. REUT!
15 May 1964 : Chief of Station, JMWAVE| (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans J)

3. BY REVIEWING OF FICIAL
COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Although I have had few chances to personally observe
work, I concur in the supervisor's comments and
rating due to my general impression ofs@Miie capabilities
and performance of duty received in occasional meetings
extending over a number of years.

OnE OFFIEIAU TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL] NE 3S SaNATURE
_1 June 1964 Deputy Chief, WH (SA) | * Bruce’ B.” Cheever
Sanaa SECRET



13-00000

oe SRT

CONTINUATION SHEET

‘Section C - Narrative Comments

Subject has additional growth potential as an intelligence
officer and as a first echelon supervisor of individuals doing
a basic intelligence task. Ethnic origins, foreign language
fluency and experience acquired to date generally dictates a
career for Subject in the general arena of Greek operations.
While the major thrust of Subject's career orientation should
be geared toward Greece and its related problems, it is believed
that it is essential. phat, on a periodic basis, Subject be directed
into non-Greek areas of interest, in order that the continued
challenge of new horizons will stimulate Subject to develop to
his full capacity. In practical terms, this means that out of
any eight-year time cycle, at least two years should be spent
by Subject on non-Greek or even non-European affairs, This
officer has the potential to be a broad-gauged officer but he
PY must be stimulated and led in that direction which will fully

harness the totality of his potential.

The rating officer would be pleased to have Subject work’
with him at any other Field Station that might be entrusted to
the rating officer.



— oe Co secret C

(When Filled In)

"FITNESS REPORT

ae : Wey Z 5. GENERAL
= (Firet) iddie) - |2. DATE OF BIRTH |S. SEX [4. GRADE_|8.

B Jur 1922] mAl@s-

‘6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

‘> _- OPS OFFIOER~ : 2 DDP/B.As& _ IMWAVE 2

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT |&. CURRENT STATION <>

9. CHECK 00. TYPE.OF APPOINTMENT S
canceR |. ~- [Reserve |_| ¥EMPORARY terran =

e * [0 CHECK (x) TYPE OF REPORT EB

REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR]

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See inetructiona - Segtion C) - ANNUAL, REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL (Specify): :~ 7 “| sPectat (Specify):

11. DATE REPORT-DUE IN OP. > 12. REPORTING PERIOD (From- to-) :

S 2 :_1 January :1963 - 31:
__~_- “PERFORMANCE EVALUATION =: ”

july 1963 ~

ee

Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category

requires

positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from.counseling, to further training, to placing on- |.

probotion, to reassignment ‘or to separation, Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory ond ts ‘characterized neither by deficiency nor

excellence.
P - Proficient Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results ore being produced in a proficient manner.
S- Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

© = Outstanding Performance Is so exceptional In relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of

others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

List upto six of the most:important specific duties performed during the rating periods Insert rating letter which best describes the
manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees

with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (Indicate-number of employees eupervieed).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. T
Deputy Chief of Branch handling (in absence of Chief) all aspects

of politicalyaction..and psychological warfare activity and
pe S case officers and clerical personnel.

RATING
LETTER

Case officer for student project involving political action,
propaganda, intelligence collection and a hemisphere-wide apparatus

RATING
LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 8

RATING
LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

RATING
CETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Tcke into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as per-

formance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on jcb, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and

particular limitations or talerfs. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period,

place the letter in the Blacd x corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of per!
CT 863,

170

£95" d5 onsovere previous eoirions.

RATING
LETTER

GJ

a

SECRET oe 7c Sey] C


13-00000
ee * + SECRET

(When Filled In)

overall pertormonce. State suggestions mode for improvement of work performance.

SECTION c fare NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to
i "Bive recommendations for training. Comment

on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best

basis for determining future personnel action, Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if

applicable,

capability directed at the maintarget.

faced by the Station and strong urge to win in our

of the PW branch.

3

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

Reference is made to paragraph C of subject's previous fitness report
dated 10 January 1963 which is still applicable. During the period
covered by this report subject has done an excellent job in the handling
of a significant student exile group which hitherto had successfully
resisted any important degree of control. Under subject's direction

an exile teachers' group reached a high level of effectiveness in the
propaganda field and was turned over to another case officer.

Subject has effectively terminated unproductive operations in the prop
field (one magazine and a news letter) and is building up Station radio
His high professional standards, complete comprehension of the problems |

opposition make it a distinct pleasure to see him take over as Chief

struggle with the

1 : BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT | HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C.OF THIS REPORT

DATE SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

JUL 3.1 e3 /s/ Walter D, NEWBY (signed in pseudo

on Fld. Transmittal)

2. > BY SUPERVISOR

UNDER MY SUPERVISION.

15 months

‘MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN iF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TYPaP gS PRINTED WHE A SENATORE
31 July 1963 Chief, PW h fen ipictipag 4 Testes

3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

work based primarily on discussions with Subject and

ed those’ qualities of management, initiativé, ‘drive

ithe Rating Officer's overall evaluation of

trong} 47

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL — The Reviewing Officer is familiar with Subject’s

igeneral observation of Subject during the past year and frequently review-|
ling his completed work. Subject is an extremely hard working, dedicated
individual with an ability to develop rapport quickly with his contacts.
Subject works long hours including weekends without complaining and is

always available when there is a job to be done. Subject has demonstra-

duty that are necessary to perform the many and varied tasks of a fast
and continually changing’ situation. The eer’ Officer-.concurs ‘with
iS:

Subject's supervisor,

and devotion to

.Deputy Chief of Station (signe

= : ; : ay at SECRET -)

YPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

(/s/ Frederick J. ING
d in pseudo on Fld. Trans.)



13-00000

>

icheceiesteteyastreslafereteiste : : SECRET
- (When Filled In).
SECTION C aaa NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicote significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to
overall performance. State suggestions mode for improvement of work performance, ive recommendations for training. Comment
on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best
basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must-be described, if
applicable.

No change from previous report submitted 19 January 1963.

SECTION D CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS.
1. BY EMPLOYEE
' CERTIFY THAT | HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, AND C OF THIS REPORT.

ATE SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE :
27 March 63 /s/ Walter D, NEWBY (signed on Ficla Transmittal)

BY SUPERVISOR
SR raan BEEN if THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

: /s/ Robert_K, TROUCHARD
27 March 63 Chief, PW Branch gned: on Field Transmittal)
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

/s/ &ndrew



13-00000

oC eens, oC

FITNESS REPORT

SECTION A

, Pe Name cz 2. DATE OF BIRTH |8.SEX 7 [4. GRADE

5 duly 1922 |Mate |Gs-al,

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

a OPS OFFICER
9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT 10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT
[FemPonany INITIAL [___[Reasstonntent surcavison

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See inetructions ~ Section C) ANNUAL l [REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE
SPECIAL (Specify): SPECIAL (Specify):
11. DATE REPORT DUE IN OP. 12. REPORTING PERIOD (From- to-)

1963 - 31 March 1963

SECTION B

W - Weok Performance ranges from wholly incdequate to slightly less than sotisfactory. A rating in this category requires
eck... positive remedial action. The hature of the: action could range fron counseling, to further training, 10 placing on
Probation, to-reassignment of to separation, Describe action taken-or-proposed In Section C. :

A~- Adequate Pe formance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor
y excellence.

P - Proficient’ Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.
S$ + Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O - Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of
others doing similar work as to'warrant special recognition.

List up to six of the most important spacific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the
manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees
with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to. supervise (indicate number of employeoe supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1 RATING
LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 8 : RATING
G ane LETTER

RATING
LETTER

RATING
LETTER

bey RATING
‘ > 7 : LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

RATING

: Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as per- | LETTER

Bi fiultan formance of specific dutles, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and
particular limitations of talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's ‘overall performance during the rating period,

place the letter in the rating box.coffesponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his tevel of performance.

z| nl SECRET


Nivihaiiadie

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CTs

=, GENERAL
lic

le) 2. DATE OF BIRTH |3. SEX 4. GRADE. |5. SD

° 5 July 1922;|.'Male% (GS-liJlgy  D

6 OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE” a * 7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT |8. CURRENT STATION

‘OPS OFFICRR 00S ON DDP/SeACSs

BV CHECK WO TYPE ‘OF APPOINTMENT ane 10. CHECK Gd) TYPE OF REPORT

CAREER | "Preserve TEMPORARY.

EAREER-PROVIBIONAL (600 Inelructfona ~ Section ©) © XT [asnuac
SPECIAL (Specliy): E : G1AL (Specify):

11, DATE REPORT DUE'IN ©. ~ os EB a ‘i RIOD (From to-)”

962

: cet vol: January: 1962 = 31 December
SECTION B : FERFORUNEE EVALTATION Zi *

W- Weak Performance renges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires

positive remedial action. “The ature of the action could range from. counseling, to further training, to pl

probation, to reassignment of fd separation, Describe action taken or proposed In’ Section C.

icing on

A- Adequote Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and 1. characterized neither by deficiency nor

excellence.
P= Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner,
S + Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O - Outstanding Performance is s0 exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of

others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.
“=. “SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. - Insert rating letter which best describes the
manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees

with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

Deputy Chief of Branch handling (in absence of Chief) all aspects
political action and psychological warfare and supervising
case officers and clerical personnel, eu

RATING
LETTER

"
O14

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

Case Officer for student project involving political action,
propaganda, intelligence collection and hemisphere-wide
apparatus.

RATING
LETTER

a7*

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.
Case Officer for teacher's organization engaged in hemisphere-
wide ‘Press and radio propaganda.

ig
yy

SPECIFIC DUTY.NO. 4
Case. Officer on. project producing news - letter aimed: at press
outlets . vin Latin America.

RATING

vypeerr,

Blog

SPECIFIC DUTY.NO. 8
Maintains contacts “with key elements of a -veteran' s = type. 7
organization as.a Hse erases project. 7

RATING
LETTER

at
on,

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN-CURRENT POSITION

RATING
LETTER

Take inte account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as per-
formance of specific duti Productivity, conduct on fi be cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and
imitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period,

RATING

CETTER

jetter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

E82" 45 opsovere previous Epitions. SECRET


13-00000

acai 2 i - SECRET
(When Filled In)

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to

overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. ‘Comment

on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best

basis for determining future personnel action.. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if

sepllcctlesupject's strengthS.jie in his ability to analyze a problem quickly
and skillfully, to strip it of unnecessary detail and to render a
decision without waste of motion. He has contributed greatly to the
efficiency of the Branch by eliminating unproductive ventures, counseling
the members and promoting the principles of correct tradecraft. He has
been successful in resolving complicated problems involving control of
an unruly..group.. He has a strong.personality and firm convictions about
the. proper manner of..carrying..on.cavert operations. and. voices his
convictions without fear, He is an excellent supérvisor and is respected
by the members of the branch for his forthrightness and his sober
judgment..and. sound advice, His handling of agents and contacts on the
outside. both directly and indirectly.mixes .to a.proper extent firmness
and friendliness. In short he is a distinct asset to the clandestine
services both administratively and operationally. .

“CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

CERTIFY THAT | HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE.

19 JAN 63 /s/ Walter D,. NEWBY (signed on Field Transmittal)

BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN IAS Ni
eT nUReTINOn If THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATIQN

10 months

[OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR whi Pea NAME AND SIGNATURE

bert K, TROUCHARD
Chief/PW - JMWAVE (signed:on Field Transmittal)
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL : 7 :

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL Subject is an unusually competent officer in the
field of covert action operations in that‘he blends a flair for this ~:
activity with sound tradecraft principles and a firm adherence to valid
reporting techniques. Subject is dedicated and hard working and he has.
proven by performance that he is willing to work long hours in order to
accomplish his operational objectives. Subject's overall performance
warrants an evaluation of “prtron "99 Subject has growth potential. both as
an intelligence officer and as a first. echelon supervisor of individuals
doing a basic intelligence task. Subject's activities come to the

;jattention of the reviewing officer on a weekly basis. ~

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL [TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

/a/ Andrew K.
Chief of Station, JMWAVE (signed on Fiala Ti ittal)

ay . E >) "SECRET iB )

