‘404-40473-10085| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Federal Burean of Davestigation
Attentions Hr. 8. J. Papich

t
FROMs Deputy Director, Plans ~
SUBIECT: Marvin: KUTTOR

=. : ‘
. aca of a
: 1
MIGHOFILMES |
i auth 4 1962
: OCC. MICRO, SER.
» : OC. MIC
i
i TH Director

1, Reference io made to thiy office'a C5CI93/766, 642, dated 9 August 1961,
concerning the above Subject.
2. We have recently learned that KANTOR hea returned to Copertigen j. Dermat

a base tea li tase haves lacout 198}, whe ig aevssaly “Livan ta Tenuaek utacek
8 reeldance perm Se We hava been advised by a usually ralisble source that
SPSIRSOTH hap mainteined a clandestine contact with a Cuben official in Copens

A eee a Lent airice tae pro-CASiNO articles to the local Manish press. We
have alee beon efvined that KANTOR resently obtained a shook far $1000, ostensibly

i from hia father, to pay for his fare baok te the United States.

3 “Yo wi22. formurd to you any additional infornation wo may reestve in this’

* matter. It is svageeted, in the meantime, that it may be in order to ascertainy
~ 4£ possible, whether KAITOR'n father has in fast recently acquired the above-
mentioned gum and forwarded it to tha Subject. :

kh. Our files contain no traces identifiable with STRINSITH,

ws
‘onsed ont Gorssser a :

i caeteltaay S hug 61 i
A : i
we/1/cE/H nistspe :: c: :

!
‘eae “LT August 1762
|
: Distributdont
! 2 = Federal Bureau cf Investigation =
a : args
aaa 2et-A'T 7 Flo

: 2 = we
. 1 = RE (201279710)
NOPORN/CONTINCED CONTROL

i 3 tar
