104-10215-10202, - - | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

1. Where did Cubela get the %500 he gave Tepedino to be banked in
Paris or elsewhere against a rainy day? He is always getting money

from Tepedino, not giving it to him.

2. DRE reported info that Cubela worxing in Fajardo Hospital (Dec 62)

j
f

at $400-500 a month, probably. No private practice.because he spends

® great deal of money, fellow employees suspect concealed source of

income, What is it?

3. What was Cubela doing between Jan 62 and June 62? That was the

Period when Nuiry was at that school. Was he really at that school? i

He was mentioned as controlling students at University of Havana in

62, and supposedly called in with Nuiry et tobe talked to in March. | :
Early April 62 sent to meetings to ofificize militia (Camaguani), i
also reportedly disaffected in May 62 and contact of Eloy Gutierrez '

Menoyo.

4. Have we asked Gubela whether he knows Sonia Calero Sansana was . :
or is a member of G-2 in Havana? Her brother Oscar is known G-2.© '

She attended Marijuana and Cocaine parties at Almeijeras' home. Does i

Cubela know this or did he go with:Aer? Was she Osmani Cienfuegos'
ret

Loren Serzey
mistress as reported? The stewardess/- how did he meet her?

i
5. What about his reported contacts with Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo? |
6. Ask him about FIAC? !

7. Perhaps we could ask Oubela for any way to exploit his sta‘e-ent tha! Cuban

military officials are critical of Ahtei 2en Sellats policy ‘o use the Cuban

_revoluiion as an exa~ple for Algeria? They do not like hig, consider hix Cor-unis!

“and point out quickly the merous technical, ccononic, and racial differences

|
|
|
\
t
y, ;
between the ‘wo coun‘ries, : @ |
x
!

z &. Does he constantly wear ~ilitary unifor= ami a cun, or no‘?

fetindananeenmaton =

geese

