104-10167-10270 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

CITACT PEP

GBI Meeting with Oailiero Alente Pujol, 15 Jammry 1961, af. the
Botal Plarre, Sev Tort City i

0%
1. Me, Bervecna] veing the elias Loberto, ocompanted me to the marting:
ee tt =

i
H
i
B
p
i
¢
6
!
i
§
}
8
¢

2a eMule ua tte nl

E
&
F
;
i
fs
Ra
ne
#
5
f



Be 3
5. Hos can this crisis bo salved Kr, Pujol asked.

oe Hr. Pajel informet ne wat on or about the 25% of Jemmary Crise rio
varia ieee @ stexment tn Mtesl euyameing his bree with Compre. I. pete

7, ina icpartence of Hr. Prio a on eeset in the exitaCemtro tnt mould
fay be uerestixeved: there ere tus bis entisCamure frees in cate, ome ia the
TEP sedi we other ie tha Aatentioos Frio's oven brea with testa vill sive
wrenmvia inportance to the Artericots extivivie: is Cie, Bus, Ae Ah
PEspoee! thet the Tuscative Com time of the 12) te prccieet de a mi cer werd net
eo ineorporata into the croup teleate: Pemla vho vexe sclirally ead ‘otersctimally
knoai: | Prloy Pajely Jose Hemal Cortine (Dresitent af Uns 170 Conptcuctionad
Camittes) Abveres Dies, Carbo, Kiro Corican ext Qitliewe Delt, Be facie of
Sts Tid Ererstiee Uomiticn wald be ts teplesat oe

Centro isl to eetect the provisional Govemment. fear

> cortiwtional soverrot, Ssenasic, nozial, pciitte] ext ciluavi
sucild be sibadtied to the Srelpweloriod const ttional perermest ond
shard not bedled by the prov‘stonal: govurcmants Poongcoat all this ee Payoh

9 Pujol eaid that the neviy~ cxmtitcted Ineortive Comittee would qxetat
tisve Cobar tobe the “conrtinetera’ of ower pol!
charged with @ eizpla ost of bese provisions co

Weal cope is tet ed wl

Fe sah EAT AND ig SIAL etait snus Bn Oye camsebe

