# 104-10186-10298

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10298

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NFORMATION REP

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

MA ELALATIN MALAIRO IRANTEACARS APATITA RÃO MARITER INTITA IN INO l'DINI RIAIPA MIALA ENA BARTIDE DI IDE REDIOGRRE RATTA TILE

SEGRET

M! FUREIGY DISSEN

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO.. PAGES

REFERENCES

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBUECT

Earle PEREZ Frina7

(pseudonya "GU'ALTERIO")

CSC1-316/00009-67

7 July 1964

5

DATE Of

1964

INFO

PLACE &

washington. D.C.

DATE ACQ.

June

1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFOIMATIUN SONTCE ERATIMES ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE:

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only.

Do Not Preproduce

SOURCE

former Cuban IS officer näo served with

the Cuban

Intelligence Service until dipril 1964.

Headquarters Comment.

The following report is one of

a serles

containing personaliti information

provided by

the source and includes sapplementel information from the

records of this Agerey.

1.

Farle PEREZ Friman, pseudonya "GUALTERIO," was, until

recently, the chiei of the Direccion Gencral de Inteligencia

(DGI - General Directorire of Intelligence) in Uruguay.

On

his return to Cuba. PEREZ tas suspected by Cuban intelligence

of having been recruited by ine United States or the

Uruguayans and ahile the investigation was being conducted

PEREZ

resided al the Hotel Presidente in Habana.

Doubts

concerning hin vere caused in part by the fact that he

appeared to be liring beyord his salary boch in Uruguay and

in his previous post

anknowa).

This led to a discreet

investigation ou de pare of the Cuban intelligence community

and after the files had been

reviewed and a partial

investigation conducted, tne Cuban Intelligence service

decided

to intervien PEREZ.

It sas discovered, hovever,

that

he had already left the notel and had received

asylum in the

Uruguayan Ambassy; this pas about 1l April 1964.

As a result

of the

discovery of PEREZ'

asylus,

all communications fron the

headquarters of the cuban intelligence service to

field

5

4

3

SACRET

SO POREIUY DISSEN

STATE

I DIA

AEMY

REP CINCI ANT

(Noto, Frato distriburtan indicated Er "I".l

INFORMATION REFORT

WH/SA/8OB!

WE/5/R

WI/SA/NOB:

HE, MADR

WH/SA/CI

5.R11

EDTT

WH/RALE

TOTALE

iNSA

1 OCR

FBI 2

MORMA

TON REPORT

TT°

TENTAT

LX-1540

T

CiTISTEL

NO PROJECT

(AMMUG 1)

CSC1-316/0000-2

COCHOINATING

Transon

RXA :

di

3IBR

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEX

- 2 .

stations were suspended in order that a damage assessment could

be made.

It was concluded that PEREZ had probably identified all

persons whon he knew,

that he had been providing information on

i regular basis concerning all that he had been doing and, as a

result, all desk öfficers at the Cuban intelligence service

headquarters should be inforned so that precaution could be taken

sor. the future.

On 17 April 1964 a meeting of all responsible

desk officers

in the DGI was called to discuss the foregoing

case and other allied mátters.

2.. At the aforementioned meeting, the following topics were discussed:

a. The conmunication systen. and the security of every officer

assigned abroad.

b. The need for

suspending shipment of arns and explosives until

further notice (this was done at once):

Specifically, the sending of a shipment of explosives to

Mexico was suspended.

3.

aside from messages,

Necessare ocond toperation should teet broad

Just prior to 21. April 1964 the suspension of opcrations, as

mentioned above,

was lifted and communications and operatione

continued in a normal fashion.

Headquarters Comments.'

1. In a document dated 15 February 1963 it was reported that one'

Earl PEREZ Freidman, presumably identical with Earle PEREZ

Friman, a Cuban, arrived in Montevideo about 16 January 1963.

He was

working at the Cuban Embassy and was reported to possibls

oe the replacement for Isaac ORRANTIA, Chief of the G-2 section.

2. A report dated 7 May 1963 stated that Earle PEREZ Friman was an

attache at the Cuban Embassy in Montevideo.

He reportedly

NO

FOREGGR

E T

DISSEM

- 6,100-

-...

---

## Page 3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-j.

arrived in Montevideo in January 196: and carried Cuban diplomatic

passport number 6314: he mas described

Rs beina

tingle and

residing. at Boulevard Artigas 1591, apartment 00%.

•3.. In a document dated 15 Mas 196: Earle PEREZ triran nas reported

to be esther the chief or deputy chief of the Cuban intelligence

servicé section of the Cuban Erbassy in Monterideo.

4.

The following biographic Irforration on Farle PEREZ. Friman, dated

3 June 1963.

nas given to a representatire of this. Agency by á

Cuban defector:

5.

Earle PEREZ Friman. Cuban Intelligence scrudee chief at

the Cuban Embassy

in Montevideo, uns born approximately

1940 in Oriente. Cubi.

is single, immature, full of

Communist theory, does not drink, lites girls

and goes

with an unknown lruguayan blonde. He 1s jovial and very.

popular.

PEREZ 1s short, chubby, loung looking and has

a. medium complexion.

has a limited education and 13

not. cultured, but is snooth.

PEREL 15 thc ouly officer

at the Embassy who deals directly "ich the Uruguayan

Foreign Ministry.

The following infornation, dated 27 dune 1963,

was received by a

'epresentative of this Agency from a group of luban cmirre';

trained in the techniques of information collertion und who huve

providad useful reports for luo years:

b.

C ..

for a dairy which nas owned by his

In 1960, Earle PEREZ Primon vas employed delivering malk

(fnu) PEREZ

Martinez,

In Gibara, Oriente Province, Cuba.

PEREL HaS

a great supporter of the Castro regines (sic).

i menber of the

militia, and a Communist indoctionator

PEREZ' mother, Josefa FRIMAN Exposito, aka "Pepa," was a

staunch supporter of Marxist theories, a

indoctrinator (sic), a member of the militia and the chief

of a defensa committee.

In Cibari.

about 1923, 15 five feet five inches tall, reighs about 140

pounds, has light brown hair and is altractivi.

Other members of PEREZ' famlly include the following:

his

maternal grandfather, Ruperto FRIJAN Sarajaldl, an Individual

ECK

FOREIGY

DISSES

---

## Page 4

SECRE

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 4 -

'who enjoys benefits from the Communist regiac.

A maternal

uncle, Ruperto FRIMAN Exposito, who was administrator of the

Gibara customs house in 1959 and since then has operated

h1s own printing shop in Gibara.

A maternal uncle, Jose

FRIMAN Exposito, "ho worked as an accountant for the Gibara

muelpal government prior to the advent of the Castro

regime.

The following information was recelved from the same group which

reported

the information

in paragraph 5 above,

they received the

Information: from

two.untested Cuban sources who arrived in the

United States in 1961.

1522235

The first source said that PEREZ Friman used to live on

J: Aguero St. corner of Carlos M. de Cespedes st., Gibara.

and Josefa FRIMAN Exposito, both of rhon were born in

approximately 1918. Josefa FRIMAN Exposito was the

President of a Defense Committee and a militlanoman..

PEREZ. Friman was born in approximately 1941, is white, has

a rosy complexion, is approximately five feet five inches

tall, with light brown hair and eyes, a strong, athletic

He went to grammar school in the "Jose Marts" private school,

and up to 4th year of high

school in the Holguin Institute

In April 1962 he

nas glven a scholarship to study the diplomatic career in

Habana (source acquired this information in a letter from.

Cuba from one of his daughters who is now in Cuba).

To the best of source's recollection, PEREZ Friman's best

friends who share his

political ideas are:

Captain Luis

PINEDA Perez, now a Rebel Army Major assigned to the DTI in

Habana; Emilio GONZALEZ

Sablon, a G-2 member, teacher, and

leader of the 26th of July House; Pablo Juan FERNANDEZ (mat.

unk.), who

made a trip to the USSR together ulth a fer

Cuban artists, Including Odalis FUENTES (mat. unk.) .

PEREZ Friman' is the person who used to sign the I.D. Cards

of militiamen

from Gibara until 14 April 62 (information

HO

S

ECR

ET

FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 5

7.

NO MOREIGY DISSEN

- 5..

source through personal correspondence received

b.

acquired by

from (ubs).

PEREZ Friman personally accused source of presiding an anti-

Castro aceting, and source was arrested on

26 November 1959.

The prosecutor

asied for a 24 pear imprisonent sentence

during the trial held in l'a 1960, but source ras acquitted.

PEREZ Friman also accused source's daughters in January 1960

of respect."

He made one of these accusations in

Gibara and. the other in Harguin so that there rould be a

double order of arrest against them.

The second source sald that Earle PEREZ Friman was known by

"El Bonstillo" romething like

"Pretty Boy'7 in

Gibara and in the Holguin Institute of Secondary Education.

One day PEREZ Friman vent to source's home in Gibara, Oriente

Province, commandeered a station wagon and took it to the

Rebel Army Post, saying thil he

(PEREZ Friman) sas the one

oho gave orders.

This station wagon was gradually dismantled

in this Rebel Army Post.

According to source, as of ¿he

time of his departure from

Cuba, PEREZ Friman was a supporter of the regime.

Source has ners that PEREZ Frinan vas given a scholarship to

take a diplomatic course and that he was studying English.

It mas reported in a document dated l1 October 196? that Earle

PEREZ Friman. Cuban intelligence chief in Montevideo, viil be

leaving Montevideo for Cuba soon although he has not jot rcccived

his passage fare; he 15.

horever, no loiger working.

Eduardo

HERNANDEZ Gispert, Cuban Cultural Attache, has taken over PEREZ'

functions in the Embassy.

10

E

E T

PORAIGI

DISSEN

---

