4104-10229. 10427) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J
+

ps _ Vocational Rehariiication ©
| State of Florida

July 8, 1964
(Wernanpez, raul) .

fae

ape

ves

Talia subject has beon soon three times at taa Psycholozical Service
tee Center, On April 9, 1954, va had a long interview with hin in which
.ho explained the history of ‘his soizures, - Oa Juno LL, 1954, he

roceived the TAT and a Freo.Ascoctation Test, ucing a List of words
that was ocpeclally prepared for him. Cn that date, he promised

to coma back to bring a List that he had mace of all his soizures
aince September 1942 up to the present tine, with an indication of
the emotional problems that ho had on tho. daya ho wao sicke This
lict was drought, by him, to our office on June 30, 1964, .

bee

. Reason for Consultation |

To try to determine Af thore wore any ee ne factors influe
encing this subject's epileptic seiziros.

pa EE of Paycholozical Investigation

-In a.caso auch as this, it. io obvious that organic factors are tho
ain doterainant of tho patient's disace, but “from the interview “
and tho tests, we receivod the impression that the paticnt’s onotione!
al state has often played a certain role in trizzoring his cptleptic
solzures. Paeychothorapoutia treatment that would enable this. pa~
tient to gain better control of hia emotions would obviously be highs
ly beneficial for him,

od _

syhe

: Intollisence

This subject was not formally tested in order to datermine his I.Qey

tut from his conversation and from hie responses to the personality

tests, it is quite clear that he is a man endsved with a. superior

intolligenco, although somo impairment has necegsarily resulted bos

couse of his frequent epLloptic seizures, end, recently, because of

i his brain surgery. Ho was not tested for intellinence becsuso in vas

irae +not feaaiblo to do co ainco his opcration had been done just a few

‘ weeks ago and the possibility of some transient effecta of the sure

‘| J gical procedure might still influence any results. Howaver, from a

1 strictly clinical viewpoint, whon comparing, the subject's reaction

{ bofore and after the oporation, tho amount of impairment produced

i « by tho oparation does not scem to bo really considerable, and, on the*
other hand, there is a remarkable docreaso in his anxiety.



vat

sme ne

an : July 8, 1954

When this patient was-12 years old, tho nv. thee
Bad becn Raving for years, beqern Avert a cnecte
= = fetes Corey

~ thewe Rad, strony avelene feelinys towcre here
She as loving: and kind ‘to him, but at tho sane tice Conmincerin; and
Over=profectivo.s Tha first épileptic acizure of tho patient took
place after an arguomont with hia mothor wao threatened to scold hin.

whea the cubject was 16 years old, he otarted treatment which was
successful for olovon yaara. Unfortunately, when ho waa 27 ycars old,’
-.@t a timo that ho was fighting opdinst Batisca's dictatorship, ha wat
Adentified as a conspiratox.andicent to Jail. Thero ho was beaten
by tho polico or. guards in-a really savaga way and thie was tho dee
ginning of q ‘now stage in his Life 4n which ha froquontly suffered
fron epileptic colcures. It 19 tmportant to point out that thig bos
- gan when tho pationt.was the object of an unjust aggroseion by. authe

rity fisuroa. i :
’

ve+.. Among tho-most importand psychological conflicts of the paticnt at

-tha ‘prosont tima, we notico the following:

.@) . The ceparation from his parents. It 1s obvious that the
Sudject has otill strong embivalent foolings toward his

- parents and especially toward hia mother. ?He hatos hor

aan + Ovor=protactivenoss and ‘domineering attitudes, but at tho
See came time, he feols ead about.tho separation from hia fantly.

b) Tho idea of boing Limited'in Life because of his epilepsy.
This problem waa vory: doeply folt by the patient since he

_ Was a child, because at that timo hia mother used to restrain
hin froa having a normal boy's Life duo'to tha celztures, Hoe
wao considdrad ae a boy-with’a vory bad temper and "seen

_ sonetines by his nelctibors ag some cort of a cevil", This

. Moans that’ tho patient developed very Giron agsrecsive tone
dencios as a reactton to this frustration. At Present the
Paticat fools that.thore are many goals in life that he will
naver be ablo to roach because of hia discase. For instanco,
Concerning a profession and a cuperior education, # tee

¢) The -paticnt has had some failuras in love which woro very a
frustrating for hime He has nevor boon formally engaged and
whon he approaches a girl he Always has in mind tha 4dea that
ho cannot foel woll with a woman that Would pity him for his

disease, ieee 7 %



= eee 62 — xs)

.. _Gianwannez, rout ) a duly 6, 1964.

6), For several montlio the patient hash’ ad a comzon-Law wifo, here
in Miami, but 1t secma that ha haa never been dacply in love
with her, It 4o rathor a mittar of sex dnd compantonship.

*Novertholosa, he often arguda with her because cho fa a Gomle
mooring person, who "wante to bo-a mothor for him", Sono of

the patient's recont epiloptic seizures tool place aftor an

" arguement with here

@) Tho political situation in Cuba is another source of cuffere
ing “forthe patiant, ac it fo for all Cuban oxilos. It io,

: however, important to note that the patient's reactions to :
“7 71 Baeista and Cactro’s dictatorchips wore not only tho rooult ‘
eee of his patriotic feelings, but algo tho exprossion of his . -
doeply rooted aggresaivoneta against all forms of unjust ee
Ox unreasonable authoritarian -behavior, .

Qne hangs

+:Joao Ie Lacaga, PheDe ’
Clinieal Peychologist ta
PSYCHOLOGLCAL SERVICE CENTER .

