104-10074-10192" ©

~{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT Ji

(BO YORHIGH, DISSEU -

COUNTRY
cor

SUBJECT
¢

aca

Lotter, Weitten by Fernando Melo,’
Indicating That No, ons
etween Luiy Starke and Rolando.
_ Masfe: 4

by EN gone nn MERON NUE FINALE ROR UAT RE ETE CLs

B-8-C-B-B-T REPORT NO

pate vistR. 7 March 1968 ¥
Costa Rica

9 February - 4 March 1 68
¥ rf

WeITe  Tyyen then ey

Costa Rica, San Jose
(4 March 1968)

SOURCE

&

8-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEM

22
1. (Pield Comscat: The 01108 tungl a6 should be read

in conjunction wi vier tear peas 4065) and
22(gns3<o99), which reported that Fernando

Melo Fontanills, a Cuban ozile in Costa Bica, wo serving as
an intormediary in nogotiations between Ladvig Gtarke Jimenez,
a Costa Bican right-wing oxtronict, and Bolandéo Wasierrer, a
Cuban oxile in tho United States who wa involved in plotting

inet the govormmeat of Preaidont Bono Duvolior of Haiti.
The negotiations dealt with a plan waereby Starke would pro-
vide a staging ares for an invasion of Baiti by Haitian asd
Cuban oxiles under Basferrer's leaderobip. In return Has~
ferrer, if succoasful, would gaubsoquently support a nove by
Starke against the Costa Bican Government. Helo wao roported
to be planning © trip to Hew York on 21 February 1988 to talk
with Bagferrer and the latter's representative in the negotia-
tions, Father Diego Madrigal Alvarez.) -

2. When Melo returned to San Joc on 2 Barch after
visiting Nev York City and Miemi, Florida, he was detained
and searched by security officials at the airport. Among
Helo's possescions the cocurity officials found o lottor,
signed by Helo, addreosed to Father Diego Madrigal, Bou York.
Tho lettor was dated 9 February 1968... It waa typeuritton on
letterhead stationery of Rogelio BR. Pinto Inpresos. cud

Commgst: Melo sells printing equipment a

thus poy ve Pfaingss connection with the Pinto firm;
however, Rogel Pinto bag been reported in the past to have
been involved in plotting against the Costa Rican Gov

hrtadasha penn

DISTRIBUTION

Ledkew

lOHN F, KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 Ey

me

CHES NA ETO NES

Snr TEMP A HEAT SS MS TNR NTEIODRETTSN PRM NOR TOA APES RNR



Page 2 of 2 Pages
8-E-C-B-E-T WO FORBIGN DISsRi

3. Melo's letter acknowledged receipt of a cable from
Madrigal; tt thon wont on to state that "Rogelio obtained
tho viea" and now "the Haitian.can come when he wishes."
(?ield Comment; Bogolio way be Rogelio Pinto. (8834099 2.2
quoted Holo og stying that Starke bad obtained a visa for
Jacques Woringlane, a Haitian who would bo the first of
tho Maeferrer group to arrive in Costa Rica.) Helo then wrote
that because nothing had boon heard from Hadrigal since tho
latter's visit to Costa Bica “tho frieads here” had bsgun to
believe that “ovorything hao been a pige dream of mine; that
yo neither are going to do anything nor havo anything.” Belo
complained that Madrigal's cilence appaared to have "lossencd
the cathusioac= of this man of actioa and of rapid recolutions,
who doos not like to be made to waste his tinea.” Holo warned
Madrigal that if the Rasferrer group had not reachsd a deci-
gion to move ahead with tho plan, it would be better for tho
Baitian not to come to Costa Rica. Helo alco warned that if
there vore no Cubano participating in Wasforrer's groject, he,
( Helo, would not cupport it, since he vas interested only in
the Cubana’ problems and not thoce of tho Haitians. Helo in-
formed Madrigal that he oxpected to arrive in Hew York on 18
Pobruary; he suggested that they diccuss the subject in detail
at that tine.
4. On 4 Sarch Helo again left Gan Joss for Miami. He
told the Costa Bican security officials that he would be suay
from Costa Bica for a month. Z

5. Wield Dissem: State Aray CINCSO

ramet
a
fe
=
mes

wn rahi

sus

i
a

