“fo4-10140-10219 42022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
Won tee yy
~~. CIA TH NAL. USE ONLY

™~

al

Monday ~- 2 May 1977

77?- 3007/2e|

: - 24. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Called Bill Miller, Staff

: Director, Senate fielect Committee on Intelligence, ‘and set up a meeting
for him with/fEri¢ senstead)) C/CCS, at 11:00 a.m. on 3 April to discuss
a story regar ing[ Agency over placements which may appear shortly
in the Chicago Sun Times. 24 :

Talso asked Miller if there was any remaining assistance the

Agency could provide on the matter of a briefcase temporarily lost by
one member of the Committee staff and Miller said he thought not.

25. (Confidential ~ DFM) LIAISON Received a call from Stan
Taylor, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who referenced
one answer provided by the Agency to the supplemental questions [9-2
submitted by the Committee regarding Agency activities(in Micronesia.
Taylor thought that the documents xeferenced in this answer might help
in convincing the Committee to delete the most offensive sentence in the
interim report. I promised to bring the materials to Taylor the following .
morning.

26, (Unclassified - GLC) LIAISON Steve Fallis, House Select
Committee on Assassinations staff, called in follow-up of his Call ORente-.
FETday COnCeNitig~weeurity-clearenvessand related matters. 1 told him
that Mr. Doug Cummins would be in touch with him today, after he
has talked with our Security people. ‘

27. (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Called Sam Hoskinson,
National Security Council staff, to check on the President's contacts
with the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence on the Micronesia
statement, He confirmed that the President had talked with
Chairman Daniel Inouye (D., Hawaii) on Friday afternoon and the
Chairman had indicated that the Committee would hold off any action
on the statement until Chairman Inouye returned to, Washington and the
Committee meets on Tuesday, At that time, the matter will be brought
before the full Committee again, Hoskinson said the President was also
considering calling Senator Gary Hart (D., Colo.) on the matter,

I1GWUS8S

