(104-10248-10100 . [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

PS paoets Barry EROORE

. : i

i 2X. On 3 demo 1960 (fellowing arrangencnts mads in Havass, Cuba tuo 7
weeks earlier by the undareigned), Miss Jumo Cua arrived in New York City |

: for o series of noctings and ble rearuitaent +8 a contact of the aH i i
Divicion, : i |

i : 2. Originally edhedalad to arrive Priaay ovening 3 aay, Mis (vite F
arrived early 7riday pornicg, having left Havana the j.revivus night, fee
travelling by way ef Miami, Thiea eamplicated matters same-hot since viss .
Cond ¥.8 not fully iufermed of the true revsan for our askin, bur tu cone at
to liew York, <8 4 reault, she sede oumtact with o few peo, le aba we a z
would have rather not have bad her prior tu ewr conted with hor, hanes | ]
of al. persons contacted in few Tork are contained in a esp.rate wemoratuun ~ i f
: i based on a debricfing od out da dascingtea un 6 June 196d. ohe also
Hq > @ontact: estar of! ‘tn Hew Tork,.oni-attensted to
y . .+ find out about me froa him, He hed been bricfed by me varlicr in the week,
: ; hovever, ent neraly referred te ne 68 a “friend” with many contacts in
newspaper flold and in goverment circles. xias Cult ano~o oo ag “nery
caeiiees Rubaer® ami as far as I know, ebe has no knowloi,e of ny real name,

f 3. My first contact. ith Mise Cuba was made in havana, Cuba on 23

: Harch 1960. ‘eo met in the eaffee shop Stade Hidlton pote) «here 1
}, : was introduced to her hy of hy cover at the Line

i ---.. Was that my visit to Havana was baing sponsored puman and rrench news
: apor lnverests", leaving somodast vague my specific sponsors, Hise Cusb
did not imyire about s¢ any furthar at that time and was helpful in getting |
Sprointacnts for me ant kr. Claus Jecoti, a Leitimste Gursan correspomtent

f of "Der Splegcl®, with eertaia Cuban eff{cials, «¢ met soln soveral tines
i during ay stay in ievana ona found hor a woman with many contacts among

‘ Loaders of the sevolutionary covenent. before lewing iupa 1 eet her for
dinner in an atteapt to evaluste her possible usefuiness to us out ade no
furtour effort toward a recruitment.

4. After returning to Hoodjuarters anu aiscusaing her stratogic
position within the hierdthy of the nevolutionaries, Chlef «i and Chief
vH/4 opined that a recruitment ettempt should be made in view of the in
eresaing intersot in the activities of the Cuben g.v-rnment.

Se Oa 20 May 1960 on encther trip to Havana, Mies is was. again cor=
tacted and after two mectings was anked to come to xew Yorks at no tine
in ay discussiuns with her was Cls named or inferred. Ip navana 1 talked § |

k
{
!
i
f
i-
i
;
ul



her about ber “future” end sald thst 1 hed boon comowiat impressed by her
flsency in Spanish ond sbility to “get around’, 1 asked hur if she hed aa

would make use of her talents, in ansser ty ber injuirixs os to vhes- ite
would have to do, I vaguely roferred to re,orting aus ariving ami pos :
coms public relations activity. ‘bo agreed to cone and I advanced -
her $150.00 te purchase her plans tickets,
i ae 6. The question of "leave" to come to how York wos brought up for 1°
: . told her that I didn't want ber to gt into difficuicies sith her uffice,
‘She said that she wie pretty mach her oan boss ans would find an ne ute

i

excuse, ister we deciied that I woule send her a teia,ran in tue mune of i
her fath r frum Now York telling her thet fatinur wal. ve in nem Tork for a :
few dass ani vould like to seo her. sho believed ist this aula ve & 00a ee

excuse bucause all har close high level friensa-inelucng aor due nts 4

know tact she de very atieched to her feticr ans se Usb he

; money from time to tine. 1 disu .ek-d shebe ro ber. ig b) bew Torn wuts

{ crente any suspicions on tue prt of the solice or Mtg prred.e one

: eo HOG ase AL wouldnt beca se Of the rether Mol rete of oralLic by : 4

i offiet3s to ans ir thought Said “aoe. bud, chuube if k 4
: 4

H Lol he honvatly fadt thet Lew York wouls of ue moat Gade o€

: G0-

p das QuBb told no she hoe an office on the aiu.th fiver vs %

} butluing fir kavana-which is the seme. building ona». Gaoor tet hoa

po. Coot hea his office, che hag 2 secretory ani u ;rivete vile. |
} Olpal tasn ia thot of sublac colutions views-vla yt) ob "aed q
“ wtacsea dort

fu Of bewsyp sper OG aged.
“In aicitdon to cublic “tions She lotaly fue bee 2 cuainy, Bor
involved in the "Youth Movayent" o the cevoliti o cy SoPTRanls
har ;repent tesks 1s to organize “Youth Camps” wil to mene plein for ate ine
flux of “Foreign Youth leavers" who abail be inviion iv tae moe. veluha.
¥ Fidel's swersicrds, calle hee
hari “RA, asl cialis to cee Fiuel avout tw oF tice Lames &
irregular periods, usualy to translate some artisice “te has dally ©.
with her boss, Juti, “xeouthve Chief of Fidel C Jis.'s ufliew. sie recelves
& galery uf 28) pesos a aoath ana the fringe benelits tet all other a:value
tlomery goveriment an, loyees retalves

he wb, coce translat

sccm Sica

i
i
i
!

8, Mies cuss, on American citizen employod by tic wubat wewcivtlenry
Covermmnt,-is a difficult type of person to charact: rhees
the horth smcrican midwest, sre left Lome in her carly tact
Featless ami sure or less “lomeless” ever since. eis "bobecter
type, and hur Lifo sdth Letin amerleans of all waihe of Life narcuied
consider:tly ami has recoved much of the somanliness aii e-meth frat te:
Due to many factors inher past she hue beewe overtly Kuru snd ovia am
Confused. She docan't yuite fea: .t one anywhire ory more ata uli ae un
several oceasine that she has never dew fully accepbad by tec vetler cluss
Latina, or jatin Amaricsns [rom the sac waik of Life sue wuus Pras. he
belioves this ie one re.son why ah “fits ip with tre “rewluts martes"
for they too are no: fully accepted uy navana Cubens ans sore or asa
to thasseives, Miws Oli has undergone sub awtioual stress i:



Ae
eer

yan good conspirstorial saiso which at first surpriced ao ecmewhst.,

but oft-r learning more of her back, ound ani pist «ctivities (loa iilieit
leve affair ond engaged in dope troffie) it io probably by now secumi mature :
to her. ohe will elo need considerable stearing toward intecitpance targets. |
Although sie sits in the aidat of mmcrous activizies of intelligence intervst, |
her ox personal intsrests antil.now have been siong Vestly diffrent iices
and much of her post activity with the cevolutionary government Lis bean

ed by emotion and idealis, oho is enthusi.tic and is lisble to take
her first intelligence assignments with soge dill ectantiua, not puryesefully
but 2 a result of har “collaborating” wits: a initud itates s-rvice of sme

* stoture ageinst a forco she unce fimly believed in tut litely has been

tuming against luca.se of faliure to mt.ricli-s ciony tie iteatstie lines
he originally artici;rteds

10, Wes CBD aleo hee wiry (ew xaterLiiistic alus or cesires, Money
moans almost nuthing to hor as is indicated in the rupurt of-her aeurt singe
Of the cash a:vanced her for a round triy: tick-t * yurchased
@ ome. way ticket ani used the other to pay off ce: bE nouns
whutsouv-r of this and apperently obtains end spun:a mony wiinoul « true
realisation of ite value, che lives over hor incoze 0, ay;rosteataly lw
pesos (equivalent to dollars) a sunth, making 3; S46 cece by hanzoute = |
froa friends or, if she is really caught orort, wy heving ner fats sens
her noney.

LL. while in liew York, severs! meetings «re auld with her and she was
gredually indoctrincted to the fact thut cy interests in her were of an intele
ligence natare, ClA was never mentioned in our tf cuesions yet at ons ,oict
sha said she suspected I must ve fra cls becau: Other gov-rmacnt agency
Operates outoise of the United tates ans ner pst experionce th: the 7Bl
was of a nature to indionte that tney always usk hor to visit-thay at tusir
offic She.was questioned once un & trip to kew York in conection with
the Karita LOdui2 case.)

12, while im Now York discussing her ,otcnticl wth her, it was obvivus
thet her complex bacneround, present activitiou, vest eircse of friends ana |
her unoteble character vould call for a more thorugh debriefing, Ste agreod
to came to washington with me to ‘see and talk to a frien ior e technical = |

eveluation of ber ability.to act securely® ana on 6 June 1960 she arrived

et the hotel Mlacistone in “sahington registering +s anneveli -ileva. arrange
ments ware made with w/4/C] to have her polygra,hed to whicn she agreed,

‘That evening she was taken to the Hotei aaleizh where an atesive debrisfing
_ and evalustdun of her wae made, Tho results of tis aebdriofing incluaing 0
chronology of her activitica aod past 1istory sre coutainedin a separate ¢4/:{*

SECRET

vsti a,

“edi



| that eld matvers pertaini.g te Cuban redotiuns alth tbe eu Cl

Cube, she could havo to be camletely honest and subject horsalf
to some control. she was given a fou targets to concentrate on until our pat
meeting as an attenpt to evaluate her ability along there linus, . .he was,
asked to obtain nsass and contucts of soviet ani satellite citizens dealing

vidth the cevolutionary govermment.. Sho w<s -5«.d to see the Chief of prensa

whem she knows weil ond monitor his sctivithes, che was cakes to find
2 ruse to see Kune rat, head of the rres China iuws +gency (Commmist) and
monitor hia activities ales. Aiso, Siw «as toss to try to uchenaine dit
Nunes Jinines asccoc plished va hie visit wo the .oviet union. she uns told
e and Lhe
voviets are uf interest ao wall.as ary inticetions of local vsaumict. party
aciivitics With the Covermeat.

U5. at first i sas plauning ty 40 Wo ievns te evtenliun » socal con
tact, honuver, just before her auparture Mies... sugersted Unt she make
anotoer trip to sew York aruund 1 uly ain te wa-cuo tat etter of « socal
-Contect, if acviscblo, at that time. I borieve be.t the invana ototids Should
detersina.1f they want to hive locai sccess to Mio. CJb ani her .clivitics.
. If vias Cris can be coctreiled and accepts stucring, At suslt perhaps be
desirable to sould -her into 4 long rane adect vy having her bucow very

eony with the Covasist leaders ani beoune, ov:rliy, Ven more

the revolutionary aovemnt. Later she could ,«rhajs be upset elves!
Lotin Awerica, probzbly among the rabid left ving youth groups tbat are
becoming inerectirgly antiqkmericun and more owerfui

: 16, We would approciste any comments the huvana tation nay have com
corning where and Low to establish contact Witt bor locelly. © feel thet
her usefulness hao current need and ane may be sole t> hancis many on the
spot osaignments for the local te uses need direction anc that
Yoo could best be handled iocally. Her next visit te New York kes aircady
been laid on by her phynicion friend who will re west her te visit the city
for "treatment" before the doctor ucperts for .urope.on on extended tripe
Miss CUGb was informed that if hir services art consiuered uucfui, -e «Lil
pay hor 4 sum of 200 Cuban pesos a conth. wne agreed but she was tole tint
any wnreliubility or indication of aishonesty on her part uulo orera the
relationship. The sum of 200 posus wes sugztectad after discussing the
matter of compans.tion with a stnior member of tno liavana tation

Distributions
orig = st/t/cl :
1 =

Ree

