# 104-10250-10079

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10250-10079

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

* RETURNTO CI

Background Use Pay

MaDe Not Reproducs

22 July 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT

: KIMSEY, Herman

1.

On 22 July 1965, MIac (Thea Hall) advised the under-

signed that she had received a

call from Mr. Kimsey and that

she was concerned inasmuch as he appeared to have up-to-date

information regarding activities within TSD. She will discuss

this with the undersigned in detail at 0900 hours on

23 July 1965.

2.

Mr. Jan Beck,

ISD/QDS, was contacted to determine

if he had received calls from Mr. Kimsey.

He stated that a

call was received at his home on Saturday, 17 July 1965.

His

wife took the call as he was not available and Kimsey advised

he would call back.

On 21 July, he called Jan at the office.

In addition to normal chit-chat, Mr. Kimsey indicated a desire

to get in touch with Lon Thomas

of TSD/QDS. He seemed to be

that lon was not here and was attending the

International conterence of Questioned Documents Examiners in

Los Angeles.

The gist of Kimsey's interest in the contact

with Lon Thomas appeared to be for the purpose of having him

pick up something from the Identi-Kit people in the Los Angeles

area (lownsend Company, Identi-Kit Division, 805 South Grand

Avenue, Santa Ana, California).. Kimsey is saia to be a crose

friend

слей с. мок, дило?

of Courtney E. Owens, Chief, of Identi-Kit Division and

apparently has some business with him.

Mr. Beck indicated that

he got the idea from Kimsey's conversation that someone from

Identi-Kit who would be at the International Convention may

contact Lon Thomas while he is there. Mr. Kimsey did not ask

about other people he knows at TSD.

on the order of "How is everything

going questions were more

3.

Kimsey stated to Beck that he was working with a

ecurity asanation or company and that they were making a

ecuritv st

as installation in the Kuwait Embassy (the Kuwait

Embassy was burglarized recently).

4.

Mr. Lon Thomas will be queried regarding his contact

with Kimsey upon his return to Washington.

H. McShexry

Chief

TSD/Liaison Security Staff

---

