‘Taod-fo0ss“i0070| (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

iY PeeCRd

¢ .
; il C
ib . 2 AT ON
7 i CSLNO, 10-5
~ ag a)
fo CLANDESTINE senvie ~ SECURITY
iW INSTRUCTION NO. 10-1

= 275)| Revised 17 July 1958

e
Pe Wwe = =
COVERT APPRO AND RELATED MATTERS

Staten nee sn mene sMaeuoreteiet ins WSIS

Reference: CSI-F No. 1075, 17 July 1958"

a0 a Rescission: CSI No. 10-5, 31 January 1955

CONTENTS

Page Page

PURPOSE... +++.. 1” EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS

GENERAL. ......- sessed] OF FOREIGN SERVICES..... 5
INVESTIGATIONS. ...........2 NOTIFICATION OF TERMINA-
OPERATIONAL APPROVALS....2 TION OR DISCONTINUANCE
COVERT SECURITY APPROVALS ~~. © OF COVERT SECURITY AP- - :

ee AND PROPRIETARY PROVALS OR PROPRIETARY i

eae . APPROVALS... ... «ee 3° | APPROVALS he 5 7
COVERT SECURITY APPROVALS SPECIAL SER ce ee a

bodgaogs

FOR LIAISON WITH UNITED BLE A :
STATES OFFICIALS . 9 RE CTIO! CRUIT- af

SERVANTS OF AGEN Ee 2 ae MENTIN PLACE’ oo... 0.2.6
EMPLOYEES... | . ST ate)

1, PURPOSE \ G,

\
\yseae »

‘This instruction describes’ ‘lions of headquarters components with
regard to covert approvals and related matters which are the subject of
CSI-F No. 10-5,

: 2. GENERAL

a. The Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff, is delegated authority to act for the
Deputy Director (Plans) in the exercise of a!l functions which are the lat-
ter’s responsibility with regard to the granting of Operational Approvals
and Provisional Operational Approvals.

b. The Director of Security has designated the Deputy Director for Investiga-
tian and Operational Support, Office of Security, to represent him in dis-
charging the functions wnica are reserved to him with regard to the granting

_ of Covert Security Approvals, Provisional Covert Security a:
E Proprietary Approvals, and Provisional Proprietary Approvai.
©. it is the basic intent of both components’ that sensitive operational data
shall remain within the custccy and ‘nowledge of the Clandestine Services,
toe and that. sensitive security investigative data shall semain inthe custods
and knowledge of the Office of Security. “It is recognized, however, that
such data may be necessary for proper performance by either component
ead, consequently, where necessary, it shall be made available or shall be
discussed to the extent necessazy

AMICON

+ DRSEES cay gl
io aes ~



14-00000

ae CST NO. 10-5 am!

LAREN TF by

CLANDESTINE SERVICES - AN) SECURITY '
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5 \v. 7 4 Revised 17 July 1958 j
WW eo LAyy) sf |

3. INVESTIGATIONS & yr |
Se enener enh lean ee A

tion with approval matters, except for the check of certain Agency records,
is reserved to the Office of Security, © tres sieanreaisinnes Abeer q

: 5 i
qe. a. The assembly:and analysis.of all file matertal- (including the files of the Dp) |
Recores Integration Division) in the Clandestine Services will be accom- .
plished by professional personnel of the interested operating divisions
under the technical supervision of the Counter Intelligence Staif and sub-
ject to spot check by the Counter Intelligence Staff, Certification will be F
made in each case by a responsible official of the requesting division that Fan
the materfal furnished 1s complete and accurate. a)

4, OPERATIONAL APPROVALS

b. ‘The requesting division will assemble any biographical data; information
of investigative or security significance (such as additional names the
: subject may have used); information relating to-character, reputation, ~~...
. politics, or other activities, favorable and aan information or
ackground Information: aaa quivalent (in du- wa
plicate); and fteld traces. Any ce ‘ished by. the _
2 ~ subject concerning himself {seat fe ry statement, records . oar
of activities or emplo; oe etc.) will e - H
be furnished verbati Ss thus\produced--includ- :
ing that resulting frot cal interrogations, Baal a observation, Vv
field lavestigations, el2.--will bg furnished to the Counter Intelligence
Stat! for necessary tralSni¥p}ph to Whe'OitiGe of Security, It is also nec-
essary to forward PRQ Part\W th the /Counter Intelligence Staff before
‘an Operational Approval will We issued. The Counter Intelligence Staif
will rot forward PRQ Part IT to the Office of Security. In rare, compli-
cated, or sensitive cases the Office of Security, in coordination with the
Counter Intelligence Staff, may wish actually to review the material of
the Records Integration Division. A brief practical statement of the scope,
nature, and geographical area of the proposed usage of the subject will
be furnished to the Office of Security along with the other data.

—

c. The requester should also furnish to the Counter Intelligence Staff for |:
transmission to the Olfice of Security any suggestions regarding the in-
vestigation to be conducted and any particular points to be emphasized in
the Investigation, such as special skills, abilities, and weaknesses of the
subject.” The requester should also indicate what would be the most) 27
plausible type of cover (1. e., general Government or commercial) to be
employed in:the conduct of the investigation and whether the subject has
been briefed as to the fact of a pending iavestigation and, if not, why this
4s not feasible.

d.” Following appropriate investigation and analysis of a'case, the Office of isi SME kay
Security will forward {ts recommendation to the Counter Intelligence
Staff, with the lnvestigative data enclosed. Upon receipt of this material



14-00000

CSI NO. 10-5

ee

= 1\ SECURITY
Revised 17 July 1958

CLANDESTINE SERVICES
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5

v ewe tot

the Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff, or his designee, will, if the Office of
Security does not recommend against the use of the individual, determine
whether an Operational Approval should be granted and will potily the Ot-
fice of Security of its decision, However, in the event the Office of Secu~
rity recommends against the use of an individual and the Clandestine
Services still desires, on a-calculated risk basis, to use the individual,
the Counter Intelligence Staff will inform the Office of Security of thia
Ce fact, In this event, the Counter Intelligence Staff and the Security Support
ar ao Division wili endeavor to arrive at an agreed pesition and, to this end,
the former will hold the granting of the Operational Approval in abeyance

until five day have élapted after the Office of Security has been advised -f
of this Intention. The Counter ee 8 AN) NI the Office of E
Security whenever it has: 2
iJ Sanit Wi NY) ;
5 (1) Granted an Operat! 1 ona Bhorsona Qperational Approval.
aan ae
(2) Cancelled an Opera Aeros 4 :
7 e. In Operational Approval HE tice of Security will forward investi-
a gative reports, name check rdjults, etc., to the Counter Intelligence Staff.

a, In extremely sensitive cases, however, particularly those in which the - ot
- _ security or good of the Agency a3 a whole 1s involved, the Oifice of Secu-
5 rity will not be obliged to furnish all investigative material. In such cases
s the Office of Security will inform the Couhter Intelligence Staff that such
- material has been withheld and will, upon request, discuss the matter with
: the Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff, or other appropriate official of the
5 Clandestine Services.

0 £. A Provisional Operational Approval may also be requested where clrcum-
stances warrant. A search of the indices of the Agency, including those

: of the Office of Security, is a minimum requirement for issuance of a Pro-

- visional Operational Approval. .

g. Whenever interest in an individual under consideration for elther an Oper~
ational Approval or a Provisional Operational Approval is terminated for
‘any reason, the requester, in order to prevent needless processing, will
notify the Counter Intelligence Staff promptly so that the latter may {a tura
‘ advise the Olfice of Security.

ear errno ene ca

5. COVERT SECURITY APPROVALS AND PROPRIETARY APPROVALS

|

a, All background matertal will be assembled by ihe interested divistons and
will include any biogrephic data; Information of an investigative or secu-
rity significance; information-relating to character, reputation, poiitics,

A Ts past employm idences, and otner activities; favorable and unfavor;
te able information; ¥RQ Part I or its equivalent (in duplicate); and field
traces, This material is forwarded direcil7 to the Office of Security ta

{its original form, (Traces need not be obiained from the Records Late-
gration Division; see paragraph,5.b., below.) A brief practical statement.
of the’ scope, nature, and geographical area of use of the subject will also™

wee

thos qi ood pe



_ eGeyu eee mi
& wy AV” CSI NO, 10-5

CLANDESTINE SERVICES \v.\. SECURITY
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5 > Ww B Revised 17 July 1958

be furnished to the Office of Security. The requester should also furnish
to the Office of Security any suggestions regarding the investigation to be
Sonducted and any particular points to be emphasized in the investigation,
such as, special skills, abilities, and weaknesses of the subject. The re.
Quester should also indicate what would be the most plausible type of cover —_--ninsti~
(. e., Government or commercial) to be employed in the conduct of the
investigation and whether the subject has been briefed as to the fact of a
. . Pending investigation and, # not, why this is not feasible,
ie

b. In Covert Security Approval or Proprietary Approval cases, the files of the
/ Records Integration Division will be searched by representatives of the
Oitice of Security. All files of the Records Integration Division, excect
those portions containing specific sensitive operational data, will be made
available to the representatives of the Otfice of Security. In those ins ©)
stances where a document of interest contains sensitive operational data,
designated professional personnel within the operating division will re-
view that portion of the information and furnish therefrom to the repre~
sentatives of the Otfice of Security all information of the nature described
1 in Paragraph 5.a., above, The Office of Security will conduct appropriate
a investigation in each case and will issue or deny Covert Security Approvala
: and Proprietary Approvals, and Provisional Covert Seguglty Approvals snd
Provisional Proprietary Approvale, G

Pan
- ’e. The Office of Security will retain the inves an
- Approval cases or Proprietary Ap; fe drat wil;

seo ;
Oy 2 :

(2) Make available to the BIG Wlcgence Statt wr abuts infor-
mation in cases wher! at security Approvale Proprietary Ap- i
Provals are granted,

Ww) WY) Sa 4
(2) Immediately call to the ate ‘ unter Intelligence Staff any st
new evidence in Covert Security Approval or Proprietary Approval
the tbat Feflects the subject’s connection with a foreign government,

the Communist Party, or any front organization of the Communist
Party.

Covert Security

a. Where the Otfice of Security issues or denies a Covert Security Approval
or a Proprietary Approval, formal notification will be directed to the r 7 ™~
—,

siete Guester. In the case of disapproval one copy of the security disapproval
wil be forwarded to the Counter Intelligence Staff, Where a Covert se-
garlty Approval or Proprietary Approval is denied and the Clandestine
Services still desires to use the subject on a calculated risk basis, the Of-
fice of Security will, upon request, furn'sin to the Counter Intelligence Stall a aie
Srarnary of the investigative data, Thereatter, the Counter Intelligence
Staff, the requester, and the Security Support Division will attempt to
an agreed position,

¢.. A Covert Security Approval-or a Proprietary Approval may be preceded
by a Provisional Covert Security Approval or a Provisional Proprietary
Approval.

erect: tat mn neue yp im mp erent mea gt

BAB Ween ca



14-00000.

50 ¢ ( 5 Wh
: ST \
— a nano MS
ao ¥
~ CLANDESTINE serge Rc Yee eae \ SECURITY

CSI NO. 10-5

INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5 9 September 1963

es
{, Unless otherwise designated, by the Office of Security, investigative data
in elther Operational Approvil or Covert Security Approval cases Involving
aliens may be shown to proper offices of the division and may, if deemed
necessary by the division, be forwarded to the fleld, The dispatch or cable
in such cases will be coordinated with the Counter Intelligence Stalf and
the Office of Security. No investigative data will be transmitted or dis-
closed to other than Agency staff officials without the specific prior ap-
Proval of the Office of Security. The need-to-know principle will be applied
strictly in such cases, No investigative data regarding United States cit-
ere izens Will be transmitted to.the field without the specific prior approval of
the Counter Intelligence Staff and the Director of Security and subsequent
5 to such approval without coordination with-the Office of Security on the dis-
patch or cable involved. :

COVERT SECURITY APPROVALS FOR LIAISON WITH UNITED STATES
OFFICIALS

Requests for Covert Security Approvals for ear catt “Ry\officials, wheth-
er such officials are in the United States or abrogaywillighiihsmitted directly
to the Office of Security. Each request Sill be! Specifically Wadi

2 icated as are-
quest for a Covert Securit Rroy3l'for Liaison; ‘The request shall be accom-
panied by all available biog: ¢ {nifdrmation, to include-whgrever possible in
a cases of civilian employees of United States Government agencies the name,
date and place of birth, the employing agency, and the position and assignment
of the persén involved. In casés iriyolving-militafy personnel the minimum blo-
graphic information required shall, consist of the name, date and place of birth,
: Tank and serial number, and the parent service. Ia each case the details of the
ay ° Maison with the individual must be set forth.

7, SERVANTS OF AGENCY EMPLOYEES

Requests to headquarters for appropriate checks on domestic personnel em-
ployed in the homes of Agency employees overseas shall be forwarded by the
Tequester to the Office of Security accompanied by all available biographical
information and the results of overseas investigations.

Saami tania bine cane iene acta een tite, crete ae

i

C . EMPLOYEES OF OTHER U.S. GOVERNMENT AGENCIES

Proper clearance of staff or contract employees (including Indigenous em-
ies ployees) of other U.S. Government agencies for operational use includes

notification to and approval by the employee’s parent agency in Washington.
Requests for clearance ‘iil ba forwarded to the Chief, Counter Intelligence
Staff, Attention: CI/Liaison. Clearance will not be given until thé aoproval
4 sf the parent agency has teen obtained. If, after such approval 13 obtsined,
1 fs decided that the employee will not be used as requested, or upon term
nation of use, CI/Llatson will be notified so that the smployee’s parent agency
may ba advised, ee

a

9. EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS OF FOREIGN SERVICES
: Requests for searches of the indices of other United AN agencies or thes

: Oifice of Security, or investigation of ne icials of foreign
- oan

rere te reine ty.0t01teatmteh Nw eplmeenremere

see nT

es wees soastte



14-00000_

CLANDESTINE SERVICES RW a
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5

- EM) CSI NO. 10-5 >

SECURITY !
L 19 September 1963 |

7 wee a
intelligence services with whom Agency employees maintain liaison, shall be
forwarded by the requester to the Counter Intelligence Staff for processing to sot
the Office of Security. Such requests shall be transmitted with complete

results cf fleld traces, all available biographical information, and a state-

ment as to the service which the subject represents. |

. 10, NOTIFICATION OF TERMINATION OR DISCONTINUANCE OF COVERT
. : SECURITY APPROVALS OR PROPRIETARY APPROVALS’ :

oO

The Otfice of Secitrity shall be promiptly' advised by the requester of the-dis-
continuance of interest in or termination of emplogwfehNiy use of a person
‘on whom a Covert Security Approval or Proprietaty ‘Approval has been re-

quested or granted, ws
11, SPECIAL SERVICES ean D t
BA ee \ 3
Lo, & Requestetor Covert Nehecks: and Spectal tngulrtes will be transraitted H

to the Office of Security thr

quest shall Indicate the rea

tion required, and shall cont: ‘available background and/or biographical

Meter information concerning the subject, ont ~

‘Ue Counter Intelligence Staff, Each re-

by In the case of Special Inquirfes; the.request should ‘also inascate
be the most plausible type of cover (i. €., general Government or com-
mercial) to bé employed ‘duting the inquiry and eny other information which
would provide guidance as to the conduct of the investigation.

12, DOUBLE AGENTS i

i
‘The operational decision authorizing the doubling of an agent of a foreign 1
power will be coordinated with the Counter Intelligence Staff even though no i
Operatioral Approval or Provisional Operational Approval is required. re) ;

J |

13. DEFECTION AND RECRUITMENT IN PLACE

No attempt to defect or recruit in place (a) a member of the Communist Party
or (b) a government official of a denied areg country shall be made inthe "7
United States without prior coordination with the Counter Intelligence Staff

Which will immediately inform the Director of Security and such other United 8) \
States agencies as may be appropriate, = H

“cs Righard Helms
puty Director (P!an3}

ws, whee ae vat ae



DOI 50-10

S OPERATIONS-GENERAL
4 September 1973

Y . DDO INSTRUCTION
NO. 50-10

RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE OF CERTAIN
CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS

CSI 50-10, 13 July 1970

if Rescissi

1. GENERAL

a Elemental in the conduct of clandestine operations is the use of human

‘agents to accomplish the missions of the Operations Directorate. In gen-

‘eral, it is DDO policy to select agent assets with primary regard to the

agents’ abilities, target access, and security, and with few restrictions as

no . to their origins, professions or status as members of particular groups. The

= - basic: rule is that. any consenting adult may be used by. the. Operations

. Directorate. There are, however, certain sensitive categories of individuals

: ‘or groups whose operational use by thé Operations Directorate is prohibited

Cc 7 or in some way’ restricted for reasons’ not necessarily. related to security
considerations.

b, These prohibitions or restrictions stem from one of the following:

(1) The Agency has been directed by .U.S. Governing tal, authority to
restrict or avoid the operational use of a.particula? category, of in-
dividuals. ‘

(2) The Agency has entered into a special xréstrictive agreement with an
organization, government, corporation, or official respoisible for a

a category of individuals
(3) The Director or the Députy” Director -for Operations has imposed
restrictions on the operational use of acertain category of individuals

due to the extreme risk or sensitivity OF such exploitation.

2. PURPOSE

The purpose

f this instruction is to’ set forth the prohibitions and policy

)priate, reference has

more: detailed guidance

special approval proc.

alter in any way the
bee and DOLF 105,

ipersede or
contained in DOL



DOI 50-10 , B
DDO INSTRUCTIO:’ QBERATIONS. GENERAL *
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973
ie Bi
3. DEFINITIONS

Within the context of this instruction, the definitions listed below will apply.

Special note must be taken of the fact that the key term: “operational use” .
employed throughout this instruction has been defined in the most succinct 7 B
manner consistent with clarity. It has not. been feasible, However, to. cover in . .
a definition the entire scope of possible variations in operational circumstances
which may be encountered in DDO activities. The definition of “operational
use” is intended to provide guidance for the majority of cases, and must be
employed with responsible operational judgment. Issues involving a deter-
mination of “operational use” which cannot be resolved with reasonable as-
surance by the responsible operating components will be referred to. the
Deputy Director for Operations for decision.

a. Operational Use
Operational use is interpreted to mean the recruitment, utilization,
ing of any individual or group for DDO. purposes on either a witting or :
unwitting basis by or on the'behalf of an element of the Operations Direc- fe
torate, Utilization is madé of an individual’ or group whenever that in- )
dividual oF group, responding to the direction or solicitation of a DDO
element, provides information, performs services, provides cover, or supplies
financial, material, or other support necessary fotthe accomplishment of
DDO operational objectives either difectly or indirectly, to or for an ele-
shent of the Operations Directorate,

b. DDO Element
Any person or groufwho or which is responsible to, owned or controlled
either directly or indirectly by the Operations Directorate. Included under
this definition are employees yor. members of Agency proprietary mech-
anisms. Ne

my
Ww

©. Operational Contact
y association having as its purpose the initiation or furtherance of DDO
operations.

4. RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE

ns on the operational use of individuals
cover twenty five separate ca
detail in parageaphs 5

(es at Operational Use is Prohibited (see paragraph 5):

a and trainees of ft ACTION] CF

tegories as outlined below

‘ough 8 of this instruction:

>
3
=



14-90000..

/
\ . Ay DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 8 4 September 1973
: * al 130)
(c) Officials or employees of the|
(A) Officials,~employees, or grantees of the )??
(ue (e) Employees offU'S. private detéctive investigative agencies (% ?
(2) Operational Use Requires Special Extra-Agency Concurrence (see
paragraph 6): - Ane ApPLOVIE OF sA/ADD0. - 7
(a) Employees of other U.S. Gov ;
(b) DDO agents or assets in
(c) Agents and human. sources of foreign intelligence

(d) Citizens (or persons documented as citizens) of 2?

“ (e)

(f) :
(3) Operational Use Requires Special Approval bj-the DDO (see para-—
ser? or oath, Graph. Blige ae: sorts pees corer wiatseh gee
rs

re > (b) ‘employees; -
(c) Individuals encased 4
(4)
(e)

yy)
~~»

(£) Staff members or officials of Red Cross societies;
(g) Officials of the Vatican State;

(hy

(i)

(x)
(4) Operational Use Requires Approval by Chief of Area Division (See
para: 8): pe

ien residents
.S." citizen’ delecatesor emnlacens

: : oy Jeementnis =
ob, Ope ho.comes under more than one type of
restriction ‘will be controlled by the highest type of +e

aan in his particular case.



14-00000

DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION \\° OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 Cee 4 September 1973

5. OPERATIONAL USE PROHIBIZED

a. Members and)Trainees of seriog

(1) It is Agengy policy that members and; IN}will not be
used in any capacity, with or without remuneration, by the Agency
or by organizations under its jurisdiction, (The term “members offAC- @ 7
<_ TIONS will be understood to mean anyone employed by or associated
‘with JACTION except trainees.) @. GF ay
(2) It is Ngéncy policy that former fnembers of ACTION) may be em-
ployed or used by the Agency or by Organizations under its jurisdiction
only in accordance with the following: ry
(a) Except as stated in (b) below, a former {member of ACTION)
may be employed or used operationally ‘by any element of the
Agency only if a period of five full yéars has ‘elapsed since his
separation from {ACTIO! 4
{b) An Agency-contolléd org: imay hire a former.member of .
CG [Action but only, for duties related to the overt, purposes of such
Dganizdtion, ia period of at least twenty-four months ye elapsed”
‘since his separation from [ACTION]. 44 — ee. ae
(c) ‘The employment or-use,of a former member. of far’ TION| under.
the provisions of subparagraph-(a) or (b) above must have the
specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations.

(3) Former ffainees whole ACTION service included du etal lover-
seas ere subject to she rules ‘governing employment oF use of ore

4% Leresber of ACTION] subparagraph (2) above), Foimer tine
id not serve at any
service did not include daty@r tr tulag overseas may be employed or
used operationally by DDO 'tlements“provided the specific prior ap-
provel of the Deputy Djrgctor for Operations is obtained.

(4) A former Goenber of trdidee of ACTION, whose employment ‘or ‘use
is permitted by subparagraph (2) or (3) above may nat be assigned
to or used in a country for which he, had been: feng to which
he had been: assigned while ‘with fAOTIO}

(8) Information may be received by the Domestfe, Collection. Division

2 from private corporations and other organizations employing former _
: 4a ‘facts personnel, notwithstanding the fact that the information may
iginat&with forme i i.

any. direct. brie
‘rS.- or. trainees oF

a} The specific prior approval of the Depi
must be obtained.

ieeatbb for Operations: =

<fvcrnet $e aerION and “hosfACTION ey

LEFT peamntmenesceuoabtacah ine mnriyaiceanim nouns reat vem seumencar inate

{
i



DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION

OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10

4 September 1973

in 7 A g
(b) IE the individ is.a.formeSmember Of ACTION] or a former
97 (aainee whose AGTION servite included duty or training over-
“seas, five years must-have elapsed since his separation from
wal JACTIONS 99 ¢

If contact with a former[ACTION_membgr fr. a formef trainee fvhose
44 {ACTION service, included duty (or traisfingZoverseas shouldbe un-
Avoidable during the required five’ year-waiting period, the Depiity
Director for Operations may request an exceptign\frdin the Director
of Central Intelligence, Among the possible’ reason for’such. unavoid-
able contact would be the designation” of a fornafjinember or trainee

€4._ as the liaison officer to the Domestic Collection Division.

y an

DDO policy prohibits the' operational use of individuals who are receiving
ge under certain provisions (see below) of the

iB as, amended,
44 commonly known as the [Falling gynder this probibi- =
tion, areStichers: esearch scholars, lecturers "and students fincluding) C2
| “J who have. been selésted 10 rective “-~
a4 “Jappointed

by the President of the United States. Uperationat use or suct individuals

is prohibited only during the period when they are participating in the

%4 : |programg This prohibition specifically

“Goes not apply to the several other, categories offgrantéesJsupported by
other provisions of the such

“Jwho
do not come under the aégis of the oF
“(see 74, below). eF
©. Officials or Employees of th
DDO policy. prohibits the operational ugg of the: officials or employees |

of the Contacts with such
individtals which’ DDO officers afe obliged to make in their cover ca-
pacities must be limited to their. cover assignments. 9

d. Officials, Employees, orfGrantees: of the

DDO policy pio!

ts the operational ‘use ‘off'grantees of the:

persons. actively “parti
and’ controlled by’ arly. of vise Ad

‘i onal’ Se made of the StHicials OF eraployees. of these-or
tions. In general, however, there is no _restfi¢hibh. on aionopi
tacts or consultations with such individua

Ks mot

sine tc enemies TR HT ESPON IRIE THEE ER


14-00000,

¢

DOI 80-10 )

DDO INSTRUCTIONS

OPERATIONS-GENERAL 4
NO, 50-10 a

4 September 1973
‘

\\ ae
e. Employees of US. Private Detective Investigative Agencies)
DDO policy prOhibits the operational use either in the United States
oe ceas of the employees of any US-owned or -controlled éprivate. 7?
Getective investigative agency! This policy does not apply to operational

use of employees of orggnizations which are engaged strictly in commercial )
La . : .

6. EXTRA-AGENCY CONCURRENCE REQUIRED 5
17

a. Employees of Other U.S. Government Agencies,
Approval for th operator uso of sal or Sutact (including foreign) >
employees fof other U.S. Governin at agencies{ will he granted only in
cases where thefemployee’s parent agency in Washingt6q has been notified
of and has approved of the-intended operational use in accordance with
the provisions of DOI 10-5. ag

b.[DDO Agents or Assets in Paice et
Th accordance with the agreement existing, between the

and’ this Agency} the restrictions listed -helow apply, to
Jthe operational activity of the Operations Directoralé; conducted. in ‘the G4
‘Coordination. with] of appropriate’ iiformation on
DDO operational activities in Js the responsibility of
the Chief, Liaison Group, Operations Staff. .
(1)_ All investigations by: this, Agency off, ad
equire the prioycoricurrence of thd, [In this context, the

tern f'investigation” rfiéans ; systematic and direct inquiries or pro-

cedus8s- (such as physical of technical surveillances or neighborhood

i fs] aimed at sen information concerning an individual's >

eer ACUI

acti or background;)“investigation"{ does not include the ac-
ceptance or the developrfent ‘of information through social contacts
or contacts normally made by Agency officials in discharging their
cover functions. !
(2). Any approach. in the United State{by a DDO clement for recruit. ed >
ment, i *
requires the prior concurrence of
(3) Any planned meeting in the United State¥Tor assessment and. social
development, betweerfa DDO clément and a foreign official of known 9
or presumed: interest €0 Earp DG jelemea fansite
requires that prior noti-

fication be provided to J

(4) Whenever domestic DDO operations. involve’ matters “pertaining
the ational security of the’ United Stata, appropsiate identification
of persons engaged in the operations in the United States will be

G2
_ SECRET



14-00000,

DOI 50-10

. DDO INSTRUCTION *~ . OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

provided In accordance with this policy, the following

categories DDO “assets will be identified to oF

¢ [ ___|who-come to th’ United States -for’ operational
purposes. ~

c. Agents and Human Sources of Foreign Intelligence et
| Eee aaa. eae

Theol == - ~ | has been established at head-
arters to provide for United States Intelligence Board (USIB) agencies.
Ge seal cor tc na ta
principal purpose of the is to register primacy of interest and
prevent. multiple F
It is USIB policy that no individual
es +. 5 Gegisteredl in the by’ong,USIB Ggency will be used for operational pur-
‘poses by any other USIB Avene] without the specifi¢’ prior approval of the
- : Gt [Ifa DDO element desires to arrange the
Or) GL - - will con-
Sy tact the gency having TiG]determine whether there is a
. willingness. to discuss: this’ matter:

d.fGitizens (or Persons Documented as Citizens) of | leg

a ees: - 4
(1) ‘The operational use offéitizeis] of the above-named a

is restricted
C by agreements with theftitelligence ‘or security authorities of such @@
__ which require the prior approval of the Eforoprite 7
authority. Such approval will be obtained at the earlst feasible stage
of development through the| — -

a ae

(2) The above restriction also governs the Ese of documentation
representing DDO staif or agent personnel as
Approval for the fie -of such documentation will
be sought througt ame channels_as stated in subparagraph (1)
above. 2 ge
(8) Authority to make operational use of the persons (¢ documentati.
described in the abovg, subparagraphs without obtaining the prior
1 approval ff the| ‘withorityy concemed may be granted only
| by the Deputy Director for Operation: by the Director.
|

i 7g SP
SECRET



DOL 50-10 9
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL .
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973
44 oe

5

“Tie operational use PF any citizer of Norway, West Germany or The 77 {|
|is, under” certain’ gonditions, contingent on prigr approval !
of the ational intelligence service concemed? These! Jare par.
ticularly Fensitive ip’ cases involving the operational use of, their PCa 9
whe are’ land who ate Gerving o i
flag] Eat case inyolvinlg’the proposed operational: sof a Toe
one’ of these’ Jill be reviewed by the Chief oF the|_ zee
Division in the: light OF the agreements existing between this Agency and
the national intelligence service, concerned. After weighing all of the
equities, the Chief of the|__ _ Divisiog will decide whether approval 'e)
is required [from the national intelligence’ Service conéemed. When re-
quized,: approvals for the .operational use of.:suel) individuals will be
obtained from the appropriate Pational- intelligenS2 serviced by the’ 99 i
[ Division. ates 4 a Bata
£ is oe

“The ‘operational yse of] _ Yregardless -offtheir ae
“who: ate Ferving! Kervi (eartvine thay aie

is, under certain conditions, subject

to provisions of the agreements “existing between this Agency. and. the

ational intelligence service ‘ebncemmed\ Each case involving the proposed

‘operational use of such! [will be zeviewed by the Chief

of the ‘Division or the Chief of the| Division, as ap-

propriate, in light of the {pertinent interservicg Jagreement After

weighing all of theequities, the Chief of the| Division or the i)
Chief of the Division will deteggine the course of action to

be taken with regard to fe national intel figence service (concemed.

7. APPROVAL BY THE DDO REQUIRED

Approval by the Deputy Director for Operations for the operational use D
of any individual who falls into one of the categories described in this.para- 7
graph ‘will be requested by memorandum. The individual's covert approval

status will be described in the memorandum to the Deputy- Director. for

Operations, together with a concise explanation of the intended nperational

use. (in connection with this paragragh cts by the Domestic Collection

Division_with individuals or firms do not require approval: by -the Depuity

Director for ‘Operations provided. they constitute*merely briefing ‘or de-

briefing for the purpose of obtaining information acquired by an individual

or representative of a firm in the course of his normal activities. If, however,

in any case the contact is on behaif of another element of the Operations

. a)

8
SECRET



14-00000

D (
ae : DOI 50-10
© Sh
o * DDO INSTRUCTION: ‘OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 - 4 September 1973

Directorate or another agency; or if an individual or firm will be requested
to perform an operational task or to deviate from his or its normal pattern
of activity; or if the activity, even though consistent. with the individual's
or firm’s normal pattern of activity, will take place because requested or

(ay * funded by the Dimestic ‘Collection Division; that case- will be- subject, to
- the requirement, for approval by.the Deputy. Director for Operatjons.),, eae
2
(see DOT 240-8) on

Mperational use of
requires prior approval by the Deputy Director for Operations whenever __

thera is dancer that such activity might serve in any way,
acti do hit are nat liettadto-Phi

: al "he op-
a erational use abroad of]
. media for non-U-S. audiené®y does iiot require approval by the Deputy
ey Director for’ Operations ‘evén though such ‘activities may haye some
Naeed . "unintended and unsolicited [fallout it
(2) ‘Approval by the Deputy Director for Operations is also required prior
to the operational. use of ee

whenever the individual is'a US.

citizen or when fihe involved is under “U.S. ownership

yr control. x

bf Employees
Iris DDO policy to: avoid operational use of employees of thé<

organization including indigenotis employees. Exceptional individual ease”

involving priority operational objectives will be considered on their merits.

“Prior approval by the Deputy Dixector for Operations will be required

in all cases. o4

c. Individuals[Engaged in) _Jisee DOT 50-18) 4
Ir dividuals ngaged iy Which in any wav have t
or seek to have an §
considered to be ia Sepaggte semgitive category. In view E
aspects of/~ “ZaivierS including the special r i
the| Act, approval by the Deputy Director
for Operations is required prior to the operational usefia a co
capacityJof any individual who is gaged in activities} 99

and who is located in or operating United S

fond
Q
oO
fae
=
ao

es).


14-00000

° - “|
‘ ° |
, ( SECRET ¢ |
DOL 50-10 i) |
|
DDO INSTRUCTION _ OPERATIONS-GENERAL mal
NO. 50-10 . 4 September 1973 i
5s. —
a

(see DOI 60-11) !
Ynor approval of the Director or the Deputy Director for Operations is -
required for operational contact in the United States with or operational

use of 2? iS) i

t controlIf, while in the United States, such individual is to be investigated, -
aol for recruitment, or contacted for operational Purposes(the prior £F
concurrence of _{will also be required in accordance with para-
graph 6.b, above. D
e ae
“IE DDO policy, that the operational use
[ | including those of its[Vavfous “‘mnain organs and of 77
at is of such sensitivity 28 to require
special consideration by the Deputy"Director for Operations. Jn, especially
“worthwhile cases whéréin operational use of a particular __individtal
is deemed essential for the accomplishment of the DDO. mission, approval
» May, be obtained. In'each case involving a non-U/Sq citizen assigned. in * _
the U.S. or a US. citizen wherever. assigned, =e apptoval of the
Deputy Director for Operations willabetequized.|\(See paragraph 8b.
regarding use of non-U.S. not assigned
vidual is to be
investigated, approached, for, xecruitment, or: ‘contactel for operational pur-
poses, ftbe prior concurrence'dt may also be required as outlined
in paragraph 6.b,, above. --~ of
£fStaff Members or Officials of Red Cross Societies oF
1 operational use of staff niembers or officials of the/faternational Red
Gross or its affiliated national Red Cross, Red Cresceni or other equivalent
eG Bonita requires special consideration and prior approval by the Deputy
irector for Operations. DDO elements should make every effoyt to avoid E
the operational use of staff members or officials offfted Cross societies, How-
ever, when especially high priority objectives are at stake and alternative )
agent assets are-not available; approval for the use of such individuals may
be granted by the Deputy Director for Operations.

Bits of the Vatican Seatal 77 9
Mperational contact with officials at the Vat an Stat be made only

with the prior «
use offVatiean off
Director for Operations.

hf
US. or foreign
pating in



14-00000.

s ¢

SS
DOI 50-10.

ay OPERATIONS-GENERAL

NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

. xe) : GG
‘tos _____._ fexcept certain! Lsée paragraph 5.b.,
ve) are considered to be in a separate sensitive category. Operational
use of such individuals while they are actively participating in| |
A requires speoial consideration A
Cc . 7 and approval by the Deputy Director for Operations prior to such use. In
; + + certain especially wotthwhile casgs gvherein the operstional use of a pai-
ticular “Jis considered essential to
the accomplishment of the DDO mission, the Deputy Director for Opera-
tions may grant approval. Memoranda requesting such approval will be
Cc forwarded through the Chief, Foreign Resources Division. In such cases the
Deputy Director for Operations will determing whether or not to seek the
concurrence f the Jai

i Members. of 7 _|@7
(1) It is U.S-Governiient policy that no federal agency shall provide:any

at.
This poligy =: =
applies to-all foreigit-as ‘well as domestic activities “off Such’ organiza: €F:**
~ tion) In compliance with the above proscription, ‘DDO Policy requires
‘thé most careful scrutiny of all-cases involving’ operational contact with
I The operational use of.any employee, wat
member or officidf'sii@h an organization requires prior approval by
the Deputy Director for Operations. The Deputy Director for Opera-
tions will determine whether. or:not to seek extra-Agency approval for
the conduct of such operations.
O (2) Operational use including cgyert_funding abroad off
4 land the personne! ‘Hereof is per-
“Shitied even if the organization is also funded by, jae:

“ oe :
icials or Employees of z @
© Operational. use of the. officials or employees. of the, <F
. . 7 ade prior approval of the Deputy. DisectOF for Opéhitions,
Conta with such individuals which DDO officers are obliged to make in
E : their cover. capacities.will not involve operational matters-uati! the:approval ~
t . af. the Deputy: Director for Operstions-has -been-secured.
xf 7
“Uperational- use ot or-opérational coritact with: members off f
_ while: they are on ent in the United States will not be ©
ade without the prigr approve! of the Deputy. DittNor for Operations,
= dae participants in programs hadlished Uy various
a

reign ‘countries iffcollaboration, with’ the. Department of State as a

end iam mcermanerar tery HT cm PERRET

——

SECRET



14-00000

:
; SECRET -
: ase |

aoe f DOI 50-10 D

DDO INSTRUCTION \ OPERATIONS-GENERAL .
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

a4

‘Such volunteers are sent to the IIS.

“Yer a period of
The name of thé Organization may vary by country,

8. OPERATIONAL USE REQUIRES APPROVAL BY CHIEF OF AREA D
DIVISION.

Operational use of any individual in the categories listed in.this paragraph :
is considered of such Sensitivity as to. require special consideration and ap- 2
Proval by the appropriate Area Division Chief. This authority may not be
delegated. The request for approval will be. by memorandum in which the
individual's covert approval status will be described, together with a concise
explanation of the intended operational use, a

f
ae
a{Citizensor Alien ed

I 50-19) J

‘The operational use ia who aig
been admitted for permanent-resiaence-or nave resided for a prolongé
period. in the U.S,, requirésjthé ‘prior: approval’ df the Chief of the Area
Division under whose jurisd{ction the iitended use is to. take ‘lara

= “b.[Non-U.S. ‘Citizen Delegates or Employees

l — i
‘The operationaluse of , H

yho aré-not assigned in the U.S. requires the prior ap-
proval of the Cet of the Area Division under whose jurisdiction the in-
tended use is to take place. ea

Members of the Communit, ')

(1) Within the context of this instruction/& member of the academic com-@?
munityTis defined os |

Person
associated with + OF )
are not considered to be members of the| |communityy

(2) Operational use ‘of fhrembers of the community, especial yet

those cases wherein"@h individual is to be made witting of Agency
interest, will be on a highly selective basis. Each case will be examined.
to ascertain its essentiality to the DDO sission in terms of the price
Of possible disclosure, and to ensure that proper security procedures
can be observed. When it has been dstenfdilethat the operational
use of apfiecsber of the (or nity af defined above: is
“OF

oO
rad
an



A

NO. 50-10

(3)

¢

)

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL:
4 Septeniber: 1973

operationally feasible’and without suitable alternative, prior approval
in the following cases will be obtained as indicated below: a

(a) Any US. citizen who is a fmember of th it
and who is associated in any Way with any, _ — xe

(b) “Any fion-US. citizen who is a member of thé lcommunity’ C7
and Who is associated in any way with any, ina o,
I
which is located stb Be Unted SRE or abroad. PIO
If the Tadividual is located in the United SHIT, approval will be reffered
quested by memorandum to the Chief, Foreign Resources Division.
The memorandum will include a statement that the individual is, or
is not, a DCD asset or contact, and in the event he is will include
the concurrence of the Chief, Domestic Collection, Division. If the in-
dividual is located outside the United States, approval will'be requested
by memorandum to the Chief of the Area Division'who ‘has jurisdiction 7
over the area concerned.) Opératiofial use o embers of.the’! @
community] wh6rare' not associatedia any say with ee
is -also“Con=
sidered sensitive. The opérational use of such ee requires
‘the approval of the Chief, of the’Area Division In any. case involving
‘a well known ‘person or “having’ special security implications, the
Division Chief to whom the request is referred under the above pro-
visions will consult with the DDO and obtain the latter's approval.
The provisions of paragraph (2) do not apply to, Domestic Collection
Division contacts jvith members of the! ‘cémmunity] but such,
contacts are subject to the following regyirements:
(a) If afmember of the comminity]would be asked to per-
form an operational task or to alter his Hormal pattern of activity
in order to serve Agency purposes, priot approval of the Chief,
Domestic Collection Division is required. Additionally, if such an
individual will-be in a foreign area, the concurrence of the Chief
of the Area Division concerned will be obtained.
(b) Prio# concurrence will be obtained from’ the’ appropriate Area
Division’ Chief if an individual is tobe utilized in a politically
sensitive area where his ‘presence or activities could potentially
embarrass: the interests of the ‘U.S. Government.
(¢) The teqitirements of paragraph ‘8,0. apply. if’a. citizen’ or alien”
resident of the United States would be used in a denied area. ~
At the end ofeach ‘calendar’ year, Chiefs of Divisions will submit a
report to the Deputy Director for Operations “(via Chief, Foreign
Resources Division) on the number of individuals\reeruited from the

mmevsamerereteeree emt tenner TN



14-00000

C SECRET ¢

DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION
NO. 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL
4 September 1973

= Ga
comanit duog that year. This audit will permit the DDO
“wWkeep abreast of rhajdk quantitative changes in the number of po-
tentially sensitive operational cases in each Division.

(5) It should be noted that the provisions of this paragraph do not apply
~ to DDO employeesfivho wish to (Approval for
such activity will Beobtained in accordance with {HS provisions of

HR 10-7.

9. INDIVIDUAL CHANGES OF STATUS oR CATEGORY

When an individual undergoes a chan; af status which places him in one of
the restricted categories described-aboe, or transfers him from one category
to another, his operational us user 3 ‘ebatinued operational use is contingent upon
approval or reapproval ase ibed for his new status.

10. INTERPRETATION OR MODIFICATION OF RESTRICTIONS.

Certain of the policy restrictions described in this’ instruction are subject to
» interpretation, extension or modification’ by the. Deputy Director fer Opera-
tions depending on the. conditions: and ‘the atmosphere for DDO ‘operations
~ at any particular time. Especially when dealing on the edges of policy rulings
and within the guidelines set forth herein, particular heed should be pai
the price of disclosure, including careful consideration of the: sensit
the individuals involved. When there is any. doubt concerning the application
of these restrictions, guidance should be obtained from the Deputy Director
for Operations.
Q,

William, Nelson.
Deputy Director for Operations

wa



14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
GIA HISTORIGRL B:

. ; , : aw
: Acar)

; HQ

eS)

ORR
eee

ANS

INSTRUCTION SHEET 733

jot

exruanation

wR 20| 441 | 2/6/73 | HR 20 | 134° [2/23/73 |Paragraph 53 is revised

125- 125- to redefine. catezorigs of
aT | 3/9/64 127, [2/23/73 |gontract personnel, Minor

revisions are made to up-
date the paragraph.

128 | 6/16/70 128 - Former paregraph 5k, Pro-
131 2/23/73 |curement Contracts for the
Services of Individuals,
is Fenumbered 55 with no
change in text.

New paragraph’ 54, Agents, |
is added to establish
authorities and responsi-
pilities forthe manage-
ment of agerits and to

EN 204
129

Rescinded.

described above.

DISTRIBUTION: 4B

COO4L15y



14-00000

j

ON’ ONTENTS Contiqued

“ai ar
a © Paragraph ina

n. MANDATORY RETIREMENT FOR AGE

. 0. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FUND . bo
P. PERIOD OF SERVICE FOR ANNUITIES ..
9. COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES ........
+f. RECALL OF RETIRED PARTICIPANT *

: § REEMPLOYMENT OF RETIRED PARTICIPANT
t, MONIES ..

u, LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF RETIREMENTS |

5h. PERSONNEL DETAILED TO OR FROM THE AGENCY ...... 119

32 CONSULTANTS aoeogaoan
. code 33. CONTRACT. PERSONNEL Gso08c0
7 54, GE ea
0 55, PROCUREMENT CONTRACTS FOR THE SERVICES OF
. INDIVIDUALS  .; Wie ao + 130

56-59. | Reserved : .

: rn SECTION 1x: RECORD eS REPORTS
. 2 6h.) “rensonmét, nggggss' ano neronrs é :

© fe

Figure et Title Page H
Figure AWAY age i
1 |GUISHED INTELLIGENCE choss . bole 41 |
2 DISMNGUISHED INTELLIGENCE MEDAL . 1 |
3 INTELLIGENCE.STAR 941 i
4. INTELLIGENCE-MEDAL OF MERIT. oat i
4a, CAREER INTELLIGENCE MEDAL B00 941 4
5. EXCEPTIONAL SERVICE MEDALLION + OL i
6. RETIREMENT MEDALLION ...... sree O40 !
"1 FORM 600, RECOMMENDATION FOR HONOR OR MERIT y
AWARD |...., : oe eonnocioe + 98
i & . Reserved . et
b 8. “OFFICIAL SEAL OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 1002.7 =
10,” “AGENCY FLAG... eee ae 1002 -~ .
M. AGENCY PLAQUE «>... we 1002
y 12, TABLE OF PERMISSIBLE CHANGES IN ENROLLMENT OF -
j EMPLOYEES 630.022. ...0.0s. = 108
. Attachm: pees seene  TEitle ose enciey BBBE
foes 1 BIOGRAPHIC DATA TO BE SUBMITTED BY AN EMPLOYEE

2 ~ UNDER COVER“ON AN INTENDED SPOUSE...
: 2

none [ ei | i

FORM 3154, SERVICE ABROAD Zt ENT

2
©
fot
pany
aa
oF



14-00000

PERSONNEL i “HR 20-53
1°53. CONTRACT PER: i) ‘parears <a policy, authorities,
and responsibilities conce! le managel a meract personnel. It does

not apply to consultants (see HR TN sian services acquired through
| industrial or procurement contrat iss), to personnel employed by Hl
proprietary projects (see HR 230-8) Dents (see HR 20-54).

a. GENERAL. There are two categories of contract personnel: contract employees

and Independent contractors.

(1) CONTRACT EMPLOYEES. Although they are not appointed employees,
contract employees are employees of the US. Government. They have all
the rights and privileges granted by law to U.S. Government employees

, : . . tn accordance with thelr citizenship: status as well as those rights and

privileges specified, in thelr contracts. They work under supervised con-

58 + ditions and are compensated on a: salary.basis. Contract employees are i

grouped Into three categories:

(a) Career Associate (Type ) Contract Employees: Contract employees
who perform duties, usually of a clandestine and operational nature,
on'a career basis, They are normally required to demonstrate their i
operational value to the Agency for not lesqthan three years, in the \
case of US. citizens, or not less thap_tiv , In the case of foreign 1
nationals, to quality for career,asspciata\Atytuy. When it 1s necessary

- ap for a carger associate to have tho staft-type atcess to. an Agency instal-

lation or clasitigd gtdfinatiosy ne Ynust meet the same security ap-
ny proval eri att employee,
. (>) Internal (BAD es sSptract Employees: Contract employees, engaged i
vo” tor a specitieperiod of time, who normally: work inside Agency instal 5
l lations. They*are requlred to meet the same security approval criteria
. to as staft ‘employees, but are ‘permitted only such access to classitied
| information as is authasized in thelr security approval and Is required
| ~. 4m the performance 'ot thelr duties. “-

(@) External (Type E) Contraet Employees: Contract employees, efigaged
for a specific period of time, who normally work outside Agency in-
stallations. They are not required to meet the same security approval

| eriterla as staff employees and are not permitted the same access

to Agency installations as staff employees or internal contract em- |
ployees. They are permitted only such access to classified information \
as Is authorized In their security approval and is required in the per- |
|
i

formance of thelr dutles.

‘ (2) INDEPENDENT CONT) iS are not employees of the U.S. Government.
‘They are self-employ: duals who are engaged under contract to {

. provide specific services. They receive only the compensation and benefits
considered necessary to retain their services, In the Operations Directorate,
thelr duties are normally lmited to historical-research and analysis and.
to the direction, utilization, spotting, or support of agents. They normally’.
do “hot éatry out espionage or covert action tasks. (Care must be taken “|
to distinguish between Independent contractors, defined herein, and agents, ~

. defined in HR 20-54.) H

i
>: POLICY Sang

“GY Contrect personnel may be engaged when,
{; Ma) Ib 1s necessary to provide fot ope;
not be-met through the use

cannot meet all re
123 February ©

nr ws
a eBi0

0004156 ™~ :


14-00000

PERSONNEL,

HR 20-5362) we

u fr (@) there is a requirement to,

y ineet opsidtlonal needs without obligating
: the Agency to long-term empjoyments :

(a) the nature of the misvor Yor which the individual is being engaged
precludes his being subject to administrative control oF working spe-
cifically defined hours;

(e) the individual's primary employer or Interest 1s not the Agency and
the mmovices the Agency desires trom him are supplementary to his

ay ‘ primary interest or vocation; oF
5 (2) there 4s a long term requirement for personal services which, for oF
E +. @ Ueretional’or security reasons, cannot be performed by Agency statt
26 : , personnel, . 7 .

* by ‘The engaging of contract personnel 1s subject to the following restrictio
. : (a) New contracts, contract renewals, and contract amendments for in-
Ueidusls under current or anticipated nonotficial cover, must have
5 Silor approval of the appropriate component of the Operations Direc-
torate.

(e) Contract personnel may be engaged only for approved activities for
5 hich funds have been made avallable. Funds for these activities wil
7 oO «- Pe'budgeted annually and, will not exceed [mitatlons imposed by the

. head of the component concerned. (a\\ .
. om
(c) Contract employees are sublect to-@irestonttenmanpower controls and
Gellings established by the Direétor of ‘Central Intelligence during the
sv annyal budgetary revlegSgycle. ‘Independent contractors are, excluded

from eelling-eonbiolse Noa AQ A
id) Contracts wifCshenever possible, be. wi itteh, and ‘signed, However,
‘when speclal:Segurity “or operational fac zs prevent’ the execution of
° 2 formal writgen-contract, a’ memorandum in Ieu of such & contract
may be prepared tg adeuaiegy pod éommitments and obligations of the
Agency and the inc AS ww) .
be Hl (d) Approprlate securlty\or operational approvals will be obtained before
oo any contractual comraitments are made to individuals and before any
. disclosure to them of classified information.
ae . (f) No commitments relating to the use of the services of an employee of
f G mother Government agency will be made without prior approval of
a the Operating Official or Head of Independent Office concerned and
the Director of Personnel.

(g)-No commitments will be made to contract personnel that appointed

a

r

.

i
i
i
i
i
|
i

employment status will be offered at the conclusion of or during any.

period of thelr contract service, without prior approval of the Director
_..of Personnel and the Director.of Security.
(a) Contract employees must meet Agency medical standards prior. to the
. "approval and authentication of thelr contracts. A psychologiea! assess:
- . ~ nent and psychiatric evaluation of those contract employees. tn whoo:
the Agency may have more than a: short-term interest will be carri
out whenever feasible. "7 oar fetes

JS * > y Tadepetident: contractors. are: n:
ce) medical standards; however:

which obligates the Age

“a satistactory medi

uw logical: assessme;
%

i required to meet Agency
‘act contatas any provision”
‘medical or disability “benefits. ~

ination Is required, to Include a psycho
Ubltric, Rion, iC necessary: 2°"
A Os vised: 23 February 1973 (733:*



14-( eed

DNNEL ; PERSONNEL ES ef a
enviiir
dligating : c (J) Contract personnel candid: hose’ Soin Wi with the Agency -
| cannot be acknowledged mi ‘gvijed-adequate cover and an ap-
propriate cover legend. This }6q jat legal entitlements and other D0
ones contractual benefits be provided and tax Uabilitles satisfied In a .
CG manner consistent with the character of the cover and cover legend.
(k) Although staff employees are expected to sever active connections with 2
ney and the Agency upon retirement, there may be instances in which continua- i
tie tion In service under contract after retirement is necessary or clearly :
i in the best interests of the Agency. The use of retired annultants under 7
. for op- . _. contract Is governed by policies specified in HR 0-13. oa
rey stalt Q) Not used, .
Gm) Coritracts providing for baslc-compensation af-a rate which, If pro- . . os =o
wrictlons: jected on an annual basis, would exceed the maximum annual rate
+ for ine for a GS-15, will not be executed without the approval of the Director
Ratnare of Central Intelligence. All such requests will be forwarded through :
as Direc- the Director of Personnel for his recommendation. . . bel

| c, RESPONSIBILITIES
wties for (1) THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL will

ates will (a) formulate contract personnel management policies and procedures and. -

d-by the provide guidance in improving the effectiveness and flexibility of the '
“| Program within the Agency;

trols and * (>) monitor contract personnel management to assuxe consistency among: 7

uring the the directorates while giving due regard na ittering needs. 2 Bees
excluded (c). provide @ repository: for. sensitive TAIN atlon using the ene

A Guldelines for special files set forth ta ee 4);

However, | (d) approve and authenticate eoafse H Fc

cution of (e) monitor contract empldyze' ‘telling sutnoraataty established by the

. contract Director of Centfa}intelligences e704 ‘

vas of the (f) -matatain computer-bosed records on contract ‘personnel and ensure

i currency and accufacy of-Input and output data.
sed before (2) THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY" will
(a) establish standards and\ptocédures for granting security approvals
which meet the ‘agency’ contract personnel requirements;

aployer of () grant security approvals for the use of contfact personnel Including
sproval of

efore any

their access to classified information and Agency installations;

armed and (c) ensure currency and adequacy of security approvals by making Periodle
5 reviews and reevaluation; 6
appointed (d) provide’ repository for all security tntormation pertaining to con- 7
uring ery tract personnel.
2 Director
(3) THE CHIEF, CENTRAL COVER STAFF will
(a) provide cover and cover legends for cg wa whose em-
dor to the ployment by the Agency cannot ek dged; “
eee (b) ensure currency of such MANN Mids by making periodic. 7 .
reviews and reevaluations; |
(c) ensure that the me! KOEN ey I ements and con- :
tractual benefits = ie” ed KY jonsistent with as- -
et Agency signed cover an gends. *
rprovision 4) THE DIRECTOR OF NE en + . ’
7 benetizs, SCTOR OF INXED: CALS ~ .
‘a paycho- (@) establish standards and Eat ures) SP necteat and psychiatric evalua- H
uw tons and for Derenalogieah asAtment of contract personnel; E i
1973 (133) —Revised: 23 February 1973 (733) wow vat . i
scenes et by 002230 Ss, ° |
wee Loy 5 |
|



14-00000

HR 20-54 \e\ oer ER ERSONN,
FF (b) make pertodle reviews and medjedf Yeevaluations.of contract personnel

when requested to do so. A\e

(5) DEPUTY DIRECTORS AND HEADS‘O¥ INDEPENDENT OFFICES will en-
sure directorate uniformity of contract administration in matters such as
qualifications determination, compensation, allowances and other benefits,
personnel record keeping, systematic cost accounting, performance evalua-
tlons, cover determination and training, terminations, and security and
medical approval processing requirements.

(6) THE DIRECTOR OF TRAINING will provide appropriate training courses
and facilities for contract personnel.

(1) THE DIRECTOR OF FINANCE will
(a) administer pay, leave, and allowance entitlements of contract person-

nel consistent with contract provisions and, requirements;

(6) 1a cocrdinaticn with the Covert TaxR ister a secure systeni-”

for the settlement of Federal lneiuip? jal security tax ob-
ND
a. AUTHORITIES

Ugations a
onlay
WAN 5 ‘
(1) The Director of Ps Deputy, and the Special Contracting Officer

(Chief, Contract PelSokinél Division) are, upon request of a Deputy Director,
an Operating Official, Bead ot Independent Office, or 2 duly appointed
. Contract. approving pifictr, authorized to. execute, amend, renew, and

|
|
terminaté contracts with ‘contract personnel.
|
|
|
{

Me (2) Deputy Directors and Heads of- Independent Offices may designate Con-
. tract Approving .Officers to approve contracts when payment is’ to be
ime charged against finds under thelr control i ; :
ORG (3) Authority delegated to’Chiefs of Station and Basé Under the provislons of
FR 20-31 is subject to the following limitations:
: (a) All contracts executed in. the feld will be subject to review by the
Director of Personnel.
(b) Deputy Directors may limit the exercise of the authority granted to
chiefs of field installations to any extent they deem desirable.
(c) Contracts prepared by headquarters will be amended only by, or with
the prior approval of, headquarters. Contracts executed in the field
may be amended In the fleld, but all such amendments must be for-
warded to headquarters.
(4) All contracts written under the authority of this regulation will be subject
to legal review by the General Counsel under such conditions as he may
prescribe,

¢, PROCEDURES. Requirements and procedures concerning personnel records,
personnel actions, security approvals, cover, cover salary, medical evaluations,
compensation, qualifications determination, training, and processing of con
tracts, are set forth in HHB 20-12,

53. AGENTS. This paragraph sets forth policy, responsibilities, and authorities
concerning thi

ning the engagement and the management of agents.
a, GENERAL, Agents ore _witting manpower assets, unique to the Operations
Di

torate, who catry Out esplonage and,covert action tasks on, behalf of the
sy. Agents are not employees of thé U.S.’Government. They are self-
empioyed Individuals whose services may be acquired 01 inated-at any
time. Care must be taken to distinguish between agent herein, and
indpendent contractors, defined in HR 20-520 24

OWNS

12a OM Revised: 23 Febyuary 1973 (733)
® vu Ny

?PERSONNEL

vb. POLICY

(2) Agents cannot !

Govel
with

rament em:
normal per

(a) Initlal appr
commitmen!
an agent. |

(b) Agents will:
and a mant
and control
) No com

(c)

cy)

te)

wo

“@) at

pensati
~ atarat
maximt *
This lc
does no,
(2) No com
fits, wit
denefiti
normal,
(3) No com”
will be~
-mitmei.
sOperat
+= Beourit—
Engagemet
controls.”
In general
ards, Howt
to provide!
be carried,
Agents wh
the United
their asso
tax Uabllit
20:35) |
The vse of,
will be go"

commitmi

Formal Agreet

@

+, Fthose east

(c) Anagent

A Formal!
an authoi{..
tated whi
A Memors~
iment, sigt~
agent. Ust

agent's sit

randum &

Revised: 23 Februg



PERSONNEL

>. POLICY
(1) Agents cannot claim rights and privileges normally granted to U.S.

Government employees; therefore, they will not be managed in accordance

with normal personnel and administrative standards.

(a) Initial approval of the Counter Intelligence Staff 1s required before any

commitments are made or any classified information ts disclosed to
an agent.

(») Agents will receive compensation, benefits, and emoluments in amounts
and a manner deemed best by the Operations Directorate to motivate
and control them, subject to the following limitations:

(1) No commitment may be made to an agent to provide gross com-
pensation (basic compensation, additional compensation, fees, etc.)
at.a rate which, if projected on an annual basis, would exceed the
‘maximum rate for a GS-15, without prior approval of-the Director. -
Thig Umitation applies only to payments made by the Agency. It

"does not apply to bons fide cover Indome-
(2) No commitment may be made to an agent to provide special bene-
fits, without the prior approval of the Director of Personnel. Special
benefits are Agency, obligations other than basic compensation,
normal overseas cost of living payments, and trayellor operational
expenses. ut a
(3) No commitment may be made to an agent that ‘appointed status
: |. , Will be offered @tthe conclusion of his service unless such com-
: mitment has ¥en recommended by.“the'“Reputy: Director - for ;
eae . Operations or his Weblgnes!iwith the concurrence| of the Director of
: &® Security, and has gel bythe Dikector of Personnel.
ooo (€). Engagement of, ot be subject to Agency. personnel celling

as controls. y
. . _- .(d)_In general, agents will-not be required to meet Agency’ =
> ards, However .lf an agresment“with”an agent obligates the. Agency:
\ to provide medical or disability: benefits, “a°medical examinatién will:
: 8 3 be carried out, unless precluded by security considerations.
(e) Agents who are US. citizens, resident aliens, or foreign nationals In

the United States, must pay Féderal tax on all income 'derived from
their association with the Agency. Procedures for satisfying Federal
‘ tax Mability will be determined by the Covert Tax Board. (See HR
: 20-35.)
i (1) The use of retired civilian annuitants of the U.S. Government as agents
5 will be governed by policy set forth in HR 20-13.

5 (2) All commitments made or implied to agents will be recorded in elther a
Formal Agreement or a Memorandum of Oral Commitment...

(a) A Formal Agrecment is é-written agreement, signed. by the agent and
an authorized Agericy fepresentative. Formal: Agreements will be nego-

s tiated whenever’ operationally feasible. ~~ wes .

(0) A Memorandum of Crat Commitment ts a written record of an agree="..”

ment, signed: by an authorized Agency. representative but not.by the

agents Use of- Memorandums. of Oral Commitment will. be Umited, to.

. + those éases when It‘is In the Agency's best: interest not to’ solicit an

.- agent’s signature on aFormal Agreements.“

_Awagenbwill nover. be giver:a cop;
randum ot’ Orar Commitmént-:.:

ea laaoer
yr 007230



14-00000

PERSONNEL

HR 20-55 ge

yee: RESPONSIBILITIES AND A)

(1) The Deputy Director for Uperations 1s authorized to
(a) formulate procedures for the engagement and management of agents
and to issue operating directives and special instructions, as necessary,

to control the use of agents by headquarters and fleld units;

(>) execute, amend, renew, and terminate Formal Agreements and Memo-
randums of Oral Commitment. with agents; and to review Formal
Agreements and Memorandums of Oral Commitment executed In the
eld; : =

(c) suspend procedures implied in this regulation upon his personal deter-
mination that operational and security’ aspects of am agent's manage.
ment are so sensitive as to require processing through special channels.

(2) The Director of Personnel is authorized to
(a) approve, after coordinating with affected Agency components, the
commitment to an agent that he will receive special benefits;
approve the commitment to an agent that he will be offered appointed
status at the conclusion of his service, when such commitment has
been recommiended by the Deputy Director for Operations o hls des-
ignee, with the concurrence of the Director of Security;
execute, amend, renew, and terminate Formal Agreements and Memo-
randums of Oral Commitment when requ lo so by the appro-
priate Operations Directorate approvi authority may also

(b)

- (co)

a. POLICY, Procurement contracts whose basic purpose {s to obtain the services
of one or more individuals, negotiated with profit and nonprotit institutions,
associations, partnerships, proprietorships, and other organizations, are per-
mitted only when the particular services sought éannot be obtained In any

E ] other practicable way, -

b. PROCEDURES

(2) Except as provided in subparagraph b(3) below, all proposals for such
Procurement contracts and thelr renewal must be justified in writing by
the component seeking the services and be submitted to the Director of
Personnel for his approval before commitments are made or negotiations
started. These proposals will deseribe in some det; ifthe services to be ren-
dered, the qualifications required, the Zar tion of the task, and
the reason or reasons why a le RU EOE judged to be. the

el’

or ne

ie February 1973 (733)

‘and the Special Con-_

tracting Officer, Office 6
(3) All Formal Agreemen at pene written
under the authorit; es ei paera eet to legal review by
u the General Counsel (DNF suc] may prescribe,
‘~
55. PROCUREMENT CONTR. ‘S$ FOR THE . SERVICES OF
INDIVIDUALS

PERSONNEL

(2) The Direcy
personnel $
examine th
sonnel. If t
Tector-of Py
Oftice of Le
tract reque:
are written
BR 4520)
‘The approv
(a) for pro
dental |
reports!
task pe
time (¢
for pro
requlret
testing,
follow
ton—r¢
" abore. |

s RESTRICTION!

~ * <Q) Operating ¢
+ through th.
erly briefed
Agency inic
Operating ¢
the relatior
affects the}
curity clear,

(2) Technical j
procuremen
employer-e1

* organizatlo;
istrative au
the Agency,
cles, private

i
56-59. Reserved. 5

))

(o)



14-00000

HR 20-55c

(2) The Director of sesoums We ascertain whether any staff or nonstatf
personnel are available to perform the needed services. If not, he will
fon examine the feasibility of satisfying the requirement by hiring new per-
ean sonnel. If this latter course of action also proves impracticable, the Di-
rector of Personnel will approve the proposal and return it either to the
Office of Logistics or to the orlginator for subsequent submission of a con-
tract request to the appropriate procurement unit, Procurement contracts
are written under the authority of the Director of Logistics as stated in
BR 45-2,

(3) ‘The approval of the Director of Personnel Is not required
(a) for procurement contracts involving the services of Individuals inci-

dental to research and development or the preparation of studies or
noe reports, where the fee reflects an end product (a,report written, a

task performed, etc.) rather than a computation based mainly on
: time (per hour, per man year); |. Go
(b) for procurement contracts involving the. equipment which

i PERSONNEL

requires the services of experts or t jelivery, installation,

testing, initial operation or maj ca eitning, ets. However, any

follow-on contract for servi as. tenance’ ér opera-
Ts e

tHon—requires the Direstagy e's roval as set forth
above. KN .
|e, RESTRICTIONS KE WH

7 (2) Operating Ofticials are\réspo: foring’ all personnel acquired”
7 through these procedures, Thi fre that such personnel are prop-
urgent

: erly briefed and thoroughly ind any Umitations on their access to
© .. -Agency.information and buildings and other pertinent security restriction

~ Operating Otficlals.are.tequized, to advise appropriate, offices ‘at i

. the relationship or use-of such ‘individuals 1s subject toa change: which
i affects the'terms. of thelr contractual-arrangements, thelr status,. ot
curlty clearances, ay ;

i & . (2) Technical representatives and other types of personnel engaged under
‘

procurement contracts or other agreements which do not create a direct
employer-employee relationship are prohibited by law from holding formal
organizational positions or positions requiring the exercise of any admin-
istrative authority. They are also prohibited from formally representing
the Agency in meetings with representatives of other Government agen-
cles, private industry, or forelgn governments or industries.

56-59. Reserved.

COOhiE2

