# 104-10171-10014

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10171-10014

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

"'ROM: (Freadquari, is componans)

TFW/PA-PROP

TO

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST

AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

RID/AN

TO

: (Station/Asso)

COS, IMHAVE

FROM: (Division]

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

A COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUGH 18.

1O-RATEN

OLO TITLE WHEN AMENDINO A TITLE. CITE

•. ITEM D-ALE PILE TITLES MUST DE ATERILE SINCE THEY MILL

AMY PILRO. BUCH AB 20I OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE ME.

IPPIAR ON THE PIRLO COPIIS ANÓ ON MACMINE LISTA

LATED TO THE PILE COPRAKO DY THIS REQUEST. ITEM 1O MAY

ALSO BE UAND TO DIVE MEABONA POR THI ACTION AMINO NE.

E ITEM O-ALL REMARKA MUST BE ATERILE,

- QUEBTRO, TO IDANTITY TMA TYPE O! MATERIAL TO DE PLACKO

D: ITEMO I ANU

B-URE FIRST THREE LETTERE OF DISPATCH

IN À PILE OR TO MAKE OTHER IXPLAMATORY REMARKA.

PIRLS STATIONA

AND LIOT MEADQUARIERO

KLEMENTS ACCORDINO TO

NOTABLIANCO NUMIRIC CODCO.

P. ITEM IS-A RECORDS OFMICER MUST BION ALL PILE ACTION RR.

QUIATE, COMBULT YOUR RMO ON ANY PRODLEMS THAT ARIAR.

TYPE OF PILE

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

CODE ITILES NUMBKN

CATROONY

SUBJECT

S. FILE TITLE: TAPECIMIC BUBJEET,

AMSPELL

PROJECT

COUMIRY MUMORE

19

APRCITIE RUBIICT MUMDRA

26 13

PAT 975)

ACTION REQUIRED

ANALYDIO ACTION

OPKN PILE

CLOOR FILE

AMINO FILE TITLE

(INDICATE DISPOSITION)

O. REMARKO (FOR FIRLÓ DISTRIGUTIONT

aRTAIN

DESTROY THRU (DATES

DIAPORITION

_ORETROY

P. INTINTITAD STATIONO

8. INTEARATRD HEADQUARTERA DEBR

UFG

19

FILES ACTION

MOLO IN

CA PILES

RESTRICTEO

UNRESTRICTIO

PREPARR FOLDIR AND

SENO TO REQUESTER

TO COMMENTO (INGLUOR SPECIAL MEADOUAATERE ROUTINO INSIRUGTIONEI

This will Include other than AMBARB, Infiltration and

exfiltration traffic

ENDORSEMIN:

milal good

Michaad C. Joseph TFW/RNO

10.00162

812

DAZOLETE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

MUN

19

12 k

SECRETPUNCHED

170-

CHARGE PERMANENTLY TO

X TEW/PA-PROP

Gabe Love

6542

03

1366

8-CS CUFF.

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Ordy

Do Not Reproduce

₴/g0

---

