(1o4-10112-109446) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Je t \f
meal EIDENTIAL oo
OCA
Chief, Fmployee Activitvy~Branctt/P3D/0S 3 October 1956

John F, Meredith
035
(Paxson, Puma, Fell (#20891) ~ Clearance of Affidavit

1. Reference is made to Subject's memorandum dated 17
September 1956 informing this Office that she intended to submit
an affidavit in connection with a divorce suit instituted by

= Mason lacie cone eee his present wife, Mrs. Carmen Conein,
Subject attac @ Copy of the substarice of the information which
she would provide in her affidavit in support of Mrs. Conein's
action in contesting the divorce.

2, It was ascertained from Mr. Farrison, Clearance Branch,
Personnel Security Division, that there is a current security
action concerning Subject under Fxecutive Order 10450, the ques-
tionable information which brought about F. 0. 10450 processing
being concerned with Subject's sister's associations, rather than

her own.

3. A review of Major Conein's file (#5025) discloses that
Conein is a regular Army officer who has been assigned to this
Agency for a number of years. He is presently on home leave after
a Far Fastern tour and the Office of Security has been advised that
Coneir will probably be returned to the Arny in October, 1956, in
order to serve two years to complete twenty years service. After
his a=~y retirement, there is a possibility that he will be con-
sidered for assignment to this Agency as a staff euployee. Conein's
file contains no record of his most recent marriage, i.e., his
marrisge to Carmen Conein, It is noted that Mr. Myers, Clearance
Braze=, Personnel Security Division, has been instructed to develop
info=nation concerning Conein's present spouse inasmch as it was
lea==ed indirectly that Conein is married at present.

4. A-search of Office of Security indices in the name of
Carzex Conein revealed that this person who is Major Conein's
wits, is the subject of File #28995 and was a CIA employee until
her =esignation in October, 1951. Her file reflects that she
maz—.m4 Major Conein in Germany in December, 1948.

5. On 28 September 1956 I contacted Subject intending to
adxise her that there would be no security objection to her sub-
mitsatng an affidavit in support of Mrs. Conein's contesting of
the +=vorce action brought by her husband provided that she does

wed CONFIDENTIAL


CONFIDENTIAL

not indicate her employment’ as CIA in the affidavit. I learned ,
from Subject that she had already subaitted an affidavit and that
she had not mentioned her present employment therein, Subject
stated that (ir, Berkauy Security Officer, FI Staff, had informed
her that she could subait the affidavit, but that she should
advise the Office of Security as a matter of information. Subject
described Selor Conein 28 a, very, unscrumilous-person and mentioned
that Concin wants to prove wife, Carmen, has established
residence elsewhere and will not live with him, He will try to
deny that he has resided in the Washington area, although she and
other persons, including a realty agent who sold their present
home to the Major and his wife, can testify to the contrary, Sub-
ject mentioned that Carmen Conein is now employed by the National
Security Agency.

6. I instructed Subject to contact this Office for appropriate
briefing in the event that she is called upon to appear in court
in connection with the Conein divorce matter. She agreed to do
this, but expressed the opinion that there would be no need for her
to appear in this case,

7. ‘It should be noted that technically speaking Major Conein
should have-notified the Office of Security relative to his intention
to file suit for divorce; however, circumstances indicate that he
hss not returned to Headquarters since completion of his recent
Far Eastern tour and that the divorce action apparently was initiated
within the past month or two during the Major's home lesve. In view
of the fact thet Conein has natural cover as an Army officer so that
no publicity to CIA would result from his divorce action, and in
view of the probability that he will return to the Army this month
for a tvo year tour, it is believed that no further action is
necessary by this Branch. In view of the current interest by the
Clearance Branch, Personnel Security Division in regard to the
identity of Subject's spouse, it is suggested that this memorandum
be forwarded to the attention of John Myers of Clearance Branch,

John F, Meredith

OS/JFMimab
Distributions
Original & 2 = 0S Files
1 - EAB File
1 - Chrono,

CORFIDENTIAL
