""104-10161-10097} |2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSA‘ A ACT OF 1992
ad IEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS

ase-reteret] fe saree | «REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
re SECRET ISSUING OFFICE 16 PROMIBITED
SERSON/UNIT NOTIFIEO, anon be

a ay,
vance con EB sworen UA eran JSS" yaaa
ACTION UNIT 1 i

i RF. FILE VR. LALA ¢ y aes a.skeun
ee N 4
ara O6¢ 2, commas, 000, ODA
7 631054 ETASSS PAGE 21 ie Fe 805199
F y,
TOR! 2612522 JAN 76 fs ae 29824
fy
S EC RE T 2613322 JAN 76 STAFF (\~
_—ie-2 i
CITE 29824 a
—_—_—- 5-15
To! PRIORITY DIRECTOR,
0% {|
{H¥sPLASH
SSBERRASRGEGY O Sb SIRGRGRSRSIREE
de MORNING 25) RECEIVED PHONE CALL AT

HOME FROM YOUNG MAN WHO SAID HE CHRIS PHILLIPS, SON OF DAVE
PHILLIPS. HE SAID HE ON VACATION AND REQUESTED INFO ON WHAT
To SEE AND DO IN MADRID AREA, ALSO ASKED IF POLITICAL SITUATION
IN PORTUGAL SUCH THAT TRAVEL THERE KOULD BE NG oRoBLEM.[
[| |waS ON KAY TO MEETING AND ASKED THAT HE CALL BACK LATER,
HE DID, AND SAIL HE TRAVELING TO LIS&GN THAT NIGHT AND WOULD
RETURN MADRID LATER IN KEEK, HE SAID ne DID NST HAVE ADDRESS
IN MADRID aT MOMENT AND WOULD cauuf_‘asarN UPON RETURN
TO MADRID,
OF
2, WESOMEWHAT SUSPICIOUS THIS CALL SINCE DOES

NOT KNOK CHRIS PHILLIPS, ALTHOUGH I7 PUSSISLE HIS FATHER GAVE
wind NAME AS SOMEONE TO HEL? HIN WITH TOURIST QUES-
TIONS, ALSO DOUBT THAT PHILLIPS WOULD HAVE CA_LED BACK IF HE
ONLY PRUBING FGR LOCATION OF CIA PERSCNNEL, SINCE FIRST CALL
WOULD HAVE CONFIRMED WHAT HE WANTED KNOW. CHECK WITH MARINE

SECRET x -- ow
“RETURNTOCIA

Background Use Only

._Do Not Reproduce _

You


TOTAL COPIES. E wJN BY

> TABLE BEC DISSEM BY PER
7 + | REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
Herds SECRET ISSUING OFFICE 15 PROMIBITED
2: ERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED. al inti 7
oH i
IST AFF i

.DVANGE COPY 1SSUED/SLOTTED By AL z

7 : T 1

,CTION UNIT

lt} RF. FILE VR

7 ig
2 3

ACTION #

om

|
i

T 631654 ELAg55 PAGE @2-82

TOR?2612522 JAN 76

IN, 805199

Io-2
29824

3/o

GUARD REVEALED THAT SOMEONE HAD CALLED EMBASSY MORNING 25 JAN

Az a
ASKING FOR| HOME PHONE, MARINE GUARD FURNISHED THE
NUMZER» ALTHOGGR RECENT EMBASSY INSTRUCTION IS NOT TO GIVE OUT

SUCH NUMBERS BUT ASK calter FOR HIS NUMBER AND SAY PERSGN WILL

GET IN TOUCH WITH HIM,

3, CAN HGS CONFIRM THAT CHRIS PHILLIPS TRAVELING IN
IBERTA AND.THAT DAVE PHILLIPS GAVE HIM NAMES OF PEOPLE
TO CALL ON THEAE?

4. PRILLIPS MAY ALSO CALL GN PERSONS YOUR

STATION WHO KNGWN TO DAVE PHILLIPS.

5, FILEt DEFER, E2 IMPDET
