# 104-10331-10153

## Page 1

1704-10337-10153

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

CL BY: 0611637

CL REASON: Section 1,5 C

DECL OB: X1

DRV FRM: HUM 482

15 May 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Lee S. Strickland @ DA

Fredrick C. Wickham @ DO

William H. McNair @ DO

Becky L. Rant @ DA

Teresa Wilcox @ DST

MaryLou Cummings

Barbara T. Blufer

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer

OFFICE:

OIM/HRP

SUBJECT:

ARRB Meeting 13 May 1998 - Results

REFERENCE:

Lotus note dated 8 May - ARRB Meeting 12-13 May 1998

The JFK Board addressed six Agency issues at the 13 May meeting. The Agency's proposals prevailed in four of the six issues

or one and one issue was tabled for further discussion. The Board made the following determinations:

1) Alias Documentation and Accommodation Addresses:

accepted our proposal to postpone release of specific information until 2017 and use generic substitute language.

21 UTAMIL ICIA penetration of Cuban Embassy in Mexico Citylconsidered a "Key player" in the Oswald-Mexico

City story):

agreed to continue to protect the full crypt and delay the release of additional documents (201 file) until his death.

They set an annual review date on the documents; the Agency will need to advise NARA annually on his status.

3) Richard Gibson [ member of Fair Play for Cuba Committee during early 60's/considered a "key player in

/Oswald's story/Agency asset beginning in 1965]:

agreed protect Gibson's relationship with the Agency and designated Agency and FBI files and documents

outside the JFK collection window, 1960-64, as NBRs (not believed relevant).

4) AMTRUNK Assets [AMTRUNK was an early 1960's anti-Cuban operation; most of the details of the operation

including crypts have been previously released]:

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

agreed to protect true name and 201 file numbers of assets not previously released.

5) Mark Lane Item (extract from foreign document):

postponed until 4 June meeting; board would like have a member or its staff confirm the existence of the

document and ensure that it contains no other JFK assassination related information.

6) Carlos Tepedino [CIA asset/ key figure in AMLASH-Cubela plot to kill Castro/true name and role in story has

been publicly known for years):

voted to release his name in the 1967 IG Report on Plots Against Castro and other JFK collection documents

The Stone/Golitsyn issue was pulled from the agencd and will be addressed at the next meeting (4 June).

This was a very successful meeting from the Agency's perspective. The loss on Tepedino was not unexpected. Given what is

in the public domain, the Agency has not been able to make a persuasive argument to protect his name in the three years Tepedino has

seen at issue. Thanks to all who assisted in preparing for the meeting, and especially to Steve White and Dick Kinsman who prepared th

ssue and talking point papers that carried the day

CC:

SECRET

---

