10130-10329) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

coc DISTRICT |
(CATEGORY OF REPORT) (FIELD OFFICE)

DATE

25 May 1963

PERIOD OF INVESTIGATION

17 May 1963

APPROVED:

DISTRIBUTION:
QS) - ORIG.
eo

IFO <1:

FORM GUG use reevious corrions.



— SECRET -”

TARASOFF, Boris D. 25 May 1963
lo, 887 B - sp/2

On 17 May 1963, the file of Boris and Anna D. TARASOFF of
5109 - Sth Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. was reviewed at the

29 (Credit Burean,‘Ine.} Washington, D.C. There was one credit re-

port in the file dated 21 December 1962.

This report shows SUBJECT's employment as Joint Publications
Research Service, Ohio Drive and Independence Avenue, S. W., as
a transIator since 1 May 1959. It states he is paid by the job
and averagas $500 per annum. There is also a statement: “Said
to work at other translating jobs - unable to learn any other
information".

This report was prepared for(Raleigh Haberdashers jon 21 De-
cember 1962, and was disseminated to Ghai. Oil Go., 8020 New Ramps &
=n

shire Ave), Silver Spring, Maryland on 9 April 1963.

On 17 May 1963, the file of Boris D. and Anna TARASOFF of
5109 - hSth Street, N. W., was reviewed at(Stone's Mercantile 24

. Ageney, Ine. Washington, D. C. This file contained a credit re-
;port prepa: on 28 September 1961 for Colonial Fuet Oil Co.

This report gives SUBJECT!s enployment as Central Intelligence
Agency, 2430 E Street. "All other details refused." This report
states SUBJECT has a brother George D. TARASOFF who resides at
2819 Gainesville Street, S. E., which is SUBJECT's former address,
and who is also employed by the Central Intelligence Agency. This
file information has been disseminated to only ‘the (Colonial Fuel 29
Oil Comary ) :

Mf/sdr

‘SECKE ee

declassitication
