Tios-t04z8-10012| | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY [ssaseivaTion RECORDS ACT OF 1992 Cr
ae : ig -~

ALN-72-77
11 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Miami Field Office
; FROM : Chief, Domestic Collection Division,
Operations Services Group, Alien Branch
iF
i
4
i

SUBJECT : Case $7845

7 1. Please show the attached photographs of an unidentified
man to Subject. A photograph of this man was published in the
Warren Commission report on the assassination of President Kennedy.

= Copies have also been-widely_distributed in news media by journa!
ists critical of the Warren Conmission investigation. The unidenti
fied man visited the Quban and Soviet Enbassies in Mexico City during’
October 1963. As of October 1963, he was described as approximately
35, athletic-build, about.6 feet tall, blond receding hairline with
balding top, and wore khakis and sport shirt.

2. We would appreciate any information Subject is able to
provide on this man.

3. Should you obtain any OIR reports, please use referent
CPLA-006877.. a

. 03
Ag Lae be]
U -

{ Attachments:
As stated

Gx ey ‘ltg
C4) :

E 2 DPDET CL BY 006875

SECRFT fe

FV


13-00000

dy

we 20g

Source


CONFIDENTIAL 1816982 MAR 77 STAFF
CITE DCDAITAMY 13919

108 DCD /ATEADQUARTERS. ,
WHINTEL/WOMACE INTERNAL USE ONLY

MIAMI OIR-B6878-77
SUBJECT’ UNIDERTIFIED KGB OFFICER
REF & DCD CASE $7845

“CPLA=686877 bee a
1. ON 17 MARCH 1977, A FORMER MEMBER OF THE CUBAN GENERAL

DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE (DGI) WAS REQUESTED TO IDENTIFY AND
PROVIDE INFORMATION ON AN UNIDENTIFIED MAN. THE FORMER DGI MEMBER
-IDENTIFIED THE MAN AS YURI CLNU), A KGB OFFICER, WHOM HE MET IN,
.MOSCOW IN 1964 WHILE ATTENDING AN INTELLIGENCE COURSE IW THAT,
CITY, HE SAID THAT YURI, A FLUENT ENGLISH AND SPANISH SPEAKER »_
_WAS ACTING AS A TROUBLESHOOTER FOR THE CUBAN GROUP, ABOUT 15,
ATTENDING THE COURSE.

@. ‘THE FORMER DGI MEMBER SAID THAT THE CUBAR GROUP, ALONG WITH
THE BULGARIANS, WERE QUARTERED IN THE SAME BUILDING IN MOSCOW AND
THAT YURI LIVED WITH THEM ANYTIME THAT THE CUBANS HAD A PROBLEM
YURI WOULD SOLVE IT HEM, HE ALSO SAID THAT YURI WAS A GOOD
FRIEND OF JUAN (PSEUDO), A KGB OFFICER WHO TAUGHT THE CUBANS ABOUT
THE AGENCY AND THE WEST GERI INTELLIGENCE APPARAIUS. JUAN TOLD
THE FORMER il

‘ORM ONE DAY THAT HE HAD SERVED IW MEXICO FOR
ABOUT 20 -YEARS-AND IN THE US CLANDESTINELY FOR ABOUT 18 YEARS. ATI
THE TIME JUAN WAS ABOUT 55 YEARS OLD. YURI DID NOV ATTEND CLASSES
WITH THE CUBAN GROUP. HE WAS ONLY ENTRUSTED WITH THEIR WELFARE.
£2 IMPDET CL BY 811668
CONFIDENTIAL

