# 104-10226-10087

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10226-10087)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CASSHICATION

TRANSMITTAL

OF

TOCS INFORMATION REPORT

оню.

Jane S. Ingle: 18

BOUTDIO

UNIT

TW/Intel/Reurts

Ext.

5547

DATE

77 August 1962

COMPIRMATION COPHIA

TF# 12

INPORMATION COPIES

CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D. EX/INT 8.

WE 4,

DATA DISTRIBUIEO

27 August 1962

DISSAMIMATION

TEW/FL

2 TEW/PROP-PA 1

TEWLInE

TFW/SI

TFW/R

21

TFW WAYE

TFW/CL

WH/R

WE/3

WE/R

2

TEW/ PM

1I WH/PACY 2

09/SSD/Bnumen

AVALUATION

BROUESTIO

STATE

ARMY

NAVY

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

(Whoa Pitool la)

855

Av:78 13 44-82

TDCS -3/520,848...ü1L66.

CA 2, CA/PRG, O3, WH 8,

MACHDINCH

ROUTINE

WAVE-7632 (IN-11670)

WAVE-7114 (IN-46173)

UFG-1396

UNION (UNION-11)

Ilalsoni &

Harpe

UK

DD/P INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENIKATINO OFFICER

COONDIMATIMO OFFICERIN)

w.s.Compton

WE/3/RE (in draft)

GASSEICATION

SECRET

(When Pillad to)

у но.

---

## Page 2

14.00000

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPURT TELECRAN

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGUNCY

COUNTRY

SUBJICT

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE A

• DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

8-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CUBA

PLANNED UPRISING BY OPPOSITION

GROUPS IN CUBA

REPORT NO, TDCS-3/520,816.

DATA DISTA, 27 AUGUST 1962

PRECIDENCE

ROUTINE

RIFERENCES

AUGUST 1962

KD-1C9-01258

IN -46173

-11670

KD-W-2107

PRANCE, PARIS (25 AUGUST 1962)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED IMPONMATION. SOURCE GRADINES ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE

1. MEMBERS OF THE UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIA

(UR) REPORTED TO THE

FREICH EMBASSY IN HABANA THAT ON 10 AUGUST THEY WERE INVITED TO ATTEND

A MEETING ON 14 AUGUST ORGANIZED BY THE UIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO

ESTUDIANTIL (DRE) AND THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO

(MRP). THE PURPOSE OF THE MEETING WAS FOR THE THREE GROUPS TO PLAN A

STAGE OF ACTIVE WARFARE. THE UR WAS ADVISED BY THE FRENCH EMBASSY

NOT TO PARTICIPATE, BUT THE UR COULD NOS CONVINCE THE DRE AND THE

MRP TO REVERSE THEIR DECISION FOR AN UPRISING SCHEDULED FOR THE LAST

DAYS OF AUGUST, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN A GENERAL UPRISING OF ALL

INTERNAL RESISTANCE GROUPS.

2. FISLD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCARIB

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

TEN M LA

S..E-C-R-E-T/ NO FOREIGN DISSEN

REPCLICLAST

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM.

---

## Page 3

14.00000 •

CASSOICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TOCS -3/520,846

* 47173

PAOR

3.

HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: AMERICAN EMBASSY, PARIS, TELSGRAM

10. 984, DATED 26 AUGUST 1962, REPORTED INFORMATION FROM THE FRENCH

ANSASSADOR IN HABANA ON THIS AGREEMENT FOR A GENERAL UPRISING

DIRING THE LAST DAYS OF AUGUST.

END OF MESSAGE

CASSANCATION - DESSEMOLATIDA CONTROLS

,8-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

