# 104-10408-10351

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10408-10351

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

6: JOHN M. WHITIEN

: 5013

6: 4 DECEMBER 1963

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

O INDEX

SECRET

SNO INDEX

FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-287248 destig

12-82

ROUTING

STOCKHOLM

N:

DIRECTOR

4 DEC 63

1741z

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

IF:

DEFENREDEN

ROUTINE

• :

authoriaed: DE

DCI, 0/DC1, ODP, C/CI, c/CI/SI, VR-

- Harthin

PRIORITY STOC

INFO

R. 0. 12 - bast CU/REEZE DIR

86668

BARIN GPSLOOR

Note:

If destruotton,

cite

REF {S.

4319*

reasons and coordinate

11 appropriate.

1: PIS SLUG ALL, TRAPPIC ON PRESIDENI 'S ASSASSINATION ONLY AS ABOVE.

2. IO TRACES QI RIDDERDIRALS, OR ANDERSSON AND LEMBKE, STILL TRACING ABERO

AND ALBRECHT.

3!' IN FOLIONING UP THIS CASE, URGE STOC

SO HANDLE AS TO AVOID TEMPTING

SUBIS TO REPAI WIAI IS ALMOST CERIAINLY A FABRICATION OR A MILLION TO ONE

for FOlA Revlew on MAY 1976

COINCIDENCE: AT SAME TIME, GIVING OF VALID INFORMATION MUST NOT BE DISCOURAGED.

SUGGEST YOU INFORM ALERBCHT THAT HIS FIRST INFORMATION, IF ACTUALL TRUS,

IS OF GRAVE IMPORTANCE AND COULD SERIOUSLY COMPLICANE LIVES OF HIMSELE,

ABERG, AND RIDDERSTRALE AND INVOLVE ALL OF THEM IN MOST SEARCHING INVESTIGATION

AND INTERBOGAIION AND CROSS QUESTIONING BY SWEDISHI AND ODYOKE AUTHORITIES. ASK HIM

TO CHECK BACK AND SIME IF HE AND ABERG NOT MISTAKEN ABOUT DATES OR IF ABERG NON

Documant Numbor.

292-693

GIVEN TO MILD SOCIAL PREVARICATION. WHAT DOES STOC; THINK OF ASKING OFFICIAL

201-289248

LELP FROM INTAISON?

PLS DO NOT DO SO WITHOUT CHECKING HERE.

1. FYI ONLY, THERE IS NO EVIDENCE OSHALD BACKED BY ANY POREIGN POWER, BUI SUC

CONNECTION STILE, NOT ABSOLUIELY AND FINALLY RULED OUT. FURTHER, WE HAVE BEEN

_IMPDET CL BMAL22 0%

PLAGUED BY SWARM OF PABRICATORS WORLD-WIDE ON THIS CASE, EUT IN FINAL ANALYS

COPY

SORTING OUT LIES FROM GOOD TIPS IS

COORDINATING

CASE OPTICERS, AID

SEEMS TU RE DOING

RELEASING OFFICER

tueluded frog auton lic

SECRET

downgrading and

d86/088.se8lion

AUTHEMTICATIMG

• D.REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

CONDUCTED ON 24 MAY 1978

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

---

## Page 2

13-00000

л. ¿

ORIG:

UNIT :

EXT :

DATE :

тO :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF : ,

INO &

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

12-62

ROUTING

O INDEX

D NO INDEX

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

10.

INFO

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

•30÷593

CITE DIR 86668!

HELL ON THIS CASE:

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: * (IN 71757).

Reported interview with: Adolf Jay Albrecht.

py suthority of

RICHARD HELMS

•RELEASING OFFICER

DDP

REPRODUCTION

COORDINATING OFFICERS

S BOREI

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

Excluded leom aulomalie

gamnifinding and

declassification

PROHIBITED.

LUTHENTICATIN

OFFICE

Copy No

---

