# 104-10074-10204

## Page 1

1104-10074-10204

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SEGRET •

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

APR 5

1956)

Gon servie

1 7. Pastal

SUBUBET

aperty Director,

10. 30

sargarata idler

rue A6 st3 26, (caste

commund cation dated 16. ret

bruary 1956.

TOM 12 06.

Important

Chan to attick, too rIgh

aha ma, to oppose the anti-quelan activitles in the taitod sti

and to gala confidasca!

and understanding for sovlet Rasale. Apart

ros all politient and idsolartent considerations, the cause of vorld

pasce could only be prenated by lagriom-faustan understanding. The

Gersna in the los. ars ecosoulently strong and by sany ties am

onnected With Republion reactionaries.

W922E0

" "an salar had no sene about rellat for deranny but said

hat this teat ins in the forenost of everybody's adod at the deman

by pel board later eden to be on a line Strinaton

fiom readers. sha esserto thas too professional and secratarial stal

raceives anly pondmal mages milde actually only comes expenses.".

3. To bolleve that the files of the Podoral Bureau of Investigati

and Departrent of ins Ary, (-2, contain derogatory information on subject

aud her hugoand, John: PIIIllle, Ta suggest that you chack with them 1f yo

have not alraady dona so.!

CSCX-5553

E3/G/MRoNey: jIr) 3 April 1956

DI S'TRIBUTION:

Orig & 1 - Addressee !

- RQW/RC

I-CI. STAFF

Bandshie

2-EB/O

en aria

Runs (3)

10468

ENCLA

SECRET RI CADV

---

