# 104-10193-10131

## Page 1

104-10193-10131•

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MIRAN BLED IND

FEN

GO

ROUTING ANO RECORD SHEET

PIONS

PRiOR TO FILING

TO: ACTION BRANCH

9111 In Seci.

wack. Dotach back

flap and forward to

Destroy. frcat cover

shoot.

unloss 1t

records sirificant action

takon.or

conments. requiring.presorvation.

FROM:

Is filo no: and title shorn aro not

1r3ort propor rilo

no. below

and forward documont to RID/AN.

CHOILA RILE NO.

RID/

MICROFILMEO

Str 6 1903

DOC. MICRO. SER

3

TO: ALL ADORESSEES

PILE IN SECTION I ON BACK. IN APMRONRIATE

COMMENTO

TH/S REGISTRY

TO

ROOM

NO.

DAYE

PONMAPOTO:

PASTIALO

3/G REGISTRY

2.

1 JUN 1961

JUN 1962

Uh. COPY DETAGHED

cul

2-3!

Eye intern's

Веripe-.33,

03

03

RUP.

Whiles

3-4: flare trace subject,

adire WAve iny rizilte

and riqueed them

privete

it 3.7

5 Jur 6l

9.

10.

11D/1N:

16.

RL

downe sein Keltie.

cades -gur

BELL-1028 (OLT-JOYS)

carded you 13 Gamet.

€

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMED

129 AUG 1963

IND LA

ABSTRACT A:

INDEX

*

carding

FILL TITLE

FILE FUMBER MARY CODE

L% -

LOLUMENT DA

120-15

DOCUMENT NUMBER

UFGA 01598

allantil

3/Д

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

maluf, i ravister.

S--ü-t-ioT

MICROELMED:

SEr 6 1YDj

DOC. MICRO. BER.

1778.

MIND

PROCESSING

MARALD ACR INDURINE

NO INTERIAC MOURRO

ONLY QUALITIE

KIACUMAMIIRS NISA

CAR NOCE IMTARINA

MICROFILM

ALCOM

+150I0

Chief of base.&y

MAWFRATAEO APERMIS

Action aqquired: see paragraph tiree

On 23:89

icil dvt-03 reported that he talied with subjuct, who arrived

in liani on l lar til fron cuba. ine following intumation was disclosed in the

interview:

BRASSE

assochated it wiid ho had worked in tie undirkround In Cuba. ind was closely

sie iRk in Deconber 1900 wher tint survice veran to orianize

under the diration of a rouns man who sportedli was trained in PoRtiN 101

che purose d urianizing that service vi thin cuba.

saursuid further.

stated

that aisle workly with the ikk he travelled to Oriente Province with

this young anniser for the purpose of mating the revoluidonary (roups

active in tia: sirrince.

assence said that he sas in chare of colluctin; information from

sources

in Firi rol iio and passing it, to tho if overntors who then fornarde

it to

After the capturo of in Rudo 1, chiur o: the underground in Cuba,

reen the secretire of the new chiar,

2d maintained this position

until 17 april won the mass arresto and the round-up of sevéral of his

ram him to ro into hiding. dio cought refuge in tho Frenen

in tarera, ind although this moarsy des not have the right to frant

asplum, he is icmitt.i to remain in niding there as a guest of the embassy.

iren he sas ario to leave for Portilin, the French Ambassador personally

escorted hin is tie plane.

Jairsues selderos that the undergroind in cuba has voen virtually.

put out i essiness by the miolesale arists tirougnout the country. lie

said the sitarion of thu meroits of the under;round ho have not been

arrested is sosperate, as they lave no place to hide.

DRUNSCH-i sold A C1-83 he was vers interestei in workiny for tie causo

in any war iricio.

vistricution:

3 ilit

@s:099+5

"CADES REFERENCE TO

IN 2011

CUSSIFICATAN

CATE TYPED.

DATE OISPAICHED

25 lay ól

DISPAICH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

VEGA- 1548

MEAOSUNATCRS TUE NUMBER

19-120-18

---

## Page 3

14-00000

S-i-C-i-I-T

PAGS TWO

2. A'OT-83 stated in his ruport of the interview that he could arrange

future contuct with PRINSCiWIG.

3.

Base wave files contain no reference to subjecy. selore further

contact with s'bject is made,

Base WAVE would appreciate any information

ileadquartura files might contain on slutiSCialla.

END OF LiSSAGE

S-it-r-i-T

LIFO

15.98

19-120-18

---

## Page 4

14.00000

https://asc-app-01:7002/jfk/boxes/JFK64-28/coversheets

SECRET

DOCUMENT

Box Number:

JFK64-28

Source Number: 104-10193-10134

CADRE Ref ID: C00559172

Pub Date:

05/16/1961

Pages:

C00559172

104-10193-10134

SECRET

70 of 105

1/12/2015 1:54 PM

---

## Page 5

in 03 li

ORIG

UNIT

EXT

DATE :

1O

FROM:

CONF:

INFO i

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

BBCRET

16:2858.22

16-26

ROUTING

8306

16 Mgx 2261

MAY 16

22002. 61

BELL 15

COP, ANDP/A, WH, BELL S/C

8

PRIORITY NAVE

INFO

JERIP BOON

RAPS: WAVS 6218 (IN 1904) * "

BITE 0574(007 (0UT 49

APPROVED PROVIDED NO U.S. PERSONNEL INVOLVED.

(END OF MESSAGE)

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 9251

OUT 9251

CITE DUCT BETT

0595

0595.

WH Comment:

ee are to mount cool batta R.

3. A STATULIS,

03

Moon

COOPRINATINO ORDICE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTMENTICATIMO OPIICEN

Copy No.

3/PV

---

