104-10181-10065|

2022 ie is = PRESIDENT Bleak) F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION bea ACT OF 1992
PATE RET

22/p)

i or leahurss

_Sons. Por your information enly Br ovsunito ne. ore ost

Darnawa
x-ref to Lya-
32=126=20

ational/caRr? Ter
nevis “ieee Wiadiaar SLcBOD

wets
AEGUIKED
AM Of JuOGtO.

ow

5000, 9 Auguat 1960
mea a 19 august 1960 B

7531, 2 Septender 1960
FRAN)6536, 10 Cctoder 1960
wo
1. Paragraph one of reference C should be modified to show that
SLOBODA knew Jchn T. Ossenbrink by trosnaze as early as March 1960,
at which time Oesenbdrink dealt with SLO30DA offiotally in the procuring
of East German city pians and other materiale foF(CAREINK, Sia
ocooupying th (CAFHIBK offices in late May of 1960, mnbrink sa
SLOBODA about three times in the latter's office, each of which visits
concerned the acquieition of basis Intelligence msterials (o.g., Rast
Geraan telephone books, city plans, etc.). Oveenbrink did not indicate
to SLOBODA the reason for Ossenbrink's request for these zaterials, but
SLOBODA did know Ossenbrink's phone extension at Casp King, since
Ossenbdrink occasionally left vord with SLOBODA for SLOBODA's superior,
Len Meller, Chief of Publications Proouresent Section, to phone
Ossenbrink for official purpo:

a2
2, Oseendrink haa questioned all KUBARK(CAPHISX staff meubere on
their cnoniedge of SICBODA, making use of & photograph of SLOBODA ror
thia purpose, Wone had any personal contact with hin; however, sll
felt that they had aeen hia at the Coap King coffee bar. It snould

de noted that wany US Army wilitary personnel et Camp Ki
official knowledge of the officiel sad unofficial naae of |C. apie (coe

attachsent under separats cover), and. +t the KUBARK (CAPHISE otaff
menbers are eaployees of igned to CaSf King for vork in
cafeIEX. The aane end afssion of (CARINE is olassified presently
CQBPIDESTIAL - FOPORS, which moana teat the official name and sivsion
TPHIWK 1 widely knosn among other US Army offices at Caap King,
whiol aleo had frequent occasion to ¢

Moreover, in conversing with 0S Arny
bar, clei conceivable that SLOBODA learned the true nanes of all

XUBARK caprarax personnel ethene their knowledge,

3. In onemary, it appears that SLOBOZA could have lesrned the
following about (Ci INK during the period Mareh-Augvet 1960 =

OL @. Official and unofficial maze and mission of
(carsimx. (orfiotel and unofficial nawo of (CAPHIEE
Torvarded as Identitios A. and B. respectively “vader
arate cover attachment)

2
be True newe of KUBARK and (CAPHtxK staff menders,
inoluding the fact that they are assigned to Caup King

iq

Tamrcairee

Tascuessewron |
Bani

| srcRreet

1



weonnas

The delay in reporting thie aattor vas duo to the fact that

4.
ve when the SLOBODL ection took place.

Jependrink was on home

John f, OSSEYBRINK

Approveds

a

Leeter 3. REDW.

Attaohmonts ae
Official and Unofficial naneo (CHYaIE

Distributions
2 ~ BE w/att 0,
2 = KUs w/at!

Yam : eet eating tetera

$asa es bscasaessbabsesnsessenaetdt ete
