104-10119-10142| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

Hy ry bisa Eta | ©
Siri \

"28 May 1976

“MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: MNUNT,E. Woward
& 2b SOO

1. On 15 April 1976 the Japanese Communist Party (JCP)
held a press conference in Tokyo and distributed a "handout"
containing Subject's name as one of many U.S. Government
officials alleged to be affiliated with the CIA. Although the
JCP named some bona fide Agency employees, many were bona fide
State Department employees or employees of other government
agencies who had previously been listed in Who's Who in CIA.

2. The purpose of this memorandum is to document the
security files of those A ency, &: iployees named by JCP as being
formerly assigned to the ‘oky6d Station plus those State Depart-
ment employees for whom a security file exists. It should be
noted that the Directorate of Operations is currentiy in the
process of formality notifying those Agency employees formerly

assigned tort yojof their inclusion in the JCP list.

3. For complete details concerning the JCP exposure, the
reader is referred to a memorandum dated 6 May 1976, subject:
Exposure of CIA Personnel, which is located in the security file
of the same title, #601 818, Volume VIII. Cited memorandum /3-3

treated those Agency employees currently assigned to the /Tokyo
Station]and contains pertinent cables relating to the JC.

exposure.

4. Comments: Rearived GS-8 Ses ces
CdS PRerAd) , Assiqnes 40 Tapan WSA-Sle. Lisred
Ww SAR pew Boe CMenaivedes) | uel, WKTERGATE.

mororeley

RETURNTO Cla Q yar Qt Ry —
Background Use Michael E. Schneeberger
0 Not Reproduce Security Analysis Group

E2 IMPDET
cL By 007472 YD

