# 104-10169-10008

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10169-10008

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DATE

•'I6 JUL 63

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM , MWAVE

SAS 8

21

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

GASiFILE MESSAGE

POUTING

SECRET

6

Dela Q/DCI, DOP

300 6, cA 2,

CA/PES, CA/PROP

ca/o 4, 61, 61/0p9, 61/10 2,

F1, T1/o, 80/IAT, IN,

RO/AN, UM T, 00/1, A0/612, A0/ME, AF 2.

JUL 13 82822 63

ROUT INE

IN 78892

тост

DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE LAVE 18864

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA, AMLABEL -I FROM ENRIQUE LUIS BADIAS REPEAT BADIAS

VALDE IOLESIASTNO SPOKE WITH PUJOL. INDIAS WAS jANRAbEL-L'S

ASSISTANT AT AMIRON LECEUITING OFFICE] (BOÍAS) CLAIMS THAT

[PUJOL) IS NOT AWARE THAT INFO BEING PASSED TO ANY ODYOKE AGENCY.

RIDA INDEX, FILED 122352Z REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED

DISSEM, COUNTRY, CUBA, SUBUI FURTHER PLANS OF EVELIO DUQUE

REPEAT DUQUE MIYAR TO EMBARRASS THE U.S. QOVERNMENT

.DO18 2 JUL 63, PADA, UNITED STATES, MIAMI (8 JUL 63)

UFO 3192 APPR 3

DO DISSETAMMATION ON THE ATTAOSET

ТЕ РОКТМИ DA НІВ ОЛМА НАД ЄЗНІ

ВЗАБЗ БИТОНА ІНЕ ВДННОУ РЕГІНИНІ

FILE IN 80%

30200€

TOC!

12400218

повій

TULATING INST

DATT DISTIAURIE

WAHS ON

LAMON

SECRET

AEMODUCTION BY OTHIA THAN ISSUING ONCI IS IRONINTO

325doiaig

G/PV

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MAMUINFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAN

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Hã ancé do tecido o taia e o da Mida tet a is do densos dora los ce visio

CONFIDENTIAL

CLSSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

1 Vara Fritad 1008

COUNTAY

SUMICT

REPORINa, TDOS

DATE DISTA

PRECIDINCA

REFERINCES

DATHOR

DAN ACA

PPRAISAL

THIS IS UNEVALU

LOURCI

т 78892.

FILO RIDORI NO.

IMITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT

ON 2 JUI.Y 1963 (BENE PUJOL) SAIO THAI EVEL IO DUQUE REPEAT

DUQUE MIYAR ANO HIS GROUP, THE EVERCITO CUBAN ANTI-COMUNISTA

:'(ECA, ANTI-COMMUNIST CUBAN ARMY), PLANNEO TO SET OUT IN SEVERA

1: BOATS, AMONG THEM THE VIOLIN. 111, FOR'ONE OF THE KEYS ON THE

NORTHERN ÇOAST OF LAS VILLAS PROVINCE "SOMETIME AFTER THE BTH

Or JULY"

¡ACCORDING TO PUJOLT, WHO WILL CAPTAIN ONE OF THE

BOATS, DUQUE INTENOS TO SET UP A BROADCASTINO STATION ONCE

THE KEY IS SECURED TO INFORM THE CUBAN PEOPLE THAT THEY HAVE

"ESTABL ISHLO "FREE TERRITORY" ON CUBAN SOIL.

179404-977.

lela.

GLASMAICATION - D

MINATION CONTROL

CONFIDENTIAL

INS DIA CONTIACIO MORO DO DeDICAMO

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAA

IKa ORADLETO PATVIOVA ROT

тома

Co#. 952 49--161

z/pd

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CLASSENCATION - DISSEAINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

(TRAN TILLO INI

* 78892

TDES.

2. THE TRUE PURPOSE OF THE MISSION, HOWEVER, CONTINUES iO

BE DUQUEIS FORMERLY STATED AIM TO EMBARRASS THE UNITED STATES

COVERNMENT AND TO FORCE IT INTO DIRECT ACTION AGAINST CUBA.

THROUGH THIS CLANDESTINE RADIO, DUQUE WILL SEEK RECOGNITION

FOR HIS "FREE TERRITORY" FROM THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES

(OAS) AND FROM THE UNITED NATION (UN), WITH THE HOPE OF PUTTING

THE U.S. IN THE MIDDLE. IF DUQUE'S GROUP SEES THAT ITS PETITIONS

CAIN NO RESPUNSE FROM THE DAS AND THE UN, THE GROUP PLANS TO

RETREAT TO THE UNITED STATES. IF THESF. PETITIONS SHOULO

STIR SOME COMMOTION, HOWEVER, THE GROUP WILL 'REMAIN AS LONG

AS ITS POSITION IS TENABLE.

3. (PUJOL) SAID THAT DUQUE'S: GROVUP APPEARS TO MAVE AMPLE

FINANCIAL AID. (PUJOL) SUSPECTS THE AIO COMES DIRECTLY FROM FORMER

PRESIDENT FULGENCIO BATISTA, HE BELIEVES THAT DUQUE HAS NO

INTENTION OF DOING ANY FIGHTING HIMSELF WITHIN CUBA:

WHILE

DUQUE ADMITS THAT HIS CONTACTS INSIDE CUBA ARE FEW, [PUVOL) CLAIMS

THA, DUOUE MAS NO STOMACH FOR REAL FIGHTING.

4. [PUJOL)SAIO THAT IF QUAVE IS SUCCESSFUL IN GETTING HIS

"PREE TERRITORY" RECOQNIZEO, ME WILL INSIST THAT ALL OF THE

REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENTS IN EÀ -E BE CONSTITUTED AS POLITICAL

PARTIES ANO THAT THEIR '"TURN TO A "FREE CURA" BE AUTMORIZED

CONFIDENTIAL

L ASHALAIION - DISSEMALATION CONTROVI

WHEN HILLED INI

LATION

CONTINUATION: 01: TOCS INTERMATION. ALFOAP.

+/MV

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CLASSHKCATION - DISSLALATION CONTIOLS

CONFIDENTIAL

(WARTY TILLED DI)

TOCS.

08

paca

78892

BY THE UNITED. STATES.

5. [RUJOL) SAID THAT ALTHOUGH HE CANNOT ABIDE DUQUE'S EXTREME

ANTI-AMERICAN SENTIMENTS, HE HAS RETURNED TO DUQUE'S SERVICE

. BECAUSE HE CAN FINO NO OTHER ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITY IN WHICH

TO ENGAGE,

6.: FIELO COMMENT: FOR PREVIOUS INFORMATION ON DUQUE AND

HIS PLANS TO ENGAGE IN ANTI-CASTRO, ACTIVITIES, SEE TOCSDE -3/654,974

OF & JUNE, TDCSD8-3/655.035 OF 13 JUNE, AND TOCSDB-3/655,118

OF 17 JUNE 1963.

7

•FIELD DISSEM, CINGSO CINCLANT COMNAVKEYWEST MIAMI REPS

OF STATE FBI IANS CUSTOMS USCO ANO BORDER PATROL.

PEE IN 20138200%

CONFIDENTIAL

tole at

140

INR OF MESSARE

CLABITICATIOM - DISHMHJAILON CONTROW

NEA PATRON

Afa 0t1

CONTANUATION ON TOES INVORMATION AITORT

---

