# 104-10428-10003

## Page 1

AAAAA

T104-10428-10003

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1 June 1981

MEMORANDUM FOR: Information and Privacy Division

Mr. Jon E. Wolfe

FROM

CS/Records Management Officer

Vincent A. Di Benedetto

SUBJECT

Filmed DDO Records for the House Select Committee

on Assassinations.

1.. Attached box contains 72 reels of microfilm which represent

those records reviewed or made available to staff members of the

committee.

Also contained therein

are an index to each reel plus

a Form 4034 prepared by the undersigned.

2.

These records are

forwarded to you for disposition and

inclusion into the DDA collection of records maintained

for the

future use of Congress and the Committee.

You may need to change

the job number on the Form 4034 to one you have set aside for

film.

If you have any questions concerning this transaction,

please contact the undersigned on extension 9079, room 2D11.

Вени

Vincent A. Di Benedetto, JI.

Dand 407

---

## Page 2

13-00000

FILM INDEX FOR CIA/DDO HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS RECORDS.

(Reviewed by House Staff).

1068

REEL #

1-18. True name dossiers. (201 files).

19. Crypt dossiers. Also former COS/Mexico files.?

20-23. Project files.

24. Project files. AlsoGarrison Investigation.

25. Garrison Investigation. Also anti-Castro Organizational files.

26-27. Anti-Castro organizational files.

28. Anti-Castro organizational files. Also CIA Personnel files.

¿ 29. CIA Personnel files.

• 30. CIA Personnel files. Also Mexico Station files.

31-43. Oswald, Lee Harvey 201 file.

44. Oswald, L.H. 201 file. Also miscellaneous 201 files. HTLINGUAL

material.

45. Nosenko file.

46. Nosenko file. Also Mexico City chronos.

-47. Mexico City chronos. $ga

48. Miscellaneous material.

49. Miscellaneous. END OF REVIEWED MATERIAL......

*****************************

---

## Page 3

13-00000

(2)

CIA/DDO Records not reviewed by the HSCA.

REEL #

50-56. True name dossiers.

57-59. CIA personnel filesxuryanixax&*xX

• 60. CIA Personnel files./ Organizations.

61. Organizations. / Nosenko Interrogations.

62.

Nosenko Interrogations. / Organizations.

63-72. Organizations. END OF HSCA MATERIAL......

***************************

16 1 10.106

---

