# 104-10186-10277

## Page 1

104-10186-10277

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 =

IS CANTO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORTA

CENTRAI INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ala malarial macaine Inforcialties adritius the Nathanal Deleno of the lialled Blares alihla the MeADine al lhe Dautonato tarns, Till

which in auy manner to ari innitheriand penana le prohibitod of lat.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

cuba

SUBECT Benigno Carlas CASTELLAR Sanchez

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00687-64

DATE DiSTR 18 AujuSt 1964

NO: PAGES 13

REFERENCES

CATE OF 1964

INtO

PLACE'&

ashi.gton, D. c.

CATE ACQ. AUNu::* ¡ 961

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED, INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who

served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964

Headgunrters Connerts

The following report is one of a serios containing personality

infurmation provided by

source

and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

2

of the individuals mentioned in tho

withou; first chocking with this

Agency

1.

Benigno CArlOS CISTELLAR Sanctez was

prior to April 1904.

Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

sure if he was chief uf

che DGI 1n Mexico, but ho was at

least a DGI officer there.

It is believed that he is still

connected with the DGI.

2. CASTELLAR WilS

pounds, has a strong build, black hair

strong sued. black hair and black ones. 2,3.1,5,6.7,a

Headquarters Comments

1.

The records of this Agency reval that on the night. of

? September 1958, one Benigry CASTELLAR Sanchez, possibly

with the abovr Subject,

was one of twenty-seven

attending a neeting at the homo of Emillo Alfredo!

ARAGONES y Navarro,

a Cuban exile, at Atoyac

25, Mexico, D. F. This information 1s documentary.

2.

A source, untested, in a report dated 29 October 1962,

stated that one Beriguo CASTELLAR, the Cuban Conmercial

Crot

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

I DIA

TARMY NeW

I AIR

INSA

TXXXX

I oce

TEBT •2

REP CINCLANT

sara, field diaribution indicated bu "#".)

INEORMATLON ERERORIAHIN

FORMA NON REBORT.

HE SLIMOB

21

LE/CINADA!

JE, BRITISH

1X-1637 LÝ21;

NO PROJECT ARMIC A2)

+ CSCI-316/00687-61

RIDLAX

WE 1 (2), CI I,

RID 1

LIAISON

wax: 1h

J/BR

---

## Page 2

SECRET

. NO FORFIGN DISSEN

Attache In Mexico and possibly Identical utth Benigno Carlos

CASTELLAR Sanchez, was responsible for buying products in

Mexico for Cuban use.

3. A 10 February 1963, report stated that Benigno CASTELLAR Sanchez

wag the Cuban Commercial Attache in Mexico and a suspected

: G-2 agent.

4.

Benigno Carlos CASTELLAR Sanchez, Cuban Commerical Attachei963,

departed Mexico for labana via Cuban Airlines on 22 March

with his wife and child.

He stated that he expected to retura

to Mexico, This' information was reccived on

25 March 1963,

"Iron a fairly reliablo source.

A report dated 13 June

1963, stated that CASTELLAR returned to Mexico on 4 June 1963.

'5.

A usually fellable source, in a report dated 17 June 1963,

atated that Benigno CASTELLAR Sanchez, the Commercial Attache

of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico and in charge of buying, was

being replaced by Oscar CONCEPCION Mendoza.

CONCEPCION was

expected to arrive in Mexico City on 17 June 1963, and

CASTELLAR planned to leave fifteen days later.

6.

The following biographic Information on Benigno Carlos CASTELLAR

Sanchez was received by a representative of this Agency in

Mexico in a report dated 27 June 1963:

Benigno Carlos CASTELLAR Sanchez, the Commercial Attache

at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico,

was born about 1940,

He carried passport number D/62/479.

His wife, Ada

MARTIN, Fernandez de Castellar, carried passport number

0/62/528. Mis son,

Rafael CASTELLAR MARTINEZ,

carried

jassuort number D/63/1. CASTELLAR arrived in

Mexico

on 27 August 1962, and resided at Alvaro Obregon 123-605,

Mexico, D. F. He was a suspected G-2 Agent.

7. A usually rellaule source with good access to travel information

reported that on 27 August 1963, Benigno CASTELLAR, diplomatic

passport number 62/479; Ada MARTINEZ, diploatic passport number

62/528; and Ratael CASTELLAR, infant

diplomatic passport number

62/528, left Mexico City for

8.

In a report dated August 1963, from a group of Cuban emigre's

trained in the techniques of information collection and who have

provided useful reports for two yoars, provided the following

information on Benigno CASTELLAR Sanchez:

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 3

4-00000

SECHET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 3-0

61316/001.:.1

A Commorical Atlache at the Cuban Embassy in Merico,

born about 1937, is

five four, ten Inches tall, 180

pounds, white,

with

black hair and black eyes. He

has à strong

athletic build and wore a large but

well trammed

mustache.

CASTELLAR is a serious, very

quiet, discreet,

and intelligant man

and

was frequently

In the company

of Carlos RODRIGUEZ Yauget.. He ras

an active momber of the Departmento de Seguridad

del Estado (Department. of State Security - DSE) until

ho was appointed Commercial Attache.

He was always

armed with a pistol.

NO FOREIGN

ECRET

DISSEM

---

