‘4goag____="
104-101 -10169) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 le
E ae) .. , (When Filled In)

TERMINATION SECRECY AGREEMENT ‘i

1. | acknowledge that by virtue of my duties | have been exposed to or the recipient
of classified information, which, in itself, or by the implications drawn from it, is highly sen-
sitive and its unauthorized disclosure or negligent handling could adversely affect the interests
of the United States. [am aware that the unauthorized disclosure of classified information
is prohibited by the Espionage Laws (18 U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798) and that a vi-
olation of these laws may subject me to prosecution by the U. S. Government.

2. | hereby reaffirm my pledge that | will never publish or reveal by any means such
information. 1 agree further that | do not now, nor will I ever, possess any right, interest,
title or claim whatsoever to such information. | recognize the full and vested property right
of the United States in-such matters.

3. | certify that | have surrendered and no longer have in my possession or custody any
classified information or material acquired as a result of this association.

4. | further acknowledge and agree that | have a continuing individual responsibility
to the United States Government for the protection of such information and that the termina-
tion from this relationship with my employer and/or the United States Government does not
relieve me of my obligations under this oath or any other previously executed Secrecy Agree-
ments. 1! understand that | will not be relieved of these obligations except when specifically
advised in writing by the sponsoring activity of the U. S. Government.

5. | understand that this oath may be retained by the U. S. Government for its future
use in any manner within the scope of this oath.

6. | take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion
and in the absence of duress. AETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only
Oo Not Reproduce

C carga. Waggéver te Me

E. ees Hunt

ATURE OF WITNESS lJ SIGNATURE
4

NAME & ADDRESS OF AFFILIATION

24 APR Ze
E-J3.500

TEM 2442 SECRET a

(When Filled In) ve

a - pomiatersesietoseesefetet2P=y mee
