‘Hoa-t0072-10324) * * [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 | Q

‘teem
WEHORANDUM FOR : Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

|

;

ATTENTION 1 Domestic Intell goned, Division,

FROW : Deputy Director for pians & ue H

SUBJECT .} VLADIMIR: SECEN |
"gps RAVLIC

REGISTRATION = INTERNAL SECURITY MATTER

1. Reference is cade to on inquiry to this Agency
from your Buroau concerning Subjecta, yeur Bureau's File
Ko. 105-109036, und this Agency's teletype No. 19754
dated 26 July 1968, Subject: "VLADIMIR SECEN - INTERNAL
SECURITY BOUIBTCAN REPUBLIC,"

2. yor your background information only, VLADIMIR
SECEN was Of! jj from H
1063 to 1966 a5 an occaogi 1 source of inforcation on co
Caribboon matters, SECBH's claim to your Bureau that !
he was involved in a plan to overthrov the Governcont of
Haiti and wao being paid by thio Agency in furtherocve
of this plan io coapletely foloo. However, SECEN did
infora this Ageacy on two occasions that he wea allegodly
involved in ouch a plan.: A roasuce of these ibd follows.

A Colo
3. ono pobvudiy Was fatorcada a Frepresen=-

tative from thig Agency in Minot tha ¢% he had been offered
a post aa, Atary odv&por to an expedition being forned
by Rolondo YASFERRER Rojas, forcer Cubgn Serater, to
depose Preoident DUVALILR of Haiti. >OECEM oaid he refused
tiie post, but loter said that WASPENNBR had rocarked
publicly on several occasions that SCCEN had accepted his
proposition. According to SECEN, thio was e tactic
UASFERRER used to enhance the preatige of his covonent,

4. On 2 Horch 1966, SECEN told a ropreventative of
this Agoncy in Niani that he had been contacted on 22 Feb-
ruary 1966 by one Bile RAVLIC froma Madrid who, occording
to SECEN, was en route to Haiti to perform a aiosion for
President DUVALIER, According to SECEH, RAVLIC stopped in
Nioni to see him. In their meeting, RAVLIC told SECEN that
he had been contucted in mid-February in Madrid by a Domine
{gan national residing in Haiti who was allegedly a confidant

(3 copy

BET :
. a 7

a god! '



14-00000;° + ,

ARN One, Sh ORT, ete

2-

of President DUVALIER, ‘The Doainican told RAVLIC that ;
DUVALIER wanted to see bia regarding VLADIMIR SECEN, an
individual whom DUVALIER suspected of plotting to over-
throw the Governsent of Haiti. DUVALIER wanted RAVLIC
to influence SECEN to stop his Haitian plotting and, if
SECEN agreed, DUVALIER waa willing to offer SECEN a good
jod in the Haitian Governcent. SECEH reportedly told
RAVLIC that he waa not engaged in any plot to overthrow
President DUVALIER apd did not plan to becouse involved.
RAVLIC then told SECEN that he was goiag to Haiti to
report the resulta of bis aicsaion to President DUVALIER;
hovever, when SECEN warned RAVLIC that such a trip warld
be too dangerous, RAVLIC took hie advice and returned to

Spain, me
= ~ hh 249CLE a-
6. The files of thio Agency reflect that wile RAVLIC,

aloo known as Mile RAVLIK de BOGSTICH TEPCEVICH, Hille
\ERAWIT, and Major MILLER, wao born 16 June 1919 in Croatia,
Yuguslavia,and is o naturolized citizen of tae Doainican
Republic. He studied agriculture in Zagreb, Yugoslavia,
iad graduated ao an agronomist. During World War II, he
was o secber of the Croatian Arny. In 1057, he joined
the Doainican Army ag a Major and becane a Lt. Colonel
under Preaidont TRUJILLO. In April 1967, a reliable source
reported that RAVLIC, who traveled on a Doninican Republic
pacoport, wos apparently involved in an import-oxport buai-
feos, but also carried cut political ond inforscation-
gathering aiccions. At that tice RAVLIC wag reported to
have been in Madrid for tha paot conth, but had cade sev-
erol trips to France. Squrce aloo caid that RAVLIC con-
tinged to mafntain contact with the TRUJILLOs. The scot
recent information in this Agency's filos reflecto that in
Soptecber 1067, RAVLIC was reportedly in Paris waiting for
Mra, Juan PERON, At thot tice, RAVLIC told o reliable
source thot he was in buginess with Juan PERG.

6. Although this Agency has no current operational ~
intercot in SECEN, we would appreciate receipt of any in- c :
forcation which your Bureau nay odtain on hig activities
in the Coribbeon area, particularly in the Dominican Repub-
lic and Haiti or reloting to the Cubans.

your Bureau with the underotanding that it will receive no ~~
further dinsenination without prior approval from tibia office
and will not he used in any interviews which your Eureau

=
7. The above information io boing sade available to <_ &
sii

i

might have with SECEN, gi

C&C 1=316/03546-70

ae
iw. om


a SECRET '
Lala)
NO Fer nell DISSEM :
“3-6 s
DD/P/WH/7/Haiti/R. Lehman: pp 27 Novenber 1970
Distribution; Based on: JMWAVE 9407 (IN 65542)
Orig & Hy - Addressee 3 March 1966
+ CI/Lioison
i - CI/RRA JMWAVE 9024 (IN 61062)
' 1 + WH/FI ® February 1966
1 + WH/7/HT Chrono
1 = WH/7/DR Book Dispatch 4681
= WH/Sec 19 November 1964
201-391123
1 - 201-292058 <UFGA 28529, 28 Sept 1967
MADRID) 7171 (IN 57249)
17 February 1966 a
JMWAVE 0221 (IN 69008) |
19 February 1966 j
UFGA 26392, 17 Nov 1966 ||
Project: None.
2 .

a

: poe
wel SScus

NO FOC.

