# 104-10135-10393

## Page 1

104-10135-10393

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFLED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY.

CONFIDENTIAL W

2/20/0

SECRET.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT (Optional)

* FROM:

Robert w.

Gambino.

Director of Security

TO: (Officer designation room' number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

EXTENSION

6777

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

No.

DATE

20 JUL 1978

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

lo witom. Draw a line across column after ech comment)

Legislative! Counsel

At t

S. Breckinridge

6D 15

2.

14.

7.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

610 USE RONOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

O: CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

4-00000

:

SECRET

TOLD 2 13.2/20/3

20 JUL 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Legislative Counsel

ATTENTION:

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

FROM:

Robert W. Gambino

Director

of Security

SUBJECT:

Investigation Regarding Any Use of

Drugs in the Case of Yuriy Nosenko (U)

(S) Forwarded herewith are the results of interviews

and records search conducted by Raymond M. Reardon of the

Office of Security concerning the issue of the possible

use of drugs in the case of Yuriy Nosenko. This material

compiled at your request in order to be prepared for

any inquiries regarding this matter which may be raised by

the House Select Committee on

Assassinations. It is known

that Yuriy Nosenko has

communicated to the House Select

Committee on Assassinations his belief that he was subjected

to the use of drugs during the period of his confinement by

the Agency.

Bus Itole

Robert W. Gambino

Attachment

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 063344

SEGRET

#17111

---

## Page 3

4-00000

SECRET

Investigation Regarding Any Use

of Drugs in the Case of Yuriy Nosenko

On 12 and 13 July 1978, the below listed members of the

Office of Security who served on the teams involved in the

detention and safeguarding of Yuriy Nosenko were interviewed

regarding their knowledge of any possible use of drugs by

Agency personnel during the entire period of incarceration

served at both the

Clinton, Maryland, facility and the facility which was

located at ISOLATION. All of the individuals indicated that

they had no knowledge or reason to believe

other than routine medication were ever administered to

Nosenko

• during the period of his incarceration from April

1964 until October 1967.

Several of the individuals recalled

that Nosenko complained from time to time that his food was

being drugged; however, since they prepared the food they

were certain that this

was not true..

The individuals inter-

viewed were:

3 John J. Bollinger

Martinel11

3 Gregory M. Maruca

3Paul W. Kilbourne]

Joseph F. King

John T. Harrington

3 George P. Grat

Billy Hix

3 LJohn E. Snoddy

2LJoseph

P. Mirabile

3[Robert D. Weekley)

On 20 July 1978 Atherton (Pete) Noyes, III was inter-

viewed concerning any administration of drugs to Nosenko.

Noyes related that he was a junior case officer on the

Vosenko case and was present at Clinton, Maryland, during

the hostile interrogations conducted in April 1965.

He

also present during the interrogation conducted by

Nicholas Stoiaken at ISOLATION during October 1966.

was absolutely certain that no drugs had been administered

to Nosenko during these interrogations. Furthermore, Noyes

was

convinced that no drugs had

ever been administered to

SECRET

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 007472

81g2

---

## Page 4

4-00000

• •

SECRET

Nosenko during the period of his incarceration. Noyes

recalled that

from time to time Nosenko had complained

about being drugged but he did not believe there was any

basis for these complaints.

Noyes recommended that Thomas Ryan of DDO/SE Division

and Paul Dillon, currently assigned

to the Domestic Training

Station, be interviewed for further confirmation of the fact

that no drugs had ever been administered to Nosenko for

other than routine medical purposes.

(Since Mr. Ryan is

currently scheduled to be interviewed by the House Select

Committee

on Assassinations, he has not been interviewed

at this time; however, it is known that Mr. Kyan nas informed

George Kalaris, Chief; SE Division, that he is certain that

no drugs other

than

routine medication were ever administered

to Nosenko.)

The question of whether Nosenko has ever been administered

any drugs for

interrogation purposes has been the subject of

previous

research by the Office of Security.

Attached to this

report is

a memorandum dated 4 August 1975 reporting the

results of the Office of Security's previous research.

This

research, confined basically to a review of the logs

maintained

by the Security personnel in charge of Nosenko's custody,

disclosed no evidence of the use of drugs during any of

Nosenko's

interrogations.

2

SECRET

---

