# 104-10217-10057

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10217-10057

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Tain. Fas

SECRET

81 UN 1961

Director

PadaTal DUTORS Of I

Attentions He. Bo

& Departy Diractor (Plera)

vestigatio

• Paple

If representatives of your suren are st1ll la contact with Blay

CUTIERREZ, MAROJO, Me MOUld AppreCIate yoUr re-LIterulenlas lia ulta

raspact to costela nettera, Along thia lías, de are enclosing hero-

ulth a llat of quentiona to waich us sould ilko to obtala replies.

AtTy aBBLatance you are able to render in this mattor vould be moet

halpful.

C861-3/765,805

ВПСОВУТОІ

WR/4/C1/RWHopkins:ut

12 June 1961

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

I - RI

•CI/REA

CIMIA

WH/4/R

- WH/4/CI

Based on MEtO from C/WB/5

27 March 1961

SECRET

. ES COPY

501-269349

---

## Page 2

14-00000

AMERICAS

Y 20n4ll7s

, Solidaridad Hemistérica ZEi

Noju

•ULIO DE 19531

• 13 DE JENTO DE 196

Natreras:De*

Miami y Florida

151349

LLEGARON A MIAVI LOS COMANDANTES MENOTO Y FLEITAS-Procedenles de la prisina de McAlles, en Texas lle

zaron al Aeropuerto Isteinacional de Miami, los comandanies del Sexundo Frente jacional del Escambray, señores Eloy

Gutiérrez Menojo y José Fleitas, quienes estuvieron internados en la mismo durante varias semanas, tras las insestiga

ciones que se electuabra para dejar aclarada so

situacion.

Tanto Gatiérrez Menojo como Fleitas, declararon que se uBi

sán a los grupos que tortas contra Castro. - (Foto Gorr).

13 Juridi1

11-741349

---

## Page 3

14-00000

•..9

M:5.58

* 40

Eps-Castro Aide

Released by U.S.

BY JASTES BICHAYAS

Morald Stal Triter

Former Castro rebel leader

Doy Gutierrez Menoyo arrived

Ia Miami Sunday with 11 fel-

jon Cuban exiles after almost

five months

desention in

an

immigration Serizoe camp at

BEcAlles, Tex

Greeted by his mile and a

Iwildly cheering tbrong of fel

lor anti-Castro refugpes.

Me

Doyo sald he sad ochers had

• froed "on parole" by the

roserament and probably

permitied

to live

e as polítical extes

menojo, Lesder or the sec-

and Frant of the Escambray

in Las

Villas Province, 1'8s

redited with mascing the biz

perso al Santa Qara in Decem-

ber 1958 which permitted Cas-

tro's torres to ortizhrow Pres-

Joyinl Reunion

..• Menoros as airpor!

dent Fulgencio Batista on the

following New Yerr's Day,

activities against several other

countries, the State Depart

A minjor with Castros posto

ment requested tost normal

retolation

artay.

Menoso

parole procedures be denied

thad the country teat Jan. 26.

charte.

and

with

18

companions,

aronced lo key test la s

Arting with blenoyo from

sTall pomar boas

Texas Sunday pere Armands

Fleitas, Lazaro Asencio and

Tuo days ister the entire

Andres Nazario, all former

sroup was shisked ol to the

deténtion

camp

Castro majors: Evelis Ojero.

al McAlen

Angel

Banos,

Florendio

in to tinen the mote esa

Peter domingo O capt s:

Redondo.

hou-"Jesus de la Rosa and Antel

lieutenante.

Miami Herald -12 Gine 61

п...

,?:.

--::

---

