ARAN
104-10059-10218 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

; =SECRET™
re ee ee

7 February 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 5 pee

SUBJECT-: Réquests-ftom Mr, Ober. for Basic
Documentation Circa Mid-1967

1, Subsequent to his. second appearance before the Rockefeller
Commission on 3 February 1975, Mr. Ober returned to Headquarters
the afternoon of 6 February and the morning of 7 February to
continue his review of the files he had developed while Chief, CI/SO.
At the request of the Commission, he was particularly interested
‘in locating documentation which suppoxted the creation of the Special *
Counterintelligence Operation.

: 2. He had previously taken note of the 15 August 1967
memorandum from the DDP to C/CI but was interested in determining

whether there was any other documentation that could be used. In
this context I showed him the following list of documents which I
had unearthed in: various and sundry places:

TABA 4 August 1967 memorandum from Mr, Fred Vinson, Jr.,
Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division,
Department of Justice to the Director of Central.
Intelligence .

TABB The Director's response to TAB A

TAB C DIRECTOR 25628, 4 August 1967 -- book message oT etared
in WH Division in response to TAB A

TABD WH/COG 67-259, 10 August 1967 -- Memorandum from
Mr, Broe, C/WH Division, to Mr. Houston, General
Counsel, detailing actions taken to respond to the 4 August
letter of Mr. Vinson (TAB A)

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 014848

SENS
SEGHER— Ce

i
IB 7s-0507, |

|
|

i



14-00000

SECRET
oe SENSITIVE

TABE Relay of DIRECTOR 25628, 9 August 1967, to @russels ) |
° a
TAB F DIRECTOR 26741, 10 August 1967, sending essentially
the same message as DIRECTOR 25628 to additional

European stations, s pecifically

Stockhainl

TAB G “DIRECTOR ae il ‘August 1967, to
_Stockholm,)\ asking for cabled replies to
IRECTOR 26741 (TAB F)_

TABH DIRECTOR 32283, 31 August 1967, bearing on
DIRECTOR 26741. (TAB F) oe

TABI 21 September 1967 memorandum from J, Walter Yeagley, -"—

Assistant Attorney General, Internal Security Division,
Department of Justice, to Mr. Lawrence Houston, General
Counsel, CIA - i

TABS” 22 September 1967 memorandum from the General Counsel

to the Director of Current Intelligence, Subject "Stokely
Carmichael" a

TAB K 28 September 1967 memorandum from a Walter iesaiaene
to Mr, Lawrence Houston :

TAB L 28 September 1967 Ce tevanal from om Walter Yeagley
to Mr. Houston

TAB M 3 October 1967 memorandum from Mr. Houston to”
Mr, Yeagley

TABs I through M were located ina file held by the Office of General

Counsel entitled "Stokely Carmichael", The original letter to

Mr, Helms (TAB A) and his reply (TAB B) were located in a file held
by C/WH Division, as was a copy of the memorandum from Mr. Broe
to Mr, Houston (TAB D). The cables (TABs C, E, F, G and H) were
located in DDO/OPS/ITG RYBAT (@HALPHA /(MBPASHA chronos.

SENSITIVE
SECRET



SECRET .
@ seNsiTive  @

3. In the OGC file (Subject: Stokely Carmichae]), there isa
series of memoranda from the DDI to Mr. Houston which is obviously ce
in reply 'to the Department of Justice requests for information on -:
Stokely Carmichael and his travels to Europe and Africa in the fall
of 1967. Mr. Houston obviously served as the point of relay for these
memoranda to the Department bea Justice, uate

4, Mr. Ober's second request was to try to locate
documentation from either the President or the White House to the
Director in mid-to-late October 1967 wherein the President asked. ~
the Director to prepare a study on "International Connections with head
United States Peace Movement". ‘

5. K 31 October 1967 memorandum for the record prepared
by Mr, Ober details a meeting held by C/CI Staff wherein C/CI states
that the President has directed such a study be made and indicates
that the CI Staff will be the DDP unit responsible for providing DDP
information to the DDI which will be charged with writing the study. :

6. A 1 November 1967 memorandum for the record written _.
by Mr, Ober details the first meeting between the DDI and the DDP -
on the subject of this study. Mr, Ober represented the DDP while ©
Mr, Godfrey (Director of OCI), Mr, Lehman and Mr, Peter Dixon Davis
represented the DDI. Mr. Davis was designated by the Director, OCI -
to draft the study. .

7. A third memorandum for the record prepared by Mr. Ober
on 1 November 1967 entitled "Progress Report" details action which
he had taken at the request of Mr. Angleton to set in motion the :
necessary actions to collect information not only from DDP overseas
stations but from other government agencies which would be necessary
in order forthe DDI to properly prepare this study.

8, DIRECTOR 49260, dated 2 November 1967, sent from the
Assistant DDP, Mr. Cord Meyer, slugged RYBAT MHPASHA, levied
the requirement on all field stations to produce information which
could contribute to this study.

SENSITIVE
SECRET



14-00000

9. Iwas unable to locate any document from the, President
or the White House in CI/SO records and finally contacted Mr. Dixon
Davis in OCI, He stated that the DDI has also searched its records
looking for 2 memorandum from the White House requesting.a study
but had been unable to locate one. He did, however, have a copy.of
‘two-memoranda,- apparently prepared'as cover-sheets-to transmit’ ;
the finished study'to the President on I5 November 1967.. Xerox «

SENSITIVE

SECRET =

copies of these two memoranda are attached as TABs N and o.

10. Mr. Ober was specifically desireous of taking copies of
TABs N and O with him to use in his next appearance before the

Rockefeller Commission.

He recognized that, under the current

ground rules, he had to clear this with Mr. Knoche. Iarranged for
Mr. Knoche to call Mr, Ober. As a result of a series of conversations
between Mr. Knoche and Mr. Ober, Mr. White and Mr. Knoche and
myself and Mr, Knoche, Mr. Knoche authorized Mr, Ober to take

could show these tq the Rockefeller Commission but he was not

copies of TABs N and O as reference material. If asked, Mr. Ober :

authorized to leave these papers with the Commission. He was told...

to advise the Commission that, if they wanted copies, they would
have to request same through Mr. Knache. . feat)

11. At the requést of Mr. Knoche, Iam making available a copy
of this memorandum to the Inspector General, specifically, TABs N
and O which Mr. Knoche felt had not previously been made available

to that office.

Attachments

Distribution:
1- 1G, w/atts
1 - Mr. Knoche, w/atts
1 - DC/OPS, w/atts
1 - ADDO, w/atts
1- DCEA, w/atts

Deputy Chief, 1 East Asia ivision

4

SENSITIVE
SECRET
