[104-10194-10018| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

MATERIAL REVIEL

AT CTA HEADQUARTERS BY s.. 5

-SBLECT COMMITTLE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEN

SECRET \
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: Ave ks, GRADLEY EAR) ___-

INCLUSIVE DATES: A Sudy 126Y — 2? O0T /F7Lh

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: _O

Ro: _g 2/3

DELETIONS, “IF ANY:

‘SIGNATURE OF

REVIEWED BY
5 REVIEWING OFFICIAL

—_—_|—
MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

SECRET



efor ano sotrom

Sai cua
[costs atic | | stent

ber 27 E dF é ey,

The man behirid the CIA's

 Cubctn operations tells how he
almost became our man
in Havana.

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

237 Be erent efiiony



: - ce « a
The Wilshington Me. °-Go-Tonnd THE WASHINGTC © ‘OST Sorardey,tor'I7.1921 T)1-

CIA Plotted to Blast Cuba Refinery

sination team actually reached) Yet some of the raiders sur, campus of Miaml University.

By Jack Anderson (Vitnvana roottop witia rilie/sived. One of them. a youn) TROUsN Its donrs passed
‘The ful, fantasti story of Fanse of Cavirm But like the|ex-Atmy captaln nang Dhak wre of the’ allo’ ost
the Bay of Pigs hos been{Others, this squad also. was!ley. Geis, lox emerced {runiy secret eperatives: the dapper
! Yeaught and tortured, fitter emer. ite has given us{Jonn Resell, rusted Bill Har
ccess.to his notes, documents ery. "Rip" Robertson and. &

‘buried for 10 years.deep in the!
Central Inteliigence Agency's’ Refinery Raidt and draft chapters ofa book huge New Mexlean re
fortresslike headquarters neat! Nowe have learned of a[he I writing ebout his raidsimemberet only 58 “The Biz:
Lanstey, Va. {ciX"ptot to blow up Cuba's] for the CIA, Indian”
All the world knows that! most ‘productive ell refinery | “The Cuban experience.” ho|, Ayers got the assignment of:
CtAtroined Cuban exiles! pyineating preparstions were) told us, “has-been a place onjtraining a tough Cuban cadre:
Istormed ashore on a Cuban! mene: anda commande team|the Rational corscience oa itlin the swamps of the Ever.
lbeachhead and were cut tol gas given intensive training [has been nn mine. 1 think (t'siclades and the beaches of the:
leces by Dictator Fidel Cas-| “Vging U2 photos to detaiiea [MEN time that at least parti Keys Ne was supposed to!
tro's militiamen 10 years azo! that trey ahmed every. bush,,0F the story be told.” [teach them enough surf tand
today. But the CIA has con! sts}, “plward Roderick, vaniz i int skiil, underwater swim:
jecaled from the world how tt! Army engineer on toan to the OLA Assignment tu
continued to rend assassina-| Ci, constructed a mockup of] A former paratrooper, pilot ;dling and simple survival for
jon teams and commando: the plant. He even figured out and deraolitiona expert, .Cag-ithem to lead commandos lito:
sauaas against Castro. how’ mortors could’ be spe iain Ayers wes training Tang [Cuba to iow up the multk-
Bit by bit, stories of these|aimed then placed by can trs At-Ealla Air Force Base, nallion doitar refinery. :
{postinvasion sorties are Weak-/mandua in a precise spot and:Fla,, when he received orders! The stary of their night tand-
fing out. We have already re-'fised on the FUM. ito report to the Army's Speinxs in Cuba and the great oil:
yeated, for example, how the! gut he Junked the idea bejein! Activities Group in Wosh-jrefinery firrie-wilt be told in:
cts used swashbuckling unleayse a uman error of anjington. {a future eotumn. 3
[derworld figure, John Rosellidinch or two could send aj ie was put: through physl-! Cy 53 .
to “make “six’ “untuccesttul| mortar shel Inty Inhabited cal, popenitre al fie Geec-| cupstol Conversation
Jassassinauion attempt upon:area, Then the whole plan was|tor examinations for a week,! From the Horse's Mouth —
(Castro. junked after, President Keniinen he. was hustled over to|We have atresdy reported that”?
‘The CIA assigned two! nedy’s assassination: ithe CIA's Cuban section. | Attorney General John Mit-
trusted agents, Billy Harvey] We have also learned that] Me was questioned for three] cheil will resign from the Cab
and “Big Jim” O'Connel, to.th CIA scattered. $20. bills|4oys by CIA. offictals who,,inct to rua Presklent Nixon's:
Jdirect the murder missions. jaround like green confetti to finally satisfied, provided him! 1072 campaign, operating at:
{On the first two trles, Rosel-/finance the clandestine anthiwith a cover ‘atory, phony |first out of his farmer law of:
i's assassins sought to stip,Castro operations, Bales of,documents and a ticket tal fice, Now insiders teil us the
[poison pellets into Castru'simoney were delivered to Miami, He adapted the name| President is considering Wit--7
|feod, The next four attempts:Cudan exile leaders, who Daniel B. Williams and was) lam Ruckelshaus, now the en-.*
[Mere made by sniper teams'gave no socounting of how assizned {a a CIA front called| vironment czar, a8 Mitchell's,
[equipped with highpowered they spent i. Parakon Alp Service. replacement... During his
Belgian rifles, extosives and] “Some were stashed by men! The CIA lodged Ayers and] appearance ca the David Frost ;
rwoway radios. since killed. Other thousands Rexterick In a luxurious beach| Show, Mitchell denied our re~*
‘There were midnight power!were buried in former pirate’nouse In Key Biscayne. The| port that Los Angeles Sheriff
fboat dashes to seeret landing! lairs in the Florida Keys Still,two undercover Army men Peter Pitches had been sound-.*
spots on the Cuban cosst and, more thousands were strewn' worked out of a CIA front—| ed out about taking J, Ed;
machine gun exchanges in the‘on the beaches of Cuba where a columned building with the! Hoover's job. We got the story.
Jdark of night with Cuban\vould.be raiders le(t their rover name of Zenith Techni| jrom a White House alde.-*
patrol boats. The last assas-iboues, 1 Enterprises—on the south} “eagn, aeieuccrte syeaienie Toe

wa, demolition, boat han,



y 7

faeee So-Round THE WASHINGTON POST TiewteyAprl221971 yyy

Telltale Traces of CIA Cache Found

: Ande ied in former pirate lairs in, iowever, he told a sheaf of three
iy Jock Arlerset ee aia eva story and showed us the bonk(billx matted tocether with,
My assoctate Les Whitten records. We aleo checked out/mud and i1rass,
has Just returned from a treas-| Secret CIA Site. tes afeites heehee § sent] The bills were DrcRDAree
ture hunt for burled CIA cash! “One who perked vo his crsinin, ack tothe. Leye T9 Felonld at een ured 99 wrap
fn the Florida Keys whera pt over the whispers wat liudley leaver the CIA money. We noll-|per for the rulteare
rates onco, stashed Spanish A former Army captain, |fied the Treasury Departencat, Trrasury recorda shaw whe
xold. ‘ARS Was on loa to the CIA in]!M generat terms, that all re-lpisin were printed between
| Me found one eache where} 1962-64 to train Cuban assault cscs ver tn tne relousy. Lees Leia
thousands In molding $20 bills] teams, One training site had; tas parectiine annney whlen
had beep burled. But somcone| heen located on Upper Key] Treasure Hunt the CIA continued to provide
[nad reached the sccret site!Larso cn land that the Mon-| Whitten, ‘Ayers and Ayét®'| anu.Canteo exiles. Hut tie sto-
lanead of him, Ail Whitten|"e County tax assessor's of.|wife flew to an alr stp nj ries that led tu the cache came
‘eund were six weathered {fice Wentificd as betonzing to| Upper Key Larso. Using it astin part to Ayers froin Cubans
ithe University ef Miami. {a base of operations, they he help train for the CIA,
matted $20 bills Atat appar-| the CLA also operated outjreconnoltered the dark man)

ently had been dropped about] af a front, called Zenith Tech-|grove thickets, slugaith can- hington Whirl
yards away, nical Enterprises, on the unl-[als, treacherous swampy of sea] i i
Tn an earller column, wo re-| Versio’ south campus. Thus|grass and crocodileinfected| Volunteer Army—Preniden:
ler column, wo Fe-lthe respected university, wit-|crecks where Ayers had uace! Nixon In feading the oppasi-

{ ported that the Central Intell. tingly ur otherwise, provided trained Cuban commantiea, {lon to his own propasal ture
gence Agency had dellvered|the site for an ‘extension volunteer Atmy—at icast for

i ‘ar two days, they eauzged
Bales of $20 bills to Cuban] course in {nfiltration and dem.| through the.creeks In a atal- he next two yours. At a neeret
tarued {White House legislative con

exile: leaders to finance elan-fotition, jowdratt 18-foot skiff, ul
}destine operations against] Avers learned enough from |occosionally by the harks of ference, he warned GOP enn.
Communtst Cuba, his former trainees to fisgure|crocodiles. When they were/sressional Jezilera: “sume

lconvinced no one was folura.| vaien to end the draft muy

‘Assassinaifon. teams, sabo-|out where some of the CIA
ase squads ant commandelmoney gnicht be hidden. He| ing, they plunged throuzh un-| ook popular temporacity. I
units were gent against Castro| told us he discovered a halt-|derbrush "so thick they{in the long view, our reeoa
after the abortive Hays of Pigs! buried suitcase full of mold-jcouldn't see four feet ahead. nendatluns (to extend th
invaston, ‘Theso missions op-/ing, mutiiated $20 bills, Finally they came upon the treft for twa years) will prove
parently wero tialied after| The suitcase was in a re-{bramblecloaked site | where(to be right" White House side
President Kennedy's assasst-|mote pot that he was confi| Ayers said he had discovered Peter Flanizan explsined to
jnstion. But the C1A eontinued| ent wouldn't be discovered, tne suitease, The goll at the,the leaders that “A short fail
cq slip Infiltration ieams into] ite took out a dozen bills to[hiding place had been turnediof 100,000 men fs exyected”
Cuba fo gather intelligence, [make sure they weren't coun:lup and alfted for.10 yards izineat year. He. described the
P'The CIA pald all expenses,|tesfeit, Nanka redeemed alll all directions, The underbrush ladminiatration’és plans ty en-
in cash. Iuge[but wro badly weathered $20[and sea grass were traropied leaurage volunteers hy offering «
bills ns if by many feet innaneial Incentives, Ireluing
was mys-|" The fultcasa fli of cur-la 88,000 henus to thine who
rency was gone. Disappointed, wit re'enlist for eombat ut”,

ad

|apparentty,
Isums were. tured. over to
[Exte waders, who xave no ae Then Ayers! ho

{sOunling of how they spent {t. [teriousiy broken Into and rec:
| There ere whispers that] ords of his find were taken.|they combed the ores. Withir jut he warned thi"

some money had disappeared!/Fearing the CIA or Cuban ex-{a quarter mile, Whitten #50 imean cuts in other vital areas
into private bank accounts,|iles were watehis him, he|ted a tattered $29 biil. AZerS in the Defense Deparment”
{uhat other thousands wero bur-'dared not return to the eache. | found two more, then Whitten!” e uprt, at-ecise Brace, toe



. correct about

2 te pick

fee &

THE SUPPRESSED STORY
now be trid of how the
Central Intellizence Agency
organized a Cubsa exile raid
fon Cuba's key oil refinery’ in
2902 but aborted It after the
assassination of | President
Kennedy.
nsiders sav the corporate
oil giants, hoping eventually
fo recover their propecty In
Cuda, broucht quiet pressure
to quash any raids upon Fe-
Lyadon Johnson,
the raid after
ng dir. Kennedy 1a
ite House, was close
to Texas oil Interests.

We have learned the dra-
matic detafls from Bradley
Ayer, a Sbyear-old
‘Army’ captain, who was se
lected by the’ CIA to train
Cuban exiles for infiltration
and assault missions Includ-
ing the refinery Fold in Ma-
tanzas province.

We have checked out
Ayers’ story with -our own
sources, who’ confirm he is

es, places
and dates. From a group of
pictures, Agers Glo le
out immediately a
Cid undercover operative
who we knew had been in-
voived in the CIA raids
against Cuba.

‘The rugged Ayers, a for-
mer Army ranzer Instructor,
trained the refinery raiders.
‘The recruiting for the mis-
sion had already been com-
pleted before he was as
figned to the project. CIA of:
ficials took him by motor
Jaunch through swampy Ever
fades canals and across the
open sea to secluded Florida
Keys to mect the secruits,

vers and the CIA men se-
lected Palo Alto Key, Upper
Key Largo and Card Sound
on the cdge of the Ever-
flades 38 trainiug | sites.

‘Most of the Cubans, said
Ayers, “were bai ks,
busbovs, waiters. y
laborers, men who had Ged
to the United ‘Many
had never fired a weapon.
They were disorganized and
undiselplined. 1 got the job
of reorganizing the training
program.”

Jack Anderson

ae)

goss

JFL Death: Halted
Cuban Oil Raid

1 AYERS ran_off siriulated
ids near Card Sound
deainst a local Southern Bell
microwave facility with 2
hisn security. fence, Other
nichts, he shared black beans
and rice, drank and sinoked
rot wail his Cutan cadre.
The ractas recruits grads
ually became a fichting team,
Fer firsthand eaperieace, he
gecretly accompanied 10 in
{iitration groups on missions
to Cubs, :
.

‘We went on 8. commer.
clally, ricged trawler, a
feover’ vessel." he sald. “We
ran blackout under a quarter
moon, towint a V.20 tauach, 3
high-powered’ tidergtass boat,
“We exchanced licht siz:
nals with | the partons
ashore in Piear set Rio ond
Iaunehed two rubber boats.
‘The team made contact with
the partisans, and we picked
up a wount
been a pris
Hor the Cuban partisans
were careless with the lights,
“After we got the wounded
man into a tubher boat, we
Were discovered by a Soviet-
tyne patrol erait with sot
Tights. We covered our with:
drawal with mauchineguins
from che V20 boat. Altheuzh
we took easualties, we finally
got back to the trawler, Our
oats were pretty well shot
up.

the way home, we saw
ban fishing eraft flying a
ess fing and ford it had

‘A second sortie to cache
supplies for azents alreat

Ayers was Instructed by the
CIA to make detailed train.
ing plans for the refinery

ders not to lend on Cuba
himself during the rzid, But

he was too emptiv:
volved with the Cun
cause to stay out and wrote:
himself into the plans. “We
were ‘all on a live-for-today
tomorraw.we-die philosophy,”
he explained.

But on tho day of the final
rehearsal, President Kennedy
teas killed, and the CIA or
dered Ayers to shut down the,
operation, “) was tn a sort of
Trauma.” faid the swashbuce
Ming instructor. “I made
{rips to Washington to pleat
the cause of freedom
fighters with the minor ofil
clals TF knew, Rut 1 just got
disappointed and ances

Finally In Qetaber, 1904,

Ayers resigned from active
duty with a long statement
principte to CLA and
Kimty supeciers. “AS a sole
Qier, T had been taueht 1
shouhlet questien, pelts
or diplomatic aetion,
Serato, “But as a frecthinks
ing Amerie cl t
coutda't.,...ssiverdinate
duty. My” country tio
Jonger playing to win, and
jay -doith in the zeats to vehteh
T dedicated my fe was
shaken.”

1971, Besieneclure 69



: : CONFIDENTIAL, wos

(hen Filled tn)

INVITEE APPROVAL

DATE + 6 duly 1964 _

REFERENCE: 23226 (USA)
CASE NO. : 366065
TO t Chief, iD

SUBJECT : AYERS, Bradley E.

1. This is to inform you that clearance is granted te invite
Subject to Headquarters for interviews.

2. This ig not a clearance for Subject's access to classified
material or information.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

¥ Division,

Sone 1173b CONFIDENTIAL, Les

tea



§ CONFIDENTIAL Aaa

en Filled Tm)

if aes SECURITY APPROVAL
i DATE —: - 10 August 196%
i YOUR
ie REFERENCE: 23826 DDP/WH/SA (USA) y}

H CASE NO. : 366085
0 i Director of Personnel

ATTN + MMPD

SUBJECT : AYERS, Bradley Earl

1. This 1s to inform you thut Subject has been upproved for the
appointwent specified in your request under the provisions of
Headquarters Regulations 10-3 and 20-5 including uccess to
classified information through TOP SECRET as required in the
performance of duties,

i 2. Unless arrangements are made within 60 days for entrance on duty
within 120 days, this approval becomes {nvalid.

3. -As part of the entrance on duty processing:

A personal interview in the Office of Security must be arranged.

A personal interview is not necessary.

(7) Please advise Chief, Clearance Branch, extension 5620
when Subject enters on duty.

I
i FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Ld. Leber

Chief, Personnel Security Diviston

1 N73 vesoees

CONFIDENTIAL

pean



26 -creder A

SCTr Goqualified host, uation

‘Tor Te avjutant Loserai (tarcugh channels)
ATM g: AU COR
ispartaent of the Army
Washinton, 0, C, 20315

A. i, kroglay & ayers, Captain, .afavtry, U7L210, herel, tender
ry. usquallfied reanation fren tue immy under tie provisions of section
LIL, Av 635-120, to bo offuctive 20 Leconvor 19th.

2. desire to temier my roai,naticn bezause 1 want te rewura to
civilian lifo end tho pursuit of private enterprise..

3. IL umorstand that this resignation, 1f secoptai, wiil be accepted
undor hoorable conditions, ang that I will bo furnished a d4echorge car-
tificate 33 doternined in tiew:quartors, copartront cf tie army,

L. Prasent cuty station cashington, U, 0.3 Avoignmont US Army Nlexent

Joint support Greup (32-779),
I do dasire appciotment in tho Uilted states army ikoserve. ap-
ob abtachad, i

6, Modical exumination reports, itascard terms be aud 69, dante
furnisnea at & later date, see

tain, Lafastry lec
Una blmy Jt opt Cp (oie? 102)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Add ¢
4 = sfatpp
1 = Agency i
ye

ABAv BLA ema /2735( 26006) Al.

Sau0iy



FINAL CLEARANCE RECORD

CONFIDENTIAL boa

TUPLE BemIaL RO. [eave So CMPLOVEE

366085

AYERS, BRADLEY EARL

arr Ter oF

EOF TH COMPTROLLER

[CT] imance oiveston []riseat orvistow

Tai tematnt

DDP/SAS

REASON FOR CLEARANCE

Cy «trenton

OD cctenore ceave

Cy ores csrecitny

Separation -
rtn to parents

VERTFTCATION OF CERTIFICATION OF OFFICIALS

V CERTIFY THAT | WAVE REVENOCD THE BECOROS OF THIS COMPONENT AMD. TACEPT AB INDICATED,
On HAS SATISFACTORILY OISZSEREID MIS OOLICATION TO THIS COMPONENT,

‘Roow NuwER BLOG, | ELUARED OY

THe EwPLOvEE wav 15 CLEAMED

iagonasde lasmnenioe eeeens ane
crartad pasaetsiae ouinged oe ape a TY pte
3d_F1-159 gfe

Tenonany, on Charaesee & vain)

eneorT union, oF

1J-33, Hgs

\|/ gfe

ReGIaTRAR, OTR

Fiscau otveston.

GH-N408 _Hqs

xit Interview

1337

wee Diy =e
SPINS fe656 (885 South | MD Synee a
saat [errice or stcunirw hero suas
[Trans portat ton 2313 Qtrs Eyd
R&S

Cenrena Crest Stare

TENTS (Date pertaining to ty exceptions to above clearances, ete.)

BOs

CERTIFICATION. AND FORWARDING ADDRESS OF SEPARATING ERPLOYEE

Te ie eer

FORWARDING ADDRESS

itv, Zone, etre

> |"x020 N Owen St, Stillwater, Minnesota

[Nwoee, stacer,

Chiv, Font, State

ut anomie ge
3 ano Tear

vceariry Thar To Tur ecsr

AND OELIEF, ALL Goveanmc:
AM NOT INDESTCO TO THe U

EATY 1SSHEO TO UE HAS DEN RETURNED OR
STATES GoveanuchT wMATSorven ay a RESULT

bare

jaeaee OF Ewrcovee

CERT IN GATION (This fora ia inv,

Td without sutho

d ianntuce)

Given vosireve Vemiricarian oe
COUPONERT. RETURNED OF 4
FOR SETTLEMENT OF any INOCO)

To THe w

THIS US-YO CORTIeY THAT THE APSVE LISTED CowpoNeNT OFFICIALS at

ENCY.

THOSE LISTED OW FoRW 214 Cor their denignees) HAVE
JCATION TraT THE SEPAPATING EMPLOYEE HAS DISCHARGED HIS OBLIGATIONS TO THE
FOR ANY FUNDS OR PROPERTY AMICH HAS BCEN ISSUED TO HIM, OF SATISFACTORILY APRANCED

Usdecb

SOUT Qi ossonere eatye ses courses

Tite

[Bajer, Int
CONFIDERTIAL

DC, Army, Navy x “arine Corps Br, PD

ton


oped 163

ofits ine grtaeny

em

=



SECRET ae
(When Filled Ia) - Sua!

OLS: ce DEC BY : :

Fa) NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

T stent REOIE

366085 AYERS BRADLEY €

1 aFUEE oF Feasownt ccTOw

SEPARATION RETURN TO PARENT SERVICE
7. COST CEWTER WO, GUARGEANLE / ‘of

i [vwr [ [ewe ©
: roms guy (x | #wa [5135 1164 A000

7 awd (ast asT TONLE)

TS GitcoeT oF EuriorueNT

ILITARY

ie cen aoiwoNTY

pas nro Te LOCATION OF GFFICAT STATION
U.S. FIELO : ia

FORWARD OPERATIONS STATION - UMWAVE
PARAMILITARY BRANCH - SECTION 111
RESISTANCE, CRC INDEP POL GROUPS IMWAVE

TW RaiTR TRE ana RoE haa
PARAMIL OF j1053 ia)

Te aT HAUTE TH, TH ed TH ara TERT GE HF Tie aa at ae
MI 6136.11 lo3 0 | 782.00

ati, ~~ ae SEE Saaaaasesesesnetecetnsiina EEE satan

: TT Tae
‘eestor [R._OFFE COORG Siete 74 agi Tes. onft ov oman] 27 oaTE OF LE
were crerryrarrs coe (0E (ete Corr ve | we. oe cr wo. on 1.
| | 03,07;35] 1 eect
[2 SPCCAL 130, RETIAEMENT OaTA” M1. SEPARATION | 32 CORRECTION /CANCEL LATION ota | “3, SECURITY | 36. SEX
fo eereetMe age Peese oan aoe apes oe 0. 0,
[oes GAN vy
SEAV. COMP. OATE | 7. 10MG, COMP. OATE : SB CAREER CATEGORY v FOG] WEALTN INSURANCE 40. SOCAL SECURITE 9.
Ceig 2 [ioe
yah ave Gti a ‘Feoeet tax ATA fe Stave tat data
iHEHH fet ecomad feat wo Van teem rion ed

ree eae
{Fete Fela

t i

aan
(en Fed fa) +

es Yee Previous SECRET Sit



SECRET

\
(Dhen Fitted tay

\
en

Dae vereaenD

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION |

Sravac mumace |? Nawe (Lael:Firetwiddle)

BEE

~ MATURE OF PERSONNEL AC

3. €atecaay OF EuPLoWweNT

We fis te

viov vivo cF 7. cost CentER nO, CuaRG. fA. UL
+ FUNDS —{ sac
crtoy x [er toe SUI 18

7 ORGANIZATIONAL DEBLGHAT IONS

iC AuynGa ity (Completed Bp
janet)

THAD CP aAT.G.3
PAA Loita e

Tes PoitiaN WuMOEA [19s CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

Wess
Ve. Gare an STEP TT. Satany OR RATE

pal

Te. Aewaaas

h- SUGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

SUGAATURE GF GAFER SFAVICE APPROVING [OATE STONED
errices

OF PERSONNEL

S OFFIC

Space neLow FOr pxcTinive We OFT
Bas ma [Pe
se

Foe I TR

a Toe

Tester, oe, tile EecuregtT

fitee ea

Ce TNE ste toi asi 1

Ta Fabien GonTaGT CERT TF TEMTIOn
a
dae SAS

Oty 1182 Shans Wane Herc SECRET


SECRET

(ween PILeo ind

SEPARATION

TORTS anim] SIO TICE

| Inatcuctor (Prcht)_ i Captain

7. BRANEH

I ‘A
obIvision

RAR Stone —

RRA Renee comeanneN oatET oR wesieRATION

Date of Agsignment to CIA
shat Wa tics ————— va Ba Re PRES
Lt Col Santangelo

9 December 1964

13 RanARKO

Milltary Specialty - Prcht Instructor (71542)

Reason for Leaving - Return to Parent service

Captain Ayers stated that his military specialty was fully
utilized, his grade was consistent with his job and his rehdtions
with co-workers were gcoc. Subject also stated that he felt his

assignment required an active duty military person.

ts LJ is Nor mecommanceo rom RE-EewPLorMenT

P. A, SANTANGELO
Lt Colonel, Inf, USA

‘Hanavate Ge PandonnEL RELATIONS OFPICER

TUB 971 SESS

SECRET w



ines eee :

teeta at tna atthe aetna on

PAloe
Ge A
