# 104-10186-10345

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10345

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

•DORMONITOR ANNAMON RETON

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Thia matarlal costalne Information aderina the Nallooni Defense of lha United Bratre missin the meanine of the Eavionnao Lana tile

18. UBC

723

And

72l, trio sraranialon or rerelatiod of

which in any manner to as

unauthented perers la prohibited by lame

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Cubana Airlines

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS CI -316/ 02270-65

26 May 1965

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce •

DATE OF

1961

INFO.

Washington, D. C.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. February 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

TMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

• Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information trom the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checiing with this Agency.

1. Almost all of the Cubana Airlines personnel belong to

or wor's with the Departmento de Seguridad del Estado

(Department of State Security - DSE).

However, what services

Cubana personnel perform for the intelligence agencies are

not known.

?. According to source, when the Cuban government first

too: over Cubana Airlines,

the personnel chief of the new

administration Interviewed girls from the G-2 office for

positions as stewardesses.

3

2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I ARMY

REP

CINCLART CISCSO TENS

(Nato, flold divribution indicated by ''#".)

INHORMATION REPORT

HII/C/CA

_EL/LIA

ICI/R&A

15-2

RID/AN

INSA

7X8XX

T ося

T FBI 2

INFORMADON REPORT.

MIEALANADAI

CIEBRITISINN

WWASHBR1iI

I LX 2425

NO PROJECT (ASHUO,1)

CSCI-316/02270-05

MIL/C/RRLOS 5/

WH/WAVE

TOTALS W11/C 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CI 4, RIDI

bIAIsON #

LD: sik

ICE/RNA

19-5-1

---

