104-10186-10149 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

. q ade CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
i . ‘Thm material contains tnformation afecting the Natioual Defense of <r Cuiwed States enn the meaning of the Kepionage La
BLES eeceaH3 and THe the Cnenioete of reveation of Whe me Aay wannet Ae a omuihoriand yereoa le probibiled BF ine
$-E-C-R-5-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN
Country Cuba t : REPORT NOL CS -311/00115-64
SUBECT The Organization of the General . oaTeDSTR = 8 July 1964
Directorate of Intelligence .
(Direccion General de NO, PAGES Wy
Inteligencia - 0GI) :
REFERENCES,
RETURN TO CIA
DATE OF ©1964 , \ : Background Use Only ©
INFO. i Reproduce
PLACE & ee : Qn Not
FIELD REPOST NO.

DATE ACQ. June 1984
TRIS 1S_UNEVALUATED SSORMATION SOUICE GRADINGS ARE OGRNITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE,

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intell-
gence Service until April 1964,

. Headquarters Comment. The following information, as reported y
by sai Source during a debriefing, includes a description of the

Gencral Dirceturate' of Intelligence (Direccion General de
= DGI), a break-down of each of its departments,

Inteligencis .
© functions of vach department, a diagram (Chart A) of the

organization of the DGI, and a map (Chart B) of the DGI com-

pound in Habana. :

Introduction.

1. The General ae na of Intelligeace {Direccion General de
Intelligencia ~ DGI) ts the Cuban external intelligence agency,
charged with maintaining security, collecting information,
and promoting Cuban Government iatelligence policies abroad,
It is part of the Ministry of Interior (Ministerjo del Inte+
rior), and was established sometime in mdciser Tt is con-
cerned only with operations abroad. The collection of
intelligence within Cuba, counteriatelligence, and security
are the responsibility of the Department of State Security
(Departamento de Seguridad del Estado - DSS). The two agencies
are independent but maintain liaison and coordination on cer-
tain matters,

2. The DGI, also krown as "M," or "X Department," is organized
under a’director general and his deputy; its components are
a main headquarters with administrative and personnel offices, ,
eight departments, and the director's office (see organization
chart of page 14).2  [t is closely gennected with Ramiro Valdes
Menendez, the Minister of Interior,> and is also of conttnuing
interest to Fidel Castro, Raul Castro, and Ernesto "Che" Guavara,

s 5

4 4

3 S-E~C-R-E-T 3

2 NO FOREIGN DISSEM ?
[arate Tow Tawar Trav Tae Tee Tas Toce TFB Ey
REPCINCLANT  CINCSO #I&NST 7 on

H (ete: Rodd deren lndlegied by “9D

EX=1S25-
NP (AMMUG-1)
CS-311/00115-64



c2fpy

Hdgrs Dissem

WH/COPS
WH/PO/A
WH/PO/B
WH/RO,
WH/SA/EOB
WH/SA/MOB
WH/SA/R
WH/SA/CI 2
WH/1

WH/2

WH/3

WH/4

WH/S:

WH/6 -
WH/R

Cr Staff
CI Liaison
CI/REA
RID/AN

AF/1
AF/2
AF/3
AF/4
AF/R
AF/CL

EE/K
EE/SA
EE/BR
EE/YA
EE/H
EE/P
EE/C
EE/IIS
EE/CL

FE/PMI/1
FE/JKO/JO
FE/JKO/K
FE/¥NC/VN
FE/R
FE/CI

ee ee

n

Boer

Pe Oe

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

NE/AA/L&S -
NE/AA/AP
NE/AA/E
NE/AA/T
NE/S/P
NE/G/C&E

z
5
<
6
2
tt a tet et te Bare

WE/R

Field Dissem ~

WH/MEXT
WH/MNTY
WH/MRID
WH/SDOM
WH/SNDR
Wi/SJAN
WH/P1BO
WH/POSN
WH/KNGS
Wi/PRIN
Wit/GORG
Wit/PACY
WH/MANA
WH/SJOS
WH/SALY
WH/TEGU
WH/GUAT
WH/LAPA
WH/BOGO
WH/QUIT
WH/GAYA
WH/LIMA
WH/CARA
WH/BUEN
WH/COBA
WH/MONT

eee et eer ry

SECRET

WH/WAVE

AF/ALGI
AF/ORNA
AE/RABA
AF/CASB
AF/ACCR
AF/CSRY “
AF/BAKO
AF/DARE

EE/VIEN
EE/SBUR
EE/CYRU
EE/ATHE
EE/KAVA
EE/SLON
EE/BERN
EE/GNVA
EE/ZURI
EE/SOFI
EE//BELG
EE/ZAGR
EE/BUDA
EE/POLE
EE/PRAG
EE/BCHA

FE/DJAK

FE/MEDN *

& /SURA
E/TOKY)
FE/OKIE
PE/SEOQU
FE/SAIG
FE/KOBE

NO FORN DISSEM

CS-311/00115-64

zl
m
S$
Z
=]
B
B

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
earn
1
1 1
1 1
1 4 1
1 WE/HAGU Gat 1
1 E/OSLO}e 1
1 WE/LISB 1
1 NE/MADR 1
a WE/BAR 1
1 E/' wt
1 WE/LOND iL
1 WE/PART) 1
1 14
1
1
1
caaaeie)
1
1

24
(Liaiso Dissem

mfg u
:CMP).
ritish) | H
L/WASHABR)\\ 1

1
Ds

—


‘with him all expenditures of large sum:

a
DISSEM
gaat CS-311 00115-64

The Director's Office.
Sacra nee URE SPST ‘

The dircetor general of the DG is Manuel PINEIRO Lesada, known

as ‘Red Beard” iarba Roja).* He is closely associated with
Ramiro VALDE:

ss at any time; he is
TRO and to coordinate
and he alsu has direct
contact with GUEVARA, Raul CASTRO often visits PINEIRO's office;
his principal interest appears to be the guerrilla schovls (see
below), but he may have others in the DGI, PINEIRO also handled
the principal contacts with the Soviet advisors of the DGI. His
direction of the DGI is handled through a deputy. but he also
has dir contact as desired with department chiefs and lower-
level personnel: chiefs of field stations report directly to him,
although other ficld-station business is handled through the
departments’ responsible for field work, PINEIRO himself has
trained some important agents in field work and has subsequently
acted as their handling officer.

to whem he has direct ace
required to report regularly to Fidel CA

PINEIRO has his office in his residence at 41st Avenue and

18th Street in the Miramar district of Habana.. There he keeps -
functional files of everything concerning the DGI; other files
from individual sections are brought to him for review and then
returned to the department or section that maintains them,

There is a daily courier service between his house and the DGI
headquarters. The house has at least two separate telephones,
one personal and one official, the latter providing direct com-
munication with all,government agencies. One of the telephone
numbers is 29-4257.5 The outside entrance of the house always
has two guards in olive-green uniforms; they are probably from
the DSE, In addition, PINEIRO has a bodyguard staff of six, also
probably from the DSE, Three of them are always with nim on 24-
hour shifts: one acts as chauffeur when he goes out. while the
other two follow in a sccond car, He keeps three cars, all 1961
Oldsmobiles, one blue, one beige, and one black.

In his hone office PINEIRO has an aide, pseudonym "Castor ,"6 who
handles the office work but does not attend private interviews,
In Cuba he stays in the office and does not accompany PINEIRO
outside the office. When PINEIRO travels abroad, "Castor" ac~
companies him, as for example on his visit to Moscow in April
1964. At the main DG headquarters. PINEIRO also has a secre-
tary, pseudonym "Vidalina," and a clerk-typist, pseudonym
"Zoraida"; they oceupy desks in the executive office of the DGI
deputy chief but work strictly for PINEIRO, “Vidalina" handles
all incoming and outgoing correspondence and cable traffic and
distributes it both within DGI headquarters and abroad.

DGI_ Main Headquarters.

The main headquarters of the directorate is known as "Department
M" of the Ministry of Interor, but very few people know any-
thing about it or are even aware of its existence. It occuples

a house and grounds which were formerly the property of the GOMEZ
Mena family. It covers a whole city block bounded by 49th and
Bist Avenues and 78th and 80th Streets in the Lorrazatal section ©
of the Marianao suburb of Habana, The block is a compound sur-
rounded by a concrete wall, with trees planted completely around
it inside, There are two entrances:, a main entrance with wooden

. SECRET
‘ NO FORN DISSEN


-3- CS-311/00215-64

gates located ne the center of the block on 80th Street and a
back entrance with steel doors located directly through the
block on 78th Street. The wain entrance is manned by guards
armed with PPShA machineguns; the rear entrance is kept locked
and is used only in emergencies. No pass or identification is
required to enter the grousds.

The headquarters compound (see diagram on page 15) contains all
the DGI offices except PINEIRO's home office, the three opera-
tional departments. and the Special Schools Department. described
below. The main building, called M Building, is situated near
the center of the compound but off the main axis between the
gates. It houses most of-the offices in its two stories and also
contains a canteen, public telephones, and a police radio for the
city and the Ministry of Interior. There are no large assembly
rooms; conferences are held in small rooms. Within the compound,
separated from M Building by driveways and parking lots, are -
several other structures: : ‘

a. A two-story building housing the Personnel Department on the .
first floor and the Inspection Department on the second. = i

b. Three one-story service buildings: a guard office with
sleeping quarters for 20 to 25 guards, a food-storage ware-
house, and a clothing-storage warehouse. The guard office
and'the Personnel-Inspection building flank the main entrance

on 80th Street. \

c. A two-story building, in the angle of the grounds formed by |
78th Street and 49th Avenue, housing the Technical Operational
Support Department. Two of its sections, the Photographic
Laboratory and the Concealment Device Section, occupy indi-
vidual buildings in the compound.

General administration of the DCI is handled from the M Building,
where PINEIRO's deputy, (fnu) CHAIN,7 pseudonym "Agusto," has

his office. Besides acting as director general when PINEIRO is
away from Cuba. CHAIN is responsible specifically for management
of large expenditures, South American affairs, and the approval
of false passports for travelers. He signs, in pseudonym, all
notices and circulars issued to the directorate. His secretary
has the pseudonym "Georgina." CHAIN's office, through "Vidalina,"
distributes cable traffic to the DGI departments. Incoming and
outgoing cable traffic and diplomatic pouch traffic are received
at this office from the Central Ciphering Service (Servicio
Central de Cifrados - SCC), which is a communal coding and de-
coding service operated by the DSE. CHAIN's office apparently
also acts as a recciving and distributing center for clandestine
cadio traffic but does not itself send or receive radio messages;
the actual transmission is possibly controlled by the Communist
Party.

Directly under the deputy director are two administrative depart-
ments for staff members, Personnel (Departamento de Personal) and
Inspection (Departamento de Inspeccion), which occupy a Separate
building in tne headquarters compound. The Personnel Department,
headed by pseudonym "Pelayo," which handles all matters concerning
staff member administration (selection, hiring, pay, promotion,
dismissal, social security, etc.), has about 14 or 15 members.

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM



10,

: SECRET
NO FORN DISSEX

-~46 S-311/00115-64

The Inspection Departaent, héaded by pseudonym “Dario,” which is
responsible for discipline in the directorate and for investiga-
tions of staff personnel, probably before hiring, has 10 to 12
members. Both department.chiefs are probably former members of
the DSE, and sone of the Office staff are also forner DSE members.

Soviet Advisors. :

Attached to the DGI headquarters is a group of Soviet advisors,
who occupy offices ia NM Building. Their presence and identities
are kept as secret as-possible, even anorg the officers who work
with them, and they are-khown only by pseudonyms, They have
especially close contacts with Manuel PINEIRO and CHAIN, ‘and
with the Illegal-Departnent, whose officers can consult directly.
with them at any tine. Ordinary desk officers in other depart-

“ments cap consult the Soviet Advisors only at their offices. in
‘M Building, where no spectal security precautions are observed,

But they do not see ‘much af ‘them except when visiting the

" BMlegal Department whea tho:advisors are working there. The

‘Soviets can visit any department whenever they wish.

YaFoimation obtained by DGI agents abroad can be passed to the | -
Soviet advisors.8 The five known are the following?

“S1 Frances" (The Frenchman), PINRIRO's personal advisor,
is apparently the chief Soviet advisor in Cuba. He has
an office in M Building and frequently visits PINBIRO's
house. He was born between 1909 and 1914; is about five
feet seven inches tall and of medium build; has very grey,
hair; has blue eyes with bags under them; and wears at all
times gold-framed glasses with small-to-mediun round. lenses.
“His Spanish is fairly good. He hes a car assigned by the
;Cuban government and drives it binself.

b. A Soviat man, name unknown, accompanies "El Frances." He
is five feet eight inches tall, is of medium to thin build,
weighing about 145 pounds, and is clean shaven, An officer
who saw him frequently at DGI headquarters hever heard him

speak,

c. "Juan," who shares an M Building office with "Bl Frances"
“put works principally in the Illegal Department, is the
consultant on illegal operations, directs the recruitment
and handling of agents, arranges their entry and cover, and .
maintains files. At one time he spent about six months in
France} the general impression is that be was ther? as an
illegal resident rather than in the Soviet Emtassy. He
speaks excellent Spanish with very little accent 2nd ap-
parently has known the language a long tine. He too has a
car assigned by the Cuban governnent and crives it hinself.
Ho was born between 1919 and 1924 and is an active, athletic
man, about six feet tall and weighing a husky 200 pounds,
with biue eyes. He looks young, although bis hair is grey,
as is the short-clipped mustache he wears low on his Lip.

ad. 4 Soviet woman, nama unknown, works in the Department of
Technical Operational Support (ui). She vas hora tatween
1929 and 1934, is five feet seven or sight inches tall, is
stout but not fat, has blue eyes and s.tost shculder-length

SECRET
KO FORN DISSSU


14.

15.

16.

17.

ceaee serey CS-311/00115-64

American countries usually goes first to Mexico and is forwarded
from there} Mexico is also a meeting place for operations of-
ficers from Cuba and agents trom Central and South America;
Canada similarly serves as a meeting place for agents from the
United States. Legal field stations do not normally deal with
illegal agents except in a great emergency.

In all legal field stations, the DGI representative is charged
with keeping track of, checking, and reporting on the political
activities of the other members of the mission to which he is
attached. DGI officers also assist with the political classes
and lectures held periodically for members. of the mission, but
this is a task shared by all mission members and is not assigned
to any officer specifically, Physical security, such as techni-
cal cxamination of Cuban premises for audio surveillance devices,
is not a DGI responsibility; it is performed by the DSE.

In countrics with which Cuba does not have diplomatic relations,
DGI activities are handled by agents stationed permanently -in
the, country as illegal agents or as members of Communist Parties
and leftist groups. Their assignments are sabotage, subversion,
selection and training of guerrilla warfare candidates and other
agents or groups in Latin America primarily, The DGI regards
Guatemala and Venézuela as the countries in which its operations
have been ost successful, Such field operations are run from
Cuba or from an adjacent country. .

The Department of Legal Centers (Departamento Centros Legales -
NS). The MS department is headed by Pedro FARINAS Diaz. pseu-
donym “Otoniel,"” and has a staff of 15 to 20 persons. Its
offices are not in the M Building compound, but in a building
at the corner of 31st Avenue and 64th Street in the Marianao
suburb of Habana. The department is in charge of the field
stations, known as legal centers, in cach country with which
Cuba has diplomatic relations or where she maintains commercial
missions. Its personnel are not assigned abroad as a rule:
they act as the service group at headquarters for field person-
nel drawn from any part of the DGI. Ficld station chiefs, as
noted above, report directly to PINEIRO; the NS Department takes
care of all paper work for the field stations, including photo-
graphing incoming and outgoing documents; maintaining files of
field correspondence; and handling coded radio communications.
Coded radio messages prepared by desk officers are photographed
and sent to the field on microfilm and messages on microfilm
received from the field are decoded and passed to the proper
department; MS does not do the decoding itself. The department
does not have its own radio station. It does not run any agents
abroad; it does, however, assign dead drops and explain their
use to ficld agents, mostly those of the Illegal Department

The Illegal Department (Departamento Ilegal), The department is
headed by pseudonym “Lucio. who directs operations rather than
dealimg directly with agents: his deputy is Santiago PEREZ, pseu-

donym "Rolo." The staff of about 20 persons is responsible for
handling "illegal" agents, that is. agents of all nationalities
The de-

whose activities and connections with Cuba are secret.
partment recruits the agent; arranges for his training, means
of clandestine communication, and travel to his assigned area;
and thereafter directs, supports, and maintains communication

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM


12.

13,

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

-5- CS-311, 00115

reddish brown hair. She is ugly and dowdy, wearitig low heels
and a Soviet-style dress, like a peasant 's. :

on South American opera-

A Soviet man, name unknown, wor!
tions in the Illegal Department,

donal De:

Ope ments.

Of the eight departments making up the headquarters, three are
operational, four are concerned with operational support or
training, and one is administrative. The three operational de-
partments are Legal Centers (Centros Legales - MS), Illegal
(Llegal), and National Liberation (Liberacion Nacional - LN);

the last two were formerly a single department, Known as MA
(Intelligence). All three departments handle operations abroad
for the purpose of collecting information on the host’ country,
promoting Cuban political aims, and conducting subversive ac-
tivities. Their operations are distinguished by two factors,
legal connections and “Communist Party-leftist group liaison.

The Department of Legal Centers is responsible for operatioas
conducted through Cuban official missions in countries with which
Cuba has diplomatic relations and has normally nothing to do with
illegal agents. The other two departments handle illegal agents,
both in. countries with which Cuba has relations and in those with
which she has none. . The Illegal Department has no connection
with Communist Parties or organized leftist groups abroad; the
National Liberation Department deals mainly with such parties
and groups; the Department of Legal Centers may work with them
or unilaterally. All three departments are organized in geo-
graphical divisions with area desks for each country within
their respective fields or responsibility; there is thus some
overlapping in desk coverage.

The DGI has two types of overseas intelligence operations (as
distinct from guerrilla warfare operations covered below in
paragraphs 19 and 20): legal field stations and illegal agents.
The legal field station exists in every country with which Cuba
has diplomatic relations; its personnel are members of the local
Cuban diplomatic, consular, or trade mission. Officers are
selected from all parts of the DGI organization; no distinction
is made, for exdmple, between officers from the Illegal Depart-
ment and the National Liberation Department, but each person
assigned overseas performs whatever duties the local situation
requires. Field station chiefs report directly to PINEIRO, but
administration gocs through other channels, as explained below.
Field stations vary in size, depending on local objectives and
the quality of diplomatic relations. In Soviet Bloc countries,
for example, field stations are usually small, with only one or
two officers, who have no intelligence collection or similar

“ responsibility but are cnarged principally with aiding travelers

to Cuba and with liaison with the local intelligence service.

In countries outside the Soviet Bloc, legal field stations have
various responsibilities; in Latin America, their principal ac-
tivitics are promotion and direction of subversion and sabotage
and arrangements for guerrilla warfare. The largest field

station is 1n Mexico, which is important because it ts a major
transit point for both personnel and materials, and because it
is a contact puint for any leftist organization of any country
which has representatives in Mexicd. Material foc other Latin

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM


18.

19,

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

3ii ‘OOi115-64

-7- Cs.

with him throughout his active tenure. [t docs not deal with
members of Communist Parties or leftist organizations, nor with
persons in contact with official Cuban personnel abroad, who are
responsidilities of other departments; the mechanics of com-
tion are also handled elsewhere, Agents are stationed in
ce Kupa is interested in collectiag information,

aliicy
penetrating the government, or conducting subversive operations,

in Europe and Central and South America, The department has 20
agents in Asian or African countries, and no agents are known ia
the United States:!3 Agents once trained usually remain perma-
nently abroad, -.If they are in an area where there is a legal
field station, they do not normally have any contact with its

members.

The Illegal Department is divided into three main geographical
sections, cach subdivided into country desks, as follows:

a. Section A, Europe, chief unknown; under this section there
are desks for all countries.

b. Section B, Central America, chief Ramon Cesar CUJENCA Montoto
(no pseudonym), who was formerly stationed in Mexico. His
deputy is pseudonym "Mike." © Country desks include Costa
Rica, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, .
Nicaragua, Panama, and El Salvador. Section personnel in=
cluded officers Fernando PASCUAL Perez, pseudonym "Alejandro";
Saul GONZALEZ, pseudonym "Denis"; Gustavo (nu). pseudonym
"Lino"; Paulino (Inu), pseudonym "Mauricio"; Rafael GUZMAN,
pseudonym "Rolando"; (fnu) RELOBA, pseudonym "Wilfredo";
apprentices (practicantes) Miguel Angel (1nu), pseudonym
"Miguel"; Omar (Inu), pscudonym “Oscar"; Raul GONZALEZ,
pseudonym "Olexis"; and Francisco (Inu), pseudonym "Tino."
Their desk assignments were not known,

ce. Section C, South America, chief unknown. “Country desks in-
clude Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador,
Paraguay,. Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela, and British Guiana. Two
officers in the section were pseudonym "Ulises," formerly
perhaps in Chile, and pseudonym "Juan Carlos," possibly
formerly in Peru, Both were returned to Cuba for discipli-
nary reasons; they may have been assjgned to the desks for
the countries where they had served.

The National Liberation Department (Departamento de Liberacion
Nacional - he department hac no chief; officers wishing
advice consult Major Guillermo JIMENEZ, pseudonym “Javier ," who
is head of the Central American Section of the department. or,
in his absence, go directly to Manuel PINEIRO or his deputy,
CHAIN, The department offices occupy two two-story buildings at
6610 and 6612 7th Avenue, between GGth and 70th Streets, in the
Ampliacion de Almendares section of the Miramar district of
Habana. The department, which is one of the largest in the DGI,
is responsible for promotion and direction of revolutionary ac-
tivity, including guerrilla warfare. It acts mostly in coopera
tion with Communist Parties or organized leftist groups. but
conducts some operations unilaterally without local coordination.
Among its activities are the recruitment, arrangement of travel
to and from Cuba and training in Cuba, and the direction and
support of guerrilla fighters in its target countries. Since

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM


20.

African countries

-38- CS-311/00115-64

ot concerned with revolutions in European, Asian, or
it concentiates mostly on Latin American
opt thuse that maintain diplomatic relations
with Cita. though the department has no African interests,
Zanzituris were trained in Cuba; the arrangements were handled
outside the DGI by Fidel CASTRO himself, with the particspation
of Manuel PINEIRO, In addition to its guerrilla work, the
department, without the knowledge of the Communist Parties or
gtoups with which it cooperates, recruits and arranges training
of agehts to collect information in the target countries, Can=

" didates for such intelligence agents are guerrilla warfare

trainees. or persons proposed by the operational support depart-
ments (MO Department and the BC Section of the SI Department --

see below).

The LN Department is divided into three sections, one support
and administrative, the other two geographical with country

desks.

Central Processing Section (Tramites), headed by Felix
Rafael (inu), pseudonym “Alberto,” is the administrative
office for the LN Department and the only office in the DGI
handling travel arrangements. It plans and arranges travel
for DGI staff officers of all departments, agents, and
trainees, furnishes operational funds for travel, and makes
the actual travel reservations ani provides plane tickets
for travelers. It also obtains passports in false names for
Cuban staff members, issues Cuban passports in false names
to agents, and obtains visas from the Czechoslovakian Embassy.
In agent travel. it works closely with the Cuban Institute
of Friendship with Peoples (Instituto Cubano del Amistad con
los Pueblos - ICAP), which arranges some aspects of trave:
for trainees. The section chief has his office in the LN
Department but works mainly from the DGI headquarters in M
Building; his wife, Elva (1nu), pseudonym "Elisa," 16 a
typist in the LN Department. The section staff consists of
administration chief Eulogio PONS, pseudonym "Eloy"; his
assistant, pseudonym “Henry";.an office clerk, Carmen
CARRACEDO, pseudonym "Mercedes"; two drivers, Juan PEREZ,
pseudonym "Raul," and pseudonym "Manuel"; and Felix Rafael's
Secretary, pseudonym "Norma,"and assistant, Draco or Draque
ESCALANTE, pseudonym "Ciro." :

b. Central American Section (Seceton Central) is supervised by
Major Guillermo JIMENEZ, who is head of the Department of
Information Services (SI) and acts as advisor to the entire
LN Department. The section organizes and directs guerrilla
activities in the Central American and Caribbean countries.
Its case officers trequently trave! to their operational areas
to direct activities and arrange for funds, arms supplies,
and other support to agerits; agent meetings are often held
in a third country, especially Mexico. Operations are handled
or a case basis, cach case being a separate project starting
with selectiion and training of agents and continuing through
guerrilla warfare action in the target area, The section
has the following area desks:

Q) Costa Rica

headed by Oscar GARCIA Manzano, pscudonym
“Orlando

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM


(2)

(3)

(4)

«s)
(6)
@
(8)

NO FORN DISSEM
-9- C3-341,C0115-64

Dominican Republic, headed by Roberto Lazaro
SANTIESTEBAN Casanova, pseudonym “Rafacl," who was
formerly at the United Nations in New York and was.
arrested for attempting sabotage.

Guatemala. headed by Norberto HERNANDEZ, pseudonym
"Noel," assisted by an apprentice, (fnu) PENA, pseudonym
“Lorenzo.” As noted above, the Guatemalan operations
are considered among the most successful in Central

iia a

one “headed by Andres ARMONA Ramos pscudonym "Ernesto,"
ly commercial attaché in Nexico but not likely to
ceive another field assignment because of problems
during his service there,

Honduras, headed by Felix SUAREZ, pseudonym "Santiesteban.”

Niearagua.
Panama, headed by Fernando RAVELO, pseudonym “Fermin,”

El Salvador.

South America Section (Seccion Sur) has no regular chief, byt
the DGI deputy, CHAIN, directs its activities. It deals with
guerrilla activities in South American countries. There are

desks for:

(1) Argentina, headed by Oreste VALERA,

(2) British Guiana, headed by (fnu) GINES, pseudonym "Gil,"
assisted by two apprentices, pseudonyms "Jorge" and
"Rudy."

(3) Colombia, headed by Raul VIERA Linares, pseudonym "Gomez,"
formerly stationed in Bolivia, trom which he returned

. at the end of 1963, but unlikely to receive another for-
eign assignment because of difficulties in the field.

(4) Ecuador, headed by pseudonym "Julio,"

(5) Paraguay, headed by pseudonym "Salvano

(6) Peru, headed by (fnu) JOA, pseudonym "Jordan," assisted
by an apprentice, pseudonym "Bornabe."

(7) Venezuela, headed by Alfredo ALNEIDA Garcia, pseudonym

“Aranja." who was in Venezuela when it broke relations.
with Cuba and was later involved in an attempted re-
covery of documents from a plane crash in Peru, which
led to his expuision from Chile. His assistants are
Benito (nu), pseudonym "Saul." and pseudonym "Gary";
his secretary is- pseudonym "Marcia." The DGI considers
its Venezuelan operations the most successful in South
America.

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM


21,

22,

23.

SECRET
: NO FORN DISSEM

- 10.- CS-311/00115-64

Operational Support Departments.

upport departments of the DGI are Technical -
Operational Support (MI), Illegal Centers (MO). Special Schools
(EE), and Information Services (SI). They handle such functions
as spotting prospective agents, providing operational information,
training both intclligencé agents and guerrillas, providing clan-
destine communications between headquarters and agents in tho
field, procuring operational funds and supplics, etc.

The Department, »f Iilegal Centers (Departamento Centros Tegales'=
WO). The department ts not. as its name implies, concerned with
operation of tllegal field stations. but is an information col-

lection and agent candidate spotting department. It has three
major responsibilities: collection of information from foreigners

The operational +

: visiting Cuba; assensment of visiting foreigners for candidates

for intelligence agents; :and screening of letters from abroad
volunteering information, both to extract any useful data and to
assess the writers as possible candidates for intelligence use.
‘Among visiting. foreigners, ‘the MO Department does not concern it=
self-with diplomats, they are left to the DSE, nor with foreigners
who:are established residents of Cuba, who are the responsibility
of the Colonial Bureau (see below). In debriefing foreign vist-
tors, the department often works through ICAP, which makes arrange-
ments for many visits to.Cuba; in many instances, the visitors
supply information unwittingly and are never aware that they are
in contact with Cuban intelligence. The MO Department does not
itself recruit agents; it only watches for, screens, and evaluates
foreign contacts as agent candidates, If the persons it selects
are members of a Communist Party or leftist organization, they
are referred to the LY Department; if they are not members of
‘such groups, they are referred to the Illegal Department; one

of those two units does the actual recruiting.

The Department of Special Schools (Departamento Escuclas
Fepecip les = EE) — This departs es - EE). S department is responsible for training
In guerrilla warfare and related subjects. It is headed by Luis
PIREZ, pseudonym “Bruno Diaz," who is a DGI officer but also a
captain in the Cuban Army. He has a deputy, pseudonym
“aristides"; an office assistant, pseudonym "Armando"; and a
courier, pscudonym "Garcia." The department staff, numbering
more than 50, 1s made up entirely of Cuban Army personnel on
indefinite assignment to the DGI; they ave directed by the DGI
but continue to be paid by the Army, which also provides all sup-
port for the department. The main office of the EE Department,
which is mainly administrative, is a residence at 178th Street
and and 31st Avenue, telephones 21-8426 and 21-8262,> in the
Barandilla section of the Marianao suburb of Habana. Training
is conducted at permanent sckool sites in Habana (none outside),
including guerrilla warfare schools at 310 5lst Avenuc, in the
Country Club district, and three in the Marianao suburb: one
in the western part of the Arroyo Arenas section, one in the
western part of the San Agustin section, and one in the area
bounded by 214th and 226th Streets and 7th and 15th Avenues in
the Biltmore section, In addition there are technical training
schools (Escuclas Entrenawiento Tecnico) on East Street between
Parque and 37th Strects in the Alturas del Vedado section of
Habana, where Venezuclans and Salvadorans have been trained,

and on 26th Street between lst and 3rd Avenues in the Miramar

SECRET -
NO FORN DISSEM


24.

25.

NO FORN DISSEM

Sit 0OL15-64

- ibe cs

district, ‘The schools give military courses of all types. lasting
three to six months, depending on the subject ratter: all instrue=
tors aré Cuban Army persosnel. No Cubans are trained in the
schools, only foreigners: these are kept separate by nationality.
During training, students are obscrved and assessed for possible
use as intelligence agents: these selected receive additional
individual training from the NI Department.

The Department of Technical Operational Support (Wi). (Tt has
ho Spanish title, only NY.) This department is basically re-
sponsible for training indavidual intelligence agents and pro-
Widing them tectinical operational support such as clandestine
communications systems, false documents, etc.: it also provides
technical support to DGI staff members, The department chief is
“Guillermo ARASTAGUIA. pseudonym "Rene." who was formerly the sec-
retary of Ramiro VALDES. There are about 80 employees. including
a main office staff consisting of a secretary. pseudonym "Mayra";
two assistants, pscudonyms “Carmen" and "Maria Antonia"; and an
administrative officer, pseudonym "Victor." The NI Department
receives requests for training or support from the operational
departments; gives the training or provides or arranges for the
support outside the operational department framework; and. con-
tinues to process technical communications for the departments
after the agents have gone into the ficld. It has. however,
nothing to do with the direction of agents; it is only a training

‘and support mechanism.’ ‘The MI Department also does not supply

equipment, for example, for clandestine radio communication,
but tells agents what to procure and lets them make their own
purchases in their home countries with funds supplied by the
operational department directing them. As the rain technical
department of the DGI, MI has most of the directorate's tech-
nical cquipment, which it services and repairs in its own es-
tablishment, the buildings within the M Building compound. All
kinds of professional technicians and semi-skilled laborers are
available for such duties: they are all Cubans,

The MI Department has five sections, with the following
responsibilities:

a. Chemical Laboratory (Laboratorio Quimico - LQ). LQ, which
is headed by pseudonym “Contreras, provides chemical
secret writing systems and any other type of communications

- or operational support requiring chemical action or analysis.
Although it supplics agents the systems or devices, it does
not train agents, but forwards the material to the training
section, which then iastructs the agent. LQ also services
messages in secret writing for the operational departments.

b. Photographic Laboratory (Laboratorio Fotografico - LF). LF
is headed by pscudonym “Medina” and has a photographer,
pseudonym "BeLtra It takes photographs fer operational
documents such as false passports and identity cards and
prepares both photographs and pages of documents where changes
are needed. In addition, it provides microdot and microfilm
systems for clandestine communications and processes in-
coming and outgoing microdot and microfilm messages.

ec. Technical Training Section (Seccion Tecnica - ST). The chief,
who is also am instructor. is pscudonym “Teabaldo.” The

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM


26.

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

-12- CS-311/00115-64

“of radio training, also a radio instructor,
The ST Section is responsible for
rhnical field, such as communica-

4 OGuL or microfiim, radio sending
and receiving. codes, et The section has a training radio
station but does not handle actual radio communications to

and from agents in the field.

Person in charg
is pseudonym waldo."
training agents in

d. Travel and Passport Section (Viaje y Pasaporte). The section
has only one officer,’ pseudonym onso,” who provides travel
and other documents for all personnel of the directorate,
agents and staff, such as extra Cuban passports, forged pass-
ports of other countries, other identification documents,
and“other necéssary papers. He makes false entries in pass-
ports. such as arrival and departure stamps for points out=

side Cuba.

e. Concealment Device Section (Seccion Embutido - EMB). The
chief is pseudonym-"Maceo." The ENB Section is responsible
for providing any sort of concealment device required for
agent activities, especially those permitting the agent to
carry with him on his travels instructions, information, or
small objects so that they are-not discovered in customs or
other examination. It also provides concealment devices for
the forwarding of microfilm or other clandestine materials.

Department of Information Services (Departamento Servicios de
Informacion — ~The partment is headed by Major Guillermo
NEZ, pseudonym “Javier,” the tnird most important person in

the DGI (after PINEIRO and CHAIN), who also directs some of the
LN Department operational activities. The department is responsi-
ble for collecting information and maintaining up-to-date records
of operational information in every field affecting the security
of Cuba. It has three sections:

a. Operational Information Section (Seccion Informacion
Operativa - 10). The section, which has about 12 members,
collects all information necessary for placing and maintaining
an agent in a foreign, country, such as the travel and identity
documents required and their dates of validity, data for
legal and illegal travel of staff personnel’ and agents, maps
of infiltration and exfiltration routes for operational areas,
and up-to-date information on the general situation in each
country where the DGI operates or plans to operate. The
operational and other departments evaluate information they
acquire and send to the IO Section of the SI Department what-
ever they think useful; the IO Section issues no formal re-
quirements. Most of the information comes from the Illegal
and LN Departments, but the MS Department may also supply
information. The IO Section sometimes debricfs staff members
returning from foreign tous or short trips for operational
information or data on foreign governments, but it does not
debrief agent trainees arriving in Cuba. It has one other
function. the publication of false information on people
and countries. One of its members is a translator, Antonio
CARCEDO Ferrer, pscudonym "Andres."

b. Colonial Bureau (Buro Colonial - BC), formerly called the
NOI Section. The BC is responsible for assessing foreign

SECRET
NO FORN CISSEM


_ 27.

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

-13- CS-311/00115-64

residents in Cuba as potential agent candidates: like the
MO Department, it does not recruit agents itself but merely
refers them to the proper operational department. Sur-
veillance of foreigners in Cuba and observation and penetra-
tica of hostile groups is not part of the BC responsibility,
but is a function of the DSE.

c. The Map Section (Seccica Cartografia). With about 10 members,
it collects and maintains maps Of all areas in ‘which the DGI
has an interest, including country maps, town plans, and
special. regional maps,

General Administration Department.

The General Administration Department (Departamento Administra~

cion-General) is ‘headed by pseudonym -Joanuin" end bas na” and-has a staff

of IS to 20 persons, including pseudonym “Sergio.” It handles

administration of all aspects of the DGI except staff personnel

“matters. which are the responsibility of the Personnel. and In-

Specticn Departments: The department aiso controls workshops

for the maintenance and repair of DGI equipment, principally
vehicles; it does not ‘work on the machines used by the technical
sections, which.attend to their own maintenance and servicing.

In addition to its overall administration office, the department
has six sections, one for each of the departments except EE: MI,
MS, MO, Illegal, LN, and SI, to take care of their administration.

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEN


et

* GB=C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-~4-

OFGANIZATION OP THE GEXERAL DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE
(DIRECCION GENERAL OS INTELIGENCIA - DOI)

S~E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CS=311/00115-64



S-E-C-R-E-T_-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CS-311/00115-64

- 16 -

OMGANSZATION GP THE GENZMAL LIFRCTCRATEZ GP IBTELLIGENCE

(DIRECCIGN GENZFAL IR INTRLIGENCIA > OGL)

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


( PRESCION &:

Located fn the Larracabal Section, Marianac, Habana

cs-311/00115-64

Slet AVENUE

Sob Street

¥ Ballding
TGI Eqs

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

RAL DE INVEILIGENGA ~ NGI)

Yain Estronce ( guaréed )

sae

ECTICN DEPARTYENTS

(LP SECTION GF MI)
:OUSS

HOUSE,

DEVICE SECTION OF MI.
( ALL SECTIONS BUT LF AD DS).

49th AVENUE


t

10.

= 16 CS-311/00115-64

fonments,

Tke DGI was probably established in the general reorganization *
of Cuban intelligence services begun with the establishment of
the Kinistry of Interior in dune L961 and continued for several
mosth= Ueresfter. Ac Uatt cave ail Cuban intelLigence agencies
were put under the new civilian ministry, and the former G=2
overall intelligence organization, which was under milttary cons
trol. also was civillanized as the Departient of State Security

(SE). The-Anternal and external intelligence services were ap>

parently separated at that tine: previously they had both been
handled by G-2, :
¢ DGI such as operations will be discussed

Other aspects of th
in subsequent repor:

Ramiro VALDES has been head of Cuban intelligence since 1959;
before June 1961. he was head of G-2. but with the ostablishment
of the Ministry of Interior he was appointed minister. Ho. has-
continued to devote special attention to intelligence activities

in that capacity.

PINEIRO is an experienced intelligence officer, associated with ”
Cuban foreign intelligence since 1959.

This number is not listed in the Habana 1962 telephone directory.

DGI officers are normally known by pseudonyms rather than true
names. AS a result, sowree knew many of his colleagues only by
pseudonym and never heard their trae names, Ramon Cesar CUENCA
Montoto, a section chief in the Ellegal Department, is known by
true name and appasently docs not have a pseudonym, and PINEIRO

is knowa by true name.

CHAIN is probably Army Captain Carlos Sixto CHAIN Scler, an intel-
ligence officer who served in Washington, D.C., as a member of
the Cutan Mission to the Organization of American States in 1961
and early 1962; the mission was withdrawn in carly 1962,

Source had no information about Sevict operations in Latin
America.

The Soviet Bloc countries with which Cuba maintains relations are:

Europe: Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary,
Poland, Rumania, the USSR, and Yugoslavia.

Asia: ConmuniSt China, Mongolia, North Korea, and North Vietnam,

The non-Bloc countries with which Cuba maintains diplomatic rela-

tions are:

Europe: austria, Belgium, Denmark. Finland, France, Greece,

: Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway,
Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United
Kingdom, There are also, Cuban missioas to the Vatican
and to the United Nations European Office in Geneva.

Asia: Ceylon, India, Indonesia, Iraq, [sracl, Japan, Lebanon,

and Pakistan.

Africa: Algeria, Ghana, Guinea, Mali, Morocco, Tanganyika, and

the United Arab Republic.

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM


Le

12.

13,

14,

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

-17- CS-311/00115-64

North America: Canada. There is also a Cuban Mission to the
United Nations in New York, Bee

Central America and Caribbean: Mexico and Jamaica. ce

South America: Bolivia, Chile, Uruguay, and British Guiana (a aes
trade mission). Brazil, which had maintained
relations with Cuba until mid-May 1964, broke
them following the ousting of GOULART and the
change of government in April 1964,

The only regular air connection between Cuba and the Western
Hemisphere is the schedule maintained by the official Cuban air-
linc, Cubana (Empresa Consolidada Cubana de Avigcion - ECCA),
two or three times a week to Mexico. There are also charter
flights to Canada, but they are principally for cargo.

Agent activities in Latin America will be discussed in subse-
quent reports,

Source knew almost nothing about operations in Puerto Rico,”
Canada, and at the Cuban Mission to the United Nations in New

York,
Relations between Cuba and Peru were broken in 1960. _ ,

‘ SECRET
i NO FORN DISSEM
