OO AANAN +
Viod-r0s08-10044 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
r roy

SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: AMBRUSH Organization

Job # 63-345/6

File # 19-5-6
a Dated included: Apr 61 - Jan 62
Volumes: 1
1. Description: °
Revolutionary Council Anti-Castro Security and
Counter-Intelligence Team.
2, Findings:
No findings in relatimto the terms of reference,
Of possible interest: A document dated 19 August
1961 source: AMPAL-1, hand carried to Hqs. from WAVE
in August 1961. The document mentions "Cuban Communist

penetration agents in all branches of importance of the

U.S. Government" .., Mentions a possible "Castro

penetration into the Frente (FRB - Revolutionary
Democratic Front) and U.S. activities".

3. Other Agencies with Knowledge of this Activity:

Apparently, none,

: °3
Garbara Boyle)
u Researcher

o2 7 CDH comment: Check out Eugenio MARTINES again.
(SDIPSTREAM-1 said in 1976 that one Eugenio MARTINEZ was working
for the Cubans. A Eugenio MARTINEZ was involved in the Watergate;

a former JMWAVE Station agent.7


‘ rdn [Pee /

ahs

Dee. yeoer % céo

August. 19/61
fenclosed find an approximate list of expenses ‘that (

Gave mb for coMsideration. However, he would like to talk it over
as to the rest of -his stay in the U. Ss

lenclosea a note he asked to have sent over, "La Voz a
las Americas"(onda corta--h ort wave). This is supposed to be some
| sort of signal to his 0. P. C. group in Cuba to get behind end ..
' cooperate wth information and sabotages---------

. . I did mt talk to him as yet since I am awaiting word fran you as t

this Monday's meetings with him.-----

August 19/61
Jacinto Iuzarrege, a friend from Guba md former sugar mill otner,

end father-in-law of Ling Fernandez (IRR, ni po in jail at the Isle «
Pines), told me that Dr.) (30th of Noviembr
Kovimiento) was, taken to Jail after returning to Cuba from liiani *
Yast. time here,, and not.es yet released. Jacinto arrived here wit
nts wife ana-3 grendchtldren about 5 days ago. He was formerly «
member of the famous o14 Cuben A B C group. It should be remenbe:

| that Dry received training in S/il, his last trip here.-----
| -

|

i

August 19/61
Ben Volpe, now working at Holiday Tours, Biscayne Blvd., Miami, t

me -that his father, having ome from Cuba a few days ago, told hir

that Federico Claramont, 1100 10th St., Miami Beach(living close

{ them), is a_suspected member of Castro's G-2 and known as such si
i

being in Cubase He arrived in the U. S., Miami, as a political ex

which 1s a cover for his true mission here, and status.------

| August 19/61
| Jacinto Luzarraga end his relative told me that it is being rwsor

~ -{ that since only men are teken to Opa Locka by Immigration for 48

Fidel Castro is sending in many G-2 women instead of men for his

| clendestine operations here, between here snd Cuba. I also heard
| rumored that some of these agents are sent to tie in with Cormuni
in the U. S., various regions of the U. S. I have no other info.

this as could we find out more since it was told to me as a ue

August 19/61 °,
vote me that ke gets information from his uncle

Guillermo Rojas, a long time Cuban Communist who 4s presently wor

in the Imprenta Nacional at Havana. He helped(supposed to be one
ows



13-00000

"Cont 'd.6.~-|
i

Ly 7

the main) organize the library of the Communist throughout Cube
oHis unclé told him that Kruschev promised Fidel Castro that he

have missles in Cube(this was a few months ago). Also, his unc?

that the Russians have spies in the Pentagon that pull for Fide?

Castro, and they have already plenty of agents bel nging to the

Communists in all bronches of importance of the U. S. Gov't., a

1

|

|| even in'the CIA, He seid that all people in Guba that worked wt
|| the CIA were picked up through their agents md those presently

|
|

working with same are being watched closely. told me th?
he is kind of suspicious of Eugenio, his being cuben end because

{ a-sort of sixth sense, as he calls ite: D2 Ss

|| August. 19/61 mn

-Bart told me last week that Juez Gerceran was the one that sent ©
letter you" received to Carlos Prio as he recognized the handwrit

on both envelopes. The above judge bold Bart that some have bee

| given Salvo. Conductos to Hextco and that the Italien Bubassy is

emptying out some. This judge 1s the one that made the list of
people held up inthe Italian Embassy, that you received from Ba

[Bert told me that he thought that Alberto Del Junco(ipc),that 1

in touch,with is getting aid from someone from tho U. Se Gov't. +

| Del Junco's sister saw him this past Friday night at his howe anc

gave him $5,000.00 in U. S. Dollars(money) to send through the Po
to Cuba to be given to her brother dorm there. She didn't want t
disclose to Bart where and from whom she received the money, and
soniy said that it was from his group(HDC) here. Bert thinks that
this is not true. Ee sent the money down slready.
~Enclosed(marked in pencil, #7) find photostatic copies of letters
sent to Oscar Diaz from former F.Castro Pres. Urrutia and fron a
Macaroni that Bart kno ws. It is self explanatory in Spanish and
Bart says that he knows that the air strips shovm on enclosed mep
are truely in existence. Part" received these photostatic copies «
to his suggesting same to Oscar Diaz upon delivery. I couldn't tr
this letter to you a few nights ago as he had to deliver some in
hour of the time I visited him. However, I suggested his trying t
stend by when the letter was opened. Oscar Diaz liked Part's ides

making photostatic copies of sme gnd Bert asked for gno for himde

SES ever)



4

-@.

=

{ cont ta. 3.4
i

” “ o 5
i It seems that Captain Despain wants to break up the Intell.Serv:
of the Frente due to lack of funds, says Dre Fideze Hovever, a
having tried to find out whether this Captain ‘Dospain was Ernest:
we were not sures Having been introduced upon our 2nd- visit las
Friday, 9:30 A. lie(first visit was 2 days previously at 9:50 A.!:
we were presented to. Ernesto Despain, the person we were looking
some tine fow(due to"his relations with Coferino Alvarez(G-2) on
Josefing Socarras(Ceferino's girl friend, of whom I have been wr!
abo ut for ome time now). We started to get places,with all fu"
cooperationythe first: time there as we spoke only to Dre Fldeze =
second time, with Despain present, we felt that we should not go
many details. ‘Dr, Fldez. told us that Despain was planning on s-
him with a delegation to Puerto Rico. .I feel, as well as Frank,
this Dr. F'dez.(around 60 yrs. old) is a person that could very «
organize his. office to be of very valuable service against Castro
‘his ‘Communists here in the States, as well as in Latin Anerica wh
_they elready have their own agents operating. It is felt that De
‘4s trying to get Dr. Fldez. out of the way because he recognizes
importance of the pilenned Intelligence Service the Frente , throu
Fidez., zum which could produce a very strong arm against Castro.

Dr. Fideze says that they sre now working on the ABC form as used

against a former president of Guba known as Nachado. Enclosed is
‘an idea of how this group functions and are placed into many walks
life of importance to this cause. Their work 1s mainly of Intell
Bervice and in a form of cooperating with the U.S.Gov't. in all ve
possible witout trying to get monies, if-possible, to function. 1
presently trying to get donations to’ $300.00 to keep his office co
for a month. Upstatrs in the seme building, they have radio operc!
(very well experienced) continuously monitoring all phases of impo"
ance in Cuba(sugar mills, etc.). Frank Asked Despain if the file °
had in his honds was for us. Despain was caught a little off bounds
as he became somewhat unnerved, but soon rallied and opened the fi]
showing data on boats, but taking creat pains to keep us from secin
the contents, I didn't went to press the point arousing ony suspic

Dr. Fidez.e introduced me as a Joe Anderson, FBI man. I had former]

pring tome es anything special, whieh ho

/


1

oy

did anyway. I let it go at thet to see the developments as it 1

I nocd P :
no use to refute him again, However, when we parted, I did nenti

him again that he should not do so at rendom as I did not think 1
necessary nor what we had agreed upon. Dr. Fldez. did say so es
initroduced us to Despain as his Jefe(chief) and. wanted to show hi
loyalty at tho same time explaining to him that he wes cooperatin
with us in all ways possible against Castro and Corn

uism, which
plainly ‘seen that Despain didn't like at all. Despain sat ailent
no questions asked, hard, eyeing us as if weiting to see how far

FBI had gotten into matters of the Frente. I did not ask the Dr.
questions I wanted to and only said that I would like to be in to
with him at all times. Enclosed you will find photostatic copies
letters sent by Cubans here to Prague and the answers of sames, Y
told me to ask him how he got this information. Idid not feel tr
should have done so at the moment. However, I-will be in touch +
Dr. Fideze again soon as I said I would. I will not go to the of
of this. Intell. again as I was elmost seen by a Frank Paez, Pepe

Aguero's friend. Pepe Aguero is Paula Grau's husband, now here.

turned my head away, I think, in time. Dre Fdez. says that he ha
of more information to give me and that loads of stuff reaches hi:

‘| daily, all of which he can turn over to me for study. He said th

will get for me Gla files that the Frente has hidden and want to :
with him. I feel, if Despain, is out of the way, I could do much
wetting what is needed of them. Ido not feel safe with him arou
I may bé wrong, but that 1s the way I feel al ut security with h

I promised to return the enclosed photostatic copies tut feel tha
*

of: the files-can be taken over for copy for the asking, as Dr. F!
said he would cooperate to the fullest.

Dr. Jose Julio Fernandez: Office(9 to 11 Asli.) :FR-1-5155
—--—. Home{from 8 P.lis to 8 Asti): a 1858
Frente(from 11:30 AL. to 1

FR-4-2630-36-59
He nolds a Frénte Carnet No. 102, Frente Revolucionario Democratic

(F.R.D.), Delegacion de: #1 Salvador(Rescate) and receives 3200.0¢

monthly as a salery from the Frente.



i] August 19/61 i . “).
Frank Arias has given nz the following information (aéee™ pegpart)

ch 9 4
Captsin(Lieutenant, knowm formerly as) Ernesto Despain, head of t
7; 5
Frente Intelligence Sorvice at 14th Lone, Mimi, with
7

ntrenc

in back of building at,15th Street, off Brickell Ave., worked for
with Ceferino Alvarez(G-2, known as) in Government Insurance(Sep"
| Gobierno) ma formerly in the now non-existent BANSECO(brench of
National Bank of Guba). Josefina Socarras worked vith: thom also +
|| Seguro del Gobierno . I have written of Josefina before through !
| findings of Frank, «ho Imew them all in Cuba(not Despain directly,
only his femily). ‘This Gaptein Despain is an intimate friend of }
Ceferino and Josefina(planning to’ go to New York soon). fhe hast

trying to get m mething started here, as reported before, It is

| strongly urged thet this Josefina be surveilled constantly as I,
j

as well as Frank, think that she is affilinjea with Castro's clend

Jactivities here in the States. She received monthly checks from +!

Centro Refugiadg//Cep tain Despain is planning on going to join t!
q

U. S. Army. “He is definitely strongly suspected of giving everyth:
of Intelligence to Castro and is ‘tied in with the Cormunist and Co:
groups heres He may even soon plan to disappear from the scene ‘and
should not be allowed to get off easily. : He has been kseping Dre

Jose Julio Fernandez from orgenizing his anti-Castro and Anti-Coiwi
files due to lack of funds(says Despain). It seems thatrhis was ju
an excuse before and was done to keep the ball functioning as.shoul
be. -I think that this Dr. Jose . Julio Fernandez is very sincere 1:
is imnocehtly giving everything into the hands of Despain without

knowing. How Despain got into this position is not Imown by us yet.

fi Sar c

As far as we are concerned he is a Castro penetration into the Freni

and U. S. activities.

The above is the, fesult of being sent to see Dr. Jose Julio Fornande
head of Intebligence Seryenes of the Frente(as told us dy Fopacr
Cuban Grl. Socallanes, friend of Frank}x I went with Frank to try t
find out ato ut a woman whose Agpone of two of them) had taken data
and pictures. for Castro of allymilitary end naval installations in t
State of Florida.

vuuLLUUeE Lun BeBINSt “PéLerring Lo ume vy “anytnang spocini, wich ne


Gont'a.6---

a.

‘Enclosed find the eroaee belonging to the Frente that was vritte
for me by this Dr. Fldez. 5
‘grichosed find(# marked) "Roporte and Informe"(2 sheets) given me
Dr. Fldez. to. show what they are doing now.

Dr. D'dez. informed me of the following:

(a)e A Communist militant; Alberto Iglesias, 425 Cedar Lane,

Meadow, New York(Phones:1V-1-4368 end IV-G-4547). He is

Resident of. the U. S. for more than 20 years. -He has his

business," American Welding and Boiler rks Coe". This i:

man to be watched as he even uses his business as a front
(>). Mario Garcia, iiami Ventilated Awning Co., Inc. (works ‘at):
J presently asking Immigration permission to go to Guba end
considered’as one of Fidel Castro's heads here with a cre:

many ties.

-Eniclosed find a break down of expenses of the Frente Intell. Offi

Given me by Dr. Fldez., my asking him for same. Frank fries is
helping the Dr. cet funds for the msintenace of this office for
least another month. -I think that this set up should be taken 1
study. --------
August 21/61 ;
Enclosed find marked: #9, 2 documents, given me by Bnanuel Carvaje
last night which are self-explanatory in Spanigh. One is a list
exiles in their Costa Rican Embassy in Iavana, and the other is 2
cocument(copy) signed and given today to: the Minister of Foreim
Relations of Cuba in Havana. It seems that there was very much
discussions concerning same ariongst the foreign diplomats in Cuba
The Egyptian Embassador(RaU:Syria, etc.) went to the first meetin
the diplomats had in Iabane concerning the new monetary exchonges
He first agreed strongly with the rest and promised to sign the
enclosed type document concerning the new $ exchange in Cuba. 1
first meeting was held last Monday, Aug.13th, end they met again :
yi :
‘a second time on Thurdday in order to sign. le(name not Imowm b:
Carvajal) then refused to sign and did not even show up which ind:
ted to the remainder of the diplomats that his money must have ber
exchanged in the full aaount to keep him off the list of simaturc
The Swiss Charge D'Affairs informed at the same meeting, to the
Diplomats, that he received information from his Government that 1
Swiss Gov't. was checking all present’ Cuban bank accountants exist
4n Switzerland and were readying themselves to act accordingly in
case the Cuban Gov't. should not reach any agreement in regards to

the ‘exchange with the Diplomats.


ue ia f3 2

vy Gonttd. 9--4- The Japanese Embassador said he informed his ‘Gov't. ebdoat these

upd

difficulties as a protest against the behavior of the Cuben Cov!
“mis he told at the Diplomatic meeting. :

About a week ago, there was a hunger strike at the Brazilian Sat
by the exiles there. However, they gave up as a gesture to only
obedience to the Embassador. ‘They protested against not recoivi
salvo conductos ond other things.

- Tals coming week, Monday or Tuesday, the Diplomats agnin are cet

together at a meeting to protest before the Cuban Gov't. about

lex and puuposefukk desi ming ways of handling this affair, and
remind the Gov't. of their obligations’ in extending the courtesy
according International agreements. >

- Carvajal asced me not to mention this, but later said that he
informed us about Bnbassador Quiros leaving Havena this Thursday

as he was being recalled by the Costa: Rican Gov't. for wnsultati

. Carvajal will be in charge of the Embassy for the time, mt ssid

he didn't expect the Embassador to return as he is taking his fa:

i and house hold items.

He slso told me agein that_Eduardo Odio, Costa Rican Consul in

Havane, was a person not to be trusted by many experiences they !
elreddy had with him. :
De aT Erirew Cepise fos!

i ;

ne Caller ho sr wrekr Jy

Wa aD Oe: Vicenoh 20b ap boy Keen J Po 5
Hevligel aed Shon CS Pree Pe notte
MEF Pe vce!

TD have mony Lov Pa?

pean inh vo unt ote fa

