# 104-10183-10260

## Page 1

14-00000

pixess 88s5595888882 4323223238888523235x838893 8ka82!

104-10 183-10260... 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

174 64-

i3 Octoter 1564

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Onl

•Do Not Reproduce

08,06

JUANICT: All-s geration

Curling in Gunterald of

24

The briefing we told in a trall lusurdous

guvernigent culerence roin.on the direnon of riday

yuctoiner. linia lastino arate i nuri

108,06

08 06

Jarrended for the Luate: 11

maily tall so ain

jul our tatlon tere

presert

03,03., 162

27,03

2o al the requeit of the lour, tal se) i

prefaced the operatonal briesng isth a tried description

of hut taeü.i. Intellijence commundty operates, us the

role or chi,

of the need for cos partnentation and security,

and speciticaily of how theporegoing com berations case

it isceratiro sor the Euatehaalans lo adopt-securit, pre-

cautions volchill ensure that the interration me prinide

and the Latat operations ire undortene are compartmenter 24

within ske Guaten dlan governient land,

oy-tho tuatemalay governaerterclusively lour re

presentatives in the field). 24

¡Ollursag too macductory reinaris vutlines!

above, l priest the group un the Deil structure, to d'cl

uperational technques ind specificall o2d°Cl Claris an

operations in Guatemal Thel

lent cluse attentivi

throws our the irieting and carined the exhilts clusely,

includins the ¿til intelligorce: requirenients dur Cuatemaia 24

t. ofter the dureguin expition, l explaner.

tu 1115 fulnust all mihilin; solerones lo wurltrarel duils 2l

and salci: l1st.)

19/pV

---

## Page 2

-2-

24

•its retereico co the

of tie develop sents and plas

1l.e.plalned

brlellythe.status.s.f

Dand the posabilit,

24 los mls boing trans ferred to runtenna (The vas li line

with the cliciaost

patrich melader our Chief -1

of statton the

3,06

advisor,

Colonel Ashrase aesed that the Guateinalancy.

governnentase nu act: in unloss requested by

or colonel irbidnu and said that, lit

24

1s transterred, une el cur people prutadly mould tale to

In Guaterala!

24

The

inikle is ridther

tripasson sprach la winch de corredthr dollowin, points:

lis cen lo siperienco in the dra, in culia

and in Central adorica;

sile euri; harmings disut Ciatr.rowhich

were disre, arcad;

whieh it has loured toward J.i LeaderHup;

do: The fallure of the U.i, to tire agrersiu.

action a airst. Cuia art due neod for ticking a

hird line, unclurn, the use of force in support of

militiury activit; b; the free cubans and the other

American countries; ..

ins arnrecuton that thie sorlets will not be

"Illin; to siss a nuclear var iver Cula;

l Conderanalim us ilerico for her dealings with

cuia, lor failure to abide d; her obliatluns in

the Dis, and for perittli, fire Castroites tu

operate out ul tienco agunt uther dnerican

countries;

K. The need tor action ayalast siesico;

---

## Page 3

The ellectireress

of dun enn actions mainst

_uersil lin quate inta and us determnation

te meet violence inth violence:

recuinition of the importanco of the inosation

coresed in the irrelin, and of its exploitation;

Accostance al secursty restrictions an ile

decision to hold tis information to thiose present.

:06

In repliing lo tou reciares"

I fald frat de appreciato the comeration al duatenala an the 24

Difand that se enall de met interosted in the epiloltation

of the puest plitles la the prosont case.

ladded tirat the matter

of usto, forco a diret Cuba is i poliej matter ou inter i cas

nut competent lo coricort ixt that the docisione made in tio

United tates üuvernient are based on carcial study of

detalled insorraaã1 in Inelrelin, infornation on sovlet infertione

and capa! ilitics.

d. Al the conclusion of the ricetini,

ab-ed for i cou; di tha lül se ulrenents (uhica ne airedd;

had sune over closci,) and cour the cüp; vith ulin to: rie;

further.

karold to wension

Chiel;

*A1/SA/E1

CEPRET

---

