‘\0a-10303-10008 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
* eo OF 7 b- VK
| - SEGRE
‘ 7 SEP 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

FROM : John H, Waller
Inspector General
: SUBJECT 2 Jack Anderson Reference to 28 November

1963 CIA Cable

1, The Operations Group of CI Staff has provided a copy
of the cable about which you inquired. A copy is attached at
Tab A. It is a dissemination of a report by a British journalist
stating that a man named Ruby was in Cuba in 1959, where he
visited an American gangster-gambler named "Santos, '' who
was living luxuriously in jail. This dissemination was based
on a 27 November 1963 cable from London, a copy of which is
attached at Tab B. A follow-up cable from London on
29 November commented.on the source of the storv, raising
a question as to his reliability. A copy is at Tab C. A more
detailed statement about the man is contained in a report
passed to the FBI on 12 December 1963, a copy of which is
at Tab D.

2. On 7 January 1964 the FBI provided CIA with a report
that Jack Ruby did travel to Cuba in 1959; a copy is ‘at Tab E.
On 30 January CIA provided additional information to the
Bureau on this subject; a copy is at Tab F.

3. The following points of coincidence are probably of
interest to Senator Baker: Jack Ruby did travel to Cuba in
1959, as stated in the report that gave rise to the present
query; the name "Santos" is also the given name of Trafficante,
although it is not clear that these are the same persons. While
there are reservations about the reliability of the source of
the report which gave rise to the present question, we are not
in a position at this time to evaluate it definitively. It is noted
that the description of ''Santos"' as living in luxury in a Cuban
prison is similar to a version also reported in a 16 May 1974
story in the Outlook Section of the Washington Post.

aranrtt


13-00000

C |.” SECRET C

4, As you may know, an Agency task force has been
conducting an in-depth study of all information relating to
issues surrounding the Agency's support for the Warren
Commission investigation. This study has been underway
since early July and, because of the detailed nature of the
review, may require as much as another two months if it
is to be completed with the thoroughness that we believe
necessary.

5. OLC on 2 August called Liebengood of Senator Baker's
staff in response to a query concerning Jack Ruby's alleged
trip to Cuba. Unfortunately, on the basis of inadequately
researched information given OLC, that staff admitted to
Imowing only about an allegation of a 1963 trip to Cuba by
Ruby put out as propaganda by an anti-Castro Cuban group.
The information did not include information in CIA's possession
on the 1959 trip by Ruby contained in the 1963 (Tab A) cable,
Madigan finally received from OLC a copy of the 1963 cable
on September 15, when the matter was straightened out and
the files properly researched.

6. As a relevant note on the question on whether or not
the Agency was purposely withholding the 1963 cable on Ruby's
1959 visit, we have been informed by the FOIA staff that at
least the following persons have been provided copies of the
cable:

Mark Lane

Paul Hoch

Bernard Fensterwald
David Belin

Walker & Buchanan Carrollton Press
Harold Weisberg :
George Lardner | Washington Post
David Martin Associated Press
Norman Kempster L.A. Times
Christie Basham NBC
Pamela Butler Readers Digest
Mel Elfin - Newsweek
Dan Schwartz National Inquirer
Robert L. Terpstra National Inquirer
Robert Anson New Times Magazine
-2-


7. As discussed with you, I think it would be useful for
my staff, specifically Breckinridge, to get Madigan out here,
describe to him our task force approach to the problem and
otherwise convince him that we are cooperating to the fullest
on this problem, We will coordinate this with OLC,

keke eee

Attachments:
Tabs A thru F


13-00000

GG a (



. UAL 3 “Li tae aise ia :
- "5543. oO 7 5 - ;
HOVEMBER LSI N CS FILE NO. s

WB HOUSE ATTN: MR: NCCECRGE HUNDY Beers} if SH
ARTIENT OF STATE ATIN: HR. U. ALFXIS JOHNSON = + 28ier85 16 G82
ERAY, BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
BESSK CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ees

Cf &
ROUTINE:

* MEDIATE

29 nass
CE

82: cl, D/OCI, DOP, C/CI 2, VR

° i INFO cielo
ee eee 8565
OH 26 NOVEMEER 1963 A BRITISH JOURNALIST OE My AND FESO KNOW

GAVE IBFORMATLON TO THE AMERICAN EMBASSY. IN LOUDON

see
WHICH INDICATED THAT AN "AMERICAN GANGSTER TYPE nasyftonc VISTTED CUBA
AROUND 1959. watson] mansene WAS WORKING IN CUBA AT OR TIME AND WAS JAILED BY
CASTRO BEFORE HE WAS DEPORTED. sete ett om .

I Parson on cuna, {Wirsos)savs = NEP AW AKERICAN GAHCSTER GENSLTR
TAY EsxarTOs WHO COULD NOT RSTURN TO THE U.S.A. ‘BECAUSE THERE WERE sevman

THDICTMENTS OUTSTANDING AGAINST WIM. INSTEAD HE PREFERRED TO. LIVE xu RELATIVE

IUKURY IN A CUBAN PRISON. WILE SANTOS WAS IN PRISON{ WILSOH[ SAYS, Siintos
WAS VISITED FREQUENTLY BY AN AMERICAN GANGSTER TYPE NAMED RUBE. iS STORY Ts
BEING FOLLOWED UP. [wxisolfjsavs HE HAD-ONCE TESTIFIED ABOUT CASTRO ‘ACTIVINTES
BEFORE THE EASTLAND COMMITTEE OF THE U.S. SENATE, SOMETIME IN 1959 oR 1960.

CLASSIFI : “ alii £2.97
sation Eae END. OF MESSAGE Document Nunber 226°E3

: _( dor FOIA Review on APR 7975

re i —
) € 2E0 ag 5 oe
26,
oe ‘by authority of °° 8 ee ee - :
- E&Y RICHARD HEIMS © 0-6. Sn eta
DDP : COORDINATING OFFICERS ceour tt. :
RELEASING OFFICER | : eter} | AUTHENTICATING
. : : SECRET Gectanitesion f-- OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.” Copy Ko

; my

potas



13-00000



ROUTING

: binegron =
4 "| “konBeN / i
ON: Ofte ws cctenanettengninnb seco
"RECORDS-OFFICER STAL
4) -PGBEPp~e/eraeyR- £2 Rolling ar eee as
: farsi OG:

—_ U =
! u Upt
DIR- sarofe S OND a ae ,
ae 1H-} : Rote: lf écstrug# te Peet ete die .
BaP REM uaa ae reasons,dnd codrdinate © eae
iene ‘ 4f eppropriate, -
REF DIR 65133 * Caen cael

all : : i oar

1. ‘HE
: OuRcs WFORMATION
ee HOWEVER oe" SHOWS THAT OSYALD
ARRIVED IN SOUT HAMPTON 9 ocr 59 CLATHING oe . HE

aD NO FIXED ADDRESS Sur FLANNED REY MAIN U. Ke ONE.YEEK FOR VACATION

BEFORE GOING ON TO “SOME SCHOG IN SUISSE”. MOWEVER, HE LEFT LOND zs 9
' Wiel teariod na 2
NEXT DAY 19 oct BY AIR FR HELSINKI. + THERE NO PB@OR ON RETURN | O 2
0 U.7S NE. PASSED THROUGH ue Ke cer La on
‘ 2 2
TABULA Sa iG IT AI -NORNECESSABSA FILL CUA ANDINAAC820430, 2 z
e f&
: THERER GS SRAPPLODBEM MOU Dell Tae OUE SED Dae : : dees =
S A
2. 26 NOV A 3RIT SUBJ CLAIMING BE FREE LANCE JOURNALIST B ICY
we lf
RESIDING CHILE ROUGHLY LAST TWENTY YEARS wane soun WILSON AKA @ Jor
WILSON-HUDSCN VISITED EMB TO TELL FOLLOWING. SAID HE WAS IN CUBA
DURING 57-59 WORKING IN’ SOME CAPACITY FOR BATISTA AND WAS SUBSEQUENTLY
DEPORTED BY CASTRO AFTER IMPRISONMENT FOR A TINE, HOWEVER, erp RPALEG

CLAIMS HE KNEY A GAMBLING GANGSTER TYPE NANEBYSANTOS- WHO WAS es

———

SAME PRISON WITH HIN AFFER CASTRO caME To PofeR. santos vas 2.7 New 63>
= sees nom RATT. : Sh

Dees = ( 3 GBPui ;
——

REPRONUCTION RY OTHFP THAN THR ISCHING OFFICE Ic epOuTAITED

‘


13-00000

Er ‘pte! te copy ones this this deetinent., éon
POS eaten @.| se |: Z PAGE

os

“ERIEAN BUT COULD Nor RETURN U. S. DUE ‘SEVERAL FEDERAL . IND.ICT-

VENT SOUT STANDING AGAINST HI. SANTOS 2OPTED tid ateide REMAIN” in

FRISON FO? PERIOD OF TINE PAYING castad In DOLLARS FOR ‘is RATHER
“LUURIOUS AND DEFINITELY NON- FR ISON LIKE ACCON "MOD AT IONS. purine

THIS PIYE HE Vas, ACGRDING TO WILSON ON, VISITED meebeatl't
BY ANOTHER AMERICAN GANGSTER TYPE ow am vILson-Hic sas :
CLAI*S HE COULD IDENTIFY RUBY FROM CLEAR PICTURE. ALSO CLAIMS

To Have TEST IFIED SEFRE THE ‘EASTLAND. Ene COMMITTEE DURING

COMMENT S.

a3e iBlonsoe MUCH SAME LINES AS STATION ON THEIR 7 as
REQUESTS. WE. CHECKING TOGETHER PREVENT DU. IcaT LON SUES SEAEION” .

comers i

is COMMENT: ‘10S SGP RONPSAPPIN GABLESTORRYBAP-GPFEOORYCABMES
8. fvote 22: stations aadeiainents

etReguerced ty

a. — nS Sane




- 2SEWBBZOZE

° qurno Sipianew TRACING JoKA vILsON ane , BILSOW HuDsoN “vit
(steal BELIEVE ON FIRST RETURNS FRON-ODSADY GHECK HE LIKELY
rE PsYcHoPatH, © SEAPEON caTiicns HE GAVE THIS INPRESSION WHEN
TestiFyine. BEF OnE EASTLanD COMMITTEE TH 596° ve-RRE“PHERER ORE :

. ~ Document “Number Eee? 7 2aB- aoe

ws for FOIA Review ont “aoe 8a.

Coord lat
Af appropFiate, Ome

* REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER ae THe aS ‘OFACE AS PROHIBITED _ Copy ey

ac


13-00900



CLASSIFICATION REVIEW °

ae on_2> NAY 1975 a
de__smpper cu. syZ/2.2 oY

Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Hr. S&S, J. Pupich

,
ye
.

re

2
E-
ie

Deputy Director, Plans :

SUBIECT 3: WILSON, Carios Jokn
(aka’ VWILSON-WUDSON, Join .
WILSON, John Zudson) :
bOB: «29 Decenher 1916
ROB: Liverpool, England :

Reference: OUT 85657, 28 November 1963

Loa usually reliable soures, whose information was
evaluated as "possibly true", reported on 8 Augast 1951 the :
following information concerning one Carl John WILSON Budson,

fae Po “WILSON, a Spanish citizen of British descent
residing in Chile, was 2 contact of one Bsrt SUCHARGY, ~
a suspected Soviet agent, in Santiago, Chile.

be It had been ascertained that WILSON had
arrived in Chile on 28 January 1939 from Puenos Aires,
bearing Spanish passport No. 7, issued in Buencs Aires
on 4 January 1939 and visaed (tourist) by the Chilean
Consul in that city on 25 January 1939. He held
Chilean carnet 1.824.595 (Santiago) and resided at
Calle Arturo Medina 4207, Santiago,

ec. Further background data xevealed that WILSON
was born in Liverpool, England, on 29 Gecember 2916,
In July 1936 he had left his studies at Czford Univer~
sity in England to enlist as a volunteer in the Spanisa
Loyalist Forces, whereupon he acquired his Spanish .
citizenship. :

da. Subsequent to his arrival in Chile, WILSON in
bis capacity as 2 jarnalist had opened a one~man crusade
against the British Government, in violation of restric~
tions placed on such activities by foreigners in Chile.
He hag been, in addition, masquerading under various
nonexistent titles as a resvit of which the Chilean :
Government on 16 Hay 1939, at the request of the British

Document Humber 33 5 fs. 6

ain te - z HAY 1976
cn “BL. for FOIA Review of



13-00000,

be
fs
i
{
i

@ @
i 2

Eubassy, issued a decree (No. 22344) ordering his
expuision from Chile, Later, however, the decree was
rescinded as 2 result of WILSON's pleas, his state of
health and his promise to discontinue hig misrepresenta~_
tion and other illegal activities.

com In spite of his promises, WILSON had continued
these activities, numbering among others an anti~
Fascist campaign which he had associated with o "Uni~,
versal Peace Movement" to be brought about by the
elimination of all leading world powers. WILSON also
had frequently posed as a British RAY captain and had
worn the corresponding unizors.

: 2 The strange mannerisms exhibited by WILSON
wére attributed to a mental iliness, and following
WELSON'’s second outburst, the British Ambassador pre~
sented another request for his expulsion. Again, :
However, following various explanstinns by WILSON to
the British Embassy and on the renewal of his promise
to refrain from further activities ef a similar nature,
tae case was dropped. .

2. On 7 Cctober 1952, a usually reliable source,. whose
information was evaluated 2s "possibly true," submitted the
following report eoncerning one Carlos John WILSON, who is
identifiable with the Carl John WILSON Eudson in paragraph
1 above.

a. WILSON stated that he had arrived in Santiago
in 1547 and had worked on a special mission for the
British Government in Germany, Egypt, and Turkey at
the close or World War II. Be stated that he hed
fought with the Spanish Republican forces against Franco.
He was violently anti-Umited States and constantly :
condemned United States policy. WILSON was of the

‘opinion that England and France would eventually join.
with the USSR te form a pact aimed at the complete
destruction of the United States. He claimed to be an
huthority on the Balkans, and was a strong supporter :
of Tito. Tito, WILSON stated, wovld eventually tine up
the entire Balkan area with England and Erance to assist
Russian in crushing the United States. ‘

b, WILSON was extremely interested in the



13-00000

y 3

Yugoslav colony in Santiago. He attended.» large cele-
bration given by. the Serbian Orthodox Society at the
Club Ruso in Santiago. On this occesion he bad. become
intoxicated and made bitter resarks against the U.S.
While he was: intoxicated he made confidential remarks
indicating thet ke was a member of an intelligence
service, i

c. WILSON had an office on Calle Agustinas 1132,
which hore the following designation: "CINCRS, Commercial
Information.” WILSGN’s business consisted of trade in
copper, lead, and sulphur. He stated that he waa i"
involved in a secret "deal" in Antofagasta, Chile, in
which he planned to ship 15,000 tons of sulphur to
Holland,

d. WILSON was in contact with a man identified

as Heriberto Springyaller EINICEE, also described as
' bitterly anti-U.S. EINICKS was believed to have .

studied in the U.S. between 1922 and 1930, He had
iater become 2 colonel in the Nicaraguan Army but had
been expelled from the country. It was reported that hs
spent some tine in Bolivia and was closely involved
with WILSON in his so-called comercial dealings.

e. WILSON was described as being very intelligent,
Eee astute, and well informed on current events, He was
extremely sociable, friendly, a very heavy drinker, and
ee : a Sree spender. Wis physical description was 2s follows:
Apparent age: 38 years old (born circa 1914)
‘Build: Wedium...---
color of hair: Brown cane
color of eyes: Blue-green
face: tong, large nose; small, slightly pro
+ truding ears; ruddy complexion; small,
mustache; wears glasses :
documentation: UH Press Pass No, 287, issued seen
in Santiago. Pass from the
International Police Section
of the Chilean Investigation
Service authorizing him to enter
Los Cerrillos airport in Santioge
at any tine.

:

SOURCE C@RIENT: Source was of the opinion that WILSON vas
very probably an intelligence agent, since there was no
apparent reason for his great interest in the Yugosiay colony



13-00000

4
in Santiago and since his large income was of questionable
origin.

3. A usually reliable source reported 1% dune 1259
that Carl John WILSON, British journalist, sent 2 cable to
the British Parliament and to the British Trade Union Fes

‘eration saying that he had confirmed that the U.S. Military

Attaches in the Caribbean were giving military advice to
dictators, He protested in the name of humanity, saying

that patriots were fighting for thelr sacred rights to be 2ree
citizers and that American volunteers were helping the. dic-
tators with the approval of Washington. Source commented that
WILSON was planning on accompanying Hario CALERO, Nicaraguan
revolutionary who was readying an expedition against -
Nicaragua from Cuba. .

4, Another report dated 26 June 1959 from a usually
reliable source stated that Paul HUGHES, an American soldier
or fortune, claimed to have at his disposal three nircraft,
including one bomber, and-pianned to launch an attack on
Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua, during the weekend of 27-23 June
1959. Hughes. said that Carl WILSON, a British journalist,
and about 65 yolunteers woulda join bia in the attack. Source
commented that HUGHES also vaguely spoke of possibly bombing
Hanagua for the psychological effect. WILSON said that
Castro. had no knowledge of HUGHZS' plans.

5. | United. Press International carried the story date-~
Laned 1 July 12959 from Havana, Cuba, saying that Police had
raided a private nome in suburban Biltmore the day before
and seized a large quantity of arms and exrested threes.
Anericans and a Briton, The-Anericans-were-identified as
Paul EBUGHES, an officer in Castro's rebel army; Efren B, -
PICDARDO, of Hiami, Florida; and Joseph BARDOR, of Los
Angeles, California, The Briton was listed as Carl cor |
WILSON, ;

Ss. The U.S. Arny Attache in Havana, Cuba, reported
SO July 1959 that he had received iia following note aah
Carl John WILSON: :

"Salvador ALLEEDE, oo presidential
eandidate in 1953 and Bocialist Party member) brought a
letter of definite instructions to Raul Castro (from
Chile.) ‘This letter contains instructions from the
Kremlin in Hoscow and contains the signature of Pable
Neruda of Chile. It deals with definite instructions
of anti-American agitation to commence next month in
Chile, Peru, Bolivia, Cuba, Costa Rica, etc. Raul


13-00000

@ ; e

Castro is now under instructions of Salvador ALLENDE
of Citile.”

Scurce, Car] Jobn WILSON, was described as a Eritish subject
and free lance newspaperman, who was arrested with Paul
HUGHES and who had been in jail ever since. ¥iiSON reportedly

wanted to talk to someone, U.S, Army Attache showed the note

to the British Charge who agreed to send the Consul to talk
to WILSON and advise U.S. Army Attache if TILSON had anything
to ndd to the contents of the note. Nothing further vas
received,

7. <Assoctated Press datelined 6 July 1959, Havana,
carried story about WILSON who said he had begun a seven
day hunger strike to protest his arrest and had to be fed
intraveneusly at Cuba's National Police Hospital. Although
police denied WILSON was oa a bunger strike, a hospital
intern sid that he was suffering from physical exhaustion
brought on by his refusal to eat. According to a 16 July
1959 Havana press report, WILSON'’s wife, a Chilean named -
Eliana Bronfman, said WILSON had received a law degree from
Oxford University and had fought in the International saiihetened
during the Spanish Civil War,

8° Onis August 1959 WILSON walked into U.S. Consulate
Kingston, Jamaica, and said he was 2 journalist who had just
been released after 54 days detention in Habana prison, Ee
voluntesred information about Cuba ang Communist activity in
Latin America, Cn 21 August 1959 the U.S. Consulate in
Kingston issued VILSON a single entry nonimmigrant visa,
He was carrying British passpert 147356 issued in Havana
24 August in the name of John WILSON, He was attempting to
get aix passage to Minami in order to sekl his story to the
Hiami Herald and then to obtain a new visa from Chilean
consulate to return home (UK or Chile not specified, but
apparently he returned to UE.)

9. U.S. State Department cable from Asuncion, Paraguay,
reported 16 December 1959 that John WILSON, correspondent
for North American News Service, had informed the Paraguayan
Ambassador in London on 14 December that within two days a
cargo of 305 machine guos and 200 rifles were to be shipped
to Buenos Aires,. Argentina, at the direction of Castro,
WILSCN reportedly showed documents which proved his statezent



13-00000

?

a oe

and requested remittance for passage to Asuncion to inforn
fully on the shipment without pay. =

CSCI 3/779,048

cwu/3fimittenyjz DATE: 9 December 1933 .

Distribution: i PROJECT: None

O&1 = addressee .
1 RI Coord: WE Division/Walsh
1 — CILIA x6660
1 ~ CL/REA
1% CI/ICG

= WE/Walsh
L}- WH/3/a3s

- CWE/3

Vane


13-00000



unr STATES DEPARTMENT OF J Brice
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
. 4

In Reply, Please Refer to WASHINCTON 25, D. C

File No.

By LIAISON
Date: January 7, 1964
To: Director :
Central Intelligence Agency :
Attention: Deputy Director, Plans
From: John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subject: JACK L. RUBY
: LEE HARVEY OSWALD ~ VICTIM
CiVIL RIGHTS

Mr. Carlos Villa, 1450 Coral Way, Miami, Florida,
furnished to the FBI on December 21, 1953, a letter which
had been forwarded to a friend of his named Jose Antonio
Juan. Mr. Juan had received the letter from his son living
in Cuba. 5

In the letter received by Mr. Juana from his son
the statement was made, "it is known here that Rubinstein
= was here a little less than a year ago visiting a Mr. Pranski,

. Owner of a shop dealing in tourist articles, located on
Prado Street between Animas and Trocadero, opposite the
Sevilla Biltmore.” The reference to Rubinstein appears to
refer to Jack L. Ruby who is presently in custody, Dallas,
Texas, on charges of shooting Lee Harvey Oswald.

For your information this Bureau's investigation
* concerning Jack L. Ruby has developed no information that
" Ruby has ever been in Cuba except on one occasion in 1959
when he visited there briefly on a vacation trip. Ruby
himself readily admits to this trip but has denied any other
trips to Cuba or contacts with persons there. 7

It is requested that, through available sources of
your Agency, you develop any information possible relating
to. the above-quoted statement in an effort to resolve the
allegation that Jack L. Ruby has possibly visited Cuba since
1959 and has connections there.

ROl- THQ FOR



13-00000

30 JAN 1964

rector

Jack DB, susy
Los barvey Gsiabu = Fictia
Civil iiphta

1. Raference is made to your memorandum of 7 Jamary 19&h,
subject as above, concerning a report of a visit to Cuba in early
1753 rade by dack L, 2U3X¥, aasassin of Lee darvey Uoval. This —~
Azancy has retefyei a sinilar report frcm a source to the offset >
that Svat was in havana in late 1962 or in early 1953, According
to this unconfixmed reper RUMY way ‘a friend and sustmer of a
(cuban) citizen namsd PRASKIN, qmer and manager of 3 novelty skop
for tourists located (in Havana) between Animas and Treeadero,
Paseo cs? Prado, in fromb of the Hotel Sevilis," Gur sources stated
that the following Individual sould verily the above information:

© Rornardo PLREIA Acosta
22 March 1927, Great, Carrilo, las Villas, Cuba
Ferber of Inigade 2506

Our latest Information concerning the whereabouts of P-RATEA Acosta

indicates his address as of Saptesber 1963 wea

G21. Sif 2nd Stroet,
Miami, Florida

2. We sugrest that your Burean may prefer to interview PERELIA
Acosta, Gur files contain ne infermiion on anyore itontifiabls with
PH Wa would aopraciate receiving the results of your intervies
of Paha Acosta, Your Bureau will be advised in the event we receive
further information relating to this ratter.

Pt TES BEPUTY PYRSCTGR £UR PLAUS:

+ doves Angiston

CSCL~3/ 779,02:

"G


oe

1 = sH/3fix. Whitten]
1 ~ sR/cifiir, tiigren
1 = CI/22a/fiir, Rocca

Y= of/i1A (dummy)
ores (omy)
"+ CI/sie (Sensitive Mexos

201-72 862)





13-Q0000
TN

id

nd

ate

the
on,

Alesse CHITTY eMEL OF LHe EUG Canee Fepnr
ent, testified: Chat ne more thy almost 1,200,
Policemen were acquainted with Ruby: the reports of
present and past members of the Dallas Police Department as well
Ruby's employes and acquaintanees indicate that Ruby's poliee
ships were far more widespread than those of the averare

and their work.

is no credible evidence that Ruby songdit special favors from
police officers or attempted to bribe (heme! Although there is consid
that Ruby gave policemen reduced rates declined
from them, nd gave Chem free cotter
pitality was not unustal fora Dalhes night -
club operator* Ruby's personal attachment to police ollicer
is demonstrated by reports that he attended (he fimeral of at Toast
one policen and staged a benefit performance for the
widow of another.* Ruby regarded: several ofl as personal
friends, and other Lworked for hime’? Finally, at least one potice-
man regularly. dated, and eventually married, one of the Caransel’s
strippers”

erable ¢

Underworld Ties

From the time that Ruby arrived in Ds in 1947, de was
with numvrous underworld figures. One of hi
qnaintances was Paul Roland Jones, who was cony
to bribe the sheriff of Dallas and engaging in the sale of nareoti
Joe Bonds, one of Ruby's partners in the Vegas Club, had a er minal
record.*?

‘ted of attempting:

Ruby, who enjoyed card playing and horse racing" was friendly
with severnt professional gamblers, Tn 1959, he visited Cuba at the in
vitation and expense of Lewis MeWillie, » professional gambler.

ve up gambling was
ying hima" When

Alice Nichols reported that Ruby's refusal to
one reason why she never seriously con:
Sidney Seidband, a Dallas gambler, Oklahoma City, his
list of gambling acquaintances included Jack Ruby” And other
friends of Ruby have been identified, as gamblers." Finally, (wo per-
sons of questionable reliability have reported that Ruby's consent was
necessary before gambling or nareoties operations eould he launched
in Dallas?

Based on its evaluation of the record, however, the Con
believes that the evidence does not establish a significant link between
nized crime, Both State aud Federal officials have
ated that Ruby was not alliliated with « ized criminal aetiv-

And numerous persons have reported that Ruby was not con-
Th such activity!

Travels

visited Havana, Las Vegas, New York,

Despite reports that Rub
1 border towns, most of his time subse-

Chicago, Honolulu, and Me:
: : 801



13-Q0000

quent to 1947 was tin Dallas, Same of hi. Is, including: his
efforts in behalf of “Little Daddy” Nelson and his visit to New Orleans
in June 1963 have been discussed. R by stated tit he went, to Chi-
cago in 1952, in 1958 when his father died, and in Ugust 1963 when he
met. members of his family-at OTare Internat ior irport while en
toute from New York to Dallas Tis Angust trip to Now York
motivated by his difficulties with the American Guild of Variety
Artists and his desire to obtain falent, has been completely established
by hotel records. Early i so traveled to Wichita,
Kans., beeause of his i “and on May 25,
1963, ho app i motel.

Although 1 denies being in Ve after 1937," there are
city in late 1962,"8 and the
Reports that. he was in Las Vegas .
1 prior to the assassis tion ®" appea similarly

There is s uncertainty ahout Ruby's trip to Havana, Cuba, in
nee ind att he accepted an iny tation from
i tly became a violent anti-
"= Ruby apparently
4 when MeWillie operated a Dallas nieht.
Willie, whom Ruby said he idolized 4! supervise
ling xet at Tlavana's Tropi 53
ployed ina managerial eapacil
ment“> Ruby testified that he went to Mav;
1959 and left. beenuse he was not interested in it:
MeWillic corroborated thi ated only that Ruby
visited. Tavana “somet ime 1959." 97 Three Chicagoans reported
seeing Ruby in 1 na during the Labor D; eokend in 1959418
% an acquaintance of MeWiltie. ported that when hoe
y in Miami du ng the Kuby stated that he
was returning from a pleasure The theory that the
trip to Mayana had conspirator: discussed in chapter
VI. There is no reliable ¢ Ruby went to Havana subse-
quent. to September 1959.42 -

Although Ruby denied ever being in Tew: there is some eviz
dence that during the summer of 1961 he was in Tonolule seeking
dancing talent. While it is unlikely thacT by wauld forget a trip
to Honolulu in 1961, ther no other indication that such a trip, if
it occurred, had any sinister motives,

ina Las Verus sunbling establish-
xt for § days ii t

CHARACTER AND INTER ESTS

Family Relationships

As mentioned previously. Eva Grant was the auly member of the
fumily living in Dallas when Ruliy returned te tlt vity in Tate 1947,
In 1948, she returned to the west const, visiting: Dallas sporadically

Suz


13-00000

z

INTERNAL USE ony CONFIDENTIAL

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
Monday - 20 December 1976

15, (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Mike Epstcin, Senator William
Hathaway's (D., Maine). designee on the Senate Select Commiltteesondntelligence,
called to say that Senator Hathaway wanted to make it clear that the concerns
Epstein had relayed regarding the interviewing of Soviet emigrees were not
necessarily his own., Epstein asked that Agency records reflect that this
was Epstein's own concern. :

Epstein also said Senator Hathaway wanted to tour all Agency
buildings in the Metropolitan Washington area so that he would have’a better
understanding of the Agency's size, ‘deployment, and activities. I told Epstein

* this would be quite an extensive plan and I would bring him a list of all
Agency locations and what offices were located there and he could choose from
the list which buildings he wanted to visit.

16. (Confidential - DFM) TRAVEL Walt Ricks, Senator Robert

- Morgan's (D., N. Gar.) designee on the Se Se tee_on Intelligce.
called to ask that we brief Senator Morgaifin'é: Oday regarding
his trip to Panama and Mexico City. I accompanied Phil rendig, SA/DO/O,
George Lauder, C/LA, Tim Desmond, Panama Branch/DDO, and Tom Keenan,
Mexico City Branch/DDO, toa briefing on the[two Stations and their activities 7

4 (@perating Directives for both Stations]were shown to the Senator and Ricks.
Both Senator Morgan and Ricks have contacted State Department and DOD for
their assistance and Senator Morgan has asked Col. Dick Fisher, Department--
of the Army, to accompany him. He said he would still welcome an Agency
escort if we preferred. The main focus of his Panama visit now appears to be
the Canal treaty issue, although he does plan to spend one day with{Stationl29
personnel in Panama and two days witl{ Stationfpersonnel in Mexico City.

17. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Met with Howard Liebengood, Senate,
Select Committee on Intelligence Minority Staff Director, and informéd him’ that
the transcripts on Lee Harvey Oswald's telephone conversations in Mexico
City were available for Committee review at Headquarters.

18. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Tom Moore,, Senate Selectinn.,
1 Inteli staff, called to ask if he could review Agency

rie "Son George S. DeMohrenschildt again on the afternoon of 21 December
1976. After checking with(Phi ‘endig] SA/DO/O, I told Moore he could begin
his review at 2;00. He also asked to review the Lee Harvey Oswald transcripts
at the same time.

\

x
TERNAL USE ORLY CONFIDENTIAL

ne


13-00000.

INTERNAL USE ONLY - ssa 7

7-029 13

JOURNAL
OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Tuesday - 21 December 1976

1, (Internal Use-Only - DFM) LIAISON Called Ed Levine,
Senate Select Committee Intelligence“staff; to tell him the DDO had
“prepared a “eémipute isting for all the reports on Portugal for the period
Levine wants to review. I told him I would arrange for a meeting for him
and[Phil Féndig)) SA/DO/O, to review the listing and for a briefing on what
kind of reports are available.

2. (Unternal Use Only DFM) LIAISON Tom Moore, | Senate
Select | Commit staff, reviewed, in the OLC 5 Office, Agency
“files on George S. DeMobrenschildt and transcripts of Lee Harvey Oswald's
conversations with ‘the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City.

Senate ct Col ittee, on, Intelligence staff, who informed me that Committee
staffe: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence document
destruction review procedure and that he would send a letter to the Agency
with the Committee's position on this matter.

. 4, (Internal Use Only - DFM) BRIEFING Bill Miller, Mike
Madigan, Howard Liebengood, Mike Epstein, and Paula Schwartz, .§¢
Select Committee on Intelligence-staff, met with Bill Graver, C/EA,

‘EA, Tony Lapham, General Counsel, (Phil Fendig] SA/DO/O,
and myself, to discuss Agency programs in Micronesia. (See Memo fox
the Record. )

5. (Limited Official Use - cm) CONGRESSIONAL STAFF BRIEFING
Following up on the call of Helsinki Commission staffer Martin Sletzinger to
Bob Hepworth, Center for Policy Support, for a briefing on the USSR's
USA Institute and its chief, Georgiy Arbatov, and their influence on Soviet
foreign policy decision making and makers, J arranged with Sletzinger for
a briefing at Headquarters at 3:30 on.22 December for Sletzinger, Helsinki
Commission Staff Director Spencer Oliver, and staffer Robert Rand.

USE ONLY



re)

LC 76-3754 ©

23 December 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: (enix Fendig} SA/DO/O

SUBJECT : SSCI Requests

Attached in order to ensure a bright holiday for you, are

some new SSCI requests.

l. Rick Inderfurth asked for an Agency report on
the 20 December 1976 Jack Anderson column and the
article, entitled, "Mr. Death" in the January 1977 Playboy
magazine. Regarding the Anderson article, ] think we
should particularly comment on the statement in the first
column that Letelier carried the sensitive papers in his

briefcase in order to prevent

‘2. Mike Madigan called to inquire about the status
of the 13 December 1976 request to see files on six Cubans,
I said we were in the process of gathering materials.
added that the Committee would also like access to Agency
materials on two Cuban exile organizations: Alpha 66, and

SFNE (Second Front National

Atts
Distribution:
Orig - Adse
1 OLC/Subdj
1 - OLC/Chrono
OLC/DFM/ksn

their theft by CIA.

Escamrey).

(ler,

By
Donald F. Massey

Sscr HP



13-00000

es

/6-\7

SECRET
SENSITIVE

SUBJECT: Fact Sheet re Fidel Castro's Allegation that
CIA is Responsible for the 6 October Crash
of a Cuban Airplane near Barbados and Other
Terrorist Acts

1. In his speech of 15 October 1976 in honor of the
Cubans killed in the 6 October crash of the Cuban airplane
near Barbados, Fidel Castro said that he intended to abrogate
the anti-hijacking agreement between Cuba and the United
States because, he said, the CIA was responsible for the
destruction of the aircraft and that CIA is backing a
terrorist campaign against Cuba. Castro also charged that
CIA is planning. to assassinate him. In the speech Castro
said that Cuba has controlled a CIA agent over the past ten
years who had been asked by CIA to install an audio device
in the office of Osmani Cienfuegos, Cienfuegos is Secretary
of the Executive Committee of the Cuban Council of Ministers,
is the member of the Central Committee of the Cuban Communist
Party responsible for Africa and the Middle East, and is Fidel
Castro's principal advisor on African affairs.

2. Three people have been accused of responsibility for
the crash of the Cuban airplane. They are Hernan Ricardo
LOZANO, Freddy LUGO, and Luis POSADA Carriles. CIA has no
information on LOZANO or LUGO, At one time we had a relation-
ship with POSADA, but it was terminated in early 1974. Our
Caracas StationJhad occasional contact with him after that,
and the last me he was. met by an Agency officer was in June
1976, at which time he asked us for help regarding a visa
matter. His request for help was turned down. The FBI and
the Department of State have been informed of the above
regarding LOZANO, LUGO, and POSADA. There is no CIA connection
with any of the other terrorist incidents cited by Castro in
his 15 October speech.

3. In regard to Castro's announcement that the Cuban
government has had control over a CIA agent for ten years and
that this agent had been ordered to install an audio device
in the office of Osmani Cienfuegos, Castro was evidently

referring to an intelligence collection operation begun by

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET E2 IMPDET
SENSITIVE CL BY 025231



‘SECRET
SENSITIVE

this Agency in 1967 when we asked the agent to report on
Cuban military, economic, and political matters. From 1967
until the present, we have met-him a number of times when

he traveled out of Cuba and have communicated with him via
coded radio message and secret writing while he was in Cuba.
We gave him an audio device in January 1975 which he told us
he installed in Cienfuegos' office in March 1976. Obviously
he did not do so. We have attempted on two or three occasions
to actuate the device and being unable to do so we concluded
that. either the device had never been installed or that it
had malfunctioned.

4. We asked the agent in early October to inform us
regarding the possibility that Castro might travel to Angola
to participate in that country's independence celebration.
Castro insinuated in his 15 October speech that we had asked
about his travel plans in an attempt to assassinate him. This,
of course, is absolutely untrue. We continually follow the
travels of Fidel Castro and other high-level Cuban officials
as part of our standing objective to cover the Cuban leadership.
On this specific occasion we were particularly interested in
whether Castro would visit Algeria, Somalia, Mozambique or
other African countries if he traveled to Angola.

5. Castro also quoted an earlier, undated message
attributed to CIA which asked the agent a series of questions
about Cuban government reaction to terrorist acts against
Cuba. Such a mesSage was actually sent to the agent in May ,
1974. The purpose of this message was to develop intelligence
on how terrorist attacks against Cuba by anti-Castro exiles ~
affect relations between the United States and Cuba. CIA is
not repeat not engaged in Cuban exile terrorism against Castro's
Cuba.

2
SECRET
SENSITIVE



13-00000

GIA I

Journal ~ Qifice of Legislative Counsel
Friday ~ 3 Decernber 1976

4, (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON 1 called Edward Martin, i
Administrative Assistant to Senator Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.),
and told him I had heard that Bob Hunter, also on the Senator's staff,
had been in touch with the State Department about the Senator's interest
in talking with Viktor Belenko about his wife and family. I told him th
was no objection to the Senator meeting with Belenko but that Belenko ha
said he does nol want to,talk. with anyone about his domestic situation in
the Soviet Union, I pointed out that the Soviets are trying to prey on
Belenko's domestic situation and added that it was preferred by Belenko
that there be minimal publicity concerning any contacts, Martin said he
would discuss the matter with Senator Kennedy and be back in touch with
me,

5. (Confidential - DFM) BRIEFING Accornpanied Elliot MaxweNn,
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to a meeting with John J
DCD, and Evvy Vidal, O/SA/DO/O, in conne
sIl's upcoming trip to the West Coa Maxwell is going to
with DCD end FR representatives im San Fr.
representative
informed rne there was some opposition to his vis
therefore this would not be part of hi

s of these offices in

s trip.

visit to the Spe
outline of the

we 6. (Jate 1 Use Only - DFM) LIAISON I called Torn Moore
Select Committee on Intelligence stafi, to let him know that 1 thought he
begin review of the George S. DeMohrenschildt files about next Wednes
8 December 1976. Moore said Howard Liebengood, also of the Select Corrunittve
staff, also wanted to look at these materials and he might want to start with
Office of Security files on 6 December. However, Liebengood never called
to make firmn arrangements, Moore expressed particular interest in a Jetter
DeMohrenschildt had sent to the Director in September and lt said I would try
to have it available for him on Monday.

VY FUL


13-00000

3 °
Review Staff: 75/1668
28 July 1975
Mr. William G. Miller
Staff Director
Select Committee To Study Governmental
Operations With Respect To Intelligence
Activities
Room G-308
Dirksen Senate Office Building
Washington, D.C. 20510
7 Dear Mr. Hiller:
The attached paper is in response to a request for
files and materials relating to the 1967 IG Report on
— . Assassinations. The question was posed to Mr. Scott

Breckinridge during. his 2 Juie 1975 appearance before
the Senate Select Committec.

ery : Sincerely,
Stm 4
a tame se
SO ne : Walter Elder
Assistant to the Director
Attachment:

As stated


7 ; 17 July 1975,

Subject: SSC Request to Breckinridge During his 2 June Appearance,
: for Files and Materials relating to the 1967 IG Report on
Assassinations, Including Tab A after Page 77 of the Report.
“4 a
* Response: siitioee
A search has been made for the files of the Chief, WH
Division in 1967 (Desmond Fitzgerald), and those of Col,
J. C, King. At that time Mr, Fitzgerald was. alive; he
has since died and his files do not exist as an integral
collection, although portions may exist in different
holdings in WH Division, Col. King had retired at the
time of the IG inquiry, but he was still working under a
special contract and was at the Headquarters Building
+ at Langley where he had retained some personal files;
his files are na-longer identifiable, -

. Other materials, reviewed by the Inspectors in 1967 were
limited in nature, some of which have been made available
to SSC Staff members in envelopes in which they have been
held since’ 1967, The SSC Staff members have had access
to the project files of QUWIN, WIROGUE, ZRRIFLE and

2 (EMDEED.
“"". Bhould they wish

‘access to the files relating to the anti-Diem coup, they
can be made available on request.
Fy}

