# 104-10175-10164

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10175-10164

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

L3 ENCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Opsonal)

FROM:

INTERNAL

ONLY

• CONFIPENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NO.

DATE

& SECRET

Chief, WH/PO/A

1O: (Officer dengnation, noce number, end

britcheng)

30 January 1962

DATE

RECEIVED

ICEMANENO

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

-Feck alleng O3

2.

R1/3 - MoXICO

Doe Reeves :03

3.

4.

5.

6.

Ruth F.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

5

gol

Get our

sore trom whon

RETUAN TO CIA

Do Not Repre

safe,

13.

PORE SO 610 MINES I SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

701-278841

INTERNAL

JUSE ONtY

UNCLASSIFIED

2188

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

an.-.-

26 January 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

AMUPAS-1

1: On Friday, 26 January 1962, Jane Roman (CI Stall Liaison

a. What is our relationship to AMtPAS-l at this

time?

Do we have any objection to tbe Bureau's ad

vising the Departient of Justice that ANPAS-1 may be

listed as a prospective witness in & forthcoming Depart-

ment of Justice c-se?

The bureau added that it rould

assign a I nuncer and would not otherwise identify ber:.".

to the reparinet of úustice..

2. I advised Mrs. Roman that. AMUPAS-1 is still an agent for WH

Division. I further advised her that we would have no cajection.to

the Department listing her as a prospective vitress i1 it assigned

her a I number and rould not utherwise identify her to the Department

of Justice.

I raised a question concerning ANUFAS-l's late on her

return to the states, since we did not wish to destroy ber operational

potential. Mrs. Roman said that she would advise the Bureau of our

continuing interest in AMUPAS-1 even if the latter retursed to the

states, and would get assurance from the Bureau that ste would not be

03

CLARK W.

Інтьна

SINNONS

Chief, WH/FC/A

Lici

SECRET

201-278841

1/BR

---

