“1¢gonig + __ster ge ast weet S
104-10172-10260| =”. | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

CIA INTE Quy

Cl INFORMATION REPORT
ppastorace ci
pee SSSR-_s63¥ 9 +
: ti FOLLOWLIG REPORT CONTAINS TNFORMATION DERIVSD FROT A SENSITIVE

SOURCE AND BSQUIRES SPECIAL HANDLING. IT MAY BE SSCWN ONLY TO
PERSONS WIM A REED TO KNOW AND MAY NOT RECEIVE GEASRAL DISTRIBUTION
WITHIN RECIPIENT OFFICES. FURTHER DISSEMINATION OF THIS INFORMATION
MUST BE COORDINATED WITH THE ORIGINATING OFFICE.

SECRET/NO FOREIGN OtSSEM

(aas28-400


i
H
i
{
?

HCRET/NO FOREIGN DISSE

COUNTERIN

Country: USSR»
| Subject? Anatoliy Mtkhaylovich GOLITSYN
H ! pot : 1966 ~ 1972

Source : A former Sovict military officer who defected to the Weat and”
was later run as a KGB agent

i Any dissemination of this information to Field
Stations or to officers not on the initial

| : distribution must hotoordinated with E/CT/X.

fi As a general Tule, [POSTORAGE information is)

ie 7 fot releasable to forcign or domestic ‘l

4 services or to any office outside the boa,

# 1. During the period 1966 to 1972 Source had @ standing requirement from
his RGB handlers to report anything he could learn about the defectors Anatoliy
Mikhaylovich Golitsyn and Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko, in addition to a general
Yequirement to report on ahy Soviet defectors. At first the KGB gave Source to
understand that the KGB's intention was to kill Golitsyn and Nosenko, if they
could be located; tn fact, the KGB specifically told Source that this was its
intention toward Nosenko. SEC

2. Ia 1968 Source's KGB handlor said that the KGB had information
Andicating that both Colitsyn and Nosenko were somewhat unhappy and seemed to

, Regret having defected. The handler added that, now that there were direct
flights between the US and the USSR, Coliteyn or Nosenko might be "put in a box"

| and flown to the USSR. Source was again urged to try to find out the whereabouts
of these defectors. : !

{

3. . In 1972 Source's KCB handler indicated Particular interest in the
whereabouts of Golitsyn, saying that he might be more dissatisfied than Nosenko
‘with condicfons in the US. Soutce was told to continue efforts to establish
seoatact with Colitsyn and to assess his recruitment potential. When Source
;Safd chat he had previously been given to understand that the KGB wanted to kill

£2 meet cl BY 011340

WARMING “OTH
StHOMVE WreLKE CE

ANO METHODS tH

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISS!

SOURCES
VOLVED.



AdCOH80.

Seatac SE AEE emammet rca ameeeauaarepemaccae cesarean TE

a fans

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

2 4

‘| Golitsyn, the KCB handler dented that this had ever been the K73"s intention,
although he allowed that Source's previous handler might have said that on his

own. Souree had the impression hat the KGB vas convinced that, if Coliteyn :

were properly approathed, he would work for the KGB apein.

COMMENT:

q The above information is being made available outside DDP te C/CS/Security
1 ~ Analysis Group:'in EYES ONLY memorandum fore without reference to the/Pl STORAGE

exyptonya, On
27 June 1975

Distribution: 7

4-C/SE/CI/X. or i
L-SE/CI/X [Gctaes)] i
2C/CIRA cf

' 3-C/SE/CI/E

1 2-SE/CI/R (Young)

‘SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

