# 104-10162-10174

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10162-10174

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

ROUTING

DATE : 2 AUG 52

SECRET

•DIRECTOR

FROM , LONDON

201

ACTORE SAS 8

ню.

DOR, ADDR,

SOD 6, CA 2, Ca/PIE, Ca/PrOP, Ca/O 4

c8/075, co/Ic 2

F8,

58/0, 50/1055, 10, ur!

un To Do/1, ao/co 2, 10/HER. R5 2.

Rpit

AUG Z 2138Z 63

ROUTINE

IN 92345

ToCS

DIR INFO MANA CARA WAVE LANT SJOS SUAN CITE LOND 3857

INTEL TYPIC

05

SUPDATA SOURCE [SMOTH) NO. INDEX

TIME FILED 13387

REPORT CLASS SECRET. NO FOREIGN DISSEM DEL 35,938 CUBA SUBU POSSIBLE

ESTABLISIMENT OF A CUBAN EXILE, BASE IN NICARAGUA DOS JULY 63 PADA

ENGLAND LONDON 2 AUG 63 SOURCE

FROM A SOURCE

DESCRIBED AS WELL KNOWN AND EXPERIENCED IN REPORTING, PROBABLY

RELIABLE, QUOTING CUBAN EXILES IN VENEZUELA, INCLUDING (FOR PARA

2) SALVADOR ROMANI".

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty;

Do Nol Reproduca

IW COMMENT:

NO DISSEMINio. do Ui JoE ATTACHED

TO PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS BENN

MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENADASTE

ERASE BY THE ACTION UNTTO

TuES

PRECIDENCE

ROViN

PRICAITY

BLASAG MO

DATE DISTRISATED

RASED ORd

WAISON

SECRET.

com

vrOn

ACLAIMLATO

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIENTED.

Copy Mo.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TELEGRAM JINFORMATION REPORT HELEGRAMI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY

SUNTECT

RUORI Ma TÜCS

DATE DISTR

PRECIDENCI

DATE OF

- INFQ

MACE &

DATE ACQ

APPRAISAI

REFERENCES

81. 92345

HELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUATED NFORMATION

sovaCe

ON 16 JULY 63, MANUEL ARTIME, LEADER OF APRIL 1961 BAY OF

PIGS INVASION, ANNOUNCED THAT HIS GROUP, MOVIMIENTO DE RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIOVARIA (MRR) IS PLANNING TO LEAVE THE UNITED STATES AND ESTABLISH

AN ANTI CASTRO BASE ELSEWHERE. CUBAN EXILES IN VENEZUELA CONSIDER

MOST LIKELY SITE FOR THIS BASE WILL BE NICARAGUA. THEY CONNECT

ARTIME'S STATEMENT WITH HIS VISIT TO NICARAGUA IN FIRST WEEK APRIL

1963. HOWEVER, THEY DO NOT CONSIDER NICARAGUA IS IN A STRONG ENOUGH

POSITION TO DEFY THE UNITED STATES' POLICY OF BLOCKING RAIDS ON CUBA.

.2..

SALVADOR ROMANI, I CUBAN EXILE PRESENTLY UNCONNECTED WITH ANY

EXILE PARTY, SAID. ON 17. JULY THAT THE MAR'S MOVE IS CERTAIN TO TAKE

SECRET

CUASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

DIA ARGYPACSO MAVY AND JES

SECORD USA MIE ANO USTA OGI ON

ола 001

00

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAMS

---

