# 104-10117-10112

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10117-10112

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

(Classily When Filled In)

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST

SEE HR 10-7 BEFORE SUBMITTING TO EAB AN ORIGINAL AND 3 COPIES OF THIS FORM

DATE

TO

DIRECTOR OF SECURITY; ATIV:

EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCH

4 Oct 1962

THROUGH:

(Operating official,

administrative and/or security officer)

161:

Mar. A. Mayo, Ir.

03

Eagleyce Faa Here Priara2 consorning his

JOHN A. MAYO, Jr.

I0SEO2SI-

-cuzanü 1a taio ratter.

RID Security Officer

NAME AND GRADE OF EMPLONE

Print or type) COMPONENT

ROOM NO. AND BLDG.

PHONE

FROM

Fores, Dantel -GS

DDP/OPSERV/RID/RB/IN

184003

6727

1. DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY FOR WHICH APPROVAL IS REQUESTED:

Private Stady:

English Composition - Mrs. Dorothy Owens

Backgrouds of Civilization - Hrs. Mirian Haskett

World Politics - Ihtlip X. Burgess

Introduction to Economics - Mr. W1111an Wendt

2. FULL

NAMES

OF ORGANIZATION AND/OR PERSONS INVOLVED

American University, Washington, D.C.

3. DATE(S) OF PARTICIPATION AND LOCALE OF ACTIVITY

September, 1962 - February, 1963

Washington, D.C.

4. REMARKS

In engaging in the requested activity I will make no reference to, or discuss

my CIA assignments or duties nor will I make reference to or

REQUESTING EMPLOYEI

5. CONCURRENCES AND/OR APPROVAL WITHIN OPERATING OFFICE

FOR COMPLETION BY EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

FOOTT 1062

Dot

Foiv

the

Thit..

her been granted for

atty the request

i SeGuiny Division

9-61 879 USE PORTIOUS

EDITION

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

(9-38)

---

