'104-10186-10231 [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Lniiea siatrs wtinin the meaning of the Espionage Lave, Tite

‘Tiils material contains tnformation azecting the Rational Detense of
aay ccanner to 68 unsulberised perce le prohibited Wy law,

44, UBC. Gece 789 and 704, the tranumlasion of revelation of which

SECRET ‘
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
COUNTRY Cuba, ” REPORT NO. Segre au eaae
SUBECT (fnu) SUNOL DATE CSTR. = 6 October 1964
NO. PAGES = 2 Xs NJ
& :
REFERENCES, Lees
oy,
pate of 1964 i &s SOF
INFO. Se KS
pce & Washingtoa, D. C.
DATE ACQ. October 1964 eww reront
THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF 1S TENTATIVE.

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the scurce and includes, supplemental
information [rom the records of this Agency.

It 1s requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

Comandiite SUNOL, on orders from Fidel CASTRO, instructed
Manuel PINEIRO, by letter (which source saw), to arrange for
guerritla warfare training in June or July 1963, for a Guatemalan
named Marco Ac 1c LEONE Aguilar aad others whom CASTRO had act
in Moscow.!,2,

Headquarters Comments

In a repert dated 13 November 1959, a usually reliable source .
stated that a Cubar school teacher who volunteered her
services to the Department of Tecnhical, Material, and Cultural
assistance for the Farmers, wrote a letter to the Chief of

the National Revolutionary Police in which she informed him
that Eddie SUNOL, an offiger an the Cuban Rebel Army, was
alagaed with TRUJILLO, the Dominican dictator, against the
then present Cuban government. r

2. Another office of «tis Agency reported that an untested source,
in a report dated 21 June 1962, said that Comandante Eddy SUNOL
Ricardé was the former chief of the 7th Military District and
a veteran PSP member in Purnio, Holguin. After leaving the

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

‘STATE DA. Taemy TNavy Taw “Tra RX oce FBT
SCLAST__CISCSO 3 __JANS

there Fald dustnbution Indseored Oy ”

reer

—____i XO PROJECT (AMMUG/
Snag Tees -316/ 01232-44

WH SWAVE
roreeswn sa 7 (1), WE 1 (2),



SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSC1-316/01232-64

-2-

7th Military District he went to North Vict Nam and other Soviet Bloc
countries. In October 1961 he was in Holguin where he was active

in the supervision of Communist propaganda programs. SUNOL was born
about 1927, is about five fect eight inches tall, 160 pounds, and
has a dark complexion.

In a report dated 19 October 1962, an untested source reported that
Major Eduardo SUNOL was in command of Division 59 which was sent to
combat insurrectionists active in the spurs of the Sierra de Gibara
in Cuba, :

An untested source, in a report dated 22 October 1962, said that
Eddy SUNOL Ricardo, a Rebel Army major who fought with Fidel CASTRO
in the mountains, was hig cousin. SUNOL held ranking position in
tae ORI in Oriente Province, is a Communist, and lives in Santiago
de Cuba. SUNOL was born in 1923, is five feet ten inches tall,
180 pounds, had a dark complexion, black hair and.cyes, and wears
a Rebel Army uniform with a major insignia. His son, Hector SUNOL,
born about 1945, has lived with Raul CASTRO in Habana since 1959,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
