# 104-10234-10435

## Page 1

104-10234-10435

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

AMLASHlI

1 Sept.amber 1964

MiNERANDUL FOR. TIE RECOND

SUBJECT: Invitation to AHLASH/1 VIa XAnUel RODRIGUEZ.

REFERENCE: AJWHIP/1 lieso, dated 31 August 1964

1.

At 1130 hours on 4 September 1964, AIMHIP/1 tolo-

phoned

the undersigned from Now York to say that he had just

talked with RODRIGUEZ in Mexico.

RODRIGUEZ had stated that

no, as a private citizen and doctor,

was unable to arrango

an

Invitation for ALASH/l to the 10th National Assembly of

surgeons to be held in Yexico City, In Novenber 1964.

Ho

had, however, been able to arrange

to have AMLASH/l Invited

by the Mexican Govt, through the help of a Mexican official

whose name ANNHll/l had forgotten (but dollgered that lt

sas Cantzares, or zonething similar).

If there are no bitches,

thes, nalisill should be able to come to Mexico this November.

Eduardo PERNAS: AMWHIP/1 said that he had made a

mistake regarding the name of the long-tine mistress of PERNAS;

that her nicknane vas "Nica" (DI. Antonio YANEZ), rather than

"TINA" (Vincentina ANTUNA) as be

had previously thought: (Th18

conforms to Information provided by & WAVE report).

AINHIP/1's Mexican Visa: AlWHIP/l stated that he had

had trouble the last time he applied for a lexican visa (some

six nonths ago), and asked 1f ve could help bin in this matter.

He was told that this would be too obvious to too many people,

and that it was best 11 he try again himself, glving either

business of plessure as the reason for wishing to travel to

Mexico.

He said that he mould try again himsolf today (the

fourth).

ANNHIP/1 plans to leave tonight or tomorron for Mlaal,

return to New York (probably) and then depart for Europe next

Tuesday (the 8th) or thereabouts. He will be in his office in

New York until about 1700 this eventag.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

= SECSET

8. AlWHIP/1 w111 tolephone AHLASH/1 IrOn New York this

evening and convey ^ to feot-1n

the invitation to the Surgoong, Prearranged code the feet that

Assembly u111 be forthconing.

HIllian E. HainwrIght

WH/SA/EOB

SECRET

---

