# 104-10308-10006

## Page 1

1704-10308-10006

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

(

MEMURANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: AMCLOCK Production and Correspondence

Job #

76-485/10

File #

19-6-133/4

Dates included:

1960-64

Volumes:

4 by (Felipe Acevedo)

6

by (kathy Blevins)

03

1. Description:

An on-island asset.

2. Findings:

≥2

a. (ESGW-193 dated 2 September 1960, 68-6-147/4:

General requirements on Cuba for Subject. Question

m. "Precautions taken to prevent possible assassination

attempts of top Cuban officials."

b. TDCSDB 3/651,885, dated 25 Oct 62;

Views of Soviet diplomat on Cuban situation.

"The

• Soviet diplomat commented that the USSR would not

let the American move go without retaliation. (No doubt

referred to the missle crisis.)

c.

TDCSDB 3/652/011 dated 1 Nov 62: Concerned

reaction of Satellite officials to Cuban crisis developments.

One remarked that Cuba was as important to the USA as to

the USSR and thus conflict was inevitable. Some agreed

that Pres. Kennedy had made a tactical error in not simply

invading Cuba without narning. An East European remarked

that all the European nations had shown understanding of

"Kennedy and his ships, and would let him play around with

3|IN

---

## Page 2

13-00000

- 2 -

them until the elections, but after the elections he

would have to put them away and negotiate seriously.

d. GNVA 6117 (IN 00894) 18 Jan 64: Re Soviet bloc

officials attitude towards U.S. internal political

developments. An East European attributed the assassination

of Pres. Kennedy to the Birch Society but stated that

something must have gond wrong at the last moment. He

speculated that an attack on the USSR was to have followed

on the heels of the assassination but had somehow been

forestalled.

e. GNVA 6316 (IN 31199) 3 Mar 64: Raul ROA said

that prior to his assassination, Pres. KENNEDY "established

certain contacts" with Cuba. Kennedy had sent emissaries

to contact Cubans. ROA specifically cited contacts that

had taken place in New York. ROA thought that KENNEDY

would have gone on to negotiate with Cuba, which would

have been to Cuba's advantage. He thought

that

Pres. Johnson was unaware of KENNEDY's actions:

03

(Felipe ACEVEDO

Researcher

---

