} 4-00 0C = i: aia a
'/104-10170-10139) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

- of —-FHIS COPY4S NOT
FOR RELEASE

Condensed Information on Sgt. Marshall HOUTS from: WASH-SEC-OP-13
folder 14 MHZ -- 618 0 September 1945 .

a.
a. While still at Kyankpyn Major Charles J. TREES SISSERIEE

and Captain Carrol C.. GARRETSON called HOUTS to their

tent. (TREES was HOUTS' Commanding Officer and GARRETSON

was Executive Officer to TREES.) TREES stated that GARRETSON

had discovered fifty-one .45 calibre automatic pistols at

Chittagong which were “charged out to no one."" TREES and

GARRETSON believed they could get a “good amount" of money

from the sale of the weapons, but they wanted HOUTS' advice so

they wouldn't get caught. (HOUTS had been in the FBI). They

offered HOUTS one -third of the profit and, after several days,

he agreed.

b. On the night of 3-4 July 1945 HOUTS assisted in the
clandestine delivery of the pistols toa Lt. Col. Tun Aung, a
Burmese officer in the "Burma Rifles” for burial, until a market
could be found.

ce. On 15 July 1945 TOUTS was questioned by the OSS
investigator and assisted him in the recovery of the pistols.

2. Durin, rst week that HOUTS was in Rangoon an informer
told him that 90 swords had been buried in the compound of A. Habeed.
At GARRETSON's cirection and expense HOUTS had the swords cleaned.
On 25 May 1945 HOUTS delivered them to TREES’ quarters. On'13 July
1945 TREES quarters were searched and 36 swords were found and
confiscated by OSS. (Several classified documents were also found in
TREES duiite bag.)

under their command

3. TREES. GARRETSON and person:
misappropriated property (jewelry and old bouks) during the first two

weeks of the oceusation of Rangoon.

4. Six CSS serso: lwere killed ina plane crash early in June.
Three parachutes Were recovered from the crashed pi GARRETSON
and HOUTS had pajamas and other articles of clothing tailored from the

parachutes.

3. In Spring 1945 TREES and GARRETSON were involved in the

illegal sale of opi
is



6. In early July 1945 TREES and Hots were involved in an

illegal money exchange.

7. Specific charges against HOUTS, as recommended by the

investigating officer: :

a. Misapplication of 50.45 calibre automatic pistols
and one Model M-3 submachine gun, property of the U.S.

b. Conspiracy with TREES and GARRETSON to misapply
the above firearms.

c. Larceny of 86 swords.

d. Conspiracy with TREES and GARRETSON to feloniously
take, steal and carry away 86 swords.

e. Conspiracy with TREES and GARRETSON to procure
and deal in abandoned property found in Rangoon.



: * SLI cmt eee ieee

SoU-Comet-T

won

STE ROS
SP Suky 19sh

pate oi

NO Pacts .
BLANC
Sypleoestary te NA 3,303,001

342) Cave 3
Sah eeeSpaE

FW NCAT U RSET

LL. Com you tell an wat was the leagt? of the nila Hines ass:

nan carrlees Im Case and what was the totel fengtn af ait
Yas conatnod?

AL team onty acoch foe tha alleaga of 122 Corsolldatec Rai lusrs of
cota, AMEN ran fran Seats Clara to Camsyvoy to Santiacy wa Cata to
Eocalanozs, PT wauld sry (MOU tho mala tng ond the brancaas corsined

vaule da Hd pive alles.

¢ eorson on asia Hacat (oag ca ads

Yio. Mat esigat of eat bee
jga Feld aad ave tis plete eneotiy wa

Shorsutraze aos of nant maton

ALL would sey 13 gost comoaty usad 63 2 yar.
oper sont of (No nala Nes has 125 Los ie
G2 Tee gar are. The asgraairate azo of oo

Ty ta 33 poor,

sete



SOCAL
c0-K 32 y/o ste

Ro Mae cay hee extet
Tid Bre ties sreateds
Line tn aatactiee service?
Lien nae im Sep cain Une?

Ta tem east of ny racattectlon, there
fonain Vine, Tha thes ave of herd wood but thes are not Cresteds
oye Te of the tien Te adaet 15 yours and (wuld vay that the
ay8 2! tne Clay not on the aalaiine Ie about 15 veers,

siGats ond ir sieate alte af principal frelyht classification yords end acter
feel jat orto. ae

AL Que aote ccossification yards wore ot Sante Ciara, Conaguoy, Moran,
Saatio5> ée Deus, and Goantanano, _

qe Lucata sd Cescelvo the principal repair shogs far stesa and for Cosel
Toconatlves. . 7

AL No hot complete revate shops for both steea end diesel locosotives is the
Sastsen ovtstiers of Cougeoy City. As 2 mattar of fact, these shops are
Shown on the 049 of Canaguay City uhich eppesrs on the road aap of Cate
publb shed by E550 Stancard O11, $A, fn 1956.

Q. Locate and cescriba the princtpal repair shops for frelght end pasmanger cars,
AL The tone scat a Cacasesy CItywere uted for the capate of fright ant

parsenger cars. Ta Consollested Rallweys of Cubs did el! of thale om resalee
Pe ta seéithon they did work for vartous sugar alls In tho area,

fa ary zort of tha systen clectrifted?

a

G& th rare 2 Stvislon berwean Maes operated by élasel and etens aottya port

AL Mo, Tee @octcd iteays of Cubs hed Bh dlosels ond six stoen eoglnas.
The sia tises englngs wore used wore of 1eb3 for onargency wort.

Q. Unst Fe tae munbor end toral length of, tunnels?

AL Toere are no tunnels on the syster,

G. Ftaie ta number of locontives ta each aajor caterory, of dlevel. seme

Seg Meeteic anc, ianoiae as geasible, Dresk the totals dows by horsepower,

dja ana ceantey of origing

fed, va hed Bb dlovel englacs and 114 stots englacs.
‘soout hese but | hae that sane of the dlasels were
To 650 Rorsep amor [400 O0-K-3.

AL fet eaee 52
rerater ta estat!
1a hortepmar, sone 900 and seve 600

Piasse give the munber af passenger care ond the munber of friaght care,
atcaie tnat | connot glyo you accurate figuras. I know that ow Mat over

toe thovennt fralgat care but | do. .9t Fanaager the eaect masber por 6a |
Tete ine ouber of passenger cara, £500 00-K-3,903,601, The “on ©

faterial eoataing thle Lnfomett

Q. Vera amy sossenger of fealght care ogulpped wf th roller bearlaget

AL Yet, tome, but | do not remeber Roy asay.
G. Are diewat locanstlves aparatod Im ovlttple?

AL Yea. bet mot eteays, U1 expends on tha mal gst ef the repln and the
yinde af De Hae, aa ‘i ‘



ae” SE ay:

7 =k 324/02953-64

G, Bout each fralght trata carry 2 ceboose on ts rear end?
AL Yee :

Q; What Is the overage and macioun speed of passenger trélas between stops?

A. Maxims spbed was $0 ait
4 lastous speed wes $0 aly per hour ond craraas of oat aare than 20

Can you give the mebor of anplcyees of the conson cartier raliroses?
Ua there @ sessonal variation tn eaployeont?

A. 1 can only speak for the Consolidated Ralleays of Cubs which ed ever
19 thousand exployéas, There wos @ seesonsl variation but It mes wory slight,

@. Can you describe the metn frolght haulace pattem of the ralleey tysten
OF Cuba? Indicate asjor commodities and direction of eovewat.

A, 1 can speak onty for the Consolidated Ral tueys of Cade. The mata tral fie
wav on tha Cubs Rallroad and the Vottara Rallrosd of Cae. The Roavlest tratfle
Mas fron Canequey to Huavitas. The Consolidated Ral lneys af Cubs bandied
one third of. the Cuban suger crop, so that aust of the traffic was from tbe
tiger wills £9 the coast. Mowover, tho rellucy also Aandlad cattio, Plea,
vegetables and of | and otner comodi tion.

Q. What fe the average Length of Raul? (Tals vas stated La @ 1952 resort
a8 36.8 ki losoters.) i

A. 1 would say that I 1960 1t wea adout the cana as tn 1952,

. nat are the principal routes of peasenger roverasi? Mav dane ere
such covercats?

AL t would sey to and feos Havana, t would estinate that tn chle crattle
the rallrosds coreled sdaut s1% thoutend passengers per 487.

Q. Is cally commutation o algatficant tector 10 the movewnt of passengers.

AL tt Is mot a significant factor.

Q. te lassethan-cartotd pavement of ralett ve feportance 14 the total
eoveseat of Cunan Freight?
ALS would sey tmat It 18 not vary leyortant.

GQ. With respect ta laports ont aspocts, wnat ports are used for greatest
fatcrchenge cf Lonnoge, Between. the roi lronts end acta’ snipatag? Ts wit
aatant are these eam ports of any ethers used for Interchange with Cost)

for the Cansaltdsted Raf loayt of Cuba, f wale say Maavitas
1b, Sonetago da Cube, Bocsaran, Antitte, Sata Cros del Sore
A vanil@ say trae any intecchanj we

Q. tn what condition ore the principal Aigiaays of Cuda?
A. Phare te only cna cain hlgmmey on the Toland wAten rons practicaity Ne
cute lerctn of the Teland fro Pinar dal Rio to ta.ena to Santioge <6 Sane.
Tale Bigraay sae Im poor candition wan t eft Code fa 1961.

Ge Vek earmodt ties ary moved py mater ranioert ant Gosecel eAlerts 7

AL fuger, mood and ganaret commodities,

“ $oG-to8



ot ae

weeuer
weak SE LfORCS pte
26, 3. Mat Te the general pactam ang direction of flow of tale tes
AL Foon countey to altt

22. g. Rat const orattons ceteratng the selection of Ihe scant of transport
for the mejor commodities awed?

A, Price, thes, ature of comiodity, and facilities,
34. Q. WNat pipelines, If any, are located In Cus?

AL Mone to af knowledge,





3

S60 tot
Oak 2/01
ore :
8. hae sing thes cathe per Ailoratar of méta Haat vnet type of
Syst Aractisy tretteds 10 99, Un wnat Aan

(stn aatectton service? Can you @

tien one im tees cain Line?

AL" To th east of my recollection, there tr
aie Allgeaver fain Moe. The th

The avsrags “ife of tha: thes te sdovt lS yosrs
avoraga

A. Our mais ecesniftéatton yards ware af Sante Clara, Conagudy, Moran,
Ssatiosa a Law, and Gusntenano,

2. Licata aed conceive the principal copeie shops for stoas and Cor sient
toconati vas.

A. Nenad cxplote ropsie shogs for both stadia and diesel loccsotives ta the
caster outatirts of Casiguey City. Asa nator of fact, the

dhown on tne #47 of Canaguay Clty which spears on the road map of Cine
published by Esso Stancard O11, $A, In 1956,

2. Locate end cuscriba the principal repair shops for fré

AL Tha sere sisys 16 Casazedy Clty-ware used for the rapate of trelgt and
partonger cars, Te Consolidated Ral lweys of Cubs did all of thelr wa teoalcs
sad in Sdéition they did work for varlous suger allls In tho area,

G ts ory port of the systan oloctel fled?

AL ts.

GIs there s étvision botwoan Ines operated by diesel and stoa aotive porart

AL Mo, Tea Goractig.itt Railways of Cubs hed Gh dloxols ond six stece enginas.
Tha sha staes enginas wore used aore of less for cnargency work.

Q. Mast Is che minder snd total length of, tunnels?

AL There are eo tunnels ca the systea,

G. Stare chm number of locomatives Ia each aajor category, of dlcsel, stems

ais electrte: and, insofar as possible, Break the totals dom by horannamr,
ajo ond ccaxtry of orlgin,

AL 204 Rave stated, wa hod && diesel engloes and s1a stosa enginos, » #9 aot
ronater the €utal!s about there but | haaw that sone of the diesels wore

1609 horsesamer, 50m 900 and sews 600 to 650 horsepawer /s00 GO-K~3,5E3,307.
G. Please give the munber of passenger care ond the maber of frleght care.

AL ta etraie that | connot give you eccurate figures. 1 know that wa had over
two thousand fralght cart but 140 -3t ranemper the axect mumbor nor 2 ¥
rerecper tne oucber of passenger care, {$00 09-K-3,903,001, The “on thie*
paterial contains thle Inforaatt

Vore any pessanger of frolght core equipped with roller besringa?
Yos, sane, but | do not remember how aeay,
Are disse! locomotives epereted 1a ovltiple?

A. Yea, bet mot always, 11 Goponds on the pal gat of the Erpia and the
gente of the Hine, Eee ea am EEE

4 teeomelet



7 BEF ay!

S-t-Cnt-7
-)5
Dost each frelght troia carry’s caboose on Its reer end?

00K 323/01953-6

Yes : aa

What 10° tho overage and mation specd'of passenger tralas botweca stops?

F . Ss A. Manlmus specd was $0 alles por hour end average of not more than 30
al tes por nour,

Q.. Can you give the number of anplayeas of the comson carclor ral roada?
1a there e seasonal’ variation In sapleymant?

A. 4 Can only sposk for the Consolidated Railways of Cuba which hed over
19 thousand onptoyasi, Thera wet inal variation but It was wary allght,

Q. Can you describe the ealn fralght houlace pattarn of the rallwey ayten
OF Cuba? Indicate aalor coimodi ties and direction of novenaat.

A. 1 ean apoth only for the Consolidated hal leeys of Cube. The mata teaffic
wo0 of the Cube Ral Troed and the Waster Rallrosd of Case: The Boav

wets fron Canaquoy to tivavi tas, The Coneal dated Sal ways of Cuba Rundled
one third of..the Cuban suger crop, $6: that aost of tho trefflc was fron the
tiger allie fo'the coast. However, tha ralleay also handled att

vegetables and oll and other comsodi ties.

Q. What 1s the average Hongth of haul? (This was stated Ia 0 1952 rebort
36.8 ki tonaters,)

A, Uwauld sey to end fron Havana, 1 would ostinste thar in thls traftle
the rallroads carcted about 314 thousand parsengars per day. .

Q. Is dally comutation © slgaificant tactor I tha sovanant of passengers.
AL It Te not @ signi fleang feetor.

Q. ts lossethan-cartatd povement of rataitve foportence 1A tha total
eoveneat of Cunsn frat ght?

A, fF would sey that It 18 mot vary Important,

Q. With respect to Imports ond exports, whet ports are vind for greatast
Interchange of tonnage, betwoan.'ths rol lroe’s ond occa shipaing? To stat
aatant ore these sem ports of any otters used for Interchange with Coutteisa

shipping?

A. Spasking for the Comollgated Ral lasys of Cuba, 1 woule say Reswitan,
Tirata, Pestoltito, Santiago do Cubs, Boreran, Anti lle, Santa Cree del Ser,
and Casbiga.. | wovld say that any interchange wItn-coestwise aninaing Ue
Taatgal leant,
@. In meat condition ara the principal Algmways of Cuda?
A, Taare 10 only cas aala Righty on the Letand wAlen rune practically the
ertica length of the leland from Pinar dal Kio to lovene to bantiege a Sunt
Tole highmy was In poor condition when t left Cube 19 1361,
Woes camesiti0s ary moved by peter, treninarl and goaeeel eAIpele:?

. 7

AL Sager, mood ond genera? commodities.



newer
ee

soot Seong cate”

Ireciton of flow of inte: teatetad

Quy wide einlde:
Tat tha Safar gored tt

A. rigs, 163, nature St eowedly

Anat pipaitied, 14 ay, are Tecate’ th Cuba?

