# 104-10433-10067

## Page 1

Audraunt

1104-10433-10067

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

•StideoT: Mind, bartin bittor

Carol bens a losest

I, Martin isther ATiü di.,

born Is Juary 1929 in atlanta, Georgia,

has been describad a3

the nost probirent leader of tho civil rights movesent

in tho is. lie is the President of the Sorthorn Chridtian Leadership Conference,

(suic), and is a recipiert of the lobel Peace Prise.

2. In Subject's lany activ sics in the civil rights novent, he has

sousit and relied upon the advice of variois individuals, Including the

following:

B.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date & mate?»

---

## Page 2

13-00000

lin Thovoctober 1964 issue of Vie iove, en Italion weekly magazino

ois ed by the Italian Comuniat Party, (PCI), carried in article entitled

"hat ie regroca Ask of the President" nich Vir inve cinined Subject troto

for its exclusive publication. The article concerned the civll rights

question in the US and did not appear to bo directed specifically to a

Communist audience.

Despite the date of fio publication the article appeared to

navo been written song months before.

5.' an article appearing in the bashlnaton lost on t loveber lob staied

tren Subjec' nso plenins a violt to the Soviet Uniona Ho reportedly had been

---

## Page 3

13-00000

invited to tho USsa, but Rur. Ralp dushutile, apokesson for Subject,

refused to comment on the sourco of the invitation.

Based on:.

201-763965 (KIN3),

The following documents, held in

"re not reviewed:

and

wich contain information resentiel to Subjectrs file,

doin appear to have pages missing.

Thc above menorandun was based exclusively on that information contained in

Subjectis vory incomplote 201 filo.

No attenus las made to hastau

mankill locate or consolidate other information concerning

Subject.

5 November 1967

---

## Page 4

13-00000

EX-0165

SizaiT:

Kis, baruin britner

Io Martin üuther KEn Ji., born 15 January 1927 in Atlanta, Georgia,

has been described as the nost prozinent leader of the civil rights novenent

in the üs. he is the President of the Southern Chridtian Leadership Conference,

(scic), and is a recipient of the lobel Peace prize.

2.. In Subject's lany activiüies in the civil rights movenant, he has.

sought and relied upon the advice of various individuals

Cio:

D

Premansh

APPROVE? AB? TEASE

Dato

(43

---

## Page 5

13-00000

3..

Subject net rich

verious leaders of the lualian Communist Paiy and of the Italien Socialisi Pari:

23 Septeaber 1964 in Pone, (Subject was in Roue on thai date as part oi a

toi di lestern Burope, He allegedly distgased with these italian

politicions the demonstrations against segregaiion in the US which yere to

be organized in Italy during the following zorths.

Lo Theoctober 1964 issua oê Ve love, en Italian weedy nagarine

orned by she Italian Gazaunist Parti, (POI), carried an article entitled

Inan lie Negroes isk of the Fresidents wich lie Nove clained Subjest rote

for lis Exclusive pualication, the article concerned the civil rights

question in the us end did soù appear to be directed specifically to a

Gasminist audience, Despite, the date of jas publication the artiele appeared, to

lave been rritten sue sonths before.

5u in article appearing in the rashiaston Post on l Noveaber 1964 süaied

¿nai subject ins planing a visit to the Soriet Union. He reportedly hal been

. =

---

## Page 6

13-00000

invited to the USSR, but Rev. Ralph ABERNATHI, spokesman for Subject,

refused to comment on the source of the invitation.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL:

EX-0165

• StEJ&CT:

KliG, Martin Lither

Capult fan actrement

Leviso:!. V

He do Stauley D.

1o Martin inther KiNG Jro, horn 15 January 1929 in Atlanta, Georgia,

has been described as the most probinent leader of tho civil rights moverent

in the üs. Fe is the Presidert of the Southern Chridtian Leadership Conference,

(SuiC), and is, a recipient of the lobel Peace Prize.

2. in Subject's many activities in the civil rights novemänt, he has

sought and relied upon the advice of various individuals, Including the

following:

A.

Bayard RUSTli-Jenber of the Young Cornunist League from 1936 to

1241, secretary to Subject fron 1256 to 1960, Secretary of the

SCLO in 1262, wlack and organizer of the March on Washinztonin 1965,.

RUSTIN attended the Sixteenth rationel Convention of the CPUSA

in 1957 as a non-Communist observer, and was especially active

in advising Subject on formulating a position on Viet Nan in 1965-66.

B. Clarence JONES-General Counsel to the Ghandi Society for Human

Rignts, and forner member of the Labor Youth Leagued

a Cammunist

front.

# 465901

.. stanley, iavo%-ological donnist end auspocted becret member

of the CPÜSAs

D.

Harry lACiEL-Executive Vice President of the Ghandi society for

WN tan Rights, ber of the rational lagers Guild, a Corunist.

gon to 15 95 45 1978.

Iront.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

AJ FULL TEXT COPY -- DO NOT RELEASE

CONDUCTED ON REGENT

i MADEt 03-260.575

---

## Page 8

13-00000

COM HENRI

TAL

So marry DaLiTONTi-kenbor of tre lour Conunlat Leaguo before

coning into proninenco as an entertainer.

3. iccording to a sourco dio is considered unreliable, Subject met wiüh

various leaders of the Italian Comunist Party and of the Itallan Socialist Party on

Lô Suptember 1964 in Pone. (Subject was in Rone on that dato as part of a

tour of western Eurbpe. He allegedly disugssed with these Italian

politicians the denonstrations against segregation in the US which pere to

be organized in Italy during the following months.

4. TheYOctober 1964 issue of Vie Nove, an Italian weekly magazine

owr.ed by the Italian Connunist Party, (PCI), carried an article entitled

"what ile Negroes isk of the President" which Vie luove clained Subject wrote

for its exclusive publication. The article concerned the civil rights

question i7 the US and did not appear to be directed specifically to a

Connunist audience. Despite, the date of lis publication the article appeared to

hare been written sond months before.

5,' An aruicle appearing in the lashington Post on 4 Noverber 1964 stated

tiãt Subject ras planning a visit to the Soviet Union. He reportedly had been

CONGRENTIAL

MILE

---

## Page 9

13-00000

irvited to the USSR, but Rev. Ralph ADINATill, spoiesman for Subject,

refused to conment on the source of the invitation.

Sased on: .

201-760965

201-275804

(KING) L

(RUSTIN)

Đ53-17372

DB3-8S161

CSCI-316,02051-64

OIRT-6783

The following documents, held in RID/SD, were not reviewed:

TS-188608

IS-188606A

IS-188613

D5B-17872 and DBB-17192, nich contain information essential to Subjectis file,

both appear. to have pages missing.

The above memorandun was based exclusively on that information contained in

Subject's very incomplote 201 filo. No attenut las made to islande

Wak Juttix locate or consolidate other Information concerning

Subject.

Steve Murchison

5 November 1967

CONEDENTAL

---

