# 104-10186-10213

## Page 1

4-00001

104-10186-10213

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

IN TEC

so to is undurban

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DiSSEN

COUNTRY Criba

SUBJECT "DarlO" (an alias)

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSC1-316/004863

4 February 1965

1

CS-311/0012584

Spage 001

8 Julÿ

196

DATE OF

•INFO:

1984

PACE & Washington,

DATE ACQ. JanuarY

1964

FIELD REPORT NO:

THNS 13 UNEVALUATED

INTO

TOM: SOURCE ORADINOS AR DEPINITIVE. AMRAISAL. OF CONTENT. IS TENTATIVZ

SOURCE:A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence.

Sarvice until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following teport is one of a serlos containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

firat checking with this Agency.

1.

"Darlo" is chief of the Inspoction Section of the

Direccion General de Inteligencia (Genoral Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI). He carries a carnet of the Cuban Ministry

of Interior.

2.

"Dario" is a Cuban citizen and was born in approximately

1930.

and 170 pounds, and has a heavy build.

• pounds and a ances tall verges between 160

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identiflable

information on

"Dario."

i RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

5

4

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

REP

NelY

CHOSe E

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

I AIR

INSA

I&N'S

radar to

воіни

1.38KX

TOck

FBI 2

Nora: field distribution indicored by - I".)

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION+REPORT

INH/SA/BOB/Y

HE/5/R

IT ENDA

IX 223÷1

TH/ SA/MOB

WEXMADRI

SO PROJECT (AHHUG!

WHY SA/R

i5-z

WASH BRAL

SSCI-316/00436-65

MI: SA/CI

LOL WAVE

TOrAL WH/SA 8 (1), NE 1 (2), CIA,

RID 1

INGRELEI

8L5:1:5

clima

---

