“"404-10098-10202

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }

8 MAY 373
n 7 4
oe gameenett : Eee oO : iaseutecectateetleeets
MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations -° ee :
SUBJECT _ (t -Media Inquiry to Cuban Exile Journalist in

Miami re Cuban Involvement in Watergate |
Case and Attitudes in Miami Area” ee
: i a He or

1. This memorandua is for your information only;

2. On 7 May 1973 we were advised. by Station WH/Miani that”:

“two employees of a Station WH/Miani proprietary had:told the

tation that one Rene VIERA Gonzalez, a Cuban exile? ournalist

“Who writes for Diario Las Americas and owns the Westchester
_ Mali’ Bookstore In Miami received a call in early May from one

ENU GOTTLIEB who said. he worked for tha Tines in Washington.
(GOTTLIEB is believed to be Sanford GOTILIES, 11102 ‘Brandywine

' St., Kensington, Md. who was formerly an‘employee of the

‘National Committee on Sane Nuclear Policy". -A pretext: call to.
the Washington bureau of the New York Tines verified: that one
"Sandy" Gottlieb was employed there.) GOTTLIEB asked VIERA

-what people in Miami were Saying about the Watergate’ case and

‘what participation the Cubans had in it. He specifically

" asked about the activities of Reinaldo PICO (former 2506

Brigade member), Orlando PIZDRA (former Chief of Cuban Bureau

‘of Investigation in Batista Government), and Rolando MASFRRRER

(former Cuban Senator and self-admitted former Communist).

He also asked if ITT had an office in Miami, whether Joaquin
SANJENIS Perdome (former Chief of @ WH/Miami proprietary who
was amicably terminated in 1372) and Juan A. PAULA (former
WH/Miami proprietary employee dnd former Controller of - é
Revolutionary Democratic Front-FRD-and currently employed by |
an OGC proprietary) were still in the Miami area, He wa's also
interested in Edgardo BUTTARI, a Cuban born in West Tampa,

‘Florida, a former Cuban Congressman and Minister of Commerce

who is reportedly associated with Mr, Charles “Bebe RE30Z0.

According to GOTTLIEB, BUTTARI was appointed as "political
chief in the Republican Party", . eee :

‘ c 7) tb vee



3. GOTTLIE3 apparently has current. information on the
activities of the persons he mentioned; for example, he ~
knew that Juan A. PAULA was involved in the jewelry business ~
(PAULA and Antonio Felix GENOVA Corzo, a WH/Miami proprietary ~~
employee recently purchased a jewelry business) and‘he knew - —
that Reinaldo PICO had resided in Venezuela and had recently
returned to the United States. The phone conversation lasted -
about 45 minutes and GOTTLIEB told VIERA that if he.came to
‘lami they would have lunch together. ae $ fe

. z oS :

4. VIERA does not know GOTTLIEB-but talked to him because :
‘GOTTLIEB said he was recommended by(Ernesto BETANCOURT Who ..< -
-__has resided in the Washington area for more than ten yéars.—
OF G@ETANCOURT. was a former Agency asset and is currently Chief of
[ The conversation was a
initially in English but continued in Spanish. VIERA said he :
provided no information te GOTTLIEB on the basis that he is a pesceorre|
Cuban exile and did not want to get involved in internal U.S. .* 7
‘affairs. Wedo not know why COTTLIEB was interested in Joaquin *
SANJENIS or Juan A. PAULA. ©(Attached are summary biographies
’ -o£ persons of interest to GOTTLIEB.) . : perseresieerta ce
: Ee : ob. : :
5. On 7 May 1973(@larvin L. EVANS) cries Qe
briefed on the. substatice of the report
to Juan A. PAULA, who works for th
HeKERCHER and AVANT)which utilizes
INC) as office spaces cover. Among other duties performed by
. the’ proprietary are the monthly checks sent to the dependents —
.., o£ imprisoned assets which are Signed in true name by PAULA.
ol VANS) Was unaware that PAULA had purchased a new jewelry - ~-".
usiaess in association with Antonio GENOVA; however, he feels -.
that (MHMUTUAL) is protected and conpartmented from the WH/Miami |. J .~.
propristary and he has the utmost confidence in the proprietary’ :--
boing able to field any questions O\GHHUTUAL) commmication with

: ob Ahe proprietary is by unlisted phone, and a post office box. . -_ “:
seni GiniJssia tha (uexences2) and Qvany could possibly be linked =.
oO. ut the trail would end there. . He

feels that either proprietary covld only be linked to the Agency 8
o\by innuendo. (He did say that Howard HUNT was aware of eee

(eUTUAL when he served 2s C/CA/EUR.) QGVANS feels secure as
far as and @icKERCHER and AVANT) are

concerned. | wy . zu

(dlp


[pl

“eer Director of Security

‘be ‘ iia

ob , naar aaa : :
ANS) mentioned that the bona fide law firm occupying ‘

6.

‘the other portion of the NHMUTUAL) offices are the attorneys

for Gobe DEAN)OG (These Jawyerg)ere cleared and witting.) “
One S£ the lawyers told (EVANS) that OEAN will be the “biggest

. canary Sethe of the year”. The common receptionist area is
‘

manned by,QHNUTUAD) employees who also monitor all tele: hon:
calls, incoming and outgoing for the other law firm. (EVANS &
mentioned that there have been numerous calls from the media
and outgoing overseas calls to such places es Japan and Europe,

ol
7. EVANDwilt be traveling to Nassau and returning via
Miami on 10 May 1973. He intends,\to talk with his proprietary

people at that time on other GUBNITUA) business and will also

contact COS, WH/Miami. (The COS has been alerted t® expect
“'@ call from EVANS on 10 May 1973. crore peeerEereeare

Janes EB. Flanzery..

Janes E; Flannery -
Acting Chief ~
Western Hemisphere Div.

Attachments; A-F Biographic. Sumaaries :



GQEAGDENT A”

Rene VIERA Gonzalez

Reporter for Diario Las Anericas; was speaxer for
Journalism in Exile at meeting hald Flagler Thoater, |
Miami June 1957. : a

Ead also been head of Public Relations for Cuban .
National Bank, Date not given. | ata a
eH &



/ in Caracas, Venezuela... In December. 1969 he was deséribed -

“Reinaldo PICO Ramon - formerly AMICE-31 (201-284658)

POA. granted 14 Octoder' 1960 as PM asset.’ Member)

2506 Brigads, captured Bay of Pigs. Member of Prisoners
Commission sent by Castro to Miami toe negotiate release

of prisoners in exchange for mechanical equipment and other
supplies needed by Cuba. Defected and refused to accompany
other menbers of Prisoners Commission on their return to- |..
Cuba in July 1961. POA granted 15 June 1964 for usé as
Ca/Proo asset. SGSNIRLED 3-October 1964 -- OA 4 February -
1866, Amicably terminated 30 June 1568. As of July 1969

by a source as “one does not know where the bluff begins and
ends, what is true and what is lie", Eseries yueniareiciaari?



ATTACHMENT C °
Orlando PIEDRA, :
Grlando Bleno. PIEDRA-NEGUERLA (291-247379). |”
"aka - Orlando Eleno NEGUERLA-PTEDRA |
‘aka - Orlando PIEDRA é caus oa
aka - 0. ROCA ; ca ae

Born. 13 December 1917, Havana, Cuba
Believed to be Cuban citizen currently

Was Chief of Cuban Bureau of Investigation in. Batista Covern-

tent. Told FBI Juné 1959 he was forced to. leave Cuba upon £212
of Batista, Rdportedly head of anti-Castro group in Miami in
Juna 1559, In Sept 59 reported te be friendly with Rolando
HASFERRER Rojas, ‘ex-CGuban senator and publisher. PIEDRA
reportedly furnished with money by Batista. nuit

Buring Batista regime was included with others :
responsible officials considered directly invol terturs
and killing of Cuban citizens, Resided in Fort La dJerdale,
Fla, in February 1960, During Batista regine PIEDRA was in
‘charge of all mattors pertaining to. gamblins, rackets and
contraband, In 1953 in Cuba PIEDRA-was also involved in
‘business of Chinese contraband, Tt Fess



Rolando Artadio, MASFERRER Rojas (201-42669)

Former Cuban’ senator and self-admitted former Commaist.
Quite active during early 00's in‘various anti-Castro :
activities in U.S. paaarierar 4 served four and one-half year
prison sentence received U.S. District Court £for- violation of

_ U.S. neutrality laws. : ae

No indication Headquarters has been in touch with subject
at any time. : : sans

Born 1918 in cuba; typifies worst olements in £03 er: regime :
of Batista. Name connotes ruthlessness, assassinatio: On, tortnre’
and extortion. ae E

Still conside rs hinseif to be a Marxian Socialist

i has been. | ~
virulent critic of U.S. in past. eo faa



Eagar Anthony BUTTARI Puig (D.¥.4.)

aka. - Edgar A. BUTTART (Doctor)
aka ~- Edgardo BUTTARI y Puig (291-276771)
Photo. available ' :

While information in his file does not indicate any- past or
present CIA contact, there is unsourced information in the
‘WH/COS card file which shows that BUTTARI was. in touch with.
Frank Bender (Gerard Drolier} in Miani in the Spring of 1969.
apparently in relation to BUITARI's involvement with the
Revolutionary Deno tic Front (FRD). Curroatly BUETTART-is
involved in many business ventures in South Florida and is ees
repottedly associated with Charles “Bebe'! Rebozo socially and.‘
in business. ui vee

7

Edgardo BUTTARI was born 14 August 1909 {also given 1914) -
at West Tampa, Florida, the son of a Cuban who. fought in the
Cuban’ Independence War. Appointed Cuban Inspector Gsneral
instructor of the Ministry of State in 1933. He tater became
Under Secretary of Labor, In 1938 he returned to Cuba and |: :
Served as Secretary of Commerce until 1940. fe later was appointsd
Minister of the Cuban Foreign Service. Appointed Minister of
Commerce by Batista in 1942, he held that pest until 1944 ©
when he resigned to run for the Hovse'o Representatives, . © a
Habana. He remained in the House of. Representative ‘until 1952.

“BUTTARI arrived in the U.S, in March 1960 to reside in
Miami, Florida. He became’ involved with the Revolutionary

mocratic Front.

During his first term as Minister of Commerce in 1938 he was

responsiblé for the arrest of several American rv: presentatives
of large lard exporters in the U.S. (Swift, Armour, etc.} :
for increasing prices. At the s tine he endeavored to put ...
forward legislation of nationalistic tendencies, warning to ee
"Yankee Inperialism", and seemsd sonewhat unfriendly to the

U.S. He later changed and in 1938 became more anxious to
cooperate with the U.S., apparently having gotten over his
openly anti-American feelings. However, he did not appear to.
be dependable according to Embassy reports. He has been

escribed as astute, clever, intelligent but slippery. He

