# 104-10216-10307

## Page 1

104-10216-10307

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

..:...

?

19134,

ja die

1,96

101-333393

NOv 1964

201-349956

201-250391

20F-252234 201-276795L

PArIS

INFO: MADRID

ALGIT IS SWAVE

207-267755

6l6.

COME, DE/WISA 3

vR;

1.26951

ROUTINE

TO PARI

HiFO

MADR ALGI HAVE

CITE DIE

62462

TYPIC MHAPRON AMWHIP/1 AMLASH/1 YOBITE UNSNAFU/ 19

PEE: PARI 1404 (IN 18538) : -

1. RE REE PARA 3, IN OGI 1963 SOME 300 TO 500 CUBAN MILITARY

..PERSONNEL PLUS LIMITED AMOUNT MILITARY EQUIPMENI TRAVELED TO ALGERIA

DEE IHO OR THREE CUBAN CARGO VESSELS. PURPOSE WAS TO ASSIST ALGERIA

IN WAR WITH MOROCCO. IN JAN 1964 SOME RETURNED CUBA AND ESTIMATE

LAST OF GROUP RETURNED APRIL 1964 ABOARD SOVIET PASSENGER AND CUBAN

VESSELS.

¿8. IN LATE SEFT 1964 RUMOR BEGAN MAKING DIPLOMATIC CIRCUIT HAVANA

THAT CONTINGENT CUBAN TROUPS BAD RECENTLY DEPARTED FOR ALGEBIA MITH

POSSIBLE ULTIMATE DESTINATION CONGO OR VIET NAM, HOS CHECKED TRESE

ALLEGATIONS AND FOUND THAT OILY DAZ CUBAN VESSEL COULD HAVE TAKEN

..THIS CONTINGENT WITHIN TIMP. FRAME OF REPORTS AND IT APPEARS THIS

VESSEL DID NOT TAKE ANY PASSENGERS. CANNOT YET TOTALLY RULE OUT

POSSIBILITY SOME CUBANS MAY HAVE TRAVELED BY SOME CIRCUITIOUS AIR

*ROUTING. SINCE INTRODUCTION EVEN SHALL CONTINGENT TRAINED TROOPS

INTO CONGO WOULD BE CRITICAL, HQS HAS PRIORITY REGUIREMENT CONFIRM

OR DENY ANY CUBAN TROOPS NOW ALGERIA FOR ANY REASON.

AINLASH- i file.

ATING OFFIC

810UP I

EASINE OFFICER

AVTH

ATIAS

toma 18 338 103

6-17

SECRET

+81-815-5589109

1=11d.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISE 2 300

201-25

---

## Page 2

1º4.00000

..::

1j 19.26

SEC

That diet bie No

1.5=

..--

AOUTINEE

INFO

CITE CAR 6ZYEZ

3. IN CONNECTION WITH THE ABOVE, PLS CONSIDER THE FOLLOWING:

A. OSCAR (FERNANDEZ) MEZ CHIEE OF STAFF WESTERN ARMY. HEADED

HELITARY DELEGATION TO ALGERIA FOR I NOV INDEPENDENCE CELEBRATIONS.

BON DID UNSNAFU/19 KHOH THIS SINCE TO OUR KNOWLEDGE DELEGATION

• TRAVELED VIA MADR?

B. WHAT PROMPTED UNSNAFU/19 TELL AMHI: ABOUT TRE DIVISION?

WHAT HAS HORD ACTUALLY USEL IN REFEREINE TO CUBAN INDUFS AND WERE

MABERS MENTIONED? DID SNAFU/19 SAY ANYTHING FURTHER ABOUT CUBAR

MILITARY EFFORTS ALGERIA?

E. IS FERNANDEZ HEL EXPECTED PARIS?

D.

DOES AMLIP KNCH HIM? FERNANDEZ REPORTED PRO-REGIME, CLOSE

TO ERNESTO "CHE* GUEVARA, DIFFICULI TARGET. HOWEVER, ONE SOURCE,

SANDELIO HERKINIO (DIAZ) GARCIA, PERHAPS KNOWN TO AMWHIP, REPORTED

I¡ JUZY 1963 IN MIAMI THAT FERNANDEZ HEL IS A GOOD FRIEND OF CUTE.

EPIGENTO (AMELJETRAS) DELGADO AND PART OF LATTER'S ALLASH-CONNEGIRI

GROUP. CAN ANTHIP COMET ON THIS?

E. IP AMWHIP AND FERNANDEZ MEL KNOW EACH OTHER AND MEET, OR

IF UNSNAPU, 19 OR NARANJO COMMENT ON CUBAN MILITARY ALGERIA, HOS

HOULD LIXE TO KHOW NAMES OF ANY HIGH BANKING CUBAN OFFICERS ASSIGNED

AFTERTAL AT COMMENTS...

NE OFFI

SECRET

5* REFRODUCTICIO BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUANG OFFICE

•S PROHIBITED.

Copt

" 1

---

## Page 3

14-00000

PACE III

Disinia

-SECRET...

C1::0:.99.

Carity

OFFERRED

ROUNNE

10

INFO

CITE DIR 6Z462

ON MILITARY FIGURES OR POSITIONS IN CUBA, RELATIVE IMPORTANCE

OF THE POSITIONS, MORALE OF MILITARY, ET. /HOULD ALSO LIKE TO

RNOW OF ANY COMMENTS IN FÜTURED RECHAT ARRESTS. OF MANY SIAFE

OFFICERS CUBA, BOTH ARMY AND HAVY.

•F. IF A-WHIP KNOHS FERMANDEZ MEL AND LATTER PART AMEIJEIRAS.

GROUP, HOS DOULD MIKE ANY COMMENTS DROPPED RE THIS GROUP AND

IIS ACTIVITIES.

G. NARARJO CONSIDERED BY APLASH/ANHIP AS A GOOD FRIEND.

PLS ASK ANNHIP GET MARANJO TO COMMENT ON CUBAN EXILE GROUPS SUCH

AS MAROZO RAY, MANUEL, ANTINE, ERNEIDO OLIVA, ELOY GUTIERREZ HENOYO,

JUAN L'ANUEL SALVAT (OF STUDENI DIRECTORATE) AND ON FEELINGS OF GOC

CIRCLES ON SUCH GROUPS.

H. ASK AWHIP WHETHER NARANJO SEES AHLASH/1? ANY COMMENTS ON

THIS? WHAT IS AHLASH DOING, THINKING, PLANNING?

I. NARANJO SAYS THE REGIME FALLING APART BUT THAI IL' IS

STICKING WITH THE REGIHE. WHY? ESPECIALLY SINCE THE SITUATIO

IS DETERIORATING. IS THIS LOYALTY TO RAUL CASTRO? WOULD NARANJO

AGI AÑAINST AMLASH/1 IF HE LEARNED OF ANY OF THE LATTER'S ACIIVITIES?

BELLASING ANTICIN

SOORO

CETICER&

SECRBI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE :SSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

AUTMENTICATINE

OFFICER

Copy M.:.

---

## Page 4

PAGE I!

D19659

UNO.

CANE IN CS

FiCHe: DIRICTOR

PITO :

DEBIARTO

ROUTINE

10

INFO

J. ATTEMPT GET ANY CONSENTS NARANJO, FERNANDEZ MEL (IF THERE).

LECHUGA, AND SNAPO/19 MAY MAKE ABOUT ANY PERIME/ PBRUMEN HAPPROGEINT

3.

GREATLY APFRECIATE STATION'S EFYORTS ON ABOVE.".

disis. t0d 83535303

177.599

END OF HESSAGE

WH/SA/BOB/MHAPRON

SW Robert

EH/SA/EO

4.::

WH/SA/INTEL -

_ NT. BItChEnE (In Draft)

WH/SA/S0/151_

Mr. Sanchez (In Draft)

HE/3 Mile

Turin

R5/1/A.

THORNS F

CINC/INT

SECRET

REFRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE a PROHIBITED.

paler B.

206/AH/SA

AOTAINTI

CATING

: Copi ita

---

