# 104-10322-10199

## Page 1

1104-10322-101

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

LUN

OLC 78-1641

12 May 1978

Exarutiva Regiatt1

78-5457/2

Spec. Int.

8 may 78

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

Deputy Director for Administration

Inspector General

General Counsel

Deputy Director for Public Affairs

FROM:

Acting Legislative Counsel

SUBJECT:

House Select Committee on Assassinations

1. On 27 April 1978, I sent you a projection of issues requiring

the development of coordinated positions for consideration and decision

by top management. In response to my request, each of you designated

representatives to a Task Force assembled for this purpose and the Task

Force met on 4 May (Attachment A).

2. Attachment B contains memoranda on sessions with the senior

staff of the Assassinations Committee subsequent to the 4 May Task

Force meeting, covering Committee complaints and our pre-position

bargaining with them on certain key issues, e. go,:

a. Nosenko: Has refused to be video taped;

the Committee staff is pondering this decision..

The "formal" session has been slipped from 31 May

to 21-22 June.

b. The question of whether the claim of

sources and methods can extend to information known

to a defector before he is recruited or defected.

3. I understand there has been concern over the range of access

by Committee staffers to sensitive information. I think you should know

#8

SLOTET

110242

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SEGRET

that pursuant to an exchange of letters between the Chairman and the

Director, coordinated with CIA offices of interest, revised procedures

to allow a selected group of staff researchers access to CIA documents

with limited sanitization to facilitate the Committee's review of the

larger volumes of files involved. Sensitive viable Agency sources,

however, are excised and the staff must show relevancy to the

investigation if there is any question as to making material available.

For example, the Committee's inquiry into the CIA Japan Station was

resisted until the staff disclosed to us that the purpose was former

CIA employee James Wilcott's allegation that Oswald was a CIA agent.

Those staffers given this special access have executed special secrecy

agreements which run to the Director as opposed to the Committee as is the

case with the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence for example.

There also has been concerns expressed that the Committee has been

given greater access than has ever been done before in a Congressional

investigation. Although we are getting into new unchartered waters

as a result of the Jay Epstein book, the Church Committee, for example,

had wide access to the Oswald 201 file and personnel files.

4. Attached is an agenda for the next Task Force meeting. You

may wish to review some of the major issues pending. Positions on

these issues, of course, will be fully coordinated and appropriately

presented to the DDCI/DCI for determinatio;

Ві та

Nuthe

Attachments

Cc: Each Member of HSCA Task Force

STATET

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

TO

1

2

3

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

& UPIDENTIAL

/ SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

Mr. Haviland Smith, O/DDCI

DACI

DATE

INITIALS

IP

8 MAY 1973

5

6

SADACI

Sid A DCI.

-S MAY IS

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRÉCT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

Remarks:

Hav:

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMEMDATION

RETURN

SISMATURE

I thought you might be interested in

the attached.

Lyle Miller

FORMN 237

1-67

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

OLC 7D45

×9208/6121

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

Usa pravious aditions

DATE

IMay 78

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASS

UNCLASSIFIED

ATION TOP AND BOTTOM

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRE

!

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

1

MI. Haviland Smith, O/DDCI

DDCI

& AAY 1303

3

5ED001

5

Send

• 8 MAY 1978 14Em

6

3 MAY

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Hav:

I thought you might be interested in

the attached.

8 MAY 1978

Lyle: Poges--Im

Exocutive Rogistry

-yle Miller

concend an

# 8

Spec Int.

27 Apr 78

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

OLC

7D45

x9208/6121

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM на: 237

Uso previous aditions

1-67

DATE

IMay 78

SECRET

(40)

49 2

EB

---

## Page 5

13-00000

TRANSMITTAL SLIP DE Y

TO:

2y Count

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

REMARKS:

Au Deis mortis

FROM

ROOM NO.

ORM MI

FEB 55*24

BUILDING

REPLACES FORM 36-8

WHICH MAY BE USED.

XTENSIO

(47)

PETE OUT T Specs 8

---

## Page 6

13-00000

4. The attached projection does not deal with the $64. 00 question

of the final Committee report on which drafting will start about October

1978. There we will face the inevitable of attempting to correct

mistakes of fact and perception which are bound to creep into a work

of this magnitude, no matter how objective and professional the drafters

are, and of determining what information is to be placed in the public

domain. We have anticipated this latter problem and have concluded what

I believe is a very strong and, I hope, effective Memorandum of Under-

standing between the Director and the Committee.

5. It is my recommendation that you personally review the

attached paper. Further, that the paper be tabled in a working group

of representatives designated by you and from this office to develop

positions with respect to the various issues raised. Following adoption

within the Agency, time is needed to assure appropriate coordination

with appropriate elements of the Executive Branch. Please provide me

with the name of your task force representative. I would like to have

the task force meet on Thursday, 4 May,

€ 2:00 p.m., in room 6D0120.

di With,

Attachment

SSGRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

OLC 78-1544

26 April 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations - A Projection

1. (S) With less than eight months remaining until its final report to

Congress is due, the HSCA investigations have narrowed to a few key areas

which involve the Agency. Though the Committee mandate covers both

the King and Kennedy Assassinations, the majority of our contact has been

with the Kennedy investigators.

2. (S) The Kennedy Subcommittee is addressing four questions:

A. Who shot the President?

B. Was it a lone assassin or a conspiracy?

C. How did the agencies perform:

(1) prior to the assassination;

(2) protecting the President;

(3) during the subsequent investigations?

•D. Is any new legislation necessary?

3. (S) Initially, the Kennedy Subcommittee had organized into four

functional groups:

A. Cuban-Connection Task Force led by Bill Triplett

B. Oswald Task Force led by Ken Klein

C. Organized Crime Task Force led by John Hornbeck

D. CIA Involvement in the Assassination and Performance During

Subsequent Inquiries Task Force led by Mickey Goldsmith.

Most recent contact between OLC and HISCA staff has involved the Oswald and

CIA Involvement-Performance Task Forces: All groups have had access to

CIA files, principally from Personnel, Security and DDO.

?:.

37305

---

## Page 8

13-00000

4. (S) Following are what now appear to be the possible topics for

public hearings which involve the Agency and issues which may arise

with HSCA.

CUBAN CONNECTION TASK FORCE

This grouphas reviewed post Bay of Pigs material including the

Cuban Counterrevolutionary Handbook, 1964, which details personalities

and operations of Miami-based groups. G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel

and Staff Director, has been to Havana.

(1) (S) Possible Topics for Public Hearings

Results of the Havana visit which may include a Castro

sponsored interview with AM/LASH. This may require a ClA

spokesman to define the CIA - AM/LASH connection.

(b) Operations of anti-Castro Cubans, Miami-based, for

which CIA documents (Cuban Counterrevolutionary Handbook

- 1964) may be necessary.

(c) Former DCI Colby discussions with Claire Booth Luce

regarding the Bayo-Pawley affair.

(d)

The scope and nature of CIA files regarding Marita Lorens-

Castro-Sturgis. This may require ClA spokesman.

(2) (S) Issues:

No major issues at the moment.

OSWALD TASK FORCE

This group has reviewed most of the Oswald file as well as many other "20ls"

referenced therein. Though the Epstein book may drive the majority of the public

hearings toward the Nosenko issue, the group is exploring other issues which may

be aired.

(1) (S) Possible Topics for Public Hearings

(a) Nosenko's knowledge of Oswald and his own credibility.

Nosenko can be expected to be called, possibly colitsyn, too. Not

Deryabin (too dated)•. This may require a CIA spokesman to

attest to the present CIA position on credibility. Others may be

called: Helms, Colby, Angleton, Bagley, Miler, Hart, Epstein

and possibly Len McCoy and Bruce Solie.

2

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

(b) Rameriz Ortiz's knowledge of Oswald's file in Cuban

DGI. Rameriz Ortiz, presently in Leavenworth Prison, wrote

of a file on Oswald in Cuba. LA Division has reviewed the

Rameriz Ortiz book and provided follow-up items to the Committee.

As this is new material, it is likely to be aired and may require

a CIA spokesman•

Rameriz Ortiz has given executive session

testimony already.

(c) Priscilla Johnson McMillan may be called to discuss

her contacts with Oswald in Moscow at which time her CIA "witting

source" affiliation may be exposed. She gave executive session

testimony last week, and staff indicated that they had follow-up

issues as a result but would not share their issues. If the ClA

relationship is presented, Gary Coit (retired, DCD) may be

subpoenaed.

(d) James Wilcott, former CIA finance officer in Tokyo

Station, testified in executive session that Oswald had a

relationship with the CIA. The press picked it up, and the HSCA

has been forced to pursue the issue. HSCA staff have interviewed

former Tokyo Station officers and are about to interview former

Agency employees stationed at the Atsugi U-2 base. Oswald

served at Atsugi in 1958, although at an entirely separate

location from our activity. Though Wilcott may be recalled for

public hearings, the course of the staff interest is not firm

enough to predict. At the maximum we may be called to define

our activities at Atsugi, 1957-60. A CIA spokesman may be

required.

(e) Serendipity may get Garbler/Kovich before the Committee.

Garbler/Kovich may be called to exemplify the fallout from

the Nosenko/Golitsyn issue. The most recent tip-off of this

possibility is that the Committee has asked to interview former

COS and DCOS of Moscow during the Garbler era. The Committee

may provide the forum that both may revel in and, since the HSCA

is chartered to recommend legislation as a result of its efforts,

it may be a possible source of private-bills for them. Messrs.

Colby and Bush may also be called.

(2) (S) Issues:

(a) HSCA has requested Nosenko's 1964, 1967 polygraph

charts.

After reviewing these, they may/may not request to polygraph

Nosenko himself.

What is our position?

(b) If documentary material is requested for Nosenko

hearings, should it be provided? (Transcripts of OS interviews, etc.)

3

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

(c) Should Nosenko's executive session hearing, scheduled

for 31 May, be video taped such that the tape could become the

basis for any future public hearing?

(d) If Nosenko requests counsel, who provides/pays?

(e) Should the Hart report be made available, as it appears

the HISCA is backing into its substance anyway?

ORGANIZED CRIME TASK FORCE

After an initial surge of interest by the HSCA staff in CIA files last year

of Johnny Rosselli, William Maheu, etal, no investigators have followed-up.

The scope and nature of any future hearings are difficult to predict. No issues

are pending.

CIA INVOLVEMENT/PERFORMANCE TASK FORCE

Officially, this group is an adjunct service element to the other groups.

Its activities hop from issue to issue but some areas appear of specific

interest to them.

(1) (S) Possible Topics for Public Hearings

(a) Performance of Mexico City Station in reporting on

Oswald. Anne Goodparture's testimony in executive session may

be reviewed in public session. She may be called to comment

upon the personalities of Win Scott and Station personnel. David

Phillips appeared in executive session, too. Barbara and Herberty

Mannell will be deposed in lieu of a hearing. Any public hearing

, on Mexico City will ultimately hit upon sources and methods (Soviet/

Cuban Ambassy tele-taps and photographic surveilance) • One of the

issues being investigated is the Agency's management of those

operations. A CIA senior spokesman may be needed to testify to

protect sources and methods.

(b) David Christ was questioned about his activities on

22 November 1963. He resembled the "unidentified man" of Dallas.

Our records on his exact activities are vague. As this is a "flashy"

issue, the Committee may press for a public hearing. This would

jeopardize Christ and the others and would be tantamount to

having the U.S. Government admit publicly to an old CIA operation on

Cuban soil at a time when the Administration may be courting Cuba.

(c) E. Howard Hunt may be called to discuss a report of the

assassination which he purportedly wrote while at the Plumbers Unit:

HSCA has requested access to our files on Hunt/Watergate. We have

no known records of any such report,

4

SECRET

---

## Page 11

13-00000

.M921

(2) (S) Issues:

(a) The Agency did not provide any of the previous

investigations (Warren-Church) the depth of access to its files

as we now are to the HSCA.

Nor do we provide the same degree of

access to either the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence or

the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (i.e. DDO

201 files and other sources and methods material).. We must be

prepared to comment upon our relationship with this Committee.

(b) The Agency released to the public through the Warren

Commission Report a cropped version of the Mexico City

"unidentified man" photograph. As this photograph was from

a photographic surveillance operation and as several other

photographs from the same operation have been cropped and

supplied to the Committee, are we prepared to release all

of these other photographs to the public if requested?

5. . (S) The immediate future of the Committee as it involves the

Agency is:

Deryabin interview

Golitsyn interview

Nosenko interview

- 27 April

- 4 May :

- 11 May

Deposition - 19 May

Executive Session Hearing - 31 Ma.

- 25, 26 May

- 30 May

Bruce Solie interview - 9 May

Deposition - 22 May

June and July will see a flourish of executive seesion hearings in preparation

for August recess•

September will see approximately 20 days of public

hearings on King and 20 days on Kennedy.

6. (S) Although the King Subcommittee has not been active with our

files, one memorandum of conversation with Office of Security, May 1965,

indicated "King might possibly be assassinated"

, and Security presumes that

this information was passed to FBI through normal liaison channels. HSCA

has not yet reviewed this file although it is available to them. There

do not appear to be any other preassassination items in the King file.

7. (S) At the conclusion of the HISCA's investigation, we may be left

with material gathered in response to HISCA requests which has not been

completely reviewed by HSCA staff investigators. They are far behind at the

moment.

The Committee has requested access to files on over 368 individuals.

DDO has 245 files ready for review of ihich 105 have been reviewed. Security

has 146 files and two polygraphs ready for review of which 50 files have been

5

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SEGRET

reviewed. Their options may be: to rapidly scan all remaining material

so they can reflect in their final report that they had seen it all; to not finish

their review and remand the material to 30 years storage under our Memorandu

of Understanding; to pass the material to the custody of the House Permanent

Select Committee on Intelligence for use in developing any needed future

legislation, i.e. an intelligence charter. Regardless, I believe we must

prepare all materials for 30 years retention and should be prepared to see

the material remanded to a safe storage out of our custody.. If the material

remains unreviewed by HSCA staff at the conclusion of their investigation,

then the future skeptics may still have a cause celebre. In the final analysis,

it works to both the CIA nad HSCA image to complete the job and I have attempte:

on repeated occasions to call this to G- Robert Blakey's attention-

Rodger Se Gabrielson

Distribution:

1 - OLC Subject

1 - OLC Chron

OL.C:RSG:jms (26 Apr 18).

6

E'S

SECRET

---

