# 104-10023-10100

## Page 1

1104-10023-10100

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

July 9,1965

Memo

ARA/CCiA - MR. STEUeNSON

ARA - Georse LasTeR:

Visit el Cuban Exile VIctor EspINOSA

chen

ListeR agreed to meet Espenose.

Espinosa statement a sin

- Opposed BATISTA, oposes Carolro

Not a member of "March 13" Movement,

bust close I many f it leaders, incheding Cubelas

A tramed ley C1A u. Sousan and Quatenda

sent to Cuba sion to Buy y Piss

Plans to became US ate in stay, Aug 65-

3 Sauly un 1965- Espinia recewed reguest

sam one f his relable Cultan contacto an Europe

taking

that he come gustly, Espinass went

Faces Miami, oltaied fale Cuban

event

to Parise be po presenc

the chow

caine to Paris

for that

purpose.

suing many seetings in France, & Spain.

(where Espina entered illegally) Esperso uns

informed that there ió a plau

overthrow the Casto regime and

---

## Page 2

14-00000

The plot is led ty Cutely and ome of

March 13 movement plus (critere

believes sme mility officers.)

"Hung must move

so muckly because

more and me pople lassing 1 to plot

and this gowing wok of expire.

They me anxions to have some cookdination

on at least insultation with respisible.

americanse they t

me ust enfudent that

they could win

an allout fight against Castro

forces, thinhe mire on tens of taking central

for a few bows phillis Cartop his most

sective moe They must what of onything

the amences

mishit to to help when the

coup, is attumpted. The abosted to

alept the Us Gon't as to what wais

The Cubans right have tened to

Ecil Willans, CIA Madrid, kat

believe him to la

uneliable as Cuban

guil sent Madid some time aso dry

Castia + fooled Williamson. He amonged

pop her to work with Intentend fescu

Comittice - She retired to Madis / plans 1 plot.

go deliven with reliable Americon effical

"Top secunti" mam relenad to HAsira slute

ne reper I plotters waited in Spanfor

Espinosa retuned to NiY, Called

Esposa told ston to "HAl" 4/ C14=

Espinosa believes HAl or Sonene else ivant to

spam

des check stony-

---

