eer

momen

‘/104-40186-10074) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

gonpoldey JON 0d)

: ; : a7 a ay Het

SECRET.
NO FOREIGN DISSE

counteyCuba, c&1-316/00623-65 &
Susect Manuel PINBIRO Losada ‘DATE DISTR, 10 February 1965

NO. PAGES L

REFERENCES, CSCI-316/00698-64
27 August 1964

DATE OF
1964
INFO,
Washington, D. C.
bate aca, January 1965 FIELD REPORT NO.
TSG UNEVALUATED VORATION, SOURCE GAADONGS AEE GEMNITTVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1 TONTATIVE

source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964. y

va
Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressecs take no action on any of
the individuals rentioned in the personakity reports without
fiest checking with this Agency.

The alias of Manuel PINEIRO Losada is “Pertonio." Ag
head of "M" or M Department," another name for the Direccion
General de Intellgenagaa(General Directorate of Intelligence -
DGI), he is referred to as MM-1.

bene

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE Tom | aeay Trave Tare Tas, TX Toce BI
“REP CISCLANT _CINCSO# TENS”
“Mots Fold Siboton Spo by “377

{WHUSA-EOR) 1: WE_5 R 2c LIA Luats SSS DA, Mt.
wit_SA/NOB' LW pictrea |. SSITISE

TLILx 1838
JO PROJECT (AMMUG/1)

WE SLR 1 | ESEsSeeaaEeS ian ERC i CSCI-316/00623-65
mi_SAzCL [S intDaax hl Th
WH NAVE iLL za ii. L cae
AS O)), WE 1 (29, CI 4, RID Y | "a

Torast

