# 104-10116-10118

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10116-10118

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

2 October 1968

SUBJECT: MORIN, Relman aka "Pat"

ALLEGATION:

Relman MORIN is the

author of "Assassination",

a pro-Warren Commission book.

CIA CONNECTION:

Subject was granted a covert security

clearance on 10 September 1951 in order

to be let be a rogene me at 3

He was not used and the clearance was

cancelled 11 January 1952.

SOURCE:

Memo No. 9 dtd

5 June 1968

OS INDICES RESULTS:

Subject's file reflects the clearance as set out above.

He was being

considered for the position of President of the Asia Foundation] 29

A limited investigation conducted in August 1951 revealed the following

correspondent in the Far East, 1940-41; and was interned by the Japanese in

Saigon, 1941-42. Subject was repatriated on the "Gripsholm" in 1942 and from

1942 to 1945 he served as a war correspondent with the Associated Press in

England, North Africa, Italy, India, the Middle East and France. He was

chief of the Associated Press, Paris Bureau, from 1945 to 1947; and chief

of the Washington, D. C. bureau from 1947 to 1949. In 1949 he became General

Executive of the Associated Press at New York City.

Subject is the author of "Circuit of Conquest", published in 1943, which

is the story of his experiences as a war correspondent during World War II.

DETAII,S:

The 1968-69 edition of "Who's Who" lists Subject as the author of the

following additional books: "East Wind Rising", 1960; "Churchill: Portrait

of Greatness", 1965; and co-author of "The Newsman Speaks",. "Southern

Schools: Progress and Problems".

SECRET

GROUP

Excluded tram autematic

downzrading and

declan isn

11d.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

