# 104-10073-10155

## Page 1

1104-10073-101562 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

446 20th. Are. N. E.

St. Petersburg, Ple,

October 5, 1961

Dear Buah:

I finally left Cuba,

fortunate-

ly with no trouble to speak of.

I have been visiting

in sto Pete, after baving spent some time in

Miar

mi getting my bearings among the "active exiles",

and

expect to head Northe in about & week. I plan to spend"

a few days in Fashington and then go on to New Iork.

I rould like very much to keeu in touch with the Cuban:

and to remain as active as possible, within

the linitations of whatever job I cen get.

Although a lot of water has gone over the dan:

te gooke, about which the less said

the beto

I remember vour comments about the fdasibility of

en sirangement slong these lines.

I would therefore like

in encourage fron you any suggestions you may be

able

this respect.

I am naturally very interes

ded in receiving

the epportunity

of discussing the si-

tuationand ma possible contribution with qualified per

sons in Washington. Thet do you think?. So far my only:

contacts

are Senator Snathers, whom I hope to

see here

in St.

Pete on the

and a man named Reskin ho sn-

swered & letter I wrote Annuay Bundy

asking for an ad-

pointment.

Raskin is

on Bundy's statf.

Bush, you may be out of touch dith the Cuben

sroblem,

are not and have any ideas

appreciate hearing from you. I expect to be here

another week

and then drive up in & little VW I bought

In washington I will be

staging at my cousin's,

de Zalde Meyer,

9710 Persimmon Treez Road,) 06,08

hechesca,

Margiand.

In eDg event I will look forward

to seeing you soon. Best

Siresto

de Zaldo, JI.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

3

09691

Bo 4080

---

