# 104-10151-10201

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10151-10201

Nt.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CHA DETERNAL USECULY

Jouraal - Office of Legislative Connsel

Tuesday -7 December 1976

77-001211

Page 2

Dest

6. (Unclassified - NDL) LIAISON In response lo a letter

from Representative Robert W. Edgar (D., Pa.) concerning an

article in The Sunday Bulletin entitled "CIA Disputes Broomall

Wiretap Story, " which contained erioneous information concerning

the Congressman, I called Kathy Kcel, the Congressman's personal

secretary, and told her that a letter had been forwarded by our

General Counsel to the Department of Justice on 3 December 1976

secking their assistance in investigating this matter. She thanked

me for my call and said no written response would be necessary.

15-1%. (Internal Use Orly - BAA) LIAISON Received a call from

Kathy, DDO/British Desk, who said they were in receipt of a message

from Condon Station pertaining to the message that came in this morning

for Richard Moose, Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff, from

Senator Dick Clark (D., Iowa) requesting confirmation of the receipt of

the message and the time. After talking to Moose, I called Kathy and told

her that Moose received the message at 2:00 p.m. and that there would

be no response back to the Senator. She will take care of sending out

the appropriate response.

8. (Unclassified - NDL) LIAISON Reccived a call fiom

Richard Dingman, Representative john B. Conlan's (R., Ariz. )

Administrative Assistant, who wanted to know the procedures

the Congressman should follow in requesting information on himsel

under FOlA. I told him to write to George Cary and gave him the

address and said we would process it from there.

9. (Internal Use Only - GLC) LIAISON Richard Sprague, Chie

Counsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations, called to say that he

would have to again postpone the meeting we had scheduled for today at

10:30 a.1. We compared schedules and decided to meet at 10:30 a.m.

tomorrow. Sprague asked if I would have the letter on destruction of

documents. I told him that I planned to bring along the final draft for him

10 look at. We then discussed setting up a mecting with the Director,

Chairman Chomas Dovning (D., Va.) and Representative Henry Gonzalez

(D)., Texas). He suggested thai the meeting include the Ranking Minority

Member, Samuel I. Dovine (K., Ohio), who he said is a great admires

at Mi. Bush. I told him I would check the Director's calendar and get

back in tonch with him.

21856

---

