104-10111-10005
ae

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FiLe No. "8? DATE

SYNOPSIS

A postal facility (Fost Office Box és)
General Post Office, Fhiladelphia 1, bhsint patra
was established at Philadelphia, Pennoylvania, in

the names D, JEL and ye MILDRED The
Postmaster at’ shland) Pennsylvania, was "alerted to
the fact that if mail should arrive for DANIEL and
or MILDRED it should be forwarded to their
Fost Office Box at Fhiladelphia.

Householder requested to accept mail in
the name of MILDRED .

REPORT NO.

11 Cetober 1960

Snr aaneDEOneeeses



Q. = ©
CASE NO. 43872 11 Octeter 1960

GENERAL:

At Philadelphia, Fennsylvania

On 10 October 1950, Confidential Informant MI-36 was
interviewed on the premises of the General Frost Office at 30th
and Market Streets, He nade arrangements to open a fost office
vox ($h.50 quarterly fee) in the names of DANIEL and or MIIDRED

. The ility to be utilized is identified as: Fost
Office Box Gory neral Post Office, Fhiladelphia 1, Pennsylvania,
With respect to the written application for the facility, no
references were required and no residence or business address was
binder pe the Se
O .

Pe
At Gshiandy ennsylvania ob

On 11 October 1960, GEORGE YOOER), Fostmaster, was inter-
viewed cn the premises of the Post Office at the intersection of
Center and North 7th Streets, This informant was alerted to the
fact that if any mail should arrive for DANIEL and or Gor

» it should be forwarded to Fost Office Box(8 tag
General Fost Office, Thiladelphia 1, Pennsylvania. ™®.(YODER was
very. cooperative and stated that he would take the necessary
action to insure that any items would be forwarded as requested.
le declared t he would have to advise the Assistant Fostmaster,
OSEFH STABIER of the request to make sure of proper handling.

As a matter of emeraillintgrest, the current telephone
directory for the village of (shland) does not contain a listing
in the name and MRS YODER} who déscrobed himself as a
resident here all of his life, brought out that he does not
recall anyone with the surnane ever residing here.
— eee oe

At New York, New York

On 10 October 1960 a householder was requested to
accept mail addressed to MILDR«D °

WPT, Jr.Avet -l-

