104-1008 0084-1 10013}: cor: T 2022 ba UNDER: ane PRESIDENT JOHN F. ReNneDy Beech RECORDS ACT OF 1992 Joe

Se

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY Sais
° “WasHINGToN, D.C. 20505 wats

MEMORANDUM FOR: The flonorable Walt We Rostow :
: : Special Assistant to the President

“ SUBJECT | og -Beheixen and the Four U.S. Navy Deserters
: - —aooo 7 we

i i. The following information on Beheiren was compiled.
_by a representative of this Agency(in Tokyo and comprises
his personal interpretation and Knowledge 1 “based on overt.
and covert information available to our Station in ToRyo,
as of 20 December 1967. Copies of thiss memorandum aré
being furnished to Directar, Naval Investigative Service;
«Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Department of the
Army; Deputy Assistant Secretary for’ Security, Department
?, of State; Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation; Chief,
Counterintelligence Division, Directorate of Special ao
Investigations, The Inspector General, USAF; Commandant ,
. Headquarters United States Marine Corps; and Chief,
Counterintelligence & Security Office (DIACT) , Defense
Intelligence Agency. This report partially answers DIA.
letter S-4845/CI-4 of 29 December 1967 and oral_requests:
of similar nature’from the Department of the Navy.

2. .Summary. On 13 November 1967,-when the leaders
of the Japan "Peace for Vietnam" Committee (Beheiren)
-. /}.dramatically.announced at a press conference in Tokyo
Hl that four. U.S. sailors from the aircraft carrier USS INTREPID
had deserted their ship. because of opposition of the Vietnam
\, cae War, the name Beheiren suddenly assumed a degree of prominence,
. The four sailors' successful flight to Moscow, with Beheiren
aid, where the Soviet propaganda machinery proceeded to
. make capital out of this windfall, has kept Beheiren in the
patties _ public spotlight in succeeding weeks. The incident has
eas : already stimulated a new would-be defection case involving
[- tw ailors a Yokosuka U. Ss. Navy Base, and Beheiren .

: GASSEICATION § Review

10-8

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
tantnint Ow OIG I.



14-00000

“SECRET.

itself has tried to keep. the "desertion mood" alive ace
: organizing a new group to promote and aid the defection of
future U.S. military Sonyeenen in Japan. End of Summary.

.3l Following is information on Beheiren and its involve~
ment in the case of the four, U.S. Navy deserters,

“as Origin and Development of Beheiren ts

April 1965, nominally as a politically inde-
pendent group of intellectuals and’ cultured
persons whose purpose was “to help restore
peace in Vietnam." Actually, it is a loosely
organized group of ex-Japan Communist Party _
(JCP) members, progressive intellectuals, |
_ leftist. cultured persons, and leftwing students -
banded together in the namé of opposition to the..

anti-Americanism and refusal to be dominated or
controlled by the orthodox JCP.

“(@) Hard-Core Secretariat: The real force
behind the organization of Beheiren has been

a brillant Communist named YOSHIKAWA Yuichi,
whose conspiratorial organizational skills have .
been perhaps the most indispensable ingredients
in Beheiren's development. YOSHIKAWA was expelled
from Tokyo University for his role as an All-
Japan Federation of Student Self-Government
Associations (Zengakuren) leader “in the 1960
N.S.-Japan Security Treaty riots. He then went
“into full time JCP mass movement professional
work, becoming the Secretariat officiai in
: charge of international relations for the Japan
Peace Committee. YOSHIKAWA broke with the JCP -

5

between the Sop and the Communist Party of the

‘ ation for Beheiren springs in large measure from
” YOSHIKAWA's personal desire to use his organiza-

tional talents ‘in countering the JCP and its
Japan Peace Committee. YOSHIKAWA, in addition
to being a well qualified English linguist him-
self, years agg surrounded himself with a small
following of similarly qualified lieutenants,
whom he brought along into Beheiren to give him
the necessary depth and experience to run this
new organization. YOSHIKAWA functions as
Beheiren's Secretary General.

(1) Founding: Beheiren was organized in Soest a

Vietnam War by two common denominators; dedicated ee

in late’ 1964, following the rupture in relations -

“Soviet Union (CPSU) in May that year. The inspir-"

secREt  - -



14-00000 |

(3) Respectable Intellectual Front: Following :

fundamental Communist principles for mass move-
ment work, the ex-JCP organizers of Beheiren: <=:
kept themselves ‘in the background and lined up
:|a@ number of prominent Japanese progressive
intellectuals and leftist cultured persons to
“front for Beheiren. The choice of ODA Makoto,
ex-Fulbrighter and popular young novelist, jto -.
be the Chairman was a fortunate move for ot
Beheiren... ODA has. taken to this front work

like a duck to water, It has given him a
chance to give unbridled vent to his own latent"
anti-American feelings, puffed him up to the
extent that he has been dubbed "the emperor"

__ by other Beheiren activists, and given him at
“long last an ideological mission to pursue.
YOSHIKAWA has performed magnificently in etre.
ODA's ego needs and in infusing and indoctrina-

ting ODA so that his words and actions take on’
sufficiently. virulent anti-American overtones.
ODA has sérved another vital function for
Beheiren by “recruiting a sizable number of
fellow intellectuals.to join the ranks of
Beheiren activists;- (See paragraph 4 for a
listing of a number- of those Japanese who have
been identified as oot tL aapaiaien supporters
“or sympathizers.) + i

(4) . Organizational Development: In its two
and one-half year history, Beheiren has not
changed appreciably its organizational format, .
although it has moved its office three times
‘and modified its-name even oftener. Beheiren
is not a "mass organization," because it has
had no sizable- popular backing to the present
“time. Its.hard core, secretariat organization
.is run by: YOSHIKAWA and his lieutenants, Its
public’ image,-intellectual front is led by ODA,
and given body by a score of like-minded intel-
lectual friends of ODA and YOSHIKAWA, who form
+ the loose body of Beheiren's activist leadership.
Under this Beheiren leadership superstructure .

. lies a base of only several hundred Beheiren a
“rank-and-file" supporters, mostly young Japanese |

, Students, Organizationally, Beheiren has no

*, formal membership system, so its base of support-_
ers is fluid and not precisely measurable. ot
However, the base support for Beheiren has

SER.



.

SECRET .

definitely been | on the upswing during 1967, and
made such notable strides during the past summer
that JCP Headquarters officials. finally felt- , .
constrained to note with concern that Beheiren
was .beginning to drain off a growing number of ee
progressive youth who otherwise would have been
absorbed into the JCP's own youth movement.
Beheiren leaders have tried to help this growth
along by setting up a youth section, calling it -
"Young Beheiren." Beheiren's imaginative actions ~
and publicity-conscious programs have been
responsible for its recent growth, and this
period of growth seems to be now on the verge
of really gaining momentum. As a result of its~
role in the case of the four deserting. sailors,
Beheiren has reaped bountiful publicity, has
succeeded in touching-a delicate Japanese’ public,
nerve of sympathy and pacifism, opening a flood-
* gate of support for Beheiren from all over Jayian.
_ When this'case fades from the limelight, it is
* still most likely that a fair percentage of the
current wave of popular support for Beheiren a
Will. solidify into permanent mass backing, -
giving Beheiren, for the first time, a meaning-
ful base to support its future activities,

ree gn AF PT

. : eo: :
(5) Activities and Accomplishments: Beheiren
has engaged in a number of propaganda actions, cies Be
and participated in international anti-Vietnam — i ie
‘War activities. It has tried to cooperate with :
certain front activities in Japan controlled by
the JCP, most notably the Japan Committee to
‘Investigate War Crimes in Vietnam activities,
which culminated in the Tokyo Court of August
. 1967, but has been soundly and rudely rebuffed
“by the JCP, In spite of this, Beheiren has
churned along at its own pace, with a continu- |
ing series of anti-Vietnam War actions, most of
~-them related in some way to the American pacifist ~ {
movement, In this regard, Beheiren has. succeeded j
in.cornering a virtual monopoly on Japanese :
. contacts with U.S. pacifist movements and -
effectually capitalized on this to.promote its
own action program, The case of the’ four
deserting sailors, while an apparent lucky
windfall for Beheiren, only points up the fact
that Beheiren, ‘through past organizational work
and promotional activities, was ready and capable

i ae ;

SECRET



14-00000 ,

-available press reports, with no recorded dissent,

. returning to their Ship of their own volition

>. four made contact with Beheiren leaders. Again,

~~ (3) Beheiren Takes Over: When the four made

~ SECKET

(unique in Japan in this regard) to take the
bali and run“with it. Beheiren ran all the way
and scored its most notable success since it was ~
organized, (Paragraph 5 contains a listing of
Beheiren's more notable activities since its
founding. Paragraph,6 is a partial listing of
foreigners who have been in contact with or
cooperated with Beheiren.) . Ve

The Case ‘of the Four Sailor Deserters and |
Beheiren

(1) How It Started: The consensus of all

indicates that. the four sailors voluntarily left -
their ship, went AWOL, and ended up wallowing
around Tokyo's hippie-land. Precisely what
personal grievances prompted the four to embark
on this misadventure is not known. But, up to
this point, the four could fairly be categorized 2
as misguided youngsters, gone astray in a foreign~
land, and due to get slapped back in line with Ee
traditional Navy justice.when they finally
decided to stop the fun and go back to the ship.
So far, this made their case far from unique.

. - of - .
(2) How It Became an Incident: Instead of
or being apprehended by the Shore Patrol, the

press reports indicate that this ‘was just a
coincidence, that there was no pre-planning by
“the four to contact Beheiren, There is no
available reporting that indicates otherwise.
But, once the Behéiren people made contact, they
recognized. the potential immediately and moved
fast for, the kill, ee

contact with Beheiren, it suddenly became an-
entirely different ballgame, Beheiren had
everything needed te capitalize on this:. veteran
activist leaders who are experienced enough to
recognize the windfall that had come their way;
an apparatus that could provide hiding places

for the four; long standing liaison contacts
with Soviet Embassy officials for use in plan-
ning exit from Japan; solid contacts with

SECRET

a


14-00000

sT

“yeliable American pacifists with whom the-bona

. (4) The Beheiren peers at Work: While
-many of the Small pieces of this puzzle, which

“e fea up the bulk of the  odche

‘SECRET ee

fides of thé four sailors could be checked; oad
money and organization to capitalize on the. aeaaer
propaganda potential (such as preparing a :
moyie film for the initial Beheiren press con- *
ference announcing the desertion, prepared more
likely. than not by Beheiren stalwart KUBO
Keinosuke, an independent film producer) ;' and
English speaking activists capable of sympathiz-—
ing, encouraging, soothing, or agitating the :
four young sailors, so that there Would be no
turning back. : :

would put the whole case in proper detailed
chronological order and eliminate speculation
on minor points, are still missing, the follow- :
ing elements, all part of the Beheiren eae

Na)" Hide-out: when Beheiren got hold of
the four on 26 October, they had to be
hidden out for the approximate two week.
; period until their exit from Japan could
be arranged. This presented Beheiren no | aed
great logistical problem. A number of teas aa
the Beheiren activist leaders have homes = “~~
well suited to harboring fugitives. For

- example, Beheiren activist leader FUKASA!
Mitsusada has a villa hidden away in ae
Chigasaki, which was used on the night of

-, 12 September for a meeting of about 20 top
‘Beheiren leaders, and which would be highly
Suitable for hiding the four deserters, |
Other private dwellings, belonging to
Beheiren. leaders and loyal supporters, are -  ~
‘scattered throughout both the Kanto (Tokyo) ~
and Kansai (Osaka, Kobe, Kyoto) areas.

(b) Beheiren-Soviet Liaison: Beheiren’
Secretary General YOSHIKAWA has maintained
periodic Gontact with Soviet Embassy
officials for years. Beheiren Chairman

ODA has met. Soviet Peace Committee officials
in Moscow. In the case of the four sailors,
- ‘information provided by a reliable sensitive
source has clearly established that both Hl

‘SECRET © a



14-00000

“, SECRET. 7.

. YOSHIKAWA and Beheiren American collaborator 7
Brian Victoria met with Soviet, Embassy Chief | Bees
:Press Attaché Nikolay V. Vasilyevich and .°, +) |, '
‘First Secretary Sergey_D.Anisimov on ee
“30 October. This meeting was urger meeting was urgently wl. fe
requested by the Beheiren side, to discuss :
“an extremely important, extremely delicate |
matter," without adds the case of the four
sailors. : Penna,

(c) Beheiren-U.S. Pacifist Liaison: Beheiren © |

contacted Dartmouth University professor
Ernest P. Young, who flew to Japan on

iz’ .. 8 November, apparently helped Beheiren
“leaders check out the bona fides of the

deserters; and returned to ido u. cht on

11 Novenber,

45). Escape to Moscow: ~ The four deserters. turned
up .in Moscow on 20 November. The press’ has -
speculated, widely and unanimously that the four
-left Japan'on the Soviet passenger ship BAIKAL - ©
-on 11. November, Again, there is no dissenting

4 opinion, overt of covert. The only mystery
"concerning this final phase of the Japanese
portion of this case concerns the mechanics of .

; how the four boarded the BAIKAL and who assisted
in the maneuver, But with the sailing of the

. BAIKAL from Yokohama, Beheiren completed its
-most highly successful and beautifully executed
activity in its two and one-half year history. . .
Not: only did Beheiren smear the United States I ae
Government's image in Japan, gain a vast amount tt
of priceless publicity that will swell the ranks

of its supporters and be invaluable in future
activities, but Beheiren doubtlessly even made

a profit, financially, on this low budget operation-~
‘donations are still pouring into Beheiren head- ~
quarters from all over Japan to “help and bekcas

U.S. deserters."

(6) New Deserters: The successful flight to.
‘Moscow, through the good offices of Beheiren,

has already stimulated one new would-be defection
case in early December, involving two sailors :
from Yokosuka U.S. Navy Base, and prospects are
that.more will follow. Beheiren itself has tried
to keep the "desertion mood".alive by organizing H

se CIC et et er

- SECRET



e
|

anew group ‘te ‘promote and aid defection of ©
_ future U.S. ‘servicemen in Japan, Beheiren
Chairman ODA is now preparing to depart for. oe .
Europe in order to contact and study European
anti-Vietnam War and deserter bad jubiteladet

4, Japanese who have been identified as active “Beheiren
supporters or sympathizers: ae tt
YOSHIKAWA Yuichi Geheir n Secretary General) - former

JCP member.
ODA Makoto (Beheiren Chairman) - popular novelist.
.KAIKO Ken - Akutagawa’ prize winning novelist.

KUBO Keinosuke - film: producer and director.

TSURUMI Shunsuke - Doshisha University professor...

- SSURUMI Kazuko - sister of Shunsuke (their tether. ‘is the
late philosopher, Yusuke);
__FURUYAMA. Yozo_-_high.school teacher, . - x
MUTO Ichiyo = ex-JCP (tried to travel. to. v. 8. to représent
- Beheiren at October-21.demonstrations this year, but. : i
-was denied a visa to_enter the U.S.).  . pereeiei
YAMADA FeadA Atsushi - ex-JCP. apet : :

‘FUKUDA Yoshiyuki --playwr
* MOMINAGA Ichiro = cartoonist:

-, FUKASARI ititeusada = professor...
AWAZU Kiyoshi -.graphic designer, -
Fee Banana — Christian’ leader,
OSHIDA Kiju - film director. :
UNTHARA "Shun - writer.

“BASIIMOTO Mineo - Buddhist “Peiedé, ee
‘HOTTA Yoshie - novelist.. Te ae
GOTO Hiroyuki_- i

= Scientist.

- professor: at Tokyo University.

: KUWABARA - professor at Kyoto University. ae ‘
. MOTO. kazu - assistant professor at Tokyo University.
+ HIDAKA namical : :

: _ ESURTME You writer. * wen
7 CSURUMI. Yoshi: ki - enploye sat International House in =
: Tokyo. oe + te . sieeeececcitacaiaet

: KURODA Hidetoshi . YOSHINO Genzaburo,
hij Aue er “Masao, YOSHIWARA Koichiro,

TERAI Minako, = KOBAYASHI Tomi XAMANISHI Eiichi,
“ANAT Fumihiro, KUNO-Osama_ (Shi) »  -XASUDA’ Takeshi ,.
HATSUMOTO. Tokai

FUKUIONI Setsuo, MIDORIKAWA. Toru, OKAMOTO Taro,
KURIBA ‘ukio, ee Yana, MATSUMOTO Seicho,
ANDO Jimbei, MORITAKI. Ichiro, EI Rokusuke 7

SECRET



14-00000

ots CHIBA Hido,,

* EGAWA Taku, «

ittatsu,

: HARIYU Ichiro,

:. HOSHINO Yasusaburo,
ICHIY Saburo;

= MA Huro,

_- ISHIDA Takeshi,
KANAI Yoshiko,

KASAI Seiichi,

KATAGIRI Yuzuru, |

: KATO Shuichi i ‘

EAZAMA Michitaro,

K TS! Sozo,
no Masao,

KITAKOJI Satoshi,

KOBAYASHI Shoichiro,

KOMATSU Sakyo,

ar

; .t
SECRET -

MUCHAKU Seikyo,
URAMATSU Hiro,

* NISHIO Noboru,,

NOMURA Koichi,*
“OGOSHI Teruo, .
OTSUKOTSY Yoshiko,
SERIZAWA Tae, 4
SHIRAI Shimpei,* :

’ SHINMURA Takeshi,

Hiroshi,
SUGIURA Mitsuo, :~
SUGIYAMA Tatsumaru,
SUZUKI Masahira,
TAKEUCHI Yoshitomo,
WADA Nagahisa,
Munemitsu,
YAMADA Toshio,

. YAMAGUCHI Kosaku,

., Some Beheiren activities and Te eeman te:

SECRET

IZUMI_Taku,
AWKYA_Nor iko,
KATO Yoshiro,

" SHIROYAMA Saburo,
TAKAHASHI Taketomo,

ODAGIRI Hideo,

“OKUMA Minoru,
’ SANO Kenji, -
* SUZUKT Michihiko,

KUBATA Hanya,
SHINOHARA Seiei,

- MARUYAMA Kunio,
TSURUSHIMA Setsurei,

MURO {URO Kenji,
KONAKA Yotaro,

SAKAMOTO Yoshikazu,

SAITO i Beet

Regular oncé-per-month demonstrations at a public
park in Tokyo, consisting of anti-American Speeches
| and followed by. street marches,

An all night TV “teach-in" with Beheiren activist |
. leaders, along with special guest, U.S, pacifist

- Carl Oglesby (Chairman of the Students © for a
Democratic Society. ) mene

A full page advertisement in’ the ‘New York Times
(16 November 1965), followed by another full page
‘ad in the Washington Post (3 April 1967), appeal-
_ing to Americans to stop the war in’ Vietnam,

———___

“A mass meeting in Tokyo in October 1966, a
speakers of which were French pacifists, Jean=Paut
Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir. Te

ee

A "Meet ‘in, Conference of Two Nations for Peace in
Vietnam," held in Tokyo in August 1966, and 5
attended by. Beheiren activists and -seven U.S.
pacifist leaders (including Dave Dellinger),
and observers from France, England, canes the
USSR, Pakistan, and Mongolia,

Nationwide tours of Japan “for lectures and peace :
rallies for such anti-Vietnam war pacifists as



D.

.. 7 Cultural Problems) in anti-Vietnam War -Speech’

“-.on behalf of Behefren.

Loo 8
SECRET

" Professor Howard Zinn and the late. ALL _Muste _
of ‘the United ates, Claude Bourdet of France,

and Thich Nhat Hanh of South Vietnam. “

“A mass meeting in Tokyo in January. 1967, “sponsored
- by Beheiren and featuring U. 4. folk singer and i
pacifist Joan Baez. | hence, Boo

7 _

OA continuing program of direct distribution of
pamphlets to U.S, troops stationed in Japan,
and those coming to Japan on warships, and for
rest or hospitalization from Vietnam,

Participation by two Beheiren activist leaders

(Kyoto University professor KUWARARA Takeo and
. International House staffer TSUR yuki

“taking advantage of a trip to the U.S. to attend
a non-political Japan~America Congress on

rallies and demonstrations at Dartmouth University
; in early May 1967, followed by an unsuccessful
i: attempt to invite cassius Clay to visit be ta

Continuing efforts to bring to Japan fora
nationwide speech tour on behalf of Beheiren,
Soviet poet Yevgeni Yevtushenko, an effort that
has not yet rien bea ened is still
pending.

: Participation in the Pee Jaly ‘1967, “World :
Conference on Vietnam," by sending two Beheiren
activist leaders as delegates. eae.

. Cooperation with the U.S. Quakers, pacifists,
' and Earle Reynolds. in sending the yacht "Phoenix"
with medical aid, first to Haiphong, then on a :
second trip in the Fall of 1967, seeking but :
~.. failing to. find landfall to deliver medical aid
to either North or South Vietnam. :

Attempted, but failed due to inability to obtain.
U.S. visa, to send a Beheiren activist leader

(MUTO Ichiyo) to the U.S. to participate in the
21 October 1967 anti-Vietnam War derionstrations.

loo | : .

SECRET



14-00000 ve ea a fant _ Sea ieesi ;
SECRET

Currently carrying out a fund raising campaign
to send an aid ship to North Vietnam. In this, ©.
_ and other activities, Beheiren leaders ate main-°.
taining ever closer iiaison contact with their _
counterparts abroad, such as the French "Comite". °~
Vietnam National." In an effort to generate
public support for this aid ship fund raising
‘“ campaign, Beheiren succeeded in issuing a public
appeal under the endorsing signatures of Tokyo

» Governor MINOBE Ryokichi and Yokohama, Mayor

. -. ASUKATA Ichio, as well as ine: ‘usual intellectuals
terial Se

Supporting Beheiren,_ :

ae

In October 1967, Beheiren solicited approval to:
: hold anti-Vietnam. War demonstrations in front
of the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo, expecting to be
* denied and then intending to make this denial a
. court test case, Instead, Beheiren was given
this permission, and conducted two orderly and
well-publicized demonstrations in front of the
American Embassy, garnering a larger public turn |
out of participants than in any previous Beheiren—
sponsored demonstration, :

Assisted and abetted the deféction: to the USSR
of four, American sailors from’the U.S. Navy
‘carrier INTREPID. Following this success,
Beheiren's most effective activity to date,
Beheiren leaders are organizing a permanent
.. “underground railway" of Japanese. intellectuals
-?.. Who will volunteer their homes aS possible "way
‘ _Stops" for hiding future U.S. military deserters
that Beheiren now hopes to induce, :

2206. Partial listing of American and other “toreign persons
known to have been in contact with or cooperated | with beaahuebentee

" Americans

i qay> Staugnton Lynd. (ex-Yale professon)
i (2) Norman Mailer (novelist) :
oo

' (3) Dave Dellinger (Editor of Liberation)
(4) Howard Zinn’ (Boston U. professor) |

(5) Donald Keyes (National Committee for. a
ee oe

SECRET


@ David McReynolds Se War Resisters'

.@., oe Mus te. ‘Gade decease)
(By: Karl Meyer rece
-@). Wit1ian Davidson
Go) Bradford Lyttle

11). Charlotte Thurber
(12) (Miss) Quenti tt (Students for a_
Democratic Society)’ : ve

3) Murray Levin (Boston-U. professor)

' (14) Robert Ockene (Veterans and Reservists te
, End the War in Vietnam) -
(15) Carl dglesby (Chairman, Students for a
; Democratic, Society) (until 1966)

: “as Barbara. Deming (Associate editor of
at ‘Tiberationy— eee

:(17) Joan Baez (folk singer)
- (18) Ira Morris @aris expatriate) *

“195 Otto Naisan ee New York City peace : aa
“... activist) - " : : eas

(20) Barbar: a and Earle Reynolds Perereer but
separately active long-time residents in
Japan)

~@) William R, Christensen (an American ere
-‘@rifter, who gave Behefren its first
experience in the summer of 1966 in exploit-
ing for ptopaganda in Japan, and then in
arranging the onward journey of -an American _
who wanted to defect to the USSR)

(22) Brian Victoria (head-shaven pacifist and
-fconverted" Buddhist priest, known to be in’ ~
regular contact with the Soviet Embassy in
le hed : ;

‘

oe : ‘ 12 ephaaees

“SECRET



Pearl
ese Ge

(23). Mx. Willowby (fnu, phonetic, "chief of the
: Quaker Peace Action movement in the u. s. ").

ant “unidentified American of Japanese descent,
from Hawaii, who is caine a student: at

(25) Kosaku Yamaguchi (reportedly ‘born in U. Seg

-.  Présent citizenship status’ unclear--formerly
was a professor at Momoyama University in
Osaka, but has been teaching at the University
of California in Berkeley for some time)
(Other® Foreigners

a Mikhai1: Kotov, USSR Goviet Peace Committee}

ea (2) Claude, urdet, France (French Committee to”
‘°c. Support the Vietnamese People) _

. @) Peggy Durz, Great Britain Campaign for
: ; Nuclear Disarmament)

@> ‘Janes, Endicott, ‘Canada (toria Peace counes1)
(5).: Faiz Ahmed "yaiz, Pakistan
(6) Gabita -Muslepov, USER
@ Mere. Erdenebat Ojon, Wongolia
- @). Konstantin Shugnov, USSR

ey Francis Marcel Kahn, 3 France Conitet Vietnam
at iona,

cr) Th ch Nhat Hanh, South Vietnam

‘Thomas H. Karamessines
Deputy Director for: Plans

_C8CI-316/00079-68

ec: Naval Investigative Service
Department of the Army
Department of, State
* Federal Bureau of Investigation :
Directorate of Special Investigations of’ the Air Force
“Headquarters United States Marine Corps

: Defense ie SEGRE]

Waseda University 2 BS

com Span Pai § Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir, ‘France



“2,2, €SCI~316/00079-68 Tee oe au
7 _DDP/FE/JKO/Dianne Schellin:pjm (4 January 1968)

~ Distribution: : .
- Each Addressee

C/FE

FE/JKO

FE/JKO/JO

c/CL

CIOP/FE

CI/LSN

CI/REA

we

D
OD/T

prrrrrot

el

