# 104-10225-10004

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10225-10004,

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

loren Pillad.1n)

NUMBER

FITNESS REPORT

025658

SECTION A

(1.001)

(81001)

PICCOLO,

3, OPPICIAL POBITION TITLE

SR. OFFICER TRAINEE

8, CHECK IRITYPROS

Xil. I CARRER

S.

GENERAL

Ia. DATE OP

8DEC 35

S.. ORPIDIVYRR OF ASSIONMENY

TOBADE

: 8.80

65-09

SJ

CUDDIT STATION

1195. (WH

10. CHECK TAT FYDE. OR REPORT

:#A-DAO VISIONAL (So Instruclico • Saelion C)

XX

SPECIAL (Spocily)s

12. REPORTINO PERIOD (FROm Po)

PORT DUE IN O.P.

31 October 1964

13 JUly 1964 - 30 Sept. 1964

SECTION 8

1-11288

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Porformanco rongos fiom dially inadaquare la slighely loss than satialactory. A ronim in this corogory roquleas

ositivo ramodial action. The nature el the action could range from counseling, lo furtes freining, lo placing or

probalion, lo roassignmen on la roperation.

Describe action laton or proposad in Socrion C.

A - A9991719

Porformonce moons all razáronanse, I ls antiraly sorlolocrory ond la charoctorisad nailhor by deficiancy noe

arcollanco.

P - Proficien

• Porloimanco lo moro than antidlocrony. Desirad rosulle ora balng produced in a proficions nonnor.

Parlormance: la choracronicos by arcoppional proliciancy.

0 • Quaranding

aftermando 1

ancasional in rolation to razulramonte of the work and in comparicon 10 tha parlormenco of

thors doing similar mort so ta monront ssacial recogniton

SPECIFIC DUTIES

Lise up to dia of she mos importone apocifie durias portonad during the raring:perlad. Insore roting lomon which basr describas tha

manor in which employão paitorms EACH soncitie duty.

Consider ONLY aflocrluendss in portormance at ther duty.

'inti nupornizony responsibilitos MUST bo rolas on shair abiliry to suporviso

(indicaro numbor of ampisyano eupervisol).

SPECIPIC DUTY NO:"

participated In the debriellig of a Cuban Intolligence Service

defector in the Headquarters area

S

TRACIPIC DUTY MO. 8

ilandled, debriefed, and participated in the training (including

s/I, OHVL, and W/T

medius sprel) of a nowly rocruited Cuban agent-

this duty performed during as beess TDY in Brussels, Belgium.

SPECIFIE DUTINO.8

• ТЕЯ

SPECIPIC DUTY NO. O

ORR CIPIE DUTY MO. O

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IM CURRENT POSITION

son too.

1ato

apartie: dubrad, 8808-08880198.81

lie nico 1i0i012109) dogalone: B000d00 to

•A NO 1059

50" 43

pooreron

seeiro un bedo.

nol al

S

sorrod

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

fille. 8=1

SECTIONC

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indi good 'ange potato la impro

moted in curen positionance ne lo proom mendorons for training

In propor persportino thate relation ship "r

mont of mord portermanco.

Commont

on foreigo languago comporanco

required los current

Amplily a explain earings gluon in Saction 8 lo provido bese

boris for doree

applicable.

mining lupuro parsonnol uction.

Mune At to mone of managerial or super or duriao must be de crited, "

ir. Piccolo.

WiS

assigned to WI/SA/Cl fron

September

1962 to

ember 1933, was reassigned to the Branch on

13 July 1961 after completiagithe sir months

Juntor Officer Trainee

training

course.

Having had previors

experience in Cuban operations, Ir. Piccolo

was immediately assigned the duty of assisting in the debriefing of

a Cuban Intelligence Service defector.

dr. Piccolo performed this Thy

a very capable fashion and his efforts significantly increased the

flow and quality of information

fron •the dufector

Also diring this period

Mr. Piccolo was sent TDY to Brussels,

Belgium, to handla, debrief, and participate In the training of a very

Important--but difficult to handle---newly recruited Cubin agent.

Inasnuch as this agent was

expecting to return to Cuba soon, ur. Piccolo

was responsible for

"wrapping up'

in tho flold (with Headquarter's

direction) all the necessary elements inclutong radio communications,

S/Y, and. concealment devices to dispatch the agent to Cuba.

exceedingly difficult assignment Mr. Piccolo parformed woll, displaying

considerablo rosourcofulness and Initiative.

Mr. Piccolo's fluoncy in Spanish makes him a particularly.*

Li.

valuable officer for NI/SA/CI operations.

Ho is & concientious,

dependablo, intelligent, and well-oducatod officor who gets along

all with his follow employees:

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

SIONATURE OP EMPLOYEE

BY SUPERVISOR

TO THIS REPORT

HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO

K, OIVE EXPLANATION

DATE

23087 64

2.

MONTHS

UNDER MY

THE HAS DUEN

IRVISION

2

DATE

23 C0elber1864

3.

COMMENTI OF REVIROIMO OPPICIAL

OPPICTAL TITLE OR SUPERVISOR

COPS, HA/SA/CI

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

m. Piest is a cincible apposit fine it a primering future

I his hoot in si pustional, antiation

Dача.

26 × 64

C/MI/SA/CI

SECRET

HaROld d.

---

