‘Vfoa-tos'10-10103] 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 | (4,

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

: UNCLASSIFIED | | CONFIDENTiAL | | SECRET
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP
: [ro] _NaMeaND ADDRESS «eave | wwrriacs |

Remarke:

John -

Since Shep. is on leave, I am sending
you th&¥ FBI docs for 3rd agency
coordination. Please handle in same

manner. as. before.

ae
Steve’. a

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE No

Steve Hunt, Review Staff
UNCLASSIFIED

FOR NO. 9.37 Use previous editions



13,Q0000,

= feck SIv/nt

#S I!

Clee feed bre 7 90tu CéCurnice-t
fe & Cheareece fe as, IC % ISC

fo : “adte ALE 7 levee er. ae

ict

a tee Wize xy Met? Ao Jbehe Ze 2c eto (
7 f Here singi ae 2. 2 flea. hi.
Ca CAniensn) Cereal Qk eau reece
Mite fan Aor - COLL heure ae AGpt oY pe lee

Kin age Wbhi Lett L yen ou fer Atak

de Qa
= VEE :
(ably App]

KYCS(,


BAC, Mom, (109-4715 : ~ . 8/7/64
"REC 123 ve :

e ona
Directer, FB (105-7667) — ap “2 Reson

: - 7 :
ROLANGO L. CUBELA ¥ SEL oo ;

IS — CUSA 7 ; fire

ice 2/23/64, saan ‘ 2

With reference to information set ferth on page tre,
paragraph one, possibility exists that the Blleged plan to hill
Castro hes seae ccnrecticn with the plan presently under
Pana team by your cffice under the caption of “Plans of
Cuban Exiles to 4scessinate Selected Cuban Government Leaders,"
your file Tossoss.,

Keep-Dureeu currently advised of any additional -
pertinent infornetios rece: ead coscernivng subject's activities
“and his connectien vith picn to ussessinete Castro.
“Nw t a it . i v
VEN: gci C4, : co '
(3) ai

1 + 105-131629 (Plass of Exiles to Assassinate Cuban Leaders)

KOTE: Subject is Cuban Government official who has indicated
Gosiry to defect. CIA apparently made contact with hin in
Europe thru Czban exile in Ney Yerk who is long-time friend of
Miami.infornant. Hiendi informant was visited by the Cubzn exile
who confided thet he kad been acting es centect man betveen
- CIA and subject. According to Cuban exile, subject conplained
we to him tliat CIA refuses to furnish hin vith certain equirzent
with which he could tcke some effective ection in Cuba and tha
CIA furnishes hin vith bulky urserviceble equipment rather thes
compact equipment with which he could possibly aun A inrekh Oe
According to Cuban exile there is sone Beers
discussion, éetzils of which he did not know, in which subject
would figure. CIA allegedly vas in favor of ‘plen, hevever,
Jolson ———At torney General vould have no part of it and it was shelved.

+ Belmont :
reo rae us

SEE CONTINUANCE OF NOTE PAGE TWO

TAAILEO 26
Pa. va

—

