‘"404-10510-10123) i" [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

= Votruary 16, 1965

Mr. John D. Fitch, Inatructor

Grete Trcdning

Lintecy Hopi:ing Education Conter

2410 Hei. 2nd Avenue 6 %

Vial, Florida ‘

Ros/_ Paul Ay Hornandoz_

1620 Ned. 4th Streot,
Miazl, Florida

Dear Hr. Fitch :
last eroding cheot rogarding

‘Thie ts in roply to your comionta on tho
the above captioned individual. I approciate your passing along those

ecccentee
é Pe YernandesJeono An to ace me today and foola that he would 1tke to
‘cntiaue ca in the mochsnical drafting o9 well aa in. tho basic prolini~

>. & :
nary work which he has beea.taking in drasing. There are como things
Whiea I would like to pass

along to you of witieh you may not bo avares

Up vattl a yoar ogo,(tir. Hernando) vasa davero optleptie and had may
At that tite, ho had a crantal ozeration which hea helped hia
Consiterstly. Kore recently in tho last afzht contha, ho atates that he:
hua be@ 11 cuizurea, one of witch was in your cless, Tuls 4o liable to -
: harzen oa occaaten, but fot very froqrentlys an4, of courso, if the cloaca
ines St end you aro avare of 4t, thore 4s no reugon to be dicturbed by ite
: -  Mefo.cericua fo probably the fact that he 1s undor godicaticn -— barbitu«
Fétea of one Xind or another — under preeeripticn of a doctor to prevent
and thie tenda to make hia oporate olowly and,
Mowover, he statea that ho has novor fallon

ecizres.

ic fron huvins actoures,
of course, to bo drowcy,
asleep in tho class.

Previoss to t 4a, he had takon ono year of electrical ongincoring in
Hayora. io to vory cericus about learning mach‘ne design ond is intercated
in thts area. Io stateo that ho has nevor copied a ofngle draving and haa
dons everything on his own. I algo queatioxea hin aa to whether ho untor=
etcot your lectures and what you put on the blaczboard, an! ho ctctes that
ho écea tut that ho works slowly. I thought that if ho could ap.ly core

Pouseee . + tite, that ho probably would bo able to keop up caster boing ono who works
: elewly ond drafting boing a course baacd primarily on the amount of tise
pinnae applied. Mo gaid that he thought that he could come in about 15 minutes
} i early a<4 do a littlo work before the class etarted, but that he eculd not
: work at Loue for lack ef inatrumenta and that the room wos dlosed to hia

except for thia 15 minute periods

ain


ae 7
Scteateeee 7

ae rd :
hee Fiich :

Oia Fobruary 16, 1905 .

ry Paso 2 "

i‘ H 7

\

I acpreciate your suzsoction abcut archituctural drafting. I fool tht 1£
tp KA Mich is S ys.dled, that he will not probibly do any bottor thore than
a cf ho would in yout clata. Tho t-cte givea at tho Uslvorsity of tinct, watch

: +, waco given both ta tniMioh and dn S,actoh, inlicatad that tir, Ler-vestoz hed,
. aptitude for eeckanical or architectural drafting, alvortiolng layo.t wort,
pattora raking, destin! cy etching, ongr.ving and various bench end erat
Worl. Alsoy.an tue. isvised Dota. cxcnination he scorod a rating of 93 vhich
da cverazo to ‘elisntly gud-avoragee: It is folt that to ability ond scills
ero hold back conaivuably by his dtoavility and that othorwise, ho would

bo porhapa above average.
If it 4a noces-arz to drop,hta fron tho elas, of aourcs, this 12 soacthing

which dg up ta you, but wo think that he chould ba given evory opyortunity
tonaidoring his Inturdat in tho work and hic trying to make g go at thise

Thank you for any courtesy extended this nattor.

Sincorely yours,

Vocational Rehabilitation

GDSceab 7 « : soe ”
eos Mra. Maria Svang ‘ . nee
Dre As tances : :

Mr. Garvin “illor

P Gordon D. Suith, Counselor

