TWod-100%4-t0085) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

SECRET
MHFNO: 93-4732005 SENSIND: PAGE: x

yee SECRET FRP: pg pp pte

STAFF

ACTION: LA/CCGRR (056) INFO: C/ORMS, LA/CCG, LA/MCGRR, LA/MCGSGH,
LADORECORD, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, C/LA, DC/LA (3/W)

93 4732005 ASR PAGE 001 IN 4732005
TOR: 030148Z DEC 93 43599

S ECR ET 022047Z DEC 93 STAFF

CITE) 43599

TO: DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT LA/CCGRR INFO LA/CCG, LA/MCGRR, LA/MCGSGH
SLUGS: WNINTEL INTEL SWANLACE REAM SWCONTROL SWRACK
SUBJECT: CUBA TIDBITS FROM LATE NOVEMBER SWRACK
REF: {| _—*(43580 93 4718127
TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUESTED: NONE. FYI.

2.  SWRACK TRANSCRIPTS OF 26-27 NOV 93 CONTAINED
CONVERSATIONS BETWEEN l

q | DURING THIS CONVERSATION, |STATED THAT
CUBAN PRESIDENT FIDEL ((CASTRO)) RUZ WAS UNHAPPY WITH THE
PROSPECT OF CUBAN ELECTIONS THAT ARE TO BE HELD IN HAVANA IN DEC
1993. SAID THAT ALTHOUGH ELECTIONS WERE
ALREADY HELD IN 1993, THEY ARE GOING TO BE REPEATED AND THERE IS
A POSSIBILITY THAT CASTRO WILL LOSE.

3. IN MID-MAY 1993,
[ |TRAVELED
TO CUBA ON AN UNOFFICIAL VISIT. AT THAT TIME THE THR RE
WINED AND DINED BY FIDEL CASTRO. IT IS APPARENT Pron ice
CONVERSATION WITH THAT HE IS A TRUSTED FRIEND OF THE
CUBANS.

4. ON 27 NOV CUBAN OFFICIAL SPOKE WITH
ANOTHER CUBAN OFFICIAL POSTED IN . ABOUT
*THE<KENNEDY ASSASSINATION. >| CLAIMED THAT BRIGADIER GENERAL
FABIAN ((ESCALANTE)) FONT OF THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR WAS
HANDLING THE MATTER AND THAT HE HAD INFORMATION THAT COULD

*POSITIVELY IDENTIFY THE<KENNEDY>ASSASSINS.
5. FILE: SWRACK. DECL OADR DRV HUM LIA 1-87.

SECRET


13-00900.

MHFN

END OF MESSAGE

93-4732005

SECRET

SECRET

SECRET

