# 104-10070-10181

## Page 1

104-10070-10181

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET 18002I MAY 12 CITE NEXICO CITY 19868 arE 613072

DIRECTOR INFO WA/MIANI

RYBAT PLANABYSS

S.A. BOCK, BNDD, CAME TO STATION OFFICES AND REQUESTED

INFO ON "INTELLIGENCE TYPE INFORMANT" WHICH BNDD REGION 15

CONSIDERINO FOR EMPLOYIENT. THIS PERSON RECOMMENDED TO REGION 1S P

* FROM ONDD REGIONS. HEATH OF REGION 5 TALKED WITH BARBER OF

REGION 15 CONCERNING SUBJECT..

2. ACCORDING IO S.A, BOCK, SUBJECT'S NAME IS BERNARDO DE

TORRES, ABOUT 4D-45 YEARS OF AGE, BORN HAVANA, CUBA. BNDD.!

NUMBER SG 1-2-0035 (THIS INDICATES DETAILED BIOGRAPHIC INFO AVATLE

ABLE MIAMI OR WASHINGTON.?

3. SUBJECT GAVE TWO CARDS TO BNDU REP; ONE WHICH LISTS HIM

AS "SUPERVISOR DE VENTAS PARA CENTRO Y SUR AMERICA" FOR MILITARY

ARMAMENT CORPORATION, 1953 S.W.. 27TH AVENUE, MIAMI, FLORIDA,

us TELEFONOS: 444-61713 448. 1250. SECOND CARD WITH SANE TITLE, ADDRESS

AND TELEPHONE NUMBERS FROM "DEFENSE SISTEM INTERNATIQNAL." - WROTE

HIS HUME ADDRESS AS 2700 5.W. 28RD. APP 402, TELEPHONE: 448-1250.

MIAMI, FLORIDA.

4.:. SUDJECT TOLD S.A... BOCK WE MEMBER OF "BAY OF PIGS"

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIRTED

DATE 91/98 BY 5468-SL9/pede

JFK

SECRET

ON

REVIEWED 8Y FBUJFE TASK FORCE

9-6-98201

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENTAL

# 07569

---

## Page 2

14-0,0000

CADLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

Anunrr.co/t

IBBURD

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

"AGROUP,

(When Filled In).

1.02114- 64

114499644144

REPRODUGTION OF THIS COPY PROHIDITEO

ROUTINO AND:O.2 INITIALS. SEEN 0Y

5

7

BLOTTIO

3

ACTiONUNIT

FILE, VR

ACTION NO

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 19869 SECRET

GROUP. WAS CAPTURED AND RANSOMED BACK TO UNITED STATES. INTIMATED

HE IN CONTACE WITH BKTRUST.

50 SUBJECT SAID ME COMES TO MEXICO ON AVERAGE OF ONCE

EACH MONTH TO SELL ARMS AND AUDIO EQUIPMENT. SUA BOCK SAU

BROCHURES WHICH INCLUDE AUTOMATIC AND SEMI-AUTOMATIC WEAPONS.

SILENCERS, NIGHT VISION DEVICES. SUBJECT STATED HE HAD JUST

MET WITH GOVERNOR STATE OF GUERRERO REGARDING ARMS DEAL. ALSO

SHOWED S.A. BOCK CREDENTIAL FROM GOVERNOR STATE OF MORELIA,

LISTING HIM AS "CONFIDENTIAL AGENT.." ALSO CLAIMS TO HAVE CONTACI.

WITH CERTAIN HIGH GOM OFFICIALS INCLUDING MIN/DEF AND MIN/EDUCA -

TION.. STATED HE ALSO WORKING ON SALE OF. "SWIFI" (PATROL TYPE)

CRAFT TO GOM.

6.

REASON FOR APPROACH TO BNDD MEXICO, IS THAT SUBJECT CLAINS

TO HAVE INFO ON HIGH PLACED GOM OFFICIALS INVOLVED IN NARCOTICS

TRAFFIC AND PROTECTION. HAS ALHEADY CITED GOVERNOR STATE OF

SEÑALOA AS ONE SUCH INDIVIDUAL: SUBJECT SAID HE WILLING TO WORK

FOR BNDD ON FIXED SALAKY BASIS.

STATION HAS TRACES: MÉXICO CITY 2038 (NOT AVAILABLE? AND

DIRECTOR 60225. IT EVIDENT FROM LATTER THAT

REQUESTED

INFO ON SUBJECT, BUT REASON NOT: KNOWN.

LATTER HAS BERNARDO DE

SECRET

22

BLATA

---

## Page 3

14÷00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMIRATION

PASION UNIT MÓTIP.RO

ADVANCE CONT

IRDUID

BLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MSSENGE

TICIAL ECPIES

SOGGEW

o:3019-32803021

(When Fillod la)

GEFRODUCTICH OF THIE CODY PAONIDITÃO

COUTINO AND CO INITIALECERS DY

DIODID DI

ACTION UNIT

FILE, VR

ACTIONNO

PAGE 3 MEXICO CITY 19869 SECRET

TORRES IDENTICAL WIIN BERNARDO GONZALEZ DE TORRES <201-

294213) DPOB: 26 MARCH 1934, HAVANA, CUBA. THIS CONFIRMS HE

MEMBER OF "CUDAN TASK FORCE," CAPTURED DURING APRIL 1961 INVASION

AND RELEASED DECEMBER 1962 IN PRISONER EXCHANGE. DIRECTOR 60225

STATES ADDITIONAL TRACES TO BE FORWARDED ON DE TORRES.

• NO

RECORD OF HAVING RECEIVED ADDITIONAL TRACES.

8. AFTER RECEIVING REQUEST FROM S.A. BOCK WE STATED WE

WOULD REQUEST TRACES FROM HEADQUARTERS AND WH/MIAMI. WE HAVE

NOT GIVEN UNDD INFO FROM STATION TRACES. REQUEST UPDATED TRACES

•FROM ADDEE'S INCLUDING WHAT CAN UE GIVEN TO UNDO FROM PARA 7 REFS

AND ADDEE TRACE RESULIS, INCLUDING "CREDIBILITY."

9. IT APPEARS TO US THAT IF SUBJECT'S STORY ME ARMAMENT

SALES IS TRUE THIS WOULD BE OF INTEREST TO BARUST IN ADDITION

TO INTENDED BNUD UTILIZATION ON GOM NARCOTICS PROTECTION ANGLE.

10. FILE:

201-2942138

200-11-1113 - GP-1

SECRET

---

