# 104-10187-10103

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10187-10103

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1S : serober 1881

MEMORANDUM

MEAN. DEFECTO

24

1. The bricting was hold la a small lucurlous

goverament contereuce room on the afteroust as Triday 14, 06,0.8,24.

s' October 1964, lastlag aöout 2 1/2 hours.

attanded lur the Guate-

malanE.

TWO SIA OffKERS WERE PRESENT

SENIOR CIA OFFICER

sit the rejuest of the tape toy!

prefaced the operätlural brlading wilh a balel description

of bor the Us: In alliyeuce community operates, a the

role of ClI, al tha seed for compartmesistion and serarity,

cậutlong phich will ansure that tua lalormation me provide

un tha lat oparatu we uncorase ao comparimonier

within the Guutemalan governmont (and, in faci, discaases

by the Gustemalan poverazan excluelvaly wiu our re- 24

3.

Followdug the introduetary remarks outlined

above, I'briated the froup on the DGi atrueture, the NGI

operational techniques, and spaclileplly on DGI alns and

operations la Guatemalall The

lent clase attention

taroughoat tho briellag an examini the exhilts alasely,

includlog the DCl inteligence regulramonts sop Quatenuia) |/

and the

A Astor the Loregolna expeation, I explained

our aims in ealotting to learnaun me

2ed1:4233805%

Mate, In lus canaaition! anded lur close couperation

and courilnatles of actirisies, proming that to shall

do our sutmast and maitug reference to all' traval lists

aud waleis list.

Hey invi.

10/1

---

## Page 2

14-00000

=3-

1.

D Toe edlocliranada al blo dun uctlons agalast

guerrillao lä(Gueterain and his delor italive

Recugullion al the liportance or the Information

curaried in los br baddry and of iti expiloitation;

1. Retarenço to the ?

case of the

(Quatemala

.11

"decoptince al security restrlotions and hts

106

%. la replylis to tha ramaurta. al

sadd thes mo approciate lso cooperation, di Cratemala.)n th

as and that me shall do mist latarasieù in lho eplollatto

of the possibilitles la tha prevent caso, I added that this mattor

at usias intra ajalnal Ours is a valicy maitar on inich i vas

nor competest to caramant til that the decLalass saco by the

Untted states. Borasaradat ang based un carail study of

dstalled informalion lastuding lolas madlas an Sortet Latgations

and espabilitles.

"8.

29

1s the concingins as lao crootino,!

aBsod-lor a copy or tie Dus jegainsaint (which be alraady

hid geno over alanely) and doess the copy vila bum to study

fartsos..

---

## Page 3

14-00000

with refinence to e

He case, because

al the deralopments, ino piras la

drietly the status dl the DALTO rigand tha pussisllty..

it the do treated tolato asie Tolute da in

coasta, the

Zand is

goreranient taia do retion unless, rajorstad "

06 LET as e, polo niel not take to

3- Tae

masco a raiser

•Impasadonad spirca in saich se covers the fullurtia puists:

a His own losis espertessa la tie OAS; la Quas

and 1a Cantial Amarios;

Lile early warninga abil Casiro nich

wara diarogardad;

e The astunt to nbica @alendla)ias lived e

to lta obligadions la lia Jha; to salca 1$ Da8

coopera! ed li efforta a, siest Castro; and lo

• Falch ll has louded toward V. a leaderablo;

¿'The sallure of lee F.Si do taka abaressire

sellon ryalns! Cabs sad the road for lakles 8

sand llse, Incladin the use al force la support of

multary sitivity by the trea Cubans and tse atbor

American countries;

Ella appreciation Mal-tia Soriet mili sat se

Elling to risi a nuclear sir over Cula;

1 Condemnation of Merleo for her deallas: wits

Ouba, far iatiure to soldo by des ablleathasa la

ta VAS, and lor persuitis the Castroltas to

averate out al biasico agrinst other Amerlean

countrlos;

8o Tha neal los action spalast sexico;

SEGRET

08

14/N)

---

