# 104-10186-10163

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10163

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HINFORMATIONAREPORT.

HINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TElA TUBIOTIA CONCAILA IPOTMLALLOS ARACLiDA UNA HALORAI DAfARES Ol lDe taliEd PiALCA MiLhIa lDA MeRsIOR of the DeplORASA LAMe ILis

1L USO. BETA T9S ADA TOA IDO CrAnEMINIOR Or reTeLALIDA O MhICA la das manDir to as

Minutiorona paraca la prabibIraR DE lis: .

SECRET

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

• SUBJECT "'Zuralda" (an alzas)

REPORT NO.

CSC1-316/01

85

DATE DISTR

18 March 1965

NO, PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CS-312/00115-64

(Page 2)

8 July 1964

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

MACE & Mashington, D.C.

DATE ACQ. March 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DÉFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCES

1 lormer Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Connents

-e tollowing report is one of a sertes containing personalit

information provided

information from the records of this Ageucy.

o the Poconde oc

y the source and includes supplementa

I' is requested that the addressees take no action un any of

*he individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

firdt checking with

this Agency.

1.

"Zoraida" is an office clerk for Manuel PINEIRO in the

mair headquarters

of the Direccion General de. Inteligencis

Gèreral Directorate of Intellicence - DGI)

2.

"Zoraida" was born between 1910 and 1945, is five feet

six or seven inches tall, weighs

and has a

fat busid.

face; and a short, thick neck.

Headquar ters Connent

The records of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable

information or

"Zoraida."

4

5

4

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

I MSA

STATE

1 DIA

I ARMY

REP CINCLAT

(Nola: finto distribution indicoted by "#".)

NAVY

T.X486X X

1 OCR

T7BI 2

INFORMATION REPORTIE

CINFORMATION REPORT

MILIC/RR

ми і алоя

HELER

15-7

_CLiLLA

ICI'R&A

OFICINDIO

3 LEABRITISTU JI

118 2518

SO PROJECTIANMLG/1!

©SC1-316/01215-65

TOTALO MI/E 8 i1),

WE 1 (i), CI 4, RID 1

4IAI80N

COOFDIMATING PELIASINS

BS: LD: =85

V/BR

---

