{04-10710-10476} [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SENCRUNCTA FOR: Chet, WIS

fox

StRgES?

: : BARKER, Rermaust
‘ : (2MWB1LE9)

Le The Seblect, an operational asewth of both Pave station |
and GUTS, 1a corvently in the Vashlactam, D.5_ aro at tnd
Sian af iit, iguerd Att, in an effort to tesolve chile
p atatns. ile xa interviewed vy a represeniativa of
39 om 1S duly LN] at the Sherehan ifetel to devslop an
<iishle iechgrrnd. lofmeuntion consemming. ie lesa of ediicane
ship ant preavio stapa taken te restore tte =

2% BARKER wae bern 17 Marah 1917 a% Havana, Cuba of 8 -
veesora tS» father amd s Odben wothere Wis birth wan vecordud |
Tele Uxtasey ari be wus recogmised as having aequired Te3°
main by birth through the eitiemsbia of kis fathers te

oied, Not On & UeSe omusport, bab om an identity cord poveliialas .
vie CaS, chbisenthine Duping World tar Tl, he ented the Sede

any Air dorpe, wea shot'dom 6 his 12th missles rar Jorauty

and aga nrbsonee of wag for 16 monthts Hs wae honorably sepsuated
ag a Captain, ° é

40 Tn 1999, along with several Cubenehorn, Vale oltizens =o
cere war vetaraus, be satazed. the Ouban police tones, thers dz
Dilingeal abilities soos troagwh bie advansousits He wet, 2b ‘his ©

tine, in centmet with Hrs SPEARS, the Fal sepresentative ab ths
Voeaeury representative ia bruaking up tye narcotics rings plying

“atusan Florida and Guba, Be served as ogeord for Ste, TWN md
“hosaret of theie visit te Oba, for which he recsived 3 dite:
House qormenda tite, 7 : innate

‘ye “En DUSHERYs winion, be bese the obfest af peracmal
so ca the vars of an wmumed Sobassy staff etebc’, sho Sook

3 O

4

sie nis eitivenship stats based on his sembers!
melisee Ta aw effort te routity hte plight, te 4:

Fal veprasentatives sont his to Tre Merida |,
Savana abtoract, to prepara. the case lor a alea


igeording to SAREEte paccllection, this. secured
LAE owpilead a femai¢able Mle om the Sublecs
sovauication with a Saahington, Veils lags] firm,

£ clay vecalle as. thaS of iztumrd Danmett VIIA,

‘a rile the ease lowally,. A private sill ws introe
Sonsresa by Congregarmn “LIGA af Yew dersey
Seblest's aittsumship, but B12K28 dees net imow
wa takes ot the Sill, A$ the time, he cas in
touliies and took @ job as a tractor driver cote
or about } santha, tn wich perlod ke had no. ecritact
balk LALO, “tht, as 347KRR believes, interpreted Mis failure _
tha office ag @ lack of interest in prsssing. the cose
sece2al eonalusions

3A loaves that Bey LA29. amd Wo WELIANS had compiled a.
a7 em decunented file on his background, tcolucing his
Sacord, and avards. from the 4ray ir Comes Currently, 90:
covvelig an a Chan passport and 12 in the US, as a

paroled to Sermie FETCHED,

| aneag he

ia tn santaet with bins Ne knowe Dry LAZO-Le.
th all details of bie ease and could sonfira the.

of the Vashingten attarmey whe handled the litde tian -
“ootlize PASTEL seonlls visiting the attommay's oftice it Waahe
‘aie on one sowaston, and Bonnet WILLIAMS wad the mane he’
Llane Be belterad the Layer twa Anvalved in the Senator
ny hearingss

Te Zend oe some Sateen, the fetevg reammente
ation? are sades A

de Mitte /Jases. | so) be requested to ascertain froa Dee
LAZO the nam of the Yashingten ‘lew tum: which handled
's sage {n'1953, end the reason for the failure of the
Sdtlo :

:



se

Be The Office of General Oomsel be ccupletely belated
om 3uhJect's case and be requested to firaish furmieh guidance or
Saie appropriate action to sesiat the Sub, whether by
Sota Teetaan aot ey to Rage he Uy esses

* Ghdef,: . tyr
Mstribution: :
Orig & 1 = Addresses.
1 + Subj
1 - Chrone.

WH/\/S0:RPMoroneyiftk = 17 Jad 62

