AAAAA
104-10534-10101, {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

,

¢

DB MEMO #6585

3 January 1964
SUBJECCT: Technical Analysis of Letter and Envelope -

DB CASE $4361
: REFERENCE: WB/2 Memo dated 13 December 1963

1. In responge to referenced request, an original typewritten
letter and envelope addressed to the American Embassy, Stockholm,
were examined in order to determine the origin of the letter and the
nationality of the writer.

2. The following conclusions were drawn concerning the letter
and envelope:

a. Tne typewriter in question is equipped with an obsolete
style of German-made type which, according to our references, was
fitted on a mmber of typewriters made in Germany during the 1920s
and early 1930s. The possible makes would be Stoewer, Torpedo,
Mercedes, Rheinmetall, Urania, Orga, Fortuna, Continental, Kappel,

! Groma, Triumph, Merz and possibly some others. Of these makes,
! the Torpedo, Mercedes, Rheinmetall and Triumph were probably the
! most widely distributed.

: b. ‘The machine in question is equipped with a black ani red

| ribbon. ‘The keyboard ie very probably Swedish, as shown by two
strike-overs: vumlseut-u for hyphen end "s" for "a". ‘These
characters are adjacent on the standard Swedish keyboard, but not
on the German. The umlaut-a was not used in the street address,
“Btrandvagen” (where the dots should have been placed over the
second "a"). This might be either a simple oversight or an attempt
to conceal the writer's familiarity with the correct spelling.

baa tet per of the letter is of the international standard
H (om) size "Ah" vhich fe almost universally used in Sveden. The

{ linen-textured stationery seems to be rather common in Sweden.

The two emaller pieces of blank paper match the ppstee de acadaaiay
respect to width, thickness, color, texture and look-through, and

were probably cut from enother sheet of the came type. ‘The envelope
matches specimens of Swedish envelopes taken from DB/5+Postal.
Intelligence files.


DB Memo #6585 - Page 2

a. The letter was posted from the Stockholm Ban post office,
which is located in the central railway terminal in Stockholm.
All mail deposited in street mail boxes in this area or in the post
office would be processed through this station.

e. The cancellation cachet on the envelope is identical in
all respects (format, postmark, number style and length of killer
pars) to exemplars available in our office.

f. The postage is correct for Svedish internal mail and the
postage stemp is of current issue.

&- A possible irregularity is the time lag between the internei
date of the letter, the date of the postmark end the date of receipt
in the American Embassy. The totel time from the internal date of
the letter to the time of receipt is eight days, the time between
the date of posting and the date of receipt is more than three days.
This transit time of more than three days for intra-city mail appears
irreguler when compared with the average transit time of only two-
three days for arrival between Stockholm and the United States.

3- The text of the letter warrants some comments because a number
of peculiarities were noted - aside from pure spelling or typing errors -
which seem to indicate a Swedish writer. The batons words represent
either Swedish spelling or modification: "reserv", “etablished", “murded",

"Krustjev". Other examples of Swedish grammar and syntax vould’ be:
"mst" (as past tense), “in Soviet” (Swedish form tut not. spelling),
“he was spy” (without indefinite erticle), "FBI, USA" (without definite
article), "should" (rather than “would"), "“outenmggled” (Swedish past
participle form), and “whole the world” (pure Swedish form).

4. Another significant detail is the name given, “Ryo Lieng Yuan".
“Ryo” 1s not a standard spelling in eny known Romanization system used
for Chinese. "R" is seen in the new Chinese Commmist national system,
but never in combination with “yo”. "Ryo" 4s a Japanese spelling. In
the name given it is not.Jmow whether the Chinese or Western presen-
tation is used, in other words, whether “Ryo” or. "Yuan" is meant to be
the surname. Among Chinese syllables which could be represented by the
Japanese "Ryo" are Liao, Liang and lung. Of these Lung ('10:7893) and
Idang (10:2733) ere used as surnames. In either case, "Ryo" is hardly
@ name by which a real Chinese would identify himself.

5- In summary, end based on the above information, it is concluded
that the letter vas transmitted via normal Swedish postal channels. The
letter is probably a “crank letter", most likely written by a Swede,
using e Swedish-keyboard typewriter and Swedish stationery.



13-00000

DB Memo #6585 - Fage 3

6. For further information concerning the typewriter ané paper
analyses, and the Swedish style of Ianguage usage, contact Mr. Jan
Beck on x2009. For further information on the spelling of the
ostensible writer's name, you may contact Mr. Gerald Worth on x2608.
For further information regarding the Postal aspects of this case,
please contact Mr. Robert H. Banks on x2303.

7. The original letter and envelope are being returned herewith.

ALBIN R. TRECIOKAS
Chief, TSD/DB

Attachment: (1)
As stated

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - TSD/GARB/A&R

1 - TSD/DB/3
1 - DB files
1 - PI chrono
1 = Case 4361

TSD/DB/5-PI/RHBanks /x2303/ery

