# 104-10102-10176

## Page 1

104-10102-101761

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

May 1977

MEMO RANUDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Antonio Carlos VECIANA Blanch (AMSHALE-1) 201-312966

dpob 1928, Cuba

1. Information from review of VECIANA'S 201 file:

a. HKHA 6958, 21 Oct 60:

1960 -

President of Association of Public

Accountants

1957-61

Employed as CPA and Manager of Banco

Financiero, Havana, Cuba,

a loan

company owned by

Julio LOBO LAMEMBER-1,

former Agency contact 7

Formerly Chief of MRP (People's

Revolutionary Movement) in Havana area.

b. HAVA 7133 (IN 14488) 9 Dec 60:

On 7 Dec 60 VECIANA called on COS Havana with

former member of the

ANwAIL group, who at that fome repemented the

movement in Sagua La Brande

/AMWAIL

Justo CARRILLO Hernandez' Montecristi Group7 AMPANG

have been Cuban Revolutionary Council

Station had contact with CRC member Manuel RAY7.

VECIANA told the COS Havana of a plot against

Fidel CASTRO, et al.

in which VECIANA was

involved.

Jos cave VECIANA no encouragement

whatsoever.

VECIANA said he had previously spoken

with a State political officer (iden not given).

7 Oct. VECIANA entered U.S. at Key West.

passport, no visa.

Came via small boat, received

$100 month refugee assistance.

d.

WAVE 0311. (IN 44277) 29 Dec 61:

29 Dec 61 JMWAVE Station requested POA on VECIANA

His wife and

chitdren

for use as sabotage man for M His parents were

were living in Cuba.

living in Spain.

Sira Antonio NUINO, later

13097

---

## Page 2

VECIANA •

- 2

-

e.

JUAN 0636 (IN 24738) I July 62:

Bayamon,

Puerto Rico.

Purpose was to solicit funds

from 40 persons attending

(above-average Cuban

exile professionals).

than request for funds with

inference reprisals against any who

to fulfill this "duty.

VECIANA said it was

necessary that they undertake an action program

outside of U.S. control. In this connection

the group was in contact with CIA through person

"Joe" but group was not going to confide

in CIA and were taking precaution of avoiding

CIA penetration.

VECIANA left

for fund raising junket to Chicago.

f: OOA(s) 3232106 (WH 765) 26 July 62:

VECIANA was interviewed by Harry REAL 23 July

REAL was officer of New York Contact

Division.

VECIANA said they needed Agency

help, but under no circumstances would the

Agency be identified with its activities.

VECIANA said they already had $50-60 thousand

dollars at their disposal scattered in different

in the U.S. and P.R.

VECIANA 's immediate

requirement was conversation with someone in

Agency sufficiently highly placed

commitment.

DBA 18681, 8 Aug 62:

VECIANA allegedly went into voluntary exile ca.

Dec 61 arriving in Key West via small boat from

On 5 July 62 he left P.R. for Chicago and

New York City to collect funds for Alpha 66

activities.

VECIANA had been contacting Cuban

Fla., Chicago,

tossin me to can ect set, co cast to

Money wis being placed in

informant said VECIANA indicated names of

following three individuals then in Cuba who

were expected to assist Alpha 66:

Guillermo RUIZ /believed to be VECIANA'S

cousin's husband Orestes

Guillermo RUIZ - DG17.

Bernardo PARADELA

Informant said he knew all three as they had

been

connected in 1956 with SIM (Military

Intelligence Service) in the D.R.

VECIANA said

PARADELA W.S then in jail in Cuba, but NOBLE

---

## Page 3

b0064449224

VECIANA

- 3 -

and RUIZ were on the losse

in Cuba, and were

cold blooded killers.

h. DIRECTOR 73652, 6 Sept 62:

Alpha 66 meeting conducted in San Juan on 30

Aug 62 by Geronimo ESTEVEZ attended by 200

Cuban exiles.

Meetings were held weekly. Had

plans to recruit young Cubans in Venezuela,

P.R. and

Miami.'

1. DBA 25402, 22 Oct 62:

VECIANA was trying to obtain 2 boats from some

unknown Americans

somewhere in TEXAS.

VECIANA'S

66) centered in P.R., pperated out

of unidentified

Bahamas, and had

representatives in Guatemala and sympathizers

in Miami.

j. Memo to FBI from CIA, 6 Nov 62:

Reported that Alpha 66 officer Dr. Ramon PEREZ

assistant to Dr. Jose Luis

GoNZALEZ, both

of whom are Castro Cuban infiltrators.

k. DBA 28528, 1 Dec 62:

Large

sums

of money were allegedly donated to

VECIANA for Alpha 66 activities by Julio LOBO.

1. Memo for Record, 31 May 66:

VECIANA had roomate in Puerto Rico, Felix ZABALA,

who visited Cuba Nov 65 in regard

to Camarioca

refugee departures.

Has an identical twin brother

in Cuba.

Had sister in Cuba, at that time,

secretary to Ramiro VALDEZ, Cuban Minister of

Interior.

m. JMCOBRA 0490 (IN 63607) 2 Aug 68:

VECIANA told Cuban Affairs officer Miami 1 Aug 68

that Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez (DGI) married

to VECIANA'S

cousin,

was dissatisfied with Castro

regime and receptive to recruitment.

reported

In 6game info, to Cuban Aftairs officer in

VECIANA

served with AID in La Paz.

---

## Page 4

VECIANA

- 4 -

n. CLAPAZJ4964 (IN 97745)

cited in m above

appeared at State political

section

said Henry TAYLOR in Miami invited

Sept 68 with same info: Le RuIz.facIAnA

VECIANA

to visitICAS La Pazl, who would follow-up

RUIZ case.

0 .

OGC 74-0019, 4 Jan 74:

Letter to U.S. attorney N.Y. from OGC, John

Greaney re Antonio VECIANA and Ariel POMERES

in re unlawful acts of both from 1 Nov 72

to Jan 74 re unlawful importing of cocaine

or other narcotics.

2.

N.B. The Guillermo RUIZ married to VECIANA's cousin:

a .

lived in the U.S. illegally in 57.

b.

was to penetrate

flew from Mexico City to Havana on 22 Nov 63. ~

c. Married to VECIANA's cousin.

d. Reported by VECIANA to support Alpha 66 activities.

Chris Hopkins

LAD/JFK Task Force

N.B. VECIANA has allegedly been involved in

several assassination

attempts against

Fidel CASTRO which for one reason or

another never came off.

They were not

connected with the Agency.

---

