04-10300-10341) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

geal a

ot
7 ef, SRS 18 October 1967
H oy 2 DC/SRS and C/FIOB/SRS
2 ———-

G) PEREZ, Ralph Cocument Number (343, ~ 10 55

earns for FOIA Review on MAR 1S7F

| 1, With reference to Ralph PEREZ who is mentioned in

paragraph 2 of the attached memorandum on Richard S. CAIN

dated 9 October 1967, he would appear in all probability to be

Sabject who in the spring of 1963 becante of interest to DCS (CO/C)

for routine exploitation as a source of foreign positive intelligence.

| 2, On 28 June 1963, Security advised DCS regarding an un-

substantiated report that Subject subscribed to the Communist

publication "VOZ de MEXICO" and was a Communist leader in

j 1944, He reportedly was a leader of the Commmnist nucleua in

| the Chicago Mexican colony. According to a notation dated 6/26/63,
this information was considered resolved in Subject's favor through

- 1959 B.1. conducted on Subject's sister.'' DCS was also atoeees

wv . oteet Subject's. sister (Maria Guadalupe GALLARBO,: with:vazrious:~

akas) ) was reported by reliable informents te have been a member
of the Mexican Commission of the Communist Party in 1946 and a
card carrying Communist Party member in 1951. During an inter-
viewin 1954, she admitted attending meetings of the Communist
Party and a Communist Party school during the mid-1930's in Chicago
but dehied having attended Communist Party affairs subsequent to 1945,
or 46 ever having been a member of the Communist Party.

t 3. With reference to Guillermo ESCOBAR, whom Subject
; (PEREZ) is said to have given Horace SPEED Il, #199 499, aga

lead, he may or may not be Guillermo (ESCOBAR) MARTINEZ, aka:
Guillermo (MARTINEZ) ESCOBAR, #444 260, a Mexican citizen who
in October 1956 was issued an operational approval for use as 2 mem-
ber of the LIPSTICK Team in Mexice undex Thia
approval was cancelled by WH/IfI in a memorandum dated 9 November
1957. There is no derogatory information in ESCOBAR's file and no
information on him since 1957.

‘een, in

| “EORET [SET


mar

G

Oy SECRET i.

4. The only other Guillermo ESCOBAR on whom there is
information in Security Indices is an individual by that name. listed
in a 5 December 1949 report on The Fourth (TROTSKYITE) Inter-
national. Thia Guillermo ESCOBAR, Secretary General of the
Federacion de Obreras de Imprenta de Chile, was listed as one of

the personalities in the Partido Obrere Revolucianaria, an ‘affiliated"

Chilean organization.

Attachment: memo dtd 9 Oct 67

SECRET
