# 104-10428-10213

## Page 1

АЛАС

1704-10428-10213

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(

LEAATI

_Pen Lit

E.A TOTAL COMES 1D - 3 MUN

SECRET

"ir!

HIEPRODUETION JY OTHER THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED-

S STAR NES

CUEPISLOTTED e

FP. FILE

3

N

F

T 320205

_.?.

VR 0/201, 2D03, 68/2F

EYES ONLY

PAGE 01

SCSARGE

31-2 222

1 TN 115271

TOR: 382349Z NOV 76

MEXI

38555

SECRET 392317Z NOV

76

STAFF

SITE MEXICO CITY 385.65

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAK

PL VW CADET

SA/LA

REF: DIRECTOR 950609 (attached)

• 1, HOUSE COMMITTEE INVESTIGATORS DID NOT CONTACT

STATION AS OF 160D HOURS 39 NOVEMBER.

?, EVEN PRIOR TO RECEIPT OF REFERENCE STATION HAS

UNDERTAKEN SEARCH OF ALL FILES WHICH MIGHT CONCEIVABLY STILL

CONTAIN INFO RELATING TO OSWALD PRESENCE IN MEXICO CITY IN

1953, SEARCH STILL CONTINUING AND WILL ADVISE RESULTS•

3, REGARDING PARAGRAPH A OF REFERENCE, WISH PROTEST

IN STRONGEST TERMS AGAINST PROPOSED FULL PUBLIC DISCLOSUPE

OF AGENCY HOLDINGS RELATING TO OSWALD ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO

AS PROPOSED IN REFERENCE, WHILE WE WOULD HAVE NO OBJECTION

TE DETAILED AND TRUTHFUL SUMMARY. OF OSWALD ACTIVIYIES AS

..SUGH, THE OFFICIAL REVELATION OF OUREL TA ISION RELATIONSHIP,

JOINT ORS AND AGENT TRUE NAMES INCLUDING POSSIBLE IDENTITY OF

LESSEE OF HOUSES USED FOR PHOTO SURVEILLANCE WOULD HAVE

DEVASTING IMPACT HERE, IT WOULD. EMBARRASS OUR FRIENDS, DELIGHT

SECRET.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

(

ISOWUNIT NOTHIED.

at PertY.

THOM

UNiT

LEE SLOTTED

FIF

FILE

N

420263

lsx"

SECRET

_ ?

REPRiCOUCTITi: ST OTHER iNAT

ISSUING

PRCHIBITED

STAFF

VB

2

EL AN 12

PAGE D2

TORIZOZZAOZ NOV 76

OUR ENEMIES, REDUCE UTILITY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF ONGOING

OPERATIONS AND EXPOSE NEW LOPEZ PORTILLO ADMINISTRATION TO

BARRAGE OF QUESTIONING ABOUT (COOPERATION WITH CIAD WHETHER

SUCH COOPERATION) STILL CONTINUING AND SO FORTH.

4, IN OUR JUDGMENT ANY SUCH OFFICIAL REVELATION OF

JOINT OPERATIONS WITH LIAISON MAY EFFECTIVELY TERMINATE

(KDBADGER) AND SIMILAR ACTIVITIES, IN THIS CONNECTION SEE

MEXICO CITY 38523641121961

DA TED 26

NOVEMBER WHICH REFERS FO PROBLEM

WE MAY ALREADY BE FACING WITH NEW MINISTER OF GOVERNMENT.

(IT SHOULD BE REMEMBERED THAT TELEPHONE TAPS IN MEXICO ARE

UNCONSTITUTIONAL, AS MINIMUM, OFFICIAL STATEMENT ABOUT

JOINT OPERATIONS, WOULD CONFIRM THE WRITINGS OF PHIL AGEE

AND JOSEPH SMITH.

5, IT ALSO SEEMS TO US THAT SUCH STATEMENT WOULD BE

IN VIOLATION OF OUR OBLIGATION TO PROTECT SOURCES AND METHODS.

IF AGENCY CAN RELEASE INFO ON SENSITIVE SOURCES AND METHODS:

AND PUBLICIZE PAST OPERATIONAL RELATIONSHIPS WITH SPECIFIC

INDIVIDUALS, IT IS DIFFICULT TO SEE ON WHAT GROUNDS WE COULD

GRITIZE THOSE WHD MAKE SIMILAR PUBLICATIONS FOR THEIR OWN..

PURPOSES, WHICH TO THEM, MAY SEEM EQUALLY LEGITIMATE.

SECRET

IN 115271.

MEXI

38565

---

## Page 3

13-00000

1: 35005

..y.

(

TOTAL GORIES

SECRET

REPRODUCTICN UY OTMEN

iSSUING OFFICE IS

THA!!

ФРОНІЦІТЕЕ

SON/UNiT NOitED

INCE COPE

KEEL DISLOTIED

CIO: LiVIT

RF. FILE

STAFF

BY

-_AT

VR

2

N

F

T 425203

ET AN 12

PAGE 03-03

TOR: 302349Z NOV 76

IN 115271

MEXI 38555

6, IN SUM, WE BELIEVE THAT ANY PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

ALONG THE LINES OF PARA FOUR OF REF WILL GET US INTO EVEN

MORE TROUBLE THAN WE ARE IN AT PRESENT: WE VOLUNTEER JUDGMENT

THAT WE ARE IN THE TROUBLE WE ARE IN BECAUSE AT TIMES IN PAST

HE SEEM TO HAVE FORGOTTEN THAT WE ARE AND SHOULD BE AN

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY. PROPOSED REVELATION OF (LTA IS ON)

RELATIONSHIP, JOINT OPS AND AGENT TRUE NAMES WOULD CAUSE

HIDE-SPREAD SKEPTICISM THAT WE ARE IN FACT INTELLIGENCE

AGENCY, E2, IMPDET,

SE

C

E

---

