# 104-10071-10416

## Page 1

1104-10071-10416

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIÄ

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

+==

CLASSIFY TO FILE 1O.

C-RET TOiFILE

но.

PILE

Дает. то

ESTROY

OsIG.

BRANCH

ISSEDFAT

- f1

FER

тЕС"

CT107

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

REPRODUGTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITEO

NOTIFICATION TO

ROUTIME

AMDAOR

IMITIALS

SEEM DY

Xieu

2540

ADY. COPY

CISSUE0(510T7E0 DrE

10

VE FILE. DDI 6/FE3 AUDA. ES/DO

18-5

SECRE I 2918302 APR 68 CITE BANGKON) 9432

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO (ANILA

RYBAT WOMUSE SECUR

REF: DIRECTOR 93162

1. AIR FORCE INTEZLIGENCE ADVISES THAT MAJ. BERNARD

ACTION

# 00058

REHKOPF, USAF ASSIGNED TO MACTHAI, HAS BEEN IN TOUCH

ASKING ASSISTANCE IN CONTACTING AN LNERGO OFFICIAL.

REKKOPF CLAIMS THAT HIS DAUGHTER RITA, WHO FORMERLY

WORKED IN BANGXOK FOR LAW FIRM AND IS NOW BASED IN

12130 C05 Test.

jid-

bet son

1435

Hon

NEW ORLEANS WITH DELTA AIRLINES, HAS TELEPHONED HIM FROM

NEW ORLEANS APPROX EIGHT TIMES IN LAST SEVERAL NIGHTS. SHE

STATES SHE IS IN THE HANDS OF LNERGO. SHE. CLAIMS THAT SHE

KNEW JAMES EARL RAY AND SAYS SHE KNOWS HE WENT TO LONDON.

SHE FURTHER CLAIMS THAT LNERGO IS PAYING FOR HER PHONE CALLS,

AT THE SAME TIME. IMPLYING, AT LEAST AS FAR AS RENKOPF IS

CONCERNED, THAT SHE IS UNDER A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF DURESS.

20 RZHKOPE IS VERY DISTRAUGHT AND CONCERNED FOR

• DAUGHTER'S WELFARE. AIR FORCE ADVISED HIM THAT THEY WOULD TRY

•TO PUT LNERGO IN TOUCH WITH HIM. THEY HAVE ASKED HIM NOT TO

DO ANYTHING DRASTIC, SUCH AS SURFACING MATTER TO THE PRESS,

z/M

SECRET

09335

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE 2 BANGKON) 9432 SECRET

AND THEY ARE REASONABLY SURE THAT HE WILL COMPLY, AT LEAST

FOR THE PRESENT. HOWEVER, HE WANTS ASSURANCES FROM

INERGO THAT DAUGHTER IS BEING WELL TREATED AND IS IN-OO

DANGER.

3. RECOMMEND HAS ADVISE LNERGO HAS FOR ACTION AS

13-1

APPROPRIATE SUGGEST MANILA ALSO PASS GIST OF ABOVE TO LEGAL

ATTACHE. THERE IS OF COURSE, POSSIBILITY THAT RITA MERELY HAS

AN ACTIVE IMAGINATION. HER REPUTATION WHILE KERE WAS

THAT OF FLIGHTY AND IMMATURE PERSONALITY.

SECRET

SECRET

/pr.

---

