/104-10779-10124] 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

i RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
% Do Not Reproduce

| CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Teh motertat comtetan, Informe afesting te Motel Seer of the Unies tut wie, the mal of tee Taplonage Leet, Tite Hf, USC. teas.
Ba case Se" eenmlccon or tervition of wah Seen eticece mt ioea’ by tee.

County cuna foeett ate HT tocs -3/490,978.

SURECT STATEMENTS OF MANOLA’RAY, EXILE LEADER Dare piste. , 24 ocroper 1961

OF THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT
+ PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF
octoviR 1961

is-
| maces igs shoe “conson(24 octoser 1961) . 3. :
3 FIELD REPORTNO. ['OEL430, 995
Tis WUNEVALUATED nrotnation. JOURGE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT Is TENTATIVE °

SOURCE FROM “SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG EXILES

REFERENCES INT1257

+ TW CARACAS™.
1. MANOLO RAY, EXILE LEADER OF MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO-

DEL PUEBLO (MRP - PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY soveMeNf) SAID IN

EARLY OCTOBER THAT HE WAS FIRMLY OPPOSED 19. 2, ANF THYAS ION OF CUBA,

INSISTING THAT CASTRO'S OVERTHROW WAS TO 8 gtHlEVED BY INTERNAL
RESISTANCE AND THIS HAD ALREADY STARTED. H : eo :
2+ THE MRP WAS ORGANIZED THROUGHOUT aye ISLAND AND SUPPORTED :

BY ALL CLASSES OF THE POPULATION. a Pret MEMBERS IN ALL 33

TRADE UNIOMS, THE G-2, MILITIA ANS-finousHoUT THE ADMINISTRATION,

RAY ESTIMATED 80. PERCENT, OF POPULATION WERE OFPOSED TO CASTRO, ‘
THOUGH MAJORITY WERE TOT ARTIVELY SO, HE CONSIDERED THE MRP AT :

* ° PRESENT ENJOYED MORE. PPORT THAN THE ORIGINAL REVOLUTION HAD

&
i
‘

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:

$YOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL

TARMY/AGSI_[ NAVY | AIR SECDEF | NSA | NIC USiA | OCI | ONE
RAS REASURY. REPCINCLANT.

‘(EGQWSZUINFoR mation REPORT fupgaae

