1 7
|104-10012-10034]
2005 .

ae 42022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Oceay

voccy ASSAS,

In respo

POU has endeavored

us ieaeres
tained. f.

2. waloo will
contain information pert

“Earl J: willia Las!
acy COR

Attachment 1 a
Bie data on individuals

siemary of FRD, DRE, INCA 7°!





sed ‘by the Agency.
wecluituent on

in New.: Or'lea’ is
ostensibly. created: b:
political figures, includizg
Guy Banister, to collect mone;
fight: against Comiaunism. A
incorporation, eed oot

ERIS ore asain was
Gzicaus , business and .
deceased former 23 agent,
aid Cubams iu their

the. articies of'
o be use aad sup

ort

less a percentage to be
gation conducted by a Blidark “ation asset conciuded
that the FDC was Srganised: lee for the persou2l gain-
of the promoters with the aporowak and- colleboration of
ARCACHA ¢!<Fhe investigation ced na e
individtial donations were ev 22
recommended that the fun = i and the
books of the New dada
22 of parse &
ederal tax evasion, since
vleans Exporters Company ,
of New Orleans Stevedores Ur
officials of the FD
FDC was created,

Pro. an investi-







LEU

CA official
MWAVE asset and Ex
ecently in Miami
O-HITLER in HAVANA".
Lvs ovgavssation.

JINCA PLL on:
2 for'a summary



Rigit, &
ae : ing the ‘invasion
Benes vr 1962 prisoner

wiicd to Cuba with his parents

sity
subuud to Cubu
EN) !-bdta 23 °
wesident of.:

“CONSTRUCTION COMP
resides, aud
Beach, ¥lorida, until at
lost: his :US: citizenship d
Cuba and immigration record
parole status in November ile he was:stik
in W. Palm Beach, He apype. eturned
sometime after that date. R's mother -

ton, Louisiana, and he bas « sister who is married
PIPES, dv., member of a prominent New Orleans f:

his years. “of rr ice’ in

cate he ‘applied:f6radvance



Lanai

wile Buiilio. sav
uber 1860 2s 2

ice that an Emilio Sx
1936 in Betas
Wo counts
arrested Shas
2 on 2 February 195:
1a. At the tiue :

as presumably: sel
rvest SANTANA ‘gave- his.
iami, Which is Eh asi

separat
the old
on vari

did tive his forner adevess to vhe ar
indicates he is Emilio SANTANA Galindo.
form includes a photog 2 which
JMWAVE for identification purposes if this becor

3. Although JMWAVE has ki
ieee his termination, th
ed £3 June t that $ sed
€ Seaver on an auto credit application.



and made 5 . ‘there -is no Sidication that a
Carlos. 4 employed by -the: A
Sica



vy excha .
the Agency,. ot.



20 April
: 3 in the pre ed
na e3 Scive s : es on the co

% ions NOVEL claims



ie in WH/COG



ATTACHMENT 2 TO WH/COG 67-194



sted into Cubs
by obtain-

military actions aed at Oreeney
funds from late
eabors were used

: i ning
attending internatio;
at-Ageney- Giree ton; and—producing™
programs and special propaganda campaigns.

ion in

2. Aites
of the. best DRE
present there are it ;
tries which have ma tained “some contact with varia}

‘ Agency ‘stations over the
longer very a re. Dur “ ceganiza
period of active esistence DRE personnel wer
with several ve stafiers and outside contract agents
However, from January 1935 Faia December 1566, coatact.
with DRE person ben 28 i two agents, Juan Manuel
SALVAT, the cu
operating a oetstire = lami, tae and Fernando;
GARCIA Chacon who was relocated in El Salvador.



Lied by the
tipg. ail

Been requested

po dinvelved-—-with-
mh visit whert ii
fo oe

was given -

he noeouea

« "S and re
shortiy after Bede
. considerable appe g vas r arly

presen

and Spyanish lanzuaze
she was surfaced in Mexico.

request ed that Miss Casta’ ar as a guest speaker
in ae tion with the dae

fila would bate bec je)
inadvisable to permi Mt ss cASTAO. to accept the iivdtafon

has wanted to avoid any wore tavolvencint between Mis
and INCA and the Station asse!. in his “capa ones as Lb
Manager, has managed to prevent this. °*+
ual ct between our asset ae
oa prosident of 1he sine

eans trip. This took pl:
avea promoting the. "HITLER IN "HAVANA" f

ve of feeuey co
iness” z



wed BS
Teitiali
id propayand.

tue #RD-hend=
assigned. its
Kew Oz Loans, Louisiana, Tampa
ico City, to gather intelligence and. :

afi

refugee "activities. ea

based
eus waicn Laclug
and M
coordinate Cub

tevand aint FRD"
Hoe group was headed by ered and ‘Whi

il October
completely abs ceived by the CRO in-o:
resulting from duplication of persvilne ctivities an
funding. The CRC also had direct access:'to President
Kennedy and tod Tinite House aides, . Because of the magnitude
of the FRD and CRO epe. ious and the Agency. participation
in the activities aud funding of the groups, a large number
of JMWAVE and Headquarters were directly involved with. both
FRD and CRC personnel. Ei : ”

“to avoid the confusion

