104-10107-10130| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }

“UNCLASSIFIED.

, OGC SUBJ: ITKIN, Herbert
: TERNAL

. ime 23E_ONLY

SUBJECT: (Optional)

MIKE - ITKIN

CO cog entiat
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

et

FROM:

Be CACTI REA
‘TO:' (Officer designation, room number, ond

Larry Houston
7D01

EXTENSION

Ww

Se 610 “tones (] SECRET

(=CONFIDENTIAL-

some thought to the. p
surveyed in paragraph:

AlNTERNAL 7) UNCLASSIFIED


ini)

SECRET
EVES ONLY

9 January 1969

RETURN TO CIA
MEMORANDUM Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
SUBJECT : Mike - Itkin
—2=l0 ok

1, See our IN 66370 from, ) (This is our “copy:

It is RYBAT, and therefore we can't make a copy.) (QRJIBE/1
is (Thomas L, anes former member of Itkin's law firm. |
NaN)

2, A reliable source indicates that the District Attorney's
office in New York maintains a routine contact with the INTERPOL
Chief in Treasury. Mr. Hogan's officer is Cantrell, He hasa
direct contact with Douglas, the INTERPOL representative in
Washington. In December 1967, the District Attorney's office
in New York City, through Cantrell, triggered an inquiry by
INTERPOL, Washington, to Scotland Yard, London, regarding
Herbert Itkin's travel from London at a particular time and on a

articular flight. It is assumed, therefore, that the request to
also originated with Hog atgottice.
TZ0
3. Regarding Itkin's allegations of contact with the Agency
during the period 1954-1961, Mr. Sam Papich noted that the

individuals in Senator Joseph McCarthy's Investigative Staff in
1954 were:

Frank CARR
Jim GIULIANO
Don SURINE

CARR, he said, was Chief of the Investigative Staff and would certainly
have known of any contacts maintained by McCarthy under circumstances
alleged by Itkin. Mr. Papich did not know CARR's present whereabouts,
GIULIANO was an assistant. He was last reported to have been practicing
law in Washington, Both GIULIANO and CARR are quite approachable,
Mr. Papich thought, He recommended against querying Mr. SURINE,

‘SECRET
EVES ONLY

