# 104-10173-10013

## Page 1

104-10173-10013

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

THIS DOCUMENT HAS

PROVER FOR RELEASE

ON 1/21/94

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

OR 25000

DESKSHR panding- apenden

of (J10I asce 8110

15-5

Dator as Blation, Brassala

Т8OM

Pator, HE

SUBIECT

I secure

ГОРДІННИВУВ

(Desalt of Hous

SECRET

DESALSAT ACROFILM SERVICE

8321

AST.T0N PETY

NOT IDE

rars tracas en

P5200122a Pot Tresses

1929, at

Bed as al Docerber 1955.

residt.

Sirget, London, to do

3. Tha revords of the Pa

so calle

1a London to obtain a visa to

aLt as en astour journallo

$ tha burton iotaL, CLarge

lost 117th stroat

ng Ia her, was to expand and strongtben the Badted Battors, and

Altinataly:

•to form a Harid Goverussiat

Coordinating aboar

LASINGAL

тоям на 51-29

1849

201-102.798

2 duele 5-1

8/BR

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

NI COFY

DISPATER NO. [03W41500k

alk with legal exporte

hopod to caTer a story, previously unreported in the lost, and also trace

Use case hiatarles of one or more of the soldiers formerly stationed 1n

Austria who kore then boing denoblllied. She Identlfied her neuspaper outlet

as the Horth Anorloan Herspaper Alllanco, 229 West aird Stroes, Her lark Clty.

5.

On October 21, 1955, the Departsent of State suthorised the Babasay

to validato subject's passport sos traval to Russia providias Soviet permissio

to enter that country vas grentod. On Hovesbor 17, 1955, subject presentod a

lotter Iron the fusatan Inhassy, London, wilch notilled her that her viaa so

Russia had been received.

Thereaftar, on November 22, 1955, hor pasapart

was validatad for travol to russia.

6. The dato of the ODEHVI LaPoraatIon 10. 24 Jamary 1956.

1а 80 РагАр 3, BRACTRESS reports that tha Harld Student Pederaliato

18 an organisation uniah l8 a part of the World Absociation of NoTIú Federal-

18t8.

The bold Students Pederalista 18 l1beral but not considored loitiot,

and 1ts purposo is as mentionod above.

It was founded in 1947 and bas its

headquarters in Austerdan.

BIAGTHE93 has no record of subject's sotivitios

withia this organisation.

Rehand tange

HALES

19 July 1957

Ws/2/JStein/hb

Digtribution:

15-5 (8m35e28 = 1

- 1'

COURT

• Releasine officer"

Ccordinating rticer

..03

1. S/ fries

E/2/erusse 29),5-

Authenticating officer

r.:?

C COay

..:

4/BR

---

