# 104-10107-10028

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10107-10028

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

(.

06676-3826

7-12-76

9 July 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Glazunov: Declassification of Nosenko Reporting

REFERENCE: Chief, CI Memorandum for the Record, 2 July 1976,

Subject: Meeting with Mr. Donald Jameson

In accordance with paragraph 3 of reference,

reviewed the original Nosenko transcripts and handwritten

notes regarding Ilya S. Glazunov for the purpose of declas-

sifying

certain information to be used by Mr. Donald Jameson.

Nosenko's comments concerning Glazunov were summarized in a

blind memorandum attached to US/76/177, 3 July 1976, which

was prepared for passage to

29

blind memorandum has been declassified on the authority of

Chiet, Counterintelligence Staff.

The substance of that

paragraph which has been declassified is marked by red

information as Nosenko has not been declassified,

and thus

any use of it in accordance with the purpose outlined in

reference cannot identify Nosenko as the specific source.

A copy of the blind memorandum is attached to this memorandum

for the record.

2.

For future reference, the declassification of para-

graph 1 of the blind memorandum cited above is limited only

to that portion of the paragraph so bracketed, and the

declassification does not extend to the original Nosenko

transcripts, handwritten notes,

or other Nosenko-sourced

upon which the blind memorandum was based.

Signed

DC/CI/RGA

RETURN TO CIA

Background Veg Only

Do Not Reproduce

E2. IMPDET

CL BY 063926

SECRET

ZIBR

---

