104-10186-10133|

3ip¥

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

: pp

Saptretereneeraee an aon Made peeatopadnadiassie HARES ERECEREDTOST Oca

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

HH

‘This ma.ertal contains tnfarmation sfecting the National Defense of the United States wiuntn the meaning of the Espionage Lacs,
‘or revelation of which In any manner to en unauthorised pereoa te prohibited by

18, ORC peck 753 and TH the tranemiadion

ae
| SECRET
{ NO“FOREIGN DISSEM
fect :
i COuntey Cuba REPORTNO, = CSCI-316/01211-64
i siaect (toa) MANIF Addis Abdala DATE OTR, «= «16 September 1964
1
i NO.paces 1
RETUR :
ackgrouny Te CIA REFERENCES «= CSCI=-3/779 , 827
i Do Not 8 Only . 31 January 1964
| "DATE OF Reproduce i
| INFO, 1964.

mace & Washington, D. C.
Date Aca. September 1964 FIELD REPORT NO.
THIS 15 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE OMADINGS ARE OLTINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE,

Source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence ;
Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comment

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is: requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. (fnu) MANIF Addis Abdala, also known as "El Moro” and
“El. Polaco," may not be a member’ of the Direccion Geneval de
Intelligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI) or the
Departamento de Seguridad del Estado (Department of State
Security - DSE), but he knows many people in the DGI. MANIF
works in the Ministry of Foreign Relations and source saw him there
in January 1964, He was previously in Algiers and the United
Arab Republic. Source has known MANIF for seven or eight years
and considers him a supporter of the Castro regime.

2. Source described MANIF as having been born between 1931
and 1934, being six feet tall, betweon 170 and 180 pounds, having
long straight black hair, black eyes, a burn or birthmark on his

right cheek, and of Syrian extraction.

. Headquarters Comment

1, Aside from the information which appears in the above
referenced report, the records of this Agency do not
contain any additional identifiable information on MANIF.

Ss 3
4 4
3 SECRET : 3
H : NO FOREIGN DISSEM Se] 2
[sare Tome Tarr Trav Ta Tusa bs oe
[REP _CINCLANT __CINCSO # TENS”
‘ete teld dm vtion ledcated by “27D im

t = wee:

i
MUSA wou +
CL/SACR

paugsa ch

aware ov

