# 104-10308-10265

## Page 1

1704-10308-10265

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Job #

File #

Volumes:

Dates:

63-345/53

19-9-15

3

Sept 61 - Oct 62

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Pro-Gobierno Constitucional de Cuba (PGCC)

1.

Description:

A Cuban exile organization with offices in Miami, Fla.

interested in actions and operations to free Cuba from terror and

Communism.

2. Findings:

a. UFGA 2242, 30 Aug 61:

A sub-agent of JMWAVE Station outside unit (AMOT's)

propaganda.

b. WAVE 9026 (IN 18296) 6 Nov 61:

WAVE cabled Hqs. info from independent sources following

meetings between HURWITCH, PASSAVOY and MIRO Cardona.

AMCLATTER-]

(Bernard Barker of Watergate fame) reported that HURWITCH and a

CIA official were discussing revolutionary affairs with MIRO Cardona,

and that CARDONA and his group were backed by President Kennedy.

It was further reported that MIRO had full powers from President

Kennedy and was in a position to give orders to CIA which would be on

In addition MIRO reportedly stated that he had

US Government support to direct Castro undergrouns activities, and

that all other groups must join him to get support. Other groups

not interested in joining MIRO, because MIRO's ideology was different

from their's. MIRO had never come out strongly as anti-Castroite.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

- 2 -

C.

UFGA 3806, 20 April 1962:

Concerned plans of Central American countries for

action against Cuba.

One General SOMOZA (Pres. of Nicarague)

stated that CIA would be handling the intelligence ramifications

toward organizing a Cuban military group in Central America. The

dispatch deals with additional U.S. Government aid.

Also, one

to present the Cuban-in-exile plan.

a. UFK 16, 15 May 1962:

Reported information from GARCERAN, leader of the

Pro-Governo Constitucional en el Exilio (an anti-Castroorg.

operating out of Miami, Fla.

GARCERAN stated that lawyer Geno

NEGRETI had made an appointment to see him stating that a Mr.

WARBELL wanted to see him. NEGRETI made his appointment on

8 May 62. It was GARCERAN's understanding that WARBELL was the

go-between for a Mr. TROUTMAN from Atlanta, Georgia, who had been

the boy friend of President Kennedy's sister (the one that had died).

WARBELL indicated that he wanted the appointment to see what

GARCERAN's needs were and what aid and assistance GARCERAN wanted

for carrying the war to Cuba.

e. Dept of State Memo 14 July 1965:

Which had attached to it a PGCC memo to the Department.

It contains a quote of Fidel CASTRO that he wanted to arm Cuba

with the most modern equipment (arms, planes, etc.) capable to

stop the United States, and the Latin-American countries as well,

"before they discover our strategic plans . To that end I need from

hundreds of thousands of light infantry arms to planes and long

range artillery. Every country in the Continent must be the target

of our guns, from New York and Washington to Santiago de Chile and

Buenos Aires."

LAD/JFK Task Force

Attachments:

Researcher: (Barbara Boyle)

---

