1 '104-10308-10021

[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ol

( S$-E-C-R-E-T : a
(

“BA NUS 1955

MEMDRANDUM FOR: Acting Deputy Chief, WD for Cuba

SUBJECT : Attempted Assassination of CASTRO June 1965.
2, 7
REFERENCE Hi Qsna}19782, 11 August 1965

& roy
20P 1 On raturnine to Madrid ca 10 August, OuaNtuH-51,)
vho has been in Havana for years, reported

at Mario SALABARRIA Aguiar, former Commandante in the Cuban
National Police 1944-47 and chief of Police Intelligence
(SIIE) 1945-47, and 27 unidentified persons vere arrested for
congiring to Jill Fidel CASTRO late in June or early July 1965.
Accorcing to QUANTUM-59 who talked with meinbers of his family,
SALABARRIA had sworn t0l avenge the death of Eufemio FERNANDEZ
Ortegn, former National Police Captain. As the lender of this
conspiracy, SA RRIA worked Slosely with Dr. Bernardo MADANES

on, vas arrested before the plotters vere
y out their plans. SALABARRIA then advanced the
cate set for the assassination. The conspiracy was discovered

i he was arrested. When his wile learned that SALABARRIA vas
to be condemued to dcath, she went to Fidel. to plead for ber
husLand's life. Fidel, who at one time had been their friend,
denied knowledge of SALABARRIA's case but assured her that his
life would be sparec. According to QUANTUM-51) Geeta
wife knows nothing further of her husband's fate®|

2. News of SALABARRIA's role in an abortive assassination
attempt and of his. arrest is significant confirmation of current
reports regarding the exposure of a plot to kill CASTRO in
Havana in June-July 1965. The Agency bas known of Mario
SALABARRIA's conspirstorial activities snd personal dedication
to his role as Fidel's murderer since the summer of 1963. At
that time SALABARRIA vas secking ‘weapons and funds for his
mission, Through his confidant, AMTURVY-4,,a barkeep on the
Havana waterfront and a long time friend of{ QUANTUM-SI the
sought contact with AMTURVY-1, then a minor official.
SALABARRIA had known. AMTURVY-1's brother, AMCONCERT-1, for
twenty years and he assumed that AMTURVY-1 was in touch vith the
Agency through AMCONCERT-1 in Miami. Accordingly at their first
meeting in the summer of 1962 in AMTURVY-4's bar, SALABARRIA
told ANTURVY-1 that he was a member of a group which was plotting
CASTRO's death. He asked AMTURVY-1 to help him obtain money and
wespons for this conspiracy. He emphasized, in particular, that
he” needed money to purchase vehicles which were essential if the
wroup were to succeed in their mission. In return for whatever

ut
gil

eo Vil


13-00000

’ : é ( ‘pen-Un net ¢

AMTURVY~1 could furnish, SALABARRIA offered to carry out minor
sabotage actions for AMTURVY-1's American "contacts". A few
months later in October 1963, when we were satisfied with
| SALABARRIA's bonafides, we managed to get a few pistols,

revolvers and some sabotage materials into SALABARRIA's hands
through AMTURVY-4. SALABARRIA responded with a plea for more,
but denied that he could retrieve an arms cache from a site on
the north coast. AMTURVY-1 became cynical about SALABARRIA's
plans and then in response to our instructions he abanconed
direct contact with SALABARRIA early in 1964. SALABARRIA,

i however, continued to see AMTURVY-4 who kept in touch with both
ANTURVY-1 and QUANTUM-51.)o)

". Meanwhile, SALABARRIA's accomplice, Dr. Bernardo MILANES 4
Lopez, prominent Havana doctor who was the personal physician of
CASTRO's mother for 15 years until her death in July 1963, was
recruited in November-December 1962 while on a visit to Madrid.

During the course of his recruitment, TELANES stated that hee
ive a_group of conspirators wl otting to kill
He alluded to disgruntied Rebel Army officers and medica
colleagues, but he did not name SALABARRIA among those few he
identified as persons of trust. He did, however, spell out the
groups needs for weapons, money and vehicles in order to carry
out their assassination mission. And, he finally agreed to
serve as a collection agent in return for linitec financial
compensation and in the apparent hope that we would in time
furnish him with sufficient funds for the needed vehicles.
Following his return to Havana in January 1964, MILANES proved
to be a fairly regular S/W correspondent, a source of some Order
of Battle. While he repeatedly urged us to help him obtain the

vehicles for his group, he never disclosed to us how deeply

involved he, himself, was in the plot to kill CASTRO. We
subsequently learned that he had informed SALABARRIA of his
recruitment by CIA in Madrid and that he had tried to persuace
SALABARRIA to work directly with him rather than with AMTURVY-4.

4. MILANES was arrested in the company of his chauffeur

and nephew, both fully witting of his clandestine activities
for the Agency and presumably equally involved in the conspiracy
to kill CASTRO. From the limited evidence acquired to date,
it appears that MILANES' arrest may have been prompted by the
blackmarketeering of his nephew, censorship of his mail or
physical surveillance. In any case, it is known that he had

; in his possession compromising Agency commo equipment and S/W

) materials.

Originated by: Susan L. Darling:cm
Orig & 1-- Addressee Walter T. Cint
1-- WH/C/MO C/WH/C/MO
In J-- WH/C/MO/FI-CI
i


ee | al. en ererereneeretmstiecinistETEISEEEEnEI aE Rlineninanrs

GA HISTORICAL faviEW PROGRAM:
"RELEASE AS SANITIZED

MEMDRANDUM FOR: Acting Deputy Chief, WIM for Cuba
SUBJECT : Attempted Assassination of CASTRO June 1965.

REFERENCE : [o222}1:9782, 11 August 1965 i

sho has been in Havana for years, reported

hat Mario SALABARRIA Aguiar, former Commandante in the Cuban
National Police 1944-47 and chief of Police Intelligence
(SIIE) 1945-47, and 27 unidentified persons vere arrested for
congiring to wild Fidel CASTRO late in June or early July 1965.
According to | C-F ~Jwho talked with members of his family,
SALABARRIA had sworn to avenge the death of Eufemio FERNANDEZ
Ortega, former National Police Captain. As the leadcér of this
conspiracy, ABARRIA worked closely with Dr. Bernardo MELANES

na y a

a returning to Madrid ca 10 August, o/ J

n 3 s MILANES , according to
“E nformation, was arrested before the plotters were
eady to carry out their plans. SALABARRIA then advanced the
Gate set for the assassination. The conspiracy tas discovered
aud he was arrested. When his wile learncd that SALABARRIA vas
to be condemued to dcath, sho went to Fidel to plead for ber
husband's life. Fidel, who at one time had been their friend,
denied knowledge of SALABARRIA's case but assured her that his
life would be spared. According to ol SALABARRIA 's ©

wife knows nothing further of her husband's fate.

2. News of SALABARRIA's role in an abortive assassination
attempt and of his. arrest is significant confirmation of current
reports regarding the exposure of a plot to kill CASTRO in
Havana in June-July 1965. The Agency bas known of Mario
SALABARRIA's conspirstorial activities 1nd personal dedication
to his role as Fidel's murderer since the sumuer of 1963. At
that time SALABARRIA vas secking ‘weapons and funds for his
misslon. Through bis confidant, AMTURVY-4, a, barkeev on the
Havana waterfront and a long time friend of c oO} J he
sought: contact with AMTURVY-1, then a minor GOC official.
SALABARRIA had known AMTURVY-1's brother, AMCONCERT-1, for
twenty years and he assumed that AMTURVY-1 tas in touch vith the
Agency through AMCONCERT-1 in Miami. Accordingly at their first
Meeting tn the summer of 1962 In AMTURVY-4's bar, SALABARRIA
told AMTURVY-1 that he was a member of a group which was plotting
CASTRO's death. He asked AMTURVY-1 to help hia obtain money and
weapons for this conspiracy. He emphasized, in particular, that
he ueeded money to purchase vehicles which were essentinl if the
uroup were to succeeG in their mission. In return for whatever

: ao
git

yl
ee


AMTURVY-1: could furnish, SALABARRIA offered to carry out minor
sabotage actions for AMTURVY-1's American “contacts". A few
months later in October 1963, when we were satisfied with
SALABARRIA's bonafides, we managed to get a few pistols,
revolvers and some sabotage materials into SALABARRIA'‘s hands
through AHTURVY-4. SALABARRIA responded with a plea for more,
but denied that he could retrieve an arms cache from a site on
the north coast. AMTURVY-1 became cynical about SALABARRIA's
plans and then in response to our instructions he abanconed
direct contact with SALABARRIA early in 1964. SALABARRIA,
however, continued to ree AMTURVY-4 who kept in touch with both
AMTURVY-1 and Cc o!| 3

‘nt Meanwhile, SALABARRIA‘s accomplice, Dr. Bernardo MILANES «
Lopez, prominent Havane doctor who was the personal physician of
CASTRO's mother for 15 years until her death in July 1963, was
recruited in November-December 1963 breed on a visit to Madrid.
helene the course of his recruitment, NES “that

t g ere otting to kill
cers and medica
colleagues, but he did not name SALABARRIA among those few he
identified as persons of trust. He did, however, spell out the
groups’ needs for weapons, money and vehicles in order to carry
out their assassination mission. And, he finally agreed to
serve as 2 colloction agent in return for limited financial
compensation and in tho apparent hope that ve would in time
furnish hiw with sufficient funds for the needed vehicles.
Following his return to Havana in January 1964, MILANES proved
to be a fairly regular 8/W correspondent, a source of some Order
of, Battle. While he repentedly urged us to help him obtain the
vehicles for his group, he never disclosed to us how deeply
involved he, hinself, was in the plot to kill CASTRO. We
subsequently learned that he had informed SALABARRIA of his
recruitment by CIA in Madrid and that he had tried to persusce
SALABARRIA to work directly with him rather than with AHTURVY-4.

4. MILANES was arrested in the company of his chauffeur
and nephew, both fully witting of his. clandestine activities
for the Agency and presumably equally involved in the conspiracy
to kill CASTRO. From the limited evidence acquired to date,
it appears that MILANES' arrest may have been prompted by the
blackmarketeoring of his nephew, censorship of his mail or
physical surveillance. In any case, it is known that he had
in his possession compromising Agency commo equipment and S/W
naterials.

Originated by: Susan L. Darling:cm

Orig.& 1-- Addressec * Walter T. Cint
1-- WH/C/MO C/WH/C/MO
1l-- WH/C/MO/FI-CI
