# 104-10169-10054

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10169-10054

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

.:=.

10

000

C-de:, !.E

244--24-22

ПіОМ

ward

Chirt of Stallor., Cilro

LO:UPEST/SUCHUE - Darlo

JosiTO dha sToreliai

H8T.

ust.

ATION MONTO

subject

Sor Perarraph?

oc: lia, irrat

MARIID FOR INDIAMO

NO MALING SEQUITO

MOIIINE CAN SI JOGIO

nimit approstel as Estypetions

201-271141

MAI ½ g 15b/

=÷°2

Attached 19 an article which appearod in the Egyptian Dazotto

on Apr11 20, 1961 by David DUBOIS (DU BOIS), American Megro teacher at

Catro Univeralty. According to Kural Sald al-DIN, Doputy Sucretary

TPELIDE OffICOr), slbject 1s the

Anorican negro, and he 1s nix glving loctures In Amorican Literaturo at

Cairo University.

Al-DIN said that subject had a two year scholarship

In communist China but was so "fed up» he left after cirht months and

18 nou tory unts-Chinese.

Subject's idle's first name is Shirley. Ho

has not registored at the American Consulato

Coneral..

2o IrRoas are roquested on subject and his father.

See teel Kron Ansara Nyse, whos son, Daviotiocies at

Chiar la anchweitze rticles allurking dis.

Lester K. Clatterbuck

Lostor X. CLATTERBUCK RC.

seats to per ple forwarded hewith

17 May 1961

Dineributions

3 = 0/NE

copy sent to FE/Cis no elipring

Answered NK.CW 74485718-08961

Itt the 11/400

INDENEX

COPY DETAINED IN

NE-2/CGNi i CHROMO

# COPY

кови

10.0 108

23 Maya/

201-07114.1

corners

---

## Page 2

14-00000

sHt.#.I.toNF

AT.3300 -:

' LETTER TO THE EDITORS

AMERICA AND THE INVASION OF. CUBA

To the EdItor,

чатя

that for

"The, Isolas Cosetto.

trond clas

cillorrahid

manio late

CaUe

Chels

• 8t8.

dessent

for live.

gencrallons

nate en

shed American

soll

fered urder the inke of Ame

second-claos

Hand

eltizenshid,

unallerably

poposed

10

. and strangly

cundemn

the

partlelpalion and

connivance

ol the US rovemment la the

rebel

have the sudane al

honess

multons

black and whtle

ther

labelled Carinunta, ene

or tie slare asi

trat

tors

Jalla

and thus throw

Lato

DeTenTured

nAme

not by che ta roman.

ment to atrick

by American ofticials

•lear as Prestient Gams

Abdul Nasse

nas

Lose is sol

Communton i

and

INDEPENDANCE ! Those Who

Lylnk to turn bac

the

the

port

l and

materia!

84D.

hands

of

time shall

DETIaR

the USA

LUDA

shall

maintain

her

Sach

achon on

overnmen

me par

Freedom

and

proceed

the road SIlE

shooms to

does

nothing

somie, palisien!

and.

rappor

she repeated

defender

одте

and tho

he

and

ol

ustlat

poopies.

order

in.

Americ

win

the respect of the

lence

colonlal

the

colonial

апа

and

prople of

color, and

of hanset

NOP

les

the world

and

she

Asta

109t

realize that inh

the

couTso

of hlainty. Noe" wilsin

her

tha Cons

the in,

Aler

our

Rain

Indi

merica's '20 milllo

ca aro very familla

overnment that

with

sides

speaks

mouth

'same. time.

riving

lo lhe denire of

llp.

жа

colar for freecim and

ependence

time

and

at

the

atvine

materlal

moral encoura

to

worst elemen

life

who

Remer Amo

winh

slates

aun

maln•

white

alton in tha USA

and

dominilla

"bernite

she

tha

overnmen

AmEN

calmine

80t 1188

milllons,

let

TIca

unsat

kin Intellectrate

aludenta

have

crime nimagaly

two fame

rune

only ke

Sincerely.

DAPID DU 8018

Casra, Aprtl 19, 1061.

Carly Wee at

AZAN

our risht

brantle

Aramin

manend of

mora.

alony shora.

MAN Z91561

+ 046112711171

Egypton XayaTt, 201-271141

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET.

INSTRUCT:EAS

PRIDA TO FILIMO

1. Fill 1n Sect. 2. on back. Detach back

Plap and sorrard to RID.

2. Destroy front cover sheot.

unless 18

significant action

concents requiring preservation.

FROM:

RID/

AN

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If sale no, and title show are not

proper, insort proper filo no. telor

and sorrard document to RIDIAN.

PROPIA PILE NO.

TO: ALL

ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON DI.CK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTA

TO

ROOM

No.

DATE

ОРРІСНИВ

RECEIVED

IPOAMARDRO

IMITIALÒ

1.

2.

NAME TRACES INITIATED

LY RID SENT TO-

NE/

MAY 2 9 1967

W

!

COPY RETAMED IN

NE-2/EGYPT CHRONO

-=.-

Eid

03

Cusick

003)

03

NE12-306

0.

88.

18.

1703

ECTORN TIT

T IS FIR

LIVINI T

HEND _

• IN T18 KLUENT 17T

78NS/ML

1050 L

17.

RID/TI

TRACK

AROUEST

DATE ETCHOTILMEO

ABATRAOT

INDEN

19LM

6100

USA PAIVIOUS

03

aluad, sent in ky fany

Weber:'

-tare peo.

Answered to NECH THNSINO

ENE GIASPRIOATION

Unis Dealgnalton

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DOUG DA

2.3 Many 6l

ARCORT

DOCUMANI NU

NECA 10882

3/810

---

