*"404-10172-10278) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS au OF 1992 CIA

; : ee Background Use Only
: : * Do Not Reproduce

Peererernreres

REDCOAT/LCINPROVE/AELADLE -{Tabe varie Ingeborg SLi20%

ro canty :
al He 3059, 2 June 65 — ie word
REF: 7261, & June 65

action: “Fir

1. Subject was intervieved for an Imaigrant visa on 7 July 65.
Unfortunately Clastonbury could not de present becezse of other business.
Toe {nterviewing officer vas briefed pricr to the mseting and faced the
applicant with a series of queatioss regarding ber association with
Soviets and any approaches that may have been made to hor in light of ber
unusual life, In response to these questions, we ure told that SLIOOR
gave thoughtful consideration to each question and probably truthfully
replied that although sbe bas met several Soviet dinloasts, no approaches
for cooperation vere made to her, She realited the full izplication of
the questions end made ro attempts to be evasive. Subject vas given

her visa imeediately efter the Interview.

9)

2, Attachwent 1 49 a transIation of the oe
As noted in the traces SLIOOR vas an ecquaintance
(201-150156) and Georgty *STERTNG: born 29 June 1913 ow Can:
Georg! STEINING; [OFHAL1807, 30 July 56 ana(oruWliASé, 9 October 56).
Toese nenes were not used in the interview. 772

ject.

3. Attachment 2 {3 a thernofax cory of SLIOOR's visa; Attachment 3; |
Birth record; Attachment &, zarriage certificate.

4. Froa subject's visa application her address in the U.S, {0 Listed
as Fort Hood, Texas.

Attachnentat
as stated

Distribution:
3 = WE v/atts

a on H
memes |
; Lorwat1329_ TS duly 65 H
rte Sea aeen i

}
: |

= x

Biba
