/o4-t0218-10012) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

‘

Cac arcane nnn neg nr emanti mtNME: CABTES NE HERETR ES

HOUSE SELECT COMMEITEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEE

ERS

FILE TITLE/NUSBER/VOLUBE: Hep, LR, tA), MAVELCE
Lewse DS, | DLCUIMNERTS

INCLUSLVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: iy 1

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

RECEIVED | RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
NOT KEVIEWE® BY HSCA,



SwSECE ¢ Feurtes Byrn MIE...
Kaphemaze <— B
Bursta File amber 65-34303

2% 18 tne cons to our attention throah « cmoitive eowce
of lve relintiisty thet Maurice Foon HALaIN, vho ie residing
én Houomy WOR, is low to tha folladng idividualss

Be Seen oauiterise Gane rs inet os ace vance
Catenied Reach Brae "i pyri
tan Sivest Korth, Boston, Harsmciectte, Haemacaocttos AACE Ti TRACE DY:

3 Ras offles tas no information Idowsfichle with ether
Benjani or Freddie” FAST, Wa would appreciate betas furdshed
eay portinest infersntion oa the FAIIWe that mxy bo contains tn
yeu? Slate

FOR PAs DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLAE?)s ~

REJECTED FOR MICROFILM
9 a0 picRs

Fete

: GI/SEDabigertartiae (3 Dosenber 1959)

uw,


Sots ae L/w, uit, oo FA/OPS, £702

S DEPORT. SRLAF ROCK ft :
CAAT RUEVO LA
PECTOR IN LARCOG +.
SE TOUS. | :
THAT U.S. INSPECTOR Laren 5:

BO TNFORG VEXT INSPECTOR Ns
& THIS CROER. . CEPCRTATION wt

ae ORCER GUEN AND MRD INSPECTOR ine

AGOUT EIGHT MORE ULE,
OTHER DATA :



1
H
‘
le
e
\
i

A Glossary of Avbreviations :
4 Agenoles of Allled Goveraazata —

. We wold ap reaiate receiving two e-piea of BAA Ho. 2816
on the above subject for the Liaison Office, X-2 Branch.

«cota natragnig. © “mame seisianulibertas esgeae


atten, - pike
: Sc
et
Aas
Lt. Raynond Besta 2 11 Noventer 1944

Horace. is Potome——

bur

ee LAL : i

CID Accesaioned Doct

IT would very much eppreciate receiving coples

of the following C.I.D. accessioned documents

. for transmittel to the FBI for their retnation:

98178 ©
: ". 98197 C

avP/avm ~ E
Source: Marron 11/8 |

| aig atte eens! HOP

enTa TN,


at

bt. Blepard Haetencme ; : 11 Novexber 1944

fiAL

Horsce UW. Peters

oe CORD

tie

I would very much cppreciate receiving copies

‘of tae following H & A documents for trans-

mittel to the #bl for their retention:

ie R&A 268
R& & 2623

BWP/ovm piace
Source: Marron 11/8 ~



Lt. Ricnard dartshoras : 7 December 1944

“Lte Thomas ®. Lunn, Lt.(J.g.), USKE

Liaison Ofri

X~2 Erench
R & A Doounents
pi ata nic

* X would appreolate reoeiving copics of the

following & & A documects for tranmittal to
the FBI for its retention:

R& & 1552

R&A 1749 :
We would also like to Lave a copy of doousent

RRA 236, "Scope ana Operation of Genserrhip

in Chine" to be retained in the files of this
office.



1

Lt. Richard Hartshorne _

‘2 December -1944

Lt. Thomas W, Dunn, Lieut (J.g.), USKE

R&A Documents

I would appreciate receiving a oopy of the :
, ‘ae

following B & A document for transmittal to
the FBI for its retention:

R&A 2396



4 Raymond boston. a heed 1 Decender 1944

Lte Thomas a. Dann, Lieut., (§. ay USNR
X-% Branch

C.I.D. Aocessioned Documenta

I. would appreoiate receiving a copy of the
_ following C.1.D. aocessioned document for
tronemitteal to the FBI for its retentions

100456 B

mv
Source: FBI 11/29

- CONFIDENTIAL



NVERSATION WITH

f&, WILEUR'S SECY, R& A AND BYA,TORELL
—_— :

WHO IN yA (Blogrerhies of Chinese leaders)

I telked to Ur, Wilbur's secretsrv, 2 & A, Pxt. 2231 and requested
the publication "shots iho in Chine’as well as the supplement to: the
fifth edition dated 1940 which was reprin.ed by Gil, She said that they
had a copy of the suprlexent and she is coinz to see if we cn have that
copy, or if not, she will ret us a copy from OI as well as ~he original
publicetion, . She will.phone-me.today,

us. 5/W/hh Mr. Silourts secretary called beck and said that above publica-
tion. cust be obtained from O%I - Seorze Taylor, I phoned Taylor and he
said he would send me the publication’



: cpa OSS Ext. 520
CONVERSATION BETEESN LT. D§STON's SECRETARY/(R & A)
—

4/20/4h THLEFY
: : AND 3.4, TONELL

It. Destan's secretary advised me that interrogations of passengers

the Gripsholm, Warch 5, were not in-2 & A files but
it was possible thet the Foreign Experts Group in New York rizht
have those interrogations, She is contacting dew York and will
advise.

A/2ifuh Deston advised ne thet there was no infornstion available
on these iiterrogations, -- BAT



Me, Hareld Woleburg
Latin Anorica Division

Ure Je George Gately
Liaison Officer, X-2 Bransh

"Union Popular Venesolsna®

The attached report frva the FBI ia trancaltted
cs por your rowest of Ih dunes oe



(en

Lieut. Raynor Dertea, DIR : -
Chief, Central Infomatien Divisies 22 eure 1945 of
lr. J. Goorge Gately :

Listson Officer, X-2 Brench : : “a

LF Gy rcs Document Hos AW56535

The attechod docuzent was made avalleble by your
-.*, branch to the FBI, You will note that in Paragraph 3 there
: "49 @ portion of the text nissings

It woud be appreciated if yon would make @ new
voc, 6opy available,



_ md + oo

Mr. Harold Helohure y A ey
Latin Averien Divisions". 7%

ure J. George. Gakery..
Liaison Officer, X-2 Bransh

FCommmist Activities in Bolivis®
~EEREEROTE

The attached report from tho FBI 4s transmitted as per your

requests



}
{

pape vee

be

& SECRET CHIR

WASHINGTON 25, D.C. «

L2-1295-63 : 5 June 1945

Memorandus for: Mr. C. Derwin Marron
“subjects Communist Matters and Others

‘The attached C.I.D, accessioned documents
ere transmitted for your information and retention:

456534,
456552
A~56553
456613,



Sokal Fad i

Raynond Deston, DSR. :
CMe, Contrel Litortitise pivteten

Hr. Je George Gately,
Ldaison Officer, L-2 remch

R&A Docunents |

17 May 1945

We would appreciate receivirg copies ef the follering

The Sinarquiste Movexont
in keaico

Pree Austrien Hovenent in
Great Britain

Report on en Interview with
Dr. Chieng cto.

way
109621

§
Bille

E

Ce

afin
Sources Hr. Marron -

Guba: the Significencse of
: the Pedrasa Concpireay,

“C.I.D, accessioned dooumnts for trensaittal to the Federal lurem
2 ~Of Investigations

Bate
43



y ' ee ‘

ree rent att ie fa
Office Memorandum ° UNITED STATES*°GOVERNMENT

fT Me. de George Gately pate: 3 May 1945
FROM = Flore Alper Co

: Office of thd chief, CID

‘ _ SUBJECT: Attached photostat

i Attached is a photostut of CID docunent #108929 roquested por

telerhone conversation on 2% April 195.



'

“you please call on us,

*4 CONFIDENTIAL

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES
WASHINGTON, D.C,

ay
30 April 1945
MEMORANDUN'TO: J. George Gately, Liaison Officer, X-2 Branch

FROM: Lieut. Rayzond Deston, USER
Chief, Central Information Division

SUBJECT: R&A Documents -=

In reply to your request of 26 April 1945, I would like to
give you the following inforaation:

Your requests for R&A documents #2810, #206, $760, #2965,
#764 bas been forwarded to Mr. Dunawsy's Office of R&A Branch. The:
Feporte will be sent to you by Hiss Hornstein in ur. Dunaway's Office.
That 1e the distributing office for the R&A Reporte.

Your requests for documents U=245, Me258, and Me257 has been
forwarded to Mr. Henry Field's office. His office is the distributing
office for reports of this kind. -~

Your request for docuzents A~48723 and A-51559 originate in SI
and bas been reforrod to Mrs. Art, Ext. 2391 in. SI. If you will conta
Mrs. Art about these documents she will seo that your request: is ‘filled. ¢-2 |

Dooument 120284, R&A 60 is not available for distribution by
your office to the FZ1. This dooument would involve the THIRD AGENCY
ruling and therefore it cannot be transmitted to tho FBI. i

: I believe, however, the above information will enable you to
Teceive ell tut 1 of your requests. If CID can be of further help to



“COMHMENTIAL
Lt. Raymond Peston.
joie Acmcaaee
J. George Gately, Liaison Officer, X-2 Branch -.

R& & Documents

: ' Ke would appresiate receiving copies of the following
C.1.D, aesessioned documents for transmittal to the Federal .
Burean of. Investigations.

-  . Apeessions Fo. Source Ho, Subject Date

e748 206 ‘the Palange Party of Spain, etc. 15/12/41

111276 210 — Background Stady Some Leading
Pro~Denocratic Argentines, ete, 8/1/45

120024, RGA 704 Interior Brasil - cto. —

120284 R&A 60. fee regarding 23/1/s5
i

109534, 760 Philippine Island: A Survey of w/7/a2

9873 2965 Hes Trends Toward Totalitarianism

in Argentina Wad 5
4 10329 3292812248 . Ae48723 = dapany informatica
fabian etnies conserning the Police, ste. Te-89
~ 121063 Mohs Studies of Higration & dettlesent:..—
Jewish Communist Life &

eee Organigation - Latin America
" aso. H-258 Stadioa of Migration & Settlement l0=he45
Latin America
121900 - M-257-- Stadis2 of Migration & Settlement  9-inhS
. Latin America ve dite
sen 29523 40 Ae§13591 China: Data on

228 Kuomintang Elections in 0.3. 2/r5 .



Q "try Maurtee Halparta. cf + a : 28 March 1955
7 “Wry 3, Govrge Gately
» Jo Gorge 6

ee _ Philippe 1. SCHERESCHEASEY
— ee
Raferences Menorandua fron Mr. Halperin dated 13 Mareh 1945.

Gar filee contain no information concerning subject.



uj

cxanoeres mat tem ae szcret eter

Office Memorandum + oxirep states GOVERNMENT |

To : Mere J. George Gately DATE; 10 Yarch 1945

Ry h
FROM : Lieutenant Bernerd F. Dorr, USM L g

SUBJECT: Document Number A-50471

This is with reference to your request of 22 February,
addressed to Lieutenant Deston,, for a.copy of tho. subject
cocumant for transmittal to the State Department.

Beoause this document is one which wo received from the

SI Branch and it is against our policy. to disseminate SI

documents to oxternal agencios, I suggest you. telepkene

Mrs. drp, Extension 2391, for & copys



twee vee 84 oy compra. AS

ee Office Memorandum - UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

i To + Mire J. Ceorge Gatel: pate: 10 March 1945

FROM : Lisutenant Bernard P. Dorr, wn Bd : Ae

SUBJECT: Request for Docuzents

In accordence with your request of 22 February, addressed
to Licutenant.Leston, I am attaching a copy of R&A report
- ; Mo. 2705 for transnittal to the FBI. Future requests for R&A
reports for transmittal to external agencios should be addressed

to Dre William L. Langer, Chief, Research and analysis Branche

Document No. 108929 is a report which we received fron the

Survey of Foreign Experts and you may borrow it and similar

4 a documents fron Mrs. Karr, Extension 2355, for photostating.
eee ee foouments nunbers”108977 and 109052 are Si reports and I

suggest you telephone re. Arp, Extension 2391, for copies.



renedeal

if following 0.I.D. accessionsed documents for trans-

—

o)

ston Ye Lu 22 February 1945

dg, George Gately, -Liaison Officer, X-2 Branch.

R&A Documenta

We would appreciate receiving copicss of the

mittal to the PBI:

1089286
1089296
108977C
1090525



CONF IDEN
Lt. Raymond Deston / Pr " 22 February 1945

Mr... George Gately, Liaison Officer,X-2 Braneh:

Document Ho. A-48183
a

A copy of the above document, the subject of
which was "The Comintcrn's Ccmmittee for Liquid-
ation, " was given'to the FBI et their request.

The FBI has stated that they huve never heard
ths sudject of the document referred to by that
title. As the evaluation of the subject document
was given as "C-3", the FBI requests that the con-
tenta of the document be reviewed with a view to
obtaining a better evaluation.

IcG:nfa
Source: FBI
oral request: 2-21-45



a

SECRET

Haymond.Deston, Aft 22 Februury 1945

rge Gately, Licison officer, K-2 Eranch
_Selibetodal en

We would appreolate a copy of the following C.I.D.

“ eccessioned doounent .for trananittal:to the:

Stato Department:
Ab=50K7L6



SEcREE

Mr. Maurice A. Halperin, R & A : 5 February 1945
le. 3, George Gately,.Liuison Officer, X-2 Branch

Relationship of Argeatina with the Axia

fhe attached memorandum containing information on the
subject was received from the FBI as verbally requested
by you.

Attachment

oGG:nfa
Source: Halperia, R&A -
1-23-45



-. Reference:

Mr. Maurice A. Halperin, R&A 30 January 1945
ur. J. George Gatoly, Liaison Officer, X-2 —
Information on Persons in Boliyia

Memorandum From Mr. Halperin to Mr. Horace Petera dated
31 October 1544

Thore is attached information received from the F.B.I.
on the subject, A copy of their cover letter is also
attached for your infornation.

Attachment:

. ICG:mfm
_Source: Halper 10-31-44



NTIDENTIAL
Lieutenant boston sony
3. George Gately Js 4 pb

C.1.D. Docunents

U6Januery 1945

a

It 4s re juesved that you furnish us with a photostatio

copy of the attached document, CID No. 102614 for

Soeeeee rp ager aC

: transmittal to the F.B.I. ee d
| ee
; ee
: Ae 2
i : i :
He Attachment i :

e IGG mh i

si ontsrataloe”



cs CONFIDENTIA

I
becth

We. Faynond Deston i 8 denvary 1945
4. Gorge ctely :
BGA Docunents

be. would-appreciate-reesiving a copy of the. following C.1.D,
eeceasioned document for tranemittal to the FBIs
104605 $

GATSLYSHOLLARD
SOURCTE FBI 1/4/45



rca mona, 86 : ah

Office Memorandum -

, : ; :
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

J. George Gately, Liaison Officer ~ X-¢ Branch DATE: 8 Jamury 1945
Barbara Even Sentral Information Division

CID documenta = request for

In accordance with your request of 30 Decexber 194
addressed to Lieutenant Kaymond Deston, U.S.U.R., attached:
herewith are photostated copies of CID documents Nos. 101,032
and 103681.



COM foes
ENT AG

Lt, Raymond Deston 6 January 1946

i ad. George Gately, Liaison Officer, X-2 Branch
: R& A Documenta

We would appreciate receiving copies of the

following Col.D. accessioned documents for

transmittal to the FBI: ;
102614 C

Source: FBI 12/30

CONFIDENTIAL



fecal
; Uy yoo,
Lt. Raymond Deston Vii BO

December 1944
J. George Gately, Liaison Officer, X-2 Branch :

—_—

We would eppreciate receiving copies of the
following C.I.D. accessioned documents for
transmittal to the FBI:

104052 8
103681 8

36C/mvm
Source: FBL 12/27

: i Wis weitiial



Dac. 26, 1544

” We would appreciate zeseiving copies of the following 0.1.D.
Goesesicnst documents for trananittal to the FAI:

103285 B
10s823 §

iy
{

ONFIGENTIAL

ated


uw

fibiret tk,

Lt. Moharé Rartehoras

3. George Oetely, Licison Officer, 1-2 Brea
Racers renee,
R&A Documenta

: ’ He would appreaiate receiving.® cory of the following R&A doou--
eae pent for tranemittal to the FBI for their reteation:

BGA 8350 : :

OATELY! SL OnS :
Soureat FEI/ 12/18/66

QSRR,


' wh

Mee Loca daa

: CUini eciv i iAL i

Mr. W. Borah, B&A : 12 Decenber 1944:
=

Jv. George Gately

vahchane ASEH
Organizations in Mexico
: a

The attached menoranduz from the FBI oon-

talas additional information on Orgeniza-
tions in Mexico, which you requested on peseieeateiacre)
31 July 1944.

Attachment

JGG/navm
Source; FBI 12/11

Cin iweiviial:


conmBENT 4
Mr. EB. A. Kracke, dro, BhA 18 December 1944 |

q. George Gately

Requésted Conference with FBI Representatives
Concerning Japanese Police Gystcss

“The FBI has advised us that tt would not be
worthwhile to nave the oosference which you
proposed due to the fact tuct taey have no
-information concerning Japanese police or :
espionage systems.

9G/mvm i!
-Source: FEI orally 12/16 w_omdede



IGG/nva
Sources FBI 12/16

us. " ie REA Stine,

Te George Getely

Dionisio FOLANINI

“Your oral request of 5 Decexber 1944

-. The attached memorandum from the

¥BI contains information on subject.

:, Attacanent:

18 Decenber 1944 i



Mr, Keurice Salperin 2&4 Novenber 1644

3. George Gately

Bezi_Wanctionerlez in Argentina :
a cn

on rear em BA Me

The attecned memorandum from tue FBI contains
eéditionsl infornstion on the Nazi furction-
aries in Argentine sentioneé lu your renoren-

" @um to thds office dsted October 50.

Attachment
cos Ina eee a

366 /nvu : -
_Source: FSI 11/23.



ory

Be

‘ments in Ja:

SECRET" -

re: FLIGHT OF AAIS PERSOUNLG TO ARGENTIOA

An erticle woicn was published in the newspaper, "Zl Puedlo
Argentino", Monteviaeo, Uruguay, on September £5, 1944, el-
leged that numerous hezi officials were presentiy aiding in
Argeatina under assuned identities. Acong tae individuels

listed as. Yazi officials were Colone) Welter Osicckoug, wajor
Generel iigns Steusesenn, one Di: rick, Karloeinz Von bufais
end Gottfried Sandstede,

One of the allegations in this article wus to tae effect that
Major General cans Steudemunn wes stupping at tis "dotel Aden",
Calle Maiyu 1268, buenos Aires. de was said to be using felse
Argentine documents in the nane of Pedro Cassmenn. Investize-
tion at tne “cotel Adun" nas feilea to uncover aay record of
any individuel named Hans Steudenann or Pedro Cassmenn. No
record of tae issuance of documents in the neme Sf Pedro
Cessmann bes been located.

One_Dr. Frick, an engineer, director of the steel works at
Bochum, Gerzany, was alleged to ba living at the "Gernan Rid-
ing Club", Calle Ecneverria, beigruno, buenos Aires, and wes
said to visit the German Embassy. It was also cleined taut
he was the bearer of a wichtenstein passport in tie nane of
Eouerd Reden. Investigation et tne "Gerzan kiding Club" indi-

“Gates tnat Dr. Frick does not reside tiere at the present tine,

The German’ L=bassy in buenos Aires hes been closed since tae
severance cf relations between tae Argentine and German govern-

wary 1944 and the bubassy is guarded twenty-four
hours per dey by toe Buenos Aires Police Departueat. No record
of the passport or other documents”in the name of zduard Reden
hss been encountered. 5

: Inquiries in German circles in Buenos Aires have developed no

information regarding any..of the individguals;alleged by this
article to be seeking refuge in Argentine.

Information as to the original source of this article has not
been developed. It is believed that tne story was originated .
by the Communist Party in Argentina. It was reprinted in five
clandestine Comunist Party newspapers in Uruguay and Argentina.

i
\
|



* tM, Maurico Halperin
——

. G03 Ind, Att: Mise Flugger

& $66/mum

22 Wovenber 1943
Te Goorge Gately

Gottfried SANDS
Gottfried Sans’

e-Witn allazes
2, Godofreco Sandstede

The atteshed mesorandum from the FBI contains
Anfornmetion on subject, who vas one of the

Kazi functlonsrics in Argentine nentiored'in
your nomorandua to this office dated October W.

Information on the other hazi functionerica
mentioned in your cemorundum will be forwarded

» t& you a8 s00n eo roceivod frou the FEL.

Source: FAI 11/17



Hed : ; : 7 SEGRE [..  doveaber 17, 1944 °

ATIYRTEE SANNETIDE, with elinsed
Gottfried Sanstede, "Godotredo Sendstede

Gottfried Sandstede was born in Oldex sGoreany, on January 2s,
ere He: wos the son of Georg Sena tees end wes cerried “wo Fira t

Sandatede wes the subject of numerous reports enuneting from South Bae
Anerice in 1939, 1940, and 1941, due to the fect tnat he wes very I
active in Germen progegunde work. jie wes also u German esplonege agent.

confossed Geruen event who is presently in
y e euthorities, edvised thet ne met Serdstede
in berlin, Germany during tue last part of 1¥36. Candstede bac ape A
. parently lived in Argentina prior to tiis time. Von Seidlitz trev- i seeaeinaai
eled from Berlin to Buenos Aires, Argentine, with Sandstede erriv- ql
ing in buenos 4ires Decezber lb, 1l9d0. At this tine, both Von
Beiclitz end Sandsteco wore employees of tae Gernen Rellweys, and:
, Sanéstede was hecd-of tuis agency in Argentine. ey were uesocleted
petit together in the offices of the "Central uropesn Travel agency” ae
‘ which was a subsidicry of the Gerzan keliweys at Calle Florics 459, oe
Buenos Aires, Argontins, :

In 1939 Sandetede wie called to Germany, «pparently by tue Gerzan
Government. Von Seidlitz stated tuet he returned to Arsentina on
August £5, or August 26, 1929, wita tue title of Press and Propu-
gunde Attache of tne Gernun Lubessy, Buenvs Aires, Argentine.

With the outbresk of war between Great Eritein and Germany in Septen-
ber, 1909, Von Scoldiitz deterzined to return to Luropge, On tals oo-
casion he requested Saudstede to assist uin in obtcining pusscge,

but Sandstede edvised hin tiet it wos his duty to renain in Argentina,.
- Bince he could be of more vulue to Gerucny in tiat country by func~
tioning as an espionage agent then by enrolling in tne German Arzy,
Bandstede advised hin thet be, Sendstede, aad already been function=
ing es a Gernen agent for sone tine, ide was dotive in obtaining

.- Bhigping-inforsetion from Argontine narbors for forwarding to Gercany
H through the Gernan Giplouutic pouea and by cesns’o1 tae Lati Airline,

“:" Yon Seidlitz agreed to assist Sandatede in obtaining this type of
? Anforzation, and tuereafter he turned over a number of reporta to,
“the subject,

Another individual who was reported to bave worked es a Gernen agent

with Sandstede was ater Leng: a knovm Gercan agent who is presentiy
belicved to be in hiding eta Argentina. Lsnge was baie ai wita

Sandstede in tois Peale. as early us siuy, 1940. ree ey

One Hahn, an enployee of the D.N.b. (Ger=an News Agency) Buenos Aires, °
. Was reyorted to have worked under Sendstcce in obtuining general in- :
tellisence inforsation in seontiee ae the last pert of 1940. The



a During the middle of 1941 © report was received to tie effect tuct one

. “Sénagent working uncer bends

indivicual is not xnown.

extent of Halin'’s activities in this regerd hie not been clearly den
fined. on

In order to contect agente working wita hir, Sandstedo retained an
office at tue “Central iuropean Trevel Agency” end ne received a
salary of $3,250.00 moutaly tuere in aadition to hia selery us en
Attecne of tae Garnan Lebussy, There le sone indication taut tua
payuents wade to Sundstece ut tiie office of tue "Centrel Lurogeen
Travel Agency" wore payents for Glotributiun to proyagunas and ese
Pplonage agents.

In addition to his uotivities us an espionege agent, the subject wea
active in dirccting German propagende in Coloubia, veru, Brazil, end
Argentina, During. toe lest purv or 40, Sendstede 2180 mainteized
contact with itelian diplouetie orfivicls in Argentinu for propegenca
purposes.

a@ Gercen ciploustic ofrietal froz Elio
de Jdneiro, concerning tic nexoures to be ecoptca by tio Germen
Government in cuce tne United States entereé tae wer. It wes cgreed
et thet time tiut a pross cuspsi¢n would be under en in srezil re-
garding the bec treatnent eccorded to 38 Jaited St,
through the "Transocean lows Agency" a Tooeh Breziifen agenc
It was belLeved tunt this ling of propa, cords: would appeal to nm
ous Brazilians wita colored bicod, Tacsu plans were acceyted iz
Brazil and arrengenents wero wade to curry out the suse type of
Lt beageae an veru, Kexico, Bolivie ena otaer countrios wita & teres
dian population.

In Sane 1940, Sandstece neid @ ceeting in Buenos Aires, Argentine,

In addition, Sencstede sgresd to reLnforos tae Germen and Italien
influence in tuc Longshorenens Union in Argentiga.

On April 4, 194i, a number of prowinent Nazis in Argentina ere ree
ported to have held 4 mecting ot tae German Atuletic C1 Calle

Cuba, 2410, ee Aires, Argentina, Sandstede end nriom Voliberg,
who was nead of tne Nazi Party in Argentina, -ede speecues. Sanaa

On April 23, 1941, prominent Nazis frox ail parts-of Colombia nelé a
meeting in the upper floors of the "Aliiecen delde", Nanizales, Colowbla,
Sandstede was in cuarge of this xeeting end 1s reported to nave ear-
rived in Colombie, using an <cSswued nase and falas pusspyort. Tue sube

- Jects under discussion at this meoting tre not Xnowne

NMerner Loewer, Celle Pampe 2799, Buenos Aires, Argentinu, wae a Ger-
eds. Loever was described as a checist
for the German firm "Thyssen Lenetal Cozpany", Calle Paseo Colon 52,
Buenos Aires, Agentina. The neture of tne ‘duties performed by tats

Membership lists of the Fascist organizetion *Afirmecion Argentine",
Buenos Aires, reflect that Sandstede was ia of the lJesderg in that

orgenization, tae secre

u



On August 19, 1941, the special oomsittse of tne Chamber of Deputies
of Argentine oracrea tue sudjsct to ep,eer befora tact bocy for
questioning concerkisg bis astivitices Sundstede clait-ced tust ne
bee extrs territorial Figuts as @ rebult of nis position cs Press
end Propegenda Atticue oF tae Geruan “uesy, End ae refused to ap=
pear. The investigating committee tava toon tae view tart Inusauch
@3 he was stili a of tae "Centre. Lo>epean Trevel Agenoys trut
he mush eppear, end ao werrent was issued for hip errest.

On August 28, 1941, Sendstede Gepartes. from Argentina by Condor
Plene for Srezil, epparentiy in orcer te uvoid questioning. On
Seytender 4, 1921, ue lert Jrezil for Lurope by Leti plens.

Prior te bis departure frov. Argenbin Condstede instructed Wilkela.
vou Selélitz tu t Cuerey Vee Sui Teporting service whica
ad boon operetings Von Seldlitz sereee bo du sv, una Sendstuce
paid his, 12,000 Argentine pesos (g2st08-00) es an edvence for expen-
Gitures,

Sendstede also furnished Von Seidlitz the following nail drop to be
used for eajyionuge communications; Jarnick Ortner, Wiloelostresse 102,
Berlin, Gernany, Beer

Information recently developed in Argentina is to tne effeot thet
during September, 1942, Gencstede wes traveling for the Germen Govern-
pent in Sein und Portugel, The nature of tie work being perforned
by him taeve wae not discloced,

During August, 1543, one 260 Was arrostcd by Argentine
autcorities walle operating en unautsorized redio transmitter in
tne vicinity of Buenos Alrus. <mudeo is reportec to have been an
assooiate of Sandstede when the subject wos in Argentine. Apper-
eatly, tais stution wus simply an uneutcorized ucateur station and
not. a clandestine racio. trensuitter. ...

According to accounts published in the Germen langucee newspever
®Doutache La Plata Zeitung", Buehos Aircs, on Mey 11, and May 12

1944, Sandstede.was killed wile serving in on ar.ored grenadier..
regizent in tue Geruen Aruy ou the kxctera Front. Tne exeot aete
of ais deata wes not disolosed. ‘

” $t has been suggested by various sources tuct tue report of Sandg-

stede's death might possibly be part of a scnene to enable him to

ies return to Argontina under an assumed neue. No informetion is evall-

edle to show trout Sandstede is not in zact dead,

The descriztion of ‘the subject La es follows;



oo. CONFIDENTIAL

a

elt

. Thozas Dana, Lt. {$.g-)
Organication Chart ef derman Foreign Office

Eovexber.14,: 2034

“ Attached So es organization chart of the dorman Gee
Foretza Cffice. fhe material te.prepared from cortsin Pop Seerot -" * idea {
materia) whica bas teen confirmed frou other sources. A copy is !
Boing sont to 8. 1. Yea will note that i hee been dated back to a
ae + aly Jes, even thouch iseusd today. ‘ie duly putech is, of coures, : 3
‘ responsible for this. ‘

\ Heverer, since it to plroved to fesns amther chart areal ene
4m the not tee distant future, the 1.1.8. representstives have A 4
fndiested thet any criticlms, editions, or changss sill be peal aa
eppreciated. If you heve ony cugecstions, sill you kindly forvart
thea to tho writer es son as poosidlce



vs AWP/ovm

i

Lt. Bicharé Hartshorne
Sadadratilarae

Horace.&. Petors
i —

R&A Dogumonts

I would very much. apprecicte receiving. copies...
of the following R & 4 docunents for trons-_
mitteal to tie “BI for their retention:

R&A 20%
BR & & 2623 :

> Source: Marron 11/8



ik
QA GOHEIDENTIAL
Hr, Waurice Halyerin Ll Novenber 1944
3. G. Gate
X-2 iaeteer officer

oe Jorge Garreton CARLTON
Jorge Garreton GzkTON

it

Peer

Pursuant to your oral requsat of October 14

to Hr, Horace W, Peters, the information on

subject contained in the attacned mezorendun

wes furnished to us by the FAI.

Attaéunent

63 /nvm
Source: FBI 11/3



= fei Jorge Garreton Garreton, fercer Director General
: of the Division of Investigations at seatiago,

Caile, wes replaced by Colonel Labarce waen
Gerreton cane to the United States tor a visit
Guring July, 1944, While Gerreton hes returned
to Chile, be has not yot assumed tue dlrector-
eaip of the Division of Investigations, and it
bes been reliably reported trat ne ceperted on

ee Parsi Getober 20, 1944, for a six weeks& tour through- -

A out Letin Ancrioan cs the personal representetive

+ . - ef Prosidont Rios, It hes been suid taat Garreton

will return as Director of tae Division of Investi- ia

gations upon the cozpletion of this tripe :



i
i

pord ‘ i OFFICE OF steatedic

TO:

FROM:

sussect; Information on Ferscna in Bolivie

pee

ol ae
» INTEROFFICE MEMO .

i .

Yr. Horace Peters, X2 4 p DATE: 32 Cevober 1944

"A if . | .
vu KS
Maurice erin at is ’ :

I would: appreciate your sbtainin: whatever informtion you
can concerning the following persons ‘n Bolivias

Major Jorge Beuino, Director teneral of the Yaticnal 4
Police. : SHEE

2. Captain José Escotar, Chief of Police of La Paz. H

(or Costa), Chief of che President's

3. Major Funkerto Costs
Wiitery Household.

Major Antonio Ponce, ‘finister of Public Vorzs.
5. Lejor Sémundo Nogales, Minisver of Agriculture.

@rnet, possitle:Bolsrian-
go-between in alleged

rensom to Argentine

leaders, possibly to Argentine Foreign Minister Orlando

Peluffa.

«Is anything know stout any connections of any of these parsons
withe 7 : :

Mise:or Mrs. Luisa ueschwits ¢2

“st Ll. The "Military Lodge"?

The “ershal Santa Crus Lodge”?

The ailitery logge, “Ingavi"?

Is enything known ebout these orgesizations end their mutual
‘yelatienships?



peer areata Mani ee

‘. ioe d
(ia
ie re \
y yeieiar ie env esuiae
x° OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES Q. mn pe wang
*..
INTEROFFICE MEMO
¥O:' ° Mr. Eorace Peters, X2 reid DATE: 30 Getober 1944

FROM: Ur. Waurice Felperin s-

SUBJECT: Hari Sunctionaries in Argentinas.

oe An Arzentine opposition publication of 25 Septenber: claims
that the following Nezi functionaries are currently in Argentina
under acsized identities: “We would enpraciate any information ~.
_you may hove on the identities and activities of those persons,
in ‘Germany and enythirg you might. know sbout their: departure
from there...

1 Welter OSTSPKEI. commander of [ichter-
plene schcol in Werneucken, Germany." Wow uses false identity
as Theodor SCHYIMMT (cr SCHVINDT), born in Coronel Suérez,

Argentin

‘ 2. Major Genera tiene STELDZNAW, of the Luftwoffa Chiefs
of Staff... Hus false documonts:as Pedro -CASSMAMH, born in: Diamante...
Batre Rios Frovince, Argentint

3. Drs PRICK, enginoor and director of steel factory in
Hochum, Germany. Has Lichterstein passport in nene. of Eduard __

REDE é
4. EsrJhoint von DUFAIS, "S5.Sterdertendfuehrer” and radio=
telegreph expert. parece :

8. Cottfried SADSTEDR, former prose attache of the German
Bubassy in Auonos Aires, now reported buck in Argentine, although

» ‘Deutsche Le Pluta Zeiczunc reported ke hed been killed on Russian
, Frontey Bray 29, 4

k



h

\
Hr, Richard Hev:shorae.. 26 October 1944
”

Horace W. Poters
R& A Documents
-

The following is a list of R & A documents : i are
which would be of interest to tae Federal
Bureau of Investigation. I woulé appreciate
if very much if you would let me have copies
of tucee docunonts for transmittal to tuat

agency.
of weft
HEY pac {

2090
sss
RS24

tonne

. BRP/ovn
+ Source: Marron 9/16
Marron 9/23



io lomtas

eraroane romae ve 64 ces ane .
Office Memor. ndum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, !
To =; Mr. Peters eet DATE: 17 October 1944 \

FROM + evita, torn thant ft

SUBJECT:

This material is to be forwarded to the FBI.



renane poset be. 84 ie 5 oa

ne = a
Office Memorandum + wnrrep states GOVERNMENT
TO Mre:3ernard 4, Towell . DATE: & Oct. 1334

FROM :argoret (. Stawart WD Kr * g

Viet _ Lt. Georze 2. Young, Chief, Blosre:ideal Records
subject; ~~ Yateriel rejuestes in your aesorenda of 23 Septenfer 1344

In accordance with our teleshone canvarsation the

“..» “other day, we heve (or ere) sending the materiel
froa our fLles to the forli Trade Intelligence
Division of the State Departnent.

Attached are yorr lists which you asked that xe 7
return to you.

—
ee

i i

@ H



Lt. Raymond Deston
Horace W. Petera

R& A “oounents
—

The FSI would appreciate receiving
C.I.D. accessioned documents:

0759 C - tA-ISGo
90738 RNAS isso.
= 92087. C°
a+” 92003¢- ReA- L00e
90758 R- ed Ae IF SSH

peters/sim:ons
Bource: Herron orally,9/2}

WG kb teem

October 3, 1944

copies the folowing
Rech tH,
Reet alt
Beek aft

Beeel oper 7 7/¢



CONFIDENTIAE
i ieee

i Mr. Shoresa Head : Septender 26, 1846 eae
face Paoene Bam, Zt. (J.gs) USM. : 1

} Omsrchip of Stendt y Cia., 8.4.0. of Argentina :

\ oo a

ieee ie "|" " — Attached 29 the monoranium from John I. Hossll
: : ef the Borid Preto Intelligence Divisien of the State. a |
Bepartaent, chich I discussed vith your secretary recently. es H

dann/ctaizg



og : ia

+ Ideut. George Young
. Bernard 4. Toss}

Septeaber 23, 194%

Blographical data
erent

Thora are enclosed heremith liste of the uexbers of the cabinets
of three Zaropean countrics — Bugaria, France end fortuzal.

It would be appreciated .Lf. you would. prepare for. this:branch.a.:-
biozraptieal report on the individuals Listed in the enclosures,

siveestecsienie “” Please return theses original lists at the tine of forwarding your i
: reporto.

$

POSE LsHCLLAND Hue ie
SOUR: Keno fron Dept, of State fron Fred, iyon dated 9/21/kb



Septerber 23, 1944

esata f There is enclosed herewith list of four individuals located in
‘ Spain, Turkey, Italy. and France,

It would be appreciated if you would presare for this branch a
pera biograzhicel rezert on the individuals listed in tne enclosure,

With regard to Louis 00!

exphasia were pot on hii

ST, dt vould be appreciated if special
tivities ia Kexico.

TOPELL HOLLAND
Kexe frot Frodx. Lyen 9/2/Lb



Lt. Raymond Dewi!.on. | Sept. 19, 19kh,
Horace ¥. Peters if

R & A Doouments

The FBI would appreciate receiviny a coy ¥ of the following
C.1.D. accegsioned docurent:

Bee ee S - QUA- 232¥ t

. Bourses Marron, 9/36 Be.

- peters/sinzons



fn

Mr. Richard Hart: Septenber 18, 1944

Horace:W.. Peters:
K-2 Brench
Field .otes On The Japanese In Latin America

With the approval of urs “aurice Haiperin, I heve-lent to
the U.S. Ofrice of Censors:ip and the 7.3.1. far a arcrt peridl
: of tine the following docunent: :

R&h Nc. 791, "Field Notes On The Japanese In Latin
Anorica’, dated Uarch 26, 1943, copy No. 2.



9 : Rea
(FP

Lt. Raymond Deston f~ ;

Horace W. Peters

Sept. 14, 194%

R & A Dooments
—e

The Federal Bureau of Investigation would appreciate re-
: soiving a copy of the following C.I,D. accessioned docue
‘ nents;

897700 — cet (YAS
ag643.c — Red C/o .
29285 R — Rick M/E

esgic — te
\697666 —- OK

Fl

Source: Karron necting, 9/13
poters/simzons



SE EDRET

Soptecbor 7, 1966

BEMORANDUH FOR Jens Camprely fl er CatA

SES? Batasia Talophase Syatex.

AS the request of Caoteia Rabors Bushis ef cur
Bow York Office vo are traasuitting to you the follevizg
material ex ths Batavia Pelenhone Syetont

1
a
3,
a

Flen of Sntevie Byeten

Sshane of Cable Connsstions

Schema of trunks to Botrict Offiess
Information ebjuined free Nothorteste Rast
Indica Goverment, ineluling four photegranhs.



Dre Fim, Ly Langer : August 31, 1964
Bornand A, towel
Copies of restricted despatehna Sos. 718 & 736

‘The State Departcent has given us copies of the above desputches
foraarded fran to Labaoey at Hoscow, wits te request that
thegs deszatches and enclosulve be forwarded to you.

CCLELL£ HONLAKD
KURCS1 State Dopte 6/29
Bette vislt



Lt. Raymond Deston : August 22, 1944
Horace ¥. Peters
B& A Documents

Tho FBI would appreciate receiving a copy of the following
0.1.0. accossioned documents:

82709 8
79090 8

Source:
EsP/eats



t

August 14, 1944

An oral request was made
uments:

79803
172206
72428
72396
72363.
61399
61351

Ta

OvanHnUo

to Mr. Deston for the following doce

y



i :
: CONFIDENT ag

| Lt. Raynond Deston Nt dh. Us August 11, 1944
Cae forsee ¥, Peters

}

ae

_L& & Docuzents

The PBX would appreciate recoiving @ copy of the following C.J.Ds ?

: accesoioned docunents 4 :

: 158 R |
fe

: |

i PEPET HOLA?

7 ScWeT7y Marron reeting 6/11 t :



t
veh

PAT TA
aver Ee

Lt. Raynond boutos y August ¢, 1944

Yioraco W. Peters

The yor would aproreciate receiving & copy of the followe
Ang CeleDe accessioned docunents:

68099 S
67238 C :
81066 C wees . on agence

cota ar > BT RBG g

€leu2 S



OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

INTEROFFICE MEMO w
i
TOs Mr. H.W. Petors 4 PO DATE: 31 July 1944

FROM: W. Boreh, Latin seareal oh Division tp Bera
PSE career

SUBJECT: ‘Information fron the FBI

Enclosed are two lists, one of organizations, the other

“*. of dndividuale. We should appreciate having the FBI search its
files and forward to us as quickly ae possible any inforzation it
may have on thon.



: a te RESTRICTED’;
OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES :
WASHINGTON, D.C, (25)

22 duly 1944

Foreign Funds Control
Troasury Departnent : :
Washington, ¥, C.

Attention: Yr. 0. 4, Schridt, Director
Mr, Donald Kehl -
» Jerome Sachs

. Gentlenen:

I an transaitting herewith three copies of Rk &

Ho, 2320, “Italian Insurances", prepared in the Office of

Strategic Services ari classified us restricted.

Sincprely yours,

Willian &¢ ator
Chier, Rasoarchan

vied br ety + anplysis ores

> Bnetosures (3)
ae 2, (Copy los. 2,3,4) -



ae Vieo Procicent ané

Serva IFe. :

Supplosen ease our caved to Zou of a ot valestia Fe oR eo arove

Joo and is a Patrolecs ©
teat engineering froa 2
Fetrolgca eactnoer wit!
yp 8S processor of
frox 1915 to 1910,

Valentin EH, Carfiag te now atrector of the Cities Sere
vice, GO ell St., Hew York City. He also holes the follows
ing positions:

¥iee Prosi¢ent and

D : +
réoin 1907, ‘Sarfies norved ag

JeJe Sureay of Tites fren 1t15 to
Petroleum engincer

reetor of the Gulf Coast Compe,
sector of the Nezkean Nastern
CLL Cos, si redtor : xas Fetrolerd
and Agpialt Co.,. Director of tie iational Aall-ays-~
ef “oxloo, vieo® predic: t and 2
Gordo fPetroleun sors Preeident
the loutussn fuel at ning Co., Viee President
and virestor oF Tassico, Texas ‘otroleua Corp. «-

_ Gartias 43 a meaber of the fol owing associntilons:

“gemrican Svctesy of Civil Encincors, scerican
of Heonanical suszinserc, american Institute of

and “Nebworclozioal -~zineering, Anerican Asnocietion
Cpe Geolosiat and soeloty of seononie deol-
ogist.

oloty

Valentin 3. Carfias {s the author of a treatise entitled,

“(Petroleum nesources of the sorld", and has rritten papers

and reports on the geology and teohnolozy of petroleune
P/oate
ours ‘Marron orally ano

SECRET



“Collection Agency - China, Bursa, India.

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES
WASHINGTON, D.C.

7 daly 1944

MEMORAFZUM TO: ur. Horace Feters : :

In reply to your memorandum of June 22nd, we are fore
warding copios of documents nos. 74762 and 73021 for the
F. B. I. #e are not in @ position to eupzly a copy cf
7334} because this originates in the Joint Intelligence : ;

I suggest you contact Lt. Col. Riddell for a copy
of this.

R Wesker at

Lieutenant Pav USNR
Chief, Central Information Diviaion



_ BT years old, and reside in the Usd. fron 1925 to 192%.

e0UaGSs “Narrou telephone conversation 7/5 &7/7

ur, Sorah peh- Tuly 7, 1944
Noraco Ws Poterg Lo

Batlle Corvi, gaitlio Cory! Jre
Antonio “gute urug
Valentin i. Sortie

Regerdinn your requeot for inforsation on fAntonto
Saata Cruz, the INI advises they do nov have a ands of
the individual,

The Luresu advises they are still oheoking for infore
sation on Valentin 2. Sarfiase

Concerning Unilio Cervi and his eon of Mexico City,
a prheeactaeg io a report fron the @I on those individe
3

oe

"The luroeu has a record of an caitte Se Corvi sho
was head of the Ulnarquiata movement in ‘‘exioo, and was
responsible for publication of a Sinarguista ranphlote
Cervi wos born in Tux VYorsoruz, sxico and now ree
ices at Orzinba Ql, Mexico CIty. “Cervi is a lawyer

The fhles of the bureau reveal that Enilio Cervi-
g fatror of Enilto S, Sarvi abdeve, 19 epproxi-—
nately 77 yoara od, He bas been seen attending a xeet~
ne Sa dS Espana", a soolety ehose members are
Known to be pro-Franoo... thle society propasanéized for
he-Spanish Falange and disbanded shortly after the Uste
entered the Sar,"

_FeP/oato : mae



“OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES
i WASHINGTON, D. C.

29 dune 19h,
MELORANDUU TO: Mr. Horace Poters e :
FROM: Lieutenant Raynond Destoae USKR RD
SUBJECT: * Request for docuerts for F.B.I.

In answer to your mexorand:m of 22 June, I an
transmitting herewith documents NOS. 75252 and 75061

which are to be forwarded to the F.E.I.



JU :
Lt. Raynoné Reston » June 28, 1944

Fomn0e te Fotera_.

R& A Docunonts {
—

WN
tOK Tag
hs beg

would an-reciate receiving w oopy of the
following RE A doouuente:

o 741 C
+ 76702 ON
9 3021 CP FP, He

Aocession }
Accession
Ascessicn i

Doves: karron orally, 6/21/44 ee

EXP/oats

3
3

;
|
!
|
Aa
t



Ze Jt ge 7

Lt. Rayaoné Deston

: 7 Horace Wi, Peters ; : Set 2
. —, : -
ee R & A Doounents

The FBI would aporeciate receiving & copy of the
following Kk & A doonsents:

Accession NOs 75252 g Sareea .
e eect Aocession ol B. :



3 Ca "A couripe tian Sy ase See
OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

WASHINGTON, 0.C, + : oT
SEI _ : oy

4 December 1944

: : 70: . °° Me J. George Gately 4

Liaison Officer
1 aw i
ane FROM: Be Ae Kracko, dry 1X
Var BeMeMartion i i

SUBJECT s Request for interview with FBI for

Corporal Edvard J. Donlon, of ‘the Javen
Section, would like in connection with his work on a
CAD Guide, R&A #2561, to contact the persons in 72i
mcrt interested to discuss the following subjects:

1. To detormine if there is any information ; :
available-in the FBI re the Japenese Civil : :

\ Police Syaten, its organization and ad- fees ee
ninistration.

2. To disouss the problems of police administration
in general, without special reference to Japan.

It would be apreciated if the proper liaison
ovald be. established,



© te My : co aie!

¥. Borah. : t |, bugust 19, 194%
Horace W. Peters :

Organizations in Hoxico
Individuals Residing in Mexico

Attached 48 a report from the FBI containing. inforna-...-
tion on orgunizationa in Mexico und individuals residing. in
Mexico, which is in response to your request of July 3lat.

HyP/BH/oate
Vile copy routed to Flugger

i
}
i



ebover Los Dorados, Gold Shirts end Drom Si
» first founded in 193L<1735, and weg headed by &

and vao dnvolved in tho Gelilio revelt. Tile Party often clashed with
oranizod labr and in tho jour 1935 thore woru two aried:ascaults at tho
offices of the Camunivt Party. cb-ut ten persons dled as a result of th
conflicts tbe folloring year, ub-at tho eiddie of 1936, President Cardenas
ordered this Party to be dissolved end fras thoroon, hen it did function, 4
did so as-an 4lloral ogeret party. . Colonel i i associated
with tho orcaniuatdon. It his boon used a8 a
ganda und {a cald to have Yasoist syupathios.

VANGUATD IA NAC:

NALIC:

This organization edvocates neutrality for vexico, This thesis,
however, 1s not genuine, as it has been advanced os purely Gernan propazandas
The orguniser of the Party is Adol! Leon Ussorio who was on the pay rell of

‘the Gercan Legation as a propaganda azent. It clso has an apnarent anti-Jewish
policy and seaks to projudice the !exicans against the influence of the United
States. It is in close contact with the Partido de Accion “acicasl, represent
ing it as a shock or action force. iitler has bean openly praized by officials
of the Vanguardia Naclonalista for tis so-called great accaxplivhments in Curopes

FARTIDO Di. ACCION,

eARS eee ¥
‘ Yanuel Yozes Horin is President of this Party. This Porty 1s com
posed chiefly of tho professional anz businers clements of Lexico and is said
to often fumish the intellectual lescerchip fer ‘be Sinarquista croup. It
kas boon known in the post to bo allevedly anii~.xis, anti—Communist, and
opposed to ‘nerican influence in Vexican affalrse iiowover, t hag also bean
known to ranifest certiin syrpathies in the direction of fascism, The organ
ization gives considerable study to rural develo:rents, social probleas, and
general quostions of econonie ond political policios affecting tne Yextean ..-
nations :

Feo R ee Eee : A

Fron the infor-ation furnished, {t has not been possible to establish
the identity of the following organisations :
Confederacion de la Clase Vedia

Centro Patronal dal Distrize Foderal

Centro Patronal de la Conarca Lagunera
Partido Soclal Daxocrata Nexicano |
Asociacion Espanola Anticccunista y Antijudia
duventudes Nacionalistas Lexicanas

Union (Confederation?) ‘iacional de Voteranos de ln Bavoluedon
Union Racional Lextcana de Yucatan
Partido Hecional Civiliste Seer
Comite .Promiiaza :
Voviiento Unificador Nacionalista



HARTA ALPAROG : ;

A Maria Alfaro (De kata) is listed as a Cosmmiet and holds tho position
of Assistant Sooretery of the sie (nion. This porgon is also

a direoter of tha 4se-ela “tlantict.
» CARIES CALTROS
The above person is associated with the Partido Anti-iossectionista aA
Aeoion, This indivicwl is an elderly wonan praysician and has beea active (Ui
in different Fasoist groups.
} ANTONIO F. ESCOBARG
The above Antonio F, Zscohar was a menber of the "Los Dorados”
crganization in Mexico City. He is roputed to have boon one of the organisers
of "Los Dorados" and indications arc that his sentixents are pro-Fascist. He
@lso is associated with the "Inion Naclonalist Mexicacs.” i

¥ GUSTAVO BA:m2 DE SICTLUs

This porson is said to have bee: tho leador of the Mexican Fasoist a
Party which he started to organize in Novesber 1942 in Jalepa, Veracruz, Maxico. 5
At one tino this orgacisation was roported to nave hed four hundred twonty brazchea. A
In profoasional life this indivi::al wna an engincor. H

{DIEGO ARFOAS GURUATe as

The ebove person io reportedly assoolated with the Moxie City ee
periodical, "21 Huevo Dias” alse "Sl Hozdre Libre," s Cerzean subsidised nowe= /(
paper, Tno magagine, "il Nusvo Dla,” io . propaganda instrument of the liasis \_-
in Mexloo, and its publication was suspundsd. ‘|

GRARRAL RICOLAS RODRIGUEZ: _» . a“ ie f

This porson was one of the founders of the old "Los Dorados”™

organization (also ‘imow: as the “Sold Shirts") which was subsequently. outlawed

by the Kextcan Covernnent and newer lopully reinstated. Ite o7f-scring was the
_ “heefan Revoluotonaria.Yexicanteta." ‘he General wns vory anti-Jewish and t

his organization ma used to dissizulate anti-Semitic literature. General ‘—"

waa alco involved in t-: Codillo evolution and is roported to coma dire:tly

under Gernan influence. General Rodrigues died in 1542. Dry Ay De Cook of

.laredo, Toxae, ia said to have bean associated with General Micolas Acdrigues.

: J rranctsco CAYOU ¥_ Cosa.

i Franoisos Cayon y Cos is reported to be a close friend of Ibanes Serrano, _

@ high ranking confidant of General Fra:co of Spain and a nenber of the Falance
of the "Liza do Hispanided Ibero Anoricana.” This <rcanisation is to be found fart)
all Centra} Anorican countries. It 1s sur orted to he a civic end c:ltural i
organization for the purpose of defending Hexiosn Hispanic cult:ro end the

promotion o° the unian of Spanish-American people, This organization is financially

i
1

i
I



4 - a
supported ty Teanot Serrano and cons under t$taflurnce of Falenclst idoolozy.
This peracn fe likewise & (her 6° the rrozacazdn Seviee of tho spaaioh Felaage.

7 qxamuo vTzc waa . : Aa ia

Tals porcon say be identical with a Cabino Vizcarro tho 1s an agsoctete
of Cernsa scents end © responsible official in veneral saa'e esxpaign crganizations... |

‘

Tata poroon say be id-ntical with Zenoreto Carrasco who was in charge ~!

POs.

eotivitics and « lender of the dozican-Fasoist Ferty witch was dissolved by
the Cardenas Governzente A Loon Cescrio, Mfasra 3, Moxico City, mey be identical i
with Adolo Leon Oviord at the saxe address. : a

of. finanoins and poring of a2) propagauda operations isr the KerlCommmist :
eepicnago setup in Hexico during 1341 prior to the Sersan-auspian Yor. oc
} fd EBom essoetae i
: ie : Ny i
Tals person tp reported to have booa ax orzestzor of Mezican-liasi = | / |
I.

ROBRHT CASZTEDOr : : 4 1 t

i A Roberto Cerriodo Rosales living at Seize Morte 402, Nexicu City, ts
} uaeeee to be syapatnetic with the “Aco{on Kational."”

GRUERAL STLALIO GUTS

: A person bearing the naze of Eulalts Gutierres was forcorly prosidest . 4
i ef tho Grant Liberal Zerty in Liexioc, It is resorted that Gonoral Jutierres y
: was ascociated with Gen-ral Antonio S$, Villareal in « comtenplated revolutionary i |
novemnt. Generel Gutisrres unas he Troviclczal President of “axico, and { i

: instigated revoluticrary astivity at Durango oa arch 16, 122: eee eee
1

Caves ore

Tals: porsa: is’ ths leader of the TAsofon Hational® orcanization which
is rogarded ag one of tho nost ixcortant oppositicnist groups in Koxico. It was
i.” ffownded {9 1933 asia xcz-politioal organization, end ite object was to lay the
bssis for « “new spirit.al rebirth of oitirezship." It elains a -esbership of
forty thousand. Itvmain strensth is to be fomd anong the professioual and
business won of Mexico. Herin is reported to co & political ac-iscr of Ibaner
Serr

aad waa at one ting a menber of th: "Council of the Hiepanidad oe ft Y

Suificiont infornaticn wma lacking to establish # record on the
g individualet Juan B. Harzol, Orlando Lerrera egsel, Mnric:e Garcis”

» General Daniel 2i eel tuchoy General 2 Miguel Ze



Lte Baynand Deston
Horace f. Potera

_ eum
Guia eed bi

Tho Federtl Bureau of Investiguticn wuld a jractate

8 oupy of the Follawing Hie diounsnts

Aeoossivn No. 63065

THt/on
3 eeeeaeaea REQUESTED B's Merron vrally ¢/o

:
!
ao
i



cua 10, 1944

f ‘Tho Poderal Bureau of Inveatigation wuld appreciate Ay
i, heving a ‘copy of the follaving BAA docusenter
r 5 i :
: Accoseion Boe 65847 6 rae i
Aeovoaion Boe 72528 ¢ _
- i :
: J

GERRA Herron orally 60/44



e

i

as
ai

}

12-1220"

S

"- MRMURAEDUH POR ifr. Os Darein Marron
ee

SUBJECT: B 4 A Docussnt Yo. 2177, copy Munber' 6 -

Tho attached docusent was transal:
_ request of Br. Willian L. Langer af tao R &

&
pe
F
fc



: ew & tee be

Ur. Haurice Hayorta fH Lay 16, 1944

Wa would greatly appreciate roceiving whatever information
you havo. aveflable on ths Canso Harrison Affair, which involves
the subject Ladividuala.

nih wae



Lu SOLS ~ 81s

t : OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

ECReL

INTEROFFICE MEMO

H
at

TO; Mr. Horace Peters

FROM: Yaurice Salperin Mu. H A

an / DATE: 16 May 1944
vf

H Ee

: SUBJECT: R&A Hoo 2188

Attached ia information requested orally
: by you from Mrs Borah and destined for Mr. Caccose
in the Office of Censorshipe For the purposes of

our records, would you Kindly send us a written H
request for inforsation om the Cuneo Harrison

matter?



=

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

« INTEROFFICE MEMO
Hatt

Miss it~ & May 1944

Charlotte = Bmy

Enclosed you will find wrat little infcrnation

we have on Emminuel Rosen. I hope it will be of sone

help te you.

a Sea esl ee!



sigaticn world aspreeiate ’

RA decumsnts
(oeserarraiated

A

——
Peters

Aaseselon Ho. 66038 8

Tho: Fotored. Pureen of
in; 8 copy of tho following

Joby Bayscad Deaton
Korsoo i.

hay.



April 27, 1944

Till you ploase check your recorda against the
nee of Oskar Leage,:and forvard any materialyou may have =

ext tens? oo

Be ie a Polish-born professor from the University : |
ef Ghicago. Fe fe now visiting at Hocesw, reportedly to leara at
the character end aing of the Polish Amy. ae

éuan/eretg
Seareer Uews:ecer olicping

» BLY. Tizes April 20,1966
Nexo te Murphy Apr. 27,1964



april 27, 184

Received fran Bernard A, Towel, 0S3,.two rolls of
nicrofilm containing State Departuent questionnaires
cacpleted by Azericens repatriated on the Gripsholm
which arrived in the United States April 6, 1944.



4 /2bfids

secy
3 CORVERSATION —-/LT, DESTON'& B. A. TOWELL

» Patrick

Lt, Deston's secretary is checking to see if the State
Departnent has given 033 a report subritted by Patrick Lepaitre.
She will advise us.

ol leTon', tatled’ poet % eaud Khir pod
: ANY Pm tate haus
he [lic pnade 8 lee. afta hae brteral am Zhe ChenZe

\

Oe . PPD AST Done Raid
} Gee A Gat



Pay. . hs

ey ay ;

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES |

INTEROFFICE MEMO.

TO: Mr. Poters

on rs
*) 4 i
FROM. Lt.. Paymon't Deston. v a ca <i

Chief, ContreY Information Division
‘SUBJECT:

DATE. 26 April 1944

Tam attaching @ photostated copy of CID document oumbor 64887 which
you requested. Thie is being sent to ycu on @ permanont charge.



Lt. Rayaond Dhatin -
Horace 8. Peters

ie —
Or; sation Bock ef the Zasi Party. .

I em infcread by a highly reliable source that the Hast
Areeh-cis 7 os . Party publiehsd @ book entitled "Orgenisation Boek of Tho
Hest Party", circulation of which waa restricted to Party
officials caly.

It io keom that ceveral apensies in Washington have
epics of this bouz ani I am wontoring if you havo a copy in
your éZisien thich could be mado available to us far examine
tone

EnP/en
Buy heal Ssort

Le pnb
fl | Mth; i
be



! 4/20 area 4 leg

i RE: C.%.5- Hos. 65057 $ and 64887 C ees >

i Mr. Peters discussed the matter of the two C.I.D. documents |

J requested by Marron with Lt. Iietin ard was advised, later

Ried during ths day, that tho former dooument was an SI document

and would have to te requested from Belin wdor-dissenination
Ho. A 28984, The latter docurent is out but a photestat

will bo mde fur Merron.



053 Ext. 520
b/20/e4 TELEMIOW CONVERSATION BYT=T5M LT, DUSTIN's SECRETARY/(B & A)

AND B, A, TOWZLL

oe Ut, Dustin's seerctary advised wo that interrogeticns of passengers
Fe i returning on the Gripshola, Larch 4, wore not in X&% A files but a
At wae possible that. the Foreign Axperts Group in ties Tork might’ |
have those interrogations, She is contecting Sew Tork oni will
advise, : ee 7!

- Repuend: pmernee i
Sou new’ 9 WEE



a
4

od

cur knowledge no other place in Africa.

Rnsicn P. G. April 15, 19bb ’
Bernard=A, fowell. . oe

Pystehtower® publication

Confirming our telephone conversation of today, I am
writing this rcsoranduz requesting that you inquire dise
creetly in order to cover the souree of thie rezuest as o
being from 033 us to whother a joumal entitled “iatehtowor’, ear
poblication of ths religious scet ef Jehovah's nitnessos, H
is printed in Proneh or in any native 4frican language. H
Copies of this journal have been seen in West Africa but to : |

|

It hao been suggested that « oatalog of all Jehovah's

. Witresses publications might be secured from the Watchtower H

Tract end Bible Society, Brooklyn, 8. Y. However, as you
guggested, I believe the Library of Guagress would be the os
best source,

TORELLSROLLAED

Sottz: Inforcestion tn IN 723F
Requested by Sraastod

.
ff 4

fei



te

tr. Willien L. Langer
ee

Horace H. Petorg. -
Liaison geatioa
Politicel Situation in Bioily

‘Tho atteshed Hmorendus relating to the political eituaticn
in Bioily fo trensaitted.te.you as on X=2. by-product...

Aetectzont

BURERs elalZe : e
i? ps :



Br, Wm, L. Langer, R&A : March hy 19h
Vor Pistoriar ieserde Seetion i
fernard Ae Tool

gnop Shote of Bagnmakt and Tentetn

" Enelosed are the above subjcot photographs, o
~?  Yetler ef tranacittal from the far Depart=ont, adjutant :
General's Office, ami the original cammnication fraa the
Gender of these snap shots,

Hl

: Ther pnotes are sent te you for your files, and |
&¢ would. be appreciated ££ you would wite Lr, Bark Ae LePorte be
eohnowledging ressipbe i

Leticr fir! Barch LQ’. -
froa Adjutant Gentle Gf=i0ee and (25)
rheturess



:
i
i
H

riroare rams 10.8

2995S) - =:

“s SECRET

? Off Memorandum « UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT —*.
TO =: Ure Horace Peters {SI) DATE: 23 February 1944

FROM =: Stonloy Pe Lovell

SUBJECT: Secret Message Techniques

This Branch ie ergaged in a survey of the above sublect, including
secret inks, Obviously, the first thing we want isa survey of the
present state of the art. We have canvassed erevy ixterested
agency except the 732.

-.. We hava, on 22 Febriery 1944, shown our devicos and sabotage ‘
weapone to Mossrs. Coffoy, Flanagan and Parsons of the FBI. Those ;
> gentlemen suggested that an official request from yc: for entres
to their laboratory on the above subject of secret inka, ete.,
would be well received.

@ chemist and ink export of international repute end for security
reasons works entirely in a secret laboratory in Rochewter, ".Y.

i

The study of this subject is in the hands of oie mau saly. He is i
A :

}

It is euggested thet opening this subject to our appotntes will
not be entirely a gift on the part of the Bureau to as, but thet
highly interesting information will therety be mads available to -
the FBI laboratory. 2

Unfortunately, sped is very necessary to prevent duplication of
effort, end I would appreciate a high priority acticn on the above
request.

{
:!
4
|

y
Stanley P. Lovell, Director
Research ee ae

phe a



no cgeiasisseieasentaaseee

oo

» PS, Bas:
/\ ; SSHs, Julius

Miso Barvare Poole Mareh 8, 1946

Horace W. Peters

We would appreciate: any infornation you have,in additon
to that alreedy turned over Ly you to I-2,rogerding the
following individuals,all of whom are believed to be in a
Coyiacy exd fave past or presect ounneotions with the Hast

eS

° BOPPMH, Fotarieh

BRVESEN'R, Wilholm

Me Hx

7 Gee Ulrich

putdee#

: /
CONFIDENTIAL,

2 1G
a



2/15/44

THAPHONE CORVENSATION BETWEEN UR. PETERS AND DR. S”AULEY. LOVELL

Mr. Lovell intieated thet his primary pur;ose in wanting to
go to FBI would be to explore. He wanted to cive them souc
techniques of SO work against industry which kave various
advantages over many techniques, yet are very simple. Lovell
stated tris:pertained to activities against Azcricen industry.
Lovell stated he had an arsenal of weapons which he was poing
to ahew Friday at the Merylend Research Lab in Area Fe

Ur. Peters aszed if they could provide trmsportation for
Hoover to this show, to which Lovell replied they could note
He added it was only 12 alles. Mr. Peters asked him if ke
kcew when the meeting on Priday was. Lovell statag be did
not know the ezact time. Lovell added he would/feveF did
not come to the show, that 4t was being put, on for Theater
Officers, and that 1t would probably be a repeat performance
for anyone on Ecover's level. Yr. Potors said he would tell
Hovyt, that Lovell wanted to come to hia office erd explain
‘the techniques... Wr. Lovell said he thought he had some new
informatica that FBI didn't know atovt. Lovell said he
would like to go into the name subject later. Lovoll said

he could carry @ satchel full of devices but he did not

want to-do thats Mr. Peters said ho would soe Tenn tomorrow.
Lovell asked for an appointment with FBI for tomorrow
afternoune : ;

: ’ : BAe 1S 944

i
t
!

i
b
|



by ep
_ My

Lts Cole Preston ae ke “f a Jawery 6, 196

5 : Worsce M Peters

Mhotostat asterial relating to Geruan Police Cowmnlentions system

ae -  Attaated are the photostate of the Kashrichtansittel Dor ele
Ordnupyspaliset. Z
The UeSs Office of Consorship has advisod us that thoy

i

!

: if

have uo edjection to the use of this material az yuu Lave cuggestod 5 of
provided that it fo cot disseatasted to the public gezerally. |
i

: ie would ep reotete the retura of the photostate whom you
. 4) neve Piobahed with theme

ATIACINES



ran

: OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES CONFIDENTIAR |
: INTEROFFKE MEMO ee if 4 L :
H ‘to: Horace W. Peters pate, 31 December 1943 :

2046 que Building

FROM: Lt. Col. Preston E. James
818 Annex erated
‘SUBJECT: Photostat Material Relating to haa Police

Commmnications Systea

In accordance with our telephone conversation of yes-
terday, I am returning the photostats of the Nachricitenmittel
Der Crdnungspolizei in order that you may Getermine the
‘classification.

It would be appreciated if you could return this docu-
ment to me within the next two or three days as it is
urgently needed in connection with a report.on which we
are now working.

ace . : : Assistant Chief
nee Europe-Africa Division


feed 7

" OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

‘

INTEROFFICE MEMO.

Horace W. Peters DAT: 29 Nove 1943
2046 Que Building
Lt. Col. Preston E. James
818 snnex-
a Photostat material relating to German Police
Communications system

BR?

c

i The photostats of the Nachrichtenmittel Der
i Ordnungspolizei, which you forwarded to Dr. Langer
i on 22 October, have now been received in this office.

Although your memorandum is stamped secret, the
i photostats are apparently unclassified. We should

: . like to kmow if this means that the photostated material
is free, as we wish to include material from this docu-
ment in a restricted publication.

/
ey Neral

Ee WO

". Assistant Chief t
Europe-sfrica Division _



spe Se Cathe, CID Bor. 12, 189

Joa Brennen

Requests Far 512 Deswente

Te would be greatly approciat<4 ££ you vould arrange for ;
Wy. Har.ce 5, Petere, Lialson Officer, te recalve GID Decucamta, ee
upen requacte

‘The Fepieate for necessary comante uill be made through
Vise. Veolellan,



Octudsr 22, 1945 a

Wie
4 “ MESORANOW Por Dr. Netter Le Langer

i
i
i
\
i

BUBECTs | Photsotet Meturial relating to Cerzen Polica
Comrinloation system

Prose Xe2: Branah * }

J Tho subject cmterial wee picked up ty Sritish Imperiel
Genacrship ta Trinidad. fe suuld anprsofate it very muok
Af you would arrezre to have theee documents translated, sot
only for the ue of sour Erasoh,. tit xleo fr X-2, St, SC end

othora that ray bo futeresvece year inforsation, the

esc ee

du this materiel mud that they are cut interested fa ite
Howsver, it hae cosurred to us that, aside from the technie-
nl capects, it nay cuntaly acco inforeation of rtratenie values

“ ptteohaent (1)

norfeh..°



OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

INTEROFFICE MEMO”

TO: Ur. Horace W. Peters DATE: Auzust 5, 195
FROM: G.W,. Cottrell Gyre

SUBJECT:

T attach a copy of the General Order, no. 9, supp. 5,
fienued June 10, 1945, eatablishinz the Biographical Records
Section. As I explained over the telephone, the term ‘SI’ as

used in the Order and appendix was designed to include X-2.

SECRET...



Lisy $

SIBUTCT: Blograchice) Records,

le There te hereby esteblished in the Central Information
Divicion-of the Keseurch and Anclysia Branch of the Cffice of

Btrategio dervicos a aucticn to be known as Biographical Rocords.

2, Blorraphicel Records ehall be ressonsible for the
ayotonstie collection and rocordine of Inforsetion about ferei¢n
persona abroad ant in thie country who nay be of interest for pure
posce of paychologicul warfare und ailitary ocoupation, and
generally for tte properation of such dossiers on persons es say bo
required by the various eperations of 05%,

8, Biographical Reoords shall nake tho fullest possible

use of oxiating facilities of OSS in the collestion and evaluation
of the eaterisl.

4, AY. vans inforestion now available in or horeafter-
aequired by the:zevoral. brenchos ‘of OSS’ shall be systaastically mado
avatleblo to the now section. The procedure to be followsd with re-
spect to SI material {0 set forth in Appondix "A* attached.

6. The perconnel and fils of the-Georrazhis Index of
Porson in 31 are heroby transferred to the now coctions

6. The personne} and budgetary roquirensnts for the eeotion
are hereby approved as subaitteds -



Appendix "A"

Relationship of SI Material to Blographicai Recorda

Tho following procedure shall be followed in handling
biographical date derived froa SI sources:

1, SI mcterial (other than operations] ond strictly CB
records and material) 19 to bo made avsileblo to OR. Unless
authorired to include such data, BR will omit any reference to
eubveraive or undercover activitiag of individusls, except where
an individual ies a notorious arent, or otherwise te eo conducting
hie activities that sscrecyrespooting them 19 useless or unnoces=
sory.

&, Where an individuald is of intercat to BR, and to also
engaged in undercover cotivities, BR nay record straight biographical
data and may also indicates .

(a) the subject's political views - e.g., "Pro-Ally® =
"Pro-Axiay®

(>) hie trustworthiness = e.g., “oan be trusted” =
®eannot be trusted;” and

(c) bie willingness or unwillingness ta oocperate,
or similar phrases, provided the corsents ars of a type in general
use in the recorde and are not caloulated to suggest undercover
activities.

B. In.escos whore material regarding sutvorsives ie made °
available from S1, an appropriate punch should be nade in IB4 cards
to indicate tho individualg is under observation ty 81.

4. ER shall be free to record eny duta on subversive ree

“ aotivities received froa sources other than SI, and shall arrange

to make such data available to SI.

& In certain casos whore evidence of the subversive
activitios of individuals would be enbarrasaing to CE operations,
the evidence should be suppressed upon the request of CE.

SECRET

j
4
4
}



Yo grontly ap-reaizte the photosteta you sont us roomy
ef yoar cam! file on tho Union of Soth Asrtose

Tan civiced by Ure Solferbeld in ow Mew York office that
we have no‘. received froa you any material relating to the folie

ing cowitriess
Arabia Astvia
Albania Iron
ALchanisten iraq
Grvcco piedapascar
Cyprva 7 IoAta
Creto > drelond
Australia sCootland
(Hee teolend Par Fast (exept a few neo

Aldtmenia —. dn China) ....
: Atfeica (exeot northern sootton
ad Inicn of SoAfrics)

It would be apprecictod if wo could have photoststs of material
we a: thoce areas similar to that which you cave us for
of South Afticos



os, : a

duly. 29, 1963

MEAORAMDOW for Mr. David F. Seiferbeld

SIBJECTs Exclogod photostats

1. The enclosed photostats frea Xr. cy:
thonselves.

2. Cottrell called several days ago for permission to
send photoatate of his X-2 file to South Africa at the roe
quest of the S.I, zan there. ir. wurphy had'no objection,
ead I thought it xight be a good idea to osk for a extra
set for us, to enable you to chook against your fil
Cottrell saya that you already.siare this date, but it

seemed "to ne an econonloel’ opportuaity to eake certain of
thet faote

Horace H. Potera

i
i
i
1
i



SECRET

Ure Gs We Cottrell June 22, 1948 Hatta

List of Pro-Axis Spanterds working in Spain

. Tho attached request from tr. Soiferheld explains

itself. : : i i

Wil) you please send me any information you have

on these individuals at your convenience? 7 i 4



5 tir. Cottrell June 11, 1943

: - Horace W. Potere

1, Matorial on File

I will appreciate it very mucn Lf you will send

me any informaticn you may have relating to the

followings inuividuals:

ADOLPRA RIVERA TOVPKINS

Also, do you have anything on-flle concerning the —

following organizations

Toe Marquette Analyst
Room 2110 rs
8 West 40th Street ( cee auteepesser uae Vandi
New York City a :



SECRET

(Bron Pilled In)

OOCUENT DISPOSITION
1a. vaawsreoato To
ar rie mae OR OO

PERTINENT INFORMATION



Dr. Allan Abrams
Ext. 2104
Research acd Developest

TT

training
6/20/43 Cel bd me this morning in regard to/Zeptain White in

the use of the new Truth Serum developed by Dr, Abrams,

Called Captain White in Yew York and asked him to make
direct appointment with Abrams sometime between now and next

hhonday.

