‘*404-10213-10209) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 \.

on

DOI 50-10

wk
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL-USE OF CERTAIN
CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS

Reseission: CSI 50-10, 13 July 1970

L GENERAL

2. Elemental in the conduct of clandestine operations is the use of human
‘agents to accomplish the missions of the Operations Dircctorate. In gen-
eral, it s DDO policy to select agent assets with primary regard to the
agents’ abilities, target access, and security, and with few restrictions as
to their origins, professions or status as members of particular groups. The
basic rule is that any consenting adult may be used by the Opcrations
Directorate. There are, however, certain sens:tive categories of individuals
or groups whose operational use by the Operations Directorate is prohibited
or in some way restricted for reasons pot necessarily related to security
considerations.

b. These prohibitions or restrictions stem from one of the following:

(1) The Agency has been directed by US. Governmental authority to
sestrict or avoid the operational use of a particular category of in-
dividuals.

(2) The Agcacy has entered into a special restrictive agreement with an

+ erganization, government, corporation, or officisl responsible for a
category of individuals.

(3) The Director or the Deputy Director for Operations has imposed
restrictions on the operational use of a certain category of individuals
due to the extreme rigk or sensitivity of such exploitation.

2 PURPOSE

‘The purpose of this instruction Is to set forth the prohibitions and policy
restrictions (as distinguished from security restrictions) which currently per-
tain to the operational, use of various categories of individuals, together with
the special approval procedures to be followed in certain cases. Where ap-
Propriate, reference has been made to another publication which provides
more detailed guidance than has been attempted in this instruction. The
special approval procedures set forth in this instruction do not supersede or
aher in any way the requirements for covert approvals contained in DOI
and DOL-F 10-5.

SEGKER

i
i
|
i



oy '

SECRET i

DOI 50-10 3 |

i

DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-CENERAL . i
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

3. DEFINITI

Within the context of this instruction, the definitions listed below will apply. :
Special note must be taken of the fact that the key term “operational use”
employed throughout this instruction has been defined in the most succinct - DP
manner consistent with clarity. It has not been feasible, however, to cover in E
8 definition the entire scope of possible variations in operational circumstances
which may be encountered in DDO activities, The definition of “operational
use” is intended to provide guidance for the majority of cases, and must be
employed with responsible operational judgment. Issues involving a deter- D
mination of “operational use” which cannot be resolved with reasonable as-
surance by the responsible operating comporents will be referred to the
Deputy Director for Operations for decision.
a. Operational Use
Operational use is interpreted to mean the recruitment, utilization, or train-
{ng of any individual or group for DDO purposes on cither a witting or
unwitting basis by or on the behalf of an element of the Operations Direc a
torate, Utilization is made of an individual or §rcup whenever that in- )
dividual or group, responding to the direction or solicitation of a DDO
element, provides information, performs services, provides cover, or supplies
financial, material, or other support necessary for the accomplishment of
DDO operational objectives either directly or indirectly, to or for an ele-
ment of the Operations Directorate.
b. DDO Element
Any person or group who or which is responsible to, owned or controlled >
either directly or indirectly by the Operations Directorate. Included under
this definition are employees or members of Agency proprietary mech-

anisms.

© Operational Contact :
‘Any association having as its purpose the initiation or furtherance of DDO. i)
operations.

4 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE

a. Restrictions on the operational use of individuals or groups are of four types
and cover twenty five separate categories as outlined below and as described
in greater detail in paragraphs 5 through 8 of this instruction:

(1) Operational Use is Prohibited (see paragraph 5):
(a) Members and trainees of ACTION;

(by
8
SECRET
be |
Sen iH ce etaetscee {



_~
j é
i DOI 50-10
a DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS.GENERAL
: NO. 50-10 4 September 1973
(€) Officials oremployees ofthe == si
(d) Officials, employees, or
he (e) Employees of US. private detective investigative agencies.
(2) Operational Use Requires Special Extra-Acency Concurrence (sce
Paragraph 6): Ana d/PROWAL OF sA/ADDO.
(a) Employees of other U.S. Goverment agencies;
: (b) DDO agents or assets!
tee (c) Le
(4)
f
(3) Operational Use Requires Special Approval by the DDO (see pars-
: C graph 7): i
(a)
H (b)
t (c)
(a)
(e)

(£) Staff members or officials of Red Cross societies;
(g) Officials of the Vatican State:

3

i : (4) Operational Use Requires Approval by Chief of Area Division (see

: paragraph 8): ssesieeeeedeeeedtastisedssseeies

i * (a) Citizens or alien residents

i (b) Non-U.S. citizen delegates oremployers[~SSS~S~«
{e)

b. Operational use of an individual who comes under more than one type of

Testriction will be controlled by the highest type of restriction applicable
7 in his particular case.



e *
~
ae SECRET
DOL 50-10
DDO INS{RUCTION OPERATIONS-CENERAL
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

5. OPERATIONAL USE PROHIBITED

a. Members and Trainees of ACTION

(1) It is Agency policy that members and trainees of ACTION will not be
used in any capacity, with or without remuneration, by the Agency
or by organizations under its jurisdiction, (The term “members of AC-
TION™ will be understood to mean anyone employed by or associated
with ACTION except trainees.)

(2) It is Agency policy that former members of ACTION may be em
ployed or used by the Agency or by organizations under its jurisdiction
only in accordance with the following:

(a) Except as stated in (b) below, a former member of ACTION
may be employed or used operationally by any element of the
Agency only if a period of five full years has elapsed since his
separation from ACTION.

(b) An Agency-controlled organization may hire a former member of
ACTION, but only for duties related to the overt purposes of such
organization, if a period of at least twenty-four months has elapsed.
since his separation from ACTION.

(c) The employment or use of a former member of ACTION under
the provisions of subparagraph (a) or (b) above must have the
specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations.

oa (3) Former trainees whose ACTION service included duty or training over-
is Seas are subject to the rules governing employment or use of former
members of ACTION (subparagraph (2) above). Former trainees who
i did not serve at any time as members of ACTION and whose ACTION
7 service did not include duty or training overseas may be employed or
used operationally by DDO elements provided the specific prior ap-

proval of the Deputy Director for Operations is obtained.

(4) A former member or trainee of ACTION whose employment or use
is permitted by subparagraph (2) or (3) above may not be assigned
to or used in a country for which he had been trained or to which
he had becn assigned while with ACTION.

(5) Information may be received by the Domestic Collection Division
from private corporations and other organizations employing former
ACTION personnel, notwithstanding the fact that the information may
originate with former ACTION personnel. However, any direct brief-
ing or debriefing of or contact with former members or trainees of
ACTION is subject to the following:

(a) The specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations
must be obtained.

4
SECRET

Palen

ae

~ eed


¢ .
N ~
SECRET
DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

(b) If the individual is a former member of ACTION, or a former
trainee whose ACTION service included duty or training over-
seas, five years must have elapsed since his separation from
ACTION.

If contact with a former ACTION member or a former trainee whose

ACTION service included duty or training overseas should be un-

avoidable during the required five year waiting period, the Deputy

Director for Operations may request an exception from the Director

of Central Intelligence. Among the possible reasons, for such unavoid-

able contact would be the designation of a former member or trainee
as the liaison officer to the Domestic Collection Division.

DDO policy prohibits the operational use of individuals who are recciving
nder certain provisions (see below) of the
as amended,
commonly known as the Falling under this prohibi-_
tion are teachers, research scholars, lecturers and students (including |
ho have been selected to receive

appointed
by the President of the United States. Operational use of such individuals
is prohibited only during the period when they are participating in the
This prohibition specifically
~ does not apply to the several other categories of grantees supported by
other provisions of the isuch as|

rs!

| sa wot come aude tie aagir of the
see 7, below).

© Officials or Employees of the|

DDO policy prohibits the operational use of the officials or employees

of the Contacts with such

individuals which DDO officers are obliged to make in their cover ca-
pacities must be limited to their cover assignments.

a. Oiicias, Employees, or Grantees of the

“DDO policy prohibits the operational use of grantees of the! ]

le of other
persons actively participating in programs which are wholly sponsored
and controlled by any of these Additionally, there will be
no operational use made of the officials or employees of these organiza-
tions. In general, however, there is no restriction on nonoperational con-
tacts or consultations with such individuals.



7S SECRET “
DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL .
NO. 50-10 : 4 September 1973 !

e. Employees of US Private Detective Incestigatice Agencies
DDO policy prohibits the operational use either in the United States
or overseas of the employees of any U.S..owned or -controlled private
detective investigative agency. This policy does not apply to operational
use of employees of organizations which are engaged strictly in commercial y

6 EXTRA-AGENCY CONCURRENCE REQUIRED

a. Employees of Other US. Covernment Agencies
‘Approval for the operational use of staff or contract (including foreign) ')
employees of other U.S. Coverment agencies will be granted only in
‘cases where the employee's parent agency in Washington has been notified
of and has approved of the intended operational use in accordance with
the provisions of DOI 10-5.

b. DDO Agents or Assets it {iadakaiadasssaaainasasaseaasaas

In accordance with the agreement existing between

re 5 this Agency, the restrictions listed below apply to - i

the operational activity of the Operations Directorate conducted in the a)

Coordination with of appropriate information on
DDO operational activities in ae the responsibility of
the Chief, Liaison Group, Opcratious Staff.
(1) All investigations by this Agency of
require the prior concurrence of the In this context, the
term “investigation” means systematic and direct inquiries or pro-
cedures (such as physical or technical surveillances or neighborhood : :
inquiries) aimed at developing information concerning an individual's Dd ‘
activities or background; “investigation” does not include the ac- ‘
ceptance or the development of information through social contacts j
‘or contacts normally made by Agency officials in discharging their :
‘cover functions. i
(2) Any peas in the United States by a DDO element for recruit- D i
ment H :

requires the prior concurrence of : : i
(3) Any planned meeting in the United States for assessment and social . 7
development between a DDO element and a foreign official of known
interest to| or between a DDO element and an

requires that prior noti-

fication be provided to|
(4) Whenever domestic DDO operations involve matters pertaining to
the national security of the United States, appropriate identification
of persons engaged in the operations in the United States will be a
: v



” SECRET
DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-CENERAL
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973
provided to. _ lin accordance with this policy, the followin

jories of DDO asscts will id

who come to the United States for operational

Purposes.
© and Human Sources of Foreign Intelligence
Me
The as been established at bead-

quarters to provide for United States Intelligen x
@ centralized record of

A principal purpose of the is to register primacy of interest and
Prevent multiple

Tt is USIB policy that no individual
registered in the|___|by one USIB agency will be used for operational pur-
poses by any other USIB agency without the specific prior approval of the

If a DDO element desires to arrange the
will con-
ito determine whether there is a

tact the agency having’
willingness to discuss tis ma

d. Citizens (or Persons Documented as Citizens) of |

I
(1) The operational use of citizens of the above-named|

authority. Such approval will be obtained at the earliest feasible stage
__of development through the |

(2) The above restriction also governs the use of _|documentation
representing DDO staff or agent personnel ieee)
aaa for the use of 31 mentation wil
‘Sought through the same channels as stated in subparagraph (1)
above.
(3) Authority to make operational use of the persons or documentation
described in the above subparagraphs without obtaining the prior

approval of the authority concerned may be granted only
by the Deputy Director for Operations or by the Director.

is res
reements with the intelligence or security authorities of such
Iehich require the prior approval of the appropriate



DOI 50-10 .)

DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-CENERAL .
NO, 50-10 4 September 1973 i

e

“The operational use of any citizen of Norway, West Germany or The
is, under certain conditions, contingent_on_priot approval
w ‘Of the national intelligence service concemed. These are_par-
yy v ticularly sensitive in cases involving the operational use of their Oo
Mw Kay who land who are serving
ans flags. Each case involving the proposed operational use of a| lof
by) by, ove of these \will be reviewed by the Chief of the :
C Division in ght of the agreements existing between this Agency and i
the national intelligence_service concerned. After weighing all of the
equities, the Chief of the Division will decide whether approval ie)
is required from the national intelligence service concemed. When re-
quired, approvals for the operational use of such individuals will be ‘
obtained from the appropriate national intelligence services by
£ |

“The operational use of ardless of their) :
who are serving learrying the nn ae ee

| is, under certain conditions, subject i
‘ provisions of the agreements existing between this Agency and the i
Bational intelligence service concemed. Each case involving the proposed
Operational use of such a will be reviewed by the Chief
of the! Division or the Chief of the Division, as ap-

light of the pertinent interservice as ents, After

weighing all of the equities, the Chief of th Division or the >

Chief of the Division will determine the course of action to

be taken with regard to the national intelligence service concemed.

7. APPROVAL BY THE DDO REQUIRED

by the Deputy Director for Operations for the operational use D
of any individual who falls into one of the categories described in this para-

graph will be requested by memorandum. The individual's covert approval
status will be described in the memorandum to the Deputy Director for
Operations, together with a concise explanation of the intended operational
use. (In connection with this paragraph, contacts by the Domestic Collection
Division with individuals or firms do not require approval by the Deputy
Director for Operations provided they constitute merely briefing or de-
briefing for the purpose of obtaining information acquired by an individual
‘or representative of a firm in the course of his normal activities. If, however,
in any case the contact is on behalf of another element of the Operations

i
\
!
j
t
$

8
SECRET



. DDO INSTRUCTION
: NO. 50-10

SECRET am

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL
4 September 1973

Directorate or another agency: or if an individual or firm will be requested
to perform an opcrational task or to deviate from his or its normal pattern
of activity; or if the activity, even though consistent with the individual's

‘a or firm's normal pa

ttern of activity, will take place because requested of

funded by the Domestic Collection Division; that case will be subject to

the requirement for

approval by the Deputy Director for Operations.)

*

| _|{see DOr

2408) iy

(1) Operational use of” ]

G requires prior

there is danger that such activity

approval by the Deputy Director for Operations whenever
ight serve in any way to
|Such activities include but are not limited to the

erational use

media for non-US. audiences does nat require approval by the Deputy”
cq P

Broattae\ Director for Operations even though such activities max have some

Dace unintended and unsolicited fallout!

é or control
@) b Employees

It is DDO policy to avoid operational use of employees of the
organization including indigenous employees. Exceptional individual cases

{The op-
abroad off 5

rector for Operations is also required prior

_[ whenever the individual is a US.
—Jinvolved is under US. ownership

involving priority operational objectives will be considered on their merits.

Prior approval by
ae) in all cases.

: © Individuals Engaged
i Individuals engaged
: or seek to have an

considered to be in a

for Operations.
capacity of any individual who is engaged sf
and who is located in or operating into the United States.

the Deputy Director for Operations will be required

are
te sensitive category. In view of the peculiar
vty, including the special requirements of

_____|Act, approval by the Deputy Director

equired prior to the operational use in a

9
SECRET

|


alae nab Rn se nie pom be Werte or cman

—~

Prior approval of the Director or the Deputy Director for Operations is

:  secReT iain :
DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL,
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973
a J
(_____ (see Dor 60-11

required for operational cuntact in the United States with or operational

use of|

ee while in the United States, such individual is to be investigated,
approached for recruitment. or contacted for operational purposes, the prior
‘concurrence of will also be required in accordance with para-
anh 6b, above 5

|
‘tis DDO policy that the operational use off
f its various main organs and of
is of such sensitivity as to require
special consideration hy the Deputy Director for Operations. In especially

worthwhile cases wherein operational use of a particular individual
is deemed essential fur the accomplishment of the DDO mission, approval
may be obtaiued. In each case involving a non-US. citizen assigned in
the US. or a US. citizen wherever assigned, the prior approval of the
Deputy Director for Operations will be reauired. (See naragraph 8b.

e

regarding use of non-US. citizen t assigned
in the US.) If, while in the United States, the individual is to be
investigated, approached for tment, or contacted for operational pur-

poses, the prior concurrence of
in paragraph 6.b.,, above.

£. Staff Members or Officials of Red Cross Societies
‘The operational use of staff members or officials of the International Red
Cross or its affiliated rational Red Cross, Red Crescent, or other equivalent
societies requires special consideration and prior approval by the Deputy
Director for Operations. DDO elements should make every effort to avoid
the operational use of staff members or officials of Red Cross societies. How-
ever, when especially high priority objectives are at stake and alternative
agent assets are not available, approval for the use of such individuals may
be granted by the Deputy Director for Operations.

& Officials of the Vatican State
Operational contact with officials of the Vatican State will be made only
with the prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations. Operational
use of Vatican officials will be contingent on prior approval by the Deputy
Director for Operations.

or forei; | partic®-
pating in oF other

may also be required as outlined



Pteai |

‘NY’

k

¢ 7 :
~ ~_~

DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL

NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

[except certain Lsce paragraph 5b,

] are considered to be in a separate sensitive cates

rational
use of such individuals while they are actively participating in an|
[ |requires special considerat
and approval by the Deputy Director for Operations prior to such use. In

certain especially worthwhile cases wherein the operational use of a par-
ticular is considered essential to
the accomplishment of the mission, the Deputy Director for Opera-

tions may grant approval Memoranda requesting such approval will be
forwarded through the Chief, Foreign Resources Division. In such cases the

Deputy Director for Operations will determine whether or not to seek the
concurrence of the|

1 Members of|
(1) _It is U.S. Government policy that no federal agency shall provide any
{

[This pier”

applies to all foreign as well as domestic activities of such organiza-
tions. In compliance with the above proscription, DDO policy requires
the most careful scrutiny of all cases involving operational contact with

| The operational use of aay employee, staff
member or official of such an organization requires prior approval by
the Deputy Director for Operations. The Deputy Director for Opera-
tions will determine whether or not to seek extra-Agency approval for
the conduct of such operations.

(2) tional_use including covert funding abroad of
land the personnel thereof is per-
even if the organization is also funded by
f- Officials or Employees of
Operational use of the officials or employees of the
requires prior approval of the Deputy Director tor Uperations. —
Contacts with such individuals which DDO officers are obliged to make in

their cover capacities will not involve operational matters until the approval
of the Deputy Director for Operations has been secured.

_ Operational use of or operational contact with members of
while they are on assignment in the United States will not

made without the prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations.
are participants in programs established by various
ign countit collaboration with the Department of State as a

pil
SECRET



SECRET ~

fay
DOI 50-10 D
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-CENERAL on
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973 ;

Such volunteers are sent to the US.
for a period of

‘The name of the organization may vary by country.

& OPERATIONAL USE REQUIRES APPROVAL BY CHIEF OF AREA D
DIVISION .

Operational use of any individual in the categories listed in this paragraph

4s considered of such sensitivity as to require special consideration and ap-

Proval by the appropriate Area Division Chief. This authority may not be

delegated. The request for approval will be by memorandum in which the Dd
individual's covert approval status will be described, together with a concise

explanation of the intended operational use.

a (seo

DOI 50-19)

‘The opr.ational use a a gr) have
been admitted for permanent residence or have resided for a prolonged

period in the U.S,, requires the prior approval of the Chief of the Area ce
Division under whose jurisdiction the intended use is to take place, : ’

b

“The operational use off
who are not assigned in the U.S. requires the prior ap-
proval of the Chief of the Area Division under whose jurisdiction the in-

tended use is to take place.
Members of the Community ')
(1) Within the context of this instruction a member of the academic com-
7 munity is defined as: |
I [Persons
‘associated with] d

are not considered to be members of the community.

(2) Operational use of members of the| ____|community, especially
those cases wherein an individual is to be made witting of Agency
interest, will be on a highly selective basis. Each case will be examined
to ascertain its essentiality to the DDO mission in terms of the price
of possible disclosure, and to ensure that proper security procedures
can be observed. When it has been determined that the operational

use of a member of the community as defined above is |
1s ~



|

SECRET

Senet DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 . 4 September 1973

operationally feasible and without suitable alternative, prior approval
in the following cases will be obtained as indicated below:

(a) Any US. citizen who is a member of the community

{ and who is associated in any way with any/

(b) ‘Any non-U.S. citizen who is a member of the: community
aed who is associated in any way with any |

quested by memorandum to the Chief, Foreign Resources Division.
The memorandum will include a statement that the individual is, or
is not, a DCD asset or contact, and in the event he is will include
the concurrence of the Chief, Domestic Collection Division. If the in-
dividual is located outside the United States, approval will be requested
by memorandum to the Chicf of the Area Division who has jurisdiction
over the area concerned.) Operational use of members of the
community who are not associated in any way wit
is also ton-
sidered sensitive. The operational use of such individuals also requires
the approval of the Chief of the Area DivisionfIn any case involving

‘& well known person or having special security implications, the

Division Chief to whom the request is referred under the above pro-

visions will consult with the DDO and obtain the latter's approval.

(3) The provisions of paragraph (2) do not apply to Domestic Collection

Division contacts with members of the community, but such

contacts are subject to the following requirements:

(a) If a member of the «remy would be asked to per-
form an operational task of to alter his normal pattern of activity
in order to serve Agency purposes, prior approval of the Chief,
Domestic Collection Division is required. Additionally, if such an
individual will be in a foreign area, the concurrence of the Chief
of the Area Division concerned will be obtained.

(b) Prior concurrence will be obtained from the appropriate Area
Division Chief if an individual is to be utilized in a politically
sensitive area where his presence or activities could potentially
embarrass the interests of the U.S. Government.

(c) The requirements of paragraph 8a. apply if a citizen or alien
resident of the United States would be used in a denied area.

(4) At the end of each calendar year, Chiefs of Divisions will submit a
report to the Deputy Director for Operations (via Chief, Foreign

Resources Division) on the number of individuals recruited from the

13

: Lppo
| __|which is Tocated Siena the Cited States pr abroad. .
If the individual is located in the United SENG approval will be we Offooel
—



’
on
a SECRET
DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

lcommunity during that year. This audit will permit the DDO
to Keep abreast of major quantitative changes in the number of po-
tentially sensitive operational cases in each Division.

(5) It should be noted that the provisi ‘pot apply
to DDO employees who wish ‘Approval for
such activity will be obtained in accor wi provisions of

: HR107.

@ INDIVIDUAL CHANCES OF STATUS OR CATEGORY

‘When an individual undergocs a change of status which places him in one of
the restricted categories described above, or transfers him from one category
to another, his operational use or continued operational use is contingent upon
approval or reapproval as prescribed for his new status.

10. INTERPRETATION OR MODIFICATION OF RESTRICTIONS

Certain of the policy restrictions described in this instruction are subject to
faterpretation, extension or modification by the Deputy Director for Opera-
tions depending on the conditions and the atmosphere for DDO operations
at any particular time. Especially when dealing on the edges of policy rulings
end within the guidelines set forth herein, particular heed should be paid to
the price of disclosure, including careful consideratiua of the sensitivities of
the individuals involved. When there is any doubt concerning the application
Of these restrictions, guidance should be obtained from the Deputy Director
for Operations,

William E. Nelson
Deputy Director for Operations

nm!
——

