992
IN RECORDS ACT OF 1!

E UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATIO! C

2022 RELEAS! :

+ SECRET 1515472 ave 71 c11E JPADRID 14417 AFOLL
DIRECTOR INFO WHyNIANE DUPLICATE AND coRRECTED copy

REFS mapRip usta Gy 373622). LU.

I. AMECRU-1 BROUGHT co TO DATE of ACTIVITIES Stucé Last
 SMUARY, ae :

‘Ae DURING STAY CARACAS. say GOVT OFFICIALS
.* CALDERA DowW TO MINGOB LORENZO F ER g
" PRISONER EXCHANGE. GOVT FEARFUL UNFAVORABLE PUBLIC REACTION AND
POSSIBLE ARKY COUP SHOULD PROPOSAL BE MISINTERPRETED as coy
CILIATORY MOVE TovaRD FIDEL castRo. accror DEHOCRATICA TENDS To
” FAVOR EXCHANGE. . FORMER FOWKIN. ARCAYO SUGGESTED THAT VENEZUELAN -
_ WORKERS WOULD APPROVE EXCHANGE OF ouE VENEZUELAN, ABCALL-1
261-275949) aN ‘38 orn PRISONERS FoR Two cuBaRS Im
VEREZUELAN JAIL. cAaRcAYO CITED GOOD TREATHERT AFFORDED THESE
TWO, OWE OF WHOM WAS ALLovED To MARRY ABD HAVE HOUEY HooW our oF
sRIL.) ARCAYO CLAIMS HAS TRIED UNSUCCESSFULLY To PERSUADE
FIDEL CASTRO To ACCEPT ExcHaNer. _BOTH POLITICAL SIDES VENEZUELA.

THERFORE APPEAR TO FAVOR PURSUING EXCHANGE THROUGH vaTICAN aT
18 TO 2 Ratio. ace :

FROM PRESIDENT

RYBAT TYPIC AMECRU AMCALL AMHINT ANSOUR a Blas H40088j4

ANDEZ REGARDING POSSIBLE

+ peewee oe

ne ee



ON ane mene eee eee me eee dae tae

jue SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION,
‘Gaourt
ogg ot erm

(When Filled In) Samat

PAGE 2 MADRID 1441T SECRET- . ‘
B. ON RETURN TO EUROPE SAW AMKNAR-1 EARLY JULY.
#).THOUGH AMECRU-1 HAD SENT REPEATED REMINDERS TO AMKNAR-1 AND
GLa sankiy :
COLLEAGUE AS WELL AS TO IEBTITY z DIRECTLY, NO. gORK RECEIVED.
Walden 2401 JneweiceRawer
ANKNAR-1 ADVISED THAT BOTH IDENTITY B AND TewTiTY. c “hn WHO IN-
TRODUCED IDENTITY B AS ANECRU’ S- CONTACT) Wad BEEN TRANSFERRED Pcs
AVA BAy WITH NO REPLACEMENT INDICATED. ouE WEEK LATER AMKNAR-1
INFORPED HIM THAT HE HAD RECEIVED INSTRUCTIONS FROM HAVANA TO
TELL HIM THAT GOC HAD DECIDED TO “RESCIND” OPERATION AND THAT MONEY 7
lee cea :
| WOULD BE REFUNDED IN MANNER TO BE DECIDED BY AMECRU-1. WO REASOB a i

FOR REVERSAL GIVEN BY AMKRAR~1. HE SAID THAT AMCALL-1 ABD

STEAD FOR FUTURE. - ON LEAYING, AMKNAR-1 TOSSED Out.
COMMENT THAT AMECRU-1 MIGHT BEST COKTINUE TO PURSUE “EXCHANGE Issue |
WITH. VEREZUELA AND VATICAN. ee - : |
2e ‘ABECRU-1 SHOWED C/O coPlES: OF CORRESPONDENCE, BETWEEN fails ee |
tale“ Puer > a
HIM'AND WIFE AMCALL-1, FATHER ANHINT-3, IDENTITY D AND IDENTITY epee:
a area
E-LETTER FROM ANCALL-1 WIFE TO IDENTITY A SEW ee
also SHOWED EVIDENCE. L! FROM Al pA 1 Pa cra Tr YA. iT
TIRCUGH IDENEITY Fr ast SOURCE FOR SENDING PACKAGES TO CUBA,
ENTITY 6G, SOON TO BE TRANSFERRED.) AWAITED VISIT FROM 4 |
Dest gations — bude. Ala
iat

eee LS See re eee et ete

nef

AMHINT=3 ACCEPTAWCE OF REABILITATION SHOULD PUT THEM I8 GOOD : f
}

|
{



SECRET
(When Filled ty) "E3355

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PRONIBITE

PAGE 3 MADRID ee s E See’, R REY e
IDESTITY tse Aicist To TO DETERMINE DISPOSITION AMCALL-1 Miles
UNLESS FURTHER™ INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM GOC WHICH WOULD. _
RASTICALLY AFFECT CASES, PLANS TO LEAVE EUROPE .To RESIDE CARACAS
25 AUGUST. 7 7 :
3. AMECRU-I SPECULATIES?: FROM START, OBVIOUS THAT DIFFERENCE 5
EXISTED appear raid eh FACTION, ABPRESENTED IN FIELD BY :
DESTITY B aw. IDENTITY Precicemnnis PREDECESSORS AMBANAL-1 AND
AMBUCK-4, AND IDENTITY 1 FhEON ae PnescitED Tn FIELD BY AMKNAR-1.
ELIEVED ANKWAR-1 MORE INFLUENTIAL THAW AMSTAFF COUNTERPARTS AND
MAY RESENT AMSTAFF ASSUMPTION OF CONTACT AS WELL AS ANECRU-1
“ATTEMPTS TO COMMUNICATE DIRECTLY WITH IDENTITY A.

: 4. ON BASIS CUBAH INDIFFERENT ATTITUDE TOWARD HIM, AMECRU-1
“FEELS HE WOW OUT OF CUBAN GOOD GRACES AND WHEN LEAVES THIS TIME WILL
TAKE WO FURHTER ACTIVE STEPS On OWN INITIATIVE. WILL SEE AMKNAR-1
GICE HORE BEFORE DEPARTURE TO GIVE HIM PERMANENT MIAME FORWARDING.
ADDRESS WHERE MESSAGE CAN BE PASSED ANY TIME SHOULD HIS

SERVICES BE DESIRED. ol

3. OW ARRIVAL CARACAS WILL SEE PRESIDENT CALDERA To URGE HE

CONSIDER SOUNDING OUT CASTRO, THROUGH INTERCESSION PRESIDERT ALLENDE,



“REMATOCAMPETT I, SAMI TRACTOR COMPARY, MILAH. BILBAO IN-

“WERE EASED OUT BY DE CONTI AND CAMPETTI WHO GOT CONTRACT. A-1

“ENCE, SO A-1 WISHES MAME CLEAR HIS AND BILBAO’S USSELFISH MOTIVES FOR

SECRET _crourt
(When Filled In) Eas |

REPRODUCTION OF THis COPY PROMIDITED

PAGE 4 MADRID M417 SECRET :
OW PRISONER EXCHANGE USING VATICAN*S GOOD OFFICES. 1N EUROPE,
™ R (0 BE CONTINUED FOR PAPAL INTER Ns es

SIMILAR OVERTURES TO BE CONTINUED FOR PAPHL. INTE VENTION», wig |

TRousH IDENTITIES Y, f, oat ce ANVALYES2 Cet 216972) CATTER |” ian:
Mead Hy of Geese Rohe

HOPEFULLY THROUGH PERSUASION EXERTED BY OTHERS). :

6. DISCUSSIONS WITH SISTER AMSOUR-1 INDICATE THAT AMSOUR-1

CASE DEFINITELY CLOSED. : : : z

ya “WISHED CLEAR HIS FAME AND THAT RAFAEL 3B IL B ao,
INTER SATIONAL CAPITAL ASSOCIATION, NEW YORK CITY, OF COMPLICITY
IN CUBAN TRADE INTITIATED BY BRUNO ALCIDES DE COMTI,
ITALAIN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY MAGNATE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, AND _

i

|
Ty APECRU-! FERSONAL ITEMS: oe ett sieetasieieneeastete = .

i

VOLVED INTITALLY To GET RELATIVES OUT OF CUBA$ AMECRU-1 IW HOPES
WOULD ENHANCE status WITH CUBANS FOR PRISONER EXCHANGE. BOTH .

FRIEND IW MAIMI ADVISED THAT MATTER INVESTIGATED BY U.S.. INTELLI- ee

INVOLVEMENT THIS DEAL. a

~-., Be (AMECRU-1 MADE PITCH TO JKLAWCE AS CA ASSET amt PROPOSES

TO WHITE ARTICLES -_ WORLD SCOPE PRESENTOG ‘views use POLICY MORE
ce oO e

firs Eicon stnttntaggremnmeren SECRET aadretstasestiacisenssiocisdt ay anes

Te eehinenas ae



SECRET oc arc
(When Filled tn) “Eesaze [2 |
[ sersooustion oF Tus conv pnomiere> |

PAGE 5 MADRID 14417 SECRET :
CONVINCING TO LATIN AMERICANS THAN NORMALLY AVAILABLE IN PRESS OR
: “MLANCE SUBSIDIZED BACKING OF SUCH INEFFECTIVE PERSONS AS AMBIDDY-1.
“SUGGESTS HIS VEEMLY ARTICLES COULD EITHER BE sEuT DIRECTLY THROUGR
"QIN CONTACTS To 26 LEADING L A Asp SPANISH NEWSPAPERS OR JKLANCE
COULD ARRANGE SINDICATED COMTRACT FoR DISTRUBTION Ta SUBSCRIBERS,
PROPOSES MODEST SALARY OF $2500 MONTHLY PLUS, oF COURSE, OFFICE
AWD se@RETaRiaL EXPENSES. C/O WATURALLY REMARKED THAT THOUGH aq
GERTATWLY COULD PRESENT THEMES COBVENCINGLY DOUBTED THAT CURRENT
“SRLANCE BUDGET WOULD PERMIT THIS EXPERDITURE. aT HIS REQUEST,
MOVEVER, RELAYING OFFER SO THAT DEFINITE ANSVER HAY BE GIVEN HIn *
WHILE BARCELONA 20-25 AUGUST. PLEASE ADVISE. i fei
8+ POUCHING COPIES AMECRU-1 CORRESPONDENCE MEMTIONED PARA 2.
9. FILE: 261-6610653 261-275949, 201-287682, GP-4
SECRET i

