iod-t04'8-10358) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]
SENDER { i. CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP. ae BoT? 3

UNCLASSIFIED [_conripentiat [yf Sucre

«CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

DIRECT REPLY
APPROVAL DISPATCH
COMMENT FILE

CONCURRENCE I INFORMATION i

PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENDATION
RETURN
SIGNATURE

Atteched is a "second installment"
of our OSWALD biography. You will be

furnished a final copy when our book has been
completed.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

CI/sia Ann Egerte
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL

Fam 0. 9.37 Use previous editions

(a0)


Lee Harvey OSWALD

Biography
Appendix A


DATE

195

1947

19h8

1953
15 December =
6 January 1953

December

Marah to January
of 195k

EVENT

OSWALD attended the Lily B. Clayton
School in Fort Worth, Texas, when his
mother moved from New Orleans, Louisiana,
to Fort Worth.

OSWALD entered the Forti Worth School System
on 27 January 1917.

In 1948, after her divorce from Edwin A.
EKDAHL, OSWALD's mother bought a house

at 7408 Ewing Street, West Ridglea, Texas,
and OSWALD attended the West Ridglea
School.

From 15 December 1953 to 6 January 195)

Big Brothers, Ince, an agency specializing
in providing adult male companionship for
fatherless boys 10 to 16 years old, tried
to assist OSWALD. The work was terminated

REFERENCE

New York Times

i December 1963
New_York Times

I, December 1963

New York Times
Y December 1963

New York Times

7 December 1963

when OSWALD's mother returned to New Orleans,

Louisiana with her children, OSWALD's last
day of attendance at school in New York
City was given as 12 January 195k.

Around December 1953 (sic), OSWALD
entered Beauregard Junior High School
at 4621 Canal Street, New Orleans,
Louisiana, as an eighth grade transfer
student from Public School ) in New
York City.

From March 1953 to January 1954 John
Carro was OSWALD's probation officer.
OSWALD was absent from Jumbor High
School 117, for 7 days between
October 1952 and January 1953. Carro
found that CSWALD watched television
all day long while his mother worked.
When OSWALD finally appeared before
Judge Delany of The Bronx Children's
Court, he was sent to Youth House for
Boys for observation. Dr. Renatur

New York Times
3 December 1963

New York Times
3 December 1963


13-00000

DATE

March 1953 to
January 195, cont.

April 1953

195k

1 July 1956

1959

SENT REFERENCE
‘HARTOGA, head psychiatrist at the New York Times

institution examined OSWALD And found him
"dangerous." OSWALD made three consecutive
appearances at the Children's Ceurt before
Judges Patrick J. Fogarty, J. Walter McClancy
and Dudley F. Sicher, all of whom recommended
psychiatric treatment. In November 1953
OSWALD was referred to the court's psychiatric
clinic. When Carre wrote te OSWALD's mother
in January 195) asking her to bring OSWALD

to the clinic the letter was returned with
the notation, "Moved".

jecember 1963

In April 1953 OSWALD was committed by the New York Times

Children's Court te Youth House for Beys in
the Bronx.

ecem| 3

Presumably, sometime after 12 January 1954 New York Times

OSWALD's mother returned to New Orleans,
Louisiana with her children. OSWALD's
last day of attendance at school was given
by the New York Board of Education as

12 January 195k,

ember

On 1 July 1956 OSWALD's mother rented an DEF -82181
apartment upstairs at 936 Collington Street,3 July 1963

Fort Worth, Texas, which she occupied with
OSWALD and Robert Lee OSWALD. At that time
OSWALD was a student at the Arlington Heights
High School. While resideing at this address
OSWALD went out very little, preferring to
stay at home and read. Mrs. Yames E. TAYLOR,
who rented the apartment to OSWALD's mother,
stated that OSWALD read very "deep" books,
some of which he received through the mail.

For several months before his discharge from
the Marine Corps, OSWALD studied Russian and
read Russian newspapers. According to OSWALD's
Marine Corps commanding officer, OSWALD was
smart enough to get_a G.C.T. (General
Classification Test) of 110, the same grade

-2=

New York Times
5 December 1963


13-00000

DATE

1959 cont.

1959

1962

3 June 1962

7 June 1962

EVENT REFERENCE

required for a commission is required for New York Times
radar work. When OSWALD requested an early December 1963
discharge from the Marine Corps in September

1959 on the grounds of his mother's financial

hardship, other men in the squadron offered

to "chip in" and help him. OSWALD turned down

these offers. When, a month later, OSWALD

appeared in Moscew, all secret radio frequencies >

call signs, and authentication codes were

compromised. OSWALD knew the location of every

unit on the West Coast, and the radar capability

of every installation. Several thousand man-hours
changing everythin and verifying the destruction

of the codes.

HELS2299
On 10 and 11 October 1959 OSWALD stayed 27 November 1963
at the Torui Hotel in Helsinki, Finland
and then moved to the Klaus Kurki Hotel
where he stayed until 15 October apparently
waiting for a visa to be issued to him by
the Soviet Consulate in Helsinki. On 15
October he traveled to the USSR by train
crossing the border at Vainikkala.

On 13 May 1962 Moscow issued OSWALD's wife DIR 85817

a Dutch transit visa. 23 November 1963
Records of the office of the German Federal DIR 86702 :
Republic in Cologne, Germany show that ¥ December 1963

Marina Nikolayevna Pusakova OSWALD crossed West
Germany from East Germany to Holland by train
on 3 June 1962. She had a West German visa
694/62 issued at the West German Embassy in
Moscow. er final destination was given as
the United States,

On 7 June 1962, Marina OSWALD advised the Sovi #
Soviet Embassy in Washington, D, C., to re- Soviet Consular File
gister her Residence Permit No. KY-37790,

issued 1] January 1962 by MID (Ministry of

Internal Affairs) of the USSR, in the city

of Moscow. She gave as her last place of

residence in the USSR, City of Minsk,

Kommunisticheskaya, House #4, Apt. 25.

~3-


13-00000

9 July 1962

July 1962

15 August 1962

EVENT REFERENCE

In the summer of 1962 Mr. and Mrs. George State Airgram No.
DeMOHRENSCHILDT of Fort Worth, Texas were B December 1963
introduced to OSWALD and his wife through

friends who were interested in helping the

OSWALDs. The friends were, George BOURE,

an accountant in Dallas, Max CLARK, an

attorney, who had previously been a security

officer with the Convair plant, and a petroleum

engineer named Peter GREGORY, who reportedly

"discovered" Marina OSWALD.

On 9 July 1962 a letter was sent from the Soviet Consular File
Consular Division of the Soviet Embassy in

Washington, d. c., to Marina OSWALD requesting

her residence permit for registration. She

was also asked to complete card 118.

An undated letter from OSWALD to the Seviet Soviet Consular File
Embassy was written from OSWALD's "new

address" 2703 Mercedes Street, Fort Worth,

Texas. OSWALD stated that his wife's

passport N. KU 37790, had been forwarded

to the Soviet Embassy on 20 July. OSWALD

asked to be told how he could subscribe to

"Prava or Isvestia" or some other Russian

language magazine such as "Ogonyok." OSWALD

alse requested any periodicals or bulletins

the Embassy "put out" for the "benefit of -
your citizens, living for a time, in the USA."

On 15 August 1962 Marina OSWALD wrote to the Soviet Consular File
Consular Section of the Soviet Embassy in

Washington, D, C. a letter stating that she

mailed her "Residence" and card Ne. 118 on

22 July 1963, and had had no further word

concerning it. She stated that she was

worried because they had not been acknowledged.

She gave her address as 2703 Mercedes Ave.,

Forth Werth, Texas.


13-00000

DATE

1962

6 Sept 1962

31 Dec 1962

Jamary 1963,

17 February 1963

8 March 1963

EVENT

In the summer or fall of 1962 Mrs. and
Mrs. George DeMOHRENSCHILDT took OSWALD
anc his wife to meet a friend, Everett
GLOVER, in Dallas, Texas. The GLOVERs
introduced a Mrs. Ruth PAINE to the
OSWALDs.

On 6 September 1962 Marina OSWALD's
Seviet Passport was returned to her
by the Chief of the Consular Section
of the Soviet Embassy in Washington,
D.C. The letter was addressed te her
at 2703 Mercedes Avenue, Fert Worth,
Texas.

On 31 December 1962, Marina OSWALD advised
the Seviet Consulate in Washington, D. C.,
that she and her husband had moved to
Dallas, Texas. She gave her address

as, P. 0. Bex 2915, Dallas, Texas.

In early January 1963, on the occasien

of the Greek Orthodox Christmas, Mr.

and Mrs. George DeMOHRENSCHILDT brought
OSWALD and his wife te a Russian Christmas
party at the heme of Mr. Declan FORD, in
Dallas, Texas. The party was attended by
many people including Americans, Europeans,
and White Russians. During the party
OSWALD spent most of his time with a
Japanese girl named Yaiko (phonetic).

On 17 February 1963 Marina OSWALD wrote to
the Soviet Embassy from Dallas, Texas,
requesting help te return to the homeland.
She stated that her husband would not
accompany her, and she added, "I beg you
once more not to refuse my request."

On 8 March 1963 the Consular Division of
the Soviet Embassy in Washington, D, C.,

REFERENCE

State Airgram
B December 1962

Soviet Consular File

Soviet Consular File

State Airgram
B December 1963

Soviet Consular File

Soviet Consular-‘File


13-00000

Ar

8 March 1963
cont.

17 March 1963

17 March 1963

20 March 1963

10 April 1963

18 April 1963

wet REFERENCE
forwarded Marina OSWALD applications Seviet Consular File

to complete in connection with her
request for a visa to return te the
USSR, and other instructions. She
was advised that the processing of
her application would take from 5 to 6
months.

On 17 March 1963 Marina OSWALD completed Soviet Consular File
a two page questionnaire for the Soviet

Embassy in Washington, D. C. in connection

with her request for a visa to return to

the USSR. The questionnaire contained

biographical details and a short auto-

biegraphy.

On 17 March 1963 Marina OSWALD wrote to Soviet Consular File
the Soviet Ambassador in Washington, D. C.,

as instructed by the Consular Division

of the Embassy, requesting permission to

return to the USSR.

On 20 March 1963 an Italian made Mannlicher- New York Times
Carcine rifle, a 1938 model of 6.5 mm caliber, 7 Dec 1963
was received by OSWALD at his Dallas Post

Office Bex. The rifle had been ordered from

the Chicago mail-order house of Klein's

Sporting Goods in the name of A. HIDELL.

On 10 April 1963 Major Gen. Edwin A, WALKER New York Times
was fired upon while working in his study 7 Dec

in his Dallas home. OSWALD's widow, Marina

OSWALD, has claimed that OSWALD told her

that he had shot at General Walker.

On 18 April 1963 the Soviet Consulate Soviet Consular File
advised Marina OSWALD by letter that she Eee
should come to Washington, D. C., or explain

by letter the reasons which made her start

proceecings for return to the USSR for

permanent residence.

-6-


13-00000

5 May 1963

4 June 1963

1 July 1963

8 July 1963

5 August 1963

EVENT REFERENCE
On 5 May 1963 Marina OSWALD filed a Soviet Consular File

change of address notice te the
Consular Divisien of the Soviet Embassy
in Washingten, D, C. The old address
was given as Box 2915, Dallas, Texas,
and the new address was given as 907
Magazine Street, New Orleans, Louisiana.

On 4 June 1963 another letter was sent from Soviet Consular File
the Consular Division of the Soviet Embassy

in Washington, D. C., requesting Marina

OSWALD to explain her reasons fer desiring

to return to the USSR by letter if she was

unable to visit Washington for that purpose.

On 1 July 1963 Lee Harvey OSWALD wrote to Soviet Consular File
the Soviet Embassy in Washington, D. C.,

requesting the Soviet Embassy to "rush"

the Soviet entrance visa for his wife,

Marina OSWALD, because she was going to

have a baby, in October, and he asked

that the travel arrangements be made before

then. He added that his visa could be considered

separately.

On 8 July 1963 Marina OSWALD wrote to the Soviet Consular File
Consular Division of the Soviet Embassy in

Washington, D. C., stating, "I urgently

beg you to facilitate the expediting of

this matter for the reason stated in a

previous letter."

On 5 August 1963 Marina OSWALD was advised by Soviet Consular File_
the Consular Division of the Soviet Embassy

in Washington, D. C., that her request for

entering the Soviet Union for permanent

residence had been forwarded to Moscow for

precessing, and that she would be advised

at once when the answer was received.

-T-


13-00000

DATE

25 September
1963

26 September 1963

October 1963

20 October 1963

23 October 1963

EVENT REFERENCE
Mary LeeeDANNELLY, assistant chief of Washington Pest
the administrative divison of the draft 2 cember 1963

system for Texas says that Lee Harvey
OSWALD called on her in Austin, Texas
several weeks before the assassination
in an attempt te get his discharge from
the Marines changed to an honorable one.
As OSWALD reportedly left New Orleans on
23 September and arrived in Mexico City
by bus on 26 September, he could have
stopped in Austin en route to Laredo on
25 September which was about eight weeks
before the assassination.

On 26 September 1963 a report on President New York Herald Tribune
Kennedy's proposed visit was published in 7 November 19
the Dallas Morning News.

Some time in October 1963, a gunsmith in New York Times
Irving, Texas, mounted a telescopic sight 29 November 1963
on a gun for a man named OSWALD. The

gunsmith, Dial D. RYDER, found a receipt

showing he had mounted and adjusted a

a sight on a gun for a customer named OSWALD.

There was no date for the receipt, but RYDER

recalled that the work had been done about a

month ago (i. s. October). The customer

paid $4.50 for drilling and $1.50 for bore-

sighting the weapon.

On 20 October 1963 Marina OSWALD gave birth Soviet Consular File
te a baby girl, Audrey Marina OSWALD.

On 23 Octeber 1963 OSWALD attended a rally New York Times
formed by the U. S, Day Committee to counter- 1 December 1963
act the forthcoming UN Day program on 2h

October at which Adlai Stevenson was heckled.

Speaker at the U.S. Day rally was Major

Genecal Edwin A. Walker of Dallas. Robert A.

SURREY, a WALKER aide, rented the auditorium

for the rally.

-8-


25 Octeber 1963

1 November 1963

1 November (7)

9 November 1963

EVENT REFERENCE
On 25 Octeber 1963 OSWALD accompanied New York Times
Michael R. PAINE to a meeting of the TI December 1963

Civil Liberties Union.

On 1 November 1963 Marina OSWALD advised Soviet Consular File

the Seviet Consular Sectien of her new
address, P. 0. Box 6225, Dallas, Texas.

In an undated letter to the Censular Section Soviet Consular File

of the Soviet Embassy in Washington, D, C.,
mailed from Irving, Texas on 1 November 1963
Marina OSWALD apologized for her delay in
writing to explain her reasons for desiring
to return to the USSR. She stated that she had
been unable to do so for "family reasons."
Shen then stated that her. husband now desired
to return to the USSR with her. She said
that she was "homesick" for the USSR, and that
her husband was frequently unemployed making
things very difficult for them. She stated
that she wished to live in Leningrad where
she had a sister and a brother of her mother's
second marriage and where she grew up. She
also felt that she would be able to find
work more readily in Leningrad as there were
more pharmacies there.

‘ile

On 9 November 1963 OSWALD wrote to the Consular soviet Consular Fil

Division of the Soviet Embassy in Washington,

D. C., stating that he had seen "Comrade KOSTIN"
in Mexico. He explained that he was not able

to remain in Mexico indefinitely because he

he could not request a new visa without using
his "real name." He added, "had he been able

to reach the Soviet Embassy in Havana as planned,
the embassy there would have had time to complete
"eur business." OSWALD stated that he had been
interviewed by.the FBI on 1 November in Dallas,
Texas, and warned not to engage in any F.P.C.C.
activities. He added that the FBI agent had
stated that Marina OSWALD could remain in the
United States under FBI "protection," and that

-9-


13-00000

DATE

9 November 1963
cont.

1 December 1963

EVENT

she could "defect" from the Soviet Union.
OSWALD claimed that his wife had strengly
"protested" these tactics. In closing
OSWALD stated that his wife had given birth
to a daughter, Audrey Marina OSWALD, on

20 October 1963.

On 1 December 1963 Soviet Ambassador
Anateliy F. Dobrynin turned over to
Secretary of State Dean RUSK, a Soviet
Censuler file on OSWALD.

-10-

REFERENCE

Soviet Consular File

Washingten Post
jacember 1963


13-00000

1961
March-April

1962
Bane

1963
Spring

1963
1963
10 May

2h October 1963

November 1963

hopenday B
EVENT

Shortly aftér OSWALD met Marina OSWALD
in Minsk, he was hospitalized because
he had "some trouble with his ears".

Sometime in June, 1962, OSWALD visited
the Fort Worth Library where a Russian
language class is conducted as a civic
project. OSWALD sought the names of
persons he might use as references in
trying te finda job as a translator.
A Fort Worth engineer who teaches the
class said that OSWALD spoke Russian
fluently but not grammatically.

OSWALD began taking typing lessona at
the Dallas Evening School.

Sometime in the early part of May, 1963,
OSWALD approached E. H. WILLIAMS,
director of the Louisiana and Mississippi
region for the AFL-CIO office for a job.

OSWALD started work as an oiler and
maintanance man in a New Orleans

coffee warehouse on 10 May but was dismissed

on 19 July for incompetence.

OSWALD attended the UN Day rally en 25
October 1963 at which U. 5. Ambassador
to the United Nations, Adlai STEVENSON,
spoke.

At the time of the assassination of
President Kennedy, OSWALD had been

REFERENCE

FBI interview of
Marina OSWALD
€0-2-3h,030 Page 9

New York Times
10 ig

FBI interview of
Marina OSWALD
ic 19

New York Times
T December 1963

New York Times
T December 1963

Washington Post
5 December 1963

FBI interview of
Oswald

residinng at 1026 N. Beckley Street, Dallas, 23 November 1963

Texas, under the name of 0. H. LEE,
for a period of about five weeks.


1963
November

EVENT

Atte time of his arrest OSWALD was
carrying a wallet containing a
Selective Service card in the name of
"Alek James HIDELL," which bore
OSWALD's photograph

REFERENCE

EBI interview
of OSWALD
23 Nov 1963
