"85720 /25 : tees T. : ERP Se
ue lo4- 2066 - pook
Ln +). STAFF

‘CONF: C/EA=B ‘INFO FILE, VR, DDO, C/CA*3, C/CCS, “C/CI=4," C/EPS/EG,
E/IP/OMS, C/PCS/INT, C/SIA/FL, 000/00, ODPD=Dy OGC=2, OLE
“(28/P)

| Sew meme ewew mewn et ewe noon mnoooeeesee:

ee ee ereeremennnoeees

78 0472194 angie : PAGE 001 : oe
2803052 MAR 78 DIRECTOR: 195505

Seow ensoscen

aeweee:

SECRET

STAFF 2803052 Director 195505 XO NOD REPRODUCE! .

TO: . PRIORITY

WNINTEL RYBAT TAPPER RETURN TO CIA 4

THE FOLLOWING ARTICLE WRITTEN BY NICHOLAS M, HORROCK APPEARED
IN THE NEW YORK TIMES ON 27 MARCH 1978, (FYI © THE
NAMES GIVEN TO_THE COMMITTEE BY WILCOTT INCLUDED THE FOLLOWING
GEORGE BREEN, EL R BREEN, WILLIAM V, BROE, JIM DELANEY, JERRY
FOX, ROBERT..S, IMA; CHESTER 1T0, ELWOOD D, (PETE) MARTIN,
BOB OJTRI, FREDERICK RANDALL, JACK RANDALL, KAN TAKAI, DORIS
WATANABE, LARRY WATANABE, JIM WOODS, LOUISE WOODS, PETE WHEELER, AND
SHIZUO YAMADA, PLEASE NOTE THESE NAMES WERE NOT GIVEN IN THE
ARTICLE, AND AS FAR AS WE ARE AWARE, ARE NOT AVAILABLE
. TO THE PUBLIC.)

quote
= OSWALD LINK TO C.I.A, SUGGESTED AT INQUIRY

EX=EMPLOYEE OF AGENCY TELLS PANEL THAT HE HEARD OSWALD WAS AN
OPERATIVE IN JAPAN IN THE 'SO0'S

BY NICHOLAS M, HORROCK

SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES

WASHINGTON, MARCH 26e=A FORMER FINANCE OFFICER FOR THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY HAS TESTIFIED BEFORE THE HOUSE SELECT
COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS THAT HIS COLLEAGUES HAD TOLD HIM. THAT
LEE HARVEY OSWALD WAS A SECRET OPERATIVE FOR THE AGENCY IN cess
IN THE LATE 1950'S,

THE WITNESS, JAMES B, WILCOTT, WHO SAID THAT HE HAD SERVED
IN LOW@LEVEL JOBS WITH THE C.1,A, FROM 1957 THROUGH APRIL 1966,¢
CONTENDED IN AN INTERVIEW THAT CONVERSATIONS WITH COLLEAGUES IN
THE AGENCY'S TOKYO STATION AFTER PRFSIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION
ON NOV. 22, 1963 CONVINCED HIM THAT OSWALD, -WHO HAD BEEN RECRUITED
BY THE AGENCY TO INFILTRATE THE SOVIET UNION AND SERVED AS A MARINE
IN THE FAR EAST.

MR. WILCOTT, WHO ACKNOWLEDGED THAT HIS MEMORY OF EVENTS 15
‘a SECRET

O4T9


SECRET

STAFF

78 0472194 PAGE 002
. TOT: 260305Z MAR 78 DIRECTOR. 195505

Pewee coer mene sees meee rene eee wena ete ene en cen men ese eewn ener wens ewenatoenseenane

“YEARS AGO WAS” OFTEN SKETCHY, SAID THAT HE TESTIFIED UNDER OATH

AT A CLOSED SESSION OF THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON WEDNESDAY, SUPPLYING
THE NAMES OF SEVERAL OFFICIALS OF THE C,J.A, WHO MIGHT BE ABLE

TO GIVE FURTHER DETAILS ON THE MATTER,

ROBERT. BLAKEY, THE CHIEF COUNSEL AND STAFF DIRECTOR OF THE
COMMITTEE, DECLINED TO COMMENT ON THE TESTIMONY, HOWEVER, AN
INTERIM REPORT ISSUED BY THE COMMITTEE INDICATED THATr ALTHOUGH
THE STAFF HAD CONDUCTED SOME 1/400 FIELD INTERVIEWS, THE
COMMITTEE CHOSE TO FLY RELATIVELY FORMAL, SWORN TESTIMONY LIKE THAT
SUPPLIED BY MR, WILCOTT,

PROJECTS CALLED “CRYPTOS"
ACCORDING TO SEVERAL SOURCES, THE COMMITTEE WAS INVESTIGATING
MR, WILCOTT'S TESTIMONY, i BS
‘ MR, WILCOTT SAID THAT HE JOINED THE C.I.A, AS A LOW-RANKING
FINANCE OFFICER IN 1957 AND WAS SENT TO TOKYO IN 1960, AT THE
TOKYO STATION, WHICH WAS IN A BUILDING THAT OSTENSIBLY HOUSED
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE PERSONNEL, MR, WILCOTT SAID, HIS
RESPONSIBILITIES INCLUDED MAKING CASH DISBURSEMENTS FOR PROJECTS
IDENTIFIED ONLY BY CODE NAMES CALLED *CRYPTOS,"

HE SAID THAT HIS WIFE WAS A CLERICAL EMPLOYEE OF THE AGENCY
AT THAT TIME AND THAT HE STOOD "WATCH SHIFTS" TO EARN EXTRA MONEY,

MR. WILCOTT SAID THAT ALTHOUGH THE TRADITIONS AND THE
REGULATIONS OF THE AGENCY SEPARATED MEMBERS OF THE SUPPORT STAFF
SUCH AS HIMSELF FROM INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS AND OTHER OFFICIALS,
HE FRATERNIZED WITH OPERATIONAL PERSONNEL WHILE HE WAS ON NIGHT}
WATCH DUTY, IN OCCASIONAL OFF=DUTY CONVERSATIONS AND AT THE
TELLER'S CAGE WHERE HE MADE HIS DISBURSEMENTS.

HE SAID THAT IN THE MONTHS AFTER KENNEDY'S DEATH HE HAD
SEVERAL CONVERSATIONS WITH PERSONNEL INVOLVED IN COVERT OPERATIONS,
THOSE TALKS, HE SAID, CONVINCED HIM THAT OSWALD, WHO HAD BEEN
STATIONED AT ATSUGI AIR BASE, JAPAN, HAD BEEN RECRUITED TO INFILTRATE
THE. SOVIET, UNION AS. A SPY, :

ONLY, .ONE..CONVERSATION

: MR. WILCOTT SAID THAT HE COULD RECALL ONLY ONE SPECIFIC
CONVERSATION,: WHICH OCCURRED SHORTLY AFTER JACK RUBY SHOT OSWALD
IN. DALLAS, IN. AN. ACCOUNT: OF THE CONVERSATION THAT HE PREPARED FOR -
PUBLICATION, MR, WILCOTT NOTED, 'I WAS TALKING WITH SOMEONE, I
CAN'T RECALL. WHO FOR SURE, AND I EXPRESSED DISBELIEF ABOUT OSWALD
ING I WAS TOLD SOMETHING LIKE, "WELL,



SECRET.

Pres eeewwnnweeecom mn ewneee recone nceeeacconsneoces:

78 0472194 PAGE .003
TOT: 2603052 MAR 78

DIRECTOR 195505

oa on won gr en eo aw en ow SS ae om

wone

JIM, SO AND SO DREW AN ADVANCE SOMETIME IN THE PAST FROM YOU FOR
OSWALD!. OR ‘FOR THAT PROJECT UNDER SUCH AND SUCH A CRYPTO,"

"IT WAS A FAMILIAR CRYPTONYM TO ME AT THE TIME, WHICH I
HAVE SINCE FORGOTTEN, AS WELL AS THE TIME THAT THE ADVANCE OF
* FUNDS WAS DRAWN," HE WROTE, .

THERE APPEAR TO BE SEVERAL DISCREPANCIES IN THE RECOLLECTIONS
OF MR, WILCOTT, A. GRAY*HAIRED MAN OF MEDIUM HEIGHT, FOR INSTANCE
HE REMEMBERED HAVING LEARNED OF THE KENNEDY’ ASSASSINATION ON AN
AFTERNOON FLIGHT OF A PRIVATE PLANE, HOWEVER, KENNEDY WAS. SHOT
AT MIDDAY IN DALLAS, WHICH WOULD HAVE BEEN EARLY THE NEXT MORNING
IN JAPAN,

OSWALD SERVED IN THE FAR EAST FROM 1957 UNTIL NOVEMBER 1958
- AND WAS DISCHARGED FROM THE MARINE CORPS BEFORE MR, WILCOTT WAS
SENT TO TOKYO, MR, WILCOTT SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN TOLD THAT OSWALD
HAD BEEN TAKEN TO JAPAN FOR QUESTIONING AFTER RETURNING FROM THE
SOVIET UNION IN 1962,

INTEREST IN RUSSIAN

See THERE HAS BEEN SPECULATION ABOUT WHETHER OSWALD CAME UNDER
THE CONTROL OF THE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY IN JAPAN, IN A RECENT BOOK,
"LEGEND, THE SECRET WORLD OF LEE HARVEY OSWALD," EDWARD JAY EPSTEIN
DESCRIBES OSWALD'S INTEREST IN THE RUSSIAN LANGUAGE AND HIS
STRANGE CONTACTS WITH JAPANESE CIVILIANS,

BUT OFFICIALS OF THE AGENCY HAVE DENIED UNDER OATH HAVING
EVER RECRUITED, TRAINED OR MANIPULATED OSWALO, AND FORMER SENIOR
OFFICIALS OF THE AGENCY HAVE ANGRILY DENOUNCED AS IRRESPONSIBLE
ATTEMPTS TO CONNECT THE AGENCY TO THE ASSASSINATION,

THE AGENCY WILL NOT SAY WHETHER IT HAS EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS,
MR. WILCOTT SAID THAT AFTER LEAVING TOKYO IN JUNE 1964 HE SERVED
AT THE AGENCY'S OFFICES IN ROSSLYN, VAs AT THE MAIN HEADQUARTERS
IN MCLEAN, VA,, AND AT THE STATION IN MIAMI, HE SAID THAT HE
RESIGNED IN APRIL 1966,

MR, WILCOTT SAID THAT AFTER LEAVING THE AGENCY HE BECAME
ACTIVE IN THE MOVEMENT AGAINST THE VIETNAM WAR AND DEVELOPED AN
INTEREST IN LEFT=wING POLITICAL CAUSES, HE SAID THAT HE BEGAN
CIRCULATING HIS ACCOUNT OF THE CONVERSATIONS CONCERNING. OSWALD
SEVERAL YEARS AGO BUT THAT THEY WERE NEVER PUBLISHED,

ACCORDING TO ONE SOURCE, THE HOUSE COMMITTEE LEARNED ABOUT
a SECRET


SECRET
STAFF
Wee rcerenemee en ew ewer nner en et eneeneeseeeeer essere eane renner ant escenecnsaene
78 0472194 PAGE 004
i TOT: 280305Z MAR 78 DIRECTOR 195505

Seem eet e www nw ene w en ew ener n eter ewe teen west ewes seen emer emmeaneneoreetooemseecce

“WR, WILCOTT'S: STORY FROM PHILIP. AGEE, A FORMER AGENT. OF THE C.1eA.

WHO PUBLISHED SEVERAL YEARS AGO A BOOK ATTACKING THE AGENCY'S
OPERATIONS .IN LATIN AMERICA,

MR, WILCOTT WAS REPRESENTED AT THE COMMITTEE HEARING

“BY WILLIAM.H, SCHAAP, ONE OF MR, AGEE’S LAWYERS,

UNQUOTE, NO FILE, £2 IMPDET,>
ORIG CEA/J (GATELY X1388 27 MAR 78) COORD CEA/STE (DOREY)
DCEA (BUELL) SA/DO/0 (GREGG)
REL: CEA/J (GATELY). CL BY 019522,

