SINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992}

|104-10249-10016|
ee

H ST
IH oT

“UO Q00'S ep oneu O;varwpun;
Ugroeajuniuos ep anew oquarwipun,

309 LT
O89,

b 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSAS:
7 : MICs NYE:

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

WNATEL EH, Ae ewce Ro doeref
C- 9RbR

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM: _

DELETIONS, IF ANY: CACUL¢TY  paWE ST? YF? Onl =

A atta cat eee ad nin,

tulsa Siete i a nt

NO DOCUMENTS NAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

au

— armen en SETS REB ERS TS


Het

ealatecas

ware



mY

a3
B
&
h
ry
H
&
&
5
q
4

H

4

wy oa

_ SECRET
pine xo. 29/- 30999

NOTICE TO: DIVISION PERSONKEL REVIEWING THIS FILE

Please couplete the folloving steps:

1. NAME OF REVIEWER (lease print) o C N Co View

2. OFFICE DESIGNATION OF REVIEWER: LA | Vt CA

3

DATE OF REVIEW 24. Dee 26

4, Do you contemplate @tesemination of information revieved: YC’

(J to fieia

[[7} to another US Government Agency (if 80, to whom)

The Gissemination of any Office of Security investigative inforzation,

| fneluding FBI reports, must be coordinated with CI/OA and the Office
{of Security.

Comments:
i
).
DO NOT REMOVE THE ATTACHED FOLDER FROM CI/OA
FORM 9930 ee

a-70 fue SECRET i (9-21-40)



SPEEDLETTER 7

LETTER NO.

X{ves [x0 C~ 98263 /201- 30999

FROM: = CI/OA
Paul Marine, 2B1L, 21558

; a |

sunjnct; —WICHTRICH, Alfonso Rudolph

(1) A review of CI/OA records reflects that Subject was of interest
to MW/3} OA dated 10 Oot 62 (LTEVFF) «
f (2) CI/OA requests that the responsible desk inform CI/OA by

reply whether this case is still active, or whether C1/OA may
cancel and retire its folder,

COA
WH/1

WICHTRICH, Alfonso Rudolph

(1) Case ts:
a Active ( )
be Inactive (X) 6 ocr 172 :

(2) CI/OA may/2%xx2t cancel and retire Subject file.

ee


j SECRETARAT DISSEMINATION CiassirieD Messane. Tota. Cones ROUTING AND/OR WATS - SEEN BY
SECRET ~=+ air, at

(When Filed la)

Kiama WOT

Bes
ar =

Poe ea" a ea

wox 0 ves 0 wo

cLassiY 10 ri HO.

HRA 10 FE NO

00 Cnet 10

tee i
Gs vane LC) -rcon me OCS 2 S05 =
7
BAS Jf
SECRET 152300 JUL 68 CITE MEXICO CITY 6279
OR
neha 15 Ja 68 1n5086
REF’ MEXICO CITY 5648 ic 156%)

t. FOR LONG RANGE PERSONNEL PLANNING PURPOSES, WISH
POINT OUT THAT POSITION OF PUBLIC RELATIONS DIRECTOR vty 5 JUL, Sb
ub
_ AMERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE, MEXICO CITY, (MENTIONED rer) & ; s

4S STILL OPEN. JOB GIVES ACCESS LOCAL PRESS, RADIO, TV, ae i .
ae eget Tage Ve
BUSINESS AND POLITICAL ‘CIRCLES’ AND WOULD PROVIDE IDEAL ao

ACCESS COVER FOR AN OUTSIDE STATION CASE OFFICER FOR BOTH
! CA AND FI PURPOSES. WORK LOAD IS SUCH THAT SEVERAL
PER DAY CCULD BE DEVOTED TO worn REQUIREMENTS
SUPERVISOR WOULD BE STATION ASSETALI EPS-Aio vous COOP ‘

ERATE FULLY WITH CURTIS IN PLACING A WOFIRM CANDIDATE int

re :
STAND IN BACK “STOPPING COVER, | CANDIDATE WOULD NEED GooDk -

i

{

H

| SPANISH, PUBLIC RELATIONS AND WRITING EXPERIENCE AND SHOULD
BE CLEAN COVER-WISE. JOB SUITABLE NOT ONLY FOR OLDER PER-

| SONNEL IN POTENTIAL EARLY RETIREMENT BRACKET, BUT ALSO FOR
BRIGHT YOUNG CAREER Bivee WITH PROPER QUALIFICATIONS.

| SALARY NEGOTIABLE BETWEEN U.S. $10,800 - $12,020 PER YEAR.

| PLEASE ADVISE PROMPTLY IF ANY INTEREST SO STATION CAN

a



Foret.

te
: [ywccr

re

|
|
|
t,

Cussep vessiae + _ Tota. Comes. ROUTING ANO/OR INITULS - SEEN BY

SECRET

{Whee Filled ln)

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION.
PIRSON/GHT ROTTS.

aa a Pe a

Deane oy Pen

rue. “=

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 62798 EC RET
ASSURE THAT POSITION STAYS VACANT.
2. ALSO SUGGEST CONSIDERATION BE GIVEN PLACING MINIMUM
OF TWO CAREER TRAINEES IN UNAM FOR LANGUAGE/AREA ORIENTATION
TRAINING OVER MININU“TWO-YEAR PERIOD WITH FURTHER OBJECTIVE
PROVIDING STATION CONTINUING CONTROLLED ACCESS Toca. STUDENT
SITUATION TO AUGMENT CURRENT LICOAX caeRace. ANOTHER TRAINEE
SHOULD, BE DIRECTED TO ENROLL IN CUERNAVACA CATHOLIC cIDoc,
CENTER DIRECTED BY MONSIGNOR IVAN D. ILLICH WITH VIEW TO . :
PENETRATING AND REPORTING OW MEXICAN AND LATIN AMERICAN REVOLU- :
TIONARY PRIESTS MOVEMENT, AS POINTED OUT BOOK DISPATCK-6502
OF 16 MAY 1968 THIS MVEMENT ASSUMING INCREASING IMPORANCE
IN LATIN SOCIETIES AND SHOULD BE CLOSELY MONITORED, PREFERABLY
FROM WITHIN. — =
SECRET os
Br

‘ees



= wt 05303 |

Coble. Cons" Keter, nor.

Coble. _icient ified as.
x Bet _t sevtushenKoOp!

te Maceh £8 IN 699 38
aod anes
Id March te 2 IN 699 AL

i Filed jo Fi des
RIGOR LAL 0: 9oLhQ

and

ep ania RIAL LUC CH= Ablo7 il
= 7 2

5
L



A

i

i:

- ABOUT JANES* GETTING SOME FINANCIAL HELP FROM U.S. BUSINESSMEN
“IN MEXICO. re een

IRIE IIIs
cullen MESSAGE rorat_ cortes if 0-9926P :

REPROOLCT 10M PRONIGITED

SECRET 2419302 CITE MEXICO CITY 3576

PRIORITY DIRECTOR

REF: MEXICO, CIT, 1NT49O2
1, (Barrel _sares\ aovrsen WILCARD C. CURTI

HE WOULD SIGN CONTRACT WITH STEIN AND DAY/ PUBLISHERS, ON

23 NOVEMBER FOR HIS BOOK ON CHE, SAID CHANGED FROM PRAEGER TO

STEIN AMD DAY BECAUSE LATTER OFFERED HYM “BETTER DEAL” FINANCIALLY,

PROMISED "BOOK CLUB” ARRANGEMENT, AND MANT PUT HIS BOOK IN SPRING :

CATALOG. JAMES SAID STEIN AND DAY FARLY NEW BUT AN “UP AND

COMING" COMPANY, HAVING RECENTLY pUALISHED KAZAN'S BEST SELLER,

“THE ARPANGEMENT™.

ON 22 NOVEMBER

2. JAMES SAID HE WANTS DEPART FOR LA PAZ, BOLIVIA 1 DECEMBER
AND WOULD LIKE WOFIRM HELP IN SEGURING CHE DOCUMENTS AND IN ARRANG-
ING INTERVIEWS WITH PERSONS WHO KNEW CHE IN BOLIVIA. SAID HE

MIGHT ALSO WISH GO BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA, TO TRY SEE MEMBERS

982

7 3
3. JANES HAS TALKED\LINUFF-1 WHO REPORTEDLY ENCOURAGING

CHE’S FAMILY.

4. CURTIS LIMITED COMMENT TO JAMES TO PROMISE SIMPLY
REPORT FOREGOING AND TO ASK WHETHER WOFIRM WILLING GIVE JAMES



fe

: ict SRCRET

Face 2 PEXICO CITY 3576 SECRET
SUPPORT REQUESTED PARA 2 AND IN REF.
5S. WOULD APPRECIATE EARLY ADVICE.
SECRET

SRS
SECRE



oe ; a Comp ees |

( euassine ve eras a0
pete ty rue wt.

et ens acs. ro exes:

asters Osie.

SE CREF 2517302 CITE MEXICO CITY 8337 3428838154
DIRECTOR

LIRUS
REFERENCE: HNMS-4753 OF 23 MAY 1956
1. FOLLOWIHG GROUP FROM U.S; CHARBER OF COMMERCE MEXICO CITY
FlLau 2E IN ¥ASHINGTCN FOR MEETINGS FGR WEEK BEGINNING 1 MAY:
&e HARRY L. FREEMAN, PRESIDENT CF CHAWSER; PARTNER IN PRICE,
WATERHOUSE & COMPAHY OF MEXICO;
B, MAM HEALEY, DIRECTOR GENERAL, COMPANIA MEXICO DE AVIACIONs :
+ C, JGEW LUMPXIE, PARTNER, ARTHUR ANDERSON & COMPANY DE MEXICO;

etuiitid £.C3Ub3 austik, LAWYER;

=. WELLARD BEESON, DELTEC CORP.3;

F. RCBERT RANSOM, WITH FLOYD D. RANSS

2. Ait KECWE TO COS.
Se SROUP FROM LAST YEAR HAVE REPEATEDLY STATED WOFACT BRIEFING
WAS “HIGH LIGHT OF TRIP” AND "BY FAR BEST AND MOST INTERESTING

SECRET

SESSICS* OF LAST YEARS VISIT.
4. GROUP REQUESTS, IF POSSIBLE, BRIEFINGS BY WOFACTERS OW



.
Pass 2 EKICG CITY 2987 SECRET StGrET
AFTERSOOS 2 MAY. WOULD GREATLY APPRECIATE LUHCHEON FRIOR TO : 1
FRIEFISG AS PER LAST SEBTZNCE PARA 3 OF REFERENCE. B :
Se VICHIRICH PLASS ARRIVE WASHINGTON HiLTCH ON 23 APRIL$
WILL HOPE HAVE CALL FROM THOMAS We °.UND.
6. COS WOULD GREATLY APPRECIATE AS FULL BRIEFING AS CAN
GIVE TO THIS GROUP OF HELFFLL CONTACTS.

SECRET
Br SECHET

|

1

\ :
NROG

{



|
|

are

ce en mt RENE

aoe ~ _

~ tr Ores Deo
cuasstrY To FHKE ao.

ance Yo rite wo.

rie 0100) act, e ewance

oesteor Date.

‘ABVAREE COPY

Dvsoeo Chrcorres DH) rosee
Fb aosd ases

are
fie VR Br,

SECRET 2517302 CITE MEXICO CITY 2988 : :
DIRECTOR a Shai 838169
LinuM i
REFERENCE: MEXICO CITY os07(v 38/54. 4
IDENTITY 1 (D) 1S PHILIP TESSAROLO (P). i cs
C299 R63
IDENTITY 1 CH) IS(LINUFFZ{,

SECRET i
BY j
SECRET



Zz

Ny =

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE sore coves BF

‘abvance cory

Dersves Dhacerres Desc

g he
19837
Hab? 12837

1 IDEN BD
sew Suen WRITER AND INTELLECTUAL CINTIO VITIEN FROW SEVERAL MUTUAL
FRIENDS. L=1 REPORTED VITIER PLANS COME MEXICO FUR LATIN AMERICAN
WRITER'S CONGRESS CA APRIL 1967.

2. STATION FILES SHOW ONLY THAT A CYNTHIA VITIER BOLANOS FLEW
FROM HEXICO CITY TO HAVANA 25 AUG 61. REQUEST ADDEE TRACES.
gb ECRE : ai t

|
i



&

3 oe)
whee Tare Ca
vere EL YLLEE. _ CARI COPY | Ci issere Chaverree Chrvees

a a) an
woes Oves Duo
CLASSIFY To Fite BO. CLASSIFIED wessice f sora corits 2

SECRET

waar vo rite

SECRET 9302052 CITE MEXICO CITY 9556 iach
VW NN 279e i
DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE

:
REF MEXICO CITY asss(qe (249) 995 :
IDEN A IS NR: RUDOLPH ALFONSO WICKTRICH, U.S. BUSINESSMAN 1N
HEXicO CITY. “IDEN B IS MR. MaUEL CAVILLO, MEXICAN INTELLECTUAL AND
EMPLOYEE MEX MIN OF SOCIAL SECURITY.

SECRET a) :

St :



corfiimed hat
Rare

Fates nsened

WA/se
Bia Dogster els a

Te nee

from
for Ad Hos

wl bis date.

~heo Dunn
beiekg

4
. He Mawes as

foot 0

ONL, Undsrnirve

turd

40 bee. it
WH/1 |

by Al PhefaPCA és not the op} on
eae
te ee IN 8548 ,073 attaslsd)

FETS eee tl luli (elle!

oat locg_14 BPR veg
Deputy Director for Plans [-},, :

Chief, CI Staff pathy a ri c- 73 74!
Chief, PI/OPS couie C-F 76 43

Headquarters Briefing for Representatives

1, ‘This menorandm 18 for your information only.C- 7/ 6/5

2, The Chief of Station Mexico has advised that a
group, representing the American Chanber of Cosserco ta C~/G03 76
Mexico City, vill be in Washington 30 April through :
“4 May to attend the 1966 National Conforence of tho U.8.
Chamber of Cozmerce. The Chief of Station Mexico hag
requested that Headquarters representatives neet and
brief tho delegation concerning recent developzents
within the cornunist movements in Latin America and, of
more specific intorost, prosent Soviet, ChiCon and
Satellite objectives and activities in Mexico.

3. A sinilar group was briefed by Mr. PitzGerald,
then Chief, ¥H Division, and W.J, Kaufman Chief, Wi/l,
on 22 April 1965, This year, because of my scheduled
absenco on a trip to Latin Amorica, it is proposed that :
Mr. Estorline, Deputy Chief of WH Division and -
Mr. Kauzman, Chief Mexico Branch, *H Division will meet
and brief them on the rorning of 3 May, The delegation
will be mot at the main entrance and escorted to 1 D 0415
for the bricfing which should not t2ke more than one hour
and a half, It ig not planned at present to take any
jeaber of this delogation to any other office in the i
eadquartors building and thera has hoon no request for
meetings with the Director of Central Intelligence or
hig immediate staff, :

4. ‘of the Mexico Brauch, WE
1. Division, Ww: e the Control Officer for this visit and - :

may be contacted for any additional information required
On x4523/4524 or Red 9322,

tet Note for Reed’ Afk Mturtins He His proposal pau ae
pad feo puwm, SO/ Persenntl Seeuatty Di Ria 341, iar :
bf -Wiiiiam V, Broo
‘ Chief,
,Tastead itaan ean MOSSE Bese ee Petia
i bio to Leo Durm, SC/PSD, for Procottong of Ap ice (Scomta
Clepraners, Geek firr On tine py hh be based pisenat

Gp flee US. CLE V2 ena (idockfa

eee eye ernie ware

Hilo, ches, Daan Soule pices cf 10 Aa ep healing a
TEhe 3 thcet Rane Gain OAs. Uitge

ie
ie

of the Mexico City American Chamber
Connerce oC 992 zy

i
i
ae
I:

t
if

a



See ele ky

wae tore

SECRET 2923357

DIR CITE NEXI 6690 j

a : Beets aecuatee oe

REF “MEXI 3021 2AR : : ‘ i ‘
he FOLLOWING MEMBERS OF AMERICAN CHASER OF COMMERCE (MEX1C09 .

PLAN ATTEWD WAT IONAL MEET ING OF U.sS. CHAISER OF COMMERCE IN

WASHINGTON SO APRIL TO 4 Nays ALL KNOWN TO COS. ° : ‘|

MICHAEL S. HAZZARD, "pres U.S. CKAMBER OF COMMERCE

ene c09 AND GEN MGR belated DE MEXICO, SeAe

Bs VILLIAN a UNDERWOOD 5 VICE PRES ANDERSON CLAYTON &

“WARY L. ‘preemie PARTWER PRICE WATER HOUSE & o.
Me,
“sox Pe nosratiy ‘ASST REP, BANK OF AMER ICA.

‘news Se STRINGER JR, PRES STRINGER & ASOCIADOS, “
[wa ~ 88643

‘a Re WICHIRICH, EXEC VICE PRES, U.S. CHAFBER OF
* COMMERCE WEXIO0). c- ate ae
sow Luna, “PART NER, ARTHUR ALDERSEW & 0D.

INES WRDAGY, MO, DIR; YRION CARBIDE MEXICANA, SiAy ©
oi SeIVen, vice MES. % STERLE & CIs Soke , raat:
: “Ee er 7/563 RBEOTE, ea



Pe : “gueaet

AGE 2 MEXI GE9B SECRET

. de oD » LAUYER, GOODRICH DALTOR LITTLE & a
AIGUELES. : C-7137A1

1M 1964 OLIVER G, GALBOND BRIEFED SEVERAL OF ABOVE AND
IW 1965 CHESTER D. DAINOLD GAVE BRIEFING OR 98949), SIMILAR
TYPE BRIEFINGS ARE REQUESTED TO BE GIVEN, IF POSSIBLE, OW
TVESDAY MORNING, S MAY. ANOTHER MEETING IS SCHEDULED FOR 1215
AT SHERATON-PaRK. 1 a . : :

3, IF BRIEFING PRACTICABLE, mis suscesteD IT BE ALO
LINES hil diese BRIEFINGS, I.E. COMMUNISM IN LATIN AMER ICA y
"Coverage oF “Soviet CHICOM AND SATELLITE OBJECT IVES, ACTIVITIES,
AND THREAT IN MEXICO. GROUP WOULD BE PARTICULARLY INTERESTED IN
__ Hav i UBAR K* S ESTIMATE OF CHA'GES IN SITUATIOM LATIN mien
vit EMPHASIS on CENTRAL AMERICA aD MEXICO DURING PAST YEAR.
Ae. For Was INFO GROUP Has Luvereon ON 2 MAY WITH UNDER
SERETARY, “THONAS MANN, ASSISTANT SECRETARY LINCOLN GORDON,
: TERRENCE LEONHARDY (MEXICAN AFFAIRS) AND 2. BRADERMAN.”
>. PLEASE ADVISE. WOULD APPRECIATE NAME ‘oF CONTACT If



=) i

rad :

th) pes
Decal’ A SECRE?
Orwra

Gs 4 65 mat NO. 50~)

A265 23 O72

REFS: A, HMMA 25728" 23 APR g 255),
B. DIR 9977436 ae
° MHSPAYN  LINUFP

. LIHUFF APPROVED 20 APRIL 6: FoR $75Q0 LAST mip tf 65.

DECISION AS DISCUSSED IN JAN os! wre STATION IS TO TERMINATE
BY JUXZ 65 ALL SUBSIDIES TO auto. IN EVENT [exuurr-2)
RETAINED ON PAYROLL IN FY 66 5) ‘ATION SHOULD RENEW LIHUFF

a SUPPORT PROJECT ORD PLACE) L~1 \UNDER OTHER PROJECT,

E 4 ¥R6

END OF MESSAG!

WH Corment: The Station would appreciate a response to the

status of the LIWUFF project and what has been the final
Gecision, ** Ploase advise effective date LIHUFF-1 NOC
hange, Expect for second half FY 65 $2500 for L-l salary.



a

rom, Mexico Gy

> -

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TO 1 DIRECTOR

acon, suf F
wo; Ho%5, fice Ve

SECRET 2520962

oO

DIR CITE MEXE 9164
1, AMB FREEMAN REPORTEDLY PLANS ESTABLISH GROUP SOME TWENTY U.S.
EVISORS OR “CONTACT SROUP".

AND IDZN A HAVE BOTH ASKED COS IF POSSIBLE FOR KUBAnK
FURNISH EXPERT LECTURER FOR ATJLEAST FIVE “EARLY aaeaifisst™
LECTURES ON COMMUNISM,

3. COS CAN CONTROL INDIVIDUAL ENROLLEES AKD NUMBERS, BOTH
LIHUFF/1 AND. IDSY A HAVE HOS CLEARANCES.

& cA TIE PaRA } INTO XEQUEST SHOULD Hos pedsace FURNISH LEcTuRER
for WEPK.

5. LECTURER CaN[USE PSZUDO IF Has ¥ISHES.

63 APPRECIATE CASLED REACTION. *

“SECRET
; pete e
SECRET eS
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED: Copy No.

eeebermmnRER Cnnee iin:

i
H
'
;
7
i
i
i
i



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

4, SECRET - co
. 21 ist H
oO + DIRECTOR 31 ié :

FROM x JHERICO Oly
action: US .
mo , Opts sped cfu) R :

S ERC R EST 2522027
pir cite wéx1 9165
REF MEXI 9164 (IM CF S9@

cewe fan MOTORS DE MEXICO,
SECRET

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED

shih AO ISGT

IDEN A ~ ¥R. RICHAR EHRLICH, MANAGING DIRECTOR

No.

