# 104-10171-10038

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10171;10038

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURNTO CÍA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproducer

"*.

DISPATCH

Chief, Task force W

CLASHUICAINN

S-E-C-R-E-T

HROCESSING.

CAM ANTIL INDIUITO

ABSTRACT

Chief of Station, JHAVE

Mimeno

SUIT OPCTATION T/GYROSE/KUCAGE/ANTINT

Debriefing of DRE Chief of Action & Sabotage

ACTION MIQUIRLD AUERLACES

Action: FYI and files

Juir ls Wnd

CIT CURa:

3. La 27 2'* FARINAS RuIZ,

JAWAVE debriefed:

Lazaro L.

born 9_ October 1942 in Baez,

Las villas Province,-Cuba,

Subject resided at Calle 30 No. 224, Vedado, La Habana

prior to departure for the U.S.

currently regiding at0521 Sw oth streets Apt. No. 1, miami:

Although subject arrived 21 March on a Pid flight

he passed through Miami and went on to New York, thus delaying WAVE

opcrational

FARINAS was National Chief of Action and Sabotage in the

clandestine apparat of the Directoria. Revolucionario

Estudlantil (DRE)

until carly: Narch 1962 when he was replaced by Laurcano PEQUENO laka

•"Líno").

Subject had becone exposed and sought asylum and departure

conduct to Mexico City.

Subject described his tenure in general as having been fairly

active with good production considering the mtertel and GOC repressive

He traveled quite freely; from lavann to Pinar del Rio.,

to Camaguey on to Santiago in Oriente Province:

This was possible

mainly because of his gencral appearance since although he 1s 20 years

Distribution:

3 - C/TFW

HEISTEEL

74-859-8643

pid:

"CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSONCATION

S-E-C-R-E-T

17-1:0-19

19120-19-

DATE TYPED

DATE OISPATCHED

JUN

4 June 1962

$ 1958

DISPATON SALBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA - 4253

MEADQUARTERS FILE MUMBER

19-120-19/3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

_CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

• S-E-C-R-E-T

UFGA - 4253

of aro, he actually seems to be about 16 years old.

He is of slight

stature,

has cleancut features and frank grey eyes.

with

any high school group and pass unnoticed in small or large citles.

1.

He organized Action Sabotage trans in the provinces with the

ald of Hans HE:GLER,

arrested

National Military Coordinator,

who has since been

and reportedly undergoing torture in the headguarters of G-?

in Miramar.

(Organization and Oprratlons of

these teams are the sub-

ject of a

following dispatch.

FARINAS described their supplies as

deploted and outdated.

He cited one example in which their

fragmenta-

tion grenades are dates1952 and during the beach action in Pinar del

Rio when

"Juantr"' (PEREIRA) was captured and shot, many of the grenades

did. not explode.

Subject laid the total failure of their defensive

operation to the grenade failures since they

of militla who did not feel cover and precautions were necessary after

thoy observed the first grenade failure.

They were also having trouble with the last of their small

stock of "time pencils" (Firing Device, demolition,

demonstrated how they tested

at last mend onest delores insert he the peneli

In some pencils the firing pins were faulty and were discarded.

Their most serlous skortages at present are time pencils,.

caps and small arms for personal defense.

teams as working in cities and having old Springfield rifles as their

only weapon.

This was pointed out as a double security hazard since it

¿could not be concealed by the carrier on an operation and it jeopardized

their safchouses by its difficult. concealment.

FARINAS described their stock of explosives upon his departure

as total of about 120 lbs throughout the Island,

much of this was

the infcrior C-3 type:

It is distributed roughly as :follows:

in Havana, 25 lbs in Matanzas, 25 lbs in Camaguey, 10 Ibs in

in Pinar del Rio and Las Villas.

Subject emphasized the

importance of shipping only the c-1 type which is more powerful and

safer to handle because it is odorless and does not leave the yellow

stain that: C-3 does.

8.

When queried as to where subject received his training with

demolitions he replied that his predecessor had passed on ihe basic

precautions, but since then they trained the provincial teams. by taking

the U.S. Var Department Demolitions manual and with the aid of HENGLER'S

English

language capabilities, translated sections and reproduced copie:

in Spanish for distribution to the outljing provincial teams.

9.

Subject recalled the following operations during his period:

DRE teams destroyed the International Harvester Plant with

"White' Phosphorous" Incendiary charges.

b. On 31 December 1961, they exploded a bomb in Santiago de

Cuba and during this action, the brother ("'Pedro") of the

Provincial Chief of Action was captured.

•c.

In Havana Province, San Antionio de los Banos,.

during

April,

an undetermined number of beef cattle were poisoned

by a DRE Action team.

d.

In Las Villas Province

_burning sugar cane fields using

Camajuant zone,

DRE teams are

short

candles as the time

delay device.

In a GOC parking area at Calle Zapata and Paseo in Vadado,

8. to 10. vehicles

were

destroyed by fire - date not reported.

f. In the University of Havana campus zone, three bombs were

exninded.destrorinr

three

rehirles.

---

## Page 3

CONTNUATION OF

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

UFGA -4253

FARISAS explained that he seldom

• 10. Concerning. pN activitles, ut that he was aware of the dis-

had an opportunity: to particioate,

tribution of the DRE organ,

"Trinchern".

come out spora-

dicalls, about 10 to 15,000 per issue for Havana and Havana Province.

Only a few coples are carried out to the prorinces and they are fre-

quentl! reproduced locally.

The two largest and most popular issues

were

those known as

"Alberto MULLER"

(DRE Secretary General currently

imprisoned 'at Boniato Prison in Oriente) and the

(dedicatod to Juanin PEREIRA; shot by firing squad).

this fee, his exportet and return for are sche operations at

given further training and considered for future operations of guerrilla

warfare or civic resistance nature.

Meanwhile, subject is preparing

detailed reports of provincial operations and he gill probably be

consulted on future clandestine operations planned by JAWAVE.:

END OF DISPATCH

---

## Page 4

14-00000

DRE ORGANIZATION INSIDE CUBA, AS OF 5 JUNE 1962

C101l

"Mi gual"

"Dassaso"

paraso 011ral 06

"Marcos" (E.A.) D6

"Сиса".

"NATION

I.S.) 06

06

Financo Chief

--"'MIguel"'s deputy?

- Propaganis

-C1v1l Resistanco

--Pre-university students

-J111 tary

"Hans"

06

06

Arrested

"Ino" (.P., LauTARno FEQUENO, laureano FEDr?)

--Security action and sabotago

"Grego" M.S., "anual SABAS) 06

--Suppily

"Jesus" (R.C.) 06

- Intelligence

"Carlog" fRiC., Roberto QUINTAIRO, 06

_ Goneral cooralrator; arrested

to Incial chiefg

06

Havana - Tony CENTURIONS

arrested

Matanzas -"Juan" (I.E.)

• 06

las Villas - "Puch1" (.G.) u6

camaguey - (vacant)

06

Glendo - "Jose" FI.S.,

Jose Antonio SADIRVI Casas?)

Pinar del R1o - (newly orranizod by recent operations; "Pepo" (jus-la captala)?,

"Patr1c10"3, "Corio"?)

:14/5R

---

