# 104-10119-10057

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10119-10057*

• ст

SUBJECT'S NAME

- 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SPECIAL CLEARANCE and/or BILLET APPROVAL

DATE

(Submit

original and 4 copies to SCC)

22 September 1966

E. Howard HÜNT

DATE OF

BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

October 1918

POSITION

BILLET NO.

Asst to Chairman. NATD Intel Coll. Wkg. Group

MILITARY RANK

MILITARY SERIAL NO.

FOR SCC USE ONLY

COLS

CODE

29-33

P 739

34-38

39-43

ORGANIZATION

CLA

COMPONENT

DD/P

APPROVED

SUB-DIVISION

EUR

TO: CHIEF, SCC

APPROVED

DATE

IT IS REQUESTED THAT

APPROVAL BE GRANTED

PROJECTS -

"T"

and

SPECIAL CLEARANCE APPROVAL

& BILLET

THE SUBJECT IN THE FOLLOWING SPECIAL

_IN PHASE

_(also indicated in Column at right).

T

H

R

U

CIA SIGINT OFFICER

DATE

APPROVED

DD/S&Y

DATE

CONCUR

APPROVED

C/ss/OSA

DATE

CONCUR

APPROVED

JUSTIFICATION REFERENCE

Mr. Hunt has been designated

assistant to Chairman, NATO Intelligence

Collection Working Group (USIB), and

is required to appraise the effect of

possible changes in the NATO structure

on U.S. collection capabilities.

billet

The above atenxerce should be considered

supplemental to P 691.

CONCUR

APPROVED

COnCUR

APPROVED

SEE

ATTACHMENT

REQUESTER'S

MAIL

ADDRESS (Rm-Bidg)

B

03,

Headquarters

TO:

CHIEF, PSD/194

FOR ACTION INDICATED

CORAL

-SI

_BYEMAN_

SIGN TURE

DATE 27/08166

_OTHER

SEE ATTACHMENT

TO: SCC

CASE NO.

REQUESTED.

CHIEF. SCC

TsO/ClA

-SUBJECT MEETS ESTABLISHED SECURITY CRITERIA

DATE 21 Rept Bept(8

FOR THE SPECIAL

LEARANCES

NOTE ATTACHED COMMENT.

SCC INDEX SEARCH:

TO:

"EQUESTER

s4ss/65 723506

ARRANGE WITH C/SCC

FOR

BRiEFING

ite

or it

SIGNATURE A TITLERA

SCC INDEXING ACTION

NO NEW

ADD

CHANGE.

OLD

ADVISE C/SCC OF DATE BRIEFED

SEE ATTACHMENT

SUBJECT HAS BEEN

APPROVED

P. Whikhip

SCC

TSO/CIA

ToBy 2018a kitiongrous

SECRET

DATE

Aeorg'e..

C/FI

COL

PROJ.

PHASE

49

50

51

52

53

54

55

56

T

TK

57

58

59

60

61

62

63

64

65

66

67

68

69

70

71

72

73

74

75

76

77

78

50 les

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

'910

---

