# 104-10121-10302

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10121-10302

...

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

39418

C-0: I-I-D-I-N-T-I-.-I

D.TE: 27 March 1957

PROT: 7-082

TO

: Chief, hai

Director of Security

Director of Personnel

FI. Ori

: Chief, Communications Security Division

SUBUSCI: lievocation of Cryptographic Clearance - Morales, David Sa

1. The cryptographic clearance held by Subject has been revoked

in Sander leons on can Legulation 90-500. Fevocation is effective

2. Subject is not authorized to have continued custody of, access

to, or otherwise sain further knowledge of staff cryptographic material

information.

Subject has been inforned of this revocation, has been

debriefed concertin; cryptographic and related coumunications security

nauters, and has signed a Debriefing Statement acknowledging continuins

responsibility for the protection of all cryptographic information

obtained during the tenure of his cryptographic clearance.

FOR. THE CHIEF, COUNTG-TIONS:

03

Chief, Protective Branch

Distribution:

1 -

WH

1 - Security Office (Debriefing Statement attached)

1 - Fersonnel Office (Wing 1-H Curie Fall)

1 - OC-S/PF.OT File

C-0-:-F-ID-E-:-I-I--1

'/pS

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

REVOCATION OF CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE

DEBRIEFING STATELENT

1. 1,.

stands

hive been informed that my KUBARK cryptographic clearance has been revoked

effective this date.

I understand that revocation of my cryptographic clearance bars ne

autonatically from further access to KUBARK staff cryptographic naterial or

information, but that it loes not reiease me from my obligation to protect

the sesrity of cryptographic information, the knowledge of whish I might

still istain. I hail routinue to protect that information to the best of

my ability, and I shall ilewiss protest the cryptographic information of

other U, S. Goverrment agencies should I have knowledge of that information.

3. I have read the provisions of Public Law 513 of 13 liay 1950. I

understand that I an bound by that ict even after the revocation of my crypto-

graphis clearance and ny termination fron KUBARK, and that improper disclosure

of cryptographic incornation could subject me to punishment under the provisions

of the Act.

4. I certify that no KUBARK staff cryptographic material remains in my

possession.

03

Stead: and I Master

Date:

21 January 195)

wetness: L ovald R. f

CONFIDENTIAL

---

