# 104-10186-10123

## Page 1

104-10186-10123

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TUFOR MATI

REPORT

MANION REPORT

CENTRAL iNTELLIGENCE AGENCY

18. UD C. Dore tos and The la tradealaon de modato of matt in asy mannor to oa

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT FrANCISCO DOYHARZABAL Garcia

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

(5 61-316/01220-64

21 September 1964

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

RACE ashtember 1964

DATE ACQ. September

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INPORMATION.

SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DNTIMITIYR APPRAISAL CA COMTINT 1S TENTATIVE

SOURCE, A formor Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Servico until April 1964.

RETURN TO Cloadquarters Comments

Jackground Use Opte following report 18 one of a series containing personality

Do Not RoproduCen formation

provided by the

source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individualg mentloned in

the personality reports without first

chucking

with this Agency.

Sourco knew Francisco DOYHARZABAL Garcia at the Department

of Investigations of the Police in 1959.

He cannot renember

whoroabouts. I,'ysical description and does not. know his present

Hoadquarters Comments

1. A fairly reliable source, in a roport dated 5 August 1959,

that Francisco DOYHARZABAL Garcia was an agent in the

Drug: Bureau of the Department of Technical Irvestigations of

the National Nevolutionary Police. He held the rank of

sergeant.

2.

3.

3

2

Included with a report dated 19 October 1960,

was a list of

members of the Departmento Tecnico de Investigaciones of the

Cuban National Revolutionary Police who would be taking courses

given by that Department.

One Francisco DOYHARZABAL Garcia wag

Included on the list.

In a report dated 3 May 1961, from a usually reliable source,

tho name Francisco DOYHARZAL appeared on an official roster of

the Departamento Tecnico de Investigaciones. His serial

number was listed as 23765, grade 10, and a monthly salary

of $60.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

INSA

138x

FBI 2

3:

3

STATE

TOIA

FARMY

I NAWY

REP ALYCLANT CINCSO A

_ I&NS

(Nolo: fold disribution indicored by " $".)

REPORT

IINFORMATION REPORT

Li's LE081

visitian

YEL5/8

HELLADR

I CILLIA

2LCI/RBA

13I TEXBRIIISILLU

IRASH BRAH

_R - 1691

NO PROJECT (ANMUG/1)

CSCI-316/01220-64

RIDLAN

DOOFOIHATIMO

CORALINE/SA 7 (1),

WE 1 (2), CI 4,

RID 1

wuh: tp: swks

теж но і

OBSOLITE DTT...

---

