# 104-10192-10198

## Page 1

27.74

104-10192-10198

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIGIEO MESSAG

bal

DA!!

VH/4/PH

8977

SHAVE

сон. DIRECTOR

• icon?

100. COp, ADOP/1, 14 5, S/S ?

pit.

•i centra

DEARTED

come 1007

10

PRIORITY HAVE

т00

fire oNe

15354

1. AIRES ZAYAS "JUSTO', WIS RANCHER "PICOLIO", AD

TOET NUDEE "TOETY" ON UR AND ANGEL BOSS "CUILLIT" ON NURE LEN

HOS P.M. 29 SAIT TOR HAVI.

2. JUÚLO I'Ni SPURILAN AND DETLAITO LRADER OR GROUP

I:CLUDIC ROSS AND HIS MARC.' JUSTO MADE COOD DAPRESSION AND

SEBTED SINCERE, CAPASTE AND TO LOU VIAT #I8 NAS ATTIR AND WAZR!

'E MA CELS. ALTONG ONE OY TUB OTHERS VARE TRIDIS TO POLITIC

JUSTO SEIZED TO BE LITRLSILD OLLY IN A VALTILO RESISTANCE RITOET.

=I IS ESTIZIED THESE PEOPLE ARE READT TO DO BUSINESS AND CAN

P'OLLY PACILITATE NICON-L'S SPORTS. IT MAS TURALLY ARATTRO

T'AT ROSS NO MARCOS VILLIANS VERS ACTUALLY BODHUNG NORS THAN

EXTRA TOTES TOR THE UR, JUSTO TERS HE VE TUS COOPERATION OR

JUNCO OF TAX MIC AND VILL MORE WITH THE "DUPINO"-"'ANTINIO" NOR

' COMPLIS (NOS MUCOS WILLIANS) NO "OHUT"-"MONIT" OF TIE HER.

281016A1N0.010

SINATE

REPTOOUETION 8Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIATED.

Cops No.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DATE .

10

COMA.

IN7O.

10

CLASSILIED MESSAGE

DIRECTOR

ROUTINE

aT 53207

ere oie 1535%

S. THEY ABNED TO PUSE BAD TO CO TUROUSI AMBIDA-I AD

WEAR TOLD TRIT COULD BRAL DIRECTLY WITH PITIAS, PROSS EUPER 08

JUSTO POZ CONZACT 18 TR-J-1306, MiAI ON 1088 I8 HI-3-7097.

HOMSVIL, LEAVE LESCHETICE LAVE USE CUTOUTS.

d. NO COSTDINTS WIRE MAD.. THEY WERE ARKED TO COOPERATE

AND ATTER MARIES THIS ASTOUT IN THEY STILL COULD HUT GET ALONG

S. THIS ANTED ADOUS TRATHINO AL VENE TOLD THAT CAULD BE

HADLES BY PETERS ALONG BITH ALL OTHER BUSINESS.

6. TABY ALL ISNICATED A UILLINGIRES TO BAVNI TO CURA IS

DEO WISH CISE MINI CAN WENT LENIN A SINCE MERA SE

N/T CHANNEL EPPTEA BYRTUALLY TO PRODUCE INTERIAL UENPICATION

07 ALL UABARGESUA

4881

(END 0Z MASSAGE)

IMe O00I3я

ADI

ICON BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

---

## Page 3

_SaEnCORataI

"DOM

CONt

INHO

DIRECTOR

DITERREO

CITE DeR

1N80

10

06T 53207

1535°

no ella

AC/H

SIMO DEDICEN

SOOCOIMARIMO DURICE

3-S-C-2-89

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No

2/001

---

