Tyod-feo0d-10759) a (292g R RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
: ete 7 XAAZ- 22427

i 31 Jul et

(LENGTH OF TIME REQUIRED FOR OBTAINING SOVIET TOURIST VISAS IN
HELSINKI AND STOCKHOLM, 196," Ganew—eeeep See xXAAZ-22

Fer chronological sti

A memo from the Commission to CIA dated25 May 196: inquired after
infomation relating to the relatively showt period of tine in which
OSWAID acquired a tourist visa in Helsinki. The first attached iten,
a memo to the Commission dated 1 July 1964, provides such information
as we could obtain on OSWALD's reconstructed timetable for travel from
London to Helsinki, The second attached item, dated 31 July 196h,
provides comments on length oftime required to obtain a tourist visa
in Helsinki and Stockholm.

i For further information on these items, see:

Lee H. Wigren
Jane Curtis

i Ieee

for FOIA Review on JUH B76

(an *5 copy 2ol- 2VI2D+F


13-00000

Set Sanitized File it
Bumber 357

Far sterile copy of this document.



oo (ee) SECRET

—

3] gt, eY

1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. J. Lee Rankia
General Counsel
Fresident's Commission on the
Aseascination of President Kennedy

SUBJECT 3 Length of Time Required for Obtaining Soviet
Tourist Visas in Helsinki and Stockholm, i904

Marrs

| pion Apert

1. In response to a telephone inquiry made in July 1964

i concerning the time required for issuance of a Soviet visa for a

: US businessman, the Soviet consul in Helsink! stated that he could
issue a transit vies (valid for 24 hours) ia five minutes but that for

a lenger stay he would aced about a week to process & viea application
aad have Inturist arrange for lodgings. He implied that the main
reaeon for delays in visa issuances was a shortage of hotel space in
the USSR.

2. A Finaish travel agency representative eaid in July 1964
that he is able to obtain Sevict tourist visas for hie customers within
five days if he pushes the matter.

3. A telephone check with the Soviet consulate in Stockholm in
July 1964 revealed that normal visa processing there takes seven
days but that this can be shortened to five days ‘in exceptional cases."
The Soviet official receiving the telephone call stated that it was
impossible to get a visa within two or three days.

A a4 -34 ( 14. A Soviet official

tor FOIA Review on JUN 76
BOL Bpen7:
Weapon
e6€ asuTfyre:

- SECRET | :



13-00000

2ECKEL oe
4

See Sanitized File 38
+

Number —
For sterile copy of t document.

\er BEATS OLES IST

Rae
GELS] Cx RSE

Raacs

LeGHoR (Me kates!
SDDt £D OPEBIW ROATSR Fone!
sep pueaay 2awek poh

Po OER D ATER
F51G PT OTA 304

{ea cays he mw apes faay

WESE we vee

ay potay ebrce py
poercsrer gnxgwks pox yoq<Rm®e- is 36g epee CSE ETE
wong Ueeg spon es KeEX (9 bicecses o ape ghbyzesion
AUMe (ATI [OS SS YoRss} yy tras so recree Hog CavE [Or
“UN $66 GDALSE COMA] Ty crEpasoRT gq tEsp ye cong

MTU ROGMILSY FOL Tears or Saget MEME [ORS

ee re ue yok 13c€

ce e

ig greKpOFE! gc4
ientece to. CpeegayUe goarer

LORRTeE AYESE 7 air

7 LBOIQSEE 2 Oo

WER

hosel obo Qt rng saoeee

ne ded

GEOHEL


4. A Soviet official in Stockholm indicated in carly 1964
that vies prececsing for foreigners wishing to visit the USSR
normally takes eix to eight days in Stockholm but that vices for
Svwedieh busineesmen and other personalities of special interest
(not defined) can be precessed directly by the Soviet embassy in
Stockholm without referral te Moscow.

Distribution:

Orig. & 2 - Addressee
1 - DDP
1 - CI/RAG
2 ~ SR/CI/Research

C/SR/CI/Research:L.H. Wigren;cl
29 July 1964 ae

/ CS copy :
: SECRET 2O0l- 2IT24F
