# 104-10071-10311

## Page 1

AAAAR

104-10071-10311

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

¿RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Onh

Do Not Repioduce

June: 2972

MEDORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Rolando MASTERRER, Jr.

Flease be informod of a possible future contact--Roinado

MASFERRER,

r., recontly procoted

to Vice-President of Sales, M1X1-

ints Armament Corporation, Washington D.C. office,

P1328,

74020.

2905 L' Enfant.:

He is also assoctated with Pacalellum Corporationa

another militzry weapons firm.

Subject, born approximately 1945,:

tn. Bahaan, Cuba,

is balieved to be a naturalized citizen.

22-4

Subject makes frequent sales trips to, latin Amarica.

Because

of/the

nature of his nain product (nachino pistols with stiercers, ha

has good access to

2op. Latin. American governmental officials

and

military

and security officers.

do has persoually net mary latin

auerican presidents.

Be should be a goi1

sparedol inforcation

the current status of arms saies in ratin Amricas. Internal security,

aspinternal politics in

nilitary ar ament lovels, order-of-battle' cubag exile novement.

host countries;

status of

• Fla

is resently

on i sales nission to colombia and Is scheduled to ratur

in mic, Tune:

LASFERREd,

recently Lived in Atlanta.

ir. how beep a lions residentisince,

1959 and 20r92

He will percanently locate. in the Washing.

ton, P Cares when be returns fron his Colomblan trip.

subject is not to be confused with his

bye the

Same

the infamous Rolando Arcadio MASARZER Rosas 301-42669, 05

serring in a U.S, federal prisor for attempting

to argenth 495T invasion of Haiti in order Co setrup a base'

Masferrer Sr.,

as lovo ved an numerous Caban exile operations against Cuba during

15,

Twas Subject's Communding Officer in the florida National

Guard and sometimes saw bim socially while in biami.

Although Cuban

i birth

he now feels that he is an American.

Politicaliy anti-

Camanuet, he Joined the National Guard(while not under duress fron

and orate to becone ca

inGreen Beret." Ee is polite and correct in

Ked soctal relationshipo

"I received a letter fron him, 7 June

1972,

→ 059 of is tapendins, wove to the Rashington, DiC area.

2 He

08124

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECTEL

Soltaited my aid in finding a lock/farry rep

irve unite

6xN T8 qu

are interested 1a explorior

this posa toilty Curther.

• ploase,

Ltree to contactine at any her

could

siegest cautione

and netbo

of contact on introduotton

subteot

Agencyterployment.

08164000

wasN

2388÷

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

During the

first three months. of,J972, Sublect

nadentho.

trips to Mexico.

During his fifstet

ee sin late January and February, Masfe

three

eda,

Allegro and Mitchell Werbell (Mitche

211 201-259910 former OSS membe

KInK

Var Ily former Fresidont of Milita

ration; and presently associated wit

nse Systems

porated, Powder Springsty Georgia:) i

exico city,

sco Bravo introduced the deputation to bexico City

ce Chief'

"s (Daniel GUTIERREZ SantoS] and Miguel.

AR Haro, "Chief of Political Policels, (Actually Deputy

ector of the Federal Security Service, DFSt a political

andy

Intelligence organization working within the Secretariat

of Goyernnent.] During conversations Nazar admitted

Mexico's insurgency problems and specifically named "Force

Seven'-sferrer meationed that both Nazaryand Gutierrez

Santos were angry with President Echeverria because of the

Mexican Governnent': inlicy of light criminal punishment

and short prison terms for bandits and/or guerrillas pains-

takingly captured by the police.

then

Gravo took the three to Cuernavaca, where he showed

a house

on the outskirts of the city that the police

Mused for unofficial detentions and heavy-handed interrogations:

Bravo complained that the local Catholic Archbishop was

implicated with the insurgents as well as certain U.S. film

personalities who vacation. in the Anerican community in

Cue mavaca.

Bravo also implicated a professo, that ivas

kidnapped in Guerrero in late 1971. Bravo believed that

the prefessor (Jaime CASTREJON Diez, Rector of the University

of Guerrerol actually conspired with the insurgents for his

own kidnapping in urder to raise the ransom money for the

insurgent movement.

The ranson was finally paid by President

Echeverria.]

Subject travelled again

1 to Mexico in March 1972

DE TORRES.

mentions that LITEMPO-12, WH/MIAMI

HIMAN, receive a phone call

fren/one. Bernardo De Torres regarding a, supposed swiss:

contratiand.arms dealer in Mexico City.. Nazar had invited

Masferrer to return to Mexico to go on a hunting, party";

that, is to participate in an actual counter insurgency.

operation.

Nasferrer

and De Torres arrivod in Acapulco and

They travelled by police vehicle for

abouttan hour east' of Acapulco to an area neat La Treintas (NFI).

SECRET

2588)

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

Just, before, they arrived they heard on the police radio

hat the Army had just shot down", a twin-engine, Beachcraft

When they arrived, a search of the wreckage ylelded a few

Leapons A short firefight (about 15 minutes) ensued withs

insurgents that left two soldiers dead.

Mas ferrer saldi

he did pr now the number of insurgent casualties:

• One.

Insurgert was captured along with his 45 caliber pistol

9. The captured insurgent turned out to be a U.S:

citizen, white, male, approximately 27 years old.

(Mas'ferror

claimed he forgot the prisoner's nane, but that la had it in

Miami.) • Bravo did not trust the Acapulco.or the Guerrero

state police"and had his men take the prisoner to the

detention house outside of Cuernavaca

"Nasferrer said hele

witnessed the interrogation in which

the prisoner's head m

was repeatedly dunked in a rain barrel to make him talk..

The prisoner eventually revealed the following information

about "Force Seven": participating Americans were ex-ranger.

airborne, Marine of, Special Forces types, many with Vietnam.

combat experience. They were armed with CAR-15 (M-16.) rifles

and some had M-79 grenade launchers.

Other Americans operated

elsewhere in Latin America.

"Force Seven" provided training

to the insurgents and, whenever possile,, supplied weapons.

In return, the

Anericans were paid in noney and drugs, mostly

marijuana, but some cocaine.

Masferrer said no heroin was

mentioted.

The prisoner said the insurgents used the money

from the drug snuggling to finance operations.

Bank robberies

had become increasingly difficult since the Army began posting

armed guards at area banks.

The prisoner said he had worked.

under Genaro VASQUEZ (Mexico's infanous bandi: turned guorrilla;

killed in a car accident last. Fobruaryl: 'The prisoner put

guerrilla strength at about 1,000 men.

Masferrer, however.,

said Bravo felt that figure to be high. The prisons also

mentioned that some of the insurgents. had previously received

guerrilla trainirg in North Korea.

10:

Hasferrer said that later

upon Nazar's orders

the 'American prisoner was shot and killed The whole affair

mwas never resorted in the: local press docause,

according to

Masforrer, such information, if revealed would damage the

area's tourist trade.

03

Joffrey Gi Peterson

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

ERNAL

E ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONENTIAL

SECRET

Peterson

382637 Has

STENSON

9494

UFFICER'S

DAN

C/WW/ 5/4

12.11:1977

15 huma

03

Holl for ta Hathea

SUELAST NU OPS

FRD

1c54 -

DCS/OSS

Enjesse

900 Koc/

No Key

NH/3/V: 38262201qs

THR OLD MAN MILO

CAVORACE TO GAT

HAS ALWAYS BRAN

1S.

PFIOLATE

INTERS As

5894

---

