(104-10211-10102

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

t

fw

cusercanan

GRETN

“SE

Chief, WH Division
00 :

7 z
Chief of $ ation, Mexico City

corr

LITEMPO/Operational Report 1-31 October 1963

RETR AE QURED - TPO
Referesce: HMMA-22366, 24 Cot 1963

1, Taake Assigned LITEMPO.

The following requeste for Mexican transit visae for Cubans of interest
to KUBARK were handled through the LITEMPO Project:

Date Requested
Reference Mame Action

5 May 1963 TETZELL, Ludvik Pending
MERTON (Subject applied through more than
E one channel. )
6 May 1963 VELEZ y Fernandes, Jose Domingo Pending
MERTON (Subject applied through more than
one channel.)
3 July 1963 ROSELL Sanches, Teoboldo Pending
CHOADEN (Subject applied through more than
one channel.)

(continsed)

DEPATON STUD AAD ER ‘ore

HMMA-22437 7 November 1963

‘aeunCATION HOS Fag saneete

& SECRET 50.



X
EE Srnuation oF

ay te

OISPAICH

a Dein TPR aa
SECRET | HMMA+22437

pal peels

30 July 1963 GONZALEZ Leyva, Pecro - leeued 21 Oct 63
DY¥GBIP HERNANDE£Z Peres, Landelina del Carmen
GONZALEZ Hernandea, Godoberto Gaudeacio
CASTANON Dias, Caridad Luisa
GONZALEZ Castanoa, Godoberto Adr.an
GONZALEZ Castanea, Viva

24 September 1963 GONZALEZ Vila, Eethor Concepcion Iseued Oct 63
JMZIP It Caridad

18 October 1963 CARMONA Relova, Solevad Pouding
UFGA 10806 COLMENARES Caraicoaa, Antonio
COLMENARES Carmona Jose .

b. DIR-69901 asked the Station to obtain a list of all Cubame in Cubs
awaiting transit visas to Mexico. Jeremy K. BENADUM learned that
Spproximately four thoucand vi pplicants waiting decisions oa Mexican
vioas, Theve traneit viens are authorised for issuance by the Mexican Coneul
ia Havena for a six monthe' period and valid for travel of fifteen to thirty days
im Mexico. Obtaining a list of persons for whom vicas are authorized does
not necessarily indicate travel plane since the applicant hag oix months to
enter Mexico,

€. On-2 October 1963 the Station advisec LITEMPO that the Chinsve
Communiste in preparation for their cominercial exhibition to be held ia
December 1963 @ expected to ehip goods aboard a Britieh ship "Weet Bree
which was scheduled to arrive in Veracrus on 12 October 1963. Ia thie shipment
thero wae thought to be a large amount ef Cammunist propaganda. LITEMPO
wao acked to intercept this propaganda.

a. On the night of 23 October 1903 the Chief of Statioa, Mexico, aalied
for LITEMPO support in aseisting personnel and recovering property in a
sensitive TYPIC operation (WAVE-6395 and related cables). Ths LITEMPO
group immediately sont an agent to acciet the injured persoanel and plans have
been made for a discreet recovery of the prog ~ty involved,

@. Os the night of 10 October 1963 the Station SR and CP case officers
eoatacted Jeremy K. BENADUM and asked that be have LITEMPO check at the
airport to learn if Cleto Manuel Sousa Betista had made reservations to leave
Meaico via a south-bound airline. The LITEMPO group wae asked to search
gubjoct and his luggage to see if he was carrying from $25,000 to $50,000 0.8.
dollars which he was to have received from the Soviet Erobassy in Mexico.

The LITEMPO group checked all aisliste and reservations for south-bound
travel. In the afternoon of li Cctober 1963, after receiving instructions (rom
KUBARK Headquarters, the Station acked the LITEMPO groap to make no
search of subject or otherwice hinder his travel. Subject departed on I2 Octoder
4963 via Guest Airlines 0830 Might for Panama. In the oveat that subject had
Been aearched, BENADUM advised that there is mo Mexican law which forbids
the carrying of U.S. currescy. They could have noted the sumbers of the bills
but could cot have confiscated the money.

2. Liateon,

&. The Chief of Station, Mexico, met with LITEMPO/I and 2 eeveral
timee during thie reporting period to sek their aseletance in providing capport
to Station operations such ag described above.

bd, On 28 October 1963, COS, Mexico, ed one thousand rounds of
«223 Colt automatic ammanition to LITEMPO/I as a personal gift for
LITEMPO/2 and LITENSOR,

ib a.


we
a

CONTINUATION OF et
secrets

OlsPaTCH

i ¢. On 28 October 1963 LITEMPO/t asked COS, Mealeo, for the

: loan of zodlo equipment fox use in protecting LITE MPO/2 duriag the

1 presidential eampaiga. (Seo MEXI-6649, DIR-78468 and MEXI-6726 for details.)
Aa of the ond of October 1963, it wae well haowa that LITEMPO/2 would be the

; PRI candidate.

3. Production.

a. During this period, the following roports, operational cables
, 054 dlspatehes were bagel oa information obtained throcgh LITEMPO sources:

MEXI< HMMA- HMM:

6726 22300 7938
6698 22385 7946
6649 22366 7862
6879 22368 7830
6806 22353 1836
6489 7832

b. Peseport Camera. HMMA~-22430 tranemitted throes cno-hundred
foot ralle ef 16mm film to Headquarters fer any further cxploitation. Coverage
fee the poried 7 through 22 October 1963 again indicated mechaaical difficultioe,
Approszimately tweaty-five fost is well exposed film and the remaining esventy=
five foot is a cories of black chets suggesting that the camera may have been
dgopped, The Statioa KURIOT technician oill examine the camera and try to
correct the difficulty.

4. Pervesnel.

&. There bev: ‘een no changoe tn perscane! ia this Project since the
lest report. However, whea LITEMPO/2 becomes the presidential caniidste,
Some changes may be aeceseary.

b, There were uo cocurity incidents daring thie poriod.

Meese.

6. Emergency Contact Inctrustione.
There bave been no changes since the previous report.
