if04-'10322-107104) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
CIA HISTOR \
“RELEASE AS : : ;
199° LC 78-3613 L 283372372

December 6, 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: DCI Meeting with Chairman Boland of HPSCI, 5 Dec. 1978

At the Director's request, he met with Chairman Boland accompanied
by the Legislative Counsel in the HPSCI offices. He asked to brief the
Chairman alone on two private matters.

1. With respect to the first, the Kampiles Case, the DCI informed
Chairman Boland of the sensitive source-information involved in the case
after the Chairman indicated. that he was interested’in this information.
The DCI reminded Chairman Boland that the DDCI had offered to brief him
when the Kampiles Case first broke but that the Chairman had not deemed
it necessary to receive the information at that time. After the commmi-
cation, Chairman Boland agreed with the DCI that it might be best not to
brief Mr. Mazzoli or other Members of the Committee. The DCI informed
the Chairman that he might have some personal difficulty with Mr. Mazzoli
on the question during his first appearance in the New Year, but it was
agreed that the DCI would be able to make his explanations. ( S )

2. . The DCI briefed Chairman Boland on a personal matter and indicated
that he had briefed Chairman Bayh on the same question. ( C )

3. Messrs Latimer and O'Neil joined the meeting at this point. The

DCI discussed the Iranian situation, the alleged intelligence failure and
the hand-written memo from the President. He indicated that the President's
displeasure had not been directed at him personally, but at the subject of
political reporting in general, both overt and covert, and Chairman Boland
described the answer which he had given to ABC News a week ago on this point.
The Chairman had apparently stated that political reporting was an Embassy
function 4nd not one solely the responsibility of the Intelligence Commmity.
Cc)

4. Charters: The DCI asked HPSCI to get involved in the Charters
questions at an early stage and not wait for the Senate to finish its work.
Because of the Church Committee legacy there are likely to remain some
important differences between the Senate and the Administration on Charters
questions on which the DCI stated it would be helpful to have the HPSCI
view during the negotiation process. Tom Latimer then asked that we make
sure we keep him. supplied with all the position papers that have been developed
by the Working Group which we agreed to do. ( C )

5. Finally, the DCI discussed the Authorization Bill and our hope that
an FOIA repealer and a provision permitting our security people to carry guns
be included. Mike O'Neill later called back to obtain our language on these
questions which we have agreed to supply him.( C

From the standpoint of the Committee, Chairman Boland asked
whether we had had any extensive involvement with SAVAK during the reporting
period on Iran. The answer was negative with respect to Iranian domestic. .

wa ose |
SECRET i co nC ISTRY +
° "Sper VOT


13-00000

. SORT

activity. Secondly, the Chairman brought up the question as to whether
we had received any report from Guyana about the goings on at_Jonestown
at_the time of the Ryan incident. The Director replied that ‘oun

had picked up some information on Jonestown subsequent to the
“‘Incident~dnd had passed it to the State Department since it involved U.S.
persons. Later Tom Latimer and Charlie Rose asked me for a full readout
of our information from Guyana so that the Committee would be in a position
to spate clearly what the limitations on our knowledge in that area are.

i¢

\

weet 4 ae

Legislative Counsel

DISTRIBUTION: DCI
poct-~

DDO
ER
MP(OLC)
OLC Record Copy
FPH Chron
; oman, cor 532-112
DIDECL GAEvW ON
EXT BYND 6 YRSBY pot

REASON.

SEGRET
