# 104-10121-10210

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10121-10210

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

26 OCT 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Foreiga Reaources Division

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

: Air. Donald J. Celesa.

¿& Support Stadi

dilguell. Cassio)

OS# 34 418

07

(A)

Reference is made to your memorandum dated 14 Octo-

ber 1972

requesting issuance of a CIA Identification Card

in the above alias to enable Subject to perform domestic operational

duties.

2. The above alias must be properly recorded in Office of

Personnel records to insure intelligent responses to inquiries re-

garding the Subject. You are requested therefore to complete and

process Form 642, "Personnel Emergency and Locator Record. "

3. Please return the Identification Card to the OS/Identifica-

tion Section, Room 1-E-0008, when it is no longer needed.

4.

By copy of this memorandum the components listed below

are requested to provide backstopping as appropriate.

5. Please refer any questions concerning backstopping ar-

rangements to the Chief, Operational Support Division/Special

Activities Branch on extension 3434 or 2966.

MILLS - jan

26 OCTOBER 1972

JDS/IOS

ADDS/TOS

SA-DD/IOS

C/ID

DC/ID

C/ID/

C/OSD

DC/OSD

C/OSB

C/SAB

C/CI-CE

C/AAS

A&TS

Files

Arthur C. Sheridan

Deputy Director of Security (IOS)

Domestic Contact Service

OP/Transaction and Records Branch

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHOOS INVOLVED

'/r

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIF:ED BY

043616

EXEMPT FROM GENTIAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E. O. 11552, EXEMPTION CATACONY:

$ 5a(9), 62D 151 or Cil frisile one or roorei

RETO

Approval of DCI

---

