# 104-10095-10049

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10095-10049

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

"aha

215°

WALLERSay,

LEADI

SEE DISGEM BY

PEM LA

-E.d

TOTAL COPIES 10.

- 3 RUN EY

SECRET

50N/UNI NOTIFIED_

'ANCE,

COPY

TIONUNIT

/AA 3

ICT

LUEDISLOTTED C

4A45.9 AL AI2400

RE. FILE

VR 0/D01, RD0 3, eS/RF

N

F

EYES ONLY

-T 720203

ETANIZ

PAGE 01

PEPRODUCTION

SY OTHER

THAN

ESUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED

STARF Ni

HULA

6

IN 115271

TOR: 3023497 NOV 76

MEXI

38565

SECRET 302317Z NOV 76 STAFF

SITE MEXICO CITY 38565

SA/LA

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

WN INTEL RYBAT

PL VW CADET

REF; DIRECTOR 950609 (attached)

1, HOUSE COMMITTEE INVESTIGATORS DID NOT CONTACT

STATION AS OF 16DD HOURS BE NOVEMBER.

2, EVEN PRIOR TO RECEIPT OF REFERENCE STATION HAS

UNDERTAKEN SEARCH OF ALL FILES WHICH MIGHT CONCEIVABLY STILL

CONTAIN INFO RELATING TO OSWALD PRESENCE IN MEXICO CITY IN

1903.

SEARCH STILL CONTINUING AND WILL ADVISE RESULTS.

3, REGARDING PARAGRAPH A OF REFERENCE, WISH PROTEST

IN STRONGEST TERMS AGAINST PROPOSED FULL PUBLIC DISCLOSUPE

OF AGENCY HOLDINGS RELATING TO OSWALD ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO

AS PROPOSED IN REFERENCE, WHILE WE WOULD HAVE NO OBJECTION

TO DETAILED AND TRUTHFUL SUMMARY OF OSWALD ACTIVIYIES AS

SUCH, THE OFFICIAL REVELATION OF OUR CLAUS ON RELATIONSHIP,

JOINT OPS AND AGENT TRUE NAMES INCLUDING POSSIBLE IDENTITY OF

LESSEE OF HOUSES USED FOR PHOTO SURVEILLANCE WOULD HAVE

DEVASTING IMPACT HERE, IT WOULD EMBARRASS OUR FRIENDS; DELIGHT

SECRET

---

## Page 2

4-00000

7-71 NFG. 2178

ADLE SEC DISCEN CY.

_ PER

'ERSON UNIT NOTIFIED_

IDVANCE COPY

IGGUEOISLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF

• FILE

N

- ACTION A

42 02 03

EL AD 12

t3Y

- AT

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

Z

N BY

VR .

ISSUING

SPEND CROCES PEERIEN

OFFICE IS

STAFF

2

3

PAGE D2

TOR: 3D2349Z NOV 76

IN 115271

MEX!

38565

OUR ENEMIES, REDUCE UTILITY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF ONGOING

OPERATIONS AND EXPOSE NEW LOPEZ PORTILLO ADMINISTRATION TO

BARRAGE OF QUESTIONING ABOUT COOPERATION WITH CIA. WHETHER

SUCH CCUOPERATION STILL CONTINUING AND SO FORTH.

4, IN OUR JUDGMENT ANY SUCH OFFICIAL REVELATION OF

WINT OPERATIONS WITH LIAISON MAY EFFECTIVELY TERMINATE

RDBADGER AND SIMILAR ACTIVITIES, IN THIS CONNECTION SEE

(18112196)

MEXICO CITY 38523

DATED

NOVEMBER WHICH REFERS PO PROBLEM

WE MAY ALREADY BE FACING WITH NEW MINISTER OF GOVERNMENT.

SIT SHOULD BE REMEMBERED THAT TELEPHONE TAPS IN MEXICO ARE

UNCONSTITUTIONAL, I AS MINIMUM, OFFICIAL STATEMENT ABOUT

JOINT UPERATIONS WOULD CONFIRM THE WRITINGS OF PHIL AGEE

AND JOSEPH SMITH.

5, IT ALSO SEEMS TO US THAT SUCH STATEMENT WOÜLD BE

IN VIOLATION OF OUR OBLIGATION TO PROTECT SOURCES AND METHODS.

IF AGENCY CAN RELEASE INFO ON SENSITIVE SOURCES AND METHODS,

AND PUBLICIZE PAST OPERATIONAL RELATIONSHIPS WITH SPECIFIC

INDIVIDUALS, IT IS DIFFICULT TO SEE ON WHAT GROUNDS WE COULD

GRITIZE THOSE WAD MAKE SIMILAR PUBLICATIONS FOR THEIR OWN..

PURPOSES, WHICH TO THEM, MAY

SEEM EQUALLY LEGITIMATE,

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

IS PROFITE

SON/UNIT NOTHIED

ANCE COPY

ISSUED/SLOTTED

TION UNIT

RF .

N

ICTION"

T 420203

STAFF

BY

AT

7.

FILE.

VR

5

3

ELA012

PAGE D3-D3

TOR: 302349Z NOV 76

IN 115271

MEXI

38565

6, IN SUM, WE BELIEVE THAT ANY PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

ALONG THE LINES OF PARA FOUR OF REF WILL GET US INTO EVEN

MORE TROUBLE THAN WE ARE IN AT PRESENT. WE VOLUNTEER JUDGMENT

THAT WE ARE IN THE TROUBLE WE ARE IN BECAUSE AT TIMES IN PAST

WE SEEM TO HAVE FORGOTTEN THAT WE ARE AND SHOULD BE AN

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY. PROPOSED REVELATION OF EJA IS ON:

RELATIONSHIP, TRIALI OPS AND AGENT TRUE NAMES WOULD CAUSE

WIDE-SPREAD SKEPTICISM THAT WE ARE IN FACT INTELLIGENCE

AGENCY, E"2, IMPDET,

S E

RET

---

