|104-10786-10172{*

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

mona

‘Tots matertar coojatan information afecting the Naticos: Patew of the Calted Staten within the meaning of the Espionage tava fide
AW U2 ecu THY and TH ihe (racemtecion OF rereieina ef SAR 10 any Manoer to An UnaLtherland person le proaibited by lew. 7

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

country Cuba REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00803-65
sumect “Aldo” (an alias) - : DATE DISTR, 17 February 1965"
NO. PAGES 1
nerenences -CS=311/00115-64
(page 12)
‘ 8 July 1964
DATE OF
INFO. 1964
Washington, D.C. ‘i
pate aca. January. 1965 FIELD REPORT _NO.
™ UNSVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE OFFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT. 1$ TENTATIVE

source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

BBTURN TO cA 7
Headquarters Comments Do stand

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the adcressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
-first checking with this Agency.

1, "Aldo" is the individual who gives instructions on radio
training, secret writing. and coves in the Seccton Tecnica
{Technical Training Section - ST) of the MI Department (Department ‘
of Technical Operational Support) in the Direccion General de
Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI). Source
believes that "Aldo" carries the carnet of the Departamento de
Seguridad del Estado (Department of State Security - DSE).

2, “Aldo” was born between 1935 and 1940, is five feet eight
inches tall, weighs between 160 and 170 pounds, and has a heavy
build. He is a negro and has a pug nose, fat Ijps, a large
mouth, white even teeth, and a short, fat neck.

Headquarters Comment

1, The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
on “Aldotly

Suseune Et er
NO FOREIGN DISSEM eae

meee

‘STATE

in Tasay Twave Tae ory TREX Toce FBIz
REP CINCLANT _CINCSO_# TENS
Field distrberion indwcated by ~ #”.) -

jut {LX 2.3
i (0 PROJECT (AMMUGY 1)

ICSCI-216/00803-65

a Ta

pores
” |

