104-10226-10045)_

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

es : geenet
. 4 May 1961

BABORANDUM FOR TAK RECORD

SUBSECT: Briefing ot|

Clark Sinaons

a

1, Ia view of the requ

tof mr
repressatative, for eetany and furtter par ars Fding the

Robert Mottca bed 4en ci ting Lin Wa/a/cr,
ae, win Br. Clevelase C. Cram and ot WB/6

te

-. a, BoSert Bortsc Geddes 1s &@ Britten sudject born io
Lima, Peru, oa 7 April 1932, Hp bslds aritteh passport Ne. -34830,
fesved.at Mazagua oo 14 Jone 1956, Re vse ovt regiajered at the
British Consulate tao Havaaa ard was Tegarded as being Avarican or

Z Canadiaa,

: B. Two taplere
Gedseo in the Havana ja
90. April 1961, acd hag a 15:
etpouastances dich they fe

vided he following tefornation:

‘B. At the cuteet #

of the British Esbassy, Havana, had visited
itary G-2 sectioe) oa Sunday evening, ©:
note converss:ica with Geddas alone under Ef
a were. net wonitored, Geddes stated to
thea (1) Ga 19° Ap: ad by the silitia (te civilian
clothes) at his bote Hy had been ioterrogeted three tines acd
ve the fagresaion that be had cot 4isciaeed aaytaing of tuportance;
3) Bs was accceed of beicg a CIA agent. and told that he could be
. BROT Boenuse of che ext nee of civil war: /4) During ta» third
Snterrcgatics Geddes vas sn2un thet thar GATO B aessdge in Spantad
aigaod by Gedéea ehicn vas gest allegodiy oy diu by radio-transaitter

asking that CIA send arse to Cubs.
ce. The British Beabsasy in Bavaaa learted on Saturday,

39 Agrtt 1961, tnat Godges had regularity too re i

Kavase airport co his tripe to and f Miao ¢ wea aot

certain wuat-exact ipterpretation could be givea ts the ters

“picked up").

3, After relating the above, mr. eteted that a
fa taterested in chtaiping an estiuate of Re sort of story the
t the British Besessy,

wight ose agatast Gedtes or ia prevacaticn agai
perdsps to prove that tho Britian Sedasey Aaa veor ta collunico with
the &. 8. Teferred to tne followisg specific q tiots wnich he
hac submitted earlier on 4:-May ond which o relay W8/a to WA/4y
R. Bppkine fer assvers to be given in the efteracss a toa by Clark
Giumoas: . is

_ SECRET

pneessara=FeSgesy



fo os .M : : SEGRET - a

© the sentity of the agent t2vide Cuba who «+9 GEUDES
fo he brosght to the CIA coetect in Miaed on 3 barch LadL;

Woat gas the idestity--or eaes or neass--caed by the CIA‘ case

‘be
officer in Mt : :
‘©. Was Geddes given ALY Botts of Clakcastine Fadio-tranesteaton;
d. What vere the teatructions give to CROOKS by bie ceoe officer.

4. ‘ir, Siwmons regiies as follows: 7

te Cedtas, vostdan bis
» VBS &@ very stn,

8. The caly moans cf codeuntcat
Open code phone ¢ &
systen,

b. Blasonn then 324 sad related the tollovteg chrozmslogs of
Geddes’ activities fron WH/4 £11,

Ll March: Ged¢es’ cans to Miant on the sight of 1) Berca and neds clatact
SIth Cabnaze/4, a Coban fe Misat oho uaa it atact with tre CIA office, -
Goddon had a evnsage froa Ca>dags/) a CIA Goutect tna tde C-4 put
Gadéos in contact ott a CIA case officer fa wi March. Ged¢es
Claimed to bs an active Bosker of the Uaitad ovo 4,8 restntance
Group inside Cuba of watch C-1 was & wazser. AC Yhe 62 Gedies aaid the
Cuban Navy has a plea to attack al} Drodastro facilities and thes. flee
Cubs on or absut 22 Birch, Col¢es d16 cot & for any aceey, Kis eativat
aw aot knoea. The case officer deatroctt > Gaddes were related aie2y
te Geddea' report that the Csbaa Rasy assis fefect.” Geddes returned to
Havana, i

16 Harch: Geddes departed fer Bavaga,

a0 Karcht We beard indirectly = Geddes had pheved his wife ard tedicated
TEak the iedtvidual (C-D wits ‘Thon Bo had been “ecilaboratieg ia-caitad
Reveluctooaria was tn treatle, Tao fact Denind thin sas that one of our
agsuts (aeaher of the UR) deetde Cube pec agas: dnetructione visited ats
wife 1a Cuba. Ass vesolt CR eet of coves re Se 488 Bersated secliding
c-1, Besiées C-1, ecas of tke Othora of a:b nev Bree of Coddes' activitien,

‘Rl_Waroh: -Geddeu returned to Hiaal.
2@ Harch: Gpddee case to Havana, 8» vas given a siapie 58 yuter,
Seon eee eet 38 Barch ve had roasce to scscoct Gacven aS & preaidle
ne eer eeay since the defection Bed pot cca off and pomatbility of meaping
the defection of the mary ascret in itaeit "as taplasstble,

37 Earch: Geddes sort 2 SY Sesesgo to Mikal rogardieg the poastdle Cuban
WAT defection, ‘

28 March: Prreceh opae ccée telecon vith vite Sa1d defection of Savy ast
ir @ April, i ‘

Godden catied wife on telepboas,

SECRET

89 Marc!



° oct SECRET aa

-3-

VApril: Godden sent on BY aoscige white was daad-carried’ te
KitaT by a courtier. Gedéoa also had & tolecss vits his vife oa

this day.: - i

2 April: Qo4ées aid in telecen to vite that faval conspirators
WoaTT weet on 3 April and Geddes wosld give co oa 5 April a sinal
date for the defectica, 7 :

@-April: Goddou indicated 1a telecon ts wife that the Baval

efoction vould tame place “say ¢ay” avy,
Be received o msseage troy Geddoa seltvared by 2 thiré

T Aprai:
party Ccourlor) that the Havy plane to Sefect on $ cr 7 Ayril..

Geddes returned ts Hiaul aad said the date vas nov sst for 6 oF 9
April, :

10 April: Geddes returned to Savane,

ll April: Ged4ea telephoned bin vife that the Sefecticn coul4 take
place on 13 or 14 April, 7

18 April: Geddes in telecon wits vite reper tse that tho Sefecties
sorte be ater

ye on 17 or 18 April.

©. During tho aceduit of ths abzve ¢krvsology, Bisaces
Bade the following comments: - :

(1). Tee CIA agent toofde (C-1) vouched tor Seééea bat ve here ta

‘ Beadgnarters 6o set keov to what extont C-?b2a+ proved tris the. back-

ground ef Coddes and his coatacts. 4 adviee Hisst act to
tahoe asy sution ustil we Bidsehtsined. - lconcurroses bat by
that tise Geddes had alroady returned t2 HAVaLA, He reiterated that
Gedéos wag & walk-in and was fever trostss es an agest.

(8). Gedgas aod bis foreraat regarding tho cefection of the Catan
Havy worg ovspect froe thd ‘oatsat. Ho claimed to bs a Britisa
Gttisen but vas alreacy pertoraiag fer the E.R.

(3) Yo @r. questisa 30 to westker Goddes bsd acy access
to a U/P asa, Siasoas roplied that to bis kaovlecge Geddes caly hag ~
phone ccatact with bia wifo, SY and ose of ecerior, :

(4) | ¥> aras: éelivertos vore involved in tte esatact with Gedées.

(3) Simmoag satd ke would look into whom Gef¢es could cortaaizata
or put.the fioger oa,

(6) Yo Br,

Warsthen repented reqsest for ideatities of
officer, aad the cet teat wee arrests’ os
that caly th» OCI tas tae aotherity tp

release sock iafsreatica.
(1). The Meni case officer nover esrved inate Cuba,



a gaed by hig’in ccatacts with Geddes;

po SECRET
; a -4-

“8, after me. naa ‘put & awaber of questions ts Sisnsas

the latter asked thethor Cotses 1s posethly a agaat
Which Oldfield osphetically answered to tho oogative, ce

: “gustesttt!® that ha would now-sond off a coansoicatioa
te bia BSlcatiog that Geddes vignt be a Dkozey—a provocateur,

Bovever, asked that ko be provided with the followings:

S&S. CIA appraciation of tre United Bavolesisnarta;

seo C-1, C-4 aud wesbors of the oet vith whoa
Fret 18 (Bota: Rizaoes acknogledged. that bosidas

J several otkar avaters of this set Sigh? have knows of
Gosden sag bio activities.) i

"Gs. Mdeatities of the couriers who hed Gontset vith Coddos

‘Tie identity of the CIA cass 6fficer--ths Base oF noses.

@. Chronologtes! gmanary of the visits of Geddes to Miaat

and raturne to Havana; also a list of the natore of: nis cOmaunicsticag |

bg Ripai (by telecoa, gourter, ate.) aad ceavuntcations seat to him 16
WARR, :

ET int owmeny bance amas nee yer anna ee. dine

