# 104-10227-10163

## Page 1

104-10227-10163+

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CA.AN3001.111030

SECRET.

PHOCESSING

Chler, WHD

MADRID, SIN INUE KING.

MIS INUEDIAS, ASONMED

1PA80,

LAM MISER INCIDITO

INCAA

Chief of Stution, JMWAVE

SYKLIP/KUCKOF/AMBUD/Operational

ACTUAI SSIPINIO REDEMAINED

PYI

PRIORITY

1. Under separate cover we are forwarding PASSAVOY Memoranda

87 through 93.

These

memos ure being referred locally to the appropriate

sections for

sotion.

?.

Mamos

89 and 93 bring ip to date local deotolona

trade

concerning matters which have

been under dincuasion between PASSAVOY

and AMBUD-1.

Please sovise whether the AMBUD-1 letter (paragroph

of memo 93)

vas ever published. If not, AMBUD-l la ready to nubmit

1t to other newspapers.

3 °

In regard to memo no. 92 WAVE feels that the FORDC 1s working

tonard.

the unification of

Cubon labor elements but 18 not yet in a

position to set up permanent delegationn in Latin America.

Rather

the polic should be encouroged to work together with labor entities

in latin America which are already estoblished and rocognized as truly

democratically oriented and supported by KURARK asseta.

With the

AMED delegations and AMBARB organization throughout Latin Americo,

FORDe through its close relationship with AMBUD con present its case

to the Latin American publlo.

FORDe members of tours throughout

Latin America should be encouraged.

END OF DISPATCH

ATTACHKENT

Меов No, 87 - 93 (USC)

DISTRIPUTION

3 = Pher

- Chief, WHD

w/atto. (SC)

tres

dese

C's 45) 19-124-211s

~ CROSS ATTEMENCE TO

CLASSMICATION

SECRET

DATE INHED

6 DEC 61

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UPGA -2823

MEACIQUAHTENS FILE NUMBER

19-124-25/2

DATE UISIAICHLD

---

