# 104-10167-10235

## Page 1

4 10167-1023

104-10167-10235

232042420 402202 200000g

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1!.1

1:/275-1:

H3T 1377

madame fos: difice of the legislative innsel

...

TRIMI

Rayroni d. barren

Chicf. Latin Aserica Divisim

SUBJECT

Allegation by a Senior Cucon Piplonat

Conceiring

the Fole of Cuban ixiies

in

the Assassination of Presidina: Kennedy

1.

iccording to a fairly reiiable scutr., a senior

Cuban diploat stationed abread nade certain clarges in

late Septerber 1977 concerning the alleged

:ale of Cliar

ciles i: the assassination of President Join i

This diplocat nade these allegations to his

• jeanedi

in the crurse of an official

-alleagues.

diploma! said, nong

"coting in his crassy. The

giher things,

that Cuban criles

such as former Cuban

fir Force

officer Dia: lin (fai}

and others has been intalied in the assassinion of

President Kernedy.

The diplomat referred to pie 15535-

rinatich in the

conteit of a security. iccialsin

ke.clained.thai.counter-rerolationary. astiritics ig Cuban;

exiles haie inarcased in recent months:

Paraid!

that

recent information had arrited inplicatiolin = in it.

lennedy arrassination. The diplonat did no: cation an

other riban eriles by nore or provide any furtier details:

He did nos idertily the

source of his information, although

5E8 50006: 117

sions vers. tased.

of Fereign

afrairon a incene cabla froin the cuor Ministri

2.

This division has no other factual inforration

concernior thr diglonat'r allerations.

te blure that

"the basis

for

arricle

the dinlorat's ratenchi. ars,

appeared in the t'er fork

Thir

article mara Mirio-.

vile

splri...

usuritis

and fee mirrors

.1.0017. Pho 19981606 Colan

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Dọ Not Reproduce

SEPHIT.

F2. 190361

CL

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Mesia

ad the 10 Patris

sassinate

•• .=).

our:

lilr.r:

slee pricgation.

3.

Air fra=..

is a

lolaer chief of the lan

is there any rcerid

Rebel

that he

although he cruld have

been derriered ng us after he leêt Cuba.

There hake heck rarious press

articles in the

miering that bar ens?

bas a Cia agant.

Tas a teles or saclence co ches Acener ner is there

any inferration indicating that she ever was an agent

or empietro of this Ageney.

5.

The share inforration ray be passel in part or

in its

entirest io the truse Select Connitice on

Assas-

sinations.

The Fil has aiready been informor of che

significant details in

this matter.

Is! Esaiga V. Lauda:

ol Raymont 1. Harren

ora/ta/cre/rIes/Enkejigrow (1 soreher. 197".

Distritition:

Origil-illiossee

1 - LA/COG/Chrono

i: sinator

SA/ADDO (Benson Grayson)

10 Staff (Scott

Ho11

Prechinridge

19199)

•di

?

I/BR

---

