# 104-10175-10120

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10175-10120

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABLI SEC DISSEM BY

PERSOMMATT HETERO.

ADVANCE COPY ISSLICAHOTED

ACTON IMIT

RF.

TOTAL COMES

SECREY

FUN BY

FRE.

_ 5Y

VR .

AT

NOTON MY STREETIN

AGENCY MESSAGE

ACTIM &

+ 158383

PAGE 22°82

TOR: 62250Z APR 73

21-3

• IN 863327

SURiNGH PIER KARCH 1973

SMICHAEL HAZZARD, HANAGEMENT CONSULTANT, WILL PROGABLY

ATTEND INSTEAD OF BOLLA.

LORETTE MAY BE UNABLE ATTENA BECAUSE OF DUPENT BUSINESS

IN BRAZIL:

SO OF COURSE, THESE PEOPLE HAVE DEFINITE LOYALTYOTO-

STOCKHOLDERE BIAS, AND ARE GENERALLY QUITE CONSERVATIVE AND WOULD

NOT BE BEYOND TRYING TO LOBBY & BIT WITH SCARE STORIES OF

ECHEVERRIAIS TAKING MEXICO DOWN THE ROAD TO SOCIALISA, AND SO ON.

NEVERTHELESS, FEEL YOU CAN GET A LOT FROM DISCUSSIONS, AIMONET

HETJHICHTRICDS APRIL AND CAN GIVE YOU BRIEF ON PROPAGANDA

•CAMPAIGN WHICH ENCHAN IS CARRYING OUT ON ORN AND WITH REXICA

PRIVATE SECTER CONTAGES.

A, PAS ADVISE INAT QICHTRICHSCAN BE TELE RE PARA 1

ARRANGEMENTS:

S. NO FILE: EZ, IMPDET:

* ES SUGGEST OISSEM TO: OCI

DDI ONE

S

E

R

E

Card

S/RE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

001 80653851 BY-H

sUnT нотк.

LENATECOPY

ESSULRIELOTTES

TOM UNTI

WHS

RF.

aren

208

9 1507,83

fILE.

C/ ClOPS EL

IOTALCORES 18-2 aMEr

SECRET

AGENCY MESSAGE

VR. 1P/AN

ACTION COFY

PAGE 01

9ER1962B3RZ APR 73

73

STAFF

21-3

1N 883327

SMEXT, 23282 1

03,08

ECK T 952814

(6-7

CITE MEXICO CITY 23282

TRI DIRECTOR.

02

•2 KNACETONE

REFI JUMPAGES: 658 22 PEQUARY 1972

29

1, AMERICAN CHAMBER OF SOMMERCE MEXICO CANCHAMD WILL BE

KASHINGTON 27 APRIL a 4 MAY FOR ANNUAL US: CHAMBER MEET.

LAL MICHTALCHE EXECUTIVE SECRETARY HOPES TO BE ABLE TO MEES WISH

BKHERALD REPRESENTATIVES AS IN PAST: WOULD BE FLEASED WITH

LUNCH CON SO APRILI BUT AGAIN ASKED FOR BRIEFING CON & MAYS ON

03

LATIN AMERICA AT BUILDING PLUS EXCHANGE OF VIEKS, TOLDSWIEHIRICH

THAT HE MAY NOT BE SENSITIVE TO CLIMATE OF CHARGES OF COLLUSION

BETWEEN BUSINESS AND BKHERALD, BUT YOU MAY BE AND MIGHT HELL :

PREFER LUNCH PO MEETING IN BUILDING.

2, AGAIN RECOMMEND THAT WIMACE HOST LUNCH AND THAT HOGULF

• AND HOHORN LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLE AYTEND, THINK REUTEMAND WOULD

ENJOY HEARING THEIR VIENS AND FEEL HIGBY WOULD PROFIT FROM

MEETING THESE PEOPLE, THEY ARE LIMITED BUY USEFUL CONTACIS.

: ATSENDEES ARE AS LISTED IN ATTAENMENT TO EMNS 63.882 WITH

FOLLOWING CHANGESI

SEGRET

(/RS)

---

