# 104-10185-10101

## Page 1

104-10185-10101

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

AYO FORES DISSEA:

CoUNTRY Cuba

SUSECT Esther GAVant Rosales

HERONT NO.

CS C. 316/0032--64

DATE DISTRAUR

No ember cos

NO PAGES 14

REFERENCES CSCISS/ 82, 061 RETURNTO

29 June 1964 Backdround Use Day

DATE OF.

INFO.

1964-1

Do Not Reproduce

PLACE

Washington D. C

• DANE ACO

Septembe

FIELD PERORT NOT

SIS ENEVALUA

SOURCE A fermer Cuban oracer who served with the Cuban Intelligence service

until April 19640

Hendquarters Con sents

The torowing recast is one of a series containing personalty normaton

provided by the Source and includes supplemental information from the

records of this Agency.

It is réquested that the adoressees take no action on any of the individuals

mentioned in the persosality reports without first Checking with this Agency.

Esther GAVIN Rosales is the wife of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ

Lopez, the Subject af the above referenced report.

Héadquarters Comme:

24

1. Official travel manifests reveal that Esther GAVILAN Rosales arrived

in Mexico City from Cuba on 15 December 1961 and carried a distomac

passport; departed l'exico City for. Cuba on 27 April 1962, carrying

Cuban diplomatic passport rumber D/61-558; and arrived in Mesico

from Habana on 8 July IS6S, carrying Cuban diplomatic passport

rumber D/63/455.

5

4

3

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

MilY

I AIR.

CNiCSOE

STATE

• ARASY

REP CNCLANT

¡Nate: Fieid distribution indicorod by "_')

: 296/4

WE SA /20.3 1

WH SIR

Ili

VELED: CRIME ISLARITISH LU

IN NASSERA

TH JIVELL

5.25,11

TOTALS

VH/SA 7 (1), NỆ 1 (E% CIS, RID I

• ONSOLETE PRETZAS ISIONS

FORG TO

1.6 lin 2965

1 SES

052

•: FRI

L42322661

No Project HaNG 1)

Dema

'LIAISON

201-432665

---

