# 104-10186-10228

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10228

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION'

ERORTA

INFORMA LION RE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ORL

18. 6'8€

DArA SES ANS TAL INA CARITANNISO DE TOTRILS A MALS SA AZE MADDAS SO AN UNAUSRONIERA MAMAVA LA FETISITAS DE LAU

SECRET

NO FOREIG!

DISSEN

COUNTer Cuba

SUNECT Arturo HERYAVDEZ Tellerta

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSC1-316.01237-61

8 October 1964

r. e 152.

2

RETURN TO CIA Y

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE Of

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington,

D. C.

DATE ACQ. October 1964

RELD REPORT NO.

¡MIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE ORADINGS AET DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A formor Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

leadquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by tho source and includes supplemental

Information from

the records of this agency.

It is requested that tho addressees take no action on auy of

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agoncy.

Arturo HERNANDEZ Tellcria das a sergeant In BATISTA's

police force; he accompanded BATISTA when he was overthrown and

escaped to santo Domingo.

After a few days HERNANDEZ returned to

HERNANDEZ is now tho Chief vi Archives of the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

HERNANDEZ was born sometime prior to 1919.

He is five

fect. My, anches tall, 180 pounds, has a heavy build, and gray

Headquarters Connents:

1.

In a report dated 5 August 1959, a fairly reliable source

stated that Arturo TELLERIA Heraandez, a sergeant. 1s an

agent in Bureau "1" Archives of the Technical Department

of Investigation of the National Revolutionary Police (DTIPVR).

2.

In an official directive issued by the Technical Department of

Investigation of the Cubin Revolutionary Police on 20 April

1960, Arturo TELLERIA Hernander vas listed as a sergeant

in thes

Archives

Section.

This report was dated 19 October 1960.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

¡DIA

ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

INew

CINCSO-

Nore field distribution indicorat by "=*.)

INFORMATION REPOR

AIR

ISYS

I OCR

TBI 2

FORMATION REPORT

RHIS.L/EOB

HELSÍR

LEICLIADA

3LELBRIIIS

Hl-51-

1721.445

HH / S.A

7

LX - 1819

NO; PROJECT (AUSILO/1)

CSCI-316/01237-84

COOADINATIM

Espa

4/BR

(1), NE 1 (2), C1J,

RID I

419180%

---

## Page 2

14-00000

3.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-31G/01231-64

- 2=

A usually reliable source, in a report dated 12 August 1963,

said that one Arturo TELLERIA waS

a sergeant in the Technical

Department of Investigation (DI).

NO

E

C

FOREIGN

R

E T

DISSEM

---

