# 104-10170-10020

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10170-10020

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SESRET

15 Sorender 1962

MEMORANDLM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Converget lon witb M.

Rocha and MT. Laga

Afor Their Hoetleg ü1th Mr. Helas

PERSOYS PRESENT:

Luig Pornandes Roch,

sy 05 D. sanchez (ailan Nicholar or

TIME AND PLACE:

1700 bours, 13 Xovosbor 1962,

Dupont Plaza Hocol, Tradington, D.C.

-=.

1. Roche and Lasa vero very pleased and sappy.

orer thelr discussdona with Mr. Bolna. Daloes t.s. pollcy

Deconos one of coextutenco uith Castro, Racha 18 certala

tho Agency and the DRE can continue surually beneflcial

cooperation.

2. The purpose of thie conreration vas to dollue

the nore specifie polata ol disagreesent so rioned by

Rocha, BeSOTO start1i8 Bucha adalitod that sany of the

past disagreenents vero ainor but bad bocose "ebe berl1as."

of the DRE sAlaly beCause of the bannor in Mbich they

vero presented by their Minal contact. Is short they re-

suBod to be dactatad to and threatened. Rocha gavo bio

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEGRET

COPLACE 11 MIRAl A COPY Of tDO VElY AMerICRA, Do asTood

Eyla saBn't condumire to good relations but addod lo vas

BO fOd-Up by tula tina that the DRE felt 11 uRa IMpOssIblO

to discuas anything of inportanco vith thair contact say-

оду.

3. According to Roche the lollon1e8 Itons 1a order

of Importaaco have caused the post difficulty:

8. MIIItAry OpoSaBIODe: ThO; DRE 1O01S 18

has bood complotely chocked 1a tbia frold, ob

vously the s1old do shich they fool and asit

to be operating-ton thos tool thels plans aro

not corsidered serioualy and alternato plena.

hare not been presented to thes. They would 11ko

to know 1I the DRa la golng to be corsiderod for

partleipation la allitery operations (aaborego,

otc) or peraittod to conduct their oun? Rocha

clains 85% ol the DRI MeNDerAhID 10 oxllo aro

presently inactivo, they also have approxiastaly

30 sen tho here boon tralned by the Agorcy.

In abort a desiro to use the DRE senpover for

operations egalnot tDo Castro regina. Ao re-

quented by Ur. Holas, Racha agroed to presost

their plane for Agonay consideracion.

SERRET

---

## Page 3

4-00000

Ir.

SEGRET

Interrardosal Operatioan, bella laorscoo

(1). Adalolatrativo; Tho DRE kas 15 sea

Soldy liCludiag TieRe to send tO COuntrIos in

LatIn ADorIca.

They need too nosey and auldortiatios

to send tDon.

(2) They aro prepostiog a plas to bave too

"ErarOllaS secrolariog" sho could traval and clack

the actlvitles of the dillorent dologations. Thay

21s0 fool there is s nood at prosent for a noeling

or rounlos of she chiefe of their delegations 1a-

ordor to formulato sos plasa and targota. Rocha

soals the old thaios of dlecroditing Caairo, ba-

tIRJAl Of Rerolution, ote,, here lost tbels steas

and son propaganda shones must do developod.

(Rochs 1a persolelly Intoronted und adaltied that

eras 11 and shon tha Cubes problen 18 resulrad the

DRE VANCO tO COntIIUO lIa OporaTIOng 1a Latla

Anorices. I lstroducod the subjoct of continued

Puturo 1018 TaDge cooperation, Roche and lada

both agreed thia rould do tory destrable providod

kaonlodgo of this couporation could and mould ba.

Insted to the top loadership of iDe DRE, Pearlag

they rouid bo rondered completely thellocilre 11

---

## Page 4

4-00000

SCORET

Latla daorics.

lagrood thia vould not to de-

alrablo for eliDer pArty, Thay Clala Cbla i0

uhat bag dapperad to tbalr dolegato 1a i1na

and the roador for pulliny bis out.. They ed-

alt he has diso a trosendous Job but aspardod

so last and 1s dolds do such he bas does ¿abolod

& CIA AgOAT. BOChA AdAlIA tHO PALIUTO O1 lLo

Gas dep la tast do did too good of e job,

1r0a1cid an 131s say sousd. Bocha clalas

Poruriano sero netod hia uhy the DRI has a

ClA agost 38 BoP 1n L1B0.)

(3) The discusalon brought up the sabject

O1 SAlArIEA LiT PRI:WA RODE ANd ENO DOJiS PAY

then. Rocka sinitted thla subjoce and lla do-

tActos taste dATo DOCOnO tho "Borlias of te DRE".

Be agIOOd IDe! MOre sIsOr COmpArOd tO the lupUrIaCO

of the overail relatlosship. I suggosted it vas

INCOSCOIVADIO TO NO tHAI RUNO ArIBSSONCLE ECCEPIADIO

to both persias couldn't do reached os mer alnor

STORIBe" BerlIa pOSItIOn.) I used the 11se that

iK21

60p0-4:1 019798

Sir. 1M:85 10

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

for

chels fartistier countIles thether their ora or ono

1n maich their holp vas autod by snothor elozent

of the AgencY. Il sen the Agoncy deprogentatlves

18 tRO LA COBI:SION UDO POlE 18 DOCOBRArY tO SATO

tho FOSpoRBISiilty to pay tho BalaRios of thols

they voro autod to becono inrolvod oila, I auggestod

I LOIt JE TAS & BILII CONCOBELON tO BALO 1OI IDO

benefita de i1as lacludad) toro dortalag Iron tb1s

cooporation. Ruche stread, but 18 vas oridors so

Was 0t111 2255128 d1a 1008 so I brought ap tho

subject of lie bal goreral lund and dou 1f to DRE

did not pay soo salaries they gould hold back tho

POrCOLIAgOS MOIUtAI1lY" IrON ORCA BeD's sAlRTy.

I BUgseAtOd lINS prObably an arrRageDent could be

TORCHOd MILA SJOLT DON MIANS COSTACE tUAT thA BAlATY

Could Do SpilS, DOTAlEELAS AgenCy ROpE, tO pay the

DRE Rops 15Il the salarlos agroad to, and 81v10g

DRE UNd 19 kiRal the percontago they mould hold

baCK 11 tRAY ESONDOlYOS MeSO PAYlOS. the sAlArIOs.

Both ROCAR ded Ians admIttad thay perSOLally solt

SECTET

RENACIS 8TA estatt

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

a ronnorable approach sad adallted ibpy...

socilo astoo to sucò a solution, but demirad lo

dim-uas 16 s1tn tho1r pooplo 10 M1au1. (pro-

arably Manuel Salvar), I nado li clear tras

"to abore mas only a porsosai lden sa hou l solt

an agreemest could do roached. Laos la:alig to

Bacha consantoS that hO van CortalS ay AgreesOnE

could ba reached and ho personally agrood to

mes a solution.. (lase puabod Rocha lato alsting

so also agrood).

(4) Rogardlag the uno of the lle dotector

I told Boche 1 vas sos Istorestod in Dor the sub

Joe 'bad broached tità then but salt 19 they sero

al all BOrIOUBly IntOrOSIOd 1A tha BOCUrily of their

it herd to bollave non they

could afford sot to tato advantago of thia ald to

kaop IbeRIalTon STOM bola8 pesotratod. The Agency

1s certaInly coscorDed over the possibillty that

* Erous Mith maica sherato coopeatise could bo

peratratod and ho, Rochs, an the froup leador should

Do eves sore coscorsed, apacially thon be 1a ro-

stoRaible for tha lIvos of 1adiridunlo la boatilo

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SEGRET

corIstOry, Roch s'aied thia concorIod dia vory

suCh and did agogo to tasE 1Do RID'a sad IndIvIdu.

ala IIf1lErRiad,: But, I askod ROCha did dO BOnently

I contioued that to

ROOT SO MOll aS I that to connuniata vero capablo

Of panetrating at raider diga lorala, do proven by

KIONS CaDOs UbICh daro DoOs uncorarod. JurEDer-

nuro, I conflued, an a respondlblo londos do abould

IInd 1E d11f1cult to est blo son to undortako sono-

1h158 to mould Dot do 11as011, altor 11l tbla 18 a

basle prlacipal of good loRdorablp. Tals approach

risibly rocked Rocks especially with lack sodding

PIOSUBOly In AgTODIOD! (ThlO T01l0n laBs Must bo

kept around so & prop). Roche then related the story

of how eves the jesulta baro boos posetratad. Agala,

I sated Rocha to coasidor the llo dotoctor tasta on

the daals of an ald for their ond protection.

(3) Flnancos: Roche exprossed sopo that no

rould not coatinue the prosent dyston of requentiag

Punds by vilttes sonorandon for esch exponditured

He conlalnod tuld Invoired much pajer work, and many

t1908 boCHudA of the clay 19 TOCOlTIAN approYal,

soretises 3-d daya, operational opporzualtion mould

Do sissed. I sinlicod I vas sut inaro of tho

BErTRES MEE BESTIO

0708,,52.84 51

27-277vel: :I:.23

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

IlnancIal syston bellg uned bus 18 thuy voro

expertoncles difficultion I encouragod thes to

ACCopt NT. HolMa' Osor and Bot Up a Byatos nita:

the dolp of an Agency axport.

They vero concernod over not barlag secelred the opor-:

atlonel exponues for lovenber and vondorad thon they could

expoct then.

I gronised to chock.

VESTOR LES

SAYCHEL

TYY/PA-PROP

tes no strash

пDITА.ПM

---

