‘t04-107186-40244

[2 —_ RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY beste RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Thue material contains Information afecting the Rational Usfenee of the Catted Slates within the meaning of the Baplonags Laws, Tite
HE CBC Gees THD and To, the (exnserimion of Ferelation of why h in amy manner tw an unauthorised person 12 pronibited oy tew,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
couNTRy “Cut a REPORT NO. = CCI-316/01216-64
sumect Sesus CALAS Rodriguez DATE DISTR. §=—-16 September a oS
NO. PaGES| 1 &S ats
\ J
REFERENCES: Soget
< a) eS
wo.” 1959 oe
Washington, D. C. \
bate aca September 1964 FIELO REPORT NO.

THis 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOUNCE OSADINOS ARE DLIINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE,

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban I.
Service until April 1964, et

Headquarters Comments
Tke followimg report is one of a weries containing personality

formation provided by the source and. includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

+ 4s requested that tho addressees take no action on any of -.
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Source met Jesus CALAS Rodriguez in the Department
of Irvestigations of ‘the Police in 1959,

2. CALAS was born in Santiago de Cuba, Oriente Province, Cuba,
about i936. He is five foet seven inches tall, 145 pounds, has
a medium build, black, curly hair, and a thin moustache. His
famliy resides 4n Habana,

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
on CALAS,

Heena

SECRET iactesecn os |

JE
Sg Te Te Trg SR RS Ts ra
B_CISCLANT__CINCSO_# 1kNS

Fisld divibution Indected by

farsa e0g: we Sa aout Tire {ean ana, i Ux - 1687

jw S$ NCE chs & SLE, irigit. [il NO PROJECT (AMMUG/1L)

pers4R— : fs LAWASHE DRILL ————1_sc1~316/01216-44
$4244 I | ‘

pet it Cer crn e

yp eave

T
[
re wa/sa’7 Gi), WEA (2), Cl 4, RIDL .

ie

i iMK :

201 - None 19-6-102/

popexo ousotine PREVIOES EDITIONS ia
