"*404-10222-10047) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

(ahen Fitted Ind

mL, cay SECRET : x

rer

006830

Te onabe i io

Taesenve a om 7
POE oma (dee tpioction = Section €)

Th pate meront DUE IN OP

28 Peunary 1965

7, A tating In thie covegory requires
further waining: te placing on
ted In Section Ce

+ Adewvate’

P + Profici
$+ Strong
0 - Quistending

She of the most imps formed. duting the ‘ating period.
EACH tprcilie duty. Consider ONLY elfectivene:

duty. Alt
supsreteosts

StaCf Agent responsible for KURARK interests jn supervison of a complex
technical operation.

Supervislon of ten Yextean

2 at talents. Based on your knowledge ci weniayers ove Jatin the eating heal
ine ‘stfng bos corresponding to the afotcinar shih ment cee Migets nis level ef pertormence:|

: . SECRET


SECRET

then Hitt tnd

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

cer, outsize
ms hls worz
cedicated, puts in many 7

This officer works 301

works,

especially dimortant.

Tt 43 urred that tid.
reward fer. tits excellent

2:

*iengtvn or wnobnseses domonatreted In ecrrom
i Singin nfs Kr tngacamant af Sh pnemoniteChee acento
MW veqsired lor catont panition, Anplity ee eeplein catenin a

Monaes ef pettermanen sl manezerial ov supers Ay ay

week, He 1s prompt and efficient. ' bag

Tats Project 1s conzidereii by iieadquirters to be ons of the tect i
vorld and a large part of tie credit for this should 0 to this officer.

yen

se officer for the LIFIN®
excentional proficten
(eech week) beyond the

ly with indigenous: nergonnel. ie keens YUBARK:

interests paranount, yet does not offerd the locals «Ath whom ne lives and

This officer 13 ezcellent-as a technician -.a part of his fon vhich is

fieer be firmodiately prévoted to GS-13 aq a.
arG. strong, dod }eatlon to Hs

MOTHS RUB COTEE TAT OREN —
UNGER we surenvisiON ©

[Seria yi

“Hare 1965 | cf

