“'404-10103-10087) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

wy

Zo Fel 12, CA
“7 Jaen 72

EVERETTE HOWARD HUNT, IR. feeee

‘i, Subject, a former GS-15 Cperations Officer assigned
to DDP/Europe, is 53 years of age and married, He sexved ‘with 0"
the Oifice of Strategic Services during World War I, and was employed —
by this Agency from November 1949 until his voluntasy retirement :
on 30 April 1970. -In 1971, Subject served as an advisor to President
Nixon in relation to his trip to China. Subject is of curxent interest
‘to the Central Cover Staif, ~ . F : 3 $ *

: | 2. Subject graduated from Brown University in 1940. -He |. -
. | Sexved with the United States Navy from early 1943 until late 1942,
|.” After a year with Time, Incorporated, he entersd the Air Force, .
where he was detailed to the Oifice of Strategic Services, _ He served
in the Far East until January 1946, Subject engaged in writing, and tae
then from May 1948 until February 1949’ was employed by the Economic ...
Cooperation Administration, serving in Paris, France, az an aide to
Avarell Harriman. : nc cee Lae Be

3. A background investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau *
of Inyestigation in July 1949 revealed no indication of instability on
Subject’s part, but it was later learndd that Subject had been refused -

'.@n Increase in salary with the Economic Cooperation Administration . ¢ °° -- ©
and had been permitted to resign. He was described as highly intelligenr, ~ -
but blindly selfish and egotistical. duane i:

‘4, Subject's wife, Dorothy Louise Gontiesre Hunt, was investigaied:

| for Agency craployment in 1943. Her formes husband wag described :
23 a habiteal drunkard, and Subject's wife was described as slightly
unstable and not inclined to remain in one place ior any length of time.
She did not eater on duty, having accepted a position with the Economic .
Cooperation Administration in Paris, Our Paris sources later reported .
that Subject’s wife was formerly his mistress and was openly Mounted
ae such for several months, She was then described as an amoral and
dangerous individual who underhandedly attacked those person:
‘incurred her enmity.’ emia i eveireaeeere ie :

Background Usé Only -
Do Not Reproduce: =



_ "Give Us This Day." & manuscript written under his former operational -

. and Company 2s well, Both yejectad it as too controversial, as nad”

oe 1

5. Sudject entered on duty as an Intelligence Cificer. GS-13,
on 8 Novernber 1949, In December 1950 he was assigned as Chief
of Station, Mexico City, and then served as Chief pf Mission there
yatil August 1953. He served in Tokyo, Japan, from June 1954 -
until February 1957. He was then assigned a3 Chief oi Station,
Montevideo, Uruguay Subject was Chief of Station in Montevideo
until early 1950. There ware {ndications that Subject attempted
to use his personal influence with the President of Urugsay to havs
his assignment thers extended, but he returned te the United States

’ $m June 1960 and was assigned to Mexico City on Project JMARG.

$6 A cable from Montevideo, dated 6 November 1960, indicates -
that Subject had written former Uruguayan contacts commenting that :
“he was working 03 the Cuoaa problem and publishing an anti-Castro
nawspaper in Miami, It waa yecormmended that Subject be warned
about such indiscreat remarks, but apparently 20 action was taken.

. -7. In Noveriber 1961, Subject was reassigned to the ppP/ .
_ Covert Action Siaff, and ja January 1962 te the Cfice of the Chief
of the same Staff. In Joly 1962 Sudject was transferved to the PODS _
“Research and Publication> Section in-Washington, aad in July 1 964
t6 the DODS Covert ‘Action Staff, In February 1985 he moved to the
Oifice of the DDP/ Operations Group. From June 1965 to September
1966 Subject served 2s 2 Contract Agent in Madrid, Spain, after ca
which he served in the DDP as Chief of Buropean Covert Operations ©:
patil his retirement on 30 April 1979.- Deere tee eati cee

- 8 On 26 January 1970 a sonres of the Office of Security -
learned that Subject was circulating through the publishing coxamauaity

alias and dealing with the events of the Bay of Pigs. Investigation .-.
disclossd that the manuscript had been in the possession of Tom Wallace,
of Holt, Rinehazt, and Winston, Inc. as early 23 9 July 1968 and that Meg
jt was sent on that date to Williaza F. Buckley, Jr-> of the Natiovak . -.

Review. The manuscript was sent to the Arlington House and Walker —

Holt, Rinebazt, and Winston.



9. Subject was interviewed regarding the im:
ebroary 1970 by the DDP, He at first profes:
a told the title admitted he had wr
storicai xecord. Swboject said he had shown the maz
WO years ago to bis agent, Maz Wilkinson, and to Ww pest
dz. He said he had only wanted an opinion from these
ee d that the manuscript had been returned to him. He had, he said,
ot syanted it published, Subject was instructed as to ths danger of such
a oe being published, and was to atte ampt to detexmine how
many copies of it might be in circulation, Hs was not to contac: Walkar
and Company, who were the source of ihe original infoxmation,

0, A reiavestigation of Subject was conducted by the Office of
Security in Jnly 1970. Subject and bis wife were desevibed by six
neighbors acquainted with them for up to nine years, ay ee
paxents, good neighbors, aud five community citizens.

ll, On 29 aly 1971, Subject was reported by tha Jersey ee
‘New Jersey, Jonzcal to bays joined the White House Staffaaa
Congrlinnt to President Nixon preparatory to the President’s visit to
ths Peoples Republic of China,

12. On & Novernber 1970, Subject was granted a Covert Security
Approval for use by Centzal Cover Stal with Robert R, pees aad
Company, a Pobdlic Relations firm with offices at 1729 Street, Morth-
west, Wasbtiagton, D.C. Inguiry of the Ceatxal Cover Stalé on 19 Sanz
1972 revealed that this ie a cursent relationship. Suoject, as principal
officar of Robert R, Melien and Company, is wifting of covey arzange- -
meats fox two Agency asaets 223 leverety i Netherlands} ;

in nm : : 7:

Sobject's security file reflects that Subject has, in the past,
yational interest to Mz. James Angliston, Chief, Ci Staif/RDP,
ection with an operational matter, On 19 Fume 1972, Mr. Fred

GL Staci, advised that he will provide information as to the

Myx. Angleton's utilization of Subject,

Hoy

