# 104-10161-10383

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10161-10383

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

E

S'ECRET

TEL EPOUCH

DISP NO

-

FILF. NO

201-749551

DATF.

-

13 JANUARY 1973

INDEXING

-

NO

MICROFILM - NO

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

- CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

- CHIEF OF STATION, WH/WIANI

ORECUEST FOR ASSISTANCE ON

CITIZENSHIP

• FOR AMDUG I

ACTION

- PARA 69 BELO!'

REFERENCE - NONE

1. AMMUG I HAS A STRONG INTEREST AND

NEED TO

_. BECOME A MATURALIZED

SERICAN

CITIZEN. HE HAS MADE

APPLICATION TO

, WHICH IF ACCEPTED,

HE HAS

WILL. REQUIRE HIM TO TRAVEL TOI

BEEN ASSURED THAT RUROCK WILL ATTEMPT ASSIST HIM IN

OBTAINING HIS PAPERS.

2. AMMUGI HAS NOT FILED AN APPLICATION FOR

NATURALIZATION LOCALLY BECAUSE HE IS AWARE THAT

HE WILL BE REQUIRED TO ANSWER SPECIFIC QUESTIONS

• ABOUT HIS ENTRY INTO THE COUNTRY, ADDRESSES IN THE

SIATES, EMPLOYM

REFERENCES, POLITICAL BACKGROUND,

AND OTHER QUESTIONS IN DELICATE OPERATIONAL AREAS.

HE REALIZES THAI HE CANNOT ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS

WITHOUT RUROCK TUTORING. WH/IAMI HAS BROACHED

i nice .. .

---

## Page 2

14-00000

•DATE: =13

JANUARY. 197.9

INDEXING

-'NO

MICROFILE -

NO

TO

FROM

- CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

- CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI

RECUEST FOR ASSISTANCE ON CITIZENSHIP

SUBJECT

-

FOR AMMUG/I

ACTION

- PARA S, BELO!!!

REFERENCE - NONE

1. AMMUGI HAS A STRONG INTEREST AND NEED TO

.. BECOME A NATURALIZED AMERICAN CITIZEN. HE HAS MADE

APPLICATION TO

WHICH IF ACCEPTED,

WILL REQUIRE HIM TO TRAVEL TO

HE HAS

BEEN ASSURED THAT RUROCK WILL ATTEMPT ASSIST HIM IN

OBTAINING HIS PAPERS.

2. AMMUG I HAS NOT FILED AN APPLICATION FOR

NATURALIZATION LOCALLY BECAUSE HE IS AWARE THAT

HE WILL BE REQUIRED TO ANSWER SPECIFIC QUESTIONS

• ABOUT HIS ENTRY INTO THE COUNTRY, ADDRESSES IN THE

STATES, EMPLOYNT

REFERENCES, POLITICAL BACKGROUND,

AND CINER QUESTIONS IN DELICATE OPERATIONAL AREAS.

HE REALIZES THAT HE CANNOT ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS

WITHOUT RUROCK TUTORING. WA/MIAMI HAS BROACHED

IMIS SUBJECT, IN A GENERAL WAY, WITH LOCAL IMMIGRATION !

A!'D WE HAVE BEEN ADVISED THAT IO RESOLVE THE

PROBLEM, WE WOULD HAVE TO HANDLE ON THE

WASHINGTON LEVEL.

3. A REVIE!! OF AMMUG/L'S HISTORY MILL

CFAX-IY

SECRETLI

→ PAGE ONE

din; cade

i1E11-iL11

:

3371

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET EEN US! PAGE TWO

SHOW THAT HE WAS BROUGHT INTO STATES BLACK

"FROi, CANADA II! APRIL 1964. HE WAS DEBRIEFED

FOR SEVERAL MONTHS BY HOS AND THEN SETTLED

IN MIAMI. HE WAS NOT PUT ON A COVER PAYROLL

UNTIL 19SS AND THEN TERMINATED ABOUT YEAR

LATER, AT WHICH TINE HE BEGAN OVERT JOB.

THUS, WOULD FACE

EMBARRASSING PROBLEM

OF AÏSWERING. DETAILED INMIGRATION QUESTIONS

O ENTRY AND EMPLOYMENT BACKGROUND, NOT

TO MENTION PREVIOUS AMSTAFF EMPLOYMENT

'PRIOR TO DEFECTIO!.

4. ANMUG/1 HAS BEEN ASSURED THAT SHOULD

HE HAVE THE OCCASION TO TRAVEL OUTSIDE THE

STATES IN THE NEAR FUTURE, WH/NIANI IS IN

A POSITION TO FACILITATE THE ISSUANCE OF

A REENTRY PERMIT IN A SHORI TIME. OUR

LIAISON CONTACI IN LOCAL IMMIGRATION HAS

ASSURED US ON THIS POINT.

IAN PLS NOTE THAI HENRY S. PACHANKIS

IS IN PERIODIC CONTACT WITH AMMUG/1 AND

IS

CURRENTLY DEBRIEFING HIM ON THE CUIS NAMES

PROVIDED BY AMBEDEW/1. A DISPAICH ON THESE

DEBRIEFINGS IS UNDER PREPARATION.

6. IN THE MEANTIME, WE REQUEST THAT

HE AD QUARTERS INITIATE ACTION WITH IMPIGRATION

---

## Page 4

14-00000

"IN MIAMI. HE WAS NOT PUT ON A COVER PAYROLL

UNTIL TOSS AND THE TERMINATED ABOUT YEAR

LATER, AT !HICH IIDE HE BEGAN OVERT JOB.

THUS, WOULD FACE ENBARRASSING PROBLEM

OF ANSWERING. DETAILED INMIGRATION QUESTIONS

ON ENTRY AND EMPLOYMENT BACKGROUND, NOT

TO NENTION PREVIOUS AMSTAFF EMPLOYMENT

PRIOR TO DEFECTIO!.

4. AMMUG/I HAS BEEN ASSURED THAT SHOULD

HE HAVE THE OCCASION TO TRAVEL OUTSIDE THE

STATES IN THE NEAR FUTURE, WH/MIAMI IS IN

A POSITION TO FACILITATE THE ISSUANCE OF

A REENTRY PERMIT IN A SHORT TIME. OUR

LIAISON CONTACI IN LOCAL IMMIGRATION HAS

ASSURED US ON THIS POINT.

INTM

PLS NOTE THAT HENRY S. PACHANKIS

IS IN PERIODIC CONTACT WITH AMMUG/I AND IS

CURRENTLY DEBRIEFING HIM ON THE CUIS NAMES

PROVIDED SY AMBEDEW 1. A DISPAICH ON THESE

DEBRIEFINGS IS UNDER PREPARATION.

6. IN THE NEANTIME, WE REQUEST THAT

HEADQUARTERS INITIATE ACTION WITH IMMIGRATION

ID'ARD GRANTING AMMUG/I HIS NATURALIZATION

PAPERS. PLS FORWARD ANY QUESTIONS THAT AMMUSI

CAN PROVIDE TO ACCOMPLISH THIS. IF IT WOULD

PROVE TO BE MORE EXPEDITIOUS, WH/MIAMI HAS

NO OBJECTIONS TO SPONSORE A TRIP TO

UFAX-

SECRET CONTES PAGE TWO

IRFAA- !2P1

---

## Page 5

14-00000

UFAX-1Y

SECRET UE IS PAGE THREE

WASHINGTON BY AMMUG/I TO HELP RESOLVE

DANY OUTSIA DING QUESTIONS OR PROBLEMS

ENCOUNTERED ON THE ABOVE. ALSO, A PROMPT

REPLY TO ANY ACTION HEADQUARTERS CAN TAKE

ON ANMUG/1'S CASE IS REQUESTED. THE AGENT

IS MOST ANXIOUS TO LEARW OF ANY PROGRESS

THAT IS MADE TOWARD HIS CITIZENSHIP.

_03

DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH

•3 - CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

UFAX-IY

SECRE I CHILESI PAGE THREE

BT

N

-

/ i

---

## Page 6

14-00000

• ENCOUDEREU UN IAL ADUVE. ALSU, A PRUNTI

• REPLY TO ANY ACTION HEADQUARTERS CAN TAKE

•ON ANMUG/I'S CASE IS REQUESTED. THE AGENT

IS MOST ANXIOUS TO LEARN OF ANY PROGRESS

THAT IS MADE TOWARD HIS CITIZENSHIP.

Doz

DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH

3 - CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

UFAX-IY

SECRET CARDI PAGE THREE

BT

N

N

Your

Bug red an

17.81

---

