# 104-10192-10247

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10192-10247

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

•SECRET

DATE LI MAY 63 33/40

' DIRECTOR

FROM .

ACTION

ROUTING

15

MAY 1 1 19492.63

ROUTINE

IN

36838

106508-3/654,603

DOP,

ADOP,

SOO 6, CA 2, CA/PEG; CA/PROP, CA/O 4,

C1/ 0p9, 01/10. 2,

151, 51/0, 91/INT 6,

SAS 12,

UM 6, RI/AN, 0D/!, AO/CI 2, A0/NE, S/CZ

"DIR CITE WAVE 8316.

INTEL TYPIC

MAY ZO 1969

DOC, MICRO. OER.

SUPDATA: AMRAZZ-I OF THE MRP.

RID:

INDEX.

FILED 11/1714Z

REPORT CLASSI

CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: INTEREST OF 38 NOVEMBER REVOLUTIONARY AND MONTECRISTI 19 - 120 - 22

MOVEMENTS

IN JOINING NEWLY AMALGAMATED ORGANIZATION.

809-300-31

19-120-10

D01: 26

APRIL - 3 MAY 63 :

FADA: US 3 MAY .63

819-120-37

UFG-2815

APOR: 3

SOURCE:

ROUTING

CURAN LAWYER (C) WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS

ANT: B/ AN

CASTRO GROUPS IN CUBA AND IN EXILE.

PIP/MES

INITIAL

Aut

IW COMMENT:

HO BEPARATE CABLE DISTRIBUTIO.

B BEING MADE OF THIS TDOE

RID/FI

SAS

MH REG

HM/PACY

5

-RELEASiNG INO.

W. Streetes Basa

STREETER GASS

103

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

11 var 1963

23512

BASED ON:

ibCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTiNE

PRIORITY

ure 2815

NP/AMAZZ-I

LIAISON:

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-126-22

Copy No.

ypr

---

## Page 2

IN

CONFICENTIAL

TOCS 08-3/654,603

CONTROLLED DISSEM

PAGE

30 NOVEMEER GROUP. IT IRTY GECAME APFARENT, HOWEVER, THAT

RODRIGUEZ WAS TRYING TO FIND AN ORGANIZATION WHICH COULO BE LED

BY JOSE (MIRO) CARDONA, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE CUSAN REVOLUTIONARY

COUNCIL (CRC): ALTHOUGH THE 38 NOVEMEER GROUP DID NOT MAKE MIRO'S

LEADERSHIP A STIPULATION OF THEIR AGREEMENT, THE MAP, SUSPICIOUS

OF THE MOTIVES OF THE jA NOVEMBER GROUP, BACKED OUT OF THE

NEGOTIATIONS. (SOURCE COMMENTS ON 29 APRIL AT 1I A.M. RADIO

CARIBE IN SANTO DOMINGO CARRIED A THREE-MINUTE MRP TAPE AS PART

OF A HALF-HOUR BROADCAST FEGULARLY PRODUCED BY MAY LESNICK AND

BEAMED TO IHE CUBAN PORISATION, MRP PUBLIC RELATIONS COORDINATOR

JOAQUIN (GODOY) SOLTS DELITERED THE MRI MESSAGE WHICH ANNOUNCED

THE UNIFICATION OF THE MRE WITH ALPMA-66 AND THE SENE AND CALLED

FOR THE UNDERROUND TO UNITE WITH THE REBEL ARMY AND MILITIA TO

PREPARE TO REPUDIATE THE SELL-OUT OF CUBAN SOVEREIGNTY.).

2. AS OF 3 MAY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE 30 NOVEMBER AND

MONTECRISTI MOVEMENTS HAD RESUMED DISCUSSIONS WITH THE MRP

ON POSSISLE UNIFICATION, AFPARENTLY NOW WILLING TO DROP THEIR

PREVIOUS INSISTENCE THAT MIRO BE APPOINTED TO A HIGH POST IN

THE AMALGANATED ORGANIZATION, (SOURCE COMMENT: THESE TWO GROUPS

HAVE MUCH IN COMMON WITH THE MRP IN THEIR GENERAL MAKE-UP AND

POLITICAL CRIENTATION. THEIR APPROACHES TO THE MAP ARE INTER-

FRETED EY MOP OFFICIALS AS THEIR LAST CHANCE TO FIND A "HOME", SINCE

ARCARCETON.

DiSSEMINATION CONTROIS

CONFICENTIAL

токм:к.1

Se MAN ELS

1.09

1s? 00.5

CONTROLLED DISSEM

MIG. 7-03

CONTNLATON OF IDES INFORMATION REPORT

36838

2

125-25962°

---

## Page 3

14-00000

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT [TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

' natuld so interacion

roden i do total 100-00000 dead done ano la use sore

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION

DISSEMINATION CONTROIS

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY

CUBA

SUNECT

INTEREST OF. THE 30 NOVEMBER RENGLUTIONARY

ANO MONTECRISTI MOVEMENTS IM JINING NEWLY

REPORT NO.

T06500-3/654,603

DATE DISTR.

11 aY 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

26 APRIL-3 MAY 1963

RESERENCES

PLACE &

IN

36838

UNITIO STATES (3 MAY 1963)

DATE ACO.

Y

APPRAISAL

3

FIELO REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

A CUBAN LANTER (C) MITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS AMONG ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS

IN CUBA AND IN EXILE.

AlL CARdS →

RE. CONSCLIdATION ON ANTI-CASTRO

GROups INTO UNIfIrE gRiNPa

1. ON AGOUT 26 APRIL IUÓ3 ORLANDO

Cer; (ubn

¡RODRIGUEZ) PEREZ, LEADER

OF (THO 38 NOVEMBER REVOLUTI@KIRY MOVEMENT, APPROACHED OFFICIALS

OF THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEULO (MRP, REVOLUTIONARY.

MOVEMENT OF THE PEOPLE) WITH THE PROPOSAL THAT HIS GROUP JOIN

THE NEWLY AMALGAMATED ORGANIZATION OF HE MRP, ALPHA 66, AND THE

SEGUNDA FRENTE NACIONAL DE ESCAMERAY. (SENE, SECOND NATIONAL FRONT

OF THE ESCAMERAY). MRP OFFICIALS AT FIRST WERE DELIGHTED AT THE

PROSPECTS OF THEIR EECOMING THE CENTER FOR GENERAL UNIFICATION

OF EXILE GROUPS AND MADE APRANGEMENTS FOR THE INTERGRATION OF THE

CUASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

MANN 1A18 00S S40065

LING

TSLASURY

MACLANE

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

+74.0 -

DRA IKO OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(19 20)

---

## Page 4

14-00000

1955=003/654,003

MIRO FAILED TO ORGANIZE THE AGiL GiGG AND COURS WHICH LEFT

THE GRE WITH MA, AND SUNGS THEY CAN DOT GOTO THE CUNTA SELE

SATISTIANOS.)

EXPECTED TO INTEND A CONGERENCE GO GUER TO SCHELO AT THE LIVERSITY

THE MUTATION WAS ISQUED SY DECECTCobR

REAL AN A TERESTION OF MAI

W. TOY AN

a lash re;

CUZAN LAWYER IN WASHINGTON, ELLA LE PRESTONOS WITH THE SE

FIELD DISSEME

=.SCARIB

CINCLANT

C..11..00 1

11 Tideg 63

19-20-72

---

