# 104-10169-10126

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10169-10126

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

G-7984

27 March 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chiel, DDIPISR

ATTENTION

• SR-6/Chan. Cox]

SUBJECT.

¿ Graphological Analyais (15637-X)

REFERENCE

; Memo of sequest, 21 March 1962

1. In responso to reference requent, subject handwriting

vas submitted to a graphological analysis. A report of that

analysis do attached.. Graphological reporte forwarded by ISD

are produced by a trained analyst availablo on a contract basis.

TSD does not, within itself, possess the capability to evaluate

individual soporte and they are transmitted without editing or

comment.

2. All phyaical evidence submitted by the requester la

attachod.

1.8 Устал

HERMAN E. KIMSEY

C/TSD/GARB/A&R

Distribution:

Orig- and 1 - Addressee

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Attach, to G-7984

СаВа 815637-X

AGE: 35

NATIONALITY: Russian

SEX: Male

Proliminary Survey:

Due to the inadequacy of the submitted material, only tontativo

summarizing atatements cas be made.

Sammarising Statemento: • :

The writer is evidently a,reserved and careful person who

attendo to hia affairs in a rather deliberate manner.

Но розвоваев а

8ood intelligence (not brillant), is well educared and professionally

trained. Ho has thoroughly absorbed the material he has read and

atudied and knows how to utilise it in a purposeful mannas. His way.

al thinking ls clear, logical and fairly adaprable. He apparontly la

anxious to learn new things and to wid:n his horizon. Ho has some

intelloctual ambitions, but the emphasis of his interesta is in the

practical aphere.

He does not posness much originality, but he

Identifies himself with well-selected patterns which may lot him

appoas more sophisitcated than lie actually is. Ho discarde unneces-

sasy and superfluous material, but he may not discera the vital podato

lo moso intricate and unfamiliar problems unless proparly pointed out

to blm. He la a careful observer of small details which he correlates

proporly to their larger aspects within his familiar framo of referenco.

Ho combinos a certain amount of imagination with sober-mindednosa

and matter-of-factness. He tries to expedito his work, but ho la not

Ilkoly to sacrifice accuracy to expedioncy: His critical faculties aro

well doveloped and ho evaluates by rather set atandarde. Also, ho

do not likely to voice his criticiam openly as ho tende to avoid open

controversles. Within the area of his knowledge and experienco, ho

can exorcise initiative and deal with the overall pisture of a projaçt.

He has some understanding for mechanical functioning which may not

•De fully tralrod and expluitra. He can figure and calculato and he bas

Joarned to think in larger tornis and transactions. He la conservativo

in blo calculations and le will mako overy possible effort to got along

with the monay and matorial at bla disposal. Secretely, ho would Ilke to

spond monoy freely and play the role of a big shot. He has somo

administrativo abilities which ho can exercise within a limited famillas

ason. In rolation to this, ho can work out the blueprint of a plan and

supervine len propor axecution.. Ho is neat and ordarly and ho likes to

astango evorything in a propor mannes. Ho can take ordors, follow

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

+25637-X

G-7984

prescribed rules and regulations and be. will take care that people who

work for him do the same. In the execution of his rasks, he is exact,

conscientious and reliable. • He is serious, methodical and systematic

in his approach. He can express himsell in an adequate form, verbally

as well as in writing. He is able to present his material in a conciso

and understandable manner. He is not likely to say one word more

than would be absolutely necessary, which is one of hin customary

precautions. He is a diligent worker who pursues his aims persist-

ently and who does n't rest until the last item of an assignment la

completed. Whon necessary, ho can mus ter a considerable amouat

of patience. His analysing and synthenizing facultios are not particu-

larly pronounced, but he has a way of figuring out the implicationa of

the things he seen and hears and usually he comes to the correct con-

clusions. Being rather unassuming ir his manners, people may, àt

times, underestimate his capabilities. He concentratos well on bis

work and at the same time, takes in everything that le going on

around him and that could be of special interest to him. His memory

functions precisely and he can reproduce easily remembered knowledgo

and information.

Emotionally, the mriter is predominantly an introverted type

who can join required extraverted profeasional and social activitios

without much emotional participation. With the ald of his strong

capacity for identification, he blends in with his environment and

avoids attracting spocial attention. While he is emotionally not very

maturo and individualized, he is fairly well equilibrated, composed

and poised. Ho has his feelings and impulses under the stricteat

rational control and he is not likely to be carried away by them. His

Ego-feelings are much stronger than most people who deal with him

would suspect.

He is rather confident of himgelf and inwardly may

over consider himself quite superior to others. Thore is almost

some impertinence in his inner attitude which helps him to assert

himself and make his claims known in various indirect ways. He is

not quite as harmless as he may appear and he knows exactly what he

Is aiter. He proceeds with great carefuinoss and procaution and he

in quito clever in anticipating possible dangers. His self-defensive and

solf-protective mechaniams are strongly developed and be is most

secretiva about his affairs. He is not likely to confide completely in

anybody. Unncticed, he idupa up a strung porsonal reserve preventing

othere from coming too close to him.

He is ego-contered and somewhat

solfish and ho will not lous sight of his personal advantage in whatevas

ho is doing. Ho has doveloped a colorleas and connistent facade which

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

115637-X

= 3-

G-7984

may serve as a cover for various activities he wants to hido. Il he

considors it necessary, he can be quito versatile and be is able to

make quick changes and switches. In a closer relationehip, be can

be rather enigmatic and ho may surprise by unexpected actions and

reactions. He is guided by some ideological syarem (most likely of

collective nature) wich ita fundamental ethical principles which he

folloms meticulously on the nuriace, In reality, he uses a numbor of

camoullaging capacities (in a well-calculated and akillíul manner) for

professional and social purpores. He is emotionally so detached, that

1t la doubtful ll he has any deep-going allegiance. Suggestions in line

with his nell-centered interesta could have a atrong appeal lor him

and possibly could altar his motivationa. At the same limo, he should

be very difficult to approach, especially, an he in somewhar unpredic-

tablo. He la emorionally rather serained, but he evidently has sufficiont

arrongth and erargy at present to support his goneral functioning

adaquarely. Ho possesses a racher strong willpowes and nufficient

pomer of resistance to witharand physical as woll as emotional pressure.

Ho apparently has steeled himsell in the courso of bin lifo, and he can

become quite numb when he wants to. He la a rathor peculiar person

who can to very pursling at times.

Summary:

The writer in a competent and meticulous worker in his pro-

fossional fleld. Babind a harmless front, he is an emotionally complex

and shrowd individual who could vezy woll be involved in some well.

covered-up activities which are not part of his overt lifo. He is not

consistent and reliable and one must be prepared for sudden changes iu

his reaction and action pattern.

Qualification:

This report must be evaluated as qualified information because

the handwriting standards submitted for analysis are not adequate.

SECRET

---

