# 104-10174-10001

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10174-10001

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Chief, Securly Sapon vinten

ATTN:

Deputy Chief, Mierrogation Research Division

CCBB, VIola June

IRD $42431

REF : IND Report $40131 daied 17 October 1980

24 Octcher 1950

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1. As reported in rederenced report, during the

Interrogation and palygraph testing of CCBB, Information was

reported to the effect that one Diana ALEXANDRIA has reportes

to CCBB about her associations with her triend in CIA, allegedly

named Dick DANIELS.

2. Il has béen determined that ALEXANDRIA was in

contact with an spen representative of CIA named DANIELS,

that ALEXANDRIA had discusslons with DANIELS with reference

to June COBB.

3. Mr. Forest La DANIELS, a representative of 0O 1r.

New York, was Interviewed on 20 Cetober in the office of

Mr. Carroll Deianoy, Executive Cilicer/Contacts Division,

by Mr. Charles S. Phalen, Deputy Chief/Fersonnel Security

Division, and the undersigned.

At the outset, Mr. DANIElS requested that Mr. Delaney

remain present turing the interytew. Both Mr. Phalen and the

undersigned agreed to this roquest. Mr. DANIELS was controntes

with the following:

Ho was adulsed that duriny an interview with

June COBB on 11 October, sie had reported

that approximalely a week or ten days before

she had been contacted by Diana ALEXANDRIA,

which resulted in their establishing a social

relationship for luncheons and dinners in the

New York area.

DAS21303

---

## Page 2

14-00000

COBE, June

Page 2

FBE ViJO

REVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORCE

ON

7/3/95 dak

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

for contacting her was to learn ab 'ut ALEXANDRIA'S

former fiance, Yares PELLITTER.

During this sssociation ALEXANDRIA mentioned

to COBB that someone in ClA thain she sees

had mentioned COBB's name to her.

On one

occasion only, during ALEXANDRIA's disserta-

tion, COBB was able to pick up the name,

Mr. DANIELS. COBB stated that ALEXANDRIA

must have slipped because it was the only. time

she had mentioned the name "Mr. DANIELS at

CIA" and thât she was sure ALEY.ANDRIA did

not realize this tack.

-. ...

ALEXANDRIA Inuried COBB that sometime

last winter someone had come to her apartment

to question her. ALEXANDRIA said that she

had earlier been gres!loned by & Frank C'Brien

of the FBI. Then questioned by lir. G'Brien,

she was asked to get in touch with warite LCRENZ

which ALEXANDRLA did and became very much

involved with the LORENZ taily.

ALEXANDRIA continued to inform CO32 that she

was approached by someone from Washington,

• that he was with Cla. Aller this appruach

ALEXANDRIA checked with O'Brien in the FBI

and had him contiim that the man cuntacting

her was really Cin.

Later, she saw hi. DANIELS again. During.

this meeing ALEXANDELA staird that fir. DANIELS

Bald, "You're a'pretty clever girl; you went to the

Bureau to check on I.e." ALEXANDRIA advised

that ke then invited her to Washington, D. C., and

she was eventually questioned.

The detalls about

this questioning was no: revealed by ALEXANDRIA

<B

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CCBB, June

Paço 3

1.I.OK ANDELA advised COBB that she continued

to see DANIELS after this. Later, DANELS

saw her privately in Cinnecticut.

Juring all this association ALCY.ANDRLA stater

o COBB that she had talked to DANIELS abou

COBB and had advised him that she wouid like

to have CCBB come and live with her in New

Jork. DANIELS allegedly told ALEXANDPIA

that this would be a gocd idea. Then later

ALEXANDRIA told COBB, "I'm serious about

your coming to stay with me. I learned today

that you're 'clean' (personally) and besides I

learned that you are clean in the other sense -

from my friend in CIA." ALEXANDRIA further

stated to COBB, "You know, the other day he

told ize to be very careful about what I said to

you because you're walking a very tight line. "

At a later meeting between ALEXANDRIA and

COBB, ALEXANDRLA advised COBB that her

friend in CIA hud told her to be careful what

she sald to June COBB. ALEXANDRIA advised

COBB, "You've got a left-handed compliment

because my friend says that you are more of a

woman than you think because you walk both sides

of the street. "

After this, Subject reported this Information to

her case officer, Mrs. Jenn Pearson, WH/4.

Mrs. Pearson advised Mr. LElark Simmons] 03

C/V/H/4/CI, and Mr. Donald Conners, Security/

JMARC, cl the abuve. Mrs. Hearson consulted

Mr. Bob Travis, DC/Contact/Washingion, as

to whether or not there was anyone in New York

by the name of DANIELS as information had come

to her attention during an interview with another

individual.

---

## Page 4

4-00000

• '

CCRS, June

Page is

Within 43 hours after ALEXANDRIA talked with

COBB about VI. DANIELS, COBB advised that

sbe was contacted by ALZXANDAIA who said,

"You know my triend - I never rentloned his

nate to anyone, not even to you," And COBB

agreed that ALEXANDRLA had not mentioned her

trend's name. ALEXANDHIA went on to say,

"But he is very concerned. Someone called

him irom Washington and said that someore

reported him to his superiors and he asked me

(ALEXANDRIA) to whom I had mentioned his

name. " COBB advised that ALEXANDRIA stated

that the could not belleve that she had mentioned

his name to anyone.

ALEXANDRIA also advised COBB that her friend

In CIA had obtained a position fer her in Tom

Dooley's organization, Medico.

5. The above information and chronalügical ordar of

events would appear to have definitely estaullshed the fact in

ALEXANDRIA's mind that June COBB is in contact with personnel

of ClA. it was definitely confirmed in COBB's mind that the

-undersigned and her case officer,irs. Pearson, mere CiA.

3. Mr. DANIELS advised that he had first met Diana

ALIXANDRIA 17 Iay 1960 as the result of a confidential FBI

lesd, inasmuch as Mr. DAMIeLs was attemptiny to develop

informstion regarding Fidel Castro's Hie.

7. Mr. DANIELS confirmed that he has been in regular

contact with ALEXANDRIA since May 1960. He has asserted

that he advised ALEXANDRIA only that June COBB was "clean"

and this reference to ALEXANDRIA meant oniy, as far as he

was cuncerned, tat COES was physically a clean person and

that she would be a good roumicate for ALEXANDRIA.

---

## Page 5

4-00000

COEB, June

Page 5

8. Mr. DANIELS advised that he did question ALLXANDRIA

as to whether or not she had mentioned his narce i anyone.

?. It, therefore, appears that the events which have

taker place have been corilrmed.

The degree i security implication

cannot be presently determined. In other words. ALEXANDRIA'S

discussions with personalities unknown retarding June CCBB

is a big questica. The pesibilities of ALEXANDRIA's discussions

with Cuban natlonals is most lIkely since she is in contact with

raany of them in the New York area.

10. Mr. DANIELS further advised that ALEXANDRIA

expects to depart New York City for San Diego during the week

of 24 October. 'It appears that she plans to make a permanent

change in her residence. Ir. DANIELS further advised that

he did obtain employment for ALEXANDRIA in Medico but that

she had resigned from this position durlig the week 17 October.

03

Jcc: Mr. [Clark Staumors, C/CI/WH/4/JMARC

BASENSITZED

DEr CSIN 43-43?

:.. :

S0093T

---

