104-10217-10094)o~

SyseessecuseetsrcueetseaeUiSnat

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ':
.

Ov Fs se

°

ctbhi es fa

OF

c?)

aes
nS

t

fo
: LB 01-276 0F0 : cs Cort
je BAL. OEP e3 SECRET

Dane

AREE 10 CS PLE RO

O races O news to enanen

Fig OO

0:0 Q20 000

ytd S ite, 2 ofa: S,t8/og cle)» aonb rnecsloe

SECRET lez02tZ MaY 79 CITE WH/NTARE 7608 CREBECKER ACTING)
PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO PRIORITY MADRID
RYBAT TYPIC AMECRU AMCALL
REFSt A. MADRID 11190 /W oF SZ LF)
B. UFAA~1878 (HOT SENT MADRID)
1. AMECRU-1 TELEPHONED WIFE ANCALL-1 LATE NIGHT

17 MAY AND IN COURSE CONVERSATION SAID:
A. AMPANIC-7 WAS SCHEDULED LEAVE CUSA WITH MICROFILMED

AVRIPE-2 SUT IN LAST MINUTE INTERROGATIOS aupautc-7| UN 1641970
DOC. MICRO. SER.

REFUSED TO TLAK, BECAME BELLIGERENT AND UNCOOPERATI
AND WAS REINCARCERATED.

B. GOC ANXIOUS TALK TO AMECRU-1 PERSONALLY$
CLAIM THEY WISH DISCUSS AMCALL-1 CASE. THEY HAVE
PAID HIS AIR FARE FOR TRAVEL CUBA. AMECRU-1
WILL NOT TRAVEL CUBA UNTIL AMPANIC-7 DELIVERED
MADRID. EXPECTS DELIVERY If ABOUT ONE WEEK.

©. AMECRU-1 HAS ALSO SPECIFIED CONDITIION TO
GOC THAT IF HE TRAVELS CUBA AND THERE IS AGREEMENT
OW AMCALL-1 RAHSOM, AMCALL-1 IS TO RETURY VITH \e Moan O
AMECRU-1. TO SPAIN. Jer- aise

Le


Oisseesuation Ciaszit 30 MESSAGE,

SECRET
hn Filled ta)

acvame coy (tumes (deers

z

CLARIFY To €8 PLE WO

Seated
EAEP 10 C8 LENO -

een —___e |) eens OF) nervy to ten

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 7863 SECRET
D. AMECRU-f WILL ATTEMPT OBTAIN AMCALL-1

RELEASE FOR SAME AMOUNT AS AMPANIC-7 AND AMR IPE-2

BUT EXPECTS A HIGHER DEMAND. HE WILL TRY KEEP

PRICE AS LOW AS POSSIBLE BUT SHOULD HAVE

$182,923 AVAILABLE TO WORK WITH.

: 2. AMECRU-1 ASKED WIFE AMCALL~1 TO RAISE $50,008

AND SEND IT TO HIM FORTHVITH. AMZCRU-1 SAID KE Wout:

RECORTACT AUGUST VANISTENDAEL WHO HAS PROMISED ANOTHER
$58,000.

3. PRIOR DEPARTURE FROM MIAMI FCR MEDICAL TREATMENT,
AMSIGH-2 TOLD BINIARIS THAT MAIN PURPOSE AMECRU-I iNah dete
CUBA IS DISCUSS RELEASE OF 428 PRISONERS. soit

4. FILE: 231-275949, 2a1- 276083, 281- 861363, 19-6-136/55
SECRET .

~ o e)

SECRET
~ + nena

