# 104-10177-10211

## Page 1

1-0000

104-10177-10211

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PRIOR TO FILING

TO: ACTION BRANCH: VEY

1. FAll In Sock. 2.

on back. Detach bask

•M5Я-0024

flap and foreard to RID..:

Is sale no. and titlo shown are

2. Dostroy front cöre. shoet, unless it

propor,

Insert propor silo no

records signiticant action takon of

consents requiring preservation.

and sorward documont 22 BID/M

FROM:

PROPRA PILE NO.

RID/

TO: ALLiADDA

FILL IN BECTION I ON

04/4 RESISTRY

TO

EHLA REG-STRY

ROOM

'но.

DATE

RICRIVIO FORITA

IMiTIALS

COPY DETACHED

15 gal

мій!

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

G.

7

9.

10.

11.

2.

13.

14.

13.

18.

17.

FILE TITLE

RID/FI

REGUEST

DATE MIGRUPILELO

ABSTRACI

211-44.5468

FUMENT NUMBER

JEGA

03030

5100

pr. r.sts

iL'

SECRET

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

Chief, bl

1401r

nate Cease

1.03

NO. 19068146

"ches of Station, NAVE

ABET

FA7/JMZIP/KUCAIZ/uoerational--Text of Telegram Sent by Dr. Erillio ¡URE: Portuondo

CAN TENUIRLO RLILRENCES

to President John F. KENEDY

AUTIONs For your Inforgation

Attached herewith 1s a copy of the text of a cable reportedly sent o

Dr. Emd11o il'Nal Portuondo to President John. KailanY during his recent visit

to Palm Beach, Florida.

2. The information was furnished to Station Jhavs by wOr-?.

3. Al English translation of the text of the caole is also included

barewith.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachments, (Herewith) :

Copy of telegrain

Translation of telegram

Distributions

3 - wii, w/atts. (k/n)

CS FILE CO. -

- 2C1-

- 45667

c? F

"10 Jan 62.

DISFATCH STHBRI: ARE

450A-3030

HEADUUARTERS FILE POSABE

байкал: ст

213R

---

## Page 3

230::

CarlOS BLANCO NE

subunOr: Eelegras to gresidont Kessor.

Forwarded boronita 1s a copy of the aight lotter out sent by or.

In1l1o 1.23 fortuodo to Prosident isaaDY.

In tols telegren Ex. Munez Portuondo gasses Judgient on the -

280:0I31 3

declarations of Ambassador Stevenson and President/rita regard to the

Cuban situation and the attitude alca should ba follosed.

V/SR

---

## Page 4

instant bag zen yes

:2÷234+3

scarbie

305 3A

Kerredy

ІЗдіть

ós the waited states

A SECRET

cut seach, Floalda

Mie desharetiors of ardessador Sucresses upen his return fros à1s

s1s1à to lotta swerios, raen for die first tira ke airsdea the nations

o jutin series into b1g-ard shall gorars, are alrecio croducing

eradicial results. The President of irgentla, in. racipizi, declared

II Forciulu, 30ia11, tast todayle 15 Indispensable so count on the

ravorzale vote of brasil and estco is tha CiS so that an egree ent

res be executory, bocuse they en the netlons nich have the longest

-population. Thes thosts contractots the chorter of tre Organization

of the deriosa states idich racosaizes end suarantess the squality?

of 2il Leaber Mations, end. 1s cliverent Iro= tca attitude adonted dy

argentine ln the united lations were, lithout arsuent, it has accepted

resoluttons costed by the icro alecto aloo tita pobulationg minericalls

intor to the zatin sartoes calossy le dresto or President 230.bigt

Is Mustarcally and politically unaccentzble secause la would cane the

cose shet Guana should de zore jaspected than domay, Sensari, Penale,

eto. Saceuss de letts dave Loss poplation.

se regulation oi

Inte sational los and the treatses sust be coplied with by larga and

shen posers eccenir, or the coala sould tum into creos. In ves orleons

Present poprzi deciared they sore coula be no intervantion in cuba

confesses thatine zever told the caben

Case into a sassinite off

tee Sores

caton and 201 0

Las got beau consulted, cog can sore consulted wiene

ramy, uncalled

Terencede

1n the history of the desisphera, has been established

I rsist that

inhabitcass tear

Sa=11 end canted seroim togetain, should dot rita toa

V/BR

---

## Page 5

t

deafories

to latin

or shouli cot untlaterelly, to sure cuba tos driercasional coumunts-

ho faciDeal thesis diet a satelilte nation 1a sno jesssororo is cocéptable,

19 contrari to se dearter of the belted settos, 2a 210 arats, and the a

Declara:1oas of Caracas, sea iose, Santlago da the conroe Doosrira.

In tie dubsa bese there 15 10 dilessa: elther the called stateo choswith

jastro dy force, or dostro will destroy due linited sistes.

Respectfully yours,

Dre anilio some Coatiendo

Council

SECRET

---

## Page 6

Hos ustes

intter

azorablo Jalido jerineis

Presiona of the lased Statos.

Falm B03ch.- ÷19.-

Las deslaracionos del sebajador Stevenzos a ju regreso do su visita

A la hEÚrios LatLe di quo por vai pricora dividió a los sacados do la AmórIca Lasi

ra es grandes y paquezas potencias ya están produciendo perjuaterales efectos pinco

El prosidante do la AnsentIna Prondizi ha deciarado en fonolie nes que hoy es in

asoconsable costan con el voto favorasza da fracil y Maxico en yost para que punde

ser ajecutivo un acuerdo porque son las que tienan asyor población punto Esta tesis

contradico la Carla de la Organización de Estados Asericinos qua neconoco y garantiza

la 1guildad de tados los istados Meabros y es diferente a la saultud adoptada por .

Argantina en Nastones lidas donde ha auntado sin discutir resaiaciones adoptadas por

el bloqua arranstatico con poblacionos nusericanante inforsores 1 1os Estados la:inna-

Iaricasos punto La cesta del Presidente Pronal es Inaceptable

dica y politicaron

te porque se caría el caso de que Ghana dobe ser sás respet

igua

ruegn, DinamarcH;

Panaá etc, por tener estos menos población punto las reclaa del cerucho intornacional y

Los tratados tener que cumplirios las grandes y las pequenas potencias por Loual o la

238n

tierra sa converte po en caos punto in llan Orleana el procida londial declaro

que no se podía Intervenir en Cuba porqua al mieblo cubano sea dido voluntarlamento

al sotiero comies guo elane punto. 33 un hecho clerto que el o adel Castro

La corfesado publicarete que janía dijo al pueblo cubano que sa piconvertir a Cubr

en un sascite ech uen coviétien y la cola tola pinto alsalo Citeno no ha

en la sistorla do i

ca punto Insisco en que si la poblacion en una acion datura!

mete sudos cero o sunto con lo abueno que todo puntos deso

actuar con la mys sico 10s datados Latinoamericanos que astén setos a acorne

ato o unlasamlanta ara salvai a sisi del conisso Incendient aco la tagis

de reaperble la astado sucálide an icórica es consmintara la carea do

VIBR

---

## Page 7

14-00000

sactores Uniero, tratalo do 1o, Deslamiciones do Caracas, Son Josee Suactaro y

Dactitns de sonroe parto in ol caso do Cubi no hay dilusa o istados-liados acaba

con Castro por la fuerza o assiro destruirá istados linidos respotuosasmte

- Dr.

2-1210 Júlez Porruonto

ex residento Consojo seguridad laciones tridas.

SECRET

116.

desensilizil

---

