# 104-10146-10049

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10146-10049

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992*

UNCLASSIFIEN

ONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

L USE GUILY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Offer of Information (Delores

EXTENSION

FROM:

William H. Standiford)o3

Acting Chief, SSD/OS

4E - 27

Hdqs.

1250

TO: (Oficer designation, room number, and

DATE

building)

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OLC/HSCA

ATTN: S. Breckinridge

6D-5317 Hdgs.

Hope)

NO.

DATE

21 DEC 1978

COMMENTS (Numbai each comment lo sham from whom

to whom. Drow a line across column after each comment.)

2.

3.

7.

8.

!?'a

0.

1.+9u.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

2 1 DEC 1978

1 20 076.3534

MEMORANDUM FOR: Legislative Counsel, House Select Committee .

on

Assassinations

ATTENTION:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

William H. Standiford

Acting Chief, Security Support Division

Office of Security

Offer of Information (U)

1.

The attached Incident Report pertains to a call

received by the Security Duty Office in which Mrs. Delores Hope

volunteered information concerning the John F. Kennedy

assassination.

Office of Security records are negative

in the name of Subject. (U)

2.

This report is provided for your information and

for forwarding to the necessary congressional component.

(U)

William

Attachment

2/pd..

---

## Page 3

9000

I......?

44323

-WIDENT REPORT

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 199?

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROSSAIN

FROM: .

ME LUQUERTERS SECURITY ARMICH

DATE 1 Bacembar 1272

015+ Ficiers

TIME

NAME

Delores hoge

GRADE

3182 Bast Irohiz St.

Sen Angelo, TX

INCIDENT Offer Of Information (U)_ TInE_

0754 Hrs.

__OFFICE

OScO

_PLACE

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:

• (U) Agency Operator transierced & call fron SUBJECT who stated

that she has information concerning the John F. kennedy assassination.

The infornation, which she would not divulge, was available if the hgene;

is willing to "pay" for it.

(U) SUBECT stated that she wanted to speak to en Agency repre-

sentative and would not reveal enything over the telepbone.

(U) SUBJECT was told that a report of her call woulá be rude

and forwerded to the appropriate office where a decision would ba nade as

to the merit of her offer.

---

