# 104-10186-10084

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10084,

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY .

18 UNC ReNA 101 D0A.TAA, IDe trasemiadna

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEX

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT Armando TORRES Mesones

DATE DISTR

(allas "El Frances").

CSCI-316/00515-65

8 February 1965

NO. PAGES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

• Do Nol Reproduce

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/00718-64

9 September 1964

DATE Of

INFO.

1964

MACE & Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

IH13 IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE CRADINOS ARE DEPIMIIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCEIA former Cuban IS officer who servei with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

4

2

It is requested, that the addressees take no action on any of

individuals mentioned in the

personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Upon further questioning of source, he revealed that the full

of Armando, subject of the above referenced report, is Armando

TORRES Mesones,

He is the curriculum administra-

tive officer in the Departamento Escuelas Especiales (Department of

Special Schools - EE), responsible for guerrilla warfare training,

in the Dirercion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI).

Operations officers from the Departamento

de Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation Department -IN) of the

DGI send TORRES a statement as to what an individual agent, or

groups of agents, is expected to do upon returning to his native

country and TORRES arranges a training schedule which will prepare

each individual for. his assignment; he decides how many hours of

instruction each trainee will have

and in what subjects.

In addition,

he arranges the schedules of the instructors in the various schools

and handles the overall administration for them.

TORRES does not

teach courses himself although he ranks as the chief instructor.

works particularly close with the Venezuelan desk officers and has

relatively less to do with other LN Department operations officers.1

Headquarters Conment

1. Aside from the information forwarded

with the above referenced

report, this Agency has no adcitional identifiable information

on TORRES.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

DIA

I ARMY

I NAVY

I AIR

INSA

REP

CINCLANT

CINCSO # •

I&NS

(Nosa: frold distribution indicated by "=")

INFORMATION REPORT

WH/SALEOBILHALER

I CI/LLA

AH/SA MOR:

HE/MADR

2

CI/REA

20-1

EXAX

I OCR

on actuares

FBI 2

INFORMATION RERORTA

IELCANAVEL

LI- 2313

JEBRITIS

YO PROJECT (AJMUG

CSCI-316/00515-65

WH1/SA/CI

SIL/HAVE

L1l

TOTALS

WHI/SA 8

1056

RID/AY

(1), AE 1 (2), CI 1, RID 1

11A1907

COOFDINATINOLPELEA

BLS:

DD

CI/R$7

S

---

