# 104-10151-10068

## Page 1

104-10151-10068

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

SU"JECT:

relay in sending the first cable about

OSWALD

Much has been written about the de?

Station) ins ending the first cable reques

name Lee OSWALD. It was dis cussed in Dav

case of laziness on the part of the So

in my view was unjust and

didn't know wat he was talking ab

Normally,

the Spanish

conversation would have been

2nd of October.

Ta. the Metie

the Mexico

illips book as a

officer (which

that Dave

the I Octo

morning

in the station before the 7th since.

that time,

taken out of the camera every

the film stayed in the camera until a full

roil was completed wich might take three or four days.

A name trace could have been reques ted on the bas is

of the name alone but that wasn't the

Station.

Win Scott ran that

He wanted the photographic

telephone coverage. sometimes ther

age tied in with the

licers e number.

U.S.-automobile

als o part

justifying a project by the num

nunbers game" of

reports

produced:

ches, cables or

SECRET

0000151

22596

0003002

PAGE

COPY NO.

218

- •319

---

## Page 2

SECRET

SECRET

2 May 1977

SUBJECT:

Review of Mexico City

at the Warrenton Rec

Files

enter

1.

On 2 May 197'

arid Annie, Goodpasture

visited the Warrente

City files in seard

of ad

er to revier old Mexico

aphs of the

"unidentified man".

We s

photographs.

sate any such

It appears

photographs may have

been destroyed in a purge of

Bity Station files and

that the folders for the des

material were re-used to

forward more recent photographic material to Headquarters

for retention. Following are the Job numbers of boxes reviewed

and pertinent notations re re-use of the old folders:

Job #70-236 Box 1 of 3

LILYRIC. Photos

1 February - 1 March 1968

(Filed in re-used folder,

LILYRIC 1 Aug. 1966 to 31 Aug 66)

LICALLA Negatives

In white letter-sized

envelopes - five

packages C-1873 - 2031

1 March - 1 April 1968

Back folder - re-used LILYRIC

folder 1 Sept 66 - 31 Oct 66

Front folder re-used LILYRIC

folder 2 Dec 63 - 28 Feb 64

1 April - 2 May 1968

Back folder re-used &

folder 2 Mar 64 *

Front folder re-used

folder 1 Nov thru 15 Dec

SHIBITED

0000152

JFK # 056

Copy 20f7

2

Continued

SECRET

SECRET

22597

0003003

219 0319

PAGE

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 3

14-000000)

- 2

3 May - 3 June 1968

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder

16 Dec 1966 thru Jan 1967

Front flap re-used LILYRIC folder

1 July 68 - 31 July 1968

back flap

7 May 64 - 27 July 64

Front flap

16 May 61 - 16

• 2 Jay read fader PRONETE

Job. #70-236 Box 2 of 3

LILYRIC Photos

Back flap 3 Apr 67 - 2 May 67

filed in re-used folder LIMITED

Front flap clean

PROHIBITED

0000153

Continued

SEGNET

2

0003004

PAGE

220

0, 319

COPY' NO.

---

## Page 4

-3

1 June - 3 July 1967

REPRODUCTION

July - Aug 64

Front flap clean

1 Aug 67 - 4 Sept 67

Clean folder

4 Sept - 2 October 1967

Clean folder

2n 3 ON HIDUSTON PROMBIES

Clean folder

1 Nov - 22 Dec .67

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder

IL Apr 60 - 18 May 66

Front flap re-used incoming cable

chrono folder 1-31 Jan 65.

9 Jan - 31 Jan 68

Front flap re-used LILYRIC folder

1 July thru 31 July 1966

Back flap - clean

Job #70-236 Box 3

2 Jan - 27 Feb 1967

A REPRODUCTION

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder

DOPRORUBITED

5 Nov 62 - 31 Jan 63

6000154

SECHET

Continued

3

C003005

221₽ 319

PAGE

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 5

(

• 4-

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Dee 66 - 15 Pen 67

1 Mar - 28 April 1967

Back flap re-used mAD CON

1 Feb - 29 Jung 05)

folder

* 2 May 67 - 30 June 67

Back flap re-used

LILYRIC folder

23 July 63 (Y-1257) to

30 Nov 63 (Y-1308)

3 July - 30

Back flap re-ased LICALLA folder

30 Nov 63 (C-1414)

Front flap LICALLA re-used folder

1 June thru 30 June 1967

1 Sept - 27 Oct 1967

Back flap clean

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Aug - 31 Aug 1967

6 Nov - 29 Dec 1967

Back flap clean

1 July - 31 July 190k

3 Jan - 28 Feb 1968

1 July thru 31 August 1966

Back flap Czech photos re-used folder

Sept - Nov 64

SEGMET

0800155

Continued

0003006

PAGE

22203

COPY

NO.

319

---

## Page 6

5 -

1 March thru 29 April 1968

Front flap re-used LICALLA (C)

28 Nov 61 to 10 Feb 62

Back flap re-used LICALLA f

1 Apr to 1 July 1966

2 May thru 19 APEPRODUCTION

2 Sept 61 - 23 Mar 19520

1 A B ILL

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Jan thru 31 Mar 1966

N.B. There was no coverage from 19.

15 July thru 30 August agoge

PROBATES

Front flap re-usee datAbA felder

23 Nov to 2g

Job #72-626/36

File # 50-8-21

Box #5

Contained nothing prior to 1967. Looking for 1963.

Job #70-209

Box #3 (Boxes 182 at Has)

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box $4

Nothing pertinent to our search,

Box #5

Nothing pertinent

Box #6

REPRODUCTION

Nothing pertinent to upsHBITED

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #8

Nothing pertinent to our search

SECHET

C000156

Continued

5

0003007

PAGE

COPY NO.

223

of

---

## Page 7

- 6

Box #9

Nothing pertinent to our search,

Box #10

Nothing pertinent t

Box #11

Nothing pertieREPRODUCTION

Box #12

Nothing pertinent to

PRORBITED

our search.

Job #73-506

File # 50-6-74/3

Box #1

LILYRIC

1 - 30 June 1970

CROUCTION PRONBITED

LICALLA

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

June

July

& Aug

Sept & Oct

"Nov

Dec

70

70

Nov & Dec

70

70

70

70

70

70

Dispatch HMT 11,368

Photos were filed in

subject 201 folders),

"p" files were

destroyed.

Ref (to previous

C000157

6

SECRET

0003008

224

PAGE

COPY

NO.

of

319

---

## Page 8

SIGNET/SENSITIVE

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and fuban Embassies (1963)

1. Unilateral Coverage:

From the time

the arrival of fir. Win

REPRODUCTION

developed a support apparatus to

PROMIBITED

opened in April 1947/ until

of. Station in 1955, the Station had

exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in

Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTICK.

Consisted of multiline

phone taps, three photographic sites, a mobite

lance. team and a

mail intercept operation.

Telephone taps (LIFE!

Placed by an employee. of the TocaD

(telephone company who

Ted by a Station case officer. The number

of lines tapped wa

antited only by the availability of a listening post

nearby and the availability of langauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,

Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-

American recruited agents.

Three photographic sites were hand

: assisted by technicians on TDY from

on the best types of cameras pu

operations had sub-crypts

a Station case officer•

who advised the Station

ant devices. These

ICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC

and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixe

bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

0000158

E2, IMPDET

CL BY 004645

7

22598

0003009

PAGE

2250г

COPY

NO.

319

---

## Page 9

( SECRET SENSITIVE

Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned

street on the southeast corner of that black

LIMITED was the first photo base

basis in the early stages

D

TU DIU COI

(See attached diagram).

strictly on an experimental

tion received word thai ad

> was closed when the Sta-

notogr

Def the "unidentified man" was

being released by the barren gassion. LILYRIC was an alternate photo-

graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building

on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site but

he middle of

the block south. It had a planted view of the

jate of the Soviet

Embassy. LICALLA, the third photograph

was located in one of a

row of four houses on the south

Oathe Soviet Embassy compound.

This site overlooked the.

garden of the Soviet Embassy compound. The

purpose of this operat

forswas to get good identification photographs of

Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-

cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother

and Mexican father (deceased). This agent

egted the film from

the

LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three

The film was then de-

veloped and printed intor

Etips.

LICALLA film was

originally processed in the Stat

bUll early 1959, due to the resis.

ation of a technician, this flim Tike that of LIMITED and LILYRIC wa

processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

0000159

2

SECRET/SENSITIVE

8

C003010

PAGE

COPY NO.

226

319

of

....... .......

......./C

".-.—

---

## Page 10

SUBREY SOSITE

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.

could be activated by REPRODilen as six recruited agents

interest left the gate of telebr

Embassy.

These agents were aware of

the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for

identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a unilateral m

LIBIGHT, which

was handled by an American case

Mexican agent, who had a semiofficial

from a subagent employed by the

Nex

cept operation,

cer.

A recruited

tus?

obtained selected letters

postal system.

2. Liaison Coverage:

Liaison cover

unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the Mexican services at that time. The Mexican Direction

of Federal Security (DFS), with which we conducted liaison, was a hip-

pocket group run out of the Mexican Mini

( Government. This-Ministry

was principally occupied with

Ligations and control of

foreigners. Their agents

and corrupt. LA Station

officer trained a number of the run

e tracing and travel controT. In

i 1958, at the instigation of a

Mexican official, a joint telephone tap

operation came into existence. The operation, which became known as )

0000160

3

SCGHC1/S8S1100

9

0003011

PAGE

СОРУ NO.

227

oe 319

---

## Page 11

( SECRET SENSITI

LIENVOY, was run by a Mexican officer. The listening post had 30 lines

connected at one time. The transcription

pal was staffed by Mexican >

Army officers. In 1961, because

i тупая

ragement by the Mexican prin-,

cipals, the Station chio Ea

became

project case officer. A

Station officer assisted Vin

Vite supervision of the listening

post, and in picking up the

tradscripts and the tapes. There was alsa

an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald Coverage:

In mid-1962, the Mexican officer in charge of LIENVOY (the

Joint tap operation) asked the American officer at the Leklay listening:

post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban and

satellite Em-

bassies in anticipation of possible coverage

he station immediately

disconnected all of the unilateral

one taps on these Embassies so ;

that they would not be disca

When the Mexicans hooked up their

taps. The Mexicans so

eatter connected five Cuban lines, five

Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav

line.

At the listening post, a live

5 the tro polish in

conversations of interest.

And short sumaries of

instaded in a daily resume

for the Chief of Stationy

Eras completely recorded,

full transcripts were typed her patesed ta the station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

0000161

4

SECRET SENSITIVE

10

0003012

PAGE

COPY NO.

228

319

of

---

## Page 12

SECRET /SENSITIVE

for translation and typing. Mr.

usually ran about a

As soon as the sain lure versations, the translations

self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the

Station started screening all photographs. However, here

aga

there

was a backlog because the photographs were picked up

th

ree

a weak

but those picked up were usually for dates a

fe

before since the

technician who was processing the film,

of

night-time basis.

Further, photographs were not made

until a complete roll of

film was used. Later this l

and the operator cleared the camera

at the end of each day re!

ess of amount of unused film remaining.

The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to

photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with

foreign license plates. Human

error die

aradur but

generally the agents

were conscientious.

The Cub

erage had more sophisticated

equipment using a pul

ficulties.

Oswald came to

A ROHIBITED

atly developed mechanical dif-

attention of the listening post operators

from a tap of the Soviet line.. It was picked up and taken

to Mr. Boris

6000

0000162

5

SECRET SENSITIVE

11

0003013

PAGE

COPY NO.

229

of 319

---

## Page 13

• SECRET SENSITIES

Tarasoff for translation because the

There was sone delay because Staft

photographs with the type

either Spanish or Englisf

these two languages and becauge i

for operational leads.

was

trying to speak in Russian.

waited to compare the

Sanscripts were made in

if of Station could read only

REPRODUCTION PROHBIED

0000163

6

SECRET SENSITIVE

12

0003014

PAGE

COPY NO.

230

o319

---

## Page 14

SECRET

ISEGRET.

10 Feb 77

Source:

rotes made by A. Guodpasture

for John Leader, IG Staff

Suoject:

Background on lexico Statiamo

(Coverage of Soviet ard

Assets

1. Unilateral coverage.

SHEU

xico Station was opened in

april 1947 (by Bill Doyle) until

of Win Scott as COS in 1955, Charles

Anderson III (still in LA/HQ) had developed a support apparatus to'

exploit leads fron the Soviet Fbassy. This umbrella type project (LIFEAT)

consisted of multi line phone taps, three photo sites, a mobile surveillance

tean and a nail intercept operation.

Ro: Fhore taps were placed by an'emaloyee of the telephone company

Who was hardled by David HILSTY (pseudo). The nunber of lines

tapped was Liked ly availabilty of a listentng post nearer

(since the taps were not made in the nai

Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Czech,

these agents (mostl

(which

Scribers. Generally

•Mexican Arerican) were related

that tine felt was good security in that

if they faired about shop; they would talk to each other.)

b. Three photo sites were handled by Arderson with the help

of Harry kahoney (retired 1l

in Chicago) and IDY TSD

devices. Peter

carera, film, and concealment

SEE ON SPAT CURATED, KIRIO

fixed site bang opposite across

the street fron the front gate of the Soviet Fribassy which had

both a venicle and foot entrance. The Soviet gate was on the

Horthlest corner.of their compound and LNITED was diagonally

across a double barrelled street on the Southea

ISZCRET.

225.99.

L00164

JFK-056

Copy2of.7

10739 0s oC0*645

PAGE

23.1 = 319

COPY NO.

C003025 S

SECRET

A-3

13

---

## Page 15

2-

(SEGIET

that block. LIMITID vas the first base aid it oreraied strictly on an

e: erinental basis in the esrly stages. I think the lexi Station bought

one storey

this property. (a/Spanish Colorial sto

through LIMOUSIE (check to

be sure). Later this houjed

This base was closed when

the Station got word the

man" was being released to the

puolic by the larren Coanission UT

Thoto operators vere moved to another apt

nearby. The property sas sold (under an operational agreement with LIMOUSIVE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment blding to be built

on this site). LILYRIC was planned as an alternate photo base to LINITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on the sare side of the street

as LIITED but in the middle of the block South. It had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Inbassy. The agents in LIATED and LILYRIC (both

lexican fazilies) as far as we knew, were not acquainted with each other.

LITYRIC was a rented apartuent.. LICALIA, the third phobô

was located

In one of a row of four houses on the Sout s

the Soviet Erbassy compowad

which the Mexico Station purchased a

Trout 1958 (ckeck date), also using

IMOUSINE as the purchas

abris slue overlanded the back gardens as

the Soviet Enbassy comp!

The purpose of this operation vas to get good

Identification photographs of the Soviet personnel (uso at that time were largely

unidentified in Mexico Station records). The three photo sites were handled by

Remon Alvarez (Mexican citizen of U.S. nother who taught elerentary level at

MAn frOM LINTED

developed and printed the

¿as for LICALLA film to ie.

PROHIBITED

husband, Carlos (lexican doctor)

sact print strips. The master plan

tuit

cessed inside, ISD man from 1957 to 1959 (Harper

(Holt - resigned) could not handle the volume and as the unprocessed filn began

to accumulate, the inside Co (i'ahoney) became disgusted and took the file out

for Baron'S brather-in-law to process (probably early 1959). Thus Paron becare

the handler for all three photo bases.

A sensitive staff D nonitoring operation

$ 0009

65÷

6003016

PAGE

232: 3184

COPY NO.

---

## Page 16

..-3 =

SECRET,

was run out of

another one of these houses (crypt for the four houses tas

LIUSTjI, ete). This was ha:dled by Glen HIDDEN (outside ISD officeri ana

l'aconey using HU TDY teans for monitoring. This opsration vas also segarate

fron LICALIA.

The two houses in betusen were

ented to unsistecting tenants.

Loped by Anderson and later placed

tean consisted of & half

nrae to foir late model cars ana a

panel truck (thich could be used on stake_outs for photo coverase).

The plan was to activate this group by radio (fron LIMINED BASE)

Soviet

ween someose of interest left the/Embassy gate and stay with then

until they nade their neetings.. These agents knew about the IBITED

BASE keause they had IDlIaD photos for identification purposes..

This worked fairly well until about the niddle of 1958.

(check date)

When one of the surveillance agents got too close

target and

was arrested by the Mexican transit polade

i stured over to the

Mexican Secret Service.

Bles

the Station could arrange through

a cleared attorney

bal out (Judd hustin of the Goodrich,

Little and Riguel rira), the agent: had identified Sancho (iro was

evacuated across the border at Nogales by Bob Shaw) and the inside

phone number of Mahoney (who was subsequently replaced by Louis

Fuckett). As a result of this flap, the LIAI project was broken

up into several others.

new crypts.

the unilateral phone

REPRODUCTiOn not charged out era given

laggard replaced Anderson in handling

solaced lahoney and handled the

and the photo bases through Reton.

d. LIBIGHT was the crypt used for a unilateral (originally) mail

intercept handled by Charlie inderson III, The agent (dexican) had

a semi official status and arranged to obtain selected letters fron

0003017

PAGE

233

COPY

NO.

319

15

---

## Page 17

- - HERET.

a sub-agent in the vostal systen (I think at the äirport). llis case

¿lEonso Spera,

officers

were later/Puckett, Rovert Feldaann, and Alan White.

2. LIaison coverage

was unaliable aid insecure as characterised by the nature

of the lexican services at that time.

an DES (Direction of Federal

Security) with which ve dealt

group ten out af the finistry

of its tire on control of

their agents sere vicious, venal,

nelberg established contact with one of them rigi

Levine De LeOn (later LIFIRE grOup) in about 1950 or 51. He gave them some

training (a group of about five surveillance types) in travel control working

the airsort as vell as file searches of names fron DES Hatrs

where the files

were poorly organized and often inaccurate.. Now and

some useful

infornation was developed but it could not be

replaced by Foil Foettinger. (resigned

Hazlitt, ard Rooert Feldma

upon.

Helberg was

gained in Mexico), rahoney, Thonas

thu Ether)

During 1958,

"'Scott net socially sone of the chronies of the

Mexican President elect, Adolfo Lopez lateos. During this period, the U,s.

Arbassador Robert C. Hill (reflecting the policy oi then See State J.F. Dulles)

was energetic in organizing groups to "fight cormnisn". One of these seeds

grew into a proposal figuel Aleman (jr. son of former lexi President), acting

distressing years of a shakedown.

deceit and corruption. LIELEGAT also

=anipulated control over the principal agent of LIBIGHT rail intercept. The

first case officer was Alfonso Spera inside with Turner Snith (retired) outside

and John

(TSD training officer for surveillance and head of the listening

post wicre thirty telerhone lines would connecú as well as a transcriction roos

0003018

234

PAGE

COPY NO.

of

• 319/6

---

## Page 18

SECHET.

starfed ij in.ican aIry ofricers.) Initially the suation tried to set every

derand made ly the l'exicans. both Snith and John hed larguage difficulties and

personal problens associated with being outside

fise

station so that the kexicans

were virtually uncontrollaile, spendi

equipment at enorious cost

prostion as transert REPROMICTIOL

they pleased, squirrelling avay

Do sai eat no round here P

part of the bargain in the)

we wanted. Spera was replaced

sane pincer noverant of having Scott

approve a request by LIELEGAlT that Brady hed turned down by the son, LlErvOX-2.

Finally when the cost became exhorbitant and there was little to show for it,

the project was revampad. Suith and John returned to the U.S. and were replaced

by a TSD officer, Charles Flick, who was out inside the listening post to naintain

Brad was reassigned to other duties rendirg grenster.

the equipuent./ Scott too, over the project as case officer

meet

§ with ITELEGANT.

He designated Ann Goodpasture to meet dailing withe

routine supervision

at the 11atening post, sick up transe?

capes. Goodpasture had no

dealingswith the Mexicans excep

Scatt vas ill or out of town. Generally,

all decisions were made by?

This was about late 1961.

3.. By nenory is a little vague about the origins of the Cuban Fabassy but I

think the staff first developed fron a pro-Castro group celebrating on New

Years eve 1959. As I recall, it was a rakeshift arrangement of volunteers

thrnugh most of 1960 and 61 with Ton Hazlitt producirg volurinous reports ci

their acti:ities and recruitirg agents right

Mexico City.

La Personiel aSSiERE PRODUCTION

PRU AnD Elo Is who was in liedie daring

reve gro:ped persons torether chronologically with areas of their assignaent

as the

covering fron 1950 to 1969 so that soods names pop up, one can tell wat

period they were in Mexico and

their assignments, at the sine.

SECRET,

0003013

PAGE

COPY

NO.

235 or 319

7

---

## Page 19

- s

SECRETI.

8/54-6/59

COs

DCOS

Winston M. Scott (deceased)

7/56 - 7/58

Alfonso Rodriguez (retired)

10/53 - 12/62 Warren Dean (retired)

•6/63 - 9/65

Alan White (retired)-

10/65 - 1969 Stanley Wetson (retired in lexico) :

COVERI ACTION

Prior to 1954 Howard Kunt (retired)

12/54 - 7/53 Williard Hill (resigned)

12/55 - 9/61

Stannard Short (reti

Chief

9/61

8/62 - 9/64

2/64 - 6/65

/64 - 11/66 Harold Dalghre DirenE

lanes Flamery

10/65 - 1967 • Stanley Watsonlo/(retired)

66

168-

Don Heath

65 - 71. Joseph SmithC (retired in Mexico)

CUBA OPERATIONS

56 - 4/62

Tronas Hazlitt Chief

PROMBITED

4/63 - 4/65 Bob Shaw Chief -

9/63 - 7/65

Ray Swider

10/63 - 5/65 Lorna Mackay

8/66 - 6/65 David Phillig

9/65 - 10/68 Joseph Piccol

10/55. - 12/67 Peysy Maggara

SOVIET TARGET

6/57 - 10/59 Louise Jyon (retesad}

6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Machine (os)

9/59- 8/65 Herbert Kanell Chief-

9/59 - 3/65 Earbara Lianell -

5/64 - 7/65. Willian Bright

• 4/05 - 11/67 Cynthia Hausmann

6/05 - 7/67 Alice Pittinger

7/65 - 4/69 Paul Dillon Chief

SOVIET IPANSCRIDIPS

REPRODUCTIUN® Co

6/56 - 8/53

6/58 - 6/53

6/63 - 70

George Misko -

Boris Tarasoif (retired in Mexico) -

0$69

0003020

PAGE

СОРУ NO.

236

of

31915

---

## Page 20

SUPPORT ASSETS

lilateral phono teps

Charles Anderson III Chief

15 - 4/60

Pegey laggord Asst

- 1/62

Frank Estancona Chiof

- 10/64 Thonas Keenan -

4 - 12/67 ltichael Farmer

49-71

PROHIBITED

lateral photo

19 - 4/64

19 - 6/62

Cubans

Robert Zambernardi (resigned k'exico)

Richard Spathar TSD (retired)

Iateral) photo Soviets

i4 - 4/59

Harry I. Mahoney

56 - 68

(retired Chicago)

i7 - 8/64

A. Goodpasture (alternate. 50 -

and internal routing)

8 - 6/63

Louis D. Puckett (retired)

- 10/61, Thomas Keenan -Robert

5 -

Willian Bright

RAPROSZETION PROMIS

l in Mexico)

Cubana gil resting .

ison phone

taps

9

~ 1969

Winston Scott (deceased)

9

1.960

Alfonso Spera

(retired)

- 1960

Turner Smith (outside, now retired)

9

- 1950

John'

0-

1961

John brady (retired)

2 - 1968

A. Godpasture

1 - 1971 Charles Flick (outside

ison - surveillance

REP KODUG TION

9 - 19c1 Thonas Hazlitt

52 - 9/67 Robert Feldnann

Gutside unit

3 - 12/63

3-4/51

Glen Hidden (retired) -

Joseph i:. Resigno (os) Unit bloun and closed durn

0900179

0003021

237

PAGE

COPY NO.

1. 031914

---

## Page 21

?--

SECRET

Abolit nid 1962 (check date) Litivoy outside lexi ropt asked)

for the telephone nunvers of the Soviet,

and Satellite Esbassies.

With tris forewarning, LIFEAT. (uni)

has disconnected, However

as I recall, the Mexicans con

§ Soviet lines, 3 Czech,

2 Polish, and 1 Yugoslav It

e listening post had a live

monitor lio rede short suraries

nterestirg conversations for & daily

resume which has received each day arourd & a.1. (passed by flick to Coodcasture

to get to Scott before 9.a.I.) Later (when the reel was completely recorded)

full transcripts were typed ard passed to the station in the same way, however,

there was usually a time lag of a day or so.: Those transcripts which had

Russian or another language besides Spanish or English vent out of the listening

post the day after the transcript (of other conversations.

reel) was

typed. These reels were taken to another locati

were translated

and typed. In the case of the Russian t

long

Boris Tarasoff usually ran

• T7

about & week behind the date el

Leversation because of the volune of

Russian conversations ang

Lenbers of the Soviet Exbassy. During this

period: (fall of 1963) the reels were probably being brought into the station

and carried to Boris by one of the people fron the Soviet Section or they say

have been carried to hin by Flick but I think I brought the reel in and gave

it to Ferbert Kanell) to take to Boris. Herbert Hanell and his wife Baroara

candled all of the processi:g of Soviet transcri

sts. ly job involved screening

the photographs as soon as we learned

calling hinself Oswalà was

crobably an American. However,

photos were ricked up threg

BAPO

as a backlag because the

ones picked up were usually

for dates a few days preflously bee

merlie doctor proceised the filu on a

night tige basis. Frotographs were nade usually until one roll vas used but

later we got it cranged to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the

operators, cleared the carera each day wether there was enguliarasts a full

roll of filn exposed. Instructions' vere to cover office hours, photograch each

SECRET

0003022

238

PAGE

COPY NO.

319

of

-20

---

## Page 22

_ 4- SECRET

new Soviet and farily, all foreigners and foreign licence glates. Funan

error did occur but generally the agents were

conscientious.

The Cuoan

embassy coverage had more sophisticated

(a pulse cavera) but it

frequently develored nechanical dif

Job Zarbarnerdi and Scathar

(I thiak) handled this film

Lorna lackay screeked

the film inside the statio

I am certain that the

Oswald call came to our attention fron the

Soviet line.. It was picked u; and taken to Boris for a translation because

the caller was trying to speak Russian. Any delay was caused by waiting to

corpare the photographs with the typed transcript.

There were no copies of

trenscricts every made in languages other than Spanish or

glish because Win

Scott could read oly those two languages

ard he

transcripts for operational leads he vant

REPRODICTON PROTEY

screened the

DEPRODU

PROMIBITED

0003023

PAGE

COPY NO.

239

of

319

---

## Page 23

SEGRET,

REPRODUCTION

CHIBITED

REPRODUCTION PROMENED

Pliate Basee

(4) 5

PRODUCTION

PROMITED

• SECRET

0000+73

0003024

PAGE

COPY

NO.

2240 0g 3122

---

## Page 24

{7009

TUSSDAY 1th OCTOBER 1963

10g Fila 141

lizatnar 1/100

Coyerage: 900 to 1900

20 Laxp

Camera Setting 3.5-2.5'

1 1251 2URY platican con KAZ en el jardin

20 D ES DE DO SE DE NI DO De De 80 18 De 80 De

se:0.0844684585683585558952368358%89s85SHS

S85 8 868689886838

VEDNESDAY 2 OCTOBER 1953

:3 11139

ANOV

OUZ UMIDA

espert

Coveraga: 900 to 1900

6S552;527

-Daspide DIN-en Chev

375

4 " "".

88 88. 19 88.88 88.89 89

1818381

88 83 81

88.18 89

89 8887

5 1150 UMM

out a Norte por lacubaya en Foras? verdofentr81141)

71033 DE

•6 1205 LEON

In": 2URY de Orienté por Chicontepec de Falcos

372.

119 1

80: 88

880889 889888 88 88 NO 88 88 88 89 19 DO 88 18 10

" I 02

8 1216

inde Sur por Tacubaya de

bastal

Chev(sa1181219)

52137 DF

9

1210 VAN

1. Och.67

1222 U A M

out a Norte

por Tacubaya

12

80 8f d88

1188

13 88 88

88.89

14 1248 VAZQUEZ

out a Norte por Tacubaya

15 "

8

08 80 го

16 1259 ТІРО

out a Norte por Tacubaya de Chey (entró 1218)

1245248%8%862484253484828444481

10784868680888958568953868

THURSDAY 3 Dedober 1963

Doveraga: 900 to 1900

D 167

8385 3%

171200 UBH

13 1204 0 ##

19

19+9+948 18 0 0

20 1213 UHM

1n de Norte pox

in de sur por

- Prenbaya

PROHIBIFED®

80881888

8882 DF

8 88

88 88

21 1222 UMM

out a sur por Tacubaya

22:600

6860174

TE:I1056

21r/206Z

A4j

SEGRET

cod3025

241.

319

PAGE

0f

COPY NO.

---

