Viod-t0438-10001, [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1031 - 405 5 December 1968 3
Disposition - This document was released with portions deleted. The
deleted portions contain information about a specific foreign intelligence method,
* as well as information identifying Agency components and Agency staff
‘employees. Agency internal filing instructions were also deleted. The
deletions were made under the authority of exemptions (b)(1); (b)(2) and

7G). . .



zn)

— cC. ecRer) aon

x - 786
December 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT? "American Defectors to the USSR"

1, The attached material was part of a soft file entitled
"American Defectors to the USSR", which was set up by R/6)
Support) ar ound 1960 and maintained by various(SR)components
until ca, 1963, The compilations were derived from a variety
of sources, and contain both classified and overt data,

2. In the fall of 1966, the files were turned over t(GI)
Staff.) In most instances, basic’information was then abstracted
‘or the US Defector Machine Program) In all instances in which
he material was unique, or represented a valuable collation effort,
it has been incorporated into the appropriate 201 file, along with
a copy of this memorandum,

3, It is suggested that any dissemination of this data shou!d
be coordinated with 6B Division\and with (I Staff (CI/MRO), in
view of the frequently inadequate sourcing and of the fact ¢!
disseminations have already been made(thr ough the US Defector)

(Machine Program) 3

ILBender
XQ

nocumet Number joRl- 4 0S

for FOIA Review on SEP 1976

‘

(SECRET) QU-2 R27)

Sem  Gor-2 V9 V6


OSWALD, Lee Harvey ((z9/- 2 sg2ve) C hs 2)

Date of Births 18 October 1939. New Orleans, Louisiana
Date of Defeotions October 1959

Fiucations High school. Always a studious type, read books that were
considered "deep". .

Military Services

Joined the Marines at 17. Says he did this because he didn't
want to be a burden on his mother. Became a PFC, radar operators
14 months service Jay and the Philippines. Honorable discharge
on 3 September 1959 (dependency discharge).

Backgrounds

Father, an insurance salesman, died before lee was born. Has
@ brother who is a salesman at Acme Brick Company, ‘Yort Worth, Texas,
and a half brother John Edvard Pic age 28, a US Air Force Staff Sargeant
stationed in Japan. Mother is currently employed as a supply mother at
the Methodist Orphans Home, Waco, Texas. (DBF 49478, 25 May 1960)

According to newspaper article, reasons for his defection were a combi~
pation of family poverty, what he considers the plight of US negroes, and
the US Marines or American imperialism abroad. At 15 or so he read

“Das Kapital" and agreed with its theories. A year before his discharge,
he began to prepare for life in the Soviet Union by using a Berlitz
gramear to teach himself how to read and write Russian. Never, however,
did he consider deserting the Marine Corps.

After discharge from the Marines, Lee visited his mother in Fort Worth
for about 3 days, then left for New Orleans where he planned to resume
employment with an export-import company for which he kad worked prior
to enlisting in the Marines. Shortly after he arrived in New Orleans,
he sent his mother a note saying that he had booked passage to Europe,
that be was doing something he felt he mst do. His arrival in Moscow
came as a shock to the family. Travel money probably came from that
saved while in the Marines. He had nover expressed any sympathy for
the Soviet Union or Communism. He had been interested in Cuba and South
America and his family would have expected him to go there, if anyvhere.
Mail cent to him since his defection has been addressed to the Hotel
Metropole, Moscow. He acknowledged receipt of his mail in 1959, but
letters gent in 1960 have been returned to the senders. (DBF 49478)

In November 1959 ths Soviets were investigating the possibility of
sending Lee to a Soviet higher technical institute. (Wash.Evening Star)
May 1960 Mra. Oswald received a letter from the Albert Schyeltzer College

«ce: Gor -28927)

ns 2 oe



13-00000

in Switzerland, and which was addressed to Lee, which said in effect
i that this college was expecting Lee Oswald on 20 April 1960, After
1 receipt of the letter, Mrs. Oswald planned to write to the college to
H loarn if her son was in actual attendance thore, (Per A948

i The Soviets neither encouraged nor discouraged Oswald's desire to become

1 & Soviet citizen. The American Embessy wanted him to think it over
before hearing his oath renouncing American citizenship. As a result,

H Oswald is bitter towards the consul there. He has stated that regardless
of any material shortcomings he sees while in the USSR, he will never go
back to the USA.

Res. ain Honk. Werwes rehury osh

vedav Cerkam coodhon a 4
Ceanwh \ease Waele ufo gerentsiens cod Mens arog Wh preceding ape

(reve 3 Sed)

; Wareied Waren Vidlacuna Crosatoua, barn duly Ril, Valet,
BeghangekeO Nhe Lalnsvatory acest. Segh by ayphed “wise come USA
wily Dew ala.

Unleas so noted, info 4s from the Washington Evening Star, 26 Nov. 1959.
| Oem (Ore: % Oneal Jaw # Konmaty « a Qrrweer’
' ta ButaTy

Shel. + Kuta’ Me > Rady ew aenevtmbad 1763 whe
{- Vay anarweh form Retder Sud



13-00000

H
|
i
i
{
i
|

a - 5 December 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT?_"American Defectors to the USSR"

1, The attached material was part of a soft file entitled
| "American Defectors to the USSR", which was setup by
i around 1960 axd maintaixed by various - components
“until ca, 1963, The compilations were deriyed from a variety
of sources, and contain both classified and overt data,

2, In the fall of 1966, the files were turned over to

{. . In most instances, basic’information was then abstracted -
_» Inall instances in which

the material was unique, or represented a valuable collation effort,

: it has been incorporated into the appropriate 201 file, along with

~~ @ copy of this memorandum,

3. It is suggested that any dissemination of this data should
be coordinated with ~ and with: © in
view of the frequently inadequate sourcing and of the fact that
digserminations have already been made *.

at Orig - eit 4 \ a
a : rr . ” Document Number ioal- OS

, le, :

1. . for FOIA Review on. SEP 1876

1 . peeno |e

es Copy



13-00000

OSWALD, Lee Harvey ,
Date of Birth: 18 October 1939.- How Orleans, Louisiana

Data of Defaction: October 1959

Béucation: High school. Always a studios type, read books that were
considered "deep®.

Military Services

| Joined the Marines at 17. Says he did this because be didn't
want to be.a barden on his mother. Became a PFC, radar operator;
U, months service Ja: ard the Philippines, Honorable discharge
on 3 Septamber 1959 (dependenay discharge).

Backgrounds : \

Rather, an insuranca salesman, died before Lee was born. Has
a brother who is 4 salesman at Ace Brick Company, Fort Worth, Texas,
and a half brother John Edvard Pic age 28, a US Air Force Staff Sargeant
stationed in Japan. Mother is currently employed as a supply mother at
to the Methodist Orphans Home, Waco, Texas. |

According to newspaper article, reasons for his defection were a cokbi~
nation of fanily poverty, what he considers the plight of US negroes, and
the US Marines or American ingerialism abroad. At 15 or so he read

"Das Kapital” and agreed with its theorius. A year before his discbarge,
4 he began to prepare for life 4n the Soviet Union by using a Berlitz -
grammar to teach himself how to read and write Russian. Mover, however,
did he consider deserting the Marine Corps.

After discharge from tha Marines, Lee visited his mother in Fort Worth
for about 3 days, then left for New Orleans where he planned to resune
employmant with an export-import company for’ which he had worked prior
to enlisting 4n the Marines, Shortly after he arrived in New Orleans, |
he sent his mother a note saying that he had booked passage to Europa,
that he was doing something he felt he mst do. His arrival in Mbscow
came as a shock to the family. Travel’money probably came from that
saved while in the Mrines. He had never expressed any sympathy for
the Soviet Union or Commnism. Hoe had been. interested in Cuba and. South
America and his family would have expected him to go there, if anywhere.
Mall sent to him since his defection has been addressed to the Hotel
Metropole, Yoscow, He acknovledged receipt of his pail in 1959, but
letters sent in 1960 have been returned to the senders.

|

|

|

f

H :

! Za November 1959 the Soviets vere investigating the possibility ‘of

i sending Lee to a Soviet higher technical institute. (Nash.Evening Star)

| . May 1960 Mrs. Oswald received a lotter from the Albert Schveltzer College
t



-2-

in Switserland, and which was addressed to Lea, which said in effect
that this college was expecting Lae Oswald on 20 April 1960. After
receipt of the letter, its, Cswald planned to write to the college to
dearn if her son was in actual attendance there.

The Sovists neither encouraged ror discouraged Oswald's desire to becons
8 Soviet citizen. The Amarican Embassy wanted him to think 1t over
before hearing his oath renouncing Amarican citizenship. As a result,
Oswald is bitter towards the consal there. He has stated that regardless
of any material shortcomings he sees while in the USSR, he will never go
tack to tho USA.

Resse Moat, on

nN Mss Deswes ronen USN edu cerhow Co.
Conned Wace Wah ajo gerontern: eho cond hens (ding Ma preted

Warned Marwan Videlacina Vrosatova, bern duly Wil, Navel,
Beha ZNO. Laboratory acash. Sek ty apphed visa come.
wih Osuoaha, a 7

Unless so noted, info 1s from the Washington Bvening Star, 26 Nov. 1959.
: Never
Qed (Gres Gnatud Jou F Keonmoty ee ;
we en) % 1763 :
Shot + KAlR te Rabat om as newtmbed 1943, rhe

bem moved am Detles aan

