{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

‘4 =
[104-10232-10019]
% bs

Coavamnwations +

SECRET

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, IMWAVE
cs)

——
Chief, WH Division
S*"°JMZIP/Operational - Contact with Dr, MIRO Cardona

ACTON ENED ROTTEN

For your information, transmitted herewith is a report of contact with
subject written by Theodore F, PASSAVOY, and a memoof WH/4 comments.

(END OF DISPATCH)

Copy > Ameen hy
Cae

Tare

19 Oct 61

GPRTEN BMD AAD ROVER
UFGW-606

attachment - 1

TEADQUARTERS FE MOMBER

19-124-25.



10 Cetoror 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Mooting with Dr, N10 Cardona on 6 Cctober
1, Dr, MIRG arrived sbout 9:50 a,m. (for tho meeting we had

set at 10:60; ayain he wao driven by his secratary whom ho introduced.
As during the {irat meeting, sha remained outside in the car, Cur

“meeting lasted usti! 12:09 noon,

2. Fizet, De, MIXO handed me a acte in longhand Hating the
topics discussed with mo on 3 Uctober, These pointe arai

a. Groupe conducting propaganda, ete. with Agency support
should recoive their support and be courdinuated through the Council.

b, A proparanda campaign phauld be waged by the Council
almed ats

(1) Cuba, via a long wave radio stattan in Key Weet,
(2) Cubans ja Miami and other U, 3, areas by:

(a) Subsidizing Diario de las Americas.

{>) Contracting for time on radio stations.

(3) Latin America, with a plan such as the Operacian
Gripta,"

¢, Underground Activities.

(1) Provision of monthly funds to Council for procuring
Cuban pesve to eond to the seven-odd resistance
groupe in Cuba through rellable hana ch ap
previously sent through tho|



Sibi]

(2) Commando action as outlined in plan presented
to ime on 6 Cetober,

3. Commando Plan

Then Dr, MIKO handed me a plan (in English) for clandestine
ection prepared by his military collaborators, whom he named a9
Colonel Manuel VARELA Castro, an officer of the Academy, Captain
Enrique DESPAIGNE, and Colonel (fnu) MONTEAGUDO, He stated
that they wore of the BARQUIN group and had been prizoners,

With respect to the pian for clandestine operations in Cuba,
he stated that 300 men could be counted upon for coromando action, part
of them hore, part in Cuba, He reiterated that a commande operation
was ¢ascntial to bolater morale arnung tho anti-Castro elements in Cuba
and tn exilo ae well as to conduct sabotage that would further weaken
Cuban economy and the Communist regime, He said that for thie operation
U. 5, help would be neceosary in providing weapons, ammo, demolitions,
equipment, and funds. He proposod that if this plan was considered to
have merit, that I arrange to have somaone meet with hio military ren
to work out the details, After all proparations had been made and
material provided, etc. the operation would be purely a Cuban affair,
(NOTE: Plan turned over to Thompacn at our ue cting at 15:39 on
6 October for tranormiaaion. }

4. Request for Arma, etc. to send to Eacambray

Dr. MIRO remarked that over a month ago he had made a requost
to Clark for arms for the anti-Caatro inaurgents in the Eecambray, but
to date had heard nothing rolative ty the request, He commented wryly,
“Tack but never hear an anower."' He said that the fighters there should
be oupported. Dr. MIRO stated that he had a boat (provided by us) and
@ means for delivery uf the arms, Csvaldo RAMIREZ is chief of the

Eecambray group. |
COMMENT: Hag anything been done about this requent?

3. Inforroation on Arms Received by Castro Regime

Dr. MIKO handed me a long report which he aaid wae brought
to him by the Argentina Anubaasador to Cuba when the latter came to the
U. S. at the time of Froaident FRONDIZI's visit.” He eaid the Ambassador
would not divulge the source of the information but commented, “You will

know.
* Report turned over to Thompson on 6 October.

2



Dr. MIRO eald there wag no way to determing the accuracy
of the figurea given of planos, guna, etc. received irom the Soviot bloc |
(ond Laly and Canada) but even il-the figuroa were exaggerated 100 por
cont, they would still ba impreosive, :

He added that Castro is datly becoming stronger militarily
with weapons and with a largo militia of close to 300, 000 being trained
“ to use them while the economy coutinues to detericrate, Perhaps only i
half the militia would be effoctive. But that is aizeable, Thus, he said, 4
the langer the delay in positive military action to overthrow Castro, the i
greater will be the task. “We must act soon, viyorouoly and effectively,
to lnoure victory. Another defeat would be dieastroua and would make :
Cubano, Latin Americaua and others believe Castro to be Invincible,
Then would core accommodstiona and even worse, the implaating of
H Castro-backed rayiines in the hormisphere. And the U. S, would ouffer
' worst of all, being discredited for defeat and ‘guilt of interference. "
Hy “In the UN no nation wouid stand beside the U, 5,"

& Proposal that Counet! go to Cuba with Commando Group and i

Establish a Government on Cuban Sot)

Dr. MIRO then declared that he wac convinced that Castro
wouid never be overthrown by all tho propaganda, the sabota.e, commando
valde, guerrilla activities, rupture of diplomatic relations and deteriorating

' economy, ard that it vac inconceivable to establish » governmoat-inexile

: for nothing would ¢: me of it; that the only solution far defeating the

i . Castro regime waa for the Revolutionary Council to go to Cuba and estab-
eh a yovernment on Cuban soll, aak recognition by all iriendly counttiee
and military adsistance of ita priwipal ally, the U. and that the U.8,
be ready to intervene humediately with ita Forcea, “This would all have

: to take place in a scatter of 48 huure, otherwise it would fall. I recognise
that this lo a bold plan, but boldness is necessary. There will be many
Fiske, many may be killed. As for myseif, 1 don't care iC die. Ihave
joat all my personal possessions and my son te a prisoner,’ He reiterated
that all miuat be well prepared in advance, there nrust be no vacillation,
everything must proceed rapidly. First, a con:mando raid in foree to
eeizo a piece of Cuban territory, preferably noar Guantanamo, and irame- fr
diately the members of the Council yo ashore, proclalin a provisional !
govornment, brondcast by radio to all nations an appeal for recoyaltion i
{and cableo propared in advance wrald alee be sent out), request U, 3, H
aselatance, and the U. S$, should fursish ouch assistance at once in ad.

quato atrongth to ensure victory.



bilne

mn

Before such an action {a undertaken, tae enemy raust be
softened by propazanda, sabotage, raide, underground action, and the
mags of the people of Cuba snust be prepared to accept the provisional
government througirpropayanda, increased knowledge of the Council
and ite unifying efforts.

Gr, }IRG asked me what I thought of this project; did I think
that Castro could be overthrown in any uther way. Ladnvitted that
strong military action appeared noceasary, I stated further that
of course hia plan would have to be studied at the highest povernment
levela, He proposed that he inizht elaborate a pian with nia military
collaborators, and I guy, osted that he dy this so that it might be examined

and considered,

Dr. MIAO declared that he was convinced that this Counmuntat
dagger in the aide of the States could only be eradicated by such action,
that the U.S, 4g and will be blamed for el! anti-Castro propaganda,
sabotage, ste. and that enemy staten will denounce It for intervention
in Cuba, but that if the U, 5. goes to the ald af a friendly revolutionary
regizae established in the country aad ho}pe it defeat the Soviet-backed
Communist regime, ail friendly governments will applaud,

“Lbave no personal political ambitions,” declared SiIRG,
“merely am trying to chair the Coureil, whose clusion is to unify the
anti-Castro slements tnaide and outside of Cuba. If tha team isn't cons
sidored effective, then chango the pitcher, But l believe the Council must
eatablish itself an Cuban evil, and soon, Tire is against us. "Tha unta
de} Fete sgreeimont will backfire ayatnat the U. 5. if Castro is allowed
to remain fn Cuba. In a year, after the politicos of tho countries ro-
cotving U, 3, sid have gotten their bands on U. 3. cold, they will say,
‘Tharke te Castro, we got this,' And they will spend it as in the past
with no benefits to the sucial and economic welfare of the paople.”

7. Views about the Judges and jawyers

Tquerted Dr, MIRO a0 to his views relative to the judges and
lawyers and their future status. He said ae honed that they could all
reunite and that they could be given ascietance as in the past. He de-
elared that Dr, ALABAU was not qualified to be a justice and that he wao
doing nothing but making politics and trying to discredit the Council
and MIRC anl VARONA. Dr. MIRC declared that ha, as Prime Ministor
in the early days of tha Castro goverurncnt, had named - LABAU to the



al

Supreme Court, but that now be considered “LABAU unfit to hold any
judicial position,

8. Members of the Revolutionary. Council

Dr. MIRO remarked that he had a moeting of the Council oa
10 October. Iasked what elements now composed it and what he pro-
posed to add, He named the following as presently in the Consejo:

walal

Rescate

30 de Noviembre
MRR

Accion Democratica
20 de Mayo

AAA Independiente
MDC

Montecristi

He said ho had invited to join:

MRP
Unidad Revolucionaria

and awaited their reply.

Ho would alee like to have the Workers, Students, and the
Professionsle (Doctors, Lawyers, etc.) come into the Council. He be-
Heves Batistianos and Comunistas and elements unwilling to cooperate
should be excluded, but that all other groups should be brought together

under the Council.

He contends that all anti-Castro activities, except clandestine
and miltary, should be coordinated by members of the Council, but that
the oxcepted activities should be known only to hin (MIRO).

9. Probabie Argentine Rupturs of Relations with Cubs

Dr. MIRO deciared tast he believed imminent the Argentine
rupture of relations with Cuba, He said the Argentine Ambassador to
Guba (Julio AMOEDO) was ordered to return to Havana (he had beon
vacationing in the U. S. after FRONDIZI'e visit); that VILLANUEVA, a
Secretary of the Argentine Embassy in Cuba was coming to seo MIRO
today; and furthor that he (MIRO) had received a phone call last night



|
|

Malte

from a Spaniard (Nicanor FERNANDEZ) in Buenos Aires, urging MIRO
to go to Buonos Aire to arouse anti-Caatro sentiment of the people,
inasmuch ae some Argentine action against Cuba appearod imminont.
(FERNANDEZ said ho had alroady written MIRO a letter.) MIRO cays,
“Cf course, Teannot'go. I havo the Consejo meeting on the 10th,
Furthermore, Iam going to Now York on October 11th or 12th for the
SIP (Socieded Interamoricana de Prensa) meeting and havo been allotted

12 minutos to addréss the meoting. *

10, MIRO to attend Homage to LACE RDA (Brazilian who
Precipitated QUADKUS' rooiynation) on Uctober 15

Dr, MIRO said he planned to remain in New York City (alter
11 and 12 Cctober SIP meoting) unti) October 15th to attend the homage
for LACERDA, the Governor of Guanabare province in Branil, MIRO
probably will etay at the Park Chambers Hotel, but will advise Clark

of hia location.

1 commented that 1 wou/d probably romain in Washington next
week in view of his plans, but that I might go to New York City to meet
with him; if ao, I would get in touch with him and arrange a meeting
timo and place through Clark,

11. Propaganda Commission

Tasked Dr, MIRO abcut his ideas on the future organization
and structure of tha Propaganda Commission. He stated that it {¢ out-
side tho Conseje and not undor his direct control, although the Council
accountant has been passing funds to it, He aaid CAR RILLG had rosigned
as head of Propaganda and that ho would lixe CONTE AGUERG to handle
it, He claimed that MESTRE had not done anything with propaganda,

12, MIRO's Views Relative to Supreme Court Justice or PRIO
being Recognized ag Hoad of a Provisional Government

lasked Dr, MIRC if he belleved that there were many anti-
Castro Cubans (botk in and out of Cuba) whe favored PRIO, or the head
of the Supreme, Court to be the provisional presideat if a governmont were
to be established on Cuban soil, Dr. MIRO declared that tho revolution
{a a fact, and that practically nobody wants to go back to any former
Fogime. The people in Cuba would rosist any such possibility, He de-


a8 a
Sheed

nounced PRIO'e activities ayainot tho Council and ite efforts to unify
the anti-Castro elomante. He said that the people should be givon an
opportunity to elect their chicf of stato after Castro's overthrow and

veestablishment of ordor in the feland:

13, Cffices of Council (Consejo Revotucionario)

When questioned about his businesa and private telephonoo,
MIRO aaid, “The business phone ia also in my house. I have no office
except in my house, but that phone is always busy (JEfforson 2-4680),
Yo use the othor phone (JELferaon 4-2751) when you wish to call me."

"I need to have a small office somewhere away from my home
because all the activities thero are driving my wife crasy. ! want to
find something modest so that no accusation can be made of ostentation ~
merely a room for myself, one for my aceretary, and one for meetings.
of the Council, ote. The FRD had a place but at that piace also waa the
proaa, the refugee centor, etc, It would not be satisfactory, The FXD
ie now practically dead, It was tho forerunner of the Consejo aa the
unifying agency of the anti-Castro reaistance, "

14, MIRO's Views on Coordinating the Activities of Cther Exile

Groups

After Dr, MIRO reiterated his view that he should bo the
channel for funds and coerdinating the activities of groups outside the
Consejo such as tho Students, FOXD (Labor), etc., I said that I under~
atood that some of these alemente were unwilling to function undor the
Censejo; and that in view of that situation, did he consider that an
Activity Committee might be organized with a delegate fram each of
theae groups and under the chairmanchip of a member of the Canaojo,
This would serve to coordinate their activities, give them a tie-in with
the Consejo, yet not make them subservient to it, Dr. MIRO repliod
that this would merely vet up another Consejo outside of and parallel to
the oxisting Consejo, I did not pursue thie further, not having enough
background of these organisations to be able to discasa the matter

effectively.

15, Telephone Conversation with MIRO on 7 Cctober

Before my departure from Miami for ¥aehingtan on 7 October,
Itelephaned to Dr, MIRO from the airport. Ho appreciates the call and
asked if I had seen in the morning paper tho action taken yeaterday by


ent:
wllne
the ALABAU Lawyoro' group in proclaiming Jullo CARCERAN (one

of the chiof justicos In oxile) as "President of Cuba at War," He ex
prossed his indignation at this unilateral "political" move by ALABAU
and his adherents among the exiled lawyers and judges. Ho added hie
best wishes to 122 and reminded me that he would probably go to Now
York on October 11th or 12th for the SIP (Sociodad Interamericana do
Prensa) meeting. I replied that [ would appreciate if he would contact
Clark after his arrival to give his location in New York City, and that
Clark might havo a requoat from me for an appointment with him, if
this soemed dasirable. I suggested that tn future phono convereationa

I would be known ac JUANITG. He agroed with pleasuro that this would
be a good procedure. I wished him Godspeod and he repliod likewise

to me,

16, Comment

During these first two meotings 1 endeavored to cstablish
myself favorably with Dr, MIRO and therefore refrained from bringing
up detafle of budget or opposition to any of his specific proposals,

I listened, ackod various questions, and he talked at length,

In future meetings, after I have gained further background and
havo more policy guidance, I shall be able to discuss with him epecific
jesues and endeavor to reach agreements or compromises, ae may be

required,

