‘io4-40186-10338 [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT —— F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

‘THis material contatos information afectiag the National Defecee of the United Sutes within the meaning of the Expicoage Laws, Tue
USE: cect 89 and THK tbe aranmaton or rvmaics ef ePic8 Im any manner wo an unwutherted perme preibted BY IWF. Bory roag ry Gay

SECRET Background Use Only
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
Bo Not Reproduce
‘ Auapeeba Rerort NO. = CSC1-316/00559-65

susect Fernando PASCUAL Perez bate oistR. «= 9 February 1965
| (alias “Alejandro")
NO. PAGES 1 “

REFERENCES S-311/00115-64
(page 7) 8 July 1964

pag. 1964. CSCI-316/00270-64
piacea Washington, D. C. 20 July 1964
Date acqanuary 1965 FIELO REPORT NO.

THIS 15 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE,

source,A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964, an

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressecs take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Upon further questioning of source concerning additional
information on Fernando PASCUAL Perez, alias "Alejandro," he
stated that PASCUAL was a former member of the Departamento de
Seguridad del Estado (Department of State Security - DSE). He
is alleged to be one of the original members of the Direccion
General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence -
DGI). PASCUAL is a specialist in illegal operations in Salvador
and Panama.

2. PASCUAL was born in about 1940. He.is a Caucasian and is
five feet six inches tall, weighs 135 pounds, and has a slender
build. PASCUAL is fond of cars and women.

Headquarters Comment

1. Aside from the information forwarded in the above referenced
reports, this Agency has no additional identifiable information
on PASCUAL.

eee 5
4
3
SECRET 2
NO FOREIGN DISSEM . i

ware__Toia Tae Trav Te Tosa Tax Toc Tpi2

REP__CINCLANT CINCSO # _J&NS
{Note: Field dutribution indicated by “#".)

~~ HEX" 1838

[IUFGA 19020(2iDer64) “
NO PROJECT (AMMUG/’1)

i : if ap tersicnt vat Terts

java... Lal ei oa poe 2:

versus WH/SA RCT) WR 1 9) or a RINT erascy BRR. A,

nd

