# 104-10059-10345

## Page 1

1104-10059-10345

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

• ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION

NO.

DATE

C/DO/IMS/OG

1D4122

TO: (Officer designation, room number,

and s

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

C/IMS

1D4124

1060%

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment to shom trom whor

› whom. Draw a line across column after each comment

FORWARDED

10juk

2.

3.

4.

PCS/LOC 2D0109

TUBE: DX GREEN

ATTN: NASHEPANEK

h

6.

7.

8.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USEDTENOUS 1 SECRET

EDITIONS

7 CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAI

USE ONL'

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CDU4C7

RIC N0 FORGE MADONAS

7 1978

10 22 AN °78

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Donald P. Gregg

PCS/ LOC

ATTENTION:

Norbert A. Shepanek

FROM :

Marvin L. Smith

Chief, Operations Group

SUBJECT:

House Select Committee on Assassinations

(HSCA) Request

REFERENCE:

• HSCA Letter (OLC 78-2099) dated 23 May 1978

A. (S) An intensive search of the files and indices

• of this Directorate has revealed the following information

on the individuals listed in reference.

Since birthdates

were not provided for all of the individuals, the information

surfaced may or may not pertain to them.

1. Thomas Nathaniel Mosley

DTR-00397 (copy attached)

2.

Homer Samuel Valdivia - Echevarria

201-0767409 (copy attached)

3.

Francisco Blanco

201-0332676 (record copy attached)

4.

George Marti

No information

5.

Gonzalez Oselia

We are unable to identify this individual

because of insufficient biographic information

and the (phonetic) given name.

4225

2 IMPDET CL BY 62223I

WARNING NOTCE

¡SENSITIVE INTELLGENCE EGURCES

AND MET 70: 11/01 VID

SECRET

NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

STORET

NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

6.

7.

8.

James Traupela

No information

William Newton

There are twelve records on one William Newton

whom we cannot positively identify without

additional biographic information.

Jose Cardosa

There are six records on one Jose Cardosa

(or Cardozo or Cardoza) •

We cannot positively

identify these individuals as being pertinent

to the request without additional biographic

information.

9.

Martin Morua

201-0320262 (copy attached)

B.

(S)

C1 Staff responded directly to your Office

on 27 June 1978 with information concerning Homero

Echevarria Valdwia, Juan Francisco Blanco Fernandez,

Jorge Luis Marti, William J. Newton, and Martin Morua

Arechea.

C.

(S) The files of the Central Cover Staff contain

wenty documents on one William B. Newton, Jr.

14 March 1916•

These documents concern the establishment,

maintenance and use of cover for Newton during the period

1961-1976, while he was an Agency Staff employee. These

documents

are available for review in CCS.

D.

(U) This Office was unable to provide the

photographs

requested in paragraph two of reference because

no biographic data was supplied on the individuals.

E. (U) It has been further determined that the

individuals mentioned in reference have not been the subject

of an FOIA or PA request.

F. (U) All third agency documents have been enveloped

and identified.

NOT TOROP TO 203

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

G. (U) The processing of this case was closely

coordinated with Norbert Shepanek and this memorandum was

reviewed in draft by him on 5 July 1978

Attachments:

As

stated above

•"GARLE TO FOREVEN MATURALO

---

