# 104-10161-10521

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10161-10521

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

'RESPONSE TO DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION REQUEST FOR NAME CHECKS

OS FILE NUMBER

054 621

#C DCD/S

FROM: Industrial & Certification Branch, Clearance Division, Office of Security

...?

26 April 1977

TO : Domestic Collection Division, FO:

Saa Francisco

25 liarch 1977

SUBJECT'S FULL NAME

SATEEKAS

Adrian

Middle

Ficher.

US CITIZEN

ALIEN

US

OTHER NAMES USED INCLUDING MAIDEN, ALIASES, ETC.

THIS NOTICE IS VALID THRU

ADIIl 1982

(Mo.-Yr.)

USE OF SUBJECT DURING THIS PERIOD BY OFFICES OTHER THAN DCD

(except those having prior interest) MUST BE COORDINATED WITH DCD

1. Reference is made to your request for name checks on the Subject person. If the identifying information furnished is erroneous in any

way, this division should be notified immediately. Checks based upon erroneous information are invalid.

2. The necessary checks have been completed and no pertinent information has been obtained except as noted below:

CITIZEN:

Passport data attached.

Subject was last favorably investigated in —

Denied Area Case: FBI Check was completed.

-. Other NAC's were completed

This office has no objection to Subject being used in accordance with DCI's memorandum dated 25 November 1961

Summary of noteworthy information is attached for your consideration in determining the extent and level of your use of Subject.

ALIEN: This is not an approval for this alien's access to classified information.

FBI has no objection to contact with Subject.

Pertinent information has been devcloped, and is attached.

3. This advisory on investigative results is for contact purposes only and is not to be construed as a clearance of Subject person beyond that.

4. Coordination of prior interest:

No objection interposed by -

Please contact -

13/57 Juay Doyed media edite day dive then ane resta

may have current interest:

FOR DCD/HQS USE ONLY

Chief. Clearance Division, OS

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

FORM 2941

7-73

z/pi

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

CONFIDENTIAL

E-2, IMPDET CL. BY: 007622

7 - OS/CD

MFG. 10-73

---

