|1o4-10177-10084 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

wg : oY. -/ Vw Pea BLO LEE ae

pl Leash) 0 eee tig” >
Ae -

Ha Ar 66
: C-_ Tee?

SEORET ~~ Voy,
PI)
"Gp oy Ue
“me a
7 nov 1962 es
: HMORANDUM FOR! Chief, CA staff : Le
: Hi A
mat Di oss a persion pers) 7S ar
SUBTECT 1 NOS8, Biverd K : Oe
ng ook a

°

1. Reference is made to your menorantan dSited 22 Octabsr 1962
in-vhich you requosted a Covert Security Approval to utilize subject
as an adviser in the public relations Pela under Project ZKAOR.
Courdinstion must be effected with the 5 Division which has a prior
interest. Your attention in directed to our mancrantza concorning
tho Subject viich was forvrded to CI/0A on 1y Mare 1959.

2. In eecorfance with the proviotona cet farth in Clandestine
Gervicés Instruction Ko. 1005 and Clandestine Services Instructioa =
Field No. 10-5, a Covert Security Approval is granted for the use of
the Bubject, aa descrited in your request es ost forth in paragraph 1,
above.

3. Subjects of Covert Security Ayyravale are not Prepresant
: thanselyes as, nov are they to bo reyresonted as, emplayees of CIA.

i 4, Your attention is called te the fact that a Covert Security

: Approval docs not constitute camlete cempliance with the provisions
of CIA Regulation 10-210. ‘Therefore, 1f you should desire at a inter
date to change the atetus or ure of thie indivieual, a renest for
erprovel to cover ‘any propoced change should ve submitted to this
orice.

A 5. Tate eyprovel bocaaes invalid in the event the subject's
gant are not utilized within aix montis of the date ef this
menovenhis

