‘404-40218-10077| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

‘ee ee . 8 November 1967-—

MEMORANDUM TO: CI/OA ‘
FROM \  DO/T : i

SUBJECT : LICOOKY 1 (201-278841)

REFERENCE =: Form 889 dated 27 October 1967

1. The following summaries indicate no derogatory
information on Subject.

2. New York report dated 12/29/59 captioned "June COBB -
Registration Act-Cuba" furnished CIA 1/8/G). This report
stated that June Cobb translated pamphlets as part of her
job for Fidel Castro with the idea of familiarizing the
American people with Castro's writing. June Cobb believes
Castro is doing a tremendous job in reconstructing the
\ : economy of Cuba.. However, she stated that in her opinion
it is unthinkable that Communism would ever be embraced by
Castro or the people of Cuba. There seems to be no particular
significance to this report as this information was previously
known by the Agency.

3. Letter to Director, FBI, from CIA dated 11/7/60
captioned "June COBB - Internal Security - Cuba". Bernie
Brennan asked June Cobb to deliver some information to
Juan Orta who stated that Brennan was not needed anymore.
Cobb thought Brennan might have been attempting to obtain
a position with the Cuban Tourist Commission. The Agency
has no further interest in Brennan. Therefore, there is
no significance attached to the report.

4. Washington report dated 4/26/62 captioned "Lyle;
Stuart - IS - Cuba; SM-C; RA-Cuba", furnished to CIA -
5/4/62 was merely interview with Stuart. There is no;
significance attached to this report.

SECRET



5. Letter from CIA to Director, FBI, dated 8/19/64
captioned "Lyle Stuart" (CSI 316/00789-64). June Cobb
interviewed re Lyle Stuart. Lyle Stuart attempted to get
close to Fidel Castro for the purpose of exploiting the
journalistic advantages of an interview. Therefore, there
is no significance attached to this report considering that

it was merely an interview. rat
vt a prem
Pie 3S

: __Lee Ann Peterson

i
}

