# 104-10187-10124

## Page 1

104-10187-10124

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

8ol

o1..

Background Use Only

Do Nol Reproduce

SUwEST:

Documenis drugit out bu dilal and dis arments Coriceining

Then.

Document 4

"Companero

1. 1 lotter died 2o pril 1?64 addreascd to "Compito ViLd" and

signed "AGUETO", his leitir requusts ViLA to audist benrer. Ie

Lott. a uns siven to filed by tie depty Chief of DOI ("GUS") to

Introduce him to tha dGI officia assigned to Prague, "'CUSTO" is pseudo

used within the Del for the Dejut: Chick this 1s knoim in the Ministry of

Foreigu Relitions as "CAl:".

ATal eralled in the head of the service, Manuel l'INaLiO,

rent in Moscow on n trip leaving aba 1l April 1014, The Source (i1-1)

ricchtly lnd eturne: Fron Marico on 23 sarch 1964. After the departure

of PINEIRO the Source toli the Deput: Chief that it os nece cary for

him, the ource, to do so frague so that le could

Mort on 22 April lih

Moburto CHIlLI: DiaDO, the Sucrotary General

ali in la salvadore

These arc

the

true nas ind position of Cifullis but the Soirce invented

the reason

for raking an over :cional reting in Prague inowing that the

Deputy Chief of the service would not knor any batior. (The Source had

rone

to "ckico on

1t Birch 19 for the piro so

of holding a neoting

with CAR:ISLiS

and nter cabers

of the Camunist

Party Eron El Salvador,

but thie ne ting reill; did not tair

pl:co bocuuse the Salvadorians failed

to arcare In talling do the sauty diich di the Service, the Source said

that he had, a meetin; in lexico which made it necescar; for him to have a

ma:ting in Prague with ültIllas, who had to be in iraque for still another

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-2.

-citing, relitlng toceroicetary activities. co a carriod out in

El soleador.) Tie so rio diú ciis because it sucred to his the bose

"Ry! geteing out of buss ith docurints which bi had gathered. ide

source cas succeesful in cozvincing

cha Deputy Gilot of tha Service, thes

the orerational actin- in itique was a nece:sari follow-up to tle

Source?: recent trip to ierico, inca Source prepared hi- briefcase cos

the trip o:t

of Cuba he fouas thit only a part of the documents which

he had been collecting bold fit, lie sclected those hich appenred

Lost interesting aù left the others locied in his ofice in the Dor.

It uns the source's intertion to serk asylues once he irrived in the

free world at the first sto? in Cunada and to request sue thit he be

pemitted to 5o to the ü.s, "ith the documunes lo surrender them to

3a Source collectoi tie jocuments over a period of tire at

considerable risk beciuse a nuzier of the docurents were in the posses: is

of otiser CuIS officers in their destis

or saies. Sourco nade it a cusia-

to visit these offices aná to taie advantajo of the temporary absence of

the officera acrigned to than to stoal the documents which he chen put is

his ou safe.

4. The Source was.

quite terried recause hi fearce that then he arzim?

si the air ort to leave dia to sight be required to open his bricicase.

is tear proved troun lest, anú being able io leave aila un 21 April i

on a flight for tra ue chich ha' to ios at lialifar, cinada.

So Prior to leaving indir ine source withdrew fros his sovings

ecant in a Cuban bank all chat he hed which aounted to 1270 Giban

pesos.

Ha gara this corne to bir rice whose nire is Luisa DrIGUit

soiriguez fraiden nara sure is zartied dare). In jiving the suney to des

---

## Page 3

4-00000

-30

le did not aj that ho intonded to Jolect and, in face, necs para:ker,

127d

ind Elven her my Indiention of his plane to do so. le kent her Ignorante

of his intentions despite the fret that a'e and her father- are opposed

do tho Castro Regius licause he fell it better for her not to bo burdoned

satt: gulley knowlodge. In giving her the money ho said that pusalbly ho

would be delayed in pragua becauso the batter ha had to ¿locuss us

cosplicated.

lie told hor thorcfore that he woul! fecl better knowing

chal ale had sufficient funds at hand to tric care of any cueriencies in

connection itil hursulf or her children (uy a previous parriajo); a boy,

Vincente, 13 yeres 011, and a girl, Francisca, 12 yarrs old.

8a The GUIS (Ui1) sent a cablo to rague to nuvise that tlie Source

souls be arilving, iccordingly, lion die courco loit the plana it ilalifax

It as a forcione concision t. it hi: flilure to :trive as schedule: vould

Do sensteil to his on service.

7 In adlicion, when the source did arrive le liallfae i'e pilot and

cro de liar irpiano and the othor poe on ors deun a dare of the fict

thie la lad requested asylum in tiu fren "arli, they calleù his a traitor

"hich led li to state that he e no nore a traitor for lieving the present

ke-ins than fidel Castro:'s for of orin; the Bilists Rejiuc. the Inter-

change of co enos bitein the toured int thosi "do nore contin.ing on the

El: jit to reague 11 0st resulted in a flot iichtat laligax, The Source

tont fion Giba j2015 in lodo di'13

• practically all of this arount was

• what re ained fior che

lorio ire:.

to hin by dil when

he sari to

Nexico:

rihich he hai not accoul; alu:

to.v

given him for

the

trip to pengue, Mun is schnied ii: in: isis

is anadian authorities

---

## Page 4

14-00000

ariorey (ahis secolst do alds disached), Dia differance of j:5.:"

chat do had did dance i djo sponsoo unila do sentia de

¿su not siren dia a recripto ¡noles) cortiral die cila onusc

vocal a problem cite ile sanitas, lar uly incauso on talkies sita

cha Canadian Initrition sevil ita sourcu indicatou chit the suncy

colonie? to the divan coveriani anchor thil to liensulf, Mhis bas

revited io ino Guardian aseral difairs Dirice and loù to aircisiv

Di tha Chralian isorient to tol' thi AlsO! -UaS. and Salvadorin

so that de culla de returne: do the dido, dorermient it regestio mis

Ladis asia de: anary an' de do racere choGie a 926

cold trip

in surro's orinion, if the aurop o's recurred do 1E coul! di lsia for

protolin, siraludins in the tris world alici: Inclu ad Canida, ado

Ceciole in all oraline day sold hot do delei do

sire it to iho murer or to siist

In this correction it choil do notul thit mon Listic aristo

in Canada no decision dad die suo a to the disposition taicà rals

De ::de not

onli' of che nonin tut 11s0 de the sourer himsoli and die

6/5V

---

## Page 5

4-00000

choir sesiro a to curnorer dia fource and crorychen; that lo had

broughe to lalicuia: but tait chianna a polley muler inder dad to

Do resolved by the G-nadian ioverrent and not only by ties??

24

mis : atter unle it sorenari difficult to conluct Incorvicus with tha

Source recauso all of than vera tapod by chaBound' Luscal hind

tu la circlul do avoll questions or anguers witch put obátacios in

the pith of sceuring the turlurer of source anil want liu liad brought

wie: lin. the final decision of the Canndlari covorment, altor tha

Intrivention of the Ottamn station; on thit tha Jource anl the docum'nts

could be turned over but not the none%.

The source soirl that the recounto fur an Intelliience Ulficer in

tha iGI are not subdected lo clusi inspecilon and that, in fact, lia

1al the authority do a dust calicor lu chare of the salvedorian

arer to refieit sub-rantil arunts for ours ting "illout iny necd for

accauntings. l sipical ciple is that he coul' dens for avory traince

fro: hin on assigned are: 1l209 tithout question, le did have to jive

det.riled accountingforlirior crounditures.

z/00

---

