# 104-10147-10202

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10147-10202

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Поленко

INTERNAL USE ONLY

ADDENDUM TO JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Thursday - 6 July 1978

1.

(Confidential - MMP) LIAISON Accompanied Scott

Breckinridge, Special Coordinator for the House Select

Committee on

Assassinations, OLC, and Rodger Gabrielson,

OLC, to briet Thomas K. Latimer,

Staff Director, House

Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, on

the state of

play as between the House Select Committee

on Assassinations

and the Agency.

Mr. Latimer immediately understood that the

crux of the problem

lay in the House Select Committce on

Assassinations possible exposure of sensitive information

(Nosenko and/or Mexico operations) in open fora. He said

that he would brief Chairman Baward P. Boland (D., Ma that

Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence,

the latter might discuss the matter with Chairman

Louis

Stokes

Ohio), House Select Committee on Assassinations.

He suggested

the best approach would be for the DCI to

raise the issues

we were concerned about with Chairman Stokes

and, then, if necessary with the President. The latter in

turn

could register his concerns with Speaker of the House Thomas !.

O'Neill.

Mr.

Latimer said that the House Permanent Select Committee

this matter.

2. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Received a call from

Spencer Davis, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff,

who asked for

Newton'S. Miler, as one of the Committee staff members wanted

to intervicw him.

Mi let as hone

the phone number of former Agency employee

June, 0/PCS/LOC/DDO, subsequently called

in his absence, left a message that he call Davis.

Mean mans to tes ho e had handled his request and

he was satisfied.

I also explained to Davis the Agency's position regarding

retired Agency employee Raymond Close, who was Chief of Station

and upon retiring took a position as a consultant

to the Saudi Government. Our position is that as close has

retired, the Agency has no control over his activities other

through his secrecy agreement which he signed and which

remains in effect.

Davis also asked me if the same situation

was true for a former Chief of Station in

landI said I

would check.

INTERNAL USE ONLY

CONFIOGNTIAL

21681

---

