# 104-10185-10098

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10185-10098

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1T90 Prates Mild k1e0 carentre 1a tire 54794 1a

C20.

COLATTY

DATE O7

INFa

• DÄTE ACO

SOURCE

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

Cuba

"Stion" (rickraing)

КЕРОНІ МО.

DUATE DISTA

На РАСИЗ

КРАЛЕМОЙ

@CI-310/00717-64

O Eepteraber. 1964

RETURN TO CIAY

Background Use Orly

Do Not Reproduce

1984

• Wastington, D.C.

Soote moar 1981

20 MON

PRAIRA ON CONTENT I 1

TENTATM

former Cuban Is allicor who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service untll April 1884

Headquarters Comments

The following report in one ol a serles containing personality.

Information prouidei by tha source and includes supplementel

Information from the rocords al this Agency.

It is requested that the addreanees take no action on any al the.

Individuals mentioned in the personality reports without lirat

checking with this ngoney.

• T.

I source does not know the true name of "Chino"

(nicknaze);, but said he le a member of the Direccion General

de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DCl).

In 1950 and 1800 he was & policeman working in the Department

of Investigation of the Revolutionary National Police at the

15th or 18th Police station.

2. Source described "Chino" as being about five feet

nine Inches tall, 145 pounds, looking Indian, with a dark

complexion, black wavy aalr, small eyes (pecullar to Chinese

men), a lean lace, and having a thin moustache.

Headguarters Comment

1. Due to a lack of information on "Chino" it is not possible to

determine his true. Identity.

АЛИ!

REP CINCLANT

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

CINCSOT

T&NG *5

l ося

FBLE

NORMATION RERORT

MIESA/BOB, NE/5/R.

CHINA

LTEACANIDA

VLiSAMOR

WE MADA

CUR.

Панин

=

SANC

RID/AN

L/NASH/LT/L

REPORT

LX-1657

NO PROJECT (AMVIC

CSC1-316; 00717-64

ГОРОНИТ!

TETALI

тун нта. 1

WH/SA 7(1) WE 1(2), CIA RID 1

ОПАЛЕТУ РИНЕТІВ КСТТІОНА

201-(Ncne) 12-8-102/4

3/р

---

