# 104-10516-10348

## Page 1

104-10516-10348

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIF

2/144

?. L

:27392

DEC.21

09 2 63

DUEIG

ADAFRENCH ANERSSAS

QUOR, CUEAN MARCHANTS DID SUGAR EXPERIS

SE PURE CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEY HEM-8135 SUBECE EFFORTS

O5 CURAN GOVEPIMENT.

¡ATE COSEPCIAL BARTER WITH WEST

¿UROPEAL CONTRIES DOI DEC ES PADA MEXICO MEXICO CITY 2O DEC 63

iF? SECUREE WESTERN EUROPEAN EUS MESSIAN HIO: TRAVELS FREGUENTLY

TO CUBA WHERE, MIS COMPANY MAINTANIS CARiERCiAL INTERESTS.

10 ости. тае, Б5 ТН₴ аттіст

TOCS

rascesact

HOSTIE

DATE CST-SITE

giza can

---

## Page 2

INTO

LATION. REPORTI

:93 ₫32

35921

9393

BEZAIZAL

¡ME CUEAN GOVERIOT HAS RÉNELED NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE

PAYMENT CF DEDIS RESULTING FASH EXPROPRiATCUS MADE FROM CERTAIN

LESTERN EUROPEAN EUSINESS INTERESTS. THE CUZA MINISTRY OF FOREIGN

TRACE: IS TRYING TO INTERESTINEST GERMANE; LIALT AO FRANGE i8,

COMVERCIAL ACTNITIES SO THAT À FAVORAGLE ATROSFHERE WILL FREVAIL

AT THE TIME CE THE COMPLETIC CE THE SUCH CROP HARVEST US NARCH

ISSA, WHEN THE COREDITY IS MORALLY MARKETED. NECOTIATICNS FOR

REPARATICCIS ARE TAKINS FODY IN CURAS CATERS TO SELL TORNSCO AT:

DISCOUNT PRICES:

2

I ORDER OF PRIORITY, THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT. IS TRYING TO CATAIN*

SECRET

0l001:l.00

TELEGRAMN IN FORMATION REPORTLO

T0.00

---

## Page 3

SECRET

19488

MITANGE FOR SOGAR C A SERICHT CARTER DERLO

THE CURA SOYERIONEN

APELIS' A DUCER CROP:

сіст.

THE AVERACE

HER O FRICE CF8 CENTAFOND

le sunset sie propres

•FILLO CORENT.

TIELE DISSEM

-STATE ECCN CiNÇSO.

SECRET

---

