# 104-10192-10114

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10192-10114

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REPORT COVER SHEET

SECRET

JINiAVE

MEMORI NO

UFG-6755

25 February 1965

NO: NO

Henry 0.

RIPORTE OFFICER

Margaret

APPROVINO OF HEA

SLOMAN

N.TC

NANKALi/ sbd

рнол.

03

TiCK CH.

BACHOROUNO DATA AND COMMENTOI

TYPIC

05

SOURCE:

MOT-28 In EE-2567-datod 27 January 1965 and DD- 127:

nted in Februnor. bagod on luis PEREZ Romerö'S SW

#2 mailöd In

San Juan on 20 January and SW #3 mailed in San Juan on 15

February respectivoly, to Regino ubSInA,

3909 NW 19th AVO.,

Mirm1 85 PEREZ (pleaso protect) is to be

the skippor of the

25-foot craft mentionod in paragraph 2.

RID:

No index.

GROUP-I: EXCLUDED FROM

AUTOMATIC DONNGRIDING &

DECLASSIFICATION

OPTIONAL:

4 - Has (Pass copy to CINCLANT)

ib-10

= Cos/santo Domingoutpani

2

JMBARR (Pls pass CONKWESTFOR)

Panama City (Pls pass CINCSO)iu

i6-7

COUNTRY

1G6 10 SORY

APPA

Роди

0.80

1467

une

AREVIOUS.

fOrTION.

MPANTINO REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

EXTÃA-ACRNCY

Miami Reps:

State,

USOG,

Customs, Border Patrol,

FBI,

I&NS

ninete

NO. OF INCLOBURES

REFCRINCES

PADA

DOI

SECRET

NO, PAGES

1

180)

19-300-10

5/PV

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT .

"GRADIO DE SOURCE: A: Completer roila: a

B: Usualiy reliatie

•Di did usually celiahle

lo vineces of doubtrul honoris de hirally, regardless of their comparencel

F: Reiar lly cannot to pubird

ranian do a rest insured

taster murces).

APPARISAL OF CONTENT:

1: Confirmed by olhee independent and reliable sourcea

a propatty true di Provinlylevo, d Muttlul. Si protiably

1: Cannot to ludiril.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLAO DISSEN

COUNTRY CUbA

REFORT NO

L. SUBJECT

Equipment and Training Of Personnel pAlE OF RePr Fobruary 1065

of the Movimiento Donocrata Cristiana

(MDC) In Puorto RIco

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF

15 February 1965

INFO.

United Statos,

PLACE &

DATE ACO. (23 Fobruary 1965)

UFG-6735

INFORMATION. BOUNCE GRADING

SOURCES

A member. of a group of Cuban euiarea trainod in the tochaiques

01 Information

collection.

The group has provided useful

reporta since 1901.

1. As of about 15 February 1965, Inuroana Motista Falla, military

leador of the boviniento Democrata Cristiana MDC, Christian

Democratic Hovemont), was preparing a group of 10 mon in San

Puerto Rico,

for operations against Cuba.

JuaD, (Inu), vas In charge of military affaire and was sirlog

classe: 1n

navigation.

The MDC, has

one 25-foot boat equipped with twin 110-horsepower

enginos, which operates from Puarto Rico or the Dominican

Republic; one 21-loot beat uguipped with a 30-horsopover

Perking:engine and bolloved to be ownod by Manuol Padron;:.

2l-loot boat with a Chryslor enilne of untnown

3..

потвороц.

Batiste Falla sald he lost faith is the men he had 1n Miami,

but ho appears to be quite satisflod with the group in San

Juan.

CONFIDENTIAL

CÖNTROLLED DISSEM

GROUP 1

sochorded tram sutamantis

doungendong and

DISTRIBUTION

---

