‘04-10186-10339] (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Spe

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

(04 Statng within the meaning of the Bspionege Lawe, Tue
y manner (yan Unautbuteed pera te problbited by

‘This matertal eoataine taformance ating the Naticoal Defense of th
MUSE Gece TS ant TH the Seranimion of rernetion vf wniCD te

SECRET RETURN TO CIA
NO FOREIGN DISSEM Background Use Only
‘Do Not Reproduce

country Cuba REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00605-65

“suwect Alfredo PROENZA DATE DISTR. @ February 1965
: NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES

DATE
mo. 1964
_ pucta Washington, D.C.
pate acq, January 1965 Zi FIELD REPORT NO.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE.

source: A former Cutén IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service uati2 april 1964,

Headquarters Comments

The follawing report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information <rom the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individusis mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Alfregs? PROENZA was working for the Direccion General de
Inteligencia <Ceneral Directorate of Intelligence ~ DGI) as of
April 1964, In 1959 he was working in the Homicide Section
of the Depariment of Investigations and was later transferred
to the 18th Police Station.

. 2. PROENZA vas born about 1936, We is five feet nine inches
tall, weighs 260 pounds, and has a strong build. He has a fair
complexion, stort black hair, an oval face, and protruding teeth.l

Headquarters Comment z

.» The recorés of this Agency reveal no infermation on PROENZA.

YOCAPD FROCESSiY t

SECRET
NO FOREIGN D¥SSEM

mee

> [stare Tot Taeay Tua Tair NSA
ii = CINCLANT __CINCSO_# ISNS

(Note: Field Sinibenicn Indicated by “=

IS AZEC 1
SAM arta)
faus ce__iat

Caen

nies ReLeaapoa

(2), CI 4, RID VT

ft HAVE
py frovece Wavsa 8 qa).
