# 104-10186-10044

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10044

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ANFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

• CBC. BACE TIJ COA TOL, CLA URANTUAOS OT TATIALOS OL MAICA LA SAY MANDAS TO AN UDRULDOTINA DATICO IS prODIDATOR DE la

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEX

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT

Direccion General de Inteligencia

(DGI) Personnel Abroad

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

CS CI-316/02286-65

1 June 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

DATE OF

1964

INFO

PLACE 8

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ: (March. 1965)

FIELO REPORT NO.

ME' IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATIOM SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL, OF CONTENT IS TENTATVE.

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

1.

2.

The Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI) overseas field-station chief has no respon

sibility for physical or other security of the Cuban Embassy or

Mission, nor does any member of his staff.

The DGI would not use a regular foreign-service officer in the

field because he has not been cleared and briefed and is not,

therefore, considered qualified for intelligence tasks.

If a

foreign-service officer is briefed, it may be assumed that he

has been cleared and that he is thereafter considered a member

of the DGI (at least by the DGI).

On returning to Havana per-

manently, such a foreign-service officer briefed for a field

assignment normally would be sent to DGI Headquarters rather

than to the Minis..y of Foreign Relations.

5

2

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSES

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY

I NAWY

REPCINCLANT.

CINCSO # ISNS

¡Nora: field distribumon Indicated by ''#')

I AIR.

'INSA

I OCR

IFBI

INFORMATION REPORT

THỌ/ 10

WHC/ RE

11 WE/LADR

• 20-2

CI, R$A

WHC OS

15

RID/AN

BHC HEI

TOTALINHC 8 (2), WE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

INFORMATION REPORT

HECANAT

LX-2482

3IE BRITISH!

NP (AUNLG-1)

L/RASIKBRIN

CSCI-316/02286-

55

COOPOIMATIME

asino

7.04

3

1

---

