14-6900
104-10166-10058| (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(HTERNAL
USE ont

bia

Nas 610 “ie

an acien ser saherpai alice Rea EEA

4
i


A. DIN- 2931, 18 Deceaber 1962 ey :
B. WAVE Scho, 22 December LAL C7
@.. DIR gaudl, y January 102 : sae é ian

2,

Le Alter receipt of reference hus. was picked up by the Panaaa

tation of go December 1901 fer joint
+i hes prepared lf reports on indiyle 2 terest to the Station and

has provided coverage OP tas tivittee .

Av iateak Ot 7
cf the Cute: arose in Panama.

_B. | Upoe receipt of refercace B,
_Fequested coverage of the visit 0!
Tocunen airport at 10:4C P.Myon
cj M1820 PAK. She sane night. (un) arrange

o €. UA reception by approximately 35. Cuban exiles me
Ds, A 10 mimto interview on RPC television, broadcast 3 January 1962
ec. A 15 ‘aiaute taped interview on Radio Cadena Universe |

@..°A puotograph and ‘accarpanying article published in “la Batrelia de
Panena” ( clippings vere pouched laterally. to reference B addressees)
A photograph and ecconpanying article published in. “Critica” :

3.° The Btation ta avare cffiYLMY-1is duti the 1ccal AMEUD represen-
tative and foreces no conflict of interest or unecessary yp iigetion or efforts
“gt present. In coordination end with support of the Station(K ol has

‘organized whe five minute werk stoppage in: support of the 0 & B-an¢ action =
JC againet CASiRO. In addition, pubject bas written and arrac::4 placements of
‘both 0 ful.-page anda one-third page articles.in each of erverai Loca) newse .
popern. ‘frese actitizs will appear on 22 January and Wilt urge 0 A'S action

Against tbe cumunint goverrsent of Cubs. Cath : 5

al we Tocuman Airport
ena[firex-2 during the televietes
wand 4, Views of CONTR vith the reception, comuttes
S50 pre OOnts during Nim Silerview for Badlo Cadena

“Reins C1 1pp ings: 2
1. "Le Retralla de Param”, & vsnuary 1942
Ri. *Critica’, 5. Jemmary LyAe

Distributions
dquarters

v/atta
w/otta

a Mencnn teanore
Aeacey aut
eee err er
vam wnat Ost ATE



— we

7 = ae Se MAIL AL
7 fn TERSE/

acy bf flute |
aegis hig.
“a GQ LIM |

- | ie Bie
2 CK —
L§Mow4 FG
