# 104-10192-10134

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10192-10134

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Chief, VH D1u1s1o0

Chief of statioo, HAVE

16-15

Calel 01. Stat1on, (Sin Josg)

Opera flunal/PERUEN/Blackaall Of local JURE leader.

ACTION: Name trace per para 1

Attacbed l8 a letter recelurd by Ambassador TELLES

on 15 Deceader, frou an unknown source sho left saise at the

Babassy reception desk. bile there 1s apparently little.of

substantive intelligence interest therels, 1t 18 selt that

the tone of sane and the vislunary schene presented say be

of Interest to Beadquarters

and swAVi, particularly in vlow

of the personalitles lavolved.

160-15

1t-15.

salle thelsource of this letter is not know, the

Station suspects 11 1a danuel Antonio STRASBURGER sinco UHÿagrp-1

recently told the station that Ralaundo QUIRIELLO CaBt11100

(local J.U.R.I. representatlve) had inforued(RyBUMP-l that he

was belna blackaalled by STRASBURGER, a former businces partner.

STRASBURGER threatened QUIDIELLo uith a disclosure of his personal

letters which muld cabarass curbicio, oDYokE, and suBaRk.

Apparently QUIDIELLO did not yield to the threat hence the

letter to the abassador and at least one other copy which

EUROG-1 showed tO LEGIRD-l on 15 December.

1615

3.

Stattool sog Investigating STRASBURGER In TIEN Of abOre

actlvities and dia reported close

connections vith Consunists

Marclal AGUlLUS and AlvarO MNINDEZ Frauco.

4.

Headguarters: request traces on STRASBURGER.

PALlip K. MAYLOTT

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

16 Deceaber 1964

Attachmentes:

Letter. to Anbas38 dur TELLES

•Distributiong:

3 - Рн.

i1 - COS, DAVE 2 - PIleS

HRSA - 6763

S.-C-B-I-T

PIELD:

a3

(287-6-1

---

