“/t04-10103-10356). [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

: + SECRET
23
No: [8805]
Date; 30 December 1974
_ 24 Q
vesk]
=
[zercn
——,

‘We attach

. from FETCH?

ote Yours sincerely ah:

RETURN TO CIA
Sec Background Use Only
. . Do Not Reproduce



NUCLEAR RESEARCH LV CURE

oh
cast 197% andy ugcoriing
witered by tao BBC on

az omaceiUl use
papers haat
manganese in

4. Tho first national movt
Institute (IWIW) was peli ia
toa davana radio brocdcast
23 Sctober, suua 155 fapaers related to
of the atom wore srecented.. Jus of thes
écalt with "tho duentificction of droa and

, minezals by the wie of adutrons" and ansthar with revearch

aieal rroventies of bagasse to vive dt
ve tals tae
tha

st trata

in AMensasing the pb
solidity and durwility; in order to co:
bagasae was treated vith muslear radiation’
nowapaper, cuventud Kebelde, reported on ZA A
paper eas presested at she cage ceubin, on waject’ of
thermonuclear powerplants by HeRie FLEVTES, aad 92 ine.
Dupurtaent of Future veyelonaent of the Eta; # Consoliaaca
de la Flectriciiad. FLELTES oatinated 1980 as the
earilest possible date for wark to begin on such a plants

2... ths 23 Getobor broadcast, nade by Hamel duan SadDZb,
Gloised thet research into the use’of nuclear casrgy for
economic growth uuring the Pravisus five yours .as
proiueing th. necessary technics} and seisatific knowledges ©
Guban lesdera oxzacted to have miclew plants ceserating
electricity in vuba in the near xuture.  liore than 10 |
inatitutes, incluiing JAN, were involved in the works

A. Prensa Latiaa report
JBranas of 10 vecember qui i q
of Enersy and Bleetrifi ony Nikolai @ HATTS4G,
anung:ncing the crojact study ier sa “atozeloctric® vlint
in caba.  Lha plant would hava two reictors of +o) or.
500 megawatts. (the provosal for such a study was
preguaably discussed by thu : sian enersy Jologutic:
led by tue iinister of Lnargy i

%

S NEPOROZHMI, waico visited Cuba in the second wees or
Ustover ‘W74; it would-alzo aeen probable that the

project was iieluded in thy agenda’ deait wita ia the first
week of wecenber by the fifth Cuban/ooviot meetin: of the
Tonaiasivn for Zeorosle und Scientific/Teshnical collaboration
which was led on the nuscian side by Viadizir W WoVlKoV,
Vico-treaidunt of the Council of inistcra). .

4& Aa I have already resorted, a US professor of nucloar
physics, Jeroze STEFFEWS, is in Cubs at present, lecturing
as favana University. ‘ikere nuy, of coursd, be no
counection optween SZEFFENS nnd tio cuclear renedrch
elosady tacins place in vuba for taerson lear power plandse
However, when I net SFFEMS driofly on 7 wccesbar (oaving
alro.dy setvis wife aoge three days eurlier) he said be
woulda lixe to moet amsin at my offic or socially, as

there wero several matters corcorain: work in vuva wiich
we (tha mission) sinat find of iatercete &



me that she isd yiven STEFFEWS 27 ni
phone nugber a3 5e had asked Zor the.
ad rether aystericualy that whatever iv ras
wished to discuss was a mateer between th: tuo of us, aa
che 224 no wis% to be involved (t was anyway statieg
the obvious us she was leiviny tuo d jaterje 1 hope
te see STEFFEMS again and will rezort anytaing of
ntercsite

ons
oS,
Bo.
5

Since drafting the above I have spoken to Dorothy

3 on their hotel teleshone on 17 December. She sald
that they were leaving for Barbados on 18 Jeceaber end. 80
“were unable to accept the invitation I had given them.

She also remarked that the aatter her husband had wished *

to discuss had lost its urgency: it could wait until their
next visit in 1975. bod :

