|04-10071-10120); © n[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

iw i

RETURN To cia

: erates : “Do Not Re Use Only
pases) bees Do-Not Reproduce caecaennere :
iiiiidiiiamo MEER Eon sae isi Rime a,

() Geass 9 erat O Arvamia Gl sepner_

peepee eer eeneana en netrns nr apnynannig

ae conrivenriat © ae o URCLASSIFIED

alee eee sictl



airy ‘ 1
Litouecoab idk -

per CSH 43-26 DISPATCH NO. Conus

Via:
ance KAPOK
SECRET ! BaF.
CLASSIFICATION:
~
TO Chef, Ws 5 4 DATE 11 August 1955
Via Chief of station, (Rane i
FROM Chief of 2ase,(Milan> A“
(F22

SUBJECT Generac Operational.

secre: U.S, Embassy and Italian Petroleum Industry.

i. Following are VENTER's comments (22 July 1955), which he asserts reflect
runore circulating in "«nowledgeable circles" in Rome, on the alleged activities
of the Enbasey in the matter of Italian petroleum resources. &

. Tho groat majority of Italian petroleua companies, which until the IV
World| leun Congress opposed chl, are now presenting a united front with
“Enric§gMATTRI in his opposition to the exploitation of Italian petroleum deposits

by Anerican interests. This new situation is the result of confidential Or

mation and advic rnished to the Italian patroleum groups and to MATTED olf

by Reaigto DanilgNRILLO. GRILLO, vice-director general of political aff in

the Italien Foreigi Miniotry, is a former "squadrista” and pet of Galeasso »

through whose influence GRILLO reachud the upper echelons of the Foreign Ministry.
rae

3. hon it waa learned in Rome that hrs. ICE was to be inted Ambassador
- to Italy, a secret seoting was held in the homd/of Valerio J RGHESE to devise

wayo and moans of latching onto the new embassator, At this modting GRILLO and
threo othor "“gontiluomini" wore chosen to "get in with" the ambassador. These
individuals, da Rome's high society, are known ae "soamozzatori” (frog-men or

undorwator demolitions men),

4. UiliLLw has reportedly succooded in gaining good entree to the Ambassador
and takoo advantage of this to monitor her official activities. One result of
GHILLO's contact with the Ambaseador has beon, according to these sams rumors,
tha changs of tactics adopted by the Italian petroleun companies toward the

Azoricans,

5. Amorican petroleum intorests, allegedly being determined to absorb all
Italian pstrolouz production, already have their representatives sounding out.
Italian potroleun porsonalities with o proposition invol) Anorican purchase of
controlling stock in the Italien companies, (Gr. Uff » prosident of
API, Corco d'Italia, Rezo, is one of the inportant It. r havo received guch
© proposition, PLSSTTI discussed the mattor with/ Cam CO, high-ranking
fenctionary ef tho Italian Mfntstry of Industry. LO ‘MONA dmediately inforsed
MATYEI, end a conclave of Itglian patrolam industry directora was called fortinith.

Bert :

ce BDL

2261-13164

ciitaee O1-2BA

Tiong

SRRODUY

E SARIN


SECRST 22

Page 2

For reasons of eecrecy tha mooting took place in a locality in tha suburbs of
Roza oarly in July. fa
i

6. Ambassador LUCE's intonse activity in favor of the seven big petroleun
firms has slowed down since the {nil ofjefeLaa, but several of hor representatives
have bogun to canouver with thiaieGd ment. The attitude of Italian potro-

lee circles, inforned aa they obo of the alleged Asorican manouvering, is hostile.

x
Thoy know that the Amsricans financially backed the Right in the recent Sicilian
\
!

elections and fear that through wide uso of the doilar, the Americans will succeed
in dozolishing all Italian resistance. Histrust has reached such a point that a
few dayo ago, when an Amorican agent (of an oil company) asked for an appointment
with HATTEI, tho latter otated that he wao out of town and immediately took off
for the Aralfitana riviora. eee

SJEwa Ee Ger — ABET ADH) <0 Ey

fenes \Atrar nincsit was a-fanetgt Until 15. He began to work info the
Roaiotance after Jepteaber 8 of that year, boing careful at the same time to
“keep in® with the Germans, As part of the process hie wife becane tho mistross

of oo Avetsian cantatp who vas on important officer in the Gerpen SD. Whon At_.
becasa Gloar that Allied victory was certain, KATTsI paid five aifiion liro
(1944 rato of oxchange) to a DC partisan leader for the title of DC partisan

chiof ond the rank of gonoral of the gesistance in the CNL. MATTEL's appointment
wao 0.K." by Gen (fe and fol Ji IK. The latter is now MATTEL'o right-

hand man.

Prepared byt Montecchi

——~T" Lester A, simpson

