# 104-10234-10362

## Page 1

104-10234-10362

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

551 110507

file

8 July 2965

HEZSORAIUKM POR TIE RECORD

SUBJECT: Palephone Camersations with SerZIO P. MADIHASSITIA, 202-759374

DATE : 6 JaZy 1965

1. Subjaet called R. B. SAlIAGO i/C/YI/ID case arficer on 6 July ot

1500 hours to intons that be bad very urgent and important Intonation ba

vanted to discuss. Sub fact vas asted 11 be could alabarate or siva a clus

as to what 1t was all about and be replled ba could not discuse it over the

talephons.

sub joct vas then asked 11 ha could travel to lesbiaston, D. C.,

and ha replied hs could not make it for it least two days and added thet

be felt ths intoration ms too bot to let it go that long a sins. Subject

vas advised that ha vould be contactod by telephons later in the dey.

2. Bub fact vas contorted by phone at 1545 os 6 July, to Bak hin again

uhat sade his Infortation so ungaut and thas it invalved.

sus foct sold 1t

invalved ous Vletor ISPDiOSA tbo vas presently in len Ye's and thest

ESPINOSA varhad for tba Azancy and bad just retuiziad ITOs PUrIS and Spala

and bad to sse Bastona pras the Agency. Subject then gave te ISPINSA'S

eddross and telephons miber as 415 East S20d Street, Hew York CIty,

telepDone HA. I-TOTS, in case va visbed to contact ESPlitOSA. Subjoct.

also stated that ha bed elven ESPINOSA tea kashlngton Sterile nurber end

tDO MEIS OF SANTIAGO.

3. Eitfeet talephoned egalI at 1615 to INfOrS tOAt ESPIIOSA VAS Et

Lous at the nonest and vas plaming to go out and requested that sonsobe

sboule call his. subject was rald toat 1t vould be diffieuit to contact bla

at the nonent, but that se rould call hum in the sarning al T july. Alter

BIOCUESIAS ESPINOSA VIth WH/C/IC peracual, I vas airloed that subject 1e

a salootent and not to coutect his at all.

4. MAr. Jobs CASTORO, VI/C/OSs, vas contacted on the Borning of 7 July

1965, and resuasted to contact FBI llaison and brief then tbat ESPINOSA

was again tryles to contact the Agency and to please notify Burea ia deu

Yast of this fact. HI. Sen EPPICH adVLOed HI. CASTORO that tha Burezu

could not set as an interpedlary for the Agency.

•So The abora vas also discussed with I. Harry KHBOTSR, DC/WI/C/PI.

NO B. ALBOCIA

SECRET

Existst 8= 83720016

BASTINY REL

Minican-s

201-75-5374

---

