# 104-10320-10057

## Page 1

1104-10320-10057

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Catfis

(CES O1LY

X SOMENA

LEI COBERET

ORILL

9/2R4D 181

I0S3

RESUEST,

FROM

i7pal - claude

DDS/FIO

EXTENSON

120%

TO: LOBer designation, cosm number, ond

DATE

OPMCE2'3

15-1120

RECAVED

1.

e/LI/IS

3.

C/CI/IS/FOIA

5.

CI/ EXO

C/CI

SUSPENSE PATE

COMMENTS" (Nurser

do whom.

Suppuse

dropped his spiel

7.0. Pinda

This is a

curious

business:

Does D'Unger's first paragraph

of his 27 August 1975 letter

mean that someone in the

Agency supplied the material

he requested, or that he

obtained what he needed from

National Archives?

JLBender

7.

8.

9.

10.

C/CI/IS

112.

I IMPEr CL BY 0614173

PRIORITY HANDLING

FOIA REQUEST

4., SECRET

[XY CONFICENTIAL CO WERNER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Hier Unagning

August 27, 1075

ir. Robert Young

Freedom of Information Coordinator

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

RE: Ponding Apenal of Frcedom of

Information equest

July 8, 1975

Dear Mr. Young:

This is to inform you that the information originally requestea

Exom the Contral Intelligence Agency on June. 12, 1975, and subseguent

ly xe-requested on July 8, 1975, has boon secured from a source other

than the agency's normal channels:

Therefore, it would be appreciated if you would drop the above

referenced appeal from active consideration by the Information Review

Conmittee.

Sincercly,

CVD: bv

Suite 805 Guaranty Bank Ploza 1 512883-1545 / Corpus Christi, Texas 72101

62-2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

MTERNAL

NSE ONLY

SECRET

POTA Appeal - Claude V. P'Unger

HOM:

I. G. Bonn

Executive Secrotary, IRC

IC-18, Has.

TO: (ONsor desigation, room numbar, and

Wilding)

DATE

Mr. Nelson,

DDO

TUKU:

ML. Briggs, C/SS/DDO

2: MDS. MOS. (EBN-7)

Me. Julian

7C-24, Figs.

3.

4.

5.

FOR YARED

1/2-

ExTENSION

5226

DANCER S

NITIALS

Pesolive

21/50% 2800ly.

210 001101

2-5/6/15

7.

8.

9

10,

12.

TO:

PRIORITY HANDUING

** 3749

L7 COMFIDENTIAL

7RS 75-1973

DATE

22 July 1975

15 August 1975

Dra- a line ecross columa after soch comment

nitached is an FOTA Appeal wit.

a due date uf 15 lugust.

In accordance with the IRC pro-

codilures, the Chaiman has assigne

action for this appeal as follows:

Vic. William E. Nelson

Dosignated Action Menber (s)

should contict Ire within 48 hous

should thore be any objection to

the case assignment.

The CCC attorney assigned to

advise you or your Appeals Officer

regaiding this case is:

Mc. Enile Julian

Please advise the undersigned o

the name of ony Appeals Officer(s)

appointed to work on this case.

The Action Member or Appeals

Officer is requested to insure

that staff work is completed and

the case is ready for presentatio

(should such be required) at the

I August IRC meeting:

Att:

a/s

CC:

Ba, other Marber, IRC w/Att.

CeC (Lansdale) w/Att.

C/IRS w/o Att.

DDA Subject w/Att.

FOIA

REQUEST

INTERNAL

USE 01LY

UNCLASSIFIE!

---

## Page 4

13-00000

19

de: 15 4 50 PH "75

ARTILLER

• Anger Company

June 12, 1975

GOP-

reedom of Information

central Intelligence Agency

Vashington, D. C.

20505

Gentleten:

The following request is being made pursuant to the Freedon of Information Law

and its amendments (5 USC par 552/P.I. No. 93-502, 88 Stat. 1561) -

Would you please send me a list of all documents, exhibits and records compiled

ay the Central Intelligence Agency pertaining to the Assassination of President John

Fitzgerald Kennedy in 1963 or to the Warren Cormission. If in the event any of the

bove mentioned should be more than one page, please include the number of pages, as

sell as a title and reference. Also, please describe the status of classification,

L.e., confidential, secret, top secret, etc.

Your timely reply will be appreciated.

Sincerely,

VD: bv

Suite 1020 Guaranty Bank Plaza

4512083-1515, 1a Corpus Christi, Texas 78401 • 62-4

---

