“o4-40192- 10054) *

[ 2022 RELEASE UN
DER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |."
Bake WRN TO cla
greund U,
se Only

ieee Do Noi Reproduce

exter 03
7 fess} issu TEMPS COPY 1300 25 MO) - ae

adh, S/R NM ¢2P, AL? ‘A, yard
. e ‘)

re Coral

cbdt Sik: INFO opis PASH

CITE HAVA_TECS f

TST A BAVA 7088 fous yl. 33) °
8 “wasn 1gas " #IAL pT? = :
a} NIGHT 24 MCV pefanes TOLD SEO gory OPERATION UNITY CALLED

es SAD JUL20 HESTRE CALLED HIM, EARLY AFTERIOON “REQUESTING

che

MEET AT WHICH TIME MESTRE SAiD RAY GROUP. BACKING OUT OF

Cf s€caco£ IT BID NOT WANT PARTICIPATION OF ANY OTHER GROUP SINCE
worea TAKE FELL CREGIT FOR OP eo oe i

US: FLANANDEZ AND ‘OTHER MEMBERS “e30 NOVEMBER® cRouP DID

pT NOT SHOW FOR EET WITH ae NIGHT 2 NOV AND HE WAS BEEN mani
LocATE THEM. ais PEELS RAY GROUP AND 3B NOV® PLAYING | poustres
geip maY POSS TRY EXECUTE OP ON THEIR OM ALTHO acy BELIEVES, THEY
LAIN CORASE. Ae a

' an : :
3, Act SAID RAY GROUP HAS 258 POUNDS TNT AND NOT PLASTIC as

REF Be 4 ac

1
Ae Aes WISHES PROCEED WITH Piatt BD ted HIS GROUP (MAR)

: sr a

REPROCUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE 5

Fete OnKE NS PROMIITID. Copy Ne.

val


“pride 2snasez

HUA NOY

-———

LLP GF MRR, CA AND SDC, AND REGS VESTS OVS “AUTHOR ITAT [We

PSeP FoSTSNMENTS WOULD: BE AS FOLLS

A. SAR COMMANDCS Blow MAIN TERMINAL IN NARANIITO ‘WHICH
ST LESS POWER TO. ENTERE city MABANA, HARIANAQ, REGLA AND

SEASABACON
SV MEPLY FROM MATANZAS THEREBY NEGATING POSS UTILIZING ALTERMATE

COURSE i
DB. OA GROUP CREATE DIVERSIONARY SAB VARIOUS PLACES AND KNOCK
<7 PQUER LINES RECLA AREA WHICH FEED OIL REFINERIES «~~
G, MDC ENGAGE IN DIVERSIONARY SABe
Pe a TASKS INCLUDE ASSASSINATION ATTEMPTS AND SABs
sk 4 REEDS FOLL EGUIPH 100 LBS PLASTIC MITX CONTACT
ca Tetiay! ons. ANE Lip M3 WITH 3 CLIPS AND AMMO. —HeS'S TO BE
zat Fouts HAR 30) MRR 2p OA 28 AND *OC Qe
6 aapali-a AND OTHER *7RISNDLY® GROUPS APFLAR
SERIOUSLY PETEREINED CARRY OUT" ABOVE OPS YHICK STATION ENCOURAGING,
TH PARTIAL PLANS NICHT 2A WOW -

BEANT IME ro SAID HE GOING aueaD Ws

“SULCH INVOLVE BLOWING SEVERAL TRANSFORMERS AND at Least rr) cas
SAID HIS GROUP. EXPLODED BOMB OUTSIDE hesiathinpibl

OLINE STATIONS «

CITY HALL NICHT 23 NOV SHATTERING WINDOWS AND PMAKING BIC moist.

Te ast Eeteahhed LOYAL TO KUBARK AND WISHCS ‘FEEL aE SrALLy

STATION FLANS MORE DIRECT SUPPORT hi OPS 6 was
{ND OF HESSAGE

SPLONCS »

OMMLNTS PEQUESTEDS,

REGACCUC TION BF OTA PAN THE ISSUING OFFIC NS PROHIBITED ©

ioe vara a PS

SIMULTANTOUSLY ATTASK. DIEZNERO WHICH CONTROLS ELECTRIC
