104-10170-10064|

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

me

~

DISPATCH

Deputy Chief, WH/SA

or

pees
SECRET 1

JMWAVE.

Chief of Station

‘wanct,) TYPIC7AMSPELL/Opera tiona

VAMSPELL Tour of Latin America
TERR QUES AFR
REFS: A, WAVE 1448
HLBA 6911 peaneeinieuinne
BOGO 4332
QUIT 5867
HEGA 2900
SAGO 6577
SAGO 6595 t
LAPA 5550
HVCA 11,393

MRmOMmoad

1. SUNMARY, The Reference A. ANSPELL exhibit toured six
Latin American countries during a five-nonth period, February-June
1964. With the exception of Guayaquil and La Paz -- where excel—
lent results were achieved -- the tour was only moderately success-
ful, and must be classified a failure in Quito, Santiago and
Montevideo. According to ANSPELL, the total number of persons who
viewed the exhibit was 6,720, Another 2,792 persons’ reportedly
attended conferences at which the AMSPELL team gave talks on the
Reference A. exhibit and the.dangers.and weaknesses..of-Castro-
Communism. . Publicity was given the exhibit by 34 newspapers (47
items), 30 radio stations, and six television stations. AMSPELL
estimated the TV audience at 1,300,000. Sample clippings are
enclesed under separate cover. Reports from WH stations and the
WAVE debriefing of the AMSPELL team lead us to conclude that the
tour was a moderate success that could have been much better if
if had been better organized and if the ANSPELL team had had more
experience. (On balance) we believe the tour was well worth the
approximately $12,000.00 KUBARK paid out. We do not, however,
believe it should be repeated in the foreseeable future in view
of the relative inexperience shown by the AMSPELL team on the
recent tour and the many difficulties encountered in trying to
organize the exhibit in the various cities.

7 CONTINUED /

&
Attachments: U/SC Copy
A. AMSPELL Statistical Repoft =->
B, Mise, Press Clippings

ny 2/5

DISTRIBUTION:

DES ATEN SBR SO

UFGA-16,980
HEADQUARTERS PLE NABUGER

19-124-26-/3

URNTO CIA
petiground Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


Ell

“GLASSIFICATION GIEPATES SVWeOL ANG NUMBER
s E CRET [ere 36,980

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCS:

2, COLONBIA.
c.eea, Bogota, The AMSPELL team arrived in Bozota on 12 February
1964. but were unable to make contact with the local AXSPELL/AMBARB
contact until the next day. They were unable to get adequate advance
publicity and had-trouble finding space for the exhibit, About 200,
‘persons attended the cxhibit, and AMSPELL confergnces sere attended by
approximately 485° persons, HLBA-G6911rcported(GI$h -9's observations
on the local reaction to the tour, which he judged ‘to be indifforent.
The ANSPELL team freely. admitted to WAVE that the Bogota operation was
something less than successful, but ‘blamed the lack of advance prepara=
tions and the existence of an unfriendly press for their failure. It
should also be noted that the AMSPELL team was not on the best of terms
with some of thelocal Cubans, and this fact probably; had a good deal
to do with the poor showing.

b. Medellin. The showing in Medellin was better than in
Bogota, ‘The press was lukewarm but the director of the Caracol radio
station gave. them’considerable publicity, and they were able to hold
the exhibit in a*central spot in the city. About 400 persons visited
the exhibit over*a period of three days, and 850 persons attended con-
ferences given by the team, :

c. Cali, Tho team recoived “ood advance press play in Cali,
. which was perhaps one reason for the fact that the local Communist party
was also well prepared for their arrival, On the very first morning
of the exhibit, a large crowd of Communists tried to enter tne exhibit

with the obvious intention of starting trouble, and when they were oe

Jocked out began to throw rocks and "stinkbombs" into the exhibit hall.
The incident provided considerable publicity for. AMSPBLL, as reported

in BOGO 4332, A total of 100 persons attended the exhibit, The ANSPBLL
team claimed tnat the Communists were very strong in Cali and that work~
ing there was like swimming upstream, ,

3. ECUADOR.

a. Quito. The team arrived in Quito on 25 March, after spend-
ing several days in an unsuccessful attempt to obtain visas for Peru.
QUIT 5867 reported the AMSPELL team's personality clashes with the
jJocal AMBARBs. and the consequent poor performance by the ANSPELL team,
who complained of the absence of police protection, adequate facilities
for the exhibit, etc., and departed just two days later on the 27th.
One member remained in Bogota to hold conforences, attendod by 325.
persons, While not accepting the blame for this fiasco, the AMSPELL
team generally corroborated ttc above story in their debriefing by WAVE.
After such incidents as reported in QUIT 5867, we are reluctant to
recommend any future tours,

b. Guayaquil, The AMSPELL team considered Guayaquil their
most successful operation, an opinion seconded by Guayaquil base who
termed it a “resounding success," (See QUIT 5867 and HEGA 2900), The
exhibit received front page coverage in "El Universo” and "El Telegrafo’,
and they were given a half hour on a major TV station, An estimated
total of 1,200 persons visited the exhibit, and the team spoke before
40 members of a local group, Frente de Defensa Nacional, :

4, Santiago, Chile.

The AMSPELL team arrived in Santiago on S March to coincide
with the opening of the Latin American Youth Congress (LAYC), The
Santiago operation was a complete loss because Chilean customs authori-
ties would not release the exhibit during the congress and the AMSPELL
team was unable to obtain space of any kind to hold conferences due to
competition from the congress for space. (See SAGO 6577), The AMSPELL
team had been counting on a contact in the Catholic University

o facilitate their activities but tqld them that
the LAYC Was a failure from the Communist side and that’ the AMSPELL team
could contribute more by remaining quiet than. by actively propagandizing|

CONTINUED /

PAGE NO

2

T CLASSIFICATION

SOS sda use previous EDITION. SECRET io
ian connuen



‘Ciaweivication CISPATEN SYMBOL AND NUWETR

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH | SECRET UFGA 16,980

— 1

against (and thereby calling attention to) the congress, The ond result
gig thatthe AMSPELL team did nothing. ‘An amateurish plan to kidnap a
Cuban delegate. to tre LAYC as hostage for political prisoners in Cuba
Fas quickly ‘scotched by the Station. (See SAGO 6595),

5. La Paz, Bolivia
hase, Bolivia,

i.) Tho AMSPELL team arrived in La Paz on 17 March, and after soma
difficulty in obtaining space wore finally able to open the oxhibit
in Club La Paz’ on 21 March, As noted in LAPA 5550, exhibits and con=
ferences wore-held in various locations ‘in tlic city, with the closing
performance on’25 March at the Scala Theater hosted by the Venozuclan
ambassador, ©The exhibit received excellent coverage in all four of the
leading ‘La Paz: newspapers and the three largest radio stations carried
AMSPELL conferences, Despite the excellent publicity, a total of only
600 persons visited the exhibit in La Paz, According to AMSPELL, this
was due to Bolivian preoccupation with such things as a national day to
demand a passage to the sea for Bolivia which stopped all traffic and-
communication, i ‘ '

t

; co

Fe eeenes Aires. Tho AMSPELL team arrived in Buenos Aixvos on
27 March during Holy Week, In addition to the delay caused by Holy Week
Golebrations, ‘the team had difficulty finding space for the oxhibit,
With the help of the Chamber of Commerce, the. exhibit finally opened on.
6 April in Chamber of Commerce offices of Leandee Allem street, An
estimated 1,200 persons visited the exhibit during a four-day period,
and good publicity was.also obtained in the La Prensa and La Razon
Nang eaberS. | The ANSPRLL group also obtaincd 10 mingtes on Panorama
Mundial, Channel 7 TV, as part of a 30-minute Program on Cuba and the
overthrow of Goulart in Brazil, According to AMSPELL, the Panorama .
POUe consented aS kaving 500,000 viewers, ‘The ANSPELL tone also held
four conferences. before small groups of Rotariacs and university student:
which were attended by a total of 100 persone.

6. Argentina,
Atgent ina,

be fosario. /The AMSPELL team arrived in Rosario on 11 April
of fended {he oxhAbit on 15 April, after the custonaee difficulties
oF minding a site due to the lack Sf advance proparnt vend 1 tice local
chamber of commerce finally came through with an excellent site, the
viagerda Libertad", in the conter of town, A total ato e05 persons
visited the oxhibit during the three days it was open, focal news
papers (La Cronica, La Tribuna, La Capital) gave good publicity to the
rors ig te, Weal radio stations gave spot afnouncements of cng exhibit
but did mot give any additional publieity.

¢e Cordoba, The AMSPELL team made a hurried trip to Cordoba,
where they were able to show the exhibit to an estimated 600 persons
during a three-day stay, 20-23 April. The local chamber of commerce
Yas asain very helpful in arranging for space for the exhibit and obtain
ing local press publicity, Good press coverage was obtained in Los

Principios and Cordoba,

7. Montevideo, Uruguay, The AMSPELL team reported that Montevideo
was the performance of the entire tour, with only twenty persons
attending the exhibit, They arrived on 26 April and afte “unsuccess~
fully attempting to obtain a site in a contend location, felt obliged
to accept space in the Catholic Club, considered a center of reaction
by many Uruguayans and remote from the main thoroughfares, Despite
the poor reception and the lack of good local contacts, a fair amount
of publicity was obtained in the loca} press and the AMSPELL team had
@ one~hour show on the local TV channel 10,

7 CONTINUED /

PAGE NOL
a

~etaasieieation

_ i

389 S9a_ use previous kort. { SECRET



ae StASsIFIC KT

TCRESIFIEATION ‘DISPATEN ev UG ANG NUMBER

CONTINUATION OF j :
DISPATCH | SECRET UFGA 16,98U

w

84: Caracas, Venezuela, The AMSPELL team arrived in Caiacas on
9-Nay, having cut Brazil from the tour becauso of visa problems, Thoir
early arrival caught theiy local contacts unprepared and it was not
until 16 May that the exhib/t opened, Excellent support was provided
by station assets and widespread publicity was given to tho ovont,
Howover, the exhibit was located in-a relatively remote spot and only: 5
300. persons attended the exhibit, according to AMSPELL., (The Station
estimate was 400-500), Anothor 140 persons attonded ANSPELL con-
forences, The station report (HVCA-11393) which nas been corroborated
by the WAVE debriefing of the AMSPELL toam, describes the typical
experience of the AMSPELL-toam throughout the. tour with the exception
that local support was not always as effoctive as in Cnracas,

9, Enclosed under separate cover 1s an AMSPELL statistical summary
of the tour and press clippings from the countries visited, ‘

) cane aust K, REUTBMAN

£S COPY

TT PAGE NE

T
con
SIR" Sta use pnevious eorrion. BECRET i ee
