‘to4-107185-10722)

.,{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELUGENCE AGENCY

a acécting the Natioadd Defends of the Uris states whitin the messing of the Depleuare Lara Tite Sy
‘Menecaluion of Fevcatica-ef WRIA in a2y Santer to an ussutdorieed person Us proSiiad BY law.

_SECRET
NO FORSIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO, CS CI=316/0CS3K-646 ae

DATE DISTR, : August 19S¢_

‘NO: PAGES" :
REFERENCES = eat
= Rene enka fgrunntocia ">
; bate 0f.1984., _ : eee peed Background Use Only . ¢
piace g Washin See Bo Not Reproduce
| Histo Report Nos i ;

(DATS-ALG.
: =e, FINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

Se. = a
UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GZADINGS ARE DEF

SOURCEA former Cubaa-IS officer who served with the Cuban
. Intelligence ‘Service ‘uatil April. 1964.

Headquarters Comments:

‘The foliowing report is‘one of a ‘series containing personality
daformatioa. provided by the source and includes supplemental
inforsation from the records of this Agency}

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any
of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports
without first checking with this Agency.

Jose POSADA Torres, pseudoayn “Calixto," is the Cuban
Consul at Tampico, Mexico, He is an oizicer of the Dircecson ‘
General de Inteligencia (Generai Directorate of Intelligence >
DGI). POSADA was originally agszsged to Vera Cruz, but
was reassigned to Tanpico,!:2,3,4,

Headquarters Comments

1. When the source of the above information was queried
concerning proof of POSADA's association with the DGI
anc the Cuban Intelligence Service, source said he had
ny docunentary proof. However, he said he ‘knew of
POSADA's affiliation from his own trip to Mexico, from
observations. at the DGI Headquarters, and from general.
“Shoptalk, : i

i
i

2. A fairly >eliable source in a report dated 20 June 1962
provided sitive identification of Cuban G-2 agents
abroa: Included on the list for agents in Mexico was

+s one (int) POSADA, the Cuban Consul ia Vera Cruz. POSADA
was described as having been bora about 1936, five feet

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
NAVY Tar, Txsa
CINCSO = 'S

1 oa | ase,
REP _CINCLANT
“Note: Feld disibotion inceted by "=")

an
az

EN 15330, AX.

NO PROJECTIN

Eterm a!

: rar {gA 08) SE AriDe 2 LCL/RRA 19

Luda, i { u FT eSCI-316/0¢5S
' na/sn for ts Ipip/ay 7

narduaye 130 im it

SA 7 Gi), VE 1 (2), CI

sh

Tolar so. eee



2 5.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEX

+2. :
inches tall, having brown hair, a th: in brown hustache,
cing obese. ‘This same source in a Feport
a July 15. added the following” informatioa: POSADA also
has jurisciction over Isla Xuheres where (fau) MONES, an
2 time G-2 member, 48 stationed. © POSADA weighs about
180 pouncs, has a white complexion, and is very careless’
in his dress. ‘

and

A report from a usually reliable course detad 27 July 962),
stated that the Cuban Consul in Vera oe Xextco,’ ds
Jose Luis POSADA.

Information dated July 1962 révealed the, ‘following tnfornition
on Jose L. POSADA Torres: 7

Assigned to Vera Cruz in Decexber 1960, POSADA
is reportedly also engaged in' the. distribution "ot i:
propaganda and ‘the supervision of the Cuban’ espionage
service in Mexico. Ke has -been-“identified by a source
-of undetermined reliability as either a member of,
the Communist Party or a party adhéreat. He is knoun
to have been in contact. with General ‘Eeriberto Jira.
Corona, formex president of the Méxican Peace Movement;
a‘ Coanunist-front’ organization, POSADA reportedly .
spent two years training in Moscow.

It was regorted on 14 June 1963 that’ Jose Luis’ POSADA,
the Cuban Consul at Vera Cruz, Mexico, was departing
for Cuca on 28 June 1963.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

