‘Voa-1033-10013) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
= FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

11 May 1994

NOTE FOR THE FILE
SUBJECT: JFK Board Clearances

From: Ed Howeliij, OS:

All board members but Graff cleared. Graff may be
cleared by end of today.

Briefing of board members:

- CIA merely says yes or no
fo

- clearances are SI/TIK/GAMMA/

- office of Craig Livingston, White House could brief
the board.

- Chuck Easley in Livingston's office could do

briefing. He is OPM staffer assigned to
White House.

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


13-00000
JUN 6? "95 1154260 Pol

“CIT VISIT CERTIFICATION REQUEST
COLLATERAL CLEARANCES ooo SCI ACCESSES

a ,
Requester _ ic a cy ea *724.008€ org Bsase aah:
eye +5,
PERSON(S) TO BE CERTIFIED:
(Provide * for collateral requests only. Dates = Yr/Mo/Day)

e Sc hein eet ZE cx org

*Date of birth (22 -ae7—_ *Place of birth

By Do
*Clne date/org © _-Jun- 4s 7 sDésiorg ees

Name SSN Org

*Date of birth _u-__-_ ss * Place of birth

*Clnc date/org == o/s *DOBI/Org __-
Name SSN Org Be
*Date of birth _o- - ss *Place of birth

*Clnc date/org = ~/_ *DOBI/OrG Wom

CLNCS/ACCESSES REQUIRED:

Fees er es

Prensa pry Historic nO Yayiers Srp,
Date(s) of visit (From) QbSLAIS (0) SJUunNFee

Point of contact Sch Fal Pec Cee d&_ Phone ( )SS7- Pho.

Purpose of visit

COTR Agency business? Y N

Received at CIT by Date



13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

16 May 1994

NOTE FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: JFK Board Clearances

OS/Clearance Division (Edward) advised us today
(16 May) that Board member Henry Graff has been cleared.

This completes the clearances for Board members.

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

27 October 1994

NOTE FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: JFK Board/Security Clearances

1. On 27 October, I called Terry O'Connor, FBI to
provide him with the following information that he had
requested.

The CIA contact person for receiving clearances
on staff members of the JFK Board is:

r

‘Fim Bower, Chief /Clearance Division, OS :
(yeedg7e $Clectcace divide x ¥IC2O!
eore> Tél: 703-482-5620)

Sec Fax: 703- 893- 5235"

Uncl Fax: 703-356-6452)

Be eee Pacemareeeal
2. ‘Bower's! secure phone no: x4019%"(not passed to FBI).

3. O'Connor said that the FBI is processing clearances
for four members of the Board'staff. He also said that
David Marwell's clearances have been completed.

Johfi Pereira
cc: File

Harrelson
Boyd
C/ERG


10 February 1995
To: C/HRG

Subject: PC Support for Assassination Record Review. Board
(ARRB) Reviewers

Attached id] ‘note on INFOSEC procedures.
It appears that the ARRB reviewers will be able to take lap-
tops in and out of the building as long as security
requirement for handling classified diskettes and Classified
PCs are met. HRG will have to maintain the proper logs and
forms.

I propose we implement Situation #3 (board reviewers
can carry their own SECRET Laptops daily in & out of the
building). Establishing procedures for a LOG and the Form
4261 should not be a problem. We will need 2 or 3 HRG
staffers with media badges to fill out the form 4261 or to
escort the Board reviewers out of the building.


13-00000

CERTIFICATION GEB

David Marwell
Thomas J. Gunn

Thomas E. Samoluk

Sheryl Walter

1
I


13-00000)4 O6 95 TH 16:34 EWN 2a 724 0457 ARRB @ooz

Assassination. Records Review Board
600 E Street NW ® 2nd Floor = Washington, DC 20530

MEMORANDUM

April 6, 1995

TO: Barry Harrelson, CIA Historical Review
Group |

FROM: Tracy Shycoff, Administrative Officer

SUBJECT: Clearances Passed to CIA

Clearances were passed to the CIA Security Office, on Thursday, April 6, 1995 for the
following ARRB employees:

Mary McAuliffe, Supervisor Analyst SSN:

Michelle Seguin, Analyst SSN)

The clearances are at the Top Secret level and have been passed for a period of 1
year. |
|
Additionally, Jeremy Gunn (SSN_—————_—s) previously had his clearance passcd to
the CIA on January 18, 1995. If you need further information, please call me at the
number listed below,

Teleptione: (202) 724-0088 = Facsimile: (202) 724-0457



13-00000

eer FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
11 April 1995

NOTE FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: JFK Board/Security

1. On 11 April, I received a call from the Chief,
Domestic Programs Division, Office of Security Operations
((Bob McCants) on the status of the Board’s request for
Security Gertification of their facility at 600 “E” Street.

2. Room 2617 in the Board’s office is approved for
storing classified materials. The entire space controlled
by the Board will be approved once all of the Board’s staff
receives SCI clearances. Requests for SCI clearances should
be sent by the Board to HRG for forwarding to Director,
Office of Personnel Security.

3. eee from Bob's office did the security
survey at treet on 9 March 1995. ean be
reached through the Division’s front office (x43437) secure,
703-506-7437 open) .

John Pereira

cc: File ae
Harrelson
rre+

(Boyd)
C/HRG

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


13-00000

NOTE FOR:

FROM:
DATE:
SUBJECT:

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

05/01/95 04:33:53 PM
. JFK Board Staffer's Clearance

Office of Personnel Security, CIB called to pass clearance of following JFK Board Staffer:

Manuel Legaspi (need to check spelling)

ce:

a
|

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY



13-00000

this matter.

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW = 2nd Floor = Washington, DC 20530

June 14, 1995
Mr.John Pereira |
Chief, Historical Review Group
CIA |
1820 North Fort Myers Drive
Arlington, VA 22209 |

Tin
Dear Mr, Peréira: |

Thave attached a list of ARRB employees who have been granted Top Secret clearances
based on SBIs conducted by the OPM/OFI. The ARRB received guidance from the

Department of Justice on the adjudication of the cases.

As we have cl would like to request that the CIA take the necessary action to
grant appropriate SCI clearances to these employees.

If you require further information, please contact either me or Tracy Shycoff, our
Deputy Security Officer, at the number listed below. Thank you for your attention to

favid G. Marwell
Executive Director

Telephone: (202) 724-0088 = Facsimile: (202) 724-0457


13-00000

| 7
Mr. John Pereira
June 14, 1995 |
Page two are

|

!
Laura A. Denk 5/2/95
Philip D.Golrick 4/6/95
Manuel E. Legaspi 5/2/95

< Mary §. McAuliffe 4/6/95

Eric N. Scheinkopf | 6/6/95
Michelle M. Seguin 4/6/95
Robert]. Skwirot | 4 5/23/95
Eileen A. Sullivan | 4/6/95
KevinG.Tiernan | 4/6/95
Joan G. Zimmerman 4/6/95



13-00000 |
uo:

vu 9o rma uy.oL rAd ee eee a ARRD wives

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW = 2nd Floor = Washington, DC 20530

June 30, 1995

Mr. John Pereira

Chief, Historical Review Group
CIA

1820 North Fort Myers Drive
Arlington, VA 22209

oe
Dear Mr. perfisS!
|

I have attached the second list of ARRB employees who have been granted Top Secret
clearances based on SBIs conducted by the OPM/OFI. As with the others, the ARRB
received guidance from the Department of Justice on the adjudication of the cases.

As we have discussed, I would like to request that the CLA take the necessary action to
grant appropriate SCI clearances to these employees.

If you require further information, please contact either me or Tracy Shycoff, our
Deputy Security eae at the number listed below. Thank you for your attention to
this matter.
Sin ly,

G
avid G. Marwell
Executive Director

i
\
|
|
Telephone: (202) 724-0088 « Facsimile: (202) 724-0457


Mc. John Pereira
June 29, 1995
Page two

Employee

Christopher M. Barger
Joseph P. Freeman
Noelle C. Gray
Tammi S. Long
Charles:C. Rhodes
Dennis J. Quinn

Valerie M. Sails

13-0909... 5 FRI G9:51 FAN sud 624 U4d7

AnAD

Date of Adjudication

6/20/95
6/20/95
6/20/95
6/20/95
6/20/95
6/20/95

6/20/95

wows


13-00000

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor » Washington, DC 20530
° (202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

saxo

September 19, 1995

Mr. John Pereira

Chief, Historical Review Group
CIA

1820 North Fort Myers Drive
Arlington, VA 22209

Dear Mr, Petia: Go.

As we previously discussed, please initiate the necessary action to grant the appropriate
SCI clearances for Carolyn Carpenter, SSN Ms. Carpenter’s file was
reviewed by the Department of Justice Personnel Security Office. The DoJ
recommended granting a Top Secret clearance and postponing a decision on SCI
pending a CIA review for special exception to _ Directive 114, paragraph 5C, due to
foreign in-laws.

As you may recall from our conversation, Ms. Carpenter is a former CIA employee. I
would like to request that the investigation for her SCI clearance be given careful
consideration. It is extremely important to the Review Board that our clearances meet
the highest standards of the agencies with which we have dealings.

The Review Board has informed Ms. Carpenter that her employment is contingent upon
receiving the appropriate clearances. Therefore, I respectfully request that her case be
given top priority. If you need further information, please contact either me or Tracy
Shycoff, our Deputy Security Officer. Thank you for your assistance in this matter.

Si

'Y,

David G. Marwell
Executive Director

Boarp Memeers: John R. Tunheim, Chair - Henry F. Graff - Kermit L. Hall * William L. Joyce « Anna K, Nelson
Executive Director: David G. Marwell


13-00000

SS ‘FACSIMI i -FORM
CSI/HRG, ;
Aloom 404 “pate: —Z.
“Ames Bldg.

ENDING SECURE/FAX TELEPHONE NUMBER:

CECEIVING SECURE/PAX TELEPHONE NUMBER: 2 ~2 | “of Te

{UMBER OF PAGES (Induding Transmittal Form and Coyersheet, if applicable) o
ROM: va CSHLE [CST

i lame / Office / Extension ) :
SUBJECT: fila

CO: €ADDRESSEE/ ORGANIZATION / OFFICE/ EXTENSION )

10."

SPECJAL INSTRUCTIONS:

ol K G03 3 :

RELEASING OFFICIA! Ya Z ZL EL,
~~ (PRINTED, NAME) (SIGNATURE)

FOUO

FORM

vere 4RN3A :CLASSIFICA TION OF MATERIAL “PE ANSMIPTED:


| FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

20 September 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Clearance Division

FROM: John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group

\
SUBJECT: | Request from JFK Assassination
| Records Review Board

|

1. The JFK Assassination Records Review Board has

requested that CIA grant an SCI clearance to a former Agency
employee, Carolyn Carpenter. She is being considered for
employment with the Board. The request is attached.

| :
2. The Board's request notes that the Justice
Department raised a question about the existence of foreign
in-laws in Ms. Carpenter's case. °

3. David Marwell, the Board's Executive Director, is
interested in knowing when a determination is likely to be
made on this request. Please let me know what response we
should give to Mr. Marwell.

| John F.Pereira



13-00000°

26 October 1995

|
As of now the person who is handling clearances for the

JFK Board is:

|
|
| (Wo Garis , (Cart) schaloner 27
#4.0335°/

Ceurt talked with Marwell and set up procedures for

sending clearances requests directly to Curt.

°



WED 11.31 FAX toe 724 0457 ARKD

13-0000Q ; +9 95

| Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 - Fax: (702) 724-0457

|

\

i

l

|
MEMORAND UM,
|

{
November 29, 1995 |
i

|
TO: Barry Harrelson, CLA Historical Review

Group

FROM: ‘Tracy Shycof! f
Associate Director for Administration

and Deputy Security Ofticer

SUBJECT: Passing Clearance
|

I passed the clearance to the CIA Security Office on November 29, 1995, for the
tollowing ARRB employee for the purpose of reviewing documents related to the JFK
Assassination ee Collection Act held by the CLA:
Joseph P. Freeman SSN t DOB:

| Place of Birth Pittsburgh, PA

| Clearance Granted 6/20/95

The clearance is at the Top Secret level and has been passed for a period of 1 year. If

you need further information, please call me at the number listed above or contact
Mark in the CLA Security Office at 703-482-7330,

Hoan Memaras. Jon H |Iunneimn Chair Henry #. Gratt + Kertmt £. Hall + Willison L Joyce + Anna K. Nelson
Extcurive Omeciun: David G. Marwoll

Booz


13-00000

6 March 1996

/ Roger Martin) DCI/Security, called today and stated that

clearances were passed for Dennis Quinn, ?-he is

from the ARRB. He was granted TS clearance.


13-00000 JUL 18 "yD wt sari aber Hr F Hut #35

oy

18 July 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief/VAB/OS

1
I
‘,
i
ROM: | Garememl nets.
| “Public-Commtnication Branch, Public Affairs
1
'

Staff
SUBJECT: Headquarters Visitors -

Presidential JFK Assassination Records
| Review Board

1. On pale July 22, 1996, seven members of the
Presidential JFK Assassination Records Review Board
(see attached sheet) will be visiting the Agency
from 10:00 am-12:00pm along with two members of the
Center! for the Study of Intelligence.

2. They will arrive in three personal cars. They have
been directed to arrive at the VCC at 09:45 for badging and
parking directions. They will be met at the OHB lobby by
{ | Public Liaison Officer, Public Communications
Office. They will be given a tour of the first floor of the
OHB and the Exhibit Center and then taken to the EAA Store.
Following this they will depart.

3. FOR [SECURITY /ACCESS. Please notify the
Headquarters Receptionists and the Security Officers at the
Main Gate of the date and time of arrival. Please badge our
visitors with la Visitor Escort Required badges at the
Visitor Control Center and direct them to the Old
Headquarters Building lobby entrance and to VIP parking.

4. FOR |OFFICE OF MEDICAL SERVICES. Please add them
to your visitors list for 22 July 1996.

5. FOR PROTECTIVE PROGRAMS GROUP. Please inform the
Security Officers at the 123 Entrance that the cars will be
dropping off the group at the OHB lobby entrance and to
direct them to parking in the VIP lot.

|

6. If you have any further estions prior to the day
of the vizit, |please contact on $1744} on the
date of the visit, please direct any questions or problems
to the Public/Communications Branch on 482-0623.

| .



13-00000

06/10/97 ‘TUE 11:21 FAA 2uz|724 u457 ARKB

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

1
June 10, 1997 ;

To: CIA Security Office
From: Tracy Shycoff <<
Deputy Security Officer

Subject: Passing Clearances
|

Tam passing the clearance for the following ARRB employee for the purpose of
teviewing documents related to the JFK Assassination Records Collection Act held by
the CIA:

Douglas Horne SSN. | |) | Dons
| Place of Birth Oceanside,CA
Clearance Granted 8/22/1995

The cleararice is at the Top Secret level and is to be passed through September 20, 1997
to Mr. John Pereira, Chief of the CIA Historical Review Group at 703-613-1805. If you
need further information, please call me at the number listed above.

“ce: (Barbara Standley} CIA Historical Review Group

Boaro Memaers: John R. Tuntleim, Chair + Hency F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall * William L. Joyce - Anaa K. Nelson

| Execuvive Dinceron: David G. Marwell

quuuz


13-00000
UNCLASSIFIED
| 25 July 1997
MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson
FROM: | John F. Pereira
|
OFFICE: OCICSYHRG
SUBJECT: | 4Assassination Records Review Board Visitors
REFERENCE: | We alerted Eileen, Frank
|
|
i
{
| 25 July 1997
i
MEMORANDUM FOR: | John F. Pereira
FROM: | Roger Martin
|
OFFICE: | DCIAREA SECURITY OFFICER
SUBJECT: | 4 Assassination Records Review Board Visitors
REFERENCE: FyliRetention.
H CIB

Compartmented Information Branch

NOTE FOR: i
DATE: 07124197 03:50:32 PM
‘SUBJECT: 4 Assassination Records Review Board Visitors

The following ARRB employees. vat be meeting John Pereira (703)613-1805 on 28 Jul 97 and until 01 Aug 97.

Tracy Shycoff SSNI TS

Thomas Samoluk — SSN{ Ts

David Marwell SSN; TS, SI, TK, (GAMMA) and BYE
Thomas Gunn SSN;

TS, SI, TK, and BYE,

UNCLASSIFIED



13-00000

/ fl
Oy
Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor « Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 « Fax: (202) 724-0457

December 3, 1997

|
To: CIA Security Office

From: Tracy Shycoff «
Deputy tt ona! >

Subject: Passing Clearantes

Tam passing the clearance for'the following ARRB employee for the purpose of
reviewing documents related to the JFK Assassination Records Collection Act held by

the CIA: |
| ;
Charles C. Rhodes SSN ech
Place of Birth Schenectady, NY
Cléarance Granted 6/20/1995

The clearance is at the Top Secret level and is to be passed through September 30, 1998
to Mr. John Pereira, Ghief of the CIA Historical Review Group at 703-613-1805. Please
note that the CIA holds Mr. Rhodes’ SCI clearance if it is needed by Mr. Pereira. If you
need further information, pledse call me at the number listed above.

ce: (Barbara Standley} CIA Historical Review Group

Boanp Memaens: John R. Tunheim, Chair - Henry F. Graff - Kermit L. Hall » William L. Joyce » Anna K. Nelson
Executive Dinscroa: E Jeremy Gunn - Deputy Dinecton: Thomas E. Samoluk



13500000
7

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

{
|

|
ASSASSINATION BOARD
|

Address: 633 Indiana Ave., N.W.

Calvin Snowden (202) 708-5702

(Patti Postel, os x 3446!
| (703) (506-7446 (open)

Security White House Office of General Counsel
Marvin Crisloff

Clearances leqa: Ed Howell) os
|
|
|
|
|
Board Chairman - Jack Tunheim (612) 296-2351

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


13-00000

11 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: _ Jim Oliver

| C/HRG
| ie
FROM: Martha Ta, 0
| Chief/Rese:
\
SUBJECT: H Secrecy Agreements with Commission Members

1. At your request, PRD searched its files to-find information on how secrecy
agreements have been handled vis a vis members of commissions dealing with
intelligence-related matters. There have been three instances of PRD interface with such
commissions. The first was in 1994 when the Joint Security Commission requested a
PRB review on its report on Counterintelligence and Security Policies, Procedures and
Practices in the CIA in the aftermath of the Ames affair. There is no mention of
Commission membership or secrecy agreements in our files, and, in fact, the Commission
report was finally and properly re-reviewed by a different entity for official
declassification.

2. PRB was also asked to review the final report of the Commission on the Roles
and Capabilities of the US. Intelligence Commission (Brown Commission) in 1996.
Again there is no record of secrecy agreements with Board members in our files.
i}

3. Finally and most recently, the Rumsfeld Commission to Assess the Ballistic
Missile Threat to the United States was established in 1998, and its members signed
secrecy agreements. John Hedley, PRB Chair, spoke with the members in March,
explained pre-publication requirements and emphasized the Board’s and staff’s
willingness to provide guidance and prompt responses to Board members. Since that
time, four of the nine Commission members have submitted a total of 12 manuscripts for
review.



13-00000

SECRET

CL By: 6115436)
‘CL REASON: Section 1.5 C
DECL ON: X1

av FaM: HUM 4-82

TO: James R. biiver® DA
FROM: (Ramona G. DunisC- @ DCI
OFFICE: EXDIR STAFF

DATE: 09/14/98 10:59:51 AM

SUBJECT: Re: Status of JFK Issues/ARRB Meetings

Jim:
Thanks for the update which I will pass on to the EXDIR. Which Agency staffers are the Board considering
deposing? Are they considering deposing officials at other agencies?

On a related issue: On Friday, told me that we (White House, FBI, OIM) can’t find the
Board’s secrecy agreements. Were they located over the weekend?. If not, the EXDIR requests that OIM
obtain new signed agreements as soon as possible.

|

Thanks.

Original Text of James R. Oliver
Original Text of James R. Oliver

Dawn: Per our discussion fre morning, attached is Barry's status report on the JFK Board actions. Jim O.

Original Text of J. Barry Harrelson
Original Text of J. Barry Harrelson

Rv FRM: HUM 4-82

14 September 1998

SECRET



13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

From the Desk of R. Bruce Burke
Associate Deputy General Counsel

NOTE FOR: % ~|@pda

FROM: R. Bruce Burke
OFFICE: OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNSEL
DATE: 09/17/98 08:59:36 PM

SUBJECT: JFK Board Prepublication Review
Marne:
My comments in bold ( although my computer quit bolding in paragraph 5).

Bruce

ATTORNEY/CLIENT COMMUNICATIONS /

Ramona,

4 The following represents a summary of where we currently stand regarding the issue of

1 whether secrecy agreements were ever signed by the Assassination Records Review Board ("the

\ Board"), and offers options to address that issue. Thus far, CIA security officials have conducted

‘ diligent searches, both internally and externally (FBI, White House), to locate any secrecy

: agreements that members of the Board may have signed. Those searches have been unsuccessful -
to date, no secrecy agreements have been found. We now intend to search selected Agency ,
records systems to see if there exists any reference to, or indication of, particular secrecy

| agreements that the Board members may have signed. We also will attempt to locate any secrecy
agreements the Board staff signed to see if that leads us to any secrecy agreements the members
may have signed. At this point, however, the likelihood that these actions will bear fruit are not
good. Pee reeeaeeesdag ae eeeeeeeeeeaseasdes eee aerated

te a eeaite —_— ~

Our primary goal in this situation is to preserve our prepublication review rights with respect
to future writings of the Board members, in order to prevent the inadvertent release of classified
information (since it is unlikely that any member of the Board would knowingly reveal classified

information). {Before considering the options set forth below, it is worth noting that whatever ~
approach we take with the Board, we may encounter some hostility and resistance due to the
Board's unhappiness with our position concerning the final statement of cael that we-

submitted to lle Board. With that in mind, our options are: ~

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

I
1
| ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
I

we i

cc: t e DA
Sent on 17 September 1998 at 08:59:36 PM

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

| ATTORNEY/CLIENT COMMUNICATIONS
( ranea

meeting will ak our last opportunity to do so.f Otherwise we will-have to deal with each Board member and
Staffer indi ;, fat all. Before considering the options set forth below, itis worth noting that whatever

CONFIDENTIAL
j

NOTE FOR: (Ramona 6: Dunn-G9@ Del

FROM: ‘A. Bruce Burke

OFFICE: OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNSEL

DATE: 09/18/98 02:32:25 PM

SUBJECT: READ IMMEDIATELY: JFK Board Gcrecy AgreementsYssue
eiiceetaama a

The following represents a summary of where we currently stand regarding the issue of whether
secrecy agreements were ever signed by the Assassination Records Review Board (“the Board’), and
offers options to address that issue. Thus far, CIA security officials have conducted diligent searches, both
intemally and externally (FBI, White House), to locate any secrecy agreements that members of the
Board may have signed. Those searches have been unsuccessful - to date, no secrecy agreements have
been found. We are also searching selected Agency records systems to see if there exists any reference
to, or indication of, particular secrecy agreements that the Board members may have signed. In addition,
we are attempting to locate any secrecy agreements the Board staff signed to see if that leads us to any
secrecy agreements the members may have signed. At this point, however, the likelihood that these
actions will bear fruit are not good. Moreover, this effort has been complicated by the fact that, at the
outset, the FBI was given responsibility for the security clearance process relating to the Board.

Our primary goal in this situation is to preserve our prepublication review rights with respect to
future writings of the Board members and staffers, in order to prevent the inadvertent release of classified
information (since it is unlikely that any member of the Board or its staff would knowingly reveal classified
information). The last meeting of the Board will take place on 23 September, and the Board will be out of
business as of 1 October. If we wish to address the Board on this issue as a group, the 23 September

area We we take with the Board, we may encounter some hostility and resistance due to the Board's
unhappiness with our position conceming the final statement of compliance that we submitted to the
Board. With that in mind, our options are:

ee

CONFIDENTIAL


13-00000 |

CONFIDENTIAL

T
None of the above options guarantee success. However, | have discussed these options with

Dawn Eilenberger, and we believe that Option #__ is the best approach to take. OIM concurs. Please let
me know how we should proceed, since our last chance to deal with the Board as a group will be at their

23 September meeting.

ce:

ce: |
Sent on 18 September 1998 at 04:31:51 PM

l
|
CONFIDENTIAL
|
|


13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

OFFICE:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Jim:

| CONFIDENTIAL
i
|
i}
1
{
'
' cL py: (681401 7
1 ‘CL REASON: Section 1.5 C
| ECL ON: X1
oav FRM: COV 1-82

;
| 18 September 1998
|

James R. Oliver@DA

R. Bruce Burke @ DCI
Associate Deputy General Counsel

OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNSEL

READ IMMEDIATELY: JFK Board Secrecy Agreements Issue

| Note Appended Below
1
\
\

Please read and let me know which option you prefer in light of my rewrite.

Original Text of R. Bruce Burke

Bruce

Original Text of R. Bruce Burke

| From the Desk of R. Bruce Burke
Associate Deputy General Counsel

CONFIDENTIAL



13-00000

SECRET

ot By: 6115035)
(CL REASON: Section 1.5 C
ECL ON: X1

Dav FRM: COV 2-87

i
TO: R. Bruce Burke@DCI

FROM: @ DCI
OFFICE: EXDIR STAFF
DATE: 09/21/98 05:44:25 PM

SUBJECT: [ENFK Board Secrecy Agreements Issue

i
Bruce:
The EXDIR concurs with t the OGC recommended option (#5) , provided that the letter is low-key and
stresses that the pre-publication review “obligation” is standard operating procedure. Additionally, he
requests the opportunity to view the letter in draft. Thanks.

Ramona

T
(Option 5. In lieu of a security exit briefing, send each Board member and staffer a letter which expressly
mentions that they have an obligation to submit for prepublication review any future writings they plan to
publish (related to their work as Board members or staffers) as part of their obligation to protect classified
information. This approach would make it more inconvenient for the Board to probe for the source of this
obligation (which we would be unable to produce since we have not found any signed secrecy
agreements). Again, we Blatt the Board. Board members and staffers sign nothing.)

ce: Dawn R. Ellenberger@ OCI Valerie O. Paiterson/@ DCI, Robert J. eae ee >

DA, Edmund Cohen@DA’

| oe Le ind@DA, James R. Oliver@DA, J. Barry
Harrelson@DCI. DA, y@DA
Sent on 21 September 1998 at 05:44::

SECRET



13-0000 >.11.1988 2:41PM

No. 32 P.2

= (print full name), hereby agree to accept as a prior condition of my

employed by, or otherwise retained to perform vervices for, the Central Intelligence Agency, or for staff elements of the
Director of Central Intelligence (hereinafter collectively referred to as the ‘Central Intelligence Agency’), the obligations
contained in this agreement. \

2. 1 understand that in the course of my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency I may be
\given access to information or material thet is classified or is in the process of a classification determination in accordance
\lwith the standards set forth in Executive Order 12958 as amended or superseded, or other applicable Executive order, that if
‘Bisblosed in an unauthorized manner would jeopardize intelligence activities of the United States Government. {accept that by
‘being granted access to such information or material I will be placed in a position of special confidence and trust and become
jpbligeted to protect the information and/or material from unauthorized disclosure.

3 Tn consideration for being employed or otherwise retained to provide services to the ConwalTneligence Agency, I
hereby agree that I will never disclose in any form or-any.ménnét,.to any person not authorized by the Central Intelligence |
Agency to receive it, any information or material in either of thefollowing categories: \

a. information or material received or obtained in the course of my employment or other service. with the Central |
Intelligence Agency that is marited as classified or that knowis classified; \

b information or material received of obtsined in i eqérse ff my employment or other service with the Central
Intelligence Agency that T know is in the Process\of aesaiioation determination.

4. L undesstand that it is my responsiblity to consult ‘with appropriate Management authorities in the component or
[Directorate that employs me or has retained my services, or with, the Central Intelligence Agency’s Publications Review Board
i€T am no longer employed by af associated with the Agency, in order to ensure that I know 1) whether information or material

eae oe set forth in paragraph 3 is
considered by the Agesoy-has authorized to
receive such in} ion & \
S. As e further condition oft nes Agency, I here- ;
lby agree to submit for re bi aipeamiery fe q

fright be based upon either Sith e p R osing
ly prepared for public clos ; b b onli Agency or
A bt autho e access to the categories.

identify such

obi
eee bet upon [ogé the information

Se Wille =
ial chat may acquire in equyse of my fiment or other e with

pet op cy men ae of meio he ew
the property of the Uni | Statés’Government,unleds dh until otherwise’ determined by an appropriate official or final ruling
of @ court of low. I agree to suiender anything constituting, comtaining of reflecting such information or rasterial upon demiand
by an appropriate official of the Central Intelligence Agency, or upon the conclusion of my employment or other service with
the Central Intelligence Agency. i

8. T agree to notify the Cental Inelligence Agency immediately in the event that ! am called upon by judicial er con-
gressional authorities, or by specially established investigetory bodies of the executive branch, to testify about, or provide, in-
formation or material that I have agreed herein not to disclose. In any communication with any such authority or body, I shall
observe all applicable rules or procedures for ensuring that such information and/or material is handled in a secure manner.

9. T understand that nothing contained in this agreement prohibits me from reporting intelligence activities that I con-
sider to be unlawful or improper directly to the Intelligence Oversight Board established by the President, or to any successor |“
body that the President may establish, or to the Select Comminee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives or the Senate.
I recognize that there are also established procedures for bringing such matters to the attention of the Agency's Inspector
General or to the Direotor of Central Intelligence. Tn making any report referred to in this paragraph, I will observe all applicable

les or procedures for ensuring the secure handling of any information or material thar may be involved, I understand thar

\ such information or material continues to be subject to this agreement for all other purposes and that such reporting does
hot constitute public disclogsuns or declassification of that information or material.

= 0p. , CSLRTEPRENOUs =| —

|
t


13-00000 : :
SEP.11.1998 2:49PM NO.@32__P.3

BOF taterstans that any breach of this agreement by me may result in the Central Intelligence Agency taking admin-
“~iStrative action against me, which can include temporary loss of pay or termination of my employment or other service with
the Central Intelligence Agency. T also understand that if I violate the terms of this agreement, the United States Government
may institute a civil proceeding te seek compensatory damages or other appropriate relief. Further, I understand that the
disclosure of information that I have agreed herein not to disclose can, in some circumstances, constitute a criminal offense.

Al. Tunderstand that-the United States Government may, prior to.any unauthorized disclosure that is threatened by me,
choose to apply to any appropriate court for an order enforcing this agreement. Nothing in this agreement constitutes a waiver
on the part of the United States to institute a civil or criminal proceeding for any breach of this agreement by me. Nothing in
this agreement constitutes a wavier on my part of any possible defenses I may have in connection with either civil or criminal
proceedings that may be brought against me.

12, In addition to any other remedy to which the United States Government may become entitled, I hereby assign to the
United States Government all rights, title, and interest in any and all royalties, remunerations, and emoluments that have resulted
or will result or may result from any divulgence, publication or revelation of information or material by me that is carried out
in‘breach of paragraph 5 of this agreement or that involves information or material prohibited from disclosure by the terms of
this agreement.

\ 13. T understand and accept that, unless Tam provided a urinen release from this agreement or any portion of it by the
i) Director of Central Intelligence or the Director's representative, all the conditions and obligations accepted by mein this agree-
ment apply both during my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency, and at all times thereafter.
“14, understand that the purpose of this agreement is to implement the responsibilities of the Director of Central Intel-
ligence, particularly the tesponsibility to protect intelligence sources and methods, as specified in the National Security Act of
1947, as amended,
bs 15. These restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede conflict with or otherwise alter the employee obligations
fights or liabilities created by Executive Order 12958; section, 7211 of title 5, United States Code (governing disclosures to
Congress); section 1034 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing
~ disclosure.to Congress. by ‘members .of the Military); section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code, as amended by the
. Whistleblower Protection Act (governing ‘disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); the
"Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (SO U.S.C. 421 et seq.) (governing disclosures that could expose confidential
Government agents), and the statutes ‘which protect against disclosure that may compromise the-national security, including
section 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities. Act of 1950
(50 U.S.C. section 783(b)). The definitions, requirameiits, obligations, rights, sanctions and liabilities created by said Executive

“Order and listed statutes are incorporated into this Agreement and are controlling.
16. T understand that nothing in this agreement limits or otherwise affects any provision of criminal or other law that

may be applicable to the unauthorized disclosure of classified information, including the espionage laws (sections 793, 794 and
798. of Title 18, United States Code) and the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (P.L. 97-200; 50 U.S.C., 421 er
3eq.).

17, Each of the numbered paragraphs and lettered subparagraphs of this agreement is severable. If a court should find |
any of the paragraphs or subparagraphs of this agreement to be unenforceable, I understand that all remaining provisions will
continue in full force.

* 18. I make this agreement in good faith, and with no purpose of evasion.
19. This agreement shall be interpreted under and in conformance with the law of the United States.

| Signature

| Date
‘The execution of this agreement was witnessed by the undersigned, who accepted it on behalf of the Central Intelligence
Agency as a prior condition of the eraployment or other service of the person whose Signature appears above.
| WITNESS AND ACCEPTANCE: |
| \
Signature :

