# 104-10185-10158

## Page 1

104-10185-10158

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELUGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

courner Cuba:

"AsPORT NO.

CS CI-S/781, 855

WARE SaUl GONZALEZ (pseudonym "DENIS") DATE DISTR

16 June 1904

NO. PAÖKS

REFERENICAS

DATE OP: 1065 and 1088

INTO.

Washington: D. C

DATE ACO: MAY IRRE

HELD

REPORT NO.

TASS' M UNTYALUARIO

SOURO

A former Cuban IS alficer: who served with the Cubin

: Intelligence Service untll Aprul 196.4,

Headquarters. Comment. The following report is one of a series

containing personality information provided by the source and

Includes supplemental information from the records cl this Agoncy.

1.

SaUL GONZALEZ, pseudonym "DENIS", le an officer in the Illegal

Department of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI • General.

Directorate of Intelligence). In March 1984 he made a trip to.

France and Roce and while In Ronie met Roberto Antonio MORO

Perer.

At MORO's request GONZALEZ carried a gift back to MORO'S

girl frlend in Habana.

GONZALEZ returned to Habana. In late March

or early April 1084. In December 1983 GONZALEZ was in Habans, Lit

It la belleved that he had made a previous trip to Europe..

:2.

GONZALEZ, who was born in approximately 1836, 1s gIx leet tall,

180 pounds, has a dark: complexion, black hair, and wears tinted

Bua 8149568. He realoes at 1420 15th Street, Apartment 3, Vedado,

Habana, where his telephone number to 3-3375.

Headquarters Comment

1. The recorde af this Agency reveal no pertinent identlilable

• Information

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- REP CONCLANT

MINTORNATION REBO AT

oce

12 Ju

X-1485, 11-220

NO PROJECT

CS0-1/TAL 85%

go+4149 921196

---

