.104-10165-10077,

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 i:

a

MATERIAL REVIEVED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY 4

HOUSE SELECT COSEIITTEF OX ASSASSINATIONS STAFF X22322S7

FILE tiTiE/wusee/vouue:_ CHAYES, ABRL] ; i :

DoD -fFplL=

INCLUSIVE DATES:,
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: Ded

- ROOMS,

DELETIONS, IF ANY:,

Date qe
RECEIVED
te
<7

RKO DOCUNEXTS NAY BE COPIED OR’ RENOVED FRO THIS FILE


POSPOETUL os

“£-19-92-'

POF. 42E5M CEAYES

Subject 1s vith the folloving: i
4000723 - Esrvard Lew School, Cenbridze, WA.
w

" : i
b i }
; i
i : P
: 4
£ abs



DCD- 458/78 {
19 April 1978

MEMORA‘SUM FOR: DDO/ISS/IP/EIS }

FROM : Ruth Ellifé |
DCD/FI0/PAO "

SUBJECT : House Select Committee on Assassinations

Request (OLC 78-0986/1}

The following material is forwarded in response to
subject request:

E a. DCD file A-19-91-59 on Abram Chayes (on loan).
H b. Documents concerning Monica Kramer and Rita Naman.
{ (Please excuse the poor quality of some of this
rf material, it was inpossible to get a clear
i reproduction from our microfilm.)
i
i uth ELifft
Attachnents a/s : :
RELLIFF:¥fc
Distribution
© - Addressee :
1 - DCD Chrono
1 - Staff A
- 3 - RELff .
fe aidhceahahte E2 IMPDET CL BY 386090
WARING NOTICE

INTELLIGENCE SOR
SOD UETHODS ENCANED

CONFE

ENTIAL

AND Wi

ro
y

)


gravee

19-91-59

PES-268-77
31 August 1977

C-0-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

Bosten Field Office
', New York Field Office

San Francisco Field Office
Syracuse Field Office
Washingtca Field Office

Acting Chief, USSR-EE Collecticn

Case 64574 - USSR External Policy - Pugwash Confe'
Mumich, Germany, August 1977

2. Enclosed you will find a list of attendees (Enclesure
to the Pugeash Conference held in iaumich, Gerzany, in Aucist
a set of questions (Enclosure 5) prepared by the ORPA ana’
at our request. Since the original list of attendees ccntained
only the last nane and first jnitial of each US particip=t, we
had to rake sone educated guesses as to the true identities of
many of them. As a result, do net be surprised if sone qezstion
why we felt they had attended. In many cases, however, there wes
no question as to the true £_the .

A)
and

their previous.
‘extra extort to write even nore
We feel that the enclosed questicns are the best we have sent out

to date.

___3._ Responsive reporting should cite the current,
[| Ke look forward to receiving your responses. , +

Athinl Cul
ed daw [Bake
+ J, THOMAS A. WEBBER

ie
Enclosures: As stated above
WPBlake/bjp

(C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L R a ay
6:

t
:

aetna



|

ENCLOSURE A

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

4199159

Harvard University

1 Djerassi —
Suntan A 49345

eS tniversity A4¢G3o ?

Berard T. Feld

Asga7

Harvard iniversity
aan University
Jack P. Ruina A 99072
: cr
Herbert Scoville

an, Va.

Katia Stay of sciences Ap235hb

AL30Y

Al1ayacs

AIS73 0

BEE ces 5 99990

Stony Brook, New York

_C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L,

marigtiiniinneden:

cenetindieiany semaine

oe
‘
7



7 CONFIDENTIAL
oa: : nai (when filled ia)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS

= = T [eonsances
aac npalopepe bebdondand
| PERE

Wiles fispaieiele
al Blo! S| i 6lalsizia! + folgizjale

SuBsECT and THER
Your Papers by Soviet Scientists on Proliferation of Nuclear Heavens,
Disarmament, the Complete General Ban of Nuclear Tests, and European

7 : Security

i (ussR)
. Couract “Nowe Tite, Orem tat, Adarener
Prof. Abram Chayes
Harvard Law School

: Canbridge, HA Tagan aaTiow ne.
Se oa
i Docunentary
| -[igetsounte (ose, Yale, Grgmteron, Actress Teivibuat wee
Sag awEATION NO”
é
+ werses ov eotteetio pene od Eecnances COD
i TNTeowiew I Tae eeecey i Trcexeranze 1 To. cowmencuac
i sae ence fice [ete [seas Seriew [PERE ESAP FERS COMENTE
1 [omecreo ro : 7
x Twebbe: | Eph. anpins
3 Fred coment K . :

paw Sooners ocibee 763/ .
faeree- MaAcER -

Scare [zHe(DPe/RSE/Ser YEH

Geewd Sucuas OS SFA

Certhess
Mest epee inet 6638 aie

ay

“s]_Leounrae 9 Fuc
Fy Eig isis iin A
CONFIDENTIAL Tissrrasmas) wean
1 3
pawns enters aie ee er eee tenner nee
:
i $
7 aaa) !
ca mee
7 '


Le COH-PI-D-ES= =A

"Domestic Collection Division
Foreign Intelligence Information Report -

parte ctenyipetnnine es

(©0-B~321/26659-76
i

. Sept.. 23,, 1976

_Proliferazion_ of Nuclear td ; an

/Bigarnsrent, the Conplete General NO. Pabes 1 Ha
DeD Case: €: 574

C-JT-6-501;

ANSI la SUMMON

iy Ee
—— — f+ wai lable. 40-CRS- Central _Librartea Division, Document Services Branch
are four papers prese=ted by Soviet scientists at the 26ch Pugwash
.-Conference.oo-Disameent,. Security_and Developaent, MuhJhansen, German
/ Democratic Republic, = 26-31: ‘Augzst 1976. The papers are as follows: *
‘2 1).."0n Complete! and: General Ban ‘of! Suclear Yezpon Tests” by H
Seratte of the TS5t Institut the USA and Canada; (2)"Inple-
ft f. the: Conference on Security and Cooperation

“ Devope ‘by Professor ¥.G. sty, Yoscow State Institute of

International Relations (MGIMO); (3) “Concerning the Question of Atomic

Power Energetics and Proliferation of taclear Weapons” ty Academician

V.S. Enelyanov; and (4) "Pugwash and Development” by Academician V.A. :
Po beabeastectanenesieree

Pogethardt irdt = jccaeatadaeeal

id

seu

WARNING NOTICE-SEXSTIVE :
INTELUGENCE SOURCES AND fa
METHODS INVOLVED _- C-O-1-F-1-D-E-NAT-L-AL =

ass Acront 12 COWAMLLED ay peta 849.

tag Ossscerinavion an ust or fone FOMEIGe SATELLIGENCE InFCEMATION 16

4.



.. . CONFIDENTIAL

~T: (when filled in) aie Gf - 49

"PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS

Gueseer ano ahem,

Reports of the Four Working Groups at the 26th Pugvash Conference

“(USSE/ INTERNATIONAL)

CONTACT Have, Tale, Orpen taren AdaravaT
Prof, Abram Chayes

Harvard Law School
Cambridge, MA

SOURCE Nowe, Valle, Ongor saan, Address]

Documentary

[sue SOURCE (Name, Tile, Crpanaction, Address

Sircee or coutecTies eke Excnances Cou.

TD eteeviee
armen Docuwent OTHES “Seeedly below)

GRE [EET ICS [EVR i zesn OVFICEA

Br pieaTemaL Ta antiece

TEBt
Town SsoDERS oci/see
sores, MATHER sore (ea(mef

Wee tam

Grew Buc OS® SF
Ceahin
Se (Ine (ove/tmT 6632 |

“CONFIDENTIAL

ikon a SC CN AS I A A

_.

ro
ee



Shins bal a bata

te

C~O-N-P-L-D-E-N~1-I-A-L

oo “ Domestic Collection Division

Foreign Intelligence Information Report

DIRECTORATE OF
‘OPERATIONS
* i -
COUNTRY USSR/International DCD REPORT NO, 00-B-321/26514-76 f
SUBJECT Reports of the Four Working Groups DATE-DISTR. Sept. 23, 1976
at the 26th Pugwash Conference
NO. PAGES 1
REFERENCES DCD Case: 64,574
C-JT-6-50174

DATE OF INFO. August 1976

THIS_15_UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE Documentary

[Available in CRS Central Libraries Division, Document Services Branch :
are copies of the reports of the four Working Groups at the 26th Pugwash

‘ Conference on Disarmament, Security and Development held at Mulhausen,

og German Democratic. Republic, 26-31 August 1976. The subjects discussed

: dn each of the Working Group reports are as follows: "Problems of
Limiting and Reducing Strategic Nuclear Armaments and Other Weapons of
Mass Destruction,” "Controlling the Spread of Nuclear Armaments,”
“European Security and Co-operation Issues," and "Development and t
Security" - UNCLASSIFTED.) : :

- ad - |

aNwaa
aNeee

WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE
INTELUGENCE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLVED. Geerateer etree

IME DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THE FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE INFORUATION IN, TH15 AEFORT 15 CONTROLLED BY OCIO 1/7.

ear:


r
i
f
i
i
4
|
i
if

a) SECRET ~ aloes :

Purposes and Activities: Interests include the improvenext
of inter-cultural and inrer-racial relations; the protection of civil
liberties; the prevention and treatment of enotional disturbances, etc.

channeled the following amounts of CIA money to

CIA project

1961 - $15,000 ‘to Anerican Society for African Culture
(sac)

1962 — $10,000 to African-American Institute (AAI)

1963 - §15,00C to Pan Aserican Foundation (PAF). (This repre-
sented a part of the cotal budget for PAF in 1963. fir-
tually all PAF funds in 1963 were used for grants to in~
dividual recipieats of Agency operational interest. Yo
ouestic organizations received any of the funds.)

1965 - $10,000 to International Development Foundation (IDF)

Korman Fund gave its oun roney to the following CIA projects:

1962 — $7,500 to American Sactety for African Culture (A¥SAC)

+ 1962 — $3,000 tc African Research Foundation

1962 - $3,100 to U.S. Rational Student Association (USNSA)

We bold copies of Schedule of Ordinary Grants of the

for 1962 and 196: These doctmeats confirm the figures and the recipients

cited in the Mo CIA funds vere given for other than
the four grants listed above.

i
:

eo banat

ae



i}

SECRET ities ’
20 FEB N76

i
|

BEOLAGN FOR. Sapety virector for Opt ratioas

PEFURESCE 2 Sev York Tiros Article

:
|
Befereace revorte that the Presizect of ef
satd Crst Se was approscact by 2 ‘syscerious zeatlenan”
I
t
|
|

froa tia CIA Ga 1153 of 1754 ant 20% Lo pace ebext £15
woot fends te thal det we tera | |
wao trea Cueirasa of tic Jeert. Cis ifles revesi crag the
(orerty the) wee ceuer asad to pass CLA fence

tet, —=Sss—=~<“~*~‘“‘~*~*SCCSCSCSCS*~*d sp Boe Sa aKeorence. Kituced Is

tha record of 21a fuads pacesd throusa tel. -..-.—— -——. —__| ead
beasfide greats asia by tis fests to CIA profecta, It 18 sored that is
1961. the[ Cian
for african wcliare (asSaz).
Africas serivities wits re

0) of CIA funte te tae Aperizaa Society
se ibty confused this fuasiag for

oy
et.
2. Te ds true as reported fa the article aad ooareed to ac axceettoe{
eftel—~—~—~—SCiOS Cat exported & single agorty 3:O-*
gras tn the 18ke.

{a program wae tha
4 AgenereontreLied 20n-profic erzastaation active
intee Latia caerict isbee fieli. cla's uae of tal
te feet the! tersiaated in 1554 veer use ef & wae exposed
fa Consseasio=si seariazs of thye|_ i }
cd (iiss ceafivm tae ene made ta 1303

fide great to t.c for tzec refuree ©?
Toliet. Thare is no evideree t:at (1k Tenis were possad co ¢ze Lapleo
Tund for any etter perjoss than suport of tas |

Romine seamhadtdind

3. altioe:a there is co evitswe tuat CLA ever dircetly or in-
Atweetly fucted che int zrastiowal Yesews Committe: ot Treeése Louse.

arc: loscitute of Anarica,
a 55D agent, Joel A.

na 92 DDE
CL BY 959779

SECRET



Le
oe a
coerce ~ SECRET ° ~
: : ‘
SUALLOWAY (P)/ i
i
i
|
ui :
(5/ iaica @, 13c457eID ii
: i
: i
ERICH W. ISHiSTEAD i

Chief, Cover and Cormercial Staff

Atteeiment: Fendiag Kecord

Distributioz: '
Orig & 1 - Adse (handearried) 1. Gf
1 ~ 18382 (Shalloway)" file aerera

2 - ciccs i

‘1 - LecogseT/46 - Fs-2121 | ) E t
i

i

i

1-296 iy
1 - 201-76662 (Cherne, Leo)
2'- CCS/PRG chrono & board

‘DDO/C/CCS/PRS/GHALlen:ekw (20 Feoruary 1976)

aRgENES FEET naa

1.



SECRET
Classification

JFK MICROFILM FILE SUMMARY

SUMMARY; REEL 4, FOLDER(S) 3, CREATED 02/07/94 by ES

SUBJECT OF FOLDER : Abram Chayes

201 NUMBER, IF ANY

INCLUSIVE DATES OF FILE MATERIAL Undated THRU APRIL 1978

RELEVANCE OR NON-RELEVANCE TO OSWALD & JFK ASSASSINATION:

Neither the information or time frame is relevant. See Summary below.

REASON OR ASSUMED REASON FOR INCLUSION IN THIS COLLECTION.

A review of the HSCA volumes did not surface an "Abram" Chayes but an "Abraham" Chayes, a legal
advisor to the State Department, who maintained that at the time Oswald received his visa to enter Russia
from the Soviet Embassy in Helsinik, normally at least 1 week would elapse between the time of a tourist's
application and the issuance of a vias. It would appear that Abram and Abraham are not identical to each
other. Betty Lichtenfeld of the HSCA reviewed the file on 17 August 1978.

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION WITHIN FILE:

Harvard Law School professor who attended a Pugwash Conference in Munich in 1977.

CIA/U, S. GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIP:

None.

PAGES OF NON-JFK-RELATED MATERIAL: 8
