# 104-10169-10086

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10169-10086,

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRANSQLITAL

GASSAICATON

i Oes IMPORTION REPORT #10

7

SECRET

спк.

ROUTING

EXT.

DAlE

3347

Jg January 1966

WHC 12

-J8119 1851/55

TDCS 98-315/00204-fin

C1/0P: C1/1C, 73, 71/D, 81/INT 6, 14, CA 3, CA/PEG, DO 2, DO/HA, M2 8

10 January 1966

DISSEMINATIONI

WICH REACHES TEARON TI

Wither

BARK

ROUTINE

MACEDINCE

DASO ON 1n0. 00r..

каці

WAЇE-B51L

UYG-7E90

(14-Ü8502)

NP (ANBLINX-I, AXRAZZ-")

L1A18O0 •

MOUtSILO

SRATE

HANGING INSMIUCTIONS

MAY

NAVY.

NO FOREISN DISSEM/ CONTROLLED DISSEN

The in CICS

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

RETURN TO CLA

seckground Use Only

Do Not Reprodua

file AmRAzz-1

AUTMENTICATINO

OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICER(5)

CASCATO

BECRET

AHEN PRICO INI

і й 18-в окои покосьстюм

magen 703

COPY NO.

3/870

# 10006-001

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SERNET

NO FULMINO DISSIN COSTROILES DISSIA

CENTRAL INTELLIDINCR ABRNET

• 80:1:88.

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY. CUBA

DATE OF

7 AND 13 JANUARY 1966

INFO.

• SURET

STATUS OF PLANS TO ASSASSINATE PRINE MINISTEN

FIDEL CASTRO RUZ

TDS D8-J18/00806-66

ESTE 10 JANUARY 181O

HACE &

DATRACO. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (18 JANUARY. 1866)

APRAISAL A CUBAN ÉMIGRÉ MITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE HOVIMIKNTO REVOLUCION.

ARIO DEL PUEBLO (MRP, REVOLUTIONARY HUYENEYT OF THU YKOPIR) UNO MAD

BEEN AN ACCURATE REPORTER ON GENERAL EMIGRE POLITICAL ULVALOPHENTO

BINCE ABOUT MID-1962.

-

1. FIELD CONMENT: THE FOLLONING REPORT SUPPIKHKNTO TOCEDA.

310/00059-66 FROM THE SAME SOURCE, AND 1S OUE OF A BXHIKE OF ASPORTA

ON ALLEGED PLOTS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN PRIME MINISTEN VIURL ÇANTRO RUZ.

3. ON ABOUT 7 JANUARY 1966 HERMINIO DIAZ DANCIA, A MAMAKA OR

THE HOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO 3O DE NOVIEMARE (MRTN, NO MOVEMEN RE-

VOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT), SAID THAT HE AND HIS GROUP WERE ALADY TO LEAVE

JOR CUBA TO CARRY OUT THEIR PLAN TO ASSASSINATE PRIME MINISTER FIULL

CASTRO RUZ.. (SOURCE CONMENT: BY 13 JANUARY DIAZ HAD NOT UKEN SLEN

AGAIN, AND IT IS POSSIBLE THAT HE LEFT MIAMI FOR AN EMUARKATION

POINT IN SOUTH FLORIDA.)

ME HORD. GRAN CURAM: A40164 10.as

MAPE/IMR

Tals

8, 09.0.8000

SECRET

MA

АЗНО АСУ!

CIA/ NMCC

NAvE

FBI

Ai7

nubla the mesalas al the laplorazo Lama, T1110

MARMOS DO NA URBULDONIRA DATUO LO ArARIMIR DY lei.

NO FOREIGN DISSEW/CONTROLLED DISNKH

INS

SECOS: NA MIC MISTAX OCI ONS OCE XKKKEK

TREASURY

CUSTOUS

CUAST QUAND HORDER PATROL

"st"

---

## Page 3

14-00000

опти

NO FORLIGH DISSIN COSTAOLLED DISSEN

• SECRET

IDOSDB

315100206-66.

PAGE Z

S. ON IS JANUARY JOSE PRINCE AND "TITO" PALAEZ SALD THAT THEIR

PLAN TO ASSASSIXATI CASTRO VAS COMPLETE, THE ASSASSINATION ATTENT

MAS TO BI MADE AT AX UNIDENTIFIED BEACH NHIRE CASTRO VISITS YOR

SIVIRAL DAYS AT A TIME, VHIN CASTRO ARRIVRB AS THE BRACH, L'NXANLO

ФОРІЬ Ї ТИВ ЛІТО ВТАТІВ ЛЛІ ТО ВЕ ХОТІВІКО; PRINCE ANO PELKI

HOPE THAT MOTIPICATION OF CABTRO'S ARRIVAL AS THR REACH BILL BE Hi

CRIVID BEFORE THE END OY YEARUARY. (BOURCE COMMINTI PRISUMABLY

THE ASSASSINS MILL LRAVE THE UNITED STATIO FOR CUBA AT THAT TIMB:)

A, ACCORDINO TO PRINCE AND PELAEZ, THE FINANCIAL ARRANGENENTS

FOR THE VINTURE ARE COMPLETE, EXCEPT FOR BONE MINOR LAST-MINUTE

EXPENBiS.

B. PRINCE AND PELAEZ HAVE BEIN ATTEMPTINO TO OBTAIN BEYZRAL

MORPHINE INJECTIONS, AS HELL AS THO TRANSISTOR RADIOS AND BPARE

BATTERIES, TOR AN UNSPECIYIED PURPOSE,

the cite thie?

WrING. TIELD DIBBEM: CINGSO, CINCLANT, COUKHESTYOR, MIAMI REPS

'OT STATE, YBI, IONS, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, COAST GUARD.

17a21Nt:19.

-- END OF HESSAGE

S1A0N M. MAnd SO 10X1201447: 64120 21012453

1311

1 YAN D0 1V5NKE T00C

028 10 1B0Ur6A Tut

No renter Distin/ CON

SECRET

---

