# 104-10103-10250

## Page 1

104-10103-10250l

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO

1

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

CONTIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

Mr. Sturbitts

3C34A

INITIALS

3

INSPECTOR BENERAL

76-2344

5

6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

:.

Returned herewith is the thermofax file

copy of the 27 November 1963 cable (IN

69266) in the AMLASH operation, provided

me to carry to the meeting of ll June 1976

with Senators Hart and Schweiker.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADORESS ANO PHONE NO.

SDBreckinridge/2E24/5527

UNCLASSIFIED

roM no. 237 Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE

16 June 76

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

placein AMLASA

30/

ROUTING

* DIRECTOR

PARIS

TONIO CANE. 21

AMLASH,

DOP, ADOP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI.

3, C/SAS 5, VR

A 1

EOD

WAS C RESENSITIZEGK 2713032

DIR

DESENSITZED PART 1664

Z2 Nu 631N6 IN69266

APOY MEY AY PERUMEN UNSIERRA

ASIERRA HIGHLIGHTS PERIOD 18 OCT TURN 18 NOV 63

FLORA

l: 21 00T.

UNSNAFIV16 STATES FOLOR DIAZ PARRADO TO BE PROMOTED

O YINISTER

RANK AND RETIRED AT SAME TIME. SHE TO RECEIVE RETIRFMTNT

PAY ABROAD CL.E• IN FRANCES.

HINSNAFU/12 VERY SITTER ABCUT THIS

MISUAL ACTIONE

2. 29 OCT TARGETS VISITED 3Y JAO SANTIASO. TOTIASi COMPLAINS

KeITTERLY THAT GRAMATIES TRYING TO FIRE MIM. STATESE WRITING LETTER

TO IMPORTANT OFFICIALS IV CUBA "EXPOSING SITUATION IN EMBASSY.

SANTIAGO STATES

EXBASSY RECEIVED LETTER FROM ONE MR TOUZET (COMPENTS"

vassion ti

OF TOLZET LABORATORIES, PARIS) WHO TAKING COURT ACTION FREEZE EMBASSY

HURRICANE FLORA RELIEF BAUX ACCOUNT. ACTION BASED ON

EXPROPRIATED TOUZST PROPERTY IN CUSA. SANTIAGO STATES ME WILL

"VITUDRAU RELLEF FINO FROM ZANS ON SOOCI. IF ME CAN. INSVAFUIE

MENTIONS EMBASSY MAY MAVE, TO MOVE. (COMMENT: THIS SIBJECT HAS BEEN.

VENTIONED SEVEYAL TIMES UNSIERRA AND AGOX BUT NO DEFINITE WORD AS

"YET. LIAISON MAS BEEN QUERIED).

LIAISON HAS REEN QUERIED. ENSVAFU/12 STATES MANIO SRACIA VOLATCI

MAS RECALLED TO CUBA AND STATES 4S DIVAS HEAVILY.

the code??

DDI

Арт

301OCT. UNSNAFU/1? COMPLAINS SITTERLY ABO!T OFFICIAL

3

SECRET

ODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMINITED.

..=

Copy No..

---

## Page 3

•CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 104.0%

PAGE._'*

VISITORS TO PAYIS MUD HOU THEY DIMATE MEVOLTITE, STATES ME WITHE

ME MAD CONCEALED TAPE RECORDER TO RECORD TYESE CONVERSATIONS. SHE

INCLIDES PAPITO SERSHERA

CAS TRANSCRIBED) AND ROLANDO

" NOV.: VILEREDO LAT VISITS. (TELEPIONE CALL FROM EDITH SOREL

IN WHICH SOREL STATES "FRANQUI IS LEAVING ON THE-I2TH". LAM

'CONFIRYS THIS, STATING FRANQUI VROTE TO LAY SAYING ME COMING PARI,

LOND, THEN PRASUS AND HAVA. MENTIO! OF TETE CASISO AND FEAR CASUSO

WILL TRY TOOK VITH LAM AND UNSVAFU/IE COONMENTA VIA INPUMBLE/Z, PAPI WA

Havin

CASSO ATTEMPT TALK VITY SATY LAM AND INSHAUYIDI.

LAM DISCUSSED POSSIBLE TRIP TO SPAI"! SUT STATES HE MOULD ONLY GO

•HIÄN DIPLOIATIC PASSPORT FOR FEAR OF ADDEST.

"ovov.

UNSVAFIV12 SIVES HAVA ADDRESS OF NOL REVIELTAS

CALLE 22M0. 377A, 3137 Y 1L. "IRAT. "BE ?5996.

951116

STATES CANY DAY NON WE WILL 35 QUEN SOGDAYS TO MOUS ÜT OF TE

IZINOU.UNSHAr!/ 12 "OCTS TO JAN MARINELLO APPOINTMENT WITH

ANSER, FRUSTRATION, AND TEARS. (COMPENT: APFARENTLY FEELS BETRAYED

BUT NO FIRY INDICATION WHAT COURSE OF ACTION SHE WILL TAKE.,

1. 13 NOU. MORE TALK ABOUT MARINELLO. UNSNAFU/I2 STATES PUS

FEELS DESPERATF, AND WILL -ATTEND TO YER PRIVATE AFFAIRS.

INSIAFU/16 STATES SE MAY BRING EVIDENCE OF EMBASSY CHAOS AND

CORRIPTION MOME FOR SAJTKESPING AND MNGNAFUA1? ENCOUGAGES VET TO DO 50.

AVDRES MORENO, M4O VISITING, STATES CORDiA MAY MAVE

TROUBLE SEING

ACCEPTED OY FRENCY IN DIEH MIS COMMUNIST AGITATOR PAST. STATES

SECRET

---

## Page 4

CO, MESSAGE

I: 1 264: ruGE

SORRHA MAG ST0N FREV0Y A•3AS3AS98 OI MNDIER SFVEEL T125

CFYIvC

AIPPORE FOR 415 NOMINATION. UNSVAFUA1? COMNENTS THAT FIDEL CASTRO 15

49N23 PERSOWNEL CHAN 3ES NOU SO THAT WIEN KHRUSICHEN VISITS CIBA

TTGIT VILL. IMPLY NIS"TACIT ACKNOWLEDGE"EMT CF

THESE GHANSEG. INSNAFIVI2 MENTIONS THAT FIDEL IS AFRAID OF LET

SSCNUSE DE RECORDINES OF CONVERSATIONS WHICH TOOK PLACE IN 1959

ViICH ININAFUVLE MAS ÉN MER POSSESSION. SCOMMENTS NO FURTHER

CLARIFICATION. AND MAY POSSIBLY BE TYPICAL UNSVAFU/12 BOASTING).

FIRTYE? COIMENT ABOUT MARINELLO AND UNSNAFIV12 STATES SHE MAY

HAVE TO VACATE APARTMENT. STATES "'E "ILL FIND

SUMETHINS JUT. I DONT BELIEVE VE WILI. BE IEDE FOR TANY MORE

MONTHS®•

30 COUMENTO SCATTEREO COMMEUTS THROIST DUT LATED TRANSCRIPISITO

EFFEGT THAT MANY PERSONNEL CUANSES JOIÈS OS IN CUBA AO TIPTOLO 26

"JILY PROPLE GEEM TO SE SAIVING STRENGTY, CASNAFIVI2 SEEMS FEEL THAT

MARINELLO AND¡GORONA 9SING SENT ASROAD TO SET PID OF THEM FOR A WHILS.

БЕ СРЕТ КАРОК

SECRETI

---

