RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
PRS SSE eS 5 SS a

10187-10026. § 2022

E

FILE TIT

/

“iweiustve nates: 24 Ott /956— 23 Tul 1973 Finan
“GustoptAL. uNIT/LocaTION: _L4 / DDO

: ROOM: 30 3¢" egae : :
DELETIONS, TF ANY:

DAT PATI REVERED AY

RE

STONATURE OF :

ING OFFICIAL



Sea ERR:

i a Aovett) “2¢4()

CPS0700P U0 |



mas : . * - NOTICE

‘THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT : :

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER, FORWARD cs

DOCUMENTS, THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

i

TO. RID/RPU GE-58. i '

NOTICE :

cary

Ta 2593



ln fwrnens reius0 BO + tees

[ FROM: (Headquarters component)

_WH/L |! : So susie aie FROHES: arg
a a = er ‘AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTON i
“EP/AN ,
FROM: (Divison)

TO ~ + (Statlon/Baxe)

Mexico City HD, 5
; TI “TNFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS: 7 :
COMPLETE TEMS. THROUGH IR” Wu) 19 -ENTER_OLO-TITLE WHEN: AMENOING-A” TLE “Cite |
7 4 Bay Pave svete as 201 ON PROITCE ALES POAT ARE REPS fo” ‘
rr: 3a ue ures must OE STERE SE INET WME T CATeD Te eT Sor Fo tub atom ting :
u Meo iae USTD TO GIVE RLASONS FOW THE AC HON wCiNG RE

QuesthO, TO LOENTIEN INT TYPE OF MATERULTO BC PLACES.

vreua'e-aLe REMARKS MUST DE STERILE, s
. fe A FILE OF TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS,

ITE 7 ANG ©-UBE FIRST THREC LETTERS OF OFSPATCH Sym |” » ponds 7
Se TUT MEAOQUAMTERS CL@0)]! WTEM 10 <A RECORDS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION FEES

BOLS. FOH FICLO BT <
MENTS ACCORDING TO ESTAULISHED NUMERIC CODES.

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE
2 CODE FILE NUMBER
TEGUNTHY. iaeleelBnTE iE TGORY WUMOLM ' CIE CURIE RUM
0s0 {006 | 07478

QUESTS. CONSULT TOUR HMO ON ANY PHOMLEMS THAT ARSE.

TILE Tie SPEC IC SUBIECT® (PROJECTS LIMITED TO. 13 svactst

KDPACTOR

AETION REQUIRED

DEATTUCTION RECOMMENDED

cranny)

OPEN FE

THRU HATED
a AMEND FILE TITLE coven

sn 3 REMARRS FOR FIELD OB FIDO TION? 7

Wea:
ae

fy

i

TINTERESTED STATIONS TPROTECTS ONLY? TRVERTS TO WEADSUARTERS ESR UIST ACTION DESK

HMM. oso

FILES ACTION

lp a
ee

:

eWianGE FEAMANENTUY TO)
Vorricer @ OESKE

ite

novo mw eta PARE FOLDER AND.
cs FILES leeadeerechlaas “| icalataatbeeediet SUND TO REQUESTER

x|
70. COMMENTS HINCLUDE SPECUL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INS:

TRUCTIONS®

WO _APPROVAL,

7 eoneemncnrc iz
Lh pian aepenewoln ee: Locos c
; Sar aaacenseat
Werree fea :
Trrectwe OAte 7 TSE Tine NuMACA

23 Jol (7B jem re eset

DUSOLETE PREVIOUS
yore 912 EDITIONS. SECRET : 38 aes cert

Praesy



C1 ComementiAL AE] Secwer

ginctas | colnhenis (onbor
TRaMALS: | Shem Drow hie! cron comm ahr wach Somme}

; Chiet/WH/Reg.
2 a
auf
. Nee! Life of ”
WALCO.
3 7

hres _|

Acta aipat

Mien Leg

is TERNAL

2-02

an 610 “tase (3 secret = ()_ CONFIDENTIAL a USE ONLY (0 UNCLASSIFIED


= ae ee | = rr
‘s "AIL SECRET at

estern Hemisphere Division

“ACTION REQUIRED: With lWeadquarters: Desk Goncurfence; reta!
: files in Records Center for a ten-year period.

REFERENCE 1 HMMT-11,368, 17 March 1972 .

1. In the summér ‘of.1972,, the KDABSINTHE and KDLITERAL
--basehouses of the KDFACTOR .Project’ were closed definitely. Since °
_ August 1969, .we have periédically been sending you the photograph~

ic coverage files from these two basehouses.

2. We are sending herewith the remaining photographic produc-
tion £iles which were at the Station. These files cover photo
holdings for the’ period January 1971 through July 1972 when the
last basehousé (KDABSINTHE) was closed. =

3. With Headquarters pesk concurrence, it is requested that
you retain these files in Records Center for a ten-year period.

CGorase x. huinelare”

rye H, FARMILANT

ATTACHMENT:
‘Two (2) boxes of photos, h/w

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig &@ 2 ~ C/WHD (w/att, h/w)

foro SrereeeeeeeeeeeCe (eetadeon on
HMMT-12,162 20 July 1973

ITO ‘nos fs muMEta
SECRET H



tna mo nate

SECRET 1820152 APR 7 cure extco city 19539"

DIRECTOR fie item 89072

REDTOP AEKICK
REFS’ As HMMA 41,550, 26 JAN. 72

Be DIRECTOR 237413, - :
te FLIGHT MANIFEST SHOWS PCS ARRIVAL 13 APRIL 72 pate
EASTERN FLT 901 OFt : ee
A) ALEKSEY ALEKSANDROVICH K UR AP OV, WIFE, A
IRINA ARKAD 'YEVNA’ AND SON, IGOR. PER SENSITIVE Has pores
SOURCE INFO, KURAPOV TO FILL SUPPLEMENTARY POST AT ‘
SOVENB. PER KDABSINTHE, PRINCIPAL CONTACTS SINCE
ARRIVAL HAVE BEEN SOVENB GUARDS, YURIY BABASHKIN,
EG VASILYEV AND MIKHAIL VAR AV K 0.
B) ANATOLIY MIKHAYLOVICR GV 0ZDE V, WIFE,
LYUDMILA VASIL"YEVNA AND SON, MIKHAIL. GVOZDEV TO
REPLACE KGB CHAUFFEUR, VLADINIR VASILYEVICH M A K AR OV
(201-342942), WHO DEPARTING PCS 24 APRIL 72.
2. REQUEST CLARIFICATION 21S ASSIGNED KURAPCY ANN
QVOZDEV. REF B HAS SANE 201 FOR BOTH.
\3. FILE® 201-3429425 KURAPOV 201 AND GVOZDEV 201. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET



a Te —, a)
DISPATCH SECRET Ye vn sons
Chief, Western Healaphore Divisioa : :
Wa cscs tora fica Madenend Set tce: —_|__fane ine
— ee ——
“cntet of. of Station, moxks® Sieg | letoin

> Forwarding of _EDFACTON/IDABS INTE 8 & SDLITERAL Photo. Cover: je Files
SCS

Ret tion of files in Records Center tor a.
ten-year period.

_BEFEUINCE 3 HMMA~39,078, 18 June 1970

ACTION: aEquInD:

Foreucoea'persyith is one box of KDABSINTH and

i
|
mI
KDLITERAL photographic coverage files covering the period

June through December 1969; ‘

ATTACHMENT:
= One vox, b/v

DISTRIBUTION:
3 = C/WED (w/att, b/w)

*
racket Sar Ti Wa
HMMA-40 , 562 {ai May 1972
rer SRT ae
{

SECRET 1 50-6-74/4



SUBJECT : Prank ‘CAMDEN (Case HQD 127-498)

REFERENCE: © Our Memorandum dated 5 March 1970 entitled
Bee Bruce DAKAR.

1. CAS/MEX monitored the 14 March meoting site where
Frank CAMDEN was scheduled to meet bis Soviet contact. One
male individual arrived at 1403 hours, remained 15 ninut
and departed without being met. CAS/MEX observation of the
gite continued until 1630 hours.

2. Tho male was described a8 fairly short and robust
with brown hair. He wore dark glasses and a blue. sveater,

carried a newspaper in bis band.

3. We would appreciate receiving 8 report on CAMDEN ‘Ss:
trip to Mexico.

BASIC: MEXICO CITY 2741, dated 17 March 1970
PROJECT: LISMPTY

LIAISON: None
WH/1/Lalosborne : Inr/3E04/4167:1973 (19 March 70)

Distribution:
Orig. and 2 - CI/LIAISON
~ SB/X/WH
$B/C1/0
CI/OPS/WL
30-6-74/4 (LIEMpTY/Prod.)
= 201-862965
~ Chrono

pekeee



«
a ener t0
. ere aro ace,
= pesreor' C) eee

SE CRE T 208292 cre wExyco outy FR68-
o DIRE

3 wuts Star ion

REF AMD UF OD

ag pacar reneonapensavrerarterneraseeteanr’  lELu PpanPaqeaeeee

WY P.O. BONE

WPEK BASIS ASTER ACT IAT

wEQl!



a fu LIEMPTY prod

LIEMPTY -. Stationary Photo Coverage

_! ./HMMA=33591.- 4 December 1967. LILYRIC photos for
identification by Station Tegucigalpa asset SWWATERFRONT-1. te
es tear Agent recently met Soviet official in Mexico who igs E

: aac probably Alcksandr BROVKIN. (201-185114), Third Secretary :

ae and KGB. officer: involved in LA Communist Party operations.

HMMA-30151, 20 September 1966 .
H H “LIEMPTY/LIMITED/LILYRIC photo coverage was of
: i value-in late 1966 in assessing the motivatation and
integrity of LICOWL-1, access agent to Stanislaus
H Sergceyevich: SILNIKOV (AEQUALITY). Sovict Embassy
Administrative officer in September, 1966.

AEBURBLE

Photographic coverage of the target installations by
LIENPTY in early 1967 aided in the identification of
ritNnknown Soviet intelligence officer who assisted in
the training of a double agent being handled by the :

FBI. 7

AEGINMICK

In early 1967 during the, initial phases of a double
: agent case under FBI.control, the LIEMPTY/LIMITED/

LICALLA photographic surveillance activities
furnished uSefuI evidence. The LIEMPTY project verified .

the agent's contact with two. Soviet officials, enabled
their identification and established the fact of their

KGB membership. °



24 November 1967

NENORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: LIEMPTY ‘Photo Surveillance Project Contribution
to Soviet Operations Program Seer

2

1. This rather unique operation. has unquestionably
made a major contribution to the increasingly effective
Sov Ops program of the Mexico Station. On the positive
side its principal value lies in the identification of
the Mexican ‘and third-national contacts of the Soviets,
from which we must select and develop the “access
agents" so vital to cur operations against the Soviet
human target. LIEMPTY also provides us witha mach
cleager picture of inner relationships and activity
patterns within the Soviet mission itself, which in
turn facilitates effective targetting. The CE value of
an LIENPTY type project as a monitor, of real and
potential agent contacts of the Soviets, is of course
obvious. :

2. It is important to note that LIEMPTY is not,
as might be the case in Stations of lesser overall
capability, a simple case of photography (or observation)
for the record. Rather it isan important facet of a
concerted high-priority effort to get at and recruit
individual Soviets.

Py nr Ree
ahmesB. Noland
Chief, SB/O/NI



i

miners |

MNQDENT

“Ur Ainey wn

aLUhce KU

. . Yedern) Burson of Investigation
Bs Attantion: itr. 8, J.’ Pepieh:
SUBIGE +’ Viattors to Soviet Rubcsay, imxteo City —

1. Baforence is mole to our CECI-316/0237%-67, 1 June

1967, which reported two unidentified men emi o child visiting —

the Soviet Ebasay in Nexico City on 20 April 1967.

®. A sot of photos shoving the two een end child are
heveby forvarded your Buroau for identifiention. This Orfice
would epprectate boing infomed if either of the mon in tho
Photos ia identified,

Peotes (3)

C8CI~-316/02595-6T

RET ra mant sf



~ SECRET

“eBt-316/02596-67

Wi/1/J.Zerence/ jut
6 June. 1967
Distribution:

orig & 1 = Addressee
l= RE {30-64 7H/h)

1 = WiH/FO/A
Coordinated with:

s3/0/ WH.

BETY | Ce gy

DSSER

H



oo

SECRET

fom no, KEMLACES Fon S608

vans 688 wrucw way oc us SOURCE RECORD

per meee er enn

Proseer Tee se ee cee nee nce,

>
scuRCE

‘suBsEcT

felt to Terpiee of Soviet ship NRMROVICR
0

EB dose spprestate reperte af thie type,
of this type, The KULYNY
ronta.to HDAL2 ant

we

KEMLACES Fonw sp.02
taun 35 688 wnucn may oe utes

SOURCE RECORD



3 eae Sse on sees

SOURCE RECORD
SrSeErTantecmestass enone eae =

Sent

ae

{ERED Yet ry tcy epee eee rope ar nme w enigemeerpcine a
MUECET, 116 3F

ane
OATE OF INFORMATION

sunsect
‘lone cf Vietar Manvel ourinmaz Cartis to
Beturn to Gatendh

a REPORTS OFFICER 7
(ASH, DISTRIBUTION Wal wEOUESTEO
27 eb 60

z
one 3Vh29,198
GRRE Bee ‘aitea

Bextee/ Cs terala
COMMENTE IREADON FOR REJECTION: CUSTOMERS AND OES EVALUATIONS, SPECIAT OISTRIEUTION OW LOAN HOTER COMMENTS ¥O FIELD, ETCD
Giston'd as reo'd.,

LRGs eee eth 1 Rematyig lettin Bei

STORET /MIPRY ACC MTIM: C.WTROL
TSow'ss 688 Nincn‘uay se uses? SOURCE RECORD ae



‘Lier

Ligery 3.(E-9)

GATE ACQUIRED
20 Dee 41

HexiconsSoviet Relations

tes REPORTS OFFICER {
=a = aN/Lts 1 i
WASH. DISTRIBUTION cs Eva RTOUESTED
[i afer fS2 ae
GRACE KRex -
To Hex/few ¥atca/czechs

‘CommanTe REABON FOR Rt

)

[enote CusTOUERD AN

so Fean WN UaTiORa GEGAL DATMOUTION OW LOAN NOTES COMMENTS TO PELE CTC)

i
|

rors No. REPLACES Font 30-02
Tun 38, 688° wrich May we useo

thecanenimenntine etre



. LIPSTICK 19

! Operational /Marmal de

ieag992
2% Sept 1958

Aeropuertas SCO?

|
mea
|

——

{
i
|
i
{
|
|
!
i
|

1

i

eo

{

T

qos





TL SSusseceeesseatersscsssussedesutseesttiwaussti-Ste-beewSictiesebie__., |. ': Lash, ii ie Tassel | 1 a

piven >

Alsoz’ LIVEsTOCK/2.

sont 3
a
C Hd nest
: 3 2
i P48 2
: : ce 3.
q | i 3 ;
i Blog
aig
i pi 3
f oo HE:
aie
&
! s



t i 1 : deen
Pec d foe bby
| eel eae
Hoe i | i !
t H HW 1
{ ' i j i
{ : |
| |

LIS‘PTY-17

i

Rew BEDOX/Possible Polish Scholership Candidate

i
{



cihgress in Mexico.

aeaueieet § df a : i
H Y j

yoo NY | ;

a i

be 3 ¥

gig : |

io % | . 1

3 i g

ot Fa xi 1 ‘| :
‘a ae y 1 Hy

c a \ i

g g i {

bd 2 . |

3 3 XN ;

2 &

8 g

cat oO

a >

— 9

Es 3

eto



\ _ Rbsoqusas veconte hace’ ptinen red, rb
Cha Mnletey of Agriondtera honk tae cquhiessd a ix



“ suaiect AND: PROET FUE ‘Request
ANO FIELO NOTIFICATION. OF ACTION

‘COtcere treo 1 THROUON ia a
ree 9 ACU LE THTLes MUST OE STERILE BINCE Fee WiLL |
“APPUAR OW THE FIELD COPIED AN ON MACHINE LIBTS

hia ACOUEST. ITH. 10 MAY
TION

AL TOBE PLACED,

7 INA FILE O® TOMARE OTMER ExeLaNATORY UMAR

CoOr 7a RUMOR
TT SeATRGORT HUWBER—TEFTEET

i ¢ 50 : 6
' S-FIUE THLE TaPECIFIC BUBTECT TPROMCTS UNITED TO 13 SaCTT :

| :

\ KDFACTOR

SURTaY wun

ACTION REQUIRED:
\ ~_ANALYSIS ACTION 3. DISPOSITION

[ccoee rue wnoicare omrosrions| | RETAIN OESTRUCTION RECOMMENDED
H TwHw ‘ATE?
AMEND FILE TITLE, REOPEN

(©. RENARKS 1FOR FIFLO OBTRIGUTIONT

FORMERLY LIEMPTY

TINYERESTED BTATIOND (PROTECTS ONT

iTERESTEO WEAOGUAATERS DESK TUIST ACTION DESI
50
FILES ACTION

EMARGE PERMANENTLY TO]
PREPARE FOLOEA AND| [OFFICER @ DESK?
nestaicteo UNRESTRICTED SERCARS Gowen Ano

NO COMMENTS HNELUDE SPECIAL NEAOGUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTORS?

ENOORSCMENT 12. COOROINATION

ANCH/B ESR ALO. “SIGNATURE OF @RaNCn/OKSn BO.
erate APPLICABL

EFFECTIVE DATE TOOE “Fer NUMO!

fora GRSOLETE PREVIOUS ———
eOrTion
taney 812 STS

SECRET ae |

j
E
;
:
i



SECRET ~

estence rat
Towne.

a 2 Countey AND Pama CATEGORY aN Ramat

50. (xonico) 6 Operational

‘Peemasent OuRctouT
To oH, whe Syl
onreaee Fae rointes
ANUS To MQUISTEE,

COMMENTS: (lalode bral aeuvstion ol ie w prea

FOUN ue OMY

ENDORSEMENT

ix}

‘Deis REQUEST SATISPIES RECORDS Fi NTS.

Gea

MQUEST APF

Treectivt oaTe

Df fee /95Y,

eed

