# 104-10510-10116

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10510-10116°

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

S.C. ATTACIMENT A to UFGA 26075

Т. В. САгО. н. О.. іх. Р. Н.

DIRECTOR

DADI: COUNTY

SEPATIONI DI PUBLIO IISATICIS

1300 N. W. POURTEENTH STHEKT

MIAMI, TLORIDA JOISO

TELEPHONE S77-0J41

Ants-Comulairo Clialo

Mar 32, 2966

"wo building

¿Do is la latta Avonuo

0811: 1900

Doc. Mero. orr

RỢ 8

6,8

8. D. 8-4-32

- Rest na

19, No H. 20d Stroot

LApto 3

tii docio. Nacoos

(aud torardos a 33 your old Cuban ale saruzeo sas first

¿i ou clinic on Ootobor 14, 1965 with tho hlivory of having

minushalitis at tho aro of 3, having soicuros at the 0z0 of 12,

waits coated with modication, doing wull unts 1958 con ho was

beaton by too Butluta polico.

From that timo on ho had le or 5

äulsuros a ronth, fought in the Bay of Pleo, escapud fisom Cuba,

and tiao trustod in tia Unitad Statos at Marcy Hospital.

•Hai soicuras continuod and in 1964 renoval of a local opiloptio

¿oug ¿on his Riebt Carobral Homophoro nas dono 1n Hosphia.

inned tilat tiau nüs boon or Dilantin, Fhonobarbital, ara liyuolino,

1"-t0ol: nudications Irrogularly and had stoquont solzuros. Sirco

inãd dila do hao boon ropoatodly soon ir. clinis, and so haro triod

¿u bring tas cuizuros undor control by sotting his to rako hia

At the present tiro wo are cüill tiring to

Ho has 2 to 3 solsures por conth.

so caa do os any further servico to you, picaco int ua luor.

Sincerals,

Rel A. Rice Dinine, In t

Ruta do Rico Strono, R. Do '

sotilag sarsator

SE ATHi TO NEGA 26075

is COPl

19-127-25/5-

---

