# 104-10128-10364

## Page 1

104-10128-10364)

REL

LEASE UNDER

iNT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET:

МАЙ 201956 22

Chief:

Contract Personnel Divialon

Deputy!

tractor of Sosar montagations and Support)

MARGEVIN

840695 30-

Panl D.

1.:

Reference ia made to your reguest dated 20 January

1956 for, a Covert Security Clearance to perait appointment

of subject to Staff/Agent/operations officer at Havans, Cuba.

2o'. In accordance ulth the provisions set forth in

she Director's Renorandun of l labruary 1949 entitled,

Cotran

"Security and Operational Clearances," & covert security

clearance in granted for the covert use of the Subjeet.

described in your request as set forth in paragraph f1,

above.

This will confirm the Covert Security Clearance :

granted telephonically to Mr. Ken Warbold CPD x-3585 on

26 January 1956.

Subjects of covart security clearances are not

to represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented,.

as, employoos of CIA.

Your attention 1s called to the fact that a covert

security clearance does not

with the provisions of CIA Rēgulation 10-210.

COnstItute COmpLALe CompLIanCe

Therefore,.

1I you should desire at a later date to change the status

or use of this individual

@ request for clearance to cover

any proposed change should be submitted to this office.

:

This clearance becomes Invalid in the event the

DOS/185

subject's

services are not utillied within 60 days of the

dato of this memorandum.

D. Chief

Chiat

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITI:

Chief

Dc

Robert

CC

e

03

MARRIN

SEY hs

17 March 1956

CLOSED

RACHE

SECRET

can inhe

RETURN TO CIA

Background Uso Only

Do Nợi Repreduce

---

