# 104-10186-10058

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10186-10058

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

YO FORFIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SURECT GUStaVO LNU (aka: "Lino!)

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

CSCi-316, 00731-65

16 February 1965

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE & washington,

D.

DATE ACO. DeCember 1964

C.

FELO REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INTORMATION, SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFiNITIVE. APPRAISAL OR CONTINI IS TENTATIVR

SOURCE:

A former Cuban. IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Serdice until April 1964.

CS-311/00115-64

(page. 7).

8 JUlY 1964 RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Headquarters Conments

The following report is one of a series containing pepsonality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested

that the addressees take no action on any of the

indivicuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

Gustavo LNU, aka "Lino," 1s an official of the Departameato

Ilegal (Illegal Department) in the Direccion General de

Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2.

Gustavo LNU is a Cuban citizen and was born about 1937

or 1938.

He 18 six

feet tall, weighs 190 pounds,

had has a

thin build.

Gustavo's ethnic

type is Latin; he has a dark

complexion, baick, wavy hair which he wears

in a ducktail, small,

black eyes, thick

eyebrows, a thin, straight nose, a large, thin

fice, and a long thin neck. He has thin lips and a small mouth

Gustavo

Headquarters Comment

1.

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on Gustavo.

NO

SECRET

FOREIGN

DISSEN

2

1

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

RED

CINCLANT

I NAW

CINCSO #

AIR

I&ES

NSA

1 ося

7FBL 2.

(Note: Field distribution indicated by "#".)

CINFO REPORTA REPORTASINFORMATION REPORT

UFGA 19083(16 Dec61)

Wt. StEOB,1 WELS/R

CILIA

HELLADEL I

ICI/R&A

LX 2256

LX 2290

20-2

3, JELURLUSD

WU HASHERR

SO PROJECT (AMMUG)

11

[SCI -316/00731-65

HIL SUCL.

RUD/AS

TOrALA HT!. SA

8 (1), WE 1 (1), CI 4, RID 1

19-5-1

¡COOFONATING RELEASES

BES : LD: sWk

CI REA

TORS NO

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS KOTTIONS.

8801

---

