rl er titex DB owtoora

Rr», Han 7 INSTRUCTIONS.

+ USE THIS FoRu TO FI _ janine ata ob tHe

asters at
DATE OFFICERS THE OaTA FuewreneD suoyLo ee bt coumuere a
[agceivas [ vonsanoco | INITIALS | Peesieus cow alley
8. 00 nor vi .
ENTER ae RIATE SyMOOL IM "AN" SLocK

© + OLOK CARD OMY = «INDEX. FHELD © 201 smoeK
We MAIN INDEX, me

Fs reco. mae rine

He rie, iwoex

vie tie

(ro avoteses

FERENCEO TO THE FOLLOWING FILES:
Co FILE KUMBER

INDEXING _INFORMAT 10N,
Se Pret)
eae

COUNTRY OF BIRTH CIty/TOuN OF e1aTH

(liddte)

‘occuratiow

4 eee) (uiaate) | 201- 9le af

‘COUNTAY OF GIRTH CITY/TOWN OF gIATH
oo

CITIZENSHIP ‘occurat ion
( le ——___,

‘OTHER PEATINGNT INFORMATION

Mem be of sur oo" Revelucionariag) whe has
1 Gaw dismissed,

mane vm SLA? ae

201- 33°38 70

yet
care oF ex bee II COUNTRY z oS cirW/Tose oF (aaadkaianial
RA
Locav ies ot CITIZENSHIP
Sto 1c Q_

ete)

‘OvMGR PERTINENT IRFORKATION

evolved the olismcgisal o
satio G@ sar «A ‘a

aie TURE (Femrte Rivoluciona ra) i
TB a rere
en ee
wee Ss Rive
waned

oTmen

, a wi Pi

i Suid #£ hace Special olans fer Wo
eee , ‘ee : v

GF ate a es geese yo Sete ie

(ENT INTOMMAT ION

2022 - RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION | RECORDS ACT OF 7992] |
“SENSTUTVE VUGUMERT IRPUT RECORD —|

Po.
aoe
I



aurcrs OF SENSITIVE OOCUMENT!

THE ORTA, FURNISHED SHOULD
seraLe CONSISTENT WITH’ "HE

oo mor use THIS FORM FOR BY!

use THIS a TO FURNISH INDEXING CATA ok rae

ENTER APPROPRIATE SYMBOL 18

+ OLGK CARD ONLY veeuo @ tet mote
Hos MAIN INOEK + 7
ein

reco ree
are rieio, INDEX

4 erry.

aaa

TNDEXING INFORMAT 1ON
‘yf

(widdie)

ie Gee (uiadte) 201- Fle of v4

COUNTRY OF BIRTH caty/TOmN OF CIRTH
———

CAT IZENBHIP / ‘OECUPATION

OTMED PEATIWERT INFORMATION

Mem bu of sur E (Gow Renelucionaria.) whe kad
2 \y Gow dismisiede

p)

COUNTRY OF BIRT Civy/TouN oF BIRTH

CITIZENSHIP

Sreaa PERTINENT INFORMATION

Saty, cvdured the dismigsal of
sulio Cesar Alowse from tuRE Sita Revoluctanarta) ,

sary ) (uiddte) 20-2 39.294

eity/TOON OF BIRTH

sta mdi

Tame vantations (abe, effee, wee, 00.)

waren wee Se leave Special plans
Iagcause We. vt Tao od

13.207


i nt 1 uae tH 0 DATA OW THE
SUGIECTS OF SENSITIVE DOCUMENTS.

GFFIGERS ] f. THE OATA PuRMIeNeo swoULa ee As ComPLETE as

THITTALS bur cows seven

| 0 MOT USE THis FORM ron avant’ can

ATE @vweoe im *an® stocK

. 0 + INOEK. FHELO © 201 twoaK
ernie ras xraer,

+ rte 7. PLELO

+ FIELO, IMoEK .

a

vice Tevee

DocwauT CooE A

foocuusnt cave. THF ADDRESSES.

«FOR

FERENCED TO THE FOLLOWING FILES
Eater

INDEXING _INFORMAT 1ON

(uiddle) | 201-

Is Tty/Toem oF siete
——

=

| BBL Pinervintarvone Care, tion,

1g bezq “
whan “Cabeza

~ :
iby Fo a wimber ef Ta Natonal

tnestive Agee tu ae Ruvelivonarca te ee
a -

(uiadie) 201-

an C CouNTAY OF Bint City/Town oF binTn

CITIZENSHIP ‘occuraT iow:

(Piet) (aiddte)

OF o1RTH CouNTaY oF GraTH city/Towm oF giRTH

CITIZENBHIP

(hawt) (Prat)

COUNTRY OF GIRTH at CITY/TOMN OF BtATH

Location CIT tzensaty

Wand VARIATIONS (eho, alles, mee, of0.)

‘OVHER PERTINENT (WPORMATION

