‘104-10172-10049) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE ENT JC f
; ) ._| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

feuieettaen Raga: we

vast Were eto once been ma teaneg tf te tan tt
Sm Le SU Tae nee restore ane ee

L

fey re siete a eteretae Matay ine
Ne LC SNe 70D erg FEE te Moran gam oF

MeON-F -1-D-8-5-T-

a ee

‘ ALPORT NO. 00--B 3,161,382 |

Level Secret Conference Anong Bxiled

© 'bibaa Leedere Patls to Resolve Differences DAIL DST® 16 March 1962
Retveen Denocratic Revolutionory Front apd Popular, Pacts _
Repubdlicas Noveseuc/iivtweoiws of Tavs Towels 3

See . for Organization of Rebel Goverment Insite EMO, reinces

South

Attitudes of the Poyular Republicen Morenent Suppleneut to;
00B-3,163 ,082
DATLOF war 62 i onp-3,,178,056 S
f omo
> ce 8
ath, teem @

mn aes UNEVAL LIAN
08 citizen, free-lance writer and part tine. sugar broker.

foarce speaks Sperish, hss recidsd at intervals in Cubs

eentasts for mony years encag Subens in the sugar busine:
nes farmer Cuban political and administrative. .

: perenmalities. source lived in Bavana during the entire caleadar year

.  —-:1959, vorking with tho [Suger Stabilization Institute and collecting

: material for an enalysis of develognents in Cuba sifce Pidel Castro's
victory. ; ere :

lh ono of ny Cuban fricnts bes just told me that on or about 2, 3, ond Mar 61,

. i there was held in Washington, DC, & top-lovel, "top secret" conference of
exiled Cuban political icuders and other Cubon figures. Tke purpose or
the conference, so I em informed, ves to try tc reconcile political
aifferences among the Cuban exiles-and also to formulate pleas for the
organization and installation of a rebel goverment inside Cuba. My friend
also told me that representatives of the US Goverment vere present a% the

conference end played on important role.

2. I uoderetand that 20 Cubans attended the ebove conference. The folioving
7 . are the noses of 13 of the participants.

a. Julio lobo, the former “eugar king” of Cubs. . ‘
b. Alberto Fercdnler, formerly an inportnt “uacendedo" in Oriente
provinces ‘ : =

oe. Abel Mestre, former ovner of a telovision station end menber of
@ proninsot Cuban rently. 7 7 E .

@. Goar fectre. : : sete aia
a. Agfstino Batista, fumerly Chaiman of the Tust Co:peny af Cuba. 2
-Bergio. Cardo, forerly omer of 8. vell-knova Cubsh pevepsper.

eect

4
of
{

é
é

Seay

os

Joos Mir’ Cardona,
Carlos Ewia, "Jutentico” cendidate for president of Cuba in 1952. !

7

1. Carlos Marques Sterling, owsitdate for president of Cuba in 1958
7103,081 for data concerning reputed financial by
Qf Pulgencio Eatista to teirques in Dec

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce’

fro Bisse 428049
Tana oot

2!6R



wet gis

ia

Seago iinerng, istar Leater.

nes! inlou, leater
“et Carniet dadnation

1. Jews vere: » official of the ales
ef the eceat outbreak ef this unton a.

or it.
Ya :
\ m. Jove Ignacio Rnsco, lealer among the Christiaa Democrats. i
: i
I do Set at thio tine mow the pases of the cther seven Cubans present at. j

it
the Washington meeting. : :
the folloving plan ves put forth, to solve the differences mong the exiled
Cubans. The Bar Republican Movenent (Mu?) 1a to choose 10 ames fron
oN the ltet of 20 (1.e., fra the adcve 13 plus the seven which are una to
i - me). Of these 10. wo are to be fras."labor", tvo from the Suprece Court
ferieeey of Cuba, ent nix fran “the right and center". ‘thea, the Democratic
H Revolutionary Froat (IRF) in to choose throe acre people of their on, not
necessarily fraa the store itst. It is said that the hos alrendy msde
ite three selections aud that they are JustoCarriilc Antonio és Varons, and
Manuel Artine. Haxt, the MRP is to select tirce omes. [ on informed
that they bave decided upxi Raul chidse, Manue! Rey, and relipe Dwzca 08
their three chofces. ext, “Unidal Revolucionaria” (uR), the Christi{an
Democrats, and “other opposition groups" are to name ane person to represent
: then. ‘this makes a total of 17 nmes which will have been selected. The |
’ plea thea calls for these 17 individuels to serve as a “Jimta Executive".
puree False “Junta” vill thea naxe, fron anong its om nenbership, the Irovisional
: President of Cuba, the Proriaicnal Prize Minfeter, end the Frovisioual
Cabinet. he “Provisiccal Legislative Rody” vill be formed by the adcre 17

Sera CRICRTE Te OO

fee individuals, plus the resstaing nesses oo tha original list of 20.

a Reaction to thia plan Nas deen hostile, cong Cubans vho knov about it. Varcoa
t de not happy with it, becasse he gays that it constitutes US meddling in ~
é Cuban intefnal affatra and because the plan vas allegedly put forth by

representatives of the US Goverment. But, says Varona, he will accept it, . !
because ho sees no altersative. oop 5

5. ‘The MRP feale that the plan is too favorable to the DR? and io very wmheppy
that the US ceams to have selected Cuban nilitary officers ca the basis of
their military leadership ability ond their Lrovledge of Ingliah, rather
than @ that of their political suitability. ‘he MRP is resentful of the
treataent vhich they say haz deen ctven Kart{n [lens and his staff, nil of

vhom have apparently been ousted. ‘The MiP'is also whappy over what it
regards as too.cbvious US ducination of the vhale political effort of Cubans
in exile. In short, the MAP thinks that, under present plans, should Adel
Castro and his regime ba overthrava, the only reowlt will be the Inposition i
by the US upon Cuba of 8 govermrent unpalatable to the MRP, in particular,
end patriotic Cheng, tn gereral.

6. Wy Cuban friends inform ns that although the MIP ie dissetisfied with
things, os above, it will accept Huzberto Sori ts a ailitery” |
leader. I learned recently, by the vay, that Sori Iimr{z has becune the. i

“uilitery goordinstor” of UR. ‘The MRP is nov preporing to submit thel>

i to the ebore plaa. ‘The MRP vill propose that tne shove

discarded ani that in its place there be organtzed-a "junta". :

This “junta” would be capcead of three individuals selected by the MRP =

epi three selected by the IRF. These six people vould ther select 8 E

th, vho “rould decane the “Provisional President® of Cubs. The MRP

eccept Carriilo es this seventh pereon end “Provisional Presideat".

ons are that it knas that JustoCarrillo is really amed by the 'R?,

Bis selectioc vould pleases the IRF (vho, premmably, thinisthat

thst
it cms hin).
Cuban

2
8

|

Ej

te ress

Za

nw friends infamm ne thst the MAP objects particularly to the presence
Of isde, Batista, Rasco, Mirques Storlins, and Carto on the above list and
that it fecls strongly that the reviinder of the nmes am that list are
those of right-ami extrece right-wingers. :

C-O-N-P-I-D-E-B-T+I-A-L
Borag 30 DISSEN ABROAD

Sm eo oem a


eect FO comterer-a LAL :
ae a 00472, 181, 323 i \
a Finally, I aa told that the \t-reprassutatives at the peeting tn Banh Lagtog 3
fayiatad teat the plan aescrtial avove be acented co presestal,  Thecs 3
Sdigials aro galt to have exated that 17 the pian ta aot accepted ty ba
7 the Cubans, efforts to unseat Cast,

fo will proceet without elther the DRY
or the MRP.

wend:

CoOnNePo led b= T-AL,
. WO DISSEM ABROAD

Tree rpemren a cemres
or

LUGTED

tS een
