# 104-10018-10040

## Page 1

АЛАЛА

1704-10018-10040

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

IN-ERNAL

CONFI" NTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION

RID/AN

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

CI/RA

2C

27

2.

3.

RECEIVED

WIFA

DATE

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

.?:"

NO.

DATE

XAAZ- 17958

10 Dea 63

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

Pils

367-726

Document Number

Sfor FOlA Review on

MAY 1976

file

7.

MIS: Ree Salf. line in

red

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORA

-;

BEST

ABSTRACT

201-289248

• 0 USE PREVIOU

DITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

R:0191.5

2 34 7M 5/

....

FORWARDED

RID / MIS

DEC 5 9 43 AM '67

RUn 1ES4

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

XAAZ-17958

10 Dee 63

a Summer of Oswald Case

Prepared for

PASSATETL OR CONALD LA MONIES ELTY

Briefin

Purposes Circa lODes 6s

Exact

sate Unknown

On 1 Detober 1963, the CIA I100 Elty Atalitos intarceptes a colestiona

shons. OSHAID enld he had vlelted the sebeney the provous Beturday (29 september

1963) 9d spoten to 8 conul those mne he hal forsutters, ent to has strendand to

cond a telegras for bin to hashtagton. It mosted to lenn if thate wire tenthsag

101," The guand ease 1I the eonsul vas darte 18 vas (Valenty Vestntruvieh)

XOSY1IOT1, The guerd checked tith nomons elen ond sald that the mansng had gone

out but so nester had been recedted. He then takes up.

1u1s piece of safersation us prolucod 850s a telephana top cantas votes

se aperate jodntly uith the deflon of 120 Proaldet of Meadoo, It so bletly

secret and not leon to lesten seeurfty and lan entorsement offlotero, tha bese

theds on center. Ey 9 Ottobar, tas

(SNID telephone conrerention el 1 October

had been transertbed and a sumary of 1t onbled to tastington.

Document Number 367-726

for FOlA Review on

MAY 1976

SECRET.

CS CSPY

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 25. MAY 1975

__IMPOET CL BY J/2208

201-299245

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

• 2 0

The enbled report was resetted in lanhlagton en 9 Ofteber dad ebretes

1s or 21es, voere it sas inaltately noted that the Ion OStAID stondag the

Bertot EntRasy 11 Modoo CItY SAS DrODAbly the 101 OSSAID Ua DAl CaTestal tO

tha sortet Unden 11 1999 dad seturael to the UBA 1i 1962, Da 10 OStube 1963,

the doy after the repart from Mados Elty, CIA Headquarters vent out a enties

report about 100 ASHAlD's phone 1311 to the sondes Interay, the report vent to

tha JE7, the Departnert Of StAte (DRIBIN OBNAVD VAS A UD, CIElREA), end tO

arenates hlehlletted the likhthood that the IRs DAID nentlosed uns totably the

foster detactor. A Cogy al tila sesa dela vas lastvereal ly heral to the

linderation sal Inturalisetton series, ults slah us have so ceble 118ta 530

Bus day a long cable vent out to Huntoo elty lesßoraing ous Atation of te

background of desector lee MAID dod audas des none intentradea, Due stallos

ras inntrustod to pren ite information on the phone call do the Meadoo Esty offseas

of the 181, the Imbassy, the lured Attacho, and the Danderston and laterallestion

8es4109. Thia Mas dors.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

Ou Madoo Elty station vary often producas dustrations en U.D.

interation no but lo extremaly inorinnetlos, end an as or too oscarlors to

DETO & eVEa DARR ablO tO UPerEDEal dal JOtUrI DO ENA USA AMASIESA DALItANY

persomel us are eterpting to dotert, In ell such eases, our leadguarters

soni, roguenta end obtetan the spectal penaleston of the Defuty Direstor for plea

to pess the derogatory infosuation on a Val, estiven to other contrement enemales.

Ta vera sut IntorneS of uhat astlen the faI and other agenates way bave thikes at

that then based en our repert. Later livestlention has contiruad all the dotatto

of blo tr17, suare da obeyed, end shas he dld, to evold erosalse liari dits the

MIZ, on licklos stetlon undertost no loen Investlestlen as sta 01s, da ve soM

SA08, OSHAIA Left Meadoo on 3 October and las no longer thero too eur rapert

since tilo telephona tap operatios 1B 8 folnt ene ulta the 11ss101n

Pronidenty, the leslesas ales hal the 1 Ortober Intareept on Leo OSlAID, bust 16

apparustly alumbered in their flies untll the assasalaation took place.

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

- 4∞

23 loverabers 1983

AS 800A DO the NARA Of LOO OSSAII VEn DentIOned da CORReNtIOn tIEs the

esterolnation of Freallent Lessedy en 12 lovesher, CIA file cheats vero begta

dal ta Modern station vas ailed by cable ser nare Larriation on eBlAID.

Elthen a rook, tranty-devon onbled reparto has seat sent to the lalto liness, the

state Departaent, and the s8Z.

CIl EYela stetions proviced airy liste of lasternation durtag the vect

22 08t0n the e11019410, the lenden Elty Statos resenrebel ito delephena

tops voy thoroughly and can up roth doveral none callerstlone srotstly

ATPOVINE OSAID, but not setanlly mintloning the nue, these enacted bee

ales to the CUbIn CONNUAtO 11 MAULIO CSTY, BEVETAL INNIETNA UNTO dETESTES

and plastionad about bla dotivitles, Elving e goal sloture of that da tas seally

UD to. A host ot labrientara, sons enormous, barberted ererses euberates

ulta spurtous tips on the cano, nast of valet us investlested. All at these vene

soon alsarasited, bust they are still coning 10.

Duttag this phase of our vart, sa served situardly la support of the FaI,

elleh was entrusted by the Prentdent ulth the rajer resposalblity for the

SECRET

Investigatton. Me Departuent of Btate photograghed Ita entire file an

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

OSKAID end prased then to so, end the FAX BATO US A DOPY Of the BeTteR

CONTalET 5110 On OSKAT WElCh LAl beEa JublIely ElTes I tha Borlot sabessador

tO 8ta BeRetary el StAto, Da $51A0Y 6 DeceNDer 1969, DefEAty Altaraoy delaTel

Battentach sorted un to rundou the Isl'a cantreheatve report on the cars to

salte nure or soureda vare not fosperaland and that our inforsation tan carrently

qoted, do found the repart hlehly interenting un sa threat to due ascretty, es

Jong en It sas read only by the nuthardoed leventigativo badles.

APter the 1178% fON dOJA, tA EIl Intentlention of the cano ten bentlea

At Isadquartera by a stars Usually ehzged us VIta LIVABtlENtION DUl MATyOlo Of

the nort importent security cases, cad by officere nad analyste el Des leBtera

Bensophere DITtesos.

Beerts fren Mades

As BORn es O1 Meadoo fity station realised that len DEADO Dus the priso.

suspest, 1t began re-serening all the unitten talephone trentarioto 1o 160

slos a covering the sortet inbadly for the portinent pertod. The notual taper

vore alss revlones, but snay of them had been, ersnal after the namel the whets

MALt. BOVETEl CALLE DeLLONEl tO INVOLVO OSMAID VENE ALECOVered MR dal thats

SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET

• 6.

contents ashlal to unilarios, verso they vera elesentrated to the latte

OSMATO a sane sas not astually nantlanal 1a thare additlanal cello, burt

alm11er1ty 0l 89980s eal sarlons plala polate ol content linis then to bla, saese

celle are mamertood seion is eturnalester ander, They cover than ported fro

21 Seytenber 1969 tO 1 DETODER 1968, tie UROLA MURRA OI INHALD'S TLONE tO Mascles

I Bestater - A ma phones the sortet Maltary Attaches and dega do

senda a vles to go to alanca, Ma tasterlag esya be ehould call 15-60-55 dad

ast for the fonsul, Caller unka fer toe address, and It 10 eftaa to stel.

I DepenDer, A103 14 - Don Cater Commulato phanal the pontos cosecrato.

812911 DATES, HesteRa DAtlocal elens of the OURs Campulato talbed to a sovlet

affledel, enuine that a sade duertora eltion ves ed the tuban connuato adding

for a tremnit vias to pasa thronga fuse on bla say to the sovlet tadoss, See

vats to loon to than do talial la the sortet Consulato and uto Bald san be morela

bate Do problem abort 1t. Il 8 Sortet VIes la estured, the Cuben Consulato

SECRET ES COPY

201-289248

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

• 7∞

con grant sin a transit r2oa and atrply potily fabin sunsigratios authoriales.

Don sertet fitrat arts her ta unit, end them obo has to esplala the unale thing

ever agala to esother sortet essoles, tho taken her taleghana sunues und

soviet the bareels has sured and tires her ten eddress for the soutet salesty

nto suts out the Dullotia) to Eito bia tha unn aólreas end ho extra the tue Eutrea

asdo har taleghans samber.

tella her that the "Arenton" bad bera to see tize sortet'e und aborn them a

setter Bron the Borhot Conmete in Wahlagton dulletling that ha bad been

salttag foR tas for himsel! end blo rife to Do to the Boulet Undon dos a long

t171a, but that so ensuar bad sona sion tahlagton, alding tent the valt us

SOnNEL fOUr eS AlVe Lanthe. Tha "inerteen" had shorta the sortets & Lotter

shones be tia a newber of in andration 1a fester of tales and hal elemed that

the CUbENs ONUlA Dot EIVA DIE A TOS MITRONE A EUBBLER TIES. BLIVIO DURAN

72.:

SECRET

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

rejoins that they have tie sume Isoblems cos

51005° 10 86122 es the

Cornerate, they rossaot esta bia e tramade than enlena do lo easteral of a sendet

VIEs, oren thongh so just vents to do to tars do valt there dor bis bordet thos

BorRot 00sa1a100 8y 89y158, "Dostars do lo

Consulata, the toys that aha bas tha daertena dila der deada, Sue borrot

entertag asies des to volt, than ductions sorter takers to the stors, alieta pursa

the lisa pa, she lutedera tutes to tall Bundes to the Donsen too entrters

1a Stella, The luertons ardon sla to sport Runelia, Dos Anarlos Nege thats be

has been in the soviet Intesty end anaben unth the Consel, and that thary had

taten dis address. The Borlas taylles that le suorn turk. Sue Antriess tues

est, esmendant enguntfeally "I All not been ll EDen, I rest do the Ellen

Babanay to ast then far ty aldress beeruse they hase 16," the sovlet invites bie

to stop to egala end elve teen the eltress, sna la lantana derace to do so.

SEGRET

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SECRET

• 9 •

(In tide osiverantion, the lardon vas apending handly rocopelessle sader)

Satesales again until Sunday, 1 Ortober 1005. She interventag deya vero o

Sunday sud & MiAy, Ius CoNteNts al tla Later astrA sona ta shou be dia sos

contact the Soviets en thas thase days.

LOstobere 10131.111 - A Man callo the BoThet Illitary Attache ia beaten

tunaten and days be had best at thatt plase the sirendous saharday (28 sastrider)

and talked to thats fosted, they had nold thay world want a telesten to mashingtes,

and he wanted to know is theme were anything new. the sortete else has to enll

mother shone sinher end Eltes his 1960-59, saylog to unk for a casel.

tora alse sal untos uns theselore cablad to Dahlestela 0s 9 Detober 1968-)

L0e OSAID salled the sortet Inhanty end amounted ble on mens, saylag ba bat

walted than the prorious slturday and spolun sits a consul. Suny bas eale they

vould sens o taleeran to lushingtar, end he vented to lan 18 there were anytadog

new. He did not remember the same of the Consul. The Bordet, sha van Estess

guard OYSION replied: "SOs304, de lo ders." OlATo reputed: "Jes, ou

SECRET

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SEGRET

• 20∞

ths guard repited they had out a raguant but that nathing has deez recaitel

es yut." OlAID started to 8001 "lad that...", tut the Border lug up.

2.001919 1969 1 sus appelins bochas partes el Pirit and than segasia

plomas the sortet Milttary Astas

ated about a il

Zao Attachs'o offlos

referzad bola to the consulato, Elviag tha number 15-6

sho carlor scote st

A att anothee i

heat vasther the caller

could dos a rita, int the conteration endol. (uto to to pyrotes peans to

11O tALO LA HIth OSVALE, SÃO LE DON MIOSA DO DATO SE CATErAl the U.A, at larado tha

no вay.)

Bince the operation taronel indeh no ten the portel Racany sbanca le

Morteo elty lo managed solatly unth thi estlee of the frentdent of Miscleo, the

OTONmAtLO On LAS OBHAID ALDO CONa tO

estenttos of Iros

asdent LOPES INste

austar 22 Horenber.

orember, ho carted 1t to the etteniton et

our colos of statios, tho uns aiready

ng fevertelly en the cese, Etalzersy,

the Nesdeans notteed the tuvolte

mont of Coles CoRAULEs eMpleyeO BILVLA DURAI, O

SECRET

---

## Page 13

13-00000

SECRET

• 23 =

abort OSKAID, Son fresless eutharitles has the dea 1800 end whe and her husband

vere arrested en 29 Hovenires 1963, 10 199 slAEl el l DArty It thoRT hoRa. All

tho gunato vero nosa releasal but Blare and bar hasband vase prendered end

SALARIAR eN 85 IlTenDer 1969.

pollen interrogation that uten eStATA von nanol do dan desecala al preoddent

Semato, bie o250 has recogntead the nas and recalled the had ratted as clinto

ess dealt with the Bordet condulate as mail to flal ant tether be had e soviet

T103, BOTROTO DUBAI TESAIZES DIA ULRO HAS AN1A OBNATO BASTIA NETY ELA ASA HAA tO

call out the tubes Comes, satablo AlEui, to gates bire.

8S1IN4a, DUAl told tha 183a etory. le vas a settlot sympattleer vita

Gubs end bad vurtued for the Hastent euben Institute of Cultural Relations. Ele

recalLed OHAID well, desortbed him securately, releted hey he had tuated a Cuben

Tos but could not get to ulthout the suturence of a serlet tied, end rembered

Do t185 vita tho consel, She edtitted tus hid showed the sortet sabassy ebert bit.

SEGRET

---

## Page 14

13-00,000

SEGRET

to ute contra thas CANAID uns sa lizaRon to Bet e Cubas visa so La coula tele

In Cuba for' his Boutet vize, Sas Santet Connilar file passad a to the stato

Departuent In Hartfagton by the antunt Eubasay conflens a long exchange betrees.

Strat, 103. Martas ONAD, 0uß Intar Ser 1a

mubarl, and the sortet Contulate in

shington arous thet

wents fir turalasion to not

Maico the Sortet Unto

OSHALD Uns Mill miting to the Bordeto do lenitagton.

bout toão as late as

9 tav 1968.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

SECRET

Dro shats quatlén es

Vita the Daviaso de Catass

para of

the evidence 2nd1

02a 9645 03

201-289248

---

## Page 16

13-00000

SECRET

18 4 13

Fath

e aulente a ese

on 198

ASFo

ad the par

M. C2 69 118

todar bao 300. 00a

ão trip to fortra ser separante

18 san tin

ho cosa auty. 2or di Vitato

Tunes Et

In 1, se 00u not anno, dal dio unen do di ti noi in a ne a

San Orleane to Farsese

:15019

SECRET JA

---

## Page 17

13-00000

SECRET

Lay hando on it when ho ma da the Boviet Consulate that day, Partage be

had emiler sive the androso to allvia bunal sad muted to 2o0% it up on her

A porterlarly stoletor asport of OSTAlD'a dealingo vita the sovloto sa

maraco city

oes frun the 11a1thool that he mint tith Sortet Connal Valerty

(201-305052

In Alo 1 cotobor

on to the Bortet Embassy, ti

aste that the consol cstato had tallid to vas tos

tas dazz: "

Ato doeme to agree vsta tate, but the tiantifloation do very casua

Do tdo 2 Reventor Lotter to the Sortet Consulato in Mobinston, ClAce sivee the

name of the men to dont sith en 106s," buo chare to no person of shes enmet

credited es a Consular

Attache end does notarty do a lot of countar vork ent no la boom; on the

bosto of hia posttion, sosc

ectivity, to be e Bortet i3) offloor, end thine le roamon to belteve, on the

baste of val infanatton, tant do tone for benargent le or the kul, the ei

Department charged with sabotage and ensuntnatte

SECRET:

---

## Page 18

13-00000

SECRET

Entassy surd Ivon trautch Ouroy lo hinsals bellered to be a l0s

man from previous asalementa as a bodyguart nal survelliant. But unlese dess

dinos evtienco of soulet compliesty 1s Alecormal, 1t to most 1110015 that.

(SLAID'S DENINg DAtA EUS MA OBTEDDY end HOSTINOV MAn nothing noTe than a erte

colastience, a entroldence due is part to the serdot habit el plantag intelligence

MEn 1a the LibaDales In positiona the

they towa

nava a largo portion of the

vostora and phone callo. All of tua

Live consen o

1200r8 in tho soviet Salend

ото tok

sun It sa not unil sor a

AB &

on i penaltive mission to have aunt overt content vich a soviet

ibunny, top snaret Boviet intelliganos decur

anto which aut forth N121t0z

Intelligense dostrina state that vary supartent egate can bo set 11 08f80122

Instellettons untug as cover for thess sterene there nowa sort of open

bustness, Ines, vallo 1t 18 unitsely Most OStilD's estates veth the sortet

anasty hed a nore stil

SECRET

---

## Page 19

13-000,00

SEGRET

some Insteit on the u

Of ELIVLe DURAN 03&

the invalvent of sha cubaa consulate in the Ostito dona cos Do

Intercepted phone calle nado betueen Cuben Prestient GovaldO DOREICOS end Cuben

Ambassador to Marico Joaguin HI

11Z AZURS OR 85 ION 1969, 209 dAY after ELlis

DUFAN Nan ralensed seen her firut arcoat. At OPINO AM that mori

DORICOS phoned the AnDasundos dEtes Have

von and anted him arveras quaitions sbout a

report tnton the Ambassador had sout in on the arrest ol sLIvia DURin end the

JAS CONTAID case.

ma thole tot

Paon TEA

vit with the

tha

CHARD nerely vanted e vil

the alterustion which

OSAID bed vith tonsul AllUB, ent he tys that Mertesa pollos bruleed stavia

DURAT*E BrIS a 11EEZO shaking her

th the asportanse of thods

questions. Tasy hat cited her 19

the had been inti

dented it. Pronident It

SECRET

---

## Page 20

13-00000

SECRET

246253164

"ara" sad the treatent even

my mated to tro tones

Perod Silvia L

83 029302 19 pot dorns Na.

te tastese

So 7139 I tass evados Atoman Enames due call final

crete 20 to odd, Pestloat Doiacos severe to the don

the

Paco La ron sory to the tonset Mopen male tunine

masts persinta la nomitorstentias bonozen, enna an to beatfies

A76 65731

"iscolately nothing ann cran to has," actio

- 30772

said tie.

SECRET

---

## Page 21

13-00Q00:

SECRET

XAAZ-17958

10 Des 63

O1ty s1th about $5,000. PEshAyo INVICUS uns tryday to lorem deather too

Badam palles ballered thas the outma bad tinned OVAID. Is diy erect,

so the Cubon loverwant sent the lentorns a stif note af stutest over the

arrest md dotention ol Blive DURAI, but the loxlonas rejested the rate.

ThAlloy telephonad end inatated es eperising to soviet Antanador to Nesdoo sArAel.

5510, =

a on prosident semedy'o eas

DA VIAHOY

ben taugh

CS COPY

SECRET

201-28920101

---

