‘Toa 10066-10133) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

(

fal

Cc

lan

Pieteeet .

%

“yar : SECRET FRPS:) pepe pe

: ‘STAFF
CONFs C/LA&B INFO ODPD=b,. VR, FILE, (DDO=G, “CvCIR=4, -CHEPSIEGR2,°

C/EUR@=6, C/OG/DMS, C/PCS, SAPCOLL OE? “C/PCE/PGLa .DD0/D0r OLCy. (32/P)..

ewe ewneensnvcscenseseessece: OEE Pewee wrasse reese sescesEesesereresecen:

78 1538613 PAGE 001
TOT? 082334Z .NOV:78: piRectoR "323590.
cee wememeneemeneccen scene sewcneeecnensenecssenecenorcronsccnscesressoreren:
SECRET
STAFF 0623312 DIRECTOR ‘323590 : \

TO: PRIORITY MADRID INFO MEXICO -CITY,
WNINTEL ‘RYBAT KDAFGHAN

REFS; A, MADRID 90822
B, MEXICO CITY 46098

1. HOUSE. SELECT ‘COMMITTEE ON -ASSASSTNATIONS’ (HSCA) HAS:
ADVISED HOS THAT THEY DESIRE INTERVIEW KDAFGHAN?4- (K/1) ITN CONNECTION
WITH JHIS DUTIES AS 'PoA, OF ‘THE. PHOTO ‘SURVEZLLANCE! OPERATION (IN “MEXICO
CITY, EMPHASIS WILL: ‘PROBABLY BE:ON ‘RERTOD SEPTEMBER=OCTOBER (1963.
WHICH COINCIDES WITH VISIT ‘TO MEKICO CIETY OF: LEE: HARVEW OSWALD, .

2. ‘HSCA_INITIALLY PROPOSED ‘TO::SEND. THO: INVESTIGATORS :TO:'MADRIO
TO CONDUCT INTERVIEW OF: K/1 UTILIZING ‘STATE: DEPARTMENT: :COUNTERSPART:
FUNDS SINCE: THEY HAVE)NO° FUNDS’ .TO ‘BRING K/1: TO U.S: FOR INTERVIEW,
IN_VIEW PRESS REVELATIONS CITED REFS, ‘AND! TO: PRECLUDE: ANY “FURTHER
PRESS PLAY WHICH COULD BE GENERATED BY ;-PRESENCE: HSCA STAFFERS 'IN
MADRID/HQS WILLING TO BRING. K/4. TO USS. AT AGENCY ‘EXPENSE TO°FACTLI®
FATE INTERVIEW -AND AVOID ADDITIONAL ‘PRESS ‘EXPOSURE: ‘THIS, “OF ‘COURSE,
PREDICATED ON K/1 WILLINGNESS TO SUBMIT* TO INTERVIEW BY HSCA,

‘3. IN VIEW PUBLICITY DIRECTED AT:-K/1 ‘AND: FORMER: STATION ‘STAFFERS
REQUEST MADRID POSITION ON SERVING AS MIDDLE=MAN FOR.:HSCA: WHICH WOULD”
CONSIST OF CONTACTING K/4 AND PASSING. HSCA INSTRUCTIONS :AND:;FUNDS FOR
TRIP TO U,S, WOULD ALSO WELCOME ANY ALTERNATIVE SUGGESTIONS “TO:
EFFECT INTERVIEW OF K/1,.

4, FILE3. 201<0288208, -E2, IMPDET.>-
ORIG:  C/LA/ST B/W, STURBITTSECC: (RED@9127, GREEN@321507 sCODRD: |.
AC/LA/MGSB (LEHMAN@DRAFT) 7 LC! (PC/HSCA) (BRECKINRIDGE *DRAFT)3 (PCSZPGL
(SHEPANEK@TELECOORD)? LA/ST O/ BEF CINFO)# CVEUR/IB: (BERGER)? ‘AUTH
C/LAD (WARREN)? RELs ‘C7EUR (STOLZ), ‘CL: BY 012180.

END -OF | MESSAGE ‘SECRET:

age]
