atu

bb pa=wsarreemp
104-10111-10094|

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE | SIDE! :
E THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 199; }
2

7 -

employment 28 8 Type A part time employes. In August 1958 Subject
advised that she wae divorcing her husband and wished to be reinstated
as a regular staff employee. Her reinstatement wad approved and in
November 1959 she was tr: pack to Washington, Dp.C., PCS.
During ber employment in! she was under over. Back in
Washington she w29 assignes ww wwP/ WH, Support Stat, Juogistics
Section. 2 Poecieseee

6. In April 1960 Subject legally resumed her maiden name.

7. In May 1960 Subject was certified to the state Department
in connection with ninety day proposed ‘'TDY in Havana, Cuba with
IMARG; and in October 1960 she was transferred from Havana to
Guatemala. : : ; : ieee jt —teeticnseetseitiee

8. In November 1960 Security was advised that according to
information from ‘the Project" (presumably JMARG) Subject bad, -
while in Cuba, allegedly been having affaire "with the three people”.
who were ‘incarcerated in the Cuban jail". This allegation very poo-
sibly was exaggerated and from information in the file may have been
untrue. However, & Security officer da the Project seemed definitely
under the impression that me had been having an affair with one of

8)
them, i.e pave CHRISTY nd was of the opinion that her "immoral"

behavior was " a pro! fe contributing factor" to then recent arrests) —

of Agency personnel in Cuba. According +0 { ther version, appar=
ently hers, she went out one evening with(C T) and on other oc
casions had group social contact with him and with two other TsD
technicians who arrived in Havana three days before she left to go to
the United States on leave. On the Saturday night prior to her depar-
ture on Sunday, she and her two roommates, she said, entertained
these three men in their apartment.

9. In Guatemala, Subject met and dated a Ronald Stanley

DAVIE, an American who was “wanted” by the FBI for car theft and mail
fraud. According to Subject she found this out by checking "tne files"
and reported it to her superiors. ‘Also according to Subject, "It was
decided" that there wae "po real harm" in continuing her relationship
with this individual "as long as I kept on guard"; and she continued to
date him until the day he suddenly disappeared from Guatemala City
on 24 January 1961. She had, in fact, expected him for dinner the even-
ing of the day he disappeared. : ’ E

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only =» =" ~~~
Do Not Reproduce 7

