# 104-10172-10097

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10172-10097

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

WHEN FILIED IN:

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIOMS

1.

PRIOR TO FILING

Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back

flap and forward to RID.

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it

rocords significant action taken or

comments reguiring preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BrANCH

If file no. and titlo sbor are not

proper, Insert proper sile so. balou

and sortard ducument to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RIDIAN

TO. ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPALITE

COMMENTS

TO

SAS

ESC

-SAS REGISTRY

ROOM

NO.

C0M.00:10

25 APR 1963

SAS/OPS/SUPPT

20/yC3

ED

1417

COPY DETACHED 2 # APR 196a

SAS/MOB 27 MAY 163 27 MA ,

QuY 2I MAY 18E3

2f la keep

(1

10

тт.

:2.

13

14

15.

16

17.

RIO/FI

TRACE

ACQUIET

RECORDS OFFICE? STAKE

The follos1ng astlos 18

authorised:

S17748:

Отні 03

P. 0. 82÷5

69-14

raadon: 40151-5315979

ADDORACT

- go

PILETIPLE

PiLT

ar coor,

101-251853

V/BR

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

ME BECRET

CA10S, TUSCHi

calot, Special Alfalrs StaII

chlof of Station, JHAVE

SUBJECT

.: TBRUTEN

rARERittal Of LOPLUTTER Resulta - 'ANDENIWA

ACTION REQUIND. REFLRINOIS

PRU

POSED

PROCESSING

Астюм

MUTTO FOR INORTURS

ассон

PUSHED

# 55064

herewith (RYBAT) are the LOPLUTTER rOBulta

(301-251853).

2. Fortarded under separate cover are the Identitios of

the abore sentionod roport.

BRD OF DISPATCH

Attachrento:

A.

ROpOrt RYBAT

B. Ideatitles RYBAT

Distribution:

• • susona alatt a hu: B use

3 - SẠ8 7/o atts.

CLASSIINCATION

DATE TYPED

DATE DESAATCHED

18 Apr. 83 AFR 2 ¿ D03

DESPATON STARDOL AND NUMER

UPGA- 8493

201-251853

---

## Page 3

SECRET

RYBAT

*55068

15 Apr1l 1969

Subjoct: ANDENDI/L

at a safo aíto In the Miani ares..

The intorview wag..hc

English language.

KIGGINS sonitored the major part of the

intorvior. ALDENiH/l has a POl and an Ol has been requested.

A major purpose of the intervier vas to try to detorolio

Subjeat's vlow of his relationship blth. nubark.

The test

Itself oovered foreign intelligenoe couuunise and the

possibillty of Subjoct's cousection with any persoù or group

which ho ras dellberatoly concealiug fros durala.

RESULTS

AIWENIM/1 1s not and has not been intolred ilth any.

nOn ODYONE Intelligence servioe.

He has not baen. lavolred

do any concunist cotivlelos. He does not have ady coupeo-:

tions with any persons or groups which he is dellberately

connealtog fron dubali.

Subjcot mentioned his involvenont

vira the UNIDAD LEVOLUCIONNILA and the COMARIO L-66 (CI-66)-

BSCKOROUND

Subjeot has beon in touch with XUBARK rEpreSeNtatIVeS

61200 January 1959.

CUrIODE XUBARK effOrt 1s direoted

tovard atteupting to assert a grester degree of control.

over Subjeot.:

The history of Subjeot's association with

KUBURK has largoly been a history of his atreapt,to assort?

hia Independenoe - not only/KuBaRi but also of any 'Cubin

exile group he oould not biasell control... In the: past....

Subjeot has consistently refused to acoept an LefLuttER.

I1 the KUbANK IllGa aro an cocurate representation of

nitrit/l's notives, they portray a man dedicatod to tree..

Ing cuba - but on his ora toms.

DETAILS

The oxaniner begen the intervion ly soving Subjeot uby

he had do constatently objected to LiPLuTtER.

In a rather

rambling way Subjoot statod that he sar biasell as an

"ally" working sith ODlOKt to bring about the end of Castro.

Ho resisted any attempt to put his

in & position where ho

would feel that

he was an employee of lusitato pon saue

oldered LIPLUTTER a BYADO! of

the lors of h1s. ladopendence.

The orariner thon asked 1r subjoat seant thet he did not

went to leel himals dontratrol", norerthelors what do ven-

to tho use of tle vord

A'DENm/1 objeoted Ailuntie

SECRET S

66:5

7: 5 L

-=7--563t5

11-4

V/RR

---

## Page 4

SECRET

RYBAT•

#55084

15 April 1969

Page 8

About thila, polut..

are naking a bottor living going through the notlones

sor KUBIiK than they ever dld before and KUBRk'e choloe

of Cuban leadors - ANTINE and the convers of the CONSEIJO.

throughout the entire Intervier, Subjoot don-

trasted

his suoceseos with tho fallures of other KUMARK

dirooted efforts.

Ilo contrastod the pre-invasion firet

toas case offloors mith the post invasion acoond team.

If the oxamined 1s allored to sula up the underlying,

but novor cloarly expressed,

frase of reference whiot

Subfcot sees, It would bo

tl18: Prior to the intasion,

KUlInK workod with tho Cubans in an atteupt to defeat

Castro.

Ever sinoo the luvasion, sUlarl has inoreasingly.

noved in the diroction of using the Cubans for ends uhloh

aro orton oloudod. In taking the Lt'LUTTER Subjoot y

signaled his acoeptance of the new order.

Ho has: apparnntly

doolded that vithout KUBANK old, he oan do nothing -

although he 1a ot1ll not suro what can bo done vith 1t.

He was willing to su on reoord by rospording in the affira.

tivo to the question

asked on the toat.:

"Do you foel that KUlARk's hancling of the Cuban

situation has

been 1nopt?"

Subjeot Moule not cooperate vita sUBAll.

Wa burnet coate anne capi, ir

he (AMDENN/1): roOOlved Information thlon he kneW Hould ve

of Interest to KulAlk, would ho refrain fron reporting 1t

11 he deolded it vas

base to report.

Ho noted that nost Cubana know of his ::

relatlonship with KUlArk and they would rafrain tron tolling.

his anything they did not want to reson kulara.

In addition to questions rolating to foreiin intelligonce

and communian Subleat vas astieds

Exospting the Ui und CL-60,

are you involved with

any othor politioal of revolutionary group?

Do you have a ralationship dith any person or group

shion you aro

doliberately concealing frow. XUBAlk?

Have you used any KUBARK funds in Boy unauthorized

Banner?

This question moant had ho used KillAlk funds

for anything forbidden by KUBAlk)

---

## Page 5

SECRET

RYBAT

Have you had

&55081

15 April 1988

Page 3

any knowledge of any uasuthoriso

Subjeos anamered in the nogatire to all and there vas

no indiaation of dooaption.

No1th D. SINSFT

EDDORIS DRICER STAP

Ni rolleries netlon is

ESpun 03

"sit

SASAGG

:: ====0=4771911k

SECRET

685 OF 1

414+-1

VBR

---

