# 104-10169-10332

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10169-10332

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FOUTING LND RECERD SHEET.

PRIOR TO FILING

1..

back. Delgeb back

maid to

RID.

2.

Desires

4=38

corer

sheet. unless 1t

Mistis

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title show are not

proper, insert proper file no, below

and formard docunent to RID/AN.

FRON:

1.

TrE/

PROPER FILE NO.

ason

ню

DeCRINEO

DATE

коптильото.

LITIALO

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES O

PILE IN BECTION I ON BACK. I ARROGA OUT LEE ONLY

RETURN TO

MNGROFILMED

Not Reproduce

JUN 19 1961

.?

DOCUMENT MICROFIA! SERMICE

1072/

8/5

½-%

BF

talie the ban

lied, grease IT hop

9/5

WA

WE-ViCE

IC/NE%

This case?

Ta rare jets

12.

12

RIlAN

1s.

A NISE TRIS DOCUMENT TO RIDI

W

FOR MICROFILMINO BEFORE

IT IS FILED. IF TIMS DOCUMENT IS TO BE RESTRICTED, CHECK

RESTRICTED TO

17.

RIDAT

FiR TITLInit Designation

C557/CE - For k'ng/n20 39/911

INDEX

VIX

Nine agent.

IMMIMANY COOLI

T019855

3301-294855

207-302030

LINCUMEN NUMES

05054

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

10

1

rY

Crier, Sa

14-1

JeN 19

FRoM pjshles of station,

Falsinki VY

SURVECT

HENCHEACLESOVE - Looting of Harry Miors sa. Jik

(k. 19 Sept. 1930 in elsinki) ans inatoiis disraylä

vich #KLIÜCK (201-221955) in leniazrai

ACTION ROUTED

_ MI

REFERENGESI

15 115-0601 X ONE

MADOO FOR NODUNG

NO ADDONG ISQUIRED

MODUNG CAN DE NOGE

iT QUAURED HQ DESI ONLY

5048, 21 April 1961

1.

Transuitted herewith are the allowing:

do

A five-page renort of socalla's interrogition of Harry Allons

SU::DVIK on 25 ipril 1961

Bo A twapago manorandum iron dilula covarine icines no had forgotcan

during the interrozation

whon reading the attacied internation roport, thare are a number

of points to be noted.

First of all, si fiä's first story wus a lie aid it

was only when he was pressed ty ROODING ta: lia wade any dition of his rootings

wịth Lliov.

Inereforo, this story could ba only lia sooni lino of dotunso

and not a true stury of

second, the story doos not attdipt

to explain why, when juiluVlk had a ween off frun work (inus jiurday, 8 april

to Sunday, 16 Appil), ha only spent tho four ¿iddle duys on lis trip Instaud

of utilizing the rest of his tima.

mird, my NIhOV forsiscod until tho last

moment and kade arrangemants to sea SUNDiTi again socially in ialsinki if lia

had roally "lost his grip" to sUNoVIk's superior arguuones and hosello attitudo

as SUNDVIK statos.

Anywit, to say the loasi, no aro lot soddy to accopt suNdili's

story as it stands.

so las been asked to writa out 1n dotail, at leust five

single-space typewritten pages, the history of lila contades with iLINov. No

will check this paper against the report in hand, for a sturtor.

3. VALINK/6 1s toing kept informad ur the dotills of tills caso.

agraas with RoODlili that tiere is a good dail nore tian las toon suvaulad so

far. (By the way, wo migit mention that this is anothor casa in wilch V.LI:K/6

and the help of the VALINK organization have toen invaluablo.

mhey nave provided

full background roports on all concurned, and lava boun survuilling. SUrdVIk

off and on ever sir: we expressed our intarast in liim.)

4. Ao jar as KLINOV's statements alout COSTILS aid HOODINT gol this

o was only to be exuucad and does not surprise either of timo für the history

of COSTILLE's previous encounters with KlaTiV, seo OFHA-4yi1, 20 tarch 1961.

POODINE MAC haS never mat KLINOVe

The Ambussador, the Counselor, ta Scurity Officor and the Gonral

Services Ufficer (SUNDVIK's immediato boss) ara d'viro of this casa.

rogation took jilace.In the Security Ufficer's oliloe.

UnLy HUODINi and sU DVIK

were present, but FURSTUSS was in tie adjoining office listaning through the

We atill lave not figured out exyctly loy to haidio dis cago.

will eventually lu diamissed, but le houid like to sut anio maro infornation

before we lot to of tilin.

angag, siroy to lida roun workdin; it ilo Embassy

Binco 1y49 thoro is not uch to ba yined hy threwing him out touorrow.

has volunteered tit ho will be sering NliUV In tho roxt low dugs to colloct

tho buttlo of vodka mentionod on pago fivo un Attachmont à,

sil we mould like

so hoar thio story of tho manting.

it ta insulble that no mirit dais tor aislatanoo

tO LULUTTER SUN VI,

If this in feäoltle, iiion a lot adaic la luarnad from

(JUNDVIKe command of inglish 10 excallant, ta dacuust abtachmont b,

malue lio propare ly himaals,) Une thire na do not incort lu puroat, assu

that 1o a doul la-nant opuration.

considarlin the pundtlon.lu Muldo, JUruVIK

do too dungarous to id., He oan Just Inasino KulHOV Iloki lila droja wire lo strat

6.034255

70-8.

unt

PARVHHIS BUNTION.

CLASSIPICAIHIN

REPLACES NONS

3/BR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

scised into Sit!Is taciaround itor jarlial intorijon, see referencajo

Eera is a finis esciojoe el tie ¡coricis is'üsay dila tatarin access (ey

the dircaiien di lie dericansi to iliiis oisico

knows all us souriers j'erschally ani aiso ras suciidio tictation on their

tie sail ander ancut tie idissy ol:icas lozcapt the jtation' s,

of courso) air.ost at sill.

ie would aüve iren suritised if miere saun't tuen

any ricruitient aste pt.

he simt wint uit :on tide L''o auora does not only

apply to su wiIX lut to soverel otter Finish erplojas as veil. do this consec

tion, plaajo noto tie last farajraya ol atticient do

the vali is on try so a reat resent a enlal a der sort - tia

vill ba transituad text veed.

ão night nuto, lonorer, Liar sor fathor, Kalle

Edvard SKiTTLA, bors 17 Harch 1903 in Joisko, 18 a larg-ilos Connunist with

an imprassivo police scord.

MADIKE S. PURSTUSS

Attachaants:

As statod in pura. 1

Distributions

O d

2 - 8E, u/atta, singlo copy oach

2 - SR, w/atta, singla copy each

2 - Holsinki; u/att8.

- 14-1

Harry alfare tie Eil i.

19 sept '30; Helenke, Finland

lubj's interrega tri sepast se:

contacts wo/dnatel. y Mibhuylo-

wich KLINOV (201. 294855), mr.

pect RIS.

(201-274855). Report on sly'+ con-

treete w/Hurin Beefas SUNDVIK,

in Leningrand a Finland)

- 1/BR

---

