“'404-10095-10151) [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J .

Introduction: After examining the evidence of Nosenko's mala

fides in the notebook, which I assume to be the best evidence,
although not all of it, I am convinced that Nosenko is a bona fide 7
“defector. I believe the case against him has arisen and persisted

because the facts have been misconstrued, ignored, or interpreted’

without sufficient consideration of his psychological failings. 7 om
-recommend that the case be reviewed by a naw team of CIA officers. i
1. There are several references in the Nosenko notebook to the ex- |
‘tent and quality of the intelligence he provided. In the 25 March

1964 memo to DDP, it is asserted that "A comparison of his positive
intelligence with that of other Soviet Bloc intelligence officers -
with whom we have had an operational relationship shows that all of

them were consistently better able to provide useful. positive intelli-
gence than has been Nosenko." Tab D of this same memo states “His
positive intelligence production is practically nil," and later:

“viewed overall, however, NOSENKO's positive intelligence production

has been so meager for a man of his background, treining and position
as to cast doubts on his bona fides, without reference to other
“eriteria." All of these statements are incorrect. ;
2. There are three petsons in the Clandestine Service with the
background and experience to make this judgment. . None was consulted
- negarding these evaluations of Nosenko's production and access. °-ALL?~
agree that they are incorrect. No KGB officer has been able to” :

provide more useful intelligence than Nosenko has; intelligence

ond

: oreney,

teeene cee sol



usefulness of all KGB officers (perhaps all Cl officers) is
"practically nil". Golitsyn's was nil. This is apt to be par-
ticularly true if a requirements officer is not directly supporting 7
the case officer, as was true in the Nosenko case. Viewed in the
proper context, therefore, Nosenko's intelligence production cannot
be used in his defense, but neither can it be said honestly to cast
any doubt whatsoever on his bona fides, ee the judgment regarding
his. bona fides must therefore be made on the basis of his counter-
intelligence information.

3. Before commenting on the counterintelligence case against
him, I feel there are some aspects of his personality analysis by the
psychiatrist which have a much stronger pearing on the case than ts

apparent in the notebook. The psychologist's report is. only mentioned

BS

in passing in the notebook, but it too may shed light on the validity
of evaluations of Nosenko's counterintelligence information which
bear on his bona fides. The psychiatrist is indirectly quoted
(presumably only in part) in the 11 May 1964 status report as follows:
"NOSENKO shows significant indications of a serious personality ais-
order." "The sociopathic aspect of his character apparently explains
his inattention to ‘objective fact'..." Once these conclusions

are reached by competent authority, the interrogator and CI analyst
are out of their elements. It is hardly likely that a person with

a serious personality disorder, inattentive to objective fact, will

be able to provide the sort of substantial information which would

inspire faith in him. Neither is it conceivable that he would be



selected by the KGB to carry out even one of the several rnc
missions which he is alleged to be on in the West. The substantive
evidence that he is not on any mission is given below.

4. The March 1964 memo to DDP concludes that "Those of us who
have worked with Nosenko cannot accept that he is other than a KGB
Plant." This statement is also incorrect. The only officer who
worked with Nosenko who has any depth of experience with Soviet
agents--Kisevalter--does not accept this. No doubt the psychologist.
and psychiatrist who worked with him would also dissent. Who, then,”
accepts this insidious conclusion? Only Me of the officers who
warned with Nosenko had any prior experience with one of _ Soviet

agents, and that was not ia the field of counterintelligence. None

‘of the officers was qapcri oe a in counterintelligence against the

USSR. The initial judgment that Nosenko was a plant was made by the
officer with the least Soviet experience, a bare two weeks after the
initial contact with Nosenko, on the basis of "careful comparison of

NOSENKO's information with that provided by Anatoliy Golitsyn..." ‘

“This is an incredible a tee of inexperienced personnel and

crucial decision.
5. There are three most important items of information in
Nosenko's 1962 revelations to us. ‘Only two ‘are discussed in the

notebook, so I shall begin: my comménts on his CI information with

the one which was omitted from discussion: te tasestece etteett otic



A. Boris Belitskiy - Nosenko told us that this Soviet agent of

ours had been under Soviet control since our recruitment of him. :
This was startling news to most persons who had worked on this case.

We recruited Belitskiy in 1958 and held our second series of meetings
with him in London in August 1961. At that time I worked very closely
with the case officer and polygraph operator in order to assess -
Rlitskiy's bona fides, which had come under suspicion at Headquarters.
Upon Pe return from London, during discussion of the aeese Penkovskiy
meetings, CSR informed DDP that Belitskiy was considered bona fide —
by everyone but me. Belitskiy came out to the U.S. in 1962, several
months after Nosenko compromised him, but he has not come out since
Nosenko's defection. Ie is inconceivable that the Soviets would

build up Belitskiy, get him past the polygraph, and then compromise
him. As I pointed out in my October 1964 paper on Soviet disinforma-
tion cases, Belitskiy was the first such sophisticated case run against
us, and would hardly be sacrificed needlessly just when it was ready

to bear fruit for the Soviets. ~

B. ANDREY - Nosenko stated that this was the most important U.S.
penetration he had heard of in his entire career. The analysis of

this case in the notebook is very strange, to say the least. The com-
parison of Nosenko's information with Golitsyn's shows very clearly
that Nosenko's information was remarkably accurate and Golitsyn's

was entirely misleading! Golitsyn is said in the notebook to have

been desk officer for two years on this case! Nosenko stated quite

correctly that this agent was a cipher machine mechanic recruited



5

in Moscow in 1949-50 and that he left Moscow in 1950; his informa-
tion that Kovshuk (alias KOMAROV) had gone to Washington to recontact
him in 1955-56 may or may not be true, but it gave the additional clue
that Kovshuk traveled alias KOMAROV. It is really surprising that
this much information did not lead CI analysts to the agent; the only
fact that Golitsyn added to Nosenko's information is that the agent
was located in Atlantic City.

The notebook analysis. concludes that there was an agent being
hidden by Nosenko's information, although most of the evidence given
for this is from Nosenko. The opposite conclusion should be reached
by objective analysis of Nosenko's stateneats. Nosenko calls the.
agent ANDREY and Golitsyn calls him JACK. Obviously, the Soviets
had two agents and we have found only one so far: even the notebook
analysis agrees. Nosenko had no need-to-know on either of these two
cases, and it appears that both Nosenko and Golitsyn have mixed them
up because of similarities in the cases. Nosenko's confused version,
although less confused than Golitsyn's, is much more important than

Golitsyn's, because Nosenko states categorically that as of 1962 the

' Soviet agent "working in the Pentagon at that time provided valuable

information on cipher machines and related matters." Instead of

hiding an agent, Nosenko is giving information on the agents, one of

whom is at large right now! Golitsyn indirectly gave the opinion

oan the Soviets etait neve a code “elerk in Place when he Seta sola

with Nosenko about a recruitment attempt in Moscow, but this may be

only a dispute about the recruitment time, not the fact.



Nosenko's conclusive evidence that there were two cases is his

identification of Kovshuk as Komarov, which made it possible for us

to check visa lists and determine that "Komarov" visited Washington
in 1957. Golitsyn's JACK, on the other hand, confessed that the
Soviet had recontacted him in 1955. Although Golitsyn did not know
specifically why Kovshuk went to Washington, or his alias, he
identified "Komarov’s" photo as Kovshuk. The recontact TDY officer
in Goliteyn's story was Yuriy Novikov; the notebook Poe i indicate
whether Novikov did come to Washington in’ 1955.

-Nosenko was wrong in.one respect--he thought he was identifying
one important U.S. penetration, but he actually was telling us about
two! No more time should be wasted in the search for this Soviet
agent.

C. Surveillance -- The March 1964 DDP memo states that “Nosenko's
principal message to us in 1962 and again in 1964 was that the loss
of several of our most productive sources in the years 1958 through
1962 was solely the result of a comprehensive and technically ad- ~
vanced system of surveillance in Moscow." Presumably this means

the loss of Popov in early 1959 (Nosenko 1962) and Penkovskiy in late
1962 (Nosenko 19642). In my opinion this "message" is not nearly as
important as messages A and B above, although it is important.

Although all available sourcea in our experience testify to the
efficacy of Soviet surveillance in Moscow, with special emphasis on

Penkovskiy, the notebook chooses to take issue with this Nosenko

information. However, no evidence is presented to prove Nosenko



CIEE

Uuailad,

wrong. isabel only argument attempted consists of a-grave insinuation

about an American: citizen and CIA auployea, Winters, which was later

checked and found to be without foundation. The ‘analysis asserts
. that the Soviet intelligence documents Provided by KGB officer
Chérepanov in late 1963 support Nosenko's information about sur-
veillance of Popov. However, instead of reaching the lama and
normal conclusion that these two sources confirm one another, the
“* Sotebock reaches the opposite conclusion--because they support one
Gaaenee! they are both suspect. :

If we have no evidence, as is the case here, what grounds are

there for contradicting Nosenko? .Presumably the same as those for

suspecting Winters. If we are proceeding on intuition at this point,

it has more than a .. touch of genuine paranoia in it.
6.° Much is made throughout the notebook about inconsistencies

and dae beh in Nosenko's information. This is very importants

However, before an experienced interrogator reaches significant
conclusions about an agent? s bona fides, -_ must weigh:all of the

peychological factors involved. By the time Nosenko’ s inexperienced

i , interrogators were. finished with him, they were of course experienced,
: but by that time they were also heavily committed to condemning
Nosenko, and the details which they were covering were already so
trivial, antique, or repetitive. that no useful results could be
expected. In any agent operation, the case officer must be an

i amateur psychologist, but in dealing with a complex defector,

Particularly when a professional diagnosis has been made, the

—e



amateur must step aside.
7. There are several phases or psychological. steps which the
aes operation must be divided into. There is no direct relation-
ship between them, and it is fruitless to compare information from
them. The only thread through all of them is the psychiatrist's
assertion that he has a disturbed personality inattentive to objective
fact. These primary phases are 1962 meetings, 1964 meetings, coal
post-defection meetings. The character of the 1962 meeting is
‘conditioned by whatever motivated him to make contact: the informa-
tion he provided is probably couched in terms of his determination
to get what he could out of us, but he was not then thinking in terms
of a relationship which would make it possible for us to see through
“his exaggerated self-importance. The 1964 meetings probably still
had some of this attitude behind them, but the positive and negative
ramifications of the contact had been fomenting in his disturbed mind
for over a year and a half, and the factors which led him to actually
make the break would probably have disturbed the content and clarity
of his information as well. Once he had defected, the disturbed
elements of his personality probably were at a crisis level, as he
had “tet the need to compensate for committing treason agd to
establish himself in’an alien environment; he had not only to rebuild
his entire life, but his. self-respect, ethics, and other aspects of
his disturbed personality. When one adds to this the psychiatrist's
findings that he is "brutally egotistic", "with no concern for the

feelings and interests of others", "undisciplined, narcissistic,

and exhibitionistic," it becomes starkly clear that this is not an


individual whose information can be judged by routine standards. 7
8. Throughout the notebook there is reference to our capability
to check on Nosenko's information. It is stated that there has been
an “enormous flow to the West of detailed information on the Soviet
intelligence and security services which resulted from the numerous
defections to the West of Soviet intelligence officers and the
successful penetrations of the Soviet Intelligence since 1954."
The March 1964 DDP memo goes so far as to say that "the West acquired
so much information on KGB personnel, organization and modus operandi
that there.was very little which the KGB would not consider con-
promised in some way..." While it is true that we have had some
good defectors in the past, the latter statement strains credulity.

If we examine the KGB sources available to us who could have provided

such information, we find that there were several up to 1955 and then
: s

none until December 1961. Since Popov and Penkovskiy were GRU
officers, they had little detail to contribute on the KGB; Goleniewski
was Polish, so his real knowledge of the KGB was accordingly and under-
standably limited. Therefore, as of January 1962, when Golitsyn
reluctantly began to give us information, our enormous "flew of
information" on the KGB had been interrupted since 1955, and by far

the larger part of it was at least eight years old, as it had come

from Rastvorov and Deryabin. Since Deryabin had left Moscow in
September 1953, and Rastvorov in July 1950, our best stock of KGB

info predated late 1953. Therefore, to say that the KGB would

consider almost all of its organization, personnel, and modus operandi



compromised to the West from January 1934 up to “Penkovskiy's arrest
in October 1962", is a considerable exaggeration. A more balanced
statement is made in the DCI memo of 9 September 1965, which limits
the "enormous" reference to 1954. The only defector or agent who

might have been in position to provide us any volume of information

‘on these subjects from 1954 to 1962 was Golitsyn. himself. A better

indication of the state of our knowledge on these subjects is
suggested in ‘the March 1964 DDP memo in the form ofa criticism of
Nosenko's performance: S.but he has brought out not a fraction of
what would have been easily available to him on such subjects as KGB
table of organization, which he knew from 1962 to be of interest to
us..." It 4s very unlikely that the KGB would equate our 1954 fund

of information with Nosenko's 1964 knowledge; the genuinely relevant

‘question is whether they would equate Golitsyn's knowledge with

Nosenko's, and that is discussed below. In fact, the March 1964 mémo

. later contradicts itself on this point, stating that before the

Nosenko defection, we had no contact with KGB officials.over many
years.
9. It is not easy to compare Nosenko's information with
Golitsyn's because the latter broke off contact with us hersee he was
fully debriefed, but the comparison made in the notebook should be valid

to the extent that the two men reported on the same subject matter.

Most of Golitsyn's service in the KGB was spent in school. His

actual intelligence experience consisted of two years on the



11

American CI desk from 1951 to 1952, about 6 months on the Emigre CI
desk, two years in the field, since August 1955, has been as NATO
Reports Officer from September 1959 to April 1960, and CI officer
on the American desk from that time through his tour in Finland
and defection in December 1961. He left Moscow Pcs in August 1960.
His significant information dates primarily from his service as a
reports officer. Nosenko, on the other hand, is unique as a source
of information on the KGB. His entire 12 years in the KGB has been
in Moscow, except.for short TDY trips to Europe and considerable
TDY travel through 1962 and 1963 to outlying KGB posts in the USSR.
Most of this time he was a cr officer working against tourists,
except for 1960-62, against the American Embassy. Therefore, his
information on KGB Headquarters is. almost four years later than
Golitsyn's, and should be correspondingly better.

10. A number of assumptions are made in the notebook about
"that specific area of knowledge which NOSENKO should have possessed
if he had occupied the particular KGB positions at the particular

times he claimed." As outlined in the paragraph above, our insight

_ which would even theoretically permit such assumptions is dated 1954

at best. Does this give us firm grounds for reaching reliable con-
clusions about the access afforded by a KGB position? The most
difficult problem for analysts in the Soviet ephera is to translate
themselves into the Soviet environment. Outside the Clandestine
Service it is rare to meet an analyst with a realistic concept of

the USSR; most of them go on the assumption that American analogies

i



are applicable to the Soviet Seana: From our own operational
experience we have learned to be quite wary of assuming knowledge
of specific aspects of the Soviet target. Since our basis for
making assumptions about Nosenko'’s job is ten years old, that would
suggest that Deryabin or Rastvorov would be as competent as any of
ca to judge Nosenko, However Deryabin betrayed his prejudice when he
made the snap judgment that Nosenko was "phony" after he had been
“briefed on the mere facts of the Nosenko case..." Such horseback
judgments do not inspire confidence; Deryabin's competence to sit in
judgment of Nosenko |is further analyzed below.

Another example of faulty projection into the Soviet situation
in the notebook concerns the $250 in operational funds which Nosenko
misappropriated in Geneva in'1962. In the March 1964 memo it is
stated that the amount of money was “only about!$250 and he could
certainly have made up this deficit through either of two close
friends (another is added elsewhere) who were present in Geneva at the
time..." Aside from the fact that the notebook tries to prove
elsewhere that neither of these persons was really a close friend,
the weakness in this assumption is obvious. As the March 1964 memo
states, "loss of ops funds is a terrible offense in Soviet eyes..."
Does any of us consider $250 to be a paltry sum? If we had. misappro-
priated such a sum would we want our best friends or superiors to
know about it? Even in Pal emergency, most of us would probably go
to extremes to avoid embarrassing a friend by such a request, or

exposing our weaknesses to a friend. However, the psychiatrist has

already given us evidence that Nosenko was not the kind of person



who makes friends, so the notebook is probably correct in its
alternate finding that the persons in Geneva were not friends in
the best sense of the word (the money-lending sense). Nosenko had

no place.to turn, ,particularly when one adds his need to indulge
himself, which has been confirmed by the psychiatrist, Golitsyn, our
own experience with him, our knowledge of Soviet VIP sons, and his

own admission. Our ignorance of the specific background is another
factor in weighing the significance of the ops funds vulnerability
question. How many times had Nosenko misappropriated funds previously?
How had he made up the deficit before? What would be the rationaliza-
tion of the situation in the case of a disturbed personality such as

ie his?
, Throughout the memos and other documents in the notebook there

is a stream of consciousness discussion of Nosenko's career, first
“providing evidence and conclusions that he had certain positions,
later evidence and conclusions that he did not, and so forth. This
uncertainty even goes so far as to suggest, even to conclude, that

’ Nosenko is not even Nosenko! Gradually, the case was built up again
that-he is in fact Nosenko. There are several ways to read this
confusion, but the psychiatrist's findings show the path to the
correct understanding of it. It is very difficult to deal effectively
with a disturbed personality, and it is not surprising that the SR
people working with him found him confusing. However, Golitsyn

confirmed that Nosenko worked where he said he did, even that he was

a "skirt-chaser", many of his agents confirmed his employment in the



KGB, and Artamonov could have confirmed that he was Nosenko if he
had been asked to do so. The inability of our personnel to see the
facts through Nosenko's stories which were “inattentive to objective
fact" is not necessarily a reflection on them, but neither can it be
used with confidence to support serious accusations against Nosenko.
The evaluation pare agent on personality or "eyeball-to-eyeball"
grounds is extremely precarious. In fact, the one Nosenko
interrogator with Soviet agent experience was involved during the
same time period with just such a judgment on another agent, in which
he, and another of our best and most experienced case officers, as
well as the polygraph, proved to be absolutely wrong in their
assessment of the agent. Many of our Soviet agents and defectors
have been unbalanced. This observation applies to Penkovskiy, it
applies to Nosenko, and it applies to Golitsyn, and to Krotkov;
Deryabin's long siege with alcoholism shows that he was not entirely
exempt.. Treason is indeed a grave decision, even if committed in i
steps, as Nosenko did it, and the defector does not become 100 percent
‘American and 0 percent Soviet when he crosses the border.

The ultimate eacelustens about Nosenko's bona fides, as the
notebook indicates, must be based on his production--how,much did
he hurt the Soviets. The evidence shows that he has damaged the
Soviet intelligence effort more than all the other KGB defectors
combined. The specific elements of this damage are as follows:
A. Belitskiy--The evidence is stated above; this was the pinnacle

of the Soviet disinformation achievement. Once Nosenko had com-

promised it, as I pointed out in my October 1964 paper, all other



similar agents are unmasked.

B. ANDREY-JACK--Although Nosenko's information was precise on one

of these two agents, and Golitsyn's was largely incorrect, Golitsyn
is inexplicably given the credit for our discovering the agent. This
agent was no longer active, but this is small consolation, as he had
been a cipher machine mechanic, and details of. cipher machines have
value well beyond their date of manufacture.

More important, Nosenko assures us that another agent is still

providing the Soviets such: information. All the wrong data Golitsyn

~ provided may actually apply to the agent who has not been apprehended.

C. Vassall--Nosenko is given eredit for the apprehension of Vassall--
this alone is sufficient to establish his bona fides. Information on
Western naval matters, particularly Polaris submarines, is undoubtedly
top priority for Soviet intelligence. It is completely out. of the
question that a source with any potential for reporting on this
subject would be terminated even an hour before he had to be. The
only substantial clue that Golitsyn gave us on Vassall was that
British Admiralty documents were being received in the KGB Reports
Office in 1959. It is not surprising that CI officers did not dis-

cover Vassall on this slim lead, since it could have beeh assumed

“that the documents came from the Lonsdale-Cohen-Houghton net com=

promised by Goleniewski. It borders on fantasy to reach the con-
clusion that the Soviets would compromise Vassall to us over 6 months
after Golitsyn defected on the assumption that Golitsyn had com-

promised him. In fact, it is fantastic!

wt



D. Johnson--Nosenko is quite right in asserting that this is one of
the best leads he gave us. If it were not for him, this agent would
still be operating against us.: The memo to the FBI makes a strenuous
effort to demonstrate that this was a troublesome case for the KGB
and that there were security weaknesses in it. That is the kind -
of trouble we would love to have--this agent had access to some of
the highest-level information available in NATO, which is to say,
U.S. plans for war in Europe. His rank, experience, clagrancea: and
tradecraft ability qualify him as the best possible type of agent.
The KGB undoubtedly had great hopes for his future access. If the
complication of his wife's disturbed personality had constituted. a
genuine threat to the operation, the Soviets Probably would have
arranged for her to have an "accident". They may well have con-
sidered this and concluded that she was a‘ valuable component of
Johnson's motivation. The only straightforward reason that the
memo to FBI gives for the Soviet willingness to compromise this -
operation apparently is Soviet fear of its being blown to the
French. Isn't this pretty weak? of course. Nosenko's knowledge

of this case is questioned on the Srounds that it is a violation

_of the “usually effective KGB security compartmentation", yet we

have said earlier that most of Golitsyn's valuable information
consisted of things he "had no right to know".
E. The KGB--The March 1964 memo states that "Nosenko's production

has been most useful in those areas which the KGB must consider

already compromised (KGB organization, general methods and



techniques, Headquarters personnel) or expendable (names of per-
sonnel who do not work abroad, etc:)..." After considering the

five cases cited above, it is impossible to agree with this. This
sentence is also contradicted by the facts given above on the unique
mature of his access and the paucity of reliable information on the
KGB since 1954, excepting Golitsyn, who served in an entirely different
directorate from Nosenko. In fact the memo states that Nosenko's
information on his directorate was far more detailed than Golitsyn's,
and most of the 240 nanes he gave us were previously not known to us.
To assume that the KGB would consider Nosenko's information com- -
promised is to find then unaware of their own defectors or grossly
wrong about our knowledge of the KGB. The criticism that ul does

not know (or remember) enough about CIA personnel in Moscow in=
corporates another large assumption; perhaps we have made some :
progress in concealing our people from the KGB. They may make errors
in identifying AIS officers just as we do on the RIS.

F. Foreign agents--No Soviet defector has identified as many Soviet

agents as Nosenko. He identified 73 past, present, or developmental

- American agents and 97 foreigners in the same categories. The arguments

to

“employed in the memo/deprecate Nosenko's list of agents Uo not provide

evidence that he was. wrong or that it: is incomplete, but: lean heavily
on the fact that we knew most of them or that they are not important.
Thank God for something. However, the fact that we may have known

or suspected most of them is irrelevant, particularly when our basis

for suspicion was derogatory information. If this were used as a



primary basis for suspecting people of being Soviet ages?¥» *¢veral

‘thousand more persons.could qualify.. The significant er eeeee in

evaluating these agents is whether the Soviets knew thay ** bedactees
already aware of these agents. The next logical step 1% judge
Gae way

whether the Soviets would be willing to give them all uy-

of looking at this aspect is to assume that they are our AGATE in

the USSR, rather than theirs in the West, and then calcesst® fon
many of them we would be willing to compromise to the gyi ees —
than

of the 170 on our list, I doubt that we would surrender BOE®

half a dozen. Unless they are going out of business, ns4th#* infant

the Soviets. On the basis of the table in the memo, ths/* ie

evidence to indicate that only about 15 of 170 were certe#taly beatles

wat Golitsyn

by the KGB to be compromised to us. The old argument, ©
"s 1962

said it first, is repeated in the memo in respect to Nossake

information: “There was a remarkable correlation betwee? *2# hele

sources, giving the distinct impression that NOSENKO was ja fect

: "
reporting from the KGB's damage assessment on GOLITSYN’# Aufection.

The same claim is not made about the list of agents which waeenko

provided, as only 8 of the 170 were confirmed by Golitsy#’® informa-

~ ’
tion. If the correlation of Golitsyn's information with sueenko's

1962 info can be judged remarkable, it is only, in the s«#*< enat

Nosenko reported useful details correctly while Golitsys *# ©?"

sistently wrong. This is understandable, since most of *#« 48

points of information fall into the category of things Gah aeeye
"had no right to know", and which therefore probably woui# *7*

appear in the damage report after his defection}



ke

19

G. Microphones in U.S. Embassy--Of the 3 points of the 18 on which
Golitsyn provides better or contradictory information, one concerned
Golitsyn's desk directly and was logical for him to know. The other
two concern bugs and SIGINT equipment in the American Embassy. The
major contradiction deals with bugs, Nosenko stating that the —_
wing had none and Golitsyn stating that a lot of money had been

spent arranging audio coverage of the new wing. Examined carefully,
these statements are not contradictory. Lots of plans end up in the
trash. Golitsyn goes on to say that Embassy bugs were still active
in 1961. It is clear that this statement does not eee ueseaeieeiiy
to the new wing, which was built in 1960-61, and not occupied until
1962. Although Nosenko was the third source to identify a microphone
in the minister-counsellor's office, it was his specific information
on locations of | numerous other mikes which ultimately led to the
discovery of the large number of mikes in the Embassy. Once again,
his was the information which was critical to our security, but i
does not get the credit. In fact, once he had given us the key data,

all other embassies in Moscow with which we are friendly could use

‘our experience to detect mikes in their embassies, thereby denying

the Soviets additional intelligence. The Soviets would hardly
sacrifice all this! Although we.found a few more microphones than
we knew of, they were all compromised as soon as we found the first
cable and followed it around the building. Nosenko stated that
there were no mikes in the renovated north wing, and he was right.
Whatever we found in that wing resulted from his information.

Nosenko's service in the American Embassy section from 1960-62

lt ee ee


should have made him knowledgeable at least of CI aspects of this

subject. The mikes were not the responsibility of his section,
nor was the intelligence produced. So far as the entire 18 points
g0, Nosenko's information is unquestionably more complete and
accurate in the main.

The Cherepanov papers, delivered to the American Embassy in
November 1963, are said to support Nosenko's story of his career
and he vouches for them. Logically, they are both valid, but this
is not accepted. Along with considerable anuendo and insinuation,
the March 1964 DDP memo calls the papers the "Winters Papers”.
Since Winters was examined and cleared after this memo was written,
the arguments against the validity of these. papers lose cohesion,
at least, and should be redrafted if they are to make any sense at.
all (i£ not for sake of decency). The only other serious argument
given against the papers relates to KGB resources for writing and _
handling documents. Since only Nosenko and Golitsyn are accessible

and knowledgeable on such procedures in the modern KGB, Golitsyn's

comments would be appropriate, but the comments used presumably are

10 years old, from Deryabin, The conclusion that the papers are of
no value to us is irrelevant, as long as the individual tho gave
them to us thought they a and believed he was hurting the Soviets
by handing them over. Penkovskiy's views on the value of what he
gave us were often inconsistent with our own. Whatever Nosenko

told us, we could not, and did not, pretend to know the identity

of every Soviet agent in any country, including the United States.



21

His position in the Counterintelligence (Second) Directorate of the
KGB certainly would not afford him such access, since the primary
intelligence effort of the KGB is in the Intelligence (First)
Directorate for which Golitsyn worked. The aspect which Nosenko
could observe ws the narrow one of Moscow, with an occasional
incidental, illegal insight through the coupe etwanearann system,
which Golitsyn demonstrated to be rather leaky.

Krotkov, the agent of Nosenko's directorate who defected in
London in September 1963,has little bearing on the Nosenko case
put is mentioned here because it is cited as evidence against
Nosenko, although ‘it.also supports Nosenko to some extent. There
appears to be good reason to believe, as Nosenko said, that Krotkov
was a "little crazy". the book which Krotkov wrote gives evidence
of pexnonniaey disturbance, and the hypertension from which he
suffers could not be faked, but could well be organic evidence of
mental imbalance. The approach of the KGB officer, Lysov, to the ¥BI
in September 1962 aiso lacks conviction as circumstantial evidence
against Nosenko. If a KGB officer were in financial |straits ~
involving mishandling of ops funds, the actions of Nosenko and
Lysov presumably are characteristic of the primary steps he would
take to extricate himself. There may be an operational suggestion
here for us, as well -_ a warning which is echoed in the Dunlap,
Johnson, and Whalen cases. Another question is posed in the memo

concerning the Soviets whom Nosenko has recommended to us for

recruitment, particularly V.P. Suslov. There is an obvious answer



to this question, however and that is'to recruit Suslov. The
objection that this may be a provocation by the Soviets is not
valid, since we are already running a Soviet disinformation agent
in the UN. :

The point is made and emphasized in the notebook that the KGB
Disinformation Department was formed in 1959.. This is a very mis~-
leading fact. As Rastvorov and Golitsyn have reported, there was a
Disinformation Service in the KI, and Golitsyn confirmed that the
function continued after the KI dissolved in 1951, although there was
no separate element for it. Most of the Soviet disinformation agents
known to us were run against us before 1959, and the most sophisticated

ones, Belitskiy, Bebaczow, and probably (AqeL00, were conceived and § ~

‘executed before 1959. The establishment of a separate Disinforma-

tion Department, therefore, appears to have followed the heyday of
the disinformation operation, rather than preceded it.. aaa s
new iia have been conceived since, such as fAgryPuoon tn(inasy
ana(Aijecase in. feta ant probably others, as indicated by our memos
to CSR on fasbaninc and [aghiws, but the days of the disinformation
agent probably have been numbered since Nosenko's exposure of
Belitskiy.. :

There are a number of references in the case against Nosenko
to unidentified "knowledgeable sources" who are quoted making

damaging assessments of Nosenko. It is apparent from most such

references that the knowledgeable sources meant are’Deryabin and

Rastvorov. However, neither of these two KGB officers can genuinely



be said to have knowledge of the KGB which is applicable to the
Nosenko case,since one left Moscow in 1950 and the other in 1954.
The most serious assumption affecting Nosenko's assessment are ba
those which involve his production. The argument against him’ falls* ,
apart completely without the continuous application of the assumption

that he has told us only what the Soviets knew was already ‘in our | *-

“. hands. This ‘assumption, “in turn, rests eutseeiy: on our estimate of.

the damage assessment which the Soviets. probably vrote on Goliesya.:

This is where ‘the argument loses all of its force. We have no basis:

whatsoever for making a reliable itemization of the things which are

ue

included in the KGB damage assessment except for the documents which
Golitsyn brought with hin. We can guess that the list includes the
gist of all documents which Golitsyn saw while in Finland for the 17
months before he defected. It would be impossible for the Soviets to

say precisely what Golitsyn remembered of KGB organization, personnel,

“and activities since he had left Moscow. It would be absolutely

impossible for the Soviets to know what Golitsyn had learned. illegally
by word of mouth, either while he was in Moscow or after he had gone
to Helsinki. The March 1964 DDP memo stated that Golitsyn learned
many details about sensitive operations “which he had no right to
know" in this way. Just as it would be impossible for us to make a

parallel itemization on a CIA officer, even with the complete honesty

of all persons who knew him. The most serious part of the KGB damage

assessment probably would have related to Golitsyn’s service as a

reports officer on the NATO desk. From what he has told us, it ig

apparent that he did not know the names of most of ‘the agents whose



reports _ handled. He was Sead to describe subject matter and had

-managed to pick up some other operational details, ‘many of them

wrong, as in-the ANDREY-JACK cases... While the KGB would probably te

to minimize the damage assessment in their report ‘te higher authority,”

they would probably maximize it among themselves, but sae defies logic

to poner eae: that: they would send us an agent who. would be able to
provide the details which would lead to compromise of producing | assets;
Neither would we. We would move very ‘carefully operationally, or even.

stand down on cases where we thought there was canes of compromise,

“but ba our agents ‘survived ‘for a few weeks, or even months, we would
conclude that the storm was past. And the KGB is probably considerably
more coldblooded than we are when it comes to collecting intelli-
gence even in the face of perils to their agents. Nosenko summed
Ee it up ee meet when he said that the KGB "would not really know the :
extent of ny knowledge," “It will take many months to look.into oe
these matters, so nothing will change for a long time," and when
. discussing a case: "they won't have any way of knowing I know. “ cer-

tainly the. people who told me won't volunteer the fact." The problem :

of the damage assessment, here or there, could not be stated better.
Since Deryabin was employed in the Personnel Directorate, he would ;
normally know and remember more about personnel forms and procedures
than would operational personnel. The latter generally consider all
forms and procedures a nuisance and spend as little time and thought
on them as possible. If organizational errors are to be used against

Nosenko, they can also be used against Rastvorov, as he was one year

off on both the formation and dissolution of the KI and, just as

reer : : .



“Nosenko did, left out the _GULAG and other extraneous units when

drawing up the organization of the “KGB, although he had only been:

‘away from the Center four years when he defected... The evidence
_which Deryabin uses to support his assertion that he can deny the
truthfulness of various aspects of Nosenko's: story consists of the

vkind of trivia on which few persons could score well. _ Since

Deryabin was engaged in actual intelligence work for less than two

. -years before his defection in February 1954, and had been ‘in the field

for the six months just prior to his defection, his tests of Nosenko

involve facts at least 11 -years old. They are fairly fresh to

- Deryabin's mind because they relate to his last expérience in the

USSR, but Nosenko's considerably greater depth of experience
naturally has placed so many layers of information over the 1952-53
era that he could not reasonably be expected to: recall the things
that Deryabin can. This would become clear if we were to have a
current CIA CI officer debriefed on the same period in CIA by a
former CIA FI employee who resigned in 1953.

It has also become clear in a hurried comparison of Deryabin's
original reports with his present criticisms of Nosenko. For

example, one of Deryabin' 8 trivial points is that’ Nosenko ‘claims

-his working hours to have begun at 1030; Deryabin agrees with the

other details Nosenko gave on working hours but insists that 1000
was the starting time. Rastvorov confirms in his reports that
Nosenko is correct; Deryabin's own reports in 1954 stated that the

working hours were 1100-2100, although he now agrees with Nosenko



that 2400 was closing time. Considerably nore interesting is
Deryabin's accusation that Nosenko made an “outright mistake" sb
asserting that there was a "tenth directorate of the KGB in agsd ah Y
. which was called the Directorate of the Kremlin Commandant...
: - Deryabin assures us in his criticism of Nosenko that "This
directorate had actually merged with the Guards Directorate in
1947, and the ‘combined directorate was designated the 9th pireet// as
“in 1952 (and has remained so to this day). However, Deryabin
again contradicts himself in his.1954 reports as follows: “rnd

Kremlin Commandant Directorata “existed as a separate organizati: py

oe
until August 1953." He made this statement at least three tine”
his 1954 debriefings. Deryabin thus disqualifies himself as a
ad
knowledgeable and objective examiner of Nosenko. With all the y ia Zz

Deryabin spent in the Guards Directorate, this is a point one w ia

expect him to remember. These contradictions, and others which
would probably turn up in a careful examination of the rest of
Deryabin's case against Nosenko, are in the area of Deryabin's
supposed greatest competence and usefulness to us. It is only

- logical to find that Deryabin is also on shaky ground when he
pretends to have knowledge which he never had. The. most obvious

example is his comment on the fact that in giving his military”

mailing address, Nosenko included the town name with the field

post number. Deryabin says: "This is yet another mistake, sin~

military postal security procedures prohibit linking the milita”

unit number with the location of the unit on the envelope." No*

could be farther from the truth. When'the system was first

SERRE


aa |

_.,"| “established in 1942, this was the concept, but it soon deteriorated,

and almost all Soviet internal military mail after the war contains

both the FPN number and the :place name. If Deryabin really knew

the Soviet FPN system, he would have been able to say that the FPN's-
| were assigned in blocks at first, and that the 901XX block’ from which

Nosenko's FPN ‘in Sovetskaya Gavan was taken was ina naval block. If:

he had this real knowledge, he could then say that military ‘intelli-

gence FPN's commonly contained a zero as one of the five digits. He

could then have concluded that the number Nosenko gave was in fact a
naval intelligence unit. It is admittedly somewhat easier for us to

make such an analysis, as we know from an incontrovertible source

that the FPN Nosenko gave was assigned to a naval intelligence unit
in the Sovetskaya Gavan area at the time Nosenko said he was there.
Deryabin is not an experienced Soviet intelligence officer. He
less than | i
spent/two years in intelligence work, 17 months at HQ and 5 in the
field, two years in military cr at the end of the war and sub-

sequently served as a personnel security officer; this is not much

more than a familiarization tour. He is, of course, qualified to
comment on Soviet realities in general better than any of us up to
1954, and to a gradually decreasing extent since that time. He is an
adequate, but not fluent, translator. He is a thorough researcher

to the extent that he has access to. information; his research has

the same limitations as any research--what is written in books or

reported by. agents rarely coincides with the objective facts of

human behavior.



Rend ote

28

No doubt the motivation, or the\ evolution. of the motivation,

which led Wlosenko to defect: is very complex, in keeping with his

personality disturbance. “The same was dramatically true = with:

“had. Both of: them were protected by high-level! general: officers a

and had" i1lustrious femily nemest: both appeared, ‘to be devoted ‘to
: “thet. fanilies.. Thig does not! mean “ghee. thetz motivations hed at

“all alike, only, that ‘the obstactes to changing allegiance were:

‘roughly simiiar. - Nosenko’ s real motivation’ must’ be “sought in his,

* formative yeare, when, Like. the ‘sons of most "Soviet leaders,

beginning with Stalin’ 8 _own son, the world was — for ‘the aeking
and he took’ alt he “coula get. Yet, there is a ‘motivational, ‘element

relating to the ‘father in both cases--as an amateur psychologist, oa

Seubmit that aha was revenging his father, and” Nosenko defected

as the ultimate act of rebellion against his...

Assuming that the Soviets were to conceive an operation against

*. ws hetataaie involved an 'RIs officer, what would that ‘officer be Like and

how would they prepare hin? “our ‘experience with disinformation

agents indicates that they would not prepare him at all in ‘the | sense

Nosenko is said to have been prepared in the notebook.. ‘ hey would
sélect a man who could not compromise anything, ‘but who also aaa not

have to invent ‘any significant period or chapter of his ‘aie: The



“vary fact ‘that Nosenko | appears ‘to be fabricating ed past from

kindergarten days is ‘the aah evidence that he. is. not a-plant,

: and soed evidence that he ‘is not fabricating anything at all except
what is required by his disturbed ‘personality. A disturbed pees :

+ sonality cannot be controlled, 60° he is. not a” candidate ‘for a dis~.

information: operation. The candidate would have to be a legitimate

officer, for otherwise Lata KGB would not be sure that we did not have

a penetration of ‘the KGB or Soviet, erent who could tell us all

» . about the operation, or that we would not soon have a defector who:.

* eouta tell us that. Nosenko's story was fabricated. Actually,» one
ip of our best Soviet -agents told us that Nosenka was a legitimate
t defector and knew more damaging information than Penkovskiy; so it.

’is remarkable that the case against Nosenko has gone this far.

As far as — preparation of the KGB officer ‘disinformation agent
is concerned, it would be ‘thorough and complete. This rules out
Nosenko immediately; as he was not able to pass the polygraph .
successfully. , As stated above in the. Belitskiy case, a known htadet
information- agent, he passed the polygraph successfully “in 1961, so

it is quite unlikely that the most important disinformation agent

“would be sent out unprepared for the polygraph. There is surely a

need te study why the known agent: "passed" the polygraph and the

valid defector (Nosenko) did not. What point would there be in
"resistance to interrogation" and “how to conduct himself in
detention" if he is not trained to beat the box? Another flaw,

a serious. one, in the theory that Nosenko was prepared by the KGB,

particularly on the basis of Golitsyn's information, concerns


the tourist ops document which Golitsyn had brought out with him.

Nosenko knew that Golitsyn: had. ita ‘this document, but was not

: familiar with. ite. This would ‘not be possible if he had been

“prepared by the ‘Kop, . Naturally: Nosenke ‘dia not know Blake had

contributed to “this document-—he ‘had no need to know. |

i Along with. the “tendency, ‘to Adentity Nosénko 8 ‘detractors as" yet

: " "knowledgeable: sources’ ius there isa corollary whith casts’ doubt on

sources ‘who help to substantiate his story. - Five of these are

said to confirm Nosenko’ s identity. Some of these: are cited teves

* another significant one“is the 1959 naval defector, Artamonov. The

language used ‘to describe Artamonov' s comments on Nosenko is.

decidedly ‘hostile, but there is no evidence at all to suspect,

fb: : Artamonov. Artenonov ‘made a major contribution to U.S. Antelli-.

gence, is highly respected by senior U.S. naval. officers, and is,

the most. intelligent and well-adjusted Soviet defector in the West.
He was Golitsyn' s best friend while Golitsyn: was here, — ‘Goliteyn

called him several ‘times from England, having left both his’ dog

“and: color television with Artamonov. We have* found Artamonov to be

highly ‘cooperative with persons “who ‘understand ‘the Soviet system:

“and completely impatient heft those who pretend to ‘such ‘knowledge.

He can ’ probably make much more ‘useful and valid comments on ‘some of.
ed the points which Deryabin was asked to eview!: Eee ae
Something should be said about Nosenko" 8 memory. All. memories
- are selective, depending on personality, interests, requirements,

‘and other factors. an a sense, nothing is ever. forgotten, but in

practice we can recall only limited amounts from the sub-conscioue:



_As Nosenko | said: “There are. ‘aifferent types of memories." htt

we acai that Nosenko nee identified up ee 200 leads for us,

_ over 00 KGB. officers and. agents, and 127 of 173 Americans in the ©

U.S. ‘Embassy an 1960-62,. we ‘must, ‘admit that he has exceeded most of -

“us in memory ‘capability. In addition to these, he ‘undoubtedly has

. the usual fund of information ‘centering on his fanily and non-careér
life.” ‘Yet, in examining his ‘production and his praceucaee! we ‘expect
‘him to add all manner of trivia to the immense amount of 4nformation

he has already provided, and we.expect him-to have it right... {

"Then. his memory of flying in lobster and hbchatni for agent projects
, is called “little details." We have not asked as much of any other :
defector. If we did, we would throw them all back.” Although we. i
have no place near the agent stable in our past that Nosenko has
= - identified, I would not be able to come close to the number of .
: identifications Nosenko has made, and neither coula anyone else.
Unfortunately badd hin, what is trivial to him on the inside is
far from trivial ‘to us on the outside, aig the same no doubt applies

in the opposite direction.

Another. factor which affects our evaluation of Rastvorov and |
Deryabin as judges of Nosenko is their conclusion that Nosenko" s.
history is such that he could never have been employed by the KGB.
Times have changed since they were there, since his employment is
confirmed by Golitsyn, independently by one of our best agents,
and a number of agents whom he handled. Another éurious remark,

| apparently made by both Golitsyn and Deryabin, is that Nosenko



seened ‘to. be giving savertmation from the CIA reports they
“had provided eat . Tase Le. curious on several counts, eauuuu
‘we do not show. defectors” reports: to then, 80 they would have

‘egubie knowing fuse wees they had told ‘us. It is also éurious;,

4 accepted. at face waists because it ‘would be additional ‘evidence

that Nosenko- was providers accurate information; to the extent”

~ that Goliteyn's and perse%in's reports agreed with one another. :

In fact, however, as pevzyabin poiate out correctly, in part,

Nosenko's memory fa nee, #5 complete: as Deryabia’ 8, sO he. does

* not report as accurately 07 the KGB up to 1954," ‘when all three.

‘of these defectors were serving in the KGB soacurrently for a Fens
i “months. Comparison of: xosenko! 8 and Golitsyn's ‘reporting shows

that their ‘reporting overtaps in some betel ahahaha but that Nosenko" s

is superior in every yespect.except. French agents and First

Directorate organization o

There are a number ef contradictions and discrepancies in

‘the notebook analyte of ahaa cone of them quite significant.”

‘The October-1964 status report, for example, - makes the ‘assertion

that. "Since NOSENKO"# feleely-clainea service in the American

Embassy Section coincides fairly. closely with the period covered

by the “ RGB-concocted CHUREPANOV Lee dmiit on the same ‘Section’ s

activities, and since Teer was ‘aware of certain successful

or impending operation® there in this period, the conclusions
reached here Amp that both the CHEREPANOV papers and the NOSENKO

information are gueanded to cover up penetrations davolving

personnel stationed in the U.S. Embassy, Moscow, during the period


fron approximately 1957-8 to 1963." The quality of Golitsyn's
knowledge has been discussed above. The key word in this very
‘critical and final judgment is “coincide”. It is completely =
i false. . The’ Cherepanov papers cover the period 1957-8 to aaees

while Hosenko" s service in the American Embassy. ‘Section was. from

1960 t to 1962. Possibly some. other word was ede put ‘the fact:
: remains, Cherepanov and Wosenke. did not work in the Section duzing i
the same period of time... If in fact the two events ‘aia coincide,’

one would have to consider.them both more seriously; ‘if the Soviets

_ had sent. Nosenko out, they probably would coincide. As it is, the
Beusece cannot hope to convince us with some "worthless" papers

about surveillance that there were no Embassy penetrations for
three years and then feel obliged to send out an agent to convince

us there were none for three more years. .Another case concerns -

the assertion that Nosenko tells "pat™ stories. This is not
illogical for someone who is relating gossip or someone else! s
jokes. In the March 1964 memo, ‘some 15 such stories are cited

“And the odd thing is that practically. every time he tells the

story, regardless of the. context or angle of ‘approach to it, the
story comes out in exactly the same form, with exactly the same

- details given _ exactly the same way, no more and no less."

This is strong language. However, “just a ‘few pages later, with.
equal vehemence, his stories are described as follows: “However,
the number and type of contradictions within NOSENKO's stories

go far beyond what could be considered normal." Now, strictly

speaking, these two violently opposite assertions could be ‘true,


* the STORSBERG case, which was. included in the List of. "pat" :

: stories, is said to have been told 50 times “wet, at least one

a iaaen various circumstances. "There are even personalities

when an individual is telling different stories. However

the ANDREY story is, given as an example in both cases! One-

” tends to lose a little confidence “ta the mute at ‘this

point, and perhaps doubt tte objectivity a bit. _Later on;

contradiction each telling." what are we to believe?

ce The same question of objectivity is raised by the adoption | of

‘the stereotyped phrase "“liar' & face". This is a subjective :

observation; all persons have certain: standard facial “expressions

which constantly exploy “false faces," people who are always |

acting. It is dangerous to allow such a stereotype to enter

in ‘and corrupt, or replace, judgment. ” ioe eee ENG
In effect, Nosenko stated the case for his own defense

very well: . "He peote lay — blame on his ‘interrogators, saying

that he knows petter how things are done _ the Soviet Union

“than we do..." a trust that none of us intends to argue this

point—Penkovekiy told us this’ constantiy, aad it: ‘4s quite correct:

“J .that we were twisting his story ‘and making things look Good

“ferent; that we had already decided that he was *falee' “and

weren't listening objectively.” I believe ‘the: evidence given
above supports Nosenko on these two points; especially when

we recall that the memo which labeled him a "plant" was written

“guste two weeks after our first meeting with hin in 1962.



35

"Finally, he would stress the quality and importance of his
. basic information, telling us: that, because his. basic facts |
were correct, it ‘was’ unimportant how he learned them, whether ° ‘
_ dates and other details were wrong, or whether we already :
had the information from other’ sources.” _ Nosenko has an’ °
: escel leat argument here; when the facts can be checked :
independently, as his can be, and have been, the sourcing details
that one tries to inculcate in a recruited, trained agent pale
to insignificance in comparison. Let'a take the wheat and
leave the chaff. oe
Having examined ‘the various memos and. status reports in’.
the Nosenko notebook, I am satisfied that Nosenko. is a bona
fide defector. The case against him consists almost entirely
of assumptions, subjective observations, unsupported suspicions,
innuendo, insinuations regarding his supporters, steady repeti~
tion of charges against him,.relatively trivial contradictions
in his reporting, and negative conclusions about his bona fides:
which actually are derived from evidence of his disturbed:
: personality. .I have analyzed many Soviet disinformation cases
ana many fabrication cases, and have identified a number of both
correctly, both before there were any negative operational
indications and in.the face of operational evidence that the
cases were bona fide, but I cannot find a shred of solid evi-
dence against Nosenko in any of the memoranda or other documents

in the Nosenko notebook.


The 30. April 1965 memo status report states: "Subject

“has repeatedly challenged. us to. Produce proof of his guilt and i

to try. him. " Nosenko. has another good ‘argument here—the
S ease 1 would be throw out of court for lack of evidence. How-

aw what do we lose by taking him up ‘on this? I recommend

that we appoint a new Judge and: jury for the Nosenko’ case and
Anstitute a change of venue. The. participants should be per-
sons not. involved in the case 80 far, but with experience

pertinent to the ‘case, “such as the following:

A. " Paychiatrist or psychologist, as full-time consultant

“kB. Rod Kenner of IG (SR experience, objectivity) as judge.
He's also a lawyer, by the way.

_ ¢. Dick Stolz (Moscow experience)

a: ; D. Dick Kovich (KGB- defector handler and Soviet agent experi-~

ence)’ : 8 : : - eee

E. Bob Lubbehusen (15 years continuous experience with produc="”
tion from every Soviet agent and defector, especially KGB)

F. EA Juchniewic2 (Soviet agent and CI experience)

-& [Beoree “Fraser] (Specialist in Soviet technical collection
and equipment) : i
The detention of a defector is a serious action, but the
detention.of a bona fide defector on false charges has implicit
explosive potential. It is not cia iquearton of justice to an
individual, but a larger question. First, the 2 handling of his

information as disinformation contaminates our CI analysis. now,



in past cases, and for a long time in the. future. Rather than
®

being disinformed. by the enemy, we are deluding ourselves. . If.

we are afraid that word of our suspicions might get back to.

Moscow, we should be even more ‘concerned that word ‘of: our

y detention of. Nosenko will also. ‘How many more: “Soviet inteli4- ae

gence officer defectors, or even agents, can we then expect? -

stnce/aghroces knew, KGB officers, and probably GRU as were

have the advantage of knowing that Nosenko is a bona fide-

defector, a they will mot have much respect for us or” desire

to ‘come over “to us, if they learn how we have dealt ‘with hin.

The review of the “Nosenko case will have to take into

account the KGB aims which we “have theorized for Nosenko asa

disinformation agent. These are stated. in the notebook as

A.

” follows:

Penetrate CIA and FBI — One wonders how the KGB would’ expect
this to be done... If it can be
assumed that they have some know-
ledge of ‘the treatment of RIS. defectors.
in the hide 8.5 then they know that such
defectors are held at arm's length:
only in the past weeks have we
initiated a program to brief RIS XQ
defectors even on our dead cases and
their production, although Deryabin
has been hehe naa some aspects of N

non-sensitive cases the last two years.



Most RIS defectors have little
qualifications for, or interes?
‘oa, vork other than intelligence,
"go the desire of Nosenko :to aid us

is normal and should be accepted: to

the ‘extent that we are using the :

others.

B. ‘Redefect, discredit U.S.. intelligence, and generate anfavor-
able publicity about us—If this is the Soviet aim, we have given .
them a magnificent opportunity! Imagine what would happen if

Nosenko were a "plant"—the Soviets could make charges at any

‘moment pointing out that Nosenko had been kidnapped by us,

aided by the Swiss and Germans, and that he was now being held
‘against his will. What could we do or say? One wonders if CIA .

would survive the subsequent furor in the press, Congress,. and

" abroad. Who would believe our protestations that the goods had

been planted on us—the boy with his hand in the cookie jar is

““geldom considered a reliable witness in his own defense. If »

Nosenko were a plant, the Soviets can get him back whenever they

‘want him,at our expense.

C. Discourage other defectors—How can he do this? If he did
not serve in the KGB, as the notebook claims, RIS officers will a
know that, and what we do with him will not affect their own
intentions to defect. If we are wrong (which I am sure we are),

and Nosenko did serve in the KGB, the knowledge of the double

game he is playing would spread among ‘his past, present, and



39

future KGB colleagues and likewise have no effect on future

ity defections. The only way the KGB could hope to discourage annie .

future defections, through Nosenko would be for us’ to detain hin

on false ‘gharges and for’ that fact to’ “become known in the RIS.

: In other words, Nosenko te a bona fide defector, -but we have nade .

ait posster for the Soviets to gain ‘an unexpected windfall by
our ‘treatment of him. ‘There is no ‘other .rational explanation

of how they could hope’ to achieve’ this’ theoretical ain.

“Dp. Protect existing Soviet agents in the West — There is nothing

lulling about Nosenko' s- “List of 200 agents in the West, particu-
larly the key cases cited above. Nosenko! s background and ex-
t perience provide hin no basis for reassuring us that no Americans

have been recruited outside Moscow, nor does he try to do so.

He goes s0. far as to point out that the most important cases even
in — own directorate are taken out of the hands of the working
level and handled by the directorate chief pérsonally. How, then,

could bie conceivably mislead us about the agents recruited in

Mesceua We have no evidence that he has—it is Golitsyn’ 8

disturbed personality that confuses the cases most, not Nosenko's,
including the ANDREY-JACK case’ on which Golitsyn is said to have
. been desk ease officer for two years! The only suggestion of
.evidence: that Nosenko is misleading us is Golitsyn's hearsay
from a section chief who was 99 percent sure he was about to

recruit an American code clerk; Nosenko said such a ‘recruitment

was tried and failed. Who.accepts this as proof? Nosenko told


us that the Soviets were still receiving code: machine informa-:
£
tion in 1964—what more do-we need? -Is a concealing an Sts ole

agent? Quite the opposite. There is no evidence ‘to support

the a lady of agents" theory. We are fortunate “that Nosenko -
could tell us that they still have a high- -level a eealenats was

surely not within: his need-t ‘o-know.

E. ‘Lure us into operations in the un—of all the theceies!! this

one is the most far-fetched. Since we are already running a

disinformation agent in the UN, and have been since 1958, :the Soviets
could pull the plug on this one at any time, and could have done

so in the past, either while the agent was on TDY in New York,

or by assigning him PCS. If they want to move the UN, they have

i other means. Since it has: proven so useful for their own. intel-

| 7 ligence operations in the past, it is safe to say that they will
leave it in New York for a while. Considering all the agents :

they have run out.of the UN, it is not Likely that anyone would .
take their protest seriously just because we were running one

agent there.

So, it is, after all, unreasonable to conceive Sime which
would justify sending out an experienced intelligence officer
as a "plant," Whatever purpose one might theorize, ere are
better ways to accomplish that purpose. Whenever the Soviets
have set out to mislead by giving information, or by giving us
a eenes who are without information, they have succeeded only

because they follow the simplest. possible formulas, including an



41

absolute minimum of fabricated legend, and the maxinum base of
objective fact which is still consistent with their modest aims.
The trioseceup ishing (Great Plot is still generations in the i
future. : ;

What will it, take to convince all of us that Nosenko is

pona fide?’ Nosenko expresses the wish that we will soon get

“another KGB defector who will vouch for him. So do I. ‘He can

say ‘this confidently because he knows that if we already had a
KGB penetration that penetration would vouch for his bona fides.
Did we tell him that'we have no such penetration? If not, he can
only know it because he is innocent. It is beyond reality to
argue that everyone in the KGB will vouch for Nosenko'’s story—
it.is not enough to alter a few organizational documents. The
truth comes from life, not from the archives. If we call all
that and all those who have already vouched for Nosenko "suspect",
everything and everyone vouching for him in the future also as
"suspect," what do we have left? This way lies madness. What
kind of proof do we need of his innocence, when we call him guilty

with none?



a ff.
a
at

igs

ny 24 September 1967
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Recent Developaents in the Review of the Nosenko Cane

1. On 2 June I was contacted by the DDCI's Spetéal Ansistant, George ‘|
McManus, and asked to ,goug to kis office to discuss Soriet intelligence cdllection
as it related to [Prankeute are Prior to this call I nad bruja aware that
McManus was making inquiries the SB Division about ay poslbten and background.
In his office we discussed the SB collection program and tae Avecial contribution
of defectors. No comment was made by either of us regarding @y talk with the DDCI.

2. On 30 June, at my request, I met with the ADDP to express concern at
having again been passed over for proaotion. He infor-ted ae that my proaotion kad
been. approved but that it had not been sade effective becauze ya and the DDP were
puzzled that I had gone over their heads to discuss the Hosenky case with the DDCI.
He stated that it was not a crime to visit the DDCI, but that bhe DDP chain of
command skould be followed, and all possible points of appeal For such'a disagree-
nent should be exhausted before ‘taking a matter to the Directop', office. -In reply,
I stated that my action was prompted by the knowledge that tha 4B Division paper on
Rosenko had been sent to the DDCI, that the DDCI was aware ths b I had written a
dissenting opinion, and that he had expressed interest in taat wpinion.

3. Tae ADDP stated. that he and the DDP were knowledgeable of the Nosenko
case, that they had listened to soae of the interrogation tapna + and that they were
inclined to accept the Division. position. He advised ne taat there were aany facts
of which I was not aware, and that it would be best if I would ®onfine ayself to
requirezents uatters, leaving counterintelligence analysis to hose persons who
were responsible for it. We said that we had treated Nosenko ln a gentleaanly
manner, which was sore than the Soviets would do in a similar Gage.

4, I stated that the Mosenko case and uost of the Canes’ which the Division -
connected with it were cases with whick I had been involved, that they were all
cases of evaluating production in coaparative terms, and that “4y ‘experience in suclt
evaluations qualified me to have my views heard. He advised as that if I would
try again to discuss the subject. with CSB that he would now be willing to hear me 7 ~
out. He said that if I still disagreed and wished to discuss Lhe subject with
other senior officers, I should first inform CSB of that intent, 7 called his
attention to the negative attitude of the Division toward intelligence opportunities,
and the ADDP stated that he and the DDP were entirely aware of teat attitude and
were watching it closely. Tais has since becoxe.apparent to wa, F

: 5. After ay return frou vacation, on 12 July, CSB Called me in to for-
nalize the proaotion and euphasize that ke was solely responatiite for its. It was
clear that he had discussed wy visit to the-DDCI with the lata and that the DDCI
had aerely confirsed the visit and coammicated the gist of rewntion to the paper
Waich tse Division kad sent kim on the Nosenko case. e



6. On 1h August», two Division officers wko had been evaluating the
Nosenko paper were obliged’ to write up their critical views and subait then
to CSB. He subsequently stated that their criticisus would be useful in
tightening up the paper, and advised taex to continue to analyze the paper
for this purpose. Trey continue to find major flaws in the case against
Hosenko. CSB informed them that the paper forwarded to the DDCI was only a
draft, and that there were bound to be discrepancies and inconsistencies in
a paper so complex and involving so many authors.

7. On 2h August I was called in by csB/cl and told that I could no
longer discuss the Nosenko case with any of the several officers under kis
jurisdiction who were working on the case, and that any of those officers
who initiated such discussions with me should be asked if they had his per-
aission to do so. I agreed to honor this arrangeuent but euphasized that ny
only interest in such discussions was to facilitate a thorougk and objective
review of the Nosenko case. I then recommended that the two officers be
given ay December 1965 paper on the case » and this was subsequently done.

8. Since uy determined actions to expedite reopening of the Nosenko
case have led the Division and the DDP to disown ay views and to exclude se
froa the review of the case, I see no existing forum for ay views within the
Clandestine Services. Therefore, in spite of the BBP's advice that I either
refrain ‘frou having an opinion, or express it only within tke Division or
the CS, I have a sense of urgency that th’ attached views on the disposition
of the Nosenko case be considered at the cowmand level of tae Agency waere the
ultimate decision oust be made.





MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

1.

“2.

The clandestine Effort Against the | UBSR

The negative positions taken ty the aiviston ‘

continue to dominate and negate our efforts to collect

iatelligence on the USSR clandestine meana. Ia E
addition, I believe that this negative environment has

done permanent damage to our capabilities against. the | -
Soviet target, and that this demage tncreasea with .~ |:
each day that this environment prevails. Bde .

Following is a summary of recent: ‘davelopnents

as I see then.

.in the division’ positions and a list or their effects

“Be

Nosenko is a deception agent, and soviet deception

operations revolve around him.

The psychiatrist has told the division” ‘that :
Nosenko's desperation to change his situation
may lead to a false confession,

The dishonesty and bias in the case against :
Nosenko are still evident 1n the current review
of his bonafides, according to the officer who

is doing most of the writing of that paper.

Attachment Ais an example of this technique.

: BOURBON apa deception bagi

tz believe tha UREOS 4s bonafide. He has just
made his seventh identification of a major

Soviet agent in the U,S. (Boeckenhaupt), who is
the fourth auch agent who was active, unsuspected,
and in a position to do the U.3.. serious qi BSS 4

any attempt to develop and disseminate, ‘EO!
information is inevitably blocked. by the. CI
eaphasis, as well as failure to provide the case
officer close substantive support. “-JOURBON, is
providing some significant information whiten is

IN

_ Within his access and appears valid.

es ee
-Unwarranted and dishonest judgments of BOUREON

information are made without the knowledge Fe
division officers qualified to make such Judg=-
ments. See Attechnent Be



fish ae officers of the division's GRU ranch. disagree
4 : with the division's evaluation of, BOURBON.) The

“. paper on: ROURBON'S jbonafides is being dictated

« to then by the division chief.

Re

eels OTCH is.2a deception agent.

“ ScorcH continues to provide requirements and , .

‘information which I believe to be reliable and =
. © appropriate to his access. His information is . inte
_* - suceh that it does not permit a firm conclusion .

about his. bonafides one way or the other, but

his CI information is the best basis : for judging

hin. :

ALL amportant ‘Soviet b saente arrested tn the U5.
4a the past five years or so have been compromised
by Nosenko (Johnson, Mintgenbaugh), BOURBON ©
(Dunlap, Whalen, Thompson, Howell, Drummond,
Boeckenhaupt, and Casal 5, and SCOTCH (Butenke
and others unknown to me), I believe that
SCOTCH has proven himself in the CI field, but
‘the case for him is not as foolpraff as for the.
other two. Even so, his bonafides or lack of
same has no automatic bearing on oe
BOURBON,

“ a. Most Soviet activities which’ have: been detectea
: around the world are deception operations, called
Be: "disinformation", "screen", or "diversionary"
z operations by the division,

ea The keystone of this position is the assumption
that the GRU academy class of 1963 which was
identified for us by Penkovskly 1s a "throwaway"
group runfiing deception operations. In fact,
only 7 of 51 in the class have been ddentiriea
in intelligence work,

This theory was prepared as a book dispatch
three. years ago but not sent out. It is given
in briefings of agency and liaison personnel?

Analysds of previous cases, such as the Felfe
case, are belng written with a blas built in to ~
support, this theory.

No walkeins and few ee or liaison pate Hee
escape the deception label,

# In early Jenuary the division begins a course for CI"s, and-this
philosophy will probably be . 2 «passed on to then.



@, Individuals who provide information. which tends .
. to corroborate the reporting or bonafides: « of .the
” above agents are also deception agents.

Since Bll RIS defectors and agents in the future
are certain to provide such information, all are
Giscredited in advance, This 1s a particularly
crippling position, as our two best positive
intelligence sources have been GRU officers.

The only such defector we have had since Nosenko's
Walk-in in 1962 is Olga Farmakovskaya, whom the :
Givision judged a deception agent primarily.
because she stated her husband attended the GRU
academy with Nosenko, See Attachment C,

A number of agenta in Satellite intelligence’
servicea are being tarred with the same. brush,

3. The effects of the above positions are detrimental

“within the Givision and the Agency, and I believe they

have demeged our reputation with the FBI, HI=6, and other
liaison services, . Within the Clandestine Services, these

“positions and es have generated a widespread feeling ~~

of frustration, futility, and impotence. The division

‘~practically preaches the superiority of the KGB over the

FBI and CIA, using the above theories as “evidence”,

"91d standards of information and source evaluation have

been abéndoned and even reversed, with bad analysis

‘driving good analysis out of existence. The validity —

of Soviet area experience is being denied. The effect
is paralysis of our Soviet effort,

4. A number of actions have been taken by the
division which have also contributed to the aed or
the Clandestine Services’ Soviet effort,

&. Replacement and downgrading of senior personnél
: with Soviet experience,

bd. Increased: dependence on RIS defectors for opera=
tional judgments. These defectors are brought
into Headquarters and overseas stations and shown
Agency documents,

c. Attempted kidnapping pt the supposed KGB t: thon
chief in Tokyo. -

d. Persoanel with experience, ae tacgi~
nation, and initiative are bullied, jeored, and
shouted into silence, or into division positions
which they are required to accept on faith and —
without question.

-~3-



"75. These actions ere primarily injurious to persona
4mnedlately in the division, but the reduction of their
individual contributions reduces over-all effectivenesa.
‘he kidnapping episode discredited the division and the
agency, and is a blatant example of the disregard of tha
division chief for the views of his staff. The require.
ment that division personnel mutely and blindly follow
him, abandoning their judgment and self-respect, alienatay
some of the best people in the division, and has been tha’ -
direct cause of at least one serious illness and a con=
tributing factor to a number of health problems of others,
The motivation of experienced people who still occupy a :
few responsible posts in the division has been seriously
eroded by the unhealthy policies summarized above, and
the. related lack of intelligence success, : ;

~- 6, What I have stated here are my own sincere and
sober views. Tha concern which I feel for this state of
affairs has increased to the point where I am mentally
distressed and physically affected by this catastrophia
development in my chosen profession. Even if the present
insidious trend were to be abruptly ended, it would take
many years to rectify the damage, in the minda of our
own personnel, 4n operational files and guidance, and
with other agencies and liaison services. I am entirely
comitted by experience, qualifications, and inclination
to work on collection against the Soviet target. wow
discouraged in this work, I would find it difficult to
regenerate this lost enthusiasm in a new assignment.
However, if there is no hops of a thorough review of the
positions and methods of the division within the next

few months, I feel that both my professional and personal
welfare will require that I find some other assignment,

7. %&In committing these views to paper, I am aware
that the posltions and actions which I cite as offensive
are also the product of experienced and dedicated Agency
enployees, to whom I impute no dishonorable motives,
However, I believe it fair to state that the present.
operational philosophy of the division is tailor-made
to suit the. KGB; several present and past SR Division
officers have made this observation. It appears to me
that the division chief's preoccupation with the KGB ana
mania for attributing so many of the world's 111s to thom
4s a product of his own professional frustration. An
example of this outlook 1s given in Attachment D. He
appears to hold the KGB responsible for a long history
of personal failures: :

a ed



Se

ae

ff

h

i.

-as head of the[REbSOx base in Germany} he had
0

major responsibility for. the failu
such operation which we ran.

£ every |

He was publicly disgraced by the ri a coe
recruitment failure te Visnnae

After he moved to peliae Base) Lt. Col. Popov icaecureuritee
was transferred from Vienna Berlin and was 2
soon compromised. :

While he was 4) fporkin Base, close cooperation |

with the [west fart services resulted in the
loss, of a Llarge:number of our agents who were
compromised through Felfe, a | Soviet agent in |
the BND CE Section.

MI-6 ‘staff officer was discovered to have been.
working for the Soviets while in Berlin (Blake).

The Berlin tunnel was @iscovered and closed,

15-8
Several Geriia Base) support agents were found -

-to be under hostile control, and all SR c: a a
oan,

ruoning in Berlin hath rolied up ANEX,

Shortly after he not [UihcurE do Paris, the latter
was called home and shot. .

He was again publicly disgraced by the kidnapping ~
failure in Tokyo.

pe While some of these unpleasant events cannot in any way

= be blamed on him, it 1s easy to see how he may have
acquired a feéling that nothing is bonafide, that nothing
works right, end thati:he must somehow even the score, with
the KGB as the enemy. I believe that this becomes too
‘costly when our intelligence goals and officers are both

expended in the process,

Leonard McCoy
wc/sB/RR





8 2 Apt 1967.

MEMORANDUM FOR ‘THE RECORD |’
2 . ihesessnba Resolution ot ‘the -Hosenko Problea |

seen? “Noeinke bas now boon 'hihd' in eclitary ocufinewmt’ und, tnsomsbgldia
for aluost three years. When we first took this course of action,’ presumably a’
plan was adopted wkich would dispose of the case through normal judiciary pro<
cedures and relieve the Agency.of a penitmtiary role. - -Althougs the. years. should
have boob emp ined ee against. Later the opposite trend is. apparent, -. As

sh lire eagle rarer penning Gcavighiors
pF alate cger geen pag gece gtdrap ome

‘as: ‘soon a Nosenko’ 8 present status. becoses known to various elesents outside ‘the
‘Intelligence. Community. -I further believe that.these risks: grow with tize, and:
that.even if the story is. not surfaced for many years, the dauage will. still be -
serious. While the official. assessuent. of these risks.can only be made. by top

Agency managesent,. those whick prompted me to,press the Division to inivatashenced a
‘ critical review of. the Hosenko case.are represented by ‘the following:

Elements of Congress wio are not favorably disposed ta the Agency; :
- the Director, or the Executive could use the case politically @.)~:
against: those: entities. - Tne greatest risk in this category. probably”
ee vegine in early 1968 and runs through national election cappaigns.

dv. Tae President could suffer personal. exbarrassnent, having. ‘to state:
7 waether he was avare of our handling of Hosenko or eee tee ite

c. trial ae the ¢ case in the. press,. at howe and ‘abroad; probably ‘would °
. mot develop in.our favor. Fine points of CI logic often are not -
2 appreciated within the Intelligence Commnity, muck: less outside. 7

(In fact, the wer i said to Gisagree with our logic in the Nosenko case

7 ae Tae ‘Agency. could be accused. ‘of violating: the BILL of Rights, ignoring:
‘the rights of the individual, usurping judicial prerogatives, and ..:
_arbitrary action under special privilege ("governing invisibly"). .°

Genuine liberals, civil: rightists, and fellow travelers: would have
eee to use neeraee US.

ee. our. ‘treatment ‘Nosenko would ‘be used rt ‘the = Hortets jo dtsceanas
other Cane _ agent candidates: 2

ft. Liaison services are: ‘likely to ance some confidence in ¢ our > ‘coape-
: tence ‘and our standing in -the U.S. Governaent. » (Senior:officers ‘
cls [Of the British baboad have Shai an aber with: our bine
on Hosenko.)-



intelligence ‘agencies will gain by our aiscomfiture,
use.the opportunity to encroach on Agency responsibilities

to me to be most essen:

add to the explosive potential of this - :

es watle in our hands, the political rant-
¢ ‘ppreciably less than if we were:to kill hin.
I therefore submit that Nosenko's status should be legalized as scon as possible,

oS) Se Mosenko ‘akould
@ seai-free status.

we can: maintain suck control. =
Waich could-be statted now. Rekabilitation ©
and perkaps further formal education. __- 35.
. 6. ‘7a Preparing Hosenko for normalization, ke skoula be pata a sub-
“ stabiial:fee "for kis information". We. should also take responsibility for
Bis medical treatzent > Which will afford us a continuing measure of. cotitrol.

As an explanation to him of cur handling of hia to date, an explanation cf the”.
type the Soviets might give should be used.

saould become known publicly, from hia or indirectly,. the same explanations: -
could be given, plus the statenent that his past behavior showed he could be
dangerous to himself and others. : ates peers
T- In light of the psychologists’ evaluation of Hosenko as a week
personality, he will probably seek vindication upon release. It is therefore.
that his release’ be carried out with apprépriate sincerity. Another
ueans of satisfying tata urge on his part would be to collaborate with him in -
Preparing articles or a bock which would tell his story (up to a point). Most
“iaportant, as a weak personality, Hosenko's ability to sustain, his Spirits
through the last three yeara testifies to his conviction that he would be |.
vindicated ‘in time. Paradoxically, once that source of strength is removed,
_ by our accepting ais bonafides, all the complications af his "seriously dis-

‘turbed personality” will probably return. For this reason, close support
is necessary, : ena : no re



28 April 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting with CSB on the’ Nosenko Paper

fos

1. -On 4 April 1967, the present senior ,
case officer on the BOURBON case, Jim Flint, who
was on TDY at Headquarters, ,came to my office
at my request to discuss the bonafides of BOURBON.:
In this discussion I mentioned to him other cases
now going on which Headquarters has related to
BOURBON, and recommended that he ask the GRU. Desk
for briefings on these cases. I also advised
him that a major SB Division paper on Nosenko,
which mentions BOURBON, was now well over 700
pages, and that it was being prepared for the
Director. In addition, I told him that a number
of persons in the Division and outside the Division
who had read the Division's earlier papers on
Nosenko disagreed with the Division's findings.

2. On 5 April I was told, by an SB Division
CI officer who was involved, that CSB had called
him in’on that date and questioned him regarding
the origins of the information which I. provided
Flint. Later I learned that another officer of
the same branch was questioned simultaneously by
C/SB/CI, and that immediately after the two meet-
ings were held, the first officer was recalled
by CSB for further questioning. Both officers
were, sternly warned not to divulge to anyone that
they had been questioned.

3. On.7 April I was called to the office
of CSB at 1630 hours and met with him-until 1730



SECRET

-2-

hours. He stated that he had a memorandum written
by Flint which reported a number of statements
I had made to Flint. He was particularly con-
cerned about an "impression" Flint got that I
had indicated that the DDCI was reviewing the *
Division's Nosenko paper. I replied that I had
no knowledge of such a review, and therefore
certainly could not have said such a thing to
Flint. I repeated what I had told Flint about
the Nosenko paper, as stated above.’ CSB- stated
that for my information, the Nosenko paper had
‘been finished and in the hands of. the Director -
for three weeks, which was news to me. He also
stated that it was perfectly alright for the
DDCI. to have a copy of the paper, in his position,
and that he’ would tell appropriate Division person-
nel that they should not be concerned that the
DDCI had a copy of the paper. CSB told me that
if I wished to raise the level of my disagree-
ment about Nosenko to the DDP or DDCI, he would
be glad to go along with me to discuss the matter
in their presence. He said that he had lunched
recently with the DDCI and discussed the paper
with him, which was not the first such meeting
with DDCI on the subject.

4. CSB stated that because of the privileged
position I enjoy in regard to Division operational
information, he had to be able to trust me in the
handling of that information. I agreed, and stated
that in my. judgment Flint had a need to know items
I had mentioned to him. As to the origin of my.
information, none of which I received officially, -
I stated that I made a point of maintaining a
good listening post in the informal organization.

‘In addition, most personnel who have served in

the Division very long always assume that any
current case will have been surfaced to me for
intelligence exploitation. -Therefore they do not
hesitate to discuss new cases because they believe
I have a need to know. In this respect, I asked
CSB why my office was given no opportunity to
examine the intelligence potential of Soviet de-
fector Olga Farmakovskaya or the new KGB case in



SECRET

-3-

New York. He stated that the first case had

no such value, and that the second was not under
his control. Although I disagree with both :
statements, especially since a Division officer
is meeting with the New York walkin, I said
“nothing.

: 5S. CSB stated that it is eSsential that ~
personnel in the Division, other divisions and
other agency components. do not feel’ that. he and
I have. opposite attitudes toward intelligence
collection. He asked if there was a personal
factor in my opposition to his views and I as-
sured him there was not. I pointed out that as
long as the Division had the negative attitude
which was exemplified by the Nosenko, SCOTCH,
OURBON, Farmakovskaya, the New York walkin, the
OZY case, and numerous other minor cases, we
would not collect any intelligence on the USSR.
This was the only point at which he became upset;
stating that he could not agree with the Polyannas
who say that the US Government is not penetrated
and that the Soviets do not know evéry move we
make. I stated that I did not agree with them
either, but that I disagreed most strongly with
the Division's positions on most of these cases,
and would not defend them.

6. I tried to explain that most of the:
Division personnel who are aware of the cases
which are lumped in with Nosenko have doubts about
the validity of the Nosenko paper. He said that
, he met with them and knew their views, and I sug-

_ gested that his own views, and the deputy division
Chief's, were stated so vigorously and categorically
in those meetings, that other persons were reluctant
to contest these views.. He did not believe this,
but .I’ added that since all of them were at his
mercy in their careers, they did not want to get
into a vehement argument with him, leaving bruises
on both sides. (As I left his office, a branch
chief who knew that I had been there for an hour

enraay
ai baka Ds ie OD



7”

ane atlanta that Aon ont tt Nie Mae ne alin edad duane

asked why I was not bleeding from dozens of

wounds, and I said that I had listened a lot.)

7. In closing I stated that I would not ’
tell Flint that I knew of his memo, but CSB
said that I should tell him. I said that Flint
was ill and needed help, but CSB said he knew
Flint and that it was just separation from his
‘family that had been the problem. (I did not
tell CSB that Flint asked me privately to get
him removed from: the BOURBON job, stating that
he found it extremely trying.” Also, I did not.
tell. Flint that I knew of his memo.) aie

. 8. Immediately after ay meeting with him,
CSB called in all senior CI personnel in the
Division. He began by stating that he knew he
was pompous and domineering but that it was most
important to him to know if any of them had :
doubts about the Nosenko paper. Of five persons,
three admitted, two for the first time, that they
had doubts about the paper. Initially surprised,
he eventually dismissed these doubts as the
reasonable doubt that is always present in the
intelligent mind. He then told the group that
the DDCI had a copy of the Nosenko paper, and
that it was proper for him to have a co YY, so
that no one should be concerned about that fact.
He also told them that someone outside the Division
might be coming to talk to them about the paper.
Discussion of whereabouts of copies of the Nosenko
paper led one person present to believe CSB was
trying to determine how a copy of the paper reached
DDCI.

9. On 24 April my immediate superior returned
from leave, and on 26 April she was called in by
CSB and he showed her a memo for the record of
his Conversation with me. He stated that he did
not intend to forward it to anyone. He said that
he had discussed the incident with DDP, who was
concerned, and with DDCI. He also indicated to
her that he intended to continue me in my present i
position and to’"stand by" my promotion recommendation

>



SECRET
-5-

which he has again submitted. In the memo, he
repeated the assertion that I had told Flint |
that "a group outside the Division" was going

to review the Nosenko paper, which is a slight
change from what he told me, and information
that I did not previously have to tell anyone.
My superior indicated to CSB that I had already
described my meeting with him to her. cena

LVM Sy

