# 104-10063-10254

## Page 1

1104-10063-10254

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

C.RE'T

PROCESSING ACTION S2:

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Chief, Ft China Operations

Chief, WOUSE/SO; Chief, WUR Division

NO INDEXING REQUIRED?

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM.

Ichef of station, Ottawa

iss:

MICROFILM

* TAPPER/CO THABOVE - Contacts with PRC Officials in Canada

ON REQUIRED • REFERENCES

Actiona

Reference

OTTANA 21354, 3 Apr1l 1973

Ottawa

The Individuals who fell into the categories elted n

OCOW-7980. were forwarded via reference.

63. Because the Infornation In the attachment emanates fron

delicate sources, FHABOVE request that no action be taken thate

could jeoperdize the security of their sources

TheodoreeD- NOLTHAN

attachnents:

3. Blind Memos

A tween that ea

Distribution:

отід сни

C/HOMUSE/S0..att

C/LUR att hw

10336:

DAVE

#: 0C0Á-17634

• CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

3 April 1973

HOS FILE NUMBER

76/120-179/1

---

## Page 2

14-00000

§ Mar 73

SECRET

- Charles WHITE

Chairman of the Chinese Culiural Party,

Washington, D.C., U.S.A.

visa enquiry

Source learned that WITE had forwarded a one hun-

ared and ninety-tro page proposal in a red jacket

wiüh a dragon

along with his

application however

source did not believe this had been received yet.

WHITE reportedly wishes to go to China during

July 1973 and study for tro

WHITE also

vished to visit Ambassador YAO Kuang on the 20

Har 73 however he apparently as advised that the

Ambassador is in Peking.

Source learned that

WHITE had also enquired about a visa for Steven

Loring JONES,

a. student of architecture, (place

unknon) U.S.A.

• Source learned that tille coula

be reached at

202-636-4636.

— Tom SCHULTZ,

student at University of Chicago

Chicago, Illinois

wished to visit the P.R.C.

- Mr. N.I. CUSHING,

of Andrew Imporis,

99 Madison Avenue,

New York

had a tentative appointment for 15 March 73 to

-Paz 280ch portation of

silk.

President of Dresser Industries,

Houston, Texas

had an appointment with a commercial member for

13. Mar 73.

The P.R.C. Official apparently request

ed

that Louthais bring any information available

on the price lists of foodstuffs in the U.S.

Dr. E. Grey DI:Oi:D

Kansas City, Missouri

had received permission for himseli, his wife and

seven heart specialists to visit the F.R.C.

They

planzed to enter China on 22 April 73.

Appli-

cation forns would be hailed to DIMOND at 5650

ward Pariway, hansas City:

Source learned that KoO, Ching in (Third Secretary

(Press) ) atiemied

to contact inCHMUED" this date

but had not been successful.

Source was of the

impression that this was in regards to en urgent

matter.

Source also learned thet "MOHAMED" cOuld

be reached at 215-221-5150.

SECDET

---

