# 104-10048-10151

## Page 1

1aAAe

1704-10048-10151

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

Chief, Special Affairs Staff.

PROCESSING

pup.

POSED

XXX

Anton

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NU INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADOLARTERS DESH

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ARSTRACT

MIEROFILIA

LACCO..

PLISHED

TO

INFO.

FROM

Chief of Station, UMWAVERER

SUBJECT TYPIC/Operational

AMCLATTER/1: Progress Report fOr May 1963

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

ACTION: At your discretion, take appropriate action on paragraph II(2).

REFERENCE: UFGA-910], 21 May 1963

Operational

CIT:CUBA

1: Subject continued the hand-holding of Jesus PACHECO

Gonzales) pending a final decision on his utilization as an infiltree.

M Branch-is currently reviewing the debriefing file.

Subject spotted

Jand developed (Angel MiguelX ESTEVEZ Nunez, former undereround so-

ordinator of the Juventud Anticomunista Revolucionaria (JAR), a)

Garceran-affillated groun

The extent of ES'TEVEZy knowledge of

persons, places and things Cuban, as detailed in Subject's report,

aroused

the interest of PM Branch to which he was turned over in

mid-May.

AADOL.INFO.SKE

DOCUITENTE

Subject' development of fedro APrINET Fraga {201-285267)

as a source of intelligence on the residual CRC from his vantage

general secretary, came to fruition on 29 May when

the latter

agread".

to provide information which would not normally be revealed to non-.

CRC members or passed on through liaison contacts with the Cuban

Affairs Coordinator in Miami. (MARTINEZ) apparently "bought" Subject's

recruitment approach to the effect that our recent efforts on behalf

of Cuba had been hampered by lack of full knowledge of the activities,

capabilities and intentions of the various revolutionary groups and

individuals, being limited to tailored information which was more

often what these people wanted to believe than reality.

Subject

claimed that the pitch" was his own idea, and that if MARTINEZ was

(CONTINUED)

Distribution:

3 - C/SAS

INDEX *

INDEX-X

12100-9=14

"CAROSS REFERENCE TO

Excludad tram auterstr

019-9-911

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

201251689

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

23 June

63

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-9745

HEADOUARTERS FILE NUMBER

8201-251689

• 8002262

---

## Page 2

13-00000

_CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

GLASSIFICATION

SUCRET

PATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

JEG4-9745

EiT:

UBH

anendule he would pass it on to nis suveriors with a request

for financial help.

MeRITAN? aureed without reserves but

insisted: that financial renuneration was not

_necessary

the source of one disseminated report (see t'roduction,

below prior to this inma: recruitment, and we will vatch

his production during June.

If he appears to be cooperating

fully with Subject, we will request a renewal of his

nim $175 per

month, his former CRC salary:

hand, he appears to be using Subject as a

liaison contact

a channel for influencing ODYOKE in favor of the CRC,

he will be dropped.

II. Production

1:

Although Subject submitted a good number of, reports

which were of interest to JMVAVE internally, only

three dis-

seminations were credited to him during the

UFG-2781 (cable) from Frank Fiorini and Pepin Bosch,

"Frank Fiorini's Agreement to Participate in Air Strike

Against Cuba":

UFG-2901 (cable) from Frank Fiorini, "Request by

Venezuelan National that Frank Fiorini Purchase Arms

for Him".

UFG-2922 (cable) from

Pedro Martinez Fraga,

'Possible Cooperation Between Manuel A. de Varona anc

Manuel Artime!

One item of information which Subjact received from

Frank Fiorini on 28 May was considered.

possibly of interest to

Headquarters, but probably best not forwarded in reports

Fiorini said

that he had spoken twice during the month with

General Clare Chenault, Jr,, who phoned iron California.

Chenault indicated his

desire to participate in the anti-

Castro effort, and asked Fiorini

about the different organ-

izations in the Miami area and their leaders.

reply put Manuel Artime at the head of the list, and noted

that lack of financial backing was Artime's most pressing

problem.

In the second phone call, Chenault recommended

Artime solicit aid from the representatives of the Chinese

Nationalists in Washington,

and urged that nis (Chenault's)

name be used. Fiorini promised to pass this on to Artime

when the latter returned to the U.S. from a tour of Latin

American countries.

called

Information on a possible new labor grouping in exile

Alianza de Trabajadores Cubanos was received from

Sub-

ject early in the month, and was forwarded

as an attachment

to UFGA-8970..

WHER

Another item of possible disseminable value received

at the end of the month was a letter received by Mario MARTI

a Cuban lawyer in exile, from his father-in-law, Miguel.

MERVANDEZ Banza, who reported targons derable detai.

conversation tith an unnamed member o

the Cuban militia.

The letter may also be usable as propaganda without endangering

the writer.

IIT.

Financial

Subject was paid $500 salary for the month of jay, less

$79.93 withheld for Federal Income

Tax.

was reinoursed

$101.50 for operational expanditures including use of nis

"ORM

1401

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CS COPY

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

¿M SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-9745

POV for official business.

IV. Future Plans

Subject will continue his rounds of the exile conmunity

in general,

but will also look for nore covert sources of

information such as the (NARTINE2) development.

He will also

be useful for debriefing of now arrivals from Cuba who are

with revolutionary groups of interast to JiwAve.

regard he shoula

be of considerable assistance in

the influx of Uruguayan asylees.

End of Dispatch

D002262

500™ 530

1401

usE pREviOuS SOITION

CLASSIFICAL'ON

SECR.T

PAGE NO

CONTINUEO

3

201-251689

---

