# 104-10506-10021

## Page 1

1704-10506-10021

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

вт,.

SECRET

November 1976

SUBJECT: Byron CAMERON (No 201)

U.S. citizen

1. Owner of vessel Cayman Hope.

2. a. UFGA 15233 dated 15 April 1964: (Filed with AMCANOE Op)

Report on a Byron CAMERON who said he represented an

unidentified group of persons who had made contact with two Cuban

gangsters who were willing to kill Fidel CASTRO.

CAMERON reportediy

was associated with a Mr. S.W. TYLER (no identifiable traces) of

Caribbean Producer, Inc., Miami Springs, Fla., and Herbert F. JENNE

(no traces) with the firm F.A. Johnson, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

b. UFGA 15954 dated 11 May 1964: (Filed with AMCANOE op)

CAMERON mentioned contact with unidentified group

willing to assassinate selected Cuban leaders: Fidel CASTRO, Raul

CASTRO and Che GUEVARA. CAMERON made fairly clear that the Mafia

was involved.

c. HJKA-161 dated 1 March 1963 - 103-8-1

Dispatch from Kingston to Hqs. forwarding a report from

on the M/V Cayman Hope, its crew and owner (CAMFRON). Stated

that the Embassy had received a report from the Treasury Department

which indicated heightened interest in the activities of Mr. Byron R.

d. WAVE 4993 (IN 26174}. dated 19 Nov 64 19-6-104-4

CAMERON was sub-source for shipping information provided

to Agency by AMWAX-1.

Said that cargo vessel "SS New Providence" owned

by handis in Miani, the, el Far was TransChipped, to s known to Load

Imc

---

## Page 2

13-00000

- 2 -

e. DBA 77673 (FB) dated 15 July 64 (Filed 19-9-9)

Plan of Cuban exile leaders to assassinate selected

Cuban Government leaders.

Cuban exile approached on 2 Mar 64 by owner

of whip which sailed under British flag.

Had contacts with underworld

"tie-in partner who was former police officer from St. Louis with

to elements of "Cosa Nostra." Cost was $100,000.00 to kill

Fidel CASTRO; $20,000.00 each for Raul CASTRO and "Che" GUEVARA. Persons

involved were Byron CAMERON, owner of M.V. "'Cayman Hope," Teofilo BABUN

Francos, co-owner of Antillean Marine Shipping Corp. and two BABUN

employees: Oscar FERNANDEZ Veigo and Eliseo GOMEZ Fernandez, Jose

"'Pepin"' BOSCH, and Julio LOBO Olavarria. Eduardo GARCIA of Garcia

Lines, NYCity, also in contact with LOBO and BABUN.

LAD/JFK Task Force

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DISF ATCHN

AOBOIAR

Chret, u bimcion (iint Chiots Tos Vorod 4)

Pidori

-Chlet oristetlon, Kinmtor

:::/Asywtropart.on.k/wsyah nops

NTV KNOS-0219; NJKA -2112 2103-0398.

Sto cvold delay

ohed ToM FOABBLl

10e crel and owner 1

Intorgat and timalini

RUABBE on 28 Fobruaty: 1963

rocelting 1t.

26

FUACIR-/Mua conutiyo to foltoy this

Tho imbassy

heschtened Intoreat

RIi ploase card ald nares in

3"0398

to

in

tror to tontogo bey no vull taann

Srom

the

Iroe sury

äctivitle

totwinr. Byron Hi tCo

arerente

whioh ind

ched report

OL TVCH 3E BYN

Oein Rlyun

ume

nts

roport

Distribution:

3 Hge (w/ato)

DATE DRS

1 March 19632 1M

TAAETI

CS CUPY:

---

## Page 4

13-00000

по ства but

Scepos

ao datui s a on

MRSMEaL

dock k

no ps

8% Bi

C HO

vaBocT

and tott

tha

MLÀC IUUAIN FAKA

WATLE TIX NOIUKN NX XANL A

seo tn roreru rron boet op

dotot fl oalebari 9dt,X

Mx conmna.

Tca pont KaceeraE

( 5)

(0)

56:8

ML cuSxt 1 500 lours

"A1)

дотком о undee

siles and both er tlirtiola Molol

408H

toril

LAMOLEY 91 P

Db tontro:

300

HTO Iroer LEtTLAT.

•rsunod re niiid wicr

fihlsky.

28:JONO LARSEBILO

ton vich ea.

she

ounn ooompeni

CAM BRON

пото of sha

day andrbourdodiche

LI LUEtHO CAM BROKS

As ton

sawing di souastoncin th

mion harhandedkan

sttio:

onew.

Hn 111rEbponFR42G(Nooten) 39 Угокот1416й

*) Noscelyn u RIVoRGA mat

(c) restnala HAnas (lnt. Digtnoor) 59 ycei

42 D098 D IURVo SoN (2adianaLs

S226.y00f08

aCCPEnU

---

## Page 5

13-00000

1-22

vv, bana cereal nore

Montoeo Ray.

8-Possadre e 1o04d

sale:

---

## Page 6

13-00000

NOV: 198231z.

C O1R. INFO

P LINTEL TYP

вуок

Lana

lane poss

4P

WAX-I IN REPORT OTD IP NOV 64;

ION, QUNER OF NESSEL CAMAMORE. PLS PROTECT, MINIPER

DOITIONAL IELD COMMENTS BASED MOT EE-1835 AND BARR 1173.

RIDE

PLS INDEX:

FIKED 1822212)

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY&

CUBA MONITED KINGDOM NITED STATES

C SUBUR 5I TRANSSHIPMENT OF CARGO FOR CUBA

¿ DON PRIOR TO 18 NOVEMBER 1964

ADAS UNITED STATES; MIAMI (16 NOVEMBER 1964)

urc-6228

19 NONES

OURCES A CUBAN EXILE WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE ANTILLEAN MARINE.

19-6.-104/4

---

## Page 7

13-000

CIA TID MIAOL

1 22 9 08 AM 9S

PAGE 2- IN 26174

SHIPPINO CORPORATIONS THE INFORMATION IS FROM THE OMER. OF A VESSEL

ENGAGED ON CARIBBEAN, SHIPPING;

4888?-

114°.

TOC

DATE DISTRIBUTED.

"SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00

DATE ACC

H26174

JAMAS OFE IP MOVEMEER 1904, CREWMEN OF A CARGO VESSEL OPERATINO

IN THE JAI AREA SAIO THAT THE CARCO VESSEL ASS NOL PROVIDENCE) CANED:

C

SOY NOREER THOMPSON OF THE KEL FARM SUPPLY CONDARIA

WAS KNOWN TO LOAD

MERCHANDISE IN MIAMI, FLORIDA, WHICH WAS TRANSSHIPPED TO CUBA, THE

VESSELADECLARED AN UNSPECIFIED PORT ON GRAND CAYMAN, A BRITISH POSSESSIQN

SOUTH OF CUBA, AS HER POINT OF DESTINATION, UPON ARRIVAL AT THE

PORT, HER CARGO WAS UNLOADED ONTO THREE CARRIERS, THEN SHE SAILED TO

A PORT AT THE END OF

THE ISLAND ANE RELOADED THE MERCHÄNDISE WHiCH WAS

THEN SHIPPED TO PORTS IN ORIENTE PROVINCE, CUBA.

"R

28

THE CREWMEN DESCRIBED ONE SHIPMENT CONSISTING OF 3,080 AUTOMO-

contains tatorseinc

SECRET

RICORP: MIA NiC NO VEL OCI ONE OCA ORE: 00

81369 53

IN COPY

lI COPY

---

## Page 9

13-00900

SECRET

RIMAMIS

OILE ATTRAICA MIGNANO A CARSO POR DIE IEN MOVIDENEE ORETINEO POR

AJ CICLO COMUNTE ACCOROINO TO LLOYDE APRIMO POIDICE, TIE

PRONICENCET MAL DECH CROCA DE ANIT INA ACLOTA O DANNATLA

LTO, MISSAU, SINCE IST

THE VIESCE AS MASCAL

DOMINI PERCHE CONTICINO ELION SE

ACOULO HOT BC POSITIVELY IDENTIFICO.

FIELO DISSONE CINCIO, CINCLINT, COMICSITOR, MIAMI ROM

OF STATE, BORDEA PATROL, CUSTONS, CONST QUARO, POI. (MiSO SENT

LONDON S

15

SECRET

ENO OF MESSAGE

MIRATI

---

