2
{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 199:

“"o4-10232-10004|

10 Cetobor 1961
MEMORANDUM FOK THE RECORD
SUBJECT: seeting with De, M1KC Cardona on 6 Cetober
1. De, 2KTAG argived adoud 9:50 3.m,. for tho mecting we had
sot at 10:56; agein ho was Uriven by his secrotary whom he introduced, '

As during the iret meeting, she remained outeide in tho car, Our
moeting Issted uatii 12:00 noon, etadect

2. Fhvet, Dr, MIRO handed me a note in tonghand Noting the
topies diseussed with mo on $ Cetober, These points ara:

8. Groups conducting propaganita, otc. with Agency support
should recetve theiz support aad be coordinated through the Council,

b. A propaganda campaign chould bo waged by tho Council
aimed at:

(1) Cuba, via a long wave radio station in Key Woot.
{2) Cubans.in Miami and other U. S, areas by:

fa) Subsidizing Diario de las Amoricas.

(o) Contracting for time on radio stations.

{3) Latio America, witha plan euch as tho Operacion
! Grieta,"

€, Underground Activities.

(1) Provision of monthly funds to Council fer procuring
Cuban posce to send to the soven-odd rosiatance
bFoupa in Cuba through rellable chanaole (such ao
previously sent through the


(2) Commando action as outlined in plan proseated
to mo on 6 Cctober,

3. Commande Plan

: Then Dr, MIRO handed me a plan (iz English) for Clandestine
ection prepared by bis military collaborators, whom he named

Colonel Manuel VAKELA Cactro, an officer of the Academy, Captain
Enrique DESPAIGNE, and Colonel (fau) MONTSAGUDO, He atated:
that thuy wore of tha BAROUIN group and had boon prisonere,

‘ith reepoct to tho plan for clandestine operations in Cuba,
ho etated that 300 sen could be counted apon for commando action, part
of them here, part in Cuba, Ho reiterated that a commando operation
was eavontial to bolster morale among the anti-Caotro elements in Cuba
aad in exile aa woll aa to conduct sabotage that would furthor weaken
Cuban economy and tae Comnunist Fogle, He said that far thia operation
U. 3. botp would be nzceseary in Providing weapons, aramo, deraolitions,
equipmout, and funds, fe proponed that ff thin plan was considered to

* havo merit, that T arrange to have someone rooet with hie military men

to work out tho detatie. After all preparations had een made and
materie! provided, ete, the operation would be purely a Cuban affair,
(NOTE: Pian turned over to Thainpoon at our me eting at 15:30 on

6 Cetoder for tranamisatoa, }

4. Request for Arrno, etc. to send to Xacambroy

Dy. MIRO reroarked that over & month age he had made a request
to Clark for arme for the anti-Castro insurgents in the Hecambray, but
to date had heard Nothing relative to the Tequest, He commented wryly,
“I agk but novor hear an answer," He said that the fighters there should
be oupported. Dr. MIRO atated that he had a boat (provided by us) and
3 meana for delivery of the arms, Osvaldo RAMIREZ ia chief of the

Eecambray group, :
COMMENT: Has anything boen done about this request?

5. Information on Arms Received by Castro Reazime
ee aE eet ived by Castro Rezime

Dr, MIAC nanded me a long report which he said was brought

to him by the Argentine Ambassador to Cuba when the latter came to the
U. 3, at the time of resident FRONDIV I's visit? He sald the Ambassador
natioa but commented, "You will

would not divulge the source of the infor

know,"
*Report turned over to Thompson on 6 October.

el


Seoul

Dr. LARG aid there was ao way to determine the accuracy
of tho figures given of planes, guns, otc. received {ror the Soviet bloe
(and holy and Canada) but even if the Ugures were exaggerated 100 per
cont, thoy would atill be impresaive.

He added that Castro to daily becoming stronger militarily
with weapone and with a large militia of close to 300, 00 being trained
to uae them while the economy continues to deteriorate. Perhaps aaly
half the militia would be effective. But that fa sizeable. Thus, he eaid,
the longer the dolay sn positive military action to overthrow Castro, the
Greater will be the task. "We must act goon, vigorously and effectively, i
to ineuro victory, Anothor defeat would be disastroua and would make
Cabano, igtia Americana and others belleve Castro to be invincibte,
Then would come accommodationa and even worse, tho Sraplanting of
Castro-backed regimes in the henilophere, And the U. S. would ouffer
worst of all, being discredited for defeat and "guilt of interforence,
“In tho UN no nation wouid stand beside the U. 5.”

6 Proposal that Council a2 to Cuba with Commando Group and
stablish a Government on Cuban Soil
Dr. MING then declared that he was Convinced that Castro
would never be overthrown by all the propaganda, tho Sabotage, commando
raide, guerrilla activities, rupture of diplomatic relations and doteriorating
‘economy, and that it was incenceivable to establish a goveramont-imoxile
for nothing would ¢- mo of it; that tho only solution for defeating tho
Castro regime was for the Revolutignary Couacil to go to Cuba and estab-
Meh a yovernmert on Cuban woll, ask recognition by alt friendly countries
and military aaoistence of its priripal ally, the U. 4., and that the U.S.
be roady to intervenc immediately with its Forces. This would all have
tc take place ina mattor of 42 houra, otherwiee it would fail, 1 recognise
that thio is a bold plas, but boldnoss ip necessary, There will be many
riske, many may bo killed, As for myoelf, I don’t caro if die, Ihave
lost all my persona! possessions and my oon is a prieoner.” He reiterated
that all muat be well propared in advance, there mrist be no vacilatioa,
Svorything must proceed rapidly, First, a comciaado raid in force to
seize a piece of Cuban territory, preferably near Cuantanamo, and imme.
diately the members of the Council yo ashore, proclaim a provisional
Bovorament, broadcast by radio to all nations an appeal for recognition °
{and cables prepared in advance would aleo be cent out), Fequest U, 5,
assistance, ood the U. S, should fursish ouch avolstance at onco in ado-

qaate strangth to cnaure victory,


ple
sil ‘

Before such an acticn ta undertaken, the enemy must be
softened by propaganda, sabotage, raids, underground action, and the
moss of tha people of Cuba must be prepared to accept the provisional

d knowledge of the Council

Dr. MIRO asked me what I thought of this Project; did I think
that Castro could be overthrown tn any other way. ladroitted that
Strong military action appoared necessary. ‘I otated further that
of ¢ourae his plan would have to be studied at the highest governmont
levels. He proposod that ho mizht elaborate a plan with hie military
collaborators, and I suggested that ho do thie go that it rolght be examined

and considered,

Oabotage, etc. and that enemy ctateo will denounce it for Latervontion
in Cubs, but that Uf tha U. £. 298 to the ald of a friendly revolutionary
regime established ia the country and helpa it defeat the Sovtet-backed
Communist regime, atl fviendly governments will applaud,

“f have no personal political ambitions," doclared BURG,
“I merely am trying to chair the Council, whose mission is to unify the
aati-Castro clemeate inoide and outside of Cuba. If the team isn't con-
sidered effoctive, then change the pitcher, But 1 believe the Council must
establiah ftscif on Cuban ou!l, and soon, Time is against as. "The . unta
det Eete agrooment will batifire ayeinst the U. 8. uf Castro ie allowed
fo romain fn Cuba. Ina year, alter the politicos of the countries re-
colving U. 3. aid have gotten their hands on U. 5. gold, they will say,
‘Thanke to Cactro, wo got this.’ And they wil) Spend St ag in tho past
with no benefits to the social and economic welfare of the People,”

7. Views about the Judges and Lowy:

Tqueried Dr, MIRG as to his views relative to the Judgeo and
lawyers and their futare ctatus. He eaid he hoped that they could all
Founite and that they could be zivon aasietance ss in the past. Me dee
clared that Dr. ALABAU was not qualified to be a justice and that hewas
doing nsthing but making politics and trying to discredit the Counest
and MIRC and VARCNA, Dr, wiIRC doctared that he, as Prime Minister
in the early days of the Castro government, had named ’ LABAU to the



eaten |

Supreme Court, but that now ho considered “1ABAU unfit to hold any
Judicial position,

8. Members of the Rovolutionary Council

Dr. MIRO remarked that ho had a meoting of the Counci! on
10 Cetober. I asked what elements now Composed it and what he pro-
posed to add, Ho namod the following as prosently in the Consajo:

Rascate

30 de Noviembro
MRR

Accion Demoeratica
20 do Mayo

AAA Independiente
MDC

Montecristi
He said he had invited to join:

MRP
Unidad Revolucionaria

and awaited thelr reply,

He would also like to have the Workers, Students, ard the
Professionals (Doctors, Lawyers, etc.) come into the Council. He be-
Heves Batistiancs and Comunistas and elements unwilling to cooperate
should be excluded, but that all other Soups should be brought together

under the Council.
ept clandestine

He sontends that all anti-Castro activities,
and military, ‘should be coordinated by mombers of the ouncil, but that
the excepted activities should be known anly to him (MIRO),

9. Probable Argentine Rupture of Relations with Cuba

Dr, MIRO declared that he believed imminent the Argentine
rupture of rolations with Cuba. He said the Argentine Ambassador to
Cuba (Julio AMOF DO) «za ordored to return to Havana (he had been
vacationing in the U. S. after FRONDIZI's visit); that VILLANUEVA, a
Secretary af the Argentino Embassy in Cuba was coming to see MIRO
today; and further that he (MAC) bad received a phone call last night

1
i
I


ext |

from a Spantard (Nicanor FERNANDEZ) in Buenos Aires, urging MIRO
to go to Buenos Aires to arouse antl-Castro sentiment of the peoplo,
inasmuch a9 some Argontine action against Cuba appoared imminent.
(FERNANDE Z said he had alvcady written MIRU a letter.) MIRO says,
“Of course, cannot go. Ihave the Consejo meeting un the 10th,
Furthermore, Iam going to New York on October 11th or 12th for the
SLP (Socieded Interamericans de Prensa) meeting and have been allotted
12 minutes to addrecs the meeting.” :

10, MIRO to attend Homage tu LACE RDA {Brazilian who
Precipitated GUADKCS' resignation) on Sctober 15,
Dr. MIRO sald he planned tu remain in New York City (after
11 and 12 Cetober SIP meeting) until October 15th to attend the homage
for LACERDA, the Governor of Guanabara province in Brasil, MIRO

probably will stay at tho Park Chambers Hotel, but will advise Clark
of his location,

T commented that I would probably romain in Washington next
week in view af his plans, but that I might go to New York City to roeet
with him; if 60, I would get in touch with him and arrange a meeting

time and placo through Clark,

11, Propaganda Commission

Tasked Dr, MIRO about bio ideas on the futuro organization
and structure of the Propaganda Commission. He etated that it ie out~
aide the Consejo and net under his direct control, although the Counell
accountant hag been passing funds to it. Ho sald CATZRILLO had resigned
a0 head of Propaganda and that ho would like CONTE AGUERO to handle
it. He claimed that MESTRE had not dono anything with propaganda,

12. MIRO's Views Relative to Supreme Court Juatice or PRIO
being Kecognised as Head of a Provisional Government
Tasked Dr. MIRO ff he bolieved that there were many anti-
Castro Cubano (both ta and out of Cuba) whe favored PRIC, or the head
of the Supreme Court to be the provisional president if a government were
to be established on Cuban soll. Dr. MIRO declared that the revolution

{a a fact, and that practically nobody wants to go back to any former
regime. The people in Cuba would resist any such possibility, He do-



whe
nounced PRIO's activitica against the Council and ito efforts to unify
tho anti-Castro elements. He eaid that the Peovle ahould be given an
opportunity to elect their chiof of state after Castro's overthrow and
reestablishment of ordor in tho island.

33. Offices of Council (Coasejo Revoluctons rio)

When questioned about his business and private telephones,
MIRO seid, “The business phone ts also in my house. I have no office

excopt in my house, but that phone to always busy (JEfforson 2-4680),

Se use the other phone (JE{ferson 4-275!) when you wish to call me,"

“I need to have a small office somewhere away from my home
because all the activitices there are driving my wile crany, I want to
find something modest 90 that no accusation can be made of ostentation «
merely a room for myself, one for my secretary, and ono for meetings,
of the Council, etc. Tho FRD hada Place but at that place also wae the
proses, the refugee center, ete. R would not be satiofactory, The FRD
io now practically dead, R wae the forerunner of the Consojo as the

unifying agency of the anti-Castro resistance."

14, MIR Views oa Coordinating the Activit of Cther Exite
G

Foups

After Dr. MIRO reiterated his view that he should be the
channel for funds and coordinating the activities of groups outside the
Consejo such as the Students, FORD (Labor), ote. » Paaid that I under-
Stood that sorre of these elomonts were unwilling to function under the
Consejo; and that in view of that situation, did he considor that an
Activity Committee might be organised with a delogate from each of
those groups and under tho chairmanship of a membor of the Consejo,
Thie would serve to coordinate their activities, give them a tie-in with
the Consejo, yet not make them subservient to it, Dr, MIRO replied
that this would merely set up cnother Concojo outside of and parallel to
the oxieting Consejo. I did not pursue this {urther, not having enough
background of these organisations to be able to discuse tho matter

effectively,

13, Telephono Cenvorsation with MIRO on 7, Cctober

Before my departure from Miami for Washington on 7 Cctober,
T telephoned to Dr, MIRO from the airpert. He appreciated the call and
Seked if I had seen in the morning paper the action taken yesterday by

7
pep eer


tho ALABAU Lawyers’ group in proclaiming Julio CARCERAN (one

of tho chiof justices tn exile) as President of Cuba at War." He exe
pressed his indignation at this unilateral “political move by ALADAU
and his adherents among the exiled lawyoro and judges, Ho added hia
best wiahes to me and reminded mo that ho would probably go to New
York on Cetobsr J}ts oF i2th for the SIP (Sociedad Interamericana de
Prensa) meeting. 1 repiied that I would Sppreciate if he would contact
Clark after his srival to give his locatian in New York City, and that
Clark might have a request from me for an appointment with him, if
this seamed deoirable. 1 cuggeoted that in future phone conversations
I would be known as JUANITO, He agroed with pleasure that this would
be a geod procedure. I wished him Godspeed and he replied Mkewise

to me,
16. Comment

During these first two meetings I andsaored to establish.
myself favorably with Dz, MIRO and therebro refrained from bringing
up dotalle of budget or opposition to any of his epecific proposals.
Tletonod, asked various questions, and ho talked at length,

In futare mectings, after I havo gAined further background and
have more policy guidance, I shall be ablo to discuss with him opecific
feouss and endeavor to reach agreements or compromises, as may be

vequired,

