meen

2
{104-10414-10368) [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 199:
. Ww ao VY

A
Chief, KURIOT Attn: Photographic Branch Ess

No twocing aquiREO

‘ONLY QUALITCD ots

Chief, WH Divis: on
Chi

& Operational Monthly Report -- 1-31 December 1963
‘ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

f of Station, Mexico Cit:

mcnori

Action: None. For your information,

Rresented below is a reporting of the operational and support activities
of Gregory D, PARMUTH for the above mentioned period,

General Summary of Activities,
mentrai Summary of Activities.

Activity for the month of December consisted of the following:
‘Installation of the SEQUENCE camera at the LIERODE basehouse; Assistance
was given to C/MKCHARITY on an audio operation against an LCHARVEST
target; A locked door containing audio equipment was opened by PARMUTH
at an LP monitoring the LCHARVEST apartment; _ Station production totaled
2,325 for the month; One agent was trained in SW; and Photographic basehouses |

covering Soviet and Satellite Embassies produced below average production
because of the Christmas season,

2. TDY

On 16 December 1963 Peter T, SWINEHART, POB, arrived at Mexico
City to install a SEQUENCE camera at the LIERODE basehouse.

See para 5.g,
- of this report for details.

On 17 December 1963 an SWB representative arrived at Mexico City

(continued)

— (Eni:
1. Training Report (KASNICKA)
2, Sequence Camera reports (3)
3, SWB Report

- Distributio
74 - KURIOT, w/encls
1 - WH, w/o encls

GROSS REFERENCE TO

rae Tite

DISPATCH SYHBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-~22726

‘CLASSIFICATION

Belg SECRET



Le DISPAICH

for the purpose of training PARMU‘TH in the use of hu system 99.
purp ining

3. Training.

Sec training report forwarded as Enclosure lon Lewis F, KASNICKA.

4,. Operations.

None.

5. Station Support.

a.
in installing audio microphones under the flooring of an LCHARVEST occupied

apartment. (See HMMA~22608, ll Dec 63, para 5.d.) Lines leading from the
audio installation to the LP were strung and secured below t
ample semi-crawling space between the target area and the LP apartment.
RESCIGNO and PARMUTH entered this crawling spact by removing a emall
section of flooring located inside the LP apartment, There is also a trap door
leading into. the crawl space at the front entrance hall of the building although
the curious would be discouraged to enter this area because of stagnant water
six to ten inches deep on the floors at all times, cob webs, pugs, etCer etCeee

Three audio microphones were installed on this operation.

b, During the period 2-14 December 1963, PARMUTH again handled
LIFIRES 4/5 while Marvin A, CABOT was on annual leave.

c. On 6 December 1963 PARMUTH forwarded to KURIOT/WAVE,
ers two orders of envelopes (six month supply per each request)
and one request for stamps. The envelopes were handcarried by Timothy A+
CAPRIOTT to WAVE Headquarters, avoiding @ week's delay if the exvelopes
Jere cent through the pouch from Mexico City, The stamps were handcarried
ee ela ad Washington.

Headquart

d. On 6 December 1963 PARMUTH was requested to re-enter the,
LP covering the LCHARVEST apartment as reported in para Bia.

went which monitors LCHARVEST activities in that apartment. Although the
bacehouse keeper had a key which worked well for several days previously, the
lock would not open for the agent on the afternoon of 6 December. ‘PARMUTH
catered the apartment at 0130 hours on 7 December and unlocked the door, It
was found that the throw bolt
purposes, two other locks were removed from other doors located in the same
vom to check if these locks were in the same bad condition, In each case,
ee excessively, t

snapped.
door by the pasehouse keeper on 7 December 1963.

ec. On the night of 7 December 1963, PARMUTH was requested by
the COS to install an extension phone at the COS residences After a short
training period given by RESCIGNO at the(MECHARITY base, PARMUTH was
Oe which
replaced one removed (for study) by KUSODA officials who inspected Mexico.

; f{, On 10 December 1963 PARMUTH photographed 423 frames, usin |
the Recordak to fulfill a monthly Staff D requirement for the Chief of Station. ©

g. On the morning of 17 December 1963, SWINEHART, LIFEUD/2:
and PARMUTH met at the LIERODE basehouse to install the 35mm SEQUENC
camera and the VLS-2 trigger device, SWINEHART instructed both L-22.and
PARMUTH very thoroughly’on the installation and maintenance of the SEQUE”

or
‘paves ARE ORSOLLTE

rom ae pabvqus cairo |
eT) ge ann 8.

Le
ey

On the morning of 1 December 1963, PARMUTH assisted RESCIGNO

he flooring which had

of this report-
The purpose of this visit was to unlock @ closed door which stored the LP equip- |

located inside the lock was broken. For security

he throw bolt |

LY

‘A new lock of the same type manufacture was installed on the closet |
|



Fa canna 1s sTreeammemnantt a3
Yodo wpe Y : ran oe ¢
i [+ peamera. The compleh system was then dismantled by SWINEHART so that L-22
could re-install the system from the-beginning. This was done by L-22 and met
with SWINEHART's satisfaction, Although the Cotisulate door was closed

public for a period of six days for unknown reasons as of the night of 17 December
1963, tests were made using the SEQUENCE camera photographing people walking
by the Consulate door, The camera worked well and produced good printable
negatives, On the morning of 18 December 1963, L-22 contacted PARMUTH and
explained that the Cénsulate door was now open to the public and receiving

visitors as of 1010 that day, PARMUTH and SWINEHART joined L-22 shortly

later at the LIERODE basehouse and found that the camera system was working
well and photographing people entering and leaving this target area. SWINEHART
then processed this film at the Station lab and made sample prints of the day's

take to be presented to the COS and C/PBRUMEN for their approval, Both were
very pleased with the photographic results using this type of camera equipment,

at the LIERODE basehouse. As of this reporting, the SEQUENCE camere ie i
using approximately 100 feet of Plus X film between 0900 and 1400 hours (office
hours for the Consulate), L-23 uses the present dark room area to: photograph
traffic entering and leaving the front gate of the Embassy and is on duty from

0800 to 1800 hours daily, six days a week. In order for L-22 to Process the film
from both of these cameras and make prints daily, it will be necessary to install
another darkroom at the basehouse.  L-22 will need a Morse Tank for processing
film, a drying rack, and a small PAKO dryer for finishing prints in order to |
satisfy PBRUMEN requirements at the Station, Forwarded as enclosace 2is |
fhe installation, mmd statistical and training report concerning this operation.

bh, On the night of 17 December 1963, PARMUTH and SWINEHART
Went to the Mexico City Airport to meet a visiting SWB TDYer and assisted him
through customs, Before the plane arrived, PARMUTH and SWINEHART took

the opportunity to inspect the{passport camera located in the Immigration Section)
of the Airport, ~ cara a 7 ~

i, On the evening of 31 December 1963, PARMUTH was requested by
Michael C. CHOADEN, C/PBRUMEN Operations Officer, to make an emergency
meeting with LIFEUD/22, The purpose of this meeting was to pick up photographs
and logs for 30 and 31 December in connection with a priority PBRUMEN operation.

6. Station Support (SW Activity).

a. On 6 December 1963, ‘a visiting TDYer from Tegucigalpa requested
PARMUTH to trainGWLUCK/I in secret writing. Training was carried out on
7 December 1963 ata local hotel in the city. SW systems 37 and 58 were used in
this operation as per KURIOT instruction in DIR-87130, Forwarded as enclosure
3 is the SW report which is to be sent to SWB, _ re om

bs On 20 December 1963, PARMUTH was trained in the use of sw |
system 99 by a visiting KURIOT technician,

7. Miscellaneous Statistics,
aoisceManeous Statistics,

2, Number of operational targets surveys completed during month: 0,

b. Number of TDY trips completed during the month: 0,

Photographic equipment issued for operational use: SEQUENCE Hl

4. Photographic equipment repaired: 0,

e. Number of people trained in Photographic techniques/equipment: 2, i

CUSSFERTION AGEN

Fors 4
er 53a 5
wr 8

‘Ous EpiTigN

Sb sia SECRET Fexadconrmnto 3.

