# 104-10225-10057

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10225-10057

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DAIG:

D.

UNIT:

C/WH/7/DR

1537

11 Aug 66

DIGGKA DY -

O PILE RIO

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:25

SECRET

ACUTINO

5

O PILE IN CS VILE NO.

201-751751

— 3-

O ORETROY I RETUAN TO __ BRANCH

FAiM: DIRECTOR

come: 121152

FERID COPY

IMPOs VA

WHER CLINOCE

TOLXJUTPIESTIONT

SECRET

TO SANTO DOMINGO

1 2 60.21

CITE DIRECTOR

IZiPO:

27237

JMWAVE

DYVOUR PBRUMEN AMMUG

REF: SANTO DOMINGO 1555 (IN 71092)* OVER

1. HEADQUARTERS LUCT ENDORSES STATION VIEWS. DISPATCHES

CITED PARA 1 REF HAVE BEEN CAREFULLY STUDIED HERE AND FOUND MOST

HELPFUL. WE WILL BE COMMENTING IN SOME DETAIL ON SAME BY DISPATCH.

2. AGREE THAT CURRENT PERIOD OF DISORGANIZATION AMONG LEFTIST

PARTIES MAKES THIS IDEAL PERIOD FOR EXPIOITATION, AND HEADQUARTERS

URGES STATION TO MOVE AS RAPIDLY AND FORCEFULLY AS POSSIBLE DURING

THE COMING MONTHS TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF EVERY POSSIBLE OPENING.

3. SUBJECT OF REF CLEARLY FITS INTO THIS CONTEXT, AND WE-

CONCUR IN PROPOSAL PARA 4 REF. DIR 26638 WAS INTENDED IO OBTAIN

SUNWARY OF STATION PLANNING AND KNOWLEDGE OF SUBJECT STATUS, WHICH

P.

RELEASING OFFICEA

(CONTINUED)

COOROIMATINO OFFICEAS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

THAN THE ISSUING

OFFICE IS

GROUP I

anapoleo

101 10 0 111,4 on 0s

PROMIBITED.

AUTHOOTICATING

coor no.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MESSAGE FORU

TOTEL COPIES:

SECRET

LiMIT.

CAT

DATE

DISGIA DY -

PROM: DUNSTOR

• FILE RIO

O INORA

O NO IMORK

O FILE IN SO FILE MO.

2

3

O DESTROY @ RETURN TO → BRANÇH

_ PER -

= TECAUSIPICATIONT

SECRET

PAGE II

[I RIO COPY

INTO: VR :. 9118

TUATE AND TINS MEGOT

CITE DIRECTOR

27237

REF PARA 3 PROVIDED, THERE IS CERTAINLY NO QUESTION ABOUT

DESIRABILITY OF APPROACHING SUBJECT. WE TEND TO AGREE WITH

YOUR PARA 5 REF ESTIMATE THAT SUBJECT LIKELY HAS UNDERCOVER

ROLE.

END OF MESSAGE

749651

*WH CONNE TERE

WILLIAN V.

C/WHD

ACLIASINO OFFICER

AMMUG- 1

pitch Francisco MELLA Pena lO

CATHYFT

C/WH/C/CICS TYDAL

(TELECORDS

COORSIMATINO INDIGERS

AUTHENTICATING

SECRET

REPRODUCT

_. OY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

decapading on

FOOT Na.

PROMIDITED.

---

