# 104-10163-10136

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10163-10136

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SENDER WILL CHECK CL

UNCLAsSIFIED

SIPICATION TON AND BOTTOM

1 CONFIDESTIAL I

L SECKET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS.

DATE

INITIALS

MAS/ESAC

Lug 13612

Sung

NC

*тюм

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

AMCLATTER

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFONMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIANATURE

RETURN TO CLA

sectoround Ver Ont

Do lol Proproduce

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO BENDER

DATI

USCLANSIFIRD

T. CONSIDERITIAL.

SECRET

000489 237

149 preylous adttions

(40)

•S. A CONCOMMENS TO, 19140 GUTIES: 10010-967201

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECHET

Forme Contacte bazana Staton

ablo personil courage, go:s security and cormon sonso. In sy xind te

do tre ideal sypo of Latti Asasican agent.

It w1l1 be

a real losg to

the "Agency 1f na lose aizlie or contast with adolfo.

I DATe I0%

Sex Des

more dedicatod and soro loyal.

5.

15

234104

IMFAR-3.

Fecruited by A'PAy-i and 80

CLOBA

to tach other that ve reterred to tren as tre

nsult just tvins..

Pason dis in tro shIppIg bidisess in Favara 101 eventuali tai so

Lenta: in 1099 118 tora, caro, furalshiars, ele.

18 DOr

plaaaine so sort ta do licarazus, unú l rate recorsenied te is te

¡scarasus desk li. Frenta). O3Po has ail the qualictes agerlbed es

Adolfo sili FELTO lode abomi exsent lose he las rever bees an iperseas

citizon.

He greaks excellent Erallah. F: 18 codliated, courageous sod

D0Bs anxIous to raintain contact wich the igoacy. it vil to our joas

11 Enla la sol dosa.

259:009

d.

ECrETi Le BRIKRE- AMCLATTRA-L.

WLío: Clara.

Berker is &

CubaD-10e=1ca51.

2x-Castain In the U,j.Á.F. Seo PHA End 20% 13= foil

blo dale. I recrustod jarkos In 1957, end he seres leichfully ast'1

my had to +x8111ra4e ble a000:10 10 1460.

"A FOCIUILES & DUDDRI OL

MAlUADiO AFORLO fOS. UDe STATION (LICLUNLIA ANCLATTER-S, MAICA 800) 0Jd

bad as anasing. escycloondie inouledge of juban parsons, arests not sos

tacta 1n all valks of 1150.

He boss a boxliy raJager dod koau in-lataly

all Cuber: parsonalitles engaged in the sporting Industry, De bai a suppy-

dog logally 10 919 casa offIcers and to tie ATonoy, H1s biE:T:: veRkren

sas his lack of diarration.

•Ho ma such a lOJA! ÁDAIiCaS (aIRily sE

sat rochnically) that he vould slaht al the dico of a kat 15 anyone cast

aspersions on the Unired juros of lis leaders.

In the arcarasere of

Castro'a CoDe I sight day inas char ves quite often.

no ana LA tro

PrOCoss o! KoiDing his recover biE lOse inTicen clutrenshio, "ben ske

Station reopaDe I wouid certainly reco-zend thit ve c00s1.ue ro 50152019

contact with taskar.

If nottilad alse so vould rako a vunderíül log-nas

for tho chios of Statson. Mla vito is an altructire inian cal vis is bi-

lingual did as beiligerentiy "inoricano as

18.

EarkeT, by locks sos

by langurre, could pass elther as an huerices or a cubes - a gasulne

asset It ho could ba taughs to mibrerza ble toericanies.

?.

FirM a ATTROND: lI CHiA dO 9 TOBUè OÎ ChO 1744 Of iDIII LaTaSIES).

Manojo is varsina ios u9 son 10 M1ar1, and I presso ve have fril blo

data on this J'aruio's fasily ownad,

alone with Eoputi1: Stoel, iDA biE

rand pinet in barna which vas satloraliza1 by the C6s.r0 tezies (CLe

3.4.), Manolo has a brother, be= 1,50; sto vous

1180 be worth cuitstatise, Trouch ils ivalaus ani Isilly cAtaction

Manolo tiny a BraGE sare peoplo of eparational 1açaress.

Erlasdo vur DETIA SALVAti,

al chouph Manolo 11d DO% DraTO SAISADOR'O

p51191901 941-41-515595005

2e?s

encrustared arone iet".

SECRET

3/BR

---

