# 104-10118-10347

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10118-10347

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992/

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM

:

SUBJECT

:

5 November 1976

OLC#76-320/

AlCondssassents

Mr. Lyle Miller

Deputy Legislative Counsel

Budget

HS CA

S. D. Breckinridge

Deputy Inspector General

77-0016/5

Estimate of Number of CIA Employees •

Involved in Support of Warren

Commission

1. We have surveyed DDO, DDA and DDI components for

a statement of the number of employees engaged in support of

the investigation by the Warren Commission. It was difficult

to reconstruct this with any reliability, many of those involved

no longer being available. Names have been taken from old

records and the memories of those involved in some way at

the time. We cannot with reliability be sure how much time

of each was involved.

?. We estimate that very close to 50 professional employees

were involved in this activity on either a daily or recurring

basis. We have identified twelve of these being involved on a

daily basis. There obviously were others involved on occasion,

but not regularly. In addition there were a number of secretarial

and clerical employees who provided support, but who are not

counted; the number may be greater than the fifty professionals

estimated above.

3. Attached for your information, but not for release to

the Downing Committee is the summary work sheet on this. This

memorandum is classified Confidential because of its attachment.

The information in this memorandum can be extracted and passed

to the Downing Committee on an unclassified basis.

7.D. Buchil

S. D. Breckinridge

17744

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 2

r

CONFIDENTIAL'

CIA PERSONNEL INVOLVED IN OSWALD CASE DURING EXISTENCE OF WARREN COMMISSION:

DCI

J. McCone

DDP

R. Helms

T. Karamessines

CI STAFF - J. Angleton

R. Rocca

T. Hall

A. Dooley

B. O'Neal

E. Egerter

Jane Roman

T. Flynn

J. Ludlum

P. Hartman

IH DIVISION - J. C. King

(J. Whitten l

SR DIVISION - D. Murphy

T. H. Bagely (SR/CI)

L. Wigren

(Brasko)03

OFFICE OF SECURITY - E. Mendoza

Col. Edwards

1

1

*1

*I (point of contact with wi

* (in charge 23. 11-63-mid 1.64)

*1

* 1

1

DIVISION D - ?

Added DDI

1

2

FIELD STATIONS: Mexico City - W. Scott *1

D. Phillips *1

Allan past at|

Miami

London

The Hague

Germany

Stockholm, 14-

lelsinki)14-

Madrid

Bern

Brussels

(Canberra? 13-4

(Copenhagen) 14-6

Lûst0

5141

Rome

SOV/SAT OPS - Paul Dillon

Don Vogel

Cynthia Hausman

Robert Steele

CUBAN OPS -

Stan Archenhold > 03

Joseph Piccolo

*Involved on daily basis

1

1

Gilts

Tolal +50

perre scott, Flyan

2 MADET CI oN 004645 deceased

CONFIDENTIAL exclusive of cretar

---

