# 104-10119-10116

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10119-10116

MAME

* 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRAVEL ORDER

PCS

77204-793

INVITATIONAL

FI 313-60

SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER. NO S

1:- Hoverd Funt

OFFICIAL STATION-

(Instagree)

OFFICE PHONE

GRADE

Monterideo, trepuer

16-24

85-15

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS.

.. THIS. TRAVEL OR

ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE

Mastersdoo, sangary to treatestors, Bat.

PURPOSE: INS

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

sit!

T:!"

10 37 kr

(See below)

AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE

CENTS PER WI

NOT TO EXCEED

COST BY COM-

MON CARRIER

CENT'S PER MI.

AS MORE

ADVANTAGEOUS

• TO GOV'T.

TRAVEL DURATION

END

BEGIN

DOMESTIC

& NE

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

PER DIEM ALLOWANCE

MAXIMUM

FOREIGN

OTHER

by state becauso of resignution fron state.

NAME

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED

DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONSHIP

ACCOMPANY TRAVELER

FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS

ADVANCE RETURN

SIGNATURE

COORDINATION

• TITLE & COMPONENT

PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY

TRANSPORTATION REQUEST

∞ CASH OR OTHER

DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS

AUTHORIZATION

SHIPMENT

TETORA PORARY

SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZEO

EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED

ACCOMPANIED

UNACCOMPANIED

LBS AND MODE

LES AND MODE

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

$200.00

(02)

800.00

81000.00

I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE

OULIGATION REFERENCE NO.

373

CHARGE COST CENTER NO.

ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED

ACCOUNTING DUE DATE

DATE

0295-5319-9000

SIGNATURE: OF B & F OFFICER

YES

NO

DATE

B sit often co t

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

COMPONENT

Soone

SIGNATEREVC

LEUNT bHOCERZHE BUINCH

AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

714 S3

TO 3NA WOE AND TITLE

20 June 1960

COMPONENT

SIGNATUS, CA JOLRO

80-5o-1969

(20-10)

FORM 540 OBSOLETE

3-50

PREVIOUS

MFG 5-50

EDITIONS.

218R

---

