# 104-10227-10150

## Page 1

14.00000

• 104-10227-10150]

- *

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

SEULET

102620208 1961

LE MORANUUM FCE THE RECORD

SUBJECTS MOOLAS @ILL DE. AIlAC CardunO On 6 EclObor

Dr. bilili arrived aboué 4:50 a.m. lor 840 mootlas so had

got de 10:00; agaln do mas drlven by hla pocratary them ho inspuduced.

As sur tag the lures snooting, odo recalned outalde la the car.

Oux

+000:2ag 1as80d as51l 12:00 n000.

Za 51588, De. MIRO handod mo s a010 in longhand Hallng tho

¿ê Glacussed Wila ma and Ccroder. Thado pairio aro:

8. Groups conducing propaganda, ate, *lth Agency support

shed rocaine these support and to cooratnated larough lino Council.

b. A propasanda campaign should do mayod by the Council

aterned at:

(1). Cabs, ula a leus wavo saddo seattor in loy li cos.

(2) Cubana 1a Miami and orbor. U. di. aredo by:

fal Subsidiaing Plarto de las Anierteas:

(a) Contracting for simo on pacito arallone.

(3) Latio Ameries, silà a plan such ao tha sparacion

firiols."

c. Undorgacund acelvisloa.

(1) Pronlalan of monchly lundo to Councll los procurlog

Cutan pesos to dond la the saven-odi reslulance

¿rouge lo Cabo larough rollable charmelo (such as

previously sent through tho

---

## Page 2

(2)

Commando acidon as outlined la plan proncated

• 10 12:0 0n lo tclobor.

3. Coraniando Plan

Thon Dr. MINC: handod mo a plan (la Laglial) lor cianderlina

action prepared by bla millilary collatioratoro, ahoin io samod ss

COlOnOl MARLOl VANELA Castro, an allicer of the Acadoriy, Caplaloi

ENTIDO DESPAIGNI, and COlOnOl (ÍDL) MONTEAGUDii, le alacod

that thoy moro of the BAHQUIN genua and had boon pelsonoro.

*seà roopoce to phe plas 1or clandoallãe operationa lo Cuba,

so orarad chat 300 men conlo do essted ugon los coinmando actica, part

al thorribora, part lu Cuas. Ho reileraicó lhai a commando uperalion

mas obduatial lo no por torale arrour tho unil-Caoeso ciomones In Cuba

atl la elle sa coll sa to conduct sabotago that wouid furthor wenten

caban economy aud the. Communtad roziina. Ha aald inas lor this aperadlon

U.S. help would ba docessary in paquidig woagono, asino, demoliiions,

aquipmont, and fundo, Hio proposeá that 18 thia plan vas conaldo red lo

¿ave merit, that l arrango to lave comooue moce tica hio millllary mon

es wurt out the dolallo. Altos all propuraltane had deen made and

mato:lel providad, alc. Rão operatica wouid do purely a Cuban alfair.

MUTE: Plan turned ovor lo Trotaçoca al eu8 no elia at 13:30 en

L5.à1IRO Penasted test puer e month aço ha bai risado a roquest

to Clara lor arma for the anti-Cantro insurganis da tho iscandray, but

to dalo hai heard sothing solallve is lde sequeal. Ho cormanted aryly.

'T and bue naver bear au auavor." to caid that the lightero there abould

de aupisoriod.

Pr. MING sated that he had a boat (arovidod by us) and

a meano for delivety of phe arma. Covaldo BAlilki a lo cidel al trie

=ecaribray eroup.!

COMIAENT: Has anythlas dees dono abert tals requese?

3. Informaston on ArIO leceirad by Caosro Fagimo

U8. MIRO handed int a lone report which he sald mas brouglit

8o hino by tho Argentino Ambasgados la Cuua uben tha larios camo lo tro

U. 3. al the timo al Froeldont ¿'PO: uli lo visit. «rie palú the Ambaguador

mould sos divulgo the surco or the lalormaston bul commonted. "You will

$. 200.

* Report turned over to Thompson on 6 October.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

DE. AIRO Old shero Mao no ay l6 dureruine lie accuracy

of lio laguros alvon of planes, guns, els, recolved irom daa sovier blos

land haly and Casada) but aven ll the ligures more exaggeralod 100 pos

caal, they could slill bo ingressivo.

so aùdod thal Castro do dally becontag alronger militarliy.

vita weapons and miu a largo militia dí closo to 300, 000 boing esoinod

so noe them whilo the acadany coutlives lo detertorale. Jerhaps only

ball she militia wouid bo afíocsivo. But lisat la siseablo. Thus, so aald,

she longer the delay lo poallive military accos lo overthrow Castro, tho

STORIES Till DO Là0 Last.

•in'e sual ael soon, algoroudly and ellectivoly,

to susure victory, Anothor doloat bould bo disastroug and would mato

Casnino, ¡alla Arserleans and albera boldero Cagera lo ba inviprisio.

Then sould some acconnoiailone and over sasso, the displandina of

Caster-bachod roginea in she dorsiaphero.

And the U.s. would sufior

worst of all, being alecrelted ios dalcar and "¿alls al lateríorenco."

"It dies tini no sation wouid siand boside to u.s:"

6. TRoposal 1ha1 Gonnell 1o 8o Cuba with Commendo Group and

Lataulish a Goveroment on Cuban oul!

Dí. MIno then doclared that be tao couriacod thai Coorro

wouid never do overthrown by all tho propagania, the caucrage, commandu

raldo, guerrilla actritics, rupturo of diplomalie relations and detestorating

oconenly, dad 12a1 11 was inconcelvable 1o 01sablah a covarrions tiresile

for sothing wonld c mo of ll; tuss the only soluilia lor defeating the

Castro rejime was los the Revolutionary Cracli to go 80 Cure and estab -

11ah a govoramost 0n Cuban soll, as recognillan by all iriendly couurios

and silisaTy anolarenco el lla pricipal ally, the U. E., and that the ú.5.

Do toady to interrove Lumediatoly with lia forcos.

"This would ail have

¿ lato placo do a matter ci 45 bours, clherulos le mould fail. I rocogriso

that ible 1s a bold pias. Dut bolossess la necussary, Thore sill be nary

Bloko, PReDy Eay bo bllied. As 10s majoeli, I done caro li 1 dia, Ibara

1as1 all my posoonal jossaasiuns and sly son lo a privorer.

i lie reiterasad

that all ¡aust de wall prepurod in advanco, inora suvas be no vaciliadior..

everylling must procood rapidly. First, a conciando said la fosco lo

delta a ¡loco al Cavan lastllory, froloradly Dear Grantaramo, and loinio-

diately tha natenisara al tha Council ju ashore, proclalm a prurislandi

governnient, orcadcast by radio to ail nations an appeal lor recointles

land cables prepared in advauca vuld aloo ba vent cul), requear U. s.

aaststance, and the li. S, ahonld luralah anch assistance at unca is ado-

quale serongli to endure victory.

3

---

## Page 4

4-00000

S2O 2T

Belore ouch an pellon in undertaker, the enemy frast los

salterad by propaganda, calclare, raldo, undes grunt action: and the

1:aaa of the penple of Cuba sussi be prepared to accept dio aporigionai

goverinant through propaganda, Incruasad inoslodgo of ibe licencil

and is iniljing esturio.

Do. MINO anted sie chat atrought al into projoer; did i sulas

chal Castro could do overthrora in any olior way. ladmiittod taat

airony rilitary action appeared necessary. A otated further liat

al course bla plas mould have lo be arudied al ibe highest Enrerament

lovaio. He proposed that ho mighe elaborate a plan vida his tallitary

•collaboratoro, and l evagoscod thas ho du lila so suat it migue bo examined

and considered.

•Dy. Mili declased thes ho maa convinced that this Car runtat

degzer la tha gido dí the states could only do eradicalod by suca action.

that the U.S, lo and alll lo Diamed lus all anti-Castro propaganda.

sabotago, eic, and that enory otacon will dionounce ll tor larerrarilon

In Cuisa, bus that 1í the li. ". quea to the ald al a friendly regalettonary

restine astäbliched Ir the cosalry dad holdo i deloat lie Sorin-LaCed

Cosimuniat rogime, ail tricadly sovernmouts will aguland.

"I hiro no parsonal polliicei arnbltlons." doclared silli.

"I merely aos trying so chatr too Counell, enose miosion is lu anily ine

ants-cas850 elenses natio doú outaldo. of Cuba.

" the tearo lon't coa-

sidesod allocilre, tea chango the pitches. But l believa tha Craneil rouzt

outabitan itaall on Cuban guil, and 30ua.

These 1s açalnst us. ""Tou i unta

del Lato agrenriens will bartfira ayalues the U.S. il Castro le alloriod

do serialn in Cuba, Is a yoas, aítor to polillcod of the connerlos se-

coivlay U.S. all have goller their harris on U. d. gold, tay will bay.

"Thanko 8o Easlro, Do 501 1410. " And they will apond li as di lio yast

vish no benefito lo le social and econonic tellare al the sorlo."

%. Vious about the Judzos and i awyara

I quaried Do. AilRi do to dio viewa relative to tao parzoo and

letyars and thair futuro statua, Ho salú ho durad that choy coalé all

roanito and that thoy cüuld be giron dastorance as la tho past. He de.

clared thal DE. ALABAL naa doi qualified lo ba a justico and lual as was.

dadaz maching but sat lag jollica and trying su dioc podie te Council

BOd BIRC And VARONA.

Dr. jiRl doclared Liss de, as FTi=s Liiniotes

In the ostly days of tho Caetro dovernmont, had ramod LAint to tbo

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Supreme Court, but that now he considered i LABAU unlit 8o hold asy

Juddedal position.

Bo Mombers of the Siovolullunary Council

DI. MIRO: rersorked that ho had a nootiaz of lso Council on

10 Ocrober. I aakod wast alemenia now composed it and whäi he pro-

poood to add. Ho nanad the following as prosontly in lho Consojo:

Rascaro

30 do Nortombro

- MAR

Acelan Damocradica

30 do sayo

ANA ladopondiento

MIC

Montecristi

Ho said ho had invited to Join:

MAP

Untdad Revolutionasta

and awaitod theis reply.

Ho movid aiso like to haro the l'ortera, Studonto, and tho

Professionale (joctors, Lawyers, arc.) como tato the Council. He bo-

loves Batiotdanos and Comanlatas and alemonis unwilllag to cooporaro.

should be oxcludod, bus that all other groups should he brought togethos

andar the Council.

Ho contenda thas all anti-Caetro activilles, except clandestino

and milltary, should be coordlested by mambars of the Council, but that

to excapted activilios should da knowa osly so him (MIRO).

%. Probable Argonilne Rypsuro of Rolatloas with Cuba

De. MIRO declarod that be boliorad lininineas lso Argontino

rupture of relationa with Cuba. Ho said the argontine Ambassados lo

Cuba (Julio AMUE.DÜ) was ordored to retura so Havana the had boon

vacatlonlag in tho ll. S. aftes FRONDIZ.l's vials); that VILLANUEVA, a

Secretary of tha Argentino Erabaddy la Cuba was comtay lo 300 MIRO

today; and furthor that hu (NINO) bad received a phore call 1a88 right

---

## Page 6

4-00000

S2312T

from a Spantard (!!(canor FERNANDEZ) in Buenoa Alroo, Urgin:: WIRC

tO gO tO HUODOS AlTOO dO ArOUDO antI-CastrO dentirene of luo pooplo,

lniao much so some Artentino sellon aralnst Cuba appeared Imininont.

(FERNANUE] saId Do bad already WI1110A MINO a lOltOr.) MINC Bajs.

"Of course, l'cannot go. I bave tha Consojo moeting on to 10th..

Furthermore, I am golng lo New York on Carober lith or 12lh for tire

SIP (Socloded lilaramericana do ironos) reating and bavo boes allorted

12 inlaules lo addrass the mnoöling."

10.

MIRO lo arrend Homago 1o LACERDA (Brasillan who

Precipitated QUADICS' realynatlon) on Octubor 15

DE. MIRO sald ho planned lu remals la Now York Clly (altor

11 and 12 Celober SIP mooling) until Uctober 15th lo astond the bornago

1OS LACERDA, the Governor of Guanabera province In Brasll. MIRO

probably will atay al ibo Park Chambaro Hotel, but will adviso Clark

al bia locallan.

¡ cominented that i souls probably somala ln laubtagion soxt

week in rhom al his plana, bus that l misbe go to New York City to moes

mito him: 100i I would soi in touch with him and arrango a mosting

¿imo and placo tbrouga Clark.

11. Propazands Cominiasion

Iasked DE. MIRO about hia ldogs on the luture os ganizatión

asid siructuro of lo Propaganda Commilaston. Ho stated that 11 to out.

aide too Consojo and not undor hle direct conirol, alhough tha Couscll

accountars has boor passing fundo lo 11.

Ho oald CAIRILLO had resignod

as head ol Propaganda and lhat ho would ilia CONTE AGUFRO to handia.

16.: Ho clalried thai MESTRE had nos done anythine: wils propaçanda.

12. MIRiNa Views Holalive lo Suppero Court Justice or PRIO

baiar rocodisod as licad d a iToviolonel covernment

lasked De. MINO If he bolloved that there were many anti-

Castro Cubaän (both in einid vut of Cuba) who lavorad PRIC, or the bead

of tha Supremo Court to bo the provisional proaldont 11 a governnient woro

so be astabilahed on Cuban sotl. Ur. Milled doclared thai the revolution

lo a fact, and that practically nobody wanto to do buck to any former

rogirno.. The people in Cabs would rediat any ouch poonibility. Ho do-

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SOMET

DOUncOU FAll's activities againal the Council and lla efforto to unily

the ants-Castro oloments, lie dald that the poo:le should bo siven an

opportunity to elect thair chiel of slala aílar Castro's overthrow ani

racerabliatinent of order la cho laland.

13. Ofíicao or Council (Consejo Raroluctorario)

Hibon queationod about ble duelness nud privato selaphones..

NiTRO ssld, "The brolness phono lo also in my bouso. ¡'havo no arlico

except la my house, but thai phone le alwaya busy (JEllereon 2-1680).

So ude loo olher phono (JEllordon 1-2751) whos you wieh to call mo. "

"I sicad to bavo a sma!! oilico conomhero away from my homo

becauso all the activitles shore are drivlag my wifo crasy. I want lo

lind somoshlas modost so that no accusation can bo inado al ostontation:

morely a soara for nrysoll, one los my ancreaty, ase one for rigotinge.

ol lhe Council, otc. The FRD had a place bul as that placo alao wão the

prons, the rolugod contor, sic. I would not be salloractory. Tho FRD

1o now practically doad. It was lão forerunnor ol the Cansojo se the

andylag agency of the sall-Castro soslolanço, "

MIRC:O. Vlowe on Coordinating the Actimlles of Other Exilo

Groupe

AROT DE. MIRO rolleraiod hla vion that be abould bo tho

channel for fundo and coordinatlaz the activilles of sroupa outaldo tho

Connejo auch so la Studento, FOMD (Labor), ofc., l aald that l under.

stood laal doma al those alorenta mero unwillins lo funcilos under le

Consojo; and lhas In vlow of that siruation, ld ho considor thas aa..

Activity Commistoo might ba organized sill a dole dato frono pach of..

shona groupe and under to chalrmanilip of a momber of the Concojo.

Thia would sorro lo coordiiato laoir acilnitios, sive shem a lo-la with

the Consojo, yos not mato them subservient lo it. Dr. MIRO ropllod

that thio would morely sor up another Consejo outside al and parallel to

the existing Consojo, I did not pursue thio luriber, not having enough

backgrouad ol thore organisaliana do be ablo lo diocuss tua mastes

effocrivoly.

15. Tolephoro Conversallon with MIRO on 1 Cctober

Before my departure (rom Milani los liashlagion an 7 Ocrobor..

1 solaphoned to DI. DilHO (lan the alrpari.

Ho apprectated the call and

anxed ill bad seen in the morning paper the action taxes jestorday by

---

## Page 8

SLONET.

ChO ALABAU LAVyOTO' arOUS in prOCLAnE JUllO CARCERAN (ono

•ol cha chiof juotroo In oxtio) an ""'pooldest ol Cuba al "'ar." He er-

pressod bid indignalion al thia unliareral "polllical" move by ALADAU

and hia suhoronto anony the axlled lawyers and judges. Ho aculod his

beat wlanes to irs and reininded mo that ho would probably so to Now

York on Cetober litti or 12ih los the SIP fioclodad Interamericana do

Pirones) moollag. !'roplied thas l'vould apprectato ll he miuld contact

Clark altor bio arrival lo givo tila locatios la Ne York Clly, and that

Clara might have a request from ma los an appulniment with him, l1

pale soomod doelrablo, I ruegonlad lbal la futuro phono conversations

¡would be known as JUANITU.

Ho agroed with pleasuro that thie would

Do à good procoduro, I mlabad blen Codepoed and ho ropliad lovilse

80 mie.

86: Commont

Dirtos those flot to mioollago londoavored to cocabliah

myool favorably with Dr. MIEC and herofore rolralnod (rom bringing

up dilalla of bedgor or oppoosion to any of lis specille proposali.

1 ilorosed, satiod variova quossloaa, and ho taliod as langes.

la future sosottago, citor l havo galood further beckground and.

bave mare polley guldance, I shall be ablo to decues wilh him spocile

loodd's and endeavor lo resch agreements or compromiads, do may be

segustati

---

