# 104-10071-10081

## Page 1

1104-10071-10081

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

COMFIDENMAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

1951

RATRUCTIONS Are donations eboad to end la ta TO catara Under cent corains a los and to draura ester edes

al est creamat numbered to ceraged will el verator la la "TO" calumn Each alloct ascald batsial (obost resos to these)

basers farter rooting This Routing and Placed bout etersil to retard to Registry. 23}

пітЕм.

то

1.

HF19P

0000

DATE

COSIMENTS

400%

Pud

4 act

1.

/...

I1.

LA

3 0 5 2 4e

15.

F/P

1409

MB 1820

Evastat

ansaia

8911

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TO

DISPATCH SO. _CRIA-162

EEi.. 1rog 3iic18 septe 1952

SUPJECT :

Chard, "DR

Crier, CArnan) 12-15

General - uperational

Stecific - Countess Elion Hohenau

1.

subject, a "orman Countess with a reputation as

a horgewoman, has deen

in jordan since the end of June 1951.

incouraged by the publicity gained

following her trip from Jeruany to ione as a pilgrim on her frabian are,

subjeot decided to undertake the trip to Jerusalem

on horseback in order

to rather entertal for newapaper and tarazine articies.

carryine a letter

sent by C1a19 20040

Luce to a mutual friond in Italy indicating an interest

in the c templated trip to Jerusalem, Subjoct proceeded. in Beirut where she

contacted Fell, the "Emaste" correspondent,

"lthough she received little

ncourarement from 9e

L, she gtirted out on the journey and reached tacan on

23 June.

inter a sught delay in Aman because of 1linegs, Subject had audiances

With AbdulLan

'and Naif and laier contacted Glubb Paohalwho furnished her with

an Arab Lagion escort for the last leg of the trip to

• Jerugalen.

Upon reach

Ing Jerugalen Subject ias, received by Katie intenious and pregented to a numbai

of Palestinians including ir) Mousa Rasayni and his German wife.

Shortly

after

Subject returned to Amman from Jerusalem, iblullah was assassinated and

Subjoct was questioned in an effort to establisr.

Dr. Husajni's connection with

the plot.

She convinced the police that she knew nothing of the scheme.

3. By early rugust Subjoct's resources had drindled to practically nothing.

Through

friendo in the Arab legion cavalry

she wis able to secure accommodations

at the Lerka Camp (15 miles from Arman) as the quept of the vegion.

chis poriod subjoct became acquainted with Colonel

rabis (ey tajalll, the

commanding officer of the lashomite Rogiment of the Legion and a judge in the

Abdullah assassination trial.

Following the exposure on 1 September of the

schero to placo Naif on the throne and the posgible involvement of Majalli

in the plot,

jubject was again questioned regarding her activity. However she

rostod Glubb Pasha and convinced him that she had

no interest in polities and

that hor only reason for being in Jordan was to pursue her interest in Arabian

horses and to sathor photographs and other material for magagine articles.

obtained his permission to remain in the country for a few weeks longer and on

18 Septembor accompanied Majalli on a trip to Kerak and Agaba in ordor to obtain

material on the Bodouins.

Before leaving she stated that she will spend about

con days riith Najalli and then a few in Amman bofore starting out on the return

trip to europe.

do Althougs, the drab Legion does not object to Subject's presence in the

country, che Primo linister's office is anxious to have her leave as soon as

Thoy considor Subjech with auspicion because: (a) they clala that

¡chouch sublect states that she is fron wootern Gerany they havo information

nsi one is irom irussid, lb, of her sriondohip with the Hugaynis and lajall1

iN COPY

CARD REPRODUSTIONS

..:-2. 4!

8911

---

## Page 3

14-00000

rago aa sand

CONFIDENTIAL

no abovo la botra forarusa to hondquartoso des cartire sau te Suou

Gogys

12-31

Balnet

12-18

FROM APERTURE CARD SURMITTIO

10543)

---

