‘pees: ote «_2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

oe : CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY .

Tats ter egtsns arustiva amvtng the waist Defen ofthe Cutet ute wate the meaning oft Htees
Uso" tee hoa nea toe tne unsounens oy foicia of wake to say tnanee te ae wancibonae peree  peomeee bw RETURN TO CLA

SECRET a Background Use Only
NO FOREIGN BISSEM _-_Do Not Reproduce
countay Caba/Dominican Republie neroet NO, CS CI-316/02516-64
suuict Silvaao LORA ‘Vicente : OATE OXSTR, 9 December 1964

NO. PAGES. 1

\
Dare of 2964 :
INFO.
puceg Washingtoa, D. Co at ecu :
Date aca. 1964 E __FIELO REPORT NO. ~ ee te
+ TITHE TF UNEVATUATEO_FOWAATION SOURCE GRADINOS ARE OUTOUTIVE avruaisan OF COnTent IS tewtaTIve.

source: A former Coban IS officer. wn sarved with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
anformation provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

.

It 18 requested that the addressces take no action on any
of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports
without farst checking with this Agency.

Source identified a photograph of Silvano/LORA Vicente seieare
and said he was one of a group of fifteen Dominicans who
arrived in Cuba to undergo guerrilla warfare training. — <1f emp ncav
Source saw this gcoup of Dominicans while they were in
training school aad believes that LORA was still in Cuba
: at the time he left because documentation for onward travel
had not been prepared.1 .

Headquarters Comnent:

1. See CS-311/07076-64, from another source for more a
information on LORA who returned to the Dominican
Republic on 27 November 1964, by ship, from Spain,
France, Algeria, and possibly the Soviet Union.

= 5

™” 7

3 SECRET 3

3 NO FOREIGN DISSEM 2

. Iy-lo 1
‘Start Tor Tater Txavy Taw Trsa 1 ow

REP CINCLANT __CINCSO # TENS (ALSO SENT 10 CANTO DOMINGO

Hote: Figld distr bvtnen awated by "37D,

ia Apia ——— to prosecr ase 1)
" Ht ——_ jCSCI-316/02516-~B4
[oon lal

: a
ore a i
[78a 8 (1), WEL (2), CT 6, 81D 1, WE AQ) (5 Hey lRg2ePR ev

chi kepess’ y OBSOLETE FREVIO“S EDITIONS. : a

