# 104-10422-10428

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10422-10428..

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

EXTENSION

LTA:

DATE:

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

is..

TO: ¡Oficer designation, room number, and

building)

CI/RA

2C

21:

2.

3.

NO.

DATE.

XAAZ 22002

COMKENTS rumber each comment to stom fron

to whom.

Drav a line ocrois column aller cort

MIGROFILNES

AUS 2.0945

DOC. M1020, 35B.

FID/AN Mu. Crist,

RID/ MIS

WFA

2-

hens abed 201

RiD/PS

add to salet ast

no abstud

35/ RiD/MS

Pls cidal to Juibj.. line

into written on abstra

ini

pencil &

Document Number 84336l

JUL 1976

for FOlA Review on

ANI,

ITA

ALRE

10

Rid/ Mis

32.

13.

Rid/FI.

5.

1024.

- 0035 154:

ABSTRACT

AGAA

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 2

13-00000

XAAZ-22602

MEMORINDUM FOR:

MIo jo Ics Berlia

Gonoral Commsal

Prosident's Commlosion co te

Assassinaiion of Presidont Kerrea

MICROFILNED

AUG 2 0 1985

SUBJECT:

inforaration Contorning Jack RUBY

100. MICRO. SER.

Associates as

Transinitted te

Warren

dimmissiain

Reference Is made to your memorandum of 19 May 1954,

requesting that this Agency furiok any information in its files

relative to Jack RUBY, his activitics and his associates.

2. This memorandum will conflem our corlier statemont to

to Commission to the effect tot an onamination d1 Contral intelli-

geace agency sues has producod no lafosrantion on Jack RURT os

his activities. The Central Mitolligense Agency 255 no Indicaton

test RUSY and Lee Harvey

essociated, of might have been conascted in any manaos.

(201-289248)

3o: The records of this agency nose reviewed for information

about to relatives, friods cadassOCiateS DE RUDY sianad in your

cunary of his background. Our Eccords do not rolloc any luorma-

don pertaining lo mese persone.

Document Number 843•361

for FOlA Review on JUL 1976

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

2 - DDP

ME HAS A

:83

2 - C/CI/R&A°

2.2105

Thomas I. Koramessines

Actlag Deputy Director for Piu.

•д'

SECRET

GS GOPY

201-742842

---

