# 104-10106-10128

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10 106-101285

* 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

OGC SUBJ: NOSEN

SUBJECT (Optional)

FROM:

2B1405

EXTENSION

1934

TO: (Oficen

designation, room. number, and

building

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

NO:

DATE

17F.%

COMMENS A tire actor column ort oct on men)

General Counsel

7D01

2.

2-17-11

3.

7,

:10.

FORMA

3-02

610 USE PEOUS

SECRET

A CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

4-00000

HOPFIDENTTAL

16676-0732

2-17-76

17 February 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Sam Jaffe Phone Call to John Gittinger.

1. On 13 February 1976 retired CIA psychologist John

Gittinger called me at the office to say that he had been

contacted by Sam Jaffe and asked to provide information on

ho ration on.

Nosenko's present whereabouts.

He also asked Gittinger if

he was

aware of Nosenko's charges against Jaffe and of in-

formation on Jaffe in some Soviet documents which CIA had.

2. Jaffe had called Gittinger at'his home on 11

February and again the evening of 12 February.

He declined

to say who had given him Gittinger's phone number and con-

nected Gittinger with Nosenko.

Jaffe

claimed that he had

met Gittinger

in 1960 in connection with the Powers/Abel

exchange with the Soviets.

Gittinger told me that this was

impossible since he had not been involved with Powers in

any way, but that

had been the psychologist who

dealt with the Powers problem.

3.

Jaffe recounted the story of the accusations against

him and their effect on his livelihood, and said that he

felt that he must clear himself by getting to Nosenko

directly.

He told Gittinger about the DCI's memorandum

which cleared Jaffe of KGB agent involvement, but said that

the FBI still questioned Jaffe's bona fides.

He asked

Gittinger if he really thought Nosenko was

still in danger

from the Soviets.

Gittinger told him that this was absolutely

true and Jaffe said that he doubted this.

Gittinger gave Jatte no intormation and, in tact,

Is In no position to help Jaffe either to further refine

Nosenko's information or to help Jaffe find Nosenko. Gittinger

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 012208

- CONFIDENTIAL

XAE - 498

>

---

## Page 3

4-00000

NURFIDENTIAL

-2 -

speculates that the

kind of confused story whichl Jaffe

has about Gittinger's involvement with Nosenko most likely

originated with Jim Angleton.

Signed: Leaned McCoy.

Leonard McCoy

Chief, CI/R&A

CC:

ADDO via C/CI

General Counsel

Inspector Genera

Issistant to the Director, Mr. Thuermer

C/ ISG

SUNFDENHAL

---

