KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

ee a eee ee oe “
104-10172-10316) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F.
ores =

OSB»
Cant, 8

Chin” ul ettoa. f= sty aus \

eens LET AVR «=
D\ :
Thao, for Lafereetion only

faces 17 Ae 189

\ 0 D
1, At the amma nestiog et wich co tisemaans thal ROTTER: ont: aulrecEs i,
a ember of elecolieneoat ft-nt como u, titct ue will Briely ist Suse

-e- 0

2, [Foc A estd thet Orepery Te 164 bed fast called bis ao! acted bts ts

a2 exsing the unierstpent, he tal to costyene thy weetiny with

cy, am 1d ca the jdane the? he use lowving fer venation ‘;reseshly

ty tae Seriet Palon) othe Sth. “oe Ji[THCCT 3] vas fo, pret GT? eae Sour
Rim, tha? 1s, at 190 boo-e, ches Viet DR/})@entlene! tale,

emrerted to hin thet be act ORTE chat te Perera korg Datel

Peylied at 8 ie @ little dit ta delicate ta to put to
Al thongh vo ma) 2: Tat bow long OTP wald be HVA eat be etd g “yew
TH)

bof Trak iets veraticet -

7 SB reraving|
Paletiony vith OULD /{ £348) 13 Petracy 1060), ve bee cecsstona:
Slee esd emment 2 to Bereca UTS, text elenet vithost ames tion
termed then dows as force riete, fect ac be id cn toe ebewe
~~ to Rory. we wuld ay tat EE Se a rot qdte the Soest ibe
test ve hese perbao lat Sankuetars i balteve filthe jedt. fe fb deoatving fo
£ Act ve tave aoticed that be fe a.es able
F Nam the onarica demadas TP ve bare cirea the i
it Mike te cernent thet tr-asetans gj

i
A
E

persca thst bea pangel to bid Gan foo sedige for the acon leagaet carted
of cay men te the 4 \yonr bietory of B.4[Picr 3 Sf brome! seticu Baste tate
thas @ etm le exp’s gree, of te Lob. Spike weg, Oe leateal treater ase hat

ov aml bes boos for sane tins an esvedited Scvist consal. O| ol
beat bet

Rg
g
e

i

i

t

1

3, eaother topis ubich camer wp ves entlo o;eretions. ve saked|t |
0 tha corvell lances ayertucat oa Tehtamkata was. Be rey! '
‘ier eptinistio vercion, that tifers vero met going oo pt ee ‘|

a lest wimule saz aul vere ace having difftoaty gettlas te j sent i

ay out of Ure apatoont, if courve, they cra have the pereca ericted,

waxéae attentions oo they ere trying to vork acomd the 1

tastiest fei tot Jet hes hopes that dorin: Ue eaarsc of tho aumer, ey etl] i
Bevahle t0 this cpartmet pr if not thin ans, enotber ons alesse by. i
{

t

|

{

1

i

hie
E
Bi

6

4. Fe othjevt of nite oyermions rot [Fire mei] elartad ano tort sorctote) .
umely, he expreneed der qp;reciation far tha techuldal bely watch be was cettlag
wri cited « cove Viieh they sou have poing, imvolring an axtle operation agatact

a Pismist citioe, enspected of workin: with the ‘oviets. Pow men and ow cer

ary eastraed to the everation dich Wolves surretllasce fro eazy moreiay UL

te at Richt md uhfas wil} jrobeb!y coon fer fren tep te Aexr meets,

Ol [ysce me) eoctatsed thet Uy bed burred the easect’s carter: ty raming the
Bererhese La trees uss alr dact ood the ptore,bare wires out thrag? ewther
cir Sort to the atjoiniag s,ertoest where a own ces constert!y it

3 tice proats tha dest reaai te.
$. Cheer ites brew bq vere the followiagg? !

ie)
a. fremtey eaved[ Fe oF U as,
of “eists -tworntly t4 cis!



Ee
WW
ae Gees woah

coats int ca en Tete
sy Bet meet af thie levees!
charertert red es beats! aad ov
ferslvwd La aay teomniraes tet
Ue. taterests, ‘a ws sie fe 8 Cagpermat,
- VRAGRTE VELL be hat der murtet
parhaze merely pct sarees,

seas sencarmliy tie tevart ln

pedal arabe.
iweoa, Bow aioe ve éD wat Iw,

Vlsts Sentai'ne a pace ec
A SRC:3T, a! eo Yac.n a+ 2
ay lismst, wioes edtinws be 12 verte, tae, oo
Beiaten, The mine teal beer pecerral to the Ccnmiete Sng Gotcoaburs»
Tho tmoastipetica fu th!a roc fre! red pot oaiy catiy torah the
o\ Gece ba eto tart alas UesesS the Clles of the Fevelimera” reotion,
plas ef toresttration Alas ty te love cerif? ta tonto. Un mote @ point
foor. Lela to pos that, frevoactty (PRC Bal (|
1, Lvcatiralion vio coos met
tae protection file for wna rue ne imnject et Readzusrters, tae
_) Ggpesre te be some dat pow ap ta tas anouruny of the ‘ofermrtian
fermished ky XI, tut before exything Le nent lo the Consulste ts
Gothenburg, ve tstend to. check the astler out. coreMully.

2 bal? seve t ce sa ts en et

nee tis
ere wed for this

Paleed 3. Srenlay

WSK

