# 104-10073-10279

## Page 1

'104-10073-10279

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

•CLASSIFICATION

TO

MALE ICE PERTE

Chief, SoV BlOS DiV: Chief, Far East Division

INFO.

Chief, WOMUSE/ICG

NO INDEXICO PEGUTAID

ONLY QUALITIES DESA

CAN JUDGE INDEXTRE

FROM

chiet of Station (Toky f+3-3

MICROFILM

SUBJECT

RYBAT MHYASHA REDTOP - Beheiren and the Four U.S. Navy Deserters

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

TOKYO

7263

18-3

As noted in reference, forwarded herewith is a copy of the sub-

ject memorandum. Please note that the information in the memorandum

Paragraph B. 4. b) is particularly sensitive and should only be

given properly restricted dissemination.

Mark J. LIDGERWOOL

ATTACHMENT

Memo atd 27 Nov 67

Distribution

i2 - C/SB Div w/1. cy attach

1 - C/FE w/l cy attach

1 - C/WOMUSE/ICG w/1 attach

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLASSTICATION REVIEW

Conducted 0r le: -10-76

EL, 2 WAPDET C: BY 260595

09884

CROSS REFERENCE TO

SOPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL

AND

NUMBER

FJTA - 53 626

CLASSIFICATION

roma madinz ar

DEC

• 6

1967

HOS FILE NUMBER

E TRVDA

UNKNOWN

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ECRET

-2-

3.

Raspectable Intellectual Front:

mental Communist principles

Follonirg funda-

for sags novement work (better

OrganiZeIS Of BLREIREN Lept themscivos in

than the JCP Itsoll follows there tenets) 'the baclground

and iined up a number of prominent Japanese progressive

Intelloctuals and leftist cultured persons to front for

BEFRIREN.

The choice of ODA Haloto, ox-Fulbrigbter and

popular young novelist, to be the chief front man - Chair-

DAS — MAS aR eXtIeNOLY lUCHY StIOÏe fOI BILLIRIN. ODA haS

taken to this grand-standing, front vork 11k0 a duci to

Water.

It has given him a chance to sive anbridled vent to

bis oma latent anti-American

foolings, pulled hia up to the

estent that he has been dubbed "the emperor" by other BEIKIREN

activista, and given him at long last an ideological mission

to pursue.

YOSHIKAVA has perforued magnificently in feeding

ODA's ego needs and in infusing and indoctrlanting ODA so

that bis nords and actions take on sufficiently virulent

anti-American overtones: ODA has served anothor vital:

LUnCtIOn fOT BETEIREN by LeCruiting a sizeable nunber of

fellow intellectuals to join the ranks of BEHSIREN activists.

(Attachuent 1 1s a 11oting of a aumber of thoso Japanose tho

have been identified as active BEHlInEN supporters or sympa-

thizers. )

organizational Developient:

In 1t5 2 1/2 year history,

ENNETHAN DAS DOL APPreCIADLY ChINgOd LES OLgINIZILLONAL SOLIE,

aithough jt has noved its office three times und modified jits

name even oftener.

PELEIREN 13 not a "nass organization", be-

cause 1t has had so sizeablo popular backing to the present

timo.

Its hard core, secretarint organization is run by

JOSHIKArA and his licutenants. Its public image,

Intellectual

iront is led by Oda, and given body by a score of 11ke-minded

¿'Intellectual iriends of ODA and YOSHIKAiA, who form the loose

body of BErEIREN's activist Icadership. Under this BEHCIPEN

leadership superstructure lies a paltry base of only several

hundred BEREIREN "rank-and-file" supporters, nostly young

Japanese students.

Organizationally, BOLLIREN has no formal

nembership system, so its base of supporters is fluid and not

precisely sensurzble... However, the base support for EEHEIREN

has definitely been on the upsming during 1967, and nade such

notable strides during the past summer that JCP Headquarters

officials finally felt constrained to note uith conceru: tbat

BISEIREN was beginning to diali off & growing number of pro

gressive youth who otherrine would have bean abrorbed into

the JCP's own youth novement.

BEFTIREN leaders have tried to :

help this grouth along by settiay up a youth section, calling

"Young BEESIREN."

BEHLIREN'5 Inaginativo actions and

publicity conscious programs have been responsible for jts

recest grouth, and this pertod of grouth seens to de now on

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

RET

the verge of renlly picking up speed and nomentun.

of its role in the case of the four deserting sailors,

As a

result

BELEIREN

has reaped bountiful publicity, has succeeded in touching a

delicate Japanese public nerve of sympathy and pacifism,

open-

1ng a floodgate of support for BEHEIREN fIOn 21l over Japan.

When this case fades from the limelight, 1t' 1s still most

Iskely that a fair percentage of current rave of popular

support for BELLITEN wIll solidit tate permanent mass backing,

giving BErAREN, dor the first time a meanineful base to

support its future activities.

5.

in a number

and participated in inter-

operate with certain front activities in Japan controlled by

the JCP, most notably the Japan Committee to Investigate War

Crimes in Vietnam activitles, which culminated in

Court of last August, but has been soundly and rudely rebuffed

by the JCh. In spite of this, BEHEIREN has churned along at

1ts own pace, with & continuing sertes of anti-Vietnan var

actions, most of then related in some way to the American

pacifist novement.

In this regard, BEFIREN has succeeded in

cornering a virtual monopoly on Japanese contacts with the J.S.

pecifist movements, and has effectually capitalized on this to

promote its own action program.. The case of the four deserting

sailors, while an apparent lucky windfall for BelsIREN, only

points up the fact that BELCIREN, through past organizational

work and promotional activities, was "johnny-on-the-spot",

ready and capable (unique in Japan in this regard) to take

the ball and

run with 1t. BELEIREN Ian all the way in this

case and scored its most notable success since lt was organized.

(Attachment 2 is a listing of BENCIREN's more notable activities

since 1ts founding.

Attachnent 3 1s a partial listing of

American and other foreign persons known to have been in

contact with or cooperated with BEHEIREN.

B. The Case of the Four Sailor Deserters and BEHEIREN.

1. How It Started: The consensus of all avallable overt

medis material,

with

no recorded dissent, indicates that the

four sailors voluntarily left their ship, went AlOl, and ended

up wallowing around Tokyo's hippio-land. Precisely what personal

grievances prompted the four to embark on this mis-raventure is

not yet known.

But, up to this polat, the four could fairly be

categorized as misguided joungsters, gone astray in i foreign

land, and due to get slapped back in line with traditional

Navy justica when they finally decided to stop the fan and go

back to the ship... So far, this made their cases lar frou

unique.:

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

2D015 abip or their

How It Becare an Incident:

But instoad of rcturning to

Ora vOlItIon

or being approhended by. the

sbaro Patrol,

¡the four nade contact with BIRZIREN leaders.

15215, press

reports indicato that this fas just a coincidence,

that thore, was no pre-planning by the four to contact BElSIPEN.

Tooso sto no arailable overt nor covert reports thai indicuie

orbortise.!: But, onco the BEHEIREN people nado contact, they

rocopatrod the potential Immediatoly and noved last for the

•CAttschacht & is a Yoniuri Newspaper clipping, 22 Hov-

caber 1967, that 1s both a representative and comprehensive

socount of this phase of the case. Even 11 this articlo

abould contain sone ninor inaccuracies, the basic line secas

factual and has not boen challenged elacuhere.)

C 30

BENEIREN Takes Over: When

the four nade contact with

BEHEIRER,

It suddenly bocame an entirely different ballgavo.

BEHBIREN had everything needed to capitalize on this:

activist leaders sho ara esperionced enough to recogniza the

windlall that had come their way; an apparatus that could

proride hidint places for the four; long standing liaison

contacts with soviet Embasuy officiala lor uso in plamaine

aItt ston japan; solid contacts vith rollable Auerican

pacifists tith whon the bona fides of the four sailors could

be chocked; noney and organization to capitalizo on the

propaganda potential (such as preparisE a sovle liln for tho

101118] BEHEIREN press conference announcing the descrtion,

prepered soro iskely than not by BEHAIRER stalwart aled

Keinosuke, an independent film producer), and English speaking

sotivists capable of sympathizing, encouraging, soothing, or

agitating the four young sailors, so that there vould be no

*turalag becks..

" The BEEKIREN Apparatus At Ford:

"hile many of the

saa11 pleces of this purale, which would put the whole case 1z

proper detailed chronological order and eliminate speculation

¿on ainor points, are still nissing, enough is kuor son,

through overt and covert sources, that the picture of barEllEN's

adept handliag of this caso shines through clearly.

the follow

dag alonests,

and part of the BaIREl apparatus, make up the

bult of the picture:

a) Hide-out:

When ESHFIREN got hold of the four on

2004t: 26 October,

they had to be hiden out for the approvinate

tro seek period untll their estt fron Japan could be arranged.

this presented BEIBIREN no great logistical problem.

of the BESLIPEN activist leaders have hones foll suited

harboring lugitives..Ior example, BEICIlEN activiet leader

FUKASAKU Hitsurada has s v11la hidden auay in Chigasaks, Naich

was used on the night of l2 september for a roeting of about

20 top BEFEIREN leaders, and which would be highly suitable

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

24

- 5-

for hiding

the four deserters.

Jonging to

Other private dwellings, be

PSETIREN Icaders and loyal supporters, are scattered

throughout both the lianto and Kansas areas.

b) BEIFIREN/SOVIet LIniSON: RIBEIRIN Secrotary Gencrat

YOSIKARd has maintained poriodic contsct with Soviet Eubassy

officials 10x yours.

BERGILEN ChairmaN ODA hss net Soviet

Peace Committed officials in loscow.

"The exact seans of how

this liaison was accompllehed in this case is precisely inows

nade on in leoni,

Ist by brian victoriato chiei tress attacie titolay v

Vasilyevich,

nd second or jostlinva to firet secretar

Serror D. anisinoy, urgently roquesting a privato neoting

Inter that day to discuss "an extrenely important, extremeiy

delieste natter", without doubt the case of the four sallors.

c) BEEEIRIN/U.S.

Pacifist LIaison:

BELEIPEN contacted

Dartmouth University professor Ernest. 2.

JOUREI

who flew to

Japan on & November,

apparently helped BELSIREN lendors check

out the bags fides

of the deserters, and returned to the 1.s.

on 11 Navember.

5.

EScapo to HOScOE:

The four deserters turned up in

MOsCOT on 20 Hovenber.

The press has speculated widely and

unaninously that the lour left Japan on the Soviet passenger

Agals, there is no dissenting

ship Bajial On 11 Hovenber. the only mystery concerning this

opinlos; overt nor covert.

final phase of the Japanese portion of this case concerns the

mechanics of how the four boarded tha Balsal and tho assisted

in this saneruvel.

But with the sa11ine of the balial iron

Tokobana, DEISIREN coupleted Its most highly successiul sad

beautifully executed activity in 1t5 2 112 year history.

Not

Only did BEHLIRIN Gnear the American Govarnment's inage in

Japa, not ouly did BELEIREN gaiN I vast anouat of priceless

publicity that wiil swell the ranie of its supporterg and be

1nvelusalo in future setivitios, but Baulkon doubtlessly

OvER nado a proilt,

Iinanclally, on this lor budget operation

- donations are st1ll pouring into BEELIRIN Headguarters fron

a11 0ver Japan to "help snd protoct U.S. deserters".

SECRET

UPV.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

S

EC

RET

Attacinent No. 1.

Japaneso tho Have Been

Identified as

ActIve BEEBIREN Supporters or Sympathizers

1.)

YOSHIRATA YUIChI (BOHEINEN Secretary General) - fOrMEr JOP

member

ODA Milkoto (BEEPIREN Chairman) - popular noveliet.

3. TAIKO Hen - Arutagava prize winning novelist.

40.

KUBO Keinosuke - I1ln producer and director.

5. TSUrTHI Shunsuke - Doshisha University professor.

6.:

TSURULI Razuko - sister of Shunsuke (thoir father 1n the laio

philosopher, Yusure)

7. FURUYANA Yozo - high school torcher.

8.

HUTO Ichiyo - ex-JCD (tried to travel to U.S. to represent

BEFAIREN at Octobor 21 demonstrations this year, but was

denied a vira to enter the u.s.)

8..

XANADA Atsushi - ex-JCP.

10.: FusuDA Joshiyull - playuriter.

11. TONINACA Ichiro - cartoonist.

12. - FUKASATO Mitsusada - professor:

13. AAzu alyoshi = graphic desiguer.

14 TARADO Kaname - Christian leador.

•15. YOSMIDA BIjU = 11Im director.

16.

Outsaid shun- writer.

17. HASEILOTO Mineo - Buddhist priest.

18.

HOrTA Yoshio - novelist.

19•

GOTO Hiroyuki • scientist.

30.

gUlABARA Takeo - professor at kyoto University.

SECRET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

S:

EGRET

21. SAKAHOTO Yoshikazu - Assistant professor at Tolyo Univereity:

22.

EIDARA ROsurO - profener at Tolyo University.

23.

LIDA Mono - Triter.

24.

ToUrill Yoshiyukl -employed at International House in Totyo.

25.

Tend binako

26.

ANAI Funihlko

27 •

NASU Ma8AD20

28°

MAISUNOTO IChIJU

29• FUKUTONI Setsuo

SO. AUDIEARA FUSIO

31. etc:

ANDO Jiubel, CHIBA lido, IGAFA Taku, FUJII Nittatsu,

HARIXU IChITO, HOSHINO YanusabuTO, ICHlI SaburO, IMEYALA JurO,

ISHIDA Takoshi, KANAI Yoshiko, EASAI Selich1, HATAGIRI Tuzuru,

TATO Shaich1, FAZAMA Michitaro, HATSUURA SOZO, KIDOEONO Masac,

KITALQJI Satoshi, KOBAYASAI Shoichiro, KOMATSU Sakyo,

ROBAYASEI TORS, KUNO OsaRu (Shu), KUNODA MIdetoshi, MARUYAUA

lasao, MIDORIRAVA TOrU, HIZUSAYA Yana, HORITARI Ichiro,

MUCHAKU SELLYO, HURAIATSU MITO, NISHZO NObOrE, NOMURA KoichI,

OGOSHi Teruo, orsuronst Yoshiko, SERIZAVA Tae, SHIRAI Sbinuel,

SEINERA TAKeShI, SHISHIDO IITOShI, SUGIURA Mitsuo, SUGIYANA

Tatsunaru, suzuKI Masahira, TAUCHT Yoshitono, WADA Kagahisa,

YAMADA KunenItsu, YAMADA ToShiO, TALGUCHI ROsaku, YANANLSEI

I11CLS, JASUDA Takesh1, TOSHITO GonzaburO, YOSHIFARA BoichirO,

OXALOTO TArO, MATSULOTO Seícho, EI Bokusuke, IZUlI Talu,

AWAYA NOrikO, KATO YOShITO, SHIROXAMA Saburo, TALABASEI

Taletono, ODAGIRI FideO, ONURA MinOrU, SANO KeRjL, SUZUKI

Michihilo, KUBATA Hanya, SHINCHARA Sele1, SARUYAMA Kunio,

GRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

SUDSITA SotsUrel, LURO KeRjI, RONAKA Yotaro, SARAMORO

Joshikazu, SAITO Masahiko, otc.

CONTENT:

Although not recorded here, many of the above persons

RIC 0X- JCP SOUNNIS.

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET

Attackment No. ?

Activities and Accomplishments

1.

Regular once-per worth demonstrations at a public park in

10ky0,

consisting of anti-acrican speeches and alloyed by street

marches.

An all night IV "teach-in" vith DElEINEN activist Icadore,

along sith special

guest, U. S.

pacifist Carl Oglesby (Chairnas of

the Students for a Denociatic society.

1965),

A fill page advertisement in the Ney Fork Tines (16 Noveaber

folloned by

another full page

ad in the

1ash298601

Fost

3 April 1ssit, appealing to nacricais to stop the wai la vietnan.

4. A'"west in Conference of Ivo Kationa for Peace In Vietnan,"

old in Tokyo In August 1956,

and attended by BOLTIREN activists aud

seven U.S, pasifist lcadere cincluding Dave Dellinger,, and cbsorvers

frou france, Ingland, Canada, the USS&, Pakistad, and Mongolia.

A mast necting la To!yo in October 1966,

quest speakers of

which vere French pacifists, Joan-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir.

Nationwide tours of Japan for lectures and peace rallies for

such anti-Vietunn far pacifists as Professor Howard Zinn and tho late

Ae i, Muste of the United States, Claude Bourdet of France, and Thick

That Hanh of south Vietnau.

A mass meeting in Tokyo in January 1967, sponsored by

BSPEIBEN and featuring U.S. Lols singer and pacifist Joan Baez.

8.: A continuina propran of direct distribution of pasphlets to

u.S. troops stationed in Japan, and those coming to Japan on tarships,

and for rest or hospitulization fron viotnai. "

Participation by tuo BElEIREN activist leaders (Ryoto

University prOfeSSOI KUWABARA IRkeD and International Houso staffeI

TSUAUlI Yoshikyuss, taking advantago of a trip to the U.S. to attend

a non-poLItical Japan-America Congress on Cultural Probicus, In

antI-Vietnam war speech rallies and desosstrations at dartmouth

Untversity In eaxly lay 1967, followed by an unsuccessful attempt

so invite Cassius Clay to visit Japan on boball of BEFEIREN.

20. Continuing offorts to bring to Japan for a nationuide

SECRET

---

## Page 10

14-00000

ECRET

" Participation in the Stockholn July 1967 "World Confererce

Na Vietonu," by sending tuo BIlLIPEN activist leadere

as delegates.

12.: Cooperation with the u.s. Quakers, pacifists,

and Earle

frynolds in sending the rocht "Phoenix" with nedical aid,

firsi to

niphong, then on a second trip in the Fall of 1967,

socking but

M1i1ng to liad landiall to deliver modical aid to cithor North or

mouth Vietilan.

attempted, but failod due to inability

to obtain U.s. visa,

to scad a

BEheIREN activist leador (MUTO Ichiyo) to the U.S.

participate in the 21 October 1967 anti-Vietnam War demoastrations.

14. Currently carrying out a fund raising campaiga to send an

aid ship to North vietnan.

and other activitics, BEfEIREN

counterparts abroad, such as tho French "Conito" Vietnan Mational."

In an effort to generate publio support for this aid ship tuna

BENCIREN succeoded in issuing a public appoar,

under the encorsing signatures of faijo Governor HINOsE Byolichi and

Yokohana Kayor ASUKATA Ichio, as woll as the usual intcllectuals

supporting BElFIREN.

In October 1987, ECHIREN solicited approval to hold anti-

"as denonstrations in front of the U.S. Embassy in Toryo,

expecting ta be denied and then intending to make this denial & court

test case: Instoad, BEESIREN was given this permission, and conducied

two orderly and vell-publicized denonstrations in front of the nerican

guruering a larger pablic turn out of participants than 12

16. Assisted and abetted the defection to the USSR of four

Americas sallors fron the U.S. davy carrier Intrepid.

Following this

SUCCESS, BELGIRIN's most effective activity to date, BElFIREN leaders

aro prganizing a pernanent "underground railway" of

Japaneso intell-

ectuals tho will volunteer their houds as possible "gay stops" for

hiding Luture U.S. military deserters that BEllIleN son hopes to

IndUCE. E

Comment Cohen Sta5 1960

see TObyo intelligence reporting.

32046

October 1956

-14650

10 May 1967

-12851

5 July 1987

-13081

& September 1967

FJE-13154,

27 Septenber 1967

22

22 November 1967

osSg6790, 11 July 130%

$

E C

R

E T

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

ATTACHHENT 3

partial listing of American and Other foreign

Persons Known to Have Been In Contnct with or

Cooperatod with BEELIREN

Anericans.

staughton Lynd (ez-Yale professor)

2.

Norman Nailer (novelist)

3. Dave Dellinger (Editor of Liberation)

4o Howard Zina (Boston U. professor)

5.

Donald Keyes (National Committeo for a Sane

Fuclear Policy)

G. David Licheynolds (Chairnat, War Resisters'

League)

7.: A. J. Huste (now deceased)

8. KaTI MaYSI

Tailldan Davidson

10. Bradford Lyttle

11. Charlotte Thurber

12. 4158) Quantin Bassett (Students for a Democratic

Society)

13. Hurray'LOVia (Boston U. profeSsOr)

14. Robert Ockene (Veterans and Reservists to End

the Var in Liatnar)

15. Carl Oglesby (Chairan, Students for a Donocratic

Society)

16. Barbara Dening (Aasociate editor of lIberation)

17• Joan Baez (loll singer)

SECRET

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SEGRET

18. Ira Morris (Paris espatriato)

19.

Otto Kaisan (phonetic, lew York City peace activist)

20.

Barbura and farle Reynolds (divorced bat separately

ective long-time residonts

10 JapIa)

21. MIllan &. Christensen (an Anerica pacifist drifter,

HO GAVE BEEDIREN Its first

experionce in the summer of

1866 in exploiting for pro

paganda in Japan, and then in

arranging the onward journoy

of an AnGrican tho tanted to

defect to the USSE)

22. Brian Victaxia (head-shaved pacifist and "converted"

Buddhist priest, knowa to be

regular contact tith the soviet

Ambassy In Tokyo)

29 .

ur. Tillowby (inu, phonetic, "chiet of the quaker

Heace Action novement in the u.s!)

244

25.

An unscentified anerican of Japanese descent, iron

Hawall, who is currently a student at Haseda University

osaku Xanaguchi (reportedly borr in U.s., present

citizenship status unclear) (formorly

was a professor at honoyars University

{n Osabe, but has been teachin at the

Naiversity of CalLionia in Berkeldy

•ÍOT SONG tINE)

E. Other Foreigners.

1. Elkhail Botov, USSR (Soviet Peaco Committeo)

2. Claude Bourdet, Frauce (Trench Committee to Support

the Vietnamese paonle)

ö

Pegry Dull, Great Britain (Campaion for Nuclear Dis-

armanent)

James Endicott, Canada (VoxId Peace Counc1])

Faiz Abred Istz, Palistan

5.

G.!

SECRET

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET

T.

Irs. Erdenebat Ojon, Mongolia

Konstantin Shugnov, USSR

9.

Franc1s larcel Kahn, France (Cation yetnam

I0.

Josn-Paul Sartre and Sinone de Beauvolt, Trance

11.

Thich that Hanh, South Vietnan

OUTINE:

This is not,

by any ncaus,

a complete listing,

ДОГ

It necessarily list BELHIRiN's nost important

activist contacts abroad.

But this 11st 15

presentative in showing the breadth of BaHLIRes

liaison abroad, particularly with the americar

"new jeft".

SECRET

---

## Page 14

14-00000

ATTACHMENT. 1

I THE YOMIURI

22 20 64

Wednesc

4 US Deserters Possiby

Left Japan Aboard Baikol

The four deserters. from the US aircraft carrier

Soviet port of Nakhodka.

have left. Japan irregularly

by the Sovict -liner. Baikal which left' Yokohama on November li for the Far Eas

Sources in the Metropolltan/test against-the Victnam

Pray. that

Police Department Bald Tues at a press-conference •held Nọ

the

four •Americans

vember 13 In 'Tokyo.:

warn ters,

Not Worrier

When he first met the deser

could have boarded the ship by

they

were

special gangway for Soviet

Government officials.

serters

Yoshikawa' sald that the de

penniless

but

practicall

unconcerned, Naits

appeared quitt

irst

He

said.

Japanese watchmen werd on

wanted

peacefully In Japan' and

to live

said : the

shed parently .. enfoye

deserters

guard at another gangway;

for

the Beheiren to and them'

hipple:

life.

ordinary. passengers when ?221

which

they,

could

and

Iving on cheap Japanese. foo

listed.

drink

passengers. including

their

English

proficiency.

4 (noodles)

such

udon

I YUICHL XOSHIKAWA,

eight: Americans,

boarded

The Beheiren told them that

He said

and shochu.

liner before it departed Yoko

the four

Americans

retary-general of „wile "Japan

wanted

•to' live

the they, could not: llve: in Japan fif possible in Tokyo.

Peace-For-Vietnam

hama at 11.50 am, November 11.

without being :"found. by

Japan,

and

The watchmen i told

Stee (Behelren), tell commit.

a pfess. son who

that they did not see any

police authoritles

and his friend. Yamao

per-

was not 'on' the pas

Japariese police of US military decided to ask the help of the

senger: list

board

ship

conference Tuesday that the through the ordinary gangway.

shikawa saldooner or later:

Yo. | Beheiren

•and

four

delivered

four deserters of the jus war

men

to'i the

ishlp Intrepid hoped

was learned that 17. 0f-

Lived Liko Hippies around November 26.

the

-to stay.

Min Japan: but the Beheiren

cials of the Soviet Embassy and

painter

could not help them to do so.

trade mission in Tokyo and

Sh on that The an unt no

Behelren

Nalto

said he believed tnat

Shimbun

he and.. his hot

the four

Americans

scores of visitors boarded the

frlend, Sansel Yamao, a hipple

• sere.

poet

communists and that they

Baikal

gangivay.:

through

the special

' ..

Behelren, acted me go betweent

had no interest in communist

ideology

The police sources said that

Beheiren:

the deserters

He

said the four must have

it was "quite possible" that the

Soviet anthorities in Tokyo ar-

elto. gald he met two of after

thel deuder to a to sovet union

country

neutra)

ranged 'the deserters' exit."

deserters

-Airman could not. live in: Japan

they learned that-thcy.

• Beheiren Pledge' ple.

Ministry

spokesman for, the Justice

Yuich! Yoshikawa, secretary.

Shinjuku there

said "Tuesday

nothing

legally

General of the Japan Peace-For

around October 20.

wrong' in

Viet a Coss come enchere.

He

said

both.

& press. conference

Americans

Americans

wore leather jackets and other,

not

day that the committee could

informal clothing which they Japan-US

disclose how the four

said they, borrowed from

Japanese

their rantees

Security Treaty gua-

Americans left because it had

promised. not to do so.

ing around the Shinjuku area.

ed

He neither affirmed for dent

Bailey and ' Lindner

the

report that the

two Airman

Amer

Icans left Japan by the Balkal

nically still

on November,11.

It was the. Beheiren "which

20_went.

announced. for

Naito., said.

if their

the: first

time

the desertion of the four crew

Naito sald he let Bailey and

indner stay overnight at his

was before:

Me US authorities

Tayamiyacho;

ambers of the Intrepld, to pro- ma-ku, from October: 24 to 26

made. an official request to the

Japanese

police to

Ithem, he added,

search

He• aiso

said

there. were no

Japanese laws allowing charges

be.

preferred against

the

iBeheiren officials and other Ja-

panese people who "protected'

ithe .

Americans in •Japan

and

heiped their departure to the

Soviet Union.

---

## Page 15

14-00000

32

SANKEI

(Full)

November 21, 1967

Prof: YOUNG Says Four American Deserter, Seamen Not in Japan Any More

T Went to Tokyo and Tried to Dissuade Them;

roProbably Escaped From Japan on. the 12th or the 13th

ti::

?. 68 :

" "" (New York, November 20, Correspondent Tadashi ONODERA).

Professor

= ErnestiP: YOUNG of Dartmouth College in the U.S:, consented to an interview

/with this reporter on the question of the four American seamen who deserted

i from the U.S: aircraft carrier Intrepid.

At the interview held on the 19th,

* Professor YOUNG clarified that the Peace for Vietnam Association (Beheiren,

with Makoto ODA acting as its representative) contacted an anti-war organiza-

tion in the U.S., and at this, Professor YOUNG hurriedly visited Tokyo, and

meeting the four

seamen in a room in an apartment house in Tokyo on the 9th

s'and loth; tried to persuade then to return. In regard to the present where-

[rabouts of these four seamen, he made the noteworthy. statement that "those

four were still in Japan, up until the night of the lith, when I left Japan,

but they are probably no longer in Japan now six congecarte nee collares

c-Families Perplexed. '

code eps no bangton pugle cane or f0yoda De

•THan When CherrTeR 12406 G011

367°

the si the questions and answers exchanged with Professor YOUNG are as follows:

Ee firm Why did you go to Japan? ocre

Professor:

LL

Beheiren contacted David DERRINGER, a pacifist activist

in the U.S.; asking him to "send someone to Japan to hear the stories of

t" the four seamen and announce them in the U.S." I have been in Japan twice,

and I also once served as special assistant to Ambassador REISCHAUER.

During that' time, I became friends with Beheiren representative ODA' and

Trother intellectuals in Japan. It was for these reasons that I was given

Or anti-Vietnam war movement so far.. or wr

SETTE

the

7: ÷

- When did you arrive la Japan, and where did you meet the four

. seamen?

395.04

IG Professor::: I arrived. in Haneda on November. 8, and met the four seamen

Iron the 9th and the loth.: The place of interview was in an apartment house

ps in Tokyo, but I cannot say at this time where that apartment house was and

twho owned it. However, on both days, I talked fully with these four seamer,

ze for more than three hours on each occasion (according to an investigation

nade by the public security authorities, Professor YOUNG arrived in Japan

toward the evening of the 8th, and stayed at Hotel Tanakanwa In Shiba,

sMinato-ku, until the moring of the lith).

075: 2227

toget:

::"

Turo - What were the motives for these four seanen's desertion?

Professor; The desertion was completely the decision of these four

persons. It seems that the four seamen decided not to return to the ship,

when the Intrepid entered Yokosuka Port on October. 17', and they were per-

au mitted to go ashore for rest for

one week. My impression.on meeting these

the purpose of

ct.self-advertisement.or that they were giving false reasons.

Ij: four seamen was that they were definitely not deserting fo"I am convinced

that they deserted really. out of doubt about the Vietnam war.

What were the movements of the four, after they deserted?

Professor;: On the night of the 23rd, two days before the Intrepid

was due

to sail, the four went to shinjuku, and told the people whom they

net at ä bar they happened to visit, that "we are fed up with wai."

The

Japanese who heard them sympathized with them, and.at one time, the four

lived with sone hippies (according 'to this paper's investigations; they

include Mr. K., a student of Tokyo University's Liberal Arts Department,

and vanguard artist A., who gather at Fugetsudo in Shinjuku.) Finally,

---

## Page 16

14-00000

they were taken to Beheiren by a student who spoke English (according to

this paper's investigation, this was Mr. S" cannot say where they were

a Waseda University student).

After that, they were hidden by Beheiren.

- Were the four firmly determined to desert? read

Professor:: My purpose in visiting Japan was to dissuade the: four.

I explained to. them

what the results of their desertion would be.

I even

c told them that they would never again be permitted to stand on American soil;

win their fatherland. At the time I met them, it was still at a stage where

aris they would only receive light punishment, if they reported back immediately,

In saying that they "had missed their ship."

However, their determination was

Wfirm, and my persuasion had no effects.

Jagged

i: Bicast:

- The four seamen's desertion was announced in the form of a press;

interview given by Beheiren, Here there no facts of their having been

forced to desert, during that period? purs si

Professor; I ascertained that point, too. However, they firnly denied

many fact of their having. been forced, saying that they had voluntarily

Falconsulted Beheiren as to whether they should publicly announce the Press

intention to desert, and if so, in what form this should be made.

- Where are the four sealen. now, and where are they planning to go?

Professor: I am certain that the four of them were still in Japan,

up until the lith, the day I left for home.. However, they already knew

fully well that it was not possible for them to obtain asylum in Japan.

They even said that "we will probably have to go to sone third nation,

which is neutral." (The public security authorities judge that the four

seamen left Japan immediately after Mr. YOUNG's persuasion, and consider that

toi. they probadly were smuggled out of japan after the loth, and before the

bec evening of the 13th, when

Beheiren announced their desertion at a press

conference, However, Mr. YOUNG says that the four seamen were in Japan up

Tos until the sight of the llth. Therefore, the possibility is strong that they

Sawere smuggled out of Japan by ship, between the night of the lith and the

Don evening. of the 13th.)..:

-The films showing the four beanen were shown publicly in the u.s.,

-bra:too.: What, were the reactions in the U.s.?:

Pasti

professor: When the films were publicly shown, theze was big: excitement,

with rows and rows of television and press cameramen. I thought I wowld be

exposed to persistent questioning by the FBI and the CIA, after I returned

tyr home, but so far, I have only baen, questioned buce by the Navy's Intelligence

Section, about the circumstances._ It, seems that American authorities con-

wur cerned do not want to make too big a fuss over the matter.

14 ME

:?.

ir, i.i

What do the parents think of this action taken by their sons?

ProfesSOr:

A certain televicion station asked the mother of one of

the four men about her son's life... This nother was completely perplexed,

saying: "My son is

a most average American youth. His school records

were quite, ordinary, and he liked sports; just like any other student.

I cannot understand why he aoted in such a way l

V20 ALTe MOnGOUGT ISCEC D° 3507984 403210% 709 64748

KH

429

:20 -37

LD 0D: 2250920/

NO YES POSS

vegas a Canno

75.08. T5

3arK7371

TOD

2007P03

HICH 75: 762J

313a -

---

