‘104-40171-10045] "| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

~

ren cere: ~ Dergegee ae ene
Oi

CENTRAL, INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Ts oararias erousins tatormaticn SHerueg Us Naurns: Defense Of tbe Usted @uasee within tbe mmanicg of the Brrlonage Lave Tue
WACO. bore Ta ood TH the Inammiamin oF revwelie of wht 10 07 Alon Wo an uanutbsrieed perme Ww proitted Oy we,

RET agent?
eee fae) OMTROL ie ue
ao UNTRY «Cuba. #EPORT NO. CS ~3/505 853,
suMtct = Status of the Anti-Castro Movenent DATE DISTR «29 March 1962
/ In Cuba, December 1962 te
NO. PAGES 6 :

ie REFERENCES ROW-2107

OATE OF
INFO. 20 Decesber 1962

MACE& Argentina, Buenos Aires (18 Jariary 1%2)”
DATE aca, ELD REPORT NO.

THI UNEVALUATEO IN/OUMATION _YOUECE G#ADI~NGS ABT OU/INITIVE APPRATLAL OF CONTENT 19 TINTATNE.

SOURCES | fae aaecna none

Appraisal of Contents 3. Ny i

1. Anti-Castro sotivities in Cuba include those of the nation-wide organised
movemonts and those of local fronta where independent guerrillas are grouped
in small units. The penetration of the Cuban armed forces is insignificant.

2. The national movements which have been active in Cuba are: the Movintento de
Recuperacion Revolucicnaria (Mz), Movimiento Damocrata Cristiano
Moviatento Revolucionario 30 do Noviasbre, Movimiento Revoluctonario dai
Pueblo. (VRP) Rescate Revolucionario, and Directario Revolucionario
Estutiantil (DRR). Other groups with Limited organizations are the Unidad
RevoTuélonaria 48d the JRA. (deociacian. de Atigoa “de Aureliano Sanches,
we -.  arango). The strength of the groups by provinco, is 2a follows:

&. Southern Oriente Province (Sartiago de Ciba)

(1) (MRR. The MRR, af Nino Dias, has menbers fron the ranks of the
26 of July Movement and, especially, fron the former regular Arsy.
Its cAvillen organization 1s poor, alncet non-existent... The nen
renain inactive, waiting for ¢ @ serious military aotion of a local
or national character. RETURN TO CIA

(2) OC. ‘The MOC has an adequate civilian organisations froa the Background Use
founiing of ‘the sovenent Santiago dé Cuba bas been ons af its Do Not Reproducs
strongholds. . The nilitery organization 19 extrenely por. Many
of ite leaders have gone into exile or are trying to. do 9
They remain totally inactive in hope of an invasion whiol enn resolve
the situation, and only concern thenselves about a future political
life, at the tine when the present government falls. .

G) 30 de Koviembre. There are fev sexbers of the 30 de Noviembre in
Santiago de Cuba, and they lack contact with their national leaders,
‘They have practically no resources.

S£C-R2-T
ROFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

svar [XK [oer Xr [ae a Xo TX
EER DCLANT CINCARIB

LrcTatecraellnrrcne ea arene ME

68-3 /505 5853

coraroelaaeagg | aaa



Z Hi me

“corm

: : €5=3/505 853

th] Octaber 1761 the MP had a good civilian and military organizations
ately after the arrest. of Rvinol Gonzalez, the naticoal co-criinator, the
Jocal co—iinator an} alzcet al the me-bers in the provinoo sought asylune
The new co-criinatsr 1a trying to reorganize tla movement. There are still
enough «ren of action, conirg fraa the 26 of ily Htvanont, but they have to

Fe-estadlish contacts

(S) Rescate: Keccate has no mesbers in this area.

(6) DBS. Tho DRE was completely broken ty the wmsuccossul uprising of Alberto Muller
end by the arrest in October of Bg) Fiere®, provincial co~urdinater, The DEB
still kas great prestige in the area, and there are many vho wuld follow its

direction.
b. Karthern Oriente Province
(2) GR. the MRR 4s practically non-existent in northern Oriente Province, -
with the exception af a fev personal contacts of Bino Dias.

. (2) MOC. Tho OC 1s poorly orgenized and inactive.

(3) 30 de Noviembre. It has # mediocre organization, fow members, and is
inactive.

Qs) MRP. Even before the debacle cf Cotobr the MEP had a very poor
organization in this area. Fito domes ("Ricardo"), the co-ordinator,

was arrested in tho roundup at that tine, but escaped eri took asylum
in tho Ecuadorean Embassy, fis suwcesso> ard the military ant eivilien

personnel arc relatively capable. :
(5S) Roscate. It does not exist in this area.

(6) DME. It does not exist in this area.
—_

C. Camaguey Province.

—————--- : ;

(1) PRR. At the beginning of April 1961 Caballero (fra), the co~miinator,
Whoso nickname 1s "Z1 Viejo", was arrested ani contermed’ to 30 years
on the Isle of Pines. Arango (fm), who was n&wed co-ordinates in
duguit, has been forced to seek asylim in Habana. The movemont has

been siestroyeds

= (2) WC. The MOC has ar excellent co-crdinator, Blanco (fra), who: is
Tempoasiblo, discreet, with good ccanections. The WC has a vory good
civilian organization and at present 1a concerned sbout ite military
orgarization, for vidch they already have soxe persornel.. They, work
effectively and are trying to carry out seme nilitary untions. peti

(3) 30 de Norlesbre. ‘The civilian organization is relatively gool. It has
@ small but effective military furce. - :

(4) MRP. * Caragusy is practically the only province in which the MAP wis not
affected by the arrests of October. It has a good civilian organisation
. and military forces of impartance, which are unier the cacsnd of former

officers of the Rebel Arzy. Arquimides Ceballero (¥etedan"), ita
former co-ordinator, took asylum in the Brazilian Esbassy3 *Ricanio",
his replacement, is very young (21 years old) but is considered wory geod.

(5) Rescate. It has @ poor organizetion. There are gnough nen, but they
are inactive. : = is ‘

(6) Deze Few nonburs of the DEE remain, and "Tronco® ani Rafe? Angol Quevedo,
its directors, are known by G-2. The novenent bas been dastroyed.s

SSCRET
wOPORN/COWTINUED CONTROL :
