# 104-10172-10305

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10172-10305

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

arles or sentlin, 16-62

Grilos as 31041005 14-1]

0207-2997

251-150156 (0.10,07058)

25 JUN 1959

спрок, 15

(011 - 05180T1y To. DODS aNd X. MUriSY

4188:9020 06011:7

[24]

Worsenior des ll A'still

(237-3745

1. OrleOTy TO. 01118 cera 80 Mlaland as a Tlco Consal in 2955.

In lato Doverber

1956 ho sas promotad to second Saaratary and Chles of the Conduler Sootlan, Sorlot

DatEsT. Trot information fiver ly sororal pouras, ve runa compiled the fallordre

desaription a DOLTS and some background deta.

2. Bo Mas tOTA ADot ITS ln the Anirons el elther Quasa or saurkor. le

proadiy asserted that he vas a Derainlen. Daring Horld Var II ho nas a coloral 1a

elaload to ba a child perabalaçtos.

Mack, hls comersation lipllos lhat ha vas mall-oduoated and morlodgarbla on

doloretto attalra, Marades and carment events which turairo the USSA.

Cantrarlo,

kis knoxledgo al life outalio iss USSR vas magar. la vas parried to lina l'odaronse.

Delber sorrontally ba explaisad that ha and bla dilo vould lite to baro ahildren bert

ou far here not boan so blessad. Ala main intarcel in sports ses soling. Do tas mary

Joral, concentel and mened to enjoy plaine host. It has bow very dorious that ha

aimys plata up the shock than la disas with lesterdare a ena 1f do 18 not the host.

• J. To ans souros OOLUB atstad he had servod 1n Vlonna, Marant, Bucopert,

suaderest and Sophla, unlla to anothor ha statod that Holtinda van his firat farolga

assessent.

It 1a possiblo that A'DS sant Paledril vas hla "firot foro1gn endlea

sart outaldo tha Sorlot Blas (11 Da had corvod In Yienoa during the ocoupation), or

a could hava boon dallberately attampting to confuso. Lo has converasd daly 1n

Resslan and Finalo8 horotos, Da riatol that ho had atranded the Languaço Institato.

No sameet that be ales tong nass fagllet but any tool reidolent to astvoros 1n

GO12B 'a prodocaser ves a knom RIS afficer, probebly MB. to ousport that

Docts 1a son the top IDB artices to lelanta, Althouh no hara so conorato enidesce

for this susplaton, no fool that OlLAB'o Interast in Horteroere panarally and 10

pertiouler)y in hla opposite nambers 1a Vestora lastalletions la Holaint 18 soro ther

would Do called for by the pooltion.

5. DS 2074, shan shoes a batespaper photo af DOUS, Piated that OOCUB'3 soos nas

soaller, When DS 2074 8s tald OUT's nana, source replled thas tharo ves a 11er-

cocoa! oolonal with thle nose la tha MB. Sauros could sos reseaber the direstorate

sars shoute possibly 18 alett dato boon a tochalcal mollon. Sutros know that Li. Cal.

Dola vas a "falrly llet bars. "

Ds 8074 oould not recall shortser be lied enor seen

Il. Cal, GOLIB to knon lla to sa did sot bror 11 lDe DOLS In eDe sonaphoro mas

Identsoal Mith tha It. Col, DOLiN or tsa MIB.

E. No rould approadato soy fartser intoration on DOWS shlas alsht substantlato

lo tdent us pardilmb the l. Kelirt. Yo hate voltton 1

ADOLERAS lO CheDO ANTES. TOR YOUR ITORMITIN ELYI ThA dOCTIplIOn Of the M. MUDENY,

easelamad to Firlesd, soro snarly file lhat al Mltaly Peradiantos MUDISY mo ras

Corariy corlesad as a PlIS oorraspontant to London tras 1950 lo 195) and as Cultural

Ho rould

esprodialo ran iting Infordestin on tha X. MUEST, non In dolalate, erlad niche tolp

0 tO 18111.

88 Are 1759

PATI RO CAMO

infland

TC16-

1-s11.01413.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

.=

: 'Carada

!?.

TO

Cécurio

2017, 577

ADOL

10.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

DATE

hold 6

2%

COUNCHTS

FIl Mr.p

24/0

Ell'

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Peproduce

RI/ AN

NI

RECORD

COPY

17.

Gobus, Gilookly ye

OFFICERS

OffICE

Hoskil

03

EXCLORUAR

dire axeuerato

4101

81L8

INDEX

AUTHe

MAMK

OURICIA

TITLE

We'f/Canars

PALBABINO DRONTA

Folders terine, 716

DATE

E7122

2IBR

---

## Page 3

ni

DISPATCH

Clot a station, i i(4-1-

Chias, k3

22(027-3997

201 - 150258 (0.10. 801073)

25 JUN 1959

124

DO QUAiNIO NO CASA ONLI

22(000) 3715

I. Ortiory To, O01U8 cara to Flaland as a Vico Consul In 1955. In leto Decorde

2958 ho ras promotod to Sorond Soarotary and Chlef af tse Consuler Sootion, Sorlet

Escass. Iron Intoration plum lo sareral dourdos, to tata complled the fallorday

dasaription at DOLUB and done background deta.

?. He mas born ebout 1925 in the envirens el elthor Quasa or tharicon..

readly assortod that he van a Woralrlen, Daring World Ver IT ho waa a colonel 1

sonat dry, san sction in leninpred and Moscow and zag toundod aix tlnes.

elelsad to be a child probalaçint. Atha ga be looked llba a product at parsent

srark, his converation Implied lsat ho sas vell-aducatod end moledgeabla on

diploanilo attalro, Merles and perrant enonts stilch invalvo the USSi. Contrarity,

11s kronlodgo of I1f0 outalio the USSR nas manguir. la vas asrried to Mina Fodarovas.

Ratber sorrofully ha explained that hs and his ulfe would like to have ahildren but

so far hate not been so blessed. Ils main intarest in sports ras elling. He nas very

jorlal, consenial and possed to enjoy playing host. It las boon very ebvious that ha

almays plota up the shock hen la dloos with lesterary - over 11 ho 18 not the host.

3. To ons sourse OOIB atsted ha had serrod in Vlenna, Varant, Budapest,

Bradarest and Sophla, inlle to another ha statod that Helsintd was his firet foreign

It 1s posedbla that A '19 sast Reloriot ma hla "first foreign asolga

mas" outaldo the Sortot Bloo (18 Do had sornod in Vienna during the ocoupation), or

la could have boon dallberately attempting to confusa, La has conversed otely in

Persdan and Firish, horotor, he sinted that he had attorded the lanquago Instituto,

is suspest that he elas knows soes bagliah but IT fuel reluolant to contores 1n

L. GOuB'a prodocassor was a losona RIS afflcas, probably MUB. to auspect that

COLDe 18 son the top LOB articer in Helania, Although no bato no canoreto evidasco

for Erla susplelon, no feal that dOLD's intorest in Ventariara panerally aad to

partieulerty in hla opposito musbara in Nestera Installations In Holsinid 18 soro then

would do called for by hlo pooltion.

5. DS 2074, shen shore a naispaper photo of OOLOD, seated that COLUB' i 1800 vas

feadler, When DS 2074 was tald O'Ild's ness, sourca ropllad that there vas a 1101-

tarat colonel with the nise in tho ICB. Sourca could not reader the direolorato

bars thorucht possibly. It alpit havo boon a technical sostloa..

source. koon that It. Cal.

Golia sna a "fairly high boss." DS 2074 oould not rocall ihother de lied enor one

It. Cal. COLUB to knon hin no ha did not knon 1I lDa COLIB 1a tha soMEphoro seo

scariloal with tino Ito Co1, 00508 of the MIB.

Ea sta sould approclato sy farther lafarastion on OCUs unles algit substantiate

es maplesons al lls totallirenda dotivilion.

box adelemed to Finland, soro Dearly fits that ar Iltaly Cerealmanlal MAiSY Mo ves

Sartarly doglepod as a lASS sorrespondent to London fros 1950 to 1953 and as Cultural

London ent forn ho vas sapoetad of uniarlor la Intallleases doliritlos.

preslAla Toolting Inforeallun on the N. KUDSY, ron in Boldleth, thlah alett balp

88 Jess 1759

WiCe a J0n0s

7"09:1756

PATE 8. CAMSOD

10/BR

---

