# 104-10106-10392

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10106-10392

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1158

PREVIOUS

"EDITIONS

11 MEG.

CALL SECRETAGAT DISSEMINATION

COMPLETED BY

•ASLE SECREAMAI

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COrtE

SECRET

GROUPS

(When Filled l1n)

COUCHA DI

2

5

6

REPGODUCTION OF TMIS COPY PROMIDITED

8

O YES

:!:.

ACTION COPY

CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.

• AT:

30

C/EURS

€ 5131

X-REF TO CS FILE NO.

FER

• FILE: RIO

RETURN TO

BRANCH

c/RI/50/C

S/F2 OP ADOP CSDO

ADIED!

(ICTION),

$128.

SECRET

181745Z MAY 70 CITE(LONDON) 1613 (LAUTERBACH ACTING)

20-1

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEE

DIRECTOR

C

RYBAT KEYWAY

13H.. 005506

1. (SIOTH) (EN UPROOT) EXPECTS BE ASKED BY HMG TO COMMENT

18

ON ACCURACY LONDON TELEGRAPH ARTICLE 16 MAY TO EFFECT THAT

MR. HERBERT ITKIN, AMERICAN LABOR LAWYER, WAS ON JKLANCE

SECRET MISSION IN BRITAIN IN 1965. ARTICLE SAYS JILANCE

OCC O1IO194IY

HAS FORMALLY ACKNOWLEDGED IN PAPER SUBMITTED TO NEW YORK

SUPREME COURT THAT ITKIN WORKED AS AN AGENT IN BRITAIN AND

THAT THIS ONLY SECOND TIME JKLANCE HAS PUBLICLY ACKNOWLEDGED

THE ASSIGNMENT OF AN UNDERCOVER AGENI NOT OFFICIALLY ON

UKLANCE PATROLL (POWERS WAS FIRST)•

i:

2. ACCORDING LOCAL LNERGO, IT ACTUALLY HANDLED

ITKIN IN LONDON AS INFORMANT ON CRIMINAL MATTERS IN 1965.

LAGUAR) AHARE OF THIS. HOUEVER, LOCAL LNERGO AS CONFUSED

AS WE ARE AS TO ITKIN'S JKLANCE CONNECTION AT THAT TIME.

3. REQUEST HOS ADVISE WHAT WE MAY TELL (SMOTH.)

4. NO STATION RECORD ITKIN.

5. FILE DEFER.

GP- 1

SECRET

---

