# 104-10414-10145

## Page 1

1704-10414-10145

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

145

1.:

from

4,6

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO:

Mr. Bush

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

DATE (_2 SEP 1975

Executive Ravisits

REMARKS:

71/26

The attached suggested draft to

Mr. De Mohrerschildt was written without

knowledge,gf the flavor of your personal

relationship with him.

The tone may not

be approprate, but the message boils

down to the fact that neither CIA nor

the FBI appear to have been interested

in ME De Mahrenschildt for a number of

years.

This draft was coordinated with OGC

on 22 Sep.

John Waller

45 citzeios - den

FROM:

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

EXTENSION

• FORM

irEs 55•241

EPLACES FORM 36

HICH MAY BE USE

---

## Page 2

13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED.

INTERNAL

ONLY

COME "ENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD

• SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Mr.

George de Mohrenschildt

FROM:

John H. Waller

Inspector General

2 E 24 Hqs. Bldg.

EXTENSION

6565

R-1252

TO:

(Officer designation, room numbor, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

SECRET

INSPECTOR GENERAL

76-3000

DCI

ROOM:

7 E 12

NO.

DATE

COMMENTS (Number each

comment to show from whom

to whom.

Drow a line across column after such comment.)

This is the

response to the

letter from de Mohrenschildt

that you gave me a féw days ago.

4.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE PRONG

PREVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL ,

INTERNAL

USE OHLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Esprino Deguis

76 - 5157/I

SECRET

22 SEP 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM.

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Director of Central Intelligence

John H. Waller

inspector General

Mr. George de Mohrenschildt

Mr. de Muhrenschildt's letter to you,

dated 5 September 1976

Action Required:

This memorandum is for your information.

We have also

attached at A a suggested draft reply to Mr. de Mohrenschildt's letter:

Action Taken:

Z: We have reviewed boo and iG files on Mr. de Mohrenschildt.

addition, at our request, the CI Staff has run Agency traces on him and

has been in touch with the FBI as well.

Findings:

There. is voluminous material on Mr. de. Mohrenschildt in CIA

most of it dating from the post-Kennedy assassination period

files testified before the Warren Commission on his acquaintance

with Mr. and firs. Lee Harvey Oswald.

(A copy of the de Mohrenschildis'

testimony is attached at B.)

The bulk of the material in our files consists of FBI reports,

the most recent of which is dated 1967.

The FBI has informed CIA that

it has no traces on Mr. de Mohrenschildt beyond that date; our files

contain all of its previous material on him.

SECRET

E2, IMPDET

CL BY 055636

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

5. Mr. Helms' 3 June 1964 memorandum for the liarren Commission on

the de Mohrenschildts is attached at C.

It describes the Agency's

interest in obtaining reports from Mr. de liohrenschildt in 1957 as a

result of his sojourn in Yugoslavia that year.

Contaci Division (now

Domestic Coliection Division - DCD) had its resicient agent in Dallas,

fir. J. Walton Moore, contact Mr. de Mohrenschiidt at that time. The

history of Mr. Moore's relationship with Mr. de Mohrenschildt. from 1957

to 1961 is also attached at C.

As a routine matter, Mr. Moore requested

traces on Mir. de Mohrenschildt.

The trace results (attached at D) con-

tained sufficient derogatory information to preclude further extensive

contact with the de Monrenschildts.

(An OS summary on Mir. de Mohrenschildt

prepared in response to the current request is also attached at D.)

Our files show that a mail cover was placed on letters adáressed

to Mr. de Mohrenschildt c/o the U.S. Embassy in Haiti from about 1964 to

• (This was probably not uncovered at the time of the external in-

vestigations.) This included opening and photographing the contents of

some letters by the CIA Station there.

The results of this operation

were shared with the FBI.

7.

Mr. de Mohrenschildt came to the attention of this office during

the Rockefeller Commission investigations.

We were asked to respond to a

memorandum submitted to the Commission by Mr. Paul Hoch entitled "CIA

Activities and the Warren Commission Investigation."

Mr. Hoch called for

an identification of Mr. J. Walton Moore's employment affiliation and

asked what Mr.. Moore knew about Oswald and what he may have told Mir. de

Mohrenschildt about him. Our reply to the Rockefeller Commission

attached at E.

The most recent information we have on Mr. de Mohrenschildt comes

from Mr. J. Walton Moore who was contacted in May and July 1976 by writers

connected with the Reader's Digest, and with the Dial Press and the Dell

Publishing Company.

Both writers questioned Mr. Moore about Oswald and

Mr. de Mohrenschildt. Mir. Moore's reports on these contacts are attached

at F.

Conclusions:

Mr. de Mohrenschildt appears to have lead an adventurous and

colorful life as a petroleum engineer and businessman.

He is both well

- 2-

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

and poorly

connected, and some of his associations in the past have

raised serious questions.

Certainly his relationship with the

Oswalds has caused him considerable trouble and may have caused this

Agency and the FBI to spend more time and energy on him in the past

than was necessary.

10..

Both the FBI and this Agency, however, had dropped their

interests in Mr. de Mohrenschildt's activities by the mid-to-late

1960's.. We speculate that any attention he is now receiving could

either be from local authorities in Dallas or from media representa-

tives on the trail of a warmed over story concerning the assassination

of President Kennedy. We offer no proof of this conjecture beyond

Mr. Moore's reports attached at F. What we can say is that we have

found no indication that either CIA or the FBI has taken any active

interest in Mr. de Mohrenschildt in recent years.

Tom 4.

Chail

waller

Walla

Attachments:

A thru F a/s

nsullise

20% 53

1 39081.12

-3-

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

Exeroi de Rejigity

76-5157111

28 September 1976

Mr. G. de Mohrenschildt

2737 Kings Road

Apartment 142

Dallas, Texas 75219

Dear George:

Please forgive the delay in my reply to your September 5th letter.

It took time to explore thoroughly the matters you raised.

Let me say first that I know it must have been difficult for you

to seek my help in the situation outlined in your letter.

I believe I

can appreciate your state of mind in view of your daughter's tragic

death a few years ago and the current poor state of your wife's health.

I was extremely sorry to hear of these circumstances.

In your situation, I can well imagine how the attentions you

described in your letter affect both you and your wife.

However, my

staff has been unable to find any indication of interest in your

activities on the part of Federal authorities in recent years.

flurry of interest that attended your testimony before the Warren

Commission has long since subsided. I can only speculate that you

may have becone "newsworthy" again in view of the renewed interest

in the Kennedy assassination and, thus, may be attracting the atten-

tion of people in the media..

I hope this letter has been of some comfort to you, George,

although I realize I am unable to answer your question completely.

Thank you for your good wishes on my new job.

As you can imagine,

I'm finding it interesting and

challenging.

Very truly yours,

George Bush

Director

206 50

95264:1?

23

---

## Page 7

13-00000

MICROFILNED

APR?

1969

DOC. MICRO. GER.

SECRET

30

•CIA into

on De Mohrenschilats

and:

sent to Warren. Commission

MEMORANDUM MOR: 1I. J LeS Parala

Prestimat's Caracalasica as 13s

DD/24.2220

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOI VER

XAAZ-17376

3: Jume 1764

summarized

i:

SUBJECT

L Refera is made to you rabaaraudes di il Marcs

176% jonsastisa any lularmasion da GaNgo tri JaIres Do

MOURENSCHLIT MAL IS AVALIDE lA CIA 1193. 04X 200107

abors inai lua filas contala reparts rectived lose char 7.5.

Govaran agascian prizasily to Fal, 1o Wall ad some it-

formasius derclopad by thia agaasy 1o1757 and 1955. Tus

-ed1ow0170 2001a591 relerents to instatlan la is tocorda

Di lo Chorilatar ai Intoriaaso sod taa Crice oi Stralegin

SEITINHH. NCCDX12110129.ECK0-49D.10093502E309, 530523

1962. M2l619 304 bissu bataugs so Was allogod to ba a MAs

seplonaja agoui, No information dansloian by CLA for ils

bad catablaid say laS baiNIDA 1A De LOHRENSCHIDIS

2. CIN'3 inicial latInaI in GEDIgO DE MOLRENSCILLOI

Leuslatou as I 10Hal, 0f dia Jojorta in TugoslaMia in 3953 07

boball di the Intemallonal Coppuration Agancy (101). In chat

COAÇENN ENG

in tha early part of Darausbar 1957, Ix ts courts ol'sonaral

•sasetings to Cil repressaisins obiiard foxaiga intolligance.

mich war tromptig derelainà 10 cher focarai agancida in

Ion depasala copait, Ibe Dallas reprosentalira contiauad

1201-725:439

limit

SECRET

CROW Y

Exclusad frora solanali:

desngradlug aid

coclassilicatios.

об.

3 Jun 64

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECHET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

T

¡no of lÃ IEnt: 39 C9A540a Di arctenseas and Usa of = iaieo

nama. Senienes was gaspaadnd Dondlas conaledos 06e 24802-

jeàà probacianary fazios

5, Itroagasu Lia adei liza, Gasigs Da LOHAENSCSHDT

Dãr asod sariallonà oi bús basie zuo. Ieraling sac sartaaia za

JOS Í+ HOHRENSEHKDT, JACLY YOD 10EAEESCHLLOT George

VE HIDSBEDSTA1LO; EAS, CHO-ZE BUFYI LO LICHRZC.

JIETCRE SEENICE CTE DOTITA EAEY CE FERCES GRFE dE NETINTE AEIT EI

05igãs10a Buszlas, to Foùsh, SwHish, Dasiah, aa6 Goszas

Thast appni (0 t0 1H0 V955109) 051l z001be, a batlica sama:

AUS7++ 1A70SK11 IIÏ LXKTO LAPOLGEL

7. IBISpI gOM JUAD E, BIORAISSUI, C20÷ 60

.IR

S. On17 Mares tos a iB1 l alabad to tis Ageacy a

Hega44 Eeb4a 15 120+90

Basblaztua, D. Fo, iD 1210. In that tonort Isri (Guorgt) Da

MOntEnSCHlD +a +0545a4551695803915 dslas nha

Bad worhad In to Toxas ou fales aud la Vesestls Faxessalag

GARANIN/ DuS Eocordo ôbow $aa: 19l bas sexa → s0arber Đ5 2ba.

Sovian Staro Basualsy Basulea probably slasa tis ais-1990*8, B5

20tTod In Glibs Ia 1933; MI World W:= 13 Da aido 1957d 13110

U.S.: Hungary and Elalasd.) Accozdiai to Dur rotarda, iba 1a-

LOIHÄCn IMS GAL1 2N Ti ADEGSA TIN FG SOYO

Stato Jacuely Sariso bãs zino beos kron tO ts ERI.

You may aise whoh io aano legalzios a: tho Ostca of

Masa! Malaganto, laa tasiaas Casi Oi stel, 134+11 g7044.

Danarinan; o1 tha 457y, tco hoparionast of stato dod tae Civii

Barrico Curaissidà Bacauso thast Uppaitadats alão bats 1añ0s

(3203 -10 090E5 DO MOHAENSCHLLOE.

Distrioation:

Orig. & 1- AddIas9es

2 -DDP :

1- C/CI/R&A

2- C/CI/SIG

2- -C/WF/3

1. = CI/R&A/Bartnan

Dee/er/eit Hantren

X- C1/R2A/202 ES COPY SEERET,

Exy Wor Di=,

RIca+A I1+Lz

Dapsiy Dirdesor 10y Plazi

-3 Jim 64

201-725439

---

## Page 9

13-00000

• SEGRET

:2p

DCE

1 13 E4

Acting Chief, Contact Division (Diract)

ATTi

z Support

Dallas Residest Agency

Stew Casa 43259

MICADFILMED

APR 7

1969

DOC. MICPO. SER.

REF

artass Hero 20 ip5 54

° Details of J. Walter MOORE's contact with Gearge

De Mehrenschildt. from 1957 to 1951, (MOORE from

00/Contretor Dallas office

I, I have knowa 6aurga do Homenschildz and his tilla sinco 1957.

My Latuat actual contact sith the was In t Iall of 1961, although I

recalusd a Chrintaus card fron thes ¿axing Christsas of 1953-

The card

railed toca Port-u-Prinen and a cony Di tele, int is attached.

a Deincanville,

CIT-UJA ecc-busin

2a "After cur lata Frasidants assassination, either on the 23d

dox 14th of dormalar 1953, 1 raceived & telephona call Ires Dra Paul

Texas.

Ix. Reichertz advised that seabers of his staif hai attended sone

kird of social ur discassion group in January 1953 at which Lee Harrer

No mention was mèt at this tina of Georzo de Motren-

schildt.

I tolà Dr. Roichertz ho should report this information to the

Local offica of tha FBI and be replied that he knes na cha is zoe: Dallas

offica a tha Fil and ashed if I ucald pasa the inforation along for bin,

I called the fil and they said thay would send somebody out to talk to:

Ira Raicherti: I nado no effort to jollon up

on the natter with. Paul

ReChEL SCA 1 LALT IT MAS TONG OF MY OUSINOSS ME LUÌ A TIJIt

Hiù kanyann Duggas, "Hit Librarian at Secouy Hobil Research Jab and a

good contact

of mine for many years, sha advised that she had heard that

de Hohrenschlict had befriendad Oswald after his arrival ia Dallas anl

had introdsced his to a study 2roup.on the USSRa

CIT-USA ESC-librarian.

-

a sourco lazd Iron headquartars, dated 22 lor 57, advising that Geergo.

se Horenschildt had recastly raturnad to dallas after sperding approxi-

autely a year in lugoslavia on a job for ite ICa. I calial on do Huhras

schildt in carly December 1957 and subsitted i nans chock, dated 6 Dac 57.

10nh37, len a Mon considerable biographic data, which i assonal niece

do Hobrerachilst gave so a copy of standard-personal history

Thee HOROSHALD (261-259245)

Doc, contains second-hand knowledge of Pr. PibridesChERIz

and Maryann DUEGAN, both of Saceny

Mobil

, on Subj 201-725439

Cs COFy

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SE90E7-

At this timo I sar aid sor lirs. Jan de dohrenschildt, à shito russian

enigras Eron Stanghai, i saw the do Hohronschilat's several tinas in 1953

and 1959- In late 1959 or early 1960, Mr. and Mrs. do Hobrenschildt went

on an 28 sonth biling trip through mexico and Central America-

An account

et this trip, as taken from the 1S Cot 61 issua of the Dallas Tines Heraid,

In tha vay of a personal assessaent, I would say that ta

do Mohrenachilt'= are an interosting and unusual coupla.

This is, I

baliava, the second barriago for both or thes. Mrà de Konranschilds,

uso has bean a successaul, dras dasignar, has a grosh,sarried daughter,

who is quito a fina artiat Goonya da Hohrazachilit has savaral childraz

by his first wiis (reportadly a vary wealthy wonan now living in tha

Middlo East).. One at his chilaran died of cystic fibrosis and George

de sohranschilit has always boin very activs in tha yearly cystic fibroaia

fund raising campaign

Geosga de lohrerschildt takes a gods apparrancs.

He Is

atout six foot tall and vaigha arousa 190 pounds.

For a nan his ago,

approxinataly 53, he reaps binsale in gooù condition and la a bit of a

physical fitaris nut. le is a accorate drinker and wen I last sas

hin, sooked a pipes I Hould dascribe his porsonality as fiendly and out-

going altinough I have heard hin rearned to 23 concaited. le reputadly

has an eys for tha ladies zol I understant his intarast doas not go

unreciprocatal. Ha luals a schawhat unconvantional lita, plays teria

at 5 o'clock in the wornios, ha is rather outsporan, has a kean intorest

in intarrational affairy ard in social justico,

By loças conserativo

stardards, ho vouli be considared a liberal lils outlook ca lifo is

continatab

De lohrenschilds is fairly wall knows in petrolaua circles

His balles. I only know of one good friend of ai3.

This is(Col, Livience

"Orion (Ratired) who 1s in the oll leasing Duainass.

The cOlonel and I

both play kindball Ho mentioned aba last tiaa I say him that da dolin-

schilli santos his to cone to faiti to belp his run a plantation and

organise a espany there.

I believa that tha da Mohionschildi's leit

for Haiti in about February of 1953 but I aa very vague on this point.

If there 1s any alditional falomatica i can furnish, pleasa let no low,

DEMOHRENSCHILDT (201-725439)

Ja. WALTON MCORE

as stated abera.

pomay 64

201..725439

SEGRET

---

## Page 11

13-00000

whon Filled

In)

DATE

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:

13 Augnst 1958

Chief, Contact Division, 00

Chief, Personnel Security Division, 'OS

SUBJECT: de MOHPENSCHINI, George

AKA:

Ton CHRENSCH ILDT, George Sergius

- 68281

Mon MORENSCHINE, JerZy

#775

1.

Reference is made to your request for a security clearance on the subject

person as a potential source of intelligence information. The necessary checks have

been completed with the following results:

No additional information has been obtained, except for such

biographic information as indicated below or in the attachment.

Information has been received that Subject was investigated with

favorable results in

c. [x] Certain information has been received and appears in the attachment

which your Division will wish to consider in determining the extent

and level of your use of Subject.

2.

It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identifying

information you furnished or in an attachment to this memorandum.

Should it be dis-

closed that this intormation is erroneous or that Subject is knowa by a different name,

this Division should be notified immediately.

Mo Knott

Chief,

Personnel Security Division

Attachment:

Sumnary

Solon

#1622

DISAPPROVED-U

THIS CTEGORY IS ASSIGNED BY INDEX

FOR HEADQUARTENS USE ONLY. THE

DETER ViliNES

CLASSITIED DISCLOSURE

se

44 433

/ sl

ONLY BO.

8

SEP 3S1

ENES OMY

FORM NO.

8 8:04 38

1124

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 12

13-000,00

#775

Subject was investigated by Federal Agencies in 1941, 1912,

1945, 1947, and 195%-

the investigation reports as tell as the

files of other Federal Agencies reflect the following:

Between 1940 and 1942 Subject was considered to be

pro-German and suspected of being a German propagandist and

an espionage agent.

Several informants stated that Subject was in sympathy

trith the Communist form of government in Russia but knew of no

un-American activities on the part of Subject.

Ons informant

advised in 1947 that Subject had definite Conmnistic tenden-

cies.

Investigations failed to produce any legal competent

evidence or witnesses to substantiate the reports that Subject

had been pro-Gomunist or pro-Nazi.

Majority of informants consider Subject to be eccentric,

irresponsible; conceited, an adventurer fond of

exaggeration, and

overly aggressive.

Subject has been known to associate with persons of

questionable loyalty, reputation, and moral character.

Lubject, when interviewed, admitted that he tends to exag

gerate and advised that he thought the Communist form of govern

ment of soviet Russia was the better form of governmant on the .

European continent, and that he had a great admiration for the

Communistic form of government, but that that did not prevent

him fron having a stronger feeling of loyalty to the government

of the United States.

#1622

GONFIDENTIAL

AYES CHIY

---

## Page 13

13-00000

George DE MOHRENSCHILDT

Fron the Office of Security

CIA CONNECTION:

DE MOHRENSCHILDT was security disapproved for OSS employ-

ment on 18 July 1942 because he was suspected of being a Nazi

agent. On 13 August 1958 derogatory information was furnished

the Contact Office who was interested in interrogating him as

an alien contact.. His second wife, Phyllis whom he married on

11 July 1948. and divorced 29 December 1949, was employed as a

receptionist by a covert project (NCFE) from 1950 to 12 January

(Reason not given.)

Subject's brother, Dimitri S. VON MOHRENSCHILDT, was

approved on 11 April 1950 for exploitation as a contact for

foreign intelligence purposes on a limited basis; not to receive

classified information above confidential.

OS INDICES RESULTS:

OS Files on Subject, his second wife, and his brother

reflect use by the Agency as

set out above.

investigated by the FBI in 1941, 1942, 1945, 1947 and 1957.

Between 1940 and 1942 Subject was considered to be pro-German

and suspected of being a German propagandist and an espionage

agent.

with

Several informants stated that Subject was in sympathy

the Communist form of government in Russia but knew of

no un-American

activities

on the part of Subject.: One infor-

mant advised in 1947 that Subject had definite Communistic

tendencies. However, investigations failed to produce any

legal competent evidence or witnesses to substantiate the

reports that Subject had been pro-Communist or pro-Nazi. . The

majority of informants consider Subject to be eccentric,

irresponsible, conceited,

an adventurer fond of exaggeration

and

overly aggressive.

He has been known to associate with

persons

of questionable loyalty,

reputation and moral character.

Subject has admitted that he tends to exaggerate and stated

that he thought the Communist form of government of Soviet

Russia was the better form of government on the European

.. 7

---

## Page 14

13-00000

continent; that he had a great admiration for the Communist

form of government but that this admiration did not prevent him

from having a stronger feeling of loyalty to the government of

the United States.

A New York Times item for 12 December 1966 mentioned that

George DE MOHRENSCHILDT has been acquainted with Jacqueline

KENNEDY's father, John BOUVIER, and mother, Mrs. Hugh AUCHIN-

CLOSS, since Mrs. KENNEDY was a girl.

The DE MOHRENSCHILDT'S

were quoted as saying they were perhaps the only persons in

the world to have known

the families of both President KENNEDY

and OSWALD-

SECHET

---

## Page 15

13-00000

TUNGLASSITIEU

L

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Inspector General

Koom 2E21 Hqs.

TO:

(Oficer designation, room numbor, und

building)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Hoch/Warren Commission Paper

EXTENSION

6565

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OGC

17S

2.

NO

DATE

28 April 1975

COMMENTS (Numbor roch commont lo shove from whom

to thom. Drom a line across column alter euch comment.)

The attached documents are

submitted for review and clear-

ance to the Presidential

Commission investigating the

CIA. Please return, unmarked,

to the Inspector Ged eral as soon

as possible. Space for concurs

rence is provided below.

5.

This paper MUST be ready for

release to the Commission by

noon 28 April.

10.

11.

12.

83.

14.

15.

FOZM

3-02

1-10

I concur in the release of the

attached documents to the

Presidential Commission.

HANDCARRY

610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE CHILY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 16

13-00000

with the Oswald case?

Answer:

Mr. J. Walton Moore was employed by CIA in the Contact Division

office in Dallas during the early 1960's.

His only

contact

with the Oswald case

prior to the assassination is recorded in

his 1 May 1964 memorandum to the Acting Chief, Contact

Division, attached at Tab 8 (a typed version of the document

is also attached because of the poor legibility of the

original). He may have been involved in the Agency's effort to

support the Warren Conmission during the Connission's investi-

gations.

MI. Moore has stated that he was never asked by Mr.

de Mohrenschildt for advice.concerning Oswald.

We find no

indication that there was ever any contact between Oswald and

MI. Moore.

13

SECRET SMARTINE

---

## Page 17

13-00000

DAL-83-76

Chief, Domestic Collection Division

:

Chief

of Operations

chief, pallas Field Quice s

Terry trom bicard 98 026

198026: 14729800

14 July 1976

Russell of Dial Press,loncerning Dallas Field

Office Association with Lee Harvey Oswald and George deMohrenschildt

16-08-93

6-82-71

On the evening of 13 July 1976, at about 2100, Mr. Richard

Russell of the Dial Press and the Dell Publishing Company, came by

my house. He advised that he was working on a book on the Kennedy

assassination and that he understood I was a friend of George

defiohrenschildi.

fle wanted to know if I had ever met Lee Harvey Oswald

or if devohrenschildt had ever suggested that I should see Oswald.

I told him no on both counts and advised that I have not seen or

talked with George dellohrenschildt since the fall of 1961.

Mr. Russell attempted to draw me into discussion of the

Kennedy assassination which I avoided and wanted to know if I could

give him the name of the chief of the CIA office in Mexico City in

I told him I could not, and he said he could probably get the

name from tir. David Phillips.

I do not foresee any adverse publicity

as a result of Hir. Russell's visit but felt that it should be made a

matter of record.

J. WALTON MOORE

JWN/jb

2LB31

E2 IMPDET CL BY 003320

---

## Page 18

13-00000

IT:

Memorandum

DAL -69-76

Chief, Domestic Collection Division

Chief

of Operations

DATE: 21 May 1976

: Chief, Dallas Field Office

A68221

Inquiry from Reader's Digest Concerning Dallas Field Office Association

with Lee Harvey Oswald and George deMohrenschildt

A160893

N1 197588

50-97

1.

On 19 May 1976, Pam Butler,,

a research vriter for Reader's Digest,

called

on the listed line.

She

identified herself as being with the

Reader's Digest and said she was doing research for a bool being written

by Harry 'Epstein on the Kemedy assassination. She asked If I had ever

talked to ox met Lee Harvey Oswald. I told her I had not.. She then asked

if I had talked to George delohrenschildt about Lee Harvey Oswald. After

I told her that I would not discuss the matter, she said that she under-

stood from deMolivenschildt that I had talked to him after he had returned

fron a trip to lugoslavia.: I neither confirned nor denied this, and I told

her again I vould not discuss the subject.

2. I do not know if lis. Butler actually talked to delorenschildt

or not since the information she had could have been acquired from the

Warren Commission Report.

E2 JMPDET CL BY 003820

---

## Page 19

13-00000

ILMENZOU

Q

PLEASE RETURN TO

OFFICE

NAME

TUBE STATION

ROOM NO. AND BUILDING

PLEASE DESTROY

TORA

8.71

329

32913

WILL CLIZOW

---

## Page 20

13-00000

DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

I do know this man DeMohrenschildt.

I first men him in the early 40'3. He was

an uncle to my Andover roommate.

Later he surfaced in Dallas- (50's maybe):

Ile got involved in some controversial

dealings

in Haiti.

he surfaced when Oswald shot

prominence. He knew

Oswald before

assassination of

Pres. Kennedy..

I: don't recall his

role in all this.

At one time he had /or spent plenty of

money.

I have not heard from him for many years until

the attached letter came.

in.

CB 9-17

Russian peater

---

## Page 21

13-00000

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND SOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

EA/DES

DATE

INITIALS

3

To Bush =

Do you Know this individual?

yes:

ACTIDA

APPROYAL

СОЖЖЕНТ

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFONHATION

Tall

PREPARE REPLY

TRECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SISHATURE

I was suing to fonwant this it

a ear bange letter and

but since it.

I thought.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME: ADORESS ANO PHONE NO.

ES/Baubana

Pinda

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

хоах на 237

Use prasious editions

8-B7

DATE

916/76

SECRET

---

## Page 22

13-00000

ER has no record of previous correspondence

from subject.

---

## Page 23

13-00000

'O you will excuse this

sand-written litter. Magle

du will be able to

Estion into the hopefees ti

ration I find myselfin. -

ту wip and I find

igi lantes; our phone bugged

sealer. Sister TB1 in in

ched in this on they dons

ant. do accept my complain

ease drinn td inadnity ly

his situation

I have been kehaving

ite a damn fool excritince

---

## Page 24

13-00000

T iet

Hatt crd Micot bad aul.

Buf topl - Idon

taeny man tte mivelt tud

could you do somethina

a remore Thi net arouite

Thin wile the my last

wist for help ahid Lowin

mannde face ane mae.

saod duck in yoder

eiTant 806

TNACER TAlDOMCt

9, de Mohrenschita

# 52111309 (9/c214) Daalles 75211

---

## Page 25

13-00000

PM

X-RAY

RECEIVED

Bush

telligence agency

---

## Page 26

13-00000

-2137 Kings Roanl

Dallas. FexTs219

---

## Page 27

13-00000

DISPATCH

Chief, European Division

R FIASSECADIONT

SECRET

CEiR

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Chief of Station, The Hague

ET RYBAT/SYMPATHIZER/MHCOLOR

Iransmittal of Press Clippings

- Willem OLTMANS

ON REQUIRED - REFERENCES

References:

A. DIRECTOR 224537

THE HAGUE 20798

C.

THE HAGUE 20.797

1.

Attached

for European Division are English language

translations of the press clippings concerning

Willem

OLTMANS

mentioned in the references together with copies of

the original

Dutch language press articles.

Also attached is compilation of OLIMANS' contacts

with the Soviets which was prepared by SYMPATHIZER.

requests this material be treated as very sensitive as it 1s

based almost exclusively upon technical coverage of SYWEB.

Kermith O Pile ca

Kenneth D. PIKELNY

Attachments

As stated above herewith

Distribution:

Orig.

&2 - Chief, EUR

w/atts

h/w

UP I

uded from automatic downgrading and declassification.

ES COPY,

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

ONHA-38577

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

1 February 1972

HOS FILE NUMBER

1201-155221

---

## Page 28

13-00000

Subject: W.L. OLINANS (10 June 1925)

On 29 December 1971 OLTMANS invited the Cultural Attache of

Russian Embassy KUZNETSOV for an

evening in his house. The invite

ation was also for some other members of the Russian Representation.

At the same time OLTMANS was to invite some six important journalists

KUZNETSOV should ask OPALEV and IZVEKOV to come along with

The date agreed' on originally was 11 January 1972. It then was

changed twice. When 14 January also wasn't suitable, it was agreed

on 7 January to make the date for 18. January 1972 at 20.00 hrs.

From the invitation it could only be infered that OLTMANS wanted

to offer his guests an opportunity for an informal discussion.

About the background of the present good relations of OLTMANS with

the Soviet Representation

The Netherlands, section B is able to

report the following:

(This information comes from vulnerable source - OPPERBAAS.)

1. In September 1970 OLTMANS says with some surprise that he sudden-

ly received an invitation to

a party at the Russian Embassy.

He thinks it crazy; he

doesn't belong to that club at all. But

his thinking is along the lines of those people.

2. In October 1970 OLTMANS appears to be interested in an interview

with KOSYGIN's son-in-law GISHIANI who allegedly

was connected

with American-Russian discussions about forming a mutual "think-

ing factory":

Presumably this had some connection with the so called Club of

Rome in which GVISHIANI plays a role.

Remark: GVISHIANI is chairman of the

state comnittee for science

and technology

and is suspected to be a highly placed

Intelligence Officer.

3. Begining March 1970 OLTMANS contacted the Press Attache OPALEV

the Russian Embassy; OLTMANS would

still like to have an

interview with GVISHIANI.

It would be a filmed interview in which OLTMANS would

with the NOS. (TV).

In this period OPALEV's cooperation does not yet seem very

extensive.

4. Thanks to the cooperation of Aurelio PECCEI,

chairman of the

Club of Rome, OLTMANS at the end of April 1971 succeeded in get-

ting in contact with GVISHIANI in Paris.

Also present at this discussion was the

former member of the Russi

Embassy FEDEROVSKY, now chief of protocol of the state committee

for science and technology.

---

## Page 29

13-00000

2.

At this opportunity GVISHIANI immediately invited OLTMANS for a

visit to Moscow.

FEDROVSKY was

instructed to inform the Russian Embassy: in The

Hague about it.

GISHIANI who at the same time is chairman of the commission for

environment administration in the Soviet Union, asked OLTMANS

at the same time about the

environment administration

the Soviet Union to support the international environment

conference to be held this year.

Begining May it becomes

clear that since OLTMANS discussion with

GVISHIANI, OPALEV'S

attitude towards OLTMANS has greatly changed.

OPALEV is now all willingness.

In May OLTMANS makes his film with GVISHIANI and receives an inv-

itation to come to the Soviet Union for the second half of August

and the whole of September, where he could film ten

scientific

institutes.

GISHIANI told OLTMANS that he had complete trust in him.

6. In June 1971 OLIMANS again contacted GVISHIANI,

this time in

Vienna, where there was a meeting of the Club of Rome.

7. Begining October 197.1 OLTMANS again saw GVISHIANI in Paris, where,

among other things he spoke to him about his visit to The Netherlan

in the second week of October.

OLTMANS did his best to oblige GVISHIANI while visiting The Neth-

erlands by trying to

establish business

relations for him (for

instance with Philips).

recerued

8. In November 1971 OLIMANS, from

the Russian

state television an

offer for a five year contract to make

exclusive films in

the

Soviet Union.

This offer was made to OLTMANS during his visit to the Soviet

Union. It is concretization of the earlier offer by GVISHIANI to

film a number of scientific institutes in the Soviet Union.

On 17 November OLTMANS allegedly discussed this business further

with GVISHIANI in Geneva.

9. On 23 January 1972 OLTMANS will make another visit to Moscow to

discuss making the above mentioned films without the participation

the NOS: At this opportunity OLTMANS will leave behind a memo

about LUNS in connection with OLTMANS! present agitation against

the Secretary-General of NATO.

OLTMANS wants to prevent LUNS getting any future opportunity to

visit Moscow.

Referring to the meeting in OLTMANS' house on 18 January 1972 it

can be reported that on

17 January 1972 OLTMANS stated that he

is again seeking reaction from the Russians who will visit him

18 January; their reaction in connection

OLTMANS"

to the

general prosecutor of the High Council to bring action

against LUNS.

---

## Page 30

13-00000

11.

3.

In the morning on 18 January OLIMANS

stated that KUZNETSOV

said that OLTANS' action against LUNS will not succeed because

the "bosses" stand behind LUNs.

It is not clear when KUZNETSOV

known

said this to OLIMINS, but it is

that OLTMANS recently attended a mecting whero a numbei

of Russians were present.

(Possibly the meeting of the Association "Nederland-USSR" with

the delegation from

"USSR-Nederland" on 14 January 1972.)

On 19 January 1972 it was reported that HOFLIND (one of the guest

invited

to. the evening in OLIMANS' house) called before his

arrival and asked whether he could bring a friend.

Afterwards this friend

appeared to be Peter ZONNIVELD from De

Telegraaf.

OLTMANS

said that at the press conference which he (OLTMANS)

will give on 20 January 1972 several

guests, Nilo ANSTADT,

KOPUIT and Jaap JANSEN will defend OLTMANS

Rob:!

against the attack on

him in "De Telegraal" of this norning.

19 January 1972.

110%

---

