1992
[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF

""04-10227-10124)

i dasrzsacsethent

(TYPED O/DDP) CLASS.
end) LB. KGRKPATIUCK .
uote LG. WR

tt + 8536 Hinks
cae 2 MA ¥ 1965 is

wos SEE ATTACHED List
#tOMe DIRECTOR

conn, 1G

Oe persia, on rd
uy i 6,3 :

INFO. one,

a ours2iza =
. OUT SA
“S98 —

gy

10 BEER ATTAGHED LIST wo OTE OR
BOOK MESSAGE
FROM ASCHAM) pesuesnenane
as RESULT OF DEFEAT OF THE CUBAN OPERATION CONSIDERABLE
COMMENT CONCERNING KUBARK NOW BEING MADE IN PRESS AND IN CONGRESS.
MANY PROPOSALS ARE BEING AND WILL BE RAISED CONCERNING KUBARK AND
OTHE ACTIVITIES IN THIS AREA OF ODYOKE. ACTUALLY MUCH MIs-
INFORMATION GENERALLY REPORTED AND WHILE SOME PROPOSALS ARE FRO
RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS, THERE ARE MANY DISTORTIONS Or ACTUAL
i SITUATION, DETALS OF CUBAN. OPERATION ARE SUFFICIENTLY ae iN
DEPCIRTEL 1637 AND SUGGEST YOU OBTAIN THIS FOR YOUR INFO. IT IS My Vili.
THAT KUBARK ACQUITTED ITSELF WELL IN MOST RESPECTS, ALTHOUGH I PLA;

WO Attn Ais Emnaamna £as7) To AE AVA
FULL REVIEW OF OPERATION AFTER REASONABLE PF. D HAS ELAPSE

- THE MEANTUSE PRESIDENT HAS DIRECTED GENERAL MAXWELL TAYLOK 10 T
CLOSE LOOK AT ALL PRACTICES AND PROGRAMS IN AREA OF MILITARY AND
PARAMLITARY, GUERRILLA AND ANTI-GUERRILLA ACTIVITIES WHICH FALL

SHORT OF OUTRIGHT WAR. HE WILL GIVE SPECIAL ATTENTION TO LESSONS

COOUOINATING OFFICERS

AtCEAsione onnicee SECKET ACTHENTICATING OFniceR

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED, Ceor?
©. \


1

i
i
i
H
1
i
i
1
{
i

Gms DIRECTOR
“Cons,

Deo.

‘PAGE Two

i)

oro ai vie
OR 87
FROM RECENT EVENTS IN CUBA. IN THIS EFFORT HE WILL BE ASSISTED BY

ATTORNEY Rectal CiEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS, AND MYSELF. His.

REPORT WILL Br SUBMITTED TO THE PRESIDENT BY MAY 15,

2. WHILE IN NO way been TO LESSEN THE SERIOUSNESS or DEFEAT In

CUBS. BOTH FOR KUBARK AND PBPRIME, 1 WISH TO ASSURE EVERYBODY That

OUR PRIMARY EFFORT SHOULD BE TO LEARN FROM EXPERIENCE, GOOD OR BAD.

FURTHER, UNLESS InsTRUCTED BY COMPETENT AUTHORITY TO THE CONTRARY,

EVYRYBODY SHOULD CONTINUE WITH HIS PRESENT ACTIVITIES AND PROJE cTs.

FOR YOUR INFO, WE HAVE FULLY BRIEFED APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF

CONGRESS ON THE CUBAN OPERATION AND IN FACT HAVE MORE THAN EVER
BEFORE DURING Rik SESSION OF CONGRESS KEPT THE ARMED SERVICES AND
APPROPRIATE commrtres ADVISED ON DAILY BASIS OF VITAL, Sea hone

ENDEAVOR
PERTINENT OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES AND PROBLEMS. WE WILL RRDEABGR

TO ADVISE You PROMPTLY OF PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS IN WASHINGTON

COORDINATING OFF)

Atieasino orrices “avrmanticatina onnices

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED, Cagy Me,



Om
wate
tre
pares

10 6
FhOM: DIRECTOR
CONF,

INFO e sstica
paiaie : PAGE THREE
10 Into are ow

THAT AFFECT KUBARK, BUT STRESS THAT YOu RECOGNIZE THAT REPORTS

ARE OFTEN MISCCADING, staat :
: FER CTE,

“IN PUBLIC MEDIA Di

END OF MFSSAGE

:.  DDCI (in dratty
bj = COPS (in dratt) ‘

ALLEN Ww, PULLES RICHARD M. Bissz i...

vA :
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN TPE ISSUING CFFICE IS PROM.B:TED, Cope Me


| |

DIRECTOR
one

wo

ALGIERS

TT

ADDIS ABABA

ACCRA
CONAKRY
ABIDJAN
NAIROBI
MONROVIA
TRIPOLI
RABAT cc
LAGos ©
LEOPOLDVILLE
MOGADIScIO
KHARTOUM
TUNIS :

PRETORIA

ht asne grees

REPRODUCTION

|
|

VIENNA

FRANKEURT

ATHENS

}
i
loi
1

saree t

:

ett om

OFKIMAWA

SAIPAN

“BANGKOK

MELBOURNE

KANGOON SAIGON
VIENTIANE

PENOM PENH

BOROLULU KABUL

HONG KONG, COLO4BO

DJAKARTA NEW DELHI

TOKYO TEHRAN

SEOUL BAGHDAD
EERE
AMMA}.

MANILA BEIRUT

: t KATMALDU

r

BY OTHE:

ey renee
SUNG CFFCE

SE IEFICH ATED,

NO Orricer

Copy No



Afnly

KARACHI

JIDDA i STOCHEOLM

ANKAKA BUENOS Alb ES
tReet :
CAIED LA PAL

BRUSSELS
OTTAWA

COPENHAGEN

LONDON
bbws,
KELSINKI

ALA Chiy

ROME PLT al binge

LUXEMBOURG I} TP atclcaa pa

aao CY

ThE nAGUE

Oslo

