(104-10183-10346,, {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

TOP ANG BOTTOM
ist | SkCHeT

. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
_ OFFICLiL ROUTING SLIP

‘ACTION
‘APPROVAL
COMMENT
CONCURRENCE

0 td ached Le feed

Lan phn bn
{

! ETE 237 Re armettert ren


MEMOMANDIGE FOR: Direotor of Tratning

ATTENTION + Chief, Covert Trainiug/os/m

Stiweer 2 Covert Training for somber ot[Ci
e oreantzation

KERERLACE 2° Fruposed. Tratato;

Tralacea Hroa CC/us/'
i

1Olre te requested that covert t

the

30 April T965. Thi will te tho

TvouT}trainees tinted volow for tho

rainiag be givon to
perlod 0:

trainees undor thie prograu which was initiated hy the

Doak of Hrauch threo of WI Viviston through
| Cuiof, Cuvort Training, in Sopteabor

riotlua ror 6: air} .

Cur:
TR

& Maroh ~
second group of (CIvOOD LOI

F
1969, a0 rarest gr

Pp bao been

given an 8 wooks covort

courée ending on 26 Fobruary 1965.
in Washington under tho notional cov

The trainees will be
er of “parttoipating

in itlitary training courses”

or possitly a “purchaning

Ee RSET Ee Sra ee einen set

atooto oir Guverusoat. Aa auch, they will not be
formal visitors aud will aot bo expected to enter
Noutquartore Waiidioge, except for one day training in
the K&S Nutlding, or to meat Agency offiotale fi
O/ + od é
2. Frosect{EIvu0d] 10 a[Carncna Station i
noth a S the o p

ohyeotivey
w

ofa

eieney and

providing advice und guidance
Intelligeuce toforcation tu rus
Covert truiniug cun help taprove

he

aw svarr Agent undur nou-offictal cover

xR

2
BS
7

Jao.
fo
nd niog
ia belleved thut
etfivleucy and

LiPo os es

Wee

fr renee

gerne

&


tntorus! escurtty) will ouatlo this
-urganszation to oro errectivoly cout. tho oxtroaiat
gaorril 1a “wud terrorist 3 tivity fugriontod t tho
tl Eanaiuiot Farty Gf Veno oTa} With afd and oneoura;esout
Vi frea_ Cuba. Piovegnet§ gottiug waxinue ettentics from
castro. iu hfs effort “to uriug 6: 0ut eguanuiat tale-over
3 the daherent valu? of the
1 hoty

_ tg Latin Auoriea. tas bdo!
“gue cymuting ur the traloing wil

Hanarntt) pate

WW i —_f Grtontaitioe 1 aq Counter
nsurgency Lo alee beliig, incfuced. to give) __jottictate pre
rovien ond this to boy the

op grunter awnreueos of tho
ground vorl for future work do this Field.
ns officer for thie

3. Tho ropyoanthid deve onorotts

“ course will be Mr. Fao will be Lnown

to the trainocs oo “Fill Cavat™, eae SOUC identity he

used with tho first group. Aa Agency serviced te:ophone

angler, 638-3120 bas Leoo arrongod and will be given to
tho trainees 09 2 nun *Nibt Cabal" con bo
resoled in on ewor <p, Thies sual 2
hourn a day and Hr to ionedt
the persons who naked ve hin at thot nualor.
is located in room 3u2u13 of Neocquarters Bui iato;
extonsion 4521.

F
{
i

4. Tho folloviua ts pertinent biogrophic ‘data on |

the troinces:

a. tie eer Games ~ \o&
auor 1929) 08

—— =
prub: ( ~_| 85 Septet

Married 9 April 1049. Tan three

_saall cifldareu.

soho eee
Forual Education: Tigh sehoo! s| (datos

oF

Marital Status:

ia

ppoye ne wewwon bag TOT
Seboor at Fort Donning, Georetos

sentgso and studiet English At |
\wortcan University To {tvs} A

TAroy |

|

i

fey. bo attended the|___
Sebeo! of, War} for approxizately

12 noath



’

-3-

vag Lah
“fair

“ enquage AMLTity: Spanish en! sore
} (bogiish listed on

cuiot of advintetration | OT
geotica

- yroaent Statu
Area bnowledge: Tas vinited the USA and Ar

’ previods Intelligence
: Traintag:

RUKSCHUGOD considert (psi

5
Other: p :
reoruif{on retura te \end suggeate
ial attoutiou. || :
i
4
}
1

bo bo Given spec

sor, oF

pron: [9 Sovteavor 1926,

Marital Status: Married 1262, eet guall childrea
Tj, tpsgerate
|o8

High School

Rutored the

service in 49 au bes taken ~
intermediate ead advanced courses g
tu tho(| yarantry) setoo1.0® f
He has ‘Comaanded rifle platoons
ond fofantry companies aad has

gen an iustructor in the(ioreatry lo ;

(Benoit of the AT ey-

Foraal Education:

Language ALALity: Only ootive Spaniel

vreseut Statua: laffiotal; oxoct title aot
witoated.

Yrovious Intolligence
Troiaiug: not indicated

pre es SS 91
G Decondber 1932,

(ese

Hartial statas: jlerrbers - wife 1

Droi

5 aAneme:
Se MaRS nee

SE


Formal Cdugatioa: Not tated, but ¢ rovatty
graduate of t
e —
Lounge AULLity: Not indicated ;
Vrowont Status: [Deputy Dircator of|— ] bg ;

Frevious Intolligence :
Training: Not iudicated oy

roa Knowlodge: Kot indicated. 7 A
71a,

Othor: | bas recently teon woad(Voputy ot aus
Wilrestor ot [___Jend atould be given on
doferouce os thd’ lecdur of the group. :

ha a. (& coum ss—~=~*~=«S | i

mane Sawcwoe 9905 OR

Martial Statug: ‘iarried, three children

i

i

i

Formal Education: High ot 1946-1044; 1

ay oiler) 14 46— 4

awsrgreuuate). Algo opaplet i
spectalized coursnd toCiufeatry> OX

Gactics ond Tank Varfaro, fos well |

{

i

{

as tho course of atudy given by
War College of 2)
infotry of Wor,
has cerved ia o variéty o.
“eopazities within th x5
Arusfaiuce 1947 Fourannting every
1g froa plateons through
battalioua us wol! aa

to "Oporation America”,

Language Ability: Native Speoish, roads Lut dooe
not speak or write Engligh, Mio
coupetence in understancing Knglish,
1s given os “tair",

of artiLlary. /7
Siaiaselihe puoerrillag oY H
“Te sorved ot
o4 dat, Y asa
” “peavor 6 ee
3



Aron auoWledgo: Subjoot's ouly travel outside of
: Cisnozu0lg) was ta

Irevious latelitronce
Troiniug: None findioated but probably

has bac sous intelligence

training during his Mtory] b

o goroor, i‘ aa

Cthar: Ue ta/Ceiof of! of thi
ond wifi provatly return to thia po:

It fe iuuaible that fe jay
ps

th

— wivaout miuwiog tus
etoile of the Folaticoship. t

ml.

Abs verte for tratuing hav: rat )

ond ond are petiding for jon

is gas hat the trainees aro aware of tua a

affiliation of TORCH nd that tha traiuing will Le

conduetod by CIA. The(bfrector of ie aware of

HURSCIVVOOV's CIA senvototion and vas aleo received by the

DCL on 24 July 1964 durieg a visit to the U.S. :

G. Training Requirescuts: The tratfaing ohould be
hold iu @ safehouse, conductod in Spnutsh and on a full
tive basis. Tho vuggcatcd dates are frou 6 March through
BO April 1965, which have toon approved by Chief, Covert
Training, S/T, Thu trainees Will use uctioual wilitary
trataing covor during the trainiug period, aud it ta uot
entictpoted thoy will outor Noadquarters lutldfag. They
will Le tanen tuto the & S Tuilding for a ouo—day
Atdectrivation tn Seals aud Flaps and Audlo Survoil lance,
HWoqueats Cor tule eutrauce witl Le covered in a gepnrate
Fagraya. Ac‘one-day orientation course iu Conuter :
Tnaurgeney 1a alao discussed in a subsequent paragray!

ale

aswell a ettonatve two-eck course 1p Flaye and
rorGlajor at a Ts) Sufo Nouge.
Ue- 16-17

1. itoquirenents fur vi/os/Covert Training: (Station
Cavacad]tiins sutuaittud the following recowucndatioas os
areas Walch should be covered Lo the tratuiug of these
ofticcra: O1i/0s/Covert Trainiog may nodify end/or adapt

tho list «us nocersary.

a, The Orgayivatiou of Clandentiue Activittos

b, Security

©. Observation aud leseription (Cana



i

Terdiuatioa

f. Ciandestino Cousunications
Gg. Counter latolligence
b. Interrogation

4. Reporting
Jj. Intelligence Resoarch and Analysis

8, It to requeatoy! tot Ground Nrauch of SOD woke
tho services of tonol| pvailable for a one-day
oricatation in tle latest tochnigques uscd in tho field of
oounterineurgoscy. Tue trainece aro wall avaro of the
genoral provlens and history of fighting guerrillas and
re sotively engaged iu oporations at the prescut. It te
suggested that the iustrections strove uoc of fotollizesee
in combatting guofrilla groups ead ceana of procuring it
to inolude the creation of intelligence nots acong peasants
fu-the afflicted aroos, It is aloo velioved that cay
current tuforastiou’sn wodiffications in the tactics of

Mao Tae-tang would Aloo. bo of value a3 vould bo oxanples

of the usc of puychologioal warfore progracs ogainot the
guerrillas cud tho Aintolloctual loaders of the cocaualet
party, considered a9 the noviug foree Lchtod tho guerrilla
novouent{in YecozuelayiUit 19 proposes that {

whe vould use the alfao of 4411 Cabal" 83
to the office a that Ue iatroduced
as o consultant: " _vory kuoyledgeablo of ‘
counterinourgoucy proviows A a a ceaber of the :
Iutornatioasl lolice Sorvices Aculeny, bas talked to other ae
Lotin Anerioon officials vx thio problon ag part =o
overt duties, It fe botioved hie talks will eat, B

nore auare of tho throats of insurgency eovercots

bo the ground work for possible future association with
or the(Voaczyelad Governnont in the couaterinsurgenoy



-T- F

fteld. Through eel hief of the Ground Urano of
* $00,- and Mr, Wall, 61 fe Rane hranvh, snishaif doy

orientattlon course was givou tu the first trainecs who
euggeoted that a full day vould bo suffloient duc to the
evel of tuo above trutuecs and the exporionos they have
do this fold.

9. ORrrane, lente Lave beeo wade with Hr. Lu:
sites TSb/troining to providolinjor &
witha Finps snd Sools course for the

April at ou 75D Safe Hotae, It 16 believed

euls course will Lenofit CIA becaunoe 1t

1004, the opportuaity to astutain closer

i121 be ravponsivio fur this type

Vropooes to wake a concertod

titercept’ £10ld to koop better

> °:
tho Flepo da
‘wall offer I
coutact ow
activity(ia
offort in the Tett.

\ aforwed of the extreae loftiat offorta to overthrow the
HQ

nezuelan) goveruuent, and it fe felt that HMUits!
can keop abroast of the cporation. Beonusc of q
respousibilitios, it ia beliovod that the nore effiofént
effort that ag sole i flold will result te
the henofit of CIA.oMfin jy Mould take the firvt six
Weoks of the covert training course then dovote the lost
two weeks to the Claps cud Joals course,

10. It is also requested that TS9/Trotuing provide
@ og0-Gay course in Audic Surveillance oud flaps and
Seale for the othor three trainses at the k & S Building.
This should ve a very geuoral briefing with the least
possible omphaois on ocapiicated, oxpensive equipuout
that aight be later requested hy tho trainees, It fa
believed thie general introduction will give the
trainees sono idea ag to eypronches and problean—{uvoTved
in these fields an woll ov tho pitfalls that ahould be
avotded. This one-day course waa given to the firet three
tratuoen tho appeared fayroused with the couccpte oxposad
to thea. This subjoct tas also beou diacusacd with Mr.
Luria aui a fira date tes Loen selocted for the training,
Tho oTit tustructor will cecoupany the trainees aud aot
as translator.



It

for tho viettors to enter the. it
trofuing which is Sohodulod for

is roquested that C1/( obtaty peratanioe
S butidtug tor this

he 49th of april.

Coneu: rances:

DE,

ror Trotuive aud Qoalitication Weview
w1/3 he (24 ven. 65)

Distribution:

Orig & 1

- Addressce

L - por/rro

mm nig

> TSD/TING

- cgarenud
- ¢Aam
- C/NU/P ang
= U/3{V OR

