# 104-10165-10005

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10165-10005

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRANSMITTAI

Of

OB'OES INFORMATION REPORT

140

S-CRET

ICUTING

14527 21 40=64

idiote

EXT.

DATE

=:7

TDCS DE:15!20519-66

INFORMATION COPIES

CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, PJ/IT 6, Ii, CA 2, Ca/2D0, DOIS, WE Lu, WH I<

DATE DISTRIBUTED

27 1ug1st 1961

SAR

3. 52/31

PRECEDENCE

1

DISSIMINATION

1

5.2T

SAVESE

SA/CI

5A52 REL

E1/50/1E,,K

EVALUATICN

REQUESTED

CE

STATE

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

S304

PACH

/ ROUTINE

ASED ON (FLD. RST., PROL)

TARVE-1032

-3G-5759

:? (AMRAZZ-1)

LiEISOn +

(=N-61212)

Fiscen

ARMY

NAVY

AR

COLTROLLED DISSEA

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Ority

Do Nol Reproduca

ENTICATING OFFICER

CANON

SECRET

COORDINATING OFFICERES)

03

For ithurs

П-ад те-8 описАт порость котист

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CATALES DIEESY

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY A CUE:/ DOMINICA: PEPUBLIC/PUERIO RICO

22 AUGUST 1964

DATE Of

INFO.

TDCS+3=15/90549%4

DISTR. 27 L7STST 1944

- SUBICT

RESIGHATID'T OF ROSELIO CISTERS CIR FOM JEFE

ATTITUDE OF DOMITIGLI GOTEENEST TOURES DETRE 03

JULE TESSELS LI THAT COUNTY

2.

MACE&

DATE ACQ. 25 BiGEST 1962

REF

IN 6:114

SOURCE

FELD REPORT NO. 75-559

AND

APPRAISAL: A CELY EIILE NITY EXCELIZIT COITACTS IN EE VOTEREST RSIOLICICTRETO ES

→ 85 23 2 224663

PEPORTER FOR MORE TELE A TEA? ON TEE, LOTTTRIIDS DE LETS ORGGNIZATTON DID LES

EPILTATES ANT CE BETLE POLITICAL DEVELOSNETIS IN GRIDIAL. FEIS IFOZMATION

HIS OBTALED FROM MAI LESHICE.

• 1. ON 23 AUGUST 1964 MAX LESNICK, EDITOR OF REPLICA, A

NEWSPAPER PUBLISHED JOINTLY EY THE MRP - ALPHA 66 - SFNE ALLIANCE

AND THE JUNTA REVOLUCICHARIA CUEANA (JURE, CUSAY REVOLUTICIATY

JUNTA), SAID THAT ROGELIO CISNEROS DIAZ RESIGIED HIS MEMEERSHIP

IT GURE ON Z2 AUSUST AND THAT HE iNTRIDS TO GO TO FUERTO RICO TO.

• LOOK FOR WORK. ACCORDING TO LESNICK, CISNEROS MROTE A LETTER OF

RESIGNATION TO VARIOUS MEMEERS OF THE NATICAL EXECUTIVE, EX-

PLAINING THAT SINCE THERE WAS DISSATISFACTION. WITH MIS LEADERSHI?,.

HE THOUGHT IT WOULD EE SEST TO LEAVE THE ORGAMIZATICH. (FIELO

CONFIDENTIAL

CUSTOMS

ICS SECOFF

BORIER PATROL

COAST GUARD

CONTROLLED 5I5S34

USA OC ONE OCE OR DO FBI

ISCAS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLO DISSEY

IDES ====::

305-30ck

I 6::::

PAGE

COMMENT: REFER TO TOSCOE-315/58521-57 DATED E LIST, PEE L FRET

VIOUS REPORT ON FEE RESIDE 2E DE CISIEEES.)

2.. LESNICK

SAID THAT VARIGUS MENEERS OF JURE ARE OPERATING

IN SANTO DOMINGO. WHILE THE DOMINICAN GOVERNET IS 50E ALLOWINS

THE GROUP PERMANENT MOCRASE FACILITIES, JURE VESSELS WILL EE PERMITTED

TO ENTER AND LEAVE THE PORTS WITHOUT LiTY TROUSLE.

3. FIELD DISSEM: CINELANT, CliESO, CHESTFOR, LAMA REPS

STATE, FBI, 1815, CUSTOMS, SOPDER FATTEL AND USES. (ALSO SENT SANTO

DOMINSO AND SAN JAii.)

2

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

CONTROLLED DISSES

---

