# 104-10215-10127

## Page 1

2-010010

104-10215-10127

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/ VOLUME:

BARULIN, VALENTIN VASILYENICH

201- 261813

VaL. IL

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUNEVIS

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEVING OFFICIAL

NOT LEVIEVED BY HSCA

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

C

€

SECRE

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201

DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE•

PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE

MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL

INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED

-FROM IP/FILES.

BAKULIN, V. V•

201-0261813

"SEX

CIT USSR

074-005-102

52-05555147

. )

PRORABLY IDEN

WITH VALENTIN VASILYEVICH

RAKULIN

1201-02618130

KNOWN GRU

DATE

11

NOV-74

09204198

"SECRET

201-0261813

E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979

---

## Page 3

VALENTIN VASILYEVICH BAKULIN

201-0261013

FORWARDED VIA SBMT-1054: 14 88

MAR 74

+301-0261513

CASSUTICATION

dip. C-3

OST SERIAL NO.

ISSUED OH

MOS-1226--

June I, 1970

•VALSO THROUCH

l'nled. or (2; Appl.

REFUSIO ON

Sept, 1, 2970

SEANCE NO.

REMARKS

FEE PAID. U. 8.S

gratis

LOCAL CY. EOUTVALENI

Баруміи

APPLICATION FOR

MONIAMIORAAT

VISA

AND ALIEN

RROISTRATION

14113

CLASSICATIONi

POST SEMIAL NO.

C-3 off:

NOS-3836

ISSURED ON

1 3 JUN 1965

fOR

Unted. or 1 I Appl.

To Se5 503

REFUSED ON

"X8

SEE NO

... - 10344505

TARILE ITEM NO.

22

FEE PAID, U. S. 1

Gratis

LOCAL CY. FOUNAUNT

XXx

- PHOTO -

APPLICATION POR

NONIMAIGRANT

VISA

AND ALIEA

RIOISTRATION

OASSENCATION

G3 dipe

ISSUED ON

3 0 SEP 1969

VARD DETOVEM

30D50 969

SENCE NO.

22

Gratio

LOCAL GI. EOUTVALENI

APPLICATION FOR

MONIMAJORANT

VISA

AND ALIEN

• REDISTRATION

розу вера Nо..

MOS-1651 Piera

ток

Valed. or (I Appl.

REFUSED ON

ISSUED ON

30 SEP 1969

VALID MHROUGH

3 0 DF

1969

SiMa NO.

RAROFA ITEM NO.

22

LOCAL CY. EQUIVALENT

APPLICATION FOR

MONIMMIDRANT

VISA

AND ALIN.

RROISTRATION

POGT SERIAL NO..

MOS-1650°

Valed or (Il Appl

REFUSED ON

«Викивій

---

## Page 4

VALENTIN VASILYEVICH BAKULIN

201-0261813

MAR

74

FORWARDED VIA SBMT-1054, 14.88

- 01-026/813

FAMIT MARE

BAKULIN, VLadimir Valentinövich-

[TRAVEI DOCUMENT

Sov. dip.ppt#030710%

188 May 19, 1970

HAL

EYES

MARITAL

STATUS

Ow@D

30 Jan. 191

COMPIEXION

white

10nt

38194847191 entIENT AND PURPOSE ON STAY NU.S.

BAKULIN

First

Secretary

Sovot

01

In transit to and from Merdoo

starstable

sa, nos by one a is sorrous

signed baler i

Waived

Richard

Combs, Jr.

conal or the Lated sistes of America

21 1970

FORM FS-257

FAMSY MAGE

GIVEN MAME

BAKULIN, Madinds Valentinovich

HOME ADDRESS

PLACE AND DATE OF BUTH

MAIZ

EYES

HEIGHT

MARITAL

STATUS

IMES

DwOD

SET

OCCUPATION

I dach

19.5

SergeYeVI

0. 1,

Manor oviet

Son of yalent

BAKULIN, Serind Sec

no a fan

vali

Robert L. Barry

initil ol ina unico States di imerica

7002 FS-257

кото

FANDY NAME

BAKULINA,

GIVEN MAN

. Vera Ivanovna

ma mue so da p.p: 4028233, 4

158. June 21,

1967

NOME ADDRESS

Moscow

DAY

TRAR

RAGE AND DATE OF MITH

MOSCON

27 Septe 1927

COMMEXION

Waits

нАП

LETES

NIGHT

MADOMALTY

MARKS

Blond

GraY

sEx

1640m

пода

LOCCUPATION

LENGIN ADO PUSPOSE OF STAY DU U. S.

MARITAL

STATUS.

Bife

of Valentin Vasilyenci

In t ranadt to.

Second

Hordeo

Robie M. Palmer

Cissul oi the United States of America

Naived • 1969

NoT ears, n0. a2-807.1d

1062'FS-237 roomsons

TRAVE

3А-

HOME ROOKESS

Moscow

PACE AND DATE OF BIRTH

DAY

TEAR

MOSCOW

9 Pebo 192.5

"Alond" Brin

n*C 178cn

MAROMAUTY.

3EX

LENGTH AND PURPOSE OF STAY LY U.S.

MARTIAL

STATUS...:

OCCUPATION

Doylet

LATES!

Dina

second Secretary

In transit

Pim of Soviet Embassy

OmD.

n Mexio

me le harried

stern

Dis i to,

Waived

Robie M. Palmer:

Tot the tirad States of America

5084 FS-257

ком

---

## Page 5

FBI DOCUMENTS

LANDING CARDS

DATE: 19 NOVENGER 1970

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: BAKOULINE, VALENTIN

BAKOULINA, VERA IVANOVNA

---

## Page 6

TO.

DEPARTMENT OFSTATE

_ REQUEST FOR: BIOGRAPHIC. D

FROM,

CIA

AN'

Valentin BAKOULINE

HOME ADDRESS

ALIASES, MICKNAMES

SEX

CITIZENSHIP

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

Feb.

9.

1925

•MARITAL

SPOUSE'S NAME

STATUS

OCCUPATION

1491 1

Soviet

NAME AMD ADDRESS OF PRESEMT EMPLOYER

PREVIOUS EMPLOYERS AND PORMER ADDRESSES (Approxicoraly lads lo9 yaora) .

Ns, B second Secrotary soviet imbassy lexies City:

Accompaniod by wifo, Vera sept. 27, 1927

MOSOCW, USSR

C-S ViSas LESuCd, arTiVinS NE Ai-100 OCt 29, 1920.

OFFICE

DATE

Visa Offica

NAME OF SUBA (26 OFFICER

SC2-10-32Dus

•OR USE OF OTHER OFFICE(S) OF TI

S6/610

118482

FOR USE OF DEP

IMENT OF STATE ONLY

TYPE OF DEPARTMENT PROGRAM

MENT OF STATE

REF

701%

10|29

For Infornation concerning Subject

you are referred to

CSCI-3/171,wö dated 2 July 1962, subfect: BAKULIN, Valentin

& popy of saich was previously sent to your departrent.

'Tasilyevich,

referred to the Federal dureau of Investigation.

You

urther

05-939

CO FILAIN 201.20.00*

:29 OCT 1970

---

## Page 7

BARULIN, Valentia Vasily ish

DPOB: 9 PEB 1925:

(ВАКИ)

P..6059

201-261813

Wife:

Vera Ivanovna. DROB

2i' Sept 1921

80n:

Vladiair DOB

вірне все 2 нерт 69

311 Jan 1954 (not 1a Mexico)

5. 23 let 63

Career:

Nov 1959 - Jaa 1964:

Baployee Otttatt Offteet Sov Embassy, Mexico City.

(Subject replaced Viktor L. KHUKHORBV, vas replaced

by KHUKHORBY.) 888XH

Embasay, PAo!:

COT: 24 BA BEDC ROUTPOR

Overt Fitios

spent, Freiericke

and LNERGO Case BAROB.

---

## Page 8

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PRADO VUNIT

NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

INSURO

ROTTIO

CLASSITTED MESSAGE

• • TOTAL COPIES Le

SECRET

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBI.RO

ROUTINO ARCIOR INÍTIALE

.5

ar..

DINSEM BY.

30

ACTION UNIT

SBP

ACTION NO.

792

35°

aha

PER

FILE, VR

BiA

WH8 EZ eL aloes clicz

SECRE I Z6233BZ OCT 78 CITE MEXICO CITY

4688

DIRECTOR

O REDTOP AGRIP

1. U.S. TRANSIT VISAS REQUESTED FOR VALENTIN VASILYEVICH

AN WIFE, VERA IVANOUNA, WHO HAVE RESER-

VATIONS DEPARI MEXICO 29 OCTOBER 78 ON AEREONAVES FLI. 488.

2. BELIEVE THIS IS PCS DEPARTURE AS HHE PACKED AND

SHIPPED MID-OCTOBER.

30 FILE: 201-261813.

GP - 1

SECRET

26 Лт.N 193302

AN

2201

SECRET

260070

201-24/813

---

## Page 9

S:J2

DEPT. OF STATE TELESFAN

MEXICO 1640

DATE: 21 AUGUST 1970

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: VISAS HORSE: RE VLADIMIR BAKUZIN.

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SOUTCe: MEXICO CITY -B

НИМА - 39510

Reel 180.: 65(191)

Side (s) :

One

Readability: Pair

SCOREI

Perala) of IntorcODe: N50219

Roc'd at Prod. Unit:.

5 Oct 70

Processing Completed: 20 Ooivver 1970

Transcrlber/Checker:

ZP

Translator/Editor:

Typist:

2,P

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SOUrCES MEXICO CITY -B

Reel dio.: 65(191)

Dates

of Intercept

5 Sep

70

Ko - Boris PavloVich NOLOAYAKOV

Mrs Xo - LIdiya Alekseyevna KOLOMYAKOVA

Cut 1 (4 Sep 70, 1830-1831)

Ko says to his ulfo that he, leavos.

((K. leaves))

•Cut 2 (5 Sep 70, 1140-1309)

((Silence, steps and hauering are heard)) K. says that che blouse of his

wife does not 80 very well with her skirto the dals very slad that konoticed 1t:

"I am very happy that you are interested lo my appearance hur you ahmuld los se

1a sony blouse I put on." (Mrs lo lapha)

Hrs Bo and her husband eat. ((Huale 1s heard from another apartment)).

ko vas in Cuernavaca (lA torm not fafr from lazico City)) wich another sou,

whose name. Is not rentloned and Vasilly ((Probo LIMIN)) picked then up in' bla cer.

((Pause) )

'sis

MIs Ko says that Valentina ((KASATKINA)) lost 14 B8, she did not ent breat

faste at allo ((Silence))

Mrs to says that it 18 vara coday, to thinke that lt 1e vara for her because

she had a drink. Mrs Ro did not have any drink yet! ((Silence))

No reads a neuspaper. ((Pause)) Mrs lo aska uho vill be elected in Chile.

Ro degas - 'afond uho dolonge do che lore party, due be should do approvad by

Bongress. ((Stlence, boch read)) Hra. Ko says that ste 11kes to buy figures

Of mexican man and MoRan as a souvenire. Mrs li complains chat shecar dot cake off

paint fron her nails.

HES Ra SAYs that "BAKULIN 10 an Impudent fellow (aakhal), BAULI and b1s

*1fe are compleftly differeut persons, (ley have different charac

different

In everything. Hiffother woman in her glace bould bave at lease 10 lovers

Vera (BANIA) aldo could bava a lover she should atten bebe sa should

check on him atleast oncel. She should go to abe different hotele and look for

hiM ((BAKULIN)) Once IVANOV told LArISA ((PrOb. Lora GOLUZOVS)) char one.

evening BAKiLINA caDe home late and LiKULIN did not vane to open tbe door for.

ber.

BAKULIN asked her vife to urite a report ubare she vas so late in the evening.

POOr BAKULINA was bessing his for'a long time before he unloked the door.:

(Both laugh)). Valentia ((BAKULIN)) 16 a b1g Idler." ((S11enco))

Ko asks his wife to get up from the bed. Mrs K. asks her husband to wash

---

## Page 12

14-00000

5 AG

((Stlence)) ko calls bis wife from another room and offers her nuts.

Mrs Ko

enters and says thit she ((Hra K.)) 18 not too fat. Ko agrees with her.

No says that they have encugh

bread. ((s1lence, steps are heard. K. and his

uife are getting ready to go somewherod) K. says chat he will go ahead of his

vife he rust atart the cero cero leavas and one minuce after hia/leaves tes kal)

(End of tape))

SECRET

---

## Page 13

14-00000

Source:

MEXICO CITY - A

EMMA - 39316

keel No.:

81 (97)

Side (s):_

1

Readability:

Good

Type

Radio/TV

Record Player

ment (specsty)•

Typewriter

Teletypeuriter

Reproduction

Machine

Motors Topecity):

Air Conditioner

Vacuum Cleaner

Machine Tools

Other Noise

(specify):

Static

Street Sounds

Side

AXULiN 2011

Dete(8) of Intercopt: 31 July - 2 Augs 1970

Roc'd as Prod. Unit: 17 August 1970

Processing Completed: 22 September 1970

Transcriber/Checker:

V.X.

Translator/Editor:

LoT.

Typist:

I.I.

BACKGROUND NOISE

Footago

(PortIOn

of tape)

Intensily and Amount

of Interference

REMARXS:

SECRET

---

## Page 14

14-00000

Source:

MEXICO CITY

Date of Intercepts

31 July -:

Reel No: 81(97)

August 2 1970

22 July 1970

Loud street noises. No conversation at beginning of reel.

Mr. and Mrs. KALINI exchange a few comments.

3 August 1970

A. KALININ

Bo KALINIRA

NO- IT'S BAKULIN

C. Valya (Valentin - Inu, posalbly SOROLOT)

¡D. Valya's vito

((Pootsteps, Iraguents of conversation at firet.))

B. end Do discuss the cust uf initresses in varlous stores

and where 1t 1s beat to buy a mattress. Bo saye, "My friend Slava

((Jau)) bought opa ((a nattress)) In How fork, but since they were

at the Un, all their furniture was bought at thelr own expenses.

tho trunaler/noving of their furniture ((probably baok hone)) was

froe. That mattress 10 just lying unused at the daoha. she doesn't

need 1to They don't live at the dacha. They're in rugoslavia now.

Her nother and father don't live at the dacha and 1t will probably

be ronted out. Il I gIve Slava 850. for 1t, she'11 bo glad to give

It to mo."

A, comments, however, that 1t makes no sense buying the

mattress Iron flava because 1t 18 Old already, the sprlago bave

rusted, oto. Purtbermore, sending the nattress ((now)) back hone

won't be expensive - "the distance is anall, and then by ship to

Leningrad. " 'He feels 1t'8 better to buy it here and send 1t.

Do suggests "wrlting to the diplomatio mall," but O. 88y8, "jo don't

have diroot mail; we have to write through MID. "

Do then talke about an employee ((unidentified)) who, in

answer to lena'e ((lnu)) query how she should correspond with:

Pora ((2nu)) had "sald in such & presumptuous tone — "You can stand

boing without correspondence for a Jear. "n D. leels the sane nan

had been uppet because he had not been appolated an offlola supervisor

(nachal'rik), but had said later, "What an I upset for?' II they

don't want se, so what!". In connection with the B. says, "There'e

sone sort of arrogance here; it'e naceBaary to stay ae far as

possible from 1t."

SECRET

---

## Page 15

SECRET

C. and D. ask that A. and B. ((presumably)) wilte a letter

to some acquaintances ((unidentified, probably in the Soviet Union))

and jind out "whether we can depend on them and if we are going to

stop for a day, how much this will cost approximately, and where

best 18 it to stay." Do adds, "I don't think it's necessary to

mention the nattress.. When we arrive there, we'll make arrangements

about 1t. Il 1t'8 no, then no. I'll manage very well. I have

two very good beda." ((Apparently C. and D. Bro departing soor.))

Do continues that her friend Shura (Alokeandra - Inu) wrote her that

she is frequently 1ll and 1t's difficult for her with only one

mattress. However, D. has room to aleep three, a divan and two bedo.

Il soneone vielte, "Valya ((her husband)) and I sleep in one bed,

hat 11 I'= sieb, I sicop ou the uires, muilo Tovio ilner son, probably))

and Valya sleep on the beds. It's possible to maneurer somehow. Il

wo had one bod and somone came to thalt, 1t would ba very diffloult. "

C. suddenly aake 11 they know a "hooligan" song, and at the

roquest of the women he sings 1t. All laugh, after which D. tolle

•d1rty joke. Agaln all laugh, After thie they oritiolse modera

youth. O. comments, "Baucation has a great influence on people."

Do sayo, "You know, whon I worked in (l ouT ?) departent/adalnatration.

there was a very pleasant engineer there. He was 45 years old. Ble

daughter finished the Medical Institute.. She went to work and

then all the patiente bogan to complain to the chles phylolar about

her rudeness. she started to be terribly rude at home. Then 1t

began, - she started cursing and hitting. They exanined ber and

she had something wrong with (1-20) and they put her in the lasane

abylun. Then periodically. she was calm, was at hone, and then

suddenly she again becase violently corse. She was 24 years old

but theis other daughter was 6 years old, can you 1magine?.. They

were afrald she would beat the little girl to death. If she was

home alone, she would almost beat her. to death. Can you Imagine what

a tragedy this 18? They gave her all kinds of medicines. We had a

privato/exclusive polyclinio; there were many high offlolala (svet1l)

there. Hothing helped her. They sald ((1t was caused by)), "Over

otraln.' A thinks that "people have becone weaker" now. But B.

Baye,

B. Vorochka, I think 1t's simply because there's more Information now..

SECRET

---

## Page 16

14-00000-

SEC001

3.

A. You yourself remember how much information we received at (1G)

and none of us went insane during the entire live yeare... At

the University you've got to consider 1t thie way, 11 five

persone ((igo nuts?)) during a session, that'a a saall curbs?.

B. ((1n81sts)) There are very many ((going insane)). I hate s

friend ((lenale)) who 18 a payohlatriet.. she told no that there

are many (inho are 111 -- mentally?), very nady.. Sonetimes she

doesn't know (thow to handle all hor work?):

1. ((jokingly)) Perhaps Information 1a affecting ne now and (20) 1n

¿ hospital? I haven't gone insane up to now, but perhape 1t

doesn't depend upon the amount of information, but. on the type

of Information. ((All laugh.))

I. Iã. Tolodya (ld.l), it was simpler previoualy. Il you keep

looking at such things ((possibly referring to TV)), you'll

have nightmares.

B. I only vatoh 'Jassle.' You knor, 1t's a doga. I 11ke 1t.. I

alwaya tEy to watch 1t and I'' always affooted by 1t..

Aor You know, I think we're espeolally affeated by it becauso we

know

the partloulars. That dog len't apeolally trainodi 1t

belonge to a lanily. And the mother of the boy 1a a houselfo.

They just announced that during ((ochool)) examinations, the

boy w1ll not bo photographed. There's going to bo a blatus in

the ((IV)) programs.

Ba Voroohka, are you going by car? You're not leaving soon, are your

Don't forget (l the box ?). Ire already packed the box.

Do

Do you have bores?

•B. I do. Valerka ((Inu)) left then for uo. Our carponter sade then.

A. I've been looked at those boxes. I think that I stay here for

four years, we won't be able to pack our baggage aocording to

the box sizes, but will have to do the opposite (lget boxes to

sit the baggage dimensiona.))

Ba You kon, we don't have so mich junk. la bought things, thinking.

((loud noise covers remainder of sentenco)).

A. I'm telling you, 1t makes sense to oTerpay for packing because

then everything will be in order.

B. We have (2-3G) - $750.

1. But our ambaseador (3-4G), more expensive, that's understandabla.

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SECREI

THANKE

But I'm paying 560 ((possibly dollars)) = only half.

B. (2-3G), 83,000. The only thing to that we have to pay for an

apartment there yot.

A. We had a car, absolutely at our own expense.

Do Tell me, why (26)?.

B. They pay themselves now ((unspecifled for what)). A woman went

by plane, she paid.

A. A year hann't passed yet. They pay from September, or something

Ilke that. I think they started later, alnost since January.

B.' There you are; (1G) arrived; (? ho loft ?) bie car there for

: BOme: reBBOn.

D. We don't have a car. Do you have a car?

Б. No.

D.. But he ((unidentified)) has one.

Do Thore are two care here for (2-30). Olog'8 ((1m)) car (1-20).

But I don't understand why it'e that way. Tolodya spoiled him

soandalouely. He's young and he drives a car, but youre older

and must...

A. His ulfo can't walk.

B. Too bad, let her nove her ass.

D. (3-40); there was one car, one for tuo people. (3-40). That

idle

(10) 18 horrible/terrible. Valerka's ((lnu))/was In the hoapital,

children

Valerka'a/ were with me. I wao working. Yorka ((1nu)) was taking

"oare of them. Ino little girle Iived with no. So he ((unidentifiod)

called him ((Valeria)) and sa1d, "Valera, put the car in fOr

washing and I'll pick it up. I have to have it clean." He

((Talerka)) came to Valya ((D.'s husband)) and said, "He didn't

oven ask how my wife 10.' Valera had spent the night next to

his wile lyubke who had just been operated on. They out out

hor glande under a general anesthetio; she was nauseous, but

he said, "put the car in for washing, I need 1t," or, "wash

the caron In such a tone of voice.

Such Impudence!

D. Yes. In general, his manner shown ((what he 18)). He wasn't

even interested in asking how his ((Valera's)) wife 10, where

the children are. That's unimportant to him. But wash his car

for. him, he needs 1t clean. I'll tell you, with suoh an

---

## Page 18

14-00000

5.

SECRET

impudent person you can only be impudent because they ((such

people)) don't understand.

A. You see, in principle, he was & lavorite/pet (Lyublnchik);

apparently neil ve thai way now.

D. But why do you think that he'll be that way now?

Because he is also a khokhol ((derogatory term for Urainian)),

(1-2G). ((Pause))

D. Oleg three weeks ago or more (2G)j he also knows how to be sick.

B. Oleg knows how and she knows how.

(They are possibly talking about 0leg HBSHIPOREHKO or 010g

SHEVCIBNIO, since both are Ucraintana, or aB: A. calle 01e8,

"Jchokhol."))

Do She was so (3-4G), turned about, and sald nasty things about me.

But outwardly she will chat and give a good Impression. I recall

when she came to the Embassy (3-4G).

B. What 1s she, (20)?

D. No, the was there (1-2G). In general, they scolded ((or, oursed))

and insulted her, and they scolded ((or, cursed)) Oleg... but

Oleg is taotless In general.

Ao. But he knows how to pretend to be tactful and courtaous.

Bo. He one said sone sort of thing - you and I were sitting on

the couch, I felt 80 (rawlward/unconfortable?) "I'n probably

10 years older ((than you. what right do you have to say such

thingo." ((B. sald to the man, probably the same Oleg.)) He

3a1d, "I was joking." I don't recall the joke, but 1t was so

stupid, with sone sort of vileness, that the joke was absolutely

Impossible.

D. M?I liked?)itvery much yesterday when Pavel ((Inu)) was joking.

A. Pavel also knows hou to Joke.

•((or, we))

D. They/went swimning. Tamara said, "I don't feel well, " and

because of that she couldn't go awiming, that's without a doubt.

de started pestering, "Girle, go swinning." He mere bothered.

Volodya didn't say a word, (?but he?) said, "Let's go swinning

or else we won't feed you at lunch time. And Pavel kept

Insisting. But Tamara said, "Why are you pestering us. Maybe

we can't go swimning." And Pavel said, "Ohl You're not at that

age!" Can you imagine? She stared at hin and didn't say a word.

---

## Page 19

6.

SECRET

C. And how did you understand it when he tore her bathing suit?

He care up and said, "VANOVSKIY, take away your wife's bathing sult

because all her measurenents can be seen." When she started

telling him off!!!

She really told him off. She's viclous; she geta wound up'

nonentarily. Ulsten, I'll tell you this facts wonen remain

women. (?Once?) she got a pitcher and l1ttle napking... Mava

pulls out the pitcher with the napkins and says in front of

everyone.

"What do you do with this?" She answered, "I wash

nyself!" Kostya said, "You fool! Put 1t where 1t belongs!"

Ilsten, strangers ((not identified)) were sitting there, can

you Imagine? And yesterday, well, all right, I'm older. Ratya

Le older, but Tamara 18 younger than I.

B. Tamara 18 probably 44. But, In general, that's not a subject

for conversation with men.

Do Any way, It's not that time yet when women have obenge of 1lfè.

I don't even know how old Ratya. 18. He was (? 50 gears old ?).

(They are possibly talking about Pavel IOVAILY, the chauffeur,

and his wife Yekaterina.)) No, you listen. He has the nerve

to ask, "Who wants to see him ((2nu))? ((Her comment to his

question)) "What are you? Are you the Secretary of the

Pirst Department, or sonething? What business le it of yours

who is going to ask for whom at the Bubassy?"

A.. Whom?

Do Well, when we arrived, he said, Who wants to see hinto I said,

"An acquaintance."

A. Guess who! ((they laugh))

D. No, I can't take him in such large dosesl. We had supper together

the day before yesterday when we brought the boss/bosses. And

Katya spilled wine on (KUZ'MINP). How he snapped at her!.

O. What happened there!

Do How he did snap at her. Tamara said, "such thinge aren't notsoed

usually." Pirst he stared at her. That's his way, to stare firet.

A. He first has to let 1t sink in. Then he neede contact.

D. I look, Katya was putting a whiskey glass on the table.. (?The

whiskey (lass was empty?), and then he really let loose.

B.: Oh! So you were there?

---

## Page 20

14-00000

SECRET

D. Nell, that vas the day before yesterday.

B. ilell, you should have said sonethine, about it. That's the version

/episode we were talking, about.

i. i's sorry ior Intya. Those things frequently affect her quicker.

She's simply affected more quickly by them.

B. Ida ((DIMINA)) was saying, "I came upset at something at Sashe

((DEMIN)), it was sonething he did, or had not answered properly,

and Katya said, "You see how spolled you are, while all of my

life I only see such thinge." When Ida started working, he

chewed out Katya together with (IG), saying, "Go work. How 18

It that Ida went to work and you're oitting at home? the wife

of an official went to work, but you sit at home?" He kept

picking on her until the wife of (?KRASHOVSKIY?) - there was

such a man here - until (?KRASNOVSKIY's?) Wife came and told

Ire about this and said, "Ira, speak with Semonovich ((1nu)):

so that he will call Pavel in and speak with him." ' And Katya

said, "Where an I going to work? I'm no good any more as &

doctor's assistant (lel'asher), and to go as a cleaning woman

Itsd1ff1oult /hard for me now."

Do Ilsten, of course. Tamara tells me that she 1a at the age when

1t's time for her to stop working as a cleaning woman. She has

to guard her health. Her heart constantly (Phurts?) her.

Bo Ho, really? Konstantin Nikandrovioh "(BOGATYREV)) saked, so she

even began working in a second place.

D. Yes? And how about that one ((woman)) who knows everything?

Is she working already?

A.. I don't know. Those problems don't bother me at all.

B.:: (3-46).

tAo. What's it to her. She can type on all typewriters, and with

touch typing. She can also work as a bookkeeper.. She can do

anything you want.

Bo Ilsten, and how 18 (?SHCHUCHKIN'S?) WIfe?

C. (?SHCHUCHKIN?) arrived and the first thing he did was to run to

ne to work. He didn't discuss anything with (ladya?), but

ran to me asked where he could get a job for his wife. And

that's with two children. They had five children.

B. Maybe they feel the wife should work so there wouldn't be more

---

## Page 21

SECRET

chillren?

further, he ran to the oifice, saying, "My wife knows shplish,

Spanish; she know the tinewriter.": Re ran around everywhere.

And finally he not her in.. And he's always around

the Ambassador,

and ever: thine. and he finally got her a job. The chilaren

hang, around in the imbassy and she works. Do you understand?

(Pind that's?) the First Secretary! ((Pause)) Vovochka, shall

we go ((procably by car))? I'm draggin you awey fron your wife.

((B. and Do chat about cookin? verious dishes for a while. ').

End of Recording

SECRET

---

## Page 22

DEPT. OF STATE TELEGRAM

MEXICO 4640

DATE: 21 AUGUST 1970

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: VISAS HORSE: RE. VLADIMIR BAKULIN....

---

## Page 23

DISPATCH

PROCASSING ACTION

SECRET

EUPRIS OR MOEXING:

Chief, SB D1v1610n

XXX

Cbiof, WH D1v1s100

MO BESEXING REQUIRIO.

ONET DIALIFED DESK

LAN SIICH INDICHC

Chio1 of Station, Moxico City 11

SERT ENDTOP AEGRIP

PYurly Daltriyevich BULYGIN (201-732764)

ANTION REQUEZID - REFERENXES

Roference: HMHM-17866, 5 May: 1970

lo No appreciato the Information forwarded in Reforence.

2.

concerning Subject's stay in Mexico, our sources have

reported the following.

Subject arrived in Mexiço on 7 March 1970

aboard Sabena 555 fron Brussels.

During his one month stay in

Moxico City,

he stayed

at tbe Hotel Agnes located at Calle Saltillo

Me?, Monice City.

Jünjoci dearied MexIco on & April 1970 aboard

A1r

Franco flight 700 for Hew York. LICALLA and LILYRIC first

reported seeing Subject at the Soviet Embassy on Monday, 9 March.

Ho was thereafter seen entering the Embassy almost every morning

botween 0900 = 0945 hours.

During Subject's entire stay in Mexico,

as mid seen most often in the coupany of Subject of 201-261813.

Por DEnDRIrE information, coupled with inforuation avallable in

station. filea, it 1a bolloved that Subject of 201-261813 possibly

functions. as one of the Deputy Rezidents of the AEGRIP Residentura

in Moxico City.

It 18 probable that Subject of 201-261813 wag the

Konico City AEGRIP cago

officer in this particular case.

Subject's

other contacts were Subjects of 201-850177 and 201-844388, both

1dont1f1od by AEMIDRIFP AS AEGRIP officers, and possibly could have

boon involved in the case as support officers.

Subject was also

1n contact with Subject of 201-814235, who 18 an AEGRIP officer.

3.

Subject was not seen.at the Soviet Embassy on 14 March,.

which was the originally scheduled meeting date with the LEASE

sgont. On Bunday, 15 March, LILYRIC reported that Subject entered

the Soviet Embassy at 1143 hours and vas seen leaving, alone, at

1432 hours.

There fas no LIlliTY source coverage on 28 March 1870,

which vas supposed to be the alternate neeting date with the agent.

&. Forwarded hereuith are negatives of photographs of Subject

takes by LIEMPTY sources.

GraCe E. PARMILANT

Attachment:

Nogatives h/w

la Plotribation:

CROSS LIFERENCE 10

0001261÷13

is copyin

261-

732744

- C/8B w/att b/s

1 - C/TH w/o att

DESPATON STADOL AND HUMANE

DATE

BARUN A

ИННА - 39258

A SlY 70909-261812

CASSAHCATON

MOS ALL NUMBER

SBCRET

201-732764

---

## Page 24

1O

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief, 8B DiPision

UPO.

Ch1e1, WR DivisIon

FROM

Acting Chios of Station, Mexico CIty fER

SANT RID'TOP AKRICK

GYevgonly Ivanovich PEDIT (201-163926)

ACTION REQUIRED, RUHRINKIS

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR PADEZING

NO INDELING RIOVIRED

ONLY QUALIND DISA

MICROLLA

Subjoct and his vile returned

from home leave on 17 June

1970.: Thoy had 'departed on home leave on 27 April.

2.

Returning to Mexico City with the FEDINg was Vladimir

velentisorich parturi,

in joas vid.

¿i valentin Veeilgerich

BAKULIN (201-261813), who 1e coming to spend his summer vacation

with his paronts.

•ACE E. PRALLIT

Dig - Cutton:

- C/SB

• C/WH

89 201-281813

25 copy w0.

201 - 163926

HHMA -39180

SECRET

file

301-2618137

No hE June 1970

201-163926

---

## Page 25

CEELE SEECETAEIAT DISSESIATIO!

TUEaTAT HOTGO

ANUANCE CEPY NSUER

B73_

DICERPI AY

"C TION

ACTION

156

PER.

SGEO LESSACE

TOTL COPIES TEE)

ROUTH'E 1U0:0S MHTURLE-GKEN EY

GHOUP !

Wilia Filics in)

825.116D N020 05219:=

26.66

[JSLOTTEN

HEPROSUCTION OF THIS COFY PROIULIIL

h.'oea.

Gies

Giio

CLACIN-Y TO CS FULNO..

. ₴

X-AEP TO CS FILENO..

O FuE RO

O METUAN TO.

FIS, VR C/BILSD, CHUB COL CEI2, DOP, ALDP, CElDO,

c/ISS5, c/c/T5, 6/E1/04/

SECR E T 202033Z MAY 78 CITE NEXICO CITY 3246

DiRECTOR QERSO MRGO TU TENT FOR YOpEraniC

RYBAT REDTOP AEMIDRIFF

To appropmate colsubjcet.

20HMK 087219

1 TORNET AND RECIIDATT DEDMIERED HEMIDRITF IN DEIAIL UN

SOVIET EMBASSY REFEREITURA 15 AND 16 MAY, RESULIS, WHICH HIGHLY

INTER STIIG, INCLUDED ROUGH SKETCHES AS VELL AS DESCRIPTIÓN OF

INTERIOR, FUNCTIONS OF EACH ROOL, AND LOCATION OF PERSONNEL-WITHIN

REFERENTURA. FOLLOVING ARE HIGILIGITS THIS DEBRIEFING, WITH EMPHASIS

OW THOSE POINIS WHICH HQS MAY WISH FÜRTHER CLARIFIED.

20 .ALL TYPING OF CLASSIFIED POUCH MATERIAL DONE IN ONE ROOM

IN REFERENTURA. ALL FOUR WALLS AND CEILING THIS ROOM COVERED WITH

LAYERS OF BURLAP, COTTOM, AND NYLON (FIRST TUO FOR SOUNDPROOFING,

HYLON FOR DEIERATION)• TIO OPTILA HAHUAL TYPEWRITERS USED, AND

OCCASIONALLY REINMETALL TYPEURITER USED BY AYBASSADOR'S WIFE

STORED IN THIS ROOM. ALL PAPER AND CARBON HAD IO BE ACCOUNTED FOR

TO ALEKSANDR KOZLOV, DEPUTY CHIEF REFERENTURA AND MID CODE CLERK:

FINISHED DISPAICH HANDED IO KOZLOV OR REFERENTURA CHIEF NIKOBAY

SOKOLOV, WHO PREPARED POUCK.

3. CAPLES DRAFTED BY HAND AND APPROVED IN DRAFT BY BORIS

XOLOMYAKOV (KGB REZIDENT) OR XONSTANTIN BOGATYREV (GRU REZIDENT).

SECRET

---

## Page 26

CACLE SECRETARIAT DISSE: NATION

PEACON JOT NOTIFINO

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

BY:.

DISSSA BY

ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO

• ATt.

PER

ESELASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

=...

j'us

(When Filled In)

MiLASOCING

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

Dres

ONO

CLARIFY TO ES FRENO.

X-PEP TO ES FRENO. -

FLE RIO O RETURE TO

ROUTING ANDIOR INITIALS-SEEN DY

BRANCH

FILE, VR

PAGE 2. MEXICO CITY 3246 SECRET

DRAFTS THEN HANDED TO SOKOLOV OR KOZLOV FOR ENCIPHERING. (STATION

CORMENT: AEMIDRIFE LOCATED KGB CODE CLERK IVAN KOKILOG diD GR

CODE CLERX VLADIMIR KASATKIN WITHIN CERTAIN REFERENTURA OFFICES.

HOWEVER, AEMIDRITE NOT PERMITTED ACCESS TO THESE OFFICES AND MAY

NOT HAVE BEEN AWARE OF FUNCIIONS OF KNOKILOV AND KASATKIN. STATION

ASSUMES AT LEAST SOLIE KGB AND GRU WESSAGES ENCIPHERED - PRESUMABLY

BY QUE TIGE PAD, AS AEMIDRIFE NEVER. KEARD ANY SOUNDS FROM THESE

ROOMS LA BEFORE BEING HANDED TO KOZLOV FOR REENCIPHERING.

1. SOKOLOV AND KOZLOW WORKED IN ROON FO WHICH AHIDRIFF HAD

HO ACCESS AND COULD NOT SEE INTO.. TO HER KHOWLEDGE, THIS ROOM

FUNCTIONED AS. DOCUMENT CONTROL POINI AND MESSAGE PREPARATION CENTER.

RE

OUT-GOING MESSAGES MIFERRED TO PARA 3 ABOVE TAKEN TO THIS OFFICE:

AND. ENCRYPTED AND TYPED BY KOZLOV ON WHAI TO AEMIDRIFF SOUNDED LIKE

REGULAR TYPEWRITER. AFTER MESSAGE TYPED IT HANDCARRIED BY KOZLOV

OR SOKOLOV OR BY ONE OF TELEX OPERATORS TO SHED OUTSIDE OF MAIN

EMBASSY BUILDING WHICH HOUSED TELEX. INCOMING MESSAGES WOULD BE

RECEIVED ON THIS TELEX AND HANDCARRIED TO REFERENTURA. MENDRIFF

HAS SEEN LYING ON DESK TELEX ROOM MESSAGES ENCIPHERED INTO GROUPS OF

NUMBERS AND LETTERS. SHE HAS ALSO HEARD TELEX OPERATORS (SOVIEI

WIVES COMPLAIN THAT WORKING TELEX. WAS HARD WORK, AND IF THEY MADE

MISTAKE

SECRET

---

## Page 27

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISTEHMATICH

MERSONiMOT POTEREn

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

LOTTED

DY:-

DISSEM BY

ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

AT:.

.z

PER

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SACLIEN

GHOUP I

'hen Filled In one none

REPRODUCTION OF THIS CONY FACINITED

D'DIX:

CLACIFY TO CS FA.E NO.

X-REF TO CS PAL NO. -

O FREMO O RETURN TO .

ROSTIÄG 1ND/0: MATULE-EELP: EY

BRAICH

FILE, VR

PAGE 3 MEXICO CITY 3246 SECRET

THEY WOULD HAVE TO STARI ALL OVER. ALSO HEARD SOVIES COMPLAIN THAT

IT POOR SECURITY TO HAVE TO CARRY MESSAGES BETWEEN REFERENTURA

CARD TELEX SHED.. TELEX SHED, WHICH FLUSH AGAINST WALL SURROUNDIG

EMBASSY COMPOUND AMAND THUS THEORETICALLY ACCESSIBLE TO NOSTILE

PENETRATION), CLOSED AND SEALED WITH SAVE WAS SEAL, WHICH USED TO

SEAL INDIVIDUAL REFERENTURA OFFICES WHEN THEY NOT OCCUPIED (REFERENTURA

IT SELF NEVER LEFT UNANNED). (STATION COMENT: FROM AEMIDRIFF

DESCRIPTION, AND NOT WITHSTANDING ALLEGED "SECURITY PROSLEM" OF

PHYSICAL SEPARATION OF TELEX SHED FROM EMBASSY BUILDING, STATiON

DOUBTS THAT ANY SENSITIVE EQUIPHENT LOCATED IN TELEX SHED. SINCE

ENCIPKERED MESSAGES -- APPARENTLY NOT TAPES -- CARRIED BACK AND

FORTH BETWEEN TELEX PD CODE ROOM, IT APPEARS LIKELY TYPING" HEARD

BY AEMIDRIFE IM CODE ROOM COMES FROM CIPHER MACHINE. TELEX OPERATORS

PRESUMABLY PUNCHED OUT ENCIPHERED TEXI HANDED IHIM BY CODE CLERK.)

5. CORNER ROOM, LOCATED NEXT TO CODE ROOM, ALSO OFF LIMITS

TO AEMIDRIFF, ALTHOUGH SHE ABLE SEE INTO THIS ROOM FROM CORRIDOR •

ROOM CONTAINED SEVEN OR

EIGHT GREY METAL MACHINES PLACED AGAINST

WALLS, WHICH COVERED BY SOUNDPROOFING MATERIAL. THIS ROOM OCCUPIED

BY ALEKSEY KLINOV, REFERENTURA TECHNICIAN, AND AEMIDRIFF HAS SEEI

HIM OPERATING ONE OF MACHINES, WHICH APPEARED TO BE RUWHING OFF

SECRET

---

## Page 28

CAELE SECRETARIAT DISSERMIATIDI

PRECHLOUT NOTIFES

ROVANCE COPY

ISSUED

BrI-

- AT:.

DISSEN Or

ETICH ENUT

PER

•240

ROTTED

- LASSIFIED MESSIGE

TOTAL COPIES

chOUr!

(When Fillid In)

RA 622 105% 0 25e c

10506

REPREVUCTIC. OF THA LOPY PROMISITED

WIDEXI

ONo

CLASIFY TO CS FILENO.

- 3

FILE, VR

ACTION NO.

X-REP TO CS FILE 10. -

FILE RIO. I RETURN TO

REUTIH##:80108 16T8125-530110Y

5

6

IRANCH

PAGE 4 MEXICO CITY 3246 SECRET

OOPIES OF PRINTED MATERIAL. PHOTO REPRODUCI ION ALS: APPARENTLY DONE

INTHIS ROOM. 1

AHOTHER LARGE ROOM IN REFERENTURA USED FOR READING ROOM.

WAS BROKEN UP INTO SEPARATE CUBICLES WHERE SOVIET OFFICERS CALL

OF WHOM HAD ACCESS TO THIS ROOM AND TYPING ROOM) WERE PERMITTED TO

READ CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS WHICH BROUGHT TO THEM BY SOKOLOV OR YOZLOV•

THIS ROOM NOT CONSIDERED SECURE AREA FOR STORAGE OR CONVERSATION,

BUT OFFICERS VERE PERMITTED TO TYPE IN CUBICLES. ROOM HAS ONE LARGE

WINDOW OF THICK FROSTED GLASS, WITH SMALLER WINDOW SET INTO IT.

SMALLER WINDOW SOMETIMES OPENED DURING DAY FOR AIR, BUT ALWAYS CLOSED

AT NIGHT.

7• REFERENTURA CONTAINED FIVE MORE SMALL ROOMS, WHICH ALVAYS

SEALED VIEN UNOCCUPIED ABSUHICH COULD ONLY BE OPENED BY KOZLOV OR

SOKOLOV IN PRESENCE OF OFFICER WHO USED ROOM. CAEMIDRIFF ONCE ABLE

TO SEE INTO LAST OF THESE ROCHS. IT HAD LARGE SIX-FOOT HIGH SAFE

AGAINST ONE WALL AND SHALL WOODEN TABLE AND CHAIR IN OPPOSITE

CORNER.) FIRST OF THESE ROOMS USED BY AMBASSADOR. NEXT OHE BY

KGB OFFICERS KOLOMYAKOV, OLEG NECHIPORENKO, AND YURIY KUPLYAKOV.

THIRD USED BY GRU OSFICERS BOGATYREV, BORIS CHUYKHOV, AND VLADIMIR

BARULIiO; FOURTH BY KHOKHLOV, YURIY ROMANENKO, AND OTHERS, AND

SECRET

---

## Page 29

CASLE SECRETAIAT DISSEMINATION

FIREMENGS, NOTFLO

ADVANCE COPY

• GOTTEN

_ AT:-

_ z

PER

CLASSIFIED DESCADE

SECUED

TOTAL COPIES.

GHOUR !

(lihen Filled In)

REFHODUCTION OF THIS COME ERCHIBITED

NDEX:

DrEs

[]ко

CLASSIFY TO CS FREIIO.

A-REP TO CE FILE NO. -

I RETURN TO

ROUTINO ANDIOR INITIALS-SLEND

5

• BY: -

DISSEM BY

.. ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

BRANCH

FILE, VR

PAGE 5 MEXICO CITY 3246 SECRET

LAST BY KASATKIN AND GRU OFFICER VLADIMIR I SERADZE.

8. ACCESS TO REFERENTURA CONTROLLED BY THREE DOORS, FIRST OF

WHICH NEVER LOCKED. SECOND OPENED BY ELECTRIC BUZZER IN RESPONSE

TO RINGING OF BELL CRING RED BELL TWICE FOR READING ROOM, WHITE

BELL THREE TIMES FOR ACCESS TO PRIVATE OFFICES. THIRD DOOR MANUALLY

UNBOLTED AFTER PERSON ENTERING IDENTIFIED THRU PEEP HOLE. 'ÓNLY PHONE

IN REFERENTURA IS NEAR ENTRANCE AND IS CONFECTED TO INTERCON SYSTEM.

(WHICH ENTIRELY SEPARATE FROM EXTERNAL SYSTEM).

9. REQUEST HOS COMMENTS ON ABOVE AS WELL AS GUIDANCE FOR

ADDIT IONAL ON THIS SUBJECT • ALSO REQUEST EXPRESSION

INTEREST AND FEASIBILITY TECHNICAL OPERATION AGAINST CODE ROOM FROM

LIMESA COMPLEX:

10.'

FILE: 201-835678. GP-1.

"SECREI

SECRET

---

## Page 30

•DISPATCH

PROCESSING ACTION

MAPKE FOR MOLLME

Chief, SB Division

Chief, WH Division

URNT REA TOP

CEl o1 Station, Mexico City BE%

(Station Contacts uith Soviet Officials in Mexico

MOR PFQUIRIO - MILLINOS,

References:

XX

ONEY OLAUTHO DISK

CAN JUDEL INDEYINS

AK ROSTUM

B.

НИНА -38435,

4 Zebruary 1970

DIRFCTOR 021485, 31 March 1970

1.

Forwarded undor separate cover are copies of several.

momoranda prepared by Station officers who have more than superficial

contact with Soviets in toxico City.

By virtue of joiniog various

organizations. such as ANCOSAD (association of diplomats below the

rank of Ambassador) and the Consular:Corps Association (or by

being invited to functions sponsored by the latter groun?, half

dozen station officors have. had a wide range of contacts

HHHARSHerS.

with

In many instances, such contacts have been one-tine

affairs,

but in some cases there wag sone pronise of a continuing

relationship which could be of value in the station's operational

prograa.

Most of these conticta

are in the early stages, and most

uill remain at a fairly quiet level. In sone cases, however,

contacts are with lilarshere tho are on our priority target list,

or who might soon find themselves on our priority list,

such as

AEJALISCO, ABPOLYP, and 201-305870.

Case officers in touch with

these targets are encouraged to keep the relationship alive as part

ofthe overall strategy planned agulust each target.

And, in the

case of those who are not targots, an existing relationship with

one of them might be parlayod into a relationship with one of the

targets:

This conscious effort to make contact with MHHARSHers was •

quito succeasful 1n 1t8 Initial stages. It seems to have run in.

Attachment:

16 Серн йс.

D

ribution:

C/3B "/att

4/8/c

C/iR w/att

u/B/c

escapy fled

74-120-118

DISFASON STAND AND

_AHMA- 38727 -

QASUKATION

Sile

201-261813

DAD

Nos run ApriL 1970

50-190

---

## Page 31

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

DISPATCI

NO NUMBER

SECRET

HM4А-38727

hourver, in the wake of the ArMIDRIFF defection,

Pantly also due to the operation against nestasiet!

and

: "In must

cases, our kHARSH frlends have suddenly hecome inaccessible.

There were three functions of the Consular Corps,

including the

annual election of officers, within about two weeks of Arkillft's

defection and subsequent press conference (which took some cracks

at the nembers.of the HARSH consular section, indicating that

they spent 90 percent of their time doing intelligence work and

very

little time 1ssuing visas).

The KHARSH representation in the

Consular Corps Association had always been a strong one, and

one ox.

their people was normally an officer (formerly AE) ILIARD, more

recently 201-305870).

Horever,

none

of them

attended any of these

functions, including

the elections.

had an iovitation

201-305870, a consular officer,

to the hone of Dexter i. KOSTEDT on 13 March.

Not only did he not show up, ROSTEDT was never able to get himan

the phone to confir the invitation.

A January volleyball match

between the MHHARSH Embassy and LNPURE was supposed to have been

followed by return engagenonts..

and he has suddenly lost interest in the follow-up.

201-305870 was in charge of this,

On the other

hard,

the MAHARSHers who belong to ALCUSAD have behaved more normally.

AEJALISCO, the KHARSH representative on the ANCOSAD board of

directors; took part. in an excursion to. Baja California 28 February

(NO LNPURE OIIICerS went) and was present with a half-dozen of his

colleagues at the ANCOSAD annual election lunch on 19 March.

(At the 19 Harch affair, AEJALISCO was uncharacteristically nervous,

but

would not say what was bothering tim.

the AESEASICK operation reached

It will be noted that

it denouement the night before.

3.

In support of the evidence above that the MHHARSHers. have

Bone into their.

shell, at least to sore extent, as a result of

AEMIDRIFF'& defection, LIBACON-l has reported that a TOY technician

with whom he had been

working as a translator, told him that 1t

was now nuch nore difficult to get auay

to go out on the town with

LIBACON-1.

he said it: was

really g--- on us, even we

then asked by'(Diers) are being watched."

due to AElIRIfE,

"who

general,

the line given out by shiaRShers asked about AMIDRIFF's dafection

sticks to the story that she was just a dumb secretary. who fell

1n love pith a doxican..

She not only knows nothing, she will

probably be vory sorry she ever had anything to do with that Latin

Lover.

4.

It is probable that the liHARSHers will slowly come out

of their aholls and will begin to circulate once more. If so, the

Station's policy of supplementing the SB operational program with

personal contacts vill continue, and, as stated, will concentrate

on obtaining this typo of contact with the selected targets. In

this way, our assessmeat and knowledge of the target can be

supplement-

od by 8 case officer's export assessnent. Headquarters will be

kept advisod of developuents.

Th18 dispatch was in preparation when Reference B arrived.

The assesSMents

of AEJALISCO and 201-305870, requested in Reference

B, are included

In the attachment. PCQs have been filled out in

certain Instances,

and & batch on AEJALISCO will be forwarded

The Spanish-language PCQ's-promised in Reference B will

welcone.

enceat P. la 3 3:13

10r/Joha A. PROBERT

SDINICATION

00-261.813

" PAGE NO.

VEE FREVIOUS EDITION.

---

## Page 32

SUBJECT: Vincent P. RIZZUTO's Soviet Contacts

Largely through the medium of AYCOSAD, RIZZUTy has met a

numbor of Soviets.

Mith many it is little more than a nodding

acquaintance, but

with some it is a little deuper than that.

The latter are discussed below.

It should

be pointed out that each

of these Soviets 19 very likely

aware of RIZZUTO's RVRoCk affiliation.

A. Valentin V. BAKULIN (201-201813) - RIZZUTO has known

him for over two years.

BAKULIN

is. a smooth-talking,

smooth-appearing

diplomat.

He speaks excellent Spanish. but has never been known

talk about anything more controversial

than the reather, the landscape,

or his family.

His wife is a pleasant woman, but she rarely

accompanies

him

on excursions.

He has a teen-aged son of whom he

1s very proud.

The son visited him in

the summer of 1969, and the

Bon exhibited

a pretty. good working

knowledge of. English, which he

bad been stulying in school in Moscow.

BAKULIN aupears to be a :

bit of a hypochondriac..

He complains often of stomach ailments,

and for this reason rarely takes a drink (at least in public.

In spite of his good Spanish and his very presentable appearance,

he does not seen

to mix much with non-soviets.

In common with

most of his

colleagues (notably excepting Boris A. CHMYKIIOV and

•Boris A.

KAZANTSEV), BAKULIN seems to prefer the company of his

own people, and does not go out of his way to talk to others:

When he

1S

approached; he

is very affable.

He never talks about his

job the is one of the

First Secretaries but does

not appear to have

any overt job), but did say once that he and CHMYKHOV could not go

on home leave at the same time because one had to cover 10t the

other.

AMCOSAD functions appear to provide the only occasion for

BAKULIN to appear in public.

When RIZZUTO has been to functions at

the Soviet Enbassy, BAKULIN has always been the proper host -- polite

and hospitable.

The real BAKULIN never shows through.

Since he is

a neighbor (same floor of same apartment building) as well as

frequent companion of CHUYKHOV, he is undoubtedly aware of the

relationship between RIZZUTO and CIMYKNOY, and he stays out of it,

probably on purpose.

only three

However,

B. times: 1

Yuriy CHERNYSH (201-825743) - RIZZUTO has met CHERNYSH

the firs two meetings being well over a year

apart.

all meetings resulted in relatively lengthy conversations.

CHEPNYSH nade no bones about getting, RIZZUTO's nase correctly

(most Soviets do not seen to bother and usually act as if they do

not remember the name). He will talk, intelligently, about almost

any topic, controversial of not.

He is very intense, as 1i he is

working hard to remember everything that was said, and every quirk

r.."..

ET

201-261813

---

## Page 33

Co

CAILE SECKETARIAT DESSELIRIATIO:1

PLASMINT NOTATED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE / TOTAL COPE?

SECRET

¡"GROUP I

so filled In)

ADVANCE COPY

issuco

PHPROCUCTEEN OY TUS COP PEOMDITEO

DREN YES

LINO

CLASSIFY TO CS FRENO..

- АТ!

NED 25 10 35721270

POUTLID RADIOR MISTIALS

DIASEM OY FE

SETIONS UNI

21 PER TOP ILI

O FRE RO O RETURI TO

FILE, VR DDR ADAR aAC C/CI G/WHZ

BRANCH

0182

SE CRE I 2523147. FEB 70 CITE MEXICO CITY 2565

DIRECTOR -

RYBAT REDTOP AEMIDRIFF FJPASTIME

REF: MEXICO CITY 2557 (IN 031735)

25F83 1H031930

10 PER REF, AEMIDRIFF CONTINUED REVIEW OF PHOTOS WITH HQS

DEBRIEFER AND LITEMPO-14. REVIEW OF 83 PHOTOS (INCLUDING WIVES!

DURING 2D AND 21 FEBRUARY SESSIONS PROVIDES FOLLOWING HIGILIGHIS IN

ADDITION TO OTHER INFORMATION WHICH WAS ALREADY KNOWN:

VALENTIN BAKULIN: CHIEF OF ONE OF AEGRIP SECTIONS+

EXPERIENCE IN LATIN AMERICA FROM PRIOR TOURS BRAZILE AND

ARGENTINA.

SOB

LEV GOLOUZOV: WORKS UNDER BAKULIN WHICH TENDS KOWFInA

AEGRIP STATUS PREVIOUSLY SUSPECTED). WHILE DRUNK

AND

INFORMED AEMIDRIFF SHE BEING SENT HOME.

TRISH.

SERGEY PROVOR OV: WORKS UNDER BAKULIN. AEGR

КАТНУ.

BiANA

NIKOLAY SOKOLOV: CHIEF OF REFERENTURA..

DARS

LYUDMILA SHAPOVALOVA: WORKS UNDER SOKOLOV

IN REFERENT UT

SERVED IN CUBA AT ONE TIME.

ATY

ALEKSANDR KOZLOUS WORKS IN REFERENTURA UNDER ESOROLOV. IE

CHARGE OF PHOTO PROCESSING AND MICROFILMING.

SEST OR NS AT

INTERNAL SECURITY AND

• AS WATCHDOG. HAPPY AND

RETURN TO

AGREEABLE PERSON

PAL. DISSEM

AYBAL

СЗ СОРУ

•Siener

---

## Page 34

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMIHATION

PLEADIN: NOTI'ES

NONNICE COPT

ISUID

SOTTED

aYs-

DISSER BY

ACTION UNIT

ACTION 110.

₴

PER

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

(inen Filled In)

993110! 4

HENROQUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIDITES

INDIXI

Dres

• NO

CLASSIFY TO CS ARE NO.

X-TEF TO CA FLE NO. -

O TILE RIS

O RETURN TO

ROUTIE AI:DIOR INSTIALS-SEES

- BRANCH.

FILE, VR

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 2565 SECRET

VLADIMIR ISERADZE: WORKS IN REFERENTURA BUT IS ALSO UNDER

ORDERS OF BAKULIN. TIMID, DOMINATED BY WIFE.

•YURIY ROMANENKO: WORNS IN REFERENTURN, FREQUENILY ACCOMPAHIES

PAVEL KOVALEV OUT AT NIGHT. DRINKS A LOT AND HAS TROUBLE WITH

WIFE BECAUSE OF IT.

YURLY KUPLYAKOV: HAS JOB SIMILAR TO KOLONVAKOV'S. VERY

IMPORTANT PERSON WITHIN EMBASSY AND HAS ACCESS TO REFERENT URA.

VERY REFINED ARD CULTURED. MANY LICHU CONTACTS THROUGHOUT

MEXICO AND ALSO CULTIVATES FRIENDSHIPS WITH DIRECTORS OF

MUSEUMS, LIBRARIES AND OTHER SUCH INSTITUTIONS.

BORIS CHMYKOV: VERY EXPERIENCED. SEEVS TO HAVE PERFORMED

ERILLIANTLY IN PAST WITH NO FAILURES, SOMETHING OF A LADIES®

MAN AND HAS, ON OCCASION, BEEN MIXED UP IN INTERNAL SCANDAL.

ENAMORED OF SOKOLINA. TRAVELS FREQUERTLY THROUGHOUT MEXICO.

VLADISLAV KORMUSHKINS AEKICK, SERVED IN BRAZIL, SEVERAL

MONTHS IN FRANCE AND FOUR TO SIX MONTHS IN ARGENTINA. SPEAKS

SPANISH, FRENCH ANO PORTUGUESE:

VALERIY KOSTIKOV: AEKICK

GEG KOROLEV: AEKICK

VLADIMIP MAKAROV: NOT CERTAIN, BUT PROBABLY AEGRIP. HOWEVER,

PREQUENILY ACCOMPANIES BOLSHAKOV. APPEARS COLD AID CRUEL. ONE

SECRET

---

## Page 35

BIT CAULE SECRETAMIAT DISSERIRATION

FENEUNIIAT NOTIMES

RONAHEE COPY

SLOTTIO

DISSEM DY.

1) ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

PER

CLASSIFIED WESSAGE

TOTAL COME

...

SECI

(When Filled In)

REMRODUSTION OF THIS COPY PROMIZITES

DYeS

CLASHIPY TO ES FLE NO.

X-RIP TO CA FILE NO. —

O FLE RO

I RETURIL TO

ROUTI:O ANDIOR INITIALS-SE

BRANCH

FILE, VR

PAGE 3 MEXICO CITY 2565 SECRET

OF AERIDRIFF'S WATCHDOGS DURING JANUARY 1978. SPENT TIME IN

RED CHICA.

IOAKIM BULAVIN: ASSIGNED TO COMMERCIAL OFFICE BUT DOES NOT

FHYSICALLY WORK THERE. PROBABLY WORKS FOR KOLONYAKOV, AEKICK

REZIDENT.

SERGEY VERBENYEV: RIS, SERVICE UNKNOWN. PERFORMS INTERNAL

SECURITY AND WAICHDOG FUNCTIONS:

VLADIMIR GORDEYEV: BELIEVES HE AEKICK WORKING FOR SOKOLOV

AND KOLOMYAKOV.

PAVEL KOVALEV: CONSIDERS HIM DANGEROUS. SPEAKS SPANISH

• AND ENGLISH ALMOST WITHOUT ACCENT. HAS MANY FRIENDS IN

GOVER NACION®

ANATOLIY STEKLYANNIKOV: BACHELOR. BODYGUARD FOR KOVALEV.

WORKED FOR SECRET POLICE IN MOSCOW AFTER THREE YEARS IN MILITARY.

WILL RETURN MOSCOS SOON.

KONSTANTIN BOGATYREV: CHIEF OF ALL GROUPS OF MILITARY INTEL

IN MEXIÇO. CAEMIDRIFF PREVIOUSLY INDENTIFIED CHMYKOV. AS AEGRIP

CHIEF. STATION BELIEVES CMYHOV POSSIBLY CHIEF FOR THOSE UNDER

CIVILIAN COVER BUT JUNIOR. TO BOGATYREV.)

OLEG SHEVCHENKO: SPEAKS SPANISH WITH ARGENTINE ACCENT. THIS

IS FIRSI TOUR IN LATIN AMERICA.

SECRET

---

## Page 36

CAPLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMIMATION

•PERSONUNIT ACTIRES

• ADVANCE COFT

ISSUED

'MOTTED

AT:

LASSIFIED LESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

(When Filled In)

FEFRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

WOEX:

ONO

CLASSIFY TO CS FILE MO.

X-RIEF TO ES FLLENO. .

ROUTILEO 11:D/OF: UHITI.LS-SICH B

2

DISSEM BY

aCTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

PEN

BRANCH

FILE, VR

PAGE 4 MEXICO CITY 2565 SECRET

VALENTIN LOGINOV: ALTHOUGH HAD AFFAIR WITH AEMIDRIFF,

RECALL SIX MOMTHS EARLY VAS DUE TO SONE FAILURE AID NOT TO

AFFAIR:

VALERIY SOKOLIN: RECALLED SIX MONTHS EARLY DUE TO SOME

FAILURE ALSO.

VIKIOR IVANOV: LIKED TO LIVE WELL. OWNED 27 SUITS AND OFTEN

CHANGED TWO OR THREE TIMES A DAY. GOOD FRIEND OF OCTAVIANO

CAMPOS SALAS, SECRETARY OF INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE. NOW IN MOSCOW

IN CHARGE EXPORTING FURS FOR SOYUZPUSHNINA.

BORIS KAZANISEV: SERVED IN CUBA WHERE HAD SOME PROBLEM OR

FLAP DUE TO DRINKING AND HIS CHARACTER. DOMINATED BY WIFE WHO

INFLUENCES MANY OF HIS DECISIONS. WIFE WORKS AS TYPIST IN .

REFERENTURA. SHE VERY JEALOUS OF HUSBAND, YET FLIRIS WITH

YOUNGER OFFICERS WHICH HAS CAUSED MARITAL PROBLEÇO.

FEDOR YEVESYEV: BELIEVES HE RIS, PROBABLY AEGRIP. BODYGUARD

FOR AMBASSADOR AND CURRENTLY FOR CHARGE. BELIEVES HE HAS NO

OTHER FUNCTION.

MIKHAIL DAVIDOVSKIY: GRADUATED MFA ACADEMY ABOUT THREE

YEARS GO, MEXIC IS FIRST POST: AEKICK. HAS ACCESS TO:

REFERENTURA. FREQUENILY ACCOMPANIES KAZANISEV AND YEVSEYEV.

SECRET

---

## Page 37

•CAULE SECRETARIAT DISSEPNNATION

PERCONUNT NOTIFICO

ADVANCE CODY

SISULO.

CUSSIFIED MESSAGE

• TOTAL COPIES

GOUTH:0 A:DIOR I41TPALG-BESM

6

ATI

REPHODUCTION OF THIS COMY PROMIDITED

INDEX:

UNO

CLASHFY TO CS FILE NO.

X-MIE TO CS FILL NO..

O TREND

O RETURN TO

DISSEA BY.

ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

PER

02

BRANCH

• FILE, VR

PAGE 5 MEXICO CITY 2565 SECRET

HAS MARITAL PROBLEMS DUE TO NEUROTIC WIFE AND FACT HE: HAS,

BY FORMER WIFE, EIGHT YEAR OLD CHILD WHO MENTALLY RETARDED FROM

INFANTILE PARALYSIS.

DMITRIY DYAKONOV: MEMBER OF CENTRAL COMMITTEE CPSU.

BELIEVES HE AEKICK. HAS MANY FRIENDS IN GOBERNACION AND RELACIONES

EXTERIORES. SERVED IN ARGENTINA AND BRAZIL. MORE REFINED AND

INTELLIGENT THAN PRESENT CHARGE, KAZANISEV.

* BORISKOL OMYAKOV: AEKICK REZIDENT, THIRED IN IMPORTANCE IN

EMBASSY. GRADUATE ACCOUNTANT, SERVED AS ACCOUNTANI IN

. USSR,

ARGENTINA AND FIRST TOUR MEXICO. RETURNED TO MEXICO AS REZIDENT.

VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD, STRONG PRINCIPLES. DRINKS MODERATELY.

CLOSE FRIENDSHIPS WITH ARGENTINE DIPLOMATS. FREQUENTLY TRAVELS :

WITH KAZANISEV, SOMETIMES WITH BOL SHAKOV.

YEVGENIY FEDIN: FOURTH IN IMPORTANCE IN EMBASSY.

FREQUENTLY WORKS IN REFERENTURA. HAS FEW FRIENDS WITHIN EMBASSY

BECAUSE OF FICKLE CHARACTER, AND FACT HE AT ROOT OF MANY INTERNAL

INTRIGUES. BY SENDING ANONYMOUS ACCUSATORY LETTERS•

VALERIY NIKOLAYENKO: AEKICK. IN CHARGE OF ASSIGNING

HOUSING AID FURNISKINGS. SPENT SIX MOUTHS IN CUA AS ENFLOYEE,

RATHER THAN DIPLOMAI, BEFORE MEXICO. ATTENDED MEA ACADEMY IN

MOSCOW.

2. FIF: 291-935679 GP-1 SECRET

---

## Page 38

14-011000

Notes from the Debriefing of MEMIDRIFF - 20 to 23 February 1970

123) = Valentin Vasilverich BAKWIN: Chief of one grour of military intelli-

sence. Speaks very good Spanish. Has experience in lilin Ancrica

having been in Brazil and Argentina before l'exico. Officially has the

position of Ist secretary in the Sovict Enbassy. Is cultured and

intelligent. Knows how to get along with any kind of person. Speals

Spanish and english. Prints little lecause he has a stomach ajlment.

4) Vera Ivanovna RAKWI.INA: His wife. Speaks very little Spanish.

clever by nature. Helps her husband a lot.

---

## Page 39

14-00000

DISPATCH

CASSENCATION

SECRET

Chief, SB Division

Chief, WH Division

Chief of

station,

#PREDTOP AEGRIP

Mexico CIty lS

Valentin Vasilyevich BAKULIN (201-261813) D-ut Elo 7 5

LTEDM RIQUIRED, REFERENCES

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO DIDELTAG FLQUIRED

ONEY QUALIFIED DESK

CAH JUDEE INDDONG

SHROFIA

Subject, accompanied by his vife, Vera Ivanovna,

returned

from home leave in

the USSR on 23 October 1969:

They trarshloù

or Air Franco flight dur. They had departed on home leave on

2 September 1969.

Their

son, Vladimir, who had spent bis summer

vacation in Mexico, returned

to Moscow at that time with his

parents.

Prace N. Farmlant

Tor John A. PROBERT

Dietribution:

• C/SB

1 - C/WH

CROSS REFRENT TO

ES CORY

DISPATCH STANBOR AND NUBBER

НИМА-38045

OASUACANON

BBCRET

6775:43; 5el

80125'3=4:39

DATE

30 October 1969

HOS RIE NUMBER

201-261873

---

## Page 40

TO

DISPATCH

Ch1of, BB D1v1s102

CULSIFIAMON

8 BC BET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARIE FOR DEDECEAS

NO EIDERS MOUIRED

OMLY QUALITED DESK

CAN WIDE LODING

BNCROFILAS

Chief of Station, Besico City

ДОКТ

REDNES

BunEer Vestions In BaXiCO fOr Soviet Chilaron

ACTION HEAVIED - RSFIRENCES

IFIRS BOrLBOURS BAZANTBEYA, daughter of Borlo Aleksandrovich

RAZAHTSEV (201-028975), Arrived In toxico at the on of June: 1959

to spend hor suncar vacatlos vith hor parants 10 Mesico C18y.

Irins, born 19 August 1953, sas la foxico City unf1l & Boptonbor 1989,

vien the departed for foscer.

Also ayantlag his sunsr vacationa with his parento saa

di, ioninorion sasull, son or Valentin Yasilyevich BArtl

(201- 361813).

ROtS STIRA BAd VlAdIMIT LOTUrIOd tO MOSCON ON & SOPrObAT.

Thay travelled in the copany of tha valentin vasilyouica

FAKULIE aed Buystoslav Fedorovich EUXETBOY (201-087322) faalllos,

VID. ENTO COPATEINS MOXICO On bona jOave.

10X/JOkr A. PROBEIT

700 84

Diatributions

& • C/SB

I OS RASHE IN 201-008925

Tile thi

201-261813

DAR

SA Databer 1969

nonded tron aracatis

doriediate

_HMA-97808

BECRET

---

## Page 41

14-00000

REQL:

ARTMENT OF STATE

SECOND REQUEST - Original

FOR BIOGRAPHIC DATA.

15. Cated 9/24769

TOr

VALOUTNIC FRAKLUN

'FULL NAME (Marlod

ASES, NICKNAMES

ENJE AID PLACE OF BIRTH

Feb 9, 1925

Moscow

¡MANITAL

SPOUSE'S NAME

STATUS

MOME ADDRESS

OCCUPATION

PREVIOUS EMPLOYERS AND FORMER ADDRESSES (Approximorol

SEX

CITIZENSHIP

Soriet

MAME AND ADDRESS OF PRESENT

EMPLOYER

120 k

Second Secretary of tha Joul t Embassy to Mexico

Aliens to transit the US enroute to Mexico:

Accompanied by wife - Vera Sept 27, 192.7

MascOu

REF

11/5/9

OFFICE

Visa Uffice

DATE

9/24/69

NAME OF. SUBMITTING OFFICER.: . :

SCA:V0: 3:Muncm

FOR USE OF OTHER OFFICE(S) OF TME DEPARTMENT-OF-STATE

• FOR USE OF. DEPARTMENT OF STATE ONLY

TYPE OF: DEPARTMENT PROGRAM

BAKUNIN, Valentin V.

¾. A HOV 1369

for information concerni

Subject you are Referref

to C5C6-3/211,448 dabeal

2. July 1962, Subjeet: BAKULIN

Valentin Vasilyevich which

was preedondy sent to

aux. Dept.

12/11/69

SC

---

## Page 42

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM

DATE: 23 SEPTEMBER 1969

MOSCOW 5167

UNCIASSIFIED

SUBJECT: VISAS BEAR - TRANSIT TO SOVIET EMBASSY

MEXICO

---

## Page 43

FBI DOCUMELT

LANDING CARDS

DATE: 19 SEPTEMBER 1969

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: EAKOULINE, VALENTIN VASILIEVICH

---

## Page 44

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM

MEXICO 4772

DATE: 29 AUGUST 1969

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: VISAS HORSE VALENTIN EAKOULINE

---

## Page 45

DISPATCH

CLASSIICATION

SECRET

Chief, SB Divisien

Chief,

_WH Division

Acting Chief of StatioR, Mexico City

SEN REDTOP NEGRIP

Home Leave of Valentin Ve BAKULIN (201-261813)

ICITON REQUIRED - REFERENCES

8x

PROCESSING ACTION

MARIED FOR INDEXING

HO INDECES REQUIRID

CAN ADGE INDEXING

AKROFIN

Attached are the Us transit visa requests and photographs

of subject, his wife, and son who plan to leave Mexico on 2

Seotember for Moscow.

Also traveling with then will be the

daughter of Boris A. KAZANTSEV (201-028975) who bas spent the

summer visiting her parents.

2.

The group plans to travel via Aeronaves le liexico to

New York on the second, continuing via Aeroflot to Moscow on

4 September.

Drigmendi

10г/ногaсe E. PRALLETT

Ataschment:

Visa requests b/u

Rakelia (adultiphor stacred in 318/15 i

BISCIGASIA+B

pared falled ae?.

Ramatieva s photo dent to

Distribution:

C/SB w/att h/"

- C/₩H w/o att

L Att

MiCROFILMED

SEP 1 0 1969

OCE.MICRO.SER

10512183153:127

DSPARCH STAZOL

DAIL

201-028975

HMMA-37770

CASSIFICATION

SECRET

28

August 1969

KOS ALL NUMBER

201-261813

---

## Page 46

PHOTOS

---

## Page 47

14-00000

..:"

3P

8/29

20

•NE

Yet

чої

No. 241

La bmbajada de la Unión de Repúblices Suciaitatas So-

viéticat saluda muy atentamente a la Embajada de los Bota-

dos Unidos de América y tiene el honor de solicitar que se

sirva extender las visas de tránsito en los pasaportes dip-

lomáticos del SI. VALENIIN BAKOULINE, Primer Secretario de

la Embajada de la URSS en SéxiCO, ! su esposa VERA BAKOULI-

NA con su hijo Vladimir,

nacido en 1954, Y. Srta. Irina KA-

ZANTSEVA, nacida en 1953.

Las personas mencionados jalen de México a Nueva York

illa 2 de septiembre ce 1969 por la Cla. "Aeronaves de s€-

xico" y van a continuar su viaje rento a diosco el día 4 io:

mismo mes por la Cla rAerorla="....

La Entajoda di La URSS agradece de antemano la aven

Ción que la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de Amáricr. tenla

a bien de prestar a esta solicitud y aprovecha la opo-turi-

dad para reiteçar las seguridades de su más alta y disti?-

guida consideración. Fif

México, D.P., "/'" de agosto d= 1969"

A LA BABAJADA DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS

DE

AMERICA

MICROFILMED

SEP 1 0 1969

DOC. MILNO, SER.

g/2b

S CORN

H/wAlt Ite

HAMA: 37770

201÷261813

de:

4.94.

---

## Page 48

14-00000

MARLOIN

онят

DOCUMENTO DE MAN

Veodimor

escperte deplein stice

DESDENOA

cal. Zamora #69-401, México, 18. X.F.

PROLA Y LIGAI DE MICIMIENTO

ANO

CATIO OJOS

ESTATURA

30

ALIDAD

nes 1950

1TRI

BILO

: 0тd

SEIO

sonado po la pr

es indisblo

Territio po la zi

ROLESIOn

ue del

la,plematier

de is no du parisi o toca de

Ta нашто

a cabre y restendien.

o radierzad lon brande

entral,o, i,1.49, sa

transito

Berrile

conde preta por to Otras Cosale do lo ti o. t5 +5-258 542938)

что вороти

1 ДД. 07-0183.11

: Ci

APELOO.

SEGUNDO NOMBRE:

pisoperte diplomatice

So l. Zamana #69.Ur/, México. 11.4F.

POMA Y LUGAR DE MACLMIENTO

MES

DIA

27.

LUIDAD

AÑO

igit

SEMAS

fies

SEXO

$8:

ESTATURA

PROTESION

diploinatica

acaba el parrados di

DURACIOR I PROPOSITO DE ESTACÍA EN LOS ES LEI

contrade - 2,9651

se.t'ide - 1.6.69

tralisito

de estrata la los dero po

seroada que barraço parte,

da la 8 08.

+-485-257 13RAISK

a 89-110

Valentin V. BANCILINE

УЕСИНОО МОМЕЯ

DOCUMENTO DE VIAN

pasepeste diploinatice

ro esf Fardona #E9-4ç1, México 1!, L'F.

"гона у мол ОЇ ЛАСі?!

9355

iMoscei

g

PAES

ESTATURA

2

18÷5

SEFAS

oslaa.diplomal.co

intreda-2969,59:2.9-4.58:

-transito

1U0 o el taqu el par la entrada se descato

I aten

• en si premaria

8014475-237080039

Ronas Apianad

---

## Page 49

APBULIDO •

мамене

KAZANTSEVA PRINA

PENDENCIA

FECHA Y LUCAI DE MACMIENTO.

CARELLO

OLOS

STADE

DVDD

ESTATURA

SEXO

PROVESION

D м

8.

deprematica

DRA

-13

DOCUMINTO DE VAI

pasagarte deptisstied

: Merico, 11,A.F.

MES

ANO

ITez

SEMAS.

DURACION I PESPOSITO EN ESTUAÇIS EN LOS EL 50

entrada-2.9.69, sofrra -4.9.19

_transite

brado na desatro çõe

ho rico ercariande

Харя-

a Comandar on la i .

2-67 TS-357 cRessis

то вероот

201-261813

---

## Page 50

14-00000.

Ilst of Sovlets In Mexico passed out to all Case Officers on 27 Aug69

BAKULIN, Valentin Vasilyevich

Official Function: First Secretary (Political)

Wife: Vera. Ivanovna

Residence: Zamora 69-401 (Condesa.).

Сат:

38 DC (69 Green Ford Torino GI)

Intel: Statue: Koown GRU

Jaut ir. Mexico: Nov 1959 - Jan 1964

Сійс:

aMCOSAD

GRU Case Officer who during first tour in.

Mexico handled two double agents.

One was an

LNERGO agent of whom he requested US Army

aanuals and info on US Army bases. RVROCK

agent was used in Us for locating dead drops,

meeting sites, and to mail letters. No info

se Intel activities on current trut-10.0- 39-

to AMCOSAD and has taken repres. ""'-dunal trips

on behalf of Soviet Embassy, like to Veracruz

to meet Soviet oceanography ship.

Little known

about work within Embassy... Speake good

Spanish and has sone Mexican friendo. BARULIN'O

u1fe alternates with KOLOMYAXOVA as COumercial

Office bookkeeper.

P-6059

---

## Page 51

14-00000

SECBEI

• JULY 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: Valentin Vasilyevich BAKULIN (P 6059)

On 26 June 1969, LILYRIC reported seeing BAKULIN enter the Soviet

Babassy in the company of & young man whon LILYRIC identified as BARULIN'a

son. The BAKULINs have one son, VlAdimir born 30 Tunaury 100k she 1e-

presently studying in the USSR. Vladimir was in Mexico City vialting

his parents in the summer of 1968 for summer vacations. There is no

Indication that BAKULINs son 18 again in Mexico visiting. Nonetheless,

LILYRIC reported thia young man as BARULIN's son.

ghfa

8. 6057

"SECBBI

---

## Page 52

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM

MOSCOW 2658

DATE: 11 JUNE 1969

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: VISAS BEAR

---

## Page 53

=

SA/s

5475 S3:

in Can.

sister/

f-2183

2.235

3 liaz. 1903

,12683

RECORD

12468

SUPP BCT:

le0biD trip to Crinuanua and vinasloa, 25-27 april to

sy i1fe and I and irs. Ll Splait vere til only scericans:

among the

CO ¡COSiD members io flew to Chihuanua on 25 april

and thence

as in the attached itinerary. Participation vas heavily

Festern European, tith reiatively few Latin Americans and surprisingly

only. three

Soviets (all sith lives): CHUTKHOV, POVORO%, and BAkULl.

Otter Bloc types vere LUlAS¿ (soland) and DOSAI (Hugary), both vith

"wives,

No Cubansz. The trip.. was very interesting, and a resourding

success.

2.

Is usual, my corversations with the Soviets dian't amount

to much.

lone of the wives tad anything to say, and tiey stuck to

eachother

11ke glue. PROVOROV (P-2183) speaks only when spoken

to and eve: tien he says nothi:?. I don't kron why they serd hir on

these things. BAKULIN (P-6059) is a real sorboth arti cle.

He mixes

well, specs exeellent Spanish, but never discusses anytning

controversial--the weather, the scenery, etc..

Is CHU cf Chira

told me that lirs. FakUll!: is a very inteliigent and well-read vonan.

(P-6235)

My buadly

CH.YKHOV/was of course kall over the lot. he is poruiar

andfix charing but rooody has te faintest idea what he is talking

about because he seaks such ariul Spanish. He vasn't up to his usual

siress tricks of pouring dri nis for everybody. The three Sovs

actually

tere quiet and well-behaved this time, probably because

they were

greatly outnuntered and all had their wives along. Except

when Chilles was going around making poinüs, they stuc. pretty

nuch

together.

3.

ned a few brief con ersations with CHAUNaiV on Fricay,.

but ir. Cit was nistarzet for that evens. The tens and

Cils shared a table for dinner, ard r Giu reported the conversation

to me id

great decail the follong norsi:g on the train. The rain

topic of

is conversation wad the Cinese-Soviet corder dispute,

---

## Page 54

and Chu took great acligho in teliing CoiTy that the coviets iu! ld

have buen better via if they hed polited GiliG to stay in gua

Put in Chira. Conovisa coint seeed to be that the dispute

void eventualiy be settied.. le is a groat one for a wing oil on

troubied laters, no latter there they are. tr. Chi said tet CHikHOV

a: no:i only seels hit out on occasions iice this, tere suma sone

sort of dimloratic function throus then together.

he never rakes

a lunch date. Chi believes that this is in lire:iti: Soviet policy,

wich is to talk to Taiwan jount governient represe-Tatives ithout

being sxciriconspicious about it. (ChitoV sat rest to 51ll MIILS

at the Foreien iinister's lunch for the & COSAD funta Directiva ur:

23 Arril and spert nost of the time talking acout the saie topic--

or at lease Miles cras chronas dat haras callig about.y.

didn't see much or CY: ON on the trair ride on Saturday

The lias in

the other car, andI didn't. care to risi life and linb

to pass inol one car to the other). At one sight-seeing stop

I took a picture for hi: (vith his caneral of him pretending to rusi

his wife

into the Barranca de Cobre. I lept telling them to back uc,

.....

but they

didn't

go lar enoggn. Dinner wes rather late that night (2330

сивцы, сітукої

hours to

the exact)

din't sow up. CyMiNOV clained that sie was

tired and

not

hungry, bit I iorder if he just boid her to stay in

her room.

I was his target for the evenig..

He sat rext to me (re

were at long tables) and as he was at the end I was his only, a nver-

satio: partrer. All I got out of 1ù sas a strainedt left ear.

The conversation rarely got into serious topics (once he said te

were unking good propaganda in Carchosiovalia, te which I reclied

that crogaga. da was hardly necessary since the facts speak for them

selves.

he sinply shrugged atthis and ca ged the subject.) le also,

apropos of

nothing that I can remember, started taiking of & SORGE ard

spies.

I went along siti the gag and told hin he'd better leave his

camera behind when he we went to lonolobaare or he'd be accused

of spying

on the port facilities.

This was goid fer a few chuckles.

He has brought un this topic before, and I can only assume it's is

way of te

ing me that he and I each

Ku-sex weire in the sa. e

---

## Page 55

14-00000

-busiress.

He also told ic that hold veen in l lew Yor!: once

severei jears ago on a courior tria to thi Soviet Ull mission..I

didn't rectly miers'aid too point de his strage ve ala clains

to be stucvirg English several hours a week with firs. KiPLiarov.

I dian's e test iis inglich, which cai only be verse than nis asparis,

if that'spossible. He will be going on home leave t'is sumer

and will return for at least antager year. CYNoV had ro real

explanation for thefact that do jany soviet resul rs (freeloaders)

were missing fron this trip. lie said that MAziTSaV. was ir Guadalajara

on business, and that the otiars, Lice KUPLIAROl, jast coulda't gef

se away (LIE: VOY indicates trat KOLUMIA: OV and PRO. HODKO canceled o't

at the last minute, reason nou statedi.

5. [OSAI (P-12487), a very pleasant person, as is his rife,

is about to leave FCS. His wife is dleaving in a ronth, and he vill

foilow a sunth after that. They both clain to be looking forward to

the teturn, although a more completely Westernized pair of Hungarians

I have never sein. I can only assme they expect another tour abroad

evertually•

6. LIKASZ (P-12468) denoistrated why Polack jokes are so videly

told and believed. The are plane was hot when ve got on it, ard he:

proapoly tok off coat, tie, and sirt, asd sat there in his unders irt.

Ill sure if he'd had a beer can he would have sarahariit crushed it.

with one hand and thron it out the wirdow wile flying at 18,000 feet.

7o PARRE, the Gerian, g,oved why Gernans are still beloved

throughout the sorld. "onenow they were not called by the hotel on

Sunday norning. They woke up on their on in rienty of time, but

in typical kraut fashion sat in their roum vaiting for the call.

By the tile they figured the call light not come, the bus was ready

to zeave,

so they got no breakfast. They got on the bus, vitert o

to Topolobaipo and rubber-necked vich.

the rast of us, an then

announced that they were going to stay there to have breakfast.

Soneone offered to digreshen to a rerdeze us point to meet the

bus, but

even li tir that we had to wait a good half hour. Tiey got

---

## Page 56

14-00000

"or the be pliasantiy burping and picring their teeth

ard sat do:r.

without a surd of apology. The oniy thing missing from this picture

was a pur e rade out of human sin for luce lares.

E. donared a taxi irca the alrcort suriay evening iata the.

tho Frenc

• wuples wo were along, wio vere ansious to jet back ard

ciseiê tine

ejection results. They were pulsing forDeGaulie. I onder

fow much longer thall be here.

IPK

• Vincent P. hiszuto

---

## Page 57

14-00000

CONTACT REPORT

SUBJECT

: BESABER (P-8777)

DATE, OF MEETING

: 27 February 1969

: 8-6054

...l. In resporse is a phone call from Subject, I met

him. from 1515 to 1545 at his hotel..:

2. Subject told me that he's on the verge of bankruptcy

and thai this time He's not kidding. He has been unable to

pay his employees their full wages and, recently, the news-

papers have begun attacking him as a foreigner, exploiter

of workers, etc. He seemed exceptionally cheery in spite of

the gloomy prospects and I indicated that I feel sure He'll

figure a way out of his problems. His one possibility is to

get the money he needs from "Baby" but the price is too

high: him. "Baby" would like Subject to divorce his wife

which he refuses to do.

3. The main thing on Sabject's mind was that he had

a VIsit from Valentin BAKULIN (P- 605% ) on Saturday,.

22 February, at the factory. BAKULIN brought Subject a

bottle of vodka and he bought about $600 (pesos) worth of

Subject's products to send back to the USSR. He apparently

sent

some previously and he said they went over so well

that he wanted more. BAKULIN came with his wife and with

another Soviet couple but Subject didn't know their names.

BAKULIN said he's going to send Subject some little wooden

p-6a35

dolls. BAKULIN brought regards fron CHMYROY and from

LOGINOV/ BAKULIN didn't have a card to leave with subject

ec: P- 6601

Fill:

P. 5777

201-261813

---

## Page 58

Erg.

so he wrote his name and

address on a scrap of paper for

Subject which Subject would like to have returned.

Xeroxed for BAKULIN's and Subject's file.

In subjegt gave me a letter he had just received from

Wlodzimierz

STRZYZEWZKI, the mysterious Polish pho ographer

who had turned up unexpectedly at Subject's house (see

Contact report of 22 0c5 1468). Enclosed were a couple

of photos he'd taken of Subject and his family. Subject

couldn't understand why the quality Is so bad considering

that STR was passing himself off as a professional photog

and was loaded with equipment. Also interesting is the

fact that the letter arrived very soon after the visit of

Whet

groused about never having received a letter or the photos

the STR had promised. Subject is sure that MAJ must have

sent a telegram to Poland telling STR to get on the stick.

Timothy M. ARCHBOLD

P.S. I told Subject to direct his atention toward BEPAR

(P-6601) as soon as possible. I suggested that he might

arrange to be introduced through MAJ on the pretext Subject

had mentioned once before, 1.e., Subject's interest in seeing

some of Subject's grandfather's music presented in Mesaco.

He thought this sounded pretty reasonable in view of the

rapport he now has with MAJ while having no other natural

entree to BEPAN.

---

## Page 59

14-00000

DISPAYCH

630?ü7

Cravi did nuttie

12:1-30120

10. D02XX6 12032221

2701: Cued, 10601v00105 11

27103: ChioR 62 Concrea, K5xkdo City

28.202

2UD320S:

Lorrariod logowith are voice samples of the Soviots listed.

in toxico ca

word D0S in

tie:

voico surpics vero cut by toughes d. LaDiess.

1.

talent

VOLU

ciljovich EaT: (201-201913) and wifo,

2.

Brand Alcansdrories 25827 (291-021460) sad wite,

Laitya: 2402220723

D. 201102. Gorgeyarn: SauRUCSONS (1110 02 203-439115)

Coarad1.

ROViCE MONER: (201-222607) ard VirO, intonina

Vasilyova:

S.

10.

LEISa AndROTOVIa IVATOVA (MiIC Of 201-245351)

Mias EaRaCho HELOVA (ile of 201-920725)

Do:is Forlonics KOLORRaCT (201-107050, 22d wiic,

attachnent:

icice saaples a/s

Distribution:

₴

- C/ee w/act 2

2 - C/h2 w/u att

Chroco 1/0

att

340

2

it

3

23

.1

1/0

iti

att

wlanit

ail

"fir

nt!

wir

EEEI1-36420

-SICT

10 Februcry 1969

Individual 201s as

IC/SB Grace 1. PRAISi

Aines

.C/ IC

Francis J. COTer

M.C.c.

CASTEr EN

PAGINE

ise

CONTINUED

---

## Page 60

overreai

6O:HM14710:0=

2ü L0.

Parents:

Macecide Vanderovla

15.

1Ữ.

17.

Mans Alekseyevne 122202374 (202-601660)

RAdOlE IVOROVICH LABUNE: (201-100000)

Xual: Woodlyevich ROadiO (201-057C92)

13.

budard Antoigerial Dualdo: (201-220209)

19.

Valoisy Vindinizovich SORustr (201-790795)

20. ADAnA A201ban220722 SHORITA (Nife da 202-220055)

21. Miovdiva do MaRan (vide or 201-193069)

2.

I' 1s roguented that cuca voice samplo be filed in cach

Cortet's loadquarters 20% 1112.

PAGE NO

SEEPiNG

LEONINUCO

Far: 24

---

## Page 61

Prepared by Douglas J. FEINGLSS in January 1969

Shoet sketches and personal impressions of the Soviet bibassy

peisonnel in lexico City.

BAKULIN - P- 6059

•Valentin Vaallyevich BAKULIN, 2nd Secretary, has a pleasant and

cultured voice. He seems to be quite happy with his wife, Vera

Ivanovna, who has many women friends with whom she does a lbt of

windnu abapping. annuliN la not known foe any outstanding vices

and 1s well liked by others.

His Spanish 1s quite good.

---

## Page 62

CABLE SECRETARLAT DISSEMIMATION

PEASONURIT NOTIFIES

AVANCE COM

ISSUED

BLOTTED

SEIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES Z1

GROUP "

SECRET

(When Filled In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

INDEX: O VEs I NO

CLASSITE TO FILE NO-

X-REF TO TILE. NO..

FiLE RIO [RET. TO

INFO

SEINE AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN EY

10

OESTROYD SIG.

Dissen er 26

ACTION

BRANCH

WH

RID COPY

117

SECRET 242245Z JAN

SBS

69 CITE MEXICO CITY 8852

.,.

DIRECT OR

24 Jan 69 IN 7 9 1 60

REDCOAI

1o REQUEST HQS RESOLVE OWNER SHIF-REGISTRATION OF LATE

MODEL WHITE CHEVROLEI 1968 TEXAS LICENSE PLATES

GVP 583• BELIEVE OWNER IS RESIDENT OF SAME BUILDING AS SUBJECIS

OF 201-268115 AND 201-261813.

20 FILE: 201-268115 AND 2B1-261813

Bakulen

SECRET

---

## Page 63

SUBJECT! Valentse Villyovich BAKULIN (201-261813)

HAN 16540, 22 August 1968 roquested the Station to underteke

a systonatio and 11 depth offert against the Soviet officials

Ilotad 11 soparato conor attächment. "

Ona of the offlosals Isited in the attashrant 1s Subject.

The elepatch 1e fllod 11 RIDTOP OPS MIXICO 1 Jan to 31 Poo 1968

F1lo # 74-222-718

• 1120d

---

## Page 64

SECRET

(mhen

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

MALY8T

DATE PROCESSÃO

8. CROSS ARTERALO TO SNIB PILE

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH OR SOUNCE DOC, SYMBOL 4O.

т. доивсь спуртомим а. Дата оГ Інно.

O. DIRBRMIMATED IN

TI. DATE

DOCUMENT

DISPOSITION

TRANSEERNEO TO

RI fILE MO.

PERLINENT INFORMAT 1QM

в. DATE

EVALUATION

BAKULIN, VALENTIN VASILIYEVICH

201-261813

SEX

DOB ?

CIT. ?

OCC ?

SECOND SECRETARY RESIDENCE ZAMORA 19-

401. CAR 24

DA

050-008-010

HMMA-33844A01

1à JAN 68

R 6801220867

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201

261

813

867 80e

SECRET

(8.88)

---

## Page 65

14-00000

PATCH

FROUSSING ACHION

SECRET.

MARKED FOR IDLYI

Chief of Station, Mexico City

NTO.

NO INDEXING RIQUIRED

JUNIY QUALIND DISA

CAH JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

Chief, SB via Chief, KH

WHO REDIOT

MICROFUM

Soviet Contacts in Mexico/Valentin Vasilyevich BAKULIN (201-261813)

MITH KEQUIRED - RIFERIMCES

REFERENCES:

A.

B.

MEXICO CITY

3074

HMMA-31320, 13

February 1967

1967 was reviewed

With Subject's PCS return to Mexico, the SPR prepared in early

and the following Headquarters traces on

his contacts were developed for incorporation into Mexico City

Station files and possibly further investigation as warranted:

Contact No. 6 - DI. Ricardo ALVAREZ del Castillo

Subject has 201-242295. On 6 July

Subject applied for a U.S. visa.

He was

reportedly involved in negotiations with

the Soviet Embassy concerning the purchase

of some paintings.

Contact No. 21 - Fnu FORTINO - Possible traces as follows:

1. Uttavio MONTINO,

born & January 1923

at Rossano, Cosenza, Italy.

2. A Joaquin FORTINO aka Fortino JOAQUIN.

Mentioned in: TMM-2056,

Page 11.

(This

• document not locatablr: in Headquarters.)

3.

born 1905 at Torino,

Piarina Attended Vienna Peoples® Congress

Italy.

In 1952.

4.

Serban FORTINO (201-279767), born 1924

in Rumania.

braduate of University of

Bucharest Medical School. Reported to

be disaffected and very unhappy in Rumania

1Д 1960.

Contact No. 32 - Raul LOPEZ Calvillo - Possible daces as follows:

1. A Raul LOPEZ Coutino, employee of the

National Railways of

Mexico who has a

brother, Pedro, who's a Communist and

CS COPY

201-261813

OSPATCH SYMBOL NAD NUMBER

HNMW - 159 42

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

14 November 1967

HOS FRE NUMBER

201-261813

1 - 5B/0/WH

1 - SB/CI/G

1- WH/1

1-RID

OFFIC

SB/O/WH

ORIGINATING

ТУРІТ

*Diana DavisDD

COORDINATING.

law

0. 6412

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/SB/O/WH

SB/CI/G

DATE

15 Nor

10 1469

OFFICER'S MASE

arias

AWES

DEST

ABSTRACT

INDEX

53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

MFO. 1-88

OFFICE STABOL

C/WH/1

DATE

1401

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

DISPATCH

---

## Page 66

CONTINUATIONOF

DISPATCH

CLASIORAVION

SECRET

30L ANO AURORA

HMMH - 15942

Contact No. 32 - Raul LOPEZ Calvillo Continued

lo a sister, Angelina, who in 1953

subscribed to

"Nueva Polonia",, a monthly.

bulletin of the Polish Legation in

Mexico City.

2.' A Raul LOPEZ (no matronymic) who in 1966

held a position of leadership within the

Communist Spartacus League, which is one

of the nost important. Trotskyist

organizations which follows the pro-

Chinese Communist line in Mexico.

3. A Raul LOPEZ (no matronymic) who in 1967

was a nember of the Coahuila State

Comnittee of the Bolshevik Communist

Party of Mexico.

4. A Raul LOPEZ (no matronymic) who on 21

March 1967 attended a film showing and a

small cocktail party at the Soviet Embassy

in Mexico City. LOPEZ is possibly a UN

employee.

Contact No. sa - Maria Victoria ALVAREZ de MURGA

First reported as being landlord to Soviets

in August 1952.

In 1955, her brother-in-law,

Jose Maura de MURGA Y Serret, occupied Apt.

No. 5 in the building (Cuautla 161).

Contact No. 40 - Esteban PICO Lopez

1. A reference exists to a Professor PICO

saka Jesus GARCIA Lopez.

This individual

was :mentioned in HMM-563 (date unknown),

Page 16.

The document cannot be located.

2. A reference exists to an Esteban PICO in

connection with a document numbered

TMM-2625 of 8 February 1952 which concerns

"Second American Peaœ Congress."

review of this document reveals no mention

whatsoever of any Esteban PICO.

Norma w. LETCHWORTH

Distribution:

3 - COS, Mexico City

FORM

530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTIMURD

201-261813

PAGE NO.

2

---

## Page 67

14-00000

SECRET

(then Pillad In)

DOCUMENT TRAMSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

S. AMALYST

DATE PROCESSIO

12. CROBS ALFERRED TO THIS FILE

RI FILE NO.

S. DISPATCH OR SOUnCE DOC.

SYugOL NO.

T. SOUNCE CRYPTONYM D, DATE OF INTO.

10. DISSEMIMATEO IN

1I. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

TRANSTEARED TO

DI FILE MO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

A. DATE

EVALUATION

BAKULIN, VALENTIN VASILYEVICH

201-261813

SEX M DOB ?

?

OCC ?

& HEXICO

ZNO SECY CULTURAL.

050-008-010

HMMA-33386A01

25 OCT 67

P12

R 6781150667

201-241813

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867

SECRET

(7•88)

+73

---

## Page 68

SUBJECT

OF.

DOCUMENT

SECRET

emon Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRAMSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

P. DATE PROCESSED

12.

CROSS RITERRED TO THIS FILE

RI FILE NO.

S. DISPATCH OR SOURCE

Doc.

SYMBOL

но.

1. JOUNCE COMPTOMIM A, DATE OF IRrO.

10- DISSEMINATED IM

DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

TRAMSFERRED TO

'RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

DATE

EYALUATION

BAKUL IN, VALENTIN VASILYEVICH

201-261813

SEX M DOB

?

201-192029

HMMA - 33309

18

OCT 67

CIT USSR

OCC DIPLOMAT

• MEXICO

VIKTOR KHUKHOREV 1201-1920298

HAS BEEN REPLACED AS SECOND SECRETARY

OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY

BY VALENTIN VASILYEVICH BAKULIN

WHO ARRIVEO PCS UN 3 DCT G7

R: 6710250372

201-261813

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867

SECRET

17-408

---

## Page 69

201-26143

INDEES

Ores @ no

Gussier To ruLe no 201 - 29068 LASSIFIED MESSAGE

X-ace to is no201-192029

PILE MIDD

ET. G0 DRANCHL

SECRET:

30

ACTION

TOTAL COPIES

5 04

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITES

30//W1/

ADVANCE

INIT

SB8

FRID COPY

FILE, UR WHP. WINKOGP. C. ClerS. ClIz FliFelenT 3

MEXI

CITE MEXICO CITY 3074

TIME

SECRET D923482

DIRECTOR

REDT OP

1100487468658

KEN A DIRECTUR SOOSE TO SETI TOT

B. DIRECTOR 20278 17 JULY 1967

Bakelin

LIFIRE REPORTED PCS ARRIVAL FOLLOWING SOVS ON 3

Karater

OCTOBER 1967 VIANFABENA FLT 555:

s- inended

The kaver

A. YEXATERINA SERGEYEVNA KOVALEVA (WIFE OF

S:MEXICO, MEXICOCITY

20L-0329682 WITH SERVICE PP 097580.

LiT:USSE

BSC

d-amendeal

SB/o/wit

B. VALENTIN VASIL YEVICH BAKULIN (201-261813)

AND WIFE, VERA. BAKULIN SCHEDULED REPLACE

DESTI

STRACT. A

VIKTOR LUKICH KHUKHOREV (201-192029) A5

SECOND SECY.

SECRET

SECRET

MICROFILMED

NOV 1 5 1967

DOC. MICRO. GER

B201-029068

8201-192029

10 Octil 7.

201-26/813

---

## Page 70

NISHANG FELL

"DiAL COPiiSi

IOS: NO ANDIGR PA TiALS - SEEN ET

DIANA DAVIS

53/0/4,j

6412

SECRET

GILT SSERGBARIAT OUSENINATION

30

- PIE DiD

ID fiLs IN eS fILE LO.

5:88

RID COPY

SILE

... Ve

201-261813

CUH8i Chales, espies

Hero eno time Lica

Galesence. number

faico

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR

20278

то ".

MEXICO CITY INFOS RIO DE ULTER 3UEZ

7

'RFATA?

REF: A. DIRECTOR 17399, 6 JUL 57:

B: MEXICO CITY 2017 (IN 65919)

DEST

ABSTRACT

INDEX

ACCORDING

TO SENSITIVE HOS SOURCE BAKULIN AND WIFE

AUTHORIZEO ONE-YEAR & SIPLOMATIC VISAS FOR MEXICO.

"END OF MESSAGE

C-INFORMED STATIO: OF VISA REQUEST OF VALENTIN VASILYEVICH

BAKULIN VINO SCHEDULED TO GO TO MEXICO AS SECOND SECRETARY IN

SOV EMBASSY.

: C/SB/0/WH_

SB/CS/GIU.i4. Fomac

C/WH/ 1P_

c/ir

17 jules 47

201.26181

COOZEIMATINS OFFICIES

00/554 Peesebe

SECRET

Боліел-

Officia

RPECDUCHOY SY OTHE

& THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE iS PROSiTES.

38% c0m No

1897.11

---

## Page 71

¡MOEX. DYES I NO

CLASSIPY TO PILE MOOZUL-

x 1/812 CLASSIFIED HESSAGE

X-REF. TO PILE NO.201-CA872S

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

47

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION

SB8

ERD COPY

ADVANCE COFY

ISSUED

MEXI

SECRET 0719582 CITE MEXICO CITY 2017

DIRECTOR INFO RIO DE JANEIRO

REDTOP

REF: DIRECTOR 17399

AESTRACT

1. STATION HAS NO INFO BAKULIN PLANNING TO RETURE,

TO MEXICO BUT WILL ATTEMPT TO CONFIRM REF REPORT.

2. NO INFO ON KHUKHOREV'S REPLACEMENT AS YET. IN

APRIL SEVERAL SOURCES REPORTED KHUKHOREV LEAVING PCS IN

SUMMER AND WIFE LEFT FOR MOSCOW ON 14 JUNE. HOWEVER LATEST

REPORT WAS 19 MAY STATEMENT TO LIROCKET- I THAT HE PLANNED

TO GO ÓN HOME LEAVE IN JUNE AND RETURN FOR ONE YEAR.

7 Ju. 67 M 06919

MICROFILMED

JUL Z 5 1967

DOC. MICRO. BER

B. 201-028925

7 July 47

201-261813

---

## Page 72

MESSAGE FORIA

POTAL COPIESE

26°

POUTINO AND /DE INITLALS - MIN DY

O11GS

UNITe

DIAÑA DAVISEP

SB/0/WH

54!?

DATES

5 JULY 67

CANE ICI

RITARAT DISHIMIMATION

0 32/21

come.

SECRET

iNOTX

DISYROT

RETURN NO

10

BRANCH

КО ПОЕХ

SB8

RID COPY

RIAN,

lolata arad thera God!

THE 1H C3 51L8.10:

201-192029

201-261813

WH8, F1, c/0/0556103,

loch

SECRET

Г MEXICO СІТУ

RIO DE JANEIRO 20 'Z

CITE DIRECTOR 1. 7 3 9 9

7

REDTOP

(6496208)

PEES! A.. PIO DE CANEIRO 2999

A FEB 5? (NOT SENT MEXICO CITY)S

B. HMMA-31320, 13 FEB 67 246

7

1. ACCORDING TO SENSITIVE HOS SOURCE VALENTIN BAKULIN

AND WIFE VERA REQUESTED MEXICAN DIP VISAS TO REPLACE KHUKHOREY AS

SHE SECOND SECRETARY.

"2. SUBJECT IS IDEN WITH VALENTIN VASILYEVICH BAKULIN (808-268883)

*KNOHN GRU WHO PREVIOUSLY PCS MEXCO 59-64.

3.. BAKULIN ORIGINALLY SCHEDULED FOR RIO AS SECOND SECRETARY.

CAN STATIONSASCERTAIN:

POSSIBLE CENIAL BRAZILIAN VISA?

• B.

ISSUANCE MEXICAN VISA?

END OF MESSAGE

#INFORMED HQS OF INMINENT ARRIVAL BAKULIN IN RIO

'»FORWARDED SPR ON BAKULIN TO RIO

ES COPY MIE N. 201f 192029 6/58/0/WH_

58/016 (v. 14 Tomi

fill into

501-261813

C/WH

Like n

C/WHA

SB/ COPS

BILLASINO OFFICER

SECRET

REPROQUGTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

177 Stam Na

---

## Page 73

DISPATCH

• CLASUFICATION

B. C

B T

Chief of Station, Blo de Janolo

Chief, SB;

Chief,

HER

FROM

Chief of station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

REDTOP - Valentin Vasilyevich BABULIN (201-261813)

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

CSB

PROCESSING ACTION

Attachrent

MARRED FOR INDEXINO

NO ICEXIES REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESA

CAN JUDGE SADEXIAG

MICROFILE

Attached 1s a Soviet Personallty Report on Subject

covering bia asaigiment in Mexico 1959-1961.

for/Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment:

SPB (11 pages), Hy

SPR (Page 12), USC

Distribution:

- COs/B1o 1e Janeiro, u/att.,

CSB, "/att., A8 STATED

1. = CHA, v/att., AB STATED

MICROFILMED

FEB 2:8 1967

DOC. MICRO. SER.

A8 STATED

S/C ATTID BY RI/A:

.6R339!

Bonasailisatica

r1h/10.

Latts 1%

CROSS REFERENDE TO

ES COPY

HIMA • 31320

CLATUFICATION

BBCBBT

201-261813

DATE

13 FEBRUARY 1987

MOS FOLE NUMBER

201-281813

---

## Page 74

14-00000

INDEXA.

Dres

CLASBITY

X-REP TO FILE

FILE.

100

DESTROY

• sє.

FROM

• но

NO.

ASSIFIED MESSAI

SECRET

PERSOM/UNIT NOTIFILO

REPRODUETION PROMIBITED.

ACTION

S B8

ADVANCE COPY

TIME

Dr

LA RID COPY

INPO

0..

FILE VIR

DA

P,

wit8

ADDp, eT, CHOPS, FI, FIENTZ

SECRET OBIADTE CITE RIO DE JANEIRO 2999

8 FEB 67 : 96208

DIRECTOR

REDTOP LCIMPROVE

REF DIRECTOR 72618

1o SUSPECT GRU OFFICER YURIY A. BEGISHEV

(281-766534) DEPARTED PCS 5 OCT 66. HOWEVER,

15 DEC G4 ARRIVAL DATE INDICATES THIS ONLY SLIGHTLY

PREMATURE FINISH OF TWO YEAR TOUR.

2. KNOWN GRU ROBESPIER N. FILATOV (281-191575)

ARRIVED RIO 21 DEC 63. HAS BEEN TALKING OF DEPARTURE

FOR SOME TIME BUT NO FIRM DATE YET SET.

•3. KNOWN GRU VALENTIN V. BAKULIN (201-261813)

DUE ARRIVE SOON. VISA APPLICATION RECEIVED EARLY

DEC 66.

AREA.

"4. NO OTHER KNOWN MOVEMENT GRU OFFICERS THIS

SECRET

SECRET

BT

conceRNeD THE

RETURN OF

GRU PERSONNEL.

TO USER

---

## Page 75

8 BCRET

ATTACHIENS, TO HUNA - 31320, DATED: 13. PEBRUARY 1987

SPR PREPARED BY: Jonathan L. HYENING

DATE:

1 Fobruary 1967

A7184882

201-261813

1. MAMB: Valentin Vasilyevich BAKULIN (10).

2. DPOB: 8 Fobruary 1925 (10, 17), 1n Moscos (10).

Subject vas once describod as a Georgian (2).

3. CITIZENSHEP AND PASSPORT DATE:

Soviet Service

passport # 40605,

Hoscow, used 1952-1964 (1, 10, 16).

IBaued 31 July 1959 10

4. ETENIC ORIGIN: Daknown.

S. OTHER NAMES USED:

Unbrows.

subject ia reported to havo used

his oun first nano "Valentin" with agenta

(2, 15).

6. CURRENT POSITION:

?. RELATIVE8:

#1fo:

VAr& IVaNOVnA BAKULIHA (3

soviet service passport & 46608,

lasued 31 July 1958 1n

Moscot, unad 1959-1961 (1, 10, 16).

Languages: BAlULINA vAs reportod to spoak fa1rly good

Spanish 1n 1968 (3).

¿sployseat:

Fron at least OCtOber 1960 BAKULIKA porked

hall days as bookkeeper in the soviet

Commercial Office In Mexico City.

she 1s

belloved to have held this same job until sie

left Mexico In January 1964.

she appeared

to bo a conselentious norker and several.

theos refused to leave the office when she

tas there on duty. (3).

Physical DesCriptIon: During her tour in lexico BakulliA

was short, rather stout, had blond

haIr and occasIonally nore glasges

A phetograph 1s attached (20).

b.

Bon: Vladials, born 30 January 1954 (10, 17).

U1th bis parents 1n Mexico, 1958-84 (1, 16).

(31).

SECRET

MICROFILMED

FEB 2 8 1967

DOC. MICRO, SER

---

## Page 76

14-00000

8. LANGUAGES:

8.

spanish:

subject reportedly spoke good Spanish in

December 1959, shortly aftor his arrival

10 Mexico. (2) .

b. English: Subjeot spoke falt Biglish 1n August 1960 (3).

D. PHYSICAL, DEBCRIPTION AND PHOTOS:

Photographs of subject taken during his tour 1n lexico

aro attached.

10. PERSONALITY, CHARACTER, HABITS:

In May 1883, Bubject vas raported to be drinking to exceas

and norrled about his position and future (12).

ho vas reported to be very unprofessional in his handling of

one agent, drinising too much and discouraged about his job (2).

This information, obtained through tuo double arent caspa: see-pot.

1'° CURRICULUM VITAS:

•In 1950 & Valentin BAKULIN was mentioned as having spent several

nontha in the Philippines reviering the political altuation and

anne a report on li to a conferance in Prague which vas concerned

1th vorting out a plan of action for the Par last. "

(6).

8 NOv 1959

subject, accompaniod by his nife and sou,

AITIVEd

1n Mexico (1).

subject was assigned

as saployee of the sovlot Babassy (10),

roplacing Viktor Lubich KHUKHOREV (201-192029).

19 Jus 1988

subject, his wife and son left Mexico on

home leavo (3).

18 Be 1988

÷ 12 бал 1984

Subject, h1s w110 and son returned to Mexico (11).

subject, his tille and son loft Mesico PCS (16).

sabjoct was replaced by the sane KHUKHORBY

above (201-192029), who by then had been

promoted to the rant of Third secretasy: (3).

IATBILIQNICE ASTILIATION: KNOWi GRU

Bubject vas the case officer for tro double agents, ono of

Thos

has been handled by other Chu officers. On 24 February 1961

& caller sas told that subject could be reached on telephone

aumber 055, which was the number of the Military Attache Office (2).

on 28 june leite when Subjeot and known GRU officer vladialI

201-929

called. the loviet inbassy and asked to speak to "one of our peoplo,

Pavel or sOnGOne else. "

Known. GRU officer Pavel Pedorovich

KOVALEY (201-029068) took the phone and talked to SHYSHLYAVEY,.

who sald to til their wives and Aleksandr Georglyevich dIdoRou

(201-018198, known CRU and presumed rentdent) that they rould be

back In Mexico CIty the f01los1a8 day. (3).

13. INTILLIGENCE ACTIVITIES:

On 30 December 1959 Subject took over a double agent

150m knOwn GRU officer Pavel Pedorovich KOVALEY (201-029068):

Then Subject want on hone leave in sunner 1962,

the agent vag

net on 7 July 1982 and subsequently by. known GRU offiCer

---

## Page 77

Vadia Aleksandrovich SHRNOX (201-278687)• On 30 October 1962

sHEROr told the agent that he as now the regular cese officer,

although subject had by then returned to lexico. sHEROK left

Kiicu PEs, nurever, a July ivos, und on 3 Septeaber 1963 Subject

again took the agent

over. When Subject left Mexico In January

1966 he gave the agent emergency contact arrangemente with one:

"Aisolas," who fros the description should have been Subject's

replacement, Viktor Lukich KHUKHOREY (201-/82029) 8ince tbe

sgont then left Mexico, no contact with KHUKHOREV

vas made. In

hay 1964 the agent was picked up by known GRU officer Yurly

Nikolayevich ISAYEV (201-741377).

b.

In May 1963-17 tag loarpod that Subject was handling

another double agent, on thon Subject lovied requirements for us

Army manuals and inforetion on US air bases. Subjects last meeting

"Ith thia agent vas in October 1963.

to have been

turned over to anyone else.'' (12, 13, 15).

:

A third double agent, who clained that he had been

recrulted by GRU OlfICer Pavel Fedorovich KOVALEV. (201-029068)

in oprius ice?, rost in & meeting in & Mexico City restaurant

on 26 August 1981; horover, he vas not contacted until the alternate

meeting the folloring day,

when he tas set by GRU officer Vagilly

Bergeyevich FROLOY (201-285608). On 26 August 1961 Subject and

GRU OffIcer Vladimir Nikolayevich SMYSHLYAYEV (201-288295) vere

observed covering. the restaurant where the agent was, although

the agant vas not set that day. (22).

d.

C1. below for Subject's visit to Morella, 17-18

April 1981.

10.

FOR-INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES:

Irom at. lenst May 1980 until the end of hia tour in Mexiço,

Subjoot was reportedzhandling the loan of documentary 11lmg

Iron the soviet Babassy, and as such he vas nominally & nember of

the Cultural section of the Embassy (3, 4).: Subject took this job

over from his predecessor, Viktor Lukich KHUKHOREV (A), and

KHUKHOREY toot the same job on again when he replaced subject

10 1964 (3).

subject's.office-hours:.1n this Job varied sl1ghtly

but vera notnally fron 1000 to 1200 hours on Mondays and Fridays (3).

Subject vas also occasionally reported accompanying visiting Soviot

delegations apparently as part of his Cultural section dutles (3).

u1l9 subject vas on home leave in summer 1962, the loan of 111mn

Mas handled by Assistant Cultural Attache Nikolay Sergeyevich

LEONOY (201-132138, knOws KGB) (3).

Is June 1960 Subjoet vas reported to be living in Anatian

123, Apt. 8 (5). On 28 August 1980 he noved to an unknown address

(8). • In Juno 1982 he vas reported 11ving at Curutla 161, Apt. ".

were he in belloved to have remained through the rest of his tou

La Mexico (3).

subject ia reportod to have taken the followlag tripo

Hox100:

08. 23-28 Пот 1980

803 Дас 1980

Bubject travelled with: a vialting 80viet

parIlamentary delegation (3).

subject vas 1n Acapulco, probably attending

the F1ln Festival (3).

BECRET

---

## Page 78

14-00000

са. 14-21 Арт. 1961

subject, Yevgunly Benenovich BOCHKOV

(201 - 072041; suspect GRU) and Yurly.

Konstantinovich ALIKBANDROY (201-262821.

suspect XGB) visited Morells and Guadalajara

(3) • On 17-18 Apr11 these three soviete

vere reportedly 1s. Morelia, there they

roportedly gave noney to Consunist students

with ordem to burn down the U8/Mexican

cultural Institute, this mas done on

18 April aiter the Boulets had lait

tOwD: (7, 9).

JUne 1881

On 22 June 1961, Subject and two other

soviets vero reportodly. In Reevo Larado,

probably to pick up a car (3), but thes

also raportedly distributed propaganda (8).

On 28 June 1981 Subject and V. N.

SHYSALYAYEY vere 1n Tampico, apparantly

an extension of the same trip, and planned:

to return to Mexico CIty on 29 Juna 1861 (3).

3 DOO 1982

Bubject was reported 1n Acapulco, appareatly

at the P1ln Festival (3).

DurIad his tour 1s Hexico, Bubject vas reportod constantly

coming and golng. at the soviet Esbassy, even during the time

when he ostenalbly had office hours.

In 1959-60 subject drove a

ost. u1th diplomatio tagu l 97; then from November 1980 unt1l hla

home leave 10 June 1962 tags # 81 (changed to D-383 in January 1032)

(this car ras often used also by !. 8. FROLOV); after his hone

leave he first used D-383, which was then taken over by Aleksandr

M1kh3y10v1ch DENISOV (201-728491, known GRU), and Subject sultched

to D-381, thick vas takon over by hla succoseor, V. L. ANUKHORSY (21).

15. CONTACTS

Boylet Contacts:

On & June 1981 Subject uns reported planning to take Georgly

Andreyevich to see the pyrenids; they used the fasillar lorn of

Redress (3).

This was presumably Georgly Andreyevich MITERBY,

representative of the Soviet led Cross who vas then vialting lexico.

There 1o 11ttle infomation on Subject's close itledo usong

akthe soviets stationed in lexico. on 24 October 1961 subject assed

Ivan GavrIlOVICh ALPERYEY (201-236701, knovn KGB) to go to the

noTLes with him, but ALFBRYEY

Vadt Aleksandrovich C54H0K (201-278697, KEOW GRU) and possible dien

ok

Aleksandr Hikhaylovich DENISOV (201-728481, know GRU) planned to

take their children on an outing to the spa of Cuautla (3). on

86 Yebruary 1964 the wife of Alekaandr Georglyevich BIDOROV OK

1(201-018494, known GRU, probably resident) Bald thet she had

roçeived a letter iron subject's vilo (3).

b. Hon-sovlet Contacts:

.к.o

•1). "jor1dr10" (1.0. 01988650):

On 25 kay 1082 Ojovidrlo called Subject, but subject sald that

he would not be able to see hin until after subject got back fron

hose leavo (3):

BBCRET

---

## Page 79

86 C

29.1

Priet:

2). Donato Lito.

On 7 October 1980 Donato, who uned the fanillar Jora of

andreas with subject, reke? lubjoct for aome filme to be shown

"the cultural conter."

Donato invired Subject to go to the

centor that evenlag, but subject was busy (3):

3). JOBa LURE LAU.

On 27 May 1960 J080 Luls Informed Subjoct that hia children

Balvador and Eduardo vera sick with hepatitis.

Subject said that

In that case they had better postpone "this natter" for a couple

of пookв..

(1) :

Pollah

Stantala ADAROVICZ (P-2301, 201-198881), SOr70T/COMBerOLel

employee 1a Mexico.

On 30 July 1960 ADANOWIC asked subject 1f he could borrow

BaRe 11ln8 fos thoir holiday on 22 July (3).

5).

Javier FAlYaREs, probably identies) with the Javier ALYAREZ

Voga who in 1963 vas reported to be cleaning sonothing at the

Soviet Emboasy.

a 38 barca 1008 subject caller Anvallis 8t 12-50-25 to aB

bout bis tgpostiter (3)

-Doc Ricardo ALVAREZ del Ceat2110 (P-3318), reported born

81 April 191% In lexico, D.J. apparently originally in contact

vith the sovlots as a medical consultant and later on & social

baals. No recent contact with soulets tnown.

On 8 April 1960 ALVAREZ reninded Subjoct that they had met

In tho sonort of Cuernavace and invited Subject and his vile to

dinner (4).

On S NoTesber 1960 ALVAREZ complained that he had not

gotten his invitation to the l lovember. reception at the Boulet

Embassy and sald that subjoct vas a very good friend o1 h18 (3).

On: 28 Hay 1961 Bubjoct and ALVARBZ sade & chess date, and ALYAREZ

Invited Subject's fanlly to come over a180 (3). On 22 May 1963

IB. ALVAREZ sald that her husband vas travelling sround latin

Anorich and complalied that she had not soen sabject for & 1098

HTs. ALVAREZ wantod Subject 'to help a friend of her, ira.

Si:SlIZA, tho vantod to travel to the US8R, and subjoct sald ho

vould tale care of her when she came to the Embasay (3). On 7

Hovenber 1963 ALVAREZ agaln complained that he had not racelrod

his invitation to the sovlot inbassy receptios, and subject sald

1) • (81810005). PIu ANGE, Bot furthor identifiod.

On 14 september 1960 ANGS, locatod at telephone 22-05-93,

the C1U1I DeTOneutICE Off100, told subjoct that he had been unablo

to so the day before.

Subject sald he would neet AiG and his

father that day "there." subject and ANGh used the fantllar fOrT

of addross.: (3).

LARGELl bi Of Carpoche, Probably Identical vita.

*Moranda MIque ANGe Pable de Coleton To Doctober 1965

vas ilatod as an activo member ol the loviniento de Liberacion

Macional, a pro-cuba Consunlat iront organization.

---

## Page 80

22444.

BBC BBT

Op. 15 August 1963 ANGELl contacted the Sovfet Embassy 10

Hexico City saying that ho was a irtend of Subjoct's but that

tho last tine he had been in Mexico City he had been told that

Subject had

returned to the US8R." ANGELI asked for subject's

current add

also for information on traval io loo usar,

wa

trip (14)84

PRU ARREDONDO

of the katlonal University.

at the seat be on a to son a go subject

10). " Engineer) Inu-AlA, Uf..

located at telephone nuaber

24-38-30,

listed to Talleres: Blectronicos Sea (telovision), not

further Identified.

On 26 April, 1963 Subject asked AYAliA to return the filme he

had borroweds (3).

11) • Enrique BORDES Mangel P-4717), Mexican PTO Communiat

employod as photographer VIth Prenaa Latine,

the Cuban news asency

18. 8081c0. BORDES has taken photographs at Sovlot Embassy receptions.

a t February to subject, thanked DomEs for the photograph

nd ashod what he owed bin, but BORDES said only a bottle o

vodkar (5).

12). (Architect) Pou BREN

not further identified.

On 31 May

1981 BRERA asked subjoct 1f he could see him the

subject sald he rould be out of towniuska

sicine gould callethe collowing rook and perhaps they couldiget

togother with thelr uves. Subject and BRENA used the fantllar

on 22 Novenber 1962 ARENA tried to reach

subjoet, but he waszout

cot further identified

t telephone 10-93-38 for Subject to

ane 191 or a oct to rot the Chero eter

phone vast listed to Cesa

00 1878eptenber. 1961 Bubj

asklag bin to return sone

CUIng (3)

to super Autoe Sema Areaado,

1800:0

ГB0)A

let

to him at the fir

11гg 1n 1861 тав

Communist living

gue

reported®

Lave

To 1984 Arlel

ricar

Jaddr

C69.

An dOn: (2019108867).

hon vas

volved gin

was

a 1n evidently

IN8 2OT

with Borls Pavlov

loh

18. D08

On 26 May 1961 CAMPOS men

tione

bie the previous Baturday

and:g1

dato

Subject that he had seen

ven bin

otter

CAMPOS asked

poss1bly (1lms)

A CASTILLO

contacte.

On 8 July 1983 KT. CASTILLO contrated Subject ta orderite

rov sone gilns for his iife,

the director of the Coyoacan

Ballet Acadeny. On 23 Jaly 1963 KIS. CASTILLO herself asked

subject about, f1ine (3).

88 CB BI

---

## Page 81

Marla de la Paz CERVANTES (P-8848), employeo of Sabeas

Alrlinos, In contaot with the sovlet Elbussy in regard to travel

arrangenenta.

On 25 April 1863 CERVANTES asked subject about borrowing

f1las (3).

17).

fnu dIAs, of the fira Dias y suarez, not further identifiod.

On 10 July 1903 DIAZ asked subject about a Illa on the

cormonauts (3) :

21s 20, 28). Pornando

#DIAz, not further idontified.

On 85 August 1961 DIAZ arranged to come by and get a 11ln

{ґот

subjoct (3).

Salvador DIAI do Sollano: (Boyano), no other traces.

Is 201

From July 1981 to April 1962 Subjoct was frequently reported

In cantact with subject about borking 11lms; usually Subject vas

trying to got DIAZ; to roturn 11lms he had borrowed (3).

-20!

180).

Alojandro

•BRISTAIN Plores Sanches, no traces.

Hophew

Of HOrsCIO PLORIB Sanches (P-133),

Mexican leftiat profossor who

has boon frlendly with several sovlets.

On 29 July 1961 Horselo asked subjoct thy his nephew had had

trouble in borrowing f1lms from Bubject for Preparatory Bchool # 9,

and subject sald that he had to have a signaturo of sonoono uho

Fould be responsibla for the return of the lilas.

1989 AleJandro saked subject about borrowing filma (3).

J(21). PRu SORTERO

по traces.

On 24 May 1963 FORTItO triod to locate Subjoct on behall of

the Chilean Ambassador in regard to coples of speeches (not surther

explainod) (3).

pLa). Batardo PaARCIA MarqueR, Of the lational Univoralty, no traces.

On 10 Pobruary 1981 Aleksandr Mikhaylovich BBOVKIN (201-185114),

cultural elficer of the Borlet Embassy, contactod CARCIA,

who knew

Babjoct, and said that he ranted to discuss an exchange of flins (3).

91 1D DEX COBRA POTOS CP 8007

, 201-334094) , former CubaI

OR 15 MATCh 1983 CARCIA asked Subjoat about a fIlE. CARCIA

mid & friond of hia rould pick 1t up, because CANCIA Uns lORvIng

that day for Cuba.

On 1& June 1963 Bubjoct said ho rould have

the 11la ready for subject's next trip (to Cuba). (3).

24).

CARIOB ARTIO VELASCO 011 (D-76A3, 801-271071), Mexican

Cosmunlot vorting for Prensa Latina, Boviet press contact.

On 18 December Subject called Marlo OIL Iron dounto Nexico

city,

saying he hed the book that Gll vanted.. OlL agreed to noot

subjoct 1n ton sinutes at tho "sana place so last time." (3).

185).

No 201

Carlos tacokEz Romero,

enployee of the lnstitute for Hexdcan-

inaalan cultural Exchange in Mexico City (IICHR):

In 1962 and 1983 GONEZ ROMeTO VAs OCCasIOnallY reported

contacting Subject in regard to 11las, presumably for shorlag at

the LICHB (3).

Tii 191

On 22 August 1960 CONzAllZ asked Bubject about borroring &

811n (3)

---

## Page 82

No les

Bauel GONZALEZ Casanova (P-11156), head of cinema sectior

Difusion Cultural at the Rational UnIveralty, reportedly:

loftiet.

28).

identifiod.

fou GUTIERREZ Galindo, of Revista Cuauntenac, not further

On 5 September 1960 GUTIBRREZ Calindo reminded subjoot that

they had set at & Sovlet Embassy filu showing.

GUTIERREZ Galindo

vanted to borrot a i1ln to shou at his home and invited Subjeet

to come (3):

On 16' JUne 1961 GUTIBRREZ Galindo invitad Bubject

to go with "us" the next day, but subject sald he could be out of

town and would call when he got back. On 30 June 1961 GUTIERREZ

Galindo said he wanted to see subjoct and would come by..

JUlY 1961 GUTIERREZ Galindo sald he would go to see subject the

sast day. (3).

20).

Identified.

Pnu HERHANDEZ, Of Dopartment of Communicatlons, not further

,. {orne: Crech Comercla

181).

Ose AntOnIa TRARRA Cordoba

¿ no traces.

On 82 February 1984 IBARRA ashod at the Sovlet Babassy for

ian savitation to the 23 February reception.

IBARRA describad

binsalt as a good irlend of subject's and of his friend "Yursy." (3).

(Turly night be CoU officer furly MIkolayevioL ISAYBY, 201-741377.)

Raul TroPEZ Calvillo, no tracos:

On 8 JanuAry 1962 LOPBI Calvillo contacted Subject, erylag that

ho did not know hon long he mould be staying 11. lexico City.

Ho asked Subject to translato an articlo on hydraulic engineering

for his that had been sent his fros the Us8k. -

LOPEZ CAlVIllO

astangod to 80 to 8oe subject that day (3).

83). (Enginoer): Inu LOPEZ Costills, not otherules identifiod.

On 10 Septenber 1960. LOPEZ Costilla left a bossaga that Bubjoot

had forgotten to send an invitation to (Ing.) Gerardo CRUICKSHAUX

The latter must be (IDg.) GerardoN OCRUICASBANS lIn:

darpts, member of the Partido Popular soclalists and roportadly

(sa)!'

SHURGA, MATO Os AlvardO dESAUBO

• where. anny: Soviet,

Including subject, have l1vod.

on 4 August 1961 Mrs. HUrdl said that she nooded to soo subjoot.

but he vas in Cuernavaca for the day (3).

On 14 June 1962 Subgeet

vant to the MundAs' house to say goodbye before golag on hose

loate (5).

---

## Page 83

'(Engineer) Jorgo

AMANZARO, Do traces.

OR 37 Apr1l 1963 MAHZAIO triod unsuccessiully to roach

subjoct.

On 27 May 1963 he asked Subject for films for the

Instituto Librei de F11080118 (3).

(:l| 138). 1802010 1

*NONTERO, пО trACeS.

On 11 August 1980 MONTERO WAnted tO DOITOY & 11lA STON

Bubjoct (3).

1ll 37t s

Fernando

not furthar 1dontif1od.

SoPRagOr, Of Presa Departrast ol Convalcadones,

On 28 AprIl 1808 OBRECON arranged to come see subject for

& boos (3).

1. rares) pro for Visa, no nasticans

On 1S MAY 1980 ORTIGA,

of the Colegto Hacional de Arguitectos

do laxico, seldithat he sould send someono over to pick up 11lna

frey subjoct (4).

39). (DE.) InU PERE: Garcis, not further 1dent1f1od.

On 17 JUne 1960 PERIZ Carola sald that ho had lent some lllas

that ho had taken in the USSR to "Col. Maltrly" (probably Assistant

u1I1tary Attache Daltrly Mikolayevich LUKHSTSOV), and that "Col.

Dastrly" had told him that subjeat rould have then to return to

his. PRasa Garcia arrangod to cone to seo subjoot (4).

On 24

August 1981 PEly Garcia tilod unsucceaBlully to reach subjoct (3).

rib.

Batebas #PICO Lopez,

o 1 dentiftable tracon.

On 3 MArCH 1981 PICO renieded subject that they hid not at

the Rod Aray Day roception and arranged to come to see subjoct.

On A 'AprIl 196L PICO arrangod to go to get "the books" frou

subject. (3).

[AlS. Jal10

trisco, Do tracos.

On 83 Bepteaber 1980 PLIEGO asked subjoet shother ho could

koop the 1125 another rock (3).

DeTOnIO ERAMLIES, TOrka as BOGIel Bacurity, sot otberrie

110761

On 4 Boptember: 1D81 RAMINEZ Wantod tO TOtUrA a f1ln to subject (3).

43). Guadalupe

Frozarouss, not further idontariod.

on 19 PebrUATY 1967 RODRIGUES vasted to plak up a fllu sTo

subject (3)

AS)S P, RODRICUIZaLo1 lexican Horspaper Correspondents Associatios,

not otherwlee identified.

On 2 March 1962 NODRIGUEZ vanted to get a f1la ITOn subjoot (3).

B B C B BT

---

## Page 84

14-00000

∞100

45) .

Second Becretary

10 o her 1 aD eso Radio Contro, telephone 10-46-70,

On 12 June 1961 Subject asked RUANO to retura the {1lng he

had borroved for the Unlversity of Chihuahus.

On 21 July 1961

Subjoot again asked BUANO to return filan. On 18 Septenber 1961

subject tried unsuccesstully to reach Ruallo (3).

47).

fnu SALGADO, of Astronomical Soclety, not futther Identified.

On 14 April sad 24 April 1961 BALGADO WAS 1n. touch ulth

subjoct in regard to borroning filnio (3).

LeSS.. Juan SALIRAS Gutlerres, no tracoa.

nofr!

On 28 July 1981 Subjoct planned to tako SALINAS an InVItAtION (3).

18). Ranos SSVILlA Fornandos (P-3443), O1 television Channel 11.

•villa gas da contadt with subject on di June, " rovende

! Movrabar and 3 Decenbar 1982 in rogard to borrowing films (j)

180).

Sulld OTElLE% Carcia, head 01. the 21lm club at the Polytechnlo

Institute sponsorod by the partido

Popular Bociallata, contact

of Sortet Films 011100.

?' On 88 ApI1l 1963 Subject ansod TELLEZ to SOtUrA sono f1lag (3).

31), (1ng1200T) Inu VERA, not further Identiflod.

On 30 Jaguary 1960 VERA vantod to discuss varlous commercial

notere not there sabet come teleto ennio on

atters tita subject.: subjoct said he rould callo virA Bald 1i

15 February 1960 VBBA astangod to meet subjeot abia calo. subject

ald sot tant to poet VERa at the IICHR. :

(4).

On 1 SObriArY 1983 MACHER vanted to boston sore dance 112as

fron Bubjoct (3).

(General) LESenZO DELAYA Alger (P-847)), son of Honduran

communist.

Active Connuniet student agitator 1s 1956-59. 01 the

Ministry of Hydranlic ResOUrCes.

Oa 35 May 1960 ZELAYA vantod to 000 Bubject about 11ln8 (1).

ESORRILLA Orneles, bology toacher at.

On 14 JULY 1860 ZORRILLA VAnted tO DOFTON a P1lA Pros subject

for Behool: (3).

201-261813

---

## Page 85

•11.

1B. PAST OPBRATUOHAL ACTIVITY AGAINST SUBJECT:

with special

Routine coverage during hie tour 1n HericO 1960; 6-8 and 11-15

June 1962; 9-10 May 1963; 29 May-l June 1963, 30-31 October 1963 (5).

Conalderation mas given to making a recruitnent approach to subjeat

at the and of his tour in Masico, but no sotion as taker.

• 17. OPBRATIONAL PLAKHINO DATA:

signatures: (1).

SUBJECT:

Firma del De

Sarante

WIFE: (2 ver81015) :

Абст.

Кілкиї

Firma del Declarante

$18.

OPBRATIONAL STIPS TO BE CARRIED OUT IN HEXT YEAR:

Not applioablo.

• COPY

---

## Page 86

• (18)

(11)

(→0).

(20)

CS COPY

201-261813

---

## Page 87

14-00000

СВT

-12.

USC ATTACIENT TO ENHA - 31320, DATED: 13 FEBRUARY 1967

18. . SOUBCES:

1. LIFIRS travel roport and Mexican Innigration fore, 5 Nor 1958.

2. LI0027-2 Cas0 1110, passla.

3. LIBIVOY, aftor Juno 1860, pessia.

1. LIFRAT, until June 1060, passia.

5. LIBHARACE sUrveIllaNCe, dates as gives.

8. 84078 горот, 11 july 1960.

7.

PRXI-1881, April 1961, Infomation from retired LIBOLD OffICer.

Bame Information printed in Excelsior, 23 Apr1l 1881.

According

to the latter, Radio Moscoy also carriod the story.

8.. LNERCO report, 11 June 1961

8. Licolator artiole, 34 Jue 1961.

10.

РавОрОГі ЯТО LPURE, June 1962.

11. #5I-2003, Sep 1962, LIFIRE travel IalornatIon.

12. HEXI-1716, MaY 1083, LIERRO InfOrMBtIOn ON LAnOB caso.

13. DIR-45798, JUNe 1983, LABROO InPOrAtION ON LADOS CAse.

14: LIHUD mall coverage.

15. LADOS CRSO P11O, passIE.

16. LIPIRE travel report, 12 Jan 1961.

17. HLUM-8018, 29 Aug 1989, RIDCAP sheet contalaing LACOLD Intorsation.

18, BIHORCITI photograph, 18 August 1860.

18.

LICAlLA photograph, l Mov 1958.

80. Photos obtained through LIvistockes, ca. 1959.

81. LIBUPTY survelllance, passlm.

22. Cago f1le 01 201-242409.

MICROFILMED

FEB 2 8 1967

OC MICRO SE

IS COPY

---

