104-10183-10060) |

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 560.

et ais be

eran

TOT~ TOUTS.

Sumsr; of Contacts with

AMHIP/L and AMLASH/L

« Events of 30 July 1%2.
AMGHIP arrived in Helsinki cn 30 July 1952, He callec HBF IRCR

aceord'ng to plan, and after his second call (due to his hotel porters
abystnsl understanding of English), Fallucc! eetabliahed eontact «ith
AMAHIP without further d'fficulty. The-mesting took place in. the

restaurant of his hotel, The Vaskuna, and later ‘n hie room. ie had

not at th's time located AMLACH, so the time was soent briefine AMUIP
on the lecal sone, an? on hia conduct with AMLAJH when they met, he
meeting lasted about one and a half hours.

Tate: the sare da, we called A¥-HI? ath a hotel to repack

no protress in locat'n= ATLASH. Feelins it advtaable to keen ANT?

orcuntat, we took N’m out to nor at Pieketorpet, located in the

erbuste of Helsins', The eventn: lactet unt.1 1°CO, tersinating with a
drink at the rocf var of the Yaaruns, usin the sfx hours, we had an

ovportuntty to expla n earefully to AMHIP Unat tn orto: for us to help

hea frend, ACACH must be wil ay to follew ouf Atrect:ons and a:ree to

rt on).

certain contitions (alreaty arreed upon ty tnterssted Hay

ide Hovey

AMI? posltned Unat Uils was necensary, ant sereet with our
be te attenket to MEA, art will auntime te look amen hia in the nost

sdeotioe manner, Tha betas rau.er fa ramet fem on

Kener stent ant
tntentel aparcasr ta, antesinton af MTA, awewte - Ph oreq oe kant or

aware ot ow

wie eee neti en fa te that he ur te



peeition in this matte:. <e cloced the meeting by telling him that ve

voult have an effort male ‘n the morning to lecate AMLACH, and that he

mizht as well relax, s.cht-see 'f he w’shed, and that we would te in touch

w'th him at Intervals forin: the Zaz. :

1942,

>, Events

Our efforts te locate AHLASH throu h e/* proved to te

frattless. Theadore T. sfotersrst, vho was nandl ne((a.neL2/2, pate
that the letter tried his test, tut had not teen adle to do us any rood.

The Stationjalso reported that its contacts had teen unatle to ald us.
(Fie ation)
e reported to AMsHIP the fact that we had not located AMLASH, and suggested

that we have dinner together, to which he acreed, We net ANWHIP at 2100
a> our hotel, the Kaz, and proceeded to the Zoya} Restaurant for d'nner.
A¥K#IP was obviously cetting on pins and needles tecauss we had not found
ts friend. He succestet that we call up the Gubin Sortival delezation,

or try sone hotels that eventnz. “$ oarsunied hie that it vas not the

vest idea yet, ant to cive sther pecple nora tine to locate hin, He
arreed, tut kept cantnz up with Leas ALL evening for ws s te Iceate ANLATH.

ft eluhs, an? that afta: 3 nner we could

He curvested that MEAT Lived a

that with any thowhts

perhaca try several, +e acres, sore to placate

al, the S-winspar ce and the Theater 2: Ud,

ef puecess, +a tree!

ris, cut no sims of ACAH, the

wth of which were fillet wth tiny n>

want

Finns, ercacing in ther nat qual past av, ot curl, siitatet A

t

yan hour,

cheaser

after tern: pushet arouns it

he the: St thie wae a waste ct tae, ca acceet, crahted & LaR. ant vant

Rowe, INEing Ue evening, ee tei AN HIS thet loeer.ov moming, $f neth 6:

hat tcimed un, we wathd ptert re calling tne [acter hoteles tn tom oure

oa,

sate th LM, ve ayreet te Y

ant te tite pether istortese setuet te

| PRE RORER “eRTRRTT IMENT Sree NEAR Or ND CARED, AER OHS MD RRR RE



tetveen 9 and 10 o'clock at our hotel.

te of 1 Aumst 1962.

3.
“sc AMGHIP arrived at our hotel at O945 ca 1 August, and we retired

to our room to telephone. Securing ap outside line, our friend began

le decided to try the local "pins" hotele first, the Mlaag

Korkit, and the Torn{.  AYHIP had no luck with the Klaas Zarit, but when

to telephone.

he called the Torni, he was told that AMLAGT was there, and war connected
with room Ho. 201. 4 Spanteh-epeaking man (who was later {4entified as
the nevly appointed Cuban Diplomatic epresentatize to Pinter) ansvered
the phone in 701 ant said that AWLASH vas In the shover, ant call hack
leter ‘ft wae fmportant, AMTIIP loft a mescass thet he wat from Yexteo

and that he, "Carlos", would call back, During the treak, we 'netructed

him to be careful on the teleshone, and te tall: as ‘f the opposition was

to cee hin,

Mstening. He var tust to he casual, greet ALAN, arcance
saying that he was tn durope on buy ‘ness in Scandinavia, Preace and svi tzrerland,
and that hearing In Hele:nkt that AMASI was attendinz the Festival, he

had decided to atop over and contact him, hen AGA answare? the phono,
AMHIP's face 114 up, caution was atandoned, and ho was off at a rapid

rate in Spanish, AMLASH caid that he would te rivht over te see AMAdIP

n careful,

in hip room at the Yaaxuna, wo briefed AMEIP one more on tet,

“o Asvance! to have AMSHIP call us vhon

and showed AMHIP to the -%

ho could at the offire, u Kia once aore to te careful an! *trercet,

ve hope he hes “een, It yan tater learned that fiewin: MELE on chts

hotel room win pure oo fortune, wes Suet eine th a som ta are

th the quarta > af tne esmmn “ele ater.

A shewes, eingo he vas atitl reer



least seven hours, fro atout

REED talked to MOAH fe
+1000 tn the morn'ne unt!l aporox xatel- 1700 the save eveninz. chen AMUHIP

eailed us at 1730, he presented us w'th the fact that he had convinced

4a dinner

REASH to tale with us, an¢ for this purpose, he hed arvans

ing for approxizatel: 1930. “e would have preferred

meet nz that sane
to talk longer vith AMHIP about AMLASH's reactions, tut time did not :
Permit. 4e arranged a dinner for 2100 at "The shite Lad", a restaurant

seme way fron the center of town, and sveceeded in obta’ning a private

“iting room, a practice not uncommon in ta:sGtatioa} recomen rd restaurant, F

it is often used by businessmen to have private diners and afterwards,

business discussions.

We arrived at the -hite Lady first, arranzed for the d'nner, and
awaited AMHIP and AMLASH, who arrived at “110 hy tax!. Althouch AMCHIP:
had sugzestad to us that the discussions should Lo'nerely devoted to
getting acquaintet the f'rst evenin:, AMA Tf ecrmence’ almost immeliatel,
into a ¢iscuss’on of h’s feelin-: ani, h s position concernimz Cuba today.

(Ged\709) ULALH was qu te intense, and showed

the stra‘n of h’s wnexpecto? neat'n.: w'th AM HIP, Althu-h obvfousl

As reporte? in our eable

unde. anctional strain, AMAH preeented his feelinse 'n a re’ tively cala
manner, and was <iven to cd ecussing thes throushout the meal. Fo sait he

pf

Py he

was emsidering not zo:nz back to cuba, but after talk'’ng tc 2!
felt that If he could do ecmothins really otynifteant for the creation of
@ pew Cita, he was tnterested in retum ng to carry on the fight there.

\fe for any emall un tartarine,

Ho ead he wan not intereste! in risyir:

a reall; } part to pla, he wuld wee

Dut that tf ho couls se ety,

Mineell ant several cthe:e nus whea he coule val, voon, Thess he ea'4



included to majo-s (one of vhich AXIP later reported .was a militia
commander ia the center part of the islanz), two captains, and several
“others whos AMLASH sait he could trust, but whos he would not. nine.
AMLASH said he had had plane to blow up an cil refinery, as he felt that
the continuing existence of a eenblence of noreal funct‘oning ‘i Cuba
depended won a continuing supply of petroleum, supplie: of which, ‘as we
know, ‘are at a critical stage today, He also wanted.to plan the execution ee
of Carlos Rodriguez and the Soviet Ashassador, and also to eliminate Fidel,
‘ty “execution {f necessary. Ee feels that if Fidel ts eliminated, 1t would
be mucli éasiar to effect a tave-over. (io otened for te moet part, bat
at this point tried to explain to AMLASH that men like 2odrt.uez could easily
be replaced by Moscow, and that the killing of the Coriet mhassador, would

‘est effect on the Soviet control of Tuba.) AMLA NH was

_ have only the tr

fot too interested tn listenin: at this po‘nt, ant continued ty eesin: that.

{f he could achieve all these act!ms, plus othere, In cne masters stroke,
@ take-over, durin: the ensutns confuston, wuld te much factl*'tated, He
aid not foal that kau? or Che would te akle to rally the people ‘n ouffic!unt

time to prevent opposition foreos fron forming. H:s arruuenta ant plans had

oan, flavo, tut AMMHIP could not help sdmirine (to himself) AGA!
professed desire for vicorous end, hi pefully, effective sev‘ons, des :ened"

to alter the situation in no uncertain terua. shite ve were making no
eoralttnente or plane, we pointed cut to AMLALH that achenes i1ro he envig!oned
certatniy hat the'r plage, hut that a lot of coortinatisn, planning, tnforsatton.

Ary prorequiottes to enoura the value end cuareue

sollest’cn, ete,, ware nece

we weren't too aure Svat

ef mich plang, 4 4 eat ho acreat oth this,

Rew amiah Of Ui a areunent UCLA veo wt evilitn., ty



WLATH nade 1t clear during the discesslons that hewar coupletely
arpatnst Fidel“s use of Soviet help fron the fret, bat he had never envisioned,
that even if 't vere-uset, Gust hov ineffective !t really would be-towards,
he.eatd, stout the

_ Boleing Cuba‘e problems. He still feels stroas!
[pL teht of the lover classés”in Ciba, and in any future Cute, he would tt
instet oa a new deal for then, ALLAH sald that althoush he had not’ been
effective. in helping the formation of a-benefictal nev. Governnenit tn" Cuba,
he was now teuoacea to work tovards that end. This tine, he said, he
oo atte. Sto Sk wake toyerdd thie future, toth for his.ova interests and for
Cuba's. ‘The Last ting, bie ‘sad that he thoucht only as far ag the elimination

of at‘sta, and had not civen consideration to planning for a government he |
favored after the fishtinz vas over. ‘le felt that AMLAIH xeant that he wes

.@8 much concerned atout hic (AXUCN's) poe‘t’cn fn the government ant
personal stele tn anew cuba, as ho was about anythin: else, It te our
impression that MCACH feels that he did net -et his share of tho epotls

or power frew the Cestro regiae, tn proportion to hfs ecntritution arainst

Batista, AMLASH te « complteatat porsenslit.. It is difficult to fairly
jwise, at thie t're, H's deviee of concern for a truly revoluttonized

Anew coverament {a

Cura for the people's benefit, ve his concem to s
Cuta in which he gets Just recomition, hie does not occessarily mean

+ Mut he does want credit for his

that ACASH wants high political off
efforte and the recuitant power and prestire eaon: his countrymen,
In addition to hie concern for the manner in which the vorlets are

ca, DOAK te worried stout

uring Cube for thelr own “eeterie tn Lation Am

tha extent ty whieh tne Séviet Loohnique of canturing the

Binte of Vie yore peopte an! the masa pronasants efforts ace net Une waaees.


‘ young minds, 4s his concern th t the UA wll beg’n to consider

ithe intense ant!-Amer!can, antl.

Just as nreat as are ASLACH's fearc about the Castro’

avo ‘for Cuba, and in the event of any intence and cuccessful ant!-regine

Jastinter, ‘much as he,plans, anit vbich Looks: as {f tt might depose the regime,

ce Of seriour

PORE will withdraw its rapport fron such efforts in the

. threats fron ‘the Soviets. Although asta did not say it in 80 sany words,

tt was apparent from the Gtecusstons thet AMLASH would prefer'to be able to
free Cuba without any outside support (and ty inference, obligations), tut _
ho {a a realist enough to conceds that any efforts to overthrow Castro

must have the support of PEPAIMY, Ke i, therefcre, willing to enter into .
peer erry (8) of PUPy. 3 towards this. ent.

@acusstons vi th
WIE agreed to meet in Paris for the purzese of further detriefings

also most

and to tive any information in any ftel! which he has. He &
peaic

willing to discuss any plans which may lead to an ovarthrow of the oracent

government. AMLASH state! many tines, however, “ur’ne the course of the

ist hovrelf tne plan of

meatinzs, that he vaa only interested in tnvel

stentficant act‘on, and which waa truly ‘last-ne! tn achieve rapt ‘Ly Nie desire

to help cubs, (Ho tol+ AMAIIP later ; tar wa haw left the reatines, Wat

he wae afsa:4 that FPP /TMS vould ecry que to pureua ite prosent corre,

that of prov:din’ waney ant tt
adanant stout pot teoatny tmvalved many wa wth the “uten 1 efures

tn Miaat,. He pats Unat de feele there are at.li

etreles and o santzatt,

the sane peopie whe left Cuba, i.e., willing ta watt fer the chance 12 return

and again pureve the’. only tetervet , that of marine ernes, He alae eat!

Te



_ took a taxt together “pack to town. AMSHIP arid AYLAGH stopped off at & local _

he ‘felt that the Sutans there were complutely penetrated ty Castro informants,

p cooperation vith PRET, vould be the.cexe
We

and that for then to noe of ht
“and thus his future vould end gzacnst the walls
2 these people

as tellinz Castro,

assured hin that cacims security would Fe practiced, as fer
were concerned. Eo also does not.wish to trustor : de sneoived with, any...
contract Sutans. Orly the PS7RDKENS does he.wigh to deal. (Along thie Line,

aid not think it advisddle to Féreél sny of thase

GRIP stated thet bs
vpdgotiations: to ROR whom AXHIP has known -for many years and is
quite friendly, but whon he oss not feel can Keep -8 secret of this nature.)
‘This mesting terminated at 0030 on 2 Aagists Tho three participants

i
|
i
|
H
i
i
i

night club, Teater Orillen, while ve cont ‘nued on to our hotel. lio incidents

of a security nature were observed, and it was felt that the meeting “75 He

held vithout the knovledta or observation of the opp
bh. Maattns of 2 Aurest 1967.
‘le met. wo th AMSIITP tn his hotel room (No. Ih* at the Vaaruna) at
1700 hours on 7 Aurust. ce discusset the events and talks of the p:eceding
tad

evening for sore tise, At approximately 1200, A26.AcH arrived,

us affati., ant Jo'net ve for a drink, AMLATH used this meeting to re-

a really

atate hie porit‘on concerning his destre for participation

arrnifieent action amines tno castio rar Free Having decited *7 this tine

that further ’scussicne ant cenriefin ia cf AMLADH shoul? take place with

a vpantensapeakios o/*, wa outlined the tea to maet for euch # purpose in

Porta, ALA SE did not Mive the (lea Uf too mam pecole being aware of his

tut acseet that It wcult be beat in orcer to

eomaration with PB:

\ijess an4 plana better, ant to te al

ali Wineelf to oxprece

date.

ua with Ate information tn the createat posattl



-that he felt that ho

* that he felt that he had vetter parform this r

4e persuaded AM HIP and AMLASH that {t wuld he best not to have

further meetings wv’ th them in Relsinzi, but that ve could continue our talke

ota AE also said

in zreater safety tn Stockholm and Paris. “he
shouldn't ae6 AMHIP too much more in Helsink!, as he

was beginning now to sake some public apperrances, and hie presence wap cow

eatabliched to “greryone in the city. Inctdentally, prior to Thursdays

2 August, AMLASH had purposely refrained fro paking any public appearances

at the Festival because (1) he and the other Cubane had been avare of the

ANSPELL group and their sinounced Intenttens, and (2) AMLASH did not feel

very disposed to play the spublig Relations” nan froa Guba and espouse the

“peace and friendship nonsenso", as he called it. However, AMASH also ate
ole to cone extent, as it was

de an: unnecessary

expected of h'm by Fidel, sad he ¢i4 cot wish to pr

chances _ unsat‘sfactory ‘reports te he eet tack hone conce:n'ny his lack

of cooperat!on with the a dele-ation. In makiny the srranzenents for

a Paris metins and further disouss! ons, KOAH satd, in response to the

question, thet ‘t would bo quito norm) for hir to te in Paric, as he had

alread, clearet eed with Fidel, with when, he rerarrad cavstically, one

dea that he

had to clear @ erything these dijo. He ther exprosead the

nt at AMSHIP's sugcections

Stoczhole,

would like to return to Paris, v

spend # fav daze there just relaxin’. Froc thers, “epanhagen, he voulé

return to Prezue for two days at rost, in order to pick up his lugcaze,

he intemtes to via’ t &

then cone as soon as doraible to Parts. the

hospital ér two, an azroed uron with Fitel, an’ enend a total of at least

te cura tatecah +

na veer thare, He eatd that !f he war te &

an Tenens than nacecearss

not wth te be awas foan

efforts, be


a sense of urgency in bec‘naing action aca:nst the

(He has, it ts Hal

rezize as soon as phenible.) AMHIP told us later that AMLASH aloo’ was

tnteseated {n a Pan Anes‘can Miant-based stevarcess, wh m he would have
ested to us that he thouzht the

come orer to-stay with hin, AMMIP s
etevardess night be eonnected with PEFEDS. He based thie apparently on

a remari which the stevardess rade concerning AMLASE's political frane of
mind last year, We answered that as far as we knew there vas no beste for

AMGIP's thoughts alonz this Line.) ASIP will try to zet the stewardess
fall nane for us. eee

Meating arrangenente for Stockhola and Helsink! were Laid on at

<this nesting. ANLA:H felt he had to stay until the end.of the Festival for
accidentally run Into several

cover purposes. ; Since AMHIP hed slrea
people he ynev, {t was azroed that he should leave town for Stockhole in

the near future. we vould remain behind until A'GASH left, cerving as an

's plens. It was arrenved

emergency contact in the event of chanzo tn Lia.
to meet AMUASH {f abeolutely necesear,, at either 1700 or 1200 each day

en restaurant in the center of the cit. Normal securit, maacures

for tha “axerzenc " meetin: were laid on, In itockhclx, meetin: arrancenents

be established, UGHIP departed Helstnk! 5 Auzust and te

for Paris will
preauns*l; staving at the Palace flotel in stoczhol= he will make arranzenents
for accomaodat‘ona for AMA thera, ‘e w’lh follow AMLALH te Stockholm,

inzs hetceen AM HiP/L and, Fallyec:.

S$. Meleink!

AMAII? and Pollucel were 'n publ ¢ tozether onl: three times for
any lencth of tine, Gther meetinss ware het{ ‘n thatr reepect‘ve hotel rooms.

Cne bresifact meet'ne (the Sth cf Susuat) was hel: in the near coserted

ato.


dinine room of the Veakuna Hotel at 1030. AM“HIP ant Pallucci met at least
ence a dar durtne the sojcurn fn Helsink:. AGH use! the nase vill‘an
Thompson, as cnetructed, vhen callin: HEFINGH te make initial contact.
There vere no 'nctdents of a secur‘ty nature obse:vet durine any of these
meetinzs.

6. Other Youth

609, The dest

This area covered hy cables(Hels Sch ane
and, actually, only possibilits amonz the partictpants’was Jose Venezaa.
However, both AMLASH and AMWHIP did not-want to becone involved with him
as they felt that this, in both their cases, a'ght comronise their
interests in AMLASH's returning to Cuba, AMsHIP felt, for example, that
Venegas would almost certainly connect his presence here with an attenpt to :
do something with AMLASH. AMLASH also felt that he did not vant to disclese
any indications of h's roal s:mpathies to Vene-as, tf he (AMLASH) were coing
to ratum to Cuba. et thout’ doing this, !t would be diffleult to vet any
reaat'ons or cpin'ons fre Yenazas, thoucht AMLASH, Yenezas, tt is felt
ty AMLASH, micht ver. possibl. he counted on at a late- cate if th’s was
destratle. An anoroach could then be worked out at that tine.
As reported, AMALH cone to the Festival as 8 “spec'al iele-ata,”
after hie er to Fidel was apnroved, AMILAYH cla se* to Pivel that he
wes fat ued and ster and neeiod a weed rest in Durcoe, ‘the Festival

provided the excuse, Fidel bit te ta-t, aad AMLAH got to Lurepe to soe

yfeal and

AMMHIP, hoa orfg:nal intention, AMHIP felt that this ts a b
honest explanation, It 18 intereatins to note that ne‘ther tne local
wervice,(4?, or any of the Cuban delegates he asxed, could atsraine the

umo that the Tubans

whereabouts of AMLATH. It to perhaps reasonable te

nee to anyone net From the r imme tiate

wore tol4 not to tell of h's pri

delecation, :
aeleraencs ae



o

AMGHIP has been nost helpful and cooperat:ve in establishing
the initial contacts with AMLASH, and he undoubtedly does have much
influence over AXLASH. AMLASH also trusts ANNHIP explicitly, as evidenced
by his resark tous that AUHIP was the oaly one vhom he felt that he
could fully trust and to whom he could speak openly. Of course, he did
epeik openly at length to us at the behest of WHIP, but it te also.
obvious that he doas not tell us everything. AMRIP-has given good advice
he has a tendency to interpret AMLASH's .

in the handling of ALAS, but,
remrke and feolinge subjectively, and to atterpt to maids uz a bit too

mach, it might te wise to eliminate in later portions of the talvs in Paris. -
With a Spantsh-spearing C/o, thie should not Fé too difficult to do, and
without alteaatin: AMSHIP: AMAHIP has no clandestine tia‘ning to speak of,

aa evidenced ty hie actions in this case, However, to his credit, he

responds read‘ly to directions in this area, aid follovs rather well suczestions
for adding to the security of the neetin-s. His remark ateut the

advisability of keepin; his old friend AXCONCE T/L out of the operation or

from any imowledzs thereof, is gratifying, AML? alse has gently explained

to ua, that while he ts 2 cutan‘at heart end loves the cubina, they simply
cannot be trusted to xeep secrets anong any of their friends who, for no

real teeted reasons, they consider safe and diecreet. As a ‘zeneral

Statement, we feel that AMHIP te a 00d security riek operationally, and
that with more exposure to the cara, will hecome a ood and useful asset
eee any ctreunstance, He is, hovever, sonevhat. su‘ conse ously

Bul fect've eiout hie evaluations of MOATR, fe ts completel: henert, ant os

Sle amount of his own mone , not ta mention ‘tra, ta this

uatns a conside:

operation, “we onl heje his fateh nocr y:



8. Evalcation of

{al comments forwarded in catli

Our in’

(oS comin enebansed.

have seen too Little of, and eannet converse in the native lanvuaze of
‘

AMLASH, to maze any stronsly valid assessnen’ of hip to date. In the
second meot'ns with AMLASH, Le wee consideratl, more relaxed than in the
first, but dust as {ntense atout his couvictions...or seen'nzly 60, AMLASH

stated that, having dec'ded to return to Cuba, he would enrole ‘n an

officers’ refresher t.pe course at Matanzas in an effort to renew eld
Army contacts, re-assert h‘s position as a maior im the fevolytionar; Army,
ani attexpt to re-establish sone recognition and following in Arm and other

Government circles.

For the sake of covpleteness, we repeat our ecrmants regarding

AMLASH fron{Hals |1S09:

He apoears capable of rash, thouzhtless, violent
action under the strain of provocation, tense sitvat‘ons
or frustration. For exenpla, be stated to us that last
durin: a period of defection and frustration, he ha? con-
templated su'c'de, Although AMAT appeare’ to concede

* gome valid’ ty to our arqunents for plannin; and for
careful! pronared actions, we feel that he will present
aifftault control and directtonal problens tn any op
s'tuaton, He hineelf estate? several times that ho
ts nct the type to oft tivht, but prefers sclut‘ons
to problens folent, posit:ve sctions. ACA H

> ansone. s according
pverjo ed to sac hin, and talred
sut Sec not poss‘bls

much atout mn, many t
to comment at this tire XEAH's capacit for

m

loval{t: to friands or eeuser, ner his will nness to
gee 9 fob throu-h. Howe AMP assures us that hd
whec STS.H aa a hell fo somet! hawill, @

ant tnow at this potnt.

AMEDD alao told us that In discussions sul sequent te our meetings

with ALA, he expressed the hope that "S11" aad bte friend (8) 'n Paris
alll have a really fruitful, forceful idea and pian of action for hin to

td he might drep the whole idea and not 30 back,

follow. Cthervive, he

<1}.

etenhaumnae


tut to forset the whole. problen, leave the Tuban fol¢ quiet, yy and work

in Paris or elsewhere, forgetting completel; Cutan protlens and Cuban

politics.
, *_—_—" ne also told us on Sunda; that he was, truly surprised whea

AMLASH said he wanted to go back ant Fight DDHHTP vas gure, es were Wes \{

taut he vould defect, period. AMLLSH told AMMHIP that he could not 5

the point of making & statenent regarding ‘aefection and the state of affaire = _

in Cuba, and thea accepting a dole in Miaxi. Nor “could he see “ang use in

ee : propasanda efforts in Latin “america or Burope. Later, after oar talks

wth hin, BLASH told ‘AMGHIP & Little asttertat storys, Le Ges that he

veld not vant to mke-s public defection statenent, pecause of the mee

protable repercuss‘ons:aza'ns* his friends in Cuba for uo .icod reasons

‘Tis area of thinking needs to te exanined at length in Paris. ‘A Spantsh-

speaking ¢/0 atcht wall do the trick.

STOCEHOLM: : :
g. Travel to Stockhole. :
ACHP departed Helsinst for Stockholm on L August. Poth ACIP

‘and AMLASH felt that they had been together enough in Felsink:. QOHIP

aieg ran onto « refugee newspaper friend of hie in Helsinkt wha wae

quite curious as to why AMSHIP was there. AASH departed Helsinx! in the

afterncon of 7 Aurust: we took the eae Fltuht unbevnowmat to AMEN H.

No problens were encoun* aretyine at stocrholn, © 100" “he next

*
tus after UCATH te thac tr. Roth XC ArH and AY CLIP etavet 9t the

af a cane al nature

Palace Hotel, room 972 ant $70) rarpactivel:

vere hel4 in our ketal rosa (the elt) ant we’ the pe eau connate

Te was of stows that MEU bat mc oe ia mire. Re



subfect of Suba at anstine, with a question, ew:

ss of the context of the central discussion, =t vas “cr

4, rena
the talke in Stockholm that AGEIP revesled that MCA: had tole
Marengo, Forellon, Venesas, ant the "Hayor of ES 2 ama DGS

| Veides-44}, (in Heloinki) that he was seeing AMMHIP. In Helsinki, he

also told the nayor. Dosinsues to tell Raul that he was going on his.
present itinerary, and that hewanted & réfresher course in the dray vhen

he returned how.

” CoPaNHAGE: -
—_———

10, Travel to, and Step in Gopenharen.
ACASH end WGHIP took SAS (Licht 07 to Copenhagen on the after- -
noon of 10 Aumuet, In speaking at length about neotin: in Paris, CASH

felt sure that there would be no protien in rettine pamission to ~tsit

Paris after returniny to Prazue. He felt that he better not visit Par

first, as it might cance cone enue ‘nterest ‘n Prawe Sutan ctreles
as to vhy be vas avay so lone. He alco hai soxe trouble in <ettin= the Aire
Line to aprrove hie side trips to Fteckhola and Zopenharen. “hay wanted .
him to fl direet to Pracue fron Hels'a¥!. He refused their requests,

to ctockhola and Copenhaces (or

nil said that he would pay his cun w
the difference) ‘f nve¢ te. Tats he finally had to do, for watch ANAHIP
footed the St11. (perhass ve should later abscrt). (se felt that this
abllity to nay for the extra routing aight cause gore suspiclon ancag hie
colleavuss, ALAM aatt Snot, but ve are not so sure. Porhaos he can tet}
than, shoul the te curtous, that AGHEP patd the PILL, a3 all know hee

hag none, andhae. tn fact, pats Rte Mafore for MCAT uring Ue tire

ofthe Mateses ravines)



“Danish food and snips, ant beer at the atudent's inn, Raercetiroen ( tn :

VW. Copechaxen, 10 August 1952.
AMGHIP and AMLASH arrived as scheduled !n Copenhagen and cbtained

rooms at the hichnon/ Hotel. AMCHIP phoned HBP DH 96 planned and |

* tn turn contacted them ty phone at the Aichmon? st 1215. A meeting wab

arranged for 2000 at the bar of the Te:minus Hotel. After a-drink, the

petty retired to Divan I for dinner, Apparently the spell of Tivolt, |
Tivol!), served to nellow AMLAGH. He for'the first tine appeared to talk
to us as a friend, rather then as“a PBPAIME representative. . During i:
+ St intervals, AMLACH tatked shout

supper, and for mest of the evenin:

‘iaeelf, his thouzhte, and problens. The evening vse well vorth it,.‘a
: : i
terms Of the rapport and instzht xatned.

5 Thouchts and Personality.

12y MEA,
AMAL feols hastcally that he would tke to live tn a verld in
peace under an acceptable political pystax, practicing medicine, thus

destre to holp the less-fortunate people, and from

giving expreseton to
he

this to find -happ‘ness for hinselC, soneth! exe, dut which heretofore
hea eluded hin, As a younz student he vot ints the etrurgle a-ainst
Rattote witheut think!ns ruch atcut the future, particularly that ‘t

could be less than aeq@fect, He scorn fount that the ooposin: parties ‘n

Cuba, and tn partteuler the comuntuts, vere not atout to brine true peace

an! econtentaent to the pecple, tit rather throu ‘anne vanent an! poor

plannins, hat qiented unnerensar; hardships for the ponte, After his
®

ficht'ne time was over (cr so ne thoevht), WAH became @ student a.ain

ant leader of the FO. “hie 4 tf not eatref, Bom an! he souckt to lewe

pilities al! tovethe:, ant return ts aettene, the prittiaal ol wate,



Litar, leader by the people

hovever, and the acceptance of AKASH ns

rether than a docter (Hello Comandante: not, Hello Doctor!) forced

JMLADI to reconsider his future, and to decide that he sist Flee Guta or

: fight azainst shat he considers a ruinous future for his countr: an¢

her people. This tine, hovevar, he hopes to make the operation"
: quecesafol, and never azain subject the patient to another each ordeal.
‘then when he is sure thet the political afd doctal outlook for the
Cuban people ant the country are sound, “he would Like to try once more
‘to eater private Life as a dootor. He is not sure, hovever, that this
“Will ever cone about. AMLASH was-elso quite frank, ‘yo ‘thought, in hts
| eonveraation with us concerning his views on the PBAPDG position vis-2-
vis Latin Anerica, (And, although he bad nothing to say which has not been
nchanted

teresting to hear from a dil

patd by nany before hin, they vere
cuban revolutionary.) He feels that PaPKDG ts stuply not getting "through"

to the youth and stuents of Latin Amortca, as are the Somauntste, and for

this sixple resem atone, the next ten rears (when thece students become

uz lose

the polit’cal and econoate Leaders in Latin America) will a

the strussia for Latia Amarica. ‘e renltad tr usin= the ol Une that

PRRITME realtzes onl: too well tote. that there ware sericur short.com.nva

- tw our Latin frertean aolicy for # mater of ea:s And thet nov ve are

woter what ve can to correct thir, Howevery iets art cur pote, (gate

influence

with tonue n chee) to atterst to alter these coniitions 0
*

svarnnents {a

future events ty corm Bente the backe af the entat re

the various Latin Axerscan countele 1, wo wust tave the often

alov, latortous path of verttng Urcuch thee povarnments, hoverer bat

the ney be, fn our attenpta to guide ant ‘nfluenco the arate of Letin



* act forestully ent soot, there woul:

_ Communist vietim and thereby a loss of another opportunity for PBPRIME. i

American youth. AMLASH seid that he ‘understood why ve take this pofat

of view, tut faadtiiasttdent tf we intended to win the strugzle, we must +

do as the Commntats do, and disresasd the a:chate and dooned old-line

governsents {n tatin dnerica. so azreed that this was undoubtedly the
more agressive vay’ to deal with the problea, tut that such | mathode vould

leere ws open to the old-faxtliar barges of interference in the tuternal

CASH sutled ieee replied that froma

affairs of sovereign countries.

practical viewpoint ‘this didn't make any difference, for 1f we didn't

da't be any opportunities thare for us

to be open to snvihing! He then cited Venezuela as the next oriows

Obviously AMLASH was correct in much of his thinking, but rather than etand-

tng still with our shoes untied, we gave hin the tall by soltetting fro

5 a former student leader and politician, any tdess he might have
nds of Latin

hin, 3
for coateting the Tonmunists- in the atrurgle for th
He replied that he vould be zlad at any tine to disucae

American youth.
thie problem and to offer what ideas and sugzestions he could. . -

Ae 8 result of the éecusstons of this aveninz, we felt that

nt

AMLAZH now was weruinel: intarestes tn zetting Ccka out of {ts 9:

predicament vith the active ald of P2F.DG. ACAI soened more nincere

and interestet in discusetns Als thewhts an/ protlans with us than at
(or at Least

an: prev aus tine. He no dout? ax'mmet over on his on

detlinet to veranl this te we) ite recort 6a asestdent of ther. The

Pall stery cf thle pert.4 fre hes 637%@ woul te most Interesting.

Heweve-, we felt that 4 f acuselon ef thie particular subject req ret the

rer kt due acne te

use of Fpanteh ant


As a matter of record, MCAS stated during the evening that be

a's Rea Bella at one tixe and knove hin more than casually

had not Ale
He felt that the ean beare strict vatehing by the Vest 29 measure of
protecting its taterests in.developments ‘p Alzeria. AMLASH thowht

Ben Bella was a cleve> san, devious, ane ambitious, and not to be taken too

Literally at his word.
In dealing vith AMLASH, ‘one trait of his vhich confronts the C/O

at-every trun is bis teorpermental resctiona over points which would

generally be considered minor. For example, at one tine when we were

discussing the varicue aspects of AMLASH's future role in Cuba, we used

the tern “assassinate”. The use of this tern, “e later learned from

AMANIP and from AMLASH himself, was most objectionatle to the Lattar, and
ha was visibly upset. It was not the act he objected to, but rather rarely

the choice of word used to desertte it. "Eliminate" was acceptable, but

obviously the ter “assassinate” had 3 diatasteful connotation. Pron

dtecussions with AMMITP, this lable of *anssosin® had teen civen to

DOASH after soe of hie eccapaden acainat Pattate suppor tere tn the

pre-Castro era. Another exenple, which AMGEN discussed vith wey occurred

during @ aeotin: ‘nm Merteo City tn Yareh Wh, when a KURLEE sald &

AMLASH, “I'm prepared to help -ow in any we wtunin ny power", seco: ding

az hts shoulde:e tn a manner

ts hia, eh

to AKAHT?, ACALH Teta turns,

of caying, “0 T neat helo fren htat® chess exuules ara pointed out
p

here tn orser to Indicate the tecree of 3

tn AXLACH, ant to note that however tedtoca this att tute mar became to

ary lo adjust cos's

Une c/a, tt te, From perecnal experience, quite nec

approach accordingly, in order be secure WCAM's eastmun cconerattion.


AYLAGH has been <tren AY-NTS's hctel io Paris, Franklin Hotel, Z it

room there for

19 Rue Puffault (telephone 7-0 Sol). A‘wHIP will reserve

lensed in Faris, “e

‘ AMLASH, who ear come there directly after he hi

also had another ocntact addrose.in the form of the office of a Jeveler a|
i
I

friend and business contact of AY-HIP's- osentlatt, 20 Zit

(ratephone Gai38) . Goneiats numt er has not been given to AMLASH.

In Macussing security precautions with AMHI?, it !s obvious, that he

still {2 not possessed of a good sense.of security ty normal clandestine

ops standards. This, however, can be improved over a period of time.

: Note: Sutsect expressed interest in obtaining

: ‘Gxpert instruction in use of s!lenced-equiped
rifles and in use and handling of plastic
explosives. This can be handled fron France
on priority basis, it ts felt, after preliainary
discuss‘ons in Paris.

Bvente of 1? Aurust 1%,

Accordinz to prior arrangenents with AMHIP and AMGASH, AMRIP :
would pee AMLASH off to Jurich from Yastrup Airport on 1? Aumust, then
tare 6 late afte:nccn fil -ht dom to Faris, As It turned out, hewevor,
AMLASH vas able to Look a pasease on a ouranian Ati] nes (Taro) flicht

to Prarug, via Zest Perlin's Schoenfel't A.inort. AMHI> later took

the early eventn: PLicht to Paria we toor tho 11YO AF fl-sht the saze

nicht,

In Paria, AMSHIP took a roca (12) a8 planned at the Uistel Prenklin,

’ where ha sena‘ne! throuchout his etay in Maris, Ho also boom! a room

for WAIH, se arrived in rerte at tie, If duguet, boodtns a reo

bomlin, f sue havesuelararde (Ad

(PLL) at the He



" obtain use of a-Station safehe:

“1S. Bvents of 13 Aucust 1962.
0a the morning of 1} August, we checked ‘ato EXFINCH to discuss
the Paris meetinzé with Peter J. Frnington. Thru his cood office ve were
? AMLASH,

able to arranze for precauticoary surveillance of 4%-HIP an?

ant effect other anrenents as

necessary, The cooperation end-help of the Paris Station was excellent.
Following this meeting, ve vent to # fsall, bistro near our ‘hotel,- - phoried
AMHIP, and erranged for a meeting tn cur hotel roca-at 1630.

Tate sieeting took place in our hotel room (#41) at the Hotel

Roblin, at 1930, .The-purpose vas merely to meet AMHIP and revasdure hin
that arrangements for AMLASH's meeting were la!d on, se also mide
arrangements to give hin his expenses for the trip and account for sane
during a meating the folloving day, ‘This vill permit hin to leave for
Milan without delay at the close of our business with KCATH. Re was

getting "nervous" he called it, and will he sled to zet th's business

over and done. Ye avreed. “e wanted to resain until che conclusions of
the talks w'th AMLASH, hovere>, for he felt that he could te. cf use ‘fa

handling AMLANH. +e avree’, Hadid not, of ccurse, vant to be in on

Mut Just to te on hand to utverhts

any operational discuss’ ens,
teepermental "ohar-o%.

Ho wes ver anx'our to meat <allace t. Groves (n.order to

potnt out to h'n tn Avance axe of qe res in MILM's pdroonalit,.

In talking to us; AMSHI a9.¢ (hat 8 person vit the baqreroun’ of

WCAIH, must te hancted ts a certatn satiner, anf cane, howtld respend,

AMAfy told us that while he ©@ of cou: wut MEA Gi, he ateo

Fea set Cat he ta cf a # ferent taceeriand ant aasenuns{ flatter 7)

ret prohre ant

Unen atther we or himee:t, ant that "moar Le get

te

cworetate, the protien aust teeter to a cortan way. Ha ate



that ALAS ts ver. proud and independent. He does not want to fee! he has

to take help from anvone., AK»HIP said that tifs is a rather naire way to

reaen, one must to careful

look at it, hat AMLASH does, and for th

sing bia, <e eaid that we understood this, an? vere

net to appear to be b
willing to ‘eXimoe oer argunents {n any ranner secessary to get AMLASH's
cooperation, tut that eventually AYIASH suet be made to real!ie that,
though he te of no Little importance to us, he is afte: all, the only one
man vith one man's resources. .

MEHIP continually stressed the point that to work with people
‘like AMLASH, it was necessary to have then first accert a person either
by personal contact over a period of: tine or on the recommendation of 8
good friend, He felt thet while !t was necessary for us to spend sone tine
Deconing acquainted vith AMASH, it also night be necessary for Grovery

to so slow at first," Th's, we to AVSHIP was all right, up to a point,
tut that we felt quite enouch time had been spent with LAH alread,
and that the meetings in Par‘s vere zo'ng to cet dom to business quickl:,

and proceed as noceasarz to conclude business as rapidly as poss‘ble.

se felt that AK-HIP uniterstoot our pots

During this talk, AMSHEP a-a‘n expraesed the feeling that if

Suta fs net retuned to freedon with’n tus sears, he waa voing to set

{8 or Southern California, and forget the

up tus‘ness persarently in P

y of auch a di

nal?

‘403 of returning, He was oby:ous povet +, th etaion,
as he ts a real Cuban patriot. or a0 we helleve,
ye acreed to contact AMWHI? be telephone at his hotel at LAX
7

oa Mi August (Tuesday). subaequentl; @ seetiag at 1700 in our Actel roos.


15. Bvents of 1k Aurust 1962.

Ae agreed, we called AXidHzP at bis hotel at 1700 on 1h Auzust
and arranzed © meetin: for 1700 {n cur hotel roor. At the 1700 reeting
AMGHIP informed us that 2:27 had arrived ae proaised froa Prawte about
nooat!ne, and vas already ingi{ring about a nesting tive with *the man
from Washington".’ AVHTP vas told that *the man froa cash‘neton®, (hon
thay im the future called "Jaime" as ther could not readii: pronounce
Grovery's true first naxe) was not able to arrive hefore that afternoon,
and that 8 necting with hin could not taxe place before the 16th. Also,
AMAHIP was reminded that he hinself hed stated that !t vould be test for

hin (AMMIIP) to talk to Jaine first in order to explain AMA's personality.
AMGHIP was unhappy that this meeting could fot take place imediately,

but waid he would explain the natter to MTALH. ‘This neoting, it ts noted,
took place Initially at a enall cafe across the atroet from our hotel,

fo that we could finger AMHIP to tuo surve!Llante of the Parte Station.

‘The two prinetples then retire+ te our hotel roou for the resa‘nder of the
meeting, “Ye sa'd to AMVHIP that we vou! check fn with him ty phone the
following day and inform h'n whether there vas an; chance of Jaime

arriving on that ¢a., the LSth.

At this neetlay, UlHIP wea atzo pat~ 230,00 to cove: hotel

bills for him ant ACA:H {n Hotain’t, ‘rpenhacen ant ‘tocchola.

lf, Events of th tusist 127

7 * .
re phoned Uf ath shots! et -1320 to infor him enat there

waz no chan e ‘n olanz ant thet the nest ve coul4 do was to call hin

asaca that evenns, Av 7 se that he welt be aut all evening

Arrangements vere Uien na AL AMOWIP gtont+ call ua at our hotel at

och


? d.d call as

2200, Subsequently, arate Teed, anc was ‘aformed that be could

plan to case to our room toncrrov, the 16th, at 0900. the hour bothered

hin (tod early) Sut he said he couls rake ‘t.
and us net to

Later the same evening, Kruingtca, Grove!
discuss plans for the meetings tomorrou, At this meeting Kmington
disclosed that hts teas had detected vhat vas bellered to be surrellance
of AM-HIP and-AMLASH. To be positive he plained te have the meeting the

next day survetlled. Grovery acreed to cone at 0900 for preliminazy talks

with QOTP.

15. Brents of 14 Aucust 192,

Grove: a with!n five miutes of appo.nted tine at

car hotel room, AMHIP arrized Later at 101%, apolicizto: for hie tardiness
(4 late evening!). Breakfast was provided and, after introductor; anean'ties,
the tvo began the:r talk, in Spanteh, The talke terminated at 1730.
The second moeting of the day vas postponed until 1500, as ALAN was not
feeling too well. i
Later at the Station, Kyaington revesled that he now beltered
the noming meeting had been surve!lled and that efforts vere betn: nate
to detemtine who waa responsible, It waa read!ly setatlizhed that !t vas i

no Suban or Sortet exercise, tut rather ene ty ona cf the French services

too the meetin-a new ant

or local poltoe. S'nco it was puintless tc
the address of the eafehouce has ret toon mentioned vertall , the

« liance

: *
eecited to continve as plannet. barca well foward ezcount of

amt malerte-aa cued as penaiite, (Ses ve Lert

Chet Ova Taareefanee” four enet aoe St haw teens

coreg’ “ence, an Ue putcont cf the wursetllance way another Usrcet, vet

w Hesea: ta sent fare renact ehoul reenive

wee et



and we arrived at the eafehousa (1.9°>'s rue Spontint, .
At 1615,

rover;

IVI) ahead of AMLASH and ais HIP. A tape recorder vas installed.

AMLASH and SMAHIP arrived. * ghortdy after introductions, Growery _

AMLASH were talking business in Spanish. {fier about 30 etmites, ve took

ee AWAIT? out of the flat on the pratense of buring fo0%s ‘a order that the

wo (Bripeiples aould talk freely. Procuring food and beer, we returned

etter @ two hour absence, and nade a cold sugper for tre four. ‘the neeting

~terwinated about 1930, AMLASH and AMSHIP Leav ins
at 1000 the following az

save 15 xinutes before

use ‘Arrenzesents had been made for a meoting

for farther talks, and peginning fo S/s trainint.
17. Bvants of 17 Auzust 1967.
At 1000 Grovery met vith KLUM for vevera? hours. Arrangensnts

were made for AMLASH to return to the safchouss fot _/i training that

(See 5/s teaining report for account of aeeting.)

trernéon at 1100,

Before breakin; up, arrangements were mace for & continuation of the o/*

training the following day.
nte of 16 August 1967.

(cee report for account of train'ng th's aeeting conducted

at the aforenant'oned aafehouse.

18.

Aceount of datriefing of AAG during

ALL datriefine of UCASE

)

this meat:ng and others tote filed ty Srowery.

ty Jrover> van conmuate! “n the Spanteh Lanaw

te of 19 Au tst 1077.

a
var helt at 1992 at cafehouss,  Cseount of Reetins to
a

he tneluted (nh Fe. ta rant o,


70. Syente of 70 Au-ust 1962.
Kpaingten Growery picked us up at: Yadalaine church at 0500,

: and proceeded-to rendesrous with AMLASH. Counter-surve:llance detected

_Ro apparent observation of the pilokup of ua. The four then proceeded by
oar to the Arky Air corps Support Elenent at St. Andres, for te desonstratioa
and inatructicn tn plastic explosives, ‘The classrooa work and the field
deconstration Lasted ant!l 1130, at which tixe the four proceedéd tack _
to-Paris. IMGAEH vas let out of the car in the suburte aid told to
take a taxt back to his hotel. Kymington took some snapshots of AMUASH

arecety'bz th's Instructfoa, These are not too satisfactory, but neverthe-

: i
lees, will be enlarged and forvarded for the flles.
a drink and

The partic'panta met later that evening at 7100 for
KEAGH seemed quite

erit’que and comments of the days activitt
satiofied with the desonatrations, but waa interested in having emaller
explosive paciages with nore force, and a renote control method for
detonating thas. The meeting was short and broke up at 2200, It was
azreed to weet onco more on 22 August for a fins} briefing sesson at
Orovery's hotel roox (in the crillon) at 1200,
TL. Events of 27 Aumuet 1967.

WEASH came alone and on tine to this meeting, A tape recorder

waa in operation, Atout ona hour vas spent on a reviev of ©/%, followed

ty requirements, ant ‘asre to be performed or looked into upon AC ALT 's
: .

return, (‘ee drovery's report for tasks and S/i report for this section’

of meets.) Arcancomenta for enerrene, contact tn Paris vere eet up

sf Pare tiation, AY RTP ant

Le ne the phone of # contract (UPA

nvemerte fo: a meet ine at Queen's’ s® for L900, 3) ducust.

se mate


= of discouregensnt and perhaps despondency.

At the morninz ceeting, WHT? aid that AMLAGH wanted to see
+ The meeting vas arransed for 1300 at the -

us of a matter concemin:
rue Spontin! sefehouse, ‘This nesting took only a fev zimtes as fe

problem was minor, A'LASH and AM-HIP departed the safehouse at 1325.

Wo left a Littie after. This was the last time we vere to cee either
AMLASH or AMMHIP ‘tn Burope.
93. Events of 27 Avrust 1962.
© ALAS departed fer Prague. <e Left Paris at 10L5 aboard PAL ng

for- New York.

7 8. Miscellaneour Comments on faze, Personal'ties, and Actions in Paris,

entiall; that which it had

- AMLADI's attitude in Parte was
been during the previous contacts in Scamfingy!a, that 1e, changeable ae
the weather, varying fro occastonal flashes of vit and mirth to degrees
He was generally receptive and
interested in procedures and conversations durinz the meetings and during
periods of instruction, He mxes little attempt to ¢/eriise his Ceelings,
ehould he becane tired, bored, or d'sinterestet, His coc’al graces are
not the eharpest honed, fle can, hovever, ba reascnet vith, even in acoe
AGHIP vas partteuiarl: effacct:e fn reachins hie

of his contrary moods,
shen he deceribne

du:iny these. 9 are in complete avreewant vith Ao
an that, AMCAH not onl:

AMLACH as hatn~ full of complexes, 2.t furth
scurted

tut “t fs felt that he “a cane: al? 9:

has comlexce as such,

“th ate thewshts orosumatl ecout pretlens ‘utaa, ant {a often meen nly

‘mensa*le cf matutain nc hte “ateast on tines about hia for any len th

a



of tne, If one ta d'ecuss!a” a, however, ha obviously is very

tntdrested. therefore, tt xightwell te that he 's actually:so pre-
occupied with thoughts about problens at home, that sll else is secondary:

and treated accordingly. <hen, oa occasion, be “opened up" a bit with ua,

1t was obvious that he had done, and was doing, @ great deal of. thinking

ahout Cuban problers, It may be that Orovery will have much more to say

“oa thia point, as their discuss!ons were in AMLACH'S ative.tongue. Oa

nary occasions, AMLASH is rather exasperating to deal with, but.we feel
that: thia te a trait of his which {8 4 normal facit of bis personality,
and not assumed to try the patal of his case officére, Ye may be wrong,
bat doubt 1t.

27. Fhrateal Appeara
AMLASH te about S'11", ve!ghs atout 175 lbs., dark wavy hair,

thinning nottcably on top aed usually needs conting: trovn ees, small,

almost pectulant nouth, small nose, pale ecuplexton, eyes are a little

snall for his face and ver intense in expression. He prefers dressing
taformaliy, and ts prone to wearing Jackets with no tie, (He could

mingle with the typical exall town corner-loungere without difficulty.)

when dressed un, he presents « good appearance In a masduline way, and
apparently {roa AMHIP's stories, does quite well with the wonen, Concerning
the question of h‘s being a henosexual, ve cannot aay whether he has «
hidden Vent in th's direction, but ‘fhe does, he 6 not at any rate, &
purtet tut rather AC-07, : :

28, Lanvui

Nattve pantah, fatr ta rood cncliah, ‘ut w th L'altl

vocabulary.

Ke can be miccossMlty etw'th ven. cnolish, Sut tt hae to te
done slowi: ant vith taste constrected sentences, 7! in not poss tle to
be artloulate with Ain, (fhe 1a expected to grasp the full meanin- of the

eonversat ton,

SMP TPR POMPEII WRC IOP DN SO OT ECO TI DO OEP ONCE ASA cee NTC


is separated fran bis wife, and state? that since he ts

going to unde: take to work against the recine, he could not go back to her
Lf he wanted (which we don't think he dces) 29 she has been too outspoken
in her dislike of the Castro rezime’ and of her desire to get out of Cubs.
AMLASH'S mother Lives with hia as sho fa divorced fron his father,

2 : AMLASH's father is in the tailoring business -and has recently married

a girl pany years his junior. AMLASH does not approve.

30. Girl Friends. 1 a

: MLASH is on zood terms with'a Pan Aneriecan stevardess of French
to us that he thousht she was

descent. vho fe baced tn Hlamt, AMNHIP s
with us, but we replied ve reall; did not know, AMLASH also {2 friendly

with the Cuban dancer Son'a CALZ20, whoa he telephcned from Para to give

the return date to Havana,

31. Pastl

AMLASH Likes nt phtolubbing art dancing. He is wleo tntarested
to a l'n'ted devree fn architecture and hirtorical tu‘ldin:s and sculpture.

Tt ‘s tnteresting to note that AMCHIP was reluctant to ansver
man; questions about AMLASH'a private affairs. He Celt thet th » was not
In good taste (somewhat) and most of the infornation in this report was
obtained by ellettation rather than dirset questions.

in Fart.

32. AMUADH ts Ort rinal Schestul,
MCAD was interested in coming to Parts, axocuting his buatness
with us In the flret three days, then checkin’ !nto the Cuba Houee cr @

spall hetel on the left tank, and ecctal!atne with the cuhans at their

Swhaece. tn Parte, Ne also wante! to span! enre time on the


‘\

{several dave), as he felt, on so he tol! AMHIP; {t may be sone time

before ke would seo this area again, As it turned out, schedul'nr for 5

the Grover meet! S/i tra'niny, ant plast‘cs dencnetvaticns precluded

his taxine the Ziviera trip, and slso postponed hie seoin= his cuban
friends. He finally went to the Bbarss on Tueedsy, 21 Aurust te make
vhat contacts he felt vere nécossary, As it turned ovt, Sranatzes and”
most of the nen were avay on vacations, etc., 20 that his late showing at
the Scbase7 vas not a pioblen at all. So plas had been laid on for his
eatertainnent by the Zbassy, and no one, it turned out, vas expecting
hin at ang definite tine after Bis Leaving Prague. He felt mach better,
WGHT? reported, after he had sade the Sbassy appesrance and Learned
the atove facts. :

33. Money Banked by bass.

At oar last meeting with AMHIP on 23 Auzust, hi @ that

AMLASH had’ gtven him $500.00 to be banked in Parts or elsewhere aga‘nst
ting to note that wh’le UfHIP said that

a ratay day. It ta also inter
any effer of money to AMLASH would be an affront to hin, AMLASH readily
alloved ASIP to pick up the tabs fer the hotel rons anc all expenses
tncurre4 during the trip, tneleding a muster of nev oleces for hia wardrobe,
and the plane tickets to Prague fron farts. AMGHT? sald that when they
dine! toecether on 72 Auzust, AMASH ins’ste! on pickin- up the tah, stating
ahat he felt he should wet this cne, then exoresce® turprise at the

exvense of L'vine tn Parte. Neither cid ACA sear te verry when 't was
.

we tho picvet uo several tate {n Scandinavia. Punn sense of otlivat-ons

and f'nancea!

=}:
