# 104-10177-10053

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10177-10053

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIDICAIION

PRCEESSING ACTION

BYBAT_

SECRET

RETURN TO

Background Use

Do Not Reprocal

Chief,

SB

lig

erio.

FACH

SANCT

Chief of Station, Pretoria] 12-12

AEMAKEUP OZ

RETION DUVIRED - REFERINCES

Reference:

Eat 2521, 20 Way 1068

A9 INCISMS KIOURED

GET CAUTO DESK

CAN AUCA INOLIING

Attached are three reports, as explained in para 2 of

Relerence, on the following toples;

Marina and Lee Harvey OSWALD

Soviet Defectors

& Kenneth H. PHILBROOK

- Herewith

atta smarts above rem copies each

Distribution:

2-C/SB w/atts

Document Number

1206 - 438 B

fOr FOIA Review on FEB Z9Il

As of Nov 73 file revlew, these attachuents

removed for fistsay filing:

OLLAEMAKEUP DEBRIEFING - Final Roports,

CIA, April-July 68, Pretoria

CROSS RIHRENE TO

GROVE - EXCLUDED FROM AROUTI OMORAN AND BEASTICATI

22(AZPA)-2534

5 June 1968

CLASSUICATIOY

SECRET

HOS FILL NUMBER

746-478/2

---

## Page 2

14-0000

Marina and Los HarYoy OSwALD

The subject of tho OStALls was introducod into tho

Intorrogation during a discussion nbout the diffloulty a

Sorjot citizon, tho marrlos a foreignor, encountors in

attempting to loato the USSR if tha KGA chooses (for somo

roason not to pormit tho soviet citizan to omigrato.

Subjoot stated that it goos without saying that prior to

rocolving XGB's

sanction not a single Soviet oltizon, wbethos

ho or sho is marriod to a foroignos, would bo allorod to

leavo

,the USSR.

Askod 1f the case of Marina OSWALD's departuro fros

tho Soriot Union was typical, Subject repllod that hor

doparture from the Sorlet Unton vas noithor typical nor usual,

particularly in vlon of the fact that hor husband, Loo Harvey

OSWALD, Has a vory strango individual.

He had beon in Cuba,

and then came to

the Soriet Union not'as a tourist, but as

an Amorican defoctor who ronounced his Amorican citizonship

and attemptod to baoome a Russian oitizen.

This in Itsolf

Is unusual for,an Amorican - it 1s not typical, and vory raro

for an Amarloan to do so, and Subject belloved that an

•Amorican doing what OSWALD did (seaking Soviot eitizenship

and renouncing American oftizenship) could only do so because

ho was a traitor.

In ansvar to a roquest for his opinion ragarding the

OSHALD case,. Subjoct said that all of his information was based

only on what was known to everyone who read the nowspapers

aftor the KENNEDY assasination and on what ho read in a con

donsed version of the Warren Report whilo he was In Wastern

Europe.

When pressed for his porsonal opinion ho said it was

• тогу

unusual situation.

Normally a Soviot citizon (11ko

Marina) would not bo allowed to laavo the Soviot Union, In

trot tho Sorlat authoritlos would try in some way to contince

tho oltizon not to loave.

However, if a Sorlot marriod a

foregner.

and insisted on laaving he or sho could sinays, as

a last resort, be refused an oxit visa.

Thoro havo boon

casos whoro a Soviet oltiion married a foreigner and rocoirod

howevor, in such cases the soviet authoritios

bave conceded to the oilt visa requests only becauso they felt

that the foroign spouso may bave had some influence, and could

haro croated adverse publiolty for the Soviet Gorernment had

tho oxlt visa not been grantod.

This vas definitoly not so

1Tị OSHALD's caso.

OSWALD could not insist that Marina bo

granted an exist visa since bo, was not in a position to do so.

and consequently the Sovlot authoritias vero not compolled to

do so unless they spocifically vantod to lot hor go to America

wIth OSWALD.

When askod to still further elaborato on bis bollors

regarding the caso,

Subject stated that in this caso (OSWALD's),

Subjoet. couldn't guess.

and in ordor to come to any kind

of a

valla conclusion he would have to know somathing (factual).

uhich ho doesn't. His opinion, hoveror, 1s strictly an

opinion

without any basis of fact.

Ho

thinks that KGB was

definitaly Intorosted in OSWALD while the lattor rosidod in the

USSR.

To prosuma that OSVALD could bare livad in tho Soviet

Union

as a simplo Amorican is excludod.

Subjoot belloros that

RIBAT SECRET

#: + 0693558- 55016s

1/BR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-2-

tho XGD kopt OSSALD In "thalr flold of vision" and

undoubtedly workod with his.

To subjoct 1t 1s unthinkablo

that the XGU would misy such al

opportunity,

sinco 1t

alWays cOnsIdOrS USIng POrSonS (such ay

OSHALD for work

o1 thor dirootly in intolligenco, as an agont, or in any

othor say "to infllot damago to

tio Host".

Askod whethor the assasination of Presldent KEiNEDy

ooulu bo considorod as

"boing damaging to

the

Wost?

• Subjoct

ansuorod in the affirmativo.

Subjoot oxplained that the oilstenco of a government

guoh.as

the Unltod Statos 1s a throat to tho Sorlot rogimo.

Tho Unltod Statos 15 an examplo to

the rost of the world

(Sorlots Inoludod) that poople can 11vo, surviro, and bato

a highor standard of Ilving in a democracy.

Therefore, the

Soriot Undon triod,

cut the U.S. Government

down at evory opportunity.

Sinco• Prosidont KENNEDY was l00ked

upon by

mary in the. Soviet Union

as a popular personality,

KENNEDY's personal attraction furthor ralsod this fooling

that living in a damocracy had its bonofits,

to an

ovon highor

lovol with tha gonoral population of

the Sovlot Union.

Whon askod 1f it was possiblo that KGB could or would

over sanotion suoh an

answered

operation

(tho assasination) Subject

"yes, at that time (KHRUSHCHSV's) it could havo".

KHRUSHCHEY was considered by Subjoot to. bo an ignorant

Individual who ray tilling to take risks and adventurous under-

takingy.

Subjoct said,

hovover, that this could never occur

under

tho prosant Sotiat loadorship.

Subjact

considered that

tho docision to carry

out such an operation, (the assasination)

could not havo bean mado by the Chairman of

the KGB

since ho

doos not possess such

authority, and,

therefore, could only

baTe

been made by KHRUSHCHEV himsolf.

Subject was asked 1f such an operation might not havo

Involted a tarrific risk which could havo possibly rosulted

in an armos constlot between the two nations, had soviet

involvoment been provon by the Americans.

Subjoct folt that

ovon if thò Amoricans did accuse the Sovlot Government of

complicity in the assasination,

the Soviet Government would

cortainly deny such an American accusation, olaiming that tho

Amoricans were using OSWALD, a crazy

man who had been In the

Sovlet Union,

would say that the accusation was a provocation,

and in all probability would ropudiato such American claims.

To undorline.

bis point, Subjoct montioned that evon

though OSWALD was

In the Sovlot Union, and was suspected

because ho was in Cuba, nothing happened and the Soviet Unton

wasn't accused by the Americans.

---

