# 104-10165-10049

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10165-10049

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

201

file

21 Arguet 1961

MERTORANIDDA PORS A/DER/A

SUBJECT

8 LAds 0081T8 ApeSTa

sobject, uho una forced to flee Caba 10 Apr11 196

fror his eritlelen of Comnist infiltration of the Casts

governes, has basa tollized by the Agansy since tale defes-

FOR As sa enzelarled propazando agent, being pala only

produsad sadlo progress, cutes tOurs of LaCia AbSTICs, end

uritten des books for our cuban operations. On ass at bis

tours ba vas able to speak to tia fresidonos of Hoaduras,

PaResuals, Ecuador, ArguatIos, dad Uruguay, and ues alectod

prasident of tha Congress for Preedos and Denocracy bold

Last JuDa in Moatenidso, Hs 18 IsY the president of the

perzanent group sponsorlag these cengresses (which are franded

by (Do 1gensy) laosa as the "AlleRRA paTS LiNETERd" (1l11asc0

fos LIbaTty), Conco'a leat trip took his to Moaterides for

the RCO3O€ MatIAs, ubera ba beld press conferences, spoke on

and aLaims to bama spetes at sens length Mich D. S. Assasssaras

Do tha 013, Delesseps NorTIsOn and I. Coodata.

Lo la connider DaRDs Aguara do be the most effective

Obes propagandist telle and ating a sigastle eppeal

chronghors LatlA 1035108. Bo bas been varloualy drectlbed as

"so arrangest volce of Cuba" (TIdal Castro), "Cha strongest

Volca of denocracy 1a Cuba" (Perlt28, Suenos AlTer), and the

Mahon comeratos uids the preslegs of Ederd 8. Marron and

cha rattag of Jack Faar" (Tins magazino, (pr1l 1950).

S. Cents Aguaro u11l ba la Hastdayton on 11 Auguse do

report es bis recent trip to Prata dal LaDa and Do diactso ont

futuro plass for his. to has lotlested thas ba vill arcaspe

to son AnDasandos MOrTLIen and MI. Goodala unila la the arses.

ls aldo bas setod if la could spast to a sentes offsetal uta

SEGRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEGRET

•2.

la la a position to explain sher political action polloy bas

beta dacided. los tha Cuben dullas or vita sonsonA visa eas

decues vith bin conta'a sees sor polluleal action la the

Cobes prubles.

TuLs Infoisation on Conto AguerO La forarded foT

your backgroved Infomation in ta event MessIa. MOSTIRON OT

Gandala chock ost subjeer uith the Agenay, In addities, tha

MANDErA HEMLEPIATA DIVIBION LA FIRPITAN LO RITANGO & DARLINg

ult conta aguero 18 such a contest la dastrod by the A/DOP/A.

1S/ Ralord 78. Fiersert

RAPURD W. HERBERT

Acting ChIa.

Haßtera Henderbers DIVlalea

00e A 6420 7, 4. arto 163, (2 0s 61)

Distilbestion:

aria. & 1 - Addrazare

• AC/HAD

.

.

WE/L/PA-Prop/

2 - SH/4/PIONS

SEGRET

I/SR

---

