104-10118-10307) ~ {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
Penge LPO AE ES Srgus seer oose Fore

ey,

1

10/7 7 . : SECRET ‘ : FRPS op pe

CCAD aww C/EUR 1635Z STAFF

ACTIONS C/LA=8 INFO: FILEs VR,» C/EUR@6, OOPD=D, C/0G/0MS,

78 1561389 PAGE 001 IN 1561389
TORs 1416332 NOV 78 [MaDR] 41941

Nee ee ee ee nr ere ters

SEC RET 1416082 NOV 76 STAFF

CITE feaorg] 41941 St
TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO MEXICO CITY. - a yi j
SAEED RYBAT AKULE (kop onan oO /¢

REFS: A, DIRECTOR 323590
B. DIRECTOR 324426

® © © 6 @ 6 #® 8

OD Ow
1, STATION OFFICER SAW {KOAFGHAN/1 QKV1) 14 NOVEMBER

TO ADVISE HIM OF HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
CHCSA) DESIRE INTERVIEW HIM, [KY1 DOES NOT WANT TO TALK TO
HCSA, HE BECAME VISIBLY UPSFT AT PROSPECT. HE ASKED
REPEATEDLY THAT WE PLEASE TRY TO UNDERSTANG KIS POSITION,
HE HAS CORTINUEG TO RECEIVE HARASSING AND SOMETIMES THREATENS
ING TELEPHONE CALLS SINCE LAST SUMMER'S EXPOSURES (LAST CALL
WAS TO WEEKS 460) AND FEARS FOR HIS PERSONAL SAFETY IF THERE
IS MOKE PUBLICITY. HE SAID HE HAD TRIEO TO START A NEW LIFE
IN SPAIN (HE IS NOw A SPANISH CITIZEN = SINCE MARCH 1977),
AND THAT HE CAME CLOSE TO BEING FIRED FROM RIS JOB LAST
SUMMER BECAUSE OF THE EXPOSURES HE FEARS THAT MORE PUBLICITY
COULD NOT BE AVGIDED IF HE WERE TO TALK TO HCSAy AND THAT
THIS COULD RESULT IN HIS LOSING HIS LIVELIHOOD AND FORCING
HIM TO LEAVE SPAIN, wHICH HE DOES NOT WANT TO 00. HE ALSO
cae THAT HE HAS NEVER ADMITTED BEING INVOLVED wITH

14 AND THAT IT IS THE CUBANS’ ORD AGAINST HIS ABOUT
THAT ACTIVITY. HE SAID IF HE WERE TO ACCEPT AN HCSA IKTER=
VIE® HE WOULD IN EFFECT, BE-ACKNOSLEOGING THAT HE DID INDEED
COOPERATE WITH pee ee HE FEARS THIS vOULD HAVE AN
ADVERSE EFFECT ON HIS PRIVATE AND PROFESSIONAL LIFE. HE
OBSERVED THAT HE DGUBTED THERE 1S ANYTHING HE CUULD ADD To
WHAT HCSA MUST ALREADY KNOw, AS HE ASSUMED HCSA “UST HAVE
ACCESS TO ALL THE RECORDS.

o ©® @

: 2

SECRET

¢ @ © @ 6 @

a
=

17702

“RETURN TO CIA
Background U: e Only

Do Not Rep:


——

“@@e eee @ of

SECRET
STAFF
78 1561389 : PAGE 002 IN 1561389
‘ TOR: 1416332 NOV 78 (waned 41941
Sew eRe en ee eee een eee Ree Ee ceases een sees eee ewes w eee sea dceeewenceees

oe
2.{kKy1 1S EQUALLY AS RELUCTANT TO TALK TO HCSA OUTSIDE
THE U.S, AS IN THE U.S, HE OBVIOUSLY FEARS FOR HIS PERSONAL
SECURITY AWD HIS CAREER WITH BERLITZ. HE SAID HE HAD PLANNED
TO VISIT THE U.S, OVER CHRISTMAS TO SEE HIS BROTHER, BUT
THAT HE HAD EVEN DECIDED AGAINST THAT FORK FEAR IT WOULD BE
CONSTRUED AS HIS HAVING SOME OFFICIAL U.S. CONNECTION,

3. FILE: 201-0288248, E2 IMPDET

2/p ‘|
