# 104-10330-10123

## Page 1

1104-10330-10123

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SINATION

RECO

EW

BOARD

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

Tuly 27, 1998

HAND DELIVERED

Mr. J. Barry Harrelson

Chief, JFK Project

Historical Review Program

Office of Information Management

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Re:

Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board's Requests for

Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:

I am writing to update you on the Review Board's understanding of the status of CIA's

responses to our formal and informal requests for additional information and records

that the ARRB Staff has requested pursuant to Section 7()(1)(C)(ii) of the President John

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V

1994) OFK Act).

We appreciate recent CIA efforts to respond to our outstanding requests. As we have

noted in earlier letters, these requests will be incorporated into the Agency's final

compliance declaration. As you know, in requesting these materials, we are not

designating them "assassination records" at this time and we are not requesting that

CIA provide copies to the Review Board. As we have noted, all outstanding ARRB

requests for additional information, both formal and informal, were scheduled to be

completed by April 1, 1998. Although the April 1 deadline has passed, the Review.

Board still intends to complete all necessary work on the outstanding requests as soon

as possible. The Review Board is currently in the process of drafting its final report to

the President and to Congress and it considers the issue of CIA requests for additional

information and records a crucial one. At a meeting with the Review Board staff on

July 16, 1998, the CIA made a commitment to complete all but three of the outstanding

requests, formal and informal, by August 1, 1998. Due to Review Board staff

commitments, we are willing to extend that deadline to no later than Friday August 7,

1998.

BOARD MEMBERs: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: T. Jeremy Gunn • DEPUTY DIRECTOR: Thomas E. Samoluk

---

## Page 2

13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson

July 27, 1998

Page 2

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts involving first, the formal requests

for information and records, and second, the informal requests for information and

records.

Formal Requests

CIA-1 Organizational Material.

The Review Board staff has marked these materials for processing as

assassination records and CIA provided a written response. This request is

complete.

CIA-2 through CIA-5.

These requests are complete.

CIA-6 Cables and Dispätches.

This request is complete.

CIA-7 Histories.

Michelle Combs, of the Review Board staff, is continuing to review the

approximately sixty histories designated for review. The Review Board staff

appreciates the cooperation it has received from HRP in our review of the

histories. CIA should continue to make the remaining histories available in

consultation with the Review Board.

CIA-8 Intelligence Community Staff Records.

DCI/IRU The Review Board first requested information on the Intelligence Community

Staff on March 1, 1996. On October 1, 1996, CIA agreed to report on the status of

this request within two weeks.. While we understand that this request turned out

to be more difficult and complicated than originally envisioned, this request has

been outstanding for more than two years. The Review Board has not yet

received any substantive response. This request must be completed by August 7,

1998.

DET/IRO sendirE

lis

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Grou

неві

J. Barry Harrelson

July 27, 1998

Page 3

CIA-Ontelligence Community Publications on Cuba or USSR (November 20-30, 1963).

Michelle Combs is reviewing these materials to identify those which will become

assassination records. This request is otherwise complete.

Ch 10 Thenging sure finger, - complete -dessfied

esperso

CIA has submitted a classified description of the ISR as a formal response to th

Review Board's request. As a follow up, Review Board has requested that CIA

check a provided list of names against the Interagency Source Register. The

Review Board staff requested several files of individuals from this search.

Additional biographical material to narrow the search on several names will be

provided by the ARRB staff.

CIA-11 Sylvia Duran Materials.

This request is complete.

CIA-12 JMWAVE and David Sanchez Morales.

On May 22, 1996, the Review Board requested access to "all 201 files, personnel

files, Office of Security files, P-files, or any other files" relating to five persons

allegedly connected to JMWAVE. In response to this request, CIA has provided

numerous records which were located in the Sequestered Collection. Since that

time CiA has provided the requested files on three of the five individuals: Davic

Morales, Theodore Shackley, and Doug Gupton (P). We are still awaiting the

files on Ron Cross (P) and Bart Henry. CIA should document its search process

I ina written response for the record.

CIA-13 Mexico City Backchannel Communications.

This request is complete.

CIA-14 Mexico City Station Annual Reports.

CIA provided its written response. This request is now complete.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson

July 27, 1998

Page 4

CIA -15 Win Scott Files Identified in Russ Holmes Files.

This request is complete.

CIA-16 Oswald Pre-Assassination Files. - Michelle

palef fuel

The Oswald Security File was released to the JFk Collection at the National

Archives. The Review Board awaits a formal, full, and complete response to this ,

request. —

Informal Requests

Each of the following informal requests was previously made to CIA. For reference,

they will be referred to by the "Informal Request" (IR) number provided below.

CIA-IR-01 Personnel Assigned to Post from 1959-64 (see RIF 104-10065-10199).

This request is complete.

CIA-IR-02 Location of Cable Identified in JFK 1993.07.20.10.18:29:650630.

This request is complete.

CIA-IR-03 Full Computer Search for List of Documents in HTLINGUAL File.

CIA agreed to undertake a computer run for all HTLINGÜAL documents in

April 1997. The Review Board understands that HIRP received an initial

response. CIA should document all computer searches for these documents and

provide the written response to the Review Board. This request must be

completed by August 7, 1998.

CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton's Files.

The Review Board seeks to ensure that it has taken all reasonable steps to

account for any files that James Jesus Angleton possessed or controlled that

related to the assassination and to Lèe Harvey Oswald. Because of the

controversy surrounding the disposition of Angleton's files, the Review Board

believes it prudent to obtain from CIA a clear understanding of the types of files

that he maintained and their ultimate disposition. (The Review Board does not

---

## Page 5

13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson

July 27, 1998

Page 5

seek to explore any subjects in Angleton's files beyond those that may have

pertained to the assassination.) To date, CIA has made available certain

documents provided by the CIC and the case files for Mangold v. CIA. The

Review Board requests any additional information in the possession of CIA that

would explain the disposition of Angleton's files. This request must be

completed by August 7, 1998:

CIA-IR-05 Possible Foreign Source for Records on Oswald.

understands that the CIA has taken steps to pursue these records: CIA provided

an update on this request in June 1998.

CIA-IR-06 QKENCHANT.

The Review Board seeks information regarding the purpose of QKENCHANT

and its connection with Clay Shaw, Howard Hunt, and Monroe Sullivan.

The Review Board was provided some information informally by CIA with

regard to this request that we now believe to be incorrect. CIA is now seeking

additional information to correct or to clarify its previous answers. The Review

Board seeks an immediate, full, and accurate response to this request. Once CIA

provides its written response, this request will be complete.

CIA-IR-07 Claude Barnes Capehart.

This request is complete.

CIA-IR-08 Unredacted Copy of the "Family Jewels" Memoranda.

Michelle Combs of the Review Board staff has identified pages from the "Family

Jewels" memoranda for inclusion in the JFK Collection. Review Board has

received confirmation from CIA that these pages will be processed as

assassination records. This request is complete.

CIA-IR-09 George Bush Computer Search.

This request is complete.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson

July 27, 1998

Page 6

CA-IR-10 IG Reports respace, d

DESTRUCT will dee whether te to e maintain an indoor ear tae

reports and determine whether the IG's office prepared a report on the handling

of Oswald. Since April 1997, CIA has had no response and no time frame for a

response. This request must be completed by August 7, 1998.

CIA-IR-11/ Warren Commission Critics.

We are asking that CIA determine whether it possesses any files of records on

Warren Commission critics Edward J. Epstein, Josiah Thompson, Mark Lane,

Harold Weisberg, or Sylvia Meagher. The Review Board is not requesting

information per se regarding any FOLA requests by these individuals or any

Public Affairs news clippings.' Since April 1997, CIA has had no response and

no time frame for a response. This request must be completed by August 7, 1998.

CLA-IR-12

Contacts with Journalists or Publishing Houses.

The Review Board seeks to determine to what extent, if any, CIA might have

attempted to influence any journalists or publishers regarding public discussion

of the assassination. This request, originally discussed in March 1997, was raised

by the Review Board staff at the DO follow-up briefing on April 1, 1997. CIA has

not responded has not provided a time frame for a response. This request must

be completed by August 7, 1998.

CIA-IR-13 Office or Person Dealing with Organized Crime and Cuba.

The Review Board requested that CIA make a particular personnel file available.

The file was made available by CIA for review by the Review Board staff. The

Review Board staff has marked documents in this file for processing as

assassination records. The Review Board has received confirmation that CIA has

placed these documents in the review process. The Review Board also seeks a

full and accurate written response to this request detailing any and all searches

michelle

'To the extent that CIA possesses FOIA files or records on any of these

individuals, and to the extent that those records contain information that is not publicly

available in court records, such records are being requested for review by the Review

Board.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson

July 27, 1998

Page 7

made and the results of those searches. Once we receive this written response,

this request will be complete:

CIA-IR-14 Breckinridge Files

NOT IRO

CIA (OGC) will determine the disposition of the files of Scott D. Breckinridge.

CIA has not responded and has not provided a time frame for a response. This

request must be completed by August 7, 1998.

CIA-IR-15. Electronic "take" from Mexico City Station.

The Review Board has for some time been attempting to determine whether CIA

has provided access to all of CIA's surveillance "take" from the Cuban and

Soviet facilities in Mexico City at the time of the Oswald visit and in the

immediate wake of the assassination. Audio surveillance tapes from the period

after the assassination have been identified by CIA and the Review Board staff.

On numerous occasions, the Review Board has asked CIA whether there was any

surveillance take in addition to what is currently in the collection.

On March 18, 1997, the Review Board provided additional leads to CIA to assist

it in answering these questions. The DO has agreed to check Headquarters

records for the file referenced in HMMW 12454, to search for the crypts cited in

this document, and to search for HMMA 20307 and other cables or dispatches

cited in this document.

CIA has provided a partial response to this request and additional specific

questions have been conveyed to HRP by the Review Board.

In at reo the Boga dilet a bug me one on the present location to f

Review Board continues to seek a full accounting for all surveillance conducted

during the relevant time periods.

CIA-IR-16 U-2 Files.

Gar

DS&T has provided a folder title printout of U-2 materials for Review Board

examination and has checked for records filed under Richard Bissell's name.

Michelle Combs, of the Review Board staff, continues to review these indexes.

The DS&T should continue to search for OSP files.

-

---

## Page 8

13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson

July 27, 1998

Page 8

CLA-IR-17 DS&T Records on Castro Assassination Plots.

This request is complete.

CIA-IR-18 DO Office.

The Review Board has made oral requests from CIA for information about a

particular DO office. Since January 1997, CIA has not responded and has not

provided a time frame for a response. This request must be completed by

August 7, 1998.

CIA-IR-19 Computer Searches.

The Review Board has requested that full computer searches be conducted on all

of the following people and organizations. CIA should document the results of

its searches. Once CIA formally documents its completed searches, the request

will be complete. This request must be completed by August 7, 1998.

varner

1. Spas Raikin

2. Leo Cherne

3. Hunter Leake

y 4. Marilyn Dutz Murret

5. John McVickar

6. Andy Anderson

7. Byron B. Morton, Jr.

8. Marie Cheatham

9. Paul Garbler

10. Verna Deane Brown

11. George Stanley Brown

12. Howard Guebler

Resuts/ Comment.

This request is complete.

Review Board awaits documentation.

Review Board awaits documentation. HRP is checking for

a DCD file.

This request is complete.

Review Board awaits documentation.

Review Board awaits documentation.

Pirat

Review Board awaits documentation.

Review Board awaits documentation.

Review Board awaits documentation.

Review Board awaits documentation.

Review Board awaits documentation.

Review Board awaits documentation. HRP will check for

files.

---

## Page 9

13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson

July 27, 1998

Page 9

13. Gordon Duane Novel

14. Ed Butler

15. INCA (information

Council of the Americas)

16. Permindex

Review Board awaits documentation. HRP will check for

files.

Review Board awaits documentation. HRP will check for

files.

Review Board awaits documentation, HIRP will check for

files.

Review Board awaits documentation, HIRP will check for

files.

CLA-IR-20 Monster Plot.

This request is complete.

CIA-IR-21 Monthly Operational Reports for DRE

In March 1997, the Review Board requested that the CIA search for monthly

operational reports for the Cuban exile group Directorio Revolucionario

Estudiantil (DRE) records for the period 1960-1964 with particular emphasis on

the reports for August and November 1963. The CIA has provided a response to

this request on the issue of the DRE reports for December 1962-1964 and the

identity of the "Howard" mentioned in the DRE records.

CLA also provided the Office of Personnel file of Mr. George E. Joannides, the

case officer responsible for the DRE during the December 1962 to April 1964 time

period. The documents for the relevant time period have been reviewed by the

Review Board staff and we have marked them for processing as assassination

records. This request is complete.

CIA-IR-22 "A" File on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

This request is complete.

CIA-IR-23. Watch Committee Files.

This response is complete.

---

## Page 10

13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson

July 27, 1998

Page 10

CIA IR 24 Defector File.

This request is complete.:

CIA-IR-25 Zapruder Film

CIA has provided a partial oral response to this request. There is no record of a

"William Green" at NPIC in November 1963 and CIA has been unable to locate

any log books or indexes from the period still in existence. It is the Board's

understanding that CIA is still completing its search of NPIC records. When

complete, CIA should document its searches in a final response. This request

must be completed by August 7, 1998.

CIA-IR-26 Jordan James Pfuntner.

This request is complete.

CIA-IR-27 Security Files for Five Individuals.

The entire Office of Security files for Gordon Novel, Jack Ruby, and Richard

Case Nagel and portions of the Office of Security files for Harold Weisberg and

Walter Sheridan have been designated assassination records. ARRB has now

received confirmation that these records have been put into the review process as

assassination records. This request is complete.

CIA-IR-28 McCone Files.

( Michelle Combs, of the ARB staff, has examined the requested files and

neil el designated certain records as assassination records. CIA provided confirmation.

that these records have been put into processing. This request is complete.

CIA-IR-29 Oswald Le Winter.

This request is complete.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson

July 27, 1998

Page 11

CIA IR 30 Cherepanov Papers:

On April 2, 1998, Michelle Combs examined the English translation of the

Cherepanov Papers. She did not designate any pages as assassination records.

This request is complete.

CIA-IR-31 Dulles Calendar

Michelle Combs has examined the Dulles calendars for January 1959 through

November 29, 1961. She designated some pages as assassination records and

marked those pages for processing. This request is otherwise complete.

CIA-IR-32 AMWORLD.

The Review Board seeks information regarding the purpose of AMWORLD and

its connection with the Cuban exile groups.

The CIA has provided the Review Board with some information in response to

this request that appears to be incomplete. The CIA is now seeking additional

information to correct or to clarify its previous answers. The Review Board seeks

an immediate, full, and accurate response to this request. Once CIA provides a

written statement, this request will be complete. This request must be completed

by August 7, 1998.

CIA-IR-33 FBIS USR-92-112.

The CIA has provided to the Review Board its written response to this request.

This request is complete.

CIA-IR-34 Files of CIA Officials and/or Offices.

The Review Board requests the office files of the individuals occupying the

following positions during the period 1959-1964:

files of the Office of the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, 1959-1964.

General Charles Cabell 1953-1962

/ General Marshall Carter 1962-1965

---

## Page 12

13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson

July 27, 1998

Page 12

files of the Office of the Deputy Director for Plans (DDP), 1959-1964.

Richard Bissell 1958-1962 *

Richard Helms 1962-1965

the Chronological files of C. Tracy Barnes 1959-1964. *

Office of the General Counsel, Lawrence Houston 1959-1964, - working files (signers)

Operational Diaries of William Harvey 1962-1963.

The Directorate of Operations has provided indexes to the records of the DDP

and specifically to the records of Richard Bissell, Richard Helms, and C. Tracy

Barnes. Michelle Combs has marked specific files for review and has designated

documents as assassination records. The review of the DDO records is expected

to be completed shortly. The CIA should make available the additional files on

or before August 7, 1998.

CIA-IR-35 Source identified in RIF number 104-10151-10206

DeCANTEP

spack.

On April 2, 1998, Michelle Combs of the ARRB staff reviewed the 201 on this

source. She did not designate any assassination records from the reviewed

material. As a follow-up, the Review Board has requested access to the 201 of

Boris Vladimirovich Zhuravlev, who is also named in the document. The

• Review Board requests that the records on the possible information on Lee

Haryey Oswald mentioned in RIF 104-10151-10206 be located on or before

August 7, 1998.

CIA-IR-36 Handling of cables in 1963.

This response is complete.

CIA-IR-37 William Pawley.

The Review Board requests access to review all files on William Pawley and any

files on his possible connection with Cuban exile groups in the 1962-1963 time

frame. The CIA should document its search process. This request must be

completed by August 7, 1998.

---

## Page 13

13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson

July 27, 1998

Page 13

Conclusion

Please let me know if you have any supplements of corrections to the lists above. We

are interested in a prompt resolution to each of the requests. As always, we appreciate

your cooperation and assistance.

Sincerely,

Laura duk

Laura Denk

Executive Director

CC:

Assassination Records Review Board

Mr. James Oliver

Linda Cipriani, Esq.

---

