THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

“"to4-10286-10297, [2022 RELEASE UNDER
~~ et :

_._.TOUR_OF DUTY REPORT

4 °May -73,°2210-hours

TOD Entry #30

Bill Blair, Night Editor N. Y. Times, Telephone
293-3100, called to inquire .if a camera and
~-. disguises were provided by CIA to those who
- broke into Ellsberg's. office (sic).



a)

(

p

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, Building Security Branch

4 May 1973

93

03 oF
FROM : Gerry F. Booth )(Prederick G. stzonil, (tian E. Craig) and
foseph K. Moore
SUBJECT : Tour of duty report 1700-0100 hrs.”
1. 1700 - Entered on duty. Reviewed current OSDO instructions and

previous tour of duty reports.

2. 1705 - Issued Pageboy #142 to Steve Kuhn, Senior 0S/DO.
JFB : :
3. 1710 - Received a wrong number call on backstop line 356-8104.
Call logged.
JFB , :
° !
k, 1730 - csfpod line the OSDO that he can be
contacted at his home on 370-4066. The phones were also
switched to the OSDO at this time.
FGS WEC ay
5. 1740 - Mr. Smith, Bur adrisea the OSDO that he is expecting a call
SDO NOTE from on backstop line 356-5996, sometime Sunday
evening. If alls earlier advise him that Andrews is
not available- * junday evening.
WEC f 3
sseeeiiceetases ; ‘ mae : .
6. 1745 - Received a“collect call from listed nuisance R. Franklin, ‘Oakland: ~~
Cal: .SD0,refused the charges and the call was terminated. :
FGS f
03
7. 1800 ‘{Eleny‘Nastaon) FI, returned the 7B corridor key to the OSDO.
Vs
8. 1815 - Received a call from Marien Alsup, Secret Service, requesting
2 name check. Ms. Alsup was advised that the records area
(/¥8 closed but that the SDO would respond and provide the -
information. Ms. Alsup thanked the SDO and said she would
7 try and alternate number.
FGS
9. hos ~- Received a call through the Agency Operator from one Manson

R. Pack. Subject rambled incoherently and the reason for the call
could not be determined.
FGS .



Gow vias

Page four °F 03.
Moore, Gos, Gerdn).
TOD 1700-0900 firs."

9

i 27. 2110 -» Burgener| osp/D0, advised that he can be reached at his

sidence witil further notice.
JKM

28. 2155 - FPO Burbage, Console Operator, reported receiving an alarm
from room 7E-47. FPO and SDO responed and found area secure.
Officer Burbage advised that the alarm will not reset.
Appropriate reports will be filed.
JKM

REF ITEM ON SDO WEEKENDER (Steam shutdown) SDO contacted and
briefed (John McGinn} Safety/DO, and all 2 hour offices.
FGS JKM 8

Agency Operator transferred a call from Bill Blair, Night
Editor for The New York Times, Washington Bureau. SDO
contacted Angus Thuermer, DCI Special Assistant, who requested
that the SDO give Mr. Blair his home phone number and request
that he call him there.

JFB

31, 2238 ~ Operations center advised that the U.S. Consul General in
Guadalajara, Nexico, Terrance G. Leonhardy, has been kidnapped
and they requested an SR&CD name check. The indicies of SR&CD
revealed file # 0S 76-267 in the Subject's name has been
__retired to the Records Center and SDO so advised the Operations
Center. SDO ). briefed(Herm Finger) “PSD/DO; on same.

OKM 03

32. 2325 - Conducted a mobile inspection of the Headquarters Compound and
area access roads. Also conducted a mobile inspection of the
Rosslyn area and investigated previously reported security
violation at the Key Building. See attached violation report
for details.
J¥FB 3

33. ooho - (Du Wayne L. Wirta,) TSD EOD, advised the OSDO that some supicious
‘rsons were on his balcony. Due to the fact that the Subject is
under cover SDO requested he contact the police. See incident report
for details.
FGS

34. 0100 - Ended tour of dut:

(ft eh HUE Al
ederick G. | Jerry F. Boot. Joseph K. Moore

pee ee gee

er Baie

ad

L_—

