# 104-10074-10338

## Page 1

1104-10074-10338

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCIASSIFIED

ERNAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND

RECORD SHEET

CONTADENTIAL

SECRET

SLaJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

C/CI/SO Richard Ober

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

EXTENSION

5847

OFFICER'S

• INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

NO.

B- 2529

DATE

0 8 APR 1971

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

CI/SO Internal Use Only

THIS

MEMO IS NOT TO BE

DISSEMINATED OUTSIDE CI/SO

WITHOUT PRIOR PERMISSION FROM

C/CI/SO.

Originated by:FRafalko:CI/SO

Based on 354 March 19295

Source: 02(TDRISK/1

Dissem to FBI (Mr. Wannall)

via CI/SO

courier onj 8 APR 1971

ACTION:

6.

7.

8.

41p)

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FILE:

FORM

A1A USE PREVIOUS MT craney

17.00118

M INTERNAL

5th of March or

Committee

PRODUCTION Stockholm

PRODUCTION (TDRISK/1

10627

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SUBJECT:

B- 2529

08 APR 1971

Request by Provisional Government of South

Vietnam Representative for Tape of March

5th Black Panther Party Solidarity Committee

Meeting in Uppsala, Sweden:

2972. FOVE

indolar 1a

1920

eLla A sensitive source has reported that a

representative of the provisional

Government of South"

Vietnam stationed in Stockholm, Sweden requested that

the March 5th Black Panther Party Solidarity Committee

meeting held in Uppsala, Sweden be taped and sent to

him.: The

unidentified

representative stated that he

wanted to

use the tape for radio replay to American

soldiers based in South Vietnam.

2.

The above is being provided in response to

your request transmitted in your memorandum dated 29

March 1971, Subject:

WPAX, Incorporated Sedition (IS)

For additional information on the March 5th meeting,

varil feerred to our merorandum B-2528 dated:

"i Subject:: Swedish Fifth of March. Committee

For the Liberation of Black Panther Prisoners (RM) :

7

Please transmit reply via CACTUS channel

Originated by.l

-3

FRafalko:CI/SO:cf

Based on:Stockholm 1295, 24 March 1971 filed

5th of March Committee sesn-

Source: WIRISK/1, (unilateral)

-Distribution:-

Original & 1 - FBI (Mr. Wannal]) via CI/SO courier

] ≤ B memo chrono

1- extra

copy filec

5th of March Committee sens

FRODUCTION (StockhoImX9-3

PRODUCTION (TDRISK/1

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

SECRET

ERCUP 1

Excluded fi0a austrate

downgredied and

declassitication

---

