# 104-10009-10026

## Page 1

1104-10009-10026

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED ..

ITERMAL

L JSE ONLY

C. DENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM.

RedlAN

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

" Red /Mis

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION NO.

DATE

EX- 786

5 DE. 66

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

OFFICER'S

INTALS

ASU

3.

3. Rid FIP

GE-

66

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

Document Number

1031-405

for FOlA Review on SEP 1976

610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

7 CONFIDENTIAL

-RId/FIp

COITPAST TIME

201-289248

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

.....

Mantis

NAR 5 lU 18 AN '6Ừ

i.i.

.;..

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

EX - 786

5 December 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECTO "American Defectors to the USSR"

:

1. The attached material was part of a soft file entitled

"American Defectors to the USSR", which was set up by SR/6

(Support) around 1960 and maintained by various SR components

until ca. 1963. The compilations were derived from a variety

of sources, and contain both classified and overt data.

2. In the fall of 1966, the files were turned over to CI

Staff.

In most instances, basic information was then abstracted

for the US Defector Machine Program. In all instances in which

the material was unique, or represented a valuable collation effort,

it has been

incorporated into the appropriate 201 file, along with

a copy of this memorandum.

3. It is suggested that any dissemination of this data should

be coordinated with SB Division and with CI Staff (CI/MRO), in

view of the frequently inadequate sourcing and of the fact that

disseminations have already been made through the US Defector

Machine Program.

InSender

JLBender

Document Number 1031-405

SEP 1976

for FOlA Review on

Orig - CI/MRO

1 - RID/FI

1 - SB/RMO

1 - CI/R&A/JLBender

1 - GI/R&A/chrono

Input to US Dotenter

Liüchine 2:

....a

17/I/6) 050

ES COPK

SECRET

201-289246

201-289248

---

## Page 4

13-00000

See Sanitized File

Number

399

For sterile copy of this documeni.

sident come die doi

...

---

## Page 5

13-00000

AFt

23

27550

OSMAID, toe HarVey (201-289248

Dato of Birthe 18 Dotober 193%.

Now Orleans, Lorilalans

Date of Defeations Ostober 1959

Iducations High sohool. Alvare a studlous type, read books that were

considered "deep".

MilItary SarT100s

Jolnod the Marines at 17, seya ho did tble becauso Do didn't

vant to be a burdon on bla mother.

Became a PFO, radar operatory

14, months serylos Japan and the philipplnes, Honorable discharge

on 3 Septanber 1959 (dependenay dischargo).

Baakgrounds

¡ather, an InBurancs abLesIan, died defore Lae vas bord. iRe

& brother who La & eblesman at done brick vompany, dori hordh, texas,

and a halI brother donn satary pro ago lo, a li lur lorde stair sargeant

stationed In JapaR. MoLDer La AIrTantLy empLOyed as a supply unther at

(DBP 49478, 25 May 1960)

According to neuspaper artiale, reasons for his defeation vero a combi

nation of family poverty, what he cunsiders the plight of US negroes, and

the US Marinos or Amarioan Imporiallan abroad. At 15 or so ha read

"Das Sapital" and agroed with 1ts theorlos. A your before hla discharge,

he began to preparo for lIfo in the sovlet Undon by using a Borllts

granner to teach hinsel! hou to read and wilto fussian. Never, bovever,

did he consider deserting the Marine Corps.

After discharge fron the Marines, las vialted his nother in Fort Horth

for about 3 days, then laft for Now Orleans uhere la planned to resume

employment with an export mpart company sar whian he bad workes priat

to entating In the Marines.

shortly after he arrived in Now Orloans,

he sent hle nother a note saying that he had booled passage to Europo,

that ho was doing something ho felt he mist do. H1s arrival in Moscow

came as a shock to the fam ly, Travel money probably sama from that

saved while in the larines. He had never expressed any sympathy for

the soviet Undon or Communfew. He had been interested in Orbe and South

Amarlos and hla tanly vould have exported him to go there, 1f anyubero.

Ma1l sont to him sinos bis defection has been addreased to the Hotel

Metropole, Masoon.

in aeroniece receip of to tell do no men

Lattara sent la 1900 have been returned to the senders. (DBF 49478)

In November 1959 the Soviets were Investigating the possibility of

sanding Loe to a soviet higher teohnical lastitute.

(wash.Bvendng Star)

My 1960 Mra. Oswald received & letter from the albart schwaltzer college

CONRIDENZINL

201-289248

---

## Page 6

13-00000

: CONFIDONTIAL

• 2 00

Loara 11 har son vas 11 aotuAl attanianos taro.

(DBF 49478)

The sovioto nolther encouraged nor diacoureged Onald's destro to booomo

The Amerioan Inbassy wanted hin to think it over

before hearing his cath ranounoing anerloan allsarahip. as a result,

aguald la bitter tovarda the conoal tharo, lo san statod thai ragaralass

of apy material abortooninga ho seos vallo la the USSR, he vili sever go

Residing Minsk. Desires return USA under centorn condiduns (drap legal proserdigs apant)

Connat loare Muist alo peroission.

with D'swald.

Unless so notod, Info 10 fran the Hashington Svening Star, 26 Nov. 1959.

of Breadent John 7, Xersely. 22 november

Shot + Keled by Jacke Puby on 25 november 1963 while

being mored from

Dallas fal

CONFIDE

201-284248

---

