(104-10210-10000

“fenemispeateinmegnce Fae

fiticie .
YERGADUN POR: | Catet, W8/2 :
ATTEVTION - Ure) .
gusgscet: ©“ Gechateol /nelyeis of Lettar and Eavelope +
ba CASS 435) :
RiFERGHCEt - Ws/2 Kano dated 13 Docexter 1953 i

In response to rover:neud request, on oricionl tyjcuritton

net end envelere Set vo the frericea Sotassy, Sexchois, -

were ceeMined in order to Gcternine tue origin of the leticr and the’
stiniality of the writer. .

2. Tho following conclusions wre arava concerning the letter
aud Grvelozas

a. “The typewriter in questios 13 equipped with en cbcolete
style of Gerssa-ncde tyre Widen, esconding to our references, vas
fitted on a roster of typswriters o2de in Gersony curing tue 190s
ond corly 19323. The possible rakes would be €:
Nercoges, Rheiszetall, Urania, Crea, Fortuna, Costinertel, Keppel,
Groza, Triusph, Norz asd yorsibly sce others. Cf there mkas, ~
she Torpedo, Kercodes, Raoissrtald and Trtunh were protably the-
nost. widely distributicd.

°

quipped Uith a black ad red’:
Byedicn, as chon ty two

be Tae octine in quantion is
vittoa. he keytcani ig very probe
atrike-overs: unleut-u fer typhoa and "2" for “a".
charcetera aro adjacent cn tie uuerlard Sucdish xeybocrd, but not
a the Gormen. he umlautes ms so: used in the ctreet cidress,
“Strendvagen” (where the dot: encubl have teen placed over the
necond “a”). This right te either a simple oversight or on cttempt
# to conceal the writer's fentlicrity vita the ccrrect oiclitec.

en
Ae “me paper of the letter is of the intcrosticnil standard
om" Gize "AS" vhieh fo clevat unfversally use? in Sv
linen-textured stationery sons to be rather ecosca in
Yao two suoller pleces of tlonk papor natch the letter ps:
respect to width, thickness, color, textura end lociet rah, ond
vere probably cut from crother sheet of the cazs type. ‘ho enveloze
ratehes syecinens of fvedisa onvele;es taken frou b2/5-Postal.
Tatelligence files.

Petes

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 S*™hrsest
a A ANTI IONE



i
i

DB Meme GE5E5 © Fogo 2

@. The letter wen.pocted fren tis. ftosholm fan yostofiiea,
Wiieh is located in thy contrel ratiuy terminal in Stccchoin.
AQ) call Cepocited in stroct 241 uors:s in tiie areca, ca fa tic pot
ie oe vould bo procesied “nrdigs us eee

@. Tha cancollatica
2. respects (forzst, 165"
bars) to exeaplere voila:

0 exveloye 13 identical in
etyla ond length of xNer
i cus o.2ice. _

f. The postara le curvect for Gxdich internal moll cud the
yottage Stamp ic c* current isoas.

g- A yosaitle irregularity 4s tus tine leg betyecn the intors:
dete of the letter, the ante of the yostaurs on’ tho dite of receipt
4m the fzoriean Extoasy. ‘cee votal tize froa the dnterail date of
the letcer to tho tine of reccipt in eight days, tha tie? betwen
the dats of posting and the dete of receizt is rore thea tirce dsys.
This trcusit tine of mora casa three days for dotra-city rat] epyecrs
irregilcr Vhen conyared vith the ever;ce transit tine of cxly twos
three days for orrival buiveos Stovizkiln cod the United ovate.

3. Tho text of the lotter varrents ecce cocments becouse: a micter
of. poculiarities were noted - crite fron pre epelling or tying errors =
Vateli eeca to indicate @ Svoltch writer. ue folloving words rey
eltier Ceedish. spelling or-medistrotion:-“sccerv’, "etablic
“Kruatjav"s Other examples of Cexdtca inmar and syatax

a Spat” {es post tente), “in Soviet” (Svdirh forms but not ezellinc),

“ho wae oy” (without intefinite a tele), | “EDL, USA" (withous
article), “shosld’ (rather town “scrla"}, ‘cutmmgrlea”(Svedioay
porlicizle fora), or@ “waole ts world” (ase Swedish foru).

4, Another sicaificant detail to the nexo given, “Ryo Le
"43 not a ctandant syellizg in aay imcva Reconization g.
Chitece. "R" 4s econ in we sev Catneta Communist nationul oystea,
Wut vever in combinstion vita “yo! “Ryo” 4s « Jazaneco spoellirg. ia
the nom: given it 1s not knowa Victier the Chinese or vestara
tetion ic used, in other vonis, wacther “Ryo” or "Yuan" is x2:
the cursane. Among Chiness oylissles waich coulda be rerress: 3
Sayenscr "Ryo" ore Liao, Ltan; ezi Lung. (2 thece Lung (3027193) end
Long (2232733) ere used a3 curio. in eitzer case, “hyo* is sanil
& acca dy vaica @ real Cainess wrilé identify hinself.

g Vion".

5+ In summery, cod based o1 tw alove information, it 1:
that the letter vas tranmitted vin uormal Swodish poste) ef:
lettor 13 probably a “crank letter", most lizsly writtea by a 51
wsing a Svedish-keyboard typewriter ani Swedish stationery.



n
‘

DB tens $6505 = Page 3

6. For further inforesticn concovning the. tygevriter end pazer
aerlysca, ed the Dvedica ctyle of tenmuap contact itr. Jon
Beck 02 x2009. For further intersition on the spelling of the

stonsible writer's miss, you nay tre Gerald Worth oa 12008.
For further information rezaret sal aspects of this cree,
Please contact Hre Robart d. Beacs on xkH3e

J. Tho original letter and euvolope ore being returned herewith.

AIDIN Re TRZCIGUS
Graef, T2D/D3

Attachient: (1)
As stated

Distritution:
Orig & 1 + Addressee
2 = TSD/CARB/ABR
= Tsp/DB/3
1- DB files
1- PI cnpone -
1 ~ Case 4363
1190/00 5Pr banks /<2303/ery



poe tacit seis eth es eet EO SEED

a

,

15 dee 1253

ORANDUM FOR: TSD/D3/5
ACCSETION: Mr. Tom Cenpbell

SUBJECT; Technical Analysi> of Le

and Envelope

1. Attac!
s Stockhola

eG is a letter mailed to the Acer:
pabehintand fron ta

is the envelope
ly was used to 2:

bide in Stoc% holm, ¥ we w maa is your opinica on
not the stationery, typevrter, and envelope are of the type
normally used by that Svoassy.

2, Because of the sensational nature of the contents of
the letter and the necessity for our checiing out suen ellega-
tions as quickly end thorowshly as possible, it is requested
that this technical enalysis be undervalien on @ priority tasis
and that the undersigned vy novifiea ty phone as soon as eny
conclusions are reached.

3. Please ackmowledne vie receipt of the attached letter
ensure that its whereatous, when in your custedy,

ster of record. We prefer that the letter and envelo
kept.as intact.as-yossibdle. «nile undergoing technical anulysis.

an

2

i


"Oswald" Letter to US Embassy, Stockholm.

Fgarding the language in the Subject letter, which isn't standard English, it

is difficult to say that 4t reflects any particular foreign (non-English) background.
"Qutsmzzled"-{s-Cermanic;. and "Sowiet® may be Germanic.or Slavic, and both my

tend to be suggestive. However, a Chinese who has studies several European”
languages may easily mix the idioms or spellings of any of them in an effort

at English composition.

A nore significant detail is the nae given, Ryo Liang Yan, "Ryo" is not a
svandard spelling in any known romanization system used for Chinese, ®2" is seen
in the now Chinese Coxuinist national system, but never in combination with

yo". "Ryo" is a Japanese spelling.

In the nane given it is not lmown whether the Chinese or western presentation
is used, or, in other words, whether "Ryo" dr "Yan" is meant to be the surnaue,
Anong Chinese syllables which could be reprosented by the Japanese "Ryo" are
Liao, Liang and Lung. Of these Lung (TC: 7893) and Liang (TC: 2733) are used
as surnanes. In either case, "Ryo" is hardly a name by which a real Gninese
would identify hinself, b

‘The unit which keeps record of Chinese Cormmnist diplomatic and official
personnel abroad will very probaly oe able to determine whether there 1s
an actual person in the Chinese Corunist Embassy in Stockhola with whon the
nane given in the letter can be connected, The.US Exbassy. vill have reans
of learning whether that person was in Stockholm at the tine of the letter
writing, and whethar he has subsequently been renoved.



Aeon Sa EE
ramen care NTC MINAS ELE RE _

pavers be tO8N ate NEMO ne ‘ :
etn Fate nce sch tg AE I ~ :

The Fresident of the United Stutes of Anerica, John ? Neanedy was
assassinated by Lee H Oswald oy direct order of the government of ‘
the Peoples Republic of China. Lee H Oswald executed the act alone
but there was helpers and reserv. “Sow ull is over" was password
to his customers. Oswald was a fully convinced Communist tut he

must assassinate Kennedy. We etablised contact with Oswald already

when he was in Sowiet but then to try to get him as a spy for China.
Later he was spy for us. When Lee E Osvald had returzed fo USA we
cContscteu niu auew sou icesueucd up ais mind “you have been @ spy

for us" and told hia what could happen to him if FBI got inforsed.

Now we had him. He got his last inZormzetion in kexico. /It was cot

gocd to assassinate Zennedy in sexico/ "Fair Play for cuba" was .
staried only to confuse and throw the blame on Castro vor the as-
ssassinetei. Our government thought that USA should attack Cuba .

when Kennedy was murded as the orginaztion wus behind the assassin-

” ation. When Cuba was attaczed by USA Sowiet must help Castro defead
himself. I: that was so it would burden Sowiet that Oswald had visi-
ted. We should be allieted with Sowiet then we would asx them for A=
bombs and they should not be able to refuse us. Ye and Sowiet should

win. this.wex end whole the worli should be Communistic. Then we should

w

assassinate Zrustjev and other

of the NEV 25). When this letzer will reach you they have naked

ret leaders end we would be leader

away with ce and all that knowed the plenes. This letter is outsmuggled
from our Embassy in Stockholm where the Embassy is arghinese spy-shcol, °

ky name is Ryo Liang Yuan, Officer in the departcent, for State-secret. .
—_——_- soe

cial aes seoal ae
If you do not belive this letter explain our hate to Ui



1400000

aren oop aia tae eden tr ke an

sceanetiatingrgemeegrtin th oniieememneiemaigncstly station. hare sitar aa

. a — - mien go ,

American Embassy
o Strandvagea 101

STOCKHOLE No |

“ENSASSY OF THE
BWITED States Us AMERICA
Tos tid £1953

MAIL’ ROOM.
STOCKHOLM

