# 104-10186-10070

## Page 1

104-10186-10070

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATIONEREPORT INFORMATIONPREPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DIBSEN

COUNTRy Cuba

SUBJECT "Pelencho". (an allas)

REPORT NO. CS C1-316/00629-65

DATE DASTR

10 February 1965

1

NO PAGES

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington,

RED REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATIOM SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DETINTT.VL APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer Who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1961.

Readquarters Comments

he following report is one of a series containing personalit

nformation provided by the source and includes supplementa

information from the records of this Agency..

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any o

he individuals mentioned in the personality reports withou

first checking with this Agency.

to recite me of to pare trato deo herd able

Istado (Department of State Security - DSE). He was a gooc

irlend of Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo (see CSCI-316/01239-64,

12 October 1964)•

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no information on "pelencho."

5

SECRET

YO FOREIGN DISSEH

3

2

1

STATE

1 DIA

ARMY

I NANY

INSA

TEXX

IFBI 2

REP

CINCLANT

CINCSO T

I&YS

"Note: field dintribation indicored by "#".)

EINFORMATION REPORT INFORMATIONAREPORT.

HISA EOSAL

_NE/5/R

1 CL/LA

JUFGA 19020(9D=64) -

HE (MADR)

2-CU/REA

YO PROJECT (ASMUGY I)

70%

CSCI-316/00629-65

HH SACK

AH LSALCL

PRIDLAN

HI HAVE

COrALs AH/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), Cl o, BID 1

11a1s0N &

BLS: LD;sT

19-5-1

PRA TO

---

