404-10107-10008) + [2022 RE

TION RECORDS ACT OF 19!

et

RETURN TO CIA oe
Background Use Only Cm yy
+ Do Not Reproduce

1] January 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SE Division

ATTENTION : Division Security Officer

o>
FROM 3 (thomas L. Briggs >
: SE/X/LA
SUBJECT : Appearance As Witness In Behalf of the

United States Government

REFERENCE : USA V. Gerald P. Hemming, Et Al. (76-371-CR-CA)

1. . During the period of my employment as a-Special Agent. at the
Drug Enfi wat Adabistiacion Qi 107! - 1977), T conducted an

interview of Gévald Patrick Hemming (DPOB 1 March 1937, at Los Angeles,
California) on 23 May 1975 at DEA Headquarters in Washington, D.C.

My report concerning that interview has become part of the case file

in USA v. Gerald P. Hemming, Et Al., Case Number 76-371-CR-CA, -
Southern District of Florida, Miami, Florida.

2. Upon my entrance on duty in SE Division on 5 January 1977,
I orally informed the Division Security Officer, Billy Hix, about
the information in paragraph 1 above. Mr. Hix asked me to submit
the information in writing as soon as I was settled in the Division.
On 7 January 1977, howevey,,Special Agent Robert Fredericks
telephonically contacted| DC/SE/X/LA, and told her that
the United States Attornery, Southern District of Florida, had
requested that I appear. at the U.S. Courthouse, Miami, Florida on
10 January 1977 to confer with the Assistant United States Attorney,
Karen L. Atkinson, regarding my appearance as a witness in behalf of the
U.S. Government in the trial of Gerald P. Hemming.

3. During the afternoon of 7 January 1977 I conferred with Mr. Hix
who advised me to contact the Office of the General Counsel. I talked
to Mr. Edmund Cohen who advised me to get in touch with the Office of
Security, External Activities Branch (OS/EAB). I completed an
Outside Activity Approval Request (Form 879), obtained the concurrence
of DC/SE, Mr. John Stein, and submitted the Form 879 to OS/EAB.
OS/EAB sent me to Central Cover Staff (Mr. Blandford) and then to the
Office of the General Counsel. After discussions with Mr. Cohen, I called


Gp eete eect, yee

S/A Fredericks in Miami at Mr. Cohen's suggestion. S/A Fredericks was
not available. Mr. Cohen then advised me to return to my office and
he would contact. me with further instructions. Mr. Cohen retained
the Form 879. Subsequently, Mr. Cohen advised me that I-should travel
to Miami as requested and that CIA would reimburse me for expenses
Connected with my activities in behalf of the U.S. Government. He
further advised me that being in an overt cover status I should State,
if asked under oath, that I am currently a CIA employee.

4. On 10 January 1977 I traveled to Miami where I met and
conferred with AUSA Karen Atkinson and DEA S/A Robert Fredericks.
They informed me that Gerald P. Hemming's case had been severed and
his trial would not begin on 11 January. AUSA Atkinson told me she
wanted me as a rebuttal witness if Gerald P. Hemming presented the
defense that he had been working at the direction of DEA. She said
they would not call me until and unless that defense was presented.
She also said that she felt that any attempt to question me concerning
my current place of employment was irrelevent and she would object to
any such line of questioning. She said she would only ask me where
I was employed at the time I interviewed Hemming. I returned to

Washiz

Hele gue 2

23
(Thomas L. Briggs)

Distribution: :

1 - ccs
1-0os
1 - oC



falay

oo SECRET
16 January 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM: Edmund Cohen
Assistant General Counsel

SUBJECT: U.S. v. Hemming

o}

. On 22 November 1977 the undersigned accompanied by Messrs.(Thomas
Beige) Gary Mattocks and Robert Barteaux, travelled to Miami to confer with
Judge Hoeveler, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas M. Sherouse, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida, about subject case. Messrs (Brigddand
Mattocks had dealt with Mr. Hemming while they were employed by the Drug
Enforcement Administration and Mr. Sherouse wanted them available as rebuttal
witnesses. Mr. Barteaux also was sought as a possible rebuttal witness to describe
the Agency's relationship with Mr. Hemming in the event that Hemming raised a
CIA defense.

°
2. On 23 November Mr. Griggs Mr. Barteaux and the undersigned met in

chambers with Judge Hoeveler, Mr. Sherouse, Mr. Roger Howard, law clerk to

Judge Hoeveler, and Mr. Ted Sakowitz, Public Defender for the Southern District

of Florida. Mr. Sherouse decided that Mr. Mattocks would not be required to

testify and he did not attend the meeting. The Judge initially expressed some reluc-

tance to have an ex parte conference because Mr. Hemming had assumed primary

responsibility for his own defense with only limited assistance from the Public

Defender. The Judge insisted that a transcript of the meeting be made but he

promised that the transcript would be sealed and, in fact, would not be transcribed.

3. The undersigned indicated that a Agency had no interest in the outcome
of the case and interposed no obj ection, fo e introduction of any relevant information.
Our sole concern was to protect Mr. Brie ind his relationship. with‘CIA both before
and after his DEA employment. ea J tae was informed that MF 3 Griggs) sole con-
nection with Hemming was on 23 May 1975 and that he had no contact with Hemming
during any period of Agency employment. The national security consequences of
exposure of Me? * Grigesjes well as the career consequences were outlined. In addition,
the Judge was informed that Mr. Barteaux was prepared to testify as an overt Agency
employee about any relationship between Hemming and CIA.

SECRET fete wii


03

“W

°
4. Judge Hoeveler asked Mr. Sakowitz to cross-examine Mr (ried to
determine whether he had any information which might be relevant to Hemming's
defense. Mr. Sakowitz stated that although he was aware that Mr. Hemming wished
to call Mr Brigg 23 a witness, he was not fully informed of all aspects of the case
and, therefore, reluctant to question Mr. Griggs)P3}Thereupon, Judge Hoeveler,
swore in Mr ?Griggs)and proceeded to ask him a series of questions to determine
whether Mr. Griggs) interaction with Mr. Hemming had been in any way connected
with his CIA employment. At the conclusion of this examination the Judge gave
Mr. Sakowitz a second opportunity to question Mr? @riggdjand when Mr. Sakowitz
again declined, he stated that in light of the national security consequences which
had been brought to his attention he was not inclined to permit questions relating
to Mr. Grigg CIA employment.
°

5. At the conclusion of the conference in chambers, but before the jury was
admitted into the courtroom, Mr. Sherouse informed Mr. Hemming that Mr. Grigg
was available as a witness. When the trial proceeded Mr. Hemming concluded
his defense without calling Mr? Griggs. Mr. Sherouse, however, did call Mr. 35
@riggdas a rebuttal witness. On cross-examination Mr. Hemming asked Mr riggs)
whether he was with CIA. Mr. Sherouse promptly objected to the question, the
Judge sustained the objection and Mr. Hemming went on to the next question. The
trial concluded soon afterwards without Mr. Barteaux being called as a witness.

It was subsequently learned that Mr. Hemming was found guilty as charged.

Edmund Cohen

EC: jz
Distribution:
Origing]/ LITIGATION-CRNAINAL, Hemming Gerald P.
- EC Signer
1- Chrono



CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST

COMPLETE AND FORWARD ORIGINAL AND 2 COPIES TO EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH

DIRECTOR OF SECURITY; ATIN: EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH |°

(Staff, division or office head and security officer, where assigned)

nee ADE GRADE OF. EMPLOYEE (Print or COMPONENT | NO. AND BLOG.
ype

T. FULL DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY FOR WHICH APPROVAL IS REQUESTED INCLUDING NAMES OF ORGANIZATIONS OR
CONCERNED. DATES. LOCALE. ETC. (Refer to HR 10-7 before completing) oF

+
fox pesel

2. REMARKS BY REQUESTOR

IN ENGAGING IN THE REQUESTED ACTIVITY, I WILL MAKE NO REFERENCE TO OR DISCUSS
MY CIA ASSIGNMENTS OR DUTIES. I (WILL, WILL NOT) BE IDENTIFIED AS EMPLOYED BY CIA
FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:
i wes &
under cov
(3ien?7}.

SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING EMPLOYEE

3: COMMENTS AND CONCURRENCE OF STAFF. DIVISION OR OFFICE HEAD

CONCUR:

DATE SIGNATURE OF OPERATING OFFICIAL
FOR COMPLETION BY EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

DATE:

SECURITY. APPROVAL HAS BEEN (GRANTED, DENIED)
FOR THE ACTIVITY CONTEMPLATED BY THIS REQUEST.

Al (ror) CHIEF, SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION

frie eto eee eee CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE


nn 7 cS

ila THe Soper - Roce, Shee all ua Q Dee
e Ae POD cnbuk 4 or Org ~ bob oh :
Bie Cotes A te aati half
“Wak Bxcory pate.
NFR om QA Pe
Wb Syte Wf Tarr Stermse B05 350 SY?
Tuk 2S Oct.

Ya Bod 2 Seg “ay
30 Och Tha Cal Cll WU Wt ble a 2) Gol
BSG Qa)

v0/ DS She of Sige eae

paaenry
_ wsitllecwia Boag
nls eles Wf Sfemme seh fl Uday 220d uy

Beli 20 nll come tele Bawa

uf is “of ve #6 S Pippetea, Botrars review a
Aas ne f “a t i a
ae ete gels Hagens | Card,

nie ode Sa 9s ae ge ee

wht COS Mf fo nox

Spy


iy 4
_ oa Rockville Ma LOFS0 of
Fou Nigh |
ening oe hie}

bee TT = fen FL 0ER

c& Been. Alsons Stade nen

2 ah ba

Qa AM on,

Lan =

a |
Y et 2 Sy Ke woh = be Hom

ee So 7 4 yrs) i i
ee sl an ees



CGevala P. awn) ae ED Pla.

US Ns Hemming —- Cooe Ne a6 1 - Cys CA udys Woailer
PO Bid Ct be 300.N E.. Swst Ave — Miaini Slendn,

221-2. 33,4en0x loo 350 ~4136 i" Ave 2 a

" Thamas M. Shevewss Ast US tony Gas). 3s0 a. wt).

eee iene Ammslep oe _ hm B56 2979S



ca Ne of 1
: sea * ,

Wevuden Va 22090
Spee = 431 F153 hice |
= DES 5S, : P97 es gr) =
Pe

Tours 27): Seh 11 — open Shodan

Sa Cua, mar hen i carb goghe Lucstome,

A =e _USss. Ho Fee |
yt both =

guna soled aly Nand 98b 47
3 we 1 es cette ase

YM Meare md) oer y api
sh fe, Maud Mpa c

Was 2 Ole gee



hk Be Er Lage + KOT

ze cb 5 LA pf

on null coy

’) TST Supe gall rel ny eee ae

Sate AE mn ted sere |

+ (eb di piety [ely aed tone

Lig — m0 ta) — em Abn LV.

ZB \wOA hOB ey my Wh, [tus VK) 3 175

ohn Me 13 4h
oo air Tena wife
oe = ie U
a “3 _ rou a v thew fis :
are a gi

nee



