# 104-10192-10227

## Page 1

4-00000

1104-10192-10227

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FBI

Meani 25 deide

Miani 28 July, 67

Re: MIRR Confidentice

Massi 26 July 67

Re: MIRR No Clad.

Newpork a5 July 67

Re: MIeR Secret

Meani, Fla.

20 July 67

Re: MIRR Seche

Muani, Fla.

3 Ques 67

Re: MIRR secut

Meanis

26 Ap1.67

105-2855 Be: MiRR

so class.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FBI

3, Mau. 67 Meani

Be: Robert Clatt Spiring

no class.

22 7a1.

i: Mie gianties

20 Man. 67

newdslease

Be: MIRRI

confidestial

---

## Page 3

14-00000

FBI

piani, Fla.

24 Feb.

Re: MIRR

class:

New bark

3 gan 67

Re: MIRR

No class.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

REPORT COVER SHEET.

SECRET

176-8720

PHOM

JNIWAVE

REPONTING OFFICER

Henry •J. SLOMAN

REPURTS CAPICER

John C. TARBELL/ ICP

APPHOVING OFFICER

REPORT

29 DECENDER 1966

AD NO

s'Ca cA.

41

DACKGROUHO DATA AND COMMENTO:

TYPIC

11 November

and DD-1983

10 November, from

AMTAUP-2 and ANOT-133; DD- 1979,

2 December,

from AMÓT-133, AMOT-1-15 and Ramon SANTANA Scoane: and DD-1999,

December, from AMOT-245.

The sccond paragraph of Field Comment 2

was received from ANCLEVE- 15.

RID: No index.

MICROFILMED

JAN 09 1967

DOC. MICRO SER.

(Group 1: Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Declassification

OPTIONAL: ENTRIES BELOW NETO NOT BE PILLEO IN IF DUPLICATRD IN ACCOMPANYING RETURT

DISTRIBUTION

INTRA-AGENCY

ATTRA-AGENCY

• - ros.

I - DC.

COUNTRY

1 ea. Miami Reps:

State

FBI

I&NS

U. S. Customs

Border Patrol

- USCG

NO. OF INCLOSURES

REFCRENCES

SUBJECT

118S

RI COPY

PADi

DOI

APPA 19-200-3

1467

PREVIOUS

D.-19500-15

SECRET

ES COPY

NO. PAGES

140)

i-duantui

---

## Page 5

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION: REPORT

CMRING DE SOUNCE A. Completaly rolablo.

to series el duubtrul honesty or loyolty, régardlesa ut

O Pol Usually colabla

d, Holdleely cannot do julerd

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT:

1: Confirmoo by olher indricado a af to: 994o cinere 01. 7i Peobot'yeruo, 3: Possblyteua. Al Guubitul, 5 PruLtaly

1a180.

5 Cariot to judiad

TD-i6-9-111-9-T-11-1

CONTOIL DUREIRO POSTIGA DISSEI

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT

Alliances Among, and Splitu

71 thin

Cuban taigre Orgaulzatlons

REPORT NO.

DATE OF REPORT :49 09805103 2853

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF December 1966

11an1

MACACO (20 Sat to to2a Decentor 1966)

UPG-8720

THIS IS UNEVALUATED IMPORMATION OCLONE QUALINGS ANE DERIMITICE ARFRAIDAL OP COMPRUT IO TENTATIVE

SOURCE: Members of a group of Cuban enigrou traiood in the techniques

of information collection. The group has provided useful

reporta since 1961.

1.

Surmary•

This report contains infornation on alliancos

anong, and solits within, sone of

tho Cuban enigre orguniza-

tions as they exlat 1n Deccole, 1060.

2.

Field Conment.

Tro organtrations which havo emergod as

doninant groups in the enlute cronunity aro the lloviniento

Insurreccional de Recuperacion lovolucionaria (MIRR,

Insurrectional Hovement for levolutionary Recovory), headod

by Orlando Bosch Avila, anù the Representacion Cutana en

el Exilio (RECe, Cuban Repregontation in Exilo), headed by

Ernesto Freyre Varona.

most oi the acelon-type

ero now associated viti ono vi thoso arouno

3.

As of December 1968 the sollowing organizatious ure associated

with

the MIRR:

4.

i, One faction of Comandos L (CL).

The allianco of the Segundo Prente Nacional del Escantruy

(SENE, Second National Front of the

Escambray) and A1pha-66.

Thie alllance has a autust argiatance agreemont with the

MIRR-CL alliance, although no fornal pact has been signod.

C.

The Moviniento de Recuporacion Povolucionaria Cubana

(ARC, Cuban Rovolutiouary. Recovory koveuent).

d.

The Comite de lyda a la Iloolatencia (CAl, Comuittee for

the Aid

to the Resistance).

The SINE-Alpha-S6 alliance,

in turn, has pacts

with the wow

York branches

of the follorius

orcanizations, lu

addition

to naving a branch of their orsanization in new York:

' C-0-1-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-1-L

CONTROLLED DISSEZ/NO FOREIGN DISSAI

GROUP 1

Excludes tres autoralne

declassetication

DISTRIBUTION

---

## Page 6

+14-00000

5.

CONTFOLLED DISSEAU FURLIGN DISSEN

-3-

U÷3I30

One faction of the Moriotento Revolucionario 30

Novlembre (HEIN, 30 lovester Fevolutionary Moreneat)

1. ERRC

c. Rescate Desocratico Resolucionario (RDR, Rovolutiozary

Democratic Rescue).

The groups listed belov are assuciated with the coordizaclou

de Fuerzas

Coordination of Forces),

alliance fered

Cubana en el ax:lio

8. One faction of tho Cl

b. One faction of the uRTN

c.

Movintanto Denocrata Cristlano (3DC, Christian Decoratie

6. The Ch is split dato tro

factions.

.

The faction thich is allied with the MIRR 16 headed

by Jose A. Rajoy, and is composed of the majority

of the action-type members of the original organisasion.

The faction which

is alfiliated with the Cr is beaded

by

Ranod

Font Sachell.

This fuction has a larger number

of the nenders of the

original organization, but fever

of the action type.

A sigulficant number of the senters

of this faction are adhoreats of Fulgencie Batista saldivar,

forer President of Cuba.

Each faction controls part of the equipment which belongad

to the original organization.

6.

The NRIN is split into three factiong.

.

The faction which is allied with the SENE is located

in New York, and 1s beaded by Hiram Gonzalez. Herrera.

Although

this group has few members,

it is the test

organized of the three factions.

The main activity of

this group is to collect s'ney for the sENE.

D. The faction which is associated with the CF 15 disorganized,

beset with internal dissensivo, and has few neakers. Since

carly suraner 1965, two leaders of this lactica hare resigned

becnuse

of internal problens, first Miguel Isa Fresneda,

then his successor, Luis loreno Alvarez.

RauT Horth is

not the leader of this faction, wiich is expected to

maintain its association sith the CF.

.

The third faction, wbich is called the frank ais

Sovolutionare Movement (URFP), is actually a phantca

impression that he nas a position of Icadership da tae

emigre comunity.

This faction is not known to be

connected with any other organization, although at one

tine it was associated with the Alianza Revolucionaria

Democratica (ARD, Democratic Revolutionary Alliaoce) •

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-1-1--1

ONTROLLED DISSEH/NO FOREIGN DISSES

---

## Page 7

14-00000

COMST32A0 E:402049 140883

the Laken

046:3739

1. Source Consoni.

approred of to affiliation of

In early Noreaber Frayre anid that ho

the sENd, Alphs-60

CAB, With the MIRa.

and

Ho said that tho estatonce of only

action groups,

those headed by RECE and HIRs,

gould

facilitato tho coordination of plans sor action againat

Cuba.

Field Comment.

Articles la

tho Staal Herald In December,

which repostod

tho dotention

in Baral of five Cuban

rotorred to this alllanco

the Cubad Coordinating Cormitted

(COC), and stated

Asociacion Voteranog do Bahin

de Cochinos (Biigada

4505) J, ABd Los Pinos Hyoroa (BN, Her Pines).

Anaocdation of Veterana of the Bay of Piga (Brigade

Anothor sourco who has asay close associates abo aro seabera

reported taat the As0019c105

dA AFQUISIOTOS CUDALOS

cuban ArchItects 1n Exile),

sunicipallty), a ChRpIOI.o1

too Cubad Municipalities In Exile.

(MCE) aro also associated with the cY.

The 10 Doceabor taquo of Diario les Americas Castled a paid

political announconent which biated that the Terminos

Municipales Independientes (Cubanos) (MMI, Indepeudent

rosigned fron the Mck.

Source Comsantg:

3.

2Dc's association yith the Ca bea not bois apronacod

publicly.

Joa la no longor activo 10 aulgre orginizatioos. He

davoton his time

to darocting and adainistoring a

BCDOUL for dontal sochalciana.

CHAOSED ELEUE/RE FAMIC 58536

---

## Page 8

14-00000

FBI

Meani

12 Dec. 66

Re: MIRR

miani

22 Nei. 66

Re: MIRR

Confidentire

Miami, Fla.

30ct.66

Be: MIRR

no class.

---

## Page 9

14-00000

104-10192-10227

FBI

29. Aus. 66

Mianis Ila.

Re: MIRR

secret

23. May66

meanie

Re: MIRR

Sect

---

## Page 10

14-00000

REPORT COUR SHEET

V. NAVI

"TAPhLINAL

I'THA-AGEMCY

AFTEr TO.

SUCKET

cine i -0274

REPOET

12 Hay 1906.

SOURCE CRIPP

ONtAVP-?

HILLO

DISIRIDUTION

State

FBI

IGNS

Customs

FANCESSIRG ACTIGH

-Tanis surer

TONGIES TEA INOCAIN

QUIRED

¡DOS FATA RIPODIED SEPARATELY

CS TISSIUINATION

TECS JISSEWIMATION

EATRA-AGENCY

—--

Border Patrol

USCG

SEVENTAL DATA

TYPIC

SOURCE:

received

AMTAUP-? in AMOT ruport DD 1857, 10 May 1960. He

information from Orlando BOSCHl Avila.

Comment is based

on UFG-S249

The Field

numbers.

and UFG-9251. Please add dissen

RID:

No Indes

Listen

REPORTS

MAY L9196:2

.

=oup 1:

Excluded from Automatic

Joingrading and

Declassification

1967 Grows

GS COPY

: 20)

11-306-30

---

## Page 11

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

$ Usus.

reging sourcei

falso "O Cirnee". de Mitte

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

HO FORGIGN HISSEM

REFORT.NO

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBICI ®

-Plans of the. Insurrectional

Movement for Revolutionary

Recoverv (MIRR) to Attack

•Soviet Vessel on the High Seas

D.ATE OF REFORT

In May 1966

NO PAGES

.1

REFERENCES

DATE OF

8 May 1966

INFO

PLACE &

DATE ACO United States, Mian

UFG-8274

110N00 1986E0 INCERVATOS SCUOCE GRADINOS ARL DIFINITA SOPRASAL DE CONTENE US PESTATIS

SOURCE

A member of

a group;of Cuban emigres trained in the techniques

of information collection. The group has provided useful

reports since 1961.

On 8 May 1966 Orlando, Bosch Avila, leader of the Movimiento

Insurreccional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR,

Insur

rectional Movement for Revolutionary Recovery), said that

He had a picture of a boat

which he said

would be used in the attack about 26 feet long

1.

2.

Field Comment:

Two recent reports from the same source

gave information which

may relate

to the plan.

One report

mertioned a MIRR plan which would

involve the United States

in a

"serious way"

, for which the MIRR needed a 29-foot

high-speed launch.

The other reported that a planned

attack

on

a vessel was aborted when the MIRR

beat encountered

difficulties after it was under way, but that another attempt

would

le made to carry out the operation.

Source

The name and registration nunber of the

boat was not visible in che photograph.

A man with

recoilless cannon was aboard the boat.

The date and place

where the photograph was taken is not known.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED

DISSEM

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

DISTRIBUTION

---

## Page 12

14-00000

REPORT COVER SHEET

JAWAVE

Miriation arricin

Honry S. STOMA

eraser: orricia

JalIn C. TARBELL/UCP

S-ECRET

•PORT TO.

UFG-8251

DATE OT PRONT

FROUCT

source cavi

AMTAUP-2

FIELO UISTRIDUTION

Miami reps

of:

FSCCESSINE ACTION

SNEET

MARACO ICA INOCHINO

NO IMPERING REQUIRLO

DES CATA MERCATEO SEPARATELY

cs

DISSEMIDATICN

TOCS

DCS

2 - San Jose-To cUT FoueL

EXTRA-ACINEY

State

FBI.

I&N'S

Customs

Boider Patrol

USCG

SUPPLIM ATAL DATA

TYPIC

SOURCE:

ANTAUP-2 in AMOT report DD-1843, 2 May 1966. He

received the information from Orlando BOSCH.

GrOUP 1: Excluded fron

Automatic Downgrading

and Declassification

COS M COPY

7.24

1467 trous

(20)

1?.3:9.4.

---

## Page 13

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

E Farto relable

Tele: last,

aprialia: Di COvilit l Contumes ty citer indecendeni anis reliable courier

2, Probbie true 3 Polstir live

Framel to 1u-iged.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

-NO FORAIN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba:

REPORI NO.

SUBICT E

Plans of the MIRR to Sabotago

Vessols of Nations Which Trado

#ith Cuba

DATE OS REPORTO MaY. 1986

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

:Apclad

DATE OF

INFO:

PLACE S

DATE ACU

SOURCE:

28 April 1966

United States, M1am1

(2 May 1966)

UEG 8251

¡MIS IS UNEVALUAIÇO INFURUÁTO

GOUGEE GHARINGS ARC DITITITIVI

AMPERICA. DO COCTIOT IS TIMTATING.

•A member of a group of Cuban emigres trained in the tochniques

of Intormation collection.

The group has provided useful

roports since 1961.

Fiold Comment..

The MIRR has for somo timo been planning

to attack vessels of nationg which trade with Cuba.

Besides sabotage on vessels in ports, members of the

MIRR have discussed plans

to attack vessely on the high

seas; some plans included the use of aircrait as woll aB

3.

• On 28 Apr1l 1966 Orlando Bosch Avila, leader of tho Movinianto

Insurreccional do Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR,

Insurrectional Movement for Revolutionary Recovery), said

that 20 men were located in varlous ports in the United States

and Latin America with orders to place explosives, which they

have, on vessels of nations which trade with cuba.

One of the

post mou is in Costa Rica, and the firat act of sabotage

against a vessel may occur there.

He said that the men are

in touch with labor leaders at the ports where they are located.

According to Bosch, he has recolved a vote of confidence from

members

of tho MIRR to

bo

solely responsible for the planning

and execution of the sabotage of ships which will bo carried

out by

theso wen.

Only he can identify the men and their

locations, and

he. is the only person who is In touch with

then.

He said

that not even the

MIRR knows the identities of the men.

Bosch sald that one plan of the MIRR to attack a vessel on the

high seas which

was engaged in Cuban trade failed when the

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO FORBIGN-DISSEA

DISTRIBUTION

1 COPY

---

## Page 14

14-00000

CONTIOSAIAL

CONTRULLED DISSKY

NO BURGIGN DISSE

- 2-..

UFG-8351

MIRk boat encountered

difficulties after it was under way,

was forced to return

to sta polut of doparturo, but

that another atronot will ba mado soon.

No sald that tho

Unitod. States Govornmont authoritles will bo unablo to

provent this attack

because the MIRk boat is outsido of tho

Unitod States.

Bouch congented that there atll to no pickoting when he soos'

11 the verdiet in not favorablo, he will

thon arrango stroat domonstrations and pickots.

Fiold Commonts:

1.

ThO MIRR publicly claimed crodit for the attack on the

SATRUSTEGUI,

Spanish vessel, at San Juan, Puorto Rico,

on 9 October 1965.

2.

An article on Bosch,

written by Carlos Martinez of the

Latin Amorican Staff of the Miami Herald, was publishod

In that newspaper on 1 May.

The article reports on the

militant activitios of Bosch and the MIRR which violate

facing threo separato trials in a

two-week period beginning on 19 Nay. The charges pending

against him includo:

conspiring to

export aims to cuba,

oxtortion, and illogal transportation and possession of

oxplosives..

sosch is quoted as saying that "vo have a

right to work for Cuba here or anywhore in thu world."

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 15

REPORT COVER SHEET

JMWAVE

TÜNG OFFICEA

Honry J. SLOMAN

orricia!

TARPELL/bep

SECRET

REPORT. NO.

UFG-8238

DATE O! REPORT

3. May 1966

PROJECT

CAYPI

AMTAUP-2

FIELD DISTRIBUTION

Miami reps of:

- Has.

- DCS

sider.

PROCESSINE ACTION

COVIA THIET

MARKED FOR

INOCHING

INDERING REQUIREO

OPS DATA PCPORTED SEPARATKLY.:

CO DISSCMINATION

TOCS OISSCMiNATION

IXTRA-AGENCY

Stato

FBI

I&NS

Customs *

Border Patrol

USCG

MENTAL DATA

TYPIC

SOURCE: ANTAUP-2.

28 April 1966,

Ramon DONESTEVE Dominguez, and paran 3-5-183 y

from Orlando BOSCH Avila.

RI cross-roteronce to 201-787318 and 201-299292.

MICROFILMEO

MAY :

Group 1:

Excluded

from

Autcmatic, Downgrading:

and Declassification

MUS A GADY

1467

USE

EDITIONS

120)

19-300-20

---

## Page 16

-i"!

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

CONFIDENTINL

CONTROLLED DiSSEN

NO FORNIAN DISSEM

có lạn de

Водовї N0.04 (286-200 222.0

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO

797545)

susier Posalbie PIckotIng In MIami by

DATE OF REPORT

May 1966

Athe MIRR on Bohalf of Ramon

Dones tevez Dominguez, #

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF

20 and 28 Apr11.1966

INFO:* "-

PLACE 8

Miamt

DATE ACQ:: (28 April to

(28 Ap/St to / May 1966)

UFG- 8238

IMO DO UNEVALUAICO LNCOGNAT CO SOURGI GEADIDUS ARI DIFINITOR: APPERISAL OF CONTADI IS:SENIASE

SOURCE:

A member of a group of Cuban emigres trained in the techniques

of Information

collection.

The group has provided useful ro

ports since 1961.

1.

2.

3:

On 20 Apr11 1966 Ramon Donostovez Dominguez expressed a desire

to meet Orland, Bosch Avila, leader of

the Moviniento Insurrec-

conal de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR, Insurrectional

Movement for Revolutionary Recovery),. He planned to ask Bosch

to arrango to have nonbers of the MIRR picket in Miami on 5 May

when he! Donestovez, was scheduled to be tried on charges

pondingagalnst h1m

for his activities which had resulted in

the confiscation of one of his boats.

In roturs, Donestevez

said he w1ll introduce Bosch to American Investors who can

assist Bosch financlally In his actlvities againgt Cubs.

Donestovez sald that his association with Bosch must be kept

secrot, but that it 19 an advantage to be friendly with an

action

group such as the MIrr.

On. 28 Apr1] Bosch sald that he was vory interested in neeting

with Donestevez and being introduced to American investors rho

might be willing to lend money to the MIRR.

He said that ho

was also considering baving Donestevez build a boat for the

MIRB.

Field Comments:

1.

Donestovez has been involved

in negotiating for the re-

of political prisoners in Cuba.

and he has travelled

to Cuba for that purpose.

•(C1• CSDB-312/01128-66 anc

reports.)

factory which manufactures

fiberglass boats at 2215 West Nineth Avenue, Hialeah.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DISTRIBUTION

---

