# 104-10276-10440

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10276-10440

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

13595

caict/ica

s. p. Barcilta

30 corterber 1965

201-491527

7350565

In ht the resusct of the Damily Cici, =5, a curcesy hea been

prepared concerntis Milnir sunar Polich-tom latted Staces Ajay

eulleted ran who deficted ou 2 fuzust 1550 eni us prentel palitical

a-yium-by the lecte.

2.

The follo dar treicround incoration concarning Sarah ha

obtainaa son Army Chicl of suaft Intelligence (iC.I)

1025aa To worn in Estater, Poloni, Ca T.Jeauary 192T

here lie attaied cabary cul tigh seicol until 19:3.

Es ses

pLogel In tus offic: of the LyD: 11 fEilLica IO JeRUETY 1993

to corteter 19:3.

it too tire the Garcia drau occupies Poses

enl scoot ins ceut to forcer anè feased Inhorer for the period

Sertezcer 1913 to l

19050

she 5= 1or in dirose ereci in June

19!5 SLEEOLA I

10, 215

or the Russiaro

san luüerrorated and force.

rock for the 1i72 i7

is a fussian, cal Corin

intesfreter/transl.tor

2s1l for 13.6.

2 escared in lay 2916-0nd

vent to festeria Carra

he was cincca 13 a UP comp in Lecell

100:

tce i? caiy until Feiruary 20:8

scen

be carated to in

the sea arable of the Mericultural

Comittee,

Fa rutaraad to Getry 1a Jul

1952 to obtalt inter

re to alica calicobent in thent.

Fejular fizor and

KES.

calisticat under tiss, proüren

"the

1n

cà castes as en allen calistce

colater la never asts and tas

201 to part bit, for dercey

for bacte tratnin

Inen" corelo

37 C: 210 MiSIC trcdálas.09.Ja3

assigaci to too: Just la uroig ict Fcrt Incas, Masth Carolina lis

dutie:

ith the thit

ras' that

and

Ruglen plus

tsir an; later,

eter/treatitor 1n the fa

Malei citien on it senict 1953

and the sere boat ans pasigned do is S13ta lJ Group with duty

statica at Recall, Carrao This ves his placo of aspipiseat

then he defectes.

201-257527

---

## Page 2

SENNET.

Ziz 25 vas Irresticated in 152, 1954,

i nirt of each Inrosti

sex me crier.

2:3 on: accortion on

restigation am talraces nes establicked

1n

1g

learsies ch 2a fugust 2255.

lon l the dear revealed that:

toson tolesosed his vlie on 2 lugut IÚ0, strtiaz be

get sou retam lous, ped on & Augint he seat his vire 2000 Nest

Germon Marie Caror

708:00). 6a9 duait to cent his nife a

past cera posterica toula stutine "tis care of yourcelf cid

chiliren to hove to rutter, I'12 try to kair jou in baglam."

An Intorules nith ple ince revealai la las dupressed over garoltag

205c03

estimatca to ie cuout #loco.co.

Kembaing ce suprach's tale surialed that his purbling red

indebtetross vere majorted to bis suzier in larch or April 1950

end that SLoBani ins coatezzed and d'anctal to set rio fersonal

Cornas end rapeared to ho co ching tick the instructions of hio

refuel clerteal dutics in the Fillications

Frocurciend Section a the Calcetion aù Disseriantion Esttalion

of the 513th lT Car.

CHEER CY DANG TOUCHE RE: IN TO BEE OF SEASEDA

50 In hugust 1550 C1. Finne sosa. meat of the 513th HII Group,

code the follong

Access.

collecti

tarsalack inton tion limited to prlorsts III

eitas one.

b:

Dution cranaco to cincuirging, filing and 110t125 of.

rublications concount drcilg.. Did nas caniact sources for

Laterial: Die rodo toenslideng di pestion. Els duty vas least

scasitive

wit

---

## Page 3

a sire notilitor inine to sovleus escort personelity.

cats to Coy fina sapniol, "nieu cota ir Col, 2003's optaoni

Streas.

ce personnel.

cro rettes ese me petes bis la contast vith Colloctica and

6. Colo Rus serortis & elocuesion with a Cart. intore, ae

on Indieated that cichobi zaa en officer lay

Polish Intelliceros ralco do icieuzing Tum Found, edding that thi

1554 to 1959.

WE: This ellagation agrecos to lick any fretunl basis, judgin

s tice recults of five incrol laycotletlais of stoneli and rin

poljmani irteric by derimy Cetueen 1952 cra 1953.. Other sources

Iadicated no record of cinnai's beinz comectea with Polish Irtel-".

11 gence.)

Ore Contain Jack NacTiG, GE. Ina, stated in Fraalcurt on

2 Santonder 1550 that do jaca Mosai wall as a macher of his (Manticio)

Section 505 11 Grouy do au Leade, Merglara, 1a 1953 saa that SORODA

then soù access to cuculucradio persorality inferration concerninz

Army Intelligence.

BE OF GWA:

FEE SOCAI

8. " Ceorge HoTLi

German santion Iron leys do 102, stated in Ortober ISdo that as early

as Perch 190 stood en handy his tara nice. Tract saw ELUZODA

about tirco tines in the latter's difica concoming the acquisition of

tasis tetelligence intert lo cuch co Eso Coron telenkone. books, city

plena, cte. TrustY questionod other CIA exployeca concoming teeir. T

knowicago of slonor.

an had my remeonel contect with hir but all

that that do hat so the s the one le a ta true han

of cli exployces ct Care ties.

9. The rolloving information wey extracted tros U.S. Arty Counter

Intelligencs Juani, Eatal 15 Felman Epól, concerning two approaca

oferaticas ifalest valera gersenscl by ürict Intelligence Sorrices (SIS):

=3

---

## Page 4

rie to met rent tus recruitareration nore directed

mine a hunt cities one For a loos the ly Gillian

nosized to ta: a toniucraso la festerlin..

Ioth chorsackes

sore rode sath is

i litera outefc cal postal chaarels

i cler one cally chiting tast the letter. bed

ben delireroà..

Thir

ictors melted the

wur personnel to attend

scotings 1n Est Fili stu Soriet regstrentatives. Büth vere

aruaiden subitent?-

ramant: l they sites to cooperate.. If the

offers vero reured; closu operationclicatoes corsitted by both

Individuals soul: bi repartea to lstein Intelligence nuthorities.

The sethod of suthentication cartages in both cases. Involved soasa

prondeart at a critrin tira over tie :Cross of soviet Furces,

German (unG) malo ircilitiess Mis phrascaloey chi contents

Indicated that the luiter; hed been provered by the same caney dad

tec tilarity to earlier

cyproach lotter,

inuntirely licatitseles haying been written by

the Coratice "or sirie security (K03), surcesto thiet the &GB was

also involred la tires urerations:

Ine jero en lie cirition coplegac riparently as provided os

verank Intonion

¡sistor Madimir scenar, sno descated in

AuTest 1500 Jia?

said at file? in the dear.

ine Initial tolophone

ca1l advisin; ti-t tie louter hai teen activised. lu cleo Sellevel

to kore koen see ly iDSDA. Tie lesd ci tee, corrant officer 4as

probably obtaio? by tie Is aron. Polian intelligence which sue-

creded in murallrin: ceveral sources haled by the varrant

SCLUSION

10.. It 1s not iron shether SuosA ts offilicted with the Sorlet

Intelligence corrices no this tire.

According to a Foreign Service

Dlepatch, dateú 19 iconior 1502, Iron the duerican Arbassy, Mosco::,

He's. Mery SChuteR Ian. Il:, wife of hartcet defector Joseph DouCe

(repostcaly now deccarai), stated during en intarylen at the Embasey

thet she kad ireguent carteet nith "Tiltes brabably Vadinir) SICBODA

end his Dritiob blie 10 rauired 1u Ivey. Accriing to 15s. DUsKAIICE,

SIOCOA sas dis listoned and vas cumatits to loare the Soriet Valon

but had been unable to obtain exit visc3.?

John F. lieredith

SECRET

-4-

101-28?517

---

