# 104-10013-10039

## Page 1

1104-10013-10039

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ABSTRACTED

SECRET

for as.

Date:

February 24, 1967

Sherse

TO:

Mr. Winston M. Scott

rom /No li ferris, Legal Attache

Subject:

WILLIAM RAY DOBKINS

105-5747

(2-24-67)

abcument is to the use of

agency chly and neither it nor its

contents should be further distributed

without appropriate authorization.

eATESORDED

Reference is made to my memorandum dated January

18, 1967, captioned WILLIAM R. DOBKINS, requesting authoriza-

tion to disseminate information concerning subject's contact

with the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

We have received information that the reported

travel to Mexico of the subject in order to arrange for his

defection to the Soviet Union occurred following his dis-

charge from the United States Marine Corps in August 1959.

He allegedly went to Tijuana,

Baja California,

where he

contacted a local "communist" with whom he had become ac-

quainted in a tavern, and sought to arrange his defection

through this person.

to be conducted in tijuana.

e are arranging for appropriate enviryo

7 mar7

described as follows:

Race

Sex

Date of Birth

Birthplace

Height

White

Male

January 16, 1937

McCamey,

Texas

5 feet 9 inches

Enclosure

ate told

no quite insis.

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

1. 8593

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

Weight

Hair

Eyes

Scars or marks

Education

150 pounds

Black

Brown

½-inch scar middle of forehead

High school graduate

It was the opinion of the Sheriff of Ward County,

Monahans, Texas, that all members of the DOBKINS family are

mentally unbalanced.

For your assistance in determining if subject has

possibly been a visitor to a Cuban or Soviet establishment

in Mexico City, a photograph of the subject is enclosed.

SECRET

2: "

---

## Page 3

13-00000

POUCE

ODEIRA TEXAS

P*17460

"9318*B8

---

## Page 4

13-00000

WILLIAM RAY DOBKINS

DPOB: 1/16/37, Mc Camey, Tex.

WMA

5'10"

145 lbs.

Med. Build

Black Hair

Brown Eyes

Res- 307 S. Doris, Monahans,

Tex.

Bus - 415 s. Main, "

---

