“'404-10263-10047 [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

i Tats docungrt can 1

f ee: - Murber.-w of -

alleles SECRET
ABA/CCA - Mr. Stevenson July 9, 1965 i

ARA - George Lister

Visit of Cuben Elle Victor Espinosa

In accordance with our conversation yesterday I have set
forth below a report on the visit of Victor Espinosa.

A Veneruelan Christian Democratic friend of mine, Valmore i
Acevedo, called me from New York City yesterday moming to ask y
@s8 @ personal favor that I receive a Cuban exile Living there
who had something “amazing to tell me. When I expressed mild
skepticism, Acevedo urgently repeated his request and I agreed,
Within a surprisingly short time the Cuban, Victor Espinosa,
arrived at my office (he said he had taken the plane inmedi-
ately). Espinosa gave his address sud telephone mmber as
follows: 415 East 52nd Street, HA 1-7875. A summary of his
statements follows.

Espinosa has been involved in Cuban liberation activities
for many years, He opposed Batista and opposes Castro. He is
mot a member of the March 13 Movement, but has long been very -
close to many of its leaders, including Cubelas, Espinosa was
trained by CIA, in both Louisiana and Guatemala, and was one
of those who was sent into Cuba prior to the Bay of Pigs, He
plans to become an American citizen in August of this year, |
He admires the United States and American strength and compe-

, tence in many fields. He asked a New York acquaintenance of
“az Rls for the name of someone in the Department involved in
Latin American affairs, He was told Acevedo knew such an _
sftictal, Eepinosa asked Acevedo (without, he claims, re-”

vealing his story), and the latter called me,

Pprrorantnpeersaseremestesremerry

A little earlier this year Espinosa received a request
from one of his reiiabis Cuban contacts in Europe, asking that
he come there quickly, Espinosa went to Miami, obtained falas
Cubsen papers, and went to Paris, there, apparently in the
resence of the Cuban Ambassador to France, he met one of the.

top security" man of the Castro rezime, who lad come to Paris
for that purpose, During various neetings, beth in France end.

SECRET

7

G a

A fre autowatie
rr ding and
deolusuifivation

Srfesce



SECRET

-2-

in Spain (which Espinosa entered illegally), Espinosa was in-
Vv formed that there is a plan to overthrow the Castro regime
and to kill Castro and some of his main leaders, The plot is
ied by Cubelag and some of the March 13 Movement, plus (I be-
lieve) some military officers. They must move very quickly
because more and more people are learning of the plot and
there is growing risk cf exposure, They are anxious to have
some coordination, or at least cor ::ltation, wich responsible
Acericans, They are not confident that they could win an all-
out fight against the Castro forces, and are thinking more in
terms of taking contrul for a short time (perhaps only a few
hours), killing Castro and-his most: effective men (thus 9 7”
ruining the Castro movement forever), and then trying to hold
out for as long as feasible. It is esgential that they know
what, if anything, the Americans might do to help, now and/or
later, when the coup is attempted. Also, thay wished to alert
the United States Government to what was being planned.

The_Cubans might have turned to Garl Williamson, the ¢IA
* _ . man in(Madrid) However, they believelWillianson)is completely
unreliable, A Cuban girl was sent to Madrid some time ago by
the Castro people, Cwilifam was fooled by her and, being
wery fond of women, set her up ir. an apartment in Madrid, He
@lso arranged for her to work with the International Rescue
Committee, When the proper moment came, four months ago, she
flew back to Havana with some very useful files, In these !
cixcumstances the Cuban plotters have no confidence whatever :
ta Wi] 1famson: They urgently asked Espinosa to be their Boe 1
between with reliable American officials e “top security" \
wan returned to Havana, while one Yesentative of the !
plotters waited in Spain for an answer,

Tec necne ones een

i Espinosa hurriedly returned to New York City, He called
O'Brien of the New York FBI-to ask that the latter arrange for
hia to talk with some serious and reliable man from CIA,
O'Brien did so, Eapinose then told the foregoing. story, and
sere, to & CZA man named "Hal", Hal impresacd Espinosa as
being intelligent and reliable, Espinosa understands that Hal
©F someone else want to Spain to check on ais Story, At all
events, Espinosa was agsured CIA understood the urgency of the
Batter Gnd that he would be called within a few.daya, A waa!
has pacsed, However, no call han come and time is apadly

SECRET

|
t
i
4
i

gpa seeie



SECRET

-3-

running out, Espinosa's friends in Paris keep calling him,
cautiously asking whether there has been some “response”,

but Espinosa has had to keep putting them off. Meanwhile,
the Cuban who was waiting in Spain for the answer has had to
return, Espinosa keeps waiting to hear whether the Americans
will play ball with the Cubelag group. The plot has lasted
for over 18 months, and the plotters plan to go ahead very
soon no matter whether the Americans "play ball" or not. Ons
reason is that they almost have to go ahead now, for tie plot
will soon be discovered and then it will be entirely hopeless,

spinosa also referred to a jeweler by the name of

teppdd 4no (spelling?), located at 47th Street, in New York
City. Teppéklino worke for CIA and has frequent contact with
the Cuban Ambassador, in Paris, The Ambassador regularly dis-
poses of jewelry and other valuables made available from Cuba,
He 1s this through Teppéllino, However, the latter fools
an Yor example, the Ambassador agrees to sell for $80,000.

‘eppel{ino informs CIA the price is $110,000, and, quietly
pontces the difference, On the other hand, Teppeliino and
CIA think the Cuban Ambassador does not know he is working for
CIA, but the Ambassador does know,

Espinosa is determined to bring the very dangerous
situation of the Cuban plot to the attention of some top level
official in the United States Government unless he receives
at least some reply from CIA.

Conment:

Espinosa was not overly tense aud di4 not indulge in his-

trfonics, but I felt he was quits determined to puch thie

watter further if he did not get some response within the very
near future, I cannot, and do not have to, judge his reii-
ability on the basis of this one conversation, However, if *

d to guess at thie point I would be inclined to accept mo!

what he said about actugl events, Sut of course thera are
all sorts of obvious possibilities, including provocation,

In accordance with what we agreed on, while Espinosa was

SECRET



tS]
is
et

>
'

waiting, I returned and told him at some length that of course
this was not the sort of thing we got into, However, I added
that I would see to it that Someone cailed him. I further
eaid thet, unofficially, I had enjoyed talking with him,
Espinosa seemed somevhat mollified and temporarily . reassured
by this, Kowever, I doubt very much that he will wait longer
than wo or three days more before making another attempt to
bring this situation to a head,

CRE

