# 104-10186-10337

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10186-10337

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NFO!

DATON

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

rile materal raniaine InfOralIoR sEellaR lLe Mallonal Defense of lse l'alled Bisiri mishin the meanine of the Explenade Lara Mile

iN l'S C. stra 199 and ill, the irasalatio do, jerriallon of ahica is

enT masDes lo an unautharied persoa la probiblial ly late.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

COUNTRY

Cuba

REPORT NO.

CSC1-31G/02291-65

SUBJECT

Political Attitudes and

Atfiliations in the

Direccion

Gereral de Inteligercia ‹DGI)

DATE DISTR.

1 June 1965

NO.. PAGES

2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

1964

SOURCE:

Washington,

D..C.

(February 1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service untal April 1964.

1. Although there are many members of the Direccion General de.

Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence + DGI) who

appear interested in and favorable toward:the Communist Party,

Source knows of enly

three persons who are actually members:

SaUl GONZALEZ, alIAS"Denis"; Manuel VEGA Perez, alias "Marcos

Viera"; and Folas SCAREZ:

alias "Federico Santiesteban"

SPIREZ wis a sort of political adviser in the DGI operations

departmerts, bu! insisted he was not a commissar, but, rather,

a person in

Although Source and the other officers

would tease StAkEZ by calling him "Comisario",

SUAREZ greatly

resented the term and actually physically attacked Source for

polisal indoctrination meeting which all personnel were

Every Saturday morning at 8:50, SUAREZ held a

scurce was habitually late to these

sessions,

was given penalties for his obvious

disaffection, he never paid any

attention to them.

personnel source know weir perfectly willing to talk politics

among themselves but in a rather desultory way; the discussions

never went on very long.

2. Apparently during 1962, there had been considerable sentiment

for Anibal ESCALliTE and his faction,

the Partido Socialista

Popular (PSP), but in 1961 the PSP group was disrupted and

the real loyalty was to Fidel CASTRO rather than to the Party.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SOCARD FROSESSED

3

2

4/pV

STATE

I DIA

REPCINCLANT

ARMY

CINCSO #

Nore. Field distritution indicated by "$".)

TAIR

INSA

IANS

NA

CINO N

ORI

WHEE

I TE CANAD-VE

3LIF BRITISIA I

75-₴

INC-US

TOTALS WIIiC 8

HID 15

(1), HE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

INKX

I OCR

IFBI.

2

LX-2427: 11-2128

NP

(AMMUG-1)

CSCI-316/02294-

COOPOINTING REST

LIAISON *

19-5-1

---

