# 104-10221-10320

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10221-10320

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

NH/COG 271-23

s October 1975

MENORANDUM FOR'S

Office of Gonoral Counsel

ATTENTION

r. JohnS. Warner

SUBJECT

Quory from Dantel E. Schultz, Bsq-,

Concorning Watergato Defendant

Frank A. Stursts

REFBRUENCE

Letter of 27 September 1973 from

Attornoy Schultz

Attachod is additional Information fron

Headquarters files on tho actlvities of Nr. Frank A.

sturgis In responso to the query of 27 Septembor 1973

fron Mr. Sturgis' attornoy, bandol f. Schültz.

Orvillo

Batho

C/WI:/ COG

DDO/WHI/ COG/OS/CHopkins: jw.

Distribution:

Orig.

¿ 1 • Addressee

1.

DC/ KTID

1

• Originator

2 - KH/COG

• WH Registry

• Watergate

File

@ - Sturgis 201-2/2256

SECRET

ES) IMPOET CL BY. SS/SSS

---

## Page 2

14-00000

3 October 1975

HEMO RANDUM

In cosponse to Dantel E Schulted lottor of

27 Soptember 2973 requestins Clartfication of

Prank A. Sturgts, connoction or assoclation with the

no arency rocords moro agin rovlowed with the

allowIng rogutts

Thero lis no vuldonce that Mr.

sturgis officially

parelcipated in tho bay of Pigs Invasion.

Attachod is

the copy of an article which appeared In

The Washituscon

ROBE On 14 MaY 1962

concornins columnist Jack Andorson's

Incorvior of Frand Florind (Sturgls) In which Mr. Sturgis

roils of his solo in cho Bay of rigg invasion.

Any

activitles that Mr.

sturgis night have been ongagod in

concorning

the bay of pigs Invasion vere in no way

connected with or auchorizod by the Cla nor bas CIA

knowlodgoable of any such activitles. Mgo attached aro

artIclos

by Jack Anderson which arpearod in Tho Washington

rost and The Flami Horald on 21 August 1932, In Tolation

to Tir.

surgis activitios against the Cuban governont,

and another arcielo published in Tho Miani Horald on

10 sepseaber 1963 which shows that Nr.

Sturgis was neting

without authority of the v.s. coveranent.

our filos indieato that ir. Sturgin mag arlendly

with persons.

tho wore contacts or agants of ciA.

khilo

Me. Scurgis may lnve been

aware that thoac persons sore

Ht. Sturgle Ma not

by this Aponcy.

Most of

the Information on

His.

Sturgis avallable

to this Agency is containod in FSl soports conceruing his

uumórous pello actlvitles.

Atenchment to W!/COC 271-73

Distribution:

Urls: 81 - Addresseo

1 - DC/ WID

1

• Originator

2

- NH/COG

1

- Wii Registiy

1 - Matergate File

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

Öctober 1973

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Frank FIORISI - STURGIS'

Following is information from further revicw of FIORINI's

official file in response to Daniel E. Schultz' inquiry to

the Agency dated 27 Septeaber 1973.

There are four volunes to FlORINi's 201 file, the:

majority of its content being reports from the ful dated

from 1958 through April 1969.

Agoncy infornation includes a cable from Santiago de Cuba

dated 7 January 1959 stating FIORINI clains to be chief of

26 July Arms buyer Miani and willing cooperate 100 percent.

in supplying info. Cable stated it possible FlORINI nay lose

value to robels but believe worthwhile CIA endorse his staying

on. Has CIA replied that FlORINT had been under FBI

investigation for possible registration act violations and

base should deal with FIORINI under

strict Consular cover

and not make any commitrents which might later be construed

as USCOVT approval his activities. Wish to reiterate here-

that FIORINI was never employed by the CIA.

The following is sorthy of note. FIORINI was involved

in Nov/Dec 61 leafles dropping flights over Cuba. The FBI

queried CIA about allegations that the flights by FlORIdl and

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

Alexander RORNE, Jr., were ontirely supported by CIA with CIA

arranging Air/Sea rescuo, and that all of FlORiNI's actions

were known to CIA Miami and his activities being done on CrA

instructions. Nigs CiA was satisfied allegations not true but

troubled in view fact FoRiNT was in contact with CiA rep

Florida who used name "Barker! who supposedly gave FIONINI

phonc number for CIA Niami office.

FIORIN was to call this

number if he was arrested or stopped on flights and clA would

"got him out". These cuban overflights were not authorized

by CIA and the FBI was alerted to fact it was not ClA

operation. (BARKIR was generilly known in Miami Cuban exile

community as a ClA sourco.) Since BARKER was à close friend

Of FIORINI, BARKER, shortly before the Bay of Pigs Invasion,

was asked by ClA to attempt to obtain from FlORINT information

concerning FIORINI's activities. BARKER met with FORINI

several times a mönth from fall of 61 to July 62: BARKER

insisted when queried by CIA case officer, that he never

revealed classified info or operational data including JwAVl

phone numbers to FIORINI. FIORINI told BARKER that the

leaflet op was conceived by Sergio ROJAS. A las cable to

JMWAVE dated. July 1962 stated that ROJAS had been non-operational

since Feb. 62.

SECRE

---

## Page 5

14-0111000

SECRST

In response to Daniel E. Schultz! letter of 27 September 1973

requesting clarification of Frank A. Sturgis' connection or association

with the CTA, Agency records were again reviewed with the following

results.

There is no eviderice that Mr. Sturgle officially participated

In the Bay of P188 Invasion. Attached 1s the copy of an article

which appeared in The Washington Post on 14 May 1961 concerning

colunmist Jack Anderson's Interview of Frank Plorini (Sturgls)

In which Mr. Sturgle tells of hie role in the Bay of P188 invasion.

Any activities that Mr. Sturgls might have been engaged in In relation

to the Bay of Pigs invasion was in no way connected with or authorized

by the CIA. Also attached are articles by Jack Anderson which appeared

In The Washington Post and The Miami Herald on 21 August 1962, in

relation to Mr. Sturgis' activities against the Cuban gövernment, and

another

article publlshed in The Maml Heralu on 16 September 1963

which

shows that Mr. Sturgls was acting without authority of the U.s.

Government.

Our files indicate that Mr. Sturgis was friendly with persons

sho were contarts. of CIA. While Mr. Sturgis may have béen aware that

these peraons were contacta of CIA, Mr. Sturgia was not involved.

in operations sponsored, approved or funded by this Agency.

Most of the information on Mr. Sturgis available to this Agency

1s. contained in FBI reports concerning his nunerous exile activities.

itt

---

