# 104-10529-10053

## Page 1

104-10529-10053

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CHIASE

s't

TRITOR

PRIA MEXICO CITY

•ACTION:: W

INFO:

DCOS, CA Zy Ca/REC, CA/PROPe CA/Ou, e1/0P5,

€, F8, 81/0, 11/ 1N7

TOC: - 3/566, 202

NOV 27 20382 63. iN tEc

SE0 9= T 2623017

DURi INFO LOND CITE MEXI 7089

INTEL

SUPDATA SOURCE LIF IRE

NECD 2623012

REPORT CLASS SECRET HIM 8875 MEXICO POLAND.

SUBJECT DEPARTURE OF MEXICAN DELEGATES TO MEETING OF THE WORLD PEACE CONCIL

00: 25, NOVENDER 63 PADA MEXICO MEXICO CITY 26 NOVEMBER 63 APR 21

SOURCE PERSONS (B) WITH GUOD ACCESS TO TRAVEL INTO:

NO" SEPARATLI CAULL STRiDUTI

I PACY

MY 2/144

PRECEDENCE

1h0dNQ2

ADATE DISTRIBUTED.

275 NOv 1963

11112.

DATED DA:

•LIAISON:

THose

REPRODUSTION CY OTHER TMAN ISSUING OUTINE IS CACRIBIZEON

8075;

RE

Copy IS

---

## Page 2

COUNTRY

SUDICT

INTUMANON TOrCIDA

CENTRAL INTELLISONCE ROCNCY

'na il co tanto a laon pra dios rosa o on biod Salemã o merdo o do cooraço come, lino 1a a .

ELES FICATOR L DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

(55%87 8435058-8598

MEXICO

UEPARTURE OF MEXICAN DELEGATES TO MEETING:

OF WORLO PLACE COUNCIL

REPORT NO. TDOS -3/566,000

DATE DISTRI27 NOVEMUER 1963

•DOECEDENCE

. PEFFRERCES

,INFO.

PLACE &

• DATE ACO.:.

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

THIS IS LINEVAI UATED INFORMATION

SOUPCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

FINE ORAMOS DE CONTINE TENTATIVE.

PERSONS (8) HITH. GOOD ACCESS TO TRAVEL INFORMATION.

1. ON 25 NOVEMBER 1963 ALONSO AGUILAR: MON EVERUE DR. GUILLERNO

MONTANO ISLAS, AND FERVINDO CARMONA, ALL NATIONAL LEADERS OF THE

MOVIMENTO DE LIBERACION NACIONAL (MLN- NATIONAL LIGERATION MOVEMENI)

LEFT MEXICO CITY BY AIR ON SABENA AIRLINES FOR LONDON ON FOUTE TO

WARSAW

2. FIELD COMENTE AGUILAR, MONTANO: AND CARMONA, WILL ATTENDIA

MEETING OF THE WORLD PEACE COUNCIL (W.C) IN WARSAW, POLANDO AT

WAS, PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT MARIA ELENA VAZQUEZ COMEZ, MEXICAN

COMMUNIST

AND AÍDE TO GENERAL LAZARO CARDENAS. DEL RIO,

PROMINENT PRO-COMUNIST FORMER PRESICENT CRIMEXICO, MAS ALSO

SECRET

SUFICATION = DiS

TE GORA

"Ica.

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

---

## Page 3

SECRET

T003 -3/566, coz

lis

68623

EXPECTED TO ATTEND THE UPC MEETING IN LARGAN HOWEVER, VAZQUEZ GOMEZ

C10

NOT TRAVEL WISH THE:

TURE ABOVE -EATIGNED MERICAN CELERATES.

3. FIELD DISSEM STATE FBI CINCSO

END: OF. NESSAGE

SECRET

---

