# 104-10131-10021

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10131-10021

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

RECORDEU

CONTROL DESE

19 Uctober 196û

(Date)

FIle No. K-I1l

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Records and Services Division

Office of Personnel

SUBJECT

:

Arna TiRASOFF

as "rit".

1. Cover arrangements erect bobber oudoor have been com-

pleted for the above-named Subject.

2. Effective 13 October 1960

-, It is requested that your

records be properly blocked 222dee to deny sctrauberge Subject's

current Agency employment to an external inquirer.

3. Operating component must take necessary action to block

sooper telephone locator by submitting the Personnel Information Card,

"Office File Copy," Form No. 642,

to Machine Records Division, office

of the Comptroller, Room 107 Curie Hall, Attention: Miss Wenkenbach.

OCB/CCG,

This memorandum confirms an oral request of la rtiferald,]

IS/ PAUL P. STEWART

GLEN E. MOORHOUSE

X.3% 18068826100201X:

Acting

Chief, Central Cover Discinisen Group

cc: SSD/OS

Operating Division - CI

10511

SECRET

Argy 1580

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

14-13-10)

2/g0

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENT •

OF OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP

DATE

TO

CI Staff

ATTN:

03

REF :

Mce Janderghind

Your memo, dated Iii October 1960

OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP UTILIZED

19 October 1960

ESTABLISHED FOR:

Anna TARASOFF

FIlà NO. I-I21

Coordination and Raceras Office, OSA

All information concerning this cover arrangement is available in the

Official Cover and Liaison Branch, CCD.

2. It is requested that OCL be notified when this cover arrangement is no

longer required.

1930.

1S/ PAUL P. STEWART

CCs PSD/OS

FORM

12-58 1551

SECRET

(13-20-43)

---

