# 104-10169-10253

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10169-10253

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

BYES OLY

John Fiaft

From:

Fial swonson laSt 51178)

RETURN TO CIA

Subj:

CRA OES ALD PLOT TO KILI FIDEL CISTRO, RAUL OL SERIOdUOS

Background Use Only

AND OTHER KEY FIGURES OF THE PRESENT REGIME

Victor ESPINOSA Hernandez, (201-235147), born 26

August 1937 in Cardenas, latanzas, Cuba, a PHi

was terminated as a malcontent on

20 Liarch 1961.

1s 415 East 52 Street, NYCE, where his telephone

18 IIA 1 7375.

Supplomental Data: ESPINOSA flew Air France from Orly

Airport (confirmed by cachet in pp) on 29 May 65 and on

arrival In NYC the same day contacted an INS Agent named

CAVASANJIAN (Phonetle) who, on the basis of infornation

In the story of ESPINOSA which appeared to affect U.s.

Special Agent Frank O' BRIEN

sf the NY Flold Office of the FBI-Interviewed ESPINOSA

on 2 Hay 65..

The FBI notified us on 3 May.

ESPINOSA on 4 lay in the NY field office of the FBI.

Frank O'BRIEN was present. (O'BRIEN said that INS at

Washington, DC apparently had received a report and

had notified FBI headquarter's from which a supervisor

bad telephoned O' BRIEN to inquiro whothor o'BRID knew

about aspects of ESPINOSA's story with derogatory

-allogations about the CIA, Including Earle WILLIAMSON.y

Paraphrase of the source's story:

I do not have a high

regard for the CIA or for

most of the exiled Cubans but

I am against the Castro regimefor which reason I have

bocome involved in these matter about which I must be

sure the CIA Is informed.

I contadted the INS and the

FBI boonuse through them

I could ensure contact with a

responsible CIA officer.

I was a good Iriend of Rolando CUBELAS. We conspired

togother againat BATISTA and we planned assassinations

o8 Batista supportors.

We carried out the killing of

one of the SIM chlofa. ai00 dulan, successfully.

A lot

or tho things the the AntI-lArIStA aturents did vore not

offootivo but we did more than trik and this old

_ ABsessination 1s proof that poople like Rolando and myself

noto

Äfter OASTRO look ovor I loft duba nnd ongagod in antt-lastro

potivition.

I got shot in the procons; I was botrayod by

somo of tho Cuban oxiles whon I was going to bomb Ouba,

I sat how the OlA bungled and I boonmo bittor.

I was bitten

about Rolando too. I thought that he hnd turnod communist.

¿ nont him a moanago a long, time ago, cotling nir that no

was a tralton and no triond of mina.

That was whon a lan

Amorloan atowardons whom ho l1kod osmo to no with a mosaago

rom him about how he wan still a filond of mine and thine

nore not Ilko thoy soumed.

Kou mad and told nor to tol.

1/900

---

## Page 2

14-00000

it off for re and I showed her the bullet wound in ry ler

that I had because I was richtine CASTiO and those with hir

11ke

iolando.

Afterwards

I did not hear from Rolando until

just a littlo whilo ago.

It was

"ay when I not a lotter fron an old 'friend, Luis

PERIAlDEZ! " 'he had written to rie

before to let me know that

he 1s working for the clA in faris.

This letter in lay was

protty.confusing but Luis made it clear that there was

something very important, that It Involved Rolando sUsaLAS,

that Rolando wanted me to go to Paris on an urgent natter,

and that another friend, Luis Irasencos, knew something

about 1t.

The letter said that the CIA

knew about this

and that

Luis FERNANDEZ thought maybe the CIA already had

_told me to go to Paris, although he was not sure.

I decided to go to Paris because of the mention of Rolando.

The CIA had taken my old Cuban passport when I was in

training In Guatemala and noter returned it.

I got cauht when I tried to bomb cuba, the INS had warned

no not to travel outside the U.S. saying I gould go to jail

for five years and t cold not get a reentry permit and all

that. Howerer, I checked with and INS officer who knew me,

He said that probably the INS was not so Interested in me

anymore and I probably could get a reentry.

Because the

not to go through a lot of rod tape.

to see my brother, Rene, residing at 5000 sw 69th Avenjo,

Hiami.

He arranged through some friends whum I.don't: k70t

to get me a false cuban passport.

(Note:

The pp has

number 423335, Is dated 19 November 1964, bears the true

name of the source; and has entry and de arture cachets

for London on 4, 7, 10. and 21 May 656; for Le Bourget on

and for orLy on 29 Mayo5).

and lost roy arts without having any trouble.

I bought a ticket

I am.not

sure about the dates and the

sequence of travel because

averything was so hurriod.

I went to London as well as to

Faris and I triod to go to Spain but had to turn back.

Anyway I remeber the important things.

At Paris I telephoned Luis TRASENCOS who invitod mo to

lunch

in his apartment.

When I pot there, I found Alberto

BLANCO,

"En LoCo"

•. whom I have known sinse early 1959 and

whom I

considorod a traitor.

I callod vuis asido to tell

him this but duis explained

that BLANCO was Instructed by

Rolando QUEDLAS is 500 MO,

that Lodo and Rolando aro againat

cAstro, and that my sooing Loco was the reason that it was

so urgont for mo to come to Par1so:

Rolando OUBEAS had been 14 Parla a OOpIO IS Montha onslos

nocording to 11 loon, had loft a lottor Instructing

In tood to got word to me personally and acking that I get

In touch with the Old on the hirtent lovel. .

57 Loo did

not huro the lottor with him but I bollovo

1to I know that

that 1s wrong about thom

I know what 1o good about

and how to shook

on thinr.e.

So I orons questioned

In h000 and others unts? I was auro that thoy told no tho

---

## Page 3

truth.

"hat I ar telling you is what I found out iron

El Loco, confirmed lated through Blingo RORario,

and

confired in part through questioning others who !now

parts of the story but not all of it.

Rolando CUSELAS plans to k1ll Fledl and Raul CASTRO and

Rolando has a house at

Veradero Beach adjacent to the house of Fidel, so 1t 15

easy for Rolando to ret Fidel anytime.

The idea 1s not

just to kill Fidel tut to change everything in Cuba so

• Rolando has the cooperation of other peoplehose names

§I do not know turt except for El Loco Blanco and El

rago

* Robreno and AL'EIDA.

Rolanado is very security conseddus

noney,

because

g so he does not want people Involved to know any more than

o is necessary.

You must understand the danger to these people.

need

ohhat I can

i drea a tea on so sort relando and are truthor

but both worship Rolando and are trustworthy

El Loco is back inside Cuba now.

noed sune

maybe later I shall k1ll. him hut for now

* believe thathe

80

he

send soreone to seg you

i will

or

BO

Rolando and to not taunt for to matte

and can be trusted for the matters which invölve

A1

Some of the CIA people are nottrustworthy.

This Is what

#bothers Rolando CURELAS and El Loco and. El Mago and me too..

This is why Rolando wants me to get his message through.

The mogsage lo that CUBaLiS and

Polando will

If jou agree to support hi

Among other things Rolando.

bought.

the others with him are able to kill Fidel and othors in

the regime, but they weed some help and they need to know

who ther

the CIA and the U.S. Governemnt ate with them and

owilling

to

gupport them or notarts the answer la affirmative,

Caban not American,

sons people have to

Rolando will send detaila anon wed

vessend soi forth.

Tiro Is Important because Rolando says that he cannot delay

Snore than three or four months.

That is the maximum.

Cban

security forces would find out and arrest everyone if there

gda more delayer

Bel Loco and El lago said that on 5 or 6 June someone 18 passing

through liadrid en route from trague to habana and that this

person could carry the anguer to rolando.

They did not say

how 1 should get the anger to El liago but 1 suprosa I can

aly to ladrid

to give 1t in porson and, 1f you want, oneof

I myself auspect that Rolando w111

move carlior than in two or three montha.

I bellove that

26 July 1s a good unto because all the chief targets w1l1

bo assoriviod no it hill be onsier to got them nil fast, but

Rolando did not sond mo this as hds plan.

81 L000 and k1 inno

have noones to any cuban ambaasy in shotppe

Europo and thoss embrasion nre oninged in controta with

communints and in subvorsion.

Ito samo amplion to ombusalos

In ALriDa.

Il l0o0 and tl hugo oould have boon riving you

valuablo Informution n11 alone,.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

E1 Loco was In Buropo as an officer of Cuban Security.

He

had codes, ciphers and microfilm to prove

this and re showed

then to

one of jour pearle in ladrid.

ishat better proofdo

you want?

What did you do about it?

Hothing!

Yet this

nan, a member of Cuban Security, offered to work as a double

for you and he trled to tell you about Rolndo's plot.

Now he is bak in üuba..

As the result of his frustration

over your attitude, he was in terrible mental state when

i saw him.

let him return that way.

Had I been your people in the CIA, Ild not have

In his upset he could do something

rash which might blow the whole operation.

El liago Robreno 1s a delinquent. lie shot an American InCuba

Over

some private disagreemnet.

Fo shot a police officer.

This is apart from

revolutionaries.

This is why Fidel wanted Robreno out of

Cubro

Robreno is a dolinquent, a trouble maker and an

In the Cuban embassies in Europe, they

embarrassments they do not want trouble and they see bim

know this.

They do not b: lleve. that. 1s conter revolutionary. or plotting..

against the regime. He is useful.

"I sent El sago a ticket so he could trävel from Madrid to

saris to see me.

Inis 1s- because your people in Prris

seld that the

because. when

triable and turned back.

As I said bofure,

I wanted to

got confirmation of what El Loco had told me.. m Mago.

confirmed everything.

Now to mention the problems about your people, I must exlain

that these are Indidental to the real reason for seeing

Which is to give jou the message from Rolando. I did tyichat.

-Rolando said that ho did not trust Earlo WILLIAMSON and did

not want to seo him even though Willlamsgh wanted to meet

rolando when Rolando was in Europe last.

W12llamsonl for years, since he was in llahana and belonged

to the Vodado lennis Club and was diunk by three p.m. every

single day. Recently in Indrid he has set up a Cuban girl

In ari aprtment and he got her a job in a cuban refuppe

office.

She stole files ut the contents of 11108 from che

•Office, She 1n working for the rogime and W1ll1amgon foll

Iọт. her.

Her nioknme 18 lota.

This makes not a bit of

..dIfferonoo to us oxcopt that it is further reason that

pooglo risking their livos against Custro do not confido

1n Willlanson os Do not confuso lota with Boba, nothor

cuban girlfriond of Williamsones Boba 10 tho nieco of

dullo Lobos.

Sho 18 divorcud Srom a Sriund of mino. Shr

has boon going with Willinmmon and sho 10 nil right.

¿Willason anys that ho in tho dIA ohlor for spain and

1I5100.

Some ohlori

arethor one of your poople. whom my

whom i do not truet is drloo l'apEDINO.

Too at jury

do not trunt and

shep here in NY around 17th strinia so a man who

of my printinia somotime baok.

da o1t

8/900

---

## Page 5

14-00000

to make money and who will do anything for roney. You should

not trust him but jou do.

ie could locore better friends with CARMILLO if you sup lled

money with which to buy confiscated jowolry from charilLo.

So ou save sakuoixthe money, the amount TEPEDIiO

Ior, TEPEDITO said less for the

dewaary to CARRILLO, SEPSDINO

YAi. made a nice profit for hinsélf, and CARRILLO thoughtit

nll very funry.

CARRILLO told riends that he knows

that

ISTEDILO 1s working for you

CIA people and won't tell

TSPEDINO anything which CARRILLO does not want you to hear.

CA¡RILLO told all this to El Loco BLAiCO.

11s0 you should linow that TEPEDINO tells you that ho agroes

with you but when he Is with others who criticize you hetalls

them that he agrees with them.

"e has been actire as a

gupposed intermediary hetween you and Rolando CUSALAS in

TEPEDINO as an old friend.

annsation with this p1ou....uat me explain that this

this 1s because CUPELIS trusted

TEPEDINO 1s an older guy so the friendship 1s not. like that

between Rolando and myself.

We double dated, fought and

plotted together. This TEPEDINO. Is different

Ho is out

jut to make money..

He has been telling Rolandois frionds

over a period of time that he has CIA contacts and can get

anything needed fron the CIA.

e has not come through.

They want nothing else to do with him.

Another of your poople Is flohy BeRiAl who works for WILLIANSON D3

In ladrid.

BERNAL Was Cuban milliary attache in Japan when

he defectod, absconding with $18, 000, all of which he kept

for hinself and none of which he contributed to tho countor-

revolutionary cause.

This 1s the kind of person whom you

crust lid whom we do not.

About your Paris:people, Bob, Dick and Maureen who 15 DIok's

sooretary, there is no

complaint in particular.

does not now when she is being kidded.

Luis TRASENCOS and

BI LOCO BLANCO saW her in Paris.

Thay jokingly asked 1Ishe

for the Soviets for twice what you people aro.

She paled and swallowed tho story. Aftor

El Loco told me the story, I talko¿ to Maureen.

I confirmad

laureen 1s the go-between for Luis Irasencos and

The problam is that we san't he sure that wa can got

•the story t'rom /Rolando CUBiLAS to the CIA chicia bj üsing

•your faris people.

We don't want Luis PHASENCOS Or LUIs

¡FERNANDEZ to know moro than they nood. "This is juet good

asocurity.

They know enough about the general plan but.

¡thay nood not know detalls.

..L"

ii...

Uthore ho know quite a bit are ARTIME AND hiS aldo, QUINTEROS.:

it don't think it good that ANtIl ahould bo too involvodbut

¡OUBELAS nOOdod somo hOlp. OUblLAS mot both AN'IIII nnd

;TEPUDINO in buropo. Thay agrood on a low roinronoo pointo

on the north conat of Cuba se pos-iblo exflitiation pladon

srom which All'INE could plok up Oulling" pooplo 1I nomoting

o0в Wrong

ubwas took brok to oubn an hia bag.

---

## Page 6

I do not now whether it was a jadio or not but you peoplo

ought to see

to 1t that CioLAS does have a radio so he can

communicate with you.

A I1ttlo about myself: 1 have sone money. My family managed

to get quite a bit out of Cuba.

we are trying to get the

rest of the family, my grandrother and my uncle out.

Thhey

live at 15th and Lines

in Vedado,

Habana.

Ly grandmothar 1s

Juana IRIVARKER! and my uncle 1s Pedro HERNANDEZ.

They are

supposed to have gotten visas for Spain ind to be getting

oxit permits but we have been bearing this for some time.

I used my own money to buy passage for el lago batween

Hadrid and

Jaris and to pay my own expenses.

El liago does not work but his girl, Sonia by whom he has a

shild, 1s working as a dancer

in 'Spain so he dees prettywell

chere on her earnings.. His wife and two children are In

dolam1 noW.. His father, a fine guy and good newsman, 18

In "ow York someplace."

I. bave

to do something,

something let me word to on cur how wont

If you wantme

let me know.

I'll got in touch with the FBI here, Frank O'BRIEN, and be

will lot you know so you can moet:me. I havo told all of

this. only to INs, the FBI and you. -I an not going to say

lanything to anyone 0189...

ACTION:

I shall discuss with WILLIARSON] 03

Frank O'Brion will notify us if he gets further word.

If you want to test this by sending (via El linAgo

"trying to make Cubn free but that we want him to

someone responsible with full details befrore

-We make committmants, you can send me a cable while

Luidodge: I am over in ladrid.

Lijijin

--all of this soem a ball of was. the f'oroguing

account speaks for itself.

11.80

sincere and will act, meybe they are just

talking, maybe this 1s a provocation.:

AHHUTT!!

to find out all that al lago knows, 1t probably

VE2272.

will bo nocossary for a staffer to spond time with

this whon I wns there last.

airla StatiOn waa not disposed jo do

To Going

10N

179!

';!

:' ""?

trif

1/200

---

