""104-10183-10054) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT acta 1992 J
= w CHECanaad a

ETURN TS GA
B: ae around Use Gniy

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD \ .
SUBJECT: AMWHIP/1 Meeting, New York City, 23 October 1962

1. Meeting Time/Place. Subject was contacted by letter (see
file) requesting a meeting. He answered in the affirmative
by letter to the assigned accommodation address. The under-
signed subsequently went to New York on 23 October, contacted
Subject by telephone at his office, and apranged for a meeting
at 1330 at.The Forum restaurant, on 48th between Sth and 6th
Avenues. The contact took Place without difficulty, After
lunch, Subject and the undersigned went to the former's office
: in order to verify some information related by Subject at lunch.
i The undersigned left Subject's office (see file) at 1610 and

= returned by air-directly to Washington. :

2. Purpose of Meeting. To maintain contact with Subject, pay
him the sum o: . to cover the remainder of expenses incurred
by Subject in the AMLASH recruitment last summer in Furope, and
to determine additional information as described below in this

report.

3. Travel and Financial Arrangements.
ete and Financial Arrangements.

A. Travel. Subject stated that he was willing to meet with
the undersigned or another representative in New York, Washington
or any other city...whichever would prove most convenient for us,
He stated that business was a little slow just now, and as a result,
did not mind any reasonable travel to effect meetings. We thanked
him for this consideration, and stated that perhaps in the future,
this might prcve most helpful to us.

B. Finances. Subject was paid the sum of $400.00, which be
accepted in Tiew of some $409.00 as stated above. A receipt was
obtained. This amount represents $299.20 for hotel bills and inci-
dental expenses in Paris for Subject and AMWHIP/1, and the balance
for a plane ticket for AMLASH Prague-Paris and return,

4. Contact Arrangementa. Subject was instructed to continue ,
using’ the accommodation address he has been Provided (see Subj's
file) in the event he wishes to communicate with the undersigned or
his office, He has been informed that it may not be possible for
the undersixned to be in contact with him for several months, but
that he would be contacted by another meaber of my office. This
person would continue to write to Subject Signing the letters "DNL
Thompson", and will identify himself ia the event of any telephone
calls ax a “friend of 8111 Thompson's", Arrangements for meetings
can be made by lettor, telephone, or a combination thereof,



Personal Meetings, Subject is willing to meet anyplace.
or time ( ithTs reasem) with the undersigned or a representa-.-
tive from this office.. The case officer should introduce
himself as a "friend of Bill Thompson's" and be prepared to
Produce his half of the physical bona fide (attached herewith)
upon request from Subject. The bona fide is one-half of a
yellow typewriter delivery ticket, upon which have been drawn
two approximately parallel lines made in Subject's presence.

It is noted that Subject probably will not ask for this, judging
from past experience with him. Please, also note that Subject
does know the undersigned by his true name, so that after initial
use of the name "Bill ‘Thomipson” as the recognition phrase, use

the true name of the undersigned in discussions. .

In order to aid the case officer in spotting him (although
pictures of Subject are available in his file) Subject has been
instructed to make the meeting carrying a copy of TIME magazine
folded in half with the cover outward.

5. Items of Interest. eco Ob

A. _AMLASH/1's PAA Girl Friend. AMWHIP was not able to give
us the full name o: ie French-born, Miami-based Pan-American
stewardess who is, according to Subject, a very good friend of
AMLASH, and the one whom AMILASH was trying to get to come over to
Paris last August. Subject did know, however, that her first
name was Loretta,t and promised to call Miami to determine her
family name. is, he will mail to us at the accommodation address,
‘The party in Miami that Subject will contact for this purpose is
Sylvia Vilarello, of 3502 SW \Sth St. Miami: The relationship of
Subject with this girl wSylvia) is not clear to us, but ho made it
obvious that discretion would “be appreciated in the matter.

B, Alternate AMLASH/1 Commo Channel. We advised Subject,
in answer to his question, that we had heard from AKLASH, but that
his reply had oot been very satisfactory and more imporcant, he

had not provided an address at which he was ta receive mail from
iw “Jaime” Upon hearing this, Subject volunteered
that he Had learned fda’ several sources that AMLASH had visited
them on four occasions asking if they had any word from Subject “OW
)

These were Subject's cousin,|
“Fomento 608 Palatino Cerro = a tO
ee or 605 Subj forgets which) Katrada Palma Ob
entre Mayia Rodriguez y Sola Stos Suarez")] He anked the former
three times, the latter, once. Subject sWya he trusts both acn
explicitly, and has used them before to get letters handc ,
to AMLASH. The “courter" from the States in this case ia
an old friend of Subject'n and tiome-t tne caployee of the ¢Y |0
aTian Kabaxuy in Havana) kets the leters in Miami ofther /
om Aimself or frofanotnér trusted friend of subject, Ob
Ctelephonos TU 53-3324 and TU 7-807) the first being
ie Office, the nvcond, hin hone)

06

GAR


X

w

-3-

Considering the need now to maintain contact with “assets”
in Cuba, we asked Subject to write a letter immediately to
AMLASH/1 and including in it the fact ‘that his girl friend in
Madrid wants to write to him but does not have his address and
to please provide it as soon as Possible. By this message,
AMLASH should send an accommodation address to his Madrid drop
qi4okly, that is, if he intends to keep in touch with us. Judging
by the above actions of AMLASH, we are inclined to give him
the benefit of the doubt, and feels that Perhaps he did actually
forget to provide a return. address in his SW letter to Madrid,

In any case this will give us an opportunity t 7
inclinations. It is noted that the "coirier", th
was supposed to come to Miami on the 20th ot rT, bu not

+. The next time he could be expected was, according to

s : shone the end of this month. Travel restrictions imposed
: the -Crista: “defeat this plan. It is noted that ob
usually cables before he comes to Miami.

Subject stated that he_had ;
ugus @ possibility that one ia
recruitable, He stated that he Personally 10% e

aS & person, but felt that he would be a good action asset.
‘o have on our side. He bad no BI on jother than the fact
that he was, or is, a captain in the Army and is a lawyer: by

0S cc. _omoratadnar Lead.

believed was at one time involved in a bar-room brawl with

x &% training. His father is a Journalist, Subject stated that he

J an amert citizen, whom he shot to deat ct stated that
.} AMLASH/1 also did not personally caro for v6

Subject said he was in
on business, and also

. a Echevarria. He said he
told them the story he was told to tell, {.c., that he had seen
AMLASH/1 for some days in Europe, but had not succeeded in convinc-
ing AMLASH to leave Cuba. fio said that ho told them that AMLASH
felt that he was uncertain about a future away from Cuba and that,
although he didn't necessarily approve of the way the regime was
handling things in Cuba, he felt that ho had best remain there, and
attempt to help Cuba to a better future io his own way and not to
fight, per ee, egainst the rogi but rather try to live with it.
Subject. was told about the a.
“.. bis intimate friend had made a very indincrety phone call to
Mavana...". Subject said he wan not sure whether LASH meant by thin
Lucia ¥chovarria or Sylvia VILARELIO. te said he would look into
thin and attempt to find out who {tt wan and what wan said.

D.

EK.) Subject Volunteers Serviceu. Subject offered to return to
Havana for us TY need te, Uf wo could but guaranteo hin safe exit,
Wo thanked him and said that, although wo felt he could do the moat
kood out of Cuba Just now, wo would koop the offer tn mind. le

woomed pleased by thin, i

ioisR


~

“4.

F. Roberto ECHEVARRIA, Commercial Secretary, Ottaw:. Subject
said he had-mc? E. only once and that was in Cangda during his trip
there last summer just before he went to lsinki and Paris for the
AMLASH operation. He said he didn't know where £. s just now,
but thought he was jot in Canada. We asked him to discreetly ask ~
his business partner, who was making a trip to northern New York
State and/or Canada this weekend, to make a phone call to the \
Commercial Mission in Ottawa, and to inquire for £., and/or when
he would be back, etc., if in fact he was not there. He can use
Subject's name or an alleged business matter as the pretext for
calling. He will advise us on the outcome.

G. Pending Trip to Colombia, Subject stated that he planned .
‘po make a trip in the near future to Columbia to buy some emeralds.
He will arrange the-trip in order to avoid being away from home
on 7 November, the anniversary of his brother's death, and which
day he understandably wishes to be with his mother and father., The

undersigned is not absolutely sure of this date, but if it is not
correct, it is not far off. A check of our files might clarify this

point,

H. Passports for Sale. Subject said he had recently bought
two Cuban passports In Miami for two friends in Switzerland, whose
passports had run out of pages. Subject 1s concerned over this
market in passports and stressed the point to us. He said he paid
$50.00 apiece for them. The wholesale price 1s $25.00, Subject
informed us, He said he would be glad to get some for us if we
desired. We said we would acvise him. He did not know whether
he could get any diplomatic passports or not, but he would discreetly
check on this. Passports are availed used or blank. He thinka the
blanks are the real McCoy and not poor imitations. :

6. SECURITY Considerations, There were no incidents of a security

nature to report, The undersigned had coffee in Subject's offices
while the latter made a call to Miami re{BORDO!s expected visit to ()4

Miami, We chatted briefly with Subject's fatter and one of the
partners. No questions were asked of the undersigned whatsoever,
and the conversation was polite only.

WER
