1 '104-10336-10002

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

Xf

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor + Washington, DC 20530..
(202) 724-0088 - Fax: (202) 724-0457

1A HAS NO OBJECTION TO
October 27,1996 cl CATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS

‘Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C.02505

Re: Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for
Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:
Iam writing to follow-up on our letter of October 7, 1996, regarding the status of

Assassination Records Review Board requests for information and records from the
CIA.

Formal Requests:
CIA-1
Review Board staff review continues. No CIA action needed at this time.
CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)

CIA has agreed to make records available (or to have a response ) by
November 1, 1996.

CIA-7 (Histories)

Counterintelligence. CIA has made material available and Review Board
staff examination is ongoing.

Mexico City. The Review Board awaits CIA’s compilation of the portion
of the Mexico Station history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey.

Boaro Memeens: John A. Tunheim. Chair + Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall + William L Joyce - Anna K Nelson
Exicur Dinecron: David G Mawel

// Wak co

a9


13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 2
Other Histories. No response has been received to our agreement that
CIA identify within two weeks the histories that can be made available
and those that should be subject to further discussions. :
CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)

CIA had promised to provide a report to the Review Board within two
weeks. Nothing has been made available:

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)
We have received no materials responsive to this request. Additionally,
no response has be received from CIA regarding the list of publications
that are identified in an LBJ Library finding aid that the Review Board
staff provided. : :

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has not yet made available the records that it had agreed to provide
within two weeks. (wes Usweald on

CIA-11 (Duran’s original statement)

CIA has agreed to make some further attempts to locate Duran’s original ~
statement.

CIA-12 (MWAVE materials)

CIA has agreed to make materials available on a rolling basis.

Informal requests:

Spas Rankin. CIA has made the Spas Rankin file available to the Review Board.

Review Board staff research ater ae When research is complete, staff wil

discuss issues with ~ art leos Come elleckinr polled [ues
KORE Vet} dovi ens .

IN 23738. CIA is searching for cable number IN 23738 (7 July 1962). ~ copy SOn

Marilyn Murrett. CIA has made the Marilyn Murrett file available to the Review -
Board. Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff


13-00000

. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 3

will discuss issues with CIA.

HTLINGUAL. It is the Review Board staff’s understanding that CIA continues
its search for HTLINGUAL records and will provide an oral briefing on the
subject. It is also our understanding that some HTLINGUAL records have been
located, but that they have not yet been made available to the Review Board.

Recent and additional informal requests that we have discussed with you:

Operational Reports for Cuban Exile Groups. The Review Board staff has been
unable to locate in the collection monthly operational reports for the DRE, CRC,
or MRR for the period between March 1963 and March 1964. Please advise us
whether these records exist and when-we may review them.

Moscow. CIA has-been asked to search for additional information regarding
Mosco as discussed with Michelle Combs on October 24, 1996.

Tape. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding a tape
as discussed with Irene Marr on October 24, 1996.

Please let me know of any inaccuracies in this letter or any suggestions that you have.
Thank you for your help and cooperation.

and Associate Director for Research


13-00000

Peis

we

Lk-o3
8-27-96

Notes on ARRB Requests cpis (fr Gunn)

HTLINGUAL: per DO/OGC/Pereira, primary collection was
destroyed in response to court order; however, documents
may/do? exist in other files plus records on numerous FOIA /
and Privacy requests and litigation.

Pereira recommended a briefing on HTLINGUAL for Gunn

Per Ellie, two DO boxes of HTLINGUAL Records at Center;
individual who would be best briefer on leave -- will
follow-up with next week.

‘oudle,/(?), OGC, search is under way to locate OGC
‘(Irene Johnson} has action) -- will contact
me when located; agreed that briefing for Gunn was
appropriate once we had details of disposition of material.

Gunn - will be over Thr. a.m. to review responses to old
requests and discuss HTLINGUAL and other new requests

Vraskna “/ Cnn €J24/9&
& wi WN wor os CIn-\C as Crowne. \

: wee Y
cequesk Bend, lan chi cm Wy Lew _

4 0608 Clee


CIA-15 (HTLINGUAL)
Dear John:

The Assassination Records Review Board requests access to all files, documents, and
records related to the project code-named HTLINGUAL..To the extent that
HTLINGUAL may be known by any other name or cryptonym, records related to that -
other name or cryptonym are included within the request.

Without limitation, this request should be understood to include any operational
reports, lists of names, criteria, protocols, or other documents that explain the purpose,

‘activities, accomplishments, and rationale for HTLINGUAL.

This request should be interpreted in the broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that
you may be-uncertain as to whether a record may be included within the scope of our
request, you should consult with us to determine whether we seek to include it. To the
extent that some or all of this request may be unnecessarily burdensome or present
difficulties that we may not have foreseen, please consult with us so that we may

consider revising the request accordingly.
Sincerely,
Gunn vlogs \
x la we ro on ry ec ace

x trlenaglad taasordg| ww Cover uN Br opmetinn
x Tarhernabnt Rescue. ee



13-00000

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
SENATE RESOLUTION 21

HEARINGS

COMMITTEE TO STUDY
(ENTAL OPERATIONS WITH -
‘0 Fagen ACTIVITIES.

UNITED STATES SENATE
NINETY-FOURTH CONGRESS
: BIRST SESSION

VOLUME 4

MAIL OPENING
OCTOBER %1, 22, AND 24, 1975

as

for the use of the Select Committee To Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities ‘i

Us. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON + 1976

Farae by tha Suprotendene of Doren, 28, Government Priming Ofice
‘Washington, D.C. 20402- Price $2.40



13-00000

CONTENTS
HEARING DaYs
y, October 21, 1975... -

INTAL OPERATIONS “day, October’ 23, 1975
rrvitles ri. ‘Oetober 24, 197

LIST OF WITNESSES

WB, Ja, Tennessee ~Tuespar, Octonen 31, 1973
Ea Astana act, Gordon, former Inspector General, Central Intelligence Agency,

sceompanied by Stanley Gaines, counsel
bernsthy, Thomas, former staff ‘member, Inspector General’s xtuff,
‘Central Intelligence Agency, necompanied by Mitehell lt Rogovin, ‘counsel.
on, John, former staf memb pector utad,
cy.

ars)
UCER, Prnosslen

‘J, former Director of Security, Centtal Intelligence
ge, ecofnpatied by John Debelias, eountel

Wronespay, Ocromrr 22, 1975
Edvard J., former Postmaster General, acenmpanied by Jomes F.

Br., counsel for J. paserd Day.
former Chief Inspector, Postal Inspection Service.
ium, former Chief Inspector, Postal ection Servic

chard, Ambaseador to (ran und former Director, Central Intel-

Famax, Ocrosex 24, 1975
John, former Attorney General, sccompanied by William G.

Aasistant
au of Investigution.
eoaance EXHIBITS!

god by the committer, im consultation with the Centr
Seaoral Barca of Toventigacion, ‘certain aatertale have |

carmente, conte of which were aly clawstf at
©, of the tataraal operating’ proc fF ebe tecnetee Tovolves, ‘ina protect
8 wources hods, Burtuer deletions were made ering
Bevacy of cottalo Indiviutele aud groupa: These deledoen do nat chance the material

tof theae exhibits i
mw



Ww

S—Auguat 30, 1971 memorend: wo
oe re HTLINGUAL—Corres

Chicf,
. 2 May I

Cont
No, 10—Setsnry for 1961 memorandum trom Richard Helms to a
Ch Sra eects iy

itarint
No. Breanna from June 19%

No. 12—March 20, 1970)

No. 13—February 1, 1962 memori
‘telligence to Director, eee roject BLING SE eee

No. ae oe, | 1970 memorandum for the
ion with Attorney General. Mitchell on See ee

No. aa aa
No. 16_Barg i

uartere re
Noe are 975 SAO mecncrandans 56-75
No, 18— October, 1864 memorandum from 'D. B, Maare to
No. 19K 1968 memorand
Fotcn te Long Garam.
No. ee cee

i3 memorandum fro1
oa, Belmont Gale, Ranen, Sulliven, De

be a—fane, 2a das SOG ean Fronctece, Gali,
No, 22—Bigrch 20, 1061 memorandum fe from D. B Mocke to 4. ff
re Projeet Hunter, Ea
No 23—August 24, 1966 from ae rae
24—May 25, 1965 Airtel from SAC,

uarters.

No, 27—May 1, 1964 memor
_ Helme 1 ONT -:

APPENDIX
October 24, 1975 letter from J. Edward Day to the Senate Select Com-



13-00000



Sex CIA FR-0S

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor + Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

December 18, 1997

ae CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
: ereira Perl

a RELEASE IN FULL

Historical Review Group 206)

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board’s Requests for
dditional ati Records

Dear John:

1am writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious
concern about the status of CIA’s responses to the Review Board's requests for
additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to
several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of
requests have not been answered — including some that were made more than two
years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be __
forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now
extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct
a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the
highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request
that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests
be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two ro parts: first, a listing of the formal
requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for
information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the’
following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

- As identified more fully below, the issues are: CIA-1 Organizational Material,-
CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CLA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03
HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CLA-IR-07 Claude
Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City, CLA-IR-21 DRE
Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 “A” Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

Boaao Memeens: John R. Tunheim, Chair * Henry F. Graff « Kermit !. Hall - William L. Joyce + Anna K. Nelson

|
|


13-00000

Mr. John Pereira
December 18, 1997
Page 6

Informal Requests

Each of the following informal requests was previously made to CIA. For future
reference, they will be referred to by the “Informal Request” (IR) number provided
” below.

CIA-IR-01 Personnel Assigned to Post from 1959-64 (see RIF 104-10065-10199).
This request is complete.

CIA-IR-02 Location of Cable Identified in JFK 1993.07.20.10.18:29:650630.
This request is complete.

*“CIAIR-(3 Full Computer Search for List of Documents in HTLINGUAL File.

‘CIA agreed to undertake a computer run for all HTLINGUAL documents in
April 1997. To date, no response has been received by ARRB. All computer
searches for these documents should be documented in a formal letter for the
record.

“*CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton’s Files.

The Review Board seeks to ensure that it has taken all reasonable steps to
account for any files that James Jesus Angleton possessed or controlled that
related to the assassination and to Lee Harvey Oswald. Because of the perceived
controversy surrounding the disposition of Angleton’s files, the Review Board
believes it prudent to obtain a clear understanding of the types of files that he
maintained and their ultimate disposition. (The Review Boatd does not seek to
explore any subjects in Angleton’s files beyond those that may have pertained to
the assassination.) To date, CIA has made available certain documents provided
by the CIC and the case files for Mangold v. CIA. The Review Board requests any

_ additional information in the possession of CIA that would explain the
disposition of Angleton’s files.

In addition, the ARRB staff’s review of the Mangold v. CIA files designated
additional documents from those files as assassination records. These documents
are: Tab D, documents Nos. 95, 109-116, 120, and 121; and from the Denied


13-00000 -

Working Note - HRG Internal Use Only

H1LinGe AL,
—

Michelle,

Attached is a partial DO response to the HTLINGUAL (CIA IR
3) request. The DO continues to search files that have
HTLINGUAL references and for information on destruction of
DO HTLINGUAL records. The destruction of HTLINGUAL Files is
also addressed by the Office of Security in Request CIA #16.

Barry


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL 2a Thos OF

20 January 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: (U) Chief, JFK Declassification
Project/HRP/OIM/DA
FROM: (U) Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.

Chief, External Support Group/IMS/DO
Central Intelligence Agency

SUBJECT: (U) DO Response to Informal Request CIA IR #03

REFERENCE: (U) ARRB’s Memorandum dated 18 December 1997,
RE: Status of CIA Responses to
Assassination Records Review Board’s
- Requests for Additional Information and
Records

(U) This memorandum is submitted in response to informal request
number 03 (CIA IR #03) from the Assassination Records Review Board
(ARRB) «

**CIA-IR-03 Full Computer Search for List of Documents in HTLINGUAL File

(C) First, as an outcome of the Pike and Church Committees, all
HTLINGUAL files were destroyed. Copies that may have been made and put
into individual’s files surface as the files are reviewed. The DO ran a
search on the term “HTLINGUAL.” Some records were -identified as
destroyed. Some were not so marked but are not locatable under the job
number identified; however, given that there is no requirement to record
destroyed records under the federal statutes for disposition programs
and given limited resources for noting files destroyed, this is not
uncommon. The HTLINGUAL search further identified files because of
Freedom of Information Act queries; however, these were not HTLINGUAL
files per se, but files which contained the FOIA requester queries for
HTLINGUAL information. ay

a

{Marj K,

\—“"predrick €. Wickham, Jr.

CL BY: {2103140 /
CL REASON 1.5" (c)
DECL ON: X1

DRV From: COL 19-87

CONFIDENTIAL



13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

On 8 April 1994, the complete set of SRPOINTER and
HTLINGUAL security support files and. indexes held by the
Office of Security were destroyed in accordance with the
guidelines set forth in the approved Records. Control
Schedules 31-76 and 31-83 and by the Office of General
Counsel. - :

geo CSA-l|le "



13-00000

8-27-96

Notes on ARRB Requests CIA-15 (fr Gunn)

HTLINGUAL: per DO/OGC/Pereira, primary collection was
destroyed in response to court order; however, documents
may/do? exist in other files plus records on numerous FOIA /
and Privacy requests and litigation.

Pereira recommended. .a--briefing»on~HTLINGUAL for~Gunn _
a oeeniToUtut #bad it TSEERTEToDieraran Tm
Per Ellie, two DO boxes of HTLINGUAL Records at Center;

individual who would be best briefer on leave -- will is

follow-up with next week.

Per [Bob Coudle} (? ; search is under way to locate OGC
file on HTLINGUAL (Irene Johnson)has action) -- will contact
me when located; agreed that briefing for Gunn was

appropriate once we had details of disposition of material.

Gunn - will be over Thr. a.m. to review responses to old
requests and discuss HTLINGUAL and other new requests

arbre of Gunn — ¢/24/96
& will wot oo CIA “Ne as (|
Cequesk gon din
A One CA

4

See ad Vile. m wy lox

Coo a


13-00000

Gun ilove

ciphg cemuncuay

The Assassination Records Review Board requests access to all files, documents, and
records related to the project code-named HTLINGUAL_ To the extent that
HTLINGUAL may be known by any other name or cryptonym, records related to that
other name or cryptonym are included within the request.

Dear John:

Without limitation, this request should be understood to include any operational
reports, lists of names, criteria, protocols, or other documents that explain the purpose,
activities, accomplishments, and rationale for HTLINGUAL.

This request should be interpreted in the broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that
you may be-uncertain as to whether a record may be included within the scope of our
request, you should consult with us to determine whether we seek to include it. To the
extent that some or all of this request may be unnecessarily burdensome or present
difficulties that we may not have foreseen, please consult with us so that we may
consider revising the request accordingly.

le
x kee” nN bee ee

Gi
* inlercayledl thus ors . :
eet

Sincerely,

Y \ .
mn Couar Cap qian



13-00000

mur eo 90 bersurie

Facsimile Cover Sheet

To: Barry Harrelson
Company: HRG

Phone: (30292 !

Fax: 70342

From: |Linda C. Cipriani}
Company: OGC/LD-
Phone: 76124
Fax: (703-874-3124)

eae os

i Date: 09/05/96
Pages including this
cover page: 7

Comments: All OGC has is the following destruction authorization. | am told that {f you

need the actual destruction record, you will need to qo to the DO.


13-00000

T-DESTAUCTION AUINOMEATIONNO.¢

TO «Chisel, information Rezource: Manogemenl Dividen, O15 Thm. (OFFICE DICTATION OF OfIGRATON

THRU: Component Recor ds uaugen
Directorate Records Manaves DNO/TMS/MPG/ TRMB

Office of General Counsel ao

14 December 1989
THE ACCORDS IOLNTINICO BLLOW ARE GCIIEDULLD FOR tmIAGOIATE DESTRUCTION; HOWEVER, THEY MAY BE SUBJECT TO ACIUAL Of IMPENDING LEGAL O8
INVESTIGATIVE REQUIREMENTS, AUTHORIZATION IS REQUESIEG ETHER TO KEVAIN Tri KECUKDD UK TQ DESTKUT INEM A> SUMEDULLD. HHL KECOKD AKE

BEING HELD PENDING RECEIPT OF AUTHORITATION. IF FURTHER RETENTION IS, BFOUIRED, REVISED SISPOSITION INSTRUCTIONS MIIST RE POCIVINED TO.
INFOPIAATION RESOURCES MANAGEMENT DIVISION.

IDENTIFICATION OF RECORDS

TSeREDIRE RO: FRR TT TTT
See
DDO/INS/0SG 40-76 lk 201002 1954 - wor] ait 1

6.580.106 DETAKEO DELERD TION A110 ULINNG GF 1 OnDE A1D/OF AWTAGH COTY OF FON in, e004. 4004, MARKED TOINDICATE WHI RECORDS ARE QUESTIONABLE,
Eirvan gata FOF CELERON Inal ALORS axe OUESTONAEC

PROJECT HTLINGUAL

Projcct HTLINGUAL was responsible for copying letters intercepted in the
U.S, Mail going to and from Lhe USSR.

The HYLINGUAL Project was declared uniawfui by the Rocketoller Commissio
and the Church Committcc. In accordance with their findings and with the
authorization of the Archivist of the Uniced Stutes and the Senate Conmirte

On Intelligence, the HILINGUAL records are to be destroyed as soon as per
mitted by law.

Attached for reference (attachment 2) is the authorization to destroy
thease rocords by tho National Archivist (17 March 1978) with the concurrence

of the Senate Sclect Committee on Intelligence (G April 1976) -

Conn RATE PACE
Lina pacha, ain GTN]

‘Alvin Weighe™ se tp “OSG 2-596)
ag aa ei SHER wait
tetera kee 7 avo amo 2-6033| aesgihes
ical TE DT RATE RECERTS Ma BACON OFT TEBE | OAT
— E

j oo
Le George W nde egnn/ THO 2-7295 "Year's y

AUTHORIZATION TO RETAIN OR DESTROY RECORDS

| wetansen [12 1are mame ANU IGHATUNE Ur GENERAL CUUNSEI REPRESENTATIVE TRIENSIOW

Wetanevantinn>

7 DESTROY At 4

[5 TiEB rad AaB ONT ORE OF GaER TAPER

SHARE OTON OT
APPROVED

Ta PROVIDE JUSTPCATION FOR CONTINUE V RETENTION. AISO PFOVIE PEOPOSEO NEW OISPOMIIOW IVSIRUCTIONS,
oABIEATE UnbED SEETIOM @ AFOVE WtCH RECORDS ABE TO OK RETAINED, HOKE NOT MIOICATED FOR RETENTION AME AUTHORIZED FO IMMEDIATE DESIRUCTION.

TD connnuro on srraeare pace



HTLINGUAL INVER! GRY

Single xerox copy of opened letter (approximately 215,820).

348 Cu. Ft

Single microfilm copy of indexed postal covers (y22 tilm
cassettes).

B.> Cu. Ft.

Slagle microfilm copy of indexed and unindexed postal covers ~
job number 77-333 (1,235 - 16mm reels; 108 - 35um Film carte
ridges: and 12 envelopes of film strips).

13

cu. Ft.

Subjecl files maintain-d and used by the HILINGUAL analysts on
Individuals and organizations (job number 80-417),

a5 Cu. Ft,

HILINGUAL index consisting of six (6) reels of magnetic tape
and 37 ~ Toman fim cassettes

7 - ?

Cu. Ft

Administrative, backgound and reference files concerning the
HILINGUAL Project.

1.8 Cu. Ft.

Miscellaneous HTLINGUAL material - ten (10) packs undeveloped
microfilm; five €5) - 16mm microfilm cassattes of Cuban,
Mexican and Customs items; and onc (1) reel of magnetic tape
containing an index to IITLINGUAL memos). *

-5 Cu. Ft.

TOTAL: 398-5 Cu. Ft.


13-00000

J2$1 FON HECONOL SPOsITION AUTHORITY
i (Sou faztewetions an reverse)

nol 263 77 18 /

w Gi SHUVICES ROMINISTAATION,
MATIONAL ARCHIVES aNA RECNAOS SFRYIGE, WASHINELON, OC 20603
fod ACENCE GW ESTABLISHMENT
Cencral Tutelligence Agency oe
B 2 sason Gusomaon
Operations Directorate
fi awa gubwigion

Gate REFS Aye TT

MOTIRCATON TO AGENCY

‘eacttat win Re wait 46 USC HD te Sige
chet srcabacets. W apy ted evceat 1 det Bt oy
Si Gines “Cigale hese: mean” een Te

SMALE OF SEASON WiTH WHOM TO CONFER 5 TEU. ex¥

v3. at 7-18

tel
estat of eke Ur

George rates” “| 352-7776
fl & ctaeccare oF actwcy nesmestuta
Vnereby ceriily that 1 am authorized gy Fe fur this agency in bic el pertaining to the disposal of the agen’ 's 1ecords;
thal the tccords proposed 101 ‘axsposal ‘nrtfis Request of _1___ pagels) ase not now needed for the business of
this agency or will not he needed after the cetention periods specitied.

{A Request for immediate disposal,

CJ B Request tor disposal ager 3 & specilied period of time or ireauestl tor Permanent
relention,

ed
pec) neenesenurawt, ee
LK. Kea} 8 if Associate. Records Managemeat Officer

$. OESORIPTION OF ITCet AY
(in tiated Out nt Retrion PENDS! “On NO.

ae The £ile contains copies of 215,870 Jecters and a
pholugraphs of 2,705,726 covers (cnvelopec) of unopened >
ietters which were intercepted during mailing to and from

« | addresses in the U.S.S.R. and related indexes. The undies)
were Intelligence targets during the period of 1954 to 197

o Many of the originators and recipients « of the mil tox,

from the targer. addresses were United States citizens.”

ded in ‘this ‘yequeat for disposai are
copies of ters and photographs of covers which arc at
the present tine the objects of Freedom of Informatian Act}
roquests and Privacy Act. Tequests, or thase that are
involved in litigatio. Similarly files which doaooent
the initiation, inplementarion, and termination of this
majl intercept project (these that may have historical
value) will be retained in the CIA and be maintained in
accordance with its approved records contrul schedule.
Additionally, no dispesal will ocam prior to the review
and concurrence of the Senate Selnct Committee on Intel-
Ligence.

Continucd maintenance of the files cavered by this
Aispusa) rexnesct conflicts with the provisions of the
y Act, S U.S.C. $523 (#)(1) and (7) as well as
Section 5 (b) (4) of Excautive Order +1190S.

ao,
ACTION tangy

a


13-00000

GescHmnom OF HEM
- Petacton Pesvoes)

ne

SAMPLE OK
300 NO

ACO tance |

Attached for your review and approval is a Standard
Form 115 requesting authority from the Archivist of the
United States for the inmediate disposal of the Mail
Intercept File.

FYI: A copy of the SF-115 will be sent.to the
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.

APPROVALS.

“WilTia Wells
Deputy Director for Operations

CONCURRENCES: —_—s,

oer

« No Agency records are to be destroyed without the
concurrence of the Senate Select Committee. This iz a
separate process from obtaining NARS approval. Sub-
ion of these forms to NARS is fully consistent widh
the Agency's obligation to the SSCL.

This page «iLL nor be made available to the National

Archives and Records Service or the Senste Select

Comai tree an Yue Vigence



13-00000

APPRAISAL, REPORT OM Ols-OSITION OF RECORDS

at To rssres SEETION 1 APT WOVEN FOR
Went TOR pattie GaehOsM NITTIOUTTY IS NCOMSOD, te (ot? BIEOEEl
VALUL OWEN OSES OF HETSLOIUAL OM GTR WE SEARLE. Fu HIOLAL BOLUM ATION. ute 1
TO MANAG) ERA AP ETT (Ore Gy EL FEOERAL Goto.

trang it un,
OMENS CO ANOLVEBIIES thet

ITEM 1.

UiNTeN, account ina OFFICE COVCURRENCE
Ja 3EC Comdial s OR ATTAOICO LETTER.

SECTION PPROVCO TOR PCRMAULHT RCTE:

TENCE) CUAT 16 TARE) APROVED TON PERANCAT REYEHYLON, FOR tne REASONS INDICATED Iw SCOTCH vi Thee ACCKCY wice
OFFEA THESE RECORDS To Tul WATIONAL ARCHIVES 4NO RECORDS ECAVICE FS SPECIFIED th RAT SCHEDULE. 5

[SECTION IM APPROYCO FOR OISPOSAL ALTER CONVERSION TO HICROTORK
(TONG) TOR Weicer DISPOSAL AUTHORITY £3 REQIITCD. 15 (ARE) OV SFOSKDLE GECAIST THE RETAINED HAICROFORW 13 AW KOTGUAIE
<UASTT TUTE FOU TKE ORIGINAL RECORDS. THE ACENCY CEMTIFIES COPLIAICE wiTH THE STANOAROS SCT FORTH Ine EOu2 i
WIth doa,

—_— i i
SECTION IV - WISROSAL NOT APPROVED :

FFCACS) frat 15 (ARE) NOT APPROVED FOR ONSPUSAL AK YMID HIME. IHF AGENCY WITH RASUSALT IMIS CIMZSED ETHSS meted

SUFFICE InEORQAFLON 4S AVAILADLC TO OCFCAMINC Thee VALUE OF IHESE RECORDS FOR AGENCY AAD ARCHIVAL FURTOSCS. I

NY) MESUEMITTEO WETEIIN SEX BOWTWS MERS WILL CONTACT THE ECENCY.

SFOUON v= WIIMDUAWE
TFGMS) THAT M&S IHAVED THEW WITHRDGEN AY THE BEQUEST OF THE RCENCY.

“SELTION G1 APPOGVAI /CONCURRENCES
RIRECTOD, PECOBOS O1SPOSIT ICN OIVIStGN
(Signed) THOMAS 17, WADLOW

SECTION Vit = APPRaISEWS KYCUMMENUATIU

COMMUNES:



13-00000

‘ Blnited Btates Benate

SELECY COMMITTEE On INTELLIGENCE
(reuse ta 5s meas ney we Comins)
WASHINGTON, O.C. 20510

ton CELE April 6, 1978

IN REPLY PLEASE
REFER TO Q#

Admiral Stansfield Turner
Director of Central Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D. <- 20505

Dear Admiral turner:

This Committee has no objection to.the implementation
of the records disposal. list (job #NC1-263-77-18) approved
by the Archivist on March 17, 1978.

° Sincerely,
“Baek

Birch ‘Bayh
Chairman



13-00000

\e 1.1998 a:58PM. A 0.1384 pg
va ae ;
be Cheasity as Appropeiste
SECURE FACSIMILE TRANSMITTAL FORM

ANT
oo

DATE: 1 September 1998

SENDING SECURE/FAX TELEPHONE NUMBER: 703-489-10544
RECEIVING SECURE/FAX TELEPHONE NUMBER: 703-613-3060

NOMBER OF PAGES (Incloding Transmittal Form and Coversheet, if applicable) 4
FROM: Fred Wickham i
(Name / Office / Extension )

SUBJECT: MFR, 6 Apr 90, Destruction of MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL Project Files
TO: (ADDRESSEE / ORGANIZATION / OFFICE / EXTENSION )

RECEIVING STATION USE ONLY.
Please receipt for material by entering time of receipt/signature and transmit back to sending station.

DATE / TIME: SIGNATURE:

men yp eceeecitee tence nna ecs casa cme ene nsec tasers sarmnemsereemeatacemins sasannen
Confidential CL REASON:

FORM 4383A (EF) Dect on


SEP. 1.1998 3:59PM a 7 No. 134 P.2

— CONFIDENTIAL

6 April 1990

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBSECT: Destruction of MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL Project Files
REFS: A. OGC-90~-50611 dated 19 Mar 90
B. Memo from MPG/IRMB dated 18 Dec 89

PARTICIPANTS:

IRMB
IRMB/IMS/IMO

et | asB
Stricker, DO/IRO
70!

SG

C/CFB

C/RRB
Acrion: :
OSG/RRB: a) Identify mstexrial for destruction =

1 £rom Records Center

c) Review the material for destruction

a) Initiate destruction action by keying one :
transaction per document

Respond to Reference A, OGC Memo

MPG/IPB: a) Identify independent electronic files in T6G
\b) Perform SOFA search to identify MHCHAOS and
HTLINGUAL files 7
¢) Initiate a SPIN search to identify any existing
S or HTLINGUAL information AFTER the initial
. Processing of material e
C/MPG: Document meeting and identify action points af
IMS/IMO: a) Initiate action to identify electronic holdings of
MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL information
b) Identify an@ monitor disposition of MHCHAOS and
HTLINGUAL digitsl information

MPG/PPB: Update procedures, notices, instructions, etc.

1. All information that established MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL
will be permanent retention. The material is stored in different
Places. It was agreed to run a SPIN search AFTER the material

CONFIDENTIAL


. GCONPEDRNTTAL

was destroyed at Records Center to ensure identification of ail
MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL materials. After the SPIN search is done,
any MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL material will be turned over to RRB for
follow up review. :

2. According to the IMS/IMO, five platter diskpacks on

/’MHCHAOS are stored in TSG, Room GBO704 OHB. C/MPG noted that we
neefi to research electronic holdings of TSG, both HTLINGUAL and
MHCHAOS.

Destruction

3. Upon review of material for destruction, DRD
transactions will be entered in the system for each document. It
was suggested that, the transactions be done individually which
would be less risky than a blanket deletion.

4. The XX¥ symbol for MHCHAOS was used for name trace
purposes. According to the IMS/IMO, 79 cubic feet of 201 files
are in this category. Official 201 files are also in the other
two MHCHAOS jobs that haye not been processed. Any XX¥ material
should have blank File Content Lists. If RRB identifies 201
files that are xXX¥ and all the documents are in ALLSTAR, RRB must
xeconstitute the file. °

S. The databa will be updated after the records, ore
destroyed and XxX¥ and xXxXZ should he deactivated. Procedures
should be updated.

Order of Destruction 7

HTLINGUAL material can be started on immediately.
HTLINGU: Production files are 1 1/2 cubic feet which will be
pulled first. The bulk of HTLINGUAL material -— 348 cubic feet —
can be destroyed immediately without review, The remaining 50°
are in five or six categories and needs to be reviewed, a.g..
single microfilm copies stored in conserva files. =

7. IRMB will turn over the MHCHAOS file inventory to
RRB. When material is ready to be searched, RRB will notify IPB
who will search SOFA to identify files.

8. Pursuant to Reference A OGC memorandum, the DO/IRO
should formally comply with OGC’s request to determine if there
are any outstanding FOIA or Privacy Act requests relating to
MHCHAOS or HTLINGUAL that should not be destroyed.



13-00000 cep. a.isn9  aieteM UN ee

7 é . :
24 June 1981

MEMORANDUM FOR: Nr. William J. Allard:
Associate General Counsel

FROM: ‘Louis J. Dubey

1 ‘DO7Information Review Officer
SUBJECT: Destruction of MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL Records

4

12. With regards to the MHCHAOS records, it is my under-
standing that a Protective Order was placed on all MHCHAOS files
in June 1976 due to their involvement in the Halkin vs. Helms
Litigation. You advised that Mark Lynch, the attorney representing
Plaintiff in the case had recently narrowed the class action
definition to include only those individuals cited in the case
as plaintiffs. It was your belief that the protecti order could 4
be amended to permit destruction of sll other ‘Sea fiies in the ot
MHCHAOS record system. Please undertake whatever action is re-
quired as’ soon as possible so that the DO may destroy records under
an amended protective order.

2. In further discussion, you advised that the DO could
procede with the destruction of its HTLINGUAL records. Attached
please find five copies of Form 141, ocech pertuining to a separate
phase of the HTLINGUAL file system. Please inctude your con-
«currence with the destruction of these files by signing in block 12
on all copies. 4

fae i eee ad te anne
(era - QD. :
Vbeats4s. uber, -

Attachment: a/s

ADMINISTRATIVE -.. INTERNAL US:
ONLY when separated from the

attachments
WARNING NOTICE - Intelligence DERIVATIVE cy ay @1820.

Sources and Methods Involved REVW ON Jun
. i DERIVED FROM D9c.13

CONFIDENTIAL


13-00000

fe 4

12 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Laura Denk
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT: CIA-IR-3, Full Computer Search for List of
Documents in HTLINGUAL File

1. This is in response to referent request.

2. Searches were made for information responsive to
the request and materials were provided for examination by
ARRB staff. From that examination, staff members selected a
number of documents to be included within the JFK
Collection. Those documents have now been included within
the JFK Collection and are being processed for release to
NARA.

3. This concludes the Agency's action on this request.
If you have any question, please advise.

Wy-\—
Jd. Barry Harrelsdn,


13-00000

MEMORANDUM

September 19, 1998

To: Laura Denk
Executive Director
cc: Bob Skwirot
CIA Team Leader

From: Michelle Combs wtatele lon bon

Associate Director for Research and Review
Subject: CIA-IR-03 HTLINGUAL Records

The Review Board's Informal Request for Additional Records and Information asked
the CIA to locate any extant records from the HTLINGUAL mail cover and mail
opening project. Most of the HTLINGUAL files held by the Directorate of Operations
were destroyed in 1990 at the order of the CIA’s Office’ of the General Counsel. A
memorandum for the record found in volume seven of Lee Harvey Oswald’s Office of
Security file states that the Office of Security destroyed its SRPOINTER/HTLINGUAL
files in April 1994 in accordance with guidelines set forth in the Record’s control
schedule and the Office of General Counsel.

The Review Board staff examined an index, provided by the CIA, to the remaining
HTLINGUAL records and marked folders for closer review. The Review Board staff
reviewed the HTLINGUAL project files for 1955-1990. These project files consist of
monthly statistical reports and administrative records. The more recent documents in
the files pertain to law suits, court orders, or destruction records. These files were not
designated as assassination records. The extant HTLINGUAL records for Lee Harvey
Oswald and several project “soft” or working files are included in the CIA sequestered
collection and have been processed as a part of that collection for inclusion in the JFK
Collection at the National Archives. Additional HTLINGUAL documents were located
in the archived files of the Deputy Director for Plans. Any documents relevant to the
assassination were designated assassination records and will be processed for inclusion
in the JFK Collection at the National Archives.

e:\combs \cia-ir03.wpd
File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4
