# 104-10102-10057

## Page 1

104-10102-10057

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

¡SECRET

20 Fes

Scarce:

Subject:

lores made bad.

Goodpespise

For John Leader,

IS Stasf

Background on Mexico Station Support Assets

(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies)

1. Can

ra coverage. From the tine the Mexico Station wes

o ered in

April 19479 (oy Bill Doyle) until arrival of Win Scott as COS in 1955, Charles

Anderson III (still in LA/HQ) had developed a support apparatus to

excloit leads from the Soviet Encassy. This umbrella type project (LIFEAT)

consisted

of nulti line

phone taps,

three photo sites, a mobile surveillance

team and

a nail intercept operation.

a. Fhone taps vere placed by le emoloyee

o leg hardled by David WILSTED (pseudo):

the

telephore. comcady,

The number of lines

tapped was limted

by availability of a listening post nearby

(since the taps were not made in the nain central) and English/

Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Gzech, ete) transcribers. Generally

these agents (mostly Mexican or Mexican American) vere related

(which the station at that tire felt was poca aecurity in trat

if they caled about sace, they would tale to eace other.

i Phree hoto sites core handled uy anderson waür the re-p

of Farry anosey (retired, living in Chicago! and 2DY ISD

people checking the best type of camera, felm, and concealment

devices.

These had sub-cripts under LIFEAT (LININED, LILTIC,

and DISALLA), LINED was a fired site bang oprosite across

the street from

the front gate ef tre Soviet Imbassy vrich had

both a vecicle and foot entrance. The Soviet fate as on the

orthest corner of their concound aud 10732D les diagocally

scross e

double barrelled atreet on dae Southaaste

/SECRET

#12358

---

## Page 2

"SEONE?

CiCE

shocke.

11.D was the tiasa base and it operazod succotin en an

hunted basis to bus deard dodguse

- Chand me next Station cought

tada grocerty ja/Spanisa Colonial stone nouse, through. LECUSTE icheci to

se surel. Later this house began to fall apart. This base was closed when

the Station got word that the photo of "uniden man" was being

released to the

puclic by the Warren Conmission. The photo operators were moved

to another apt

nearby. The property vas sold (under an operational agreement with LIMOUSIVE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment blding to be built

on this site). LILYRIC was planned as an alternate photo base to LEITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on the same side of the street

as iTaid but in the middle of the block South. It had a slanted view of

he front gate of the Soviet Eirbassy. The alents in LISTED and LILYRIC (both

'exican families) as far as we knew, were not acquainted with each other.

LIUREd was a rented apartment. LICALIA, the third photo site, as located

in one of a row of four houses

on the South side of the Soviet Embassy compound

vich the 'exico Station purchased in about 1958 (check date), also using

urchaser (check). This site overlooked the back Tarden of

the stret Imbassy compourd.

the turnose of this operation vos to get

good

identicication

unotograchs of the Soviet personnel (ico at thet time were largely

mideaticica in lexico Station recoras. The three proto sites vere handled by

ecca: citize: s is. oter firo faust ele enter lovel do

Cellarican School. Ramon coliected sie In deli

a:à ITIo doree tines a leeli. His sister's husband, Carlos (lexican dócto?)]

severeed and printed tre film into 8xl0 contact prirt strips. The master rian

for LiCAliA 2ilm to e rocessed inside TSD man from 1957 to 1959 (Farper

a restineá) could not handle the volume and as the unprocessed eila jesan

o accurulate, the inside Co (ahoney) jecane disgusted and took ihe 2ilm out

ie render too all three photo eses.

à sersitire stag a ronitoring operation

LSEGNET

---

## Page 3

ЗАМЕТ.

cas mun out od another see e8 age Loudes ferrat Coo te Bore konese tas

LENes, 1, abela this was ha.died oy Clea NoDDEn (outside ISD creicar ara

Valoney using HO TDY beans for monitoring. Duis oncration cas also separate

=com LICAliA, The buo couses in cetueen were rented to unsusrecting tenaats.

c. Mobile surveillance as developed by Anderson and later placed

under aloney and joseph Sancho. This team consisted of a haif

dozen or so agents wio used three to four late model cars and a

panel truck (which could be used on stake outs for uhoto corera e).

The plan was to activate this group by radio (from LITED BASE)

vicen someose of interest left the/Embassy gate and stay with them

until they made their meetings. These agents shew aboit the InaRED

JASE cecause they had LI InD shotos

for identification purceses.

This worked fairly well until about

the middle of 1958 (sheck date)

when one of the surveillance agents got too close to his target ard

was arrested by the lexican transit police and turned over to the

Mexican Secret Service. Ey the time the Station could arrange through

a cleared attorney to sail him suit Juäd Austin of the Goodrick,

Ittle and Riquelre Ptrm) the agent had identitleà Sancho ludio ir2s

evacuated across the border at Nogales by Boo Shaw) and the inside.....

hone nuncer of Mahoney (ho was suorequently reclaced or Louis

Fuckett;. is a sesilt of this flap, the LEaT project was broken

up into several others. The arents were not changed but were giren

new erupts. /istancona aid recty lassare rerlaced Andersón in herding

siofun atere chor taps. Fuciets repleced ahoney ard handled tine

surveillance team (LiTA?) ená ste photo jases tiro endemon.

do DEGET vas Le ernt iseà cor afantlateral (origina 17) nail

nuercept candled oy Charlie Anderson

I=I, the agent (erican) Lad

* sent official status sno armened to obtain selected letters from:

---

## Page 4

-4-588

Lla suo-erent in the postal sentem i think at Be almortly

_conso Spera,

Tis

12210003

2. (Liaison coverase vas unreliable and incecure as scaraeterized by the natura

of the Mexican services fat that time. [che lexican DIS (Direction of federal

CÓ Govemment. This Inistry sent a najor part of its time on control of

foreigners and political lovestications. Their a ents vere vicious,

venal,

corrupt extortionists. Robert icloers establisted contact with

one

of them

Levine De leon (later LITE rouD) In about 1950

or 51.

He gave

then

training la group of acout cive surreillance tires. In travel control varking

the atroort as Well as file searches of names

from OFS Fatrs where the siles

"ere poorly organized and oiten inaccurate.

ow and then, however, sore useful

information as developed out it could not se decended upon. (Celbergas

reclaced by Phil Rottinger (res fped and renaired in Nerico ahorey, Thomas

Fazlitt, ard Robert Feldmanny

During 1953, Vin Scott met socially some

of the chronies of the

Merican Fresident elect, Adolfo loren lateos

During

this period, the j.s.

Ambassador Rovert C. Hill (reflecting the policy of then

State

J.F. Duiles)

vas energetic in organizing groups to "fight co munism".

these seeds

grew into a proposal estel dietan (Ji. son af forter less Prestdent), acting

(For lonez 'ateos, made to lin Scost for a joint "elephone tap operation. This

project (LIZWOY) went through acout four distressing years of

a shakedown.

(the ferdcan in control (LEICANT) as Inese rienced,

old, and greedy.. His

son LEVOY-Ll as a mastergiece as deceit and sumption. 1380ur also

antoulated co. tri over the rincipal agent i LIstenali Latercept!

The

Ease case officer was Altonso Spora inolde vich fumer Smith (retired) outulde

and john

(TSD busining officer for surveillance and auad of tee listening

Post here Jainty tele hone lines to ld cocasat

---

## Page 5

SECRET

started on erecan

zonazan bue station taled Goes every

mind John ded language di ficulores sao

personal problems associated with being sutside the station do et the kestcans

were Virtually uncontrollable, operd& noney as

ploased, squirrelling avey

equipment at enornous costs, aud neglecting their gart of the bargala miche

oduction of transcripts er

placing taps which we vented. Scera was replaced

by Jack Brady who found himself in the same pincer movement of having

Scott

approve a request by LIFTEGAVT that Brady had turned down b

the son

ARPION

Finally when the cost became exhorbitant and there was little to show for it,

the project was revanced.

and John returned to the U.S. and were replaced

oy a TSD officer, [charles mick who was cut inside the listening cost to raintair

reassigned to other

dutles

rending a transfer.

the equipment./ Scott took over the project as

officer meeting with LIELEGANT.

Fe designated Ann Goodpasture to meet calling with alte

for routine sucervision

of the listening post, picking up transcrints and tapes.

Goodpasture had no

deal ine with

except when Scott was ill or out of town. Generally,

all decisions were nade by Scott. This was accut late 1961.

3. My zerory is a little vague aoout the origins of the Cuban ambassy but i

think the staff first developed fron a pro-Castro group celebrating on Hew

Years eve 1959. is I recall, it was a takeshift arrangerent of volunteers

through most of 1960 and di with Tom Fazlitt producing voluminous reports on

their activities and recruiti.g agents right and left anong Cuban nationals in

Mexico City.

4. Personnel assignments. Of interest to us now is who was in lexico during

the period prior to Oswald's visit and the subsequent investigation by the

warren Conmission.

To deterine wo was there and what they were acing =

have

grouped

persons torether chronologically with areas of their assignment

cov. ring tron 1950 to 1969 so thrt seatter names

cop up, one can tell what

period they were in lexico md their assimments

at the time.

SECRET,

---

## Page 6

8/56-6,69

COS

DSCS

Winston !!. Scott (deceased)

7/56 - 7/59

Alfonso Rodriguez (retired)

10/58 - 12/62 arrant Deant (retired)

6/63 - 9/65

Man White

10/65 - 1969

(retired)

Stanley Watson (retired

aco)) 7

COVERT ACTION

sion to 195%1

Howard

Funt (Fetired)

541- 7/53LWultard. Ht130

(resigned)

12,56 - 9/61

Stannard Short (retired)

Chief

9/61

- 3/64

David

Phillips C/(retired) -

8/62 = 9/64

(Cunner Beckman Asst) -

2/64 - 6/65

Janes Flannery C/(retired) -

9/64 - 11/66

Herold Dalghren Asst

10/65 - 1967Stenley Watson/ (retired)

Won Heat!

68

- 71

Joseph Si

co!]

CUBA OPERATIONS

56 - 4/62

Thomas Hazlitt Chief

2/60 - 4/62 [Jack Stewart (retired

Costa Rica) ]

4/63 - 4/65

Bob

Shaw Chief

9/63 - 7/65 CRay Swider 7 (retired) -

10/63 - 5/65 Lorna Mackay

8/66 - 6/65 David Phillips Chief (rativad) -

9/65 - 10/68 Joseph Piecolo

10/55 - 12/67 Pesgy Meggard

SOVIET TARGET

6/57 - 10/59 Louise Lyon (retued!

9/59- 8;65 (herbert anell Chief

9/59 - 8/65 & Barbara Hanell

5/64 - 7/66

Willian Bright

4/65 - 11/67 Cynthia Fausmann

6/65 - 7/67 Alice Pittinger

7/65 - 4/69 Paul Dillon Chief

SOVIET TRANSCRIBIRS

6/56 - 8/58

Morris Gordon (resigned)

6/58 - 6/63

George Misko

6/63 - 70

Boris Tarasoff (retired in Mexico) -

6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Marheine (ps)

(retired ?)

Cutside CO

---

## Page 7

SUELOPT ASSaTS

Can onono taps

119497 - 1961

Charles Anderson III Chief

(49-7) " Outside CO

4/557- 4/60

Peggy Vaggard Assta

V56 - 1462

David WILSTED (ps)

Frank Estancona Chief

retired in Mexico

2/60 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan

9/C4 - 12/67 Michael Farner

lateral photo Cubans

6/59 - L/64 LRobest Zambernardi

(resigned t

7/59 - 6/62

(Richard Spathar TSD (retired)

Suntiatere

choto Soviets

• 4459

Harry T. Mahoney

(retired Chicago)

5/57 - 8/64

A. Goodpasture

(alternate CO -

and internal routing)

6/58 - 6/63

6/63

Louis D. Packett (retired)

- 10/64 Thomas

Keenan

65 -

66

Willian Bright

63-

56 - 68

Outside Agent

Remon Alvarez (resigned to vexico,

are waiting

meson phone taps

1959 - 1969

Winston Scott (deceased)

1959

= 1960

Al fonso Spera

(retired)

1959

-1960 urner

Smith? (outside, now retired)

1959 - 1960

John

(Training rept resigneà)

1960-

1961 John brady (retired)

1962 - 1968

A. Godcasture

1961 - 1971

(Charles Alich (outside ISD Staff Agent - retired) -

Son - surveillance

519521 Robert Wethere (retired)

3/54

- 4/59

Farry Mahoney

(retired)

4/59 - 1901

Thomas Hazlitt

12/62 - 9/67 Robert Beldmanne

TSD Outside unit

14/53

- 12/63

5/59 -4/34

Glen Widden (retirea)

Joseph.:. Resigno (ps) Unit blown and closed duvn

---

## Page 8

SEGRE

about mid Leon reite ratel

è telephone runners se lihe Sordet, Cuban, and Satellite Elbassies.

eas I recall, the de toang] connected 5 Cuban Lines, 5 Soviet Iines, 3 Gzech,

2 Polish, ond 1 Zugoslar Ine. The basehouse listening post had a 14re

monitor who made short sunaries of interesting conversations for a daily

resume which was

received each day arourd 8 a.m. (passed by tell

Ito Goodrasture

to get to Scott before 9 a.m.) Later (when the reel was completely recorded)

full transcripts were typed and casced to the station in the same way, however,

there was usually a time lag of a day or so. Those transcripts which cad

Russian or another lanzuage besides Spanist or English went out of the listening

post the day after the transcript (of other conversations on the reel)was

tiped. These reels were taken to another location where they were translated

and typed. In the case of tre Russian translations, Doris Tarasoff asually ran

acout a week behind the date of the conversation because of the volume or

Russian conversations among the embers of the Soviet E bassy. During this

ceriod (fall of 1963) the reels were probably being brought into the station

ana carried to Boris by one of the

reople from the Soviet Section or they may

have been carried to him by lickout i shink i brouget the reel in and

gave

I to take to boris. fuent aneliara miserare

candled all of the processi gof Soviet transcrints. y job involved screening

the protographs as soon as

we learned that the man calling himself Oswald vas

probably an Averican. However, here again there was a backlag vecause the

photos were picked up three tines a week but the ones picked up were asually

for jates a few days reriously because a doctor rece sed ste dila on a

night tine basis. Frotorrachs vere nade usually intil one roll was used cut

lazer ve got it charred to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the

operetors cleared the sonera each day wether bance was any timaxes a 2u21

roil or biim etrosed. Instructions were to cover office bours, photograga ench

---

## Page 9

BOLT

cem doviet and Panded, all Soreignees and donsign leenee plates, Runaa

error did seour out generally the agents were conscienticus.

The Cubar

excassy coverage had more sophinticated equipment la pulse ca eral tut it

frequently develored rechanical difficulties. Bab

Zambagna

and Scathe

(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorna ladlay sorcered

the film inside the station.

I am certain that the Oswald call came to our attention from the

Soviet line.

It was picked u, and taken to Boris for

a translation because

the caller

was

trying

to speak Russian. Any delay was caused by vaiting to

compare the photograchs with the tyred transcript. There were so

copies of

boarscripts

every made in languages otker than Scanish or English because lin

Scott could

read only those

tro

languages and he

erschaily

screened

the

transcripts

for operational leads he wanted

cursued.

1ET,

---

## Page 10

SECRET

(4) Sor Eno gate

1- LIMITED

2=

LILYRIC

3. LICALLA

3

---

