# 104-10171-10207

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10171-10207

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

18 108088 1960

MEMÜRANDUM FOR THE RECOND

05

SUBjECT, Moodlas vlea pranciaco Aguirror (gülerg) a bome, Late

alteracon of lo dugust.

0.5

|Agulrre sald he had recently returned trus a son day viole lo Mexle.

ley and had vialted ails Fordlga Allalator danuel tello

lollo aald that

Maxico →1ll be la a very dillicult pooltlos is the coming Uns meallag. That

although Mextio could inke a arrons sland agalast Cuba ll mill noi do so.

That Mexico would only do so

se 80 say thas sulldarlty in lue lessera

Hamlapbere lo anacarlas shat 1be

countrias la

allu inertea should be amaro

al this Commus

0s 1har

nervention

lo a serlous danger and thas the

GAs take mbarater ac

Tben

necdonary la oxder lo arold a cousiry

from intervening la the allalro al another. agutire sald he then told tello D5

phar Caba could not be averloated as 18 was

Berlous problem.

Tello counterod

by naylag shas tha Cuban attualios and Dominican queation abould not be corrused

Is the one-sil panorsusa; Furlhar, that the bualneos larereats a the Unleed

Statas l1 Cuss mere sol a proper sistler di dlacuaston.ae the UNS bus tuat sala

problem ahould da precestad before the lataraitional Coure al IDe Hague as

the CAS le Dol det up to handle auch problara. lollo said that ll mould be a

marake lor the Úalled States so relar lo the Caracas resolutlos on Communlom

1a tho 0:5. Jello cald that the cituarion la Mexico has changed so much

recessly itial de blingell la la danger becauso be da conaldered as too much of.

a milddle al the roader, and la looking for as assigiment as an imbassador

broad so ho can leavo she county," ¡gulite bald thas bli Impressions al U.

Mexico on tals

trip more toas la the labi forty-five days: Lovez Mareos Das loal

considerable ground and that General insaro Cardenso la getting atronger dad

ll the tread continues, Lasaro Cardenas, pill in a abort lime, o merge as lie

arrang man is Mexico.

marchtas Cuba osly in as auch so the Lubes alluation allecte Arzensias

because ol lhe presence In. Cuba of cértain mell knova leruniora, and also

•Che Guevara, Is! Lirall added that the general over-all Cubas problem

Is remad by irgentlas vilh the same coolseas mhich lar United stares de slo

with the problemi al Antarcilca.

6/BR

---

## Page 2

05

3. guirralibomadme a letter postmarked Monte carlo and mrletes

by d'edro Estrada:

In the letter Estrada suld phat l'e ron la the unly one ol

she Peronlois leaders viao opposes ibe Cubana.

Homorer, alace be la out-

numbered be'hao agreed lo ally bimooll will Castro, Lairede sold that ibis

Information came from fortirto kablrosa muo he bad dees receslly in Moola

Carlo at ton rest

aurant d! PIrala and Mublrods sald luat do dad been morklag on Peron

so make ibis alllance.

jublroes aald that the apparent diasgreement besween

Trujillo and Castro la only a facade. - That aclually Trujillo and Castro bare

Joined togerber la a cocres alllance which ass been forged by ibelr mutual bare

10r Belancourt and because both feel that the valled Staies can and may destroy

bota ol them. Habtroos sold that a

fier the UfS meetlag there will be a aalled

(root of Half, Domlalcan Kepublic, and Caba.

do As sato polar A gulara oata be lobad to give mo some advice, Thai

belag, that under so circumalacos should leadero ol the END establlab them-

solves Is Mexico Clly, That ho had bard information lo the olfect that 11

Varona el al do come to Mexico lay will be under constant surrelllance and

as the proper ilme. Cardonds will dive the norú to dave them asrested; they

will do jalledi ibeir plane esposed. and the EKD la Mexico wil be destroyed.

= 05

REBiTO.

3. guirre said the Cuban intelligence vervice In tiaablagton to vely

It bao á greal deal of money and operaled la lisabiagion under she

directlos ol Enrique Rodrigues Loeches, Secreiary of lie Cuban Embasay la

Hsobiugloa;.and Commander Jose Moleon, Cubas Military attacha, This led

¿guirte to voluateds the naine al lue pardon taora le sald mas la charge os

Varlean intelligesce la Vasbiagion. He said it la Mags. Plo Lagal, sao la

koms as lhe auditor los the apostole delegation and who has served several

years ln Lalla ¿merica.

do I roadered obot ulterlor morita, "l any, aguirre bad la sablaj to soo

mo ao urgenlly lo paga on lie above: and trted lo i

lo a litile probiag. Na 185

as I could see. U se bie sa clerior molive. It mas a suggestion do made laal

she appropriate. Cuban exlles do more broadcasting and gire more publicity

lo the mrongs al tho Castro reglue.

looked his lore this could be dose, and

he said shas ose way l8 could be done Dad by unlag his neuspaper Diario las

"08

(merlead ke sold thal al present he sends asywbere from lour hundred lo

¡oenly-live bundred coples ol tbe newopapor dally li Havana, depending upos

she partloular pablication and that he could start bavlag edliortals publisbed

whlch would be unpalatible so Coatro ill which would undoubtedly cause tha

Cuban Goverarent lo pratibli ise eniry al ibe| Ltarlo into Cuba. Thes lbe

08

Diarlo mould start broadcasting from slaml into Cuba and say that taese

brosdcasts were being payed lur by prominent. Cabao exiles.

S)8h

---

## Page 3

14:00000

NO ClASSIfICaTION

EVIDENT ON ThIS

DocumenT. I sm süre

IT ISfWIS. I PUTIT

2S SECRET IN INDEX

RECORD, for ory. Class!

Affiats

onoitinias g.1).

mAQ

OK 62

---

## Page 4

14-0000

• "Agulrra asid de vas leavlagfor lien Tora tse morolag of ll Augua!

don so la MlAmris retari salurday.. La Mlaul de could be reached a

P.Lasa|1-796J or TUxedo 8-1163, )ur gulrre also said thas bo boped to be la

Costa Rica dartag the DAS conlerenco..

COMMENT: la my deallago Misb| Agulira) over the paal luo youre and

Elm Noell D which go back much longer, to le bear al my knowledge be bes

ya played as honest game with

Staco he has numerora, wall-placed

unilf son has proved secure,

naro bo given so guirreland he agreed.

03

Hadolph F. Gomes

Deputy Chiel

Viestara Hamlaphere Divialon

Dr. Gallary

Сова. стааваят: 0

LT• Holmas 0i

Mr.

Cabages

Terrell 03

MX

• Reynolda 0}

419/SR

---

