# 104-10187-10141

## Page 1

104-10187-10141

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Ar. TI0M

:.1050.

CLASSIFICO MESSAGE

• SECRET

peason/ vari unterilo

ADVANCE

COPI

Dione vera For untr.

SEC

RE

21175:2

CIR CITE SALV 5267

at DIV

СИВА"

CUBAN DEFECTION

78239

REESE AO SALV $219 (-2 73359)

IOS

R: TS

SI

B. SALV 3263( 00781642+

PER3: AR

LOG

CA

BE

SEC

NS

ADD IT IONAL PERTINENT INFO FROM <

24

# CUNVEILLANCE 12 SEPTEMS

IS PAUL EQMUNDO MONZON

+4-77477,59914, <201-745832) ENTERZD LOBBY SAFESITE HOTEL 1531

HOURS AND REMAINED 15 TO 20 MINUTES. THIS DURINGIVISIT VET'ANDEZ TO

SAFE SITE ROQM AND IS. REST

INDICATION PCES USED COUNTERSURVE ILLANCE.

HERNANDEZ AND KONZON ENTERED

AND LEFT WITHOUT INTERFERENCE AND NEITHER WAS FOLLOWED.

?. SAN SALV IS SMALL CITY WITH FEW HOTELS OR MOTELS OR FAIR SIZED

(FFICE BUTLE INGS.

IT HAS CONCENTRATED

THESE DOUNTOWN SHOPPING AREA.

IT DOES

NOT LEND ITSELF TO GLANDESTINE OPS AGAINST WURY TARCETS AUTORS HAS

BEEN AND IS BEINC PAINSTAKING IN SECURITY PRECAUTIONS. LARCE DOWN-

TON! HOTEL WAS USED FOR CARA ERS SAFESITE, CLY OTHER LARCE HOTEL

CIA OFFICER

WHICH ON OUTSKIRTS BEING LEED FOR RESIDENCE CE CALEND AND A

MARN DEFECTORS

TEL CAFESITE WHICH REASONABLY BICURE ANS INTENDED FOR

-UPAN TARGE

INSTiLL BEING HELD FOR SHARNTARGET

SEES DEDRIEF

DEA OP 21 SEPTENEER. CAP RENTED SY

SECRET

z/MV

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CUSTER MESAGE

SECRET

IN 732:2 PAGE 2

DID IN OTHER THAN TRUE NA:! IS OLD A:'& HAS PRIVATE PLATES.

'INTERSE EFFORT BEING MADE TO I, L015 CASE AS RAPIDLY AND SECURELY AS

POSSIPLE, DO NOT CONSIDER IT USEFUL TO CABLE DETAILED PLANS WHICH ARE

SUBJECT TO RAPIO SHANGE DEPETDING ON DEVELOPMENTS, VILL CYBLE ALL

FERTISENT DEVELOPMENTS.

SECRET

#AVAiLAILO FACTS do NOT PeRMIT FiRM CONCLuSiONS

As to wHy TARgeTs HAve NoT Appended Am Selected

InFesiTes.

SECRET

---

