{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

/104-40220-10020)

es

“euamien 10 co one Ho

[xavier ro cn ewe wo. ~

8) OF merune 10
FILE, VR Koda : Lf

, atten ne Siscaradaneatinnnats einer emai :

it | : eal

| DIRECTOR, BONN, FRANKFURT, BERLIN INFO

| INK

: ter AS se

| REF: 1629,, 17 NAR 1969, ET. Ale (NOT NEEDED BONN Franxrut
1. INBREED HAS REPORTED THAT RICHARD CASE NAGELL BORN

3 AUGUST 1930, KEW YORK, US CIT, Hes «GAIN-CONE TO SWISS ATTENTIONS
ON 15 APRIL 1970

@atmed

1
i

|
f SECRET 121m1a% JUN 70 CLIEGERDG708 n

}
I

| IN MID APRIL 1970 HE REGISTERED AT ZURICH HOTEL.

| REPORTED. To POLICE THAT His RAINCOAT HAD. DISAPPEARED.
i

i

i

\

‘

t

i

THAT AN IMPORTANT pocusenr INTENDED FOR THE. ANERICAN MILITARY
DOCUMENT WAS ENTITLED

“ qution ites IN-BERLIN WAS IN THE POCKET.
"FISCAL YEAR 70 “WSAREUR)." . : cent . ae ie

2. RAINCOAT “was FOUND SHORT WHILE 1! ATFR 18 HOTEL Saws.” o .

HOTEL TURNED RAINCOAT OVER TO ZURICH POLICE

ALLEGED DOCUMENT.

WHERE SUBJ SUBSEQUENTLY PICKED IT UP. : %
WHEN QUESTIONED: BY POLICE, SUBJ GAVE &S REFERENCES?

COL. FRANCIS H. DILLON, OFFICE OF COUNTER INTELL IGNECE.

3.
oe
AND SECURITY, DIA, WASHINGTON, =~ Se a reece :
B. FRANCIS X. PLANT, SPECIAL ASSISTANT, OFFICE OF UNDER

: ‘ SECRETARY OF ARMY.
C. BRUCE A. FLATIN, PUBLIC SAFETY SECTION, US MISSION

SECRET 06 ogpy 12 Sine ©



ater rtiis ee as

ened ye co rhaehd, 2 EE

PAGE 2 BERN Soa ‘SECRET.
BERLIN. ; eae : :

4. SUBJ CLAIMED HE NOW LIVING HOTEL STADT DRESDEN, BERLIN,
CHARL OTTENBURG, STUTTERTER PLATZ 17. i
Se BONN FRANKFURT DERLING : SUBJ IS FARKICATOR AND. MENTAL
CASE WHO PERLODICALLY CAUSES TROUE: = 7 oR SWISS AND LuPune
CONSULATES 1 SUISSE. cece :

6. HQS: REQUEST PERMISSION PASS INBREED INFO CONTAINED PARA 3s.
DIRECTOR 80955, 6 MARCH 1969. OTHER ADDEESs PLEASE ADVISE APPROPRIATE.
US anny AUTHORITIES ON OFF CHANCE THEY ARE sincere copy oF “Fiscal
“YEAR 70 cusaREURD.* :

Te FILE 201- 77465376 GP-1-
SECR E T

ot

