“qo4-10234-10438 [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992. i
. i ‘| - 7 7 ~
: ¢ :

28 August 1964”

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting with AMVHIP/1, New York City, 20 August 1964

1. Meeting Time/Place/Purpose. This meeting was held in
the offices of AWWHYD/I from 1200 until 1430 and from 1815 until
2000 on 20 August 1964. The purpose was to discuss MHAPRON
matters and to brief him for his coming trip to Europe and the
expected re-contacts with AMLASH/2 and UNSNAFU/19.

i
|
1
Hl
i
t
q
|
2. Details of Meeting.
&. "El Mago" ROBREXO, According to ROBRENO'’s futher
who is presently Tiving In exile in New York City, El MAGO
is presently living in Madrid at Pension HISPANA, Ave.
Jose Antonio 44, Plaza del Callao; telephone No. not known.
A/1 will go Madrid to see EL AGO on MHAPRON rams, and then
: take him to Paris for a few days, if he is willing. (EL
MAGO should be useful for gleaning information from the
Embassy types while in Paris.)

b. Jewelry Deal. According to AMWHIP/1, thero have
mot been any transactions since the initial ones of 300,000
and 10,500 in June 64. He had expected to receive a packet \
of jewelry per month worth ca. 50,000 dollars. A/l also AM.
wrote some time ago (June 64) to UNSNAFU/19, but has not re- ‘* ~.
ceived an answer to date. It is not known at this time ae
whether the lack of further jewelry packets is just poor
administrative procedures on the part of the Cubans, or
whethor perhaps A/l is suspect for some reason by the Cubans.
This should be resolved when next A/l meets with U/19.

c. FAL Equipment. A/l stated that he felt one of the
first things 5D MAGO would ask him was about the FAL equip-
ment which AMLASH/1 has requested. A/) was told that the
silencer for the FAL did not exist and that it probably was
not feasible to attempt to adapt a make-shift one, according
to weapon authorities. The matter of a telescopic sight was



: not discussed. A/l was told that special equipment fo~ a
i rifle such as the FAL was difficult to procure as the

t weapon was designed primarily as a general-purpose combat
j weapon, not for special tasks. A/l then asked about the

H possibility of purchasiag a special soapon ia Europes and

1 have EL MAGO take it back with him, He was told that such
i special rifles (probably for bunting big game)were un- i
! doubtedly available in Europe, but that this did not solve H
the biggest problem of how to get it into AMLASH/1. He {
eee was told that such a gun or any part of it would undoubted- i
} ly be highly suspect if EL MAGO tried to bring any such t
items into Cuba. It is apparent, however, that this topic
will continue to be one of concern to all persons connected
with the AMLASH/1 operation until it is resolved. Perbaps
the ‘best bet would be to level with AHLASH/] at the next
meeting and tell him that such equipmnt will net be forth-
A coming from KUBARK or ODYO<E sources, together with the

{ : reasons why not.

i da. juisition of Cubsn Pesos. A/1 stated that he had
i called Ricardo "s son in iphia several times
(confirmed by telecons earlier between undarsigned and A/1
. in New York) but that in each case, the son had stated that
“. he had received no packages from his father from Hexico
during the latter's last tine in that city. A/1 thought
this indeed strange. The undersigned opined that perhaps
‘ it was difficult to obtain pesos today due to the stringent
id currency controls now in force in Cuba. We suggested to
sé AMMHIP/1 that he not pursue this proble: ith BORDO further,
as any over-zealous efforts on his part to obtain the
a currency might come to the attention of the Cuban authorities.
Of course, 1f BORDO does produce thé pesos at a later date
(with no additional prompting from A/l), they will be readily
accepted. _ bee ke  Rhe wo Ft
nok $26 Ty nee bac than Red

|
|
|
|
|
|

i
|
!

time Comaie Vincentina Antina was the mistress for many
years of Eduardo PERNAS, a jeweler acquaintance of A/1's
who owned (until intervened several weeks ago by the Castro
government) part of the jewelry firm of Pernas Gomez y Cia
(Consulado) located on the corner of San Miguel and San
Rafael Sts, Havana. PERNAS also had a store in Mexico City.
According to A/1, PERNAS is now out of Cuba in Mexico, and ot
should have some interesting information to provide, since {
he was sc close to ANTUNA for many years. PERNAS can be
reached at his store, Plaza de la Constitucion 7, Yexico
City, telephone No, 13-32766. (Eqs traces on one Eduardo
PERNAS, possibly identical with above PERNAS are attached.)

eo


° C [pein

PERNAS is originally of Spanish national: . This lead

H bas been passed to the MHAPRON shop for Yollow-up. A/1

i stated that he believed #ERNAS's business was protected

: from intervention up to thi. time through the inter-

| cession of TUNA (AMNZIP commented that his business
along with those of most of his friends suffered their

: fate quite some time ogo.)

2. Raymundo TORRES ("El GuaZiro"). TORRES called

A/1 from Wexico y Ww: a mat rom AMLASH/1 for
A/l (see below), At that time, TORRES out from Cuba on
: a trip, was staying at the Hotel Guardiola, Ave. Madero

1 and San Juan de Letran, phone 218580. Later he moved to
Hornes 74, Apt 304, Mexico, D.F. A/l stated that TORRES
was all right and apparently was trusted enough by AMLASH/1
to deliver an inocuous message and letter, the latter being
: not so baraless, A/l stated that TORRES wae z.ven to
i peseoan Grinking and took dope upon occasion, (No identifiable
prea traces on TORRES).

€- AMLASH/1, LASH sent A/l the accompanying letter
wailed by TORRES. from Mexico. The text is self-explanatory.
It has been decided that there would be too much room for
suspicion if KUBARK tried to bave LASH invited to the cited
National assembly of Surgeons. A/l has an acquaintance
+e with one Manuel RODRIGUEZ, who was in 1959 a wedical student
and President of the Mexican F.£.U. He suggested that if !
he could locate RODRIGUEZ, he might be able to have hin
formally invite AMLASH to the Assembly, as the latter desires.
A/) has not seen RODRIGUEZ (on whom there are no identi- 1
\ fiable traces) for about three years, but believes tiat
—— there 4s no risk in attempting te locate hin and asking this 4
favor. It is perhaps worth the effort, although admittedly a
ig it is a long shot. It should be noted that RODRIGUEZ’s
= father is believed to be a communist, but that, according
. to A/l, RODRIGUEZ is not. (This would adually not be a
problem, providing RODRIGUEZ believed that he wes just doing
: a favor for A/1 who desires to see his old friend LASH.)
‘ The note added to LASH's letter from "Marzo" is fron
Marcelino ARTIME Vega, who was used as a cut-out for mail
‘ between LASH and A/1 prior to the October 62 Crisis. MARZO
is a former phys. Ed instructor in the Batista ega , and is
presently employed at Los Hermanos store selling Jewelry.
He is trusted by LASH and A/I, needless to say.

3. There were no incidents of a security nature which
_ecame to the attention of the undersigned. A/1 will be contacted
telephonically concerning arrangements and advice on the AMLASE/1
letter. If necessary, a personal] meeting will be arranged prior



f

to A/l's departure for Europe the woekend of 29 August.

Willian E, Wainwright
WH/BA/z0B ;

Distribution:
Orig ~ A/l ff
2 - £08 chrono

onan eS AS ain Hiatt em See OA LEN AD Rn Fane me

