ger aae
104-10308-10168|

V4"
ia "pie

&
Ke

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION padi ACT OF 1992 |

. . 7 fas my

ce €

11 OCTOBER 1964

MGE 27. RECEIVED. YOUR RM 44 AND 45. WHEN WE SAID THA

(A-27) COULD NOT BE INSTRUCTED, IT WAS BECAUSE HE EXPEC

TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY. IN THE SAME MGE, WE. ASKED YOU THAT HE BE

“SEPARATED FROM THE JAGUAR GROUP, HE WANTS TO LEAVE CUBA BECAU

HE THINKS THAT CUBAN COMMUNISM WILL LAST A LONG TIME BEFORE
BEING ELIMINATED FROM POWER AND THAT LIFE IN CUBA IS DIFFICULT
FOR ALL MEN WHO DO NOT SUBMIT TO ITS DOCTRINE. THAT'S WHAT HE TO

US. WHEN WE TOLD YOU OF OUR DESIRE TO TAKE INTO OU
i} LSaeaies arc: cc2eua CAaaT aur MSTibetenarer f

JAGUAR GROUP, WE DID SO ASKING YOUR PERMISSION, AFTERWARD WE WII

TELL HIM YOUR DECISION IN THIS CASE, WE FURTHER PROPOSED THAT

HE = ‘BE GIVEN NUMBER A-27 WHICH WAS ABANDONED BY

WE REMEMBER. WE ARE AWAITING YOUR AUTHORIZATION T(

INSTRUCT A-35 IN SW. WE KNOW OF NO CASES OF OFFICIALS WHO ARE IN

PRISON FOR AFFECTING THE ECONOMY. / ON THE ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT

AGAINST FIDEL, WE KNOW THEY TOOK TWO CIVILIANS WOUNDED BY
ere NR

SHOOTING TO THE CALIXTO GARCIA HOSPITAL, MOMENTS LATER, TWO
a eee ene

nm

SOUkDIK SOLDIERS FROM FIDEL'S GUARDS PRESENTED THEMSELVES IN SAID

HOSPITAL TAKING AWAY THE WOUNDED, we DO NOT KNOW MORE DETAILS,.
nena be —

Se —_—_—

IN THE LAST DAYS OF LAST MONTH, 70 TRACKED TANKS ENTERED A CAMP

LOCATED BETWEEN SANTA MARIA DEL ROSARIO AND EL COTORRO, THE TA
WERE TRANSPORTED ON TRAILERS FROM WHERE WE DO NOT KNOW. (A-24)
THE 4TH OF OCTOBER, THE RUSSIAN SHIP "SIRHOTE ALIN' ENTERED THE

MARIEL PIER COMING FROM THE USSR WITH TOTAL CARGO OF CHEMICAL

Lut

yf — q
ye FERTILIZER IN BULK. REPORT WHOSE SECOND, NAME IS

Tat

. but
i RPE REPEAT. SECOND NAME (eo) A-7=A-9.


13-001
‘eat eect:

“ THE CREW OF THE SHIP IS SOVIET AND NORMAL, THE NEWS OF THE FLEEIN(

av aneuenmnee

_ OF COMMANDANT "CONTRERAS", CHIEF OF THE CUARENTENARIO BASE,
TOGETHER WITH A GROUP OF OFFICERS AND FRIENDS HAS BEEN CONFIRMED.
: Y w THERE ARE NUMEROUS PERSONS UNDER ARREST IN SAID BASE FOR NOT
& a HAVING PREVENTED THEIR FLIGHT, ANOTHER SIMILAR GROUP FLED
‘ye & FROM THE GRAMMA BASE, ALL THE DESERTERS FLED IN CUBAN NAVY
* : LAUNCHES,. WE SUSPECT THAT AT THIS MOMENT, THEY ARE IN U.S.
TERRIROTY.. IF IT IS SO, WE ARE VERY HAPPY BECAUSE OF THE GREAT
DEAL THESE REPENTANT ONES KNOW. A-7=A-9=A-15. TOBE

CONTINUED IN 28. ALSO REPORT ON NATIONAL BANK. GREETINGS. JUAN.

END-END END

Yi

