# 104-10177-10189

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10177-10189

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PRIOR TO FLING

1. Fill in Sect. 2, on back. Dolach back lap and

forward lo RID.

¿. Dostoy loni cover sheel, unless il recorás

signdlical acton taken or comments requir-

in presertation

FROM

HID/

TO. ACTION BRANCH

il ble :0 and tillo stown aro nol proper, in.

sert proper lilo no. bolow and forward don

uTe ne 10 RID/AN.

TROPEN TILE NO

TO ALL'ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON DACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

WISAESC

ROON

DATE

RECrIVRO i ron

28 we sai

20

292u64 C

Saalici Em

13/3/4, ak

COPY DETACHED

RETURN TO GIR

Background Usa

Do Not produce

10-5E6

i a soil

10.

11.

12.

13

15.

1115

115/65. RK

3/0/59

votest.

100=8

: . .

6100

iri das

FILE TITLE

-759791

21186212

22. Dieldi

UFGA

19050

SECRET

• 13

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

Deputy Chief, WH/SA

CLASSMATIN

FAOCESSING

war ord.

MADGUAR INS 151

Chief of station, unrEls

S&*TYPIC/OPERATIONAL

Transmittal_of Memorandim.of_Oral_Commitnent-Identity 1

ANTON REGUISED RETEFINNIS

Action Required: FIT

Reference

: None

Transmitted herewith are three (3). copies of Memorandum of

Oral Commitment for Identity A.

Andrew X. REUTENAN

Attachments:

1 - MOC i2/1

2 - IDENS W/S/C

SIC

Daze..=

Distribution:

3 - Addressee w/atts a/s

!: 21 914,

"CROSS REFERENEZ TO

DASTCHEN

SECRET

1201-: 16.312.

DATE TYRO

SAME OSPATCHED

==-=

10 Dec 19641

INSINICH STUBOL INO MMSER

UFGA-19050

NEAZQUARTERS FILE NUMPER

,201-286382

---

## Page 3

14-00000

NORDEN OF ONAL CORMITIENT

TO

:Deputy Chies, iu/5d

FROM : Chief of Station, Jir"VE

SUBJECT: Engagement of IDESTITY A

_201 250352

Term and Project Chaige.

against pu cost conter.

The effoctive date of the oral contract 13

1 Decenber 1961 and

it shall continue until terminated by either

party upon fifteen days actual notice.

2.

Security Approval. The appropriate security approval, to

utilize Subject as requested, has been outained. Pai was granted

13 November 1964 per DIR 83823 dated 13 Nov 64.

on

at

Citizenship.

The Subject 1s a Cuban refugce

and was born

Sao Arriba, Holgut Oriente, cuund resides

IDENTITY B

4.

Compensation.

Connencing on the effective date of this

agreement,.. Subjectrtff-be pald compensation at the rate of $ 275.28

per month.

Such payments to be mace folloving completion of

satisfactory service.

tax.

Taxes

To deducted iron ed abore stated cond

compensation Subject s

Subject is infried

eligible for Social security a

and has a total of

dependents other than himself.

fuarters and/or Subsistence.

The Subject

will not

be furnished quarters end/ci subsistence.

Operational Expenses. When properly authorized, Subject will

• be reimbursed

for:

Operational travel including mileage clains for use

his personal autoravile.

b.

Operational hotel expenses, meals, telephone calls,

etc.

8. Other Comnitments:

BONUSES.

sath prior approval of COS, a bonus may be

authprazed for outstanding performance in the line of duty. The

amount of. the bonus will be commensurate with the risks taken and

results which

vere achieved but will not excees 100.00 per nay single

bonus payment.

DEATH BENEFIT.

In the event of Subject's death in the line

of duty,

a settiement not to exceed, $5,000.00 will be cade to the

Subject's estate.

9.

Contignent Obligations.

No commitments other than those

stated

above have been made to the Subject.

Raises.

is entitle to a $50.00

net raise upon completion

training and Subject will receive another $50.00 net raise upon

Infiltration.

03

Print Cameras

CONTINET APPROVISG OFFICER

....

i.:

#: +171-14-19052 EStery

2286382.

---

## Page 4

4-00000

• .

..

SECHET

S/C/Attachment to UFGA-19050

IDENTITIES

IDENTITY

IDENTITY B

IDENTITY

PANEQUE Batista, Victor

928 .N.N. 2nd Street,

Apt #2, Miami, Fla.

SS# 051 - 36 - 4609

!

....

A te

'FGA110r6

---

