{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

‘04-107186-10713)

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tals mreterm: contains tafwronatia aferting the Meurect Defvear of the United Staten withia the maaing of the Exptonage Laws, Tie
16, COC. Gem THE and Tod the treamalésion oF Feveieinee of RICH In Gay mena to On Unautberued bereon Ww prenibiled by law,
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM’

counrny UDA : REPORTNO. —- CSCI-316//01237-64
sugect Arturo HERNANDEZ Telleria DATE DISTR. 8 October 1964
. é NO, PAGES. 2
. : RETURN TO CIA © REFERENCES
: Background Use Only
“pate of 1964 Do Not Reproduce

24 Washington, D. C.

N
DATE ACQ..October 1964 FIELD REPORT NO,

i source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
. Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The. following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Arturo HERNANDEZ Telleria was a. sergeant in BATISTA'’s
police force; he accompanied BATISTA when he was overthrown and
. escaped "to Sfinto Domingo. After a few days HERNANDEZ returned to
Habana, HERNANDEZ is now the Chief of Archives of the Direccion
General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2. HERNANDEZ was born sometime prior to 1919. He is five
feet pigejinches tall, 180 pounds, has a heavy build, and gray
2,

hair

Headquarters Comments:

1. In a report dated 5 August 1959, a fairly reliable source
stated that Arturo TELLERIA Hernandez, a sergeant, is an
agent in Bureau "A" Archives of the Technical Department
of Investigation of the National Revolutionary Police (DTIPNR).

2. In an official directive issued by the Technical Department of
Investigation of the Cuban Revolutionary Police on 20 April
1960, Arturo TELLERIA Hernandez was listed as a sergeant in the

3 Fy

i archives Section. This report was dated 19 October 1960. 4

3 3

2 SECRET Re] 2

1 : NO FOREIGN DISSEM = 1
‘STATE Tova Tawar Thaw’ Ta Tusa DAK

REP __CINCLANT. CINCSO= ENS
Tite: Field ditrbehen necared by "=

LX = 1519
NO! PROSECT ( AMMUC
C1-326/01237-44

etna :
nea ; H r=
ayn WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), Cl 4, RIDL i

46 SE 1965


3.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-216/0123}-64

: -2-

A usually reliable source, in a report dated 12 August 1963,
said that one Arturo TELLERIA was a sergeant in the Technical

Dopartment of Investigation (DTI).

TEER CRET
NO. FOREIGN DISSEM -

