104-10186-10118|

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Ri i e
«ARE PONE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘This material coataing laformation afecting the National Defense of tha United BUutes etthia the meaning of the Kaptoouss Laws,
1, URO Goon, TH) and Tos, (he Wreasmlasion Of Fureisuion of Wau io cay mando te 68 untulborieed person be prohibited by

wee.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

meron NO. C1-316/01231..64
6 October 1964

countay Cuba,

suwect Gines GORRIZ : OATE DisTR,
No. paces 2

crac REFERENCES CSCI-916/00369-64
a 24 July 1964

pate oF DO WA népea a!
wiaaueg

info, 1964
Washington, D. C.
PLACE & A
Date aca,October 1964 FIELD REPORT NO.
Twig 15 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE ORADINOS ARE OU/INITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE,

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments ~

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Gines*GorrIz, pseudonym¥"Gi1," is in charge of the
British Guiana desk in the Seccion Sur (South American Section)
of the Departamento de Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation
Department - LN) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General
Directorate of Intelligence - DGI). In March 1964, he visited
British Guiana. Source belicves that GORRIZ was a member of the

United States Army prior to 1959.

2. GORRIZ was described as having been born about 1934 and
being five feet eight inches tall.1,2,3,4,5,6

Headquarters Comments .

1. According to information acquired ir September 1961 from an
untested source who was formerly a G-2 member in the Cuban
consular service, the co-ordinator farthe 26th of July Movement
in Cuba was Gines GORRIN, who traveled frequently to New
York. GORRIN was the emissary between Cuba and SANCHEZ,
President of the Movement in New York who had offices at the

Only Hotel Belvedere and the newspaper Libertad.

SECRET eaocon

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE Tow Tatar Travy Tae “Tse Ba Toc T
REP_CINCLANT CINCSO_# I&NS__ : :

-
3
0
a
Q
a

cS fSCI-316/01231-6|

Samm
4s

7SA 7 (C1), WE 1 (2),.CI 4, RID 1



iad : : SECRE.
NO FOREIGN DISSEN CSCI-316/01231-64

=2- zt
Pe Teena ae eee uauaiee
tha ines: ‘astromafi, a Cuban, had been granted a visa for

Jamaica. GORRIZ was to attend the Caribbean Games and stay on to
act for Cuban Consul HERRERA who was on vacation.

In a report dated 3 July 1963, ‘it was stated that Guines GORRIZ
was an ex-United States citizen who was now a "Castro man." At the
2this report he was being transferred by the Castro government
TINDER to MINREX which he was to represent in Jamaica. GORRIZ
was born about 1933 and was single.

In a report dated 19 July 1963, an untested source said that Gines _
Silvio GORRIZ Castroman was one of the group of eighteen Cuban

rilots, groand-crew personnel, and air traffic control personnel

aaich arrived in British Guiana on the tanker "Cuba" _wi ked

in Georgetown on 16 July 1963. In this same report
2y Jsaid that GORRIZ was an employce wt cae teoen wren uban Ministry

An untested source in a report dated 25 September 1963, stated that
on 19 September 1963, a Bristol Brittania belonging to Empresa
Consolada Cubana de Aviacion landed in British Guiana and on board
the aircraft was Gines Silvio GORRIZ-Castroman, a trainee. GORRIZ
was born on 3 November 1932 in Habana, Cuba, and carried crew y

certificate 659 which was issued on 14 November 1962. :
ya a report dated 9 April 1964, stated
that-Gines astroman, a Cuban who arrived in British Guiana
for two days on 17 and 18 March 1964, ostensibly as cargomaster on
tho "Cuba" to supervise the unloading of Fuel oil, had visited

British Guiana on two previous occasions, July and September 1963.

GORRIZ was identified as a Cuban Intelligence Servico agent.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
