“\t04-10192-10246| : (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Noo. T tee BP oe.

-
CONMIYUS OFFICIALS chy

Ssicy

“SPORT MURS. 3 OEL-35,403

Plo: ZBISLAIN, Larroit 21 May 1963

OS.
‘be CRIFFITES

REPO?
APP2O7E>

Ts otf

—— Washington. ney

SY:

Caracas 2

Enbassy, London 2

. Registry
: Vans 29 833 i
Toy Rel oases,

HAL W024 AD COLILIS :

(Snore Porenr: “This report will presumably have been received by
- your H.Q. from our representative in Washington,"

Sse corpse.

JS OFFICIALS OnLy

‘ !?-2o ~ 29

py


DATE OF INFORMATION. :

SOURCE *
(celiability, scoesa,
conssiousness)

REMARKS

DISTRIBUTION:

DI-9-Yl
0:19 - 320-3

\y . SECRET =O mg . .
CX REPORT
No. 162/756/0-59
DAIE: ath May 1963
CUBA eae

‘ Oprorosed attacks by exile leadere

Current

Regular source probably reliable quoting
SoH WSRSRP Rete

Tia rerort will prosumably have been received
by your HeQe from our representative in
Wash{agton,

8 bvuty asl

Satay of terms cverleah

20th “May 1963
SECRET

i /9- /29-La-


Df ?- GI-3 i

» SECRET.
Roiu-§

Fropoded attaoxs by onto Lenders

Armaléo SHUSRARP, @ loader of the Yenetuslan branch of the
Ousan 02120 Popular Revolutioniry Kovenent (W.R.P.), o124med on
16th May that W.R.Po, ALPHA 68 and Becond ESCANBRAY Frond. ave
Joined forova to promte attacks against Soviets targets ia Cubase
Q. A Oubdan exile ship with a ccaplenent of 15 to 80 mon 18 now
a0 ee for thie purpose. i :
8. Tie operation 18 to be tho firet of @ ceries of ragde by
ALPHA 66 and Second gSCAHBRAY Front under the ccamnd of dloy
OUTTGERS Wenoyoe .
4. a@xtlo strength consists of this ons @ launches operated
fron three unidentified Caribbean tages and supplied from a similir

_ Bain baso called “mee Z3PsRARZA", All these are.outside the

Tnited States. : Me giles also hope to replace @ other launches

‘ghtoh have been seiRed by the United states.
