# 104-10256-10268

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10256-10268

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

EVES 3MLY

I. ENTRY INTO DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS

A. BACKGROUND

Five men were arrested by the Washington Metropolitan

Police at 2:10 a.m. on 17 June 1972, after having been

discovered breaking into the Democratic National Fiead-

quarters at the Watergate in Washington, D.C. The five

men had cameras and rather sophisticated bugging equip-

ment. Although the suspects initially used aliases during

the police interrogation, they were identified as Messrs.

James Walter McCord, JI.; Bernard L. Barker; Frank

Anthony Sturgis; Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga; and

Virgilio Ramon Gonzales-Rosabel. The Watergate incident

has continued to receive extensive publicity, and there is

suspicion that. a sixth person was directly involved in the

illegal entry.

B. PRIMARY FIGURES

1. James Walter McCord, JI.

MI. James W. McCord, Jx., a former Agent of the

• Federal Bureau of Investigation, served as a Staff

Employee of the Agency from 22 August 1951 until

his retirement on 31 August 1970. At the time of his

retirement, he was a GS-15, Security Officer. He

has since set up his private investigative organization

known as McCord Associates, and in early 1972, he

was named Security Coordinator for the National

Committee for the Re-election of President Nixon.

2. Bernard L. Barker

Mr. Bernard L. Barker, a former Captain in the U.S.

Air Force, was born in Cuba of American-bora parents,

and he began cooperating with the Agency in 1959. He

was hired on a contract basis in April 1960, and was

used primarily to report on Cuban exile activities. Mr.

Barker was terminated by the Agency on 31 July 1966,

to accept employment in private industry.

MS 09V

.."

---

## Page 2

3.

4.

5.

DES ON V

Frank Anthony Sturgis

Mr. Frank Anthony Sturgis, who has used numerous

aliases, formerly served in the U.S. Marine Corps

and the U.S. Army in the 1940's. As of 1959, Nir.

Sturgis was a Captain in the Cuban Army, but later

became disillusioned with Castro, became a soldier

of fortune, and in 1961 headed an organization called

the International Anticommunist Brigade, which he

claimed had 5, 000 members. Mi. Sturgis was never

recruited by the Agency, but has been associated with

Mr. Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga, an Agency

contact since the 1960's.

Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga

MI. Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga, an American

citizen of Cuban birth, was recruited by the Agency in

1961. The project to which he was assigned was

terminated in 1969, and he has since been on a part-.

time retainer to report on the Cuban exile community,

receiving $100. 00 a month. Prior to 1969, he received

$8, 100.00 per year for his full-time operational activity.

It is to be noted that MI. Martinez is a real estate

partner of Mr. Bernard L. Barker.

Virgilio Ramon Gonzales-Rosabel

Mr. Virgilio Ramon Gonzales-Rosabel, who has used

various aliases, is not on record in WH Division/DDP,

or any other component of the Agency. The Federal

Bureau of Investigation has been advised that the Central

Intelligence Agency has no record of MI. Gonzales-Rosabel.

C.

THE WHITE HOUSE

Everette Howard Hunt, Jr.

Nir. Everette Howard Hunt, Jr., a former War Correspondent

and free lance writer, was previously affiliated with the Office

of Strategic Services, and he was employed as an Agency Staff

EYES ONLY

BEGRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

BIES ONLY

Employee from 8 November 1949 until his retirement

on 30 April 1970, when he commenced private eiploy-

ment with Robert R. Mullen and Company, a firm

which has been utilized by the Agency for cover purposes.

A news article of July 1971 indicated that Mr. Hunt joined

the White House Staff asja Consultant to President Nixon

preparatory to the President's visit to the Peoples

Republic of China. Much of the recent publicity in the

case has focused on Mr. Hunt, who was interviewed by the

Federal Bureau of Investigation on 17 June 1972. He

admitted that he had written a check to Mr. McCord but

invoked his Constitutional rights on all other questions.:

On the White House issue, previous reference was made

to the employment of Mr. James W. McCord by the

Committee for the Re-election of President Nixon.

D. CURRENT AGENCY STAFE EMPLOYEES

1. James Corbin Fitchett

James Corbin Fitchett entered on duty with the

Agency in early 1952, and is currently a GS-13,

Security Officer. His wife, Kathryn Fitchett, is

also an Office of Security employee. Scheduled

to retire from the Agency on 30 June 1972, MI.

Fitchett made it known to Mr. McCord in May 1972,

that he would be available to work with the Committee

for the Re-election of President Nixon, and he was

offered a position as a paid Security Officer. Mr.

McCord initially wanted to utilize him as of 15 June

1972, but MI. Fitchett requested a polygraph inter-

view to substantiate his claim that he was not involved

in the Watergate incident. Polygraph testing on

20 June 1972, was completely favorable.

2.

Ralph Orlando True

Ralph Orlando True entered on duty with the Agency

on l December 1950, and is currently a GS-15, Secu-

rity Officer.

Scheduled to retire from the Agency on

MES DILY

SECRET

---

## Page 4

=-;.

EYES ONLY

30 June 1972, Mr. True planned on assuming a

position with McCord Associates or an affiliate

security unit. It has been established that Mr.

True was in Mr. McCord's office at the Com-

mittee for the Re-election of President Nixon on

16 June 1972, the day before the Watergate

incident. • MI. True denies any direct involve-

ment in the case.

03

3. (Donald Read Heath, Jr.)

(Donald Read Heath, Jr? entered on dufy with the

Agency in mid-1952, and is currently a GS-14,

Operations Officer assigned to WH Division/DDP.

He has been acquainted with Mi. Everette Howard

Hunt,

JI., through the years, and he developed an

acquaintance with Mr. James W. McCord, Jr., at

Montgomery Community College in the fall of 1971,

when Mr. McCord was teaching an industrial

security course at the educational institution.

MI.

03 Heath's)association with Mr. McCord developed

through his interest in a young Chilean protege,

Juan Rigoberta Rulz Villegas, who formerly worker

is to be noted that Mr. (Heath) arranged for Juan RUIZ

Villegas to acquire an office position at McCord

Associates while the young Chilean contzpued to live.

in Mr: Heath's home, drive MI.(Heath's)vehicle, and

attend school:

03

4. Harry Thayer Mahoney

Harry Thayer Mahoney entered on duty with the Agency

on 30 March 1951, and is currently a GS-14, Operations

Officer assigned to WH Division/DDP. Scheduled to

retire from the Agency on 30 June 1972, MI. Mahoney,

a former polygraph examiner in the Office of Security,

is acquainted with Messrs. Ralph O. True and Everette

Howard Hunt, Jr. The Office of Personnel Outplace-

ment Assistance Branch referred MI. Mahoney to MI.

McCord and he was interviewed for a position at his

offices for the Commiitee for the Re-election of

President Nixon, or or about 10 May 1972. Mr.

Mahoney was ofifTià a position with McCord Associales.

SEA ONE:

---

## Page 5

1400000

DES ONLY

McCord Associates has an approved job resume,

but Mr. Mahoney has made no decision on taking

the McCord offcI.

E. FORMER AGENCY STAFF EMPLOYEES

1. Therese Mae Shea

Mrs. Therese Mae Shea served as a GS-07, Staff

Employee of the Agency from 15 June 1948 until

her resignation from maternity leave on 20 April

1956. Her husband, William Francis Shea, was

also with the Agency until February 1971. Mrs.

Shea has been working as a secretary to Mr. James

W. McCord at McCord Associates in Rockville,

Maryland, and she quite naturally has extensive

knowledge of Agency contacts with the private

investigative firm. She knows Mr. Donald Read 03

Heath, Jr.), and is aware of his ties with Juan

Rigoberto RUIZ Villegas.

2. Dr. Edward Mansfield Gunn

DI. Edward M. Gunn served with the Agency from

13 June 1955 until 31 May 1971, and he was a GS-17,

Deputy Director of Medical Services, at the time of

his retirement. DI. Gunn was interviewed by an

Office of Security representative on 19 June 1972, and

discussed in some detail his involvement with the

Institute for Protection and Safety Studies, Incorporated,

which is affiliated with McCord Associates and occupies

space in the tame fi. Co on d972,

and he denies having any knowledge of the Watergate

incident.

3. DI. Jacob Victor Golder

DI. Jacob V. Golder, a former OSS employee, served

with the Agency from 3 January 1955 until 16 April

1971, and he was a GS-15, Chief of Psychological

Services Staff/Office of Medical Services, at the time of

EVES 3W2

?.!

5

---

## Page 6

4-00000

ENES DIY

his retirement. He is still being utilized by the

Agency on a contract basis at the SECRET level.

DI. Golder has not yei been interviewed (as of

23 June 1972) but indications are that his ties to

Mr. McCord are similar to those of DI. Gunn

mainly through his participation as a Consultant-

Instructor at the Institute for Protection and Safety

Studies, Incorporated.

4. William Francis Shea

William F. Shea served with the Agency from July

1951 until February 1971, and was a GS-14,

Intelligence Officer with the Office of Strategic

Research, DDI at the time of his resignation. He

had unsatisfactory fitness reporiss resigned in lieu

of termination; and'may not be too favorably disposed

towards the Agency. As previously indicated, his

wife, Therese Mae Shea, works as a secretary at

McCord Associates. The Office of Personnel referred

Mr. Shea to. McCord Associates in 1971, and Dr.

Edward M. Gunn indicated that Mi. Shea is affiliated

with the Institute for Protection and Safety Studies, Inc.

5.

Walter Edward Brayden

Walter Edward Brayden served with the Agency from

2 February 1948 until 31 October 1969, and was a

GS-13, Intelligence Officer, assigned to Operational

Services/Central Cover Staff/DDP, at the time of his

retirement. Mr. Brayden was interviewed by an

Office of Security representative on 20 June 1972,

when he indicated that he has been employed by McCord

Associates in minor security duties during the last few

months. In April 1972, he served as a guard for Mrs.

Martha Mitchell on a trip to Chicago, and he espected

to work on a security survey of the Hotel Fontainbleau

in Miami in late June 1972.

SES ONLY

---

## Page 7

14-00000

'...

.. .

George Theodore Stanton

George Theodore Stanton served with the Agency

from 4 August 1947 to 8 January 1972, and was a

GS-14, Operations Officer, assigned to the Counier

Intelligence Staff/DDP, at the time of his retirement.

DI. Edward M. Gunn indicated that Mi. Stanion has

been serving as a Consultant to the Institute for

Protection of Safety Studies, Incorporaied.

7. Louis Edgar Sherrard

Louis Edgar Sherrard served with the Agency from

2 July 1952 until 31 January 1969, when he resigned.

At the time of his resignation, he was a GS-13, Secu-

rity Officer assigned to the Security Research

Staff.

MI. Sherrard's employment background centers on

industrial and physical security, and he resigned from

the Agency with the stated intention of taking a position

with Bestline Products, Incorporated, of San Jose,

California.

There have been recent "rumors" that Mr.

Sherrard is in some way aifiliated with McCord

Associates, but there are no specifics on this.

8. Ross Ward Lambert

Ross Ward Lambert, a former OSS employee, served

with the Agency from 11 January 1965_to 9 August

1971, and was a GS-13, Contract Employee assigned

to the Special Operations Division/DDP, at the time of

his resignation. Mr. Lambert served extensively in

Far East Division overseas posts, and there was a

previous security interest in the case because of his

daughter's involvement in activities of the Students for

a Democratic Society (SDS). The Office of Personnel

referred MI. Lambert to McCord Associates but be

took a job elsewhere.

BEB VILY

SPOREI

---

## Page 8

14-00000

9. James Louis Baker

James Louis Baker served with the Agency from

2 July 1952 until 24 June 1972, when his contract

was allowed to expire. Mi. Baker, a CS-12,

Operations Officer assigned to Special Operations

Division/DDP, was in Saigon, South Vietnam,

from April 1968 until 24 July 1971, when he was

returned to Headquarters because of serious marital 99

and related medical) probiems involving his wife.

Divorce proceedings continued through early 1972,

and his case has been monitored by the Office of

Personnel. Subjeci was referred to McCord

Associates by the Office of Personnel, but he

acquired a position with the Bureau of Narcotics and

Dangerous Drugs, to be effective as of 26 June 1972.

His application may possibly be on file at McCord

Associates.

F. OTHER CIA CONNECTIONS

1. Robert Foster Bennett

Robert Foster Benneit, son of U.S. Senator Wallace

Bennett of Utab, is Direcior and Executive Vice-

-President of Robert R. Mullen and Company, which

has been utilized by the Agency for commercial.

cover purposes. Mi. Bennett has been interviered

by members of the news media because of intense

interest in MI. Everette Howard Hunt, JI., a former

Agency Staff Employee working for the same firm. A

Covert Security Approval was issued on 19 March

1971 for MI. Bennett's use in providing cover for an

Agency overseas asset. The Executive Director-

Comptroller and the Director of Central Intelligence

were advised at the time of the approval.

DYES ONLY

SECRET

i15g

---

## Page 9

14-00000.

1. .

CHET

BER DALE

Juan Rigoberto RUIZ Villegas

Juan Rigoberto RulL Villegas was hired by Mr.

03 Donald R. Heath, Jr. as a Covert Asset ir

Santiago, Chile and continued to be used in Chile)

from June 1969 to June 1971. RUIZ came to the

United Stätes in August 1971, became something of

03a (Heath) protege, and resided in MI. (Heath's)gome

from 19 August 1971 to 21 April 1972. RUIZ

attended Montgomery Community College, became

acquainted with Mi. James W. McCord at that

educational institution, and later acquired

temporary (and illegal) employment at McCord, =

Associates as a sort of caretaker. Mi. (Heath also

assisted Mr. McCord in arranging for the payment

of RUIZ, a Chilean National, and Mr.(Heath)at one

point got RUIZ a part-time job with Mr. Glenn I.

Sedam, Head of the Districi of Columbia Committee

to Re-elec: Richaid Nixon.

G. COVER ORGANIZATIONS

1. Robert R. Mullen and Company

Robert R. Mullen and Company has been utilized by

the Central Cover Stafi since 1963, and since that

time a total of eight people of the Mullen Company

have been cleared or made witting of Agency ties.

MI. Mullen has provided sensitive cover support

overseas for Agency employees and he was

instrumental in the formation of the Cuban Freedom

Committee.

Mi. Edward Naeher, Mullen's Book-

keeper and Accountant, is a retired CIA Finance

Officer.

As of 1 May 1970, Mi. Everette Howard

Hunt,

JI., who had jusi retired from the Agency,

ecame a legitimate employee of Mi. Mullen. He i

ware of at least tvo present cover placements unde:

Robert R. Muller and Company. The Federal Bureau

of Investigation was informed of this Agency connection

by memorandum dated 21 June 1972.

EVES ONLY

LEONE!

9

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SEUNET

EVES ONLY

2. Interprogres

Interprogres is a new

subsidiary of the Mullen

Company formed in 1971, as a result of contacts

developed at the Zagreb Trade Fair in Yugoslavia.

It is a pilot operation aimed at expanding East-

West commercial relationships. At least two

have tangential tasks of

promoting the acceptance of this company as a

Mullen subsidiary. The Federal Bureau of •

Investigation was advised of the Agency connection

by memorandum dated 21 June 1972, which covered

Robert R. Mullen and Company.

3. General Foods Corporation

General Foods Corporation, headquartered in the

White Plains, New York area, is a client of Robert

R. Mullen anú Company. The General Foods

24

Coxporation is providing cover support tol

Over the years, because of person-

nel changes, sixteen officials have been cleared on

certain aspects of our interests, but they have not

been informed of our use of Robert R. Mullen and

Company. The Federal Bureau of Investigation was

informed of our

Ed the General Foods

Corporation by memorandum dated 21 June 1972.

H. RELATED AGENCY CHECKS

The Federal Bureau of Investigation and/or the news media

have mentioned the following individuals or organizations in

the course of the investigation of the Watergate incident.

Agency records are either negative or contain no information

directly pertinent to the Watergate incident:

Association of National Advertisers

Association of National Advertisers was mentioned

by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as having

offices with Robert R. Mullen and Company. The

Bureau was advised "no record".

BIES ONLY

SECRET

31000

---

## Page 11

4-00000

SECUET

IVES DILY

2.

"CIF"

"CIF", without further details, was mentioned

by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as having

offices with Robert R. Mullen and Company.

The Bureau was advised "no record" on the basis

of available information.

3.

Ameritas, Incorporated

Ameritas, Incorporated is said to be a Florida

real estate firm and several individuals listed

employment with this organization when registering

at the Watergate. The Bureau was advised "no

record".

4. George Leonard

George Leorard, 1601 Washington Avenue, Kansas

City, Kansas, registered at the Watergate. The

Federal Bureau of Investigation was advised "not

identifiable".

5.

Edward Warner

Edward Warner, 143 West 73rd Street, New York

City, New York, registered at the Watergate.. The

Federal Bureau of Investigation was advised "not

identifiable".. The Federal Bureau of Investigation

later listed the person as Edward I. Warren, of

the same address, and we advised "go record".

The press has speculated that "E. Warren" may

be an alias of MI. James W. McCord.

6.

Paul Jose Piedra

Paul Jose Piedra registered at the Watergate. The

Federal Bureau of Investigation was advised "no

record".

7. Joe Granada

Joe Granada registered at the Watergate.

The Federal

Bureau of Invest archipes advised "no record".

LILS

SCONCI

1]]

---

## Page 12

14-00000

RES OILY

8.

Michacl Douglas Caday

Michael Douglas Caddy (ala: Douglas Caddy) is a

lawyer with an office at 1250 Connecticut Avenue,

Northwest, Washington; D.C. He is mentioned in

the press as an atiorney who was called into the

case by the wife of MI. Bernard L. Barker, one of

the primary figures in the Watergate incident.

On 21 June 1972, the Federal Bureau of Investigation

was advised that Caddy has never been employed by

or associated with the Agency in any capacity.

9. McCord Associates

No Agency file reference located on McCord Associates.

10. Institute for Protection and Safety Studies, Inc.

Institute for Protection and Safety Studies, Inc. is

affiliated indirectly with McCord Associates and

has offices at the same Rockville, Maryland address.

11.

Joseph A. Rafferty, Jr.

Joseph A, Rafferty, Jr., a trial lawyer who was_calied

into the case by Mr. Barker's attorney, Douglas Caddy.

No record.

12. Miguel A. Suarez

Miguel A. Suarez is mentioned in the press as a Cuban

exile and lawyer and one of the "links to the Republican

Party!'. He was listed by the press as a self-styled

"Nixonian" who represented Florida's Cuban community

in dealing with former GOP Governor Claude R. Kirk, Jx.

He is listed as having an office with Mr. Barker at 955

First Street, Southwest, Miami, Florida, and is said to

be a business partner of MI. Barker. Allegedly the

Federal Bureau of Investigation planned on interviewing

him. He was of Agency interest between 1960 and 1965

in connection with propaganda activities aimed toward

Cuba.

BIES ONLY

SEGRET

---

## Page 13

4-00000

.....

BES ONLY

13. Marie-Elene Barker Moffett

Marie-Elene Barker Moffett is mentioned in the

press as the daughter of Vir. Bernard L. Barker.

Thoughi was given to releasing Mr. Barker to her

custody. No record.

14. Alberto Carricarte

Alberto Carricarte is mentioned in the press as the

law partner of Miguel A. Suarez and Secretary of

Ameritas, Incorporated. No record.

15. All State Investment Fund, S.A..

• All State Investment Fund, S.A., is mentioned in

the press as the parent company of Ameritas,

Incorporated. It reportedly was established in

Panama by Miguel A. Suarez to engage in ieal

estate investment activities in the Caribbean area.

No record

I.

BIOGRAPHIC SUMMARIES

Complete biographic summaries have been prepared on those

current Staff Employees, former Staff Employees, and

Contract Personnel who were in any way connected with the-

Watergate incident, McCord Associates, the Institute for

Protection and Safety Studies, Inc., or cover organizations.

J.

ADDENDUM

Mr. Ralph Orlando True was interviewed by the Federal Bureau

of Investigation on 23 June 1972, and he furnished a statement

covering his association with Mi. James W. McCord and

possible future employment by McCord Associates. The Bureau

was following up on Mr. Irue's Agency telephone extension.

EYES ONLY

SEGRET

13

---

