{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

re
“{104-10181-10007)
= — z
eo
S-E-C-a-E-1
z
0099 RUIZ. GUILLERMO 019-005-030
: Sex M 03C-06992
fad cit Cuaa + 205AN08
PRESENTLY VICE MINISTER OF FOREIGN COMMERCE RE Fal
: ACTIVITIES FOR CUAN AUTHORITIES Po
oe SS2LOCATOR DATA: ORDER FROM IP/CFS - GC=b2
; APERTURE CARD AVAILABLE : :
ao 06C-06992 26 FEB 68 03626863 :
‘@ 9020 RUIZ» GUILLERMO cone : 201-0729530,
: ~ Sex Ho - : : Osma-30162401 |. ~~
: CIT CuBaA : : ‘O4JUNT6 : -

VICE MINISTER FOR LIGHT INDUSTRY “IN MINCEX. RES re - Hee
CUBA’. INFO'FROM DEBRIEFING NOTES OF SLCAPRICEs Le
S@ELOCATOR OATA: FILE PERMANENTLY CHARGED T9 LA/C/OPy 395317 » 92299 20/06775

(21 SEP-76 09438195 -

“OSHA-30162- :
‘OOLL PEREZ REQS, ORESTES >.> ~. 2” ‘ Pest 201-03113339 =
SEX M998 19JULL6 POB CUBAy LAS VILiAS” TYPE NAME T
CIT CuBA RCD DATE 61
REF WAVE-00373+ O2 JAN 62 at * is
KES 2 -CORReCARO WAS -RIOS, ORESTES : i = . cere
SSSLOCATOR DATA: cores FROM. IP/CFS - GC-52 . - -
31 DEC 65 00678215. e : -
PAC
KB809.-- ; ae 218933
S-E-C-R2-E-T £2 IMPOET CL BY 054979



OO1? PEPER, SUILLERMO SEPT,

SEX M 098 C35 POB CUBAy ORIENTEs HOLGUIN
Cit Cusa CCC GOVT. EMPL

< CUBAs URTENTEs YATERA DSE CHIEF YATERA MOUNTAIN

ZONE

SSSLOCATOR DATA: GROER FROM IP/CFS = GC-52
APERTURE CARD AVAILABLE :
O80-00485 =~ AL MAR TL .93608966

OO13. PEREZ» GUiLLERMD - ace site
a SEX M Ei : :
SOOLOCATOR DATA: ORDER FROM IP/CFS - GC-52
APERTURE CARD AVAILASLE

HCS-O2087-.-. —- 1a NOV 72 02787539

0014 PEREZ» GUILLERMO at
SEX M POB NICA
CIT NICA cones rms E Occ LABOR
< NICARAGUA ATTENDED SECOND MEETING OF THE CUSCA IN
"COSTA RICAy SAN JUSE FORM 19-21 MAR 709 REPRESENTED
CGT<I AT CONFERENCE
SSSLOCATOR DATA: OROER FROM IP/CFS - GC-52
APERTURE CARD AVAILABLE
ee 30 APR 70. 02698572

HRS-04536

---CONTINUED--= KBB09

019-005-030
Da0-06485
L2FEBTT

Fal

PS

200-007-292—
HCS~O2017

018-004-109
HRS-04536 ia
16APR70
P2

S-E-C-R-€-1 2 IMPOET CL 3Y 0549779

PAG.
218933



ee bees a sssncesze = - - CSAERC-8=8-5
. a ‘
Oo21 PEREZy GUILLERKU 056-004-00t
e PANAMA JULY 48 SER=44
S22LOCATOR DATA: ORDER FROM IP/CES - GC-52
056-004~001-44 OL JAN 58 97199467 - .
“gg «0022: PEREZ, GUILLERMO 053-004-102
SEX M . OCC SHOEMAKER HNMA-06672A01
< USSR ENROLLED AT CADRE SCHOOL IN USSR 2 OSJUNTL-- Ww. :

- saree a P2
#98LOCATOR DATA: ORDER FROM IP/CFS - GC-52 : Se

APERTURE CARD AVAILABLE
24 FEB 72 02717361

HNMA-04672 :

019-006-095704 ~

PEREZ» GUILLERMO - ~
SEX -- tee . UFAA-01222A01
CIT Cusa : 21AUG69 -
< CUBA ARMY CAPT ASSIGNED TO USE IN GUANTANAMO, Plaz.. : a
| ORTENTE ae : ee pre i
: FORMERLY: SER >19-5-3/4y ‘ 7 eersesaeel
 @ SSLOCATOR DATA: OROER FROM IP/CFS:- GC=52 : :
i UFAA-01222 27 MAR 70 02154976, | ieee ;
ot f eect :
@ ee
8 : : .
® ; ier
1 r) i is
a) E : :
* ===CUNTINUED--~ «B809
S-E-C-R-E-T E2 IMPOET CL BY 054979



S~E-C-R-E-1

9024 PEREZ, GUILLERMD
SEX M

FORMERLY: 05 NO OATEs SER NO FSNy
*SSLOCATOR, DATA: ORDER FROM IP/CFS = GC-s2

HCP-00530 - 13 JUL 60 05901917

e
e
Cael

© 0625 perez, anestes .
Sees TREASURER OF THE CUBAN LIBERATION MOVEMENT
: 26> CHICAGOs ILte
6: fia eet
- + S32LOCATOR OaTa: OROER FROM IP/CFS - Ge-52.
e° 0FB-04590 : 19 AUG 58 06152269
©. 0026 perez, onestes fe
TREASURER OF THE CUBAN LIBERATION MOVEMEAT OF JuLy
e 269 CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
a.) *S°LOCATOR DATA: ORDER FROM LP/CES - GC-S2
. APERTURE CARD AVAILABLE
€ O8F-04590 31 DEC 58 06174810
7
e. es z _
]
)
~--CONTINUED--~ xBa09

S~E-C-2-€-1

009-004-134 fa
HOP-00530A01 =...
08auGSS mee

SER-8 . -~
SER 8

100-009-012.
OFB-04590 --
O9JUNSB- -
es :

100-009-012
OBF-04590 - .. ere a
O95UNS8 : - noses
Ps : ste

E2 IMPDET CL ay 054979



032 RUIZ

a SEX M 093 C17 POR HOND TYPE NAME “A”
: CIT HONDO GCC. TATLOR RCO DATE ST
REF HHT -O2131¢ 19 -MAY 59 OCC: CODE CRAF ae

Ae, SAMUEL MBR

RES HUNIURAS 3 OF ASUILES MMUNTSE

bed PARTY TRAVELLED TO USSR ANC COMMUNIST CHINA
SSELOCATOR GATA: ORDER FRUM IP/CFS -- GC-S2 - . -
a 12 JUN 69 90210957 - . 5

"9033 RUIZ. eee a - -201-07464018 |
SEX M pasrerrtsaaeierais 1 TYPENAME & Steet
4 REF. MANA-O4TITe-16 FES. 6% RCO-DATE 64
: RES’ NICARAGUA 2 OF RUIZ SiLdAy JOSE CIT NICARAGUAs : .

OCC NICARAGUAN’ SECURITY AGENT. IN CONTACT w/OFFICE OF poeta . ~
FRANKLIN. Ae WHEELOCK GARCIA. /201-240990% DOI FES 64
@CSLOCATOR DATA: ORDER FROM IP/CES - GC-S2

: 3L DEC 65. 90219949

201-00045282

0034 RUIZ :
SEX M 038 O90CT20. - POB HONDO TYPE NAVE A
CIT HOND i RCO DATE 54
REF HHT -O21149 30 APR 69 -
2 RES HONDURAS a OF DIONISIG» RAMUS-BEJARAND

SSSLOCATOR DATA: ORDER FROM IP/CFS - GC-S2 -
17 May 69 00210893

END OF REPLY - 0034 RECORDS LISTED

* -=-CONTINUED--- K8309 : 213893
S-E-C-R-E-T EZ -IMPDET CL 3Y 054979



_ procs sonseer

poe. syweot_e

OSMA JOUVE 0709530

Sh OBPRICLST

TatuaTiOn

Secarerce/y 7 S91

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Alas cite doc. dis(ribetion, Disesa. No.

RUIZ , Orestes Lfuutleorne Be
My af 1909 end & DE) egpere . Cote
iam vA “Gillam . © heewns' fi Ae ake ~
pd eval and nel (Crritly Gtramuncete
Gels PSP. a eapatte Motiligtive pores,
he 43 poet. eau hey peeclrgecnl

HY Lentes.

Indtcate The Subj:
201 Fille No.

ct, Project Or
Which This

Gooner oF a0 (Laat. Pivets wiedlep
201- FBS IC

KUW2 , Cyteeles Seu kletme Perey
SECRET ER IMPOR Cu Oy

reer



if

|

|
! |
: { \
H |
\ ' | :
|
! i \
1
H i i
4 }

4 H

‘
i

t

i

ui

'
1 He !

i
i

i iF
i
| !
\
! i
' i!
' i

| :
i !
| i
! i
i al |
| i
i n i
eee
eee eae
\ Hee =
| “|
| : i H
| i ‘
t t
: \ '
\ oa
i i
: i
\ ; '

| !

if |



rem erige eentnenn

i
Hl
i
4









Cvacuatrow

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

¢ PEKEZ, GUILLERMO
201-735296
StX M 008 2°

cir?
occ 2.
OGIe

NAME APPEARED ‘ON CUUAN WATCHLIST INCORPORATING

INTEL AND AUDIO TECHS.

aul .

200-009-056
OSMA~28783A01
09 AUG 73
P24

susstcr oF 201 (Leet, Fleet, widdle)

SECRET



EXTRACT AND nos REFERENCE

TROGIR _ITENTIFICATION

Teste

GF wecgan Cory

‘SOURCE INFORMATION

‘souect caveronva Toate oF

dee. dletribetlon, Disaco. Wo., oe. - if applicable)

TEAT OF EXTRACT (Aloo ef

: RUIZ PEREZ

ne o Area
Ss SPAIN, MAOR, Tacs REP;
LY

; zu “133296 + ORESTEs. SUILLERNO
008 2
‘ad : 7 100-092.
CIT cue, i 316 ~0159te9
OCC CHaRce 09 JUN 72

R 720616115)

+

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which Tats
Form Is To Be Filed.

‘SuBsECH OF 401 (Lasts Fleet, middle)

20L- 7 BS

SECRET"



eee

AERANN DERSONALITI NS.

SCURCe eayetonee cane or io. ° tvacvatien

t i! > :
TOA OF UAIRACT (Alive «ike doc. distribution, Disvem: Rory ete. > Tt applicadiey
SOURCE: ecto iteatttite 7
_ PHOTO/NAME IDENTIFICATIONS . 7 :

: NAME:

PHOTO NUMBER: . 024266

27 Cet. 7h

DATE SHOW

+ REMARKS? proto/name not

The Subject, Project 0
201 File No. In Which Teis
Form Is To Ze Filed.

‘Supster OF 201 (Last, Fiset, waddte)

201+ 739593



_ [Pee suever

a SOURCE INFORMATION
SOURCE caYPTonye DATE OF imro,

EVALUATION

TT oppiteabiey

53655 201-366816
SEX M one ? OIRA~554 340) i
tir? 30 MAY 72 ‘
occ 2

ca

MIN Counsetor| lena

R 7206090699

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Whish This
Form Is To Be Filed.

sunstct oF 200 (Leat, Fivat, wicdley

TT

SECRET



eNom piled

SECRET.

Sas

Spee cece ai Date_er 890

ses wee

SOURCE _INFORWATION.

evacuate

‘sousct Cavetonve iz are OF Ino.

Feat OF EXTRACT (Alee ele doc. dletributlon.

Won, oe. > 40 oppiteebley

RUIZ PEREZ,
201-735256
SEX M 008 ?-

cit?
occ ?

ORESTES GUILLERMO

565-606-007
DEF -20075

16 JUN 71
DEFENSE.
2

DEPARTEC SPAIN ON 16 SEPT 70

R 7108040954

Indicate The Subject, Project: Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

Five,

wisdte)

“unter oF 10) (Lewty

SECRET



SECRET ~

bthen Catted bn

Tove Cav Tomo.

To OrsstwtwateO te

"RUIZ PEREZ, ORESTES GUILLERNO eae :

201-735296 201-749651

SEX M 00B 2 i UFAA=02925A0L
19 APR 71

CIT CUBA rf P3

occ 2

TOENTIFIEC BY SUaJECT OF 201~ 749651

\' R 7105030375
740) :
)S

THeN

\ Av
FILE IN 201-23529¢6

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

SOS, B67 wer ceevies aos



Ram Bil ied tay

wot Ft sneer no geepeg”

= RI FILE NO,
¥OISPATEW ON SOURCE Go. gvunOL NO. [ao BATE
7 Founee mel Dare oF *] CNGaTION
reed at Toare PROCESS, for Or sstwimate im Pra bare

co
arrrtanese

»_PERTINENT_INFORMAT [ON

———___. re
RUIZ PEREZ, ORESTES GUILLERMO

2011-73529 201-276761 :
SEX M coe ? . UFAA~02626A01 i .
: 14 JAN 71 é
cIT?
ood . occ 2?
A OGI CFFICER - '

R 7101260931

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO;

Het SECRET. eae

tray B67 cee ronrveny eoreiees.



DOCUMENT TRANSFER AKO CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IOENTIFICATION —-

Joc? EF OOCUMENT,

oe

To BIaPATGH O® SOUREE DOE. svnaOL AD. [ar OATE

7 Foueet caveronve] a, OnTe OF al rer)

io. BrstGwwateo 1m Date

RUIZ PEREZ, ‘GUILLERMO

201-735296
: : 065-008-007
if SEX M 00B 2 OSMA-26609
Cina 22 OCT 70

d

FA : b
2 : R 7011090365 :

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FOO GG] vee resveows aovtiees. ‘SECRET



t Gdissesdassee eneeeeeett tend

_ mine

HAtraai

Reference: UFAA-2231

Headquarters agrees that the primary objective of
contact with AMAUTO-1 by a controlled person for sssessnent :
purposes, vas vell met. We wish to add, mordover, our appreciation
for a saosth job vith what could have been a difficult

“controlled asset. :

MISROFILMED
AUB 24 19/0

i 0. SER,
{_BOc, MicRO. $

Distribution:

|
sic a ‘
Ra wae > Pa ir ‘i !
: ition 19 Aus 1970 i
| |B 2Q01-steesy | UPAW-912 I
H i Ta as i
! SECRET . pee e eer po
; ine i
ean = HRT ae im
(14 aug 1970) Wi‘COG/OPS_Richard Whecler — pfd Ptria4
PB ererntTe am Scena
stribution: CROs Dat Loses er
baer tH & ai
=]#H “COG /OPS AC/WH'COG JL hee te Wesley L. dazbourne !

RAF



KURU HEE

wa

ec Ouest

[eataas

Paubeth | |
nae 4 | se Sbb we lLY

j i i both do/'a. Of ee, pb fl
bet baad sede belch baohe

= ae

a

|
lee | if
| Si etstanitie Unaiad Taian
a i.
iipeped iter uae joe
ps: saRiES SUEEA ET a

16. _ - aes
i ie RID FI

ROV- 23S 2 .

bane

la Aity FO UFAA 02231 i

SECRET

4 uo



[DISPATCH

ere Division

Chtet, Westar, Hout so

chief ef -Sknt lew, Madet ay cehtet 77

Chef of Station,

Erg t
C AAUI/Fol low-up Inseryicw with Alevander SAKO

fichow stout eineatwcs

NADSTO 1287, & June 1970

References: A.
AD Tb, & June 1970

Be WY

Action: FYI t :

1, Forwarded herewith fs a contact report from PACHASKIS on his follow-up
interview nf Alexander SAMKO (201-866054), which euncerns SAMKO"'s contact with
AMAUTO/1 (201-735296)"in Madrid. As can be seen froa the report, Station's
defensive briefing of SAMKO apparently. took effect and he has been éautious in
avoiding the mary suspietous characters that have agpeared since his trip to

Madrtd, t

2, The question. of hig writing to AMAUID/T was mentioned by SAMO, He was
rold that AMAUTO/1 wis back and we did nat know whan he would return to
Miamt Seltaves we should wait untl] AMAUTU/ retumg to

t€ ever.)
or seme other post tn the Free world, and then have SAMAD write to hin

"s nowly salf-dtscovernd James Bend talents
Tt also appears that our prisary objective, contact with
gsassmeut, has been met.

3. Vespite Ss.
enjoyed handling Mx.
AMAU'IU/I for a face to fa

Attachment:
Contact Report (b/w)

Distribution: é aera
3 - Chee, WD) Wace (19 dupl.) tye peg wine €/72
2 - Chief, EUR, ufact (one copy) b/w sess
2 - COS, Madrid, w/ace (ane copy) h/w wb Ltd

pate ys 6

‘CROSS REFERENCE TO ‘DEPATON SYMBOL AND WMO Tear

2231 | 5 dususr 1972

CASHIATION (em Pa moa
PO RET ii 739208

201 - 866554



cnt 29-guny 1970 ~~ Ges,

AUG?

H Contact Report on Alexander SANKO, on 28 July 1970,

i le On the morning of 28 July, I called Sam to check in-with hin.

t after. being away on T2Y for alzost 6 weexs. ‘He sounded a bit
: . Upset at not being ‘contacted during this period, so I dashed

! out to his Hollywood home to explain what had happened and set
him at ease,

2. it was plain té see that the trip had changed him. He 1g now
a bit presumptuous, cocky, and know it all James Sond. He told
me all.sorts of wild stories, about’ be{ng tailed in. Madrid "by
7,0f 8. 'Chivatos' (Castro agents," and leading them on long

Hab ~ "8 or 9 mile hikes through Macrid.* Castro ‘ageats were also
“watching" him on the day he was in Barcelona and on the short

layover his Pan Am plane’had in Lisbon on his way home. At no

time, however, was he molested by these “agents,”

j 3, The Castro surveillance continued -so Sam says- in Hollywood.
"About the second night after I got home," cs 14-15 June, a car

parked across the street and a little to the rear of his “house

Nafter it got dark." When Sam got into his car and went to the

gas station, the car -described as looking like a white Volkswagen,
without headlights on- followed Sam's car on his short trip in :
the neighborhood and back to -his home. He could not make out

the physical description of the driver of the Vw. He- has~never

seen this car again.

4+ The only other suspicious individual near his home, was “a ¢. 21,
4 thin man," (described as:about S-11 to 6 ft and 173 lbs; black
: hair; no distinguishing features visible; once wearing slacks and
white shirt, another time wearing a suit}. ‘This individual showed
up across the street from his home "just as the sun had gone down,
i several evenings during the first weex that = got home.” (ce. 14
vune) The man just walked past the q
and appeared: to have his car aro:
: could not identify the car oz anytt

his return San received several

5. “Again, during the first weex after
co when the phone

teleshone calls where no oné would answ
up, or the person calling would say, "socry, wro
has not experienced any other suspicious inéidenzs

week home on Spain. I should te that Sam does t. talk of
5

riin the vein of a paperback

these incidents with fear, but ra
detective story. :
: + Sam would not admit that he enj imsel? soméwhat in as
i a to: =, although he’ did nos yy that he stayed in a luxury hotel,
saw th @S anc even went to a night

ate as‘well as drank well
club, 211 on the house,
“know n"it was going to be lik
in the sane breath, he told
Spain in September.

Mit T1223)

Went so far as to say that if he
s, ZI never wo
iam" that he would be back
go again if we asked hin,

Por FILO 6

2



"(ith "Patctots"

“But, only to help sy-country.
¢4n we lose.)

fyipxtous to start some correspondence to liLan ‘.
illian" asked hin to.send hin some photos of Cape Keanedy
Sam wants to know “if'we want to supaly =
@ Cape that he can send. Sam states he will
I promised to check out the status of the
sn ay Office and Madrid to see what course of action they
Geen should be initiated;

smo:

Odesty not being one of his greatest virtues Sam rambled and
y Fambied about the "secrets" he got out of " illiam" and passed
gavto the Madrid c/o, I went along him and complimented ‘him
on a job well done; which is: true. But, he was not satisfied with
By plaudits, he wanted to know “what: ton said?" To which I
seid, “everyone, Washington, Hadrid ang ami thought you did an
excellent. job and we are most grateful sor your cooperation." He
like? that! very much; you could see it in the smile on his ce.
He tries to make it s. qd like it was a great ordeal and sacrifice
§ part to.go to Ssain to sce "lillian," but he. cannot hide
ety to get on the next plane to Madrid, and the good life there,

im" is now back’ in Cuba and there is no

%. inted out that a
n oh when he will return.” Nevertheless, Sam feels he

i should write him "because the letter will be sent to Cuba to him."
iH I assuced him that I would get a reading on this matter and have
: for ne Rext week, At that ¢ I promised to
i Xe him and his close friend to lunch, Sam gave me an :
: - extensive and expensive expense—account of chis trip.” I will attempt
po to-decipher it at the close of this report, : F

10, We ended the meeting on very cordial terns. He was not so mad at
not being contacted so such as he is dying to get back on the gravy
rain, Sgqmuch time has passed by without word to or fron :

Sam some way in which he can contact us

weight away" if “villian” notifies him "chat he's ready to juno.

You know when he ju: he won't have much t "= pointed cut

that at resent "is in Cuba and the prospects of hin

deZec uid, however,

Willian" retucns to ain or

apother foreign post. we will be seeing each othes next week to

clear up the accountings (we owe him money, he says) and have lunch.

‘now are v slin indeed. we

Renzy S. PACHANKIS,

24> PBS ULL



messace. road
TOTAL Comes

SECRET

Fet-sceweramarosstmnation | EJiworx (NY xo wor. C] dervun Fo
ea

rene] rive wes rite wo. ——|
sr

(deal He a ve eof eile, chek, Sabo obese

inne PERG OAD Taste and Lane bed

\. \. é
CITE DIRECTOR

SECRET 7 168

iT Tosse69 |

MADRID | INFO:, WH/MIAME ot) -.

RYBAT TYPIC AMMARTINI

REF: DIRECTOR 051625

lL HAS) LEARNED ANYTHING FROM QUTIMID/QUDOZE

RE REF (MONEY) CHECK WHICH PERTAINS TO AMMARTINI-l CASE?

2, HQS CHECKED WITH WOBONE| | AND WERE ADVISED
CHECK REGISTERED TO AMAUTO-1 WITH NO DIFFICULTIES AND
POSTED 17 JULY 70, APPEARS STRANGE NOTHING HAS SURFACED

CONSIDERING TIME LAPSE UNLESS AMAUTO-L’ 's MAIL BEING FORWARDED

3, FILE; 201-870553 AND 20t-788424,

END OF MESSAGE

(WH/COG COMMENT: hformed hat the check for,
in the amount of $171, 00 was being sent to AMAUTO-L

via New York. Check was balance of $152t. 00 which -
MMARTINI-t brought out w e defected, )

CT WIITCOG WE

JOHN 4, HART aa WILLIAM V, BROE
C/EUR Aofenois. . C/WHD

an TO -7
coonoimarine onrice ns. Am

me auricinicanna
| | enetase ene toca ste
RCLEATING erncea 7 ‘7 od OFFiceR
SECRET I | *

OFFICE 15 PACINDITEO, ony tea.

REPRODUCTION OY OTMER THAN THE ISSUE



s on ba
formatd to:R1
. Destroy front cover

lite no and t wn ato nol proper,
teeett proper hie no. below and lorward
document to RID/AN

unless it tevord:
mments requis

FROFUR PRETO

|" “TOT ALL ADORESSEES:
Fit SECTION FON Dae 1 APPROPRIATE

couwenrs

>) Cavett oF ale

aa Ay [le x 7 z /

“8 oo" -eegy PGF PF No

> | ob fhcer? ae

* o
a

' to)

: ve
”

y ~

: ;

» san.
uo

’ “0
+

, eee

: RID:

i Sea ere SECT od

eae tert ;
Cf RS ore oasag |.

Bare wcwornaTS tT —“socuuant Date vootuwentacwoee

: ie Lf F070 jasa 20617

ance ac : Taos

‘



Pe et

MICROEN ier,

iting ation

ae

DISPATCH [ veeves 77:

: Chief’, Western Hemisphe

ef, European. Division; Cos,

Chicf of Station, nadrid |

TYPIC “A MAUTO— 7
Details of Mectings between SAMKO and AMAUTO-1 _

[iciion eroumIO FIRING oe parece 7 faa
a ARECEL

| and was ‘met by the-undersigned at 1700 hours in his hotel room.
“;SAMKO does not know. the true ame of the undersigned, . He

af Ee
29 |
Bao

B. MADRID 1287 - iaconscersine aaa
SR er-Seeosy) ~~ FRED

US A MKOQ arrived in Madrid on 30 May

References: A. MADRID 1261

1. | Alexander

quickly complained of his flight and said never before has he

flown: ona" Jane" and avowed never again to fly
Se PACHANKIS correctly agsessed.him as a -
querulous per: The undersigned was mentally prepared for

his comments regarding the flight, the bad food served on the
plane, and, much later in the week, the hotel room, Badrid in
General and, because of the language barrier, his one-plate
diet of steak and potatoes. He said his return trip would be
through London where he expected to fly the Bocing 747 to

New York. SACODER interrupted him and said that » had-other
plans for him and his only reply was "oh!", Beneath his rough
exterior and use of the vernacular, which is indeed spicy,
SAMKO is a loveable person who hasan infinite number of anec-
dotes. Although he had no-children, he gives the impression
of being a’good, grandfatherly type who could easily put any=
one in a nostalgic mood, After leaving the room we continued
the conversation in the hotel bar. SACODER reviewed the cover
Stories and went through a series of do's and don'ts; i.e,,

do try to establish a channel between SAMKO and AMAUTO-1; don't
hesitate to accept an invitation to visit AMAUTO-l's office,
failing all other means to meet with him; do try to invite him
out alone to a restaurant for dinner or to a bar for a drink;
do accept an invitation to have dinner at his home; don't hint
to your sponsorship for this trip. He had no objections to
the cover stories, but embellished them to his liking with

CfiAt3,

+».Cont inued |--—:

Distribution;
2 -~ C/WHL, w/att, USC 4,2 2.
2 - C/EUR, wo/att Ladies
2 ~ COS, WH/Miami, w/att, USC

Attachment; Photographs, USC

cs

H TY eespatcw srannog axa wemate”

OSMA - 26417

Bere

' -$01-735096

i
1
i



burpese of his visit" to
throughout—the-operationz

____-did_an_outstanding. job.

‘2. On the evening of 30 May SAMKO and SACODER dined
at an out-door restaurant..” We spent’ another three hours \

rehearsing his cover story, reviewing the objectives ‘and
+ [ying to anticipate quéstions AMAUTO-1 might ask during.
“their meeting together. SAMKO was given the. following ‘objectives:

a. The'foremost objective was for SAMKO i ®

to. renew and improve upon his relationship with |
AMAUTO-1,.to-.the extent that they would be able 4

to reminisce, Over a prolonged period, about the +4
relationship that: existed before AMAUTO-1'S departure

from the United States,

b. To exchange addresses and telephone
numbers for the purpose -of ‘Sending occasional.
“greetings to one another. i

c. To. invite AMAUTO-1 (and his wife, if iT
necessary) to dinner, at his expense. {

4. To ascertain AMAUTO-1's. future ‘plans. |

©. To assess AVYAUTO-1's feelings toward —
the United States and toward his own government

f£. For SAMKO to taik favorably about the
United States using himself as an cxample, (the
son of ‘immigrant parents who made good in’ business) ;
to emphasize the opportunities available to anyone
with imagination, ambition and aggressiveness,

&. If the opportunity presented itself,

to show sympathy for the apparent failure of the
"Cuban Government to reach the 10 million ton
Sugar goal and to ask whether the non-fulfillment
of this goal would adversely affect the economic
development of Cuba. It was our hope that some-
time during the conversation AMAUTO-1 would
volunteer to discuss his country's economic
Situation which might have opened the conversation
to further exploitation by SAMKO.

h. Paralle] with objective e. above, SAMKO
Was instructed to ask (provided an appropriate opening
appeared in the conversation) AMAUTO-1 for his
Personal comments on the Vietnam issue and anti-war
demonstrations in the United States and abroad, We
were trying to draw out AMAUTO-1's personal analysis
of the U.S. position vis-a-vis the war in Vietnam

and to compare his statements withthe Cuban Government
position . e

3. Although, SAMKO was determined to see AMAUTO-1 even
if he had to camp outside AMAUTO-1's home, we reminded him
that because of AMAUTO-1's position, he might refuse to see
SAMKO in his home, but that SAMKO should not hesitate to



secon CONTINUATION OF
OISPAICH

playing; an ; the door.to the dr: y.¥as open, thus
“waS able to énter the frost yard. “Under separate

cover for CWHD and “COS, Nidmi-we are” forwarding photographs
taken: during the initial meeting between SAMKO and AMAUTO-1.
The pictures were taken from the home of one of our staffers.
We belieye they highlight the events leading to the reunioa
of these two old friends: The: following is ‘a description

of each photo: fee : i

PHOTO A: . SANKO arrives at ANAUTO-1's home at 1150 hours,
oes 831 May.1970. - (Although not shown, KENTLAND--
and SACODER were monitoring AMAUTO-1's home
from 0900 hours on 31 May so'that, inthe -
veVent AMAUTO-1 decided to, leave before SANKO'S
* “arrival, we could instruct: SAMKO' by. phone’ ‘to
~ delay his departure.)

After trying to enter via the front: gate,

: SAMKO calied to one of the children who was
playing in the front yard. The child. told
him to.go to. the garage entrance. SAMKO -
walks toward that entrance.» #

The. boy apparently ‘called, for someone in the
house. A maid, not shown in this “photo, but
who can be seen in photo L, came out and
approached SANKO. In his halting. Spanish,
SAMKO said he wanted to see "el Senor".

The maid said’he wasn't in, He explained to
the maid that it was "very importante" to

see the Senor, By this time another maid
appeared,.shown in this photo, and she gets
into the act, She repeats that el Senor is

not in. SAMKO, sensing he wasn't getting
anywhere, changed his tactics and asked to

see "la Senora", The maids went into indivi~
dual monologues, but SAMKO could not understand
what they were saying. Finally, SAMKO produced
a note, which he was asked to prepare, and
handed it: to the maid in this photo. SAMKO
repeated that it was "very importante to see
el Senor."

The maid accepts the note and returns to the -
house. Three of AMAUTO-1's.children observe
the activities from the front entrance.

AHAUTO-1 exits, with note in hand and looks
toward the driveway. SAMKO spots him and
calls out, "Bill, don't you remember me,

it's SAMKO." Bill replies, "SAMKO, muy bien,
come here, come here.” Actually, AMNUTO-I—
goes toward SAMKO and they embrace. (The
driveway slants toward the house and from our
observation post we could not see the embrace.)

. AMAUTO-1 accompanies SAMKO into the house,
arm in arm, As they, go SAMKO tells AMAUTO-1 that

he put on weight and asked where his boy was.
AMAUTO-1 replies that he's rich because all
these kids are his (pointing to the three boys) «



SUNTINJATION OF
OISPAICH

E ef talk in the house, thé ANA
7 . Rnd SAMKO-return-to-thi

‘UTOS.
ie driveway where they ~
: ~ -BRAZECG sone piccures. | AMAUTO=1-is “impressed
? with SAMKO's’ Polaroid and they exchange comments
on their cameras,

ies TeAMAUTO-1-helps move the baby carriage through
the gates. This is his newest and sixth enild.

J: Same as I, above.

K: Maid takes baby out for a stroll.

This “is. a new
“madd. -

A picture’of the new. maid. Qlight prove helpful
for future identification in the event we resume
our ‘operation against AMAUTO-1's residence.)

‘Ms AMAUTO21 prepares to open both gates to remove
his new Alfa-Romeo. :

“Same.. Notice AMAUTO-1's high forehead. He has
lost a considerable amount of hair since his
arrival in December 1967,

0: AMAUTO-1's wife ente:
one of his sons,

rs the picture; also, another
nie

P; SAMKO's still taking pictures.
pictures to ANAUTO-1 to avoid ca.
(SACODER ran out of film here,
his Alfa from the garage,
Italian license plates. ‘The AMAUTOs, SAMKO and

the kids get in the car and leave for the amusement
park located at the Casa del Campo. }

He gave the

sting Any suspicions,
but AMAUTO-1 removes
The car still carries

4. During the conversation in AMAUTO-1"

began his deliberate, softening of AMAUTO-1 with such comments
as "you know Bill,

“Julio was jealous of. you because I treated
you like a brother: J didn't want you to return to Cuba, but
T couldn't stop you. We were/all in favor of Casteors Bill
admitted here that SAMKO was a good friend and enjoyed his job
and the pay was good, but added that "I had to go. Iwas in
the States illegally." SAMKO- added "you-know, Bill, I never
Was blessed with any children;' you were like 4 son to me, but
when I heard you died in the mountains in Cuba, I blamed’myselt
yor jetting you go." Bill replied that he was’ wounded on his
left side.” SAMKO explained that if AMAUTO-1 was se the States
gziegatly, SAMKO could have arranged for him to remain 4s the
States by getting assistance from some police and detective
friends in’Florida. SAMKO repeated his delight to again see
ANAUTO-1 and tiow happy he was to know he is slive.

's home, SAMKO

5. Moments after entering the howe, AMAUTO-1 invited
him to have breakfast. SAMKO refused, but settled for a beer.
AMAUTO-1 excused himself, went ‘to the phone and called an
unidentified party, - SAMKO could not understand the conver-
pistons but SAMKO and Station officers suspect that he catied
his Fone of his colleagues, possibly advising him
of SANKO'S presence, (It is.also possible that AMAUTOo2



CONTINUATION OF
=S===<O1SPATCH™ zl

“2 éallea (duty officer that he-° :----
: r Would be leaving for the Amusement Park: - -Thére~ ~~
—-were-no QUTIMID i ipporting this theo )... The. fact -
. that the telephone’ cal} “was - made soon after SAMKO'S arrival
leads us to suspect that. the call was mide to establish a
int vesJlance of SAMKO and AMAUO-1 at the park. As noted:
in references SAMKO was specifically bristed on this possi-
bility and-was alerted to report any absence of AMAUTO-1
from the roon, : o

We were confident that AMAUTO-1 would be the first
@-cover:questions, but instead ‘his wife asked both .
What are “you doing here? and How did you get our
SANKO repeated’ the cover story and at the ecd of
= how did you get our address ~ AMAUTO-1 said that it
giuate Possible. (AMAUTO-1's wife remained cool and sus-
picious throughout .the ‘initial confrontation, but later reacted
i 3 MIKO.) AS we noted above, SANKO embellished the
"his satisfaction... te also shed’a few tears when he
2 the story of his wife's death and the doctor's”
recommendation that he take a vacation. He continued his
softening approach of AMAUTO-1 by adding: "Bill, when my wife
took “111 ‘Some:'years ago, ‘She asked me to divest myself of all
business interests, but if you were there with ne, Bill, you
Could have handled my affairs and you might have been a
millionaire today." SAMKO sensed that ANAUTO-2 And his wife
“tree moved by this comment and were literally drooling with
the thought of being millionaires. The wife asked a number
of Questions regarding SAMKO's wealth, his reat estate activity,
Collection of silver and his success in general. The wife
BBS astounded with the simple explanation of how SAMKO went
about building and financing apartment houses. SAMKO made
S cusgestion that AMAUTO-1 invest in silver because the scarcity
of this metal would eventually raise the market value. He
explained to AMAUTO-1 that he was collecting 11 silver coins
stamped prior to 1965, The next couple of houre were spent
Sayre, amusement park where, on arrival, AMAUTO1 steered
SAMKO to a cafeteria near.the main entrance. In short order
{wo men arrived on the scene, friends of AMAUTOLI. They were
introduced to SAMKO, but’ SAMKo could not remonber the names,
‘After a few moments ’a couple arrived and they, too, were
introduced to S§MKO. (SAMKO could not identify the persons
he met from the. photographs in our mug book.). AMAUTO-1's
friends took a number of photographs of SANKO and AMAUTO-1 and
after a short while together, they left. The conversation at
the park was aimless. They discussed the kids and SAMKO repeated
how delighted and proud he was to know that one of AMAUTO-1's
children was named, Alexander — his namesake, AMAUTO-1 had
pyiede grin while SAMKO was talking about Alexander. He asked
AMAUTO=1 about the oldest boy. AMAUTOcL replied that the oldest
was Studying civil enginecring. SAMKO suggested to
MIAUTO-I that he should give his children the best education and
have them stay away from politics and political courses but
wedicinn ego" the professional ficlds, engineering, law,
nedicine, etc. AMAUTO-1 admitted that his intention was’ to
Keep. his children away from a political career. SAuIKO said he
Rould send Alexander some commercial slides of Cape Kennedy
and other points of interest in Florida.

6.



CONTINUATION OF

a ISPATC

-. J. While St41]-at the park-SAMKO said he “hoped “AMAUTO-1
would get an ass Lhe United Nations so that. AMAUTO-1-
Would have’ an opportunity’ fo visit “SAMKO in Florida. AMAUTO<1. . -
was thrilled with ‘this -fdea-and™SAMKO's offer. SAMKO said
his: eyés glowed’ while AMAUTO-1 pondered this possibility.
SANKO talked about. his home and the beach nearby, the climate,
his new car, ete, SAMKO'S comment on AMAUTO-1's reaction was
interesting.--"He said that beneath. AMAUTO-1's communist inate f

lies the’capitalist. Before’ leaving the park (AMAUTO-1"had to

. leave for: the airport ‘where he ‘had an appointment to sce AMECRU-1
SAMKO"said, “Bill, if you ever need. me, I'l] never let you down,
“You have a good. friend who loves you a’lot.". SAMKO said he
‘noted some emotional. change on Bill's face after this comment.

: 8. SAMKO. was ‘niét..48 hours after the contact with AMAUTO-1
> in the event..AAUTO-1 :decideéd to put -a surveillance on SANKO.
. No surveillance. was noted when ‘SAMKO was picked up, but, on
. Cntering the car ‘SANKO Suggested that SACODER keep an eYe out
for attail. .We drove around town for fifteen minutes. Certain ~
that‘no one was tailing us, we drove to a Station. safchouse
which has ancunderground’garage. SAMKO was visibly excited and
was enjoying ‘the "cloak. and.dagger" role, but he was nervous.
He was highly impressed with: the garage entrance to the safe
house and commended us for, being so shrewd and security conscious.
He wanted .to know whose apartwent it was and SACODER said that
it was his private “pad”... His comment was:"you sure live it up
well.” As PACHANKIS aptly explained in one of his reports,
SAMKO's ‘temper does. rise. Ne was highly excited during the
meeting because he was asked to leave the hotel room, Since
the reservation was made for four days, he was asked to leave.
He pleaded with SACODER to do something to-keep him in the hotel
room or risk losing the opportunity to lunch with AMAUTO-1
because AMAUTO-1 was to call him at the hotel on Saturday,
6 June. SACODER admitted the error but added that there was
a simple solution if he could not convince the hotel manage—
ment to allow him to stay a few more days, SACODER suggested
that he should explain to the manager that 1) his laundry had
not yet returned and 2) he was expecting an important phone
call on Saturday and that there was no way of getting in touch
with the caller, Failing this, SACODER offered another simple
solution. Since SANKO and ANAUTO-1 had not yet exchanged
addresses, SAMKO could return to the AMAUTO-1 home and give
the maid a note advising AMAUTO-1 that he had to change hotels.
(SAMKO admitted that he told AMAUTO-1 about the possibility of
having to leave the hotel because his reservation ended soon.)
SAMKO did not at first accept this logic, but SACODER explained
that he (SACODER) could not plead with the hotel management
on:SAMKO's behalf, This was poor security. SAMKO accepted
this and after a glass of scotch and water admitted that the
solution was indeed simple, but he waz terribly excited at first.

9. Throughout the debriefing SAMKO revealed the following:
He was born in Perth Amboy, New Jersey on 2 November 1907 to
Polish parents. At the age of 14-15 he worked-as a construction
hand on a bridge being built in Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania.
Later, he worked on the construction of the Anhauser Yeast
Factory in Oldbridge, New Jersey. He married in 1930. During
the hard years, his wife worked in a factory while he roamed
the streets looking for employment. In the early 40's he
worked for Dupont reportedly on the atomic bomb project, but
specifically with U-235. After the war he applied for work
with NBC which he thought would be the Nationtl Broadcasting
Company, but.after ‘he filled out his application and was accepted



CONTINUATIVGA SEC
DISPATCH | Sonic eeer

for employment, he learned that it was the National.Buscuit |
soc. Companys “He was a master mechanic, Hots an ingenious person.
“Scand” has invented several items ‘on which ‘ne 1

the years. Before, during. and after th
had the foresight to put his meager
He tioved to Florida in the early 50's, ¥
two apirtnent ‘buildings, but sold them after a year for a .
$15,000 loss and made some investments in land near the Cape
Kerinedy area. He was about to begin a multi-million dollar
Building project on the land, but the NASA complex was moved
to Houston and he therefore cancelled his plans and sold the
_property.’ While he is not considered wealthy SAMKO lives quite
comfortably in retirement. He has a Lincoln continental in the
“and a home. valued at about $50,000, Another of his com-
plaints was the way.we controlled ‘his purse strings while in
Madrid. ..We put him in‘a hotel used by many travel agencies
- which SACODER !thought was comfortable, but SAMKO would have
the Hilton: :He complained of the fact that he was
dipping “into his-own money “and was not happy with the’ idea of
keeping récéipts ‘(@side-from the hotel bills and the airline

ticket, SANKO probably didnot keép-any receipts). He was
ae advanced $280 Which will be T/A'd
“cp. should pick up Ris fUlT tab ‘and might consider buying him a

case of séotch as a token of our appreciation for his accomplish-
ments on the assignment, but -PACHANKIS probably has learned
that.a,couple of -pats on SAMKO's ‘back is sufficient to reward him.

YO: Contact was again made with SAMKO on’ the eve of his
possible luncheon engagement with AMAUTO-I. We again reviewed
the objectives and he was given a defensive briefing as suggested
by WH/Miami, He was told that-PACHANKIS probably would not.
visit with him for about two weeks after his return and that he
should not attempt to get in touch with PACHANKIS. He under-
stood why this was necessary and agreed with the briefing.

If a luncheon could be arranged, SANKO was asked to concentrate
on the following: (in addition to the requirements: he was given
before his first meet with AMAUTO-1) :

A. Try to ascertain AMAUTO-1's future, his.
ambitions, his next possible assignment,

‘ .  B. If possible engage him in a conversation
regarding the United States to get his
reaction toward our problems.

C. Build-up your successes ‘and reflect on how
AMAUTO-1 might have achieved similar’ goals
had he remained in thé United States.

D. Be alert for any opening to inject questions
relating to the Cuban economy vis-a-vis the
failure of the "ten million", but to avoid
criticism for this failure, and show:sympathy,

11, “SAMKO had no difficulty convincing the hotel manage-
nent. that he had to remain in the hote] until Saturday, 6 June.
He spoke directly with the manager and told the manager tmt
he was planning to leave on 7 June and would stay
at a sister hotel and asked the manager to make reservations
for him. The crisis had passed. :



CONTINUATION OF
=-DiSPATCH——

“egg 12+ > On, the morning of: G June -AMAUTO-1's-wife called -
SAMKO and, in English, said-that her husband would pick him
up .at. 1400-hours--in- front of thehotel. At ‘tHe appointed
hour, AMAUTO-1's.official vehicle pulled up in-front ‘of. the
hotel driven bya chauffeur, AMAUTO-1 greeted SAMKO in front
of the hotel and after exchanging a few words, they departed
for a nearby restaurant. (SANKO was too preoccupied to make
note of the name of the restaurant. We. decided against any
“surveillance durinj “he AMAUTO-1/SAMKO meeting to avoid alerting
.AMAUTO-1 and/or his staff that the SAMKO visit to Madrid

“was pre-planned.)

23. At lunch. SAMKO and AMAUTO-1 again reminisced.
They discussed the following: .

-A.. In one of his references, AMAUTO-1 said
Bieta a that. men like him aré needed-in Cuba and
sane noted that ae would probably die fighting
for Cuba which is young and aggressive, ~
but. that some day it will be a great
‘country,;. that. he has been, fighting ‘all

his life’ to relieve the oppressed and
vepeated that he will die fighting.

(it is interesting to note SAMKO's reaction
heré to AMAUTO-1's statement. When SAMKO
first visited: AMAUTO-1 on 31 May, he was
certain that under the facade of being a
devoted revolutionary ANAUTO-1 was indeed a
capitalist at heart, but at this meeting
SAMKO modified his comment by adding that
it appears AMAUTO-1 is truly a communist,
who maintains strong convictions of the
righteousness of the revolution. The above
comments by AMAUTO-1 produced’ the peg on
which SAMKO could have questioned the veracity
of AMAUTO-1's statement on freeing the
oppressed, but he was’ not specifically

“ instructed to maintain a polemic argument

: on the rights and wrongs of the revolution
because we felt this objective was secondary
to the re-establishment of a relationship
between these two old friends, A future
meeting might include the exchange of*an
objective appraisal of the revolution as
seen by SANKO.)

B. AMAUTO-1 proposed that SAMKO act as an
intermediary for the sale of Cuban sea food
in the United States. He explained that
the Cubans have a large fishing fleet in
the Canary Islands, The fish caught is
processed in the Canary Islands and can be
Shipped to the United States as a product
of Spain, not of Cuba. ANAUTO-1 added,
“SAMKO, you're like a father to me, please
think about it (the agency)? AMAUTO-1
explained that SAMKO could earn about $200,000
a-year in commission based on sales of
$2,000,000. SAMKO said he would think about.
it, but privately to SACODER he said that
he had no intention to disturb his retirement
with a fishy business, :

S3@ ast resus eines



“olsParcn

€. | SAMKO gave AMAUTO-1-4 new Kennedy foots

half-dollar which’ delighted As UTO-1.

ho_expectod.— —-—=-— =f -— -
kker.than just. an
ambassador to Spain.” He said, "I want
you to.get to the United Nations."

SAMKO repeated his desire to show ‘
AMAUTO-1 his Florida home and spend a
few days at the beach with him. AMAUTO-1
again was visibly moved with this idea,

E, ‘SAMKO ‘restated that "Bill, you have a

good friend, don't forget it. You are
like a son."

F. Théy exchanged addresses. SASIKO had
printed his address, but AMAUTO-1 asked
him to write it on another piece of
Paper. AMAUTO-1 reasoned that hé wanted
jt written to understand it better, but we
believe’ he will use the sample to compare
it with letters SAMKO might send in the

. future, They promised to write to each
other. SAMKO was given AMAUTO-1's private
address, not that of the

G. AMAUTO-1 regretted that SAMKO had to
leave so. soon because he: would havo
enjoyed showing SAMKO the Spanish
interior. SAMKO said he might consider
returning near the end of 1970,” but
AMAUTO-1 did not ‘say whether hé would
be in Spain in late 1970,

H, AMAUTO-1 said he was suspicious when
he first saw SAMKO noting that the nature
and importance of his position make him
Act suspicious, but the suspicion soon
dissipated - so ‘he said,

“14. On saying their
men embraced and again’ pr
correspondence. At this
was met late that evening

last goodbyes at the hotel, both
omised to keep in touch through
Point the operation was over, SAMKO
+. He was taken to a new safehouse.

15, Accomplishments: We feel the objectives
and rehearsed were successfully fulfilled
than our own expectations, Unless we are misjudging the shrewd-
ness Of AMAUTO-1 through our own naivete, we belicve the
relationship was sincerely re-established and a channel opened
for future use by AMAUTO-1 should he desire to use this: channel

other than to maintain a friendly correspondence. It was un-
fortunate that his trip interfered possibly to the
point of SAMKO having one or two additional meetings with AMAUTO-1
Ponetheless, “in the six plus hours together, SAMKO admirably
fulfilled our requirements and courageously maintained the
fiction of his visit to Spain. We believe too, that although
AMAUTO-1 appears to be solidly in favor of the Cuban regime,
fe did not criticize the United States which we feel he might
have done had he suspected that SAMKO's visit to Nadrea C s
Sponsored by the U.S. Government, AMAUTO-1 has come a long
way Since his int A butcher in the united States and

programmed
» perhaps far greater



DISPATCH re oy

"At-the sane tine, “we°féel,
ight-take ddvantage-of the

= his—own—pos'
colleagues.

: . 15. We would ‘appreciate PACHANKIS doing the following:

cae A. “Purclase dozen or so slides of Cape -
A : cae Kennedy and ‘rocket launchings which will
Ya). be Sent! to AMAUTO-1's son, ‘Alexander,
SAMKO sliould prepare -a letter to. AMAUTO-1
as soon as ‘the purciase is made extending
his appreciation tc AMAUTO-1 for ‘spending his
valuable-time with SAMKO and repeating his
desire to help in any way possible and not
to hesitate..doing so.

crite 46. ‘We again would like to.extend to. SANKO our appreciation
for his support and“full cooperation. Also, our thanks to Miami
‘and PACHANKIS’ for their fine support. : ‘

; Kecseat

P.S. AMAUTO-1 was recalled on 30 June 1970 and his future )
iS uncertain at this time; therefore, we suggest that ¢
SAMKO not mail any letters or send any slides to :

c

aeetec”
ER

AMAUTO-1 in Madrid,

PBS 2

10

oes 53a use rnvcvs enon | SECRET [CS











4
i
Hy

ned









te 4 |

ete i
' nf 7 t

: ‘

i : : : |

H N

i
{ | fan





i

f

i |

i
ot
its
ip. +
iy ot















ita : SECRET

(fen Filled tay

CR AND. CROSSREF ERENCE

CCCUYENT IDENTIFICATION

Geese Ea ee re uel pea spe eer artes tt ar rite’ noe |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

RUIZ PEREZ» CUILLERMO :

201-735256 \ 2¢1-821698

SFX 4 COB 7? MADR-G1039
| 16 JUL 72

CIT CUBA i OSM -16699

occ? :

RECALLEC TO HAVANA; ON 30 JUNE

I

R TCC7311560:

FILE IN 201-2352292

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. >

$O5F 867 ene reestous

SECRET tre 469



TYPIC. AS TINT co

RID 1809 (EN LLti

ant CERTIFIED LETiEn,
IF YOU 1

201-870553.



i
ri
SECRET 1615512 JuL 79 cite waok 1s ae

pr rigs raion

DIRECTOR IFO WH MIAME

C  rypte . jain
c REFE maparp toss Gov 248 5?)

" 1, REFERENCE REPORTED ARRIVAL 15 JULY

fn (€216-391123), REPLACIEG

€231-735296), AND

(201-821893), POSSIELY REPLACING
© (201-821987), :

€ 2. IN VIEW CLOSE association) sd st
CONSIDER POSSIBILITY THAT WE WAS CCI STATION CHIEF tee i
c LaSTEAD OF €291-791154). i
i¢ ASSIGHMEVT, TNEREFCRE, NERITS PARTICULAR STUDY AS
'y{ POSSIBLE vEW DGI CUTER.
ic 3. REQUEST FULL TRACES
ig. A. FILE 251-301125, 231-821693, CPt i
SECRET : ruta
©
eee:
© par 235296

Mo Sih lo



.
Pete ¢ De les SS
SECRET 2612122 JUN_Z CITE WADRID Laan
© ore INFO WEAN AH Wace P Ud
€
©

RYEAT TYFIC “<UDOZE
1. GUDCZE REPORTSIS- JUNE FOLCUING

* Ae GUILLERMO RUIZ PEREZ (Zui-735255) AND WI
GVGING HAVANA 26 OR 21 JULY FOR GENERAL MINREX Mz, TING CHICFS
OF WISSTGN LATTER HALF JULY. es
fo) Be PERSON CURRENTLY CHIEF OF SeC2ET AR TaT
Jootus ro vansav [J] i
e283 sue FLIGHT [J awe woe
(2e1-2) | (221-S12118),
ae (201-8 14891).
ce De DISCUSSION HELD BETWEEN RUIZ, WIFE AND ABOVE ! \
: UO Gi ROTH ILE Ge shen ai| aurnsnneanteaninsnnn ented eee
My
: © iw povsr enttweR WILL ze SON-IN-Law OF POSSTELY yh 4
v
© LAW AGARTINI-1 (2Et-875445), (CANECT CLARIFY SIice ry ita Vv -
PARTICIPANTS ZCUALLY VASUE.) NY
© 2 FILE 2215 AS woTeD. GP-1 ay ‘yO
siecrer ; (SCY agi -assage
© B-2c1-e121t6
I B- 263 ~S1¢e|e7l
B- 20) - 2704-43 i
é stoner



as nial - Re We,

46 Suey 76

cee Se | DY Juno- 1970-==----- i

A 's and has. tho
ssion ‘botearry’ a
tthe present timo is Tate
factory, in tho Plasa do
=» Whose photograph is ‘attached.

Ruiz is talking with a Cuben who is in Madrid on a scholarship. 2

They’are talking of-bringing a teacher fron Cuba and Ruiz

Says that this would be very difficult, He-says that instruction
-is given by professors, but education is given by ths parents,
and ‘what? the children will bo denends on tis education.

Ruiz. says that his fathor mado hin a communist. Of all the .
_ chileren, he was the-only_ ono that studiod, but it was his i
fathor thot formed them'all.”: Fron the tine he was a small

“¢ehild his father gave him books of Lenin to read, These books
arrived ¢landestinely to Cuba. He rena: about croblens his
own children havo civen hin, He-refers to an incident wrere

ono of the children was invited to a First Corrunton, and

speaks of the freedom he gave the child to make his First
Communion also, if ke wantod to.

[Thon Ruiz says that his other. son "ATRIAUDRO, ts inclined to
remain in Spain, and he is willing to let him if this is what
tho boy wants, ‘He says that these thincs have to core fron
one's own self, and if they are opposed in se actions it
can loave narks.on them for the rest of their lives, 2uiz
says ho gives them the liberty to choose,

Ruiz telt -this-student. with whom-he is conversing ‘that oe
has gone to the United Statos, and adds that
wife never came to meetinrs or reunions that
were held at the erbassy, Sho always gave as an excuse that
her nerves were bad. Ruiz says thot took the monoy
with him, Serie rnreT nna TTarnaT

This comrade(F) left at 12:15, Ho said goodbye to her very
cordially. Apoarently around the 29th of the month she is
going to Paris.

“Later Ruiz entered the office ccain and nut the radfo on vory.
loud. Hoe didn’t leave the office all morning, but the radio
continued to play very loud; so much so that you can hardly
tell when anyono goes in or out of the of “ices

Report 3 18 June 197
Kpparontly they have received a document in which all the Criefs
of Mission liava been called to Cuba for the third woek of July,
as some of then can mako it coincidé with their leave, He tells
Gurbgre that he intends to send Nilda either before or after he

eaves. :

Gee:
[2 So- 1

= aos 5



“Guba. If thoro isn't co:

“hing his. wife, his son, or norey. He says that it has caused

1 (cont taued)’
tios Trom the song throuchout pho world, which have boon
calculated at hetveen 750,000 and 1,000,000, and althouch

this arount will have to be divided, among many things, something

would f211 to then,
Ruiz says to work abroad. they have to.or should send people of

tho greatest trist, othome se. it is better t hat they reriain in
plete confidence it is a constant

strugsle with the capitalis ifo, money, the stores, tho easy
life. They ronton tes Ruiz says if hets fono he's
Gone, but the intores ing thing would bo to know what motivated

8 Ercat impression hero, and that no one-oven inmarine’ such a

“thing. Only two days before he had beon tn the study circle

with all-of then,

A girl thet 18 in this mooting witt 3 that

daught s fed to who is T

cae that “ae -nas_peon proposed for ambassador (Rutz
nat thoy will.now have t: ider this), and what they

wee agree on is that ree not to blane,

Ruiz rontions the letter fx 9o[ eteieeteri son in which he says that
his father has’ betrayed then, vney algo nontion an anbassader |
who has left (for Cuba-?) and took watehos as gifts to everyone

in the Ministry, Ruiz thinks that somo of thom will remain here

in Spain as they have a great deal going for then there,

Report No.352 | 26 Juno 1970

Ruiz! is very displeased. fe speaks to about how badly
Some of the comrades sveak of him whon they return to Havana,

He asks him if he rerenzers the nare of one of these comrades
that spoke badly..of hin last suzmer when he was there on vaca+
tion, It. was somcone named and another one that soon loft.
After what seid they wrote him a letter calling his atten-
tion tothe cRiticism.  2uix is very worrted about his Yre-call
to Havana, Ho telis| that ho doesn't think it ts about
his work, and Says they are doing thinrs there th at are
Super-ruran, that. without the necessary means at hand they are
vesclving difficult problem of various kinds, Ruiz mentions
contacts ‘that “he has had in Spain with different veople, and ho
Rover has cormitted an erroz, and has always handled everytning
with creat tact and in favor of his Governzent, even when he has

had to deal with

Ruiz says that ho is very sensitive and that things have pot to
the point that ‘ne ‘can't just lot then so by, thinea they are
accusing him of in Havana, But, there is no one that has the
courage to tell hin directly.to his face 30 that he could

justify ainself, and if ther “are things that he cannot handle then
for them to call hin beck, end relieve hin of the post because

"Cort Andante Guillermo Ruiz cannot resolve thon, bub the thing ts.



“he belongs to no var

en to
@ worst. oF. it

him when

is th porsona} ity fron there \.
that t ve $0 0 tertain, someone irmortent, and tthe : \
attention ¥ neod is continual, ‘and sonmetiros. it is.necess- Be

ary to attend to the voonle here in Snain, eich prevents
thon from attending tease who arrive, front ere, but they

don't undorssand- Sy : f

Ho continues to talk with ‘and hei$ indinnant, .Ruis
gays that ho ‘has been in Revolution since he. Was twenty. 7 aa
yesrs old, wren ‘he bosan to tH tant: Tor himself.. “Ho says that:

none other, that is, Sut the Cutan. : :
communist party, He says that the situation is beconing so f
unco::fortable rorardin= hin, and he doesn't like it at all. .
He says he puts everything he has an all he care possible fice

into doing his Job,

“Rulz says that’ one nover knows about these things in Mavana,
and that it is possible that he won't be returning, In the
ovent that ho is going to leavo

officially in cha a 11 represent oe

his abscene: nd if he roturns ho will

notify tho ove nt o. clally. wants semoles
_—

or novels 9 passvorts to take with hin, and thon he :
tells |that Sf he has not roturned.by the 13th of ‘
that he should ronrosent fir: at the ofFictal recention : :

elves astructicns as to what to wear, what the
official corerontes aro and just what they consist of.
30 June 1970

ives him & rossace
he

uiz speaks to sorsone that calls and
waich ann ic, Someone nas called

sayin:
u3ze “boric acid" in the stoves(?) wiich ¢
sive hin this ressare tn the nano of
they herve a Lat
would take adequate m

aSIres 0 thot no stove would be shipped.

- Ruiz says to] that’ he doesn't have tine to take care

and co to the
eharnes about the

. the trade between

1b up as far as the Coneral : :
he "borte acid” one-way

ich was
Th

of this matter. snd for him to

can
of a saip

made in she, naze o:
cause a delay of six
while this call is being oxplained in pubtie


signilicant
Ag preserver:

ea
Rib. :
vet sheet, unless it records

taken of comments requir

Tf hile ao- and titlg
insert proper hile no. below-pad ferward
ducument to RID AN.

VFO; ACL AODRESSEES
SUehion Ow BACe w ADpaoOMATE |

couwents

en papain

6-7: Thi ig nour guint
acakume, buat will We
coaell by SPHtKo umalor
cae aks Lact fs
ca hin four, em

action frou,

nena
ka. He analy me bad
Ke it LMEéo

AUG. 1 W/Y
Gog, MIC2a 2h,
(is x-ReF ETO A0s- 016156
and aor~ 826007

7 : wee
RIDA}
T EL
race i :
mover (|

[Biteorceorners

SECRET

Corer

!
“OSMA 20809

oa

4



[aaa torn
tf

voters 0131
Habdwae sgse

ern Hemisphere Division
ton. Wil/Miani oo py

pe Division

Guillermo RUIZ Perez’

a RS NT

References: A, MADRID 1466
B. MADRID 1457

YV. Relative! to Subject’s rééall to Havana, which came

via a telephone gall.cn 24 June’ bly fromMINREX) bidding
sm dP
corded Sul set S reaction to the unexplained call as ‘follows:

Eten orbs Aly

: a AS fgth with Vg
: Speculating onz— cara
"Havana's possible motives ‘for requesting his Labbe 25 ALE

return. at this time, when in a matter of a few2c. ¢
ees he was scheduled to travel to Cuba for they p4,/ 2
26 of July celebrations which he expected to aay

combine with his vacation leave. He was extremely: (i+? 7"0—
upset and complained bitterly about companeros
who have tried to discredit him in Havana. He
wondered if Havana was going to put him on the

carpet for charges brought against hii these
conipaneros. le recalled 000 eer lft was
not sure of the name) who. last summer made false

accusations against him, for which he received a
letter of reprimand from Havana,

B. Subject also wondered if Havana could have
any complaints about his work. He had always main-
tained good relations with the Spaniards and despite
their contrary political idiology, he was careful
not to ruffle their feathers while upholding. his
government's position at all times, He could not

Distribution: (continued)
2 ~ C/WHD
2 - COS/WH,s
2 - C/EUR

Eas



Haste! * CONTINUATION OF

Tmayine that Havana would “question hin on that
score... Howover, if there were problems that
Havana’ felt he lacked the ability to-resolve, |
~he Should: st
a le:
“said he lad been a revalutionary since the ako
:-0f, 20 when -he began to think for-himself. He
“Nad-wWeVer bolonged to-any political party: other
than ‘the Cuban Communist. ‘the current state of
affairs,liowover, was becoming too disturbing and
distasteful to him because conscientiously he
knew that, he was.putting forth. his full mental
ald physical. capacity toward the fulfillment of
Ute abechaied

Subjgét told-_Ithat since ‘he didn't
know what; was’ brewing in Havana it was possible
that hé -miglit not. return to Madrid. In any event
hie"would designate to substitute for him
as charge d'affaires. -During the entire conver-
sation no mention ‘was made of
‘and why he was. asked to return with RU 1.Z.
- The latter seemed to be thoroughly absorbed in his
: own concern over whatever fate lay in Beene: a hin
on his return to Cuba.

Sa eparejeeaaet E



O exe so OO acre to Pore

j a = z :
\ ghee lou hv, ERG or ertph. Fr)
SECRET 1465352 JU 70-CITE naveio (ea)

ae DIRECTOR’ INFO WH/MLANE Ndi 1 22500 5

1. QUSECRET-1 CQuDOZE MONITOR) REPORTS 14 JULY THAT
COMPLETE QLEAHING UNDERWAY IW CUBAN EMBASSY, ALL STAFF

PATICIPATING, IN PREPARATION FOR ARRIVAL 15 JULY OF VIP
\ FROM HAVANA. FURTHERMORE, THAT LARGE NUNBERS OF PERSONAL
phe, EFFECTS BELONGING TO FAMILY GUILLERMO R UI-Z_ PEREZ
(281-735296) WERE PACKED, INQLUDING ALL OF RUIZ’S
PERSONAL BOOKS FROY OFFICE. DEFINITE IMPRESSION IS THAT - :
RUIZ WILL NOT RETURN. in

2. STATION MONITORING QUDOZE/QUTIMID AND AIRPORT
TO DETERMINE FURTHER DETAILS CONCERNING NEW ARRIVAL AND
OTHER CHANGES,

3. FILE 281-735296. GP-1
SECRET

Y ian
SeRer 14 Sub 70
SOL PF? BE AIG



SECRET

(fen Felted fay

ica OW SOURCE DOC, SVOEOL AO.

Enron ory

RUIZ PEREZ® GUILE

201-7 35256 221-339505

sex 4 008 ? MADR-01L60%
i 13 suL 70

cit ?

acc ?
GOING HAVANA FROM MADaIO 14 JULY

R 7648930136

FILE IN 207-205-226)

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

0T 867 eve
SECRET



MALT IS CF mg no, =

a HR nt ae, | rae no fa :
us Rapin, eve G anp.. AD) IFE2

SECRET 1316192 JUL 1G bats WADKID 1664

fuer te Ponanen

4

13 Jui! 21763
TYPIC QUTIMID OY

Je ALBA GRINAN NUNEZ (201- -339565), CUBAN

cTOR INFO WIV IAMT

RIBASSAD o# LONDON, GOING HAVANA FRO MADRID 14 JULY. -
GUILLERMO

2. ALSO ON SAiE FLIGHT WIVES AND. CHIL

RUIZ PEREZ (201-735298) aND
LJ ceai-eeieon, feet ‘
“3. PILE 201° HaRKED. GPeI

SECRET

poor aw TO77

: : i : SECRET



DOC BART IOENTIFICATION

TBAT OF 00C.

Tne cuasa ie

SOURCE: INFORMATION

Dare oF Inro.

TEXT OF EXTRACT

Talew ite dec. Gistributlon, Dlesee. No. ote. > it applzcable)

- i RUIZ PEREZ» GUILLERMO
4 201-735296
SEX M 008 ?

CIT CUBA

is : occ ?
* SLATED TO BE RECALLEO TO CUBA

OSMOFPOIROELHMM

C19009-001
WMIM-08160
O7 JUL 70
UFA ~00562
P2

R 7106070271

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No, In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

poastet oF ROT (Lave, Firat, middle)

SECRET

201- DBSR 96



SECRET
‘(open Pitted In)

DOCARNT WENTIFICATION
Dare oF bots = ice cease

SOURCE INFORMATION
Gare oF taro.

Crauation

= TF opplleabte)

doc. dietsibutlon, Diseen. We

—
RUIZ PEREZe GUILLERMO

201-735296
Sex 008.7

CIT CUBA

ere TO BE RECALLED TO CUBA

a 7106091029!
‘ISMOFPOLROELHMM ‘

Indicate The S.tject, Project Or,
201 File No. In Which Thie
Form Is To Se Filed.

ro7 OF 20) (Last, Plret, widdle)

a0

ste 867 : SECRET af



SECRET

ORT tt

UMENT. TRANSFER AND“CROSS' REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
ry
RI FILE NO,

PERTINENT IWF ORATION

|

RUIZ PEREZ, GUILLERNO ¢15-CG9-00L
+ 201-735256 WHIM=CB160
SEX M OCB ? G7 suL 70

GFA -C0562
ciT cuBa mes 2

t Seareo 10 BE RECALLED TO CUBA

7607300682
1 QSMGFPOLRCELHKA

FILE IN 201-P3S2z6

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO,

37 867 vee eoevteus eastiose.

SECRET



pocuve

Peas
BI FILE Mo.

3 BigPAYe= o8 NOUNCE OOC. s¥WOOL nO. [a DATE

oare oF 3 evauaties

To youeen env TO

To. OT escaiwateo iw

Date PaaetanCD

ROCUMENT O15°051T10N

fia. teansrcanco vo
reese

201-815359
i PARI-09562
i G2 JUL 70

7007160602 ;

FILE IN 201-2222

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. co

SECRET eae



‘ecco

CLASEIY 10 Co FREE RO, Lo,

mnt toes rao,

O vives Omen

Screener = :
| PAGE 14 UH/WlaHT 126 SECRET I US 2¢3,-a50y Pee :

: " san eed
MINISTRY. HE WAS LATER named, aw

|arTER

| |awis'seut mene) SSSS«:uniog 1n|
"Is qHaT’ WAS RECRUITED BY)

iat ON HIS RETURN, HE DISAPPEARED, FAILING TO CONE TO WORK
WE supDENZLY

<phase ans

FOR EITHER|
: : REAPPEARED ABOUT..TWO MONTHS AGO TO STUDY virnnes Sw

PREPARATION HIS CURRENT ASSIGHGENT, RUMOR IN q

CIRCLES IS THAT HE RECEIVED | |TRAINING DURING PERIOD

- HE OUT OF CIRCULATION, : ee
Le EXPANSION OF INFLUENCE IN
SUBY SAID HE KWEY OF Nol |PLaus Tw THIS REGARD. HE he ; ae!
SAID THAT HE KNOWS GUILLERNO RUIZ PEREZ VELL AND

” Ay aay
CONSIDERS HI DGI.: (WILL DEBRIEF SUBJ Ot Pag) WW
QUSIDERS HIF _DGI~: 7 :

SUBY DOES NOT KNOW
SUBJ EXPECTS RELATIONS WITH TO

DETERIORATE BECAUSE

UUFORTUNATELY DID-NOT GET DETAILS RESOLUTION.)
DELEGATION Had GOTTEN INSTRUCTIONS FROM

Fees

PE Shee paar



L0G/0PS :
CAINE BECMUEAMIAE OUSEERINATION
wb (CO rne mes rine wo:

os LJ moc Cy nowoce [J nevunn ro owncn rue ao :
TON, 1 7 ‘ms i issue
Chit-9 [Ble ve SEs a Spa: fen, CME, gaat
Tanna : ite ana Cine i : a ia
cae “e1G? 382dan cue omecror 47881

AyY4

A)

‘
a
2
a

r :
MADRID nro: wi/sramr = PATIS
aT . :
“TYPIC QUDOZE :
REF; . OSMA-26240 (Aer SCVT PARIS)” :

1, IN REF QUDOZE REPORT NO 314-OF 5 MAY AMAUTO-1 HAS VERY

“INTERESTING CONVERSATION WITH UNIDENTIFIED WOMAN WHO APPARENTLY

JUST ARRIVED MADRID FROM CUBA AND PLANNING STUDY IW ALCALA, UNIVERSITY
OF SANTANDER, AND LATER IN PARIS. :

ERSATION BETWEEN SUBJECTS, UNIDENTIFIED WOMAN IS
[AND

2. ACCORDING CON’

PCC MEMBER, PLANS MAINTAIN CONTACT WITH CUBAN EMBASSY.
WILL POSSIBLY SERVE AS INFORMER/SPOTTER ANONG UNLVERSITY STUDENTS,
AMAUTO-1 ASKED SUBJECT LEAVE MAILING ADDRESS AND PROMISED FUTURE
SN'S FEDERATION,” UNFORTUNATELY SUBJECT'S

2 CONTACT BY "PARTY WOM.

ADDRESS NOT MENTIONED, ADDITIONAL CHECK OF HQS QULOZ /QUTIMID INKO

FAILED MENTION ANY SUBJECT POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITII THIS WOMAN,
3. VIEW POSSIBILITY DGI PLANNING US@ SUBJECT AS COLLABORATOR
ASSISTANCE IN

WHILE SHE IS ABROAD, QS WOULD APPRECIATS|

ATTEMPT ESTABLISH HER IDENTITY, RESIDER GH) ACTIVITIES, AND
{a beh
E IN-PLACE RECRUIT!

yk

AUTHCATIONTING
onricen’

IQOl= T3FT2GH

copy HO,

POSSIBL,

ADDITLONAL INFO FUR ASSESSMENT

3
RELEASING OFrICER : [ SECRET 7 ee,

REPRODUCTION AY OTHCR THAN THE ISSUE



wessace FORM
OFAL COPIES!

“cAULE SECRETARIAT DISSEALNATION | Ty wox Chromo C] ncruswro i pmanen_ C] rattan
oy___——____- pra 2! £9 rine in 8 rite no.
5 i! —.
eon iy
5 rne. va, ont
Ciasntcaiond Toate ond time tod), ror) ameep —
SECRET cive oinECTOR (4 5 /
we 7 ae
page TW eee i
TARGET.’ NO. OBJECTION STATION QUERYING LIAISON.
4, FILE 201-735296.
: END OF MESSAGE
+ WH/COG/COMMENT: QUDOZE info on conversation botwoun AMAUTO-1
- and unidentified wonan who appears fully integrated :
Vith Cuban regime and offers collaborate with DGI :
while studying abroad, i
, LY,
: A ef *
‘ oC Foe NO/WH/CO Lf, ‘
2 JOHN SHERWOOD! . WiLita V, GROE 5
2 C/EUR/F1/CX EUR/IB C/N 2
1 m t
ncvensing OFFICER

RCPROOUCTION HY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING CFFICE 1S PROHIBITED, copy no.



rome ye USE PRE WiOUS

— =. EDITIONS —
=)
0
: e-

cL aiwer ro €8 FILE NO.

P ee a
mer tocemens i

© pict
um [One ns O acre re \ ee geacen :
¢ cR
8 alan, €uro.,cuciloes Frac

€ T
a.) SECRET 2616202 JUN 70 CITE MADRID (as Vode | 1 1882

DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI fy
© ‘ryprc anauto awoze Eee age Cote
° lec IVAN RU LZ. VECIANA, SON OF GUILLERMO RUIZ
Yor PEREZ (201-735296), LEFT FOR HAVANA 24 JUNE WHERE WILL f

ATTEN SCHOOL.

¥ \ ty
2. FILE 221-735298 GP+1 : ae

fie aa aa Se ea
o-
©
c
aq
in
&
©
G
c
© ‘i 201-9 35 Abb
sc, a whl, : i
i 26 Sendo



c
©
Coot
¢

‘
©

-® @© 6 @ O20 B.A ¢

Pe

SSSSSESEP PS SEESCSSESSEas=ssen""20=S=5=00=2205==5!

2, Ayftsy, EUR b F120), aie
: 2h kn LETS 23—__-

SECRET 2610232 JUN 79 CITE MADRID ({468 >
: Efe i s

Director info wwitf /
TYPIC AMAUTO QuDOZE Fare / Lut
TYPIC AMAUTO QUDOZE “Praaree
REF? MADRID 1457, (v7 //0236) UT : PCIE

t+ 0" 25 JUKE (CONFINED THA, GUILLERHO “RUT Z PEREZ |

pF (Zor- Valco

ato orestes?’s a (ape Pareo2) AVELING HAVANA 30 JUN

2. RUIZ STILL fy pousT AS TO PURPOSE OF. CONSULTATION
BUT EXFRESSED WORRIES TO WIFE THAT SOMEONE IN HAVANA ~

MAY BE _W:DERCUITING HIM. .

3
APPARENTLY WAS UNABLE CLARIFY.

wroCaRR Iv 807 24 JUKE?

4. FILE $o1-735296 GP-1
SECRET

Ol- 2252 o/s

Re Jan

og COPY



Sereooucriowe
[ao Ove Om

CLARIFY 70 C8 PLE HO.

eaer'to comiewo

Gimens O serum to

SE CR ET. 250925¢ JUN 79.-CITE.mADRID,
DIRECTOR INFO WiVMIANE”
TYPIC AMAUTO quDozE

le, <GULLERMO. “RUIZ PEREZ (201-735296)
[eet -821098) corns To Havana soon IW

RESPONSE TO 24JUNE PHORE CALL In Doust ..
WHETIER PURPOSE RELATED TO ADVANCED DATE OF JULY CHIEF
OF MISSION MEETING OR SPANISH-CUBAN RELATIONS. SPECULATION
MADE THAT IT” COULD RELATE TO RECENT REQUEST FOR ANBASSADOR
TO FINAN TO TRAVEL HAVANA. RUIZ PLANS TO DISCUSS WITH
[| edon-ati8iiy ubSe arrive mario
EN ROUTE PARIS ON 2a JUNE.

2. FILE 201 AS INDICATED,
SECRET

GP}

MICROFiLMED
JUL7 WO

DOC. Micro. ser,

C3 Grey
B2CI- 821 CCD

B20- SUSIE SECRET

7 Of -

25. duns 1

0636...
ea

25 fom 70

P35 LE


MME BER EARR TOT! — SIRRGINLRE Neri RRTUNR eM!

5

eae ata ey

eo Asn

‘Dt

a Ag

O-e Oo @

Fo et mee acrsaecaee dy

Pree ne.

sh RET eai2i2Z JUN 7% CITE wADRID. 1440
DIRECTOR INFO WH/MTAIT

RYBAT TYPIC GUDOZE

1. GUDOZE REPORTS 18 JUNE FALL CUIEG

ITEXS:
he iH (Z01-735296) AND WIFE
eVGING 26 OR 2i JULY FCR

OF MISSION LATTER HALF JULY.

MEETING CHIZFS

B.  PERSOW CURRENTLY CHIEF OF SecRETARIAT

Ld cots ro vaRsaie

ce CTHER DATe AXAITING
2} JUK@ FLIGHT TO HAVANA INCLUDED
= oe
(281-2) (2G1-812118),

(2U1-S14691).

D, SGHE BISCUSSION hELD def WEEN VIFE ANS ABOVE

VISITORS CONCERWING WHO WILL BE EXT BN BASSADCR TO *CROCCO.

TN DOUBT WHETHER WILL be; | SON~IN-LAY CR POSSTELY

SOR-IH-LAW AMGARTINI-1 (2al-278443). (CANNCT CLARIFY SINCE

PaRTICIPANTS-EGUALLY VAGUE.)
2 FILE 21S AS NCTED. GP-1
SECRET

SlCnet,

a


doy GM

SECRET

“W623
22 Iva 1970

#% 2200 Urs oa the ovenins

bi ered

In ald fain
in e straighife

vere. In sore enses, he was given re

end sn addition,

Apart froa the busin:
@oninating theses mumin:

the persoral safety of his feutk- in the US en

his conduct
fi

not

and

istrustful of his inventions.

“A. In corly 1969, ae eared to te Chiet|

nile no every questioa-=
Lu re najority

offered severed vor’

ts of the seeting, there vere tro

et Mis pes:

ant ‘gtend ‘that: efter
he had te prove his worth and

0 the pavers that

confused, but.
ie intel
Ie denies

Evo man,

\ Be wren :
\ Immediately. veon!, id has not ber
: since, sed Read cf $ af
: as 2 reviecemant. =
j his wire hoho ven
/ secre her to be an i

Cc. Inc, lete Petrvary or ety

Te OF PA 42830

‘eont as vel,

He has not teen heard

SECRET



os : tre _ : Fase 2

telk thet he v1 not rote.

pass. *

1 @- LW Pedzea
Reval stout
rter he errived[ |
rave

Bes
Mend they hind to
he cowddn't fool:

ctioned prosinently
his status, atter
t role.”

© help
peblications available.



Cad

eanda—|

ing ‘down. other
Accepted an invitation
{201-735296) -

: -(201-785124) and his wif
- “RWig “depressed the AMNARTINI couplé as intelligent: and
eet fino. talked-very favorably of the U.S., especially
ark City for: which. he ‘had great admiration. .“Ancricans
“are very bad", ke Said, “but they have’ very good things."
et*s-z0 to New York", he Said at one point, causing /

_|.a good revolutionary, some discomfort. He never had
troublé “in the five years he spent in ‘the. States, Ruiz said
at another point in the conversation.

2 ered is a "great apple polisher", according to the
AMVARTINI couple, and he was hard put to know what to say
when ‘the “Ambassacor", his boss (indirectly) spoke so favorably

of the U.S. ANMARTINI-1's wife, on the other hand, said that
having a Somewhat similar problem with

ee pe expecting again at the tame and
:

after five boys uggested that she (Nilda) probably
wished for a gi! tall", said ‘Nilda. "I don't want
a daughter of mine go into agricultural work at fourteen i
years of age", she exclaimed setting| back,  AMYARTUNI-1 E
pointed out that the Ruiz couple has a I4 year-old son in Cuba --
a “hostage” while they are abroad. They might be willing to
defect, according to ANMARTINI-1, if it weren't for leaving the

_ boy in Cuba.

Distribution:
2 - C/VHD +... continued

2 - C/EUR
2 - COS, WH/Miani

§70553 ..

‘eaten gwaae aco mivaEl

Cs Coby fl Ln sto!

a Tencnedig

_—OSMA_=_ 2!

201-788424



|
i

prone

OSXA + 26343

3. Incidestally., AXNSARTINI-1] said that he was

Surprised vo learn that -Rusz had been Vice-minister of

e1gn Trade before Coming to Spain. Ruiz ninself
meatzonéd it casually one. day. :
a. :

Ber ta » -Réginald .N. FLOREGA

a}-735296



CABLE SECRETARIAT-DisseaNaTION-_— Fassimeo Message: ti fe i poo
Fewer honnas > as

cuamry fo ceemene.

we Wir aenne
Des fra Exess
ee oe Oe) Z emacn

ofS CR.

malar vo come me

“SECRET 13113@ sun 70 CITE MADRID 7389 ON

- = 7) aaa acne LT a cats! 06027 \?

DIRECTOR INFO MANAGUA, SAN JOSE, Samia MT, MEXEC

TYPIC Quy ID \y Avoinl -
1 ane 7

~ caLLED, | OW 25 OR 26 APRIL.RE EQUESTING PERSOR: NG PERSONAL

ar 7 cent. Septic! Aol Sekpe?

INTERV IEW WITH AMAUTO-1 FOR WHOi WO LETTERS.

te ache GY 01" PIF LIL
ca = siesta SAID HAD BEEN DEPORTED FROM WHERE JAILED FOR

a 7
“POLITICAL. REASONS". WAS REFUSED ASYLUM[ _|AND Piisecsgesl

very —~*~éid OR 2S PRD, CC~“‘CSCSC‘*@d

SELF AS MEMBER oF

WHO SPENT | DEPART ING| Of 9 JANUARY
pe 19696
WHO ANSWERED PHONE TOLD TO CALL

FOLLOWING MORNING FOR INTERVIEW WITH AMAUTO- 1.

2. NO STATION TRACES. LIAISON BEING QUERIED. PLEASE
SEND TRACES,

3. FILE DEFER. GP-1
SECRET

20/- BES,
'S Copy 5 2 :
SECRET ine i
1% Jun 10



‘APPROVAL, RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT RETORN
‘CONCURRENCE INFORMATION

Remarks:

Corres mee FIR Foals
sw) Pte ©

pro ppm Jew

2 we Brepe'Z% Kaw Praesens

wes worniee POier IS Kocwe ec,
Be preeracn Ruiter US Sety z
Conte yeve O6C~ CR rar Rawr
Teme faa 8 Crmetl Weeterlrorale

Litem

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME. ADORESS ANO PHONE NO.

Au rsfraa
CONFIDENTIAL.

ream 30.

no? 237 itd

renee, “|



| Report No. 3k : : 1" June 1970

uate an \Ruiz dictates to. Niles
; of Poroiin Affairs and has-tho pleasure to request the corre
ieee Doneing perslasion to carry'a.pistol, "Star" ¢ nm,short, No.50,
: i 23h, wich at the present tine 1a being held in the offteas

“of the "Stan" factory, in the Plaza de anata, for ie
tient photograph -{s attached.
: F (4 gt; '
ame |
aor

ae | : 7
Ruiz is talkins with a Cuban who fs in Madrid ona scholarship,

‘{ They.are taliing of brinaing’a teacher fron Cuba and Rutz
says that this would:be very difficult, He says that instruction

» ds given iy professors, but oducation 13 en by the parents, .
- ard what the childron will be devends on tls education,
Ruiz says that his fathor rade Nim a eommunist. Of all the

7 ren, he was the only one that studied, but tt was his

father thot formed then all, From the tine he was a small

child his father gave him hooks of Lenin to read, Thesoa books

arrived clandestinoly to Cuba, Hoe remarts about -~roblems his

own children have piven hin, He refers to an ine

one of the children was invited to a Pirst Cormu : _

Sneaks of the freodom ha Gave the child to mb

Communion also, if he wanted to, i

Then Ruiz says that his other son "ALEJANDRO, is {nelined to
romein in Spain, and he ts willing to let him ir tris ts what
the boy wants, He says t these tines have to come from
gene's own self, and if they aro opposed in these actions it
can leave marks on them for the rest of their lives, Rutz
Says ho gives then the liberty to choose,

student with whom he 49 conversine thaty a

Ruiz to
has fone to tho United Sates, and adda unay
wife never came to neetines or reunions that
- Were hold at tho ombansy ave as an ovcuse that
her nerves vere bad, took the

with him,
: —

This comrade(F) left at 12:15, He said foacbye to her very é
condialiy. Apparently arofind the 29th of the month one is
going to Paris,

Later 2uiz ontered the office asain and nit the rad!o on very
loud

He didn't leave the office ali morntna, bit the radio
inued to play very loud} so mich so that fou can hardly

tell when anyono goes in or out of the of tee. ;
Rerort 345 18 June 1970

Apparently they havo received a document in which all the Chtefs

of Mission have been called to Cuba for the third week of July,

as some of then can make it coincide with their leavo, Hoe taxis
Gurbelo that he intends to send Nilda either befo-e or after he

6avas,



i
i

“18 June 1970

Ruiz aod Wilda axe alone and are-talkin= about when they can
leave Spain, Ruiz. wants here to coon Iberia, but nilda
S878 she-docsn't want :to co sengrately. If he roes on Cuban
she will go with hin, Milda speaks of che 18th ‘of July flest
and says that the Minister has been so nice to hin that he —
shouldn't miss: this Spanish holiday, They then discuss
ving for Havana onthe 20th om 2ist of July.



s

eS
gy
5)

ce

-

=e

refugees’ fn Mianl,

ine

ened

one closely, Because it sho:

18 June 1970

f ;
Nilda speais to Ruiz about soneone that spoke to her«thet wants
to stay in -Madrid for a few days, but they don't have any money,
(Possibly is| sand they nave asked her if-they can stay
at her housé. It seems that the peovle she ts talking about are
on their way to Cuba, and they say,if they don't have the money
to stay in Madrid,. then le} them go dirictly to Cuba...

Nilda says that mg peahetegiew 13 gotnn to Morocco a2
Cuban-embassador, The-one tliat he had as his secretary.

When| Mas he said that the son-in-law had
neither the personality nor the qualifications for the position,
Ruiz says that if they are roferring to the head of

office, that née is.coinr | | but Nilda
insists that 4t {3 the husband of | Maurhter.

[Two comredés arrive, a man anj.a woman, They are going toe
Holland, where they will spend a week, and they want a visa,

They will ro to other Nurovean countries also, and will be a
month and a half al.together.(It seems that it is only the wonas
that is going to Holland and the other countries), Ruiz asks

her if i¢ is her first trip to lurope. She says it is her first
trip to Western Europo, but that she has alroady been in the
socialist countries’ of Europe, Ruiz asks ther what Havana thought
about ‘Rutz says it isn't worth hav'nc an arvument

or quarrel with the because of Ruiz
vellfeves that the whole af"alr was handled by “he C.T. A.

Ruiz asks them who has ‘eon raned| CSC ane Shey”
confirm the fact that the husband of his daurhter has
deon apnointed. :

They return to the tortof Rulz says the only thing
they know is thet he has “one, but they dontt know where. In
any case, most likely they had family or friends anong the

the «irl if there are new veople in the Ministry

Ruiz ask:
there (Havana-?), if new,ones are coming in. She says that her

the enterprise, that the personnel situation is very bad, Two
days ago they started civing lan«ua;e clesses in French and German,
and they talked with| land ha believes tt 1s very necessary,
because !t is very difficult to find people. In addition to their
being of trust, wat is difficult is teir Jaci: of culture,

\ $ enterpriso has 71 omployeos, and that 55 of them are outside of
i) «

Again thoy discuss case and sis wife. - They tell
Ruiz not to be too discourarel because it is the “irst time that
anythiny, Bike this hapgned to nim here, Ruiz tells them about
the fllness of the woman, and that she never wanted to cone to
the meetings, but on the other hand went to meetincs and eath~
erings of cormercial people and others, He was never suspicious
of hin, Iwo days Wefore ne had been in the stucy. Center with
all,of them, Ruiz says that it had besn six months since they



abstitute for but only because
of his administretive ind? cleners a for no other reason,
If Ruiz had suspected anythii he wovld have pvt him on a *
ane and sent hin back there. : -

A person fron the cores into the a raees
He has sone business to do with me
They hope: thst wilh arrive on, Taursday, as they
have many things to vor’ ont torether rerardine

Charber of Corzerce He sveat:s about

and a problen that they "ave with tho trend name, “ile gays ‘it
would be better to nostnone the process ani continue oxnorting
seanwhilo to -until it £9 all settled,

He has visited. “he Chamber of Commerce He has

eaten-and had supper with some of the peonle fron there. He
mentions to whom he and have siven a
an a [6 rs @ problon thet an are wth. the

Chamber of Cormerce can be rosolved by a simple diploma‘ie
festure, Second, the individual that has an interest in tt,it is
ap tc bby Tire, the problen can he solved by establishing
another Ghambor of Coziorce This however, would
involve spending and would not be worth it to them economlenlly.

told hin that he wanted to fo to Californita. le wants to
be close to Cuba and learn tho ruture development of the :
Cuban production,

Nilda says thet they hevo received a call from Paris telling
then the lcft there and will arrive in Madri¢ at
2thS PM. Ruig asks if they sent the cable Vilda
says that thoy nave, but that no one ansyered the cable. They
have received only ona cable saving that he was
coning, Then they sont another cable back aslin- on what
Flight, and on what day, but they have had no answer.

Report No. 36

fer Rutz! of hen is callei (ph)
They aro discus cee he has Deen very
hurt by it all, not only politically, Sut personally also, He
says that he always folt that |was a person one could

trast, and that he has failod them, Ruiz says that hero everyone
trusted hin. ,


vartterlarjy the visitors,
Ruiz anys shat “after nis they are maing to have Yo stnenrthen

the cacros, that it is fmoortant for everysno. ‘6 says he has
spokon to (phon), end ‘they arreed to
orn new very strict-cadres,- --- - serene

The Visitors. leave. and’on sayiny roodbye Rutz says not to
discuss the affat tr too much so that it won't spread

any further, Sestdes, they are oll very immressed by tt
pee gE ndiele Gib dae

on the telephone, Ruiz asks hin-tf he
Jat tho Netol and if he has seen (phon).

s staying at the sane lotol as “Ruiz says thst

hos just beon therg, and he nas riven hin the tolenzone
nanbor of the hotel for hin to call. Ho says they have had no word
on tho-Cubana flivht, only thet it is to arrive today and will
leave tonight. -But, Wufz says 1f it arrives at 3 o'clock that .
this will not give then time to tnspoct it and a1] to leave,

even thouph they will do it all at night. -Both and
Pree “Mare leaving, tris ovening onl |

Ruis then spvaks with end says that he had heard of his
es that is

: Paieretien appointment | Apparently tiis is the one
% : be Thoy say that ti:ta in all the

that ho is moln: to, is viaited by the best “octors, Rniz
eet Me et tells thom that he has a luncheon enj-arenent but thot ho will
ate ¥ keep in touch rogarding the flirht.

Renort 10,348 :
thet has fugt arrive eater tho

office. We was at the movics last nf ht and they comment on it.

Then two other persons core in, one of them 1s

They speak of various i inns; that by diplomatic nail “hey

stould only send thin-s of a confidential nature, everything

else should 0 by diplomatic pouche

| whom

enters and sars that |
ou, is here, Hie ts the father of the]

Ruiz does not know :
, Ho says he “Tis neon here 15 days watt or
of

‘Tor sometniny, vo be resolved, He adds that a
was suvposed to resolve. this problori, but she hasn't

done So. He doesn't want to borrow money here, and has
alrendy given hin 1000 pesesas, Ho wants on to send a cable to

Havana to resolve his situation. says that thls
cansul studied ia the University with and that he is a
very ‘ine person,



,
Report Noet8 (continued)

they toll Rutz that the person that is here ts| he hasn't
seen hin, ner he received any cable about his arrival.

arry pistols here. Ruiz
watch he can shoot without
they won't kidnap hin, and
aro’ 10,000 fusaras heres

hen the -d@hassacor-acks Ruts if they ¢:
shows hin ona, with five chaxbers, with
taking it out of his-neeket. Ho says
that one has to be prersred for the

Y Ruiz. tells the ambassdcor to consy1t with land tell. hin that

he has received a cable tellin; hin to be tn Havana the second

week of July, but-that the National Day, in Spain is on the 1fths
He says that he docsntt want to miss this celebration, because

Anistor of Foreicn Affairs came totheir fl dhe

‘cut the reunion in Havana and ell that, ©
d-they corld think 3: metiing else. - So that he is thinking

f staying even if he nas to leave the very next day on the 19th.

Report. Ho. 349

Some comradea arrive, It appears to be
calls | jand conf irrs reservations for the afternoon flirht

to in the fares of | eam
So asks wiat-time they should be in the airport in order to
yeeveon the six o'clock fiicht. They tell her they should be

there an hour before Slight times

Ruiz begins to dictate. the following to Nilda, in a very low voico
“pg enlarse further on the 3 report dated 7 of the _current mont

resarding my meeting with _ :
iene ‘in relation tv the request of /
7

[for contracting

(eile eeeneaasenes we wish to inform you that today we
resolved a teleshone catl from the “xecutive Officer to the
(reaeeceaeasenrcanteetieeaeol Mele pnerrec me that cur request for!

technicians fa still bein: cvnsidered, but that ve Minister of = /
Labor and the rovernment wisnes to corminicate offi
ly to my Goveranont, cial displeanure with the pos-

tion adopted by th representation in the last meeting
of the|- tne (ardor a sronosition that interferes in
the internal affairs oy, “Unfortunately the Minister of
Labor had confirmed hi Fecuest of our representative tn
sentradicted’tie eftorta that were being ade at hich
levels of our countries for betterment of our relations, and
the cooperation, and for brotherhood, that should exist
between two peoples of “he sare blood.

v
a ,

My total lse!: of Knewledce of wat took place in
Min regard to Snain, and ce position taken by
precludes e Cron answering with accurecy, lin
ge saying thet I would pass on the words. of C

that an explanation of the problom woulc ® Givens

our delegation,
ing myself only,
\and

a

—_——


a this sauce date I recotved word fron our
advising that he has observed \a
Interost in the industrial circles with which we:

~ between the Govern: and the Gove
- ‘which 1s holding back.trade with our -countr Snecifieally,

some tndustrialists have advised our representative that the Min-

istry’ of Commerce has spread the word that until certain

talks aré held betwaen the.two rovernments anthorization of

permission Of “imsort' with #st {nation have been suspended.

We are attempting to confirm this today and learn if there
exists some relation with wnat we have been advised by the.

Ministry of Labor,

We would appreciate 1t preatly if you would, as soon 63 noss=
ible, inform us what the of our Covernment Lie in the
meeting of _ :
Dear | I_beg’ you to see that tis |

Ruiz tells thet ho should tell that "we are
willing to chan:o our| land to give us blank models
of both in order to

study them end compare them with those used hy other
countries,



2h Juno’ 1970

Report }

Ruiz asks | aveltt they have reserved tickets for him and
aveltoen called from Havana by telephore, The

eae : tickets are to be rved for the two of then only, not for
ee aaeie Athe wives, neither [OF Nilda.

Rutz says that’ is'to arrive today on h y tol |
and they will See what he has to say about ¢ ts (the coll from
Havana), “hey don't. know: if the ‘call from flavana is for the
essaiors meeting which will be held now, or only for the
two of thom to discuss:.gonetiing related to Spain.

gays that that is maybe why the ‘ambassador of [asked
for reservations yesterday. -

Ruiz continues to tal with the new person that has arrived.
He cays that ho hac had to ro to the Hotel “Conde Duque to

: atk Eee the crew of Cubana, who have never once cume to the
yu 4\erbassy, althouh sometimes’ sono of thon are here for a weoks

te oot yr” they dontt attond the study circles, the reotincs, nor anything. ,

. ud They havee complained about Ruiz because sonetines they have
yw learned of receptions. that have taken place and thoy haven't
Seed Invited, Rulz.says that if at theso receptions they Invited

een atrial and commercial people, or even ciltural people, they

‘oald fet nothing done here. When they give a reception ibis |

Recanse of work, to naintain contacts, find things out, and not |

for any othor nurposa. Thoy have nothin to do theres and he

ts not voing to invite them to just core and eat and drink

Whon they have to snond some posotas they do it, but for questions

MP work. Nevertheloss they have the obliration to maiotein j

: ceatacts. Rutz has sometimes mot these people on the strook,

especially the air-stewardesses, with some "pick-up", and althourh!]
all the people they are friendly with are very nice people, |
they should know who thew people are.

Ruiz then explains to this new comrade the problem of the location
Ree erenpasey. lie tel hin that they are building a now embaosy
ora ne the services will be together. Thore will also be sone
comminity rooms, such as a library, a recreation recom & dining
room with a.bar, that thoy will all have a chance to sees but
fois is going to take nrobably a year. It will be 0° Avonida
a Neanas Meanwhile they arc putting un with this, place
because they only pay 850.00 for it, and lavana finds its a rift.
If they wore paytng.2500, by now they worl in't be hore; they
Gould Have found sone other place, ‘Ther have the place rented
Stneo 1936, and evon thourh they have spent nore than a thongand
{or one haréred thousand) in fixing it, it 19 still an old honse.

With this new arrival he talks about the childven, and the problens
they have with the schools. They nave to find schools where
they don't teach relinion nor politics.



a”

Reoort Mo.350 (continued) 2h June 1970

It seoms that thoy would lite to brine # professor fron Havana,
80 thet the children could study the saze revolutionary netnods 7

as thero, but Ruiz sees this as a very 2ifficuit thing to do.

Because,cone would not solve the Situation of the different

grades and anes, and they.are not. going to send four or five

because they are nreded there. He sees it as a better possibil-

itysto hire Spanish proféssors ong the younr canable people,

with révolutionary leanings ahd wis are sinpathetic toward ee
Cubans, and have them teach the methods,and from books that are

brought from there. In thia way they could have many professors

or teachers for the various aves, and they conld rent and

. furnish an apartment for this purposes

Apparently ‘tuiz has no problems

with the’ serool his children attend. The Dircctor of the school
is a friend of theirs and visits the embassy, Her hustand {sa
communist. The children that attend the school have the some polftical
jJeanings as their parents, Noither relision nor. politics are

taught. Rutz says that the two oldor ones eat at the scmonl, but

the little ones don't as need help, Rutz nays ovar %100 for bh, -
The person who is with him has two children and pays S100 for the

two.

7 The children of this new comrade that !s. telking to Ruiz arrive

day after tomorrow, He has a littlo rirl 11 years old ani the
other one {s nino. Ruiz is advising the com-ade to send hie

children to the samo s his children fo, The name
of the school is in Gi etueeeeaeae
He says he will be pias to speak to the Director, Thay havo

sports, and music, and tho children can mavo lunch at the school.

ort Mo.352 : 25 June 1970

He is talking, with and they enter the office and
continue tho conversation. They are speaking in confidential
voices, because normally talks very loud, they are
now talking in vory low voices, is trying to consale
hin, sayin; that his work is very difficult and little under-
stood, Ruiz says that thoy are"throwing him the bait.”

He 18 very dopressed,

Re.

Tomorrow he has an 2nnointaent «ith publishine comnany,
about the rirchts

wh» have had a nest pI
of the -son;: watch was acknowledved {
by an Fr and {t's author as bein,
‘ab a reunion that vas ‘elo there, In the
United Stetes alone there are rirhts (or royalties) of over
£50,000,  They-are tryin to establish d&fin‘be authorshin for
this Cuban, so that he will be able to collect some of the



1

-10-

ort 351(continued) :
yalties from the song throuchout the world, which have been
calculated at botween £750,000 and’ “1,000,000, and althourh
this amount will have to be divided among many thinrs, something
would fall to them,

Ruiz says to-work ‘abroad they have to or should send people of
the greatost trust, otherwise it ts better t hat they remain in
Cuba, If there isn't. coriplete confidence it. is a-constant
-stfughle with the canita ife, money, the stores, the easy
life. They-méntion and Ruiz says if he's gone hets
gone, but the inter would be to Know what motivated
himg his wife, his son, ‘or money. He says that {t has caused
a.great impression here, and that no one even’ inarined such a

Y¥ two days before he had beon in the study circle

thing.
with all of them.
A girl thst is in this noetine w: b 's that. A
dau.ht ted to” who is
that ho has been pronosed for ambassador (Ruiz

Says that thoy will now have to reconsider t-is), and what they
alt tikes acres on a thee, was nof €0 blane,

Ruiz mentions the letter from son in which ho says that
his father has betrayed then. hey also mention an ambassador

who ‘has left(for Cuba-?) and took watches as sifts to everyone

in the Ministry, Ritz thinks that soms of them will. remain here
in Spain as they have a great deal poing for them there,

Report _No.352 26 June 1970

Ruiz! is very displeased, He speaks to about how badly
some of the comrades speak of him when they return to Havana,
He asks him if he rezembers the name of one of these comrades
that spoke badly of him last summer waen he was there on vaca-
tion. It was someone named and another one that soon left,
After what said thoy wrote hima letter calling his atten-
tion to the c#iticism, Ruiz is very worried about his re-call
to Havana, I!o 3 that tie doesn't think {6 ts abni

A{S Work, and says they are doing things there th at are
Supéer-hunan, that without tho necessary teans at hand they are
resolving difficult problem of varlous kinds. Ruiz mentions
contacts,that he has had in Spain with different poople, and he
never has cormitted an error, and has always handled everything

with creat tact and in favi his governzent, even when he has
had to deal with Een

Ruiz says that ho {s very s-nsitive and that things have got to
the point that he can't just let thom ro by, thinra they are _
accusing him of in Havana. But, there 1s no one Ehat has the
éourage to tell hin directly to his face so that he cowld

justify hins-:1f, and if they are things that he cannot handle then
for them to call hin back, and relieve him of the post because

"Corr andante - Guillermo Ruiz cannot resolve then, but the thing ts



<l1-

: (continued)
: er doesn't want to receive him or listen
Cine hiri when he coes thores |says thst the worst of

7 : {s that here in Spain thare Is always. sone porsonality f
: ! that they have to-e.tertain, someone innortant, and.that the
partes Gee attention they -need-is continual, and ssretines- it is necess- a

ary to attend to the people hera tn Snain, wich prevents

) then fror.attending- those whe arrive fron there, but +

m don't understand tis. ~ :

and he ts indicnant,
Revelution since he was t.
for himself. He sars
ther, that ts, but_the Cutan

that the situation is Beconins so

ne doesn't like it at all.

has anfall he care possible : r

He continues to talk-with

: he belongs to
fd  eommant, . Fe say
: uncomfortable rerardinr hii
ee He says he :puts everything }
: into doing his Job. °°”.

no varty,

a

: Ruiz says that one never knows about these things in Yavana,
and that it is possible that he won't be returning,..In the
event that this should happon, he is going to leave

officially in charge, so thst he will represent hin durias
his abscer and if he returas he will
notify the [government officia tly.’ He wants sormles
: or models of the passports to tale with him, and then he
ary Jeg tells that {f he has aot returned by the 18th of
July, that he should represent hin at the official recestion.
He gives instruct ‘ons as to wast to wear, what the

official coreronies are and just wnat they consist of,

Report Ho.35u_ 30 Juno 1970
Ruiz spraks to someone that calls and gives him a mossac

wa i 2 sailed ie terete cereal
ee ET py ——

uso “boric acid stoves(?) which they exnort, "her
give him this ressar he neme of

they tan accent, ant say that ther
would take acequate ueasures so that no stove would be

Ruiz says to thet he doesn't have time to take cs

of this matter, and accormany and mo to ‘the

and :ake Gharres about the
with the trade hetwesa

nt up as far as the Ceneral
z necessary, not ec the "boric acid” ons way,
or another, but simpl. s efo: nich was

msde in the nane of Pais can
cause a delay of six or eight dava in the departure of a
while this call is being exnlained in Public Health,



Cc SEGRE T 41817312 guy 78 CITE MADRID’ 1364
DIRECTOR INFO WH/M% TAME
TYPIC AMECRU ANSOUR .
REF: Hanan lesr(nlo $4 220, ‘
LISTED 0% MANTFES)

o

Pr hee le NAMES AME CRUST AID YT

€ FLIGHT 10 JUNE BUT

FLIGHT’ 17 JUNE.

TAR HED "NOT ABOARD, NEXT

a. REPORTED 13 JUNE CONVERSATION

FROM UHIDSUTEFIED

He 1 WHICH

AMAUTO=1 SAID WHER HE Seu aMECeU-1[ ‘| LATTER
¢ HAD MENTIONS) HIGH ESTELA HCLNS FCR AMAUTO-1,
BOTH AGRESDD TO INVITE ANEC2U- 1 TO LUACH UPON HIS

€

typ reTy. mo traces

C 3. FILE 221-26186355~

ln SECRET :
¢

Le

c

©.



ARIAT DISSEMINATION “= C UASHRIEOMESSALE_——"TOTAL COPIES > —

SECRET

hen Filled tn)

1

THe DISAPPEARANCE OF AMMARTINI-1. aMONS OT!

+

RYBAT TYPIC AMMARTINE QuD0ze
LPEFs nape 131200/0072S-

NOW I JUNE GRLERMO fu rz DICTATED esPoRT FO
THINGS» REPORT

SAID FCLLOVING: SUBJ DEMONSTSaT= ic 1NCAPARLE HANDLING JOB;

Had NC. KNOWLEDGE FOREIGN TRADS. OFFICIALS SO INFORMED

AND MSD ADMITTED THESE FACTS,

LACE SUBJ. NO EVIDENCE
OF POLITICAL DEVIATION, Howsvss, CzPT O” ONE OCCASION HaD

SPEAT TOO MUCH OW CLOTHES FoR cy RATION OF FIESTA NACIONAL.
HIS NIFE DID NOT ATTEWD WOMENS FEDEL Ss Ee" “EETINGS AND YAS NOT
MoeN aL. SUBU WAS SUPERFICIAL ¥ITY VIS SUPPLIERS. YHAT IS

MORE,

4 DRANK IN EXCESS, AFT? LEARNING sueu's

SCT IN AACE: ITEMS WERE

ANALYSIS SHOWED HE HAD PLANN=D TY
THAT ONE OF HIS CHILDREN LEFT car ‘Ys HIS WIFE 4aD REMARKED

THAT SYZ HAD DONE MUCH FOR REVOLUTION, ber

EVOLUTION Ow
HER SOMETHING; 48D SuBU'S DISTANCE (OR STRANGENESS) WITH RESPECT

Bi ie FILES Ymrate-/
SECRET.



Secrd ramiat Oise MNATION-— CLASSIFIED MESsAG-—— TOTAL-COPI

eS, ROUTING ANOOR

Fase SREY SECRET

(Shen Filled In)

wer or Ces Donen

Ove Ove

ov te SP Ts ee

» [Orca me GO neruey 10 pe enn ce

pense oy OR

iain 3] pri, vR

eTew ne

PAGE 2 MADRID 1350 SE CRET Seseeearseeteate shoae
HIS DISAPPEATANCE WAS-9,UUNEs. HAD BEEN CALLS TO |
OFFICE THAT SUBJ WAS VISITING OTHER “CITIES ON BUSINESS. SUBJ
D1, NOT APPEAR AT WORK $ JUNEs nnn aaa EAL een
To| |AT suad"S HOME BUT LATTER Wad NOT SEEN MIM LEAVE.
: ENTERED

WHEN FUNCT LONAR IES
HOUSE, NOTHING THERE. aLSO[ [EY BOX, CONTENTS UNKNOWN,
MISSING. HAVE BEGUN PROCESS TO NOTIFY, __— [AUTHORITIES

oF DISAPPEARABE. RUIZ’ WIFE SAID THAT SUBU'S DAUGHTER ALSO
OUISIDE CUBA REPRESENTING. SOMETHING. RUIZ LATER tool
GHECS ETS ernie) CHAT: SUBS Had TAKEN OFFICE FUNDS AND WAS PROBABLY
IN MIAMI OR NEW YORK, HE SLATED SUBU'S WIFE. (SOURCE? eed

i 2. Ac} AND WIFE NOT AWARE DAUGHTET CUT OF CUBA. CUBAN

"OFFICIALS PROBABLY MISTAKEN ON THES ITEM.
3. FILE 2@1-87¢443. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET



ol SAID WILL RETURY TO FIGHT FOR Just capuse.

Crone JEUNE Lamia: erascerien vue
3 Fie see

sae recs mens

meno CO ache ro

SECRET 0514522. JUN. 70 CITE MADR ID 128
ae MADR

DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIANT

‘TYPIC AMAUTO
“REF: MADRID 1281 te osta?
: Jie “FOLLOWING ‘Is SUMMARY OF TWO ‘AND OnE HALE. HOUR
: MEETING BETWEEN SAMKO/AMAUT O- 1.
. : A. .SAMKO PICKED-UP SY AMAUTO-1 IN CHAUFFEUR

‘DRIVEN WeRceDes.
Be. WHEN DISCUSSING FUTURE PLANS, AMAUTO-1

“THAT HE'WILL PROSASLY. DIE FIGHTING FoR| | WHICK
1S YOUNG AGGRESSIVE COUNTRY, BUT NOT PRESS THIS THEME iin SPEAK :
ADVERSELY OF UNITED STATES, SANK DID NOT CHALLENGE

STATEMENT, BUT ADDED THAT HOPES SOYEDAY ANAUTO-1

ASSIGNED TO UNITED NATIONS THUS WILL HAVE OPPORTUNITY > fata
VISIT SAMXO IN FLORIDA, AMAUTO-1 ViSISLY DELIGHTED WITH j

POSSISILITY.
C. THEY EXCHANGED ADDRESSES AND AMAUTO-1 URGED.

SAMKO WRITE, SAMKO HAD PRINTED OUT HIS NAME, ADDRESS

CS copy a
: bilb1- Sbb605 4 SECRET POIA-D BE AVE

£5 Tuen7o


‘ronsscr0=~*C«SE PREVIOUS
we EDITIONS [
Q CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION _CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE TOTAL Copies =

SECRET

(When Filled In)

Ferm NOT

wor Cue, Ow

naEr to ch LENO SSSESUESESES SEESPSSSEESESPELSESSS

Oomeso O senas vo paaven

#] FILE, VR ee

PAGE 2 MADRID 1287 SECRET
+4D PHONE NUMBER, BuT AMAUT O-1 ASKED HIM TO WRITE IT
OuT "UNDERSTAND IT BETTER™ BUT SAMKO AND STATION é ‘

RELIEVE AMAUTO- 1 WILL USE SAMPLE TO COMPARE WITH
LETTERS Sank MIGHT SEND IN FUTURE.
D. AMAUTO-1 REGRETTED THAT SAMKO HAD TO LEAVE

SO SOON BECAUSE WOULD HAVE ENJOYED SHOWING SAMKO

s INTERIOR. SAMKO SAID HE MIGHT CONSIDER RETURNING NEAR”

END:OF YEAR, BUT AMAUTO-1 DID NOT SAY WHETHER HE WOULD

fa “EIN SPAIN AT THAT TIME.
E. AMAUTO-1LADMITTED THAT HE WAS SUSPICIOUS

ON SEEING SAMKO FOR FIRST. TIME ON 31 MAY BUT CONCERN
SOON DISSIPATED, SAID NATURE AND IMPCRIANCE HIS POSITION

MAKES HIM SUSPICIOUS. .
F, REQUESTED SA‘IKO ACT AS INTERMEDIARY 10 U.S.

" FoR SALE FISH PRODUCTS TRANSPORTED FRO4 CANARY
ISLANDS AND MARKED “PRODUCT OF SPAIN". SAID SAiMKO

STANDS TO EARN $1@2,026 YEARLY. SANKO SAID HE WOULD

Qa ‘SAIKG DEPARTED 7 SUNS WHERE

HE VILS GET DIRECT FL_ HT TO NEG “Yorks skPETS F “URW
: *SSCRAT iy.

CONSIDER OFFER.



Be Deemersrenrtuc tte teenseaticee-testeentuned maner voce ec

i — Omens O

Wires ow

au to —_ onan —E

STS |

PAGE 3 MADRID 1287 SECRET
[__evawe. " saitXo. GIVEN DEFENSIVE BRIEFING. WILL
EXPECT NO PERSONAL CONTACT FOR AT LEAST ONE WEEK AFTER

RETURN, |
| _.. $s STATION. BELIEVES SANKO CARRIED OUT MISSION IN
EXCELLENT MANNER AND FEEL’ THAT BASIC OBJECT IVES
SUCCESSFULLY! FULFILLED. :

vi 4, FILE 221-735296 AND 201-866254. GP-1

SECRET

: : SECRET
201-735 246


Oattanus

Soe
[CF ie
: Pay Of LI fe Sepeesssveasstee
CSF, ao ena
"SECRET 0413542 JUN 76 CITE wurntani(irE
_¢ PRIORITY MADRID INFC PRIORITY DIRECTO! Jd
: TYPIC_ANAUTO - : 0°37
fe) 14 O96OU7 Yur: CLS 7.98
REFS: A. MADRID i261 G ; i of
io 5. DIRECTOR. 239497. : ‘ oe
it 4 “ :
Pan 1. ONLY CONCERN WE. HAVE IS SECURITY OF SamKo
» | DURING TRIP SACK TO MIAMI. WOULD APPRECIATE DEFENSIVE
; O° aaterizs By yabRID OF Sako. IT MAY 22 THAT HE APPEARS

VERY INTERESTING AS AGENT POTENTIAL IN STATES. CUR ‘
COMPLIMENTS ALSC.TO SAMKS AND STATION.
2. FILE: 281-735296 AND 251-366054.° GP-1

SECRET

cC MICROFILMED
ha JUN agile
ie
S
i ‘

XO PES 2I6

CA Xue 10

cS cory



Gee: Gre

Ce tiee 0 er eae ne.

|
|
|
| :
1!

wsce tye:

o oOo

49, sees sieraeeeansasa pn

Oh etres 19 ea

FL Of. 7

F422

RET oaizeez JUNE 10 clTe == ACT ING) e

2°. 0

C DIRECTOR INFO WHvMIANI
TYPIC aNauTo : a ee
¢c . . sen J Hd
.. REF: DIRECTOR 039497
Cc 14 SACODER PHOTOGRAPHED SaMxo" 5 ARAIVAL AT aMiauro= 1
Bede “WOME AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS IN FRONT YARD. PHOTOS
2 MIGHLIGHT ACTIVITIES LEADING TO SaMKO"S ENTRY INTO HOUSE.
Ss 2. INTEND SHOW MUG BOOK TO SAMKO AT NEXT NEETING«
OPINION HERE IS THAT ANAUTO- I PROBABLY WANTED COVER :
a2 HIMSELF WITH OWN STAFF AND POSSISLY TO LaY oN SURVEILLANCE
| © TO DETERMINE WHETHER SaMKO WAS BEING DIRECTED AGAINST ,
Lo HIM.
e ~3- AMAUTO-1 DEPARTURE PLANS HIGHT HAVE BEEN CHANGED
/C TO Perwit nin TRavet{ «|For OPENING TRADE
“TI FAIR 3 JUNE AND ALSO To BE PRESENT AT FAIR
e SCHEDULED FOR 14 JUNE. aMauTO-1 REPORTEDLY To
Corin ae log EVENING 5 JUNE,
4+ FILE 201-735296 aup 201-866054. cP-{ micROFLMED
2 SECRET .- JUN 2219/0
re) E DOC. MICRO. SER.

: | oP S-22BS 296
Coy, Mn f- CL a
11 Bro6/-SbCOS#¢ 8 copY 4 Sum 4O

Cc *erenne


Qo Toran creitse
CARL -LUNSFORD/cb [
wt, WH/COG/OPS | _esec

uresiece roan,

am 7144, 1819
we 3 1370 ; 1 -— es
cent 1F DISSEMINATION Di woex © no noe OD rewnn ro eranen,- (] me mio
Spee peg cig O me mes rue no. Oe eee
On

Wy Al} mem Etyt-S edn, dof Aue Pes )oo i

7
— ox erlope fre Wg
SECRET 03 2. ozduth: CITE DIRECTOR -

° a if :

“PRIORITY” MADRID - INFO ROUT}NE _"WI/UIAMI if

| | MICROFILM, yn 039487.

<< TYPIC AMAUTO
REF: MADRID etal CIN 096017)

JUN 9

1. REF CABLE MOST INTERESTING, OUR COMPLINENTS TO sAiKo

AND STATION FOR JOB WELL DONE, :

2, AGREE EVENTS MENTIONED PARA 1 F PUZZLING AND HQS WOULD

APPRECIATE ANY FOLLOW-UP STATION CAN OBTAIN THROUGH QUTIMID/
‘i ?

QUDOZE, SINCE SAMKO WAS INTRODUCED TO OTHER COMRADES BY AMAUTO-1,

LATTER PROBABLY PREPARED CONTACT REPORT, POSSIB.UY QUTIMID/

QUDOZE MAY INDICATE HIS TRUE FEELINGS TOWARD SAMKO OR REVEAL

ANY SUSPICIONS OF SAMKO VISIT,
3, HQS ALSO INTERESTED CLARIFICATION OF PHOTOS WHICH STATION

POUCHING,

DID SAMKO IDENTIFY SUBJECTS FROM STATION MUGBOOK,

et

OBTAIN NAMES, ETC,, OR ¥AS HE PROVIDED COPIES OF PHOTOS WHICH ~

TAKEN AT CAFETERIA? JUIGING FROM REF, AMAUTOS' HAVE CHANGED

ORIGINAL DEPARTURE PLANS WHICH ORIGINALLY SCHEDULED FOR 31 MAY,

ADVISE,

b 201- §tbcef eeqnomanns orcens

RELEASING OFFICER wegen yi besa eo rita
SECRET ei

PeonnnuATIny BY ATHED THAN THE ICCHINT OFFICE 1S PROMINITED.

45 Lard (CONTINUED...) 20K “i 4



ucssace ronw

TOTAL Corie
wc PAGE TW

ion ore C SECRET
an z

ares

SET .
OO rcithw’s —__enancn =] ene aio”

- : z sere), —{pica)_
Cor : Taate and fie Sioa Trelerence RumBOD

CITE DIRECTOR

ar on — “03099 7:

4, .FILE: 201-735296 and 201-866054, ene
Fal halla ae

END OF MESSAGE ©
ae ‘

WH/COG COMMENT:. Reported highlights of Alexander SAMKO operational
: contact with AMAUTO-1 on 31 May, SANKO warmly
received by ANAUTO but latter's wife appeared :

7 suspicious, Later meeting scheduled for 6 June,°

rleloh

© C/WH/COG,
Souifer
i 7 Pp easrat maaan : if ee : Rn
a (SOHN L, HART . WILLIAM V, BROB
2 7S C/RUR : c/wHD
‘ Hl
“peLeasina orricen ae 4 fF Team] *urucnmcarwa
Peistevnt

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN TiE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. copy HO,”

enw ee


i  RROPER A aE.

: eee ADR oe
SECRET 0316452 JUNE 78 CITE MADRID Be ‘(ROPARD ACTING)

PRIORITY DIRECTOR. INFO PRIORITY VH/MIAMT 3 din 096017
TYPIC AMAUTO i
REF: WH/MIAMI 7703 (- ows) “oP

“le FOLLOWING ARE HIGHLIGHTS SAMKO/MAUTO=1 FOUR-
WUR MEETING 31 MAY.” ‘ ae

As WIFE AMAUTC-1 WAS FIRST TO RAISE COVER

WEST IONS BUT SAMKO DID SUPERB JOB WITH ANSVERS. WIFE A
WAS COLD AND SUSPICIOUS THROUGHOUT PRELIMINARY.DISCUSSIONS,

EUT LATER WARMED UP TO POINT EXCHANGING ABRAZOS ON
DEPARTURE.

B. SAMKO BELIEVES RELATIONSHIP FIRMLY
RE-ESTABL ESHED AND AMAUTO-1 DESIRES EXCHANGE Y
ADDRESSES FOR PURPOSE MAINTAIN CONTACT.

C. AMAUTO-1 AND WIFE ACCEPTED DINNER FQ
SATURDAY. 6 JUNE.

D... AMAUTO-i AND WIFE VISIBLY MOVED WHEW SAMNKO
ASKED DISCUSS HIS BUSINESS SUCCESSES AND THEY ASKED
NUMBER OF QUESTIONS RELATING TO FINANCIAL ASPECTS
OF HIS EUSINESS,

oS COPY O3Sun te
ot -S66E9S 4 SECRET wer P2EIN


OTA Cure”

CADLE DECRETANIny VissEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESO,

Lessee "SECRET : =
ce Ned
Fence oe LJmnee wo ten cae ontmeee Z
™N Ow Ore
BM | tern to etn
~ er Postnacissanisaneasaniensate=at,_|
ome oF oan o [ Orne ne O nerven to ee 0

Fetes Une

FILE, VR

PAGE 2 MADRID 1261 SECRET c “

D. POLITICS avo {DED PER. OUR iustauct 10NS.

SAMKO TURNED ON CHARM DURING CONVERSAT TONS”
Le

E fe

AND FED AMAUTO~ 1°S EGO WITH COMMENTS ON HOW HE WISHED .

AMAUTO=1 REMATNED In MIAMI TO RANDLE HIS AFFAIRS. rah

“HE COULD HAVE BEEN MILLIONAIRE TODAY; EXPLAINED THAT. © a

WAS NEVER BLESSED WITH CHILDREN BUT AMAUTO-I was LIXE i

HAD BLAMED HIMSELF FOR ALLOWING AMAUTO-1 RETURN TO
WAS PLEASED WHEN HEARD HE WAS WELL.
§ “IF You EVER NEED ME BILL, |

SON.
cusa TO GET KILLED BUT
PARTING COMMENT BY SAtiko WA
i Zt I'LL NEVER LET YOU Down. YOU HAVE A GOOD FRIEND WHO”

Loves YOU A LOT.”
F.  SAMKO AND STATION DISTURBED BY POSSIBLE +

SURVEILLANCE MOMENTS AFTER ENTERING AMAUTO-1'S HOUSE
BRIEFED THIS MIGHT

AMAUTO-1 MADE PHONE CALL. SAMKO WAS
PARK AMAUTO-1

i HAPPEN. ONE HOUR LATER AT AMUSED

STEERED SAMKO TO CAFETERIA WHERE MOMENTS LATER FOUR

f CUBANS, PRESUMABLY’ FRINEDS OF AMAUTO-1, WERE INTRODUCED

TO SAMKO. CUBAIS TOOK NUMBER OF PICTURES. SEEMS

INCONSISTENT WITH GOOD SECURITY PRACTICE, BUT EVENT OF

eA SOME CONCERN TO stat tow. FORTUNATELY, "NO CONTACT WAS

Brecon get sosuens tect testes -


woe O)

cLamry 10 ce Eno.

RAUF TU CELE NO

O one ao O aerum ro

PAGE 3.MADRID 1261 SECRET

PLANNED WITH SAMKO FOR 48 HOURS AFTER HIS MEET WITH
AMAUTO-1. NO SURVEILLANCE NOTED WHEN SAMKO CONTACTED
BY STATION, EVENING 2 JUNE. SAMNKO IN: HIGH SPAR ITs AND
ENJOYS ROLE. RAPPORT GOOD. WILL POUCH PHOTOS AND

2

DETAILS. : ;
2. STATION PLANS BRIEF CONTACT WITH SAMKO BEFORE

HIS NEXT MEET WITH AMAUTO-1. HE WILL ATTEMPT DRAW

OUT AMAUTO-1°S FUTURE PLANS, IF ADDEES HAVE COMMENTS

OR QUESTIONS PLS FORWARD ASAP. '

3. FILE 201-735296 AND 281-S66054, GP-1
SECRET

SECRET ee



___ ROUTING AND-RECG20 SiifET

Filan Sect~2-on_ back Dar

>|

nm

and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records
igmilicsnt-action taken of comments 1

+ 5 7
ing preservation:
FROM:

Noy

RID/A
re 30°

EN-129
GA 50
TURE GT-7

_| insert propa hle no. below and forward
document to RID, AN.

own are not proper.

i and litle

oT Seas.

2 “3: plac yobs
oo. se

at hor

fe rLnED
JUN 1 51978

Ge
od
®. N i
Pe I i
10. if
| H
ab ji | o
7 T ; 7
a | . uw
alors |
w \ N Ww
3.
2 ~~
rs i
uw
~ bz —— I
iA oo
hod 4 Wy
v6. 1 Pe
| i.)
4 1.
Be ee 7 j eae a
RID/EL i i :
@ b a ns @
rey BBE aE RODE REY EOOET
tance |
° neouest | 0\— 136216 7
STE ERSTE ROETMERT oaTe BOcUWERT NUMBER
i
1
e . OSHA 26265 e
1 i O 3 sun 40 aa
Way 8100 sr onee® } SECRET (ao Ps


fie ea ; i — [sone
DISPATCH SECRET
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division BMG eROUTEED

ia Chief, European Division |? CPi foaierenren
Chief of Station, wH/Miand: COS, Lisbon in need EX

MADRID. 1230

L
Fete Ae ety F

Spe PRT AVE

vel

+ QUTIMID:periodically has reported contact between
ject and: Guillermo _RU IZ Werez, the Cuban. Minister
in'Madrid, mostly over the telephone but also indicating
that he has séen her -personally. It would appear that he
has: taken unusually strong interest in her, consibring the
number of other moré demanding tasks he claims to have.
Until now, we have not been able to identify cither Subject
or her relationship with RUIZ.

7

2. On 28 May QUDOZE |
reported the following memorandum (prestimably

to Havana) on Subject as dictated by RUIZ:

Some months ago we received
al] eable ng with|

asking that we contact her to determin
At that time we informed you that said :

married to

citizen who was in Cuba during 1959-1968, intended
to return to our country, abandoning her husband
because of his alcoholism.

passed through Madrid en poute! jon_a
special miss Ne Spoke with her at the Airport
abou nitely returning in order to see that
her 12-year-old son migh Cuba. ,

EMT TTT
MICROFILMED
Distribution: us

2 - C/WHD seed

2 - C/EUR

2 - COS, WH/Miamij

2°- COS, Lisbon

++.-continued

ect_eles|s | : cg Gary:
aoe 10 PATON Tae MD alt oat
1). 65-2-10/9 OSMA - 26265 3 June 1970
orcs Sr ae a
SECRET $65-6-44/3



1400000, GONTINUATION OF
—OISPATCH.___

Today. we interviewed and her
son, who at all‘timos hag maintained a positive
attitude toward this Embassy concerning her
return, We have let her know that given the
circumstances of her presence in Spain - not. as
a 'gusano".but &s the zife of a foreign doctor
who has worked in our country - we saw no
“difficulty. to'prevent her from returning, especially
‘taking into account the fact that she expresséd ©
herself as a revolutionary, ‘but that first we ~
had to receive official permission.

“In our opinion, ‘because the situation in
which she finds hérself in Spain because of
“marriage toa foregner, her return can be
“authorized, based on what has expired."

Cty CTI

Philip C. KENTLAND

i eOerTON

LSE paeviONS fomION,



oo

2: Destroy front cover sheet, unloss it records

FROM

Hi-filo-no:-and-tit

tle show n-are-nol-proper;————|

n taken of comments requir-

reas

] insert proper file no. below and forward
documon! to RID/AN

x)

ALL ADORESSEES,

FL IN SEC TH

PeROP RATE

DOC. MICRO. SER,

Covwenis

react

Request

pate weno aeD

aay Gat a ‘SORT
i i

~WwoEx [3d -135°

1 o/s q

BSc UMERT HUMBER

UFAA 02047/01

Tone
prs

6100

SECRET

tor

i
3. ——— :
Jape Stl Met
i. | you hive ha Lp
1, T CL mame cues Abe
1 i Poet ten eect
12. nate 7 Fee are BTR bet
Le See,
7 ~
th
1 a
az :
i i on
1S. T H w
i nN
H ~®D
16. if oO
i i a
| a
Ld



Name
DPOB:

Occupation:

a GFAP RYO]

OT LOSE

Lat ote
SECRET i ay gern Vo

cv Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Peroz

| Havana Municipal District, Havana
rovince

fae

Minister, Cuban Charga d‘ affaires in spain. Prom

“August 1964 until ‘late 1967, he was vice-Minister of

the Ministry of:Foreign Trade (MINCEX). From 1 August
1963 until. mid-1964, he was Cuban Commercial Counsallor

.dn-Mexicos - Fram 1959 until 1962, he was_an official

‘of the Ministry of Treasury, having appeared in, 1961

.and 1962 as Director-of Economy Financing ‘of the Minis-

‘txy of Treasury. It .has also ‘been reported that he

- was a G-+2.:member (member of tha Department of state

Security. (DSE)) in’ 1961 and .1962. It has beon reported
that. hehad. been working :at the Ministry of Treasury
since prior to 1959, that is, under the Batista re-
gime, .So far, we have not bean able to confirm this ~
information. © a : . :

Date of arrival

at posts

Physical
description:

Parentes

Spouses

childrens

Siblinga:

Exact date unknown. We believe that he has been hold-
ing hia present position since at least 18 November 1967.

white, approximately 5'7" tall, about 180 pounds of
weight (it has been reported that he has a stout build),
light-colored eyes (blue or.green), blond hair (soae-
what wavy and combed back), round face. Has no visible
identification marke. :

Sandee)

Nilda VECIANA ideds “Seen between 1934 and 1942, place
of birth unknown. White, approximately 5'5" tall, 135
pounds of weight, blond or light brown hair, green eyes.
She ig a schoolteacher. PCC, FMC and CDR member.

a.
be aig
ce yaw ae
dad. we
Oe Aydt fi

Ni i, &
a Y
be


SECRET

Political affiliations and attituder It has beea reported that sub=

“Intalligenc

joct is a-member of tho.Comuhist Party of Cuba (PCC) and
@ staunch sympathizer of'tho Cuban regime. There is in-
formation to tha effect that in 1958, Subject was in exile
in Mexico and-was'a‘mémber of tho Triple A Organization
led by Dr.-Aureliano ‘SANCHEZ Arango.- It haa also been re~
ported that “during the struggle against BATISTA (1957=
1958), "Subject belonged to action and sabotaga groups in
Havana and was charged: with placing bombs and other devi~
cen. Source.does not know exactly what activities Subject
carried out: member action and sabotage groups, but
believes -that’he had to:lsave for Mexico in 1958 on ac=
.Gount-of his activities, *-

onnectiond: “RUIZ haa been reported as'a mexber of the
General Directorate of Intelligence (DGI). It has been

“reported that in 1961 and 1962 he was a G-2 (NSE) member

at the Ministry of Treasury, where he worked,

Travels: He traveled toMexico (from mid-1963 until mid-1964, he

Access:

was Cuban Commercial ‘Counsellor in Mexico). Spain, where
he has béen since late 1967 as Cuban Charge @* affairos.
{It was reported that on 27 July 1968, he arzived in Paris,
from Madrid. We donot know tha reasons for that trip).

a (A18. 239 674). “Arrived in the
U.S. on 10 October 1968 from Ke knows
Subject bécause he and Subject are cousins (subject's
mother and. other are sisters). When

(iia arrived in the U.S., he said ha was aoing to re=
side at talephona

number 377-3077. We have not been able to locate hin

because we were told at this address that had
left for another state and that his present address
[| saw Subject

was. unknown to them). for the last
time at the on 10 Oc-
tober 1968, when was going to take the plane
which brought him to the U.S. According to/ b

they greeted each other on that occasion. ae reer
said he had seen Subject at this same airport in early. |
or mid-1968 and that they had talked for approximately
five minutes. On this opportunity, subject was at the
-aixport waiting for the arrival ofa group of Cuban
* diplomats.

>. (Al8 780 716). Ar=
+S. On- ruary 1970 by way of tho

Refugee Airlift. Ha knows Subject boc J Sub-

ject are cousins (Subject's mother, and nother

ara sisters). saw Subject for ast time

in 1983, at tho nome of Subject's mother, where they

happened to meet. According to he and Subject

only said hello to each other. When| arrived
a SECRET



Assesément:

SECRET
-3-

4h the U.Si, he r his address as |

talevhona_mimhar 188- home

ene 1s0
stated that Bay

one Of Susieasteasieted eae

4 nh
/told"I-122 that he and his rriena,

(~___] were’ homosexuals and had beon livina together

Since. approximately 1963. ar-
rived ‘in Miani aboard the same Rafugeo Airlift flight
as) He ia -a brother o.

and'he and Manuel went to liva in Mercedes’ house when
they arrived in Miami). :

Wo believe that cannot. be used in an approach
to Subjoct because they have not maintained. relations
.f0r a long period of years. In addition, Subject might

know I |waakness: (homosexualisa) “and might take
advantage of thia knowledge to Bacal

[also told 1-122 that he had recoived paychiatrie

treatment in Havana,

Subjects prosent position; the positions, all of them
important,which he has held before; and the fact that
he has been reported as a DGI officer, lead us to be-=
lieve that wo do not have many possibilities of success
in-an attempt to recruit or defact Subject. The fact
that Subject's fathor has been a militant Comaunist
since prior to 1959 and that Subject's wife has baen
xeportad as a supporter of tha xogize should not be

forgotten,

Subject‘*s revolutionary background during the atruggle
against BATISTA soems to indicate that he is in favor
of acts of terrorism. This gave him knowladga and ox+
porience in matters related to subversive activities
and/or intelligence activities which ho could use later,

Therefore, we believa that Orostes Guillermo RUIZ Pe~

rez-must be a very useful person for tha Cuban regime,

in Spain. He-has exporience in negotiating trado agree-
monts and’ in handling administrative affairs (he has
beon working in this field for more than ten years).
All this knowledgé arid exporience added to his know
ledge and experience in subversive and intelligence
affairs make him a man who is not often found in the 4
Castro regime. : i

1. O7A-1858, 16 January 1970, contains information and/or
filo traces, on Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez, his wife, and other
members of his family. O7A~-1858 also containa or lists all other
references or reports in which Subject has been mentionad.

2. We have the following ad traces on Subject and his wife:



a. _RUIZ Perez, Orestes Guillermos

be

Trip Madrid-Havana, 20 February 2970) Ciban pasoport
PP-D/67/890. Seat No. 24. Gource: CCA passenger : iz
liste :

VECTANA Lopez, Wildas.
Grip Madcid-Havana, 30 January 1970; Cuban passport

PpeD/e7/69i« Seat No. 25. -SOurca: IBERIA passenger
ate . :

aaroren



SECRET

war 15 1379

3. Wa have the following file traces on persons mentioned in this -

réports

aA

O7A-1858, 16 January. 1970, 1-33. .Dabricfing .o:
Information and file traces on

: : a
OTA=1858, 16 Danuary 1970, I-33. Debriofing of

this report (no traces).

is mentioned in

~OTA-1858, 16 Jan 70. \ Debriefing of |

File traces on

OTA-1858, 16 Jan 70. Debriefing of

Fila traces on

Pile traces on

OTA-1858, 16 Jan 70. Debriefing of

Pr “|

OTA-1858, 16 Jan 70, Debriefing of

Tracea on

OTA-1858, 16 Jan 70. Debriefing of

Tracea on

He ]

Information and traces on

OTA-1858, 1€ Jan 70, I-33.
Information on

OTA-1858, 16 Jan 70, Debriefing of

Debriefing of



| White, born approxiinatoly

[
in 1930. Ha ig working ae a farm laborér, waiting for his
turn. to depart by way of Married,. opposad to

the rogime. Resides in the City of] _|Sources . Debriez=
ing of | 24 Fob 70, 1-122,

-1958, 16.Jan 70, I-33.. Dobriefing of
Traces on this person.

i K. |

418. 760:716. U.S: addresas

ry
Entered | J

on 2/20/70" {RD-1065). No occupation | J
Single. Sources Immigration card.

Ps Trip varadoro-Miami, 20-Feb 70. He is 28 years old. Has
: no passport. Bricklayer. Sourcer AIRLIFT passenger list.

Resides Sister of
Sources

(homosexual). —{ -
I~122,

Debriefing of b 24 Feb 70,

a Resides at |, where Source,

who ia a friond of hers, is residing. Source: Debriofing
of a 5} 24 Feb 70, I-122.

a

Head of the Department of Associations of the Pro-
visional Revolutionary Government. Interventor o*% the
Association of Veterans. Handed it over to Liberation
] Source: Press, 10/15/60.

Attended the which was hold in
the Declaration of| [Hail of the Provisional Government.
Source: Presse, 11/18/60.

Eas a college degree.. Greeted the
and her companions when they visited Sources
Presa, 2/7/61.

Official of the | |Proviaional Government. Communist
7 SECRET
» at b.



‘ SECRET

-i-

and infomer. Sourcer 17 Jan 61,

Boad of the Depart=ént of Associations of the Favana Pros

visional Rovolutionary Government. Met with tho Prasidox
Associa:

and Secrotary of the
tions. -Sources "Revolucion* newspaper, 1 Jun 61.

—

FRomosexual and close friend of source. The latter resided
in his house when he afrived in the U.S. - Born approxinately

in:1923. ‘Prior to 1963, ho worked with
Furniture store as an interior decorator and also as a

salesman. Worked with the ]
in . aga satchash at constmction work eftess Sources
Debric Zing o: a 24 Feb 70,
I-1223 eaieateetetet .

Trip 20 Peb 70. 46 years old. Cuban pass-
port PP-026677. E=ployee. Source: AIRLIFT passenger list.

BORGES Dobarros, Jorge Benitos
Al8 781 146. DPOB: 4/19/23, Havana, Cuba. U.S. address:

Address
Entered the U.S.

at Miami on 2/20/70 (RD-1065). Passport PPp-026677, issucd
_on 4/9/69. Single. Source: Immigration card.

SECRET 7 : L67- PB TIF6


qin Gave Seemed amiAT-DissemnaTion-

GLASS

AssiF tO MESAGE———“ToTAL-CoPri

SECRET 202.

(hen Filled tn)

nore Dee Go

amen to chrmé ne,

GO setuns 30 itt

.
t

SE CR ET O11735Z JUNE 70.CITE MADRID 1237 GOPARD ACTING)

- 4 i
DIRECTOR INFO WH MIA ST \ : is duit 024220

RYBAT TYPTC AMSOUR AMECRU
REF: A. ‘MADRID 1181  089%7)
B. DIRECTOR 937231
“4s eWsuLts anecaue 1 #eeTing 29 AY vITH QuPILL- 1
Ald KENTLAND AS FOLLOWS:
As EXPEYSES, A~1 EXPLAIWED THAT! FOR HIS
RESIOENCE pILLS PARIS (FOR

TRAVELS, PHONE CALLS Ail
CONVENIENT ACCESS TO AMKHAR-1) HAS RECEIVED $2528

FROM ONE FAMILY CAMCALL-1), $1@23 FROM ANOTHER CAMPANIC$7)

AND $3339 FROM AMSOUR-1 SISTER. MoT PRESSING FOR MORE

UNTIL SEES RESULTS CURRENT TRIP, BUT COMMENTED THAT
MUCH 4S SYMPATHIZES WITH AMSOUX-1 SISTER DIFFICULTIES

WITK STOCK MARKET, SUCH DETAILS MINOR COMPARED TO LIFE

8. CASES TO DISCUSS HAVANA. WILL GIVE PRIORITY
TO AMPANIC?7 (2931-27620), CHAS LETTER FROM AMPANIC-7
MOTHER AMCALL-1 (201-275949) (HAS
|MLMISTER RAYMOND

LeTTers TO FROW

pm neTd St

SECRET

ir


‘Routing Anoron ONTHALS-SEEN OF

Tora CoPies

[a rr noes “SECRET
Q (When Filied tn)
-
i, ptvenenanae seacoees
4 cuamey ro cH ree no,
Se Fe ET pte a ce re,
orsme ey eo |O meno O nereay vo

Al FILE, VR

PAGE 2 MADRID 1257 SECRET .

| amsour-1, AMKL NT -3 $201-287682)
AND, SUBJECT 201-859862. WILL FIRST CONTACT

: At THEN WORK WITH CFFICIALS :

DESIGNATED BY HER SHOULD HE GET TO SEE

KIM). FOR TIME BELG WILL NOT RAISE CASE CF PERSOd
APPEARING IDEN WITH AMOBESE (201-354245) FOR WHOM

“: COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION CAMPAIGN HAS NOT YET REACHED
REQUIRED $39,228, KAS NOT RECLAIMED AMPANIC-7 RANSOM
Mow| EMBASSY IN ORDER KEEP CASE NEGOTIAMLE,
UPON SUCCESSFUL CONCLUSION THESE CASES WILL DIscuss
WITH APPROPRIATE PERSONS POSSIZILITIES FOR PACKAGE
EXCHANGE FCR WHICH, HE REALIZES, CANNOT EXPECT ANY
PRIOR LNHARP COMMITMENT.
C. HOPES TO VISIT U.S. THIS SUMMER OR FALL

AND SEE OLIVER G. GALBOMD, i

“sp, amauro-1 (201-735296): LUNCHEON APPOINTAENT
ST FOR 30 MAY. INTERESTING TO NOTE HIS CAPSULE :

ASSESSMENT AMAUTO-1 AS “INTELLIGENT, WELL-ORGANIZED

“wad WHo HAS ATTAINED POSITION UNUSUALLY HIGH FOR HIS. .

‘ ~"- SECRET ’



Tero ger

CABLE SECRETARIAT UISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE Tovat Copies ioe

SECRET...

leben Filled tn) SSS
mebeomuetion Or THN COrT peal
won Ore Ow

evamey 16 ce encwo,

hnee 10 crue

O me

oO neruan 10 = OMAN EH

PAGE 3 MADRID. 1237 S.E CRE T.
LIMITED BACKGROUND AND WHO PROZAELY WILL REMAIN WITH
REGIME BECAUSE OF MANAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES OFFERED

AND PATRIOTIC MOTIVATION TO IMPROVE. COUNTRY THROUGH
REVOLUTIONARY DOCTRINE™.- : :

2. .C/O ASKED IF PROPER MOMENT PRESENTED DURING : .
AMAUTO-1 LUNCH THAT A-1 ATTEMPT TO ELICIT WHETHER AMAUTO-1
WOULD BE IN TOWN 31 MAY, A-1 YCLLD USE LOGICAL PRETEXT

OF NEED TO KNOW IF AMAUTO-1 AVAILABLE FOR LAST-MINUTE.
OINSULTATION BEFORZ WE BOARDS 31 HAY FLIGHT TO “HAVANA.
(@-1 PHONED C/O HIGHT 38 MAY TO ADVISE THAT AMAUTO-|
wOULD BE In ALL DAY 31 mAY.)
S, WILL PREPARE FOR JKLANCZ DETAILED REPORT ON
EVENTS AND OBSERVATONS HIS TRIP! HICH WILL GIVE To
S10 AT FIRST OPPORTUNITY AFTER RETURW ON CHE HOPES) 2
13 JUNE. (ALSO WILL fend HIs| PASSPORT FOR
STATION TO COPY VARIOUS OFFICIAL CacHETS.) :
| A.) AMECRU-1 APPEARED ELATED OVER PROSPECT OF TRIP
AND RELATIONS WITH BOTH QUPILL-1 AND KENTLAND WERE
QUITE: CORDIAL. :
So: QUPILL-1 LATER TOLD C/O THAT AMSOUR-1 SISTER

H : : t

SECRET



CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CUASSIFIED MESSAGE Torat Comes ROUTER AND/OA IMITIALS-ELEN OT
Feet Ware SECRET oe".
(When Filled tn) “SSS

sovance coor {Jimueo

a vee

wren, Ova Quo

CLAMPY To Ch PLE NO.

AAEP To co RE MO.

DO meno

O serum ro

Se

3
6
z
3

Tenor Ty
: Al FILE, VR

TeTON Re fie

PAGE 4 MADRID 1237S E

CRET

PHONED NIGHT.28 MAY QUITE UPSET OVER FAILURE TO HEAR

“FROM HIM. HAD CONSULTED WITH “FRIENDS” WHO SUGGESTED

SHE TRAVEL TO SPAIN FOR PERSOWAL MEETING WITH QUPILL-1,

FOR WHICH ALREADY HAD- RESERVATIONS on FLIGHT 29 MAY.

WHEN Q-1 ADVISED HER THAT NO FURTHER NEWS EXPECTED

> TRAVEL PLANS.

UNTIL AFTER AMECRU-1 RETURN, SNS AGREED TO CANCEL

6. QUTIMID CONFIRMS ANEZCRU-1 LUNCH DATE WITH AMAUTO-1

AnD Unined a SHOW HIM AND WIFE ON 31 maAY MANIFESTS.

Te FIL%251061063, 201-325568 dace 201-276380,
201-275949, 291-287682, 291-859682, 201-735296,

251-354245, 291-836293,
SECRET

GP-1

‘SECRET

ed

