# 104-10119-10059

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10119-10059

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

DATE

TO: "

ROOM NO.

GE- 31

SR&CD

BUILDING

Headquarters

REMARKS:

For subject's file;

•=?

....

HUNT, E. Howard

FROM:

ROOM NO.

2C-03

FORM NO. 24

FEB 55

C/ PhySD

BUILDING

Tyler

- REPLACES FORM 36-8

WHICH MAY BE USED

EXTENSION

6821

(07)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ENFIDENTIAL

SECURITY VIOLATION REPORT

23500

¡ETAILS

OF THE VIOLATION: On Tuesday, 15 July 1969, at 7:29 P.M., USSP O. Cole on a

routine inspection of the area found an improperly secured safe in Room 4B-29,

Headquarters Building. The classification of the material in the safe was at least

SECRET. The safe was secured and the check sheet turned over to the Security

Duty Office. The char force had not been through the area prior to the discovery.

INDIVIDUAL(S) RESPONSIBLE

OFFICE

DIVISION

BRANCH

HUNT, Fu Howard

DD/P

EUR

CA Staff

03

ÄCHEY, Betty J

DD/P

CA Staff

. DESCRIPTION OF HOW VOLATION OCCURRED: Both individuals were interviewed in their offices on

16 July 1969. Mr. Hunt stated that he left his office between 5:40 and 5:45, telling

Miss Achey]that he was leaving for the day. He did not tell her that his safe was open.

He assumed, he said, that one of the girls would check his office. He also stated that

he himself usually closes and locks the safe unless there was something in his out box.

(Note: A review of the safe check sheet for the latter part of May and early June,

until Mr. Hunt went on leave, indicates that he signed off every day). Miss Achey]

stated that Mr. Hunt did say he was leaving, that he did not mention the open safe and

that he usually secured the safe himself. She also stated that she had glanced into

his office on the 15th but had not noticed nor checked for the open safe. She left

the office at 6:08 P.M. There is no second check system in use in this complex.

In view of the circumstances, both are charged with this violation.

4. SECURITY HISTORY OF PERSONIS) RESPONSIBLE:Mr. Hunt has been employed by the Agency since

October 1948. A review of his record indicates that he has been charged with an

Open Safe security violation which occurred on 3 September 1968.

Miss Achey/has been employed by the Agency since November 1962. A review of

her record indicates that she has not been previously charged with a security

violation.

SIGNATUREY CHIED SURYEY-BRAN perations Branch

SIGNATURE

03

RECURITY INVESTIGATOR'

KoberE.?

nnesse

ENDORSEMENT

TO

FROM:

DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

EUR

Petit

ACTION TAKEN:

(Area Security Officer)

Mr. Hunt

sultent was given a written reprimand (copy attached).

Miss Achey was giren an oral reprimand by DC/BUR/SS.

25 Auyti

DATE

20 August 1969

8.62 912a USE PONS!

PREVIOUS

SIGNATURE

CONFIDENTIA:

DC EUR SUPPORT

GROUP!

fantided trom salamo

ПОПАТТАЛИ ТИ:

6-JD

---

