# 104-10413-10383

## Page 1

1104-10413-1038:

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SEGRET

2 3 OCT 1975

Bouty Diroctor for dininistration

Senato Sagect Comictee

ma, to capace ve scenes false doorate men, sents

colet cosmittoo stafe, muo conchocu a rarier of the 01132

Files on 20 Saptenber 1975.

he Ustice Do Security Ces conclued a sorrain Forden

vi the macy filos 200 has

cortain contonts thorso

3 tomocis 00r has roques tou deancerigie concernined

cool rosing itoos betroyteed

Inspemient of say senate

€

Tie flies contain a raw, mercinated retort

Fron Wiley containing his roportin? o:

3: 1115-

Cation chat Loo

Say in the minter or 1962, having charact disa

2 Ci000.

(retached is lasant monorantor, For do is

ial attendant

comments, seggesting receipt of the report circa

20 December 1963.)

Readily

availadle publie and Office of

security information suncerning Oswald makes

no reference to the possibility of his being

in New YorK City in

the Winter of 1962.

The

warren Conniasion. did not: pursue such a tine

uf inquiry:

Document Number

1352-1060

foi FOlA Raviaw on

MAN 1977

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

Tura is no avidonce in cha MEiop tilss or

the file of the surree, Enriqve.

Tizonto shoscal

(7 Feronguer): 1732943,

this inforatien

VES BOCAGISS GUE OE the LEfice Df Gocorical.

Security Research Stafi, to which dlEy reporto!

the inforaition. Honorer, is Giley stares

tie craport:

•I urged toascal

cute the

÷JI

wit.

tie incoraaelon,

and

recting.

Ho promisod

to: toll the.

the

and made contact through do agent (0'2Fi2)

whou no knor bocause of past ictivities.

CaTHING 4025c941

his office of focurisy

Elle containa the folloin? conceming

kis

veracity:

Ofrico of Socuritr/Security Research

1192sca] d23

50r seriral jeari furnisted

inforsation

Lo SiS

Hia bond

proven to be utterly sorthless and

usually fictitions

office 6f Securly/Securit Moscirca

Sure zeroranin

Today: 1975:

(shaocal) has Furaished Source wit

Ichligence indorration is 1074255

io le coalete fabrication:

lopinions?

scrocrita Cristime (ro)

folloving statecents about dingsai

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SEGRET

IE 02r0a

tho difice

ni gecurityl.

Socurity dossarei

tore had

103503 10

question che veracity of Mascal pisciacia?

curther ciosonination of the incoruazioni

ani chat duero vas a reason to believo

sant doascal sould ropert the latoracion

Io ine il for tivir action.

Arlinuton Vousse dundedera

Tho files concoin a rar, uneraliate?

rupore Fros Filay containing his

of

as allogacion tor Cla pas partix?

aird once attonited full control

Arlington louse, Piblishero.

Atrichen

instant cosorandun, fabro,

1s 2003 0f0/00yD original

nitondant documento.

The filas

inatsia no curtier clarification ef che

incomizion.)

morois no ossico or Sacialey gusject

An the nod or artiniton douse or

ATI SECCONE ORSO A

ranistereo

AE MOUlA LOpEIT

thot dellaston 10050, Palisters

15

c3?-

nector vich tre congortatire cosses

inchley is a forher Aroady caployes

Mis close coanactions vita forner Agonsy

ciploreat corald tut hovs racentiy

recosyad creensive publicity, It is

eballaved Chat numerous forner vzency

eoplorces aro linkes rito Sucilay's carsos,

1is.0001: 6e

canalat

iney

irli

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

Toni

attention

is ageis dirgetod to tiù coaceras o2

ì.!?!

apressed in the referenced meso-

that the taley lilo docucears and til stateronts

canined trercin,

1vs"

though

not classifica

as such,

and prudently masciss

idorticiod thereia.

Rebart

Carbino

Director Of jeCurity

dies

Distribuzion:

?

-Alaresses

1 - D/Security w/o atts

Us registry i/o atts

1D PSI watts:

1 - SAG watts

I - Wilcy File w/atts

OS/PSI/SAG/JGBrovn: jan (210CT75)

---

