# 104-10216-10312

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10216-10312

* 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Sace Wi Rohing

10. 1e. ARMSTIDEG/nak

88 • WH/SA/EOB

8 • 6153

I • 2 NOVEMBER 64

• • PARIS

OM DIRECTOR

or, pe/uM/SA

• PRITY PARI

DESETSHRESYPIC MHAPRON AMLASE-1

REF: PARI 7270 (IN 15245)

MESSAGE FORM '1

SECRET

I ME IN @ FA NO.

ROUTING

5

6

7

ZRoy 6d 23

VR FILE SIGCEN

61268

".

its..

MOB

Iit

SS

ICS

PERS

RETS, LOG

SI

BY

AR

CA

DOB

CI

IS-

I. ASSUMING YES OR NO APPLIES-TO

FAVITA TU SIXTESNTE NATIONAL

ASSEMBLY SURGEONS, NEXI CITY, 15-21 NOVEWBER, AHLASH-I ASKED AKWEIP

FOR PASSAGE, MEXI VISA, AND INVITATION.

INÉTATION

2. ANWHIP ARRANGED INVITE VIA MEXI FRIEND AND HQS UNDERSTANDS

THAT JUST PRIOR TO LEAVING FOR XIC EUROPE ANWHIP PHONED HARCELINO

INViTATION

ARTINE VEGA HAVANA TO TELL HIN AMLASH'S INVITE AT MEXI EMB HAVA. PERHAPS

ARTIME DID NOT UNDERSTAND.

INCiTATION

3. SUGGIST AWWAIP PHONE NEXT FRIEND TO ASK WHETHER INTER ACTUALLY

SENT CUBA FOR ALLASH AND WHEN.. IF ANSWER YES RECOXEND ANWHIP HAVE MEXI

FRIEND SEND 'AILASH DIRECT OPEN CABLE TO COTE KANUEL FAJARDO HOSPITAL,

ZAPATA AND C STREETS, HAVANA, SAYING INVITE AT MEXI EMB.

*A. ABOVE SEEMS REASONABLE SOLUTION SINCE CUBAN AUTHORITIES WILL

HAVE TO BE INFO'D OF PLAN TRIP, AND VISA RESOLVED ANYWAY, DID ANWHIP

RESOLVE PROBLEM OF FUNDS FOR AHLASH?

5. HAVE ALWHIP INFORM IGLESIAS YES OR NO BASED ON RESULTS MEXI

/CONTINUED/

_ COONRINATINO OLEISION

ANiLASH 1 fie

SECRET

TIGATINO

1201252234

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy Na

---

## Page 2

14-00000

охо.

uNT.

DXT

DATE.

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

@ NO NOTX

• AL IN OS AL NO

DIRECTOR

CON.

NO

ROUTING

51

6

7

2 Rov SV 23

SIG CEN

142

пка.

OTE OR

01268

6. NO INFO AT HQS THAT AMLASH QUERY APPLIES TO ANYTHING BUT

TRIP.

END OF HESSAGE

NH/SA/SOB

Ritace.

THOMS E.

С/WБ/Iy

C/ WE/5

SPORDIMATINO OFRISBRI

SECRET

lame and ti

REPRODUCTION: Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIDITED.

SATIO

coor Ma

---

