“404 10105- 913 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

KOUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

‘Mr. ‘David Phillips’ Manuscript

FROM: 7] EXTENSION
Richard S. Sampson, C/LAD 1431
32019

he PL lee Cid ahaa uated tice ken OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

INITIALS wl us mm
as mes to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

Mr. John M. Reeves \
C/External, Affairs Branch| -

10, -

12.

15.

Seo’ 610 “titers KX]. SECRET © [[]_ CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL —_f—] UNCLASSIFIED _
reer ay ear: use only. ED


MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. John M. Reeves
Chief, External Affairs Branc.
Office of Security .

FROM : Richard S. Sampson
Chief, Latin America Division

SUBJECT : Mr. David Phillips' Manuscript

1. Following are comments on chapters.2, 5 and 11 of
this manuscript which havé been reviewed in LA Division:
: 1 9 :
2. Chapter N

a. The portion on the terrorist kidnapping in the
Dominican Republic in 1974 (pages 38-41) should be
deleted for the following reasons:

(1) This incident is still fresh in the minds
of most Dominicans, and it is unrealistic to assume
that it will not be picked up and published in the
local press. Barbara Hutchison, USIA, one of the
people kidnapped, is still in the Dominican Republic,
and according to two fairly recent reports, is again
being considered as a target for kidnapping. The
potential for terrorist acts against US citizens
continues, three top leaders of terrorist-oriented
groups are currently in prison, and publication of
this item could propel the terrorists into action.

(2) The close link between the. Ambassador and
the CIA which the author portrays could be prejudicial
to his public image and might even provoke the
terrorists to target against him. 24

(3) The Station has renewed liaison relationship
that was suspended after a local thange in command
and much effort is being directed toward developing
a relationship of mutual confidence. The revelation

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 055762

“if


~
we
oN

cpl

ci? Sfuture, at least .as far as the

justeetadnnaisuaaie 4. satis
of this information on an obvious _ Zi
by the then Chief, LA, might lead our (increasingly 24
friendly liaison) contacts to wonder whether we
might be able to maintain confidence on future
operations, and possibly jeopardize this relation-
ship.

(4) Although the bugging‘of the thermos was
discovered and appeared in the press, the use of
the Coca Cola case did not receive such exposure
and therefore continues to be an option for the y
omni can Republic) 4éo
is concerned. Perhaps the authdr should be reminded
of a cable that was written during his tenure as
Chief, LA with regard to this particular audio 24
operation: "BOTH EMBASSY AND(LTATSON PERSONNEL, SHOULD
BE CAUTIONED TO HOLD EXISTENCE THIS OP TIGHTLY AS
POSSIBLE TO LEAVE OPEN CHANCE USE THIS PLOY IN FUTURE
CASES AS WELL“AS PREVENT ADVERSE ACTION BY PRESENT
KIDNAPPERS." Reference the author's footnote (page 39)
that "Philip Agee long ago revealed..." this technique,
Agee's revelation is certainly no criteria for further
disclosure.

b. The passage regarding CIA's role in countering
terrorist activity abroad should be delted. The author
singles out the Agency as "Only CIA, of American agencies
abroad, is uniquely charged with countering these activi-
ties". This could only increase the targetting of our
personnel by terrorists, and possibly lead to another
Welsh-type incident.

c. The author's confirmation of Agee's identification
of CIA personnel should be deleted as well as the author's
information on the disruption of Agency operations which
resulted from Agee's exposes (pages 5-6, 41-43). Undoubtedly
Agee and his ilk would be delighted with this gratis exposure
and derive satisfaction in having it made known to the
public, by one with first-hand knowledge, what impact
exposes have on CIA operations, morale, etc.

d. We fail to understand the author's purpose in his
references to the Kennedy assassination and Watergate,
which raises the doubt about CIA involvement in the first,
and leaves the reader’ pretty well convinced that there
was involvement in the latter (pages 5, 16, 30).



pu &

the appropriate Agency components: ,

e. The following passages should be cleared with
the appropriate Agency components:
{
(1) SE Division: The operation against the '
+ “KGB (page 36). This operation took place in|

(2) NE Division: The Arab terrorist activity
‘in "Costa Brava" - which is Venezuela - and follow-up
“ information involving the Middle East, and apparently
a telephone-tap operation (pages 36-38).

£. The author notes (page 4). that. more is being
written on Chile operations. It is requested that this
item'be submitted for review by this Division prior to
publication.

3. Chapter %%

a. There are no passages which we can require be
deleted.

b. The following passages should i mei with

apie
an “Q) Reference to the. Gule Steamship Company
being used as a cover for the broadcast aspects of

oh «the Bay of Pigs operation (pages 12 and 22). When

checking this passage with Mr. Gordon Wohl, CCS, he:
asked that a copy of the manuscript be sent to his
component for review.

(2) Use of a New York public relations firm (not
identified by name) which was "responsive to CIA
control" (page 32). Other books and publications have
identified the Lem Jones Associates as having handled
the public relations aspects, but nowhere have we
found it alleged to have been CIA-controlled. Some
articles indicate that there is actually a Mr. Lem
Jones, who was president of the firm. Perhaps the
author's allegation that it was CIA-controlled should
be deleted.

\

|
i
|
|
\


a Backarowns.
: Backgre
: Woo pes ker
vero

(3) The reference to the coup in Iran in 1953
(page 52).

4. Chapter 2

a. Again, no passages were found for which there is
a solid basis on which we can require deletion. .

b. The following passages should be cleared with
the appropriate Agency components:

xX (1) CIA-FBI cooperation:

‘1 FBI assistance in arranging the author's release
ee jail (page 7).

-The Agency's capability to alter FBI criminal
,— records (page 8).

- (2) The Agency's preparation/use of false identity
x papers,.including in the US (pages 1, 2, 3,°14, 16).

Sane (3) CIA's payment for the \vessel that was
eo" sunk during the Guatemala 1954 Operation (page. 35).

, We have turned up notations that indicate no payment
“had been made as of August 1960.

ai (4) Reference to the operation in Iran (page 43).

(5) Use of Agency funds for what could be con-
4 .sidered rather frivolous purposes (pages 18-19 and 21).

ce)

Richard S. Saipson

Attachments:
Chapters 2, 5, 11

eco y

un a

