# 104-10186-10274

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-1027451 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

• 101 and ta the vamaminios ol Mrolarion of abich ta any mander lo do vaauthorns metoa t pralall

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Background Use Only,

Do Not Reproduce

REPORT NO.

CSC1-316/00694-64

DATE DISTR 21 AuguSt 1961

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

3

2

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Guillermo RUIZ

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

1964

SOURCE:

Washington, D. C.

August 1964

FIELO REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INPORMATION.

SOURCE ORADIAOS ARE DEFINITIVE

APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligonce Sorvice until April 1964.

Headguarters Connents

The following report is one of a series containing personality

Information

provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

the individuals mentioned in the

first chocking with this Agency.

imbassy in Mexico City,

Say In mexic city Come Directoche neral de lateligeneta

(General Directorate of Intelligence +DGI) case officer in

nearby area (arca unknown to source).

Headquarters Comments

1.

a representative

of Hacienda.

His father was a Communist and chief of the

2. An untested

source whe was a former employee of the Ministry

of the Treasury stated in a report dated 8 September 1962,

that Guillermo RUIZ, a militiaman and militant Communist,

was Chief of the Department of Gonstructior Expenses

Studies in the office of the General Director of Finance

in the Ministry of the Treasury.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Rocktad too

STATE

1 DIA

ARMY

REP CINCLANT

(Nora. fiald duribution indicatad by " #".}

I HAVY

CINCSO #

TAIR

INSA

I oce

I FBI 2

I&YS

NEOR

ON REPORT.

INFORMA L

LONSRERORT

MY/SAEOB & NE/S/R

- LX-1640

2, CLAR&A

NO PROJECT (AXMUG/I)

WIL/SAR

CSC1-316/00894-64

HALSA/CL

RIDLAN

HAL/HAVE

TOTALO

WH/SA 7 (1), RE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

1: 845

3/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

....

SECHET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

-2-

3. On 23 September 1963, a source who 19 an official in anti-Castro

OrKaNLAtIONY

considered rellable, but who does not

nurmally report on Intelligence matters,

advised a representative

uf this Ayency that he had received a lotter from a frtend in

cuba which stared the following Information:

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez who was sent to

Mertoo by the Cuban government as a Commercial Advisor

of Cuba in Mexico, 1s

a member of G-2 and was sent

to Mexico to try to infiltrate counterrovolutionary

4.

the Commerical Office. - who has recently been emerging as a

fanatical Fidolluta- spoke out about the recent accord

between Cuba and the USSR, saying that it way convenient for

the USSR to keep on the good side of Cuba and thus keep a

dagger in the back of the imperialists.

Ambassador HERNANDEZ

Armas, somewhat taken aback by RUIZ' language, pointed out

that the relationship between the USSR and Cuba is based, above

all, on the highest principles of international friendship.

Source further added that RUIZ has been showing himself to

be quite aggressive, politically,

In staff meetings and

appears to be a violent partisan of the Castro regime.

5.

City, that he was derving in the

diplomatic status, and that he was probably G-2.

Source, who

knew RUIZ in Cuba, described RUIZ as having been born about

1939, belik about five feet four inches tall,

135 pounds,

and having red hair. According to source, RUIZ was

Communist in 1960.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1/BR

!...•...

---

