# 104-10093-10043

## Page 1

4-00000

9104-10093-10043]

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

/ QURECTOR -

ROM . MEXICO CITY

SON. CAN a

1ºO • APOP, RF

VR

(SUSPENSE DO/ 1)

RETUNGTO SIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

EYE

ONLY

SECRET

162.0352

DIR INFO SAGO PARI CITE MEXI 6560

REF. MEXI 5443 (IN

36020)

MEXI 8A20 (IN 35080)

16 0c7 63 18 4 1 45 3

C/S COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABI

TO RYBAT ESLAND CABLES.

INTEL. (ESLAPD)

TIPSATA SOURCE LIFEAT. NO INDEXINE.

FILER 1630297

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM HMM-7R97 MEXICO/GUATEMALAI

PANCE/CHILE SURJECT TRAVEL PLANS OF JUAN JOSE AREVALO PERMEJO

POI LO TO lA OCT AS PADA MEXICO MEXICO CITY 1E OCT E3 APP 2 SOLDCE

08

DEO SONS (E) IN CLOSE

DEPSONAL CONTACT WITH ARIVALS,

SE

1. ON 14 OCTOBER 1963 JUAN OFE

• ARIVALO BORREJO, FOPTEF

PRESIDENT OF GUATAMALA NOW LIVING IN NEERCO, SAID THAT HE WOULD

LEAVE MEXICO ON IT OCTOBER. ON THIS OCCASION ADEVALO DID NOT

SPECIFY WHETHER HE WOULD GO DIRECTLY TO CHILE, OP TO PARIS FIRST.

?. ON I1 OCTOBER AREVALO HAD TOLD FRIENDS THAT HE MAD RECEIVED

AN LIPGENT MESSAGE FROM THE UNITED NATIONS ECONOMIC, SCIENTIFIC AND

CALTURAL OPGANIZATION CLINESCO, AND INAT HE WAS LEAVING FOR CHILE

ON FITHEP 15 OR 17 OCTORER. ON 1Z OCTOPER AREVALO TOLD FRIENDS

TWAT LINESCO HAD APPOINTED HIM TO TEACH IN SANTIAGO DE CHILE FOR

ONE YFAR AT AN INSTITUTE OF HIGHER LEAPNING. ME SAID IT WAS A

REPRODUCTION EY CTHEA TI

00506

---

## Page 2

i DIRECTOR

ACTION.

INFO:

IN 41453

NEXI 6560

SCHOOL OF JOENALISA OPERATEPLRY UNESCO. 'AREVALO SAID HE DID NOT

WANT ANY PUPLICITY ABOUT MIS TRIP.

3.

ON 10 OCTOBER MAS. AREVALO MAD TOLD A FRIEND THAT AREVALO

WAS GOING TO PARIS, RUT SHE AND THE FAMILY WOULD MOVE TO SANTIAGO

DE. CHILE. SHE EXPRESSED TIE WISH THAT HER HUSBAND COIRD HAVE

REEN APPOINTED TO A UNESCO POST IN MEXICO CITY, SHE SAID HE VOID

TRY TO NEGOTIATE THIS POINT WHEN HE GOT TO PARIS.

FIELD CONMENT. IT WAS REPORTED EARIINY THAI ANEVALÚ MANNEL

TO LEAVE MEXICO FOR PARIS IN MID-OCTORER IN CONNECTION WITH A

POSITION WITH UNESCO. AREVALO HAD INDICATED HE EXPECTED TO RE

SENT TO CHILE BY UNESCO. EARLIER AREVALO MAD MANNED TO LEAVE

MEXICO OM 19 OCTOBEP.

S. FIELD DISSEM STATE FRI LENS CINCSO.

SECRET

ONL

OPTICE IS PROMINEO

002061

---

