# 104-10072-10185

## Page 1

1104-10072-10185/2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AS.

INCATION

DISPATON SYMBOL AND NO

DISPATCH

HIHA 0718

Chief. WHD

COB, SMASH

MORO LME

DEC 6 1960

FROM

Chiet or Station Habinal

& Operational/SMeT

PORUMENT HICROTLA SERVICE

Conversation with ANJUis?

ACTION REQUIRED

ores for intomation only

UNKNOWN

Held. File No 10-201,753

21 August 1960

PEDEA JALCHECK ONE

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO DIDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUAUFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

On 19 August 1960 AlUM? told the case officer that he had i

cotained additional details and intermation regerding the anti-CASTRO

mittery with which he was in contacts aMul 18 in contactarith this

group through Robert HulA. who le married to Afaurs 1a necessA iwsA.o6.

us anarch tecttand has been working blth the Rebel suban Covernment

as a special adviaor to the General State.

RETURN TO

Background Usp Ory

20 According to Asure a courco the old aster croups have

Do Not Reproduce

been organized and now have approdmately 10, 000 men on whon they can

rely in the future to sctively oppose Fidel, CASTRO. These men are

alleged to be tree of the taint of BATISTA but were enlisted in the

mitary curing the satista regime the organization of the group ha

seen liandled in part by Ex-It VASALLO (nu) uhon AWUTE 1 desoriber

as an efficient organizer but lacks the Stature for renlistendership.

3. ArJurt-i said that some time ago this military group sent an

unidentified representative to Miami to contact Antonio VAPONA and offer

him the support of their nilitary group. VARONA 1g allegedly, reported

to have said, that this group would be e veluable addition to the anti

CASTRO forces in the "Blocko (Undoubtedly is referring to the F'R).

donever, Virors alleged to have told the representative that It.

VASAILo was not completely acceptable to the "Blocke" because while e

good organtzer he did not have the backing and stature needed to represent

the pilltary group in the "Blogle"

louisequently, the various military groups are alleged to bav

greed to havo Ex-It. Col, Enrique Perez HONTOYA represents them in the

Blockel. Alours 1 seid that MONTOYA's name has been submitted to the

"Blocke" but that to date no word has been received from the "Blocket as to

MIGROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS

DESTROY AFTER USE

whether NoMorats acceptable, to them and will be given a position of

representation in the "Plocke" or not. MONTOYA was described as an

ox miltary man who served under Col. TABEFULIA and was asked to retire

during BATISTA a time because of his umillingness to compronise his

integrity in acts of corruption and graft.

F. Alet-l also said that he lad been told by HEyTA,that, the

5/R

69871

---

## Page 2

0000

Hone or intone to on y

BERY QUAYEED HO DESK ONLY

34242

10. On 19 August 1960 ASUn told the case officer that ho had

obtained additional detailorand information regarding the ent. -CASTRO.

niac with wich he was un contact manures sun contactin that

group through Roberto InVIA who la married to Aure 16 nieces HEVIA

bis an architsattand has been worlong lth the Bebal uban hovernment

as a special, advisor to the Ceneral. States

been organtzed and now have approximately 10,000 men on whom they can

rey in the suture to actively oppose Fidel, CASIRO These nen are

alleged to be freo of the taint of bATISTA but were enlisted in the

a tary curne the utista regime. The organization of the group hau

been jandled in part by -Its VASALLO (fnu, uno AVUrE 1 describes

as an efficient organizer but lacks the stature for real leadership.

anure? said that some time ago this aflitary broup sent an

unidentified reprosentative to Miami to contact Antonio VARONA and offer

him the supporti of their military group. VARONA is allegedly reported

to have sadd that this group would be a valuable addition to the enti

CASTRO forces in the "Blocke. (Undoubtedly lo referring to the YoR).

However, VARMy la alleged to have told the representative that Lt.

VASALLO was not completely acceptable to the "Blocke" because while a

good organizer he did not have the backing and stature needed to represent

the oilt tary group ln the "Blocke"

4 Subsequently, the various military Broups are alleged to eve

agreed to havo exort. Col. Enriguo Peream MONTOYA represents them In the

#Blocko" Anurs 2 said that MONToYA"& name has been submitted to the

"blocke" but that to date no word las been received from the "Blocked as to

whe ther 1IONIOXA is acceptable to them and will be &-ven a position of

representation in the Blocker or not. VONTCYA gas described as an

er military man who served undor Col. TABEINTILA and uas asked to retire

during BATISTAke tine because of his unillingness to compronise hts

intesrity in acts of corruption and graft.

A Vi also said that he, had been told by HiNt, that the

"Blocke in Habna was now being directed by pator Manolo MY ex

winister of Fublicatorks and the 26 of July leader in the, Habana areas

Fe paid diat David Sar Wook: atonosed-GrC leader, was heading the workers

in the Blockelf Multi-laldo reported that the group of men controlled

oy er-ajor Fauld CHiVAS are also a part of the "Blocked

BLOQUEL

6. A JUTE-I said thet/VIA told him that all the varlous military

groups are now waiting for is acknowledgement from the executive camnittee

of the "Blockel, that thely egreed upon representative MONTUXA 1a acceptable.

EVIA said that the militory graups were in possesst on of sone arms and

armunition but lacked supplies for a full scale Operation.

Gerold L, Gardyne:

Distribution:

-Heodquarters

2/23 August 1960

GLG/she

201-275643

201-275645

IНA-6718

FORM

9037.53

(40):

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORMS.

51.23: 51-281 AND 31.29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE:

CLASSIFICATION:

S-*-C-T-E-T

PAGE, NO

CONTINUED

REPRODUCTIONS

AFTER USE

AS DES

---

