# 104-10234-10012

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10234-10012

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

$,

:*/C/CA/?P

5329/9139

20 KARCH 66

TO " SAVAVE :

PRESS DIRECTOR

S

MESSAGE FORS

TOTALCURIES.

O IADEX

-SECRET

ONO INDEX

• FILE IN ES FILEDO.

•TING

LeR=

_PR

77. 13)

STAREN

WAVE

TYPIC KHSPAWN

•*REFS: '"A. DIR 86202*

=-g"

В. •НІЛУ 2362 (IN 71393)**

86879-4

I. UPI, MIAXI, OF 9 MARCH PARALLELS REPORTS VARIOUS SOURCES

SEVANA LNIVENSITY STUDENTS DENONSTRATING AGAINST GOVT AND INDICATING

TRIAL AUTIASH-1 BACKFIRING AGAINST CASTRO.

2. EQS WISHES GIVE MAYINUM PROP PLAY STUDENT OPPOSITION REGIE.

BELIEVE THESE DEVELOPHENTS AFFORD SOLID OPPORTUNITY SERIOUSLY TO

DISCOXFORI GOC. SUGGEST STATION USS FOLLOWING POINTS CVER RADIO

FACILITIES:

A. THIS DEMONSTRATION STRONGEST INDICATION DISAFFECTION OF

: STUDANTS WHICH LONG APPEARED CASTRO STRONGHOLD. TRADITIONAI

INDEPENDENCE OF STUDENTS NOW ASSERTING ITSELT AFTER YEARS OF

GROTING DISSATISFACTION EXACERBÄTED BY SUCH ACTS OF CASTRO AS

PURGE OF UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS AND STUDENTS UNDER GUISE OF

HOXOSEXUALITY AND FAILURE FOLLOR DICTATES OF THIS REVOLUTION;

CLOSING OF UNIVERSITIES FOR CANS CUTTING; POLITICAL INDOCTAINATION

REPLACING EDUCATION; STC.

-AMLASH-1

CONTINUED/

LABIN OFFICER

SECRST

d...

Dare sc.

---

## Page 2

4-00000

-

in :

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

"SON @HILLI TO BRANCH COURS.

51

6

GNO 14=EX

I FILE A CSFILERO.

2

3

.. :

FREN: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO: VR. FILE I RID COPY

SECOND PiGE

LAFO

CITE DIR

86579

B. POSTERS REFERRED TO IX REF B WITH SLOGANS "OUT NITH FIDEL,"

"ONE HEAD PAYS FOR ANOTHER HEAD," "DO NOT PUSH, I WILL FALL BY

MYSELF" (MEANING FIDEL CASTRO, REF B) UNDERSCORES DEPTH OF

DISSATISFACTION WHICH YOW REACHED POINT OF OPEN DEFIANCE.

•C. THESE INTOREEN DEVELORSEIIS ON PARI REGINE INDICATS

WEAXNESS ON PART OF CASTRO KHO NOW FINDING OPPOSITION EVERY

QUARTER AND REALIZES HS FACING LOST CRITICAL SITUATION NO DATE,

D. GROWING TENSION AS RESULT OF MILITARY PURGE DIRECTLY TIED-IN

WITH STUDENT DISAFFECTION AND HANDLING OF STUDENT THE SHOUL

BE COMBINED WITH THIS TO SHOW "SERIOUSNESS OF SITUATION"' FACINO

CASTRO AND POSSIBILITY OF UPRISING AS INFERRED BY CUBAN OFFICIAL

IN WAVE 9556. ALSO, ASSOCIATE DEMONSTRATION CUBN UNIVERSITY

STUDENTS WITH DEONSTRATIONS STUDENTS INDONESIA, SHOWING STUDKYTS

?. NO LONGER INTIXIDATED BY CONUNIST GANGSTER SETHODS.

END OF MESSAGE

N'H Comment:

Gave prop guidance so AlLiSE case. ,

Refugeo reported seeing decrepit horse outside

University with sign "Don't push, I'll fall by

nyself."

"El Caballo" (the horse) 15 Fidel'&

nicknano.

CONTINUED/

LILIARING OPTICES

COOMON

TIMS ORVICENS

сла:

SECRET

PRODUCTION BY OTMAR

THAN THE ISSUING OMFICE IS PRONIO.

AUTMENTIGATIRO

OPPICEA

---

## Page 3

14-00000

rasinceiin:

I0..

IOPIES:

SECRET

itftiner Lo asosar 100-e9r.

X:0x0302268225023120%

HOUTIC

GINDEX

JIOINUCK

O FILE IN CS FILC ::Q

17.

&i

iTE:

TO

FREM: DIRECTOR

COHFS

UTOs VA, MIUI

RID COPY

PAGE THREE

TO

IAiFO

CITE DIR

86879

in ?::

Titaan

THOSAS KARAMESSINES

ADDP

A/DCWED/C_S/ 322.00

Wwa/c/cA lellaconcs

wc.0 *. 1224t0ste)

Belerin

C/WHD

AUTHENTI

ПРИКАВІВ ОТРІКА

POAM .

'h, ti manzt- oui"

MAN THE ISSUIMO OFFICE dS PROMIBITEO.

ianioia eo coie éca ipanlitariénsiaet oniemet ai tot alvan

con.

---

