# 104-10414-10389

## Page 1

AnnA

1104-10414-10389

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION.

TO

INFO.

FROM

SUBJECT.

SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Eivision

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

Chief of Station, JWAVE

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Contact Reports -- Meetings with<LTNAMIL 9)

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

PROCESSING ACTION

XX

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

PERUMEN (LITAMIL-9}

ELMA

There are attached two contact reports covering meetings with

on 16 and 27 November 1963.

Stilland Curtis

CURTIS

Attachment:

As stated

Distributiona

-C/WHD W/att

2 - C/SAS w/att

2 - COS WAVE w/att

2 - Files

2C6 Whatt to SAS ESC

IS COEX

i:*

CROSS REFERENCE TO

/ Ence

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMA 22588

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

8as/3

DATE

6 December 1963

HOS FILE NUMBER

2ol

32960

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

28 November 1963

MEMORANDU FOR THE RECORD

PROM

Lawrence I. Barker

SUBJECT:

Meetings with(LITANI=9, 23 and 27 Norember 1963

1. On the night of 23 November In, contacted Barker by phone and

a meeting was held from 2130 to 2230 hours the recent assassination of

L-I'S reason for making the

contact was to express his condolences for

President Kennedy.

It was clear that I-gwas badly shaken up by this

happening - when he spoke of Mrs. Jacqueline Kennedy his eyes clouded up

disce in fued

20 (L-→) was asked 15 he had ever ren eveld - Nor had ho ever heard

that Oswald visited the Cuban Embassy in Mexico -- no.

Did he know anyone

in the Cuban Embassy that knew Oswald or knew anything about him - no.

It this time Silvia Duran was in the hards of the Mexican police but (L-9)

was obviously unaware of her detention).

Asked what the reacgion of those

inside the Embassy was to the news of the President's death, (L-9) said that

he had heard very little talk about it, that the Saturday morning staff

meting was a short, perfunctory affair, but that just about everyone seemed

to be truly shocked.

He had heard no one expressing pleasure about the

He said that this reinforced his belief that once Fidel Castro

the Cuban people, even many of those who are now classified as

Patria o Muerte types, will quickly show themselves to be essentially good

people and essentially US-oriented.

3. 1-9) was asked to report on the aftermath of his conversation with

[-9 should report (to Armas.

1rmas apparently did not recognize AMFO-3 when he was mentioned - I-9)

may stared that he had received a call from Captato (Shame, felt that

Captain vantedíl-9) to come to see him at the Del Prado,

this was somewhat suspicious and told the Captain that if he wanted to see

I-9 he should come toiL-l's home. (Armas told(I-I that he had done the right

thing - that he should not go out making mysterious meetings with people in

hotels. (L-9) did not press the point but he believed that (Armas thought that

the captain mentioned was a Cubana airline pilot. Anyway, his skirts are

clean should the question ever come up of his having been contacted by 1-3 -

he reported the contact to his Ambassador. (I-9 remarked afterwards that he

really hated to brush off A-3 as the two families vere very close in Cuba.

Another meeting was held fron 2100 to 2245 on 27 November.

time the arrest of Silvia Duran was public knowledge and L-9) made it his

first topic for discussion.

He said that Silvia was back in the Embassy

the 25th and said that she had been held for 6 hours by the Federal

She seemed to be quite pleaser with her performance - said she kept

reminding the police that Mexico is a ime country and that the constitution

guaranteed her freedom from such persecution.

To this the police just laughed

and said that the constitution wouldn't do her nuch good in jail, she had

better cooperate if she wanted to get out.

She freely admitted that she had

seen Eswald in the Consulate, that he came looking for a visa but that Cuba

had answered the request (this seems like fast

corro) to the effect that

Oswald could not be issued a transit, visa en route to the USSR unless and

---

## Page 3

13-00000

1 SECRET

intil he received a USSR visa. She said that the cops had threatened her

with extradition to the US (seems unlikely) whereupon she said she would be

lad to no to the US to face Oswald. She said that complaints would be mad

o President LOPEZ Mateos through Enrique RAMIREZ.: (L=9 does not know wh

RUIREZ is or what his access to LM is) Silvia said that she was quite sur-

prised that word of her arrest was relayed to Raul APARICIO Nogales so fast

by (Mu) TREJO who flashed the word by 2300 hours 23 Nov.

At this point

Teresa PROENZA, one of the crowd listening to Silvia tell her tale, ordered

her nephew to leave - said,

"we don't want you around here." All in all,

silvia thought she did a good job of standing up to the police. L-repeated,

as he has done before,

that she is a very intelligent, quick-witted girl.

She did not appear to have been roughed up in any way or to have suffered from

her "ordeal."

5. LI- had nothing more to offer on the Kennedy assassination - was

again shown a photo of Oswald - never saw the man.

He said that there is

not much talk around the Embassy about the killing - perhaps because no

one is expected to approve of such a thing yet at the same time no one wants

to make too much fuss about it

for fear of being suspected as pro-American.

6. (L-9) reported on other matters as follows:

The Counselor of the Soviet Embassy (no name given) came to

the Cuban Embassy at about 1045 Monday 25 November.

He spoke

Fine pra, Hangot Nice redibasaador was not present at the

b.

Ing. JorgetTAMATO was in the Embassy on Monday 25 November.

He remarked that he had been to see DIA? Ordaz some time ago

about getting a permit to send his son to Cuba to see the heart

specialist Dr. Enrique CABRIRA. (I's son suffers from some heart

ailment). DIAZ Ordaz questioned T closely about the projected

trip (this was while DO was Minister of Government) and I took

advantage of the occasion to complain to DO that people from the

procuraduria had confiscated some medical slides from a Cuban

heart specialist at the airport. (I.-9 was the person who eventually

recovered these slides. According

to I, DO was somewhat upset,

that the procuraduria people had no

business doing this,

and saw to it that the slides were returned. IT said that Do

mentioned In? by name, telling I that he would see to it that

an order was issued for the slides to be turned over to I-9.

I passed word around the Cuban Embassy that everyone should be

very careful to speak only the best of Do who might prove to

be a useful friend.

A meeting a Consular officers fron all Cuban Consulates was held

on Tuesday. I-9, does not know what went on at this meeting.

la (L-9jwas paid 12,000 pesos - 4,000 each

for the months of Nov and

Dec plus 4,000 year-end bonus.

He was told that the C/O would be out of

town during most of December and he reiterated his desire to have the operation

put on ice during the interim - he is not anxious to be "exposed" to any more

Arrangements were made for an emergency commo channel

it might become necessary for us to contact him during the C/O's absence.

Details on next page.

8. (I-) asked B to buy him some oil paints) in the US - said that the

Mexican product is inferior.

will do.

(L-9) is doing a lot more painting

these days. He is now putting the finishing touches

on an oil painting)

SLORE!

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

f Camilo CIENFUEGOS which he plans to give to the Embassy, possibly to

be raffled off, proceeds to go to hurricane victims.

9.

done in tell

He was asked for additional detail on Iwisa talderon -- had

little to offer except to report that Luisa had recently moved.

He

believed that she had been living with the MAGlAD's and Peregrina ALONSO

but found that this was a bit confining and had moved "about ten days or two

weeks ago" to live with a lexican family. (I-I) believes that her mother

returned to Cuba some time ago.

Her, Luisa's, new phone is 30 - 62 - 65.

She "talks like a Communist," and speaks English --(L-9) thinks she has been

in Miami, Florida = does not know when. He says she is "muy mona" -- very

pretty. She is about 24 years old.

10. The commo arrangements set up with In were as follows:

Signal:

Someone will phoneL-I's) apartment at 0800 hours

saying, we will be buy to pick up the rug you want

clenned - something in this order that uses the wor

AL. FOMBRA.

1=9 will reply, "You must have the wrong

number."

Meeting: The night of that same day and on subsequent days until

contact is effected(L-9) will go to a public phone booth

at

the corner of Reforma and Avenida Monte Altai (Lomas)

at 2000 hours -- 8:00 p.m.

He will be approached by an

American who will have in his possession and clearly

visible a copy of TIE magazine and a pack of FILTRON

cigarettes •

No verbal signals were laid on. L,-9/ can

be readily identified from photos on file.

Note:

There is a bookstore - the one with the huge red

lighted sign L I BR ER I : about a half a block

up Peforma (up hill) from this phone booth -1-9 as

a confirmed bookworm) can lounge around here, brousing

until 2000 hours. (I-9) is punctual - always on time.

Person making call to (L-I's anartment should speak

excellent Spanish and should krep the conversation short.

DO NOT ASK FOR (I-I) by name - he is going to say it is

a wrong number. He lives alone and is always home at

0S00 hours.

JWAVE.

ne. contact.point phone booth, is on the right si

ing up Reforma -- beyond Petroleos monument - a sho

distance beyond the Chalwas restaurant.

11. (L-9) turned over some Havana newspapers which will be forwarded to

KaneF Burie

SECRET

50-6-1053

---

