# 104-10172-10309

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10172-10309

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

sonpoldoy on ce

VID OL NUNITE

SECRET

(EN MEN PILLED IND

20

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Dras a lino across lo abral undos noch poramaal

This Boutlad sod ferori annel aboutl NOI do roored tom lao allachos AIGORD Juturers.

22

FROM:

DOCUMENT NUMBER

KICROFILMED

DOCUMENT DATE

TO

ROOM

NO.

DATE

OFFICER'S

Pourage.

INITIALS

29,498

AUG 2 3 1952

CONCENTERO. SER.

NOTE: Il a copy or dilaDela dro resored iroas cho el

rachod document, nore ião tresaa al la copy dad/or enera-

maRI boreon

1l enLa RECO.1) COPY la 1o bo roieload la

lo llar al lho Doak, call to Cantral Muo Soctlas lor pas

?

3:5-Ply detains in Say.

Phare food id for eyesuction, Woll

J..

Snare 03

5.

зіб

45530

JUS 5

13 may MIZuss

03

Human 038Qund

1959 gal

161858

303/16E-13K

hose being sent de, s2/2 plastia.

OFHW<2832

22

10.

WEll-CE

"..

19.

1 4.

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER

RIIFI

8100

140EL

INCLOSURE

SECRET

" 4q. 1459

ABSTREL

INDEX

=

715R

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

cri?,

ano

Costle care D6 dora toler

4)80712:114913

IDERING CANS NETTO

Per Sara S

DIR 291.57

irinidam

17.80g:9

Cal dall besto median sit done

Liar Contiide's

student in the sara: indon (Sor Chu 3511) has croitie

up,

us surista: in reference cable.

antod Cestille ¿i die had had a pro time in Lie Soviet Dricha

157:19 Was

tho sarat Lae dan tad met sinoo cestille's tres,

isen tough colub had

called several ties to set a luncheon daie.) costille anshared Liai it

was un interistine trip, ad tha: te erogentle hellet and the icurist

sippite bus that re bad received on crerall led impression of the Scriet

Union because cê the treatment he receiird, jolut registered surprise ind

acked

what Curtilie acanto

cotille st-cai that he lad volkod inco ris

hotel roos in tesor aid Interrug a three Soviets searching his route.

Colus stopped eating and astor Costillo to contique.

cortil'e then pro-

cetard in tell die renplete story as gelaied 1: 07 3819 in as much detailz l

39: his Finish sould allon. Fe began tith the entri of Volodye on tre scare,

Volodyale obrious siirs in conversitio, ind Costille's Iraving the cera

enrij ind valkira into his hotel race.

le i is point colub

stated, "Tou

kror who these sea were don't you?o

§etero Costille couli cake an arser,

coluu sald, "The internal police " Cociilio caswared that it was all iairlo

obvious who the sen vere and that ther gore engaged in miking a fairio ei-

tensive sesrub o: his roam.

Tien trist

sade sone reregatory reniris shout

tin internal piice and agreed that i: has a singpo performance.

He stated

that there vere a lot of old cilitin zin sho transferred to the internal

police and sore not too bright and sare ised to this type cl behaviour.

He

continued tha: le couli not understand vig the police insisted in ratina

room searches, especially of hericias.

He said that he had witten a nimber

of times to l'osas varring that tricans should be left clone as ore tine

sorething like this would happen sad there rould he bad publicity. ha told

Costille that as soon as they had finished lunch he was going back to lis

offica and cable Xescow and rese a ofitcial comilaint.

He alyo stated clint

he would infor sno Seriet Arbassador so salsink of the treatment costille

rad received.

cossille said that he ales thought the thing fairly ridiculous

and wondered wist they expected ie tird. Colub answered, "Of course. drut

did they erreet to rind? you are greg 2nd this is the firet tize you bare

been oversess.

he did they thin you vere? There will ha thousands or

Americens la the live this summer.

Ires the internal police think they can

covor everyore c thes? This is riciculous."

Costiile continued

stati' that club had not teard

everythir yet

ard told hin i mein back to the more sid finting the Soviet girl hiring

dinner with volndra in the roam.

he loaked dispararingly and shook his

head as 15 in disgust. He also incericued such staterents ae:

mis is a scandal. I can't believe lion Costille told lis of

¡clodya's leablo ailerits ln give die ailuir on illegal black mariat assos-

phere rather idea a clariestire one.

Crina gaid that only a Scol s0:11

believe his stoit an it was chrious !'s: hey nore seshing Costille's

Costillo next old himof ire injient titl: che three chances co his

hotel rosa.

inlat stired, still laushing int steing his head as in räs-

"Or course, that is obrious tou.

They had four nock bu: €0, :-1

evidently soma frird diiticul:: amired tren ince herring

lie reparind a maber of iles the ocal, scarella

ÜBR

ковы

10 2 53

Maails

no an MUT

.19.9.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATIOY O

DISPATCH

22

?

Corinid

Presure it raine:

cratin

socialit for to

lotter

"re drink latt in donatch, fresh li; prestora

raid to nuct do thrider Chan Moron, Ste

Churrais co lie triario

wiel: coultile dat lie would geracroill cuirantee

that "e would is lett aler

waited bo lethrord walncever.

costite said

liu uld not knob it he milo hure dle line or noney to is back rain, but

muld think bo: ie, volut ragonird a monter of throg cial lie nouid report

the cline to doson in 9o =u0h detal! sa Costille hid cold it to his.

Co:e1llo use icid hit. tire of course de lad hod to rapart 18 to ETE:Cil here.

l'o love no resianse ic

this at allo te asked Coolille if he knew the nome

of this Intourist julie and if ne had s picture of his, so thie de could

notlty Moscon exsctly no it lias.

Cortillo stated Wiit he was not certain

f his last zane and that all ho inor nes volodya. lie also said int he dir

not think he heis snapshot of hir.

N:is is tric as Mr. Carrutherslecok o/

thn photo.) Colub asind costille for the date the incident took place.

In all of liclub's ramirks,

he attemptad to disasscciate hi-self from

ny curticipation or lachledge of the affair, placine the blare souarely on

the Soviet Internal polire.

(We assure he meant !VD.)

Ho showed disgust

and surprise and never orce asterpted to deny that 1t vas a roor search.

attributod 1t to the gereral nature of the lVD's suspicion of ery foreigner

and the sloppiress as heirr, typical of their actions.

Fe once stet od that

since it was so sloffy and all the Soulet participante were so joung it must

havo beon part of a "training problen" for ren employees am that Costille

Just happored to be the "problen targat."

It is practically inpossible to

conclude from Colub's statemento that he hai recoivad a report of clie affair

iron Moscow.

Thera is only ore sligit indicatión that he night have received

some roport on Costille's trip, and this pertains to Coalille'e Krouledgo of

the muesian langugo.

Golub had iot known that Costille hod pravious acquair-

tance with Fussier..

Costille hau not deniod this to liolub.

Just not couse up.

Stice. Golub speais no English, Finnish herare the zutual

Golub rever asked Costille if he knew Russion, and evidently assured

he dirt not. However, nhile in the Soviet Union, Costille used his Passion,

but only vary lindedis, to onder foor, ass prices in stores, and read street

The reguier Intourist guide, as woll as Volodys, were aware of chis.

However, Volodja and Costille used English togethor.

During the

Golid when Costille did no! understard a Finish word, Golub on one or ino

occagiong said the nord in fussian.

This was the first time he had ever tone.

thie with Costiile. Costille felt tiat he slould mention to Golub that te

had studied fussian for a short while in the liniversity, so he wouli not thirk

Costille was attempting to hide the fact that lie kiew Hussian.

Golub aivised

Costille to see a new Russian norie in torn. Costille said le would like to

but did not think his Firris" was that good to read the gub-titles and that

he had had only one semester of college Russian. Golub gave to indication of

boing surprised et this recaria Horever, this puttin" a lord non sid then into

russion night have bean noiling nore shan a nütural renction, since i: is his

first lenguage.

¡e are romardin: the picture of Volodya thit was tren by Mr.

Garruthers

irs. Cerruchero is also in tre jicturo.

Please Bare is Eirs 06

copies or this as fou like and retuin tie slica as nuickly as possibio, es

this is only or. door. to

¡e neuld niso appreciate any trices

on this Volodya Atair (i:zO(V).+

Cre let co tolera so dri nor include in the previcug dastater,

OHA 3419, which

bi: de of interest, then Volo lea was asked may tir u't not

Doet the lur ir tereon on the fire day, te argural that tie tid been reting

as ain of the interinters with trire dininter lncillan's prodj.

cade llls one referral do this, to na have no waj ne inowing le 1t is trie.

!? April 1953

Ernlosure:

dietritations

Picture

aL. costillo

Turba

nast ves

6/BR

Mura

Tiniaro

---

