# 104-10192-10035

## Page 1

104-10192-10035

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

10a 1213) 996 Provinna Idion 4 29-66)

FROM

JWAVE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

MICROFILMEO

MAY 27.1303

MSG. 1.8.9

ROUTING :

ACTION

IW

DOC. MICRO. SER.

INFO:

DCI, D/DCS, DOP,

ADDP.

SOD 4, DO/M, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OUS, CI/IC 2,

FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, RI/NU, WH/C 12, WH S.

lis, FILE, CS/RF.

SECRET T50034E

MAY 13 94457 65 IN 05754

SOIR INFO LANT EP LEZ SARR CIJE WAVE 1198

" INTEL TIPIC

21-7

SUPDATA: AMCLATTER-I FROM MIKE RAFFERTY (FLS PROTET): I

pit/c/es,

BELIEVES IT PROGAGLE THAT JOSCH PLANNING RAJO WITHOUT KNOWL LOGE

OF SILL JOHNSON SINCE BOSCH SUSPECTS JOHNSCN

IF BEING ODECON

INFORMER. RID INDEX. FILED 138054Z

RREPORT CLASS. CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM.

COUNTRY: CUBA

(SUBJ: PROBABLE ATTEMPT BY ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA,

LEADER OF THE

OMIRR, TO CONDUCT AN AIRSTRIKE OVER HABANA, CUSA.

→001: LATE APRIL 134,

YPADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (12 MAY 1965)

UFG-7158

SCURCE: A MIAMI BUSINESS MAN WHO WAS A RESIGENT OF HABANA FOR

SEVERAL YEARS. THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A

CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE.

M. COMMENT.

R

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROL ADDED.

JUDEXED AT CONTRON COPIES

WH/C

MI/REG

12

8

RELEASING I. WO.

03

TOCS DB-315/01628-65

"ROUTINE

PRIORITY

BASED ON:

UFG 7158

NO PROVECTCANCLATTERI

ANTHONY S: VAIVE

DATE DISTRIBUTED

13

NAY

0821Z

1965

SECRET

MAISON:

RACLUDED

•OUR AUTOM

Y.

O a

B

10 1359

581-251687

ÉPRODUCTION ::

RI COPY.

19-300-26

COPY

139:

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onlv

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREICH BATEN PANTROLLO D'

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO.

CENTRAL INTELLIDENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

.

ROUTITL

CUBA

TDCS 08-315/01628-65

LATE APRIL 1965

DISTR

15 MY 1965

SUBJECT

PROBABLE ATTEMPT BY ORLAIDO BOSCH AVILA, LEADER.

OF MIPP., TO CONDUCT AN AIR STRIKE OVER HABANA

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISAL:

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (12 MAY 1965)

REF

IN 65754

FIELO REPORT NO.

UFG 7158

A MIAMI BUSINESSM MHO WAS. A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. THE SOURCE

HAS CONTACTS VO RECOGNIZE MIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE.

sir: inha

- !, AS OF 30 APRIL 1965, "MIMO" HAD FINISHED MAKING 45 ROMES.

INCLUDING NOSE FUSES, FOR THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERA-

CION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIPR, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLLIT IONARY

RECOVERY • (FIELD COIRENT: "MIMO" PROBABLY REFERS TO GERVELIO

UTIERREZ CONCEPCION, A3$3% PEN 19TH AVENUE, MIAMI, FLORIDA, WED IS

BELIEVED TO MAKE ALL THE SOMES FOR THE MIRR.)

DURING THE WEEK OF C§ APRIL, ORLANDO SOSCH AVILA; LEADER FEi

OF THE MIRR,, SAID THAT HE HAD CONTACTED MELVINGHAYES, AN AMERICANAU.SA

PILOT, ON TWO OCCASIONS, ANO THAT HAYES HAD OFFERED TO BE A PILOT

Flu des

IN ANY: RAIDS AGAINST CUEA THAT THE MIRR MIGHT UNDERTAKE, PROVICED

Thia santortal contAIna InfOrmAlInn ASoClIDe Use MAilORal DOleDRO Ol lbe l'alled Slales withlo the MeADLAR Of 1D: Eprucanço LaTus. Tilla

19, U.S.C. BACH. 793 And 1P1, PRO PANAMAALOT OR TETELALIOA Of ViNICA LO DAY MANDES PO AN URALLDONZAN PATHOR LA PALIDITEd by laT.

CONFIDENTIAL

'i TOKLEN DISSEM CONTROILEC D'STEV

STATE/INg

DIA

ARMY /ACSI

NSA NIC

'Exi

AID • USIA

AD/CI 2

CIA/MCE TREASURY CUSTON'S

LENS COAST GUARD FAN

CORDER

PATPO

---

## Page 3

14-00000

AR FOREIA RASSA CONTROLEO DISSEM IN DID

CONFIDENTIAL

TDG3-315/01628-65 PAaE

THEY WERE INITIATED FROM OUTSIDE UNITED STATES TERRITORY. HAYES

ALLEGEDLY TOLO BOSCH THAT HE HAD BEEN WARNED AS TO WHAT WOULD HAPPEN

TO HIM IF HE BROKE THE LAWS OF THE NEUTRALITY ACT IN THE FUTURE..

(FIELD COMMENT: HAYES IS ALLEGED TO HAVE PARTICIPATED IN THE MIRR

SPONSORED AIR: STRIKES OVER THE NIAGARA SUGAR MILL ON 17 JANUARY

1965 AND OVER THE BAHIA HONDA SUGAR MILL ON 13 FEBRUARY IN NORTHERN

PINAR DEL RIÓ PROVINCE.)

3. BOSCH APPEARED DETERMINED TO GO THROUGH WITH HIS PLANS TO

EOMB HABANA: USING A B-25. AURCRAFT, EXPLAINING THAT SUCH AN OPERATION

WOULD "MAKE A BIG SPLASH." (FIELD COMMENT: FOR PREVIOUS REPORTING

ON EOSCH'S INTENTION TO BOMB HABANA, SEE CSD5-312/81037-65,

DATED 22 APRIL 1965;. TOCSOB-315/88652-65, DATED 24 FEBRUARY;

AND TOCSDB-315/40550-65, DATED 16 FEBRUARY.) BOSCH HAS ALREADY

ANTICIPATED WHAT HE INTENDS TO DO IF HE IS CONFRONTED BY UNITED STATES

AUTHORITIES. . IF THE OPERATION IS STOPPED SEFORE THE AIRCRAFT TAKES

OFF, HE WILL STATE THAT HE IS MERELY DOING HIS DUTY. IF THE CREW

MEMBERS MAKING THE STRIKE ABOARD THE B-25 ARE APPREHENDEU AFTER

THE AIRCRAFT HAS EVADED UNITED STATES AUTHORITIES, BOMBED HABANA,

AND RETURNED TO THE MIAMI AREA, BOSCH INTENDS TO EXPUSE THE. OPERATION

AS HAVING BEEN AUTHORIZED BY THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT. THIS

ALLEGATION, HE FEELS, WOULD FACILITATE HIS OBTAINING THE RELEASE OF THE

CREW.

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, CONKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FSI, CUSTOMS, LENS, BORDER PATROL, FAA AiM. USCG.

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

CONTROLLED DISSER,

---

