# 104-10310-10101

## Page 1

104-10310-1010

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

documen

Older

discuss respid

from on other paras,

азерить

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

30/116

File:

TO: Walt Elder

RE: SSC Letter of 12 January 1976 (76-0083)

1:

In an attempt to clarify the apparent confusion

cited

in para 2 of reference, ve reviewed the file and

based on an analysis of the Record and Routing Sheets, we

have been able to ascertain that prior to the assassination

two documents referred to by

Me. Wall, namely the October 31,

1963 Report of SA Milton Kaack and the May 12, 1960 Report

of SA John Fain while in possession of the CIA were not in

the official 201 prior to Novender 22, 1963. The former was

being routed to various components of CI Staff and not filed

until either the day of the assassination or a few days later;

while the latter was filed in another file unrelated to Oswald's

201.

We hope the above serves to resolve any questions related

to what was in the official 201 file on the day of the assas-

sination.

para 4 of reached e, in ties of the a cuments listed in

a. Para 4 P, items 69 and 70 are identical, hence

only one copy is being forwarded;

b. Para 4 B, item 64 gires a DIR 67737 which is not

part of the Oswald 201. We note

in the 201, however, a message

to DIR with an IN number of 67737 which appears to be the docu-

ment in question and is herewith included;

Para 4 B, item 74,'i5 a State Department docu-

ment and requires prior cleara-ce froz State for release.

d.

Para 4 C, iten 2, requests Mexi 6543, believe

Mexi 6534,

is the correct docuent and is being provided

vice Mexi 6543.

Para 4 E, item 28, assed for Mexi 7025 dated

November 29, 1965 which is not in the file, we believe the

document

herewith

SCRUTI 7125 dated November 1963- and is

---

## Page 3

13-000,00

r...

GRET

f.

Para 4 E, item 29, requests Mexi 7026 which is

not in the 201, apparently the correct document is Mexi 7126

which is attached.

Para 4 L, item 2. We could not locate the docu-

ment in the Warren Commission Files. Mr. Dwyer said he would

come to the building to check, admitting he may have provided

wrong date and file number.

3.

Attached are 4 copies of two additional documents,

previously requested, which Mr. Dwyer asked on 22 January

1976, to

be included with this package.

4. Attached is an iden list.

Pseudonyms are indicated.

Unfortunately on two occasions, we assigned two idens to the

same name, therefore, note that Iden 35 and 54 are interchange-

able as are Iden 26 and 29.

Although we have ättempted to

correct the mistake on the documents, there may be a few

which were overlooked. Sorry.

Dar

Niesciur

..T

---

