# 104-10219-10179

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10219-10179

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

- .

....

SEGNET

weren

11 March 1974

MEHORANDUM FOR: Domestic Collection Division

ATTENTION:

Mr. Shaun P. Ryan

SUBJECT:

Joseph R. MEROLA

REFERENCE:

HH 25826, 8 January 1974

1. On 10 January 1974 the WH/2/GS desk recelved the

• referenced memorandun from the Domestic Collection Division

Indicating the Miamt field office had been in contact with one

Joseph R. MEROLA.

MEKULA had just returned froli a business

trip to El Salvador; and he reported that a friend of his had

Identified a Mr. Gremillion in the Political Section of the

American Embassy in San Salvador as a suspect ClA representative.

Headquarters traces on Joseph R. MEROLA Indicated that on several

occasions in the past MEROLA had claimed that he was a ClA

agent.

The Chief of Station, the Mr. Greatllion referred to

above, was recently questioned regarding any Endassy contact

with

MEROLA while

the latter was in San Salvador.

The COS

stated

that both within the

Embassy community and at social

functions MEROLA had frequently referred to his contact with

the CIA, past and present.

He also volunteered this infor-

mation

to a former

Station contact.

2.

In light of the above, l& mould appear that MEROLA

had taken

advantage of his agency contacts in an Inappropriate

manner to the potential embarrassment of the San Salvador

station.

He would, accordingly, appreciate. that this be given

due consideration in your assessment of the advantage of your

continued contact with hia.

Davia L. Smocl

:/ WH/

2 LAPDE

L BY 50940

-GRET

---

