# 104-10103-10075

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10103-10075

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HIMA - 10325] dated I0 July 1962. Mexico city

Station, KAPOK, dispatch with attachment:

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduc

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

FLASSIFICATION

PRO

NO.

Chief. Task FoLed W

Chief, wi Liver !an

FROM

X

Ch101 0159:vi0.

SUBEGKAROK/Operat

GYROSE Progress: Repont on Detection

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

and Reeruitmept Activities:2fStay9P, Mexico

? z

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARNED FOR INDEXIME

NO INDEXIME REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFICO

HEADQUARTIAS INSA

CAN NUAGE AMTRIAN

ABSTRACT

MA:CROFILM

ACCOM

PLISHED

WILLING. CUATIS

That Fe.

1::.

"tis

- DO NOT D.

2250X-

Attachment?

Dist-1bu, 10n8

5 CROSS REFERENCE TO

3-Files

CLANSIFICATION

DATETYFED

1.112

DATE DISPATCHED

10 dinin:

DISPATCH SIMBOL AND NUMBER

rACK 14t

CANQUARTERS FILE NUMBI

19-124-6

---

## Page 3

Perrel Hepart on Derantien and Recrus it Activitien

C 200" 2

Dearer Nexco has been involved at deie-to.

mostly from the Cuban Emoasty

Caty.

•The mo:? Important of these was Jost PARDO Llada, who was sot

in efficial

and not, Ic:: he Embassy, but was next to Castro himsell

among to Cio:: masses.

An unuscessiul "approach" was made to lubino tie

station currently has one pereiratlud

24 See an a ve ean Station agent in lose and end contact we

anger Imbis: iT ufficlal. In cildition, the Station 1s now follow hi an tia pos

• ¿tr of di

=otion of a well-known offlolal of the Confederacion de Tsat. lador

Besides Jose PARDO Ilara, the abuve-mentioned defections, - a?1 successful

sWOLf actions - Included:

Behorinted

6. Dullan ARIAS Prudg, Cuban vice consui Sion los Angeies:]

-D. LAntOnIo R. MONTANES LOredO GuNLi foreign GorvIce OrIcIal:

B. {011da PORTELA Margolles de MONTANES, Cuban Consul]

05

F. Robertc ROCA:Rosillof

G. [Pedro Lucas ROID: Orteral Cuhan fonnercial) represtntative.

In addition, the Stailor: Mide an unsuccessful "approach" to Rali rio CUBELA

Segades, Estülar head of the sturits in ruba at that time.

The "aproach" jonsiste

of a"friendly" talk between : ¿ba ion fa = Officer, a mutual filend 'o: CURElA eni

CUBELA when the last-mentioner sisü vistsing in Mexico.. While CUBELA did not pick

up the opportunity at that time, he appacently did not report the Incldent to tli

superiors and the groundor's may ildve been laid for similar action 1: The niture.

the Embassy LITAINI-6 furnished listle of value. The term "recrullaent" has been

plaoed' in quotes to indicate that nons if these agents was ideal from the at capoin

at canarel, except LMADUS-3,

who, althouch low lever, Proved out in the i an

SECRET / KAPOK

---

## Page 4

.*0l

"' to repori la

channel has never been activäted at his end, in spite of the faci thai ÄMsseVER-3

was sent in to juba'as a legal traveler to ascertain why not. Apparei.'!i

LIOOZE-1 prefers not to run any ricks laside of Cube Itself.

current situation

the station as one hot on Lee gator dare pursent to everes.

major value 1s that he 16 inside the Cuban Embassy with the operatlonal

advantages basically implled: He has little access to confidental infurmalion

but 1s able to bringtout propaganda, pffie12) Cuban letterueads and bie tie.

hope that Lilk"ll-Wwill turn out to be another altAlus 3.

The Station's best chance of retting, worthwhile Information from the lailas: y

who works in the sane sectin: as STOKE-I

11d formerly. While assessments of AMSTEl-Ihave not yet Irdicated liai a moper

pitch can be made to him, he 1s for all practical purposes already Munlah! ig much

Information of value to LIMASK-1, a veteran KUBARK agent who 16 in 10i1iaie Con"20"

Mith nim.

Current Station defection tärgets include the Cuban Ambassador minuel!, wha

has many times been reported to le susceptible, and odon aunt de a famid an

Important official of the CICK in Cuba, who reportealy hes sent ult messages.

N. B

that be sisshes te defect.

The Station

1s now trying to det more infoniüir In

the latter caso.

"DEFECTES"?) IN MADRID

IN 1965. HAS RELA

Involued in questionaile

ActivIties in us.

Jime bereton. FBI

allegatins.

Hollers

7eb.1979

S26R2T / KAPOK

---

