# 104-10165-10140

## Page 1

4-0000

104-10165-10140

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

•ALECIA, VESTEYEDAT CI: MEAURTERS PY

INESE SELICT COPITTLE DU ASSASSISATIOUS STAFF METES

THER

FILE TITLE/NUISEP./VOLUII::

CINETI; LUCIEN E.

0-1322749

£ 1378

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

1944

18/120/P50

Pon!

DATE

RECEIVED PETURITED

15 APEST

REVIEWED BY

(PPINT NNIE)

SAN HARDWE/

SIGNATURE OF

REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Hardway

202

L+,

AUS,

NO

DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIEH OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILI.

RETCAN TO RECORDS CENTER

IQUECHATELY AFTER USE

1084L-829_B0X 82

438499

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ARCHIVES/RECORDS CENTER ME ATE SLANIEL

3.

FROH:

IO:

LOG DATA

IDATE

19040715

c'?/

ACTICA-#EGUESTED. iN'

LEEP, RETENT.

Tests

DOREE GIGUESTER

TEL. BOTENSION

OFFICE

;:.

FOR ARCHINES/REÇORDS CENTEF. USE

SERIE SINGER

FUETES

SOTIFIED

TO rEqUEStEr.

Please return this reference

to IP/ARD/PSU Immediately after

use.

• J. GiQliotti

35/10006

7.

8.

9.

10.

81:

72.

13.

14.

15.

RETURN TO:

IP/ARD/PSU

610 Tons

18700

+0B44-827_B0X 82

IUUECIATELY AFTER USE

RETEN TO RECERO; tENTER

U380.99

NV

di

GA-50

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

RECORDS CESTER

JOB NO._

101-897

SPACE 50. 438499

frasertoass Pers20

DOCUMENT

FOLDER 50.-

CarPin

вох Nо.-

-87

E2 LAPDET CL B7: 062147

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

. C

---

## Page 3

14-00000

•=-.

DATE JUDe 10

19

I certify that

Conein

Lucien

E.

C=1322769 1st. I5.

(last nano) (first) (middlo Initial) (ASk & Rank)

has been subsisted in a Governaent ge3s fra 12 Peate

_ through 31 May it

(date)

and ones the U.S. foverment

20

45313

(number)

@ 8-25 per meal.

Lucin? Coxein, 1431,

Contents UNCLASSIFIED.

60978

---

## Page 4

14-00000

TOUCHER FOR REE DIEM AND/OR REIMBURSEHENT O50 D. Vo

D. O. Vor. No. -

7361

1841)

OF EXPENSES INCIDENT TO OFFICIAL TRAVEL

Bureau No.

Stubearal ol account mud be corapletely fibed is by paper prior to rignature, and ibera merl sol be any erastra dr alteration under isituated de rizared by birs)

Soonerd Accounting Oce

PREAUDIT

Corrised lot payment ta tha

• DaKo ETa

U.S.

conoin

Offcial Headquartere

Domicilo _

1 PROBT

(Department, bartes, de seat.

THE UNITED STATES, DE., TO iNStERaTE: I CICH To

TEd Vr 1322768

Caar..

F.D.

8 ?i1-)??

SHiL

Residence -

J'or too ol Peytay Ofsca)

FOR PER DIEY in lieu of mabeissence, mileage for privately owned motor rehicle, sodior REIMBURSESENT

al tratel and other expedoes paid by me in the discharge of official duty trow...

10-28-2-58 - 19 top as per lemirod ola cea vitia; Vodar artiery 9270 a d25 un it

lido, copy of which is attached, " of has been previously furnished with voucher Na

→ pald -

. 19_, by

AMOUNT

DOLLARS | CINTA

1020.

(Pope vill NOT too ebis opace)

288 Ito,

COXEIN

(Signatze or initials)

MEMORANDUM

1823

ACCOUNTINO CLASSIFICATIO! (fE carplets by satriorita dadoe)

LOLLIDAS OR PROTEC

ДНОСТУ

272150425

-P3A-196,20,

61-301-5-432-02

Arora

JACIRATRI

810.50

symbol

Tl....

By toel

Pall by choos va

(Cans, 810-50

- 01

575

→ dated

- 19

Contente UNCLAESIFIED ONL

→ for 8.

(i red pad to ta sitates

---

## Page 5

14-00000

ITEMIZED SCHEDULE OF TRAVEL AÑD OTHER EXPENSES

1. Date and how of departure irom cficial headquarters ..

3. Give duty status on first day of rescher period:

*ArtiTed at _

--01

→ 19.

for temporary duty for apprazimate period

Approximate daie of return to cIcial headquarer! -CO

→ 19-

3. 1State authorized per diem in lien of subsistence, $-

1. (State authorized allowance for secual subsistence expenses: Not to esceed 8-

Se Tro for rise a personal era rainer or thresh to all of dare boro i interation ol travel, dorition.

from the direct route, or hero traveler delaya at a piace other than post of duty, a statement stowing the facte

should appear on the toucher.

sch rato must to dire

ANOTST

NOTATIONS

1Y 8500

21

28

50..

SCHESTIN

Ioperted 569 °A9

AFILTON SCAPER

1030 UrB.

1600 LIS.

11/2 DaYS a 17.00 por dey €10.50

I certify tet bi georet or co risential orters illa travel of

Luolen =. Cosein,

Inf., 0-1322768, was orderad in the pilitary

datod ano tiro of departure and errival are as gratsd, "berson; shét no..,:

Coverzent -uarters cr ratlons sere furnishod except is strted above.

I baTe St04a OI callod tO tho reylag GlaburBing Of ELeat 01f100s

e cogg of tha secret of confidential orders wilob uno the bisle or tulg

voucter before payient.

I cereity that the nbore statorent relatlia to delariço and

resura lo just and true in allsospec; thes exorg there necessary sor

the reasons stated; that no coveranent quarters or laulons sere suraisied

anlaus necessary? end that in all coBes fila, ous rasure: Is soOn es

bania

..6124.1719

matrial rigat

JHE

-tellinite

CHARD

F4718

FERENES

80 JUL 194;

740217÷43

-i!.F:"

"...a.

195

TES IS

---

## Page 6

14-00000

201 Concin, 21.

OFFICER'S SIATOVENI LE SORTICE FOZ LONGSTITI FAY

(Is ascordance vita Dia-ges 1, AR 35-1350, Sept. 13, 1943 ard/or ciranzes 2,

1R 35-3120, Sept. 13, 15-3)

Statenet of service in comectica tit'c ircreased pay fer length of

BerVICe, UpOn f1ling lit initie: pay and allos-ce accusit and any succeed-

1n vorchers claling alsitional increised longevity credits a signed

certificate as lollous:

:27 501÷ 1944

(date)

• Ist Lt.

(nane)

0-102.7E9

(serial no.)

::03

(RA, MG, 056,305):

heresy certily that I late bell a camission; appointment as connissionee

varIans officer, verrati Difica%, fiigio officer, or guay field clerl: o= bave

been enlisted as a reuber of the restocaive serticals) shorn below jor the

inclusive periods indi sated.

I. Fiances certity ii ali Fational Guera service

elatned hereon sas Federali, recognised; that it was rut in the Inactire Jatica-

al Guard; that all Orizers: Training Caim servica was in the capacity of an

enlisted na= and at all izitial appointients are shown fros the datc a

Cosponent or Service

1: 0 iS

sulisted

From

dE oct 1923

To

Lê Oct 1328

mlisted

23 Cot 1958

3 tar: 1340

LAD S

# listed

23 Jert 1341

25 July 1945

Ferrant Officer

2nd L8 i0 3

Canissioned

26 JulT 1943

1 apr 1044

Ist Lt it3

Camissioned

1: :2r 1314

arto

Comaissiosed

Piro lost under A.Y, 107 :0I9

(sigature)

(erado and organization

Bontents UNCCASSIEJEL

---

## Page 7

14-00000

...

1 CONdAN LUCIEN E

INF

i Sep.=

MRS JEANNE A ALBEE

1Es:g0:.

DALIONMANOR Apt 46 PM

is: Fee:

BeNICA

SINGLE

3t:

TIXTH0 Gay

"THe DOSS:

* INSTRUMENT CP! ARTILLERY

e: DETtiturd a5 11: c.i

0-1322769

ISTLT

denti!

!=.ro.

29 NON 1414 _ CATHOLI

CRINTER

rapation

(PACIE!C)TO JAN 6, 1943) ETO NOv23 1943

52Sc clas

14 yes

Ha Stori

Gojlere

11.

ispritri

aCS. Ft BENNING

Р.іі.FO!

1è. dálliong:

FRENCH.

FLUENT

10i "aco 2094, Cllla:: n01:195, dis.)

18. 19G 0"1d0.

Contente UNCLASSIGER -

Data uh192

У мислЕвьний

---

## Page 8

14-00000.1

EUROPRAN TRUER UN UPPPIN IONS

UNITED SENTES dUET

In158

11:

lates 25 June I.

ANCUT/hOr

APO 887

25 Juno 1944

1G 80004 (21 Jun 44) 1073P

subjeots Orders

POs

Officers and enlistod men coreu: nod

1, The officers end enlistor set srined below,

OSS, STOJSd, will procoed

by first available nir tronanortation (Class II

Priority) fros their present

station in tho Unitod Kingdon to alziers, North arica, reporting upon arrival

to the Cormanding Gonoral, MatolSi,

jor detached sorvico in connection with.

• O3s aotivitios. Upon caplation of tais duty they will reture by first

arailable transportition to their : roger station in thio Unitel Xingdons

CAPT EVERETT TO iLIES, 0140395, FA

CAPI LOISON DO GUILLE: OliUT::2, FA

IST LI LICIEN F. COELY, 01322768,9 InS

ISE LT RIY H, FiSTE., 01288037, Inf

1S5 LE TILTRA GO ENTUA, 01278174, PA

I Sgt Robert J. Indorsoz, 17155767

T Sgt Frcacis Ma Pacho, 18133196

I 8gt arthur Gruon, 12141816

T Sgt J0La T. Van Eart, 35455498

20

T00 3 Thans F. TrEOy,, 12202816

Travel w1ll bo porfornod by zilitary, raval or oomeroial aircraft,

limy or Naval transport, cororoial steamship,

belligerort vessel or aircraft

and sailo la bagsago ailomanoe of 65 lbs is authorized whilo traveling by air.

3o. In liou of subsistenco a per diem of saren dollars ($7.00) 1s

athorizod each of tho offioors nored ebovo while erroute to und returnin

iron-this deteched service, (exoopt rile on a Govermont operated vossel),

Is socordarco with existing lon and regalations.

At such tines as messing

feollitles oro avallabio and Govorces quartors io furnishod, this por diem

allomando will be suspendedo

4a It boing inpracticablo for the Governert to furnish querters end

cooking Iccilitios fur retions in kliù, tho Finenes Dopartment will pay enoh

of the enlisted non raned sbovo the nicotory allowences in lies thereof as

presaribed in ser 2a, in 55-4520, while encouto to and returaig frou this

dataobod service, (except: tilo on a Gorermant opercted rossel), except visore!

Govorment quertors nad/or rations aro rtailablo. à per dien of sevon dollars

(87.00) 10 autiorizod each of the calisted son nad abovo mallo travoling

by atro

Бо ICHT.

IDN.

60-136, 300 $ 132-02, 03 & 212/40425.

6o

Relabursumont for thi expense inourrod in connoction with this travel

vill bo undo to thu ler Departmont by the Offloo os Strategio Services.

Tho

Finanoe Officer ruing pryzent in conraution with toe travol performed will

subatt n oopy of tho voucher, shoring tie -nount cald, nonth la which pald,

vosaber numbor and citation of this ordor, by loster to tho idjutant Gineral's

afico, Mashington, D.C.. attention Fiserl Sootion, stating that one i rolosed

oopy of the toucher is furnished for the purpose of seouring roimbursement fros

tha office of stritaglo Sortluedo

dote 25t

---

## Page 9

14-00000

AG 300.$ (21 Jun 44) 1076P, IIQ EIOUSÁ, APO 887, 25 Juno 1951 (Cont) :

Attention is invited to Section II, ND Circular No. 145, 24 Juno 1943,

rogarding the preparction and distribution of extract copies.

•By command of Genorel EISaNdor:s

a Carle

do H. CORLEY, JT.,

Lt Col, AGD,

bast hajutant Goner

DISTRIBUTIONs

TAGa..i00.

CG, NATOESA.

088, London

offiopr

Moo....

(6)

(6)

088, Washington

08S, Algiers.

Gola....o..

Go2

Brocutivo 1G0.

Pr

forities

TrAffic

offico.

Attar: Capt Misenan.

OffIcers! Br..

Balisted Br, APO 871

Pera Mise Br, AGO.

• 61

.6

misteron

---

## Page 10

Fire ans

DROPRAN TREMIER. OF UPYPIRIONS

UNITED S:1D8 dinT

• Es, Eroush o

Inits

AH0J5/hor

APO 887

25 Juno 1944

AG 30004 (21 Jin 44) 10768

Subjeots Orda's

Offloors and enlisted me: corcerned

The officore red enlistol ben r: id icles, 098, TOUSà, Till procood

by first available nir ternaportation (Clasa II Friority) fros their present

station in the Unitud jingdou to algiors, North: sirica, reporting upo:: arrival

to the Carnanding Gunirel, MATOrSi, for detached service in contection with

• 088 aotivities.

Upon complation of this duty they will retura by first

availablo transportntion to thoir proper stution i. tho United Kingdoms

This

CAPT EVERETT TO slitti, 0140595, FA

CAPI MALSON SO GUILLOT, 01167432, F6

IST LI LUCIEN EO GENEIN, 01322768, Inf

IST LT RAY HO FOSTER, 01288037, Inf

IST LI MALTER CO FinVA, 01173274, PA

I Sgt Robert d. Indorsos, 17155757

T SEt Ererois La Pocho, 18138196

I 8gt irthur Gruon, 12141616

pot. I Sgt Jaba I. Van Eart, 354554982204e6

Too 3 Thomas Go Trecy, 12202816

SO 123, ETOUSA

2o Iravel will bo perforaod ty nilitary, stal or comeroial aircrart,

lay or Naval transport, corercial starship, belligerent vessel or viroraft

and rail. a baggago alloranoe of 55 lbs is autiorized while traveling by air.

So In ileu of subsistenco a per diem of seren dollars. (17,00) 16

authorized enci of tho offioers nued above whils erroute to and returnin

From this detached service, (croept mile on a Gotermont operated vossel),

In ascordance with existin? lor and regulations. At such times es nessing

faollities are availablo and Goverment quarters sre furnished, taio per dies

allomanoe will be suspended.

So. It boinz inprncticablo. for the Govormart to furnish querters end

oooking fecili ios for intions in klad, thu Flecase: Department will pay each

of tho enlisted mon nured above the monotary allurences in lieu thereoi as

prosoribed in sur 2a, iR 35-4520, nile enrouto to ard returning fron this

dotaohod service, (except whilo on a overimant opercted veesel), except ubero

Governent quertors and/or rations aro ara'labli.

(87,00) 18 authorizod each of tho calisted sen ansad above while traveling

by a1r.

Бо Tit.

6.

TDI.

60-136,. 300 р 132-02, 03 d 212/40425.

Roinbursinunt for the expense incurrad in connootion with this traval

vill bo mado to thu jiar Departiont by the Offico ol Stratoglo Sorvices.

Tha

Finando Officor siling pryment in conrootion with the travel performod #1ll

subalt a oopy of tho voucher, sho.ring the anount fald, nonth is wilch paid,.

voucher numbor and citation of this ordor, by lotcar to The idjutuat General' 81

stating that one inolosed 1

the Offloo of Stratagio Servivds.

Dedossife J by 969218

tate serifist

r. "= i. (0705):

---

## Page 11

14-00000

- SE 300,$ (21 Sui 48) 10767, IA 3OT5ÃO AS0 N8T, 28 tune IViA (Cont),

attention 1s Inifted so Section II, NO Circuler No. 145, 21 June 1943,

rogarding the preparation nad distribution of extract copies.

By coumand of Farerel EISDIETRI

do Ho

CORLEY, 35.

Lt Col, AGD,

Asst adjutant Gen:

DISTRIBITION&

TAG.....0.

CG,

NIT 0054.

08S,

London.

Ba

officer

Ba

BO0..

(6)

(6)

OsS, Hastington.

O8S,

algiers...

Gol..

G2.

Eroutive

iG0..

Priorities & Iraffic Offico, Art,

Capt Mlisenan-

Offioers! Br...

Enlisted Br,

APO 871

Pers Mise Br, AGO.

retaine

i apier.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SiOUEA

APO 337

25 Fuza 1954

A0 30004 (21 Jen 11) 107CP

• Subjeots Orderso

POR

offloors and Balisted Hen Coriterzodo

This 18 to oertify that to officers and erlisted mon nazed belor have

beon ordored to proceed to Horth ¿Irica and roturno The Sallaring is an extraot

of thoir ordora mich aro datod 25 dino 19÷40

CAPT EVRUETT I. ALLEN, 0$40295, PA 1ST LE LICIEN E. CONTI, 01322763, Int

CAPT NELSON Eo GOILiOI, 01167152,

Lui LI DAY BO FOSTER, 01288037, Inf

• 157 LI TALIER E. EARL, 21176174, FA

I Set Robert Jo Andorsos, 17155757.

I Sgt Franois la Pocho; 18138195

Sgt Arthur Gruon, 12141816

T-Set Jihn To. Van Fart, 35455493

too 3 ThorAs Go Iracy,

12202016

20

pravol Mill bo periorned by nilitary, rital or comercial aircraft

Army or laval transport, comorolai stcanship,

bolligoront vossol or sircraft

and fella a baggage allommon n 55 lba 16 authorizod wallo traveling cy airo

In l1ou of subsistenco a por dium of sevon dollars (47.00) 1s authorized

soon of tho officors nozor abora while enioute to and roturning fron this dotached

sortioo, (oxocpt while on a Govorsont operated rossel), 17 accordance sith

oxisting lan and regulutions.

It such ties rs rcasing faoilitios are evailablo

and Goveramont quarters aro suraished, this por diom allomaco will bo suspondodo

4o It volvs impracticallo for tho Govormont to furnish quarters and

oooking facilitios for rat1o1s 1: 'ind, the Pleanco Departeont will Day caoh of

tho mlistod mon nased abovo tho ¿otury allamascos 1n lieu thoroof is prosoriood

¡In pa. 20, AR 35-4520, while curcute to and returnlig ston this dotaciod servico,

(oxcopt thilo on a Governon: operited vo.: cli, excopt uhero Governucas quertors

asd/or rations aro arailablo, i yer dien of seron dollars (ü7.00) 19 cuthorizod

each of the enlista: men noned aboro while tratoling by allo

Бо ІСНТ• ІД!!.

00-136, 300 P 432-02, 63 & 212/504250

• 6о

Reinburiazent for the axenso inourred in connootion with this travel

Mill'be sado to tho Mar Departuent by the Offfco of Strategie Services.

The

Financo Offloor saking paynont in someotion with the travel porforaod will submit

a copy of the voucher, showing the count paid, month in mhich noid, touchor numbo.

and oltation of this

order, by loiter to The injutant Genoralls Offico, Mashingto

Do Co, ittontion Fiscal Soction, stating that one inolosod copy of the toushor 1s

furnished for tho purposo of socuring roimbursmont fron tho Office of Stratoglo

It Col,

AGD.

Asst AdJutant Copera

---

## Page 13

14-00000

L5J/at

A7O 8371

25 arras

11944

16 50004 (21 Jen 41) 1075F

subjoots orderso

Offloors and Enlistod Yen Concorrado

GEERACI

This is to cortify that the officers and enlisted non nated belon havo

beos ordered to proced to worth africa ald roturs. The follwing is an extrast

of thoir ordors rhich aro autod 25 J=o 19÷50

CAPT EYELETT TO ALLEN, 0442595, Pi

IST LI LICIEN E. COLEIN, 01322767, Inf

CAPT BELSON E. GUILLOT, 01167452, Y'a

IST

IF RAY H: FCST2R, 01280057, Inf

ISE LT FALTER G. SATia, 01178174, FA

I Sgt Robort Jo Andorson, 17155757

I Sgt Franois l&. Pocho; 13152196

I Sgt Arthur Gruo, 12141816

T•S+, Inha I. Vas. Eart, S5455÷98

Toe 3 Thosias Go IraCy, 12202616

20.

Travol 111: bo porferied by silitary, naval or comercial aircraft,

iray or taval tra-:port, cororeul steanship, belligorent vossel or sircraft

and reila l baggago allorancy o 55 lts is authorizod shilo traveliar, by alto

In liou of subsistono a por dia of sevon dollars (17.03) 1s authorized

oach of tho officers ranod abora while encoute to and roturning from this dotachod

soryloo, (oxoopt while on a furorient epersiod vessel), in accordezo with

axisting lan and regulations.

•st such times as mossing facilitios ero crailablo

and Gorirmant querters aro dirrishod, this por dion allamico mili be suspondodo

It boing inpracticatic for tho Gronmont to furaish qua-ters and:

oooking taoilitios for ratiors is kind, the Piranco Departront will lay anob of

tho enlistod noa cared abovo the sorotiry allotuncos in liou thorco? is prosoribod

1n par 28, AR 35-4520, whilo exrcuto to ad returning ira this dochod servioo,

(coccupt thilo on a sovurnt overited vossel), excopt whoro Gotranat quartors

and/os rations aro arallablo, à sor dicn of seven dollars ($7.00) is authorizod

paos of the onlisted men nomod aboro whilo treveling by air.

5. ICHT.

SINO 60-136, 300 P 432-02, 03 & 212/10÷25.

6..

Raimbursa-ent jor the axpanso icourrod in concotion with this travel

will bo nado to tho lar Lopartzont by tho difco of Strateglo Servises.

Tho

inarco officor maling pament in conroosicr with the travel perforaod till subalt

a copy al the voucher,

shoring the cacint paid, month in thiah pal, rouchor nureber

and citation of this

order, by lotter to the injutant Gereral's Cilco, lashingtai,

Do Co, attorstion Fiscal Soction, stating that oue inolosod copy of the vouohor is

Paraished for tha purpose of socuring rolibursoment from the offico es Stratoglo

date.

---

## Page 14

14-01100

15T17., Jae...

CONFIDENTIAL

FINE QUAF LORS

EUROPEAN LENTER OF CADRATIONS

UNTION STATUS MY

RPF/kEC/ebe

AG 31104 2

16 September 1943

SUBJECT: Clearance Through Custors on learing and

Enterig the United States of Official Couriers,

Kilitary Personnul, id Civilian Fersonnel Under

Jurisdiction of the liar Departmant ino are

Currjing Classifiod Yaerial.

TO

: Commanding Generals:

SOS, ETOUS",

Eighth Air Force,

v Corps,

[celand Dage Conmand.

CandiRa Bie east clining ener, those.

Com uncant; Americán School Center.

1.

Letters; this headquarters, dated 2, February 1943, 18 Lay 1943

and 9 July 1943,

file as alove, subjoct: "Cisaranco of i-my.

Officer Couriers

and Civilian Pursonel undor Jurisdiction o. the ilar Depertzent through

Custons on Leaving and Entiring tie United States" are rescinded.

2. In order to eliminate calay in the clearance trough Custass of l

official couriers, ailitary parsonnel, civiidan enployers of the war Depart-

ment, and civilian employees of contrictors for the far Department ca leaving

and enteriz the United States, and to provide a nethod zz which matters ai

official nilitary naturo can ta licensed and passid by Castons without ex-

antontion, the following procidure has been established and is row in effect:

3. Orficial Couriers.

(1)

Military personal acting in-the capacity if a special courier

will bear a lotter signed by of 3y authority of the Secratary of War, the:

Under: Sacrutary of Tiar,

an Assisant Sucrutary of War; tie Chiof of Staff,

the Canianting Guneral

of the any broid forces, the Commanding Dineral of

the brey Air Perces, the Commanding Cuneral ci tho dmy Sarvice Forces, an

Assistant Chief of Staif of tre iar Departant Gineral Staft, the Chiefs of

the supply and acainistrativ: servicos, a fimral offices, the comaning;

officer of a depot, post, cary, station, or independent comind, the con-

mandant of a gurural or

speci: sirvice school, thu chief of a military

nis.

mission, a nilitary attachi, or a nilitary cos-rvor, a Curior Transior Offi-

Сіг,

a Military Intelligence (fertilying) Cericor, or tsuir ruspoctive

executive officors cortifying to the official erpacity of the courier.

This

letter mill also describe by precaju or litter numbers toz exterior covera of

any official docurents that ara disirud to be axempted iran exumination bý

Custons. (Sue paragraph (3) belor)

CONFIDENTIẶL

---

## Page 15

14.00000.

•(AG 3110:7, Hq STOlSh, 16 Saptinbir 1943, contia)

(2) Each package or envelope containing official attor that is top

be exerpted from uxmiration will bear on its exterior corr the inscriptions

"Officiül Inited States jry Communication Scepted fron Censorship", Pollard

by the si nature and official title uf the Comandine Officer ol' his erecutive

oiflar iispatching the docurents by special courier.

(3) In ordir to establish a unifors procedure to comply with the

requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) scove, the foilowing is subaittid as

guide:

War Department

HERD CUARIORS ARMY GROUD FORCES

Bashington 25, Do Go

311.!:

10%

iugust 24, 1943

Subject: To Identify (Captain John Snith) as an Official my Courier.

Collector, E. S. Bureau of Custors, (Port of [eparture or Entry).

1.

Ine above naned purson is acting in an offici.l capicity as courier

for this coadquarters and is currying tro packagis and one lüttir. The pack-

ages are adiressed is foilars:

Nc. 1, Do the Corsinding Scheral, Alaska De-

tense Errand, fron be idjutant benera, war Departrent, Hashington, D. C.;

No, 2, To the Commendi ay Ceneral, diasto Defense Commad, fron the Cannoing

General, any Ground Forces, War Depertrent, Hashinetor, D.C..

The: letter is

addressed to the Carming General, alasto

Delense Cornard, fron the Contand-

ing General, irmy Service Forces, Mar Departsent, Washingion, D.C.

2. Each of the above items is further identified by the inscription on

the cover "Official Taited States Cormunication to be Bizapted frac Censcr-

ship", followed by tas signature and title of the respective corranding

officers or exocutive officers.

For the Cozending General:

JOHT. ADARS,

Major, Infantry,

Brecutive Officer.

(4) All otter communications carriad by official couriers mill be

surrendered to the listons oificurs at ti- fort.of departure or entry into

tho United Statos. Men a other docuests mich are official in character

and wessary in the interust of our var cliort, inclusing corfidential ind

sucret ardors are fard, Custong mill imediately ruquist the noarust Mili-

tary Intelliguncu Sirvice Branch Office, or District Offico, or representa-

tivo tbarcol, for certification in to thuir official saturo and ixerption tron.

pansarship uxamination.

Military Parsonnel.

---

## Page 16

14-00000

(AG 311 4 8, Ha, ETOUS, 16 Siplastir 1943, ecstre)

(1) If military personnel arrive it sorts of diparture or entry

without coplying with the provisics of sut-paragraph a (1) and (2) above,

all persozal documents vill be surrindered to Castons for ensorship aramin-

ation.

Then classified orricial documints or docurents claired by the

traveler to be official in churacter and nessary in the interest of our war

effort are found, Custs will imediately request the micrest lilitary In-

tilligence Service Franch Office, or District Crricu, or represintative

thoreof, for certifiction and exception fra censorship attiration.

=g. Civilian Personnel.

(1) Civilian personnel, esployed ty the Mar Departsent of by con-

tractors for the lar Department, will upon arriving at ports of departura or

entry, currerder all personal docurints to Caswrs for censorship eatination.

When classified orficial documonts or doamats claired to be official in

charicter ind necessery in the interest of air war effort aru found, Customs

will immodiately renest the nearest Militar? Intelligence Service branch

Office, or District Caice, or reprisentative tiersof, for crtification and

excaption iros censorship exanination.

3o The attontion of all pursonnel concerned is invited to the follow-

ing:

Do Custons regulations provica that an etinption ira Custons duty for

$100 north of surchandise is grantid niturnirz residonts si the United States:

such excription my, harever, ie.claized.oulg cice in ery 30 doy period. All

items of merciandise acmuired aroza must le declarea to custons officers at

the Port of entry into the United Sites.

Casunications being sent by one individurl to anoner individual,

by an office to in individual, or bi an indiricial to an sifice are

official and must be turnod over to Castors officers for excination.

mil of this nature should be in paclages of official cousications which

are desired to bi exenpted from ermination by Cusions.

the carrying of personil conunications for: other individuals is

specificalls pronibitad by paragraph 8b, H.D., IC 15, 1913, itich is quoted

below:

"Private cominications originsting in, or destined for, a theater

of operaticas will be transmitted only by neans of authorized systons of

cosmunication, such as the immy Fostal Service, apprond telephone, telegraph,

express, cable, or radio systens.

Hey will not under ary circunstances be

dispatched irus a theater of operationg by am seans other than those author-

1zcd.: Persons guilty of using mauthorized seans of comunications to evade

censorship will be disciplined is will those who act as unauthorized essen

gors conveying sich camunications to another°.

do All personal documents takin by Custans tron tilitar; personiel or

civilian personol unployed by the fiar Departuat or by contractors for the

Nas Departuent will be referred by Custons to tha nearest District Postal

Censorship Station or Iraveler Censorship Station for examization and recom-

mandation as to disposition, or till lo acted upon by Custois.

-3-

---

## Page 17

14-00000

(AG 3110l X, Ha BIOlSi, 16 Sepuebir I213, contra)

4o All carindirs will at the tize of issuing orders diructing travel

to or Iras the continental Unita States,

I-ica personnil affucted by thel

. travil srders uf the provizions of this letter.

by contand of lieutenant GenEral DEVERS:

DISTE TPUTIC!:

Each adarussee

(2)

(1)

(1)

G3

ASX

AG Hail

AG Records

(1)

Co, 214h My limys Camunicationa Squadron (1)

H1l1ti57 ittact:e (1)

Traffic Officer, Pr-strick (1)

"Courter IrinsIc Dificer, Prestrick (1)

Lt. Colonel,

Assistant idjutant Ginoral.

---

## Page 18

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

HERE JAFTERS.

BURCEAN IFATER. OF OFERATIONS

UNITED STATES APYY

RPP/KHC/ebe

6G311447*

16 September 1943

SUBJECT:

Clearance Trough Custors on Leaving and

Intering the Uzited States of Official Couriers,

Military Persomel, and Civilian Personnel Under

Jurisdictica of the Var Department lino are

Carrying Classified Vaterial.

1O

: Coumanding Generals:

Eigith Air Force,

• серб,

Iceland Base Carmand.

amanding Cicer Dug it anna enter, suase.

Carrundant,

A sricản Scrool Center.

1.

Letters, this headquarters, dated 24, February 1943, 18 Lay 1943

and 9 July 1943,

file as above,

subject: "Cluarance of irty Officer Couriers!

and Civilian Personal undor Jurisdiction or the far Departuent through

Custons on leaving and Entering the United States" are rescinded.

2. In order to elicinate delay in the clearance through Custras of:

• official couriers, military personal, civilian eployees of the ilar Depart

ment, and civilian ennlorees of contractors for tre far Departient on leavirg

and entering the United States, and to provide a sethod by which easters of

official rilitary rature can be licensed and passid by Custors without ex-

anination, the folloming procedure has been establisied and is ron in effect:

Orficial Couriers.

(1) Military persomel acting in the capacity of a special courier

will bear a letter sizned by or by authority of the Secretary of Har, the

Under Sacritary of far; an Assistant Secretary of War, the Chief of Staff,

the Contanting General of the ing Ground Forces, the Comanding Dineral of

the Arry dir forces, the Commanding Gneral of the Any Service Forces, an

Assistant Chief of Staff of the War Department Generel Staff, the Caiefs of

the supply and adinistrative services, a gentral officer, the coranding

officer of a depot, post, camp, station, or independent comand, the can-

randant of a gureral or special sirvice school, the chief of a tilitary

nission, a nilitary attiche, or a silitary observur, a Courier Transfer Offi-

CET,

a Military Intilüigence (Certifying) OffIcur, or their respective

excutive officers certifying to tho official enpacitz of the courier. This?

lotter will also describe by package or lutter nunvers the exterior covers of

any official documents trat are desired to be exempted trail exarination by

Custons. • (See paragrash (3) bejow)

-1-

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 19

14-00009.

(AG 312.4 iT, Fa 210U5A, 16 Septiber 1943, contia)

(2) Bach package or envelope containing official matter trat is to

be exempted tron urmination will bear on its exterior cover the irscription::

"Officiül United States frey Camunication Scepted fro Censorshl", follord

by the signatire and official title of the Comanding Officer or his vecutive

officer dispatching the docuunts by special courier.

(3) In ordir to estublish a unifora procedure to couply with the

requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) alove, the folloring is subaittid s

guido:

Her Department

HEADQUAPTURS ARMY CROUD. FORCES

Hashington 25, Do C.

312.1

TO:

August 2g. 1243

Subject: To Identify. (Captain John Snith) as an Official Amy Courier.

Collector, U.S. Euresi of Custors, (Port Of Duperture of Entry):

1. 'The suore named person is acting in an official capreity as coirier

for this hendriarters and is carrying tiro peckarus and che litter..

The pack-

ajes are zudressed as follows:

Ne. 1, To the Cormandine General, ilaska De-

cense tuatara, inca the injutine bener, Ner Dapartzant, Mastington, D. 6.;

No. 2, To the Connanding General, Alaska Defense Commind, fron the Carancing

General, iny bound Forces, Fer Departeent ileshington, D.C. Tie. letter is.

addressed to the Corinding Senemi,

äleak? Detense Coczand, fron the Cormand

ing Generzi, ätty Service Porcis, Her Departsent, Yashington, D.C.

Each of the alove ities is further identified by the inscription on

the cover rOilicial United States Comunication to be Elepted fran Censor -

ship", followed by the signature sad titlo of tie respective coumanding

officers or erecutire officers..

For tho Cocanding General:

JOHT: ADAI'S,

Major, Infantry,

Exocutive Officer.

(Li) All other contiunicitions carried balficial couriers will be

surrendered to the Custons orficirs at tri. port of departure or entry into

the United Stites.

then sury otter docuents which ara ofricial. in character

and nucesury in the interest of our nar

effort, Including confidential and

sucret orders are found, Custors mill Imiedistely riquust the nearust 4121-

tary Intriligence Service Branch Office,

or District Office, or representa-

tiro thereof, for certifiestion is to their official naturo and cresption frai

pangarship urasinstion.

so Military Persoinel.

---

## Page 20

14-00000

(AG 31104 8, Hq ETOUS, 16 Sap'inter 1913, costid)

(1) If nilitary personnel arrive it sorts of siparturo or entry

mithout earplying with the provisions of sub-paragraph a (1) and (2) above,

all personel docunents will be surrendered to listons for cnsorship uranin-.

ation. Hen classified oriicial documints or docurers chained by tre

traveler to be official in churacter and Itoessary in the interest of our war

effort are found, histors vill imediatily roquest the sacrist lilitary In

tilligence Service Franch Ofrice, or District Orfici, or representiza

thorol, for certification end escaption fros consorst; carination.

Civilian Parsonnel.

(1) Civilian perronnel, employed by the far Defartment of by con-

tractors for the var Departeent, nill upon arrivirg at jorts of departura or

entry, eurrender all personal docusunts to Castors for censorship eszuination.

official docurts or desmants cliler to be oificial in

charucter and necessary in the interest of cir mr offor ari fourd, custoes.

mill innediately renuest the rearost Williary Intilligerse Service Eranch

'Office, or District Clice, or ripriststairo teriol, ior artificasion and

exemption fros censorship uxarination.

3. Ise attention of all pursonnel concurned is intited to the jollow-

ing:

Custons regulations provide that an exitpion fro. Custons dity for

&100 worth uf nurchandise is granted r-turnire Issiduats of the United States:

Such ception ney; harever, ic clained only orce in zu 30 day perica. All

items of erchantise scuired aroad sist to declared to Custons offiors at

the port of entry into the United Statas.

&. Coraunications being sent by int Iadividual to another individual,

office to an individual, or by 27 ixirical to in office are sot

fricial and must be turned over to bistole officers ior exanination.

mil of this nature should bi in pachages of officint comunicatiors shich

..are desired to bi exempted fron exination by Custons.

The carrying of personal conunications for otter individuals is

specifically pronibited by paragraph 80, HaDo, IC 15, 19-3, which is quoted

"private communications originting in, or destined for, a treater

of operations will be transmittià only by seans of nutcorized systies of

communisstion, such as the stay Fostal Service, apprond teluphone, telegraph,

express, cable, or ridio sysicas.

Buy will got uner ay circumstances be

dispatched frun a theater of operations by any scars otter than those author -

1zed. Persons guilty uf using unauthorizid ieans of conications to evade

consorship will be disciplind as will those who act as unuthorized sesson

gors costeying sch courications to anotber".

do All personal documento taken by Custoas Iron litary personal or

civilian personnel emplujed by the far Departunt or by contractors for the

Nar Departient will be ruferred by Custors to tro rearest District Fostal

Censorship Station or. Traveler Censorship Station lor exalnation and recou-

mendatian as to disposition, or will bu arted upon by Custons.

-30

---

## Page 21

14-00000

(AG 312.4 X, Hy 2T05i, 16 Septabir 1913, contid)

4o hul comenting will at the tire of issuing orders diructing travel

to or pron the continistal Unite States,

1-10ra pursonail afficted is the

travil ordirs ul tir provisions of this letter.

Ly corand of leatanant-Onaral DEVERS:

RICHID P• FISK,

It. Colssel,

A.G.D.,

Asaiotant dijutant Guneral.

DISTRIPUTICK:

Bach adiressce (2)

G2

(1)

(1

AG Mail

(1)

AG Records

(1)

CO, 214th it hinteys Corrunicationa Sonairsa (1)

Military ittacte (1)

Traffic Officer:

Prestrick (1)

Courier Dunsfer Olicer, Prestrick (1)

COnTENTIAL

---

