# 104-10186-10085

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10085

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION REPORT TINFORMATION REPORTA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

¡9lo sinteriel mornino patririasia aberrini ibé Nillcoal Deienne ol 8ãe Uailos Mialra Milhin lse meanine ol eni Restoneço cara Tielo

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTEY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT "'Alberto" (an allas)

DATE DISTR

CSCI-316/00539-65

5 February 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Beckground Use Only

• Do Not Reproduca

DATE OF

INTO.

1964

PLACE & Washington,

C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

. SALUTA 10EO NORMANON SOURE OMOMOS A OPINO E OREANO DE COMION ES IMANE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS ofilcer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 196.

Noadquarters Conments

The following report is one of a series contalning personality

information provive.

by the source

and includes supplesental

information iro.. the records of this Agency.

It is requeste:

that

adcressees taire no action on any o1

the

inc'iviuuals

centioned in the personality reports without

first checring with

this Agency.

1.

"Alberto" is employei by the Direccion General de

Intelliencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI)

and haniles the liaison with airport personnel concerning

the entry and exit oi forcigners who are of interest to

the DGI.

te carries a carnet oi the Cuban Ministry of Interior.

2.

"Alberto" is a Cuban citizen and was born in aböut

1925.

He

1s

¿ive feet seven inches tall, weighs 150 pounds,

and has a meiium build.

"Alberto" has a

white complexion,

blond, wary hair,

a short, thin, blond and greying mustache,

and light colored eyes.l

Neadquarters Conment

1.

The records oi this Agency reveal no identifiable

information on "Alberto."

STATE

: I DIA

I ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

Nora list distribution indicarad by "E".)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

I NAVY

TAIR

NSA

CINCSO E I&NS

compad a

1 OCR

FBI 2

INFORMATION/RERORI

#INFORMATION REPORT

Di

_SA NOS: I| NE(BLIDR

¿LESSRITISIL

E:

SieL

!RUD/AS

WEl (:), CIA.

RID 1

11A190N+

JL$ 2971

NO PROJECT (A:2:UG/1

-CSCI-316/00529-65

COMINATING RELEARVE

:LD: sjik

---

