# 104-10113-10244

## Page 1

104-10113-10244

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

AAC•162Z

..

18 APR 1968

118. Resmozhi. Mergell

Commieslorar el Invilgrasten

and Nataralisat.on

Departmsat al fastica

Vachlagios, D.C.

Abscallons Mr. Erask i. Bastas

Daar Sli:

SUDJICT: Mignal Angel DIAZ Inalgiuo (A 1l 264 049)

DPOB: 14 Fabruasy 1937, Matanzso, Caba

Subject la a contract arployee ol tbla Agoscy engaged

In activitles in tha furthorance of the pational intelligence

«diasion. Ho ls achedaled to traval in the immodiato futare

to Argentina and soreral other Soul American countrios.

For operational sardone eubject will be documented

with a

Pasaport Number 86781 and

1-94, Arrival/Departure Record Card, in the samo of Juan

Hidalgo ELIZONDO. Bomano. The Form 1-94 will be sur-

sendorad al the timo of blo dopartura from the United Statos.

Is la requested sabjoes be lasuad Form 1-512, Rocairy

Document, undos the name of Juan Hidalgo ELIZONDO

Romano to pormit bla sotura to the Unitad Staras, la tbia

connection, thora are enclosed two (2) photographe al sub-

joce.

Travel information will be submitsed prior to bubjact's

doparturo 1rom the United States to parmit control of form

1-94, Assival/Dspartara Record Card. Your Service will

bo caviaed in advanco ol subject's reiura lo the United

Statos.

Ga?.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Tour cooperaton la essa matter to

very maes

appreciased.

slacerely.

Edmund 26. Alepa

fod. Vletor I. Walte

'Daputy Director of Security

(Invos(13at10a8 and Operadional Sapport)

NOT TO GE DISSEMINATCS FUATRER OR EXHIBITED

Enclosure.

TO ANYONZ WITHOUT PETE PEMASSION OF THE

CENTRAL INTEILIGERGE AGENCY.

0s/1/8/LW:on 15 April 1968

OXLAZEALEN

2212

---

