[t04-10186-10182) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

LIGENCE | AGENCY

ae CENTRAL IN

‘This material containe information af he National Defeats cf tie United States witnin the Ecsning of the Eapionse Laws, THe
. 14 USC. Lae 72) and TOA, the Mresamiaisa of Freaiaa Of Whice I Any manter to an unautcrzed persom la prodivited ay law.

CSCI~-2/752.061

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez DATE DISTR. 23 June 1964

. No. pacts 2 RETURN To CIA
Background Use Only
Lecter Do Not Reproduce’
ates
cats OF 1964+
INSO.

PLACE & Washington, D.C.
DAE Aca Nay 1964. FIELD REPORT NO.

Tals 1S UNEVALUATEO INFORMATION, SOUSCE GRADING? ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE,

oan SOURCES” A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cubsn
i: Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The following report is one of a F)

Series containing personality information provided by the
source and includes supplenental information from the

records of this Agency.

1. Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, who uses the pseudonyrs "Nduardo,"
"Casimiro," and "Jose Antonio," is an officer of the
Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI - General Directorate
of Intelligence) stationed in Mexico City, Mexico.

2. RODRIGUEZ, who was born in approximately 1940, is five ;
feet eight inches tall, hag g husky pusid, a reddish
complexion and blond hair.1, 6,7

Headquarters Comments.

1. A usually reliable s: port dated 29 March

° Teee stated that Rogelio RODRIGUEL 1 Lopez is the
third ‘secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.
Source also said that RODRIGUEZ had plans to see
Major Alfonso PRERA, leader of the 13 Noverber Group
in Mexico on 24 March 1962.

2. Ina report dated 14 February 1964 Rogelio RODRIGUEZ
Lopez was reported to be the second secretary of the
Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

rere:

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEY

[state Tota Tamar Trav Tam, Tusa TSE acs TFBI =|

REP_CINCLANT. CINCSO #  IGNS
d by “ED

TICI7LIA
12 iCL REA

201-332665

ae | ORYOLETE PREVIOTS FDIT:ONS.


a

adie source in a docurent dated 4 March 1964
said that © RODRIGUEZ, at the 18 January 1964 Cuban
Enbassy stafi reeting, was given the assignment as Political
Reporting OZficer.

A fairly re

Ia a report dated 26 April 1964 {t was reported that Rogelio
RODRIGUEZ Lops: second secretary of the Cuban Exbassy in

Mexico| City, Ss the pseudonyes "“Chele" and "Gorrint with ‘
his contacts 12 Mexico.

On 28 April 1964 it was reported that Rogelio RODRIGUEZ, a
known Cubs antelligence service officer, left Mexico for
Cuba on 25 april 1964 for a permanent change of. station.

In the 17 May 1964 issue of Hoy it was reported that Rogelio
RODRIGUEZ Lopez, second secretary of the Cuban Embassy in
Mexico City, left Cuba on 16 May 1964 to return to duty in

Mexico,

A fairly reliable source in a report dated 5 June 1964 stated
that Rogelio RODRIGUEZ, second secretary of the Cuban Embassy
in Mexico City, is the son of a Communist Party member and
that he (RODRIGUSZ) previously worked in the Foreign Office
on Mexican matters in the Latin American Political
Department. Source also said that he thought RODRIGUEZ
probably worked for Manuéd) PIXEIRO.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

