# 104-10217-10187

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10217-10187

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSAAICATION

PROCESSING

8

POSED

RADID FOR MODI:A

Chier of station, Alglera

FRDA

008, Rabats COS, Aceras COS, ConeXTys COS, BALAKO

ChieS, ATTICA DIVIeSOn

Rebard Fbones GIBSON

CTiON REQUIRED RETERENGES

ONET QUALITIED

HEADOUANTEES DETE

CAN NOEE DODOSS

ABSTRACT

MICRONES

III snA Bee Para S

1. OUtIVY reports that sabject, to 10 the Fair PlAy fOr Cuba Costalttee (FPCC)

heting Exeutive Secretary, left Otteva, Canada on 13 Septerber for Algerse.

DUll be sorking In Algeria as a journallet for several Borth Aberican and Buropean

пенораретв.

He vill travel to Morocco, thens, Gulnes and Hal1 before retaring to

the vasted States.

2. The falloting to blograpble Inforration on Bubject:

ГРОВ: 13 May 1931, Los Angeles, Celifornta

Oct: Jamallet

3o Subjeet 10 also sotive in the Boclallet Horkers Party, Hontoe Defense

committoe, the Coumittee to Ald the Monroe Defendante, Ilberation Corallice for

AsT1ea and the leersen Carnalet Party.

1. Subject le Executive Becrote: y Of the Iberation Colmittee POT ARTlEB, E

organ1rnt10n watch 10 ustlonride with the ala of balping "Africa Ireedon fIghter!"

and prosoting eatenses of a orizon heritage for Also-inerlosa and Airieras...

Distributions

07181n01 & 1 - 005, Algerte

008,

Rebet

-сОВ,

GONE TREERENCE TO

-003, parado

680 1

164/4

INATIA

L-AE/ 3/Guinea

18AP/3/Ma11

N

RED FI

OFFICE

ARALCI

OFFICE SYMBOL

AF/-/A

AF/1/M

AP/4/Gheng

AF/3

TEW/CI

OFFICE STUBDE

C/AF

CUASSIFICATION

DATE

1 ect 62

DATE

zufe

Martha fo LALTABH

201-3060529 007 1262

DATE TYPED

DATE DESPATOHED

:: 2071066

DISPATCH STREBOL ARCO MUMBER

AAAH 252

MEADOLURTERS FRE MONKEER

202-306052

ORIGINATING

EXT.

7988

COORDINATING

OFFICERS NAME

W. ters trano.

Mr. Kerbe in Draft.

RELEASING

Bronson Iveedy

---

