104-10183-10196|
[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

oe Oo SECRET 8

. DATE__-26. Aug-64——————

REPORT ON DEVELOPMENT OF AN INCOMING SW MESSAGE

z 03
Cau. nodeste]—_________—_ Division o ‘Branch:_MH/SA/SO____—__—
(Field Units Use Pseudo) .
Report on the Development of SW Message # From —AMLAS#/1 (Agent Crypto)
‘Mailed from —. to - =
Postmark —__——_____-_——— Rec'd Lab 26-sug a :

Date Letter
1. It is requested that the Case Officer examine the visible correspondence for ‘content and appedr-

ance, in order to assess its effectiveness as a cover for the SW message-

2. Results of the Techufeal Examination:
nvelope appear to have been opened in transit?_Not_recetved———___—_—_—_

a Did the e

b. Was any evidence of the SW visible prior to development?______f¥o_

3 Technical Comments:______No-S¥_present—.

: 4 Technical Suggestions To Be Relayed to the Agent:.

ia coe
(fee. el Kite mre
Submitted by~

(Field Units Sign in Pseudo)

Photocopies of the letter and envelope and a photocopy oF transcript of the developed ‘SW message

are transmitted herewith.

Form 60-1 (IN) : : ;
Revised Feb. 1963 SECRET

2M


- an THAR ATION

"25 Auguat i

(receiyéd by AMWHIP:
2 Kagust, at

: Dear friend: Carloes - : ob
: Aplesiag ghve ne a:ghft from yous I charod st with{Tareo,) Tove

ee
: Elad to have nevis! of yeu, becauss T have not had any aniwer'to my letter, shies

I know you received. in Partas.
Now, I would Like to ask you to belp solve & problem ~ one“thatta

very isiportant to me, The 16th National Assenbly of Surgeons will te held in -
in which I work at.

Haxiso from 15-21 Novenber. A group of doctors in the departnont/nt the Conandante

Fajardo Hospital have been invited to attend this Asseubly. I should also like to

attend;
tongs ani I realty need to, I have been informally invited by a Hexican surgeon

who visite our hospital two or thres tines « year, but he hasn't cent me passage
(the fare). In- addition, XI don't think it would be very easy for me to get a
viea. If, with the help of your "friends" you could 1) get me invited 2)send me
passage money and 3) send mo @ visa ~ all three via the Mexican limbassy in Cuba,
vo thge I can go.

Well, hope to see you in Mexico in Noverber, so until then,

As soon as you receive-this, write me so that I shall know you have this
letter - or, call ne and said "Yes" of Mi about this matter. vhether 4t can be
solved from there. I can try to ‘arrange things here ~ but there ia no certainty
that I should be able to get a Mexican vies, Besides, I would have to take care

of acca of these “doings” in the Ministry (Cobernacion?), and that's never easy.

o6 abrazo,
obU the Greeting ARTE Vege mae f;
i : : :
PS = Croa(Harsoy Barer Pf oak

Carlos, when you can, pick up a saall package that I send you via your



cousin Ivan tos
Senora Mabel Arango
305 S. W. 9th Terrace, Apt. #2
Miami, Florida
PS. ero eset aages
Iglesias says-that 1t would help a lot to settle the things yout
: both talked sbout 1¢ Ventura care to Cuba for a week or two, There are
a : several itens that he would have to see personally, end talking of then fe
net tha ame as seeing then. : i
: If ho cones, he could return when he wants to that has already
doen decided on here. i
I received Pepin's fare sens time ago.

ob -
Abrazos (Cares)

Upy



._ dnvgtide wa grupy de aed

“maly feet) “qua me “la-consigas Si-es qué con tus amigos resuels

SPANO TH

Queride amigo Carlos

Recibi ‘por via de Iglesias ut regalo tuyo, el, cual compartd ele |
Mucho meSalegre el tener noticias tuyas pies no he tenido aun respuesta a

que si se que recibiste en Paris.

Ahora js-en-que me ita a resolvér ui problema que tiene’ pare :
mabe 1 siguieritet Del 15"a 21 de Noviesbre.se celebrara ea‘
SIéo le XVI ean les Nacional de Cirujanos,

° a o1-Dapartaiefite del Hospital Cate. Fajardo donde yo trabajo nage
#edicds-los' cusles esistiran y. yo tengo gran interes y .ne& cosidad
asistir. Yo-he sido. fivitado inf rialnente'por un cirujario Hejicano que nos
its 2 0 ties veted’al abo, pero ol no we manda pasaje y adenas la: ‘visa no creo sea _—
01) se me invite,
2) me envien pasaje 3).»6 envien la viva, y tado esto atraves dé da Baba jada de Hoxice
on Cuba para asi realisar ni viaje.

Bueno, espero verte on Kejico en Kovieubre asi es que hasta ofp.

Tan pronto recibf esta pscribene para yo suba si Ja recibiste o llanane
por telefono y me dice SI or NO so resuelve porque yo puedo tratar de resolverlo
aqui pero no tengo seguridad por’ ta visa Mejicana y ademas tengo que correr algunoe
tranites en el Ministerio que siexpre no son faciles,

Un abrazo,
lo

P. D. Ae :

Carlitos, cuando puedas pasa 4 recoger un paquetito que te
envie por encargo de tu primo Ivan, y que se halla en la
direceion siguiente:

R Sra. Mabel. Ai

range
305 S, W. 9th Terrace, Apt. #2
Mant, Florida

°.

PD. de
ice Iglesias quo seria de mucha utilidad que Ventura viniese a

pasarse una senana o dos, pues, asi resolveria mucho de lo que
conversaron Uds. dado que existen varios renglones que tendria

el, que verlos parsonalmente, pues, no es lo misno verlos que

hablar de ellos.

Si el viniese podra regresar cuando lo desee, pues, eso y esta

resualto por esta pert,

Racibi pasaje de Pepin hace tiempo.

