# 104-10219-10130

## Page 1

104-10219-10130

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CECTET

Attachaint to lino os 13 Got. 1961 Eou

sir. Jaso R. Hunt, IC/CI to

Chles, F1/DIV: D.

EXTRATIS FREA

6 septestor 1961.

MADRAURA FOR LAB RECORDS

SUBJENT,

HOtIng Nith ADWSIOAL/1

(Consists 01 Contaot Report prepard by Lenllo Raty, C/W/1 - Broden,

COVATINg ILO SLD tO INY YOTE On 28 AUTuEt 1901 and contact at 10.3.10. W1th

Hanhattan I1B. of FBI At 201 B. 69th Btrvet, to osa 115, Balmiat sos rebe over

¿on the PEL Of Agart ALMUSICAl. ... ...

ELEIN IpOlUSos detallA aI doCussIon VItA FBI rapresentatives,

and projarations for actual sooting:

....1.2..... "DurIng the diEOUSEIOn WIth LOUdelA and PARKER (Of 220 FEI),

Perior acted us, eirlowly off the rocord, that va thousat of the operarion.

I sualled thut no had been about subdy to tarminato it then to turned to over

to tha FBI 11 August 1950. He Bald that personally he folt the pena about 1to

valesa. "

"At 2130.p.th. I lOft ISI HQG, ulth Louúrein and Partar, Partas drovo ne

to the lotel, diorgod loutral and use off, and vont out to pick up A/2.

...... Sy first lepresaion of A1 sas that ho vas seminat palo and vaz and

sextous. Lowdials palatad latar that it probably vas due to the fact that as

anà soldon ester ragularly lately. I val litroduced to 1/L a8 MT. Fysan fron-

nOteS feverat agIoy In lashington, veo Mould be taking over the cass sou

that A/1 was going abroad for en extended persoa. Althouga A/l didn't 8ob, I

have little doubt that he kner wino the other foverment aganey une. I told bis

that Is teTO BOITy to hoar about tha drata of hlo nother..... them aftor. a..

abost a charge I asted his taut his plusa varo for traval abrose.

EN EBLA RO VAS LOSTLES TUrEday MOrRing, al ANguEt On BAS It. IRber 912 80X

Copanaagan, exported to arriva thero at 8:45 en sriday, 1 Daptember. In Copen

sagan, Do buO foLny to moat wIth & Mr, BlÚney GLASIER, dn insarICan

ViD IN DATTING RE ALTOCTOT Of tHe ElORnOT Roosenelt Cancer Foundation and te

I0 going to jut up nast of the nonsy for the production of the Illa "Hemlot"

shich A/l expects to melse walle In Dermark. A1, GLASIER und Robert ARSEN (20%

10/1 tha (a118 Movie star) have formed a Ilnascial corporagion to provide tha

money to back the flies. The niticlos of the corporation pro besng drain up 1a

Buitseriana. The flia 10 actually going to ba produced by a sane sauad logeas

Sist Halast the ouns skiix laterna filn, address: Sot. Jorgansallo 10, Copenhages.

ASTAT COMPATTINg VITA GLANIER ENÓ SHOT-HAISEN, A/1 Intenda to go to stockhola

Where bis EIrl-Extend, Yvonna AUERSON, 18 arranging an apartsent for bin. Es

Intendo to renain there intil the notual thee of production of the tila bagdap

1n Horaber, or ot the latest, carly December.

'As states that IVOre ARNEREON 18 DOU VOrKiNg in the suedled forelega

Malatty st a classisod job denlias vita the cana as suedes uho bara been treypod

Lindin

---

## Page 2

14-00000

att. to DC/CI

Mano to C/11/D

Ata. 13 00r. 62

(Continuation of

Extracts)

In fast farmany, exo as the stipustions of the los in tast she bava so close

association vith forolgers; and; as a resull, vell hivo to quit bor job vhen ba

arTives in stochola, Le rolinterred tint he rnt os able to mat adultional

asterial for a roport for the farlete by elicitiaz fron tvonna the datallo of her

MaasiPled Evilan job. I andod hia whether he could elicit this inicration

Fraa bor: withous revealing an undus: laterast. Ba:cald,

"yes, It vould ba ko:

problem, the tallo no everytilag." I esde no cossent about not clearing tale

lord of sopori for passage to the forloto, preferring to docide thet question

varn and 19 to got the Into nation Iron tronna. I anced his da 15 ho latendod

tO SOA hIO SOMAr pArtUArO IN DADOCO MEN hO RSTIVad In Breden. He Aald

ho did not, h1o estatro vita babco hos all bees cottiod turough sio lavyar 1n

Buode and hs 1s entirely out of it sou. Ho bud bean ablo to obtass 85, 400 soa

the fini, walch mus anourted only to a paymant for the tras

ho had lovested su the company. I asted hiu hou his financial status vas sou, and

ho said it vas good. (Loudrin had said that the FBI did not consider tha caso

vostà tha espasso of financing lus on another tIlD abroad. Mita regara to 4le

rolationshiD iità us abroad, I save his the contact pion cabled by ta Copanbagos

Station, uhles to troto dova and prositad to unboralso and than dastray too sotos.

I told hin this mat sa roped to do vita the operatlos unilo ha vas absona vas

to pervato nons contiats vith tha RIS, other:than in BerlIn sud asplalcod to

his that me thought ta had a good chanca to di this because of Muo presente intr

natsonal: situat10r Th0 bli' noblem 18 one of comfantion du th..000.

gotting the to come out and nata a sceting vith 'hia. I explanad that since

the teach of hia nother, the couno plau tisat they had for uriting to hia vas

amuptod and that thla lu 1ttels vorld bo curricient ground for tín seardog

a renered contact. with tuen.. In sddition.to: this; ve alscussod the fact that:

stay ut111: oned his money fur the last reporta ha tax turnod in and the foot

tHAt DE VEE DON ASTODA POT & LONZ PATION OI LISa did COnCOIVaDly coUlA ba Ot

sabotantia ues to them. ....

"I nabed hia 11 ho bad brought en additional royorto to the seeting,

thias voula bavo to ba aloared for passaga to the soviete. Ho sasa, "no",

that with the death of his nuther and the probles of settilos ker estato, be bad

hua very Isttlo tima to do southing elsa. I tons vort uith him ovur the repost

that De baS FreTOUalY BIVOn tEA FBI OS ENO MARITY BAS MINCISIL CABO, 121E

report bad couse frOz MIChael KrEpIA SUlAI, addrons" 2248 Ilgabury Avenue,

last Los AngALos, Callforals, uno 18 presently 8 physica teacher at los Angeles

Stats Unfversity.

SUMAN bad knot MARITY quite vell 1n Tolyo In 1953-195%

and had corresponded with biz a great deal sinco tbat time. Ise regort 18 attached

1EcuaB10n 01 m10 roport concludod sul tha businass oi the neetIng, and 1

hoak hands again with A/1, Winhed his good lunt on bia trip, und ha deperte

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SEC.

COPY

"Is to manalle, l've turnod up as interesting plece of Inforsation unica

could to valuablo so a report. Hovever, instead of uriting the final roport,

¿'al cave you all the detaila bereto.

Ils 18 bacausa 1t may not be possible

to ma the data fron s sacurity standpolat and it night save an tims to cuect

that asgact. cirl firet: ls satertal coss' all irus A ningle ecurce, sy close

foless, A.C. 5047.

BUMAN ResTad WIth ABA: at: Far Bast Feadquartara: as a crypto clast during 1953-54.

DUrINg thAt thEO DO DeCENS ClOsElY ssOCIaTEd VItA BATION E. ITICisti and

W122SEN HIRTTE, espOstaLY VIEh MARIDI so vas rather e goOd slend of ble.

You till recall that MARTIN and MIllI, Latsr employed us slatisticlana vita

ISA, Red to tho Bosset Unton 10 Juna al 1900 and su Septembar of 1960 errared

In Hoscon to denorns the U.S. A constierable saunt of yuallelty attended their

desertios. SEAl say recentiy contactad ty old and lutestioned amoral trasa by

thels agents regarding his inoslodge of Marill and tillan la has confidad to a

severed interasting fasts rogarding theer intervieus. 01u ablttod to his that

thair sain satorost in contuming to Issustigato the anso vas to uncover possible

contarts vita ta sovieta or others in toa U.l. belors they fled to ausala.

5503

have been tablo to deterine snather os not the ssa had paresa speenta te

Borset ageate in the U.B. shile they vero still esployed by 15A and do not lect

estlyere 0r hou they sangod for taslo escapa sran the U.8: other then

that they sade a andestine trio to testco turtus the vinter of 1959 at sarca

Bero, they had to poor that either of the man vere asturly comuuniat.."

5Y2R15929 01 bONEsiA as charged is tha press. dil explained to EUNI

that they balloved Mitchild to hava beca srimarily Luvalved and that MAPsiDi had

ten tram aloug vith him because of his cloes assodistion end farhaps biscio

1A11. S0S. tODÒ & 815108 Of LOtTESA MiCE EULAN Lad LUCerOd IS MARTIN BEA

eventually retunisi. than after study.

"Iate Intomation, althod linited, has certain talloations tales 00slA

¿ Os interast to the. BoN1et3..... putloUlarly the Etatus, 0f tha currenI

mastlestion and that has boon uncovered and unet 1s tt1ll unamiainod in t

caso."

*SEGRET

1262243

---

