# 104-10186-10184

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10184

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION

EPO

INFORM

ONARERORE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Die mAlerAl cODaIna loformaLon alecURE tO MollunAl Delenna or lDe UnleAd Blatas Miebla the meanine of lDA LaploDaRo Lame TIL

A DSC sNa tAs snd toe, che unanixon or perMallon of unica in any mandor lo an unauthoried person la probibitia by lal

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUJECT EUlOgIO PONS (allas. "ElOy")

REPORT NO. CS CI-316/00695-65

DATE DISTR.

11 February 1965

1

; RETURN TO CIA

NO. PAGES

Background Use On REFERENcES

Do Not Reproduce

CS-311/00115-64

(page 8):

8 July 1968

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

Washington. D. C.

PLACE 8

DATE ACQ. December 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

MIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from, the

records of this Agency.

It Is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the cersonality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1.

Eulogio PONS, alias "Eloy," is the administrative chlef

of the Departmento

Department - LN) of the Direccion General

de Deracion General a tell generation

-(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

.. PONS

inches tall

and weighs about 145 pounds.

Sep:ima, Esquina 60, Apto 2, Miramar, Habana, Cuba.1

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on Eulogio PONS.

5

4

SECRE

NO

FOREIGN DISSEX

опад.

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

REP

• CINCLAN!

(Noto: Fiold distribution indicoted by "#".)

NAVY

CINESO

I AIR

I&NS

INSA

I MXX

I OCR

TFBI 2

INFORMATION REPOR

INFORMANO NAREPORT

AH/ SA/ EOB.

WE/ SiR

CIHA

TE CANADAIN!

WH/ SA/MQB

AH/SA'R

WE MADR!

ILLE BRITISHUL

75-3

WH/SA• CI

FUNIVE

RID'AN

_LX 2290

UFGA 19020(9Dec67)

NO PROJECT (AMMUG'1)

CSC1-316/00695-G

TORALS SHI: SA 8

(1), HE 1 (2): CIA, RID 1

11A1s0N*

19-5-1

ORSOLATE PREVIOCS RONIONS

S1/R9g)

ORE NO.

• +1

1

130.

4IBR

---

