# 104-10183-10284

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10183-10284)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING ANd RECORD SHEET

IASTHUCHIONS

PRIOR IQ FILING

Fiil in Sect

2 un back

Dr-ruch back flap

and'forward lo

Dastrur trant cover sheel,

unless it securis

delicin laken os commenis sequir-

ing preservation

_TO. ACTION BRANCH

It die no and lille shown are not proper.

insert proper lile no below and forward

dicument lo HID ANt je

FROM:

ROER

AC LUE

TO

ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I UA RACE IF AFAUOPRIATE

CORRENTE

DATE

TO

ROOM

NO

SHEAS

610X PK

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

HAiD ChanY

iceui.

4787

1

15

201-0749651

pris, st

THALE

RIQUIST

•:...

0100

Great

CCOA

~ 7763

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH Co

Chlef, Spectal Affairs Staff

1500 0U4195 0659

isone

chier of station, or ara

SUBMIT

TYPIC/AUDESK ANHUG

O Forwardins of Tapes

ACTION EARLO RUTRUNOES

Ref: OTTA 1595

ol

forwarded herewith, from [SHABOVEn are 22 reels

Of LANGOSCH's interrogation of Subject reference while la

transcript of these interrogations roul

ppreciated by the Ottawa Statiou and the SHABOVES. D

DOC. 1r.?0. SER.

JULY

Mics: 122:22.

H6-429496443

ANSB

23 X

Attachment: 22 reels

distribution:

0r1g& 1 - C/SAS w/att h/v

3 - C/HE w/o att

19-6-10213

201-0749651

CAOSS RETTY NOT TO

i santa steal do severa

OCUA 7703°

DA?t

1 Kay 196-

---

## Page 3

14.00000.. .

i....

!.

DEBRITIES O: .11N0-1

30 april 19ia

SÜJUIET: ducuseats sroughi dui by daal anú ils Caronis Concerning

Tica.

ocuseat i

29

Lo Ine 1007 In Mici LliGOSCi spoil to sacal was vired los tha

can with tho

occation lly a messer or refund a

Wo:1d eniér the rood ind usually at tis tine limon: rould fire a

briel stay in aMelial os pointo di interudio attache are thread

parts of the incrious uses noid suprod up du inlisi.

2. Las

i sub do tin Gane dialiense curios of tha

tapes de bade so t at the dany coulù arovide lus dairies a coija

3a2 and tint, in nuition, personalitiasy iniorsasion concerning

TuIS officars sould be proviced to theila

HOT SUITABLE FOR KICRONIM

CS COPY

ATT TO 0004-7763

201-0749651

8/80

---

## Page 4

14-00000

!.

...

D573-17-34

2::221S

AN CRONDA

Biludhar BoirigeaLahera

141.0749651

I INTRODUETIOD

ïer ricfly de luve cone over lis :lotory froi ila sciuol

days un so tia prosent bino mi ho live cire ovor in coicral

vilint dochschta 10 li 3 brought, wid Wirt :15 hors in Irtozziiere

15, und wiat le 8r019 th i lioulu a pear to to rost significart

to the aresert tino . I un juino to co over t:1s frirly

rastaly in Enelles so that jon, v11l be cetius to dato wati:

ne. Une probica le riccà 13 thit le monto to no toithe i.s.

He sis relatives tiera ardle i1o incention wies to vore 15

tie states in intiors I1':0 t:i3, socanse lie icels tils is

were he sill de most utcful, "is ichior in-lui ari vise ero

cotà 1n Cuis ard ic 1s vorricd riout lis jettine l'or out.

Ho lis civen de lin truo muo wilch 15 tint w.icii joù invo

"Ircidy contionch to ecotic pseudonyn wich to used just

10s ,200:0nt purposes to cover tie tria dutcide. ce «ico

e couplo of jous sid tion ie desin sortin: vati tie c6t.

lire

Intista wuverent aid i15 was in tili i suchoni vagatie liotk

of zurig odrors. le lis to coinit übts of saocture insice

¡¿vura cad aiso to do arcrocurda war: 195 lu 120 do vas

, cronod in. sich activitics lie ins

taica priconer 1r. 1957

SECi

2

---

## Page 5

185%

-

2 -

1!

1:15 was aider a fire-cibit, du suo in a sara rati anothes

fellos, tho polico cars crie un, tie; exclunged 3tots Sit

they were captured. lie was beaten lin and stujed in tho

... Castitito patteray vile:: 18 a jail in irvar, vei lo his

kept in ta11 untsa Fabruary 2958 vian le tos out. he=so

got out of

¡natoz lo is a real Guinpio sort of sellow. je did enace

there 18, fire-fights, during the

Government fell in inpuary 1959, tie culumn with wilc: ie las

Ightino jes in santase de Guba Here went to invers with

cot trere de waa assiaredso dio irenticatur gueror el divide:

at that tize has headed by ildo veros Sorafis, a His

particular sob in tils investlu tin: departuent vas to errauer

investigations of 1llejcl candling, tat is, cablin; wiich

viao done outsido of the caïares ani tie cooling touses.

He stajed ir that 100 until coverderos 1959 wien ho was

transferred to the l8th. precirct, a police station. there

ho was the second chiof, and la stajed tiere afri ine srajed

unt11 January'of 1962, it that time ho was trusterred to

üutional rolice reaiquarters but te did not tve anjioefue

assignsent. je was the stard-by officer nad no otayci sueze

without having any sacci lo duties. Mo juit signid the raster

In the sorring and took off, lintil tre. end ef 1961 at wiich

tine he vas transferred to a police battalIon, are Ha

3

---

## Page 6

14-00000

.

- 3-

rasalned viti tha police batallios untilatesteriver os 1961.

it this tine ho has transferred to tie Castillla do coro

to study. Tils has e basic stidy and did not cive astrina to

do with intelligence lori. l'e was in school there until

until, Deceader of 1962 when to sot hollday loars. to decided

that he did not want to stey in lie iray anysore inance Tris

police work was still an assigent while de bas in the tray.

le hid already begin to have doüuts about continuing to kork

for the Castro overment and wäs tririsins in terris of

cottino out. then le resigned fro: the immy ile ragers were

bette late

not processed right away, tair he aid rot resort

end he was

reported for being away witrout leave. Decause of this

difficulty, he kad sue difficulty setting sore and de vas

out of work until, 2asa 2962g in he sut e 50b in tie

•inistry of ixterior Comerce, ine purticulir sociion in.

Wich he worsed had to do with the Irrortation of velidese

and He renained there until iugust as 1963, it He had a

PEST

friend naned Saul'

Gonnalez wio vas an intelligence orficer

and through this friend re got a job in Intelligence. This

particular friend 1s either the Chief or the 2a0g Crier of

what tiey call trepilleçal section - this 19 a section which

specializes in training agents for assignments abroad,

particularly In latin incrica. ven our irioro vere began

vorcino in Intelligerce he vas agsined to tre Salvadoran!

IcexicTat is the aroa cout wien to kinsel? cows rost

irom his own persoral kro:icare. rais I:telli

ence service

loose lergueze

but is properly irom as birecian General

---

## Page 7

-

¿on tila section 1s engujed in lei ls call thosepressive"

inteill¿ence operations l= otie= coràs, 1t 1s 6= organization

wilch exists for the purçose of collecting intolligerco in

otter coustrles. It 18 distinct ¿ua tie 2.5.50, the Department

of State Security, wilch 16 a Counsor Intelliience group, Tire

two of ties co.

coplotaly separated but bot; follience

organ sationa die to move rost cout tip on ougos to

intelligence directorato, of which anuel no, iner vell

AKA H

I coked sure güestions to wiich I

already inew the answers and he siso inoris

tie anchors, so

I am not Guino to 50 o÷er trea, bacalise tiey are rot so

inportant as -

Li are of us dust questsons.

I

would say now seat he does know at re 1s tall acaout,

Tris' 1s not all invention.

He recandly made s trip to

lexico, sit he sade tie trip to terico in order to contact

a Comunist Perty grous wich was cosine iron salvador.

Icese were people with Vion lie dad contact.

Trey did not

appear for the sectinas.

tie nectirs did not take place.

¡e was in ¡exico iT0s die luti, de lurca lintil tre 23rà. of

jarch ard during that the imes dis or opcrational

reetines did not taie 2ico, he da agot sore soonde of Interest

Isio people fros des dicarauajore of lior ho it ir tho

Cutar, Brbassy in ¿exico and tie other loia lie act in a

private rouse wille in doxico. in toxicope inu's Wiio tic

el intelligesco people are, milone is tic Cuter, concul Alfredo

tiravel.

iie 1s called the Chies di the Contre, fürt is his

t1t1o büt ho 10 actualli, lie inscallioco crios,

11;

'ca

---

## Page 8

14-00000

donate winter.

:.

-5.

•Or'at least, be vas until the liti, or insil at wilch tine

a Palacesent has sent to lexico to tire over sii Tila

cello.e nate 1e caruel Voça.

an Intellicence officer and anothis one is ichallo. (I'alcht

day that soze of tiese neses are fanillis to die. ¿e also

consunications are concerned he says tiat they ave been

using costly accosocation addressea and secrat writing.

sajo tals hno not been too suc-ecoful, novever, because the

'-dereloper dont ori so, they det gio lottor and tiresco to

dovelo, it and trej cart road li. Shoy also use radsofand

tiey are using e two-way radio wich is quite interestini.

Some of this radio is used for, luts say"noral"

rarisuissions

baci, and forth, partieularly in the case ile verenola.

Some of the radios which are lssued ure really only for

energercy use, people are not supposed to use thea excent in

dire cuergencies suci. as an attuci on Cua. Tilj corally

are supposed to use Sail!!!.

O: jio salà a cousie of 0t1:0%

t: 1nis, 0f wilch I die rot tee note bujare of iniggest to

a11 of us, los examole, on arrangents or tale li ther

want to send soreone oùt on in intelligeice a:siorent ind

the asaignert 1s ono to a lutia iberican country Marc tries

¿ send most people) tris nuld be taen up do Finlato, reades

end, toro valãds 1s die "mistor of die Incurior sit do

ras another ret he 1s the calci, overall crior

,of intelligence

6

---

## Page 9

- 6 -

Concent,

¡orally this hould also do taken un with clich Curtro and.

We ordere woulá de larucò and auscorta vollo de i1: en to

Lan to so out. now

, ti.1s 15 MiGTO

to; are seroing sore-

ore olit on a sore or los. gerarent assi mont under

as locatio cover. Is loneyer dog wait so seid du dogs out

Suca as hinachi on tipia to toxico, or e stort 2.3.%.

they just say five us a nssport int auch and such a nego

Sia sudasued land, to dias or trill about if is Fo-

situation 1s a liitle cliferent wiere a ussport or visa 13

to be secured for travel to one of tie "sociolist" countries.

¿here this has to bo luld on tirouch the Cuban Salesay In

that country, - For example

, to says that in Cred: 'fore is

a Czech Intelligince Officer in taiarioay grasgul sean

othe Cuban tabassy.

id is the foy who ducides 1i tro vis

will be cranted, ster In ordor pril; to establis. ins 01.3

terrace

bora-fic nis on cood faith jo irouigit lis tiere eccurants

frou tre files so thi the could slow ti tie vas not

inventing, ard tre docuarnia vile: die irought out, in jeneral,

are these tiut I will io over right row. ic üroüit out sone

da?

passports, he says

trede cre deno falsicica cubar passporti,

th-t is, trey are falsified in two

those ties are issucc

in other tran a trie ruse inù sons legitinate cos gots

wich have been scured in various iitin erican countries.

cidalae

Te also brought out some sodilas, luich are idertiry cocuscilts,;

wilch vere issed for trainees who care to Gübe for trairins.

Parenthetically, I nigit rontion ore tiin; Or Wilch I did rot

case a note wiich is quito Irterestinallait où tie trairees

Iy ior rierilla

training ind then will jo doc: and ex-ort tre revolution

7

---

## Page 10

4-00000

- 7-

Il'ce hit would sciect those that licy thought rost useful

for intelligerco purposea and ilese louid he separuica fro:

tie group and scula be truired for intoi Icence sissions

without the knowledgo of the ot: ora and wii:out the imoilodge

of the Co: aunist rurty wilor sconsored lie sording of trie

STALE DELINENTS

people to Cuba," se also brougst out one toxicin passport

which 10 of interest in thit this vas tri secured througa

a cortact of tre Coisurist Party direro, so d6 tro Comunist

zenty. 1n El Salvador, srù

It was sert to Cuon to ie usod in

covering the travel a scienolo suit tiey alad siant to sond

10 aó did not hive dochaento, ds io nouldharo so travol in

a storailty odder tian ica dia, it los a salvidorin posa-

ort wich belonged to a calvadorao ico actually ricà to

we oin rovue because it 1s quite interesting, showing exactly

con tudy run a caseo do culi, altocoti coyo kruugit out flirae

of tosses, is seballe ina irvant out a snoreich

report of tio 3.h.i, Wich is a tational Liveration Fort in

incarajia, le aro brought our diotographic copies of

cortain cocumeris wiich he triris are of purticulir interest

two - because tre; hive Irter-collations

Ate in cinoring

and de-cipherins, end tieso inter-collations ase, no sada, rot

done by des's officers lice klifell iut are done a. a speles

section wilch is called the certrai Cipher cection.,

Mout

agents

[

8

---

## Page 11

TOD

SECHET

Dio Guate nasallo sou one of tieso this in rexico very

recentlaon ila trio tiera and die $'110i vas irraced

120 More to cat to Guitarialao mermons fee joncuren eronta

Tio Paramenion arcatsd farce &

and hairs two More wo are in savador butto ces not

lies are licaramiena nio urc in ¿exico.

sent who is now in civad homes furatito corte forinco wio

are now 15 prison in Santa Losingo end sin no one froa

We to now

but iron what I have told jo: i thiric jou. can soo ti

samrotty much wist tie situation is.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

!.

...

Simmer! i'

Vindiair Scoricuez

1 573-77-34

#2

PRICEDiRE

that I an doin; hero is coin; over thiere tilnos and tryiro

to sort ties out in different envelopes so wo cur let baci

to trea wienever lia necd then baiore ticy are stucis away 133

tro file, in I on cult it, I s sorting ttis out tato

peoplo lio aro itali ifficers as distinct fron people sio

are iconta worzine outside mies de creepion.

01 the start

officers.

Of tic.Gti

"I Officoro covered so lar ve lave ono

[brahINVILA

Wtose rame 13 Ivazore-welle. Dis mur 15 Iocaica In Prague,

Caccinoslovacia in the Cuban jatassy and our friend hero,

Rodriquez was zivor & lotter of introduction to lin by

another Hoadquarters Stulf Officer. The Staff Orficer st

readquarters who prepared the letter 1s better roin under

tre pocudonya Agusto, la 19 also roferred to as Gain, w1ch

agit or alert rot be his orc neue, vut lie 1s olter relorrec

to is that rice in dio lindatri of torein reactions mincer),

war 1s a deputy to the lead of tic service, 1r other words,

he is ruber tuo men in the ücrire and he replaces tie.

Tira stuffer son se luve coverou lit to ti0 resent ile v

DAMATO VIROL'EI

to tritornal iscudonya Serioota I will toll jol a titilo

tit toro about tis later in comicction viti one or tic

scrat

L

10

.

---

## Page 13

14,00000,

- 2=

agenta.l saw fie arents whos lie have coverei, sa inva coverad

incicontally to tlose people vio case to Cuba iron othor

countrics for giorilla trairing. of these peoplo sone are

solectod to bo acorta, bu We are just tains ties as ve eat

then to joey tilngs in order, Buiervise va would do oopire

aruund lito crissioners. Of tove lão case for training

I lavo rude a list of rauco. 1 bon't jo over ill the reces

because they would not zuen too such ot tilo stage, exorni

tout Wint I huvo done here has bech to rote the nine, the

nationalityprietor or not de does now then pors-nally.

The ones wio not orly received cuerilla training but ito

aro açonto are the ones, of course, lie are zost Interested in,

anà they are firat of all a nor those last nuno is sOSh.

This non 1s a l'onduran Citisen and probably 1s In Costa

Rica at to present time. It 1s the optrion of TIcdiair.

Roiriques here that sosa was deported fros l'ordurasjard ticy

rofor to his cuce as tie

"International Case" occause ovury-

boûy in the fenlly seers to bave different Citirenship.

lo travelled with his facily, and Tho Grandsother lad one

was protty well searc un as far co"tant is concommod.

Lie follow sosa vas Elves trainino no in igont, ura lis

ind

training coveroù tie use of radio, tie use of cocos aciniers

and tie use oi socret writins die Me les siren in

accomication cadraos. ion t'15 san, es I rentionca before,

rad a caso orficer ard I llatod the case olicer or tio

staffer up score.

I sili sivo jou the rest of the data on

to staffor row.

---

## Page 14

14-00000

"y

-3 - 28

.:..

. 1.

Tie steffers nono 1s tullo idrasoo Kascas with tle

proudorya Sorglo, und ilialair too irin tai dur sure jears.

de deccribes hi; es icing alous 5' 5", lusty, sonerlies

called the lawain because lie 18 & light caloured soisito..

Is addition to the training of any igent, lie Case Giscer.

hicelf kas received sillur training, tart 10, tralrins in

secret writing, coles, deciphers ard radio.

ic also Faceived

training in paracrute school, die case officor. Tre Case

Officer was trained for un assigment in Contral Morica

but ce 10 still 1n Giba." are next case wa livo wiles is

of particular interest iecause tie sun is trainca as an

iip.r, 80440

agent 1s on a follch race. logay viaturá ailton is &

Salvadoran citizen and lis faníly scens to le mixed up too

because lis fatier, nou docessed, kus a ünitud stutes citizen

and threo of hlu brotero are lnited states Cltluous, Gro of

thica 18 said to nave cought on ôtiraia. io pico ics ü cister

who is a renican Citizen lud W.0 nol: is

stuajiro in Cuba. dus iricno hore renoire dids case very

vell bocauso ho Linscli wus tie Case UiiIcor ior Dalton and

ic cave Dalton six turdred dollars to bug i radio receiver.

ast lialton, instead of cuyier dle radio rocolvor, trois a

little trie for lincols, mad llved Mei, and soont tül soney

se te ras revor come on tha 215, Hocver, so vas firer

frequenedes wrich re soula use for radio tranemission, und He

was supposcà to send on tie second corda; of cacli Monta.

The frequencics on which ie des surposed to computicate

wese filzed and then tie bita of cila vere rolled lin sad

püt 1n & fulse heel an lis 3'00f is a concoulroit cerice.

L

12

---

## Page 15

14-00000,

Pal ta 196

- 4-

jor The accompiation address for

Parnel

De'GADillo

cavelono end there lo en envelope in the 11le viica helieri

brought with kin for this cose, sious a retur ediress, And

¿J. fodriguoz kere says that tie retum address in to case

mares ary difference uccause they slajo

at ail so that it cant bo tracee bucko don This Is alout as

for as wo huve cotten. Coriously iy interest 1= cases 11:0

ads, Ilve cases, 1a cunsiderablo because there airst be a

possibility of duing sonctling about t'ose ico are still

15 place, oo lien I ira, 1t up cere tudey I an cuts, to cuve

to do a little work io try to get these thiros accurit to

tre attention of the proper acople. sur difficulty in

procodirs, of course, is these trinis are so alice, us, tint

Is I try to just pull out the live onco ve are ccino to lare

quite a bit of confusion. I think tie best thin- is to

sort tron once end for all as i bet trouch it aè tion I

will always be able to set baci to tie probez thing, explorer

in a little wore depth.

}

---

## Page 16

4-00000

readinar, Fedricics

1573-17-34

isuall; i thirs ba wont over thig jesterday)n en there 1s

cos body In dia Victier for jreat tainino as an Inicilijorce

¡gest or niefier io 19-10. CubA-lor truinino is a pucrile

fighter, in womi ic ives on lestla; Cuba in: pescorts - oüe

of wilc! wouli de a Cuban pascort Intenaci to cet hii orly

as far us Pragie cha tro otlicr of wich ia could use for

¡do travel fra frague badis to lide our country. To mde

Elven de diese doga, passo: to lI die sor iet arto the

matter of how is ves de lad tiez, and ko explaration is this,

that tiese tira people did leave Cuba usir, their 01n

legitiate passurto, ad The reason they used tleir

legitimate passports in the threc cases kas sinly that there

wes not tiza ¿o= the Intoliljence Cervice tiere to ret

trese tree pass orts, wilc:. ve have in hard, ready with: tie

proper cadies. "non they. Incuo a passiort to cover a son's

Waved, tidy us sta da tie bada pages of die maassors

o cacie süch as intic ilrport, irince witi tre cutes tit

would correspose vith a period duriro vici be nctually ves

1n Cuba, Dies sajoct lie countrico, the osches iich tiey

•'corinty rouid or sould not invo to buve a vica

for tro

country.

SECACT

14

---

## Page 17

14-00000

- 2 -

¿or exciplo. nost latin incricino could do to irince bitrout

dory visa so

ao thor. tacy do not ivo to duplicate or forge a are: cli visa.

ill tic; lure to do 1r to but in the Groie 20r arrival In

tiat do tot requiro visca ena drey set these pente ia tro

back of tre passporta so, the individual.

resins tries. In

Eurone during the tiso lie sas rcally unceracro c1s träining

and In troso particular instances viarano has cotton thece

passyorts they-were-pansports interded to be used but not

actually used becauce ticre tao no time. Souct-ing elso

which 1s guito interesting to you as well as to =e is that

trose Cuban passports with the fake migure minder save

Evo stase digita ji this tarantiore are nil alstricdinital

¿ sezoa, falalfied, all inise. Ilo five figuro rusher stanged

Ilke this, ho says, are all fülso. In other oris tre

Intellionco Sorvice tiere uses tils tyze of stre?, always ir'i

just five digits

on passports, inother thirü wilch. 15 Intorest155,tist

ve lavo clorifiod toro today, do tint dio sero idica 10

uscd in tho 2a3port 131 false nure

a naña trip. It is not a ratico of permanort recri so 12

Po were to da back to cuba to volido not use dies nose icezn.

Ple talied 'äbout the tupe of pseudonym which 1s arsienca to

tho peraon foztnetaroo during tie tine surt he is unicE-

cuing 110 trainire in Cuba, sositiine cos lutoly itricrant.

Test 18 his percanent pso:dorya.

15

---

## Page 18

4-00000

.

:0n1? 25, 1061

secar

- 3-

If to individual siould rotur to Cuba at a later dato ie

would use precisely tho sine ana :eird beforo. This vas

C'e:

a attor, Macizir tello us, of sone discussion, ¿ecauso, 91

vies troy started out, thay sortines ind nsained a different

pseudony' for trainine pruboãcs to a fellor, but on 11a carat

trip into Cuba, leto suy for puccilli kasforo trainins, ho.

wad Given a pseudonga, John idolind tion no nudo tito secord

trip and they sou given him anotrer aseudony.. This posed

come complications because, when this baopenod, troy would

revo swo sosdrato files on the sara individual.

ita: co tic

tad a sootin; and they docided tist, in the future, they would

always neop the sane training escudonyi.

I of the shes we

savo covered toda;, thiero 18 only oro of particular interest.

Tra roat aro trainces and ne vill det all of tlose to ctior

at one tiro. LEce ore of jarticuiar intorost in thie

CESC

Of a forlon aão las ore uf tie cost in corni

Iné spands: dunir, coldedo Haunar ao conculos corono.

sh1s in 1s ar Intelligónco dont, He is a :icaran by

nationality. He presently is back in dicamzua

Bat 1o tses

tre 'founration aireso of ISBEL

vidages sue,

/ Podr1,03, (stops here)

¡articular caso, Dtharinto would al-aja write to this

accoipdation address and then tist iciter vould befallod

to cuba Intellisonco, joy This is tie on'y suc case tiat

vie tuve covered to-dar. l'one bre other ting d5 of sore

interest is that everytimo thero is a reguest such as that

which kas in shis envolode addrenced to's Doctor for

International Control, on the strtioner; of tie

institutenor.

16

---

## Page 19

14-00000

Tulato anù to unior-sido the nont prevalice sáci tios

call dar fros the intial louterug it indicutos sint tiero

10 en Intolligerco Interest 1n ti0 Sure corall", its o

Ciban mitiout any contection vich the intclllicaco venting

to cot a vacciration for travolai He loula favo to co to

tie police station and he would cot ly on police stationary.

Eut wien it 1s arrangeù by sill tito is arrunced, by

Intollionco, and in a requeat tan st ening that the

request for vaccination on Bioti stationary Aliero are a

couple offe

ti ino t'ut are interestirr de brought viti nice.

I paciage of caules wiich hnd becr. sort to tre Cuban

Intelligence Officer 1r exico fros readnuarters, or froz the

.: 1.8 so 19

interestirs beccuse tro: dcal vith tle re-sctivation of i

Invade on an accolation deross in incomis

arocisely the Laudúrir Wilca 13 usod Dy this Icllos 111010

Itsarinto, tie suue collo: thit I contioned verore. In

consenting on tris tila 1s very interesting) :1:d1a1r

tella no thut the alcrature on icadquarters cubles, Reilo,

Vici: 15 tie reo for icul in Grinish roully does rot ican

arythin; excest inat 1t cones fron Intol icuiquarters, It is

•not the noeudorya of a person, However tie othur nice on tho

cable, iulollo, 1o the needorm used fos the intelligence

dEAr

7:0':l

will

le undel ding recertly

arrived.

17

---

## Page 20

14-00000

-5.

willinn

How vega lo thinks will probibi: iso a cliterant purudongi

La, Given a pscudonya. "He 3a

sayo tit tara uoed to tic .t!:c

aseudonya of carcod but te believes thit, with tis ow

departuro fros Cuben intolilierce, that le ill probebly

clange it now.

Soruti ing else tora hale: 1s of Interest 15

idadoreel

Lis lotter us broudit froz t'e file, dated 15th. of :arc.,

1963 and ta la addrossed to l'ImPoso as Ena Décnuce 10.10

vest

for dia ard Tula caro eroz ono or the

sections in the Intelligence orcarization. It ils the tyled

nure loresco wilch is probably the aucidunyn for tret te

section cilof, Apa on tlic otter side it las thie mane se tre

dost: officor for saivadorar infairs, ir sseudonon, lio received

--

in intercoting shout this 1s une 16 to foyer cheer

Incacution us or ort of the revollition, de acung liar, citorin

talian; with the Salvadorens cuot to econo:do receasasios

w:1ci: they lato, to sturt ante insurrection In their

country, "to huvo cotinuted tint our art of tie ald alcula

be twenty-five toucund dollars approximatoly.

And la 1:13 u.it

easton in red ini an the handoratie of sello taels,

aro some questions, and he sage "Sce wint glars troy lure"

"hore do tey thin's they will buy the ara" - "'Lit silco"

"Sce thie cornoction of "cxico with tie: and see how the

situation 1a", ¡cur tanis dastrel es beer. to

Intelllionco ChIef,

It 1o possiblelatt could stay on as

consul, altiough reca vlo vent do lin replicencut es

intelligence Calof, would io in arce, focause lem a3y re-tly

10 sor10r 19 the sorrice and voca ied precionaly und tic

18

---

## Page 21

10b 01 Intel Chlof 0f :cxico, 40, lie vicnt baci: 10

now to will return to lis oli job.

uvare a..

19

201-0749651

---

