# 104-10088-10171

## Page 1

104-10088-10171

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

LIST

SACHET

11 March 1965

IX-2437

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

General: ANMUG/1 Da

eng Report #278

Specific 0 Luisa RODRIGUEZ Calderon/Photegraph

Survellance gi Cuban Consulate Mexico

City

I. On 9 February 1505,

AMMUG/1 identified a

photograph of Luisa RODRIGueL calderon, who he stated

had been connected with the DGI (Directorio General de

Inteligencia) and the former Secretary of the Young Com-

munists in the Cuban Ministry oi Exterior Commerce.

According to AvnUG/l, the Cuban Government thought

RODPIGUEZ had been recruited by the United States

Government while in Mexico so she was recalled to Cuba,

AVMUG/1 was not sure of the details but recalled something

concerning her having received a lefter from an American.

Further, AMMUG/1 recalled something abcut an American

student who visited Cuba who was

supposed to have made a

recruitment pitch to RODrIGU

•Or

ssociated in some

manner with a pitch made to her.

8G/1 did not know

the source of these alleged pitches

This photograpn is partor the surveillance of the

Cuban Consulate in Mexico City and was taken from Film

No. 293, Photograph 16,

dator 2 December 1963.

3. WH/C/RR/CS Comment. The photograph of Luisa

CALDERON Carralero (201-734274) attached to HIVIMIA-21612

was compared to the aforementioned photograph with the

result that both photos seem to be identit

Piccolo

WH/C/RR/OS

В. Stor.

Ben Stotts

C/wH/c/RR/OsS

201734

ROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS

DESTROY AFTER USES

IS COPY

SEGNET

0002816

PAGE

28

COPY

NO.

of 319

---

