‘Vfoa-10337-10308)

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

fae

BRIEFING-Arp Offsite, 23-24 January 1995
Historical Review Group “

I. Background
A. Established in 1992 by DCI as part .of Openness Policy
- Part of Historical Review Program managed by csr
- HR70-14 resulted from recommendations of Task. Force

B. DCI Woolsey confirmed the Program before HPSCTy 1993
{ "Increased accessibility" to Cold War records

C. Collaborate with History Staff, Academic Coordinator

D. Purpose: Declassify certain categories of 30-year old
records, of historical value
- Topical approach used rather than systematic
- Briefed Excom in 1993

E. Kennedy Assassination records assigned to HRG
II. Releases

A. Mandatory:
- Kennedy Assassination records :
- Foreign Relations of the United States series,
State Department

B. Voluntary:
1.Soviet National Intelligence Estimates (10 yrs old)
2."Studies in Intelligence" articles
3. Covert actions (11 identified by DCI)
4. Other collections

C. Records Released:
1. JFK-Reviewed more than 325,000 pp (Sequestered,
: Oswald 201)
Includes ~163,000 pp microfilm print outs-72 reels
Released to NARA 217,000 pp
Third Agency (esp FBI), Hse Assntn Cmmttee, SSCI
HPSCI, Ford Library
- est. 100,000 pp

2.  NIES-more than 400 estimates


- Interagency mechanism

3. FRUS-5,700 in 1994 (4,700 in 1993)

- State Historian's views on covert action

4. Other: <

oa
TOTAL

\
E. Other
Had

Covert actions under review-Bay of Pigs, Guat.
- Top down approach :

History Source Collection-28,000 pp

Raoul Wallenberg Collection- 1,500 pp

Selected documents for conferences (Harvard,
Cuban Missile Crisis)

Dulles History (700 pp)

"Studies in Intelligence"

RELEASES:

FY 1994-125,000 pp : rasta
FY 1993-104,000 pp “ ee
factors

planned to do "block review" on Vietnam and

Korea DI and NIC publications.

On hold in view of E.O. 12356

III. All of this adds to already heavy work load of the IROs
and others in directorates

Iv. JFK Board: Describe the Board
- Will review all redacted documents

V. HRG Review Process-next page


13-00000

«i

LA Mis c8t ce/ MCevrew atogtam

Ceages=: TO RELEASE cet f ty Aw ReconPs
OF AAI STAITCAL VALUE

“. Qaees)prar- Jobe Pe heeacay Assaessvectn Mecaed! ¢
Peviewrd Meno TH#A4 $e x 00e err*
\ Or RE Cou DS .~ 3 a5 Joo 7
Thap AEE KG Joo, 000
iy aie THEE & EEL Apis oFus

fly dee. fC Fes

{ ~ eae
ae wv atl aay tte Vo STRATE Secure whey,

¥ Khoon be chen beng Cerbec hou
S GaP rene Mee uO Muesse/e eect, EF C-

i“ eo
bo SPeorrs

yen, Oreomenks
FOU WOT MUMS ator


New Note (Personalized)

CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF INTELLIGENCE

EXECUTIVE OFFICER

x30185
NOTE FOR: JOHN QUINONES
FROM: Sara S. Lucas
DATE: 21 02 95 04:29:25 PM

SUBJECT: DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW PRESENTATION

1. THE HISTORICAL REVIEW GROUP, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF INTELLIGENCE, IS
PREPARED TO.HELP SUPPORT THIS EFFORT. WE PROPOSE A DISPLAY OF THE COVERS OF
SEVEN STUDIES , HANDOUTS OF ANOTHER THREE, AND SOME SORT OF GRAPHIC/HANDOUT
ON THE VOLUME OF MATERIAL REVIEWED. ~~

2. WE WILL, OF COURSE, NEED SOME HELP ON THE GRAPHICS -- SINCE WE HAVE NO
CAPABILITY HERE OTHER THAN FOLKS WHO HAVE NICE HANDWRITING.

3. AS TIME PERMITS, PLEASE PROVIDE GUIDANCE ON WHERE TO BE WHEN, AND A
POC FOR GRAPHICS ASSISTANCE.

THANKS, SARA LUCAS
x30185

ce: BRIAN LATELL

JOHN PEREIRA
O

RRY HARRELSON
|]OHN.

New Note (Personalized)
