# 104-10131-10088

## Page 1

14-00000

* 104-10131-10088

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 .

CONFIDENTIAL

Chia:, Clearance Branch

03

Jasas S. Spangler

Appraisar

NICHERICE, Ellen Anne

4534 353

06, 23

1 4 MAY 1970

Into derried concERNs :

EllEN WICHTRiCH OR

04

esc into on ALfunso WiCHTRiCIt

The parents of Suoject

have resid

1n a Forta

in Central America since 1947. ine Isther vas an exevutive

drink)company in Nexico City and 13 currently an executive 115h

the Auerican Charber of Comerce 1n Mexico CIty.

So Subjeut's father

was investigated in 1902 or operatiocal agorgval.

Ms security tile, Fasculis generally favorable and tends to establish tie

-cleansin? do Subject, the father, and Suoject's dother. The ratiar sas

bors in Menico in 1915 di foreign parents ino vecase naturalized clülzers

1: 1323 and the father ins derlative citizensily. Subjest's mother is &

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

mutural vorn citizan.

6. Mle 201f309993 on the father wus foulewed In Doll/loIt someo

tiat he vas an aculve contact for the panas statloy between 197 and 17).

He has been of laterest to the flexico Clty station since 1950 acd receired

an 0/A 1n October 1962. He was a social friord oi the recent COS thare.

He was active in providing the station with anti-comunist Ilterature an

incoration, and he was teralnated as a contract agent by the new cosy 27

The Deputy Calef si Will indicated that the lather was such a consarvative

right winger that his Inioration was blased. He 1s still available as a

contact.

9. Credit and erialnal checks on Subject ard NAC's on Subject, in-

cluding passport, and lAC's on her father were negative. RI & K cicecies

and OS Indices

subject and her parents were negative.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

