# 104-10171-10013

## Page 1

104-10171-10013; 5:

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

Oales, Tank Panca V

PHOCESSING

ACTER

censes lill 027 1.006

821e08

arter of station, stils

докт

ATTA STRUALTS RUTERNOL

INNESs WON 1777, 16 A222 1562

parissillad hormula are ClA repario, maitora 134 EATaRgE 169, ROS ISb.

As lodex 1o abiacrod.

DAD OF DISPATCH

Altichrenise (terradla)

624.156. (1.00p7)

3 - 8M, 1/4668 (113)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only,

Do Not Reproduce

sirin

sAnticaton

SECRST

M'e inta

Ió d05 69

CASE OCSPATONTO

APR 2 6 1352

DANDEY MUAT ANO TANDO

19551-3946/3

+8250220298

---

## Page 2

2- 515.013

150

2= April 1p62

Chief, Fast Ferce/W

Galet of Station, unMAVE.

Operational, UFOGE

DiT, Scatlaso ie Duba

MITENTIC TABLETITO: PA/KUCAGE/AUBE.

06

on 9 April 10e, i

11 April Lyse, Santingo dc Cuba; Pasi Discus!

De bose 1016

.08 eaterrseved.

island Jeach, telegione

08

Solice said that during the resclutica te ut a nember of the

DR In the lal:cralty or licuero.

riter the serolution he vent to the

Unlicrsity of Oriodic, Santicjo ic liba, ma: c:antually beccue the DiE

chicf for tie ci-y.

In regari to kis fcrace it association he haù no

oporational Iceis, claining that nil contact vit: IR menbers terminated

111 1959; and he knew no one who attained ant static la the Castro

GovernIsent.

As IRE chief for Santlaco, the souric claimed that he hol 50

membero uno he consiúorci veil orsaricea and capable of any type of

He said that there were, and are, other sembers, but le doçs

not consluca thei in the sane category with sie 50 wio are organized into

le said cach cell has nine non. Mere are four célla: in the

Unfiersity of friente and two in the alah scioel.

4. He caid that he left santiago in liarch Iúa and turned the DRE

over to his deputy.

le then kent to labang an! infolied the DRE leader-

ship that the second In comani had taies over and ho ves told that

Habana rould initiate contact with the new lesier.

"(l'óte: Since close

relations ere maintained bi the JHAVE Station erd the DRE, no attempt

Has made to press the souce for names and sidresses, etc:, as this 1l-

formation can be obtained in subseguent outstic debriefings. The JHAVS

Miscer responsible for the DRE operational sasters vas inforned of the

source's arrival and processins.)

soerce said that at the tie he len Santiago, the remants of

the Catholic student organization was tryin; to nic contact vith the

DiE and he belleves that by this time this coatact has been node: He

cald thet the Dill mender who was following this satter; and who vould

rollos through, was a blied person.

6. Ilsting the arms and supplies in the gossession of the DRE in

Santiago, tie source saiù that 1t has sout so pomis of plastic remain-

1n0 0ut of a shiprent or 20 pounds which has rielied fron the DRE in

liabana. Eo sulù she DRE in Sentiao placeà bass in places vhere the

expiosion sowd not lijure rajene. As fer as aras are concerned the

source said that the DRE in Santiago has tea!, caliber pistols; five

38 caliber pistols; one l'-3j and one Tory sir.

T. The source furnished the follolo lintel-tipe information:

---

## Page 3

•4-00000

]

X1 - 237

рабо ??

He cald that his fasier is in jell in Puerto Bonlato,

and that in oricr

Do try and der din lIve, the cource ucut to sce tarar

clarzino "Anibal" Castilla, the diler of trainins for the Palna Soriano

Mistary sacannent, whom he kei pros their dayo in the Santiao Files

school, Source =no hio ples an: "inibal" told his that before he could

act upon 1t, he would have to tels to the source for Ilve hours in order

to ceteraine his political oriertaiion. The cource replied tiras he dia

not coac to talli polltico but to picad for his father.: "inibal"

answered that he would think about 1: and call the cource one way of

mower, out he neier called.

soiric thount that thie otory chequase-

y icacastrated the (Coumnist) political orientation of "Anibal

D. The brother of "Anihal" (pera fa avoie) is "Dertico"

Castllla, firet name possibly Alberto.

le resigned fros the asty and

18 nou I1v1nú In Santiego, but the source is not clear on "Dertico'a"

political orientation.

Flectra Fernandes, the ulie of Mender Colnche (the

Santiago G-2 cilef), 1s no longer the civil leai: (conissionado) of

sant1a5o. she 10 nou the rreslion a the federecion de liujuica Cubanas..

The source has flier s compleie willtary nep of Oricate:

province to the DRE member he leît in charge of Santlego Dile (see pora s

" nabove) •

Information 1s passed for santiago to tle DiS in Habana, and:

• the latter, In turn, 1s to fortard tie Inforintion to the states.

source said that his contacts wio work 17 lilcaro report

that the Nicoro-!layar! Arriba arce is restricted and thet unknown types.

or military Installations are beine constructed.

I. The foreign Instructors In the Unliersity of Oriente con-

sist of Czecho and Calleono.

Tie Czecho hare started a ne: medical

scroot in the university and the Mifleans. bric triien over the Ausiness

Adainistration Courses.

"elson L. RAYlOCK.

---

## Page 4

S.E G.RIT.

ATTACIPRIAT TOI UP64-3916 Datad 16 A pr12 62

BIS ETill - 38406)

CKA: 2351 SORSO MANIOCTONI CORaTI A 12 ANS: 208

(5.00 OFE = 3861)

CRA 2360 ODallo Jullan Duscil Conzalore A 12 41S 027 (823 UTCA - 156618)

CKe: 1970 2080 Antonido Sagums Careei 1 22 82S 903 (35S 05J4 - 1866/9).

CRi 1381 Roul SAnchEl Rodriguear A 12:81S PTA (S55 ITSA - SSS/R)

CXA 2391. duBlino Palayo Dunalo Perle PORUanCaI A La $$S 8,7 (SES UFSi-S8b6/5)

CKA 1401 RACON AlONSOI A I2 895 P41 (585 UFRA - 35USF6).

CRI LãI Bellio Aajandro Acrecacher 1 19 995 968 (525 3744 - 2046/28

CXA 1628 Hoctor do 18 ParApuala Muorioni 1 12÷90 361 (553 9722 - 29106/0)

Cal 23, Kanual Stade-Cestiler 1 22 785266: (858 UTO = 296619

CEA JoS8 Antondo PaRLo CREAlCE GreS,01

1 12 335 929 (SI UTER @ 30b6N1

Ol 166r Alojandro Prossido Serache Corzalors 1 22 895.939 (555 UPDR - 1856/32)

CXe LaBe Areando Go Samvor horroror 1 22 903 026 (555 UPDA - 1565/26)

CEl 2491 Donald Arresich Bouloer A 22:901 022 6955 UTS - 3866/258

CAA 156e 12Dorto Homantas DaLIs A 22 093 249 (552 TTI Ö JS4S76)

---

