# 104-10129-10101

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10129-10101

..

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

EYES ONLY

8 October 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

FROM

: Michael E. Schneeberger

SUBJECT

: Philip B. F. AGEE

Exposure of CIA Personnel

Reference is made to the attached P&L RYBAT cable from

London (IN 058476) dated 4 October 1976 which indicated,

according to a very sensitive source, that one Ron CASPER (ph)

of The Washington Post recently was in contact with AGEE. During

that contact CASPER asked AGEE questions regarding the Kennedy

assassination with specific interest relating to the involve-

ment of OSWALD and Cubans.

CASPER also queried AGEE regarding

personalities assigned to the Mexico City Station in 1963, and

AGEE provided CASPER with details regarding the Station's

surveillance capabilities and

the functions of specific indi-

viduals of interest to CASPER.

2: Regarding the individuals of interest to CASPER, the

following is a brief summary of pertinent information relating

to those individuals identified by AGEE to CASPER:

NAME LISTED IN CABLE

OS FILE NO. AND SUMMARY

BUSTOS, Charlotte

BUSE LA Charlotte Eniet

of Station at Trinidad/ since

June 1974, integrated State

cover.

Well known to AGEE

through assignment to Mexico

City, July 1967-August 1972.

FREDERICK, William

FREDERICK, William Fulton,

SF#60 785; former GS-12 LA

Division Ops Officer who was

dismissed due to improper

handling of Agency funds in

September 1966; may have

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 007472

EYES ONLY

г/р/

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEGRET

EYES. ONLY

[STEWART) Joe (or (Jack)

SCOTT, Winston

WHITE, Allan

03

WATSON,

A. S. (Stanley)

...:"

DILLON,

Paul

assisted AGEE in his Inside the

Company. Exposures include

"close

relationship with AGEE

and CIA Von A-Z. As of June

1972 Subject was employed by

U. S. Department of Labor,

Bureau of Labor Statistics.

03

STEWART, Jack NMN, SF#32 953;

former LA Division Case Officer

who retired 30 January 1970.

Assigned to Mexico, 1960-1965.

Exposed in Who's Who in CIA

and CIA von A-7.

Former Chief of Station at

retired July 1969,,

Mexico City Stationdied circa

1959-1969;

1973. Exposed in

Who's Who in

CIA, CIA Von A-Z, and mentioned

numerous times in AGEE's book.

WHITE, Alan Perine, SF#28 700;

former DDO/OPS/ITG

employee who

retired 31 July 1975; assigned

to Mexico City,

1963-1967 as

Deputy Chief of Station; exposed

in CIA Von A-Z and Who's Who in

CIA.

03

WAISON, Daniel Stanley, SF#57 626

former

Chiet/ raining Resource:

Group/DTS who retired 30 June

1973; was assigned to Mexico

1965-69.

Former security interest

due to friendship with BOOTS.

CIA Von A-Z.

-

0136

DILLON, Paul Leo, SF#43 334: 0»

currently a Case

Officer a1

assigned to Mexico City

is Chiet of Soviet Ups, 1905-

1969.

Exposed. in CIA Von A-z.

Listed in AGEE book,

, identified

in October 1974 Bridgeport,

connecticut, Post, and known to

Communist Party, May 1976.

8/RJ

2

СЕСПЕТ

EYIS ONLY

---

## Page 3

4-00000

202A88

7/80

VOGLE, Don

HAUSMAN, Cynthia

STEELE, Robert

07

[RAMIDES, Dan?

07

[RAMIDES, 2o0K]

[HUGHES, Frank

SaCHET

EYES ONLY

VOGEL, Donald Frederic, SF#55 277;

urrently Deputy Chiet of Statio

it Islamabad? Pakistan

was

assigned to Mexico City, 1967-70

as DC/SB/CIG. Exposed

in Winter

Listed In AGE

Bridgeport, Connecticut, Post,

and Who's Who in CIA.

HAUSMANN, Cynthia Joy, SF#61 423;

currently assigned to

C1 Staff/

REA; assigned to Mexico City,

1965-67.

Connecti-

book.

STEELE, Robert Hampton, SF#230

069;

SB Case Officer

who resigned

from Connecticut (successful); was

assigned to Mexico City, 1966-68.

Listed in AGEE book and

October

1974 Bridgeport, Connecticut, Post;

numerous publicity since election

to Congress.

SF#188 141;

former WH Case Ofticer who resigned

February 1969; was assigned to

Mexico City, 1966-69. Exposed in

CIA Von A-Z and listed in AGEF

book.

SF#100 937;

tormer UTR instructor who retired

June 1972.

Listed. numerous times

in AGEE book.

03

HUGHES, Frank Wallace, SF#57 626;

former

CI Staff Branch

Chief who

retired in June 1973. Exposed in

Quicksilver Times, August-September

1969 article.

3

SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

EYES ONLY

3. Office of Security indices reflected no traces in

the name of Ron CASPER, The Washington Post correspondent who

was in contact with AGEE.

However, it is believed' that CASPER

may be identifiable with Ronald KESSLER, who was mentioned in

the Press Credibility security file (#610 955) as a Washington

Post journalist who won the George Polk Memorial Aware in

February 1973.

4.

The foregoing is provided for your information. No

further action appears necessary at this time except for

dissemination of this memorandum to interested Agency officials.

Michael E. Schneeberger

Security Analysis

GrOUP

Att

4

SECRET

EYE. ONLY.

---

