# 104-10110-10037

## Page 1

-00000

104-10110-100371

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OUTGOING MESSAGE

1440-

SIaMALCENTERUSROMEY

TOO

пра

ron

OMF O

FLASS

SECRET

ЛИСАТОЛ

DATE-TIRAN AMOND

1215592

cm

DIRÉCTOR

STAFF

CONF:

2A6

INFO: FILE

$00, 1

то тока

c/502; 06C, 800/DO

0

16. 28

EYES ONLY DeMA

620706

DISSEM BIN.

PER LIA

130(= (K0:)

TO: PRIORITY PORT OF SPAIN. 2

RYBAT PLUWBLANKET Y

56848

1. ACCORDING TO OUR INFO, CHARLOTTE BUSTOS" NAME UTLL APPEAR IN

TEXT OF AGEE. BOOK. ALTHOUGH WE DO NOT KNOW WHAT OPERATIONAL CONTEXT

WILL BE OR WHAT DETAILS AGEE WILL DISCUSS. WE EXPECT ADVANCE COPIES

OF HIS BOOK TO BE IN HANDS OF BOOK CRITICS, ETC: BY 15 NOV.

OBVIOUSLY, PRESS COMMENTARY OR OTHER FORMS OF PUBLICITY POSSIBLE ANY

TIME THEREAFTER: Y

2. FOREGOING IS MERELY IN NATURE OF ALERT SINCE WE DO NOT

FORESEE AT THIS POINT PROBLEM OF SUFFICIENT PROPORTION TO MERIT

SERIOUS: CONSIDERATIONS OF EARLY REASSIGNMENT OR OTHER SUCH ACTION.

HOWEVER SHOULD YOUR JUDGMENT BE, NOW OR AT ANY POINT IN FUTURE AS:

REVERBERATIONS FROM AGEE BOGK OCCURS THAT DANGER OF PHYSICAL OR :

• TERRORIST ATTACK, EXTREME POLITICAL SENSITIVITIES OF HOST COUNTRY, OR

OPERATIONAL CONSIDERATIONS DICTATE ANOTHER LOOK AT THIS JUDGMENT- YOU

SHOULD ADVISE US AT ONCE: PLEASE DO NOT DISCUSS PAARA I INFO WITH

ANYONE OUTSIDE STATION. Y

23

3. FILE:

17326-46/3- E-2 IMPDET•r

DATE:

• 12 NOVEMBER 1974

ORIG:

JAMES E. FLANNERY

UNIT:

LA/SAF

EXT:

9014

RETURN TO CIA

1120n

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

СООРОМАТІНО ОБЛІСЕКУ

AALRASING OFFICER

CUSMNICATON

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

--=---=---57"

Spera

CALA/CAR

TAEATICATIMNO ORT

E 2: IMPDET

---

