# 104-10051-10199

## Page 1

1104-10051-10199

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

NUUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM:

TO

1. IVE/1/Finland

Ruth No

Joyner

WE/6/Canada

1202 J

x-4601

ROOM

DATE

NO.

RECEIVED

PORNAR•2»

1606 I 3-345

22/6

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

PF.

2. Chief, vE/6

1058 I

3.

4.

RI/ DI-P

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

RU/

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

24/0

stul

BR/CE/P

COPY

RECOND

COORDINATING OFFICERS

NAME

Rooki

OFFICE

WE/1/Finland

COMMENTS

"GOLUB, GRIGORy yE.

ENCLOSURE

DATE MICROFILMED

FORM

ABSTRACT

INDEX

AUTHENICATING OFFICER

NAME

tach agnes

Ruth N. Joyner

RELEASING

OFFICER

NAME

Eve landan

• Gran

TITLE

WE/6/Canada

TITLE

Chief, NE/6

FILE NUMBER

201 - 150156

DOCUMENT DATE

*26 JUN 1959

DOCUMENT NUMBER

OCOW-2987

- .112

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TO

INFO

FROM

DISPATCH

Chief al Station, Ottaxa

Chief of Station, Falsink

CLASSIFICATION

PAkt

Chlotg WE

SUBJECT

JAVA - Grigordy Ie, BOLia and I. MAKEEV

ACTION REQUIRED

Passago to Ilalson

REFERENCE(S)

060A-3745

SYMBOL AND NO

CEON - 2987

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

202 - 150156 (01. Ie. 90108)

DATE

B 6 JUN 1959

RE: "43-3"'

— (CHECK "X"' ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

2. Ee was bars about 3925 in the environs of alther Diasse of Kharkov. Fa

proudly asserted that he was a Ukrainim. During World War II ho was a colonel in

the Saytet Army, say action in Ieningrad and Moscow and was wounded sis times. He

alained to bo a child psychologists Although he lookad Ilke a product of perseat

stock, his conversation implied that he sas well-edncated and inouledgeable on

diplonatte affairs, Haris and eurent evarts which involve the usst, Contrarily.

his kontedge of life outside the USS& Has mazer. He tas married to Nina Fedoroval.

Rather sorrowtally he axplained that hs and his wifa mould like to hays children bat

30 fat haTe not been so blossed.. fis mein interest in sports was sidling. He was very

jovial, congental and seemed to enjoy playing host.: It has been very abrious that ha

always picka up the check when ha dines with lesterers - even 1f he 18 not tha hoste

To ona source GULUB stated he bad served in Viera, Warsaw, Badapest,

Sucharest and Sophdaj untie to another he stated that Belsind was hia first forsign

assigant. It is pousible that OWUs meat feltinic was his "first foreign assiga

ment* outside the Soviet Flos (If he had served in Vierna during the occupation), or

he conld have been deliberately attempting to confusa.. He has conversed obly in

Fussian and Finish; however, he stated that he had attended the language Instituter

We saspect that he also knows some inglish but my feol toluctant to converse in

Coults predecessor was a krom RIS officar, probably liB.. He suspect that

COLUS 13 now the top IMB afficer in Helsinid. Although me hays no concrets evidenca

for this suspicion, ve feel that dOLußis interest in Westerners generally and in

partieularly in his oppordte mmbers in Westers Installations in Felsinkd is more tha

would be called for by his positton.

5. Ds 2074s than shown a neuspaper photo of GOLD, stated that GOLUB's face was

faniliar., When DS 2074 was told GOIUl*s nans, Soures replied that there was a Lied-

tenant colonal with this name in the HiB. Souxce could not remenber the directorate

bat thought possibly it uight have been a technieal asction.

Source knew that It. Col.

GOLUS was & "fadrIy high boss."

DS. 2074 could not recall whether he had ever seen

It. Col. GOLUB to inor him so he did not know if the GOLUB in the nensphoto was

identical with the It. tol. GOLUB of the MeD.

We would apprecdate ary further information on BALl which might substantlate

neur suspleions of his Intelligenco activities

?. We are trying to identity positively the N. MAKEEY.

He have written to

the Helsinki and London stations for more Information on the Makeuvs who have been

assigned to these areas. for lour truukilod onlas the cescription of the N. halil

how assigned to Finland, more nezzly Ilts that of Nikolay Garastmovich MARNEV tho Wi

fornerly assigned as & TASS corraspondent to London from 1950 to 1953 and as Cultural

"Attache to the soviet inbaasy, Bom fron February 1956 to about May 1957. In both

London and bom ha nas spected of engaging in intelligance activitles.

appreciate receiving Infornation on the l. MAKELY, now in Helsinki, unich might halp

sus to identify hin.

:22 June 1959

Distribation:

3 - Ottawa

1 - Cos, Helsinka

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORMS

AND 51-29

WE/ 6/Canada:RNJoyner

1 - 201-150156

1 - WE/1/Finland 2 - WE/6/Canada

CLASSIFICATION:

WAS AS

PAUL RE CANOOD

701-150150

PAGE NO.

÷10-57-53

(40)

CONTINUED

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

---

