104-10217-10188 , 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

errs

SEGET (

44329 (962

To 3s Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. 8. J. Papich

ae $ Deputy Director (Plans) ., “7.
anl-% 1827 ”
BUBJECT 1 Richard GIBSOX,-fair Play for Cubs Comittee

1. Reference is nade to conversations between Mr.
Victor Wallen of this Agency and Mr, William Cregar of the
Bureau concerning Subject. The substance of this report
bas been discussed with lr. Crogar.

2, This Agency received a letter dated 4 July 1962, on
stationery of the Fair Play for Cuba Committeo, 799 brozdway,
Mew York 3, ¥. ¥., Gigned "A Friend". In the letter the
writer indicated he could be of assistance to this Agency;
suggested Hontreai, Canada, as a discrest tocation for a
meoting if this Agency were Anterested in discussing the
posuibilities of cocperatica; asked that thie Agency arrange
for his transportation and expenses while in Montreal; and
requested that he be personally contacted by phono at the
Couuittee’s address or at his home. The Committee stationery
letterhead contained two nanes, Robert TABER, Executive
Becretary, and Richard GIBSON, Acting Executive Secretary.
From the letter there was no way to determine whether TAPER,
GIBSON, or gcue other person wrote the letter. This Agency
took no action on this letter.

ae

3. Mr. Yallen made available a copy of the above letter
to Mr. Cregar on 16 July 1962.

|
|
i
i
4. On 19 July 1962, Philip K. Reiss, Department of
Agriculture, Code 111, Extention 6660, requested an inter-
view with a representative of this Agency. Reiss, a former
employee of this Agency, was subsequently interviewed on 20
July 1962, at which time he produced a personal letter,
dated 16 July 1962, from Richard GIBSON, Fair Play for Cuba
Comittee, to Thorton Hagert, 214 EB. Columbia, Falls Courch,
Virginia, Seiss' stepbrother. Heiss expiained that Gitsca
wan a friend of his stepbrother, and apparently at sometine |

cs COPY

SECRET : i 30 = oa

Se Sa


|
|

Distribution: Based on: GIBSON*s letters of

, eo
we <
im the past his steptcother had told GIBSON that he (Reiss) ‘
was a former ezployee of this Agency. In the letter GIBSON
asked Hagert to tell Roiss to informa his (Reiss') forser
eaployers that he (GIBSON) had written a letter several weeks
ago discreetly trying to get in touch with the Agency; tine
waa running out; it was a matter of life or death; suggested
Montreal as mecting place; snd suggested this Agency contact
him at his office im Kew York (799 Broadway) or his hous,
Phone YU 2-6011.

8. Mr. Fallon made available a copy of this second
letter to Mr. Cregar on 22 July 1962, Reiss was informed
on 24 July 1962 that he (Zeiss) would be contacted by the
¥.B,1, with regard to the letter.

6. Richard GIBSON has been the subject of previous
correspondence received from the Bureeu; this Ageacy's
gecurity file on Philip K. Reiss, a former employee, contains
no derogatory information, and this Agoncy has no record of
Thornton Hagert.

7. Attached are copies of Richard JIBSON's letters
dated 4 July 1962 and 16 July 1962,

CSCI-3/772, 384

attachzonts: Herewith
4a stated above

Orig & 1 ‘ddressee 4 July 1962 and
Z RID 16 duly 1962
i = ci/eea File No.: 201-308052 Libor, :
1 = TFH/R
. 2 = TFH/ct

TFW/CI/R.Tansing:sab (24 August 1962)

SECRET

