(2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
: ; RETURN TO Cia

i Usa Cnly
ot Repreduce

SECRET

aa
am Tonapaais
: 23
polfootedfrs (pae2- (6S
Ofer
ist, 14-1 9 April 1957

Chief of Satioa, [Heletari | Suieet

STarruM/OPsEAtIONS Ob
vid Weeht'g Contact wite
ous

Ne mmenepemnen ines ian se

1, Subsequent to receipt of « briof nemrandun (koel 2) frou
vr, Grant G. mien, Chief of the Political Seetioa, regarding Pulbright
Yro fessor David Ye contact ith Grigory Ye. COLUB, Milliker was asked
by. the [Statica) te arrange for Professor (AXQrH to call at the OOICID ia-
stcllatida bo thet bo could be debriefed in detail.

ow
2, "refesser(S afriend ef Hilliker, is a Russian speaking research f
renolar whose interest {o 19th century Russia, He is engaged in post-doctorate
research at the Slavie Studies Departamt of the University of Helsinki under
« Puloright otipaad, In sarly Pebrusry be end his wife mado a trip to theo.
Soviet Union under the auspices of Into: at their cun_expense, [HSCHT}s
adtress in Holeiakt io[Hictalahdenkatu 16°C 89 (tel: 332 an apartaent
butlding owed. ty try Jom MURKIKEN, husband of [YOBRACK/1"s)Pimieh tutor,
and « wealthy Relsink! shipping man. It_yia MrO/MURLINGS sto resoamended the
XAL-VALA Travel Agmey through wich Mscifl arranged “fe trip to the USSR.
(hyvaet Consulate offielals have discouraged the ues of this agency to Rusaia-
hound Amoricane for wistated reasons.) :

Oe

J. On the afternsca of April 4, Professor [iZGrt} at Williker's request,

cviled at the latter's office where he wae introduced’ to Jana P. Kieline

yhoa Hilliker geaeroaaly presented aa OD.CI0's Pessien export, After thanking

OCNEGM for giving us Mle tims, Cichline took hin to her oun offiee and obtained
report.

the enelosed

ob
b.O%nts ms not a[lomated-duration oourtehip by the Soviets mainly
decause[{HuOHT)ebnee it that way. <t the end of the interview, be sald that
he had conwulted several tines with Ais wife end hat indeed debated ubether oF
Rot earry on the game, Thea he pointedly. asked Kichline, "Could you tell me
in just what way I ooald Mave been of help hed I eontinued?® Lishline
offered two reasone: one, it vould have aided 0D.CID in knowing and comparing

wodye 0. of the Soviets in their appresches to Wectersars (smaricans
ia rae Were ia Heleinkt) ant ive, 1f the eaurtahip persisted until be

SECRET :

&


}

ae
SECRET vm \

had left Pinlaad, it might bave led to the dissovery ef Soviets wo wold
pler up the eontast elecware, Should the Soviets bave decided on a long n
Tange poriod of galtivation, Citcit) tnowgat over there two reesons, adiing, aaatiat
*t ouprove tho possibility of dafeet'on ia always there, too —
way,” but sald that be 41d not regret having brokea off bio relations with
‘71K: “aad VOROET eines be was bere to emncentrate on his own wart and did
bot care to becams inwlved in my other typo of astivity, particularly fl
involving ¥-G type Soviets whoes interests were obviously profeceiom]
along iat line,
Fo)

5.[R:Crr repeatedly ecmseated, “What could the Soviets pusibly wad
frog mel and“it was appareat frou tho eauversation that be was unaware of
approaches te_other individuals in the ediestional field with the exceptica i

Of *rofesror{ArtiaF LOW ATT) whom ops ‘cringing up in his coaversations,
Lut readily offered the informetion

He seked no questions re toa. 7.
welch he hed heard fron OUR inso Gieh detail ac he could recall. Me seqaet

curprised that COLI kept referring to thie individual and appeared to search
omed COLUB's astoniahawmt at resaiving

for a comact fren Gishling wenn be seat

a letter writte ee, ‘R}froa the States, Sines Kichline was unavare of
the lett.r, she merely asked whether COLUB had alaborated on its contents,
which ne nad net,

6, It was[foSt'9 lnpression that COUB was euch core ape rtact then
hia diplonstic rank implied beosuse of his air ond his dealacering behavior
toward VORONTH ead hie lafericre at the Consulate, ie aloo oaid that
P7LUB wis am indivual of eore thas average cuming, dota in converoation
and action, Furthermore, he tea reascaably young ean (37), $0 buvo bed 09
many important Iron Cartain pootos as a matter of fact,(ik doglared, te
had voiced this impressisa to COLUB following a rundown on past poctot
“Tou mst bo en iayortent maf? to which COLUB replicd Jomlarly, "lech,
yeah, wiry iupotaas I At ey rate, fraa his Hyber reak oa the diplesatio
List end from/KSOtT!@ Geseription, ha does appear a Little higher level than

ARQ BSIOY who sovvskated wlth Joba H, BODGSOS,

cA Since (2G appeared tohave held is own ta nis verbal badgeringe
with LOD and TORDHIN ant sinco bo left little daibt ca the part of these
two Soviets that bo was intelligent coough to antieipete their motives,
Reither has attenpted to got in touch with hia eiaco the evening of March &
am thay aecnsed Him of subzitting to ea"imerice Iron Curtain" for deolariag
that under Ube efremstances he could not te their frieads,

8 Profenses@ieportered to call Killixer iamediately if the Soviets
attempt to reaow their matest.

og
9. Another Palbrighter, Dr. [OLfred LIVIN, alee a research scholar in
Rus. ten history, will leave for the USSR oa Ipril 4, It will te interectirg
to learn whether or mot he, too, will be coatactad and by whoa, eines his
Sane Lanlies an etimical beckgronad for which TORONIN hee epsaly and oa many

Occanions expressed Als distaste,

SECRET

a-“
dew tsa 2 feu /en

Jose ?, [Lebline



: : : 22
SEE TT Bel vof arma z4i3

anh

% 9 Apr 1957

Interviev vith Frofessor[favid #acizjon & Aprid 1957

At the end of Jnquary after making prelimtoary arrangements and

: . filttne catyyten tome trreugh the KALEVALA ‘fravel Agency tn Holeinkt,

: Professor [MECKf) and hie wife vore instructed to call at the Soviet Consulate
to eaeck on the progress of their visas. ‘Mr. QOLUB vas the first official to
vnom they vere referred; he seemed to knov in advance all the details of their
proposed trip and viat they really wanted. GOLUB said tmt the visa wasn't j
Feady but asked that they come back on the folloving Tucsday. OOLB did not i
speak English and asked if {t yould bo all right Cen FER to speak through :
a French interpreter. \ben(iCitf\oaid that he spoke Russian, QOLWB‘s interest =~
perked up apd, he began to chat quite freely. GOLUB then changed bia mind
ani told Jthat be vould rix him up vith @ visa right then and be vould {
not have to cone back the folloving Tuesday. After the procedure vas com :

i pleted, ani (GEtifi] and his wife got up to leave, GOLUB said: "Do come beck i
i after you get back and let me knov what you think of your trip.”. At this point
be pentioued that another Professor, (Arthur LONWATER} @ person for vbom be had

a very high regard, bad taken a similar trip to the Soviet Union not too long =

ago. He said that mich to hie gurprice be had received a istter from :

us varter iis return to the States. He then related a sad story concerning va

: “(LOATER; vho, be said, bad been chosen as a representative to 9 wathematician's |

i ovfhereds in the, ISSR, but hie firm vouldn't cough up the monay for (LOmUATER's}O6

trip. Since BECHT}did not knov(QOmVATEA) be nade no comment, end he and his

! wife left the Consulate. Ow

i ; 7
2. on the morning of February 3, (Gil) and his vife left by train for
' Moscow vhere they spent 4 days. They then vent to Leningred for threo days
‘ami finally camo back via train to Guleinxt. (ici) mentioned only one incident |
of cote - in Leningrad - concarning telephone books. Ra said he hed pronteed '
i ‘a friend in the States that if be had a chance he would call the friends friend |
in Leningred and pasa greetings. When ho asked for @ telephone bock in
Leningrad, ha vas told that they bad all been lost, No one appeared to be
belpful in locating one for him, end, finally, decided to try to bribe
the guide into getting him one. The giide vent into @ closed cabinet in tho
hotel lobby and produced one...an old 1951 edition.(apcef)called the mmber
appearing alongside the friend's name hd # vpice anovered on the other end.
He did not a] to be the gentleman vhon[{H as calling but said he
knew the nan ves trying to get in touch vith, that be vas voll, otc., i
etc., but that be wasn't available. The call ended there ont (auc) da not |
&

press the matter further.
t

a
3. A week after (nei a return (February 19), he and his wife decided
to atop by the Soviet Consulate to give OOLUB their impressions of their trip.
‘ A er Gggrman vee there thie tine ‘There vas ro previous call announcing
that MJand his vife vere couing to the Copsulate - they Just stopped in-
COLUS appeared ‘very pleased to see then. counted the pleasant espects
of bis trip and said that he and bis vife enjoyedit very mich. After a bit
of chit-chat about the trip, OOLIB asked to met HECHT again...Bow about that
pane night at the Adlon Restaurant?! Professor(HBCHT}said politely that be
OG



SECRET

page 2

would like to see him again, but perhaps the Palace Restaurant vas more
convenient, ani they arrange! to met at J o'clock that night (February 19)
Qt the Palace Hotel. OOLUS stated that be vould bring aleng the Cultural
‘ttache because by spoke Exglish and thus vould be able to talk to
KBCHT's} wife [(H'agjvife dose not speak Russian.)
Oe OG

4, The night of 19 Fetruary, 8 very snovy night,(Hjand hio wife appeared
at the Palace Rotel at eisht o'clock, G. was there alc + QO excused the
Cultural Attache (furi 5.) vbo bad another engagement and could not
come, G asked if(H}vould not prefer a private dining roon. “(if}replied, "hs
you Like” and they took @ private dining rooa. @ appeared 10 @ good mood,
‘as very witty. He talked about his vife who wes in the bospital and blamed
the Finnish climate, Be sali he did not like the climte, the country or

£:* the Finna ‘and added, "Wy Jod here is to find « few pearls song evino!*

Dinner vent on till 1 a.m. - covering a discussion of politics, economics,
Das Capital, Soviet-Anericen foreign policy, American foreign policy end the
Hincarian situation. OOLUB's statement on Hungary? “Hungary is evon a greater
tragedy for us Russiens than. the Hungarians. I've lost a great friend who vas
killed in an attack. The poor Bmgarians had to call in the Russisns. As long
as the Americans have bases all over the vorld, wo have to come in lest anarchy
occur ami the Americans come in." He was very down on the Aoerican Bnbassy.
We Ruseians have a beautiful Rubassy; ve have many gatherings; ve invite
Americans, but they are elvays busy, You have an Iron Curtain here. Ba pb
wes also equally dom on USES: ,"Thoy are alvays lying.” QGLUB queried [Blas

to tho amount of K's otipend. (Hitold bia eiuce tt vas open knoviedgeS|Hilater
offered to pay the cheek (10,000 Finmmrks), but GOLUS refused to let him touch
it. On Stalin, GOLUB's only coment vas: “Stalin is the, tragedy of Russia.”
All through the dinner, GOLUB'a eyes continually, strayed to} HACE] vite, and
bs paid ber wany courtly comalizents through/ERCet) Be

waiters. At about 0100, they left the hotel restaurant and GOLUB headed for
the $5 trolley vhich he said would take him howe. Before they parted, hovever,
be tcok tvo tickets to the opera Boris Gulonoy out of his pocket and presented
then to the (ERRET'S} complinents of VORONIN. [ipcpt}acoapted the tickets.

lo

5. On February 21 at the presentation of Boris Qulonoy, the (Eaeereg vere
mot by OOLUB vho shoved thea to their seats right beside his ovny( A boy
eitting on,the other side of thea kept staring at OOLUB and the| HECHT s until
finally (i ffJeaid, "Do you knov vho this boy ia vho keps staring at ust”
G boasted that it was his business to knov people, and that thie boy vas a German
kid in the employ of AERO. During interntesion, GOLUB called VUROMIM and in
insalent tone of voice directed hin to join then.clIntroductions vere made.
VOROMIN spoke Mnglish. After the performance, (HECHT, vho had decided that
this should perhaps be the last meeting, hastily thanked his boots and started
to leave. OOLUB ignored hie gesture and quickly suggested a valk. WOROGH
Joined in at this monent. Vben[HBCHff]besitated, OOLUS taunted, “What's the,
entter, are you afraid of being seen in public vith us" At this, /HICET eave
in, and the four started ona short evening stroll. Before thay parted again,
VOROKIN said, "EX vould love to have you.cons over to ay place and meet my wife
and little daughter,” and asked for, talephone number. Cotes non-comittal

0G

week


Page 3

| Ole
6. Qn February 27, VORONIN called (lace) and, speaking Erglish, reiterated
ale tous invitation, suggesting a dinne? on March 2 (Saturday), When
‘the (H‘@ refused, pleading another VOROAIN suggested the fol ng
Yonday (arch af at 6130 p.m, vhich the(flefaccepted. On Monday the/B' afealiet
E at the VORONIN's address (LAanrotsates 18 D 52). The apartment vas very
gloory...a television had been turned on to station Tallin. IfjJeryptically
rermrked that it vos bad for the V'a little girl. Mra. V let this > by vithout
retort. Drinks vere brought {a - vocka for tho men and tokay wine for the
After an hour or so of getting acquainted with V's wife ami child,
euisteeeetisesecaaesy OOLUB srreared on stayed for dinner, Mre. ¥ was restless all the timo GOLUB
: vas around, (ABUHF)sald that he hed vorn a stick pin in bis lapel and
H his vife had worn a large dinner ring, Just in case they had to defend Lye:
ma Gael'g bed already begun to be nervous.) During coffee, OOLUB as

wonen.

} to relata to them the Life of sn average Anorican. (Bjtried to tell the life of
i an avereg: Fev York business oar emi both VORONIN abd GOLUB eeesed interested
/ . gpd ixpressed. GOLUB brought up the subject of the atentc bomb. Be asked vhy
i the U.S, bed dropped the,boad on Japan, “You vanted to keep us avay froa that
: part Of the vorld!” (Ei¢iJattempted to sive unbiased ansvers. Both Vand 0
quite vociferous ami excited during this conversation. GCLUB began to

i

refer to hie watch. Be eaid his vife vas expecting him and at about 2130,
after a short private consultation with ¥, be left. Hovever, before he took
Qeave, be said to HECHTY: “our talks were so intervsting; we'll have to go
for a weekend trip souevhere Ama near future, and ve boys must get together
for a 8 hh ‘time soon. ‘This vas an intentional exclusion of
ioe (are) tle] oes invited OOLUS to vieit the (HECfHS7 Dut GOLUB refused
: tee Tovitation and departed. VORONIN then came out Vith another invitation to
! the (BIcEr'g 45 vieit the VOROMIN's again, At this point [mH] felt the time

hed com: fo end this one-sided game. Be tald.Mr. VUROXIN that he bad been
very pleased with hia trip to the Soviet Union, that the impressions he had now
| : of the country and people and the V's and Mr. @ vere nice ones - so far, but if

things vent along as they seaved to be going, this impression might turn into

E a bad cope. -V vas very put out. Mrs. ¥ wekly put in, “Your people aro just like
; our people, I understand." Vedded, “We surely will eee you once before you 4
: loaves" [Bicmf)eald be hoped 60, oni atnce 1 vas 2300 boure then, tbe iezr‘e] O% :
j left. & :

1. (aliases that Mrs. V had told hin her age vas 33; VOROMIN's 37.
Mire. VOROXIN Bed cone to Central Asia froa Hungary vhea a small child of 5.
‘and net VOROKIN when they vere both pursuing

a career in the arts - she ballet ant be the violin.Ol(HEcei Jsurnieed that ber
father must have been mixed up in th: revolution at that time and vas perbaye
in exile.) VORONTH admitted to menberahip in the CP, but his vife shrugaed

her shoulders and said that she vas not a meaber, She displayed little caution
in ber remarks about the Soviet Union ani appeared dissatisfied vith things

in groeral.

|. _At(RECHT'a) rep2y to hie query es to vho ovned the apartment in vhich
tna(ECHE}s Lived, GOLUB asked, “Io it John MURMIMEM?", and added, “Be 1s an
goierstant ing capitalist.”



eranrr page &
ubbucd

ob

9. (Haru described COUR os a ran vith a great sense of Inmor, very
quick, very charp ani vitty. Ho. bas @ great senee of mmor and constataly
refere to himsalf as "I'n a Utrainian.” He is a child peyehologist. He bas
served in Vienna, Warvav, Budapest, Bucbarest, Sophia. Be is about 37, short,
well-fed (stocky), black hair straight ani trushed back, big flashy enile,
lots of vhite tecth (may be false), brovn eyes, very vell-dressed. fe has
an English tailor in Helsinki and appears each tine in a change of vardrobte.
Bo vears double breasted suits - Western style. His main sport is skiing.
He baa a strong poverful hanishake, piercing artificial glance, is very =
excitable, flirtatious, and the I-knowit-all type. Be loves to eat and
shakes hia head frou side to side vhen he talks. Be is abovt 5°3-1/2"
with glistening, clean-shaven skin, He looks like a Ukrainian peasant, but
his conversation implies thet he io vell-sducated and knovledgeable on
diplomtic business, Marxism, and current events involving the Soviet Union. His
khowledge of, life beyond the borders of the Soviet Union is meagre. Ris table

manners are fair.
o
10, Since the last ‘meting, (HEH net COLI once by accident on the street.
GOLUB vas alighting from a taxi vith fvo ladies, and upon catching sight of
Ob [HRCHE, he appeared flustered and in a lurry to git avay. Unable to avoid an
@ncounter, he morely asked what was nev ant sportively, but soft-tonguedly
seid, “I'll give you a bribe not tell ny vifa." ‘The two ladies epponred to

‘be Rusoians.

SECRET .
