# 104-10185-10176

## Page 1

104-10185-10176|

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DINFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

in ary manner lo so unsulsoti

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY. Cuba

SUBJECT

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/02300-65

Telephone Systen

In the. Direccion. DATE DISTR

: '2 June 1965

Genoral de Inteligoncia (DGI)

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA:

Backaround Use Only.

Do itor Fieproduce

DATE Of 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

washington,.D. C.

DATE ACQ. (February 19059,

THIS IS UNEVALUATED • INPOM

FIELD REPORT NO.

ATION.: SOURCE ORADIMOS' ARE DEFINITIVE: 'APPRAISAL ON CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCES

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until Apr1! 1964:

1.

In addition to the ordinary telophone systen in Havana, there

18

a government telephone system which uses the

exchange name PIZARRA,

connecting all officos of government organizations and government-

sponsored enterprises.

Each goverrment office or enterprise has

at least one PIZARRA telephon? which is distinct from the regular

telephone system.

In the Direccion General de Inteligencia

(coneral Directorate of Intelligeno: - DGI) Headquarters.

there

1s a PIZARRA telophone controlled by Maruel PINEIRO Losada's

"N" building.

If ans member

2.

the PIZARRA exchange, he ray alther state lis requirements to:

VidalJ.na,

who will make the call for him and report the inforna-

tion back when she has acgulred it, or go to

"N" building and

make

the call himself on the PIZARRA telephone. With de exception

Of PIREIRD's residence and office, where he has his own PIZARRA

telephone,

no other DGI offics ras a PIZARRA telephone.

There is

no directory for PIZARRA rumbers and lt is not a dial system, but

works through a central switchboard with opcrators; it is con-'

sidered secure.

The caller picks up the telephono and gets an

operator on the central PIZARRA switchboard; the caller asks for

the offlee to which he wishes to spcak, and.. if he knows, asks for

the person to whom he wishso to spirk.

tine

"M"

A DoI officer whose office

ne" (23-2555) and

bust lar Plantina lato "a" bullaing on the regular.

Each DGI office has a number of private. (as opposed to PIZARRA)

telephones.

In the Departamento

de Liberacion Nacional (National

Liberation Departmeet - Li),

rutside the "M" building headquarters,

for example,

there ars six

dials any number

telephones.

•From these telephones one

in the telephone directory,

private or a govern-

ment office number, direct.

For interaal calls within the DGI,

4

• S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREISY DISSEN

1

3

2

1

STATE

DIA

ARMY

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO *

(Nora, fiold distribution indicorod by "#"-)

NAvY

I&YS

AIR

INSA

I OCR

FEL

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

WHELCA

WHC/NO

1WE/5/R

WE, MADR

CILIN

3

HHC/RE

WHC/OS

RIDLAN

WHC/WAVE

TOTALA WHC 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CY 4; RID 1

TE/LANDHL

LE/BRITISHLI

L/WASHLIERL

IX-2350

NP (AUVTG-1)

CSCI-316 02300-

65

COOPOINATAN.

*

---

## Page 2

1830020609

3.

S-E..C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 2 ÷

CSCI-316/02300-65

an officer calling from the DGI private, telephone need dial only

into the switchboard and ask for an extension.

The Cuban telephune system iormerly usod a number-letter dial

code, but in 1964 letters had long been abolished and only

numbers were used. The number-letter equivalents are:

,- no letter

2 - B

"3:?

4 - I.

5 =A:

7 - U

9 -x

NO

S-E-C-R-E-T

FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

