# 104-10330-10102

## Page 1

1NGV. 28. 195,2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGION, D.C. 20505

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

=

The Honorable John Raymond Tunheim

Chairman

Assassination Records

Review Board

600 E. Street N.W.

Washington, D.C.

Dear Judge Tunheim:

(C) I have just received informal word of the

decisions the JFK Board made at its 17 November 1997

meeting. Most of the Board's

decisions--those relating to

the CIA presence in Warrenton, CIA's involvement in various

non-governmental organizations, and the details of CIA

• tunding of the Cuban Revolutionary Council-are very

velcome. I must, however, urge the Board to reconsider it:

decision to release documents in a form that would reveal .

the Agency's use of

(C)

We stand behind the position that we have

presented in writing and in discussions with the Board on

previous occasions.

I would welcome an opportunity to have

a senior CIA representative meet with the Board at your

convenience to explain why the Agency considers this

information so sensitive and to answer any questions you may

have.

Meanwhile, I offer the following summary of our

fundamental concerns.

(S)

CL BY:

CL REASON:

DECL ON:

DRV FROM:

Ý 2217297

1.5

(c)

X1

COV 2-87

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-0098).26.1997 12:52PM

NO. 226 = 1. 3

.. SECRET

Judge Tunheim

Clearly illustrates the purpose behind the Director's

statutory obligation to protect intelligence methods from

unnecessary and inappropriate disclosure.

(S)

/ -

(S)

continues to be an

important intelligence method. 'Its use is undiminished

since the 1960s, and it will remain essential for the

foreseeable future.

I urge the Board to reconsider its

recent decision insofar as it concerns the Ägency's use of

In this regard,. we will be

forwarding a more comprehensive memorandum addressing the

damage issue prior to the next Board meeting, and we would

like to offer the Board the opportunity for a personal

appearance by a senior CIA representative should that be

appropriate.

Sincerely,.

avid w. Carey

2

SECRET

---

