# 104-10120-10075

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10120-10075

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRAVEL ORDER

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

544-78/54

Ma penner clas

NAME

OFFICE PHONE

43200-10-200

AND SALARY

$10,000

CESTAT EAR

TITLE

OFFICIAL STATION

Officer

Fasten Eton, Deto

You

are hereby

authorized to

travel and incur

necessary expenses in accordance with

Agency

TINER 5-250 P

RegulationS 764-7-

(5-20)

Lars, France to Frankerl, vergen

Turines] toltstro, 3ypijand returi to astoretoo, D.û.

TAVOL tO FOTOgOLAI BERTLOTS EAV

te accommitsies 1n

suet

PURPOSE

SPECIAL PROVISIONS (INCLUDE APPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

M1I OTIST SAILOd TO BITTOTIE ILLINTATY SHOTA SLOTE. (CaTTO Added tO lESseTaty)

111 otter rortetons of artedni order remain In elSeETa. AVAILABLE:

I CERTIFY THAT FU:

OELIGATION PEFERT':.

4-3800-10-200

CHANCE TO ALICE :

-AUMORIZING OFFICER

COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

_J OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

_ THEATER CLEARANCE (IF OBTAINABLE)

Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL.

with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized.

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY

CERTIFICATION (BY PROCEBSING BRANCH)

Certified a True Copy. Signed

MODE OF TRAVEL (SPECIFY)

copy on file in Central Process-

ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

ALLOWANCE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE

necessary. Amended as indicated.

[''J"(A) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

(B) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO

THE GOVERNMENT.

BIGNATURE

THE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED IS EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENc¿.

IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION,

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PER-

SONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT TO WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS SET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS.

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD. INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED.

RETURN FROM POST

OF

DUTY ABROAD.

INCLUDING EXPENSES OF

TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONE YEAR OF EMPLOYEE.

TEMPORARY DUTY.

NAME AND TITLEDOE AUTHORIZINE OFFICIAL STYPEY

SI/adres

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

Tot to listenes

FORM NO.

33-27

OCT 1951

(2848)

(DATE)

Seçurity Information

---

## Page 2

14-00000

23500

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

SE-78/54

AFTED I L

TRAVEL ORDER

ANY NEVI.NT : 1

AFLOTMENT MOGOUNT SUMER T

4-3200-70-200

NAME

OFFICE PHONE

GRADE AND SALARY

I loward HURT, J5.

663

Gi35

£10,800

TITLE

Operations

OFFICIAL STATION

55019086

* OTICET

Fashin stan, D.û.

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses

in accordance with

Agency Regulations.

(5-4)

15-20)

(5-21)

Turkey En ankara, 12-13.

Traval to LOTSFOlD stations ER

PURPOSE

SPECIAL PROVISIONS (INCLUDE APPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

ThIs order encaded to anthorize Itineraty shorm above, (Cairo added to ltinerary)

11l other provisions of orteinal order rimin in effret.

I CERTIFY THAT F.."

":" AVAILABLE:

4-3200-10-200

CHAAOR TO ALIS.

COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

AUTESAEINS OFFICER

0D/P

J OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

I THEATER CLEARANCE (IF OBTAINABLE)

Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized.

$

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY

CERTIFICATION (BY PROCESSING BRANCH)

Certified a True Copy. Signed

MODE OF TRAVEL (SPECIFY)

copy on file in Central Process-

ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

ALLOWANCE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE

necessary. Amended as indicated.

(A) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

(B) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO

THE GOVERNMENT.

SIGNATURE

THE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED IS EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

SONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT TO WEIGHT

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE,

POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES

OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

IS AUTHORIZED.

RETURN FROM POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONE YEAR OF EMPLOYEE.

TEMPORARY DUTY.

OBE ON AUTHORIZINE OTRICIAL STYRRI

N

FORM NO.

OCT 1951

33-27

(DATE)

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

PURSEDES PARVOUS BOTTOME OR NOT TO-RO, 2AA 2A-0A, 225 E 2OVERIAZNT MINING ME A DEE

I U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICET 1952 - 290611

Security Information

19/90

---

