Aennnnn — o:
Tiéa-t0073-10113+ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 + —

. Cust] ca ae :
ts - VHS/9/
2 AAR C/

rT): Director of Special Investigations

Iuspectar General

USAT

Attention: Yr. Gilbert Kk. iavy
FROM: Deputy Director, Plang ae :

SUBJECI8: LING Lindsey

WEINER Heine Theoior
é

i. teference is made to the telephone request dated 24
Februs7y 1961, of Major Walone for information concerning
Lindsey LING aud Weing Theodor *NINER. The files contain
the foliowing tnfornation concerning the subjects of your
reques:.

2, According to information from
f LING wae cyhtacted in liste Augut oe io Santa fa,

the AxOres, by Elo; JUTJERREZ Manoyo, a Cuban Mationel, and
Rafal /probably Raf: "HERNANDEZ, 8 Cuban diplomat. In 1968
and 1959, GUTIERREZ was reliably reported, gther sources,
to have been a military supporter of Fidel TRO's revolution
and to be employed by CASTR poasibly as a G-2 agent. In
August 1959 he hed infiltrated the rauks of certain anti-CASTRO

congpirators snd delivered the leaders up to the Cuban Govern-
want. 7): a Breer

3. [ite urther reported in September 19¢0
that Lindsey LI aka LING Lind Sey, wv the manager of a Chinese
restaurant located at rua Valaverde 9, Wadrid, Spain, and that the
restaurant was oyned by a second (unidentified) Chinese, who vas
also supplying clothing to the United st personnel at the
Laje@ Sase in the Agor Theodor Het. TBNER, who had represented
the cloth firm in the Asores, yas reportedly arrested there in
December 1953 on a suspicion of egpionage, and wan, as of September
1960, reportedly in Sermuda, where LIKG was planning to go to
_Anveetigqate setting up another restaurant.

1

a

[eoreenaa Nipeesanenestie : ee eoceeeeeeeeeee g gereasenotseee erarericht
“> 4. “the “£1100 contain no further information concerning Sub-
jects than that which is already believed to be contained in your

files. a sad
. Pe A ef
cBCcI-3/764,141 i RID/CE: JWE/RQ/jrg [as 2-7/2)
: don; ORPHL29605, 13 Jan. 61
[ersppiaz7 "(Ie 12873), 15 Sept. 60 a
is- : . Q1o-

