# 104-10188-10036

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10188-10036

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

Chief, WH DIVISION

PROCESSING

ACTION

ISHA

10

iNTO

THOM

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUARECT

Project LIFSAT Reneral Request

ACTION REQUINLO RIFERIACLS

Action Required: As noted.

DESENSITIZED

VEr ESN 1218

FLADQUARTERS DISA

ABSTRACT

Forwardod horewith and under separate cover for Headquarters

processing 1a Subject reneral request fur Fi 190%:

As In the past the

renoval roquest consists of a comprehensive rovion of Project LIFEAT

for the pe:lol July 1962 through May 1963, and a project outline con-

sisting of parts I and II.

The funds roquested for FY 1964 total SUs 83,808, a reduction

of $s 15,192 from the amount approved for FY 1963.

•July 3963. throud June 1364 in the amount noted above.

It is requested that Projeot INFEAT be renewed for the perlod

Hillard i lurts

AB X

Rumove fros Project:

es classle cat long

JOB #

BOд!

Fold:

1) Attachment:

Project Renewal Request

Even Pages herewith

Odd Pages inder separaie cover

Distribution:

2 - Files

FI.--

IS CGPY

: =8.801911

S SECRET/

5"-6

DATE TIPLO

DATE CSIATCHED

27 May 1963

28 May 1953

DISPATON STARN ANO NUNGER

HNNA 21434

HEAOQUARTERS FILE MUMBES

50-6-32/1

---

## Page 2

DESENSITIZED

per ESH 43-48

PROJECI FEVIEN AND PROJECT OUTLINE (PARTS I AND II)

FRYPTONYM

LIFEAT

CASE OFFICER

JEREMY

NARCOS

STATION

MEXICO CITY

WILLARD C. CURTIS.

309 A ?.::95117

Fold:_

50-4-37/1

CS COPY

---

## Page 3

STORE /

PROVECT LIFEAT

PROJECT REVIE

I. Product of the Project

A. Soviet Coverage

Projoot LIFEAT has not provided coverage of the entire Soriet official

Installation in Mexico City since 22 June 1960 when Project LENVOY

assuned this responsibility.

This freed LIFEAT to provide, with 1t3

unilateral coverage, home phones of selected Soviet officials shich

could better support not only the Station's CE effort but alse other

Statior. operations against the soviet target.

In this extort, LIFEAT

covered the homes of four of the more active Soviet Intelligence

Officers stationed in Mexico during the reporting perlod. Samples

of the operational information provided by LIfEAT follous:

HNM-6479, 15 June 1962 (Mexican Winners of Soviet Scholarships

to Patrice Lanumba Unlversity)

HMMA -19826, 21 September 1962 (Transmittal of LIFEA? Report -

Vladilan I. SAMMHIN)

HMA - 19839,

21 September 1962 (Transmittal of LIFSA? Report -

Aleksandr O. SIDOROY)

HMMA-19879, 28 September 1962 (Aleksandr G. SIDOROY Tatiaya

SOKOLOVSKAYA)

HMMA-19996, 12 October 1962 (Soviet Personnel Assisted to Mexico

C1ty)

B. LIFEAT has remained a primary. source on this target throughout the

past project year.

Further, LIFEAT information 1s considered a

the Polish coverage are:

WNA-19500, August 1902 aRcHicK Telecon

HENA-20856,

15 March 10Ó3 (BONNAVE Status Report

IMMA -19552, 10 August 1962 (BEKNAVE-BECHICK

NM-7270, 14 May 1963. (Polish Ambassador to Nexico to Presen'

credentials to Halilan Government.

154-6-3711

CS COFY

PeE#RE MR.N.4.214334

---

## Page 4

C. Yugoslav Coverage

LIFEAT coverage of the Yugoslav official Installation In Mexico CIty

has provided

a wealth of information on the contacts, activities,

and

travel of members of that mission.

Since the Station's effort against

than on this target are as follows:

HMMA-19311, 10 July 1962 (Activity of the CP of Yugoslavia In

Mexico C1ty)

HAMA-19344, 13 July 1962 (Yugoslav Embassy Mexico CIty)

HYMA -19653, 24 August 1962 (11odrag RADOVIC)

HYNA-19689, 24 August 1962 (Yugosiar Travel)

ANNA -19973, 9 October 1962 (DjoraJe VUJIC)

HNNA -20016, 11 October 1962 (Gustav VLAHOV)

HMM-6993, 8 February 1963 (Projected Travel to Yugoslavia of

Emilio Portes 01l)

HMM-7005, 8 February 1963 (Plan of Adolfo Lopez Mateos to V1s1t

Yugoslavia)

NNM-7011, 12 February 1963 (Possibility of New Mexican-Yugoslav

Commercial Ald Treaty)

HNM-7106, 19 March 1963 (Yugoslav Project to Promote Economie

Helations with Mexico)

HMMA -21005, 29 March 1963 (ZdAnko HAS)

HMM-7310, 24 May 1963 (Plan for Tito to sign New Mexican-Yugoslav

Cultural Agreement During his Visit to Mexico)

D. Cuben Coverage

During the reporting period LIFSAT CovArage of the Cuban target was

directed toward

the support of KUBARK operations in this

fleid and was

not designed to provide positive intelligence.

LIFEAT covered a total

of 10 lines in direct support of operations in this fleld.

Most of

the product of

this area of operation was forwarded by cable to jWAVE

and Headquarters. Examples of pouch communications in this flold ares

I7A-20032, 16 October 1902 (AMSTRUT/LIFEAT Coverage

HNNA - 20308,

4 Decenber 1962 (AMSTRUT

L89LA-20425,

28 December 1962, (JOSe ORDOQUI)

Fry inst

---

## Page 5

BRONST /

3

E. American Coumunist Group in Maxico (ACGA).

As noted in past project revlens, most of the targets in this group

processed by then.

approximately 390 reels of take were passed to the local ODENVY for

their provessing. On 23 August 1962 the local ODENVY advised, "This

office feels the coverage mentloned is quite valuable and many usenul

leads are obtained from this coverage, particulaily with regard to

travel in and out of Mexico of American Communists who are in contact

wiüh individuals on whom coverage is raintained". Typical examples

of reporting based on LIFEAT coverage of tha ACGM are:

HR4-19A2Z, 10 Ausust 1962 (Albert MALi%, Noah SEBORER, Charles

IMMA -19678, 24 August 1962 (Albert NALTZ-Margaret MALIZ)

•HNMA-19771, 7 September 1962 (Albert MALTZ and Charles SMALL)

HIMA -20937, 22 March 1963 (Albert MALIZ, Noah SEBORER, Charles

HNNA-21299, 7 May 1963 (Charles SMALI, and Noah SEBORER)

F. Exile and Revolutionary Activitles

During the pust year this area of activity, in addition to the alrendy

noted Cuban coverage, accounted for the greatest percentage of tha

LIFEAT effort.

Rost of the information provided by LIFEAT in 1ts

coverage of targets in this area was not available irom other sources.

bhile Coverage has been provided on Spanish Republican, Guatemalan,

Costa Rican, and Nicaraguan exiles, we bulk of this product has

resulted from the coverage of Juan Jose AREVALO Bermejo and various of

his acquainiances, the

"take" boing forwarded to Headquarters and Station

Guatemala by either weekly cable surmarles or irmediate action cables

when warranted. It is noted that the coverage has been most rewarding

In the case of AREVALO and the recent coverage of judith FERRETO Segura.

Examples of productivity in this area:

1891-6452, 3 June 1962 (Contacts of Juan Jose ARFVALO in Mexico)

HMM-6799, 22 June 1962 (Activitles of Juan Jose AREVALO)

HMMA -19499, 11 July 1962 (Miario MONTEFORTY. Toledo)

HNi-€565, 13 July 1962 (Neezing Between Fernando Aguero and Juan

JOse ARE'ALO)

PNA-15505, 14 September 1762 (Coverage of Juan Jose AREVALO)

HM%. 0700, 9 October 1362 (Arrival In Mexico of Leading Arevalists)

1Z-6914, 25 January 1963 (Appointsent Setween Juan Jose AFLYALO

ard Adolfo LOPEZ Mareos)

---

## Page 6

SECRET/

HMM 6935, 5 January 1963 (Planned Travel of Juan Jose AREVALO

to Venezuela and Santo Domingo)

HNM-6936, 15 January 1963 (Travel of L10. Luis Jimenez de ASUA,

HMM-6937, 15 January 1963 (Pianned Meeting Between Juan Jose

AREVALO Bermejo and Luls jimenez de ASUA)

HMM-20835, 5 March 1953 (Confersation - Juan Jose AREVALO and

Sacha VOLMAN)

HMMA -21059, 8 April 1963 (Judith FERRETO Segura)

HMI1-7160, 9 April 1963 (Whereabouts of Juan JOse AREVALO)

HNMA-21087, 16 April 1953 (Judith FERRETO Segura)

HMMA -21338, 10 May 1963 (Judith FERRETO Secura)

IMM-7330, 24 liay 63 (Contacts of Angel MIDLAN In Mexico City)

G. Counter-Intelligence Information

Mexico City Station's Related Mission Diroctive places greatest

emphasis on operations in the CI/CE area.

LIFEAT was able to provide

a continuing worthwhile contribution in the attainment of the station's

objectives in this field.

Coverage Included that on AEGENERATE, Carlos

Humbert ILIESCAS (who acts in the capacity as covert liaison link

retween the CP and the Soviet Embassy), and a PCM safe house.

addition to the continuine operational support in the CI/CE l'leld, the

following Informational reporting was provided.

HMM-6625, 10 August 1962 (Soviet Scholarehiy for the Daughter of

David Alfaro Siqueiros, Imprisioned Conmuniat.)

HMM-667, 24 August 1962 (Mexican Delegates to Technical Movie Congress

111 Moscow)

HMMA -20140, 6 November 1962 (LISTEED-1. and 2)

MAIMA-20721, 14 February 1963 (AEGENERATE)

HMA-21109, 19 April, 1963 (Dr. Jesus LOZOYA S011s)

H. Operational Support and Leads Provided other Station Operations

uring the past project year lapent continued actively supporting th

perations of liexico City Station through the production of leads au

the providing of Information on selected targets in the manner avallable

enly through the use of a unilateral telephone tap operation. Inderd,

it 1s in this area, secure support to the Station's operations, that

LITENT is of greatest and unque value to the Station.

The following

1s a l1st of selected contributions by LIFSAT of operational support

and leads provided to the varlous Station Case Officers and Station

operations as a whole:

---

## Page 7

JALi

LIFEAT/Soviet: The valuable assistance which LIFEAT rendered Station

efforts in this area sas apiy displayed in its support of Siatión

assets mounting a technical surveillance operation targeted against

the home of a known Soules rielllionce officer stationed in Mexico

ity under official cover.

LISA? Informatian provided vital infor-

nation which enabled the Siiion to establish a pattern of action,

of both the family of the Scries officer and his neid.

This infor-

mation nado possible the seiiing of a time for una autual entry into

the target, and continuing areraço (Including live monitoring of the

target line immediately preceding the operation) by LIFEAT sado

possible a degrea of securist for this operation which would not have

been possible without the suppurt of a unilateral tap operation.

Further LIFEAT coverage has, la addition to giving informalan on

the dally activitles and corices of soviet officials, provided an ex-

-. cellent check on the contacis of three KUßARK controlled double agenta

with their Sovlet Case Officers. This coverage lns enabled the ruepoa-

sible Case Officer to guide his operations with Increased assurance

that his agents continue to be fully cooperative and under his control.

LIFEAT/Cuban: LIFEAT activiiies in this area were concerned primarily

with support to the AMSTRUT operation.

Coverage of relatives of

ANSTRUT -2 provided an excellen: "indow" Inio the uperation which

enables the responsible Case Ofilcers to nove with more certainty

and security in developingeiús operation.

The Case Officers Involved

considered the LIFEAT coverere an essentlal check on the activitles of

tie principals in the case mich vas especially saluable during the

inital stages of the operailoo.

Travel plans of ANSIRUT-2 provided

by LIFEAT Here also essential io the timing of the operation. Also

In the Cuban area LIFEAT Covergie of G-2 agent enabled the Station

to gain an insight into his coriacis and activitios, Further, recent

initiation of coverage of a Cubsa Commeroial Official Elves evlience

of producine, solid Information or comercial transactions and Mexican

Conneroial contacts of the Cubes Government.

---

## Page 8

14-00000

o trg

LISAT/Mugoslav, In addition to lhe usual Inforrailor concerning

tre YUgOBlaV

officials and their dally contaclo and aotivitios,

LIPiAT provided leads which could pay off in future operationa.

Oris example

war a lead w: 1c:. revealed that a diplomatio courlor

nould be travelliné alone and taking a new travel routo whilo

carrying an official pouch.

dith dila early marning, the Station

nas ablo to plan an operation to provido access lo this correspon-

dorice. Althour: Headquariers finally veroed lila particular oper-

ation, suffsclent early warning was ¿ivon by LIttAl so that tho

operation could save been cartled out: Another examplo of this

r5re of lead was the data availablo from LIttAl coveraço that a

new location nas being sougit for the Y'goslav Entasny, and uhich

ejecillo iocations vere under consideralion. Arned with tila Informa-

¿ion the station hi.a been able to mako a ceciloal casing of one of

the prospective sites and obtain information nocessary for entry listo

the other sites.

LIFEAT/ExIlo: As noted previously, LIFEAT covarago of the exilo

activitles mas the single major effore by LIftAt during the project

year.

In pArZICUlar, LIFEAT COVerage Of JUAN jOBO AREVALO fUrTOJO,

atlet Included lenetry periods of "livo-nonstoring", on vocasion

calied for coverago of five 11r.08.

Cabled surmarles of LIFEAT

Information Here provided Headquarters and Statlon Quatemala.

It

1s belloved that the importaice of this LIViAl coverajo on not be

stressed too much.

LIFEAT Coverago of a Costa Rioan Communist exilo

reeldone In Mexico City has load to a wealth of opurational leada

Including the discovery of this person's envolvement li a Cormunist

wasine nechanita.

AlSO, LIFEAT WAN

active In covering tho Syanish

republican exile community in Mexico City durine, the GPIDEAL V1B1E

tO tAxICO, LIMA: coverage in this case man considered nocossary

lo roveal Irmediately any renewal of an earlier planned altonue on

ina isse of an diart official by one ercup of the Republican prilos.

Ultleerely, LIFFAI revenled so departure from Maxioo of tho of tre

ringleaders in tre plot.

his present acilvilles.

produc: from thia line las reverlod an effort

by a group of this individual's itlends to dincredit the senlor CRACIO

official in Mexico.

Early warrins by LIFEAT has made possible the

preperation of counter action (see INMA-213(4). LIFRAT has also

provided coverage of a suspeciet RIS support agent. This coverage

had provided the back round saierial necessary for checking on the

activiiles of this suspect agent.

c'ontinuing LItFAl reporting on tho

American Communist Group In dexico (ACGM) has provided ODENVYrsich

Ereat quantitles of Information on alIvities, or loftlet friends of

---

## Page 9

SENNET /

of the ACON Including their travel plans to Mexico and in sono cases

Cuba.

As nocod 11l paragraph I. E, siDove, tie local office of DENVY

considers this coverage

"quite valuable"

As also nolod in. provious

razoNals; LIFEAT ability to élve the Interested caso officors a check

on activo and former aponte inoreases the security of prosent opera-

clans and provides erostor seourily for lone term assets who may havo

been In contaat with non terminatod agenta.

H. Conclusion

It is the opinlon of tho Mexico City Station tial the support providod

other Station operations, the CINCE InformatIon and loads, and tho

ability.of the unilateral LIFFAT opAration to cover senslilvo raryors

without rovealing Station Interest to the llalson forcon, woll Justify

cho expenditure of funds, tlmo, versonnol and security rlak. As 1t has

been noted in the past, that even mith the starson's envolverent in cha

parallol, bit 1101800-2100 LIENVOY oporatlon, a chango in attitudo by

the presont local sovernment administration or a change in covernment

arministrations vould ond NUPARK parelo1pation in lia! llalaos projoot.

For that reason, LItEAT.. In addition. to maintaining its prosont hoavy

coverago, must bo availablo to once again undertake coverago of tho

official soviet and Croch official tarkets in Mexico Clty.

Therefore,

LIFEAT's present orientation, though toward supporting Station operations

and CI/CE mission rather than toward targets which would provide positivo

intelligenco, leavos it readily avallablo for rocall into the soviet-

Czech coverage.

It 1s the Station'a firm opinion that the LIFEAT

projeot provides a subatantial and vital contribucion in tuillinont the

several priority oufeatives of uho Station's Relaleil Mission Directive.

I.

There l8 attached a l1at of the liais produced from LIfTAT provided

mnierlad durine the period July 1902 Crouch May 1903, as a by-procluot

of the projoot's primo responsibility of providing suppore to station

sperations.

II. Prograss of the Operation

the oojeatives of the Lifcar project are of a continuini, nature and

are therefore not considered

for fulfillment during, any given period of

For this reason percentage fleuros as to complotion of project

objectives canno! Do drawn, lionever, an Inalcailan of the coverage

prosided in morting toward sulilllent of the objectives con to noted

In that approximatoly 12,500 pages of raw text more produced in the

period July 1i6l thrours April 1903. LINSAT has beeu in dully opera-

110s turing the revier perlod with: the average number of lines covored

per sunth being 19, and a high in October lida of 25 lines covered.

tic.

---

## Page 10

SHORE / 2.99.

8

III. Planning for the Future

As was indicated at the time of the last project ronoval, LIFEAT hopes

to remäin uncamnitten to coverages that requiro the expenditures of

a freat portion of LIfTAT resources but provido coverago of but one

Mili continue to enjoy treater flexibility in tho eruloyment of 118

assets, esjeclally 1n Uhe areas in which the Station does not vish

¿o raveal 11s Intorsat or operations to the liaison forces involved

In the LILiNOY operation.

V. Expendituros

Approval for renonal of Project LIFEAT was granted 8 August 1962 for

FY 190j 1n the arcent of $49.000.00.

The proposed budget for FY 1964

da broken down in the astached Field Project Outline Reneral Request,

Pare II, and totals ty, 303.

VI. Status of Catalinents

Miere ars no emmiteenis other than those noted in the project outline

submitted herewith and in the individual contracts and oral asteementa

(nemoranda of oral agreements were forwarded as necessary) of the

YArIOUS LIFEAT perronsel.

---

## Page 11

SEARET / 1

Even with the operational emphasis of the LIFEAT Project being

on Station operational support, 1t 1s thought significant to

Inciudo a li'st of HM's produced through 'liay 1963 (approxinately

10 manths of the project year) as a by-product in the LIFEAT

operation.

HMM

1a02E3a3a

18088358853066386

HNM

7160

7214

IMM 7270

HIS:

7310

HAM

7330

---

## Page 12

PROJECT LINEAT

FROJECT OUTLINE, PART I

1. Area of Operations

Inis operation 18 run from Mexico City Station and 1s concerned Mith targoto

locaiod willn Mexico City.

2. Purpose

The purpose of this project 18 to provide, untlaterally, dally information

on the acilrities of official foreign installations in Mexico and the personnel

thereor, as well as coverage of the actluitles of seloctod Lalirituals and

soups in response to both Siation needs and Headquartera requests.

Presently,

LIFEAT stresses flexibility of coverago with suppore of Station operationa and

CI/CE coverago receiving tie greatest tuphasis.

3. Background

PrOjeOt LIFEAT Mas originated on 3 October 1930 as a unilateral celophone tap

...oporation...Actuat-inttiatlon of operations under this authority occurred

an 18 January 1951, and the operation has run continuously son esr: dato.

The project was opened with the installation of a single tap and has etown

In the past eleven years to courage of as many as warty llaes in a elven

The LIFEAT Project is a unilateral operation cueplacely Independent from any

lialson arrangement.

It 1s staffed by KUBARK contract esployees with the

sajor1ty of personnel being indigenous controlled agents.

During, the past thelve years, Project LIfEAT has produced sore chan si, 000

(ostimato) pages of operational and Intelligenco infomation in diract support

of Moxice City Stalon'a specifio objectives, and contribured saierially to

the Intolligence gathering activitles connected mich the Soriei-satellite

Bioo and nore recently with the Cuban representailves In Mexico, In addition.

alrEAi ins veen us cunsiderablo value 1a santionine the artlustlos of tie

American Cosmunist Group in Mexico (ACGM), as voll as the se:trilles of tho

exile Eroups and local Comunists.

Hith the LIE!NOY's assumption of coverage of the Sovier and Cechoslovaklan

• offloial instaliations in July 1960, LIFEAT ascels were released from cantimiog

coverage of these two targets.

These assats were then esployed in direct

ripport of station operations--a role ideally suliod lor a unilateral operation

uch as LILSAT, and extremely important to the security and success of Statlo

operations.

---

## Page 13

5083

11

s. References

=.

b.

I9?'A-19129, 1 June 1962 (LIFEAT Renewal Request for FY 1963)

1924-10003. 31 July 1962 (LIPEAT ProjeCt Ronoral)

M72A-19641, 21 August 1962 (LIFEA" Progresa Repore, July 1962)

d.

•.

19Z'A-19943, 20 September 1902 (LIFSAT PrOSTOSS REDOTE, AUSUSE 1962)

A7A-20156, 8 Novenber 1962 (LIFTA"' ProyTeis Repori, Soptonbor 1962)

1DNA-20261, 28 lovender 1962 (LINEAT PrOETOSS PepOrE, OCtOber 1962)

IARiA-20457, 4 January 1563 (LIFFA: PTUETOSA RepOrI, November 1962)

b.

•IAMA-20531, 18 January 1963, (LIFFAT PrOSTOSO ReNOTE, DoCember 1962)

1.

8 MArCh 1903 (LIFEAT PrONTOSA ROMUTE, JANUATy 1263)

HM'A-21010, 12 AprIl 1963 (LIFFAT PrOETOIO RepOrE, fobruary and

March 1903)

5. Objocilves

a. Po Identity Sorior and satollito Incolliyenco personnol in Nox1oo

ari to provide

informacion on lha naturo and exient of their clandestino 1ncol11-

conco and propaganda adelvilles in Mexico.

To colioer, Informacion of tho satollite offlotalo both as to 1h01r

accIulllos so Moll as IniormaLion of UOrashlo naturo.

To suppori apocillo Siallon operations, aspecially in llo recruitenent,

defecison, Carmundot Party ponocration ans coutor-1ntol11çen0e flolds.

• To collodt insommation on prominen: Mexican comminiels usa pro.

Concunsato and their actsvizios.

To colloer Intoracion on prominent Corrundalo, uther ulan Maxiorn,

socivo in Maxico, and lo Idoneisy dica ail dicir associatos an nocluselos.

To provido coverare of carroco o8 opportuniti in Moxsco Clly in

muppore of Station obsective Na Hualquartere s ragunsta.

E. TArEEES

For objectires a aud lue

a. Selor! Sorlet Intelligonoo officero hore phones.

b. Sciocied Sasellite ofttotale offsa: and hano plionor.

263

...•..

---

## Page 14

14-00000

95.70

12

Intelligence personel.

salactad privato phones being usod by know and suspected Sorollito

For objective o8

seloctod tolophones as requested by Stallon Caso OffIcora In

suppart of their golne and/or projected operations.

For objautivo de

Consunsets.

Tolophore conversationa true rosidences of sendor Coccundato and pro-

FOr ODJOORIVA A8

roading el photo enversations oa residencos of known diarican Cormentala

For objective le

exile one or or cantos in to atones or ericad of pronene

For objoceIve it

Tolophone convorsallons uniah on do monitored tron largora of

opportunity.

7. Taska

Caco OffIcor - Jerosy L. MIARCOB

D. Maintain snaronors of and pruviin airection in all mallore percaining:

' Lo Via ovoraLianal snagononE of tie LItTAT Project.

Prorido

sulcanco and daj-co-day suparvision of epocíal oporatlonal

PRADOS Of LIFTiAT COVOTAEOS.

1. Coondinato Information recolved tron to LIlfAT coverago vich octor

Stailan operations,

and soordinale as nocessary nill the stalion parsonnes

the jarallel linor operacion.

t мрі

---

## Page 15

SECAST /1

Ce. Maintain LIFFAT capab1l1tles for nounting operations agalnst

targets of opportunity.

personnel Intain a love done operations.

Maintain supervision over kasehouses, equipment, and training of.

B. Coordination

Information producod by LIFEAT, primarily a Station operational

support assor, 13 closely coordinated with other operationa of the Moxloo

City station.

No operational coordination 1a requirod with any other

goographical. aros, but thoy are advised of any information produced by LIfEAt

which may bo of intorest to then.

Project ID100 misch supports the principal "outside" Case OffIcer,

David M. WILSTED, 1s effoctod in coordination with Project LIFEAT.

0..

alosely coordinaied bermoen the responsiblo Caso Officers of both projoots.

particularly relatine to the division of coverage botreen the two operacions.

choroby assurina that the unilateral LIFENT operation Mill not bo erlangered

by cho indigenous personnel of the LIENVOY operacion.

Although there 1s no diroct connection with the recently actrunted

LINAX oporazIon of tha Merida Baso, LIFFAT experiorce in unllaleral teleuhono

cap procedures and espocially security aul processine of information, nidod

COB Morida in sorting up the LIHICK operallon.

9. Personnal

a, Career and Contract Agents

(1) David M. WILSTID (201-009195), principal "outside Caso Offscor.

(2) Nagne C. IT'ABAIO (201-255095), nutride assistant to David M.

WILSTED.

101.

DEAFAST Mas Introduced Into te LIFFAT operation in November

His OA weT amended 14 Novenber 1961 to provide for his use

In chis operacion, lils tour in lexico las recently been extendod to

Noventor 1964.

(3) IIEMITIACE-8 (201-111616) was Introduced into the LIFFAT oporation

as baciap recturician to wILsMaD.

He was ecelvoly employed in the

technical phase of the operation during the home leave period of

WIISTED In December. 1962 and January 1963, Since LEMIRAUS-8 continues

with his normal functions under MICHARITY, he will not be funded under

LIFEAT except in the ovent of HILSTED's prolonged absance or incapacity.

EDMIRACE-L's DA wAs amended 7 April 1962 to allow his use in LIFEAT.

i...

---

## Page 16

SURET /

D.

1(4) Carol K, ZINSMEISTER (201-117968). LIFEAT processor/

tranglator and forter basehousekeeper who can be recalled

for temporary reassignent to basehousekeeping duttes.

(5)

OlEs A. PARKINIK (201-117978), LIFEAT processor/translator.

al for LIFSA: employment datod 28 September 1954,

Fleld Agents

(1) LIPSUD-1, DA grantod 17 October 1950 (201-182707)

(2) -115500-2. 01

granted 14 August 1951 (201-117571)

3) LIFSUD-3, OA granted 14 December 1953 (201-117976)

LIFEXD-4, OA granted 1 October 1953 (201-117743)

LI-EUD-S. OA granled 16 December 1953 (201-117744)

LIFEID-6, Seo OLEA PARFINIX - Contract Agent seation above

LIFSUD-T. OA grantod 21 October 1958 (201-117980)

LIFEUD-8, OA granted 31 Narci: 1955 (201-119521)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(12)

(13)

(14)

(15)

(16)

(17)

(18)

W:XD-9. OA granted 27 April 1956 (201-117984)

LIF7D-10. On granted 13 September 1956 (201-117085)

LIFFD-11, Oi granted 21 August 1956 (201-113595)

LIFELD-12,

franted 6 August 1956 (201-113569)

LIFEUE- 13,

OA

tranted 13 Septenber 1956 (201-115833)

LIFEUD - 15,

OA

granted 19 January 1957 (201-126315;

LI-SUD-iG,

OA

granted a July 1958 (201-222786)

WIFELD-19, OA grantod 2 October 1957 (201-185370)

WFEWD-19, DA sTanted 18 May 1960 (201-262488)

LIFEUD-22, (formerly LILILLY-l), amendrent of Ol requestod

24 April 1962 (201-288248)

(29)

LIFMD-23, (formerly LILILLY-2), amendmont of at roquestod

24 Apr11 1962, (201-305604)

(20) .LIFEUD-24, OA grantod 24 September 1962 (201-119525)

(21)

(22)

LIFELD -25, On Eranted 3 January 1963 (201-332335)

LIFElD-at, POA granted, dA requestod 31 Ootober 1962 (201-332335)

During the past project

year, the following personnel were dropped

(1) LIPELD-19 (201-117972) and LIFEUD-17 (201-195370). This couplo,

having experienced a number of apparently insoluble marital problens, mutually

decided upon separation and eventual divorce, Since treir use in LIFEAT (as

basehousekeepers) would not be possible witi the breakup of thielr hume, thay

were teraina:ed as or 30 September 1962.

Termination was effected on a

mutually agrerable basis and no security problen has arisen to dato, nor la

1...

Hen St.

---

## Page 17

1.00000

15

(2) LIFEUD-22 (201-288248) and LIFtUD-23 (201-305604). son and

mother, presently occupy lie LlEHOSE photo basehouse and were never

directly envolved in LIFEAT type work.

"It had been originally planned

to use LibROsE basenouse as tie terminus for the LIFEAT MKTRAP

rechnical operation targetod against the official LIERODE mission in.

Mexico city.

LIPFUD-22 and 23 were to have been the basehousekeepers

for this operation.

When 11 was found that the MKTRAP operation could

enot be routed to unia basehouse becauso of tealinical consideratlons,.

the base nas enployed as a photosurvelllanco base largoted against

the LIbRODE mission. Since unis operation 18 not cornooted mith

LIFEAT operations or personnel, there uno agente wili no longer

be carried under the LIttAT projoct..

(3) LIFEUD'27 (201-332331) was frantod a POA on 20 September 1962

for use as ani alcortiate LIFfAT baschousekeeper. Homever, due to a

chango of plans envolving agents's avallability for LIFFAT work,

she was nover recruited and this cloarance was cancollad on 25

January 1963.

10. Operational Clearances

3ee Seotion 9 above.

11. Cover

There are no chançes in the cover of personnel who have beon proviously

employed in the LIFEAT oporation.

Witt, the new agents employed since cho.

last project renewal, cover 1s as follows!

a.. .LIFEUD-24 has natural cover of manceer of a small profitable

medicine distributoratilp in Mexico Clty.

subjock's office

hours and actiúftles are therefore not sorutinized by a superior

and subject can devote the necessary uime to his LIlFAT dutles and cover

hls LIFEAT salary Mithout difficulty.

b. LIFEUD-26 has natural dover of housewifo (wife of LIFFUD-24) and

She performs her LIFEAT duties only in her home 'LINEAT

mother.

ANNEX VI).

•. LlrauD-25 has natural cover of the wife of a retired businossman

(LIFEUD-4). A review of LIFEAT personnel files during the pagi

year revealed she had been Ineluded on her husband's clearance

request in 1953 but had never been granted clearance in "her

own right".

This was corrected when on 3 January 1963 LIFEUD-25

was granted a full on.

Fe-!

then?"

---

## Page 18

16

12. Contait and Communications

Dalis contact is saintäined between tie case ütricor and the agents employod

In the project. These contaets arg sadö in a clandestine manner with varying

pattems. astablished for car plikups, foot contacus, and emergency meetings.

Pre-arrangod a1gnals.ans emplojed'in

setting and accompliahing the neetings.

When heavy or bulky material li to be passed, meetines are heid at night.

Entrance to the basehouses by other than the basehousekoepers is nado only

on the basis of strict nocessity; such as nood for equipment repair, installation

sor new lirio coveragos, or lina coverage out ofs.

As to agent recontact arrangements, liore is little possibility that projeot

WIFEAT could continue

to oporato in 11s present form in the event Mexico nould.

bocomo a "deniad area" polico stato.

It 18 possible, however, that cortain

of the presently employod agonta could be converted to straight FI funotions

or support agont roles. Recontaot oan bo. effeated by mentioning that the

person recontacting the agent 1a a friend of "Ingeniero Stanley" (tillo used

by David M. WILSTED wIth LIFFAT Indirenous

agents) and mentioning the LIFEAT

work the agent proviously ongaged in Witl, "Ingoniero Stanley", (This recontaot

method has been laid on with the LIftAT indigonous agents.) Emergenoy

communication procatures have been developed which apply to the present

operational enviorment, and are reviered perfodleally by both WILSTED and

the responsibile Case Officer and are updated as necessary.

Telephono contact concerning the project and with the spents 18 kept to a

minimum.

Pre-arranged open code 1s used for phone conversations between

Caso Offloers and agents.

These systems of contaot and communloation appear suitablo for the projeat

and function adequately fron the security and ulllity standpoints.

and times of moetings ars raviewed perlodically ard are changed frequently to

decrease une possibility of arousing the suspicions of the residents of aroas

In which meetings are hold.

13. Control and Motivation

Control and motivation aro primarlly based on two factors: 1do0l0gy and

financial gain.

A secondary factor 18 lie lear of reprisal from the local

police should discovery occur.

14.

Security

During the past project jear thore were no incidents which were bejond the

capability of the personnel Immediately Involved to Isolate and remedy

teleptione work crews approaching a basehouse

Iines running to that basehouse.

=:.=

---

## Page 19

14-0000

SEGRES

contrals have boin removed by the central's workmen, but these re óf no

danger to the operation inless a füll Investigation l's made of one of

these unusual connections.

During, the past project jear no such investigation

has been undertaken, and no suspicion of the LIFEAT linesen has been revealed

to date.

The greatest dangers faced by LIFEAT in the past year centerod on tuo

developments, 1)

the continued efforts of the telephone company toward moderni-

zation

of the Mexico City telephono system and 2) the Investigation launched by

tha goorotarla do Comnicaciones y Obras Publicas (SCOP) to deternino 18 the

tolephone company. has not been providine maximum possible service to Moxioo

Cluy residents by holding prom use certain "spare pairs" of every cable and

distribution box:

on bag, holine ben i

In the first development (which has been in process for tha past son years

and was so noted li part project renewals) the most noteable incidents which

offoCt LIFEAT security are the Installation of new underpround cables ro-

placing the old

overhead telephone wires (thereby reducing accens to target

11nes and tap routing lines) and the Institution of a more efficient system

to keep track of dally assionments of tho

(thereby

_reducing-the nobtlity 'of the tuo LIFEAT Ilnèmer and one

I. WIFEAT

has managed to sorewhat negate the first of these by

line can be completely concealed when it 18 run from the tciminal of tho

tolephone cable to the bagehouse 1tself.

wires to mask the presence of the tap lead-in lines, there load-in Ilnes

become more readily noteú in casual inspection by telephone company crews.

The limiting, of the mobility of the LIFEAT linemen has not set interferred

serlously with LIFEAT socurity or efficlency.

• number of ideas have been tried to bypass this problem but

as yet no satisfactory solution has been found. LIFEAT personnel are continuing

their attempts to negate this problem, too.

which is presently beine pursued with mor

First 18 the problem that the SCOP crews have wilhoilty to enter

connection in these boxes to see 1f they are actually in use, On one occasion.

they have rung back on a "spare pair" which was in use by LIfEAt to routo a

aid citra.

---

## Page 20

Another problei, and in the lone run a creater danger to LIPEAT,.

the distinct-possibility that SCoP will force the lelephone company. to.

use the "spare pairs" for providing service to new subscribers..

would eliminate LIFEAT use of these pairs to route;

lap lines to 1ta

basehouses, In effect leaving LIFEAT with no way to set the tap trom

the

to the basehouse.

Even the posslbility

of SCOP insistance on only a reductioni in the number of "spare pairs", held

from use by the telephone company could affect LIFEAT adversely, sinco this

would reduce the options LIFEAT has in routine 1ts tap lines.

However, until

the Invostigation is comploted, and no f1rm estimato of a target dato 18

presently known, the real danger of LIFEAT can only be speculated upon.

LILEUD-l 1s alerted to obtain the recoumendations of SCOP when fiven to

the telephone company and all efforts will be mado b: LIFEAT personnel to

other nogate or take advantage of any recommendations which aro placod

into practico.

It should be noted at tills point that the LIFEAT operation could "blow"

at any time through any of a large number of security dangers LIFEAT

faces in 1ts dally operation as a unilateral effort. LIFEAT, personnel. aro...

trained and experienced in taking whatever action 1s neceisary to negato

or lossen tho damaço as necessary, but 1t li true that there can occur a

situation which wil "blow"' the operation despite the best efforts.

15. Training

Initial training of new personnel and continuing refrasher training for

the experienced personnel aro handled primarily by the "outside" case offloer,

David M. WILSTED.

Minor repair and maintenance of equipment as well as

emergency security procodures.ars stressed and continually reviewed with

..

the agents.

16. Equipment and Support

With the funds requested for this purpose in last approved project renenal,

¡FEAT audio and dial tapo recorders were replaced during the pasi year.

Except for the usual problems discovered in equipment which has been

provided that there 1s. no radical shift necessary in the tap techniques

presently employed in the operation.

17. Timetable

LIFEAT has been in continuous operation since 1ts

Inception in January 1551,

and as a Vital Statian operational support asset, 'it. 1s planned to continue

1t Indefinitely.

...d..

---

## Page 21

4-00000

SEGNET / K

PROJECT LIFEAT

PROJECT OUTLINE, PART 11

18. Estimated Costs

The following are the estimated costs for Fiscal Year 1964. All figures

are U,S. dollars per jear (US $1.00 equals 12.50 Marxican pesos).

Changes

In estimated costs for particular 1tens will be noted. These refleot not

only the continued inflationar; trend in the fiexican economy, but also

the LIFEAT operational emphasis of support to Station operations.

In th1a

"latter casè particular line coverage 1s of shorter duration, causing

greäter expense in installation and removal of tap lines and crosses and

frequent shifting of baschouse sites.

In the agent salary category total expense in contract agent salaries vas

Increased somewhat (due to raises granted DRABAND and ZINSMEISTER during

the past year) and reduced considerably in the fleld agent category (due

primarily to termination of three well pald agents.) Overall funds

requested for FY 1964 total $83,805 compared to $49,000 granted for use

In FY 1963 -- a reduction of $15,192.

A graai part of this reduction vas.

possible by programing no new equipment purchases for the coming year

(see paragraph 16 above).

a. Salaries

(1) Career and contract agents

David N.. WILSTED (CS-13 equivalent)

no expenses included in Project

LIFEAT as he is supported entirely

by project minoo.

Wayne C. DRABANI

LIEMFACE-& (since this agent 1s used

in LIFTST chly in emergency situa-

tion, In the event of WILSTEN's absence

and is actively employed by MKCHARITY,

he will continue to be funded under

that project

Carol N. ZINSMEISTER

Olga A. PARFINIK

Additional translator/processor to

be recruited.

6,000

6,400

4,500

3,600

$20,500

maartet-er

---

## Page 22

20

(2) Field Agents

LIFEUD-1

LIFEUD- 2

LIFBUD-3

LTFEUD-&

LIFEUD -5

6,500

2,800

2, 000

2,200

3.650

GIFEUD-6 (sea Olga A. FARFINIK 1r

contract agent section above)

LIFEUD-7

LIPEUD-8

LIFEUD-9

2.700

2,200

LJFEUD-10 (No salary)

WFEUD-11 No salary

LIFEUD-12 (No salary)

LIFEUD-13 (No salary)

LIFEUD-15

LIFEUD-16

WIFEUD-18 (No salary.)

LIFEUD-19

LIFEUD -24

LIFEUD-25 (No salary)

LIFEUD-26

Two basohouse keepers to be recrulted

845

1,585

1,500

1,500

1,000

2.500

Christmas bonus (in accordance with

local custom, which amounts to one sonth's

pay) and gifts where necessary.

4, 100

37.880

o. Basehouse rentals

Annex II

Arnox III •

Annex IV

Annex VI

Annex VII

Annex VIII

Annex IX

c. Basehouse utilities and expenses

d. Allowance for usual rental increases

when lease renered

2,000

2,688

2,760

3,000

1,728

3,012

2,880

2,000

1,200

21, 328

CS COPY

5i -é-3011

EitCLE/: 499-21434

---

## Page 23

4-00000

SIDE!

- 21

Local purchase replacement parts,

itro, expendable supplies (as paper

products, typewriter ribbons, and

emergency-special equipment,

-

f. Transportation

MV 2455 used by DRABAND

LIFEUD-2,. car rent

LIFEUD-T, oar ront

LIFEUD-8, car rent

LIFEUD-5, car rent

ZINSHEISTER mileago

500

400

400

4400

300

300

2,300

Miscellaneous ops expenses

(includes loss of rental deposits,

bribes, expenses in moving and

setting up basehouses, and expenses

Involved in special coverage of

targets of opportunity)

1,000

GRAND TOTAL

83.808

NOlE: For the coming project year Station has not included, as was done

In past, a fund for extraordinary expenses involved In agent terminations

The ordinary costs will be absorbed by the project.

occur, Headquarters will be requested to amend Project LIFEAI for the

necessary amount.)

All terminations of Indigenous personnel will be in accordance with Mexican

law and will Include lump sun separation secilement, transportation and

moving, expense payments, and any salary due at the time of the termination.

69997

trialitie.

CS COPY

5: -6-35%

---

