# 104-10216-10059

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10216-10059

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

• DISPATCH

DASSIFXATION

PROCESSINS ACTION

MARD HA NOURIS

ню.

Chier 01.8171104, Panama CLtY

42P

ANM

ArOM

Chias or itatione Managua

Ra Le Neatera Healephore Division

DACROFUS

NATION TOURED. WITNES

TIRCOS ON ShOLORO SELIKSBERG and I. ITUIng DAVIDSON

TO DEIDOES HOUNTO

SORT QUAITED DUE

¡CAN NUDGE DADDURES

AGTION BEQUIRRD:

REL BREACH

:

For your inforkation

HZPA-17656, 26 June 1969

1.

Checks of Headquarters' records revealed the

following on Sholozo GLIKSBERG:

A. Information received August 1968 ITOn INGOLD:

GLIkSBERG vas appointed the Chairsan of President-elect

ARIAS' Comiss10n on Donestic and International Connerco.

A INGOLD Comment notes that this appointent may bave been

made for the purpose of demonstrating to tho jerish comunity

1n Panses tbat AlIAS bore ita seabors no 111 vill.

GLIESBERG

ras describod as a businesaran with interests in plywood and

Bachinery inports. According to GLIKSBERG, he was nased

ARIAS!

personal advigor on econonic and Iinancial natters,

BI? GLISBIRG iplied that he had nunerous contacts in

Fashington.

B.

Inforsation receivad Septenber 1968 IPOS INBRGO:

GAKSBIG 18 a Panananian businessuan and philologist sho

forBerly represented ARIAS' interesta in tobacco and coffes.

Dus to his foreign languago ability and expert knowledgo 11

banking and finance he vis

(at tluo of writing) a trusted

advisor of ARIAS', at ABlAg' bequest.

Iden

Source a 180

reported at this time that ARIAS and GLINSBING seened to bave

a very friendly relationship. Thia Source made the following

coRRents about GLIESBERG:

•. I very snooth, vell-educatod

and articulate usn... He speake excellent English and sounds

L1ke an Israoll uho night bave received part of bis education

In the United Statos...

CELES MISTREATE TO

ATTACHMENT: - Iden u/s/c

-

DISTRIBUTION:

• &1 - cos, tanane City w/att u/s/c

3 - CО8, Managu

w/att w/s/c

DEFANON STANCE MTO MURDER

201-41580

DAtE

CAUSE RATION

BRCRKT

we Ripod - 8 July 1069

(201-41581

DRIGINATENE

-

-T.

wilkerson

san

15422

OffICE SYMBOL

(DORDIMATING

DATE

"'!

OFFICIA'S MANI

C/WH/2/P

NH/2/N

(In t5c)

1 - chrono

1 - 201-41581 /

1 - wh/2p

AHM =J

A3

IN X

i is

Er 3

-PD

TEr

53 USE PREVIONAEEMON

MNG. 11-00

CHFIA STIBOR

C/AH/2

DAlE

ofue"

unn C. MURR

Kit.

1801

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

UASSIRATION

SBCBRI

DISPATEM SPACELA AND AUDIOSI

HZPT-7469

C. Information rocolved June 1969 frOD LIGOLD:

German Ambassador ROSTER ras approached by GLIKSBERG vitb

a request to arrange

a visit in Germany for Goneral TOBRIJOS.

According to GLIKSBERG, TORRIJOS had been invited by the

French Governnent to visit France on his return fron Israel.

"In Ambassador ROSTER's Forde, this is the sane chantago ve

experienced with GuIkSBERG last year on beball of Arnulio

ARIAS.

The Inplication here. is that GLIkSBERG now an 8dv1s01

to TORRIJOS i8 playing France and Germany againat one another

to obtain tha bost deal for TORRIJOS. "

(Headquarters Comment:

KOSTIR 1s referring to the offers of TV systens fron these

other countries to Panana.

Traces reveal the following Information on I. Irving

2.

DAVIDSON:

A.

Fros DIRECTOR-19472,

15 June 1965 (not sent

Panasa City):

Isadore Irving DAVIDSON (201-41581), born

19 January 1921 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. There are

VOLUALDOUS

Headquarters' traces on subjoct.

He is regiatered

with the Justice Departsent as an agent for Halti, Ecuador,

Nicaragua,

and Israel.

Is a seaber of the National PrOss

Club and well known in lashington circles.

He enjoys a close

relationship uith Drew PEARSON and otber newsmen.

Subject

18 described as an aggressive international businessuan tho rould

probably participate in any business proposition for a comnigelon.

However, he alvays protects himself when dealing with representa-

tives of other countries by reporting any proposed transaction

to a U.S. Governent agency or official. Subject approached

-Iden

in 1955 to obtain financial backing for a travel agency

which vould publicize Yugoslavia tourist attractiong to Abericans.

In exchange Bubject tould pass on to+ iden any information

he might be able to obtain through said Agency.

Meetings

were held with Subject on 30 September and 3, 5, 10, and 13

October 1955.

Subjoct was advised that: Ides..

" would not back

bin financially or support bin in any manner.

Subject 1s vell

known to LNERGO.

FYI:

Subject is considered a last buck artist

and a security risk.

He is belleved to be the person who blew the

Into? COS 1n Haiti to DUVALIER.

B.

FrOs DIRECTOR-30286, 23 August 1967 (not sent

In addition to the above naned countries, Subject

1s an agent for Indonesia and i8 a contact of Doainican Republic

President BALAGUER.

He has had some Cuban exile contacts. Piles

show that Subject has been implying contact with U.S. Government

officials at the "highest lovel" as early as 1957 in dealing

with unsuspecting clients, particularly foreigners, and has had no

compunctions about indicating close connections with State, the

sal, sad the tbito House.

3. Traces on GLISBERG bave been requested fros liBRoo.

Il aDy additional information results, 18 uill be forwarded

_ to the station.

SIB

ВаГа J. BLUHENIH

FOCA

1001

530

USE PRIVIOUS EDITION.

LLASSURICATIOM

SECRET

COSTSUED

---

## Page 3

14-00000

2293

i=.

BBCBET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHNINT

TO:

EFPl-7469, datod & July 1939

LOINTITY:

CS COPY

AW. A97.TO #2P0-7469

201-41581

---

