(104-40788-10046)

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OCDISPATCH | ocotgeg)

: Chief of Station, Mexico Ch

DR

Con ist CNN

x
: Chief, WH Division —_ wan gl oy “woman
a

LIENVOY Project Amendment

GvTS hg AT

A. Attached for the Station's information and records
is a copy of the LIENVOY Project Amendment request which was
approved on 26 July. 1963, raising the LIENVOY approval by
$23,000 for FY 1964, bringing the total approval for the Pro-
sent project year to $70,068,

2. There follows a resume of the pertinent correspondence
concerning this Project Amendment, which resulted from problems
surrounding LIENVOY, LICAPER, Orville R. HORSPALL, Douglas J.
PEINGLASS and Arnold F, AREHART, :

‘a. The Station was informed in DIR-35426 dated 26
April 1963 that the Station's original request in IDMT.
3380 for replacement of the LIENVOY equipmont was held 7
up for budget’ reasons and until the future of the pro~
posed LICAPER unit under Li"“4PO could be determined,

b. The LICAPER Project Outline as submitted with
HMMA-21437 was not submitted by Headquarters to the ap-
propriate authorities for approval, Instead, Head-
quarters cabled approval in principle of tho proposed
project (see DIR 48559, 20 June 1963), stating that the
LIENVOY Project was being amendod for the new equip-
ment, which would release the old LIENVOY equipment for
LICAPER, (See HMMW-11678.)

(continued)

_ Attachments:
Project Amendment in 2 separate (split) be ines

Ge?t side forwarded h/v) ol
(right side u/s/c Recovea prea peayiae Beech,
S Closaification: ,2C -«
Bifrost ton
Distribution: veers an
0&1 ~ COS, Mexico City ae Fold:_G@_
‘& ad

peccaseceecansessncnsnecessessatesnsesecats ——-— WBH=11811-- 31 July 1963_

sina . [ngs har tua it

50-6-75/1

1. RI
1 - Chrono

TON 53 use enevions eure



rnc ne ec md

¥y'ib)

* CONTINUA

$412 of 17 July that the

br

c, After tho LIEXVOY Project was submitted for

amendment, the Station notified Headquarters in MBXI
ise decision had been made

to delay maales ca; tppecaches te LIGEMUC reyarding
LICAPER until after the
becn mate oud ie political iuture of LicAvex and®
LIENVOY could be better evaluated. Headquarters asked
the Station in DIR 55521 on 19 July 1963 whether this
decision to delay LICAPER might not affect the new
LIENVOY equipment and: asked the Station whether Head~
quarters should witbhold the requisitions for the new
LYENVOY equipment until notified by the Station, In
effect, Headquarters now is holding the requisitions
forwarded with HMMT-3380 until the Station informs =~
Headquarters. that’ a new baschouse bas been selected,
and that LICAPER can use the old equipment, MEXI 5452
notified Headquarters on 32 July that a separate cable
would bo sent answering the questions regarding the
LIESNVOY equipment. :

3, Headquarters will take no action regarding the new

LIENVOY equipment until tho Station notifies Headquarters
that everything is ready for the switch in equipment.

END OF DISPATCH

CS CObY

soe" $3a
tae)

sey

SLAs siM cities ~~

use Previous FoiTion.

[a

ml)


7 unctassifieo oO wena EIT ATIAL Gy secret
KOUTING AND RECORD SHEET _

SUBIECT, (Opnonci)
_LIENVOY

ce z c
6 -

WH/3/Mexico/Bustos 24 June 1963
heuer COMMENTS (Number och comment fo show from whom

cor
il wane cana | Saat etn om ea ht ces

SL sLMextco

fw
_-esmis Q 2
Cad TY py op erngae TPs
OWA AOE es oe ft ait tedaies Dey ads
: Prins
Crapo yee fo sae, added 1 f
Ale her OL FYeyC Haw a Pte or,
2 fa Gyaeed DTH 4 Bs, ase
forks for Pree wy be
diode Wet otlce bm

WH/FI/Projects Off

DDP/PG/FI

gq NWF Project Office:

WH/3 Mlextco/C. Bus tom!

i
i

er 610s” (] SECRET —C] CONFIDENTIAL] (MEMMAY UNCLASSIFIED

3-08



ere
ie OnUNE!
pDP/PG/FI
25 Jul 63
PROJECT BRIEFING
PROJECT: LIENVOY - WH - Mexico
ACTION : ADDP approval of amendment 1 Feb 63 - 31 Jan 6%

24
PURFOSE: Provides for a (Joint) telephone tao operation aren an

unofficial liaison relationship| with LYELEGAN’] and /éhe
| Ol
AMEND-

MENT: Station has been considering moving the tap center for
> security reasons since June 1962, in view of the fact
that the present basehouse has been used for three years.
Station also desires to provide the new center with more
mobile equipment. Old equipment will be used in a new
telephone tap operation (LICAPER).

FUNDS : $23,000 additional in F¥ 64 New total: $70,068
New equipment includes 32 recorders,

30 B-10's and various testing and auxiliary
equipment. .

PREVIOUS :
APPROVALS 1 Feb 63 - 31 Jan 64 $17,068
1 Feb 62 - 31 Jan 63 43,240
1 Feb 61 - 31 Jan 62 59,690
1 Feb 60 - 31 Jan 61 53,840
1 Feb 59 - 31 Jan 60 163,537
STARR

COMMENTS : FI and CI Staffs concur in approval of amendment.

SEGIET

pd

\



Glew

ae Haas ScCueT,

(ahen Filled toy

Tak Ch _ACTION,

| hea PRoutet
aereowat

auraquenr

rerresrey

| 5940

Headquarters
s [ae

Lvn/3 Meri [tee 6. Norris. Be

oemia__| John M, Whitten.__F

eee Carter. Qe Ct
LM. Brooks Atal. 3
Ee Le Geary Lia 23.

H/POA..___John R. Horton

|_wsitiam Food

La. C, King.

i
i
i
i

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS

Bowie ( sham

Jul 63)

as

15 gun 63) |

Jul 63!

FERvGD

(.eeeeaerera “3 Cebadd"]
31 January. 4 238,058." Eel

Sienatone



‘Ipd

24 JUL 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director (Plans)
‘THROUGH: DDP/PG
SUBJECT: amendment of Project LIEXVOY

‘The Foreigz Intelligence Stuff recomezds approval of the
amendment of LISX/OY Project. This project continues to provide

a quantity of visable intelligence.

: 3
1? ve . >
x WELLE
bi MW wor Gt.
o— ~~ Chief
Foreign Intelligeace
Attachzent:
Project



1

pv

SECRET (

21 June 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director (Plans)
SUBJECT 2 Request for Amendment of the LIENVOY

Project .

The LIENVOY Project is submitted for amendment. It

..was last approved on 29 March 1963 for a total of $47,068
for the period 1 February 1963 to 31 January 1964, It is
requested that this Project be amended for an additional
$23,000 for FY 1964 to cover replacement of equipment for

the LIENVOY tap center,

t_covers a 24

« Objectives: The LIENVOY Pro.
fyotnt) telephone, tap operation, and anj
Bon relationship) between the Station,0L

his[ liaison relationshi,

utilized by thé Ambassador( as aif 2y

2, Agents: This amendment does not change the
agents under this Project,

3. Changes: Since June 1962, the Station has
been considering moving the LIENVOY ter for se
curity reasons,_ As the time for the xican Presi- 2y
dential election}approaches, it may become more dif-
ficult to conce'! the activities and location of the
LIENVOY tap center. The present equipment is large
and difficult to conceal, The last LIENVOY Project
renewal request stated that a move was contemplated
1) because of security reasons since the present base
has been used for almost three ycars; and 2) to pro-
vide the new center with wore mobile equiprent, Dur-
ing the approval process, CI Staff commented that it
concurred with the Station's plan to move. the inter—
cept center for the reasons stated, as the project
activity was bound to become of interest to various
opposition elements and the Station was well advised

.to make necessary changes to provide for and improve
on the security of the operation,

This new cquipment will be placed in a new, more
secure basehouse which is yet to be selected, but

SECRET


ct ita contigue’to be under the direction of
LEGANT) and! LIENVOY-2 (representing the Moxicans 06
{llard C, CURTIS shad Arnold F, AREHART, (repre
senting KUBARK) The workers in the present center
: will not know the destination of the rack-mounted
equipment which is presently being used. It will
be crated, and ostensibly flown out of Mexico being
replaced by the nev, light-weight equipment,

The old equipment will actually securoly be
transferred to the LICAPER tap center, which is being
established by LITEMPO-2)ojand which will be carried
under the LICAPZ Project. Approval has already been
received from Ci,gnd FI Staffs for the establishment
of this vey eee faison|tap center under LICAPER
with the old LIZNVOY equipment,

4, Intelltzeace Production: LIENVOY is one of
the most productsve tolephor telephone tap projects in KUBARK
of both FI and CZ type information.

5. Bffectiveness: In addition to providing
intelligence through its tap center, LIENVOY also
Station with an effective zd

jon matters of prime inter.

est to the Ambassador and the Department of State,
ag well as on subjects of KUBARK, interest.

esidential elections] are to
Since this project is con |
.

ducted in
ie Future of

Li
ipmént involved will de-

this project. an
pend on

The COS'has stated that tne e
in KUBARK controi through the KUBARK Staff Agert
who runs the control center, thus it would eventu-

ally be|disposed of in KUBARK's interest should
SLBGANT 5) : 24
Al : 2<|
7. [ijaison:)| This is an

official Liaison
relationship.

8, Inter-Agency Coordination: Not applicable

\

9, Plans: No other changes are’ contemplated
during the present Project year,


SECRET

3

10, Funds: Arnold FB, AREHART, Staff Agent

: . , and KUBARK Case Officer in the tap center, dis-
“= cussed the appropriate new equipment with TSD

“" specialists during a TDY to Headquarters for this

purpose. The following equipment will be requi-

sitioned upon approval of this Project Amendment:

32

ee, 30
1

2

a

12

Revere recorders ~

B-10's

Regulator, automatic-line voltage
Oscilloscope

Dial simulators

Headsets
Revere parts

The approxinate cost for this equipment is $23,000;
bringing the total Project approval to $70,068:
$18,210 for FY 1963 and $51,858 for FY 1964; for
the period 1 February 1963 ‘to 31 January 1964.

J.C, King
Chief,
Western Hemisphere Division

conn
SEGne
