'104-10218-10027

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992|

oi J Lvl fT .. 8 Bhrecter, Office of Security”
: Seetea United btates informtion égency

Frou oo: Deputy Director for Plans
SuBJECP: Buge FOLIO velences

i
: 1, Reference ts mado to CSCI-8/773,047, dated |
: 23 Lecomber 1Vd2, and CHUI-u/77S,705, cuted 10 Novesber {
ASGs, which providea inforeation ca fuuject.

} 2, Is an effort to try te clarify the aetails of

: Garopktcry jadormition available os bupject an the

records ef this Agency, re fahlows iafezvmetion ren

cently receive fren our representative ia Mazico City,

ebich fachides alk iafermtios aveilabie in the files

A there oa subjeet, Me accitional tafernstion on POLIO 4
is containwi fn the Philos of thia edifice whicu hes not
Qivesdy boon macs availiable to you in the noserencs 7
eited in pereygraph ons. i

B. age TULIO Gelendea (srremouely descxibed i
@5 8 Cuboa) eis Gis Tourth epeeber va 25 Kerch 1058
@t B rekly Of Cubtn, Uacuregusn, ang bowmiuiean i
peliticsl sxilep solu at the duuren Xermaent ia
alomas lark, Hexico City. Me ached Menace to give
Aid to Cuba, Nicaregus, and the boalaicaa hepublte
i as “endlaved” countriws. (See C5-3/355, 862.)

b. Uvivernad, 11 January 1559, raported dugo
TELIO UelONGex Su & sponser tn & meeting bole
26 Jamunry 2559 at Neniciclo « Junrez. ‘fhe meeting :
. whe a reliy to attack President Miguel YDIGULAS
i Feontes of Gustemela ae a dictater ond as a lackey
i of the tsited states,

©. Exeolsier, 11 Jaavary 1653, reported the
wang weet lig ta “b" above esd had a photograph of
Eugo TULIO Holenden us one of the principal agita=
_ tors, It said he advocated thet Hexico break
~ Gipleamtie relations with YDIGHAL.



Gd. 1s Prensa, 24 June 1959, cited huge TULIO
Melendez og one Of the speakers at a rally at the
“fuditorio ce iemaicudes” who ayoko agninst dic-~
taters in Latina America.

@. A report datec. 17 July 1059 reported in
Field Comment 3 that Hugo TULIO kelendez attonded
cerenonice in connection wita the taauguration of
Bummer echoel]l classes at URAH. uring these cere-
monies -— and vith baited States Amiasaacor Hobert
C. Hill on the platfora —- Bugo TULIV telencez aude
Genly got up on the fiatiorm and began to mike a
wyoeeh attacking the United states sed ite policy
toward Latin Anerice, hugo TULIG seleadez vas
forcefully removed froa the plutform by Lic.
Aatenio CASTKO Leal, birector of the UHAN Sumrei
senool, (See (5-3/467, 923.) .

f, The same report above szic that a stucont
weily wac held in the auditorium of the UNAM to
eupport revelutionary activitiea in Central ond
Seuth America. ugo TULIG Selonica. was one of the
persons who presided ki this rally. Leaflete by
the FCN were distributed at this rally.

fie A momo of JO July 1959, from a fairly re-
lLaable source, roparted ou the Hationnl Oratory
Contest avid ai Jalays, Vertcrux. The roport
atated, "There were tuo main types. of orators:
the very bud and the adherents of the radical left,
vho say be considered ue future agitators, The
mest dangerous of thie (agitator) tyre were Hisvel
Lovez Barros, the korclos repregentztive, and iaigo
TULIO Sclendez, vio despite being an Gut-rand-cut
dcemagogue, Anowa well how te attract tho maszes,"

h. & report dated 14 august 1959 on a “Visit
of Cubans et ations] University of Kexice" re-
ported that mago TVULIO Helendez was one of five
organizers ef 4 meeting held in the Jacinto
Pallarea auditoriua of the Law School (at UNAM)
to honor the Cuban Communist visitors... (See

(CB-3/409,685.)

- 4. A veport dated 28 August 1659 reported a
meeting beld on 25 July 1959 at Atenco Espanol
(Cousunist meting b211) to pay tribute to Fidel



. RALBTIC,. Second. Secretary of the ‘Yugoslav-Eabassy

BiSSEM

CAUTRO Rua, Hego TULIO Melendez was the firet
Bpeuker. He praived the Cuban Kevolution an.
attacked. the governwents Of Hicsragua, Parsguay,
end the bominican republic, and blased the
“psemio blondes" of the North (United rtates)
for sll dictatorships. ile said the presa kaa
been ysid to distort the truth about the Castro
revolution, He sic he knew his words would bo
Fepertes to the District attorney, since the
Hexican Govorament always sent psid agents to
Listen. (Seo CHe3/411,174.)

3. On 14 December 1950 USI4 asked for cleare
emcee from the security Office ier Augo TULIO
Helender (bera on 3) duly 19008 is imxztco, L.F.),
whe was cited as au jaflnential stucent et UNaH
&sd who e295 being conuiderem for 2 student travel
gxent unter the oducationsl emchans prograu.
Q@See attached usau to the gecurity Office tu rem
ply -~ sttechuoat A)

hk zxcolsier, & Juno 19890, cited guge TLLIO
Melemioz Gi Gaa Gf the leaders of the “Frente
Univerwiterio Zatiac-awricsno” and one of the
tiwee veitera of & letter to nexicen rereis
Kindater hennel TaLLG ceding tisst Bexieo break
welattona with the iaminiens Kepwblic (Trujillo)
for the surder (vhich these stucunis say wae done
by Trujilio sgemts) of Jose ALMOINA.

i. Exceletor, 3G fuse 1659, reported that
hugo TULI Melendez (of the Prente Universitario
Latinovwricano) waz Buoug & group of “students,
workers, oud Commricts” who velconed Osvalco
SORTICS, Prowident of Cuba, to the airport in
Heuico City.

m. Of 13 July 1960 @ usually reliable source
roported that Hugo TULIO neleaces vas among &
group of Hortcan etueats invited to visit cuba.
The Amvitation cass irom the Cubsa Embassy ia
Moaico City, thich promised to pay all expenses.

RB. A report dated 26 July 1260, paragraph S$
from o usally reliaple source, roported that cn’
7 daly 1960 tego TULIO Kelendes tavited titloa



i
i

i
i

im Wexice City, to attend a student mesting to
be. beld.on.8@ duly 13¢0 by “progressive political
partios” to select dslogates to. take. part in the
Latin Ancrican Congress of Youth to be beld in
Cuba, EALETIC accepted. (See €8-3/446,119.)

©. & report cated 26 July 1660, fron a
wsuelly reliable source, reported a pro-Cuban,
anti-tsited States student dezonstration in froat
o2 the Uzited States inhaasy and the Wational
Palsce, One atudeat, Carlos CATIZ Tejeda, tried
to burn a United States flag (hut police force
fully prevented this). Ome of the three principal
organizers and lescers of thin denenstration waa
Buge TULIO Bolendez, (See Ci-3/4465,036.)

be Excelsior, £3 July 10¢0, reported thet
goven Hexites frGfessera and 36 Mexican studests
left fer Habars on 245 duly 1066. One of the
students vas Kage TULL elendes,

a On S Angent 1560 a usually reliable source
weportsd thet Vieento LEDS Toledino.teld TULIG
Relentes that bis work leaked very goed.  LOWEAEDO
Toledaze yanted to coo TULIO Heleudes on tho “next
Wednesdup” ang eaig bo would look forward to the
visit “with much pleasure.”

#. Ga 1d August 1860 o usually reliable
sGarce reported that Hugo TULIO Helenaes wan leew
hag by wey of Veracruz abosrd a Yugoslav azip on
Al August i260 for Yuguslevia. A powtien of TULIG
Kelences’ ezpezses wase being paid ky the Yugoslav
Governmest, according to this ecurce,

@, On 3 Gctober 1960 a usually reliable source
seperted that Huge TULIO Kelences was one of a
GFeup which arrived in merida from Habans.

t. On 10 October 1960 a fairly reliable source

- weported tugo TOLIO uslendcz ag one of the leaders

ef tho “Bloque Latino-Americano" or “Frente Univer=
siterio Latino-Americane” which was reported to be
constantly ettacking the Hezican Govermmont.

a. The United States Raval Attacho, Nexico,
has additional informetion cn Subject’:
behind the Iron Curtaia, »



ve On 13 Jannery 1962 a upunlly reliable
source roportes that Ingo TULIO selendes. had
been arrested (“nlong with other Ceammists")
and jeilud fer tho curation of the visit of
President PRADO of Yeru to Bexice. This source
Gaid that vuge- 10.10 seleadez und Alfredo RIO3
Camarena (bo called then “Comamiat students”)
bad boea in touch with the Yugoolsy Mebnesy,
the Polish Ewbnasy, cud the (ulau bubsassy ia
exico, He said these two hud visited Yugo=
@lavia, Poland, the USSR, and Cubs, vith “ex
posses paid by thezo (Coumunist governmeats."

w. Gn 15 Yebruery 1961 reliable sources
reported plana and fianmegal arraszements for
Huge TULIO Holerdez to vieit the soviet Unica.

Bn. A repart of 7 Mareb 1651, from a ecuree
of unkucrn relinbility, said that ego TULIO
Helense2, whe “hed Commaist tesdenctes,” had
Jest returned frea a viait te (zechoslovekia.

ye A fairly relinble source reparted on

& Ortober 1963 thet kugo TLIO selendes cas

one of tho leaders of the Covmusiet Keovimioerto
Ge Mibsrnacios Kactonal GAN) #2 the National
University.

Ze According te & reliable source, on
A Augest 1682 a “Colonel Evlemies,” wae said
be Gis tue gather ef Huge-TULIU Melexmdes Gvbo,
tke Colunel suid, wee “plensepate icentificade
con Ficel c2STHO Rus} asued for un iiaterview
with Cuben Anbasssder Carlos LECHUGA Zevin.

a2. <Accarding te s reliable cource, ca
32 August 1462 lingo TULIO velesdec spoke with
Eerte co SiWOMS (wife of Maron SINORAR, fore
wer First feerctery und Charge ¢’Affeires in
Rexico, whore be engaged in Cuban intelligence
ectivities}, of tho Cubam Rabassy, to say be
would arrive late at Ss1y0LAS’ home. ugo TULIO
Belendez gave hia boxe address and Gaid be had
to participate in a “round table” at the pre-
paratory echool befarc ecaing to see the
BIGOBASES



1863 Huge TULIO Helenioz contacted Branko HILI@0

bb. On & tay 19635 a reliable source reported
that Mugo TULIO Malendesz inforues Granko uILI<
GAHOVIC Ciutelligence Officer of the Yugovlav
Zuhassy) that be (TULIO) eas uncble to meet
Mengel, the seercstary of the iscat Cutters’
Union, today because Hanvel had to ge to Toluca.
fugo TULIO Melenica suggested that ho arraage
to bring nanucl to brenkfast on 9 Hey 1663 in
honor of "Comrade dv LEON" and let Hamel take
pert ia this breakfast. MILIJANOVIC sereed to
bave.a brenktest at G a.m. on Y Lay 1963 at the
Karia Aissbel Hotel and to hnve de LOUH there.
Huge apolegized to uLLIJARUVIC in advance bo-~
chuse he Gluge) could kave arranged alse to heave
had the leader of tac miners, Fillberte EOSALARA
(phonetic), tho ig alco a Deputy im Congress, to
mget thes. hugo TULIO kelencez eszed Branko
BILIJARGVIE dog the meeting with Ficel VELSmUEZ
GQsaresident of the Confederacic. de Trabajadorea
Homicauos - CTH) west, aod Branko waid that he
and do LEM bed a very cordial soeting with
VEIGGQURY ¢rom 1O:45 to 11:30 a.m. on 7 Bey 1S63.
Ur paic that co Licd speaks Apanich ard get rlong,
very well with Fidwl. Lugo then caid that on
23 May 1963 be will Rave lonch vith Presicent
agolfe LOVEE Yateos and, in sddiiion to tunt, he
bas goss wory impertant things to reyert to
Brenzo, firasko interrupted Kugo sud gaic that
these reparta ‘bhould be told te ie wien we awet
persoanliy.” Ungo TULIG seleacua offered te ine
troduce raukoe to to leagsr of the VESTER National
Union (Ueloa of Governcont Kuplicyees). ego cen
ceribed this orgesizction aa having 17,000 scnhers.
Buge esi¢ test hea knows ite leaders well end indi<
cated he cau be Of wervice to Brusko here Gls,

ce. According to o reliable source, om 10 my

JAHOVEC Enc reported that be kad succeeded in
contacting Alfredo HULLCO Moreno (vho is known by
cur repreventative in iexice to be a contact of
tha Yugozlav oebtssy). Hugo TULIO telentez sug-
geoxzted that trey meet at 7 pon. on 1d Hay 1963 at
ths “Cagn de la Cultura del Inutituto." Branko
paid he would consult his Ambnesador and would pe
then let igo know if such u mecting were all eee
Fight. They later: arrengod.a weeting for. 1 p.m.

on 20 tay 1663. p



@d. On 6 Octodor 1943 @ reliable source said
that, secording to Branko HILIJANOVIC, Lugo TULIO
Belondex ves one Gf the direct.x5 of the Iasti-~
tute Hexicano-Yugoslavo and that, a8 such, Fresi-
cent TITO should receive TULIO Helondez during
FITO's visit to Hexico, Blosg with the otaer
@irectcrs of the Institute. i

oe. On 50 October 1863 & reliable source re~-
ported that Hugo TULIO Melendez contected Hikolat
S. LEORCY, Cultural Officer or the Seviet mehansy
in Hextco, cho ta an fdentifiec Kus officer.
TULIO asked to hve tins to visit and talk at
length with LuNuy over the posuibtlity of the
Beyiet’s kelping to cupply books and publics-
tions to the “Xestitute de la Juventud Nozicens."
LEQXOY pronined to heve the desired discussica
with TULIO «= and said the Soviets would be
pleased to supply books apd pericdicala to the
iaseiteta.

f£. Gn @ February 18¢4 4 reliable source re-—
ported thut itigo TULIO Melender contuctud-deresiey.
HBBRICLT, of the Czera Eabesasy im Awxico City, to
tell ULTRICLT that be (TULIO) Bad the “diseurgos”
of Lic. Gustave Dliz Ordea end would send taece
to MEBRIKET. GULIO further said that a dinner
for 4 February 1964 had boom. cancelled, but he
por An Sppcintmont to sea AUGRICHY ua 5 February

3. Tao rersrt contsining the iniermition in paras
grog “aA” ves civculated to the Aavaseador; the reports
8 parngrapbha “ec,” “h," 4," “n," and “o" sere circus
lated to the Ambasapcer, Political difaiys Officer, and
several Attaches,

4, Ths attacked memoranda, prepared by cur repre=
,gentative ta kexice City, were givea distribution to
“the offices indicated oa each memoramiua, These nemi=
Wands concern Gugo TULIO olomies and his activities in
Mexico.

Attechnsat A: Hemorandus to the Office of the
Security Adviser, dated 15 December 1959. (See
poragrapa 2 "3" nbove,) :

Attachnont B: enorendun for the Ambassador,
Gated 30 June 1859, concerning anti-Laited Utates
aetivity of ctucents at the 2 Autonome}
University of Mexico. SEC

fe



Attachment Ci Heuavendum for the Anissancor
(elao veut to the Coumelor fur Public. Affaire),
“dated 10 August 1960, concerning travel of Soca
eaa otuceats te Yugoslavia, Tsis report wi
digeowinated at Keadquarters in Tweee3/648, 4 415,

Attachaest b: Menorsndun te the Ambassador,
@ated 16 July 1963, concerning station traces an
Bugo Tulse KELERLEZ, oka Ungo TULIO Molenden.

(As exnct copy of thie menorandue was torninhed
tke Acting Legal ditacza on ld cepterber 1 3
Paragraphs 2 amd 13 bave been celeted, as they
have mo bearing ou tro background of the UsTa
request froa this ofiice Yor traces on Subject,
ang sinee the inferustion centained there was

for the information of the Amiaouader only in
ceonsction with snetoor sensitive matter, biseso
mete that cur repreccntative an Uemieo City says
au thin momorantum thet Subject is an inieranuat
(velieved paid) of the Yugoslav lutelligence Sere
Wieo, and ts also. caunceted with polish aud
Cubon Evbegay officials.

Attacksont Er Nemmeromdum to the Amhnssader
ea iubject, dated 1l Orteber fuss,

Attnchnant Fi: Meucrandun for the Chief, vice
Section, dated 8 Fehreary 1604, concerning Sub=
ject's vies epphicativa. -

fp The infermatios contained im this seswrandua
eclesvily ghosa that, according te reliable information
Rathared by ecusces OF this Agency, Hugo TWLIO iclendsz
bac heen working Gad agiteting for Communism amd acntest
the United bistes for years, beta epoaly and clarces-
tinely. TULIG reportedly Aas visitas Yegeslavie sad
ther Goviet bloc countrica and tg Enowa to have gore
to Cuho; it is roltably reported that he received pay=
rent from the Communiste far travel ho made to these
Couminist countries. oe is an informant far the Yugo=
slevs, and &lso ts known to be im contact with Nikolai
&. LHOUOV, @ known HGS offtcer, and with the Folish,
Puen and Cuban Rebassies.


|

|. @103 fa whole cr in part cutwice your office witnout

I DISSE

6. The information contained in this menovancua
anf the attacimesta hercte cones fron oxtromely eersic
tive sources and should reecive no further diszentzo=

price approval of this Agency. i
€8CI~3/780, 703

Attachzonte: '
“Bik, Ga hove :

ec: Papartment of State, v/atta.

WE/S/iexico/C, Bustos:ard A april 1eca : '

Distribution: BASIC: :
“Gsig. @ 1 = Addresses MEM-22976. eee

= State l i
7 BE (201-2207), w/e otte. KO PROSECT :
2 Aan are atts, i

CI/PSA, w/o atts, : i
WH/S/exico, w/o atts.
WH/KERI, w/o atte.

- W/E, w/o atts,
sR/t, w/a atts.

A EA/fuserson, w/o atts,

i-1 = 8k/0/ii/Andgren, w/o atts,

- BR/YA/Young, w/o atts.

| |

Comordination:

EE/YA/Young (in draft)
Be/C/Terry (in drazt)
| BR/O/WH/Lindgren (in draft)
| WH/Sh/Anderson (by. phone)

