(104-10188-10041 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

Chief; WR Division

= DESEAMTIZE

Chief of Station, Mexico City par CSN 43

LIFEAT Prosress Report /Saly_ 1963
TION RTD TROT a

Ref: HMMA 21755

2 tpg esse moom
emt get

‘sant - 6,

1. ‘The following report 1s submitted in accordance with CSPHB-F 52-6-1,
section V, paragraph 2 wth!

A. EXPLOTTATTON OF LEADS

(1) LIFEAT/Soviet LIPFAT hes continued ita
daily coverage of the howe phones of two known Soviet Intelligence Officers.
This has enabled the interested Station officer to monitor the daily activities
of these officera including clandestine contacts of one and lately the appar-
ent involvement of the other in an affair with the wife of another Soviet
official stattoned in Mexico,

(2) LIFEAT/Polish During the final weeks of
BEXNAVE's stay in Moxico, LIFEAT provided continuing support to the attempted
approach to BSXNAVE. This support included periods of "live-monitoring” the
get lines: to give early warning of BSKNAVE's exact departure plans as Well
s the movements of BFKNAVE. LIVEAT also initiated coveraze of the Polish
Comercial Office ‘in support of the interested Station officer's attempt to
gain more information on that installation and the personnel assigned thereto.

(3) LIFEAT/Cuban LIFEAT coverage of two
targets related to the AMSTRUT operation are of great in‘erest to JMWAVE and
Headquarters, Copies of the processed take from these lines are forwarded
weekly to these customers. A recent and excellent roundup of AMSTRUT-S done
by Headquarters drew heavily on LIFEAT provided information. This roundup

<Jvas very well done and greatly appreciated by the Station. During the re-
porting period nothing of interest vas obtained from the coverage of the
Lhome of a Cuban Comercial Attache and it {a planned to cut this coverage in
the near future if it remains unproductive.

3
q
= (4) LIFFAT/Exile LIFFAT coverage of FSLARD-1

ay

Posed A yp wAnrg J
Lion:
ae

continues to be of interest to both the Station, Headquarters and other
Stations vho are connected with FSLARD-1's activities. Information con-
cerning SSLARD-1's planned travel to bot: Central America and PBYRIME vas
yy fully reported from this coverage. LIP=AT information enables the Station
$ to provide timely physical surveiltance of ESLARD-1 which should give infor
mation of his exact departure date and mote of travel.

Tos

Teev
j - €3 Classifica

dua ae

nr August 1963

wei
750-6232/3



CONTINUATION OF
OISPATCH

LIFEAT continued coverage of Judith FFRRETO Segurn has provided
a mumber of leada for possible agent candidates to assess and develop this

Costa Rican Communist exile.

: (5) LIFFAT/American Comminist Group in Mexico (ACGM)
‘The information proviaed to the local QDENVY office from the coverage of
David DRUCKER and Charles SMALL (SMOLIKOFY) 1s most useful to that office
for covering Aucrican leftists and Conziunists who travel to Nexico. Often
these travellers continue on to Cuba. Their contacts with meabers of ACGN
are of special interest to ODENVY. x

. (a ‘LIFFAT/titecellaneous As noted in reference the
coverage of ‘a former SMOTH agent 1s of interest to Headquarters, SMOTH and
the senior ODYOKE official in’Mexico. Recent information from this. ccverage
indicates that this individual te continuing in his literary efforts against

PBPRIMS interest.

LIFFAT, at Headquarters request, has undertaken coverage of two
targets of ZRKNICK interest. Although the coverage has not a8 yet been of
sufficient duration to Judge the take definitively, one of these coverages
appeara to Lave potential in providing information of interest.

PROCESSING OF TAKE

‘Processing workload of the LIFEAT processor/translator statf remains
heavy, but no backlog, has developed. With the recruitment of LIFEUD-28,
there will be a possible more equitable division of the work for the noted

staff.
PERSONNEL .
LIFSUD-28 was granted a POA on 8 July 1963. This agent candidate is

presently being assessed, PRQ Part II will be forwarded at the earliest
Possible date. :

LIFEVD-1.has initiated attempts to expand his coomission for investi-
gating administrative personnel of thi jee paragraph 2 C
of reference) to include all personnel well, This
would give L-1 the access to the he previously enjoyed as
an “employee of confidence", Even with the presently reduced access,
LIFEUD-1 has continued to make a substantial contribution to the success of

the LIFTAT operation.

Be

cC

D, LIAISON

No change from conditions noted in reference,

EB

SECURITY

As noted in reference LIFEAT access to the has been
reduced by the combination of LIFEUD-1's "retirement" and the new "work
order” system being implemented by the As of the present,
LIFEAT has not been adversely effected in any particular incident by the lack
of LIFWUD-1's “protection” of the LIFFAT linemen although this censtitutes

a continuing danger to the operation, LIFAUD-1° is working toward regaining
the access he previously enjoyed. If he is ouccessful LIFEAT's access to
the and partial circumvention of the "vork order” system

would be re-established.

Just prior to the reporting period, a telephone work crew disconnected
the LIFEAT lines routing the Yugoslav Ambassy tap lines to the basehouse.
‘This vas done at a point one-half mile rom the basehouse and an equal die-
tance from the target Embassy, and at a point where the tap routing was
“jumped” from one telephone central's area to the central arca serving the
baschouse. It was assumed the telephone crew would be curious as to the
nature of these unusual connections, LIFEAT linemen therefore disconnected
the tap routing completely between the basehouse ani the telephone vork crew,



CONTINUATION OF i
DisrarcH SECRET EO | Ho-22029

Even if thé crew had then attempted to checkout the routing it would have
been impossible. No direct damage vas done to LIFFAT as 4 result of this
discovery but {t was agreed-that 1 possible LIENVOY should ossume the
Yugoslav coverage in the future. If such will not prove feasible, a cooling
afe portod vill ensut prter LIPFAT ettempting to re-establish the noted

coverage.
“Fy TECHNICAL
No change’ from conditions noted in reference.

2.. The coverage provided by LIFFAT during the reporting pertod totaled
19 separate lines. A breakdown by target 1s as Tollovat

2, Svyatoslay F, KUZNETSOV

3. Suspected Soviet support agent

: 4, 5, and 6, Polish Embassy and related line.
7, and 8, AMSTRUT operation.

9. Home of a Cuban Commercial Attache

10. Home of a Czech intelligence officer

11, and 12, Targets of ZRKWICK interest

13. and 1b, ESLARD-1 and related line -

15. David DRUCKER

16, “Charles SMALL (SMOLTKOFF)

17. Judith FERRSTO Segura

18, and 19, Former SMOTH agent and related line.

3. During the reporting period @ number of memoranda vere prepared by

the Station for passing to local ODACID and ODENVY based in whole. or in part
on L{FEAT provided material. One HMM was provided based on LIFEAT material

(uH-7550).
Miterd iG

Toy efamnts

- Ail

50-6- 3/3

fone

sn | FT Jecwrmueo [=

