oe — = eet
: ‘104-10111-10082 [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 } \
fees See eeetie = TF

UIs ; _ (SECRET

.

Social Security Cade ee ;
Reserve Officers Association Membership Card . :
American Association of Engineers Membership Card * : fw
United States Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Card: J.
_ , International Certificate of Yeecination : dafom
eee eee ene Denil ( Haieuirat Carer ter
a. The residence, (1h Bton Place, Eastchester) New York; miltiple .,; ° se
., welling unit and was provided by Central Cover. This address is shown in the Hey
7 York Driver's License, Reserve Officers Association Menbership Cant, U.8. pereigtaseny
@. Insurance Card, and International Certificate of Vaccination. |: .

». The Reserve Officers Association Menbership Card shows that CARSWELL. _
4s 9 Coptain in the USAFR. CARSWELL stated to( TSD/IB oe
i should show that he is single. . ee cs ~ 3}

: “@. “The American Association of Engineers Meubership is ‘an existing
! Organization. The address of the Association is listed as 8' South Michigan:. ;
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. Hee aeeticeaat # piceigerteecestienerecoasiae?

a. The Intemational Certificate of Vaccination was prepared by the :
Agency Insunization Branch and shows that CARSWELL was vaccinated by Folla -. -
R. Woleott, Medical Officer USPHS Outpatient Clinic, 67 Hudson St. New York
13, New York. * : 5 eas *

e. The place of employment which CARSWELL obtained from Central Cover
was not shown on any of the above documents. However, he was told by Central
Cover that he has worked for VACHUTA ASSOCIATES since May 1960 as a
production manager. sereccieg

2. (1s0/ta)provices CARSWELL with information-instruction briefs which .
exp. he normally would have obtained his documentation. - ~ :

3. When purchasing his ticket to Cuba, CARSWELL would have been required to fill
out two copies of a Cuben Identity/Disenbarkation Card (Tarjeta de Identidad). One
copy of the Tarjeta is picked up by Cuban Immigration Authorities upon landing in Cuba,
and the other copy is retained by him until he leaves Cuba at which time he has to -
surrender it to Inmigration officers. The Tarjeta contains the following information on -

the individual:
Name Occupation Address during stay in Cuba
Nationality Point of Enbarkation Tourist, Transient, Resident
. Country of Birth Carrier or Immigrant.
Age Flight Number ~ ot Ee
Sex’ Date of Arrival. ee
Marital Status Permanent Address

SECRET

‘ey

