# 104-10331-10120

## Page 1

1704-10331-10120

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ...

CONFIDENTIAL

CSI-0358/96

7 November 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Director

VIA:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Deputy Director for Operations

General Counsel

Director, Center for the Study

of Intelligence

John F. Pereira

Chief, Historical Review Group, CSI

JFK Board Request for Transfer

of CIA Documents

(U) This memorandum is for your information. It summarizes

arrangements between CIA and the JFK Assassination Records Review

Board (ARRB) to transfer certain CIA records to the Board's

offices.

(FOUO) Background: During a meeting with you on 16 October,

ARRB Chairman John Tunheim requested that the Agency transfer a

large quantity of records related to the JFK assassination.

The

request was based on the Board's need to have the documents--

totaling approximately 190,000 pages--reviewed by the Board's

staff. Judge Tunheim and other Board members consider it

unworkable for their staff to review the documents in the

(International Point Building, to which the records would be moved

when the Center for the Study of Intelligence moves there in mid-

November.

(C) The principal issue raised by the request is one of

control over and protection of the sensitive CIA (mainly DO)

records once they are transferred to the Board's offices in the

District at 600 E Street, N.W.

street, Nee

The Board has agreed to construct

a dedicated secure facility (SCIF), access to which would be

controlled by Agency personnel.. Roger Martin, DCI Area Security

Officer, has conducted a preliminary survey" of the space where

the 'SCIF would be located, and concludes that the proposed

security arrangements would be acceptable.

(FOUO) A second issue concerns funding for the construction

of the SCIF. There would also be additional costs for

CL BY :

0185904

CL REASON: I.5 (5)

DECL ON:

X1

DRV FROM:

AHB 70-9

MATT TORTITIT

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: JFK Board Request for Transfer of CIA Documents

installation of a secure telephone and a secure fax, which are

needed to allow secure communications with (International Point

We are proposing that the Agency and ARRB share the costs, büt it

is possible that the Agency will be asked to reimburse the Board

for whatever funds they expend. In any event, we do not believe

that the costs will be great.

(FOUO) Conclusion: Our judgment is that the Agency shoula

comply with the JFK Board's request, but that the transfer of

records should clearly be documented as temporary. The documents

would be provided in increments.

Once the Board's staff has,

reviewed a group of

records, they would

be returned to the Agency

for final review and sanitization, before they are released to

the National Archives.

We plan to detail to the Board a small

number of reviewers from the Historical Review Group who would

control access to the documents and also assist in coordinating

the records review.

(FOUO) Unless you have objections, we plan to transfer to

the JFK Board the records requested by the Board's Chairman.

timing will be contingent on the installation of an approved

security facility and an agreement on funding.

The

tim

#. Firaine

John F. Pereira

Attachment

CONCUR :

General Counsel

Date

CONCUR: _

Deputy Director

for Operation

Date

2

CONETDENTTAT.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

JFK Board Request for Transfer of CIA Documents

DCI/CSI/HRG/JFPereira:ore/x30335 (6 Nov 96)

Distribution:

Original -

Addressee

1

- DDO

1 - GC

1 - C/HRG

- CSI/HRG File

1

-

CsI chrono

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

ATTACHMENT

Requirements for temporary transfer of CIA JFK Records. to ARRB

offices.

1.

Dedicated

secure facility (SCIF). The JFK Board will convert

existing space into a CIA-controlled SCIF with:

a.

New door allowing direct access

b. Alarm system

2. Communication/ADP Requirements:

a .

Secure phone (STU III)

b. Secure fax

c. Two personal computers

Work areas for CIA personnel.

Two-to-three HRG reviewers

will be detailed to the Board offices on a regular basis.

Additional workspace will be needed for

"surge" reviewers when

required for on-site reviews. Equipment requirements:

a .

Six-to-eight open-shelf units for records

b. One floor safe

CONFIDENTIAL

---

