# 104-10186-10271

## Page 1

104-10186-10271

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO NAREPORL

INFORMATION: REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

his material coataine isformalon nderling the Natlonal Delenes of the balied stales tithin the meanins si lie berkeleto lame. Til

18, V BC. Bere

a3 and 184. the unnemleston or pereiallon of which la any munres lo an unauthorieed perara la smhibited by la

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEX

COUNTRY Cubia

REPORT NO. CSCI -316/00097-61

SUBJECT JOSe ALtonio GARCIA Lara

DATE DISTR. 27 Argust 1961

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1961

INFO.

PACE & Wasrington,

D. C.

DATE ACQ. ALRUS"

1964

FIELD PEPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE, al firmer Cuban IS officer who served with the Cüban

isteil-gence Service until Aprai 1964.

Headquarters Conments:

The following report 1s one of a series containing personality

information provided by

the source and includes supplement.al

information from the records of this Agency.

It 1s requested thut the addressees take no acllon on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports withour

first checking with this Agency.

Source

aka "Wlro, "dentified a photograph

of Jose Antonio GARCIA LiNI,

a Cuban Intelligence Officer

of the Direceion

Geeral de Intellgoncia (Gencral Directorate of latelligence -

DGI! in Mexico.

Embassy

13,

14,

Headouarters Comments:

1.

A report dated 17 January 1962,

from three intested sources.

stated that Antonio Garcia was

one of severil Cuban G-2

gents now (January 1962) 1n Mexico and plauning to go

to tbe United States.

2.

A fairly reliable source,

report dated 22 Maj' 1962,

stated that Jose Antonio

"Nico" GARCIA Lara

to the commercial office of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico

ilty, however, he does little work for this

15 à member of l'e Cuban G-2 and an opporcunist i1th a

5

3

2

3/000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

REP CINCLANE

I NAWY

CINCSO #

¡ AIR

I&NS

Nate field disterbution indraled by "'*"?

INFORMATION ERERORI

INSA

LOCA

[FBI 2

INFORMATIO

TEXC.WADATI

3. IF BRITISHL!

AREPORT

5

3

2

1

1 WE: 5/8

HE/MADR

1L CI/LIA

A CURRA

DISAR Y

- LX-1613

NO PROJFCTIANNUE

1)

CSC1-316.00691-61

RID,AN_

MA HAVE

TOTALS

Hii/SA 7. (1),

WE 1 (2), CIA, RID 1

MK: i.D: solis

---

## Page 2

14-00000

5.

iік 1

il laus

GARCIA as dilaped, married

to a mille fill

side consolida.

Duband lio

1+60140801

lil exile?

is

N810O.

he wilsi

H:

Communists and conned toro. and that Cola 1u an doc snape.

GARCIA kas

a sister uho 1s a sin an the luited sidles.

Iss it

20 June i902 repor: shas sore source positivoly denialled

CiARCIA is i cuban

5-2 -gon

GARFIN

acinto triend

Di OSaURI CIENAEGOS

and

Repusy Chaset of 0-2.

On d tuly 1962, a usually

rollable source gave the dullowing

hiographic laformation on dicta& GARCIA Lar.:

GARCIA, a G-D agent working In Mexico, arrived 1n

derico in

early May

1902

the Commerceal di1scd0. or he

Caban Embnssy.

dio 1s a cluse friend of Osmans ¿lENfUEGOS,

MANUOI PINFIPO, and Ramor. CLANCA.

GARCIA 15 a digro:

Sia let

tall.

iTO pounds,

and Is mairsides a

named delly.

He belongs 10 the Juveniud

Autontren and

is knoan dy the pseudonym Neco SARCIA.

He arrived

$ 12

Mexico witt spociler instructions fron

CIENFURCOS tO

recruit Merican rochnicians and to provide.

them with

messary funds.

le seems prubable inut 1115

1s only a puise ano

that the men are being taion to cuba

soldly!"

be trained as

agitators.

GARCIA spends i11alo

time In his cáfice,

Dat is busy most of the dür ilking

enticle on thostriet.

Since he lived in seiien tor i

yost alid a hall previously, to knows a good desl about

the counêry..

He also 1s

in contart with menleis ot the

Spanas!

and Mexicar corrucist Parties and with

students

01

leftist affiliations.

reliable source witt good contacts

In tre Cuban Embarsy

1N MONI00 CARY SEVE

folioning Information on ARIuNLO CARCIA

Lara; the report uas dated 13 July 1962:

Antonio GARClA Lain, Coonercial Aliadle os tie Cuban

imbises tu doxlee Caly.

arred in Mexico on 2i Aprli 1962.

Bolero coming to doxico, CaRilA heid emporait positions

lie cuba governmear iu Havana.

He worsed for the

Minisiry of Agriculture acd the Ministry of Cable Norks

CIRCIA is a morboï of she Cubai Goa lot did 10r

artend the Cuban G-2 schoal.

He did atrond the diploatic

¡O FORETOS DISSES

---

## Page 3

14-00000

6.

7.

SECR

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

- 3-

to Mexico before he

was gladua.ed. One

of GARrIs's dutles in Herico mas to a551s. she Cuban

haring rochnacal exports to so io Cuba.

He was also to handle

commercial maliers and investigate

the manipularion of $200,000

(l'.S.) In connection with the purchase of automobile paris,

cameras. etc.

An unknown source, in a report

daied 25 July 1962, said that Jose

Antonio GARCIA Lara.

'NiCO" GARCIA, IS

the Cuban Commercial

Attache in Mexico.

GARCIA Has bar: about 1929.

His mother,

is serenty-s1x

years old.

in Habana, his father is deceased.

three sisters,

one linu! GARCIA

is a Nun living in the

the other to live in Habana.

Snig80 to Marla Eiena LURIA Baluja Snare), hey bave one

GARCIA was married in

Tatiana, and are expecting another

His brother-in-law,

Hec:or Ramon LARIA Baluja, resides at 305 West 98th Street.

Apariment number 6051, New

York Cry.

GARCIA waS previously

emplojed by the Army G-2 (with wnich

he is no longer affallated,

according to him:. Hanistry of Agilcullure aud the Ministry of

Ourispublicas.

ile his a secondary

scrood educrizon and attended

tha 'Escueric do Diplomacia," bui did not finish as he was transferred

to Mexico.

GARCIA entered Mexico 1n 1957 In exile and returned to

Cuba In 1959.

He arrived In Mexico

in his present capacity on

23 April 1962. His address as San Borja 1357. Col Del Valle,

Mexico, D. F.

In A 6 August

1962 repost, from a usuûlly rellable source, it was

Antonio GARCIA Lita retured to Mexico from Habana on

? Augus: 1962.

GARCIA told source tha: he returned lo dorico

orders to take over the commercial aceivilios from Ramon

8.

A usuaily reliable source.

in a report dated 20 Anvember 1962,

staied that sose Antonio GARCIA Lara, his wife and their

children vere leaving Mexico for Mabara on 20 November 1962 vla

GARCIA planned o stay

Habana approxinately

A reported dated 27 lovember 1962 stated that GARCIA

actually left Mexico on 23 November 1962.

9.

Jose AntonIo GARCIA Lara, according to a

usually reliable source

in a report dated 21 January 1963. arrived In Mexico from Habana

on 21 january 1963.

10. In a report dated 16 April 1963.

from a usually reliable source.

that sose Antonio

CARCIA Lara, passport number 62-213,

and his wife

left Mexico on 15 April 1963 for Habana.

GARCIA

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

## Page 4

14-00000

10110d÷1°

24

==1..

1/0r012102004224

wal:' de::

1e. 1ab0.a1d.

1. A lairit illable sourer.

in a report dagod in segremer 1963.

Slated that lone ball Old thor de oll l!

Cubien Embassy on Medics carj.

He also sealed thar Anterio

GARilA. ita

"Sico," à dung legio, remained ar alr Embassy.

GARC.I.A

1s a turmer momber of the sure sled Aurention, de opportanist.

and 1l as sold that lie is a membor of the lauan Intella e

in Mexico.

12. An ariast, dated 12 Girder 1903.

revealeú thid •ode A. GaRClA

Lilie, diplomale passpurt number

021213, arrased in destr: City

from Habania.

13. A usually reliable sourer reported that on 8 March 1964. dese

Antonio GARCIA Lara indi setter City lur Habana.

He recuried to

Mexico Caty un 29 March ilot.

11. DUSe ANtONIO GARCIA Lard, according lo a usually coltablo soure.

artired in ladrid on the doght of

25 May 1964.

15. A usually reliable source seported on 21 June lol. Peil GARCIA

lara is under tralister anders to labana.

On 3 uly 1968, 18 waS

reported thal GARCla ar: tis lamily loft Morico Caly to labana

on 2 Juij 1961, and nad

ali butore they had finald pacing

which was being complered to their

maud. Galila hod an intollagonce

escort ln to the time os

16. A usually reliable souri..

In a report dated 9 doly lit, irdled

that persons quiring do GARClA Lara on duly lycl,

by Camilo DOMAiVECH. 01

see Cuban Embassy,

that calcid had lo leave

because or liness, that a gorind of rest had ter reedomorded.

that he sould have to romain in bed, and that de lord his ills

family with him since ho suid be away for sone tin.

ALVAREZ, also of she Cari Imbassy, dold source that adell lott

un a porsinent transfer.

SECRF.T

FOREIN

DISSEN

---

