# 104-10181-10130

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10181-10130

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRIUK TO FILING

Fill in Seet 2 on back Dorich brek flop

_ TO ACHION BRANCY

and losw.rel to RID

Dustroy frost cover shoel, unless al serias

I'lle no sad lite shown are not oroper.

signleant artion taken or comments segu?:

insert prife: lie no beiw and forward

dueuen: lo RiD AN

FROM.

RID,

TO

NO

DAIK

z.

2Ed 72

Markall

2202

Slavere

03

[Ameri]

9.

Marshall

10.

IP/AN

BASO

FHUGINTIETO

TO ALL ADOHESSEES

FET SECTIONTO RACE IN APPROPRIATE

CONMENTS

INITIALS

Un chrome has cy.

Reactio,

DOC. MICRO. SER.

JAN 2 1 1972

AMW'INENTI

MICROFILMED

his assignments.

Pie to bench...es

RECORDS OFFICER STANT

he follotine

AN

13.

14.

15.

signed: Lilast Tu:

• ki

R. 0. £629 - 1:1!

uH/C

Note:

ro05:

122600

15 appropolato.

16

73901

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMED

610a

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIORS

IBSTR

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE,

COCU

2: 1-3311533

OOCUMENT NUMBER

• UFAA 03730

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

19D

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

PROCESSING ACTION

10

SECRE

Chie, Wasier Perispberc Division

INFO.

MAGNIO FOR MOEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

¡ONLY OLA END DISK

¡CAM JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

Chief of Statio

ViR/Miami

SUB# Operational/Typic. - Liaison/FBI

Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez, aka "Marcos"

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action Required: See paragraph 6

MICROFILM

References: A. CAS/M-2913, 8 July 1971 (Havana telephone number 99-4282)

B. CAS/M-2901, ? June 1971 (Havana -or Santiago- telephone

number 5-4792)

C.

D.

UFAW-1038, 24 February 1971 (Cuban telephone numbers)

UFAW-1000, 5 January 1971 (List of telephone numbers

DOC. MICRO. SER.

JAN 2 1 1972

MiCROFILMED

associated with DSE/DGI personalities and installations)

CSC1-316/03120-69, 2 September 1969 ("'The Organization of

the Cuban Directoraté of Intelligence, " Source: Orlando

CASTRO Hidalgo, Cuban DGI Officer who defected 31 March 1969)

1. The purpose of this dispatch is: (A) to suggest the possibility that

Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez, former Chief of the DGI Center in Mexico City,

may now be operating in Miami, and (B) to check out this possibility through

Headquarters traces and cooperation with FBI/Miami.

2. FBI/Miami previously reported that, on 13 June 1971, a call was made

to Antonio CASTRO, Havana telephone number 99-4282, by Albio CASTRO,

Miami number 885-4194. Reference A relayed the information to FBI/Miami

that Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez' Havana telephone number was 99-4282,

according to a report dated ll August 1964. That same reference also provided

the information that VEGA Perez had been identified by several sources as an

officer of the Cuban DGI; his DGI alias is "Marcos"; he was assigned to the

Cuban Embassy in Mexico City from April 1962 to June 1966 and, during the last

two years of his tour, was Chief of the DGI Center there; and, in October 1966,

he was reported to be Director of International Relations for the Cuban National

(While this appointment to the Council of Culture may seem

an odd one for a DGI officer, we know that the DGI arranges for its personnel to

be assigned such jobs in order to qualify them for Ministry of Foreign Relations

Distribution:

• Orig & 2 - C/WHD

Continued...

CROSS REFERENCE 1O

19-5-35

DISPATCH SIMOOL AND NUMBER

UN'AA-3730

CLASSASICATION

S EpC.R-B-I,

DATE

Typed: 6 January 1972

MOS FILE NUMBER

+ 201-334253

2224

---

## Page 3

14-00000

DISPATCH

ISECRETRIBAT 1 UFA1-3700

posts orersras. For example, DGl officers have been assigned to the

Casa De Lag Americas in preparation for assignments as Cuitural Attaches.

Orlando CASTRO Hidalgo also reported that the Cuban Institute of Friendship

with Peoples is now under the control vi the DGl.) Reference A also advised

FBI/Miami that this Station had no information on VECiA Perez' activities

subsequent to October 1966.

3. Reference E noted that one "Marcos" (true name unknown) was

assigned to Section Ill of the DGl. (Section Ill is divided into nine sections:

ClA, Counter-Revolution, UN, Mexico, Canada, USSR, Czechoslovakia,

East Germany, and a False Documentation Support unit.) Perhaps this

"Marcos" is Manuel Eugenio VEGA Percz:

seems likely in view of VEGA

Perez background.

4. It should also be noted that FBI/Miami provided information that

one "Marcos" LNU made a call on 1 June 1971 from Miami telephone 374-2173

(a pay phone) to "Catalina" LNU at Santiago de Cuba telephone number 5-4792.

Although this Station was unable to find any record of Santiago 5-$792, Havana

5-4792 appeared on a list of names, addresses and telephone numbers of

persons believed to be members of Cuban G-2. The list, provided by INS/Miami

in July 1961, lists this Havana number as belonging to one Jorge FERNANDEZ

(LNU). The list was compiled by INS from a notebook belonging to Salvador

MIZRAJA Behar, born 22 September 1926 in Havana, Cuba. MIZRAJA Behar,

a naturalized U.S. citizen, was a Captain in Cuban Army Intelligence in 1959

and 1960. He returned to the U.S, in 1961.

5. The possibility exists that an error was made in the original

notation by MIZRAJA Behar; he may have intended to write "Santiago 5-4792"

rather than "Havana 5-4792". Another possibility is that names of cities

were unintentionally transposed later in copying this list. Although the

connection -if there is one- is very tenuous, there is also the possibility that

the "Marcos" who called from the pay phone on 1 June 1971 is Manvel Eugenio

VEGA Perez,

now operating as Chief of a DGI (or DSE) Center in Miami. The

Station believes, however, that this latter possibility is worth further

investigation and that the place to begin is to attempt to trace VEGA Perez'

assignments since October 1966.

- 6. Action Requested: (A) Traces on Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez,

aka "Marcos", with particular attention to period October 1966 to the present;

(B) Traces on Salvador MIZRAJA Bchar, DPOB: 22 September 1926, Havana,

Cuba;. (C) Traces on Antonio CASTRO, Havana telephone number 99-4282g

and on Albio CASTRO, Miami number 885-4197. (Station WH/Miami has

several traces on the name Antonio CASTRO but none identifiable with Cuban

Intelligence.

There is one Antonio CASTRO listed in the 1967 Havana

telephone directory at 19 No. 552, Vedado, telephone number 32-8160. The

Station has no traces on Albio CASTRO.)

Stickunt

SHOQUIS

oy 530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

- CLASSIFICASI

SECRET

CONTINUCO

PAGE NO.

2 of z

---

