# 104-10215-10246

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10215-10246

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1-0551

201-4/6

SECRET

Vol. II of I

OFFICIAL CS FILE

(Jan: 1952 - August 195c)

FORM

3.08

1505 B

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

¿UbstiT, (Oplional)

RID/FIP iF

TO: (Officen designalion, room number, and

building)

RIP/AN

GA 50.

2

3.

1N.

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

-.-..

DO CONFILE TIAL

SECRET

RECEIVED

CECE

DATE

POTWARDID

Đ0R+101

24 jn8e61

4113

MACER'

NITIAL

на

DATE

HH.HA 2897

94u56

to ortiona

201-115581

SUBJECT: CROZIER, Rossh,

VAIVADA, Arthur G. (P)

RID/EDI

RIO/EIR

GEb6

7.

B.

10.

11.

12.

-13:

14.

6-1: Place nate processing

Please persiand to esplite

ASLE

PORM

2.83

610 us HEVoUS

EDITONE

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

201-168581

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

14-00000

VIA.

AIR

Especily Air or Son Pouch

DISPATCH NO. HX!-A-2897

SECRET

CLASSIICATION

TO

& Chief, iD

DATE 9 EUSE 1256

SUBJECT

GENERAL Operational/KUCAL

SPECIFIC

Artiur G. VAlVAiA-request for KUCiE Operatimal Clearance

It is requested that an operational clearaice u cotained for VAIVADA

whic. will permit the Station to discuss with him KUCAGE operatics in the

rie realize that vAiViDA is fully oscupied with hispresent

duties, and it is not intended to place any responsibility on his for lucias

operations. It would be of great assistance to the Station, however, if the

writer could be permitted to obtain VAlVAUA's views on the type of SUCAGE

ectivity in the

wich might de nost likely lo succees, ard

capitalize on his knowledge of the field by using him

Distriation:

3: --Washington

2 - Files

8 August 1956

БлЕ 1549 51-28 А

SECRET

CUISSIFICATION.

CS COPY.

201-168881

TaCT -168 8321

HAHA

2817

9AL

5 6

101-39723

---

## Page 4

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET /T libri

19.50

INSTRUCTIONS: Ollicer designations should be used in she "TO" column. Undor each commont a line should bo drawn across stest

and each comment numberod to correspond with the numbar in the "TO' column.

Each officer shruld initial (chack mark insutficient)

before further routing

This Routing and P.ocord Sheet should be roturned to Registry.

FROM:

TELEPHONE

RI/ ANALYSIS

HKH-A - 2517

10

DATE

ROOM

AUtO

TELEPHOME

WITHIS

RIED

FIDD

COMMENT'S

CAÏADA, ARTHUK

WH

COPY DETAOMED Z

Plin

M

MCCA

199a1 586

pro notion. requited

3May-OK

Cula

-9.P098

tom

18 RI/FI

1409

L

SECRETT

Subject grunted Ges ta

equivalent a a statios

notified on za Muy' 56

with retetion That questio

de state status wouid;

se winde handled

separately.

201-168881

20t

3777%

ABSTRACTKX

INDEX

1.041

DATE

CONFIDENTIAL

19 AiR 1958

9

UNGLASSIFIED

---

## Page 5

4-00000

. AI

Espocity An or Son Pocca

DISPATCH NO.

HEH-Á-2577

1.

2.

3.

SECRET

CLASSPICATION

TO

FROM S

Chief,

KHD

tries as Station, Habana "

SPTL

SUBICT GENIAL - Operational - kaUR

I SPECTIC - Irthr 3. Vaivada

REFS&

(a) HKi=w=1607, 30 Karch 1956

(b) HKH-n-1505, 28 December 1955

DATE 17 April 1956

Regarding reference (a) the Station concurs fully with the proposed pronotion

of Arthur G. Vaivada and desires also at this tine to bring to the aucention

of Headquarters the merits of granting Vaivada steff status either

concurrently with the promotion or as soon thereafter as may prove feasible.

The agent himself has expressed a keen interest in acquiring such status,

for a number of obvious reasons.

As a contract agent, Vaivada has not been

entitled to the standard step increases that accrue to regular S employees.

Horeover he has not had the benefi of recent legislative increases in basic

salary rates,

such thai his salary, originally set 16 August 1954 at the then

0→9 level,

is still $5050.00 per anmum.

Perhaps of more importance than

the foregoing considerations is the fact that this agent has been and is

losing out in terms of the retirement, health insurance,

and other nore long-

tern advantages availicle to staff personnel. The agent has several times

expressed to the case officer his concern, as a family nan, over the fact that

he is not receiving retirement credits with his years of service. Vaivada's

expressed career interests lie in continued employment by XU BARK,

nore

especially in the area of

assignments in the field, and in

view of his qualities of character and nigh level of performance for Ki BARK

the Station has no hesitation in recoumending to Headquarters that he be

awarded the desired conge in status.

In view of the agent's present salary level it is recommended that the

prosotion iron his preseni grase be to the equivalent of a GS-10 at a per

anmin salary_of_5,915.00. If Headquarters concurs-in-the-recomendation-

that the agent be granted staff officer status, the agent kould nove up to

the GS-ll grade at-tbat time.

Distritations

3 Wash •

2 Files

• 1

13 AprIl 1956

the 56 51-28A

SPR/rrd

LASSICATIO

RI COP::

201-16.8881

761--92733

---

## Page 6

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

ATR

Specty Aus os Son Pouch

DISPATCH NO. _

RAFOX $ 309

NaD: 8-3524

SEGRET IN

TO

Chlas of Mlaslan, Hexico C14Y

FROM

Galer, IHD

SUBIT GENTRAL O Operations

SPECIFIC

Arthar a. FAITADA

DATE

17 105M

DESCORT

Ped dettes

The follening information en Arthur O. VIVADA 19 being forwarded

so casE jou say cangicer asing bin la serico ulit as a amntact agents

in uhlon capacity ho has served lufIre mose ably in the past four

JOSSB. HIe presEnt COntreEt, Thien DeGENe BrIOdtive On 1 Saptacber 1953

Por a teo your portod, provides for a salery eguiralant to grado

GSol, Et @10ma2603.

2o A retien of the Headquarters filo Instancas that Bubjeot 18 en

arressive, rather voll quallilod operailva, nho hau enjoyed a gool

achEure of supasss ind has erroland good judguent under oparational

atrese.

Ho destres a casser mith chis agenoy, and lo devoted to

the wart.

• Ho

MAS trAINIA COTOTLLY DY jOSETUCtUrE Of KBARR In inshington, D.C.

In the lattar pars af 1953.

His Instruotore indieato that ther

ato nost favorably impraared and feel teat he pOssesses. a soun

raotical ouledgo of acie stances tine operational prinolple

and should bacong an instessinal valuable agent in the long rangs

vork os this poisanteatjou.

S. Tha salleres de a oragey and appalael of sableote wark wiset bad

been providad by the

/Costs Ricen Desk at Headquartores

Re

vas racrafted by the Panans station 1n Morember 1918, bat

10 BArly 1949 he, soved to San J030, Costa fies, where be

EnFollad

as a student of

-oconantes.

THED

SECRET

CLA

derating approdnately

189 une 54

201-168181

LENCL.

FORM NO

9 10

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

BIlL

KAPON -

EAFOR €309

HI6: 5-1524

ball iãs tine to our marko sinco that tisa his sala

catLea have been

His nost ispostent singio activity has boen

bo

In the course of hia operational duties, subjest bos

proved himself to be very socarity consciona end to

pOssoss a dogree of initiative thieb has lapreased the

stardon ahief on more then ons occasion. He bas

partsolpated 1a

he Babfoot will be available for duty in the near future. stould

you find ils qualifications of interest and favor his outry

as a contract agent, please adride as early es

pass1010:

has roquested that Sableot's possiblo ase

DESTRO:

i 001-43-26

---

## Page 8

14-00000

1-04, + 41

SEGRET KAPOR

ta ecur

..

APT €309

H80: 5-1526

vita futurO RRICAP questloas o considered.

RING

28 Juns 19511

Dists1batlons

3 a Hersco City, "/encl. under sep. cer.

1 - subj.,

#/encl.

I - PH/ III chrono, m/encl.

MiLasen:am

BESZNSITZED

per CSA 43-26

SECRET MATER

---

## Page 9

14-00000

1-135

rafatan,

SECRET KAPO!

Separate Covor Prologura

HE 1-1521

Elegraphie infolatioa conceraing sabjest la girea bolos.

A pbotograph os subjest lo atrachad.

Hamo?: Ross Lastor CRoZIS.

stith datos

Bista places Detalb, Illisale

valid las. passport

larital atacags Flfo - Argenties CORDERO Co, bora 15 Harch 1928

as ses joso, tosta fica. barriod

17 Lecaaber 1945 at úristobal, Cenal Zene.

Childres - 550

subjer: de no Loger eligiilo to attend ochoal

undar the 0.I. l:11l of rigirta

D3ACEJDEL021

Height - 6'1°

Forght - 180 1b3,

Eyes o blea

03

Other - Nosa la alightly inclinad to laft. Subjeet

las pugned, athletle appsarance.

BIONEDI

BECEIAED

-DESE SITIZED

1EOS5 8 18 0H.J1

-535 63H 43-23

ES COPY

Enel to HiMnW 1524 SECRETARIED

17 JUN 54

201-168881

---

## Page 10

14-00000

er- HMMW - 1524

-KHKHA - 2522

0115HA -2726

_S HKHA - 2847

eX TR$W- 816

MATOR

stent to KID/AN

02 Dec 20

-1P Jun.c. unc. ma

17 April 56

7 June 56

30.July.s.6

-9 Aug.56

6 0ct.52

Ti..

:201-16 EFE

201-168581

201:168881

001:168.881

201.168851

201: 16.8881

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

BIR

333

HKH-44l -1819

AUG i / 1900

chlef of Stat1on, Eabaas

Cas0f, 11L

- Idniniatiativo

• Ar8hUE do VAIYADA

Heforeacos 186:01-1731, de Juzo 1956

Io Plosso ado1se suojeot Wat effectiro 1 Algaat 1950, lle contract, an

esended, lo extanded for a porlod os oae (1) yoar.

A11 other torne and cosditlam of the ecatiset, so arendad, rerala 1a

Iull forso and eftect.

143. 108z0t 1956

Distalbutions

3 - Habans

1 - RI/DLP

•] - HH/III/Caba

2 - WH/ta1lro0m

HB/IDI/Cuba

J. G. KINO, С/ЬН

•W. GALBRAITE, C/WH/III

SECRET

201-168881

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SÜCEST

viEwCFANDUM FCR: Chief, Finance Division

FRCiA:

SUBJECT:

Contract Personnel Division

Contract Extension for Artbur a VAIVADA

1. Elfective Stugue: 1956

the contract (as amended)

sor the subject individual, affective 1 August 1991

is

extanded foso portado oro (l) posE

2. All other terms and conditions of the contraci (as amended)

renain in full forca and eflect.

UNITED STATES CE ALLERICA

BY

1.s/

Contracting Cfficer

:?'APPROVED:

15/

SECKÖT

---

## Page 13

14-00000

PERSONAL PISTORY STATEMENT - (Appendix I)

Listed below are names of organizations Idertißed by the Attorney General, under his responsibility pursuzos to

Executive Order 10450, dated 27 April 1953, to list the names of each foreign or domestic organization, association.

movement, group or combination of persons which he designates as Totalitarian, Fascist, Communist, of subversive.

or as having adopted or having shown a polley of adrocating or approving the commission of sere of force ve via

lence to deny others their rights under the Coratiudol of the United States, or as seeking to alter the 10re. of

goverument of the United Stales by unconstitutional means.

Each applicant or employee and spouse (if any) must revlew ube following list of organizations for certlication

purposes, and sign on the last page.

Abrahan Lincoln Brizado

Abraham Lincein School. Chleago, Munow

Action Commille tO FTeE SpaIn NOT

AlADATA PRODIES EdUCALIONAl ARSOCLALLON (ASE COMMUnIE POLILI-

AMATICAS ASSOCIALIOR TOT RACORETTUCIION lO TUSORATIA, IDE.

Americas Branch of the federallos of Orect Marine Coloas

Americas Christian Natioralli: Party

AmeriCAn COMmitlEO lOT SUrOpean WOrkerT Pellel (1e0 Boctalter

WOrKerS PArTy)

Amertcan Commilled for Prolection of PorMen Eara

America= Commillre for SpaLley Freedom

American Commillet for the Sertement of Jets la Birablajan, IDe.

American Committee for Yugoslar Rellet, Ire

Americal Commite lo Burrey Labor Condillons la turope

American Councll for a Democralic Grerce, farmerly knowD as the

Greck American Counchl: Orect Amenona Committee for Me-

MoRal l'nity

Americas Councll on Boriel Relations

American CrOIlan COngreSS

American Jewish Labor Councl

AmerICAn LaZUe AgaInst W'Ar Asd PRACIEM

AmerIcan League for Peace and DeT. OCTAGS

AMETICAL LILSUADLAD HOTKETS ILiETATY ASSOTLALIOS IRiRO KAOTO AS

Amerikos Liesutiu Darbiaintu LIteraturas Draugita,

AMENIERR NALIONAI LADOr PAr-Y

AmerICAn NALODA BOCIAlLET LESEVO

America National Bociallor PArTy

Americas RaLlowal1s1 Party

American Patriors, Ine.

AsseMiCRa PEACE Crusado

AmATICAN PEACE MODIILIALON

American Poles for PeRco

AmATIcan PalleD Labor Councl

AmeTHaN POlLIA LARgUE

American ResTuo Ship Mlleson la FrOjeCt ol le Ualled Arertan

Spanish ella Commaltrees

AMeRICAO-RuMiAn PrACeTDAl SOCIeTy

AmETICAn RUSTRA INFUIULE, NeT TOTE, AlAO KDOTS RA CRE Amert

RuMan Insulure for Cultura Belattors mia lbe sortes

Dhlon

American Russian Institute, Palisselphla

AMETICAN BUSEIRO IDETILURE OS BAR PrADISCO

ATeTICAn BUstAn IntUiule ol SOulDera Callarala, Los Angrles

StaT CongItas

Can FameD fOr PeRce

Can Tourh COREreSI

AmATIORS TOULA POT DEMOCTATY

ATIEDIAO PTOETETRITE LEAGUA O$ AMeTICA

Associated Alass of America

MocA:10n.01.German.Hatlonals: (Retchedeutiche Pereialgung»-

sociAlIon-of-LIlhuanian Worker (also knora as Liesuriu Dai

blataku sustrieslylaas)

AuRland-Orsanizalion der NSDAP. OreTICAn Breach 0l. KarS:Party-

Baltimore partn

Benjamin Daris Procdom Committee

Black-Dragon Boclety

Barton Beboal for blarzler Studles, Bonlon, Massach paren

I Has 10

- 1.

Bridges-Roberleon-Schenlt Defense Cotallen

Bulgarias Americas People's League Of lbe tered Scales of

America

California DIeTEEDy Defense Commilles

CallforDia Labos Echool, INE, J7I DIMIAdETO BUTEEI, BAD FTANCOA

Callfornia

Carpalho Russias Prople 's Boclety

Central COUnCIl of American

FOmen of CrOBIlAn DESCEnE, Nito

KaOTa de CeDIrA COUncil of Americas Croallan Momes, the

Mona! CONTaCI! 01 Cros!lAn TOrDeD

Central Japanese Assoclation (Belkaku CRUO MIDDODILA Kal)

CEDITal JAPADERS AISOCIALIOO Ol BOUlDErA CAllIOrnLA

Central Orgasization ol the German-Americaa MaLlonal AilluDca

(Deutsche Amerikanloche Finbeltstroat)

Cervantes PrO'STIN BOCIeTy

Chloa Welfare Appeal, Ise.

Chopin Cuitural CentS

ClizenE CummailLee of lbe Upper West Bide (ReT fOrt CIly!

lizens Commitlee 10 Pree LaMl Brotder

Cluzens Emergeary Delense Conference

CHi LIberties SponsoraR Commilite of Plilebareh

CITU RIgh' COLETESS ANd ILS ATULALed OrZARiAnCe, laCludIes:

DELeTADE AGAIRE, DSCTIMIDALION O1 CITO BUZHIA CORETESA OF

New fort

CITIl RIRDU CORETESS RON TRIBE (DEE CIVI RighL CORATESS)

Columblass

Colle Contalador sTo Expublles Espanoia

Comile Pro Derrchos Girlies

(Bee PuerTo BlCas COTaIre PTO LIDeTtades CIVIles)

Commitlee for a DemocratiC PAr LASTeTO PolleT

COmmItLEe SOT CONSUTULIORAI NAD POLILICAl PrEESONS

COramIlLer lOr NALODAlLER ACTiOn

Commillet. 10r. Peace and Brotherbood Pertiral ta Phlladelphta

Committee loT Use DefERRe Of lbe PiltsbuTgh sis

Committen í0s the Neuro in Use Arte

Commillen 80T lDE Prolecton of the BUl of Bizats

Committee for World Youts Phendship and Chitral lichange

(800

ContraTE

Discrimizacion:

Marylead CoDeres

AgALANS DIACTINITALION: PrOTISTORAL COMMITIES LO ADOlLEL DIE

crimination in ebe Scare of AlerTlaad)

Dammittee to Defend Marte Richardson

POlILION PTISODETE

Committe to Iphold the Bll of Rights

commonterilo collete, Meriá, Arbansas.

COmmunis PiTTY, U. A A, 118 subalteons rabaldianes, and

Communior Pollical Masclation, 114 rubdinook sabotdäfles, and

Niaberan Prosie's Educallonel Associaçlon

Morida. Press And EdUCA:JOna. LeAgue:

Oriatoms League sor Pallilcal Education

People's Educatonal and proc Acadiathan do TeXa

VITEINLA LEAGUE ICT POOpiEs EdUCALOs

1956

331504.166781

---

## Page 14

14-00000

COMITESS ALALEN DiACHOOlIA: 100

(Exe Coramistee la Abolian DiecTinlastion la MarTiaad)

COSETECA Ol ARETICAN RATCiULORUS DiMLETA

Contiere of Americas FOmeD

COSDECIICUI COMMILLO LO AIA PIELIMA Ol LDO BMILA AcE

COnDECISCUE BIALO TOUlA COOPerECo

COUsel fOT JODR, Relle! ANd HOLdRE

COUSCLi fOT PAD-AMerICAD DEMOCTACy

Councu of Greet Americars

Council On AiTicAn AIAlra

Croatian Deneraient Praceralty

Dal Nippon Buraku fal (balllary VIrtUO BOCIeTY Of JAPAN OS Alli!.

CATT AMI BOMELY OI JADADI

Dally Worker Presa club

Danlels Deierse Commillee

DARLO AlLEDiEN BOCLeLY (DESTREE 197S and 1910)

DeAnLs DeleDIo COmmILLEO

DeLTUdI YOULL ARSELDiY

East Bay PEACe COMmItLeR

PIEROTO PrOETESTITO LEREDO

DueTgeNCy ConferEnCE le sare SPARISS RefUstes (lounding body

of the NoTta American Spanies Ald Commulroa)

Brerybody's Coramilleo lo OutleT War

Familion of Che Balllmare Senith her Vieilma

Pamilles of the Smila Net S'leums

PoderAlIon of IlAllan HAs TELE-ARS LA LUe U. B. A. IAC (AsSOCIA-

RIODO NAZIORAO COMDAILEDL ILBILARI, PESETRNIGRE DEGII BLAIS

DElL d'AmeriCa)

PIANISA-AMerICAN MULUAl Ald BOCLERy

FlOrIda Presa aud Educailonal League (ao COmmuNIa POllICal

PrEdericE DOUglAS EdUcatoRal CenteT

Frocdom Blage, Inc.

PreDds Of lbe New Germudy (Preundo des Neuen Deusechlands)

•Mesas of the Borler Union

Garibaldi American Fraittial Boclety

Corte Hashlagion Carter Schodl, Net York City

German-American Bund (Americadeuracher Volketrnd)

German-American Republicas League

German-American

Vocalional

Loaguo (Douracho-Amerikealsche

Berulagemelnschart)

Quardia dub

Bartem Trade Unton CouDed

Helmushs Kal, aso knowD as Nokubel Helell Olmurts Kel. Zarbel

#IbOUJLA, IUTAtU O=1U8hA KAL, ANd ZAIDel BELOUIDS RAI (JAD

ADESE RESIdINE lA ArBerIOs MIllarY CODSCTIpLa ASSOCIALIOn)

Hellenie-American Brocbertood

Hinade Kal (Imperial japancor Reserviata)

ESOTATU KAl (RIELDE BUS FIRE BOCOTY - l FrUTD Ol JADASASO

War Teseraas)

BOXEDel ZAlTO SbOKA DAN (KOILA AMETICAD RESETTO ONORTE AESO

ctallon)

Bollywood Wnlera Mobütuston for Detenen

Hungartan-Amertcan Cornall for DemocraT

FusearAs BroLberbood

adependens Party (Beartle, Trasblaston)

See independent Prople's ParTy

Independent People's Party

(Sed ladependent Party)

Independeu SociallsI LeAgUe

Industrle! Workers of los warid

Interastionel Labor Delease

Interalional Workete-Ordes,_ 18 rubdinistonk.

anillates

JADRETTO ALSOCLADDA OS ARIPT→

Japasese Orriamos (E'T Socle: y (Kainal DUbO (IBO Ral)

JapAIrSA OreSsas CICTeSLIOR TORTO, JaJAA, I949

SODARADA PIOIFELITE ASBOCIALIOR (ROTTILE OTTIEBALLOR)

Jelenoe Bchool of EOCil BElEDOE, Net fOrk CIty

Jerles Cuiture Serse: y

Jabnsos-Po-ts: 070110

(Bee JObnsOniscA)

sabascal.es

(Bee Jobason-Partia aroup)

J01AI ADU-PASALE, BETUZTe COmMITTOS

JOLAI COURCI DI PTOETTULITE ILAILAD-ASCETICARE IDC.

Josepia Vieceropes Scbiad 01 Ecclai tatIca, 9= L0119, 10590951

BIDEl BEIDED RA (ASSONALION OS U.S. CHUENDA O1 JAPALESE BI-

CONTrY DiDO DATE TRIUTIAA LO AMETICS AER ELUATLRE LA JOJARI

Enizhia os le lalse Casselllo

Ku Elus. Blan

KYNCREUSEI WAS PALEl (KYUhsCUST KMetblleNerk)

LADOr COUDEI 15T SESTO RiEDLA

Labor Research suotades, Inc.

LabOr YOUtA LESTOR

LEREUe fOT COMION SERAR

League Of AmerioRa Wlers

LICLOS BOCLETT (ILAlIAN BlACK BALTI)

Mecedonlan-Amerian People's league

Marto NOTTAnial CirCe

MAMATE LADO COMMINEO lO DelEAd Al LARIOR

MarT'and CORENIS ATALASI DISCHIMINAdOR

(STE COCAIIIRE LO AbOLISA D'ECTIENDALON lA ALATTIANE)

Massachuncil Cosmillee 10r the Bül al Ristes

Minute Worsen of lse U. 8. A., lac)

Maurice BraTeTElD Delente Commilles

Dalchimon Civil Ristia Federation

MICHiTRO COUDTE 1CE PrECE

Michigan Sebool al Socal SoleRos

FRata

Teltoto Otayudes (Impertal Mlilery Prends Grocop or

Southera Calaraю War Veleranel

MALORAI ALLOCA:IDO O1 ASCIICAN ATOETIEADS (ALSO LHOTA N ASOCIA

COn FACIONA METICO ANEMICaDA)

Karional Blue S'ar Morbere 0l Arerios (Dor lo be confasas util

Rha Blue Stas Mocbers ol AmeNiCA OrgANIzed In PeDrUNT 2942)

NASODel COUTINEE 10T ISE DEIENTE OI POLIIICAl PTiSODIS

Naval' Cuitt 011=401105T9807 Stalla AcI Vielme

Fazional Compl:ite to Wla the Prece

Massonal Confereco en American Polsy la Chlas and le for tass

(A CORiETEOCi CAlled DI LAO DONIMITSRO IOS A DETDOLTALIE PAS

PURETO POLITI

FALORA COUNT al Amerlonna al Crustiza Desorat

Nazione Cousdi vi l=e-tren-Sorier Prendship

KALIOTAl FOBETATION fOT CORELITUTIINN LIDETELOS

MATORRI NETTO COnSTESS

PArTY O1 PURTO 8100

ITA PIlEACE Ol ATETICA (RECe 1875)

Labor saray Committee

Mora Philadeiatia Forura

---

## Page 15

14-00000

Oblo Bchool of Soclul Selecces

OLiatoma CulomiileR 10 DeleDd PONLICAl PisOneTO

OKIRIOMA LIABLO 1OT POLIUON EdUCALOS (SCO COMMLAIN POlICIOSI

448190149

Orteral Soulcera Fiase, Incorporatod

Parinc Horthment Labor Bchook, Sealle, PReblastOs

Palo Alro Prace Club

PArtião del Pueblo ol PADRINA (OperALAE lA the CARAl RODe)

Peace Intorma:son Center

Prare SioTement of ELsipla

Pooples DrAmA, Lac.

PrOple's IdUCALICRAl ROd PTeSa AbSOCIALOn Of TerAs (sEO COmmU-

DISE POLLICAl Assoclaron!

PeoplEs ELUCAIlOnal AssOCiAlIOsa (Incarporalod under pamo los

AngelES ECUCILORAl ALSOCIAlLON, LIC.), AlRO KICTO NA PROpiCS

Educational Cenler, Prople's VElTeTAiTy, Proplo's School

Probles lastilule ol Appilad Religion

ProplEs PrOgTATA (BEalile, MAChIagIOs)

Prople's Radio Foundadion las

People's Rights Parly

Palladelphla Labor Commlllos los MeEto BiRbe

Phlisdelphis School 1l Socal EcleRce And Art

phoo League (Net Tork Clis

PIlLAbUrBA Arts club

PolItical PrISOnCTE MelIaTe CORaMIlLEO

Polonia Sactely of the ITO

PTOETEISITO OCTMAN-AILETICADA, ALEO KAOTTI AS PTOZTOGRITE DETIIAI-

Americans of chicago

PrOLE:AMAS PATIT O: AMATICA

PrOTESTAGI Par VeLCiARA OS UDO EDILed BEALEs, InC

PTOTISIOnAl COmmILCE Of CILIeRa loS PraTe, SOUtDWerr ATra

PTOTLIODRI COMPITiCO US LALLA AMEMORO AJAITO

PTOTISIOLA CODIMIILOR LO ADOLISA DIECTIMIASLIOAI In RE BURLO Of

Marsiand

(SeO COmIlilEE tO Abollab DiAcrlmiaslon la HarTiand)

PUertO RICAR COLICA PTO LIbertAdES CIMER (CLC)

(5ee Comile PTO Derochos Girlles)

PUEMOTTIQUEROs UDIdOs (PUeNO ESCARa UAlLES)

QUeS CItY COMMIlLIE 1OT PESCA

QuerIEbrtagE TeDADL LEAgUe

BATOlULIONATY DiOTKEIS LENGUe

BORADIAL-AMeriCA PrACeTIAl BOClety

BUGIan AmerICAn SOCIsy, IMe

BALULA BAl (PALMOUIE SOCIATY, OT (DITTY ATTOCHtON - COmpOSEE aI

VELETADA 01 RUISO JADASCIO WAT)

Banuel Adams Sebool, Boston, Marsschusetts.

Santa Barbara Prase poruo

BChAppEs De'eDIe COMIDITiA

EChoeldErIAn-DATTY DElERDO COrAMItiCO

Bebool of setrish Studier New Yort CitT

Beattle LAbar School Seatlia, Washlngton

rolda-Anericas FTaleTIal Socie

IDAs C0

EnLaco Temples (lumliAd lo SlALo Shbaco aboltebod 1a 19951

SU TAT SEITE LATION OY ACeTICA

B'aTie COUnES of soulhera calllaralo

Blorax Morters Soctery

ElOTERlAn-AmerIcAn NALORAl CONDEO

SocialIr: Morkers PArTI, InCludlaz Americas Commlllos sor ferra

PrAI S'OTKeTS REliET

BOCIA:LSE TULiS LEAGUE (SEE MOrTETE PArTY)

Sokoku Bal (Falberlard Boclery)

Boutbera titEro Youth Congtess

BUSKO EDA (REBETTO OSETTS ASOCIADOR, LOS ARBOLES)

SIracUse WOStS fOr PEsCO

Tom FAlse Sitiool Os SOCial BelenCe, PhllAdAlphia, PARTITITacI

rom Palse Scboal of Westchester, New 7071

Trase l'sion Cammille 10r PeRca

(80x Trade l'DICalILa Yos prace)

Trede talOnlLe fOT Pesce

(Exe Trade UnIOn COLmillo lOs PeRCe)

TH-SAle NesTO Trado Unton Coundl

Union of Ameriran Cros jena

Unton of Nen Tork TreTaS

Caled Aserias Epanist Ald COlmilDeO

Ualled Commlite of Jetrish locielos and Lasdemasachat Prota

VOCA A'DO IDOTA ES COOTALLA: TO COLAMAILAS 01 JETROS LASCA

MARshAllen aDd FIBLeTDNI OFENTILATIODA

Called Delesse Council as Southera Caillorala

UDlied Haritza IoDEale And COnsULIeTA Organizallon

Caild Ilay Day CoramItIeR

Casled liegro dod Allled TELeTANE Of Arsertos

VELETADA AÇALASE DLACTIAIDALIOR OS CINI REEALe COUTreSA of SeN

Tart (dE CIrIl BIEhL CONgrESS)

Verraco os le Abraham Lincola Breado

VITILIA LERGUE SOT PROPiÉ'S IdUCAlLOS (DrO COrAMERLEs PORtEAl

Fotos al Preedan Committes

Wail Whitman Bchool of Bockel Schence, Herrark, Ket Jersey

Machiagion BoOkstop AssOcialios

Maslatina Commilice los Democrate Act1o0

FacilaTtos ComiticE lo Delend the BAl Of Rieblo

Fashington Conciontralli Federacios

Washington Penston Cason

Wiscoatta Conferenor as Social Lestelatton

WOrKETA dilLaNCe (AnCe Aprit 1938)

Worker Party, Including Sortallat Touts Inefas

THolsbes Bultur Partend

TounE COmmuDIE LOREUO

Tuposlar-Americas Cooperallto Flore, IDe

TOSONAT SCATeD's ClUb, lDE

...

---

## Page 16

14-00000

CERTIFICATION

I certily that I have read the names of the above listed organizations

To the best of my knowledge and belief, I am not, nor have I been a member of, contributed to, recelved ises-

ature from, signed petitions of or is behall of, or attended meetings of any organization listed a'ore, or any

organization outside the Uniled Stars espousing Communist, Fescist, Totalitarian or diazl causes, except as asced

below.

To the best of my knowledge ard bellef, none of my close relatives are, nor bare ever been metabers as con-

IMbuted to, recelved Iterature from, signed petitions of or in behalf of, or attended meetings of any such Orzakeg-

lions, except as noted below.

INSTRUCTIONS

For the purpose of this certification, il an applicant or employee is completino this form, the tersa "close rela-

tive" will irclude spouse, children, parenis, brothers; sisters, uncles, and aunts.

'"Close relatives" of the spoase, Jur

thes purpose, will include children, peretts, brothers, sisters, uncles, and aunts.

Il there are exceptions to this certitcation, set Jorth beiow unwier Remarks all pertinent information concert-

ino the nature and elient of your colicities or those of your close relatives in such organizations, including the

names of the organizations, dates of membership, meetings atlended, titles of positions held, amorats and cutes

of contributions, nature of petitions signed falling within the meaning of the above certification and corcumsterces

thereof, titles and authors of literature receited, and dates on which received.

In exceptions concerning relatives, include only such information presently known lo you or arcilable from

vour orcT records.

If necessary, use additional sheets and sign each sheet. Write none if there are no exceptlons.

REMARKS: To be compieted by Spouse

| REMARKS: To be completed by Applicant or Employee.

Dat 23 JULY 1956

Argentina Codero de Qazur

(Signature of Spouse

(City and State)

(Witness)

(Address)

Das 23 JULAS 1956

poss 2. Скочно

(Signature of Applicant or Employee

(City and State)

(Witness)

(Address)

iz:

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SOMETI

23 July 1956

MEMORANU! FORs Contract Personnel Division

VIA

SUBJECT

: P1/Plana

Arther D. VAIVADA, Request for Extenslon

of Contraat

It 18 hereby requested that the contract of Artiner Go

VAIVALA, which expired on 31 July 1956, be astended for a period

of osa year. Mo chiages in the presant contract, as amonded,

are contemplated.

VAIVADA continues to servo as principal agent for the

AVPHODARCH Project, and his performance has been outstandlna.

Ho hao proved to lo particularly adept at

Ho

was promoted to the equivalent of a ls-10,

effective I April 1956.

P. P. MOLCOME, AC/HO

Distribations

Orig & 1 - addresses

-1---EV/PlanB=

= chrono

1 - subject

SECRET:

201-168880 2

---

## Page 18

14-00000

AIR

HKH-#-1772

- Chios of station, Habana

Chiaf, TH

5

JUL 1950

Operational/KUTUBE

Arthur Go VAIVADA

Reference HKH-A-2577

Headourters has under consideration the question of staff status for

Arthur 0. VAIVala, as set forth in reference. Bafore any action van te

Indulated In this respect, sorever, VAIVADA mast completo, and return to

Headquarters, the attached Personal History Statements and appendix.

Jo Co KIN

AC/ITH

28 June 1956

Attachasmtes 3

Personal Fistory Statement in duplicate

I Appendex

3 - Habana s/Altactzoato

• RI

1 • Ei/III/Chrono

Po Po Haloorb, AC/UH

Do Oalbrad th, C/B/III.

801-168881

SECRET

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECRET

19 June 1956

HOHORANDUM FOR: Cales, Branch iII.":

ATTENTIONs

Caba Desk

SUBJECT:

Arthur Go Valvada

1o The following 1s required to convert subject to Staff status:

ao ArTEnge fOr & full Agency clearance

bo

Determise the posation vacency to be made availablo

to accommodate subject on Divladon T/0

Co Approval of PI Staff and Chiif, Wi.

2o hith respect to a. this action may be initiated now through

WH Personnel.

It is suggested that one of the new positions allotted to

Costa Rica or Hexico ba made available to the Habana I/O if thero are

no Mrn plana to fill the position in the near future as presently

allottodo This of course idll have to be approved by Chief, kilo

PRESTON

wajef, kii Adain

SECRET

201-1688

---

## Page 20

14-00000

GALERIRO MIESCAGE

LXT

D3?3

TO

FOM

2056

L JIHE 2955

FAVARA

DESECTOR

005ІF

WH 5

ISTO : 61, CT/IC, 51/OPS 2, F1/71 2, 9/6 2

DIR 14707(041 527EL)

TO BAVA

NEY ITA 511 (IN 25295)

FURCHER ACTICH PROPOSED

_12024 4 MIN 56

CIS CIR

MULETING CLEARANCE

DISCUSSING HITH CRONERY.

201-168881

Galhar

CAE/III

IT IS FOREIDDEN TO ¡LANE À

ОЧЕВТІСЕ"!""=

COPY OF THIS NESSASE

Esis inc.

---

## Page 21

14-1000

SESHET

H8-4-1731

JUN 4

1956

Cutes of Station, Habaos

Chief, WHD

ReforancEs

AdEdnistrEtivo

Arthur O. VAIVAJA, InCTORSe In Salary

1011-4-2577

bo

HEH-k->710

I. Attached, los Station Illes, la a cory of a now contract anondrent

providing for an incrauso in salary and related capensation fur

Subjoot, as rocommended in Reference "a." The increasa was effoo-

81v9 1 April 1950.

20

The question of staff status for VAIVADA, as raisod by Roferanso ra,"

18 a rather lavolved ceo, and 10 being handled separataly.

Station vill be adulaed regarding any action taken in this rospect.

J. C.

• KINO

Chief, WhD

29 Азу 1956

Attachment

l contract amendment

Distribution

3 - Habana w/attachment

• - WH/III/Cuba/Chrono

1 - WH/Fa1lrcom

WH/IIJ/Caba

Ma. BATARAITH, CAN/IN

SEBREL

201-168881

---

## Page 22

14-00000

DATE :

356 LK/RFL

01 JUNE 1956

TO

:

DIRECTOR

FROM : HAVANA

ACTION

6H. 5

INFO: CI, CA/LES FI/OPS 2, FI/RI 2, S/C 2

•CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTINO

HAVA 541 (IN 25296)

TO: DIR

RE: HKHN 1707

2000Z 1 мн 56

ROUTINE

PRECIDENCE

CITE: HAVA

VIEW IPCOMING RENEWAL AUPHODARCH PROJECT RECUEST STATUS

OF EFFORT PROVIDE VAIVADA WITH

THIS WAS

DISCUSSED WITH

EARLY 56.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE. CODY NO.

201-168881

---

## Page 23

14-00000

SECRET

29 Kay 1956

JEHORANDUM FOR: Chief, FI

VIA: FI/Projects Branch

SUBJECT:

Arthur G. VAIVADA (P/A Protect AMPHODARCH)

REFERENCE:

FI lemo of 13 December 1955

1. Referenced menorar. lum requested that in Division fordard

to Chief, FI, on or about 29 lay 1950, a report concerning slans

for Improving VAIVADA's

2.

Negotiations are currently underway for the estenlismant

of vAIvADA

ArE HULARCH.

Gthin T. Flynn

J. Go KING

Chlor, oston taphore ariston

SECRET

---

## Page 24

14-00000

SECRET

AIR

A Pisst

:10H4-1770

MAY 2'S 1EG

Chief of Station, Babassa

Cases, KHD

siministrative

ArthUr O, VAIVALA, Contreot Assimant

lo i recent raling by the Cifico of the General Comeal hao ended the pay-

neut of allounnoos, as such, to controt parrional.

In tho future thoro

mounto merloualy paid sa allavances vill cons under the honding al

copensation.

2.

Sinoo copensation le recablo, sharr allamncos una not, adiltional

Rajastentr bavo bean mido to componente for tur loeros Incurred in the

VAIViDA's oontract hae hean so adjusted, "Id It 1a balloved

ho u1ll find the nos quartere nna cont of living figures to be equitablo.

The mpecifle changes are ao 80ll0188

SLATTERE

ld "allowancs" (non-tamble

82.100.00

82, 575.00

COST CP STEREO

Old "211-m100" (san-tearblo)

$1,650.00

fias "compansation" (tezrble)

87,920.00

lowerded herwith aro the oriphral and one copy of an anandant=1

IVADA"s coutrast, which refleuts the above dasorlood adfurtmenti

Tha orfflnal should ba siguad and returned to Headquartars.

Ortg Bi I-contract admendment

21 HEy-1956-

-Dietrition: 3 - Rabenn v/attache

1 R1;1 Ma11room; 1-HIV III/ Cuba ChroDo-

J. G. KING, ChUR

-J-_C.19r0

_Chief, WHD

MH/III/cube/

deni

SECRET

201-168881

---

## Page 25

14-00000

SECRET

3 May 1956

HEHORANDUN POR: Contract Personnel Division

PLA

SURJECT

8 FI/Plans, Projeots

• Contract Arandmant, Arthur G. VAIVADA

le appear paden duty with this organisation on 1 Juno asis

as a contrsct agent.

From June 1949 through August 1953 lie bas

stationod In Costa Rica, ubere his record was outstanding and incuded

the successful

Ho was

subsequently given isadquartors training for several sontlis

and participated in PBSUCCESS.

3.

VAIVADA has been

In his present capaoity (P/A,

AKPHODARCH Projact) sinco July 1954. lis performance there has con-

sinuad to he outstandina.

"s has proved to be partioularly adept at

and his work has been highly praisad

by the chlor or station, rabana. In recommanding renewal of the

AXPIODARCH projoct recently, FI/Plans/Projects stated, vita reference

to TAIVADA, that be "has abriously toen a valuable, duep cover agent

handler during sir years of service for WH." le had been qualified

previoualy as the most valuable agent of the san Jose station.

There are sufficient funds in the AXPHODARCH project (approved

23 Decomber 1955 for the perlod 1 August 1955 through 31 July 1956) to

provida for the above-requestad increase. in-salary..

Such an inorease

vill bo spacifically provided for in the next project reneval request.

VAIYADA has been at lils present salary lovel since July 1954.

J. Go KINO

Chles,-Hestern Herdsphere Divislar

MENS

SECRET

C0X: =852 DIA

---

## Page 26

14-00000

SECRET

18 48511 1956

KEFDRAHDUH FORS Contract Pereancol Division

ЗИВЛЕСТ

• Arthur do JAIVADA

Thore follous information regarding the present statue of Arthur

O. VAIVADA, BE requested by your dirision in a nocont 105018al sena-

полота:

3. PCS Statlon - gabssa

Do MarItal-Dopendoney St: us -

wife and tao children (uges

5 and 7) loving with subject

In Babana.

subjeat le currently recalving a quartors allamnce of

82,100 рот аппив.

FIV dily Cuba

Distribution:

Or1g & I - Addrassee

1 - HH/III/Cbrono

IX - TAIVADA PILO

SECRET

201-168851

---

## Page 27

14-00000

In comestion tith the Inforation furliahed on tha following

cartrest agent(e) regarding the tebility of Allotence Paymento,

the Contract Persinzal Diviston is roquasting the follenng In'orsation

1n order to adjust tira contract to provido add1t1032l coapensatioa

to affoot the increased ter Ilablisti.

HARR

VAIVADA, Arthur Co

LIPORHAT ION REQUESTED

PCS Station

(a)

(0)

(0)

Harital Statue

do

Husher of dapsudents

2o location of depandants

Is he moniting a quartero allosaros os

dosa la have turnlated quartors in lou

al En allorance,

SiCK

---

## Page 28

14-00000

Date:

Mr. Arthrir G. Valvada

Deas Ms. Valvada:

Reforence la made to your contract with the Unitad Stated Govarrment.

ao represented by the Contracting Officos, effective l August 1954, a8

amended.

Elfettiva 1 April 1956, said contract, an amanded, do further amended

as followo:

(a) The figure $5000 in the first sentence of paragraph 1(a)

1a increased to $5915.

(b) Tha figure $2575 in the first sentence of paragraph 1(b)

to increased to $2960.

(c) The figure $1920 In the flest dentence of paragraph l(e)

ls Increasad to $2175.

All other terms and conditions of the cortraci, an amendod, remala

in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY.

Contracting Oflicer

APPROVED:

---

## Page 29

14-00000

SECRET

AHA

1064-4-1609

MAR 3 ^ 1956

enter of station, Mabena

Chief, HiD

Oparatlanal/ RUTUBE

PrODEBEL FTODOtIOn of Arthur Go PAIVADA:

To Peadquartora dest foole Rhat the parfariance of Arthur. do VAIVADA has

Doen seat as to marrant promotion fras llo prosont grade (ague aloat to a

G5-9) to tha egulvalent of a es-1l, and proposes to reconsend such patio

20n 18 the field concurs. An OASIS TOplE STaR the flold U12I facilItato

arrant astles on this matcer.

J. C. KIO

Chlor, WH

286 Karch 1956

-Habana =

1

1

= WH/III/Chrono

- Wh/Hailroon

1 - BI

HH/10T/Caba

desn

3. C. KIHU

H. GALBRAITH

SECRET

201-168681

---

## Page 30

4-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

-—

FROM:

INSTRECTIONS: Officer desiznations should te used in the "TO" calumn. Under each comment a lino should bo drawn across sheet

and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column.

Each officer shouid initial (check mark insufficient)

befare further routina.

This Routing and Record Sheel should ber-lurned to Registry.

TELEPHONE

но.

LOH III

TO

Cuba

DATE

DATE

23 Fe

P00%

OFFICERS

IRMALS

TELEPHORE

1936

COMMENTS

NICO

TWO'D

Central Coura

= astana

1708

V

1656 24

SECRET

ти

nemo to files (by4)

not least bit

enthusiastic about

proposal set to triherein.

Is wortig ou

Lairs

which o risinally succated

and i

stanty recome in

+4 17/4/56

11.

to- VANADA file):

1793

7793

15.

TAPaSS 610

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

208168851

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 31

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 32

14.00000

---

## Page 33

14-00000

Date:

Mr. Arthur G. Valvada

"Dear Mr. Vaivada:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government,

as represented by the Contracting Officer,

amended.

effective 1 Auguat 1954, as

Ellective 1 January 1956, said contract, as amended, la further

amended by deleting paragraphs one (1) and two (2) and all reference to

Federal taxes and subatituting in lieu thereof the following:

Compensation.. In full consideration for the purchase of certain

information and services, you will receive from the Government, payable in

such an approved manner ad you may direct in writing, the following:

(a) Compensation calculated at the rate of $5060 per annum; and

(b) Additional compensation for quarters procurement for you

and your dependenta presently calculated at the rate of $2575 per annua

and applicable only to your initial permanent post of assigument ovar-

BeaR. As this additional compensation is based upon quarters costa

at said post, it is subject to unilateral adjuatment by the Governwent

whenever warranted by a change in the factore allecting its initial

establishment. Quarters will not be furnished vou bu the Government

(c) Additioral compensation for cost of living expenses (other

than quarters) for you and your dependents presently calculated at

-tba-rate-of-$1920-per annum and applicable only to your initial per-

manent post of assignment overseas. As this additional compensation

is predicated upon the comparative cost of living between Washingtoz,

D.C. and your overseas post

family status and basic

compensation, it is subject to unlateral adjuatment by the Government

whenever warranted by a change in the factors affecting its original:

establishment.

Taxes.

(a) As your legal relationship to the Government is that

of an independeat contractor, all amounte-paid directly or guaranteed by the

Goverement under Paragraph one supra, are reportable as income under

existing Foderal income tax laws and regulations...

(b) In viet of the security consideretion: invalred, tha

Government agrees, at your request, to withhold Federal income taxes from

the monies due you under this agreement in an amount equivalent to the United

States income tax withholding schedule based upon your taxable income hero-

under and

present exemption(s). Sume so withbeld will ba paid over to

SEURET

201: 165751:

---

## Page 34

14-00000

tes late nal Revenue Service. You acknowledge that this lo an accommodation

on the part of the Government and does not release you from fulfilling your

obligatione ander oxiating Federal income las laws and regulations. You will

be instructed as to tha method to be followed in making timely tuling of roturns,

catimates and payments in order to preserve security.

All oller terms and conditiona aí tde contract, as amended, remain

ta full force and elfact.

You will please indicate your approyal by signing in the space provided

below.

UNITED STATES GOVRNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

Arthur G. Vaivada

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

SECRET

---

## Page 35

14-00000

SECRET

AIR

HKH-h-1773

Chief, WH

Chief of Station, Habana

5 July 1955

igoris and Projects/LUTUBE

Arthar 0. Valvaia

REF: HKH-H-1213, 24 June 1955

In socordanse ulth reference requeat, attached la Vaiveda's contrast

amendment signed by him and ultressed by

A copy'is being

rotained by the statica.

Attachments

Contreat Anondment (251pl.)

Diatri bations

- 3 = tiash a/att.

2 -8120 (23-88)

• 1 July 1955

- obd

SECRET ample, 101511

COPY

19568-434

---

## Page 36

14-00000

A SECHET 2

ALE

RIF 101213

CriAl GlStetion, latana

Chief, WilD

24 JUN

1955

Agento and trojecta/situa

Contract inTidanEt fOr arthrs Go PAIVADA

lose onlos al the attachsd contract asansent ars bolse ¿emaniod

So doniora vil the MU SUlARi potoy of accoroirting Cortmot

Dio sarate to be vitshaid fras taoir coathly terable 1: 003 v111

to an anjunt qquivalent to that Listod in tho united states 13c0ss

son asthholding solodule based unen tho numbss al enapiiona cinined.

It 16 SAUNgRAd that VAIVADA sIgO alL coutes of the enondrant and

Indicate shareas is the bloat apsee provided, the number of exerp.

tions no tailos to airis.

It 1a suggested that VANADA eless aB

son omegations so possiblo in opdor that a sufficiens abount of

Boney ney la vietnali to covar Rio catara tax.

Ons espy of the armandat shouln to rotalned ty Stallon Fatana eno

the puzalaing coples asa 25 to saturad to Fondguestero.

J. Co AIRO

Attacheronts

1. 00p803 of Contrast Anendrent

89 бсєs 1935

DINETIDNLIONE

1 - W5/212ro0m 1/0-att.

} - WH III/Chrono v/o atto

- Subjeat

S. C. KINO

CHE

see NKId A. 1293 for reply

SECRET A

хот-

O. PL. DOERPLINGER

CHH/III-

Tantals

---

## Page 37

14-0000d

NOTE TO:

SECRET

WH/FI/ Culma

The attached amendment is forwarded to you for pouching to

the field to conform with the new Agency policy in accommodating

Contract Agints by withholding from their monthly taxable incom:

arrounts equivalent to the United States income tax withholding

schedule based upon the number of exemptions claimed.

It is suggasted that you forward a note with the amendment

suggesting that the individual claim as fow exemptions as possible

in order that sufficient monies nay be withheld to cover the entire

tax.

JUHN L. BISCHOFF

Chief, Special Contracting,

Allowances and Processing

Staff.

Return Orig d Ice of amendment

to SCAPS.

bosic document

to HKH-1213

SECRET

---

## Page 38

14-00000

Pers

15 deseary 1795

M2S397131 POBS CaseS of incralling LD/P

22NBCFE

ASEAT SO FATHE (?)

FETCHES ES

lo Into 1a an laterla senstantam serarding the enlaci mattere

ritaly to

SOPOSE dOTEONLY tO LO CELES, UNI INTLALODO

with respot to pereath love as to seg the mene, hen not

¡emate potle to reido for lie OUlotison el. tiLs astaned, is

to mit in the deld satiar tian et intertatio to no tind toni

the isrance Linalal, as it this inta, has est sabra tie action requestedo

PoSELIN ElEs ItO ASTUTENCE liat It Euzli lo acled on iFadisrelyo

so cAls, lInars rision, las Lis acted of tüla entror and la

Baling ta nanasty artion to secilliate the callottios at the aapses0.

ho A dotalled report sa roguested ulll le funlined as 500 8a

p95014160

1154512781398

15102458 717161o

leineroctor: Deless

208-16.8881

---

## Page 39

14-00000

702986019049510 15701

SECRET

Dear Mr.

Valvada

Reference is made to your contract (850

certs) effective

1 Auguss 195€

with the United States Government, as

represented by the Contracting Officer, for the (purchase) poste

5355105697of information and services of a confidential nature:

Effectiva 1 January 1955, said contraci (asteeded) is

Fairs) amended by deleting therein all refarence to your pay-

ment of Fediral taxes and substituting in lieu thereof the following:

"'While it is recognized that you are an independent contractor.

the Govarnment at your request and in viaw of security consid-

erations involved agrees to withhold from the monthly taxable

income due you under this contract which is payabl: on and after

1 January 1955 amounts equivalent to the United States income

lax withholding schedula based upon I'1/0!2) prevent

exemption(s). Sums so withhuld will bi paid over to the

Internal Revanue Survice. You acknowledge that this is an

accommodation on the part of the Government and does not

relieve you from fulfilling your obligations under existing

Federal income tax law, and regulations.

You will be

instructed as to the method to be followed in making timely

filing of returns, estimates and payments in order to pre-

serve security.'

All otber terms and conditions of the contract (sast

remain in full force and effect.

You will please indicate your appfoval by signing in the space

provided below.

UNITED-STATES-GF-AMERICA

BY

Rate Preser

Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

Asther 6. Vaiis da

WINESS:

APPROVE.

SECRET

1Qan.55

---

## Page 40

14-00000

ATA

SECRET

P1T-A-1310

Chief, WHD

Habana

15 Decenter 1954

OCS Guatenals

CON Hexico

Operational

1.

On about 20 Rovember 1954, Arthur G. VAIVADA (Identity A) net Subject

by chanco on the street in Rabena. Valvada ststes that he knew subjeet fron

February to kay of 195h in Guatenala City there they lived. in the same apart

mant bulldine. Apparently Valvada's viie vas of considerable assistanco to

when the latter was sick and by the time Valvada left Guate

nais, s fairly good triendship har arisen between the two families.

was cultivated by Vaivade becauso uf

crown high

LaTO) CP contects in Guatenala. Apparently

was of sane assintance

2.

La & Cubar, bord in

Cuba.

Ho in currently a political uriter

BatLote magaziso.

Ho l0 parTied to

of

Cuba and

has one child six months of age. They are currently residing with a sister

10-1853 111

Habana. Subject BE SOrO or l083 an exile alter

10 March 1952 because of his opposition to Batiste. He vent to Mexico firot,

and than recoived a fairly well paid job in the loveruent commist radio

headquaTiers 1n Guatenala, vinere ho vas a political conentetor und radio

30

Valvada plans to continue here in Cube his friendshio with Subleat

Attachmentas

= soperato cover enclomire (to Merico &-Guat) =

DiStrIbUtIONS

3 - Wasb

1 - Mexcloo v/encl.

1 - Quatenala v/enal.

F1168

120 Deceaber 1052 SHK/esp

SECRET

201-168881

fEr ESH 43-26

---

## Page 41

14-00000

SECRET

AIR

HK-H- 778

AUG 2 0 1954

Chief

Habana

8 Chief, WHD

Operational

-AMPHODARCH

Reference: HAVA-926 (IN- 25759); DIR 10892; DIR 10893

1.

Operational, clearance has been obtained for Arthur G. VAIVADA on 22 July

195% as a replacement for Wallace C, RIKON in Projoct AMPHOMARCH.

2. VAIVADA has been a KUBARK contract agent since July 1949. His 1n1t1al

assignsent was in Project HIMANOID in Costa Ries. wherel

He was rocalled to Headquarters in the fall of 1953 to par

ticipate in a sintlar project in Argentina, which could not be carried -

* out because of refusal of the Argentine Coverrment

Recently he was in PBSUCCESS with additional duties

he has completed three years of work at the University

of Costa Rica and has one sore year to finish for his B. A. degree 1i

econonice. Is previous work as a contract agent has been excellent.

3o

VAIVADA"s ney contract becones effectiva on 1 August 1954 anid runs POs

"two years. He salary vill be $5060.00 annually (GS-9) and will be en-

titled to an equivalent quarters allovance.

transportation for VAIVADA,

his dependents, and household effects,.

together with por diem in leu of

subsistence-in-the-course-of-the-travel to Cuba is authorised. He 1a

entitled to death and disability benefits under the Federal Eaployees

Cozpensation Act, to continuance of pay and allowances under the Missing

Persons Act, and to 14 days of annual leave per calendar year. Although

VAIVADA 18 expoctod to

J. C. KI

SECRET

201. 168881

---

## Page 42

14-00000

H:KH.-778

Page 2

4o

Duflag the month of hu vat the fallowing 'expenses for VAñtADA ore antial-

pated la sculcion to the 1450.00 monthly namally tourtod by ilkul under

PrOjOCK AFTIODÄNCH:

Companzation (059)

122.07

Alonances (post differential)

137.50

Traval in Cubs

• 25.00

Operational experses

83.34

Transfer allovanco

150.00

Living quarters

150.00

Transportation lOs VAIVADA and

farally to Cuba

340.33

TOTAL

41, 307.71.

It 18 enticipstad that cho braalidon of anaval exponces for projoot

AMPHODAPC! biLl bo as follower

Compentation (Ting)

Allovences (post distorentia))

¡ravel In Cuba

Oporational Expenses

Living questors

Irensfer allovance

(august 1954 orly)

transportation for VAIVADA and

fanlly (Aurust 295k only)

(September 1954 only)

$ 5,060.00

1,630.00

300.00

1,000.00

1,800.00

150.00

340.23

300.00

5ã0, 400.23

Tho Miasion 18 encouraged to sake 1t8 om cassanta on tha abora cosperses.

-6. 00:28-1025-1954-VAIVADA-Left-horo-for

for a discusedon

• Vlinãi soo to loave

for Habana on 31 jali.

"pon arrival, ho sould roriotor as the Padiard llotel

and would orot thero for a fon days shile loaking for noro permanent quartora.

To. The Medical Offlea at Hoodquartore has found VAIVADA phyalcally qualified for

full dutios.

PrOJoct AHFRODARCH 10 up for renal on 1 Septeaber 195k. The Hendquarter'g

deak plena lo havo tho perfod covered by tho project correspond to that of

---

## Page 43

14-00000

KKH 4-778

VAIVALA's contract bich the tarainatios coning on 32. July 1955. Al that

stra the project may bo renewed lor a your to calneide with the second year

of VAlVily a prodant contraot.

The Mlasian will bo rotisin then approval

la granted.

C.

Chief,

10 August 1954

Distribution:

3 - Hebana

1

- WH/III/Chrono

L - RI/DEF

I'sort

HERE

---

## Page 44

14-00000

SECRET

Date:

Mr. Arthur G. Valvada

Dear Mr. Valvada:

Reference ls made to your contract, as amended, effective l September

1953 with the United States Government, ad represented by the Central

Intelligence Agency, for the purchase of information and services of a confi-

dential nature.

Ellective 31 July 1954, said contract is hereby terminated by mutual

consent of the partles thereto and in lleu thereof the following contract is

substituted:

The United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence

Agency, hereby contracte with you for the purchasa of certaln information

and selated services of a confidentlal nature under the iollowing terme and

conditions:

1, Compensation. In full consideration for the parchase of such infor-

mation and serviceo, you will be pald an amount calculated at the rate of

55060. 00 рет аппит.

Payments will be made as directed by you in writing

la a manner accapiablo to CIA. No taxes will be withheld from this amount,

but it will be your responsiblity lo report such Income under existing Federal

income tax laws and regulatlone.

2. Allowances. Ellective upon your arrival.at your permanent post

of duty overseas, you will be entitled to:. (a) A Quarters allowance equivalent

to that granted & GS-9 Government employee stationed at the same permanent

poor of duty.

This allowance will bo at the maximum rates prescribed in

the Standardised Regulations (Government Civiliano, Foreign Areas. No

accounting for thla allowance will bo required by Cli. In the event toat

Quarters are provided by your cover facility, you will not be entitled to the

Quartera allowance herein indicated.

(b) Cost of living allowances is

conformance with the Standardized Reguistions (Government Clvilians,

foreign Areao).

3. Travel. You will be advanced of selmbursed funds for the follow-

ing travel and transportation expenaes:

(a) For you from Washington, D. G. to your permanent post of duty

÷098

88B.

(b) For your dependente and your household effects from your old to

your now permaneni posi oi duty overseas.

(c) For you alone for authorised travel within your operational area.

(d) For you, your dependents and your household effects from your

permanent post of duty overseas to your place oi recorded residence

upon the satisfactory completion of the terme of this contract of any

renewal thereof.

STONET

31 ques st

501-168.881

---

## Page 45

14-00000

SLENST

You will entitled to per diem In lieu of subsistence in the course of such travel.:

All travel, transportation and per dier provided for under this paragraph must

be properly authorized, and expenaes incurred hereunder are subject to pay-

ment and accounting in compliance with CLA regulationa.

Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for

necessary operational expenses including, but not limitri iù

entertainment and the purchase of information as specifically approved by

Such funds will be subject to accounting in substantial compliance with CLA

regulatlons.

5. Benefita. (a) You will be entitled to death and disability benefite

equal to those authorized under the Federal Employees' Compénsation Act, as

amended. Claims by you, your heirs, or legal representativas under this

paragraph will be processed by ClA in accordance with its procedures in euch

manner as not to impair security.

(b) You will be entitled to continuance of pay and allow-

ances in a manner similar to that set forth in the Mising Persone Act

(50 U.S. C. A., App. 1001-1015).

(c) You will be entitled to fourteen (14) calendar days'

leave per contract year. Such lears may be accrued during the termos this

contract or any renewal hereof but payment in lieu of unused leave will not

be authorised. Such leave may only be taken at times and places approved in

Usel. Any sums or substantially similar benetite or allowances

бесвічед ІґОП

will de.

used to offset those due under this contract by the Government. Sums, "

similar benefits or allowances thus secelved are acknowledged and agreed

to-be payment-by-the-Government within the provisions of this contract. You

will report all sums or substantially similar benefits received at least every

six (6) months during the term of this contract.

B.

Execution of Documonts.

you assume the custody of government funds or take title of record

to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which property

has in fact been purchased with monies of the U.S. S._Goverament.-yuu hereby-

recognise and acknowledge the existence of a trust-relationship, either

express or constructive; and you agree to execute whatever documents may

be required by CIA to evidence this relationship.:

Status. You aro not an employee di ine üniied States' Government

under this agreement and are not entitled to any benefits normally incident

to an employes siatus, except as specifically enumerated herein.

10. Secrecy. You will be required to keep forever secret this contract

and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released

is writing by CIA from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation

---

## Page 46

14-00000

pa?!

SSCRET

¡of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecutlon under the Espionago

Lawa, dated 25 June 1948, as amended, and other applicable laws and regula-

itions.

11. Instructions. Instructiona receired by you from CLA in brieflag,

training os otherwise are a part of this contract and are Incorporated herein,

provided that such instructions are not inconsistent with the terme hereof.

12. Unauthorised Commitments. No promises or commitmenta pariali-

lag to righis, privileges or benefita other than those expressly stipulated in

willing in this agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding on the

Government.

-....

13. Term. This contract la effective as ef l August 1954 and shall

continue thereafier for & period of two (2) years unlesa sooner terminated by

ClA olther:

(2) By thirty (30) days' actual notice to you from CIA, or

(b) Without prlor notice, in the event of a breach of this contract by

your vlolation of the security provisions hercof or by your other-

Wlee rendering yourself unavallable-for acceptable service.

Subjoct to the arallability of appropalations, this agreement may be renewed

for succeedlva perlode of one year each upon notice from ClA accepted by you.:

In the event of voluntary termination for causa by CIA prior to expiration of

this agreement or any soneral thereof, you will not be entitled to return travol

expenses to the United States. Termination of this agreement will not release

you from the obligations of any security oath you may be reguired to take.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

BY

Special Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

Arthur G. Valvada

WITNESS:

APPROVED::

SECRET

ти пл?!

---

## Page 47

14-00000

-...

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

UHIT

EXT

DATE

2555

28 eut 1954

CHIE

FROM :

DIRECTOR, CLA

сотй"!!

INFO: COP, FI, FI/OPS, FI/PLANS, FI/STC, FI/R| 2

2

BOUTIRA

5

DIR 1('E93 (OUT 65223)

17217 29 JUL 54

TO:

SHAVA

RE: DIR: 10892 OUT 65221) PARA 2

CITE: DIR

TRUE NAME IS HR. ROSS i. CROZIER.

POTMAEEOTNCE

END OF HUSSAGE

201-168881

-CO0!

SECRET

HERELAINE SEE:GET

IT IS FOREIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

Copy Ha

---

## Page 48

14-00000

PECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

.: S0O (11116r)

DATE: 29 July 19544

FROM

Spee191 Support Stall, Madderl OffiCe

SUBJECT: VAIVADA, Arthur G. (p)

Subject has been evaluated by tha Madical Office and found

physteally quallfied for full dutios (ganeral).

10/BJCInj8

Distributions

Brigo • Addrescoe

- WH/3

FIlo

dudidstrative OffleeT

SEGRET

201-168581

---

## Page 49

14-00000.

SECRET

SECURITY

IBFORMATION

COVERT PERSONNEL SERVICES FORM

INSTRUCTION FOR AGENT PAYMENT

TO: Finarce Division

Date _

To July 1956

1. Pending my departure fron Feadquarters, I authorize the Finance

Division to pey all monies due me in cash to my designated Case Officer

or his authorized successor for delivery to me.

Effective upon my departure, I authorize and request that payment

of monies due me be made as follows:

_(even dollar anount) to be paid to me by my over-

BEaB

station. The firat payment to be made on or about

covering the pay period beginning -

and ending

b. The balance or all as the case may be, of compensation, allowances,

and other monies due me to be deposited in the - regular - special -

(cross out one) checking account (savings accounts and Bank Foreign

Branch accounts not peritted) as follows:

(1)

Name of account as it appears

on bank recorde

toas to Croster

(2) Address on record with bank.

(3) Name of bank. ..

(4) Address of bank .

1§0S

rational 614y janis 01÷64-8071

street

and number)

Low fork 15, "o To

(City and State)

3. Special provisioos:

Total salary and allorancos to be pold into bank eccounto

Artlad

Signature (Pseudonyn)

* If-checks are to be dram

by nore than one person,;

account should be joint.

Recelved Finance Division:

BY

Date _

201. 168886

AN F

B 1955 59-8;

SECRET

---

## Page 50

14-00000

4r14..4

SECRET

SECURITY INFORXATION

COVERT PERSONNEL SERVICES FORM

JOB SUMMARY

Pseudonya Arthur C. VAIVADA

-D1T18100 _

WHI11

Project_

Case Officer

Date

(Il this Information is contained in an approved Project, this

form need not be completed.)

I: Duties: (General Description of the Duties to be performed)

II. Qualifications: (Indicate qualifications applicable to assigned duties)

a. Experience: Four years experience as a contract. agent in tiD

b. Education: (Check) High School _ College _X Post Graduate_

c. Language: English and Spanish - fluent

d. Other:

III.

IV.

Present Job and salary:

Formerly raceived $4205 plus allowances.

inis is to

be raised to

$5060 per annur plus allowances under net contract.

Cover Activity: PROPOSID ESTABLISHID (Cross out one): Give general

description, 1.e.,

201-6FPTL

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

SIGNATURE OF PROJECT OFFICER

WHD/I:1

F05 1885 82-894

108

---

## Page 51

11.00000

SECRET

IBAD QUARTERS CASE OFICER:

DITSION

AHD

STATION

AAAL, CUPA

Poon lio.

2104 5t=9e

Ertension_

2355

Date

_22 J22T. 195L

1. It is requested that an amendment to tie Subject Project be asproved

verein contract agent rthli G. VIVADA (P) will replace contract egent Hallace C.

RIKON (P). Operational Bearance for the use of VAIVADA in Project APRODiRCH vas

granted 21 July 1954 (0.C. #25507).

2. Project AlPFODARCH is already approved for $5400 for the year ending 31

August 1954. This arandment will irerease the cost of UPHODICH during the reraining

$1202.74

month of this approved period by belfatt. RIOUS somersation, allowances, and expenses

for the same period is figured to be 3450,00. A brealdown of YAIVADA's expenses for ibe

period 1 August through 31 August 1954 18 as follows:

Compensation

(G5-4)

421.67

Allowances

137.50

Travel in astor Casta

25.00

Operational Espenses

83.34

Transfer allowance

150.00

Living quarters

150.00

fransportation l. ..

In Vairache rand famil

340.23

TOTAL

$1307..74

3. For a successfal substitution of VAlVADA in place of PINON in Project APRoDACH

in Hatana

tt is necessary that the two contract agents be in contact/during the period 1-31 hugust

195h. Inmodiately following the subed son of this amondent covering that parlod, a

project reneval vill be drawn up contesplating the use of VAIVADA in the project on a

Jearly basis with at least a two year tour in view.

1502030

5. Arthur G. VAIVADA has been a contract agent In the enploy of NUEAK since July

1949, working in the FIAmIN Project

I ani tore recently in Frojeci..

previous work as a contract agent has heen excellent and it Is felt that with the subs

Eltation of #I VAIVADA fOr RIO!, a big Iprorement in the production of the project nat

be expocted during the coring year, MAlViDA, a U. S. citisen parried

---

## Page 52

14-00000

6. It is the consensus o opinion arong the interested officers at leadouarters ard

the Held that Mallace G. RIDll should be given tha opportunity of serving elsewhere in

in a locality and situation where he will have preater opparturity to

produce results. Plans are now being drawn up to shift RIKOll to another country 1n•

Septesber 1954 .

Approved:

Chief

J. C. KING, CHE

Date

---

## Page 53

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMITION

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

Case Officer.

Division_ Hi

Tel. Ext: 2555

Date 22 July 1954

I.

General

A.

_B. Project APICNISCILC. Allot. No: 2517-211

D. PrETiOUS CIA

E. Category (Contract Employee, Contract Agent, etc.)

Contrech Agont

F.

Is individual presently engaged or has he ever been engaged by CIA or ite

allied activities 1n any capacity? Xea, Describe Contrace Agost alnce 151a

G. Security Clearance: Type Operational Date Ool. #25507-21-1ulz 12544

E. Pernanent Post (City and Country) - Hazand, Gabe

II. Personal Data

A. Citizenship MaSa

10B. Age 32__ C. MIlltery Status latoren

D. Legal Residence (City and Country) Starling, Illinoia

E. Current Residence (City and State)

F.

of Government Service (Military end Civilian) oner 12 yeaca

G. Has a draft deferent been obtained by CIA?_ Hang needed

.. 111. Coupensation

Ã.

Basic

B. Additional (Post Differential)

Profit participation or bonus

D. Total

CIA

COVER

:5060.00

5260.00

17 tA 17

IV.

Allovences: (Normally granted only

to residents of the [rited States)

A.

Living - quarters

B.

Cost-of-Living

C. Other

D. Total

E. Basis (1)

87+7-87

(2)

1800

$

1:50

150 (Bransfer)

(3).

Payments

What portion of coopensation and or allowances

flons

0baror:cno1 11

V.

vI.

VII.

A. With/Without Dependents B. Household Effects

C. Personal Vehicle -

Do IT with Dependents, state Relationship, Citizenship and birthdate of children:

Two ohil ran, both U.S. oftizone.

Expenses will be paid by:

F. Basis:

_ 3. Other.

Iressportation to tuba for TAIVADA and fEdly

VIII. Miscellaneous Benefits

A.

Death Benefits:

B. Disability Benefits: Per F.E.C.A.

C. Missing Persons ACt _ Ye. Stak leave.

D. Life insurance

Annual Leave.

1 Rehabilitation Rights-

_ Other-

Other

_E. Hospitalization

H. Creditable Service

_Ja=Other

Ix.

Term

A.

Duration (Days, months, years) two yearg. B. EPfective Date 1. Aug 1954

C. Renewable:

Termination Notice (No. of days).

I. Forfeiture of recura travel for resignatian prior to Contract Jera: Test Fo

X. Will individual take title to CIA property? Yes I Ho_

XI. Will ludividual work under "controlled conditions", 1.e. set office houre,

supervision, etc? Yes_ No

XII. Additional or unusual requirements, justifications or explanations

SENIOR STAFF APPROVING OFFICER

DIVISION APPROVING OFFICER

---

## Page 54

14-00000

Lone

SECRET

• (Then Fillad 10)

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

No: C-25507

TO: Chief, WH

Operational Clearance is granted for the use of intra Ga VAIVADA

- aB follows:

As requested in memorandum dated _ 12 tuT 1854

This clearance is for the specific use set forth above, and is

based upon an

appraisal-of-information-currently_available to this office.

It must be borne in

mind-that-this-clearance-is_in_no way to be construed as a guarantee Of subject'g

bona fides, but merely reflects that derogatory information, if any, has-been=

considered and evaluated for the instant purpose only.

Date_ JUL 2 2 1954

F1 / STC/SPB

CI

201-1688881

SECRET

тоти но.

59-47 PREVIOUS EDITIONS MOT TO BE USEO

108

---

## Page 55

14-00000

SIC/SPB

Chial, WHD

Requeat for Operational Clarance for use of Arthur a.

VAIVADA 1n PrOjOOt APHODARCH

19 July 1956

Roferenco 1a mado to Operational Claaranco Eo. C-25507, dated

• 23 Apr1l 195h, wherein the Subjoct wes cloared for use in Project PaSUCCEsS.

It 18 roquosted that Subjore non be clearad for uno in Project

AMPHODARCH.

3.

FRa, Parta I & II hato been subuitted to your office,

Groan List

Check No, 9467 uno subaltrod to STD and this offico mas informsd by pasto

on

16 july 1954 that no dorogatory inforiation on subjoct was as record with SiD.

d. C.

KI:0

Distributions

0r1g & 1

addresse

chrono

1 - AMPHODARCH P11O_

1 = VAIVADA P1lO-

201-168881

---

## Page 56

4-00000

MEMO FOR THE fiLE:

16 Jucy 54.

201-16

ETI

---

## Page 57

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 58

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 59

14-00000

---

## Page 60

14-00000

SECRET

-14 "22x

- 195-6

HEMORA DUM FORS SIC/SPS

JUBJENT

; OСП-

___-B/:90/Branch_ JU, Forwaräing

Part I, PRO, On — BONELia CROSSER

I. Forwarded herewith 19 Part I, PRQ, On

LOBS Lo Croalex

2o Bo A Green List name check (Form 51-125) has been

semested,

The Registry ard WID operational Filea hava bean

chocked and no infortation of irestigative value or security Ioterest

was found on the subject.

Local Field Traces contain no derogatesy iniormation.

SIC/S'B OR-

Part II, PRO, 1s being forwarded unde? zenerandur for

_o sated

14 July 1954

Lo Additional comments (1I arT)s

C. KING, Cher, Hu

SECRET

201-168881

---

## Page 61

14-00000

- 155

MEHORA RUM FORS

SUBJECT

SIC/SPB

Part II, FRQ, 02

REN EREICB

TY 1956

Poinarding Part I, PRO.

Provious DE obtainad in I0, 68, datad 19 July 1949,

Go tadaada

Oparational...•Security..

•W'araice 18 requested In

ordes" to empior

___'=a (Indicates US,

Et toss and talie as asalamantes

PT or i and gas alitan contrart.)

To rocalvo a salary of 85060.00 ammally, plao-allorancos.

To repLace RIKO in project NIPOD:PCH.

J. Co KiNO, cales, Hen

SECRET

201-168881

---

## Page 62

14-00000

SECRET

THIS BLANK FORM IS CLASSIFIED:

SECURITY INFQGMSTION

1. SUM'EC!

CHAME, 19 POMAN LETTER

'D IN MERMAL ORDER)

2.

ROSS LAStOr CROZIER

ALIASES, VARIANT SPELLINGS, CIC NUMBERS, ETC.

RESI

SE. TO GREEN LIST

REQUEST NO. 9467

DATE OF REQUEST

13 duLY 1954

Lestor Ross CROZIER

REQUEST FROM

NAME OF ORIGIMATING OFFICER

3- BIRIN DATE

20 June 1922

4.

BIRIN PLACE

Da Kalb, I121n010

5. CITIZENSHIP

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

KH/III

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

2555

2104 quartore!

14. WAS CONTINUING SEARCH REQUESTED?

YES

-NO

15.

TYPE OF REQUEST

PRESERT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

Hea in lashiniton arsiting asságament to

Cuba.

_ FIRST TIME SUBMITTED

I ADDITIONAL DATA

COVER NAME

16.

INTEREST IN SUBJECT

ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY.

#OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

%. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

OTHER

irationa expolence has been In intallgen

1087. INFORMATION REQUIPED

wark tlih the armed ferdas of the u. S.

Callage education at the Ualv. of losta R160.

Derogatory.

B.

MILITARY SERVICE

SERVICE ARM, COUNTRY

U.So Arty

U.Se AAr PRECa

9. PAST OCCUPATIONS

ACTIVITY

SFECIALTY

LOCATION

DATES

U. So and

OperAtions and Intelilgence - CBI Theatre 1940-45

Albroots Flolde Canal Zone 1946-49

LOCATION

DATES

stovedora and Labor foreman foe U.S. Havy

Canal Zone

Jen.-Aps. 146

CIA

Parama: and Costs REes 1948-40 data

10. DESCRIPTION

11. SPOUSE

TIF

Arger

12. OTHER MEMBERS:.

T0 8al]

U. So cil

13. OTHER SIGNIFFE.

Cathollo

INSTRUCTIONS:

FORM

MAR 195; 51-125

(HAIR)

broken

(RACE)

white

(OTHER)

Casta Bloan

Hatered with the U.S. Babaasy an

ATTACH EXTRA SHEETS WHEN NEEDED

208-168881

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/STD.

SECRET

SEE CS1-10-7

(01

---

## Page 63

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY INFOPMATION

TO:

18 ful 64

FROM:

FI/STD Is

SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FIISTO BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

B. Law

4.

A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED MERETO.

c. —

WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN

THE REQUEST,

STD IS UNABLE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION

ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

• D.

FI/STO HAS NO PERTINENT INFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF A

CONTINUING SEARCH WAS REQUESTED IN SECTION 14.

INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU

AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE. Phoned, 16 Jul. 5%

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF

THE FOLLOWING:

Goes Fish FoT, I June 49.

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH

THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/STO.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FIISTO THE SHEETS

FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING

--NAME -CHECK.---PLEASE-DO-NOT-TIE-UP-FI/STD'S FACILITIES WITH-CONTINUING-SEARCHES

FOR-INFORMATION-THAT-IS-NOT-REQUIRED.

-TO:= _FI:/STD

DATE

FROM:

NAME

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

M620202

---

## Page 64

4-00000

(7)

Dear Mr. Crozier,

/ S80387

201. 168881

---

## Page 65

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG

UNIT

T.J.DESID.UD

WH HI

EXT

: 3229

DATE :

29 JUNE 1954

TO

'CHIEF OF KISSION, SAN JOSS

FROM : DIRDOTOS, CIA

CONF :

WH 4

SECRET

INFO S

DD/P-ADMIN, FI/ADMIN, PP 2, F1/RI 2

DIR 07067 (OUT 58460)

FOX SANJ

12422 30 JUN 54

ROT DE

PRRCEDEHER

CITES DIR

EEF 6 SAHJ 2282 (III 23202)

CALL REPUBLIC 7-381L BSTWEEN NINE A.M. AND FOUR P.M. CA ANY WORKING

DAY AFTER ARRIVAL HASH. ASK FOR IDEN.

END OF MESSAGE

file Viarada

201-168881

COOR

SECRET

DOZRFLINGER

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

AUTHENTICATIRO OUFICEN

Copy Ma.

---

## Page 66

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOU. DESIOND

UNIT

FXT

: HH II

: 3229

DATE

SECPRI

: 29 JUNE 1954

TO : CHIEF OF MISSION, SAN JOSS

FROM : DIRECTOR, CIA

CONE: WE 42

INFO: DO/P-ADMIN, F1/ADMIN, PP 2, F1/AI 2

6

DIR 07068 (OUT 58461)

TOS SANJ

REPE DIR

07067 (OUT 58460)

IDEN - TIll.

12422 30 JUN 54

ROUT INS

PRECEOLACE

CITES DIR

END OR JERUSAGE

file

vitrache

201-166881

s.C.

Heing

SEERS

Chase i Grink

ASINO

O'''CH' IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

AUTHINTICATINO OFFICER

Copy Ma

---

## Page 67

14-00000

d Do C767. 6071 11.4146

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE : 28 JUNE 54

TO

DIRECTOR

FROZE: SAN JOSE

HM H

DO/P-ADMIN, FO/ADAIN, PR 2, FI/RI 2

3

ROUTINO

14

6

SANJ 1282 (IN 23204)

TO: DIR

RE: DIR 06430 (OUT 57165)

05192 22 JUNE 54

ROUT INE

PRECRDENCE

CITES SSANJ

1o SUBUECT REF PLANNING DEPART

5 JULY VIA LACSAO

20 WILL PROCURE NEW PASSPORT LOCALLY FOR SELF AND SEPARATE

ONES FOR CHILDREN SINCE OLD ONE ALMOST EXPIRED.

30 FAMILY REMAINING SAN JOSE PENDING SUBJECTS ARRIVAL AT

NEW POST.

40 SUBJECT WILL PURCHASE ONE WAY TICKET

ONLY TO

PREVENT LOCALS BECOMING AWARE TRUE DESTINATION. WILL PURCHASE

• BALANCE PASSAGE AND ARRANGE RESERVATIONS TO HQS.

SO SUBUECT BEING GIVEN 30 DOLLARS TRAVEL ADVANCE.

60_ CABLE- CONTACT INSTRUCTIONS •-

END OF MESSAGE

bagend folder

SECRET

201.168881

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE Coxy Ma

---

## Page 68

14-00000

(6)

Dear Mr. Crozier,

1 SEGRET

201-168881

---

## Page 69

14-00000

(5)

June 15, 1354

Sincerely Jours,

Ross L. Crozier

1. 30027:

201-168881

---

## Page 70

14-00000 •

SECRET

(then Fillod In)

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

No. C-25507

TO:

Chief, wH

Operational Clearance is granted for the use of Arthur i. VATanI

As requested in zeno of 27 April 195L this clearance supersedes

thet of 19 July 1949 and permits

subject's use urder Froject

FBSUCCESS. Further,

this clearance is so amended to allo for

Subject's additional cuties

- as followe:

As requested in memorandum dated.

27 April 1954

-Thie clearance is for the specific use set forth above,

and is based upon an

appraisal of information currently available to tbis offico."

It must be borne in

mind that this clearance is in no way to be construed as a guarantee of subject's

bona fides, but merely reflects that derogatory information, if any, has been

considered and evaluated for the instant purpose only.

Date _ APR-2-8-1954-

7450/86

IC/Cr

8: 59-47 PREVIOUS

SECRET

BE USED

(8)

---

## Page 71

14-00000

.. (4)

Ross L. Crozier

Apto: 779

san dose, Costa Rica

Dear Sir. Crozier,

And thei

18837

201-168881

---

## Page 72

14-00000

(3)

ipto 779

Sir duce, Cogte 21r8

May 31, 195i,

The Pan-imerican Fourdation, Inc.

Вох 3537,

University Station,

Gainesville, Florida, U.S.A.

Dear Mr. Wilfus,

As a student o! economics with special esphasis on the Latin muerican areas, 1

As to my mualifications, I have attended the School of Econonies sciences at the

University of Costa Rica

fros 1949 throuch 1953. In all uy previous courses I

have dune above average, as can he attested by the schools concerned.

ly present desire is to continue my study of econonies at the University

of Habana for one year, or as lon as it may he deened necessary to outain a

Bachelor of Science rierree in econonics. I an also interested in the possibilit:

of having the scholarship renewed at

the end of the period, so that I nay be

Eccause I am a married san with tho

small children, I would like to inor whether the scholarship granted would be

sifficient to cover the cost of good and housine in addition to tuition, books, ard

the normal academic expenses, which I estimate to be about $3000.00 annually.

As to my personai history, I an a United States citizen and shall be 32 years

old in June.

I have served in the United States Army and Hir Force between 1940

and 1949, with the exception of an eicht month perind in 1945 and 1046.

which I served are India and Burma in World er II, and Panama after 1946.

The areas In

of uy long residence in Panana and Costa Rica I speak Spanish fluertly, as does my

wife who is of Costa Rican nationality.

As mentioned before, I hame two young

children born in 1949 and 1951 respectively.

_I realize_the-above_infornation-nay-be-insufficient-in-order to deternine-whether-

I qualify for a scholarship,-and I should be glad to-provide ary-additional inforsation

that you may require.

Please also send me whatever forms necessary for making formai

application for a scholarship.

Sincerely yours,

Ross L. Crozier

201-168881

---

## Page 73

14-00000

AID FOUCH

HUlato 910

26 MAY 1951

Ontal of Statioz, Castenala

LE COIS

Ti70s Wash

Adainistrative

repost on Asthur Go VAIVADA

Lo 81000 you no longer contonalato uning Arthur O. VAlVAnA, sule

you please trito a report on hio sour of duty vith luaterala Station,

End prEpare a personnal evaluation?

This action la to be completod at jour convenienco sad so not

to intarfoTo ulta importent operational dutles.

DUMBAR

бa/0

2a Hay 2953

Distolbations

GaBt - 2

tesh

81163.03

DESTAI

IL D'ESUCCESS /SEORE1

201-165881

---

## Page 74

14-00000

Ross L. Crozier

Apartado 7:9

San Jose, Costa Rica

Dear Mr. Crozier,

(2)

201-168881

---

## Page 75

4-00000

(1)

May 17, 195%

Sincerely yours,

Ross I. Crozier

201-166886

---

## Page 76

14-00000

SECRET

27 A8511 1954

AESSORANDULI FOR:

SIC/stn

ATLANOT

SUBJECT

: Clesrance for Artbur G. VAIVADA (PS) - PESUCCESS

Confirning conversation on 26 April 1954

FBSUCCESS, It 10 requested that Operational Clearance

10. 68, dated 19 July 1979, Granted to Subject under Projoct

now be enemied and brought up to date for subjeet's use on Project

in sedition, It is further requested that the cleerance 180ued

be so amanded as to also raflect sabject's additional duties

CHa

SECRET

201-168881

---

## Page 77

14-00000

UNCLASSIFLED

RESTRICTED

CONFIDENTIAL

SENDER MILL CIRCLE CLASS ATION TIP AND PETEY,

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

SECRET

10

INITIALS

GWs Dission

Kim: A Hande

112 at. I.

DATE

5

FROM

INITIALT

DATE

3106"7

• T

APPROVAL

ACTION

I COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

→ INFORMATION

DIRECT REPLY

PREPARATION OF REPLY

J SENATURE

RETURN

DISPATCH

→ RECONHENDATION

Romarks:

NOTE: Field ustified & contruct

new met seat at enter

File in VAIVADA forces

CONFIDENTIAL

BESTRICTED

UNCZASSIFIED

SECRET

SEPISA, 30-4

---

## Page 78

14-0000

MORD FORM IS 04

SEGRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Attention:

FROM :

SUBJBCT:

Chief /iH Division

Mr. Fanke

FD/0 & I/Agent Service Section

DATE: 29 Marck 1954

Offset Clause - Arthur E. VAIVADA

1. Reference is made to your renorantun dated 26 Febru-

ars 1954 concerning the necessity of deducting

fron salary due and parable

by CIA.

=5.

In this connection,

201-168851

SECRET

---

## Page 79

14-00000

SFGNET

SUB: Offset Clause - Arthur 3. VAIVADA

29 Kerch 1954

-2-

5. In this connecticn,

Subject sbowld be advised to

subalt a quarterly revort of all sume received. in the na

of allowences

Chief/Agent survice section

ARCEDE

1431

SEGRET

---

## Page 80

14-00000

SECRET DA

EAR POUCH

50657 452

party;

Chief of Station, Cuatenala

Chief, lif

Operational

lirthur Go VAIVADA

REP PENCE, 110G 4-687, paragraph 5

PIBAT/PES CCESS

In anguor to reference,

It has been determined by the appropridio

offico at lieadquariera that VAlVich 15 sot enlitlod to receivo compensation

from both this orrenization and

The enclosed

contract worduert has been stituen to provida for in offset between mib.

sect's salary fron this organization and

VAIVAnA should be Informed that lesdquartors in appreciative of

his ¿tartesa to this situation since 1t ll bo easier to sujust his

financial situation nou rather than have to turn back a fairly lurga em

of money in tha future.

It is to bo noted that the smenduent 18 written

In such a way that when he stone recolving the

payments at tho

end of his eligibility perlod, the fall mount os mau salary due 15o

this organisation will açala be desosited as beretafore.

J. Co KING

СЫВ

27 Hanch 195k

Distribution:

- Headquarters

3 - CUATEYALA

d. C. KNG, CHH

-J.=D--ESTERLINE:

JC DEBATED

201-168881

---

## Page 81

14-00000

AIR

Security Information

803-A- 667

Chief, WED

Chief of Station, Guatemala

Oporational

Referances:

Arthur i. VAIVADA

2 11 3223h

DIK 32690

GIAT 933

DIR 31729

INDO: Lincoln

guestion is thein

dispatch bains

8) GUAT 957 Vaulled lon

1o

As has alrondy

bses ranortod,

Arthur C. VAliaDe: and decondunts

arrived in Juutemala City on

2 January 1954.

Tho Diret ??

soveral

contacts with hit

successfully accor-lished on the

night of 4 January 1954.

Subject currently 1s living lenporarily

In

an apartuont hotel; however, ie has already ronted a smali,

Incongricuous apartment locatod in a riddla-class nolzhborhood.

He las purciased a for pleces o. Inexponsiio farnituro for the

avartuent and intondo moving hi. inmily to the premiaos vitaln

tho inmediate future.

Subject's choice of neighborhoods in hick

to reslie la holleres excellent.

The spartaant 18 located in a

falrly busy section of town, 19 on a busy streat served by rubllo

buses which trevol to all warts of the citr sad la of such todust

appearance that it will attract no attention.

SENNET

50r-168881

Securi! Information

COPY

350-247

Далти

---

## Page 82

14-00000

• ";

716G- 1-647

Page 2

28 January 1954

CEB/ enh

Distribution:

2aLine

3-Kash

1-F1]e8

Cyrus 2. Burnette

c!..

Security Information

35-6-3-247

---

## Page 83

14-00000

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Chief, Plans Staff, FI

FROM & Chief, ADD

SUBIBCI: Project

DATE: 18 December 1953

l. Froject

is being terninated as of 1 Decerber 1953 inasmuch as

has been denied entry

As of 1 Decenter 1953 he will have been transferred to the rolls of

PB Successo

The purpose of Project

was to provide for the covert training

and transfer of this contract agent fros

he would

40

5.

6o

Froject

31 July 1954

was approved for the period 1 August 1953 through

salary has been paid through loverber 1953 under this

project.

He has also been paid the anount of per den due him.

while in the lnited States in accordance with the project authorization.

There are no present outstanding financial corsittrents to

under this project.

трут. Сабин

#. B. Caldwell, Chief, r1/K1

(a) Original of the Approved Project Action

dated 12 August 1953

Approved:

26 January 1954

SECRET

501-16.8881

---

## Page 84

14-00000

SECRET

AREA DIVISIC TH

STATION

Buenos hires

HEADQUAR DRES CASE OFFICEILS

2215 V

Extension_

2298

Date

18 Deceaber 1953

The attached project 18 presented for terination.

Shief, branch II, iD

Hi. so Caldiell, Chief, FI/ia

22. Dee. 195i

Date

SECRET

---

## Page 85

14-00000

SECHET

16 December 1953

BELORANDUW FOR SILE

PROJEBT

1o

ras to have been dispatched

proper documentation from the

has been denied

20

There 1s attached hereto a cocy of a letter dated 6 October 1953 at

which

received from the

(This lstter, received on 24 Novenüer 1953 had previously been

sent to a nailinz adúress in Dayton Chio, namely el

Since the letter was unclained at

this address

having learned later that

an Army Officer

iriend of his had been shipped out), the letter ras returned to the

and was subsequently forwarded to

former address at

Alexendria, Va. The letter had

been postmarked at Dayton, Ohio, 19 October 1953.

3.

On 25 November 1953 while in contact rith the Agent he indicated the possibility

with whon contact is maintained, for the purpose of attempting to

assist agent at that end in having the proper entry permit issued. He also

indicated the possibility of returning to

and while in that area

Legitimately employed while awaiting another Agency

assignment. Inasmuch as a combination of factors lead to the conclusion

that it rould be unrise to attempt to exert other influence in an atienot

and for other

as vell as the time element which may be involved, the matter ras discussed

rath other representatives of it who desired to take the Agent over in

connection mith PB Success.

Lo Arrangements were set up for Agent to meet the Chief of the Guatanalan

Station. Subseguently, on 8 December 1953 Agent

was introduced

in a secure narner, to

by the writer.

will in the

Innediate future be handling]

in connection with certain operätional

matters and as of 1 December 1953

will be chargeable to PB Success.

50

In accordance with the provisions of the project,

was paid $350.00

for his November salary; $93.00

and $468.00 for his per dien to cover his period of time rhile in Covert

training.

6.

Proper receipts_ have_been forwarded to

Finance_ Division.

SECRET

201-1658.51

---

## Page 86

SECRET

7. It should be noted, that gent over a period of several contacts appeared

to be very cooperative and his attitude nas comendable.

When he first

learned that he had been denied entry

chagrined since he appeared to be set on an attempt to do a good job in

a "tight" area.

He had not given up hope to obtain proper authorization

and tas rilling to pursue the matter further since he felt over a period

of time he mould be allowed proper ertry authority. Ee suggested several

possibilities.

8.

Agent also expressed a desire to go to Cuba or anywhere else the Agency

felt he could be of best service to the gency regerdless of the difficulties

rithin reason, which nay have been imposed on him and his faily.

In view of Agent's past successful record with this lgency, in view of his

attitude, his future possibilities and his conparatively limited salary:

it was suggested to

that he might consider a raise in Agent's

10.

on 7 December 1953 advised that Agent was

denied entry

It should be noted that Agent has indicated that

I In this connection, Agent on 1l Decenber 1953

informed

indicated that difficulty should be anticipated in obtaining an entry

notoriod time drouty shoul

had received a letter

The letter

but that it nevertheless is possible.

states the letter points out a plan for Agent

Agent

to mork out.

Agent inforred the letter was received a little too late since he is now on

the other operation. He stated homever, he

rill be in contact

with a vier toward the possibility of entering

at some future date.

is forwarding the above rentioned

letter

12.

FI/Plans Staff is being informed to cancel Project

1953.

as of 1 December

13. Attached hereto and for retention in Agent's file are the. followings

(8) Copy of receipt # P-3283 for Agent's salary ($350.00) far the period

1-30 November 1953.

(b) Receipt F-556 dated 25 lovenber 1953 for the amount of $93.00.

(c) Copy of claim for reimbursement dated 25 lovember 1953 in the amount

of $93.00.

(d) Copy of a receipt dated 11 December 1953 for the anount of -$468.00.

SECRET

2

---

## Page 87

14-00000

ROUTING

FORMS: 35.82

5112:7.1.5.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECURITY INFORMATION

OUT 52565

TO:

FROM.

456

nI: CI?, CI.

16197

6 SEP 52

INFORMATION

CAO, RI 2, ADMIN

DIR 878.94

208 F:1N8

8 (1 320

3520,00, TARFLETOI

500.00.

J 150.00, 1ETH1I2I

2,201

('' 8. ço 7I6

20!-16:781

00075

SECURITY INFORMATION

Ma: Plan Meane

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE.

OPY N

---

## Page 88

14-00000

POUTING

NO NO. 35-83

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

•CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECURITEINPORRATION

TO.

FROM: .

INFORMATION:

28 AUG 52

DIRECTOR, CIA

SR REP SAN JOSE

WH (902-3)

CFI (4), OPS (5), RI (6-7), CAO (8)

8N 31520

ROUTINE

2204Z 28 AUG 52

SANJ 882

TO: DIR

RES DIR 16246 (OUT 50819)

CITES SANI

PROMPT REPLY TO SANU 884, (IN 38219) GREATLY APPRECIATED BUT

INTENT NOT CLEARO ASSUME FIGURES REFER TO COLLAR MONTHLY PANIENTS.

DOES HQS CONTEMOLATE SWITCH TO DOLLAR SCALE IN PLACE OF PRESENT

SCALES IF SO SITUATION COMPRICATED IN THAT PRESENT RATE OF EXCHANGE OF

IN .63 TO DOLLAR RESULTS IN SALARY DECREASE HUMANOID 1 OF

18.00 MONTHLY, SALARY INCREASE HURANOID I ONLY

→12.00 MONTHLY

ETOS ON DOLLAR SCALE AGENTS WILL SUFFER ADDITIONAL SALARY CUTS VIA

ANTICIOATED RATE OF EXCHANGE FLUCTIONS. IF POSSIBLE, REQUEST ORIGINALLY

RECOMMENDED INCREASE-MONTHLY

PAYZIENTS- BE- AUTHORIZED.

SE CRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

MASSA

-8. 66.044-5

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

201-168881

COPY NO.

(44

---

## Page 89

14-00000

PONTINO

FORM

NOV IIS.

TO:

FROM:

¡INFORMATION:

:5-82.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

29 NJ1HT ÜSE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Fiticiet

SECURITY INFORMATION.

CILE CE TRiSTUI (UNE JUST) (SATU)

DH 14621

R1 (5-4), GFd 651, UPS (6)

DIR 16246

TO: 3:4J3

RE: SAS 38, MESH012

Ciores ji

0U:. 50099

iti

14592 26 AUG 52

1º IMPROVAL IO 2 ILICE 1 53 CIVI FOR FOLLO:IE SALARY SCIL

LUi WOI FROTIT.

TRANAI - 200.00 :107X18

BISSINOI-I - 20.CO 102412

INCIUN-II - 32.00 1U8Y

EXT$1TOI0-II7 - 115.00 322137057

RRIROICIIVE PAYIENT TU LAICH 1952 FUSERA.

!i.

SECURITY INFORMATION

"' IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

COPY NO

---

## Page 90

FONTINO

FOR 40-35-83

22 AUG 52

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

• CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECURITY INTO

INFORMATION

IN 38219

тог

FROM.

INFORMATIONE

DIRECTOR, CIA

SIRREP SAI LOSE

1#H (1-203)

RI (4-5) CF1 (6) OPS (7) S/C (E-9-90)

ROUTINE

23142 23 AUG 52

SANS 884

TO: DIR

RE:

TRS! 771

OPERA

CITE: SSANS

PLEASE CABLE DATE DECISION EXPECTED RECO!IENDED SALARY

INCREASE HUMANOID PROJECT, NOV PENDING AL/OST 84 MONTHS.

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

201-168851

COPY NO.

---

## Page 91

14-00000

INDEX 51-28 A

SECURTS ISFOHSNTION

CLASSIFICATION

IN CONT

2011688811

"augnit 1953

154-179

---

## Page 92

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

---

## Page 93

side todaide

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

---

## Page 94

14.00000

---

## Page 95

14-00000

VIA: -

DIS- ICH NO. -

TetA 626

SECUATEY It'QIASTON

CLASSIFICATION

тО .

chior of Statios, san Joad

FROM

oblo! a sintion, Israjue

SUBJECT: GENERAL- OperatIOnal Lattero

SPECIFIC- JUANOID

DATE: - 9 JuLy 190k

Rof's

9115-401954

At the prosant monant thara ano so mrojects undor doralogunó roguirin

In tho ovent a use for mubject dovelopa althia tba

station sill be adriard.

nast two meeks, tha

Prancia to detaitin

Dists

1 =Jang

- FaBb

2 - Filea

COPY

FoR 89s

51-28 A

CLASSIFICATION

201-168881

5=94.

---

## Page 96

14-00000

VIA: -

Alt

COY AIR OR SEA POUCHI

DISPATCH NO. _

SECREX

SECURIT

CLASSIFICATION ATION

TO

Chief of Station, lianagua

FROM : Chief of Station, San José

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operational

SPECIFIC- HUMANOID

TR9A-1233

DALE: _ 3 JuLy 1952

this station

1. For your informatio four day vacation trip

the above-named agent of

Is planning a three

Lanagua within the next

two weeks. He is an American, speaks

Spanish

and English, and has been

for a nunter

of years.

It has occurred to us that perhaps subject could

bo of service

to you in the carryiny out of

of other minor operational tasks.

If you are interested in hivin

subject contact you for any reason, please let us know.

Dist:

- Mana

2

Hash

2 - Files

I GOPY

METERS 51-28 A

SECURI ELASSIRCATIOTON

3 Quey 52

201-168831

6-3=994

---

## Page 97

14-00000

SECRET

Security information

55755 731

13 Gune se

Chies of Station, San J0se

2839-22156 S9 248, TRS 208,

1. The serarks contaired sa 1R3-1-1056 and IS 4010d, the basio

as til sa ell inforention in Exatiuerters files, vaich 16 roleraat to

asion a comedia vita de camisetion, lave beca theoghly studios

Fy to Invula di jer Headjuster esganlesslen euthoriand to ronder

o Gastaire 1a tis caco.

2. It la Fastetted that 10 6U1t0 el lUNAION's cistendins perferance

cel ala valuabio conceisation

¡to the stotion's sceivities, dis wallsicatien

Bre sot these which properly eit him lor cocsidoration and sypoansrans so a

nute? of career sout status, and 14.11 hoped that the above decialon ull

tato no effest on the presont high standerd al estletency walch Is beina

mintalmad by the san jaso statloa.

Easagrega l el 113-4-766 refers to a diaperal mica vull ba fartbecaos

Pron. Reaigustars. Lo regret the confusion conveyed by tha oristoal disgatas.

N. As Populs IRS-4-1225, the raseon 1a aalery requested SC: WHASCHD-3,

these salary incrossos bava

tosa inscroreted is the reviaod project wues tan subaittad for caproval.

3. Though ElVAlOUD, Pornerly designator

has been tarTinated

as a cAleriod agar as of March 1952, 1t vould da ayyamelerod sI Part I Pe

Wto-Parvardod en rogusted in paragraph & of SaS-1i-T66, so that Boodguarters

sonaras say be cocolato.

J. Co EXO

SECRET

Do. Po. CT0B088

201-168881

791

---

## Page 98

CC0951

Security Informatios

6.

31 Israà 2353 has ber astod. lasamartors conuse de tho action your baro

tina Fordina Be

J. C. Klag

9 June 1952

SECRET

---

## Page 99

14-00000

SECRET

Security Infermation

178S-1-766

MAY 19 1952

chies os station, San Jose

Chief, Hestern Henlophere Division

1. Ploase be aivised that the folloone, changes have boch rade in

lendiuartera recards, reletive to subject project and the citer projecto

nich had formurly isen under the direction of the egent of project sulalold.

FrON

To

EUNANOID- 1

BUNABOID-2

FURANOID - 3

HUNAROID -4

2. It vould be appreciated 11 you vould change your recarde ?

secardingly.:

from lip.

3. It 18 hoped that a dispatch will be forthcoming fin the near futuro,

covering in detall all the ectivitiea of the son jose Station, as voll as

the pointo raisod in TRo-A-1142.

!. PieRse Parvard Part I PRA Ca HUVANOID l to that operational

-clearance my se foruntly requested.

J.C. Ring

12 key 1 952

S. C. KIN

SECRET

• D. F. GIBBONS

201-16.8881

766

---

## Page 100

14-00000

2. trai

SEGRET

Security Information

VIA S

PLANS

Fr. Paul Parton

Chief, WED

Project BUMABOID

22 May 1952

Please be adrieed that the following changes have been rade

In the designations of. NED projecta active at the San Jose, Costa Rica

Station.

FrOn

HUNATON -1

HUMANOID - 2

HUMANOID - 3

HUSiANOID -1

It has baen requested that all expenses be pald fron funda

alloted to project buYaram.

This request bas bsen acted upon ferorebly

by the cypropriate Hesd-urters office, and 1t 18 hogod that the ebenges

Indieated above not vita your approval.

ce: BEC/SPB

Jo Co Klit

CHED

SECRET

201-168881

---

## Page 101

14-00000

SEGRET

Security Iniormation

PROJECT OUTLIE

RIP TOTYH

DIVISION

HUYAHOLD

WEDD

STATIOS

San Jose, Coste RicE

HEADQUARTERS CASE OFFICER!

Room Lo.

2222

Extenzion

Date

455

12 19Y 1952

1. The attached Field Project Outline 10 subaltted for approval.

8. Full Opersticnal Cicarance has been received on AUMANOID:

EUNANOID-1; HUNAZOID-2; HUNAMOI-31 and & fOUr-tOy Dane chect resulto

received on AUl'ANO. Results indicated no derozatory inforestion.

Full Operational 18 15 tbo process of being requested on BUrANOID.

3. Tho origiBEl project nUYANOID vas approved a 21 Septeaber 1951

Por the period endias 29 February 1952.

Attachrents:

ЕРО-НБУДНОІЮ

TRS-W-585, deted 19 October 1951

HID Kenorandus dated 12 Hay 1952

J. C. KIRC

SECRET

201-168851

---

## Page 102

14-00000

SECRE

Security Information

FIELD PROJECT OUTLINE

EUKAROT

PART I

(HOU EU'AROID- 1)

(HOY HUMANOID-2)

(BOW EUHANOID-3)

(HUMANOD- 3) .

1USH4T020AAS•

SECRET

---

## Page 103

14-00000

/ SECRET

Security Information

HUNANOID,

HUMANOID -2; HURANOID 2; KUMANULU-S; SURAGUL

b.

HAROLD -

EUN'ANOID

HUNANOID

HUMANOID

RUNAROT

HUMANOID

HUMANOID

BUYANCE

SECRET

---

## Page 104

14-00000

/ SECHET

Security Informaici

-3-

HUMANOID

Sean J0ß0

11. Ratluated Cost:

salary?

HUHHOLD - 1

LUNAROD 2

HUMANOID - 3

EUTARON ,

12200

SECRET

---

## Page 105

4-00000

SECRET

SECUKIT! INFORMATEUN

TRSA-1215

CRYPTONTH: HUNANOID

COURTRY: Costa Rica

ORJECTIVES AND TASY3

SALARY

EVALUATION OF SERVICES

Evaluation of information

OPREATIONAL BEVIDE

PFRJOD: 1 January to 30 April, 1952

Ho change

1,000.00 per month.

• Excellent and of major importance to this

station.

OTHER FACTORS

CONTENTS

Current opcrational restrictions on this

agent presently prevent full exploitation

of his potential.

Due to financial pressure, explained in

TRS^-1142, HUANOID has recently undertaken

a part time job

SECRET

SPIRITY FORMATION

Subject is the nost .

valuable agent available to this station

and is believed capable of farther develop-ti

ment in the event current operational

restrictions are renoved. He is conscient- vi

jous, hard working;

loyal, lauginative, and

anenable to supervision. In view of big

Interest in a long range career

to the question posed in TRSA-1i42

a reply

concerning career agent status rould be

appreciated. Subject has been aware of the

reconmended

salary increase which has been

pending_for_over_ten_months._Altcough_he_

has not questioned the delay,

It is obvious

that-his=self-confidence_and=professiona=

pride have been shaken somewhat by the lack

of official recognition. We feel strongly

that agent has earned a raise aád that an

Increase at this time is not only justified

but would be in the best Interests of our

present and future operations. PLFASE

EXPEDITE ACTION ON THIS MATTER. 6 mOyS 2

001-168881

---

## Page 106

4-00000-

SECRET

SECURITY IKFORMATION

8180 - 745

MAR 1 4 1952

Chiar of Stitlen, Sas Jese

soding Chiel, FI

Subject grajact se bain dubaitiad for relatal, vita

FE3 C90STTA6L030

expressed by jou li referenco, incorporated tbarol.

2. Xes vill to aviced relitiva to the to vosted aslery 1Eczea8a 863

as vell as to the status as sobjeet project.

Wil. the WHERLEB, J.

12 March 1938

Ces

SECRET

201-168881

---

## Page 107

4-00000

CUNTRY:

ORJFCTIVES & TASKS:

SALARY:

EVALUATION OF SERVICES:

FVALUATINN OF

INFORVATION:

OTHER FACTORS:

COMFHTS:

SECRET

SECTORY K FORMATION

TRSA-1142

OPERATIONAL. RIVIEN

CRYPTONY:: Humanoid

PERIOD: 2 July to 31 December 1951

No chanpe:

Subject 1s presently receiving 1,000

per month.

A raise in salary is believed

justified and is recommenced below.

Services of this agent are extremely valuable.

As the principal

of this stition he is

charged with

carried out in a vrofessional and efficient

manner, and liis pirsonal coments and corrections

of considerable value.

His attitude remains

enthusiastic and willine..

Despite the fact this apent has been working

under certain operational restrictions for a

number of months, his value to this station

continues to be of major importance.

tion to the tangible and measurable information

produced-through-hin-in-the form of reportable

material, HULANCID has proved the single most

valuable source of bickground and ortencasion

data for the Chief of Station. His knowledge

DECRET

7 Fab. 52

201-168881.

---

## Page 108

4-00000

GAUTY MONST!

SECRET

PDGA-1112

COMMENTS (Con' d)

represent an intangible contribition to

the over-all performance of this station.

eaper to expand his operations, and, if headquarters

approves the removal of present operational restric-

tions, it is believed he can he riven further

responsibilities, particularly.

This Stition is presently

Interested in accomplishing

It is believed that sueject

has potential in euch of these fielús.

however,

reported previcusly, HU!ANOID is beset with financial

which undoubtedly detrict fror his full

wörking efficiency on matters of interest to us.l

The former Chief of Station recom ended an

Increase from 1,000 to 1,500

lin July, 1951, a

recommenuation in which the writer concurred.

However,

in the event current operational restrictions are

resoved,

it is desired to recomend at this time an

Increase to sixteen hundreú (1, 600)

per month.

The additional one hundred!

permonth

is

suprested in view of the fact that subject has

and because he has been aware of and probably counted

on the raise recom.endation of the former Chief of

Stätion.

Further,

if the restrictions are lifted, 1t

is desired to utilize subject's time to the fullest

advantuge without the handicap of his having, to seek

other out sice anninument..

HUFIANCID

HUMANOID'

SACRET

-a ria, Grill doing.

---

## Page 109

14-00000

COMFF.NTS

(Cont'd)

SECRET

TRSA -1142

With reference to TRSH-698, It is not

desired to have subject sign a

new contract at

this time, as the current contract appears to

be ¿dequate.

However, we would appreclute being

advised definitely whether subject is being

considered or has been rejected for career agent

status. (TRS1-1056) •

SECURITY INFORMATION

SECEPT

---

## Page 110

14-00000

SECURITY INFONARIA

ЗЕОПЕТ

2 Febenary 1958

HEHORANNTS FOSS SIC/SPE

FROM.

HED

SUBJECTS

APHOLARSE

RefErence 13 sada to amorada isOr this off100

dated 15 February 1952, casearning an individal connested

Lo In canardance ties vas paragraga l ei the monorana,

Part II fi? 1s sitatied hanuidth and forarded for your infor

ACHH

Attsakeaat

WR/1191/NER/30F

Distribuison

Orig & 1:

Anuresste

SD/RE (2)

309%

---

## Page 111

14-00000

SECHE!

(e) Copy of the accounting by Individed for hevenge, dated 1l beeenber

7953 in the arount a pubiste, (The signed oririnal, sired on il December

1953 in the writer's presence, has been forrarded to

Finance

Division.

(f) Copy of a letter dated 6 October 1953

to Agento

(g) Copy of a request for advance of $468.00 deted 7 December 1953 to

covering period 5 October 1953 through 25

November 1953 (dates of Covert Training, per Covert Training Livision).

SECRET

---

## Page 112

14-00000

9 Deceaber 1953

HEsORANDUM FORs

STArT©

ATPENTIONS

SUBJBCT 8

Arthur Go VAIVADA (pseudO)

It 18 requested that the proper clearance be grantod for the

ues of subject, nou on Project

on Project PUSJCCESS.

This

mill confira talophone conversation botreon Jour uffice and WH/Personnol

on 9 Docerber 1953.

ZUET

201-168881

---

## Page 113

14-00000

440075

Kircadent

SEGRET

Secuitty laformation

9 DEcerber 1953

I hereby request claim for per dien for the period October 5, I953

through 25 November 1953 at the rate of $9.00 per day. This period

covers the time spent by me in Covert Training.

Arthur G. Vaivaria

SECRET

Security Information

301-168881

---

## Page 114

14-00000

SECRET

9 December 1953

MEMORANDOM FOR.

Attention:

SUBJECT&

Chief, MHD-2/FI

Mr. John Cavadine

Training Report on Arthur G. VAIVADA, (P) -

Training Alias,

1.

following pertinent informationi

"Subject is thirty-one years of age, married, and a U. S.

citizen by birth.

VAIVADA'& previous intelligence experience

Includes eight years with the U. S. Air Force. During this

time he seived

as an intelligence specialist in the Panana

and Burma-India Theaters. In 1949 he was employed by CIA

VAIVADA's future assignment, under contract

agent status, will be that of principal agent with the nrimar

objective

2.

The instructors who participated in Subject's training Indicate

they were nost favorably impressed with VAIVADA and feel that he 1s

qualified for his proposed mission. He possesses a sound practical

knowledge of basic clandestine operational principles.

He should

bocone an increasingly valuable agent in the long range work of this

organization.

VAIVADA received instruction in the subjects set forth on the

attached Training Evaluation Reports. The following supplementary

reading and discussion material were also covered.

SECRET

The cincial te sham thie report is entrusted is fe

concilatter

lomu.nt6a

the rope:

whos it ocacerna

tea to she studeat

---

## Page 115

4-00000

SEGRET

The official to ribom this reper is ennuance

-==towa lo toe sidost

riom it coaceras.

---

## Page 116

14-00000

19716.7-196.0474

л. 0000.0'-1111

SECRET

Chief, Project Training Division, TR

Attechmentas

(3)

The official to thora ihis roscat is enirasied is EC"

canted biastei

:. sieg sa the studeni

t18-7ex

#lion it concor

-3

---

## Page 117

14-00000

SECRET

TRAINING EVALUATION REPORT

Nace of Student: Arther O, PAIVADA

(PSEUDONYA)

Trainlog Allas : -

• =

Date: & Bovember 1953

Period Covered:26 October 1953

to

5. November. 1953

Rating Definitions:

superior..

Bxcellent

Satisfactory

POOr

Failure

•As extrezely outstanding perforzance.

An outstanding performance, above average.

Requirenents net without distlaction.

A deficient perfornance, belov average.

An extrenely deficient performance.

Training Subjects

SUPERIOR

EXCELLENT

SATISFACTORY

POOR

FAILURE

31.

•Ite clicia!!

T5 tenan 43 entrustedia bes

-rAbi

dacoit taron be coin to the studest

SECREJ it concem

---

## Page 118

14-00000

SECRET

Student Evaluation

ABOVE AVERAGE

AVERAGE

BELOW AVERAGE

NOT OB: CAVIO

Student's.Comparative Evaluation To Others Trained For

Identical Or Similar Assignrent

..ABOVE AYEFASE

AVERAGE

BELOT AvERAGE

---can=

"Instructor's Comments:

VAIVADA impressed the underaigned as an exceptionally conscientious,

nature individual. Ee bas had considerable field experience, yet, he con

ducted hinself during training as though this experience was only secondary

to tbe sore important tagk of improving his basic locosledge of clandestine

astivity.

Subject completed several excellent reports covering assigned reading

material. These reports revealed the extent to rhich VAIVADA tent to do a

thorough, complete job. His oral discussions of the training material

further sabstantiated the sincere effort this student made to obtain as.

much

as possible fres tie training program.

Subject demonstrated and personally expregged his satisfaction with

-the progress he nade and the benefit be obtained fros the instruction

presentea to him

Aver add Eard

SECRET

---

## Page 119

14-00000

95:23

SECRET

TRAINING EVALUATION REPORT

Name of Student:

Arthur Ga MAINADA

Training Allas

Date: Tan ember 1953,

period Covered: 9 Mougaber 1953

throuph

25 November 1553

Rating Defiaitloas:

Superior

Excellect

Satisfactory

Poor

Pallure

.. •

An extrezely outstanding performance.

.. .

An outstanding performance, above average.

..

Requirements net without distlaction.

.. A deficient perfornance, below average.

An extrenely deficlent performance.

Training Subjects

SUPERIOR

EXCELLENT

POOR

FAILURE

34.

8b.

SECRET

a chowe to tha aragez;

---

## Page 120

14-0000

SECRET

Student Evaluation

ADOVE AVERAGE

AVERAGE

AFION AVERAGE

MUT OBSERVLO

Student's Comparative Evaluation To Others Trained Por

Identical Or Similar Assigment

ABOVE AVERAGE

BELON AVERAGE

191e121

Instructor's Conments:

VAIVADA has had considerable experience in the field, but he was

ready to broaden and enrich his experience with the help of training.

He has a strong bent toward his own opinion and exhibited independence

of mind in analyzing

He had no difficulty

In absorbing the material presented. He has the ability. to apply theory

to practice and apparently is a person too is accustoned to rely upon.

his own judgment.

His written work was excellent.

He recognized his

own saortcomings and readily accepted constructive criticism.

From all

the evidence during

training, VAIVADA appears capable of handling the

assignment proposed

for him.

05044.

2733.

TITL: 3.

SECRET

---

## Page 121

14-00000

SECRET

MECTP

• TRAINING EVALUATION REPORT

Name of Student: _ Arthur G, VAIVADA

IPSEUDORTNS

TraiDing Allas :

(MORIA)

Proars

Period Covered: 6 Databar 1953

23 October 1953

...a

Rating Definitions:

Superior

Excellent

Satisfactory

POOr

....

Fallure..

An extremely outstanding performance.

An outstandinó performance,

above average:

Requirements det without distinction.

A deficient performance, belov average.

An extremely deficlent performance.

Training Subjects

SUPERIOR

LACELLENT

SATISFACTORY

POOR

FAILURE

93.

34.

35.

SECRET

1c dear

---

## Page 122

14-00000

SECRET

Student Evaluation

ABOVE AVERAGE

AVERAGE

AFLON AVERAGE

NOT OBSEAVEO

Student's Comparative Evaluation To Others Trained Por

Identical Or Similar Assignment

ASOVE AVERAGE

AVERAGE

BELOW AVERAGE

Instructor's Connents:

VAIVADA appears to be a hard, conscientious worker. He is quick and

alert of mind and possesses maturity of judguent. Subject otudied the

training material with enthusiasm and expressed the desire to improve

himself. VAIVADA displayed an excellent understanding of tradecraft

techniques as portrayed in his written work. He has the ability to apply

theory to practice.

His goal was to improve himself to the best of his

ability, as his past experience in the field had been on a trial and

error basis.

His experience

might account for his

unhurried thinking and action, but it will undoubtedly assist him in his

future operations as he simply refuses to become ruffled or panicky.

It

Is the belief of this instructor that VAIVADA 1s well qualified for his

proposed field assigment.

27/42

any 2959 podes 7922

r-23-i

SECRET

---

## Page 123

14-00000

iel

2298

7 DEGETA 1953

BUSIOS AIRES

DIRESTE

T08

REg

RADES.40

WISE 7341

SUBJECT DENYID HETRY

DO CALLITELL KIN

(File

CUTES DIR

ROVTIRE

WILL EZ ASSICNED OTHER DUITES.

ED CE NESSACH

2 Dec. 53

201-168801

S&CR&S

---

## Page 124

4-00000

SB0131

Eir Fouch

HISA -428

chiar da station, Gusternle

chior af station, deu ese

(palational

HUSANCID

NEl:

Dir 34628

ö Ducerber i91s

Into: chief, i1D

Subjour Talled L0 mare the cohedalod cuatest.

to pior up the adranoo auchorized by raisroncod cable.

It se presuned thut he chastod lils mind avont useding

the schey.

COPYI

58021

201-168.881

18-6-53-1-15

Mininits n

---

## Page 125

14-00000

MEMORANDUH FOR:

SUDJECTS

~ SECRET

Security Iníermation

Special Deputy, WH

Mr. ROSs CROZIER

4 December 1953

By pre-arrangesent through

I had an interview in tin Mr. Ross

Crozier in my room

at the Hotel Raleigh on the night of 2 December 1953

for the purpose of getting an impression as to whether it was possible

that he could be used to advantage in our prograt.

Mr. Crozier has been a contract agent

years.

for approximately l

From my inowledge of

reporting done by the station

cellent type, having all the necessary qualifications for giving sub-

stantial assistance to our program. He has 7 ronths remainine under the

which operation is presently beinz handled through.

Irrespective of whether

continues with

or is given assigment outsise the country, I believe that it

1s Important to have Crozier with us

We can find plenty

for him to do.

Birch O'Heal

4 Dec. 1953

Security Informatinn

201-168881

---

## Page 126

14-00000

AT ORLIDUN FOR FILE

SECRET

Security Information

25 loveaber 1953

SUEJECT &

On ilednesday 18 lovember 1953 subject vas introduced to John Heyn. The

introduction vas desned advisable. inasmich as it would probably facilitate

sibsequent meetings

where it is anticipated that subject mill

be operating

Indicated he had not heard from

hence is planning

write to follow this matter innediately.

He agian noted that inasmuch as it will be necessary to stop

he surested the possibility of leaving

shortly following the termination of his covert training. As previously

indicated he felt that nis presence

where he can plausibly maintain

himself and his farily, and where he ray be in personal touch with the

On 24 November 1953, subject called to inform he had received a lotton

ar intowed he stadt lest he could obtain it but it may be necessary to seek

assistance

or it nay be necessary to

for a short period to finaiize the matter. Too, he

surrested thau in the event he cannot obtain the appropriate permission to enter

the Agency may desire to send him some where else

(he mentioned specifically) or some other country.

In this

connection,

he and his family vould be in a more secure

position if they were

rhile ataiting placement.

I plan. to see

on 25 liovember 1953.

201-168881

SECRET

---

## Page 127

14-00000

---

## Page 128

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 129

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 130

14-00000

SECRET

8 Septenker 1952

1A70RANDUM FOR: Record

SUBJECT

: Project HUMANOID

1. I total of $5934.00 as originally requested for this project

or the period 1 Harch 52 to 28 February 53.

The amount actually

approved was $6000.00 (Forn No. 51-91, project folder).

2. $5100.00 of the approved amount mas to provide for the compen-

sation of four agents who were to be reimbursed as follows:

HULANOID

HUMANOID-1

HUMANOID-2

HUXANOID-3

1600.00 (colones)

150.00 /

250.00 /

900.00 /

3.

The funding requirements for agent salaries were calculted

(by the Headquarters case officer,

at a rate 8 to 1 (e.g.,

HUNANOID Tas to receive 1600.00 or $200.00 per ronth).

4.

However, the rate of exchange has fluctuated since the original

funding estimates mere made.

The present rate is 6.63 to l. Accordingly,

"the monthly pay scale for HUMANOID in U. S. currency would be approxi-

rately $241.00 (or

similarly effeated.

1600.00). The pay scales of the other agents are

5. This situation was explained to the Budgot office

extension 2017) and

the Plans office

I stated that

dollar expenditures would be in excess of the amounts provided in the

project if we were to continue payments to the agents at the

rates previously established.

inforned me that me could

nonetheless continue the present

pay scale. He further advised

that budgetary adjustments could be made at a later date when it became

evident that the project allotment would definitely be exceeded dus to

currency fluctuations. A project amendent is not then required at

this tine. The station may be advised to continue payments

In the amounts shown in paragraph 2, above.

: TRS-A-1215

TRS-A-1142

TR5-W-771

JANS -887 (IN 30219)

SANJ - 882 (iN 31520)

Dir 17884(00T 52565)

SECRET

PEO

PAUL E. OBERST

Acting Case Officer

501-168881

---

## Page 131

14-00000

HEMORMIDUM FOR FILE

SECRET

20 november 1953

security Information

On Horday 9 "ovenber 1953 a reeting was held with subject for the primary

purpose of delivering nissalary for Uctober 1953 amomiting to $50.00.

for the anount was outained and returned to

Finance Livision.

copy of the receipt is retained in subject's file.

turing the neeting, subject reported

terninate in approrirately three wecks.

"Is scheduled Covert training vill asso

come to an end during the first week in Lecember 1953.

subject related he has not as jet received any news on

informed if he doesn't receive word

week he plans to

within the next

follow this matter by writing to the

The question of

connectaon he iniorred ne would nave no trouble findirg a suitaule job which

Too, it has indicated, and

it apuears somewhat reasonable, for subject to remain in the U.s. presently for

It is saggested that consideration be given to allow subject. to return to

Within the near future if the appropriate

received to: (a) illow him to finalize such details

has not been

Contact will be maintained with subject for further developments.

anticipated that

will neet subject at the next meeting for the first

This is recornended, inasnuch as

kno will be in the pertinent

arca, may be able to familiarize hinself vith subject.

SECRET

Security Information

201-168851

---

## Page 132

ROUTING

FORM NO.

Nor issi 35-82

L NOVELBER 1953

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAI. INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRIT

SECURITY INFORMATION

OUT 99075

: II

2065

TRUCIOR, COTRAL INTILICHICE AEDICY

CONF:

WH.4

INFORMATION FI, FI/OPS, PP 2, F8/RI 2

1856Z

5 NOV 53

DIR 25885

TUE SEULi

CITES DIR

RUF: TAETi51O, EUEN 855

SUEJECT UE REF PRIVIOUSLY ASSIGNED CRIPTUSA NER 165 AT LEADUANINDO CANCEL

CIUPTONYM LER 134 FOR SULTECI: O Rit'O

END OF IF'SSAGE

S. Wo HASHINGTON

So Cọ KIÀT

201-16.8881

[

SECERFA PArERNATION

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

COPY NO:

6A40

---

## Page 133

14-00000

ROUTING

* 35-83

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL. INTELLICENCE AGENCY

SECURIT INFORMAT

INFORMATION"

3 NOVEMBER,

1953

IN 31589

TO:

FROM:

ACTION:

DIRECTOR, CIA

SR REP BUENOS AIRES

19H: 14

ROUTINE

22492

3 NOV 53

INFORMATION:

Flo FI/OPS, FI/STC, F1/A1 2

BUEN 855

TO: DIR

RE: HABN 5465

CITE: SBUEN

SUBJECT OF REF HAS BEEN ASSIGNED CRYPTONYM NBR 134.

END OF MESSAGE

201-168881

COPY NQ

SECURINE INFORRATEN T

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

100

---

## Page 134

14-00000

SECRET

Security Information

2'7 Uctober 1953

MEPIORANDUM FOR:

Chief/Plans Staff/FI

Attention:

Projecus Branch/Plans Staff

SUBJECT: Project BIALIAL - Request for imendment

Project

concerns the transfer of Contract hgent rumanoid from

with interin training at headquarters.

Since

approval of the project on 12 hugust 1953 humanoid is now known as

P.2219

30. BIRADIAL has been

40

covert training.

In order to enhance

commencing 7 October 1953 and is

Since

he is presently undergoing

while undergoing covert training, be

at a cost of $93.00

covert training at headquarters, it is requested

he be reimbursed in the arount of 93.00 and the project amended accordingly.

DiNG, Cili

Attachment - 1

Approveda

2Nm 195

Dat

Chief, Plans

VECE SECRET

Ade Security Information

201-168881

---

## Page 135

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

MEMORANDUM FOR FLLE

23 October 1953

SUBUZUTS DIRADIAL

On rednesdav. In October 1953 i met with subject ät his apartment in

Alexandria,

Virginia for tre purpose of obtaining

his signature on the Travel voucher prevously submitted covering his travel

to Washington, D. C.

BiRADIAL indicated that the conbination of his schooling

in the mornings and his covert training in the afternoons which

also keeps him busy during the weekend, is keeping him fully occupied.

Though he did not press the issue. he wordered wether it would be necessary

to continue his schooling

te indicated he trought

he could handle any inquiries regarding his activities satisfactually.

We

both decided however that, regardless of the hardship placed on him, he

should continue iis schooling

_since any inquiries

could then oe properly and legitinately backstopped.

One of the difficulties

involved is the anoint of daily travel between the üniversity and his

residence.

Inasmuch as the distance involved plus the high rental cost factor

(175.00 per month) present a few difficulties. This plus the fact that the

plausibility

a student paying such rent is somethat questionable, BiRDIAL

indicated he mignt move to a more suitable location.

On 23 October 1953 he informed he was moving

as of this day for cover, convenience, and financial

considerations.

He will advise of his new phone number if and when it is

available.

SECRET

201-168886

---

## Page 136

14-00000

VIA:.

Air

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

SSORIET DISPATCH NO.

SECURITY BURMATION

CLASSIFICATION

TO

Mice of station, Buenos :1reS DATE:

FROM

Clus of statlon, San dood

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operctional

SPECIFIC EULARGED

Rors DIR 15823, HR2A-193, 17 JuLy 1953

0157-329

3 ог.т. 1953

To atteohod filo on subjoat la boing suturned horowith for

6R3L8

P220,

Part I

2

P1l0B,

Past II (a/s cores)

9 0ot 1953

18

190262.

RI COPY

190M376vй

SECURITY NFOPAGTION

CLASSIFICATION

торы но.

91:201

MAR 1909

9 Get. 53

201-1688815

156 3-1627

---

## Page 137

1400000

SEC CT

Security lieumation

HEHORANDUH FOR THE FILE:

7 Octoker 1953

SUBJECT:

_(202-2723)

On Monday, 5 October 1953, the writer met with subject at his apart

ment to deliver

the necessary "credentials" allowing his proper entry to

covert training facilities.

to

During this neeting he informed that be was too late for entrance

He was then in the process of making

irquiry

He also nentioned that he opened an account with a bank in Alexandria,

Va. I'm not so sure that this was such a good idea--but the account has

been opened.

He had had an account

however,

he has closed this account since he claims he received such poor service

from this bank while at his previous station.

He stated he would like to

have an account established with a large banking institution which has a

branch affiliation

where he will be assigned, so that his

pay may be deposited in the l'. S. securely by us.: It is suggested this

be worked out sith Finance.

On Wednesday a. M. subject called to inform that his home phone number

13 пон

He has

Although he aid not

request reinbursement for this amount, it was inferred that he would undoubtecly

appreciate it if this expenditure could be absorbed by us.

In tieN of subject's past excellent performance in behalf of this Agency,

and inasmuch as he is not highly paid, it is recom-ended that Agent be

reimbursed for this expenditure even if it neans anending the project.

Agent has not been paid for the month of September. I shall check

with Finance and deliver Agent's salary to bin.

SECRET

201-168881

---

## Page 138

14-00000

Senor

D. Ross L. Crozier

c./o. Francis Milliams

5846 Access Road,

Page Manor

Dayton, Ohio

astubre 6 de 1953.

consejero

Seccion Consular

501-168881

---

## Page 139

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

The Record

2 October 1953

SUBJECT:

_202-2723

On 1 October 1953 the writer

Agent Arthur C. Vaivada (P) by J. fi. Hanke at his apartment

The introduction ras de:zed

advisable, inasauch as Agent is to be inherited by iranch II. Nr. Heyn

Informs he is not available to handle Agent

at this tire but will meet hin

in about three weeks.

In accordance with instructicns.received fron Covert Iraining

Offices, Arent is to report for covert training

on 5 October 1753 at 1415 Urs.

he is to ask for

when he urives. Agent is to be known as

The instructions

vere passed on to the Agent. He was also informed to call X2298

in the event he desired to rare an appointment to discuss

business matters.

4o Agent informed several neighbors had inquired as to the nature

of his business. He has infor..ed them that he is

•Tis story had been decided upon beiore the miter care upon the scene.

Since Agent has not

it was suepested to him that

he commence

as soon as possible. He informed he

mould do this as soon as he learns of

the details as to his hours to be

devoted to Covert Training.

5. Although there is no a:surance subject nill be ranted permission

subject previously indicated he could forsee no proble

in this rogard.

He did make inquiry, however, as to that his status rould

be should he not be alloired entrance

6. It is unfortunate that Agent is residing in the Washington D. G.

area inasmuch as that in itsolf is undoubtedly consicered as

The possibility exists that the wrong person or rersons will learn

.of his and his wife's presence in this area.

To The file fails to reflect mat provision, if any, has heen made to

pay the Agent.

This will have to ke rorked out.

SECRET

001. 168581

---

## Page 140

14-00000

•C'!

INDRANDOM FOR FILE

3.

HUMANOID'S

6.

HUNAWCID

to

HUMANO ID

STCR"T

FEROID's

28 sept. 53

201-168881

---

## Page 141

14-00000

- STORET

Security information

AIR

Chies of Bestion, Ban Josc

Chias, 1D

CD2Fa9167a1

ARRIANAS

de Segreeber 1953

Distributicas

3 = San Jüse, v/ench, as noted

d = H8/11I Chrozo, u/o encl.

*/o enel.

ka/Na1lroos, v/o encl.

1 - Rogiatry, y/o enca.

J. Go KIM

SECRET

123-Y-179

SEP 21 1953

J.

C. 1

KOBC

QN, DOSININIGER

201-168881

---

## Page 142

14-00000

SOCPET

SECURITY iNFORMATION

File BIRADIAL

MEHOFAIDUH FF. FILE

SUBJCT:

HUMANCID

18 September 1953

iI. icyn)

HUNG NOID

3. Mr. Heyn :

RU, ANOID

SECRET

201-168881

---

## Page 143

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY INFORRIATION,

FAFÜE 100_ 22

Enter at 110a100, tamos 11509

CoLdS, 1102

10 copicalso 1159

ArtIUS Co FAILADA

Iranoritied herewith in a cons of the contriot of Arthur lo lAlVible

Tie is she subject as tiii03o initini ssrood the oriural of this coutoret

at bandquartora on 10 gazebor 1953°

б.

Co

King

CHH

AttachAnts

3 O EUDIOS ALTES

JO#D (8i chrono, subjoot Illo, FiA KAPOL fIle)

NH/11/1

do Co KING

SECRET,

PSON

501-168881

---

## Page 144

4-00000

SCRAT

10 Sept 53

ME PRETEY. FOR RECORD

SUBJECT:

Interview with Arthur G. VAIVADA

1. On 9 Senterber 1953 subject was again contacted at his spartrent and the new

contract was signed.

Subject was told that

tre cortract clause dealing with additicrel

comnittients not included in the con'rect was stendard egency protection against unzuth-

orized nromises by persons contacting hir, such as the case officer.

was told, tor-

ever, that the case officer's personel exerience has been tast the agency makes all

possible efforts to

act in good faith

end with conton sense if cintract problems

ariso at a lator date.

2.

Ths"of"set"rrovisions of the contrait wer emlained, emphasizing the agency's

view that

would be rossible only

NOTE:

Subject's questicns

appeared rotivated by the contract form, which was

пого

cornlicated and

"legalistic"' in amearance thatn' the

ne written in the field

under which he has

been oper: ting for the past four ears.

His attitude at all timeg

was most cooperetive, and he agreed that the spirit in which the contract was carried

cut,

on both sides, has as irportant is the provisions. It las carefully explained to

him

that sakasketer the contractserved the double purrose of defining the rights end

obligations of both hirself and the agency, Extral and for that reason may at poirta

seen more "legalistic" then Fastx regularly necessary.

However, subject. strted several

times that he had had nothing but the best of relations with the gersons who have

directed him so far,

and it is the case officer's opinion that he has xall the utrost

faith in the good intentions of the agency.

3. Subject was inborted thet"Career" status, in which he has expressed interest

over the past two years, would be considered at the end of the present too year contract,

and would depend on his operational success during that period and his ability to

be ready. for him when he returs to washing'on

vacation effective 10 September and will ke at

the following adresses during his

vacation:

September 10-14:

September 15-25:

Mc. Lo E. Grozier

RR No 2

HarriD, Illitois

501-168886

5.

Subject will contact the case officer on his reuton to lashington.

He has

been given the following adiress in case he vante to contact us before that tire:

---

## Page 145

14-00000

2413595

........

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

COMPLETE ONLY APPLICABLE BLANKS

Case Officer:.

Tele. Ext.

Date

John 5. Heyn

3992

37 August 1953

I.

General

A.

c.

Pseudonym. Arthur G, VL IVADA

— B..

Project

Staff Agent _

-, Career Agent_

-, Contract Agent _

Contract Employee-

Consultant.

Covert Detail-,

Other

_ (see CFR, Part 14.1)

D.

F.

Is ultimate conversion to staff status anticipated? not known

Is the individual presently engaged by CIA in any

F.

G..

capacity? security.

Contract egent - contract written 1949

Clearance:

Date 19 July 49

T/O:

Does this individual block a project T/O slot?

• Slot No.

H. Acknorledgement of pseudonym on file in ...

WHD/II

II. Proposed Assignment

III.

A Duties

major or part-time operational duties, administrative etc.)

Princinal agent

B.

C.

Anticipated Duration

tha years

Permanent Post (City and Country) Buenos Airas, Argentina

Personal Qualifications

C.

D.

F.

Citizenship: U.Se

Normal Residence (City and Country).

Marital Status -

(including

spouse)

Education (check) High

School

B.

Sterlinze Illino1s

Number of dependents

G.

H.

I.

__, College I, Post Graduate

Military Status: Retired

eligible.

• Reserve _

_, Draft

Has completed nilitary service.

(1) Highest salary earned $2,000

_(2) Last salary earned$3,000

Special qualifications for assignment (area experience,

language

contacts, technical or professional skills, general proven abili-

ties)

Four years experience as srincital agent in Costa Rica have proved

hir to be en excellent agent.

D01:1688T1

SECRET

1o.

мля 1953 59-61

10-181,

---

## Page 146

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 147

14-14000

...:

IX.

Operational Expenses: (Check proper space. If maximm limit, give

dollar value.

A.

Purchase of information. Yes_

I No

B.

Entertainment.

Yes-

X

No

Use of personal vehicle basis

No

Limit (FOr A. iBaL 720

D.

Other (describe) -

Hone

Linit

SAMOUNTI

Travel Expenses

standard traud

Individual with dependents

without dependents

per dicin

"yith" dependents, identify relationship tate and the children -

Iimit as ner project set st $3,550

C.

Household

effects

Yes - $500 limit

Fersonal vehicle

Will any travel expenses be paid

Basis (1)

(2)

(3)

IPER CIA REGS.!

ISUB. COMPLIANCES

(OTHER)

XI.

Miscellaneous Benefits: (Except in special cases,

applicable only

Staff and Career Agents.

Check as appropriate.)

Ao

B.

Death and Disability:

(1)

Per Federal Employees' Compensation Act

(2) Other (give details)

Leave:

Co

D.

B.

Retirements Reserve .

Yes € 14 cakenden dogs - ot

Continuarce pay and allowance per Missing Persons Act _

Life Insurance:

No

Rehabilitation rights

No

SECRET

---

## Page 148

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY INFORHATION

- ip-

XII.

Term

A.

B.

c.

D.

Duration of contract

Two years

Effective date of contract:

(1)

On execution (check)

Renewable: Yes_

No

Termination Notice

(2) Other (specify)] Septe 1953

30

INCHgER OF DAYS. IF ANTI

Forfeiture of retum travel for resignation prior to contract

tern. Yes _

- (Explain) -

XIII. Additional or unusual requirements, justifications or explanations.

Section B of Hiscellaresus Benefits is requested for subjet, although not

e Staff or Career Agent, because of rast service rendered.

XIV. Will agent take title to CIA property? Yes _

_ No

This trays

IF CASE S

SECRET

---

## Page 149

14-00000

ear bas

Progrity in??:

Dates

tie:

COFY

Ar. Arthur Q. Valveda

Dear fir. Pairadas

Referace 19 nade to your contrect effective 1 June 1949 with ODYsi

for the purchase of infornation and services of a conficential naturo.

SPfective 21 Aurat 1953 pold contract 18 hereby terinated by mutual

consent of the parties thereto and in lieu thereof the following contract

1s substituted:

ODYOKE, as reprezerited by the contractine, officer; tereby contracta

with you for the purchase of certata information and related gervicea of

a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

lo Compensation. In fall consideration for the purctase of such

Infornation and services, you will be paid an anount calculated at the

rate of 84200 per sanua.

Paymento illl be nade as directed by you in

uriting in a nanner acceptable to LUBARK. No taxes till be withheld

fron thie anount, and it will be your responsibility to report such incose

under existine, Federal Income lax lats and regulationa.

2. Allowance. Effective upon your arrival at your permanent post

of ducy overseas, you will be entitled to a fuarters alloance equivalsat

to that granted a aS-7 loveriment employee stationed at the same perrancat

past of duty.

This alloamce will be at the natimun rates prescilbed 1n

the Standardised Regulations (Government Civilians,, Foreiga Areas): No

accounting for this allomance will be reavired bu sUbArE.

you will not be entitled

to the Querters allovance herein indicated.

3. Pravel. You uill be advanced or redrbursed funds.for travel and

transportation espenses for you, jour deperdents and your kousehold effecte

to and from your permanent post of duty overseas and for jou alone for

authorized travel idthin your operstimal area. You will be entitled to

per dien in Ileu of subsistence during süch travel and tille in treining

In PAPRIME. All travel, transportation and per diem prorided for under

this paragraph must be properly authorized, and expenses iscurred hereunder

are subjeat to payment and accounting in coipliance with LUBARR regulationo.

Lo Operational Expensed. In addition to the allovence indicated

Bbove, you tall be edvanced or relibursed funda for necessary operational

expenses inaluding, but not linited to, entertalment and the purchase os

Inomation as specifically approted by RUBARk.

such funds will, be subject

to accounting in subatential compliance ulth KUBARE regulations.

31 Gup. 5.3

501-168881

SECT

CESEXSITIZED

---

## Page 150

14-00000

-.::

5o Leave. You will be entitled to fourtoen(la) calendar days!

leave per contract yaar. Such leave may be accrued durinp, the term

of this contract of any renewal hereof but paynent. in leu of mused

leave will not be authorisod...

Such leave may only be taken et times

and places approved in edvance by appropriate representatives of XUBARE.

Cover. It ia enticipated that you will undertake certain cover

employment In the course of your perforsance: under this apreezent.. It

1s expressly understood and agreed that any and all documents shiet you

may executs in the coursa of such cover employuent are subordirate to

this agreement and any contradiction in terms which may in say way amplify,

extend or restrict your righto and/or obligations hereunder shell be.

resolved by this agreement uhich shall always be doadnant.

' Offset. Any suns or substantially similar benefits or allovances

recaived

will be used to offeet those due under hie contract by suBARk.

Sus, sindlar benefita or allowances thus received

are acknowledged and aprced to be payment by SUBARK wttin the

provladons of this contract. lou vill report allsung or substantially

similar beneffts received

at least every sdr

sionths during the term of this contract.

$80

Execution of Documenta. If, in the performance of

service, you assune the custody of government funds or take itle of

record to property of any rature uhatsoever and sherever altiste, ubich

property has in fact been purchased tath sondea of OLYOKE, you hereby

recognise and acknoyledge the exiatence of a trust relationship, elther

express or constructive, end you agree to execute scatever documento may

ba required by KUBARY to evidence relationahipo

status.

You are not an employee of ODYCKB under this agreement

and are not entitled to any benarits norzally inaldent to an exployea

10. Secrecy. You will be required to keep forever secret this con

tract and all Intornation wilch you may obtain by reason hered! (unles

released In uriting by SUBARK from such obligation), with fall kaonledg

that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criinal prosecutioi

under the espionage laves dated 25 June 1948, as amendod, and orber appli-

cable lets and regulations.

21. Instructiona. Instructions received by Jou froM SUBARE In

briefing or training are a part of this contract and are incorporated

hereds, provided that such instructions are not inconsdatent id ta the

texTis hereaf.

DESE SIT LED

izi to

---

## Page 151

14-00000

DECE SINZED -

Saracte tri

laauthorized Conndtzonte.

Ho prosses or comes teento pertain

ing to rights, privileges or benetita other than those expresaly stipu

lated 1a unlting in this agroament of any emendment thereto shall be

binding. on OLYONE.

Pera. Thie contract 1s effective as af 1 Septenber 1953, and

shall continue thoreafter for a period of two (2) sears unless soover

taradnated by KUBARK either.

(8) By thirty (30) days actual notico to you from BUBARK, OF

(b) Without prior notice, in the event of a breach of this

contract by your violation of the security provisiona

hereof or by your otheruise rendering yoursall unavailable

for acceptable service.

subject to tha avallability of appropriations, this agroement may be

renEMEd fOr successive periods of ono year erch upon notice from RubARa.

accopted by you. In the event of voluntary termination on your part or

triadnation fOr CauBA Dy RUBARK prior to expiration of this agreement os

any rentas thereas, you will not be entitlid to return travel expenses

to FBPRIS. Permination of this agreement will not release you fron the

obligations of any securlty oath you may be roquired to talo.

AOCBI FEDE

PBPRIME

Arthur O. Valveda

APPROVED&

BY

Special Contracting Officer

---

## Page 152

14-00000

SECRET

Socurity Irforration

FORUE: FOR TILL

SUBJECT:

Interview with Arthur 3. VAIVAIR

1. On 28 Lugust 1953, Arthur 3. ViIViD: bes contacted at & hotel in leshington, D.C.,

des: offic:r.

Subject was briefed on the necessity of sutritting

an socourting of travel amenses and given the outlines of his training scheme.

also signeó e pseudony ecknowledgement. In addition, subject bas given his full lugust

salary of 5250 (old rate), although 1t develored thet he had b'en ziven a half months

salary by the station prior to derarture. He wes told this overpayment would le subtracted

frön his tre'el reinbursement.

2. On the night of 30 sugust 1953, subject wis contacted at his anertment in virginia.

rots: At all tires the subject immressed the case officer with sincerity, willingsess to

abide by egancy decisiong in all matters, and shored a rost cooperative anitaba.

3.

Subject rade the following points unile discussing ils

assigntent:

Do. His annliestion for entrence

1s now in the hands of the

it should ke granted in three rontas. le does rot

thirg did prevent his going there.

Borethirg prevented his present essignuent.

-bo

Subject will keep in touch with the

through a fried fr. Ohio

who will handle incorirg ard outgoing rail. Tais adiress has been given to the

Sublect jas tola his rarents thet he is

Comminication through then will he through a irier.

on whom he subnitted PRo data when

vear. (A security clearence request has been rade.by !AD/III). Subject's friend

Is also witting to a certair ex'ent dirce he save tery zeneral inforation when

obtaining the FRA data.

201.168881

---

## Page 153

14-00000

trad

it senter get

=2=

SECRET

Scurily Infcrection

d.

It was carefully explained is him that the agency had certsir reseretions

considering this point.

Emphasis was put on the point that good operaticnal

security prectices in his futuro assignbent would be of extreme importerce

for obvicus reerons.

It was ported cut that this irterir reriod in hashington

would to an jdeal time

Ho was frank in adni:ting that he realized the dangers also, end would cooperate

to the fullestentent.

TOTE: Subject is sensible in his arrouch to secutity and aprears to think through

etch proclem on its on gerits. The arent of

It 1s the cas. officar's opinion that subject has carefully controlled

and acted prudently in matters involving security. ills

operetional achievements are evidence that his secutity nrectises have been

sound, and it is believed that four years of

with no security breaches are sufficient proof of his

security conscdousness.

---

## Page 154

14-000000

SECRET

(EVEN WHEN ELANK)

N°SD 12291 A

DATE 28 Cugust 1953

I DO HEREBY DECLARE THAT MY TRUE AND LEGAL SIGNATURE IS:

Boss L. Crozier

ROSS Ju CROZIE:

ME, PRINTED ON TYPEWRITYRI

WITNESS:

201-168881

---

## Page 155

14-00000

3007

197

ECRET.

EVEN WHEN BLANK)

N° SD12291 B

DATE 28 August 1953

I DO HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IN MY RELATIONS WITH THE

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, I WILL USE THE FOLLOWING SIG-

NATURE WHERE REQUIRED:

(BIOMATUNE

Bathur C. Vairade

ART, PIT O DA TREMATTENT

WITNESS:

SECRET

201-168881

---

## Page 156

14-00000

jinda mine inap mission icion

1011164

well:"

Harist

2016:0A2401421

• isi:

Mo2006.71

N°SD 29681B

DATE

I DO HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IN MY RELATIONS WITH THE

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT. I WILL USE THE FOLLOWING SIG-

NATURE WHERE REQUIRED:

(DIONATURE).

Nardle R. Namas

NORMALI

RIGHT THUMB PRINT

WITNESS:

SECRET

201-168881

---

## Page 157

14-00000

I DO HEREBY DECLARE THAT MY TRUE AND LEGAL SIGNATURE IS:

(азамАтияк)-

mi Ross L. Carier

Foss E.

MANR, PRINTRO ON TIREMAITTEN)

RIGHT THUMS PRINT

WITNESS:

SECRET:

201-168881

---

## Page 158

14-00000

AIN

SECRET

SECURITY NUFORMATION

485-168

Cidal of Station, saa dose

antos; 126

AUG 2 0 1953

Uporations.

REFe

1utS1-225

do

AB iroJecto

5.53

described in raferance, riendquarters nosis a deccriptiva of tre neu cover

sIs concunication systen betseon the case officor, jrincipal ajunts, sod

susagents.

You chasid also inticare my chenges in objootives, targoto, and teals

ahich asy us necesorry.

J. C. RING

71 A5fua6 1953

Distribablons

¿ = San Joco

1 - WH/III chrono

WH/III,

WH III

WHY LII

• HH Mail 800a

I/DP

WH/III/JHankes d

So G. SINO

SECRET

SECURITY IFORMATION

CO No DOBRFLINOER

701-168881

---

## Page 159

14-00000

SECRET

19.114.1744

13 Fugust, 1953

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORDA

SUBJECT:

HUYANCID'& training in the U.S.

1. HUNANOID's transfer to the U.S. for training prior to assignment in

another area of

was approved under Project

on 12 August 1953.

A training slot for subject was arranged with

on 12778 this date

to start 5 October 1953.

2. Pormal request for training will be mede by the new area case officer

through

on x3818 when HUMANOID has arrived in the U.S. soretime

in late August.

J. Hanke

201-168881

---

## Page 160

14-00000

3t

SECRET

SECURITY

IMFORMATION

"REQUEST FOR COVERT TRAINING

TASSO CARTES COORD CORNT E MANORASION TO SEE PORCINE MATSON DISIN

AFTER COORDINALION

TRAINING LIAISON

INPORTANT:

STUDENT MUST BB U.S. NATIONAL DEEP COVER EMPLOYES MITH FULL OPERATIONAL SEQUITY CLEARANCE UNDER 1Y APPROVED PROJECI

I. DAME GE STUCENT IPSEUDONIMT

DATE SUBMITTED TO PTOTYPS

ATtLE G. VAIVADA

TRAINING ALIAS.

3 ITO DE EMTERED BY PIOITASI

PROJECT-DESIGNATION

DIVISION DR STAFE

BRANCH

PH

"i:.

PROJECT APPROVAL DATE

OPERATIONS OFFICER

TELEPHONE

• 39761:

TYPE SECURITY CLEARANCE

operattonal Clacrance to. Gd

KOORS TO STUDENT AS

not yet

'introducad" rifless:

ALTERNATE OPERATIONS OFFICER

KHO MY

Jonathan Hanke.

TO SiVOLET AS

"Jonathan Hanke

AGENT STATUS

J Centract

2.

-Career

CEDERIPHI CAL

ASSI CHENT

COUNTRY OR AREA OMERE SIUDENT DILL OPERATE

TELEPHONE

2065

DATE OF CLEARANCE

3e ming lois

1Seaff

Other:

STUDENT'S KNOWLEDGE OF AREA

Research and study onlyfIn area-

3.

STUDENT'S BACKROUED

U-S. CITIZERSHIP

......

_nacural8291700i

DATE DATURALIZED:

LANGUAGE QUALIFICATIONS (FOREIGNI

RACEICOLORI

AGE

while

38

FORMAL EDUCATION COMPLETED

MARITAL STATUS

arries

DEGREES

FLUENT ENGLISH

READ:

WRITE

SPEAK

PREVIDUS COMMECTIONS MITE AMY U.S. OR FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE, OR SECURITY: SERVICE IGIVE NAMES, DATES AND GENERI

OF DUTIES PERFORMEDI

1941-45

Intelligers speciali,.

• US Gi force in Pariama,

-CEs Thaatre

Nọ

EXPERIENCE OR QUALIFICATIONS FITTING STUDENT FOR PAMPASEA

SUE 1095 83-09

SECRET

201-1688811988

---

## Page 161

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 162

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY INJORMANIA

ZIORIENT PER THE CHISE OR PUREIGN INMELIGENCE

SUBJECT: Project

5 August 1953

Ins purpose of this project is to provide for the envert training

and transfer of a contract agent

latter vill

an American citizen born in linois in 1922,

is married

and has two small children. "Since June 1949 be hag

worked for CIA, under the cryptoay HIMAI0ID, 1n

jas a contract

agento Ha has proven himself particualirly adeot at.

Lo Contect and communications beiween

and his case officar till

be clandestine, under protesta still to be arranged.

Communications betsiean

the former and any agents or sources he recruits will be arranged according

to the circunstancos.

has been dependent upon this Agency for the past four years,

which financial dependence has increased considerably over this period dth

the increase of his family. Hiß notivation 18 patriotic, and his past actions

and achieverents bare borne this out.

Ine estarated anmal cost of this project is 85,705 salary ar

Ilovances (GS-7), $3,550 traval and per dien. (to U.S. for covert trainine

Leave

I, $500 transportation of effects and $720 for

operational expenses and travel, a total of $10,475.

for the period 1 lagust

953 through 31 July 1951

Chier, SIC

ATACHENT: Project Outline

STC/ SPB

RI for Vital Records

fo wale, operations

нас

Chief, Plans

Millan

12 Quy 53

SEGRET

201:168861

---

## Page 163

14-00000

SENDET

Security Iniormation

PROJECE PLAN

СРУРТОКИ!

DIVISION

WHD

STATIC Buenos aires

• IDIRS CASE OFFICOR

John G. Heyn

Moon lio. 2022, GErs. I

Extension 3992

Date_ 1 august 1953

I. The attached project is presented for approval.

2. Project

concerns the transfer of Contract Agent

with interin training at

headquarters.

Upon approval of this project, HUAlCD will hence-

forth be knoin as

Since 1949,

the most valuable agent of the san Jose Station.

a native-born Anerican, has been

He successfully

is case officers have been impressed with his initiative, security-

mandedness, and ability to exercise good judgement under operational

stress.

transfer

to another area bas

becone necessary due to

h.

has already

Buenos dires,

No

lunds for this purpose will be required from this agency.

SECRET

201.168851

---

## Page 164

14-00000

Security Information

- 2 -

5.

The estimated cost of this project for the first year is

$10,475.00.

This includes:

salary of s4205 (0S-7 Level) plus

allorances of $1500; operational travel $120; operational emenses

$600; the balance of 84050 conprises $2550 for the travel or

nis wife and tüo children

States and

_'to the irited"

3500 for the transportation of

personal effects either fron

or the United states to

and $900 for sag per dien bile in travel status and

auring training at headquarters.

subject is selling nost of his

The noral annual cost of this

project therefore, Hould us

be u25.

will be peritted

to take one month of leare with

pay, before entering training.

He justly deserves this considera-

tion. inile in training a nev contract vill be signed with

embodying the featires outlined in paragraph 5.

Since it is urgent for the preservation of

that this project be implenented as soon as possible, it is requested

-that the effective date be 1 August 1953.

Jo. Co RING

CAH

Attachment: 1 (Project Outline)

SECRET

" *:

---

## Page 165

14-00000

SECRET

Securly iniormation

PAWECT OUTLIE

CRYPTONY*:

Part 1

1. Area of Overations:

2.

3.

References:

Project HUANOID. Tis contract agent HUMOD will become

In this new project throih which he will be trans-

ferred

734 (Il 45639).

Purpose:

a. Do jectives:

To bring to Washingtou for training and transfer from

a Contract Agent for the purpose

of

Targets:

lasks:

40

Personnel:

a.

Pseudonyns or cryptonyns:

The project initially will involve the use of

only.

•It mili ve anenced as sub-agents are added subsequentiy.

SECRET

---

## Page 166

14-00000

SPBE

Security Information

- 2 -

bo

Personal data:

is an american citizen born in Illinois

and has to small children.

de spent approsinately 5 years doing U.s. Air Force intel-

Ligence work in the CBI and Carribean Theatres.

1949 he has-orked for KUBARi

l'e is particularly adept at

5. Cover:

8. Clandestine contact will be arranged betreen the agent and

the case officer.

In vier of the sensitive nature of his

objectives

b.

subject has

Having a trife and tro children he will

6.

Contact and Communications:

a. The case officer will contact

directly to provide

him with direction and collect his reports. Both are native-

born Americans. Contacts till be clandestine upon pretexts

still to be arranged.

•bo

Any sub-agents subsequently recruited also will be contacted

clandestinely.

No special problems of contact and comication are. anti-

cipated.

To Control:

a. Suoject has been dependent upon this Agency for the past four

SEpRET

---

## Page 167

14-00000

SPONST

Security Information

- 3 -

years.

The degree of financial dependence has increased

considerably over this period with the increase in his

family.

Te necessity to meet these responzibilities

assure his readiness to comply tith all directionito pro-

tect his job.

b.

Subject is notivated by a sincere patriotic desire tó ren-

•der valuzule service to his country.

lis aguressive at-

titude torard his work and the initiative he has surmoned

in pursuance of the tasks assigned to iin have constantly

borne evidence of his devotion to the protection af ineri-

can ideals and interests.:

8. Special Equipment:

None.

9. Coordination:

Coordination with the

Training will be effected.

Desk and Headquarters Covert

10.

Time table:

The project can be activated upon approval. For the preserva-

tion of

it is important that the project be

implemonted as soon after 1 August 1953 as possible.

On that

date Subject must nove from his home

and should

then travel to the United States.

Duration of the project: indefinite.

Part II

11.

Estimated Cost:

The following is an estinate of the cost for the FY 1954.

(Subsequent fiscal years will show a smaller cost ratio. since

the transportation of

and his family

to the United States for training and subsequent travel

will not re-occur.):

Salary (at the rate of GS-7):

Allowances:

$4205

1500

SECRET

---

## Page 168

14-00000

Security Information

- 4 -

Per dies during training, briefing and travel

to and from the U.S. (Per dien in U.S. ₴ $9.00):

Travel for self, and three dependents

to the United States and

900

2550-

Transportation of effects fron

United States to

lor the

500

Operational Travel:

120

Operational Lxpenses

(for purchase of information

and entertainment):

600

TOTAL, PROJECT COST

$10,475

12. Special Problems and Comitrents:

A new coatract will be signed with

whilo he is at

headquarters for training.

It will enbody provisions constitu-

ting an improvement for him in compensation and allowances.

This

1s already provided for within the franerork of this project.

SEGRET

---

## Page 169

14-00000

28 JULY 53

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECUBE CAEMATION

IN 1,5639

TO:

FROM DIRECTOR, CIA.

SR REP BUENOS AIRES

INFORMATION:

ACTION%

ROUTINE

00557 29 JUL 53

COP, FI, FS/OPS, FI/PLANS, F1/RI 2

BUEN 731L

TO8 DIR

INFOS SSANU

CITE: SBUEN

RE: DIR 11908 (OUT 74476 I SAME 8009 (1N45027)

HUBANOID DESIRED FOR BUEN USE. OBJECTIVES!

AND FERFORM

DUTIES AS ASSIGNED.

TARGETS!

TASRS: GATHER PERTINENT DATA FROM ALL AVAILABLE SOURCES ON

252T

END OF MESSAGE.

0960

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

201-168881

COPY NQ

---

## Page 170

14-00000

POUTiNG

NOY

15p

35-83

CLASSITICO MESSAGE

• CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

23 JUL 53

TO:

FROM

ACTION:

DIRECTOR, CIA

SR REP BUENOS AIRES

WH

INFORMATION: • FI,

F1/OPS, FI/PLANS, FI/RI 2

IN 44363A

ROUTINE

CORR: 29402

23 JUL 53

BUEN 731

CORRECTION

CORRECT PARA 2 LAST TWO LINES:

"DEGREE ONE YEAR AFTER ARRIVAL. DOES HE INTEND REMAIN

INDEFINITELY AFTER ONE YEAR.

IF SO WHAT WIL HIS COVER BE."

201-168881

COPY NO.

SECURITY INFOZMATION

201321005900954n

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

(48)

---

## Page 171

14-00000

'-IL"

ROUTING.

FC8/150. 35-83

23 WAY 59

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ECURITY INFORMATIO

IN 44363

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, CIA

SR ROP BUENOS AIRES

ACTIONE WA 4-

INFORMATION:

FI, FI/OPS, FI/PLANS, FI/RI 2

ROUTINE

17417 23 JUL 53 °

BUEN 731

TO:

DIR

INFO: SSANJ

RE:

DIR 11908 (OUT 74476)

CITE: SAUEN

•10 BUEN'S DECISION REUSE OF HUMANOID DEPENDENT LENGTH OF TIME

INTENDE REMAIN

2. HE COMING HERE

AND EXPECTS RECEIVE

CE YEAR AFTER ARRIVAL. DOES KE INTEND REMAIN ONE YEAR AFTER

THAT YEAR, IF SO WHAT WILL HIS COVER BE.

END OF WESSAGES

201-168881

COPY NO.

SECURE CRONITION

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

(441)

---

## Page 172

14-00000

ROUTINE

FORM NO.

NiON 1991

35-32

CLASSIDEO MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Ja's Ü527 2259

OUT 74476

TO:

SE EZPA AEGENTLES (BULLET ATRES)

FROM:

SCUMITY INFOPMATION

do to FETi

3992

CONF &

ROUTIFE

14002 15 JUL: 55

INFORMATION:

F1, FI/OPS, FI/PLANS, FI/RI 2

DIR 91908

70t

SaUK

ESARY

BI: MR COS (ON 1485) E24-23

DO PIS CARLS REPLY.

SE BUILD DEBILD FUS US SUKH DICINE ESSENTIAL DEZAIES FOR

F228OT OTTO, TAHELL OESECTIYES PARTIES BID BASES.

• ні,

Co KING

201-168881

"if singe con

BO lI, DAVIORE,

CHOE?, BRO JI, WEID

S. Rechart DOSMATION

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

COPY NO.

600

---

## Page 173

4-00001

VIA:-

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

DISPATCH NO. _

SEURET

ACCKITY INFOKMATION

CLASSIFICATION

119:4-207

•TO

DATE:

13 110 1953

FROM

: Chlor or Stationg fan Josó

SUBJECT: GENERAL -

SPECIFIC-

RCE:

aPS:o12is 3 June 1953

1o: HuNDID sea aduleod subject of his sending doperturo,

essurins subjeot thee pest surgicos ito boon nado a antior

Of polanen rocord che timü cubioct tall do conteciod cu

ais place of euployient in the evont the noeu for his

20

VIDy may to connoted in tho future at tho pieco os

cranunitted iiti: 3251-23950

TEO OnLY

arlontification trich

vili bo sigured of to contacting officor 15 as follous!

B(I7LO TIANO OF MONANOIDI BES

agned no to rot in trich with jou as

I'to ricantly errivod In coas tica."

10 July 1953

FORM NO.

31.284

SECURITY INFORMAI

ZASSIFICATION

CORY

90r-168881

15-4-3-137

---

## Page 174

14-00000

VIA:

A1r

AIR OR SEA POUCH

SEGRET DISPATCH NO.

IRSA-

198

SECURTS INFORCES TO

CLASSIFICATION

TO

Chief of Station, Buenos Aires

DATE:

'FROM

Chiuf. of

Station, Sen Josd

SUBJECT: GENERAL. Oporational

SPECIFIC- HUMANOID

Ref: DIR 90960; 23 June 1953

1? 12. 091

INPOg. Wash

1, Transuitted horewith is the HUMANOID file, which, through

a regrottablo inadvortenco, was not foruarded to your statica

sooner.

After perusal by your atation, it is requested thet

the filo bo riturnod to son Josó for use in briefing tho

Inconing Chief of station on tho over-all scopo and ranifio.

cationg of those activitles fornorly handlod by subjoct walch

will ba reassigned upon HUMANOID's departuro,

20

In thew of tho fact tont subjoot has sold bis house and

fumiture and must effoct dolivery on 31 July 1953, and

bocauso a tentativo departuro dato of 1 Aujust 1953 hes bosn

set, your early attention to reference so id be greatly

apprecietod.

30

The HUMANOID file till bo returned to suenos Alres for

permanent rotontion after it has served the purpose set forch

1n Paragraph lo

Enol::

F110

Dist:

-0D81

-Wen Wond

6 Jüly 1953

SECKET

SECURITE INCONSTA CIC9

CLASSIFICATION

но.

iquey

,53

RI COPY 201-1688814

18-6-3-13.

---

## Page 175

4-00000

BESTIONED A

SIRET

sesurity information

Chlos aí 11oa1on, Furos isras

ailer, lamD

T44177403

KAFOX LO. 87

2 July 1913

LIDEASOLD

mart, in tich copualty lo has alroady sortod it. I soat wly. duing

the past four jours in car llca, Me inn dose station uas requasica

to fartard subject's file for your perisal; ne hope tisat you oro num in

nocalpt of lilo filo.

2°

Tads dlepatch has t piapor of prosentine to jou lcodquartera appraisal

a ivanilD. A revier ai tix Hondquartore filo Indicates tat lLANUID La

an ageraasivo, ratior toll qualified operativo, to has cajoyed a cood

neasure di succoss and has exurcised cood judent under oporational stress.

No dosiros a caredr vita this Araray, and in devotad to lao Horis.

Thore falloss a sumary and appraisal of IllANOID's work which has baen

provided by tiro Hondquarture costa Flcon Desko

Di EULANOID MIE TOCTItOO

In NovERber 1348

In Juna I910

PrOfOOt INLAKUD tae aotitatod. dis subloct hencline and actini. as

J. C. KING

IH/111/Costa Rica

R. N. DAFIEREN

nishanize

SECRET

501-168881

---

## Page 176

14-00000

Do

SECKET

Securay Iniermator

TAI- 7-403

raco 2

Uy this teso dovotine approdiataly half his this to ou murii.

¿Ince tiat ano lULANUID'a iin cules laTa boon to

idth the escortion of tho

copped in aid 1952. humbolu's noct tortant

Birilo activity bus been 17

corstitito this nout tiportast assoto di tie stationo

In tão courso of ils operational dullre, subjoct bas proved lineali to

Le vury security conecicus and iu 2oasoas a degrae of initative pallet

Ine inpresosá the elaion chies on nore than ono occasiun. le tes

participatad in

ad has proviciod

durine alavan nontis in tito in thaator during tue 1251 car villo

Subject has proved linrelf lo jo mordedicaulo in the usini techaigaco

i covert operations Ritor four yeare ai sorianI

and las

parod to bo invaliable to the station is

and has tuo chiliren.

SEGRET

---

## Page 177

14-00000

Mas O Security information

F1I5403

Tho queatton of a camor status res diecuased vida our ject ever a

yor ano shen is wag In toch with the former chici of station soy

at jacquestori, but no conitaents vere nado in this recarà,

alibouch he tas cold chat it auld be considered, dependiar on 115

{u+0g 00t1T1118

He indio toà lls pilinitioss lo continue his

orerational antiu1efra in eme atlan amnte

18 Pesenty

Te bas

alrouases the muestion of covert training et licadquarter soz tica

1n Jato 1933 10105 to coini to Argentinas It 15 licecquertong'

understandlir, tat hs nould con to loaiguartors sons tire in lato

kurnet un captasber for aprotaataly uno sontis covert trolijaro

alter reich is aliht le directeù to arait deperturo far irrantina

untall suzo tiro in atdalamarr 1251 1n miar not to nomito in 1io

Lo Aditional paraunal Inforation an zubject #1l1 ho lound In the Sen

sio sartavala to te Introcuced

la accordanos ulte latry tan onjucilvee.

should you and ids guall-

siciciona of intureat and favor lia entor Into Arronlra 2a a li5ã00

saset, alnaro sóvise as carly as roasiblo, in order that necessery

travol detasla aral tainina echadules cas bo araurad it leediguriers.

In thEs di ine riMer standarú al livini in duenos Alres und sùjectos

axcoicit rocord uf servico, en asenient of lia present contract sowd

bo oftoctad mile ia is in inaincion. ins procent bisiini is in icrEs

al arrual compensation at iso? level: (442i5).

¡a tlio and tuo chilaron till probauly discover this anont to be sase

too suplo to satriain a normal standard of livinE. Your coments sud

EUE: estiGua ull no spprocintod, particularly tati rojard to sey all07a

aRces that tald la apropriato.

So An early Toply mueld bo espocially halpiul, since MUlAOID has alrcado

restinad in costa Mes three solths legond the dato

and s'bule leave tora ly Alto'. (llo ras requesto ur tho

sen dose itation to remin thrusil duly to covor

To shall sialt your reply pendin; any surther acton rojarding tullülD.

2 July 2953 /nih

notabaton:

3.« PaRnOS fIrOS

1 - CH/II-Rego

do.C. KING

Bys J. Heyn

CSENSITIZED

RH/III/Costa Rici

(yellow).

SECRET

---

## Page 178

14-00000

ROUTINO

35-82

19 JUrs 1953

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

GECRAT

SECURITY INFORMATION

TO:

FROM:

lio

HENN

OUT 69435

r WH

3892

ROUrDE

2041Z 22 JUNE 53

L'ILECIS, CATILL DITALLIGLICH ACSICY

CONF:

WH 4.

INFORMATION:

FIO FI/OPS, FI/PLANS, FI/RI 2

Dra D90se

TO: GIUSE

INFO: SSAiLJ

CITE. DIR

LO SUBJECT IS INMAiON ANGLICAN CUITUCT AGENT DE PROVEN VAILE, LE LEARS

SESVICE WTH COSTA HIGH STATIO:

20 HIE: HUMOID MAG LATS 52 EL SUGGSTEN WENTIG, AUIGILLT IF HE

ABLO

HE HAS NUI ARANGED DITRANCE BURLUS AIRES INIVINITT.

RECUEST YUM CONITS AITER NIVIN LIS PLEN DISPATCH FOLLONS MINI DEDiILIA

30 FOR ISAIS POUCE RUMANOID FILE TU BUE..

2.0

: 10.

7.33

201=168881

IH/III

CHIFF, WHD

SECURITY INFORMATION

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

COPY NO..

- 6669

---

## Page 179

14.00000

VIA:.

P.11

(SPECITY MIA OR SUA POUCH)

DISPATCH NO.

SECRET

SECAN INFORMATON

CLASSIFICATION

InSA-60

DATE: 8 JaJULIE 1953

TO

Chief, WED

FROM :Chilef of Station, San Jocó

SUBJECT: GENERAL-

Opurational

SPECIFTC-

Security Revion of Curront Operationg

ProjuCt HURANOID:

Ref!

TRS"-816

Ino following comments on roferonco ury subaitted

for your infornation and 1110g.

It Is to bo notod thai tho

headquarters ravioring officials have arrived at a nubor oi tho

BERO

conclusions that we hiva wit rugerd to the security of tho

Project and tho possible linos of uction to be followod.

20

With rogerd to Peragraph 6 of referenso, a fool toat

although the security rigi of contact and conusications botween

HUMANOID and HUHANOID-3 has not been ronoved, it has boon roasonably

miniatzod.

After the closing of lu'AudIu's

in november.

1951, savoral maotings vero carriod out at night on pari bonehor

unilo et empts vero boing mude to locate a socure safehouso.

This

method was not satisfactory because of tho impossib lity of handling

and discussing written materials, tho briof tino li:alt denanded, ani

tao posalbility of accidental rusognition of ono or the tharo

number of roetings wero held at the home of HUMANOID at night with

Although tho obvions security.

hazards here were aggravited by tho foot that

livas in the noigiborhood, tho Mata wuro doosed loss

sorious then paris meetings.

A safe house was looated In jay, 1952,

and was usod for severul matlags, but his couprouised and abandoned

acquaintances of HUMANOID peased by und azu hin

unlockins the front door.

loutinys word agaln hold at the home of

¡UhOlD on a staggerod ashodula unilo sourch for suitcolo silenorisas

continuod.

I't loast teu apartmonts and officos were exeuined

and rojocted by HUlAlOID and the writer durlug this puriod.)

A new

sefchouse was ranted on l Novenber, 1952, and 18 presently bolnz

used for mootinis.

cowovor, bota iWA.ID aid HUrAPOID-3 have

agreed to abundon tais place at the end of the mouth, because

aotual use has degonstrated security Hidinossos 1n oxlt and ontry.

Another salo dffico Is presently undor i:vostigütion, anu attepta

have beGs nado to l1'a1t tho livo contucts by bruab mootings 11 dar

koned stroots and use of

Ho aro also sotivoly sourching for s:ita-lo two-way dead drop

raollitios in a furthor offort to mininizo liva contaota.

LAR ISS 51-28 A

•сі 16.0k64710:

CLASSIFICATIO

187501-168881

СОРУ.

VDP

#SA-60 1-3-004

---

## Page 180

14-00000

Pago 2

KRSA -60

W1t: reard to paragraph 7 of referonce. It 1s to bo

notod that HUMANOID's relattons with

have been stronathered considerablt in recent months.

In several long discussions and

has raferred once or tudeo to the fact tut hia naraonal

appoars to go unrocognized by the Custa Pican

govorment. No intinated shut he la more anure of the darzero

prosontod by

then ars the security i thoritios.

Ho feel confident taut no costa rican officials are actively

attempting to identify higaor elemats in the net, control the

operation, or dotect the naturo of our intollizenco interesta

In vies of tho dovolomnont of nore intimiato

rolationg

between HUMATOID and

and the lutionig interost in nother

exists of his coopration

have obtained prelizinary PRA duti fron hin and are presently con-

sidering the possibility of roquestiny cloarance as a paid i ont.

Infa will be the subjoct or a futuro dispatch.

Furthur Incleation of

tha luth of detalled Information on the part

of the costa FIcan

authoritios concorning this project is conta ned in IRSA-1272.

With rogard to parugraph 8 of roforunce disostch,

to have long boon concernià over the luci of caditional

the seope of responsibilitics presently assiud to stracId. He hopo

to soparato the

oporations

In the near futuro.

is prevlongly reported, the possibility exists that

*HUMANOID will copart Costa Rica sone time during 1953. le have already

begun turning over the

cloaranca 13 poteined for

and further dosorvalion 18

completed, no contemlase turring MUSAlOID-3 ovar to

In

addition, ive are gutiering PRC deta on aultioral potential

With regerd to Paragraph 9 of referenco, 1t 18 to bo

notod that no voro in tre prosess of duveloping coralal relutions

Concernini Para raph 10 of reformo, 15 1s to be

notod that HUMAÑOID will gilto likoly depart Costa Rica durses 1953,

SECRET

SE:""":

1-ic9

VDP

---

## Page 181

14-00000

Page 3

SEORET

SECCHITY INFORMA NOM

HRSA- 50

thoroby oliminating the security spocts of to fact tirut i1s

intelligonco estivition aro snom to a uida virolo of indironous azunts.

Readqutrtorg recamendation thet HUNANSID exorciDa

extrano caution in all of his intelligonce activitios will be followed.

The dayras ütttched to referonce ic a trate with the one audition

is cogizent of

DuFIRE

this develossonial

30.10d. HYAHOID bES D001

HUMANOID

He appreciate the azhaustiva ravier of this project

prepared by headquarters.

our desire to koep headquarters

promptly interned of all sinor detuilg as well as

inajor developronts.

HOwavor, He Iraouently side in the siftin and ovaluction of thosa matter

lonanding attention at any glven time that eltror. routlae reporting or

ourrent oporetions mist suffer.

3260

SBORET

VDP

---

## Page 182

14500000

bles

VIA:

AIr

(SPECIFY ASE, OR SIA POLIO

SECRET

SECURITS LAFORMATION

CLASSIFICATION

DISPAICH NO.

HRSA -51

TO

Chisf, WiD

FROM : Chlof of Station, San Josó

SUBJECT: GENERAL-Operational

SPECIFIC- HURNNOID

Rof:

SANJ 905, DIR 24876

2 January 1953

DATE:

1o ls Indicated in reforencos, subject travelled to

washington in early novenbor, 1952, on personal business and con.

upon arrival in order to discuss the possi

bilftles of a futuro assignment in enother

Artor discussion With WHD officers, according to subject,

indicatod that reassignment to another country would be

considerod.

An assignment 1n Argentina was tontativol: discussad with the

understanding that subjoct

his doparture

must have our concurrence.

montioned that subjoct might be afforded approxinately three months

training In washington prior to departure

a new contract hould bo propared.

2. Sinco hia roturn to San Jisé, sabject has ascertainod

¡that he can

He has

epprorimately one

Contact

indicatod no difficultios would

be encountered in making the transfer or obtalning a visa and that

In view of tho fact that subject's services will

bo neoded here for the remainder of the

It will be mid-July before he can be releasud.

subJect

1s aware of this time consideration and 1s planninz to enter

1n

Harch, 1954.

This tentative schodule will perait a few months

training 1n lashington subsoquont to Julj, 1953, and will also

permit a period of a for months orientation in Argentina prior to

Headquarters coments are requested on the above

metter as woll as infornation as to what comnltments,

1f any, vero

made to aubjost maile in

necessary to take his wife ani two chilaren to the u.s. with him 1f

trainina 18 required.

LAR 158s 51-28 A

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION I;

зор-ійёт?!

201- 768881

ARSA-51

---

## Page 183

4-00000

Page

2-

SURET

SECURITY RNFUIMATION

Faz5A-51

5.

"e wold be interestod In azy available Intornation

for passing

to subject,

such as

wnether the organization u ill pay

his passage

to the United States

for training and to

assignment,

etc.

•.;

CRET

SECURITY INFURSATION

---

## Page 184

14-00000

A :

115

SPECIFY AIR CH SEA POUCH

SECRET

ST CLASSIFICATIONION

DI.SPATCH NO.

DATE:

-168

16 000

K. 1003

TO

ChICE, WID

FROM.

:CiaGE of station, sou dos

SUBJECT: GEMERA. 0302061020%

SPECIFIC- COLEURiDE PARty PODUtrUtION (UrUCIONS

RofE

106

Lo Hocaquartoro attontion 1u Inviice to Projost iTLINIT Milca

nao ao 1u3 objoe:lvo the sor atanò of e partz sanuer os tho

¿rarOduction oI e nut Macer 1100 too Cornlat Furty En tio

navin? boca accopiod in tio Convnist enilcuto usi teving

vidosad não cireio of casinist anuintercos in tico coudo unis•

project la cegoctod to prodico a Lou-luvel, 10n7-turra suratizo

tion af ano peruy In uno oi tha 20st caitical

26

30

4o

socond end tigrú 00 colun counicte ard sapitizors in tie

SAT JOSÓ aJOE SOR pOUsiUlo dole:tors.

Fiantofero, nost of tho

aratimio cetont. on hua boa: diroctod coutis Inorg oi tio

palitical (oo.e81on with seguilvo pocilto.

bolag sado tith to 11i011:00d theo curtiù will io lisa los

at logot ono spproan 1i cálicoly prior to iis dogarturo.

TaSO ay:5000: V'11 lO 10 siditica to tãO ciErCi LOs a cOcon

string rior ilinente

Also, du cEfort la boina aio do laiato do

51 6 JuDo 1153 esoñivo costadE uns bai lido tbo

May ponotration of too conmist PAry 18 thE BIDO AB & pODO-

tration oi tho

ao tho Guia: 1011088:1p 18 alsost 110.301001

No ano bojaral tint Xudois esfuzio w111 rusult in the

deslarod 111a5a1 tala acoso

TO aSCOiTIO FIADO ARSO DOOS MAdO dE JOU SOE BANDONO UU 11

finla ercept than do ast outidurius iso putsivi diüy:

SECRET

SFil?::

CLASSIFICATION

201-168881

FORM

---

## Page 185

14-00000

Page 2

SEUNET

SECURITY INCURMATION

1874-168

thes ide school more our be tied 1n with

FOOLen DE

lodo tho propanacion of a

schood pagur wlet

B0.1d

O30EA0EN 1E1

laadora and conditiona

nocámurtore mill bo advloud of this tible ditur lIdOE erritoa

man gets gotilute

11 JURA L$53

SECRET

SECURITYLE-ORMATION

15-16-3

---

## Page 186

14-00000

VIA:

ALT

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

SECRET DISPATCH NO.

SECURITY INFUIGATIOA

CLASSIFICATION

L73A0175

TO

Chief, IND

FROM

Chlof of Siction, say Jose

•SUBJECT: GENERAL: Oporational

SPECIFIC HUMANOID

DATE:

4 6 JU: 1953

do

20

30:

attackoù hereto is & paorandus Decoarce by HOIRO:D

outlining his sostro to depart

2953 for training in tho t.5, prior to roussimont

on or about 1 aurust

In viou of tho fact that

has sodived

and tho

10 waly 1953.

ue havo no aujostion to a copariuro dite of 1 lujuei, Iceling

tat

orientation of

sufficiont tlao renaina los a thorougà briofing and

In the unlisoly ovont that MUslID 10 inablo to comploto

his cover arrangaronts

and is vlow os 52s

Willingness to sorvo in any croa, it is sucrostos thet

considoratica nigat le given to nis uso

It is roquestod thit hoadquartors advise as to tho statue of

Its plane for tho training anil roassigment of subjost.

En018

16 June 1553

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

'COPY

FORM 10.

HAR

38 - 28A

201-168551

I4137

---

## Page 187

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY WORMATION

lecto to

5 juno 1553

go poparture ELitablo for Ma male

certaIn circunstances eurroundin my espilcation for

BOVO BIVOR FiBS tO L DUGOStiOn iN MiCrUnCE tO Ly

timetablo for departare.

originally 15 dig ureed by all

concernod that e departuro snorily after

(adj 1 lugiot 1953) voila be nost convorient for to suctiona

Thore Has sono quastic: es to

bit it ban lator decided that a noro direct

agsurance of ontry souls bo cranged by actual application for

begin incedlately. Subsecuont convurestions tital

hoverer, ha:o given to the lagression that headquartors a 111

await the approval of tho

bofore arranging

ny copa: ture for tho 0.?.

notually thora havo been no unusual obstaclos ascounturod 1a

the routine proparation of ducumondition,

but novertheless,

"rosilta will not jo

fortheo. 1ng in loss then turoo montia."

Locordingly, tili would

placo the "ost opticistlo rosults suse timo in laus soptendor.

Moanhilo, for fither urgont porsonal rosong, I da ENI.10U9

that my departure for no u.s. la rializod as par tho

original understinding, tht 19, siortly iItor

By this plan, corrosiondonso can bo meint inod

as concorns the arrivia.

of the dosimentition, and my pro-isud training poriod can con

colvably bo ascanplishod within this. Interval of tial. I£

1s deniod, or tho selay unisually groat,:

I fully comprahend tbe inco-taintico involved in naiong suab

a doparturo vithout tho residonce at tiso futire at-tIon

positivoly ostublisbod in ai irop.rod to ontor and vors in any

area solected at the discrition of the orga: ization. at I

an triing to arold cost of all 13 a possiblo Intoria walting

pariad of coveral soritis in a more or loss casual. status.

If sucs 1s Inovitablo, then lüt It taso placo statesidod

HUMAN DIDA

SECRET

SECUE MEEM ATION

End i sorrie

÷ 3-135

---

## Page 188

14-00000

ROUTINO

NON 150- 35-50

& JUNE: 53

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

IN 29507

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, CIA

SR REP SAM JOSE

ACTION:

INFORMATION:

ROUTINE

VIH 4

04227 2 JUNE 53

: COP, Flo FI/OPS, FU/STG, PP 2, PP/PAD, F1/RI 2

SANS 989

TO: DIR

CITE: SSANJ

RE: DIR 06369 (OUT. 64611 % SSANS 988 888 22509)

STATION CAPABILITIES BELIEVED STRONG.

201-168881:

COPY NO.

SECURITY INFORMATION

PRETEN COLANE

"'IS FORBIDDEN TO MAXE A COPY DE THIS MESSAGE.

---

## Page 189

14.00000

SECRET

SANS

988

PAGE TWO

8N 29507

PE PLENUING MAIL, OTHER DOCULENTS TO LOCAL FRESSO ALSO, SLATE 0F

VULIERAELE AS JUP FILES REFLECT COMMUNIST

BACKGRCUND OR SVIPATHIES IN LANY CASES.

PRESENTLY

PREPARING LETTERS TO PRESS EXPOSING KION CONIIES..

FURTHeR HUGOUN

ACTION NY NOT BE NECESSARY BUT WILL BE RECOIBAENDED IF NEEDED.

(END OF MESSAGE)

SECRET

idionind

---

## Page 190

14-00000

A1r. Faich

SER

UNAT

Security Information

1P2-11

• Chies of Stacion, Sar Jose

1 Guiel, Festern Hemlaphero Division

Oporat 10:131

hotteral of project IRANOID

LETZAK. CES 1195-102

MAY 1 4 1958

The approgrlavo loadquartert office has renoned project HMA:OID ≤05

tho period 1 March 1953 to 23 February 1954.

2o AgeIt IIIST ts0 incorportted into projoct RUVAliOID effective 1 warch

1953 AS a Gut out fOr HUMAIGID MIth INNA OIDAL aid HOLACID 2.

So the yourly expanses for project ludavulu are approved so folioses

Salary?

HUMANOID

13,000

MATOIL

288

HUMANGID- 2

480

RakhiOlas

110006

Travels

Operational Espenceas

Safehouses

1,000

250

600

600

PUTAL

$ 7,878

So C. King

5 kas 1953

3a San doso

1- It/Chrono

<I- Sabj. File

I- I'/Hail Roon

I- Regiatry

Oal. DOERPLINGER

ECRET

501-168881

---

## Page 191

i4-00000

SOUTHO

0. 35-83

CLA-SIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELUGENCE AGENCY

324444

SECUETY INFORATON

FROM:

6 MAY

53

ACTION:

DIRECTOR, gIA

SA, PEP SAN JOSE

4

180 22509

ROUTIN

18242719853

INFORMATIONA .

COP, FI, F.I/OPS, FI/S:C, PP 2, PP/PAD, F1/RI 2

§ANd 989

- TO: DIR

AE8 SSANJ 978 (81121247)

PSYCH

CITE: SSANJ

HUNTAND ID OZ AND OTHER LEADERS PRESENT WHEIS LOSS

DISCOVERED 1800Z & MAY. MOUSE THOROUGHLY SEARCHED.

GONCLUDED THEFT PROEABLY OCCURRED 2 MAY PERHAPS AFTERNOON

& PIET DURINE MAY DAY PARADE TIMEN HAUSE UNOCCUPIED.

NO NEIGHBORHODS CHECK FOR CLUES DUE TO FEAR OUTSIDE IVOR

* LEDGE OF LOSS.

HUMANO ID

201-168881-

SECURITY DETORHATION

18235947029

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COFY OF THIS MESSAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 192

14-00000

"2.=x.

SANJ. 981

SECRET

IN 22509

PAGE 2

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

## Page 193

14-00000

ROUTHO

KON A6 35-83

3 PAAY 53

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECURITY INPORMATION

IN 21247

TO

¡FROMA

INFORMATION:

DIRECTOR, CIA

SR REP SANJOSE

ACTICNE WH D

ROUTINE

20542 5 MAY 53

COP, FL, FI/OPS, FI/STE, PP 2, PP/PAD, FI/RI 2

SANE 978

TO: DIR

PSYCH

CITE: SSANJ

PA: EARLY MORNING I MAY HUMANOID ENTERED CONNIE HOS,

LIFTED PORTION PARTY FILES, AND PADE GETAWAY UNNOTICED. ENTRE

UNDERTAKEN HIS INITIATIVE AFTER LEARNING FROM HUMANOIDOZ COIRIES

THINKING MOVING FILES

TAKE CONSISTS

MILITANT VISITS,

MEMBERSHIF: 'APPLICATIONS, MINUTES POLITICAL COMNISSION MEETINGS;

CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY RECORD WITH LISTS ALL

•NATIONAL DELEGATES; MISCELLANEOUS PARTY DOCUMENTS. EXTENT DAMAGE

NOT KNOWN YET.

PHOCESSINO AND EVALUATION BY HUMANOID/

HUMANOIDOZ TO BE DELAYED PENDING PARTY REACTION. NO MENTION MADE

IN COLMMISSION NEETING 24$8Z ON 2 MAY. AT FRESENT THIS BELIEVED

INDICATING PARTY SIMPLY UNAWARE LOSSO

END OF MESSAGE,

201-168891

COPY Na

CURITY INFORMATTO

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAXE A COFY OF THIS MESSAGE

---

## Page 194

14-00000

CRYPTONYH

DIVISION

STATION ENA IRERA COStAReS

HRA DQUARTERS CASE OFFICERS

nds liazina

2. The renoial of profest Hutold was subaltted 6 February 1953

but has not got been approved for the period 1 starch 1953 to 28 Fobruary

J. Co EIRo

CHE

(Dato

501-168781

---

## Page 195

4-00000

ARINENT FOO!

1o Ageat

waD grantod provisional oparational clearaneo

26, Ostober 1952 and val aotivatad 1 llenabese 1952.

Re to mposentli

HIA IN TA

MALOID

Costa Pies

20 It 18 roquatod that the project outline reneuel an subitted os

6 Fobruary 1953 ba asended In Fart II, section 22, to Inoiado the followings

salarys

E488a1 Yeta 1953

81099] Y3Ax 1954

8360

€720

3o It lo therefor roquasted that projeet RUhlOID ba autharized on

Spereated cort, effeelive i March 1953, ef A10eo over the estimated cost

ol 15, 790 siah has leon cubaitted for arproval, for the pariod ending

28 Februasy 1954, suzing an seinded ostiatad totel cast of 87,878.

---

## Page 196

14-00000

Res

95 - 5 March 1953 -

operational

Attempted Penetration of

vIa

Former Syndicate Leader

This dispatch extracted from files by

Staff C/ICB, Room 2613 I Bldge, on 16

June 1954, for uses

connection with HUMANOID-3 case study.

ext. 3691,

001-168881

---

## Page 197

14-00000

- SEORET

Securitu Information

CRYPTONTH

HUMANOLD

DIVISION

STATION _

SaR Jonze Costa Bloa

HEADQUARTEES CASE OFFICERE

dr la Banks

Extension.

lo The attacbed Revised Projeot Outline 1s subnitted for renoval

effective 1 Marob 1953 to 28 February 1954.

2. This projoct enompasses all the agents presently used by the

Station. The principal agent HUMANOID has demonstratod particular ability

had also providod the Station with

in addition to his assigned

objootives.

3. Repaits heve been factual, the inforration can usually be relled

upon, asd all Informatior ls of operational value.

Security practices bave

boen sound, though haspered by the problen of procuring a safehouse which

Lo permanentiy seoure.

lo 520 departure of the principal apent pron Coste Rica sometise

will necessitate re-assigning

when the latter 1a cleared.

18 gradually aumming full responsibility as

•cutout for RUMANOID-1 and HU-ANOID-2. The two agonts who will assure

ERMAHON' a present

functlona will be thoroughly famillar

v1th their durles by the time HUlANOW leaves.

So It 18 anticipated that at about uid-year this projeot will be ro-

submitted as tuo separato projects. In the meantime, however, 1t seeme

adisable to raquest reseval for a full year.

6. Attached 18 a l18t of tho dispatches and disseuinations based on

In'armation provided by the principal agent and sub agents. Of the 118

roporto subaltted, 91 vero used in 86 disseninations.

Attaobnentes

1 - Liot (see par. 6, above)

2 - Revised Projoot Outline

3 - Original Project Out1100

..

KING

Da to)

SECRET

201-168851

---

## Page 198

14-00000

: Gare!

Security Iniormation

REVISED PROJECT OUTLINE

Fart, I

Lo AREE Of OporAtiOnE arà HeadauarterAs Projeet l0 confinei lo

the goograpbical limita

with leadquarters and principal

nativity looated in the capital city

12. Baserenend Brofoot la related thrugh the provisioni os 1)

HUM BOLD 1

HUMANOID -2

HOLMOID -3

30

Pli500a28

A. Miectima:

so Catout services as assigned.

Do Discots Commnlat Party ponetsatios (HUMANCID-3).

co Direots

Project (SUHANOIDa] and 2).

do

Fradios Information on

oireles of which subject ia a samber.

W11l endeavor to obtain parallel penetration of the

(Communist Party of

W1l1 endeavor to develop additiomal sources of.ImPortes

ton on

palitioai sovemente.

So Barrates

8o

(Comundot Party af

and other VI sponsared gruips.

bo Leftlot unversity and intollectual groupe.

untra-national1at10 and ants-U.So groups.

do

SECRET

---

## Page 199

14-00000

..311

Security Informatior

C. Raakas

do Persontad:

this project conforms to the taske assigned to the San Jose

Stetson in SOI of 19 August 1952, 2a, 20, and 20.

This projoat, In addition to HUMANOID, InvOlves the fOllowing

agentsi.

C52.1

HALNOID?

HUSLNOID-3

bo

HUMANOID 18 60 AzeriCAn cItIIen bOrn In

Subject spant approsanataly five yeers doing general Als Force Intolligeros

work after jolning the U.S. Alr Parce 1n April 1946. Subjeat 16 Arsently

living 1n San Joss, uhare he has boen until recently

Since Juns 1949, when project I ANOID vas first activated, subject has :

beon the most valuable single agent of the san Jose Station.

HUMAHOID-I 10 & Costa Pical, employed 1n tine

in San Joso.

HUMAXOID-2 10 a Costa Ricang employed in the

1a San dosa.

BUSANOID-3 19 & Costa Rican, and nember of the

Ha hag

providad consistent high-level isfornation on Carmuist actirities by

‚virtus of bls position in the Party, MIMIST 19 a returalised Aerican born

who is self-emploged and has lived 1n

since 1947, after

servlis 1a the U.S. Army as aa laterpretar In a Pollo camp 1a Virginia.

So. S028

Do Cass officer in contaot with HUMANOID:

Do by the agent perforaing his operational takes Sabjeot la

establiabed 1n Sen Jose on a purely personal basis with so apparent connection

vith the San Jose Station.

Be 18 & hose ouner; married, and a fully accepted

seaber of the carmnity on that basis.

Sas Josa, but has recentiy reigned 1a preparation for his eventual deperture

STan Costa Rios after tbe July

(Sae Binetables)

6. Contest and Countentions

ao

Case offIcer and HUMANOID havo weekly appointmento ubich are

hold in many places

Do

HUNAROID and the fallodogs

SECRET

---

## Page 200

14-00000

Security

intertrator.

(1)

HUMANOID1 and 23

HUMA NOID

(2)

HUMANOID-38 A safehouse in use since Hay 1952 15 presently

being used.

Dus to certain security vealnesses in ext

and entry, 1t vill be terminated at the end of Jamary 1953.

Another safehouse 1a presently under devoloment, as vell

as a thakay dead drop andl

to minindee I1TE

contacts.

C. A safehouse is indispensable to debrlel LUBANOID-3, uho bao to

Barchousen have had to be aberdoned dua to demonstrated uralnesses, but the

now safehouso should prove satisfactosy..

To Saétrel!

The contral of HUMANÜID 1s based upon hia past service record

with the U.S. Goverment, denvastrated loyalty, and judgent of the present

And formar Chiefs of Station. In addition MadUlD 1s & lose Catseng 3u

at prosent depanda almost holy on the financial assistanos ba raceives for

the parloreanco of his duties.

HUSSANOID

HUMANOID

HIMA HOLD

8

Beatal Lausers

do spedial equipment is involved at tha present time.

% Soolations This project was orignally saltlated with the

cooperation of the Panara Statios.

contimed coordination vith Panasa,

or any other station, l6 not considered necessary of desirable..

SECRET

---

## Page 201

14-00000

Security hitor motioni

10.

Zanetables HUMATOID vas engaged by the San Jose Station 1n

June 1949 and haa boen a nost satisfactory aront since Incent.smn.

1a prasant)» mlanning to leave San jose,

Has

but has agreed to reinin until after

July 1953. When be leaves,

fOr

HUMASOlD and 2, which are presently being gradually turied over to

will be taken over by

who will then have direct contact

with the cage officer on mico the sane basis as HUNANOID. By that time.

anouid have operation clearance to sot aa

SOS HUMANOID 3.

Part II

"No Entreated Goats

базату!

HUMANOID

HUMA HOLD 1

HUHANOID-2

HUMA NOID- 3

Agont Expersess

Safohouses.

Blasad YeAr 1953

$1,000.00

90.00

160.00

560.00

200.00

200.00

Ed5cal Year 1954

82, 000.00

192.00

320.00

1,120.00

400.00

400.00

Local Transportatios,

fascellansous supplies,

ott.

50.00

82,266.00

100.30

84, 532.00

120 Spectal Problems or Constantas

a caroer in tho intolligence field,

HUMANOID 1a Interested 1n miding

and has denonstrated illingness to

continue this work in Argentina. While in the United States in the fall

of 1952, he talked with the forner chief of the San Jose Stetlon, now at

Hosdaverters. and was told that in the event of bia removal to Argentina

be would be centimed on his present salary as a

mirate ta was also advised to request covert training in the United

Statas proparatary to going to Argentir, and was told that at the tize of

that request 1t would be up to leadguarters to deteruine the advisability

of parias axy part of transportation for hingels and lantly to the Unlted

States and fron there to argentina.

SECRET

---

## Page 202

14-00000

2417

SECRET

?1 Jaruary 1953

HELORANDU! FOR:

SUBJECT

Chief, Wi Division

: Humanoid

la

At the request of

I ret with Huramid on the

occasion of his visit to Hastington last lovember and made cemain oral

cormitments on behalf of the Division.

to cormitment, borever, was very

specific and all were cleared with the Division in advarce.. Xy partici-

pation in

the matter was, of course, ching to the fact that I had

recruited funanoid originally and enjoy his confidence.

2.

Hunanoid in the past has pursued his activities on behalf of

this organization as somewhat of a profitable avocation. His perfomance,

nonetreless, has teen outstanding fron the point of vier of iritiativi

production and understanding of operational principles.

He kould now

like to make it a career but lacks sufficient irfomation upon which to

base a decision and, being partially aware of the uncertrinties involved,

insists upon maintaining an alternate vocation.

In pursuit of this latter

objective, he plans to move to Fuenos hires in June or July of 1953 and

establish hirself there on a perranent basis.

His inquiries were to

ascertain what effect these plars would have upon his present and future

relationship with this organization.

3. I advised Fumanoid to continue with his plans as outlired above,

stipulating onlv that. he remain in his present location until after

and assured him that as a consequence of his past

satisfactory service he kould be nicked up in Dueros Aires at a concensa-

tion at lcast eoual to trat a.

He Is Besents receiving.

l. I then explained that our participation in his move would

necessarily have to be deternired at a later date but requested him to

keep us inforred of his plans on a contiming basis, assuring hit. that

It would do no ham to request such assistance as he might need. In this

connection, I advised him to request foral training,

which he has never

had, implyirg that this would be grarted, and suggested that a formal

contract, future conpensation, travel experse and so forth could best be

negotiated here at that time.

5. I recommend, therefore, that furanoid be brought to headquarters

for a period of training and that a contract agent relationship contain

ing. the usual travel and allowance provisions be foralized at that time.

Basic compensation should certairly consider his past record and proven

reliability in addition to the initiative he has shown in laying on his

Although his future assigment is none of my business, I

would mint out that he has proven adept

and suggest that his talents would be amatly circumscribed

It assigned

201-168881

SECRET

SLEARITY INTORCSHOR

Baward A. Mareliu

xecutive Secretariat, DD/F

---

## Page 203

14-00000

al. с.a...

SECRET

sEcurity manentios

COOKTRY:

Costa Rica

OBJECTIVES AND TASKS:

SALARY:

EVALJATION OF SERVICES:

EVALUATIOF OF INFORMATION:

ERSA-56

OPERATIONAL REVICH

CRYPTONIX::

PERIOD: • Hey 1 to Decerboa 31, 1952.

No Change.

21,000 per month

effoctivo Narch 1

1952, par DIR 17304.

Excellent and of major laportanco

to this stitlon.

Of considerable value vith reforenco

te. Information produced

ünrough sub-

agents.

During the period under

review, agent has done independent

reporting

and has produced sevorul

reports of vülue on

GIE:R FACTORS:

The renoval of operational restrio-

tions on ajent's activities during

this period has parnitted fullar

use of bis casabilitios: 1.e..

CONNENTS:

Operation of this project ved greatly

-enhanced by the salary raisa nich

was efrastive in March: 1952. subject

has resigned his positis:

and 1s now able to

devote more time to our interests as

as rogult of the betserment of bis

financial status. In liöreaber Agent

travelled to the Unitai States ano

contacted

Chief of Stat: in,

San Jost, at which

time the possibilltles of roassign-

ment to another

country

were discissed. After discussionaith

WHD officers,

aSTised HUMAHOID

A RLASSIGEIT GOLO 3E CO SIDERID.

¡Tula matter

to salag severed 1n

dispatch fora).

SECRET

SECRET INHUNMATION

201-168881

---

## Page 204

14-00000

ROUTINO

35-92

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

21 CCT 52

GUT 63552

SECURITY INFORMATION

TO:

FROM:

SA REP SAN JOSE

DIREGTOR, CiA

WHD

450

ROUTINE

14152 23 00T 52

INFORMATION:

ADWIN, CAO, R1 2

DIR

24876

TO:

CITE: DIR

ASK HULANDID TELEPHONE

ON APRIVAL JEF 2-6109.

RASG/CTA CONIENT: RETYPED IN MESSAGE CENTER.

F CALDHELL

OIL DOEPFLINGER

201-168881

SECURITY INFORMATION

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

COPY NO.

(40)

---

## Page 205

14-00000

Arrass

ROUTING

16 OUT 52

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

SECURITY INTORMATION

1: 49232

TO:

FROM:..

DIRECTOR, CSA

SH REP SAN JOSE

ROUTINE

87422 16 N9T 52

INFORMATION:

CFI, OPS, RI 2

35249 955

TO:

TIR

OPEHA

CITE: SSANJ

HUHAN ID PLAPIVING DEPART FOR STATES & NOV, ARRIVING

HASHINGTON 6 NOV OR 7 iLOV.

AND RETURING SAN NOSE ABCUTIO NOV. PURPOSE IS TO VISIT STATES,

FAMILY AND FRIENDS FOR FIRST TIME IN SEVEN YEAHS. SURJECT ALSO

DESIRES CONTACT

AND/OR OTHER HIS OFFICE: TO DISCUSS

POSSIEILITIES FUTURE ASSIGNEST Di OTHER

COUNTRY,

WE IN FAVOR VACATION TRIP DESPITE TEMPORAMY

STEPRUPTIOR HUSANDID GPERATICH AND RECCIMEND HES CONTACT. PLEASE

ADVISE YOUR REACTION APD CONTAST INSTRUCTIONS IF APPROPRIATE.

201-168881

COPY NO.

SECURITY INFORMATION

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

(11)

---

## Page 206

14-00000

SEGRET

SECURITY iS OPIATION

13 October 1952

MENORANDUM FOR CHIER, BRANCH ITT

SUBJECT: HUMANOID

1o Attached hereto is a letter received from HUMANOID by Hr.

at Headquarters and the former Chief of Station

at Costa Rica, who recruited HUMANOID.

2. Particular reference is nade to Paragraph 6 regarding a change

in assignment.

in 1yss he should be brought to Headquarters for training,

and tnat no should be converted to Stalf Agent for Dossible reassign-

ment

under deep cover.

HUMANOID Hill go stale in

and that a change should be made to

better utilize his services. Although subject is the principal source

in Costa Rica, he feels that arrangements could be made for an orderly

turn-over and departure..

3o Thile I tas assigned in Panana I net subject, at which time

he was contemplating moving to

Panana,

norking for the Panama station:

He impresses me very well and would

have been quite an asset, but the deal fell through due to the higher

cost of living in Panay and the fact that he would lose considerable

La I do not know whether it can be worked out but I certainly

would go along with recomending that he be afforded training in the

•So and that he be reassigned, preferably to

or one of the

ther countries where he is rgently needed for additiona

The question of his' converting to Staff Agent might be worked

out also.

ураз. Сетти

WH. B. CALDWELL

Chief, FI/uH

501-168881

sfff

SECRET

---

## Page 207

14-00000

ana -ass

---

## Page 208

14-00000

FORM NO.

Ov 1931

35-82

2y' SEPTEITOR 1752

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

$30207

SECURITY INFORMATION

CUT 57598

73

TO:

FROM:

CHISE CE STATION (COSZA RICA) (SANJ)

DIPSTOR

WH

INFORMATION: CFT, OPS, RA 2

DIR 21343

TO:

SSARIJ

RE:

TFS-A-1272

450

ROTHE

2203Z 29 SEPT 52

CISE: DIR

PARA i3 REFRESETIS ZA VIEN TILI CURSUI POLITICAL STUFICU

- CLARIFTED. ARRATCRVETIS LIGET LATER RE MADE IN YOU BEAL NECESSARY

TO FOVIDE NOCENICAL EXPERT

JOEVER, EXISTIRG

FICILITIOS ARE CONDRAGE

BELIEVED ADEQUATE ECS OUR FOEDS.

201-168881

SECURITY INFORMATION

..IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

COPY NO.

ROUTING

140)

---

## Page 209

14-00000

4211

SECRET •

Security Information

naH. 808

Chios of Statdow, Sen Jose

Culef, WE

SEP 12

Profoot HUMEROID

RITE

5A8.401225

8850l 1132

5483-536 (Ii 30219)

8G1J-802 (IN 31520)

Din 26245 (072 50019)

DID 27284 (UT 52565)

DO POLOGE ANTANUID USE eperoued 1e the enourt of 86000.00 Per 8be

parlial & Mural 1952 to 28 Foleury 1950.

This enount Man baBed on the

folladra furling requiremanto es set farla in the project outliva utica

ens presouted foe approval In kay 19528

Salarys.

17. 1952

881953

HE LEUID

BUSHUIDEL

111AJID-2

40. 80911834

d0s1010-1

800.00

76.00

81600.00

128.00

152.00

452000

256.00

904000

72.00

116,000

Ages: 677025688

200.00

400.00

Sato Fouros

200.00

400.10

20001 not Bop2100, 080.

Wal!

81978.00

202.89

$9950.00

20

LIMAICID, has been teralsated, thorafaro the total avallable 805

amponaltura by tha station ($6000.00) caraedo the anount roquested (85934.00)

Dy 8282.00 (672.00 plus $144.00 plus 866.00).

I. Co KIHO

Do P. GIBBOHS

SECRET

201-168881

---

## Page 210

14-001000

SECRET

Security Information

• 2 =

So Projest finanalnl recardo In Haadquartera asa salatalral 15

Do So CUTTONSY.

secordingly, DIn 16246 (OT 50019) was caressed la dallas

unitso Unfortuataly, to vure sot avara of recent Mastution in tse rato

Of omahange unea the esasago was sont and tha asanto quated vere not

exfilalent so salutain agent salerion on the provloualy estabilebod

esalo. Then problem has bean discussed with appropriate affices bere as

Indicated la tha attached resoraidun for rocord nich no believe to ta sallo

azalanstory.

ho. In tha erant that the current finanalal status of projoct inMatO

do not heroby clarisied to your satiaraction, le will be hapiy to furtian

suzy siditionel Informition thit mey bo roquired.

Artecimants- HaTro For ReCord

PROZISA

9 September 1952

J. C. FING

By fa E. Oberst

SECRET

---

