(1o4-10186-10114) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

+ Tate wostertal contains information affecting the National Ovtense of the United Giatee withie the meaning of the Eeplonace Laws, Tile

VE UBC. Bere TH and TH, the trunsminicd of rereletion of which Io any Manne te ee UNsUIhorised Peron te prohibited by tw,

SECRET
LS FOREIGN Drssem
COUNTRY Cuba Report NO. CSCI-316/01236-64
SUMECT Enlo BENITEZ Gimenez — CATE DISTR, 8 October 1964
\ : : : “NO. PAGES «2 :
\ : RETURN TO CIA. :
1 : Background Use Only oe
es aur Do Not Reprod
\ INFO,
puce a Washington, D. C.
DATE ACQ. October 1964. = FIELD REPORT NO.

4 T__TWIS 15 UNEVALUATED MORMATION, SOURCE GEADINGS ARE OL/INITIVE. APPeAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE

source: A former Cuban IS officer who Served with’ the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964..

Headquarters Comments

te The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided: by the source and includes supplemental
anformation from the records of this Agency.

It 4s requested that the addressees take no action on any of the
individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first
checking with this Agency.

Source identified Enio BENITEZ. oie s ed avon)
travel manifest as a Cuban courier .1,2,3,4

Headquarters Comments

1. In a report dated 13 October 1950, an untested source reported
that one Enio BENITEZ was a Communist in the administration
office of the Cuban newspaper Hoy; he was in charge of Habana
sales.

2. Included in a report dated 5 October 1962, was a list of Cuban.
diplomatic couriers who frequently traveled to and from
Santiago. Erico BENITEZ Gimeno appeared on this list and was
reported to have been born in 1925 in Cuba. He carried diplomatic

passport number 217/61 and was single.

3. The records of this Agency reveal that Enio BENITEZ Gimeno
left Montevideo for Santiago on 21 January 1963.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(arene Tea Te Te [eee RRR ore
REP__CIXCLANT _CINCSO #

Tete Fld det ibution indicated by “I

nme



2ybv

4.

6.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01236-64

a 2u

In a vroport dated 3 March 1963, an
[reported that Enio BENITES
Yom Habana on 15 October 1962, and left for Port of Spain,
Trinidad,.on 16 October 1962. He departed Trinidad on 18 October
1962. BENITES was born gn 22 August 1925 in Cuba and his occupation

. Was. listed a& diplomat.

‘An 8 March 1983 report stated that Bnio BENITES Gimeno arrived in
Tokyo on 18 February 1963.

A report dated 15 March 1963 stated that Enio BENITEZ Gimeno, a
Cuban national, arrived in Colombo on 14 March 1963, fora three
day visit at the Cuban Embassy.

On 3°*May 1963, it was reported that Enio BENITES Gimeno transited
Karachi enroute to-Colombo for New Delhi.

in a report dated 12 June 1963,

eno is a Cuban diplomatic courier

who arrived in Kingston from Habana via Mexico on 8 June 1963,
and left for Toronto on 8 June 1963. BENITEZ was born on 22

August 1925 in Santiago de Cuba.

The following information concerns the travel of Enio BENITEZ
Gimonez during 1964;

Arrived Brussels from Amsterdam
Departed Brussels for Vienna
Arrived Rome

21 February 1964
22 February 1964

23 February 1964
26 February 1964 Arrived London from Paris

28 February 1964 - Departed London
16, 20, 23 March 1964 = Traveled to Mexico from Habana

5 April 1964 - Departed Copenhagen for The Netherlands

16 April 1964 - Departed The Netherlands for Brussels

17 April 1964 - Departed Brussels fro Vienna

20 April 1964 = Arrived London from Paris

9 July 1964 - Arrived Karachi from New Delhi

SECRET ;
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
