[o4-10186-10170) a [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MNoee

REPRO RT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

agecting the National Detensy of the United Blates within the meantog of the Saplonage Laws, Te

1, UBC Geos, TH) and TH the Wanmaimion OF revelation of RID In any manner to a8 Unauthorised person ts prohibited Dy 18W.
SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO. CSC1-316/00801-65

COUNTRY Cuba
SUMECT “Beltran” (an alias) DATE DISTR. 17 February 1965
ciA NO. PAGES 1
AN TOS REFERENCES CS~311/00115-64
nigg wesegtonnd reduce (page 11)
tf ot Rep? 8 July 1964

No. 1964
pace & Washington, D. C.
Date acq. January 1965 FIELD REPORT NO.

THis 15 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GAADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL Of CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE,

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

‘SOURCE:
Service until April 1964.
Headquarters Comments
The following report is oné of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.
It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
.the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. “Beltran” 4s a photographer in the Laboratorio Fotografico
(Photographic Laboratory - LF) of the MI Department (Department
of Technical Operational Support) in the Direccion General de
Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).
2. "Beltran," a negro, was born between 1930 and 1935. He
is five feet seven inches tall, weighs between 145 and 150 posnds,
and has a slender build. He is described as being very effeuinate.
Headquarters Comment
1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
on "Beltran."
NO FOREIGN DI3SEM

STATE Tow. Taney, Travr Taw NSA, ‘OCR z
REP CINCLANT CINCSO #_ YSNS

[[iesrer Field deribwtion lndloted by “2") |

1

meme

YR
