# 104-10005-10158

## Page 1

1104-10005-10151

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

XAHZ-22431

10 Sep 64

ITEM PREPARED FOR THE WARREN COUMISSION

BY SR/CI/RESEARCH entitled

"KGB HANDLING OF FOREIGNERS IN THE USSR". SteerS.

for chreialogical listing.

On 24 Aug 1964, C/SR/CI/R reviewed the Connission drait on the

portion of its report " lating to foreign conspiricy. Several state

ments therein were provided with fobtnote numbers, but no footnotes.

Mr. Slawson asked orally that we provide appropriate footnotes. The

attached item provides in essay form the material needed to supply

the footnodes. This item was sent to the Commission on 10 September

1964.

For further information on this items see:

Lee H. Wigren

Jane Curtis

See XAA2-224

823-382

Document Number

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1978

LIWEA

CI/RA!

!

ATT.

Go COPY

201-289248

---

## Page 2

13-00000

190.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

MEMORANDUMA FOR:

SUBJECT

ANT. J. LoRE RADiÍB

General Gonasel

ТОЛІКОТ!'S СОФЇВІД О ЦЗО

ABanacination al tresident Kennedy

KGB Handling of Foreigners la the USSR

I. In response to an oxal requent from a member of your staff,

I am foruardias the following information on KGB handling of foreigners

in the USSR. Ono ol the major responsiblities of the KGB 1a that of

contralliag and gatherlag information on foxelga nationals within the

barders of the USSR. To carry aut thia responsibility it makes extensive

use of agento and informants draun lrom amang Sovlet citisens with thom

fareigners come in contact. f'or example, many lí not all of the guides

provided foreignere by inturies, the official tourist agency of the USSR.

are KGB agento os informanta, Hotel and festaurant personsel are also

often used la talo capacity by the KGB. Only certain restaurante and

hotels is the sajor citles of the USSH aId normally open to foreign visitors.

A high parcentago of the employses la liese selected hotels and restaurants

atE KGB agents or informants.

E. Foreiga nationals who request Soviet citizenship or permanent

residenca la the USSR aro, of course, a special category of forelguers.

uno kas examines all such cases mila great caro lo determine motivation

and posalblo uneíulzone to the USSA. Once a forelgaer has been granted

citinenship or persolasion to reside la the USSR he do subject to sur-

velllance dad cantral ibrough auch measures an periodie interviowa vita

seighbars and associates..

Document Numbex

833-382

for FOlA Raview on JUN 1978

7S/-Jrio 3 Montres

Thomas H. Karamessines

Mepudy director for Plani

Distribution: Orig. & 2 - Addressee uruper

CS COPYROZ ACHO GOB 042819989248

C/SR/CIR: L.H. Wigren;cl

3 Sept. 1964

Tee Fäesert, 123,1216, 125;1

149, 1:

Waded dieted htti

---

## Page 3

00000-&L

See Sanitisad File a

Number

1266-

For storile copy of this docunon

W!?1?"11i

- todmull Insmand

N5O VISIVER A10-7 107

aTE nUL

W?A F6666224 N20F

cicatrataso boo ato on Dodorio, condo do Corporad00 lo 4301020: 4201

il titt

clei maome da Mentrere E The dotti delle Joland

0a108 1:9 69 COn WA 1021

CHuh# 1906911

trascrittoddioe

"to:

Cartello e dualitat miold cosentitt

howatt rE!

De me le cene anneore romagne Chee Wil To fuor 9!

le CA!!"

115r2ct

MANCINA ESTE:?

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Correspondence and memoranda relating to "KCB Handling of Föreigners

in the USSR."

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA MSTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

ATT. | 70: XAAZ-22431

Co COPY

201-289248

---

## Page 5

13-00000

clssodraoid Ccadtor dsa

weroer cecfaedete

in to vi.

---

