104-10119-10182 [ 2022 RELEASE elisa PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
: bt
cee

” 16 February 1970

: | Director of Security

Comments on Manuscript Give Us This Day;

CIA and the Bay of Pigs Invasion by Edward J.
Hamilton

This ‘manuecript has ‘evidently been kicking around in publishing
circles since at least mid-1968, presumably without CIA clearance.
William Buckley of the National Review seems to have been "shopping” it
at one point, One publisher rejected it as too "controversial", and noted
its.”"confidential” nature as well as its potential for libel suits.

“2, In the foreword to thie manuscript, the author (whom I shall
to under his assumed name of Hamilton), describes the book as a
2ccount" of CIA's role in the Bay of Pigs affair in which he was
‘: nfor- CIA participant for 19 months. He notes in the foreword his hope
that someone would have written this book so that he would not have to do
it; now convinced that, if he does not write it, it will never be written,
he has taken up hie pen “yeluctantly and in a mood of nostalgic bitterness. *
states that he has used no official files or documente and has
id no one in preparing this work, Where true names are used in
Jnanuscript for CIA personnel, he writes that they have been publicly
mitified before, and in this contention I believe that he is correct, with
‘possible exception offjim Noel The author's claim that this book
would provide no information not known to Castro's intelligence service,
or that details this late are of no value to the opposition,is, in my view,
seriously open to question.

3. The book is, in general,favorable to CIA actions in the Bay of
The villains of the piece are certain liberal figures in the Kennedy
inistration (Schlesinger, Goodwin, Stevenson) and to some extent,
President himself. In his concluding chapter, the author's bitterness
disguised againet those in the Administration and the press who took
the opportunity of the Bay tad Pigs incident to attack and denigrate CIA.

4. Mesers.: Bissell ‘and Barnes and the author's other CIA co-
workers in the Cuban Project, by and large, are given quite favorable
freatment. One exception is General Cabell, whom the author excoriates,
2 it is apparent that Hamilton's opinion of Jerry Droller is far from

jackgrou
Do Not Reproduos ven)

. : 2s Minn Ae AN



a ~  FYES ONL -

-2-

: Rie apparent that Hamilton feels very
Pi ‘and its aftermath, to the extent thet he'to willing to pat hijo Saver:

‘than a fow pager of reading to identify the. sation, as;

os é “Attached hevewith is oe

manuscript particularly as it affects CIA security. ‘This analysis states ©

what the author states, whether right or wrong.’ Where I have occasion:
sc rea trend iter are f= weackate DL"

“Distribution ~.°
Origk 2 - D/



gpa

it wan after the Bay of

dds that he had worked with Barnes as a member of the team ~

ecalied to Headquarters to become ‘Chief of Political Acti¢nin-an' '-

which would form a provisional government in Cuba
out, ‘Hamilton's base was to be in‘Cesta Rica, “provided ex-President «
btain Costa Rican agreement (p.11).-° [This link could
in wiew of Figueres' recent re-election as President

Bet thi the manuscript introduces the Project Chilef.as Jake
resumably Mr. Esterline}, who is referred to as Jake throughout {p. 12).
also meet Droller about whom there is some “diversity in attitudes" a
‘ashong CIA officers, Droller's operational name of Frank Bender is noted (p. 13),
-and he is referred to as Bender throughout the rest of the manuscript. [This
: is not the first tims Droller has been identified as Bender; his name was 7
* - Blown by Arthur Schlesinger in his book A Thousand Days. in 1965.}. Bender's ~~
"cover telephone arrangements in Miami and New York, which allowed him to
answer local calls there at his Washington desk, are disclosed {p.14).
‘Hamilton states that Bender told him that as far as he knew “Richard Helms, -

‘Chief ons ft Servi had act been cut in®-{p. 14). <

oe -r7)


oo BES Gall

SEGRE.
EVES OLY

BOA


w

that he visit Havana,’ and that the CIA Cover Staff provided him with the
_wnentation for hie operational alias of Edward J. Hamilton which he kept for
duration of the Project (p. 23). Upon returning from Havana, Hamilton ~
prepared a report and recommendations, ‘The first recommendation was that
oo Caste be assassinated before oF ecincident with the invasion.’ Hamiltos con-
= . this his principal recommendation, but Barnes would only tell him
subsequently thet it was in the: bands of a “special group." "50 Tar as ‘Hamilton

spark plug. behind the project™ and the Administration's focal point-and trouble.
shooter regarding it. ‘The General gave Hamilton his private telephone ee ;
br in the event that he had something for the Vice President's urgent
App: S1A-32). 7" Ne oak Scere eee geese cae eo eee



t'e plans. in Hamilton's view, the emphasis was on utilizing Cubans <a
originally ae ae ae Cuba whan they became’,

headquarters
‘ sand tee wellaents atnien a0 om abscoeeias Te fee ese :
{p.39), as well as CIA subsidies to Cuban exile ‘groups and mowapapers.
aan intra-office squabbie with the paramilitary elements of the Project, ve
".  Manilton leses control ef sallitasy hardware, ‘s decision he considers basi-~'»*
“eally wrong in that It placed the paramilitary peogle in charge of what the



ww Sar) w
ce BSI
AGeapter A (oreammensing at page. “a. This | isa second Cunpter TT and

ly was oo paler

attempt Seas he rreme'h wing tated,
ad to set them wp in Mexico City, to which Hamilton'aad hi
_wepaived, Hamilton's office was to be independent,
was tobe that of a fiction writer. . ‘Hamilton’

man In Mason anmed bam ts Me principal manager of

indoor porn ae pemretniap on aol garage toedt try row ;
ng children w! he should be Living under an assumed name in:
i and children were Feed to come back

Lei




’ EYES UaLY =

: .of those that got there, ‘and the-poor record for delivering supplies to those
matis! Castte guerrillas who might have gotten tate Cube. ‘Maritime operations

2: a ae es eg
: ‘aware was it asserted that the Cubsa underground of population was ached-
‘He notes the many.statements.
y ouhere Sront uninformed,



~ ‘EYES ONLY 2

" ie ee : ae
A “ta es: eae pera ane some exiticiem at Ambaseséor
Bonsal, whom be describes os saeitecteal ee cals piberon,)

Because de felt him tobe’ . ar oe a a
‘the issues" (p.96). Hamilton offers his criticism ~
because the latter bad stayed with ‘Castro too long
theme, ‘betrayed™ find- °

TWO


~ EVES GiLY al

_. ‘a chance'to reflect back on the CIA sole in the overthrow of Guatemalan. =
"S » President Agbens: “He recalls the three exiled leaders of Guatemala, his _
own support for Dr. Cordova to head the now government, and State's veto

Col. Yéigoras-ss “vaguely authoritarian.” At a crucial moment, howeves,
‘Dr. Cordova had te undergo cancer surgery and therefore could not ve selected;

choice fell.ca Castillo Armas. New Ydigoras was President but was eub-
sequently overthrown because he had done so much for the U.B, and Raine

Guba (pp. 119-122) a ae i 2

oe me ATH, ea a era cas

3 Bob Davis, = ‘dn Guatemala,| is mentioned as.a parti

“paint ‘in the breakfast with Ydigoras. - {Davis' mame has-been published -
previoudly.)} . o auiis yo Set Pee FO gts

25". 3. .Ae the Gastemalan trataing site, Hamilton refers to being greeted
by an American Army Lt. Colonel whose name wes “Frank.” tha
footnote, Haillton adds that this officer had been detailed to CIA for the’ ae
‘Project; and that “Credible allegations of his actions during the invasion
strongly suggest that he was to some extent mentally unbalanced” (p. 124). sai
‘Hostile conversations between Hamilton and "Frank", as well as the initial
anfortanate polemics of Frente.chief Tony Varona, are described." "°°
‘presence cf Green Berets to help in the training of fhe. 9.
rnatind Leland Labels aeecene, borbtecciattian!

b hah


bd w

1. “This ‘chapter gariting >
anand within Rhee Teste: one of whose members is trying to bring 16 Manalé.,

ang Se IS

con tore She state of readiness (p.148).

original point of invasion as too “noisy. : b :
mesting and asks Barsee if everything was going well. “Hamilton Interprets
which the Intion had subsequently donied.° ‘Mazailton ‘alse

that Barnes had hept 2 mam a a ath Saigo renin inf



Bi et sue ce acm + care
te 1 ton states that the Joint Chiefs of Staif assessment team
swisited the Guatemalan camps and issued an enthusiastic sppraisal as to =
‘the Brigade's training and battle readiness {p.160). The author notes

‘Pentagon to play down their role. ~~
2, Jae footnote, ‘Hamilton writes that afier the favasion Bender
as gélled” by the fact that the exiles referred tobi freely, :and usual
‘gullatioring terme {p: 162); Hamilton ‘aloo adds that he learned that
VNoel-and i Ete. Kings ‘crony", were becoming ‘inc peas:

"active ‘among non-Freate ‘Cubans in Washington and New York (p. 163).
[This presumably cut across Hamilton's political action NnessJ oS.

“ghat thie was important in the.light of post-invasion atte by the

wo Be The remainder of-the chapter is-largely taken up with discussions
of intra-Frenté problems, with a note of the fact that American infiltra-: |:
‘ton operations inte Cuba had virtually ceased because-of theif lack of © —

ey
FVES GLY

OQATN


xetaraing'to thy Cabsn ‘Constitution cf 1940 which the others sll

189), As’ result of the desire to force Ray.

Gat


: 3 Tae iio ec Maen Siting pesscaianly Bt
“ Philip) ta the propaganda work. i An attempt te secure Mexican evopera-
~ fon to obtain a re-fusling stop for the Guatemalan-based aircraft scheduled
to bomb Cabs failed because of the venality of a Mexican air force officer,
“stews aeied CIA renld nat mel sberheaemraaete Sh0%, iota won am erret i

3. ith eagaré to the selection of the Bay of Pigs landing site, .
* SRamilton states that assault plans wore almost eatirely in the hands of the a
-“Pentagon:{p. 203). ee ee ee bedi
ee Suen : q

“he Gi project ‘officer is flows to the Carrier hess, fagehip of

a naval task force that was assémbled in Puerto Rican waters. ‘This ~
~ officer was to serve as liaiace ‘between thé naval task force: commanter,

CIA Headquarters and the 2 Cuban Seignde — .



7 aoa age hte mcm as to foe oxtgina af the plamad ax0'stsince®
fe received it‘and was advised of the trae nature of the planes, . Hamilton



previous chapter is that the meeting with Rusk included the Presideat, -
_Rostow, and Stevenson, “[Other authoritative accounts have included caly -

‘wemiavks in this chapter aad inane conclasion the

Rusk, Cabell and Bissell; Tracy Barnes has sald he also was present. -3t
is believed that the Presidest was not at the meeting but was contacted by
Rusk on the telephone at his Virginia home.” see was proven te 20)
J." tp. 219)

: Pe OY .



: chapter Ssacribes ‘some of the battle probleme the beach-
‘head, . Three Jets from the Boxer were allowed a reconnaissance run, ae
+ eves the beach {p. 227). : Finally the President authorixed:an hour's air
cover from the Boxer, but the thme was fouled up-and the Brigade B-2h'e |



