# 104-10100-10228

## Page 1

09349

104-10100-10228

isido denses misintas in in 4374057835199053

t5509

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

0916:

R.

I. TRAUBIEN

OCI

7454

17.900 1

BOOK MESSAGE AS BLON

CLASSIF ED MESSAGE

BIG BRT,

PAGE T. OF 7

21163

ROUTING

4

5

rolü

11.:: :

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CA?

KATINK.

, F1/D 4, FI/INT 2, IN, AF 4, EE 4, WE

in 4e, i,

• 4, DO/1 2, COS, HR/OPS, RF, VR

1470

CITE DIR

HANB

BEIR TEHR

BBID PARI CAIR ACCA

TUNI

BOUT

FRAN

FLOB

GIVA

BAGU

BANG

LIBB MORE ANNA ALGI

HELB

LOND VIEN DHAH KHAR DIAX

HADR ATHE JIDD LOP

NUAX ANKA LAHI

fury

BING

NADO BAGH XBID TiLL LUAL

WAH I ADDI

JORLD BRIBYS (HOPORN IN FLANTS)

FEBAND

76391

MANI

VITH

OKIE

BUEN

MEXI

QUIT

RIOD

1. THE MONTHANX SEA LOUTE NAVAL CONTOY: NAVAL ELINENTS CONBISTED

OM 100 MIY LONO BUNGA S- CLASS TONFIDA, ATTACI SURRARIARS, A MATAI

XANAZ, TRO OCTAN MASCTE TUCS, THO TLOATINO MORTONORA, ATD:TRO NEV

¡МАВПУ ТАКИ ТИ

MATATION SHIPE. MAtALE 000:.9: .1.00

''8i LINITED IAC IOONSC SUYDOST FOR INDONASIAS POLICINE;

(NOB:888 18 804187 BLOC NOR COMMUNIST CURA 18 LIBLY TO PROVIN

BIGHIFICANT OR SIPECTIVE ECONOMIC AID FOR INDOMSBIA IN BOLTING

PROBLINS APT TO ARISE FROM ITS SEVERANCE ON ECONONIC ENLATIONS VITH

MALATBIA. TITY NAT, HOWEVER, OTTER SOME BOUTONIC ASSISTANCE AS A

POLITICAL GESTURE. I/

lop

3. IMPACT OF GRAIN STORTAGES IN UBER: MOBOON IS TATENS SUSPE TO

LISEEN ITS XITECT ON THS SOONONI AND BRASBUKR DIR POPMLATION THAT

COORDINATINE

iLERI

ACUATINO CURIOSE

ANG BET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN IME ISSUING DEFICE IS PRONIBIBED

---

## Page 2

ORIG':

1..

CINDEX

C. NO INDEX

": FILE IN ES FILE DO.

88€

Milo:

LEERRES

ROUTINE

10

INFO

CITE DIR 76391

TRASONS AIR MALIA DANTA TO ATOID LIVE PAILURES IN TEX TUSTINA: AN

FNUURUALLY LABOR TARZA CAMRAION IN SUPPORE DE LHUMSRCINTOS PRAN YOR

DOING "CHARUNO DANIANTS" MARULE INTERIVE DES OR CHANICAL

MINTUITI AND INRIOAIION IS JADER NAT. COASRIVARION HRABBINS

BATE IN AMPERRRO, AND TAS TONNA CORAIIES IRAGNE IR TO ELAND

STAHIS AND MATHOUSES.

A, HURRICANE FLORA BATIBIS CUBA: ALTROUGH DAMAGI ASSISBMINTE

AIR STILL TITATIVI, AGRICUUTURB AND TRANSPONTATION APPANENTLY

BUTTERLD FAR LOTS THAN INDUSTRY AND THE MILITARY.

S. CHINEE OVERTURES TO JAPAN: MAR OVIR A YEAR PEIPING HAB

ERRA ACTIVELY BIPLORING TIB POBBIBJTTIES FOR EXPANDED NON-BLOC TRADE,

AND ITS LATIET OVIATULS TO UNUTICIAL BUT INPLUSNTIAL JAPANESI

VISITORS NAY BE PART OF THIS ITPORT, PROPOSALS FOR INCHEANNO TRADE

HAVE BLEN ACCOMPANIED BY ESTINSIVI PUBLICITY FOR HOVEB TO IMPROVI

ITZATIONS ACROBS THE BOARD. HONKVIR, THE LILITED POTENTIAL OF TAL

CHINA MABST MATES IT BLIKELY THAT TRADE VITA PRIPING MILL NBMAIN A

NECLIGIBLE SHARE OF JAPAN'S TOTAL TRADE.

6. TINNA DE BESTIRN DIPLONITS ON CONDUNIST CHINA: (MANY

DISCHIER A COUNTHS LECOVERINO VIII SLONLY TROM GRATE LOCIONIC PROBLE

RELEASING

: ROTNENTICATINA

DEFICIE

CER CHOCICH MY OTHER SPAN TME ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED

Сосу ма

---

## Page 3

ORIS:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGES

PAGE 3 OF 7

82-63

ROUTING

T.VOINDEX

LE FILE IN CS FILE NO.

F:ON: DIRECTOR

: 3N6

DEFERRIS

POLTiNE

iNFO

-д-

CITE DiR 76391

V8ОВІ ТЕОРІІ «ЗНАІН ЇХ А ВАТІ ОЛ "КВІСКО АРАТНУ" ПАЗРІТІ ІНСЕВЗЛУТ

POLITICAL INDOCTRINATICH, AND VRORE LRADERS VILL PROBAELY ERCONS MONE

NIGID. // (01807)

7. CONTINUED KUMORS OR XININKIT TOLD CORRUNIST NESTING: MUNNARAS

KHNVUNCIKY BAS NOT ENTH IN HE CAPITAL BINCE IN РІЖИВЕВ, AN ІВ

ПРОКТІ ТО HAVI ВКИ ПАКИ ЇХ ТЛЇТА, ИНКНА Х ОПТІН МИТТЯ ПОЛКІСН

GUESTS. MOBOON HAS NOT STATID A PORITION ON CALLA BY TONSIGH COLLUMIST

PANTIZE FOR A NETTING, BUT IS MAXING CLIAR THAT ANY MISTINO VILE ME TO

COMBIN TiL CHINES, NOT TO TRY TO FIND A MAY TO LIVE WITH THEM.

B. SONIST CHALLENGE TO MISTRUN ACCISS RIGHTS IN BARLIN: INTER

FINIACE VITE US AND BRITISH CONVOYS ON THE BIHLIN AUTOBAHN APPYATS TO

ER AIMED AT DRATINO TEL MESTINA PONERS INTO NSCOTIATIONS ON BOXI

NOCI88 PROCIDUNES AND TIL BROADER QUESTION ON THI STATUS ON MINITIO

ТОРСІЯ ІН ПІВТ АКТІН. МОВООЇ РИВВИНАНЦІ ІНТУНОВ ТО КАГАТЛІН СТОКУ

CONTROL OVIE THRSE HARATSAGATE IN ONER TO AVOID IRHXPARAILE DANCIE

TO MER DATINTE ATMOSPERAS. IT APPRAAS, HONEYXR, TO ER OPERATINO ON TEX

ASSO710N THAT US AND UX ALSO HATE AN INTEREST IN PRSBNIVINO THIS

ATUORTURUR AND THAT THIS ATTOIDS IT GERATIR LATITUDE TOR MANLUVERS TO

DRAN DEN MEBT INTO A INTU SOUND OF SANLIN TALKE.

18B GBBI

REPRODUCTION BY OTMER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO.

---

## Page 4

•OR:G

UNTI

EX?

CAi:

!.:

IN "NO. DIRECTOR

CENFO

INTO :

INS INDE

LAST ELEVENOU

sainting dis

I GEFERE!"

ROUTIN

tit"

11a70

CITE DIR 7639/

ESTRICT ALCARTA AND MOROCCO IS LALILY TO CONTINUS AT MAY SURI SUNST TO

MIY POINTE PENDITO NEGOTIATIONS, TALKS DO PAR HAVE INEN UNSTOCESArL.

BETTER CONSKINNIT, HOTEVER, BITES TO MATE AN ALL-OUT MAR, ADD METTERE

MALLS NAS SIS ISGBOGACAS TO TAGS ONS, MA MOROCCAN ARTI, NOURIZE, IB

BATEÃR ORGANIZED, TRAINED AND ROUIPPED TRAVE TIS ALCARIARS, ALTIDUDU THI

LATTER HAVE NEATLY TVICT AS MANY MEN UNER ARES. MINTIER ON NOT IN LODOI

FION IB TRACIND SOON, THI SUBPICION MITE WHICH LACE COVERINNT LSCARDS THI

ONTA VILL BB DEXPENED, AND RACH IS LIKELY TO LOOK FOR OPPORTUNITIES TO

TICOULAT SUBVBRSION dU DISSINONE IY THE OTH.R'S TARITORY.

10.

BOMALL REPUBLIC. 'ÍSONALL CITICIALS SAY TIST HAVE OBTAIND AR

OUTER OF MUÀ LEN. 'ON TORTH OF MILITARY ASSISTANCE FROM THE USER. VESTERN

BIZIPORAN COUNTRIES MINA VILL EFCONSIDER. AND VERY POSSIBLY VITHDRAN, THEIR

PLANS TO AID THE SOMALI ARMY. HORD OF THIS DEYILOPHSHI CONSO AT A IIMA

THEN BONAL: RELATiONS WITH ETHIOPIA ARE ACAIN DETERiORATING AS A FISULT

OR KEY ENCIDEHTS ESTUKEN SOMALIS IN ETHIOPIA'S OGADEN REGION AND THE

ITHIOPIAN AUTHOR/TIBS. À BORDER CLASR OCCURRED ON 11 AND 12 OCTOBER,

FOLLONED BY BIOTINO IN TUS SONALI CAPITAL./!

11, CONCO: PUNITA PARLLAMINT DISMISSED, THE MADONLA CABINET HAS

COORDINATINE GFE

1394.

330335

OREBRORLATON OTHER CLEAN THRAS

CESARCHIATED.

---

## Page 5

SENDE

B C BET

..*.

Vact 5 gi?

1*-7

76311

"COME TIL FOCUS FOR WIIHAPIRAD DISSATISPACTION VITH CORRUPT, INITPICIINT

ADHIXISTRATION AND CHRONIC ECONONIC DIFFICULTIES. CONGO LABOR

OBGANIZATIONS IN NOVES BSCALLINE THR BOLS SUCH CROUPS PLAYED IN

OVERTHRONINE, TIL DONGO : BRAZZA'LLLI; GOVXANMENT TAO MONTHS AGO, ART

CALLING FOR THE ESTABLISHNETT OF A GUVIRNAENT OF "PULLIC SAFETY"

COMFOBID OF "FONIS: AND REMPONS)ELE MEN " THINS ETIDENTLY IS SOLK

TAKLIN IN THE CENARINENI THAT ADOULA 1S NOT TOUCF ENOUCH TO DEAL WITH

THS SITUATION, AND TALER ARE RIFORTS THAT SOKE OF HIS CABINET COLLLAGULE

HAT TO TAKE OVER FRON HIS ADRIA LEFT REN YOUX THIS WESK TO HSTURN

TO TES COTTO TEA I iUTE. I I

12 SOUTH TIBTRAN: FITAR DIRM EBCIER CONTYNUES TO TAKE

IXPEESSIVE MEASURES AGAINST POTANTIAL OPTONENTE. THERE ARE ALSO

FURTHER SIGUS THAT TIE REGIME IS PILAFHINE TO FACE A LONG PERIOD OF

STRAINID ATLATIONS WITH IRE US. "OINT US V'ETHANBAE COUNTERINSUNACY

OFFRATIONE HONSVRE ARE CONTINTINÜ MI TIDIT SERIOUS INTERRUPTION. I/

LS, ITALiAN POLITICAL !: TUAT: ON ON EVE UF SOCIALIST CONGREES: THI

DOCLALIST PASTY SOIRESS OF 15-21 ACTOBRA VILL. PROBABLY AUTHORIZE PARTY

CHIES NINNI TO NACOTIATE MITH THE CHRISTIAN DELOCRATS TOR DI HACT SOCIALIST

PANTICIPATION IN A HEY CENTER LEPT GOVERNNIHT. TUS OBSTACIES TO THE

121001101

1.3.8 41208

RitA

MAN THE K

---

## Page 6

ROUT. NE

INI)

CiTE DiR

76391

PORONITION ON BUCH A CONTENNETT, HOREVER, VILL IS PORNIDATES.

ALTIRUCE REMI'S AUTOMORIS PACTION BERRS LIKELY TO HAVE A

RUSORITY AT TIE COUNTARIO, DIMINION VITED TIE FACTION MAY DEVELOP

DURTNI КІПЛІ 'В ХИХОТІТІ ЛІТАВ ТЕТ ОНОНКА ОВ ТВ ТЕННВ FOR

COLLISORIFION MITH TIE OTTER PANTIE. NATIONAL ICONONIC PELICY IN

LINILY TO EX THE NOT CHITICAL IBSU.

14. AUSTATA: MARRATACHÁSING ACRIMONY BETVERY AUSTRIA•& TOO

MLJOR PALTILE.. TET SOCIALISTS AND THE PEOPLES PARTY--THELATIHS TO BALAT

UP THE COALITION VHICH HAS COVERNED THE COUNTRY SINCE 1945. A MSY

SOCIALIST COALITION VITH TER BHALL RIGITIST PAN -GERMAN LIBERAL PARTY

VOULD PROBABLY HE LESS STABLÜ THN TIL FEISENT GANEHNHINT AND TIGHT

BRING A ENVITAL OF THE SHARP POLITICAL ANIMOSITIRS WHICH IN THE PHR-TAR

IRA BIBILITO IN VIOLINCE ENTVIKN THE BOCIALISTS AND THIIR PRISENT

COALITION FAITNINS.

15. CANADA ERPARATIST AGTAT ON TN THE PREDOMINANTLY FRENCE-

SPLAXINO PROLYN'T OF QUIBBC CONTINUES TO GROT AND COULD FORCE A BABIC

CHANCE IN RUTBIC'S ECCRONIC AND POL: TICAL RELATIONSKIP WITH TEB TIDEBAL

COVRENMANI IN OTTANA.

ALISODA ONLY A AL MISORITY OF FISHCH-CANADIANS CONDONE TEZ MACINT

COCOS RATES 112E89

1.74

RECRBIES

ROLLEROM BY OTHER

HEN INS SSONS OFFICE IS

---

## Page 7

0*-.

EASILE VESTAGE

BECEE!

"..:."

1to5s :

1.e!9

17

iNfo

= 7x

CITE DIR

76391

VIOLENCE ON PARTICIPATI IN INT ON THE EXVERAL HOVINENTS EBIKING

TO SETAELI8I AN INDEPENDENT QUEBRC, MATY IMPORTANT I 'TILLECTUAL

AND POLITICAL LIADERS AER ON ESCORD AS MANTING A SUBBTANTIALLY

GIRATER DEGEIR OR AUTONONI AND IQUALITY THAN THEY VANT NOW IXIBTS

FOR CAMADA 8 SECOND LARTIST PROT iNCE.

Jaman tales

044 i s

Oscar.

CONCION ANON TA

---

