(104-10187-10079

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J
See i i RETURNTO CIA
. Background Use Only

i eee _ + Do Not Reproduce

~

DISPATCH

cs
Catef, WH Division

ints,
om N

of Station, Nexico City

MARKED FOR INCUUNG,

‘ONLY QUALIFIED DESK,
CAN ROSE INODLING.

micron

wont
LIB@TY Project Reneval
ACTON NOUR FERENCE

1. Project LIEMPTY axptres on 30 November 1964. Forwarded herevith and
under separate cover in split transmission is the Request for Reneval of
Project LISNPTY.

2. It ie requested that Project LIENPTY be reneved for the period
1 Deceaber 1964 through 30 Noveuber.1965 for the amount of $15,300, Of this
total, $27,675 should be alloted for FY 1965 and $17,625 for FY 1966,

os

pete ron Sty ried
Willard C, CURTIS

Attachment t
Left hand side b/y
Right hand side use “9 *

Distribution:
C/MaD w/att

io ial S0-6-7¥/]

(CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMGER

HAA=24650 : 29 October 1964
—easincapon oi
x 3 3 RE I | so-6-76/)

Du},


REQUEST FOR RENEWAL
PROJECT LIRMPTY

i
T. CURRENT OBJECTIVES AND RELATED PROJECT ACCOMPLISHMENTS.

A, The oversll objective-of-the LIBPTY project activity 1s to collect
operational information on the LINERICK installation and personnel, as welk
as related targets of opportunity, through stationary and mobile photo- i: :
graphic and physical surveillance coverage. Corollary objectives which are i
to be fulfilled through the use of the LIEMPTY installations and personnel

are as follows: -

1) To provide operational information pertaining to the dsily activities
end movements of LIMERICK personnel, particularly those individuals of
intelligence interest, as well aa information on the LIMERICK physical

facilities and visitors to the premises,

2) To collect operational information pertaining to other targets of
opportunity, other official Installations, and persons of intelligence

interest operating in Mexico,

3) To provide operational support and other protective services to Station
Personnel and operations as may be deemed necessary. .

B, The above objectives are to be fulfilled through the use of vhe LIMITED,
LILYRIC, and LICALLA fixed installations, the LIEVIRAP mobile unit, and the
services of ‘contract @gents Raymond H. GERENDE and Oliver 0, SCANTLINO. These
objectives are in consonance with and represent partial fulfillment of the
following sections of the current Related Mission Directive as approved for

Mexico City Station?

Priority A, Section 1, Subsection @
Priority A, Section 2, Subsection ¢

C, Throughout the period under review, Project LIEWPTY continued to contribute
directly and significantly to the fulfillment of Station and Headquarters’
requests and requirenents for coverage of various targets falling within the
framework of the above cited objectives and the Related Mission Directive.
Specific examples of LIEMPTY progress, accomplishments and contributions by
each project component are as follows:

1) Laorep i
,
Throughout the reporting period, until operational activity was terainated :
: , and the photographic equipment evacuated from the LIMITED basehouse on
: 26 Septender 1964 (because of security implications steuming from the
release of the Warren Commission report, see Section II, CHANGES), ‘he
: LIMITED installation provided datly photographie coverage and physical
: surveillance of the main gate of LINERICK installation during the afternoon
and early evening hours. ‘The Station considers the LINITED photographic

ah-l-ham th -246 50


24

2)

3)

4)

coverage an essential and reliable tool for folloving the datly activities
of the target personnel ani the arrival ani departure of visitors, soue of
vbom have been PEFRINGrs, In addition, the LINITED installation provided
a fixed radio dispatch base for the LIEMERACS team, Because of the
extremely tight, security. weasures instituted by the local security forces
in the imediate vicinity of the LIMERICK installation, stakeouts by the
[antlaterat’ [surveillance team are precluded. However, with LIMITED
Personnel dispatching the team frou positions removed frou the protective
security ring, onto targets departing the installation, surveijlance
coverage is made posd ble.

BAA hd

‘The LILYRIC installation also provided photographic end fixed visual gu~
veillance of the front of the LIMERICK installation throughout the period
under review, during the morning and early afternoon hours. This photo-
graphic coverage and the written logs of the movement of LIMERICK
personnel prepared by LILYRIC personnel, couplowents the LIMITED coverage
Used by the Station in its KUDESK operations against the LIMERICK target
end has been Judged to be of equal quality ani value to the LINITED

coverage.

LICALLA

The LICALLA installation continued to provide coverage of the back of
-the LIMERICK installation, the garden, and patio area vhere many of the
Personnel and their faxilies congregate, This coverage gives the Station
its real insight into the LIMERICK target ani provides « large part of the
information-on which the Station bases its identification of LIMERICK
staffers, their rank ‘afi positions, the staffing estimates, and the
intelligence connections. of the various officers. In addition some
inforwation cf LAVRTOLS interest 1a provided by LICALLA (eee paragraph 2,
section f of HNMA-24235 dated 2 Septeaber 1964 for further details).

LIENTRAR :

A greatly increased use of the LIENTRAP unit was evidenced throughout:
the period under review. This asset was employed extensively for photo~
graphic coverage of PCN Heaiquarters, the PCN Vouen's Congreas, the hones
of PCM weubers and the residences of foreign Comuntst exiles in Mexico.
Much of this coverage vas in support of past or planned recruitment
atteapte ‘and Wes néeded to. provide identifications of other local or
visiting Commnists. Specifically LIENTRAP coverage assisted in the
identification and the verification of the address and contacts of

o2 oH B-1, prior to the Station's successful recruituent of this high-

PCM member, The section primarily responsible for the Station's
anti-PCM activity has classified the LISNTRAP coverage as a most

“valuable” part of their effort,

: ge

Sup.


6), glswer 0, Scant

During the period 1 December 1963 through 30 August 1964, long-term Station
asset, Oliver 0, SCANTLING (ps) continued as the cutout to the LINITED :
Daschouse, and made his regular contribution as the alternate contact of
LICASA-2 in this sensitive ‘LAURICLE operation, SCANTLING also performed
mumerous pretext investigations, serviced accommodation addresses, and
prepared formal casing reports. Of particular significance were ~
“oz. -SCANTLINO's regular checks of the accomodation address used in the
*-genaitive | ULSE operation, the thorough investigation of a former
Of interest to KUDARK, and detailed casings of the Chinese

-Ol]
fee st Fair. (See also Section VI, PLANS, for SCANTLING's future

“operational asstgnment).

7) Raymond Hy GERENDE_

During the period under review, GERENDE continued in his assignment as
the Station cutout to the LILYRIC and LICALLA basehouses, the LIENTRAP
unit and as the processor of the raw photographic take, and with the
dscistence of LIEPTY-10, continued to provide and service the majority
of the accommodation addrésses used by the Station, The contributions
wade princtpally. by GERENDS (and to a limited extent by SCANTLING) to the
seneitive AMROD operation can accurately be described as unique and
essential to the success of that operation, Although thie activity is
necessarily a Headquartera directed effort, the local contributions of
QERENDE and SCANTLINO are integral ingredients of that operation,

D. ‘It will ba noted froa.the above samples of LIEMPTY contributions to the

Station's progress tovards fulfillment of the pertinent sections of the
Related Misaion Directive, ‘that notwithstanding their demonstrable value
and iuportance, these contributions actually represent only a portion of
the activity directed tovards the fulfilinent of each objective. Therefore,
eny precise measureuent of project progress 18 precluded, However, based
on the performance end overall contributions of the LIEMPTY project during
the past project year, the. Station, concludes that this project 1s essential
to the fulfillment of the Related Mission Directive and mst be continued

during the forthcouing project year.

ele |



+ \ : i

Ti, CHANORS

‘A) On 2% Saptembor 1964, the Station vas informed by Headquarters that a
LIENFTY project photograph vhich was one of several supplied to the Warren
Commission in November 1963, would be published in that Commission's formal
overt report. Since LIMERICK officials vould undoubtedly be able to
recognize the individual in the photographs as a visitor to their
installation and with a:view tovards the attendant possible security probleas,
the LDUTED, LILYRIC, ani LICALLA operations wore suspended on 26 and 27
September and . all photographic and other compromising equipment was evacuated

specifically on:how to cope with any possible inquiries from

Government officials ar LINGRICK inspire or prompted nevanen, Complete
odergency soumnications oretoat yere arranged for all basehouse personnel,
Raymond Hf, GERENDE and Ciiver G. SCANTLING, Upon receipt by the Station of a
copy of the photograph, 1t wae deteratned that the LIMITED basehouse had
provided the photograph tn question,. This consideration, Linked with further
analysis of the limttations upon any counteractions available to LIMERICK
officials, allowed the Station to re-activate the LILYRIC and LICALLA bases
on a phased basie in early October 1964, However, because LIMITED was the
originator of the to-be-published photograph and due to the age and deterio~
rated condition of the LDWTED property (owned by KUBARK), Station Mexico
City did not reactivate LIMITED and presented to Headquarters a plan for the

denclition of the present LINITED structure with recommendations for the
construction of.a new building complex. (See MEXI 1307 dated 20 October 1964

for additional details).

B) In scconiance with paragraph 2 of HMW-12297 dated 28 January 196s, tHe
value and productivity of all assets under Project LIEMPTY vas closely
revieved against the necessary security and effictency requirements, It vas
eterained that LIENPTY-12 ani LIENPTY-8 could be terainated without causing

intolerable gaps in operational ora. or an unacceptable decrease in
efficiency, Both LIENPTY-12 and -8 were terminated on 30 June 19645

at the same time, in keeping with the ODYOKE economy program, a further effort
was made to reduce the costs of this project by placing LIB TY- 19 on an

hourly rate for work performed for the Station.

On 30 September 196%, the fiald Case Officer responsibility for Project

_ LIS@TY was transferred from Jeremy L. NIARCOS to Cornelius L, PSUVION;
however, the analysis of the finished take from the photographic basehouses

continues to be performed by Robert 5B, RIGGS,

c)

III, EFFECTIVENSSS .

The effectiveness of the LISPTY project mist he judged on the basis of the
reliable datly coverage provided rapidly and securely for the Station and

interdsted Headquarters’ components on the LIMERICK installation; the rapid
mobile coverage provided regularly by LIENTRAP; and the support to these and
other operations provided by Raymond H, GERENDE and Oliver @. SCANTLINO.
(See Section I, Subsection C for specific examples of this offectivene:

=D



In the opinion of Station officers tho use the LIS@TY photographic product or
receive LIEWTY operational support, this project has responded most satisfactorily
to the needs and requirsaents, a

FRORLBS

A) Ths only eajor cperational/secarity problems which confronted project LISMPTY
during the period under review were the security taplications stemming frog the
release of the overt Warren'Cousiseion report, (See paragraph II, Section A).
The precise damage. occasioned locally by the report, cannot be measured until
the mid-Novenber release of the report annex containing the actual LIMITED
photograph. -During-the interim period, the emergency contact systems are
being maintained in readiness, the cover storiss of all personne) involved
have been: reviewed: and ‘strengthened, and ro undue concern has been displayed
‘by any of the project personnel. Potential Station counterweasures to the
pasetble LDGRICK reaction to the publication of the subject photograph were

outlined in NEXI-1018 dated’ 25 Septenber 1964,

B) No unusual personnel probleus have arisen and the overall performance of all
agents comected with this project bas been satisfactory.

V. LIAISON HD INTERAGENGY COORDINATION

Not. applicable,
PLANS.

A) he future of the LDGTED basebouse, property and personnel vill be determined
within the near future. (See Section 2, subsection a).Station bas acquired
enother epartment.on a temporary dasis in the LILYRIC complex to replace the
loss of LIMITED coverage and it will be activated after the acquisition and

clearence of basebouse keepers.

B) Wo basic changes are contemplated in either the administration or operation
of the LICALLA or LILYRIC bases, Station-will again initiate motion picture
* coverage of selected LIMERICK personnel engaged in conversation in the
garden area in an atteupt to obtain film which will lend itself to lipreading

by Headquarters’ specialists.

C) The Station plans to maintain the increased level of LIENTRAP operational
activity, with this asset being targetted in the near future against the
Partido Populer Socialista (PPS) in support of the Station's new PPS

penetration program,

D) Effective on 1 September-196%, Raycond H. GEHENDE assumed the cutout role
and responsibility for the LIMITSD basehouss in addition to his other
operational duties outlined in Section I, . No other basic operational or

administrative changes are planned for OERENDE for the ensuing period.

B) The recoval of Oliver 0, SCANTLIN as the cutout to the LIMITAD basehouse
was_a result of the recent death of his wife, his pending trip beg Oe pan es“.
OF the Station's desire to
|. GERENDE, After SCANILING's



vit,

»)

return from Japan, he vill assume operational duties and responsibilities in
an activity not connected.vith Project LIEMPTY. ‘Therefore, salary and
operational expenses for SCANTLING are programmed for six months only.

optiaun oie:

Other tHith Presented above, Kaxico City Station plans no other significant
project chang ince it is felt that this project is now operating at its
Justification for the retention of three basehouses was

presented in detail in-HMA-23343 (vhich is available at Headquarters),
Efforts will be eontimed, hovever, to refine and better utilize the existing -

Project organization and assets.
Goarg (All figures are dollars, U. 3.)

Ae Past Project Year - Station records indicate that Project LIENPTY
$35,952.78 during the period 1 ‘Deceuber 1963 through 30 Segteuber 1964,
Approximately $9,000 will be expended during the remainder of the present
project year, It 18 estimated that approximately 20 hours of case officer
time per week is necessary to satisfectorily fulfill the operational,
edainistrative and analytical requirements of this project. Bi-weekly
accoutings with receipts and/or certifications are submitted by Raymond H.
GERENDE and Oliver Q, SCANTLDNW to the Station Finance Officer, via the
case officer for all Project LIEMPTY expenditures,

B) Ensuing Project Year - Project LIEMPTY was programed for $60,000 for the

forthcoming project years Due to the Station's econoay measures, hovever,
only $45,300 19 requested for the ensuing year. Of this amount, 27,673 * will
‘be expended in FY 1965 and £17,625 in FY 1966, A detailed breakdown of

project expenditures follows:
Salaries (including Christaas bors)

Raynond H, OSRENDE \
Ghivar o. SCANTLING for 6 months oe
(photo Lab) ———————
(photo lab)assistant)
oer 3 (LIMITED basehouse keeper)
LIEMPTY-7 (LIMITED assiatant)
LIEPTY28

LIEMPTY-9 (LICALLA basehouse xeeper)
LIEMPIY-10 (LIENTRAP operator)

: LIEMPTY-11 (LIENTRAP assistant)
LIEMPTY-12
LIEMPTY-13 (LILYRIC basehouse keeper)
LIEMPTY-14 os assistant)

" DIEMPrY-19 (Typist)
‘Temporary basehouse keeper
LIEMPTY-24 (LICATLA assistant)

FY 65 : FY 66

1,100, |
3,700.7
salary
Terminated 1 July 196%
3,600
4,400
2,500
Torminated 1 July 1964
2,000
2,000
2,000
2,000

Ba Bare F,tos

2s


wha
-T-
\
FY 65 FY 66
Yehisle Maintenance :
MV 2606, 2284, 2279 000 :
saat 000,150 es)
Beal Extate (rent, utilities)
LIETrep $3,300 : :
LILyRtc 1,500 :
LICALLA 1,600 :
Photo lab 200,
F600 $5,050 750
Buaipment,
Maintenance and replacement of $ 506
photo equipment; film purchase
F506 35 vas
Operational Expense Pt $ Bo
PO Box rental; vehicle rent:
veo or ee
pemees scnasees 0 ees
‘TOTAL. $45,300 #27,675 427,625

(OERENDE's Christmas boms, the temporary baschouse keepers’ salaries, and the
photo lab rent, are included in Project LIEMPTY for the first time).

VII. EMERORNCY CONDITIONS

Emergency commmication plans for Oliver 0, SCANTLINO and Raymond H. GERENDE
are on file in the Station and at Headquarters (See HMNA-15962 and BMA-15981 of
23 Novenber 1960), In early 1964, a review was hold for the active agents in
this’ project of their recontact instructions and verbal recognition signals, In
addition the emergency contact plans for the LIMITED, LILYRIC and LICALLA base-
house-keepers were expanded and refined during the "crisis" cutlined in para-
graph II, Section A.

wt bl by

Glt 1-1 nnd ~ “4K es TOF sO-6 7,
