# 104-10428-10018

## Page 1

1104-10428-10018

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Paulad

CI 059-77

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Philip F. Fendig

Special Assistant to the Deputy Director

for Operations for External Oversight

FROM

:

George T. Kalaris

Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

SUBJECT

:

Damage Assessment of Documents Passed to

the House Select Committee on Intelligence

(Pike Committee)

REFERENCE : Your Memorandum of 29 November 1976

1. Of the five documents attached to reference memoran-

dum, two do not concern CI Staff (see Tab A). The remaining

three documents (see Tab B) are as follows:

a .

OIG Survey of the Office of Security, Annex II,

Project SGLATERAL/GLINGUAL, 22 September 1975.

b.

Memorandum for Mi. Colby, dated L1 May 1973;

subject: Potential rlap Activities.

This memorandum

is an

attachment to a Memorandum for Mr. John Dempsey,

dated 23

November 1976; subject: Damage Assessment

on Material Passed to HSC.

List of HSC [sic - CIA] Material Reviewed at

Headquarters (undated).

2. None of these documents contains information per-

taining to presently active CI Staff operations; however,

with the exception of the mail intercept program covered in

detail by the Rockefeller Commission in June 1975 and by the

Senate Select Committee in April 1976, there are references

, and Its

foreign contacts,

embarrassment to this Agency, into the hands of foreign

as well as playing

intelligence services and communist parties, thus weakening

further the effectiveness of the Agency's. clandestine service.

Specific comments are contained in a Damage Assessment Report

attached to each of the three documents under Tab B.

: 008885

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Because representatives of the House Select

Committee were apparently allowed unrestricted as well

as unsupervised access to CIA material here in Head-

quarters, and because a great quantity of information,

not all suitably sanitized, was turned over to the House

Select Committee, it must be assumed that such material

once out of the Agency's control has been compromised.

There is no

way of knowing how many unauthorized persons

had access to CiA material, how many copies were made oi

this material, how many or who received such material, etc.

The subsequent publication by the Village Voice on the

16th and 23rd of February 1976 of the first two sections

of the "Pike Committee Report" indicates that security

within the House Select Committee left something to be

desired.

George T. Kalaris

Attachments:

As stated

DDO/CI/OG/Russell Holmes/x1253/pm

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee w/atts

C/CI w/o/atts

CI/OG/Holmes

(25 Jan 77)

2 .

---

## Page 3

13-00000

29 November 1976

MEMORÄNDUM FOR:

FROM

SUBJECT

Chiefs of All Divisions and Certain Staffs

Philip F. Tendid

Special. Assistant to the Deputy Director

of Operations for External Oversight

:

Damage Assessment of Documents Passed to

the House Select Committee on

Intelligence

1.

The DDCI has approved the creation of an Agency-

wide task force to conduct a damage assessment of classi-

fied

documents and/or information

which was furnished to

the now defunct House Select Committee on Intelligence (HSC).

A copy of the Director of Security's memo, approved by the

DDCI, outlining the rationale for the damage assessment is

attached (Att. A).

SA/DO/0 and CI Staff represented the Directorate

of Operation on the task force which is chaired by the

Office of Security.

The procedure decided upon was

to

have the Review Staff Registry make copies for each

Directorate of the documents furnished to the HSC.

SA/DO/0

received the DO copies and has reviewed them and designated

responsibility for the damage assessment to appropriate DO

components for each document.

Addressees will be required

to complete a damage assessment report and furnish it to

SA/DO/0 for transmittal to the task force. Damage assess-

ment reports are required only on those documents which

the component

determines have caused damage to current,

on-going activities or personnel.

3. We have been instructed for the purpose of this

exercise, to consider every document provided to the HSC

as compromised and to examine each document primarily in

terms of damage to "current Agency sources and/or current

Agency projects

or operations.

The Damage Assessment

Report will consist of four parts:

a. Identifying data on the document;

b. A general or summary statement relative to the

problems and damage resulting from the compromise of

the document;

nates by pare damage, and

C .

Specific identification of the damaging state-

ments by page, paragraph and line - indicating the

SECRET

-

E2 IMPDET

CL. BY 012860

VrV

---

## Page 4

13-00000

d.

Action planned or taken to mitigate the damage

caused by the compromise of the document.

A suggested format for the Damage Assessment Report is

attached (Att. B).

4. In reviewing the documents provided by the Review

Staff Registry, SA/DO/O eliminated those of prinary concern

to other Directorates; however, some documents originated

by other Directorates which appeared to have a bearing on

Do activities or personnel were assigned for assessment to

an appropriate Do component.

Clearly, if the Do component

receiving a non-DO document does not consider it damaging

to its activities or personnel, it may be disregarded.

5. Some documents cut across component lines - the

receiving component should coordinate the Damage Assess-

ment Report. with other concerned components.

6. In some instances, we have only a list of docu-

ments provided to the HSC which they were to read in the

building.

The component may need to locate the document

in order to prepare a damage repors is appropriate.

subject suggests that

such

7. If a component receives a document which it

believes is the primary responsibility of another compo:

nent, please return it to SA/DO/0 indicating (if known)

the component which should be tasked with the damage

assessment.

8.

Each addressee is requested to designate an

officer to serve as a focal point for this activity in

their component.

The designated officer should contact

Mr. Shepanek, ext. 1542, on my staff, as soon as possible,

to arrange for the transfer of documents

and to resolve

any questions or problems.concerning the damage assessment.

9. The Damage Assessment Reports and a memo from the

component listing

documents reviewed but not requiring

Damage Assessment

Reports is due in SA/DO/0 by COB

10 January 1977:

4.4

Philip F.

Fendig

03

35%

wall

Atts

• 0/SA/DO/O:NAShepanek: kaw

(1542)

SEGRETI

---

## Page 5

13-00000

"'3'

Distribution

Orig &

1

DIO

C/PCS

].

]

C/EA

C/EUR

C/LA

C/NE

C/AF

C/ SE

1

C/ FR

C/CI

C/CC

1

1

-

C/CA (SOG)

- C/DIVD

- C/DCD

2

-SA/DO/0

w/att.

+ 1

".

SEGRET

---

