# 104-10308-10156

## Page 1

1704-10308-10156

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

:

SECRET

Job #

File #

Volumes:

Dates:

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

65-86/28

19-120-18

2

Jan 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionario

(Revolutionary Recovery Movement)

1. Description:

Vo1. I(marked Part IV) concerns reports from the MRR in Cuba

in 1962 and particularly with the roll-up of the MRR Executive in Ma)

and June 1962. Vol. II (marked Part V) has no additional informatior

on this subject.

2. Findings:

UFGA 4948, 18 July 1962: Report No. AA 134:

me Juan FALCON lamar

in Cuba was interviewed Ta caran alleged Natiodal Staton to Jut 1e MR

He said he planned the assassination of Carlos Rafael RODRIGUEZ. He also

alked about a plot to assassinate Raul CASTRO on 26 July 61

attributed to the CIA. He also mentioned the assassination of Fidel at the

same time.

He claimed that the plot against Raul was invented by the CIA,

and that the CIA provided financial support to MRR activities.

WAVE 5879 (IN 30751) 18 July 1962:

WAVE advised that presentation by FALCON appeared previously

taped and poorly rehearsed. Cable is slugged AMBRONC-5 complex.

AMBRONC-5

was Agency asset executed by the Cuban Government.

Memo to Chief, Task Force W from OOS, JMWAVE, 16 Aug 1962

The Op That Failed/MRR

Concerns interview 14 Aug 62 of Victor MARTINEZ Zambrano, a former

hot-shot activist of the MRR in Havana who was an asylee in the Argentine

and Brazilian Embassies and left Cuba. In Sept 61 he organized the

operation which failed, the plan to assassinate Carlos Rafael RODRIGUEZ.

Reportedly one of the persons involved pulled the pin of the hand grenade

prematurely, it went off, one man was killed.

The subject, MARTINEZ, escaped, went into hiding, and later came to the

U.S.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

:::

Attachments:

Researcher:

>

- 2 -

LAD/JFK Task Force

Chris Hopkins

---

