Wie Ee

Mug LOSS

“COS MERGE aR tenes

TORITY RYU N i
TINE

MANL BTM WEIN PAHT CAI®
MEXZ GEVA ARRA KAHL PRET
ROME ARMA AGE MELA OKIE PRAM LOND VIEN
| | BAGH RED TLL | | RIOD EMGG SJAN ADDI

‘wmome XH BLANTS. REMAINING INFO BRLBARABLE TO LIAIBON. )
: 1. BERLIN: THE COMMUNISTS VIEW AS “OFVICIAL” THE TALES! BETSEY
EAGT. ASD: WHET EERLIN NECGTIATORS OUCH ACHIEVED THE AG
GHRISTHAS: DRSSES AND CONSIDER THEM A ROOST To ERSCON’S "
“pROROGAR POR WEST: BERLIN. WILLY BRANDT, ON THE OTHER BAND, ‘Pasaans
Ral 88 OLY : PABCENICAL” AND AS-NO SETBACK YO HIS STATURE m ‘KEST
“ cabeaaais ‘POLITICS: i i
ae 18 FOGOSLAVIA: fav 1S APPAREYELY. WO LONG -DEED).Y eSVOLVED In
_ AnaLUNDTRATION oF YUGOSTAV ABPAIRS. HR HAS SXMIBITED., LACK OF

; , sie Pm RESPONSE 188
OFFICIALS RAVE: EXPRESSED CoRCRRN: RAT WAS vAcTTiER Mave oT

3. portn VIBTHAS: URAVY “BROMARARDA RMPUARTS ONTOS 4

" ANNITVERSAWY oe THB KATIORAL ¢HORT FOR THR LIORTAL tc oe PC LTKA



on (pene, THO)
SURSESTS | 2 GROWING COM IGICE IH -HAROL THAT INBURGRETS ney prsrarn
AND DWPROTE SHEYR Rostra near eee TS. BAGKING, oF Tax soUrd vuEr-

jar Im tame SOVIET-DOSTEATED AR DAVENED SRST 2 , ALB. -ENCHRAS IEC.

SOVEST 'S0-1-CLABS ‘BUBCHANEE WAS ANRIVED SY CUBAN. HATERD.AND THO
" OFMEGS ‘ARR: PROBABLY EN BOUTE. ; /
6. usar: EHRUSECHEV'S LONG-RANGE PROGRAM ‘Yor
THE soviar ‘CHBSTCAL TXBUSTRY. 12 TO: ES ACCONPATED BY
"yn O7MM. PARTS ‘OF THE @CONOH DUNINO TAH WI TH wa
CONSUHER SEEVICES, AID SOME HEAVY INDUSTRIAL PROXETTION jE TO OF
AVPRCTED, AND IT SEEMS LIKELY THAT THRRE GILL GE A SLewnG in THR
RATE. AT WHICH HILITARY. EXPENDITURES RAVE INCREASTD since! Lest
Moers sacer TRE BOZO GOVERRMET!'S VIARiLITY save
VLT OF STROSO VOTE Se COEPImEReR. it

aT Ok ALTER TS BAR TERT,

Sv RRs, ITE MOPPR ER to rime te eae tye



Br tier
(P8GB THERES) Ce

| SUPPORT OM ABR CONFIDENCE OTK ORO'S POSITION 18 PIRSER BECAUSE

? TRIS AXD Sacaces Gr THe Varz *R DEEBSURE O8 CHRISTIAN DEEOCE..
RIGHTWIFGBES WOT TO BRAK PARTY aS

7. CURA: TRE CASTRO REGIEE SEREB NET cH CULSTVATIRG APRIC 3

Coumral Es ‘AB: wAY oF LESSENIEG ITs TSOLATION FROM THE FREE, ‘oR AN
FMBASSY IN TANGANYIKA [HDICATES TaYs. ADDITION, CUBA was, DORIXG
THE RABT Manes, EXPANDED CONTACTS WITH HIN COUFTRIES SOUTH. OF TIE

- eaRUARA. TNE 19 ALO mABOH 10 SURPRCT Amacai Gomme To CUB cé i

a IN BLECTIONS OF 1955 aD 2959. wan opsicTiVE.-.

BOPLER'S RECENT VISIT, ECNN WAS 10 BOUND OUT. GERMAN RRACTION TO SUCK
BRITISN, INITIATIVES. // = ,
. 8. BRITIGR GUIANA. SAGAN AND [28 LISUTRRANTS, HAVE BERN ATTACKING

ine OFeteLe,

“ReaRQONC HON * oy



cama Br macomaaa ren parver*Freus * 70 BEVELOP =F maBaSTS THERE
THERE ABE BUILT IX LIBXTATIONS To c) erin THAT PRENCH-CHINESi
; TRABS CAN: GRO®, COMPLEMENTARY PRODUCTS ARE FEV. AND CREDIT PROBLENS

CONTINUE ‘TO LIMIT. PURCHASES BY Canwse wad sem PRIBARILY INTERESTED
in ‘BTA THING FRENCH TECERICAL SEILIS. .PARI8 INPEREST IN CUTNESE
TRADE AXD: KEPANDED CULTURAL CONTACTS WITH PRIPING HAVE STINCLATEN
SPECULATION. THAT SOME sont OF DIPLOMATIC EBCOGNITION 1S IK THY
OFFING, ‘TRIS IS STOUTLY DENIED AT ALL LEVELS Gy FRENCH GOVERN":

FPUILARD: FOR Gy GBCORD TIRE LF YOUR MONTES. FINLAND as
GOING. THROUGH A CABINET CRISIS BROUGHT O8 BY DiSAG! EX

RULING COALITION, OVER DOKESTIC LEGISLATION. .

copapivating 30+



(PAGE P1VR)
o: CIVIL BRRVANTS, HEADED BY ECONOMIST KEIO LEBTO, w2S |BEEH
APPOINTED TO SERVE URTIL THE PRESEST CONTROVERSY I8 REROLVED
ALTERGATIVE SOLUTIONS SKEH LIMITED TO AGRARLAR BINOEITY Goverennarr.
RECOKETITETION OF AGRARIAN-DOAIHATED COALITION OR AS A Last’ “RESORT.
GHREBAL RUBCTIONS, HATEVER THE OUTCOME, PRESINGET 1 pes ie
RELATIONS. MOSCOF CANE OUT AGAIN BURING HIS TRIP TO THE

i ARIA. “NB OONTROVERSAL, PORE: SNCWRITT.CHIEY MIM CHLHO-PLL, cOTROLS
THE PARTY APPARATUS, AND 18 MANY EVEMIBS ARB LIERLY TO TRY TO USK
THE 1EGIGLATIVE PROCESSES TO TRY TO WREST: POWER FROG EVM,  PRESIORNT
PAK STILL RACES EI, HOWEVER, AND. THEY ARD THEIR COHORTS WILL CONTISUE
TO MAKE THE. covEmamer’ 8 MAJOR DECISIONS. THE CABINET HEADED bY
CROR TU-SOR- APPEARS TO RAVE BERN CHOSEN W:TH A MIND TO BATARC ING
PACTIORAL AND SBCTIOWAT, INTERESTS AND FOR AN ABILITY TO CARRY OUT,
RATHER THAN PORMULATE PO!.ICY, WITH ELBCTIONS OVER, THE REGIME is

CODRUINZ TING
~ MENS TGATING

DrUracinu OFFICER
ara melee f wer inne

Com Na



AND THE JUSTICE, PASTY, OR A “RATIONAL , Coanarios, oF. ALL POLITICAL
GROUPS, [BRMAINS TO BE TREND, DESPITE THBBERP DIFYEERNCES, ra
~ aspocnarron BETWEEN ‘THE TWO, MAY PROVE VEASTBLE, FOR THE POLITICIANS

PRAR THAT. EXTENDING THE CRUSIS MUCH LUBGER WIGHT PROVOKE NILITAZY
YETRRVEBT ION. CONF) i

14. coxco*: pss ADCULA ZEGIHE'S POSITION RENAIKS PREcARioos
ITS EXTREME JEFTIST OPPONENTS JOINED IF & “COMMITTEE OF “ATIOAL
LIBERATI S hSdermun TO PLOT AGAYRET YT PROM THEIR BRAZZAVILLE EASE

A

WORA SCMBMAT CRIPPLED DY LEOPOLDVILIE'S EXPLOSION CF THEIR SCVIZT

RELATING OEFETEN



EVASION" OF RS -CoRGG



iraas BiG) |
HAVE GRCAPAURED TE BEY ROSD, SUNCTION OF LAE SAC, noscran, (Amb. aia v7
an Cananigry Wo SER quayh COURTENRDNES, aN: ‘TH .COSPINUING

