[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

|0192-10262|

es eey ; thoy
ae 7 : SECRET are an
: ‘ ‘ oe E oa OWHEN FILED IN) i Fea. €2
2 ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
a ie ace INSTR CTUNS,
i a, PRIOR TO iG SEiseafniasavuisl Hail
“| 1. Fill in Soct. 2. on back, Detach back

Tf file no. and title shown are not.
proper, insert proper file.na.. below
and forward docuzont to RID/AN.

flap and forward to RID.

2. Dostroy front cover sheet, unless it
rocords significant action taken or
comonts requiring preservation.

FROM:

THOTER FILE RO.

LLY

os

a

TRW REGISTRY

uf gon

os

Tr tn. Shor

MICRO MED.
aun 25 wed

120, SER.

gor Mt

3.
THUS fy Tied
%

ro

10.

Teme

ve

SG SUSPENDED
TE, HANDLING

NOTE: This Document VW
of the CS Reconss
Desired Handling ls Checked Above
nd the Docusant Returned to RID.

FICE NUMOER «PRINARY CODE?

SO- pao: F

vo

assteacr |

REQUEST

react |


SECRET

oi

LL June 1962
CK - O70

Chief, Task Force W
Chief of Station, JMHAVE GAC

Gyrosp/operat tonal -_--
Angel/Guiu, aks Marco’ Willian

ATTENTION REQUESTED: KUIUER : as : 3 ‘

Jun:

1, On 8 and 9 June 1962, Angel Luis Guiu Figueredo, aka "Mare
wlan A 12 S17, 916, aes t 2; bec 158, ammans Minas eddrese:
¢/o Toabel Zapata Ibarra de Gila (nie wife) AX i) NE 22nd Street, 1.2m
telephone -FR 3-9778, was interviewed. > | Ae = ban
nig

2. It is the intent of this dispatch to present: come mensure of
tha source's knowledgeability in order to assist in outside debriefing.
The source was-a captain in the rebel army from 1 January 1959.to 29
June 1960. During this period he wes assigned as an aide to Enrique
Qvuleki, the Minister of Communications, and the source represented,
moreorless, the military interests in this ministry. As a former
employee of the Cuban telephone company one of his missions vas to run
the telephone monitoring service. After leaving the army the source
was the chief of the military section of. the MRP, After Playa Giron,
during the sumer of 1961, source broke with Manolo Ray, the ‘HRP chief,

~ and. Reinol Gonzalez, the MRP coordinator, over ideological differences,

the source claiming that Ray was too far to the left. In this fractioning

of the MRP, the source pulled outthe entire'military section, and it

since has been operating as an independent group.

3. On 15 May 1961, the source entered the Italian Babassy as a
“guest” ana operated the group from within the Embassy. He claims close
contact with the Italian Ambassador, and later in the convereation
mentioned that the Ambassador brought the source's dog from Havana to
the source's wife in Miami. On 7 May-1962, the source left the Embassy,
went back to Havana,-and later in the month got on a Spanish ship which
tock him to Colombie.” From Colombia he came to the United States and
CAC.

Sp Seay i

Ow:

SECRET



CK O70 -2- D. Jun 62 7

4. ‘the reason the ecurce vent into the Ttalian Rebassy was that
. he was arrested by Ramiro Valdez and Manuel Pineiro on the charge of
having monitored telephone calls of Fidel Castro and other officials
of the Cuban Government. Source said'this was partially true, as the
: Operators at the monitoring’ site would listan to such conversations and
then tell. him of the contents. a ia

Il : <i Se After being released by G-2, the source vent into the Sierra
_ ,  Bacambray'Mountains as @ guerrilla, He stayed for about 90 days, and

ais came down in October of 1960 after Sinesio Walsh was killed.
“ 6. Source gave the organization of the (MRP) military section
which'he heads as follows: ;

8. The top command is known as Estado Mayor de Operaciones Militar
(acu). It consists of five people. ‘Three are active military officers.
: They include one major (navy),.one captain, and one first lieutenant.
: One nan ia @ retired officer of the rebel army. ‘The fifth person is

the source,

bd. Tvo elements subordinate to theHAM are the Comando Accion
(CA) and Inteligencia-1 (I-1).

c. Underneath the staff structure, a and b above, the organization

io broken down into provincial units,’ Each province is directed by a
"Mando" Wnich are numbered from 1-6, corresponding to the stx provinces
of Cuba. Each province thereby being known as Mando-1 (H-1) to Mando-6
(u-6). Each Mando, is divided into five Comendo Bstrategica (CE) and
each CE is divided into five columas. Each columna has 100-112 people,
divided into four companies. A-company is made, up of four squads of
eight men each.

d. The members of the CA are merged into the sub-paragraph ¢
structure. It has beeri found, he said, that because a person 13 a member
of. the military as all people in the military section are, it’ does not
seem that he is necessarily qualified for comando or sabotage vork.
Therefore, the best have been selected and can be called for action. -
However, the military section has very little (“casi nada“) arme or

explosives.

T.. Source said that in December 1961, and January 1952, the EMCM
made an islandwide survey of the organization and on the basis of the
survey calculates that about 7,000 men belong to the military section.
Taking into account that personal and family problems which might
preclude a man's takirig action could come up, it is estinated that
about 3;000-4,000, men could be counted upon. :

Q~ G~ ' i
> 12-9 / SECRET 4 fQe~ 22


K O70 3- 1. Jun 62

8. Source said that he left a suitcase behind in Cuba vhich contains
information which he wishes to get out of Cubs, In its contents is
information relating to nilitary camps, artillery positions, mine fields,
emergency military highvays, airfields, electric plants, radar systems,
microwave, Red Offictal. de Micronda (ROCMI), and recket installations.
The empbaais of the contents, he said, is on the north coast of Cuba.

He sadd that this suitcase 1s in close proximity to the Italian Embassy
in Havana, and that he has hope that the Italian Ambassador or the
Comeelior of Embassy vill be able to pick it up and bring it to the
United States. If not, he can probably arrange to get it on the Spanish
Ship which carried bin’ into exiles ia

9. Sourée said he vants to obtain arms and explosives for his
group. He gaia that contact in the Cubsn navy can help to get this
stuff into Cuba.

10. Source said that he has a Collins radio in Havana, and a W-T
operator. He mist get a redio on this efde, he said, in order to
communicate. If this cennot be done, he has contact wita pilots who

can carry out ingormation.
1, Other information obtained from the source wes as follows:

a. Source identified the captain who is a member of the EMOM (see
Paragraph 6a) as a penetration of the Cuban army and he vorks in “Inspeccion",
probably the army I.G, Scurce said that this officer reports that there
are 13 missile sites (rempas) in Cuba. Nost of them ore in Piner del
Rio but @ few are in Orientes. The missiles are known as "Vengadores
Bspeciales” and are said to have a range of 14,000 kilometers, but
source said this 1s not certain, The missiles are said to be ina
vertical position, and that the manning and operation of these sites 1s
separate from the army ani the militia. Missiles have a separate comand,
and the last information viich the source received vas that the command
headquarters for the miss‘le sites is housed in a house in the old
Biltmore section of Havana. (Note: Source vas turned over to military
debriefers for complete debriefing on this point.) The dateof this
information, the latest date, is approximately 12 December 1961, the
date the information wes brought to him by the cavtatn.,

ae ates fle a
rie vf Source sald thet on a appronigssely, ¥ fly "1962, he was informed
Be vy 8 guid? from Las Villes that Osvalfi®Raairez, the guerrilla chief,
was killed by Castro's forces and that the guide sav Osxaldo dead. Source
* said that he had previously received a message from Osvaldo as! st
_ Someone could dispatch a radio technician to Lim. Source said he did
this, and that the guide was to take the redio technician into the
mountains. ‘The radio technician vas captured and is now in Jail and
held in Santa Clara. Source said that the guide told hin that 6-2 made
@ raid in Santa Clara and fomd a list of nanes of people working in a

ECRET


CK 070

SECRET
abe LL dim 62

. Tesistance movenent which bal contact with Osvaldo. On the bssis of

follow-through, @ trap vas sprung. Osvaldo

this information end, 2

"was asked to come dow: from the mountains to attend an dnportant

meeting with the resistsnce leaders, and he-was then ambushed. Source

“said that Castro learns: vell ‘from Batista and that Castro’ knows

Batista’s big mistake ws in not bunting dowa Cestro and the other
survivors of the Granms invasion. Consequently Castro throvs large

Masses of militn egainst the exallest of guerrilla groups.

N

LN

os

12. Source eaid be can supply personality information on the
=

a. 0. Dorticos n. Captain Juan Escalona (Aide
bd. Fidel Castro. to Raul Castro)
c. Raul Castro ©. Msjor Fernandez (Chief of

Operations -an artillery ‘snd
mortar expert vbo aidai Castro
greatly at Playa Giron)

4. Juan Almeida
@. Major Sergio dei Valle
f£. Major Rautro Vsides

g- Enrique Otulskt : P. Captain Zenon Casas
hh. “Omani Ciefuesos @. Captain Lino Carreras
4, Raul Curbelo r. Major Manuel Pineiro
J» The Santamaria trothers 8. Major "Chino"
k. Captain Cuillerm Garcia (chief of a-2)
1. Armando Hart t. Major Aldo Santamaria (Chief of
m. Lazaro Soltura (Csztain) Minas del Frio)
Q.. Others
a Qe) BREE
1 é Pp Ge ARTIS

13. Source said thst Fabio'Escalona, ose of the notorious”
fomily and &\ former empicyse of thesCuban telephone company, is fa the

United States o- Puerto St Source’ said he pe rs kmovs that Fabio
is a. ist "from deep a3 vithin his guts" ond that he left. Cuba,

shortly after Playa Girox. {Thaic G2

1s, Source eaid thet ville’ he was the aide to Otulski he, the
source, was’ in charge of ncattoring telephones, His aides in this eteston
were Lt. Gomez who is nov {= Jail and Sergio‘Anchia who 1s now in Xian’
and who probably vill vork vith the, source in this area. Source sald
that the monitoring office was the second floor of the telephone canary;
The monitoring section for tbe American Babassy was special. It vas
located in o backroom off the source's office. Source caid he obdtaised
his instructions from Fisel castro and Ramiro Valdez. when a call vas
monitored, a report was mat: in four copies. One for Castro, ane for
the President, one for Ramiro Valdez and one was kept in the riles.

SECRET



SECRET

* cx o70 “5 i nm 62.

< 15. Source said, that vile he was monitoring the Amcrican Babasey
be vent to the house of Brova, the Counsellor of the Embassy, and informed
his that this vas beirig-done. lle told Bromn that the Exbasoy vns tapped
-and that ‘certain residences, sich as Colonel Nichole and other attaches,
were. Also monitored. °

16s Sourcesald thet this monitoring still continues. He ‘ead
that:dt Ga now done entirely by 'G-2 and Cominiote and that it 16
proteble that engineers, etc. of the telephone coupany who pass through
CAC kmov'none of ‘the details. Jn Batista's time, he said, the monitoring
vas done in the main office and a “jump” line was connected to the
ponitoring Office proper. Novadays, the "jmp" line is put on outeide ‘
the office, and no one inside has any {information on vbich line is Et
tapped. The ew plan he said, is to do the tapping from the various
telephone plants (“plantas”) by tapping each exchange. He said that
each monitor Listens to ten taps and has three tape recorders which
has been found to be a sufficient mmber, If another io needed, the
monitor is able. to we a recorder belonging to another monitor.

a: ' fs, Bouree has general information on guerrilla training including
{.” the training of foreign, Lat. icon guerrillas. He said that the

chief of training. 10(Major) Al ‘tamaria and thé€one of, the principal
Gases io Minas del Frio in the Sierra Maeatra Pountains ers a

Cj 7.tek £1680, the source attended mecting vith other uebers of the general

start in which invasions were discusoed:.- During this meeting Kemiro
Yolaez caid. that the gateway for the guerrillas: in Letin America is the
Panana/Colombia bolder in’ close proximity to the Andes Mountains and.
then dovn the Ande§ ‘spine into Latin America.’ ;

. 18. ‘The IMWAVE Station vas notified and tnmediately took over the
source. A 1

bs
a

SECR
