# 104-10172-10080

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10172-10080

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NiJ. 8

DiRECTi?

MALALA

wii?

000, C02, 2200/1, s/C 2

-429

PRiORITY

IN 444T5

PRITY DIR TASY INTO MEXI CITE HAVA 5854

NO NIACT

JANET

SO AMPALE D, WHO RECENTLE RETURNED TRE" MIAMI, REPORTED

FOLL TO STATION CUT-OUT GORDON MO SINIARIS 24 AUGE

A. UPC& ARRIVAL AT HIS. WIFE'S RESIDICE IN MIANI, A-A

FOUND THAT IONALD HOGAN NAD PLACED SEVERAL CALLS TOR A-S FROM

NEW YORK, HOGAN FINALLY CONTACTED A-4 BY PEONE AND ASKED TE HE

COULD COME TO MIAMI AND DISCUSS URGENT MATTER WITH AND. A-A

AGREED AND HÓGAN ARRIVED MIAMI 21 AUG. ECGAY-RELATED FOLLS

FRD COMPLETE FAILURE, WELL KNOTH THAT PRINCIPALS ARE

BEING PAID LIVING ALLOGANCE BY ODYOKE, AND TRO COMPLETELY DIS-

CREDITED DUE ITS BEING A CREATION OF COTOXE.:

2. MOGAN AND ALBERTO TEBNANDEZ ICHEVARRIA FORMER TREASURER

26 JULY MOVEMENT AND SUBSEQUENTLY HEAD ICEA FORKING ON MANIFESTO

WHICH WILL DENOUNCE FRE, URGE ITS SUPPORTERS TO REBEL AND WORX

WITH A GROUP NOY. INSIDE CUBA WHICH FREE FROM TOREIGN INFLUE#CE.

¡THIS CONTEMPLATED ACTION. HAS THE SUPPORT OF ROGELIO GONZALEZ CORZO,

NINO PIAZ, MICHEL YABOR, AND LORCOVE. :

3. HOSAN REQUESTED A-S LEAVE CUBA PERMANENTLY AND HEAD

SEGRET

REiDDUCTION BY DINDA THAN THE ISNTL OFFICE IS PROHISITER

-=-Copy tia

RETURN TO dis

Background Use Oni

Do No: Reproduce

---

## Page 2

SETu

UP EFFORT BITE FERNANDER STATING IN BACKEROLND.

S. ANd REPLICO THAT ME COULD NOT ACCEPT. POSITION TOR PERSONAL

REASONS BUT YAD NO OBJECTION TO COMPLYING VITY HOGANS REQUEST

TO SEE FERNANDEZ, AFTER HURRIED TRIP. NEW. YORX ON NEYSPAPER

INFERMICION RPT INTORMACION BUSINESS, A-A MET FERNANDEZ WHO

REPEATED DOGAN OFFER BUT HAS LESS PRECISE, A-A TELE THIS DUE

FIRSINDEZ EXTREME DEFFISULTY EXPRESSING KINSEL. MAGAIN

TURNED DOUN OFFES, BUT HAS URGED RETURN MIAMI AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.

C. HOSAN AND FERNANDEZ STATED THEY WERE GELL CONNEÜTED

WITH KUBARK AND THAT ONE OF KUBARXS CONTACT MEN WITH THE TRD

rie.

chi..

WAS ECS HOPKINS HOGAY STATED HE HAD MENTIONED A-A SEVERAL

TINES TO MIGHLY PLACED XUSARKER WHO REPLIED THAT A-A WAS ONE OF

THE FRO'S KEY MEN IN HAVA AND IN CONTACT FITH MUBARK. A-S DENIED

THIS EUT PRESSED SINLARIS ON THE POSSIBILITY OF HIS HAVING

BEEN BLOWN BY AMBIDDY-I, AMPALM.S, OR XUBARK.

2. BINIARIS STATES THAT THROUGHOUT A-4'S RECITAL ON ABOVE

EAS

A PITEX FOR

GUIDANCE, A-A APPEARED SINCERELY INTERESTED IN DOING

WHATEVER YOULD CONSTITUTE BEST JOINT INTERESTS, OFFERED GO MILITARY

CADRE TRAINING CAMP, A-A CORRECTLY RECALLED THAT IT WAS HE UHO

FIRST INTRODUCED AMRIDDY S AND AMPALMS TO ODYOKE, AND PROSABLY

KUBARY DURING ERMETAL TALKS. STATED THAT NIS JUDGMENT THAT O

THE FORMULA ARRIVED AT WOULD PROVIDE SOLUTION VAS PREDICATED

ON ASSUNPTION AMYUM WOULD EE RALLYING POINT FOR ALL MILITARY

ASPECTS OF ESTORTO SINCE AMYUM SPLINTERID EY INTERNAL POLITICS,

A-: OF OPINIOY THAT THOSE UNO MAXE MAJOR CONTRIBUTION TO MILITARY

SOLUTION VILL NATURALLY DICTATE POLITICAL CHARACTER OF POST CASTRO

GOVERNTENT.

SECRET

REPROCUCTICH BY OTHER THAN ISSUE OFFICE IS PEON:SITED.

---

## Page 3

14.00000

SEBT:

? T

insi

RECUEST HOS AND MASH PROVICE BY PRITY CABLE CONETOMING

INSO ON HOGAN-TERNANDEZ STORY AND GUIDINGE TOR AMPALM A TIÊS REGARD.

A-S'S RCÕE IN PRECIPITATING PASTORAL LETTER AND HIS POSITION ON

INFCRHACION OF EXTREME VALUE TO STATION, THERETORE ANXIOUS PROVIDE

PROMPT GUIDANCE,

FILEDI . 2922997

END OF AESSAG

SE NOTES ODELATDO MN TRANSMISS 100I

if desi

SEGRET

---

