# 104-10330-10010

## Page 1

moan

1104-10330-10010

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

15 May 1995

FOR:

FROM:

David Marwell

Executive Director, ARRB

John Pereira

CIA/Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: Mexico City/Sensitive Information

The Directorate of Operations prepared the attached

statement to assist the Assassination Records Review Board.

The statement explains the sensitivity of the records

related to telephone tap operations in Mexico City. This

may help provide a perspective for further discussions on

the subject.

series

John Pereira

Attachment

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: Release of Information on Mexico City Teltaps

1. Protection of sources and methods and liaison equities.

require that references to the Mexico City Station teltap

activity be excised from

auspices of the JEK Assassination Record Collection Act of 1992.

While the teltap activity mentioned in the documents under review

occurred some thirty plus years ago.

Release of any information that would constitute

official USG acknowledgment of the existencerof the joint teltap.

roperation would have a serious adverse impact on current 3

operations.

Relations between the Station and the

would be affected, with the likely outcome of f

discouraging

from cooperating in similar ventures in they

future with Mexico City Station.

Official acknowledament of the

existence of the joint teltap in the 1960's would embarrass the

given Mexico's strong brand of nationalism and L

sensitivity towards the issue of sovereignty vis a vis the United

States.

probably would terminate its cooperation r

with the Station on the current joint teltap operation in order?.

¿to be able to defend itself against domestic criticsi

SECRET

---

