# 104-10183-10262

## Page 1

104-10183-102625:

÷ 2022 RELEÄSE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ASSIFICO MESSAGE

SECRET

013 S6

TiLS

FEICRITY DIR CITE SALV 5301

IN+ 82908

250550067

RETS

SAW SS (N 82314

'DIR

2959

-OL

MUSE REFS COS AND LANCOSCH SET SCHARLES

23 SOPPERBER IN

IMPORTNICE AND SECUPTY CONSIDERATICS.

Fond guis nor piss-

ED AS ARCED ENTICETAL: COLY 16 AND

he chu tren do they dole mae do recess stre alien

LACROSCH FONE ON BURGE 2 IS "OST TPOSTANT LOCAL TARSE

TECHUSE MAS ISSUERCO GE AND ACCESS TO SCENTE PASTIES

SALV

CITATES, IS PSPIL

COMMITTEE, TRAVELS.

TO

Zar Hostel, prices, rext.

SISTE

aSE:

08

09 real

FOR 10109 70

.OZ

SECRET

• 12IRK

---

## Page 2

CUSSINCE MESSAGE:

SECRET

IN

DERAIG, OSERSE MEN MES FACILITIES AND LEGGST

SITUATO KUEATHS: COS. AND LASSOSCH SELLEVE TIERS HAS SESANO

ECURITY FROELEN TO DATE.

"DO NOT PLAY HIT ANY CINER TARGETS SALV AT THIS TIME, EXCSPI

EDEN 1 ESTORE E SPISE IMPORTAT TO RISE CONVING ARTSATION

PRESENSE OR REQUITERT EFFORTS. : PLAN TO CONTINLE:

ROTESROSTIC: ARE RECRUITAENT EFFORT. HIS SILENCE AND

RATICH IMFCITANT IN TNEKGELVES BUT AL50 FOR PGRESCING REASONS

DACEE: SANDLE EXACTLY AS ALPARE IS

THAT IT PILL INCLIFE PAYLIS COST CE FUPTER STUIGS OF SACTNER IN

A FATE MET SPITES AN of listerior rope sExe

COSE CR RIGHTIE IS TUL AGENCE SECURITY STA GPORT.

FADUATION TED 50K

niX

PerRoTALLY

C A COTPLETINE WORK AT 1OZE D

J08

SCHOOL GAD OTTE COORES TO ESTAGLACH COMPETENCE IN APPLYING 5O.T

-...". ICE DOO SUREET SONDOLE, HOSPIRALS CE PESEARCH

M:ise1

3900325

"1!

we eager in area a tempst

?!

SECRET

---

