# 104-10172-10025

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10172-10025

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

100

OMF 0

(LanDarian

amorons

CONF: C/ iN 7

OUTGOINT

MESSAGE

con

= 00

0

D

INFO:

FILE

170061L

CIA

148/AN, DS02, sOON

70800

DISSEM BY: 48

PEN ESSE

#13Z

TO: FBIL/INTELLIGENCE DIVISION.Y

SECRET - WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED - NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS. U.

SUBJECT: JORGE ANTONIO ZIMERI SAFIE AND GERALD PATRICK HEMMINGY

C18-716/02473-764 OLuninney treese te IB

I. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION ON SUBJECTS IS BEING FORWARDED

FOR WHATEVER ACTION YOU DEEM APPROPRIATE-Y

2. ON 8 JUNE 1976, A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTED THAT

JORGE ANTONIO "COKIE" ZIMERI SAFIE, A GUATEMALAN CITIZEN WHO HAS BEEN

LIVING IN MIAMI SINCE AUGUST 1575, WAS INVOLVED IN A PLOT TO ASSASSI

NATE GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT KJELL EUGENIO LAUGERUD GARCIA. THE ACTION

WAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED OUT IS SEPTEMBER 1975, BUT ZIMERI WAS

WOUNDED IN GUATEMALA CITY DURING AN ARMED ATTÄCK ON HIS LIFE IN LATE

AUGUST 1975 AND WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT. ZIMERI LEFT

GUATEMALA ILLEGALLY AND MAY BE IN THE U-S. UNDER FALSE PRETENSES-Y

3. ZIMERI WAS BORN IS MAY 1944. IN GUATEMALA CITY, GUATEMALA.

HIS PARENTS ARE ELIAS ZIMERI NASSAR AND ELENA JESUS SAFIE. INFORMA-

TION ON HIS TRAVEL DOCUMENTATION IS NOT AVAILABLE BUT HE CARRIES

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

ETT:

"SOSS FILE COPY FOR

201-309125

SO HOT DESERCY

tit.

cantonan

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO

UFFICE IS PROMIBITED

E 2

IMPDET .

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE•

0

000

OMF

SECRET

macros

0

0

14

DATA MAAR ANON

CIA:

0

DISSEN BT:

CONF:

INFO: FILE

870800

по толь

ts men n

PER

GUATEMALAN ID CARD NO. 1286340 ISSUED IN GUATEMALA CITY ON ÉA MAY aL

1932.4

4. ALSO REPORTEDLY INVOLVED IN THE ASSASSINATION PLAN WASÀ

U.S. CITIZEN: GERALD. PATRICK HEMMING, CALSO KNOUN AS JERRY HENNINGS,

WHO LAS SAID TO BE INVOLVED IN ACQUIRING AND TRANSPORTING ARAMS TO

GUATEMALA. Y

S. HEMMING IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL TO G. P. HEMMING, FORMER U.S.

MARINE AND SOLDIER OF FORTUNE WHO HAS BEEN ENGAGED IN CUBAN AND ANTI-

CASTRO MOVEMENTS FOR SEVERALS YEARS.Y•

b- THE INFORMATION IN PARAGRAPHS TWO AND THREE HAS BEEN FOR-

WARDED TO INS-Y

?. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM

GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E:0. 11652. EXEMPTION CATEGORY

IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION d

FILE: 201-0218893: 201-3091250

BASED ON GUATEMALA CITY 37536

LA COMMENT: REF ASKS FOR APPROVAL TO PASS PRESIDENT LAUGERUD'S

QUESTIONS I ON A I TO SITE

OPS/LSN/BE

03

15 JUNE 1976 03

DATE FAMES D. MASSEYESA

LAIMCAMIGES

UNIT: 9041

** Files

ADJO

DC/LALCAR [L

ACILAIMCAM

Artin Per!

DRAFT

C/LAD

REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING UPFICE IS PROMIBALO

F 2

IMPDFY

---

