\CT OF 1992 j
|104-10216-10393) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS A\ i

: ce : i 7 it 7

—— a SECRET o

REPORT ON DEVELOPMENT OF AN INCOMING SW MESSAGE

To. —f.Roherta———______pjvision or Branch: u/se faa
(Field Units Use Pseudo)

!
1

| Report on the Development of SW Message #. From AMASH/. __ (agent Crypto)
i Mailed from to
| : Date Letter Postmark Rec'd Lab -30_June 65 i

1 It ls requested that the Case Oficer examine the visible correspondence for context and appear-
ance, in order to assess its effectiveness as a cover fo: for the SW message.

2 Results cf the Technical Examination:

a id the envelope appear to have been opened in transit?” Hat mecatrea
a ‘Was any evidence of the SW visible prior to development? we

ee ae TT agg Ee EEE
EEE Ee Sea

4 Technical Suggestions To Be Relayed to the Agent: Use SW carbon
TT O__-

C4SE, “was PYSSEO THPeo aw PREEL PME Twice

Dy
Submitted by: Stuart C. David
Geld Units Sign in Pseudo)

ies of the letter and en anda ipt of the developed SW message
Photocopi elope and a photocopy or transcript

Form 60-1 (IN)
Revised Feb. 1963



Sew Sa Cem pada AL Visti & he Re

4 \

Fp Vek Wow c Geet ens tte ti i :
i i My & AS Prana ay rear bate Gy :
i hk ets Zann, Pet Tae Nees itiae Vices CQ !
i AR harmed. Cu Wd es die War Tuan do '

7 i
. ute
SSN ION eo Saw Deak eRe KKH a aa ournly Ha Ai,

‘eg ee
para ba han stuscuun pryteweale, i

Vs : .
Fang diane wk tee Saar Ma vse li, wee Se

an ®
cose. &
EK Leen AKGe Miece Veer Aes Lig, a Seda ne cage |
Ke a auites ype Sirens a Pe Wd eau a deuce
yh ii aw pa Neha Se | 7 ;
area oo Nee ween Bu har gacs Vans Fie.
Lan Remade vauclis per ole, \

i
i
Awa & aw Ge ii Fare Qo. : i

eR ie oe TS

