'104-10186-10167|

rer a)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

a

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

contains mirmatice affecting the Natloosl Dyfease of tbe Tuned fates wtthin the meaning of the Eiplocage Laws, Title

smn
URC Seen 3H aod THA the erenerulanion of rereintion of WRISR Un aay Mander to an Neutborined Perea te profited ty law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
‘countey Caba REPORT NO, = CSCI-316 /01256-65
suMECT “MAYRA” (an alias) \ Dare DISTR. ©=-18 March 1965 -
Saal a
‘ NO. PAGES: 1
REFERENCES = CS-311/00115-64 : :
(Page 11) 7
peceeee 8 July 196
DATE OF 1 64 ; at E

ae Washington, D. C. ae
DATE Acq. March 1965 ELD REPORT NO.

Res S_UNEVAIUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE OETINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments : 8 ae UR

'
R

re To

The following report is one of a series containing personality0o Nori Us, Clq
information provided by the source and includes supplemental Rep, © Onty.
information from the records of this Agency. "dice

It is requested that the addressees ‘take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the Labbiaeeraed atabad without
first checking with this Agency.

1, "MAYRA" is the secretary of Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, chief
of the MI Section (The Department of Technical Operational
Support) in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General
Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2. "MAYRA," whom source believes to be a Cuban citizen,
was born between 1940 and i945,.is about five feet eight
anctes tall, weighs approximately 120 pounds, and has a thin build.
She has a white complexion with red cheeks, blond hair, and
> green @yé5. She has a small, straight nose; a small chin and
mouth;,a thin face and thin lips; a long, thin neck; and even
teeth.

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this read reveal no additional identifiable
information on "MAYRA i

SECRET
‘NO FOREIGN DISSEM

rede

‘STATE

Tre. + ARMY Trave Tare Tasa

REP CINCLANT CINCSO # T&NS

4CSCI-316/'01256-

HAVE : [
rors mC S (1). Wel (1), Cl 4, RID 1

BR

ly
a

