# 104-10247-10036

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10247-10036

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Arease,

ROUTING

5

03

WAINWRIGHT)dl

I . WH/C/FI/TC

8. 6153

• NO INDEX, $

л. 16/MARCH/1965

I FU IN OS TRE NO.

15-4

•CARIS GOAD

15-23

15-2

MADRID

DIRECTOR

1/wH/c

MESSAGE FORN IS

3

Le

16110765

PRITY PARI) 5-4

Sto do=?!

ANO FlE, 8C, DIP, MOil, C/WE S, CA:Z, C/C1

: 15-9 15-22 1 5-3

NO ROME

(MADES

att Die

(ROUTINE)

DESERYBAE PBRUMEN AMPHIP

93043

REPA PARI)9799 (IN 22994)

20-4

1. APPRECIATE REF. REALIZE FROM PAST TALKS WITH "ROBERTO" AND

FROM CABLE COMMENTS THAT AMHIP USEFUL. SUGGESTION OF NO CONTACT PER

DIR 92042 STEMMED FROM FACT THAT ORIGINALLY THERE NOT TIME BEFORE ETD

TO MEET ANNUP FOR BRIEF PER (ROTOTAS (IN 19836), PLUS/CONSIDERATIONS

2. OBJECT OF MISPAWN OP CITED DIR 92042 IS PLANT OF RUMOR WITH

CUNSNAFU/19 THAT ODYOKE ACCEPTS ORIGINAL GOALS OF PBRUMEN REVOLUTION AS

SOUND, ACCEPTS FACT THERE SOME CAPABLE PBREMENS STILL IN HIGH GOVT

POSITIONS TODAX, AND THAT, APTER OUSTER AMTHUG AND COMMUNISM, ODYOKE

WILLING DEAL WITH THESE OFFICIALS. OSTENSIBLE SOURCE OF RUMOR IS TOP

LEVEL PBPRIME BUSINESSMAN WITH CLOSE CONNECTIONS HIGH CIRCLES ODYOKE.

AMWHIP HAS MET SUCH WITTING ASSET IN NEW TORK WHO AGREED LET AMWHIP

02

USE HIS NAME IN ORDER LEND CREDENCE IN TALAS WITH UNSNAFU/ 19. RUMOR

TO BE DROPPED CASUALLY DURING EXTENDED CONTERSATIONS WITHCUNSNAFU/19.

VARIATIONS THIS THEME BEING FED TO OTHER SELECTED PBRUMEN DIPLOMATS.

CURONAFU/19 ONZY ONE IN FRANCE, OBJECT ES OP ROPEFULLY TO STIMULATE

CTION AGAINST ANTHUG FROM WITHIN E RELING CIRCLES

DORDIMATIMO ORBIC!!

10vs

lantandas

но отако

RIPRODUCTION AY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

Cooy Na.

30=

3

".

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET/RYBAT

ROUTING

EXT

DATE.

O INDOL

O NO INDEX

1 FI IN O TU NO.

¡RoM DIRECTOR

10

PAGE THO

02

NFO

OTe DEa

...

93043

3. IDEALLX, (UNBNAFU/19 WILL ACCEPT STORY ON PACE VALUE AND NOT

SUSPECT ODYOKE HAND. MARTER) IN EVENT IT RAISES ANY SUSPICIONS RE

MM#HIP, BELIEVE I PRUFERABLE HE STAY CLEAR KUBARK CONTACTS EUROPE

NEVERTUELESS,

THIS TRIP. ESKE IN DEFERENCE(PARD REQUEST, WILL ATTEMPT BRIEF

A'HIP RE TELEPHONE SECURITY PRIOR DEPARTURE AND AUTHORIZE CONTACT ONLY/

"ROBERTO" IN PARIS, REQUEST MEETINGS HELD TO MINIMUM. FIRERATE, EXPECT I

OR BEGINNINE NEXT

CONTACT DY AWHIP LATTER PART THIS WEEK IF (PARI) RECEIVES NO WORD TO

815-4

CONTRARY BY COB 17 MARCH.

END. OF MESSAGE

teteran

16/323 6 Silda (tute,)

Clint Ian

DESMOND FITIGERALI

C/TH

Flow

F. fuel

THOMS F.

THIELE

C/HE/INI

0001888

RIPRODUCTION AY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONINITIO.

Coor Ma

---

