# 104-10216-10353

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10216-10353

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

on..o

3 Harch 1965

MENORANDUA POZ THE RECORD

SUBJBCT: AWHIP-l Noeting, New York CIty, 19 February 1965

1502302120 426 351

This neeting va

purposo of the seeting vas to attempt to satisly requirenente

loviod by Nestor Sanchez, Wh/SA/SO, on events which toos

place during AlWHIP-l's sost recent sojourn in Europe (January-

February 1965) 1n company with AHLASH-1.

Mooting was also

used to detaruino ALWHIP-l's willingness to participate in the

"discord progran" using UNSNAFU-19 as the unwittina reciplent

of certain runors, the details, of which are covered in

subsequent paragraphs.

It sight be noted for the record that this meetine tas

schoduled for the norning of 18 February, but duo to

ANTHIP-I sissing the schedulod fl1ght fron Miaml, the seering

vas passposad. unt1l tha above time.

Detatle Of tho Hooting

The 801101Dg InfornatIon on the various topics as

Indicated concorm basically those requiements which have

been intended for,

and levied on, AHLASH-1.

However, due to

the fact that AlWHIP-l was together in Europo With AlLASA-l,

ANHIP JaB debriefed on the requirements on the outsido

chance that ho night have son complimentary intornation on them.

Or lando Blanco, Cuban Diplomat 1s Bera, Switzerland.

AINHIP-1 528-

unable to give any additional intorastion on

Blanco ag he had not set the man in Europe and does not remembar

having not his 1a lavara..

(ANTHIP-l stated that AHLASH-1

claised that ho (AiNHIP-l) had in fact met Blanco a number

of yeurs ago 1n Havana, but AMHIP says he truly does not

rexasbar the sen.)

He stated that any additional information

On BlanCO would have to come froM olther AlLASH-l Or AbLASH-3.

In approAching Blanco for cooperation, AlWHIP strongly

suggested that it would be best to use AMLASh-3 for. the

1n181al contRet. ANNHIP stated that BLANCO Knew AULASH-3 voll

and that he was a trusted representative land therefore ant1-

CAStTO) O1 AMLASE-1, ANWHIP-1 vas told ve vero 100:1n% into

BlasCO and alsO Into QUIOPS-1, Attache Cuban Embassy, Madrid.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

b.

In discussing CUHOPS' desire to cooperato, AMPHIP

stated that QUiOPS would do what he could to help but that

In exchange tor this he vanted to get his vile, tuo children,

and his nother-in-iaw to the United States along with hlesell.

ALNHIP-I stated that QUHOPS' plan in brief vas to accept

the guard duty on Sunday thus sasing probably only hinsel!

and the gile of code clur: pregent in the embassy, ne

thanied AHWHIP for his Information and suggestions and

stated that they would be conveyed to the appropriato parties

concerned.

Gustavo GONZALES. (AMLASH-l'S "COUSIn") ANWHIP-I

statod that to had no Information on Gonzales,

In whOm

Nestor Sanchez has an operational interest with regard to hig

(Sanchez') pending PCS to Caracas, Venezuela.

"Venezuolen" Returning from Moscou.

Regarding the

Venezuelan who has reportedly to have just cone fron yoscon

_and returnlag to Cuba, ANTHIP-l stated that ho had no

Information to contribute about the man.

lie did say, borerer,

that one time during his recent trip to the Cuban Embassy

Pars talkIng WIth UNSNAFU-19, the Ambassador had intorrupted

their conversation in order to tal's to two men (about 30-35

yoars old).

AlWHIP-l not them briefly and vas told by one

of thes that they vore Iron Oriente province.

ALWHIP-I

stated that he could toll lumediatoly by their accente

that they vere not Cuban.

In order to confirm this he

askod then uhere in Orlento they vere Iron becauso one of the

Cuban officials in Parla vas fron Oriento and always vanted

to chat with any people fron Oriente who passed through paris.

Altor a briel stumbling oxercise, groping for a name of a

city in Oriento, the "Cuban" confessed that they were not

Cubans but Venezuelans.

AH"HIP did not have suffident time

to learn nore about then.

the two Venezuelang apent about

thirty minutes talklog with UNSNAPU-19 bile AMWHIP was there.

he did not know hon much longer previous to this thirty

minutes that the Venezuelang had been in the Embaggy or to whom

else they taliod.

AsMHIP-1 suggested that UNSNAFU-9 night

Do able to obtain the names of the two Venezuelana in question.

UNSHAFU-19's Hembership in the "Gaslight Club".

~ As a support service for & Paris Station operation

To get

UNSHAFU-19 soubership in the Caslight Club where It would be

attesptod to run a highly desirable fenalo agent againet his.

AHLASH-I statod that ho had been unablo, due to UNSNAFU-19'&

busy schedule, to got the latter donn to the Gaslight Club

and enrollad as a benber. ANTHIP stated, bonever, that be

could do the job just as voll by taxing out a 31ft membership

105 UNSNAFU-19 through the Gaslight Club In New Yori Clty,

and sending UNSNAFU-19's membership card and sey to hia in

Paris.

He encouraged AMHIp-l to do this and to seep un

advisod of his progress.

---

## Page 3

4-00000

-3

Diacles Torraiba

Cuban Air Force Conandante DiebAts, Regarding

DICLOIS who had allegedly arrived in

ParIs Iron Algeria dur 1n8

the time that Sanchez and AlWHIP-l were there, AlRIP-I said

that he did not know the san or did he have any information on

@ Conandanto with that name or a name that sounded llie that.

He said that he had heard something about a Comandante with a

strange nane but he could not contribute more than that.

He

suggested that AHLASH-1 uight be ablo to identify the man.

AfrIcan trip,

and probably algo the one to China as a nember of

¿ble security force.

ANNHIP said that the name did not register

with hin and ho had no other information to givo. He again

suggested that AMLASH-l might be ablo to belp.

One thing more

AHHIP. antdiond that he did not thin's that any of Che's security

men were saned sernis, and he thought this was not a correct

Kaow

He did say, however, that while he was in Paris

there had

two socurity types there who were guarding tro or three

dark green trunis about the size of foot locers and four or

fivo suitcases. ANYHIP said that they both had pistols, one a

soulet nachine pistol and the other a 32 calible Madrid but he

ANNHIP does not

rouenber the exact date that they left PariB for

romenbers that the flight left at 1:50 In the afternoon and

too's place about two weeks ago (ca. 5 February).

AWHIP Says that

UNSNAFU-9 Knows both of these men and could be contacted for their

names and a better description.

h. Carlos Franqul.

AHwHIP-1 had no additional

Informatics on franqui except to say that he ‹new he vas not

happy.

He also belleved that AMISH-l had additional intornation

On FrAnQUI.

1.

concerning securIty measures on the abipent of loconotives to

Cuba, ANTHIP sald that he bad no additional intornation to

contributo. AWHIP also stated that he had obtaised no additional

INIOrMAtION ITON PISSOLA, the engineer concerned with the shipsent, .

to, and the use of, these loconotives.

thought AMLASH-l might have some additional information.

also stated that he thought "Americo" tal is too mueh and that

maybe "Nar1o" would be best to assist in the operation.

(Conment: See Ronis for further edification of the subject.)

Jl, a

---

## Page 4

4-00000

ЛNHIP-ЇBtAMA9"-1'3 Accommodation Address Arrangemente.

stated that be bad reviewed accoumodation addresses

with AHLASH-l and bad given appropriate instructions to

AMNHIP-2 In the event of the receipt of letters fron

Havana signed by AMlASH-l or signed by a "Cuban" uhos

AbHRIp? did not knou. (Comment: lt was a good tolas ve

revioned accommodation address with AltilP-l, see below.

For the record AHLASH-I will address his letters to AutHIp?

ofther in caro of big business address in Rowe uhich 18:

Cavaliero Hilton

Jewelry Shop

Honto Marlo

ROTa

OT tO ANNHIFtS 's business addross in Geneva (ubich incidentally

18 Identical with his boue address, as AMiBIP-L operates la

Geneva fron his apartment): Rue Crespin, Gerova, Su1tzerland.

(It Bbould ba noted that ANTHIP-? intenda to open a proper

offico In Geneva ln tho noar luturo.

Howevor, this is no

j'or changing the accousodation address in

Сапота.)

AnnHip-d stated that he had given the undersigned's

postoffico box in Washington (Willlas A. Thoupson,

P.0.

Box 7224,AFoX StatIOn, Hashington, D.C.

to AsяHIP-2, belleying

that this would' expadite our receipt of lettero Iron AMlasH-l.

Al#llpol vas told that his concern 1or rapid trassaittal of

the lotsors was certainly appreciated, but that for security

It was much bettor that they be forwarded in a cover

envelopo to AM#HIP's address in Ney Yor: CIty, pretorably,

hla business address:

ANNHIP': uas 8180 told

to renind

ahwMIP-2 that ho should handle the letters ho received from

Havana as little as posalble and put them la cover envelopes

and sond then as quicily as possible to ALUHIP-l in Ney Yori

city.

In this connection it remains the probion of obtaining

these letters on a expeditious basis whon ALMHIP-1 18, for.

exasplo, out of town for a prolonged absenco.

It. 18

Buggosted that Willlan Thompson's accommodation business

1n vashington bo

GIVEN tO AITHIP's father so that he any

forward ALHHIP-2's letters to washington "ithout undue delay.

(ThIs 18 an oxcellent oxamplo of a breadown 1a compartmentation

1n Cubas operatIOns.)

к.

PRI18 Embassy Personnel. According to a telephone

call on 18 february Iron AMLASH-T in Paria, AWHIP-I stated

that AHLASE-1 had said that UNSNAFU-8 and, perhaps, UNSNATU-D

would be out i jobs in the near future in accordance with

the present economy drive by the Cubans.

AMLASH stated that

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Cuban Government Financial Straits. (ReS.

i dona, comeste on the salver paymenta el ed da rose

AMiHIPal stated that the Cubars vere apparently very anxious

to Boll the silver cited in Bef.

Actually AlwHIP-l

stated that the total anount of the payments would be 1n

the nolehborhood of $350,000 and this included antiques,

postage starps, silver bulllon, and "worsed" allver articlos.

AMWKIP alboratatod that be had been agied 11 be would

be w11l1nz/ buy $100,000 worth of silver on the spot, the

cash to be placed l0 a reputablo international bans.

This discussion had been carried on by international telephone

w1th Popin Sanchez, brother-1s-lau of Cella Sanchez, and Jose

Iglesias Lopex, good friend of ANtHIP-l and sorner Havana

Jeweler. AMKHIP-I talsed to the above in Ravana Iron the Cuban

Embassy, Par1s. This $100,000 vas a part of the total $350,000

aentioned above.

AkiHIP-l turned down the sale, stating that

ne old not normally deal in silver, and was not suro of the

value of the worked Items offered for sale. ANiHIP-I statod

that this sale nas to ba execured on behall of Castro

personally and did not ascessarily reflect the overall

Iinancial pleture of the Cuban goverament.

that AHLASH-l had told him that such an action vas typical

of Castro, uho in

many instances, conducted business

arrangesents of his own, "ithout regard or vithout consultation,

with the nenbors of his governsent normally involved in Cuban

national finances. ANMHIP-1 statod that UNSNAFU-19 also bad

Intinatod the above.

AMWHIP-1 seatod that he belleved that

this soney was needed for the dounpayment on two factories

which had been purchasod by the Cubans in Great Britain.

Ho also stated that ho belloved these factories vere for

the processing of agricultural products of some type.

AlsO,

concerning the silver, according to AMWHIP-l, that 30% had

boen reduced to bullion and that the rest consisted of "worsed"

silver articles (antiques, art treasures, jovelry, arc.)

ANNHIP stated that this entire offering of silver antiques, etc.

had eventually been gold on the spot in Havana for cash to

an unknow person of turklah/ Italian baciground.

tried to lind out the identity of the person but neither

INSKAFU-19, In person, nor Igleslas, by phone,

would

roveaL the

Identity of the buyer.

AHKHIP-1 offered to urite

or asi Iglestas for the nans, but de cautioned against 1t

as showing undue interest in

the natter. AlWHIP-1 was told

that 11 he ever san Iglesias in person and could safely 285

him he should do so tagother with any dotaila he could

obtain about

the trangaction

financial probiens.

• 7

- 5t

---

## Page 6

214-00000

the Paris Arbessador's conference in Hadrid, UNSVATU-19 carried

a very largo trua: 1n his car.

It was so heavy that the rear of

the car was clearly weighted-down. AIMHIP speculated that this

trunk had been brought to Madrid by Arnold RODRIGUEZ Caups and

DaS turned Over tO USNAPU-19 prior to the lattor's rotura to

in connection with this, AllHIP-I received a phone call

Genova on the 18th of February and had Invited AHLASH-l.

Havans via Hadrid on the 23rd of

On the norning of

the 19th of February Alfulpel recelved a call frou AWHHIP-2

stating that UNSNAFU-19 vas driving to Geneva on the 19th.

He

and with bla some $11,000 1n silver articles.

AlNAIP-2, tho san

the 1tens, said that the "stuff vas cheap" (neaning inferior

workmanship and quality).

19.

AHLASH-!, Morale and Finances.

we then broached the

topio of AlAsH's attitude and present frame of sind after our

refusal to give hia $10,000 that he requested for operational

AMYHIP-l stated that he thought AllulSH-l nas not overly

disturbed by this, but that 1n general he was sonerhat upset by

the fact that ho

had even entered into negotiations nith AMBidDY-),

objecting to his "political mentality".

It night be noted that

ANUHIP-1 also stated his reservationg about AMBIddy-l.

FrOs

this, me dortved the foeling that AHLASH-l and AWHIP-l both

had strong but unspocified reservations about the sotivation and

morality of AMBIdDY-l.

AHLASH said that due to this reservation

0f AlLASH-l's, and due to the relativo newness of the contact,

AMLASH-I vas extremoly coluctant to taie any noney ITon AMbIdDY-1,

which, of course,

in the and he did not. ANilip-l stated that

AMLASH folt that he had been pushed by the Americans into a

basically unwantod relationahip with AMBIDDY-!. AlHIP-l stated

that he, as well as AMuSH-l were still baffled at the Anarican

reluctance to deal across the board on all matterg. with

AMLASA-1.

He stated that AMLASH-l had received certain items

fION AMBIDDY -1 that he vas not able to obtain Iron the Amaricans.

AMRHIP-1 made it a point to state that ANLASH-l notod inmediately

and pointedly that the items provided to him by AlBIDDY-l vere

not homenade nor apparently one-of-ind lteus. (the inference bere

being quite clearly conveyed to the undersigned was that these

Itera obviously came fros comercial gources. ›

poople of his choice in particular jobs where they could be of

at 11-12 7-7-111

---

## Page 7

14-00000

be..

-7-

crItIcal value to AlLAgE 1s aDy plans he vould porsulato.

(AMTaIP cired,

for exasplo, Carradante Nieves, conandante

of the port of Havana, tho

in 419 position 18 of great value

tO ANLASE-L SOT ODVIOUS TORBDOS.)

AMIHIP-I stated tres this

eubalty soney permittod these pooplo to remain la place by

providing an addition to their 1scodos, uno otheralso due to

the high cost of living todsy 1n Savana, would bo cospelled

fOr eCOnOmIC reasOnS to seel employsent elserbero. Tho

andersigned then askod the rather pointed question of thother

Os nOt AlLASA-! Bot say of the soney that he noeded. AlBLE:

as1d, "Yes, I save it to bla".

Ve asked hin bor such and

Do besitated.

After a little discussion and a direct questios,

he stated that he has giren 87, 000 to AiLASH-l. ALMaIP-I

stated that AlLASH-l did not, in fact, have the soney yot Bad

that the noney mould be given to him probably tàis reekend

20-6l February 1n Paris by Alibip-t.

AKSHIP-l stated that

ANNHIP- hRa becoMa InvOlved in the traneaction becauso ho

had to appoal to hin for belp in ralsing the doney 10 a fairly

confidential'senser.

BITALgERANTS tO GIVE ALLASH-1 LODOY

during hia stay In Badid had fallen through, ANTHIP had

learned,

thus tha rosson for AIRHiP-g's being forcod to go

to ParIs 1n order to give it to hin this veeband.

AK"HIP-1

aiso statod that ALLASH-1 had askod J0s0 Iglosias in Havana

80т воше 3,000 ровой.

Igleslas vas not able to ralse the sun

at the tine roquastod.

Thother or not be is attempting to do

30 nor, or has succeeded in doing so during AllAsH-l's absence,

18 not

koown at this time. It abould be noted that during

dIscussionE Concerning the AMBIDDY/ALASH rOlatIOnShIP, ANtHIP

Btatod

that AMBIDDi had told ALASH of at least ana portion of

his connectiona with the americans. AlmalP-l stated that he had

Bet In on tho discussions duriag which tina AlBidDe purportodly

nade this statezant.

ANSHIP also stated, as ha. had doso la

PrEVIOUS BEELIDES,

that solther ho or allisa could understand

why the Americans did not aako lurther use of AMLASB-3 and

AMLASH-2.

Be also felt that there more many bita and plecos

of tho shole picture that vere not tiad into a seat biadlo and

utilized to their lull extent by the Americans.

The undersigned

at Lo tina sanIttod that Do URO AURIO Of ADy AMBIDDY/ADOrICSA

rolatlonship as alluded to by Astrip-l.

:.

Por the record, ANNHIP-I again atressod the fact that

be felt that ho could produce nore information and better sorro

LUBARX IntereSto 11 he had & CABE OffICoT uho kuna all aspocta

Of the AHLASH comples and the cast of other Cuban characters In

Europe in whom there nes an interest and to whos Annalp-l bad

ассова.

Be emphasIzed tARt PAIlA CaSE OffICer R. OFen (and

PrOSUSably otDer EUrOpean-bAged Caso O1fIcers) tita aboa ho

has dealt) mas very helpful and that he enjoyed their relationship.

but that there us en obvious lack of depth of kaouledgo of s11

REPOCTE Of An AMLASH-AHIBIP OPATATION ANd AlSO Of thOSe prINCIpally

technel

---

## Page 8

14-00000

→8-

Involving only ANNHIP. He felt that be could bo moro effective

vita continuous zuidance and direction during his European

(AHWHIP also implied that the case nificors vero

understandably busy with their sany local probiens and could

not devoto as such time as posalbly nas desirable to ANtHIp-l's

On the other hand, ANtHIP-l delicately submitted that

11 he was willing to tase the time for the oporations, and 18

In fact they were worthwhile and necessary, ne should maie

every reasonable effort to glean the cost benefit fron his

In sumary, 1f feasible, he prefers to deal with one

cago officor on all aspects of his operational activity.

AHLASH-1. According to ANWHIP-1, he and AlLASH-l have

established an open code for signalling his desiro for oxfiltration

or to infor AliHIP-l when the date of bia Attempt will ba.

exfiltration Involves the use of birthday grootings to Lorotta

ada sylvia Indicato exfiltration froa latanzas or Miramar,

respectively.

AMBIDDY-l presumably has the details for execution

once ho is inforned of the reyword by ANHIP-l. The Attempt 18

to bo noted by any mention of the nano SIMON, together with a date,

Deception Ploy (Rumor plant with UNSNAFU-19).

In rosponse to the request for his opfnion on this subject

after it had boon outlined as agreed upon at Headquarters,

ANxHIP-l stated that he thought that he could carry this off

"Ithout UNSRAFU-19 baing suspicious.

He stated that this typo

os information would have to come forth at the right noment in

a natural manner, and during a rather lengthy personal meeting.

Do felt that to

do this by telephone or loiter would be totally

out of koeping with his normal relatlonship with UNSNAFU-19

and that it should not be done in that nanner.

In response to

the suggestion, however, he sald that it could be done 11 his

stopping.off In. Paris to see UNSNAFU-19 tOO: place as a part of

a normal businesa trip to Europa.

Be also stated that he felt

be had to have sonething upon which to peg the story.

АукнIр-1

agrood with the feasibility of the suggestion of putting hin in

touch with a reputable businessuan in New Yoris, who has good

connections in Government circles in Hashington and whom he

concelvably could have known for sons time as a result of a

normal business relationship.

ASHIP-l agreed to return to

Burope in sno or three reess

especially to perfori this tas.

Ho was in agreenent with the

undersigned's idea that, in order

o piay 1t as safely as possible, this seeting with UNSNArU-19

should not take place at least until after the 24th of February..

the expected retura dato of AHLISH-1 tO Havana. Boid: Ior this

---

## Page 9

14-00000

-.

rEASON DAd fOr AtHl!g on hUSiDess satters, ve Mill prostan

his return to Europe lor sonetina during the

firat or second

Moks of tarch 1985.

AlTHIP-1 vas told that arrangements mould be

nado for hin to knon about, or sctually to noot, the astonsiblo

Bource of this Information In New YorI sonatine during the laut

wook of february or the first veer of March. He vas told also

to keep in touch with the undersigaod in the ovent of any

Dews received ITon BUrope COnCeraIng AlLISH-l or any ol the

cast of characters la this mesorandus.

4. Tho nooting terainatod at 1610 hours and there pere

so inaldoncos of s socurity natura to be reportod.

Willian B. Fainvx1ght

WH/C/PI/TC

---

