(104-10180-10062|

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

089 se) /Y [ot :

cate» 16 JFLEMBER 1958

to. OIRECTOR

ftom +

ache RECT LL LECT

NFO + COP, FI, FI/0PS, FI/RM 3, PP'Z,
pp/PMo, 100 4, Do/t, Ad/el, s/c

OIR cre HAVA 9693,
INTEL

OA 16 DEC

APPR: PARAS 1,4 (2) PARAS. 203 (3), Baras 5-6

SOURCE: PARA 1 | LAS VILLAS PLANTATION |

OWiER (F) PARAS 2,3 AMARIA (B) PARA 4 AMBARK-1 (C) PARA 5
Ob [HARRY GRAHAM] (F)\ FROM OR MEER (F) eek
1, ERNESTO SUCVARA’HAS MOVED WESTWARD. HIS EXACT
LOCATION NOT KNOWN BUT 165 MEN THOUGHT TO BE UNDER HIS
COMMAND ARE CAMPED NEAR MANACAS IN WEST LAS VILLAS.
GUEVARA IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVE BELIEVED TO BE TG CUT OFF
CENTRAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC WEST OF SANTA CLARA. FC: AMBARK-2
CONFIRMS THIS REBEL STRATEGY, SAYS MAY BE PLANNING TRY
CUT HIGHWAY AT SANTO DOMINGO. SC: HEAVY TRUCKS CANNOT .
TRAVEL EAST OF SANTA CLARA. BACKROADS CAN GE USED BY
AUTOS AND LIGHT TRUCKS.
2. 26TH OF JULY REPLACING CTC LABOR OFFICIALS
WITH PEOPLE ON SUGAR CENTRALES WHICH IT CAPTURES.
ae DIAZ, WITH HOS IN cIFRmA WOESTR*, IN CHIROBE OF
THE PROGRAM, eee ee :

"aM 1389 ESS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAT THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.


Tenant CLASSIFIED MESSAGE > 6°"

INTO
3. MANUELIRAY, MRC CHIEF, 1S VISITING SIERRA HAESTRA

FOR CONFERENCE WITH FIOEL CASTRO DISCUSS CASTRO DESIRE
DISSOLVE MRC AND INCORPORATE IT INTO 26TH JULY.

4, SMALL FEU FORCE ACTIVE NEAR COLISEO IN MATANZAS.
ARMS SHIPMENT SEIZED IN CAYO HUESO, FLA WEEK 7 DEC
WAS PURCHASED BY FEU FOR USE IN HAVA, 4, 2

5. GATISTA HAS CONTRACTED FOR SERVICES 2 FRENCH
ARMY OFFICERS EXPERIENCED IN GUERRILLA WARFARE TO
ADVISE CUBAN ARMY, ani-4 ee
SUPDATA: HGS MAY WISH QUERY/PARTJON PARA 5.
DISSEM EB DEF ORALLY, = 8.»
RELEASED 1618352

“END OF MESSAGE

— rieanee
Beene eee peOOUCTION BY OTHER THAN TRE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Ma

