# 104-10066-10076

## Page 1

104-10066-10071

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 D | -C EL

HRK

3

saly

MEMO FOR FILE

SUBJECT C :

OTS (late TSD) and Jim McCord's Cuban Activities

1 Ben Colling phoned to say that one of the fellow in jail

is still around, and after he got out he inquired around and got no

indication that McCord was ever involved. None of the other OTS people

have any recollection of McCord's involvement.

2o. I said that I was sure that the nan tho was rolled up

night not have any idea of MeCord's involvement, if indeed he was

involved. If McCord's involvelement was merely headquarters planniis

and no releasing operation was ever undertaken his role might never

suriace. However, we had been told that planning did involve TSD

people at the time, along with."

ecurity. For instance, I knew that

the Security man with TSD at the time had a job of hand-holding with

the families of the thre men; there may be some ISD record of that.

which would lead to someone who would know.

3o Colling was pulled out of a staff meeting to talk to me ard

said he would call back later.

•SDB

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

6594

---

## Page 2

14-00000

S-E-C-R-I-I

20 September 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

SUBJECT

Summary OilSTEsCALADE - Audid Operation

Against the New China News Agency In Heyana

In May 1959, the New China News Agency (NGNA) opened

an office in Hayana in the El Medico Building which is occupied

partly. by business concerns and partly used for residential apa-tr

ments.

Shortly thereafter, the Havana Station obtained the con

currence of Ambassador Bonsal and Miss Garolyn O, Stacey, 2n

Embassy employee, to mount an audio operatic against NGNA through

the wall of the adjacent apartment in which Miss Stacey lived. " In

November 1959, the FE Division sent one case officer and one ISD

teconician to Havana, and the installation of a miczophone and tape

recorder was completed in Miss Stacey's apartment on 29 November

1959.

By June 1960, it had become evident that two other rooms

occupied by NGNA possibly boused communication equipment aid

were used for cosiezences." At that time

\ FE Division

case officer, went to fiarana and explored the possibility of improving

the operation, He managed to lease an spaziment directly over the.

NONA office, and arranged for a stay-behiza agent to occupy this space.

: З.

In August 1950, a tearn of three ISD techniciaas who were

in Havaza on 2 separate SR Division operation agreed to install the.

additional equipment required for the NCNA operation. A second FE

Division case officer, Pobert Neet, came dova to Havana; and be,

together with the technicians, installed aprobe microphone and tape

recorder in the apartment obtained 3y_

over the NCNA office.

About this time the equipment was removed from Miss Stacay'a

apartment, with the exception of the plastic probe which was laft

in the wall and plastered over.

6592

---

## Page 3

14-00000

S-E-C-R-I-I

4. As an additional security precaution to provida a safe

baven, and after consultation with the Acting Chief of Station, a key

to an apartment in the same building leased by Mrs. Majorie

Lennox, an Imbassy secretary, was cotained, Mes. Lannox was

told that access to her apartment was nesded for photographic

surveillance pusposes.

5. The Station was then faced with the probability that time

and security would work against holding indefinitaly the lease to

the apartment over NCNA since the owners of the building were

cancelling sub-lessors' contracts and recalling leases.

It was,

therefore, decided to install transmitters and switches in order to

permit continued monitoring of the target from a distant listening

post.- Another three-man team of TSD technicians consisting of

David I, Christ falias Carswell), Walter E. Szuminski (alias

Taransky) and Thornton J. Anderson falias Danbrunt, documented

as tourists had been sent to Havana to install audio equipmert in the

Chinese Natioralist Embassy bejore it was due to be turned over to

the Chinese Commuaits.. This operation aborted,. This team was

then sent to work on the installation of the transmitters in the apart-

ment over the NCNA oifice.

6. At 2400 hours on l4 September, Christ, Who with the

other technicians was working in the target apartment, failed to keep

a scheduled appointment with Nest.

At D100 hours on the l5th of

September, the apartment of Mas. Leno: was entered into and

searched by Cuban authorities, and she was iaken inio custody. At

1540 hours on 15 September, Neat, the stay-beriod agent and his wife:

were picked up by the Cuban authoricies and detained.

.:"!

As of today the agent remains in the custody of the Cuban

His wife las been released and is still in Havana. Neet

was aleased 1715 hours lo September and has subsequently returzed.

to Washingion where he is being debriefed. Mrs. Lannox was

subsequently relaased and has also returned to Washingion where she

is being debriafed, The three TSD technicians remain in confinement

They have been saen in confinement out not contacted by an Embassy

officer whan ha first attempted to secure the galeasa of Mrs. Lennox.

Christ was last seen by Neet when they were jointly interrogated

che morning of 15 September,

At that time Christ did not appear

5-2-C-2-E-T

---

## Page 4

14-00000

S-Д-С-2-I-T

to hava been maltreated.

8.

According to articies in the Cuban papers the three

tachnicians were arrested while in the apartment over the NGNA

oifice and completing the installation of the equipment, The

press article adds that the key to Mis.. Lemox's apartment was

found on one of the technicians who identified the apartment to

which it belonged. All Cuban press releasas have referfed to the

men by alias and.have nos. identified them as Government or Agency

employees. It is unclear at present what story had been agreed

upon by the technicians and station personnel to be used in the eveat

they were caught. (While being interrogated with Neet, Christ

indicated that Neet was his boss,

and Neet consistently denied any

inowledge as to why he was being bald,): The sub-lease for the rei

apartment in which the men were caught is in the name of the stay-

behind agert with the original lease being in the name of

-the

FI Division Case Officer.

9. Initial information indicated that the thraa techniciars would

be charged with espionage "'againsi the people of China"... Subsequent

press releases have been unclear on this point. An atterapt by Consul

Hugh Kessler to contect the three men at 1730 hours on 17 September

was unsuccessful.. He was not permitted to see them but was tola

they were in custody.

10. The three technicians travelled to Cuba as tourists under

vasy light commarcial cover, two of them working for a company in

Naw York and the third, one in Baltimore," In each case the cover

company consists of a telaphone answering sestice and a name on the

door. Telephone messages and ¿nail are picked p periodically by aa

Agency contract employes. The men were provided with this cover

as well as uncackstopped come addresses for use when entering or

leaving Cuba as tourisis since the filling out of the landing card

requires this information. Subsequent to their detantion the home

addresses have been partially backstopped so that inquiries will

indicate that someone with this alias name had lived in the apartment

house in question. Insoíar as the cover companies are concerned,

eiforts are being made to provide a backstop to withstand inquiries

from the press shouid the Cubans rereal this incormation. In view

- 3-

---

## Page 5

14-00000

S-I-C-R-E-I

of the thinness of the cover, it is ancertain whether this will succaed.

11. A cleared and vitting law firm in Nay Josk has been briefed

by Mr. L. Houston on the situation with the bought thas inquiries.

received by the cover company could be reierred to the firma of

lawyers from whom no comment would be obtained by the press or

other inquirers. The law firm has bean brieied on the entire situa

tion so that they may be in a positioa to act if any accion by ther

appears desizable or feasible.

It would nos appear that nuch support

oí any kind can be obtained izom the lax fizm or the law fizzas in:

Cuba which are associated with them,

12, Insofar as the families are corcerned, one of the technicians.

is a bachelor presertly on home leave secreen two tours in gapan.

His father, a cook in a diner in the Boston arez, has been contacted

by the Cifice of Security, and he will get in touch with Security if

he receivas any inquiries on this matter, Security, by the same

soken, will keep in touck with him as the Cubans reveal their inten

tions and course of actior.

13.

The wives of the other two technicians have been sold whai

has happaned and are being contacied at least once daily by ISD

staifers and their wives who have been briefed on the situation. A

conference with the two wives was held in ISD on 19 Septamber to go

over the Whole situation and determnice il there vera any personal.

probiems on which the Ageacy could be of help.

Fos the time being

the wives aza telling their zaighbors that theis husbands are ca a

sip. This story will be adjusied depending on vicat course of action

the Cuban Government takes, whether the aliases remain unbroken

and whether recognizable protograpas of the individuals ase raleased

to the press." The two wives so far have taken the bad nevis exceedingly"

Fell.

RUDOLPH E. GOMEZ

Acting Chiet, WH

Districution:

DCI - 2

DOCI - !

DD/P - 1

COPS - 3

1A-5

05 - 3

5-I-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 6

14-00000

20 Septe,-her 1955

02

NEMORA DUM PE STESCALADE

record

There is a jolder of sensitive non-us/ material pertaining to this

oparation, retired under Black Tage wrapping, Job #57-96/73, restristed

to Offices of DCI, DDJI, DDP, C/UH, 0/H/PI, C/WH/S, C/CI, 3/ISD, Direstor

of Security and General Counsel. China Operations is not cited as an

originator, addressee, or into recipient of any of this sensitive

material.'

WH/ RMO

SEGRET.

134 :

065.93

---

## Page 7

14-00000

d..

PELE/SE CONDINCECY OPTIS: 52-2

att''

SERIE DEL MA PESA SESS:

Sectioral dicorautiret

TASK OGGENEATICH

dei. I, 10%5th Speracol E..

Major

Billy Su Cargbel, Fon saler.

J. SITUATICEI:

Lanini I, Crareli (Iliro), Bucees A. Morbead (Alleof end Bimina

R. Taransity (Alluz) de

Cuban authoratieu sa Sepbodhe 195 and teo

Sei.

re Chadr rotease

may conte vichoni advnus nertos di: at a varloty de tarcion lo. Bordas,

Minad, Morino Cary, Suitee lind,

troia, dese, te de sucaricire thai a

contingeny plas to somminene io usu ton anduce dore: 31 os chase

amplayses.

;

The contrchaing Ructor Un Bli Tante on the Colore Erareäure Is

day clars and cost durang tie eatie

ohen

Chuy se "actor esosa".

&. LIGULEE:

Maco da consore ra percole 1200 16: 6008 al 142

2a0: 010000 100000: 2000166/05/00

Mmo3n11an5 a Cho Ceudu2e 161d 10i

Colay.

6594

---

## Page 8

14-00000

Request for black Leanegoss shole

1, Requeus that RELaSE COIRTNOENCI OUtAN 62-2 be implemented.

2. Port dE entrao

3. Dato, lozal tire, anù catiola daniel Jor plas ay.

1o Dableed destination.

5.

Other capuramoss, le,, otruzanion or bulks in the creat

subjecto are bospital carco.

6. Name, organization end slophoca saber or asquasting party.

To Name sed telephoco nueber of lUBiRK extents at loading

and all-inning points.

co Ias pollowing personnel sie Inoulodguable md charged wich tas

responsibillty of actirasing Wild plar:

I. Major Richari I, Stucces, &C/ASD/D0/P

organization:

Ain Suppore E1v1s502, 20/8

Hose Phone:

TE: 3.2:0g

Office Pacre:

Sterfle Nonbees

1B 8 5285,

EX 3-0515

6852, 1564, 7367

Ral Idae 1858

2. Mr. Robsit Marueno

Bis Sugges 145154ea, D1/2

Ears Phose:

JA 1-3599

Offlee Face:

Sars so 1,

Major Billy H. Caschel3, Comerder: Duis 3.

Das. 1, 1015ch Coursonal imalsaen and

Fratring CooD, Elli An Forde Ease, Floridu.

Fore Phone:

662737

Offyee Pucao: Ezlin Air Perce Desu, Moriãa 631590

Major Kensett. I. Burien,

Ca DEfEcer, Debs 3.

Or2901.28836n1:

Das, 1, 1045 Cpirasial. Braluatzon and

Training Cano, Bylis Mr Jorge Easa, Plorida!

Home Paons: 662163

Offles Faste:

Izan Air Touse Euce, Murina 631213

---

## Page 9

14-00000

-3 m

D. Dot: i Surmish 1 Lugh and cred an stesby cacacity 1n11

further nodiao.

Staniay spacity is herain actined as espab: lity 1)

sunition the discreat at any bord of cuiry in cost, said or sauthseat

U. S, From Fostau do Los Angeles sithin 15 here,

asauring the subjecta sili ba released in Farans or Mezica

Chiy, Det, I vill nrepere nassion falders Ser 2lagato Son 103è

arcrabia porte di chory do Tentation una Aviraws Air Festa Base,

03

RICHARD I. SCUMS

0:76:

Cs State

0S

3

3

GLA LENNOL

C/TE

C/TSD

257

-

FED/DOR

---

