# 104-10229-10426

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10229-10426

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SarMOUR WV. RUDIN, M. D.

8000 M. 8. 1179M 89R147

MONTH MIAMI. FLORIDA

AHOMETOB.

MRAVIN H. NaRDsLL, M. VI.

UNOLODY

LIMPINCE WINTON, M. D.

DOI RAOT DATA ATRIST

MIALEAM.

FLONIDA

PHONE SDO.IADA

July 28, 1963

Antonio Macao, M. D.

P. 0. Dox 1808, Mala Ollico

Miamb, Florida

Dear Dr. Macaos:

Ro: (Rigoborto Poros) - 201 file

(Mr. Rigoborto Peroz) was readmitted to Mercy Hospital and cystorcopy.

porformed on the ith of July, 1965.

At that simo, two aroas of recurront

bladder carcinoma were found and doitroyod by oloctrolülguration.

Comparod wilb provloue cystoscoples, tho promont nomination rovealed

conelderablo improvomont, although the progaodia le atlli vory gravo.

Grose hematurla le so bo antistpated for deveral weeke alsor the

cystoncoplo tenatont. and @yatoscopy should bo.ropeatod overy thras

monthe.

You may bo interested in a xeport which wa have rocolved from Dr.

6 John W. Egan of Morcy Hospital following Irradiation therapy given to

M5: Pores)n March, April and May of 1965. A fumor dorage of 5794

'ade was dollvered, representing the maximum cobalt irradiation therapy

which tho patient can colorate.

As you know, we have been concorned that this neoplasm may become

unconirollable by conservative moans, and therefore a radical cystoctomy

wilta supravedical urlnary diveralon has boen recommonded to/Mir. Pores) 6

A ¿ of thla dato, ho has rofured thla treatment, evon though be ubdoretanda

tho serlouspods of bla problem.

I bopo thai the above iaformation will bo holprulio you.

Sinceroly,

He Celiatio

LaWsonco WIDtOD, M.D.

---

