/104-40218-10180)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART II = OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS 70 CASE “PFICER

© approprsate authority on the basse of the be.

write *NA.* If addetional space reqired

CONTACT AN DEVELOPMENT
1. INDICATE WOW, eWEM, ORERE, WHY, AND GY UMOM SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTEO OR DEVELOPED.

muaitsLainstiiedimn

ati tae

fa. INOTCATE WAETHER SUBSLCT COULD OF TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND 1K A 5s
WANOLING. IF 50, INDICATE 10 RHOM,

|e MANNER TO aus RESPONSIBLE CASE OFFICER FOR

= LAST OTWEA CASE OFFICERS WHO WAVE WAROLED SUOJECT OR BHOM WE RNDBS OR WAS YAOBN, GIVE NAMES BY ONICH ThiY WAVE
BEEN KNOWN.

Seas 1050a ve +



;
~~ — -- Bie iiede : ‘ adi
+ . ’ 7 =)
" cic tiiedt, a 3
SECTION It as CCRTROL eee ‘

ible cite evidence. Do wot use stock convent auch aw “antar

ve EStiware suBsect

MOTIVATION,

TO UNBICATE waz CouvaoL, IF Any. ExISTS OVER THE suBsECr. (If no control. oF Gf there 4a a Lach of 6
explain.)

SECTION Hit COVER
1. COVER USED Oy SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MEETINGS.

‘SECTION WW INTELLIGENCE CONWECTIONS AKD TRAINING
TEce TENCE SeAVIER, INDIGATE Toe ERTENF

rr TE ewOWN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION WITW ANY ODER

1S KNOWN oveRTLY.

sucn Counce

To Uist OINcR tuDIviOUALS (Agents, relatives, (rrends) WHO Rude OF SUBJECTS PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

9. EXPLAIN Any TRAINING SUBJECT WAS HAD Im CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.

COLLABORATION POTENT AL

DICATE OTE8 FoREtGy POWER SUBJECT WOULD BE MOST LIKELY TO COLLASCRATE WITH BECAUSE OF WIS 1DEOL y~ O¥ PAST
ASSOCHATIONS. EXPLAIN.



‘SECTION Vi (OPERATIOWAL USE ~ CONTACT.

Ve {7 SUBJECT WAS GEES USED OR CONTACTED BLFOD”, TMOICATE ACTIVITY Im WHICH ME WAS ENGAGED AND THF T¥PK OF INFORe
Tobe SED.

THOICATE @HAT WAS BEEN TOLD SUGJECT AS TO IE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION WE FURNISHES.

; DETAIL SUBJECT#S PROPOSED PP-PM TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

SECTION vi PROPOSED LIAISEN OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY
Ye DETAIL SUOJECT’S PADPOSCS LIS™GOy TYPE CONTACT OR DPERATIONAL USE

AL MERE SUBJECT U5 a8 OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FREI GOVERNMENT:

B. WHERE SUAJECT 1S AN OFFICIAL MLUER OF AN ODYOKE AGENCY.

SECTION VINE ‘AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

EXPLAIN NATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSH
PERSONNEL KNOWN TO SUBJECT.

WUT SUBJECT: 1.E. TRAINEE, OPPOSETE NUMBER: REMUNERA:

|
!
i
t
H
t
}

i
i
i
i
i
|

nia Titan

saat Heber

were tennts tata

ss


i
i

QUALIFICATIONS FOR THER OPERATIONS

MTS. oa QUAL 8H

THDICATE SPECIAL ADILITINS, T

1= POLSESSEO BY SUBIECY enIcH

COULD LONCE IVA BE OF vaLUEy

‘Cone MENTS

1S PROPOSED 10 PAY SUBJECT & MEGULAR SALARY, INDICATE THE @LEKLY AMOUNT. IF PAYMENT TO BE WADE tm EXCHANGE
OTWER METHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

a. EXPLAIN ANY PROMISES, OTHLRAISE WOT COVERED HEREIN, MADE TO SuBseCT. (Exanple: Concitwente regarding evacuation
of subject and famaly >

com

[SECTION XI CE AND SECURITY
fr. twOrcAre tHe FIELD AGENCIES ANO FIELD FILES WITH WHICH SUBJECI“S MAUL HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE BESULIS.

fp. twDveaTl OfnEn INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES Taxtn TO VEmIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURMISMED OY SUBJECT.

fy INDICATE wnETWER OR NOT PROVISIONAL GPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL APs Ta. BATE APPROVAL GB7FInED
PROVAL FOR SUSIECT:S GSE HAS GLEN FREZIDUSLY OBTAINED.

TLETY AND SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE eMERE POSSHALE.

esintttcai tee

fe. EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETION IM EHICH SUBJLCT MAY MAVE BEES INVOLVED an tCH WoST OC EVALUATED FROM A
CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIESPOINT.

sci ¢ close relacionship with LINLUCK,
set's overt (agains article) attacsing the Castro Rugtne has weat ened
posicie nastro followers in Mexico. tic notoricry is als

worth Parade‘ articts ~~

‘SUBJECT’ PERSONAL MADITS
1+ USE OF LIQUOR, ORUGS: GAMBLING, PARAWOURS,

Subject is kuown to drin§ socialiy, (see Hexdgua rters®



SECTION XIN (AVOCATIONAL
Te INDICATE SuBJECT’S wOBDIES OB IWTENEST I SPORTS, MUSIC. ETC:

din the actly in genec

Sapject is inter:

SECTION XIV GENERAL oat

GUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ABE SUCH AS HE COULD PASS AS A NATIVE
THAN HES OWN. CXPLALM,

fe INDICATE mHETHER INFORMATION 16 PRO PARTS 1 AnD 11
SPONDENCE OR OTHER MEARS.

3 OBTAINED GY RESEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSUENT, FILES,

imi Sllndencb aes

OTHER THAN ROUTINE ACTION 15 REQUIRED, IF ANID HHLN TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAIN, (Al¥O
Bee para. 436, supra)

- No -

asa Me Sete

SECTION XV EHERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS

He GIVE FULL DETAILS 1.€. RECOGNITION SIGNALS, 5/m: AMERE COULD CONTACT OC MADE! SWAT DONA FIDES COULD INDIVIDUAL
MAKIMS CONTACT USET

omatact plan is.

pak th

emergent

2 aecic

«

ssi

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

