# 104-10186-10189

## Page 1

104-10186-10189

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION-REPORT.

AINPORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

linin lao mmalas of Una Basionas

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

CS C1-316/00630-85

DATE DISTR.

10 February 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/00252-84

21 July 1964

COUNTEY QUiDe

• SUBJECT Oreste VARELA (al1a8 "Odon").

RETURNTO CL

Background Use Only

DATE Of

INFO.

1964

PLACE &

Washington,

D.

.

DATE ACO DEcember 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

NES IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCR ORADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE,

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service untll Aprll 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information fron the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1. Oreste VARELA, allas "Odon," 1s the Argentine desk officer

in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - Del). He was a former radio announcer.

VARELA

1s a captain in the

Cuban army and was stationed in Habana and

she Sierra Maestra.

was born about 1930, 1s live feet

eight inches

VARELA, a Caucasias 150 pounds, and has short, brown hair. I

tall, weighs

Headquarters Comments

Aside from the information forwarded in the above referenced

report,

this Agency has no additional identifiable information

on VARELA.

8

SECR

E T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

dent tian.

STATE

і лену

NAVY

REP CINCLANT CINCSO I

AlR

INNS

INSA

FBI. 2

NINFORMATION

REPORTAN

WHO RM A

SALON

ALCH/LIA

LE CLINDAL

12 C1/R&A

REPORT

WH. SA ECE 1 NS. SR

WHILE I

352

MH'SL CLE:

RIDLAY

THIN'E

TOTALAH SA & (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

UFGA 19020(9Dec64)

NO PROJECT (AMMUG/1)

CSC1-316/00630-85

1OR4 99

YIBR

---

