# 104-10051-10194

## Page 1

1104-10057-10194

FROM: •

1.

2.

4.

6.

TO

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRE:

(WHEN FILLED IN

4t

RIDI

RIJAN

KJUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NOTE: In the absence of comments or indication of action

taken, this cover sheet will bo destroyed when the

document is filed.

COMMENTS

ROOM

NO.

DATE

RECEIVED FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

MICROFILMED

AUG 2 7 1957

oct

L26935

fusion are human; (873

in hagendous to Neol-quie

rolly are no gente cer the

6-9: Best ave the

see Cose Broom

benches to bey.

9 - 13:

I do not feel that Costille's

explanation of meeting arrangements with

A/5 makes them any more secure than we

had guessed!

His apartment, his car, in

the quiet of the evening!

Para 7 of ref

still obtains - RIS could have become

aware of their meetings & the clandestine

nature of the meetings. Also, I question

the security of dropping her off at the

bus stop nearest her apartment. If the RIS

has seen any of these contacts, the very

meeting arrangements would serve to con-

firm A/5 as an agent of Costille - no normal

boy-girl relationship, if a social one,

would go to these lengths unless there

was a spouse in the background; it would

SR/2/ Suantele

Fiz.

13.

LVE-L

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

RIDIFI

1400L

E-CLOSURE

ABSTRACT

INDEX

DATE MICROFILMED

FORN

1725%)

4610a

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT DATE

ICe. 34

DOCUMENT NUMBER

OFHA- 04132

SEGRERONO DETACHED

0323k901r

awer, com

---

## Page 2

14-00000

4P.

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

DISPATCH

OFHA 4132

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

TO

INFO

Chief,

#WE

Chief, I SN

28-6-2

FROM

DATE

UBJECT

Chief of Station, Helsinkd

REDCAP

ICTION REQUIRED

FYI

: EFERENCE(5)

MICROFILIED

AUG 27 fiêz

DOC. MICRO. SER.

9 October 1959

RE: "43-3"' - (CHECK "X"' ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED.

BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

OFHW 2937,

21 September 1959

Reference dispatch has just been received, and we would like to

bring you up to date on the above relationship:

8o

Follow up to HEIS 312:

During the evening of 4 September,

Golub did not mention his previous proposal to have Subject of DIR

42521 teach Soviet diplomats English.

Subject on one occasion

stated that she was planning to teach English on Finnish TV and

that it looked as if she would have a busy season teaching: Golub

did not pick this up, and the subject was not returned to.

evening was quite uneventful, and it was spent talking about music.

(The Subject of dIR 4252) will be dealt with by separate dispatch.)

Since that evening Golub has only phoned Costille once and this was

on a business matter. Two Americans were in the Soviet Consulate at

the time and were applying for Soviet visas thru Golub. They had prei

viously been in the American Consulate inquiring about the possibility

of obtaining a soviet visa in one or two days.

Costille advised them

to go directly to Golub and make their request, which they did. Golub

phoned Costille to state that he would give them their visas as soon

as they made advance Intourist reservations.

When they did this, Golub

inmediately gave them the visas. Golub's and Costille's pathe crossed

once again on 15 September during a Consular Corps lunch.

This was a

fairly large gathering and Golub and Costille did not have much opportunity

to talk. However, Costille gave Golub two tickets to the forthcoming

Leonard Bernstein concert in Helsinki, as Golub had previously mentioned

to Costille how much he wanted to go.

Golub appeared to be quite grate-

ful for the tickets, and then stated he wanted Costille and Subject of

DIR 42521 to come back to his apartment soon to hear some more good

Mr. Johanan Bein of the Israeli was standing near by, and Golub

extended the invitation to him and wife also. No date was set. However,

from 4 september to the present, Golub has not phoned Costille for lunch,

which is a new record for him,

as heretofore he has called at least once

He has either been too busy, his interest is waning as far as

Costille is concerned, or he is, as Headquarters suggests, planning to

turn Costille over to someone else.

Costille contact with Viktor ZiGArt: If Golud is planning to

turn Costille over to someone else, Zegal seems to be the most obvious.

Zegal has had every opportunity to

date to start the contact, but he

has not picked up the ball yet. As we have mentioned previously,

Costille met Zegal first at the latter's informal cocktail party.

ever, the invitation came through Golub.

Zegal was friendly to Costille

but not any more so than to the others at the party.

At the second

meeting, a Soviet Embassy sponsored informal reception for the American

Embassy, Zegal was again polite to Costille but showed no undue interest

On 7 Septenber, both Zegal and Costille happened to be at the

same sauna party given

by a member of the Netherlands' Embassy.

During

this party the conversation turned to music, and Zegal mentioned that

he had a large American record collection but that records in Finland were

too expensive to buy.

He asked Costille where he ordered his records and

if Costille would mind ordering some for him.

Costille said he would be

glad to. Zegal happened to be at a small luncheon on 10 September given

again by a member of the Netherland'g Fabassy.

At this time Costille

loaned Zegal two record catalogues from which he could make his selections.

Costille has heard nothing to date from Zegal on this.

CLASSFiCATION

10957153

180)

USF. PREVIOUS EDITION

3t-28A AND 51.29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE

Paint di:

SOY CONTINUEC

089N +053497468

---

## Page 3

14-00000

. CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICAION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

OFHA 4132

c. Golub's possible departure fron Helsinki: At the Consular

Corps luncheon on 15 September, Golub once again mentioned to Costille

that he would like to be assigned to New York City and even hinted

that he had been offered the job as Consul at the Soviet Consulate in

New York City. It is known that Golub is studying English in Helsinkd

from a qualified Russian-Inglish language teacher. He also mentioned

that if assigned to the United States, he would be given intensive

language training in Moscow. Costille also asked him if his wife had

returned from Moscow as yet. He waved his hand as if in disgust and

stated that it was a pity but she was never coning back. This

"estrangement" from his wife has never quite rung true to either Costille

or to AE/5. She has never liked the climate in Finland and has been

rather sickly ever since she has been here.

It may be that she is

merely waiting for Colub's return to Moscow rather than move back to

Helsinki. Golub has also mentioned to AE/5 the possibility of his going

to New York and has hinted at his being in Moscow by December.

Golub contacts with AE/5: Golub has been seeing AE/5 about once

a week for their language lesson. AE/5 1g learning Russian, and Golu

(Golub also has a professional Inglish teacher.) During thes

sessions Golub has not once returned to his' conversations of 23 July ir

which he derided Americans of has he made any implications that AE/5

might be reporting on her contacts with him.

AE/5 stated that since this

date the pressure seems to be off and that Golub has never raised his

suspicions concerning her knowledge of Costille or the fact that the

American Embassy had become aware of Golub's contact with AE/5. Golub's

conduct with AE/5 has still been above reproach and not one romantic

overture has been made. Although they still discuss politics, art and

music, Golub couthy has made an effort to keep away from extremely con-

troversial topics and has refrained fron making his usual derogatory

comments about capitalism and the U. S.

When the relationship first

began, he did not hesitate to bring up these subjects. About three weeks

ago, Golub invited AE/5; Iden A and his wife, who are Fulbrighters here

and good friends of AE/5 Pron Stanford University; AE/5'g roomate

(Iden B), Zegal and Nikolay Makeye'

for a social evening in Golub's.

apartment, Golub for sometime has wanted to meet Iden A, who is the

son of a fanous Finnish goverment official now living in the States.

Iden A is here doing research on his father's effect on Finnish politics.

The evening was spent in polite conversation, light drinking and dancing.

2.

As far as contact between Costille and AE/5 is concerned, it has been

kept at a minimun since her REDSKIN trip and she reported that she had met

Golub.

There are no regularly scheduled meetings, the date and time of the

next meeting being arranged at each previous meeting.

Throughout the sumer,

meetings have been held about one in every three or four weeks.

They have

been arranged on different nights of the week. On these meetings AE/5 cones

alone to Costille's apartment after 2000 hours.

University, which 1s in the central part of Helsinki, to Costille's, which

is in a northern suburb. AE/5 also lives in the same suburb about 2 kilometers

from Costille. She, therefore, would take the same bus to Costille's as

she would to her own apartment but would get off two stops later.

After the

meetings, which usually last until about 2400 hours, Costille drives her to

the bus stop nearest her apartment.

Costille has never been to her apartment.

•At no time has any unusual activity been noted outside of Costille's apartment

or near AE/5'8.

For emergency contact, AE/5 has been instructed to phone

Costille at his apartment from a public phone booth mentioning that she has

missed him. She never once has identified herself on the phone.

Aiter the

phone call, she has proceeded to a pre-designated spot in the same suburban

sarea where Costille meets her with his car.

They then proceed to the outskirts

zof town.

She is dropped off in the same suburban area.

The meetings have

usually lasted approximately 30 minutes.

No surveillance has ever been de

This has only been done three or four times.

The same procedure is

used when Costille wants to see AE/5 before the next scheduled meeting.

Costille has only phoned AE/5 twice, and this was in late May during the

REDSKIN debriefings. Ab/5 has been with Costille overtly only three times

Tokm

10:57.53-0

(40)

USE-PREVIOUS-EDITION.

REPLACES FORMS

51•28. 51.28A AND 51•29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

CLASSIFICATION

XOX CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2

---

## Page 4

14-00000

..CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

MBOL, AND NO.

OFHA 4132

OFHW-GE

since AE/5 arrived in Finland last January.

The first occasion was in

March at AEPAWNEE/3'g apartment.

This was the first time Costille met

AE/3's roommate (another Fulbrighter), and two Finnish students

vere there (Subject of OFHA 3811, Para 2, line 2; and Subject of OrHA

3914). The next time was in April when Costille took AE/5 out to dinner

and recruited her for the REDSKIN trip.

The third time was at a large

American Embassy reception in September for exchange students. Costille

talked with AE/5 for about 5 minutes there.

This brings us to the issue of Golub's motives and intentions re-

garding AE/5. By Golub's actions on 23 July, reported in OFHA 4032, it

seemed that he was on the way to a recruitment pitch. However, since that

date he has eased off the derogatory comments about Americans completely

and seems to be satisfied in his meetings with AE/5 in discussing art, music

and non-controversial political topics.

Il he had any suspicions about AE/5

before 23 July, he has not raised them since in his conversations with her.

Golub must realize by this time that an out-and-out cold recruitment pitch to

AE/5 would be futile.

Even though liberal minded, AE/5 in their discussions

has been critical of the Soviet system and has strenuously defended capitalism.

If he is attempting to get her involved in a romantic relationship whereby

he could exercise some emotional control, he has moved very slowly.

nave stressed before, he has not made one romantic overture to her. If he

did, he would be most definitely rebuffed.

We do not want to turn this

into a "Dear Abby" letter, but feel that Golub may be suffering from a

father complex.

Golub and his wife have been unable to have children, and

he has mentioned that he would desperately like to. Whenever he talks about

this he becomes noticeably distressed.

Golub appears to be attracted to

younger people. This was the case with his former assistant in the Soviet

Consulate here, Mikhail Lyubimot, who was a young, intelligent, cultured

Soviet. Golub frequently refers to Lyubimov mentioning how much he Liked

him, what good friends they were, and how much he misses him.

attraction to AE/5 started when Lyubimov left. So given what we know about

Golub's personality, we do not think it too strange that he "likes her for

her mind." We admit that if Golub had the opportunity he would cortainly

attempt a recruitment or some other form of embarrassment; but we also believe

that his feelings are such toward AE/5 that he would continue seeing AE/5

long after his operational interest had died down. We have not forgotten

the fact that Golub is a shrewd intelligence operator. From the outset of

the AE/5-Golub contact, we instructed her to use extreme caution, that Golub

was more than a Consul, and that behind this friendly and gregarious nature,

there was a calculating, diabolical individual, and that she should at all

costs avoid letting herself be put in the position where she would be sus-

captible to any form of blackmail. She was told that above all she should

do nothing to indicate to Golub any contact with any American official.

Because of this we have refrained from giving AE/5 any "requirements" to

elicit from Golub believing that personality data would just come out

naturally We have never given AE/5 any canned responses to political

questions that Golub might raise feeling that she was clever and well-read

enough to answer on her own. We did not want to give Golub any impression

that she was being briefed on what to say and to ask.

apartment and has never met her roommate,

exchange student in the United States during the 1957-58 academic year.

Although AE/5 did not know the roommate before, the arrangements for sharing

the apartment were made before AE/5 came to Helsinki.

AE/5 in the fali of

1958 met another Finnish exchange student at Stanford who was a friend of

Identity B and put AE/5 in touch with Identity B. Identity B did not meet

Golub until the evening described in para lod. above.

AE/5 stated that

Iden B is very anti-Russian as she was born in what is now Soviet Karelia

and was forced to leave her home during the war.

She has told AE/5 that if

she was ever seen out in the company of a Soviet she would automatically lose

many of her Finnish friends. She has often cautioned AE/5 about being seen

out in the company of a Soviet diplonat too much.

Identity B was extremely

reluctant to attend the social function in Golub's apartment, but finally

CLASSIFICATION

•SOM

10.57:530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORMS

51•28. 51.28A AND 51-29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

XOS CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

3

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

FICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

OFHA 4132

OFAW.

consented to go when she heard other Americans were going to be there.

admitted that she was curious to meet Golub also.

There are no Station or

HBFINCH traces on Identity B.

We agree with Headquarters that we do not have much to be gained

the continuation of this contact.

Our dossier is pretty well filled

with bio data on Golub as it is, and if he wishes to defect, which we doubt

considerably, he won't need her help.

However, we feel that to have AE/5

completely pull a reversal and stop the contact would only arouse his

suspicions that she may be receiving instructions from some outside source.

Since Golub now has stopped his original provocative tone toward AE/5 and

the Soviet interest in Costille has slowed down, at least for the present,

perhaps it would be better for AE/5 to continue seeing Golub, as long as he

does the inviting, until she leaves Helsinki. (Her stipend runs out in

January.) Since school is in full swing her free time will be limited, and

she will have more of an excuse to slow down her contact with Golub.

willian Contie

William

Costille

9 October 1959

Distribution

DaWE w/Idens u.s.c

• 2 = Hels

FORM

10.57.53a.

40;

USE PREVIQUS EDITION.

TREPLACES FORMS

Sly& 91014 AND 549

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

CLASSIFICATION

A PAGE NO

CONTINUED

---

## Page 6

14=00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATH SYMBOL AND NO.

S/c Artackment to

OFTA 4232

IDFETITY A:

AUG 271032

DOC. MICRO. SER.

IDENTITY B:

Talovi do HOLSTI

Faze addresss: 309-8 Strniora V1llago

Stanford, California

Ages

Kassied

Son of Rudolph Folati, pre-mas Finnish

Fortiga Minister

Sisko Harjatta SIMITA Timova as Marjatta

Sim 72)

DOB:

26/32/27 - Jasiddra, Karalla, i

"CLASSiFICATION

10$7 53a

(A0)

15 Previous 201l01

REPLACES FORMS

51-28, 51-28A AND 51-29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

IPAGE NO.

JCONTINUED

---

