(104-10186-10131) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use O!
Do Not Rep

mone

en

QA TOL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tals material contains information affecting the Netlonal Defense of the United Mates wtinta the meaning of the Explodage Live, THg
1 UOC. Boca 183 and TH, the trenamlaion OF revelation of Which In any mane te ea unsutheriend Perce le probivited Oy Jaw,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISqEu

eee

countmycuba 5 i mromt No, CSC1-316/01213-64
‘SUMECT Arsenio FRANCO Villanueva pare ste = «16 September 1964
: : NO, PAGES 2
REFERENCES: ;
ate oF 1964 a
INFO. 1

pace & Washington, D..C. : {
DATE ACQ.September_1964 : i FIELD REPORT NO. . {
z THIS 1S UNEVALUATED._INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINGS ARE OLFINITIVE APPRAISAL OP CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE.
SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964. : r

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
“information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the
individuals mentioned in tho personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

ARSENIO FRANCO Villanueva holds the rank of captain and is

Chief of the Patrol Section of the Departamento ¢e Sgeyr dad
del Estado (Department of State Security - DSE). 12,374,

Heacquurters Comments
1, Ina report dated 1 December 1961, an untested source said
that sometime in 1960 he joined the MRR and was assigned té
the Sabotage Section under Jorge Francisco DIAZ. His MRR F
group was penetrated by a captain of the Kunicipal Police

of Habana, Arsenio FRANCO Villanueva. FRANCO reported the
groups activities to G-2 during the Playa’ Giron landing.

2. -In a report dated 2 October 1962, an untested source provided
a list of G-2 agents, Communists and individuals connected '
with the Communists. Included on this list was Arsenio
FRANCO, alias "El Galldgo," who was reportedly a captain in
G-2, “Source said he was born about 1937, was between 150
and 160 pounds, about six feet tall, had a white complexion, ,

brown’ hair, and green eyes.

.

3. An(officiai)travel manifest revealed that on 5 October 1962, fa
Arsenio FRANCO Villanueva, an active Communist Party member, © 4
Kod 3

SECRET aprmemarsiryeer att :

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

State Tow. ‘Atay Travy Taw Tas THxx __loce ¥BIL_@
_REP__CINCLANT__CINCSO #  ILNS.

Tote: Fieid datibution Indicated by “#™)



” Jeo years

a SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM - CSCI-316/01213-64

arrived in Madrid from Habana. He was greeted at the airport by
ESTEVEZ, an employee. of the Cuban Ewbassy in Madrid.

A member of a group of Cuban enigres trained in the techniques

of information collection and who have provided useful réports for

id, in a report dated 14 May 1963, that Arsenio FRANCO
Villanueva, a Cuban Police Captain, was a member of the Cuban

Delegation to the San Paulo-games,.

An untested source.in a report dated 4 May 1964, said that Arsenio
‘sas a captain in the Departamento de Seguridad
del Estado (PSE) and in charge of all DSE patrol cars in Habana.
His office was located at Las Maristas, La Vibora, Habana. FRANCO,
a Sierra Maestra veteran and formerly a Habana municipal police
captain, was transferred to the DSE in 1963. He is married and his

———wife works at the municipal JUCEI in Habana. They live on 26th

Street, Miramar, Habana; a block from "Che" GUEVARA. FRANCO had

@ reputation for ruthlessness and smoking marijuana cigarettes.

Source described him as Caugasion, born about 1938, six feet tall, ¢
160 pounds, dark complected, with dark eyes and brown hair.

SECRET 1
NO FOREIGN DISSEM =
