{104-10210-10003+=—en{ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 [~=™ror™

SECRET
TEQUESTING OFFICE CONTROL NO. DATE OF REQUEST : :

29 Mareh_ Gh. Z

“| bue DATE
Want OF REQUESTOR ALTTGNATE CRGRNEATION AND Ocation TeaneNsiON | eate nee
Mr. Stu2rt Duncan sr/cI ) 7732 a arcis
REQUEST RECEN FERRED FOR ACTION TO ba NAME
SECTIONS; 1 Of cavPTo

+ Bowanke nee
‘Ds Bowanko | PROJECT OFFICER:

aa iasoessaaeaneoapanOAL
TPE OF SUPPORT AUTH >) Cr] CA

“REQUEST (inciude type of toms, pumber of stems, purzose ems will serve, dae

fee For documentation information on te Soviet Stateless Identity

“ Docurent (VID 1A ZEITEL'STVO V SSSR DLYA LITS "EZ GRAZ? STVA) requestor
is interested in available information concerming the besis, imsudnce and use of
tiis docwment.

The infomation provided by TSD/AP is to be used in tie analysis of’ biozraphic
information, including that taken from docunents wiich are currently not available
to KUBARKs :

Data provided TCD/AB concerning the bearer of subject document and the document
i | dteelf follows:

1. Subject document s-rial Noe 311479 was issued in Moscow during lete 1959
or g# early 1960.
RECORD OF ACTION 7
2. Bearer resided in Hinsk from 1960 to mid 1962.

3. Bearer traveled to Moscow in July 1961.

: kh. Subject document was retained by bezrer until January 1962 when he was
issued a Soviet Alients Idertity Document (VID A ZHITAL'STVO V SS°R DLYA I! OSTRAVTSA)«

Sufficient information w2s provided vertaliy to meet the requestor's im-ediate

needs (a 25 March deadline). This present request is to coafim the information
passed verbally and to fill in the gapse

signature: _. “SY an D Ene
aster pt Yuk + : -

|

|

i -

fPA08 an. 631 SECRET | aces tem evene
; dewegretan nt tron
e



of TSD/AB ca 23 and 25 Merch 1963.

SECRET

AB MEMO No. 679k
6 April 196k

MEORANTUM FOR: ChieZ, SR/CL
ATTENTION 1 Mr. Stuart Puncaa

euasrer : Documentation Inforuntien concerning the coviet
Stateless Perron's Identity Document (VID NA
PHTIEL' CTO V SSSR TYA LETS BEY, GRWZUEANSTVA)
=-Cane 4630

FOFEREMCE . : Your Oral Requect for TcP//B support on 20 Harch 1964

1. This nenorandua and attachment confirms the infonmtion
pascod verbally to Me. Dmceu of SR/CI by Mr. Dovanko and ii. Bagel

‘a a ‘ °
2. Please aign the attached request for TCD/AB Support Fora
(D-208) and return to this office.

3. If TSD/AB camsents are Leing considered for further
distribution, 1t jo requested that the tranmitting correspondence
de coordinated vith this office.

4, Any questions on this matter can be referred to Meesrs.
Bovanke or Bugel, extension 2054, 222 vect Out Building. —

AGBIN N, SPRCIGIAS
curr, Tan/oa/As

Attachment: os stated

Dietritutionr
Original ond 1 ~ Addressee, v/att.

<1> AB Case 4630, w/att.
1 ~ AB File, w/att.
1 - AB Chrono, w/att.

DD/P/TSD/AB/1:D. Bowanko:prk

SECRET



a a ee ca i a A a as ae

Attochnent to: 44 Memo Ro. 6794 -

TED: COMEHTS ON TE SOVIRT OTA
MEN? (VID NA CHITEL'SiVO V

LEST PGi'S “IDENTTPY LOcu- i
RODINA LETS S22 OUAZHDARSTVA) f

3. These caments.cre tesed on an annlysis.of 15 exemplars, - i +
: (4 originals, 2 complete photocopies, O pages of a third Thotocow : ¢
' end 2 pores eoch of the remaining photocopy exemlars), {esced in
4 seven (7) different ervas of the soviet Union between LL Jenunry
lgl4 end 1 March 1060, end on Limited docwauntetion intelligence :
information.

Cnly tvo of these e-erplare vere iasued in Moscow, the area
of Sscusnee in your case. Mo information is availeble on the use
of thie documcnt in Minsk. (aly thie (3) oftte aveiloble
exemplars were issued crter early 1957.

i

2. It 1s epparent therefore, that a thorough study of this
docunent is not possible, capecislly ss pertrine to a specific

area. Hovever, certein general informetion.cocs becone clear and : H 7
46 presented in the folloving commentar : I

@. ‘The document currently in une has 4 tan-colored
stiff paper cover (card board type) end ia approximately $5:2am.
‘The state veal on the front cover contnins 11, 16 er 15 bands
depending onthe .gomak.(printing.yeer)....The .scal. and..vor’s: VID
BA ZIITL'STvO V SER TEYA LITS are printed in black ink; the
words BEY GRAZAUISIVA are in blue ink. ‘the docwent contains 12
rembered pages plus the inside back cover. The undertint is a red,
Pink: end blue repset pattern done by. the Saml process. ‘The text 1
d@-printedin bleck ink, Thu vords' BE7 GRATNIVACTYA are printed in 7
dius ink from bottom to top of each page. Uni:ke the other tvo H
internal identity documents (PASPORT end VID lA 7HTTEL'STVO DLYA H
IBT@TRANTSA) uscd in the Soviet Union no regulations or instructions
i are included in subject docwient. It contains everything included i
gin the foviet PASPOPT plus additional informtioa on the bearer, i

‘and epparently serves the game purpose. The bearers of subject i
i document appear to be subjected to a more rigid control then normal t
|

PACPORT bearers.

| Seestnieterasasitiegiecee



coon ne imi niet in thm A Me OCB A SMAHONY ENS I COLE AAEM A Ae

SECRET

Attechment to: AR Heme Ho. 6708
Page -2

‘Thies document 1s epparently used to control the so-called
“stateless” ( OUAZTDANSTVA) Population of the Foviet Union.
AUSTIN ea used here probably acoos "without
foviet citizenship” rethcr than the normal vestern meaning of
the tem "ateteless”,

>. For issuance of subject documat en spplication

is mimitted to OVIR, (Visa and Regiotretion rection) or to PFO
(Pasportao-itenistratsionnyy Otdel - Passport Hegiatretion Section)
of the UM (Upravientye Militeii) or UVD (upravlentye vutrennikh
Del). PRO executes GVIR functions in thoes wrens vithout an CVIR.
These cryans mre all subordinate to the HYD (Ministry of Internal,
Affeirs). OVIR is responsible for the documentation control of
ell foreigners in the foviet Union except forciyn officials. ‘There
ere ne avetluble exemplars of subject document vhich reflect the
reorgeni7ation of the MVD into :0P (‘tnistries for the Protection
of Puti:c Omer) which took place during August end September 1962.

c. Subject docusent is initially made valid for ane (1)
year. ‘The mumber of extensions permitted ie unknown, however,
since the quarterly registraticus everege four (4) per page, pages
6 end 7 vould te Sull vithin tro years, thus permitting only ore
extension, The serial .ncbere of simtlar.documents vhen given-es..
basis of issuance also givea credence to this theory, Finally, of
the exemplars which hed been extended, aone vere extenfed more than
once. The benre> mist register vith OYIR every three (3) soaths.

ad. The mrber of excaplers precludes a finel determine
ation ef the serial numbering syeten used in subject docmmnts.
It 19 possible that the block cyctom 1s used, i.e. a olock of 100
or 1000 pre-numbered documents with the corresponding pre-mmbered
fiscal stemps might be mxpplied to OVIN or PhO offices for issunnce
in their areas. ‘hese mipplies would ve replenished with eddition-
@l blocks when necessary. ‘The fill-in of the document probably is
mafe locally. All serial mmbers ere preceded by the letter "P"
(significance unimoun) and contain six (6) digits.

SECRET



a a ea er

SECRET

: Attechment to: AD Heri do. 67g
i Pege -3

The serial nuaber furnished by ltr. Puncen, 311479, of a Moscow
fesued VID HA AUEL'SIVO V SSSR ELYA LITS.32% GRAZEOASOTVA in
early 190 cennot ve necurctely checked. ‘Dre lntest exemplar serial
number {esued in Moscow by “OVIR Uprnvl. Milite!t gor. Moskvy £
Yoszovekoy ob1." (GVIR of the Hascow city nad Noscov ol:last Militia
Aeminictretion) on.4 June 1995 is P No. 2h22%6,

The terrer who reportedly retained this decuent until Jemary ¢
1962 while residing in Minek would Nove lind. to register his docu-
nent every three months and extend it in early 1961. ‘the beurer's
trevel to Hoseov in July 1961 should have been recomled on page 4
or 5 of hie docusnt, although just hov rigidly the controls vere
exercined et that tine commot be cetermmined.

It 1 recocmonied thet this dociuent, seriol mesber 311479, be
evomritted to T4D/AB for @ Cl enalysis.

@. The following are the contents of the 11 pages of
subject document in the order they sppear on cach page:

Pege 1 - Validity; surname; first nane end patronymic; i i i

i feauence suthority; photograph of beorer in : !
lower left corners cerial mmber ve right of

Photograph; cuthenticnting cachet partially

over photogrephy end a line for bearer'n

Bigneture.” (some exemplers.vore.not signed).

Pegs 2+ ~=—s Data on the bearer.
1. Date of birth (either year only or camlete

Gate).
i 2. Place of birth. \
! 3. Rationality. . !
i

: 4. Wnence an@ date bearer arrived in the USSR.
! 5. Profession and type of vork.

SECRET

en


Poge 3

SECRET

Attachuont to: AB Hewo Ho. 679%
cisesrtien Page <5

6. Pemily status.
7. Inst citizenship.

A fiscal stamp bearing the docuaent serial neser

ia attecked below these seven (7) questions. A
validating signature of the chicf of the militia
eeniniatretion usuelly eppears te the right of the
fiscal otemp, ‘The eer euthenticating cachet ued
om pege one (1) is effixed over fiscel stamp ead
signature. he date of issuance eppears in the love
er right corer and the ccrinl maser appeers et the
botten of the page.

- The neme, ace, relationship ami documeut besia
for inclusioa of percoas included in besrer's
documeat sre listed on this pege.

Pogea Send 5 - Have eight (8) spsces per poge for entries,

with velicsting oignature and cachet plua
the dnte, permitting the bearer to roside
ins given eres. ‘The velidating simature,
at least in the Moccoy iseued excuplar in
thet of an OVIK official. Travel. to.other
cities is also reflected here, Tvo (2) of
the aveilable exenplers sho travel. In
ench case a residence permit entry is nede
before leaving onc trip. This extry
includes.a length. of..stay-deedline.
one of there tvo excuplars, (the pre-Korld
Wer Il exexpler reverred to above), snother
entry ves onde upon return to ploce of
Feeidence.

Ths serial number also appears at the bottom
of page 5.

continued/

SECRET

co anni apie renmontarioriee a tnnliebsNp vied pam ei eienGa engenders niente nite naan at mam ec En

ete



areinnarobin snes sin estar camden eee at weno noe mime i ttn nen nent en Meet oe:

Pages 6 and { -

Peges 8 and 9

Pages 10 end 12

(Hote: Some of these entries oni cechots may appear on the vrong page.)

SECRET

Attachment to: AB Hemo io. 6794
Page °5

Are for quarterly registration. entries.
‘These entries indicate registration end
date of next quarterly registretion.

. fometines place of registration is

ineluded in the handvritten entry. lL
fuch registrations appear above tie
signature of an GVIN officiel or OVIR
representative.

Are for normal militia or OVIR residence
registrations and dercgistratioas.

> Ave for “spectel remarks" including
employment cachcts, and document
ynlidity extension for one (1) year.
hese extensions are validated by
oviR.

The goznak oppears at the bottom of
page ll,

