# 104-10163-10148

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10163-10148

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUSTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

Fill' in Sect. 2.

on back. Dotach back

flap and forward to RID.

2. Desiroy front cover sheet, unless it

records

significant action taken or

comments requiring preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If filo no. and title shown are not

proper, insert proper file no. below

and forward document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

WH/4 REGISTRY

TO

1.

TH/4 REGISTRY

ROOM

DATE

ORPICKN'В

MO.

RECEIVED

FOrWARDED

INITIALO

21 APR 1961

zet

COFY DETAGNED

Lepesta

Sockefe

Report

Action, pany.

10.

вігр.

12.

73.

14.

18.

10.

17.

W/A SIGISTLL

RID/71

TRACE

REGUEST

AMETRANT

IND&N

9954

6100 сне рачислю

FILE TITLE

PILE RUMOGA IRAINAAY CHOES

241 - 2.51619

DOCUMENI DATE

DOCUMENT NUMERE

18 APR 1961

UPGA 01291

"SECRET

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

Chief, WHD

i CATER SURAHOL AND NO

UFG-A-1291

MBADQUARTERS FILE NO.

TO

INFO

FROM

Chief of Base, JMWAVE

SUBJECT

Transmittal of AMCLATTER-1 Memorandum

ACTION ROUTE lease see paragraph 3

EFERENCEISI

DATE

GRAB 1909

RE: "43.3" - (CHECK "X" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIPEO

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

Attached 18 a memorandum submitted by AMCLATTER-1

on 5 April 1961.

A translation follows:.

for

"I received a request from DI. JOse R. ANDREU

assistance in obtaining a visa for his great-

nephew, young Eladio DIAZ Salas, 17 years old, who

18 now in Jamaica and who wishes to come to this

country to join the Army of Liberation. Young DIAz

Salas is in contact with Father ROPER.

His address

183 3 Worblington Ave., Kingston 5, Jamaica, tele-

phone 78-1787.

"DI. ANDREU, former chief of the Partido Demo-

crata in Cuba, father of Jose (Pepito) ANDREU who

Is In the camps, is an outstanding leader of the

opposition to the Castro regime."

2o Action to ve taken on this request 1s left to the

aiscretion of Headquarters.

03

PAUL

enen

12 Apr11 1961

Distr1but1ons

- Headquarters, w/att.

2 - Piles, M, att.

V/BR

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

261-25168?

14N 88

UN PREVAID ALAINIA

SOMALDS NORLA

11+881-298 89898129

WITH ARE EAGANIS

CS Con

CLASSMATE, T

полетт

PAGE NO.

---

