# 104-10069-10120

## Page 1

1222A

1104-10069-10120

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1070-101 гоям мо. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Chief, Contact Division

ATTN: Support Branch (Crowley)

FROM : Chief, Minneapolis Office

SUBJECT: Cuban Refugee Group

SECRET SENSIT

77

DATE: 31 August 1962

1.

Enclosed are three names provided by

of Cleveland, Ohio.

These apparently are the leaders of the

uban group which vou and I have discussed in some detail

For the recora,

ot in touch with me because we ha

some rather extensive debriefing sessions in 1959,

and

apparently he prefers to continue that relationship for the

present.

Headguarters' records will show, however, that

he was interviewed by Gene Rittenburg In September 1960.

2. The Cubans listed on the enclosure are the leaders

of & small group which is shuttling back and forth to Cuba

for the purpose of establishing reception groups, taking in

nedical supplies, ammunition and weapons, and to bring out

other Cubans who wish to leave the country.

As you know

fron our discussions, they are seeking help in the form of

supplies, etc.

understands that no help will be given

without

some measure of control by our Agency, and he

agread to provide the names for Agency consideration. The -

third man on the list is

In Cuba at the present

time.

specifically requested that we treat any on-the-street

investigation with great care.

3. Please expedite any checking you might do and rive

me your expression of interest as soon as possible.

06

1s not an exceptionally patient man, and I certainly expect

to receive an inquiry from him in the near future.

I belleve

he 13

genuinely motivated and quite capable, and in his

present position of recruiting executive personnel for

he coula be quite useful to the Agency.

Zhion A Sando I 164

VERNON R. SANDO

1019/62

70162

VRSando/gr

Enclosure

SECRET

SENSITIVE

W828

05896

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SUET Bung

Rodrigues

soreno

Service Station

Shores;

Florida

Caurean

1579 02-

LamI

on

algustin

Batiota

Panegue

Age 12.n

Former July, 20tn Comande

Presently. in Cuba:

PROVE FORKLEASE 1993

JANSTORICAL ETE PROCRAM

словин 82%

---

