# 104-10120-10054

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10120-100543 oR 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

•Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FIle

FROM

Research Officer, PSD

SUBJBCT:

HUNT, Everett Howard, JI. - 135576

DATE: 27 April 1956

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

DO NOr Reproduce

1. Mr. Dietrich, SSD, has advised that there is no record in

SSD in regard to the wife of the Subject, Dorothy Louise Goutiere

Hunt (#35576).

03

2. Mr. Rady, IE, has been contacted in the matter and has tried

to obtain the communications, referred to in the 11 April 1956 dispatch,

(laron or to Japan, but has been unable to locate several, and one of

the numbers is apparently a wrong number. Mr. (Rady)is following up 0ì

on this and will advise as soon as he obtains definite information

in regard to the use of the wife of the Subject in her employment at

the Argentine Embassy, [Tokyo, Japan.

3. Mr. Rady referred the undersigned to Mr. Hayden Estey,

extension 2231, 1028 "K" Building, for further information. Mr. Estey

was Chief, IT/NA from May 1955 to December 1955. Estey was aware that

the wife of the Subject was employed at the Argentine Embassy as of

May 1955, and was of the opinion that she had been so employed for a-

period of time prior to this. Estey, in his position, was aware that

the wife of the Subject was employed by the Argentine Imbassy and

recalls that the Subject advised Estey about this employment. It

was his recollection that he saw a certain communication, or comunica-

tions, which indicated that Headquarters had advised against the

full exploitation of the employment of the wife of Subject at the

10 Argentine Embassy, Tokyo, Japan, but that Headquarters had Indicated

that a limited exploitation was permissible. Estey advised that

Mr. Carleton Swift would be more knowledgeable of the above because

of his previous position and longer service in Japan.

11

But the

-

SECRET

---

