“'404-10163-10126) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
iimer, hice i

; Selves.

4 duly 1004

SGWORAMLUM FOR: Director of Tratatag

ATTAHTION 4 Chief, Covert Tratétag/operstious school

SUBJECT "  Kequest_for Covert Trainiag of : 5
ANCLA’ 2 (201-251889)

1. IS ie requested that full tine covert traiaiag be
provided im tie New York City aroa for a five wees perioa from
80 July to asproxiaately 21 August 1984 tor Bubjeat.

2. The training should provide a full trececratt ccurse
including agent acquisition bloc with asecial eapbuaais on coa-
tact ana intelligeace revorting, axerct: im syrvetllasce,

| esanter surve?llaace, cead drop aad personal meotings, coupre-
hensive provies ia spotting, doveloping aau vecruitiag ageate.
We alno desire cetailed evaluations of the subject's perfsraance
for all phases sf tug tratoiag.

 pB
a

3. AMCLATTEZR-1 has beea a full tise contract agent siace :
@ April 1960. Se was tore ia Havana, Cuba, oo 17 Harch 1817 to 7
auerican eitinen parents. Se serves as a Captain ia the ¥.3.
Alp Force in Sorid War 12. He inat bis U. eltizeaship ty .
accepting enploynent im 1980 with tbe Cutan police; but, bowever, Z
61d eet acquire Cotaa aatiosality. A b111 to rentore bis U.3. {
eitizenahip was entered in the 83rd Concress by Coagreseaaa
Wiliters of Seu ‘sey. However, his filo does aot disclose
whathor tizeaship was Frestured.

&. A Covert Security A>proval ons granted on ® May 1960
(eee C1/04 £110 avaber C 76870). AMCLATTEN-1 bas bees poly-
gTaphod euccensfully. Ctbher Snvemtigations mace by Ju¥AVE
Teeultod 1 so derogetory isfornmation being discovered.

TTER-1 ig a JhVAVE Station aaget ta the area of political

ection sad gesoral coatact with Cutaa exile sroupe ard individual
Perncaslities.

5. The objective ef the requested traiaing is te improve
his tradecraft techaigzes. :

Me ta svare that be in tn contact with tte Acenee,

|
RETURN TO CIA |
Use Only {

Oo Met Reproduca |

+” a



7. As be is completely bilingual, there is ne need for aa
iaterproter's services.

@. Thi neacbencua will cosfira toi¥onone conversations
tetween Ur. Batsten Tazlor), Br. [Reg Augustine] o£ CC/A05/Ta and
Er. Charles J: Yrancis, /¥H/S3; who be act BE Ae responsibis
8 Hencquarters case efficer, oztension 1678, vous Gf 8608.

Dessoad FitsGeraia
Chiez
Cestera Esnlsphere Vivisics

CONCURRENCES:

Tho LaF Yrataiag sad Gualifi> 5 Bate

ations Review Officer

BOO /OE/CTPrancia:mac (6 daly 1964)
| Bietributions

\

|
|
|
is Conater Tatelligesss iat nis
l

UB

