CIA

an peered wrens sey
(04-10193-10014, (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 he only
re 2 : chet albeit
Oia een Do Not Reproduce
' " ; 6

Li.

. a ial Ee coe | . . .
: ; “GRA = Asz.
15 April 1962

Chief, Task Force/w
Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Operational/GYROGE
Rotline fran Cuba,: Las Villes

ATTENTION REQUESTED: PA/KVIVBE

may

REV: CKA-152 and 153, 15 Ape 63, A dm hy Me ind,
Anorey A-12595931, born

1. On 12 April 1962,‘Jose Antex
Paes 20 Aprt I Baltolone, Las Vi} ter“Living in Estacion Dolores,
Villas); Miam{.address: Refugee Center, was intervieved. °

2. Source said that he fcrmerly. belonced to the MER in Estacion
Dolores and that "El Chino" vas his leader. About 3-l months ago, "EL
Chino" was arrested and {fs still in jail. Since thie tine, the MRR in
Estacion Dolores has been operating witliout any leader. Source Jett
Cube _by small dont, and the reason for hie leaving, he said, was because
Foie Palecivs, an MRR menver,’ vas arrested and taken to the paredcn.
When Palacios was paced before the paredon, he broke down and confessed
end implicated the source and others in counter-revoluticaary activities.
Palecios vas released and source flea. 7

3+ Source satd that shortly Lefore "El Ciluu” was arresied, tie NAR
was to receive some arns fron'"Yayo" Estevez in Miomi. On the day on vhich
they were to make the“pickup at sea, their boat vas confiscated by the
goverment. 7
of
e

4. Source said he was able to leave Cuba by small boat because ‘th:
boat vas obtained throvsh{Pedry Barretojof Caibarien. He said that Fears DY
is anexber of.the Caibarien KER and obtained the: services of two: other N
nembera,.(Romen\RojaS\and his brother (name unknown), vho ere fishernen,
menbers of the MAR did also nilictanos. In the course cf a fishing trip
they took a boatload of escapees (including the-source) to Cayo Fragoso.

The escapees hid in the mangrove swanps and the brothers fished:()}
A cuban. patrol cene by and talked to the(RoJas| brothers, but soon vent
avay)'{ThefRojas)brothers then picked up’ the @scapees and tock then to

left then-there and then returned to Cuba. ;| Barreto): DY

Cayo ila, 1
and the(Rojes|brothers ere now in Cuba.

5+ Source is a cripple (he has a leg which appears withered), but
nevertheless, he volunteered to go back into Juba in any caracity which is

needed. :

an Chel heey

wil

Lk SER BIEL

$16
