# 104-10219-10093

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10219-10093

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECKET

G.

ISFia page 5 par raph 33(2), Subject's acquaintance

TaTara ¡ALODOVA in her rascars Vasili; "Eisuv. There are no traces

ISPia page 7, paragraph 101, Subject's acquaintance Lev

GROZOISNTY.

There are

nO Liates on GROSGISKIY.

ISPit page

Tatyana ZAREDSKAYA.

ager are ra tra 13, Suoject's acquaintance

*ZUREESKAYA, Tatyana

SEX:

D03: C1929

P33: LES?, iSoscor

CIT: USS?

CCC:

Dentist

LOC: USSR, MOSCOW

Jewish and a Party sericer.

a Party 201-92653 Sarict is a desceo rusband Petris.

She is considering emigrating.

ISPXD page 8, paragraph 10D, Subject's acquaintance Galina

SERGEYEVA.

There are no traces on

*SERGEYE, Calina

SEX:

L0B: C1952

FOB: USSR, "'oscow

CIT: USSR

OCC: Secretary

Knom to 201-926536.

foreign black student.

9265 be Farmer t ot beta a bit deal iFs. a

Sofiya STURINA. There are no traces on

ISPIO page 8, paragraph 10E, Subject's (econd cousin)

*SURINA, Sofiya

SEX:

i3:

Closu

POB:

USSR.

CIT:

USSR

OC:

Hisic reacher

LOC:

USSR, Yoscow

Known to 201-926535. Piano teacher.

Black narketeer. Has a

large circle of frienis anong diplorats and foreign students.

1+

SECRET

racero.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

.;

SECRET

L. ISPD page 9, parrgraph 10F, Subject's acquaintance Lev

Canovich Mapsh.

There are no traces on Mistir.

the chief of lajo in Moscon was one 3. ic. StARETO.

1. ISPD page 9, paragrach 10G, Subject's acquaintance

Anatoliy FISH. There are no traces on

HELS", Aratoliy

DOS: C1940

POR: USSR

CIT: USSR

XC: Engineer

OC: LiSSR, Moscor

known to 201-926536.

Construction engineer for research

Grad of Kuyoyshev Building Institute. An extresely anti-

Soviet Jew, he wants to emigrate.

Svetlana KiP ease no rage it, Subject's acquaintance

SEX: , Svetlana

SEX:

DOB: C1944

POB: USSR

CIT:

USSR

OCC:

lodel

LOC: USSR

Known to 201-925536. Hell-inom mannikin at Nodels' House.

Unmarried. Krors many foreigners. Notker works for Intourist.

SB/SA

03

SOSA/DS

Distribution:

Orig. - IP/AY (classify into 201-926536, ZR ANTGNOV to 201-857957,

ZR NOISE)EY to 201-969959, indax all asterisked nares.)

1 - SB/CePS (via AD/SB/COPS/SA)

1 - SB/USSR

1 - SB/SI/I

1 - SB/X/EU

1 - SES VDS chrono

Sterile Distribution:

1 - FBI (Part one only)

1 - DC (Part one only)

15

SECRET

---

## Page 3

4-00000

...

-

•

SECRET

111a

SX-23312

29 August 1974

MEDELIELOS FOR DE PECCES

5UBJBCT: Interral Supplement to Pralizinary Knowledgeability

Debriezing of Soviet faigre irina Mikayluna LIPit

The following inforcation was nade available ty Subject,

Irira Miknaylana LiPMu, in resporse to inquiries based on

Part il of the Debriefing Guide.

Tiis inromation is for internal

lise caly.

I. FOREIGI CONTACTS/ MOQUAINTANCES AHTLE 15 THE SOVTET UNIGY:

1. Vittor (LNU)

is a guest of the Soviet Goverrment, a

scholarship saiant at discon State thiversity (a).

African fron Nigeria, where his father sill resides, Viktor (ala

victor is rarrisa to a soviet woran siout 11 jiars old lino 15 a7

instrutor in the Irglish faculty of lei.

Viktor himself is probably

in his early thirties.

Viktor traveis a lot on jcurnalistic

assigents; Subjeci diin't know wnether Viktor's journalistic jobs

are performed for Soviet press organs or foreign periodicals.

recalis Victor clains to have relatives in the l'nited States.

wife, whose nose Sübject could not renenber, should have had a baby

about six or seien contes ago,

i.e. in about Jaruary or February 1974.

Victor hates living in the Soviet Union; he feeis persecuted because

t racial ascrination arainst hurselt and, especially against hls

wife for having carried a legro.

He fears for the tate ot his culatt

baby. As soon as

he can arrange to get her out of the country with hit,

he intends to settle in Engiand, where he allegedly has boney in the

B. Bill (presurably Willian) MBTIN:

1. 5:2158

Subjest said she had been told by her cousin Sofiya Sinhi

and a friend Igor ERSiRü that MRTIN had been an American say who

arrived in Moscow about 1965. His espionage activities were allegodly

dischiered by the iCB, into interrogaied and broke him. Through

interrogation, the jus was able to "double" him back against the

Americans.

Under the decriefer's cueries as to why the kes hould have

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

-

SECiET

use for a doubled imerican agent in saucon, Subjac: replied she

did i racerstani baj artin couid be a valuuble cousie agent, terely

she had caen told he his.

when dartin first arrived in Noseou, circa 1965, he vas

about 32 years old. He is son at least foriy, although he louis

sonewhat jounger. He is about o fast, tree inches call miss. :ary

stort cine hair, a routo, Irtchsi fuce, diue ejes, and an average

He is urarried

reportedly has no employeent, and resides

in a larze apartzent building zear the tibassy district in Moscoi.

sibject bus acquainied nith aRIc (L'll, a matheraticia

nd meriber of the French cean at tie Serpulinor archic center.

and Subject's husband here engaged in speculation is icors.

her huscand traded in foreign currency:

covered in debriefings of her husband.

OF INTELLEGEICE INTEREST UR

FEES. FEUS, ANY POSTIES

A. See secarate 5% DETO No.

352, on Alla aral Danga L

robably identifiaole as Alla ani Kin Ahmedovich XOSal. Kosker i

second secretary of the Soviet Ezbassy in Amar., Jordan.

B. See separate Si reno lo. 23628 on Sergey WAlESHIN,

physicist,

employed in a scientiric research institute under the

auspices of Moscol State University.

C. See separate St Deco do. 25642 on Calina Davidorna

BABUSHKINA, Soviet hairdresser ard judge of international competitions,

and her husband, Leonid

Babusali, an oral surgeon.

See separate SX Lemo to. 23635 on Subject's half-brotke

LEOnid MOGILEYSATY, ron a resident ui Vierra, Austria,

a5 well a

infornation on Nogilevsky in Paragraph 14B of the Preliainary

Knonledgezbility Debriefing of Subject.

E. See separate St caro do. 25095 on subject's firsi cousins

conid Khayzovich and Grigoriy Maynovich SOrCLOUSKn

a aviation engireer respectively, both of whom are imoved in secret

SECRET

÷

---

## Page 5

14-00000

1. *10°-s pim late 206 3714006

1006.30.6206.14 0038.X166.99609 4984

SECRET

Fo see separate Si reo 50. 23,9i on tella Cricia,

journalist sclujed in the American section de the lovesti aress

MERCY (APN) iN L'OSCOW.

G. See separate SX mentio. io. on Mikhail FOST ROUK,

a lestiga corresponden, to las blee, Irira MRoma 205.0-JK,

i rescher dI Pussian literature in à closed rilitary institute.

sulnerabilities io justify separate st reportin.

(1) Yelena pou BYSTPITSKYA, a rather well-?r.omn Soviet

film actress sino was bo about 195÷ in l'oscon.

Che of her fanous roles

"as in the fila of Slolukror's norel "Tilhii Don" (Guiet Floris the Don).

Subject net Bistritskaya through her twin sister Vera DiSlit ir abost

19á9.

At the tire, subject's sister has horling in Moscor as an

orderly at tie cental polyclinic rear the Dzerzhinskiy retro station,

sot far fron the Ministry of Foreign Trade.

This colyclinic serves

rany Soviets sis travel abroad --

employees of the Ministry of Foreign

Trade, tie Ministry of Foreign Afiairs, and, Subject assures, the ice.

Systitshaya sis sole to have her teeth fixed there as she is marriod

to a soviet diplorat,

Subject is certain he has a disferent

surnace than nis rife's liba has reiairs hers thrcughout their marriage.

Igor's current assigment is to a ligh diploratic post in the Soviet

E-bassy in Paris.

Subject believes he holds the rarli of counselor.

cout 50 years old, Igor was bom in. dosson.

re 1s tall, on the thir

side, with grey hair, and a distinguished looking face.

his PCS assigrant in Paris in 1973.

Subject believes Igor completed

the Institute of Foreign Trade (not further identified by Subject)

Bystriiskaya has not accurpanied her husband on his curs

abroad as she tas her oin film career to pursue in l'oscow. She did

travel hith his on vacation to France in about 1965 or 1969; her

husband speaks fluent French.

bystritskaya is a totally apolitical

person who is interested only in her career; basically she has a good

heart. Both Systritskaya ard Igor are Party netbers.

(3) Meisey pru lu and Galina pru lau: This couple

lived as of October 1975 on the Sth floor of house number three, korpus

three, on witsa 25 Bakinskith Konissancy in Mosco, where Susject

SECRET

---

## Page 6

4-00000

me 1024

SECRET

Sce is also a physician and works in the same nodicil institute as does

her insband.

Subject doesn'= selieve eizror on the are Party Ierber

and born are extrenaly anti-sariet.

Ther maintain a large colinction o

foreig, books, boin in Russian and Other jarglages, in their apartent.

They taw and

sel these beers on the black turket ard spiralate in

diuoris ani illegaily-procured foreign goods as weil.

an English-language history ci the Coonist Party of the Soviet Unior,

publissed, Subject thins, in farica,

in their book collection.

The couple has a 1-1/2 year cil daughter, lasha (tariya).

3) LIN (Li), probably currently employed in the tea

eastern departent ot the lüsst Press Agency in l'oscon.

Subject net

Lina when Subject has employed as a master hairdresser at Salon lurber

Five or ulitsa lazitskaya in soscow, which is located near the APY

building from 1967-69.

Lina has one of Subject's clients there and

continisi to have Subject do ter hair wher. Subject roved to Salon

Number Sir on ulitsa Nedveder.

rever married, LiNi is born about

1939; sre is a fussian national.

From about 1966-71, she served as

secretazy to Danya pnu lnu (Dossibly identifiable as Kim Akhredorich

KOSiET), ho was then a political attache in the Soviet Embassy in

Damasais. When she returned is l'oscow, she began working in tre Near

Eastern sestion of lorosti, tri told Subject in 1972 that she expected

to be seat abroad again to a Sariot embassy, probably in the Micdie East.

About 5'" in neighi, Lina is sochy and plump, with short recais hair

ard a road face.

restauraris, good tines, liquer, and her many lovers, nost of shom are

in the Soviet dipicratic connurity. Lina cores from a worker's farily

and probably has only a secondary education.

(4) Genradiy pIi ATONOV (Subject is not absolutely

sure of his surnane; Antonov was as approxicate as she could cone).

Subject and her sister occupica Antonov's apartrent on holturinsluja

ulitsa raar the Preobrazhenshove retro station off and on for a jear in

about 1959-70. At the time, Antonov was serving in economic affairs in

the Soviet Embassy in Nadrid. Subject believes his tour there was from

1963 until 1973.

Antorov is a close frierd of Subject's half-brother

Leonid Mechavlovich CHIlEST face SX-25-75) who arranged for his

siszers i join vitorov's rotar lariya liarovna in the large 1-rca.

aparteen: hhile Anteror was aizy. Subject set Antoror once in 1970

when he was on hore leave in throw.

Subjest described him as about

werage height and veicht, with sark broin short hair, ard souzre-rime

Subject puts Antonci's approxirate date of birth as 1359

Antosor's nife, who accomparict hin to vadrid, is tall ard fat.

doesn't rather her name me cople bit a daughter, possibir redee

Natasha, no would be about nire years old today.

The daughter tas not

with her parents in Spain. Subject thinks she learned fren her brother

and narrer iusological path, it least on the surface. atonow's facter

---

## Page 7

14-00000

Furina.

SECPET

mrished during world var il. subject is corcuin her till-urether

acgilershiy can stupli rich additional irfoication on Antorer.

(5) Lev ZiPYiN, a 45-year-old Areniar, is the Direcsor

Di tre "Charade;la" beausy saion, located or Kalinin Prospeit in tasion.

According to Subject, ¿e Charodejia is cne of the tho cost fashio-able

beauty saiors in dosic. Subject cecane duquainted miti. ricar,an

torough her socher, wra worked as a cashier aù the Charodegia saler

Exo? 1970 to 1973.

Arcaryan is the personal tarter of Als sey icsive,

Cruisan of the USSP Comail of Ministers. He constantly goes to

losygin's apartneri to sui nis hair.

inbaryan las also traveled zoread

on severas occasions srinz the rasi ten years to icipete in de jucia

niemational barcer coetitions, prinarily those neld in socialis:

In addition to resigin, irburyan has other clients wishin

it top rank of the Pardy ard govertment,

whose hair he cuts in trair

private apartients.

average height, Anbaryan looks like a tipica

Arzenian -- he is plus min black curly hair, black eyes, and 2? olire

caplexion.

His wife,

Tazara ABiday, is about 10 years oid, and also

works as a barber (for ren) at the Crarodeyka salon.

3. ARRESTS A'D FOSSIBLE KGB PELATIONSHIPS:

A. Subject ciairs she was never arrested.

B. Subject identified the following individuals as

Kos-affiliated:

(1) Subjeci's neighbors on the first floor of house

nober thice, sorpus three or ulitsa 26 Bakinskikh Kormissarov in. loscow,

nino occupica, she believes, apartrent number 350, lere a couple nated

Tanya (Tasyana) and ANGOLIY (LNU).

Subject considers Tariz an inforter

(stulach) for the KGB.

Officially, Tanya works somewhere on the

Plostichad vagina.

Her rusbard, Anatoliy (Tolya) is the son of an

irportant Party nan who is the Head of a trust.

The father gets good

joes for inatoliy.

datoliy has ir. iran fron about 1972-73 as 3

translator; he speaks Frolish and soze French.

Subject epined he probably

worked for

the KGB there, although he was officially under the auspices

of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

When he returned to Moscow in

about 1973, his father got him a job as a corstruction engineer in a

cientific research tratitude (otrer ise tilentilico).

elieves the couple has mary friends who work in or around the ias.

exployment as a master

in the Kansasol Comittee of the Dzerzhinskiy rayon. In above, 19?1,

5

SECRET

.:.

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

sie carried the chauffeur of one of the tos Furt; ter in the Casu,

she larded a jos

in the beauty saion of the Intourist Notei,

cators orly to foreigrers.

Molecova

cheats da post as au do he muscan at ens sole dabassy

in Stockholi.

te couple coparted sogether for Siden abcut a year 330,

in che surInt of 1973.

Suaject belieres cant both inolodors and her

husbare report to the ice.

Sutject's rustar beliotes diaser is a

NGB officer.

zoch of these people were described by Subject as faithful

Corrunists and good Party : sabers.

see Paragrap. 13 acore for inismation on Bill SARTIN,

when Subject heard lias an inericar. spy who had been doubled i; the XG.

4. DISSILICE INFORNATICH:

Subject wis never irvolved in any dissideri activities in the

Soviet Union.

Sie had no interest in unerground literature (samiedat)

und nover rezd ar, nor dia che cler read dussian lanquage cocks

published abroad.

It is unlikely Subject would have read such raterial

or participated in dissident activities even had she had the charce to do

so, as Subject and her husbard disdained the efforts of the Soviet

dissidents as foolish and pointless.

Subject herself has only a secondan

aiucation and limited mentality. She is not interested in ideological

matters and is ar apolitical person.

It is highly doubtful Subject

read much of anything, forbidden or otherwise.

5. INFORVATICN CONCERNIG SOVTET INTIONALISM EROSIES:

None. Subject has difficuity differentiating between the

various ninority rationalities of the Soviet Union and tends to lump

certain of then together under convenient generic terms, such as

"Siriytsy'' (Syriars) for Soviets of Turkic or other loslen nationality

Subject has no interest in the plight of cirority rationalities

in the LeSSR.

She recognized it was her Jewish ancestry which ralped

her to migrate legally from the USSR, but that is as far as it went.

6. CONNENT COUCERNING FOREIGE RADIO BROADCISTS TO THE SCYTET UNION:

Not covered in this debriefing. Subject never rentioned listering

to ferriga radio, even in passira.

7. CRISE IN THE SOVIET UNION:

Subject apparently has not persozally intelved in crininal

activities in the Soviet Union, but she was well aware of her rustard's

continial black market operations.

Subject's husterd dealt successfully

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

Fir in,in

572

SECRET

is speculation i icons, gens. gold, objess d'ari, and icreize currera:.

and occasionally couget

and resold cariftira and lastish eeti ca these

activities are considered crairal auts in the issa.

reiaiis of

Subject's hussiat's astivities -' be fond in his cebriefi..

especially SX-23634 on Subje's hushand's Lic lodge de Sunder black

warket activities, and denoraril for the Pecord, dated 30 Sey 1974 in

Subject's hussard's 201-922953.

8. INFORNUTICY PERTALVDE TO SOVIE: JAIL CEDERSHIP PERCEIPES:

No infomation.

9. MINLESGLISILITY PEC-SING KGB MCIUS OPERLOI PSEUE USET:

None.

10. ICENTIFICATION OF CATER SOVIETS HED SAY BE OF POSSUELE OS

INTEREST:

In addition to those individuals covered above in paragraphs

"tho and three, Subject was depriated on the following Scriet personaiities

niho may be of rarginal operatical interesi.

A. Ler GUZOUSATY: Crosorskiy is te Director cé the Dantal

Polyclinic near the Dzerzhinstoye metro station in central descon.

This clinic is located near tra building of the Soviet linistry of Foreign

Trade and is frequented by rany Soviet officials io travel abroad an

their families (ci. Paragraon Z(1) above en Bystritskaja). Crosasciy,

as director of ino polyclinic, is very Miciledgeable or its cliencele.

Himself an oral surgeon (stratolog), Grozorskiy is about 35 years old

and a Jew.

Subject net his trough her brother Leonid iNGLErSin hino

is a stomatologist by trainirg.

Grozorskiy is a Party Eercer. His

daughter, Liliya, is also a simatologist and is rarried to a consinuction

engineer naned let L'U.

In order to supplement his incare, Groorskiy

dues private dental work on the side (na levo).

B. Tatyana ZAREDSKAYA is arother stonatologist employed

at the dental polyclinic described

above. About +5 years old, she is

Jewish ard a Party renber, borr. in Noscov..

Her first husbard, whose

sumane she still uses, was Yevgeniy ZARaSiD, who worked at the sia

ciinic as a centa: tocoiogisi. ver second husuard, frin (im) is an

architect, lino is also a farty menber.

Zaredskaya, as of Catoher 1973,

was considering alving

, to legally emigrate from the Soviet thion.

Also invoived in hürs "on the side", zaredstaya areraged five rubles

per tooth in her illegal private practice. Cificially, a centist geis

only one ruble for filling a tooth.

7

SECRET

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET

floor apartent in the building where Subject resided incil her

ratana +149 +04 +446715854sta9499.

D. Galira SERuEYEV, corn in 1952 in Noscow, cre fron

a poor worker's faily.

In 1970, when she bas 18, she got a job in ine

departrent of administration for Soviet foreign corresponsents in the

soviet Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

working la a menial capacity there.

she received a meager salary di less than eighty rubies fer month, and in

order to supplement her incoue, became involved in illegal black market

foreign currency deals.

She began sleeping around with black students

at Lumba Universit (FFU) fron whom she received foreign currency

She used this to raie transactions in the foreign currancy

In 1971, when she was only nireteen, she has apprehended by

ne police (in) who took her to the detrovka. She received a tiro-year

sentence which forbade her to travel anywhere outside of tke envirors

neantine, she narrisd one of the black students she had been sleeping

Susject doesn't inch his name.

He finished his tem at Luma

about 1-1,2 jears ago and sought to return hure. As she has forbidden

to leave Moscan by virtue of her criminal record, he divorced her and

returned to Africa alone.

Despondent, Galina proceeded to begin

E. Sofiya SHIRIN is Subject's secord cousin on Subject's

nother's side. She is 24-years-old, a graduate of the pedagogical

diplecats an foreign stuients. She is also intolied in black market

operations.

SECRET

10.

---

## Page 11

4-00000

Toditiotin

SECRET

F. Let Danovich inni, a Jer, ibout 50 yars ot age,

is a Party renber ard head of the UBan dercleriye Enerose terral

nago Cosluzhirania - Administration of Crusal Living Services) of

the iosaur Gorispoken. he is a close triend of Su sci's brother

Leonid logilerski;.

ard is non serving a l5-year sentence in the prison for especially

dangerous criminals in Luisi. à talenied, proper, isichui servant

of the Party,

the senior Mirzan lost his job as Depusy head of a large

combine wher. his son was arrested.

scientific researer institute.

researco tits a coster an one

mildiry Instituta ineni Kybishev.

lie is extranely anti-Soviet ard,

as a Jew, wants to enigrate irch. the scriet union.

LAPEDSKIY, the cousin of the stomatologist LAPEDSKItA described above in

paragrape 103.

R. Svetiara KaL'Mu is a fanous Soriet nocei ino liorks

ir. the so-called iodels' licuse (don modeley) on Kalimr prospelt.

she is beautied, be a rather want love itars, a a cu0 yare vid,

she is urarried,

foreigner:. An ethnic Russian, her father died during forld der II.

Her nother used to work for Intourist ard pessibly still does. Kal'pan's

mother is a Party nenber, but the modei is not.

11. BLICITATICN FROM SELFICE OF CRYER POSSIBLE ESCRE SCIRCES

OF PI AND OPS LENDS INTEREST:

Subject, as did her husband, constantly referred to her half-

brother Leonid MLGILEVSKIY as a tremendeus source of information on the

Soviet blast market and high-level govermental and Party corruption.

or aditional intoration on rogilevskly, see sx-zooss and paragrap

4B of the Prolininary Knowleigeability Debriefing o= Subjeci

12. DEBRIEFER'S ASSESSIENT OF EMIGRE:

Subject is a roman. if linited education ai linited intellectual

She is not politically corinted and rated living in tha

GasR not tecause ce its political systes, but because she couldn't get

what sine hanted in a raterial sense.

and flighar ard probably irculi have no capurctions siout sidelisy to her

husband sisuld the aparopriate opportunity for an exara-varital liaison

She is obviously lasy and unincomed about at things.

appeare io know even less anu the strüture of the Seviet governent,

Party, edicational system, and society toar did her debriefer.

probably reid very little of thing in the USSR ani, in Aberica, Mill

probabli ¿evote nost of her atzention to the television set.

inpressel nith names and money -- the orly questions she asked me a5 her

debricier "ere in regard to tie latest fashions, and who has siceping

SECRET

---

## Page 12

14-00000

you, on

SECRET

with thon in the "jet set"' -- si seenal parcicularly fascinated by

jackie Grassis.

As i:er

intelicial ad scaicic abilities are

severely liaitsd, lt has not surreising that subject got sulised

scout places of vora, geograprical larions, nationalities, etc.

it one point, then 1 sas thing i tind out the country of assignment

cé a Soviet splazat she keri

inen I got is spain she sald "an, that's it!!

sas lying.

s far as Cl apprehensions are concerned, I personally fe

bject is too liniced intellectaily to be used effectivaly by an

Intelligeace service and I doubt the KGB would have picked her out to

penetrate the enigration.

13, POSSIBLE BLISTENT OF SUBJECT'S ASSISTANCE TO FURTHER OPS

LEAD RECRUDENT EFFORT:

This las not even broached with Subject, and I don't think

it ever should be.

TRACES ON LONIDLAS PIONED IN THE FRELININIRY

RIALEDGEABILITY PERRING:

Xu page 2, paragrach 9-C, Subject's instructor at the

cairdressing scicol tina Fedorela IVAlOVA. There are no traces on NANOVA.

B. PiD paga 1, paragrant 3, Calina Davidorna BUSHKINA.

See SX-25642 ünted 30 July 1974 for traces and additional AESHYLOCK/2

information on 2isUSikli.

C. PiD page i, paragraph i, Alla MANESHINI. See SX-23623, dated

23 June 1974, for traces and additional AEShYLOCK/2 information on

CENESHINA.

D. PAD page i, paragrara 5, Marina and Yevgeniy SElERY tho

cr 201-915125.

E. PiD page 4, paragraph 5, Subject's acquaintance Polin:

LALISTAN. There are no traces or

10

SECRET

........

=

---

## Page 13

14-00000

mab moo aaacule cesehmaadeamosnaocizeihsirasdandtois 29515-45551

:

SECRET

*ZALTSAi, Poliza

SEX: F

DOB:

POB:

CIT: LSSR

OCC: Fairdressci

LOC: 1552, MoSconi

Krionn to 201-C926536.

ZALTStR: is crployed at tre exclusivs

Balon Mater One on luznetstay Host itich is paironized bu high pars;

wires. ZALISli wants to ecigrate.

F. PiD page 4, paragraph 6, Sibject's aequainta-ce Klarcija

OGURISONA.

There are no traces on

#OCURTSOTA, Kiavúiya

SEN: F

DOB: c1929

POB:

USSR, Moscor

CIT: USSR

CCC:

Hairdresser

LOC: L558, Moscoi

on Kusetskiy Most.

Farty nenber.

husbaod is an izsignificant factory worker.

ANVAYZINY.

in Septeñber 1970. There are no other traces on

SEXVANZILS, Galina

SEX:

DOB: c1939

FOB:

CIT: USSR

OCC: Hairdresser

TCC: USSE, loscon

Knonn to 201-926556. Horks at Irtourist Hotel salon. Dozs

the hair of wives of visitirg dignitaries. Hisband inatoliy hor?is

for ibiseyer Dance ercupe.

*AYTAYTYAN, Anatoliy

SEX: M

DOB:

POB:

CIT: USS?

.• CCC: Costuner

LEü: UsSR, i'oscoi

11

SECRET

=..

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SESTET

loisayes sence Trouse.

nife flins is prosinent hairdresser at

Intowist totel.

Fi. Pili page 6, paragraph 13, Subject's nother Fuyna jalovlevi

There are to trees on Subject's ruther.

Thare эте по

traces satEkai! itSEs Ti or tulbail Esioronovich Dllulk.

"or are

there any traces on

SIX:, Grigori; Boriso: ich

SEX:

31 Bececker 1910

POB:

CIT:

ESS?

CCC: ju:a Mecianic

Stepfather of 291-926536. TSUP ard wife Fayra Yakovleva

SOKOLCiENNA are pensioners uto hope to enigrate to the USA

MikhayicoTa DLUGIS.

PAID page 6, paragrach 14B, Subject's half-brother Leonid

Nikhaylorich MOGILEVSKY.

SEE S1-23535

for traces and additional

RICES ON LOIDALS NETICNED IN THE INTERVII SUPPLEST TO

TrE PRELICS

RY WINE CABILID: DEBRIEFING:

ISPHD page 1

Nartin has an employee of the lational Security igency until

June 1962 when he defected to the USSR.

8. ISPiD page 2, paragraph IC, the rathematician at the Serpukhov

Atonic Center Eric Liv.

There are no traces on Eric INU.

Germany in 1959.

There are ro identifiable traces on BYSTRITSKAYA'S

husband Jost Liu.

Crienrise iere are no traces on

12

SECREI

it...

Maincter

---

## Page 15

14-00001

SECRET

SEX:

ASS, Goraday

DJ3:

C1958

PC3:

ESSR

CIT:

USSR

OCC: IRA impioyee

ICC:

tisont. to 201-£-0556.

E. ISºKD page 5 paragraph 2H(5) Subject's acquaintance

LEs ABARYAN traveled

to France in Septenber 1970.

There are no other

traces on

KILEAFIAS, Lev Grigoryevich

SEX:

DOB: 1 November 1925

PO3: USSR

CIT: USSR

CCC:

Barber

LOC: USSR, Moscori

Knonn to 201-925556.

F. ISPKD page 5 paragraph 3B(1), alleged KGB informant:

Tanya and Anatoli; are probably identical with inatoliy Petrovich

Trere are ro other traces or

*NDISELEV, Anatoliy

SEX:

SO%: *1935

HUE:

iSSR

CIT:

USSR

OC: ISSR, Mosco:

Enons to 201-936536. Source alleges that Subject is a NCB

informant.

Subject horks as construction engineer for a research institute.

Lives on Ulitsa 2ó Bakinstiki harissarov, house 3, korpus 3.

13

SECRET

.87%

:

in.

....

---

## Page 16

14-00000

-

SECKET

G. ISFiggage 5 par sraph 33(2), Subject's acquaintance

TaTara ¡KLODUVA id her tuscard Vasili; (näisur. lere are no traces

OR MAGICIAN Or NEGASOT.

H. ISPio page 7, paragraph 10%, Subject's acquaintance Lev

ROZOSITY. There are no traces on GROIC SKIY

1. ISpia gage 7, Faragrapn 103, Subject's acquaintarce

Tatyana ZAREDSKAYA.

there are no traces on

*ZARERSYAYA, Tatyana

SEX: F

D03: C1929

P33: USS?., MoscOw

CIT: USS?.

CCC:

Dentist

LOC: USSR, Noscow

Anoir. to 201-926536. Subject is a dental surgeon. She is

Jewish and a Party rencer.

You rarried to her second husband Petr LN.

She is considering sigrating.

ISPKD page 8, paragraph 10D, Subject's acquaintance Galina

SERGEYEVA.

There are no traces on

*SERGEYEVA, Calina

SEX:

D03: C1952

F03:

ussr, l'oscow

CIT:

USSR

OCC: Secretary

Kom to 201-926536. Forcer !FA secretary. Divorced from a

foreign biack student.

Has been arrested for black market dealings.

ISPKO page 8, paragraph 10E, Subject's second cousin

Sofiya SURINA.

There are no traces on

*SURINA, Sofiya

SEX:

POB:

USSP.

CIT:

USSR

Misic reacher

LOC: USSR, NoscOw

Ascion to 201-926535. Piano teacher. Black narketeer. Has a

large circle of frien's anong diplorats and roreign students.

14

SECRET

:: 3.5945

"enta?"

:

---

