# 104-10162-10135

## Page 1

104-10162-10135

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

copy

TRANSMITTAL

0F

"SEMPORMATION REPORT

CAIG.

Large cotagioles

UNIT

EXY.

7H757/In: 1/ Reports

5547

DATE

19 Jure

196÷

CONFIRMATION COPIES

WH/SA 11

INTEIMATTON COPIES

CLASSIFICATIOT

091

SECRET

ROUTING

Ja 13 ₴ 32=61

TDCS DB-3/661,897

CL:OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, IN, CA 2, CA/PEG, DODS, BE 4, AH 24

DATE SISTRISUTEO

19 June 1964

DISSEMINATION

SH."R

4 SAYST

ZAH PACH ? TWHE DR 4TSJO5

SA/LOR

2 WATE

SA/CT

2 BAVE THAN 2/22 BREE MINE75 AT

TarTera

471/1/5

2129/5

AN/STON THE/SHOR

=

EVALUATICN

RECLISTEN

STATE

ARMY

NAVY

HANDlING INSTRUCTIONS

AIR.

PRECECENCE

*I ROUTINE

BARR-1685

(IN-09925)

SP (ANSWIRL-I)

Liaison *

CSDO: BASIC CABLE WAS NOT SENT TO DCI

REQUEST FOR REZAY TO MAVE, SIOS, AND MANA ATTACHED

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/COSTROLLED DISSEN

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

Alvarez-201

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COOXOINATING OFFICEROS)

GLAIISFICATION

SECRET

PERROR POLL tO TANY

1/SS/SO/Hensy Hecksher (La draft)

can thens 03

forein/SA/Intel

ICOTYNO.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

г/дл

---

## Page 2

14.00000

!

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEY/CLINTRÜLED DISSEY

CENTRAL INTELLIOENCE AGENCY

• ROLTINE

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA/NICARAGLA

DATE OR 17 JUNE 1964

INFO.

TDCSDB-3/661,897

DISTR 19 JUNE 1964

_ SUBJECT.

TRIP OF THE "SILVIA" FROY MIAMI TO NICARAGUA

UNDER COXHAND OF CUBAN EXILE SANTIAGO ALVAREZ,

MATICO UNITED STATES, XIANI (19 JETE 1964)

REF

IN - 09925

SOIREE

FIELD REPORT NO.

APPRUSAL A LOCAL LAN-ENFORCEMENT OFFICER WHO IS WELL, AOQUAINTED MITH MARITILE

MATTERS IN FLORIDA.

HE HAS BEEN A CONSISTENTLY RELIABLE REPORTER O5

THE PLANS AND ACTIVITIES OF ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS ENGAGING IN BOAT

OPERATIONS.

I. THE "SILTIA", A MOTOR LAUNCH FORMERLY EVONY AS THE "EL I

POLO", LEFT MI-VI, FLORIDA, 17 JUNE 1964 AT 11:00 P.X. VITE A CREY

OF 10 MEN UNDER THE CONLAND OF SANTIAGO ALVAREZ, JR. (HEADQUARTERS

CONVENT: ALVAREZ, WHO WAS A LEADER OF THE COMANDOS I ANTI-CASTRO

GROUP, HAS JOINED MAVUEL ARTINE'S ANTI-CASTRO GROUP.) THE BOAT IS

SCHEDILED TO GO TO NICARAGUA.

2. THE "SILVIA" IS EXPECTED TO ARRIVE AT KEY NEST, FLORIDA,

ON 18 JUNE AT APPEOXIMATELY 6:00 P.M. FOR REFUELING.

3. FIELD DISSEN: CINCLANT, CINCSO, STATE, ARMY, MATY, AIR.

END OF MESSAGE

STATE/DO

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEX

DIA

ARAT/ACSA MATT AIR JOS

REFCINCLIST

SECDEY ASA NK MIDANX OCI ONT OCR ORR DO

crocso

DDI

FBI

•I.S

---

