# 104-10129-10012

## Page 1

104-10129-10012

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CITATION

MR. < 03 J

18 hereby awarded the

INTELLIGENCE MEDAL, OF MERIT

for meritorious service during a period of international

tension. Voluntarily assuning the hazards of hostile

action, he performed his tasks with high professional

competence and outstanding dedication. His devotion

to duty throughout the operation is in keeping with the

best traditions of service to the Agency and the United

States.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

.."°

. *.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

INTELLIGENCE MEDAL OF MERIT

The Intelligence Medal of Merit may be awarded for the

performance of especially meritorious service, or for an act

or achievement conspicuously above normal duties, which has

contributed

significantly to the mission of CIA.

---

## Page 3

4-100000

SEGALI

•

11 August 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT

(RODRIGUEZ, EmIliO A.)

#214442

REFERENCE:

Menorandum of N. H. Iyon of 12 January 1962

and Memorandum of George O'Rourke dated 7 September 1965

1. At the request of the Subject and the Wi Division, the writer

acted to arrange for an appropriate briefing to be given the Subject's

›, Emilio A. Rodriguez, Jr.), and Joseph Ross Rodriguez, concern-

ing the award of an Intelligence Medal of Merit to their father.

riefing was accorded the boys on 10 August 1967 in & room off the Mair

Reception office at which was present (Matt McCullough) (Extension 6223),

the Subject and the two sons identified above.

. 03 г.

Appropriate security reminders and instructions were given

Rodriguez and his sons concerning the discussion of the medal and the

activities which led to its awarding. After the briefing, all award

materials were returned to the Executive Secretary, HMAB, for continued

safekeeping.

rattlisti

Silive

Laurence G.

Chief, Employee Activity Branch

bsk

an is slice

SECHET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

. *"

CITATION

03

MR. (EMILIO A. RODRIGUEZ.

is hereby awarded the

INTELLIGENCE MEDAL OF MERIT

for meritorious service during a period of international

tension. Voluntarily assuming the hazards of hostile

action, he performed his tasks with high professional

competence and outstanding dedication. His devotion

to duty throughout the operation is in keeping with the

best traditions of service to the Agency and the United

States.

---

