{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

deco
104-10226-10031

= is het | [TX ble

~ i) peete
fet te nog MWe Vii U R

Inforestion on Seven Cuban Internal Resistance Groups

Information provided us by our {atornal assete end Cobar ex-

flltrees indicate chat seven groups oppoeing Castro are making efforts

to consolidate into one unified resistance. A brief description of eee

the groups follows:

- ‘@. Movimtento de Recuperacion Revoluctonaric (MRR): The

primary strength of thie group‘lies in the Ravane area, the Santa

. Clara erea, and certain ‘areas ‘of Pitar dol Rio, Ite militant’ menber-

ship nuxbers 175. Coamunitation with this group 19 meintained threugh
one W/T cireutt and sy commhications, | The loader of this group, one
OMAR, ts presently in the United Statestand {a about to return to
Cuba, In hie absence, ESTEBAN 14 the actiig leader. Although in the
past ve provided this group with equtpaent, money, radio operators
end trained speciaiists, we beckid recently only been able to get 1500
pounds of waterfal fate thea. Hesever, we are presently attempting
to infiltreta to radto'sets 20 this group and backstopping their pro-
curemont of operational funds. locally through deposits made to donor
sccounta tn the United States. This group givea the cost promise for
effective operations and haa a potential for sabotage, propaganda and.
intelligence activity. exteroslly, the principal representatives are

Rafeel Aurello QUINTERO (tha GAR) end Juan Manuel GUILLOT, The MRRL

faction of the original MRR contains as external leaders Ricerdo

LORIE and Hino DIAZ.

J arate oe ea A



cae ne nescence emt unto Arey a

-2-

b. Hovimiento Revoluctonario Jel Pueblo (HRP): ‘The prisary :
strength of thie group lies in the Ravana and Les Villas areas. Ite
militant meuberahip ie approximately 150. We ro longer have W/T
Comminications, but.cuat rely on courlers fer cosmunication with this
group. The grow is ‘not yet reorganized internally to an extent *
suffictent to involve itself in operations of note. The group's
representative has recently com to the United Stetes, and the current
internal leader in one ANTONIO. Manols Ray vas forverly the external
representative of this group. Exteroally its principal representa-
tives are Rogelio CISNEROS, Ignacio MZNDOZA, and Marcos WILLIAMS, “
Ray and his former chief asscelates Col, Barquin, Pazos, Chibas are
not closely associated with the present active elements of one MRP
with'whom ws are ‘ta contact, . i

CKO Bateas Bevolucioneria (ua) :* This group is composed of °

some thirty small fections with tha primary strength resident in the

Provinces of Ortente, Matanzas, Ravana, acd Ploar del Rio with the
possibility of sone few peuple remaining in the Escanbray Mountains
of Las Villas. We op longer bave W/T commanications with this group;
tho former radio. operator was captured. In Auguat of 1961, of its
leaders, CESAR was reported to be captured and JUSTO took asylum and
1s presently tn tha Datced States. Prescot {eternal leadership 1s
RICARDO. Commm{cations with thia intemal group will have to be re-

establiehed vie the use of «.courlor 2@ soon as feasible. Externally



E

{
&
?

en

7a.

principal representatives are Albertc PEANANDEZ Echavarrta, :

Zsyss, and Cesar Brito.”

4: Movimiento Democratico Cristiano (oC): The primary

strength of this group resides in the oo and Matanzas sreas, ©

hough they have some represencation tn Ravana and Pinar de Rlo

provinces, This group employs sound security practices in its activity.
to 6 greater degres then any of the other opposition elements tn Cuba.
The former group leader ‘Lucas PERNANDEZ Badue is presently in the
United States; the current internal leader is Albarto det JUNCO MESA.
Contact is maintained’ with his group via SW means. Although tts
activity has been limited, thie element has the potential for the
conduct of resistance, sabotage and intelligence activities, The MDC:
ae a Catholics labor organization numbering approximately 100 members
within Cuba. FERNANDEZ, thef{r present external coordinator, te;
oy stently undergoing training.. The former external leader of the MDC
as Jose Ignacio RASCO. i i (ene!

e@. 30th of November Group: This is a small Labor group number-
ing approximately fifty. ‘The organizer of thts group, one DAVID
SALVADOR, tae been in prison in Havana for some time. The current

internal leader te one BENITO. We have courier commmications with

“ this element which is deltevia to have a good potential for sabotage

pherathona. zxternally, the feadershtp “Of thie group is in doubt



eget

ve three individsals are competing for control: JESUS PERNANDEZ,

RIGUEZ QUESADA, and ANDRES CARRILLO MENDOZA.

£.. Rescate Democratico Reveluctonaric (RDR}: One of. the

zrouss forming the Democratic Revolutionary Front “(FRD) and the sub-

sequent Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC). They are believed to

ruaber twenty-five, and have,a Matted capability for paramtlteary
and propaganda activities. The only communications existent with

this group is by means of courler. The true external representation

;
f
E
t
j
}
E

ef this group fs somewhat confused since ALBERTO CRUZ, exftltrated -
by che CNR to represent the elemeng was replaced by MENDEZ PEREZ at

the direction of ANTONIO VAROWA of the FRD in Miazt. VARONA ts the

titular head of the Rescate. |

5 ; 8. Directario Revolpctonario Escudtantel (ORE): This stu-

i dent group, which engdges in hem{spherte Propaganda activity, from

Miaml under agency: direction, also retains strength inide even though

: tts former leaders have been aptured and imprisoned: In view of the
Latin student's tradittonal characteristic of resistance to state controis
we. expece that the DRE can revive quize a few assete for action inside.
Tes externa} ldadership 1s presently Manuel SALVAT Roque.

Representatives of these groups say they have formed a Nat‘onal

Revolutionary Council (CNR) ‘in Cuba, and many of thetr representatives

have inslated they owe no allegiance to ary exile organizations,



i H , HES tts
:

apparently referring to thetr ow: external groups, or te The Cuban

a

| Revolutionary Council (CXC). This attempt to form an internal werger

has created considerable confusion in the crganizations Lavolved.

Lour best estimates of the groups’ atrength {a that they could muscer

‘690 - 700 action agents throughout the island,

rn arTneee nen jenna eer ree eee erage



4 way et fo

duport : 2
’ der 77s is
pol owt aes

1 ‘WELL CONCEIVED

A.

G

x.

Ned-polisical Group -- bditrate oovea sen, Recruit, develop.
asd organise reolstance, intelligence nots, ets. Underway

by mid-Novemboy. :

Samo non-polities! Oroup -- Team as above, infilizeie five,
operation will be underway subject to wosibor e@enditions.
MRR -- Infturrstica operation. Deliver 350 pounds demolitian.
Ixfilrrate political leadaz, oxfiltrate two ethers, Undereay
gubjoct to weather econditiens,

UR e- Team camposed of tntersal leader of group plus
intelligence coordisator to be lafiltrated by 1 December.
Indopondent group keeded by EVELIO DUQUE «+ Train five’
soon for group 15th November. Training of oporator will
proceed currently. First three mon of this gromp will go into
Siorra Cristal an or about 20 Decomber,

Ancthar indopsndont group claims contact with OSVALDO
RAMIREZ ta Zoeambzay, whe desires support. Woe havo
given guidetinco for operations. Calims bse 9-10 men with

training and have infiltrated genera] ovedf,

MBP «. Intend got four people of this group inside by 15 Deceinder.

AMHAZER,: - Ex MAR - Man with experience along Camagesy

goast bso feasible plan fer estabiishing mangrove caching

fae liity.

penebaessebbsgr neste a nnanasesonseepasasenentneaENEene :


H
i
i
|
‘i
t
i
:
L
f

Saeed o2e

_ Above ia sampling of cporations fa this category, All above

eve training W/T, thor scepport feellition, provided ov elovoly

euporviesd by CRA,

POORLY CONCEIVED BUT HARDLDS 7

A. Reseate ‘so Thin group epsposed to pet Is 2 team te ootablich
eontnet with istornal aesote. Croup witheat comrovnsesttons
Co holds and hava opevatess whe vafest to go in bitnd, ;

B. MBP on Good fSteatlons Sut shaiy divest proposals, as opposed
to those cader cur direct sepervision, repestodly turacd dows

: by us because of bod boats, ao W/T, ote.
: - Glmoss

G. MBC ee Ooed placa, ‘good setentiess, fall aspects outoide, lach
militant group tnotdas

POORLY CONCEIVED BUT LETHAL

A. ORLANDO S9UTO » Prepossd to harrice a CTC volty In
Cassqutto Stadium te Mirarcse seal ht by tring 73 mm high
cuplostvon tite etedkesn fovea eff shove. Told him te dieo. :

B, DRE «- Plea to ascans BORIATS prises, No apecifica.
Would be ef gonsral tnesrest caly under plan of overall Mbern-

a : under
a _ Wha Crose co Asarshistic appresch. Propare teAske asy
: smash and gvab cporctics. High righ factor, Algh lesees.



cerseacorth » Pl

Minimoto de Recuparacten Pewtuciozario « MAS

- 1, AICARDO - rentected ba WAVE" 8

flo WAVE 9947 whien lo ccheduled for 13th, =
\ 3, WAVE 8987 ~ operation BRAZIL

i 42 Operation VILLA AMOUR = WAVE 9997

i _ With thls group we azo planning operations for Pinar, Matansao and Laa Villeo

within next cin woohe, Lenders of this WOON EEX AMJAVA-4 and DAZARO
| We are traintig

'e wilt be Infiltrstod within sext olx weeks .| THA! throes radio operators for

i this group plus two Instructors pai and eabosase., Tho training wil! bogin

a by tha firet of Decomber,

: 30th uf Nevambor Group

: Tete covered ta WAVE 874) should all take place hy aan of November, Following

that the group cil! Sontions in orgenication and operations. Training of psreannel

1a the oame for this group as previous! group aed apoliae ta all groups.

Unidad RavetectonarjaY

Flan establishment of throa mangreve caching otathuas. WAVE 6855, Staticns

will be placed on off-shore eaves and receive suppites wheusver wit athar permits.
Woother turnizg bed so avust be aple te cond boats when woatker good without

requirow-sst or recoption commiites cet up. First ooo ta Camagesy by Ciret

RTO STR pre oe

of Decemder, Training opplice to this group alse same os provicus. UR boet
ia Te jane baa a ¢, 000 milo espa dility and can bo msds epersttenal withia ons month

Hg

‘Will give a loag range dest wich eharacteristica and epeod we pood, Wo lee! we ohesid


ph fin thie buat. This group bie rot ictned tht CRG,

.

Raychuricnstio del Puehlo= RP

cnaen people are lagging eabind cthay groupe, We don't have @ qualified

“ihnamy type to dea) with, Wo ane dealing through

./n tatand to gat fowr peepie ef their's by 15th of Decarrtor, We did axyvost

aay upevotion weave ear requiresuents va recoptton points ote. would pormilt.

We tarned them down last weok beeause thay bad -

2 greay proposed to put in a teas to establish contact with internal assote.

Lsory without commualcations to laatdes ind have ops rntors who voluse to go in

biud, This group hao not been sffoctiva eiuce AMDIP~3 tof, This operation

could ga within six weeks Uf we hed eave alficer tims.

AMMAZE Cremp

WAVE 0639 - Fetlowiog thia we are plaaaing ons ta the Sania Clare regisa - copper

m las 4hos0 oatzeme woes ond of Island. Critical eorarmunications,

‘Eeteyondent Evelio DUQUE,
‘Tata five mea for group 1hth Noverbor. Tralatag of operator will proceed

cuszoutly, E:teraoted ta GW sad revise plano to mest presant policy requirements.

Firet garee roca of this group inte Siarva Crista: oa oy abou 20 Doresnder,



¥

Fl Cperations

Four operations were subsnlites by the AMOTS -- COCHISE, APACHE, |

GEAANGUS add esa addithcanl oithout namo. Fivetthrce are all {n progress

and will ke bmpiemosted wishla ai avers, Pourts plan ts baing stedied and

caa aloo bo troplemented within siz weeks, CHOCHISS fs oparaiiona whers team

going in NY rth coast and they are to net vp tha dlapetch and reception pointe,
Hae, han details ice COCHISE, APACHE, AND GERANIMO, Tho pending
uptretion which ¢an go lo vbt wecks te ¢ tena: of shout thros people and they

will go in 45 rallus gant of tha CHOCHIZE potat.

Prepas
BAUTA
< Sahotage plas eubaittted by the FORG cathe Béyys radio statica szrit

up norte siveady, Seat one maa ta WG AMICE-10 fcr collection af the nee ebarry

ciien on the area, Flan off! tn affect.

infos

Plan svbtuitted by the DRE + Agsault BOMIATO prisson.. Only ovanidarsd 2+

weitbLa
peasiste etatin general plan of overall Hboraticn but oil! under conside ration.

Not implamested. u
‘

Plan for suppovi af clandestine guazziiia forcas Is volume witiia the arcs

sWimitted North, FAVE bad no indication from tp north re approval as act.
gat v
Pisa which we goat up fer tho dofection of throe aval wlts of Ssnticay

do Cubs with mata adjective af cantinucd action slong rosat bé foro retrepiing (©

nevtral part oudmitisd 2 DSS Lave sot consilered it gud hava not aent up BF

Censhierad Mt fegeo ia Saaeerenagom geacral terms, Bet con etart over aps!

begenghtls,

inthe wnere, here


b
E
i
i

erent agnor nt reereneennrnynte eet

aye reipeiona © atteck.

AL of thyse people we are planning general sc

rhatertal deltvery equlp-nest

alestrié power, commvaicatiia, Uranaportation

wisrevur and whanever pooaible, All are being veeized slong those nes,

jMaxitina
Mitor veaae) KE VILARO next ala weeks this vena! sill be gi: with malt

commercial trating. Afar 6 least one cover voyaze sted opa rationally,

Can be aced with other veesete to supply dong rans tasft! Very olow and we

uve cautously, Wo don't eve vppeet cupablity ine roscaing south soast.-

TEJANA could:to this witale fuar voeks, Praseasicz purchaze of bass form

other sido. (Relovzing to fectland).

UOT Taam

Team of four people presently capable of maritime recon avd operaticns.

Comrmuntcattoas

Presoaiiy have sis people is trafcing two people will begome Lustrecters ent
Aoperaiore

WU have thoes Fidsod is thyas weeks, ene In

four icant operators,
threes mosths, FESR RICE

For GX the farure wo hove 13 candidates oil of them hove had soine training
‘As olbare move out they iil be moved fn. Spotted 7 basic candidates prins ry
froma thase groupe.’ With cus present ataft espatle of training #1n people At

aoe time cbeerviag corcpartmentation. With addttions! {adigeaous tnetructore

1G al auy one Um with cbeerviag compastrnentation,



i
i

reanpinenioonee es

Pty ese rete ene erima a mone

te are cHortar us bats.

sot greens

vowek Tare shay on berle Cary are

rues ee:

70 thaw Sh af those independent o:

uum to yey fox separa,

© beats out in aay meets: and thon was

ry of Josding boete. Kia lathe realize of pungihitity thsy wuld be ay;

¢, bat not wil capable Crews and gocd busta,

t+ Five to els hisbarmen wen

vm Next tentative cprratica proposed by AMWOL

hera {Mismi), €sbar eaacole, oF! £0 laasdovt, Eaarce

rags beat

invootizgating this, We have win one operstica with this group, Is icara good

agi wa are golag te develop.

be

LEARY, Ne hay contact with LOO RAMIRE

Accthar Independent, AMCU

ecambray who dssirae suzpert. Wa bewe given nlra guizelines for cparatious,

Clalee he hao 6-19 mee with tueining and have infiienisd general otal pe

“e ce trying to bring Bim back to groug fram which be cams,

S.RCLA BRITO © Thilo gro bas tratned radilo cruce:so her 9 axl firurty nen

ds tea Vollas, Guestion of since aod lack ef eomrmatraions sith bie rani sesots.

eb EA Hinze as* test nalevitry monde



é
tr
ig
b

i
r

 wendorhal oan €

iy af

ing 387 C081

wd tsica en Cotablicin ext of maagecve cach,

eons

facility, ebrdla7 ty prezesalo! UR, They are good group a0 we're lcoxing -

80 Ri2 Kare how.

Zoth of May Crop > Have made ruqurest for suppott,. Cli-arootk of 25t of

No tumbler Groep, Aa a aplinter of thio group, being adeized to rejota their

ent gsouy. Exploring pesetbility of supporting them I{ they capac? rejoin

parent, Thety plaas come to ue through AMCLATTE Re).

- Requeste are same ao from cthor g7oups, and this is splinter of

Yo hava told thera to rejota parent aod provide them gensral guidelines.
H who want

latezendent group of cazru trainers - 44 monet suppiine and transportation
te Grlante, Ko commaentcalions ead willing to sacrifice thamosivee in GW’,
Civen guidelines to forgot about GW and get resiatanco plan, Thstr epekosman
is Fred Gentte,

indgoosdest Gegap of JUAN MESA - formeriy of MOC, Gansrally colected about

four independent vaste wales he oporats as cvordinstor, Nenalag reeces operations

and wants vepport. For tastancs, waste support operetica to exfitrate eight
children fece west coast. Sesking owppost for an Orisate inflltvation
team brsded by PEPIN LOPE and 13 men, Tarned Mim éowm, BA’ Don't

have ¢apabiaitty to deliver,


independent eab group headed by ALDS VERA SERAFIN wanto-trataing and. :
asrport of fornia) cab ara. Claims he will his tergets ba Havens area, Wa have
cot évea talzed to bim oa deste af poor CI backgrosnd. Spobooman ts Conie Aguors,

! tame 4

indessadent eab group af OSCAR DIAZ wastehe previcas group. Claim they can

Ais targets theoaghext Cubs, fo aseccinted with Gonte Azuszo, WAVE experiance .
with this mas lo ouch thas wo dea lool ktedly oa tte. Pegoooiy Aa wambeor'of.

FDR milgary. be msde anal atificalt, : -
Indspendent group 7 JULIAN DIAZ FERNANDEZ « Claime te hove 200 constitutional”
army maa inside, Radio oct beve, Wiiliny to go beck. WAVE exploring this, Wil

try to tle hiss to another grean, bet if mouceoselal and find bis elaims valid plan

to support hia,

ORLANDO SOUTO - proposes to harrase 8 CTC vally te Cramguite Stediea ta
Miraccar. tonight by diving 75 mm Aigh~sms axpisaive abslisixte ctadium frem
eH shere, Told bim eo dice,

hh addition, tho CRG plan at Hosdquartzrs band carried by Bod Davia and gma
9 ‘cua aaa aan . hai eEUn Race

Faire ep Ye AMBANTY-} - Thin man bao 10 pocols ta Pirar del Bio.
He ts being trained end sheutd go back is Dacember

7

Parersdnenaeee Sues
