# 104-10073-10221

## Page 1

1104-10073-1022,6 -

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SCONSA

"ECRET

LA CITE NYOR 4902

SUFPORT (TRAVIS) INFO L/A BRANCH FROM DANIELS

06,06

THIS IS NY 483601 FOR DO AES)

CONTACT AND SUURCE ISCERNESTO DEZURDO,

i LO ESTH STONE: YORK, TEMPORARY ADDRESS. HE WILL CALL ON CAL PATCH

Li: TWO WEEKS AND SO ON FROM NERE.. YOU NAVE ALL BLO DATA IN FILES TROM

¡ST CORRESPONDENCE, VEEZALDO IS COR VAS) SUECESSTUL CUBAN LAWYER UNTIL

FORCED TO FLEE TWO MONTHS AGO.

HE IS, FORMER COLLEGE CLASSMATE OT MINE

FCLLOWING WAS GIVEN ME AT LUNCH ON SO OCT 61, MINCE IN TIRST PERSON

-FORT FORM, HITHOUT SOJATION MARKS, FOR READY PRANSMITTAL TO DD/P,

• P'OR OTHERSE

UNTIL LEAVING CUBA PERMANENTLY IN EARLY SEP 81, IWAS ASSOCIATED

THe

HELPA UNDERGROUNT, RETS BY FAR/LARGEST AND MOST EFTECTIVE

i BROUP IN HAVANA

AYO ITS DIRECTORATE WAS RELATIVELY UNTOUCHED

CINDUP OF SUSPEC

AVERSIVES FOLLOWING INVASION ATTEMPT IN APR 61.

LSE ITS LEADER,

ORDINATOR, PO CONZALEZ BANON AS "ANTONIOR,

SINCE BEEN ARRES

DIRECTORATE CONTINUES TO MEET WEEKLY IN WAGES

I NORIS OF

от F-HEM3E

LIND gENE

MOLE TO:

Cure BYg

FLAPOSE.

Cage, seat to

Support

ESTORATE, MY PRINCIPAL COLL ACT WAS THE SINANCIAL

4I5 SUCCESS IS BEST EXEMPLIFIZD BY FACT THAT RE

1S,DDO FESOS A MOUTH IN ILYANA, WHERE MONEY 8S

EX CANVASSING FOR CONTRISUTIONS AND SELLING BONDSO

NO ARE MERELYARE IGNIFICE OF TRUST AND FAITH IN

2 ISASTRONG CATHOLIC GUS: iN CONNEETIONS IN

5: MUCH DE MIS SUPPORT COMES FROM CATHOLIC

09688

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nöt Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

..NATE MONES OF UEDADE SUSURE, GEt 997..

Support

?. OS|I--MEMBER DIRECTORATE: MY PRICIPAL CONTACT HAS THE FINANCIAL

- ADEP, LINO JERE?.

HIS SUCHESS IS BEST EYEMPLIFIED BY FACT THAT HE

ST'LL IS ABLE TO RAISE 15,000 PESOS A MONTH IN HAVANA, WHERE MONEY IS

SO HARD COME BY, THROUGH CANVASSING FOR CONTRISUTIONS AND SELLING BONDS.

FONDS MAVE NO BACKING, AND ARE MERELY RECOGNITION OF TRUST AND FAITH IN

MELP'S PURPOSE, PEREZ IS,STRONG CATHOLIC WITH MANY CONNECTIONS IN

ATHOLIC CHURCH CIRCLES, MUCH OF MIS SUPPORT CONTS FROM CATHOLIC

LEADFASO

3. THE MIRAPÉ IN HAVANA IS FAR LESS HADICAL THAN UNDER LEADER SHIP OF

MANOLO PAY, VHO HAS BEEN COMPLETELY DISCREDITED D

RECENT MONTHS. ITS PRIMARY PURPOSE TODAY ISEN, ASSARINATION OF TOP

LEADERS IN THE CASTRO RE IME, AND (E) SABOTAGE OF

IMPORTANT INDUSTRIAL

# COVERNMENT INSTALLATIONS IN HAVANA. NEITHER OF THESE STEPS BY

ITSELF IS INTENDED TO O1 "KROW REGIME BUT TO SPEED OVERTHROW BY THEIR

OUMULATIVE VALUE. IT IS

"TAINLY AGREED THAT RAFUL CASTRO WOULD HAVE

TO BE KILLED COINCIDENTI

TH FIDEL, FOR IF RADUL SURVIVED HIS

POTHER, HIS RETALIATION

D BE INCHERUSY BRUTAL AND WIDESPREAD.

I, STRENGTH OT TAP :

NA S

17

BUT BE ESTIMATED/TO

• MEASURED MORE IN TERMS OF ABILITY TO RAISE

- S AND PLOY UP BUILDI

!' ¿ THROUGH INSUFFICIE.

A VULNERABLE TAF

ED IS WILL FED, IN:

::-T IS NOT AFFORDED

PIPTED AGAINST TH

"!!. TION BECOME EXTRE

/ BE AGAINST USING AE

PEN. FURTHER RED

'" WASTE" GENERAL RE

ALTHOUGH LATTER EFFORT HAS BEEN HURT 'T

LIES

OF EXPLOSIVES AND FAILURE OF MA. Y

Dicing aideven in that

_SUCH LUXURIES AS DRANGE NIC

FAMILIES. FRIENDS OF MINE IT

¡i HAVE TOLD : IAT SHOULD i

ITE WHICH IT HE: ! THUS FAI

JUED TO THEM TO FEEL WIVES AND

PEAN FOOD SUPPLIES BY AN ENTOR

WOULD ENCOURAME OTTO!!"

UT THIS

-!!!

•OD

FY WOULD

MARGO

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Copyr

NIVATE HONES OF MEDIDO SUBURB OTTA

Suppre

P. OF|12-MEMSER DIRECTORATE: MY PRIRCIPAL CONTACT WAS THE FINANCIAL

MADER, LING JERE?.

MIS SUCCESS IS BEST EXEAPLIFIEN BY FACT THAT HE

STILL IS ABLE TO RAISE 15, DER PESOS A MONTH IN HAVANA, WHERE MONEY IS

SO MARD COME SY, THROUGH CANVASSING FOR CONTRIBUTIONS AND SELLING BONDS.

BONDS NAVE NO BACKING, AND ARE MERELY RECOGNITION OF TRUST AND FAITH IN

MEEP'S PURPOSE. PÉREZ IS STRONG CATHOLIC GITH MANY CONNDETIONS IN

CATHOLIC CHURCH CIRCLES; MUCH OF RIS SUPPORT COMES FROM CATHOLIC

LEADERS.

3. THE MiPpP, IN HAYANA IS FAR LESS HADICAL THAN UNDER LEADERSHIP OF

MANOLO RAY, WHO HAS BEEN COMPLETELY DISCREDITED BE 16

IN

RECENT MONTHS, ITS PRIMARY PURPOSE TODAY IS (Á) ASSARINATION OF TOP

LEADERS IN THE CASTRO RESCME, AND (E) SABOTAGE OF IMPORTANT INDUSTRIAL

AS GOVERNMENT INSTALLAT LINS IN HAVANAS. NEITHER OF THESE STEPS BY

ITSELF IS INTENDED TO OI

KROW REGIME BUT TO SPEED OVERTHROW BY THEIR

CUMULATIVE VALUE. IT I:

TAINLY AGREED THAT RATUL CASTRO WOULD HAVE

TO BE KILLED COINCIDENT!

•ITH FIDEL, FOR IS BABUL SURVIVED HIS

BROTHER, MiS RETALIATION

"D BE INGASAIOLY BRUTAL AND WIDESPREAD.

WO STRENGTH OF, VIRP

NA &

SO BUT SO ESTIMATEPITO

JOE 10880 ITS SUCCE

:MEASURED MORE IN TERMS OF ABILITY TO RAISE

" SAN PLOT UP BUILDI

= THROUCH LIGUFFICIE

DAE-MADE BOMBSO

A VULNERAZLE TAY

'IN IS WELL FED, IN

!:- P IS NOT AFFORDED

FIFIED ACAINST TW

• I: TION

BECOME EXTRE?

WISE AGAINST USING AF

FURTNER RED

RE-

ALTHOUGK LATTER EFFORT HAS BEEN HURT C

LIES OF EXPLUSIVES AND FAILURE OF FAL Y

ecoming apparent

in Tre

S SUCH LUXURIES AS ORANGE JUIC

FAMILIES. FRIENDS OF MINE IP

LI HAVE TOLD'.. 'AT SHOULD I

ITE (WHICH IT

I THUS FAT.:

SUED TO THEM TO FUTO HIVES

AND

PUSAN FOOD SUPPLIES- BY AN ENFOR

SAT SOULS ENCOULARE NOT TATIAN AS AN-

SEE MILITIA!

'UT THIS

*TIA

IOD

EY KOULD

BARGO

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SAILA IS WELL FED, 3

BENEFIT IS NOT AFFORDE

CONSCRIPTED AGAINST TI

SITUATION BECOME EXTREI

1' BE AGAINST USING A

HISREN® FURTHER FED

HUGHT HASTEN GENERAL R

INTO RANKS OF COUNTERS

€O IT IS EARNESTEY

EEFUGNANT ROLE OF "CH

DISTASTEFUL TO CUBANS

DUTT A MARKED MAN TO!

DISINTEGRAIION OF EA

WITH TRIS NATIONALS

1, ZIR DUTIES

REEVES COMMENT: IF

M-P? IF SO, VE CAN

SE:REP

*. NYOR

$902 (TR:

C1:6233 105

• CTATION DE/P A

об

CONTA-EZ "ANT

PACKING MOR.P'S MoRaP

E7 08

RAGCH CA3

•'NOT DE ANTI-CAST?

1117187 OCT ESS

09688

2/pd

THE LAN

UT.

SUCH LE

: JUIC.

iT FANILIES.

FHRUSSINY

WILL) HAVE TOLD ME THA

D T

ICUTE CHICK IT HAS MOUS. FI

§SUED TO THEM TO FEED WIVES AN

CUBAN FOOD SUPPLIES BY AN EN

THAT WOULD ENCOURAGE DEFECTI

FIONAIRIES®

FENDED: THAT ANTI CASTR

INForme

OR

SO THIS HAS BE

BATISTA DAYS, AND THI

'IALLY

- IS

LISTE

ASLITIA, IT PLAYING UF I

FIFTY PORCED UT

S ANY VALUE AT AL:

•RE.

06

• BRANCH 6. ...

=JHATCH BIO COE WA

61 MoRo Po UNTCUCH

i HAVANA 12 LI

• RAI DIS"

UNKS

* BATIS

ILD

N

TED

---

