# 104-10120-10402

## Page 1

104-10120-10402

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Extract from Dispatch UFGA-17410,

dated 24 August 1964, subject:

TYPIC Operational; AVTRUNK-1

RELEASE AS JANIZED

1999

---

## Page 2

MUltaY and volsky had a close rolationship in their work and WAGLEY

oponly soported VOLSKY os his richt hand man to the Director of the

Voleo of Aloriea (VOA), Henry Louis.

(1) CAGLET vas t:

rogerred to tho lachington Office in Auguat

3 aù ohioh cunel Consor

vOrsIN continuod in hia

100 01 000st20no1

copy of his weekly roport

dos LAGEST edich ros sont Yaroctly to lachingion for him.

sato of thie report, uheLy reading in charge or the usiA office ano

Voraly so otill esployed in the anne status.

(5) According to Tad SZUlC, Major Unnuol PINCIRO Losada aka

orba Roja, Chief of the Genoral Directorate o? Intelligence, Cuba;

Nod direct contact with VOLSKY when no, PINEIRO, telephoned him In

Loud during the October crisis

(October 1962) and stated, in effect

hot "Fidol CASTRO vos angry as he felt the Russians had sold the Cubans

ma the river".

(6) On 3 May 1963 Manolo

1co of Azerica novopapercoa,

ted une d

radio announcor and

2 coplovece of von con-

vosely es on individual

with

tion one trust be careful as lo la

poetad of bodeg a pennualate

(7) Cabriol/

unenD, crozator of the VELA radio equipmant

• Ulcaii, ropertod to i

102:Uao2 in Anguot 1003 Chet on various occasions

¿ Doo curericad forge lougar lintoning ta ou USIA telephore convergations,

pea incoming end outgoing.

40 stakes that he coocn't know what

sacon motivates VOLSKY to do this.

220 offico whon lirs. Mirinni

arrivod thore.

visitor of VOLSKY and has long

Intorviers with him and keeps his

atantly inforced about OMICID affairs.

position for JuRE political objectives

il In feet bight bo the povor which directly or indirectly coterainaa

roco objectives.

(General) Among VOLSKY's Cuban contacts is Raul

no, 201-2001g0, a comber of tha oracutive comtited gutt, iloted

1 1an0lo Ra srent hand man.

This contact oricinated-through the

loso friendahip of VOLSKY's wife with the divorcod wife of CHIBAd and,

1 a result, VOLSKY became closely connected with lanolo's group. Ac-

ding to JIVAVE traces, CHICAS, the forner director of the Havana

litary Academy and reportedly an early idol of fidel CAstRo, detected

12880. He gave & three hour interview to Tod SZULC in Havana who

Ported him completely disillusioned with the Cuban Regine. However,

1B00 had a dolinite record of Comunist Party participation and vag

spected by ODENVY o1 being & CASTRO plant in the United States ey

DA 69037) •

WE us Infiltration of KIBARK

When VOLSKY was first in contact with JAVE concer alas

o datails of his oporation, March 1963, ho made a particular palot or

ntioning that he personally wes convinced that none of the operations

an participants was presently controlled by any political group. At

o gone time, he was aware that AMICI-27 was closely connected with Jues

id ras reporting to him (VOLSKY).

Also at that tino he binsolf vas

roguontly being visited in his USIA olfice by Rogolio CISNEROS Diaz,

abor of the executive board of JuRE.

ANTAUP-2 reported on 30 Apr11 1963 that CISNEROSO et

Booting hold in hie hone, said that lanolo RAY Rivero, Mationel Chlos

SECRET

---

## Page 3

38 JeB, had issued orders to Inflitrate a trustod JuRs beaber Into

rad in ordor to learn the details of any pions with regard to Cuba

ad 18 possiblo to use the contacts of Jorgo VOusky for this since he

200 more than ten agents of KURARI oporating in tho liani aroa who

od boon coping to hin to gather rororts enanating from Cuba.

(c) On about 30 llnrch 1933 JD czonted an intolligence

c0g 0ithin

its organization moco Innetion was

to intiltrate JUnE

coro, into the vorious organizations vhich oporate in liland, as

all au into agencies of the U. S. Govorment.

JOSE *AGUIAR Fornandes,

01-730000, was given the job of Chief of this Intolligence Corps

ning a nooting betweon VOLSKY and a JIAVE cose officer on 18 July

Velasky, when asked 12 he hnd spotted any operational leads which

Int to of intoreat to kusank, rospondad with the name dose AGuTAR and

os ol1p that he was a membef of JURE. Tho case officer felt that

aSKy had made on error won he contioned this matter and Irmediately

niinod it as the case officor hod to act novoral times before VOLSKY

ald ropoat the nemo. Later on ANOT source learned from Antonio

12X03 Gonzalez, JURE

KARl agents

and their acsignod tooks for dunt filos and that vousky

toIcE, ouner of the Comy Restaurant in bacal,

s:0d A12302-2 001

Annuct 192D that lie bid boon Casionated Chief of

:222gonco by the Necionel Direction Abbond o8 S0R50

When acked by

ind tos has nost importent sourco of intontion, he replied Jorco

I vao vorks for USIA in Fload.

(e) AnICE-2 (Volaky informent) on 10 september 1005 at

mooting with a JIVAVE case officer, reportod to nones of threo

dividuale whica he felt he could recruit for WiDARE Among those

203 was that of Raul CHIEAS wion A-27 tried inconspicuously to slip

making it a point to mention the other nunes first.

The case officer

Tie tant this ves another VOLSkY Inspirod attcapt to infiltrate a Juat

JUNE Propaganda Frocion (VOLSIY,

by virtue of his position

1 tha taia is not allowed to bolong to a nolitical organization shove

or, ho is a monuer of the exocutive board of suRe and in charge of

lonting all june propaganco in tho U. S. and in Intin Anerica.

19 1s hold clandostinely by VOLSIY because of his UNIA restrictions.)

(a) AMTAUP-2 roported on 30 April 1S33 that CISNEROS stated

; a JuRe nooting that June plannod to introduco into Cuba thousands of

aflots whose sole purpose vas to discrodit the Anorican Government.

ce leaflets vere to include such matters no RAY'® Manifesto against

JU. S. Government and KUBARK.

a bent directly to ene can tee called not .

Ich he ordered that no further attacks be made on the U. S. Government

he was to talk to Robert KENEDY in Washington the next day He then

120d-VOus and reportedkthese plans and asked hin to submit a report

the nature of which was unknown to bource, ANTAUP-2.

zed versey to sive him information regarding the now propaganda plane

the usInes

(0) On 27 June 1963 RAY returned to Miami from washington

a vent directly to JURE offices where he hold a rooting saying he had

Ined more from his Washington contacts in the last nonth than he had

the two previous years.

He later called VOLSitY and held a conversation

th him that lasted over a half hour.

(d) On 18 July 1963 VOLSKY net with a JIVAVE case officor

d Stated that AMICE-27 had informed him that KUDARk felt that he

OLSKY) was an intornant for Manolo RAY.X VOLSIY explained to the case

ficer that he only saw Manolo RAY in his line of duty as a representa-

ve of USIA in the same manner that he makes contact with many of the

SEGRET

---

## Page 4

82sc

aDd RUBAR

FOLSEY

follow

COn

tho sainistrats

senory. 18 longer

eLephants

never Orge

SHOOn CISHIROStand

(0). On 25 July 1963 Mirsup-2 reported a

against Batistianos

voisky prich they discuss

so be Launched soon ther

eafter

Manendaz

P1001

galearnedron

M, November

1963

Stand ne

AVI

Sau On, be

ITO

IDE REPLICA BL

abruary 196

"thought

39n8 ticle

185

reetostol then ust

elatives ducal

Uscea

nerchan

article

nst

CASTROL CH

then took

USIA, TOPO

ake a coll ason

3105 01: 30R3 30

17 in order to

Jangod.

UDan

rexUgees

#could report

ithe

JURs 's propaganda

3910210201

piet sa.

1310314 contract forbads bin from bece:

he infored A-2 that thisavas not th

Ins 701S3Y had used USTAdor JURB propaganda

entarst

in scedithe prevaration of necessary plans torsondrouthsto

all la tin

Pican unlyersies to lecture concerning KIBARK bot ayal of u.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

rebruary 1984 a report was nade on the Bay of

Pigs. Invasion by NBC television program which had neen shown the pigh

Defore.

LIt was noted in this report that Antonio de la CARRERA.

Betancour tr

one of the producers of the program, d come to Miaas In

August 1963 and attempted to locate persons who were disgusted with

MUBARKAr de la CARRERA sought the sidvice of Manolo RAYyand Jorge

voLsky to draw up the list.

Although se la CARRERA posed ss a non

political NBC assistant, he le a member of the JURyin New York City.

(1) On 20 Fobruary 1964 at a lunchoon attonded by urb

Conrad MANLEY and COS, JUVAVE, the latter askod MANLEY 11 he knew that

VOLSKY maintained particularly close contact with JURE and thenurd

MANLEY indicated that he was not aware of this, but that ho would atteapt

to monitor this matter more closoly In the future, and 1? he developed

any information of interest on this matter, he would forward tito

UNAVE on an expeditious basis.

A. April 1964 meeting, Harvey

sum told cos that he agreed that vurSky was probably SZULC B penetra

tion of UJIA and that he was concerned by the security implicationss.

(m) AEBLEAK-1 reported he was invited by John BARFIELD of

tho local State Dapartment office to attond a formal meeting with eight

Arcontino Loputios visiting liani. This booting took place on 28 Larch

1604 at tro Lontocorlo Rotel in Minal from 9:30 to 11:30 Al. A-1

attondod and notod the presonce of several Ju's nomber. The tooting

oronod with gonoral questioning, and it iraodlutely kocame apparent

that the Jit roprosontatives wanted to nonopolize the meeting. when a

mention uns asked concornine the failuro of tha inaide Cubans to sun-

vart tao Invalon, cianines eratiod the alcor and filibusterod tor

02moot an hour buforo ho could be intorruptod by calcimun to announce

Croaktant. A-i statod that the longthy antorvention by CISNEROS 42S

ambarrassing to the other Cubang but thay rodrained from interrupting

in order to show solidarity in front of the visitors. A-1 stated that

the prosonce of AHICE-27 and two USIA ncabors lod him to believe that

UJIA was rosponsible for the guest list and that therefore Jorge volskY

Dicked the

"to called Cuban leadery that attended the neoting">

(1) JunE Oporations

(a) On 13 July 1963 CISNEROS approachod Esteban LAbELAS

aura and requestod information from and concorning Cuba in order to

cilitate tho infiltration of Juan nenbora into Cuba.

When LANELAS

aced to tive that type of infomntion, cleO said he would soo

COSY and got it from hin.

(b) On 8 January 1964 AUTAUP-2 reported thnt VOLSKY called

S2O AGUIAR Fernandez to his UJIA oificos to interview two refugees who

so intorooted in recolving training and roturning to Cuba to fight

AGUIAR Fernandez told A-2 that VOLONY spotted refugeos for

ads and submitted reports on them to Jule.

He added that volsky

Iverts refugees from contacting of reporting any information to KUBARK

informing them that KUBARK iS the enemy of the Cubans who want to

SHE CASTRO ONES

VOLSKY's Reletlonehip with, the UR

(1) ABLSAK-1, member of the Un and an old friend of voLSke

ported the following briet resume of their nemstnesse

Wot at a party an cantlago de Cuba shortly after VOlSKY Wa

d for reasons A-1 no longer remembers, VOlAKY sought hin out soctary.

Mlam1A-1 maintained a casual relationship with VOLSKY during the

rod january to October 1962 4100 4ho first salt 1451983

"VOLSKY then sought him out to aid, Tad

ULC by interpreting for him.

VOLSAY

san to drop in at A-l's home to talk to him about Cuban exile activities

parently these contacts had no clandestine overtones and A-1 1n bla

sition as UR liaison officer lound nothing remarkable about his visits.

late April 1963 A-l began working with various members of the UR

luding AMICE-27, Marto SEIGLIE Montoro, and Eduardo SOTOLONGO Medina

the drafting of a paper on the solution to the liberation of Cuba.

SECRET

-12

---

## Page 6

Asia purpose In dratting this papor vae, to raise norale anong Un petion

types and at the sane time preparo a wer plan which might bo used to vin

KUBARE approval for incrensed clandentine activity ulthin the UR.

shoved this plan to bis NAVE case officer, who disliked it an ho tolt

Sterould whip up UR enthusias for the devolomont of an active clan-

dostine are within the Un and that this was not dosired.

On the night

of l May 1903 A-l gathered with AlICB-27 and others at his home to work

on the craft agnin-?? took the draft hone with him, stating that he

just wished to polish it up a little.

The following morning A-27 called

Al and said that he had had a lucky idon and had passed the paper to

VOlSKY who was an expertenced writer of policy papers and who liked the

paper very much. VOLSKY told A-27 that ho would get in touch with

AMBLEAK-1 directly to discuss the paper.

After about a week of phone

CALLS TO VOLSKY A agreed to see him and subsequently met him and

roceived his original paper back.

A- then began to be plagued by

vielts from VOLSKY at the UR offices pius-phone calls in which vOLSkY

catreated At to take the paper to Harvey sum.

(2) On 18 July 1963 at a meeting botween VOLSKY and a JuVAVE

case officer, VOLSKY stated he had recently undertaken to assist the UR

in tho propaganda field. Ho said that the Ull was starting a new daily

undio progrem over a New York radio station, lasting twonty minutes &

ay, and, that it will be spocifienlly tailored to attempt to incroase

To pill to roodst within Cuba ind particularly attompt to reach tho

or palitary echelons. VOLSKY raid he had originnlly written all

601 bocadenats for over a year nitor he case to Mient and that he

andoro conld greatly assist the un with thoir new program.

Asked

or tho in had anybody

to writo the procron or whether he would

rolly write it hiapell, VOLSKY said thet the UR has one good man but

¢ ha hamoelf cpoctod to have a major tand in oditing the progra

0ald that bocuse of tais he was spending a croat deal of time at UR

requarters.

•• (JUVAVE Analysis)

VOLSKY is in contact with a large seguent ot

tho influential members of the exile community.

This 1s the consequence

his USIA position which affords him the opportunity to make these con-

cis to colicit information for/propaganic purposes. AlING-? reported

is vorot 1o on a first nono bacio vich roy of the londors of counter-

minederay Croups thon to froquontly pesoci ox soos in his office.

" not cruot voLonY and chant: thos to bacht to a foxolgn

: 0.00.

een, ho so nor clocd to tir top octalon of dia ur scoect.

Rome 11112

contial Foodcion sucarCing Vo do Covocahont one Caban

OO0gCe:n VOT 12

10e, 00:

!? tos.

1 Eveociones 10 Caba

• Did to 2ico, and trit to do ma

..ly antbrooted in ovor-

30: 00.0 Coverenanto Altoura Cada Louivation bay bo truo,

510 o curova indivicual and hia cocontion uny bo concicorably

VISKY's knowlodgo of clandontino nothodo of operation

plod with his Ruscion prison background nd his ingenulty as a aiddleaso

CoONE/EuzArE activittos nake him an escollont candidate for a cosnuniet

tracion agont.

Although thore is no oviconco linking hin to aire.

reing communiet ronidenturn, the paro:bility orists that ho to runn

gloton, alconas or stregor lue cho nIo.

tvon 11 this theory should

rove false, VolskY to violating hin USIA pontiion by reporting to Jus

ad cannging tha U.s. and lualk longo by hin propaganda programs.

VoLel'e Current Knowlodgo of JrAVE Operational Activity

VOLSKY vas in contact with JIVAvE for a roriod of ten conths in

(Tobruary through Novenber) directly through cos, rAVis ruing u.

32n3; and Stanloy R. ZANKA. AMICE-14 ctatod that AMICE-2? bad

milgod the comploto operational dotails of his Infiltration ops to:

IdaY one fauLC. It can thorefore bo accurod that VOLSKY has obtained

SECRET

-13 -

---

## Page 7

SECHET

good pletnro

of

Tend coon onornndl in tha flold of black intaitration.

thr

031-10001 chlactivos of

thie

£ TRUNK operation and AMICE-27°c

thrco

trips to

Pis 802 Con80202000 ,

and t? loct that only farails

Anotractoso tacou

3:l to toodn 6.08

Do mo tude croates nuttor of Ruses

220333 too cono tread in to e move orca

B2Op

303 6

1O12

caylug.on tire in contact with AllICk-27

and aro thorofore concicored known to VOLVEY:

Aadzow

K.

NEUCOMAN

Mallord Ro

INGE VAN

Sconley R.

Inving

N. PROGINS

Hobart 3.

VANDADORN

Ruebon

A. BANNULA

Lion C.

FLUIZO

Koith D. WINSTT

Faul I. NATOLILLI

Aubcoy R. PARANO

A30on 'T.

PUDMACK

as Tal Briettham

293

All

Doc moren

allendez

To:

Debozo

as Dred folcon

as Oscus

моста

as Jin ( SLUTTER Operator )

as Paul (GUITER Operator)

D3 PROSY &

raining Instructor

no Frozy

201.

1111880

Inctrinetor)

101:D

Ino truotar)

Flotchor Bo

aG. Larry

102ng

Andrew S. DACHLUS

Indbructor)

an Angel!:

(Training

Instructor)

Thomas L. MAGUZIS

as Dan

(Tsoining Instructor,

Paul V. ISHERCINO

as Ted

(Training Instructor)

Wilfrod B. IEAFDY

as Pete (Training Instructor)

On 19 Novenbor 1953 in o neeting with

COS, PECGIRS, and ABICE-27,

the purpose of which was to offer A-27 la postedon

in the Station's

APRON Radio Proceen, A-27 seid that he hod rcitton lettors to volsty

and SAULC intorning choa that Opcandion locatco le bon tominated.

A-27 was told that from the cocurity sood oine this vas advantageous

and not to soy anything rood clott

At to too aucivicanla.

levertholdog,

A-27 13 06113 In contres with Vulgar end sulla indoming him of DucaRa

activition as gi.ov

1020r't:

On 8 March 1634

So vory freqcontly with

various NU122 agonic wie t

can crai

20a.

At ors of thoco

agent.

d. Recent Contact

On 20 Fobruary 1034 CISMOS ond VOLORY left liant for Maw

York, later to go to ZuEml.

The tro were

to contact a KUBARK official

there, a contact which VOLSKY had previously arranged.

On 24 March 1964 AUBLEAK-1 stated that VOlsat phoned bir

to obtain his opinion as to whether, there were to be any major cuban

estle strikes against Cuba during lay.

A-1 replied that he did not think

go, but vously pressed him saying, "Are you absolutely sure or are you

baing very discreet?"

•. VOLSKY is in contect with the fol? ning active JIVAVE agente:

1) A40295-1

socially)

Drobably nure of his

x connoctions)

(2) ANICE-27

cON Radio progres)

(VOLGEY aware of KUBARK

connoctions)

(3) AMING-1

(Exilo group leader)

(VOLSIY possibly aware his

KUDALK connections)

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

(4)

ALILANE-1

(5) ECUarZO SOTOLONGO Medina

(0)

/Lario SPIGLIE Hontoro

(7) ANTAUP-2

(8) ADOT-I19

SECRET

(Exile group leader)

(Not known whether VOLSKY

aware KUBARK connection)

(UR.)

(VOL SKY

probably

aware ex-KuDARk

connection)

(VOLSKY aWAre KUBARK connection

since (SEIGLIE under AMICE-27

influence)

(JURE executive)

(VOLSKY suspects him of being a

KUBARK agent) !

(VOA • dally contacte

not known whether VOLSkY avaro,

probably not

---

## Page 9

Pa lot Dispita MECA-17410 da 8/24/64 = Spitized to

exclude personals

---

