|104-10186-10276 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 | 7

a : CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘This material cootains information afecting the Natloos! Oxfenss of the United Siates within the weaning of te Erpionsge Laws, Tile
48, UBC, Gece. 783 and 794, the tranamalasion oF revelation of which 19 any oWenner to an UnaiDoreNd parE & proDiblied by Ine.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY “Cuba REPORT.NO. == CSCI-316/00691-64
sumect Anders ARMOND _ OATE DistR. “18 August 1964
i NO. PAGES 3
. REFERENCES, :
“+ pate or” 1964
_ INFO, :
bere washington, D. c. A
\TE_ACQ. ‘ FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOUICE ORADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT &S TENTATIVE,

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban
Intelligence Service until April 1964. !
r

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing
personality information provided by the source and
includes supplemental information from the records
H of this Agency,

1 It is requested that the addressees take no action on
any of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports
without first checking with this Agency.

: Andres ARMONA, pseudonym "Ernesto," is the officer in
: charge of the Haiti Desk in the Seccion Central (Central
: American Section) of the Departamento de Liberacion

‘ Nacional (The National Liberation Department - LN) of the
Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence ~ DGI). ARMONA yag formerdy, the, Cuban
Commercial Attache in Mexico,112+34,9,647,8,9

Headquarters Comments

1. A report dated 8 August 1961, from a fairly reliable
source, stated that one Andres ARMONA Ramos had been
issued a diplomatic visa by the Costa Rican Embassy
in Habana. ARMONA was newly appointed as secretary
first-class to. the Cuban Embassy in San Jose; he was
also expected to serve as temporary charge d'affaires | -.7
in the Embassy. ean
SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

eres

ae

STATE 1A Taner Travy Tae Taga TREXX Ton
REP_CINCLANT __CIACSO # JENS.

isibutton indicated by “

Ki
rer /pe.8



SECRET
NO FORBIGN DISSEM

A usually reliable source with good contacts in the Costa Rican
government reported that one (tha) ARMONAS a Cuban G-2 agent
vased at the Cuban Embassy in San Jos ARMONAS reportedly was
the senior official who went to Costa Rica with instructions

tu reorganize all existing Cuban ffémts. This information was
recetved in a report dated 2t August 1961,

This same source, in a report dated 1 September 1961, stated

that (fnu) ARMONAS, the Cuban G-2 agent in Costa Rica, delivered

a lecture at a meeting on 21 August 1961, Sponsored by the.

Cubans. He spoke particularly to a group of Communist sympathizers
and militants who were choxen to go to Cuba during the week
starting 27 August 1961, to receive six weeks of instruction

in guerrilla actavities in the Province of Las Villas.

On’ 6 September 1961, -a usually reliable source reported that
Andres Nicolas ARMONA Ramos, ddplomatic passport number D/61/175,
arrived in Mexico on 15 May 1961, departed Mexico for Habana

on 5 June 1961, returned to.Mextco-on 28 July 1961, and

departed Mexico for San Jose on 30 July 1961. ARMONA was
described ag having been born in 1919, a mulatto, and married.

In the 7 August 1961, issue of the San Jose daily newspaper,
La Hora, it was reported that Andres Nicolas ARMONA Ramos, the
Cuban Charge d'affaires, way replacing Cuban Aabassador Juan
Jose FUXA Saenz,

A report dated 29 August 1962, from a usualty-reliable source,
stated that Andres ARMONA Ramos, the new Cuban Commercial
Counselor of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, arrived in Mexico
on 24 August 1962, and would replace Ramon CUENCA Montoto.

A Mexican businessman with close contacts in commercial and
shipping circles stated, in a report dated 29 October 1962,
that there had been no evidence that Andres ARMONA Ramos
had replaced CUENCA as chief of G-2 in Mexico. According to
the.source, ARMONA is highly intellectual and has no under=
standing of commercial activities. CUENCA sugested that
ARMONA be transferred to the Cultural Section and source
believes that this will bo the case.

Documentary information received in a report dated 25 June 1963,
{rom a representative of this Agency in Mexico revealed the
following information:

Andres ARMONA Ramos, a Negro who was born in Mabana,
Cuba, on 30 November 1918, 4s the Commercial Attache
at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. He holds
passport number D/62/490. His wife, Irma MILAN Olivera
de Arnona, holds passport number £,62/637. ARMONA has |
two children, Fidel ARMONA Milan. and Margarita ARMONA
Milan, In Mexico City, ARMONA and his family reside ,
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



Coneatis . SECRET
: KO FOREIGN DISSEM

at Pachuca 127.

« A report dated 23 April 1964, from a fairly reltable source,

stated that Andres ARMONA, formerly of the Commerc¢al Office

of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, ts in trouble in Cuba for

having kept.such pocr records of expenditures; he came

elose to being thrown into.jail, He had now been relegated

to clipping newspapers, clearly demoted. He left things *
in such an awful mess at the office in Mexico City, people

there are still trying to straighten’ out his accounts.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

