# 104-10433-10154

## Page 1

1104-10433-10154

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONFIDENTIAL

28 NOV 1975

MEHORANDUM FOR: IG Staff

ATTENTION:

John Leader

SUBJECT:

Martin Luther KING, JI.

REFERENCE:

See Attached

1.

Ur. Martin Luther KING was assassinated (4 April 1968)

prior to the implementation of the WICHAOS progran (4 July 1968)-

However, a review of other material available in OPS/ITG shows

that one dissemination was nade to the PBI on a possible

activity of KiNG walde in homo

attached for your convenieder? Italy, in September 1964 (copies

2.

We have no indication of any Agency

letter

intercept which involved KING.

indication that the Agency ever requested any of it representatives

abroad to report on KING or to be alert to any of his activities.

While there is a large number of documents available

NICA REBEION

KING,

the vast majority are dated after his

deati and are

in some way related to norid reaction to his

assassination.

John J. Reagan

Chiof, International Terrorisa Group

Operations Staff •

Attachnent: a/s

Orig &

1 - Addressee

1 - SRB Meño Chrono

1 - Outgoing correspondence

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIRICATION BEYIEW

CONDUCTED 01 287161828

58

2 IMPOET Ci SY 06052

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

---

## Page 2

13-00000

NOV 1975

MEGURAiDUM FOR:

ATTENTION:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Martin Luther KING, Jr.

Seo Attached

NI. Martia Luther KING was assassinated (4 April 1963)

rowever, a revies of othor material available in

Inat one dissemination was nade to the FBI on a possible

activity of KING walle in Rone, IIalY, in September 1964 (copies

attached tor your convinader.

He have no indication of any Agency surveillance or

intercept which involved KIiG.

Further,

indication that the Agency ever requested any of it

abroad to repore on kING or to

representatives

be alert to any of his activities.

Whila there is a large nurber of documents available

which nention KING,

the vast majority are dated after his

daati and are in some way related to world reaction to his

assassination.

Attachneut:

a/s

Orig &

1 - Addressee

-Memo. Chrono

1

- Outgoing correspondence

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 10 Mauh 1978

---

## Page 3

13-00000

28 NOV 1975

MEMORANDUN FOR:

ATTENTION:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Martin Luther KING, JI.

DI. Martin Luther KING was assassinated (4 April 1968)

prior to the implementation of the CHAOS program (4 July 1968).

lowever, a review of other material available in

shows

that one dissemination was nade to the FBI on a possible

activity of KING while in Rome, Italy, in September 1964|

He have no indication of any Agency surveillance of

intercept whick involved KIG:

Further,

there is no

indication that the Agency ever requested any of it representatives

abroad to report on kING or to be alert to any of his activities.

while there is a large number of documents available

which neation KING, the vast majority are dated after his

death and are in some way related to world reaction to his

assassination.

Attachment: a/s

Orig &

1 - Addressee

1

1

- Outgoing correspondence

Premanal,

^ APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date — 19 AUG 1976

---

## Page 4

13-00000

---

