(tg4-10712-10266) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

@ oe 4 SSD-112SOG
ser ere aeabrperesrea cans eesseouad
To Nek Danese. SPECIAL SECRECY AGREEMENT

1. ti fa h, Gezpen a
employee of the Central Intelligence Agency, understand that I
will undertaxe a special mission Imown as Prsject JMARC. I
realize that in the course of this mission I will acquire clas-
sifiec information within the purview of the Espionage Act,
Title 12 USC, Secs. 793 and 794. I also realize that isolated
words, phrases, careless discussion, actions and incidents, or
the insecure handling of classified documents and material could
compromise this operation, conceivably causing unnecessary loss
of life, serious injury to the interests, prestige and safety
of this Nation and be of great advantage to hostile foreign
governments.

2. Therefore, it is understood that my unauthorized dis-
closure of any information relating to Project ARC may subject
me to prosecution for violation of the Espionage Act, whether
such disclosure be mace while I am an employee of the Central
Intelligence Agency or at any time thereafter.

3. I understand that the sensitive nature of this mission
@emands my utmost ciscretion, care and attention so that no in-
terest of the U. S. Government and/or the Central Intelligence
Agency in the Project will be revealed or inferred.

4, Understanding the importance of the mission I am to
undertake and the necessity of preserving the security of the
operation, I solermly promise not to divulge by word or writing
or to aclmowledge or incicate in any manner whatsoever to any
unauthorizec personnel within or outside the Agency any infor-
mation or comments concerning the Project or the personnel
involvec.

Eee kh, lone

Signature

Witnessed py me this 3 / cay

