# 104-10315-10011

## Page 1

ALKAAA

1704-10315-10011_

TC

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

SEGRET

HKEN-35

HEADONARTETS FIE NO

•Chies of Statios, Bavana

TIA: Chies, li Divizloa

FROM

16-126-0

DATE

Chlete Par Bast Diviston

SUBJECT

roposed Operaiton to bave Chinese Coumunist.

stspectedof ismaslnetion.atteuf:

CHION REQUIRED

CE(S)

SEe DArRETaph 2

REP: HAVA 5062, deted 25 Juse 1960

I

RE:

"13]"

• ICHECK "N" ONI

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALIFIED HG. DIST ONLY

1o. The proposal submitted in the reference is interesting and vorta

serious consideration. soveral possible ideas bave occurred to us on how

vo can mount this. type of operation. As yet, horever, none of these bes

been varked throus sufficiently to prepare a definite plan of actios.

severtheless, It appears to us that any effort that rould carry conviction

voala bare to be based or detalled knouledge of the "proposed vietlu''s..

habita, movements, and exposures to the publie, providlas a basia for tim-

1ng an attack and selecting a site fron which an sttempt could be nade. In

start, the son laforestion 19 needed as vould be regulred 1I an actual

astas81u4t100 streupt vare costerpleted. It tuild je balpial 1f sketches

and sapa could be prepared to shou routes of travel, time intervals, places

of vantage, altos of pallee stations, routes of escape, location of safe

sites,. Irinary and alternate mans of extiltisting after the sttempt, loca-

tloas of sites for caching the weapon end for picking up travel documente.

such materials could then be varked into an operation attributable to the

Chinese Commists by the Introduction of sultable Chinese touches, and

would provide docesentary support to tibe palsa sacle evidence ot tbe funds

ada risto.

2. He belleve that without the suthentication described above, the

condlaed rusor and "evIdence"' "111 readily be detected as a provocation.

He tberefore suggest that you draw together the latormation describod above

and forward it to headquarters to be processed for use in sountlag this

CHESTER D. DAIMOLD

OLIVER G. GALBOND

Distriout100:

0r1g- @ 1 - Havana

1 - H8/4

2

- FF/ CH/CA

1 - RIDI DOE

: 5/CH/CA: RPOINT: jrh (8 July 1960)

RYBAT

FORM

10.97.53

(401

LE PREVIOUS LOTION

51.28. S1.28A AND 51E0

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

SECRET

---

