# 104-10070-10098

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10070-10098

HiT NOTIFiED

INCE COPY

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ...

EMINATION

ISSUED

OTTED

CI " SSIFIED ME.:

TOTAL COPIES 16'"

SECRET

GROUP 1

1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

(When Filled In)

DOWAGRADIMO AMO

DECLASSIFICATION

2

3

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN Y

5

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

-M. 8: 23/2

FON UNIT

PER

FILE, VR

POP

$

16-38

RET 2700062 AUG 71 CITE MEXICO CITY JI752Ì (ROSTEDIACTING)

(LIMAJINFO DIRECIOR, [SANTIAGO

RYBAT

MHFLUFF

26 Rya IN4 1947&

116-30

39F:

LIMA

TS8I2 410223)

1. FOLLOWING ARE STATION TRAVES KARL KENKER SDORF:

A. LOCAL PRESS OF 11 JULY 68 REPORTED SUBJECT

TO BE ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF PHILOSOPHY APPOINTED

DEAN OF COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES AI UNIVERSITY OF

AMERICAS.

BO LNERGO MEMO OF 25 APRIL 1967 DESCRIBES DE.

KARL LENKERSDORF AS INSTRUCTOR OF COURSE IN MARXISM

AT UNIVERSITY OF AMERICAS, GERMAN, WHO LIVES IN U.S.

AND CANADA AND WAS IN EAST GERMANY DURING 1965. IN

EXICO HE IS SAID BE FRIEND OF RICO GAL A N, WELL

¡NOWN COMMUNIST AGITATOR.

C• HMMA-35792, 6 NOVEMBER 1968 REPORTS SUBJECT

¡O BE ONE OF TEN AUTHORS WHO CONTRIBUTED TO BOOK, "LA

TELESIA, EL SUBDESARROLLO Y LA REVOLUCION. " SUBJECT

OR SCRIBED AS ONE

OF THE AUTHORS WHO DOES NOT SUBSCRIBE

TO THESIS THAT CHRISTIAN THEOLOGY, JUSTIFIES USE OF VIOLENCE.

SECRET

091409

---

## Page 2

14-00,000

DISSEMINATION

jaNCE COPY

ISSUED

SICITED

CLASSIFIED

GE: TOTAL COPIES

ЗЕТ

GROUP I

* EXCLUDLO PROM AUTOMATIO

• (When Filled In)

DOMAiCRADING AND

DECLASSITICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ROTTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN

1

3

4

5

6

7

BYI

_ Z

#.

DISGEN. BY

ACTION UNIT

PER

N

FILE, VR

ACTION NO.

2. APDO POSTAL 398 LISTED TO ROBERTO ME STERN

AND MARIL ME SIERN, AGENCIA MODERNAS, SOA. "FILUS" (SIC).,

SAN JUAN DE LETRAN 5-C. P.O. BOX OPENED DECEMBER 1948.

NO

TRACES MESTERN'S OR AGENCIA MODERNAS.

3. INDEX: MESTERN, AGENCIA MODERNAS. FILE: DEFER.

GP-1

SECRET

/..

SECRET

---

