# 104-10171-10165

## Page 1

104-10171-10165

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRANSMITTAL

TOGS INFORMATION REPORt ""'S

олю.

JaLangdon

TH/4

Олт.

2791

DATE

7 September 1960

COMPIRMATION COPIES

VH 13

NORMATONCO

CLABSIRICATIOM

SECRET

POUTINO

SEP 7 18 36'60

pile

REC'O SABLE SECTI

TDCS - 3/129,205

ST 6. THOO 2. CA 2. CA/PRD, OS 1, VI 4

RUINE

PRECIDANCI

Proff

lose 3568 (1547435)

23 K03L

-520

DATE DISIRIBUTID

7 Septenber 1960

H00

1

WH

FI

1

CA/PTOP

WH LICI

2

/PA

1

TUATUAMON

REQUESTED.

VH /3/197/82

OS/SSD/Paunpa

NX:/6/B

STAIN.

2

ARMY

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

NH /15X 4

WH SAW

16-32

NAVY

AIR

DD/P INTERNAL USE ONLY

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

AUIMENTICATINO OFFICIA

COORDINATING OFFICERS)

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

(Whon Tilled las

IRASING OFFICER

V8/8

'L2 Billing

¡ cORTMO.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TELEGRAM,

INCORMATION REPURT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTEHLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

CLASSIFICATION - DESSEMINATION COMTROIS

S-S-C-R-*-I/KOFON/ CUST ILED CONTHOL

CUBA /AUXICO

ACTIVITIES OP THI PRUSTE

REVOLUC IONAR 1O. DSTOCRATICO,

ANTI-CASTRO ORGIIIZATION

REPORT NO. TDCS-s/itis,203

DATE DISTR. 7 SEITEMBER 1960

PRECEDENCE ROUT 1108

DATE Of

20 AUGUSI 1960

REFERENCES

IN 7435

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

ENGIAND, LONDUN (2 SEPTIBAR 1960)

2%

APPRAISAL 2

FIELD REPORT NO. 051) 2702:0

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INCORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATiVE

SOURCE

FROM A "XLE FLACED SOURCE",

-

"24

1O IN COMTECTIO: VITH PIAYS FON ALL ANTI-CISTHO REVGLUTIONANY IELDERS TO

TRANSTER TO LATII MARICA TO STARI ACTION AGAINST THE CASTRO COPENHLET, TIES

THANTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCZAIICO (SHD, DECOHITIC RANCIUTIONINT THONT) IS THYING

TO PERSUNDS THE APPROPHIAIS NIXICAN COVERMERT MISTRY TO GiLiNT VISiS TO TOSE

CUBALS IN ALL PARIS GE SEE MORLO WHO MISS iO GU TO MEXICO. TIES PRO MAS PLENTLY.

STRENOTHINED IS INLONRSHIP BY RECRUITING RAFAEL SAWINIS, WELL-AZOUN HENAN OF

TIS NATIGAL ASSOCLAION OF ESTATE OWES AID FAUCHS. SARDILIS IS ECTNATED TO

AKHIVS SUUN D' ASTICO. UTH FUD LEADERS VEHE EISURIO NO ARTIVE I AUSXICO CA

20 AUTUST. AiLMTEL ALINE IS ALREADY iN NEXICO CIrY.

2. TIE HSADJUARTARS OF PIX PROPAGANDA ORGALIZATION CUITHOLLLD BY THE FRD WILL

BE DI MEXICO. IT MAS HOPED THAT AFTER ADULIO LUFEZ NASSOS, IRESIDENT OR AXXICO,

CLASSUFICATION - DISSIMIMATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T /LOPORN/ SOST ISUED CONTHOL

STATE

ARMY/ACSI | NAVY

AU LOS SECOEF INSA NIC | USIA OCI

I TELEGRAMI

ONE OCR, ORR

00 1B4 MS

TRPAJURY AYC XCLAI

INFORMATION REPORT

I TELEGRAM

/2/MJ

---

## Page 3

CASSICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLE

S-I-C-R-I-T /5UFOHH/CONTINUTU CONTROL

T065 3/415, 205

0N0 47435

PAOR

2

SFOXE ON 1 SEPIZHAER 1960 THS YRD VOULD BE ABLE TO INTINSITY ACTION AGALEST FIDEL.

CASTRO AND THAI THOUGH TET MEXICAN COVERNENT WOULD LOI ATTACK CASTRO RINSTLE IT

VOULD NOS SUPPORI HIX, THIS, IN INFECI, MOULD SIGNITY ODI TOLERANCE OF THE

ANTI-CASTRO CAUSI.

30. THai IS A DIEP DIVISION BETWEEN VIBERS UE THE CASTiO ARMY AND THOS

MILITIAS, THE FAD INTENDS TO EXPIOIT THIS SIVATION IN ITS TUTURE PLANS.

(HEADQUARTERS COLINI. AN UNTESTED SUUNCE REPOKED UN 2 AUCUSE 1960 THAT THE

CUNFLICT BATVREI THE REVOLUTIONARY ARKY AID THA MILITIAS IS WiLL DONN BY THE

HALIC. THE AY LUST WORK LIE DAY LABORCHS IN THIS HOST ISOLATED, UNCONNORTABLE,

AND UNDLAUCHTUI PLACES IN CUBA, WHILE THE LILITIAS AHS IN CHARGE OF THE PROPLE

NID ARB PLATTINED AND CAJOLED BY THS COVIININT).

40 FIELD DISSEA: STATE

AND OF FESSAGS

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-S-C-R-E-T /50FORS/COUT INUED CONTROL

---

