# 104-10337-10005

## Page 1

1104-10337-10005

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ADMINISTRATIVE-IN'L'EHNAL USE UNNE

393-05714

ER 3124/93

17 May 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Deputy Director for Administration

Deputy Director for Intelligence

Deputy Director for Operations

Deputy Director for Science and Technology

FROM:

SUBJECT:

-

Executive Director

Request for Assistance/Declassification

of JFK Assassination Records

it;

1. This memorandum requests that addressees identify

staff employees for overtime, after-hours work on Agency

records related to President

nation.

John F. Kennedy's assassi-

The overtime will be paid by the Center for the

study of Intelligence.

The request stems from a requirement

in the JFK Assassination Records Act that all relevant

government documents be reviewed for declassification and

transferred to the National Archives by 22 August 1993.

2. The specific task for which assistance is needed is

indexing of data into an automated system and ultimately

producing computer-generated forms called "identification

aids. "

form

This involves keying in infornation onto a pre-set

that appears on a personal computer screen.

(Experi-

ence in indexing or as a document analyst is necessary.)

The Act cited above requires that each document transferred

to the National Archives have attached to it such an aid.

The same information that is developed in the aids will-be

produced on diskettes that will be forwarded to the National

Archives for use in compiling an electronic index.

3. We estimate that it will require up to 20 people

working 10 hours of overtime per week, probably beginning ir

early June, to meet our deadline. The work will be done in

the office of the Historical Review Group, in Ames Building.

The preferred hours would be Monday-Friday, 1630-1830, or

1700-1900, and there may be work on Saturday as well.

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Request for Assistance/Declassification of

JFK Assassination Records

4. Applicants should contact the Historical Review

Group.

Center for the study of Intelligence, Room

404 Ames,

ext. 30335/01 30146 (secure).

R. M. Huffstutler

Attachment:

CSI-0048, ata 2 Apr 93

AMNTSTRATTVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 3

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE UNLE

SUBJECT:

Request for Assistance/Declassification of

JFK Assassination Records

DCI /CSI/HRG/JFPereira:hfs

Distribution:

original - Addressees

1

- EXDIR

1

- D/CSI

1

- C/HRG

. 1 - HRG file

×30335}

(12 May 93)

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 4

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY

ER 93-0325

18 May 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Executive Director

Completing Work on JFK Assassination Records

1. Your office has asked whether additional resources are

needed to complete work on the JEK records by the deadline

established by Congress of 22 August 1993. Barring th

unforeseen, we should meet the deadline.

The Historical Review Group expects to complete review of

(some 250,000 pages) by early June.

Since

coordination with the directorates has lagged, we have taken steps

to increase the number of directorate reviewers. The DO has

approximately doubled the number of reviewers to eight. They are

committed to adding additional resources if required.

3. The second problem is the need to prepare identification

aids for every document transferred to the National Archives.

have given approval

for up to 20 indexers and document analysts to

work overtime on this effort.

4.

A potential problem exists in processing a box of

microfilm, which contains the equivalent of some 172,000 pages of

additional material.

The Historical Review Group believes a large

part consists of duplicates of material already reviewed.

They

should know whether this assumption is correct within the next few

days. In any event, I will assign additional resources if needed.

5. The President has yet to name the Review Board called for

oy the JFK Act; therefore, we cannot determine whether the boar

vill have additional requirements for us.

P.m. thispaceter

R. M. Huffstutler

ADMINISTRATIVE-- INTERNAL USE

ONLY

---

## Page 5

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE-- INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT:

Completing Work on JFK Assassination Records

Distribution: (ER 93-0325)

Orig - Addressee

1 - C/HRG/CSI

1 - EXDIR Chrono

1 - EXDIR Subject

1 - Executive Registry

Retyped:

2

IANTNTOMPANTUF - -INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

---

## Page 6

13-00000

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

ADMINISTRATIVE- INTERNAL USE ONLY

26 May 1993

NOTE FOR: D/CSI

SUBJECT:

Review of JFK Documents

Following are additional steps being taken to complete

the declassification of the JFK records:

1. We are arranging to bring in at least 20 indexers

to work overtime on inputting information into the

data base from which identification forms will be

printed.

- Estimated overtime cost: $50,000 (could go

higher, depending on number of people we need).

- On 5 April the EXDIR gave approval for up to

20 indexers at cost of $3-4,000 weekly.

The microfilm file is to be printed out in hard

copy as soon as possible.

- Estimated contractor cost: $17,000.

- Contractor selected by LOGS is Octo Inc,

Laurel, Md.

We are acquiring two additional specialized

copiers for redaction of documents to be released.

(DCI/LOGS is arranging a short term lease.)

John Pereira

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 7

13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

CLA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 0320/93

RELEASE AS SANITIZEDI September 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Director

VIA:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Director

Center for Study of Intelligence

John F. Pereira

Chief, Historical Review Group

Resource Requirements fo

Iistorical Review Grou

1. The purpose of this memorandum is to outline the

resources required to enable the Historical Review Group

(HRG) to accelerate the declassification of the microfilmed

Kennedy assassination records.

resources, we would expect to complete the review of the

microfilm--equivalent to about 150,000 pages--by the end of

this year.

Personnel: An additional number of contractors

equivalent to 12 full-time reviewers.

- There are now nine staff reviewers and nine

contractors in HRG. Six of the staffers are on

rotational assignment until May/June 1994; when they

will be replaced by contractors.

Computers: Twelve additional computer terminals

and associated eguipment, including a printer, and

enhancements to the present LAN. Estimated cost: $49,000.

4.

Other equipment: One high-speed copier. Estimated

cost:

$15,000.

5.

Space:

Acquire an estimated 1,400 square feet to

accommodate additional contractors, equipment, and document

storage space. Storage shelves for approximately 200

archival boxes are needed.

There will be a continuing need for the resources

described above even after declassification of the Kennedy

assassination records is completed. The Agency is committed

to releasing to the National Archives substantial

collections of records on topics such as the Bay of Pigs,

the Guatemalan coup, the coup in Irag, and several other

the coup in i

major covert action programs.

We also are committed to

---

## Page 8

13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT:

Resource Requirements for

Historical Review Group

releasing all national intelligence estimates on the former

Soviet Union that are ten years old or older.

In addition,

HRG is charged with declassifying a growing number of

documents for the State Department's "Foreign Relations of

the United States"

series.

phe Famine

John F. Pereira

- ANATOTAT

---

## Page 9

13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT:

Resource Requirements for

Historical Review Group

DCI/CSI/HRG/JFPereira:hfs/30335 (14 Sep

93)

Distribution:

Original - Addressee

1 - D/CSI

1 - C/HRG

1 - HRG file

FOR AFETATAT. USE ONT.Y

---

## Page 10

13-00000

3 Sept. 1993

Estimated cost related to review of mircofilm of JFK docs.

Re para 3 of memo:

Current level of effort required to complete review within 5 to 6 months:9 staff employees

& 7 ICS.

Estimated cost based on payroll data from pay period 18 ending 20 August 1993:

9 Staff employees:

Average salary and benefits / pay period

Number of Staff employees

Total cost per pay period

Est staff employee cost to complete in 5 months:

10 pay periods x $24,576 =$245,576

......Est staff employee cost to complete in 6 months:

12 pay periods x $24,576= $294,912

$2,730.74

x 9

$24,576.66

7ICs:

Cost based on current DCI /CSI contracts for full time ICs: The estimated fees

range from $4,000 to 5,000 per month. Therefore, the amount of $ 4,500 per IC was

used.

7 ICs@ $4,500=$31,500 per mth x 5 months=

7ICs@ $4,500=$31,500 per mth x 6 months=

$157,500

$189,000

SUMMARY

To complete this review with existing resources within 5 to 6 months the estimated cost

will be as follows:

Five months:

Staff Employees

ICS

$245,576

$157,500

Total

$403,076.

Six months:

Staff Employees

ICS

$294,912

$189,000

Total

$483,912

---

## Page 11

13-00000

Cost to accelerate process and complete within 2 1/2 to 3 months.

Per para 5 of memo: It will be necessary to hire an additional 12 ICs :

Estimated cost per IC is $4,500 per mth x12=$ 54,000 x 2.5 mths.=$135,000

Estimated cost per IC is $4,500 per mth x12=$ 54,000 x 3 mths

=$162,000

Total estimated cost to complete in 2.5 months:

Existing staff cost for 5 mths = $403,076 @ 1/2 to complete in 2.5 mths

Cost of additional 12 ICs

Total to complete in 2.5 mths.

Total estimated cost to complete in 3 months:

Existing staff cost for 6 mths=$483,912 @ 1/2 to complete in 3 mths.

Costs of additional 12 ICS

Total to complete in 3 mths.

$ 201,538

$ 135,000

$ 336,538

$ 241,956

$ 162,000

$ 403,956

---

## Page 12

13-00000

COST COMPARISON

Cost to complete in 5 months using existing staffing

Cost to complete in 2.5 months using existing staffing and

12 additional ICs

Cost to complete in 6 months using existing staffing

Cost to complete in 3 months using existing staffing and

12 additional ICs

$403,076

$336,538

$483,912

$403,956

Notes: (1) The estimated cost for existing a reduced by 50% for the 5 and 6 month

periods to reflect the period of actual use. After the completion of this project, the

existing personnel will likely be assigned to new projects.

(2) The estimated IC& cost for five months is $135,000 and for six months

$162,000.

---

## Page 13

13-00000

FUNDING

12

FTE a

1250/day (60 dega next 0. t

=C20 parT Time: wanking.

3 days /Work (a 12 days/

-

15000/04 fur 12FTE = 160,000/m

= 60,000/12X1210=

720,000/yer

subtract Inenesses fun:

→ 1 day/wk

Gany

2 days/ wk

strents

?

Vogel

SpACE Fon 12. FTE

sergeaned

- people

1200 5f'

Equipunt (KeRox), table s

305F

100.5р

1330 5p!

Reen now for 3 FTI (3005).

balance

1330 - 360

10305g

Винта

---

## Page 14

13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

DATE: September 22, 1993

NOTE TO: Helen F. Sustachek

SUBJECT: JFK Paper Project

Helen!

please pass the following to John Pereira from Dianne Rankin.

-Hin response to your request, attached is a list of our folks who worked

on the JFK Paper Project. I am glad you are pleased with their support.

You might be interested in knowing that they worked

478 hours overtime

to complete this project.. Those

individuals are: (William Heavner; Mark

(Drosky;

Ann Auth;

Marie Peacher, Monique Huhmann; Kevin Adams; James

¡Marino; Robert Tarr; Paul LeFrancois; Susan Ball; James Boggess;

Drees; Catherine Dowdle;

Brian Reynolds;

¡Gary

Cutlip; Andra Denson; Randy Peacher; James Sylvestor, Jr.; Arlette:

cuffy: Lori Huber; Susan Brammel1; Earl Smith; Lynette Dewey; Thomas

Dittmar;

and Erik Judy. "' END"

OF MESSAGE

Thanks, Helen:

Liz x46801/

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 15

13-00000

HRG OVERTIME FOR JFK DOCUMENTS

Jun 7 - 12

Jun 14 - 26

Jun 28 - Jul 10

Jul' 12 - Jul 24

Jul 25 - Aug 7

Aug 8 - Aug 21

Aug 22 - Sep 4

Sep. 5 - Sep 18

57

hrs.

244

301

hrs.

hrs.

327.5 hrs.

628.5 hrs.

516

hrs.

1144.5 hrs.

Sep 19 - Oct 2

Total

508

hrs.

1645.5 hrs.

480.5 hrs.

2126

hrs.

hrs.

2134

hrs.

56.5 hrs.

2190.5 hrs:

64.5 hrs.

2255

hrs.

---

## Page 16

13-00000

HRG OVERTIME FOR JFK DOCUMENTS

June 7 - 12

June 14 - 26

June 28 - July 10

July 12 - July 24

July 25 - August 7

August 8 - August 21

August 22 - sept. 4

Sept. 5 - Sept. 18

TOTAL

57 hrs.

244 hrs.

301 hrs.

327.5 hrs.

628.5 hrs.

516 hrs.

1144.5 hrs.

508 hrs.

1645.5 hrs.

480.5 hrs.

2126

hrs.

. 2134

8 hrs.

hrs.

56.5 hrs.

2190.5 hrs.

---

## Page 17

13-00000

HRG OVERTIME

June 7 - 12

June 14 - 26

June 28 - July 10

July 12 - July 24

57 hrs.

244 hrs.

301 hrs.

327.5 hrs.

628.5 hrs.

516 hrs.

1144.5 hrs.

July 25 - August 7

508 hrs.

1645.5 hrs.

August 8 - August 21

480.5 hrs.

2126

hrs.

August 22 - August 29

8

hrs.

Total 2134

hrs.

---

## Page 18

13-00000

HRG OVERTIME

June 7 - 12

June 14 - 26

June 28 - July 10

July 12 - July 24

57 hrs.

•44 hrs.

301 hrs

327.5 hrs.

628.5 hrs.

516 hrs.

1144.5 hrs.

July 25 - August 7

508 hrs.

1645.5 hrs.

August 8 - August 21

480.5 hrs.

Total

2126

hrs.

---

## Page 19

13-00000

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

8 Sept. 1997

To:

Subject:

C/HRG

Comments on Gunn Draft "Board Timetable for Review

of CIA Records

I agree with Gunn in the need for a plan and schedule

others are not necessarily the most efficient way of

CIA Sequestered Collection

1. "The 63 boxes"

Record Identification Forms (RIFs) / Identification

Aids: ARRB staff is confused about our process.

We are

currently indexing folders that were "unit" indexed la

single Iden Aid for a folder) and marked Category #1 by ARRB

staff--only seven folders to go.

We don't cut the extract

and create the disk for the Staff until boxes are ready to

be reviewed. We can run the extract program and send them

disk anytime. I don't consider this a review issue.

When Marwell approved the "priority 1" folder approach,

I told him we would complete the review in the Fall. We

appear to be on track to complete the review by the end of

October or early November.

Priority Folders 2, 3 and 4: My understanding with

Marwell was that these

folders would drop to the end of the

list, after HSCA and Microfilm.

To start the review of

these folders in November (to meet 31 Jan 98 deadline) would

divert resources

from other activities and reviews.

It

would also require additional indexing support-- there are

still a number of unit indexed folders in these folders.

Open in Full/Release in Full documents:

Except for a

few folders in boxes 32/33, the Summers completed the

processing of RIF documents through box 38. Boxes 1-19 (1202

documents/3719 pages) have been sent to ARRB for NARA;

boxes 20-38 will go in the next few weeks). I will need to

discuss with Gunn the rest of the Collection. My suggestion

if the complete the DO review of the RIFs, but delay

processing for now.

---

## Page 20

13-00000

2.

HSCA Staff notes: re-review will be completed this

month (HSCA was Marwell top priority).

The Open in full HSCA documents are a processing

headache.

Our copy has be matched against the originals

currently being held by ARRB.

The originals do not have

Iden Aids. This is a time consumer activity.

3. Microfilm

I had planned to start the re-review of the Microfilm

in November (Gunn's date) and his end date (6/30/98) is

beyond what I projected.

Designating specific boxes to be

completed by specific dates is not practical. I will

suggest he designate the number of boxes to be completed by

certain dates if he feels he needs milestones.

ISSUES:

If ARRB insist in our reviewing the Priority 2,3 and 4s

in the hardcopy collections it will slow down the Microfilm

review.

I have had discussion with members of the staff about

doing a

"Priority #1" folder review of the Microfilm. I will

recommend that they do so.

It ensures that the most

important information is release first and avoids both

staffs getting bogged down in processing marginal documents.

We have to decide on the indexing requirements for the

Microfilm (Gunn is proposing that documents containing

redaction be identified individually -- have NARA numbers).

Do we:

a) index all documents

b)

index only documents with redactions

develop an alternative that meets ARRB requirements

but does not include indexing individual documents.

Oswald Microfilm: no problem with Gunn's approach

Working Files

I have a problem with Gunn'

proposal. To index a collection that is primarily duplicates

seems to be a waste of resources. Indexing at the folder

level should suffice for the historians assuming we do not

challenge the designation of the files as assassination

records.

New documents would be indexed individually.

:

---

## Page 21

13-00000

To fully index this collection involves a resource cost

not anticipated when we discussed the completion of the

project by October 1968 with Marwell.

To begin the reviev

of these files by 1 October 1998 is not feasible given other

priorities and current resources.

Additional Records and Referrals: no problem as stated.

Could be resource issue if the number continue to increase.

Not addressed in the memo:

Processing of Open in Full documents

Processing of Duplicates

Oswald Security File

---

## Page 22

13-00000

• Cp 09/18/87

12002

TUE, 12:35 FAX 202 724 0457

ARRB

MEMORANDUM

CIA HAS NO OR JECTION TO

DECLASSIFIGAT ON AND/OR

RELEASE OF CI. INFORMATION.

IN THIS DOCUMENT

September 16, 1997

To:

Review Boarc

"From:

Subject:

T. Jeremy Gunt

Proposed ARRB Timetable for Re

eview of ClA Records

• I. Background

The CIA Team has developed a preliminary timetable that we hope will provide a

reasonable framework for completing our revlew of CIA's assassination records by

August 1, 1998. We are creating this timetable for three purposes:

First, to establish our own working target dates to measure Review Board progress

against the mandatory deadline established by the JFK Act.

Second, to provide CIA with our best assessment of the order and scope of our review

so that it can make its own internal judgments on the proper allocation of its resources.

We provided CIA prior drafts of this memo and solicited its specific advice and

suggestions for better ways to accomplish our goals. [We have not asked CIA to

"agree" to these deadlines, but we have encouraged it to provide alternative

suggestions on how best to meet the August 1 deadline.]

Third, to solicit the Review Board's advice regarding "enforcement" of these (or other)

targets. Although we surely hope that both the ARRB staff and ClA will be able to meet

the targets, and although we certainly plan to make all reasonable accommodations for

problems that no doubt will arise, we nevertheless anticipate that it is possible that CIA

might not be able to keep to these timetables. Thus, we anticipate that there may well

be times when blocks of records scheduled for Board review will not have been fully

processed by CIA. It is our judgment that, in keeping with our commitment to

Congress and to the goals of the JFK Act, we may need to have the Board act on groups

of records for which CIA has not completed its initial review. At the risk of over-

repetition, the ARRB staff seeks to be as reasonable and accommodating as it can on

timetables, provided that any proposed changes are consistent with our obligation to

complete the task. We realize that this review may have resource allocation

*By establishing this target date, we will provide ourselves with a two-month

cushion to handle possible appeals and miscellaneous issues that doubtless will arise.

---

## Page 23

13-00000

09/18/87

TUE 12:35 FAX 202 724 0457

ARRB

ROOST

- 2-

consequences for CIA and we expect to refine this timetable both to minimize the

resource impact and to allow us and the CIA to proceed most efficiently with the ti

review. We also take very seriously our commitment to Congress to complete our work

54N4

on schedule. Is the Board prepared to make decisions on records if CIA has not

completed its review and to enforce those decisions?

Il. Issues applying to all CIA record groups

Records to be opened-in-full

During the course of CIA's review, it frequently identifies records that is it

is prepared to open in full without Board action. Although there is a

benefit in promptly forwarding such records to NARA, it is less expensive

for CIA to process these records during the summer months.

Accordingly, we are prepared to agree with ClA that it may delay.

processing such records, provided that all such processing of open-in-full

records will be completed by August 30, 1998.

Duplicates

CIA will continue to identify duplicates and may process them after all

other documents have been reviewed and transferred to NARA. If the

ARRB is shown that any given record is a duplicate, CIA need not

complete the processing before September 30, 1998.

III. CIA Record Groups

A. Oswald 201 File (17 boxes)

- current status:

review completed (with a few minor exceptions)

B. CIA Sequestered Collection

1. "The 63 boxes"

- current status:

The ARRB staff has completed a survey of the 63 boxes (on the

folder level) and has assigned each folder a relevance priority on a

1 to 4 scale. CIA has completed its declassification review of

roughly 66% of the priority 1 folders.

The ARRB Staff has completed its own review of approximately

50% of the prioxity 1 records and those records have been (or

shortly will) be voted on by the Board.

---

## Page 24

13-00000

2O04

• US/ 18/81

TUE 12:36 FAX 202 724 0457

ARRB

- 3-

- target dates:

Completion of final review of 63 boxes by January 31, 1998.

- time line:

9/30/97

box 10 (priority 1)

10/31/97

box 48 (priority 1)

11/30/97

box 56 (priority 1)

12/31/97

box 63 (priority 1)

1/31/98

all priority 2,3 and 4

2. HISCA Staff notes (originally interfiled in the 63 boxes)

- status:

Record Identification Forms prepared for all documents. CIA

review is 80% complete. ARRB staff completes its review shortly

after receiving records froin CIA.

- target dates:

Complete Board voting by November 18, 1997.

3. Microfilm (72 boxes)

- current Status:

CIA identified approximately 33% of these records as NBR. ARRB

staff has reviewed all CIA NBR designations, and has identified

additional records that should be reviewed by the Board.

The ARRB Staff will discuss with the CIA the preparation of Record

Identification Forms (RIFs or "IDEN aids" in CLA terminology) and

develop a plan that will best facilitate review.

- target dates:

CIA begins review by November 1, 1997 and completes review by

July 1, 1998.

Complete Board determinations by July 31, 1998.

The ARRB staff has.no objection to the records being identified entirely on the

folder level provided that all records in the folder are open-in-full. If there are records

in which the CIA is requesting redactions, those records must be identified

individually. The remainder of open-in-full records may still be identified with one RIF

as being the contents of the same folder.

---

## Page 25

13-00000

09/16/87

202-724 0457

*• ARRB

@ 005

- 4-

- tentative time line:

11/30/97

boxes 1-6

12/31/97

- boxes 7-13

1/31/98

boxes 14-19

2/28/98

boxes 20-25

3/31/98

boxes 26-31 & 44-45

(Boxes 32-43 contain LHO's 201 file, which will

be treated as a special case.)

4/30/98

5/31/98

6/30/98

boxes 46-51

boxes 52-62

boxes 63-72

4. Microfilm copy of Oswald 201 (approximately 12 boxes)

- issue:

The vast majority (if riot all) Oswald Microfilm records are

duplicates of records the Board has already reviewed under the JFK

Act. To the extent that the records previously have been reviewed,

there is little value in re-reviewing the records. The ARRB staff will

survey the Microfilm 201 in an effort to identify any additional

records that have not already been acted upon by the Board. All

records not previously acted upon by the Board will be so

designated, a RIF will be prepared, and they will be sent for Board

action. The remaining Microfilm 201 will be transferred to the JFK

Collection at NARA and opened in full in 2017:

- status:

Staff has completed its initial survey and has thus far identified no

recoras in the 201 Microfilm that are not already in the JiK

Collection.

C. "Working Files" (including "Russ Holmes" papers, etc.)

- status:

No Record Identification Forms have been prepared. ARRB staff

has conducted a general survey.

- target dates:

Work to commence by CIA on October 1, 1997. CIA should

prepare Record Identification Forns for all records by January 1,

1998. Completion of review and Board determinations by March

31, 1998.

---

## Page 26

13-00000

08/18/97

'TUE 12:36 FAX 202 724 0457

ARRB

- 5 -

-strategy:

The "working files" is a group of records that was assembled at

CIA by Russ Holmes. Although he was not asked formally by CIA

to create this separate records group, he did so in order to facilitate

his work and, perhaps, to satisfy his own curiosity. The group

contains many original records (copies of some of which are

already in the collection) and it includes some records of which we

are aware of no other copies. It is the best-organized collection of

assassination records held by CIA. Its value as a reference tool is

greatest as a collection. Therefore, though the file contains many

duplicates of records found in the JFK collection; the ARRB staff

recommends that it be preserved as a single group. Duplicates and

open-in-full documents should be treated in the same manner as

they are in the rest of the JFK Collection As with the microfilm

from the Sequestered Collection, the ARRB staff has no objection to

the records being identified on the folder level provided that all

records in the folder are open-in-full. If there are records in which

CIA is requesting redactions, those records must be identified

individually. The remainder of open in full records may still be

identified with one RIF as being the contents of the same folder.

D. Additional Records

- status:

Research, requests, and negotiations continue to identify and

include additional CIA records for the JFK collection.

Oswald Office of Security File. As a result of an ARRB staff request

for additional information and records, CIA located portions of a

previously undisclosed Office of Security file on Lee Harvey

Oswald. This seven-volume file, of which six parts have been

located, contains two volumes of press clippings, third agency

material on Oswald, a copy of Oswald's address book, and Marina

Oswald's INS file. In the upcoming months CIA will begin to

review and process these materials.

- time line:

Completion by July 31, 1998.

Strategy:

Continue current efforts.

---

## Page 27

13-00000

₫ 007

99182710 12 27F2 202124 0457

ARRB

-б-

E. Referrals

1. HSCA referrals (Numbered files, Security Classified Testimony, etc.)

- status:

most of these records have been reviewed. The datäbase suggests

that a percentage of them has slipped through the cracks.

-target damplete Congressional records to be zelewed by March 97, 398. "

- strategy:

Continue to clarify the status of records. Review any remaining

records.

2 Other referrals (FBI, Church Committee, LBJ Library, JFK Library, etc.)

- status and strategy:

Records will be coordinated and reviewed on a case by case basis.

TyG e: l... Icia ltimetabl.wpd

4.20.7.

---

## Page 28

13-00000

ER 97-4602

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

BEW

October 28, 1997

Mr. David W. Carey

Executive Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, DC 20505

CIA HAS TO ORJECTION TO

DECLASSIMCATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

Re: Completing the Review of IF'K Assassination Records

Dear Mr. Carey:

I would like to congratulate you on your new appointment at the Agency and wish you

the very best of success in the difficult challenges that lie ahead.

As you probably are aware, the Assassination Records Review Board has been

mandated by Congress and the President to oversee the declassification and transfer to

the National Archives of all records related to the assassination of President Kennedy.

During the past three years we have received excellent cooperation from CIA in regard

to the processing of the relevant Agency records. From our perspective, this is due in

significant part to the work of John Pereira, Chief of the Historical Review Group, and

J. Barry Harrelson, who has shouldered the extremely complicated, burdensome, and

frequently thankless task of overseeing the project. Both of them have proved to be

superb representatives of the Agency. We also very much appreciated receiving a

strong message of support from your predecessor, Nora Slatkin, who advised us in a

meeting on October 16, 1996, of her full support for the project and her willingness to

commit the necessary Agency resources to complete the project..

Because the Review Board is now in the final twelve months of its statutory tenure, I

thought it would be appropriate to advise you of our goals for the upcoming year. It is

our wish to be able to state in our Final Report to the President and to Congress that

CIA has made all reasonable attempts to locate, review, and declassify all available

records on the Kennedy assassination. We would like the Review Board to be able to

assure the American people that the Agency has been fully cooperative in this

enormous and difficult task, and that the Agency no longer retains any "secret" files on

the assassination. In addition, we are obligated to keep Congress informed, on a

monthly basis, of the status of our work and any difficulties that would interfere with

our ability to achieve our objective.

Although many important strides have been made to further our goals, we nevertheless

perceive that the pace of review and declassification of Agency records will need to be

---

## Page 29

13-00000

Mr. David W. Carey

October 28, 1997

Page 2

accelerated in order for us to succeed. We must keep in mind that the goal includes

reviewing, processing, and transterring to the custody of the National Archives all

identified assassination records by September 1, 1998. (We do not perceive that

duplicate copies of such records need be transferred by September 1.) Many time-

consuming difficulties inherent in this project have been overcome, and we perceive

that the pace of review is accelerating. Nevertheless, we wanted to signal to you our

concern that, unless the pace of review increases further, we may not be on target to

satisfy what I hope to be our common objective.

It is our firm intention to complete our task within the congressionally mandated time

limit. If CIA is unable to pre-review and process its records consistent with completion

of this task, the Review Board will vote to release-in-full all relevant CIA records and

mandate that custody be transferred to the National Archives in a timely way. We

sincerely hope that it will not be necessary for the Board to make wholesale decisions on

unreviewed records and we will be pleased to work with the Agency to see that such a

step is unnecessary. But we are prepared to make such decisions to the extent they are

required to fulfill our own responsibilities. Although it is our perception that CIA may

wish to devote additional human resources to this project, we of course leave such

decisions to the sound judgment of knowledgeable CIA officials.

We therefore strongly urge the Agency to take all appropriate steps to complete its

review of records in an orderly and systematic manner. To the extent that the Agency is

able to satisfy appropriate deadlines, there will be no need for us to resort to any

unfortunate - but potentially necessary - measures to complete our own obligations to

Congress, the President, and the American people.

If you would find it helpful, the Review Board members and I would be pleased to

discuss these issues with you or others at the Agency.

Sincerely,

-

T. Jeremy

Executive Directo

CC:

Assassination Records Review Board

---

## Page 30

13-00000

•.rmlфntdodi11.01101.000102

..

CIA SPACIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

31 October 1997

Request for Additional Funds for the JFK Assassination

Records

Review Project, through 31 September 1998.

Reference: Ltr. to Executive Director form J. Jeremy Gunn,

Executive Director, Assassination Records Review Board

(ARRB), copy attached.

Background.

1. The ARRB will go out of business on 31 September

1998. Before that date, it has a statutory obligation to

complete its review of all records held by the u.s.

Government which relate to the assassination of President

Kennedy, determine those which are relevant to the

assassination story and ensure that the same are transferred

to the National Archives.

As the board begins its final

year, it has become increasingly concerned about the pace of

the review and transfer process.

Referent letter is the

latest of a number of exchanges

dealing with that concern.

2. CSI/HRG has carefully reviewed its current position

with respect to its ability to meet the deadlines imposed

and has concluded that it cannot fully do so without

additional resources, at least through 30 September 1998:

This conclusion is based in large measure on three changed

circumstances:

A.

The ARRB has recently exercised its statutory

authority and designated additional CIA records to be within

the JFK collection (to date approximately twenty cubic feet

or 40,000 pages). Additional records may be identified

as

the ARRB staff continues its review of Agency files.

B. Over the past three months we have received an

increase in the number of

"Assassination Records" referred

from third agencies which include both Agency documents held

by another agency or third agency documents which must be

reviewed because they contain CIA information; and

C. The ARRB itself has established a deadline which was

not anticipated.

All agencies had understood that the

review process

and ARRB action would have to be completed by

30 September, but it was widely assumed that final

processing and transfer of the documents to the National

Archives could occur after that date. However, the Board has

now mandated that all relevant records which are not

duplicates must be transferred to custody of the National

Archives before it goes out of business.

---

## Page 31

13-00000

i ..

Additional Resources Requested.

3. The following estimate is based on our understanding

of the ARRB requirements at this time.

A. Review of records: equivalent of 2 man-years (3

contractors -- average daily contractor cost

$270) ;

B. Preparation of documents for National Archives:

equivalent of 1.5 man-years (2 contractors

average daily contractor cost $180);

c.

Indexing: approximately one-man year of overtime

($25 hourly rate) ;

D. Reproduction: approximately one-man year of

overtime ($25 hourly rate).

Estimated cost FY98: $300,000

---

## Page 32

13-00000

SECRET

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

CL BY: 705641

CL REASON: Section 1.5 C

DECL ON: X1

DRV FRM: COV 2-87

NOTE FOR:

Brian S. Latell

FROM:

(Rebecca V. Strode)

OFFICE:

DCI

DATE:

11/05/97 07:27:26 PM

SUBJECT: CSI Resource Request regarding JFK

I passed to the EXDIR the information Bob Leggett provided regarding the possible resource implications

of the letter from the Assassination Records Review Board Executive Director, T. Jeremy Gunn, and the

possibility that you will ask that some of the $5.5 million additional money Congress has added for

declassification be allocated to this task (and perhaps also the Korea project). I also showed him Gunn's

letter. The EXDIR asks that you provide him the following information:

, What is the size of the JFK declassification problem? How much work remains to be done?

How many people do you have working on the JFK project now?

What difference would X more make?

CC:

(Robert E. Leggett, Patricia F. Duryee, Rodney A. Snyder, Rex H. Latham-C-

Sent on 5 November 1997 at 07:27:26 PM

SECRET

---

## Page 33

13-00000

CIA SPECIAZ. COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

ADMINISTRATIVE

wink cord

INTERNAT USE ONLY

21 November 1997

FOR:

D/EXDIR

JFK PROJECT

-

The following is in response to your request for a

statement "reaffirming" CSI's commitment to apply available

resources to complete the processing of records related to

the assassination of President Kennedy.

As Jeremy Gunn stated in his letter of 28 October to the

EXDIR,

the pace of reviewing JFK-related documents is

accelerating.

He also stated that the JFK Board has

established 1 September 1998 as the deadline for all

agencies to finish the processing of records and transfer

them to the National Archives.

In order to complete all the necessary tasks required by

the Board and meet the deadline, we will clearly need to

increase the resources now dedicated to JFK. There are a

growing number of requests from the Board to review records

from both CIA and other agencies, to search files for

additional information, and to brief the Board and its

staff.

At present, one staff officer and 13 part time

independent contractors are devoted to JFK.

In addition, we

draw on a small CSI computer unit for support and share

overtime employees who perform indexing and document copying

for the Center.

In the absence of additional resources being provided

from elsewhere, CSI (or OIM) will need to shift resources

from other projects to JFk for all tasks to be done on time.

ouch as that on.

One option is to interrupt other declassification projects,

such as that on DI finished intelligence on the Soviet

Union,

and the Guatemala covert action, and assign reviewers

and others working on those projects to JFK. The moves

would need to happen in the next few weeks.

Another important consideration is that the

directorates, particularly the DO, will need to increase

their resources to keep pace with HRG. These resources are

required to coordinate declassification of records and to

prepare responses for requests from the Board for additional

information and files.

Whatever resource adjustments are made to bolster the

effort on JFK, there will still be an unpredictable factor

that could require a surge in additional resources later.

This stems from the potentially large number of documents .

from the FBI and other agencies containing CIA equities that

---

## Page 34

13-00000

the Board could ask us to review.

There is a good chance

that such documents will surface near the September

deadline, which would leave little time to complete the

processing.

---

## Page 35

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

10 Dec 97

NOTE FOR:

Ed Cohen

Jim Oliver

FROM :

John Pereira, HRG

SUBJECT:

JFK/Resource Priority

Attached are four items that provide background on the

issues that have been discussed with Dave Carey and Gina

senton with regard to the Agency's need to. commit sufficient

resources to declassify JFK records.

The items include an exchange of letters between Carey

and the JFK Board, a statement prepared by me at Gina's

request, and a note reflecting congressional concern. Gina

is being briefed on

the last item today.

Aside from providing you with background, the items also

present a sense of why it is important that we assure that

resources i.e., independent contractors remain

available so that the Agency meets the deadline for

declassifying the JFK documents.

John Pereira

==

.

---

## Page 36

13-00000

utt.

J. 1JJ1

6. 645M

NU. 1939

r. 6

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

21 November 1997

CSI 97-536

DI. I. Jeremy Gunn

Executive Director

Assassination Records

Review Board

600 E Street, NW

Washington, DC 20530

Dear DI. Gunn:

Thank you for your letter of 28 October in which you

outline the Assassination Records Review Board's goals for

the coming year.

I appreciate the complimentary remarke you

made about the "excellent cooperation" that CIA has been

providing to the Board.

You raised a concern that the Agency may not be able to

increase sufficiently the pace of the review process to meet

the 1 September 1998 deadline for completing the traisfer of

records to the National Archives. You also expressed the

view that if any records are not reviewed by the deadline,

the Board will vote to release them in full and mandate that

custody be transferred to the National Archives.

You can be assured that we are conmitted to taking all

necessary steps to meet our statutory obligation to review

all of the Agency's assassination-related materials.

It is

important that a proper review of all relevant records be

done. This will allow us to recoumend to the Board what

information warrants continued protection.

We appreciate the great responsibility that Congress

and: the President have given to the Board to inform the

American people about the assassination.

We share the

Board's goal of declassifying and releasing the relevant

records to the fullest extent possible.

Please convey my regards to Chairman Tunheim and the

other Board

members, and assure them of our continued

cooperation.

Sincerely,

Dund W. Cany

David W. Carey

DCI

EXEC

REG

---

## Page 37

13-00000

1UN

ER 97-4602

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 - Fax: (202) 724-0457

6 W

October 28, 1997

Mr. David W. Carey

Executive Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, DC 20505

Re:

Completing the Review of TEK Assassination Records

Dear Mr. Carey:

I would like to congratulate you on your new appointment at the Agency and wish you

the very best of success in the difficult challenges that lie ahead.

As you probably are aware, the Assassination Records Review Board has been

mandated by Congress and the President to oversee the declassification and transfer to

the National Archives of all records related to the assassination of President Kennedy.

During the past three years we have received excellent cooperation from CIA in regard

to the processing of the relevant Agency records. From our perspective, this is due in

significant part to the work of John Pereira, Chief of the Historical Review Group, and

J. Barry Harrelson, who has shouldered the extremely complicated, burdensome, and

frequently thankless task of overseeing the project. Both of them have proved to be

superb representatives of the Agency. We also very much appreciated receiving a

strong message of support from your predecessor, Nora Slatkin, who advised us in a

meeting on October 16, 1996, of her full support for the project and her willingness to

commit the necessary Agency resources to complete the project.

Because the Review Board is now in the final twelve months of its statutory tenure, I

thought it would be appropriate to advise you of our goals for the upcoming year. It is

our wish to be able to state in our Final Report to the President and to Congress that

CIA has made all reasonable attempts to locate, review, and declassify all available

records on the Kennedy assassination. We would like the Review Board to be able to

assure the American people that the Agency has been fully cooperative in this

enormous and difficult task, and that the Agency no longer retains any "secret" files on

the assassination. In addition, we are obligated to keep Congress informed, on a

monthly basis, of the status of our work and any difficulties that would interfere with

our ability to achieve our objective.

Although many important strides have been made to further our goals, we nevertheless

perceive that the pace of review and declassification of Agency records will need to be

BoAro MemneRs: John R. Tunheim. Cheir • Henry F. Graff - Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

EXICUTIVE DIMECTOR: David G. Marwall

---

## Page 38

13-00000

Mr. David W. Carey

October 28, 1997

Page 2

accelerated in order for us to succeed. We must keep in mind that the goal includes

reviewing, processing, and transferring to the custody of the National Archives all

identified assassination records by September 1, 1998. (We do not perceive that

duplicate copies of such records need be transferred by September 1.) Many time-

consuming difficulties inherent in this project have been overcome, and we perceive

that the pace of review is accelerating. Nevertheless, we wanted to signal to you our

concern that, unless the pace of review increases further, we may not be on target to

satisfy what I hope to be our common objective.

It is our firm intention to complete our task within the congressionally mandated time

limit. If CLA is unable to pre-review and process its records consistent with completion

of this task, the Review Board will vote to release-in-full all relevant CIA records and

mandate that custody be transferred to the National Archives in a timely way. We

sincerely hope that it will not be necessary for the Board to make wholesale decisions on

unreviewed records and we will be pleased to work with the Agency to see that such a

step is unnecessary. But we are prepared to make such decisions to the extent they are

required to fulfill our own responsibilities. Although it is our perception that CIA may

wish to devote additional human resources to this project, we of course leave such

decisions to the sound judgment of knowledgeable CIA officials.

We therefore strongly urge the Agency to take all appropriate steps to complete its

review of records in an orderly and systematic manner. To the extent that the Agency is

able to satisfy appropriate deadlines, there will be no need for us to resort to any

unfortunate - but potentially necessary - measures to complete our own obligations to

Congress, the President, and the American people.

If you would find it helpful, the Review Board members and I would be pleased to

discuss these issues with you or others at the Agency.

Sincerely,

T. Jeremy G

Executive Directo

CC:

Assassination Records Review Board

---

## Page 39

13-00000

::

..PEd6h/,1 /01.0, 1 44.111311.89719

ADMINISTRATIVE • INTERNAL USE ONLY

From the Desk of J. Barry Harrelson

NOTE FOR:

FROM:

OFFICE:

DATE:

SUBJECT:

Staffing FY 1997:

Current Staffing / FY 1998:

Additional FY 98 Staffing needed:

The FY 98 above does not include:

Lee Strickland @ DA

John Pereira @ DCI

J. Barry Harrelson

OIMIHRP

01/29/98 11:43:38 AM

JFK Collection and Resources

1 Staff employee, 13 Cs, 3 summer employees

3 ADP contractors

1 full time staff employee, 1 part-time staff employee

20 ICs, 3 ADP contractors

4ICs

1 man-year (est) of overtime reproduction support

1 man-year (est) of overtime indexing support

5 summer employees or equivalent

wELLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

Examples of JFK Records:

Oswald 201 File

Sequestered Collection:

25,000 pages

30,000 Pages of HSCA material

100,000 Pages of hardcopy material (from the investigation)

72 Reels (160,000 pages) of Microfilm including:

26 Reels of 201 Files

5 Reels of Personnel Files

13 Reels of Cuban related material

plus reels on DO organization, project and operation

files,Mexico City Station files, Nosenko files, and

material in the hardcopy collection.

duplicates of

All figures are approximate; I have not included working files (20 + boxes) and referrals.

Sent on 29 January 1998 at 11:43:38 AM

Follow up discussin wl Lee d Rusty 12/45

* need 4 people, 4day@wk,tmanths, =

Ruster has actic

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 40

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE • INTERNAL USE ONLY

4 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

John Pereira @ DCI

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer

OFFICE:

OIM/HRP

SUBJECT:

Additional JFK Resources

REFERENCE:

Previous discussions with you and Lee Strickland

As we discussed, the JFK Project has an immediate need for "IA" type support over the next four months (Feb-May/June). |

estimate that we need at least the equivalent of four persons, four days @ week or 272 work days. Based on the figures provided by

Rich Warshaw ($27 @ hr), the cost will be approximately $59,000 to cover the four months. Unless we receive the five requested

"summer onlys", we will need an additional $70,000 (325 work days) for lA support to complete those project tasks which must

completed by 1 September.

There is also a need for additional overtime indexing support. I estimate we will need an additional 2 or 3 indexers to keep

pace with the reviewers. Does OIM have any indexers who would be interested in working on the JFK project?

CC:

Sent on 4 February 1998 at 09:22:09 AM

ADMINISTRATIVE • INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 41

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE • INTERNAL USE ONLY

6 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Lee S. Strickland @ DA

FROM:

John F. Pereira

OFFICE:

CSI/HRP

SUBJECT:

Additional JFK Resources

REFERENCE:

IMMEDIATE REQUEST

We request your approval to add short-term IC resources to the JFK effort immediately as outlined in Barry Harrelson's request below.

Funds would be needed to reimburse ADD.

This request has taken on additional urgency, because the Board has returned to us 700 documents that need to be checked and

prepared quickly for release to NARA. (Each month, additional batches of documents are returned to us.) As I mentioned earlier, we have

talked with Warshaw, who is prepared to provide the lA resources (contractors) once we have agreed to reimburse him.

Original Text of J. Barry Harrelson

Original Text of J. Barry Harrelson

4 February 1998

4 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

John Pereira

FROM:

J. Barry Harre/son

JFK Project Officer

OIM/HRP

OFFICE:

SUBJECT:

Additional JFK Resources

REFERENCE:

Previous discussions with you and Lee Strickland

As we discussed, the JFK Project has an immediate need for "IA" type support over the next four months (Feb-May/June). /

estimate that we need at least the equivalent of four persons, four days @ week or 272 work days. Based on the figures provided loy

Rich Warshaw ($27 @ hrl, the cost will be approximately $59,000 to cover the four months. Unless we receive the five requested

"summer onlys". we will need an additional $70,000 (325 work days) for A support to complete those project tasks which must

completed by 1 September.

There is also a need for additional overtime indexing support. / estimate we will need an additional 2 or 3 indexers to keep

pace with the reviewers. Does OIM have any indexers who would be interested in working on the JFK project?

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 42

13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

11 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

OFFICE:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Lee S. Strickland @ DA

Glenn R. Jacobs @ DA

John F. Pereira

Nancy E. Morgan @ DA

OIM

Action: Review SAIC Contract Costs for JFK

Lee et. al.: I have asked Jeffry to send us the detailed cost breakout by month. Now what I

need from all of you is what level of effort you think you will need beyond 30 Sep, whether you

will need surge support to make Sept. deadline, etc. I also need to review this amount against

$$ to be transferred from HRG for FY 98 to make sure we can cover the bill. Tha, Nancy

Original Text of Jeffry S. Snyder

Original Text of Jeffry S. Snyder)

From the Desk of

From the Desk of Jeffry S. Snyder

DCI/SMS Customer Service Team - Phone 46060

NOTE FOR:

FROM:

OFFICE:

DATE:

SUBJECT:

{Joanne R. Abbott @ DCI

(Nancy E. Morgan)

(Celeste Stretton Knowles @ DC/

Jeffry S. Snyder @ DCI

DC/ISMS

02/11/98 11:29:58 AM

SAIC Contract Costs

Hello to All-

l've received an estimate from SAIC for contract costs for our next option period, 1 Apr 98 - 31 Mar 99. I wanted to get this information

to you early for planning purposes. / stress that these figures are estimates because we would like to change our contract vehicle from

the current Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee (CPFF) to a Cost-Plus-Award-Fee (CPAF contract. With the current CPFF contract, we have very little

leverage to ensure quality service. Although we have not had any problems with SAIC to date, we would feel more comfortable with a

CPAF vehicle. SAIC has not been notified yet of our desire to change.

We currently pay an 8% fee on our CPFF contract. Because, in switching to CPAF contract, the contractor assumes more risk, our fee

offer will probably go up to 9% or 9.5% (our original position will be to remain at 8%. In your planning you may want to add the

difference to give you a grand total.

Right now the pricing, broken down by office for 1 Apr 98 - 31 Mar 99, is:

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 43

13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

CS/:

HRG/OIM:

NIC:

$48,630

$437,665 **

$360,251

**Nancy' If you'd like a breakdown of your costs, please let me know.

OFL/Contracts will begin negotiations with SAIC sometime this month. In the past we have incrementally funded our contract so I don't

expect we'll need the total up front. That being said, Contracts will probably require 50% commitments from each office lif you want to

fully fund the effort, please feel free). I'll keep you posted as / receive more information.

{Jeffry

CC:

(Janet W. Donovan @ DCI

Patricia F. Duryee@ DCl

Sent on 11 February 1998 at 11:29:58 AM

CC:

Sent on 11 February 1998 at 04:14:40 PM

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 44

13-00000

.. ..

presentatio

Administrative

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONaL Use Only

RELEASE IN FULL

3 June 1998

2000

Talking Points For Meeting of the Historical Review Panel

Subject: JFK Assassination Records Review Project

Background (1992 - 1995)

The setting up of the Historical Review Program

coincided with growing interest in Congress to require

agencies to declassify records related to the assassination

of President Kennedy.

a. DCI Gates decided to start declassification process

before Congress passed legislation

--

b. DCI testified in Congress about "Openness Policy"

(May 1992)

--First folder of OSWALD 201 (also know as the

pre-assassination file) released

c. JFK Act passed late 1992:

--Called for Presidential-appointed Assassination

Records Review Board (ARRB).

d. First two years the Program focused on JFK with two

major releases (August 1993 and August 1994)

-- Approximately 227,000 pages from CIA files were

released in full or in sanitized form

Committee 03c

-- In addition reviewed material at NARA (Wairen

Committee), SSCI (Church Committee) and Ford

Library (Rockefeller Commission) plus numerous

referrals from other Agencies (FBI, STATE, Army, etc.)

e.

The Assassination Records Review Board did not

actually begin reviewing documents until May 1995.

--Reasons: Delays in appointment of members and

hiring of staff and the time required to obtain

security clearances

Administrative - Internal Use Only

---

## Page 45

13-00000

Administrative - Internal Use Only

ARRB (1995 to present)

Board's interpretation of the law created a time-

onsuming, labor intensive review process

i11 sanitized records had be reviewed by the Boarc

and action taken on each postponed item.

Specific evidence of current harm was required for

each postponement.

a. HRP began a re-review of the material previously

release.

-- Approximately 80% of the 227,000 pages release

in 1993/1994 contained deletions.

- Resources added to JFK project to meet Board's

monthly deadlines (reviewers borrowed from other

projects.

evidence so defecan commended pust ementsed to prepare

time cost comparable to court legations

-- Frequently only a few documents or words are

at issue.

- usually the information is marginal or not

germane to the assassination story.

EXAMPLES:

*It took over two weeks of staff time, numerous

meetings, and at least two Board sessions to protect

the specific location of an Agency's facility in a few

documents. The release of the location would have added

assassination story.

* 100s of hours have been expended in research to

protect approximately 2000 names of agency employees

and assets that appear in the material.

-

Administrative - Internal Use Only

---

## Page 46

13-00000

Administrative - Internal Use Only

ARRB Special requests/searches for additional

records have added to the overall cost of the project. .

-- 34 written requests, some requiring screening large

blocks of records from

the archives including files

Office of the DDCI and DDP files for the JFK time-frame

(1959-64) in search of additional records.

-- Others require extensive research such as checking

old financial and travel records.

d. (Summer 1997) Additional resources added to the JFK

project as a result of changes in ARRB's review process that

greatly increased the Board's ability to act on documents.

-- Dramatic increase in the number of documents

acted on by Board each month:

March 1997 -

92 documents

March 1998 - 1281 documents

e. Board receives extension through FY 1998; mandated

completion of review by September 1998.

- Starting in December 1997, reviewers (11)

shifted from other projects to JFK to meet the

Board's deadline;

= ADP and support staff also increased;

-- currently over 35 FTE dedicated to the JFK

review project.

f. Project does not end in September; significant

amount of work preparing duplicates for NARA

Current Status of JEK Records Review

Agency Files: Reviewed over 300,000 pages

Released approximately 230,000 pages

...

Referrals:

Approximately 95,000 pages

from other agencies, NARA, Congress

Re-review: approximately 80% complete

New material: Duplicate check 2/3 complete

[Lee -- I will have a more detailed breakdown at the

meetingl

Administrative - Internal Use Only

---

