# 104-10433-10131

## Page 1

1104-10433-10131

UNCE SSIFIED

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TERNAL

¿ ONLY

COM? ENTIAl

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Ophonol)

FROM:

EXTENSION

NO.

B-75

CI/Ober

DATE.

6537

9 April 1968

TO: (Oriese jesignosion, room number, and

DATE

building;

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS.

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number. eoch comment la show fram whom

I whom. Die i fee pite eoch comment).

1.

2.

Originated' by: DDP/WH/7/JATS

MIClaypool

8 April 1968

Based on: Kingston 4004

(IN 86537);

Kingston 4005

-(IN 87116)

Disseminated to: FBI (Mr. Papiq)

on 9 April 1968

7.

i?.

12.

13.

i3.

15.

FORM

3-0=

DEED

- Dap KiNgStON

File: 4B-Memos (record copy)

cc: WH/

cc:

Martin Luther King

(sensitive)

EYES ONLY

610 MUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE GHLY

72

570

B-75

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

A7R 138

MEMORANDU*

SUBISCT

Attempted Anti-U.S. Demonstrations in Kingsion

following Assassisation of Martin Luther King

1.

According: to the Special Branch of the Jamaica

Security Service, there are four groupe trying io instigato

denonstrations agajast the American Embassy in Kingston,

Jamaica, since the assassination of Nartin Luther King, but

they have set with no success.

A group of Janaican loitiats, includiag

" Winston Monroe, are in contact with an unnaned Black

PopeI advocate

from the United States who arrived in

Jamaica some time during the week of 1-6 ADill.

It

was not known whether he arrived before or after the

assassination.

The Special Branch advised our representative

in Kingston that it had learned that the group planned

to send a small delegation to the arga near the

American Embassy around noon on 8 April to sze whather

they could start any disturbances.

The group had

considered stoning the inbassy, but gave up this idea.

The Black Power advocate irom

the United States is

reported to have commented that since the Goyerment

of Janaica is in complete sympathy with Dr. King, 12

wil1 be dlifloult to get denonstrations started.

The

police blieve it is uncertain coat the group vill

take any action.

the police are expected to have a

stand-by force to most any adverse development, and

feel that they can control the sizuation.

D.

Leroy innis, President oi the Guild oi Under

graduates of the University of the lest indies city,

tried to get UNi students to demonstrata, but without

succe33.

Tield Comment:

The students ars on vecation

and are not scheduled to returs to classes uatil

Tuesday, 9 April, so tbay are iree for action, 11 any

spark catches.)

FULL TEN WOVE - DO NOT RELEASE

2y Febas

945 020593

---

## Page 3

13-00000

c. Prince buster, Jamalcan leader of tao Black

Huslin Moverent, Is awalting word Iron hubanned AlI,

Black Muslla leader in the Valted States. No active

plans or organizing is under way.

d. Mortiner Planer, a Pastafarion who participated

in i tenonstration against the British High Connission

over the Rhodesian hangings, has contacted some students

and members of his own following. These students said

they rould back Planer.

Thare 13 no Inforpation auzil-

ablo, bonover, on the timing or status of Planar's

eliDIts.

2. The American Ambassador in Kingston has been in-

DDP/WH/7/ JATS/$JClaypool: dm

8 April 1968

Distribution:

Orig and

I - FBI

2 - Mr. Ober, CI/OPS/DO

1 - C/WH/FI

1 - WH/7/ JATS

Based on:

KINGSTON 4004 (IN 86537)

KINGSTON 4005 (IN 87116)

---

