T OF tei}
HN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS AC’ r ,
104 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F.
“"to4-10216-10097| | 2022

B §
ar Bae

2 ane 190020

: : au
Pafororont Stace
macloa sree

Ia rely te your Lot
a8 ho proscat tine concer:
throu a Lextco cr
make every @ tem
ee0a as any infom-t

Se T 0 co-rect Polish
A

:
Goby the Polich
Ent 88 perron.t ance

form ivish ta

slle->dly stated

_ 20n ©, no S.
exployed 12211 09 0 Cer.
Sa vas

ee la eddtttoas a re-ort on the Aaerlonns:
peblinved ta ime 19+:

Activities, BMeted

Law Con re,
9 ty the Conmutttes oa Oa.
the nese of bucene Jali z



W

80 DBers00g

Prepared bye 3B =FDu/Poli
red FDS Poland

2 dune

Nereest ste
SECRET
wonber of the Polish dolozation ef the Anerfourdlay

Concresas

Very teuly yourey

Altea Childs



14-0000 i

hn ne

toon

a 5

Megs Ota Biaayit, Brge bas

1. The folloving req:ost was received from theDepartaent of Comnerces

-2. Our reply to Comorce war as fellover

wing infermation, amesutte which ©
ie s¥a subzitted fer your infereation eslys

a. Recent tafornation received frem FBI ineicated that
Eugene JASINSKI belongs to «
ergsnirations in the United Staten; tha
with Pelich naaufacturere in the United sti
he reportedly te

at, it ie quite likely thet® he je
f.00 intermediory fer POLASCO, (Polisb-Aneri cea Suppty Company)
ball-teering transaction, ow SAScon 7

dalledecrings are sold in cone
ehtpped to an irenscurtain couatry, it 4
wmaid bo transported on Polioh ehips te
Gouth Ancrican porte,

uth Amoricaa country and ,
at “likely that they uscee
lag the varieus

opm auuet

ape.



Bepr. of Commerce. :
6 Apr. So Ciltot,) ;
Re? Gnu) Ashinsky er Ashiask; ;
Lrvine Dautlson , Compla inact

17 -1310-TW, ;
23-5] :

State dep? Sere ss- et ;

Cne Aare : He :
et Davielsin, ZiTrving .

