# 104-10433-10008

## Page 1

1104-10433-10008

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

33 - 537

23 November 1963

Disposition - This document was denied. The document is a memo

which recites the speculative thinking of an Agency officer on the assassination

of President Kennedy. The paper deals with a possible explanation of the

assassination. He treats the problem experimentally with a thesis which is

not born out by facts available then or later developed. The thinking

expressed was imaginative but not definitive.. No decision was based on

this paper: It appears clearly to be the type of documents contemplated for

exemption under subsection (b) (5). The document also relates information

received from aforeign liaisch service. It contains information from and

about a sensitive source. The document also identifies Agency officers and

components anu coatins internal Agency fling instructions. This denia!

was made under the authority of exemptions (b) (1), (b) (2) , (b) (3) and

(b) (5).

---

## Page 2

13-00000

83at

(5X-25598

1'0:

Assistant Deputy Director, Plans

FrOm:

Chief, (gR/cI)

¡PITILES

Subject: "Caple Cuter, SR Division, re Possible KGB role In Kennedy

1.

The following 1s the text of a cable from Chief, SR DivIsion,

sent

vIa closed channel from Frankfurt at 23162) on 23 November, for the attention

of It. Angleton:)

"I. I desire that you consider these reactions to the Kennedy

assassination:

Within minutes of the first news, Moscow radio statements

as heard in London attributed the assassination to "right

ving elements." Only as the true identity of the believed

assassin became know did Moscow begin to complain that

U.s. reactionaries were using Oswald as a pawn.

b. should not the assigment of 13th Dept. officers to the KGB

residency in the united Nations In New York be considered

In & new light?

c.. I aiscovered from Artaur Vestin

during our long

and exceptionally valuable discussions,

that one of Harold

Wilson's principal scientific advisors 1s Captain Ian Maxwell,

who has a long Sovlet intelligence background.

This may

shed new light on AlTADLE's report F.e., that Harold Wilson

may be & Soviet agent?

2. Putting it baldly, was Oswald, wittingly or wittingly, part of

a plot to murder President Kennedy in Dallas as an attempt to

further exacerbate sectionel strife and render tie U.S, overment

less capable of dealing with soviet initiatives over the nexi

year? (I ABLADLE'S VIEWS On Wilson and the information noted in

paragraph le above have any substance (and they cannot be ignored)

this suggests that we can expect major Soviet pressures over the

next several months, for which the Sovlets have made careful,

Jong-range preparations."

2.

The above reference to 13th Dept. officers in New York refers to the

presence, reported by an FBI penetration of the KGB locally, In New York or

Washington of one or two known officers of the 13th Department of the lst Chief

Directorate (Foreign Intelligence) of the KGB. This department is charged with

"Iiquid sifairs," sabotage and assassination.

One of the 13th Depte afficers,

33

Document Number

-537

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 1 6 APR 1975

for FOLA Review on APR 1976

RECORD COPY

E/82 IMPDET CL. BY 0/2.208

2310r63

201-289248)

---

## Page 3

13-00000

y the nay, met clandestinely with a Soviet "exchange student" from &

Pennsylvania university during the school year 1962-63, which suggests that

the Sovlet student is also a 13th Dept. officer or agent. Perhaps

signifIcantly, his course of studies was In food chemistry!

3. You will note that Mr. Murpay's comments come without benefit o

le traces we passed to you earlier today, showing that Oswald had contaci

ith & 13th Dept., representative in Mexico City.

4. Another recently-arrived cable, being sent to the Director tonight,

austests that Oswald's business with the Soviet Consul was connected with bis)

Own visa to the USSR and Cuba (in transit) and may, therefore, have been

really rather than ostensibly innocent.

(E. X, RACISE)

---

