“(10410120-10373) 2022 RELI F
{to6-10120-10373) | _ [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRES ENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(is

- : 28 February 1961
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
FRO! +. Chief, 98/2 Desk

SUBJECT: COVER, - GENERAL eee
(Propos3l for ARE “Assessment of Potential
REDSKIN Agent Candidates)
#90682

1. Reference is made to my previous memorandum pertaining
seagiatottaaetinaaa? to the Subject as captioned, ending with the Memorandum for the
Record dated 21 February 1961.

: 2. AAs. indicated in the ¢ ed sndun, CCG feels
that tHe(PSYCHOLOGICAL A % y(see copy of SR
_ Memoran dated_3 February |: 1y-

Febrv2ry 1961) should e

as a result of a conversation between Mr. Howard OSBORNE,

Deputy Chief, SR Division, and Mr. Jack SOUTHARD, Chief, ccc /Nc..

3. A meeting was called on 27 February 1961 to determine
the type of cover organization that should be substituted for
this purpose. After considering the matter at,length, it was

scertained that the Agency has a cleared service in

(0 @ittsburgh) which could possibly b utilized as an initial q
assessment. This firn, the vuasuuroh, Pemayhe
is located in the Union Trust Build: , Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.) |O
and is managed By @argaret_A. KFARNEY)(see SSD File 95018).
It was agreed that if th could
provide the needed cover, two OTR psychologists would be docu-
mented in true name with that firm in(Pittsburglhlo ccG (Frank
.., O'MALLEY) will make a trip to(ittsburgh),in the next few days
to determine whether Miss (KEARNEY) beg to the proposed
Z| arrangement. The two psychologist$' elected were Doctors

[oosn3s

BRADT and} KEF,Jon whom credit checks were recently completed
fe. ith negative results as to Agency employment.
oad

yee ot h. It was further ascertained at this time that Mr.
{7 ~ Howard OSBORNE desired that all training and assessment of
REDSXIN Agents who pass the initial screening be conducted



" KUHNKS sed (2-28-61)

ec: SSD #795018 ‘

outside the Washington, D. C. area. Most of the training will i;
be conducted in an SR safe house in New York. The SR represen- i
tative will probably request a safe house in Baltimore for the it
final assessment and processing of those REDSKIN Agents that :

are cleared in the initial screening by either BRADT’ or ¥icKEE) 06 :

It should be noted at this point’ that SR Division plans H

process thirty or thirty-five REDSKIN Agents this year. Time
is, of course, of the essence, in view of the fact that these

people will have t- be assessed, security-cleared, briefed,

and trained, and arrangements for grants made before the sumer
season. -

PENDING

i
at
t
‘

ny tue Ves i

