# 104-10187-10017

## Page 1

1-00004 в

104-10187-10017

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MOUSE SAME COMMIT MY 15505H1S00NS STAPE M01.8S

(NEMETU /LICALLA

Base House

INCLUSIVE DATES: 25 June

1357 - 33741

193

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

LAIDDO

pois: 3C,34

DELETIONS, TF. AVY:-

TSATIS

PECH I VEN RETURNED

184, 15

25. JUL 1978

10/31

15 NDI.28

11/20/28

10,5

FINENED BY

(PINT INNIE)

STONATURE OF

REVIEWING OFFICENT.

HARDWAY

HAROWAV

DAN HARDINA

HARDWAY

da dway

litangling

Handway

Bandway

NO DUCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED GI.

REMOVED FROM THIS ETI:.

RETRED FILE

DESENSITZED

Der 19-X0-17

5 32012

LIEMPTY/LICALIA

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONPIDENTIAL

FORM

2593

17-131

---

## Page 3

SECRET

FROM: (Hoadquarters compononi,

DH/1

TO

SUBJECT ANO PROJECT FILE REQUEST

AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

то.

IP/AN

(Sialton Baro)

Nesico City

FROM: (01y18100)

WHD

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

COMPLETE ITEMS I TNROVON IS.

TEN S'-ALL FAR TITLES MUST BE STERILE SINCE INSY WILL

IPPEAR ON-THE TICLO COPIES'AND ON MACHINE LISTS.

TEM TO-ENICA OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING A

TITLE.

•CITE

ANY FILES: SUCH-AS PUI OR THOSCY FILES THAT AME RE-

LATIO TO THE FiLE COULNCO UY THIS REGULOT ITEM NO MAY

ALSO DE USCO TO CIVI MASONS PON THE ACTION BEING REL

QUESTIO

7O, IDENTITY INF TYPE OF MATERAL-TO UE PLACED

iN ATHLE OR TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATOHY REMAHKS...

ITEM YAND O-USS FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH STAI

•BOLS FOR FIELD STATIONS

AND LIST HEADQUANTERS ALE.

MAM I-ARECOROS OFFICE MUST SKIM ALL PILE ACTION RE-

MENTS ACCORDINO TÓ ESTABLISHED NUMERIC COOLS.

QUESTS: CONSULT YOUN MADON ANY PHONELMS THAT ARIE.

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

CODE IFILEI NUMDEH

COUNTHY MUMOLE

CArAOONI NUNNER

-ISPECIFIC CURVICT NUMDER

SUDJECT

PROJECT

050

006

1 074/7

D. FILE TITLE ¡SPECUTE SUBJECTI IPHOJECIS LIMITED TO IS SPACESI

KDFACTOR / KDLITERAL

ACTION REQUIRED

OPEN FILE

AMEND FILE TITLE

B. REMARKS FOR FIELD DISTHINUTIONI

ANALYSIS ACTION

CLOSE PILE MORITE DISPOSITIONI

HEOPEN

HETAIN

DISPOSITION

DISTRUCTION RECOMMENUED

THRU IDATE

7. INTERESTEO STATIONS IPROJECTS ONLY,

HAM

HOLD IN

CS FILES

RESTRICTED

FILESACTION

UNRESTRICTED

10. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL MLADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONSI

8. INTEHESTEO MEADQUARTERS DESK TLE, TACTION DESK FIRSTY

050

CHAHGE PERMANINTLY TO

'OFFICEH @ DESKI

FRICARE FOLDEN AND

SEND TO AEQUESTER

ENDORSEMENT

SIGNATURE OF BRANEN/DESH A. O.

Trimso #630

EFFECTNE DATE

23 July 1973

OBSOLElL PHEVIOUS

FORM.

12÷63

812

EDITIONS

N1612-69

12.

COORDINATION

SIGNATUNE DF DRANCHUESK. A. O.

INiTEN APPLICABLEI

50

SECRET

13.

RID APPROVAL:

HEQUEST APPROVLO OF

CODE IFILES NUI

Daly Ecua

06

74/7

38

1-68 COPY

---

## Page 4

-00000

4300

4mmw 69t

3/12/5%

S0u.: Photo.

---

## Page 5

DISPATCH

SECHET

Note to

2500.124

cain

ност:

Mor of statton, Macer ally

LET/MOCURLY DE LITIC, LOONE CAN LICIEN

піта поши

Alan Requireds Pr Your Lucration

Fritait, tan astos tr, IraDATo a SPrUiTtY melisa, trailudini blo orlalona, on

Puer vaTason nt USHiNE - murt, sale mo maniral on 2i roccabor 1'56.

MEANIC

?.

In 1t0 imant to luation WInc In the moost of the shots bases

19E5et If any orde ty eDe dirloto lo tia raally's arno to tis nry apartenurt

nor sas thoro In tha paol aTs abut at Intainos us parallar lebasin un thair

do under photo survelllanco.

So... To 00s 10r too tert cartial on hy tula bago to dood olace the

MISO, WANPTY-lA, von duno saet of lEs vart Ras In intablo In justlylns

Dos panesaro it buse all of lba los, Fio on, LTDIPTY-TT 10 6 rollani

stators and attarts ala rlands negglarly ana con juntity dio surino as

ailantlune ne tha posl us tula; lla soroses toar in Dodleal sonorl, Aerually,

3 = 52101/1500

LICALLA

AS SOTTES 10

5994-54577302 AND ¡NONSEN

5344-12264

01588KAItON

SSCRET

DAIX

24 January 1867

50-6-32/3

---

## Page 6

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

a Trio not-up in len old as sall do the dire case le lia follorlos!

The equipari, - casara, tipo and tripil - l0 saunted in sui bodmora boried

unnotian bllrade met a ilai recastel, Tula Miara In lockeil tO. ADep serrants

ur any charice intruier fra amoring.

Tor operators du nit apart sill thalr

Elas bahla the casira, lut do to the attainin bedra vera a talle end

typerMItor are aol up ed vero the dally lugu an inmaritas, tuttins dono,

or sono stint actlulty liat demo not rejutre pill mixmitratiin lo cartled out.

Tha curlalne aral tilts in thie Mta aro kope partlally or Milly egon to allo

Ral Maibility and pruillo a moreal appearanco.

Hit of tho dally serine of.

cha tortor paroral la Pillineal fores tala rous aral then 18 1i nosposary to

ento piecuros of ruleuro, undri persons or souly arrivad doolors, cho

operatora go to the

So GEROSE CremaTe, Il soed to Do that ay careful absorvation by

to sovira vould have rormimi cia foli-talo position ol tha missilen bilade

ln bott cho old and tha nor maren.. I hare no dcubt that tha sovieto reallio

chay are under pluto survel blanco.

Tue carra by la faally thas the nia to tha

nate outldina sust enraly havo boen sotal ty, llo forlota, Pasible the Sovlos

thias the seally lu torting vich tha Loanl'Artboritlos dus tO LIPTY-L'S

COTTASE ROBOSIATIUN MEA IN MAXIONS AT.

obsoration by

the iviers mould ravo rotaaled tho albains alat in tha vonathan

611 mala

not also the late, that ebeyn blime aro saltin upon. To oration aloo

arIans that tlin dovleto rnal170 that 1099 are Unlar anito alrelllaren,

1h14 sue pilntal al ramaly When a Sniot Ablaland an X087t00 5211-17 thon.

italicent ret

char Chay cradly ba ser: Ly missocre valchlie, wits a redgecoça

inter City to to affect that

wer russral that the "seericano" are dotes 16, thieh matt trainate sort pouple

balleye the berleen tirene le anlst elit tuch stasternpains and theraby

rantriralia GEMFIIDE.' d sidinat that: tha Sorlata mumulbiy ballore tho Maricen

01 von the nmentle that 11» ITlYRIC levis to bloon, tha illation st

ento point disa not plas te torolato a trYiny the LILTRIC lostallerion,

Any curt linal charo sy the immators, unald'b montrod by 100 Bovlots and

If the dano ven cliner the trioto toula due tralia ter a no trutallatic.

Ino blaThll tuss ls wertcirming a moniul nottiloi am 18 da terlioned that 17

1111 contifun to in 60,. tro sorteen to bal srinid00, to complain to

9leTo le a radial claran in birded and/ur lexiear casey, "the Station bos

the aliast hand un ton jai gurrelalparo no, too lanet serpot pot posalazy

¡e nostrao sir gauro ali ate, tomor las

coal not ture gone talesced to toes to corer la chet it. con

Laurenen melenses, lit hs arushly ist bat flirt it to

cros and to se

Do then to sea to distinto an

PAOL NO

5388

USE RATIONS EDITION

I R00,13.

---

## Page 7

CONTiNUATION OF

DISPATCH

10.

suitcatio

BEERST

Dais - 1114

Alou, che uno or LoT do the mair alore

notel in regure on that the.

sirlöts.arg. rory

Liesta, inni so so icentrial trial cho triaco inño a "soar"

201-151c0 pot sir dar no li sue shoe be ballanes Lie LaserTe la "verhirg

LICAHA

2i..

malin tho helete or the unll in sboir sackfurd

abiret tus yiour ne, atio, einily sara blockos criminenly ese vim it ebio

Sinie they die

Not do trido, ll Mali no l ballcata that chry Ano Me aMaro that Chair

Ai: t1N1819n

in the cebar hard, fin

arah 42979-40 270-9ar99r, bai reported thar gillilt17s ln the bark

Mir alictile, tha viran Do liteer

conairee there dally: do arial collara ontor phalt alabara by a parto

LINITY. Y mays that

Do bao never titicad ast lustie Intonest In hlA lalise Us b1s.D0t1712198 by

12.

cover mort lo float, of s sar ali lanuranco salgin: In a livel autonulla

cover for the uno it ine ip neins room to abat to dore arraine vort for

Tra droo la do; loited at ali clare and IanAPpy-y never allero

the margait tri milar.

pren for claditi purposes.

Ma sulfernt 18 kept

Lentral le: a trilia

aleaun die rico tien nare to uin anu all lists and pertoo

currelLinito talla dartiad 118 1y this Dear quad; the pussel of the stardos

and the curtalry surlin eon hers vuen LIAITY.? li sparallelo

DARLiN CiTaTiL, Die station dosA Mit lep)lone ebai enla pheta baso

1s known tre the infies,

Put to laple if atsugrote vullo shes ano dal lao haukyand. ll la Intorostin

in parer chas the durgate mir ra attirt tu "protect" to lENCH) vald-in aentlaried

patern mine of thes wall-19.

lidari leiause sha liralle it dos schul vas inimelo clacared and tha unildren

Bia di by another rule.

At a RATAn cirsaTi portainlay to tle MAcullty of the bados in

mired In pregait LIMiTY, is azala do mitend that the limate aro avaro of

Cho íni tant LEANTIni lo the imes/bulldor ui the no ilitite buildine.

It, Tha statlin raditino thas ente of the natalio rejiano do thra

1197949h aro ten en tinatue taro: bessater, too itailun mental to mito tho

option of the primited, dinal and EDo lazler a batter as recurd 10 a

corsalidated fong.

serialiard et stores

---

## Page 8

DISPATCH

Chlot, MAD

SECRET KAPOR

PROCESSiNG

ACTION)

MARAIO FOR

no worrie

SURGED

NeFO

xx

FROM

SUBNCT.

Chlor of Bratson, Moxico Citr

LTErY Project Renoval Roquest

ACTION RIQUIALD: AULALACTI

Actlon Requirods Soo Paragraph 2

Lo Station Mexico City'& Profoct LIMPTY expiron on 3e Moveabe

1966. Porvarded herolth and under separate covor 1a oplit transalaela

1o tho roquest for renoval of Project LIllPIY.

2. It 10 requentod that Projoct LIMPTY do ranoiod for tha period

1 Deceaber 1966 through 30 Havreber 1967 In the anouat of 145, 000.

tale totel, 129,020 should bo allotted for FY 1967 end $15,900 Por

FY 1967.

fOr/H1zlard C. CURTIS

Attachment s

Loft hand o1de h/s

Risht hand sido u.D.c.

Distributions

3 - chan v/att b/u& u.s.c.

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

1294A-30403

CI ASSIFICATION

26 Petober 1966

MOSTHENUMDER

58-0574577

---

## Page 9

the LEWRICK Inatallation and personnel. Spectfle exasples of the LImyprY

Project'a procese and contrtbutione to the MUD will be found In Section 3

went with the station, deroliched the old structuro and cons"ructed a now

edifice.

mile 1t was Intially conte-pleted to place the LLITED

(LIaNeTys -o and -7) porsonnel in the new buildin, and to retain the sano;

mual division of workload botween LILYRIC and LIMITED, it rus lator

uciued to nove the present LILYNIC basehouse personnel (LIaPrYc-13, -l4,

-26 and -27) Into the now bado instead, alone with the folloring ancillary.

modificationas

An Increase in the hours of both the photographic ard physical curvoillance

coverage provided fros tho new baso by the LILyRIC operators (r60a-1600

hours) durine the weekdayo and to have the LI'ITED base provido

photographic and physical curvoillance coverage froe 160c-1030 hours

On weekdays and fron 0900-1300 hours on weekends. These chancos were

dictated by the followini, considerations:

The new LINCUSINE bullains offers a such better vantare point

for both photographic and physical surveillance then does the

presert cosplex which houses the LILliC ard LINIsD bases.

Thereforo, tho Station felt that the personrel occupjino thio

new base should de those possessin the highest tecraícai stilla

and also those able to provide the cost thorough and coaplete

coverage.

Since the LIlTED base now hes anly one trained

operator while the LILYRIC basehouse has three, the LInuC group

and a revision of working hours was Indicated.

2.

Zecause it was apparent that the covernie of the LIftick

Installation would bo a lon, rate cud continuing requiresent,

tho Station desired to ntell the new bese with personal of long-

rance potential.

LIMPTY-o, now almost 6o years old, does not

possess this potential; horever, the LILVnIC agent complex

happil; combines experienced peisoniel viti youtrful ajents.

3 Firally, the social and financial status of the LILYrIC

persornel 13 ruch sore corpatibleiaid consistent with the er-

vIronient of the now building thai is that

of the LITTED Iasily.

The above-cited revised work schedule was Initiated in July 1966 and

the actual rovedent of the LILYRICs into the new base bezen in lato

Septeaber 1966.

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SEGMET

18 July 1985

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chiel/TSD/OA

SUBJECT

LIMESALICALIA- Audio/Photo survey

Va Division would like to express 1t8 appreciation:

for the excellent survey of the LICALLA/LIaRSA complox da

corico. clty conducted by dr. Glen whidden. The rogults

Iron the audlo photo survey will certainly clarify the

feasibility of technical operational possibilities agaloat

the IsThAL targot.

The photo composite gives the first

reallatle picture we bave bad of the premises sinco the

hoight of tho original wall was increased, and wo feel sure

thie viil serve as an example to be followed 1n future

targot analysig offorts by tho Mexico City Station.

W. J. Kaufman

C/WH/1

DDP/WH/1/CBustos-Viddla:1Jc (16 July 1965)

Distribution:

-Orig & 1 - Addressee

*= LIES

1 - Memo chrono

---

## Page 11

14.00000

MEMORATOU POR: HE DIVISIOn

ATTENTION: 10. Houseas

SUBJOY :

:: LINESA/LICALIA - AudIo/Photo Survey

Altached derrita 18 the surrey repure prepari by the usder-

aigned do to repuls of bie laci toi 11918 to Mexico C1ty.

Farrey C. MAYORD

Attachnest:

survey arpart.

Diatribu:ica:

Urig. a 1 - Addressee, v/ate

---

## Page 12

Bello Coven

Qua at teres.

---

## Page 13

ales as bo so 10 voula inarefore la 20 1a etrongor the so soro

pollariss

A stary el fuges eralleble polar to tin pervay 171102081 229

Men tho liarcod fleld el Mou lu put a sjata thin could sor le

dono soccernilly,: Buretto, a pietical pubea rould have a

As a 300 ta lena cas Toodily evallablo 18 vas aid fas

this tura.

Sen erasia ló sa tavia cassara has a 812 asgasity of

To shertter speed tas

so vall extraling tho cargot priate.

Ao sale. dintance 19

ostelal to do endortle al a penara vitai en esterial tie

agastro, purioular strontien as sald to the polas faring

---

## Page 14

L$A (ACA SIO) DOtINEA 1/59 MA 8/29 @ S3 TFO, CosTinArag da Destass e

pior eba sisteita dara la l40 sua er ton absio.

mia triviess's estate-

BONARISTO II SULA (ASA S3) STAITUO LESA setaings a8 8/9 e01 5/3.0 0 88

1y GUiD El fall si sbAserero cello fur sari erIaleal fesicatng.

ding sa egustas om to stasassad osta stessos.

CESSO SO MÃO VITTUA DILLAIRE LO DO ALETA MIS BRO LATO TERLA DO VIRAITO

Do ana pargol donista. Il tsi long 10 pierel sarther bart Il soa soua,

EO DONNA DA FACT EB RANO R9 PENSIOLO.

SU TES OR BSO SINTERNIO PIENIS DEI NO MISTO LANSGASRESTA dO

NONEA JOONY SA DES JOS, CUTEDY LESTUAS ALISTY el ipprO for a Lango

stra menatea toi sonia regiuro a ralesipedy call eserture di da sia 1as

A 810D0 EL MARIENTO COLA DO DA DO DA MONS DITO eS la tINSE, S t

---

## Page 15

SSEEZTEEE

Etasatar

FAHAT O. MEFES

GYeNit BoNa

---

## Page 16

xia, Glonn H. Whidden/rs

NIT / DC/TSD/OA:

• INDE

1 2603:

8 NO INDEX.

AIr 20 May 1965

• : MEXICO CITY

ROM DIRECTOR

15D 6.

NESSAGE FORM

SECRET

ROUTING

2028656293

No WHO, CaSs, SOD C, Fl, Ve,

FILE

MEXI

CITE DIR

12133

AQUATIC

1. HARVEY C. MULFORD ARRIVING MEXI, TOURIST COVER, ABOUT

26 MAY TO CONDUCT DIRECTIONAL MIKE AND MOTION PICTURE TESTS

FROM LICALLA BASE, EQUIPMENT FOR TESTS ARRIVING VIA POUCH AND

NEXT IURADIO FLIGHT, DESIRES CHECK EQUIPMENI DURING 27 MAY AND

TEST AT LICALLA 28 MAY DURING DAYLIGHT HOURS.

2. REQUEST THAT EITHER FRANCOTTE OR RESCIGNO PARTICIPATE

THESE TESTS IN PREPARATION

FOR POSSIBLE FUTURE SUPPORT THIS

ACTIVITY.

3. ALSO REQUEST MEETING WITH CURTIS TO DISCUSS PLANNING FOR

FUTURE KURIOT SUPPORT.

*. FIRM ETA MULFORD FOLLOWS.

END OF MESSAGE

TSD. COMMENT: Is formation se MULFORD's forthcoming IDY to MEXI.

WH/: - Mr. Spera

x:$506, by phone

LiPT

SE$

MOUR RUSSELI

C/TSD

RELIABINO OUTIGEN

ROBERT O. BU

BUSSEY

COOROIMATINE OFFICI

SECRET

C/TSRARACATIMa

OFFICIO

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSÜING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

---

## Page 17

DISPAICH

91=1

UNITATOND

CAN CON HAN TAN

micronia

ACTICIAI RACIVORO: RRTERENCES

Was tuLiMo la a brlos peo of the Dilloy ho MASETa artlulllos durere

nio rinse do Medço cler 1929 March 1995.

:3.0÷

una socoopaniad by Jrooph M. insCIato mio ano stupit tisa vialt to

tha maio di por dia dirrao de nuvoglia le uu eso tarsor.

maitto tho aboanco

ol sin carans semuralitião sue eia pimiano, che cnoçonta: anivai de do cald'o

sacity pra:lital necono do ebo laret dinas por nidio jarporas. Al tre pranent

ciao duo pienillililos nn 10e arriverata, frie the acancpilat of etio trotallation

(1)

vio accuprato

i1s not 00000 Sr.19

¡varo virata il thair calia, aul sceso: 1) LOTieni tsolo Mat Flo na11'.

losyal"; rosti

wilh the rasilmain ail reit wich ha dassens nuchortilos, Horaror, n

0.1118.4:

LIANA.

Puter coculenl turvo: di cade mi parrandol to lensquarters in

1022-23082, in, ilrch IiX5 for. Furtliar ALMICI Miroatletius.

•The citat lin hea io perthor plars sincarning the nullo posalbilittos undess

alitiani, Incorsior la cortherire tras lesiguartori.

1 - C/CHIT

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPAICH SIMCOR ANCO ARMANIA

-89514-258722

CLAiNCATNA

LEALLA

DATB

N ADF1l 1905

НаЗ МЫ поллеКа

---

## Page 18

CONTINUATION: OF

DISPAICH

09R-20s

•So tua Boura dallo dorico one allapertorili bruted and auterpentis

inviailabina orlassa or diso Minato No Merenos austraty 1n plaital ior che

Leta la A suturai

LALMATO

baderul tie si, chutti wirkad very ortonoluals with all orfloore Lovolved

ruttatia on 27 srcho Arter nto lountire mua Menico ClEr, ONASTER nontactod

tra catenteal cinerector al cha madlo derico in Dallaa ant mibnequen is sassed

7O ONASTER dINUANOI VILI MICIDO the tochnionl noporto Of pierins a trane

altler la a talophone usal by che PEUMi tutallation lni Andrin Po 11UNN' O O149

mio abroctiva lo to mg11 irradatton let cur sturrotion, 18 a quitailo dovico

no italion so sou antelre tho alval ur the alterail talejono apparat

Trarlad to Hoedquartam by Mtili

NUANCE.

?.

In mumaTy, Bratlor balleras that duTte TIN to Hardes Clti vas

arcontlonito priflearie not motrionlle inna airru),

il le arenale. of boy KUBARX

orriil onditullio ou a fitiero suAlile ainAda, (OrTPO), to nathe-npot sirdon arit

sultano in aoral olior autero calo acciritlos lolis contictal ar. tre litation.

WILLArd C. CURTI

apididan.

•-ca

530

VEL PAIVIONE KITICI

ПАЗТАТСМІ

BSCRET

PAcA Na

coarTinito

---

## Page 19

TO

0030

FROM

SUBMICT

ACTION MONIRPO

DISPATCH

SECRET

•all a brit.

HIMA-1497S

Chiạt,

Wd Division

Chiar,

Chief

XL TU HE D

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Sovlet Pabassy

Cipher Clert.s

Stantalar SHILNIKOV

' Nona

S0-8-20

201-2711CS (P-6414)

од?!

NO IDERING MiSUiRtO

INDIRIN; CAN A NOGHO

A QUALPIER MO. DESE ONT

ЮМА- 14489

1.

In reference dispatch un Merdco Station surrested sir persona

assiined to the Soviet Embasay who were male clerke working fell tina

insido the Chancory stio could also be cipher clerko.

One of these

perions was Alekeandr Ivanovich TRUKHACHEV (201-183352 - P-941)

7 April 1960 Stanislav SHILNIKOV arrived in Med co City and accordina

in LICALLA replacod TRIKHACHET who roturmod to the lISSa on 16 Aor1l 1960.

LIGALId hail bom briefod by hia KUPARK Coso Orficor to do alert and

t,0 watch for any Soviet in the Chancery area who might be car-ging copios

of telegrara. On 5 May 1960 MICALLA photozraphed Stanislav StiLNItOV

signing. rocalpt for tuo telegrana from Ivan Alckganirovich KONCVALOY (201-

202416 - P-3093) who 19 a full tina guard and gate keoper:

3.

SITLNIKOV is assumod to be ons of the ciphor ciaris: Enclosod

18 a cay of tho photograph a SHILNIKOV and KCiOVALOV but this protograph

18 not to be usad outsido KiBARX or shown to other than KlIBARX staff

emloyee sinco the photograch vas takon from a sensitive clandastine

ba80.:

The lexico station has no publie photographa of SHILNIKOY at the

present time He hag not left the compound of the forlot imbase; durine

daytime cure.

Ho was not photograrted on arrival, by LIFIRk.

The Station

hopes, horever, to obtain public photographs in the near futire which can

be shown to other then KUlAiX porsonnel..

Willard C. Ourtis

3-CHH DIT w/att

1-SR Div w/att

I-C KUTUBE D v/att

50-5-10

---

## Page 20

DISPATCH

CLASSiFIC

SECRETA

Chief, WH Division

Calet SR Division Chief KURE

Chief of Station, Mexico Cuy

PROCISSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

NO INDEXINO REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CÄN JOGE INDRAINO

MICRONILAS:

Operational/ Survey of LICALLA

References:

A.

DIR - 94105

B

MEXI-2S92

C. HMMA 25155. 13 January 1965

D. HMMA 25275. 28 January 1965

I AD

11701092

1.

Reference B provided a reply to the Headquarters queries made in

reference A. Forwarded herewith are the photographs and sketches made

by Dudley R. GNASTER in his survey of LICALLA.

2. Although the audio assist possibility for the lip reading operation

basically negative. the Station defers to Headquarters on whether an

attempt should be made to piant sensitive probe type microphones in the

wall adjacent to the LICALLA property. Discussion with GNASTER at

Headquarters will undoubtedly assist in making this decision.

an i decoy firing

Whatever decision is reached on the Issue above, the Station re-

commends that Headquarters pursue the requests made in reference C and

D, namely those of acquiring an improved motion picture camera and of

sending the lip reader to Mexico for on the spot experimentation,

4. In a foliowing dispatch, the Station will report on the extent of

growth of Ivy along the entire wall area om LuMasA units il throughly,

and on Station considerations to overcome this potchtial sight hazard.

Ins following action 13

Atrachments:

as stated above

Sia:

"Ricia faces Willard C. Curtis

Distribution:

2 WHD w/att h/w (l copy)

1 SRD w/att h/w(l copy)

1 KURIOT w/att h/w (l copy)

1: amariaction, cito

reacias, a12 coordinato

Za

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA - 25679

CLASSIFICATION

SECRETA

DATE

26 March 1965

MOS FILE NUMBER

FFN: 50-6-74/3

---

## Page 21

CLASSIFIC ALL T

DISPATCH

:10

wiT Division

INTO.

: Chiet SR Division: Chief KUROT

FROM

Chief of Station Mexico Cly

PRECESS, NE ACION

MARiSSO FOR INDEXINO

NO INTENINO REQUIREO

ONLY GLiALiPiRO DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

•MICROFILIA

Operatlonil/ Survey of LICALLA

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

References: A. DIN- 94105

B: MEXI-2892

C. HMMA 25155 13 January 1965.

D. HMMA 25275. 25 January 1965

Reference B provlded a reply to the Headquarters querles made in

refarunce A.

Forwarded herewith are the photographs and sterches made .

by Dudley R. GNASTER in his survey of LICALLA.

2. Although the audlo assist poss billy for the lip reading operation

Is basically negative. the siation deters to Headquarters on whether an

attempi should be made co plant sensitie pinbe type microphones ln the

wall adjacent to the LIC)LLA property. Elscussion with GNASTER at

Headquarters will undoubtedly assist lu making this decision.

3. Whatever decision Is reached on the Issue above, the Station re-

commends that Headquarters pursue the requests made in reference C and

D. namely those of acquiring an improved motion picture camera and of

sending the lip reader to Mexico for on the spot experimentation.

In a following dispatch, the Station will report on the axtent of

growch of Ivy along the entire wall area from LIMESA units Il through 17;

and on Statlon considerations to overcome this potentlal sight hazard.

FOS OFFICER STAP

Tre rollerine petion 15

authori=s::

Attachments:

as stated above

Willard C. Curtls

Siberi

Distribution:

2 WHD w/att h/w (1 cops)r

I SRD w/att h/w& copy.

KURIOT w/att b/w (1 cripy

Drena

CROSS REFERENCE TO

sido

reisor.

332

coorcinato

is appropriato.

DISPATEN SYMISOL AND NUMBER

DATE

CLASSIFICATION.

26 March 1965

MOS FILE NUMBER

FFN: 50-0-7413

---

## Page 22

ATT.A.TO

# MAA - 25679

26 MAR. 65

To: CHIEF, SR DIVISION

FROM: COS, MENCOCIT

---

## Page 23

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 24

Tosi

---

## Page 25

imagind

---

## Page 26

phim

thes

---

## Page 27

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 28

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 29

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 30

14-00000

men

---

## Page 31

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 32

FE POTAM

---

## Page 33

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 34

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 35

14-00000

---

## Page 36

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 37

14-00000

---

## Page 38

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 39

14-00000

---

## Page 40

14.0000

---

## Page 41

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 42

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 43

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 44

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 45

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 46

P:127

---

## Page 47

14-00000

---

## Page 48

14-00110

---

## Page 49

TARGET

#13

+54°

- TARGET WILL _

PATIO AT

GROUND LEVEL

74.

028.

ROOk

ToP

DOOR

(12

LICALLA HUT

#17

---

## Page 50

42"°

42÷"

1-6A70°

124"

LICALLA

HuT WALL

TOWARD TARGET

---

## Page 51

DISPATCH

1707-6958

50825/3

PÜr

но:

ODDINO CAN LA MOORE

"re balay.

D0A-11357

1. T0 MILA (SLE-W/5), LMUC (50-6-25/3) and LANTED (50-6425/9)

Does do StAtOr dist so have lio LISPTi PiOjocE (50-8-74) broten dom onth

separate flies sur saci de liego uforetarial Il du, please co advice

¿. Unless advisat lo tha contrary by lco Station, tha LINCHIED: (50-6-2516)

ami tidi (0-5-ai/:) iperational flos Mil be rotinad with tso LIPSTICK

11l95 ginio these luo assais aro so lunger in usa.

OLIVER O. GILBOT

Pü Mitotes 19nà

MEETIULIE

---

## Page 52

Abstract Tron HIMA 607h, 6 Feb 57 rot LIPSTICK Montil Bepart - Now. 1956

Operational

do

LICALLA was operative during this pethod with fear potable resulta

any associations between the various uMrich Persomel, previously

wown, have been revealed by this photographid coverage. A great hinde

erance has been noodly hot the follaso on the trees in the LItrick

comoound which has obscured nots attampts to photograph subtects in the

garden.

This situation impo-ves each day with the adrent of colder

worther. Thu

photos talen fron this base facing airectly towsr. the

rear of the LIMERICK bids leads the Station to beliara that se may be

ablo to observe directl into the Limerick resding roon.

---

## Page 53

1:2779949

VIA

mes Dalraith

DISPATCH NO. OHMMLA

31300

дел

то

Chies, iD

TOM

Cator or statioa, sado i?4

SUBJECT

(GENERAL Operational

SPECIFIC Basebousea surrounding LERICK Target

REFS

DIR 49977

DATS _ 12 March 1956

There is transmitted by caparate cover threa photographs of the

LATERICK Installation in Noxico C1ty.

The house marked "a" in Pictura

#l was authorizod to be rented by reference but since it was vacated on

26 February. 1956 under a pre-existing agreement with the oner for a new

tenast to assumo occupancy on 22 February, ua vera unable to accomplishes

the rontal.

:20.

The house described in para. 1 of this dispatch;

bo

LDERICK target Installation and grounds;

The LIPSTICK LIDOHDIO base waich is no longer rented by this

Station: It had previously been used for the RAPPER operation

but did not affor any other operational uses.

d.

The LIPSTICK/LICITA base;

The LIPSTICK / LILYRIC base;

1.

The LIPSTICK/LIMITED base.

DESENSITIZED

701 70-27

3.

Picture 112 1s self-arplanatory.

It should be noted that there are two

copies of pictures #l and 12 oubmitted; one with pencilled notations and

the other without marks so that the areas of interest can be clearly seen.

Ploture #3 was taken fron the top of the LIPSTICK/ LIDOMINO bullding when 1t

was under construction in May 1954 and shows the front of WIkRICK targot.

C3099891816881898 54-6-747

BOB 4 35 81 54

Folde.

Attachments: Photographs UNDER SEPARATE COVER

Distribution:

3. - wash(w/atts

2 - Flos(no attsk 59h57

Lauristo

FORM NO. 51-28

JUM 1949

50-6-74/7

---

## Page 54

-12041

- To

---

## Page 55

14-00000

---

## Page 56

1 ДепА - 4162 (КАСОК 329), 2031656,

Eleono

---

## Page 57

14-00000

KOFACTOR

EE SADIE DATE DE CANATOGEN CHANGE A

20/04/7:

SOOTERA

Matt

FERMER CRYPTONYM - LiEUpTY

LICALLS

CRYPTONY CHANGE AUTHORIZED RY - ARMSTRONG

COMPONENT

RIS/AN

IRO ON RID SECTION CHIEFI

CABLE OR DOCUMENT REFERENCE (FROM ITEM IO OF SOSY 8121 - MAMS-7133

N-0-T-1-C-E

THIS IS AN RIO VOTICE OF A CHANGE IN FILE

TITLE CRYPTONY CAUSEO BY COMPROMISE. IT

IS TO BE PLACEO IN THS FILE iNDICATED AND

TO REMAIN THEREIN AS A PERMANENT OFFICTAL

CS PECORD.

5-=-C-9-5-T

050-005-074707

---

## Page 58

TO RI ANALYSIS SECTION

MOM:

IS CASE TITLI

Charlotto Zehnns

LINMY/LICALLA

8. COUNTRY AND NUMBER

Maxiao

50

¡ COMMENTS: (inctado

CASE MUE EFQUEST

COMPONENT

WH

OPEM FIR

AS INDICATED

AMENO FRA:

AS INDICATED

CLOSE FRE

RESTRiCT #LL

PERMANENT CHARGEOUT

PREPARE FILE FOLDERS

AND SEND TU REQUESTEL

BUiLDING

Bur ton

DATE

17 Deo 58

KOON NO

TELEPMONE

2120

:2755

•ACTION REQUESTIO: 2

FOR RI USE ONLY

D. CATEGORY AND NUMBER

Dieret imal 6-747

erotion al file on protece

toohnical hesohelse

LICALIA used to. fall under the LIPSTICK Project and used to

hive RI file number 50-6-25/5

GOP

A

MEXI

WHILEIM.

ENDORSEMENT

THIS REQUEST SATISFIES RECORDS REQUIREMENTS.

EFFECTIVE DATE

DEC.

812

L gang

9 1.019505

FaITrOUS

intreet.

REQUEST APPAÓVER

APPROVAL

RONALD O. NORBEEN

FOR CHIEF, ET

&I CASE TITLE NUMBER

50

SECRET

N.S.

(J0)

---

## Page 59

SECRET

Mon Pilled säj

CASE FILE REQUEST

TO RI/ANALYSIS SECTION

DATE

25 June 1957

ROOM NO.

2121 barton

2555

1. CARE PATER.

Freject LIPSTICK/LICALIA

cOUntaTI

50

76=25

1911/1900

(includo Delal de

• or. projoat)

Physienl survillance 88 Operating Base Iron house adjacent to the

Soviet Embassy Lackyard

Original of docuerts entitled LIPSTICK/LICALLA to be placed in

50-4-25/3, with ce for 50-6-25/5

FOR AI

USE ONLY

4220

gement cheat he

ENDORSINENT

SATISFIES

THE RECORDS REQUIRENEATS OF CLAN.

SIGNATURE RI/ANALYSIS

FONALD D. NORDEEN

EFFECTIVE DATE

3

тоям но.

AUS 80

812

JUL 1957

RI COPY

REQUEST APPROVED

APPROVAL

ANIA J. LANCEORD

SIGHTO (For Chial, Rl)

CASE

50.

NUMBLI

25/5

SECRET

---

