JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 199:

[104-10180-10215) [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT J

Chief of Station, IM

o Fi
‘wanct Spare ional PROTEIN LEN/AYFOX 6 ef
wt Operat tecInsice Tarset 2
rormeonat Eopg rater Cancloate Insice Tarset Arca. — ee
Action Required: Peiuest for <a Peview of Fil

1. In the fall of 1960 AMERE}L (Peter J, DI CEPVENO)
recruited in Havana a WT operator candidate, whose name he
cannot recall at this tin Tnis candidate was spotted and

bebred aera by AMPANIC-1, who passed the lead over to
AMIEPE.
of thi

4

VEy

- APYPANIC-1 first contacted the candidate on the porch
Adoprercedes Genz Arency at Falecon and Frincipe Streets,
ontactel subject in the latter's apartnent

C4 building located in the rid ‘3 of the,
de of i etween
ts. Thik burjding had.a store in the fi:

ti
fl8or, was painted a pinkish beipe, and the apartments were
very small (one bedroom and bath, livinr-cining room corbina-
Gtion and a smal] kitchen), Subject was at the time workiny in
| ivine with lis wife and a.seall child.
¥abject was about! years old‘ tall lbs., word ie

ional “wT onerator

2. Subject had experience as a prof.

and worked a clandestine “T set for the
avainst the Satista revime. A™PAN was a renter of the

a ind spotted subject through a leader of the or whom
Subject worked in the underground, a

2

_3. Subject was trained fora toe so by AMCLEN-1 in a
safehouse located a jwhich had been obtained
for that purpose by =I. ARFOX-1 attended the training
sessions as a look-out, but neither A'FCy-1 nor AMCLEN-1 knew

the identity and addrese of the trainee. Training included the
clandestine operaticn of a RS-1, the use of sifnal plans, the use
of pads in coding and decoding, and perecnal security. Training
was conducted in the fall of 1969 after recruitment of ee t

and with the appreval of CO Ceotse D, SCOPMORY, who was AMIRELI'S
CO at the time and to whoo full rerorts were turned in on tha!
(Continued) a

Distribution:

carer ‘OAT osratontD
3 = Headquarters

26 Jan. 63
iemces masanoece oo ere aneieaneatecaata OSPATGH STREAM FOUEER

UFCA-7839
TARR TE UR

29-129-33-84/3



““ GONTINU ATION OF

TT enon tewnn ee SR

DISPATCH ‘| srerpre [_ercaeteaa

wiicate, “ulfect was never
for possible use at 4 later

trainins and the (dentity of the c.
activated and was kept on stan
date, for that ¢ursose tena ff{dea tere established ty arr b2
and reported to his CO, Subject wan not surplfed with a eTyset
and ne eisnal plans nor pace were iseued to hin. al

he AGFJ 1 recalls Subject was very secure in his clandestine
centacts and-operations, Despite estallished bena fides, A TRE}.

had consideratle trouble in rainine Subjectta cenficence and of

three prelininary contacts were necessary defcre setting down to

business, Subject van last contacted by BaGBes at Subject's :
apartment described above, in January or rebfliary 1961. At

this tine Subject was still willing and ready to work,

ols, It fs assumed. that Headwuarters files on the activities, of
AMEREE], AMCLEN-1 of AHFOX-1 will contain copies of the training
reports and information reported by AMEREP1. We would appreciate
Neadquarters acsistance in ascertaininn Subject's identity and
present whereabouts in orger to determine {f he could still be ee
used operationally insid&tarret area, AMPANIC-1 has been
tereinated by J¥WAVE [' Branch because of weakness in his personal
security, and it is believed best not to contact him on this

patter if possible.

END OF CISPATCI

Use peewious coTION

