# 104-10129-10386

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10129-10386

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ULUNLI

1 & 00T :263

MEMORANQUN FOR

SUBJECT

Deputy Director for Suppors

Arthus Ja

This memo

ndura lo fos laformadon poly.

attorney for James Karl RUTA

of an enticle being writion by Kew York Timer reporter. Martin

"olden waldea purporte to disclose Agency une of lanen la di

recrultment ol plate during do Cabra situattor.

3. Subject la a fosraes FBI Ageas (1948-1851) oho 101

personally to soveral mambers of the sillce of Securtty.

ho was consideriog resignatios from the FBI la 1950 bocsuso bi

folt chances to sino vero too loited la lo Barena, he submitti

an appilcation for employment to the Agency but bla fle Tellect.

hio case was caucoled i week latar, sabject served as s Con

idential Correspondenl with the Office of Seturity from May 1952

chrough february 1959. He termlated ibls cervice due to the

pressuro ol ble rogular employment Al ida umo ha mas prip over

by the Hayes Arcraft Corporatlon, Birmingham, Alabama (Aurel

1951 to Novembex 1961). Hanos was elected Mayor of Birmlngham

1n 1961 bus was la office for only a year. He Was gianted a Covert

Focurity Clearnace la August 1961 for use by the Diflea of General

Counsel on their Cleared AttorIoys Pased.

4. MI. Thomas McDowell Dubo kas been utilled by bach

spockal

peratiana Divleton and MGC la matters concerning the

Lil intoshom widone, turalahed Iaformation bas Sabject was.

Inasrumental in recrutting Des

veral Alabama Natonal Geard pllote

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

saping tão Bay'" Piga lacidoet, deveral ol sibora loas their livos.

1/16 11s. INc. rell'a optadon 12al tão Valdon arileio will be

rublisbod.

ourara J. Cabos

15NL105 Of SECRIN

Distribation:

sig -retuxa to si

2 - DDI

OS/SRS/LEOB:SKHall:ch (17 Oct 68)

SECRET

---

