*"104-10142-10134) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

>

IPN

availability of certain DDO records w

SEORE HS CAlss

: eee
INTERNAL USE ONLY [Sey
ADDENDUM TO JOURNAL -
-_-———.
OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL
Thursday - 27 October 1977
fe}
. L (Secret - PG) LIAISON Together with EA/IJK, +

and John Walker, O/SA/DO/O, met with Michael J. Hershman, Deputy |
Staff Director, Subcommittee on International Organizations, House ¢
International Relations Committee, as scheduled. We covered

Mr. Hershman's agenda completely and I hada private chat with

him concerning the security situation in the Subcommittee, (See
Memorandum for the Record. ) »

2. (Secret - PG) THIRD AGENCY Exchanged several telephone
calls with Danny Coulson, FBI, concerning the current status of NUMEC
in the Department of Justice. Mr. Coulson reported the situation in the

. FBI and referred me to a Department of Justice official for a status
report, I thanked him for his assistance. Mr. Coulson also informed
me that Mr. John Hotis had replaced Paul Daly, in the Office af’
Legislative Affairs, FBI. We made an arrangement for Mr. Hotis
and Mr. Coulson to have lunch hereon 10 November.

3. (Internal Use Only - PG) LIAISON Received a telephone
call from Victor Kramer, Special Counsel, Senate Select Committee
on Ethics, who indicated a desire to get back together promptly with
regard to a Memorandum of Understanding and Nondisclosure Agreement.
I offered to see him on the morning of 28 October and he was Pleased.

4. (Secret - PG) THIRD AGENCY At the suggestion of Danny
Coulson, FBI, I telephoned Erich Richard, of the Justice Department,
to inquire as to any investigation the Department of Justice might have
underway concerning NUMEC, Mr. Richard advised me that it is his
understanding that NUMEC is still an "open case,"

5. (Confidential 7 DTC) LIAISON Talked to Professor G. Robert
Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director, House Select Committee on
Assassinations, and William kK. Triplet, of the staff, cone t :
ich they wish to examine on 28 October.

@:
wD
INTERNAL USE ONLY lexZamoner ex a

