# 104-10114-10162

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10114-10162.

:

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETYPED FROM UNREADABLE

COPY.

7 October 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION:

SUBJECT:

The Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Mr. Sam J. Papich

COURT FOSTER WOOD

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Reference is made to a 25 March 1961

and a 6 July 1961 in-

vestigative report on captioned Subject which have previously

been furnished to this Agency.

who is a current Agency employee, has recently been interviewed

concerning his knowledge of Court Foster Wood whom

had 5

known since mutual attendance in high school. Attached is a de-

tailed report of the information furnished byl

concerning

his knowledge of wood.

Since

personally has sufficient reason to question

the activities of Wood and the activities of the associates of

Wood,

has been advised to discontinue any further contact

with Wood. S

It would be appreciated if your Bureau would furnish this

Agency any additional information brought to your attention con-

cerning Court Foster Wood and of particular interest would be any

information received by your Bureau concernino nast association

of Court Foster Wood with

The above information is for your use only and should not be

disseminated outside your Bureau.

• FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

R. L. Bannerman

Acting Director of Security

16

BR

Attachment:

As noted

OS/ SRS/BLSolie: ect

16 October 1961

SECRET

RETURN TO CLA

Bachground !.e?'y

Do Not Rep oau

---

## Page 2

250r7025

2/0r22

trachmants

os/SEs/BiSoliesecte

16 Datober 1961

gertent

REI Do Nol neprociae

wochens

---

## Page 3

14-00000

3

3

/ .

RETYPED FROM UNREADABLE

COPY.

SUBJECT: Court Foster Wood

has recently advised that Court 3

Foster

Wood was a relatively close high school friend of

during mutual attendance at Georoe-Mason High School, Falls nurch,

Virginia, during 1957 to 1959.

Idescribed Wood as an

average high school student who had no particular problems with

the exception that there were domestic difficulties between the

father and mother of wood.

?

became acquainted with the parents of Wood and made

occasional visits to their home during the above period of time.

The father of Wood, Foster Wood, is an attorney who was then living

in Falls Church.

Some time ago

the father and mother of Court Wood

split up and Court Wood and father moved into an apartment on

Columbia Road, Washington, D.C.

advised that after graduation from high school in

June 1959 he lost any close contact with wood who then started to

ten son Mason College

where he seemed to have an interes

started to attend a military school and

Wood expressed extreme opposition to military schools.

_married in 1960, which also helped to move

somewhat out of the social circle of wood. 3

believed that

for approximately a year, during 1959 to 1960, he did not actually

see Wood but advised that after this period in

which he did not

see Wood he has had a number of contacts with wood, many of which

occurred during mutual attendance at the University of Virginia

Extension School (night school) in early 1961. On one occasion

attended a party at the apartment occupied by Wood and

Tather at the invitation of wood, and on this occasion came into

contact with the "new set of friends" of Court Wood, whom

described as being

"beatnik_types."

Girls in attendance at the

party, according to

appeared to be of the "street pickup"

type.

3

After the above party Wood occasionally telephoned

and about Christmas 1960 Wood called and stated that he was going

to Cuba under the auspices of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.

called on Wood after the return of Wood from Cuba and

that time Wood lauded Castro very highly.

The father of wood was

also present and

obtained the impression that the father

vas also in sympathy with Castro.5

recalled that he again,

at a later date, had visited the Wood apartment, this being an

occasion when Wood had been visiting somewhere in Falls Church

and contacted

to take Wood home. On this

118

BR

SECRET

---

## Page 4

12906

2:30/20

W7W3

-2 CA0

SECRET

---

## Page 5

(NC1.

Hon

beyed de lace to tree 10e

Wile anoradda

se Corset propos

Dra Lage

saratise:

Chot,

Tire.

Univeralty oi

the waken tor

the

3112

202.

196:3

Mealous

2930

5.3

er, short sine but aif mhot

Made carted

..i:

adie tow, he would

nsat

Sanatol Consol rich.

yes condu rin

26 MaS

Migr

00

nore not ette ata

22'2

the

hs 71:

ro the circes

Unfair

0222221306

421

She tirely

nity

•2001

for

SuLa

700+

ind

623/ LiCo

Au

to:

2223

A3

tael

ired

Sex: Udo:y2020

MOVED

2aC9

cabin

C:

he

8:12

strect

there

31

45o.d

1:;

207 t56 tre

03

L

L

03

want tutorist

cond in

: 1:1

Jean Biker,

i26 Ts

---

## Page 6

va di ten

VC04 ZAMAD

Go Deca

97: 2-311

1133

Vena

+.-3

30Aa.

4 003

10.

Dcaearo7

803

not.

semino to

+2%

2: 200 -

55121

P063r.23

voci to Philedale

002Y939 12221

Vkoody

2ad not inox: li

marad

0* 25

oi the .wora

• SS

772

00113

2r29

cani"?

da the per rierto

100744

Arzat222

SECRET

---

## Page 7

188036

46477 0

2.70

moons neu

BOR DE TRIATEST

72200 2080r

302

baccata

2000

1rS 30t

Trig

---

## Page 8

SECRE LE

---

