# 104-10224-10003

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10224-10003

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

LOUSE SELECT CEREATEN ON AGSASSING TONS STU 1023RERS

CRET

MILL TITLAMBROS: MURPHY, DAVID E. (Consultant 2ile)

LICLUSIVE DATES: 5 Au81925 - 30 Sext 1972

CUSTOULAL UNIT/LOCATION: C/Paressuel

KAI: 5E13

DELETIONS, IF MY:

DATE

PECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

RIVIBED BY

(PRINT MS)

SIGNORE OR

MATERING CERICIAL

MURPI!Y, David F. Consultant

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Office

of forsonnel

P.O.

BOX 1925

lashington, D.C.

12 SEP

20013

Mr. David L. Murphy

1537 Forest Villa. Lanc

«¿esn, Virginia. 22101

лат Mr. Murphy:

The Director has rocently completed the annual review

o: the Agency's consultants to determine those cousultant

contracts shich are to lo renewod for Fy 1978.

20 s cho

Nice has

advised me that your contract is anone those wilch will

nos oe renewed.

Accordingly, your contract will be

serainated upon its expiration date of 30 September 1977.

No are grateful to you for the contribution you have

made so out nork, and no wish to

express our appreciation

for your service

as a consultant for the past two years.

Sincerely,

F. l. I. Jannoy

Director of Personnel

Distribution:

Urig • Adse

D/Pers

AO/DUCI

CPD Subj Filo

1 - Cru Chrono

CP/CPD/CHSandman: 7841:p)

se?

77

---

## Page 3

88448

50 day.

fR.77

177

3.254.75

10,944.60

1, 271.12

---

## Page 4

2 5 JUN 1375

ME.

David E. Murphy

1537

Forest Villa Lane

McLean; Virginia

22101

Dear HI. Murphy:

vie have recently completed. an annual revlow of our

congultant requirements and would 114e to renew dur

relationship with you for the period 1 July 1976 theou3h

•30 September 1977.

Enclosed is a contract in duplicate.

Please sign and date both coples of the contract and return

then to me at your carliest conventence. A stamped, ecle-

addeeased

envelope is enclosed.

Should you have questions regarding the encloge?

material, please write

me, Me. Charles w. sandman;

P. 0. Box 488; Ben Franklin Statlon; Kashington, DoC.

20041..

He appreciate your cooperation and assistance 259

100%%

forward to your continued association with us.

Sincerelyi

dal Churlos il. Sautzia

•~ Director of personnel

Enclosureg: AlS

1187.3

---

## Page 5

4-00000

§ NATURE DO PESCINATE WE SO,

CUATHALi LATIATILN

FUNDS

V 10 v

6110 v

cineülurhit

NAILUNGL

TI. DOSITION TIT

NATIONAL ANGEL UFF

IN N111169S -

VATE:

üITIZENSHIt:

TYPE

iNLLIUOLI

FAY

EFF

LAiL:

¡AX.

jlart:

iv

TRAVEL:

JUME

LEGISL-JAY:

PHA CUDE:

SFA: 0U31454

SECRET

Wires filed list

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Fore in

11

NSCA

rA 10 CF

13-1.004

TU TERMIRON ON ORM ENSTATION

wiselain, interind lies

allullani

TE FUSITION MODININ

TS CARIE SERVICE DESEGRIATIEHO

NiL.

THAN AN

TY. SATANT ON AÄTE

0134=0:2

106:

2106050011: 022110

SEA:

Marinal. 21: Mai

TRU

rubral ladis idio:

FLAN:

JAL THAN LAMAI: U1DS

•di indis:

LENDAALI

inrunmitili.

DAiL:

U430?7

-*.

...

Unli

UP.,

LArAS::

-

SUAlL

idr.p:

jIdic:

FUSTLIGUILEN

irroil ilnual: i. alü ü.vis

LT:

aniL: N

illitics i

..

MULL:

SA VATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

SECRET

1033,

---

## Page 6

Is price!

11

GuAr

for it"s

gua northe dust

$ 8034.84

Das perial

" valy

i 16 Any 1976 Saegael correct is d

3200.02

Total too. 1818185-10 101817 eurole Be=

$11, 231.84 or.

an acidi Reynies/ 0t 83,143. 57

There for re

go cite proposal as submitud boy Goarge sellini,

"Verly.

1:2.0

durate air le

Is sapil 1999,- in effort.

scille & forms.

Rverpiery 8990119611

---

## Page 7

cludi call priso are, to prici

Frvios.e

- 301 Sepele7i

flie it fin

Maple Yor sancere rest fredre

#: 1900 8967

s@ days

+: 54-484

Nice in r. was to lo extended boyone this hate Then.

The annal Darling would to Coduced by the

Cloud antoines

Chuck - discred With bage and heis so dignermes

is only segret is that soninhen il le sunde ste les

sand, if appre

Cheat in to soney

« ya

i leapon

---

## Page 8

4-00000

MT. David Zi Kurphy

Doar M8. Harplays

Reforenco lo sado to your contract vich tia United Statos coveranont

ao reprodontod by the Contracting Ulticor, ellactiva 1 July 1970, do amandad.

Effectivo 1 July 1977 paragraph ono entitled "joo" 19, anandod for

the purpose of satablicilug auld dato as tno lastial, annual, effectiva

dato of roference durlag your current and succodiug contractual toros lor

computlas your total cumulativo Income ultiln apacifie contractual colling

loltatloao, as roguired by Agency polley and regulatious parcalaías to

¿ho rohire of anaultauto:... Specifically your total caruíasa inlilacing

from 1 July 1977 contluuing through the current torrunal dato af this

agreement, lo 30 Saptenbor 1977, and any extension of an additional yoar

choraalter, cannot for such total porlod exceed the cumilativa amount of

All otnor torus and condicion of the coutract, as amendod, renalo

1n full forco aud affoct.

UNITED STATES CUTANNENT

BY

18d Curios He Sudais

Contract lus Officor

ACCEPTEN!

WITNESS:

David k. Huryoy

APPROVED:

---

## Page 9

14-01110

SCORE WIL, CRECH CLARIN

UNr:8. 8598f 11.10

OFFICIAL BOUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADONISS

DD/Pers/SP

DAT

2 JUN 1977

¿ JUN 1977

DD/PerS-

D/Pers

C/CPD

!!!:

2 00. 0.1

KG.

ACTION

APPROVAL

СОИМІНТ

CONCURNENCE

DIRECT RErtY

ÜISPATCH

FILE

IN/ ORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENUANOR

RETURN

SIGNALURE

Hemar's:

Reconmend D/Pers approval of the attached request

from the AO/DCI to authorize compensation in the

amount of $15,570 in the consultant contract of

Mr.

David E. Murphy from 1 Jul 77 through 30 Sep 77.

Because of the transition quarter in 1976, con-

sultant contracts were written for the pericd

1 Jul 76 through 30 Sep 77, a fifteen month period.

•IR 20-13 in speaking of the 90% rule states that

"total remuneration paid to an individual during

a contract year may not exceed 20%:of the current

salary and grade....

contract year besinnüht f Jul' 77.: i Tie 515,570

C/(7%)/OP

237

POLO MEHE

TO RETURN TO SENDER

MAME.

5 1: 65 9h1s

7841

038 81001958 84-1-0-91

$ 1.6.118:7

TN60 1319-192939

---

## Page 10

PLIS 2-12:

ADMINISTRAIINE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

27 MAY: 1977

MEMOKANOUM FOR: Director of Personnel

SUBJECT

: Consultant Contract - Mr. David E. Murphy.

1.

Mr. Dauld E. Murphy, a retired Agency annultant, Is currently

serving in the National IntellIgence Office, under a consultare contract

which covers the perlod 1 July 1976 through. 31 September 1977.

Due to

the need for his services on a priority NIO project, he has already

earned the: maximum fee allowable under the termy of his contract ($15,570)

for the number of days worked since 1 July 1976.

Mr. Murphy Is aware

of this malary limitätlon and has agreed to continue to serve without

compensation as needed by N1O only through 30 June 1977, one year from

the effective date of his contract.

2.

Provided 1t 1s legally permissible, It is requested that

Mr. Murphy's contract be amended

to begin a new contract year, for pay

purponca, effective l July 1977, in order that he may be compensated

for services rendered from that date.

sl debrar

APPPEVED: 44*

Бо аліси

* 2 JUN...

Date

with the proviso that if Mr. Murphy's consultant contract is extended

beyond 30 September 1977, the corpensation paid from 1 July 1977 through

30 September 1977 is deducted from the amount nuthorized in the contract

effective. 1 October 1977 in order to conform to the 90% rule of lIR 20-13.

ADMiNISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 11

14-00000

Mr. Dovid.t. Murpry

Dear Mr. Murphy:

Effective 27 Pebruary 1977 your consultant contract,

etfective l July 1976, le amended by deleting paragiaph

3 in its entirety

substituting the folloring new

paragraph 3:

3..

Fee.

In full consideration for your service

as an intermittent consultant, you

will be paid a fee

calculated at the daily rate

of $168.36.

Said fees

shall not

exceed a total of $15,570 under this contract.

All other torms and conditions of the contract remain

in full force

and effect.

Witness the following algnatures and seals.

CENTRAL INCELLIGRNCE AGENCY

BY:

18/ Charlus N. Sunnin

Contracting dEtIcer

BY:

- DIVE.

• Murphy

21 APR 77

Date

21

APR 77

Date

055-11-1578

SoctaT SecurTty Nunter

---

## Page 12

4-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY

10N2

5. April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division, OP

FROM

SUBJECT

: Administrative Officer, DCI

Contract Amendment - Messrs. Seymour R. Bolten

and David E. Murphy

It 1s requested that the contracts for Messrs. Bolten

and Murphy be amended to increase

the maximun fee allowable

as authorized by the new General Schedule rates

effective

27 February 1977.

Administrative Officer/DCI

APPROVED :

Sans austy

Director of Persommel

ó Ans 77.

Date

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLI

---

## Page 13

14-00000

riskies,

PES TELL

ADIANISTENTIVE-INTERIAL USE ONLY

28 March 1977

MEORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division, OP

SUBJECT

Contract Amendment - Mi. David &.. Yurphy

It is requested thist the contract for Me. David s.

Murphy be amended to increase the daily rate of compensation

Eroin S139.43 to 5150.15.

It.is further reqursted that this

amendment be eflective retroactive to 27. rebruary 1977.

"Htidebrand

idministrative Officer, iCI

APPROVED:

rector of Person

= 4 Mis 17

. 1;:T:

---

## Page 14

SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

MiAL NUMEIR

22004211

J. MATINE DI PERSONNI ACTION

12200Y 00010i

LUNDRALY

FUNDS

10

10 V

• ICGANIATIONAI DISIGNATIONS

NATIONAL

HI. ЛУПО МИТ

AAPITAL

MANAGI

i8 SEMARAS

init:

88: 1:1.1:

+

10 11

11101

1 IAN AND ASiA

10 LOCATION OF OMAN MEET

• IN OR OIMIR LEGAL AUINCE:

17. POSITION NUMET

Flat

IS GRADE AND SIP

versit

vüil

KAVIL:

LEAVI:

isi

N

-

--

PRA CUCL:

Six: 0051454

IS OCCURALIONAL MATIS

1431002

LUNGVITY

ріі.!a.

LUNT SAY: 5.

AIL

Aki: 6

NA1.:105a71

fit: Miiim

оті іск

PAY:

TOS CARE AWARE GINGEATON

IT LIARY OF FAIT

iti:

ri.i

Sullivai.

I'LAN:

JANE LAMAN: NOTT

Srin

JiL

iNU:

chalid: t

d. 1111. 1s

AlL Cadi:

Must:

ults

winvi:

count doN:

N

SIGNATURE OE OTHER AUTHENTICATION

Paren

SECRET •

frd.rion

4:4004:6191301078

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET

(Whom Pilia p 1-)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. S1P141 NUMRIR

7 SABE NATANT 000111

222109916

O NAIUMA OF PIRUNNI ACTION

didade decidacidi

FUNDS

P. ORCAMILATIONAI DISIGNATIUNS

int adnallurale

1I, POSITION TITU

MilabirdiL

IA CLASARCATION SCHOUE (6S. 18, 8%)

esdardd:

Ytt

FL.UL D:

FAY

-

iNX

11Ut.1-

Write

dilivi:

Pliy:

N

+

• 10

TO TOCARCHO ORA CONET

1IS OCCUPATIONAI SERIES

v4saoud

Saius

IR CASES SAVEL DESCRATION

16 CRADE ARD STIA

Sis

• -

Brind'.

CUE3

A0dogcledic0ee1n

acrialis

HUSPiTALILATLUN: :

aLäsi:

diu idiir:

ÜFS

Lils

1 ad

fini

idi:

S74TE

därl':

Litant

ALLAND: :

asile =

Liu aidl: di

--

-

SIGNATUS!

OF SINTO AUTMEDTICALON

P :

1110)0

811 NOU 114

Uia Pronais

SECRET

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

71:47

1, SERIAL NUMBIR

INITIAL CAINT

• 10

FUNDS

U l0 u

• CRUANIZATIONAL DESSAZILINS

NATILAdE iNiELLIGENGE OFFICE

11. POSION 100E

1: A579 MARi

NATIONAL IANEL OFF

18 CASSIRMATION SCHERGE INS 3. 892

IS OCCUPATIORAL SPRiTS

LININMAL

I8 REALARAS

2131042

STATUS INFORALILE

UA

Sc.A: M

LiNSHIN:

MAmAlAd :1:

rYtt

LUNGEVITY LUNG:

naTlhir.dl: rüt

FILLI:

PAY BASIS:

raIv. Cult div:

A/L

INL:.81

CLiNTRACI

larikatid

EFÉ DAlE: GELDIO CAPINATIUN DATE: UGHUTO

-

--LATILERENISALLIGIDILII

TAX STATION

.T.

TRAVEL:

Nris

LFS

AXPNS.: N

NUME

Leavé:

machin

it: S.1

YA: M:UN PAY:

¿lii

adliei..:

1.: :1:: p.

2•p:

PRA

LUE&

SFli: DÜ31458

FAA

PlE!

Auen :

-

idu

dÁia

ilt

•klü

tio

=.=

LUMP :

• rinde:

vell7s

TUAL:

carliuh:

SiGELTURE OR OTMER AU!M!

1:827÷8°

---

## Page 17

4-00000

Mr. Dauld E. Murphy

Dear Mr. Murphy:

The United Statea Governient, an represented by the contral

Intalligence Agenol, hereby contiseta

with you as an intermittant

consultant and you,

My pour clanature

below, hereby contract

with the United stazas

Government, according to the following

carma and conditlone.

Status.

that a construen ant contractor.

sort legal status undor this agreement Is

liothing contained herein

shall be

implying tie creation of an employed-

employer relationablo.

Servica.

In considaration of the fee sed-out in

the next paragraph, dou agree to aare yourself available

the contrarting office

provide consultation as requested

in a placo and tine as autually abered.

Fee, In full consideration ear your service sa an

Intermittent

consultant,

you will be patt a foo calculateri

at the dally rate

0: 3138.48.

sal? fees shall not exceed a

total ot $8,088 under this contrace.

and dithholdings.

The Agency will make no

deductiona

or withhotings lor income tax or soctal security

fion the Pres

Rather, an 135 Porm 1090 Bill Bo

1aaued to you

on a calenins yone bards or upon the terminatlon

of this contract.

to: acknowlerge that it

is your rasponal-

billty to Batluly both your faderal

and self-employment tox

liabllitlen.

5.

You will too proudded funds for travel and

other expenditures

are

in congonance with

the servlea

you ara to.provida nes

authorized my the contrictina offlce.

auch authorizations not

to excood those provided to employoes

under Agency engulatione.

Accountings for such funds will ha

rendered in conformance ulth Agency regulatlans.

rar

---

## Page 18

Secreck.

By vletue of thie continet, you sill

bacome privy to employaes,

aggoclater, plana.

prograns, nothole

and other information

of thy Contral Intelliaence Agency,

particular,

and tha u. s.

Intalllgence connunity, in general.

na a spectele. conditlon of this contract, you agree to keep

forever

secret, all claralein information so obtained. to

refrain from

presenting a paper, wrlting for publication,

making

• aperch through any media or forum.

or other public

stotement, factual or fictlonal, on a subject related to

clagsilled programs and functions of the agency or the

Intelligence Community, mithout tie prlor suchorization

of the Director.

Thin contract la effectlya as of 1 July 1976

and shall

continue

thereafter through 30 September 1977

unless soonor terminated by

mutual consent or the parties

horoto or by seven 17) daya' weltton notles from one party

Witnoss the following algnatures and saals.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGPNCY

g ortico

13 2l 76

Date

---

## Page 19

4-00000

We. David E. Murphy

Dear Mr. Murphy:

Ellectivo 15 April 1976 your current condultant agreement lo

amended by subatituting the following paragraph for (3).

"3. Fee. In full consideration for your sorvico as

an latermittent consultant, you will be paid a foo calculated

at the daily sata of $138,48. Said leca shall not exceed

a total ol $8, 088 under tilo contract. "

All other pruvialona of the agreement remain in full force

Bod effect.

Mi Diractor of Personnel

---

## Page 20

14-00000

то.

SENDER WILL CHECK CLA

UNCLASSIIED

LICATION TOP ANO BOTTOM

CONFIDENTIAL.

1 84086.T

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME ANO ADDRESS

DD/ Pors-SP

DATE

17 MAY 1976

LAYTIALS

DD/PeCI

1 7 MAY 1976

17 MMY.

D/Pers

22 MAY 197р

Ching, CPD

ACTION

DIRECT REPLY

APPROVAL

DISPATCH.

COMMERT

FILE

CONCURRENCE

INFORMATION

Remarkar

I

PREPARE REPL!

RECOMMENDATIOS

RETURM

SIGNATURE

Recommend D/Pers approval of the

attached request from the AO/DCI to increase

the per annum ceiling limitation of the

consultant contract for Mr. David E. Murphy

from $7, 797 to $8.098.

This $291 increase

will

exactly meet the 90% rule.

1010

FOLO HERE TO RETURN YO SENDER

FROM:

ADDRESS ANO MORE NO

Chief. Contract Personnel Divia CAt

COSFIDENTIAT

237

530 81886801 8811-881

DATE

? MAY

SPERAT

---

## Page 21

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY

16-1337

13 May 1976

MEMORANDU# FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division, OP

SUBJECT

: Contract Amendment - David E. Murphy

It is requested that the consultant contract for Mr. David

E. Murphy be amended to provide for an Increase in the total

authorized fee from $7,797 to

$8,088. It is further requested

that this amendment be effective retroactive to 15 April 1976.

Paul fit

mildebrand eir and

Administrative Officer, DCI

APPROVED:

Tim Vansy

Director of Personnel

•Tary 16

Date

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 22

Mr. David E. Murphy

Dear Mr. Murphy:

The United States Government, as represented by the Contral Intelligence

Agency, hereby contracte with you as an intermittent consultant nd you, by your

signature below, hereby contract with the United Statea Government, according to

the follessing terms and conditions.

1. Status. Your legal status under this agreement la that of an Independont

Nothing contained herein shall be construed as implying the creation

of an employed employer relationship.

2. Survice. In consideration uí the fee set-out in the next paragriph, you

agree to make yourself available to the contracting office and provide consullation

as requested in a place and time as mutually agreed:

-3. Fee, In fuil consideration for your service as an Iniermittent consultant,

you will be pald a fee calculated at the dally rate of $138.48. Suid fees ghill not exceed

a losal of $7,797 under this contract.

4. Taxes and Withholdings. The Agency will make no deductlone or

withholdings for income tax or social security from the fees pald you. Rather,

ari IRS Form 1099 will be issued to you on a calendar ycar baala ur upon the

termination of this contract. You acknowledge that it is your respondlbility to

satisty both your Federal and self-employment tax liabilitles.

5. Expenses. You will be provided funds for travel and such other

expenditures as are in consonance with the service you are in provide when

autsurized by the contracting office, such authorizations not to exceed those

provided to employeca under Agency regulations. Accountings for such funds

will be rendered in cunformance with Agency regulations.

5. Secrecy. By virtue of this contrace, you will become privy lo

employees, assoctares, plans, programs, methous and other Information of

the Contral Intelligence Agency, in particular, and the U.S. Intelligence

Coramunity, In general! As a specifi condition of this contrar, you agrce lo

keep forever secret, all classified information no obtained, to refrain from

presenting a paper, writing for publiratin, making a speech through any

media or forum, or other public statemoni on the subject of inteliigenco.

¡sctual or Motional, on à subject reinted lo progratna and functions of the Agency

or the Intelligence Cornunity, withour the prime written authorization of the

Director.

---

## Page 23

14-00000

Term. This contract is effective an of

11 Magust. 1975

and shall

continue thereftor through 30 June 1976 unleus sooner terminnted by mutual

consent of the pardles hornto or by seven (7) days' written notice from one party

so the other. Thia contract may be extendod by a simple, mutually attrated lotter

amendment hereto for perloda of not more than one year or for uny irnctional

increment thereof.

Witness the following agnatures and seals.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

or Choles 9 danburn n13 up 7S

BY:

Murphy

054: 19-7528

Sucial Security Number

---

## Page 24

14-00000

RAME-OF CUMSUUTAMT (LA.

•''Murphy, Dauld E.

SECRET

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONSULTLYT

-(F..Y.

#++-76291976-30

raptorator 1977

31.3H.4H.p0p.ra57.0

JUNE)

D1419109

770

diana is

261074!01

DUTIES 1O DE PERIORNED DURING NEXT

PISCAL GOOD AND DUSTIRICATION

F29 11:20:11,101

60

Consultant on subjects of vational Intelligence intorest.

I CERTIFY THAT

IMIS DATE

THE

TYPIC MANI ANG SIGNATUDE

815808814.1

1976

503

SECRET

---

## Page 25

14-00000

AUNINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY.

1175-1737

21 July 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

THROUGH

FROM

SUBJECT

: Director of Personnel

General Counsel

: Administrative Officer, DCI

: Consultant Status for Mr. Darid E. Murphy

1. Action Requested:

This memorandum requests your approval for

the use of Mr.

David Murphy, as a consultant at the rate of $138.18 per

day (GS-15, step 10.

Mr. Murphy retired from the Agency (CIAROS) on

18 July 1975 as a GS-18, step 1.

2.

Basic Data:

Mr.

Murphy will serve as a consultant to the

National Intelligence Officer for Special Actirities providing counsel

and advice

across a wide range of subjects pertaining. to the Soviet Union.

Because of his broad background in Soviet intelligence matters, he 1s

uniquely qualified to furnish assistance in Comunity collection programs

stimulated by the NIO/SA, and designed to focus the Community's efforts

against key questions posed by the Soviet target.

Reconmendation: Your approval to engage Mr. Murphy as an

Agency consultant is requested.

lieutenue

Paul H. Hiildebrand

Administrative Officer, DCI

Attachments:

(a) Certification of Ethical Conduct

(b) Statement of Employment & Financial interests

(c) Certification of Using Official

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 26

14-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE UNLY

-2-

SUBJECT: Consultant Status for Mr. David E. Murphy

i

Comments:

in the basis of the information supplied above, this reques

ippears to meet the policy requirements of HR 20-52, Consultants

£ 8 JUL 1975

Date

Director of Personnel

(b) Subject is cleared for Conflict of Interest.

she baldin 31J 1325

Director of Central Interitgence

APPROVED

ll

DISAPPROVED:

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 27

14-00000

CERIIFICATION OF USING OFFICIAL.

I. am

seeking to acquire the

services of the individual named berein

as a consultant to me in connection with CIA work for which I have a

responsibility.

I hereby certify that i kuve read his Statement uf Eb-

ployment and Financial Interesta (St'I) and that 1 do not intend to

utilize him in any work which, directly or indirectly, Involves any

company, inatitution, or entity liated on his SEFI except as noted below.

(List below organizations involved. IF NONE, SO STATE.)

If subsequent

to th1s certification, this consultunt will be required to perform any

CIA work which involves any of the organizations listed on hio SEFI not

noted below, I will forwurd to the Office of General Counsel a revised

certificution.

I further certify that I have read and widerstand 18

U.S.C. 208 (P.L. 87-849, 8 208)

MIMI GE CONQULTANT

Murphy, David E.

DRGANIZATIONS INVOLVED

Nine

Ga?d

12) Li 75

31 July 1925

2552

USING C

Nair C Clie

APPROVAL

Anthon, & Talkin

---

## Page 28

14-00000

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTEREST

FOR

DAVID E. MURFHY-

---

## Page 29

14-00000

I certify that 1 have road and understand Section Ill

• of Executive Order 11222 relating to "Standards of Ethical

Conduct for Special Government Employees."

Dial Peply

ignature

Julia 7. 1175

---

## Page 30

14-00000

MSTRATIVE INTERIAL USE ONE:

1/4917)

28-1757

Faocutive Roninley

21 July 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

THROUGH

Director of Personnel

General

Counsel

FROM

SUBJECT

: Administrative Officer, DCI

: Consultant Status for Mr. David E. Murphy

1.

Action Requested:

This memorandum requests your approval for

the use

of tr.

David Murphy, as a consultant at the rate of $138.48 per

day (GS-15,

step 10.

Mr. Murphy retired from the Agency (CIARDS) on

18 July 1975 as a GS-18, step 1.

Mr. Murphy will serve as a consultant to the

National Intelligence Officer for Special Activities providing counsel

and advice acruss a wide range of subjects pertaining to the Soviet Union.

Because of his broad background in Soviet intelligence matters, he is

uniquely qualified to furnish assistance in Community collection programs

stimulated by the NIO/SA, and designed to focus the Community's efforts

against key questions posed by the Soviet target.

3. Recommendation:

Your approval to engage Mr. Murphy as an

Agency

consultant is requested.

Pall H. Hildebrund

Administrative Officer, OCI

Attachments:

(a) Cortification of Ethicol Conduct

(b) Statement of Employment & Financial Interests

(c) Certification of Using Official

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE CHLY

---

## Page 31

14-00000

ADAMSTRATIVE -INTERNAL U2E0:16

- 2-

SUBJECT: Consultant Status for Mr. David. E. Murphy

Conments:

On the basis of the information supplied above, this request

appears to mee: the policy requirements of HR 20-52, Consultants.

28 JUL i9i5

Date

/ Director of Personnel

(b) Subject is cleared for Conflict of Interest.

31. 1Ul. 1975

General oursel

Director of Central Intelligence

APPROVED

I M. E Cottag. 1

DISAPPROVED:

AUG 1975

MOUNGRATE -INTERNAL USE CHUT

---

## Page 32

4-00000

PRIVILEGED INFORMATION I

-- -MOT-TO-DE RELEASCO-

SECURITS APPROVAL

DATE

6 August 1975

YOUR

REFERENCE: 98119: DCI/AO (NIO)

CASE IO,: 31454

TO

: Director of Personnel

ATTH

: Nellie Hampton, OPCH:, SE67 Ha.

1.

This le to inform you that Subjer, sas been approved for the

spin went specified in your termet under the provisions of

¡erzurers Regulations 10-3 sis

20-5 including necess to

ciazet"lei information through S62 BBCPET as required in the

perisenance of duties.

tress arrangements are made fue eutrance on duty within 2o days,

th'e caproval becomes invalid.

3. na zen, of the entrance on duty percescing:

A personal intervied in the Office of Security must be arranged.

A personal intervies is not necessury.

4. Consultant.

POR TIE, DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

FOR

Demith 7 Cause

Chief, Clenrance Diviuion, 09

19 iza mi

EXEMPT FROM

FREEDOM OF IMFORMATION ACT

---

## Page 33

14-00000

REQUEST FOR SECURITY CLEARANCE

ARGUeST DATE TO TIT

WANIA: (1 108-81101 Mildle)

POSITTONITITE

COLATION TEllY, Siate, Counter!

TUTE OF APPLICANT

CONTRAC

TYPE OF ASSIONMENT AND FUNDS

M23

ATTACHMRNIS

PHS

407e131x

MALE-YET

VETERANITIATUS

NVIILE CLEARANCE REQUESTEO

¿LCARANCE REQUIRRO

NANT. OF AROURSTER

PROVISIONAL PEO

FULL.

REMANKST

Dite totato tat to?.

1969 6/1014

CONSULTANT

MILITARY

ISINARTE ONLY

IRFRUHLUT. MIL

USF

FF

PHOTDIS:

YES

1A5

pritics. .

SUB-CATEGORT COUR 100T

IN OTHER, SPECIPI:

OCCUR, CODE TOTAT

REGUEST HON

WAIVRO

SOON. CODE 106-A41,

TIES OF APPLICANT IÃDI

HEADOUANTERS T50Ї

17 но

ET AMANCE ARQUINTO COTT

INCHUITEN'S CODE 152-941

TETPIRE. OSEX 109T

ON. MIC. BERVICE 1501

LA:T DIGIT ORON. CODE TOTI

07.400.110.178-7417.

RECHUIT, SOURCE 178-901

= %.

SPACE BELOW TO BE DAPLETED BY OS ONLY

APPROVA: GRANTED

I PROVISIONAL

I INVITEE

THIS IS NOT A CLEARANCE FOR ACCESS .E CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, MATERIAL,

•OR SECURE AREAS. A BUILDING BADEE ON AGENCY CREDENTIAL IS

NOT TO BE

ISSUED AT THIS TIME.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

*1 0 15+0446

99 3778

---

