# 104-10216-10007

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10216-10007

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

0144268

11150, 2196

1.

+rv

0220GN0

HENNIDUE HION EY

ISSUING

STARNT.

OFFICE IS

PISHIN

STAFF

AUVANCE COPE ISSUEDISLOITER

ACTION UNIT

1t0/b

N

ACTION A

ER.

dIl/AN G/PS/EGL

XC14

1LA8

T 282446

ET A910

PAGE 01

TOR: 061635700876

SECRET 061544Z OCT 76 STAFF

CITE PARIS 71898

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT UNPOLKA KMSTONE

HErs: e, 8181S 68438 19 JUSE A07Os (941369)

B. DIRECTOR 867008 110 JUNE 19761

1. UNPOLKA MISSED MEETING WE HAD SET UP PRIOR HIS DELAYED

DEPARTURE FOR CUBA, AND REF 8 REQUIREMENTS CONSEQUENTLY NOT

• PASSED, FOLLOWING RETURN FROM CUBA, JOURNALISTIC

ASSIGNEMENTS OUT OF THE COUNTRY PREVENTED RECONTACT UNTIL

MEETING 5 OCTOBER. FOLLOWING IS PRELIMINARY REPORT ON MIS

CUBAN VISIT.

2. HIS TRAVEL TO CUBA WAS TO PREPARE A VOLUME ON

COUNTRY FOR PRESTIGIOUS FRENCH GUIDE BLEU TRAVEL SERIES.

TRAVEL AND EXPENSES WERE PAID BY CUBAN TOURIST ORGANIZATION

INIT. WHICH VERY INTERESTED IN FAVORABLE BOOK TO PROMOTE

TOURIST INDUSTRY.

TOLD THAT AN INTERVIEW WAS LHAD ON FOR

HIM WITH AN IMPORTANT PERSONAGE 12 SEPTEMBER, HE EXPECTED

TO MEET THE DIRECTOR OF INIT. BUT WAS SURPRISED TO FIND

THAT THE INTERVIEW HAS WITH CASTRO.

SECRET.

IN 061444

PARI

71874

---

## Page 2

14-00000

" CHAN JUAÑO

181uro 2000

SEC

RET

....

MEPRODUCTION BY

OTHER THAN

ISSUING

OFFICE IS

PROMIBITEO

STAFF

Malut CoPt

ISSUED SLOTTED

ClICH UNIT

RF

11%.-

- AL

FILE.

VR .

N

ACTION A

T 282446

E1A910

PAGE 02

TUR: 8616332 OCT 76

3. CASTRO BEGAN BY ROUGHLY UNBRAIDING UNPOLKA FOR HIS

1962 BOOK ON CUBA "LA REVOLUTION SENSUELLE", SAYING THAT

HE REMEBERED GUEVARA HAD ALSO SPOKEN HARSHLY OF UNPOLKA

YEARS AGO AND MAKING HEAVYHANDED PLEASANTRY THAT THEY

HAD THOUGHT OF ARRESTING UNPOLKA REMEMBERING HOW HE HAD WRITTEN

OF CUBA. ATMOSPHERE GREW MORE RELAZED, HOWEVER. AS CASTRO

OBSERVED THAT, AFTER ALL, THEY HAD DISCOVERED. THAT SOME

OF THE INDIVIDUALS UNPOLKA MAD CRITICIZED MAD, IN FACT,

SUBSEQUENTLY PROVED TRAITORS TO THE CAUSE, SPECIFICALLY

MENTLONED:

A. ENU CUBELA: THIS MAN. CASTRO INDICATED. MAD

WORKED WITH ENEMIES OF CUBA, HAD EVEN TRIED TO KILL HIM

SCASTROS. HE SUBSEQUENTLY SERVED A TERM IN PRISON. BUT

HAVING PAID HIS DEBT TO SOCIETY, WAS PERMITTED TO PICK UP

MIS LIFE AGAIN AND COMPLETE MEDICAL STUDIES, AND WAS NOW A

CARDIOLOGIST IN HAVANA, CIMPLETELY OUT OF POLITICS: CUNPOLKA

HAD NO EXPLANATION FOR SURFRISING LENIENCY TOWARD SOMEONE

WHO WAS THOUGHT TO HAVE MADE AN ATTEMPT ON CASTRO'S LIFE.Y

B. FNU FRANQUI• CASTRO RECOUNTED THAT THE REGIME

HAD PULLED IN A POET SUNPOLKA THOUGHT THE NAME WAS SOMETHING

SECRET

IN 061940

PARI

71398

---

## Page 3

14-00000

POHM M1700

7.81090 878

• ADLE SEC DISSEM BU

BE ASONUNIT NOTIFIED.

_ AQVANCE COPY ISSUERISLRITED

ACTION UNIT

RF . FILE

tsY

SECRET

IEPRODUCTION

ISSUING

STAFF

VR

ACTION .

T 282446

ET 4910

PÄGE 03

TOR: 861635700876

IN 061444

PARI

71892

LIKE "PADILLA", WHOM CASTRO DESCRIED IN VLUGAR TERMS AS A

HOMOSEXUAL, FRANQUI, THEN IN EUROPE FOR MEETINGS WITH

FELTRINELLI, TRIED TO DRUM UP SYMPATHY FOR PADILLA AMONG

INTELLECTUALS, CASTRO, WHO REGARDED FRANQUI AS A GROTHER.

PROMISED LATTER SAFE CONDUCT TO RETURN TO CUBA TO TALK THINGS OVER.

BUT FRANQUI NEVER CAME BACK. (ALTHOUGH UNPOLKA WAS NOT

CLEAR IN HIS RECOLLECTION OF EXACTLY WHAT WAS SAID, HE GOT

IMPRESSION THAT FRANQUI HAD POSSESSED SOME INFORMATION OR

• DOCUMENTS EMBARRASING TO CASTRO OR THE REGIME. UNPOLKA NOTE, FOR

EXAMPLE, THAT CASTO MENTIONED THAT FELTRINELLI S FORTUNATELY"

HAD SINCE DIED.Y

4. CASTRO WENT ON TO ASK UNPOLKA WHETHER HE WOULD DE

READY TO COME BACK TO DO ANOTHER 300K ON CUBA, PRESUMABLY

TO SHOW PROGRESS MADE BY REGIME. CUNPOLKA SENSED THAT THIS

HAS PRINCIPAL THING ON CASTRO'S MIND.) UNPOLKA SIDESTEPPED

BY SAYING THAT HE WOULD HAVE TO BE GIVEN SAYE FREEDOM TO

TRAVEL THAT HE HAD ENJOYED FIRST TIME. THERE WAS NOT

RESOLUTION TO THIS PROPOSAL.

5. WE ASKED WHY UNPOLKA THOUGHT HE WAS RECIPIENT OF SUCH

SPECIAL AUDIENCE, APART FROM POSSIGLE CASTRO INTEREST IN ABOVE

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Pathet

лько

4-10 RATE 2-30

GAbLE SEC LISSEM OY.

PERSUA UNIT NOTIFIED.

IJHAACE COPY ISSUED'SLOTTED

ACT:O18 UNIT

RF . FILE .

- ACTION.

TOTA. SCHLES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY

ISSUING

OFFICE 15

STAFF

STMER T

HOMIBITE

VR .

282446

E1A910

PAGE 04

TOR: 0616352 0CT 26

IN 061444

PARI

71892

BOOK PROJECT. HE REPLIED THAT HE HAD BEEN TRYING SUNSUCCESSFULLY,

TO LOCATE SOME SURVIVORS OF GUEVARA'S BAND, WHO HE UNDERSTOOD

HAD RETURNED TO CUBA, IN ORDER TO INTERVIEW THEM. HE FEELS

CASTRO MAY HAVE HEARD OF THESE INQUIRIES AND HANTED TO KNOW

WHAT UNPOLKA'S INTEREST WAS. CASTRO ASKED UNPOLKA WHAT

LATTER HEARD ABOUT GUEVARA'S REPUTATION IN LATIN AMERICA.

UNPOLKA REPLIED THAT MANY BELIEVE GUEVARA HAS BETRAYED BY THE

BOLIVIAN CP. CASTRO STATED THAT SITUATION WAS MORE

COMPLICATED THAN THAT, ALTHOUGH HE ACKNOHLEDGED THAT GUEVARA

HAD, ERRED SY PERMITTING HIS OPPONENTS IN BOLIVIAN CP TO

RETURN TO LA PAZ AFTER A DISPUTE OVER TACTICS.

6. UNPOLKS STATED THAT HIS PRINICAL CONTACT IN CUBA

NAS A MIGH OFFICIAL OF INITO ROBERTO SA ALAS, HE STATED

SALAS IN LATE SOIS, HAD SPENT 18 YEARS IN U,S.. RETURNING

TO CUBA WHEN CASTRO SEIZED POWER, AND HAD ACCOMPANIED GUEVARA

TO ALGIERS, SALAS TRAVELS ABROAD FREQUENTLY, WILL BE VISITING

BELGIUM IN FEBRUARY. ACCORDING TO UNPOLKA, ALAS SEEMED TO

BE SENSIBLE, NOT DOCTRINAIRE. OPEN MINDED, PERHAPS SLIGHTLY

VENAL, I.E., SOMEONE WE MIGHT FIND AMENABLE TO AN APPROACH.

'• UNPOLKA WAS LATE FOR ABOVE MEETING, AND TIME WAS

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

111 860 2m

LADLE SEr pissee ar..

PERSONINIT NOTIIRO

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF ..

FILE

11A 19N

SECRET

=-d.

ISSUING

ASSED CRIES PRON

STAFF

nY

VR.

ACTION I

т 282446

E1A910

PAGE B5-85

TOR: 061635200876

LIMTED BY OTHER COMMITMENTS, WE HAVE SCHEDULED NEXT

MEETING FOR 12 OCTOBER, WITH FIASCONARO PRESENT, TO REVIEW

AND DEVELOP ABOVE PRELIMINARY REPORT AND DEBRIEF UNPOLKA

ON MARIO A VERHO FE PURON, HIS CONTACT AT CUBAN EMBASSY

HERE ON GUIDE BLUE PROJECT, APPRECIATE HOS TRACES BY

PARIS OPENING OF BUSINESS 12 OCTOBER ON SALAS. ALSO

APPRECIATE ANY HOS GUIDANCE, REQUIREMENTS BASED ON ABOVE.

CAN HOS CONFIRM THAT CASTRO-UNPOLKA MEETING TOOK PLACE.

@VERIFY GENERAL OUTLINES OF CASTRO COMMENTS! IDENTIFY

PRESENT WHEREAOUTS "CUBELA" SWHOM WE ASSUME IS AMLASHA1S

AND FRANQUI.

8. FILE DEFER. E2, IMPDET.

IN 261444

PARI 71093

SECRET

---

