Viod-Y0@88S0002| [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

erent
MICROPILMZD
Jue % 1 1865

OC. MIGRO. SER,

730 UN 1985
aE
To ? Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation .
Attention: br. S.J. Papice

yao + ‘Deputy Director for Plans
SUBIECE Qi Silvia DUEAN

1. A-usully reliable and sensitive source xeports that
on 15 June 1965 an wnidentified wosan speaking French called
Joaquin BERNAMDEZ Armas, Cuban Antassador to Mexico, from Chicago:
The yowan stated sho vee calling oa behalf of a Mr. CAS (phonetic);
she adked woother Silvia DURA vas a friend of Harvey Lee GSHALD,
and if DURAD nad retumed to Cuba. The Asbassador, vho does not
understand much French, said that DUPAN used to work at the Embassy,
. no Jonge does, end that she resides in Hexico wut he does sot
kmow the addreas. The woman again asked if DURAN we 9 friend
of OSWALD, . The Ambassador, vho appeared not to wmierstand the
question fully, ansvered affirmatively.

2, Information in dur files on DURAY has been previously
uade available to your Bureau.

3+ This invorsation way not be further disseninated vith-
out prior peruission from this Agency.

* pocument Number (A= 94.6

——<
cear-326/006s-65 ” >) for FOIA Review on SEP 1976

WH/1/9/SERRB: jm ; 2h Sune 1965
Distribution: BASIC: MEXI-3832. (IN 929¢8.
Orig & 1 - Addressee [= cae eenee
2 - RY (202-28948) PROSECT: LIENVOY
(201-74020)

Ci/BaA Coordinated With: cr/ors/vA (aratt)

ian CROSS FILS COPY FOR
wa/Po/Aa 201- 2

nr

PHBH
aang
E,
F

RI —¥ Rie SECRET
7 ‘RO FOREIGN DISSER

