# 104-10067-10049

## Page 1

'104-10067-1004

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SITIAGAI

1381549. 1SPJ:

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1999

23/1

SECHEt

FRP :

i5/11

15502

STAFF

ACTING: CILA-8

INFO: FILE, VR, C/IP/OMS, CALSN/IO, OOPD-D, CAPCS.

78 0118651

PAGE 001

TURE 181546Z MAY 78

IN 0718681

MEXI 45116

Ialt.

SECRET 1814502 MAY 18 STAFF

CITE MEXICO CITY 45116 (CHAIDEZ ACTING)

10: IMMEVIATE DIRECTOR.

"NINTEL RYBAT

С ЛАХСЛА

DC ALCAN

C/MEXICO

C/GSH

C/CN

C/REPORTS I

FILE

REF: DIRECTOR 224314

1.

STATION DOES NOT FORESEE ANY PROBLEMS WITH HSCA

INTETVIEWING SUBJECTS PARA 3 REF IN MEXICO AND ENDORSES

PROPOSAL CONDUCT THE INTERVILHS WITHIN THE AMERICAN EMBASSY

PARTICULARLY IF SUBJECTS ARE TO BE PUT UNDER OATH.

2.

VISIT OF HSCA MEMBERS TO MEXICO RE THE KENNEDY

ASSASGINATIUN NAS DISCUSSED WITH THE CHARGE ON 17 MAY.

HE

IS AGREEABLE IN PRINCIPAL TO THE USE OF EMBASSY FACILITIES

10 CONDUCT THE INTERVIEWS, BUT HE FIRST HEEDS AN OFFICIAL

REQUEST FUR THIS SERVICE THOUGH STATE CHANNELS AND SOME

OFFICIAL WORD AROUT THE ARRIVAL OF THE HOSA KENNEDY GROUP

BEFORE ME CAN COMMIT THE USE OF EMBASSY PREMISES. THE

CHARGE HAD ONLY ONE STIPULATION CONCERMING THE INTERVIEWS

AND THAT WAS THAT THE PERSONS MUST COME TO THE EMBASSY ON THEIR

A THE PERSONS NUS CoU

ORN FHEE WILL.

3.

QUT ABOVE ALL, THE CHAKGE SAYS HE NEEDS SOME

LEAD TIME IN UROER TO MAKE PROPER ARKANGEMENTS.

THE EMBASSY

ALREAD! HAS MADE PLANS TO ACCOMMODATE ANOTHER USCA GRUUP

INVESTIGATING THE MUKDER OF DR. MAKTIN LUTHER KING. THIS

GROUP 15 ALSO SCHEDULEO TO ARRIVE MEXICO CITY UA 30 MAY.

EVEN!THING HAS BEEN LAID ON FOR THAT VISIT BY THE EMBASSY,

INCLUDING CU-URDINATION WITH THE MEXICAN ATTORNEY GENERAL'S

AS DF CUB 17 MAY, THE EMBASSY HAS NOT RECEIVED

ANY NOTICE DE ARRIVAL OF THE HSCA/KENNEDY GROUP AS INDICATED

PAHA INO HEF.

FEGAET

05829

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78

0718681

PAGE 003

TOR: 181546Z MAY 78

IN 0718681

MEXI 45116

STATION WILL OFFER EVERY ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION

WITH THE ISCA INVESTIGATORS.

HOWEVER, THE FACT THAT THE

HSCA WILL BE INVESTIGATING TELTAP DPERATIONS WHICH ARE STILU

ONGOING CAUSES US CONSIVERABLE CONCERN. DURING PAST TEARI

WE HAVE ENCUUNTERED INCREASING SENSITIVITY ON PART OF OUR

LIAISON COUNTERPARTS AS RESULT OF REVELATIONS AND EXPOSES

CONCERNING CIA AND FBI ACTIVITLES IN MEXICO, ONE OF THE

MOST SENSITIVE OPERATIONS FROM THE MEXICAN POINT UF VIEW

IS TELTAPS, AS SUCH ACTIVITY IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL IN MEXICO.

THE MEXICANS DRAW A VERY DISTINCT LINE BETWEEN REVELATIONS

ABOUT CIA ACTIVITIES URIGINATING FROM CRITICS AND ENEMIES

AND THOSE BEARING THE IMPHIMATUR OF THE U,S. GOGERNMENT.

THE RELEASE OF THE FBI DOCUMENTS DREW A SHARP WARNING FROM

THE PRESIDENTIAL ADVISORSON INTELLIEGNCE/ MATTERS (CF. MEXICO

CITY 43110%.

ANY PUBLIC REVELATION BY THE MSCA OF JOINT

JELTAP ACTIVITY, JOINT OPERATIONSA OR LIAISON COOPERATION/

IN INTELLIGENCE MATTERS, MAY WELL RESULT IN THE CURTAILMENT

OF THESE UPERATIONS AND THE LIAISON WHICH HAS BEEN ASSIDUÖUSLY

DEVELOPED OVER THE YEARS, PLUS THE VERY REAL LOSS OF HIGH-LEVEL

REPORTING SOURCES.

8, NO FILE. EZ, IMPDET.

END

OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECHET

STAFF

18 0718681

PAGE 002

TOR: 1315467 MAY 78

IN 0718681

MEXI 45116

4.

RE PARA 5 KEF: MR. CORNMELL SHOULO CONTACT

1R• LAHRENCE E, STERNFIELO, THE CUS.

STATION

HAS REVIENED QUESTIONS LISTED PARA 4 REF

AND RECOMMENDS THAT HUS RESULVE THE OUTSTANDING QUESTIONS

CONTAINED PARA 4 HEF.. THERE ARE MARDLY ANY RECORUS AT. "

STATION COVERING THAT PERIOO AND THERE ARE NO PERSONNEL

PRESENTLY ASSIGNEO WHO HAVE ANY KNOWLEDGE OF STATION EVENTS

DURING THAT PERIOD.

THE FOLLOWING ANSWERS (KEYED TO THE

QUESTIONS) REFLECT

TOTALITY OF STATION KNOWLEDGE AT THIS TIME.

A, INFORMATION NOT AVAILALBLE OR KNOWN AT STATION.

B. NO RECORD AT STATION.

C. UNLESS TIME/DATE IS INDICATED ON PHOTOGRAPHS

AND TELTAPS, IT WOULD BE ALMUST IMPOSSIBLE TO LINK THEM

TOGETHER.

FOR EXAMPLE, EVEN TODAY, WITHOUT IMPROVED

TECHNOLOGY, NE STILL DO NOT HAVE THE CAPABILITY TO INDICATE

THE TIME OF THE INDIVIDUAL CALLS MADE DUKING THE DAY.

D.

ACCORDING TO PROJECT RECORDS; THERE WERE TWO

TELTAP OPERATIONS ACTIVE AROUND THIS PERIOD: THE LIENVOY

PROJECT RENEWAL SJOINT OPERATIUNJ&MMMW-11457, 4 APK 631 SAYS

THAT 30 LINES WERE COVERED.

RATION DOTTERSTA

NO ADDITIONAL INFO OR IDENTITY

OF TARGETS AVAILABLE AT STATION. THE OTHER OPERATION WAS

LIFEAT CUNILATERALLWHICH COVERED 23 LINES.

A PROGRESS

PEPORT COVERING PERIOD NOVIDEC 63 (HMMA- 22857, 6 FEB 64)

PROVIDES. IDENTIFICATION OF THE TARGETS. THIS DISPATCH

LISTS THO LINES COVERED IN CONNECTION WITH THE AMSTRUT

OPERATION. WEJANNOT IDENTIFY AMSTRUT AND THUS OU NOT KNOW

IF THIS IS COVERAGE OF ANY. OFFICIAL CUBAN INSTALLATION.

AS

YET, WE CANNOT LOCATE ANY RECORO AT STATION OF UNILATERAL

COVERAGE UF OFFICIAL CUBAN OR SOVIET INSTALLATIONS DURING

NOV 63..

PLS IDENTIFY THE THREE UNILATERAL TELTAP TARGETS

MENTIONED PARA 40 REF.

E.

INFORMATION ON THE CAMERA LOCATIONS OR

•PHUTOGKAPHS IS NOT AVAILABLE STATION.

F .

WOULD PREFER THAT MEETINGS WITH KNOWLEDGEABLE

MEXICAN OFFICIALS BE ARRANGED THROUGH THE EMBASSY:

SECRET

---

