"[04-10107-10795)muem, 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DANIEL FLORES

ewe


5 ieee ( ie
i CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON,D.C, 20505

OGC 75-4191
13 November 1975

Personal and Confidential

The Honorable Barnard F. Jennings

Senior Judge, Circuit Court for
Fairfax County

4000 Chain Bridge Road

Fairfax, Virginia 22030

Dear Judge Jennings:

An employee of this Agency who falls within that special category
of employees that members of my office have previously discussed with
you has been summoned for jury duty at Circuit Courtroom #, Fairfax
County Courthouse, commencing 17 November 1975. It is my understanding
that you believe such employees should not serve on a jury.

The employee is identified by a copy of his jury summons returned
under separate cover and, as previously agreed, we ask that this letter
and the name of the employee not be joined together. Mr. Edmund Cohen
of my office will be pleased to explain the circumstances further if you
desire. He can be reached at the follo.-ing number: 351-5648.

We appreciate your efforts on our behalf.

Sincerely,

sitive,
ohae vee Wren _
ohn S. Warner |

General Counsel

7

OGC: ECohen: aam
Distribution:
Original - Addressee (delivered by courier 11/13/75)
_1~ JURY DUTY
1 - EC signature file 7
1- Chrono NOTE: Per GMBreneman's call to Mrs. Chesby,

Judge Jenning's secretary, Mr. Daniel Flores
has been excused from jury duty. Sandy called
Mr. Flores with this message.

Alyce 11/14/75 we



SUBJECT: (Optronel)

__naniel Flores = Jury Summons

FROM:
Frank Stewart
OS/EAB

TO: [Offer designation, room eumber, ond

COMMENTS (Humber each comment ie, show from =hon
te whom. faluma ofter wach comment.)

‘Drew @ fine crows ¢1

To l.
Request OGC action Re

attached.

OS/EAB
4E 33

ror
3-02

oo me
saslinemnemanenmmenntiiicmmmmnans
Dente nes
a ae

bio ase” C] secneT —C) conripeniat C) Use Ont

(C1 UNCLASSIFIED
L


ar ve r)

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST

COUPLETE AND FORWARD ORIGINAL AND 2 COPIES 10 EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH
DATE

EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH 7 November 1975

where assigned)

TO.: DIRECTOR OF. SECURITY; ATTN:

{Siath division of office head and security officer.

Chief LA/COG
Chief La Security

THRU:

COMPONENT ROOM WO. AND BLOG. PHONE

Gane AnD GRADE OF EMPLOYEE (Print ©
FROM: type) a
Daniel Flores GS-12 LA/COG 3D5325 7144
caren APPROVAL 18 REQUESTED INCLUGTNG NAMES OF ORGANIZATIONS on inotvioUALS
0-7 before completing)

ummons from the Circuit Court
eon jury duty peginning

Fue DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY Fol
cuetemneD, DATES. LOCALE. ETC. (Refer to HR I

On 29 October 1975 I received a S'
of Fairfax County, Virginia to serv’
17 November | for two months.

I am presently
Guidance.
BB

| Reavest

3. REMARKS BY REQUESTOR

WILL MAKE NO REFERENCE TO OR DISCUSS

IN ENGAGING IN THE REQUESTED ACTIVITY, I
(OT) BE IDENTIFIED AS EMPLOYED BY CIA

MY CIA ASSIGNMENTS OR DUTIES. TI (WILL, WILL W

FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:
IGNATURE OF 2 EuPLOVEE

Jr comuenTs AWO CONCURRENCE OF STAFF. DIVISION OR OFFICE HEAD

concur: ULES Battin berrrep —

IN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

TION BY EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH AND RETR

FOR COMPLE

DATE:

EEN (GRANTED, DENIED)

SECURITY APPROVAL HAS Bi
PLATED BY THIS REQUEST.

E FOR THE ACTIVITY CONTEM!

' (voR) Cll#?, SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION



ey vewall OF VIRGL

« received on

LREBY SUMMONED TS

service for the

* beylaning at 8:30 74 on the 1? chaay oe Nov ints. in Circuit Courtroom
at —— a.

co G floor, Fairfax County Courthouse, 4¢

00 Chain brig. o nocd, Fairfax, Va 22055,
2 have wili he wut date. If any
, ua fron rep orting as directod auc call the Clerk of
2227 or 691-2228,
‘

ing to this summons
. ' he directed to the Chief Circuit Co:
. Piease clock your mileage

s¥evide to the Clerk of Court yo

Mart Judge of
from your ican ce
ur roundtri:

touse ana be prepared
ibursement Purposes,

MAM
son ame

