# 104-10111-10014

## Page 1

10-1011-10 222 RELATER HE PRESENT ONE

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

• TO

Ch/SB/1

Atts Mr. Fred Bucel

PROM : Ch/SB/3

CHRIST, David

SUBJBCT:

(Live Address - Westchester County)

#43872

DATE: 21 Sept 1960

On 16. September 1960 SAC/MFO was telephonically advised that SUBJECT

was one of several Americans reportedly arrested in Havana, and in anticipat-

1on of publiolty in the local newspapers, Including mention of the ostensible

residence of "Dandel CARSWELL". -, & Iive address In Bastchester set up by

MPO - requested to have Mr. (

the live addressee, briefed with details

of the SUBJECT'S cover story, procured from Dick Blades, CCD/MOC. In

sone minor details this story differs from that supplied by Jack Kennady,

JMARC, who requested the live address.

MPO was advised that GOLIATH employment ir interest in Substr was not

to be indicated to

poand advised that this cover stary was applicable

1f the publicity identified SUBJECI in his pseudo identity. In the event

of true nme identification and employment by the Cubans 1t was explained

thatfurther instructions would have to be given, since the matter of

acknowledgement of these individuals In such case was for presidential

doctoloz, reportedly beine made on ef Sept.

Per Biladeau, SUBJECT, as "CARSILI" 18 & production managerient consult-

ant, employed since May 1960 by Victor A. VACHUTA and Associates, 576.

5th Avenus, NYt.

Prio to this ho had worked in a similar capaoity for

the Air Force and had been stationed abroad extensively. He has been on

vacation fron Vachuta since 2 September. Biladeau advised that the

Vachuta employment 18 backstopped by & telephone answerding service

arrangement, which has been instructed similarly to acknowledge SUBJECT

in the event of inquiry.

Subjequent information from Joe Langan, JMARC Security Officer explains why

SUBJECT was backstopped thra JHARC to the extent he was, and the other tro

IsD technicians were not.

The operation on which they were sent to Havana

was an ASHARVEST one, under FE direction. On his own imtiative Christ

checked with Langan, was briefed and backstopped. The nother two never

passed through urine, orders out, briafings handled, stad, by FE.

МАШТи

Mullane Jr.

SEGLET

zied

---

