# 104-10186-10109

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10109

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Background Use only

Do Not Reproduce

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT

INCORMATION REPO RIMMINFORMATION REPOrT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S-E-C-R-E-T

DO TURFIGN DISSEN

REPOST NO. 65-311/04298-64

Seleccion and

Traliing of Cuban

DATE DISTR

12 October 1964

Intolligence Agents Abroad

NO PAGES

18

REFERINGES. CS-311/00115-64.

DATE OF

INFO.

1963-1964

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. June 196-1

FIELD ESPORT NO.

TNIS IS UNEVALUATED IMPORNATION. SOLACE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIE APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former cuban

intelligence officer who served with the Cuban

Inteliigonci Service until April 1961.

Introduction

1.

The Cuban

foreigr intelligence service, the General Directorate of

Intelligonce (Direccion General de Inteligencia - DGI),

charging its functior of protecting Cuban

interests and security

promoting the polegaes of the Cuban Government, employs agents

nationalities.

Although it's activitles extend to Europe

and Afriod, its principal agent strength is in Latin America.

Agents have in general tue types of assignments:

collection

Intormation on the local government and the local situation, and

promotion of revciultorir; activity, including guerrilla warfare.

Ali DRI agents abroad are therefore

divided into two basic case-

gorles according to jurction: intelligence agents charged with

collection of triormarion and penetration of local governments and

organizations, who are truly clandestine, i.t., are not known in

thets target countries as Cuban agents: and guerrilla warfare

charged with directing and supporting revolution-

setivities,

who are often known as Cuban agents to the local

leftist groups with which they

The two types

of agents are trained separately and are controlled by different

Del readquarters in Matana,

intelligence agents

by the Illegal Department (Departamento Ilegal, called

guerrilla agants by the Ly or National liberation Department

(Departaronio Itberacion Vacional).

Agent.

Selection

2.

The dol employs some agents of Cuban nationality,

as opposed to

stair members working abroad.

function as

intelligence agents,

1.c., ciandistine agilita under the Illegal Department, and are

5

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

.1

STATE

I DIA

І лен

REPCINCLINT

MAVY

TaiN'S

I die

(Nora: Troll distriburion indicated by "=""

INFORMATION REPORT

_INSA

Toce

TPBI

2

For Diethution See futached Bage

INFORMATIONUREPORT.

L$-1712

NP (AMMUC-I)

CS-311/01299-6-

CT LS

Nil! 'SA to (5),

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Hdgrs Disscm

Wll/COPS

WI/PO/A .

HIl/PO/B

HH/1

WH/2

WH/3

NH/3/V

WH/4

WH/5

WH/6

WIl/R

WH/SA/ EOB

WHI/SA/MOB

WH/S.A/R

WIL/SA/Int

WHI/SA/CI

WH/SA/SO/NS

CI/Staff

CI Liaison

CI/R&A

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/'3

AF/4

A5.1D

AF/S:I

FE/K

FE/SA

EF/BR

EL/YA

EF./H

EE/P

EF/C

EE/IIS

FE/INO/JO

FE/JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI.

NE/ AA/L&S

VE/AA/AP

NE/AA/E

NE/AA/I

NE/5/P

NE/G/C&I

NE/Intel

NE/CI

WE/1

H'E/2

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

- 18-

NS/3

WE/4

W'E/5

WE/BC

WE/R

SR/CI

SR/CI/K

SR/RR

SR/O/WH

Field Dissem

WH/MEXI

WHI/SNTY

WH/MRID

WH/SDOM

WH/PIBO

WH/POSN

WH/KNGS

WH/PRIN

WH/GORG

WH/PACY

WH/MANA

WH/SJOS

WH/SALV

WH/TEGU

WH/GUAT

WH/LAPA

WH/QUIT

WEL/LIMA

WH/CARA

5

5

•1

30

1

5

1

1

1

1

3

1

}

1

MANH

1

1

4

1

1

1

1

299

1

WH/LGRE

KH/RECI

HI/SA/WAVE

AF/ALGT

AF/ORNA

AF/RABA

AF/CASB

AF/ACCR

AF/CNRY

AF/BAKO

AF/DARE

EE/VIEN

1

1

1

1

1

1

5

1

HAHA

1

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

c5-311/01295-64

EE/SBUR

EE/CYRU

EE/ATHE

EE/KAVA

EE/ SLON

EE/BERN

EE/GNVA

EE/ZURI

EE/HAMB

FE/DJAK

FE/NEDN

FE/SURA

FE/TOKY

FE/OKIE

FE/SEOU

FE/SAIG

FE/KOBE

NE/COLO

NE/NEWD

NE/ BOMB

NE/CALC

NE/MDRS

NE/ KUWA

NE/KAHI

NE/DACC

NE/LAHO

NE/RAWL

NE, BAGH

NE/BEIR

NE/DAMA

NE/ALEP

NE/JIDD

NE/DAHA

NE/TAIZ

NE/CAIR

NE/ALEX

WE/BRUS

N'E/COPE

KE/HELS

WE/OTTA

WE/ROME

WE/MILA

HE/HAGU

HE/OSLO

NE/LISB

WE/MADR

WE/BARC

WE/STOC

NE/ LOND

-NE/PARI

Liaison Dissem

(E/Canada /

(RCMP>

E Uritish

99

1

1

1

]

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

---

## Page 3

someons

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSES

-2-

CS-311/04298-64

3.

recruited by that department.

Of three known agents in this care-

sory, one was a mumber of the Cuban internal security service, the

Department of State Security (Departmento de Sogurlead del

•Stado - DSE), Jullo Damaso Vasquer

Te was a trained parachutist

•t the time of hig rocruitment.

were friends of one of the Illegal Department officors,

One criterion for recruitment is that the agent sball

not have a wide circle of acquaintanco.

Agonts of other nationalities are usually recruited by agreement

• between a DGI officer ard

local Connunist or leftist organiza-

which the person belongs, but there are other possibie

sources.

Foreigners visiting Cuba.

Must foreign visitors to Cuba are

handled by the Cuban Institute of Friendship with Peoples

(Institute Cubano del Amistad con los Pucblos - ICAP),

arranges lor their travel to Cuba;

their itineraries,

and entertainment while there; and their return travel to

their

homes or other destinations.

The DGl has an arrangement

with ICAP under which members of the DGI NO Department

(Department of Illegal Contors - Departamento

Ilegales)

meet and interviow foreign visttors

for the purpose of extract.

ing any information of value to Cuba and of assessing them as

potential agents.

Contacts are so well camouflaged as

ICAP courtesics that few of the visitors realize that they are

1n touch with an intelligence agency.

The DGI does not deal

with forcign diplomats, who üre the responsibility of

but it has access to any other foreigners.

If the NO Depart-

ment considers any visitor a potential agent, especially if he

name and whatever it has

shows a Marxist of extreme icitist attitudeto elther the

it reports his

learned about him

Illegal Department of the DGI, which handles intelligence

agents not in contact with local Comnunist or leftist groups,

or the LN Department, which works with guerrilla agents

in

contact with such groups.

Referral is made on the basis of

membership in or attachment to an organized

group.

I rs

no case

does the NO Department recruit the

agent; that privilege 1s

reserved for the opcrational departments.

b.

Forcigners resident in Cuba.

The BC Section (Colonial Bureau -

Buro Colonial) of the Si Department (Department of Information

Departamento Servicios de Informacion) of the Dol

is responsible lor

screening

Toreigners residing in Cuba

(except diplomats) for potential agents.

Like the 110 Depart-

the BC Scotion makes no actual recruitments, but reports

potential agents to the Illegal or LN Department, according to

whether they are or are not affiliated with an organized group.

Persons volunteering information from abroad.

ment is also responsible for screening letters fror persons

abroad who voluntrer information or support to the Cuban

Its principal aim is to extract any useful in-

formation from such letters, but it also notes any persons who

appear to have agent potential and refers then to the proper

operational department for consideration.

d.

Nenbers of Communist Partios and organized leftist groups in.

Latin Amcrica.

The group recommends to a DGI contact--an

officer on a trip to the area, a local representative or agent,.

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEV

---

## Page 4

4-00000

S-t'-C-R-F-T

NG PREIT: DISSE

-3 .

(5-311-08298-68

• thrad00993 officer ds Cura 1f a Group Official 15

tario-aliy rod 185 mentory as cardidates for gurrrilla

traindon in cuba co lo thelr oun courery.

group agro on which of the cardidates are most suitable.

Dos agent niking with tho group may also recommnd mentors

for tradrira, a rotally a9 guerrilla lighters but passably

also an riardeclare treeligence agents: in the fired instance,

the reconn 111: 10n 1s known to the group, but in tre second

15 kept dier. from 18.

Recrustay ag iris sent do Cuba for guerrilla warfare training.

DG! 0118S:r: 060ar1e

guerrilla wardare and sabotage agonts

durine ab:ir training in Cuba and select those of special

porerala: ser roaruitment as untlateral intolligence agents.

Agents il cares Ircolligance services.

The DEl sririllues re-

a- dribin agenes engloyces of hostile in:ciligence

servis: usin utom ll conis into contail.

also to ::fried coat lo the DGI by the DSE 1f 1: has raregnized

and r-crud?.derim.

When an agin? :r. liary is proposed, the Illegal or li Department

reviews

rt': ivasiltle intormation abour him.

11 to 1= 111 Cuba,

18 may rags: d: DSE to conduct an Investigation; the DGI

Inspectson@.gor.r.ore egpreamento.intprcoronl, walch dials

primarily ur.l:

dit drail Corsonnol, has

Torrs ior submisalon to

the bst requirie an intossagation.

Since Ir: Dal dees not *e-

irtilligence cillegail agints to the

DSE,

not all hutto: dad.ddis die

thus investigated.

The opera

tional 1.9::9.005

salads triir agents on tha basis if all the

•? A pors0n1 recommendation from a DGI

stall member or licited axine.

The candidate is th cruited.

Cuban

sovernment ines for which they

are workare, lid! agents of defor catsonallies

ar: lc.: Nurrrilla

agents

raccoldrid dotalk ior their own org.on1zd.ion.

estenst-

and trillig ter agents ar usually audre oniy that ring are

working

sor lt: suban Gordinment.

They may belates that prey are

under the fore iction ol lee Cuban ding because miitar; jirson-

nel give sce: e! sh: instruition,

and tha muis sochistiirr.d may

bellove they are wader the DSE, which Is widly know. as

telligence organ.

Preliminary Trairice deracerents

5.

when a Cuhar agint is cecruitsd, a schedule for his training is

arranged 1i. mut a was thar li: car contanur his ormal marr of.

11 1o is employed in an office or lactory, li. continues

in his regular job: and the training is set up for ils im time.

If he is ananara; no dies ca living jus? as hi has biter, and

the training is cloduird for hours when his absince from tas

usual haunto li cur scticeable.

.

Agents fror forgign cointires are usually brougle le Cuba for

training ir. ather entriigaree or gecrrill adorage arrivatles.

The Dol 1s rollied of the agent's colection through channols

¡rom the field, and the contral Processing (Tramires, Fretson of

the IN Deparemn landlos arrangements for this

from Cuba.

Mimally slie agont candidate uses his own trail docu-

ments, bul retimes the group to which he belongs provides a

passport biopira to a follon citizen who has aircads born to

He wei! elain his cuban visa chrough thie near si cuban

S-F-E-R-F-T

SO FORLIGS DISSEN

---

## Page 5

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

CS-311/01298-64

2

consulate.

Since there are no official Cuban misgions in Central

America, the agent normally makes his

#ay to Mexico and obtains

his Cubian visa

there.

In order to keep secret from the author-

Itles in his own country that he is going to Cuba, the agent

candidate kivos another destination, and the Cuban consular

offIces help by Issuing his Cuban visa on i separate sheer of.

paper Instead of stamping lt in his passport.

The agent candi-

late may pay his own passage, but usually he i8 supplied lunds or

in airline ticket through à local DGI agent or the leftist group

to which he belongs; the funds are issued by the Central Process-

ing Section.

Whether he ts issued a ticket or givon money to buy

his own, the funds originate with the dol and aro forwarded to

the candidate's area through the DGI representation in the Cuban

Erabassy in Moxico.

7.

DGI officors attached. to Cuban consulatos are alerted to assist

agent candidates in their tràvel.

The agent 18 given a password,

which vartos from place to place; agents from El Salvador,

example, are told to mention "Hauriclo."

When a DGI Officer at a

consulato intorviews visa applicants, he expedites the visa for

anyone using the proper password; if the password in not use, he

the applicant for several days while he cables Havana

authority to 1asue a visa.

Il the visa is issued in mexico,

the Cuban Govern-

agent trainee 16 given a plane ticket on Cuban® Accommodations and

ment airline, and 1s

old when he 1s to leave.

subsistence are provided if the trainee has to wait for passage.

Agent candidates from British Gulana sometimes travel to Cuba by

small boats, not regular shipping

8.

Agent

trainocs going to Cuba use a variety of cover stories.

For

the local authorities,

their travel is to some other destination,

often as tourists, students, or laborers.

For their own group,

no cover story 15

required;

for their familles and friends, tour-

ist or student travel is the usual explanation.

For persons out-

side the group,

1f Cuba is known as the destination,

the cover

story is a scholarship for study at a Cuban school or university.

Groups of trainoes from the same leftist organization often travel

together from their own country to Mexico and

thence to Cuba, but

intelligence agent trainees always travel alone.

9.

Upon arrival at the Havana airport

trainees are met by DGI

officers appearing as ICAP officials.

The DGI has an arrangement

with the Cuban Immigration nuthorities under which persons of DGI

interest are cleared through entrance formalities without compli-

cations.

The trainees are placed in hotels while final training

arrangements are made, then are transferred to the schools where

their training will be given. or to private houses or apartments

if they are intelligence trainees.

The case officer from the DGI

department which will thenceforth

control their activities is re-

sponsible for them during their stay in Cuba.

Using the funds

allotted by the department, to provides them lodging, 100c, per-

sonal expenses; medical care, and anything else they

the training period; shoes

drawn for them from the bol warenouse.

clothing, and personal items are

10.

As far as possible,

DGI trainces live the normal life of students

and use the cover story that

studying on Cuban Government

in Havana are not restricted,

except that arrangements are made to keep them away from fellow-

citizens visiting or living in cuba.

Since most of their train-

ung is given in havana, and the course is intensive, they do not

S'-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEN

---

## Page 6

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREICS DISSEN

=5 -

CS-311/01295-64

11.

usually travel. to other pards of Cuba luring the instruction

perzud,

the setool to participate in

national campaigns for which all sudeos son drafted, such as

cane-cutting

and coffee-picking. After the tritning course is

completed, if there is any delay in returning students to their

own country, they mas travel outside Farand; trips ars arranged

and financed by the DGI lialson officer in ICAP.

During délas

periods, however, they are at the disposal el the school, trica

may use them in

'voluntary" campaions er o.tor ways.

Guerrilla

agents of the same nationality are kep: iogether if they belong

to the same organization, but trainees from different organisa-

tions of the same country

are separated.

Trainses of tro nation-

alities are never put together, and foraigners are never giouped

with Cubans.

In botk livirg quarters and training,

the illegal

intelligence agent is

separated fron guerriila

trainees

are

to hare as little cortact as possible

with persons outside. tre school.

Upon arrival in Cuba, each agent, is assigned a pseudonya, which

he uses throughout his trainirg.

Actually, within the guerrilla

schools, students in either large or sall groups use their real

names, since their identitis ars usuaily krow to their fellows

earlier association or traveling together.

The pseudone is

primarily a means of protecting the stud-nt from identification

by persons outside the setool.

For & lim, the Dül used the

pseudonsm only during the trining pornod and assigned anotter

when the agent returned home, but the confusion of keep-

ing separate

so great that the training pseudonya ras

adopted as permanent.

Sometimes, hours=r. Fs-udonyms are still

changed, for

security reasons,

when the studint leaurs Cuba or

a11.-? he has returned to the field.

Training of Guerrilla Agents

12.

The Ly Department, and spocifically th. sase offacer in charge of

a group of agents

to be trained as gu ridilas,

for their

instruction in the EF Department. (DEFArIEnt

Departmento Escuelas Especiales) or sor Der.l' Special Schools -

Tho case officer

himsell does not

conduct the training, which is entirely an EE

Department responsibility.

The stid-it group is assigned to one

of the EE Department schools in Hasant, by nationality; training

groups are as large as 25 and as small as three or four persons.

Courses last three to sir months, deproding on the typs of train-

ing and the ultimate mission of the agpats, but in sprcial cases

may last as long as a jear (two Guatemalars sir. trained tha:

The instructors are ail milstart, drawn from tre Cuban

1ong here 1s one for each militars specialty, and a political

instructor.

13.

Training covers all aspicts of guerrilla varfar, weapons hand-

ling, explosives, sabotage, demolition,

tactics,

engineering, etc., as well

as means of

countering anti-guerrilla

activities.

weapons are of both

Am-rican aud Communist-Bloc

Some specialized training is given, for example.

is a school for frognen at the routh of the Jaimanitas

in Barlovento, west of Havana, and too Guatemalans and a Dominican

trained as froggen during 1963.

Guerrilla agents de not

normally, however.

receive any communications training (secret

radio, etc.?: when they returr home,

for sending information and receiving instruction

and support is through the organized group to which they belong.

S-E-C-R-E-T

SO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 7

14-00000

• S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 6 -

CS-311/0-1299-64

14.

Practice in guerrilla warfare and weapons and explosives handling

1s. given on tho

school premises in Havana.

In addition,

both dur-

Ing the course and near its conclusion, groups of students are

taken to the Escambray Mountains in Las Villas Province to put

their training into practice ard to learn to live off the country.

They are integrated into regular Cuban army units for short

periods and take part in any military activities then in progress.

During 1963, for example, a group of Guatemalans and a group of

Salvadorians were taken separately to the Escambray and partici

operations then being conducted by the Cuban army

against anti-Castro guerrillas in the area.

15.

Guerrilla students are required to meet a standard of complete

familiarity with all the information and material forming part of

their instruction.

Examinations are given regularly; students

who fall them are required to repeat the instruction. A student

may have to repeat the entire course if he cannot pass the neces-

sary examinations.

There are many failures.

who proves completely incapable of mastering the course 1s

and an effort is made to find him a

• removed from the school ring the course, the instructors issue

special job elsewhere.

monthly reports to the school administration, both on the course

as a whole and on the performance of each student. A copy is sent

to the case officer.

Reporting on students covers personal

attitude, discipline, capability in study, political level, etc.

16.

While guerrilla training is in progress, two special preparations

for the future are made:

The first is the arrangement of the

agent's travel to his target area, either his own country or

Passports and other documents are prepared for his use

on the return trip; funds are allocated for his future activity:

and provisions are made for his carrying money or possibly special

equipment back with him if that is required.

The second thing is

the assessment of the trainee for other possibilities.

out the course he is observed and evaluated; if he shows more than

usual aptitude and ability,

he comes under consideration as a

potential intelligence agent

for collection of information or

penetration of his home government.

If a trainee is assessed as

suitable for intelligence-agent work, he is removed from the

guerrilla course and receives special

instruction for more

clandestine and more complicated

Training of Intelligence Agents

17. Intelligence (illegal) agents, from whatever source they are drawn

(foreigners visiting or resident in Cuba, contacts of DGI agents

or organizations abroad, or guerrilla trainees selected for

superior abilities), come under the DGI Illegal Department, which

is responsible for their recruitment, training, and subsequent

handling.

Since they are truly clandestine agents, their rela-

tionship with the DGI requires special security from its incep-

tion.

They travel to Cuba alone rather than in a group, and in

Cuba they are kept apart from other persons of their own nation-

ality and from one another.

Agents of Cuban nationality are also

kept apart from other nationalities and during training lead

normal lives as far as possible.

Both Cubans and foreigners are

kept from. contact with the Cuban Government or official circles

to avoid suspicion of any government connection.

As with guer-

rilla trainees, agents are assigned pseudonyms

for use with

veneral public in Cuba and for use in field operations later.

gents are not alloued any knowledre of any Dol installations

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 8

14-00000

S-E-C-A-E-T

NO PORFIGY DISSEU

- 7 -

CS-311/01298-64

18.

19.

20.

etcept the ones to which they are specifically assigned for train-

ing,

und never enter uny Del official establishment or the case

officer's home.

A foreign agent candidate arriving in Cuba is first debriefed by

the case officer on his background and qualifications, since up

to that time the DEl has only advance notice of his selection and

knows little about him.

The interview is recorded, but without

the trainee's knowledge.

On one occasion in carly 1961 a case

officer arranged to meet a new trainee in a Havana restaurant for

the preliminary intervlew.: The case officer provided himseld with

a pocket tope recorder, which he tested in advance and round was

In good order.

When he started to record the interview, however,

he discovered that he had either forgotten to adjust the mechan-

isn after he had tested it, or he pushed the playback instead of

the record button; the restaurart was suddenly electrifled by a

voice saying:

"Testing, ons, two, three; testing, one, two,

three."

The interview was hastily concluded and was rescheduled

the next day in the safehouse where the agent, a Guatemalan,

was

lodged; in this case, of course, the agent was aware that it was

being recorded.

The

results of

the intervier are entered in a

biographical questionnaire covering all aspects of the agent's

family situation, political viows, background and education,

employment experience,

connections, and intelligonce potential;

the document forms the basis of the agent's DGI personal file.

In adultion, the agent 15 required to urite a complete report on

the operational situation in his country, including types and

1o man peces el entertainment,

cating habits, working hours and holldays,

the

press

ald its type and circulation, urban and rural transporta-

oducational facilities, arlines, personal documents for

idertification, and local linguistic idions.

In cases where an intelligence agont is selected from among

guerrilla trainees, he may

remann urder the jurisdiction of

LN Department, which retains him as a guerrilla agent but arranges

for his training as an illegal agent also.

Training for intel-

ligence work, however, is always separate from guerrilla training

is not revealed to the Communist Party or leftist group

sponsoring the agent, who becomes, in offect, a semi-overt Cuban

agent in guerrilla activitles and a clandestine agent in intel-

ligence reporting or other funcions.

One such agent, trained in

was returned to the Dominican Republic about mid-

1963: he carrips on revolutionary activities with the Dominican

Popular Movement (Movimiento Popular Dominicano - MPD) as a know.

Cuban-trainad

guerrilla and at the same tire

works as an illegal

agent (under the LY Department), without the knowledge of his MPD

colleagues, as a penetration of

The case officer from the Illegal Department arranges for the com-

plete support of the agent during training, providing him lodging

in a private house or apartment, suppljing his food and clothing

and personal equipment from the

DGI warchouse as is done for

expenses of his dependent family are also covered

The case officer dos not give ans instruction, but

arranges with the MI Department (Department of Technical Opera-

tional Support) of the DGI for training the agent in the skills

he will require for his future mission.

The MI Department has no

schools or regular training sites but uses private houses or

apartments, which are procured and maintained by the DGI General

S-E'-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

---

## Page 9

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

8.

21.

22.

23.

CS-311/0-4298-64

Administration Department. The same safehouse is used for suc-

cessive agents, but only

one is trained there at a time.

ing the agent's operational. plan as lald down by the case officer,

the NI Department provides instruction in the necessary ski118

through its own sections and vartous departments of the dgI out -

side the operational departments.

All Illegal agents are trained in normal tradecraft elements such

as clandestine meetings, election and use of dead drops, recruft-

ment of agents, establishment and operation of agent nets (only

for agents specifically intended for network direction), use of

informants and collaborators, photography., and some form of com-

munication.

Practice in operational techniques such as survell-

lance and counter-surveillance and servicing dead drops is given

in appropriate sectiong of. Havana.

Each agent in addition 1s 1n-

given whatever communications training he will need.

tions receives special emphasis because all arrangements must bo

made during the training period.

Techniques include secret writ-

ing, codes and ciphers,

dots, and microfilm.

two techniques, and not all are trained in radio,

but almost all

reccive instruction on secret writing, which is the most widely

used means of communication between

agents in the field and their

case officers.

The type of communications training the agent will

reccive

is usually discussed with the

case officer by the MI

Department, but sometimes

the MI Department decides without con-

sultation

and

sometimes it consults

thọ SI Department for opera-

tional background on the country where the agent will work.

The ST Section (Technical Section - Seccion Tecnica) of the MI

Department has the

main responsibility

for agent communications

training and itself conducts the training in secret writing.

It

first requests the LG Soction (Chemical Laboratory - Laboratorio

Quimico), of the MI Department to devise and prepare a secret

writing system :for the agent's use.

Most systems depend on

sympathetic inks made with salt, blood,

urine, and other

materials;

the type assigned the agent. is determined by his mission and

operational situation.

Each agent receives a different

system,

although two agents working in the same operation use the same

correspondence,

An agent normally learns two systems, one for incoming

development only, and one for outgoing corres-

pondence, preparation only.

In addition, if he is to direct an

agent network of his own which requires

internal clandestine com-

munication, he is taught a third system, both preparation and

development, for use in the network:

The case officer not only

does not participate in the training but knows very little about

the secret writing systems,

since the processing of messages from

agents in the field is handled by the ST Section and he receives

for reasons of

securthy ded compartmentation, resus to tell the son officer

anything specific about communications.

The ST Section trains the agent thoroughly on the materials and

methods he is to use and gives him practice in processing messages

under direction, then in preparing test messages and in developing

and interpreting test messages prepared by the instructor.

training period varies according to the complexity of the system

and the requirement for competence from the agent.

where communications are of special importance, the instruction

may continue for two or three months with great detail, and the

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 10

14-00000

24.

25.

26.

-E-C-R-S-T

NU FOREIGS DISSEM

- 9 .

CS-311/04298-64

agent is expeceed to attain a high standard of performance.

An

ager: who fails

she' cuurse may have lo repeat. it, 1l the opora-

ttonal plan requins 18 and his schedule permits.

Training

normall! continues until the agent has achieved the desired pro-

liciency: an evaluaddon of his ability is included in his

f116.

actualls, however, secret writing training has not begsonas

uniforaly successtu? in Dol expertence, in some etres, communica-

tions from the agent in the firld could not be read at headquarters

because the secret orating uns improperly prepared, and agents:

have also had difficully.in leciphering messages sent to them..

Agents never prite directly to DGl headquarters; all their mall

In both directions goes through accommodation addresses,: usually

•In another country'.

instruction in sclection and use of

madation addresses is giron by the NS Department (Department

Legal Centers - Departamirto Contros Legales), which handles DGI

field

stations and thrit

correspondence,

addresses

are

sentation

and

usually in countrips where Cuba has official repre-

the field sparion saruices the letter drops.

going communications to agents so by diplomatic pouch to the fleid y

station and are alled from

headquarters go to an accommodation address,

up by

the

fiold

station and

forwarded by diplomatic pouch.

country used for incoming communications 1s usually different from

that for outgoing: an agent in El Salvador, for example, may send

his reports to Altana val doxico and receive headquartors direc-

tons and replies via Paris.

The

MIS Department controls the

assignment of accommodat don addressis.

Since the DGl believes

that there

is

lass digor of -sposing

the agent if his cover

letters containing secret writing are as realistic and natural as

possible,

the

agent is britied rot only on the accommodation

addross to which

de is to vrire, but also on the parsons who

actually live there--ages, lackercund, rolationships, etc. --so

that he can refer de carerday:

and firsenal int-rests or family

events.

The agert as alie aughe selection of

plausiblt but not

genuine return addresses for his outgoing communications.

Agents who are to leain codes and cirters and radio transmission

and reception are trainid by lt- ST Section,

which has its

own

radio transmitter for distrurion purposes.

The radios the

agents use in crairiry ald pricured in their own countries and

are adapted for cland-stine use by thr ST Section; most such

equipment is Western-made, art much of it is American.

The agent

learns transmission and tre:prich ind also is taught how to adjust

a commercial radio to his individual requir-ments and how to make

minor repairs on it. He may learn the standard Morse code but

usually is taught a rum-alcal cost arranged in groups.

secret writing, the case ifficir knows little about the actual

mechanics of the radio coumunications arrang-ments because radio

messages are processi cursed. :!: operational departmunts and

reach his only in the ferm of clear terr, and because compart-

mentation keeps hin from

acquiring technical knowledge.

gent sees onto ta

he know's little

the proficiency required of the

valuation report prepared by the

ST Section for the agent's personal file.

If the agent is also to receive training in microfilm and micro-

doi techniques, the Si Section arranges with the LF Section

(Photographic Laboratory - Laboratorio Fotografico) of the MI

Departeent for the use oi quipment and the

assignment of a

system and then itself gives the training. The Lf Section has

S-I-C-R-E-T

NO FUREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 11

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 10.0

CS-311/01398-64

all the: nicossary equipment..

Only few selected arents

gIVen

such Instruction.

One clandestine agent In the Donin,

Republic, who spent a considerable true In Cuba indis

well trained, was provided microfilm and microdot equtprent

preparing and developing messages, but his case is exceptiot

He was also taught how to make devices for. transmittine se

and microdot matertal securely,

THe preparatton.of

devicos and instruction in ther use are handled by notwer:

section of the MI Department, the ElB Section (Conceriment Devices

Section - Seccton. Embut 100s so prepares or consent

any devices he will need tot

codes back to

his own country when he fet

Final Briefinge

27.

then guerrilla agents have completed their training,

the:LN

Department case officer briefs the group on its mission In 1t8

home area, which is usually support of local revolutionary

activitles.

The briefing includes assignment of tasks,

explana-

tion of what support the group miy expoct and how it is to be

supplied, directions for reporting:to the sponsoring group,

advice

on security and self-protection; and the travel route to

be followed.

In addition, the group leader receives a special

briefing on means of communication with DGI headquarters, spectal

arrangements for supplying

the group or its sponsoring organiza-

tion, and perhaps the transportation to its home area of

propa-

ganda or sabotage materials from Cuba.

Although agents are

allowed to take notes during their training, they are not permitted

to carry any compromising material on their

return home.

All

final Instructions

are given orally and

are memorized by the

agent.

Actually, however, guerrilla agents do not always observe

security precautions about materials.

One Salvadorian guerrilla

agent succeeded in hiding in his luggage a copy of the Manual of

Guerrilla Warfarc he had used in his

training course, even though

the case officer inspected the luggage whilo it was being packed.

The case officer commented that unless another inspection was

made at the time the agent left his quarters to depart the

country of at the airport just before boarding the plane,

it was

impossible to prevent agents from carrying off such classified

matter.

28.

Illegal agents receive a more intensive final briefing.

reviews with the agent the general mission and specific

tasks ho is to undertake, all of which have been covered during

training, such as collection of information on his home govern-

ment or specific organizations, penetration of official organs in

the country or perhaps the local Communist Party or a leftist

group, assistance in communications ano

forwarding of material,

The briefing includes advice on security and self-protection,

refresher instruction on accommodation addresses for secret

writing correspondence, an explanation of the travel route for the

return Journey and the

documents to be used, and specific instruc-

tions for reporting to a group or commencing his assignment after

arrival, with a schedule

for initiating communications, depending

on his mission and his return itinerary.

Illegal agents receive

their final' instruction on communications two or three days be-

fore leaving Cuba.

Instructions about frequencies, which are

assigned by the MI Department,

conmunication,

procurement and preparation of

secret writing materials, etc., are

photographed and prepared for the agent to carry with him in a

concealment device. One agent returning to Salvador received his

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 12

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 11 -

CS-311/04298-64

radir

frequency data on film, which was rolled

and put into a

false heel on one shoe, prepared by the

EsB Section.

Agents who

29.

have them purchase their communications

country and provides money. for the purpose;

the radios ate thus

not attributable to cuba.. the agent usuary carries with him the

funds needed for procurement of

uipment and may occasion-

ally.act as a courior.carry.ing

special messages of funds. Normally,

for the purchase

of large equipment or aras

for guerrilla operations are sont by

diptonatit pouch of are

carriod by clandestine couriers.

In September 1963, for exanpfe,

sent U.5,$25,000 concealed in the lining of a suitcase

carried to mexicoby a diplomatic courter; there

ouet to an ageit for

the purchase of arms

to support revolutionary

activity in Nicaragua....

If agents are not able to lnave Cuba at once when they have cou-

pleted their tralning, they remain under the orders

of the school

if they are guerrillas, or of their case officer if they are

illegal agents.

They are permitted to travel in Cuba or aro

assigned to public "voluntary" campaigns; the case officers try

to keep them busy, partly, at least, as a security precaution.

Delays in departure may be due to lack of suitable

documentation,

difficulties

in arranging air schedules,

special situations in

or physical disability

of the agent--one agent

oroke his leg while in cuba and had to walt until he was able to

30.

The principal cause of delay in returning home is lack of suit-

The DGI case officar is responsiblo for procur-

Ing passports

for his agents' travel,

but he is often short one

or two passports of the proper nationality, because procurement

requires a longer time than the usual training period.

example, of a group of about 25 guerrilla agents from the

Dominican Republic who completed six months of training near the

the Dal had been unable ercher to provide passports for theirse

travel or to arrange for their return home illegally.

time the case officer was trying to have additional passports

collected and sent to

Cuba via the DGI station in Mexico so that

the stranded Dominicans could travel.

Return Travel

31.

As noted above, while his training is in progress, arrangements

are made to return the agent to his operational area.

guerrilla agents, this is their own country and sponsoring group;

for illegal agents normally it is their own country, but occasion-

ally, although rarely,

one is assigned to another area.

agents who have been trained together may travel back as a group;

illegal agents always travel alone.

All agents start their

journey by air to Prague, on Cubana Airlines, using false Cuban

passports, which they tugn over to Czechoslovak authorities, on

their arrival in Prague.

from there,

agents travel on passports

of their own or some

ports,

containing entries

related nationality to account for their

or even their own pass-

carefully made

period of absence from

country without

showing any connec-

tion with Cuba.

Both passports are provided the agent by the case

officer at the time of the final briefing, when the travel route

is also explained.

S-F-C-R-E-T

TO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 13

14-00000

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 12 -

CS-311/04298-64

32.

33.

34.

35.

the second stago of the aurnes

doparture from Cuba and

the first leg

trip;

Prague, are

arranged by ICAP, where the DGI has a liaison

officer, pseudonym:

"Ricando"

to handle such matters.

guerrilla agents are preparing to depirt, che case oftle

notif les

"Ricardo", personally, by tetephone, or

Matal decu-

ment,

and allocates the lunds they will need during the rest of

thelf stay in Subs and for their traves

The case officer in-

structs the agents to go to IcAP and estautich contret

"Ricardo".

thereafter is responsible for them as long ad they

remain in

If they are delayed, he arranges for

and in any case he provides them srbatstence and

travol in Cuba,,, aluo, through ICAP, procures their required

immunizations: an ÎCAP recuest for vaccination for a traveler is

an indication that the person is of interest to the Cuban intel-

ligence services,

since the ordinary departing visitor or resident

secures his lumunization through normal civillan channélo.

"Ricardo"

also ubtains alrline tickets and flight reservations;

the DGI reimburses ICAP for any funds expended by "Ricardo" for

agent travel and handling.

The processing of illegal agents is somewhat different from that

of guerrillas.

They do not go through ICAP or come into

hands; the case officer, working through the DGI Central Process-

ing Section, takes care of procuring their Immunizations, plane

tickets, and reservations.

They are thus not exposed to

Cuban agency outside of the DGI. The agent travels via Prague to

Western

curope and thence to his own country. At the final stage

of his journey, he may enter his own country illegally.

as he is back and established, he is ready to initiate

communica

tions with DGI headquarters in accordance with the instructtons

he has received and using the schedule he carried with him ina

conccalment device, which is opened only when he reaches home.

A Cuban

sent abroad as a DGI agent is considered an illegal agent

and does not

He may leavo

Cuba illegally; 1f he departs legally, he uses the normal route

via Prague but travels on a passport of another nationality than

Cuban.

Of three known Cuban agents prepared

for assignment

abroad, one was scheduled to go to Mexico during 1964;

the assign-

ments of the other two were not known.

A Cuban agent abroad

uses the same sort of communications channels as an

agent of

another nationality, according to the training he has received in

Cuba.

He is reimbursed through the usual channels--funds sent

through a DGI field stacion, camily

which for Latin America is always

Mexico; and in addition his

is supported by the oGI during

his entire period of overseas service.

An agont of foreign

nationality, once trained,

is not expected to return to Cuba and

is considered an independent operator with no communication with

Cubans except through his clandestine channels,

although in an

emergency he 18 permitted to appeal to a DGI officer in an

official establishment if one is available.

The policy regarding

agents of Cuban nationality had not been decided in early 1964,

since no

such illegal agents were then operating abroad.

It was

not certain,

for example, how long the Cuban was expected to.

remain in place abroad nor whether he would be allowed access to

DGI officers in the field.

From 1959 to 1962 the Cuban foreign-Intelligence service made

considerable use of shipping

for sanding. its agents out of Cuba,

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 14

4-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 13 -

CS-311/04298-64

especially into the Central American area and to the north colst

of South America. Since

1962, however, the practice of sending

agents home as crewnen has materially declined and in 1964 was

used only occasionally.

Effectiveness of Training

36.

The capabilitles of both guerrilla and illegal agents trained by

the DGI vary greatly because of differences in background, native

capacity, and adjustment to discipline.

The DGI has successfully

but some of Its trainees

trained a few highly efficient agontre agent with an excollent

have not come up to expectations.

training record, of whom the case officer had high hopes, was

arrested for participation in illegal activities after only a

short period of operation following his return home.

Several

agents who were considered promising proved disappointing when

released from training supervision; one who was given funds to

purchase a radio. spont the morey on himself and. was in trouble

with the group with which he was affiliated because of his lack

of discipline; another was accused of having misused funds en-

trusted to him for arms procur-ment and was also distrusted by

his group as cowardly and spiritless.

As noted above, Instruc-

tion in secret writing has not always been productive

of readable.

reports.

The main difficulty

appears le lie not with the qualit.

of the training but with the lack of discipline and loyalty of

the trained agent.

Headguarters Comments

1. For a discussion of the organization of the DGI and the

functions of its departments, from the same source, see

CS-311/00115-64.

2.

Cuba has diplomatic relations, and hence consulates, in

Latin America only in Mosico and Jamaica (relations were

Uruguay until September 1961).

Visas for Cuba can be

obtained only in those countries; most are-issued in

Merect be wuse cuat country has

the only direct air

3. Cuban handling of visas and documentation is discussed

at length by the same

source in CS-311/00866-64.

1. During 1963, many travelers from Latin America were

taken

to Cuba on chartered flights by Cuban aircraft

arranged to bring delegations to and from Cuba for Cuban

celebrations ate to van on depoember.

International

For the

latter occasion, the Sovirt ship NADEZHDA KRUPSKAYA

called at Santos, Brazil, to embark passengers for

Havana.

Among the traveling delegations were Cuban

agents.

5.

Source Comment.

All DGI ofticers arc also assigned

pseudonyms, which they normally use in all their pro-

fessional work; even close colleagues do not always

know their real names.

6..

The Cubans have also used special

Headquarters Commention Cubd to return agents to their

and charter llights

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 15

14-00000

S-I-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-14.

05-311/01298-64

as, for example, those arranged

international Union of architects in seprember 1963.

for the

;.

NO

S-E-C-R-E-T

FOREIGY DISSEN

---

