“toa-t0117-t00g4 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

. : SECRET

Danie) _L. CARSWELL,

1. he following U.B. documentation ves(prepared by TSD/IB in elia
ehiaae ,

Nev York Driver's License

Pennsylvania Birth Certificate

Social Security Card

Reserve Officers Association Membership Card
American Association of Engineers Membership Card
United States Fidelity and Guaranty Insurence Card
International Certificate of Vaccination

as indicated:

a. The residence, 14 Eton Place, Eastchester, New Yors, is a mltiple
dvelling unit and was provided by Centrel Cover. This address is shown in the Hew
York Driver's License, Reserve Officers Association Membership Card, U.S. &

G. Insurance Card, and International Certificate of Vaccination.

b. The Reserve Officers Association Membership Card shows that CARSWELL
is a Ceptain in the USAFR. CARSWELL stated to TSD/IB that his documents
should show that he is single. —

ce. The American Association of Engineers Membership Card is an existing
Organization. ‘The address of the Association is listed as 8 South Michigan
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

a. The Intemational Certificate of Vaccination vas prepared by the
Agency Immunization Branch and shows that CARSWELL wes vaccinated by Rolla
R. Wolcott, Medical Officer USPHS Outpatient Clinic, 67 Hudson St. New York
13, New York.

e. The place of employment which CARSWELL obtained from Central Cover
was not shown on any of the above documents. However, he was told by Central
Cover that he has worked for VACHUTA ASSOCIATES since May 1960 as a
production manager.

2. <TSD/IB provided CARSWELL with information-instruction briefs vhich
explained how he normally would have obtained his documentation.

3- When purchasing his ticket to Cuba, CARSWELL would have been required to fill
out two copies of a Cuban Identity/Disembarkation Card (Tarjeta de Identidad). One
copy of the TurJeta is picked up by Cuban Immigration Authorities upon landing in Cuba,
‘and the other copy is retained by him until he leaves Cuba at which time he has to
surrender it to Immigration officers. The Tarjeta contains the following information on

the individual:
Name Occupation Address during stay in Cuba
Nationality Point of Exbarkation Tourist, Transient, Resident
Country of Birth Carrier or Immigrant.
Age Flight Number
Sex Date of Arrival

Marital Status Permanent Addrese

SECRET

