# 104-10110-10077

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10,110-10077

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

28 Decester, 186T

BARTES; (CTARIES), FrADELECO AStORIO

AkE, BARTES, Frank

To deto there bad been no

infosatian thich lavalves Frank

DURCI

Nemorandus dated 20 Dovenber

1967.8705 EI/RuSA and Encloture 16

of Menoraniun Jo. 5 dated T August

196%

CIA CONNECT

President of Babar

supravas tor conta

1961 and May 2961

posed no abjections te

Ba vas to turnlah Information

Coro

prasted i Prontatonal Operationa

Approval On 4 January 1961 Sori

contact and "assessment for use on

Thle approved tas

cancelled 31 August 1961.

T October 1965 Sabfeet was granted

the he 0 Tea of at at seatos

vith fevorable renalte and received

an Operational Approval on 15 lovember

1965 POS USe ON a PA-PLlOT 1A AErIES.

He returned to the lalted Blates oa

I1 February 1966 end bla clearance

taß cancelled 28 Detober 1966.

OS INDICES RESULTS,

subjoet 1e 47 Jears old (born It Septender 1920 la Israna,

Caba). Ee vas POTHerly PresIient Of consolidated Palluays of Culoa

and also orned sugar and rice plantations, De left Oube beesuse of

bio opposition to CASTRO and entered the D. B. on l Jenuery 1961.

An FBI report dested Il June: 1968 Iol liev Orloans, Ioulelana codcarned

a tialt by BARIES to the leW Orlosas IBI offlee in shich he offered

1lo services to the U. 8. Coverment and seld he sould be ullling to.

cooperate with the U. B. dovernment In any scseptable plan the J. B.

right denise to combat CASTRO's government with no thougit of personal

gain of fevor. On 20 DecelDer 1966 BARIES called the llet Orleana DES

affic to infore that offlee that hia nother hal arzived from Cute

and vould be illling to provide information. le also stated that a

cousia, a 29 year old Cuban ballerina, Allela Cruz BUSIILLO, not'a

Commist and st1ll residing in Cuba, would be willing to bely the

U. S. IT she vere ayproached In the proper mannes.. There le no:

TECONS OS ALLOSE CRUZ BUSITITO In OS In8ICOS and nO IndIcatIon that

these offors vere acceptable ly the Agensy..

GROUP. 8..

Exclanted frora astorali

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

1 June 1906 irank BAlJ:3 Taparted tO oX beY orlanne do

close that lawrence JOseph LABAHll, Gerald P. HaMIlt, Jee, an

and Kenneth DAVIS called on hia and salA thay vented to train

TiEn Terugoes an guerrilla fletters und demolition experte 80r

EIA P, SINMIHO, eXA JENTY PATRIOT, "shoved up 1E lou Orleans

mently it the invitation al local Cubes lavolutionisy Conserl

pers and otber Orbais uho manted to tabe direct neston agalost

30." The artiale relatad hon "pATRIOR" inde rogulir tripa in and

SECRET

---

