A_AAAAL
1404-10065-10093) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

7097 | SECRET Fre: /4 a
STAPE
CONF: INFOS ODPD=D, VRy FILE, DDO=4, C/EPS/COMP,
“¢ C/EPS/EG=2; C/EUR=6, C/0G/DMS, C/PCS, C/PCE/PGL, COMPT, DDO/DO, ICS, OLE,
2° (237P)
“78 1057685 PAGE 001
TOT: 2323582 OCT 78 DIRECTOR 313322

( e mene.

SECRET
STAFF 2323582 DIRECTOR 313322
TO: VIENNA, ‘

(. RYBAT WNINTEL CODEL
REF: DIRECTOR 215762

1, SUBJECT REF TESTIFIED BEFORE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTTEE ON
ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) UNDER ALIAS IN MAY OF. THIS YEAR, HSCA HAS NOW
C REQUESTED THAT HE COMPLETE AN INTERROGATORY IN THE FORM OF SWORN AND

NOTARIZED AFFIDAVIT, LETTER TO SUBJECT REF FROM HSCA ADDRESSED IN
ALIAS, INTERROGATORY INeSEALED ENVELOPE AND REPLACEMENT FOR PAGE
C THREE OF INTERROGATORY ALL POUCHED 20. OCTOBER, TMe424650, PLEASE
OELIVER LETTER AND UNOPENED INTERROGATORY TO ‘SUBJECT REF AND INSTRUCT
HIM TO COMPLETE INTERROGATORY WITHIN FIVE: DAYS SUBSTITUTING SEPARATE
PAGE oe FOR THE ONE ATTACHED TO THE INTERROGATORY IN THE SEALED
ENVELOPE,

2. WHEN SUBJECT REF HAS COMPLETED INTERROGATORY, ARRANGE FOR
HIM TO SIGN IT IN ALIAS IN THE PRESENCE OF MR, ERIC CARLSON, WHO
SHOULD THEN NOTARIZE IT AS CONSULAR OFFICER, COMPLETED INTERROGATORY
SHOULD BE CLASSIFIED IF SUBJECT DEEMS NECESSARY AND POUCHED BACK TO
HQS IN SEALED ENVELOPE MARKED "TO ‘BE OPENED ONLY BY THE HSCA®,
USE TRIPLE ENVELOPES, MARKING SECOND ENVELOPE TO BE OPENED ONLY BY
CHIEF, PCS/LOC, AND OUTER TO BE OPENED ONLY BY CHIEFr E/AS TO AVOID
INADVERTENT OPENING BY HQS POUCH ROOM,

3, REASON FOR SUBSTITUTING PAGE THREE FOR THE ONE ATTACHED TO
THE INTERROGATORY IS TO OBVIATE. ANY POSSIBLE LEGAL OR TECHNICAL
PROBLEMS CARSON MIGHT HAVE IN NOTARIZING SUBJECT'S ALIAS SIGNATURE,
ene BEEN CONSULTED AND CONCURS IN THE: SUBSTITUTION OF NEW PAGE
HREE.

4, ADVISE BY CABLE WHEN INTERROGATORY COMPLETED -AND POUCHED,
5S. FILEs OEFER, €2 IMPDET, >

ORIG; C/PCS/LOC (SHEPANEK X1839)3 COORD: OCG (MORRISON), OLC

C (BRECKINRIDGE)# AUTHt C/E/AS (DUMAINE)? REL3 DC/EUR/CS (THOMPSON),

SECRET

a

oOo a

Qo 8 @ 4

C

- eet seinen O97 ES


14-00000

i € : K
SECRET

STAFF

78 1457685, : PAGE 002
ToT: 2323562 OCT 76 OIRECTOR 313322

(Co Sem oee teens sone wwnremasecwesneteneneenmcenasronsnencsennaenasanasasonnaceroes

CL BY 026339.

® 9

(a)

a

la

END OF MESSAGE SECRET
