# 104-10186-10259

## Page 1

104-10186-10259

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONFORN

MATTON REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TAla mararel anatalas latorecia annilaR the Maltonel Iranno ol lDo UnllAl plar MilAla eDe IneDire ol lna Saptonaço Lama Treto

18, 080.

-5

3

2

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Cuba

REPORT NO.

CS CI-216/V0715-64

Julio DAMASO Vasques

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

8 September 1964

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Orly

Do Not Reproduco

SOURCE:

1964

Washington, D. C.

Sentember 1964

FIELO REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DERINITIVE. APPRAISAI OR CONTEMI IS TENTATIVE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency,

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

Individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first checking

with this Agency.

An individual whose true name is not known but uses the name of

Julio DAMASO Vasquez, pseudonym "'Serglo," Is il Cuban Intelligence

staffer. He has been trained for an assignment to Central America in

parachuting,

secret writing codes, ciphers, and radio, but who until

very recently, was still in Cuba, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,8

Headquarters Comments

1. The following traces are possibly identical with the Julio DAMASO

Vasquez above.

2. In a report dated 28 April 1959, there was included a list of 87 names

provided by the Guardia Nacional of persons aboard the fishing

STATE

1 DIA

I ARMY

REP CINCLANT

(Nota, fratd dleriburton Indiered by " s".)

LAiR

INSA

OCR

LEBL 2

_CINCSO #

-I&NS

INFORMATIO

SREPORT

LNEORMATLON REPORT

WH/SA/EQB1

NE.ER1

NASA NORA

CILIA

NEL MADRI

MEICANADAIN

BENISHITISHE

WH/SA. CI4

WHLYAVEL1

LX-1655

NO PROJECTIANNL

CSC1-316/

COOTOINATINO

WH/SA 7(1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

AIA1B0N.

201-759695 ano 10-9-1

PORM NO. 8

3/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

+041-84414810-09

TO FORD DISSEM

-2-

vessel, Masari, when d8 landed near Mandinga, Playa Colorado, Sin Blas

Territory,

Pinamil, on 25 April 1959. The Guardia Nacional did not

rereal their source, however, newspaper accounts indicated that the

Guardia found a list of the 87 names on the reverse side of a United Statea

Naval chart aboard the Mayari. Included on the list was one Julio NUSCARO

Vilsquez, possibly identical with Julio DAMASO Vasquez.

A fairly reliable source, in a report dated 15. May 1959, stated that

lic was present during the mitial questioning of the Cular rouths wha were

captured at Portobello during the invasion of Panama. He identified one of

the jouths as Julio Damaso VASQUEZ, born about 1936.

He was a medical

student who had one year of study left before he could get his degree. He

juined the Sierra Morena rebel forces and was made an army doctor and given

the rank of captain.

Julia banally eliable was on in por dated 29-2 nast 1d ol, eradd that

friend in Panama a position with Radio Rebelde.

5. In a report dated 2 June 1962, an untested source reported that

Julio DAMASO was the administration chief at the Moa Bay Nickel and

Cobalt Plant and a Communist. He said that DAMASO participated

in the Cuban attempt to invade Panama. Source descrived DAMASO as having

been born about 1935, being about five feet nine inches tall, having

a medium build and white.

6. An untested source, in a report dated 22 December 1963, said that

Jullo DAMASO Vasquez was a lieutenant in the Departamanto de Seguridad

del Estado (Department of State Security - DSE) detailed to Minas de Mon,

Baracoa, Oriente Province, Cuba, DAMASO was a close friend of Ramon

VAZQUEZ Montenegro, a known Cuban Intelligence Serrice officer.

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

...ajiaréçio

sian inves

---

