(104-10256-10337| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

re i
. ! : {

eee ae i j :

| Chie’, Appraisal Section oem 4 JUL 1958 ;
| . 7
i Ward K. Greene H
{ Appraisal Section : j
WILCOPT, James Bernard, Jr. £10930 !

_  -WILCOTP, Elsie Louise 109300 :
: :

{ : 1. The Subject persons are man and vife- James Wilcott is currently i
‘ assigned es a Staff Agent, GS-OT, to DDP/Wt at JMWAVE. His wife was en- :
ployed by this Agency{under Contract Type A Clearance at the Tokyo Statloa) L
during 1960 and has held past staff employment but does not appear to be . i
currently employed- The Caief, PSD has requested that an overall review

of the Subject persona' records be made in Light of information which heg~—~—
recently teen develoged-. Such information indicetes that James Wilcott

bas had contacts with possible. known Communists end with individuals in-
volved-in-the integration. movement.. be te age tesd eat tneseer eae eaten stan

2. A review of the file of. James Wilcott reflects that he is 33 years
of age, married, and native-born of. native-bom parents. He graduated
: from high school in 1948 ond from 1948 to 1.952 served in the United States
\ Amy. From 1953 to 1957 he attended college, being privately employed during
i the care veriod- On March 1997, James Wilcott entered on duty vith this
f Agency. During polygrapa interviev.at that time,

. . i _ and vas
favorably re-polygrapzed. in 1958. His security file reflects no derosetory
information from 1953 to.the present, with the exception of Amy medicak
records reviewed in 1956 which indicated that he “complained continually
of backache, but that medical examination revealed no organic cause.
Conference with his Company Commander revealed en ‘extremely poor adjuat-
went' to military life and indicated that he continually used his alleged
redical disebllity in order to get out of work and built such a wall cround
himself that his Company Commander felt that he was of no use to his outfit.”

3. A review of Elsie Wilcott'’s file reflects that she Is 30 yests
of age, married, and native-born of native-born parents- She attended
college until 1954 and from 1954 to 1956 was orivately employed- In March
of 1957 she entered on duty with this Agency as a Clerx-Typist, GS-ok,
having been favorably polygraphed- In Septemver of 1958 she resigned to
continue her education. In 1960, Elsie Wilcott was issued security 22-
proval for Contract Type A employment at the Tokyo Station. (She end 1
Jazes Wilcott were married in September of 1954.)



CONFIDENTIAL

kh. Qn § April 1965, James Wilcott advised 4 representative of EAB
that while visiting with members of an integration movement, he had come
in contact with an individual who professed to be a member of the Communist
Party. Although the reasons for his contacts with these individuals are
not entirely clear, a review of Subject's statements reflects the follov-
ing: On 10 April 1965, James Wilcott, hereafter referred to as Bubject,
was in contact with one Ray Robinson Junior (NR-08 Indices), « representa-
tive of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee. Robinson asked
Subject to come to 1618 Corcoran Street, Washington, D. €. to meet a number
of integration movement people. According to Bubject's statements, when
he arrived at this address & group of about eight people were sitting around -
“drinking and smoking marijuana." Among these was one Alex Passikloff E
(NR-08 Indices), a self-admitted Communist. :

5. After various discussion vith menbers of the group, Subject agreed
to drive Passikioff and one Alfred Smith, a student at Howard University,

to New York City. They arrived in New York City about 5:00 a. m. onl Aprit
~1965;ané went to the” apartment of friends of Passikloff, {dentified as

Joseph A, and Betty Rotandi (NR-O8 Indices). The Rotandi's are also de-
seribed as dedicated Communist Party members. _ During this day, Subject,
Pasaikloff and the others visited an individual identified as Blyden Jackson
(WR-O8 Indices) who 1s the head of a new o: ation called Council for
Jobs and Freedom of New York (HR-OS Indices). Subject and others also
“ended up" at the West Side W. B. B. Dubois Club in Nev York City. (The

W. BE. B. Dubois Clubs are well identified as 4 new National Marxist organi-
aires by J. Edgar Hoover as “apawned by the Communist Farty,

Uv. &

6. There are a number of questions currently unansvered in the case
of the Subject persons. Among these are: How long has James Wilcott
been involved in the SNCC movement?; Where was Elsie Wilcott during the
trip to New York City; and Why did James Wilcott allow himself to become
involved {n thia matter to the extent of going to Nev York City with these
persons ne visiting other individuals who are allegedly self-admitted
Communists

Te Subject has apparently reported to his atation at JMNAVE. How-
ever, itis believed that hia involvement with the aforementioned individuals
ie extremely serious, for the most part because of unansvered questions.
Therefore, it is considered that he should be interviewed in depth as soon
es possible regarding hia involvement in this matter. Tt 1s recommended



| GONFIDENTIAL

that the Security Officer, JMWAVE be briefed on this case and asked to

conduct @ comprehensive interview of Bubje

Wits 5

Ward K. Greene
Appraisal Section

CONFIDENTIAL
