[104-10210-10154| weve] 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

ree) :
“- CVEMPO 1561389 312616352 ISP)
he geno a :
@ ior 7 SECRET FRPE op ph eo st :
; i
Cm C/EURK 46352 STAFF F
ACTION: C/LARE INFO? FILEs VR, C/EUF+6, ODPD=D, C/OG/D4S,

78 150/389 PAGE 001 Im 1563389 ;
2416332 LOV 78 MADR a194a1 + at

S-E:C RE 1 1416082 NOV 76 STAFF

CITE "ADRID 4194)

SEHD RYBAT AKULE KDAFGHAN

cS
=)
2)
© tos PRIORITY DIFECTOR INFO FEXICO CITY.
e
REFS: &, DIRECTOR 323590
B. DIRECTOR 324426
e :
j 1. STATION OFFICER SA« KDAFGHAN/1 (K/1) 14 NOVEMBER
i TO ADVISE HIM OF HOUSE SELECT COMITIEE DW ESSASSINATIONS
(HESS) DESIRE INTERVIEW HIN, K/1 DOES NOT KELT TOTALK TO
} HOSA, HE BECAME VISIELY UPSFT AT PROSPECT. HE ASKED .
i “ REPESTEOLY THAT GE PLEASE TSY TO ULDERSTARG HIS POSITION, :
HE HAS CORTINUED TO RECEIVE HARASSING AND SCrETIFES THREATENS
1 ING TELEPHONE CALLS SINCE L&ST SUYER'S EXPCSUPES (LAST CALL
i WAS THO KEEKS 460) AND FELKS FOR HIS PERSONAL SKFETY IF THERE-
\ IS MOXE PUBLICITY. KE SAIC FE -HAD TRIED TO START A NEO LIFE
Ih SPAIN (HE ITS NOs A SPANISH CITIZEN = SIICE MARCH 1977),
AND TnéT HE CALE CLOSE TU KEING FIRED FROM KIS JOB LAST
SUSMER BECAUSE OF THE EXPOSJRES? HE FEARS TREAT MORE PUBLICITY
COULD HOT BE AVGIDED EF HE sERE TO TALK 10 HCSA, AND THOT
THIS COULD RESULT Ih HIS LOSING HIS LIVELIFO®D AND FORCING
HIN To LEAVE SPAIN, wnICH bE DOES NOT “ANT TU DO. HE 2LSO
STK THAT HE HAS EVER ADATTTED BEING ILVOLVED alTH
14 SEES bub THkt IT 1S ThE CUBANS! sOPD AGAILST HIS ABOUT
THAT ACTIVITY, KE SAID IF HE FERE TO ACCEPT At: HOSA
VIE HE OULD In EFFECT BE -ACKOSLEOGING THAT HE DID
COOPERATE ITH RD HE FEARS THIS eUULD HAVE AN
ADVERSE EFFECT OW HIS PRIVATE ALD PROFESSIUYAL LIFE. KE
OESERVED THAT HE DGLBSTED THERE IS ANYTHIEG HE COULD ACO TO
WHAT HCSA MUST ALREADY KAOw, AS HE ASSU“ED BCS MUST HAVE
ACCESS TO ALL THE RECORDS.

o 9

o

hy

cs)

SECRET

© 80 8@ 6 @

rw nensscaten ei ishint



® @:'9 6 © @ @ of

SECRET”
STAFF

78 1561389 ° PAGE 002 IN 1561389
. TORS 1416332. HOV 78. MADR 41944

2. K/1 IS EQUALLY AS RELUCTANT TO TALK TO HCSA OUTSIDE
ThE U.S. 48 IN THe U.S, KE ORVICUSLY FEARS FCR KIS PERSONAL
SECURITY £40 HIS CAREER #1Im BERLITZ. HE SAID HE HAD PLANNED
TO VISIT THE U.S. CVEK CHRISTMAS TO SEE HIS BROTHER, BUT
THAT HE HAD EVER CECIDED AGZINST THAT FOR FEAR IT WOULD BE
CONSTHUED AS HIS MAVING SOME OFFICIAL U.S. COMNECTION.

3. FILE: 201-0286248, E2 IMPDET

:

