SECRET - SENSITIVE

Draft Memorandum to the DCI from William Harvey

Dated 27 November 1962

This is not a controlled item
aos 28 nok 2 controlled iten

7 pETIeN oan
Background Use Only J

or

+ 43


42 Now, 1242

ey

a
“THIS DOCUMENT IS
A SOURCS RGFIAEUCE
In cs RECAL - «

—D0 NOT DESTROY—

the: co/Cmamuiat ragins eo cetard érvelp-

*'maae of the Guba ecsnmy ead asintain @ drain

on Bloo resources,
Maintain waxisum coverage of Cuban inte! 1iq°r->

7 ; Foquixeumnts,

“wyrising, aplte in
WD SECRET
SENSITIVE



#20 \
ue om Cuban-Blos relationships.

Soviet /Cabea and: Chinese/Coben relationsh‘ps,
‘Keonenie.
Tedietest ee

le Assist'and support. ‘State ia any feasible aation ts
develop active cas: aad. LationAnerican eountzy wnyp ot:

fox the of Castro,
a Shi iw 7 .
SENSITIVE ie = =a]



jeuklal mater and supplies from ceathing

z¢



Spied a
EL See
Mebexerey opp

a PCS Paras 70

2099) No fow





faces assete axe

AEE F.

4S sense fet)



ne MONET Tne eee ene

abit,

4

SECRET - SENSITI ve}

27 November 1962

Note: Discussed 27 tevenber
1062 by DD/F witu LCi
end approved gener:i
im principle by [CI,
Pally concurred in

. ; by BD/P,
‘muons oa FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
vapoucn: Deputy Director (lens)
SUBJECT: Operstional Plen for Continuing

Operstions Against Cubs

2. Action: Tiis meaorandua is for your informetion
and pursuant to your request, Recomsendations for action rra
contained ia Paragraph V below. The purpose of this xemesro ss)
ia to delineste an operations} plnn for the action which wr

believe should be taken by CIA ogsinst Cuba fur the precictahls

future, In summary the plan provides for cratinuing, even
intensifying, the intelligence effort egeinst Cubs sad fcr

- the reorientation of the current effort into » long tern

denied area type of operation of the highest pricrity.

I, ASSUMPTIONS:

A. The United States Government will lve public
assurances that, provided no nuclesr or offeusive weapors 220
present or re-iotroduced into Cubs, end provided Cubr deer
not take action to threaten the perce ond security of the
Western Hesisphere, the United States dces not ingend te.

A scurcn ©
mcs

invade Cuba or support en invasion of Cuba.



surances will preclude any meaningful CIA
4 e ‘
action “on a phased basis to provoke a revolt inside Cube, since

unless there are major changes in operational and internal con-

. ditions in Cuba, such a revolt if provoked would be totally

destroyed” by Cuban meee eee ina. Pad of hours or, at

88 practical matter will preclude invading Cuba on the pretext

‘of a contrived provocation such as an attack on Guantanano.

2 C., CIA, operations Anvolving a, high noise level and «
distinct @lenent of -attributability, particularly paramilitary,
“ guerrilly, and conimando type operations will be unacceptable
as a matter of policy.

D, The Castro-communist regime will remain in power for
ithe indefinite future with its security and control apparatus
. relatively intact and with the capability not only of crushing
unsupported resistance activity, but of making operational

* conditions in Cuba increasingly difficult. While it is

possible that recent and future developments including the
Soviet action in removing the offensive wespons from Cube sry
serve to weaken and discredit Castro, there is as yet no herd

indication that the control of the Castro-communist regime over

Cuba has been substantially weakenod.

EB, The United Stat:

isurances of no invasion and no

support of: an invasion will, in effect, constitute giving tr

Castro and his regime a certain degree of senctuary. This will
'



weverely dcmage the aorale and motivation of anti-regine Cubene

both inside sad outside of Cuba, which will make it “‘incresing iy
difficult for us to. recruit agents, maintain agents already
recruited, and. continue or intensify our intelligence and other
efforts against Cuba and the Castro-communist regine,

ne Despite. the above factons,: Higher duthority probably
wild gontiaue’ ‘heavy. premmire, on: the: cu. for a maxinun effort
ocainst | aba ‘and may even contiliue to contend that the ultinste.
objective is the overthrow of the Castro-communist regine.

“This. is an unrealistic objective, however, except.on a very
iong-tera bagis. as the: Vaited States Government, we believe,
will be unwilling aa the. inmediate future to comait troops

7 to support such an overthrow. The United States Government

in its overt dealings with the Cuban exiles probably will not
‘express. ‘the above factors to them in hood context or with the
bluntness: stated here,
'G. In view-of these factors, the sd-called “Irnck Tro!
- course of action, 1.¢., unlimited support of Cuban exiles
sud exile groups with no real control or objective purposes:

in the hope that these groups will be able to shake the

Castro regime Will, although unrealistic, becouse _increzsing ly

attractive st various levels in the United States Government.

a. As a matter of policy, political pressures ond
economi pressures short. of blockade, raids, snd aggressive
sabotage against Cuba will be continued.



a 4 In vlew of the above assumptions prramilitary, commant

and sabotege operations, except in rare selective instonces

Will serve little purpose; also they will be counter-procuct tye
since, it undertaken, they will make the collection of Aaptolli-
gence nore diftionlt and should only be undertaken in those very
few instances. where’ an unusually high return can be demonstreted.
Regardicas of What other pressures are placed on CIA for

action against Cube, it would rppear clear that Higher Authsrity
will insist on Db continued, even intensified, fatelligence
coverage of Cuba. . “

a ‘In view of the policy fectors, an iocreased use of
facilities, ‘real estate and basing outside the United States,
particularly in‘ Latin Americs, will be both necessary snd
desirable.

EK. Adequate serial reconnaissance of Cuba will continue.

Based on the above
appear to be proper for continuing CIA operations against

sumptions, the following objectiven

Cuba:

A, Take 11 feasible clandestine sction to isolate
and assist in isolating the Castro-conmnist regine in culn
from the rest of the Western Hemisphere snd the rest of the
Free World. D =

Fo. the maxinum extent possible, discredit the Castro-
comminist regime in Cuba and in the Festern Healsphere and the
rest of the world.

~4-


id 9

La C. Maintein through clandestine mesns, short of commands
and querrills type operations, the maximum economic and
political pressures’ on the Cuban regime and economy not only

for the purpose of hampering the Cuban regime, but for the
additional purpose of insuring the maximus possible drain on
Bloc resources used to, support Cubs. E
: i o Maintain. maximum’ possible datelligence and counter-
-datelligence ‘coverage of Cuba, “{neluding particular emphnsis
on: .
al. Capabilities and intentions of the governzent.
2,‘ Aetavities of the Cuban G-2 and its other
security orgsis. - :
3. Soviet and Bloc activities: in Cuba.
4. State of potential resistance, including the
{ | morale and temper of the populace.
5. Militia ond military order of battle end equip-
! ment. ,
6. The loci of power and of possible stresses

3 snd strains in the power centers in the Cuban goverumont.

4 7. Belationships between Cubs, USSR, Red China,

the Bloc, Lstin American nations and other Free World
-end uncommitted nations.
8. The level of and the weaknesses in the Cuben

5


RB. Treke maximum action to induce a split in the Cuben
regine. end maintain the capability of capitalizing immediately
through clandestine means. to the extent possible on any

| significent uprising, revolt, resistance, split in the regino,
or Strains nd stresses exong Cuban leadership or in Cubra/
Bloc. relationships, ,
. a OPEEATIONAL PLAN:
: . Espionage and Intelligence Collection - ann fersible

effort should be uncertsken to continue snd intensify intelli-

gence: collection concerning Cuba. The status of. our intelli-
BS gence’ collection and related operational activity at the
" present time and its development during the past six months
is delinested .in detail in Attachment A, which was preprred tr
serve ss the basis for. the i's report on this perticulsr
7 matter to the President's Board of Consultants on Foreign
Intelligence, “You will. uote that this lengthy docusent
breaks down under numerous sub-beadings the intelligence
coverage which has been developed. by the Clandestine Service.
Set out below aro specifics of operational oction it is
proposed to take to continue and, as possible, increase !n-
telligence coverage of Cuba.
1. Intelligence Exploitation of Refugees: As you
know, with the quarantine and the cessation of air
travel the heavy’ flow of Cuban refugees bas dwindled

“<glmost to nothing, In view of this and in connection
: -6-


with the contingency plonning for supporting any persibios
military action in Cuba, the Opa-Locke Interrogation
Canter as such was dismantled, ‘although. the personnel

of the ‘Center have been retained intact. In order to

Bode the flow of intelligence from refugees,
- it ts Proposed that. Pan Auerican Airweys and KLY be
" dndueea' to ‘rolnstitute their reguiar ‘flights from

Havana to Miami. This should be done 6 soon as
possible efter the settlement of the current negotinttons

and UN discussions. Coincident with this, the Opa-Locka

refugee interrogation center will be re-established

“with the same pérsonnel.

2. : Resident Agents in Cuba: Every effort will be

“made to continue to exploit to the fullest, preserve the

viability of and, where necessary, re-establish communica-
tions. with the 131 recruited agents now resident in Cubn.
To an extent, the speed and effectiveness of this effort
will of course depend upon the stringency of future
Cuban security snd control action, which it is impossible
as yet to accurately forecast.

3. Third Country Operations: The priority on re-
eruiting agents in third countries for dispatch to Cuba
will be reiterated end strengthened and every effort

Will be nade to jncresse this coverage, both through

the cere ore of additional Fesldent egents in ‘Cuba

-1-



ae vac the developnent os additional legal travellers:
y erations:® ‘We will continue to press

the [isaigon: services] wo are assisting us in the effort

agninst Cuba’ for additional coverage, including the

recruiting of agents macs their own areas for joint

: dapat to Cuba, The [perv icesJaoat effectively co-~

operating at ‘this point in this connection sre the

! Direct

approsches to several of these (services|either by you

: personally or in your nane, as you prefer, are

being separately recomuended. Personal representation
a
by you to the[services] underlined sbove would be useful,

in addition, we will re-survey all other G@tatson , dervices]

with which ve are in contact and reiterate to those
appearing. ‘to have eny aasets usable against Cuba our
extrene interest in maximum coverage of this problem,
In connection with the fitnison] probien generally, we will
endeavor to induce all of f the [iatson services} to make
greater use of their [national] assets, both inside and
outside of Cuba. Perticular attention will be given to
possible utilization of the

oa 5. itime Operations: In eddition to increasing
effortd to get at gesmon agents end other aaritine
assets through Ftaison' services') we will continue our
unilateral third country efforts to recruit seamen anc

a


sain inci

prrticularly Cuban seanen, to increane the twenty
officers and. crew members sboard six Cubsn vessels we sre
now running as controlled agents. .
© , 8. Penetration of Cuban Installations Abrosd: At
the’ present time we are running 12 Cuben diplomats

stationed outsice Cuba as controlled sgents and have viable
* ‘ @perations aimed’ ‘at. an additional 20 Cuban diplomats.
: We propose te continue and intensify the current progren _

of attempting to recruit or defect every Cuben officin!
representative abroad to whom we can gain access apd
concerning whom we have any reagon to believe a
susceptibility to approach exists. These additional
penetrations will be attempted both through[uatiaters1]
‘operations and where appropriate in conjunction with

fitaisoa services. }

7. - Audio Penetrations of Cuban Installations

Abroad: At the present time we have audio and/or
_ telephone tap coverage, of Cuban officisl installations
in!

— . _. ¥o
major expansion of this coverage is presently
contemplated, but we will continue to survey sdditionsl
targets ef. opportunity and wherever possible iastsll

coverage in those cases where the additional intelli-~

aCe ffom this type of source over and above what we

are now receiving would appear ‘to nake such Lnstalirtien
+ worthwhile,
~0-

Ta


2, Sommuniertions Intelligence: Wo wlll continy-
our present CIA Close Support coversge from the KOLA

station infMinm{Jat the saue level end will continue
to ‘Fress NSA for sdditional coverage of Cuban Comerniee
tons. An the current situation "normelizes" it should
be possible fer NSA to reinstitute end perhaps even
‘Ancrease their: gseoborne datercept coverage of Cuban
communications.

9, Communist Party peeeeeees A complete survey
bes been made world-wide of all Communist Party
penetration operations and wherever any such penetration
can, be directed egainst Cube either by dispatching the
agent to Cuba or by pointing the agent. against Cubrn
‘targets, “this ‘wilh be done, except in those cases where
such action would result in unacceptabigorejudice te
“the operations in the srea where the ngent is now based.

It is believed that the. nost lucrative field for the
redirection of such operations to the Cuban target will
“pe Latin America where there are 65 panetrations of
various communist parties. Of this 65, the survey

ve bave conducted indicstes that 23 have some direct
pertinent access to Cuban targets. All of these 27 wi My
be directed against these targets unless in any cose

s there, sre overriding reasons.to the contrary, The
‘Femaining cases in the total of 65 are bein individually



Je ck

. a2 5
fi . , : . ‘
i” 10. Illegally Infiltrated Agents: The two

siccessful black infiltrated teans (COBRA and AMTORRID)
which have produced substential intelligence will be

; continued, resupplied, end reinforced but pointed
‘privartly at continued intelligence collection and rt

the wecruituent for intelligence collection purposes of

"other Cutians who already are legally resident in Cubs

in the areas where the tens are operating (Pinar 4e1
Rio and Oriente). In addition, on the most carefully
selected basis, where it appears feasible, ‘additional
agents ond teaas will be infiltrated black into Cuba

in an effort to duplicate the perforuance of the COBRA

.20d AMTOBRID teams and particularly to. recruit ang, sa

Possible, train additional agents legally resident in

11. Exfiltration: As feasible, sgents and potentist
recruita now in Cuba will be exfiltrated for

‘training, indoctrination, supplying with communications,

and motivation. They will then he re-infiltrated inte
Cube, primarily on intelligence missions. where possible,
this will be done through legal trave! chaaonels, but
where this is not possible, it will be done wherever
feasible through our black infiltration-exfiltrstion
ilities, primarily our msritine assets,

-ll-


B, Much of the above effort as noted will be primarily
directed towards developing all posaible evidences of stress 7

or strain within the regime and between the regine and other

| antions, particularly the Bloc. An intensive program will
ba‘ continued to. take advan' of any ible it:
_ to weaken. subvert, ox split the. in any ble.

faghion,, This is basically = long tera effort, A great deal
of work. slready has gone into’ this and the current

status of this program and the proyosed further expldtation
of the numerous’ leads wo ‘have developed is being. made, in

the interests of brevity in this memorandum, the subject of
a separate compilation. the effectiveness of assets aimed rt
actually splitting the regime, i.e., # palrce revolt, will of
_ course depend, to an extent, on the willingness of the United
: Btates Government to support them and it is entirely possibie
“that! any’ guch effort might fail unless supported with militery
forces ‘which on ‘the basis of the assumptions in Paragraph I
above would appear unlikely.

C, Sabotage: On the basis of the assumptions set cut
above, commando type sabotage, minor sabotage, and other
acts of sabotage inside Cuba would appear to serve little
purpose end should not be undertaken excopt in the rare
instances where an opportunity is presented with acceptable
Fisk to do major damage to the Cuban econony. It 1s proposed
to contidue searching for such limited opportunities, but

no active or wide scale program is conteupleted..

rl.



: D, Parantlitary, —Coumando, and Guerrille Type Operations:

Given the assumptions in Paragraph I above, no wide scale
program ef such activity should be undertaken, However, we

. prepese to maintain in being our present facilities snd

the capability of undertaking. such operaticna in order to

“fully exploit any substantial change in internal Cuban con-
, ditions or eny substantial revolt or uprising which might occur.

B, Economic Warfore: It is proposed to continue pnd
intensify the program already undertaken to deny through
clandestine aud covert means critical materials to the Cuben
eoououy., This consists primarily of denis! operations, possibly
sone preclusive buying and inducing frindly U.S. and allied

firas and governuents to prevent the shipments of strategic

materials to Cuba.

-. Counterintelligence: The current counterintelligence
and counterespionage program against the Cuban G-2 and
related services will be continued end as possible intensified.

This ‘program has developed substantially and it should be
possible within the coming months to increase its effectivensas
considerably in countering not only Cuban but Bloc intelli-.
gence operations mounted against United States interests
from Cubs,

G. Political Action, Propaganda, Psychologicr1 Warts.
ta this field the following tasks will be continued and where
appropriate intensified: —

iy 1. Assist and support State in re feasible ecti-n.

-13-



attitudes favorable “to the containnent ond/or pease]
of the Castro-communist regine,
“2, Aesist state tn the development of post-Centrn
- Concepts, leaders, and political groups.
“3, Stimiate, support. and guide covertly the
* propaganda sd political section activities of the crc
and. other Cuban political Groups ead individuals, ra
®ppropriate, who offer a Potential for impact ingide
Cuba. . . o 7
+ Develop, maintain and exploit the Will of the
: Cuban People to resist Castro-communian, making maxinun
use of the downgrading of Castro and his Tegime during
the aissile crisis.
“8. Discredit and ridicule Castro end ais regine
“in Cuba, in the Heuisphere snd @lsewhere, vith emphosis
oa the thene the missile erigis demonstrsted con-
.Clusively that Castro is nothing but s sere pawn of
Soviet imperialisn,
. 6 Continue "Radio Americas" sad other cla
Sponsored Cuban exile radio brosdeasts «3 appropriate.
v Launch propaganda balloons after an operations!
Capability has been established and Policy authority ts
poeneed, to conduct Propaganda balloon operations.
‘8, * Contime the infiltration of Propaganda materin1
dato Cubs via open mails, legal travellers and couriers,

‘with special emphasis on selective black operations,

=u.



ic Hy Exploitation of Exile Groups: We whl continue

the clsidestine exploitation of exile Groups for intelligence |
collecttog, Psychological warfare and other approved missicns.
[As fesathle, we will act to mount as mich of this effort ex
possible from areas outside the continental United States, end
. particularly from Latis America. Iz Higher Authority decides
“oa a “Track Two" concept. or on. any, ‘pimtlar concept which
_contenplates ‘heavy uncontrolled and only generally directed
action operations of Cuban groups agsinst Cubs, it is belleved
| that efforts should be made to transfer as meh as possibte
of the. responsibility for this non-clandestine, non-intelligence
“type. operation into the politics! field, which is the province
;of the Department of State. In this connection, it is believed
jit would be sdvisable to press for the creation within the
: | Departuent of State of an office of Cuban Exile Affairs to
| henaie the overt government relationships with Cubsn exil>
f eroupe. . :
TV, ORGANIZATIONAL AND PROCEDURAL CHANGES:
Maximm inplomentation of the above plan which provices
for the moat intensive feasible collection of tatelligenc7,

the implementationof related programs as outlined, and the
muintenence of capabilities to exploit targets of opportunity
i as well as take advantage of any future substantial changes
in internal Cuban conditions will, it is believed, permit
and uake advisable the following:

-15-

4



!
i
|
|

A, A gradual but substantial reduction in the expenditures
and pergonnel of Task Force W, , o

B Consideration of the re-positioning of Task Force W
within the Clandestine Service, possibly ss ® major component

of. the WH Division under different direction.

C,. The abolition of the operational Mongoose méchanian,
D. The Famoval of the past frauework which required

detailed consideration by the Special Group (iugdented) of

even minor operaticnal details and decision by comaittee on
points which it, is believed ore completely within the purvier
of the DCI and those officers to whom he delegates decision.

. ¥.. RECOMMENDED ACTION:

A. Your concurrence in the above general operational plan
iw recommended.
7 B. -It is recommended that you discuss this plan with
the Special.Group (Augmented) and secure its comcurrence.
C; It is recommended that you secure from the Specin)

_ Group (Augmented) policy approval to attempt to induce Fan

American Airways and KLM to resume their flights between Ahaal
ond. Hsvena at the appropriate time.
D. It is recommended that if sny "Track Two" concept
1s proposed, you endesvor to transier to the Departament “£
State all possible overt aspects of this type of uncontrolled
-16-


wubsigy ond support. of. Saben, exile groups.

3B. It is; Feconmended | that. Lo Mongoose epee

. neclianien be abolished,

a If you concur in this concept, specific recommendation

WALT be made to you, concerning the re-postttoning of Teek Force
ae) within the DOP. : .

WILLIAM K, HARVEY
Chief, Task ae w

