# 104-10227-10095

## Page 1

4-0000

104-10227-10095

ada.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

(ame 8118: 10)

AND FILO NOT TO OR ASTON

'іном:

RID/ AN

2601 L Bidg.

WH 4, Reg

2715 QI

INFONMATION FOR

REGUESTINS

A. CHOPLISE. ISENS I INHOUCH 11.

8. 188. м

3- ALL.

FILE. TITLE:

MUST DC STERILE SINCE THEY WILL

APPLAN ON TUE FIELO COPI: AND ON MACHINE LISTS.

C. TIM', A AMU S-USE FIRET THULE LETTERS OF DISGATCH SYMBOLS

AGH FIELO DIATIONE AND LITE HIADQUARTERS ELEMANTS ACCORD

INS TO LITAOLISHEO ADDRLVIATIONS.

D. ITCM B-ALL REMARKS MUSS DE STCRILE.

$1.0%.

ART.

MELATLO TO

THE. FILT

COVINTO EY NIS MIGOLST. TIEND MAY ALSO Ar VErD

TO GIVE SEASONS FOR

THE. AL TIEN OCIMA GEOMESTRO, TO POINTIFY

THE

TYPE 46

MATCSIAL

OTNER AXTLANATORY RENARAS.

PO OF PLACRE IN A FILE OR TO MAXE

F. ITEM

10 - 4

RECORDS CROICER MUST SLIN ALL TILE ACTION RE.

QUESTS. CONSULT YOUR ENO ON ANY DECOLIN; LUAS ARLIE..

'YPE OF FILE

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

2.

FILE NUMOCA

caredoni

SUBJECT

PROJECT

COUNTAT HUMORN

19

124

5. PEE Tirir Ispeciric suostari

AMBUD

GUBAN ARNOLFF ABHARK-ASUNCIL - General

A, INTCRCSTEO STATIONS

IS. INTENTiTCO NFACOUÄRTERS DESX

HY.H HKS

4a.

019

ACTION REQUIRED

7.

AMENDELLE TITLE

ANALYSIS ACTION

CLOSE. FILE

(INDICATE DISPOSITION!

OISPOSITION

orSTROY

YF.ARS

FILES ACTION

MOLO AS UNRESTRICTEO

FILE

MOLO IN FILES RESTRICTEO

TO (DESK)

PREPARE FOLOIR ANO

SEND TO REQUESTER

WH/4 PA

ОСЕТНОЙ АТТЕЯ

B.

REPARKS (FOR FIELO DISTRIDUTION)

2473

NOT FOR FIELD DISTRIBUTION

9. COMMENTS (INCLUDE SPECIAL HEAUQUANTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONSI

AMBUD IS THE CUBAN REVORUTIONARY COUNCIL

COORDINATION

12.

CODORSEMENT-

палисы/ОкАя а, О.

Aftandall

¡ADO CARO

EFTECTIVE DATE

27

FORM 812

prican 61

USE PHEVIOUS

EDITIONS

ReQUEST ADANONID aI

Frank f. l'm are

PUNCH AND VERIFYING SECTION ACTION

_ SURSTITUTE CARD

I REMOVE CARO

FILE NUMBER

1.24

SECRET

D-FILE COPY

---

