# 104-10147-10335

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10147-10335)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1.401

SECRFT

FRP: .?...

STAFF

ACTION: LA-8 (792)

CA-4. COS-2.

INFO: FILE, VRA DEIDPA, DOU-4, CS/RE. DUA, CAPCS,

DED- 4. 0G0-20

OLC.

CUMMO-TA CHO-2, EPSIEGOR, IPADMS, LSN/IÜ, ODPO-D,

S4+00/0, SE-&, SECUR=3, SIM, SIA/FLO SIAIL.

(63/10)

78 0258730,

PAGE 001

TOR: 270151Z JAN 78

IN 0258730

(MEXI 43699

SECRET 27000BZ JAN 78 STAFF

CITE MEXICO CITY 43699

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

#NINTEL PAVIEN MHSPLASH •

damage therefrom.

rewald

REFS:

A- DIRECTOR 154131

-

B. DIRECTOR 154958

C. (MEXICO CITY 43602 02.36567

D.. MEXICO CITY: 43710

1.

REVIEN OF FBI DOCUMENTS RELATING TO LEE HARVEY

USTALO TRANSMITTED BY TM-25006 WERE RECEIVED AT (STATION

25 JAN AND HAVE BEEN REVIEWED.

CONCUR HUS ASSESSMENT

CONCERNING POTENTIAL DAMAGE WHICH CAN BE DONE TO STATIUN'S

OPERATIONS AND LIAISÓN ACTIVITIES AS RESULT THEIR REVELATION.

SHOULD DOCUMENTS BE SURFACED MEXICO CITY. BELIEVE WE CAN

ANTICIPATE THAT SENIOR MEXICAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AND

OUR LIAISON COUNTERPARTS WILL BE SHOCKED CAS THEY WERE IN

CASÈ OF PREVIOUS REVELATIONS) THAT ANY GOVERNMENT COULD

WILLINGLY REVEAL INFURMATION SO EMBARRASSING AND COUNTER-

PRODUCTIVE TU BILATERAL RELATIONS.

IN ADDITION TU THE DOCUMENTS LISTED IN REF H.

THERE ARE OTHERS WHICH COME CLOSE TO CONFIRMING CUMKUNIST

ALLEGATIONS CONCERNING RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN FBI/CIA AND

MEXICAN SECURITY ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICIALS-

H05 WILL

RECALL IHAT KDIMPACT/1 SPECIFICALLY WARNED (REF D) ABOUT

-CO-OPERATION WITH THE MIIVISTRY UF GOVERNMENT BEING MADE PUBLIC

AND SAID THAT THIS WOULD "CAUSE GRAVE PROBLEMS FOR ALL

CONCERN CONE AUNT RECENT SEDUCE LIED TO ANARS THE

MEXICO CREE Care

SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS WHICH WILL SUPPORT THE

COMMUNIST ALLEGATIONS ARE AS FOLLDAS:

BLIND MEMO BY FBI DATED MARCH 16, 1964 CAPTIONED.

LEE. HARVEY OSWALD. "

FIRST PARAGRAPH:

"A CONFIDENTIAL

SOURCE ABROAU WHO

IS THOROUGHLY FANTITAR WITH THE WORKINGS

OF THE MEXICAN MINISTRY OF GOBERMACION LINTERIOR HAS

-

21712

SECRET

---

## Page 2

4-00000

..:::

SECRET

780258730A

CORKECTED COPY

PAGE 002

TOK: 270151Z JAN 78

IN 0258730A

(MEXI 43699

FURNISHED THE FOLLONING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE PRÚCEDURES

UTILIZEU BY THE MEXICAN IMMIGRATION SERVICE IN CUNNECTION

VITH THE ENTRY AND DEPARTURE OF NON-MEXICAN CITIZENS INTO

AND OUT UF MEXICO."

B. URGENT CLASSIFIED TELEGRAM TO DIR/FBI FRUM

•LEGAT MEXICO CITY, NO. 360, DATED 2-7-640 CONTAINS STATEMENT:

"LIC. LUIS ECHEVERRIA. ACTING MINISTER OF GOBERNACION. WILL

BE NOTIFIED RE PUSSIBLE POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION OF KOJAS, HIS

IDENTITY AND ALLEGATIONS MADE BY RUJAS RE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

AND ECHEVERRIA'S CUOPERATIUN REQUESTED TO CONDUCT SAID

EXAMINATION."

c.

APRIL 28, 1984 REVIENS INVESTIGATIUNS CARRIED DUT BY FBI

AGENTS IN MEXICO CITY.

UNDER "SA JOSEPH B. GARCIA" ON PAGE

TWO APPEARS THE FOLLUMING REPORT:

*HANDLED LIAISON WITH THE

MEXICAN MINISTRY OF GOVERNMENT. RECEIVING COPIES OF DOCUMENTS

AND DATA FROM LICENCIADO (ATTORNEY) LUIS ECHEVERRIA. ACTING

MINISTER, AND THE SUB-DIRECTOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IMMIGKATIUN.

LICENCIADO RAFAEL HERNANDEZ OCHOA.

ALSO HANDLED LIAISON WITH

THE MEXICAN FEDERAL SECURITY POLICE AND ARRANGED FOR DELIVERY

OF A CUPY OF THE SIGNED STATEMENT OF SILVIA-TIRADO UE DURAN

BY CAPTAIN FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS."

D.

BLIND FBI MEMO DATED MAY 5. 1964 AND CAPTIONED

"LEE HARVEY OSHALD" SAYS ON PAGE 9:

"ON MARCH 24. 1964.

CAPTAIN FERNANDO GUTIERKEZ BARRIOS, SUB-DIRECTOR OF THE

MEXICAN FEDERAL SECURITY POLICE (DES), ADVISED THE THIRD

CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ABROAD THAT HIS AGENCY HAD CONDUCTED

NO INVESTIGATION IN CONNECTION WITH THE TRAVEL IN MEXICO

OF LEE HARVEY OSTiALU AND DID NOT HAVE IN ITS POSSESSIUN ANY

PASSENGER LISTS FROM ANY BUS LINES."

OTHER DOCUMENTS OFFICIAL RECOGNIZE THAT CIA IS

ACTIVE IN MEXICO CITY.

- THAT CIA MAINTAINS A STATION IN)

MEXICO CITY, HAS JUKISDICTION OVER AND MONITORS THE

ACTIVITIES OF THE CUBAN AND SOVIET EMBASSIES. AND CUNDUCTS

"SENSITIVE COVERAGE" OF THESE INSTALLATIONS

(PHOTOGRAPH)*

PRIOR ALLEGATIONS OF CLANDESTINE ACTIVITIES OF THE FBI IN

MEXICO ARE ALSO CONFIRMED BY STATEMENTS SUCH AS "DECLASSIFICATION

(OF THE DOCUMENT) WOULD DAMAGE OUR OPERATIONS IN MEXICO

CITY," REFERRED TO IN AT LEAST FIVE DOCUMENTS.

TRO UF THE

OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY. ANOTHER MEMO DATED APRIL 1. 1964

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

STAFF

78 0258730A

CORRECTED COPY

PAGE 003

TOR: 270151Z JAN 78

IN 0258730A

(NEXI: 43099

ACKNOWLEDGES THAT CIA HAD AIN OPS INTEREST AT ONE TIME OR ANOTHER

IN THREE ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS, THE DRE. JURE. AND JOTH UF

NOVEMBER.

4.

HOS STATED IN REF B THAT IT HAD MADE RECÖMMENDATIUNS

TO THE FHI/FOIA FOR FURTHER DELETIONS IN. AND DEWIAL OF:

CERTAIN DOCUMENTS. ME ARE ESPECIALLY CONCENNED ABOUT THE FOUR

DOCUMENTS LISTED IN PARAGRAPH ONE ABUVE.

PLS ADVISE URGENTLY WHAT

ACTIOS HAS TAKEN BY THE FBI CONCERNING THESE SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS.

PRESUME THAT ALL DUCUMENTS NON MADE PUBLIC AND THUS TOU LATE

TO DENY THEIR RELEASE.

5. (STATION PLANNING PROVIDE COPES OF ALL THE

DOCUMENTS TO KDINPACTAI IN ORDER TO ALERT HIM WHAT TYPE OF

PUBLICITY MAY BE FORTHCOMING.

6. FILE: 200-120-150. E2, IMPDET.

END

OF

MESSAGE

SECRET

---

