# 104-10256-10403

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10256-10403

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO

1

SEN R WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND - STOM

~ASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL HOUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

5p1738

3

5

6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

He attactiedt; Fyl. There to an

ricte up on donget attaches to thei

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: MAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

DATE

UNCLASSIFIED

ronnya 237 Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FROM:

INCIDENT KEPORT

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

DATE 14 October 1973

TIME _

1115

NAME Mitchell WerBell

GRADE N/A

OFFICE

N/A

INCIDENT_Call requesting to speak

with Mr. Colby

_ TIME.

1115

_PLACE Powder Spring

Georgia

tel (404) 943-3533

5/01

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: The Agency Operator advised that Subject was

calling requesting to speak to Mr. Colby.

Subject stated that he had just finished talking to "Air Chief

Marshall, Dawnee," Bangkok, Thailand and had some information that

he wanted to pass to Mr. Colby. Subject was informed that the

Director was not available and that the undersigned would take &

message and insure that the Director was informed of his call.

Subject declined SDO's invitation to leave a message and requested

that the "Thai Desk" be informed of his call and then terminated

the call.

Files in SR&CD reflect that Subject is generally categorized as a

con man, unscrupulous, wheeler-deeler and a promoter of grandiosa

schemes.

1566-93-1095 Hornet-

X1421, C/THAN DESK,

DOVIDiO DE ABOVE AND WAS FURNISHÃO DUBTOCIS DOI FILE#

(201-25-9910)

deside may Funnel perion by birto or sonin =

CASECLOSGD

ACTION TAKEN: Briefed

DCI/SS, and ORS CIR/D0. Cust hur

(Olarao l, Saines)

Thomas A.

Gaines

REPORTING OFFICER

03

L. Paul Shade

CHIEF, BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD SEC (PTOS

COPY: C/PHY. SD

COPY: C/PSD

OPY: DCI/S

"Administrative - Intenal Use Only

F. ORM 1798

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

fe-f-7

FOITIONS

17 ti)

---

