# 104-10056-10111

## Page 1

1104-10056-10117

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

7-..

• DISSIM DY

TOTAL COPILS

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

E2,

IMPDET

LCL.

• BY: 006687

AGENCY MESSAGE

LA 10

ETION "

CoPy

ISSUER'SLOTTES

FILE, VR, MOXKORRSSAKHNERE IP/DNS, LID, PCS/INT,

CI 4, CA 4, SIAN SIA/IC- KAFR 5.

208158

E1 A4 97

PAGE B1

IN 416872

TOR: 282050Z SEP 77

K.NGS

2295€

S•E CRE T T SEP. SEP.77 INTEL

HJK-733

CITE KINGSTON 22958

TO:. DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL INTEL RE AM

SUPDATA!

ERWAHDO FOR HOS REVIEW,

PROJECT SLEEPER. SLHORIZON-1

•FROM PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE, NOT PASSED LIAISON. NOT

FOR PASSAGE TO LIAISON, THIS REPORT SHOULD NOT FPT

NOT BE PASSED TO GNGRAPH. O.D. OBJ N-1, INDEX:

BROWN, MUNROE:

FILE: 103-8-20 201-8870260. CLBY

858245. HJK=733.

= FILED:

281 9 45₴

S

E

CRET

28 SEP 17

1925

0.0

9

---

## Page 2

13-00000

JU!S

POrTIONS

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION CABLE

DATE 28 SEPTEMBER 1,977

IN

416072

PAGE 1 OF4

PAGES

SARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METIIODS INVOLVED

The following report, transmitted from a ClA field station, requires review within the Directorate of Operations before being used

in any other document. or publication, or released outside the Agency. Pending resulis of this review, a copy is provided for your

advance information.

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

DISTRIBUTION TO:

SDO

E-2 IMPDET CL BY 007622

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIŒNCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-- NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN

NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI

CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION

CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

COUNTRY: "CUBA /JAMAICA

DO!:

SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER 1977

SUBJECT:.

CLOSED MEETING OF MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY

OF CUZA AT THE CUBAN EMBASS! IN KINGSTON ON

24 SEPTEMBER 1977

CO:

SOURCE:

JAMAICA, KINGSTON 126 SEPTEMBER 1977 REPORT NO. HJK-733

A CUBAN OFFICIAL VISITING JAMAICA, HE WAS PRESENT

AT THE MEETING DESCRIBED BELOW, ALTHOUGH IT IS

BELIEVED THAT HE ACCURATELY REPORTS WHAT HE HAS

BEEN TOLD, HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN DETERMINED.

1.

ON 24 SEPTEMBER 1977, ENRIQUEMONTERO

LEZCANO, MINISTER-COUNSELLOR OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON.

..

ADDRESSED THE REGULAR MONTHLY MEETING OF THE MEMBERS OF THE

COMMUNIST PARTY OF CUBA SPCCI ASSIGNED TO JAMAICA, MONTERO

WAS ACTING IN THE PLACE OF THE CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO JAMAICA,

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13:00000

3007

GASOIEHIONVIOUS

IN 426072

TDFIR

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

(classification)

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT:

RAMON PE Z FERRO, WHU RETURNED TO CUBA ON VACATION ON

21 SEPTEMBER, THE MEETING TOOK PLACE AT THE EMBASSY.

2, MONTERO SAID THAT INTERNAL DIVISIONS WITHIN THE

RULING PEOPLE'S NATIONAL PARTY (PNPY OF JAMAICA HAD RESULTED

IN THE RESIGNATION OF D. K. DUNCAN AS PNP GENERAL

SECRETARY AND MINISTER OF MOBILIZATION. MONTERO SAID THAT

THE APPOINTMENT OF RALPH BROWN AS THE NEW PNP GENERAL

SECRETARY HAD BEEN GENERALLY WELL-RECEIVED WITHIN THE PNP.

MONTERO DESCRIBED BROWN AS A MATURE, EXPERIENCED PARTY

DEFICIAL WHO WOULD BE ABLE TO SERVE AS A "MODERATOR" BETWEEN

THE "RIGHTISTS, " "MODERATES" AND "LEFTISTS" OF THE PNP.

3, MONTERO COMPLAINED THAT THE JAMAICAN PRESS HAD

EXFLOITED BROWN'S RECENT

TRIP TO CUBA FOR ITS "CAMPAIGN OF

CONFUS ION", IN FAILING TO REPORT THE PURPOSE OF THE TRIP,

THE PRESS IMPLIED THAI THERE WERE UNKNOWN, SINISTER

MOTIVES BEHIND IT. MONTERO SAID THAT BROWN HAD GONE TO CUBA

MERELY IN ORDER TO ATTEND THE FIRST CONGRESS OF THE CUBAN

COMMITTEES FOR INE DEFENSE OF THE REVOLUTION CODES, TO BE

HELD 24-28 SEPTEMBER,

MONTERO SAID THAT APPROXIMATELY 25

FOREIGN COUNTRIES WERE TO SEND DELEGATES TO THIS CONGRESS.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

D.7M 3007 •ORSOLETIONVIOUS

IN 416072

TDFIR

IYARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classl/ication)

(FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO THE PRESS, BROWN LEFT JAMAICA

ON 23 SEPTEMBER FOR A THREE-DAY VISIT TO CUBA, THE PURPOSE.

OF WHICH WAS NOT INDICATED. ON THE NIGHT OF 27 SEPTEMBER,

IT WAS REPORTED ON JAMAICAN TELEVISI ON THAT BROWN HAD MADE

A STATEMENT CONCERNING HIS TRIP FOLLOWING HIS RETURN THAT.

DAY TO JAMAICA.

HE SAID HE HAD GONE TO CUBA SOLELY IN

ORDER TO ATTEND THE COR CONGRESS, AND HE CRITICIZED THE

DISTORTED MANNER IN WICH THE JAMAICAN PRESS HAD REPORTED

ON HIS TRIP.

i1-4, MONTERO BRIEFLY ADDED THAT DR, TREVORMUNROE.

LEADER OF THE WORKERS' LIBERATION LEAGUE PULLI, TRAVELED TO

CUBA FROM JAMAICA ON 21 SEPTEMBER.

HE DID NOT INDICATE THE

PURPOSE OF MUNROE'S VISIT TO CUBA..

.. FINALLY, MONTERO SAID IT

WAS QUITE PROBABLE THAT BELARMINO CA STILL A MAS CUBAN

VICE MINISTER OF CULTURE, WOULD VISIT JAMAICA DURING

THE SECOND HALF OF OCTOBER.

5, MONTERO CALLED ON ALL POC MEMBERS TO BE ALERT FOR

ANY COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES BY CUBAN EXILES AND

TO MAINTAIN THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF SECURITY,

HE SAID

THAT CUBAN EXILES RECENTLY SANK

K A CUSAN_BOAT OFF THE COAST.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

PRIVIDUS

IN 416072

TDFIR

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classl/cation)

OF PERU, HE ALSO SAID THAT CUBAN EXILES SUCH AS NUD I A Z

LAN AND OTHERS HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN THE. ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY.

MONTERO DID NOT ELABORATE:

6. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY AT KINGSTON (AMBASSADOR ONLY).

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS. INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN

NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI

• CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION.OF INFORMATION

CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR, CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING

OFFICER. XGDS-2.

SECR

ET

---

