# 104-10071-10124

## Page 1

{104-10071-10124

SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

7790

157P E5

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(

iSSUES

SLOTTED

CLASSIFIES MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP!

DICOES FROM AUTOMATE

(Wien Filled In)

DECLASSINNCATION

PEFPOSUETON OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

¡ID: I VES I NO

ROUTING AND/OR:NITALS - SEEN E:

2

8

44 5

5

301

CLASSiFE TO FILE NO_

ESSEN EV.

_ PER

3€e)

X-FEE TO FILE NO.

FILERD = RET. 70

BRANCH O

clus

RS:

FiLE

VP.

D00 fee

DESTROY O 516.

Seei 2

SECRET

:02315Z APR 65 CITE BOGOTA 8654

114P856 889891

BTPECTOP

MAPASHA

1. ON IE APRIL GISOY/EIJAY UNIT INTERCEPTED FROM CUBAN MAIL

POUCH AND SAVE STATION INO OF THE FOLLOWING PROPAGANDA EDENS WROCA

WILL POUCH TO HOS ON IS APPILS

2= APPROKIMATELY 183 ENVELOPES ARRIVED 10 APRIL ADDRESSES IG

VARIOUS COMMUNIST RECIPIENTS IN BOGOTA INCLUDING DIEGO MONTANA CUELL

FASS AGENCY, COMMUNISE YOUTH OF COLOMBIA, JUVENTUD MRL, BURGAONES

SURAMERICA, VOZ PROLETARIA, EIG. EACH ENVELOPE CONIALEC:

PRIVIED RECEIPT WHICH RECIPIENTS ARE REQUESIES E: 32N2

AS ACKROULZDODIENT TO MA OSUALDO PAREDES ALVAREZ; SIBIRSKE IAES::

CHI, BUBENEO, PRAGUE S, CZECHOSLOVAKIA.

1B; MINEOGRAPHED NOTE IN SPANISH "ON THE OCCASION GE THE E73

ASSINATION OF DR. MARIEN LUTHER KING WE HAVE PUBLIGNAD # 500.19411

WE ARE RIGHT NOW CIRCULATING IN ALL PARIS OF THE WORLEO WE 4. 9263

YOU A QUANTITY OF THESE POSTERS IN ORDER THAT THEY WAY. BE ESTO TE

COLNIRY IN THE ACTIVIZIES BEINS CARRIED OUT IN THIS CONNECTIONA

NOTE SIGNED BY "SECRETARIO TECHICO-ADMINISTRATIVO: S9C25142:123

EJECUTIVO OSPAAALIA LATER IS SPANISH ABBREVIATICO FOR 6026 29323

Du.p. 0r7554

SECRFT

---

## Page 2

14-00000

₴=.

55UES

SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

GROUPI

(When Filled In!

DEZLASSATICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX: E YES I NO

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

7

10

AT.

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

PER

PID CODY

X-REF TO FiLE NO.M

FILE RO I PET. TO

INFO:

FILE.

VR

BRANCHO

DESTROY I SIG.

PAGE 2

29235-

8554

CRET

ATTA AMERICAN SOLIDARITY ASSOCIATION.-

THIRTEEN 3Y TWENTY-ONE INCH PAPER POSTER WITH LAFGE PICTURE

OF TIGEP"S MOUTH AND LARGE LETTERS READING "BLACK POWER" O

BOTTOM OF POSTER HAS INSIGHTA OF OSPAAAL

AND FOLLOWING NOITO IN SHELISH, FRENCH, SPANISH, AND ARASIC:

*RETALIATION TO CRIME:

REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE'.

INSIEAD OF POSIAGE STAMPS EACH ENVELOPE ADDRESSED BY MACRISE

MR BARRES

"PURI PAYE INDIGATING ALL ENVELOPES WERE SEAT Y SOUERAS

OR POSTAL SYSTEM OF CZECHOSLOVAKIA IO CUBA FOR DISIRIBUEIOR I914EEA

AUERIDAS, RETURN ADDRESS OR EACH ENVELOPE IS RAMON ECHAVARRIAS ARERIES

SE:2A FAVANAS

4. TEAS.UOH AS KONG ASSASSINATED A APRIL, RECEIPT OF THES MATERIA

A: BOSSTA ON 1E APRIL IS SNUSUALLY FAST PROPAGANDA ACTION E0R 20124

MATERIAL ARRIVING IN COLOMBIAS

.3

REIA SUCH

37

---

## Page 3

14-00000

IOVANCE IORY

DEMARAT DISSEMINATION

ISSUED

AT:

OSSEN B!

ARTION

- PER

SLOTTED

-3

iRis copy

CLACITFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP!

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

(When Filled In)

DOWNGRADINGO AND

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX: O YES

I NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO._

X-REF TO FILE NO.--

FILE RID D RET. TO

INFO:

FiLE.

VR.

BRANCH

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS • SEEN BY

2

3

6

8

10

DESTROYD SIG.

cont

(Eyes ang

1/Ä:868 N89691

SECRET 102315Z APR 68 CITE BOGOTA @654

DIRECTOR

MAPASHA

ON 10 APRIL GISOY/GIJAY UNII INTERCEPTED FROM CUBAN MAIL

POUCH AND GAVE STATION TWO OF THE FOLLOWING PROPAGANDA ITEMS WHICH

WILL POUCH TO HOS ON IS APRIL.

2, APPROXIMAIELY 102 ENVELOPES ARRIVED ID APRIL ADDRESSED IO

VARIOUS COMMUNIST RECIPIENIS

IN BOGOTA INCLUDING DIEGO MONTANA CUELLAR

TASS AGENCY, COMMUNIST YOUIM OF COLOMBIA, JUVENTUD MRL: EDICIONES

SURAMERICA,

VOZ PROLETARIA, ETCS. EACH ENVELOPE CONTAINEDS

(A)

PRINDED RECEIPT WHICH RECIPIENTS ARE REQUESTED TO SEND

AS ACKNOULEDGENENT TO MS OSVALDO PAREDES ALVAREZ, SIBIRSKE NAMESTED.

Col, BUBENEC, PRAGUE S, CZECHOSLOVARIAO

(B) MIMEOGRAPHED NOTE IN SPANISH "ON IHE OCCASION OF THE ASS-"

ASSINATION OF DR, MARTIN LUTHER KING WE HAVE PUBLICHES A POSTER WITH

ARE RIGHT NOW CIRCULATING IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLEU WE ARE SENUE

YOU A QUANTITY OF THESE POSTERS IN ORDER THAI THEY MAY BE USEO EN. YOU

COUNTRY IN THE ACTIVIZIES BEING CARRIED OUT IN THIS CCANECZIOS.

VOTE SIGNED BY "SECRETARIO TEONICO-ADMINISTRAIIVO, SEORETARIADO

EJECUTIVO OSPAAAL", LATTER IS SPANISH ABBREVIATION FOR ACROCASIAN

7554

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CaB: E5ÜCRETARIAT DISSEMiNATION

SEASON/UNT NOT FIED

ADIAMGECORY

BY.

ISSEN 3Y

iSSUES

SLOTTED

AT:

_PER

RID COPY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

(When Filled In)

DOWNGRADING AND

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX:

YES

NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE

NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO...

FILE RID CRET. TO

INFO:

FILE.

VR.

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

2

3

4

5

BRANCH O

10

DESTROY 0 SIG.

PAGE Z 29205- 8554 SECRET

LATIN AMERICAN SOLIDARITY ASSOCIAIION.:

(0)

THIRTEEN SY IWENTY-ONE INCH PAPER POSTER WICH LARGE PIGTURE

OF TIGER'S MOUTH AND LARGE LETTERS READING "BLACK POWER".

BOTTOM OF POSTER MAS INSIGNIA OF ASPAAAL

AND FOLLOWING MOTTO IN ENGLISH, FRENCH, SPANISH AND ARASIC:

"RETALIATION TO CRIME: REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE"•

3÷ INSTEAD OF POSIAGE STAUPS BACH ENVELOPE ADDRASSED BY MACHINE

AGE MARKED "PORT PAYE" INDICATING ALL ENVELOPES WERE SINI BY GOVERUMEN:

OR POGIAL SYSTEM OF CZECHOSLOVAKIA TO CUBA FOR DISIRIBUFION IN HOLM

MERICA,

RETURN ADDRESS ON EACH ENVELOPE IS RAMON ECHAVARRIS: APARTAD!

$012. HAVANA,

4. INASHUCH AS KING ASSASSINATED 4 APRIL, REOGIPT OF THRO MATROLAS

AT BOGOTA ON 10 APRIL IS UNUSUALLY FAST PROPAGANDA ACTION FOR 20023021

MATERIAL ARRIVING IN COLOMBIAS

SECR

EIA SÜED

ST

SECRET

---

