# 104-10185-10112

## Page 1

104-10185-10112

5

3

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELUGENCE AGENCY

Tride:

SECRET

NO FORECY DISSOL

COUNTRY cuba

SUSEST eSe Autonio GARCIA LOTS

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00097-04

DATE. DISTR. 27 Jugust 1964

NO. PÁGES 4

REFERENCES

RETURNTO CIA.

Background Use Onty

•Do Not Reproduce

D45. 070034

ANTO.

PLACE &

D. C.

DATERACO LiBUS: 1950

FIELD REPORT. NO.

THIS IS UNGYALDATED PU

SOURCS: GRADINES ARE DESINITIVE: ¡ APPRAISAL OF CO

source a finner Cuban Is officer who served with the Cubas

Ster gunce Service catal Apraj 1954.

Headquartors: Comments:

und lucludes supplementsl

informacion from the records of this Agency.

it is requested that the addressees tase no action on any dr.

the individuals mentioned in the personailty reports withour

first checklng with thls

Agency.

Source

identifled a photograph of jose Antonio GARCIA Lura

aña "Nico." as a Cuban Intellirance Officer of

, the Direccion

Gantiai de

injiigoucia. iGeneral directorate of latelligence

DEli In Mexico.

He is the

Commercial Attache ut the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico City. 1, 2, 57

• д, 5, 6,

7, 3, 9, 10, 11,.12;

13, 14,

HeadquEriors Comments:

1.

A report dated 17 January 1902, trom

three untested sourcos:

-ststed that Antonto Garcia tas

one of severil Cuban G-2

agents now (January 1962) 20 Lesico und planning to go

to the United States.

2:

in a report dated 22 lay 1962;

¡A fuirly reliable sourco" rioo" GANCIA lard is assigaed

stated that Jose Antonio

.t'o the commercial

office of the Cuban Embassy 1a lexico:

city, however,

se does littla work for this

section.

is a

member of the Cuban G-2 and an opporzurist xiat a

very bid reputation.

SECR

• Т

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Pastudad prom

d& LA

STATE

¡ DIA

ACHY

REP CINCIANT

(Noro, Fic!!, distributiun indicared by "$")

NAVY

CINCSO

| 218

I&'S

NSA

TXEX

I FBI

POR:

WE HADR

MILLIA

CI, BLA

ITE CNACLA

1/S3(6:2

LinishiR

Miscarce

LIL BLUE

TETALS

RIDLAN

•Ld- 15-13

O PROJECT ANNIES

_CSCI-310/0J097-02

15r/ Sa 7. (1),

WE I (2),

cI ÷,

RID 1

201-528335

LIAISON a

DEVOLATE PRIVIOUS EDITIONS.

1=2)

3/PV

---

## Page 2

5:

01G

SIS

932

C

G÷2

- CuUa

N1E:

Theated

same starte postureas

"2:"

L11200

0f:

4u19

1902;

Caphie

GARCIA;

wadeo ducarly da

eG-2 asset workans in Mexicot arcaved En

za a closo friend or oscan citiuscos

GARCIA iS a SaUro,

130 pounds, and

manTaid-to

Bara

4, 22

SHed

atico and is

te scioss. to the ruventud

Dar by the pecudonya veco SaNcTA

Specife

tio

003. 10

corin.

with necessars: fauds

chrictans

aid in provide

Is seems probable that this

ind

solely

¿o be

trained is

GARCIA St.rUS 121+10

time

¿n his office

Lisy most of the duy mailig

C34726t5

the strced.

stace he lived. in sextoo for a

yest ind a hali picriously, do inows a good deal about

we country. He alse is lu convact with reavers or the

spswish

and Mexicar

smurist Parties and vith students

oi.lurtist aifiliations:

A lisasily

wichie source with mood concacts in tro Cilan duidsy

101.F0xI00 Caly Gave

lowrg aaro macion où Anionio CARold

tic' rugcit was deteà 13 July 1962:

SiGnO GARCIA Lara, Cormercial Attacke of the Crush:

macissy in doxico Cats. arrived in Mexico on 25 Agra.

1952

adole coming to lessor, Carita hold amportait positions

with the Cuban GOver-227 10 1200!2.

de veriod

Ministiy of Agricultare ard the Ministry of Lublic Works

KENORI: GARCIA iS E'JeMber

ut the Cuban d-2 but did. a0%

ariend the Cubin G-2 seçool. He dad attend the diploitic

SECRET

NO-PORCIGN DISSEX

---

## Page 3

CARC

1252ng

commerci

W'as

astignod do iexico coforo do dis

¿radiatee

duties:

¿chaica

osperts

and cares iraie

Siso

tue mar:pare:

onnection with ile pürchiso

of

n-S:0011790

autoster parts,

cateres

etC

uranown source i

1ne soport dated 25 July 1052 Said

GaRcia Lara, aka

•"'N'¿co" GiREIA.

15 the Cubis conneredal

1A NOTICO: GARCIA HaS 50ra about 1929:

vent

Fase

cons

1s-a Nun liring la the

112

1360

chie other.two .lije. i Mabana.

Garets is warried So

to Maria Clona LARiA Paluja Cina le sey hive ose

and are expoctias anosher.

His brander in-lay.

R 200

gent

niproged

50385

RId Baluja, sestaes st

305 West 93.1.

ier

ber 60521

NOw.YOrK CIY..GARCIA Dis

the.Aimy:G-2.1w11h

wich he is. no losger

stama:

182014171

attllatad,

of

sgrleulzure.and ilc.Jasisiry.or.

31c

has.d 0020.01ts.50:00.

educatros ind

attended

Diplomacta;

bi: cid

art

¡as. te das gransferded

TO MeNICO CUARCIA entored Mexico sa 1557 an estle ssa returned to

Cuba i 1939. He arrived in letico in his present crocetty ou

23 1pr11 1962. Els addross is Sia Borja 1357, Col Del Valle,

.F.

7;o.

no august 1962 report, from a usuaily reliable source:

Sid Ha AncOniO GARCIA Lag recurred lo Kerico Di Eibana or

#-guS: 1952.

GARCIA sold source

ilia he returned in sixica

wail creers

rO.taká. 0v0r the corsoIcIal iCLIvitiNS iras Bamon

CLENCA sionioto.

s.

4 usually rellable source,

1n a regori dired 20 dovestro 1962.

ANTOritO GARCIA LI:3

wire aid cario

vere leaving Nexico for Eidaia sn 20 Norezber 1902 vIs

GARCIA tlanned !O Elay 1n Mabara

roported dalid 27 Javecer 1962 stated ina: GARCIN

-clually left Mexico on 2'3 javenber 1962.

sose Antonio GARCIA Lara,

"according io a usually relladia

in' a

raport

dated

lA Jaruudy 1963, arrived In MeNico Era Haoma

on. 21 dancary 1963.

10. In a copori dated 16 April 1963, Iron a usually reliabia source,

i1 was

stalea chat Jose Anionio CAFCiA Lara, passport sicjer 62-213.

and his wite left. Nexico on: 15 April 1963 for Habara. GIACIA

•S.E

A ET

IO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 4

i tie'

did.

!::.

Lift

•881....0e

sa".

Cabin Silassy

Eat Turnsver

A MaN 00 Gulf:

* 18380

•4l87

renalta

15.2110r00

mister id

Autoitted,

na alas mala

: GARCM

13:

-16:

Librai

1rc Manuda.

revoled tine doss as causth

32/2193

arrividern sextor.cory

usually

" is

that-r 3 38264 230%.

10X7-1822

inte dexico cary for habana.

to returned to

лсё CIl.0 19 M01C 190

лілт.i

262.y.100

usashty reliable:

A/sially 0liatic 524000 107144

Co 31 June 1961H

Gaith

Lata' 1g'undur ransfer orders

so cabana, monto Jely 195x%Tt v2s

reported traL GARCIA ara his 1ately 10f÷

lestee City for labasa

2 Juij: 19G:, aud had 161:

is bait,

lucy and Claushed packagi

Ganera tad an intoliageere

escort up to the time of ta:

ТРіТі

A. usually caliable

thai persors

anguiring

1or. G02216. 10001811

3 Holy 1801:

by CamilO LOMEVACE, of

the Cieve Greassy,

that GOTA

kid

Li,

because di Illness,

1hit

agents 31 sort ted her.

1.::28.110

"isuld

have to lonian.

and that to you

Family: N12n

hiri sandd be since tracury

"or sout tid.

ALVAREZ,

also ot

on.a perssieni transier.

the riban Feinsty, toid source rial Casil!

SECRET

---

