[104-10194-10001] 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JATERTAL ORV UIE AT CH NEADQUARTERS BY

7 COMMUTE a ASSASSIUBATIONS STAFF HEMRERS,

HER VOLUN: [AKA BORIS D., =

INCLUSIVE ,DATES: : if aie
s CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: | cfee> ie . Sige
; : “+ Rao: Se . .

DELETIONS, UF ANY:) |

MAY BL COPED OF RLHOVED ERO THIS ETE



. S-E-C-R-E-T
(When Filled in)
Tek,
U- S790
—-27-April 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Transactions & Records Branch,
Control Division, Office of Personnel

SUBJECT. : Custody of Honor and Merit Award presented to
Mr. Boris D. Tarasoff

Because of security restrictions, the Honor and Merit
Awards Board is acting aa custodian of the subject's Honor

- Award and related papers listed below:

Certificate of Merit
When security restrictions no longer prevail, the Awardee

may obtain hio award by calling the Executive Secretary,

Ellin B. Glenn

: Executive Secretary
' Honor and Merit Awards Board

i Distribution:
Original - Subjects OPF (*k, C2957)
1 - C/WH Suppert Start
1 - HMAB Case File

S-E-C-R-E-T


{ORANDUM FOR:

Reetoriens

Dizeccor

PARCUGH

SIECT

Coriicate of wl

i, The Honor aad Merit
wut tig award named above
ihe excellent service you hav
siceratioas relevant to the av
candum from the Office of Secu:

ard ate expiained i

2. The award will be presested to you a: a ces
sa ihe near ccture. Members of voar family, Age
iatimate irieads who are aware of your Agency
the ceremony.

3. Invitatioas to the cer.
vaor and Mer: 3 Boa
Prease send to the: wifice the Suet.
to have invited, anc indicate any dates o4 whica te.
hace

Aw:

you wau!
Rot be available for su

ROBERT M. GAYNOR
Recorder
oz and Merit Awards Board

Distribution:
Orig - Addressee

c/WH

DB) Pers Reader Chrono/ O23

+> Sectt, HMAB

1+ Recorder, HMAB

rs

ADMINISTRATIVE -

~ ~



- SECRET i

a
yi (8 hes tiled bat

7 [a emtctive oar mtouasteo 3 CattGonY OW tun OvaanT
RETIREMENT (MANDATORY} UNDER CIA mon at Tae
RETIREMENT AND DISABI LITY SYSTEM 11 [se I 70 REGULAR

7 pmaneins Awaits MO [0 WECAI AUIMORIY (Copland by Of a

1135 0990 eka Seen fs8e)

10. LOCATION OF oFniciat stanton

DDP/WH

FOREIGN FIELD

BRANCH 1

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO

Testo ihe i Reson ana Ta AREY Hiv BGT
OPS _UFFICER 0489 | D cep
Ta GASEIEATION Senebind (6B. ouch [19 GUCURATONA Hina [ia GaABE ARO OR iran orate :
—_—
Gs 0136.01 125 $16,084

serie.

CPM A PIES ey

1 - Finance

aE. Se ig eat Bera Tine Sco
hee . “Berthold Iv Me by ee le

C/WH/Pers

SPACE BOW FOR EXC
3 i
| aSieesboos mane
3 aint [cori “acaron ame a won Tio
Sana (OBE Free =m * |[eop bara >| te
SEE p02 © 1 ae
namie ann [won state ant aaa ea we
Cs i Ce
oie | =
@ anor [a Tin tba « atta one
a a a
ad wet
Rta em SERCH (csc DU 3 TEARS), iil i ane

“5 POMTION CONTROL CLETWCATON To OP aomeovad

7 i ,
fev Ww ee Bee Dew o Fiat

Sear SZ use retvous comon (7? SECRET "cae oR ermanan



a SECRET cesteeeea

“ i (then Falted Te)

Mae OF CuPLOTEE (Leel-Fueet-widdle) Mat AND BFUATIONSNE? UF CEPENDENT™ cont NUMER

: Taraagft Boris Self

There is on file in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

70-0502

Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim
File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an illness,

injury, or death incurred on 2 Jan 69-5 Oct 69.

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personne! Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

Tate oF wate Jaonatine oF BES PePATSERTATINE
= on a ed
14 January 1970 i .

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE

FOES LOTG woe reevvees everson. SECRET


SECRET

(hes Filled Tad

Le.

aut AND PELATIONSNIP OF OFCMLENE® uaty HUUBE®

Nant oF CurLovee (Lest Firet-Middte)

There is on file in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and
Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim
File on the above named. employee (or his dependent*) for an illness,

injury, or death incurred on __22.June 1967 __-

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

Date oF woTice

: — aa TAG Dekadice

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE

‘SECRET

ror

FoRSTTOTE ete retveces courts


tesey

“0 bys Halle Ta

SECRET

25 AUGUST 1287

TT Fincina bare auETNS [9 CAECORY OF MLOTMINT

REGULAR

i tdompleted by Offve of

7 mania
CHarcLAne

8135_0990__

DDP/WH
FOREIGN FIELD
BRANCH 1
MEXICO CITY,

MEXICO. STATION

11, egSIHON TUE

OPS OFFICER

2

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO
Te Fosmone Umber Ty Cotte StAViCE DESICNATION
0489
wR | D.
ee

Ta GASSICATION SEHEOUIE (GN. TAL a

GS

ST OecUPAWONAL Sikes |

-
f[ 0136.01

12.3 | s_11685

FROM:

1 - Finance

SANE/0418 POSERSRSRSASENEY,

C/WH/Personnel

emp L. Be 2Obts 1 25 fugul

Curacr

Tad HOnATUAT OF CARER ENCE PROMS

Eh lle

Fae pow FOR ERCLUEIVE USE OF Tt
Ce wee Ce OR
aes ot rd “auras oo oot ~o O Tees. = OM. |
Rie 3 aN
aq Wi sens [meses 1 td
arinca [3 re CT i Pen oe
Boke Pig te Fear Pat [fo one cay
tt =
ie aa to tour Fie eae ca HT
a ot oot Taare ot
fad fl
‘atatods CLAN GOVERN EUNICE wt OT, ioctl Tax FSA toate _
surmct ot fre oor uo tan teres ee CUTE cor Rapa an come

hap wa tnt
carr get as Pa 3 nt)
1 Sc (uot rte AED

{os

FOES T1S2. ust meewious tomon

‘ard AION

Rie ark [Vv bds de



2 AuG 1267

MEMORANDUM FOR; Director of Personnel

beses, Dd

quest for Early Home Leave

THROUGH 3
SUBJECT 3

1. In accordanco with HR 20-30b(3), it is requested

“ that approval be granted for @@RSESSS GEREyETee to be-

gin home leave short of tour.

2, PSSRREE has becn meRgUMNME in Mexico City
since 5 June 1963, He last returned from home leave on
13; January 1966 but because his wife's parents are in
very poor health, the Station has requested on his behalf
that the date of his home “leava be advanced to 23 September

1967,

3, The Station and @RSewy arc aware of the re-
quirements to extend his next tour in Mexico City by the

number of days _ present tour will be reduced.

4 exmepenage. a participant in the CIA Retirement
and Disability Systom, will reach mandatory retirement age
in November 1968. At that time he will bo converted to
contract employee status in order that the Division may

retain his upigue skills, (There is a continuing roquire-
ment for ances services as the Station's Russian and

Spanish translator which could not. be met as effectively
by the utilization of other personnel.)

5. If this request is approved, please coordinate
on the attached cable to Mexico City.



rity rg bes a:

SUBJECT:

Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

Attachment:
Bio Profile

APPROVED: oa

$f bed) 3 ays ?

rector of Personne:



CJ UNCLASSIFIED == (J TERNAL i CONFIDENTIAL secret

ROUTING AND: RECORD SHEET cP -@ co
SUBJECT. (Osnonai) as z
fROM, eer on re cs os
Patricia P.: MacDougall [ont at
# Wi/Personnel 3D5309 6815 | 1 August 1967
oe ee
ee [os me] IBTALS. [to shom. row a line cxront cohuma attr each tommenl)
ca ° 7
= C/WH/Personnel } sa |
2

c/my1 — 3B4403 (hey MH Case okenstes

x ASIG
SB/Pers 584804 (3
[ re Hand 7

C/WH/SS 3D3102

% ofc 85} Ve
c/wup 309107 Z|

Mr, Collins : fee
CSPS/AP G10 is RII Sane EY Weel

ee

, ate - CCG horns A
bole po. Jhrraa ens

aceavd. peas Ake ff teontnl!
“y eas Led hocwe oy
al h Chad. WH
le te (oo /2-
py & ile 10 7
ft ‘aa Reece wosed offrored :
Aivoght me Crlbmy

C/WHD__3D3107 : t

610 “ats C] sect ©] CONFIDENTIAL CJ ike aM OQ UNCLASSIFIED

poche,

_DDP/OP 3C29



FAS IN cb FE RO,

we forse, Mado f/eeS3_< 505.

es

STATS

APPROVES REP A

ED} SY NUMNSER CS.

i
|
|

EXCEPTION

n Conese. SB) bHID
Und fac Tyee _



SECRET

‘sian Tae hid te

REQUEST FOR, PERSONNEL ACTION

wor 2 prrcmne oar aeoutsTIO

rrecamarTey
oe | 09 | 67 REGULAR

7, Piganctal ANALYSIS

GAL AUTHORTY cCompleend by Othe of
NO CHARGEABLE Perwenel)

7135-0990,

This
FOREIGN FIELD
BRANCH I ;
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION

10 IGEATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO

V7. Pos The
—

OPS OFFICER ’

[iz Postion wumoem

[ome ~ D

13, CARTER SERVICE SEESRATON

Ta, CUASSINCATION SCHEOIAE (45. 1B. e009

(i: HeatEag | 0136.0L

——
15 OcCuPATINa SER4s | 18 GRADE AND STEP

17. SALARY OA RATE Gan

weS |_| gaa eS

rer}

FROM: SAHE/0400

l- e

Pragati

Chief, WH Personnel”

78 hem!

lah by

Toate sce Ab Topo oman Soracvinn’ CHER
Aes

f_SELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PLASONNIL

‘Ovrnt CORING 2 shoe [a asi
ree | CO8E cot

eye Worst”
~

LS

1a,_00TE 0 ano

meet ATA 7 Sraaation The couse
I pate ORF

eri cot i
par
ieee L

{
a] feco pata >!
it i

PRG AUTH SCLIN Tab Sua MNT a0,

cam [37 tone cow oan [on _cuete aneoer [9
va pmo en ve [ema teone— feoee Pe wait
row tar i

Te mt COOH

wut [a _
(cot

Coreen cH

tent
xa

Fee ReaeT ceo ST

ont rows entcuTO

| fed
! re

Bae 152 use pervious toxton



SECRET + ;

1D hee ited tat AS)

foe Pavano

12 Deel:

a
Vas
7

NATURE OF FURSONNIE ACTION.
DESIGNATION AS A PARTICIPANT IN THE
CIA RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

1 CANGOR OF ERO TENT

“2 | REGULAR

viow vI0o

crow XxX |aewe

7 Fania anasrart—[® LEGAL AVINORIY (Complomd Dp OD
NO, CHARGEARLE Perwanels seas badd

Tab [__ Ph 88-643 Sect. 203

7 ORANGATONAL OLGNATORS

DDP /it

To VOCATION OF OFFICAL BTANON

MEXICO C{TY, MEXICO.
Ty cae

1 POSTION TLE

12 PORTION NomsLE

Ta Glatmeation Sento (65, 1B. ow) 13 OCCUPATIONAL StmtS

Te GaaDe AND STP ]\? SALARY On PATE

LZ $

Te ois

EMPLOYEE WILL RECEIVE NOTIFICATION FROM THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL OF THIS
DESIGNATION AND RIGHT OF APPEAL TO THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE,

feat bone

Tab SHGNATURE OF CARELR SEBVICL APPROVING OFFICER ia coer)

SPACE BLOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

Ww action P20 union

2 fatow
cot | Coot cont

atten
oot

penverrrs

3 woos [as oat
woot

Wivetwtnt cate Wr. Noe

iF weuiit

Thi voreicion cae :
rr

reooe
2

bare (OOF
|

we oar aha

ean a in

we Ta aie
oe tt

Tarawa fa
ou

tu one « vat a eae

Tstart oot)

1 fan waco

an
re

eas
iw

H
i

Toate arracveo

WF Poston Cont MTC ATIOM

AG

Aeay)
pees toee

USE PFVIOUS EON

i mova
See memo Signed by
D/Pers dated 30NC*



7 SECRET

Tae MOT

019477

Teta

PROMOTION

fees p=
Fe OnGanitatiowan OFSGHATONS

ppp /W
BRANCH 3
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION -

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO

Vy PORTION TLE “TAF amet SUICE OFSGHCATON

ors OFFICER,
Te CUASAICATION SCMEOUTE (GS. EB. €A.>

iy Sauady Ow eat -

Gs L.s_10,250
ror

FROM: GS-11.3/$9, 240.

PO..BE- EFEECLIVE..12. APRIL 1965.

In TGaA Tt OF CaPTTe SERVE MPPEOWING CHPCEE

fe Cer Ung

THE OFFICE OF PASONNEL

Tia HONATURE OF REGUISTING OFFICIAL

ROBERT DeTCABHMAN”

{
i
st

fie lo) HLL Les 4

37 aint Coe comes ncn on
Oi | ToD DATA :

! g adiel ase ee
be Tia wane Ta sora sun
ee

ae

Tors our oan [sat

eee ee CO)
| |e

L i
Soren fe vm
HO Tak ERROR HASw ENITUTES

rae Con se ae aime at [0 a
coat 2

coo Tyan mers ure pose i
58 mae va | |

i

H

Ee ts a a
[ERE
fle fA Ga



Naas OF TRUave (Leal Pie, cuaTy NUMER

—

There is on file in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and
Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim

File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an illness,
injury, or death incurred on Niiieev0 cae Va

eerie ae bean

This notice should be filed in the employee’s Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

Boies

ee

SECRET tas 2te asd



x SECRET

(eden Katied Fey

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

Firetwitstey,

To WATURE OF FERSCAME!

EXCEPTED APPOLNTNENT

'
vtoy a vor 7 goer centers pine | avert (fe
isiaia b- eres ee oer “]3135=s7e0=t0031/ on

HORA ci eC araricn,

DOP. Wi
BRANCH 3 ie
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION MEXICO, MENTE

| 490
Rs ee

0136.01} tL

Ves posit ies acwece Go eaeeea HERWICE OCSHGHATION

Fivany co MATE

L Copy TO FINANCE pIlv. Cink

1 COPY TO SECURITY

ape ; SCT enneee seavice arrwoerne [OaTe 31ND
a FI ‘ LE er fewy bd

Some 12 insane se



_ : (Oe Fated tn)

i 7 SECRET.

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

a (hast-Fieet-middte) es
019477 + “TARASOFF, BORIS D2”

14 vay 1963

uPLovuent

T. watunt of PURSONNEL ACTION

RESIGNATL

+. ru10s >

eerrerrrirrry

>. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE

vro¥ v0 CF

Md p235-1990- 1090

TO. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL #¥ATIOW

7 oncanie

DDP WH
CS/CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT WASHLUGTON, D.C.

Ti, PODITION THTGE Ti. position mumoen [13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

© FOREIGN DOC 9997 D

Tay CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (03, LB, dl TaceuraTvONaL svaues [te Tip SALARY O8 RATE

0132.62 of LL SHE 8575

—GS

FROM: SAME.
1 COPY TO FINANCE DIVISION

SRI Sere tes DSI

x Ake

Geet Dp. casi, C/ull/P!

Low For

asi bat

“ih.

ee, toe, oaTt

ta ate os
Tey tee vevorteas [econ roreuneo
Vee
pew

rou ceaT ie ieartoM

ob ht. is
oe SECRET



EMPLOYEE NOTICE OF RESIGNATION

ft aesvom evecceive fom THE FoLLoeING RLAsoN:
(Dated

GY GAST BORMING DAY wTLL BE = ‘Date siento Srewaune oF Euvovee

Boris Tansy .

ye, Stated

Fonwako COMMUNICATIONS, INCLUDING SALARY EWECKS AND BONDS, TO THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS (NW:

THSTRUCTIONS:

Itees L thru 7
and Items 3 thre 7 and 9 thru 18 requtre Information which pertaina only
Items 9 thru 18a} to the action requested, and NOT to the current status of the em=—
ployee unless specific items remain unchanged.

Item 5 “Category of Employment” should show one of the following entries:

Regular Summer WAE
Part Time Detail Out Consultant

Temporary Detail In Military

Temporary - Part Tine

"Organizational Designations" should show all levels of organization
pertinent to identifying the loention of the position:

Major Conporent (Director, Deputy Director, etc.)
Office, Major Staff, etc,
Division or Staff (subordinate to first line)
Branch: .
Section
Unit

"Position Title” should ret'lect the standard abbreviated title given
in the most current edition of the Posit! 5
ported on Form 261, Staff:

Signature should be that of the official authorized to approve for
the Career Service to.which the employee belongs. If more than one
Career Service is involved, the gaining Career Service should approve|
and the other Career Service should concur fn Iten 15, Remarks.

- Tae original cnly of this forn will be forwarded te the Orfice or Personnel
through the appropriate Career Service offictal(s). In the case of requests
Specified in HB 20-800-1, which require advance approval of cr notification to
ihe Office of Security or the Office of the Controller, one eopy only will be
sent to the Office(s) concerned.

SECRET


WSU ROMETR | E wawe (CASE ATOST mIODEEy

019477 TARASOFF BORIS D

Weaivat OF PeRcomtC ACTION

RESIGNATION

ns
aw es

1 OiAMiTi iowa OCsiGRATIONS

| $238 1900 1
in

1 Potion TE

1 O FOREIGN DOC

i SCAVICE OUSiGMATTON

1a CeamTTTCaTION SONTBULE Ye

luge

ris

18, CePA IORAL GETS

76. chink aio STEP

LN 3

V7 SuiatY 08 ai

SIGNATURE OR OTHER

Form Use Provious
n6r SO Tadition


REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SECRET EY

sn Filled In)

DATE PREPARED

30 OCTOBEK 1762

1. Staal woneee

Qasu7?

. WATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
REASSIGN FST

RFQULAR

T Cecat avtuonity (Completed By
Oftice of Peenonnel)

3236-19°C-1000

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS,

S DEVELOP! ENT COMPLEXENT

10. LOCATtON OF OFFICIAL STATION

70M,

D.C.

Tr. poseTign THTLE

POSITION wuMOCR

ie
+ Oo

cee

Ve

9447

13. CAREER SERVICE DESTONATION
ope”

Va, CLASTIFICATION SEMEDULE (5, Li

GS

fete)

To. Oceuratronal stRteS

O752.62

Ve. GRabE Ano STEP

n e

=
-

Sos

1. SALARY OR RATE

FROY:

DDI/FDD/ISSP BR/MATERIALS & INDUSTRY SECT./WASH. D.C.

SATE Stanto
WH/FERS OSCR

Toe, SIGWATURE OF CARECR SERVICE AFF
erricer

ante Cu: ‘ Shion,

SPACE BELOW FOR ENCUCS:

FTE OFFICE OF PERS

Ee Pee
E00

Se eevee caveconr

rn
Pewter

Fore
reer)

152 225°



REQUEST FOR

_TARASOFF BORIS D.

ays
PERSONNEL ACTION 2 April 1960

CSC Or Gier Legal Rathority

Yes- 1 jC “ 1 Yr] Ye fice 1
28 TL 0 usca 3 a g6|Xore | 2
PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT
14. Organizational Designations Code 15. Location Of Official Station Station Codo-
001 00
FOD
USSR BRANCH
MATERIALS 3 INDUSTRY SECT. i2720__|WASH., 0. C. 75013
17, Position Title 18. Position No. 49. Serv. | 20. Occup. Series
10 FOREIGN DOC 1146 as 0132.48
. 22 Salary Or Rote [23. SD 7
101 5 6 We 126 06 182 160 |
: ACTION
(87. Nature Of Action | Cade [28. £H, Garo 199. Treo Ol Employes {Gode) 30. Senaration Data
ta. 0a.
Be J
Promotion ie Si i@o} Regular é
Qs : PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
31. Orgonizational Designations 1 Cede 139. Location Of Otficicl Station ~ ‘Station Code
DDI/office of Operations
Foreign Documents Division age
USSR Pranch Val
Materials & Industry Section
Dani, Feld 134- Postion filo TIT Okan. Sonor
I0_(Foreign Doc) de 1k _j os 1 0232.48 |
138. Grode & Step |39. Salary Gr Rate | 40. SD Tat. Dato Ol Grade | 42, PI 0 [43. Appropriation Number
| Mo., Da. Yr. | Ma. Da,
n_o1_|*7,030 op Sif iel/7ir71 es {casa 1010-00 an
SOURCE OF RECUES
‘A Requented By (Nome And Tile) Teibot Bielefelat [© Roques sng Aad Ti
Chief, USSR Branch
8. For ‘Additional Information Coll (Name & Tolephone Ext.)
Myron Shpur, Ext. 4676 ce ts_Division sisi
Clearance. Signature Desf —_ Signature pee
{D. Placonent

IC. Clessiheation

proved By ar VEE RTE A Libs

Remarks

fMAa Ss 1152

@

“


&. Nase Cosine Middle)

5 June 1959

” DARASCIF, Boris D.

SC Rete | 9. CSC Or Other Lagat Authority i 5 AR
: Mo.

P14, Orgarisstional Designations
DDI/Cfrice of Operations
Foreign Documents Division.
USSR Branch

Materials & t Industry Section

on, _D.

“Seater Code

» Cs
18. Position No.

LT

Io (Foreign Doc)

19, Serv, [20. Occup Series

Q132,48

$B. Salary Or Rate |23. SD

[21. Grade & Step) (e4, Beta Ol Grade
Yr

a) yl 2

¥
51

1_GS.
25. FS Owe 26. Appropistion Numbor
| 9-4300-20-001

VLVAFA_ resurae

Promotion

log 03._ | $ 6285
ACTION
27. Natura Of Action Code | 28. Elf. Date 29. Type Ot Employee: (Coda) 30. Separaiion Dota
‘Mo. Do Ye

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
37. Organizational Designations: Coda 39. Lecation Of Ottficial Station | Statin Code.
DDI/Office of Operations
Foreign Documents Division
USSR Branch
Materials & Industry Section Washington, D. C»
35. Position No.

Fisld_] 3% Position Tide

Io (Foreign Doc)

1né

pee Seiies
Gs- | 0132.43.

43. Appropeation Numbor

9-4300-20-002

SOURCE OF

Ao foaened By (Nose And THe) Falvot Bielefelat  |~ tena saw ses Rod ey :
ve

chet USSR Branch
For Additional infimation Cell (Nano & Tolophone Ext)
yon Shpur, Bet. 575 Chief, roleia
CLEARANCES. sin
Clearance Sgnature Date ‘Clear ost
A. Coreor Board 7 |D. Placement 4
8. Pos. Control [a7 | Wise 1 2 a
[C. Clossification ff, Approved By ft ep aR
Remarks | / mal
Siansassnosnsnsasbqansssasessesenser
: @

TOGke Ss 1158



sravouno ron S27 [

sation and fill in » separation
| véare oF are

| 2 Rov 1908

THAME (ile = Mies Aira One dover anne,

Teaioat 700,
RM hidtolnth (pecity whether appointment. promotion, separation, e¥6.)

|__ Promotion. — —_
i Peston (Spectty whether on range Grado or Vit, 6)

Toe
Foreign Docs. Officer - K653. ob
GS-0132.48-7, $4660.00 pea.
DDI/Office-of Operations

Foreign Documents: Division

G3-0132.48-9, $5440.00 peas
DDI/Office of Operations
Foreign Documents Division

Foreign Docs. Officer - K653.08

USSR Branch— USER Branch
Wesbington, .D..C-— Washington, D. C.
nh weaponuaress
no [emer iaineie ou ail [7] oem,

‘MMANGS (Ure roreroe if nacoosary)

<1} Signatures ass

is ca 2 ch
1 arene ania oF
| pel
; i

win

tei. [ero
rane [orwerl
t x|_|

|e wrncenTaTiON aoe

ro
M]jylra_7-#302-20

T RURELTOGS

Rehr sireaeus
Gedo oe | Cjeaveo

Yeo | 2 STATE:

‘Via bar 18 LEGAL RESIDENCE

Drroveo

‘BE STANDARD FORN 50 REMARKS

Bi, CLEARANCES,
x
“E. CEIL. OR POS. CONTROL



REQUESTING OFFICE: Fill in items 1 through 12 and A through D except 6B and 7 unless otherwise instructed.

{f applicable, obtain resignation cand fill In separation daia on reverse.
and suenaare) EAE oF nat 1h atoaeat aa ‘C batt or wiowET

Mr. Bor: oft ntey 166d

Treiske oF Feuite eccseareD:
SSraataiet (S204) whet See anpaintment, promotion, separation, 010)

‘v Gritere pare
racrest™

ASAP

ieinsaty

PP. = RTT CT

a fEavice cunt, asd
anne A reaver ene,

pri-epbter at Testi ict
weten Roowients-Fivision
‘ich

PyasnIngee:

i een ccc

A REWARAG (Use reverse @ necessary)

‘aranch
1 neaogeantees Hanhinglon, D.C.

eve ox oteanraema_|_ [| 00

Present incument (v:

Talbot

3 Sranch

Tie ane an

c Spon
CATE OF ATR | REAL RESIOERCE
Gecestows oy | Cameo Ceroven
| stare

7 sumitet 70 © S:
aetinewente Ace
nee

You

"
‘BD STANDARD FORM 50 REWARS
‘Bh: CLEARANCES i ANITUAL OR SIGNATURE REMARKS: * i
x +
"a cen ca ros Conte | SC BY)
“Dus yee
© CASSIFREATION H chy
D PLACEMENT G8 CURL a
;
= i se
FRERNED BF

L



sees eet anes Wie .

ot

"REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

REQUESTING OFFICE: Fill in items 1 through 12 and A through D except 68 ond 7 unless otherwise instructed,
Hf applicable, obtain resignation and fill in separation data on reverse,

VOUCIERED

TRAM (Ae — Mina Nie. One avon na 1 2 meaGeaT eG ‘att oo acouist |
Mr. Boris D. Tarasoff June 56),
it OF ACTION Bt OUEST Cine oat ees OROTHLA
S RIntttotich (Spectty whether appolntiment, promction, separation, ete.) ‘rove: fairer,
Reassignnent and Change of Service Designation ASAP

‘E POUTION (Spesity whether establih, change grade oF Cilla ot8.)

Toa,
Intell. Assictant - BYP - SUL
G3-0301.29-7, (4525.00 per ann

A gommeg emne ano
Hite

‘Office cf Operntians.

DNP/FI State eco
Division D Project PAOINTLY irentTons ign Tocuneats Division !
Cffiee of the Chief 5 H
Branch 2 dection B. ijeieretsietel of

hashington, D. C.
Las 7] perantanran 12 MELO ON oLrARTNaTaL | i

‘A ULAR (Ure roveree W nccossary)

Action has been coordinated with Career Service Rents concerned.

wo copics forvarded to Offices ef Secu

loss Notice sees

Te ITION GLAS ATION
saw | vice | A [RAL From: SD-D
| Yo:

TH TEGAL RASTENCE
Dlaumes 2 proves

W sbitet HES | CATE OF APrOIT
Retacucracr |!" Weir Arrioavrs:
r cctssecn3 ONLY)

cy Sa TORH G0 REMARKS

Ei CLEARANCES,
ry

CEI. OR ROS CONTROL
© GASIFICATION

D PLACEMENT OR EMPL.

©



YOUGHIN

REQUESTING OFFICE: Fill in'items 1 through 12 and A: through D except.6B and 7 unless otherwise Instructed.
W applicable, obt signation and fill in separation data on reverse,
1 MAM (Re, ~ Misa Bon — Coe arven ndma:initialta), and ourname) [a bate on sunt Tatars ea,

is Dinitri

1eViow Roe,

* Siotaal (Senos ovcber appsintment, promotion, separation, ot.)
EXCEPTED AF ay

TH FoLitioa (Speoigy wdecbee eatablish, change drade or tite 10.)

Hove 2, 1903

ree TL
rn é
4 mre. ect ano newer oh525

1 gacenzemonn, 28 Tout)
beceersied Division D Project anes %
Office of the Chief
1 wesogeasrent h 2 Section B

[1 nao (omaece

‘A RINARIS (Use covers # exvonsasy)

J Sigeceet Gunnet Maranee po AG Tent ly
\ flecitr Cowrdlesial El we Bf DV aek DE C5 tee

|  RicetsT APPROTED BF.

ra
% PI/SeD

Siqnaturer

ye arene Rone orton) 20 |,

VELCRAN PREFERE

19, GATE OF AnpoINT
tui arribavis

7 LEGAL RESIOECE
Decues C]rroves
STATE:

Wie PRD
Bi. STANOANO FORM 89 ENARAS

72 CLEARANCES [INTIAL OR SIGNATURE,

/"B. CEIL. OR POS, CONTA |

‘ |

© CLASSIFICATION .

ORT 6



CONFIDENTIAL

secleiy

REPORT OF INTERVIEW /s

Serre

3 Paty ious APPUICATION

inter
a aaM Toast nase tivety in copa?
TARASOFF, Boris Dimitri
To PemwanenT a00atSS :
16315 Bevil iay, San Te: indro, Calif,

8. BUSINESS ADDRESS

Ts. CiFiseNsHP

ows. Cormeen thant countey!
a. ee

-acgutaeo avi [mes ea Seturattzation (0
CT Ssoater J) tiverera $3, OF CFOEND, Ulacluding Wifey

10-97

Ce CLASS STANDING, CaTRATSgRaTEOLET

16+ COUCATION CSCHOOLS, DEGREES, DATES, WAUONS, THESIS TITIRy GAAGE ANTE

ACTIVITHESy. ETC!

Russian University, New York, N.Y, 192him26, General Course,
(em Un SROOICAN Os dec aNTOCONNOAN AIX

17, MAJOR EMPLOTNENT HISTORY (EMPLOYERS POSITIONSS DUTIES] SAURATE NE Ee avINay

1/52 to present: YuCA, Oakland, Calif. Butidine Ens. $305, mo.
12/45-10/51:American “ational Red Cross, Cleveland, Ohio. Building. Maintenance man,

7B BESPONSIBIITIES, RANK HELDT
STIvE MILITARY CH @ETERED STATUS,

The MILITARY EXPERIENCE CORAUCH, SERIAL NOW. STATIONS) TEATRING DOTIEDY
RESCAVE STATUS, CURRENT PROFICIENCY ANS INTESESTI. “InCuuoe aise ce

USkrmy. Tk. 2/LI-11/45. Honorable Discharge. 2024S23s. was Svecial Agt. in Germany
and was used as interpreter tetween US ant Soviet foreea foe short white.

ee .
Oers985 37-147 if CONFIDENTIAL



cn

CONFIDENTIAL

ores

Ger.) Wi IE

Tavcoker Facrndty net Tet eietawty WS we FE

Teiaata

Language

Russian

German

Residence

French r,3,¥,1! Study

aie

garter eecuestes GS-7 .

TECOTIRE STATIN aschiagions

Anyanere in ste

A Crernest

- %e

re

‘Good

NDATION « ri 5 .
TTS eT Sane eVEartcas rea Lanthcienee egney CAREER PLannite, 9Cb-aLt oie

FROFESSTONAL.

Thene's nothing outstanding about Tarasoff - just an averaze joe trying to make
a living and without the anbition, energy, verspicdity to rake use of a saleable
article: knowledge of Zussian, Physically he's sort of ‘scft, tends to be over-
weinht he's about 5'8tall, -and about 190 in weight. #is personality is on
the negative side, his manner dull, : ;

Tarasoff was preatly interested in the possibility of working for the US Govern=
ment, He wants that security, And ke has about reacted the end of the line
salary wise as a maintenance man or tuilding surcrin tt, Tarasoff is wille
ing to work in D.C, but insists on a CS 7 because he “25 to eupport a wife and
tuo children, lie doea not mind the sedentary aspects of Project betail = I
doubt if he'd be interested in anything, t? Fe also likd the
with him that he
would be ouite able to nandle a job on Detail. ¥ = reads vith
a ereat deal of ease. His PHS I notive indicated * only in ofs =
this is not what he told me; he is interes in US alas tat he will yo ofs if
necessary.
I recommend Yarasot'f for a GS 7 on Project Detail,

RECOMENDED FOR

CONFIDENTIAL

Fipaecg ue REN et ATP rR tt Pete « edenthGieNrecg?-carreaneert oe



: aa SECRE ima
Casen Fetes tay

iB tie eo eate oF TA, Ore

x [exer acos_| 29 Seb 2956

he 7 atin er aa Tus aATORALIEOTEEN EOTCE
11523 1965-99 536 Buscizpcst!

Teer wo. oT avats ne

Feb ob 1959 Yar 1963 | FCS _¢/S

a = Okt Geant wrest 10
: ‘

re set Oe)” oe Tas onareaaiowae Foe
Xone Fob 1956
ia. nGeton WAGTINT
J. F, Sulliven, General Gontrac..:, Brot, NY ~ Supervisor of Creve
Military Service, US Ary, CIC, 7/4 ~ Special Agent
i &5e51 Anorican Nai nal Red Criss, Chovelar = Suilding Maintensnee

tanbul 1920-23
~ [1924-28 Russian U S

: 1927 Cooper Art Sct xe x03)
j J 19Wb-S NTC, Gump Ritesie, Md = cle (2 mes) 1945 Univ of Pa - Germen Ling
: iets Cooper School of Art, Cleveland, Chio = Cormercial art

cee 4 ~Oakland Art instite Calif = ddvertising ért_
L 2 it Russian ~ #,W,P,3,U Native; Transl & interpr = Apr 1957
: i Ukranian ~ 2,W,S,U Inter; P Rich - 1957 = Intexpe

H j mete isan R3W;S5U Inter; P High; Interpr - Apr 1957 2
i - = = ; TGontirces or_next pap
1956 Spl! 2
os

1982-3 Spanish

0301.28] 7

0132.48] 7}

0132.48 che

0132.48}

0132.48; 10 - 90 o9/O/SSR B Softatenddntucsec
0132.48] 12

0132.48 | 12 16D Borpye 3/c3 Dev “corp,

0136.¢2: | 12

i
'
,
t

aes Gate eterewto [ive PROIKe AUWiCeED OF a veenrica: wv awovce P| Vy dun 1989

10 Kor 1969 as fhe
PROFILE

oar

Fess 1200 (PART |) eve rarsvens cor



nek

17. Forel Lenjuace abilities - Centirved:: ———~ i
Bulgarien = R,W Inter (Apr 1959) P,S,U Sights 7 Nore - Apr 1989
Slovak ~ R,U Higts P Netives ¥,8,7 None - Apr 2
Polish - 8 (Inter) P,S,U Slight; ~ den 1959
Czech  R Inter (Feb 1960) :
Sorb-Croat(Serd) - R Inter (May 1959)
French | R Inter} #,P,5,U,7 Kors = Disclaixs proficiercy Feb 1967

SECRET PROFILE


SECRET

teem ensied DY

wawe (Laer date)
TARASOFF, Boris Dimitri

Fins weeeneves OF KYALUATIVE RUPORTS FOR

Biograhpic Profile in
TRUE NAME

Tor PROPHLE wEvIERCO OT

OP,
Tera, 1200 (PART 2) gayest “TN SERET 7

veces?

PROFILE


UT
(i Tet ta

Bi .x.PHIC PROFILE (--

hee,

TiS TOENT TTY GF OTHER BOCUMENTS wWHTEW SHOULD OE REVIENCD IN OFTATL

Tao TeOT TIONAL TRFORMATION

a, Date REVIEWED Tre PROF WE REVIEWED OY

* 10 ‘nov 1969
4008 1200. (PART 2) a8

SECRET Beet PROFILE


FEOF ore [HHT Je aBe [IO
2Nev 1998 _M_/GS-12| D

| :
TOPP7OIWER OF ASSKGAENT #. CURRENT STATION

ovina ronres Tiree :
Ops_ Officer DDR: WH/2 [Mexico City
a cuxen Tee oF arceintuenT Tar emt en MN TOE OF RESORT

feancen | [rceave T _ Tyeuronany Cs [ resnonnenr
eancen-PROovinionay (See insinetions ~ Section ©) anmuat [ae tbareuneny EMPLOVEE

‘arecean Greci
Nic oate REPORT DUN IN OLR,

28 February 1969
SECTION 8

igre
all requicements, I is entirely satisfactory end Is choractatized aulthor by daflclency nor

excellence.
Performonce 18 more than sctlsfactory. Desired results ore being produced in a proficient manner,

Performance ix charactorized by exceptional proficiency.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

tlormed during tho rating lettet which b
ry. Consider ONLY ef 2 in performance of thot duty. Al
(alt ability to supervise (indicate mumzer of eplovess supervised).

List up to sia of the most Important specific dutie
Imenner In which employoe performs EACH specific
with sory Fesponsibilities MUST be rated on

SPECIFIC UTY NOT

Translation of Russian language product into English transcript

sreciFIG OUT Y NO. 7 :
Preparation of personality and assessment reports on individual
Soviets based on the above. 2

SPECIFIC DUTY NOS

Translation of Russian letters into English

‘sPEctPic OUTY NO. ©

Transcription of English language conversations

SPEcIFIG OUTY NGS

FORM 45, usk previous KOITIONS SECRET (Hest

on



SECRET

(ahem Filled Tad
HARRATIVE COMMENTS:
sition keeping tn proj

SECTIONS

Indicate shynificent ‘stress oF
i Steve Reset

pective thelr relctionship te

mendations for tealning Comment

iy or explain ratings given in Section B te
dut

‘ e on
sit peancnel aes, Sau a Ged copliestle. Il exivo space Js needed to
ttach © sepercte thee! ef poper, : e Hf weil Eh
This officer continues to consistently pertofht At thee ent
level which.has. characterized his work, in this Station for several
years. -His high level of personal ‘dedication and professional
competence have become standard. at

From bis daily work he has an intimate knowledge of and insight
into the personalities of individual Soviets and the personal inter-
relationships existing between members of the local Soviet colony.

The character analyses which he prepares are excellent and an invaluab

aid to our Soviet program. i

He has had no professional, administrative, or personal problems
during the reporting period. cH \

Wis knowledge of Spanish continues to improve and aids him
considerably in his work.

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
BY EMPLOYEE
T CERTIFY THAT 1 HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, ANO C (OF THIS REPORT

SECTION D
L

28 Jan 60—
2. ER’ IR
Ge-TuN REPGRT TAG NOT OC EN 2HOWN TO ENPLOVEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

WOW RS EMPLOVEE nas SEEN
UNDER MY SUPERVISION

41 months 7
bsrricine TFTE oy SUPEAVIGR FSFE Sa FATTER WUE TNE TERA TORE
Ops Officer paul L. Dillion /s/
BY REVIEWING OF FICIAL

cate

28 Jan 69

2.

COUMENTS OF REVIEWING SPPICIAL
The reviewing officer concurs with the ratings given in Section

B and in the narrative evaluation of this officer's performance

in Section C. He continues to perform his duties in a superior

fashion.

TVFED OR PRINTED NAME ANO SIONATURE

‘s/f

SP RECTTLE OF REVERIE OFFIETRT
Y
Chief of Station [ © Winston “M. Scott

SECRET



oe 7 SECRET ‘

(inen Fitted tn)

PPICIAL POSITION TITLE.

Ops Officer

annua
somcran (Speci
TEPORTING PERIOD (Fram to)

wholly Inadequa
The the a1 90 fr 19,10 Further

jon Faken ef propored tn Section
quirements, IV is entirely satisfactory and 18 cheroctortzed neither by defletency nor

Performance moots all re:
excellence,
Performance 1s moro thon satlsfoctory, Desired results ere boing produced In a proficlent monnor.

Performance 1s characterized by exceptional proficiency.

ice 13 49 axceptional In relation to requiremonts of the work and In comparison to the performance of
ing similar work os to worront special recognition. :
PECIFIC DUTIES

List up to atx of the most important apacific duties performed Juring the rating 1 rating loiter which bast describes the

Jmenner in which rms EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY of ther duty, All employees,
MUST be roted on thelr ability to supervise (indicate number of employene auperviaed).

Giastonding

Tranglation of Russian language telephony product into Lnglish

Sheek :

Preparation of personality and assesonent reports on individeal
Sovicta baxed ca the ateove.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. on

Translation of Russian letters iato Leghish.

fervie DUTY NO. ®

Transcription of Pnylish language conversations.

ating
Cetren

sPecinic DUTY NOLS

fsPecirie OUTY NO. ® 5 5 marina
i) corres

2 yet

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION.

his effectiveness In his curent position such os
formance of spacitic duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativenoss, pertinent personal Waits or hebite, and
petticulor limitations of talents, Bated on your knowledge af employee's overall performance duting the rating period, s
place the fetter In the rating box.corresponding to the statement which most occurctaly rellecta his lovel of perfermencer

Ravina
certer

Take inte account everything about sho employee which tnfluenc

SECRET

rom
on

45 vse paavious eoiions


” SECRET

(then Filled fay
HARRATIVE COMMENTS

4 In evrrent position keeping In proper pertpeetive. thele raletion ship te

fencer Clye reconmmendctiens fot training. Comment
jon 8 to provide
sand cost ct low
apace is needed fo comp

SECTION

guage comps
ining Future

bore
‘sheet of paper.

Mer 24
This officor contintes to perforn his aut (bldn he excellent manner

tkut we. bavo coo te expect during the 4:1/2 yeurd “that. he has served
dn the Station, Bis work 18 an indispensable part of the Statioa's

progran. Pie
Ye has had no profeestonal, adninistrative or personal preblens
during the reporting period.

Eo coatinucs to study Spanish in which he shows satisfactery tuprove=
went.

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
‘GY EMPLOYEE
TEERTIFY THAT 1 HAVE SEEN SECTIONS Ay

AND € OF THIS REPORT.

TYPED OR PRINTED NAWE ANG SIGNATURE

eR FICIAT TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Ops Officer Paul Dillon
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

EGuMENTD OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

The Reviewing Officer concurs Inithe ratings given this officer and
In the narrative evsluation of his performance.

TYPED OR PRINTED NAWE AND SIGNATURE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Winston Scott


Caren

Vel Ef

C-2532 (BLladeou)
5 June 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Transactions and Records Branch
Office of Personnel

ATTENTION:

1. Cover arrangements are in process, and/or, have
been completed for the chove-named subjects.

2. Effective immediately, 1t 1s requested that your
records be properly blocked to deny eubjects’ current
Agency employment to an externel inquirer.

THOMAS K. STRAY
Deputy Chief, 6&5/NC

i atlea

ce: ID/sO

cal rAmeacr
parang nants



SECRET af
BG: s0-woy 2 oo (hes Fed et si

NOTIFICATION OF. PESSONNEL ACTION

None” [' a ra a,
Gs
O1S477 z

OEB.

TATU OF FET: pers Fea GF eniomaNT
RETIREMENT (MANDATORY) UNDER CIA ‘lites
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY 1! 30170 =; REGUL AR

[7 Poe Aroma ne Cargaie ] 6 Oe OF Shree tas GET

viov
F tines asd nsietets
[erov

1 ; Pol. 68-833

x |_ SECT. 255
TETAS
DOP/WH
FOREIGN FIELD
BRANCH 1
MEXICO CITY, MEX

FOSS He

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION

0.
on Rowite 3 RNS
OPS OFFICER 9 [

7 489 a
1 CORERTON TERT ST t TE RORTERATHT PS RTT ic
. cs 0136.01 25 !

Ta ima -

fei
Reduction m emg,

1. Tota tee toten
10 Boionce

%.

a eee!
WITHOUT Pay :

inthis}
tt ——
sie
aa
OU

Sealed tore ty
November toes ee
iraies

Cenercre
FERRED PMSUPRLE MENTS GS RONON
SAND RG



ah ee |

: Tae Ta. eiGanTaTiON [a nino) war non -
7 Fad Peco &
3 si ozo] CF
a

Gib SALANY sate Ez ‘New SALARY BATE ia_Wrre Action
Selory | __tow fW. Dare | Grade | Sie |__Solews I _ trvectivé oate * cos
14 4 |$144727 08/07/68 cs F 3 nsii7] 08/05/70

CERTIFICATION AND AUTHENTICATION.

U CERTIFY THAT THE WORK’ OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS OF ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

signarune [ bare ay FE ~“
Le a ef Lift
TO neoexeess 4 al
[ eay status at ene of wartine renin
(1) ewor status ar Eno OF WAITING PERIOD. v7 ee
“AUDITED BY

=
| (2 560 € -Yspreriovs PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION wily
|

DULES OF PL 910231 ANO
ANCE WITH SALARY SCHE Oe,
enee ee parat wae URSUANT vo AUTHORITY OF och AS RO OE yee?
EXECUTIVE ORDER 1)e20 ENDED, AND A OCE DIRECTIVE OATED 6.

Cha ACT OF 1949s na
EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT! 28 DECEMBER 1
any
SERTAL ORGN, FUNOS GReSTEP |: SALA!

019677 51 620 CF GS 12 4 : gissoll



2 SCHEMULES OF PL 90-216
*8aY ADUUSTMENT IN ACCOMANCE BETH SALARY SCHECULE! , :
BONG eT TO ASTAOREFY oF rep ag BEQVIRED Th THe CLA act OF 1949s
aS a cEwDEC, anC ASUCT MIRECTIVE OATEND 6 OCTOSFN. 1962,

EFFECTIVE DATE oF Pay aNJUSTMENT! 8 CCTOSER (1967

. oul NEw
ORG. FINDS Ga-STeP - SALARY SALARY

SERTAL
o49477 51 620 “CF GS 12 5 $114685 4125225

re)

‘ORGANIZATION [4 FUNDS '3._twor NOUNS,

$1 620 ce
O10 SALARY RATE 3 NOW SALARY BATE [ett action
| Grode [sien | Selory | _evrective eave | si] aon

‘Slory ten Eh bow

38126225) 04709767 L, 12) 4 12.607] 04/07/68
[CERTICATION AND AUTHENTICATION

| CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ASOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE 18 OF ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE,

(J tray staves at evo oF wamTIne Peeion

AWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD.

"Pia S60 E Ms raion

2

PAY AOJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTIONS 212 AND 210 OF PL 90=206 AND

EXECUTIVE ORDER 11613 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF OCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT

GF 1969, AS AMENDED, AND A=CCE DIRECTIVE DATED @ CCTOSER 1962"
EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENTS 14 JULY 1968

NEw

aLo
SERIAL ORGN, FUNDS GaeSTEP SALARY = SALARY
OL9S77 51 620 CF GS 12% $122507 $134392



ee bein 6 38

(Whee Filed ta) 7 i

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION =
a .
. OUsN77
7 maT oF FEAL
REASSIGNMENT
i go cove | 30 USC HO J
ERANCH 1 i
HEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATICN
11 oniiow TvE Ti Fence aeRO
OFS OFFICER D)
TET aT AEDT, TH eT pecan Tan oT
a
6S. _}0136.01 11685
a
WaT taser | BOTT INE [an oF Gait He wa OFT
cove | tate pera rar) [as ee a
37_1io_ {31620 | w: 7 {Vast Joseee Suesieyeneee |
ESCA i er
zea : | {
TTC tae ae ae [Te a [ea aT Ta Han ete
cry wee ae = —feear T 1 He
ST eeallsed| i i !
Pre cia Gna STE tie Tat Tar ait
woe To Tees m ans | ven EveCTTD rece] Ce E
I it |
(ES AVTACTICATION
T Boece

fone
fort usa



oe
cs)
7 Gaiteaer OF Ta ornERT
REGULAR
=p Sraae Tyna 4 Tay nh BST GE oF Ginee teat neTHORTY
roxns
oy x [ame i7135 agg coro] S50 usc un3
+ OaENCaTIONNL BTORTONT (aioe oF Onna HaTON
DOPAM
POR IGN FIELO
BRANCH | a t
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION MEXICO CITY, MEXICO
Te posites TUE ie ras 1 SERVICE DESIGNATION
OPS OFFICER lous )
To TLSGTG FOMEOUE TRU) 715. cetoraionat sem | To SUE ND TP TAU Oe AE
GS 0136.01 123 11685
Ve Rema EEE Pee ~ SEHEEE EEE EEE im a
TH ACTION &2 Fayioy Th Station Bh waiter ‘SS OAIE OF akin [24 OaTe oF Ouse TP BATE OF LET
bales mal coat [ee oar
arto | sys2q} wu USO75I 13. HL} 02) 08 ilsseealf {Fassia l3ues
ENT CT EC Re ani he ie
S| nett gee OOO Ae pa Too bare | ee ae
a | Sete |
x cURL ST TUT
Tre] o: wange T minliw ne coe] we
has H -
ji i |
42. LEAVE Ga Feneean 7 cy ‘SUaTE Tar gata SEE

|
testa jecadi |
i !

Form

form asa

Use Previous
Editon



wil!

099477

NO ENCESS LWOP

IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING FLRIGD
LWOP STATUS AT END OF #AITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS AUDITED BY

PLOYEE IS

1 CERTIFY THAT. THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EM

OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE. ce
Daur fh

; a
} SIGNATURE: LEE lp. foe to pate 42
LOL CHANGE NOTIFICATION

oy

SECRET
a were Fed i) @ ~

Tar Gane wh he

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Fiearcigh Areivot Me Chargeable i (SCOR OTNTE CHCA AUTAORTY

» eoce foe

caty, a
Trion HT Tb raion annie os

Te Cadsiviearion SontOuE LL wey We occuraTion SemEs

Te niaaaes

TT SricEBEW
a rn a Staion iene ok wet wwii ate
ome | te = =] winner] ate | (oct > =<
Wat umi ——a nan_ Teer a)
1 Nt ura cone

Te socrat SEConITT wo,

‘start tat bate



SLSTHEST TN AcCAWHatCE ATTA SaLcee SEPLLES Wht Age5 oe

THORTTY ob cp ag Perey! 1 footw acer ys

“ 1949,
Tsay ant aehol OUSECTEVE HATED © uct nbes 3900," at
TIVE PATE UF PAY BUJUSTMENTE 9 LY fume
aLp _ NEw é
SeRlaL 02GS, Funds Gwesten canbe SacaRy

OL9477 51 B20 SF GS 12 2 Sir, 9U7 ¥19,306 A

,
| é a9-392
: nytes OF PL 89 Ai
AT ty ACCORDANCE Nats Saray Sta ach oF 1945»
renin Tee s1aec CTUSER .
ee feuaet Tec auragn Tt arte BLOECTIVE ATED 4 0G :
ae TOBER 1905
: Ive DATE OF PAY aDJUSTMENTE 10 OC
. —_ Ee oD NEW G3
SALARY SALARY
SERIAL ORGY, FUNIS GReSTEP  -SALAR Pa
7 ts 9259 S19» :
wae etl 477 31 62n CF GS 121 $4025
019
oo
ws
)

SAY SAUARY AATE

‘Solr tou fh Dow sa fet Sor

2. TPE ACTION
Ls | aon

Seo i

7 .
‘4 NO EXCESS LWoP |
IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD
‘ — # UWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD i ae
CLERKS INITIALS AUDITED BY
CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE asove NAMED EMPLOYEE 8 7) uu
OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE: anes

ey eee

SIGNATURE, //.



« SECIIT 2 os

REGULAR
+ rowos
[ewr [Xk Lewe 5135 agse cee | 50 USC 4O3 Vv

V6, Location OF GFFICiML STATION

ODP /WH.

AN cH 3

X1cO STATION eXICO CITY, MEXICO

WF Ponton moa [id SERVICE BEsleMaTiON
OFS CFFICER OYOr dD
Ta CUASSTCATION SOMEDULE (68, UH, wc) ii, OCCUPATTONAL SERIES | Ya GRAGE AN STEP [i SataRT OF RATE

1e2sc

cs 10136.01, 12

Th tons

“SPACE

T9 ACONT TO, Govier, 2 OHFICE CODING
cont | ate rea ee ee eT

22} 10 |s Sri c2,08 | buy Tye

RTE FT [aaa aT] TON | CORREA |
on Te] MHREME Tic care ata COO Tre cy
i ice EOD DATA

M4 weg, | Hh Bait of bitin {24 GATE OF GUAOE | #7, BATE GF UE)

aC PueTECWE | WAR Woah aida Weed ah OTE] aT aC ra aT wot eeaTTT
Cana ie Too ee [EE Sore |
(neal 1 fate | i i ! |
aint coven Rn BENE Tae Gi. comart te Tit a oa
coe ja atevice _ |Fonw eaecates CODE Pe [eo Tax [svarecooe]

i
STHEA AUTH

SIGNATURE OR

Fomu Use Previous
tar NS Edition


ADJUSTMENT OF SALARY RATE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
SCHEDULES OF THE GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES SALARY REFORM
ACT OF 1964 PURSUANT. TO THE AUTHORITY OF THE DIRECTOR
OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AS PROVIDED IN THE CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND POLICY
DIRECTIVE ISSUED BY THE ACTING DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962.

SALARY CONVERTED TO RATE SHOWN FOR INDIVIDUAL’S GRADE
AND STEP AS INDICATED IN CHART: BELOW,

GENERAL SCHEDULE RATES
Federal Employees Salary Act of 1964

eine 1 Per Annum Rates and Steps
Tat 2 [3 | 4/5 |. 6 | 7) 8 | 9 {| 10
GS- 1/$3,385/$3,: 500 83.613 $3,730 $3,845 1$3,960|$4,075|$4,190/$4,305/$4,420
GS- 2] 3,680) 3,805] 3,9 055] 4,180] 4,305} 4,430] 4,555} 4,680) 4,805
GS-— 3} 4,005) 4,140 Pear
GS- 4} 4,480] 4,630] 4,780
GS- 5] 5,000] 5.165} 5,330
GS- 6} 5,505} 5,690] 5,875,
GS- 7 6,050] 6,250} 6,450
GS- 8] 6,630] 6,850; 7,070,
GS- 9] 7,220) 7,465} 7,710
GS-10[ 7,900, 8,170 omg 520) 730 10; "060 10, 330
GS-11] 8,650) 8.945. 9,535) ry “330 10! 733 10) 420 10,715 11,010 ll $305
GS-12) 10,250) 10,605, 10, 360 11,315}11,670)12,025/12,380}12,735/13,090}13, 1445
GS-13]12,075}12,495/12,915, 13: 335|13,755/14,175]14,595] 15,015} 15,435 15,855
GS-14/14,170!14,660/15,150/15,640/16,130/16,620/17,110/17,600/18, ;090118,580
GS-15]16,.460|17,030)17, "600|18,170]18,740]19;; '310]19,880/20,450) 21, 1020) 21,590
GS-16]18,935|19,590]20,245|20,900) 21/555 22,210, 22/865 23, 1520 24.t 175)
GS-17/21,445, 22,195 122,945) 23,695/24,445) .. 22.) 0... f eee
GS-18]24,500] .....[....-]....-P.--.-|



4 700|

O Satay Ratt G Trew Sayany eat 7 Te ACTON ‘
Sauce] So [tow tt bom | orca Pen [tory | etme ome Le [er
“ i r
Gs 1d 3 |s 8,973) 20/28762 GS 11) 4S 8,640) s9727tes, il Pe
t
T Remarks ond Atheoncation \ H
i &

4 #40 EXCESS LKOP
4 7 IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

Ae.

‘ 7 LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD : i
CLERKS INTTUALS AUDITED BY th

Lf %

: : a :
1 CERTIFY. THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE naked ExPLOYEE 1S
OF AN ACCGPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

: AY i 3
SIGNATURE? prt of _ pate: Jt “7

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

ia ais enon
560 OR inn en :

“9

~ wy

IN accoROanc,
: EW 7
SExO¢aNDUM Daten Liaualer seg¥TSEOUS OF PUBLIC L
an 820

EFFEC 19
TIVE $ January igea, C4 SALARY 18 apsusten as roLLane, Cf

FOLLOWS, a
SERIAL DKON FUNDS GReST sata SAL
ft Guo iE
Y Salary

619477 $1 705 oF

GS 114 § a,aay

$ 99280

ia



. . 7 SECRET
:: “(Whea Filled tn) masts
aoe
branancar ise REST TT TTT
EXCEPTED APPOINTMENT (CAREER) 106105 1 63! REGULAR : :
Paciaay Tove FG ATE WO HARTEANTE | 0G 0 TNE EAL HATO :
«crm > Lt : ———+
i ofere ixiees 3135 5700 1000] 50 USC 403 _¥
Tae VETO ; ia atin OF oT STON
ODP WH
BRANCH 3 .
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO Ea GH
IMEXICO CITY, MEXICO
~ iniee HN Te Postion muwaee Va. SERVICE DESTERATION
OPS OFFICER res) t)
Hicananane satiate oh wi 77 antiga ors Pe BE TF Tia OF -
: 1.0138,.01 113 | 8575
awaits arene aces ico a
ton fe i)
a cE LW TR cL ie OFFICE Or peAsoHVEE
Taga pe wea ora wa TT
13 ‘10. e¥700' WH | 5075-43 Ti} 021.08! 05 Oli 60:10 128 | 62
TR NTE CAPES. sree GT DATA 190. SEPARATION | 22. CORRECTTON/CANCELCATION ‘paral jae. secumity 194. set
a re Fe ae (==. co
i (istastt | Feaoaa | MI
Eni [amen To SC SCT
BT Saar pa BA |
7 trary oe bata
oe |
; [ wy
: a si '
at
om nee Ven Previous SECRET ge - inant ne : |



\ SECRET:
«= (When Filed 19),

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Tar woes ae ATT ATOTT

019477 ___ | TARASOFF_BORIS 0

Sr anert oF Fat aT Tai apa oF RITA
RESIGNATION ___ (CORRECTION) 104 163 REGULAR

[xX [vee [vee TCOst Genie wo, CHAAGEATE [0 GEG CTMER LEGAL MINOR ——
«ramos >

aur [awe 4235 19901

To. LocaTioN OF OFFICIAL STATION

7 ORGANITATIONAL GESIGRATIONS

ODP WH
CS/CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT WASH., 0, C.
Te PORTION TIE WF PORTION wURiER Ta SeavicE BESTENATION
1 0 FOREIGN DOC 9997 00
Te AGsTTCATIOW SEREDOLE (5. 18, we 1S OCCUPATIONAL SERIES | 16 GARDE AND STE 7 sata oe TE
= cs 0132.62 Wh 3 8575

Te wean ae oe eon
THIS ACTION CORRECTS FORM 1150 EFFECTIVE DATE 6/04/63 AS FOLLOWS:

ITEM # 13 SERVICE DESIGNATION WHICH READ, D TO READ, OD,

7 TPG BLOW SH BRLNSIVE USE OF THES i PERSONNEL
Hie teas [Bove RE “Siac [1 wHCGREE | Ha | BOATE Th bea wa aE oT ore
om (ote howe Tirweerie ieee 0E (ote roo ee or
45 (18 |: | 11102; O81 | ot bo
bap nic apcs FST ine nin [31 seranaion cont rencEUATONwaTA atom Hae
= ah REFEREE Tat ara CO se aT om i
: f EOD DATA
t i 1800091 Lot
Ti wer Fae RGE YH, EHV. CORP noah aE [nae canecony [9h FELL HEAT SURI 7a. Soca SUNT w
4 ee | [ioe
a. ‘PRevious CovERAMCwT SERVICE DATA PeoemAL TAX OAT « ‘Save Tax OTA
coor i AECUTED, C29 . at eTIONS yesre |

‘SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

vor Use Provisus wae
veer 180 Esitios a
: (Wren Filed ta)


MHC: 5S JUNE 63

TStarat MME

a1gu77

SECRET
eB (Whoa Filled tn) fa

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

TAL RSTST ATONE |

TARASOFF BORIS 0

TE aaTUEE OF PeatoNTT ACTION

RESIGNATION

CUTE Gea waa
06 | OF 63 REGUILAR

Lvov

as

we

vo

ewe 3235 1999 104

7. CO CENTER WL HARGEANLE [0 GC OF OTMLE LEGAL ROTORITY

‘F ORGANTATIONAL DESTEAATIONS

ooP

WH
CS/CS_ DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT

Wo. LOCATION OF oFFiCiAt STATION

WASH., D. C,

iz. PosiTion noweee

1 PORTH Te
10 FOREIGN DOC 2 D
TA CUASSIFVCATION SCHEDULE (C5, UB, ote) 1S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES. V6. GRADE AND STEP ) 7. SALARY OF BATE
Gs 0132.62 ju 3 8575
rani —— —~ _ eee
oe oT SRACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
i Ain Fain iE oI 7 aiiON Hh. IMGGREE | H,Wegn | OAC CF AiR [BATE OF GOB [OME TE
best text beet ook (ote sy ve) wo be, ” T were Ty
45 [1g ! 11,0208 | 4) 1 i
Bone twa — Ta om Tania Bata mt [HL THR TACTATON | aan TC Ae
REFERENCE | OATA COOE yw
eee ote ae mre settee 7-cect feonipava (
iit) 1BD0Q91 toa i i
ER A A Ke
LL fame _feoe i |

Taran a Toten Ta one im

‘ste

Tae para

eect

‘SISNATURE OR OTHER At

Forw Use Provious
trez M80 Edition

ir 5

ny



ABM: 26 NOV 62 eee =

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Te icuiat Bonnet pF waa WAST HTAGT BIDDLE)

019477 TARASOFF BORIS 0
T wATUHE OF PLASCRNEL ACTION TIVE BATE] ¥ CATERUEN OF ERPLOTUENT
a

REASSIGNMENT 11) 2662 | REGULAR

ax Sea oT Se TTT
ss
eetese, Ltt 3235 1930 1009 SO USC _4O3 J
Y

Ta Location oe onviial STATION

ODP WH
CS/CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT WASH,, 0. C.
Tr reoioa TE TE TOY WORT Tr Gate Hae RET
1 0 FOREIGN DOC 9997 com
TBTTiOn HIDE TH) a ar TEN fe SEP TMT oe
cs lo1se.62 U3 8575

Tana

SPACE BELOW TOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE CF PERSONNEL
Wh batt OF wat [ie CATE OF ae BATE OFA

TATA ton [ Taner, Bett
oor | ee ba e008 bE a oe a aS
37_|1a_[eugs7| we [75013 1 | aregyos} 7 1 fot
[cri eamats 7 aetna Het ants EAN CHET are Wiaw Ree
ve one. aLHERENCE Ty Toor aT OE re rT [com bata») Lida i
| | | eet sss ! nee
Tare CRRA TCT GGT TT TR RT
{ Is ne | I
na Ta Te Te | NTT Tarra
(Oe in TED) CODE wo Tae OE MPTTONS worry

|

SIGNATUPE OR OTRER FUTHENTICATION



@ 2

SHCNS SF FUILIC LA® 97 2 793 ZAND
St poes , SALAzY 1S ADJUSTEC AS FOLLOWS,

ASIST
sas

loray) Lrmes Yi New
SETpLL RGN FUNDS 972ST SALARY greST SALARY
yaraScer 22218 0 319477 86109 voi2 $ 7azQ 14.2 3 AMIS
aoe ' i : :
we Hl ‘my 7 Sf3- flO
im to 2 Sen Conte, Member i or mem) rc)
~
or2e/, a .
7 77 NO EXCESS LACP =
GAN Pay STATUS aT EN, OF WLITING PERIO '
7 SOP STATES AT END VF Wa TINS PER |OL
ci CLERKS pNETPALS Sky AUSITEO 3Y =
My cewTyey THeT THe 80K OF TRE 420VE NAMED EMPLOYEE 1S i
GF EN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL, UF COMPETENCEs
SIONATURED es YP Ch Loe pare wf2qle2
O eas = (4 ys
: 0 e ra
ara aii |
BAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION
Fer 580 ee . em Z
wares


peasens A

Tae

Coe nosis >

"GED SALARY BATE nS
Se say |e Ba_| Ste

‘ renee warn uw

nq eyerss EOP

é pw PAY STATUS AT FAN OF ar Pang peidion

porn une sTaTus AT CED ar WATTS PERTOD
eats 1s

P.

Theis Previous
98

NS $60

2

IN ACCOSPANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF Pe Le 86-568 AND OCI MEMO DATED

1 AUGUST 19569 SALARY 1S ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS EFFECTIVE 10 JULY 19600

sn NAME SERIAL ORGN GR-ST OLO SALARY NEW SALARY
Of TARASOFF RORIS 1 119477 27:20 GS-11 1 $ 71030 $ 79560
‘sf EMMETT De ECHOLS

DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL

-~"



a SECRET a

(ihe Filled ba)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

BWS: 2) APR 1960
HS Soriat No. [8 Name (Lowi Middle)

N9877 TARASOFF BORIS D
a a ool CSCOF Okan Toa RGB TO Be ian HFT Ta
Mo.

| Ye. ie
Sisib 50 USCA 403 4 | eae
PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT
Code

Sistion Code,

75. Location Of Offa Sxau0n

(14. Organizational Derignations:
‘001 00

FOO

USSR BRANCH

MATERIALS & INDUSTRY SECT, 2720 |WASH., D. C. 753013

iS Dape Fall 17. Fanon Tle TE. Vouuza Ra. [19. Son] 80. Occap, Soros
Dept Code

usta 4 [3° [10 FOREIGN DOC 1146 ics 0132.48

Fegn 6.

21. Grade & Stop cs ‘Salary Or Rate |23. SO ‘22. Appropriation Numbor
101 $6505 oo 9 4300 20 001

[Cede] 30, Separation Dara

27. Nature Of Action’

oso 29. Typo Ol Employes
Yn
PROMOTION 30 [05 101 )60 | REGULAR
PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
Code] 32. Lecation Of Olfiist craton

00
USSR BRANCH 7
MATERIALS & INOUSTRY SECTION 2720 |WASH., D. Ce
EM Field T34. Position Ville 35. Postion to, Jat. Oxeup. Series
fer
ysis en 10 (FOREIGN DOC) 1186 = 0132.48
138. Grado @ Step ]39. Salary Or Rate 140. SO Tat Bate OF Grade [42. PSI Due, [43. Appcpriation Number
x Ye | Mo. Da. ve
ni $7030 00 los 01 160 io 129 )61 locks 1010 CCOO
fs, Rasarts
{ por:
t
\
4)

FoR FO 4450



it = anon patie hd

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION @
MoM 12 JUNE 59
Serial Nav ]8. Nawe (Low-Fir-Middle) (Bato OF Ue
1 ioe | =~
1 TARASOFF BORIS D 1
ust — Bee = ea os or 56 Rent, Abd.
. 7 1Code} 7M. | Da. | Yr. ey
a Nose | 4 usca’ 403 4 { | |
PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT os
Ta, Organizational Detignations Code | 75. “Tocation OF Official Station “Station Code
DO! OFFICE OF OPERATIONS
FOD
USSR Bf
USS ALS E INDUSTRY sect. [WASH., De Ge
 Dagt,- Field 117. Postion Ta. Portion No. ele Gezap. Sonos oa
iis ‘I 10 FOREIGN 00C Ly] 0132.48
RL. Grade @ Step j8 Salary Or Rota 193. 0 (ea Dass Br ova_1 85: Appropriation __ a
Mo. ¥ ¥]
is 6285 | \" cH 9 4300 20 001
a

Code [S3. tH. _¥9. Type ‘Of Employee Code; 30. Sepaiation Dara
Ms. De Yr.
yo |06 18 159 | REGULAR o1
PRESENT ASSIGNMENT ity
Coe i? Location Of Olticial Station Statien Coda
o
USSR_BRAN
eal 1 inoustRY SECT. 2120 | WASH., 0. C. 75013 aan
: aha] Povo Mo So Foniae Ne Ya. Sara] 37- Oven: Sones
| 10 FOREIGN DOC | 1146 cs |. 01z2¥8 |
Step 159, Salary Ov Rate [40. 5D ai, Dote C# Grado | 42, PSI F5- Rapropriation Blurber
| Nn be yr [a0 ;
IS 6 ) 06: Oy 99 (06 1 18, 00 6 | 9 4300 20 001 a
aa

qPaansr 1150

aE Ep IY SF soos


a

we

. fa SECRET

OoEN PRL DO
rr [ PEC

= meat Tee bus coer

TARASOFF AOwIS.0 | BRIZFOD -2 X} V-20

OLD SALARY RATE z NEW SALARY RATE
UAGT EFFECTIVE DATE

1 ter, seannt ao.

119877

Torcetive bate

ennoe oe sauay

ser SALARY rear 7

Sy

nang

3 60135105 3 |S 65285

TO BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER
DD ation caer fp. RuRoCa oF nouns URoP

2

Ta, AUTHENTICATION

65, si Os Js eg

prude, i, STEMI T

PERIODIC STEP INCREASE - AUTHENTICATION
SECRET PERSONNEL FOLDER,

, :
fy wd
c)
LJ
=
. Y
IN LIEU OF FORM Lisv THIS NOTIFICATION EFFECTS RESLOTTING RESULTING
J
FROM R~-20-250
wd
SER ® NAME sD OLO SLOT KE SLOT OATE
ww
119477 TARASOFF BORIS 0 vd C6534 147 U2s 24/99 ~~)
w



j4-0o000
i

Paieey oe

STORE

me Tessas CRN. SD)

1194877

TARASOFF RORIS 0 | ootvFoo

NEW SALANY RATE,

aoe ae | susar ess

Gs 9] 2 |s 50575 | 05 tik 58

CERTIFICATION

1 CERTIFY THAT THE SERVICE AND: CO}

WNOUCT OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE ARE SATISFACTORY.

THPES, GR PRINTER, WANE OF SUPERVISOR

Tee SERIAL RO

Tisrento oncaeid FU RES,

7S) ALOTMERT

119877

DOIZFDO v-29)
RATE

‘EFFECTIVE DATE

SLD SALARY RATE
ast

SALARY =

05

18

TO BE COMPLET

6s a|
ZS BY THE OFFICE OF COMPTROLLER

9 CHECK ONE acess

ve excess Leare cx rowce:ne
Oa ar were PERIOD

Cy ve cece serena ana of TENE

py NMBER OF HOURS LHOP

Tar aac OF LEE a" aaarreD BY

rm

PRSECTED SALARY RATE AND EFFECTIVE OM}

a

= + satan

Ta RaTRENTICATION



7 & eT

68
- SECRET

e

cel GPMFPAL SCUFDILE SALARY INCREASE RETROACTIVELY FFFECTIVE

12 JAN yADY 1952 AUTHORIZED RY OP. Le BS - 462 AND DCT
ey DIRECTIVE. SALZ9¥ AS OF 15 JUNE 1958 ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS.
NAME SES TAL GRADE-STEP OLD SALARY NEW SALARY
TARASOFF BORIS O 119477 GS~09-2 $ 59575 $ 69135
GORCO! STEWART

7S/ DIRECTOR OF PERSCHIEL



STANDARD FORM 5D cB PART ( J i¢
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ”

aunt weeny

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION “are

TMADE pen coaerese cove Wnee RewE, ITA an, AND WWHRARED Bard ov Dra

MR, BORIB D, TABASOFF. -_____11947

Thies fo w0tily gow et fae fe

otowing action affecting your ecuNevmee!:
Fa eee RT active atk [7 ek BEE OH THER LEEAL AUTHORITY
PRESTO : 30 19 Bay 1957 50 USCA 403 J
- : 78 SEE

3 position TUE

Foreign Docuzsnts off. K-653.04
G8-~0232.48-9 $5540.00 por annum

vor/oo
Pareign Docusente Division
USSR Branch

Yo oxcuzaner aL
\ brsigearions

Waekingtom, De Ce
free [ae ceereea

FT perarroerran

Set] Teer

eD-

1 teeny APSTOENRE
(cameo (2) Proves

stare:

POSTED
“ht MAY 1955,

2, 8 we goo,
0 Bee SY SP So B oe So 8?
S$. Mo 3 Maes Rasa OF OTeE eaves

2 SSSR MSH ST orate AUTHENTICATION

Sow “2%!

“4, PERSONNEL FOLDER COPY 1B v8. covemmaenT rane OF
Bd -ga3/7

\I


“DOI /FOD - ay ! v-20/
“NEW SALARY RATE

56 |

* Hirrep. on PRINTED, NAME OF SUFERVIEOR

Tathot_Piclefeldt

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION are

“F JOURNAL o& ACTION 66

Towaiee Gan cnrnaenad Soet eee SRE FNITINNGED, ANG AVAMAMED

AR. BOS D. TRASH LgATT

7 the fotewring ection effecting your employment: ~
erereerty | EEPFECTIVE GATE | 7. CIVIn SERVICE OR OTGER LEEAL AVEWGRITY

This fs to motile ye
3, NATURE OF ACTION «

~ REASEICHNREE 56 1 Oct 1956 50 CA 4Oz J
ro te
area
E-TT1.99 Foreign Docmonts Off. F653 08-7

(B-0132-49-7 $4525.00 per annum | » sywier sears CB0132.b8-7 $4525.00 pex annua

10 patirsatioNs por/orfice of Operations
Foreign Documents Division

egeoio “ =| ‘WER Branch
1. wespevanices
2

Anne on eT

W spaster va &
seca ke”

slo _Xea__



we

ony
2 GTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN,

7 wi
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

7 are oF vinta TS AUESAL Om ACTION BO.) & DATE

sravoaso

Peltor

i actlon affecting your employment
7 Fr civid SERVICR OM OTMEN LEGAL AUTHORITY

errant oa
oh)9 Sep 1996 50 UECA 803 J
Te

& pontine Foreign Docs. Off. K-777-99
G8~0138.28-7 $4525.00 yer aman
por/oo

¥DD

USER Brench

avice, $US
9» Banecataar

19, onGaMIZAriON AL

20

11, HEADQUARTERS

2 Washington, Be C.
22, neu on oCere come Sera hccslaed

LS, VETERAN'S PREFERENCE “34. POSITION CLASSIFICATION ACTION fy i

sone] wns owes] ser] toro | | Pros: 0/D
2 7 fo : sp/@

ra ag ees porrg

tow: 1-29-83 uaraco [} Pave

alalw ety 750-13

yo. RCWAAKS:

cuTeance PERFORMANCE RATING:

4, PERSONNEL FOLDER COPY

713 7/ [se

pe 8 aovemmmenr oaturine orrices re0ea7eee7 =>”


atavoaay romw sé c@ pan)

> ORAL INTELLIGENCE AGENL |

oe UA Dee, 1955
NOTIFICATION oF PERSONNEL ACTION ¢.-17% tat

© DATE OF biate

URANE Gee certecwen cove Ginte Rewg, swan and Bananwey

ER, SD, TiR.ePy 2 Mow. 19.8

Thich to notily vou of the Jollesting orticn affecting pow employment
3 ATURE OF ACTION cone cacet

eegeeTUD

‘& Position ILE
Intel, Asst,

BYP-SI4L

2 seavce,seaien, GS IU626-7 848250? Dae
Either

Dov/Ft Stare

ro eteaatioas Division.D. Project PRIGINTLY
Cftice of the Chie?
Brueh 2 Section B

1. nesoauanrens Washtartor, D.C,

12. Fino oR Ofer nino [at Reena
14, PORTTIOM CLASSIFVCATION ACTION

Co] ne {a Rican’

D5, VETERAV-E PREFERENCE

a ‘ BC]
V8 DATE OF Appgint. | 19 \eoaL aTsICE NCE

RAGA 1 aneto

pose le oe |

TSE Te EF
setinrtent Se

Te APPROPRIATION
00:

a $2 by 23,

Subject to the rut{sfactery catstion of a trial serfod of one ys:r,
Subject to the mating .atory ecenletion of a sedfeal exuninuticn,

— Lave.

ROW93

DOG: 2/2:/56
csrOD: 2/20/56
LoD: 2/20156
SOD, 6/02/51

PST Pues 2/24/57

td °
sone roreesne ene: ©, 28998 i
Hierrede Bg gr How sees i
> oe oe eo ae {
oS hee !

3 5 ‘ti
3 Se Ss
a ee, = H
3 U8 GovannienT pena office tee = ates |

, 4. PERSONNEL FOLDER COPY
A a (re]st


Hii SECRET |

(enon Fitted End

GENERAL

(arate? Ta: Date OF GIATH [3 8Ux aRnace io

| os | s-12 | D

‘CURBEWT STATION

Mexico City

"ONTING PERIOD (Prom to)
1 January - 15 July 1970,

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION ©
‘waoceeptoble. A rating in this cotegory requires immediate
‘counseling, te further taining, to plocing on probotion, fo racisignment or fo separation. Describe chon teben
‘Section ©
deficient in some oxpects The reesons for arsigning this cating should be stated in Section C ond remedial ections
toten or recommended should be described.
formance is tatisfoctory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.
chorocterined by exceptional proficiency.
Performance it 40 exceptional in relation to requirements of the wort and in compariton to the pertormonce of others doing similor
watk arto wotrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

10 81x of the
in which 01
with supervisory re

Weciere BUTT NOT e
Translation of Russian language materials inte English

transcript.

TPECIPIC DUTY WO.
Preparation of personality and assessment reports on individual

Soviets based on above.

SPECIFIE DUTY NO. 8

Transcription of English language conversations.

[spacinic OUrY NO.

wating

[SPECIFIC DUTY WO. 8 cerree

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. ©

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION 4 >

smployee which influences his effectiveness in his current position auch bs per-

job, coopetotivens ss, pertinent personal. taitt or habits, ond
A your knowledge atm s
nding to the

wATING
Cerren

formance of specific
ieulor limitations or tal



SECRET

(ee be
SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS
ot vrengtha oF weaknesses demonstrated in eviren? po
fence, Stole suggestion: male for improvement of sort
required for current posiion Are
yersormel action. fennscel eertorn:
fond funda, cit Be 9
This officer jas continued to perform his assigned tasks in
superior fashio#.c jNot.only/is he a skilled transcriber/translator,
he is also able to put his experience and knowledge into words in
preparing character analyses which have been of great value to the
Station's operational program. Although his work load is often quite
heavy, he’ can always be counted on to complete his assignments |
promptly and he’ willingly puts in the extra time frequently needed.

tadicote 9
overall pe

His team spirit and dedication are shown by the fact that on several
occasions, in spite of advancing age and recent illness, he spent long
hours in base houses on live-monitoring assignments. He will be
Greatly missed when he retires in the near future.

As previously noted, this officer does not handle operational funds
or have supervisory responsibilities. lo has had no cover problems,
nor has he required any unusual administrative support, other than that
which is: to be expected in connection with his forthcoming retirement.

SECTION O CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS:
1 ‘ay EE

TCERTIFY THAT | HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, AND € OF THIS REPORT.
DATE [stGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE Wiad.

‘si.
5 BY SUPERVISOR
iF Tet REPORT WAG NOT BEEN SHOUN TO EMPLOVEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

2
MONTHS EMPLOTER Was BEEN
UNDER MY SUPERVISION

19 months

DATE

TVPEG OA PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

SF PICiaL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Ops Officer Donald F. Voxel /s/
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

CouMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I concur in the above ratings and comments. I am not able
to add any meaningful comments due to the highly specialized
nature of Subject's duties.

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

+ aldiea OR PRINTED NAWE AND SIGNATURE,
| Deputy Chief of Statioi Ef

1 Y,Harsood_/s,

SECRET



SECRET. 7

Canon Fitted Bnd

feuPLovee SERIAL MUMDER

019477

7 GENERAL

(uiaai) ‘2. OaTE OF INT

caneen [renron
Tanz gavpnovinioway (ee tvtetlons» Section GF

era, pectin?
Tir DATE REPORT OVE IN O.P. z
28 February 1970 1 January thru 31 December 1969
_ [SECTION B PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
than sutlafoctory. A

W > Wook Perforfonce ranges from wholly inode slightly
l-action. The f
signment oF 1 3
Ax Adedvate — Patlormance meats oll requirements, W 14 entiroly sotisfactory and 18 choracterlzed nelther by deficiency nor
ellence.
P + Broficlent moro thon settsfactory. Desired
Performance ix characterized by exceptional proficiency.
formance Is 40 exceptional In relotion to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performonce of
9 similar work a9 10 wartast specie! recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific dutios performed 4)
s[inonner in which employee. Garlorms EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY
Si supervisory tesponsibilitios MUST be rated on thele abitity to supervise (indie
GPEEIFIE DUTY NOT . ne
Translation of Russian language materials into English
transcript. : s

sults oro being produced In a proficient manner.

ort rating fe
ferformance of thot duty. All employees

RATING
Cerree

7 cerren

SPECIFIC BUTE NOT
Preparation of personality and assesssent reports on individual

Soviets based on the above. s

RATING

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. > FT
Transcription of English language. conversations,

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

ie BUTT RATING
[sPeciric OuTY NO. 8 PATS,

RATING
Cerren

SPECIFIC OUTY NO ©

RATING
Toke late account everything about the amployoe which Influences his effectivengas In his current position such o* par- pee
cific duti iiye condycr on Jb. epoperativenast, psitinent personal, wale ‘habits, and
jations o talents. Based on your knowles eral performonce duting the rating period = S
ms ‘most accurotely raflacts his level of performance.

Tom 45 .use eagvious co! SECRET



SECRET : , \

(then Filles te)

SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS:

sition keeping in groper berapective thelt celetion sip 9
Give tecanmendotions for training. Comment
2 given in Section B to provide best

intel ceca

This officer continues to perform his assigned duties in & superior

fashion. Illness put him out of action for some tine, bat otherwise

_ the Station received the fine performance which has come to be routine
with him, This. officer's experience and dedication make it possible
for him to work effectively with an absolute minimum of supervision.
-Hesresponds instinctwely to items of operational significance, and his
experience and knowledge aake it possible for him to srite penetrating
analyses of target personalities, and interrelationships among these
persons, based solcly on what he hears.

This officer has also been called ipon to transcribe material from
audio operations, in addition to the telephone material which is his i
normal assignment. He has also handled this well, although his advan-
cing age and less acute hearing make this task mach more difficult
for him...

While not calltd upon to use Spanish normally, he has sufficient
fluchsy to handle material in Spanish when required.

This officer uses his time well and takes good care of the equip-
ment assigned to him, He dogs not handle operational funds nor does

he have any supervisory responsibilities.

Indicate significont st

SECTIOND CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS:
BY EMPLOYEE =
TCERTIFY THaT I WAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, AND C OF THIS REPORT

isigwATURE SF EMPLOYEE

SUPE

WONT HE EMPLOVEE HAS BEEN iF THis REPGAT HAS NOT SEEN SHOWN TO ENPLOVEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
UNDER MY SUPCRVISION

12 months BWSNURNAXX NSN IXXEX

© TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TYPED OF

Ops Officer

Yoel
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

$C OMUENTS BF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
I can add nothing substantive to the above report since I have
little opportunity to deal ‘at first hand with Subject's output.
- The rating officer is both meticulous and fair and I have full
confidence in his evaluation of Subject.

[OPFIETSE TCE OF ReviEwinG OF FIgTON | TYPED OR PRIGTED NAME aNO HOWATURE
i

20 January 1970 \ Chief, Ops Officer ' Paul V. Harwood /s/

SECRET

Dare



SECRET

(inen Filled tn)

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS REPORT
SECTION A. tga GENERAL

“ajay [2 OaTe Or ein |S SEx  [¥ ORADE |S: $B
2 Nov. 1908 M GS-12, D

TOFF/OIV/ER OF ASHIGNMENT (f: CURRENT STATION

019477

1. NAME

TOPPIEIAL POSITION TITLE

Ops Officer !_DDP/WH/1 | Mexico City

CHECK (XI TYPE OF REPORT

x coms SE (GuuEWT sUPERVISOR|

[areeian (Specitna:
ate REPORT OUE IN O.PL TE REPORTING PERIOD (From. to

28 February 1969 1 January 1968 thru 31 December 1968
SECTION B PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W Weck Performance tanges from wholly inadequate to slightly
positive remedial detion. The
probation, to reassignment oF 10 1
Performance meats all requirement:
excellence:

SB enecn 2 FePE OF APPOINTUENT,
x Reaenve

Iris entirely satisfactory and Is characterized neither by deficlency nor

s more then satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manners

Performone
Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the moat importent specific duties perfor
Imonner in which employes performs EACH specific dul
with supervisory responsibitities MUST ber

[SPECIFIC OUTY NO. T

Translation of Russian language product into English transcript

aPEcIIE DUTY NOT
Preparation of personality and assessment reports on individual
Soviets based on, the above. : in :

SPECIE BUTE NOS Ra FING
cerres

Translation of Russian letters into English s

SPECi#IG DUTY NOW terrer

Transcription of English language conversations P

ieie DUTY NO. RaTiaG
[sPeciric DUTY NO. 8 EARS

seeciric OuTY NO. ©

ZL

Nu

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

sccount everything about the amployoa which influences his effectivene: serren
yr conduct on Job, cooperativenest, par i _

rome
OM 45 use previous worTtons


SECTION C

overall

mperence, if

Ten

boats for acrermining future pertonnel action. Monnet of

inthe use.of persgnael, spocer cavigmset ond ade nee
je sheet ol po

jon C, entach @ sepe

This officer

years. His high

aid to our Soviet

Indiea2e signiticos ngthy oF we:

. From his daily work he has an i
into the personalities of indi
relationships existin;
The character analyses which hi

He has had no professional,
during the reporting period.

oper.

f
continues to consistently portolft ut th
level which has characterized his work in this Station for several
I level of personal dedication and
competence have become standard.

program,

His knowledge of Spanish continues to improve and aids him
considerably in his work.

ie excellent

profassjonal

ntimate knowledge of and insight
vidual Soviets and the personal inter-
ig between members of the local Soviet colony.
prepares are excellent and an invaluab

Administrative, or personal problems

complete.

46 PH BY

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

CERTIFY THAT | HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, AND © OF THIS REPORT

[SiGHATURE OF EMPLOY]

BY SUPERY

MONTHS EMPLOYEE nas BEEN
UNGER MY SUPERVISION

41 months

le THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHON TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

SP FICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

28 Jan 69

Ops Officer

VPED GR PRINTEO NAME AND SIGNATURE

Paul L. Dillion /s/

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICAL

B and in the narr:

fashion.

wv

The reviewing officer concurs with

the ratings given in Section
ative evaluation of this officer's performance
in Section C. He continues to perform his duties in a superior

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OF FICIAL

Chief of Station:

SECRET

TYPEO OR PRINTED NAWE AND SIONATURE

Winston M,

Scott /s/



Gici/ieteiil a SECRET 3

(anen Fitted In)

EuPLOveR SERIAL SUUGEM
FITNESS REPORT
. 5 019477
Sate GENERAL

EOTCaPeRTE [oer fo Onnoe
os an) ot | G3al2 iD
PHOS ARAM Siaammtnt o CURAGNT STATION
DDP/WH/1
Tarenaee ty TYPE OF REPORT

Taran,

Gr OFFICIAL OOSITION THLE

Ops Officer

Tauasrronuenr suPenvison|

aEsEAve Tewronany
-o inetructione - Section ©)

Tasmu a ae asaomwent EUPLOVER,

Terecian (Spectr:
1a, REPORTING PERIOD (Prom 1)

Ti. DATE REPORT DUE IN OP

robruasy 1BoK
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

uote to allghtly leas thon

‘ i ng atiaToctor. A rang tn thie coregory requires
tate terion could range from counseling, 10 further taining, f@ placing on
poration. Describe action token oF proposed In Sextion C-

It Is entirely sariatectory and Is choractorlzed nsither by deficiency sor

Performance tonges
positive remedial action, Tha
probation, fo reassignment oF

Hook
« Adesyate —Parformonce meets oll 109

rN
excellence.
P= Proficient Performance ts more then sotiafactory, Desired results ore being produced ino proficlont manner.
$.Swong Performance Is characterized by exceptional proficiency
Oc Qunatanding Petformonce 14 19 oxceptional In raletion to ronulrements ofthe werk ord in comparison 10 the performenes of
ork an 10 worront apectal recognition,

‘others doing simile

SPECIFIC DUTIES

performed during the.raving period. Insert coting letter which beat fo
vio portorreet alder ONLY slfgctiveness in performance of that duty All employees

EA eicdion thelr ability to supervise.iindicate number of employees surerTers

with superelsory
PECIFIE DUTY NO. 1

Translation of Mussian languase telephone product into English

Preparatioa of personality and asseseuent reports on individeal
Roviets based op the above.

aPEEIFIC DUTY NO.

Translation of Ruesian letters into Haglish.

TeeeIPIe DUTY NO.

Transcription of mylish lasguase conversations.

SPECIFIC DUTY ND. 8

apeeiFIC DUTY NO. ®

yb)

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

aTINS
Cerren

his effectiveness In his current position such 08 pam
cMeperativens®s, pertinent personal traits of habits, ond
TP eretloyee's overall performance duting the rating period) — S
Pe nant which most eccwately rellects hia level of performance.

‘Toke Into account everything about tho emplo:
Jormence of specific duties, preductivis
cr telents. Gosed en your know
ef

or 45 use previous eorrions SECRET a]



toletionship 9
ining. Comment
Te-provide beat

el

tats fan Sere
toate apace Tam

sgibeage starrer ees savel poem
fa 2d
ro his dutfretda Jae exgclient manner
8 tho

Thia officer coatinuce to perto!
that we havo como to oxpoct during the 4 1/2 years ‘thatihe has served
in the Station, Bie work is an indispensable part of the Station's
programm. Hehe

We has had 10 professional, adain
during the reporting period.

spanish in which he shoes satisfactory !sprove=

Tw

istrative or personal problens

Be continues to study 8
went.

SECTION CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS.
BY EMPLOYEE

TCEATIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND € OF TS REPORT
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE san [earanaracunisias

z 'Y SUPERVISOR ¢
Bs URLSTEE NAT BUEN [F_TnID HEPORT HAs NOY BEEN SHORN TO EMPLST ES Give EXPLANATH
URoen MY SUPERVISION IST BEEN SHOWN TO Em, GIVE EXPLANATION

ISFFicTAU TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TIDES OW PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

Ops Officer Paul Dillon
BY REVIEWING OF FICIAL :

COUHENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

The ReviewIng officer concurs In the ratings yiven this officer and
in the narrative evaluation of his performance.

SaCTITOE GF REVIEGING OFFICIAL [7 PED OR PRINTED NAME ANO STONATURE

station Winston Scott
SECRET Aun

of



SECRET

tanse Fitted In)

GENERAL

Tuiaiiay «a Cate OF GinTm [SER

i2 Nov 1908; Bt
CURRENT STATION

Tarr Divan OF ASIONNENT
Ops Officer noe/eH= 1 : | Mexico Cit:

PT CHEER (x) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT — CHECK IXD F¥PE OF REPORT

[RX feewuas, [atatnionneny euPLOvEE

Temecian (Spectivhs
EFORTING PERIOD (Fram fo)

1 January 1966-31 December 1966

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
2 than satisfactory. .A rating In this cotegory requires:
‘counseling, t0 further taining, to placing on

CARE EM-PROWIMIONAL (See inetructlon®
aencian (Specitrt
TI OATE NEPORT OVE IN O.P.

28 February 1967

We Weck Performance renges from who
positive remedial action. The

janment oF 10

‘ements, 11 ts entieoly satisfactory ond Is characterized neither by deficlency:ner

A+ Adequate
Srcellonces

P- Proficians Performance is more thon sottslactéry. Desired conults
Performance 1s characterited by exceptional prolictencys
1a to requirements of the werk ond In comparison to the performance of
‘spectal recognitions i

SPECIFIC DUTIES

ries performed during the rating period. Insert rating totter which beat
Toonsider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employeas
rte supervise (indicate number of employees superriaed)-

ing produced In a proficlent manner.

with supervisory
SPaCIFIE DUTY NO.

Translation of Russian language telephone tap product
into English transcript.

aPECiFIe DUTY NOt

Preparation of personality and assessment reports on
individual Soviets based on the above.

PECIFIC DUTY NO. Ratings
Cer ven

Translation of Russian letters into English.

specirie oUTY NO. ®
Translation of Spanish language telephone product into
English and transcription of English conversations

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.®

SPECIFIC DUTV NO ®

14 JUN REP”
OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN. CURRENT POSITION

thing obout the employee which Influences his off
Tomonce of apeciiic duties, productivity, condyct on job, cooperativere
ieirieler limitations of tolents. Besed on you knowledge of emplare

Fjace the totter athe rating bon corresponding te the stotemant which most occurate

‘Toke Into account ever

SECRET

ToD AS une previous tortion


SECRET
Cane HEINE to)
NARRATIv © COMMENTS
Keeping In proper perspective thelr relation ship to
emmendenions Tor training. | Conment
to provide

SECTION. C

tndicote sigiificant strengtha'er weotn

ie
moqgiven in Sect
Foon 4

continues to.show a high degree of competence
_in his primary responsibility, which is translating and

transcribing Russian telephone conversations, He works
quickly and accurately and has a fine feeling for the subleties
of the Russian language. His character analyses of Soviets
have been of great assistance in the Station's operational
planning. He continues to maintain his deep cover status well
and presents no problem of either an administrative or a
personal. nature, His wife continues to assist him with his
work, and together they make an excellent team.

Sudject is very cost conscious in his-operationl duties.

TERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS:
BY EMPLOYEE

T CERTIFY THAT 1 HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, AND C.OF THIS REPORT

SgWAVURE OF EMPLOYEE Y

ORE >
3 Feb 67 | 3) SEE GOLD / 4
4 BY SUPERVISOR
TONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS GEEN [Fe THis REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO "EMPLOYEE, GIVE REPLANATION
TRUER NY SuRcRVISION

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

ip GH PRINTED WAME AND FIGHATURE

3 Feb 67 Ops Officer /s/ Cynitha Hausmann

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I agree with the rating officer's evaluation. The Station

is fortunate that WEBB intends to remain permanently

in Mexico where he makes an invaluable contribution to the

SB Section's program and presents no difficulties whatsoever.

TTRED OF PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

/s/ Pavh Le Dillon

SFFICIAL TITUE OF REVIEWING OF FICIAL

ate

3 Feb 67

ops Officer
SECRET



\ Lad “- * SECRET
(nee Filet oy
Tercovee SERIAL NUMDF
019477 :

FITNESS REPORT

os
27 AP GENERAL
(oiutiey fas ate Or
ent 3¥atiOn

"Mexico City

r

ppp/n/
He

WENT suPEAvIOR

ites

cM
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
nadeavote to slightly teas than sot

SECTION B
‘om whol

fone The nature of the action could range fram coun:

Baration, Describe action taken oF prop

ii ATE REPORT QUE IN OF,

red neither by doficiency nor

We Wack
A+ Adeqvote crory and Is choracte
P= Proficient Parlormance 1x moro thon sotistectory. Desived revults are being produced In a proficient manner.
: 2 chara nal profictoney.
40 exceptional In Jsiramonts of the work and in compatison to the performance of
recognition.

formed during the rating
‘Cnsider ONLY effec

List up to ai important spacifi
manner in-which er forms EACH
with supervitor UST supervise (ind

phone ard audio praducts into English transcriot

Translation of Russian tele;
for

Processing transcribed telephone materials into a fanat which allows
immediate aralysis ard filing

SPECIFIC BUTT NO.
Preparation of personality and assessment reports on individual

basis of the above material

Soviets on the
i

Toke Inte account overything cbout the empleyes which infivances his effec
jt ° nes,

a
er Figgins o .
deine toting box corresponding

SECRET



“Tyosis fer determining future parzennel actions Mor

SECRET

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

fed ia current position her

SECTION C
Tedicate significent 5
overall parformonce, S13
ton foreign language competence,

aor

ommend ancy KA Sdyining. Comment

Gr weaknesses demon
suggestions made for improvement of work
{t requited for current positron. Amplily or <i

roy piven in Section B 19 provi
Xdvew ond cost con

ue 3 as
foo GT psi ope

ty :
ze in the excellent bd tarfecePHi'$§ officer
AAtJHOL His work.

ed londby mutt be omen

* Mere ms been no cha
ard his wife, a contract enployee, who assists him in al

mere have been no problens of elther a professYéth¥iom pergoral ature
during the reporting peried. 7 +

cn “BY SUPERVISOR Frere ceerye cence
Naon FRE EMBLOVER BAT MoT BEEN sHOwN TO EMPLOVER, GIVE EXPLANATION
Ghote my surenvision

912

= EY REO OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
Paul J» Dillon /s/

16 June 1966 chief/sR/Nex.
“BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

ita OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

[F¥EB On BaNNTES NATE AHO SigHATURE

scott /s/

sate SPFICIAL TITLE OF REVIERING OF FICIAL

16 Jure 1966 | chief of station | winston It

SECRET ,



12 Aug i.

“FITNESS REPORT (CONTINUED)

Subject has not been in a supervisory position and his
present assignment outside on unofficial cover working as
a loner gives no indication as to his supervisory ability. ,
It is believed Subject probably serves best as an independent
analyst without supervisory responsibilities.



(then Filted Tn)

_ \ 7 ly
aeittttg ™ SECRET nl : Y

aarcorEE jap ap eee
FITNESS REPORT CPP LO?

SECTIONA Ja elie? De : GENERAL
ot Ade or

J; taste)  OATE OF BIRTH |B 5EX

1908 GS-12

ia OF ASSIGNMENT |#- CURRERT STATION
_ fans Mexico City

Te CHECK (x) TYPE OF REPORT

TNA

Beecian (Specliyy
TE REPORTING PERIOD (From fod
_ 1 30 Sep 1964 - 15 Aug 1965
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Porfermonce ranges from wholly Inadequate to slightly leas thon sotlsfactory. A cating In this category requires
Potitive remedial action. The nature of the action could range Irom counseling, #0 further training, to placing on
tike action taken or proposed In Section C.

ly sctisfoctory ond I9 chorectorized neither by deficiency nor

Brobetion, to reossig . De:
Performonce meets all requirements. It 13 ent

Performance Is more than tatisfoctory: Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner,

Perlormonce 1s characterized by exceptional proficiency.
Porformance is 10 axcoptlonal in relation to requirements of the work ond in comparison to tha performance of
THR thera doing similor work ax to warrent special eecognition,

__ SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most Important. specific duttes.porformed during the rating period.
Worms EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY affecti

reivie GuTY NO. t

Translation of Russian language telephone and audio product
into English transcript.

SPECIFIC OUTY WO. E

Preparation of characterization-assessment personality report
on the Soviet complement.

[sPeciric DUTY NO. #

Processing of transcribed telephone materials into format
facilitating immedicte analysis and handling by the Station.

i RATING
~ | Cerrer

PEED

SPECIFIC DUTY NOS

aPecivie DUTY NO. 6
; . f
OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

hi 2 which Influences his effectiveness in his current position such a8 pore
formance of spacilic dutic’ » jobs eooperctiventss, pertinent personal alts habits, cand
perticulor limitarlons or talents. ige of employee's overall performance duting the rating period,|

Pies ihe fetter ip the roping box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance,
TRE 45 cesopkre previous corrions. SECRET

Toke t



SECRET .

(then Filled tn)
NARRATIVE COMMENTS
ted in current position i In propor perspective their

‘ona code for imerovement of work performance. Give recamimende i ce
sition, Amplity of ratings given tn Section B to provide bear

fon. Mohner of porlermence of managerial er supersizary duflon must be Geecribed, it
# RG ergy
Subject has continued to demonstrate a very nfgn level of
interest and competence in his work, Beyond the relatively technical
aspect. of producing transcriptions, which hé'decomplishes with. time
liness, accuracy and thoroughness, he. strives to provide the Station
and Headquarters with an insight in depth on the local Soviet com-
plement. He does this capably, particularly when one understands
the limitations of his technical access. His wife, 9 contract em-
ployee, assists him in the preparation of the technical product.
However, her over-all contribution goes beyond this, since Subject
and his wife work together in effort to distill the meaning of their
product interms of personality.assessment, They are uniquely well
adjusted-to their deep cover circumstances, are of little burden
administratively to the Station, and are presently interested in
continuing their assignment in Mexico City indefinitely,

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS:
t BY EMPLOYEE
CERTIFY THAT I HAVE TEEN SECTIONS 4, @, ANO C OF THIS REPORT.
ji acne ‘OF Eweiover tf a
February 1966 ES eteraecpommmeee /s/ Jt 4-// Ba
BY SUPERVISOR

WONT HS EMPLOYER HAs iv Tis REPORT Wai SHOWN ¥
BOSE Tatas OREN is REPORT NAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EUPLOVEG, GIVE EXPLAI

na OM
2¢
oMTE frre Tite OF SURERVIION TYPES Oh PRINTED WANE AND SioNATORE
| Operations Officer Eerbert Hanell = /s/
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

22 Dec 1965

3.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
Chief of Station, Mexico City concurs in this Fitness Report as submitted
supervisor for. the perlod reported,

TYPES OR PRINTED NAWE ANO BIGNATURE
Winston %. Scott /s/

‘OPFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Cnief of Station

SECRET


ara SECRET ai

(open Fitted tn)

Oo CURMENT STATION

‘hivenve senenaes
ro

ee rrpaavinicans (Eee invtraitone =seetten ©)

jarectan Gpecilpe
TOATE REPORT OUR In G-F

HePoRTing PERIOD (From fo)

than satistoctery. A rating in thi ory
ie hrom counteling, to fuerhee training, 40 placing on
‘sohen of proposed in Section Ce

4 eatthor by deficiency nor

to slightly
ection could

We Mask

As Adgavate — Porlaraznce meets

ereelionce.
Proficient Performance 1s more than
$+ Seong Performance 19 chorecterited by excef

1 In relation to requ!
varront special recognitions

ECIFIC DUTIES iz

[List up to six of the mest importont apecitie dul arformed during the 19 period. Insert rating terres which best descril

manner in which employes performs EACH specific day. Ci «ONLY ettectiveness in performance at that duty.

spensibilivios MUST be ro! yd on their abi vise Uindicate number of emplerys supervised).

0 = Quistending Parforeence bs v0 exceptions
Seeing sleitar week

wariNg
terran

mith supervisory
WECiPIC OUTY NO.

urge telephone 2:

japacine DUTY NO. ®

TeETIRE DUTY NO. ®

SeEciriG DUTY NO. *

cerree

specie DUTY NO. 8

ats
ferrer

SPECIFIC OUTY NO.

RATING
Cerri

Toke into agcount everything about the
formance of specific curies,
porricular limitati
ploce the lerter

21 NOY 1963...



SECRET

[SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS

iniligant atrongihs or weaknesses demcris ated In éuttent position heaping In proper per spective thelr relotionshi

sone ae sericons made tor ioprovement of work performance. ivy recemmenderinns or taining, Comment
MW soaured lor cuerent poaition, Amplily-or exploin ratings given in Section B to provide beat

jonne! eation, Moangr of pertormonce of managerial or tupersisary duties must be described, if

wilt overtine sconces.
sorieims to t
more femiliar wit
n expertenea and with eluser superviste:
ale to make » more imaginative ecnirtbution to his werk,

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

isa To :MPLOYEE ia ::

T CERTIFY THAT 1 HAVE SEEN SECTIONS 4, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT
TaanaTure oF €wPLove€

25 October 193 | /3/

SECTION D
in

‘oaTe

2

SONTHE EMPLOYEE Mad ReEW iv Vaid MEPGAT WAS HOY mE EN EMOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLAWATION
UNDER MY SUPERVISION |

care SPFIEIAT Vite OF SURERVIEER TYPED GH BINTED Wine AND SiONATURE

Operations Officer ‘/3/ Herbert Manell
‘BY REVIEWING OF FICIAL a

25 October 1963

3
COMMENTS OF FEVIESING OFFICIAL

TYPED Sa PaNTEO NAME END TaNATORE

Ve hi

ING OF FICIAL

Sree TRE OF wT
0 4th
SECRET



Spenioh Basie heading, Speaking, kriting oy 2 0efis{sh
(260 hours, full tine) :

Student 1 Boris D. Paracoft Office 1H

Year of Birth + 1998 Services Designeticar 9

Grode en : No. of Students 1

EOD Dato a 92/56 Instructor: Mre. L. Edwards

COUNSH OBYECTIVES = CONTENT AnD METHOD

Thie 1o a 20-veck, Full-tina course. The gonercl ri: of tis courss ts to
enable the atudent. tc une tho apcken Jancuace vith moderate facility end ce-
cureey jn @ Jarge nunter of everyday situstions while yrosluing a beats for
further loaning of the lenguege either by cctual use tr: the area or by further
fore) etudy. The sajor cbjoctivuo of the course ore to davalep an ebslitys
L) to distinioh and predyes tha sounds of tho Jangus 2) to wea
verioty of tanic sentences cnt sapreaaicnz in tho epoke: language ond apel,
by Toecoatinution to now eituationss 3) to couprehend ayexen Spenish do/a variety
of current ewrydey aituatic:s; 4) te develop the skills end techniques nooded to
Feed Spuntol texte with rinizim we of the dictloscry; 5) to write the lancuaze
in besie form, including letters, iwlezru-s, chort conpositlon, ete.

tho entare working day, 5 deyo e ‘wok, in dovoted exclusively to lengunce
study. Pour te five houre detly (o naxicu of 25 hows A wook) are devoted to
guided drill end corsersatioG precticy :fih Gstive speakers, The telance of the
day 18 devoted to language Inboretory drill aul proparation of assirned enterialy
Three cays at Mid-toms and tho final ueok of the course are spent in a special
Lnayuage-bouse in viich Spenish ic cpcken oxcluatvely.

ACHIEVEMENT RECOKD

Student progress 10 evalusted prinarily on orel recitstica in tho for of
dria end freo conversetion besed on reccrized mutaricl, In addition, several
testa are given diring the course. Tre nucber of ctudests recalving oech
adjectival reting oa cverall course periormuncs is ehown below. This atudont?s
rating 19 indleated by ths satoriske

Tncomlaia «= Uaahiotoctory © Satiagfacrery —Esailant
i ae L

turoughout &
‘as modest but

to pronuysis
, Via y
vey boot

Mr. Tarasoff's apzlicatio

SeECaitebeT
(When filled in)



i Gap SECRET aid

(then Feb t Sed

FITNESS REPORT

oN oe . oe .. GENERAL
ane to (Five (idsiey (2. BATE OF BI eanaoe [x30 TY
Tarasoff Boris D. GS-11 on
is. CURRENT STATION

HON THT Ce

(0. eign I

. CHeen (x) tree oF APPOINT?

Wor rica

Hae

Cancer it serve

Reassiguwent SuPERVISOR|

CARERMPROVIBOWAL (See inatructions *

X__ Reatnrowsenrawecevee

[beecean tspeciipr
TW DATE REPORT OUE IN O.P,

21 October 1962

Performance tanges from wholly Inadequate to slightly
positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range fram counseling, to fur
Probotion, fo reassignment of to separstion, Describe action token oF proposed in Section Co

Performance méot® all requirement a.

than satisfoctory. Desired results ore boing produced In a proficient manners
120d by exceptional proficiency.

P + Prolictent
‘$+ Strong

+ Qytetonding Performance Is 40 exceptional in
others doing slmiler,work a 10 warrant special recognition,

thon satisfactory.” A rating Ia this category requires +
to placing on

It 18 entirely satisloctory ond ba characterized avither by deficiency nor

lan 10 roquirements of the work ond in comporlaon to the performance of

SPECIFIC DUTIES
stormed doting tha toting pated, Inner rating ter which bows

List up to six of the most Important specific dutie.
rms EACH specific du
4 MUST be rated on thelr ability to supervise (indicate number of employeen auperrieed).

SPaciric CUFT N
Reads Russian-language newspapers, periodicals and books to find information
of intelligence value on Soviet hesvy and construction machinery industries

seri
Consider GUL elfectivaness in porlormance of that duty. All emplo:

3 the

aa Fine
terres

°

sPeciMIe DUTY NOE

Evaluates materials found in published sources for processing through
internal reports or through contract translations

terran

SPECiPIE Buty NOS
Extracts and translates items for internal reports

RATING

sPaciPic OUTY NO. 8

cerren

of interest to the entire Industry and Materials Section of USSR Branch, FDD |

Compiles Quarterly Scheduled report, Commedity Output of USSR Union He
Republica a
TeEtinie bury nos : Gusssisssfastesfecteciectesiecieniadias TEES |
Scans Russian-language newspapers, pericdicals, and books and selects items {| ~-

°

SPECIFIC DUTY NO ©

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

effectiveness in his currant position such
ne 88, pertinent personal traits of
"s overall performance duri

influgne

ities, produetlvity, conduct an jeb, coo
- Bated on your knowledge of employ.

roam
a

_ SECRET

45 cesoveva previous eorrions.

s



SECRET

SECTIONT NARRATIVE COMMENTS

d In current position keeping In proper pacacective thele 1
nt of mock perform roi

7 During his rating period, as during his eatire tour o@.duty in FD,
Mr. Tarasoff bas demonstrated himself to be a mture highly-capable :
intelligence officer. His profeseional ability dnd personality contributed
Greatly to the smooth operation of his section.

CERTIFICATION ANO COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

TEERTIFY THAT | HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

~TEISHATURE OF EmPLOVEE >
BY SUPERVISOR

OG Sept 1962 nie D. Tarusel

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN IF THIS REPORT HAS. EN SHOWN TO EMPLOVES, GIVE EXPLANATION
UNDER MY SUPERVISOR

lyr, 10 me.

“|ORFICIAL TITLE OF SUPE AVEO TYPED of PAINT

EE Chief, Industry and Materiglo) (vo. /:'
‘AB Sept 1962 Section, USSR Branch EDWIN R. STRAKNA

3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
: $f has corvvon sense and i

ile aoara cates ‘ oa, for inbelligence
the elda for rs

‘OFFICIAL TITLE,OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL [TVBEO Of PRINTED NAYE ON

Chief, USSR Branch TALAOY BIEL ee
SECRET



SECRET ia :
OWten Filled in) 7 ead
EWPLOVEE SERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS REPORT i ; agurt
SECTION A el GENERAL
1 NaMe Tae Wire) ‘eiaaioy 2. oate oF ont Wen ‘omsoe
Terssoff, Boris “ Dy 2 Novenber 1908 x: [ Gs-n
3 SERVICE DESIGNATION] @. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE 7 ORF Div en OF AssianueNT
oD IO (Foreign Doc.) 00/FDD/USSR Branch
os canden Stare bratus os ‘Or eponT
[aor euvarece weween oarennee mutT /FUPEAVIEOR
Oecumeo “femmes. ¥ [awwaae Be Atsionmtnt/euPcovee
10, Dare wePony OUR IW'0.P, [lic REPORTING PERIOD FPECIAT (Sresti7)
32 Oct 1962 ‘Ldct 60-31 Sep 617”
SECTION & EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES
nt apecitic dutlox gertermed during the voting tntert rating number which be be
1s EACH tp i¢ duty. Consider ONLY effecti 18 in parformans f that duty, All employees
‘MUST be Htity upervine (indicate manber of employ supervised,

1 Unsotisfoctory [2 = Borety adequate ~ [3 - Accoptoble _[4- Competent [5 - Excellent [6 «Superior |? = Ovlstondin
sreciric oury wo. 1 Reads Soviet newspapers aariwa[speciric oury no-« Compiles quarterly
oumalp, ond books fort feta “rl geheduled report Comadity Output of
‘trial organizations, on subjects " 7 ~~ | USSR Union Republics 3
Overed_by other section members.
FrEeinic OUTY NO.? Judges value of informyWer®|*reir'e OvT¥ No. ® Performs special asaiga4mne
Jon in Soviet publications, and ca- ‘ments for other CIA components, such
fonin schediled reports or for con- | 6. | 80 interpreting from tapes end writing
ion | reverse translations.
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. Rayna [sPeciric OUTY NO. 8 marina
Writes and compiles Eee Mee
articles for scheduled reports. 5
SECTION C ___ EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

1 In his current position « perlermane:
hobits, particular limitations or talent
the rating number in the bex corresponding to

overall perlormer
ly eaflects his level of partormans

RarTing|
ro

6

ny important respects fails to meat requiremen
leficient in one or more Important respects.

SECTION D DESCRIPTION OF THE 3
In the roring boxes below, check (X) 1
1: Least possible degree [2+ Limited depres

]S= Outstanding degree

CHARACTERISTICS atime
5 «T2j3atays
‘GETS THINGS DONE iT x
RESOURCEFUL T x
ACCEPTS RESPONSIONL TIES as x
CAN MAKE DECISIONS OW KIS Own WHEN NEED ARISES x
DOES HIS 408 WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT a 1 {- x
FACILITATES SMOOTH OPERATION OF HIS OFFICE x
SecuRiTy conscious a7] Hanan x
‘Thinns CLEARLY Ee i x f
(f IN ORIGINATING, MAINTAINING ANO DISPOSING OF RECORDS i ‘x

‘SEE SECTION *E* ON REVERSE SIDE
SECRET ow



i SECRET ‘

strengths ond ~ yeu for improve!
ci

rommendettons foe ht co anveming Sreoter Fes
‘of explain, IT opprops! to Dasis for de

.
Serious-minded, hard-vorking, vell-info mmovledge
of the USSR, its people, and its institutions. Innately itelligence
officer, he has'the ability to discern nevs of intelligence value where
a others see nothing. Maintains an image of the wéhdgothe USSR, the US
‘ : and the GIA in his mind, and seldom makes incorrect prediction or
- estimate regarding World or Soviet affairs.
: ’. His.intellectual maturity of the Russian language makes him adaptable
to a large variety of assignments. Is characterised by resolutaes,
steadfastnéss, and ability to resist pressure or propaganda.
‘ i His work in the section has been excellent throughout, and he covers
! subject fieids equivalent to the work of 3 people in 1955. He works very vell
as part of a team.
: His qualifications are an asset both for work in FDD end for assignments
involving personel contacts and utilizing spoken Russien.

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS:
BY EMPLOYEE.
Teertily that | hove ssen Sections A, B, C, D and E of t

SIGWATURE OF EMPLOYEE

: BY SUPERVISOR
MONTWa EMPLOVEE HAE OEEN [iF THis REPORT WA NOT @EEN SHOWN TO ENPLOVEE, dIVE EXPLANATION
Della aac neta Is at present on detached duty. Will be dhown copy on his
9 E return,
TW REFORT 18 NOT BEING MADE AF THIS TIME, GIVE REATON,
RESORT WADE WITHIN LAST 90 AVA

femPLOVEE UNDER MY SUPERVISION LESS THAN 90 DAYS:

lormun (Specity):
DATE OFFiciAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR
Chief, Industry & Materials
October 1961, Section

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

(WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE ADOUT THE SAME EVALUATION.
1 wOULO HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A HIGHER EVALUATION.
7 WOULD WAVE GIVEN THiS EMPLOYEE A LOWER EVALUATION,
T CANNOT JUDGE THESE EVALUATIONS, 1 AMNOT SUFFICIENTLY FAMILIAR WITH THE EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE.

Tountut’ OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
‘This supervisor tends to rate. little high in his over-all evaluations; Mr, Tarasoff's
performance is not¥outstanding in every respect; however, he is a superior eployee,
and has an unusual amount of native camion sense and intelligence ins
literally .
a
vate OF PiGiaL FIFEK OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |FYPHD OR PRINTED AME A}D ONATURE

25 Getobver 1961 | chtef, USSR Branch ‘ facie Bieideelae
SECRET



gs 00. 1969

: Sy ae -
ne te E Pasi mn) 7 Secn ty 0D/CSB
Fezrezde ted cues verver crea emeWe caste at Tan apt et ataaiaestaviat OT PLOVER SERIAL NUMBER
(\ FITNESS REPORT = ™ | igh?

GEN a
fred eniatiey SLE YRB™ 908 re csetye

7 Gee 7OIV/OR OF ABTIONMENT
. COfTDD/KISR Branch

os CAREER STAI OF TYPE OF REPORT,

Sag Avice DEsIONATION &
ch

the are

Ore Hos,

WOT ecioreue Tr ita REASHGNMENT/SUPERVIBOR
aL Lessee Denice aNNGAL REABIGNMENT/EMPLOVER
fie DATE REPORT OUR IN O.P. Ponting PERIOD 7, | SPECIAL (Spectr)

EVALUATION OF PERFOR!

List up to atx of portant apeciti ertoemed
Jmonner in which 2 EACH specific duty, Con
Sith supervisory responsibilities MUST be sated on thoir ability

INCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

Insert rating number which beat
i performance of that duty.
(indicate musnber of eerployees supervised).

SECTION B

1 = Unsatisfactory Zs Barely odaquare[3-Acceploble [4 Competent [5 - Excellent [6 - Superior 7 - Ovtstonding
marina | SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4 Rare

H*SSuH8 WELLE documents for informatich Ne.
on a Wide range of industrial suvjec
for use in nis own and others’ repor' 6

FEWEST Lierice information reportivel:
chemical, metallurgical, corstructi
and power machinery $

NO. ® crerery
Non

SEGUIESTENela projects, oral and widen)” Te OUTT NO ® magsne

as required

SECTION C EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

his effectivenses in his current position + performance of specific
‘personal tralts os hobits, porticular limit talents. B
ating period, place thi

1 raquicements.
‘more Important respects,

SECTION D DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE —
in he rating bonas below: check (X) tha degree to which each choroctartaile opplies te the employee

T= Leeat possible degree [2 Limited de: [3= Hormol degr ‘5 - Outstanding degree
RATING

t[2]3

CHARACTERISTICS

[Gute ranot cone
mesouncervi :
AEcEPTs RESPONBIOILITIE®
CAN MAKE DECISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEEO ARISES i
O9E5 nis 560 IT HOUT #¥HONG SUPPORT
FACILITATES SMOOTH OPERATION OF His OFFICE a
WRITES EFFECTIVELY 4 —- =
SECURITY cONsEIOUS ¥
Tanne CUEARUY

TISCIPLINE iW ORIGINATING, MAINTAINING ANO DISPOSING OF RECORDS
‘OTHER (spect):

SEE SECTION *E* ON REVERSE SDE.

TSE" 45 onsovere enevious,eorrions. SECRET

w


nent JSESRET,,
NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOS PERFORMANCE ____.

seated in Corieat position, Indicate suggestions mod ORE = fas nrees
ining.” DeacriSe, iT azeroptiote, bis potentiel bor dev TRACER AEA naay
SRE TONS Br Cy ond D vo provide the best bosia'leP

ommend

“Amplify ov explain, Ut appropriate, ronagt

wre personnel actions ie ‘ :

SES Retive Russian language facility is cx tronendeus assistance to the gection and
3 diy

the agancys ‘iis rapid scanning of Sevist decuments fer 4594 ry up
veleatle bits of information en cther suvjects, wich he is always cae Ee cer
te tee proper persons. He ig slays ready te assist with langusge preblens and sf

re SNonte know the answer he exvausts all pessitle means to Tivkditepggg ts called

or for spectal branch or divisien projects invelving reverse, translatl@R, and he has
Solas gunber of TDY assigments myciring spoken Russians The sorsels of intelligence
glaaned for his oun reports fron the masses of material vidch he scans are briefly and,
Yerecly stated, Is a systeratis worker, keeps good filusy and avoids duplication.
Plans and organizes uis activities carefully so thathe always manages to cunplote a
project well ahead of the target date, Has constant infornal centact with all his
veedenera ond goes to any Langth to give then what they want, provided that, tueiz,
request 1s reasonable and Justifiacle. f they ask for soething waich he knows is
cree alae or which has been cuplicated elsewhere, he has no difficulty in persuading
eer eo cancel the requirenent, since they have luorned that they can trust his work
and his. gentine desire to help. it 1g rot hard to discern that ho sometimes cets
tered sidn the monetony of Ris werk, Sat an occasional tour of THE is generally
suffisient to revive lis enthustasn fer anotzer year at fis desk, as an uneven
tengeranent, sonatines gloomy ant smetices bantering, but orly rarely does this

affect his working relationships.

TIFICATION AND COMMENTS
BY EMPLOYEE fereniastias
dE of this Report.

CER

Thave seen Sections A, B,C, 0
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

BY SUPERVISOR

2 Z
WonTns SUP LOVEE maz BGEN TF Tad REP GAT wad NOT SEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOVES, OVE EXPLANATION

URGER SY SUPERVISION

52 Rnplogée on TOY

IF REPORT WSNOT SE

Eup Lovee UNOER NY SUPERVISION LESS ¥new Wo) Yo [eresar anes sivene cai w eave

Te reen (Spectr): i E
eave oR TeyWeD On PRINTEDNAMY ANO SIONATURE
25 cet 60 i Hat “industry, Mitantuue f pe Se.
ou | Rosauund 2, Featsch
= BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
Lo WOULD HAVE GIVEN THis ENP LOVER A05U7 THE See EVALUATION!

TBOULD MAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A HSSHER EVALUATION,
OULD NAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOTEE ALS

TRNOT JUCGE THESE EVALUATIONS, | a0 NOT SUFFICIENT

@Evaiuarions

TU FaMILIAW BUT THE EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

ED O% PRINTED NAME ANO SIONATURE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL i

qalbot Bielerelat

ware
28 October 1960 Chief, USSR Branch
SECRET



ee oe
‘ : SECRET 4 :
hen Filed tn)

FITNESS REPORT
isso stsntenstant
TSENERAL

‘Date OF GINTH

Tae tiaeo Winns aaaioy
Terasoff, Boris De 1.2 Nov 2908.

nts;

Bemis annuae

wapoRTING PERIOD >> peecian (Speer)

7 r.
10 Nov_58=30 sep. 59 | __
EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

ing number which beet di th
‘All employe

i: ORreRneo iwatiae

Liat up to ale of the on int specific dutios performed during 1

or in whieh empl EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY.
jod on thelr ability Yo supereise (indicate number

[7 Outstanding
prety
wot

T- Unsatisfactory 2. Barely odequote | [a= Compete
srecirie

BPeciPig OUTY NO.t
Seans Soviet documents for intelligence ian
information on a wide range of
industrial subjects
pPecivic OUTY NO. maze lepacirie DUTY NO.® ererry
Writes reports based on the above bil =

| material 4

crores
Now

Seeciric oury No.8
Does special scanning, translation,
‘and rosearch jobs aa required 5

SECTION € EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANC!

Into eccount everything ebout the employs
‘productivity, conduct on job, cooperctiveness,
Suledge af omployee's overcil performance during the rating

Tiitemant which most accurately raflects his-level of perlcemance,

‘aile applies to the employs
Tas Abo 5 Outstonding degree

Do Hormel degree.

CHARACTERISTICS .

‘Gets THINGS DONE,
RESOURCEFUL

ACCEPTS RESPONSIOILITIES

CAN MAKE DECISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES
DOES 13 108 WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT
PACIUITATES SHOOTH OPERATION OF HIS OFFICE,

waives EprecTIVERY,
security conscious

THINKS CLEARLY
DISCIPLINE IN OMIGINATING, MAINTAINING ANO OISPOSING OF RECOROS

OTHER (Spectr

SEE SECTION *E* ON REVERSE SDE.

SECRET ro)

E30" 4S opsavere previous eorrions.


jvritten reperts based on this material present good inteLligence internat

SECRET
NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE pynaasanana
. onstrated in current poleitron, jicate suggestions made to employ jt provement of
sorties cre aoe eae coe Bese
Wings grew = SECTIONS 8. C, yd O 42 woveca we bent tenis FASO
‘good: judgment in extracting data cn a wide ran,
‘is

technical subjects from Soviet documents, which he scans with’ great Abpi a)
0:

a
they suffer slightly fron small inaccuracies in ayntax and gramer, and there BAS
ecoasional passages where the mearirg is. vague cr the logical connectiog between facts
haa not beer ade clear. Tits type of,psssage ray be further complica "oR ge lack of
native faniliarity with thé precise English idicm and his tendercy sometines to use the
‘wrong connective. However, ary such failings in tho use of English are‘ontirely offset
by his supericr knowledge of Russian. Bis pronptness in submitting reports and in
‘completing other ageignments is exceptional, Saintaina close relations with consumers an
goes-out of his way to fil) all their requirments to the letter. His preatest assot to
the secticn, tranch, and division is his-native “usoian fluency and his knowledge of the
USSRs. He wot only serves as consultant and authority on MM the Russian language for the
section and tranch, but takes on extra jobs as translator or interpreter as required by
the division cr the agency. His natural intelligence has enabled him to do on-the-spot
or rush jobs in fields in which-he -has had no backgreund. 49 continues to learn and to.
retain his-knowledge. During a period when his well-deserved promotion wi blocked
because of thalack of a slot, a situatica which was unfortunate but the fault of no one
in his office,"he became a bit rebellious and reluctant to take on extra duties which ho
otherwise would have accepted. He feels, and rightly so, that he is capable of more
challenging ani perhaps more interesting. assignments which require the use of spoken
Russians .Bvery ‘opportunity has been given him to find such a permanent assigment, and

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
BY EMPLOYEE

monyna EMPCSTEE was @EEN
UNOnW MY SURE RIS

3 yrs, h no

Wa WACE AY Ynid TIME, GIVE REASON.
Gat MAOK wiTnin LasY 90 Daya

TEER on Bingrap nnct and HouATORE
‘onanund £. Deutsch

wy aurea

_emeconees Se

JoTHEN iSrece i
eB" Oot 1959 Ohivet, Yndustry and Sateriale
MEMESA Section, USSR Branch

SE EVALUATIONS, TAM MOT SUFFICIENT? FAMILIAR WITH THE EMPLOVEESS PI

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Date

29 October 1959

SECRET


TOMS

TOR TE MAINTSTHATIVE OFFICER: Consult eureent

Yom TH BSTKVISOR: This ceport is designed to: elt
‘wahustion Re. yout supervisor ont senior offi
Ath you.

Completion of the

Sate be atende
Tt ie steo orgsni zation

rd. oeakne nse’

tinder -ecndi tions apeci
wey goreteon. Tf thie “ia the initial report on

Forececel to eter than 30 days after the dete ind!

Ted in Regulation. 292320. 18

for ccapirting thie veport.

subordinate ent to temnsnit

thet you infore the subordi-
jon sath Nin of hi

rept

Ip you expres
fats. Organi
policy that ‘you shoe Par!
Teconmemied that you read ti
jmployee. tt must be cowplr

ed tn item R, of Section

the
ie:

Tr SERVICE COST GHATION

Giaety Trivets
TARASOFF, Doris

oD

DIFIZET EI viBION/ BRANCH OF ADSI GHMENT

‘/rpp/usSR Branch

7

To wast [8 Gate wEPoRT OUE in OF

G3 11 December 1958

EAIOG COVERED BY THI ?

21 November 1957. - 20 November 1958

10. ¥/90 oF REPORT
(Ghecd one)

. eran (Spectty)

C Tspiviauaw BATED, tf NOT SHOWN. EAPLAIN WY

catse (8) APPROPRIATE STATEEMTS:

vee

SiGATORE OF SuPEAVISoNTO. SUPERVISOR'S OFFICE TIM

vant? Kea Sch Crset, Materials

jsidw asta Jae SUPERVISOR.

USSR _Br.|
tus

Tats Sarl 79

29 Sov 1958

‘mTaltct bielefeld

Ne OFFiGIA

ch

Sectioa C.

JOB PERFORMANCE EVALUATIP

fae OM GESERAL PERFORWANCE OF DUTICS

DIPPCTIONS: Consider ONLY the produc
during the rating pe

Factors other than productivaty ¥i

docs nor PERFORM OUTIES ADCOUATELY:
@
c

WY OUT RESPONSIBILITIES.

Pemrones wOst of WIS Surres ACCEPTADLY:
CEFECTIVE wamneR.

D peeromes mntees tm A COMPETENT,

Penronus wis OUTICS Im SUCH AN OUTS
THE SUPERVISOR.

WS (Part 1) of rons asano ase mice
ee ovsovere

rome 02.
vsey a5

vity end effectivencss with whic
‘Coopare him ONLY with others doing
LL be taken inte account Later

Me ROEGUATE In PEMFOSWANCE: ALTHOUGH HE HAS HAD SPECIFSC

1 STINE Pemromwamces CAMPICS OUT WANY OF WIS

fh the indsviduel Being tated has performed
ilar work at  sipiter levet of respons
Section D.

ne 1S INCOMPETENT
Guioance Of TRAINING. ME CETEN FAILS TO

OCCASIONALLY REVEALS SOME SECA OF SCAKNESS.

Eacerricurtey atte.

EQUALLED BY Fm OTHER PERSIANS SNORE TO

TANDING MANNER THAT WE

SECRET Performance w



ee apecific duty enn vene ee in pe speeifte duty.
WALL aluayn be gated one ia i Ry dogo superviaore those]
r

Nh ince AQa HD Ore sane duty at a

ate then on different

ate, the individual being tated

be pertoraing different duties. Uf a0,

1. Deapecttic. Faanpies of the kind of duties that ‘might be cated ore: MAIL ROOM
ora atterive as Avp USES AREA RNGULEDGE cnvrecrs Ivrremocartons
GI¥ING LECTURES ‘DEVELOPS NET PRoGeaNs: PREPARES SUWOARIES:
4 : ANALyeeS INDUSTRIAL REPORTS THAVSLATES GERWAY

SRITING THCHNICAL RETORTY Eris
CONDUCTING EXTERVAL LIAISON rEEPS BOOKS
reine DaIvES TRUCK
TARING DICTATION MAINTAINS ALR CONDI TIONING
IBS CORRESPONDENCE EVALUATES SIGNIFICANCE OF paral

SUPERVISING RAP
1 For some jobs, dutien may be broken dow even furth
and phone operation, in the case of « radio ope

er AC supervises considers it advisable, eg., conbined key|

ry WN AN OUTSTANDING wawnem

V+ UNCOMPETENT Im THE PUMFORUANCE OF THId OUTY .
2s eaatey ADEQUATE IN TNE PEMPORWANCE OF THIS VURY FER INDIVIDUALS HOLDING 81
pescesprive our t
" 9. PERronus mts DUTY accEPTADLY iy 1+ CFCELE AnVORE 1 KNOW IN THE PERFORMANCE OF

suwotn 4} PeRfomes Tats DUTY IN A COMPETENT MANNE®
3 PenFORNS THIS OUTY IN SUCH A FINE MANNER

We bie aoe

aus
Porta’ “saratopuments Lor ;tptonligeras  lvatntains technical files
ef chistabtaade inked

Pucreie bute ao.

Se:

Setentve Bure wes F

Writes technical reports

sevecieve ovty wo. @

aeeteene out wor ®

Serves as language consultent

DInVGTIONS. Streas stecvathe ond seeknexsce, particulatly” those which effect developncad on peetent Joly WOFKB

+ Reads Russian rapidly and looks out for material of interost to others as he
scans. Is adaptable and flexible and handles several different technical fields with
equal facility. Can tackle almost any subject without previous experience and turn out
ja good Job, His native knowledge of Russian is of considerakle benefit to tho vhole
section. Selects the salient points from masses of ugcless or repetitive material with
intelligent Judgment, and compiles reports which are pointed and concise. Hia only
deficiency. of any consequence is the slight avkwardness and occasional lack of clarity
bis written English style. His English has improved corsideratly during the past two
jyears, but sometimes the failure to use the most precise term or the right connective
complicates for the reader a conception which is verfectly clear to the writer.

speoductivity, conduct in the jobs
apecual defects or taiente..-.and how he fits im with your team, Com

+ OF DOUBTFUL SuITABICITY.. WOULD NOT HAVE ACCEPTEO HIM IF 4 WAD eNOMW MAT 1 ENOH NOS
A BARELY ACCEPTABLE FMPLOVEC,..OFLOR AVERAGE GUT #1.TH NU BEAHNESSES SUFFICIENTLY OUTSTANDING TO BARe

MT dS SEPARATI

Te AS MOST PEOPLE | aNOw iM THE ORGANI ZATION
SOME OUTSTANDING STREWGIRS

AV UNUSUALLY STRONG PERSON tH TERNS OF THE REGUIBEWCNTS OF THE ORGANIZATION
7+ EMCELLED 8Y ONLY, A FEW IM SUITABILITY OR WORK Im THE ORGANIZATION

TS, ais IwDivicual BEFYER SUITED FOR BORK IW SOUE DtmER POSITION In TwE GPGIniZaTiON? fo] v#* Cg] we) 1F eh
xrcain routes °

Not necessarily better suited, but a position requiring the use of native Russian
speaking ability would also.be suitatle.

a : SECRET pene


SECRET a *

(hen Falted fa)

POR THE SUPERVISOR: Th # privileged communication to your sup
officiate concerning the potential of the enployer being

tated enployce, It ts reconmented that you read the entire report before completing any question.

to be completed only alter the employee hee been under your supereision FUR AT LEAST 90 DAYS. If tees than OO days,
hold’ and complete ofter the wdays hee clapeed. $f thin is the INITIAL RITURT on the employee, however, it MUST be
completed and fo the due date indicated in ites 8 of Section “E* below.

SECTION E- - 7
+ WAM (hast) (rivet) . a Seaviee oat!
‘TARASOFF Boris

5. OFF NCE/DIVIS10N/ ORANCH oF ASSIGAWENT jes orricim Posi TION map

00/FDD/USSR Branch 10 (Foreign Dec)
Toeanst [as eave wuPeat bot an OF i Finioe COvERCO By tuid wuPoRT {inclunive datee)

09 11 December 1958 21 November 1957 ~ 20 November 1958

vo. twee or meromt | [| vaste T veucrnn (Speed ly)

(check one) Gees wiastieewters

SECTION Fe 1 SERTIFICATION

fon THe ATER) | CERTIFY THAT Tada RUPURT OLPACSINYS wY OCST JUOGEMCNT OF TE VNOUVIOUAL BEING RATEO
THis OAC a. Heo on FF gree
Sec.

o.Nov5¢ ___|Rosamma 2. Doutoch £22er4uued2 (0s, Trek. Ghisf, Materials £-induy ry
aint

20 Nov 1958
SECTION G. ESTinaTE“OF POrEA in
1. POTENTIAL TO ASSUME GRCATE® RESPONS1O1e LTES

DIRECTIONS: Considering others of hie grade and type of
sponsibitities. Think in te (the kind of «
work.

FED wave Avy SiGnATUM

Tennent, tate the enployee's potential to aasune er
a levels in hie kind of

| ALREADY ABOVE THE LEVEL AT eiCH SATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE CAN BE EXPECTED
Las MEACHED Tmt MiuuLsT LEete aT ew iCw SATISFACTORY PERTORCANCE CAX BE CUPECTEO
I odaging Proceess, QUT MECLS wate Thue CTRAINED TO ASSUME GREATER AESPONS,
T READY FOR TRAINING 16 ASSUMING GREATER

PROBABLY ADJUST WUICELT 72 WORE RESPONSIMLE CUTIES WITMCUT FURTHER TRAINING
LOALREADY ASScMIMG MORE RESPONSIOILITICS THAN EXPECTED AY WIS PRESENT LEVEL

Le Eneertiowae PERSON And 12 OME OF THE BLE MMO SHOULD BE CONSICERED FOR CARLY ASSUMPTION OF HIGHER

LEVEL RESPoNstONLIT IES

7 SurcAviSORY POTENTIAL
DIRECTIONS: Anawer this question?” ile thie person the ability to be @ supervisor? Cx) Yes [—] NO TT your
answer is VES, indicate heles your opinion or guess of the level of supervisory ability this person will reach AFTER
‘oeing the numer of the deaceaptive rating below which comes closest
colin. If your rating 18 based on observing him supervise, note your
potential, note the rating im the “potential” colunn:

rating ia the “ectunl™ column.

FPOTEN TIAL tw twos Situation
Surenvison 1s THES a1No CF 51 TUATION
GL SUPERVISOR IN THIS KIND OF SETUATION

macnenve $: aniae Naan Gees
lewabese 3+ GELIEVE INDI YI OUAL

aetuae | Porewrvat

‘of various Binds) e™
_[auparesace)

ect rae sanne, 68 (Second Line supers

tno eevece (Exec

A oeare suncearearens sereyi nee a

ores (Specify)

rome xo. 45 (Part Il)or tows sso ast mice SECRET Potential te

eres ane oasoLere



14fono0

SECRET

(ahen Filed fa

STITT TPE eNTE OUTER OF ENTS PHO CATED FWPLOVEE MAS
28 a
Taaisis wtewine rorreTiShOUla have’ bees Fromoted nonths ego, but bes been prevented by
vck of a alot. His inherect intelligence should enable bir to learn rapidly any new
fields, processes, or folicieo required. He is patienti{n’becDiag ANUS people, and
goes out af bis vay to help those who come to him for assistance. He haa the
Sbility to garry responsibility without worrying about it.

MAH ROOM

FUTURE PLANS _SeRREREVEY
Sa OTMEw DEVELOPWENTAL EXPERIENCE PLANWEO FOR THE INDTVFOUAL

He 4s anxious to have a tour of duty overseas, and sirce he has not teen able to
advance in his present job bécauise of conditions beyond his control, his efforts
to fird such a position have not teen discouraged.

SECTION. Me

als FuTuRe ABST GNWENT:

SINSTE OTSER FACTORS] TNCUTOING PEAEOWAL CIRCUMSTANCES, TO OE TAKEN 1NT9 ACCOUNT IN m

“After a single tour of overseas duty, which he will not accért unless his wife
can acconpany him without losing her GIA status, he would like. to settle dow

permanently in the U.S. :

DESCRIPTION OF INDIVIOUAL
i te describing the individual as you see him on the job. Interpret
ssc statements. that apply in toce degree to most people. To
a veategory. 7 Read each statecent and insert in the box the
f opplics to the person covered by this report.

‘On ths
tement
beat t

the left of
category qumber sbich ella chow much the statem

wave ROT OBSERVED THI#) HENCE CAN GIVE NO OPINION AS TO HOW THE DESCRIPTION APPLIES TO THE

THE INDIVIDUAL YO THE LEAST POSSIOLE DEGREE
tmOIveoUAL TO A LiMiTED DEGREE

IeolviDUAL TO AN AVERAGE DEGREE
INDIVIDUAL TO AN ABOVE AVERAGE OLGREE ~
TmolviDgAL YO AN OUTSTANDING DEGREE

STATEMENT

STATOUtRT

Wis wee ten svanoaeos oF

fs. snows onvermacery

Hao noeres nes

26. 42 seeverry comscraus

a SECRET


¢ (then Felted tod

: ; SECRET

—
FITNESS REPORT {Part I) PERFORM! NCE

a IeSTRUCTIONS a
TaD Conast Gurrent instewtions for completing (his Ferert

FOR TIS ADINISTRATIVE OFF

FOR TE SUPERVISOR: This repo!
th

nate shere he!
Strengths and weakaes
fons specified in Regul:
any westion. If thes

Tefaoone! nn Later than 39 days after the

je designed to help you exrress your evaluation cf sour subordingte oad te teeneait
Titeaste., Organigation policy rersires thet you int

‘port can help. you prepare for a discussion »i

2 November XE: __]

AL Posie Tee

reign Docums=s Ofti

dates)

2) November 1956-20 Spvexder-1957.—1
Tp arecen (Saecehy)

it

ISSR.
pai stone? Due Iw OF

December.

Ht CERTIFICATION
Sard we aaT CT was CAD wa wT AS Sey FOE

SECTION
1, oom Tat Aat
e

eres
oles cry atrecene te

ve ee fea

cacee ¢Sase bly)

3 tats bate STIRS OF PRINTED WINE BOS TVENATORE OF SUPERVISOR [S. SPERSISSATS OFFEGH AL THTCE

Al chief, Industrial. See!

eee HES PERVESOR! SR ANY OUNER INT

A EAGT.
2 Noy_ 57. | Rosamund. E,-Deutach be2a4e: Cease
Fae aE Ee Era agra guinea usDEnatanciNe OF fHtE AERORT:

Pested Pos. Cortrol___

Te relisted in the sbove sectace:

Tecetily that any subs tent

ay ss pate

15 Now 1957
section.
Tat ine tw Onennt Penreevance OF OUTIES,

GIEFCTIONS: Conesde? GLY the productivity and effect
TERT ION: cone he cating periods, Compare hin (RLY with others doing siriles srk 2) #
nis duticn dor tOks other than promuctivity will be taken inte Account Tater on Sextion T

ae

Fated hax peelorned
lar feel of respon

418 sycowrerenr.

snot
or we MAS HAD SPECIFIC BoyZAnce Oe

enrony DUTIES ancuvaTELy:
SECpATE tm PEAFORWANCE: ALTH
nuh RCSPONSUSILETEES:

onus WOST OF HIS CUTIES ACCEAT:

imc. AE OFTEN FANS TC

SECASIONMLLY REVEALS SO¥T AHEM OF SEAANESS:

THe Sumter sem,

COUNTS:

tore ws. yg (Part 1) serene cuss oven SECRET Performance m

now's
u J ane DesoLETe



SECRET

(thee Fatted try

cating peetod.

specific duty.
SiLL alonys be rated on @ eprcatic duty (do net cate ae supervisors thoes

+ the individuer deine eateHey BtnfPs ry PHAGE the

If s0, fate them on different

ine duty at @

Too individuals

duties
1. Be apecific. Franples of the kind of duties that might he rated are:
ORAL BRIEFING nas ano uses anea exostepce MAIL RBOM-crs inrRaROGATIONS
civive LECTURES DEVELOPS NF® PROGRAUS PREPARES. SUMUARTES
CONTUCTING SEMINARS ANALYZES ISQUSTRIAL REPORTS TRAVSLATES. GERWAN
SRITING TECHNICAL REPORTS WAMAGES FILES DERRIEFING SuURCES
CONDUCTING BXTERWAL LIAISON’ OPERATES RADIO KEEPS BOOKS
PING COORDINATES SIH OTWER OFFICES DRIVES TRUCK
SRITES RPQLATIONS. MAINTAINS ALB CONDITIONING
PREPARES CORRESPONDENCE evs
TE supervisor considers it alviaable, e,4.+

TAKING DICTATION
SIND

may be broken down even fur:
the case of m radio opera!

Cor aust tia Ovlv Iw AN OUTSTANOING MAWeC®
AD ti VURY FEM INDIVIDUALS HOLOIWG SHUT

TNCOUPETEN? tm fue PERFORMANCE OF THIS OUTY .
paetey ADEQUATE Im THF, PCRFOAUANCE OF THIS!
7 ‘i 3008
FORUS THIS OUTY ACCEPTABLY 7+ EFCELS ANYONE 1} KNOW IN THE PERFORMANCE OF

Nok COMPETENT WANNER. Pas oute

incpericreve bore

Analyzes Soviet documents and selects | *""
intelligence information 5

7
Compiles intelligence reports

weecreie bute wo.

Serves as consultant on linguistic
matters

Tee OEScaiPTVOn_OF waNntA OF JOB FE
DIPECTIWS,, Street sterogtha nad weekneeses, particularly those shuch alicct development on present ic
‘Minor difficulties with English usage do not preven from turning out reports
which are concise and to the point. Ideas are in general clearly formulated, althougs
there are occasional instances of inexactness of expression, Because of his native
fecility in the Russian language, on the other hand, he ia frequently consulted on
all levels throughout the branch on matters tnvolving interpretation of the foreign
text. He is not an eager beaver, and becatise of his language fluency can accomplish
es much as others in less time and with less effort. Frobably works at full capacity
only under pressure, and for this reason some of his bezt contributions have been on
special projects with target dates, several of which have covered material outside
his field of responsibility. His disposition is generally patient, stable, and

SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JOB In ORGANI ZATION San
edevsdval,.. productivity, conduct in
ciand how he fits in with your te

IPLCTIONS: bere everything you know about the

fo 2kD eNoeN omar} ROM NOM

ity As wost Pore

catiee 5 S0Wl GuFSTANOING

ceEn G PERSON tm TheUS OF Tue RCQUIREWENTS CF THE ORGANIZATION
TL ARCEREED BY ONLY A FER IN SUITABILITY FOR @ORR IN THE ORGAN: TATION

rere ‘pertee Bite
Kithougi" present performance is entirely satisfactory, he ia not in a position here
to utilise fully his Russian langusge speaking facility.

: : - SECRET s


fit SECRET .
(then Fetled fey pasetateter:
3 ny. POTEN.IAL ]

SigpussSussHTSETETOMnypussiqantpea TRUCTIONS
Te corvent instructions for completing thie 4p

TOR TIE AININISTRATIVE OFFICER: Consul

ation to your supervisor, and te anprce tial
at the enplesee Being fated. Ut is MIT te

POR TH, SUPERVISOR: THe ceport da a privileged communte:

rin ind personnel officials concerning the potential

Fated employee. Tt is recommended that you F: MMpert before completing any aurstyeds

toh Tefed only after. the employee has been under treet tian FUR AT LEAST 90 PAYS. {teas then co eye,
TRE INITIAL RLFVKT on the employee. how ie MusT be

Men acct Tommlete atter theodstays has claosed. Tf th
Ean ae a Later thn S0inyt after the due date inbécated [9 ote of Section, “EN below.

TGeweeat
2. pave oF brat

2 November_1908

oar Tiow THE

ris.

/GNNENT

0/rpp/USSR Branch ____
11 Decenber 1957___

To. tyec oF REPORT
(Check one) or

y Centivy twar THis #EPORT AI
Trib be FATTO Fieiees
oseanna £. devtach Lik siwais keesrrot

ROE eee cacyiLeLD Tass MUPORT AND NOTED ANE O18
GS [ee ove icine THE ST MEV

WHieraL WHE,

“aio STONATURE OF BL PERE ISO

Teco GR PAINTED WANE AND BY

GREATER REST ONS 10

thers of his grade
in terme of the kind of respon:

greater
hie kind of

arnt, gate the employee's potential to
TTity encountered at the various Levels in

syuncaoy anove TE LEVEL AF mnrcn saresractony puaroraanct CAN 2 OCT S
LET nae AGNES T CEVTL. AT mulCH SATLATACTORY PERE SONINEE C28 Ot exPecteD
As REACHED THE MOT EEDS MORE Trut OHPORE WE Can OC TeAsNtD fo ASSUME GREATER RESPONS!
cee eee andewine cay Tew MCSPONSIMICS TIES

NEAOY on pee Tovust auveeuy fo wont ACSroNsiOge SUTCES 81200) ASIC TRAINENS.
A Raa Ae UDRE AESPONS TALI TIED foam CNPECTED AT 818 CReS0eE OES

ARO Ae mecason aH 14 ONE GF THE FER WHO SmouLD OE CONSIDENLD ron

Cevee Resromsieiurties:

kaRuy ASSUMPTION OF MEONER

To Supcavis0RY POTENTEAL
err P This. person

DIRECTIONS: _Anawer thi

saeecr is YES; Indicate below your oF or guess of the Level of ur
SUITAHLE TRAINING, Indicate your opinion the number of the descriptive
ae ipresaing your opinion in the approp: ie Sue rating 12 based on observing Ria suvcey
Coe Tatthe Saetual® column: Ef based on epinton of hit eeueatial, note the rating in the ‘potenti

Ga aniiiay to be wupreviaor? ORT Yes CT Ne 1 zone
Sbitsty thee person wilt teach AFTFR
felse which cones closeat
en note your
columt.

7 WAVE NO) aia guPeavigauy POTENTIAL iy THES S
H t peueve Me otee A we ae SUPERVISaR 1 THIS
2b RELIEVE WOULD eA MENT mage SUPCRY'SOR 1S THIS 41ND OF SUTUATISS
toeuieve Tee taone SUPERVISCE IN FAIS S1TUATION

DEScRinTive
war

POTENTIAL orscae
Techeaevand or pia esvional

{Firat line

Cee Cheah de

povicw (Executive level)

SUPTACTS Previous cDitiows
form so. YS (Part PL) or romms 45 any 458 meron
vores 48 don ommtatte

SECRET Potential



SECRET

(then Peled te

TNETERTC TSE GFFRSETWATE RN OF wORTRE TRE SATO TAFLONTE O43 OEM OSCAR PTRE BE Be ny

6.

4 COUUINTS. COREL ENING POTENTIAL

Because of his innate capacity I would judge-that ofter ge adjustments, ard
with application, he will alvays be able to meet tho reqliitddentd 8§  Bgsyen .
aituation, His day to day activities wil) not alwaya uive evidence 8

versatility, and it may sometimes come as a surprise.
MAIL ROOM

FUTURE PLANS,

‘SECTION M. f
ove touAL

NING O€ OTHER ORVALOPWENTAL CAPURIENCE PLANN

He 4s now getting teaching experience by teaching one class in Basic Russian ant
another in Russian Conversation.

ar WOTE OTHER FACTORS. INCLUDING PERZONAL CIMCUNSTANCES, TO BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IN INOIVIOUAL"S FUTURE ASST GAUENTS

Because of his age, he would like to have a tour of overseas service within the next
two or threo years, before ho settles down here to a permanent assignment.

DESCRIPTION OF InOIviOUAL

@ you ace hia on the job. Interpret

to most perple, To
ert in the box the
we person covered by this report.

o lee’ the healing “catexory.
sfeatesory nuader which Beat tells how much the statement appl
Ts WAVE NOT OBSERVED THIS: HENCE CAN GIVE MO OPINION AS TO mOW THE DESCRIPTION APPLIES TO THe]
DIVIOUAL,

1. APPLIES TO THE IWOIVIOUAL TO THC LEAST PossrOLE OLaREE

2S APPLIES To ImoIW:OUAL TO A Liwiteo OEGREE

3. APPLIES TO INOIVIQUAL TO aN AVERAGE OFGAEE

42 AMPULES TO INDIVIDUAL TO AN ABOVE AVERAGE DEGREE

SL APPLEES To IMDIVIOUAL TO AN OUTSTANDING DEGREE
STATONENT

STaveueny ‘stato

SECRET


coe eee SECRET j L~
i 7

led tm)

4

Ting this weport. 7
your subordinate sod

jor com

FOR Tie ADIINTSTRATIVE OFFICER: Consult currant tn
eport In designed t0 Rein’ you express your evetuetion of

upervisor ‘end senior officials. ization policy Feauires thet yeu info
Meith you. Cocpletion of the report fo discussion with hist
Strengtha and weaknes Te ie etao Segenieation policy tenort to the explores,
rene a tlomt aneett hed an Regutetion 20-370, 18 ba) teconmendad thu fore Before coontet ing
Lovet ycation. If this, ia the dnatial tenort en the ronteree, wd forwarded to the Office of
Jersey na hater than 30 inys after the state indicatet i it

3

7 “qeiditey i. bare ov wate eta ato

‘ante > a
TARASOFF Borie“ ._De v
STTECTBIi Siow Heaven OF TEST EMENT Bea FATT HE

__00/FDD/USSR Branch Foreign Documents Cfficer
DATE ACPORT 01 ce AN WIS REPORT (Inclunsve datee),

11 Bec 1956

Tyre oF wePORT x [ne
(check one) [ Tssyess Cees atomwes T= eerecree

‘SECTION 8. 7 _SERTIFYCATION
Tom_ta WATER) T's REPORT re Taser oCtN Snoey FO TNE

STATEMENTS:

rary [an fraee eave
June 56 - 20 Nov 56

worwibuAL RATED.

De entCn (4) APPROPR

vieers wy owe

Tart bergan EFCEETS Tae couDindD oFsMtGNs OFS
Vpeevney SocyhGANs TORR, -

aneabee 89 THAT a RROOS OnE

7 ee ee SHAS oF PRINTED IME BD FVTNTERE 7
Dec 56 Rosamund S/ Deutsch’ 74 sete CG (2 cachet, NY IR
A aR WN TORTI AL DU VEREAEL OF OPIN wv Tm THE FOFERCTSOR,

See ettnan unoeastanping OF Tw!s REPORT.

7 fan tae weviewng
Fanaa)

. . BY Gu DATE
Ile.

E Posted Pos, Control 4.2
} . Reviewed by PUD” L24/
eT Feareeels ales
[egued_ in the above afctions

OPFIEVAL TITLE OF RENIERING OFFICIAL

Chief, USSR Branch

G

Tcertliy thet aay substantial difference of opinion with the supceyiter it rel

eS ae PAINTED Nae NOH SPAS POV CRS |
AIS Bicdefeldt tLe
JOB PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

ny aus ore

10 Dec 56
SECTION Gs
1 WATING OW GEWERSL PEAFORWANCE OF OUT!ES

GipRCTIONS: “Conaider GLY the productivity and eCfectivensss sith
OPTS cong. the rating petiede Conpare hia CNLY with otners sol
nee tiige, Factofa ather thsa productivity will be taken into eccount

Teh the Individual Being tated hes performed
Risilar work at a digiler Level of respons
later in Section D.

toe Does WoT PERFORM DUTIES ADEQUATELY: NE 1S. iNCOWPETENT: :
Ty] Es MaReey AOESUATE pm rearoneact: WTibbce HE MA HAD SPECIFIG GUIOANCE OR TRAINING, ME CFTEN FAILS TO
Caney OUT RESPORSIBILITIRS. .
CA OUT eres eee ieles AECUPTAOLY: SCCABIONALLY REVEALS SOME ARER OF GEAANESS-
PEbroews DuTicS iy A COMPETENT, EFFECTIVE MANNER:
PERFORMS, UT AS CE, Ncamares Sut wany OF MUS RESPONSEBILITIES EACETT ONAN TALES Oa
eee eeeeemeeyieS aw sucm Ay OUTSTANDING WANNER THAT WETS CQUALLED 8YF6* Sbeggyrtaons noes te

THE SUPERVISOR. a

we

en

toreno yB fPart 1) ovens inoue mice SECRET

nov
hid ‘ARE OBSOLETE.

Performance”

ae

eee


a SECRET

(then Filled tn

Te eatewes ON P

DIRECTIONS:
ae State in the spaces Selow up, to

Tomamiey oF sreciyre BUTIeS

etgea ge
ot the sore tnportent SPECIFIC duties pestered Ua kEeanygyics Perio

bn te ae Mea farats Iie not inclute minor oF unimpodtant Hut lee,
portant Carats fe nt incl ing OWLY effectivencas in naytornance of thin s5ecitie Sty
SCiltty to supeevine will ofsaye be tated weieiedpipe pynet cere ae eure
crétery only) chy It
eee eel oasible, the individual being rated with others Pe BDA MG pmce duty at
ent

teaponsibility.
Trapeneibul eT oy cithe aay be performing different duties, If so,, rate then on aut

- Franptes of the kind of duties that wight be rated fe: Man Rooy,
‘onal. oa/201NG 3. 40D USES AREA KNOWL EDOE conoce Irenroaarias
fees Giving cecruess DEVELOPS NEW PROGRINS Peeranes Suuwant &S
Givovcrine SEMLeaRS , GRALYCES INDUSTRIAL AEPORTS TEAVSLATES GHRWAN
TING YROUNICAL. REPORTS WANAGES FILES densi trina SOURCES
cesecme EETEEVAL LtAJSON OPERATES RADIO teers, BOOKS
trina eee ATWATES of me OTWER OFPICES DRIVES TRUCK
Fanta. preraridw Serres, REGULATIONS SMiwrains ATR CONDE TIONING
SUPERVISING PREPARES. CORRESPONDENCE TVALUATES STOMIFICANCE CF DATA
fs For one Jobsudetleniney be Broken down even further Th aupervizor considers 18 aivisebice ¢- + ‘Cosbined key’

eof @ radio .

and phone operation, a the

Taamcoupi rent iw tee PeAroRwaNce OF THIS OUTY To pEnunas tas QUTY Im AN OUTSTANDING WANNER
Ll oneecy ADEQUATE IN THE PERFORUANCE OF THIS Foun tm VERY PE INDIVIOUALS HOLDING SIMI+
pescarerive purr. kan 3005
RATING a+ PERpoows THIS OUTY ACCEPTASLY 7 ERCELS, ANYONE 1 KNOW IN THE PERFORMANCE OF
NuNote UL Pampones Toes QUTY IN A COUPE TENT MANNER nars outy
Slopterones turd outy IN SUCH A FINE MANNER :

\ PoP 0 fin neon wae
SSE PRE ES Tn MATION Tasting ereeisve vote 96: =
Fron Soviet documents nop ‘ wows

nugpen

j
id recive owt 80. 2 compiles technical a u NGpereciene Duly BO. ® RATING
1 | antetigence reports nogee mene
|
8 corer) caraa[wacne bore oe sara
maint files of uyore 7
** |nachine models ‘and Hanes mye aa
A ST NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF Joo PERFORWANCE FE ae
nicroNs: ce SE Pie NUD Gans aha Weak estates by "aatelinde capes
ref ost ‘enpuslh ts va iasdink® gavacy
Ata tn Sng, Sapught eg deg notrate ne own concicereble

i
bam

Shek tts he has not yer PeecKeround in b:

ASREY MEAGHER Lees sg ntorygt hon At ka noe weeds techntsa verge Rie”

He nae A a8e potted, concise, and, excep F

ot
seed indeed. S’perstetence pod application, he was
GRIN Se aN Tor oeties oat ran cient fos BBB, eee enanyet nee a
hes done an gaygetingdy go0g, Job under the most
which yay ge gireustances. He needs to develop edineHafarioh of varied research
methods, but thia will te easier as he becomes more familiar with the materiale and
RE blems. with which he has to ceal. His native Russian fluency is a decided asset.

lems With operative, ami easy to wrk with.

SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JOB 1” ORGANIZATION

vidual... .productivity, conduct ia the ie!
th your teem. Com

‘SECTION 0.

Into account here everything
aeice or habite.
J eork of about the same level,
ent SHOULD @C SEPARATED
ee alco wor wave ACCEPTED WIM If 1 HAD KNOWN MHAT 1 KNOW NOR
cree etow AVERAGE OUT HLTH NO WEAKNESSES SUFFICIENTLY OUTSTANOING 12 FAR’

Rant nt SEPARATION
cr THE SAE Sur TABLE TY &
1 oepime eurLovee «HAS SOML OUTSTANDING STRENGTHS
coenaee eee pragma PERSON IM TEBMS OF THE RCQUINEMENTS OF UE oncansZATLON
Fett ay omy A FEW UM SUITABILITY FOR WORK 1m THE ORGAN! TATION

TE aie Faoiyioume weTTER sory Souk OER POR Vigw tw THe OnGANIzATIOns — CR) vee Co] see 17 VES
Heth RIGS Ctdve Russian fluency might be better utilized in sone othen ‘type

lite mettien, although his performance on his present Job 49 entirely
Gi satisfectorye i

3 MOST PEOPLE {KNOW IM THE ORGANIZATION

WaATING
NuMOER

SECRET


SECRET

mt * gasen! Fitted Toy

THSTRUCTIONS
mit instructions

‘canple ting thi

J to appropeiate career ma

a privileged conmunication to your supervisor.

nine the potential of the eaplayer bring ¢ate: NOT to be shown Co

dade cance rtne we eyitae entice report tetare comleting any aueation, This rene’ te
Teac aitt Eavcteen under your auneevision FE AT LEAST 90 DAYS. Tf t
Ree teseets TE thie ia the INITIAL RESORT on the employees hos

Aadays after the due dnte indicated in item 8 of Section

i. POR TE SUERVIEOR: This
ment amt personnel of

SECTION E = ii
err (heat (rire)

_TARASOFF___ Boris

TTRTETEE NiWAs 1 0n/ muaNin OF ASSIGNMENT

o0/EDo/SR owt az

Dae mueou? Out in OP

SD-0D.

ovr beak
foreign Documents Officer

scat (Ticiaatve aatoo)

So Cortato ty furs mire
wractay (Specify)
i

June 1956 = 20 Nov 56
TTiberevars wy aust jobunaint of Yue iworviouAl ote

a TPiu On PuIntis WAVE Dy FhGw ees SUPERVISOR'S OFFICHAL TITLE

amund_B, Deutsch,by :
“Branth

eer

Tris bate
+. 10.Dec 1956

SECTION G. zi
1, POLENTIAL {0 ANUME GREATER RESPONS!

catccgate the employee's potentiol 1
the various Levels

yome greater
his kind of

TERECTIIWS. Considreing others of bis arate and
ee rent iink in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at

AuRtAoy ABOVE THE LEVEL AT wore SATISFACFORY AEH OMMANCE CAN OE EXPECTED
ae eee tue MICKEST CEVEC AT wstcn SATISFACTORY PLUFouuANCE CAM OC EXCECTED

aK seer aeesae Trak BEFORE HE CaN DE THAINED £0 ASSUME GREATER MESPONSIOILITIES
meapy ror SSowine GSC ATER RESPOUSORIL I TIES

MON re sdee novus serenet TS. MONE ACSPONSI OC DUTIES #éTHDUT FURINER TRAINING
FL DEORE nc woe AESPOMEIDTUITRES Tam EUPECTEO AT w1s PRESENT LENCE

ALR AY assuinG wOee Ena a gut OF THE FC@ an0 smovLD OE CONSIDERED FOR Lamy AgsuMrioN OF WIGNER

Levee RESPONSHerLETIES

Gurtayi sony POTENTIAL

SCTIGNS: Anvere thie question: Hea this pe: Cy ves Cay Nett your
Teeter eae hetow your opinion pr guess of the tevel of superyisnry aDithty. 16) be tat TI ceach AFTER!
Cee nice ace out ominien ty. placing the aber of te deacriptive fering Brios onlay, gonee closest
- Meee. apiaion inthe appropriate colums. Tf your cating ta hieeel ov obesry ine tin orale note your

ere ttne tectual” column. Ef based on onanion of his potentiel, note the cating 68 the “potential” column.

wis sutavisany POTESTIAL |

Gartive @ 7 WAVE OOF IMION ON
papeeierss Mecieve INDIVIDUAL OULD BE A OCA SUPLRYISOF
DORE AN AVERAGE SUPER!

arms 31 teeitwe tnra rosa
titteve tmorvrouae sthove sure
seacnirtive

tas SITUATION

a TH13 KIND OF 51 TUATLON
som in THIS RIND OF SUTUATION
SOR tw Tats 54 TUATION

wetoat

tee saase 08 (Second Cine aupervisors)

povecy (Executive t

or tae opposene ate

}Por~the reasons — ey CORSA St pele Reports Tt tee tte s
ote Eay “ee PPESs ay make a fair estimate o: g supervisory
sercnts Faroe PS SECRET

romaeo, 45 (Part Ht) 2, roms es ase a mice

Potential


SECREL

Laken badted bm,

city WaT mew NOT 9 DUM

Tr irrrortente wuwur® CF MONTHS FHL BATT

4 month

poreuti at

reflected in his next evaluation.

T fect sx vory definitely that Mr. Tarasoff's overall petentilitd hreygreater
than he hao had an opportunity to show thue far, This lt deubtreas tA 56

may Rooy

Dev orviv aL OFF

his madimn capacity ther. He will soon be enrolled in the I.0.C.

a Ge ibns, IweLubINT PeMSONAL

REVIEWING OFFICIAL'S COMMENTS: I do not ti
as indicated in Sec. I, below. I do not know hin well enough to disa;

oe the ratings, but Z would rate hin "4" on itena 7, 15 and 29, at 1
crobtruaive, modest, cooperative. Have seen few indieations 0:

Since Mr. Ts dhas been on duty such a short tine, present plans are simply.
to give him further training in his present job and to allow him to develop to

ai aay TaoTWTOUAL™S FUTURE ASSIGNMENTS

; Hig native Russian fluency should be taken into account.

tink he so hoarly average in all respects
gree with most of
east. Quiet,

ff initiative, but such

incapable of

une te be expected while hg is learaing a new Job; no reason to assume
initiative, T.Blolefeldt Lb,

to most people.
the box the

mot OOSERVED THI
DAvEDUAL
MePLies 70 HE INOLWIOUAL TO THe
Touat Yo A LiMiTED ofa!
TO Ay AVEBAGE DEGACE
ck OCGAEE
net

© oconee

SECRET



MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

THROUGH : CSPS
CCS/ NOC
Office of Security
CI Staff

SUBJECT : Summary of Agency Employment -

Mr. Boris D, Tarasoff.

1, -Mr,. Boris D. Tarasoff, a Translator/Transcriber
with the Agency since February 1956, will retire effective
30 November 1970. Your approval is requested for him to
use the attached employment history.

2." For your information, we have been advised by the
Mexico City Station that once Mr. Tarasoff has retired to
Guadalajara, Mexico, except for establishing new social
relationships, he will probably not be asked to go into
any detail about his past cover jobs that would require
anyone to call upon these firms for backstopping confirma~
tion. In the event he should become involved in any post-
retirement activities that might require checking into his
past, Mr. Tarasoff will contact Headquarters for instruc~
tions,

Richaya OY wright
Chief, WHSupport

Attachment:
Employment Resume

SECRET f°!



: ; oy SECRET mn

SUBJECT: Summary of Agency Employment, -
Mr. Boris D. Tarasoff,

CONCUR
Ma ike Fo
‘7CSPS Date

i Ly cies es Pin 2e
wd Factor i al i uate

pr Staff Date

SECRET |



Conse
Angberi, ©
Jated water

roat of the
ma technics: 5
ary materic®. Sra .op for tect food
AlB0, eh es tno Dopte of
XT spent Live |

I
Soviet ded gations fat 325.00 por dion plus bxponsed«

weeks with exch of then.

» to Hexico 4 ta my. wife and

of tho USA axx ant to Look
that could eal wo fin-

ng this poriod cans from
inelew sn Clevolend, Onto,
wor of an anusonent
Imad invested sore

1963-1970: After Leaving USIPRS 1 ea
chiléren to avoid tho weather extroras
into possivilities of profi lo investrents
ancislly efter bY rebire: Hy incor cur
amuitios sd tls woncys Lent to ry brotin

who is @ successful Foal estato men snd t
machin s business (CadsLlac Hustc Coe) in shich

oney previously. + sats

Ratios Piss, loon tht, Bo

ren sOrr 7 +



fecaultetctt ws

1956-1959: I worked for various establishaents in Washington,
D.c., as a translator from Ru ian into English, such as the
Library of Congress, and various other translating firms, which ©
abound in Washington, with a salary varying in accordance with
the output of translated material, from $5Q0,00 to 1,000.00 per
month.

1959-1963: I was employed by USJPRS. Bureau of Standards, Dept.

of Coamerce, Washington, D.C. ~ 1 worked as an analyst and trans~
Gator, at homé most of the time, translating and analyzing articles
thes newspapers and technical magazines. T was paid $8.00 for
7,000 words for ordinary material, $10.00 for technical and $12.00
for the scientific subjects. Also, I was utilized by the Dept. of
State to be an interpreter for two Soviet delegations at $25.00

per diem plus: expenses. I spent five weeks with cach of them.

1963-1970: After: leaving USJPRS T came to Mexico with my wife
and children to avoid the weather extremes of the USA and to look
into possibilities of profitable investments that could aid me
financially after my retirement. ly incone during this period
cane from annuities and the moneys lent to my brother-in-law

in Cleveland, Ohio, who is a successful real-estate man and the
owner of an amusement machines business (Cadillac Music Co.) in
which I had invested some money previously.


. f
mp

+ a 7

ELECTION, DECLINATION, OR WAIVER IMPORTANT
AGENCY INSTRUCTIONS

‘OF LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE '
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM. ON BACK OF ORIGINAL

TO COMPLETE THIS FORM—

© Rand the back of the “Duplicate” carefully before you fill in the form.
‘+ Fittin BOTH COPIES of the form. Type or use ink.
> Denotdetach any part.

1 FOLLOW THESE GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS:

FILL IN. THE IDENTIFYING INI

FORMATION BELOW (please print or type):
gare srarn cnc dy. your) 1 SOGIL SECURITY NUMBER

|

A

{Dann PAC me

ee
LOCATION (City. State, Z1P Code)

3 MARK AN “X' IN ONE OF THE BOXES BELOW (do NOT mark more than one):
ELECTION: OF OPTIONAL (IN ADDITION TO REGULAR) INSURANCE

it’ you ene - elect the $10,000 additional optional insurance and authorize the required dequctcas
‘WANT BOTH from ty salary. compensation, or annuity ta pay the full cost of the optional insurance.
optional and Ys optional wnsurance #3 in addition to my regular insurance,

reguiat * (a)

insurance
Mark bere — DECLINATION OF OPTIONAL (BUT NOT REGULAR) INSURANCE

if you ~ 4 dectine the $10,000 additions! optional insurance. 1 understand that | cannot elect 2p
DO NOT WANT Oe dence I year after the effective date of this declination and unless
OPTIONAL but WS present satisfactory medical evidence

setter att am cindor nge 50 an :
; PO ae ee gular naurance i ot atectes by tis decline
segulart (8) onl optional msurance.

insurance

WAIVER OF LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE

Mark bece Sere |
1 gesite not to be insured and 1 waive coverago under the Federal Employees Group Life
Nar in:

it you

WANT NEITHER Insurance Program. | understand that Lcannct cance.

reguiar ror Insurance oot teast 1 year atter the effective date of this waiver and unjess at the Lore
options! srranee er Insurance | ant under age SO and present satistactory medica exdene

TE) surability, "understand also that 1 cannot now of later have the $10,000 additional
insurance Optional insurance unless | have the regular insurance.

4 SIGN AND DATE. IF YOU MARKED BOX “A” OR " FOR EMPLOYING OFFIC

COMPLETE THE “STATISTICAL STU! THEN RETURN f- —-—— sii econing Gn slam)
THE ENTIRE FORM TO YOUR EMPLOYING OFFICE. sntzthd id

RAE (do wot print)

“See Tale of Etective Dates on Bach

ORIGINAL COPY—Retain in Official Personnel Folder simone fom te, TT
fon ase ont watt Aged 14, 1968

Tett

4 Abrary (Ve :



4 :
ra i :
ADAINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE UNLY

i 8 JUN 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT : Retirement Planning

i
1, The established policy of the Agency favors early retirement of
its employees who, as you know, are normally expected to retire when
they become eligible for a full annuity. The prospect of retirement
deserves serious thought and planning, and you should therefore know
that you will be eligible for retirement, according to our records,
during November, 1970,

2, Planning ahead.can bring about, with each passing year, definite
progress taward.your.retirement goals. The Agency is anxious to assist
you in planning for your retirement. It is even more important, as an
employee, ‘that you begin now to plan for this occasion,

3. You déserve to know as much as possible about the general subject
of retirernent and more specifically about the retirement policy itself,
your annuity, life and health insurance protection, opportunities for other
employment, Social Security benefits, and educational materials available
‘on the subject. The Agency feels that this type of information and advisory
service should be made available to you at least five years prior to the date

of your eligibility.
4. You are requested to call the Executive Secretary of the Board,

Mr. Howard G. Phillips, on extension 6872 to arrange an appropriate time
to discuss any plans you may have aad benefits available to you upon

retirement.

6. Fntllips

Ts} 8

Lawrence R. Houston
Chairman
Agency Retirement Board

AD*INISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY


Hat He by ete

252.

FIELD REASSIGNMENT QUESTIONNAIRE
DOHOT COMPLETE FOR WEADGUARTERS USE ONLY

Nant of terover (wee peswdo only 17 S4)[oateC fron item Scf]mawt OF BUPLAVISOR (true) foate (from itee S-3)
i. bert Manel) ~ 22 96:

ACCEIVED GY CARECe SuAvICE:

UMMT-4961
To BE COMPLETED BY DPLOVEE
rut [ 4. station oF

Jeng Of fies a

vice] 9. vour cuament Position,
ren | aRD i

3. caver von
CURRENT covER

Intell Officer Mexico D.F. Mexico
Gs-11 mil
Tar UATE GF FED aABIVaL [evs BE GUESTED OATE OF ] Sev EAPECIED OATe OF FinST] Oo, OLSIATD DATE TO ACPORT TO OUTY
tm Preto oevantune cutensin Al wo artte Lowe
5 June 1963 5-6 Dec, 1965 "| 13 Deo 1965 15 Jan, 1966

7. NUMBER AND AGES OF OCPEMDEMTS #mO WILL TRAWER WITH YOU)

Wife = 43
8on = 17
Ta piatonat CvaCUUSTINCES Toa? GOULD BE CONSIDERTO tw DETERMINING WERT
ore

are no health or other personal circumstances perventing a return to post
or assignment to another foreign post, However two factors, of operational and
Personal nature, should be considered: Subject and family have already initiated
and are in the process of completing the relatively complicated procedure of legaliz:
thotr continued residency in Mexico as "rentiatas” (retired persons). Secondly, Subjept's
gon! 'a secondary school education 1s being completed ‘in Mexico, Transfer to another
+ rOrE Could negatively aliact- the .c thon-oF/ hee “@eebndary schooling,

ee eee seat corse quest ionnatce in accordance Sun CoP Fa

SSTONMENTY

7 1, Translation and transcription of Soviet technical product,

2. Preparation of characterization and assesament studies of the local Soviet
complement. nara ne

vat:
T TAAINING YOU BELIEVE YOU SHOULD WAVE DURING Tut WENT SEVERAL YEARS

If returned to post for a second tour, continuation of Spanish language
instruction,

w

Ferveeus SECRET

oH


SECRET

Th patearnce EetchUEne

TRY FaSw Twat tROVEATED.

Tuy tat Fart oF wOwe VOU 8
Your cworce

Papove. IF vou Ha¥E WORE

Vie. inDicaTe 17 vou OLSIRE TO EATENO vouR CUNATAT TOUR Oy EMICKIMG IW APPR
Fon MEX MCGULAR ASSISWMENT DY INSERTING H. 2. 83 (lor Tat, 2nd, and Je:
COMPLETE ALL ALTERNATE CHOICES AND OPTIONS IW ALL CASES CvEm THOUGH YOU ARE REQUESTING ar CATEMS

Tour

x OF voUR

txreno tour

INDICATE YOUR CHOICE OF DIVISION, STAFF OR orrice,

DRD CHOKE

Cf ssttenr to woares roe 4 rou oF oury:

tot corer, Ano CHOICE

we sponte TogpRiHR F2ELe ETATION. re reateytuer gar Ceocaanune cn Omran pa oe
[D) ‘ecrury vo wy cunnenr starion (PLease note that planned departure is Deo 65, due
to fector that gon finishes his school yeur on 30 Nov 65.) i

Cont Ett LO STAT

PAEFLRENCE FOR NEAT ASSIONWENT.

The Station recommenda and urges that Headquarters approve Subject's return

to Station, His performance meets every Statica requirement, For Subjeot's work,
continuity 1s essential to obtain maximum effective product. :

(PERTENCE AND PAF ORWANCE OF THe TMPLOWEE ARO

a "TO BE COMPLETED BY APPROPRI ATE HEADQUARTERS OFFICE

Tw CONStOC#ATION OF Tut EXPERIENCE AND PERFORMANCE Of THE CUPLOVEC, Wis PREFTRERCE FOR NEXT ASSICHUENT,
Ano THE STAFFING REQUIREMENTS OF YOUR COMPONENT, INDICATE YOUR COMPOMENT"S RECOMMENDATION FOR MIS NEXT

AESNGHWENT AND TRAD
Wi Division recommends that FEINGLASS' tour of-duty in
Mexico City be extended until December 1965 as requested in section
6B, and that he return for a second tour of duty ts home

leave. 2
RG pore ee
rire CAMPERS s1cstTit ROBERT D._CASUMAN ____

DATE

FoR SE GY CAREER SERVICE

T aPrRoweo AsBicMMENTS
Approved extension to end of 1965 followed by home leave and second tour
HHAS = SoS. oaieor

EMPLOYEE MOTIFIED @¥ DISPATCH KO.

“ cante no. paren:

Lice h | 4. ihn/y

Dwight M. Collins onres

Te

22 Dec 1964

CAREEO SERVICE REPRESENTATIVES

SECRET


owcr 4, muotos (/

vate
wT

10

FROM: DIRECTOR.
conn, LYFE -
wor a S~ ey :

i]

JME: 17 Feb 64.

pene MESSAGE

a inerk
pis/Merice epee: SECRET
CL FILE CS FILE NO,

MEXICO CITY |

2/04, WB
INFO. CITE DIR 0 { 9 2 0
REF; MEXI 8219 (IN 19291)* :

HDQS HAS POLIGE STATEMENT OF GOOD CONDUCT FOR etic orem
HAS NOTARIZED STATEMENT FROM BANK ATTESTING ANNUAL DEPOSITS ‘$5,500.
SINCE BANK WOULD NOT INCLUDE IN LETTER MORE THAN ACTUAL DEPOSITS,
HDQS OBTAINED NOTARIZED LETTER FROM COVER DIVISION NOTIONAL FIRM
“STATING PEINGLASS HAS YEARLY INCOME $6,000 FROM VARIOUS INVESTMENT
SOURCES HANDLED BY THEM, HDQS PLANNING HAIL THESE THREE DOCS TO
MEXI CONSULATE ASKING THEM AUTHENTICATE DOCUMENTS AND MAIL TO PO BOX
WASHINGTON WHICH USED BY DYVOUR. UPON RECEIPT HDQS WILL POUCH MEXI.

END OF MESSAGE

Pee what ection Hdqs taking to get bank statement
for FEINGLASS to facilitate his processing a rentista
petition.

*WH Comment:

Of en
J 4. WHITTEN
Z c/w/3 *

AUTHENTICATING
OFFiceR

\ \p CCG/NC ajaden (by phone)
ReHEHAn ft .
AMA WH/PERS WiTtt@an (by phone)
coonpimaring orsieras
AeLeaging OFFICER ercenveeramsacetts

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. Copy Now



7 $9575.00.

iy prsct!
spot puch curir
yeutbations far a
. be cont



aah ce
seek progeny

eypition ene pret
_ determines by t

2. Nyas ileal ©

ffiviad Covel}
t¥eua: Yor

vtaled byt

for

8
mite
reteaned =
Booed:
cntkin antes
Othe e applica.

tors cou REEe ES articipation in
he peturve Whether parti<
xi gover fae b ty program iu involumtary will be

s urganigaric

You are hereby authorized Noa.
iplicable ormarizuticnal
premium pay is ten per

ttaxeble Cenpeosation
agaed under rae

oer
han By ae
yony inion 3)

aeth op sed ae equati
Nigat on wena aes

fapent abrogt
eo your arrcat

Tbe suuner

cilnt yore aged

us fren the
os be yeaa ered
heonee, Your sedation euch
ttre Ree & provides
arefdaty abrrad
deep per dee
2 hy the

crane

Feaees pee

ring the Jarre

sated
Ors roard teases etalon te the post
foAtforts alt bs revushirer
eafter the teratyeared duty, but
fourgcreed te above return travel

bis aod efure,

AcTHemient rn

ey recyel dhs Sa
rood funiers

Sa by angen d

hee ae UE gat oa gph full
may eubie.! yout ermnal ;
se ivee (34K ae amended, ao

5 COV SEMMENT



iia!

+ SECRET

statt

Taunt ety woke Weare o
ium away

att re agent
SPAte LueLortt om sare age nee

Conta tena ret

. otett Avent

wife, 40
Son, U6

SECTION Ut
cave

a7. eoabat die ,
Nee

erCamnT COTAUTD

‘COMPENSATION

V7" waste sakaay Fe. Post OvFamemTaL | 78. COVES. ¢Breaddown, sf anr)
coset?
$8575 = oo
TET TULaaanets TmORUALLY GFANTED ONLY TO BESIDEVES OF Twa UNITED ST
~aarene/ Taal peor ar esderriealstscrenenns
_ £3,000 o> mediice aprbic athe te stiff asent ander nens
Tal Govt (Breatdewes 10 bap) uffletal cover.
weToN VE Tene am i
reas +
foe Cle i
at 10 at BaP Uae te ae aicita Jon, reason vesiet ve |
5 = a
1) IT CCPH MOERTS STATE MLLatiomamir, CITIZENSHIP, a ano path OF Biatm \
Wife, U.S., 40, 5 May 1923 f
. Son, ULS., 14, 20 Mar 1969 : |
2 US, 17, 22 Dec 1945 a peeteeensterctisd
saan 1
Z ‘ os so teomt Pans? ,
‘ 3 Guunve &3 .---
Oi Clon - i
Pvcrererr ary i
i
OPEWAT IOMAL EXPENSES ;

4. euTeavarmeret rercery

tes



Soa rf SECRET =

CONTRACT IKFORMATION AHO CHECK LIST
(CONTINUED)

ITE SRE TusrauC TIONS ow FIRST, WAST.

Fits applicstle co
Nonevl fig dai cover prentun j

COVEN ACTIVITY.

SECTION 1

SECTION X-
OFFSET OF InCows snp OTuER CwoLuatnt® OCR
. ‘dttoehed hereto)

Vumcvion ¢Cf, #1, PP,

ECT ION. ures

js. Geuteat ocacasers0m OF oUTIES To BE PLRFOMME

Translator ~ Rosstan, Spautsh

SECTION XW i QUALIFICATH

Prererrarrrsy
20 Feb 56 Sep 1962> > FDD/USSK Brench/ lige q
Sep 62+ Present. + Full thme Spaniel lenginige Crining

i toucavon

Ce TT:

Yeotvioua a

irs
COW TAY oF OMtaiN

(suet Aspropel
0 Cos
Russta
USSR, Turkey, AL! Western Zurppe in wat, 4 ets. Heatia

Stet on xv GP LomaNT_PaIcA TO Cia
| We beeCUTIVE Oa ==
|
{

ONAL IWF OPAT 10%

EuPamATiOnS (Use other aide tf nece
Chew

a ee
APPROVAL
—



stawoano roan 144
cence cons ON

IMPORTANT: The infoemativa oa

MAME (Last, Arat, emsdate

Tarasoff, Yoris Reitri

form will be used fn determi

FART L—EMPLOYEE'S STATEMENT

FRIOR

DATE OF BINT

2 Nov. 1908

FCDERAL AND MILITARY SERVICE”

18 creditable acrvice for fear purnos
for reduction in Sceve. The employee should complete Part Land the Personnel Office should complete Pi

and retention credits
ait

PART H1.—-THIS COLUMN IS
FOR PERSONNEL OFFICE USE

7. RETENTION GHOUP

|. LIST THE FotLomNG 1x
PRIOR TO OUR PRESUNT APRON

ny serviced

SSUATION CONT ENING ALL FEDEWAL AND DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA SERVICE YOU HAVE HAD.
WENT Ne inerade mat

RANE AND LOCATION OF AGENCY

CIA 56)

SERVICE, WHITE “NONE:

"GUST PERIONS OF SERVICE IW ANT BRANEH OF THE ARMCO FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES. IF YOU MAD NO MILITARY

Te 7

suet

bay | van

Monte] par

(ton: ee uinnon.7)

Isemnace

(LS. eety

2 fF

3 ert oer] tq af

Cree ey

AUTHOUT PAY, INCLUDING PERIQOS OF MESSSANT MARIN,
IF ANSWER 1S “YCS,” LIST FOLLOWING SOSMATION,

'S DURING PERIODS OF ENFLONENT SHORN IN ITEM 3, DID YOU HAVE A TOTAL

OF $e

SRE THAN 6 MONTHS ARGCHCE
SURVICE, DURING AMY ONE CALENDAR YEAR? [-] ¥ES [77] NO.

12, TOTAL scaviCe
Kone.

13, HONCREOITABLE SERVICE
(leave pucpowes on): ”

Toe T

Tora

Tere ee
WOR, Furl, Swap, AWOL, Moe Mac) coe

a ar [oe

14 NNCREDITARLE SEWICE
UEP purposes ont)

& CURING TRC IEQERAL SEAVIE USTED IN EW CID YOU

Ors Gwe

Ul anamee

20)

(tt A PERMANENT COMPCTITINE CIVIL SERVICE S1ATUS?

"Yeu inwhar ateouy were pou emplayed at the tim

ats was acquired?)

15. PEEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS

16, RETENTION KIGHIS,

7. APE VOU:
Acree wire or Assim yerme? CFas [) 0

THE MOTHER OF A RESEASED OM OUSARED
6, rae uvaeuanmitg wre aoe AyeTeNN TT ves

saw [] v3
wal

Ow

Om Ore
7. Cyrie ATION OATE OF RETR:
Tew alcnts A

20 Feb. 1956
et

20th

WTO 6¢ EXECUTED BEFORE A NoTARY POALE OR OTHER PERGORS AUTHORED TO ADUING'EN OATS
Taweat (or affirm) that the abooe statements are true to the best of my Knowledge and belief.

ae

‘Gucwataney

shinzton, D, Co

Subscribed and sworn to before moe via this.

SEAL

NOTE: Ifoath ia taken before a Notary Public, the date of expit
(OVER)

TAT

ror) t orn

ion of his Comu

istion should be shows,



PART IHL—DETERMINING CREDITABLE SERICE
AND SERVICE COMPUTATION DATE FOR
LEAVE puRPOseS.

TOTAL SERVICE (lean 12)...
NONCREDITABLE SERVICE (Item 12).
‘CREDITABLE SERVICE (Leave purposes).

ENTRUNCE OW DUTY OATE (Present agency)

[LESS CREDITABLE SERVICE (Leave purpores)..

‘SERVICE CCMPUTATION OATE (Leave purpowe).

PART 1V.—OETERMINING CREDITABLE SERVICE
AND SERVICE COMPUTATION DATE FOR
REDUCTION IN FORCE PURPOSES

(To be completed only in those cases when the amount of creditable service for reduction
in force purposes differs freun the amount ereditable for Leave purposes)

‘TOTAL SERVICE (Iam 122.

i [NONCAEDITABLE SERVICE (Irom 14),

CREDITABLE SERVICE CZF purposes) soso

EXTRANCE ON DUTY DATE (Present agency)...

{LESS CREDITABLE SERVICE (AIP purpsees)...

SERVICE COMPUTATION DATE (RIF purpooea
Unter as tne “sereica computation wate 0a th

———



CONFIDENTIAL ‘
then Fulted Ind

Complete in duplicate, The data recorded on this formis essential in delermining Navel expensed allowable in connection wah leave
2! government expense, overseas duty, return to residence upon separation, and for providing current residence and dependency inf
Imation requitedin the event of an employee emergency. The ceiginal af this form will be filed'in the employ

Wawa OF EMPLOLEE “‘atratie)] SOCIAL, RS perry

TARAS OFS «BORIS DimitRi OTF -OS= 7624
Rebiaonopeeet __. RESIDENCE Peete saumaeal Puanasasenee
MI Rese DC see BIg FOE SA yr Se

PEAMANENT RES | HOME weave meson Cer
cre

ASAD NNT Oe ye

SeReE NY OBES

as a

MARITAL STATUS (check one)

veo] Jowonceo ~~ [[wrooace

tmoee a
ir MaAnaieD. Peaster wiaTince , Ohvoe
TF bivanceD, PLACE OF OIVORCE GECHEE py earls

Toate spouse oie |

VF WIDOWED, PLACE SPOUSE DIED

‘EWMINA TION, AND DATES)

iF PREVIOUSLY MARRIED, INDICATE Wawel

___ MEMBERS OF FAMILY, a =
TELeenONE NO,

ONY, Wind ESOS Py y

Te oF

Mine OF aeouE —TI | ‘S76

‘anaes oF gayronen Wooneie
ve 4
anbarw ae Fo | 22 de 4S
Ray mou — . me | £0 Man 17
REP SPS, aooness TELE PONE Wo.
cr —heeowess TELEPRONE NO.

iain
ete
SOM MEMRSSGL OF NOUN PAMICW 1? ANY, HAD BEEN TOLD OF
BUineD IN AN EMEHOENCT. ot hag
fis SE. Comlshr

* "PERSON TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMERGENCY nm
RETA TIONENIF

oe 1

1S THE INDIVIDUAL NAMED ABOVE WiTTING OF YOUR
tet he Belteves you meek for)

EO TS Wane DECISIONS ON YOUR BEMALF? {Il #a* ar
fons in eave of emergency.)

1S Twis INOIWIOUAL AUT
any, he Cann mabe ean dor

GENCY AODRESSFE? (if answer le

GOES THIS INDIVIDUAL KNOW THAT ne MAS BEEN DESIGNATED AS YOUR E1

Seplam nym ston oD fro

The persons need in item 3 cbove aay also be nolified in case of emergency. If such
health or other reasons, please so stste in item 6 on the reverse sid
CONTINUED OW REVERSE SIDE

CURRENT RESIDENCE AND DEPENDENCY REPORT
IEE 61 waren CONFIDENTIAL

Eorrrons,

Tr



CONFIDENTIAL,
1eSo0 Bled In)
VOLUNTARY ENTRIES
pl
/zszez the settlement of estote ond financial matters,

ae ap uoey in neces disability of death and will edisclored only when cireussstences warrant

Baek VOU COMPLETED A LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT?

vee () se.
o PREPLANNED AN Al
ves CO) No. arty.

fon tequested in this section may prove very usehul to you family

where te document locetea™)
Ine Our ot
(dive names) end oxtire

Wie PISS OR
ANGE GUARDIANMIP OF YOUR CHILOMEN IN CASE OF COMMON DIDABTER TO GOTH PAR
(raed VOD EXECUTED A POWER OF ATTORNEY?

CQ vet gy ne aise

ADDITIONAL DATA AND/OR Ci

CONFIDENTIAL


i wy

CERTIF IcaTe OF ATTENDANCE

I certify that on MARIS 1956 have attended

the Induction Course specified vy Regulation 25-110.

BORIS DIMITRI TARRSOFF
7

lat
CDeceorene Co or

orice DDP / FI
prspleas Lares

Te anhatinan


STANDARD ronw 61 Cenern aust 9
ProMURcaieo ay CAR SUK COM!

APPOINTMENT AFFIDAVITS

wearing to these appointment affidavits, you should read and understand thé
attached information for appointee

IMPORTANT.

Washington, Dy Ce

1 do solemnly swear (or affirm) that—

A. OATH OF OFFICE cael

I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I ty ‘his obligation freely
without any mental reservation or purpose of ev
dutics of the oflice on which Iam about to enter, SO HELP ME GOD,

B. AFFIDAVIT AS TO SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY AND AFFILIATION

Tam not a Communist er Fascist. I do not advocate nor am I a member of any organization
that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force or violence or other
unconstitutional-means or seeking by force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the
Constitution of the United States. “I do further swear (or aftirm) I will not so advocate. nor will
I become a member of such organization during the period that I am an employee of the Federal
Government.

C, AFFIDAVIT AS TO STRIKING-AGAINST THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Tam not engaged in any strike against the Government of the United States and that I will not _

80 engage while an employce of the Government of the United States; that I am not a member of
an.organization of Government employees that asscrts the right to strike against the Government
of the United States, and that I will not, while a Government employee, become a member of such

an organization.

D. AFFIDAVIT AS TO PURCHASE AND SALE OF OFFICE

Thave not paid, or offered or promised to pay, any money or other thing of value to any person,

firm or corporation for the use of influence to procure my appoiutment,
E. AFFIDAVIT AS TO DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

‘The answers given in the Declaration of Appointee on the reverse of this form are true and
correct,

weve 20. Fab 9..1956,

Fab. 6
Subscribed and sworn before me this. ....22tR day of... ro. weenie Ae DL ID.

D.

at... iasinerirscat
ions,

fssat}

NOTE.—If the oath is taken before a Notary Public the date &f expiration of his commission should

shown. tee

iz that I will weil and faithfully discharge the



DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

‘This form is to be completed before entrance’on duty. Answer all questions. | Any false statement in this 7
decluration will be grounds for cancellation of application or disinissal after appointment. Impersonation is @
criminal offense and. will be prosecuted accordingly.

TW yRGSENT ADDRESS (ettoat amd number, city and State)

WESLEY HAL vate. Uise Sra, NAN Wedsdivéh Moe
2.) CATE OF BIRTH (OD PLACE OF BIRTH (city oF fowa and State or country) a
Nev 2 ees | En4are VNes et
Taber of tucnciney ruase WOT TH RATIONED [CD SIRET And ONDER STV HNO TATE @ tarmee
ANNA TARAS FE | wie 1631S Bevin way, sas beep BR Gr CI7?
are. te

Caees Tae onto HATES GoLERWETT ERO, A CIMLLAN CAPACITY, ARY RELATIVE OF YOURS (OTHER BY BLOOD Of MARRIAGE) WITH WHOM YOULINE Ge WAVE UVC wT
Tue vasr se montwst ("] yes (5) 90
te kilimene Blanka below, It additional epace is necessary, vomntete under Item 10.

Ten, forsach such lati o a Stor 10, ——
me Tt orice ATONE | FB mean to rruroear SAGE | amano | peo [Smee

(Give etrest nummer, 800) s {Check ona,

INDICATE “YES" OR “NO” ANSWER BY PLACING Wes] wo [pp th SPREE 10 DETALED ANSWERS 10. :
AN PROPER COLUMN Frew Ture iW UC-T COLEMM RUMBCRS OF ITEMS TO WHICH OETAILED ANSAEHS APPLY f

EOL TOIT NTE
OTT TTT Pee

1. ane You ACITIZEN OF Of DO YOUGWE ALLLGINNCE TO THE UnsTED STATES

{AREY A OIL OR EMPLOY OF NYY STATE, TERAITORY. COUNTY, OF

U your anawer

ive details in Teo 19.

“Yoo,

Joo vou accnale any anweiry row THE ERITFO STATES OR CISTRICT OF
Re ear as sir media ats? Jer Om ANY PENSION OR
Soha CawressaTiomrom miu taav OR NAVAL SERVICE.

FILEO APMLICATION erSELTING IN Tos ape
Seinen cs Foneth To RCIaM,
Pabtonv semsice Fou ANY POSttION..

Uyour aay Ye
ieiphager date anu iene

A naoe vou teen anne (et
TESSy"since vou FULD APPUlcaTiON ACSCLIING 16 E53 APPOINTMENT?

pronase te

INSTRUCTIONS TO APPOINTING OFFICER

ee eppotating ofter betore whern the foregoing eettficate inmate shall | (7) Ade. If definite ae fini
ater mepaanting oftres Relers Qavinieapgemstnene grail peimeunivemance be determignt hat argi-cant
Sev reeves a ta epee Mules anf Regulations and Uatii wah de
See Te thetked fe Roving of offre, pension, suitability cone
peice with any Facer Of Fecran Ginbare tn mefeny amd partic
fSiocing:

(0) Identity of appoiates

ping sana” pertnation and

SEEN en

Boe Sites Seruncue panera. Ht the areaatee
Sopra eal e

eve begacratahel fo the position, i shoal

Hifying etere of the Ci

it ja the duty of the enrointing offer
joo peanceshie doh tha

we Givil Seevire Act provites that
Sabers cls tamer serving ber



O}9677
Mpe

A£0100014936
ECOOGOSHAKSS
TCOOGIIHAKS&
BK3070000067

aQser 9
896033633297

6s el2 0 aw 440810500310

SCHdeGR SO ORG ABeTTEM
ABQIZCZOIOZS ECCOSZULIO4SS VFOOLLUXXXOS
VJORGIMHEK OS ee OOGIMAFZS  THOSGISNAUZE
BMQCOSAUXASE PAZoeSYAIKSL — FLOCSSYKARGO
Baziori16s9 ag27ecsoaes? © S308 6
BOSLITIILES® aQ56555553997 85733433257
zyptese9oo00 §=—_tM5 HAAARROD

SaEC RECT

ip)


SECRET

ey PERIODIC SUPPLEMENT
AG ¢ 7/ PERSONAL HISTORY STATEHE! Ret ayn

+ FOLe wane (Laat PTE oT IIT SS
TARASOFF, BORIS DIMITRY

T Guntent aopwtss (Nor, Steeet, Clty, fone, State)” S Pinwanint AUORIss (Rony Street, Coty, fone,

2619 - Gainsville Str. S.E. 2619 = Gainsville Str. $.5.
Washington, D.C. Washington, D.C.

TATED TERAT TORT. FORESIION Git COUNTRY Th STEW VOT Row ETAT RUSTRERET
Washington, D.C., U.S.A,
PERSON TO OE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF ENERGENCY
TUDTey PRTEREAY wESTOING Tw Uses
ssoff, Anna
T WOME AODREES (Hon, StFaeT, CATs

2819 ~ Gainoville Str. Washington, D.C.) U.S.A.

 DUSINESS AUORESS (Vo.s Street, City, NOTEATE NAME OF FIRM OW EMPLOYER. 1 APPLIC

2430 = E Street, washington :
wou Tuernane abuaE® i- Sodiwtss Te UPNOwe woNEER To wUaTHEST TELEPNONE EATENSTON
Uidlow 4-1380 EXecutive 3 = 6115 | 849

Tw CASE OF Ewenctmcy, Ciwee CLOSE MULATIVES (opus, Nother, Pather) way AL3O WH NOTIFIED. iF SUGH NOTIFICATION
VS NOT OESIMAMLE GLCAUSE OF HEALTH OR OTHER REASONS. PLEASE 30 STATE.

atey

WOME TELEPHONE NOwOE® os

TAT OR EF

wife

Fane, State, Country)

HARETAL STATUS

SECTION 1H0
tinct [x Josanveo | [eroonro ]

1 OweC U) Oner
E FURNISH DATE, PLACE BAD @EAS0u FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, OIVORCES OR ANMULMENTS

JetFE OR HUSGAVD: If you have been married
Jor husbend giving data bel 11 previor

> WAME VParety (uiddiey Vuaideny ss Tisaty
Anna. Adamoviez Tarasoff

TGountry)

ee than once, including annulacats,
a. Ef mereiage ta conten. fe . :

DATE OF MARRIAGE S$. PLACE OF MARRIAGE (CitY,
10 March 1945 Cleveland, Ohio
WIS (OF Mer) ADDRESS BEFUAE wanRIact (No., Street,

Ave,, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.

. OATE OF DEATH SGause OF DEATH

City, State, Coontey)

10. GuantnY Aoonts3 (Give Tak addrary VT de
2819 - Gainsville Str., S.

Ti, BATE OF aint Tit. Pace oF oat (

5 May 1923 - | Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.

PLACE OF ENTRY

‘State, Country)

42. TF QORN GUTSIOE U.8.°OATE OF ENiny [1a

Ta. Chi Piwiuie (Count py Te. OATe ACOuIRCD Ty. enenE acauines (City, State, Countivy
At birth Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.. An

Te. Present curtovew (A
unemployed, Last two

Street, Citys Counter)

ri
Fo. tuPLoveaTs om wusincsd aboeess (More

2430 - § Street, Washington, D.C.
SECTION 111 CONTINUED TO PCE Z

otc og THUD use. pacvious enitiows. ee a


SECRET

then Falla ay

Toeates ef wiwitacy Seavtch (Prams ond Peo ) 6 VONTH AND vEAR

2 Fed-3 9 20-C eh 295,

meine oF suecice oy

Ary

ANWENT SERVICE, UeBs 08 FOMETON

Tar prvannd Wr Orie

prwrrsarorcrrs

Section 1V___BEVATIVES BY 81000, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION LIVING ABROAD CR WHO ARE

WOT U.S. CUTIsEAS

ide) perreg

Firat

pererrcrers

TOORCSS cm CHUNTAY IN WMTEH RELATING BUSHDES,

evtereyenie 4 Counter) fo. Faeguency oF CONTACT

Teer

3. BATE GF Lad? CONTACT

Ta nave (Leste Furs@ewiddley

Tomer

WORRESS OW FSUNTEO IM HUNCH RELATIVE RESEOLS

TEUTNFENENIP gvaR EVD Ge. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

To BATE OF UadT CONTACT

ToL wawe (Lash FiratewidaT ey

rrr

SINTRY IN HIGH RECATIVE RESIORS

ToRESS oF

TREQGENeY OF CONTACT

Fe eats oF wast CONTACT

Erte EemSnIh ( CoMMEey) [ :

Save Maut (Lasts Paratewiddle pred

Estey

Te witGn RELATIVE RESIDES,

yanpRESS oF

TOF Cast CONTACT

rs) cry

inant ig TERRE OF

Br SPICTAL RUWAAS, UF ONY, CONCERNING THESE RELATIVES

FiMANCtal STATUS

‘SECTION V.
TARE VOU ENTIALLY CEFENDENT OW YOUR SALARY?

de

Ts UF omen incomt

chor To tHe ADOWE, STATE s0Umi

Be TF VOuR ANSWER US.

Be Gena tye INSTETUTIONS at TW anicH VOU RA

te. State, courte),

Creraere es asont ss (or

Anacostia National Bank

28h - Alabama Ave, S.5., Washington, D.C|

1

SECTICW v CONTINUED TO PAGE §
‘SECRET
2



SECRET

cane SEEN ty
¥. com LO FROM PAGE 2
wereer x Lee TL
I had been adjudged bankrupt by the U.. District Court of New York on
29 Oct 1940 in the case of Orel Velicateesen, 1456 Lexington Ave, N.Y.C.

stctro

wave your Cvew musw im, of PETITIONED 10".

ive Ae

DUNT UNDER AY BETIROMENT ACY.

Wow ime UaITED STATES Om DIGTAICT OF COLUMBIA GOVE

7 G6 You aLCt Iva aw ANNUITY
cTrany ow wavac seavices | Jves

PENSION, OF COUPENSATICN From

Ve COMPLETE OFTAILS

; VF VOUR ANRER 18 “YES” TO THE ADOVE QUESTION.

BO Wad WAVE Bey Timawei ay TwtisesT th, O8 OUFICTAL CONES Tutasea On iw OF
VF You wave

iim, wo
Bre ee Mbaarlong' on posinesued mavine avourantiAal fotton imienest3)

ansacaco.

CITIZENSHIP.

nVES", Give COMPLETE DETAILS OMA SEPARATE SHELT AND ATIACH IN A SEALED FRCLOFE,

Te Citi eungnur ae autne

oy > Guen

city): Naturalized

fe voun [a Give

ery or

Taoicave PRESEN! STATUS OF vOUR APPLE

ron (Pleat papers, #t6.)

EDUCATION

7, GOULEGE 0m UW!

‘suo

NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OW UNIVERSITY

‘Suasece

pares atiemoro | oconee

ceo

Ruseian University of N.Y., N.Y.C. Gene:

Te TRAOE. COMMERCIAL AWD SPEGIALIREO SCwOOLS.

NAME OF SCHOOL

stupor on SPecH AZ

Cooper Ungon § Art
Cooper School of Art

mc ety

Fine Arts

in Commercial Art

Cleve
Gittaae Wedtnine (Pull fia

a duty io

NAME OF ScHOoL

MITC Camp Richie, Ma
jarsityof Penn. _Philad. |

Do OrNER COUCATIONAL TRAINING WOT INDICATED ABOVE

Advanced CIC Course, Oberursel, Germany, in July 1945

SECRET
3


__ SECRET i \
nen Felted Io \
s[secrionvin FEREION LANGUAGE ABILITIES oo
eae I rine woe sea ATO
Se [cmtioe loestaten | rece oecrend NE se
ferences | eects ff eet fox i
aaean s coves
aE
iy Gar Wie GHECHED PRCROUMTE BTUOR™ UNSER “mOw AGQUIAES™, INOVEATE LANGIN AMO) INTEARIVENLSD OF ETUDE
SRST RETOUR TOT To BO HTCTACT SER CASGUAEE WON TAVOLVINE WGERMEL NTE 80 TimMInsUDET OH WHE BETTI TIE
: Seer tena, TELECOMWUNTCATIONS, MIGETAEY OH AVY OTHER SPECIALIZED FUERD
o [Secriow 1x ff 7 SEGGRAPHTE AREA HHOMLEDGE ° :
Sen TN rae TERE WECLSNS A CONTRA OF wine von HavT RAGALEDGE CATWTG AZ CRY) ara TiaieeEy Teavel
ee ee eee tate lumoee cOLuay cre oF SPECIALIZES RHOMLEDEL’. \ADICATE TPE OF RMDALLECE WEN as
ARMIN COASLL. HAKODAS, S31 a 2
Dates oF
a
Russia (Ukraine) General 1908 - 1920 bt
Turkey (Istambul area) General 1920 ~ 1923 Yes
Germany _(U-S.Zon4) General May 1945 -Oct 1945
SIUNDIEAT Tmt Pavone OF WISUT, AUSTOUNEL ov VHAVEL FOR FAEH OF THE REGIONS OF COUNTRIES LIETLD 20046
Rusia - I am a native of that country
Turkey - I lived there as a stateless person for 3 years
many - J was with $, Amy of 0 :
[section x TIPING ANO_STENOGRAPHIC SKILLS. saat °
fy USO 7 GadCR Ua) APP ROPAVATE VTE

ad [avenorven] _[oinen tree

AO OPLRATING CAPERIENCE Om TRATHING (Compt o™

Go INDNeATE OTWEW BUSINESS
raps. Gard Punch, ete.)

SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS :
a aahag Ww mTEW NETTIRE gTyVE OR WAVE ACTIVELY PAREICIOATIR, STROH sous cage setency
wee ere Bate” Soccer = Fair, Photography ~ good, Philately — ‘good,

Oil-painting - good, Reading - good.
Toorcare any SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS, RES.: FiNG, FROM TabERIEUcE OF TRAINING, puscm wIGIT FT you FOR fb PARTICULAR
TINE SET SUS IG epaiming ami experience with the Ci¢ would indicate the

type of work for which I am best qualified.

Uist aw SPECIAL Suites vou Fi
MUUTIRITH, TURRET LATHE, 51

[SECTION Xt

Sr eecueeina €GUIPwENT NOTED IN SECTION X, OSsess RELATING 10 OTWER EQUIPMENT OF MAT
CLENTHFIE AND PROFESSIONAL DEVICES, EFC.

Eutnes SUCH AS OPERATION CF SHORTHAVE RADIO,

Fisstricran, Badio Operator. Teacher

Tio weveye oF any THAOE On PROFESSION (Pilot
mame OF ISSUING BIATE, NO

weeeee J. INDICATE THE KIND OF LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE,

ae vou Awe A LOCEWSED OR CER
Laeer. ‘al Technic
REIS TAY NU 16 ANDER.

cainivenie (Wear oF Tier}

G. LATEST LICENSE OM Cf

[Year of iaewe)

‘SECRET
a



SECRET

(anen Filed toy
FRom PAGE

t Er wien voy ame iat Auta
Sho tyre or amering (Yene fection:

rar

SS TRETRT RT ETAT T TES ET NE TVET HAG STATE SHEE ©

STLTRT TR PORTE SPEDETNG BHD PUDLTE ALLATHONS FAFCRLENGE
Public Speaking and public relations experience on the Executive Board of
tes Alameda County “GeI.0._Council_._____.
renter ALAmode zoveic os wananany aeanciarvond om SOCHLIHES 18m
So ee ee Rehpraesg wanoas vou WAVE RECEIVED:
Chairman of the Circle of Youth "Russian Culture", New York, NeY. 1937 - 1940
The National CIC Association, 1956 - present:
Tau ZATION WORK EXPERIENCE = $) COMPLE!
Toiwcvusive eared (Fre giFier/oivisvow/ Rance OF AS3IC

2 Mar 1956 to 27 Jun 1954 7 | ppp/¥I/ct/Icd
i* RO. OF EwPLOVEES uNatm rouR MIMCCT GFE TEI AL POSITION Tite
surcavisi74 none Intelligence Assistant

a none. —L-—=
Ta prsewie Tiow oF burie®

| Research, analysis, and translation of maberiale in the Russian Language,
Aneluding extensive ‘work with microfilmed materials.

Ven Vou ane Now of

Fraar and Tory kT GRADE | 3, OFFICE/ONYISIONZ BRANCH OF perery

[27 Jun 1956 = 9 Sep_1956.— 1 00/FDD/BU_ cs

Guo. of EuPLOVFES UNDEG YOUR DIRECT OFFIeIm POSITION TITLE Se

2k surcoarsio’ _none. = InteLligence_Assistant—
ao pesca Tian OF OUTIES

Reading newspapers and periodicals, abstracting information of intelligence

yalue and compiling it into reports.

To awetugive OATES (

Tr neunsrve ontes (Prom ond Tor) TrGeape]s. OFF Ges 01 vISION/ BRANCH CF Rast ONMERT

|

\_9 Sep 1956__- _ present. | 7 00/FDD/BU.

0 See aR rar imate roun DInCET |B OFF VeHaL FOgTHON TINE
Siecniaion one Cr gretgn Docunent

Gr oeseare tion OF DUTIES
Abetraction of intelligence information from Soviet newspapers and periodicals
and compiling it into reports.

 INCLUSH HE OATES (PFO 2 eae DIP ICE/OIVIZICN/ERANCH OF ASS

Jo orerciay Position Teed

Wor or EurLovecs unvee ‘oun DIRECT
sues) 510" I

Tpescerp trom oF OUTIES

oe] OFFICEZBIVIStON/ BRANEM OF Assi cnurnt

Tar imccusrve DATES (Fro? and For)

Qritay position THTGe

Tne, a0 EuPLOVERS UNGER YOUN UIRECT
Sure vi S1ON

ToescarPtien oF UTES

ceunedy

cise additional pages 1 te



RE
Cohen Fitted tay

o (Section

or curcowen (4ne Tuite
peed chatdeen) a0.
Vveams oF act, AnD Tera surroRT, C8. CH
“gu AGE. THO-ABLNOL_SLLI = UPEO!
eee AND OLPENOENTS

or tue ToLCOeiNG

Barbara. par duaghtor_|_

Raymond Tarasoff avn

eerpine ttems

TODETIOWAL COMMENT AND/OR CONT!

Places of rocidencet BOD Date: 20 Fob 1956
18 Feb 1956 = 7 dul 1956 Wesley Hall, 1426 2ist Str., Washington, N-

7 dul 1956 = 1 Dec 1956 3605 =) Minnesota Avo, S.E., Washington, D.C.
1 Dec 1956 = Present 2819 =  Gainsville Str. 5.8., Wachington, DC.

aad coarceve pe CR OL
A raul fis 7]

cian SECRET
16


Fou wo

vocr 38

270

Date

1. 1 cin aware of the fact that the Central Intelligence Agency
by reason of the sensitive nature of its work, must observe very strict
security measures.

2. lagree to honor the requests of the Central Intelligence Agency
relative to my application for employment or rendition of services
whether it be accepted or rejected.

371 agree notte inform-anyone that-Lam being considered for a
position in the Central Intelligence Agency, unless specifically author-
ized by a representative of the Central Intelligence Agency.

4. | agree not to disclose processing procedures | have obsened
in the Central Intelligence Agency.

5. lagree not to discuss by name or otherwise, any individuals
with whem | have talked in the course of my application for employ-
ment to the Central Intelligence Agency.

ae :
PAK hg dem ——
Signature

Ay
Witness

















gore
$

















CONFIDENTIAL

then Fitted $0)

STAFF AGENT CLEARANCE

oaTe 28 May 1963
YOUR REFERENCES Request for Security Clearance datel 28 May 1963

CASENO. == 1.04887

0 : Chier, Contract Fersonnel Division

ff Agents Branch

SusvecT

1. This ts to mivise ¢ a security clearn: is granted for the employ-
Gent of the SubJect as y staff Agent, Go-11, ty O0e/wil/3, tn the capacity of

Operations Officer at Mexico City, Mexico.

ge the status or
ange should be submitted

% to cover any propo:

3. Unless arrangenents ure made within 69 days for entrance on duty within
120 days, this Approval becoces tr

4. As apart of entrance on duty processing:
mah
(Bi) 4 persona? interview 13 not necessary.

O

the Office of Sec must be arranged by

onal interview
ur office.

totes 1989 CONFIDENTIAL



CONFIDENTIAL a

aecumry mponnanion”™

SECURITY APPROVAL

: Date: 1s December 1955.
TO: Chié, Reconis & Servicss Division Your Roferonce: O-1235 DDP
Personnel Office
FROM: Chief / Security Division : caso Number: «104887
~  Personn E .

el
SUBJECT: TARASOFF, Boris Dialtri

lL. qaie te to advise you of security action in tho subdjoct caso as indicated
. low:

G securtty approval is granted the subjoct porson for avcoss to classifiod
inforzation.

co for full duty with CIA Lo granted under tho provistons
alation 10-9 which provides for a temporary appoint-
on of fuli security investigation,

(CO) Provistonal cle
of Faranraph D<
goat Foxding ¢cz,

a1 Intolligenco has granted a provisional olearanet
cra under the provisions of paragraph H of Rogulation

{(C] tre Director of Ce
for full duty wt
10-9

2. Unless the subject rerson ontara on duty !thin 60 days from the ahowe
date, this approval becomes invalid.

5. ‘Subject is to be polygrephed as part of EOD procedurese

ie) :
eal (LO

Ermal P. Geiss
fy

CONFIDENTIAL = .- - :

RM NO.
38-101 ro

for
fee 1952
