# 104-10165-10114

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10165-10114

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECHET

TO

Chlet, securlty Support DIVIsion

Date: 18 Hay 1960

ATII: ? Mr. Joseph Vidal, CI/Staff.

FROM & Interrozetion Research Dvision

SUBJDEL:

THOt: 40176

IDENIMLIC DITA

Subject Is a thirty-five-yers-old sarried Cuban sational vio

recently fled to the United States and 1s presently residing 1n Ilex

ort alty. subjcot, onlor to his arrival in the l. in tes protessionall

counted us a uriter and radio and television corentetor. He 18 1

well-bors personality 1n Cube.

subject was contacted by lI. Joseph Vidal, CI/Stall, uho debriefed

subject and obtained PRA IniQuIaTion. Subject lE belog considered es

a possible iP asset by tbic lgency.

I polygrant interviey was arranged for Subject at the request

of It. Ji Videl on 12 May 1260 at a covert site 1n rabinatos, D. C.

ye intervior end testiag tood place from 1430 to 1630 hours. Mr. Joseph 0.3

Luna jeraleted as interpreter aring the intervie and testing.

Prior to testing, the indersigned revieved the test questions

vith J. Vidal and 1t was deterised that the test vas to de basicaily

subjest 1s prescutly clandestinely connected ulta tse Cratro Covertuent.

3. The following specifle test questions vere posed duriDE the

Here you born on 6 July 1924: jes.

YeR.

No you oor waing, or bown under, another seas that you.

bare not told us about;

50.

SECRET:

fi.201-278130

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

STORET

Hare you deliberately alien us any faloe Iutornet1o0

coscerains your past? No.

Aro Jou a sember al t2a Cubes latlonal Partyl Yes..

Fore you eppolmiod Secretary Concral of the Party artes

the death of Linardo CIllAS? Yes.

Se you ever synpethetic to the theory or practice i

orset CountEss: No

Are sua sor syspetbetle vita the Courundot Vorld Moresent! to.

best you ever a saiber of my cousist organization: to.

Here you ever a newder of the ISP Of doy otder Caucurdst

Party: Ho.

DAd you eTe participate In dry Carrandat sotivity: Jo.

Did jou flist seet Iidcl Castro st the Valvezalty of Beneon; Tea.

Did you acccapary Iidel Castro os Ile trip to tbe V. S. 1a

1959: You.

Have you ener or art you sow serleg fidel Castro la Ey

lostr']Igence capacity? to.

Ato you sor an ageat of fidel Castro? Do.

(ISSE quastion nas posed at Subject's request.)

ero you ever secretly connected with ant intelligenc

Are jois son connected vith any cuban iatelligence service? Do

774 6465145566-09-677579

Here, you net co

234525

Yese you ever converted vith math service la cuber so.

SerE Jou ever cOrDartod MIEh DIER RETVICO LA Cuba! Is.

SECRET

storer.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ects

sie!

Did sou to to the cuban Consulate 11 Der York to obtals

& paespast fOr JOW SON! Yes.

Did you do to the consulate for aro other so:oni No.

Have you bed any secret communication vith aryone in Cuba

since jus hare bees in the U.S.i

Bare you set l'ith enysas connected uith the Caotro Goverosent

BInce you beve beca la the U. S.i

(Subject qualifled Ebla question to exclude too r181t

to tbe Cuban Consulate 1a Her YOrt.)

JUSULTS AND CORNISION

La subject's overall responsesto the ter i questions listed above

do not indicate Cellberate ettenpts at deception. It does not topeer

that subject 18 presently comected vita tie Castro Gorenment la day

Intalligence capreity sor does 1t appeer thet subject is consected vith

any Coccuatet 0rgo÷12a1100.:

2.

Subject's ettitude toverdo the Interricu and testing In tbe

1u1tinl stage ves cooperative and friendiy elthough ba appeared to be

He frensly edaltted that he had not told all concerades

his pest olmply because be bed seen vaiting for a strodgar coveltzent

sons our organization.

Subjest indicate, borover, that the laurantion

he bod saven about timelf up to the date of the internier us carrect

to the best of Ils bowledge.

3.

As the actual testing arogressed, and spectile questions ver

reposted os two or tore occasions, subject beceme lodigannt and openly

diaturbed by the questioning. Le stated thit be found sost of the

here not patisflederith he performance during the test he vould do

1E alose end caotimie bli Ratl-destro acility In ezy say possible to

bla.

di subject enliested schaltivity to tae questions dealise vera

armint syngetties and nendersbip in Cocainist oscanizations.

responses, houoyer, vere incursistont and did not eppeer to indicate

deliberate deceptlas. Eubject's only curbent vies questioned ascert blo

sensitivity une tiest be found to questions to be 'dosurd" and 1S aurono

bad road his boaid on tale subject, questions of thie fort vould bot be

DOCeRERSY. It eppoera that jubject, at least on tho surface, bea a

Legatinate excure for his acaslairity la this phase as resting.

-з-

SECRET,

44/54

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SEERET

subject. also sanifested a response to the question pertaindis

to bis visit to tha Cuban Consulate in Her York.

He choved so respoase

"Did you go to the Carieulate to obtase a

passport for your soni"

to the Inital questlody torever, iben the tollou up gestion ero.

"Did jou go to the lonouleto for any othor reasoa:"; bubject

did spor some sensitivity, Subject adultted his distirsanco becene

1n his sled the question mas pointless. He comenteà thet bed be bad

ant other reasos for visiting the Consulate, 1t sould bare beez fooleah

of his to have sentioned his visit to us 1n the f1rst place. so atterot

vas sado to probe this questioa any furtbor.

6.

it the conclusion of the intervier, sabject bed calred cova

candiderably and apocared to be setisfied that be las sot beiro subjected

to unreasonable questioning or Interrogation techniques. Jubicot las

Infaryad by the unemined that a ilnel onaljais cl tice tert souia

be mie during wich tine his reaponses to questions, bas cOncenty cod

quellrications rode durlog the intervier vouid be caresally evaluered.

Subject replied by wilcating that he tos satisfied toat he hoá ansvered

all questions truthully and could offer no sore to fauve the veracity

of his statemeats.

05/110/5103:286

SEGRET

V/PU

---

