Tend eees hades =
104-10089-10235] ‘ SSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDE!

geeet eo
qe
ye ° OGC 75-0717

27 February 1975

.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Associate Deputy Director for Administration
Associate Deputy Director for Operations
Attn: Mr. Fred Randall

SUBJECT: , Preparation of Agency's Position in Jane Fonda v. .
L. Patrick Gray, et al., Regarding SRPOINTER -
HTLINGUAL Activity

REFERENCE: Letter to General Counsel fm Dept. of Justice,

dtd 21 Feb 75, re: Subject Case

1. Paragraph I of the referent letter (attached) requests information
which may be relevant to preparation of the Agency's position in the subject
case. It is requested that you provide this Office with the requested infor-
mation, preferably in the form of a summary, along with supporting documents,
if any, from existing files, An attempt should be made, if possible, to focus |:
upon any specifics pertaining to CIA's acquisition of the four items addressed
to Jane Fonda. If this latter information is unavailable, please set forth the
operational details of SRPOINTER-HTLINGUAL that would be applicable to
1972-73 when the Fonda mail was acquired. - This Office already has a copy
of the SRPOINTER folder prepared by the IG in response to the separate
Presidential Commission and DOJ investigations of Agency questionable
activities.

2. Atpresent, the extent to which the requested information might -”
be revealed in court cannot be determined. This Office intends to resist
production of any facts not deemed relevant to the Fonda case. i Pits

3. This request has already been made orally to Mr. Russ Mi
Deputy Chief, FR, after prior coordination with the ADDO and Mr
. A response by 5 March is requested.

Aeergp ie) Water

GEORGE W. CLARKE
Office of General Counsel

XN

peg 8B? IMPDET 2
DLE Le cs CL BY 058473

Os 1073S"

