104-10510-10124] [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

aa?

~

oe Co. ic

PREAEE AOVATED RTLY 108 .
VOCATIONAL ACHAGHITATION

+ ema,

STATE OF FLONDA
DEPARTMENT OF ENUCATION .
i wiaut 38, FLORIO

TeLrnone a 71098
!

Ootoker 1, 1964 - i

7

Dr. Antonio Maceo
P.O. Box 1808 7
Hiazi, Florida 33101 .

aude Ae 100),
s

Dear Dr. Kaceot

da por your requoat in aa atteagt to ovcura farther infornatica
rogarding the duration of tho dieatility on the above indiviccela .
South Florida Hoopital, In. Losaga, ead Dr~ Nora were coatacteds

Gonth Yloriga Monpitel reported that irs Holina) they thougkt, vould. -
bo rondy to golsra for a trial viekt d& ateut ous montk, Trey End
rocently tcxec kia off kis nedicine tut bo whowad wizuw of doturis~

ration at that point and they pit bia back ow the medicino. OF

courac, ke would not bo olisisle for rebsbilitation iu one cooth ao :
the trial Uasta probably wonkd be oa veck-suda or for a short periods

(Ors Kora wus, ouutacted 42 concectioa vital. Rolusde As Bord ad i
i Qafoel Ortugh. T could gat mrthing watever definite regsriing :
. O(Geteau) bat in regurd to(Peagi,ir. Kora thought that Snfavfoy noathuy 7
 vorlé be eligible for release depending ca Bou vell he did dx tao =|’
Harbor course vbdo’ ho 1c sturting oa Koadey Octebor 5. He felt that

Ortegata care uisht-be longere .

Drs Lasega coye that Sa the cage of (Saal A. ilornand 2 ho world recon

nead payohothorapeutioc treatusats fer aa ideal © Bf one yoor altbovsh
y 3 or & mcutls could be Givoa kia, ke vould favor

in the evoat that ox},
thi as bottor then nothing.

Hoping that this inforvatioa has beaa wssful te you, I renaia

Very traly yours, =

} eaten’ D. Seith, Counselor
EE Vocatiousl Rehabilitation

GhSteab

