# 104-10333-10015

## Page 1

1704-10333-10015

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

New Memo|Standard

24 February 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Richard Flynny @ DI

Teresa Wilcox ® DST

Kathryn Dyer @ DCI

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson

CSI/HRG, JFK Project Officer

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Records Briefing for ARRB Staff

ARRB letter to DC1, dtd. 27 November, 1997, RE CIA Compliance

with the JFK Assassination Records Collection Act.

1. The JFK Board (ARRB) has requested briefings by records "specialists" on the Agency's records systems as part of the

compliance with the JFK Act process (see reference) for its staff. The first DO briefing took place on 12 February. The DA briefing and

a follow-up DO briefing is planed for early March. I would like to set up the remaining briefings as soon as possible.

2. The ARRB staffers are very familar with agency documents and have had several general breifings on Agency records; one

member of the staff is a former Agency employee (CTC).

These "compliance" briefings should focus on what files would have existed in

the 1958-63 time period and how we search, or account for, those records today. The ARRB requests you have been working on give

you some sense of the type of information they are interested in. In addition I am faxing a copy of the "talking points" prepared for the

DO briefing. I have also ask Jeremy Gunn, ARRB General Counsel, to provide a list of Directorate specific topics.

3. The briefing can take place at HQ or at IP. The ARRB attendees will include Mr. Gunn and 4 or 5 members of the Board's

CIA team; all are fully cleared (SCI).

CC:

New Memo|Standard

---

