# 104-10164-10004

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10164-10004

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-

£9-45-85

DArA: 32 M511968

•OURCE jOONCACT

BUSTERS (OSCANIZATION

OR INDITIOURL)

DATI ON DOCURRETT

ORTODATOR

UNISIA OR SENT

Piles Frank BAPTES (Neu Cleans)

(ALICIO CEUS BUSTILLO)

IR April 1968

Services/V. Thorne

Services

Tos Os/Personnel Security DiT., Paul M. Svana

TOR TUITIER IIPORNATION ON SURRE/CONTACT/SUBTIXI, PIZAST RITE 90

УЗДІТЕ ДОСИМЕНУ УІТЕЛ:

-oR.

(crock) :

SEASITIVE LOCUMENT CONFOI IRRASSEE

520

КиЗНОв О ГіХ

I WILL IN BANDLED IN AGORDANCE VIVE DES R L0-B0.

770.169

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECHE!

MOGESS SMETI FOR DORESTA CONTALI SERVICE COLECIONE

9.45-25

. 00

vate

06000

1681

SETTANE ARRI

01037. 21/2166

Atraske

postogropto al Pidol Conero ond Order Cubo Persool 16108

6 CONTACI NATO DA

frenk Sorres

16D8 Moson sal th Are.

hocairlo. lo.

A. SONACE (Manno, luto, Or

SUB-SONACE (Namo, luto, Org

om, Addrasa)

01057

8: 94585

IrPE DO€

малеті %

P11072.

SUBIECI

AREA

шатоне, но

0rEo

eroina

ORGANIZALON NO.

MDIVONEL NO.

mingercens

ORGANICA..:N NO.

EVALUATION

REQUESTED FROM

USSR ONLY

EXCHANGES

(CHECK ONE)

NO

TO. USSR

FROM USSR

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC

REQUIREMENTS

HEA-QUARTERS COMMENTS

1. METHOD OF COMLECTION

lesterotem

Tris Rapon

Othar Document

Ottor (apacity bolse)

FIELD COMMENTS

От вота.

Plorass patena do Nipe brg

189.67.

epiles Raglaser voy or ney not ba

intonastad in thora pletunes, al l of

malch nora tston in Orba in Betober

1958. Dur EsAtASE Na8 CAstra az. chis

ula privats alrplena lu tha soarco for

da donnad plane in salet beni lo

Cionfaraso ma killed.

It passible:

t mnlo appresiata l8 di yes coulo bem

dalleates rado f0s cm cielo

!

DD-25-J967

cit.

1& JAN 190%

1414T.

:14.

Corsiale piovidu

(2001):

L

---

## Page 3

14-00000

PRESENTATION FORM FOR GRAPHIE MATERIL

29 бастивая 1966

10100

Paragraphs of fldal Castro end Other Cuben. Personall bles

ISpled pRopograços, nogariods, ar aridone

§ block and unfra glossy priaca

anie or reposuas Potober 1959

CAREA CLASSINSEATIDN DO PUOTORRAPDS DEN SEPARATIO FRON TUIS MORÀ.

Plea mood Dos do pho 80n

SECRET

ILE SOURCE DESCRIPTION

aten rafugas. Forear offlelal of a Cuben rallroad.

IB SOURCE: APP TO MAXE ADDITIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIE

DIAL AVAILABLEP

DESCRIPTION OF MATERIAL

The pletures are mubared on tha back in penell in the upper torto

and corner.

The subjects are Identifled es follers

No. I a socond fron loft ulth board and aroglasses, serarching his chin.

Ral Chlbes, former Presidans of Mastern Rallways of Cubes fourth Pron loft in

shiTs sleaves and dork glesras.. Prank fortes, former president of Consolidered

hallmarys of Cubas Casero.

Ho. 2 ' Saered fron loft to right - frank Bartes; Ruto Loper Presques.

lomer HinIster of Tessury. Cube: nesa unknown, bur foruer hond of Ral luay.

Donalon Fund and parson who recalved publiclty es kichopper of racing delvar

кто уовть адо.

Ma, 3 = The only parsons contace con Idantlly are lIdal CAnETO, Prent.

arras in shireslesves anl dark glaszos, end as far right al pleturo, harlens

ent with help mussed, Acroal: Clonfunges

• holder of varlous posto ta tha Castro

Martento at and sino prebile Morks Mintorar.

No, I a fidal Cestro, Frank Berres In unite shirt and dark flenses, lonl

Calbas mess to Bartos with eyegleases and hand to beard.

riphe la ono of

ваввто 8 виудете.

18 JAN IDOT

FOR MI

00810.

21431-66

ой божтась но.

CADE NO.

¡PRATE POLY NAPLONIVE, PHIP

121

H0?198E1

DATE PONMAROCO TO OR MY OMP

I OBADLIME SIR LOANI

ICIAL GAI

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

PROCESS SHEET FOR OO C COLLEETIONS

FOR FiELO USE ONL

Me NRALOU

9: 525

20 20 80

.. =

10330

Rall roads (Crabal

A 94585

frank tortes, son

mar: president, Consolldared Ral loone

al Cuba

1608 Mason sal ch Ame.

DURCR (vera, Tilla, On

as contact

48:

Dori dee

КИНАТЕВ

88.88

CITRA DISREMIMATION CONTROL

THIS REPORT MAY. BE RELRASIO TO

1. 3. 3. 4 18100 UMLESS RESTRICTTO IN SECTION "X' →

CIST OF AGENCY COMSULTAN: »

окиська тов МіЯ STDIES

FIELO REMARKS

DATA SUPPLITO ARGULANLY

SCALLANKONA.

шети

HAL CONMEN

12

this he.

CASE

PANNIVE: 10 R8

ТАМСІ АЛВІНОМАГ ІМОАМАТІСЇ

9008

Hey let ca

25 VOR PREVIOUS

SPITIUN

SO AUG TOBA

SECRET fir

8 180-411

---

## Page 5

14-00000

COUNTrY

SUBICT

LIONE

CENTEAL iNTELUDENCE AGENET

H+5620783009900

Cuba

Rallroads

00-1 323/02853-0

27 July 1900

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

SOURCE:

1961

Cuba, 1961 and earlier

DATE DISTR

NO, PAGES

REFERENCES

Bupplesentary to 00-$ 3,903,802

000+B50 B0

•RR405099

IMIS IS UNEVALUAVED INFORMATION

Cuban citizen. Rafuges who loft Cuba In January 1961..

Ho was employed by Consolidated Rallroads of Cuba for abour 20 years.

Ithe sourco of this Information is nomally avallable for further

Interrogation, should this report generate additional requirementsel

"ho" lam 46 years old and I started working in November 1940 as an office

clark in the Havana office of the Guantanamo Westorn. Rall-uad Company.

In 1953. l was alected Vico President of the ConsolIdated Ral lway» of

Cube, the Cuba Rallroad and the Cuba Northorn Ral Iroad.: In February

1954 l was elected Presi dont of the Guantanamo Western and Vice

prasident of the Cuba Ral Iroad and thie Cuban Northarn Rallroad. In June

1958 1 was elected President of the Consolidated Rallroads of Cuba and

& finally left.aui

on da Jani 61.:

: Q. Can you tell me what was the length of the main linas operated by

connon. carrlers in Cuba and what was the total length of all branch.

: 11nas. combined?

"A:"'"" can only spoak for the mileage of the Consolldatod Rallways of

Cuba, which ran from santa Clara to Camaguay so Santlago do Cuba to

quantanano.

I would say that the main lins and its branches combinad

¿would bo 1400 p'us milas.

I would nay the mass commonly unad rall is d0 lus per yard. Abour

par cant of the main lina has 125 lba por yard:

¡dinga ganora!!

us per vard. The appronimato ano of mont of the maln lina rati Y 4a

3 8о 20 улага.

The plates are commonly used.

cried sure and bere

dol 404-907

11.4. 4.0:910

* 1.

:: #8

• N,

49.

30 AUG 1854

4.1 g

inted (0s 68149910

97:22NI80 816

VoYES

UNE OR MY

ION REPORT INFORMATLON PIEN

---

## Page 6

14-00000

S-E-f-E-E-I

00-8-3515365366

-2.

E. Man niay Iles tRise per kilaserer of sala linal lta: sype el tles sno

ased? are sies prossed: il 80, la unas su-nor?

Vras la sto avarago ilfo of

ties 10 8019-1100 Sarical

As you sIra an estinara as lis avarago uge of

fles nos la the sala lisa?

To tiss best of oy recollection, there ara closo to thirea thousand ties

por illonitor of sala line.

Ths fles are of hard wood but they aro not prosted.

Tha averaja lifa of tha tles is abour 15 years and l would say tbas the

average age of tha ples non on the main lina is abour 15 years.

5.Q.Locata and Indicato size of frincipal freight classificasion yards and other

freight yards.

ur sain classificution yards wore at santa Clara, Canaguay, Maron

intlaco de cuba. and cuentamm

l. Locaso and describe the principal repair shops for steam and for diesol

locomorivas.

A. No had complace repair shops for both stean and dlesal loconotives in sho

eastern wuiskirts of Canaguay City.

As a natter of faci, these shops aro

shown on the map of Canaguay Clay which appears on the road sap of Cube

publishod by Esso Standard 011, SA. in 1956.

7. 8. Locate and describa the principal repair shops for freight and passanger cars.

i:- passengar cars.

8.. Q. 88 any part of the system electrified?

A. No:

9.: P.: Is there a division between lines operated by diesal and steas motive power?

: No.

The Consollásied Rallways of Cuba liad 84 diesels and six storm engines.

The six steam engines were used more or. less for enargency work.

110. "Q.' What is the number and total length of tunneis?

Krio?

An. Thare are no tunnals on the systen.

1.

Stato

ho cumber of locomotives ln eech major category, of diasel, ste

a alectric; and, Insofar as possible; broak the totals donn by horsepowe

age and country of origin.

A."

remanbar the decalls about these bus l know thas some of the dieseis were

18.

15t.

Please glis thra number of passenger care and the number of frloght caro..

I'm afrald thas l cannot give you accurato figures. I know thas me had over

swo shousand. fraight cars but l do not remember the exses numbar nor do l

remanier the numbar of passenger cars, Lies 00-Ko3,903,801, The lon filari

sterlal contains chle intermation,

18. So Mare any passanger or Prolahe cars equipped ulch roller bearingo?

Ao Yas, somo, bus l do nes penamoor none manyo.

14, 8, Aro dioral lócomosives operased In multiplet

A do b, gie Me always, l9 dependo en sha warphe, of the japle end the

---

## Page 7

14-00000

ow: 323/52853-66

• 3.

15. l. Does each freight train carry a caboose on 188 roar endl

A. Yes

18. l. Khar ls tha snorego end seninua spead of passengar tralas leshoen 88opa?

A. Maxima 8200d nas 50 al les per hour and anorago of nos sore shes 30

allas par hour.

i do.

Can you giro the nuber of enployees of the conson carrlor rallroads?

1s shara a seasonal narlation la esployoonei

I can only spook for the Consolidated Rallways of Cube which had over.

10 chouse only soyed!

thare was a seasonal variation bur l8 was very slight.

88.

di centu doceria for amorale haulage elon of covera tellity ayecon

I can speak only for the Consolidated Railways of Cuba.

The main traffie

ras on the Cuba Rallroad. and thei Westorn Rallroad of Cuba.

The heavlest traffie

was from Camaguey to Nuavitas. The Consolidated Railways of Cuba handled

• one third of the Cuban sugar crop, so that most of the traffle mas from the

sugar mi lis to the coast.

Homover, the rasimay also handled carrio, rico.

vegatables and oll and other comioditlas..

19.

• "hat 1s the average langth of hault (This was statad in a 1952 repor

$ 36.8 kllometers.

A. I would say that in 1960 18 was abour the sama is in 1952.

20. O. Whas are the principal routes of passanger movement?. Hon dense aro

such movements?

I would say to and from Havana.

I would estimate that in this traffle

sha rallroads carrled about six thousand passengers par day.

21. G. l8 dally commuration a significant factor in the movesent of pazzengers.

¡No:' 1e 18 not a signifieans factor.:

.c i.

.. 1 09:

•118.1

der!

2. Do la lar dan trage repent of releva hapPened le the coca).

of cuban frolght?'

A. I would say shas lt la not very laportantoi

1'28.

Go. With respect to imports and axports. what ports: are usad for grostest:

tent: are he a port or any rain ate To Tie cheng it en cosmetica.

speaking; for the consolidated hallways: of Cuba,! would say Huavl tas,

Tarata,

Pastalllio, santiaga de Cuba, Boqueron, Antilla, sunta Cruz dal suP,

end caslldo..

I would say shas ony Interchange wich consonisa shippling la

Insignificant.

84, Go In nhas condislon aro the pelnalpal Aigtways of Cuba?

Thore la only one main highway on the laland which runs preezically sio

anturo langsh of tha loland from Pinar dal RIo to Havana to

Thla hlahmey was Ini poor condielen when 1 lagy fube In 1961.

88, Be Whos custo

'Ai

queer, sad and sonarai commodi eles.

Clothole?

---

## Page 8

14-00000

#+808-51-8-9

0550183354

26. Q. 12a8 18 she genaral partera end direction of flan of this trafflel

A. Froa country to el8las.

27. C. Mas considerations determino tha salection of the seins of transport

'for tha sajor cosmadiel as soved?

A. Prico, tlno, naturo of comodity, and facl litles.

28. B. Whas pipollnes, If any, are located in Cubal

. A. Mons 80 ssy knoniedgo.

??:"

=at.201

• end .

sergirig

ala cocies

6m119.69

raireir.2, de a95a5i0r99/2li

":3.

1218.590 126011094

000425 0 192384

Sum in car tomai

V:

de asilo nucasos cune, acay que vacaen dectio, catenas me borradica

N: 40: 17440-959824481047333

15 Lang: 547

wA 490.089

A mine 7w min suge

10

eN clara

reint 50045481659

nike.

sitalie

inst 4 los sin sit

ncxod0+s 4425658- 10e pied

be: 8149080-79449

закін

12194947

: T6. 071988

2200001480 401

1446101 10700099

11 99

Man 151Q

MiM

tra oner de den de cope no donate no map win

les

1 a 18s

---

## Page 9

14-00000

Мы по ани

Caro 42888 (Cubo)

SECRET SEESITISE

PROCESS SHEET FOR OU E COLLECTIONS

94535

409

IMEADOLAN

raceroes

00 1a 08 00 10

061961

18 80 10 88 80

ка по 8о, 88 га ва

82888x-0122453%

36245

arresto

'artes es' ee

от ч

STRATIO

хат.

rank Barres

474585.

Farmer presIderit, Consol leared dal luays ai Cuba

dom Pricans, Loulalons

DUNCE Wana Tita Orsan

—.00n-

DURUEET

DUACK Were, Tuie, Ora

ATRA DISSEMIMATION CONTROL

THIS REPORT MAY BE RELEASED TO

8. 4 BALOM UMLESS NESTRICTEO 19 SECTrOM."«"—»»

ONCO MAT OR DORACY CONTULTANTE

ENTENNAR PROJECTS

DORMEIES DOE MOS OTHOLES

MARKS

WAY.

мот BE

RELEASED

СМЕСК ТИНІ

о. н.

18_19

MAL US

DITORIAL CO

seniase.

TACH. NOT RETURNED

SO CONTROL WITINR.S

Ci

i-ni

NO MAMONT ATAPOMAVA TO ACQUAIMAI

LANCI ADAITIONAE THINAMATION WITHIN TRAVEL

THE HAS MEAN SE

Whey

ADIPION

SECRET

STARTED MOVIE

---

## Page 10

14-00000

INEORMAX ON BEARAL

NORMATION REPORI

DOST MN5.

Fino cares

COUNTEr Cubo

Condillon of Fallroads la Cube

#o-+5-8-78-84-808-868

REPORT NO

DATE DISTR

NO PAGES

REFERENCES

00-$3.903,800

В боль 290

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

1968

0о, Доє 63

IMIS IS UNEVALUALED INFORMATION

SOURCE: Cuban ellixon.

Foriar aracutive of Consolidated dullroads ol Cuba uno fled Iron Cuba lo

8961.

gone no should sale refore senerate ordel lona laule or further. Incorro

gation, should this report generate additional requli

Lon 18l0 In CIA Library is a copy of "ConsolIdated Statements of Rolling

Stock," years ending 30 Jun 59 and 58, published by the Consolldated

Rallroads of Cuba, and a copy (In Spanish) of a statement of the condition

so in the following report. • UNCLASSIFIEDI

la from tina to tlas I have recalved information fron soma of my former employees

uto are stili exployed by the ConsolIdated Rallroads of Cuba. (uhich was calen

over by Castro, giving no Information as to the condition of the rallroads.

The intomation mich l have raceived (rom time to tina is to the artes

has bocauso of poor maintenanco, leck of spare parts and guneral Inalticlency

sha rallroads. in. Cuba are all but Inoperas ive.

So l en cold chas this year L59647, for the firas tina since caztro has been

holding his blg nestings in Havana on May Day, la dle not transport people

Iron the country to Havana by rallroad.

" judge from this chat the rall-

roads more incapable of trensport ins large numbers of propie as ther had in

Bino pasto

I have rocalved: Iron cuba a statonent concoming the condition of the polling

prock of all raitroado in Cube for the flacal yoar duna 1969 - duna 1963.

Do A connerison with the statement of rolling ssack of the consolidarad Rallroede

of Cube anis for tha yours ending 10 Jun 58 and 59 (which is the lans scaron

pent prepared by sta company bafore Castro solzed the rallroada) will shou

she deplorabla condillon of the rolling arock.

too: +090809080840908 adole

: infident

Wi:

• З.ИМІТПЕТ

THAT MING ANI

#INFORMATIONEREPORTERAINFORMATIONTREPORTA

---

## Page 11

14-00000

coo: ++86-88-8-81 00-83,903,807

--..

s-.i

"rie a sa.

1:4-.0.

÷1.nd

C.in

42.8494 5921:39:6094.

tra probaro poemploa bensao

ca. de toro descendo dra le desaci.

1-4

S49d.1vg 116921.19

900424

jit

13 1" sad.

Lang: 547

ond salta"

regorio la cortar aho dos erar do eson ja

M17"

*di

apohol

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SECRET

TAMEN FILLEO ENO

F-945?51

200

FOR

ADE COLLEETIONES

000

11-,9.0

1xa0k1

B6335

A91968

ancelled

DoM of Now OrLeans, Lords lana

KITHA DIBASMIMATION CONTROL

THIS ARPORT MAY DE MELRASRO TO

AMARANTO 14NT OF sORNET CONSULTANTO

АРАВАКО КАРИНА ПРОЛАЄТЬ

•ЧИ ЗУсИсО тоВ міВ оТлОи

ПЛО ПЛАЙКО

0r &

HILLASER

ClA

о. н.

AS 13

SECTION IF RELLASABLI

PANT &

DELETE

ENTIRE

S. D.

NTERNAT USE GLY

DITORIAL

WH - 215

тоо окнеаль.

DATA DUTIES TRUIN

OtHEN/MIcreLAnsOus.

To: WH/4/71

3. L

NASHAT WONHA NO WIRIN HAY

HI CAMN MPON ON THE CAN

16 0900113119441040

1à2i.

SECRET

ATET ORTI

NeededeeT

& 180-498

L

---

