# 104-10439-10029

## Page 1

mann

1104-10439-10029

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Salmai

5x-4617

2 October

1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI Liaison

FROM

SUBJECT

SR/CI/R

Questions Concerning Defectors

Joseph J. DUTKANICZ (201-289236) and

Viadimir O. SLOBODA (201-287527)

1. DUTKANICZ's Army assignment at time of defection.

USAREUR Case Summary 2-62-2 (copy attached) confirms

DUTKANICZ's assignment to the 32nd Signal Battalion in Darmstadt.

However, his wife indicated that he had CIC connections. In an interview

at the American Embassy Moscow on 5 December 1961 (cited in DBA-288,

24 January 1962), she indicated that their trip behind the Iron Curtain "had

been made possible because her husband worked for the CIC and was allowed

to do things the ordinary 'GI' could not do.". There are also penciled no-

tations in the 201 file suggesting that his Army assignment may have included

intelligence functions of some kind.

2. Previous KGB connection of both defectors.

Per USAREUR Case Summary 2-62-2, DUTKANICZ himself

told American Embassy officials in Moscow that he had been approached by

KGB representatives in a bar near Darmstadt in 1958 and had accepted

recruitment as a result of their threats and inducements. He claimed to

have given them minimum cooperation from then until his defection, although

the Army considered it probable that he had done more than he admitted. A

further indication of his KGB involvement before defection is the fact that the

special decree granting him Soviet citizenship was enacted three months before

his arrival in the USSR; see Emb tel 851.

Document Number

893-910

for FOlA: Review on JUL 1976

8. 201259236

201-287527

FI CS COPY

machine

Pregnan

101-224248

200-5-47

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SEVILLE

5x-4617

2 Cet 64

SLOBODA's prior KGB involvement was confirmed by BEVISION,

as reported in YT-1192.

See attached memorandum of 28 March 1962 in

regard to passage of this information to the Army. Further indications are

the facts that SLOBODA was a KGB resettlement case and that he later told

an American Embassy Moscow official that he had been blackmailed and

framed into going to the USSR. See Moscow Emb tels A-572,

23 October 1962,

and 851, 23 March 1962.

3. Army security investigations as immediate cause of defection.

Per USAREUR Case Summary 2-62-2, DUTKANICZ told American

Embassy Moscow officials that he had informed his KGB handler that he was

under investigation for security reasons. He defected soon after, in accord

with a KGB suggestion that he do so.

SLOBODA's defection was precipitated by increased Army

security measures, according to BEVISION.

Vine K

Curtis

Lee H. Wigren

C/SR/CI/R

- 2 -

SECRET eS cOFY

201289248

2005-41

---

## Page 3

13-00000

C. Cour

37 MAi

(EDCA- 18262/2

1.":91

Case:

L.

DUTKANICK, Josepf, Sgt.

9 June 1920

Gorlice, Poland

Case Summary: 2-52-2

Date(a) of Activity: 1958-1960

, Date Neutralized: N/A

Hostile Service:

Soviet Intelligence

Services (SIS),

probably

State

Security Service (KGB)

Target:

USAREUR Forces

Sunnary

Dutkanice claiing ho was recruited by reprosontatives of Suviot

Intelligence in "est Germany during 1958. A combination of throats and

inducements' were used to gain his cooperation.

He admits having had

four meetings with his Soviet handlers during a two-year period, but

claims ho supplied only limited information to the KGB. There are, how-

ever, substantial indications that the compromise was greater.

His

espionage activity was terminated by his defection to the USSR in June

1900. Ho was subsequently exploited for propaganda purposes by the

Details of his complicity were obtained from statements made

1y Dutkanice to US officials in Moscow.

ElT and Assignmenta

¡Dutianicz's principal mission was to roport changes in the otatus

and cispinition of USARiUR forces indicating possible preparations for

Ho also adaits receiving detailed instructions from

SIS which probably included additional collection EEI, but he did not

elaborate. un these missions.

Recruitment and Mudug Operandi

Dutkanicz, a naturalized US citizen born in foland,

1943 as a slave laborer and immigrated to the United States

after World War II.

He was drafted into the US Army in 1951 and was a

vorceant in the 32nd Simal Battalion, Darnstadt, at the time of

defection. Fic is a convinced liboral and has eupoused loftiot causer

which led to a review and revacation of his SECRIT clearance in January

Dutkanicz claims he was approached by KGB personnel in 1958 while

drinking in a bar at Crumstadt, neus warmstadt.

In the initial con-

versation, a combination of threats and inducements were used to obtain

his promise of cooperation. The threate were mostly implied and

directed against relatives

in Poland, his immediate family in West

¡Gernan; and : atkanics personally. Inducements consisted of promises to

assist relatives residing bohind

the Iron Curtain.

He also admits having

nuney on several occasions,

but he allegedly refused

for his espionage activities. Dutkanicz claims that the

201.289248200 5-41

CULE DENTAL EGOA 1826243

ATT. l to: 5X-4617

GS COPY

201-289236

---

## Page 4

13-00000

( CONOENTIAL (

controlling

agency was the KGB. He admits having four meetings with

the KGB representatives, who vere allegedly from Vienna, Austria,

during the period 1958 to 1960.

He was furnished an accommodations

address which he no longer remembers and was given secret writing

naterials.

He claims to have sent only four letters to the accommo-

dations address and he alleges to have furnished only negative

imminence reports.

In May 1960 Dutkanicz informed his SIS handler that he was being

investigated for security reasons and he was advised to apply for

leave and defect with his wife and family to the USSR via Austria and

Czechoslovakia.

Dutkanicz complied with the instructions. Contact

with KGB representatives was established on 26 June 1960 in Bratislava,

Czechoslovakia, a short distance from Vienna. He and hia family then

drove to Ivov, USSR, with a Soviet escurt.

He was subacquently

exploited by the Soviets for propaganda purposes.

The actual propaganda

material was propared by the KGB based on details furnished by.

Dutkanicz:

In March 1962 the Suviets permitted his wife to return to

the United States, but the children were retained in the USSR.

Dutkanicz

was allowed to accompany his wife to the US Embassy in Moscow for making

the necessary preparations for her return.

During this period Dutkanicz

made a statement concerning his espionage activities in behalf of the

KGB.

USAREUR Comment

Although Dutkanicz's confession. was obtained undor ununual

circum-

stances, his statemonts appoar substantially true although obviously

incomploto.

A strong possibility exists that he worled for tho KGB for

a longor period than he admits, and it is probable that Dutkanic pro-

vided

the KGB with considerably more information than negative imminence

reports.

His statement that his SIS recruiters were from Vienna ig

possibly correct and is supported by his alleged defection route.

His

statement that he refused payment from the SIS seems unlikely,

since he

reportedly was spending considerable amounts of money before his defection.

The case is of unusual significance since it constitutes one of the most

serious known penetrations of USAREUR forces by hostile Intelligence.

"Also important is the fact that Dutkanicz's defoction vas apparently

instigated by the Soviots for propaganda purpuses after ho lost access.

•to sensitivo information.

Additional reports will be prepared as information becomes available.

PREFARED BY PRODUCTION BRANCH, INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, HQ USAREUR,

i APO 103, US FORCES

CONFIDENTIAL

26S COPY

EGOA.

201-289248

1 8 26247

200-5-41

---

## Page 5

13-00000

28 March 1962

MEMORANDUM! FOR THE RECORD

Subject: JACUAR Request for Questions to be usedin interview with

Mrs. Lllian SIOBODA, wife of American defector

Vladinir SLOBODA

1.

I.OND 0883 (IN 47926) of 23 March 1962 regarding tho Subject

vas discussed with Mi James Hunt, DC/CI on 27 March 1952.

He was

asked if the Amy had been advised of REVISION's identificatio

of SLOBODA as a KGB agent

(XT-1192, 16 January 1962) and if this

information should be passed to JAGUAR. Mr. Hunt said that the

Army was somewhat embarrassed about, this case since SLOBODA had

"flunked L or 5 ICFLUTTER examinations" before his defection, so

the information had not been passed to the Army.- As noted in II-1192,

SLOBODA was not particularly important, according to BEVISION,

and Hunt belioved the army assumed he was an RIS agent when he

went over the hill.

2. Mi. Hunt, saw no reason to give the information to JACUAR

bit sugrested

that

in

our cable we say SLOBODA was presumed FIS.

30

The Polish Desk said that, BEVISION is currently being

interrogated by the Army and they probably will ask him questions

about, SI03021.

It your

Louise Lyon

SR/CI/RED

ATT. 2 to: 5X-4617

ES COPY

201.289248

200-5-413

---

