(104-10333-10011

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

ARCA_allows postponement if:

! pee

RNAL USE -ONLY
TORNEY WORK PROLCT CL

OGC-94-52916
19 September 1994

MEMORANDUM FOR: David P. Holmes
Deputy General Counsel

FROM: Robert J. Eatinger. Jr.
Assistant General Counsel
Litigation Division, OGC

SUBCECT: DCI Sources and Methods Authority With Respect
to JFK Assassination Records

1. Per your request, I have attached a copy of the
President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of .
1992 {ARCA), Pub. L. 102-526, 106 Stat. 3443-2458, reprirted at
44 U.S.C. § 2107 note. For ycur convenience, I have hig
tinent provisions that will aid in reszsond
ry regarding the statute's effect on the DCI’ s statutory
ty to protect intelligence sources and metheds.

2. The clear language and intent of the law is to supersede
statutes that prohibit disclcsure of information, except for some
irrelevant subject areas, such as tax records. The statute
provides that "it shall take” ‘precedence over any other law
{except section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code), judicial
decision construing such law, or common law doctrine that would
otherwise prohibit" the disclosure of information subject to the
Act. ARCA § 11(a). This language, taken with the provisions
discussed below which limit the intelligence sources and methods
that may be protected and set a strict procedural scheme by which
information is to be reviewed under the ARCA, effectively a
supersedes the DCI's National Security Act authority with respect

intelligence sources and methods information subject to the

3. Section 6 of the ARCA provides the grounds for which the
release of information may be "postponed." The statute
contemplates that all information will eventually be released.
Indeed, it specifies that all information will be made available
to the public no later than 25 years after the passage of the
ARCA (which occurred in October 1992) unless the president
certifies that continued postponement is necessary. ARCA
§ 4(g)(2)(D). With respect to intelligence-related information,

"(1) the threat to ... intelligence operations ... is
of such gravity that it outweighs the public interest, and
such public disclosure would reveal--

PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT
AGENCY- INTERNAL USE ONLY


AGENCY- INTERNAL USE ONLY
PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODTCT

SUBJECT: DCI Sources and Methods Authority With Respect to JFK
Assassination Records

(A) an intelligence agent whose identity currently
requires protection;

(B) an intelligence source or method which is
currently utilized, or reasonably expected to be
utilized, by the United States Government and which has
not been officiall isclosed, the disclosure of which
would interfere with the conduct of intelligence
activities; or

(C) any other matter currently relating to...

intelligence operations ... the disclosure of which
would demonstrably impair the national security of the

United States."
ARCA § 6(1) (Emphasis added.)

4. The originating agency is ts make the first review to
identify information that meets the standards for postponement.
ARCA § 4(c)({2)(D) (i). For CIA, this effort is being undertaken
by the Historical Review Group, in consultation with the
Directorate of Operations and other appropriate Agency
components. Information the originating agencies identify for
postponement must be transmitted to the Review Board. ARCA
§ 4(c)(2)(E). The Review Board "shall consider and render
decisions on a determination by a Government office to seek to
postpone the disclosure of assassination recerds.* ARCA §

7(i) (1). Specifically, the "Review Board shail consider and
render decisions on ... whether an assassination record or
particular information in a record qualifies for postponement of
disclosure under the Act." ARCA § 7(i) (2) (B).

S. If the Review Board determines to orSer the disclosure
of information that the originating agency feit met the criteria
for postponement, it "shall notify the head cf the originating
body of its determination and publish a copy of the determination
in the Federal Register within 14 days after the determination is
made." ARCA § 9(c) (4) (A). If the information contained in an
assassination record is "obtained or developed solely within the
executive branch, the President shall have the
nondelegable authority to require the disclosure or postponement
of ... the information under the standards set forth in
Section 6." ARCA § 9(d)(1) (emphasis added). The President's
decision must be certified to,the Review Board within 30 days of
,the Review Boards determination. Id. Records postponed by the ~
-President must be re-reviewed every 5 years. ARCA § 9(d)(2).

2

PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT
AGENCY- INTERNAL USE ONLY


AGENCY- INTERNAL USE ONLY
PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT

SUBJECT: DCI Sources and Methods Authority With Respect to JFK
Assassination Records

6. I would be happy to discuss this further if you so
desire. You might also want to contact John Pereira (x30373)
since he has met with some or all of the Review Board members.

Attachment

3

PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT
AGENCY- INTERNAL USE ONLY


SUBJECT: DCI Sources and Methods Authority w/Respect
to JFK Assassination Records

OGC-94-52916

DCI/OGC/RJEatinger:76105 (19 Sept 94)

Original - Addressee .«/attach) ihand delivered)
- OGC Registry (w/attach)

- Lit File

- RBB (0GC/Ii5)

- C/HRG (J.Pereira-404 Ames)

RJE - Soft File (w/attach)

- RJE - Signer

- PDP

- KK -fyi

- PAS-fyi

PPP PPP Pee


< LECTIONS

DRAFT

CHAPTER XIV — ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD ;

Part 1400 —- GUIDANCE FOR INTERPRETATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
OF THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS
COLLECTION ACT OF 1992" (ARCA)

Sec. l

1400.1 Scope of assassination record.

1400.2 Scope of additional records and information.

1400.3 Sources of assassination records and additional records and

~~ information.

17


DRAFT

1400.4 Types of materials included in scope of assassination record and
additional records and information.

1400.5 Requirement that assassination records be released in their entirety.
1400.6 Originals and copies.

1400.7 Additional guidance.

1400.8 Implementing the ARCA — Notice of Assassination Record Designation.
Authority: 44 U.S.C. 2107 note.

§ 1400.1 Scope of assassination record,

(a) | Anassassination record includes, but is not limited to, all records,

public and private, regardless of how labeled or identified, that document,
describe, report on, analyze, or interpret activities, persons, or events reasonably
telated to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy and investigations of or
inquiries into the assassination.

(b) —Anassassination record further includes, without limitation:

(1) All records as defined in Sec. 3(2) of the ARCA;

(2) All records collected by or segregated by all fedéral, state, and local
government agencies in conjunction with any investigation or analysis of or
inquiry into the assassination of President Kennedy (for example, any intra-
agency investigation or analysis of or inquiry into the assassination; any inter-
agency communication regarding the assassination; any request by the House

Select Committee on Assassinations to collect documents and other materials; or

18


DRAFT

“any inter- or intra-agency collection or segregation of documents and other
materials);

(3) | Other records or groups of records listed in the Notice of

Assassination Record Designation, as described in §1400.8 of this chapter.
§1400.2 additional rds and information.

The term additional records and information indudes:

(a) , All documents used by government offices and agencies during their
declassification review of assassination records as well as all other documents,
indices, and other material (including but not limited to those that disclose
cryptonyms, code names, or other identifiers that appear in assassination
records) that the Assassination Records Review Board has a reasonable basis to
believe may constitute an assassination record or would assist in the
identification, evaluation or interpretation of an assassination record. The
Assassination Records Review Board will identify in writing those records and
other materials it intends to seek under this section.

(6) All training manuals, instructional materials, arid guidelines created or
used by the agencies in furtherance of their review of assassination records.

(c) All records, lists, and documents describing the procedure by which the
agencies identified or selected assassination records for review.

(d) | Organizational charts of government agencies.

(e) _ Records necessary and sufficient to describe the agency's:

19


(1) Records policies and schedules; DR AFT

(2) Filing systems and organization;
(3) Storage facilities and locations; see eeeaeeeeaeE
(4) Indexing symbols, marks, codes, instructions, guidelines, methods and
procedures;

(5) Search methods and procedures used in the performance of the agencies’
duties under the ARCA; and

(6) __ Reclassification to a higher level, transfer, destruction, or other
information (e.g., theft) regarding the status of assassination records.

(f) Any other record that does not fall within the scope of assassination
record as described in §1400.1, but which has the potential to enhance, enrich,
and broaden the historical record of the assassination. :
g14003 Sources of assassination records and additional r sand
information.

Assassination records and additional records and information may be located at,
or under the control of, without limitation:

(a) Agencies, offices, and entities of the executive, legislative, and judicial
branches of the federal government;

(b) — Agencies, offices, and entities of the executive, legislative, and. judicial

branches of state and local governments;

20


DRAFT

(c) Record repositories and archives of federal, state, and local governments,
including presidential libraries;

(d) Record repositories and archives of universities, libraries, historical __
societies, and other similar organizations;

(e) Individuals who possess such records by virtue of service witha
government agency, office, or entity; ,

() Persons, including individuals and corporations, who have obtained such
records from sources identified in subparagraphs (a) through (e) of this section;
(g) Persons, including individuals or corporations, who have themselves
created or have obtained such records from sources other than those identified in
subparagraphs (a) through (e) of this section;

(h) Federal, state, and local courts where such records are being held under
seal; or

(i) Foreign governments.

§1400.4 T f materials included in scope of assassination record and

additional records and information.

The term record in assassination record and additional records and information
includes, for purposes of interpreting and implementing the ARCA:

(a) papers, maps, and other documentary material;

(b) photographs;

(c) motion pictures;

21


DRAFT

(d) sound and video recordings;
(e) machine readable information in any form; and
(f) artifacts.
§1400.5 Requirement that assassination records be relea sed in their entirety.
An assassination record shall be disclosed in its entirety except for
portions specifically postponed pursuant to the grounds for postponement of
public disclosure of records established in Sec. 6 of the ARCA, and no portion of
any assassination record shall be withheld from public disclosure solely on
grounds of non-relevance unless, in the Assassination Records Review Board's
sole discretion, release of part of a record is sufficient to comply with the intent
and purposes of the ARCA.
§1400.6 Originals and 9 ies.
(a) _ For purposes of determining whether originals or copies of assassination
records will be made part of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection (the JFK Assassination Records Collection) established under
the ARCA, the following shall apply:
(1) In the case of papers, maps, and other documentary materials, the
Assassination Records Review Board may determine that record copies of

_ Government records, either the signed original, original production or a

- ~ reproduction that has béen treated as the official record maintained to chronicle

22


DRAFT

government functions or activities, may be placed in the JFK Assassination
Records Collection;

(2) ‘Inthe case of other papers, maps, and other documentary material, the
Assassination Records Review Board may determine that a true and accurate
copy in lieu of the original may be placed in the JFK Assassination Records
Collection; :

(3) Inthe case of photographs, the original negative, whenever

available (otherwise, the earliest generation print that is a true and accurate
copy) may be placed in the JFK Assassination Records Collection;

(4) Inthe case of motion pictures, the camera original, whenever
available (otherwise, the earliest generation print that is a true and accurate
copy), may be placed in the JFK Assassination Records Collection; :

(5) Inthe case of sound and video recordings, the original recording,
whenever available (otherwise, the earliest generation copy that is a true and
accurate copy), may be placed in the JFK Assassination Records Collection;
(6) In the case of machine-readable information, a true and accurate

copy of the original (duplicating all information contained in the original and in
a format that permits retrieval of the information) may be placed in the JFK
Assassination Records Collection; and

(7) __ Inthe case of artifacts, the original objects themselves may be

‘placed in the JFK Assassination Records Collection.

23


DRAFT

(b) To the extent records from foreign governments are included in the JFK
Assassination Records Collection, copies of the original records shall be sufficient
for inclusion in the collection.

(?) In cases where a copy, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section above, is
authorized by the Assassination Records Review Board to be included in the JFK

Assassination Records Collection, the Assassination Records Review Board may,

at its discretion if it determines it to be necessary to ensure the integrity of the

JFK Assassination Records Collection, require a certified copy. In cases where an
original, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, is required for inclusion in
the JFK Assassination Records Collection the Assassination Records Review
Board may, at its discretion, accept the best available copy. In such cases that
records included in the collection, whether originals or copies, contain illegible
portions, such records shall have attached fee a certified transcription of the
illegible language to the extent practicable.

(d) For purposes of implementing the ARCA, the term copy means a true and
accurate photocopy duplication by a means appropriate to the medium of the
original record that preserves and displays the integrity of the record and the
information contained in it.

(e) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to suggest that additional

copies of any assassination records contained in the JFK Assassination Records

Collection are not also assassination records that, at the Assassination Records

24


DRAFT

Review Board's discretion, may also be placed in the JFK Assassination Records

Collection.

(f) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prevent or preclude copies

of any assassination records, and particularly assassination records in
audiovisual or machine readable formats, from being made from time to time in
the professional judgment of and at the discretion of the National Archives and
Records Administration for purposes of preservation or reformatting to conform

to different hardware and/or software requirements.

§1400.7 Additional guidance.

(a) A government agency, office, or entity includes, for purposes of
interpreting and implementing the ARCA, all current, past, and former
departments, agencies, offices, divisions, foreign offices, bureaus, and
deliberative bodies of any federal, state, or local government and includes all
inter- or intra-agency working groups, committees, and meetings that possess or
created records relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

(b) The inclusion of artifacts in the scope of the term assassination

record is understood to apply solely for purposes of establishing the JFK
Assassination Records Collection and for fully implementing the terms of the
ARCA and has no direct or indirect bearing on the interpretation or
implementation of any other statute or regulation.

© _Inthe case of artifacts deemed tobe assassination records and included in

25


DRAFT

the JFK Assassination Records Collection, the provision to the public of
photographs, drawings, or similar materials depicting the artifacts shall be
sufficient to comply with the ARCA's requirement that copies of assassination
records be provided to the public upon request. Additional display of or
examination by the public of artifacts in the JFK Assassination Records Collection
shall occur under the terms and conditions established by the National Archives
and Records Administration to ensure their preservation and protection for
posterity.

(d) The terms and, or, any, all, and the plural and singular forms of nouns
shall be understood in their broadest and most inclusive sense and shall not be
understood to be terms of limitation.

(e) Unless the Assassination Records Review Board in its sole discretion

directs otherwise, records that are identified with respect to a particular person

"shall include all records relating to that person that use or reflect their true name

or any other name, pseudonym, codeword, symbol, number, cryptonym or alias
used to identify that person. :

(f) Unless the Assassination Records Review Board in its sole discretion
directs otherwise, records that are identified by the Assassination Records

Review Board with respect to a particular operation or program shall include all

records pertaining to that program by any other name, pseudonym, codeword,

_ symbol, number or cryptonym.-

26


DRAFT
, §1400.8 Implementing the ARCA - Notice of Assassination Record
(a) A Notice of Assassination Record Designation shall be the mechanism for
the Assassination Records Review Board to announce publicly its determination
that a record or group of records meets the definition of assassination records.
(b) —_ Notice of all designations will be published in the Federal Register within
_ 30 days of the decision to designate such records as assassination records.

In determining that a record or group of records theets the definition of
assassination records, the Assassination Records Review Board must determine
that the record or group of records will more likely than not enhance, enrich, and

broaden the historical record of the assassination.


ia

awe Patter oe -

ih.

Calendar No. 552

102p Concress Report
‘2d Session SENATE { 102-328,

THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION
RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992

REPORT
OF THE
COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
UNITED STATES SENATE

TO ACCOMPANY

S. 3006

TO PROVIDE FOR THE EXPEDITIOUS DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
RELEVANT TO THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F.
KENNEDY

JuLy 22 (legislative day, Juty 20), 1992.—Ordered to be printed

~ "UB. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
& 59-010 WASHINGTON : 1992

S.Rept. 102-328 0 - 97 -- 1


21

tion, it is important to emphasize and clarify the legislative intent
and importance of particular provisions of the Act. :
Defining assassination records

“Assassination records” are defined in Section 3. The definition
of “assassination records” is a threshold consideration for the suc-
cessful implementation of the Act. Its scope will be the barometer -
of public confidence in the release of assassination records. While

. the records of past presidential commissions and congressional

committees established to investigate the assassination of President
Kennedy are included as assassination records under this Act, it is
intended and emphasized that the search and disclosure of records
under this Act must go beyond those records. While such records
are valuable, they reflect the views, theories, political constraints,
and prejudices of past inquiries. Proper implementation of this Act
and providing the American public with the opportunity to judge
the surrounding history of the assassination for themselves, re-
quires including not only, but going beyond, the records of the
Warren and Rockefeller Commissions, and the Church and House
Select Assassination Committees.

The term “assassination record” was not more specifically de-
fined by the Committee because. to do-so before more is known
about the universe of records would have been premature, and
would have further injected the government between the records
and the American public. There is a sufficient volume of known as-
sassination records to organize and review at the outset. However,
it is intended that the Review Board issue guidance to assist in ar-
ticulating the scope or universe of assassination records as govern-
ment offices and the Review Board undertakes their responsibil-
ities. Such guidance will be valuable notwithstanding the fact that
(pekabo offices will begin to organize and review their records

fore the Review Board is established. Government offices are re-

quired to begin the review and disclosure of records upon enact-
ment to expedite public access to the many records which do not
require additional review or postponement. However, the ultimate
work of the Review Board will involve not only the review of
records recommended for postponement, but requiring rnment
offices to provide additional information and records, where appro-
priate. Guidance, esy is per that developed in consultation with the
public, scholars, and affected government offices, will prove valia-
ble to ensure the fullest possible disclosure and create public confi-
dence in a working definition that was developed in an independ-
ent and open manner.
Autopsy Records
The Act specifi fically excludes from the definition of “assassi-

nation records” the autopsy records and copies or reproductions
made from such records donated by the Kennedy family pursuant
to a deed of gift-executed on October 29, 1966. These records in-

clude the autopsy photographs and X-rays of President Kennedy.

The Committee believes that this exclusion is a sound policy. The
Committee believes that there is a compelling justification for pro-
tecting the privacy of the Kennedy family from the unwarranted



19

the date of enactment unless, in the case of executive branch
records, the President demonstrates that public disclosure will
result in an identifiable harm to the national security, intelligence
operations, or foreign relations of the United States.

The Assassination Records Review Board is an independent
agency within the executive branch. The five-member Review
Board will be appointed by the President with the advice and con-
sent of the United States Senate. The confirmation hearings will be
conducted by the Committee on Governmental Affairs. The Act re-
quires that the Review Board include at least one historian and
one attorney, and that each member ‘iis a national recognized pro-
fessional in his or her field. The legislation requires that prior to
making the appointments, the President is required to consider rec-
ommendations from the American Historical Association, the Orga-
nization of American Historians, the Society of American Archi-
vists, and the American Bar Association.

‘To ensure a comprehensive search and disclosure of assassination
records, particularly to enable the public to obtain information and
records beyond the scope of previous official inquiries, the Review
Board has the authority to direct any government office to produce
additional information and records which it believes are related to
the assassination. It has the authority to subpoena private persons
and to enforce the subpoenas through the courts.

The Review Board is authorized for a two-year period and it may
be extended by a majority vote of the Review Board for up to an
additional year. The Review Board-could decide to extend it exist-
ence to less than one year if that is the time determined as neces-
sary to complete its work. Annual financial reports and other peri-
odic reports are required to be provided to the Congress. The re-
Ports must include statements of progress, the level of cooperation
of government offices and agencies, and the possible need for addi-

_ tional time or authority from Congress.

IV. BACKGROUND AND NEED FOR LEGISLATION

On November 22, 1963, President John F. Kennedy was assassi-
nated. It was a tragic and defining moment in American history.
‘The desire by the American public to understand who assassinated
President Kennedy, and why, has resulted in several official inves-
tigations and a broad spectrum of private inquiries and scholar-
ship. Unfortunately, in the eyes of the public, each investigation
and inquiry served to raise additional questions, and did so while
increasing the volume of secret government records about the as-
sassination. In 1992, the public demand, fostered by increased
media attention, the opening of secret files by changi overn-
ments around the world, and other factors, culminated in the rec-
ognition by the Congress and the Executive Branch that the
records related to the assassination of President Kennedy should be
fully disclosed. :

In addition to the legislation considered by the Committee, and
its counterpart considered by the House Committee on Government
Operations, four other related, though more limited, measures:
were introduced in the House of Representatives in 1992. Two bills
mandating the release of all Kennedy assassination investigation


7506

“_ Federal Register / Vol. 60, No. 26 / Wednesday, February 8, 1995 / Propossd Rutes

. (B) For dependents of active duty

members in pay grades of E-S and ~
above, $25; and,

(C} For retirees and their dependents,”
$25.

(vi) The copayment for prescription
Pet prescription, for a maximum
30-day supply. fs as follows:

(A) For dependents of active duty
mombors in pay grades E-1 through E—
4, $5; :

(B) For dependents of active duty
members in pay grades of E-S and
above, $5; and,

(C) For retirees and their dependents,

(vii) The copayment for ambulanco
services is as follows:

(A) For dependents of active duty
members {n pay grades of E~1 through -
E-4, $10,

(8) For dependents of active duty
mombors in pay grades of E-S and’
above, $15; and,

(C) For retirees and their dependents,
S20.

(e) Inpatient cost sharing :
requirements under the Uniform HMO-
Benefit—{1) In general. tn liow of usual
CHLAMPUS cost sharing roquiruments
(see § 199.4(), spocal cost sharing
ammounts are required. Tho specific
requirements shall be uniform and shall
be published as a notice annually bythe
Assistant Socretary of Defense (Health
Affairs)

(2) Structure of cost sharing. For
services other than mental illness or
substance use treaunent, there is @
naminal copayment for active duty
dependents and for retired members,
dependents of retired members, and
survivors. Far inpatient meatal health
and substance use treatment, a separate.
per day charge is established.

. (3) Amount of inpatient cost sharing

fequirements. Beginning in fiscal year

1995, tho inpatient cost sharing
utrements are ax follows:

i) For acute care admissions and
other non-mental health/substance use
treatment admissions, the per diem.
charge is as follows, with a minimum

of $25 per admission:

{A) For dependents of active duty
members in pay grades E~1 through E—
4,513;

(B) For dependents of active duty
members in pay grades of E-S and
above, Si1;and, |

(C) For rotirees and their dependents,

$11.

Gi) For mental health/substanco use
treatment admissions, and for partial
hospitalization services, the per diem
charge Is es follows, with @ minimum
charge of $25 per admission:

(A) For dependents of active duty
members in pay grades E-1 through E-
4.$20;

(B) For dependents of active duty
members tn pay grades of E-S and
above, $20; and,

(C) For retirees and their dopendents,

0.

$40.

(0 Updates. The enrollment fees for
fiscal year 1995 set under paragraph (c)
of this section and the per services
specific dollar amounts for fiscal
1495 set under paragraphs (d) and (e) of
this section mey be updated for
subsequent years to the extent necessary.
to mainteit compliance with statutory
roquirements pertaining to government
costs. This updating does not apply to
cost sharing that is expressed as a
Porcentage of allowable charges; these
Percentages will remain unchanged.

{g) Applicability of the Uniform HMO
Benefit ta Uniformed Services
Treatment Facilities Managed Care
Program. The provisions of this section
concerning the Uniform HMO Benefit
shall apply to the Uniformed Sorvices
‘Treatment Facilities Managed Care
Program, effective October 1, 1995.
Under that program, non-CHAMPUS
eligible beneficiaries have the same
Payment responstbilities es CHANSPUS-
eligible beneficiaries.

Dated. February 2, 1995.

LM Bymuro,

Alternate OSD Federol Hexuster Larson
Officer, Department of Lefense.

IFR Doc. 95-3028 Filed 2-27-95, 8 45 aru}
beLUa CODE 4000-04-44

paSESEESE ESTE CEEEEPREEEERSS Asses esipeescasvaceneny

ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW
BOARD

36 CFR Part 1400

Guidance on toterpreting and
Implementing the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

AGENCY: Assassination Records Review

Board (ARRB).

ACTION: Proposed interpretive
regulation.

SUMMARY: The ARRB proposes to issue
regulations providing guidance on the
interpretation of certain terms defined
in and the implementation of the
President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992.

DATES: To be considered, comments.
must be received on or befora March 10,
1995.

ADDRESSES: Comments should be
mailed to the Assassination Kecards
Review Board at 6uU E Suet, NW,
Socond Nvor, Washington, D.C. 20530 or
dehivored in person tu that address"

—=—=—_—_
between the hours of 9:30 am. and 4:30
p.m., Monday through Friday (except

legal holidays). Comments may also be
faxed to the Board at (202) 724-0457,
Comments received may be inspected in
the Board's public reading room, located
at the address shown above, between 10
a.m. and J p.m. Monday through Friday
{except legal holidays). Parsons wishing

to inspect comments in the Board's

public reeding rvom sould call the
Doard's office beforehand at (202) 724
0088 for further information.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:

Sheryl L. Walter (Ceacral Counsel),

(202) 724-0088.

+ SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

Background

‘The President Jon F. Kannedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992, 44 U.S.C 2107 note (as amended)
(ARCA), established the President John
F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection (the JFK Collection) at the
Nauanal Archives and Records .-
Admunistration (NARA). In. establishing
the procoss for public disclosure of all ~~
records relating to tho assassination,
Congress created an independent »; y
within the execubve branch, the med
Assassination Records Review Board
(the Board), which consists of five
citizens appointed by the President
Under the statute, the Board is
empowered to deade “whether a record
Constitutes an assassination record.” 44
USC 2107 nota,
Congress further lear its intent
that the Board “issue guidance to assist
ina lating the scope or universe of
assassination records." President Joho
F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992, S.Rep. 102-328,
102d Cong.. 2d Sess. (1992) at 21.

In constructing the proposed guidance
set out here, the Board seeks to

* implement congressfonal intent that the

JFK Collection contain “the most
comprehensive disclosure of records*
related to the assassination of Presidont
Kennedy.” Id. at 18. The Board is also
mindful of Congress's instruction that
the Board opply a “broad and
encompassing” working definition of
“assassination record” in order to
achieve the goal of assembling the
fullest historical record on this tragi
event in American history and on the
investigations that were undertaken in-
the assassination’s atermath. The Board
recognizes that many agencies have
already begun to organize and review
records responsive to the ARCA even
before the Buard was appointed and
‘began {ts work. Nevertheless, the
Board's aim is that this guidance will
ald in the ultimate assombly and public



- Federal Register / Vol. 60. No. 26 / Wednesda:

locure of the fullest possiblo
histancal record on this tragedy and on

“subsequent investugations and inquires

into it.
The Board's proposed guidance is

. designed to bolp goverament agencies |

and the Board identify and make
available ta the public all documents
that will onhanco, enrich, and broaden
the historical record of the assassination
of Prosidont John F. Kennedy. The
Buord socks through this guidance to
fulfill Congress's “inton{t} and omphasis
that tho search and disclosure of records
under this Act must go beyond” the
records of previous commissions and
committees established to invosugate
President Konnody’s assassination. Id. at
21. The Board also soeks to provide
notice of the scope of its intended
exercise of authority to seek additional
information or records in order to fulfill
its functions and tesponsibilitios under
the ARCA,

In addition, the Board propases to
create a mochanism to facilitate the
Board's ongoing work and to further
ensure future public access to the
broadest possible historical record. This
mechanism will be known as the
“Catelog of Assassination Records"
(COAR). The COAR is intended to be an
offictal listing of all records determined
by the Board to meet the definition of
“assassination record” and included in
the JFK Collection.

Request for Comments

‘The Board seeks public comment on
its proposed interpretive regulations
intended to provide guidance on the
intorpretation of the term assassination
record, the intended scope of its
exercise of authority to seek additional
information or records, and its
additional proposals for implomontetion
of tho ARCA.

List of Subjects in 36 CFR Part 1400

Administrative practice and
Procedure, Archives and records.

Accordingly, the Assassination
Records Review Board hereby proposes
toestablish a new chapter XIV in title

36 of the Code of Federal Regulations to fy

sued as follows:

CHAPTER XIV—ASSASSINATION
RECORDS REVIEW BOARD

PART 1400—GUIDANCE FOR
INTERPRETATION AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY
ASSASSINATION RECORDS
COLLECTION ACT OF 1992 (ARCA)

Soc.

1400.1 Interpretation of assassinotton
record, 2

140.2. Interpretation of additional records
wud tetonnation.

14003 Sources of assassination records and
additional records and informat

1600.4 lyper of materials Include
‘of sssussination record and add
records and information.

1400.5 Requirement that essassination
fecords be released In their enurely

1400.6 Originals and capies.

1400.7 Additional guidance

1400 8 Implementing the ARCA—Catelog of
Assassination Records

Authority: 44 U S.C. 2107 note.

$1400.1 Interpretation of assassination
record.

(a) An assassination record includes,
but és not hmited to, all records, public
and private, regardless of how labeled or
identified, that documont, descnbe,
Teport, analyze, or interprot activitics
and events that may have'led to the
assassination of President John F.
Kennedy; the assassination itself: and
Investigations of ur ingutiries into the
assassination. -

(>) An assassination record furthor
includos, without limatation:

(1) All records as defined in Soc. 3(2)
of Ure ARCA;

(2) All records called by or segregated
by all foderal, state, and local Bee
government agencies in conjunction
with any investigation or nalysis of or
inquiry into the assassination of
President Kennedy (for example, any
{ntra-agency investigation or analysis of
ot inquiry into the assassination; any
inter-agency communication regarding
tho assassination; any request by the
House Select Committee on _
Assassinations to collect documents and
othor materials; or any inter- or intra-
agency collection or sogecgation of
documents and other materials); -

(3) Other records or groups of records
listed in the Cawlog of Assassination
Records, as described in § 1400.8 of this
chapter.

$1400.2 Interpretation of additional
fecords and Information.

The term odditional information and
records includes:

(a) All documents used by
governmont offices and agencies during
thelr declassification review of

February 8, 1995 / Proposed Rules

7507

assussination records as well es all other
documents, indices; records, and uther
matorial that disclosc cryptonyms, code
nanos, or othor identification materia!
in assassination rocords.

(b) All waining manuals, instructional
materials, and guidelines created or
used by the agencies {n furtharance of
tholr roview of assassination records.

(c) All records, lists, and documents
describing the procedure by which the
egoncies identified or selocted
assassination records for review.

(d) Organizational charts of
government agencies.

(0) Records nocassary and sufficient to
descnbe the agency"s:

(1) Records polictes and schedules:

(2) Filing systems and organization;
an

(3) Storage facilities and locations.

§ 1400.3 Sources of assassination records
and additional records and Information.

Assassination records and additional
records and information may bo located .
at, or under the control of, without
Amitation: i: sie

(a) Agencies, offices, and entities-of
the executive, logislativo, and judicial
branches of tho federal government:

(b) Agencies, offices, and entities of
the executive, legislative, and judicial -
branches of state and local governments;

(c) Record repositories and archives of
foderal, state, and local governments,
including presidential libraries;

(d) Record ropositories and archives
of universities, libraries, historical
socieles, and other similar
‘organizations;

(0) Individuals who possess such
records by virtue of service with a
government  offico, or entity;

{0 Porsons, including individuals and
corporations, who have obtained such
records from sources identified in
paragraphs (a) through (e) of this
section:

() Federal, stato, and local courts E
where such records are being hold
undor seal; or

(L) Foreign governments.

$ 1400.4 Types of materials included in
‘Scope of assassination record and
additlonal records and Information.

Tho term record In assassination
record and additional records-and -
information includes, for Purposes of
intorpreting and implementing the
ARCA:

(e) Papers, maps, and other
documentary matorial; *

{b) Photographs;

{c) Motion pictures;

(4) Sound-and video recording:

(0) Machino readable informati
any form; and -



|

7508

* Federal Repister / Vol. 60. No. 26 / W

ednesday, February 8, 1995 / Propused Rules

() Artifacts.

1400.6 Requirement that assassination
fecords be released In thelr entiraty.

An assassination record shall be
disclosed in its entirety except for
porttons specifically postponed
pursuant to the grounds for
postponement of public disclosura of
records established in section 6 of the
ARCA, and no portions of any
assassination recards shall be withheld
from public disclosure solely an
grounds of non-relevance.

§1400.6 Originals end coples.

{a) For purposes of determining
whother originals or capies of
assassination records may bo made part
of tha President John F. Keanedy
Assassination Records Collection (the
JFK Records Collection) to be
establishod under the ARCA:

(1) In the case of papers, maps, and
other documentary material,the
Assassination Records Review Board
{the Board) may determine that a true
and accurate copy of the original is
sufficient;

(2) Tn the case: of photographs. the
term record means the original negative
if available. otherwisa, the earliest
generation pnt;

(3) ln-the case of motion pictures; the
term record means the.camera anginal
if available, otherwise, the earliest
generation print,

(4) lo the case of suuud and video
rocordings, the term record means the
original recording, if available,
otherwise, the earliest generation copy;

(5) In the case of machine-readable
information, the Board may determine
that a true and accurate copy of the
original is sufficient; and

(6) Artifacts means the original object
itsolf.

(b) In cases where a copy, as dofined
in paragtaph (a) of this section is
authorized by the Board to be included
in the JFK Records Collection the Board
may, at its discretion, require a certified
copy. In cases where an original, as
defined in paragraph (a) of this section,
is required for inclusion in the JFK
Records Collection the Board may, at its
discretion, accept the best avai
copy.

§ 1400.7 Additional guidance: a

(a) A government agency, office, or
entity includes, for purposes of
interpreting and implementing the
ARCA. all departments, agencies,

« offices, divisions, foreign offices,

buroaus, and deliberative bodies of any
federal, state, or local government and
includes oll inter or intra-agency
working groups, cummitiees, and

mootings that possess or croated rocords
relating to the assassination of Prosident
Jobn F. Kennedy.

(b) The inclusiun of orufocts in tha
scope of the term assassination record is
understood to apply solely for purposes
of establishing the President Joho F.
Konnedy Assassination Records
Collection and for fully implementing
the terms of the ARCA and has no direct
or indirect bearing on the interpretation
or implementation of any other statute
or regulation.

{c) In the case of artifacts deemed to
be assassination records and included io
the John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection, provision to the
public of photographs, drawings, or
similar materials depicting Ue artifacts
shall be sufficient to comply with the
ARCA‘s requirament that copios of
assassination records be provided to the
public upon request. Other display to or
examination by the public of artifacts in
the John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection shall occur under
terms and conditions established by the
National Archives and Records
Administration that are adequato to
preserve and protect the artifacts for
posterity. |

(2) Tho terms and, or, any, all, and the
plural and singular forins of nouns shall
be understood in their broadcast and
most inclusive sense and shall nat be
understood to be terms of limitation.
Any records idenufied with respect to a
particular person also includes any
tecords for that person by any other
name, pseudonym, codeword, symbol,
number, cryptonyn or alias. Any record

described with respect to an operation’ ~

or program inctudes any record
pertaining to that program by any other
name, pseudonyin, codeword, symbol,
number or cryptonym.

§ 1400.8 Implementing the ARCA—Catalog
of Assassination Records.

{2) A Catalog of Assassination Records
{COAR) shall be created as tho official
listing of all records determined by the
Board to meet the definition of
assassination record, :

_ bo) Notice of all decisions to include
records in the-COAR will be-published
in the Federal Register within 30 days
of the decision.

(c) In Usting records or groups of
records in the COAR, the Roard must
detennine that the record or group of
records will more likely than uot
enhance, enrich, and broaden the
historical record of the assassination.

Dated: February 3, 1995.
David G. Marwell,

Executive Director, Assassination Records
Review Board.

{FR Doc. 95-3112 Filed 2-7-98;
ILLNG CODE 6820-10-46

4S amt

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY

40 CFR Parts St and 93

[FRL—S149-4)

Transportation Conformity Rule
Amendments: Transition to the Control
Strategy Period

AGENCY: Environmental Protoction
Agency (EPA).

ACTION: Proposed rule.

SUMMARY: This action proposes to
permanently align the timing of certain
transportation conformity consequences
with the imposition of Clean Air Act *

bighway sanctions. For ozone lees
Ronattaiument areas with an incomplete _

15% emissions-roduction state
implementation plan with e protective
finding; incomplete ozone attainmen
3% rate-of-progress plan; or finding of
failure to submit an ozone attainment/
3% rate-of-progress plan, and areas —
whose control strategy implementation
plan for ozone, carbon monoxide,

“particulate matter, or nitrogen diuxide is

disap proved with a protective finding,
the conformity status of the
transportation plan and program would
not lapse as @ result of such failure until
sanctions for such failure are
effective under other Clean Air Act
sections.

This action would delay the lapse in
conformity status, which would
otherwise pravent approval of now
highway and transit projects, and allow
States more time to prevent the lapse by
submitting complete ozone
implementation plans. :

A has published in the finel rule
section of this Federal Register 9 similar
interim final rule which takes effect
immediately and ay for six months.
This proposal would apply the
provisions of the interim final rule
permanently.

OATES: Comments on this action must be
received by March 10, 1995. A public
hearing will be held at 10:30 a.m. on
February 22, 1995 in Washington, DC.
ADORESSES: Interested parties may
submit written commonts (in duplicate,
if possible) to: Air and Radiation Docket
and Infonnation Center, U:
Environmental Protection Agency,
Attention: Docket No.-A-95~02, 401 M
Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460.



ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

CSI-0316/95
16 February 1995

NOTE FOR: D/IM/ADDA/IS
DCI/IRO
DA/IRO
DI/IRO
DO/IRO
DS&T/IRO
OGC (Bob Eatinger)
DD/OCA
C/IP&CRD
C/RDP/MSG/OIT

FROM: John Pereira
Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: JFK Assassination Records -
Proposed Regulations

1. Attached for your review and comment is a copy of
proposed regulations prepared by the JFK Assassination
Records Review Board. The regulations focus on the
definition of “assassination record", which is very broad.
The possibility of requiring additional records searches is
raised.

2. The Board plans to discuss the regulations at its
next meeting on 6-7 March, so it would be helpful to give
the Board our input in advance of that meeting. Please
provide Barry Harrelson (x30292) or me (x80373) with your
comments by 1 March.

John F. Pereira

Attachment

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


er re De Ans

to: __ John Pereira, CLA Historical Review Program
ax H#: (703) 24 ) 243.8343

re: ARRB proposed interpretive regulations
date: February 9, 1995

pages: 4, including cover sheet.

Dear John:

Following this cover sheet is a courtesy copy of the Assassination
Records Review Board's proposed interpretive regulations, published yesterday in the
Federal Register. The proposed regulations include guidance on interpretation of the
scope of certain provisions of the Assassination Records Collection Act, including the
terms “assassination record” and “additional records and information." The Buard is
soliciting comment from all interested parties and would welcome any comments that
the CIA may have. (The comment period is 30 days; the deadline is March 10.)

If you have any questions or need any additional information, please
don't hesitate to give me a call on my direct line or at our main number, 724-0088.

Sincerely,

sno Walter

General Counsel

From the des« of

Sher L Water

Gereral Counsel

__ Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street, NW, Second Floor
Washington, D.C. 20530

(202) 724-0815
Fax (202) 724-0457

\goot


27 February 1995
To: C/HRG
Subj: Review Board's Proposed Regulations

1400.2(e) (3), Storage facilities and locations, presents a
possible conflict with our continuing protection of

1400.5, Requirement that assassination records be released
in their entirety...and no portion withheld solely on
grounds of non-relevance. For that portion of the documents
we have declared non-relevant that is operational and is
clearly non-relevant we should argue strongly with the
Board. The Director's statutory responsibility for the
protection of sources and methods must be defended; and we
can be sure that it was not anticipated that a KGB officer
in Mexico City would be transferred to another country and
go on generating much operational information. Furthermore,
we saw it as the Board's responsibility to review the
records we identified as non-relevant and to support
publicly those of our decisions that they felt were
justified!

1400.6, Originals and copies, could cause problems if the
Board gets fussy about it. Originals of memos sent outside
the agency would be gone(to the addressee). Originals of
cables and despatches are virtually non-existant.

1400.8(c),”...the Board must determine that the record or
group of records will more likely than not enhance, enrich,
and broaden the historical record..” Like some of this stuff
might be non-relevant?

Frank


New Note

NOTEFOR: €dwanP_Matiem@ OC!
FROM: @John N. Gree
DATE: O2/27195 06:02:46 PM

SUBJECT: JIM Records

This is in response to vour request that { review ASAF the propused regulations hy the JFK
Assassination Records Review Board.

1 See Sheryt Watters hand very much in evidance hare { see from the attachment that she is the Board's
Gc.

Lace you, ! am very concemed about the breadth of the reg’s definitions The key ta keep in mind 1s the
‘Sflantory authority for the Board. | woutd argue that the definition of “assassination record” in the statute
(44 U.B.C. section 2107 note. section 3(2) of the Act) is nore limited than the-reg. The statute defines an
assassination record ac one “rolated™ to the assassination of JFK. Thus, when section 1400.2 (d) and (ei
of the req authorize Board access fo organizational charts of governmental agencies and records
necessary am Sufficient to describe tha agency's records policiss and schedules. fing avstems and
organeation, and storage facilities and locations, | wnuld argue that such intormation Is way too far afield.
There Is no way we can aflow the Board to have access fo this information, which in any event is
prohibited by section 403g from disclosure notwithstanding any other law

The same issue arises with respect to section 1400.7(d) of the reg that proposes to Include in-tng
dafinition of record any records for a person by another name or personal identher. This would aopear to
authorize Board access to all information about an agent who may have onty been tangentially mvotved in
tha accacemnation but whose crypt is qivan in many other unrelated documents about unrelated
operatians. Talk about your camels nase under the tent!

Finally. section 1409.5 of the reg ratses an old dng af an issue. The National Secunty Archive (Sharyts
ofc employer has been fighting for a long time in FOIA Itigation that the [OIA refers to records and that
therefore all infarmation im a responsive record must be released uniecs othonwico oxompt. There rs n°
FOIA exemption, they arque. for non-responsive matenal in a record. This is a big problem for multi-tope
documents, such asthe NID. We of course, argue that agencies are onty required to process that which
ts asked for and delete non-responsive material as unrequested. The proposed reg would maan that the
Board would trave access to ail Information in a documem about several unrelated operations or cvents it
that document even mentioned the assassination or anything related fo #. Agaw. the camal's nose

ce: Thomas J. Benjamin@ OC!


ADMINISTRATIV! \L USE ONLY

From the Desk of Robert J. Eatinger

NOTEFOR: J. Bary Harrelson @ DA CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
FROM: Robert J. Eatinger R E I E. A Ss

DATE: 03/01/95 01:46:44 PM SE IN FULL
‘SUBJECT: Comments on proposed JFK reg areas

Here is advance copy:

OGC-95-50522
1 March 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Historical Review Group

FROM: Robert J. Eatinger, Jr.
Assistant General Counsel
Litigation Division, OGC

SUBJECT: Comments on JFK Assassination Records Proposed
Regulation

1. The following are my comments on the Assassination
Records Review Boards proposed interpretive regulations published
in the Federal Register on 8 February 1995.

2. The term assassination record is defined in the
President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992, Pub.L. 102-525, 106 Stat. 3443, Oct. 26, 1992, reprinted at
44 U.S.C. § 2107 note (the Act). Any interpretive definition by
the Board cannot exceed that in the Act. The Acts definition is
found in Section 3(2) and provides:

(a) Assassination record means a record that is related to
the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, that was
created or made available for use by, obtained by, or
otherwise came into possession of

various Federal, State, or local government bodies.

3. The proposed regulation is broader than that in the Act.
The proposed regulation includes as assassination records:

records, public and private, regardless of how labeled or

identified, that document, describe, report, analyze, or
interpret activities and events that may have led to the

a USE ONLY

!


ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERVAL USE ONLY

assassination of President John F. Kennedy; the .
assassination itself; and investigations of or inquiries
into the assassination.

§ 1400.1(a). This language in overbroad in two respects. First,
the phrase events that may have led to is both broader than
relates to as in the Act and provides no articulable standard.
For instance, the theme in the Oliver Stone movie JFK appears to
be that President Kennedy was assassinated as a result of a
conspiracy to keep the war in Vietnam from winding down. Under
the proposed regulation, the Board might consider all records
concerning the war in Vietnam during the Kennedy Administration: -
as being assassination records. Without a standard, the phrase
is permits arbitrary and inconsistent application. Third, it
includes information about investigations and inquiries other
than those conducted by those entities identified in the Act.
Although the Board states that it is following the intent of
Congress in seeking the most comprehensive disclosure of records
related to the assassination, it appears the Board may be
exceeding its authority.

4. The definition further states that assassination record
includes, without limitation ... all records as defined in Sec.
3(2) of the ARCA. See § 1400.1(b)(1). Thus, by its terms it
exceeds the statutory definition. Further, it is unhelpful
because by refusing to limit itself to any articulable class of
records it remains unlimited and subject to constant
re-interpretation by the Board. E : i

5. The proposed definition of additional information and
records under proposed § 1400.2 is objectionable because the
regulation does not provide the intended use of the definition.
The Board may be attempting to provide a definition useful in
interpreting the Boards authority under §7(j) (1) (C) (ii) of the
Act: :

The Review Board shall have the authority to act in a manner
prescribed under this Act including authority to ... direct
a Government office to make available to the Review Board,
and if necessary investigate the facts surrounding,
additional information, records, or testimony from
individuals, which the Review Board has reason to believe .is
required to fulfill its functions and responsibilities under
this Act....

(Emphasis added.) If this is the case, the Board should
expressly so state and provide opportunity for informed comment
on that application, For instance, _proposed § 1400.2(a) includes
all documents used by the agency during its declassification
review. This definition could include requests for legal advice
on particular matters. Such advice would be protected within the
particular agency by attorney-client privilege and should not be
provided to an extra-agency body.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INFERNAL USE ONLY


: ADMINISTRATIVE avery Use ONLY

6. Please call me with any questions or suggestions.

Robert J. Eatinger, Jr.

ce:

ADMINISTRATIVE - ae USE ONLY


. ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

To: el

FROM: John F. Pereira
DATE: 03/02/95 05:07:45 PM
‘SUBJECT: Re: Proposed Regs by JFK Assassination Records Review Board

A number of us have concerns about the broad approach in the proposed regs. Among others, Bob Eatinger has written a memo on the
subject. We are preparing a formal response for the Board, which will be sent around for comment

In the meantime, i have had an informal discussion with the Board's Executive Director, David Marwell, advising him of our concerns. He
has invited us to propose specific textual changes.
The Board's deadline is 10 March.

Any additional thoughts would be welcome

ce: Edmund Cohen @ DA @ DCI, J. Edwin Dietel @ DA @ DCI, Edward P. Moffett,@ DCI, Thomas J. Benjamin @ DCI

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

From the Desk offJahin N. Greer

OcA
NOTE FOR: Edmund Cohen @ DA fi
J..Edwin Dietel @ DA
John F. Pereira @ DA
FROM: <<Aghin N. Greets
DATE: 03/02/95 04:22:48 PM
SUBJECT: Proposed Regs by JFK Assassination Records Review Board

Page and | are very concerned about the overly broad reach of the proposed regulations of the JFK Board. | have prepared specific
comments that | will send by separate cover. In essence, we are concerned that the regs reach too far into Agency records and stray too
far from the definition of an "assassination record” in the law. What input does CIA have into this process and what are the time
constraints? It looks like a power grab. It seems to us that Cohen should engage immediately in his role as Chair of the Agency Release
Panel. The full ARP might wish to address these issues at it 9 March meeting. Please advise.

ce: Edward P. Motfett@ ocl
‘Thomas J. Benjamip:@ DC!

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


4

aad CONFIDENTIAL
NOTE FOR: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA
FROM: ia.
DATE: 03/02/95 09:25:33 AM
‘SUBJECT: Response to the JFK Proposed Regulation

This vehicle seemed to be the best one available to pass my “bullets” to you. Perhaps you can dump them in a Word file and
ammend them with your thoughts.

1400.1 Interpretation of Assassination Record NN
2.) noniiting descriptor “may have led to the assassination” 6 \ ofve en b
makes us vulnerable for capricious search demands \Q
Say RR shew
5

1400.2 Interpretation of Additional Records :
‘u Yo
Mn a7 TEX S re

a.) and b.) This relates to Agency classified resources that refer to

the total Agency mission. - well beyond the “assassination” subject. oe
Now
identification of all such resources will require a separate effort \passs IK AL doe
requiring substantial resources. In addition it may be impossible to rave
identify all such specific resources as the review effort involved bikie who frecncl.

many people having experience throughout the Agency.

These resources are classified and most probably would be
recommended for “indefinite” postponement.

4.) and e.} Information described in these sections has been and is
protected by the National Security Act

oop odes hat at schntmatonweibemate — NleQo\ Conca

available. d0\ 4 or Uae
14005 — That Assassintion Records Be Released In Their a fal

- Nonrelevance issue will most likely result in marked increase in minor mvdluemonrt a

postponed records. R Yo X & & hen 4 ayaa
1400.6 Originals and Copies aut . ectae he. t fi Oe C at

2.) Large portion of CIA's JFK collection is comprised of copes. A frelee Wie Coe vue
search for originals will require a massive resource commitment.
= There atonal saspanl number of previously sanitized { X le we aM Cc, \ cm
“1400.7 Additional Guidance. So ae tii vidine \) we,
“4 Applicaton of this requirement may wel jeopardize cucent Lewll Vowe & wee
om

postponements aimed at protecting Agency personnel and sources Source pe Le a

“round-out” or to verify previous searches and retrieved material...

This requirement also implies a new generation of searches to . a ee tee, \ pollo

ce:


ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

7 March 1995

NOTE FOR: Bob Eatinger, OGC

SUBJECT : JFK Proposed Regulations

As we discussed, I would appreciate your view as to
whether OGC should send a separate paper to the JFK Board on
the proposed regulations.

The attached is what we in HRG propose to coordinate in
the Agency today, 7 March, depending on your view. I'11l
hold off circulating the attached draft for comment until
I've heard from you.

(The Board asks for comments by 10 March.)

John Pereira

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

9 March 1995,
MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA
FROM:
SUBJECT: JFK Assassination Records Proposed Regulations
REFERENCE:

Per your request Anthony Frasketi Goncurs with the proposed regulation.

ce: | @osT
(Rathony R. Frasket};@ DST

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


a ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

= CSI-0319/95
8 March 1995

NOTE FOR: D/IM/ADDA/IS
DCI/IRO
DA/IRO
DI/IRO
DO/IRO
DS&T/IRO
oGc (Bob Eatinger)
DD/OCA
C/IP&CRD
C/RDP/MSG/OIT

FROM: John Pereira
Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: JFK Assassination Records
Proposed Regulations

Please review attached draft comments on the proposed
regulations prepared by the JFK Assassination Review Board.
Our deadline for comments to the Board is 10 March, so

please send me or Barry Harrelson your suggestions by cob

9 March
PELE Eee aes
A
John Pereira
Attachments

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


New

Mr. David Marwell

Dear David,

We appreciate the opportunity to comment on the
Assassination Records Review Board's proposed interpretive
regulations as published in the Federal Register, February
8, 1995. We recognize the value of providing guidance for
those who are responsible for implementing the Assassination
Records Collection Act.

Our general view is that the regulations are
comprehensive in identifying the range of records that would
potentially be relevant to the JFK assassination or the
scope of the investigations into the assassination.

In a few sections of the regulations the wording seems
somewhat overly broad or the meaning is not clear. Attached
for the Board's consideration are comments on these
sections. In some parts of the text we suggest possible
changes in wording for purposes of clarification.

We would be pleased to discuss these comments at the
Board's convenience. It is our intention to continue
cooperating fully with the Board and to make every effort to
release assassination records held by the Agency.

John F. Pereira
Historical Review Group, CIA


Following are CIA's comments on specific sections of the
Assassination Records Review Board's interpretive
regulations, as published in the Federal Register, February
8, 1995.

1. Section 1400.1 Interpretation of Assassination Record

In paragraph (a) the reference to “activities and events
that may have led to the assassination--” seems overly
broad, and appears to go beyond the limits established in
the Assassination Records Collection Act. We believe that
it would be helpful to include an articulable standard in
this section. The present text would permit inconsistent
application of the regulations, which might encourage
massive and expensive, additional records searches that are
of doubtful value. =

The following change is suggested in paragraph (a):

“activities and events that may reasonably be
considered to have led to the assassination--” (This would
be consistent with the Act.)

2. Section 1400.2 Interpretation of additional records and
information

Paragraph (a) raises a question as to the purpose and
definition of “additional records and information.” The
meaning of the phrase “all documents used--during
declassification review of assassination records as well as
all other documents--"seems unclear. Is it the intention to
include any document, book, index, record system, etc.
regardless of relevance to the assassination or
investigations, including for example, legal opinions ? We
assume that the purpose is to enable the Board to request
and review additional records.

We suggest that the section be made more specific,
including a clearer statement of the intent. For example,
with respect to cryptonyms, codewords, guides, etc. a more
precise link to events related to the assassination or to a
timeframe could be helpful.


3. Section 1400.5 Requirement that assassination records
be released in their entirety

The introductory paragraph specifies that “no portions
of any assassination record shall be withheld--solely on
grounds of non-relevance.” This appears to open the door
for access to entire documents that contain information on
sensitive activities even when the documents contain.
information that is only incidental to the assassination,
such as a passing reference to a name. There is a potential
risk that sensitive, non-relevant sources and methods would
be compromised.

We suggest that the Board consider adding wording to this
section that accommodates those instances when there is a
need to release ample information from a document to
disclose assassination-related material, while still
protecting obviously unrelated, sensitive information. The
Board, of course, would continue to have access to the
entire record.

4. Section 1400.7 Additional guidance

Paragraph (d) states “any records identified with
respect to a particular person also includes any records for
that person by any other name, pseudonym, codeword,” etc.
This appears to require that all records on any individuals
who are merely mentioned in an assassination record be made
available. Is the objective really to assure that all files
on an individual or activity be made available regardless of
the labels on the files ? If so, we suggest that the text be
modified to reflect this. -


In the letter to David, I would add at the end of the third
paragraph:

“Our Office of General Counsel provided some legal comments
on the scope of the definition that we've included in the
attached.”

In the attachment under the comments to Section 1400.1:

After the first sentence, ending with “peyond the limits
established by the [ARCA]”, I suggest adding the following
sentences:

“The Act authorized the Board to issue interpretive
regulations. Interpretive regulations, while entitled to great
deference, cannot be inconsistent with the congressional intent
to cover only certain specific activities. Rather, they should
stay within the clearly articulated definitions provided by
Congress. This is particularly important with respéct to the
definition of “assassination records” since the ARCA has a
overriding effect on other statutory grants of power found
necessary in the interests of national security, such as the
National Security Act's direction that the Director of Central
Intelligence protect intelligence sources and methods from
unauthorized disclosure. The ARCA provides a statutory standard
for protecting or “postponing” intelligence sources and methods”
that applies only to “assassination records.” The standard in
the ARCA restricts those sources and methods that can be
protected in assassination records. The Review Board is given
the ultimate authority to apply that standard, subject to being
overridden only by the President. Thus, the ARCA reflects a
congressional desire to limit the DCI's authority to protect
sources and methods, but only for “assassination records” as ARCA
defined it. An interpretive definition by the Board that would
sweep in records not covered by the Act, we believe, would exceed
the Board's limited rulemaking authority. Thus, the proposed
definition should be limited more clearly to those records
identified by Congress as “assassination records. To do this, we
believe ....”


In the letter to David, I would add at the end of the third
paragraph:

“Our Office of General Counsel provided some legal comments
on the scope of the definition that we've included in the
attached.”

In the attachment under the comments to Section 1400.1:

After the first sentence, ending with “beyond the limits
established by the [ARCA]”, I suggest adding the following
sentences:

“The Act authorized the Board to issue interpretive
regulations. Interpretive regulations, while entitled to great
deference, cannot be inconsistent with the congressional intent
to cover only certain specific activities. Rather, they should
stay within the clearly articulated definitions provided by
Congress. This is particularly important with respect to the
definition of “assassination records” since the ARCA has a
overriding effect on other statutory grants of power found
necessary in the interests of national security, such as the
National Security Act's direction that the Director of Central
Intelligence protect intelligence sources and methods from
unauthorized disclosure. The ARCA provides a statutory standard
for protecting or “postponing” intelligence sources and methods”
that applies only to “assassination records.” The standard in
the ARCA restricts those sources and methods that can be
protected in assassination records. The Review Board is given
the ultimate authority to apply that standard, subject to being
overridden only by the President. Thus, the ARCA reflects a
congressional desire to limit the DCI's authority to protect
sources and methods, but only for “assassination records” as ARCA
defined it. An interpretive definition by the Board that would
sweep in records not covered by the Act, we believe, would exceed
the Board's limited rulemaking authority. Thus, the proposed
definition should be limited more clearly to those records
identified by Congress as “assassination records. To do this, we
believe ....”

+
. Ths oo
2. Ceniene/ Cow woot frauen ices
3

‘S$


2. Following are comments on specific sections of the
Assassination Records Review Board's interpretive
regulations, as published in the Federal Register, February
8, 1995.

a. Section 1400.1 Interpretation of Assassination Record

In paragraph (a) the reference to “activities and events
that may have led to the assassination--” seems overly
broad, and appears to go beyond the limits established in
the Assassination Records Collection Act. We believe that
it would be helpful to include an articuable standard in
this section. The present text would permit inconsistent
application of the regulations, which might encourage
massive and expensive, additional records searches that are
of doubtful value.

The following change is suggested in paragraph (a):

“activities and events that may reasonably be --
considered to have led to the assassination--” (This would
be consistent with the Act.)

b. Section 1400.2 Interpretation of additional records
and information

Paragraph (a) raises a question as to the purpose and
definition of “additional records and information.” The
meaning of the phrase “all documents used--during
declassification review of assassination records as well as
all other documents--”seems overly broad and unclear. As
presently worded, this section would appear to include any
document, book, index, record system, etc. regardless of
relevance to the assassination or investigations, including
for example, legal opinions. We assume that the purpose is
to enable the Board to request and review additional
records.

We suggest that the section be made more specific,
including a clearer statement of the intent. For example,
with respect to cryptonyms, codewords, guides, etc. a more
precise link to events related to the assassination or toa
timeframe could be helpful.

c. Section 1400.5 Requirement that assassination records
be released in their entirety ~

The introductory paragraph specifies that “no portions of
any assassination record shall be withheld--solely on
grounds of non-relevance.” This appears to open the door
for access to entire documents that contain information on


sensitive activities even when the documents contain
information that is only incidental to the assassination,
such as a passing reference to a name. There is a potential
risk that sensitive, non-relevant sources and methods would
be compromised. -

We suggest that the Board consider adding wording to this
section that accommodates those instances when there is a
need to release ample information from a document to
disclose assassination-related material, while still
protecting obviously unrelated, sensitive information. The
Board, of course, would continue to have access to the
entire record.

d. Section 1400.7 Additional guidance

Paragraph (d) states “any records identified with respect
to a particular person also includes any records for that
person by any other name, pseudonym, codeword,” etc. This
appears to require that all records on any individuals -who
are merely mentioned in an assassination record be made
available. We assume that the purpose is more specific
i.e., to assure that all files on an individual or activity
be made available regardless of the labels on the files. We
suggest that the text be modified to reflect this.


MAR Bt "95 12:51PM
Ae ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY i

1 March 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: John Pereira
Barry Harrelson

CSI/ERG
FROM: Kathryn I, Dyer
DI/IRO
SUBJECT: Comments--ARRB Proposed Interpretive Regulations

1. I have reviewed the proposed interpretive regulations
drafted by the Assassination Records Review Board, particularly
the sections addressing the ARRB's interpretation of the scope of
certain provisions of the Assassination Records Collection Act.
While I have comments on a number of sections, there is one
section in particular which raises serious concernsa--principally
1400.2 regarding additional information and records.

2. As presently worded, this section opens up significant
records which have nothing to do per se with the assassination,
an@ which are currently protected by various laws, including the
National Security Act of 1947, and, moreover, are exempt from
disclosure under the Preedom of Information Act.

For example, (d) Organizational charts of government agencies.
(e) Records necessary and sufficient to describe the
the Agency's:
(1) Records policies and schedules;
(2) Piling systems and organization; and
(3) Storage facilities and location.

Items (a) and (b) of this section ( 1400.2) also pose similar
problema in that (a) includes all documents used by agencies
during their declassification review...This includes all
materials including omnibus classification guides or other
materials (i.e. not merely those prepared for use in the JFK
review) which would identify sensitive material across the board.
Similarly, item (b) includes materials "created fel

agencies in furtherance of their review...." This entire section
should at a minimum be restricted to items created by agencies
for use in the assassination reviews. For example, if the DO has
a master list of cryptonyms, some of which appear in JFK
documents, only the subset should be included. Generic
categories of information which stand alone on their own merits
should be omitted. :

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY


,

MRR @1 "9S 12:52PM

: ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY ee

Recommend: Delete items (d) and (e). Subpart (a) should be
confined to documents created by agencies (vice used) during
their declassification review.

The inclusion of generic categories of information, i.e., those
created independent of the assassination investigation(s) and
review effort, appears to be a calculated effort to gain access
to significant areas of information that are protected by other
laws (i.e., circumvention of the FOIA.)

If provisions (d) and (e) are not deleted and a and b
not limited to materials created by or created solely for use in
the assassination review, an additional section should be added
that applies to section 1400.2 in its entirety. This should
state that information created independent of the assassination
review will be released unless protected by other laws, Executive
Orders, and/or regulations.

3. Other Comments:
1400.1 (a)

Recommend: Insert the word "reasonably" between "may have
[reasonably] led to the assassination..."

The mere allegation that foreign eventa or
international developments may have led to the
assassination at this point in time (after all
the investigations) should not bring records
not related to the assassination on their face
within the scope of this act. There should be
an objective standard, i.e., reasonable person
threshold. Otherwise agencies could be
subjected to massive records searches on
little more than whim. The JFK assassination is
the epitome of conspiracy theories. Without a
threshold standard, the door would be opened to
additional searches (without merit), the
potential costs of which could be significant.

1400.6 Originals and copies.

Recommend: (2) and (3) Add the word "available" after "the
earliest generation print [available] ."

Otherwise no provision to cover situation when
earliest generation print can't be located.

2

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY


.MAR @1 "95 12:53PM

1400.8

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY ne

Implementing the ARCA - Catalog of Assassina-
tion Records. (COAR)

Sections (a) and (c) appear to be inconsistent.
Ags presently worded, former specifies all
records will be listed in COAR; latter section
implies not all records will be listed, i.e.,
requirement that in listing one must determine
that the record will more likely than not
enhance, enrich....

4. I£ any questions, please call 54644 (secure).

3
ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY


ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

NOTE FOR: John F. Pereira @ DCI

FROM: Eldon |. Hatch/@ DA @ DCI

DATE: 02/21/95 02:15:20 PM

SUBJECT: Comments re the JFK Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

1. In general there is not much in the regulation to cause the DA undo concern except for Sec. 1400.2 Interpretation of
additional records and information; specifically {e), (1), (2), & (3). The schedules are classified in the agregate, filing systems and
organization structures are classified in toto, and the storage facility is an Agency Records Center at a classified location. | know this
may not be a lot of help, but I have little or no argument/comment concerning the other sections.

2. If you have any questions/comments, please call me on(30683/or note,

ce:

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


Central Intelligence Agency
‘Washington, D.C. 20505

22 February 1995
Executive Secretariat
Information Review Officer

John F. Pereira
Historical REview Group

Attn: Barry Harrelson
Barry,

Do not agree with "no portions of any
assassination records shall be withheld
from public disclosure solely on grounds
of non-relevance." See Section 1400.5.
Non-relevant material should not have to
be reviewed for declassification & release.
This could be a never-ending project.

Thanks for the aati 27

‘unic
DCI/IRO



1 March 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Periera
FROM: Gary Breneman

SUBJECT : Comments on Proposed Rules, 36 CFR
Part 1400, Concerning JFK Records
Collection Act of 1992

1. You asked that I review subject proposed rules and
provide my thoughts and concerns. This is in response to
that request.

: 2. As a general statement, the proposed rules are not
well written and seem to try to cast the biggest net
possible. With reference to poor draftsmanship, note that
at Sec.1400.2, they introduce a term “additional information
and records,” and describe what the term includes. Compare
sections 1400.3 relating to “sources” and 1400.4 relating to
“(t)ypes of materials.” In the latter, they have reversed
the term and used “additional records and information.”
While the intent is fairly clear, it causes one to wonder
what they had in mind.

3. With reference to the big net approach, it is a
basic rule of statutory and regulatory drafting to not write
laws and regulations which cannot be enforced. In this
regard, I.know of no authority in U.S. law, including the
JFK Act, which would give the Board jurisdiction over
records which “may be located at, or under the control
of,”...”(f)oreign governments.” See 1400.4 (b). I have a
similar concern with respect to “private” records. Cf. Sec.
1400.1 (a).

4. On the nonsensical side of the big net approach is.
every book, magazine and newspaper article and which has
ever been written that may “report, analyze, or interpret”
the assassination. See 1400.1 (a). If read literally, the
Agency would have to give up all of its collections of
private books, etc. which fall within this definition. This
is particularly true of those books we referred to here
within HRG for information and understanding as we conducted
the review. See 1400.2 (a) -- (a)11 documents used by
government offices and agencies during their
declassification review of assassination records...


5. With specific reference to the requirement of
1400.2 (a), the Agency should be concerned about its records
within the DO which tie crypts to true names of projects and
alias' and pseudos to the true names of individuals.

Because we regularly called the DO office responsible for
these matters for assistance in identifying the projects and
names behind the crypts and alias,' this subsection would
seem to place those document holdings within the reach of
the Board. This needs to be addressed.

5. Turning to 1400.7 (d), the Agency’ should be very
careful here. In HRG's review and release of documents, we
have often given out an alias but protected the true name.
In others, we have given out the true name but protected the
alias or pseudo. This section seems to vitiate that effort
and needs to be addressed.

6. I have several thoughts on the non-relevant issue
which would take several more paragraphs. Suffice it to
say, carried to its extreme, if the Board can in any way
make the case a document is an assassination record, then
they are entitled to access to it and may direct its
release.

7. I would be pleased to discuss any of these items
with you if you wish.



2 March 1995
Assassination Record Definition: Comments
Background Section:

[the statement “search and disclosure of records...must go
beyond the records of previous commissions...” is based on a
similar statements on pages 19 & 21 of the Report to
accompany S. 3000]

Section 1400.1 - Interpretation of Assassination Record
(a) “An assassination record includes,...,al1l
records...that may have led to the assassination...”

{S.3006 states that the “Board should act on a reasonable

basis in requesting additional records. Recommend we insert
“reasonably” into statement after “have” (or change may to

reasonably could) ]

(b) (2) "All records...or segregated by all
Federal...agencies in conjunction with any investigation...”

(means all “microfilm” documents are assassination records,
and will have to be reviewed and accounted for even if we
are successful in “postponing” most of these records]

1400.2 Interpretation of additional records and
information.

(a) “All documents used by government offices and
agencies during their declassification review of
assassination records as well as all other documents,
indices, records, and other material that disclose
cryptonyms, code names, or other identification material in
assassination records.”

[Section (a) is too inclusive; as written would include ANY
document, book, index, record system or other material
consulted or “used” during the review, regardless of
relevance to JFK assassination. In fact, most of the
material “used” in the review was used to determine if
information/names/etc. had been previously released and had
nothing to do with the assassination or investigations.

Also the part of the statement following “as well as” needs
clarification. Are they asking for all records that contain
information on individuals mentioned in assassination
records or are they asking for the records/indices/etc. that
were used to identify individuals mentioned by crypt or code
name in assassination records.

{ the amendment recommended by FBI covers CIA concerns;
ideally the word “used” should be changed to “created”]


1400.2 (continued)

(b) & (c) [ ok]

(d) & (e) [add wording to identify time period for
‘these records such as “at the time of the assassination and
investigations” .]

1400.5 Requirement that assassination records be released in’
their entirety.

An assassination record shall be disclosed in its
entirety except for portions specifically’ postponed...,and
mo portions of any assassination records shall be withheld
from public disclosure solely on grounds of non-relevance.

{If this applies to an “individual” assassination record
then there is no problem. However, if it applies, as I :
suspect, to files and groups of records then we have a major
problem of privacy and source protection with the OP and 201
files. It may be possible to “postpone” the 201 and OP
files under the Privacy exemption and National Security Act,
however, the FBI approach to amending the regulation to deal
with “incidental appearance of assassination material” seems
a better approach. Our proposed amendment should include
“files” as well as “records”.

1400.6 Originals and Copies

(a) (2) add “available” after “the earliest generation
print”
: (b) in cases where a copy, as defined in paragraph (a)
of this section is authorized...the board may...require a
certified copy.

[In some cases our file copy or original is a previously
sanitized copy of the document; we may have to “certify”
theses copies as the “original” file copy.]

1400.7 Additional guidance

(d)...Any records identified with respect toa
particular person also includes any records for that person
by any other name, pseudonym, codeword, symbol, number or
cryptonym...

[This needs clarification. It the goal of this section is.
to ensure that all files on an individual/project are
provided regardless of how filed (under name, crypt, etc.)
then I do not see a problem. However, with out clarifying
language, this section could lead to the type of situation
described by Gloria. FBI also requested clarification.]


Issues:

Non-related (36,000+ pages) and OP (10,000 pages) material
in microfilm collection :

The “segregated” records statement negates our claim that
material in the Microfilm is “non-related”. We can point
out that the HSCA requested, but did not review a lot of
these records and that access was given to complete files
even thought the request dealt with specific events or
timeframes. However, given their objective of going
“beyond” previous investigations, I not sure this would have
any impact.

A different approach would be to deny or postpone personnel
type files including 201s that are not related to the
assassination (guidelines to be established in consultation
with the Board) as unwarranted invasion of privacy and/or
protection of sources. Approximately 25,000 pages of the
Non-related material are from 201 files; the remaining
10,000+ pages are from organization and project files.


lo he
=

To: C/HRG

Subject: OGC's comments on proposed JFK regulations.
Bob's comments should be included in our response to

the Board, however, not as he has recommended. The language

and tone is very different and does not inserted well into

existing text; I think his comments will work better as a
separate paragraph or as an addendum.

Barry


ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

10 March 1995
MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA
FROM: John F. Pereira
SUBJECT: JFK Assassination Records Proposed Regulations
REFERENCE:
10 March 1995
MEMORANDUM FOR: John F. Pereira @ DA
FROM: William H. McNair
DO/IRG
‘SUBJECT: JFK Assassination Records Proposed Regulations
REFERENCE: 810319195, ‘subject as above, dtd 8 March 1995

1, The DO concurs in ref comments and would add the following:

A. Comment Par 2 re Section 1400.2 - para d and e(3) call for “Organizational
charts. of government agencies" and “Records necessary and sufficient to describe and agency's
storage facilities and locations".

Organizational charts of detail are classified and release would have to be
balanced against DCI mandate to protect such details.

Description and location of agency's storage facilities are classified: and
release of such information would have to be balanced against security concerns and DCI mandate
to protect such information.

B. Comment 4 re Section 1400.7 - Consideration should be given to protect
records and files of different time frame not related to JFK where the subject is but a passing
name or reference. To reveal full records could endanger national security without adding to
body of information relating to JFK.

2. Believe these two comments should be considered for inclusion into official CIA.
remarks.

ce:

ce:

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

NOTE FOR: John Pereira @ DCI
_ Barry Harrelson @ DCI
FROM: Kathryn |. Dyer @ DI1@ DCI
DATE: 03/10/95 08:13:32 AM
‘SUBJECT: Comments re Assassination Records Review Board's Interpretive
Regulations
1. Thave reviewed the draft comments prepared for the Agency regarding the AARB's proposed

interpretive regulations and believe some modifications are in order.

2. First and foremost, the comments regarding Section 1400.2 do not adequately address the concerns previously raised regarding the
unbridled inclusion of categories of records that have nothing to do with JFK's assassination, e.g., organization charts, records schedules,
filing systems, etc. This section should

> he limited to items created by agencies for use in the assassination review. Generic categories .

of information which stand alone on their merits should be included. This section is overly broad

and inclusive, (Please see the discussion in my 1 March memorandum.) Contrary to the proposed
comment that the intent of this section is “unclear”, [ think it is eminently clear, and that's the problem.
I think our concerns would be better served by in terms of scope rather than intent. Also
recommend against asking questions such as “Is it the intent..2" Heck , yes! Would suggest wording
along the lines~“As presently worded, this section would appear to include...”

3. The proposed comment on Section 1400.7 opens the door to all records on a person vice those

relevant to the assassination inquiries. Do we really want to set ourselves up for the obvious response to the question we are asking?
There are a number of different points here that need to be clarified, all dealing with scope. The board's legitimate concern that all
records on an individual records be addressed {regardless of how filed, e.g.under another name, pseudonym, etc.). And an equally
legitimate Agency concern that

1.) records on an individual when the records themselves are not relevant to the assassination inquiry,

(ie. other records on the individual may be), or 2. ) that all records on individuals who merely happen

to be mentioned in a document falling within the scope of the assassination inquiry (but the individuals themselves are not the subject of
investigation} should not be subsumed within the scope of these

regulations,

ce:

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


To: C/HRG
Subject: OGC's comments on proposed JFK regulations.
1) OGC submission

Bob's comments should be included in our response to
the Board, however, not as he has recommended. The language
and tone is very different and does not inserted well into
existing text; I think his comments will work better as a
separate paragraph or as an addendum. :

2) DI IRO

Kathy's comments on section 1400.2 are on target, but a
little strong. I don't think the board will buy changed
“used” to “created”. Our proposed response, as written,
does question the scope but not directly. (note: The FBI
proposed wording, if accepted by the board, would
satisfactorily limit the scope of this section). She does
have a point in changing “intent” to “as presently worded”.

On section 1400.7, Kathy's reaction is the same as
Gloria's. I think our response adequately address the
concerns here, but could be strengthen without changing the
tone of the response. (Note - OGC comments will also address
“scope” which clearly is Kathy's primary concern.

Barry


Mr. David Marwell
Dear David,

We appreciate the opportunity to comment on the
Assassination Records Review Board's proposed: interpretive
regulations as published in the Federal Register, February
8, 1995. We recognize the value of providing guidance for
those who are responsible for implementing the Assassination
Records Collection Act.

Our general view is that the regulations are
comprehensive in identifying the range of records that would
potentially be relevant to the JFK assassination or the
scope of the investigations into the assassination.

In a few sections of the regulations the wording seems
somewhat overly broad or the meaning is not clear. Attached
for the Board's consideration are comments on these
sections. In some parts of the text we suggest possible
changes in wording for purposes of clarification.

We would be pleased to discuss these comments at the
Board's convenience. It is our intention to continue
cooperating fully with the Board and to make every effort to
release assassination records held by the Agency.

John F. Pereira
Historical Review Group, CIA


Following are CIA's comments on specific sections of the
Assassination Records Review Board's interpretive
regulations, as published in the Federal Register, February
8, 1995.

1. Section 1400.1 Interpretation of Assassination Record

In paragraph (a) the reference to “activities and events
that may have led to the assassination--” seems overly
broad, and appears to go beyond the limits established in
the Assassination Records Collection Act. We believe that
it would be helpful to include an articuable standard in ,
this section. The present text would permit inconsistent
application of the regulations, which might encourage
massive and expensive, additional records searches that are
of doubtful value.

\

The following change is suggested in paragraph (a):

“activities and events that may reasonably be
considered to have led to the assassination--” (This would '
Consistent with the Act.)

2. Section 1400.2 Interpretation of additional records and
information

Paragraph (a) raises a question as to the purpose and
definition of “additional records and information.” The
meaning of the phrase “all documents used--during
declassification review of assassination records as well as
all other documents--”seems unclear. Is it the intention to
include any document, book, index, record system, etc.
regardless of relevance to the assassination or
investigations, including for example, legal opinions ? We
assume that the purpose is to enable the Board to request
and review additional records.

We suggest that the section be made more specific,
including a clearer statement of the intent. For example,
with respect to cryptonyms, codewords, guides, etc. a more
precise link to events related to the assassination or to a
timeframe could be helpful.

3. Section 1400.5 Requirement that assassination records
be released in their entirety

The introductory paragraph specifies that “no portions
of any assassination record shall be withheld--solely on
grounds of non-relevance.” This appears to open the door
for access to entire documents that contain information on
sensitive activities even when the documents contain


information that is only incidental to the assassination,
such as a passing reference to a name. There is a potential
risk that sensitive, non-relevant sources and methods would
be compromised.

We suggest that the Board consider adding wording to this
section that accommodates those instances when there is a
need to release ample information from a document to
disclose assassination-related material, while still
protecting obviously unrelated, sensitive information. The
Board, of course, would continue to have access to the
entire record.

4. Section 1400.7 Additional guidance

Paragraph (d) states “any records identified with
xespect to a particular person also includes any records for
that person by any other name, pseudonym, codeword,” etc.
This appears to require that all records on any individuals
who are merely mentioned in an assassination record be made
available. Is the objective really to assure that all files
on an individual or activity be made available regardless of
the labels on the files ? If so, we suggest that the text be
modified to reflect this.


beet ve ate

Federal Register / Vuil. GO, No. 124 / Wednesda:

Aa. vU PAA cue fet vase

ARRD

June 28, 1995 / Rules and Regulations

wus

33345

{o) uf this section shall be completed by
October 1, 1995,

PART 1926--SAFETY AND HEALTH
REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION

5, The authonty citation of subpart Z
of 29 CFR Part 1926 is revised tu read
as follows.

Authority: Secuuns 6 «inl 4, Occupational
Safety and Health Act, 23 U S.C. 655. 657,
SecteLary of Labut's Cinders Nox 12-71 (36
FR 754). 6-76 [41 FR 25054), 9-83 (48 FR
35736) of 1-90 ($3 FR 9003) ws applicable,
end 29 CFR pan 1411

Section 1926 1161 alse tssued under 5
USC $53

Suction 1926.1102 nut wsued wader 29
of 29 CFR part 1911. also lsstied
S.C 553

Section 1926 1103 through 4926 1118 alse
fssued under 29 U.S.C. 653

Sactiun 1926.1126 alsv nened under 29
USC. 053.

Suction 1926.1145 and 1476 1147 alse
issued under 29 USC 657
ection 1926 1140 alsa issucd under 24
Cos

6@ Section 1926.1101 ts amended by
revising, paragraph tq) to road as follows:

§1926.1101 Asbestos.

(q) Dates. (1) This standard shall
become effective Octobor 11, 1594.

(2) The provisions of 78 CFK 1926.58
et until the start-up dates:
alent provisions of this

Mendord
(a! Start up dat

bhigabuns oi
ie oltecrive

date except as follo’
(4) Methods of comphance. The
eng:neuring and werk pinciiee Coutsuls
required by paragraph ly) uf Dus section
shall be smplemented by October 1,
1995

{u1) Respiratory protection.
Respiratory protection required by
paragraph (h) of this secuur: shall be
provided by Octobur 1, 1995.

iin) Hygiene facilities and practices
for employees: Hygience facaliues and
practices required by paragraph (}) of
this section shall be provided by
October 1, 1995.

(iv) Communi

ton of hazards
Identification, nufieation, labeling and
sign posting, aud training required by
paragraph (k) of this section shall be
provided by Octaber 1, 1995.

(v) Housekeeping Housekeeping

and controls Taquired by

(1) of this section shall be
provided by October 1, 1995.

(v1) Medical surveillance required by
paragraph (in) af this section shall be
provided by October 1, 1495

(vu) The designation and training of
competent persons required by

parsgraph (6) of this section shall be
completed by October 1, 1995.

UFR Dec. 95-15790 Filedt 6-27-95, 8.45 am]
BILLING CODE 461o26-

NEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

34CFA Part 68S
RIN 1640-ACOS.

Willlam D. Ford Federal Direct Loan
Program

AGENCY: Department of Education.
ACHION: Final regulations

SuMMaky: The Secretary amends the
rogulations governing the Walliam D.
Ford Federal Dircct Loan Program to
add the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) conteul number to corton
sections of the rdgulations Those
sections contain information collectiun
requitements appruved by OMB The
Secretary takes thes action to inform the
puble that these sequirements have
been approved, atid therefore affected
parties must comply with them.
EFFECTIVE Date: Information collection
requirements in the final rexulauons are
effective on July 1, 1945.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Rachel Edelstein, Policy Development
Division, Olfice of Postsecondary

Edu US Department of

© Avunur,

Be, 202
4103 Individuals wine u
telecummunicaui
(TDD) may call t
Relay Service (TIRS} at 1-Bud-877
between dam and 6 pm
Monday through Friday
‘SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
regulations for the Willie D Furd
Fedural Direct Loan Program were
published oa December 1, 1994 (59 FR
41664). Comphauce with intoomation
collection requaaments in these
regulavons was delayed until those
requitemonts were approved by OMB
under the Paperwork Reduction Act of
1980 OMB approved the information
collection teuitements on Ducember 7,
1494. Those requirements will therefure
bocome efiective with the other
provisions of the reptatations on fuly 1,
1945.
Waiver of Proposed Rulemaking

Itis the practice Uf the Seeretary to
olier intrested parties the opportunity
to comment on prupused regulauons
However, the publication of OMB
cantrol numbers 1s purely lochniesl and

dues not establish substantive policy.
Therefore, the Sectutary has determined
under 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(B), that public
coment on the regulations is
unnecessary and contrary to the public
interest.

List of Sulyects in 34 CFR Part 645

Adinimstrative practice and
procedure, Colleges and univorsittes,
Education, Loan prograins—education, -
Reporting and recordkeeping
requirements, Student aid, Vocational
education

Dated, June 23, 1395.

David A, Lunganecher,
Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary
Education. E

The Secretary amends Fart 685 of
Title 34 of the Code of Federal
Regulations as follows:

PART 68S—WILLIAM D. FORD
FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM

1, The suthority citavon for pant 6&5
continues to read as follows:

Authority: 20 U.S.C. 10872 et seq, unless
vthorwise aoted.

2. Sections 685 204, G8S.2U6, 683.209,
685.213, 685.214, 685.215, 685.301,
685.302, 685.303, 685.309, and 689.401
ure amended by adding the OMB control
number following the sectiut: tu read as
follows: ;

(Approved by the Office uf Management and
Budget under curstral number 1840-0672)
[FR Duc v9-15844 Filed 6-27-45 5 45 wal
RUNG CODE 4000-01-P

ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW
BOARD

36 CFR Chapter XIV

Guidance on Interpreting and
Implementing the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

AGENCY: Assassination Rocords Review
Board.
ACTION: Fina) regulations.

SUMMARY: These final interpretive
regulavons pravide guidance on the
interpretation of certain terms included
an the Fresideat John F_ Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 and on implementation of eenain
of the statute’s provisions The final
interpreave regulations moke effective
the propused interpretive regulunons
previausly published by ¢
Assassination Recurds Review Board
(Roviow Buard) The Review Bood
revised the prupused interpretive



Aceck Yo AM Ai.oU PAA sus

bad Uaor

33446 Federal Register / Vol. GO, No. 124 / Wednesd

ARRD

» June 26, 1995 / Rules and Regulations

wus

Tegutatiuns after considering public
comment received in writing and

. turough testimony at public hearings

if convened by the Review Board.

a EFFECTIVE DATE: Those snterpretativa
regulations ojo offuctive June 28, 1995.

| FOR FURTHER INI OHMATION CONTACT:

T Jorumy Gunn, Acting General
e Counsel, Assassination Records Review
| Board, 600 E Street, N.W., 21d Floor,
, Washington, D.C. 20530, (202) 724=
: URE, fax (202) 724-0457.

‘SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
Background and Statutury Authonty

: ‘The President John F. Kennedy
iy Assassination Records Collectiun Act of
1992, 44 U.S.C. 2107 (as amended) (JFK
Act), ostoblished the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection JFK Assassination Records
Collection) at the National Archives and
Kecords Administration (NARA). ln
ectablishing a process fur public
disclosure of all records relating to the
Assassination, Congress cfnated an
independent Federal agency, the
Assassination Records Review Board.
af five citizens appuitited
by the President and confirmed by thy
Senate in 19%4..Under the JFK Act, thy
Raview Hoard ts umpowored to decide
“whether a record constitute:
assassination
2107.7(i)Z)(A).
tho Review Board “issue guidance to
assist in articulating the scope or
universe of assassination iecord:
President Jolin F_ Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992, S. Rep. 102-326, 102d Cong. 2d
Suse. (1992) at 21, These final
Hterpretuve regulations, @ propused
version af which were published at Gu
FR 7506-7508 (Feb. 8, 1995), comply
with that inandate.

The Review Bausd’s youl in issuing
this guidance 1s to implement
congressional intent that the JFK
Cullection contain “the most
compruhonsive disclosure of records
tolated to the assassination of Presidant
Kennedy.” S. Rep 102-328, supra at 16.
The Board 15 also mindful of Congress's
instruction that the Board apply +
' “broad and encompassing” working
definition of “assassination record” in
urdur to achiove the gual uf assembling
the fullest historical record on Us,
uagic event in American history and on
the investigations that were undertaken
in the assassination’s ahermath. The
Board recognizus that many agencies
began to uryanize and review records
responsive to the JFK Act even before
the Board was appointed and began its
work. Nevertheless. the Board's aim is

that this guidance will aid in the
ulumaty assembly and public disclosure
of the fullest possible histoncal record
on this tregedy and on subsequent
vestigations and inqusries into it.
The final interpretive regulations
intended to tdeutify com preherstve!
the range of records reasunably related
to the assassination of President
Kennedy and investigatsons undertaken
mn its aftermath. The final interpretive
rogulations are also intended to aid in
the consistent, ellective, and vfficient
implementation of the JFK Act and to
establish procedures for including
assassination records in the JFK
Assassination Records Collecuon
established by Congress and housed at
NARA’s facility in College Park,
Maryland:

Notice and Comment Process

ue Keview Board sought public
comment un its proposed snterpretive
segulatious and set 4 Uarty-day period,
which ended on March 10, 1995, for the
purpose oi receiving wretten comments.
‘The Roview Board aiso heard testimony
at public hearings on aspects of the
proposed interpreuve regulations. In
addition, the Review Board sent copies
of the propased interpretive regulations
to agencies knuwn to have an interest in
and tu be affected by the Review Board's
work, particularly those that either
created or now hold assassination
records, and to the apprapaiste oversight
committees in Congress. Te Ruview
Board also sent notices uf the proposed
intucpretive regulations and request for
comrunts to meny urganizations and
individuals who have denunstiated an
interest in the release of matarials under
the JFK Act ut wha have engoged in
research into the assassination of
Prusident Kennedy

The Keview Board received written
comments on the proposed interpretive
regulations from four Faderal agencies,
three state and Jucal government
entities, and twenty-one private
individuals and organizations with an
interest in the Review Buard’s work.
Federal agencies providing wntten
comments include the Fuderal Bureau ot
Investigation (FBI), the Central
Intelligonce Agency (CIA), NARA, and
the Department of State State or local
yovernment entibes providing written
Counnynts include the Dallas {fexas)
County Commissioner's Court, the
Dallas County Historical Foundation,
and the City of Dallas Records
Management Division of the Oliice of
the Caty Secretary

Prior to publication of the proposed
Mnterpretive rexuletions, the Review:
Board heard testimony at @ publie
hearing beld ar the Review Koard’s

. testimony at a public hearing on March

offices on Decembur 14, 1994, froin
representatives of NARA on the
question of including artifacts in the
scope of the term “assassination
record.” After publicatun of the
proposed interpretive meulations and
before oapiration of the comment
period, the Review Board heard

7, 1995, from the FBI end from several
individuals and representatwes of
private organizations on their views
regarding the text of the proposed
interpretive regulations. Copies of all
written comments received and
wanscripts of public testimony on tho
Proposed interprotive regulations were
placud in the public reading room at the
Review Board's offices and made
evailable fur inspection and copying by
the public upon roquest.

Ata public meeting held on May 3,
1995, for which noticy was tiwely
published in the Federal Reyister
Pursuant to thy provisiuus of the
Government in the Sunshine Act, the
Review Boaid cumsidend a final dre of
these interpretive regulations That
discussion draft itacorporated many of
the cunmments recetved by the Review
Buard on the proposed interpretive
regulations. The Review Board
unanimously voted to adapt the text uf
the discussion draft as ats final
interpretive regulations. Thu approved
text 1s, with a few minur cortections thet
do not change the substance, published
ere,

Response to Comments

The Review Buard fund vary helpful
the thoughtiul and, in many cases, very
detailed comments submitted on the
Proposed interpretive myulations
Nuarly all of the commentators
eapressed support for what they
characterized #s the proposed
interpretive regulauons’
comprehensiveness and flexibility. All
comments subraitted were caretully
studhed and considered by the Review
Board Submitters made both
substantive und technical suggestions,
many of which were incorporated into
the itterprotive regulations as issued
hore in final form. The sutumary below
includes the principal substantive
comments received and the Review
Board's responses thereto.

Comment. The proposed language of
§ 1400 1a) 15 unduly restrictive because
the phrase “nay have led to the
assussination” requires at least a
potenuial causal link to the
assassination Moreover, determining
whether there is a causal hnk would
require the Review Board to evaluate the
validity uf competing accounts af whet



A ATL aL RAN

fut 124 Use

ana

Federal Register / Vol. GO, No. 124 / Wednesflav. June 28, 1995 / Rulos and Regulations 33347

Jod tu the assascination of Prysidunt
Kounody

Response A uunber of comnentatars
put forward ciiticisins along these lines.
Soine of these commentators suggested.
that some form of a “rvasonably related”
stondard be substituted for the “may
have led to” language, while others
suggested altemative formulations (eg.
“that may shed light on the
assassination"). ln adapting and
eventually applying a “reasonably
related" standard, the Review Board
does nut seek to endorse or reject any
particular theory ol the assassination of
President Kennedy, although such
theories may inform the Review Board's
soarch for records reasonably related to
the assassination and investigations into
it. The Keview Board beliuvus that
§ 1400.1(a). as now wordud, advances
Uuut effort and will promote a consist
broad interpretation and
i npleueutation of the JFK Act.

mument: The proposed language of
§ 1400. 1{a) is tuo broad and open-ended.
A mors specific nexus to tho
assassination af Prusidont Kennedy
should bu requitod.

Response. As its teat and legislative
history make clear, the JFK Act
contumpletes that the Review Bourd
extond its search for relevant records
buyond what has buen compiled oF
rovrowed by previous investigations It
is inuvitublo, thorefore. that the Remew
Board must exercise judgment in
determuning whether such records:
constit ssassination records.” The
Review Board regarde its “reasonably
related” standard os sulficieut to eusure
that agencies ate not overburdened with
tdentifyimg and reviewing records that,
if added to the JFK Assassination
kecords Collection, would not advance
the purposes of the JFK Act

Comment Secuon 1400 1 should
specifically include as assassination
recurds any recotds pertaining ta
particularly identified individuals,
organizutions, events, ete

Response: The Review Board
dotermined that, 11 almost every case,
the types uf records commentators
sought toadd were already adequately
covered by § 1400.1 4s proposed.
Accordingly. the Review Board duchned
to include rucords or record yroups at
the luvol of speciticity urged by these
cammontatars because doing ro tight
limit the scope of tho Interpretive
regulations as epphed iitially by other
agencies, or otherwise mipht prove
duplicative or confusing However, the
Review Board welcomes and encourages
suggestions frum the public as to
specific records ot record groups that
mey constitute assassination records,
and intends to pursue such leads,

nt

including those provided sn thy written

communts to the proposod wterpretve

Aegulations
Comment: Section 1400 2{a) 15 vague

and overly broad in describing the scupe

of additional records and infurmatien

Hesponse The Review Buard has
added language to Clarify that the
fouzpose of requesting sddivanal records
and infonn ander § 1400.2(e) is to
identify, evaluaty, or interpret
assassination records, uicluding
asgassination records that may not
initially have been identified as such by
an agency The Keview Board alsa has
addod languuge tu indicate that it
inteuds tu implement this section
through written requests signed by 11s.
Executive Director. The Review Boand
contemplates that, with regard to such
requests, its staff will work closely with
entitigs.to which such requests are
addrussed to implement the JFK Act
vffoctively and efficiently.

Comment. The scope of additional
records and information shuuld
specifically include records and
intommation that:

—describe agencies’ methiods of
searching for records:

—doseribe reclassificuuon, transfer,
destruction, ar uther disposition of
records; or

—do not constitute assassination
records, but have the potential to
enhance, enrich, and lrowden the
histurical record of the azsassination.
Response. To the eatent that the

inclusion of records and inlormation of

pes described would assist the

Review Board in meeting its

respunsibilities under the JFK Act, the

Review Board has adopted the suggested

language
Comment,

and “additional records and
information” under § 1460.2 should not
extend to state and local govurnmunt or
to private records that ate not in the
pussession of the Federal uvernment

Kesponse The Review Board
considered such comments careful
but concluded that the terms of the JFK
Act preclude the narrower teading of
the Keview Buurd’s unsibilities
urged by such comments, Secuon
1400.6 allows the Review Board, ins
discretion, to scec pt cupies in hen of
gnals The Review Roard believes
this Heaibulity addresses the
concerns of some commentators about
the removal uf original records already
housed. for example, an «tate or local
archives

Comment: Section 1400.3 should
include as sources of assassinaucn
records and additions! records and

infunnation individuals and
corporations that pussess such material
even af not obtaived from sources
identified in paragraphs (a) through (0)
thereof, and should specifically include
individuals and corporations that
contracted lo provide goods or services
to the govermument.

Response: The Reviow Board has
added paragraph (0 to this section in.
response ta thyco comments. The
Review Board hus concluded that, in
view of paragraph (0), speaafically
identifying govemment conuactors or
other private persans would be
unnecessary and redundant.

Comment. NARA contendud that -

§ 1400.4 should not includy artifacts
among the ty pes of materials included
an the term ““record."" Treating artifacts
as “records” would be contrary to
NARA‘s accustomed practice and the
usage of the tenn “records” in ather
sroas of Federal records law and would
sesult in substantial practical
difficulties.

Hesponse: The Review Board has
catolully considered NARA's objectivas
10 the inclusion of art!facts as “records,”
but decided chat this inclusion is
necessary ta achieve the purposes of the
JFK Act. The Review Board notes that
artifacts that bocame exhibits to the
proceedings of the Warren Coinnusston
have lang buen in the custady uf NARA,
and decided that thoso artifacts shuuld
remain in the JFK Assassination Rewards
Collection. The Revicw Hoard further
hulwvos thut the unique issues ol pul
trust and credibility of government
prucesses that prompted enactment of
thy JFK Act require that arvfacts be
included within the JFK Assassination
Records Collectiun. Tho strong support
that commenting mambers of the public
gave to this position reinforces this
Conclusion. The Review Board sncluded
1n ts proposed regulauons, and retained
1n 9 1400.7(b)—{c} of tho final
interpretive regulavons, lauguage
intended to address NARA‘s concerns
about potential copying requirements,
and preservation issues unique to
artifacts.

Comment: Section 1400.5 should be
inudified 1a allow agencies to withhold
from the JFK Assassination Record:
Collection material that ts nat rulated to
the assassination of President Kennedy,
oven though 1t appoars in & record that
contains other material that 1s related to
tho ussassination of President Kennedy.

Response: It remains the intent uf this
section to take: Cluat to agencies that, as
a rule, entire records, and not parts
thereof, are to become part of the jFK
Assassination Records Collection: The
purpose of requiring thet records be
produced in therr antirnty is to ensure



WM bd.os rAd cue

33348 ” Federal Register / Vol. 60, No.

sad vaoe

ARKO

wove

124 / Wednesday, Juhe 28, 1995 / Rules and Regulations

that the context and integnty of the
rucords be priserved. Only in rare
Anstancos will the Review Board assent
to withholding particular uformation
‘within an assassination record on the
‘ground that such information te not
Folovant to the assassination. Secon
140v.5 has been modified to clarify that,
although tie Review Board may ellow
this practice in extraordinary
circumstances, this determinstion is
‘within the sole direction of thy Review
Board.

Comment: Tho discussion of originals
and copigs in § 1400.6 is, in vorious:
respects, uncloar and confusing.

Response: The Review Board made
extonsive changos ta thie suction to
address these concems and to achieve
greater internal consistency. The Review
Board's intent in this section is to
express its strong preference for
including orginal records in tho JFK
Assassination Records Cullectivn, but
also its understanding thet, for a vociuty
‘of reasons, Uhure may be situ:
‘wherw a copy instead of the original of
An assassinalion fecord may be more
appropriote for inclusion in the
Collection.

Comment: Section 1400.6 should be
clarified as to whether “record cupics”
‘of Fodoral agency may be included 1n
the JFK Assassination Records
Collection,

Response: The Keview Board has
modified § 1400.6(4)(1) to clatify that
the Koview Board may determine that
Tucord copies inay be included in the
Collection.

Coin The Catalog of
Assassination Records (COAR)
described in § 1400 4 should consist of,
or be replaced by, the database and
finding aids prepared by the Federal
agencies in possession of assassination
records.

Resporise: This and other comments
meccived regarding the pruposud
§ 1400.8 indicated some confusion us to
the intent and upsration of the
moechanisin establishud in this section
For this reason, tho Ruview Board
docided to replace the term “Catalog ul
Assassination Records” with the terin
“Notice of Assassination Record
Determination” (NARD), and to redralt
this section lo Clarity the Roviow
Board's intant to use the NARD
mechanism simply to document the
Review Board's ongoing detorminations
thut, in addition to records uxplicitly
enumerated in the JFK Act as, :
assavsinatlon records (e g, records
reviewed by the HISCA) oF identified by
Federal agencies in their own searches,
contain other records also are
assassination records ta be included in

the JFK Assassination Records
Collection.
Section by Section Analysis
Scope of Assassmation Record

As discussed abuve with regatd to the
public comments, subparagraph (a) of
§ 1400.1 bas buon mur fied te aduplt a
“reasonably rolated” standard and the
term “Catalog of Assassination Records’
has been replaced with “Notice of
Assassination Record Determinanoi
subparagraph (b)(3} The final
interpretive regulations also incorporate
suggested technical changes, including
edits for clarification and revision of
this section's title to make 1t nore
precise.

in

Scope of Additional Records and
Information

The ttle of § 1400.2 was revised to
conform to the new title ul § 1400.1,

, Additions! oditing chongos were made

for clanty A wow subpart (6) was added
tu subparagraph (8) and a new
subparagraph (f) was udded after
consideration of comnmonts that noted
the potenuel exclusion of certain
categones from tle scope of this section
in the proposed interpretive regulations.
The Review Board has added language
an the final interpretive regulations to
clarify that the purpose of this secuon
15 to aid in identifying, evaluating or
interpreting assassination records,
including assassination records that
may net initially have been identified
Ly an agency. The Review Buard also
has added language to suggest thet at
intends to implement this section
through written requasts agned by the
Review Board's Exocutive Director.

Sources of Assassination Records and
Additional Records and Informauon

A new subparagraph (g) was added to
§ 1400.3 after consideration of
comments noting the potential
exclusion of records cteated by
indunduals or Corporations ur obtained
from sources other than those alruady
identified in the previvus
subparagraphs
Types of Moterials Included in Scope of
Assassination Record and Additional
Necords and Information

No substanuve change has been made
to § 1400.4 as it appeared in the:
proposed interpretive regulations

Hequirement That Assassination
Hecords be fteleased sn Thetr Enurety
Language bas huen added 10 § 1400.5
to permut thy Review Board, in its sole
discretion, te ulluw release ul ouly part
uf an assassination record where such
partial reloase 1s sufficient to comply

with the intent and purposes of the JFK
Act.

Originals and Copies

Extensive chaupes were made to
§ 1400.6 lur reasons of clarity and
intemal consistency. The Review Board

so incorporated in the final
interpretive regulations language
clarifying that “record copies” of
Federal agency records may be included
an the JFK Assassination Keconds
Collection and addressing the important
issue of preservation requirements. In
this respuct, the Review Board sought to
treat records in various media in 4
moans appropriate to the unlque
characteristics of each medium.

Additional Guidance

In the light of comments received, the
Review Board extensively revised
§ 1400.7. Subparagraph (a), as it
appeared 1n the proposed interpretive
regulations, has boen broken inte throw
subparagraphs—new subparagraphs (d),
(e), and (f}—40 avold potential confusion
and to add clanty, The intent of these
subparagraphs 1s to mako clear that all
files on an indimdual. event.
uryamizatton or activity are to be made
available to the Reviow Board regardless
of the labuls on the files, where the
records may be found, or whether they
reflect the true name or identifier uf the
individual, event orgenization, or
activity.

Subparagraphs (b) and (cl § 1400.7
were included in thy proposed
interpretive regulations and retained in
the final interpretive roguletions in
urder to address concerns expressed by
NARA regarding the inclusion of
artifacts in the scope of the material
doomed “assassination records.” Ry
including these subparagraphs, the
Review Board wishes to make St clear
that it believes the JFK Act establishes.
unique standards a6 to the records to be
included in the JFK Assassination
Records Collection. By including
artilacts as a typo of “assassination
record,” the Review Board seeks tu
fulfill ts mandate from: Congress to
assemble all materials reasunably
related to the assassination in the JFK
Assassination Records Collection. It is
not untunded that the inclusion here of
artifacts for putposes of implemenung
the JFK Act should be cunstrued to
affect the umplemyntation of uther
tacotds laws. Subparazgraph (¢) is
intended Lo ensure that all artifacts in
the collection are preservud for posterity
and that public accass be provided to
those artifacts in 4 manner consistent
with their prucervation. The Review
Board encourages NARA to set out 1n
writing the terms aud Conditions under



THU 11.53 FAN tug 724

v4

Federal ‘Register / Vol. GO,

a7 AKKB

No. 124 / Wednesda’

gues

June 28,.1995 / Rules and Regulations: 33349

>. which access to such matenals shall be
allowed.

Implementing the JFK Act—Notice of
Assassiation Hecords Deternunation

The Review Board bas repluced the
tor “Catalog of Assassination Kecords™
that appeared in the proposed.
interpretive regulationsand redrafted
§ 1400.8 to clarify the Renew Board's
{ntont. In the final interprotive
segulations, the Keviow Board
substitutes the term NARD for prior
references to a “catalog.”

“Paperwork Reduction Act Statement

The regulation is not subject to the
provisions of the Paperwork Reduction
Act of 1940 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.)
because it dovs to contain any
anforinatan callectiun requirements
within the meaning of 44 U.S.C...
3302(4).

Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification

As required by the Regulatory
Fleaibility Act of 1980 (RFA), 5 U.S.C.
601—612), thy Board cottifies that this
tule, af adopted, will not have a
significant economic impact on a
substantial number of small entities and
that, therefore, a regulatory fluxibibty
analysis need not be prepared. § U.S.C.
605(b). The proposed rule would not
impase any ubligations, including any
obligations on “small entities,” as set
forth in5 USC 6u2{4) of the

Regu latory Flexibility Act, or within the
dofinition of “small businass.” as found
in 15 USC 632, of wittan the Small
Rusiness $17 Standards in regulations
issued by the Small Business
Administration and codified in 13 CFR
part 121.

Heview by OMB

This regulation has buen reviewed by
OMB under Executive Order 1260.

List of Subjects en 30 CFR Part 1400

Administrative practice and
procedury, Arckives and records

Accordingly, the review Board hereby
tstablishes a new chopter XIV in title 36
of tho Cude of Federai Regulations to
tead as follows

CHAPTER XIV—ASSASSINATION
RECORDS REVIEW BOARD:

PART 1400—GUIDANCE FOR -
INTERPRETATION AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY.
ASSASSINATION RECORDS:
COLLECTION ACT OF 1992 (JFK ACT)

Sec.

1400.1 Scope ot assussination record’.

1400.2 Scope of additional records and
information.

1400.3. Sources of assassination records and
additional records and informatian.

1400.4. Types of materials Included In scope
of assassingtion record and eddidonal
teentds and information.

1400.5 Requirement that essessination.
records be released tn thelr enurety..

1400.6 Orlynals and caples.

1400.7 Additions! guidauce.

1400.8 Implementing the JFK Act—Nouice
‘of Assassination Record Designation ©

Authority. 44 U.S.C. 2107.

§ 1400.1 Scope of ayuwssinuuon record; ~

{e) An ossussinution record includes,
Lut is not limited to, all zecords, public
rivate, regurdiess uf how labeled or
fied, that ducument, describes,
report on, analyze or interpret acuvities,
persons, oF events reasunably related to
the assassination of President John F
Kennedy end invest
inquiries into the assa:

(b) An assussinution record further
includes, withuut limitation:

(Q) All records as defined tn Section
3(2) of the JFK Aut,

(2) All records collected by or
segregated by all Federal, state, and
local government agencios 1
conjunction with any investigation or
analysis of ur inquiry intu the
assassination of I'resident Kennedy (fur
example, any intra-agency investigation
or analysis of or inquuy inte the
assassination, any interagency
communication regarding the
assassination, any request by the House
Soluct Committee on Assazzinations to
collect documents and other materials:
or any inter- or intra-agency collection
or segregation uf documents and uther
matunals).

(3) Other records ur groups of records
listed in the Notice of Assassination.
Kecord Designation, as described in
§1400.8 of dus chapter.

§ 1400.2 Scope of additional records and
Information

Thu term additional recurds and
information includes

All documents used by

yuvertunent oilices and agencies during
ther duclussification review of .
assassination records as well as all other
documents, indices, and other material

(including but not limited to those that
disclose cryptonyms, code names, cr
other.identiliers that appear.in.
assassination records) that the
Assassination Records Review Hoard
(Review Haard) has a reasonable basis to
believe may constitute an assassination
record or would assist inthe ~
identification, evaluaton or
interpretation of an assassinetion.
record. The Review Board will identify
in writing those records and other -
matorials it intends to seek undur this
section

(>) All raining manuals, instructional
materials, and guidelines created or
used by the agunciue in furthoranco of
thatr roviow of assassination records.

(c) All fecords, lists; and documents
describing the procedure by which tho
agencies ideutifiud or soloctod
occossination records for review.

(d) Organizational charts of .
government apeucies.

(e) Records necessary atid sufficient to
describe the agency's:

(1) Records policies and schydules;

(2) Filing systems aud organization;

(3) Storage facilines and Yucatians:

(4) Indexing syinbols, marks, codes,
instructions, gurdelinec, methods, and
Procedures,

(3) Search mrothods and. procedures
used in the performance of the agencies®
duties under the JFK Act; and

(6) Reclassification to a higher level,
transfer, destruction, or other
informatian (e.g, theft) regarding the
status of assassination records.

(A Any other record that does not fall
within the scope of assassination record
as duscribed sn § 1400 1, but which has
the potential to enhance, earich, and
broaden the historical record of the
assassination.

§ 1400.3 Sources of aasaazunution records
‘and additional records and information.

Assassination records and vdditional
recoids and infonustivis nay Le located
at, or uuder the cuntral uf, without
limitation:

{a) Agoncius, offices, and untitios of
the executing, legislative, and judicial
Lranches of the Federal Government:

(b) Agencies, offices, and entities of
the executive, legislative. and judicial
branches of state and local governments:

{c) Recurd repusitones and archives of
Fadoral, stata, and local govarnmants,
including presidential libraries;

{d) Record repusitones and archives
of universities, librarws, bastorical
socivtias, and other samilar
‘organizetions,

fe) Individuals who possess such
recuids by virtue of service with a
government agency, office. or emuty:

{ Persons, including individuals and
corporations. who have obtained such



21

+95 THU 11.54 FAX 2u2 724

33350

ler / Vol. 60, No. 124 / Wednesday, June

u4s7 AKKB

28, 1995 / Rules and Regulations

igoor

records from sources identified in
paragraphe (0) through (0) of his
Gection,

(g) Persone, including individuals and
corporations, who have themselves
creatod or havo obtained such records
from sources other than thuse identified
in paragraphs (a) through (v) of this
section;

(hb) Federal, state, and local courts
wherw such records are bung held
under éeal: or
_ G) Fureign govermments.

§1400.$ Types of matoruls included in
‘scope of assaasinatton record and
additions! record and information.

The term record in assassination
record end additional records and
information includes, for purposes of
interpreting and implomenung the JFK
Act:

(a) papors, maps, ad other
documentary material;

(b) photographs:

(e) motion pictures;

{d) suund ond video recordings;

on machine readoble information in

form, und
th artifacts.

§1440.5 Requirement that assussination
focords ba reluased In thelr enuroty.

An assagsination rocord shall be
roleased in its enuroty except fur
poruons speafically postponed
pursuant to the grounds for
postponement of public disclosure of
records established in § 2107.6 of the
JFK Act, and ne portion of any
assassination record shal! be withheld
from public disclosure solely on
yzounds of non-relevance unless. 1n tho
Reviow Buard’s sole discretion. rlaase
af part of a record is sufficient to
comply with the intent and purpuses of
the [FK Act
§1400.6 Originals and coples.

(a) For purposes of determning
whether originals or copies of
assassinativn records will be made part
of the Prusident John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection JFK
Assassination Records Collection)
established under the JFK Act. the
following shail epply-

(1) In the case of papers. maps. and
other documentary matenuls, die
Review Board may determine that
rucord cupios ol government records,
either the sigs ginal

ed original, origi
productiun or a reproduction that has
been treated as the official record
inaintained to chromicle xovernment
functions or activities, may be placed an
tho JFK Assassination Rec
Collection:

(2) In the case of other papers, maps,
and other documentary matenal, 10

Review Board muy determing that a true
and accurate cupy of a record in lieu of
the original may be placed in the JFK
Assassination Kecords Collection;

(3) In the case of f photographs, the
origival nogative, whenever availablu
{otherwise, the earlie-

ry), may be
placed in the JFK Assassination Rocords
Collection;

(4) In the casa of motion pictures, tho
camera orginal, whenever availablu
(othorwise, the earliest genvration print
that is a true and accurate copy), may be
placed {n the JFK Assagsination Records
Collection;

(5) In the case of sovnd and viduo
recordings, the original recording,
whenever available (otherwise, the
earliest generation copy that {ca true
and accurate copy), may by placed in
the JFK Assassination Rocords
Collection; -

(6) In the case of machine-readablo
iniormation, a true and sccutate copy of
the original (duplicating all information
contained in the original’and in a tormat
that permits reurieval of the
infurmetion). may be placod in the JFK
Records Collection, and
¢ of artifacts, the original
objacts themselves may be placod in the
JFK Assassination Racords Colloction.

fb) Tu the eatent records from foreign
governmunts are included in the JFK
Assassination Records Colluction.
copies of the anginal records shall be
sufficient fur inclusion in the collection.

(c) ln cases where a copy, as defined
in paragraph (a) of this section, 1s

+ authorized by the Revicw Boor to be

included in the JFK Assassination
Rucords Colluction, the Keview Board
tuay require that a copy be certufied if,
an its discration, 3t determines a
Certification to tx nacessary to ensure
the integrity of the JFK Assassination
Records Collecnon. In cases where an
ined in paragraph (0) af
jon, 16 required for inclusion in
the JFK Assassiuation Recurds
Collection, the Review Board may, at its
discretion, accept the best available
copy. In such cases that records
included 1n the JFK Assassination
Records Collection, whether originals or
copiae, contain illegible portions, such
records shall have attached thereto a
certified transcription of the illegible
language to the extent practicable.

(dj For purposus of implementing the
JFK Act, the tury copy fwans a true and
accurate photocupy duphcetion by a
tneans approptiate to the medium of the
original record that preserves and
displays the integrity of the record and
the information contained in at.

(e) Nothing » section shall bo
unter preted to suggest that additional

‘copies of any assassination records
contained in the JFK Assassination
Records Collection are not also
assassination records that, at the Review
Board’s discretion, may also be placed
in the JFK Assassination Records
Collection
(0 Nothing in this section shall be
interpreted to prevent or to preclude
coptes uf any electronic assassination
records from being roforattod
electronically in order to conforin to
differynt hardward and/or softwaro
roquirements of audiovisual or machine
readable formats if such fs the
professional judginent of thw National
Archives and Records Administration.

§1400.7 Additional guidance.

{a) A government agency, office, or
entity wncludes, for purposes of
interproting and implementing the JFK
Act, all current. past, and former = S
dopartments, ageuicies, offices,
divisions, foreign offices, buirwaus, and
deliberative bodies of any Federal, state.
or local government and includes all.
anter- or {ntra-agency working groups,
committees, und meetings that possess
or created recurds relating'to the
assassination uf Prosident John F.
Kennedy.

(b) The inclusion of artifacts mn the
scupw of the term assassination record ts
understoad to apply solely to the JFK.
Assassination Records Collection and to
implement fully the torms of the JFK.
Act ond hes io direct or indirect bearing
‘on the interpretation or implementation
of any 0 othor statute or regulation.

tcl Whenever anifacts are included in
tho JFK Assassination Records
Collection, it shall bu suffictent to
comply with the JFK Act ifthe public
is provided accuss tu photographs,
drawings, or sim{lar materials depicting
the artifacts. Additional display of or
examination by the public of art{facts in
the JFK Assassination Records
Collection shall ovcur under the terms
and conditions established by the
National Archives and Records
Administration to ensure their
preservation and protection for
posterity.

(d) The tons and, or, any, all, and the
plural and singular forms of nouns shall
be understuud in their-broadest and
must inclusive sonse and shall nat be
understood to be terms of limitation

(e) Unless the Review Board in its sole
discretion directs utherwise, records
that are iduntified with respect tu a
parucular person shall include all
records raluting to that persan that use
of rofleet the true name or any other
name, peaudonym, codeword, symbol
number, cryptonymi, or alias used to
identify that person



41 yo

Ae

AML Lb.od PAL

Fed

1 Register / Vol. 60, N

ARKD

“124 / Wednesdays June 28, 1995 / Rules and Regulations

Wives

33351

—_<—£_=_“—0“___

() Uniess the Review Board sn its sole
diecretion directs otherwise, records
thet are dentihied by the Review Board
with respect to a particular operation or
progtam shall include all records.
pertaining to thet progran by eny other
Rime, psudonym, codeword, symbol,
number, of cryptonym

§ 1400.8 Implementing the JFK Act—
Nolice of Assassination Record
Designation. :

(a) A Nonice of Assassination Record
Designation (NARD} shall be the
mechanistt for the Review Board to
announce publicly its determination
that a record or group of records meuts
the definitron of assassination records.

{b) Notice of all NARDs will be
published in the Federal Register
within 30 days of the decision to
dosinate such rucords as assassination
records.

{c) In determining to designate
recurds as 48a: mu records, the
Review Board must dutermins that the
rucord ur group of record will move
likely than nut euhauce, enrich, and
broaden the historical record of the
assassinati

Tiatad: June 22, 1995
David G Maxwell,

Executive Director Assassination Records
Revicw Board.

{FR Dac ¥$-15819 Filed 6-27-95; 8 45 win)
BLING CODE etze-1O-M

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
National Park Service

xu crR Pan?

RIN 1024-AC14

National Capital Region Parks; Speclal
Regulations; Correction

AGLNCY: National Path Service, Int
action: Correction to final relation

10.

‘SUMMARY: This document contams a
Comection ty the f ulations which
were published Friday, April 7, 1995
{G0 FR 17639). The regulations linat the
sales un Fedetal park land tu bouks,
newspapers, leaflets, pamphlets, buttons
and bumper stickers and set standards
for sites, stands and structurus used in
such sales within National Capitel
Rogion Parks.

EFFECTIVE OATE: May 8, 1995

FOR FURTHEN Int ORMATION GONIACI:
Sandra Alley, Associate Kegsunal
Director, Public Affairs and Tourist,
Nutionel Capital Region, National Park
Service. 1100 Ohio Drive SW .
Washington. D.C. (202) 619-7223,

- tead as follaws:"* 1s cortucted to read “

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
Need for Correction
As published. the final rule cuntains

‘one error which may prove to be
misleading and 1s in need of correction.

Correction uf Publication

Accordingly, the publication an
Friday, April 7, 1995 (60 FR 17639) of
the final regulation. FR Doc. ¥5-8o¥3.
for Natiunal Capnal Regiun, is corrected
as follows.

In the FR Doc. 95-#599, appearing on
page 17649 in the issue of Friday. April
7, 1995, the words “the introductory
text of need tu be added afer the word

revising" that appears in the first
column, beginnmg on the ninth line,
which now reads “2. Section 7.96 is
amended by revising parsgraph {k)(2) to

Section 7.96 is amended by revising the

introductory text of puragraph (kj(2) to

read as follaws:
Dated Jung 22, 1945

Rick Gale,

Acung Chie}, Hanger Activiues Division

IFR Doc. 95-15741 Filed 6-21-95, 6.43 am)

eiLUnG CODE 4210-70-6

—_———

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY

40 CFR Parts 52 and 81
[A141 AL 6249-6)
Clean Air Act Promuigation of

Extension of Attainment Date for
Ozony Nonattsinment Area, Maine

AGENCY: Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA).
ACHION: Final rule

SUMMARY: EPA 1s extending the
attainment date for the Hancock end
Waldo Counts, a mentinal ozony
nonattainment area in Maine to
November 14, 1994. This extension is
hasad sn part on monitored air quality
teadings for the natiounl ambrent air
quality standard tor ozone during 1993,
Thic notice also updates tables in 40
CFR 52.1024 and 40 CFR 61.320
Cuncenung attainment dates in the State
of Maine

EFFECTIVE DATE: Thi
effective July 26. 19:
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT;
Ruchard P. Burkhart, Air, Pesticides and
Toxics Management Division, U:
Environmental Protection Agency,
Region |, JER Federal Bidg.. Boston, MA
02203. Phone. 617-365-3244
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On Feb
22, 1945 (60 FR 9813), EPA published

tension hecotaes,

4 nutice of proposed rulemaking (NPR)
for the State of Maine. The NPK
proposed extending the attainment
deadline for ozone for Hancock and
Waldo Cuunues, and usked for public
comment. No cumments were received.

CAA Requirements and EPA Actions
Concerning Designation and
Classification

Section 107(d)(4) af the Clean Aur Act
as amended in 1990 (CAA) required the
‘Stotes and EPA to designate areas as
attainment, nonatlainment, or
unclassifiable for yzonw as wall as athor
pollutants for which netronal ambient
air quality standards (NAAQS! have

_been set. Section 161(a)(1) (table 1)

required that ozone nonattainment areas
be classified as marginal, moderate,
serious, severe, or extreine, depending”
on their air quality.

Ina series of Federal Register notices.
EPA coniplated this process by
designating and classifysng all areas of
tho country fur ozone. See, e.g, 56 FR
58694 (Nov. G, 1991); 57 FR 56762 (Nov.
30, 1992): 59 FR 18967 (Apni 21, 1994)

Areas designated nonatiuinment for
ozone ary required to rucet attsintuent
datus spucified under the Act For ereas:
classtfiud marginal through uxtrema, tha
attainment dates rate from November
15, 1993 through November 15, 2010. A
iscussion of the attainment dates
found in 57 FR 134y8 (April 16, 1
(tha General Pruamblo).

‘The Hancock and Walde Counties,
Molny aroa was designated
nonattainment and clussified marginal
for ozune pursuant to 56 FK 54034 (Nov.
&, 1991). By this classification, its
attanment date became Novetaher 15,
1993

92)

CAA Requireuents and EPA Actions
Concerning Meeting the Attainment
Date

Suction 181(0)(2(A) raquetes the
Administrator, within six months of the
att date, to determine whether
ozone nonattanment areas attained the
NAAQS For uzonv, EPA dewuimines
attainmont status on the basis of the
expected number of exceedances al the
NAAQS over tho three-year pesiod up
to. and including, the attainment date.
See General Preamble, 57 FR 14306 In
the casw af ozone marginal
nongtiomment areus, the three year
period is 1991-93. CAA section
181(L)(2)(A) further states that, fur areas
classified as manginal. moderate, or
seriuus. if the Administrator determines
that the area did not attain the standard
by its attainmont date, the area must be
reclassified upwards.

However. CAA section 181{a{3)
provides an exemption frum these bump

