# 104-10216-10071

## Page 1

4-00000 ≤

104-10216-10071

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRANS

Of

TAL

TOES INFORMATION REPORT.

190

SECRET

201

ORIG.

UNIT

Marge Coraggie;EL

EXT.

WH/C/RR/RE

5547

DATE

CONFIRMATON SUPE

1965

WiLe 11

INFORMATION COPIES

ROUTING

TDESDR 315, 02061-55

CHOR CL, D/DEL SDE, ADDI CS/RE

CA/PEG, DO/H, WE 4, WH 1k

PRECEDENCE

15 Jine 1965

DISSEMINATION

EHC/ RE

3 HHC/SI

WHC/RR

WHC / WAYE

WHIC/FI

WHC/EA

1

WH/2/DR

WHC/OS

1

WHC/CA.PP. 1

WHC/MO

EVALUATTON

REQUESTED STATE

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

ARMY

HE/5/R

WE/MADE

]

3

* ROUTINE

BASED OTS (FLD, RPT., PAOS.)

WAVE-2974

(IN-90118)

NP (АНГАВВУ-27)

Liaison

BARR

NAVY

AIR

RECOMMEND FOR EXO.

LIMITED DISSEM FOR STATE, I&NS, CUSTOMS, AND FBI ONLY.

NO FOREIGN DISSES/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND 'SE ONLY

RELAY REQUEST ATTACHED FOR JMWAVE •

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)

NH/2/DR

• WH/C/RR

RELEASING ONION

нело

Elizabeth Vetter (by phore

Henry Kitchens (in draft)

SECRET I

WHEN FILLED IN)

COPY NO.

19-2 14-2 ORSONTE PERIOUS IDNTONS

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONEIDENTIAL

COUNTRY DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

DATE OF

12 JUNE 1965

INFO.

NO FORET.** DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/

NO DISSER ABROAD/BACKGROUND

REAPE UNIS

CENTRAL INTELLIS IHCE ADENCY

• POUTINE

Intelligence Information Cable

TDCSDB-315/02061-65

HSIR 15 JUNE 1965

• SUBJECT

FINANCIAL BACKER OF GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

IDENTIFIED AS IRVING DAVIDSON

PLACE &

DATE ACQ, UNITED STATES, MIAMI (15 JUNE 1965)

SOURCE

AND

IN - 90118

TDCSDB-315/02015-65

FIELD REPORT NO.

APPRAISAL A CUBAN REFUGEE WHO IS ASSOCIATED WITH ACTIVISTS IN THE MIAMI AREA

SOURCE IS REGARDED AS RELIABLE, AND PREVIOUS REPORTING FROM HIM

HAS PROVED TO BE ACCURATE

-

1. HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: TDCSDB-315/02015-65, DATED

11 JUNE 1965, REPORTED ON A SCHEDULED MEETING OF GERALD PATRICK

HEMMING AND HIS AMERICAN BACKER WITH DOMINICAN GENERAL ANTONIO

IMBERT BARRERAS.

2. ON 12 JUNE 1965. HEMMING, WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF

LIQUOR, SAID THAT HIS FINANCIAL BACKER IS IRVING DAVIDSON, WHO

WENT TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC ON 12 JUNE BY PRIVATE AIRPLANE;

HE WAS DUE TO RETURN (PRESUMABLY TO MIAHI) ON 14 JUNE. (HEADQUARTER

COMMENT: IRVING DAVIDSON IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH ISADORE

IRVING DAVIDSON, BORN 19 JANUARY 1921 AT PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA,

WHO WAS PREVIOUSLY DESCRIBED AS AN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESSMAN AND

CONFIDENTIAL NO ORTON DISSON IS T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/

NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

AD/CI 2

CUSTOMS

FBI

I&NS

EXO

---

## Page 3

14-00090

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/

NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

.. CONFiDENTIAL

MMO 104 is

IN - 90118

PAGE 2

TDOS DB -315/

02061-65

A MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL PRESS CLUB. HE IS WELL KNOWN IN

• WASHINGTON CIRCLES AND IS REGISTERED WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF

JUSTICE AS AN AGENT FOR HAITI, ECUADOR, NICARAGUA, AND ISRAEL.)

3. FIELD DISSEM:

.., MIAMI REPS OF STATE, FBI, I&NS,

CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, USCG, FAA, COMKHESTFOR, (ALSO SENT TO

SANTO DOMINGO.)

END OF MESSAGE

satan, sentes or:

i ridd

Y..... ..

.:""

CONFIDENTIAL

• FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/

---

