# 104-10124-10013

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10124-10013,

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE

SUBJECT

Jacos W. McCord

CRYPTO TRAINING AND OPERATION

CLEARANCE REQUESTED

XX ACCESS

ONLY

TO : Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS

FROM: Chief, Comminications Security Staff

COMPONENT

0S

DATE

21 May 1962

IS REQUESTED THAT THIS OFFICE BE ADVISED WHETHER THE SUBJECT EMPLOYEE MEETS CURRENT MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR A

CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE. AND WHETHER THE SECURITY OFFICE CONCURS

SUCH A CLEARANCE.

FOR THE CHIEF, COMMUNICATIONS:

TO

:Chief, Communications Security Staff

Here a Cente

PROTECTIVE BRANCH

DATE

22 MAY 1962

FROM: Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS

52049

THAT SUBJECT MEETS THE CURRENT REQUIREMENTS

SUCH CLEARANCE.

FOR CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE AND THAT THERE IS NO

EMPLOYEE IS U.S. CITIZEN

YES

NO

EMPLOYEE'S SPOUSE IS U.S. CITIZEN

YES

NO

Verbal approval 16 May 62.

F110 # 52049.

TO

: Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS

FROM: Chief, Communications Security Staff

159 May br

THE ATTACHED CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE BRIEFING STATEMENT SIGNIFIED THA

PONSIBILITIES CONTINGENT UPON GRANTING OF

SUBJECT ACCEPTED THE CONDITIONS

CLEARANCE.

AND RE-

ING STATEMENT.

CLEARANCE IS EFFECTIVE

AS OF THE DATE SHOWN ON THE BRIEF.

OFFICE.

IT IS REQUESTED THAT THE BRIEFING STATEMENT BE PLACED IN THE APPROPRIATE FILE MAINTAINED BY YOUR

03

camely

ten

CHIEF. PROTECTIVE BRANCH

CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE REVOKED AS OF

REASON FOR REVOCATION

LIPU

ORM

3. 59 1591

SECRET

(9)

---

