'104-10186-10247, {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘This material cootatns information afecting the National Defense of the Uoited States Bltnta the meaning of the Rephonage Lawe, THe

ae 18.-USC Bere 733 and TH, the wratamimion o ferelation of which ia any manner to on uNsuthoried person Le pronibited by Le
SECRET ,
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
countey Cuba REPORT NO. CSC1-316/01210-64
.SuMECT Hector Pascual GALLO Portieles DATE DISTR. 16 September 1964
NO. PAGES 2
REFERENCES, :
DATE OF
Info, 1964

ce a Washington, D. C.
bate acaseptember 1964 FIELD_REPORT NO.

THIS 15 _UNEWALUATED INtORMATION, SOURCE GAADINGS ALE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 19 TENTATIVE.

source. A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban ee

HNoee

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
Anformation from the records of this Agency.

It 18 requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Source said that he had heard the name Hector Pascual GALLO
Portieles from Jose Raul VERS igageg | $eger- -316/01208-64), but
source has never met GALLO.1

Headquarters Comments : rl

1. An in a report dated 2 December
1960, said that Hector GALLO Porticlles, a Cuban Diplomat in

Asuncion, was born in Habana in 1924,

2. <A report dated 27 February 1961, from a usually reliable
source, stated that Hector Pascual GALLO Portieles had taken
over Cuban affairs in Costa Rica when the Cuban government
withdrew Ambassador Juan Jose FUXA Sacnz on 31 December 1960,
GALLO left Costa Rica by air on 26 January 1961 for Mexico and
on 12 February 1961, returned to Costa.Rica and presented
himself to the Costa Rican Foreign Ministry as Charge d‘
Affaires of the Cuban Embassy. An untested informant told
source that GALLO and his helper, Wilfredo GONZALEZ Ramieres, :
were leaving for Habana on 13 March 1961 and that both H

were G-2. i0

5

3. A usually reliable source learned from a source[|_ | 4
that Hector GALLO Portieles 3

CRET fee] 2

NO FOREIGN DISSEM \ {Ses t

a 2 [asa

| STATE

REP__CINCLANT. CINCSO..# ___I&NS.

[Ger

iusbuvon indicated by "aE

(ZSA/E0B-11 WE/ Sf
/SA/MOB-—i-- WE/MADR—}27-C1 /R&A—{ BIEYARIT ISH

LX - 1681

aferura— Ta TEYcaN.

i +-NO PROJECT (AMMUG/1)
1+ i1_____rsct- 316/01210-G4
= —

WH/SAAR—- oe spef WASHER:
shar t rij —— Frain y— Weg ' ep

WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RIDL



SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI~316/01210-64

formerly second secretary of that Embassy, 4s now residing in
Honduras in an unofficial capacity and probably working for tho
Cuban Intelligence Service. This report was dated 20 July 1961.

In @ report dated 15 August 1961, it was reporged that Hector
Pascual GALLO Portieles was presently the Cuban Charge d'‘Affaires
in Mexico City. He and his wife were renting an apartment there.

In a report dated 10 July 1962, a usually reliable source said he

sai Hector Pascual GALLO Portiles in Santiago, Chile. GALLO is
Secretario Adscripto of the Cuban Embassy in La Paz, Bolivia. GALLO
had escorted thirty-one Bolivian students from La Paz to Arica to
catch a Cuban plane which transported them from Arica tu Santiago,

Rio de Janetro, and Habana,

An untested source, in a report dated 21 September 1962, wrote the
following character sketch on Hector GALLO Portieles, First
Secretary of the Cuban Embassy 1n La Paz;

GALLO, who arrived tn Bolivia in March 1962, gives the
impression of being a capable and dynamic worker, with a nervous
personality. tle is the person in charge of giving scholarships
to Cuba, It is said .that this job was created by Fidel CASTRO
in answer to a request by the Avanzada Universitaria (University
group of the official government party). Ile is seen frequently
at the University of La Paz and has many friends among the
students. GALLO does not spend mugh time with the other Cuban
diplomats, He is-in frequent contact with the leaders of the
Communist Youth, and spends a good deal of time in the labor
and other union organizations. He is also in contact with the
Trotskyist organizations, and makes many trips into the interior
of Bolivia which usually do not last more than six days. GALLO
meets the Cuban diplomatic couriers on their arrival in La Paz,
and dt 18 said that his correspondence is sent scparately from
the regular Embassy correspondence to Cuba. He 1s ‘the most
active of the Cuban diplo: ats in La Paz,

On 9 Wareh 1963, accoruing to a usually reliable source, Hector GALLO
Portieles, a Cuban Diplomat, arrived in Mexico from Santiago, Chile,

accompanied by his wife and three children, On IL March 1963, GALLO

and his family departed Mexico for Habana,

An untested source who was a former member of the Cuban Ministry of
Foreign Relations reported the following information on Hector
Pascual GALLO Portiles in a report dated 28 January 1963:

GALLO is the First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in La Paz,
Bolivia. He received his appointment because his brother is an
Important Communist in the Castro regime. GALLO may have been a
member of the Foreign Service before the revolution. He is not
very intelligent. His wife is anti-Communist.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

