# 104-10183-10160

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10183-10160

.?

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

CLA SEED MESSAGE 2I

HE/SA/EOB/MILPRON-:*

SECRET

1?.68

ROU: 13

4

7147

C'TE: 19 OCT 64

D'FLE IN CS FILENO.

TO : PARIS

INFO:

15-4

(MADRID) (LONDON)

210ст 61 2:

FROM: DIRECTOR

15-2

(5-)

.292

CONF:

DEFESTO CEM

ROUTINE

IRON FILE, VR, DAP, ALLOR, C/WE 4, CCI, C/A12, C/SRO

(PART) 15-4

INFO

•S CITE PR

58309

FESE: BYE TYPIC MENHIP MILAPRON AMASH/2

REF: A. (PARD 6786 (IN 89336)

CI

B. (PARD 6789 (IN 89419) , LI

SEE

file

1.. VIEW PARA 2C REP B WISH CAUTION AMWHIP NOT QUERY (UNSNAFU/19

ANYTHING RPT ALYTHING IN OFFICE. SUGGEST TELL WHIP IF SNAFU/19

WISHES TALK IN OFFICE WELL AND GOOD BUT PREFER HAVE WHIP LURE HIV.

OUTSIDE FOR ELICIIATION QUESTIONS ON PARA FOUR BELOW.

2: PATTERY INDICATES SNAFY/19 APPARENTLY RESPONDING FREELY IO •

WHIP'S QUERIES. HAS(ST ASKED WHIP WHETHER SNAFU/ 19 SHOWING ANY

SURPRISE WILD'S "NEWN INTEREST CUBAN POLITICAL, FORN, GENERAL.

AFFAIRS? WISH IMPOSE NEW REQUIREMENTS BUT ONLY ON BASIS OF PERMITTI.::

WHIP TO JUDGE WHETIER HE HAS ENOUGH BACKGROUND IN THE SUBJECT TO

PUT FORTH THE QUERIES AND WHETHER SNASU/19 WOULD CONSIDER WHIP'S

•INTEREST UNUSUAL.

3. INSOFAR AS INTEL ELICITED TO DATE, HOS FOUND IT VALUABLE TO

DISCUSS ALL SUE THE TRES PUS LATE EVER RITE TO A NSS ...

WIP GREATLY SI:CE LITTER'S MAJOR INTE ISTS CONENCIN. RESULTS

EVIDENT VIEW LITEL DISSEY AFTER LAST VISIT

1ld0196600i1a11

---

## Page 2

14-00000.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG :

UNIY:

EXT :

IA:C:

то :

FROM: DIRECTOR

1 FIE IN CSFLENO

INFO :

то

DEFERRED

XX ROUTINE

58389

4. VIEW WHIP'S WILLINGNESS AND CONSCIENTIOUSNESS, WISH CONTINUE ARE

FEASIBLE WITH WHIP ON FOLLOWING:

A. RE PARA IWO REE A: SUGGEST HAVE WHIP ASK TO WHOM FIDEL

MADE THE STATEMENTS ABOUT HIS ERRORS IN RELATIONSHIP WITH ODYOKE,

WHAT WERE THE ERRORS, WHAT DOES FIDEL INTEND DOING ABOUT THE ERRORS,

AND THRU WHOM? WHAT MAKES FIDEL THINK ODYOKE WILL ACCEPT ATTEMPTED

CORRECTION OF THESE ERRORS? (THERE ARE NO INDICATIONS HE INTENDS TO

MAKE CONCESSIONS, ARE THERE?)

B. WHAT INSTRUCTIONS HAS FIDEL SENT RE THE NEW GOVT USSR?

C. WHAT ARE (URUSNAFU-19%S OPINIONS ON POSS EFFECTS NEW GOVT

USSR ON FIDEL REGIME?

D. ANY INFO ON DORTICOS• RECENT TRIP USSR.

E, MGR OF CUBAMETALES, MAURO (CARRECEDO) DANZA, NOT CURRENTLY

IN CUBA, CAN WHIP FIND SOME WAY TO ASKCUSSNA U/19 WHERE HEIS TRAVELING

AND WHY?

02

F. (NLEASH/1 SURPRISED RECENT TRIP CUBA AT NUMPER PERSONS OPENLY

COMPLAINING AGAINST FIDEL. DOES AMWHIP HEAR ANY OF THIS FROM SNAFU/19?

G. DOES WHIP HAVE ANY LATER INTO ON ROÀ KOURIX AND THE NEW

TRADE OFFICE IN PARIS?

DINARING EIIICIE

Co12190'= e106!'..

L SECRET

:..

3/00

---

## Page 3

14-00000

:

CLASSIF'EC N'ESSAGE

EXT

TATE :

10 :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO :

& NO INSEX

E FLE IN CS FILE NO.

5

DEFERRED

XX ROUTINE

5F3F7

INFO

CITE DIR

H. ANY COMMENI BY SNAFU/19 ONNIELOPE•S TRIP HO-E?

I. HAS SNAFU/19 MENTIONED DORTICOS • TRIP TO ALGERIA AFTER THE

NONALIGNED NATIONS• CONFERENCE IN CAIRO? ANY INDICATION CLOSER

RELATIONS BETWEEN CUBA AND ALGERIA? OR USE ALGERIA TO FURTHER

FIDEL'S OBJECTIVES IN LATIN AMERICA?

3. VIEW RECENT REPORTS PROM NIFISH THAT SOVIETS DELIBERATELY

HAMPERING CUBAN ECONOMY BY DRAGGING FEET IN SUPPLYING CUBA WITH

PETROLEIM, MISSING SHIPMENTS, TAKING OVER THE CUBAN NATIONAL BANK

AND THEREBY HANDLING FUNDS TO DETRIMENT CURRENT ECONOMY, AS VELL 1.3

RECENTLY REPLACING INEPT FIDELISTAS WITH UNTRAINED AND UNQUALIFIE!

CP PERSONNEL WHOSE ONLY VIRTUE WOULD APPEAR BE LOYALTY TO SOV U..;

AS FUTURE PUPPETS UNDER COMPLETE SOV CONTROL OF CUBA, WISH HAVE IN I•

REINTRODUCE THIS SUBJEGT WITH SNAFU/19 IF POSSIBLE. MIGHT TELL I•

ABOVE AND THAT ANIBAL ESCALANTE REPORTEDLY SUPERVISING FOREIGN EXÍ :

TRANSFERS IN BANCO NACIONAL, FOSSIBLY HE

COULD USE THIS AS RUMO

HEARD WHILE AWAY FROM PARIS AS OPENER TO SEE WILAT STATU/10S IS A .

THE BANK AND THE SOVIETS.

COORCIDATISE SPREESS

late. 1

MECCASING OFFICER

Carr No.

z/pd

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CRiG:

LATE :

то :

FROI": DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO :

01N2EY

CLASSEE- MESSAGE

SECRET

ROLING

DEFERRED

XX

ROUTINE

58389

R. (SJ2.ING0/1 SAYS SNAFU/19 CLOSE TO FIDEL AND UNDERSTANOS

G20C5

AND INTERPRETS LATTER'S THINKING VERY ACCURATELY IN MATTERS RELATING

TO WEST. SAYS SNAFU/19 GOOD PRIVATE LINE TO FIDEL AND SHOULD BE

_ TAKEN SERIOUSLY. ENTENGO SAYS SNAFU/19 HAS MADE UNFLATTERING

REMARKS ABOUT THE USSR. PLS QUERY WHIP.

L. SINCE THE OAS MEETING AND THE BREAK IN DIPL RELATIONS WITH

LATIN AMERICA, RAS SNAFU/19 LEARNED FIDEL'S REACTION OR FUTURE PLANS

ON LA?

02

5. NOT FOR UNSNAFU, 19 BUT WHIP WAS IN SPAIN RECENTLY DID HE HEAR

ANYTHING ABOUT CUBA'S PURCHASE OF SPANISH-BUILT FISHING BOATS?

ABOUT SPANISH FIRMS GRANTING CREDIT OR SPANISH GOVT UNDERWRITING IT?

HOW MANY SHIPS AND FINAL DELIVERY DATE? DOES WHIP KNOW ANYTHING

ABOUT CUBAN CRITERIA IN APPROVING DEPARTURE CUBAN REFUGEES TO SRAIN

OR PORTUGAL? DO THE REFUGEES HAVE ANY CLAIM TO SPANISH CITIZENSHIP?

6. PLS ASK WHIP WHETHER AMLASH ONE KNOWS CMDTE CALIXTO (GARCIA)MARTINEZ,

NO:! CO OF THE CENTRAL ARMY, IF ANSHER YES PLS GET ALL POSS DETAILS

OF RELATTONSHIP, AND ANY IDEAS WHIP MAY HAVE ON LASH'S TRUST IN GIRGI..

DITTO FOR FALSTINO (PEREZ) HERNANDEZ, DIR "ATL INSTITUTE HYDRAULIC

RESOURCES,

RELEASING ORTIGER

SE.CIF.T

---

RUMENTENING

Cipr "i:

---

## Page 5

14-00000

O9'G:

EXT

CATE :

т0 :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO :

TO

093r

CLASSINGS MESSAGE

_SECRET

12 €2

ROU ING

5

DEFERRED

XX ROUTINE

56.3£9

INFO

7. ASK WHIP EXTENT LASH'S TRUST IN CMDTE PEDRO (MIRET) PRIETO

ALSO.

8. ASK WHIP FOR NAMES AND DETAILS ON ANY HIGH RANKING : AVAL

FRIENDS LASH/1.

9. PLS ASK WHIP WHETHER LASH RECD THE MEXI INVITATION.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/SA/EOB/MHAPRON COUL

1.E/3--

WE/BC/UK_,

WE/S Cerea

03

Tina tifet

TIDAS THIEL

Thur 3.

CITE. EN

IC/WH/SA

816889186

11p-.46

it' is!.

CRET

й. ":

c...d.

G/pJ

---

