# 104-10107-10180

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10107-10180

24

-.-..-

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF, 19922 0:2

#ll: 111-657-4191

cramunications

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

÷25 1957

Sitate

INDRAIDUM FOR: Director of logintles

GULJECT

:

Request for Services of Collins Moden Field Service

Engineer

the fifice of Commications recently purchased to Collino Fadio

Coupany Model. TK- 216D- 16D iigà Frequency Data Modens aù a cost of 120,000

These fovems are specially designed equipment and vill be used to

vest the feasibility of tranuitting Secure (encrypted) Voice over a narrow

pand, h13h Frequency, radio cireuit. Ve also intend to determine their

cuitatility for use in high apeed data transmisaion, and tests by our

ingizeering staft sre scheduled to cormence in mid-rebruary.

2. Ovlag to the fact Moden are very complex in operation requiring

special set-up techniques end adjustment, it would be advantageous to have

a specialist available to sasist our personnel und to assure timely completion

of the tests. Accordlagly, it 1s requested that a contract be let with the

Collies Feãlo. Compony for the services of a Fleld Zervice Engineer. It is

presentir estimated thai the services of this Enginesr will be reguired at

for approsinately si to eight weeka depending on test

reculta. The exact date ou voich the Ingineer 15 needed vill be deterninea

os preliminary lastallation of the equiprent le completed. For planning

purposes, however, ve astimate he will be reguired on or about 6 Marca 1957.

3. It is understood from diseussions with Collins representatives at

Temport Beach, California, that engineering services of this type cost

approximately $3,000 per nonth la addition to travel exsenses.

chat the services of Moden Field Service Engineer, Ma.

he secured, as lie had an Agency TOP SECRET clearance affective 10 kay, 1965.

#. For any additional laformation, please contact Nr.

on Extenaion 2045.

06.

Diractor of Communications

Actoshment:

Jaquest for Frocuresent Services

-w: +101494017

iT :

..-...

---

## Page 2

14-00000

i...

SUBJACT:

Eequest for Cervices di Colline Modes Field Service

Eagineer

CONCURIENCE:

""? 199?

(Signed) RICHARD H. LANSDALE

Dirite of Ceneral couasel

Morton G. 2sstreel

Director of recurity

8 FEB 1967

Bato

15/ Dow E. Iuchoohor

Director di Persomel

Districution:

0218- 1 - Addressee w/atte

1 - Aracior of security t/o att.

2. - Director ot Personel w/o ett,

I - General Counsel 4/0 ait.

₴F== 1957

Cate

-20T

---

