# 104-10219-10034

## Page 1

4-011110

104-10219-10034

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONFIDENTIAL

(when filled in)

9-28-49

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

CASI

0000

18: /18/10|22

FORRARDED

но.

DAY

2222/29/2520

22012

321

61 4 0 1

SUBJECT AND AHEA

Planning of Coup Against the Government of the Bahamas..

COMTAct®Nase Parla, Organizorion, Address)

Joseph Merola

Gordon Cooper and Associates

Opa-Locka, Florida

SOURCE (Nomo, Tarle, Organizclion, Address)

Same as above

BUB-SOURCE (Namo, Tillo, Organirarion, Address)

METHOD OF COLLECTION

INTERVIEW

TRIP REFORT

OTHER DOCUMENT

SUP

sOv

INT

DIRECTEOTO

OTHER (spocity balon)

CASE OFFICER

SPRyan

FIELD COMMENTS

A) Re Watts/Bem telecon, 10 Septenber

1974.

B) The meeting took place the morning

of 7 September 1974 in Miant.

Joe Marola

telephoned Matt Maclane at his home on

7 September 1974 to pass on this informa-

tion. The telecon was unsolicited by

MacVane, who no longer contacts Merola

per DCD Headquarters instructions.

Robinson flew in from Nassau to neet with

Joe Merola and Mike Yamanis (Yamanis is

apparently from Ft. Lauderdale and like

Merola he has close ties to arms dealers

and mercenaries).

Robinson plans to meet

again with Merola and Yamants after com

plete financial details liave been worked

out in Nassau.

Filed: 101900Z

KIA KLA

F.O. CHIEF

Hackare

FORM 25

slatewaring

INDIVIDUAL NO.

00-E

RELEASED

us.

UAY

00.01/02| 00.00

071/34

* NOT

DISSEM

MATED

AGANIZATION NO.

PURI CATIONS,

ПЕРОВУВ, ОТИСЯ

SUBJECT

*

17/40|00100

INDIVIDUAL NO.

CIENTLY

KNOWN

¿ENERAL

PROCEIDING

ELEMENT

110200/00

DRGANIZATION NO.

INDIVIDUAL NO.

GLE

ORGANIZATION NO.

SUPPLIED

Y OTHER

¡ENCIES

a. OTHER/M AC.

B. COMBINED WITH

• INSUFFICIEN

"TERESI

CVALUATION

REQUESTED FHOR

EXCHANGES

AESDONBIVE TO SPRCIFIE

REQUIREMENTS

ICHECK ONE!

NO

TO USER.-

FROMUSSA

HEADQUARTERS COUMENTS.

Process sheet -and report typed in

osS.

(MIAHI TX 12584)

WHATCAR

AL Ramas

3 B 000|

CASE OFFICER

7.028

DIVISIOWST

SPRyan

CONFIDENTIAL

OSS

1. 8Y 00762

:X-2 IMP. DET

---

