# 104-10186-10270

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10270

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATIONG EPORTE

ALINFORM LONGRERORLE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

mis marantal roaralhe intormaitro afarting to Nartunal lairnt of the linitel brares wilhin the meanine of the laptontes

SECRET

As and The the drarelaht it toreialts of alhit in ant manner lu an undushallend terena la promidden ground Use Only

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

RETURN TO CIA

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT Manuel PINEIRO Losada

REPORT NO.

Do Not Reproduce

CS CT-316/00698-64

DATE DISTR

27 August 1961

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

CSCI-3/780,985

16 April 1964

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Mashington, D.C.

DATE ACQ. AuguSt 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments:

The following report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the indivlduals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

5

3

2

office is also located at this address.

Although PINEIRO

has more than one telephone number, the only one source could

recall was 29-4257.

2.

PINEIRO is a close friend of Carlos Manuel LECHUGA Hevia, the

Cuban Ambassador to

Cs an Habana he spenus much tame with PINEIRO.

and when LECHUGA

Source reported that the training for revolutionary actlvity

in Zanzibar was arranged directly by Fidel CASTRO and PINEIRO

(the NGI as an organization had nothing to do with the

arrangements for the training).

1.

5.

PINEIRO was born about 1929, is about five feet ten inches

tall, wieghs about 250 pounds, and has a heavy build.

has brown hair and eyes,

a bushy, reddish beard, and a

flushed, freckled complexion.

Source said that sometime after March 1961, PINEIRO traveled

to Moscow. 1

5

4

3

• 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

REP

CINCLANT

¡Nora fiold dusribution indicored by "#".)

INSA

TXXX

I OCR

FBI 2

CINCSO # I&NS

INFORMATION REBORE

INFORMATION RERORI

1!

CLILLA

_KH/SA/FOBLAELIR

HIL, SAILOR! L HELMADR

BIL-SAIR

1

Winch.

WH: HATE

TOTALS

#H/SA 7 (1), WE 1. (2), CI J, RID 1

I LE CANADALI

JLX-1644

NO PROJECT (ANNIUOT

:SC1-316/00698089

RIDIAN

COOADIMATING A

LIAISON#

WMK: LD: 30k

CI/R&A

OBSOLITE PRENTOLS EDITIONS

201-238687

- 1301

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

- 2-

Heidguarters Comments

1. There has been no pertinent additional information concerning

Monuel PINEIRO Lusade since the dissemination of the above

relerence report except for the travel information below:

A flight manifest reverled that Pinelro, his wife,

corna BURDsaLl de Pineiro, and hi: son, Manuel Kohlil

INEIRO Burdsall, transitea Shannon Airport enrout

rom Prague to Mabana on CSA Flight OK 523 on 11 May 1964

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

