# 104-10433-10011

## Page 1

1704-10433-10011 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1986 - 467

14 June 1967

2

Disposition - This document was denied. The document transmitted a

emorandur written by a State Department official concerning a contact lie had

with an individual alleging having become acquainted with Lee Harvey Oswald

in Mexico City. The State Department office,'s memorandum is an attachment

to this document. The attachment has been referred to State Depaitrent:

which will deal with it directly. The Agency dispatch transmitting a copy of

this memorandum will not be released since it discusses the contents of the ..

attachment in such a way as to reveal completely the contents. The Agency

document also contains information confirming the existence of an Agency

station in a specific city abroad, information identifying Agency components

Agency staff employees, Agency cryptonyms and Agency internal filing

instructions. The document is therefore denied inder the authority of

exemptions (b)(1) ; (b)(2) and (b)(3).:

1086 - 967

AMENDED COMMENT

This document has been referred to the Department of State which has not

yet responded as of 30 January 1978.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

INFO.

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

CLASSIFICATION

(SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

-NOS

OFFICER

Đ0 3221:

MARKEO FOR ROERING

aptim is

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

Signod:

CAN JUGE INDEXING

I FROM

Chief

Western Hemisphere Division

F.0.

1is98

MICROFILM

SUBJECT

Kennedy Assassination Report on Oswaldts: TV.p. Lo-lexico City

ACTIOM REQUIRED - REFERENCE EY

LETTER FROM

BENJIMING.

ONSUL TAMPICO

MEXICO,

DEPAR-FMENT

AMERICAN

OFT STAt

DESCRIBING ALLEGATIONS OF UNDISCLOSEO

SOURCE

CONCERNING

MARIE

PRO-CASTRO

sent to the Department of State, Washington,

of I1 May 1967, a copy of which is berewith attached.

sent in response to a request by his desk officer in

OSWALD

BALOWN FOR CUBA)

Lo This report constitutes

the first piece of substantive

normation about Lee Harvey Oswald's sojourn in Mexico City to

appear since the assassination of President Kennedy. We under-

stand the reluctance of the unidentified source to become

involved, but the fact remains that this information cannot con-

tinue to

be withheld or concealed.

3. It is requested that you conter with lir. Ruyle to deter-

mine the identity of the source and the best way

of approaching

His destro to stay out of trouble seems likelier to be

giatitled through cooperation with U. S.

authorities than it

would be if we

were forced to turn the matter over to the Mexican

1 Jit is also requested that you determine whether

attached information has been made

available to LNERGO and, if

it has not, to request that this step be taken..

5. The information needed is the identity of the source, an

approximate date for the two days spent with Oswald,

the identities

of all others in contact with Oswald at that time, and a detailed

account of what happened.

Although the Warren Commission obtained no lacts pointing

o homosexuality on Oswald's part,

this allegation has been made

elements of the press covering District Attorney Jin Garrison's

Document Number

1086-967

201-289248

continued

1 Cot for FOIA Review on

SEP 1976 CS COPY

CROUP 1

Excluded from salomate

downgrading and

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH

SYMBOL

AND NUMBER

DATE

14 June 1967

367

HOS FILE NUMBER

SECRET

201-289248)

ORIGINATING

W. J. Raufman

TYPIS

1m

COORDINATING

17375

DATE

14/1/12

OFFICER'S NAME

Don Pra H

in draft

as seen and

STAMEWH

no coLoning action to

at 4401s

asses

Biend:

115/X700002

25..

DESI

DUSTRACT

INDEE

FORM

53

USE PREVIOUS COITION

OFFICE SYMBOL

C1/5tol

279

OFFICÉ SYMBOL

с/WH/1

DATE

(40)

RELEASING

5. Kaufman

DISPATCH

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SBCRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

iovestigation

in New Orleans.

It is therefore

necessary to bear

this possibillty in mind when interviewing the source and others

who spent time with Oswald in Mexico City.

It is our hope that

the facts obtained through these interviews will belp to contirm

that soveral of Garrison's allegations

about involvement of anti-

Castro Cubans, WOFACT, etc., are false.

8.

We are coordinating closely in this matter with wowuss)

(THOMAS W. LUND)

ATTACEMENT:

Cotter from American Consul in Tampico

DISTBABOTION

0718 a I -COs, Moxico City (w/att.)

.=-

7462025E2

FORM

8-64

53 a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

601-289248

JCONTINUED

SECRET.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

DEPARTE OF UTTE

CONSULATE:

OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Tampico, Hexico

DIn.

Dry.

POL

AFS

MAY 2 G 1967

ESCH

AID ..

Nay 11, 1967

Official-Informal

CONF IDENTIAL

Wesley D. Boles, Esquire

Chief, Hexican Political Affairs, Office of Mexican Affairs

Dopartment of State, Washington, D. G. 20520

Doar Wos:

ho missing too Harvey Oswild airgram reforred to in your lottor o

pril 1h is Tampico's A-43, which 1 draited on March 1o. It ough

to have reached you beforo April I-

I had originally debated with myself whether to send anything at all,

considering my "informant" did not seem to offer anything new. How

ever, in viow of the admittedly "electrifying quality" of the subject,

I finally decided to rocord the matter.

Because of your lotter, I invited my friend to lunch today. We went

over the ground in somewhat more detail, as set forth below, but he

did not claim he was making world-ghaking revelations, and I do not

boliove he was.

He said he and a group of fellow students met Oswald one afternoon

(ho does not recall the date) when they came out of the Cineclub,

which I undoratood to bo at the bacuela do Filosofia (I am not famillar

with tho University of Merico).

llo deseribed Oswald as "raro" and

rxrux8707 "introvertido", a person who obviously had complexes and

problems.

Oswald was with the group during the remainder of the afternoon and

eveniny and all the following day. They paid for his meals during this

(It was of interest to me my informant said that, in addition to

rocognizing Oswald's photograph following tho assassination of Prosidont

ho oasily rocalled Oswald's name because both "Harvey" and

"Oowald" connotod rabbit to him, something I had not thought of.)

Oswald

ovidently had gone to the university tu look for pro-Castro students

who might, holp hin persuado tho Cuban Embassy to grant him & visa.

He

spoke littlo Spanish,

but indicated he vas from California, as wall as

that ho had been a member of a pro-cistro group in New Orleans (no

201-289.278

---

## Page 5

13-00000

-?:.

a tra rital dissos had Miracle merstand polico agencics

19120111drea").

rucid an intorest in palading til

liy friord reports tho Cuban Jcasey turnal Cald down fron tho cutoct,

aprarca:7y in tho firob pison burtuce ducy lad no "provioug" on him

and in tha socond placo beccune thry cuepociod ho vas a U.so agent,

Call 1a0 docply upsot over heing maicoded by tho Cubang. l

antomont nocd tho vora silor 10it ibicrrco noù Jitcrallyo The

craig rei no moro of lowll! c. 400& sond dayo

I- not traing to ho coy chouse ringmanital pano,

I chould

noratholeos lilo to proucet lur in la miont rossiblo.. Ho clains

not to hora ducouscel his croucinto rith Could with anyone excopt

I sako this with a grain do cute, los he doos seem genuinoly

Cozin of loning his job if ho in tiel riblicly to this mattero.

lo olra. coona fearful of troublo vith lin former pro-Castro studoni

dimao 10 thoy cet the irprescien lo lnticall on anyone, I gather

tly 253 not nitogethos "foumer", conridering ho says sons of them

chill vinii, him hero from timo do tinao

Decontally, la claims to hare viriled Cuba, to bo mall comainied

whitl Ros and, to a losco: dure, mich Castro, Ho claims Lurther

the been trichly with oncitt:-. Froenza, who I underatood

hit to my dolcotod from the Culon my in liarico City and my now

1:3 37 /3anl,

" wn he scoraled during cho fior: roning particularly intrigued

5".,

Te roomed ribocquently, and rechahly with justification, especially

s.=217 of tho unpleasant conueguenero which night dorivo from any

mblicy regarding it),

Ho agranted no was she stadont who perconally"

niched restaas the mmel Menan statuo on the UAl campus with

this canitomI beliovo ho caid dummitemnon' it ras mutilatca sono

T.10199o

ins caro my felend my haro schnicadel svorything ho told mo. My

sarconal ovaluation is that he hog torn truthful.

Pirins

in Ja Raylo

wine Consul

201-28924

46449324

---

## Page 6

13-00000

RETyPEd FOR EASiER RE

-2-

mention of Texas). He also rave

then to understand police agencies

in the United states had harrassed him ('lo Hostilizagan").

showed an interest in painting and paintings.

My friend reports the Cuban Embassy turned Oswald down from the outsot,

apparently in the first place because they

"previous"

on hin

and in the second place because they suspected he was a U.s. agent.

Oswald was deeply upset over being rejected by the Cubang.

but I inferred not literally. The

I am not trying to be coy about my 'informant's" name.

I should

nevertholess ilke to protect him to the extent possible. He claims

not to hive discussed his acquaintance with Oswald with anyone except

me.

I tako this with a grain of salt,

but he does seem genuisely

fearful of losing his Job if he is tied publicly to this natter.

He also scems learful of trouble with his former pro-Castro student

friends it they got the impression he

"ratted" on anyone.

I gather

they are not altogether "former",. considering he says some of them

still visit him here from time to time.

Incidentally, he claims to have visited Cuba, to be well acquainted

with Raul Roa

and, to a lesser degree, with Castro.

He clains further

to have been friendly with one Maria Teresa Proenza, who I understood

him to say defected from the Cuban Embassy 1n Mexico City and may now

be in Miami.

One item he "revealed" during our first evening particularly Intrigued

me. He seened subsequently, and plobably with justification, especially

fearful of the unpleasant consequences which might derive from any

publicity regarding it). He asserted he was the student who personally

climbed XKXXXXXXXXXXX the Miguel Aleman statue on the lAid campus with

the dynamite--I belleve he said dynamite- when it was mutilated some

E232

years ago.

I am aware my Iriend my have labricated everything he told no. My

personal

evaluation 1a that he has been truthiul.

Sincerely,

Benjamin J. Ruyle:

American Consul

---

## Page 7

13-00000

1186 - 999 - A

31 July 1975

Disposition - This document was denied. The document is a review of

information in the Oswald 201 file which still warrants continued protection

under the classification system. The document identifies and explairs the

nature of the hazard that would be involved for a number of foreign intelligerice

sources and operational methods if this document or other documents containing

information on the same activities were to be released. The information is

properly classified and denied. This particular document also contains

information identilying an Agency staff employee and Agency internal filing

instructions. The document was therefore denied under the authurity of

exemptions (b) (1), (b) (2) and (b) (3) .

---

## Page 8

13-00000

24

2/12

•31 July 1975

(XAAZ-36%0

MEMORANDUM FOR:

(LA/EICO)

Oir. William Sturbitts

SUBJECT

• Review of Lee Harvey OSWALD 201 File

for Freedom of Information Request

REFERENCE

: Request Number 75-105, 2 June 1975

for FOlA Review on

NOV

1976

Document Number

1186-999A

A review of the Lee Harvey OSWALD file (201-289248)

has been completed by the Mexican Branch) in connection with

reference Freedom of

Information request.

Most of the

information contained in the file that pertains

to Mexico

came from sensitive sources ma methods,

as photo

surveillance, [bilateral teltap and mail

intercept

operations.? Although the mail intercept and

activities have been dicontinued,

that they were in operation in lexico continues

considered sensitive.

The bilateral teltap is still

active, and, therefore, is sensitive.

2..

The Mexican information reviewed covered

th

hee

TRAVEL PROCRAM

PELTIRE FOR TIRES

areas:

employed by the Cuban Embassy

Sylvia DURAN Tirado.

A Mexican female

Mexico who provided

assistance to OSWALD in his attempts

to obtain a Cubam

Information regarding DURAN appears

Report, however, it is not attributed

Agency.

The Government of Mexico (GOM) did arrest and interrogate

DURAN re her connection with OSWALD,

and a copy of

GON deposition appears in the Report.

The deposition was

turned over to the Commission by the GOM via State Department.

Since knowledge of DURAN's contact with OSWALD originally

came to both the GOM's and Agency's attention via.the

(bilateral,teltap, all mention

Agency knowledge or

participation in

DURAN'S arrest and subsequent interrogation

has been marked for non-release.

Photo of unidentified man (taken in front of

the Sovlet Embassy in Vexico.

This photo was taken

Station Mexico

photo survoillance of the Sovict Embassy

the month of October 1963.

When news of the

arrest of OSHALD as Kennedy's assassin became known,

the Station immediately forwaided copies of the photo

to the FBI in the mistaken assumption that the photo

was of OSWALD taken while he was in Mexico that fall

It was later determined that the photo was not of OSWALD

and in tact had been

1d00

080038

(OSWALD WAS

in Mexico from 26

•aren 26 september that delorer 1o6s.)

Even though the photo was not of OSWALD it had been shown

to OStilD's wile and mother, with the background partially

(201- 0259218)

---

## Page 9

13-00000

CX1A2-36Y09

cropped in an

eftort to disguise the place.

where

the

photo had been taken. The photo became somewhat of

an

issue when the Warren Commission decided it belonged

in the Report as part of the exhibits since it had been

shown to the OSWALDs.

The Agency finally allowed the

picture to appear in

the report with the background

completely blocked out and with the agreement that

no

mention would be made about where it had been taken.

As far as can be determined, the Agency has never

admitted publicly that the photo was taken in Mexico,

even though there has been a great deal of speculation

to that effect by several authors and journalists.

As

a matter of fact, one of the lawyers who worked with the

the Agency has not revealed the actual location, only

saying it was taken somewhere outside the U.s.

All

mention of the photo has therefore been marked to be

withheld, because of sensitive sources and methods

involved.

C.

Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte.

ALVARADO, a

Nicaraguan citizen, walked in to the U.S. Embassy in

claiming to have knowledge re Kennedy's assasination

Me as learned that ALVARADo was en agent for the Nicararman)

Intelligence Service (NIS), however his story re the

assassination was separate

from his work for the NISS. After

lenginy interrogation,

it was

determined that ALVARADO had been fabricating a story claiming

he had seen OSWALD receive

official at

the Cuban Enbassy in Nexico.

The ALVARADO Story appears

in the Warren Report but it does not reveal his identity.

In

order to continue to protect ALVARADO and the Nicaraguan

government from possible embarrassment all mention of

ALVARADO has been marked for non-release.

aS A list and copies of douments from the OSWALD file

have been forwarded to your office for review by other (LA)

branches and possibly other Divisions.

The documents

according to which volume they belong

the 201 file (there

are 57 volumes plus many bulky atachments.)

During the review, it was necessary several times to

refer to the Warren Report and the exhibits to ascertain

exactly what was already known about the Mexican aspect of the

It is doubtful that the other branches will find this

necessary, but in case they do, the Warren Report is held

in the Library.

03.

Jack Nathews

/ LA/Mexico

(201-0239248)

---

## Page 10

13-00000

1194 - 985

24 Noverber 1963

Disposition - This document was numbered and included in this list:

in error. The document originated with the Department of Navy, lo which

it has been referred for direct response.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

TOP SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED when blank-TOP SECRET when attached to Top Secret Document- Automatically downgraded to SECRET when

filled in form is detached from, controlled document.

CONTROL AND COVER SHEET FOR TOP SECRET DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION:

REGISTRY

Source!

NAVY

DoC. No. XAAZ- 35706

Doc. Date 24 NOU

63

Copy No.

Number of Pages:

4

Number of Attachments

Document Number

1194-985

CIA Control No.

768255

Date Docuren't Received

1976;

for FOlA Review. on

1976

Logged. By

And AT ONe Them will a alceo opened attached to echo see humen received by he date yell on de Agent ouse!..

of ClA. Access to Top Secret matter is limited to Top Secret Control personnel and those individuals whose official duties relate to the matter. Top

Secret Control Officers who receiva and /or release the attached Top Secret material will sign this form and indicate period of custody in the left-

hand columns' provided. Each individual who sees the Top Secret document will sign and indicate the date of handling in the right-hand columns.

REFERRED TO

A RECEIVED

RELEASED

VISTANT: SEEN BY

Signature:

DDPITSCO

S. PRa

2: Date.

29 15%6

Time:

Date Time

Signature:

Office/Div.

vale

29 NOY

GEURGE BRADLEY

DID ISCO

5550004

NOTICE OF DETACHMENT: Wher this form is detached from Top Secret material it shall be completed in the appropriate spaces below and trans.

mitted to Central Top Secret Control for record..

TO

By (Signature)

OFFICE

DATE

DESTROYED

BY (Signature)

-WITNESSED BY (Signature)

OFFICE

DATE

DISPATCHED (OUTSIDE CIA)

TO

BY (Signature ange

OFFICE

DATE

FORM 26 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(OP-1).

RECORD. OPTOP SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AROMATIC DOWGRADING

AND DECLASSIFICATION

(40)

---

## Page 12

13-00000

Ten Day

, TOP SCHED

NON-CIA TELETYPED MESSAGE 15=3

:R90W8

i SC

P 240.1154 ZD

FM CLUSNA CANSERRA.

TO ROSCH/ONI.

MODELEGRET FOLLOW SINI

CW9015

Document Number

1194-985

for FOlA Revidue on

PREC

3 HOu 6.

NAVY CABLE

XAAZ+35706

TEP SECRET

Be.

TOPSEC

Z4 NO 63 IN6 7 327

PROS ALSO TO CIA

POSSESE SOVIET INFORMER

2-RE

3-1S

IS ASO". LUSNA RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALL 23 NOV

FROM PERSON

5-061

CLATHENS TO BE POLISH DRIVER OF MUSSIAN VEHICLE. MOST OF

21-516

B2FE

13-5115

2.0-58

CON/CASATION RECORDED BY ALUSNA, INFO TOUCHES

ON SEVERAL

B-ADDI

ARIAS INCLUDING: POSSIBLE CONNECTION SOVIET GOVI SUPPLYING q-SDI

BONGY TO INDIVIDUAL IN U.S: TO ASSASSINATE PRESIDENI;

POSSIBLE SOVIET IMPLICATION IN U.S.S. THRESHER INCIDENT;

SYSTEM OF USSR EMBASSY PERSONNEL MESTING MIGRANT: TO

"- 041/58

120850/51244

13005115060

PAGE 2 FUSCOR OOZA TOP SECRET

15-051/05

AUST LIN, PROVIDING FALSE PASSPORTS AND SENDING THEM TO

15-- ONE

16-17-0R2

OTHER COUNTRIES; RUSSIAN MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO CUBA AND

18-BR

INDONG ENS RUSSIAN CONTACE WITH COOPERATIVE IN INDO EMBASSYA-OS

CANSERRA, EMPLOYEE IN AMEMB CANBERRA SWOMAND WHO IS GIVING

- 768253

TOP

RECORD COPY•

5201-289248

---

## Page 13

13-00000

CASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOP SECRET

22L GE 203

INOC "O SOVIET EMB; SENDING OF ACNTS FRON

AUST TO U.S.

HE YOU SAVE CONSIDERARLS DETAIL ON MODUS OPERANDT OF TWO

SOURS? MOONSS EX SYDNEYO

2. FIRSON HAS ISREED TO MEETING WITH ASST ALUSNA IN SYDNEY

IM BOAP PITURE.

NAS ASKED FOR ASSURANCE HE WIL!, BE PROTECTED

IF HE COSPERA: 163

TOLD THAT THIS COULD BE DISCUSSED AT FIRST

NESTINE,

ALAN 29,24

the =9

3O AMBRUSADOR;

INFORMED, (

CONDUCTING

SURVEILLANCE FOR WELL DESCRIBED CAR AND

DRIVER WHO CLAIMS

TO SC IN CANBERRA NOW: KEEPING SOVIET ERJASSY UNDER SURVEILLANCE;

RE WATCH RE PHONE SIGMANGE 55 TRAGE ADDITIONAL CALLS)

EN CA: 21924

HAS ARRANGED TO MAXE IMMEDIATE SURVEILLANCE

OF CRISUNACOR AND/OR PLAGE FROM WHICH CALL MADE.

PLAN TO

¡ COVER MESTING OF ASST ALUSNA IN SYDNEY IF IT EVENTUATES.

≥4

•SO ON IS OCTOBER 1962 A SIMILAR CALL WAS RECEIVED AT EMB

PAGE 3 RUDOOR TOP SECRET

POSSISLY FROM SAME PERSON. IN THAT CALL REFERENCE MADE: TO

•PLOT WITH REVARD 100,00O DOLLARS TO KILL PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

CALSER ALSO STATED USSR SUBS ON WAY TO CUBA WITH TROOPS

•WHOSE SECOND OBJECTIVE TO GUARANTEE SUPPORT TO GOVERNOR

OF MISSISSIPPI, SUBSTANCS OF CALL PASSED TO

AT THAT

TIME SUT NO FURTHER INFO DEVELOPED.

29

GO WHILE SOME ASPECTS INDICATE INDIVIDUAL A CRANK OTHERS

SESH MORE AUTHENTIC. ALL PARTIES, INCLUDINE AMBASSADOR,

FEEL MATTER SHOULD BE INVESTIGATED UNTIL ADDITIONAL FACTS

768255

TON SECRIT

71PV

---

## Page 14

13-00000

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

TOP SECRET

ARE-US-SLOPED OR EXISTINO LEADS HAUS BEEN EXHAUSTED.

7• ALUSTA MAKING VERBATUM TRANSCRIPT. OF RECORDING WITH

SOMMENTS TO BE SENT NEXT POUCH

SP-3.

PAGE 30E3

768255

¡ Copy!

I TOP SECAST

тт я71ы-17452045XEraka

---

## Page 15

13-00000

SECRETI

NON CIA TELETYPED MESSAGE

ASIS

::2006

57327

P: 175

23&

7322W

SE FUECO?

938 2: 18257

P 241818Z

BT

SECRET

SU!

ONE

ZORR

ậ 5 Nay 63 1467 4: 5

SVC

1'8 002A/240415Z INS. C CLASSIFICATION TO READ

SHATTER LINITED SICTRIBUTION VICS TOP SECRET

NANN

1836.

S&

FE

FlINT

2500

file.

calito Cantera

‚copy l"

16425

201-289348

---

