# 104-10172-10154

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10172-10154

-tri

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ONE PORTANOEM FION REPORTIA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S+-C-R-E-T

NOFORN/CONTINIED CONTROL

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Gabe

Diaploasure of Porelgn Communiato

Over Cuban Arrogance in Ideological

Mattora

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTA

CS5-3/524,422

20 June 1962

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

RD

DATE Of

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

Hid-Hay 1962

SOURCH

England, London

Laina 1962

RELO REPORT NO.

TAIS I UNEVALUATED INPORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVR

¡ Iron "a rogular sourco, quoting Sovan Mirto,

corrospondent In Gube for TANJUO, Yugoslav prosa agency. "

os Contonte 3.

Appraisal

1.

The Sovlot Unton has olearly accepted Fidel Castro as the loader of the

Caban revolution,

sinoo in any case there 1s no ono else, and apparently

also as a sincore Marxist-Ioninist, Hoverer, the Sovlots and other foreign

Communists resent the revolutionary arrogance of Castro, Who has admitted

to having road only 370 pages of Das Kapital, which he says he may study

nore when he has timo.

2.

The change of the Cuban youth organization's nene fron Association of

Joung Rebela to Loague of Young Communlats 19 rogarded anorug foreign

Marxista as ridioulous.

3. An 11lustration of corolen Communiats' irritation al Cuban arrogance

occurrod during a pross conference early in May given by two Spanish

Communiato in Habana.

The spanlards had said that the Spanish Communist

Party was trying to pohlove power by moans of strikas and other non-

violent action in order to avold another civil var.

A Cuban journallot

chided them for this statement, and asked scornfully, "Don't you have

sountains?" With some irritation one of the Spaniards replied that, Just

as the Cuban revolution had toen made in a way quite different fron the

many that had preceded It, so the Spanish revolution would be unique,

dependont on conditions inaldo Spain and on decisions taken by Spantards

alone.

S,095a

S-E-C-R-E-T

NOF ORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

LX AIR

IXINSA TRIOR JELDIA

INFORM

CIACO

IQ/PIRIT

REPOR

TEH HAVE

12

N5/5

TEW/R

HE/MADR

TEW/INT

2 TEWSI

TENCI

WE/PARI

TWEI

TOTALO DISSEM SEE 1,

E?,

WH A (1), IW 11 (1).

CI 5, FI 3, OS 1, WE 3,

INFORMATION REPORT

0516-32835

NO PHONEC

(SHOTH) O

65=3/5742422

УотО

NETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

