# 104-10071-10076

## Page 1

advanta

1104-10071-10076

D.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce T-513

SGCAST

30

ROUTING AND RECONO

FASTERATIONS: Officar daalgratione should bo used in the "TO" column. Undar cach common a lino cieula ba drawa escãso eltras

and each commant numbored to corrospond with the number in tha "TO" column.

Eoch officer should inidal (choch mart lossi: talent)

bolero luncher routina.

Thia Routing and Rocord host should be roturod to Registry. 23

RI

(STT2 406

dArt

10051

DATE

FEND

SElY

1010

J

4388 29

29644

121227

RAC

fF.

29 ken

R.R.0.

RR

19 (4ag 13 May

11. 14y

JM

Is cour thet

40518-48868

Wup 4 may 1953

10.

18.

I.A.D.

28

Bad

76

ABSTRACT

DATE

526

EPRODUSTIONS

INDEX

ROSM NO 11-10

SECRET

8910

---

## Page 2

14-0000

15-3

E7100O

1p. of penari n

Dide budden:

Ву сору to:

SECURITY INFORMATION

SECRET CONTROL

U. S. OFFICIALS ONLY

Mas Estralaamas

1 and xi renar en03o

Oralis 10:

Chron

FIROO (D)=]

CORATE

02

Goarco, Operational Dato, and Cotsoado:

2.

02

On 15 end 20 Laroà 1953, OVERAN& SOLOZOd ta 10105238109 10 Ea

It 10 conderal thai raolodo muld havo mado the oceanto roporded

horosa is ha had any seas that thay would readi effiedas Analesa

chamale.

the seat tise tarose boato es menziy to lorails so

It 18 regeontod that tO attached poporE tO Ulroa liettes dia

spibution to protoot the sonatity os overns.

DUSTINES

500м то.

R00 1000

01.89

SECRET CONTROL

U, S. OFFICIALS ONLY

RI COPY

8910

22 irinar. 5-3

ci:>

1-526

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ni sissies fl it a missi do

SECRET CONTROL

U.S. OFFICIALS ONLY

23

Subjoot:

Ranarko by fugoslav 08810101

RoporE No:

406

Dato of Inforaation: 25 February 1953

Placo Acquired: Triedto

Date Aoquipod: 15, 18 Marol 1959

Evaluation: B/6

Dato of Roport: 8 A5512 1953

SOurco: An AROrIOn Ião 10 da frionAly torna tEh lugoslaY offlodale in

Par10.

1. Remarka Bada by sorElo tiddlado, datina chargo desselroo ol tha segooler

BEDaE3Y, PardO, ero cumarised balow.

2.

Ferdiga, and in partioular, Anariola businsonian havo slitlo proopset of

dolly busine in rugoalaria dE tho procent tea beanuea of tha Leel of

dollar exchange 1n Yuposlavia.

The drought in lugoclavie in 1952 ma0 for

worda than had firat beon ootinatads as a robult, esponditures for leporto

of gooda ochor than raconaltion have boon drastically ourtallod.

ragonLar leadoro aro sOst anxious to obtain privato eradits fro abroca

and to attacot capital inuatmonto to ragodlavo. "What Ingoslara nsoda

10 monay and dod forbid 1i tha unitoil Beatos doco nos gava 18 to 10°.

rugoalala do 11 a bed epat, end coa do businada abroad only 18 eacho aro

§cand to finanoo duan trado.

4. Yugoslar loadoro aro convercad ovor tha proopsaro of outo 1n lulted Brates

Ad tO rugOslavia dingo olaches 1u foraiga ald eppoer to be da copeat of

tho polloy of tha Licontonor adainlotration. Tia Unitad State will cot,

however, curd ald to Italy not that tha influential lie. ClairO BoOtleco

10 cadassador to that couairy.

5.

Tho Esconhover Adainiotration 10 corpoced of ralitomairon and resotionariod.

Thon Mariedo mao told that a formar labor loador 10 nou a nandor of tho

Meaniboror cabinas, ha ropliad that supluentlal leadara of tha recationary

American Fodoration of Labor havo liod up with a ronationary edaaalotration.

It 10 BOSE RUfOFRanatO, Ballodo deOlared, that tho san edeindetration 10

not a progressivo onE.

6.

SPajan PriCa, FugODlaY Asiacoador to Franso, 10 sea convalocalag cltar

undargoing on operardon. Halstedo taplled that caring to oparation

1t tao discovered that prica had treces of sosa fanalo organs.

thei was of entered to Reele:

F:.

ClABBIfICALIGN

• ilorse Will 23

P001000 91-88

(767-9-7-5261

---

