# 104-10520-10086

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10520-10086

1s,

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

rdugiliont.of

CHA - 033)

Chrol, ina

Chief, GiVE

Gaurunional boads/ Unidad "ovolucson.rio (UR)

letion "equestud: =) For incorration mni possiblo oxolaliacs

i) Carding and iriezing

1.

en 12 dares life Sandlago Gistator Alonso Chordinater riorroi to.

as the conco), Alica dacistration rumber A 1E052749, bora 26 July 30

Eagana, was intorviciodo tils idand a iress 1s 237 SW Is= Sarait, Apt.

25% colophons on scion to can to rischid 373-9550.

2.1

Sonico sild trat io sas a roabir of Untand Povoluciosario (UR) and

that ho was in toucis with Puuro 1032 Pureranda, the jenorai ecordinator

or tha UR uno 13 c41i1 insido Cuba, Roforo Juaving Gusa IOSE told tho

source that on any in the Unlica Sortes, ha should ty to zio contact

wach oithor furl MIllancoa 0r Frans Deloito es Lo, I0BD2, Ens contact with

CoLl men in Cuez ari bai coopuruted tIth tues. LOPES toLd mo sourco that

haland the organizatica, tho UR, nocdod plistle explosives an garandos.

¿o also sali that the U3 15 collocting antontion which kill do roziy sor

transnittal on or about 20 March 62.. This icornation Isaiaios diagrams

02 the Sholl and Stardard Ebbiese rifinarlos in Fabera, a las: 01 Counta

ent C- 2 menberg, ari shipping Info:nation on all dubaa paris, shortag

tho dito the voicols arrivo, date oû departuri, ind the idaraig oi tho

cargo.

3.

Tho sourco said trat L0252 can be rescuud in tho fallo dag days:

do A =alli; aóroes 15 Pedro Logie, 12jo, San bacaro SPLAlios,

entra marina y Soltaza, Fubarao Shi tileptona runtor 1s 7il:2?. Tils

1s tha haro or Loaszo relativos, ani trut aly can get 1a loses aith

10.2 quickly.

Do IOP3Z 11ie3 at Focol Vista il jui, Cailo La y Palaura, Agio 22.

Vedado, injoso ideang to saxo puricani concos aLouis dio de 80210-19g

---

## Page 2

PH4R+44 3149849

14-00000

Page 2

Tho tropiono number fun tha kobel Vict ad %6r 15 3-3076.

4o Tho scuico cald that oilor re those do contiot lone ara co tolloisi

His house

ca flicson and "ju suvots 1s under tho protecilon us du Suiss, ind a jilca flie Illos

ovur tho housa, but 1t is minardod, und prople can unior and louro fricly, LOPeZ

ars Valencin aro In contact ani cho latter 1s willing lo bolo in aty vag isit kaz dono

so i the fast, Valoreia 15 diso In contact dith raurerentlivoa de tre Italian and

Aunch Eribassles.

Elina sorone delayas, straitini, Ances 2 sil recigien

So I0P52 can ba, roachica through Justo WriS ard Luis SLiCe, 2329 S 27t5 avo.

an inerican Arlica as a cordo charnol

arito and out os cuis.

itracio RUH.?

So L0?Da toli thu sourco chit to has accus to llchiny boats which can di ured to

brinò explosives into Cuba. Ey salu that too couts iü day uthor2sd tiüldrz boats

which tavo tho ricossary paoirs to rich in Caban dators irs rotura to their Cuban ports.

6. Tho sourco doscribid ICiDE as boing 49- t jias of aça, stoct, acaro dataarkisox

classos, so roueticho, and us boa tili, cuid badlo la monke la the jort of

Labara, filliü cut and obiiring necessary chica furai, but bicause of Cuben

goveranent custor regulations, obristing: the socesslüy for such dote, 5a wall suon

ba unasalogod.

?. Tha sourco said that the li and tho jo of inveioor grin aro dui icidarz togethor

irsida Cubio la sald that during tha fires puri on Fabruary 62 ta la carted a

C- 2 car outoido tho Arenal theater in'Aabars, cling 2 do 2 lon aid LOStE Cao UR

nas, lo said thit this type of osaaalon, aimllro cars, aupealo to the la and

For this prason IOPi is particularly destruzza dû obtuing tard irunades. Eu easd

they haulà lixo to arbura a suidat do Sacellar car, und raiso turno aroug tro

Soviet and Satollite tectricalas in Cuba.

8. Tha source sali thit no is vold shit trio ba las several suda ircups in tho

9.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

2=2 3.

ANSIBN

1:

a satis tot baba longer at the

Do Puzour.

i1u brothor was an Ambaccador

to Costa fica during the can de salicie

¿purca know CALTO In Caracas

ding tho theo of the cat Femiution, in tat Chito bao 8100o sabriced

cancurios.

• 10." Tho sourco cald dina rielazia; cardo eatet in labara, ard said that

supurato ration cords war: assaud too viruse arous, Thera 1s a card for

meet, ono for luid an suires, ind notor ericica tVarica" welch was tha

cund for toothpaste ani trans ci

this titio

Éo bald that on the boitos of

card thou moro spices for tea various coits ind on receiving this tonth's

"ne bearer of the card sist' also

shor that his ront for me zaca dus pula brauro brican be his ratioria Ho

expi snod trot the rossor not curio ana pitely suen outsido cuba is tha

faut thit 1t 1s Issuod 1à samusala, inó at 13 conorally ioft buhul to enablo

Lu mari randining suba si do torettola es cortirus recolving t'sir

ratiors.

11o: Soundo my was a priano to ton o auda danglo Paruandes, a "abara

plaing flin, hid at jess: on too locatons wich ho krad oto Cao 19

ca Coispo straou entra droonto j sua Ra Igraçto; tre octor ca Sanja

entra San Frarcisco y Esomicio, Eo duilanca ine forner bed 30 esployee,

and da latter 200 lo suis to basalt casud to tra fortor printlaz shop

ricontig, but as to tha durat. to sull te tag rover seen any outsido

motoition shurivur ho bas persus tia

---

## Page 4

14-000000

Pace it

12.

¡Pho sourco suis that ho could not raun to Cuba Logalis, he sas uso

trico tu though, tut ho soula ba sade to esoperata 1r 2as day lia coulo.

---

