# 104-10165-10035

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10165-10035

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

QASSIFICATION

TRANSMITTAL

OF

SECRET

TOES JORMATION REPORS

CIG.

Marge CoraRzio/sk

BOUTING

UNIT

/SA/Intel/Reports

il;

хт.

55-17

LATE

25 May 1964

CONFRULTSN COPIES

VH/SA 13

TDCSDB-3/661,422

INFORMATOR COPIES

CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, IN, CA 2, CA/PEG, DODS, WH 8

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP.

DATE DISTRIBITO

PRECEDENCE

26 May 1964

DISSEMINATICN

SA/R

31 SA/SI

SA/Int

1I SA/WAIT

SA/EOB:

21 SA/SO/EH1

SA/CI !

1! SA/SO/ 1F2)

SA/YOB:

1

REQUESTED

CI

STATE

ARMY

NAVY

ABR

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

THIS IS AN EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB MESSAGE

X ROUTNE I

BASED CN, F. XPT., MEL)

LX-1346

NO PROJECT

Liaison *

EYES ONLY FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL KENNEDY

CSDO: BASIC REPORT WAS NOT SENT TO DCI

RECOMMEND; FOR EXO

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

FOR NSA PASS TO SIGEN FOR TRANSHISSION

NO HARD COPIES TO ELECTRICAL ADDRESSEES

prosed 1355, 264

NO POREIGN DISSEN/CONTROLLED DISSESNO DISSES ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

DO NOt Reproduce

QASSETCATOR

SECRET

COOKDINATANG OFFICER(S)

03

WH/SA/SO Rodrigue

(17 draft)

Hen Kitehens

for.

C/KH/SA/Intel

COPY NO.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CASSINCATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEY/COSTROLLED DISSES/

TDCSDB-3/661, 422

725€

I DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

2. FOR STATE: PLEASE DELIVER COPIES TO ASSISTANT SECRETARY-

INTER-AMERICAN APPAIRS AND COORDINATOR OF CUBAN AFTAIRS.

3.

FIELD DISSEY: NONE.

END OF MESSAGE

но.

JASEFCAID - DEE ASiATIDN CONTROL

S-I.-C-R-E-1

FOREIG! DISSEY/COSTPOLLED DISSEX/NO DISSES ABROAD/BACKGROLID ISE ONLY

EE FEROUS

At 285.

15500000.

_TUITIO' OF TDCS INFCRHATION REO"

---

## Page 3

14-00000

TO FOREIES DISSEY COST ULLED DISSEY/NO DISSEY ABRAD BICEGROLND ISE ONLY

SECRET

CENTRAL IMTELLIGENCE AGENCY

• LOTTISE

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTrY CLBd

'DATE OF

INFO.

23-26 MAY 1964

TDCS DB-3/661,122

DISTR 26 SLIT 1961

_ SUSECT.

ASTICIPATION OF RADIO COSTACI BY HASTEL RAY

RIVERO FROM CUBA TO MIAMI, FLORIDA

ISITED STRIES, MIANT

(26 HIT 1961)

FLACE &

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISAL:

RSF

FIELD REPORT NO

SOGILIO CISTEROS DIAZ, AYO IS ACTING CHIEF OF JURE DERING TEE

ABSENCE OF MANUEL RAY RIVERO.

TO ARIT STAFY COMI: EXCLESIVE FOR ACSI, GENERAL FITCH: VITY DNI,

ADMIRAL TATLOR: AIR FORCE AFCIS, GENERAL TRONAS; TO DIS: ES-

CLISITE FOR GENERAL CARBOLL

NO STATE:

SO DISTRIBUTIOS ESCEPT TO YR. TEOLAS L. ETCHES

10 SSS:

EXCLUSIVE FOR GENERAL BLAZE

RO FBI : FOR MR. S. J. PAPICI

1. PHILE THE MIANI REPRESENTATIVES JE THE JENTA REVOLECIONARIA

CUBITA (JERE, CEBAY RETOLETIONARY JENTA) HAD EOPED THAT HAVEL RAT

BITERO: MOULD HATE ESTABLISHED RADIO CONTACT FROM CEBA TO MIANI ON

SATURDAY, Z3 MAT IS64, FO CONTICT HAD BEEN ESTABLISHED AS OF

4:00 P.H. ON TUESDAY, 26 MAY 1964. JURE EEPRESESTATIVES BELIEVE

THAT NO SETS IS GOOD NEWS AND THE OSLY REJSON FOR THIS IS THAT

RAY HAS SOT TET HAD AN OPPORTUVITY TO CONNENICATE MITE THEY.

SECRET

DRA ABAT/ACSA

STATE DIR

TO: si5d

NO FOREIGN DISSEN COSTROLLED DISSEN/

---

## Page 4

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

SO FOREIGN DISSEY/ CONTROLLED DISSEN/

TDCSDE-3/661, 422

2

NO DISSEM AEROAD/BACKGROEND CSE ONLI

2. FOR STATE: PLEASE DELIVER COPIES TO ASSISTANT SECRET 'RI--

ISTER-AMERICAS APPAIRS AND COORDIKSTOR OF CUBAS AFFAIRS.

3. FIELD DISSEY: TOVE.

END OF HESSAGE

ASSESCA IS -F-C-R-E-

NO-FOREIGN DISSER/CONTROLLED DISSEY/NO DISSEN ABROAD/BACKGRIND ISE ONLY

57-01

ю.

dir

---

