# 104-10048-10063

## Page 1

1704-10048-10063

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

on to:

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

FROM

SUBJECT

: John H. Waller

Inspector General

: Jack Anderson Reference to 28 November

1963 CIA Cable

1. The Operations Group of CI Staff has provided a copy

of the cable about which you inquired. A copy is attached at

Tab A. It is a dissemination of a report by a British journalist

stating that a man named Ruby was in Cuba in 1959, where he

visited an American gangster-gambler named "Santos, " who

was living luxurously in jail. This dissemination was based

on a 27 November 1963 cable from London, a copy of which is

attached at Tab B. A follow-up cable from London on

29 November commented on the source of the story, raising

a question as to his reliability. A copy is at Tab C. A more.

detailed statement about the man is contained in a report

passed to the FBI on 12 December 1963, a copy of which is

at Tab D.

2. On 7 January 1964 the FBI provided CIA with a report

that Jack Ruby did travel to Cuba in 1959; a copy is at Tab E.

On 30 January CIA provided additional information to the

Bureau on this subject; a copy is at l'ab F.

3. The following points of coincidence are probably of

interest to Senator Baker: Jack Ruby did travel to Cuba in

1959, as stated in the report that gave rise to the present

query; the name "Santos' is also the given name of Trafficante,

although it is not clear that these are the same persons. While

there are reservations about the reliability of the source of

the report which gave rise to the present question, we are not

in a position at this time to evaluate it definitively. It is noted

that the description of "Santos" as living in luxury in a Cuban

prison is similar to a version also reported in a 16 May 1974

story in the Outlook Section of the Washington Post.

2:2:193190

D01439

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

4. As you may know, an Agency task force has been

conducting an in-depth study of all information relating to

issues surrounding the Agency's support for the Warren

Commission investigation. This study has been underway

since early July and, because of the detailed nature of the

review, may require as much as another two months if it

is to be completed with the thoroughness that we believe

necessary.

John H. Waller

.....:

Attachments:.

Tabs A thru F

-2-

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

---

## Page 4

13-00000

d'1.

C/HL.3

5513

23. NOVANDER 2503FILE IN CS FILE NO.

THENE HOUSE

ATIN: MR. LICGEORGE FUNDY

DEZARTIERT OF STATE

ATIN: IP. U. ALRIS JOINISON

FEDERAL EUREAU OF IVESTIGATION

CROTTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

5

6

28 As: 63

¡ 6

30z

83 G9RY:

KrS: DEL, D/DCI, DDP, C/CI 2, VR

DEFEATED GET

ROUTINE

• JUMODIATE

10

INFO

CITE DIR

85652

ON 26 NOVEMBER 1963 A BRITISH JOURNALIST NAMERI

SOILY WILSONY, AND ALSO KIONI

AS JOHIT WILSON -HUDSON,

GAVE INFORMATION TO THE AMERICAN EMBASSY. IN LONDON

AROUND 1959.

WILSON HINSELE WAS WORKENG IN CURA AT THE TIME AND WAS JAILED BX

CASTRO BETORE HE WAS DEPORTED.

I FRISON IN CURA, WILSOH) SAYS HE NET AN AMERICAN GANGST C

SANTOS WIIO COULD NOT RETURN TO THE U.S.A. BECAUSE TIRE WERE SEVERAL

INDICINENTS OUTSIAHDING AGAINST HIM. INSTEAD IN PREFERRED TO LIVE IN RELATIVE

LUXURY IN A CURAN PRISON. WILE SANPOS WAS IN PRISON

WILSON SAYS, SAITOS

WAS VISITED FPEQUENTLY BY AN AERICAN CANGSTER TYPE MIND RUBI. IS STORY IS

BEING FOLIOTED UP, [WILSON SAXS LE IAD ONCE TESTIFIND ABOUT CASTRO ACTIVITIES

SEFORE THE EASTLAND COMMITTEE OF THE U.S. SELATE, SOLTIME IN 1959 OR 1960.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUSTED ON 24 MAY 1978

END OF MESSAGE

Document Number.

206-83

_ INFDET CL BY 0/2208

• for FUiA Review on APR 1975

1: 200-5-41

85 GO?

201289248

F72%

by authority of

RICHARD HELMS

DDP

RELEASING.

OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CROUP 1

Excluded from aulematic

aguazragina and

SECRET

declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINS

OFFICER

Copy No.

DOIYYO

---

## Page 5

13-00000

NiT

ATE

?Did :

5022K-25

*FEN

0/15:9

• INDEX

5613

• NO INDEX

28 NOVFABER ISOBFILE IN CS FILE NO.

THILE HOUSE

ATIN: MR. MCCSORCE, BUNDY

DEPARIMENT OF STATE AFTN: MR. U. ALFXIS JOHNSON

FEDERAL, BUREAU OF IVESTIGATION

CENTRAL INTELLIGINCO AGENCY

ROUTING

2

3

2 8 Mos 63

16 58z

ONF: f/wint

ES COPYI

DEFER LE

ROUTINE®

• IMMINDIATE

INFO

CITE DIR

85657

ON 26 NOVEMBER 1963 A BRITISH JOURNATIST NAMETE

SOHN WILSON, AND ALSO KNOWNT

AS JOHN WILSON-HUDSON, GAVE INFORMATION TO THE AMERICAN EMBASSY IN LONDON_

WATER: EVOCAO TRATE AN "AMERICAY GANGSTER TYPE MANSOUSY" VISITED CURA

AROUND 1959. WILSON HIMSELE WAS WORKING IN CUBA AT THE TIME AND HAS JAILED BY

CASTRO BEFORE HE WAS DEPORIED.

IN PRISON IN CUBA, WILSON SAYS IE NET AN AMERICAN GENGSTER GEELER

SANTOS WIIO COULD HOT RETURN TO THE U.S.A. BECAUSE THERE WERE SEVORAL

INDICIVENTS OUTSIANDING AGAINST HIM. ISTEAD HE PREFERRED TO LIVE IN RELATIVE

LUXURY IT A CUBAN PRISON. WITLE SANTOS WAS IN PRISOM, HILDIT SAYS, SANTOS

HAS VISITED FREQUENTLY BY AN AMERICAN GANGSTER TYPE NAMED RUBY.' IS STORY IS

BEING FOLIONED UP. WILSON SAYS IE HAD ONCE TESTIFIED ABOUT CASTRO ACLIVILIES

BEWORE TIE EASTLAND COMMETTIE OF THE U.S. SENATE, SOLETIME IN 1959 OR 1960.

END OF MESSAGE

Document Number

206-83

for FOiA Review on

APR 1976

B3 0021

20122248

by suchortty of

RICHARD HELMS

RELEASING.

OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CROUP 1

273t5

Excluded trog automatic

downgra ding aride

ie.t87

FUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING. OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SEGRET

ROUTING

/4!

151

: DIRECTOR

IN • LONDON

3

nicantas +4+4210-999005

YCORDS-OrTICER STARE

i. tolloing astion is

authoreei: DE SENSITIZE

SECP ET 271731Z

DIR: INFO HELS

Signod:

3.0. 11 - BACI/RISA

(2710: 83 M69 100

Note:

11 destra

cite

reasons and codrainate

I appropriate

REF DIR 85133%

PO TRACE.

OSTALININA GUAT SPECIALERANCH OFFHE

CRIMINA REGARDiS DEFICE.

HOWEVER OURSE TEX SHOTS THAT OSUALD

APRIVED IN SOUTHAMPION 9 OCT 59 CLAIMING ILL BLS LANDING EARD ME

HAD NO FIXED ADDRESS BUT FLANNED REMAIN U. K. ONE WEEK FOR VACATION

BEFORE COINE ON TO SOME SCHOO, IN SUISSE".. YOWEVER, HE LEFT LOND

INdICATION

NEXT DAY 19 OCI BY AIR FOR HELSINKI.: THERE NO REBORE ON RETURN

FROM USSR TO U. S. HE PASSED THROUGH U. K. HOWEVER NUVINE

TIL I TRANSLI ANTINOT NECESSAR YELL QUILAND INE CARD ANDE

THEREFORE TRAFFIE EXHOULD NOT HAKE RECEDES

2. 26 NOV A BRIT SUBJ CLAIMING BE FREE LANCE JOURNALIST

RESIDING CHILE ROUGHLY LAST TWENTY YEARS NAMED

-JOHN WILSON AKA

for FOlA Roview on

APR 1976

Documont Number

W IL SON- HUDSON VISITED EMB TO TELL FOLLOWING.

SAID HE WAS IN CUBA

DURING 57-59 WORKING IN SOME CAPACITY FOR BATISTA AND WAS SUBSEQUENILY

DEPORTED BY SASTRO AFTER IMPRISONMENT FOR A TINE. HOWEVER, @at 4+8

CLAIMS HE KNEW A GAMELING GANGSTER TYPE NAMED

SANTOS WHO WAS IN

SAME PRISON WITH HIM AFTER CASTRO CAME TO PONER.

SANSS WAS

27 N0u63

CS 00PV1

Ceour T

SECRET

REPRODIIATION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING DEFICE IS DONHIRITER

Canoe Ala

D 01441

---

## Page 8

13-00000

1 ELASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 69220

_ PAGE 2

A'ERICAN BUT COULD NOT RETURN U. GO. DUE SEVERAL FEDERAL INDICT-

VENTS OUT STANDING AGAINSI HIM. SANTOS OPTED THEREFORE REMAIN IN

FRISON FOR PERIOD OF TIME PAYING CASTRO IN DOLLARS FOR HIS RATHER

LUXURIOUS AND DEFINITELY NON-PRISON LIKE ACCOMMODATIONS. DURING

THIS TIE HS VAS, ACCORDING TO WILSON-HUDSON, VISITED FREQUENTLY

EY AVILER AMERICAN CANESTEP TYPE NAMER

PRUBY. WIL SON- HUE SON

CLAINS HE COULD IDENTIFY RUSY FROM CLEAR PICTURE. ALSO CLAIMS

TO HAVÉ TESTIFIED BEFCRE THE EASTLAND SENATE COMMIITEE DURING

ITS LEAPINES IN 59 UR 6B ON CASTRO ACTIVITIES. STATION CHOKING

I SON SOLITICS AN SUSH.

REQUEST AIY H&S TRACES AND

COTMENT S.

• 3.

COSTMY PIRSUING MUCH SAME LINES AS STATION ON THEIR HAS

REQUESTS. WE CHECKING TOGETHER PREVENI DUPLICATION BUTSEASON

VIL HANDLE TRACES RINCIPALLYIINISHIHO JAGUAR WILL ADERESS

REMIES TA DUR CAFE BOIH TO STATION AND DENLY. HAVE ASKED SMOLH

FOLL UR ANY LEADS ON PRIT SUBJECTS ABROAD RELATING INARQUEAS

APPO DEP IATE ANTHEY HAVE"HER LEBAN ULES

SWEEPT ET

SIS COMMENT: *ILSSEMINATION APPLICABLE-TO*RYBAR 6PFLOOR*CABLES.

---

## Page 9

13-00000

LENNUILD GOOD

: DIRECTOR

2

3

ROUTING

141

/ 51

¡61

6. 4

12M.

2.71731Z

DIR: INFO/

27 No 63 N 69 1 00

PEF DIR 85133

1.

HOWEVER, SOURCE INFO

SHOWS THAT OSWALD

ARRIVED IN SOUTHAMPTON 9 OCT 59 CLAIMING/

HE

HAD NO FIXED ADDRESS BUT FLANNED REMAIN U. K. ONE WEEK FOR VACATION

SEFCRE COING ON TO "SOME SCHOCK IN SUISSE". HOWEVER, HE LEFT LOND

NEXI DAY 10 CCT BY AIR FOR HELSINKI. THERE NO INDCATION ON RETURN

FPOM USSR TO U.S. HE PASSED THROUGH U. K.

for FOlA Review on

APR 1976

Document Number

2.. 26 NOV A SRII SUBJ CLAIMING BE FREE LANCE JOUPNAL IST

RESIDING CHILE ROUCHLY LASI TWENTY YEARS NAME

-JOHN WILSON AKA

SAID HE WAS IN CUBA

WIL SON- HUDSON VISITED EMB TO TELL. FOLLOWING.

DURING 57-59 WORKING IN SOME CAPACITY FOR BATISTA AND WAS SUBSEQUENTLY

DEPORTED BY CASTRO AFTER IMPRISONVENT FOR A TIME. HOWEVER,

CLAIMS HE KNEW A GAMBLING GANGSTER TYPE NAMEDA

SANTOS- WHO WAS IN

SAME FRISON WITH HIM AFTER CASTRO CAME TO POWER.

SANTOS WAS 27 N0U63

IS GOPY!

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING DEFICE IS PROHIRITEN

a man No

---

## Page 10

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 69100

PAGE 2

A'BRICAN PUT COULD NOT RETURN U. &. DUE SEVERAL FEDERAL INDICI-

FENTS OUE STANDING AGAINST HIM. SANTOS OPTED THEREFORE REMAIN IN

PRISON FOR PERIOD OF TIME PAYING CASTRO IN DOLLARS FOR HIS RATHER

LUXURIOUS AND DEFINITELY NON-PRISON LIKE ACCOMMODATIONS. DURING

THIS TIFE HE NAS, ACCORDING TO WILSON-HUDSON, VIDITED FREQUENTLY

BY ANONS® ANEPICAN CANCSTER TYPE NAMER

BRUBY. WIL SON- HULSON

CLAIMS HE COULD IDENTIFY RUBY FROM CLEAR PICTURE. ALSO CLAIMS

TO HAVE TESTIFIED BEFORE THE EASTLAND SENATE COMMITTEE DURING

IT'S HEAPINGS IN 59 OR EE ON CASTRO ACTIVITIES,

REQUEST ANY HOS TRACES AND

COMMENTS.

3.

"FBI | PURSUING MUCH SAME LINES AS STATION ON THEIR HAS

REQUEST S.

WE CHECKING TOGETHER PREVENT DUPLICATION/

SOMMENT:/

res froza a statiors

0- Lee Pest Orale

1:

7

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SEGREF

ROUTING

5!

2

3

: DIRECTOR

2 • ZONDON

SE CP ET 271731Z

DIR: INFO THI

STEND 6027

RECORDS OFFICER STAMF

i. "falloting astion

authored: DE SENSiTIZE

Signod:

Kote:

гісто

SCREA (2710183M69100

If destru

cite

reasons and coordinate

I appropriate.

REF DIR 85133%

1. TO PRACIS DIE

SOURCE

INFORMATION

CRIMINA REGARDS OFEICE.

HOWEVER

RAPPIG INDEX SHOUS THAT OSWALD

APRIVED IN SOUTHAMPTON 9 OCT 59 CLAIMING IN HES LANDING GARD HE

HAD NO FIXED ADDRESS BUT FLANNED REMAIN U. K. ONE WEEK FOR VACATION

BEFORE COING ON TO "SOME SCHOOL IN SUISSE".. YOWEVER, HE LEFT LOND

INdICATION

NEXT DAY 10 OCT BY AIR FOR HELSINKI.. THERE NO REBORE ON RETURN

FR.CA USSR

TO U. So HE PASSED THROUGH U. KO HOWEVER HOVING

for FOlA Review on

Document Numbor

THREES TRAFFIED EXHOULD NOT HAKE RECORDER

2. ' 26 NOV A SRIT SUBJ CLAIMING BE FREE LANCE JOUPNAL IST

RESIDING CHILE ROUGHLY LAST TWENTY YEARS NAME JOHN WILSON AXA

APR 1976

WIL SON- HUDSCN VISITED EMB TO TELL FOLLOWING

SAID HE WAS IN CUBA

150-57

DURING 57-59 WORKING IN SOME CAPACITY FOR BATISTA AND WAS SUBSEQUENTLY

DEPORTED BY CASTRO AFTER IMPRISONMENT FOR A TIVE. HOMEVER 48

CLAIMS HE KNEW A CAMELING GANGSTER TYPE NAMEDI

SANTOS. WHO WAS IN

SAME FRISON WITH HIM AFTER CASTRO CAME TO PONER.

SANTOS WAS

27N0063

+ 70959541

CS G09X

CROUP

SECRET

REPRODUCTION RY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING DEFICE IS DOAHIRITEN

Canto

Ain

---

## Page 12

13-00000

RED MESSAGE "

SEGRET

IN 69100

_ PAGE 2

A"ERICAN EUT COULD NOT RETURN U. SO DUE SEVERAL FEDERAL INDICI-

VENTS DUE STANDING AGAINST HIM. SANTOS OPTED THEREFORE REMAIN IN

FRICON FOR PERIOD OF TIME PAYING CASTRO IN DOLLARS FOR HIS RATHER

LUXURIOUS AND DEFINITELY NON- FRISON LIKE ACCOMMODATIONS. DURING

THIS TIE HE VAS, ACCORDING TO WILSON-HUDSON, VISITED FREQUENILY

BY ANOTHER AMERICAN GANGSTER. TYPE NAMER

BRUBY. WILSON- HUDSON

CLAINS HE COULD IDENTIFY RUSY FROM CLEAR PICTURE. ALSO CLAIMS

TO HAVE TESTIFIED BEFCRE THE EASTLAND SENATE COMMITTEE DURING

ITS HEAPINES IN 59 OR 6E ON CASTRO ACTIVITIES. SIATION CHOKING

REQUEST ANY HOS TRACES AND

COMMENT S.

- 3.

CaDILY PURSUING MUCH SAME LINES AS STATION ON THEIR 'HAS

REQUESTS. WE CHECKING TOGETHER PREVENT DUPLICATION SUT STATION

VILL HANDLE TRACES PRINCIPALLIH SHOT IHO JAGUAR WILL ADDRESS

REMIES IN DURESCAFE BOTH TOSTAT ON AND DENY. HAVE ASKED SMOIN

FALLOU UR ANY LEADSON PRIT SURUEGI,SARDAR RELATINE-EQUALQUEAS

APPIDER IATE AND THEY FAVE HER LEDALEY

SUEERTET

ENS COMMENT: #DUSSEMINATION APPLICABLE-TO*RYBAT GPFLOOR-CABLES.

Isa Margey Oswale

1:

---

## Page 13

13-00000

---

## Page 14

13-00000

SECRET

ROUTING

5

2

3

SIRECTOR

FROM A LONDON

ACTION, GAMICOREISSUEBTOGIST AND THAT: +545-29-10463)

sEr#47598 2916337

DIR CITE JONDANERS

РАЗАРХЕРА

29 My S3187 021 1

ALTHO STARBON TRACING JOHN WILSCH AXA WILSON HUDSON WITH.

2F51

M5HAR, BELIEVE UN FIRST RETURNS FROM ODENLY CHECK HE LIKELY

EE PSYCHOPATHO STAFPON GATHERS HE GAVE THIS IMPRISSION UNEN

TESTIFYINS BEFORE EASTLAND COMMITTLE IN 590 VE ARE THEREFORE

NOT DURSUINO FATHER EXCEPTOTHRU JAGUAR FOR ANY INFO THEY HATE

5579R}

Document Number

233-94

for FOlA Review or APR 1975

/ COHHENTS #DASSEMINAILONGAPPLICABLE TO HYBA? GPFLOOR DYVOUR GABLESS

**Wilson claimed he knew "Ruby" while in Cuba 1957-59, and could identiy

Ruby from a clear picture.

authorIed LE SENSITIZE

siega: 2)

Hart

RO 11A

Note: If destruction cite

reasons and coordiate

1I appropriato,

REPAODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUE OFFICE IS PROHITED

---

## Page 15

13-00000

---

## Page 16

13-00000

12 DEC 1963

Soderal Jureau of investigation

etoniton:

:

Deputy director, Plans

:

TILSON, Cazlos John

faka

WILSON, Joan Ludson)

DOB:

29 DeCember 1916

PO2:

liverpool, England

Reference:

OUT 85657, 28 November 1963

A usually reliable source, those information was

evaluated as "possibly true", reported on 8 Augast 1951 the

following information concerning one Carl Jona WILSON Budson.

WILSON, a Spaniah citizen of Eritish descent

rosiding ia Chile, was a contact of one Bert SUCHAROV,

a suspected Soviet agent, in Sastiago, Chila.

It had been ascertained that WILSON had

arrived in Chile on 23 January 1939 from Buenos AlIES,

bearing spanish passport No. 7, issuel in Buenoy Aires

January 1939 and visaad (jourist) by the Chilean

Coasul in that city on 25 January 1939. He held

Chilean carnet 1.324.595 (Santiago) and resided at

Callo Arturo Media

4207, Santiago.

c.

Further background data revealed that WILSOY

was born in Liverpool,

England, on 29 December 1916.

In July 1936 he had left his studles at Oxford Univer

sity in England to enlist as a volunteer in the Spanisi

Loyalist forces, whereupon la acquired his Spaniah

citizenshiy.

do

Subsequent to his arrival In Chile, WILSON 1n

his capacity as a jarnalist had opened a premaan crusade

against the Eritish Government, in violation of restric-

tions placed on such activities by foreigners in Chile.

he had been, in addition, masquerading under various

nonexistont titlos as a result oi vice the Chilean

Government on 16 Jay 1939, at the request of the fritisa

Document Numbor

385-736

is capy falcon in

HAY 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW 0P - 2-81.

for FOlA Review, 017

20 MAY 1976

CONDUCTED ON_

E IMPDET CL BYS/2.208

S210G1

Copy file

D01443

---

## Page 17

13-00000

2

Babassy, issued a decree (No. 2014) ordering his

InpuiSiOn tIon chile: Later,

however, tra docree w3s

rescinded as a result of PILoOM's pleas, ais state oi

hoaltu and als promise to diacontime sis miscepresenta-

tion and other illegal sctivitles.

In spite oi his promises, iiion ind continued

These activicles, nubering anony others an li

Fascisi campaiga waich he had associated with a "uni

yorsal Peace loyement" to be brought suoui by the

clinination of all leading world powers.

had frequently posed as a British rAi captain and had

worn the corresponding uaiform.

The strange mannerisns exhibited by sIlioN

vere attributed to a mental 1ilness, and ollowing

WILSON's second outburst, the British Ambassadar pre

sented another request for his espulsion.

Agsia,

however, following various explanations by WiLSON

the British Embassy and on the reneral oì his promise

to reirain fron further activittes of a similar sature,

the casa was cropped.

On ? October 1952, a usually reliadle source, whosa

intornation was evaluated as "possibly true," subnitted the

{ollowing report concerning one Carlos John

VILION, WhO 15

identifiable with the Carl John TILSON Sudson in paragraph

1 aboye.

WILSON stated that he had arrized in santiago

in 1947 and ind worked on a special mission for the

British Coverrment in Germany, Egypt, and Iurkey at

the close or World Har II.... Le stated that he bad

fought with the Spanish Republican forces against Fraaco.

de was violently anti-united States and constantly

condemned United States policy. WILSON was of the

opinion that England und France would eventually join

rita the USSR to Lor & pact aimed at the completo

destruction of the United states. He clained to be an

sucharity on the jalkans, and fas a strong supporter

of tito.

rito, mIsoN statod, would eventualiy line uy

the entiza Balkan area with inglaud and sance to assist

Russia in crushing the United States.

b..

WILSON was extranely interested in the

---

## Page 18

13-00000

3

lugoslav colony in Santiago.

Ke attended i lcige cele

bration givon by the Serbian Ortaodox incloty at the

Club Ruso in Santlago.

On this occaalou be dad bacone

intoxicated and nade

bitter sonaris agaiist the J...

While be was intoxicated he made contidential retricg

indicating that he wes a bomber of in intelllgence

serVice.

WILSON had an office on Calle Aguscinas 1113,

which bore the following designation: "CInCRS, Commercial

Inforation." WILSON's business consisted of trade i2

copper,

lead, and sulpour.

te stated that he sas

Involved in a secret "deal" in Antoiagasta, Chile, la

which be planned to ship 15,000 tons of sulphur to

Balland.

d.

WILSON as 1n contact with a man identified

as Heriberto Springwaller EINICKS,

aiso desciived as

bitterly antl-u.s.

ELICKS was believed to have

studied in the U.S. between 1322 and 1930. He had

Intor becone a colonel in the Nicaraguan limy but had

been expelled fron the country. It was reported that as

spent sono time in tolivis and was closely lvolved

with WIlsoN in his so called cormercial dealiago.

€.

WILSON was descrlbed as being very intelligent,

astute, and well inforned on current events.

Fe 7a5

entremely sociable, irlendly, a very seavy crinter, ind

a tree spender. lis physical description was as follows:

color at

Apparent age: 38 years old (born circa 1914)

Medium

color of hair: Erown

color of eyes: Blue green

face:

long, largo nose; snall, slightly pIo

truding ears; ruddy complexion; small

mustache; wears glasses

docunentation:

Vl Press Pass io. 287, issued

in santiago.

Pass from the

International Police Section

of the Chilean Investigation

Service authorizing him to enter

Jos Cerrillos alrport in Santiago

at say time.

SOURCE CONCENT:

Source was of the opinion that WILSON vas

very probably an intelligence agent, since there was no

aprarent reason for his great interest in the lugoslay colony

CEG263

---

## Page 19

13-00000

in Bastiago and since his largo incone vas ci questionable

3.

¿ anally raliabla source reportod 18 June 1029

that Cal Sohn VIlmor,

sritish jourcalist, seni

a cable do

the British arliament nad to tae britisà

Iraja Union Foz.

peation sayias that ha nad confirmed tiat the U.3. Mllitzry

attaches in the Caribbean were giving military advice to

dictators.

Te protostad in tha name of lunanity, saying

that patriots were fighting for thelr sacred rights to la tree

citizers and that American volunteers were helplag the dic

tators with the approval of Hashingion.

Source contented that

"asOn was planning on accompanying vario Chairo, nicaragua

revOLutionIy Uno was readjing an expedliion agalist

Mcaragua from Cuba.

Mother report dated 26 June 1959 iron 2 usually

rellable source stated that Paul aucras, an American soldier

of fortune, clained to have at his disposal three aircrait,

including one boaber, and planned to launca an attach on

Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua, during the veckend of 27-28 Juse

Bughes said that Carl WILSON, 2 Sritish jourcallst,

and about 65 volunteers would join bla in the aitack.

Source

commented that lucies also vaguely spose of possibly bonbing

Managua for the psychological eiiect.

KILSON said that

Castro had no knowledge of HuGs' plans.

United Fross International carried tha story date

I1ned 1 July 1359 fron navan, Cuba,

saying that pollce had

raidad a privata boma in suburkan Bilinora the day belore

and seized a large quantity of arms and arrested three.

Americans and a Briton.

The Anericans were ddentified as

Paul HUGuSs, an officer in Castzo's rabel arny; Efren ?.

PICIANDO, Of Miami, Florida; and Josepa BARDOR, of LOS

Angeles,

WILSON.

California.

The Exiton was listed as Carl john

5.

Tha U.S. Aruy Attache in Havana, Cuba, reported

30 July 1959 that

he had received the following note from

Carl JObA WILSON:

"Salvador ALLENDE, (Comunist-spousored presidential

candidate in 1958 and Socialist Party mender, brought a

letier of definite instructions to Raul Castro (from

Chile.) This letter. contains instructions from the

Kremlin in Moscon znd contains the signature of Pablo

Neruda of Chile.

It deals with reiinite instructions

of anti-Anerican agitation to connence nest nonth in

Chile, Peru, Eolivia, Cuba, Costa Rica, etc. Raul

---

## Page 20

13-00000

CastID 15

now under instructions si salvador us

of Chile."

Source, Carl John WILSON, was described as a ?ritisa subject

and free lance newspapermad, woo was arrested with al

nudies and who had been in jail ever since.

"ILOON reportealy

wanted to talk to someone.

U.S. Army attacie stoned the note

to the British Chargo who

agreed to send the Consul to tali

¿o MILiON and advise U.S. Army Attache if WILSON had anything

the contents of the

note.

Nothing further tas

Associated Press datelined 6 July 1959, Havane,

carried story about WILsoN who said he had begun a seven

day hunger strike to protest his arrest and had to be fed

intravenously at Cuba's National Police Hospital. Although

police dented WILSON was on a hunger strike, a hospital

intern sald that he vas suifering fron physical estaustion

brought on by his refusal to eat.

According to a 1s July

1959 Havana press report,

WILSON's wils, a Chilean naxed

Ellana Bronfnan, said WILSON had recoived a las degree fros

Oxord Unlversity and had fought in the International Brigade

during the Spanish Civil lar.

On 18 August 1959 WILSON valked into U.S. Consulate

Kingston, Jamaics, and said he vas a Journalist who had just

bren released aiter be days detention in Fabana prison.

volunteered information acout Cuba and Comunist activity in

Latin baerica.

On 21 August 1959 the U.S. Consulate in

Kingston issued WILSON a single entry sontamigraat visa.

he was carrying british passport 147356 Issued in livanx

14 August in the name of John YILSON. He was attempting to

get air passage to illani in order to sell his story to the

Mani lerald and then to obtain a new visa fror Chilean

consulate to return kone (Ux or Chile not specified but

apparently he returned to UN,)

U.S. State Departnent cable fron Asuscios, Paraguay,

reported 16 Deceaber 1959 that John WILSON, correspondent

for North American News Service, had Inforned the Paraguayan

Ambassador in London on 14 December that within tro days a

cargo or 300 machine guas and 800 rifles were to be shipped

to Buenos Aires, Argentina, at the direction of Castro.

WILSON reportedly showed docuents which proved his statchent

---

## Page 21

13-00000

and requested remittance for passage to isuacion to inform

fully on the shignent without pay.

C2C7 3/779,048

CWH/3/Whitten:jz

Distribution:

C&l ~ addressee

1 - RI

1 - CILIA

CI/ICG

WE/Walsh

WH/3/MMM

CHH/ 3

DATE: = Dacember 1963

PROJECT:

None

Coord:

WE Division/Walsh

×6660

---

## Page 22

13-00000

---

## Page 23

13-00000

146-55603

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INTESCIGATION

!

In Repl, I'lease Refer lo

File No.

WASUIYCTON 25, D. C.

BY LIAISON

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIONTO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELBASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL PASSED TO

NARA

Date:

To:

January 7, 1954

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

FrOm:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subject:. JACK I. RUBY

LET HARVEY OSWALD - VICTIN

CIVIL RIGHTS

Ex. Carlos Villa, 1450 Coral Way, Hiani, Florida,

furnished to the FBI on December 21, 1963, a letter which

had been forwarded to a friend of his named Jose Antonio

Juan. Hit. Juan had received the letter from his son living

in Cuba.

In the letter received by dr. Juan from his son

the statement was made, "it is known here that subinstein

was here a little leas

than a year ago visiting a hir. Pransisi,

owner of a shop dealing in tourist articles, located on

Prado Street between Animas and Trocadero, opposite the

Sevilla Biltmore."

The reference to Rubinstein appears to

refer to Jack l.

Raby who is presently in custody, Dallas,

Texas, on charges of shooting Lee Harvey Oswald.

For your information this Bureau's investigation

concerning Jack I. Ruby has developed no inforation that

Ruby has ever been in Cuba except on one occasion in 1959

when he visited there briefly on a vacation trip. Fuby

himself readily admits to this trip but bas denied any other

trips to Cuba or contacts with persons there.

It is requested that, through available sources of

your Agency, you develop any information possible relating

to the above-quoted statement in an effort to resolve the

allegation that Jack L. Fuby has possibly visited Cuba since

1959 and has connections there.

DO14H

261-742862

---

## Page 24

13.00000

•-------

......

---

## Page 25

13-00000

30 JAN 1964

1xJ0COR

attontions iro do de

152102

wick to dust

Ice Lammy Usin - Totin

civil nighta

haterence is made to your manorance of ? Janety leCi,

subject, as acove, concerniny a report of a visit to Cuba 12 carly

1953 rade by Jack in 115%, assassin of les darmy Jali, Inis

Agoncy has recolves a sinilar report iron a sourne to tre oilect

that Mir as in lavaca la lata 1962 or in early 1953. according

to sils unconcired report full vas "a irlord and custoner of a

(Cuban) citizen naned FRAshIN, omer and ranager of a zovelty shop

fos tourists locates (in Hayana) betasen Arinaa and Trocadero,

¿aseo dul Frado, in front of lice Hotel Sevilla," fur source atated

that te calloving Individual could miy the above internation.

LUdio Bernardo PILIA ACOsta

LOBs 12 Marco 1927, Cral, Carrilo, Las Villas, Cuba

rerber of ialgado 2506

Jur latest Intomation conceming tie whercabouis of i ruind Acosta

indicatas his adaresa as of Septasbar 1953 7299

321 Si 2ad Stroet,

Piani, Florida

2.

Acosta.

He suggest that your tureau may prefer to intandar PiRalu

Jir flies contain no information on anyone icontifiablo tit

Wa would appreciate rocaiting the remits of your inierrlew

of Pualia acosta, jour sureau will be adrisad la the event to rocoita

further information relating to this natter.

POL TIE ESPUTY DIEUCIUR FOR PLAS:

• Janes Angleton

656I-3/773,1812

DO144S

---

## Page 26

13-00000

0415-3/773,314

01/5I0/Coregoryeas

30 Jamary 1954

riscriburdor:

Cri-a

?i 1 - Adriresses

2 - 0/01

• iH/3/1r. whitten

SR/CI/Mr. Migren

- CI/REA/Fir, Rocca

- CI/LIA (cumny)

•CI/Ri (dumny)

V2 - cI/SIe

(Sensitive Nenos

201-742 862)

2

---

