# 104-10173-10134

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10173-10134

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

WAS 10M6G GORMAL OX A5SA6615A11006 STAFF 0. 114.15

- 201-

18K4L

INCLUSIVI:

PATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROON: -

DELETIONS, IF AVY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

TAT:

PICEIVED

RETURNED

10: 41

(INT MATE

BETSY WiRE

STANATURE OT

REVIEKING OFFICIA.

Betay Help

NO NUCUMENTS MAY ME COPED ON REMOVED

FROT THIS FILI.

LE

MATERIAL FILED IN THIS FOLDE

IS IN CHRONOLOGICAL ORDE

201 No. 184416

---

## Page 2

1400000

1 TaniaRy 1915

(date)

Revieu of 201 file on U.S: Clolzen

In accordance with che DDO's nocice of 9 December 1974.

I have revlewed the 201 file on

(201 number indicated below).

(surname)

• most accurately be categoriied as indicated below:

determined that 1c can

should be closed

witting collaborator.

• 01 Code Al.

potentlal witting collaborator;

date opened

0I Code: A2.

former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).

OI. Code A3.

potential witting collaborator never

reasons, derogatory Information).

contacted (security

oI Code A4.

counterintelligence case fi.e.,

intelligence or security service)

Involving a

foreigu

01 Code AS.

all others: 01 Code A6.

Stened Back Boom'

(component)

This assignment öf category has been entered into STAR.

Signed

KAm

241078

197-

This document

1 g

(initia)s).

(date)

a permanent part of this file.

:-0-N-hen SECRET."

J- 1= A-1

201-

18416

E 2

CL

IMPDET

BY

0549 70

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

4 October 1974

11192-35686

MEYOKANDUM FOR THE RECORD

sUsJECT: former Records of Ray Nurphy

i. The attached documents are part of a large

collection of records held by Ray. Murphy during his

tenure as an official of the Department of State.

He transferred all of his records

retirement in the nid-1960's.

The documents of that

collection which did'not meet the retention criteria

of the DDO or the Office of Security vere destroyed.

While those which were of utility have been rotained

and accessioned as appropriate to the DDO records

systen.

The attached records concern

Harold ISAACS

Who is the subject of 201-0018446

be classified to that file

and should

Mr. Jail Hartman

M.

Paul Hartm

C/CIRA/RS

Attachment

18,10

CERT

RECOND COPY

SECRET

4. Qct74

201-18446

E2. IMPDET

CL BY

006593

---

## Page 4

14-00000

cony:

"OURCE:

colober 22, 1938 - rage lê

JASPE'S CHISTO: JAPAN PROCABAS

By lanau Chan

•... There are nunerous saertoon jouraaliate of

aisserent pol1ti00l color and shades of opinion thu pre

whoover has tollored the aritingo of liarold Iscaon,

Aloxander ruchnan, Preak Sloas and illbur durion In The

• Chine I'resa, The China rookly forlon, nola, Peolflo Affelro,

row Intornational, ota., realloo that those ineriona

crotoxylot journalists are tho most vielous and rose das-

gorous of the shole lot of resocionory journallate.

i1a1ne behind a barrago of Marzlat parasoology lublon

noug of then has yet learnod to maipulate with reollity),

those people are energetioally conduosing o campolga of

1100 againas the consulat International, the Chineso

comnunist forty, the joriot. Unlon, the chinese jovlota

and the Chladde i0d tray, a gaspalga unlon alas to under-

mine tho coafidende of the outaido norld in tha Chinese

soviet novenent and the lied truy.

RECORD COPY

Harle tannes

# 61=18.446

H/WATTGi TO XAAZ-35686

501-151446

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SUR CORRISI ACFTVINIES FILES

aso. Get 23:1957.

SOURCEs

DAILY WORKER

Filo. No.

19100 Posse

x 4202 China

TROTZKYITE BOOK MOURNS

OVER CHINESE REVOLUTION:

THE TRAGEDY OF THE CIll-of devious Trotstvite polemics,

NESE

REVOLUTION:

Holluars bork. has

been reissrech.

Haruld D. Issars, Stanfun Uni- pirtly to cash in on the hate-China

versity Press, 352 ppi 55

rachel. and partly

because

any

By ROBERT FRIEDMAN

stick is usefu

1o Big Business

The

against

the liberation ..bound

anti-Chipese boars she des at

let's at

maSSes.

a pace which bils to match the loves Truisks,

Isaars now says he no longer

anti-Soriet parcal

All the old

whose introduction;

has been dropped as a liability. In-:

China hands' who seried. Wester stead he is an open defender of

inperialism as hanker, soldier, spy, liniperialist intervention against the

or whatever in the Orient ore tow

people

et the far East.

busy at the tinewnter,

engaged

Bust

in

profitable riification. d

typical of his Trotskyite:

000,000 penple beause they

450,- weaseling is Isaars altack.on the

¡Chinese Communists of the 1920's,

citler - to

take their fate in

own hands and build for them-

their Grst

because

they

supported

Chiang Nai-shek despite the lack

selyes.

that he was to becone the butcher

of the Chinese revolution, and sea

One book which deserves, eren nind because they allcyrally cringed

under the cinical and opportunist

seign

of capitalism, sone

before Chiang wheu he turned en

prize for adaptability is Hamk b.

the workers

1927.

Isaacs:

Tragedy.. of

tho Chinese

This nonsense, which trolld nile

Revolition

ut every political alliance in las

Published arst in 1938 as an tory, on the chance that loilay's

Trotuvite tract (com-fally might he toraorrow's encmy.

plete with intioduction by Trotsky)is ironic in view of the fact thard

calling the defeat of the Chinese Chiang sits tray on Taiwan, ¿a

worders in 1927 a "betrayal" by iscredite sungster sure only in!

Stalin and the Chinese Commu, the ejes of Isuacs politicil men-

wists, the seme book emerges noiv, fors

refurbished, to mourn the victory

Meanwhite, ¿the Chinese people!

if the very same Chinese workers will go abrat their husiness build:

fication blade o

a Cas we fragedy.

wncoscemed."by

stel with the murky intrice

197 or 1950 Mee

REtS

H/ ATTOR Ti XAA2-35756

261-15446

---

## Page 6

14-00000

COFY: MIX: S8

COM?.

EnoloGure No. 1

TO DeI

8Ob No. 531?

11/30/35

1 TA YONE YI PIng HUrURg

Felping, China.

.004.-5, 1934.

KEM

НІ.Ф. А. 819800

136 Claremont Avenue

Mount Vernon, N. Y.

Doar MI. Bisson:

I have goẹn the correspondence exchanged betueen

Mr. Olass and yourself regarding the contributions you

oollected for the China Forum.

A dialt for the sua in

full u1ll be gent to you thia

Feel.

I do not know in the name of whom or what Mlos snedloy

apoads of the China Forun.

81n0e she was not in China at

the time the Forum Sended, to a e core a

Hito me on the subjeot, I consider is necessary to place

before you and the other contributors an account of the

chrcumatanoes in malcb the Forun coaced publication.

sinoe you apparently gathered the contributors together

In a meeting to hear what bias Bedley had to say, I

would apprectate l't deeply 1f you would gather them once

-nors to hear my nocount.

the enclosed 18 a copy of &

lottor, sent by no last Hay to the Chineso Communist Party.

It has been publlebed in China in a Chinese translation

and coples have boen sent abroad but has not been pub

11anod 1n English as far as-I know.

I do not know the

names of the people who were good enough to contributo

to the Forum but thelr Interest

.1n the mattor varrante

plaoing belore them the atory of what happoned to the

nagasine.

I trust,

out of simple Lalrness

to me, yOu

will be good enough to gite then this opportunity..

"I greatly regret any inconvenience or embarragsment

to which you have been put ln this matter.. I do hope,

however, that my letter will enlighten you and your

frlands

and enable you to appreolate the diffloulties

which have arisen...

I know of'no projeot to rovive the

China Forum at the, present time.

should auch ocour

she

rasultant publication would be of a considerably differant

onaracter from the one I editad,

a8 wIll be obvious Iron

the raota given in ay lotter to the c. P. I think people.

who are interested in supporting the revolutionary novo:

ment here should know these faots:

Once again, I appreciate all the trouble you have

gone to in thle

matter.

redeive the artiole

81150341 Eunice

Seat

dilight

Rub. Ce 58

July 13 last?

Yours sincerely,

(Harold R. Isaace)

8n01.

(Copled by FD)

11/a

+447-35654

261-i846

---

## Page 7

14-00000

COPY

104S40 C3149F9748

To the Central Committee of the Chinese Communias Party:

The swa-year period of my extra-organizational col-

laboration uita the chinese Communiat Party bas come to

an end and the China Forus whloh I founded and edited duri

ing that time has been forced to suspend publication. In

the interest of our whole movement ad well as in my pos-

sonal interest; I conelder it necessary to record here

and pübliah the history of the Obina Forum and the oin

cumstances of its suspension.

You refuded. me the oppor

tunity to lay the mattor before the memberablo of the

party even when I offered to do so in your own organs and

not through the columns of the forum.

Koen, DIOngLY, I

pernitted

the forum to go down In sllence,

you turned

around and in your orgens and near organg

in China and

abroad you proceeded

pith the usual slanders of

"botrayer"

and "counter-revolutionary".

In so dolng you didn't aava

the courago of the simple honesty to state that you pre-

sented the China Forun with an ultlnatim and forded 188

suspenelon because in raply lts edltor ralsed questions

whiot are beink placed bofore the whole movement today

by the International

Left opposition.

Nor did you state

that you dolluerately snashed the forum for this reason

despite my repeated and extended offers to continue publi

catlon

as before on a spraight anti-kuomintang,

anti-

Imperlallas bagle,

thrashed

leaving tbase varlous problems to ba

out first privatoly

anong ourselves.

In othor.

morde; you deliberately forced suepension of

the Colna

Foruin

despite the fact.

on your own aumission,. that 1t8

Logg vag a Barious blor to the ravolutlonary movement 1n

China,

that 1t meant the disappearance of an organ uhion

los two years' you had considered an extremely valuable

instrument

1n the bands of the movement.

Here, aB In saa

broader liques which led to our differences, your blind

adderende

to false policies was once more demonetrativo

of your readiness so place your fáctional Interesta above

the interesta of the Chinese Revolution.

In golb baok over the history of the Forum, I think

the violous character of your action becones even more

evident then I start wish the laot that from beginning to

end I functioned not as a manbar of the party but as a

viliing sympathizer who was prepared to throw all hia

anerglaa into a job he san he could do edit and publlah

an organ in China thich could help mobilise tho foroes

of this opuntry for struggle ajalnet the ruomintang and

the imperialiats by exposing the regime of terror and

nilvation which they have in counon

Imposed upon the

nadeas of the Chinese people.

Peralt me to reoall at

thla polar that l never accapted any peraonal remunera-

sion for sinu or labor.

You

gave the Forun financlal

ald but I never received a dollar fron you that was not

put into the paper.

I refused your offere of compensa-

Your only clala on

no eRs my sull-hearted loyalty to the Communist idoal and

our

1.:=

-56:

, "fs.óse.i

---

## Page 8

14-00000

our cormon dediestion to she struggle pralnot a regino

of bate and misery and ourasalon.

In the end you for

to1tod.8h1a claim by ceasing any longer to do in my ayos

honest or offactiva laaders of thia strugglo.

you played in

building it up fron the day It started 10

January, 1832, to the day of its last appearance in Janu

ary 1934, was 1n81 gnisjadas.

My rapeated requests for

cooperation in mattora of circulation and material for

publication nent largely unsatisfied throughout that tlao.

You nover supplled no nith the reporte I so frequently

the Rod diatIlOto, ato.

svery

thing tho forum did and became was the frult of the nork

of a flny group of dovoted collaborators (the most 1m

portant of thou had no connection with you whatever) and

mysels who had to dapond almost entirely on our om re

souroes tor everything me did and publiabed. At every

cIlala In the Forum's exletenod, when lt was banned by

the french authorltlas in Shanchai at the very outset;

when lt was bounded and persecutéd by the Amerioan and

Chinese authoritles in the Buamar of 1933, won through

Brition pollo pressure it was thrown out of every avall

able printing ship in the city; uber the paoudo-Fascist

Blue

shirts again and again threatened the printing plant

which I bullt up partlally through personally contractod

loans

= 1t was invariably through my ou initiative, wita

the selp of the littla forum stall,

that we pulled

our-

salves up by the bootatrays avery timu ani carriod on to

a point in January this yoar there the forum vas flouriso

ing and groning daily in circulation, prostige,

and 1a-

fluenoe despito the many formidable

obstacles

1n. Its nay.

The formation of the China Forum Readers Assoolation

"hion in the brief space of three monthe spread to eleven

citles in Ilve provincas, developing Into e migaty poten

tlal reapon for the revolutionary movement, was the prod-

uot of spontaneous aotion on the part of the forum's

readers, later sponsored and led by the paper itsoll.

all thege vere the forum's own achievements,

not youra.

By your arbitrary and oriulnal action you suattarod then

in ino full stilde of thalI grosta.

Bedause to my bitter

disappolntment i bad not nor could I secure the resources

to oarry on mysels - oving largely to the disticult condi.l

to me and the leo till i dening evenue

fIom the paper, 1ia0lf - all that dad been

aobleted and

vas to be

aonlaved nas ground into the dust.

$I.

From almost the vory beglaning of my aotive nork -

which I dato from the timo I began reporting events in

China

ln a Communiat nay - a nuaber of questions presentod

themselves to me in inoreadingly forcible forn.

Phese

orlainally from my discovary of the gross diator-

Elons and araggorationa abion i sound to do characteriatio

of Communiat propaganda ln China and abroad.

I datino

propaganda as

¿rutbIul reporting of the

---

## Page 9

14-00000

purvoalro intorpretalion and a plan of Bosion for deal-

I learnad

•¿'o filia did asio and nurs of Lenin and his Dolahevik

comrados gho baugbt us-that the truth cones from the

mag608-thonselvea and that only dionater can rosult froa

selling them bles.

I Dave. never learned to the contrary

was my revolutionary duty to nork in any other

way although I soon found that the present day Communiet

Party pres8 makes a praotico of datingulabing between

propaganda and truts.

Examplea of exagguration and diatortion noot strik-

ing to no mere naturally those whiob applied to China,

bocause here I could check allegationg with known saote.

I firot urote those don tu the ignorance or Inoavacity

of Individuals. I felt that Communiat editors abroad

would publish aocurate faots about China if they could

get then.

Accordingly nith à irland I tried to set up.

an independent mall news servloe and sent weekly bulletins

so papers all over the world giving baler, sharp, taotual.

accounta of what was going on:

The was In the fall of

1931 after my return from. the

area of the giort Contral

China floods of that summer.

I soarcely understood then

why this sorvioo falled to

seoure any responsa from the

Communist press abroad.

After about three monthe I had

to suspend lt for lack of support.

It simply didn't

Communist Party papere, including the New York Militant.

"It waan't long

before I began to perceive,

with a

deeper atudy of international eventa and the history of

tho Chinese Revolution, that a consistent thread ran

through the distortions and exaggerationg uhloh I found

not only in brior casual reporte of current events but

in the solomn pronunolasentoes. made by delegates before

plenums of the F.0.0.1.I discovered that these departures

tron tho truth sero mado nacessary by the officlal premiae

that ever since the catastrophe of 1937 a mighty, upourg

ing revolutionary movement has been marching forward In

China

to the very brink of selzure of pover under the

leadership of the Chinese Communlat Party:

I diocovared

that these exaggeratlons norg necessary bedauge the prou

18a was false and along with 16 all the baBlo tenets of

the polloles being pursued by the Communiat International

and the Communiét Party in China. I cannot begin hero to

give a gunmary of sone of these distortiong (which i

verbally cited to you by the doren) ranging from partiou

lar incidents (the allfully faise picture given of the

cotton mill atrixe In Shanghai In January,

1938, oveR to

the point ef transposing it to February

to heighten the

lapression given of the vorkero' sole in the Bhanghal var)

to bigh flown guneralisations like tho statement redently

mado before the plenum of the s.C.C.I. that the C.C.i. has

von over the majority of the Chinese working class and

deprecate not a unli she sagnificent aillennoy and courago

Of Chlaase MOrtOrO, attiting again and again and ligatiag

againat

---

## Page 10

14-00000

agalnat torriflo oddo in dafondo of their very lived:

nos tha norolo abrusaloo maged by peasanto all over sho

oountry; nor the f1ght of the Red Armies againet the

they are laolated, desperate and unorganised.

with very

sow exceptiona - a feu anall strikes here and there and

the larges exodptlon of the had. Army - they are ultbout

organised revoluttonary leaderably.

MOrEOVAI the develop

ment of this loaderabip, the tagk of the c.p.; le proceed.

1ng at a tragloally retarded pace ouing to she false

policios and inept taotloa of the party.

In danydag tho presence of a mighty revolutionary

upsurge (1.0.,

a vaet, organised

march coward the Belgure

ої ромвт). І тавроот

lacta made still clearer perhaps aton

compared to the

and figures of the monster nass 20Ye

ments of the

1835-27 period.

Tha, tragio errore of tho

Communist loaderahip In 1837 vero primarily reaponsible

for

the decapitation of that great movement and beause

no lesBone have been

drawn from those evente to this very.

day,

these errore,

monstrously acoumulated; are still ro

eponalble for the

tragedies of today: But for the purpose

of our comparioon here, let us for exanplo take the single

faot that In 1936

in Greater Shanghal shere were 357

8tr1ke8.

In 1933

there were 82.

Let us remember that

on the eve of the vorkors' seigure of power in shanghal

In Maron,

192?; there vere more than 800,000 porkere,

handlorafteren

and

patty traders out on the atreets right.

1ng vith arme

in

handa for demande of a far-reaghing po

l1tloal oharacter.

A Close check for the entire country

In the latter half of 1933 showed no that Icas than one-

chlrtleth of that number were engaged in striked and other

disputes during any given month and that almoat invariably

the demande were defensive demands against mage oute and

lockouts.

Horeoveri the laok of cohesita leaderahip .

often in departmente of the same factory or in one or nore

of a group of laotorles - or even sometimes lack of even

the moat elementary organization - has in almost every

cae led to deadening failure and relalvely enoy betrayal

by the yellow

"Labor

lasders" and

"medlators? of the

Kuonintang.:: In 1935 the shooting of thiiteen students

by Britian polloe

in Shanybal une the touch-off for a

general atrito wilch paralysed the olty and whioh was

seconded by vast sympathy strikes which broke lite a

series of tidal waves over the entire country.

In Janu-

ату,

1932, when the Japanage imporlallats uned the Shanghai

International Settlement as a base for operationg shich

single stolze Interrupted the normal course of

the pub,

11c or other aurvices in that settlement.

In the factorlos

there nose no strides tut a large aoRle lockout to ublob

she overubalming majority of Shanghal's vorters submlitod

"Ithout protest.

The dogged, peralstent struggle oarried on by amall

BaOblOns Of the

rank

and file porkers in laolatad inatanoes

In recent yeara do tributo to the magaliicent fibro of

chinese

---

## Page 11

14-00000

-5

Obinese mortaro.

It is not evidence that a revolutionary

neizure Of pover la on the order of the day.

It 18 ev1-

none loaded liberty. an chinese revolutionary

along with the herolo saorifices of thousands who

struggla during the last seven years of Xuomintäng re-

notion, that 1t 18 D08e1ble to light the monstrous white

torror mhiob Chinese Communiata frecuently cite as a

ronson for the inaufflolenoy of their work.

Yet. 1t

{8

largely boonuse this terror has not been lought affactively

that the Kuonintang regime, desolte the faot thât 1t 18

rotting and orumbling, oan

at1ll keep the lid down on the

no must turn resolutely away from the folly of calling to

insurreotion

when what is reeded 1a painstaking education,

organization.and the aponaorship of day-to-day struggles

of the masses for damooratio demands, the slow bullding un

of a party and masa organizations and a rovenent whioh

→121 be nble to command. the forces capable of orrrying out

an InBUIIBOtIOn.

In the oase of the widespread but isolated and in-

dividual cases of peasant uprisings, and this. Inoludes

the Red Armles In K1angs1,

these struggles await the

leaderabip of a stróngesue.

working.

clads movement before they

The Rod Armles In their ro

strloted and aurrounded areas and with their meagre ra-

sources have. fought beroloally againet the Kuomintang

attaoks upon them. But until the kuomintang.

18 shaken

from its bulwarks in the Imperialist controlled working

olass. centres, their prospect of revolutionary triumph

remains necessarily dim.

No revolutionary purpose 1g

served by taking refuge in the flotion toat these armies

have proletarian leaderablo beause individual workers,

•undoubtedly leaders of superior quality and courage, have

been torn from their faotories and their fellow norkore

and

sent down to occupy key positions in the Red Army

dlatriots and in tho.Red Armles themselves.

Indeed

this

common praotice of extraoting the most consolous and pro-

gressive working olass elements from thelr sorking olasa

onvironnent and sending them down to the red diatriots 18

a good index to the oriminal transposition of endhaaig

whioh has helped paralyze the morking claus movement in

the 01t100.

If the

White Terror doesn't carry off the

so 1n hundreds of dases.

woTkers! leadero an they artee, elp ip does and has done

no small part to

sxolaln why 1t has

also been Impossible to mobilize&

genuine mass

tary

ant1-Japanese movement in the laot of u111-

aggression and why the white Terror of the Kuomin-

tang

bas suoceeded, by flling mabs gravee and innumer-

able prisons with

the martyred

dead and 117ing,

in down.

ing the antl-imperialiat movement of efforts toward the

organization of such a sovement and pavlog the pay lor

tho ever increasing enoroaohmeata of the imperiallato.

The party has not you gripped and directed the deap and

blator and often

Inartioulate batred of the sabaes of the

peonle for their opprescore and ibia inoludes large ae0

tlona of the lover

petty bourgeolute tho could be

von bY

BUCCABIN MA00

pressure fron below. Phia la beause the

---

## Page 12

4-00000

Party hao falled to translate the realltles of everyday

evente into lts program aud raorioa.

I cannot bere go into the many-faceted problems and

1soues which

Mon from these Inota with regard to the

polloles and tactlos of the Chinese revolutionary movements

Nor extending to the international scene need I go into

the.torrifio 011eots of the Cernan cataatropho nor the

stori

of questions

whioh has been direoted at the c.1.

leadershlo whose responalbility. In the disaster has be-

come nakedly clear to unnumbered Communista and Comnunlat

symoäthizers the warld over.

Not into the whole set of

Lupllontions mbich

arise fron the polloles of the 0:I.,

w1th nartioular reference to the late develonments in

soviet foreign polloy,

the bitvinov-roosevelt agreement,

the forthooming mooted entrance of the U.S.g.R.. Into the

League of Nations and in a sualler but equally oharaster

the forthooming asociation of the U.s.g.R.

1otlo may inetitute of paoirlo Relations shich hopes to

with the

nöld 1te next talkiest in Mosoo#.

These problemo, with

their many soeo1fio links to the Chinese questions, were

the baalo questions over whioh I soon began to take lagua

with the offlolal viens of the Party and the international.

III.

But preoisoly badause

"at all oosts I desired to onity

on the Forum's oven struggle againat the common

enemy

againet the Kuomintang. and the imperiallets - I sedulously

avolded bringing these lasues into the coluing of the paper,

Inoreasingly agalnst my better judgment.

I leaned over far

baokward in this reapect.

• Thio expressed ltsold in many

Os the ourrent legued with waloh we had to deal.

I ask you to recall the whole uhill fight whior the

Forum waged on behalf of. Paul and Gertrud Ruegg In the

epring and sunmer of 1933 during whiob time I jepeatedly

warnod agalnat the emobasis uhioh was being placed on the

"legal" aspeota of the case

and the "negotiations" with

the Kuomintang to the detriment of mass dressure and the

capitalization of the dase for politioal purposes.

You

pald liD servloe to the need for mass oreesure - partiou

Jarly bere in China'- but in fact the "legalities" and

futile negotlations remained the major pillars of tho de-

fense. Until in the very end I finally rebelled, I van't

oven permitted to give Rüegy his honoursble and rightful

t1t10 - seoretary of the Pan Paolfio Trade Unlon Seoro-

tarlat.

Yẻt,

although I folt the struggle for the ruegga

was being Barlously handloaded by the tactloa being pur-

sued,

I carriod on the fight with all the energy at my

oommand and you will recall that it man I who orented the

looal defense comnittee and Bas obiefly reavonsible for

the uldesorend preda propaganda and the conalderablo

sympathy which ve aroused.

Yot the arrictly non-polltloal

attitude Mhiab Ruegs was toroad to assume aù the tIlal

(1n contrast to the highly politioal

asiltude of 113

DrOBeOUtOIA) DAO

In sy obinion one of the major readone

808

---

## Page 13

14-00000

- 7-

sos the fate to uhiuh he and die ulle vere condamned.

tion

I ask you to rooall the mole period of the organteadl

and aotivitles of the Obina-Lougue for O1v1l Righto,

in thioh I took an

notive pest.

1ts work without onoe publishing the vasio orittoland

uhlch 1 often voiced to you and uhloh in the end vero

wholly confirmed by wbat happened after the Kuomintang

I aix you to reoall the theme

I Bet forth in luguet

and September, 1933, on the subjeot of the "anti-lar Oon-

Instead, to my ragtet, I vublishet the foul rot of kar

which at your speolfio request I did not publieh.

the pollales which gave it birth do not. one

single whit

advance the international etrugele ageinat imperiallet

war.

On one occasion - and thie at loast I can take don-

ord in= I pabalvely rebisted when you renuested me t

vIlta and dublish a slanderous attaor on chen-rucholi

when he was condemned to. 13 years imorisonment by the

Kuomintang.

Your remest was speolfic.

I vas not to

deal with

the lesues whioh had brought Chen Tu halu from

I was only

gother a vile series of labela in an effort to exolain

why the Kuomintang even Imprisoned the leader el the

Left Opno81t10n.

As you know, that attack was never

sIltten or published.

again In beoember,

1933, upon my return from

you

specifionly demanded that set aldo the resultant

my own Dersonal investigationa in Foochou in order to

write on your behalf (but over my aignature!) an utterly

baBeles&

and slanderous attack on the Left Opnosition.

You will recall that you oharged at that time that the

"Trotskylats" were prominently identifled nith the new

governient set us in rüklen by Chen Ming-abu and TaRl'

Ting-kal. You lumped the Left Opposition with

Party and the so-called soolal Democrats among the potty

bourgeols satellites of the Fuklen militariots.

as much to satlafy mysell. on this very point as to per-

for a miasion for you that l vent down to Pooohow and

Boont. too weeds there and learned through diroot contaot

dosens of people prominently conoerned that the Left

Oposition were stoutly and oleurly onbosed to the foochow

regime.

I havAn!t pirce bare to diecuss the relatione of

tho o.P. to the ohortlited Fuklen dovorment or tho obai

noter of the

"negotiatlong"

which vete going on dom there..

The laportant thing berd lu that on my return you demandod

that I urite Blanders ublah flen in the Iace of averything

I myself bad lanrnod.. It lo Intereoting, ao a aldelight

on your methoda

In Isotional airlie sa you cordelre 18, i

tant your reDIeBentatirO in toodhow dent baox a seport,

through no

sonteally enough, that one of the aost prom

inent of tho youthful begudo-sadlonlo in Foodson, tu

0a1-juon

---

## Page 14

14-00000

- 8.

abi-yuen. to be

It

80

Hot ailt had sereral lericho

intervieva

w1th yu and by the time I left Foodhon I underatood blo

position and his personality exceedingly vell. He vaa as

muon a Trotskyist as Mel Lan-lang 10!

Yas. you sotually

demanded that I ignore my own knosledge of the man and

my artiole on Fution set him down as a

"Trosskyist".

was faoed on the one hand by your demands that I arito

falsehoods to mult your polloled and on tha other by my

deed deafre to set forth: the sotual facts about the Oppo-

sition' 8

attitude sovardo the Fuklen regise.

But onde

I drove

•a a1ddle

out of my artlole.

Despite the trote that these lesues welged more and

more heavily upon me, despite the faot that events in

China and abroad were pressing themselves sore and more

imperatively on the-conoerns of every sinoere revolution

ary, I still tried to keep

the Forum balanoyd on 1t8

s1bbon 11k0 path, concentrating on the at1-kuomintang,

leaot à partial funotion as

ant1-Imperlallnt struggle, and in so doing rulf111ing at

a revolutlonary organ:

deeply folt, however, that I was betraying my readera by

avoiding these 1saues.

How could I write of Germany and

avold all tho imolloations of that disaster? How could

I wilto of Amerion's rooognition of the U.S.S.R. and 8t1ll

fall to say that the Communist International had virtually

been murdered at washington? How oould I warn against the

dangers of luperiallat Intervention in the U.s.s.r. and

st1l1 not point out that Soviet foreign solloy was 1n

Paot dally heightening the danger of such latervention?

Yet I somehot did ao and sought in whatever say possible

to retain one basis. for our continued collaboration.

IV.

Nevertheless, abruotly In January of this year you

toroed an ultimatum upon me and subaquently forced the

broak in our relationship because I could not and would

at your demand,

devote the China Forus to pollotes

noton out me and do not bellene canettle with the

Interests of the Chinese.

Revolution and the international

prolétarian ravolution:

aside the conviotions to which I had

by the atinging last of catastrophio, events in China,

Germany and the world over.

Partloularly ay deep Inter-

est in Chinese events during the last three years made 1t

oo1101e8 and taction whose

I1nally, to give active 9upport to

dIBaBtIOUE affeCis were being

a thousandfold confirmed for me by the tragic events of

overy ewiftly-vassing day.. I could not ignore questions

which atriko at the roota

of our pork and the phole strua-

tura of our hopes for a revolutionary future.

Dospite the faot that these questlons are rooking

antire

Internasional today, you denied ay s1ght to

---

## Page 15

14-00000

1e10e them 1n drint.

You demanded more.

You demanded

that I attaok anybody who did ao - primarily the people

you onll "counter-revolutionary Trotskylats" - the only

peopia who are laoing these problema today in a fearleso,

revolutionary say:

You demanded that the China For

beoomo a stereotype for the voltoled

and vulgar. faction-

al slanders which I could nelther then nor now be party

t0.

In reply to my questions on China you simply quoted

baok to me the lies and half-llen I've been so used to

reading In InDIegOTI.

You even declared:

"Tor propa

ganda purposes a certain amount of exagteration 10 nocee-

gary..." and went on amasingly to say:

"but we know the

true. facts and wo base our poliolas on them

not on these

exaggerationa!" A new slant on modern-day d. I. taotios!

you said,

are curious things.

They bave to be

turned around and around and around and examined closely

unt1l their true nature becomes apuarent.

The trouble 18

you

turn them so far and so qulokly that they turn into

something like a

dizzily turning top of. fandy - or at

best

ulah - Lulftlling misrepresentations.

To my questions on dernany you quoted Beckert,

Platnitexy; and

the 2.0.C.I.'g lamour resolution deolai

Ing that the collapse of the German party and the slaughter

the Gernan workers were based on

future correct polioles of the 0.P.0.!

athe postde tered i had

present and

no right to

offer critloal comment

on the dangerously

opnortunistle foreign and domestio policies of the U.3.B.R.,

most notably on the entry of the U.s.g.R. on a straight

nationalist basis into the disgueting corridors of In

periallat intrigue.

To the contraryi

I mas to lovingly

fawningly fondle and hail the volloles which have meant

diBaster. in

china,

Geraany and elsewbere and are rapidly

leading: the

U.S.3.R. Into the vacuun of nationaliat iso

lation from the world wide nroletarlan movement. Thia I

mas to do, to begin with, by publishing stalin'a face on

the front

pare and columns of the customary panegyrlos

to

b18 infalllbllity.

Above all and before all,

was to

take un oudgels agalnat "counter-revolutionary Trotskyism.

That was to

be the

main point of my reformation - to raise

no questions myself and slander anybody alse who did so.

In reply to your demand that I submit to an editorial

board in order that these editorial polloies should be.

elleotively put into praotice, i offered (1) to continue

oublication

striotly as before, neanubile arguing out my

differences. With you in discussione on the side:

tbrow the columne of the forum onen to a general

sion of all basic revolutionary question, with free play

to unorthodox as well as orthodox viewa.

If your vleug

nare correct, I argued, it would be a distinot advantege

to you to bave such an

opcortunity to display. their cr11-

I1anos alongaide the puny efforte of your cr1t100;

(3) t0

publiah. orthodox news and vieus but to reserve for myself

tha right to comment and criticise.

These repeated offers you roveatedly refused.

You

offered to aisouss these questiona with me verbally 18 in

the

---

## Page 16

14-00000

=10

the seanchile I thron the forun oven to your editorial

board. "sy othas proposala mere unthinkable!

Forin's readero a chance to hear counter-revolutionary"

viemolinta?

Never that!

jutlonary purity by acceding to your demands.

He would

talk thinga over until spring, then 1f all vent well (1.0.,

11 I showed a satiafadtory adrotability to your view-

point) I could paok up for an educational tolp to the

gories Union where I would certuinly become continoed

of the erroi of my vayв..

In other words you wanted my

signature on a pronlisory note with the amount left

blant for you to 11ll in.

You put this in the form of

an ultimatum and you told me that 1f I did anything but

- accept I would forthulth enter the camp of the

"oounter-

revolution'.

•I. had to refuse these terms.

lend ayself to a slanderous and baselesa struggle agained.

the International Left Opposition:

lend space to the nauseatingly fawning praise of Stalin

and unoritloal recention of Staliniat polioleg ubich

charsoterise the Connuniat Party press the world over.

I had to refuse to take shelter in the cold and draughty

empty spaces

whioh atretch behind the lapressive lagade

and sarly tradition of the Communiet International:

would like to go to the Bortet Union for a vist someday -

but I had to refuse your offer on your terms.

I had to

ratuse, In short,

to beoome a haok prostitute in the nano

of the Revolution.

the end, too, I had to refuse to turn over to you

the

printing plant I had built us with so much pain and

strastle badases contes not your property but

the property of the working class moveuent:

Bedause I

disposed of the plant and turned every farthing of the

prooseda over to where I not consider the true intereste

of our Botement 118.

bas with a deep and solding bit

serness that I had considered conrades, then for tuo yeare

it bed fought off all 1t8 many enemies on the outside.

Tos vith lit cano the realisation that be have to

build snes over the suine you have urought.

The revOlu

tion and the bullding of our future noves forward and

uben is trample down the defenses of our enemies we shall

oruss undertoot ererything and everybody that stands in

do syoophantio,

blind, alleglanoe to a name,

empty raoade, a tom and

shredded prestige oan lead ue

Only unserving fidellty to our goal and aotive

strugale towarda this end

with the maapons of a correct

and sosted political line will lift us from defeat to ul-

timate plotory.

To this atrugelo i shall continue to

dedloate all my anergios.

• Harold R. Isaaos.

Pellag,

China

Hay 30, 1934.

(Cooled by RD)

jailyali.

---

## Page 17

14-00000

EUR COPRAIST ACTIVITISS FILES

Date:

Rely 4, 195°

File No.

SOURCES DAILY TORTER

9100 foraci

POST WRITER ADMITS ALL

KOREA OPPOSES INVASION

The Karen prople aro united honest lecalline.

S. Aitretiris Dan't

bchiral the lilneration Arnies from Know Why Help Ilas Cirra

the

North anel are hostilo to the

(in lato editions tho Past in:

A'nerican

trisops

serit there

by dicated its run awarasis of the

Tinanans interventionise order, thre

phoniness of this healine by drugs

Nes York loul's Far last expert.

Harold 18. Laucs, auinitler yester-

ping ir. The new ano complaised:

"Wenk S. Nurean

day.

Regise Hant

pers (ls at t'rone.)

Isanes, artich givo tie lie to

the Post's own elitorial line

But Isancs mado clear that "if.

of in China during the Japenese war

eupport los dio police-state reginic sho Americans luad a frimily pap

¡of Syndimir Ihes are the Tre ilation on

¡defend "denocracy.

detentack on Korea as un aut lo

their sile, this is by

no means tho caso novi in Karea,

Ho concludes: "Einca if (iri dar

Isancs declared that tha U. S. renais

localized, corn si victary

has "much more truein' lie count)

ver in deso crasso will bo e pira-

on sencral kinean hastility than!

on hernie suppert." He idmitted

porary mus, and such s. victory, will

that Sunth Kirein civilis havg.

not be eissily wur

Hean infusselv harder hit by thre.

American

their

inchun so her than loy

lellony-Koreans trom the:

north.

Ine Sungth Korren gourmment

was an "nopopular ono in the elec-

tion held oily four works. ago. :

Isracs said, "the regimon Presi.

chut Syngman Rhico was docisively

stinklated.

Jears declared that the querilla

mortinenis in. Smith Kirra

could

leave operated only with a run-

arterable measure of papalie sup

and he acknowledend the

intense desire of all Hurrans for

¡runification of their disuremiseral

cimintry."

To top this story, bristling with

exposuro of lbe imperilita nature

ol live Truman allack on Konce.

i ard with evilence of she human

Imple's avvercneis..of sheir mal

many, lie Prost cratested the dis.

RECORD COPY

HIN ATT d5 To 3SaU6

501-15146

---

## Page 18

14-00000

8100-Prsas, Horold.

Deceaber 2, 103d.

no. 1$80.

SECRET

a1 là referenco to R.A. aGaorancus No. 1305 of Decomber

d, 1031, regardian Harold Isnico and ais ecareotion sita

Silalre NOClIN!

1t has Just been lourned that one viola

nealM. Ca arrived 1n

shanghas on lupust ce, 1032, by tho.

•no g.so arRiss cr. nold.

Coco ther

Bith Harold Indica of the chiNa Poack, gaia дot10e

so the infred slatoo consulato inoral of their intendod

sarrlage, andon actually took placo in

lie lath september.

la als. marclage application,

IsiCS particularly requested

Bans no pubilcity

bo elven to tho foreiccalas ceremory.

a-pours that MiBo ROBIN. ON 1i a folioner of the surfrogotto,

LUCY STORM, 03O, 80MC

dirteen

or tienty yeara 350, surccatod

azong imerican nonen the retention of the

maiden naud after

рагІ1Оÿ:

iccording to oriicials of tho initod statos

Consulate Genoral, VIciu! CHINCh, therofore, slil not be

sacon as irs.

ISANCE.

In connection sith Viola CoIN: IN actiTitlos 1a China,

lester, dated szochuen, July 24, 1931, Harold ISnics

ROTE SO VIOlA:CHINSCN ao folloss:.

"You sre in tho arie, vlola, l's coalng back to

¿ive 1n und sain alongside.

That do you. chlok? It

1s all extranaly fortullous from our standpoint

she: I abould have eeen the lirar at last.

icoo and the future in 18 la far nore

Important tuan snythlag jou could co out here or

anyatoro elon for

i'll get back -

no matter a poeslule dalsy : no catter

B111 de o

jou to be done anu by cur dods l'm golno

¿tiention la called lo the nome nur meriticned in the açoro

citradt.

Time

RECORD COPY

1.-812-

Te 35456

#: 01-186641

---

## Page 19

14-00000

900% 122206, rieseld

Considors1al:

ARICAR GRULES SERVICE.

MeriCan Consuluto CAneraL,

Snanched, Crisa, Doociber 10, 1931.

subjools Harold H. Isaaos.

17I5 HONORASLE

RADIOTEA,

8181

I have the honor to roport chut an Azerloan

oftisen named Harold R. Lennos has seen rigoriod to

thia offloo by the pollos of the Intorational Soo-

slenant as a consunlat mispoat.. Mo footo secard1a6

MS. INaDDS aNO brIOrly da fOllora:

15. Euroid R: IGnaBs Oallod at 4110 orfiao 15

Dedember, 1930, and siarod that do rould bo for a fou

sonthe 1n shanghals al that t1n0 he chibited pass-

DOrs lio. 179020, ladied by the Dapartmons of State on

Karon 17, 1950. FO staçod thas lo espootsd lo louta

shenchal in duno, 10311, 8at Elo hose nao 1n jou Tors

City and that hia local cuarcos sad in coro os the

Merloan Ex, rosa company.

sOcOrdInE so l'0110e roporta IOneds arrived in

9, B. PErSIIY JERPERSON da Doochber 29, 1930. HO FaB

Later by the CHIll PRUS? bus appurently 1oat LoBa

2R0A11SAg•

no 61-155-441

---

## Page 20

14-00000

positione. No has residod with: a British aubinot nansa

do Franis CluBa at lea olhalre1 Rond aná nodo a trip alta

Glaso to froohuen during Juno, 1031. MiO DOLICO SIlO

containa a doy of a loller written by hin to a Hug

Viola robinson, ouro of thA lorion Consulato, pruaden;

Germuny, doted July 26, 1931, n8 Chonetu, 3z0shuen.

This lotior, 1t lu susted, sao roturne! unoponed to

shanghad tron Drosdon, addroosed to Nerold l. Isance

In OuTo of the Anarionn Earne

corpuny, chanchal, and

mus openod by the post 0ff1oo Consor at the roquest of

2ho Cormiasioner of Fosto.

The lotter la very lore and

shove that Jensos, al thoush prertoualy holdine oon-

mundatio viova, only doolded dofinitaly to turn "Ted"

during July of tule your. Ho statro that ho rao in-

fluencod in thia dooleson by certain conterentiona vith

0. Frani Glaãs, noore referrod tó, durine their trip to

Saaohuen.

In connootion thoreulth 1t nay bo of intorcat to

state 8h18 8030rd1n110 a 101t00 report datod potobor.

17, 1031, InPOrASIOn POgardIrE tRIO I01S0r MaN BiTen

by the shanelal tundelpal toldoo to an officor of the

local Britial Consulata Goneral, tho apperantly dedlad

atates trat a roply naa subsoruontly Icoelva the cles

of thon 10 as falloun

"Viola noblomn arrived in tho unlted

Seaten absus tho maculo of cantedunt.

The

mola tilly aro coomniato in touci sita

I30200 fa-11g.

Tho pollee denso Paul lasolo 1, Isacos di doventer,

2031, 0ababldahed a neva aranoy undor the reso of the

---

## Page 21

4-00000

"Fir 1a9:05r Trida Corrobionlehoo," cuble didreea

Yeupreeop, P. l. Box 1020, Un Cotubar Dil Innada and

C. Frak Glaos morod 17O: 120 701211001 RoMA BO HOUDO

Fo. 8, rassaco No. 277, Avonuo Dubail, tio police state

that shia audrone mus fomerly linow ne iuaber 25 Avonue

Dubail ana la tho boarding louso at shich lenos smedloy

roBidod So day, 1029, to day 1030. 1h0 polled soport

that dends Smodloy Sroguently vialso Idanes and Class

at 8h1e sidross.

in tay monthly polstloal sayort for houseber, on

pago 1o' le was atriod that the bodlen of nunerous ncabera

of she farily of a versain lou lad beon murdored, alleceily

Do cornists in retallation for koula purring trattor to

tho dormnist osuse.

In conncotion mith thio matter

Isaas aidresso an open lotter to tha verdous nevapajora

of shancint, under date of lovonsor 84, 1931, 10 wnlch

no seored then ior umnding chose allogos mirdoro ao

"arrible" and "destardly, hilo at the saze tino thoy

ald not raise choli elitorial to1000 açuinat the molo-

Balo Muriers dorital by Chiang ral-shek, the Darrison

Gonzandes of shunglial and other Chineso niiltariato.

Lone of the papers sam fle to publiah this lotter bus i

haro sobolted a oopy thoreos, and copios are enclosod.

¡ Lave aldo sorelvad a prognstatio dopy of tho last Daco

E'win so Gurrinaires,

118108102:

perilalai.

---

## Page 22

14-00000

Enolonwe!

1/- Copy of oson lotter froe tarold

A true copy of

Be 160008, datod lovenUr 8s, 1051.

Pride d

tlie sigeed orig-

ĐCOD

In SuadrusAlontg

No CopY to Locition.

---

## Page 23

7400000°

di, ilsi, on tho sunjeet:

of Eduin

3, Cunninches,

China,

date: leo enber

"Harold di. Isuneo."

N 02H1N

A TU: 291

191%

Your pubilontion of tho "cinatly (Shenahal Times),

"hori1blo" (China Press), "dactunily" (vonla jost and

liortu China Dally tool minters allajodly cunitied dy

Chinado Corruntata in Cho Frmio!: C-nonsalon brings

forolbly to nind cértain othro unects of tho Chinosa

suene phone chaotliness and barbarity find thoir mos

Inco your columna only at suro intervals - nd tie

only in brief dool nararraphe.

Thero ann be no atiope en "justity theso ailocod

HUNdOrE, 19

¿lie tulo bo truo.

we all hase the cuts of a

traltor.

put no cannot all condono a pyotes of vendotta

no bie slice ot batisin the innodont l1vos

of a trastor!s fundiy.

Mint, horovar, droivod tro.

quostion of difiering

anatore to milon no abatraos

moral a solute oun poems to monied.

Botrayal has ita orlos under any socia. nors,

mother me tum tho dirty Tori, of vangesnco ovar to tho

ineffable neroles of the iora or eploy the legs soothodio

but sorn offcotivo Inatumanta of die Beliono, aleotrio

ohair,

lothul chanber,

the guillotine or the : ore Forined

DeSpOnG of 900111.

9848001831

mio:!os me consider tio

trutor haBali caspong1sle for his aotlong • or 9xa0s

rotribut1.n

for lila blood printions so 8o1l.

(Jeborah,

too,

waits the sing of she rather moon his chilaron,

yes, oron unto die thini and sourth mnerationes)

desid of murder in

Frenohtorn.cun

atill mithout e gunla ondone and

epress sutiafnotion at noy curdere a thousand theos

mero revoltine, a thousad tines nore barbaroue - but

1090 so in Jur joumalistloally Judioloua eyes only

berause ofriulally perpotratod.

Tou elt: distora - to sio manine sanding. your sen

out to run dorn

tho inat throadod folos to this partlouder

story - why don't you and then nut so lunahua cono Mine

ВИПЛУ ПОГЛІК

Thy don's ms iive then an opportunity

to FlEnnes the Borture and Murdo of mounG don mE FOmen

whoso only crime la a ronistlo approclation of tho

social and scroute fictora at vori:. In lie sorld and

a demand for thal, readjustuent?

You @ 150r9, Hho

Meld wur editorial powera Bo

you a valstontly oranino and

• OrniTeds that salndalno tiselr

largely by daggerutaly slou neerine the flower of 188

pronging Juuch and ino bac:bone of 1is boanart a a000

who aboralet protest iringt des venality and cosruption?

Snis

---

## Page 24

14-00000

only sion 1t la convenient for sur forelin Intrrcota,

horever,

• an so: find 11. politio to trit out me el jour

PaTorito Bloats urainst the sunklug secleo, attaera milon

aro ilmost almage dimallatoly ofroet by the nasoonting

ouloc1o8 end blarnt 1100 tin: follon.

Conaldered pma jour on polne di vion, leoro.

saltors, Gho rariorere of thee frosolitoun people choula

Do broicht to juotion und lado to day for cheir orlios.

sus sintlarly fro. your om poirt of view, to shut dor of

Juatice bluuld Chlung Fal, Sher Do brought

bofore that

iMbunale can we urate the carriaon eomandoro of shanchos,

Anking, Bankow,

the warlords of Chanture,

Szochuen,

Funnatung and Wanchwile fot the lavee thoy hare taken in

the pornotual mre they have anal on the ecoplo st China?

on any prirolylon of abstruct juntide.

1o the rass minder

of thougunds by the muchine sus,

tho bomber, tie 51s1e, the

cho ngo any moro luat than the lurtive strenculation

of rino hopoloss relatives of a sell-birnded yellon durg

th1 o perpotual

mrfaro has bean vaied on the protect of

supproad ine "banditry."

Tr thia be ao, me aro confrontai

men the startline foot, vouchel fox and navortised by

the rovar.ant boasting

trio recognition st nil coroln

tlat vast portions of tho Chinoda population uo

ole provlicos,

mannucle thousands, thie leavy tollo

Prom tho nougro life cornines it nouganto ond vorkers.

and with all their cune und planea ind hundredo of

chousando of soldiers, thoy silll feil to eradioato the

*Didits. "

Japan, In violation of socallod prinolples

but 1n fall nocora mith tho losiong of

natory, 1o helping horsole to a pica 6i100 of continontal

magelg port of thie lutine covarment'o dounto.

1nod1. the courago, the ability, the inolta tl 80180n

the ruorintane alta in solenn

annolave at lianicino and

1s9 tuia on the invado: 100u000s further measuroo thiod,

population to pro 208

soro effeativoly.

Let un tale some at tinn fiota soredienlly smorted

My ur own end the chinoon progo diring lay -Dogenver,

You reported 1,740 Grecutions.

from other,

noticulous ources aro deriven at dietros thich shor that

so lose thon soolo ore arceited dursne the laat four mentho

ol 1930 aloro!

Mula f1 we sounds (lobulas, doos:'s 14?

Tet tor every diatt there 1o sonerare in China a sorting

Darine she person colloming the close

of tho

so-balled 'aflitary porind et sha ruomineone in 19La

---

## Page 25

4-00000

-3=

to the opening of tle 1.1r0 Plenari josolen of tho

кобего, роддло,

and atidenta pot dout: at che hando of china'o

"COVOlUtIOMIY" NTIles..

ene shangha! url 1y (ch1noso)

Into tho nost jorr o: itoriallzod 8o rollino,-

"all china's problana could bo sutist.cturtly coition if

the tood Fori of dio pass feo intha oun do antitimed.

Pron lurat to cotober (10s0 alore 100, 0us costunisa

tore killou and 150, 000 pooplo starved to death 1a tho

fanino regions."

Anel 1f the dinenators of thase idcurco aro not

Shactly enoue to nov Tu:

shal1 mo cre:no in a bit of

1010180u0 doncJincIan 01. ThO 10rW98 9.n1101 DY 1'00

tighttous suvlora of China?

Chall to synal of tho

0us71ng9 1n 016,

¿he busying alivo lao voro fiva young

san nid monon et lunchuo on Feb. 7 lest) the strenmulatlon,

tio unapackablo mutilatsr of huann dodios boforo : 0a8h?

Thoso aron't mili nichenares. You baro oll scon ond

shuddored at the photopraghe which con atill se bought

Mero and thare in Chanchos dopiotine sinco prueensas su

alt their grielinoso.

And at thoae,

Mesara, E itors, do you raira

your orltorial hando 1r

suir.tly horor?

no you aplogh

sour. columne riti the adjeotives "assenally,

horr tolo,

chastly?"

That.would offend 500r Nänking.

Ir10n:8.

IP jo do not malitaln silonon that bospoako

contentons, su trasonly applaud.

quote jou chaptor una vorso fe Tour orn 0iltorinlo.

mare are no creans.

no puslications lero that

saro 100k sliose isoto tolair in tho foco...

masthenis all carry boaste of your impartlality, fero

18 8і ле05е опО оброгсШІу ТО ІПОзЬ СлеТ ВіСП ВОІ

qually of vorial 111tudo.

(5153108)

Harold R: IB2a0B

277 Arenuo: Duba11,

. Fouse &.

Hovember 24, 1931.

---

## Page 26

14-00000

•ER

COLONIST ACTIVITIES FILES

FILE NO.

SOURCB!

DATES.

D.".

9-4-12

EDITOR OF CHINA

PAPER IN DANGER

Threat to Turn Isaacs

Over to Nanking

BRANGIAI,

Btreet

108. 2.-T7€

Wall

fovernment,

gupporting ts

Narking butcher agents, has threat:

ened to lurn oger Harold R. IsaBe,

American editor of the "china Fore

um." fe. the Nanking hangmen.!

so editor of tha. 'Ching Farun,".

Loadst hay

committed

tho crime

agalient

Imperialism

or sunporting.

tho chinese Revolution and ruthless-

ly exposing the mass murder of Tov.:

olutionary Chineso workers and pend-:

ants by the Nanking regimo and the;

United Blates and

other imperiallst

bilgands. He hes expased tha shame-!

ful sell-out of the Chinese

by the Nanking traitore lo the Jap.:

aneso, American and other Imperlal.:.

•The Unlled States government has

warned Innacs that le will withdrnt

this

protection

of

extra-territorial

Manta unleso th ó "China Poruri":

changes lla edilorial and ness poli!

Icles,

Undor tho

extra-territorially

eraalles Imposed upon China by the

Imparallels, American and' other citle

sens of the imporliat powers may

not be tried in the Chinese courte

Because Isaacs la an Ameritcan..cltl-

zen the Nanking government has nob

been able to wreack lis vengeance, on

blm for bla exposure or their bloody.

esitor and betrayal of the Chinese

Tho Wall Street Covera,

ment,

which protacts it business

agents in lo0ting Orind now proposes

to throw. Isaace to 11s Nanting lack-

eys tor trial in the Chinese rouris

an

charges carrying life imprison.

sent or the death penalty.

insco bay escegoricallo ferred u

concodo lo the demands of th. United

Biates government thai hé change

to palscies ol

tho

"China Forum."

Ho la clasely assoclated in lie anti..

imperialls, ants-Rucciniang

mit's Madam: Sun Yat-sen, Who lá

chlarmon os the commistre bading

Che nighe to sare Paul sal Gertrudo

RueRRy from a desch sentence la pha:

Chinces courte

RESETICaD DOTRETS and Intellectuals

and thei arganizations should at

0R0Ca

cend rigorous protest lo tho

Department at

passington,

lo dosen in the Nandina Cou'ls

othes, at ats trattort Atates

RECOUT:

tart is 51442-13616

---

## Page 27

14-00000

Press Gaterer

1130112.

9550

diroct so Parla for throo of fixir davo befero procoeding to

Londoro. Elo vialt to parli 18, iberciori, atriotly unofflodal.

FRANCE

I corruspondent asked if the fronch Governmont had askod

tho Stato Dopartment for an agrizuat for & new Ambassador in

Washinstón, M. Germaine-Martin. dir. Rogurs replied in tho

negativo.

CHINA

A corrospondent askod 11 Represontativo La Guardia of

Now York had asked the Stato Department to interveno in tho

casa of an Amorican namod Harold Isaacs who 1s now oditing a

newspaper in China, which, according to prees dispatches,

I8 a Conrunist organ. The correspondent continued by saying

that according

to stories the Abrican diplomatic officers

in China warnod

Mr. Isaacs that da irould be likely to 1080

his oxtratorritorial status because of hisactivities. Fur

thoraors, bla father, who is in fer York, wants the Depart-

ment of state to get kI. Harold Isaacs back and have him de

ported.. In reply, Ur, Rogers said that ho kney nothing of

'any comunication from ur. La Quardia on the subject. In re-

gard to the story, It la not trie that this Government hae

threatened to deprive lr. Isaaca of his extraterritorial rights

In shanghal.

BCLIVIA-PARAGUAY

A correspondent asked if the State Departuent had rocoivod

any roporta to the effect that the Boliviens had captured tro

Paraguayan forts. In roply, It. Fogars said that he undor-

stood that Assistant Secrotary anita talked mith the corcospon-

dante last night concorning the sisuation and that br. inito

might posalbly bo able to seo the corrospondenta again today.

1/aTT 68 76 8992 - 35616

M.. D CE

201-15446

---

## Page 28

14.00000

FBI REPORT

DATE:

10 AUGUST 1953

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: HAROLD ROBERT ISAACS

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

FBI FILE #: 100-286213 - BUREAU

105-1247 - NEW YORK

artp.ennini-rat.com

---

## Page 29

14-00000

ZOTOV. IVAN PAVLOVICH

119 MORDOVIAN

REPUBLIC ASSR

S211600/1970

WEST GERMANY 1970

-....

401354377

as Pron19

201-018446

Secut

---

## Page 30

14-00000

FBI REPORT

DATE:

6 AUG 1952

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

HAROLD ROBERT ISAACS

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

FBI FILE #:

100-286213 (BUREAU)

105-1247 (NEY YORK)

---

## Page 31

14-00000

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

SECRET

T:: 1 08 8.0

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

RI PILE NO.

8. 0118

SOSMIMATRO IN

DOCUMENT.OISPOSITION.

TRANSPLANEO TO

BI PILE

NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

Tri. 9A78

ISAACS;

HAROLO RO

201-018446

SEX M. DOB 13 SEP 10

USA, NY. NYC

201-000419

XAA2-24958

13 APR 67

P.4

CIT

USA

OCC JOURNALIST

a LO.

SEN

NEWSWEEK CORRESPONDENT IN SHANHAS IN 30S.

INVOLVED IN CP

FRONT ACTIVITIES. CONTACT

OF SMEDLEY AND NOULENS.

POSS IDEN HIALIAS

JACOB, A MBR OF SORGE GRU RING IN SHANGHAI.

R.

6707240926

FILE IN 201-01844k

FILE THIS FÖRM IN FILE NO.

1. 1, 887 000 00r

SECRET

---

## Page 32

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chlof; DR

SECRET

HEADED 109 25T1NE

IN MANITE SHOUIRIO

LET SURGE NINE NIEG

ALTONLY

GIACE Representative. Boston

SUBJECT

ISOLOG/KUSPARROW/Operational

ACTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES.

DE. Harold R. ISMOS, Profeasor of Political Sclonce at M.I.S.

C 12 JUly 1967, WUSPARRO:/1 renewed bla old friendstio vich

Subject at the MIT Faculty Club.

Subject is now a sentor research associate

at NIl's Center for International Studies and has recently bees asmed a

Professor.

2. For the part fer years Subject has been working on an incemational

study series Involving sinority racial groups.

His reports have been

published in the New Yorker magasine and an books, The lew tarld of legro

Anericans and Indin' 3 Untouchables.

Subject plans to publish is August

195T a book on the American Jews

in Icrael and is vorking an anotber on

the Philippines.

3.

WUSPARROl first not subject in 19l6 after he had just completed

a long and friendly interview with lio Chi Minh as Far Bast correspondent

for Newsweek. At that time, subject felt that the United States was noking

a mistake In not accepting lu as the leader of a united Vietns, seeling

that Ho was independeat enough of China to nake him at vorst a sort of

I'lto.

4. Subject presently is despatring of United States foreige relations

In that our people fron Washington, or elsehero, seldom sees to establish

a deep rappart with Asian or African nationals.

subject feels- that such

relations as do exist navar reach more than an Inoffective superficial

5. Subject first bent to the Far East about 1930 when be sas a creu

member of the Matson Line's Malolo and disembarked at Honolulu to sar$ Por

the Honolulu Advertiser, (WUSPARROW/2: went to work for the sune paper two.

years later.) Subject went next to the Fhilippined where be varked on a :

malla dally.

Wille in Yanila he was offered the editorship of the Bangtak

Royal Matt, to fill In for St. Clair HIFTHAY, nou of the lew Yarber.

CONTINUED . . :

Distribution:

(SCape, filid 300-6-36C/3 File in 261-18446

ASPATCH STHBOR ANO HUNGER

UTEA - 543

SECRET

12 Argust 1967

HOS FU! 12'81858

200-5-360/3

---

## Page 33

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSiPICATION

BECRBT

DASPATCH SABU INO PLIESIA

UTTA - 543

6.

Subject'a mind vas set on China and in Late 1931 be sort ta

Shanghal and Joined The China Pross, vorking alongaide Tillman DUNDIN,

nor of the Now York Tires.

Subject lost his job with The China Press

after a flare-up. with Holliagton TONG, part-orner of the paper..

subject

then joined the Nersweek. foreign staff.

subjoct was in and out of

Bangkok after Hold war II and HuSPANfow/1 vocaine friendly with his.

According to WUSPARROM/1, many people rogard subject's Tragedy of the

Chinese Revolution as a significant vork and a recent writer on chira,

Dennis BLOODdORIl, holds a good vier of Subject's Scratchen on the Mind.

subjoct not-seens permanently settled with MIT, having bought

a bone at 9 Farlos Road, Neston.

subject hosts thore at pool-side

"seminars" on Saturday afternoons, with MIT faculty Erlerds and journalist

friends such as Bob SHAPLEN coming by. Subject Imvited HUSPARRON/1 tO

participato as vell.

8. However, ao HUSPARRON/1 ascertained, Subject has little contact

with foreign students save for an occasional adult foreign graduate

We bope, considering Subject's background, that he vill prove

WILL FUSPARROH/1's gutdanco to be a profitable unitting apotter an

• assessar of foreign graduate students.

LOUIS R. ROLLOFIER

730

---

## Page 34

US

NIC

x-634>

DW-T

T.lcphone Requeat for Name Check

FROM

TAKEN BY

PSB/ FBI

Gerry F

ROBINSON,

Viela

NAME

U.S.

Land tracer

Priority br

For Use of R1 Nime Check Control Gliec

DATE 24 NOV 1965

_CHECKED BY -

ALIAS AND SPELLING VARZE TIONS

6

/ 20/10

DATE AND PLACE OF/SIRT:

OTHER WDENTIFYING DATA

REFERENCES

NAI to (SC1 316/04352-65

dated 260ct. 65-

subject. is HAGS, Horald RoSt

pu Trace by Diann

WAIS

au10.100.65

24//05

Z6NQN.69N 201-18446

---

## Page 35

14-00000

special

RSVERN TO: Talsor

10/14/05

FIL8 #151-1423

PC

BUDSD:

• NANS

EJT

USC

11/113

ISAACS, EAROLD SOBSNT

BORN:

Sopt. 18, 1910,

HY

Sec (51 15-22-66-2153

+Cetse Rep i0 13-45

N: BA5TIUG 1AlL1 120L0907

dob Juno 20,

1910, M7C, NY

marrlud Shunghay,

popt. 14,

ADDRESSES:

SANCS

Aug., 1985 to prusunt,

96 Farlow Rd., Noutoy, Mass.

Jülg, 1939

to Aug.;

1965

HL BB:

Pob., 1941 to July, :1953, 333 Cuntral Pk. Host, NYC, NY

Sopt. : 1941 to Peb., 1944,

1940 to Sopt., 1811,

72

4938

Frlondship Ets., Id.

Pks.

Torraco weot, bYC, HY

1937 to 1940, 10 Monroe St., MYC, NY

NDUCATION

Goorgo Hasbiagton 8. S., AYC, 1023 to 1926

SSH:

ALPLOYGENT:

Maas. IaBt.

of Tocknology,

acadunde,. research

to 1950,

Newsweed, NDC, CBI, Pacifte, SE Asda, NYC, reportor,

MRI COIJOS. @5s00.

1943, Lookhoed Aircraft Corp.,

to 1943, Columbia Broadcasting Co., RYC, WDC, ESiteI

1934 to 1835, solf esploged, Poñlag, China, vritor

1932 to 1931, Hava Nows Адерсу,

Shangha1, China,

news editor

1931 to 1933, China Press, Shaggbal, China, Clty oditor

1930 to 1931, Shal Sroning Post,

Sbangba1,

Chinz, roportor

1930, Honolulu Advortiser, Eonolulu, soportor

FOREIGN TRAVEL:

Сідд, 1930 to 1935,

Trarcl,

work, urit1og

- China, Burna,.

Icdia, 1944,

$o 1945, war

corros. Nowsweek

PI, India,

Indosesia,

Pulll1ppines,

1949 to 1949, Hussoook snaignieot

1950 го 1950,

coveT Baguo coalurouce

Eurojo Milnly Ua, 1957 to

druch., Israel, Indis,

o to a 1 dale reae proseite

alaga, Pí., otc., 1963 to 1964,

EEZATIVSS:

Fatber, I. Robart Isgaca, derarsod

MotauI,

soghle -Do=l1u,

docoasud

H1fe, Flula Boblason Isaaes, dob 1910:

REFERENÒA:

5.5aict Earivor, Pusde Cores.: IXi, keoan 17 gro.

HILE IN 231-

19446

icridls 201)

NAI t infermatine frui,ded.in

poosedle souf

---

## Page 36

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

U! :

INIT

* C7 CONFERE TIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBSECT: (Opranoi)

FROM:

US

TO: (Ottier designation; rooms anaber, and

britchung)

CI STAFF: "2C 35

z.

J RID/CE

GA -10

Attn: Sarah Marmaduke

LATENSION

KO

aile

25 October 1965

UNITED STATES

CATE

KOTTO

26 0cT 1965

26 00T 1955

RID/AN GA 50

7.

8.

NI/TY.

TO: PSB/FBI

10:

1?

13.

FILE NUMBER

101

ENCLOSURE

ABSTRACT

I3.

RID/FI IB 4003

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 37

4-00000

SECRET

FO FOREA ORTH

26 0CT, 1965

TO:

FROM:

-SUBJECT:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

ATIN: Special Agent In Charge of

Washington Field Office:

Deputy Director for Plans

ISAACS, Harold Robore.

Referenco le made to the request dated la Octobor

1965 concorning Subjack. Attached for your retention lo a

copy of our

dated 13 October 1965,

Bubjoc!: ISAACS, Harold Robort. It is noted that a portlon

of tho information appearing in said

was previously

forwarded to you in our SODB 20568, dated 2 December.

1949, subject: Harold Robert ISAACS.

Encl. I aame chock

l attachment as stated above

RID/CE: JMA/CPL/ell

Based-on: CSCI-316/04169+65

CS. COPY

SECRET

PAIGN DISSEM. : IN 201-184FKe

8235

bitte 809l

003-223

---

## Page 38

14-00000

C.)

Specil

KETURN TO: Ta1nor

10/14/63

CaW

FILS 0131-1123.

PC

BƠDED: 11/113

NAMS: ISAAUS, HAROLD ROBERT

EORN:

Sopt. 12, 1910, NIC, SiT

OCT 15

UST

MS:

marIled Shanghal, Sopt. 14,

ADORESSES:

Aug..?

1965 to presont, 86 Farlow Bd., Nouton, Hasa.

July,

1953 to Augi.

Pob., 1841 to July, 1953, 339. Cuutral Pi. West,

HYC, RY

Sept., 1941 to Fob., 1944, 1938

Keypost Ave., Friondship ata:, ho.

1980 to Sopt.,

1941;.72 Ps. Terrico Heat, HYC, NY

1937 to 1940, d0 Honroo SE., MYC, NY

EDUCATION

George Hashington E.

s.; NYC, 1928 to 1938

SSR:

EMPLOYNENT:

1953

Ha sg.

Iast, of Tochnology, Cano,

Mass,, agadenie, research

1949 to 1950,

Newatoes, HDC,

CBI, Pagido, SS Asla, NYC, reportor,

wat corres.

23500.

aditor

1943, Lookhoed Aircraft Corp., NDC, radio writor,

1940

to 1943, Columbia Broadoasting Co., NYC, YDC, Us1tOX

193€ to 1935,

self onployed, Pating, China,

Eritor

1932 to

1934,

Bavas News Agonoy, Shanghal, China, news editor

1931 t0

1932,

China Press,

Shangha1, China, olty oditor

1930 to 1931, Shal Auguras

роту, Сід, горотох

1930, Honolula Advor Duf22 ot

inter tor

FOREIGN TRAVEL:

ANALIEL

2H10113/05

Calea, 1930 t0 1935, hol, lik atlas

180 t6 5945, L0K Corres. Newsweek

Husswook assigament

confcroice

Pb1]l1pplnos,

Czoch.; Israel,

Malaya, PI., oto.,

RELATIVES:

Fathor, I. Bobort Issaca;

docassed

Nother,

Solsto

DOTIID,

docoaned

H1Io, Viola. Bobinson Isaacs, dob 1910, gAsO

1.6.F 20

REFARKNCE:

03 C078

FILE IN 201-

Sirgunt Shrivas, Puaco Corpo:, MDC, EnovA 17 559.

18 0СT 1965

---

## Page 39

ITOUI 1O: 101008

20/14/00

FILS 0152-1123

C.A

iC

2ODSD: 11/817

8A2b: ISIACS, BASOUD ROLBRT

CORN: Sopt. 19, 1010, MXC;

US: sarriud Viola posiesos,

Lob juno 30,

mariruó suarghal, Sopt. 1,

1932

1010, МУС, 187

HS.

G0T z8

ADDRESSES:

лug..

July,

1065 to pruzoas, 96 fuadow Ed., cuutos, L=3.

1953

to Ausi, 1005

Xubi,

1911 to Jii],

1933,

28S.

233 Castia-

en. lost, hTC, kY

Scpt., 1911 to ICb., 1941,

$533

NUUsOre AvO.,

1940 to Sopê.!

Friundüblp Ats., Id.

1592,

72

193% to 1810,

Po, sezaice icot, inic, 2iz

10 Lonroo Se., 43, 1X

EDUCATION

Guorço Wasaiagton #. S., H8C, 1923 €o 1926

SSN:

FLPLOYLENT: 14T0-1653

143 dre saeenvens fawyres nyc

1953

Laci. Faut: o2 Icci=olody, Canb, lass.,

1913 to 1950, Noworock, HIC, CEi, Paclile, SS Asla, UYC, oportos,

war corces. 2n50c. cdiïos

1943, Lookhoud Arcaalt Corp, Kec, radlo wiitoz,

1910

to 1943, Colunbla Sioadeasilas Co.,

1934 to 1935

XXC, KEC, urItOr

, 2olf ouplojed, Podios, Chica, weitor

1932 to 100%, Lavas douo Agcacr,

1931 to 1902, Chica Pe033,

Shanghas, Calua, nors editor

1930 to 1931, Baa1 EvezloE Post, Sbungenl,

MLEGAR1, CRiRO, CIEy OdIEOr (EMINA FORUA)

Crina, reporter

SUJO, HOCOLULU ACVOILIICE,

Ronolulu, cupostor

925-1900 Ne-r0y6kk tionds-lypowren

FOREIGN TRAVE:

Chiau, 1330 t0 1935, Travol, wock, writloa

China, Burga,

-2d4?, 1944,

PI,

India,

Edozcsla, 1949. Lo 1949, Fouswook

10 1049,

¿o 1945, wa= corros. leucrook

aasigazent

Pa1llipylnos,

1050 to 1956, cover Biguo conferozce

EUrODO La1alY UE, 2057 to 1957,

trayo?, vislt usivcrsity

CICCh. ,

Ioraul, Incie, 1960 10 1960, acadonich researca project

Malaya, PI., ctc., 1063 to 1964,

RELÁTIYES:

Fatior, I: 20-0rt sarcca, deccasod

Yottur;

Sophio Duriia, decoasud

H1al, Vlola ZobLAsOa Isaaca; dob 1010, Sabo

REZERBIS:

Sitgont Suritor, Poace Сorpa., ГС, вдота 17 угс.

ilinä ll: 2.51-12446

(Tudle lo 201)

porriber soref

22 ОСТ 1955

S NAI to Inforsation forvarded in GSCI-316/01352-65,

aatod 26 Octobar 1965, subfocts ISMCS, Harold

Roberto

14: 093

DINs

---

## Page 40

4-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

INTONAL

US.

SHIY

-CO CONFIE ITIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

FROM:

FID/CE

US

1O: ¡Offroi designation, roara number, and

burkling)

CI STAFF: 20 35

?.

3. RID/CE

GA - 10

Attn:, Sarah Mârmaduke

LITIASION

DATE

MORiVIO

КОТИЛкОО

12 067,065

DATE

11 October 1965

COMMENTS (Number doch common la shou tron uton

10 м

troa.

Drone o linio across roturis attor asia commant.)

DAKEE'!

NINAL

C6

1.3 0CT 1955

RID/AN GA 50

7.

8.

RINMIS

TO:

PSB/CSC

FILE TITRE

15.

RID/FI 1B 4003

8-02

610 monous

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

FALE-NUMBER

201

-/8*

ENTLOSURE

446

ABSTRACTI

DOCUMENT DATE 15 75T 1965

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 41

14-00000

SECRET

HO FOREISA DISSEM

1 3 0CT 1955

TOS.

United Statos Clvil Service Comminalon

Attention: Mr. JoBeph G. Campbell

FROMS

Deputy Director lor Plaas

SUBJECT: ISAACS. Harold Robert

1. Reference la made to your renos: dated 14 Soptemiber 1955.

Tho fileo of this office contain considerable information concerniag

Subject., the galient elemente of which are summarized below.

2. According to undated information (rom a rellable sourco,

Subject born 13 September 1910 in New York City, assived in Shanghai,

Chias, from Manile, Philippine Islanda, in December, 1930. Firat

employed in Shanghai by the Engliah language dally, Evening Pool and

Mercury. Subject became associated e few wocke later with the China

Press,

with which he romained until May 1931. In June 1931 Subject.

traveled up the Yangtze River with the Britieh Communlat, Cecil Frank

GLASS, a suspocted agoat for the Third International in Chiaa. Also

in 1931, Subject became the Shanghni secretary of the Comite Liter-

nationalo Pour la Defense de Paul et Gertrude RUEGG (NOULENS), a

committee, with Headguarters in Berlin, formed to aid the defense of

'the NOULENS againe: charges of espionage perferred by the Chinese

Government. Subject was in correspondence with Willi MUENZENBERG,

Presidont of the Committee and an active agent in Germany for the Third

International. Suoject was also known to be in contact with A gnos

SMEDLEY In Shanghal during the aame period. On 14 September 1932

in Shanghai, Subject married Viola ROBINSON, an American citizen

bora 10 June 1910 in New York City. Miss ROBINSON wao belloved to

have been connected with Communist activitieg in the United States

and in China.

Corrcapondeuce between her and Subject prior to their

marriage indicated that they were both sympathetic to activitieo

being conducted by the Communiois in China.

ALE IN 201-28446*

CS Corr

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSES

8801P1

Waited 9:1 Si:-81:0

439955382

195/288!1161:.21

201018446

---

## Page 42

• 4-00001

SECRET

HO PESOSA DU SEM

3. According to predecessor organization laformation, Subjoct

was aloo employod no a slail writer for the Havas Newo Agency in

Shanghal during the period 1930-1935 and was a member of the Socloty

ol Friende of the USSR and of the China League for Clull Rigato.

.

An undated report from an unknown source indiented that

Subject had turned agrinet ibe Stalinist Government of the USSR, and

had become e Trotokyite (probably duriag the 'mid-1930's). Friendo

oi Subject atatod that even during tho height of his Trotskylat careor

he never accepted money from ady group, that he was open and above

board, and that he never cagaged in any conspiracies to overthrow

cotablished government. They also indicated that Subject was

attracted to communiem by shaer idenliam, Immedlately after Pearl

Harbor, Subject broke with the Trotelyite group as he had troken

with the Corimunlaband began writing propaganda for the Unltod

Sca6s Government.

5. According to Source of paragraph 2, Subject was a war

correspondent in China during World War Il for Newsweek. In July

1945. he wao rejused entry into China by Chinese Nationalist authorities,

presumably a a regult of enti-Nacionaligt articles he wrote for Newe-

week, la 1949 Subject was Special Features Ealtor for thai magailne,

at 152 Heat 42nd Street, New York City.. He was the author of several

booke, Including No Pcaco in Asia and The Tragedy of the Chinese

Revolution.

'Subject's present political beliere are unknown to thie office.

Encl: 1 name check

RID/CE: JMA/DS/1pm

Based on: SODB-20568

6R039 1

Entend they satnath

SECRET

NO FOREIGH DISSEH

---

## Page 43

14-00000

HUNT

ISACS; Herlod Robort

ISHAKS

Maвa'i2

DD 10-5

Kraes woed c.

PAR O5 WEtLST

P MESST

E..

1 900s

FELUROJO

i! FB

DMS

tr 48

14 SEP 1905

226-63

NbvXar 2-22-19

USA

parsibes 50ref 52473

FILE IN 201=18446*:

1 5 : EP 1965

201-15446

---

## Page 44

14-00000

SECRET

(ahen fellant fay

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF

DOCUMENT

IUENTIFICATION

Suspected Soviet Agents domlelled in

Shahghai

RI FILE NO.

s. oispnich on

CIT NA-GI AOP-L

SMP-D 4718

Box 293

7. SOURCE CRYPTONENLO: DATE OF INFO.

a. DaTe

EVALUATION

ANALYST.

JEP

A. DATE PROCESSIO

10. DISSCMINATEC IN

3. Doc. 1963

DOCUMENT

DISPOSITION.

DATE

CROSS REFERRIO TO THIS PILE

TRANSFERRED TO

AI FILE MO:

PERTINENT INFORMATION.

Interested partios in the subjcet of HAROLD ISAACES are referred to this document

The bulky nature of this document plus numerous refs to other individuals and the

poor quality of paper this makes it necessary to leave the file in its present

classification.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

261 - 18446

8-37

867

SECRET

---

## Page 45

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERMAL

I: * ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING: AND RECORD SHEET. 27

SECRET

ai 63

SUBJECT, (Optionall

FROM,

its

RID/CE

FE

1O: (OMine donginarion, icon avabor, and

bailding)

Japan

DATE

RICO

gWD'D

201..

OPFICIA'S

INITIALS

DATE

22 November 1963

to atom.

CI STAFF. 2C 35

2.

KID/AN GA 50

Red/MIS

R

TO: ACSI (Telephonto)

9.

10.

!.

12..

13.

14.

15.

RID/FI 1B 4003

FORN

1 DEE 3S 610 USE PREVIOUS

RDITIONS

FILE TITLE

SECRET

FILE NUDER

201-18446

ENCLOSURE

ROSTRATY

CONFIDENTLAL

DOCUMENT DATE E7

Nov

1963

INT LOLAL

USE BALY

INDEX

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 46

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGH DISSEM

27 NOV 1963

TO:

Magistant Chlef uf Staff, Intolligence

Department of the Army

ArrantIon:. Chloi, Counterintolligonco

Branch Security Division

FROM:

Deputy Diroator, Plans

SUBJSCT: ISAACS, Harold Robert

lEnd

Roference 10 mado to tho request recolved on

14 Octobor 1983

frow Lt.

ihipple conceraing Subjoct.

91th respact to tho specifio questiong posud in the

request, Eubjoct 1a tho author of a numbar of books,

IncLUdIng NO PEROe In ABla,

Five Yoars of Kuomintang

Reaction, and Too tragedy of tho chinoso lovolution.

Tha files contain no

Information

concerning Subjoct's

tenching at the Massachusetta Institute of Tochnology,

howevor thoy do contain

the following sumnary of un-

evaluatod information basod on sovoral prodovessor

organisation raports. Additional Infornation concern-

ing Subjock 16 contained in our SODB 20588, dated 2

Decenter 1949, subjoct: Harold Robert ISAOS, a COpY

of which is attachod for your rotoution.

subject was omployed as a stalf urItex for

the Havas Nows Agoncy In Shanghal frou 1930-1835.

He vas also editor and publisher of the China Porun,

inspeellied dato.

publishod the above cited Plve Years of Kuomintany

Reaction, & 136-page illustrated book of Communiet

nature.

While ln Shanghal he.uas a member of The

socloty of Iriends of the USSR (Shanghad Branch)

and The China League los Civil Rights.

In 1933 Shanghad authorities listod Subject'g

iSO, TOlA HOBINSON, ad a suspact Boylet agent rom

siding in Shanghai.

Soptonbor 1932, ISAACS atatod in a lotter to disa

ROBINSON that he had dofinitely tureed "Red."

A11.

tho moebers of the ROBINSON family vera described as

СатипІвкв.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

CS COPY

301-18446

Enlisted (179 829394;

Imageaby: 88

48212р.960.773

FILE IN 201-18446-

---

## Page 47

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

c. In July 1931 tho Nanking Government ordorod

she lamicipality of Groator Shanghal to tale drastio

measuras to stop the propaganda appoaring in a

nuader of publications

Including tho China Porm,

publissed by subjuct.

Subjoct's magazine allegodly

published Cosmuntet propaganda; in tale cannoctios a

protass vas to bo lodgod against hla u1th tha Amorican

cansulato..

d. Bubjeat us deseribed as a "self-confossod

Cassan Lat!" 1n 1933.

The following your he wroto an

•article entitlod "I Break Hith The 'Chinese Staliniate»

vulca appoarod in the septeaber October 1931 odition

"Of The New

в соннилів! ргорадало

2.

An undated report fron an unknown source indicated

that Subject had turnod againat tho Stalinist Government

of the usss, boconing a Tiotskylte probably during the mid-

1930 ' 3).

Friunds

of subject stated that even during the

holgat of his. Trotakylst caroor he nevor accepted monoy

from any group.. that ho was oper and above board, and thai

ho nover engagod in any conspiracios to overthroy establiahed

govornnent.

indy also stated that subjoct was addracted to.

Communies by "shoor idoalian."

Immediatoly aftor Poarl

Harbor, ISAACS broke with the Trotsisylte ghoup as he had

with she Communists and began ariting propaganda

for the infted States Govornuent.

According to a report dated 25 Juno 1951 from a

fairly

reldable bourco,

Bubject sorod at that time as a

Formiation advisor on For Bastera projects.

for addisional Iniormation concernlug Subject you

219

raferred to the Federal Bureau of Investigation

and to

the Dopartsent of the Navy (no documentation arallable).

CBC1-3/778, 860

Bnal! 1 attachment as stated above.

RID/CF: JHA/M1/dcl

Based on:

FE/1, 201-184469

CHINA CIA

OP 1, SMPD 2713,

10-11-32

CHINA CIA OP 1, SHPD

4606,

16-5-33

CHINA CIA OP 1,

SHPD 4718

CHINA CIA OPI, SHPD 4685 & 4685/C

CHINA CIA OP 1,

SMPD 5454-8,21-12-33

CHINA CIA OP 1,

SMPD: 6628

FDZ, 201-488-8

SO for NAVY referal:

SEGRET

FEREIGH DISSES

ПОЛЕТАВА

1

---

## Page 48

4-00001

166383

esci 3/778,550

7404

AHOL

FE

ACSI - Lt. Whipple via Jane Roman

Moran

1.477

14 Oct 63

ISAACS, Harold Robert:

born 1910

URIER LIERTLESLIO UNIA

Kizernichs

Author of many books on china - 8. 3. A81a

Harold R.Isaacs authority on China

Harold R. Isaace teaches at MIT

are all the names the same person?

Cra NG 1353

DIY.

BRANCH

фоло

FE.

FE

X! EDTIOR

tu 1r

т2

fred.

ES COPY

Ende 1

110/ 327106)

201-18446

2r: 18446 *-

---

## Page 49

4-00000

SECRET

1 Ban

fil lad los

DOCUMENT TRAMSFER AND

SUOSLEY OF DOCUMLET

CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IOENTIFICATION

10112: 37

DOCUMENT

CROSS AGARARCO TO, THIS TILE

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC.

P: SOUACE CRYPTONIN O. DATE OF INFO

TO. DISSEMIMATCO IN

TI. DATE

DISPOSITION

11S.. PRAUSTRRRCO TO

R 1

PILE

NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

IVALUATION

THERE IS A RESTRICIEO CI/CA FOLDER CN TLE SUBJECT

OF THiS 202 IBL0 055 01 5-2.37.

01908-151149

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

"45

4.446

T.O RM

До 98

867

SECRET

17 - 181

---

## Page 50

4-00000

SECRET

(shan l,1lad en)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECI.OF

DOCUMENT

Ritato Carial sriral

Rigants, Ahajes

AMALYST

SZA

DATE PROCESACO

20 OCT 1965

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

CROSS REFERREO TO THISPILE

18.

TRANSFERRED TO

RI. FILE NO.

DOCUMENT

IUENTIFICATION

AL FILE NO.

16-5-16

DISPATCH DA SOUACE DOC.

STUBOL NO.

ONHA - 12913

DATE

Efinita

T. SOUACE CRYPTONINTO, DATE Of INTO.

Ev.

UATIO

o fario in

I8. DATE

PERTINENT INFORMAL 19M

H. K. ISAACS

Aviced Crimint, Anapital of Workey

fu the toniter aid the dis,

FILE THIS

FORM IN FILE NO.

86%

SECRET

201-18446

17.201

---

## Page 51

4-00000

175)

CROSS FILED EY

FILE J.

50 - 5237

SUBJECT

ABSTRAT OF DOORDIT DEING CROSS FILED

1908÷8

CI/CH

DATE.

ISCS, BiR LO Fo

Sors - 1910 - nitionality - Marican

PERTINENT INFORMATION

26185

TYERS. IS A RESTRICTED CI/DA FOLDER. ON THE SUBJECT OF

TEIS 201 HELD IN RI/AR FILE, WASH-CIA-FERS-4.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE RO.

CROSS REFERENCE FORM

коны мо.

AUO SA

137 ACALACES ROOM 30-30

MICH MAY

or USED.

1.981

---

## Page 52

4-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

(SECRET

INSERUCTIONS: Ollico den graliane angule de usal in eno "TO" esiuma.

Unsor ach cornmont a line ahould ta dravon across aboar

and each comment numtered lo correspond arts the nur ber in lho "TO" cOvera

Cain ollicar should inilial (chock mard inautficiano

belore further routing.

This Routing and farord Sheet should to returned la Ragister,

PROM:

RI/ANALYSIS

DA 17

iPK--48

"то

NE

TOLDHON

cOMMeNTy

поі

• = MAY 19E5

(0g

Fricause

illi

c1K

Neto

Net

2 0 ANG 1956

10.

1a RI/FI

21

610

1409

MAY MUNA

SECRET

or 28 toy of wollen

can Y ll

TH!S

Crot

20

ABSTRACT

INDEX

DATE

Is thy to

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLASSIFIED

peas

---

## Page 53

4-00000

MA .

DISPATCH NO. -.MPX-A-4284

SECRET

TO

Chicf, NEA

DATE

5. May 1256

FROM

_ Chios of station, Karachslurß

I GENERAL

SUBICT I sricInc

Oporational/INTEL

Far Eastern Association &th Annual Mosting,

Request for Baciground and Operational Information

1.

The program of the 8th Annual lecting

of the Far Pastern

Association, held in Philiulphia 3 - 5 Aprll 1956,

has

just

arrived here. It indicatos that the association has alrcedy

taken

docided steps towards its announced expansion into the

South Asian fleld. The station assumes that Headquarters

covered tho mooting and can get access now or later to coples

of monographs, notes on procedings, and so on.

2.

The following ltems,

be of interest to this sia ton it headquarteou can get thous

B.

C.

? May 1956

NRH/ WT:

Distributlons

5

NEA

2 - Karachi

•Croto: Ihis is quite likely the last Punjabl,

but it should have some validity for Lahoro as

well as for Delti.)

On the same day

a Pakistan Studies Organizatior

rieeting

was hoid at 1700.

It would be useful to

know who is interested in Pakistan studies (both

individuals and organizations) and what lines.

they aro thinking of working on.

all the itens. öf a "South Asian 1119-

cellany"

particularly:Stanler

arly: Stanle? aron's ithe Futurrest East:

Bengal™

Hydocker has some early drafts of the

Harold Isaacs study,

but they

are too early to

should mont-

tor closely,. however.

NEIL. R. HYDECKER

ASTITTCATK

ni CORN 78-62-2121

---

## Page 54

4-00000

7OF SEGRET

nico, 1955"

TOs

Dicetos

_attontions

Daputy Diroctor, Plena

jr. So J. Fapseil

I. Foforonco 1a medi to a commmicutlua siva tili Azuncy

untral :30 figuat 1955; coptional da abuto, our radosanca is 61-242.

ditschod los your licoration lui copy of a lotlor

britton ly bubject ud cduroanod to dio post nifico las cuntionod

in tis scloronced comradha.

iho lotter wus signed ly mubject au

Fülil, his fosinira paradiong..

It should also lo expininod that

Linglon is not subject'u nativo languaco; tharoforo, tia. cretar

an upalling ucod ly subjort ln l1o loitars do to to expoctor.

3. Thiu offico interprota mibjucco Lottor so follouis.

do sunt Josepula lo jose beneato, witli won sulloct lna

boon in contact the pest voveral dont wal bio les boch inoctii-

ratlog cubject with loftlot sacology. lallonG bro not cavitied to

oubjact that ho lu a communist, altich in his convurutiona with

cubject bo oticko vory closo to tho curont linó of tho fiulipalso

Cumminist Farty (FEP).

Do Harold ISLICS (FUI PLe 10. 100 204213) 13 voll known

to tha burociü.

Unclo MaiDEL 1o proschly. tho leto failipolu uaidant

taquel curd, uho uponsorci joco Listic's ontry into the laited.

states in 1937 voon Lashio stulled at Coludlo Univoroity.

Willian ChaTt, Jr. has not sot boon Muntilial by thla offico.

d.

PLILILIC, frU 1U probably DE. FLiadUlta PAGLILTO,

forter Associate

"otossor,co tacianicy de tho Caitorolts oi tho

Pai l1ppinas.

PIALILIO recoivod dio BiE Iros tie Unlocroity oi tho

Failipplas and lila Mos. and Phal. at tho Univoraity of Micklgai.

.. COP ARe 09033

JON,

→1-18446

---

## Page 55

TE,Y SECRET

rutoi culo to comicioly romiguco lo pallianto lito citar lui'

11v0u 1i1 tha Unitod Staios.

rIcuo col cecarului to courco proscalo iu croatedt duaio lo lo

rusido peszanantly in teo United statui.

Alticigi 16 15 known. that

that iu chiarod misticio politleal vlowo.

5. isicAl lo probably Falbar Däldiii, jocudt Cuolain

s. ¡ypros us uprua Unvoralty sor posaluly le syracuca

Untvorülte.

.

paparian sho say allegodly cocociatod with larry billors in tio

intorniatlonai longatarorono anl durchoucesando Union (Ii) 11

Lunoluli.

Wass basitori ou 5. Bas1l 1915 10 Pallag bevovor, sost

•di ilo 1ifo leo baos cront la davall.

ultican in l0us era roturan to tha Pallippinou in 1941a ubero ka

lout ita U.s. citlaanatig in 1952.

Thoru is to

intoreation ir tho

culou of thia ofrica which idicatoa that Ware hau roturrou to

hivail.

tor ciditibusi luorention concernira inca, raiuscico 1c

mio to a consiraaina to tio Burouu, datou 23 Povorsar 1949,

cibfoots

"niceido Lissi (ela liceido livel)", our rosoronco 50 Limi050%.

ho inclo tua 13 lian CUYCO21, Unclo ULiTEü is Lalicaas

curtea vita scon tha surcou lu foalilai du a toult cs provicus

correspondonco cercarnine lin dorator, carion Jera cullik (231

V1O T0. 105-325021 Fros tho bording 0f Faujoct's Lottor Chio

afflos abrizio thai Daltocar CUYvûRt 10 chaiu tat da Foloral

muonu of luvostiGemon lu trioctigatino lor curtul.

apponia that Balter CurleAl dayu cubjoet a lutter to dolivoi

porconallo lo dila tuther tor curius, possibly to avoid e tall

intorcopt by tie Dirutai.

It clould bo notad trat subjoci atalad

tist bo muilni thi loctor inacond.

4. In vior di tho contitivonaci of tho sourco of the eboro

Infortation, le 10 puruoatad that no furtier diegoalnation la sodo

of tho inforzation uitlout prlos cloarasco ilta tula lgoncy.

CS CE2733

tipieti:

listria:

TÚP SECHE.

-?.:.

11500a:

201. 1.910116

---

## Page 56

FBI DOCUMENTS AS FOLLORS:

DATE:

26 MAY 1955

CLASSIFICATION:

COSFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: HAROLD ROBERT ISAACS

FBI. FILE #: 100-256213 (BUREAU)

DATE: 19 MAR 1954

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

HAROLD ROBERT ISAACS

FBI FILE #: 100-256243

(BUREAU

EXXXYSXXXXNX*&X

27 JAN 51

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: LIU TSUN-CH'I (M) AKA

T.C. LIU, LAU CHIN-KI

FBI FILE #: 100-365280 (BUREAU)

---

## Page 57

SECRET

Pilled (n)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

IDENTIPICATION

* LIU TSUN-CH!I

RI FILE NO.

201-43745

DISPATEN

DO SOLACE DOC. SYMBOL

мо.

-30141

• SOUNCE CRYPTONINA, DATE .OF INTI

DATE

24_00p2853

CVALUATION

ANALYST

A. CROSS REFEARIO TO TMIS TILE

DATE PROCASSED

1O. DISSCMINATIO IN.

3 Doc. 63

DOCUMENT

DISPOSITION

19.

TRANSECARLO.TO.

RI FILE AD.

DATE

PERTINENT INFORMALION

Comments made by. Francis. NcCracken Fisher

Fisher also recalled that sometime after the

arter 1950,

he Fisher,

subject had

gone ovor the Communists

met Harold Isaacs, a writer who forterly was

&

Trotskyto

in His

views,

at which time

Ianacs advised Floher thaht he had brown that sublect was a Commurtiat

as early as the 1930°g In Pekins: China.

Isaacs stated that the subicet had worked for

the Tass News Agency in Poking after having graduated far colèege and had evern

bbeen sent tó jaol due to his communist actives.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201-184+6

8-81

867

---

## Page 58

14-00000

FBI DOCUMENTS AS FOLLOWS:

DATE:

26 MAY 1953

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: HAROLD ROBERT ISAAC

FBI FILE #: 100-286213 & (BUREAU)

DATE:

18 FEB 53

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

HAROLD ROBERT ISAACS

FBI FILE #: 100-286243

(BUREIU)

DATE:

12 NOVE 52

CLASSTFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT':

HAROLD ROBERT' ISAACS

FBI FILE #: 100-286213

(BUREAU)

---

## Page 59

SECRET

fellas 8n1

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

RI FILE NO.

VOLUMENT

LOERIIFICATICN

200-21212-1

counce vuE.

мо.

Ехії л.

roTe

5rdet 52

EVALUATION

CROSS. REFERRED TO THIS FILE

O. DATE PROCESSIO

ПЕкло

то:

DISSCUINATEO IN

DOCIMENT. DISPOSITION

18.

TRANSPERREO TO

RI. PILE nO.

PERTINENT INFORMATLON

DATE

* propaganda rupe letterte

"The Chinese cunhers Crespondence "addersal to

the China Journ.

FILE THIS

FORM IN FILE NO.

20181446%

• -9!

867

SECRET

---

## Page 60

4-00000

SECRET

I Men

f.al108 8n)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DECUATENT

IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

*70-7-21211

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC: SURPOL NO.

not thei

sinal flier deles

Exel. 23

1. SOURCE CRYFTONYM

DATE OF PArO.

DATE PROCESSED

1O. OISSIMIMATEO IN

1I. DOTE

Pluice.

DArC

3104t52

EVALUATION

I%. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

OCCUMENT

DISPOSITION

1g.

TRANSFERRED TO

FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

Quits copy f Apecial Edition if China Trum called

спету е.

= FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201-184467

#= 70

867

a 88

SECRET

---

## Page 61

SUBJECT

OF

DOCUMENT

Bernal Willoughligo Felio-

SECRET

11108 to.

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

RI FILE NO.

20c-

• DISPATCH DR SOUNCE DOC.

IDENTIFICATION

7-

SYMOOL NO

Enrcll'8

212

=1

DATE

38 Cet52

EVALUATION

O.. DATE PROCESSIO

deans Merma

CROSS RETERRED TO THIS FILE

30.

DISSEMINATEO IN

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION:

RI FILE NO.

I8. DATE

report a

CWC, Val. 4, 110.13,13.4.34

hoith tochow coad, dieal

fun and excite eque in he a dug e

March 1934=

the publication chech was Altained from a

confidential cored a deles there"

pret, addried * ISAACS as shove

#FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201-18446

0-37

867

SECRET

---

## Page 62

4-00000

FBI REPORT

DATE:

6 OCTOBER 1952

CLISSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIIL

SUBJECT:

JOHN KING FAIRBANK

FBI FILE #: 77-24341 (BUREAU)

---

## Page 63

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

SECRET

(Then 801108 80)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

260-7-212-1

DISPATOM OF

sOURcE. DoC::giMOOL NO.

DATE OF iNTO.

DATE PROCESSED

1. DATE

DATE

EVALUATION

IZ: CROSS MITENNIO. TO THIS FILE

1o..

DISSCMIMATED IN

DOCUMENT. DISPOSITION

TRANSFERAED TO

FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION:

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

301-184467

867

SECRET

18.080)

---

## Page 64

FBI REPORT

DATE:

26 MAY 1952

CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJ:

GEORGE HERRING, WAS:

RING, PAUL RUEGG

FBI FILE #:

100-311906 (BUREAU)

---

## Page 65

SECRET

folles 8?1

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJICT OF DOCUMENT

Hu this stone Occinkl

STEIN

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

391-51

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC, DIMBOL

DATE

TROUNCE NETON TO DIE Or INTO.

...

1a0.52

IVALUATION

AMALYST

CROSS ARTERRLO TO THIS PILE:

• DATE PROCESSED,

го.

DISSEMINATED INI

i BEt. 65

•DOCUMENT. DISPOSITION

IS- TRAMBFENREO TO

RI FILE NO.

FI. DATE

*PERTINENT INFORMATION

singapis compandit in fleei reund

1930 Д 19.32.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

20111841416

8-37

867

SECRET

17. 461

---

## Page 66

4-00000

SUOJICT OF DOCUMENT

Afres Soilay, was.

AMALYST

jap

CROSS-ASPSARCO TO THIS PILG

SECRET

(Bon Fs1108 In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

COCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

"RI FILE NO.

201-442

TISPAICA DO

BOURLE DOC.

-16151

T. SOUREr CRYPTONYM D.

DATE OF INPO.

•. DATE PROCABALO

1O: DISSEMIMATEO IN

1.. DATE

21 Novo 63

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

1s.

TRANSTENRLD TO

FILE

но.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

DATI

5. Маг.а 52

EVALUATION

According to coffidential Informant. I-17, of unkomn rellability, Agnes

amedley attempted to ortain fron the American Expregs Ço. In Shehghai certain matl

addressed to Harold R. Isaaes while Isaacs was arsent from the city. One of

the return addresses on this mall was Smith and Isaacs, 3ll East I49th Streed

Boonx, New Tork. Harold R. Issacs, mention above, was identifled by I 17 as

an American Journalist of Coumuntat sympathies who resised in Shahghal In the Barly

thirties.

• FILE THIS FORAN IN

FILE NO.

501-18.446

Д. 57

867 00e 000.

SECRET

---

## Page 67

SUBULCE OF DOCUMENT

AGNES SUEDLEY,

ANALYST

JER

CROSS REPERACO TO THIS PTER

SECRET

(Mon

Fold

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND

CROSS REFERENCE

DUCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

201-414

DISPATCH ON

SOURCE DOC.

SYMBOL

NO.

-16129

I. SOURCE CArPTONINa. DATE OF IMPO.

DATE PROCESSED

NO. OISSEMINATEO IN

3. Deca. 63

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

IJ.

I1.. DATE

TRANSTERRCO TO.

AI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORNATION

•. DATE

Ji Faba 52

•EVALUATION

Subject of tho document 1s mentiored as laving visited the residence of Harold R.

raka Laaacs and C. ?8 Frank Glass, two notorious local Communits sympathisers.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

8-58

867

SECSET

801718446

18.101

---

## Page 68

FBI REPORT

DATE: 31 JAN.

52

CLASS:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJ :

TILLMAN,

DURDIN

FBI FILE #: 105-15218 (BUREAU)

---

## Page 69

14-00000

SECRET.

(tron dollards)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER ANE. CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

IDA FRANCES TREAT BERGERET

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

201-87587 6202

DISPATCH CO SOURCE DOC: SIMBOL NO.

-2W411

Р-ЗООПСЕ СПУРУСНУМЯ

DATE. OF INFO.

ANALYST

JOP

1E: 69038 REFERDID TO THIS FILE.

DATE PROCESSIO

10- DISSEMIMATRO IN

3 Dec.

63

DOCUMENT

DISPOSITION

19.

TRANSTERDIO:TO

DATE.

PERTINENT IMECRVATIOM

Subject remembers neetint HAROLD'R. ISAACS, an American Jounnalist, at a party

at the home of Madame SUN YAI SEN.

DATE

12 Feb. 52

IVALJATION

FILE- THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201-18416

D.58

867 - 98

SECRET

1.11.

---

## Page 70

4-00000

IT 2 Đ7

CONFIDENTITO:

RESTRiCTIO.

Face

ROUTING ANd rECORD SHELT

INSTRUCTIONS. - Orrer driignations should be aned in the "TO" column.

Untre coes corament a line should be distun

asees and each ranamene numbered le coriarind with ihe number in the "TO" ralurn.

Rach other shoutd taitlal

(chart mark Insullistent) before further routine.

This Rocord and Routing Shert should be returned to Regiotry.

FROM:

SCE 438341

та

ялом.

DATE

DICTATO

ete

16e3

Al i

STC/51B

MAR 1 € 1952

•CONSOLICATION EFFECTED

BY

444-

STC/ICB

12

19.

16 2 19/100

1.::114

F: 12:352

trait

15

5. 1

51-9

FREE

RESTRICTED

CONFIDENTIAL

10-20018-1

---

## Page 71

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

18064395

Office Memorandim WUNITED STATES COVERNMENT

TO

a pilos, st

DATA ÷03:90 TY 1302

-==

SUBJEGA CE Intor,=2!

1.

Dilaso! 1e

to Girletira sele:en

Julia.

provally tili

a essen

2÷1a1d-1:9

---

## Page 72

14-00000

1

CC..

cie ties

229931

A ha; py eritre, has boen urillan in tho erao of terria lass,olsan,

sorar consuntol sho 13 non premienry of tha corara noce lomersal dompitel

lio has beon pralard in inoluton for diselasir lla icemurlos

parto; all hla board of airootora has votad coniluanco in lla end coreeriod

2.

No dount all this la fittini and propor lut 1i doonn't anorar tho

queathon of miy nobaly in donver. aneas to hara knom arrehini abot

Aptolano fue-tinod part, or aty clero nas antrin: acracional about Mia

rorolation of le in vasiuniton.

dillo tho pollon resco 13 richely, analioma

to Anortonn cllisena, 1i siria smarkablo thint orrielal rcoorda arould not

bo 11 exlácenco and ruasonatly aocossallo to propio mich mason to choox up

•an juan a point as prot Corrurios sorr100.

The polnt about Appalmni lo not that ha dud agtir: particularly

roprehenalblo, lit chat, irat ha du mao quico in eso aun.

Acoordins to thi

reshliton tontiaony bo serond the comuntat parti, apierriely michout

aptadal conconimone, In Runnía, Germany and octer poines in Lurojo, roing.

arounil tho xorlu botaren 1924 and 1931i.

lo souilit to rolleva iv and

Grace branlch in the oultorship os a shinches ta:llan-in uno comirlot

raias1so,

"The volco of intra".

1n 193% l9 tostlido, tuit dida't sot oss

'sla alp in shanghas becauno of tha hastilltico thero at tho llos.

This obola saretiane os a llite on eha eupirograly sonriens and

rutinas comuniat oparntiorit throu:;lout tho worlu.

I saza in sharihal shon

fliglitsor, broko out there borricon dujnn ni blina an Aui. 2i, 243%, nnd can

robley that no ni three nonche of dirimione unrfaro beforo the crurpalgo

soTed inland.

irine that porlod a 100d many proplo lose for obrious

reasono, lut sono camo in,

arid 1t wiiht lei pregumod that an accroditad

agent of International corinton rould al lenat havo prusei in neruy tobo

or Hortong ull chinis calmer com a little.

ross1blythe.comunlatg.org

se subjoot to qualis about personal saloty as ungone alsainos soro so.

So About "The Voloo of Chinn" thare coull hardly lo uny silusion 1n

tho sisd of anyono sho tul caroù to pry tho oll-litost resentian to 1t.

Lach tonio baro a virtual advertisoment of lla comunise allerlanco on 1to

frant cover, to thois farillar vith mttoil of convoratri. Chilnoso trto

Engl13ho

Tho naso "Volco of china" appoarad in both tuillas und dilnoso,

ani in tho chinoso a moullar sovetorrinatol ayaten os Rusanlzation vas

used do that that la oruinarily, ly consontional talo ayuter, uritton

"chung la" for china man apelled "chun lun"- an extranilnary offeat

trankly exjulalins tho publicacion's omoralip.

6.: Dut that sas noro, linrola Toarca, the editor tho precodod ta

granichos, had dono considorably more llan una conroyal by presa. dispatabes

•son tha rashlarton houringa of the House Un-umrlean Acilultios Connitcoo.

naso aeld ho uas "bellevod to havo deviatou fras taranlo" polley" nhorea

In 1a08 ha aballongod osth the Chinado Cormulato asd thatt toscoi patrons

---

## Page 73

14-00000

•2 .

1:9

conpletely nilh as arielo headal "I irral alls serlnira..

dils caro a

crallu aluediacion of lsa lannurt finnnelal tackir: of the "jolco of

adino dà is arunsa ailor an er ait of officisi Illo had prerlously

aurferal any Illusions as lo 1i9 intiro, Inters' ariclo bllains 0l00-

uhore dun in tho "iodi, of courso coresrig abrult haro diapollad those.

%..

The lirarleno ana to hava lived quietly la shorilal anal pero l1etlo

known;

Much uniler the circuitinero mas hirily aurirlaln; since thny vora

runitri an abriaisly casinlat or.in.

•Minni: dai-gilo farors caulil nos

souillo with than gerty, for a that ino shan dal das an incarrational

city onorstad unles enricheritoriality.

tie the dilmallat purct rolloo

did aroglo amno troublo fer tho

"Volra" ail tina ionsul termi Clarenco do

-Unga was allo:mily rririsinted by tho

state Thirtant in lị37 for not

dolni, moro to hola thra as arericars, Inchrically ta- moro antitled to

fill Anorion provecion. dit laus, non tilt the irport isport hank li

rashtniton, Uo üo, mas a sort of Old Cumuleon os the shanjhal Asorloan

aarumuntty and lt soma tras ha chouint 1t hla soral afillra-ion to loc thei

sy in any troublo they mutt sou Into as lammerlos aiches. lauss den'o

havo aufforod rrnatly. cor tils in tlio oyna of his sportoro, for ho sno

Labor promotod lo ariassaiar both to China and to dusiralia.

Theo backaround les sann prasant importilina since an Arorionn

anjanine 1e being ojarated tolay in Camundat Sherisas, pulas toloratos no

critician or opjasizion. Oririnally pro-liationalist undor the lato:....

do Ba, lonell, "l has boon solenilly toni the iccinists unier hla non;

John willar •uriell, and de atayed on altor nose our Antious oniorprlana→

Incline in dally Singins averin: dont and traurt; odlial by syroll had

Roforo they dopertal, croso officinda dal recion to corpilo an

exconstro filo on t'at li non the cluna

man. Anaident atiloh

1n lions to hava triou this tina the ilavinn treasons of the nase os

Fillias 011vo,

American consular official, In tino mister of 1049 soon aftor

tho Communints had taken our.

Clive bliunlorot Snio a trafflo confliot meth

tha Cormular pollo, as trien to first one and lies a arcond polloo

atalion, and in tho courso of soviral layo liprisoront ho min sercroly

beaten with flato ind giabutts, kiciend an otherule sul lentel.

romill's

Rovion blindly professed to havo liutlo Incormicion on tha mailer but rave:

an account unfavorablo to clito.

thon connilar afficiäls asted FORTIl tO

cano to the consulala and 100k aliva over and pet sis null niors, he callad

to shon up.

Th1s. and ottar naltera nore recordal in bonn de.al?

but in nois

of the background of American intolliience operilion, one sey question -

uhothor thoso dotaila ulul aror be haulad ous of cha filoo.

10. ora recortly, carlos os tho horimi havo boen alanted ot rorily

arainst. tha deertains anl the United liatione causo 1a Jaras and ona lague

odiçortally apolo of the Unlead statos as "cha ancay... Il ahould not bo

dersoult to provervo contlaulty la calionini duas a asso as larican

pro-Corruntes aotitity abroad, thougti nouring could da dane to Porall intose

CC..

---

## Page 74

14-00000

(Vi

or tell ho doutdod to rocurn lo rio omn onintryand aran eras, tra

corlex naturo of imrion lona on e!us inniral aubjoot nako de hari to

tril that could ho dono soldo iron perhajo denyin: ans: her passport lo go

•airand agalri

11i Tho important Ulra, do siom by a lou, lot of garoa pravoly

trostiratod by conquinton! onalitons, la to lavo lia pastiar contral

Incalliganco Anoy or some caparable sroup such as tho faioral Dureau of

Inrosessarion koop track of chu malch or inforantion availabla.

Too siah

¡asta astart gone lito the many dupillaationa or incrulry.

.!::

1..

!.

16)

-—

an, a--...

---

## Page 75

4-00000

SOFTOENTIAL

EXCUSTY INTORLLATION

DIE 4555

ris:09. 3: 69 c, 153

disre Elas

7. dooruery 1258

es troopass: 19050-10117106 ionelsone os ls sationali la chloa

Prolosod la a oopy of an artiela previrod for siblicallon la

to Gir101119 5010-c0 1011905

by a forsor miltor of the staschas

probadly mill

not do jupiland vocauso of dia roast.

COPY

- 128.

CONFIDEMTIAL

---

## Page 76

14-00000

r.

OFFICIAL!

DISPATCH

AA?

SPACIRT AID ON SIA POUCH

DISPATCH NO.

CLASSIFICATION

o Pobereasy 1958

DATE;.

TO

FROM.

ador, 13

Attastestate (2) 8aD930t 81 S0at (8 coples)

BRAMAN'T

VORT AMON

originators.

JohA

Lo Witaleb

COORDIMATIMO OFFICER

AUTMENTICATING OFFICEN

John chrislaw.

FB,/B/SO

ALRASIME OFFICIA

LLOYD GEORiE

chief, FE

CLASSIFICATION

19008

то.

0 8

-17.5

---

## Page 77

14-00000

263 1813, Sangal Lurelpel Ploo; 91)ad 16-4-2-37

I841G3, Herald Bobert

latropius

BOsO

-23 Sopt 1920, 1070

1295S0an

Bulld .

http:wt.blocs,ravyibrushod back

brot

OCUNERZATION

In 30g nao traveling oss pasaport $ 177026

Arrivad In China fron Mantla on L0 Deo 1930

Upin of artlval Joinad the oditortal staff of the Shanghal suning Post and

herourgo

MAa A SeCTOLArY al thO MOULINS Defenso Cessilteo and a nombor of the Soofety of

Pretada at tho USE

On 12 June 1931, ISACS and iãa Plend MASS took a trip up the InstagesDuring

tale trip ISAACS mento lis flanco, "lola KOBLiSON, that ho had dooldud to telen " Rods

23 A rasult of conversations tith CLIST.

The two roturod to Snanghu In sug 1939 and toak up residedoo de $ 228 Metralmos

184193 Inter startod nad becano the oditor and publlahas of the a China Parm"

oh at first man Job-printed but fron Oot 1932 on has printad by tho Laval Publiah.

1ng Got T8C) # 33, Lang 478 Flandang Road, Shanghail ISCS openedly orated he mao mas-

:ager of the printlig do and eued ta of 1ta sinarad.

^. p

On 7 Aug 1933; ISAbS and 21s u1fe Viola ROBINSON whas he had married ini Sopt

1932 1083 Shanghal for Japan ra the 35 Hagagald Haru: On lo Aug, they pracooded

to Japan, noturalas to shanghat on Aug 26td

Note co to do for at tried As era er eye st the fare one

Da DEs 1939, I911çS was in Poochos to gather lot hand into no the serly farzad

"Pealplate Bovolutionary Government of lbs Rejiblio as Calra:".

• In the sprlas of 1934, ISUGS and do gilo lait for Mentala en route so Pukles

at mich cily ho rosidod

at d 3 Tung fu Chis Pao, East City, Foidng enliung addreas

---

## Page 78

On 3 JEnuety 192e, ISMALS Mastou lr and NTO. MOLISiS Milie they enio an a

Inugar etrike in prtoon

On I; Jamary 1936;: the parenta of ISICS, Mr and Mro I.Hi, ISIICS artirod 10

Slunghat Iran Loa Angolan: During their stoy in Blangial they maided at the Morro

pal. llutal Anne: On 20 February Wey loft Shingial for Port Suld en routo to bargellios

em. tha 39 Realpladl$....

On 4 ATx12 1936, ISANÇ3 under the pon sano of lo sen had en artsolo publisbod 1

no Hon Militants tho organ as to BY Dlotriel Morker a Farty, The artiale vas a

allocis on grills and 'so entitled " stallatera roady to embraco Chian Lal Shekora

•O'fleor Calnodd Rod Army la rotin for resurroution of disasterous: 1927 blood".

At tiLa BRnO CliO, ISAACS nee ainO locturiag on Japan, China, and tho UseR and tha

Mar Cristo ln tha Yar Esote

=: 14p-4.

"8.;

---

## Page 79

5 elay

Gliss

Li Shanghal Hand Polle o PIles; 1110d, 16-42 37, D2

In Shanghal GLASS sado the acquatitanca of one Daureo CBS33, Marican Troa

Kansas City, born 1693.9his wis 80no tle aftor Apral 1932;

= Coall Prack Quiss.

Bota

:25 Haran 1901; Birnbighes; ingland

British pasapart, # 94153, Losued 5 Jan 1931 1a Protorto, Sotta arria

pal refillation lunber or the Cr

•Belteved to have laft ingland lu tau early 1920s fos South Africa there ho resided

8 Jobennesburg for many fears:

wined 1n Shingaal fron Dertes May 1931

On 12 June 1931 nade a trip taranga up the lengedoe lengtese with Harold Is l

Artean Cormudet and anton for the oditor of the chin Forin. A lotter irittaa by

ISi: CS to hia ¿lancoo, Hlos VIola ROBINSON, during this trip contained inporeloa

Diat ISlACS had docidod to turn "Red" as a rosult of his convorsation nith Glass,

In Gopi: 1932, CLass bedesia a menber of the villa Delense camittoon and tao

sanths läter was appointed Shanglini Rapreseitative of the Angloiolatic 1 alagrash

gencylingas+a) 806119 agonoy mithHe in 1 rola, which position be hold ustll 1933.

La maz s, he mas 11rng in foo 510,4 1270,10rth Ssochuen Road, Gharighal

---

## Page 80

TOS 1819; Shanghal Lindopal Fllas, 5:10: 161 2 37

SUS INSON;

Whole

Hat'l

10 July 1910, HITC

Amorticen

laserdition

toight

Build

'8]1n

PALP

In 1932 holder al U9 paiapor? $ 382046 Lasued HTC 16 May 7931

#let 055

In 1931 Lova to havo Melted Denary

Dona counts and falloner of lucy sTai

ArTivod in Shanghai on 23 Aug 1932

14 Sapt 1932 marriad Harold Robart ISiAOS, She had bear engaged to ISAACS

for

sona years bafor her arrival la China, and it hao buaa

stated that the lottero

botruan the tro Indicated that Canunist arupathles on the part al both end of

ISAACS' Intertion of Joining tbo CI

Astor her arrival In Chlas was analoyed at the Dah Chung Hidile Saboal;:

Shanghal as a bosaber

She I1vad in the Embaniment Bulling Ridg, North Soochou Road

On 7 August 1933, the ISLICS laft. Stunztial for Japan and on ló lug 1733

procoaded to Dalron, returning to shergral iy rall ad 26 laguot 1953:

Da for 1933; info mas rocolved to tha effout tint Miss Ri BINSON was & teacher

at tha Cosperative Law Sassal, sterigial

71 :

1/3 г

AUG 1 4 1351

1111.4a1403

155A5 -

---

## Page 81

14-00000

Harald Robert ISilas wilh alladoo

10 Sil (pannana upoi ls China)

Harald hobart ISMICS was born in How fork City on 13 Septembor 1010 as Amer

1oan paraito, Ela fathor hao bean riportod as a docluedly al the comerelal typoi".

LiACS ba:bean dosaribed as Intelligent; critter, doses and nerroualy organiaodo.

Litilo 1a non concerning the activatios of Isuas prler to blo artlull la

DiA. I. B. NDARS:

dato lo shanghos, la raçorted to baro ambarrassed blo boa in tho presunoo of triends

by "Hadas" the lattor about trylno to make soney on roal oststo miltlo 1n Loa

ingoloa balore solas to colna.:

Tho actual dato when Cecil Prank Gis and Harold IS.UGS 18 not kionin, bas 16

mist havo bean shortly aftor the arrival of Gliss In Sianshal In Hay 1937, for 1o

Juna 1932; Israes und C35 made a trip up the fanst aro togetberai

Is bas boen statod that IS LiCS noone Interastod la Caminlan with spooseia ra

Iû has bean atated that

Intion to Chies, but lottara pritten by Linos to lila flançua, VIolA ROBINSON,.

bestests

vIe hao doentsasedatrat: IsAlcs becane interested in Cocuiton

rolstion to Chiraj 1t ha, also boan sisted that lottoro dotvaca ISLACS and lile

Slanco, Viala nosInsor, uhlda vero vestion daring, the Tanstoro trip indidated fos

seniot sympathies on dao part as bollj and ana d the lotters concasnad the infor

nation thet IsMos had deatded to turn i Rode so a rocee as hia convoroatsans rita

GLAsuadá you aro amara, I3LiZ3 and GLASS roturnad to Shanghal in dugust 1931 and toois

un resideaco 8$ 128 Malhaival Reado In joptober 1931; bott mer are reportad to bare

jucore nonbara as the POLLiS Daiunso lazaltioo, Iülics bains tio Scoretary;

---

## Page 82

ISidoS 1s also roported to havo boon a snaives aí lia socioty of Prionis of tue Usia.

Opin lia arairal 10 China, ISi C3 jolnel the daltorial atar: of the Stenghal

Evening Post and

I the Morourg, ISidis man diso exploud with the Havas Vera igenoz,

ubih donnection so la roportod to hars sovered arousd Deduaber 1933;

Isuis also otartod and lates bocase editor and published or the a China foruin."

It la bolloved to: hita bion

¿son a sonthis Engilar Languago paper Leoued at first as a cormeralal job pras tho

Hereury, Prosta Pro October 1932 0a 16 5as prlatad by tha Loval Publia dra Company

100ç, 33, Inso 478, Blendang Road.. ISlAIS la reported to havo openly statod tast:

Jo nes boen otated that those no bre ISics la Sienghai found no randon to chink

ho mao a "'psy orla man for dorican Conselots, and that during the firat ard al ida

stay lu Chine, ha mas not a folloras al Suiely. Moxaver, ho 1a repartod to have sua-

ally becase comraded that the futice al the chinoso cozunists, very mung and that

Protaly mus nechht orielelsing thes; end tie sortet Coveraneni under 540118ó Ha

thorararo moto en article antitlod;" I Brass ratà Eyehda t: a Stainiots, o in asica.

anas other things; ho le roported to havo statod that tho expande of puslishing the

sagaxthe had bosa b mod by the Chlosso Commistg, He 10 ten deportod to bave

dacant tod the veragle and to haye ould the pelating opilpant, the sues bolle

realsego tra the bolo sot balas tumod back to tho Chinese Communista but to have

Doen Baron to the trototy dauso"

TONICS bad boen engagod, sor sevari guars to VIola RiDeSi uno arrived 1.

Shangrel ca 23 lugust 29325 On 14 Joptamber 1932, she end IS ACS iero enrilod and tock

up weldegee In eno inbarmant Ballans en Rurth Soacion Road, Prior to tho rall as

1939, Irene sorters or That datoà subject in the solas Ceo 1s rapertod

to bare Ired la tho Ebontant Bullding till coo fenco iCI7.1. Bid ADOUARD aad his

"L'o tha dava bach roported de surtet print taris and vero-to maro icam to beve

---

## Page 83

Doon 1a clo contact With E ElliOll then tha Latter as 1o Gers aloo 11rod la

Eito Ballalag le to viro 19300 do Aparteent 509.

After has arrival is chira, VaLa BUBIIION ISES no caplayad at the Del. i

c'uns judio deboul, end by derainer 1933 ma ropirina do a toastor st eho

ComparatiTy LeM 9ahoo1 ln 3banghal.

Da 2 turnot 1993, ten IsaAcs lost Shangial 105 Sipao, and on 26 fugust 1933

pesoonded so vitres, soturudne to ahensani by rall' on 26 reguot 1933% In Brature

- one a Poole for us pay Corre the Repo de Cree

Is da ter 194) Isics 1u peportet to bare rasted Hes, and bras hOliNg whule they

.....

moro an a lunger etrate in poisola the puring af 1934) Islas and ble mie leit for

folatata no routo to Polang ot shich esty, tacy rosiuos 0t.2 lung Fu Cala Too, Kost 3i

caty. Bie salling addrass roas al one A UNAN; Grand Hotel, Paling

¡Pha boen not out herotaforo; ISlACS lo roportod to hayo turnou agelnat

tue Stalinot Connent of tho ussa, boconing a Protaiiito: Durian, thia perdod so

noto the raçody ol tho Chicase Rovolution, " a logedly do a oingdo gestaro ar

internetalion no sentoss to hor hos, in his optila; both this Rints en

tho concunloto had sono mang la china loo 1à Apoll 1936; ander tho han peno of

Mr notice worse poty, Soo artilo do repartody an ablack on stilts and mao

entitlod, stalincora redy to cobrace chlung dal Shakies: Ossicar Shinose Red

Diy la Return sos readspotloa ol daaoterous 1:27 bise;"

19999595

---

## Page 84

Ii das dron sested dy frienda of Isiiis even during tin noighe of llo frol-

adIsi esrear, be novor acoapted monas pral any sroupi that he vas open anil abova.

board, a that to never piece i dicent to certion catablsarod sovere

mast. hay ana aloo raported to have stated thet dias uns attraated to comunis

Io seo boen further reportod that daidiatoly arter Poarl Mirbor;, IstiCs broko i

rath the satalato group ao ba bad broken led to communiotos and boson miting

proparanda der the United Statoo Gunorrierty,

Senoslay In the late 10300; ISlAis intured to sho Unitad Stetos,-By-so kli

Until to sall of Franoo, ho was employed dy tha Havao Nema Agenogain Octovor 1943;.

as 1943, Do gas variay for Metual Magazins 11 Naphinezon, DoC. ida adrosa as elvit.

tina via idesdahia Helghta, Norport Arog, 49300:

3 late ISh or early 1915) IlLICS was In ChangitaR as a rapresertatito al

¡estanto During thla parlod, ho had'a groat del of trouble about consorahip, and

sported no doinad pendantos to Moft Comunot aross. It has beon olated that

actunles bo ma paraly salorianato da that ho appitad just alter tro sovoment noi

rustonal les too on fouriotto traval la chat dirostion, at the clero ho bait sae

•deadod ramdantos, Poidza muta es Mao bad fuet bian allend to so, and IsCS falt

this bo pia boing diger piestod against buo boon atatedthas matre, upon lla rotai

come more odd acoust of statolition in the hod coi sust this, aded to othe

anitar parences, cavessel the gorarate doc amiration no to let any soro

sates stoppers sa up and bocoa counto corvariain In Seren 1969; ISACS

rea ruparted no about to leave Cinunglass pornnestlas:

o rollaros tasertions of Kaali and finis Iginca aro sos out for yout

÷e.

tarantasso

---

## Page 85

1562

farela discos

ВАгО

20. July 1910; MC

AmorIous

Hoight

gigg

Basid!

20d1 am

Half:

black; iraty: brisbad baok.

Complx

Posoports in early.

"19309.

U3 Passport #.177026

VIOLA R. LIACS

13 30St 0, 1910, HTC

An0r16an

585.°

aälm.

• Bals:

Dag paroport # 382046, 988ued MIC I; May

1: 931

ts additie to Agies MEDLEY and Thank GLA:9, I9MCS 1e Lom to here been in

costrict with the follorine nailo in Crina s;

Piuna DUDI, For o tles dering blo stay in Crane, ISiCS so ropostad to havo

Ived with Durom, then correspadent of the lY Moos and senor at ano tina, sunagtag

305975

30 33

John X LAX, Singhai ropresentátivo ol tha Paclflo Mors Agonor In Van-

no unana or mitten end an ipova, cures tito oter in China.

AVG 14 K02

---

## Page 86

PUPLICATIONS

Brote an artiale entitlod "I Brant with the stalinista" which allegaily among

ochor things, that the expanose of rubliahing a sagasino nich he mas partlag cut.

bia, barded by, lies Chinose Coumuolstes

2 mA ME, ISAACS published a mathly Engllah Janguago mganno, roued first

abia casuralal Joyleic pron the Morousy Press and latar printed Son A arall Printing

Astillb jarcharod by IsiAl. It has been stated that afteripublinting tha article y

Brack with the Stalinisto," ISlACS discontinued the magazine and sold 1to pratting *

oguipments It has been otatod that the small sun realised fron tho sule tao sut turned

baals to the Chinese Crematote but tao turnad ovar to the Brotal Guses

---

## Page 87

4-00000

SUBJECT OF

ANALYST

SECRET

Pilles Ins

DOCUMENT THANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT

ICENT

ICATION

RI FILE NO.

DiSPATCH

361- 2044-1

OR SOURCE DUC, STUDi

DAYK

186 B 23

DATE OF ISTO.

EVALUATION

LATt

CROSS ARFRANCO TO THIS FILE

DATE PROCESSED

208ct45

DOCUMENT. DISPOSITION

PERTINENT.

INFORMATION

TRANSPARAEO TO

RI FILE 'NO.

Committe li the decretas

y a the au Pacific Tendis

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

0 вы

867 voe

201+18436

SECRET

---

## Page 88

14-00000

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF EMINEN:

Alexander Hassler Buchar

DOCUMENT IJENTAFICATION

RI FILE NO.,

201-4753

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC, SOMBOL

No.

DATE

45339

d 5 Dec. 51

P. SOURCE CRYPTONYM a.

DATE-Of 11r0.: D.

EVALUATION

ANALYST

Lanes

P. DATE PROCESSIO

3 Dec. 63

10. DISSEMINATCO IN

DarE

Plausher

CROSS REFERREO TO THIS FILE -

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

9..

TRANSFERRED TO

RI FILE MO.

FERTINENT. INFORMATION

Reference is made to pretous correspondence concerning the captionad subject

and in particular to your cormunication of 10 Juiy 51, your file number 105-11929

in which it was requested that Tilman Durdin be interviewed regarding his knowledge

of the background, beliefs and un activities of the individuals rared belon.

who travels continously and extensively in the'Far East, was finally located in Djakarta

Indonesia, and on li Nov. 51 was interviewed, in accordance eith your request, and the

following information elicited.

2.

Durdin stated he knew nothing definite regarding the present activities and alleded

cormunist connection of Frans Joseph WEISBLATT, Harold ISAACS, Frans GLASS, ALEXANDER

BASSLER BUCHMAN and George Alerander Kennedy, and that he could furniah info on their

early activities only.

1848.4477M

.

DURDIN said that he knows Harold Isaacs well and that he last saw him at the confererce

in Baguido in the Fhilippines, which was held in November 1947.

He stated that Israss

ISAACS was formerly with NEWSEEK but that he now believes he is a gree lance lecturer

and writer.

oommunist.

He gave his opinion that Isaaxs, althought left wing, is not necessadly

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

9011718446

FORM

Д - 37

867

SECRET

---

## Page 89

FBI REPORT

DATE:

5 DEC. 51

CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJ:

PAUL RUEGG, WAS: HILAIRE NOULENS,

AND OTHERS

FBI FILE #: 100-344906 (BUREAU)

---

## Page 90

138J35

*i'1

•*.:

Masse me dieters

...?...

5001 3

ati'

825-UXH5

0180HN1

IS MỌN SI

**.J.

138035

MANGA 19001 11110: 199201.1

00000-*L

---

## Page 91

TaeRotEy

....?

1::

fatr.o.

:.i'.

:7+

TittG.

110ig

:!

irtil.

'!.

PtTni:

PEt wai:

t'ElmuH Pladho 1H9U? 1912:

t'ti:

??:

Siln

Oli BURldO 309S 607

-117146.094.

.. :.:

Suducct rreed

.thomr.

•ám.,.?

---

## Page 92

14-00000

COPY

*ICRET

7 Novamber 1951

Asslatent Director for Policy Coordination

Attentions.

Security Officer

Chief, Spoolal Security Division.

Harold R. Isaacs

Reference 18 made to a memorandun fron your office datod

3. July 1951 1n which you requested that a Special Inquiry be coi

ducted to resolve inforustion concerning an allegation that sub

joct lo gympathetio to and/or connected vith Communist activitios.

2. On 31 August 1951, Mr. Kenneth Patrun of the Security

Office was advised that partial results have been received as

a result of inquires at several national agencies.

The partial

information reflected that Subject had beon connected with at

least two factions of the Comminist Party while living in the

far East.

It was suggosted that extreme caution be used in con

tacting or associating with the Subject.

3.

This offico has completed the investigation of the Sub

ject, which includes a check of records of the appropriate Federal

agencies.

As a result of this imestigation, the filos of this

office

contain a great deal of information concerning Subject's

association with questionable organizations and individuals.

Although Sübject has denled any current activities with the Commu

nist Party, his associations and aotivities are highly questionable

and his political sympathy has not been unqualifiedly resolved at

the prosent time.

In blow of the information as set forth above, It 18

recoimended that extrane caution be exercisod in dealing with the

Subject. Under ho circumstances should Subject ba contacted, vith

regard to posstble use by this agency prior to recelving a final

security determination by this office.

FOR THS SECURITY OFFICER, CIA

ROBERT H, CUNNINGEAM

SECRET

---

## Page 93

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

CIS"ATCH NO. 89050/100

FLASSIFICATION

Clof af itaslos, long Kong

Gù G, TOOLT UBIC &

SUBJECT: @NE46.

= LaP5P.2t150

30,r,810:

raquont ior "rte

CAIE:.

KAS LEM

Bosia porila

lo In oci sot'iu titi e curpest lanistigutlon, Msslani baa rogiesaten

8uE 9111 1ArÁr tO ATErVia0d aiGE UO 11aca1098 què badea, I9 1a

rogiartox. È'at ll aelir te iat sou in iudr, faia, ar la uoi uxgootno to do tihard

tE bãO lCe ÷N CHllo Alaaien Di LeGdOW dr tile Misrotih sau ba

sint to the projar cictitio

de da nogiuiar iti seulo dos you es dst, merbso

d ÷ü se lo w ETno GE lúeTHO gataraljo !IE l3 Baurtoi, Etsgura

LEò A pIECiS d dS LEjiR", dO MRiO inNaeDlo s0 a aU1LailO MICL CEID

(n renticitacisa oi teo licala icoutiti pi)les, 18 duo fo arsi Lasiole dind shas

ho Leturolea lrcdo esd titan au ai ta foadise

do d roliailo (ruar' i Larpronoi livs stulul Diaû La 1950 DIMIin E2B 12

missgial, arsine de ciy aditr el des ?Nlaistosa," de Eons 11eo lO Faa 0018

to har aurTi sI dcTtNiE ast MpS Saoh "nsübläi, ttis sa decoMbed as au

ADOPISET ULLCEI LIA: 1E GIINE dO A DEDO rajOrIOTO DCCOrOLIE SO StO lufemaRi,

=ÚSOMiT ME A! LiNT CiE a CÓRE ANOUlDIO d ZOSOId TUTA, MO PAE BalE LI

haso Dero e jia ui lo cháruesi la 3003 no oittor dú oso "buina italn'o doestaad

es o trratt ni tro retaroa nroregatilaes" sau ma sepacdad

A'ASEUiS SOUTRS OS UNEIIM FaLLAiLIS; bUS BELOed

Chat l0 diSS 11105 1g&

io badrg sa agurt for to thist interialiionl

DO IX 1399, "LiCIAN D290tt INON C0 KIrlO Lio ATLaSS

1n heurT, Geleraio, AVPlSNi Bubittad tari: Dory a CP nador Shas 1088 80

1537, Lo otaler tiat 1a 1iã0 and 1008 !0: o Durila la Shasebal, Gad trest

mulec trai padoù ho, ramuld lubnos, traio

SO aó ALUECiO PEMAI

Ppoprsial, hala montiaos B: tisa lora os rillia iartis la araschas, inens 0sasa

1o o trltlan euò bit procoutly livis, 16 los digolca, aur usi 1a an dnsplosa

ELO BIGO dITRA LA LOS ARjOLODO N':TSIAI CESUTIDON ERAITE ENS OLISS DE

PPasoItea la 1UVa2, an1 duzarlboi l=Hal ds a foraã" sisbes El d0

Camioo lozà lunguo la dus t08. A z zalat leforart of kainoey rellamlle

haa sigurE UaL CTlAG det paOd GUiS RES MUAiS EAS MUpeRLER Al balE

901885106.

oiil'

1YO 0E0R0E

Ciieta

COORUrA

ALTAIN

CA

N11100

Gerzia ai kauatr

CAS51E1661109

---

## Page 94

ECIEN

afa1t3 10T tho Dilru I8:9T08::C066 1a 5-23500l.

do In a1d111o.80 the aboro 1odridual0, Dulla 19 alos reportal to boto

boen en serialr tanoo

la prossTiLly miplogad o: lals lalvoraltjo EEiTilo das en aspaselitos al

arghas at that tios.

¿vio of lo acoro laudiara dasipos diao Durala da LetoFriscod

el sar so posasulo ralatito to &s9.0

La seguidorana sud ansocietica

DiEDO MEISELATT, IRALOS, OLASO, DUCHO

11T19. Depila la regusaroS to

de tieso Intimidento es besall

os tha 0P or the faira Lisereatlanal,

Ho sus mey tone ten encener

Qui sago sotinitlio ca beiel? of the sonlot untos, althar curtas the carly

1970%0 In Cine, 08 a: eco subroguent perlado

---

## Page 95

14-00000

1=1.3.

Aniirà Statro Begunirant al Eafira

Erasral Gurrau ol Incratisstion

Far 1153 1358.21, B. 8

0012-245=11219

•Da 898

Sopteator 11, 1951 :

Dire e tat

connel latalligange Agency

2430 & Street,

, І. й.

Enorington; D. C.

CONTICS ETIAL

BY SPEC:AL HASSENCE

DF13-11550

201-6556

Lift 14145L

Attentlone. Lager Diaral Do O. Hymna

arilos as Spoedal Oporations

John Edger footer - Diroatos

FodoraL BEZONU al DeVOOLigatiOn

Subjoots

TILHAN DIEDIA

ITERIAL SECURITY - B

In commotlen alls as afflelal livosilgation bolng cor

duerad by chlo Bureau, i aro dedirora of ettairag engtala inions. "dos

sroa tr. Millaen Dardin, Tho 13 presently localad o/o Mous Rora, Mort

Stardard, 10s Findam Hours MOTorde, Hong Smy. Is Toll C apreslated

Fong larg along the liena sas ott tolen.

Por roir infantatioo, Darlin 1a a furalen arrespordant Rea

tha iDa Tork Ilses rescapar. Ra 18 an Andrioda @ dison born Marca so,

1907, at BUtherE; Deino, ded has boon caplayed so a lasales carrasgordons

Sar ta la fast floso SuE Daly JOarD, pasalbis sinoo al 20008 tos ely

1930% 8.

A rollablo inforsant has advisad that da 1939 bardin E3e 11

Shanghat, Crina,

At that Elso Derdin was naid to ba sharing an apartini tila fruns dodop

Ratablate, dosc-ibod as en Acerican estison taa 1n dalia ao a ravoraros

гороговь.

aBoolara of ora Rapold, Lonace.

According tA ous infersant, Paleblast ma 88 that lies alades

Joaace, an Asarican edtiior prosanely

21t1rs 11

1O TOTX 6169, ERO 881d DY OUT INTOTARDE LO DATA DEDI EsplaNeS

---

## Page 96

12.24717

Le Shanial 1a 1933 do Feltor s Che "Chla) tors," desoriber as a

Conominis? pablicalloo.

¿ COuCa ol untenina rallabillsr bao adatal shas

10 1933 10Rc0 UnO &

"nutarion redliai sypatrises" dol tue stipaital

ut balris ar arent of the Thre It'erational. Indee das cald to taro

всk1тісісо.

In March, 136g

suo jureau daterolerse one Bicarié

inio Noian, an avaritar eitfroa serently livine la Dearer, Colman.

and aparan pralllod birlag beca a mapper of the Consuriat Party fri

ipplemus auster last 10 1033 and 1934 bo KatH Durain 19

§herghal, und that 1us1.u8 char terlod, ha, appleson, Hansla Inares, ITali

¿laes am disrader suchra, trequeatly held acectres as she bos os

Minar build da Stanghal.

Prams blaos in thielab eitizen presently Living in Log

ingeles. callfor:la.

Bu-bras 1s as AbsTican citizen dido presensio.

lirtre lo dia Arceled.

MATIA naplesar deacribed Inades dist Alasa se

Arctoryline in 1933-34, and described Buchnar as à lorrer mazber of sa

¿armala dent ingue. In the Uriter blates.

reliabille; ins also reparted tha: durice chat serlid Giras 1a Isaaat

rare aimits of seln, agents for ter Thira Isternatioal 1s senngtap.

La saltelas lo to adore individualo, Durala la also reparsa

ti: save toon as acuialntanco tr Stinghai 1a about 1932-33 of Coorra

ALexsider tenDedy, an Avaricas citizen presently anglayed at tailo

Enrian; to an asqualatarce of Barold isnacg 06 2535 11n9,

Shanghal si iber 1100.

In v1o4 of the Infarnaplan lodicaties that 5°. Durdly las

requaintel mies these Lalriquais curleo the carly 1930'8, 18 1a dealied

¿ra: no bo trumine! relative lo the extent of lila acqualatesco una..

Pracis ilana, bloxander duchess, and Goorçe Alemaniar farasity.

1: sa raquialed that durdin bo questional particuiarly a l

AS I¡L'CTERLIE DO MY jOSseSS cracerniDE ani ictirfiles of these

inviduala po tonal? of the tom rist party or the 71ri lateracional.

Dum!: carnia sl00 do acknd viruser he tas any incurmacion inticating asy

0r 10090

tirienia ray hava erineed in emplonate astinieles en betel"

or the Sorte?

1z1or, etches auire the early 1930'e in Chira cü at may

1t !s seatred cat Mull doralls to obtalrod tran

---

## Page 97

restille everaire actinialed or the part of any of these losinarels.

It rould be appreciated li vou vasid endestor to save

trierriever de unc eurliest jossible date.

---

## Page 98

4-00000

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET 2 Jej 51

INSTRUCTIONS: Ollicer dosignations should to unt in tie "TO' column.

Under each commons a lino should be, idearn arrors ahuo

Each illica, nhould initial inhaki mart incullerions)

berlore lurthor routing. This Rouling and Rocsed shont sheuld be resurnad la Regisiry.

TO

ROON

NO

2006

DATE

RICO

-8 253/51

INITIALS

COMMENTS :

FDZ

AURORIS

lessed

COPY RETANNES FOZ/BR.2

Conell

Aar Klonis

uter

fiquières.

Kref filed

1it-4-21-6

201-184461"

DITELLIGENCE

51

IR

F08.M00. B-10

4409

ARSTALICI

II.TEX

SECRET

---

## Page 99

4-00000

80. 08 p95308

Roport lado ly daltor J. Ingold

Diatributioni

sourco Gyptains Tunio-2

SECRET

Ropore t0. 1

Enoloureds

Nono

Approvad by jasps li. barlor

Rotorencos

and WASH 01123

1. In our

• last mondago to Tunlo-2 on 30 July no upod to discropancy concorniar loo

¡Piguoros' vlolt to NN as an oxamplo 1n a gontlo lecturo on the virtuos of

accurato roporting.

By 1 luguot Tunio-2 anovorod back: Ino nan obrioualy takeo.

prido in blo vork:

2. An opo camont rolating to thlo roport vili do sont In anothor pouch or via cablo.

а, -лії..

SEORET

---

## Page 100

14-00000

SECRET

subjects too Plovoros

Placo Acquirodo

Svaluationi #-3

Ropore iio. l

189

Dato of Infos, an Indicatod

• Dato diguirada 1 Muzuot 51.

Dato of Reporte 2 Auguet 51

Sources.

According: to

who worke in the Vlot Sinh diniotry of Forolm Affairo,

Loo Mauroo nao In salgon in carly loe..

The french did not allow hira to renain

In Salgor and ho ma forcod to return to france.

Figueres lator wont to Hong kong

In lâto Auguat 1950, and Chon procoodod to tho Vigi. Bae via tho Hoa lan (F.C.! South..

China 8) road to attond tha third Congrove of cho'fel hold in oarly Octubor 1950.

2. Thore had boen doveral previou casos of individurla no vero mable to roach lut

Hinn territory fron Salgoi bocause of French injortoroaco.

In July 1949 tr. A. Moth,

sitor of tho Sunday Tritune, arrived In Saigon and obtalned all nocoonry papero,

cio Fench did not allow hua to procood locause c. his pro-Cominint articleo.

Othora

oro Walter orlano of the @ulotion Selenco Lordter, Furold Tonaco SIon MenarooK, an

•Evero pan (bocauno he orlelaliod Rao Dal In Hoatsardi die!)

SSCRET

---

## Page 101

14-00001

FBI REPORT

DATE:

JULY 51

•CLASS:

CONFIDENTIAL

UNKNOWN

FBI FILE #:

100-68282 (NEW YORK)

---

## Page 102

85 Juzo 1951

MEMORANDUS FORT RE/ES

SUBJBCT

Harold R. Isaaos, Roqueat for an laformatior

ramsahoak on.

It la roguostal thit a nanechock for information be

conduotod on subjoot for tho proporo of doturatain; the valido

Ity of charren: teet dibjoot 10 syspathotlo to dedyer counctad

alth Cornuadet aotirities.

-B: Ho havo boon Infernod unofflolally that Sidjost da

ourrantly onployed by the Ford Foundation as na actiser an

Far Bart projocts.

then mo of our covart agones as racently

onlled upon by tho ford Foundation to prosout suzo ougestions

for a f'nr Bast progran, the mont found that subjoot sas la-

taroatod in and ung to be closuly cornootod with tila program.

It 13 plannod that tho Ford Foundation ronalna unavaro as tho

CId concoation with trio covert arant..

Than the report in comploted, the inforation should

bo routed to j, Brüss dastuts, FB-)/OF0.

DOU QUIS D. PIRANC

Doputy Chias, 15-2

Dists Cris i

2

idarosseo

Rogistry.

fe-l filos.v

SEORET

---

## Page 103

14-00000

MALÃI Horold R. IsaROs

ACPKESS (last liom =: 148)1 835 Contral Parl Meut, 80%.C.

DA:S UP BIRTHA. 2920

MATICNALITTS AMOTIONA

DUSTES CARSHI (a) StarS Writer Sor Havaa Nons Agonoy

(1830-2035)

ib) Lantor of tuna Foru

(0)

City Wiitos for Cisdau Pross, Shangha's,

(d). Far Einstorn fur Corrospondunt for lorarook -

(2044-2045)

(o) Bpodial Frujooto Editor for laures's (2917 - 8)

(i) Mardour to ford Yourdition.

PUBLICAPICLES

to contributod to Harport 6 Lagusing and Toranto Itur Hook3y•

•Do Buckei (000 attaored)

EPRET

---

## Page 104

14-00000

Me-thirds of the soride Froglona of a sas approach

To do Forlos er tala, Alou, and Latia-Aberios, - 1086

2.

3.

notos aù Iritsoductia. 158%.

Ác Fc:ca 555. 1810 - 1917..

Iro Youra of Ruo in Tilla losetic - 1582

milton Precico - 1036 - Lem Trotaly truto the book asid

lasaca translatod 1t.

SEGRET

---

## Page 105

14-00000

SECRET

(ason pillad lay

SUBILCE OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUSHNE

JOENTIFICATION

AI FILE NO.

200-6/7-55

DISPATCH OR BOUNCE DOC, SYMBOL NO.

jurgo Espoonago lose

DATE

28 Dec.

1950

EVALUATION

CRYPTONYM

DATE OF INTO

TT. DATE

ANALY!

james. E. Plaugher

CROSS ALFEARCO TO THIS TILE

DATE PROCESSCO

10. OIFIEMINATED IN

21 Nov.

1963

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

м12.

TRANSIEARED TO

RI PILE MO.

PERTINENT INE ORMAT LON

Is Inclosed is Consecutive Echibit No: 32 in the documentation of the Sorge Espionage

Case. This,

"Exhibit conglots of twò related parta: I and II.

"ha socond part 18

dividod into two sectiona, A and B, bocause of Ita bulk. Part I 16 an index of each

peroonality and organization Ilated in Part II. Part II corsist of a resume of the

contents of each Shanghal Municipal Polico file, followed by a babular listing

of the contents of the files, with page referonces.

Page 240

Isaacs, Harold Robert:

Anti-War Congress report, mentioned in

Burton report,

mentioned In

"China Forum"editor of

"Chinese Workers" Correspondence";

Investigation re

Received by

Envelope addressed to

"Flev Years of Kuomintang Reaction"

Granich, "Evidently another Isaacs!

"I Break with the Chinses Stalinists"

author of

G-2 Doc. #

Page

59

30-32

10

8-9

]

65

32

944

1-2

6

45

65

107

16

2-7

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

801-18446

SECRET

8. 37

867 019

---

## Page 106

14-00000

SECRET

r8880

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CSOSS REFERENCE

Of

DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATIOY

FI FILE NO.

201-131,

DISPATEN Of SOURCE Doc.

AGNES SMSOLST, WAS.

28 80T.50

EVALUATION

ANALYST

JEP

CROSS REPEARIO TO THIS PILE.

DAiR PROCESSED

PISSEVIDATEO IM

21 Hor. 1963

•DOCUMENT

DISPOSITION

1IR. TONUSIEARED TO

"I FILE MO.

PERTINENT ISFOSVATICA

DATE.

page 69

The July 30, 1932 issus of the New Iork fines", under a Shahghal Datoline

of Jule 29, 1932, states that Harold R. Isaacs, an ierican citizen., was warred

by the U. So consul in shanghai that the U. So say with draw sax isit its extra

territirial rights and allor him to be tried in a Chinese Court. Isaacs, then

editor of the "China Forun", had rolently attacked Chang Kai-Shok, calling bit

among other things, a butcher. The article further atated that jagacs was

as associate or agnes Suedley, a corresponded car Arican newspapers.

page 73.

The "arch 7, 1946 issue of the New York Imes rórlects an article

captioned "Broup of Americans, including writers and journalists ánnounced

that they had sent aletter to Chaing Kai Shel concerning the death of Yang

Chao, Out employee, who was arrested by the lationalists and ided in prison.

The sighers were critical of the treatment recieved by CHAO. THIS FOLLOWING INUIVIQUAL

signed the lettor:

Maxell. So stewart. Elisabeth Ames, Maroline Slade,

Alfred Kazin, Eric Severeid, Richard Watts,

jr. Ho-R. Isaäcs, Agnes Spodley

and Theordore White.

FILE THIS FORD IN FILE NO.

201-18476

.. ,, 867

SECRET

---

## Page 107

14-00000

SECRET

reen dollar lay

DOCUMENT TRAMSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJLET OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

AGNES SMEDLEY waS. Ayoo, Yahoo

AI FILE NO.

201-414

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMDOL NO.

1854

%. SOURCE CRYPTONYM O, DATE OF INTO.

.. DATE

H van 195

VALUATIO

ANALYST

JEP

12. CROSS RIDERMEO TO THIS FILE

DATE PROCESSED

1O. DISSEMINATED IN

3 Dec. 1953

DOCLAGENT DISPOSITION

19:

TRANSTERRED TO

RI FILE MO.

PA. •DATE

PERTINENT INFORMATION

23, 1932 in which the sue left ated incene passport renoval application dated June

listed as Identifying witnesses -=-subject mentioned

Harold R. Isaars, who according to infornation poasessed by Til as "RED'

FILE: THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

701+18446

1O9м

д -37

867

SECRET

17•001

---

## Page 108

14-00000

SEGRET

2p

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

WASHINGTON 25. D.C.

ADS 50DB-20568

DEC Z 1949 via Aloo

2072644

allantloni: It. 106a lo ingoroall

'ubjecti orarild iobert dirais

MICROFILMED

FEB

3 1966

DOC. MICRO, BEA.

1rão d0 1n Traly Bo iP. dach to icol'a p0,u0id for latorsalion

exICaTain; rarilE "ODErE ISARES, anda ty Belarcuse On ES ioveRin 1949.

аді! дій:

a. 'iccordina le

infóraison dubalcon feas a dourse coralitored soilúrio,

Har, is abert ISAACS sos torn In jon jork illy on l? Copianoes igio.

He arrivid in

HaREst ire Mansio in Lendaber 1$30 nod

of inorioan vasapore Itruês.

Sa Co das diese expluger in - hangiol ba

thơ

1n

.ranibialo

sirother

no secuze agraciatad with the chins 27632,

paper unell.

19210

La care ai ino gas jour indice nado a erd da

the lanülre

ilver sits ancil tennk curtals intelah suifset

and minter

of 836

ricion corvalet carty, suspected of loing an areat cor tbo Miles

: Intopaallinel ln Chine.

3.

on 15 Jude 1931,

"Liare NOVLENS, rich aldases, ins arrustod to tha

igilce

chargas

3f asplorais

Third

intercabional.

ISALES DeÇADe tha hasinal couraliTy or ebo inalto intere

¿nationale oar la cóloreo io taul ot jertrudo tuesa (ReN), a conalbeoo

forred

so aid the NeULENsa la lache dolenco oçainct oharjas it osalanago

preferred dy the chinese goveranant.

11 80r569.201.10:29

Mith: 11L1 JU:1 SUFERG, the reuliane d thoco-ilstee

alth boadcuartörs

1n Horld.

sor the thiri intipnatlosal.

C029.22088 1932,

san's nago polico to lha daerlai

artirod to haginal

¿aio

да бы лизняє 193 бтов ¡злодуть,

¡araila, aborre 12o

¿pisan os tola?, an1 una 1570 anaolor or 19ar1007 Masor 292046

Lasued la deo jort an id lsy lyll.

¡10 tocrilne sas hold on l6. :aptealies

201-18446

$a81S9

- 503

0: 18 151

---

## Page 109

14-00000

SECRET

vilaillo

narrlair,

all! C0: 1A1D 0051018100 10 de ValLed CoLor and

8:d :198 40d1a. 1 98105

to thelt

inà: 'oroiner lBè, ileg

wl.69

''*" detenne attoreer,

_16h Coaching

the

son. 0f 1 11a15 an::051.60 930: 15.

C9 4 Ap888 1930, lA tro Un1os

tho: psoudaija of. Lo gen vu.llanod a

ostrirse

orkera"

aMy dn

¡eu tort, ontielid "'rudlitorn teres lo abrace islan: raloahok ci

UlloR PoS-RU dn deluTo dor cosurrectler dl llo 16a: ip2u0 1487 1100.9

de lo colloved thet ia. haber joinos dio isares

intornatlunal, argendeed

by trolaki subaciuane lo rio laltario arlis fras iusoli.

0.

juring orld er il lainti, deo dens ecTrospuierl Tor 20050001

In salna.

in duly 1949 no aa saludos entro int india by almon

malioñallet

suttaritica,

proousaily as a roaule di antiniallanaliat

Marold lobare lado 1o euprailly ipiolal foaburo isllor for Lorgeo.

Isi est bend breot, lien York, ites

Yark.

lo 10.tha 04ttor of esperal

Late currano polilleal balioio aro ankisan la thia panoy.

Talas lease tulo sountry, this arancy

sould sopredlate boirg

acrised of 1.10

intorial costinallan,

dote ol departuro and anj alher

¿a pertinout deralio.

Asalatand roddar

30 3720368-

en reveral tursau of livestigieloa

Pr

bdo

- 2 -

---

## Page 110

4-00000

SECRET

(moa

folled /01

DOCUMELiT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBURET NE COLORAT

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

stagha Municipal Pollie Prico.

„perican Citizesns Suspocted of Connio

comections.

RI FILE NO.

16-7-24173

S. DISPATCH OR

soUAce DoC.

SYMBOL

но.

2C5A-746

P. SOURCE CAYPIONINO, DATE OF INTO.

MALIST

Jaces "E, Plausher

O, DATE PROCASSCO

10. DISSEMINATEO IN

21. Nov e 1963

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

11. DATE

BE- CROSS ALPIANÃO TO THIS FILE

TRANSiEROIO TO

DI FILE NO.

PERI INENT INFURVATION

DATE

24 Fob. 49

EVALUATION

Para. 17

Harold "obert Isaacs was born in Now Yrk City on

"3 Sept. 1910 and hold

USe passport 177026. He was the editor and Publisher of the China Forum. a Shanghal

Carunist periodical first published in 1932: the secretary of the Miolens

Defense Counittee; a rember of the Shuhghai branch of gociety of Friands of the

USSR and of China League for Civil Rights. He arrived in Shanghal from Manila

in Doc. 1930 and worked for Shanghal Eveding Post and Mercury, swithing after

a few woeks to the China Press there ho was employed unt11., 931 (May). In June

1932 Isaacs took a trip up the langtzs with ": Brank Glass, a Brigish Camunist

and suspected Third Internatioral agont. A lanter a letter wiritten by Isaacs

to his fianco, Viola Robinson stated that he as turning "Red" as a result of

conversations with GLASS. Ather ataterints indicated athat Miss Robinson an

american then in Germary, was an active member of the conunite Party. Isaacs used

the pseddonym of lo Sen and publialed in the Mow Militanty organ of the New York

Dist. Dorkerg Party, an attack on Stalin entitled Stalintern Rgady to Embrace

Chiang Kai shok. In 1949 Isaacs was in the imploy of the ? American magazine

NETSalSA, New jork City, as special projecto odidor.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

284-18446

867

SECRET

---

## Page 111

P: 1li.l0e:,

ZCS-1811

leerestr.

Patriis

REGISTRY COPY

---

## Page 112

14-00000

134150

GONE LORNE LA!

SPRAISSIC

DETACHAT SCHOA

SEWISE

URET

ЗАСАЛТА, JAVA

SN: 2M2477

REPOI? NOS ZB-10

REICRT DATES 8 DOC 45

CAIT. BLUNCHELL, ATTNA LI BARNETTE INFO DATE 1 7 DOO 45.

FROK

GRABILL

NO. PISES

SUBUSOT! INTERVISI LISTISES MR. CAHOLD ISAAGS,

MRO SALES TALU, AND ARE DIA!.

SOURCES:

"ro carald laaaga, corrospondont for lougrook magazine:

Pr. Carlos Ta:bú,

Malaya born Taull, fortor!! engloged

on sirrunore newspapers, nouggastor for singaporo

rallo, Sin 1a:-poaring, anouncor on satavle kadlo

curing occupation, and presertly saltor of noveraper

Indonesiant

NY•

Diai:, asstor of verdeka, nationnliat rovspaper, Satavle.

L'ALUATION: 9-3, exoapt as notod.

The subjoct Intorulaw was hold at the requoat of ir. Isaaos

In line with tle leslro to talk with loading liguros of

Indoroslan

nationallat novonont sha roll no officlal govornnont, pooltion..

STIC LATION DE NERDE!

Asted about pregent dironlation of notoria, tr. 21a1 replled

a1th tho folloninsi

ME:DORA 19

tho largest Inconnolar neuspaper on

tho solaná of Java..

it present it 1a printou only in Satarla, with

a dally total aliculation of about 13, 000 coplos.

of thle number,

approxlantoly 5.000 doples aro sent cut of tho alej by train to

Bandong, sporatarta, and Ojoklakarta, leaving, a caterla circulation

"Of botreon 10,000 an 14,000 coples.

Sourco exprossos tha ortnion

that ohi!8

tho Indonesian pipulation of cataria lo in t'e nelstborhood

of 500,000 porsons, the Iltorney rate l9 purians enly tuenty percont

of t'la liviro.

Tus, to adaitted, Yidaid l0 probably reachina, leas

than: Pour cercont «ltro total Incoreular populatlon of batavia,

desallo the raot that batarla la probably tho soat litorato ares on

the lalen. of Java because of aproentration here of all the govern-

contal functions, prover and presont.

hon queationed an tway His aroulation use an incoralstont

MIth the potortial

reailne populalson, aourco replied trat lio was

landlesosol by isco of paror..

•a expressod the opinion that a

alreulatine of 52,000 Mould to asguro1, and a alroulicion of ao righ

aR 100, 000 posalblo, were

au?:lelent papor araliatio.

it tre areaone

rato or arountlon, to ostlanios d'at outclolait soner 16 in rand

{2)

SOUEZUOPIAL

ZM3477

---

## Page 113

14-00000

SAERIPASCALI

THE INDENEPT

On Decentor 7, 1945, the VERA prees corronood rublloallon of

a dally Engleh lanquago newsmaner entitled toEre ObET.

Tho

maetroad cf chlo paror states

also that 1t droorporatoo

CHO INHESIAY

NEWS MULLSTI, a

persor frgllar ianguage newspapor giblished by

ANTARA news AgenOy.

The iNDiRiDait 10 at prosont being edltol by kr. Tambu, with

Bone assisteroo fros Mr. plan. and ubine

tro papor and foc1111109

OP VERDEÑA.

Ine firat lanue of INDa PHTRiP Mes roiarisanlo anly for 148

avaldanco of any diacuonion of looal affaire, only too artiales

having arychlur, ratsoevor to do with Java.

questloned about th1s,

Tarbu adalicod that, villo his ultrato anblelo. woo to roeoh forolen

and troos (arlila: rondors, he wea booltant acout ontorine boadlong:

Into disonosis, 01 inoal affalro and the taclo allat causo,

negause,

10-3), tho aritlah no unfavoraoly diazosed towardo anoira alroady,

and would une hia vonturo do an arguse to omnilacate tro ontire

pointlng plane, vore lo too openly partloan in lus aarly laguco.

Welln a does or ana do rosos to be secure encugli in cle poulcion to

start lajlag sore atroos en local novo and oaltorints.

The firat LoBue of IPPErLOaT Mao printed In 400 coplos, m00t

of whior vora given avoy, although tho states price 18 1 Japaneso

guildor tlio copy.

(2)

versar

---

## Page 114

14-00000

27 March 1945

TO: Lieutenant Colonel ROCLE L. PAPP

From: John I. Coddlington

•Subject: HAROLD ROBERT ISAACS

Mr. GORGE N. KATES Of O33, Fih, has just roturned to the United Statos

from Chungking. Ho reached lashington yesterday. He clains to have known

HAROLD ROBERT ISAACS quite well in Chungking, and has the following observations

to make concerning fir. ISAACS:

HAROLD ROBERT ISAACS 18 atout 35 Jears of age. Ho attended Columbia

University, and received the dozros of A.B. there in 1930. He 18 tho son of

an orthodor jewish norchant, who is very wealthy, and who has almaye supportod

HAROLD, even though he did not approve of the radical views that HAROLD expreseed

In the 1930'9.

HAROLD went to Chira mediatoly after graduation fron Columbia, partly,

atleast, out of a desire to see atrange parts of the morld and to experienco

"adventure." He went out by way of Herall, and stowed away for part of the

voyage - elther betwean san Pranciaco and Honolulu, or between Honolulu and

Shanghai - Mr. KATSS does not reserber which. Anyway, this was part of the

"adventure."

In China, HAROLD met a South Alrican named FRANK GLASS, who was an "Intolloctual"

and a very interesting person. GASS mes a Leftlat, but not at all a Coiminist.

HAROLD took a trip up the Yangtae with GLASS in 1930 or 1931. At about this timo,

HAROLD becane a convert to protokylan, partly, at least, under GlASsis influenco.

Ho felt that "suffering humnity" required a "revolution" to set things straight.

Communism was too organized, and fifOlD was a complete individualist, and renctod

strongly against the organizationei set-up of Communisal, and 80 espoused Trotskylan.

He returned to Shanghal fron the western part of china, and ment to work for

---

## Page 115

14-011100

continued

This siVAs tons Agency: shortly aüer this, in Shanghal, he carried VIOLi ROBINSON,

aho was, like HAROLD, a mido-ced intailectual, This curriago probably took placo

In 1932. VIOLA was a great friend is iGNSS SIODIEY, the author of the Isttle Hymn

of. China and of other books dealing with the Chinese Revoiution.

in organisation called the Etina league for ivil Rights was formed about

1932. YANG CH' Lai was the head or this for Central Ching, and Dr. HU SHIH (later

Chirese Ambassador to fisshington) tas the head of it for North China. YANG was st

that tiro Secretary-General of the deadenia Sinica. YaNt was soon assassinated

by the Blue Shirts (at that time MIG KAI-SHEK's bodyguard). HAROLD ISHAGS had

boen an enthusiastic nember of the wins League for Civil Rights, and in the

-atsosphere of turmoil, niter the killing of YANG, when all leftists were under

attack by the Kuaintang, HAPOLD becase tho editor and publisher of the China Forum,

a magasine that published a number of controversial articles. The magazine was

protocted by the fact that the editor was an American, and therafore had extra-

torritorial rights. Yet the magazine was regarded as a "thorn in the flesh" by lis.

CUNIHAl, who was at that tine darican Consul-General in Shanghal. There were

various controversios - the printing shop was broken up by kuanintans strong-arm

men; the mili were refused to the ragazine; but he continued publication for

some

tina, and smugaled the copies out to the subscribers.

In 1933 or 1934, ISLACS bad & fight with AGNES SOULSY. It was an ideological

right, and therefore especially bitter. IsluGs and his wife left Shanghal after

this, and soved to Paking. There he acquired a Chinose translator named LIU,, and

there he settled down to write his back, ihe Tragddy of the Chinese Fevolütton.

This book "nails the Stalinists to the mast" and shows that they vera messing.

around with a situation in China which they did not understand. Very many people

who have read the book consider it excellart.

---

## Page 116

14-00000

=3-0

HAROLD ROBERT IS.LICS, continied

The book was completed, and ISAACS and his wife roturned to the United States

about April or say 1935, Innediately after this, ISAACS sade s papid trip to

Os1o, Normay, to see his hero, LiO! TOTSKY, who ras living there at thet time.

It was on this occasion that he mist have undertaken to translate TROTSKY's book,

Whither France? ISUACS then returned to New York, and went to work for the

HAVAS News Agency once nore.

At some tina in the lato 1930's, he became interedtod in New York polities,

and he sorked hard for NORMAN THOMAS.

By 1940, howèver; ho became disgusted with New York politics, and became

Interestod in the war, and in"bourgools lifo." He and his vifo had a baby at

about this time (their first), and ISAACS found he could write radio scripts and

got good money for them. Up to 1940, he had been living chiefly off his father,

but from 1940 on, ho begar to mike money. In 1942, he did a "Report to the Nation"

for CBS.

Soon after this, ho joined the Start of News-lleck, and in 194 was sent to Chungking

by that nagazine. Theire must have been a certain amount of trouble in convincing

the Chinese Central Goverrment that ISLACS had really changed since the old days

In Shanghai, but this convication was evidently accomplished, or ISAACS rould not

have received permission from the Chirinse Covernment to go to China.

IShAGS 18 a very smert ran indeed. He knows a lot: about China, and he knows a

lot about people in general. loreover, he is a great deal "smoother" and more

diplomatie nor than hè mas ten years ago.

---

## Page 117

14-00000

13 March 1945

t0:

From:

Lleutenant Colonel ROGER A. PEAFT

John I. Coddington g.J.l.

Subject: HARULD ROBERI ISAACS

HAROLD ROBERT ISANGS 10 nOM the correspondent of Nowsweok magaxine In

China. His herdquarters are in Chungking, but he evidently travels to unming,

Kweiyang, and other places in the course as hia dutios. He seemo to havo arrived

In China in his prosent capacity during the summer of 194l, probably in July.

Subjecò mes born in 1910, and 1s a member of a wealthy famlly. He bacame

a firmly convinced Trotskylst in his youth, and remained one till the time of

PearlHarbor. He is now regarded as a renegade by his former Trotstolst callengues,

because he has disavowed the principles

of world revolution, turned away from

Trotsky's taschings, and since 1939 has been writing patriotic propaganda for the

Unitod States Government.

He wert to China about 1930, and wrote two books dealing with Chinese

politics, Fise Yoars of Kuomintang Reaction (1932); and Tho Tragody of the Chinese

Revolution (1938). Both of these volumes axpressed the author'd trotskylat

point of vien, The firat was publlabed in Shanghal, and the second in London.

Neither was over published in the United States, and ISAACS sald that the

Stalinist Carnists were so powerful in this country that they tiere able to

provent the pablication of the Iragedy of the Chinese Revolution here. This

book received high praise from many serlous students of Far Eastern affairo,

Including G.P. Fudson, Pollo of All Souls College at Orford, and author of.

The Far East in Forld Politics, who said that ISAACS! book was the test one evor

arliton on the Chinese Revolution. Hudson is now an official of the British

Ministry of Information.

ISAACS' non-Communist and non-Trotskyist friends say that even during the

201-17441

Robert

---

## Page 118

14-00000

-2-

HAROLD ROBERT ISAACS, COntInued.

hoight.of. his Trolskylat career, ISLACS nover acceptod money from the group. Ho

was always open and above-board, and never ongaged in any conspiracies to overthron

established government.

Ho was attracted to the novement, they say, by shoor

1doal1om.

For a time in China, ISAACS lived Mith TIllman DURDIN, the China correspondent

of the New York Times, Who was then the mnaging editor of the China Proas. ISAACS.:

returned to the United States In the late 1930'8, and was for a time eriployed by

the havas Newa Agency, until the fall of France in 1940. In 1943, he was employed

hy Norewaek ma gasine. In Vashington, D.C., and resided at 4938 Newport Avenue,

Freiddship Hoights.

Publications

(a) Booke

Five Years of Kuomintang Reaction (Shanghal, China Forum Fublishing Co.,

1932), 136 pp. Library a Congress Call No.: DS 777-47.045

The Tragedy of the Chinese Revolution (London,

Secker & Warburg, 1938)

501 pp. Library ar Congress Call No.: DS 774.17

(b) Translations

lor Trotskll (Leon Trotsky, whither Prance, translated by John G. Bright

and Harold R. Isaacs. (New York, Pionoer Publishers, 1936). Llbrary of

Congress Call No.: DC 398.17

(o) Articles In Periodicals

Perspectives of the Chinese Revolution: a Marxist View, " Pacific Affairs

vol..8, pp. 209-283, Sept. 1935

"Job by Exports," Newswook, P. 30, 7 AUg, 1944.

"Surprising the Japs, " Newswook, pp. 35-36, 7 AUS. 1914.

.""Blowing the Top," Newsweak, pp. 45-6, 4 Sept. 194l4.

"Last night in Kreilln, " Newswook, pp. 31-32, 25 Sept. 194l4.

---

## Page 119

14.00000

MAROLD BORSET ISUES, contimied

"One Man's Plant asainst Corruption: the Story bohind tho Stllmell Incident, "

Newswoek, Do I, 13 Nov. 1,944

"Troupers of the CBI, " Nowstroak, p. 100, 13 Nov, 1944

"Ignorant Man and lodern espons: Insido Story as the Chinoso Army," Newsreek;

p. 44, 20 Nor. 1946

"Doath for tralyars," Nestock, po 36, 18 Doc. I961,

"Dor as tho Seloan," Newswack, PP. 26-27, I Jan, 1948

"first Truck to Nunding," Newswok, po 34, 29 Jan, 1945

"Ping Hao, Shouts of Welcome not First Convoy to Kunming, " Nensiook, pp. 35-36,

12 PeD, 1945

SI Files #25, 413: 6 October 2943

Books and Periodicals In Library of Congress:

---

## Page 120

14-00000

CONFICENTIAL

11. 1102.

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

690 FIFTH AVENUE

NEW YORK 20, N. Y.

10 March 1945

# 78324

TO

Major General William & Donovan

FTOD

Joha C Hughes

Subject

Fereld & Isaace

Pursuan: to our telephone conversation,

I asked

Mr DoVocchl of this office to check with Alan Grover, Vice

President of "Tine and Life". One of the men with whom

Grover works very closely knows Isaaos intimatoly. In

this man's opinios, Isaace 1s 'a very

gol1d and subatan-

tial cltizen, ovlodiable, hard working and an able cor-

respondent of good character.

He states

that he has re-

contly had occasion to connunicate with Isnacs and that bia

addregs ig!

Farold R Isaace

Nar Correspondent

U.S.?.

CT

APO 627

c/o Postmaster, New York

561-18.446

---

## Page 121

14.00000

OFFIÇE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

690 FIFTH AVENUE

NEW YORK 20, N.Y.

CONFIDENTIAL

Warch. s, 1945

MENORANDUR

TO:

F'RON:

lei

x78278

MP. SPENCER PIENIX

or.

Alan Grover, Vice-President of TIME, LIFT,;

at is recuest cheried with one o! the men in his or-

Ennization sho knows karold R. Issucs personally.

He told tw. Grover that tir. Isaacs, in his

opinion, is a very

solid and substantial citizer,

novledgable, hurd sorking, good character, and an

able correspondent.

liddress:

ir. Isaaes can be reached at the following

HAROLD R. ISAACS

Kar Correspondent

U.S.F.

APO

6÷7

CT

clo Postmnster New York, N.Y:

Ny. sr.-Pers-3

Bax/

201-18446

•.=s1

---

## Page 122

4-00000

SECRET

(man

pollar 1a,

DOCUMENT

TRANSFER AMO CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMANT IDENTIFICATION

Various reporta and newspapers clippings

relaiing to operations.

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH ON

China CLA-OF-E

SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

5760

7. YOUNCE CATPIONYMS.

"Box: 203

DATE OR INTO.

•.

ANALYST

JEP

CROSS ARFERNED TO THIS PILE

DATE. PROCESSIO

10.

DISSEMINATEO IN

21 Nov. 63

DOCIMENT

DISPOSITION

18.

DATE

TRANSI CARED TO

RI PILE NO.

PERIINENT INFORMATION

THE NORTH-CHINA Daily NEWS Saturday 6 July 35

ca dapold Bo. Isaico

an American and Publisher of the communist Publication

'China Forubm. YuAl Haueh editor of the chinese section, of the "China Forun

DATE

26 Auga 35

EVALUATION

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

1901-18446

FORM

867

SECRET

---

## Page 123

14-00000

SECRET

189 en

4il1091r1

DOCUMENT TRAMSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUUJECT OF DOCUMENI

RI FILE NO.

VICTOR MUSSIK?g

viait to AYOr.

IDINTIFICATION

ANALYST

JEP

CROSS MATERALO TO TMIS FILE

irudi.

wic.

3: "180L

1 1422

%. SOURCe

CArPIONYM O, DATE OF IMPO.

8. DATE PROCESSEO

1O. OISSIMIMATIO IN

83 Dece 63

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

18:. 99193929950 10

RI FILE NO.

TI. DATE

PERTINENT. INFORMATION

лАдЕ

26 Jan. 34

EVALUATION

Amoy between

An Under if he o dinet kik?

Jananose authorities, therefore, request for inic regarding the movements of Victor

Mussik during the afore mentioned period do ascertain if lo actually visited anoy during

this period

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867080-008

SECRET

50X-1844}

19-18)

---

## Page 124

14-00000

SECRET

¿ases Folled lo!

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUEJECT OF DOCUMENT

Attack on Bookstores

ANALYST

JAMES E. Plaugher

CROSS REFERRID TO THIS TILE

PreSTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

China-clop-l

3.. DISPATCH CE

sureir sec. sigior 9o.

15454-9 bax 200

S. SOURCE CRYPICTINTD..OATE dR INFO.

DATE PROCESSED

10.

DISSEVINATIO IT

21 Nov, 63

"DOCUMENT

DISPOSITION

DATE

RI FILE MO:

PERTINENT. INFOSMATION

A--DATE.

21 Dos 33

EVALUATION

The second incidend was seen in the entry by persons unknown on the night.

of November. I of premises of the Lev el Printing Co., Incorporated in New York

printers

and publisher of the "China Forum" a bi-lingual sagasine under the st editor-

ahip of an American named Harold R. Isaacs, which has dicided communistio.

sympathies.

FILE THIS FÓRM: IN FILE NO.

гоям

8 - 37

867

SECRET

80X-18446

(8- 18)

---

## Page 125

14-00000

SECRET

•DOCUMENT TRAMSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBULCT OF DOCUMENT

DISTRICH KUOHINTANG ISSES SERgET ORDER

FOR ANTI JAPANESE MOVEMENT.

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

CHINA-CIN-OP-L

3. DISPATEN DR SOURCE DOC.

A- DATE

4685&57.PD 4685с

I. SOURCE CRYPTONINE.

- Box 193 22 July 33

DATE OP INPO:

RVALUATION

AMALYST

JAES. E. Plaugher

DATE PROCESSED

3 Dec: 63

1O. DISSEMIMATEO.IM

DATE

CROSS ALTERACO TO THIS PILE

DOCUMENT

DISPOSITION

13.: TRANSFERRED. TO

DI FILE NO...

PERTINENT INFORMATION

The transportation of the China form has already been prohibited by the Nanking Govt.

Lecause the magasine had been publishing propaganda for the reds as well as attacks

on the National bort, that the publisher being all American citized named Isaac the

measures taken against the peper had no effect.

This time a strong protest will be

lodged with the Anerican Consulate agalast Isaac.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201+15446

867

SECRET

17•401

---

## Page 126

14-00000

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

SECRET

Pilled las

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

ACCLEST

IDENTIFIESTION

List of correspondents in Shangal

RI-SILE NO.

DISPATCH O!

sML-aCE.00c.

570802

тод.

1521

DATE OF INFO

TI. DATE

a. DATE

133. Feb: 33.

ETALUATION

ANALYST

JFE •

CROSS ALFERNCO TO-THIS FILE

DATE. PROCASSIO

10.

DISSIMINATED IN

13 Deco t03:

DOCÜVENT OISPOSITION

1D:. TRANSSERACO TO

RA-FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

among the correspondents listed one H.R. ISAACS (Auerican)address 509 Sbankment Apart

nents. Repr. of the HAVAS News. Agency.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

Д-87

867

SECRET

17•48)

---

## Page 127

4-00000

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

Copy of report by D. S. PITTS

cary of China "orkers! Correspondence,

Acidressed to Harold R. Isaaci

ANALYST

JEP

SECRET

111100.10)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS. REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

ILE NO.

CHINA QIA OPI

DISPATCH ON

2723

sOURCE DOC, sragoL

но.

BOX-179

DATe of into.

DATE

CUMUATION

CROSE ARPERNEO TO THIO PILE

DATE PROCESSED

1O: DIBSEMIRATEO IN.

83 Déc..

63

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION:

TRANSPCMUEO TO

21. 8118

по.

PERTINENT INFORMATJON

This document contains numerous references to Hanold Re Isaacs and hie wife. For further

Information the Interested parties are requested to see the document itself dio to

bulky nature the poor quality of paper reporduction 1s virtually impoasiblo.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867 1018

491t IS 446.

SECRET

18.488

---

## Page 128

SECRET

(Don. 90110d 101

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SOJECT OF COURNI

RI FILE NO.

NEW FORTZATION"

COLUMENT

IDENTIFICATIOY

CHINA-CIA-OP+

sova.r

106.

Дос.

4014

DATE OF iNTO.

17. Sept 32

KUALUATION

JAMES BoOpi sigher

DATE. PROCESSIO

3 Doc.

.63

D18BEM

880 18

DATE

CROSS DEFEARIO TO MIS PILE

DOCUMENT. DISPOSITION:

18.

TRANSFERRID TO

RI FILE NO:

PERTINENT INFORMATION

In contimation of a previous roport on the subject of the New York "Nation", I haro

to state that further efforts to purchase this piblication have proved successrul,

and I attach hermith three coples, respectively dated ruly 6, lug. 10 and Aug 24,1932.

from a cusory perusual of these editions, the "nation"s political polier appears

to bd-a socialistic nature, openly professing oppositon to the Republican and Democratic

doctrines prerailing throughout the United stain States, and advocating support for the

Cocialist Party's find candidate-Norman Thomas at the forth coming Presidatia)

elections.

further articles appearing in these editions are nothing more nor less that sourritous.

attacks on the fiepublican President of The USA.-Hertert Hoover®

Harold i saacs nailing list has been carefully persudd, but no mention is made

of the "Nation" or any of the Poople connected with it.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

301184461

д-81

867

SECRET

11. 001

---

## Page 129

14-00000

SECRET

SUOJECT OF DOCUMENT

John Mo Hurray

DOCUHENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE

NO.

CHINA-QIA op 1

DISPAICH OR

SOURCE DOC.

3703

Y. SOUNCE CRIPTONYM O, DATE OF INFO.

TO. DISBEMIMATED 1N

18. DATE

A. DATA

BYALUATION

AMALYST

DATE PROCEESCO

3 Do. c.

63

DOCUMENT

DISPOSITION

IP. CROSS REPERCO TO THIS PILE

TRANSIERRED TO

RI PILE NO.

PERTiNENT INFORMATION

During the Summer of 1932 Murray 1s known to have buen associated with the following

local communist sympathizers: H.R. ISSACS.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867

SECRET

18.001

---

## Page 130

Mado Ai...

sued artes

i lee File

5. 2718/16

I PAUCE

Tie No dad, RECASTRY.

SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL POLICE.

REPORT

vey Interneiloral - Detrac

D.S.I. Golder

Fortied bye.

.. I TOTTLE POTENti

a Connunit projuganda organ pulls hod in Ne: York; Ü.S...

Em Golda

• D. S. I.

3. C. (Speclaz. Branch) •

$2,

Please btrae knen what has

happened to lease.

detained by the Chine lie it eling

01 tuna

Đig

wix/25..

+205-7-212-1

1841

---

## Page 131

14-00000

KATRACE

PRiY

93₫

I Brosk alti the Chineso Sta1n1a20

to tho Central Comittoo of the Chinous Cominiat Party:

me tro-year perlod of du extra-urganizational collaboration

mth.

Chineão Communiot party Diso dodo to an end

and

eno anine Borin milch 1 sounded and edited during that time

não bean torood to suspend publication.

in the incorest

of our

molo novenent so moll ao in. my

conalder

personal intorous.

28ooF oF lead cre and pold le

guaponglon...n

XXXXX

Pror almet the tory taglarire ol ty actio toss

ah 1 ch

I data

fron

the

tined

bejan

roportiro

0790:0.10

Ching: 1n a

thongel ve8

cornundet way - a numbar of susationg predanted

increasingly sorible

unds originally Irom. my discovery of

tho grood distortiona

and

aragerstione

wn 1ch

I found to ;bo

charadiariatic ef

communiar propajands

1n. China and abrosd.

I define pro-

pazunda as

the

skillful

faots

accurate and wholly

roporting of the

Interpretition

iinked

truthful

incisive, purposive

plan

o8 action.

for dealing

with

lacta 1n a revolutionury

nay .

I.la31ned. this

tho

fron the

lite

and work of Lenin

and

coarades tho taught

us thät the truth

солев.

fron the

thenpolves i.d

that.

only 118a8ter

can

{50 m

6011154

then 1180.

I baro

norer learned to the

contrary trat it

revolstionary

duty.to nork

In any other

way, altroigh !

soOn

found that

the present-day Communiut jary press.

makes a practiao of

datingulahirg bettoon

pro puzanda and

o.f

truen.

exaggeration and distortion sout s'riking.

to me vera nuturally

those

which applied to

China.

bocruBo

hero I could check allogitions.

• ]

down

it th known facts..

I firat

the Ignorance

incapacity of

indi-

rutllet.

felt that communist

accurate

about

14

hecordingly with a friend 1

they

set

could ict tran.

up an

mall news Dervice.and

weekly bullcting

independent

OvEr

to papera ail

the norld giving

Bont

brief,

charp.

that

was folng on.

This

factual

Accounts

of

1r. the Sall of 1931 after z

rezurn from tho area ci the

real Central China floode of

that suncer.

I acarcely

underutcod tren why thia servico

failed to

sacure any

resconad fron the comaniet press.

abroad.

After about three montho I lad to

susperd it for

lact.

of support.

It

sloply nidn't eet püblished arcert

1n a few 'oreino

which

papera

1ncludirg.the

Nay York

official Coomunlas party.

M1l1 tart.

it van't long

deeper. e tudy

before

I began

to sercelve.

of ircornational renta and tre

Chinede

rovolution.

congloter? thralia ran

through

the

diatortiors and

exa¿guratione trich 1 round

not

1a

orig

•an.

Casual

Icrorta

of

pronuncianentces

current aranto tur

che gol em

IntO by

delocates

tetono

plenura of dio

fIGE

k.C.C.1.

I diacovered frat Diese

coparturos

the inith

rado rocedner; by tru official presido

that

over since

tha

catnatrople of l9ãg a niches, upour-

rerolutionary

Igverer.t

to tony drink

8.a8

been narci. int

Somoid in

08 0912428

of pover under tre

leadororip of tha

that

party.

I diucevered

посомбаги сеслцве

Wid prested

and

alorig

w117. 18 111. 1h8

Caalc

tonete of 880

---

## Page 132

politica

land

being

purauod by the Consunlot Income:tonal.

CosTunist

Chind.

cunnal

to 81ve

malually cared

so you by

the

do sen).

runbilli

Iro.

partlu ulus anoidents (tho cilfully faloe pletaro yiion

of: riae outtan

mill

atri ko

1n

Shanghal. in

dron to

the

point

of triano, doing 18 to

January

1932,

Zebruary

lolghton.the

tho

sharedol on

il von

mar)

of tho workera

rola 1n

Than hai

to highofloun genoral 1 zations 11k0

the

atalanent recondly mudo before tie alonur of tho

B.C.g.I, that

the

с.с. Р.

hoo

"Ton over the majority

of the Minoso working

oldoo and the sousiatry".....

In denying the promonoo

afi alent rovolutionary

upourga. (1:0.

viat

unanized maich tonard tro gol-

zure of.

I respoot luote sade atill clourer

po chapa

when

comparad

facto

and 11 guros of tho

monator

mada movement

of lio 1925-27 poriod.

The

of

leaderonip in 1927. were

primarily resonalbl

capitation of that

Brast novenent

and

astons have bour drim

frang there

•venty

day,

theso errura,

monatrously accumula

tragedias

of

today..

:111.

responsivio for the

purDUBUS Of Our COm-

paM son

hore,

let

xaaplo the d1ngla Tact

that in

1926

In

этон

i .

the r.g

sere 257 atrikoo.

In

1932

there

ranenber that on

tine a vo

of

the

workero'

r in Shanghat in

Heroh,

10,27.

handicraftg-

mon

i there

vero

ООО по гквтв.

and potty

he strauta lientine mim

ВЕДВ

#in

tradei

han do

for

de

far-reuching, political

character.

A clogo

on tire

country 1n

the

latter hall

thirtieth

no thist losa than on-

of that

other diaputos

nu

ongaged in striras and

that al n00t

Invarlably

magg

outs

the

deman

mon th

and

ensivo damandy agningt

and lookou

ur, the lack of coheo

ilvo

leaderahip

of ton

rtsento of the

some.

or. 1n

0r

even

ong

group' of factoried :

ots timed

1&0

he sost el ementary.

organization

ary case lad to desdaning

failure

and

"labor

loaderg"

and

ragal by the yellow

of tie kuo uln

Tung.

In

1925

the shooting of

tudento ty Baltiah

pollde

in shanghai

touch

-uff los & general

strike union paralya

und mich was

seconded

sy ups thy

tidal vaveu over

str

broke like a sorlos of

the

entl ro

country. In Jaruary 1932,

Thon the

Japangda: Imporlallats

uaed the Shanghal

international Bottlement do a bage for operatione

the

11 vas

of.

tone of thousande of Chinese,

not a anglo striko

Intorruptad the noral courso of

the

pubileor other corrided. in that settlenant..

In.

tho. factortea

there were no

otr kes

but a largo scale

lookout to

workora

which tho overwholming majority of shanshal

subaltead without protoet....

In the arao of the

aldosprand

but daolated and

Individual

ando of poasant upsloingo,

and this includes

the Rod

artled in Xiangal,

the

Loadorabip

of a

atrong. norking alasa zoveront before

thay can

have

The Red

in

thoir reatrictod

and surroundod argas and si tia th01r

rodources haro roujit heroically agalnot the

Kuomintang

attacke upon tro?.

But. unt11 tho Kuo yin

Tana la shakur fros 180 bulvarto in tho Inverlallat-

controlled

HOrkING

of rerolutionary erlunpa rossino

olace contora, chols pruspace

recaBourily dis.

1n

tho

fiction. 9h08

thabe araleu

hare proletarian

louderabia badaudo iralridua

no kara, undaubradly

---

## Page 133

14-00000

loadero

auperior quailly and courago.

have been turn

5 гот.

trieir factories

i-dima

u.rrero and

Beni. com

occuay hoy positione in the Ned lority d18-

triote and in ta Ked arnles tronoelvou.

Inducu, thia

CoMmOn praCtisE Of axtINCtINg the mdt COMBElUUD

ліла ро-

grespire morking claea elamonte from Voir JOTi1rg ClABB

erviror.ront and

sending than doon le the led @sorriors lo

8. good

Irdox to the criairal trarapooltion ul emphasla

which ras helped paralyse

tna morking class movement la

the.c1t108.

If tro

malte forrot dodon't carry off tho

workera"

lendera

the C.P. Cood und tide

done ao 1n hundreda of cases.

as thay arloe Thie helps in no cnall

part to explain uny hag has also bein impoosible

to

mobi-

•lize 'a genuire

na88

antd-Japanese.novcront.in

tro faco of

milttasy aggresalon

and

thy

Min Tang hao

succeeded,

ty

the shite Terror of tro

Kuo

f1lling

Da 08

Brurce and di-

numorible prisons sit.

downing tha

the

anti-imperi

d doud and living,

tcrard.

the

organization

20 l

and pavir.g

for

of

SUCh

tha.

wAy

the

ever-increasing

choruachrento

The parts har not.

r.1

bitter and

often

Her gripped

imporial1ato.o

inarticulato

the people for their opp

hutred

aster made oute

the

-mQ8BEB

sections

essure and

trio ircludos largo

of the loms ro

by

ty

buurgeo18le mo

could te

HO I

Buocoodful nade pressure

[гом

Del On.

Thia 10 becuuBa

they party has

fuiled

to

tranelatetha realities of overy-

day

eventa

Intu ita program

and

tactics.....

But procicely bocruse ut

all

tha

coate I desired

to

carry on

Forem! a Ofen

struggle

the

cornón

onemy - againat the luo

Hin

Tang

abrinct

I deduloualy arolded bringing

anit

tie imperiallete.

theso lebuie into

the

colums at the paper, increauingly againat my

botter

Judgment.

"I lened

over far

backward

respect.

Tria exprooded itself in mauy

the current dissueu

with

uh 1 ch

170

had

to

deal.

I sak you to

recall the whole uphill fight which the

Porun waged on bahalf

of

. Paul

and Gerturd

oprirg and sumer

0f 1932

during.

which

Ruegs

in. the

time

Humned agairat the emphasis.

which

repratedly

mas being

pleced

on the

"¡egai".

aapocto of

the

caBe.

and. the

the

"negotiationg" nith

the Kuo Min

Hang to

detrinent

of maay

preasure

and

he capitalization

of

tho

political purpoads.

You paid 11p service to

C830

the

particuiarly

here

1n

Mina

need.

mags

but

fact

the

al1t108"

and

tie

futile nagotiationa remaired the

defende.

Unit 1}

in

the

major pillars of

very

end 1 finally

J. wäsn't

even permitiad to. give

rebelled

Ruegg bla honorable

kind

rientrul title -socretary of the Pan-Pacillo Trade Union

Secretariat!

Yet al thuugh

I felt the etrugglo

for the

Ruegge mad

being serl.ualy. handicapped by tho tactica

being purgued. !

oarried

on

the

fignt with ail

at my command

and. you sill recall

that it mao

I who

created

the local defende committeo

and

was chiefly responalbio

för the widespread preda proçagan da

canpaten ar.d

tre

considerable

вут pa thy

which

se aroused.

Tet ito cirictly

non-political attitude which

•at "the

trial

was forced to

lin contrast to the highly polltical attitudo

of hia prosecutoro!)

nue in my opinion one of tre major

for.

the fate

arch he and his vito mere cindoned.

I aok you to

recall

too

miole period or

and

actiolties

the

organi-

of the

Chira Lesyue

for Civil Rights.

8500 Decêncer 1932 de Juno 1933,

I gave full play

in

which I todi an actire.

so thie hybrid Loague und

baalo criticiane

I often volood to you and

arloh in

the

and

mr: 1 ch

mere arolly

Yang Caler. In Jund that your.

I box jou

110va l dot sortt in August

and sopicabor 19i1, on doe

---

## Page 134

14-00000

subjeat of the "Ant1-üar

Congrend" which

at. your

в росі fic

rejuest i. did

no: rubllah.

Inarcid,

ч щу

I publiahed to foul

rot of Marley&

isreut escaly sints play to the true saote about

farcical Junker mich

had

convinced me that

tho

policien unich gave 1t

birtt.

do not one singlo it. it

advance

наг.

to international

atrujele against Imperiallat

On ono occasion - and this at lount I can

tako

comfort in - I passirely roslated then you requested

to melte and publish a glanderous attuck on Chon

Du Halu when he mas cunderned to 13 years Impriadament

by

the

Kuo Min Tang.

Your roquest was specific.

not.to..desl with

the

mich

had

brought

Chen

Du

Halu fron taird. 2:o

ader of.the..C.P.. 1r. 1927

being

1n

only

loader of the Chinaso

to. arring

togetter a

Oppos1:ion

in 1933.1

vilo series of labels

an errort. to expiain so y

tho Kuö lilin Jang. even

lopriauliod

•Ців ICGй

or the .lett

Orposition.

you know,

that atta

8A 9

never

written

of publiahed.

Again in Deceni

'ет 1933

upon

my.

return from

Fukien, you spe: ifically desanded

trat 1 set agide

the.

results of my

personal

Investigationa.in

Poochow

in ordar to urito

my. as ¿nature!) an utterly

en

your

behalf (but

over

attack

•on

tho-left

baseloss and

Blande rue

Opposition.

you charged at

that

1 me

that

Xou will revall

that

prominertly identified vita

the

"Trutskylato" were

up in Fukien

by

Crien

new govammont sat

Miry-shu and

Tour

Ting-kai. You

lumped the Left Oppogition

with the Third Party und

the

sogallad Social

Democrate

among

satellites of the

Fukien

the

militariato:

ritte bourgeo

"ng as

much

to

satiafy myself on

this

very

polrit.as

to perform a

=loalon for you.

that I

cown. to

Poochoir and

spent too.

weeks

there

and

learned through direct. con-

tact mith dozens of people

the. Left Oppositión

888

prominently

cuncemed

that

and cleurly jpposed.

the Foochor regime.

ren't place here to

the relation&

the

to trie

dis-

fukion goverinent or

tho

chort-lived

character of tha

"nejotia-

ti one*

nich mere guing

on down

tore.

The importunt,

thing here

is that on

=y

retur you demanded that. I

write

slarders which

flow

in

the

face of

I mysalt bad learned.

everytr.ing

It is interesting,

a8 a side.

light on your methoda in

conceive it.

laotional

strife

AB YOU

that your represchtatlie in Poochou sent

back a report;

through ge,

tronically enough,

that

one of the nost prominent et the youthfui pseudo-

radicals

leading.

be exact, pas a

It 80

happened that

had mat.

ard häd sereral

lengthy interviews

with fu

and-by

the time I

left Poochor I understood his pcaltion

his personality

exceedingly

and

Trotskyiat ds Hal Lan-jang io:

demandod that I linore my ou murledge

tol yet you actually

was as much. a

at the men

and

1n

ay artiole

OD

juklen set him

down

88 &

•Trotskyist°

that

I was

faced

on.

the one hand by your

demand B

I grite

falsehooda

to

Buit your policies

and on

the other by

ay

deep

deal re to

forth

tha

actual

facto about the fposition's attitude comra

the Fukior. regime:

But

once more,

to preserve

ahrede

of our

relationahin.

I drove a

the

miadle course

and did

neithor, joarro

the shole

question

out

08

my arusolo.

---

## Page 135

14-00000

forced an

Nevortialcas. abru.flr 1n Januory:81r.is y3a5 gou

ultlaatus upon ze

and

subso,sintly forced

the

brouk in our relscionely becauso l codid not and miuld

not, at your danand, dovelte the

China Porum to

wh. 1 ch

I could ror and do

policiea

rot. bel deve

Intereote of the

computlule rich tho

chinese

retolution and thie international

prole tarlan rerclusion.

det agide

I could nut,

at yuur dared.

the convictiona to wich I had litcrally beer

driven

by

Chira,

tho stinging laan of catastrophic

events in

Gormany

and ithe world over.

Intereet in

Chinese

Partscuiarly my deep

made

:18 1m.000101e.for

eventa during the laat three joara:

purt to

finally.

ive active

polleles.ard tactico

sup-

hose disastrouo eftecto

moro being

events.of

a thousandfold

confirmed for

queetiona

day.

ty by the

every wulf,

I could

which strike

nut linore

ot6

whole

of our

atructure of

work and

cho

the

Dospite

thie Pret

revolutionary future:

Britire

Inteth.

questione

are

mcking

ralße tham in

print.

denied my right te

that I attack

de:tanded more.

You deranded

anybody

who

in d

you call

people

"counter-revolu

primarily

tre pe.yle

Irotckylety"

to are

revolutionary

was!

Lucino You

- the.

Da!5

blens today

in. a

become

& starcotyre

for

dessnd

fearless.

trat the China

Forum

the

glandete

pol

eB

whioh d

could

and vulgar factional

neither

In

reply

my

at

me

the

11 c8

questions

China

then nor now ua party-to.

you simply quoted

and hal

bs ck

Inprecorr.

certain

Yóu

been so used

to reading.

'amount of ete

"Tor propaganda purposee

went, on

amazingly to

• пореввагу...

and

and ie

knum

base

the

ture facti

our

policies

ол

them.

dery

not on trage

А пок

slant on

exaggera-

sodern-

you

BAY JOLE CUrIOUS

thinga.

They

C.I, tac'ica!. Facts,

have

to be

around

tu med.

arid an urd

and

their true.

exanined

nature

closely until

turn them

Thie

farl

and do

truble 1a you

quickly

thịng

11kg a d1za11y

thụt thay

turn into

tuiting

SODA

top

wian-fulf1llingmigrepreaentationa

of raroy • or at dest

То шу

questione

Platritsky and

on

the B.C.C.J

Gorbany jou quoted leovert,

ing

a famous resolution

that the collapse

declar

the

he German party

German workara

and the

future correct

on

the pagt, present

policien

based

81 such ter

ro

right

offer

of the C.p.c.! You

and

critical comment

declared I had

opportunitic

on

the

fore ton

mat notably on the entry

and dosestié

danger, valy.

policies of

nattoholiat

bastè into

of the U.S.S.R; on

the

U.S.S.R.

perialiat intrigue.

the diajusting

a straight

cofridore of im-

To the contrify.

fanningly to.roudla ans hall the

Hag Liviraly.

douster di

china,

policles which have

Gersany and eldeshere and

-аґ&

sant

inte the racuum of nati naliat

rapidly

leolation Eron Lee dorid-zade proletarian coremont race

vas: to do, 10

on

the front

mit: by publichirg Stalin's

hia infalliuility.

to

all and

take up

before all.

Trotskylen®.

cudgele

againat

That

"counter-revolutionary

tae

sormation - to ralse

vas to da tha main point or my

re-

body

no questiona mysell and alander any-

alad who did do.

board in

In reply to your danund that I submit to an editorial

order that

thesa editarlal

polleles

should

effectirely put into practiae, I offerad (1) to continuo

publication strictly do

differences

alth you

meenuhile arguing

throw

in diaousalone on

out sy

tho colume of the forua open

the side: (2) 10

to a Ganeral discusalon

---

## Page 136

14-00000

of all

brade

rero:ullenass

rud:diero, Ml u. Sree play to

mortlodox ag

HO1 01110C0X

If your

were

correct.

1 urgued,

•se mould te

you to hare such an o portunity to display

thalr

brillianco alongdido the

puny offorta

of your crildcoi

(3) 80

publish

orthodox roug

and tiens but to

Maarte

for myself the rizht to coment and criticiso.

TheBe

repeated offers

yOU

repestedly. refuuod.

You

offered to aircuss thee quentiono a1th ne veroally 1?

in to meanwhile I thren

Porur

open to yuur eil torial

board.

My other proporala dere intririculo:

Give

the

Forun'a readere a

chinco

to подг

"counter-rerclutionary"

Tierpointe

?

Never

ravolutIonary

that!

Icould'only.dioglay.ry

rould

talk: things

per over unce and to youen saadi:

well 11.0.

11

showed

apriné..

ahen 11 all bent

18fH

tory a0ap16410n

your ilampuint). I could

for an

cúscal: onal trlp

to.

Sovict

Union thore

would

vecime con

vinced of

the error

of ny

Tn

other surds, tru montad

my signature on &

• with'

the.agount left

blank

for

you

to

in.

You.

put thie in

the pomm of

an

ultimutum

and

Jou told

Re

that 18 1

di d.

anything

but

accopt

would footruith anter the comp of

the

"counter-

revolution".

I hid

to refuse

the se

I-hud to refive to

lcnd myself to a alandercis

and bagele:is

strudle nguinat

the International.Loft

Opposition..

I had to refuse to

land apacc

to the

und uncritical

nauseatingly

fauning praise of stalin

reception

of

Staliniet pollcica

which

characterize

the Connuniet

I had

party

to

reluau

to

tako

preda

tre

world over.

ahel ter

in the cold

and

draughty

a 'pty

opaco 8

which

stretch berind

and early

traditions of

the

the impreusl-re facade

Commurist Intemutionul.

vould

11ka

to

tho

Soviet Unton fos a Mult cre duy..

but i

had to refise your

offer on

I hid

to

refuse,

short,

to bacono

prostitate in

the name

of tho revolution.

In

tho

endl.

I had

0

rafude

turn

over to

you.tie

printing

and

plant

had

bül: du i th

0o much sain

strüggle

boo-udd

I cons

dorad

it not your prujorty

but the

proporty of the

marking

clays corumant.

I could not

curry on tho

Porun

myself,

for lack of.

Iinanclal resourcus und

Daciube

of heavy dobts contriotad,

I disposed

of the plunt and sued avery fortiing uf tho

proodora over to more l non considor the vice intorasto

our movement lie.

It was with a deed ind holding

bitternada

that I had to seo

tie

Porun yu

doin under tha

of. those won I had considered conrades,

uhon for.

to joare it had suught off all' 1te many enordos on

the

outsido.

Yet with it cano the roulization thit rig hiive

build anon over the ruina sou havo pruught.

The revur

luts on and

the bullding. or

our future moves

foraurd

ind

when se trample dum, tha dafengea

of our onesido ne shall

arusb underfoot avarytning and avarybody

our day.

aycophantis,

that stilde In

blind allegiance to a nine,

27

eapty facade,

i tom

and ahredded

preatige car. laad

us foruard.

Only unosorring fidelity to

our sual and

ac:178

struggle comard thia end in th

the marione of a

cortact and

roatat polltica:

line mill lift eu

dolust to ultizato

alctury.

TO

tnia atreggle

Iahall con-

dadicato all

energies.

Peipinji

@ina, May 20,

1934.

Marold R. IüiACS.

---

## Page 137

14-00000

ISAACS

COrRIES

1931-3936

China (D:'B 150:)

1954 Harold Rolent. Isaacs winken MiT, Canter fun latreeti Studre (don

"fra Tears of Huon'ntrn Rection", a 13. roce porchlet pulished

n 1032 at Sangini.

lists

ISAACS as Faitor.

The ramphict corcists of reprints of articles mich appenred in the

"China

Forun" by Maronymius nuthors and collaborntor:".

the carphlet donouncos the hurrintong and

SiKANG Kal-shek for niloged massacro of 1tr politienl opconents, chicfly Co-muniots, Ir. arior

Ptiat the sirocolsio might contino to rule ani the isporinlints to raw their tribute fros

thie capitalinition of human miser!".

Chinese Cominists are seen as tho liope où the future.

ISÁAOS co:st'ruos to resido it 333 Central Ford Test, it, nad 1s emplosed as free larce Jovenal

ist, as o? 1? iny 53.

DE B-2.71,26.

ISAACS

Dogsiel

201-18446

Sitangini Lancipal Folico Flies, 2 135, Floto # ITT. Filo Iú-4-3-55

101,11 uny 1:50. ignos Smallos file, 201-414

7864, 28 Fob 1951. Enclosing info re Richard SOGE gathered fros FBI Interview

vith ISAAC In Amril 1950.

11880; 11 Sopt 51, 201-6556-1 Prosantly living in NYC:

-15017, 15 Jan. 52; 201-6556-b; no ney info.

-11123, 20 Ree 1051, c0l-n0ernl, Sold somber d° an Aid Cormittre to the Seco

of the Ten Recitie its iea trian Secretariat (NiLanS) in Shangraielars

dear Sion, Frock GlASs.

Shanghai Municipal Folico Files, 105-1811, 16-4-2-37, 5 "eb 49°

173. 1l darent, 11r.a

1747, E JAn 1952, 201÷029042 Le APTya, 10:71s Lowls

127426-12 June 53, 201-14446-4.

---

## Page 138

ISRACS, H

Probably Hurold ROBETT

. @ JACO3. FBI think that there is a possibllity that the JACOB, an unidentified

young aner jourm list in Shangin! in 1931,

72 who was a mentor of the SORGE notwork

in chine night nossibly be Identical w1th ISAACS; ISAAOS

tricolf has aduleed that

ho dor

not belicie that no could have been the indiv to mon sorde ravo tho covarni

JACO3.1

78614)

addResses: Thay. 1953 - 333 Cental Baut WesT, NYC:

-27426.

178

sprairi

-162-1c11, 10-4-2-51, 5 reb S9: Shanghal Municipal Fol Flles.)

(over)

---

## Page 139

14-00000

ISRAUS

The July so 1952 1suue of the in Times under = Sharglui datelino or 29 July 1932,

statos tiat Harold & ISAACS,

an inerican citicon was vamed by the US Consill General in

Shangias that i e US nay withura ius aria-peratoric rights @d allow him to bo triod

in a chineso cort ISmos then the coito: or tho " Cara foru," had violently attacked

Ching; Erai Sci, cailing him,

anong othur things,

" a butcior." Tie article Muther

statod that IsMi'S vas an associate of ignes sublai,a: correspondent for incricur. news-

paparsi

Preceded the GrANICHES, as editor of'the Volce of China". Vrote an article "I Breek.

With Stalinisn":-which gave a candid elucidation of the Coum. financial backing of the

#Voice: of China".

-4385, 7 Feb., 52

"Ono farold Fobert ISlicS was born 13 Sect 1910; jeg tall, med build, br oyes, &

blach vair hair brisied back.

Born in iNC, ire citizen. Editor & publisher of the

China Form. Has secy of NOiLDiS Defense littee & re-ber of Society of Freinds of USSE

Arrived in Chine iron Harfle on 10 Deg 30 & joined editorial stuff of Shanghai Evening

Post and Mercur

On 12 June 31, took trip on Yanetse with C.F.GLASS, susp Sov agent,

wrote his flarcea he decided to turn "Red! as a result of talking with, GLisS. The 2

returned in dug & took up residence at i2S veihaivel Rosd. Started printing Forun later.

l'arager of Level Printing C., Inc in fY Stato & oured 407 of its shares. Enployed with

Havas devs. Arency. ISIACS married Miss Vola 903INSO: Sect 32. Lived in Apt 204, Embank-

ment 8ldr., Shanghal. In 3 Jan 34 Subj visited Noilaist tho were on hunger strike in

prison. Subj's parents ärrived in Shanghai 14 Jan 34 Sieät 20 Feb for Harscilles. Subj.

pr: lished art in low Militant, orran of MY Districts forker's Party attacking STAL.I!.

ISAACS vas also lecturing on Jazzi,

China, and USS? & lar Srisis In Far East.

(205-1911, 10-1-2-37, 5 Feb 59: Shanghal Municipal To: Mles.)

Lan du in, e the quy to e peen is dull there

Les into see. Is ill see fare tomsen

---

## Page 140

LEYS

Cantid

of

Crinn in

Prone!

of.

- trenche dontri

1.dp:

-list fort

taranter trainind

•dark ina.

sprouted

mit

Father state! to te iS told dos anemiry

183

caront charante

Partit learn doct

"15-a".ra9,

En"ormen

trip armorie for vice

5n8 1-38

1193?:.

at le and erintented with Mille? filt,

she lee nitred that in le departe perred men teen lifer nattei.

According to APPaLiA, Sublim

author of "The tragedy or tle Chinese "ernlusion" and

APPSI!A! net Sibf tiru Alexander BIC: A:; Sub) wa

the first caltor o° the CCP paper of wilch

AP: "I'A! lter was to become editori

5:2-1L747

The book "jew Cycle In Asia" by ISAACS, pub in 1947 by the Institute of Pacifie, "elationg as a

collection of the official texts of various treaties and agreerents arong South Asian and dest

ern poners during. the perild of firi II ard later.

ISAACS supplios a brief editorial introductias

to these tarts which is apparently non-political in nature.

His articlo "kKorea and American

Forld Policy" appears In the hugust 7, 1950 Issue of tho "Nen Republic", The article advocates

withdranal of US su port fron French eolonial forces in Indochina and recognition of Red China

In hope of driving a medge betueen Russia end Chinese Cormunists, DiB 25069, 12 Harco 1953,

201-18:46-3.

---

## Page 141

ДЕСЯ

• "1929 pu

so film in

rings'

"l .

ironc.

Calo-Inl

"o:"

doronir.s

nist fait.

on destind

1119

te man bad to meet come do pa Karanter

lasma dalla lad de Me a 9

wind tas

$197.

Mhe lee ele El'ele Gentle Are Me A Man Green entel.

W9-13'3

Accordine to Arpnindi, subl in andro: of "The Propody Of tie Chiirere revalution" and

the first oiltor o:

Ai. "I''A" lter uno lo becore ed!tor.

she CCP paper of wtich

D2-14747

Tha book "Hen Cyc)o In Asia! by ISAACS, pub in 1947 by the Institute of Pocifie

collection of the official texts of various treotics

sclations os &

orn powers during tho perild of Fl II ard loter.

and egrectents onong south Asian and leste

to thens, tarts which 1s apparently son-political in naturc.

ISRACS supplios a brief editorial introduction

Horld Policy" appears in the August 7, 1950 Issue of the "Nen Republic".

Hia article "Khores and herican

"The article adrocaton

withriramal of US su port fron Frerch colonial forcos in Indochina and recognition of Rod China

201-18446-3.

in hopo of driving a modeo botrien fussia end Chineso Commmiats. D:B 25069, 12 March 1953,

---

## Page 142

to these taxts which is apparentls non-political in nature.

Borld Folley" appeers in the hugust 7, 1950 1sBue of the "Nem Republic".

The article advocates

witbdrawal.of US su; port fron French colonial forces in Indochina and recopnition of Red China

In hope of driving a redge betucen Russia end Chinese Cormunlota. DiB 25069, 12 March 1953,

201-18446-3.

00000-tL

---

## Page 143

14-00001

CIA INTERNAL. USE ONLY

SECRET

TO

RI/ ANALYSIS SECTION

FROM

PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

¡ DATE

1-26 1ug. 57

АСТЮМ

чита

FL/2/C5

ROOM NO

2507-3

.110M

TEPHONE

8574

INSTRUCTIONS: Furm muN ti npred or pridirl in block lestera

ACTiON ta lis 301 number. sume anil ütimtifine dula in the spires provided. All knon aliers and variants (including maiden name. il

are unable lo compilees:

li six intenrifing dela sarins with the alias verd a separatr form mus he used. drier UNAVÖll firms you

SUCTION i list coptinum re piduora, if exciened. I ree nine is senutive, obtain 208 number from 201 Cuntend Drali and complie

con 1 and Sarcion Ill: Da e operat furra rair thr 201 number and complir Srclion ll and Sortion 111. Submit ract firm erjarainti

SECTION Ilt To in ramustrerel is all rasri

RIMENTIVE

коминніт

SECTION I

8444

ISAACS, Äarold: Robert

(Titts)

N-T:

(Past)

(larka)

i DE

BASA DATE

3Y COUNTRY OR MATE O CAN OR TOWN CO MIRA

1• 101

7.

OTHER IDENTIFICATION

V.з.

OCCUPATION/POSITION

Correspondent of Newsweek magazine in

China (1945)

SECTION "1

¡ OCC/POS. TOO.

NEWS-

COUNTEY ON RESIDENCE.

COMMENTS. CHIN 8

PSFUDONYAR

ACTION DESA

•SECTION III

IT E SECOND COUNTRY ONTEREST

THIRD COUNTRY INTEREST

PUNCHED

000

Ports tho

1 Ота. 36

831 Us serous odes

LESTECTIO FELL

SIGNATUR

1201- 184462

Intolare la Gundlach

CIA INTERNAL USE ONL'

12a

(38)

---

## Page 144

14-00000

aulicasio

LiniA

661.18%46

yal diou

•Mieles

:B2os211010

roralci

2132

so Neo don aziati i172 0 (000do la sess.

19 5000, 891. Des 1830, Morted for Basebal

g0)8on.juursa1108 01800.0900

sicons (nIls cooll

alom

J.a010

80).

Dir Ca:Lia (ale.

1321.8

Isucs, marold Rosait

"Condoe srorotrito lo dieneral erao la dell seo in 1a80

vallonod no parler.

or chine

803-8702110 tele 81

ori saio

" roba dI Dãe la toso.

1r9: 120

Ales

14. dag, 1952

durbar of !

8951

celer tese (104?). la donoders

7148 818L1008A7T-1947. 4108.

1977 a

of artiodes 28 sei DO

bourrola

Воо

333

aral

0f. 00a. (13).

Trulled la l das s

dos. in

io istrido i trold orere

(013415091)

le 8.118,2111

sa- 28 J: 0100

ro;oma

Mio

AMor eas un lor

balot sal fini

anlal farty fron

1949) fra

ailton for torosped

oraLlIant

1611111544

in tou Terk. 01l0 010 and con suller

of cornaction. och MilalTo Budes.

no sollomine t1l081

Bot cives

ant tha 11l na interalloral, horno incles, ot al,

Cecil, frast al.

+9D7775

154:C3, Ilarola Labore (acal'd)

Aul: of of Tha tragasy

wooks.

lo 85.

AACEOUPRENERS

Dos

Porta e dati so e o la botte te ranes (el o or, 10s

83 8or. 3838

500 588-22838, 11800-1953; dabposte Eda TASAT (80) (11 201-6203-7).

18. sares si

tari

Niclo garan e.

of 880

51 рів

00g. tos. la (1I).

do I34G5, laro11 Roleré

carorialel

All'ila

201-0018446

---

