‘od-40338-10074 (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

—_—

fe
(ese

United States Department of State

AON Washington, D.C. 20520
8/26/93

TO: Mr. John Wright
Information & Privacy Coordinator
Office of Information Services
Washington, DC 20505
ATT; John Carver, Historical Review Group

FROM: Het Godin Chief
Lal DS/RM/POL/FOIA
Diplomatic Security Service

SUBJECT: Compliance with the JFK Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

REF: 8/26/93 Cohen/Carver Telcon/ 8/13/93 Cohen Delivery of CIA
Material to Carver

To implement the Act, all federal agencies are required to
identify and organize any records in their possession “relating
to" the Kennedy assassination and to prepare them for
transmission to the National Archives.

In connection with review of the Department of State files
responsive. to the above, the following portions of a.DS
document of CIA interest were retrieved.

Please review your information and return the material to us.
If a determination is made that information should be withheld,
justification for “postponement” of its release should be
provided based on the provisions of Section 6 of the Act.

Once you have completed reviewing your information in this
document, please forward your response to: Kathleen Siljegovic,
Chief, DS/RM/POL/FOIA, Bureau of Diplomatic Security,
Department of State, 5th Floor, SA-10, 2121 Virginia Avenue,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20522-1003. In any communication,
Please cite JFK Assassination Records in the SUBJECT line. We
can be contacted on (202)663-0334.

Attachments:
As stated

eg tgor £


13-00000

United States Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520

JECTIONTO gen 3
DIOR SEF 30 1999

UNCLASSIFIED
(SEGREP Attachments)

John Carver

CIA Historical Review Group
CSI/ODCI

404 Ames Building

Rosslyn, Va.

SUBJECT: Referrals Under the JFK Assassinations Records
Collection Act of 1992

Dear John, ,

As I mentioned over the telephone, we have uncovered one
more document requiring CIA review which I am enclosing.
Hopefully this will be the last one.

I am also returning to you CIA's referral under the Act to
HDR of August 23, which John Glennon has reviewed. As you can
see by his note, he completed it several days ago, and I forgot
to pass it on.to you when you were over the other day. John
Glennon has indicated one document for postponement. Although
I am returning it to you with the rest at this point, I have
passed a copy of it on to the reviewers in Diplomatic Security,
who are coordinating a response with CA. I will call you when
I get an answer from them. If they decide to release it, we
would then have to obtain a concurrence from FBI.

‘Thank you again for your prompt action in reviewing our
request. I will be getting back to you on the DS answer after
I return on October 7.

Sincerely,

Nina J. Noring,

Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records Collection


United States Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520

UNCLASSIFIED
epee Attachments)

John Carver

CIA Historical Review Group
CSI/ODCI

404 Ames Building

Rosslyn, Va.

SUBJECT: Referrals Under the JFK Assassinations Records
Collection Act of 1992

Dear John,

I have found one more document that requires CIA review,
the attached memorandum from the Deputy Director for Plans to
the Director of INR, September 2, 1966 (State ID No. 17-228).
The document was reviewed by the Department's Mandatory Review
staff who indicated postponement of release under 1C of Section
6 of the JFK Act. Mandatory review also indicated that the
document should be reviewed by CIA.

Please let me know CIA's. decision on the status of this
document. If there has been prior release or if CIA now has no

objection to its release, I will convey this information to our
Mandatory Review staff.

Sincerely,

Nina J. Noring,
Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records Collection.

Attachment: As Indicated

UNCLASSIFIED
(SEGRETAttachment )


Mannedir s/s tee PL

sei OPTIONAL FORM 41 (Rev. 7-76)
‘ m ‘crba oh 1.206
‘® GPO: 1983 0 - 381-529 (232), FruRGs ‘BOle8!


13-00000

_¥ GPOs 1983 0~ 383-629 (2329 7 RPMR GAL CrRy 101-21.296


clips. |

SECRET

12 November 1993

Ms. Nina Noring

JFK Assassination Records Project

Historical Documents Review Division

Office of Freedom of Information,
Privacy, and Classification Review

Room B-234

Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520

.
Dear Nina:

Thank you for the background on "Roger Channel" from
your FAM. We will discontinue deleting this designator
except where the specific use of it might compromise
something else we need to protect.

I am returning to you herewith the two documents from
the Department of State collection of President John F.
Kennedy assassination records that you sent me on 8
November. We have identified those passages we want to

continue to protect with vellow highlighting and naner ;

We concur with

your other three deletions and your reasoning for them __
(though the third of these is clearly State's to call). On\
‘the 17 May 1957 Ops Memo from Brussels, we are asking for  ~
two deletions to protect our presence in Brussels at that
time.

Thank you for the opportunity to review this material
for CIA interests. If we can be of any further assistance,
please let us know. 7

Sincerely,

NW

—‘John S. Carver
Historical Review Group

5

Enclosures

SECRET


CLA SEE

CSI-0324/93
6 October 1993

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Ms. Nina Noring

JFK Assassination Records Project

Historical Documents Review Division

Office of Freedom of Information,
Privacy, and Classification Review

Room B0234 :

Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520

Dear Nina:

I am returning to you herewith the documents from the
Department of State collection of President. John F. Kennedy
assassination records which I had begun to review in your
office on 27 September. Of the 77 documents in your two
accompanying lists, we have released in full--or .indicated
no objection to release in full--49.5, and we have indicated
deletions of still sensitive CIA information (really
minimal) in 25.5. This leaves two in your list (both on
page three) which are technically missing from the package,
but I am sure these are just different readings of message
numbers or dates. You will see right away where they fit.

Thank you for the opportunity to review this. material
for CIA interests. If we can be of any further assistance,
Please let us know.

Sincerely,

7
(Bat. Sete
ohn S. Carver

Historical Review Group

Enclosures

UNCLASSIFIED
WHEN SEPARATED :
FROM ENCLOSURES Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505
(703) 351-2698 Fax (703) 243-8343


SUBJECT: Letter to Ms. Nina Noring

DCI /CSI/HRG/JSCarver :hfs/30335

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
1 - J. Carver
1 - C/HRG
1 - HRG files

(6 Oct 93)


CSI-0549/94
25 duly 1994

Ms. Nina J. Noring

Department of State Liaison

JFK Assassination Records Collection é

IS/FPC/PPA i

Room 1239 .
tment of State

2201 C Street, N-W.

Washington, D.C. 20520

.

Dear Nina;

This is a response to your letters of 30 September and 27 October
1993 and 31 January and 25 February 1994, enclosing material for CIA
review under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992. This collection comprises seven documents (plus four duplicates),
with a total of 40 pages. .In all but two of the documents, CIA is
asking for postponements of some passages under the terms of §§ (1) (A),
(1) (B), (1) (C), and (4) of Section 6 of the Act. These passages are
marked in yellow highlighting. For those passages marked off by red or
black ink brackets, but without yellow highlighting, CIA has determined
that said passages may be released under the terms of the Act.

I apologize personally for the inordinate delay in getting these
documents back to you.

Sincerely,

han

fohn S. Carver
Historical Review Group

Enclosures

UNCLASSIFIED
WHEN SEPARATED
FROM ENCLOSURES at


CSI-0537/94
9 August 1994

we Kathy Filjegovic :
£, Bureau of a i e ee
pe/eperora ns SEY CLA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

it of State
2121 Virginia Avenue, NW
Washington, D.C. 20520-1003

Dear Ms Filjegovic:

We are returning herewith the documents from the Bureau of
Diplomatic Security of the Department which we were asked to review for
coordination last year. Mr. Henry Cohen, DS/POC/FOIA, hand-carried this
package to us; I understand Mr. Cohen has since retired from the
Department :

We count 90 documents (252 pages) in this package. The Historical
Review Group of CIA has determined that 47 of these documents may be
veleased in full, as far as CIA equities are concerned. We are asking
for postponements of some passages in the remaining 43 documents under
the terms of §S§ (1) (A), (1) (B), (1) (C), and (3) of Section 6 of the JFK
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992. These passages are marked
in yellow highlighting.

We apologize for the delay.
Sincerely,
dC ice
john S. Carver
Historical Review Group

Enclosures .

UNCLASSIFIED
* WHEN SEPARATED
FROM ENCLOSURES

SST Coes Fut


13-00000

United States Department of State
Washington, D.C. 20520

November 30, 1994
CIA .

UNCLASSIFIED (GONFIDENTTAP Attachments) pz,
MEMORANDUM

TO: CIA/CSI/ODCI - Mr. Harrelson

FROM: A/IM/IS/FPC/HDR - Nina J. Noring{f 1 Department of State
Coordinator, JFK Assassination Records Act

SUBJECT: Referral of Document for CIA Review

Please find enclosed for CIA review a copy of Department of
State telegram 10875 from Manila, April 22, 1967 that contains
CIA equities in paragraph 7. The document was retreived from
the files of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and forwarded
to the Department of State for review.

If there are any questions concerning this, I can be reached at
202-647-8799. The documents can be returned to me at
IS/FPC/HDR, Room B-234, Main State.


13-00000

Center for the Study of Intelligence

CSI-0606/94
8 December 1994

Ms. Nina J. Noring
Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records Collection

IS/FPC/PPA

Room 1239

Department of, State :

2201 C Street, N.W. CIAS LILEC TIONS

Washinggton, D.C. 20520 a
RELEASE I ix) FULL
Dear Ms. Noring: 2600

This is a response to your memorandum November 30,
: 1994 enclosing a copy of Department of State telegram 10875
> from Manila, dated April 22, 1967, that contains CIA
equities in paragraph 7.

CIA has no objection to the declassification and
release in full of this document insofar as CIA's equities
are concerned. Enclosed is the document, appropriately
stamped, with a copy of your correspondence.

Thank you for affording us the opportunity to review
the document.

Sincerely,

J. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group

Enclosures

Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505
(703) 351-2698 Fax (703) 243-8343


United States Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520

we

UNCLASSIFIED 4eeNPEPENTTAT, Attachments)
MEMORANDUM

November 30, 1994

TO: CIA/CSI/ODCI ~ Mr. Harrelson Md

FROM: A/IM/IS/FPC/HDR - Nina J. Noring Department of State
Coordinator, JFK Assassination Records Act

SUBJECT: Referral of Document for CIA Review

Please find enclosed for CIA review a copy of Department of
State telegram 10875 from Manila, April 22, 1967 that contains
CIA equities in paragraph 7. The document was retreived from
the files of*the Federal Bureau of Investigation and forwarded
to the Department of State for review.

If there are any questions concerning this, I can be reached at
202-647-8799. The documents can be returned to me at
IS/FPC/HDR, Room B-234, Main State.


13-00000

COLLECTIONS
| FULL

Center for the Study of Intelligence

CSI-0606/94
8 December 1994

Ms. Nina J. Noring

Department of State Liaison

JFK Assassination Records Collection
IS/FPC/PPA

Room 1239

Department of State

2201 C Street; N.W.

Washinggton, D.C. 20520

Dear Ms, Noring:

This is a response to your memorandum of November 30,
1994 enclosing a copy of Department of State telegram 10875
from Manila, dated April 22, 1967, that contains CIA
equities in paragraph 7.

CIA has no objection to the declassification and
release in full of this document insofar as CIA's equities
are concerned. . Enclosed is the document, appropriately
stamped, with a copy of your correspondence.

Thank you for affording us the opportunity to review
the document?

Sincerely,

J. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group

Enclosures

Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505
(703) 351-2698 Fax (703) 243-8343


a DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY a

UNITED STATES ARMY INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY COMMAND
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION/PRIVACY OFFICE
FORT GEORGE G. MEADE, MARYLAND 20755-5995

REPLY TO
ATTENTION OF:
IAGPA-CSF-F (25-55g) 14 March 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR Department of State, Director of FPC, Rm 1512,
Main State Bldg., 2201 C Street, Washington,
DC 20520

. SUBJECT: Review of Information Required by the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (Public Law
102-256) :

1. Reference Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for
Intelligence (ODCSINT) memorandum of 23 May 1994, requesting that
the Central Security Facility process for: public release any
documents located within the Investigative Records Repository
that are responsive to the referenced Act (encl 1).

2. In reviewing the Army intelligence investigative records IAW
subject, the attached records (encl 2) and excerpts of
information have been determined to be under the purview of your
agency. These records are forwarded for your determination as to
the releasability of the information. Please review the
information (bracketed in red) and return the document to us,
making any deletions you deem appropriate and citing the
exemption claimed.

3. If£ you have any questions concerning this referral feel free
to contact Robert Storer or Joanne Benear at (301) 677-4192/4501.
Please refer to case #31-J.

Sincerely,

2 Encls WILLIAM E. PEARCE
Chief
Freedom of Information/
Privacy Office

Regraded uucEaSSIFIED
ae shen separated from

classified inclosures


13-00000

a

UNCLASSIFIED (SECRET Attachments)

United States Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520

October 24, 1995
Miriam Quinlan
Historical Review Group, CIS/HRG
Central Intelligence Agency

404 Ames Building Cra mac Wy vdveL OH TO
Rosslyn, VA 20505 DECLASSIFICATION ANLYCA
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Dear Miriam,

Enclosed for CIA review under the JFK Assassination Records
Act are the documents that we discussed over the telephone.
They come from the Archives’ collection of Warren Commission
papers that were not made public in 1964 for one reason or
another. They are:

\1. Memorandum for Record by Slawson, April 22, 1964 (55 pp.

(is ue) marked "sanitized copy"); Copy of document released at

phd

‘e

Archives Showing CIA review

. Memoranduin for Record by Slawson, April 22, 1964 (68 pp.);
as Copy of document released at Archives showing CIA review
(84 pp., includes draft Memorandum For Record by Slawson,
April 2i, 1964, 7 pp. denied in full).

in)

Draft Memorandum for Record by Slawson, April 21, 1964 (7
pp. plus copy of p. 1 showing CIA stamp denying release)

4. Supplemental memorandum, from Slawson to Willens, March 25,
1964, 35 pp. (copy is a reworked draft containing marginal
notations and crossed out text)

Extract from Slawson March 25, 1964 memorandum (document #4)

Memorandum from Slawson to Coleman, June 4, 1964, (13 pp);
Copy of document released at Archives showing CIA review

Memorandum from Coleman-Slawson, April 2, 1964 (3 pp.); CIA
excision warked on document but no copy of document found
released at Archives

8. Slawson’: handwritten notes, n.d., pp. 48-53, 83-84, 114,
116, 123, 130, 132, ?, 129, 132, 134-136, 147-148 (21 pp)

Please return the documents to me at A/IM/IS/FPC/HDR, Room
B-234, Main State. If you have any questions, I can be reached
at 202-647-8799.

Sincerely,

e Mheme QS aren

Nina JY Noring )
Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records Act


13-00000 : vena throwin

United States Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520

sponse
(UNCLASSIFIED Without Attachments)

December 6, 1995

Ms. Miriam A. Quinlan
Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

404 Ames Building CIA H CTION TO

Rosslyn, Virginia DECL AND/OR
RELEA RMATION

Dear Miriam: IN TRIS

We have reviewed under the JFK Assassination Records Act, at
NARA’s request, the attached 2 documents from the State
Department section of withheld Warren Commission papers at the
National Archives. The Department of State has no objection to
the release of the documents, but requests that CIA review. the
use of its acronym throughout them. I know from our previous
discussions that this issue is under reconsideration and that
some kind of resolution was expected around December.

If you have any questions I can be reached at 202-647-8799
usually on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays. A response

concerning the attachments can be sent to me at
A/IM/IS/FPC/HDR, Room B-234 Main State.

Sincerely,

Ami onens

Nina J. Noring
Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records Act

-suereT
(UNCLASSIFIED Without Attachments)


13-00000

=a
(UNCLASSIFIED Without Attachments)

United States Department of State
Washington, D.C. 20520

December 7, 1995

C OBJECTION TO

MEMORANDUM ND/OR
-ORMATION
IN 7
TO: CIA/CSI/ODCI - Mr. Harrelson’ i
FROM: State - A/IM/IS/FPC/HDR - Nina J. Noring ey

Department of State Liaison,
JFK Assassination Records Act

SUBJECT: Referral of Two Documents Under JFK Assassination
Records Act of 1992

I am enclosing for CIA review two documents under the
above-referenced legislation. The first, a State Department
operations memorandum of July 9, 1956, sent for review by the
Department of the Army, contains two references to Agency
equities. The second, found in State Department records at the
National Archives, is a page dated May 15, 1964 from a
classified volume in the Foreign Affairs manual. It contains
procedures for the handling of references to CIA interests in
State documents.

If you have any questions I can be reached at 202-647-8799.

Attachments:
As indicated.

Shek
(UNCLASSIFIED Without Attachments)


13-00000

oases Ll
: we

CENTER for the STUDY of INTELLIGENCE

8 January 1996

Ms. Nina J. Noring Ph a
Department of State Liaison Foes
, JFK Assassination Records Act ed
United States Department of State

Washington, D.C." 20520 .

Dear Ms. Noring:

This is in response to your memorandum dated
December 7, 1995 in which you forwarded two documents
related to the President John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992.

I am returning the documents to you with our comments
appended.

9 July 1956 Operations Memorandum. CIA has
no objection to
declassification and/or
release of this document.

15 May 1964 Foreign Affairs Manual page. CIA
has no objection to
declassification and/or
release of this document.

Please feel free to contact me at Area Code 703-
351-2884 or Ms. Miriam A. Quinlan at 703-351-2739 if you
have questions.

Sincerely,

g

Jd. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group

I-19-G“%

Enclosures

Comal Intelligence Agency + Washington, DC 20505 © 6703) 351-2698 Fas (703) 243-8315



13-00000 _
ae WB Re

lv
’ «

CENTER for the STUDY of INTELLIGENCE

1s THES

11 January 1996

Ms. Nina J. Noring
Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records Act
A/IM/IS/FPC/HDR

Room B-234 Main State
Washington, D.C. | 20520

Dear Ms. Noring:

In response to your letter dated December 6, 1995 to
Ms. Miriam A. Quinlan enclosing two documents under the
purview of the JFK Assassination Records Act, they are
returned with our comments as follows:

14 June 1962 subj: Sukarno Assassination Attempt.
CIA has no objection to the
: declassification and/or
a release of this document, as
sanitized. (See revised
yellow highlighting.)

May 1962 subj: Assassination Attempt - President
Sukarno. CIA has no objection
to declassification and/or
release of this document.
(“CAS”, throughout the
document, may be released.)

Should you have questions, please contact me at Area
Code 703-351-2884 or Ms. Quinlan at 703-351-2739.

Sincerely,

J. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group
I-1G-60
Enclosures -

Cemtral hitetlizen + Washingion, DC 20505 © (203) 351-2698 Fay (08) 243-8343



13-00000

United States Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520

February 8, 1996

UNCLASSIFIED £genPEDmerraTr Attachnent)

MEMORANDUM
TO: CIA/CSI/ODCI - Mr. Harrelson
FROM: State - A/IM/IS/FPC/HDR - Nina J. Noring

Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records Act

SUBJECT: , Referral of Two Documents Under JFK Assassination
Records Act of 1992

I am enclosing for CIA review under the above-referenced
legislation two additional documents found among NARA‘’s Warren
Commission collection. The first is an undated 17-page
memorandum from State’s bureau SCA to State’s Warren Report

an Task Force concerning a type of State reporting that was passed
on to CIA and FBI; the second is a memorandum on INR/DDC
Procedure, November 4, 1964, concerning the same subject.

If you have any questions I can be reached at 202-647-8799,
usually from Tuesday through Thursday.

Attachments:
As indicated

UNCLASSIFIED
Attachments)


13-00000

isi ~ APE B
Ks Fi ea
CENTER for the STUDY of INTELLIGENCE
CIA LS ONS

Ay

eee ary

21 February 1996

Ms. Nina J. Noring
Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records Act
A/IM/ISF/FPC/HDR

Room B-234 Main State
Washington, D.c. 20520

Dear Ms. Noring:

In response to your memorandum dated February 8, 1996
enclosing two documents under the purview of the JFK
Assassination Records Act, they are returned with our
comments as follows:

Undated + subj:17-page memorandum concerning
reporting passed on to CIA and
FBI. CIA has no objection to the
declassification and/or release of
this document.

4 November 1964 subj: Memorandum on INR/DDC
Procedure. CIA has no objection to
the declassification and/or release
of this document.

Should you have questions, please contact me at Area
Code 703-351-2884 or Ms. Miriam A. Quinlan at her new
extension: 703-351-2835.

Sincerely,

é

J. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group

Enclosures

Cemmal Lutelligence Agency + Washington, D.C. 20805 + (703) 351-2698 Fux (703) 243-8343


13-00000

1 October 1996

Ms. Stephanie Fawcett
John Pitzgerald Kennedy Library
Columbia Point
Boston, Massachusetts 02125
Dear Ms. Fawcett:
Boxes 63 and 64 of the John F. Kennedy, National
Security Files, which you sent to this Agency on 22 July
1996 have been reviewed and forwarded to the Department of

State for review.

yy : - Sincerely,

Cone
Jd. Barry Harrelson

“ey Ms. Nina Noring

Department of State

Central Intelligence Agency + Washington, DC. 20505 + (08) 351-2698 Fax (03) 43-8343


U.S. Department of Justice

Federal Bureau of Investigation

‘Washington, D. C. 20535

To: Department of State
2201 C Street, N.W.
A/IM/FPC/HDR, Rm B-234 BY COURIER
Washington, D. C. 20520 C.. = :

FOUL 1 1 1996

From: Carol L. Keeley, Supervisory Paralegal Specialist
JEK Task Force, Information Resources Division

Subject: Referral of Documents Responsive to the “President
Jobn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act
of 1992" (JFKARCA) RE: Angelo Bruno

In connection with the review of FBI files responsive to the JFKARCA, the following
was surfaced:

(X]__1__unclassified document(s) which originated with your agency. (See Index A.)

(X]___9___unclassified FBI document(s) containing information (outlined in red) furnished by your agency.
(See Index B.)

(X] __1___classified document(s) which originated with your agency. (See Index C.)

( ]____lassified FBI document(s) containing information (outlined in red) originating with your agency.
(See Index D.) -
{]_______Sce continuation page for additional information.

Please review your document(s) and/or information and return the document(s) to us,
making any deletions you deem appropriate, citing the appropriate postponement pursuant to the
JFKARCA, and advising if the document(s) still warrant(s) classification. In addition to a clean copy of the
referred document(s), a copy of the document as released in response to prior Freedom of Information Act
requests (if available) is also enclosed. .

If you have any questions concerning this referral, please contact Debbie Beatty.
‘on (202)324- 9467 . The FBI file number appearing on the lower right corner of the enclosed
documents, as well as, the Index Listing (see reverse) should be utilized during any consultation with this
Bureau concerning this referral.

Enclosure(s) (3)

—MATERIAL ATTACHED
(UNCLASSIFIED UPON REMOVAL OF ENCLOSURES)

c/a


13-00000

United States Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520

wut | 6 (995

MEMORANDUM

TO: Mr. John Wright
Information & Privacy Coordinator

Office of Information Services
Washington, D.C. 20505
ATT: John Carver, fe Review Group

FROM: Kathleen Siljegovit, Chief
DS/PPB/PAD
Diplomatic Security Service

SUBJECT: Compliance with the JFK Records Collection Act

Our records indicate that on 8/26/93, we referred one document to
you for review under the JFK Assassination Records Collection Act
of 1992 (copy of referral memo attached). Although all other CIA
referrals ,have been returned to us, we are unable to locate your
response on this document. We assume that since it was sent to you
separately, it may have been misrouted either in our office or

yours.

Therefore, we are sending you another copy of Department of State
record number 1191000310151 and ask that you review your
information outlined in red. If a determination is made that
information should be withheld, please provide justification of
postponement of its release based on the provisions of Section 6 of
the Act. Once you have completed your review, please return the
information to: Kathleen Siljegovic, DS/PPB/PAD - 5th Floor, Bureau
o£ Diplomatic Security, 2121 Virginia Avenue, N.W., Washington,
D.C. 20522-1003. If we can be of any assistance, please contact

Alice Ritchie at (202)663-0333.

We regret any inconvenience this may cause and thank you for your
early attention to this matter.

Attachments:
As stated.
2

96. Tog] ¢2 Tap


13-00000

Jobn Fitzgerald Kennedy Library
Columbia Point Boston, Massachusetts 02125
Telephone: (617) 929-4582

July 22, 1996

Mr. J. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, DC 20505

Dear Mr. Harrelson: 4

In compliance with the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Review Act, the enclosed
documents from the holdings of the John F. Kennedy Library are being submitted to your agency
for further declassification review under the Act. These documents have been reviewed by the
John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Review Board during their visit to the Library from June
17, 1996 through June 21, 1996. Please note that these documents are not being submitted under a
mandatory declassification review request. These documents are donated historical materials,
therefore Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act exemptions may not be cited.

We request that your agency review the documents and advise the Library of your review decision.
In your response to the Library, please indicate which documents may be released in whole or in
part. If portions of a document are exempt from declassification, please enclose a copy of the
document with the portions to be excised clearly marked.

If, following your review of the documents, you determine that there are any other agency(ies’)
interests represented in any of the documents, we would appreciate your forwarding them, along
with your review decision, to the appropriate agency(ies) for further review.

Upon receipt of all agency responses, the Library will make any released documents available for
research use,

Please contact me if you have any questions conceming the enclosed materials.

Sincerely,

tep!
Classification Review Archivist

Enclosures

A Presidential Library Administered by the National Archives and Records Administration


13-00000

CENTER for the STUDY of INTELLIGENCE
CIA. SPEC LECTIONS

36 July 1996

Ms. Kathleen Siljegovic, DS/PPB/PAD
United States Department of State a
Bureau of Diplomatic Security (5th Floor)
2121 Virginia Avenue, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20522-1003

Dear Ms. Siljegovic:

Your letter of July 18, 1996 to Mr. John Wright,
Information and Privacy Coordinator, has been referred to me
for reply. The Historical Review Group is the responsible
office for records falling under the purview of the

_ President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection
Act of 1992.

I regret our oversight in replying to your letter of
August 26, 1993. We have reviewed the enclosed document and
have no objection to its release.

Should you have further questions, please feel free to
contact me at 703-351-2909, or Ms. Miriam A. Quinlan at 703-

351-2835.
Sincerely,
d. Barry Harréeso)
Historical Review Group
Enclosure:

DOS Record Number:
1191000310151

Central Intelligence Agency + Washington, D.C. 20505. + (703) 351-2698 Fax (703) 243-8343


13-00000

United States Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520

SGOUEEDEND Eee
(UNCLASSIFIED Upon Removal of Attachments)

September 18, 1996

TO: CIA/CSI/ODCI - Mr. Harrelson

FROM: State - A/IM/IS/FPC/HDR - Nina J. Noring
Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records Act

SUBJECT: * Referral of Two Documents Under JFK Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992

Attached are two documents received from FBI that contain CIA
equity and require review under the above-referenced
legislation.

If you have any questions I can be reached at x78799 usually
Tuesday thru Thursday.

Attachment:
FBI, Angelo Bruno file, HQ, 92-2717; Sec 7; Serial 398
FBI, Elenita Garro de Paz, HQ, Misc Sec Refs, Vol 1 of 1,
109-12-221-1758

SOePEDENLIAE
(UNCLASSIFIED Upon Removal of Attachments)


13-00000

ly
<

CENTER for the STUDY of INTELLIGENCE

25 September 1996

Ms. Nina J. Noring
Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records Act
A/IM/ISF/FPC/HDR

Room B-234 Main. State
Washington, D.C. 20520

Dear Ms. Noring:
The Central Intelligence Agency has no objection to the
declassification and/or release of the enclosed two
documents referred to us with your correspondence of
September 18, 1996.
Sincerely,
SS \--\
J. Barry Harrelgon

Historical Review Group

Enclosures:
FBI, Angelo Bruno file, HQ, 92-2717, Sec 7; Serial 398
FBI, Elenita Garro dePaz, HQ, Misc Sec Refs, Vol 1 of 1,
: 109-12-221-1758

Central Intelligence Agency + Washington, D.C. 20503. + (703) 351-2698 Fax (03) 243-8313


13-00000

United States Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520

January 16, 1997

Mirian Quinlan
CIA/CSI/HRG

IP Room 2E04B
Washington, DC 20505

Dear Miriam: .

Recently during a conversation with Bob Skwirot of the ARRB
staff, I mentioned the 8 documents from NARA’s Warren
Commission collection that I had sent to CIA for rereview in
October 1995 (memorandum attached). Bob said that CIA had
already rereviewed various versions of Slawson’s report and he
subsequently sent me the attached sheets that show final action
and the CIA’s RIF numbers. However, he only sent me the final
text of the 55-page version. At any rate, I was wondering if
there is anything more than CIA might supply in response to the
October 1995 request. -

Sincerely,

ie
Nina J. Noring

Department of State
JFK Act Coordinator


13-00000

4 . omer

ee . Central intelligence Agency

11 February 1997

Ms. Nina J. Noring
Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records Act
United States Department of State ahevar ee, 7 fae nenrege
Washington, DC 20520

2500
Dear Nina:

Enclosed are ‘the documents which you forwarded in your
letter of October 24, 1995. Our comments (and copies of
documents, where appropriate) are appended.

1. Memorandum for the Record by Slawson, April 22,
1964 (55 pp. marked “sanitized copy.)
Enclosed is the final determination sheet and
a copy of the document (showing substitute
language) as released.

2. Memorandum for the Record by Slawson, April 22,
1964 (68 pp).
i Enclosed is the final determination sheet and
a copy of the document (showing substitute
language) as released.

3. Draft Memorandum for Record by Slawson, April 21,
1964 (7 pp. plus copy of p. 1 showing CIA stamp
denying release.)

This document has subsequently been released
in full.

4. Supplemental Memorandum, from Slawson to Willens,
March 25, 1964, 35 pp. (copy is a reworked draft
containing marginal notations and crossed out
text)

The CIA versions of this document (15 pp.)°
have been released in full.

5. Extract from Slawson March 25, 1964 memorandum
(document 4).
CIA has no objection to declassification
and/or release of this document.

6. Memorandum from Slawson to Coleman, June 4, 1964
(13 pp.); Copy of document released at Archives
showing CIA review.

This document has been released in full.

aaQRED


13-00000

7. Memorandum from Coleman-Slawson, April 2, 1964
(3 pp.); CIA excision marked on document but
no copy of document found released at Archives.

CIA has no objection to declassification
and/or release of this document.

8. Slawson's handwritten notes.
CIA has no objection to declassification
and/or release of this document.
Should you have further questions on these documents
please do not hesitate to contact me at 703-613-1825 or
Miriam Quinlan at 703-613-1834.
Sincerely,
2— \ ——
J. Barry Harrel.
Historical Review Group

Enclosures:
As described above

UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED FROM ATTACHMENTS

Ger


13-00000

HRG/MAQ (11 Feb 97)
Distribution:
Orig - Adse w/atts
1 - HRG w/epy atts 5, 6, 7 (MAQ File)
1 - HRG w/o atts


13-00000

oO PRESS HARD WHEN WRITING a)

C1 ‘cpfBennaL CAUTION secure storage n>
‘SECRET -p10,BE hoe
CLASSIFIED WHEN FILLED IN

POUCH MANIFEST

ELE

Fi Fiblindy a
) a nine. arm Soe ALSO
iy 4 Ein Lasungs *

Lys BUMP 19 LAC

CIA SEE. : a HCTIONS
REL... aren By

COPY DISTRIBUTION: WHITE AND CANARY TO ADDRESSEE: PINK ADDRESSOR COPY

DATE ‘SIGNATURE (Recipient)

FORM USE PREVIOUS
379 255 EDmons CONFIDENTIAL Dg“ SecreT 7 oct O RvW ——__



13-00000

15 April 1997

Ms. Nina J. Noring

Department of State Liaison

JFK Assassination Records Collection Act
A/IM/IS/FPC/HDR~

Room B-234 Main State

Washington, D.C. 20520

Dear Nina:

The enclosed material has been reproduced from a file
box of the John Fitzgerald Kennedy Library dealing with
developments in the aftermath of the Cuban Missile Crisis.
The documents were either provided by the Department or
contain your equities. We have been asked by the
Assassination Records Review Board and the Library to
declassify the contents of the file in compliance with the
President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection
Act of 1992 and seek your coordination in this effort.

Should you have questions, please feel free to contact
me at 703-613-1825 or Miriam at. 703-613-1834. Meanwhile, we
would appreciate receiving your response by 30 May 1997.

Sincerely,

J. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence

Enclosures:
See Attached sheet


13-00000 _

THIS DOCUMENT IS UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED FROM ENCLOSURES

—vePr-SECRET


13-00000

Date

25 Oct 62

26 Oct 62

1 Nov

1 Nov

1 Nov

2 Nov

30
30
29
29
29
28
26
26
27
27
24
25

4

*3-4 Apr 63

Oct
Oct
Oct
Oct.
Oct
Oct
Oct
Oct
Oct
Oct
Oct
Oct

Nov

62
62
62
62
62
62
62
62
62
62
62
62
62
62
62
62

62

*Undated

25 Oct 62

—ZOR-GECRET

LIST OF DOCUMENTS

Subject No. Pages
EMBTEL 448 (LaPaz) 2
Memo for The Secy 74
fr Roger Hilsman

EMBTEL 14711 (Mexico City) 1
EMBTEL 225 (Port-au-Prince) 1
CIA Information Report 1
EMBTEL 1244 (Buenos Aires) 1
DEPTEL 797 2
DEPTEL 14046 2
EMBTEL 750 (Djakarta) 1
CIA Information Report 2
CIA Information Report 1
EMBTEL 247 (Port of Spain) 3
EMBTEL 504 (Athens) 2

EMBTEL 220 (Port-au-Prince) 2
EMBTEL 204 (Bern) 3
EMBTEL 346 (Montevideo) 1
EMBTEL 445 (Beirut) 1
EMBTEL 694 (Accra) 2
DEPTEL 843 1
Report of the Interdepartmental
Team on Counter Measures in
Central America and Panama 35
Report of the Interdepartmental
Team on Counter Subversive
Measures in Central America

and Panama 1

DEPTEL 1058 2

~TQP-SECRET”


13-00000

-TQP_SECRET
24 Jun 63 Translation 6
12 Nov 62 CIA Memo--
The Crisis USSR/Cuba 8
16 Nov 62 CIA Memo--The Crisis
USSR/Cuba 6
23 Dec 62 CIA Memo--Indications of

an Impending Political
Decision of Significance
5

in Cuba
23 Jan 63 State Memo to The oie
fr Roger Hilsman
23 Jan 63 a State Memo to The Selene?
fr Roger Hilsman
15 Jul 63 CIA IntelMemo 26
4 Sep 63 WH Memo for Mr. Bundy
fr Gordon Chase w/atts 9
; 20 Sep 63 Memo for Mr. Bundy fr
Benjamin H. Read w/atts13
18 Oct 63 Memo to Mr. Johnson fr
Thomas L. Hughes w/atts 8
1 Nov 63 Memo for Mr. Johnson fr
Thomas L. Hughes 2
10 Sep 62 Extract from Memo (paras
18 and 19) 1

*It would appear that State previously agreed to release in
full.

—TOR_SECRET


13-00000

United States Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520
UNCLASSIFIED (spank Actachments)
April 18, 1997 Wes ops, 47
Miriam Quinlan

Historical Review Group

JFK Assassination Act Project
IP Room 2E04B

Washington, DC 20505

=CTIONTO

Dear Miriam,

I am enclosing 42 documents relating to U.S. relations with
Cuba for CIA review that come from the files of the former
Coordinator for Cuban Affairs (Lot 66D501). The Assassination
Records Review Board (ARRB) has determined that this lot file
is covered by the 1992 legislation and should be reviewéd
according to its precepts. CIA previously reviewed 7 of. these
documents (11~22A; 11-26; 11-27; 11-38; 11-48; 11-49; 11-50)
for Foreign Relations of the United States, 1961-1963, Vols. X
and XI, Cuba and released them in part. We have marked the
excisions previously made by CIA on each document. State has
no objection to the release of these documents in full except
for the excisions indicated in documents 11-26 and 11-27.

The remaining 35 documents are numbered: 11-1; 11-3; 11-5;
11-6; 11-8; 11-9; 11-10A; 11-11; 11-11A; 11-12; 11-12A; 11-13;
11-16; 11-19; 11-22B; 11-22C; 11-23; 11-23A; 11-23B; 11-24;
11-28; 11-33; 11-37; 11-55; 11-57; 11-59; 11-61; 11-62; 11-64;
11-65; 11-69; 11-71; 11-72; 11-73; 11-74. Department of State
excisions are indicated in documents 11-11; 11=11A; ‘11-12A;
11-13; 11-22B; and 11-55.

These documents, which we have downgraded to Secret, were
taken from the Top Secret portion of the lot file. The week
after next I will be sending you an additional group of
documents from the Secret portion of this lot file for review
under the Act. I will be away from work the week of April 21
but return to my regular Tuesday to Thursday schedule the week
of April 28. My phone number remains 202-647-8799.

Sincerely,

Nina J. Noring
Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992
Attachments:

As indicated.
UNCLASSIFIED (S$ Attachments)


13-00000

ARK rank Cutis
16 __ Foreign Relations, 1961-1963, Volume XI

: 10. Memorandum From the Central Intelligence Agency Project MW. Edi:
Officer for Operation Mongoose (Harvey) to the Chief of :
‘Operations, Operation Mongoose (Lansdale)

! Presi:
' : (Augment
Washington, October 8, 1962. proposed
was to obi
SUBJECT MRBM sit
- gested the
Sabotage of Cuban Owned Ship dent appr:
1. Itisrequested that you present the following proposal to theSpe- Strategic *
cial Group (Augmented) for policy approval. Intelligenc
2. Policy approval is requested to permit the sabotage of Cuban- reconnais:
owned vessels wherever and whenever secure access to them can be of Staff, th:
attained, normally this ‘will be in non-Bloc ports. Attacks against the concernin;
Cuban-Gwned ships must be considered essentially as attacks against take only
targets of opportunity in the sense that in most cases there will be little feet. It wa
advance information prior to the arrival of the ship in a non-Bloc port indication:
and the duration of the port call will be limited. Fastin
5 . 5 7 ios
3.. The following specific types of action are contemplated: tric: Washi
(13 paragraphs (40 lines of source text) not declassified) FRC71 A>
6. It is necessary to submit the request for policy approval in a
somewhat more general form than usual to permit us to take advantage
of targets of opportunity as they occur: In most cases we will not have
1 sufficient advance notice of the arrival of the ship or have sufficient
access to the ship to permit the preparation and submission of detailed . 2
individual approval requests in advance. In every case where fii and ae
circumstance permit, specific proposals will be submitted to the Special 12 Men
Group (Augmented) for approval. Any case involving unusual opera-
tional or security risks will be submitted in advance for Special Group
(Augmented) approval.
7. Later we will submit requests for policy approval of actions
against other ships supplying Cuba.

William K. Harvey! Imm
including
explained
Ford and ~

‘Source: Department of State, ARA/CCA Files: Lot 66 D 501, Operation Mongoose. Source
‘Top Secret; Sensitive. with the Pre-
' Printed from a copy that indicates that Harvey signed the original. ments on th:



13-00000

16 May 1997

NOTE FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Review of JFK Documents from State which were also
the Subject of FRUS Volumes X and XI on Cuba

1. State Department forwarded a letter w/attachments
dated 18 April 1997 (copy attached) indicating that seven of
the enclosed documents forwarded for JFK review were also
the subject of previous Agency reviews for the FRUS volumes
on Cuba. The document numbers listed in the letter were
numbered for the JFK review. I located the first document
as already sanitized and published in Vol. XI. I phoned
Nina Noring of State to see if she could give me the
corresponding FRUS numbers which are listed below:

Previous
JFK No. Doc Date Doc Type FRUS Vol. FRUS No. Treatment

11-22A 80ct62 Memo xI cu II 16 GIP ~
(Copy attached as published in FRUS.]

11-26 31May62 Memo x cu 281 GIP*

11-27 17May62 Report x cu 279 GIF**

11-38 25Ju162 Note w/ x CU 297 GIP*
report

11-48 1Aug62 Report x [See note below]

11-49 31Aug62 Memo w/ x cU 329 GIP***
report

(NOTE: 11-48 and 11-49 consist of a different version
of the same report; 11-49 has a covering memo. State
could not identify a FRUS number for 11-48.]

11-50 12Sep62 Memo x cu 348 GIP***

7 E93-0062 (rereview) .

ited E92-0493.

*** I could not locate any information on documents CU 329 and
CU 348. Susan Weetman from State phoned with the following
concerning our FRUS review: CU 329 was forwarded to State
sanitized on 20 July 1992; additional information released and
forwarded to State on 5 July 1994; the 5 July 1994 determina-
tions were reaffirmed (sustained) in a 6 November 1995 letter to
State. CU 348 was forwarded to State sanitized on 5 July 1994
with those determinations reaffirmed on 6 November 1995.


13-00000

2. Volume XI has already been published so any
decisions made with respect to the JFK review will not
influence the FRUS release.

3. Per conversations with Susan Weetman on 16 May
1997, Volume X is scheduled to be published in June 1997;
all release decisions concerning the FRUS Vol. X documents
are firm and cannot be changed. Therefore, any JFK review
of these documents will not influence the FRUS release.

ater

Karen Galuska

Attachments:
As stated


UNCLASSIFIED

From the Desk of Miriam A. Quinlan-Y-
28 May 1997

NOTE FOR: J. Barry Harrelson @ OCI

FROM: Miriam A, Quinlan-Y-
DATE: (05/28/97 03:08:59 PM
SUBJECT: Oraft Letter to State

2000
Ihave drafted a letter to Nina Noring returning the stack of documents she forwarded to us at the end of April. Chuck Briggs
and DO did the review. | have affixed the stamps and have the documents~on my desk-ready to go except for the one you are
withholding. -

You may find the draft in "G" drive under HRG/Noring 8.

Your comments are welcome. | thought you might wish to add a paragraph about sending someone down to her place and also
give ourselves a pat on the back for our prompt review of 375 pages (30 days)!I!!

‘See you Monday.

UNCLASSIFIED


13-00000

Ms. Nina J. Noring
Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992
United States Department of State
Washington, D.C. 20520

Dear Nina:

We have reviewed the 42 documents forwarded with your
letter of April 18, 1997. We are returning 41 of the
documents stamped for release, as follows:

“CIA has no objection to declassification and/or
release of this document” on documents:
11-1, 11-3, 11-5, 11-6, 11-8, 11-9, 11-10A, 11-1iA,
11-12, 11-12A, 11-13, 11-16, 11-19, 11-22A, 11-22B,
11-22c, 11-23, 11-23A, 11-23B, 11-24, 11-28, 11-33,
11-37, 11-38, 11-50, 11-55, 11-57, 11-59, 11-61, 11-62,
11-64, 11-65, 11-69, 11-71, 11-72, 11-73, and 11-74.

CIA has no objection to declassification and/or
release of this document, as sanitized” on documents:
11-26, 11-27, 11-48, and 11-49.

We have withheld document No. 11-11 pending a final
decision as to its disposition and will get back to you as
soon as possible.

Should you have questions, please do not hesitate to
call me at 703-613-1825 or Ms. Miriam A. Quinlan at
703-613-1834.

Sincerely,

ud. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group

Enclosures

UNCLASSIFIED UPON REMOVAL OF ENCLOSURES


‘Washington, D.C. 20505,

ECTIONS
iLL 24 April 1998

Ms. Nina J. Noring

Department of State Liaison

JFK Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992
United States Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520

Dear Nina:

In May 1997 you forwarded 42 documents relating to
U.S. relations with Cuba from the files of the former
Coordinator for Cuban Affairs for our review.

We'returned 41 of the documents in June, withholding
document No. 11-11 pending a final decision as to its
disposition. We are returning the document bearing our
stamp: “CIA has no objection to declassification and/or
release of CIA equities in this document."

I apologize for the long delay; Please call me at 703-
613-1825 or Miriam at 703-613-1834 if you have questions.

Sincerely,

/st

J. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Program
Office of Information Management

Enclosure: Document #11-11
Memo dtd 15 Feb 65

UNCLASSIFIED UPON REMOVAL OF ENCLOSURE


United States Department of State : i

Washington, D.C. 20520

UNCLASSIFIED (SECRET Attachments)

April 18, 1997 er | ig

Miriam Quinlan :
Historical Review Group

JFK Assassination Act Project
IP Room 2E04B

Washington, DC 20505

Dear Mirian,

I am enclosing 42 documents relating to U.S. relations with
Cuba for CIA review that come from the files of the former
Coordinator for Cuban Affairs (Lot 66D501). The Assassination
Records Review Board (ARRB) has determined that this lot file
is covered by the 1992 legislation and should be reviewéd
according to its precepts. CIA previously reviewed 7 of, these
documents (11-22; 11-26; 11-27; 11-38; 11-48; 11-49; 11-50)
for Foreign Relations of the United States, 1961-1963, Vols. X
and XI, Cuba and released them in part. We have marked the
excisions previously made by CIA on each document. State has
no objection to the release of these documents in full except
for the excisions indicated in documents 11-26 and 11-27.

The remaining 35 documents are numbered: 11-1; 11-3; 11-5; :
11-6; 11-8; 11-9; 11-10A; 11-11; 11-11A; 11-12; 11-12A; 11-13; _ ., se
° 11-16; 11-19; 11-22B; 11-22C; 11-23; 11-23A; 11-23B; 11-24; t
21-28; 11-33; 11-37; 11-55; 11-57; 11-59; 11-61; 11-62; 11+64;
11-6 11-69; 11-71; 11-72; 11-73; 11~74. Department of State
excisions are indicated in documents 11-11; 11=11A; :11-12A; ve
11-13; 11-22B; and 11-55.

These documents, which we have downgraded to Secret, were
taken from the Top Secret portion of the lot file. The week
after next I will be sending you an additional group of
‘documents from the Secret portion of this lot file for review
under the Act. I will be away from work the week of April 21
but return to my regular Tuesday to Thursday schedule the week
of April 28. My phone number remains 202-647-8799.

Sincerely,
Nina J. Noring
Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992
Attachments: :

As indicated.
UNCLASSIFIED (SECRET Attachments)
