|104-10186-10340|

ign

Pree

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992] a

f

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Staten within the messing of the Espionnge Laws, TOE
manger {oan unauthorwed pene le prohibited By Me.

‘This material contatas tnfermation aZecting the Matton

SECRET RETURN TO CIA
NO FOREIGN DISSEM Background Use Only
7 Do Not Reproduce
COUNTRYCuba REPORT NO. CET-316/00627.65
SuMECT Raul GONZALEZ (alias "Olexi") OATE DISTR. =» «10 February 1965

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES = CS-311/0011 5-64
(page 7) 7
July 196
io,” 1964 ccicihaied
piace 4 Washington, D. C,
oate aca. January 1965 FIELD REPORT NO.
THiS 1S UNEVALUATED I ORMATION, SOURCE GUADINGS ARE CUVINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service untal April 1964,

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Ayency.

It, is requested that the addressees Aake no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Raul GONZALEZ, alias “Olexi," recently joined the
Departamento Ilegal ({llcgal Department) of the Direccion
General de (nteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence-
DGI). We previously worked with the Union de Jovenes Comunistas

(USC).

2. GONZALEZ, who is Caccasian, was born about 1943, or 1945.
lle is five feet seven inches tall, weighs 145 pounds, and has
dark broun haar. fle resides az Catte 30, No, 307, Vedado,
Habana, Cuba; his telephone number is 33161.1

Headquarters Commest

1, The records of this Agercy reveal no identifiable information
on Raul GONZALEZ.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSE
ware Tota Tamer 7 NAW eA Tock Urer2 | Z

REP CINCLANT__CINCSO #

(ote: Fleld distribution Indicated by “™)

| LX 2290;UFGA 19920

{eam (99 Dec. 64)

ri 0 PROJECT (AXNUG '2)
am 1p L008 2283

[wut SaZEOBI
Mib:S4200B 1
MISA LR
eeeaea SEG PS
ia fis. ae
a PLRes

bee rete tal IS
WILAWAVE.
toteer Teal i QO), WE 7 (2), Cl 4, RIDL

