# 104-10229-10086

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10229-10086

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

Chicf of Statton, WAVE.

TO 14411N

GET SALIE NSA

CAN JUICE IRITHINO

TRUM

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

MICRORED

TYPIC/OPERATIONAL Termination of Benafit Paymenta Under

A TRACITINO RUTHLES"

Project AMBUD

REF: UPGA 18908, 4 December 1964

1. Headquarters regreta that it has not been possible to

reply to reference sooner.

The delay has resulted from the

need to revion carofully the flles on this activity.

It 18

apparent from previous correspondence that approval to terminate

subsidy payments will have to be obtained from higher authority -

which has not yet been done.

You may rest assured that Headquarters sympathizes

with your point of view in the matter and will endeavor to take

action If appropriate authority can be obtained. Howsver, this

1s likely to be a alow process and you are requated to continue

the program until such time as you are advised to the contrary.

3. The second reference cited in ref dispatch is apparently

in error. Please forward the correct reference which Headquarters

might have located if the files on this case were not so sadly

deficient.

CHESTER D. DiITOLD

Distribution:

COS, SMWAVB - Orig. & 2

CHOSS REFERENCE 10

SA/C/COPS

ROM CACA

- WH/C/MO

RHH/G/ESEÇ-

DISPAICH SEMICY AND NUMBER

UFCH-4944

CASSNKAIKNES LOPE

S-B-C-R-B-T

DATE

19-124-25/63

MES FILE NUMBER

19-124-25/6

OPIGIATII

I. FLORES /W.CINI/swu dad

I.Al.

7264

tiAlt

CAH/C/MO

C /WH/C/CA

DCWAD /C

C/WHD

DATE

ido:

OFFICIN'S MAME

He Is, C1n1

Ricket rusetter

•Jobn I. Hast

HILEESTELL

Desmon BitzGerald

DISPATCH

---

