"104-10510-10151)

SSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESENT OnE: KENNEDY ASSA:

__ Cc ot
DISPATCH © _seenes

‘GaLY ovalirds

wre
Heatocuris cose
ancien Gan heat In

Leced ABSTRACT

Chief of Station, JMWAVE
suaccr TYPIC7Opera tlona:
ABUL Medical Program

"ACTION REQUINED REFUGES
Reforences:
A. UFGA=25901, Para 1.(14 Sept 1966) F. UFGS-5352 (29 October 1964)
B, UFGA=25261, Para 11 (3 June 1966) G. UFGA-18091 (13 October 1964)
C. UFGA-23072 (14 Sept 1965) H. UFGS-5186 (21 September 1964)
D, UFGA-21058 (27 April 1965) I. UFGA-17174 (17 Auguat 1964) |
E, UFGA~19189 (28 December 1964)

Action Required: As stated in pacagraph 3,

1. As reported in Reference A, paragraph 1, the medical/vocational
rehabilitation program has reduced the auabor of individuals receiving
monthly medical dependency payments to six "hard core” cases, One of
this num rious medical caso who reatdes locally,

is funded by Garcia Lines. The background of the

: ey ous correspondence with Headquarters regarding resolutio:
of the problem. 1s contdnod tn References B through I. Being ‘forwarded
Under ‘Scparate-Coyer are Attachnenta A, B and ¥,. the, case Histories for

6 @eRnanve: Penezioaed MARTINEZ 6 Of spec: pag Reference’ C
which forwar case histories”o: (xoLawa, ‘ant (O for analysis
and comment by the Medical Stattbh\wedic#l reporta originated subsequent
to the submission of the Reference C report and are being forwarded
Under Separate Cover as Attachnenta Cc, D and Ek;

2. The current status of each of the remaining cases is summarized
as follows:

§.
a. (iennannes Hernandez, Raut) (201£00405))
ILEPSY x
Receiving outpatient treatment from Dade County Department
of Public Health Anti-~Convulsive Clinic, 6A Clinic report
dated 31 May 1966 states that (HERNANDEZ Jontinues to havo
seizures which tho Clinic ts a ‘tempting to control by
medication. (Attachment A.) (U/8/C)

Attachments U/S/C continued..........

X throug! as described

ATE FreeD ATE OSSPATCHED

28 Sept 66 | OCT 6 Wt _|

‘ISPATEN SYMGGL AND NUMBER

UFGA-26075

WEACQUARTERS FILE ROMER
19-124-25/5~3

4 Plus each 201 file

Distribution 4
S=WN7C W7T cy each TeTAc- 2
ate. U/8/c : =m
(plus 1 cy Dispatch
for each 201 file



Qipy

cet

INU ATION OF | SKRCRET | UFGA=26075

6

PS ner to)(zo1£201762))
i/Bladder Kemoved
Receiving outpatient ‘treatment; most recently for a
kidney infection, ANBUD-3 states that it 1s incredible
that Subject continues to live, The case is s:
in a report prepared by Dr, Vargas in May 1966,
4 (Attachment B) (U/8/C)

DISPATCH

c. (OLINA Quintana, Josud) (201-644434))
ENTAL
Receiving outpatient caro at Jackson Memorial Hospital
Department of Psychiatry. A 5 May 1966 report from
the Hospital recommends that Subject continuo under
psychiatric outpationt care for at least another
year, (Attachment C)- (u/S/C)

: la ,. &
4. (201 £29) 1019)
LENTAL :
Continuing to receive treatment from Dr. Mora who
wrote on 11 August 1966 that Subject is very ill and
in need of further psychiatric treatment.

(attachment v) (U/3/c)

e, (POZO Greer, Rolandd) (201297700) )
NTAL t
Continuing to receive treatment from Dr, kivra who
wroto on 11 August 1966 that Subject has shown signe
of real improvement which may rouult in his becoming
self-supporting. Aahchte aad KE) (U/S/C) -

f. : (Garcia Lines, 201 not

wailable
BLIND (Advanced glaucoma)
Receiving outpatient care at Jackson Memorial Hospital.

(Attachment F) (U/8/C)

36 It is requested that the Headquarters rovi, wingbac: on
described. in Reference C for handling the cases of (koLtNay
and|Pozoybe expanded to include all the remaining cases an’

JMWAVE be informed of the conclusions reached concerning. the

ultimate disposition of these cases,

4. FYI, ‘An amount of $250,000 was originally authorized
for the medial phaso of the AMBUD Program, Expenditures under
this program have resched a level of approximately $245,000 with
bill outstanding at the present tine of $3,250, It 1s evident
that the cases remaining which require medical treatment as
outlined above will necesstato the expenditure uf sums in excess
of this amount.

Philip G, ELMARD

sseeeersnoats raat NO”

COSaNCATIC

T Hl
iE's9a  ernewomeomom |  Se OR Re 0 pouaaed | bd

