# 104-10234-10162

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10234-10162

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

Deputy chine, WR/BA

CLASSIANA

тота

PROCISSIHEO

NOTICES

MUARES ТОЙ НИХЛЬ

+0 5960X186 84807289

LATPINNTIES DESS

CAO ATONI SADDENES

LESTRATT

Chant of station, JWAVE

TYPIC/Uporational/AlLILACE

ActIon Roguirod: FYI

La ANNURAl TONIgIOd ITOS the AMLILACE effoCtIVe

31 Airtiat 1954.

An Agent SOrViCo Rocord and a Damago

Roport aro attachod.

2. AMNIBA-1 waB a vcll-trainod commando and radio

operator wits a food record in the AMLiLAC proup.

was well motivated, and vas well-suited

He becane digillusloned with the

operational inactivity of the AMLILACe and reluctantly re

signed.

Thero to little doubt that he vill sock asploy

DODt WIth GONN CALlO ETOUP that vill Offer hla lue action

he secka. It 1y poysible that he u1ll attempt to goin

AltORLD.

Dun to the fact that subjoct participated in

Oporation ZORRO, a caching operation 1n support of AluASH-1

and nest yout recovored, it in nocessary that subject be held

In PHPRIME until it 1a determinod 18 tho cache

1g to be

recoverod.

This bold will also provido a cooling off portod

1n tomas of intormation ho porecasos rolatiog to the

Attachaonta:

H/tr

Agont Service Racord

Danago Report

Diatribution:

3 - Addrouseo ulatte.

Lack-

/

QASINICATON

BECRET

Andres k. REUT&HAN

DATE TIPED

17 Sopt 64

DISPATON SMAROL AND POTENTI

UTGA-17781

НАДОМАТТЕР, ТАЛ МАВТОСЯ

201-320681

DATE DURATONTO

sun.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Capacity initil agent quad: Radio perator in emile

commando Proso

Date of Pay sir an as toner!

The wished torn ictior and muried to join infil team.

Secret sect, ince, injens septored in infit melon.

bag the either a o

Manner if demand: verbal by ASTATI

Let termin tonigent i

17:l..

951032010

---

## Page 3

14-00000

DAMAGE REPORT

NIE:

ANUBA - 1

....

Safehouse and Training Areas Exposed:

8/H 193

8/H 255

8/H 240

8/H 177

ISOLATION/ ISOTROPIC

Indigenoug Agent Personnel Exposed:

ANLILAC GrOUp

AMSHRUG-I

---

## Page 4

14-00000

• 14

S&CRBT

KUBARK Personnel Exposod:

IrvIng C. DEVUONO

KUTt E. HAKRICRAS

Aubreg K. PAUKERT

Paul A. KUBIAK

Stanley R. ZAHKA

Paul V. HINDICINO

CharLeS F. HASENGILI

Alton I. PIRNACK

Fletcher R. THENNE

ISOLATION/ISOTROPIC Staff by nicknazes

Daniel F. GUSSON

Hartin C. TARTERS

Knor A9:

Indigenous Instructors

ANSHING- 1

* AMHINT-18

AMRINT -19

AMPULP_ 2

AMPHODARCH

Exposed:

Knows As:

Lee

Bd

JAFFY

RODE

DI. MIranda

Tod

Frank

LaFTY

HArTY

BIli

DaD

Charlie

GeOrge

Raul

JOITY

DaVO

---

