“"fo4-10241-10187|

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT -_ 1992 |

iH
i

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Federal Bureau of lavestication

SUBJECT: Trving AMRON # AXRONIN

1. Beference is nado to the discussions between ur.
Bruce Solie of tals Office and Ar. Willen ce Creear of
your bureau om 12 January 1905 concerning the Sutject case.
wcterence 13 8180 nae to your <6 fesruary aac <2 nay Love
Feports concerning the Subject case, Bureau File #10$-103312,

2. Subject initially cate to the atteation of this
Office im June 135% waen he replied to aa aivertiseaent.
Placed by this Office in a XYC Revspaper (urilizing a
Cover nechanisa) for @ position as @ xassian 1a: svage
linguist. He was interviewed by a Yepreseatative of this
Office, who used the alias of (Poul Feterpl and ceprrtaent
©f berense cover, in Pailadeipsia om 3 Septeassr i364,

3. In sccordance with ovr discussions with Nr.
Crogar of your streau, we are attaching herewith tho in-
formetion waich was received frog Subject. ccacerniag ais
background as well ss the report of tae debriefing which
was accomplished of him on 3 Septender 1264, :

7 4. Tais Office has no further operational Interest
in Subject cho Is being so advised.

$. The attached inforastion is being forwarded to
your lureau for yozr inforeation decacse of Sebject's
Curreat presence in the USA and decause of what appears
to be cn unusual, even Suspicious, story conceraing his
peckeround and the true circunstaaces of uls arrival in
t a

i .

seme SAE te atten ening

prea dere

1
i

A Eeiare

Castine ae
ETE mt Nem eet MRT Mean pene tReet AEE Spee eee hee aot



190000

SR/CI/1:77Lapustazne

“6. Tals Office would appreciate beleg advised of
any derogatory inforeation waich your bureau may develop
en Subject.

POK TUE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

cee WA

JANES AKCLETON

CSCT-326/92249-65

Attacsnents: As Stated

Distribution:

+ Addressce
+ C1/CPS/SS = full copy
- CI/LS - cy :
= CI/RA - day cy -
2 C/CI = full copy i
‘© C/SR/CI + F411 copy
+ (591-759833) + full copy - held in SR/CI/1
+ 3 + SR/O/US ~ £Uull copy
44 SRCI/I = full copy > conedack copy

+48 January 1963.

Z

see eo ete

PRs

pend
