# 104-10172-10262

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10172-10262

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

10 May 1974

ShutT: GOlITIlN Biographical Highlighes

1. nerolly "lithaslovich GOLITEYN eNLINOV was born on

25 Augus: 1930 al Piryarin, Poltaara, Oblast, Ukrainian SSR,

of lover cliss

parents. After childhood education and sturies

al the Faunze Artillery School in Ouessa, where he was a

Komso..o1 (CY Youth) organizer, Subject requested and was

granted transfer into Military Counterin:chligence.

2. The following are highlights of the chronology of

Subject's professional career:

September 1944: Subject nas nobilized and sent to the

Frunze Artillery School in Odessa where

he remained until July 1945. At that time

Subject loft the Artillery School before

completion of the course and enrolled in a

Counterintelligence School.

1945-1946:

Student at the one year course, Military

Counterintelligence School, GUKR/"SMERSI,"

Moscow.

1946-1948:

Desk officer, Assistant Operational Case

Officer, assigned to the Eastern Section

(ordeleniye) of the Sk (Soviet Colony -

security of Soviet officials abroad) Depart-

ment (otdel) of the First Chief (Foreign

Intelligence) Directorate of MGB. Head-

quarters in Moscow. During the period

November 1917 to September 1948 Subject held

the title of Referent and his office was

designated the Fifth (ST) Nepartment of the

Thiri (Eastern) Directorate of the KI

(Corsirtee

for Inforaation), but his functions

Here uncharged.

1918-1550:

Siudon: at the cho geir course, Higher

Intelligence Schoed at the 1l. Subject

studied general subjects and the English

---

## Page 2

14-00000

asi,

langusge: he bas one of 30 studenes sho

specialiied in counterintelligence durirg

the second dear of che course.

1950-1951:

Dest officer, Operasional Case Officer,

superrising si acrivities in China.

assigned 8o the Si Section, Eastern Depart-

ment, First Directorate of the MGS Head-

quarters in Moscow, the Si functions having

reveried froa the Il to tha MGB in 1949.

September 1951: At his request Subject was transferred as

a dest officer to the Anglo-American Section,

Counterintelligence Department of the First

Directorate, NGB Headquarters in Moscou.

Novenber 1951:

Subject was pronoted to "Senior Operational

Case Officer."

December 1951: The II,was dissolved and former state security

elements were returned to the MGB. Subject's

functions continued the same, but, in the

reorganiiation, he has assigned to the Cl

Section of the American Department of the

Anglo-Jerican (First) Directorate of the

First Chief Directorate of the NGB.

March 1952:

Subject and an unidentified young colleague

wrote a joint letter through the Central

.

Committee of the CPSU to STALIN maling

suggestions for a fundamental reorganization of

Soviet foreign intelligence and counter-

intelligence sork.

September 1952: While on racacion in the Georgian SSR

Subject bas ordered to Moscow for a four hour

meeting, with his friend, wich STALIN,

MALENIOS, and BERIYA. STALIN chanded the sho

officers for their suegestions, discussed

intelligence aderers in decall and asked thea

to send his a lesser mich specific proposals

---

## Page 3

14-00000

March 1953:

October 1953:

August 1958:

for necessary reorganiations, rogether

wich the names of recommended chiefs.

In a subsequene lester they recommended

sergey Iranorich OGOLTSOY, chen in prison

for "political crimes," and lergenty

P'etrorich PITOVRASON, chen chiof or deputy

chief of the yGB in the Vibedistan SSR.

STALIN net Subject and his friend a second

tine. OGOLTSON was relessed from prison and

appointed Chief of the First Chief Directo-

rate, with PITOVRANOY as his doputy. A

Chief Intolligence Directorate of the MGB

was then formed, containing a Counterintelligence

Dopartment with an Emigre desk and seven 8eo-

graphical desks. Subject was appointed by

OGOLTSOV as chief of the American Desk,

supervising approximately 15 staff persons.

When STALIN died and BERIYA took over control

of the State Security apparatus, which he

combined with the MVD into a unified MVD, he

replaced OGOLTSOY with one of his own appointees.

Subject was reassigned as deputy chief of the

Russian Emigre Desk of the CI Department of

the Second (new designation for foreign

Intelligence) Chief Directorate, MVD. Subject

supervised activities against emigres in

Austria and Germany.

Subject was assigned to the MYD residency in

Vienna, Austria, as an operational case officer

in the Emigre Operations Group.

Subject was transferred to the British Sub-

Group of the Anglo-American-French Group of the

KGB residency in lienna. Mis dubles vere of a:

counterintelligence nature, d.o. concerned

with penetration of foreden intelligence services.

3

SECHFT

---

## Page 4

14-00000

1955-1959:

One of 170 students artending the four

year insernal scourisy-counserintelligence

course, she KGB Higher School Juridical

Institute. He presented and successfully

defended his thesis on the subject of SK

activities among sovict delegations and

courist sroups iraveling abroad. He re-

ceived his diploms in August 1959. During

his school tour subject also spent several

weeks in on-the-job training as a student

assigned to pertinent elements of the KGB's.

Second (Internal Counterintelligence) Chief

Directorate, with access to operational files

on foreign diplomatic personnel in Moscow

who were KGB targets.

September 1959: Subject was assigned as a Senior Operational

Case Officer responsible for NATO information

within the Treaty Organizations Direction,

Information (Reports) Department, First

(Foreign) Chief, Directorate, KGB Headquarters,

Moscon. His function was to translate, edit

and sumnarize infornation reports obtained by

KGB agents abroad and to disseminate the

pertinent information to the Central Committee

of the CPSU, members of the Presidium, including

KHRUSHCHEV, and, in the case of information

with military aspects, to MALINOVSKIY, the

Minister of Defense. Al one time, during a

CP cell aceting, criticise was voiced about

the delays in translation and processing and

Subject las assigned to study the situation.

Thus he exanined registry logs showing she

titles of agent informacion repores, the place

acquired, she dare recedred and the dato of

dissraination of the finishod Russian Intelli

pence repores do the covernacie.

April 1900:

Subjece oss pransferred do she daerican secedon

ninet

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Tatia_.....

of the Cl Department of the Firse Chief

Directorate, NiR, to prepare for assign-

ment to the iCH residency under Soviet

Embassy cover in Helsinki, Finland, as

lie Ci officer working against foreign

intelligence services.

August 1960:

Subject was assigned to the NGB residency in

Helsinki, under the name KLIMOV (his true

name was compromised through the 1954

defection of Petr DERYABIN in Vienna), and

with the cover title of Third Secretary..

15 December 1961: Subject, with his wife and young daughter

• defected to the U.S. Government which granted

then political asylum.

15-18 Dec. 1961:

Subject and his fanily (his wife Svetlana

Mikhaylovna GOLITSYNA nee CHERNOVALOVA,

DPOB: 1 March 1929, Salsk, Restov, USSR, who

he married on 23 August 1953 in the USSR, and

daughter Tatyana, born 22 June 1955) walked

in to a J.S. Embassy officials's home in

Helsinki on the evening of 15 December 1961.

Subject and his family then flew that night

to Stockholm, Sweden by commercial flight

-

accompanied by the U.S. official. U.S. Embassy

personnel in Stockholm provided a safehouse for

the group where they stayed during 16 December

1961. That night the family and the U.S.

official fron Helsinki in company with the

U.S. Air Attache to Sweden flew in the Air

A¿rache's plane from Stockholm to Niesbaden,

Geraany. The group then started off for the

U.S.A. on an old Liberator bue the subject's

diughter became ill and the plane recurned to

liestaden. The nexe day, 11 December 1961,

she fanily soill accompanied by the U.S.

S

---

## Page 6

14-00000

Eabassy official fron Helsinki fleu on

PAR•NA fTON FrEMAtUre/Main via London

and Bernuda to d.Y.C. They then traveled

by rail to che dashingion, D.C. arca where

they finally arrired on the might of 16 Dec.

ember 1961.

28 December 1961:

Subject met Attorney General Robert XENNEDY

along with Mr. HELMS, DDP.

1962:

Subject was debriefed by ClA Officers,

officials from.orher US Agencies and teams of

Intelligence Officers from Free World nations.

Subject provided auch valuable infornation on

the KGB, its organization, personnel, operations,

aims and efforts against the Free World.

Subject, however, proved to be a difficult

handling problem, especially as a result of

his personality and his constant demands for

regular meetings with high-level Us officials

such as the President, the Attorney-General,

the Directors of CIA and the FBI and for a

policy role in che US Intelligence Community.

16 February 1962: Subject had another neeting with the

Attorney-General.

'2 July 1962: Subject met again with the Attorney-General

and Mr. HELMS.

9 July 1962: Subject had a conversation with Mr. HELMS.

22 August 1962:

Subject had interview with Mr. SORENSON of the

Nhite House Staff and Mr. Edward R. MURROW,

Director of USIA.

15 Nov. 1962:

An FBI source reporsed that the KGB was aware

•of Subject's presence in the U.S.A. and ordered

all Soviet IS personnel to report innediately

any information which they nay obtain regard-

ing Subject.

27 sov. 1962:

subject net Mr. NECONE, DCI, and protested

6

---

## Page 7

14-00000

27 Nov. 1962:

i..

14 December 1962:

21 Feb. 1963

Spring 1963:

8 August 1963;

22 August 1963:

23 August 1963:

4 Sept. 1963:

October 1963-

April 1964:

1964/1965:

June 1965:

August 1968:

October 1968:

July 1970

September 1970:

• March 1972:

SECRET

seeds

treatment by she Agency.

Subject was dissatistied with his talk

with the DCI and visited the Altorney-

General on his own unoffically. Subject and

his faally travelled as John Willian STONE, 06

[rene Anne STONE and Catherine Marde STOME Ob, D6o

Subject met again with the dcI.

Subject and his family left N.Y.C. on

SS Sylvania for England.

Subject worked with che British.

Subject returned to the U.S.A..

Subject met the Attorney-General again.

Subject met the DCI again.

Subject met the DCI again and stated that he

wanted to become an advisor to the DCI and

the Intelligence Community.

Subject in contact with the Agency mostly in

the N.Y.C. area. Subject was cooperative to

some extent.

Subjec:, according to a Dutch official,

visited The Netherlands.

11, 29

Subject interviewed by the Canadians CMP)]

in the N.Y.C. area.

Subject in contact with the British regarding

possible publication of his book.

An FBI source indicated that he had no

current information concerning the KGB

attitude regarding Subject but the source

stated that if the KGB knew Subject's location

it might undertake to elininate him.

Subject was in contact with Agency personnel

and visited Florida.

Mr. SOURWINE of the U.S. Senate Internal

Security Subcommitte expressed an interest in

au under, lEft reported that he kneu

5500

---

## Page 8

74-00000

April 1914:

September 1972

Early 1974:

shar subject had been sentenied to deach

by the 1GE. An article regardino this

sentence appeared la The Chokist seratino after

3964.

subject has in touch with cla officials. .

A KGB defector, LOGANESiAN] provided a copy

of the 1909 NGB Alphabetical List of Agents

of Foreign Intelligence Services, Defectors,

Members of Anti-Soviet Organizations, Nembers of

Punitive Units and Other Criminals under

Search Narrants. In this List the KGB listed

Subject and his wife as under the sentence of

deach for revealing Soviet State secrets.

Subject and family living in N.Y.C. Area, ho

is writing and conducting research.. He is

presently in contact with the Agency and also

with the French.

He has also visited South

Africa and worked with the South Africans in

recent years.

---

