ones Ceneta11 es ft --—_____
See a

or + 6172
pate: 7 June 1962

To «MEXICO CITY JMAAVE
From: CR

ENF:

tee 5 ADOP, C/Cl, C/Fi 2, CAM 5, s/c 2

104-10175-10136 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992,

To PRIORITY MEXT wero WAVE a :
— UT a7 :
DRS —.
wees totif2 is ; NN i
OSt aaa %e ag as
page egret fapsasingtesne td 3 Gt %
A. DETAILS HER AELATIONSHIP AMD DOTIES WITH CASTRO. IKLUDE HOW oy

C2TAINED JOB; WHE?E AND WEES KAS CONTACT WITH HIM; WHY HB REEDS FicsCH
INTESPRETER,

B, DMFO BE CAST20 DAILY ROUTINE; LOCATION HOME, OFFICK, METHODS OF
‘TRAVEL, BTC.

C. WHO ARB CLOSE ASSOCIATES CASTRO UPON WHOM HE APPAZENPLY DEFEXES
AND TRUSTS?

D, HO DOES ORI ALTUALLY WOZI? WHO MAKES POLICY, DECISIONS, CARRIES
OUT ACTION, ETC? WEO IS DOMIEANT FORCE?

. WHO IN REGING PROBABLY A= DISAFFECTED WITH THKIR POSITION, PO/ER,
DIRECTION OF GOvT., ETC?

ie an ™~N

avIwenticating

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No,

ry

“R61 22884

VK


SEEEeEEEeH nee ae: AsIINEU mrssaAvE cal
SECRET

10 : ito .
ome ow 5417
PAGE 2

P. INO RE HEALTH CASTRO, PRES DOXTICOS. ANY Lird PB SERICUS
PHYSICAL OR MECIAL ILLMZSSES OF ANY LEADE2S 2ZOLGS.
G. INFO RE ACTIVITIES CARLOS RAPAEL RODRIGUEZ, HEAD OF TisAs

RAYA CALDINES, oF ICAP; AMD HIIZA GADEA, FENUVIAN STA.

2. ALSO INTERESTED, ZUT WITHUT SPECIAL EAPEASIS LIGOOSI-1, AiY IFO
AMKIRN-1 PEESENT STATGS, POSITION, FRAME OF if1HD, BIC.
3. ALSO SUGGEST ARRAEGE OVZRT CONNO CHAKLZL FOR EXCHANGE CORRESPGIDENCE

BETWEEN SUBJS REF.

ERD OF HESCASE

C/S COMENT: *REQ ROMTS.

3 of sR: /ct , :
of reH/Le ET ag
Pant Ie sn te hws
: a . - (67 ine UIMEMTICATING Ooricee

REPRODUCTION: ‘BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Cony ma. *
