104-10227-10152| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

\ 27 Soptombrr 186} :

Western he

MUMGRANDUN FOR

cisphere iwi

SUnJECT i Cover for Crtonei Veatel! G. Jehneun

1. Coleone! Johasun will Sa proveadin; ty ILIV AVE during the
nect few deye for a brief TUY durin, ahtcn LU contact
ly, MIRG Cardasa and vill be bristed by sentir zercuune! «
hope. Upon bis retarn i y thatne will be fn eo
with seoior U.S, Coverameut offi
Government's relsittoasitz vwlta'the Coban

ats concorped with the U, 3,

Ee 2. Thie brief TOY acd tho sabesquent contacto in Washington
can probably be carried mt vilbout ary sy ecial cover Sein; cetab-
Mehsd; acwaver, for logger putlod, iinnsediate pinag should be.
formulated to provide e.durante cover. VYarlous suscertioss bave
boea mada bul only ene, tnue fur, gerne ba be bi te for at)
cuntiagenties, This eextd by ae a public releiicas counsai.

3, la the initial prase of Culone! Joh activity, wuld
plated that Colose! Johnson wootd tel Aa frlencs and ae
Tinz B Job ae a pudlic relations

de coat
Quaintances thet he was consis
founsel in the Miomi srea, He waild ne ate. that thia
would place’hi:r in coatact wits lealing Cubes:
aml AKAGCH wuuld se wittin, of this cower atory,
slructed not to maze It known to ot ta am @masceacy.
Tho typo of emergency we have iy asind night setae in Ger
Uset, intestionally or tradvartant

eome high U, A, Government off
that Coleae! Johnson was sn iuter,
the U. 3. Covermimect, tn olther of these tas coutingencies
Cotoasl Johnson rnight wtilige hty (3!) cover etary, explaining bis
public retations function, and rus deny Agency connection,
Ls other words, this caver will provide covers for his pereoaal ctatus
fa the bial ta aiditin, ta an enersenty, provida
cover for meotinge wits Sy, MIKG a24 fer cractings with UL o.



gerercen

te a) ezproach tha Len Juass Public Relatieas

officials, Other covers thu: far euggestes will noi cover ©
ceatingoncies end ignore the iact thal Colenel Jouneca Is kz
by tzue ame to Dr, MIRO, ARAGGH, and a consivovable cumber

of tgh G, 5, Goveraient officials.

ton be requested
Fira whied was
uF 3} endeavor to

2 Cover PHvii

ated th

4, Dbae doen sug,

Willeod entensively Goring Mo INATL op:
(ad goo other Men: edich could serve ths ssie parposc.

5. Your approval ead/or Comnineadis are nrgently requested
gothat we moy make the ne. ry prranzormesis through Cover,

+ Diviglen and provide Uriating guidance tus Cotenet Johnoan,

RB, KR, DAYS
Chlet, WH/4

APPROVED:

_
Chiat, Wootara Nomisphere Mviater
WH/4:RE Whedbeo:mas (27 Septornber 1961) |

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - CCG/Noc
} - Cae
- C/WHi4/Fecurity
i © AC/WH/4/ PA-Prop

