“|104-10297-101

OfiG =“ G.DROLIER:bab ©
UNIT. MH/b/PA [ 8-E-C-R-E-T ]
br. 4935 :

are 28 MAR 1961
To . Lesa

FROM, = ORECTOR

Conn BELL 15

INFO.

ACT OF 1992
2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS

——————_

140)

CLASSIFIED _MESSAGE

Leap INO cre Of
] 39996 ‘
2. YOU WAY BE AWARE ALREADY OF 22 MAR TORUATTON CUBAN REVCLITTORARY
COUNCIL IH Bre, RVENE COVERED WELL BY 23 MAR RY TODOS AND ERRALD sROB

STORIES BUT BELIEVE FOLLOWLHO MIGHT BB LEX <0 YOU,

2. TR. XORO CARDOHA WAS RLBCTED VIRTUE BY ACCLAMATION BY A aunENG
OF 28 DADIY REPRESRETING TOON STON CURA LIE WATCH SAPRESRYEAEIVE OF
AND RESPONSIVE TO ASPIRATIONS GY CUBAN PROPLE. -2@ PODIP COUNCEL PROGRAM
ZHSCED TORI PREBG CORR 38 FORIARD LOSRO AND TEMIGAEED ne LDOEE
CRIGIEAL BASIC PRINCIPLES CUBAN REVOLUTICH IN DERMOCHATIC MAE.

3+ WRILE MIRO HAS NOP OFF PURLIOLY AROUSED MEGERS OF COLNICEL Te
FORDOGEE CONCLLSION THAT IP. WILL, BE BALAICED STRUCK GIVING DERNEO
YOUNGER GEMERASTON (8.0, MRP AND SRR) “iD MORE NOOR MEIOLE AGED a
(VARORA, MACEO) SAY IN SHAPING FUTURE PoLsCyEs. CLEARLY, THERE WILL BE FO
TURNING BACK OF aLocnss, ”

4. CoUNcEL MAY Wid ECG PROV GOVT AZ APPRCPRIANE DO: AID SLE OFENS
TALLYING PODFT FOR DISSIOOOTG Tt AND OUP OF CUBA, GF OBTER RAND, GOUGKE
ET KORCTSE MOCK SELY-OSCIPLINE 1H OREN AYODD CLARO RKIA DANGER, Ln,
BISUETTY AND FACTUAL QUARRELS. IN (BIS CONMLCTION Mi RAVE OTREAGED IH COHt-
VEREATIONS AFPROP CONTACTS VACT THAT KORO ELSCIED NOT BY JUBT M0 GHP AB

tpimatino ovr

imo Orrican B-E-C-R-8-2 AUImENTiCAtina OFficee

is me PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED, Copy Na, ‘a
Fon 4389 "E, HA oS



a

00 NO, ty pee

ono, 8 . ; a CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
unt B-R-C-B-R-T
or.

WE Pine ors ws
route : Seen nact vw tony CJ
Ws en ened

FROM. DIRECTOR

CONF,

wea

ao bihed ire owe

PRPRIME PERE IMPLIED IH SOE UNSTANCRS, BUT BY BROAD REPRESENTATION WICH :
HOWEVER EXCLUDED BATISTIAROS.

‘ERD OF HESSAGR

OF,

Cc, T, BARNES, A/DDP/A
STREP Set

. B-BC-R-3-7

coe REPRQOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE If
TSM 1389 “"rermosy

