# 104-10273-10324

## Page 1

12220

1704-10273-10324.

1

2

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN.F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ТУРЕ

YEAR

NUMBER

DOC. NO.

NEW DOCUMENT RECORD

E

80

83 84

instructions for Divisions and Staffs:

035/

19808

Fill in ond Sign on line 11.

2. Use back of form for any additional comments.

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION (Cirele if appropriate) (30 CHARACTERS)

CABLE

FOAM

DISFATCH

LETTER

MEMO

REPORT

AIRGRAM

FROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARACTERS)

GUAT 19536 (SATA 944357.

DAY

8

TO/RECIPIENTAL& gHARACTERS)

MONTH

YEAR

JUn

76

3

GuatemALA City)

CLASS

WHERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS)

REFERRED BY (10 CHARACTERS)

DDO/

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

S

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)

Hemming) SASSinge LAUGERUDE GERALD

PATRiCK

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

DATE

OF

REVIEW

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

& 5 AUG 1987

7

Determinations:

A. Release

in full text

B. Release in sanitized form

C. Deny in toto

D.

Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DEFER DECISION TO 110 CHARACTERS)| COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

I EV

LAS:

E. Sustain initial denial in toto

F. Sustain initial release of

sanitized version

G. Release additional information

8

MiKeck

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMS/FPLG REVIEWING OFFICER

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)

9

FOIA

B4 85 B6 B7C

B JIMPA

11 K1

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

E.O. 12356

V.

10

1. Classification

2.

Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3.

Information pertaining

to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify the

source

5.

Information pertaining to a source

6.

Information pertaining

to

intelligence methods

7.

Location

of CIA overseas installation

8. Location

of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9. Name

of CIA employee

10. File number

11.

Pseudonym

12. Cryptonym

13. Internal organizational data

14.

Name

of an FBI agent

15.

FBI file number

16. Privacy of other individual

17. Does not pertain to request

19. Other (Specify in line 1l)

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(K) (1)

(7) (1)

(]) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1).

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (7) (0) 1j) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

REMARKS (IF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE) (40 CHARACTERS)

11

12

14

REMARKS (160 CHARACTERS)

SIGNATURE/OFFICE OF DO COMPONENT REVIEWING OFFICER

VOl-I HSCA ReVieWATHQS, 1977(HALL, DAVIS,

HATHCOCK, Hemming, HOWARD), 9JUL59-1NOUZ)

Boxsa FoldeR s

DupLicAteD IN Doc Nos. 0087100644,

This Form is Unclossified Unless The Clossification is Checked

081273.

ond The Information below is complered.

CL BY:

DECL OADR

FORM

11.82

3991A PREVI

DRV FROM:

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-000,00

1..

TO MOLED

SECRET

Jenne & 350275

55U'>

STAFF

OTHER

З:

FiL E

981395

E1:757

PAGE B1

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

IN 944357

SEC

PET 32220Z JUN 70 STAFF

CITE -

TO: PRIDRITY DIRECTOR INTO (LAZMIAMI.

REFS:

A.

B.

(111.937052)

NOT SENTILA/MIAMID (IN 890367).

1.

PASSED[STATIÓN WRITTEN REPORT AND MADE

, VERBAL REPORT IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOWLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

ON REF & CASE AND RESULTS. ACCORDING REPORT AND .

• NATIONAL

LIBERATION MOVEMENT (MIND WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

EIMERI SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINCE AUGUST 75.

IN PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD, PLOT WAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

OUT j5 SEPTEMBER 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LIFE

LATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

REPORT AND

CLAIM THAT TWO AMERICANS, BROTHERS ROBERT AND

GECALD PATRICK HEMMING INOISTATION TRACESS, WERE ALSO

INVOLVED WITH ZIMERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISTED HIM IN

ACQUIRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN YO GUATEMALA

ILLEGÄLLY IN SMALL AIRCRAFT. REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE 15S REQUESTS

BY LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

19808

SECRET

CONDUE ON EYE AT 1987

REVW ON -

CITATION _

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

---

## Page 3

13-00000

_PER.

di.

¡SON'UNIT NOTIFIEU_

¡aNCE COPY IESUEDISLOTTED

:TION UNIT

RF . FILE

N.

ACTION I

981395

E1 4767

BY

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

AT

RUN BY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

ISSUING OFFICE IS PACHIE

STAFF

VR

PAGE D2

TOR: 0822427 JUN 76

IN 944357

IS ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT BY

AUTÄDRITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

AS PURCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.

?. IS HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR-POSSIBLE USE IN

GUATEMALA.

DO REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HEMMING.

E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REGUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA.

SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA ILLEGALLY

BUT APRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HE'S

EXPIRED AID HE THERE ILLEGALLY.

2

3

FULL TEXT.COPY - DU NOT RELEASE

---

## Page 4

13-00000

THE COPY

ISSUED SLOTTED

RF

FILE

1oT,

-.4

981395

E:1.67

VR

SECRET

PAGE D3

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

REPRODUCTION

OTHER

STAFF

IN 944357

---

## Page 5

13-00000

PER

ISIAL COPIES

------

SECRET

Ten MaC

REPRODUCTION BY DINER

PENUNIT NOTIFIED_

" so 899'8

STAFF

RF. FILE

VR

S6188 1

E1A767

PAGE B4-B4

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

--..-.

IN 944357

FILE:

13.

SEC

---

