# 104-10215-10044

## Page 1

1.4-00000

104-10215-10044

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NFIDENTIAL

1.%.

15 April 177

(Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Watergate Review, April 1974

This file folder has been reviewed in connection with

subject and:

/ a. Contains no relevant information:

/ b. The documents listed below contain references to

subject or related matters which have been extracted/

copied and

forwarded to the appropriate CIA authorities.

(Signature) "

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SECRET

FILE NO.

NOTICE TO: DIVISION PERSONNEL REVIEWING THIS FILE

Please complete the following steps:

1. NAME OF REVIEWER (planne prine).

2. OFFICE DESIGNATION OF REVIEWER:

3. DATE OF REVIEW

2o Jane 72

4. Do you contemplate dissemination of Information reviewed: mo

to field

to another US Governent Agency (11 so, to whom).

The dissemination of any Office of Security investigative information,

Including FBI reports, must be coordinated with CI/OA and the Office

of Security.

5. Comments:

DO NOT REMOVE THE ATTACHED FOLDER FROM CI/DA

FORM

1-70

3230

SECRET

(88-21-201

---

## Page 3

Ti shington Fet

1972

COP Security Aide

Among 5 Arrested

In Bugging Affair

By Bob Woodward and Cart Berasicin

One of the fire men at.

rested carly Saturday in the

altempt in bug lie Domo

cratic

National Commitire

hradquarters here is the sal-

aricd

securily

coordinalur

Sor

President

Nixun's

It-

elration eonimitler.

The suspect, former CIA.

employer James 18. Mrlord

Jr.. 57, alun /i'les a separate

contract lo provide scrurily

satvines in the

Republican

National Commiller,

GOl

national chairman Bob Dole

said yesterday.

Former Allornes (icneral

Inhn

N.

Mitchell, head of

the Committer

for 1hr Re-

Flection

of the

I'resident,

said jesterday MrCord was

employed

help install

uhat commitice's orin se

curity system.

In a statement issued in

Los Ancies,

Mitchell said

Arcord and the other four

men arrested al Democratic

headquarters Salurday "werc.

not operating either in our

behalf of with our consent"

the

allempl

alleged

bugging

Dole issued a similar state-

ment.

adding that "se de

plore action of this kind in

or out of politles." An side

In Dole said he was unsure

at

this time exacily what

scourily

serviers

MeCord

was hired to perform by the

National Commillec,

Polier

sourers said

last

night that they were seck-

ing a sixth man in connee-

tion will the allempted bug.

ділд.

The

sourers

would

give no other details

Other snurces close to the

investigation said yesterday

that

there still was no ex.

planation as in why the five

susperls might have attemplo

ed in hug Democralic head-

quarters

In thic

Wateriale

at 2600 Virginia Are. NW,

of it they were working for

other individuals or organi-

zations.

"We're bafficu at

this

point

the

mys&cry

deepens," a high Democratic

party source said.

Démocratic National Com-

mittee Chairman Lawrence

F.

O'Brien

said the

"BUE

ging incident... raised the

JAMES TV. MCCORD

... retired CIA employee

ugliest questions about the

intcarity

of

the

political

process that I have encount.

ered in' a quarter century,

"No more statement of in-

nocence by Alr. Nixon's cam-

paign

manager

will dispel

these questions."

The Democratic presiden-

tial

candidates

wEre

available for comment yes

• terday.

O'Brien, in his statement,

called on Altorney General

Richard G.

Kleindienst

to

order an immediale, "search-

See ARREST, A6, Cal. 1

nat

•10

nard Barkeri Earenio R. Marlinez

from tefl, held in connrelion with allempt

rank Sturels and Virallo R Gonzales

lo bug Democratle Committre offiees.I

---

## Page 4

14-00000

ARREST, From A1

ing professional insestiga.

¡lon" of the entire matter

by the FBL

A spokesman for 'Klein-

dienst said jesterday, "The

FBI is already Investigat-

! ing ... Their investigative

report will be turned over.

to the criminal division for

appropriate action."

The White House did not

comment.

McCord, 53, refired from

the

Central

Intriligence

in 1970 after

19

years of servine and estab

lished his own "security con-

sulting firm," McCord Asso

ciates,

at

414 Hungerford

Drive, Rockville.

fle lives

at 7 Winder Ct, Rockville.

McCord is an active Bap-

tist and colonel in the Air

Force Reseryes, according to

- neighbors and friends.

In

addition to McCord,

the other four suspects all

Miami residents, have been

Identified as: Frank Sturgis

(also known as Frank Fior-

ini),

an

Amcrican

who

scried in Fidel Castro's re-

voltuionary army and later

trained a guerrilla force of

anti-Castro exiles; Eugenio

R.

Martinez,

a real estate

agent and notary public who

is active in anti-Castro activ-

*Hies In Miami; Virgilo R.

Gonzales, a locksmith; and

Bernard La-Barker, a native

of Havana said by exiles lo

have worked on and off for

the CIA since

the Bay of

Pigs invasion in 1981.

All flve suspects gave the

police false names after being

arrested Saturday. McCord

also told his attorney" that

his name is Edward Martin,

the attorney sald.

Sources in Miami said yes-

terday that at least one of

the

suspects Sturgis: was

altempting

to

organize

Cubans in Miami to demon

strate

at the Democratic

National Convention there

next month.

The

five suspects, well-

dressed,

wearing

rubher

surgical gloves

and

un-

armed, were arrested about

2:30 a.m.

Saturday

when

thes were surprised by Met.

ropolitan police inside the

29 office suile of the Demo

cratic headquarters on the

sixth floor of the Watergale.

The suspects had extensive

photographic cquipment and

some electronic surveillance

instruments

capable. of in-

tercepting both regular con.

versation

and

telephone

communication.

Police also said that lwo

ceiling panels

near party

chairman

O'Brien's

office

had been removed in such a

way as to make it possible

to slip in a bugring device.

McCord was being held in

D.C. jall on $30,000 bond

jesterriay. The other souf!

were being held there or

$50,000

hond.

All

ardt

charged with altempted bur

glary

and attempted inter

ception

of telephone and.

other conversationa.

McCord was hired as "se

curity

coordinator""

of the

Commitee for the Re-cice

tion of the President on Jan,

1,

according

Moore.

to

Powell

the Nixon commlt. '

rec's dirrctor of press

Information.

and

nore said McCordl's con-.

raM called for a "take-home,

'salary" of $1,209 per month i

and

that the ex-CIA em-

ployee was assigned an of.

fice in the commiltee's head-.

quarters. 'at 1701

Pennsyl-y

vania Ave., MV.

Within the last one or two

жесня,

Minore said, McCord

made a reip to Miami Beach!

where hoth the Repuhli-

can • and

Democratic

Na-

tional Conventions will be

held.

The purpose of the

trip, Moure said, was "to es-

tahlish security at the houch

where the Nixon Committee

will be staying."

In addition to McCord's

monthly salary, he and his

firm

were paid a total ov

$2,838 by the Nixon Commit-

ice for the purchase

and

rental of television

and •

other

security

equipment,

according to Moore.

Moore said that he did not

know

exactly

who

on the

committee stall hired Mc

cord, adding that it "defl.

nitely wasn't John Mitchell"

According to Moore,

Cord has never worked in?

any previous Nixon election

campaigns

"because

he.

didn't leave the CIA until

two gears ago, so it would

hare been impossible." As of

late yesterday, Moore said,

McCord

was

still

on

Re-Election Committee pay-

roll.

In his statement from Ins

Angeles,

former

Attorney

General

Mitchell said he

+7=9

---

## Page 5

14-00000

"surprised and

dis-

majed at reports of Ma

Cord's arrest.

"The person involved is

the proprictor of a privale

security

agency who

was

employed by our commilice

¡ months aso to assist with

the installation of our scour

" Ity system." sald Mitchell.

"He has, as we understand

H, a number of business

clients and Interests and we

¿ hase no knowledge of these

d orlallanships."

Heterring

In the allered

attemue do hug the opport.

Mon's beadquarters, Mitchell

Bald:

"There is no place in

our campaion, or in the elec-

toral process, for this type

of artisity

and we will not

permit il nor condone it."

About tio

hours

Mitchell issued

ment,

his

after

state

GOP National Chair-

= man

Dole said,

"I under-

stand that Jim McCord.

"is the owner of a firm with

& which

the Republican

Na-

• Lonal Committee contracts

„Jor security sentices

our

understanding

If

facts

of

the

accurate,

Dole,

added

"We will of course dis

continue

our

relationship

" with the firm.

Tom Wilck, deputy chair-

man of communications for

the GOP National Commit-

tee, said late jesterday that

Republican

officials

still

were checking to find out

when

McCord

was

hired.

"how much he was paid and

* exactly what his responsibil-

• tues were.

AleCord

lives with

his

¡Tile In a twostary, $15,000

house in Rockville.

After being contacted by

, The Washington Post yester-

das.

Harlan

Westrell.

who said he was a friend of

: AcCord's, Rave the follow.

ing background on McCord:

He is

from Texas, where

Fus and his wise graduated

Bajlor

University.

They have three children, a

ron who is in his third year

it the

Alr Force Academy,

ind two daughters

-==

Ta The McCords have. harm

active in the First Baptist

Church of ilashington.

Other neichhors said that

• MeCord is a colonel in the

Air Forre leserve, and also

has taught courses in seru.

rity at Mont comery Commu-

nity College.

This mould not

be contirmed jesterdas.

AcCord's

previous

ployment by the CIA was

confirmed by

the intelli

fence aseney, but a spokrs

man there said further data

•about ArCord was not asail.

; able jesterday.

several address books li

8elz04 from 1lie

: contalnel

susperis

mostly

Spanisis

names with slinnal address

• es. Police spurces snid all of

¿ the names in the books were!

bring chocked.

In

Miami, Washington

Nost

Slaff

Writer

kirk!

• Scharferberg reported that

two of the other suspects

Sturgis and Barker - are !

well known among Cubar

exiles there. Both are known

to have had extensive con :

tacts with the Contral In

telligence Agency, exile,

sources reported, and Bar.""

ker was closely associated

with Frank Bender, the CIA

. operative

who

recruited

many members

of Brigade

2506: the Bay of Pigs inta

sion force.

Barker, 55, and Sturgis

'Sy, reportedly showed up un

Invited at a

Cuban

exile

meeting in Mlay and claimed

represent an anticom

munter oreant ation hi ret.

ugees

from "captive

na.

tions," The purpose of the

meeting, at which both men

reportedly spoke,

was to

plan a Miami demonstration

on's

In support of President Nis.

decision

to mine

harbor of Haiphong.

the

Barker,

native

rana who lived both in

of Ha

U.S.

and

the :

Cuba

during

his

, youth, is a U.S. Army

vet-

eran who was imprisoned la

÷ a German POW camp dur-,

ing World War II. He later

served in the Cuban Buro de

Invaniaciones - secret De:

3

-

lice-under

Fidel Castro!

and fled to Miami In 1958.

He reportely was one of,

the principal leaders of the

Cuban Revolutionary Coun

cil, the exile organization

established with ClA help to

organize the Bay of Pigs In-

vasion.

Sturgis, an American sol-

dier of fortune who joined

Castro in the hills of Oriente

Province In 1958, Jeff Cuha

in 1059 with his close friend,

1 Pedro Diaz Lanz, then chief

l of the Cuban air force. Diaz

Lanz, once active in Cuhan

pallo

activilies in Minmb

more recently has been rof

ported Involved in such

• right wing movementg as the

John Birch Inciety and the

Rev. Billy

James

Ilargis®

Christian Crusade.

Sturgis,

more

commonly

known as Frank Fiorini, lust

his American citizenship in

1960 for serving in a foreign

mililary force Castro's army

—but, with the aid of then

Florida Sen. George

ers, regained it

Smath-

Conle outing to this story

were Washinpton Post Stalf

Writers E.

Bachinski,

Bill Gold, Claudra

Levy,

Kirk Scharfenberg,

J.Y.

Smith and Martis Weil

---

## Page 6

4-00000

SECRET

SET UP

FOR FOA

SET UP

FOR OR

INSTRUCTION SHEET

EXPEDITE

IADICES

INGUIRY

DATE

COVIAT NAME

CHECK

7 SEP 1966

Recene so

AREA.

ORso

RASE NO, 231.

251689

DATE

USE

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

EXTEND POA FOR

DAYS UNTIL

REIASTATE POA FOR DAYS UNTIL

FORDARD ATTACHUENT TO DIVISION

FORBARD TO

SECURITY

OfFICE

АТРАСНОКМІ

"CANCEL PER DIVISION MINO DATED

‹No notice

so Diviaton)

• 1.

I Rept 1941

TO DIVISION

see

rosarks)

REQUEST RI TRACES

REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

REGUEST FIELD TRACES

REQUEST

оло і

•00 11

ALOUIST GREEN LIST

REQUEST RESULTS FI/O DOSSIER MENICO

REVIES TI'D COLLATERAL INFORMATIUS

REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL

INTERROGATION FROM

BICURITY OFFICE

00488000

REVIER SICURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CA/DA

REVILN SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CIÍDA

KEVIEW

AT CIIDA

DEPORT

ECTRUTTRO NUPONT

ATTACHED RETIRENCE,

ADVISE CHIDA

OF NATURE AND SIGNIFICANCE

FILE

TICKLE

NOTICE

SECOND

ORSO MOTICE TO DIVISION

POA EXPIRED

PLEASE

MAS BEEN

¡MOTCATED, POA MILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELICO.

SUBMLY PRO 11, 8F, MITMIN SO DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SUBJECT

•FAILUME TO SUBMIT PRO lI AS REQUIRED UNDER CSI NO.

10-5 OR TE INDICATE ANY FURTHER IMTEREST IN OBTAIMING APPROVAL

FOR TME OPERATIONAL USE OF

SUBJECT.

REMARKS

0 7 SEP 1966

18/. Edward P. BrOT

MATURE

Caree

707

SECRET

128)

---

