LEMS EN

104-10308-10042| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }
a o = rea) Ate)

| S : i : SECRET “

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: JMARC - General

Job #  74-409/16 ©

File # 19-129-15

i Dated included; Mar 60 thru June «.
i 60

Volumes: 6

The JMARC cryptonym was an umbrella project covering

activities against the Cuban Government.
Findings: There was no information relating to the

terms of reference.

Of interest are the attached two cables
concerning travel to the U.S. of five Cuban Government agents

to ebeuce Cuban opposition leader Manuel Antonio tony" ARONA.

DIRECTOR 36823 (ouT 90086) 25 June_ 1960. t MEXI;

XAAZ-26269 (our 90031) dated 25 June 1960 to FBI.

o3
Ge lipe ACEVEDO) -”
Researcher

4

Up


| 10 «> DORE, HAVA : RB Piling (clieck one) :

No 08 Record Value. Destroy. (|
RI file this copy as indicated =~ ba

“+ Branch copy filed as indicated
RE Indexing (check one)

CONF: }; WH 6 Marked None required J
q Signature: A |

INFO.s  DOP;, COP, “ADDP/A, S/c.2.- a

hot a 7 i 93

“fROMs DIRECTOR,

INFO. «HAVA cre Oe. ‘ ca

4, ‘TELECON MASH RRFORTS FIVE CASTRO AGENIS RECERILY LEYT CUBA,
H "3 Fon FLAME AND 2 FOR MEW YORE WITH TASK TO ABOOCT AYA. pines
2, THO BEING FASGRD OUEHVE. SOURCE WAS YO PELABZ THROUGH
BARKER'S WIFE. ; :
oe “SUGGBST AMEANK EE WARNED TAKE NOEL

a SM ARC- “phontecd

ttu/abh Po
be bed

a8 eur aes a

| “s a XIBG,C/iD COORDINATING seen BE Bile,
# - RELEASING OFFICER. AUTHENTICATING OFFICER:
pe

13890 an ‘REPRORUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. 7 Copy Ne,

135)



ROUTING

TO + FEDERAL, BIREAN, OF INVESTOGHRECH

‘No C8 Record Value. Destroy. 0 ; cD CABLE SECT
eee ace ees Bib
ems Ey 9 a o
RE Indexing (check one):
cour ys on OE 1

| | scarasate |
IMMEDIATE
OUT 90031
GUTS003i
TO H a CITE DIR

XAAT 626)

voner (Meiei-
set

INFOs ci, Cl/oPS, FI, S/¢ 2

~ | DATE OF INFO: 25 JE 1960
SUBJECT os TRAVEL TO THE UNITED STATES OF CUBAN GOV:RIMENT ACERS

‘

1. ACCORDING 10 A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS TX

CUBAN OPPOSITION. CIRCLES, FIVE CUBAN GOVERNMENT HAVE LEFT CUBA
- FOR THE UNITED STATES, THREE EN ROUTE TO MIAMI 0 TO NEW YORK.
"(RHE PURPOSE OF THEIR TRIP Is TO ABDUCT ‘ONTO Y*TONY") VARCHA,

CUBAN OPPOSITION LEADER.

"7 7 By NARON a
0. THE UNITED STATES. TON RECEIVED ON THE ABOVE SUBJECT
ILL BE MADE AVAILABLE 70 YOUR Z

3. THE ABOVE TOR 13 HEING MADE AVAILABLE TO THR DedcRATION
AND =e
tieg SeUAAG Hered -

\S~tQe- it

Yen bo- Pee!

«asp

