T0d-0643"10000| [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

3 ECR ET 1215302. MAY 77 STAFF
SITE DCD/MIAMI 14956
iGt DCD/HEAD QUARTERS.

‘0: OSG (WALKER) =
IWINTEL ne ~
3USd2 FRANK STURGIS — : a
IEF s MAINWARING/WALKER TELECON OF 11 MAY 1977 2

1. ROBERT W. MORGAN IS A MIANI-BASED ADVENTURER AND

*PODUCER OF SEMI-DOCUMENTARY MOVIES WHO HAS OCCASIONALLY
'GLUNTEERED INFORMATION TO THE MFO. HE IS ACQUAINTED WITH
“RANK STURGIS. ON 11 MAY. 1977 MORGAN TELEPHONED THE NFO
iD IMPARTED THE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING.

2. WITHIN THE PAST FEW DAYS, STURGIS SAID THAT HE (STURGIS)
{aD BEEN APPROACHED TO ORGANIZE TRAINING FOR 290 PANAMANIAN
HISSIDENTS TO. OCCUR IN COSTA RICA. TRAINING WOULD LAST 38
1AYS AND WCULD BE PART OF A LARGER ANTI- TORR JOS EFFORT.

% PROVIDED NO FURTHER DETAILS.

3.° STURGIS ALSO SAID HE WAS NOW ASSOCIATED WITH THE
AFRO-CUBAN COMMITTEE", POSSIBLY A NEW GROUP, WHICH HAS
WONG ITS GOALS, COALESCING CUBAN EXILE OPPOSITION TO CASTRO
<CTIVITIES IN AFRICA. STURGIS SAID THE GROUP INITIALLY IS
SEEKING 50 MEN FOR SERVICE OF SOME SORT IN ANGOLA AND ZAIRE.
‘N THIS RESPECT, STURGIS WILL DEPART SOON FOR LONDON AND
RUSSELS,

4. WE SHOULD NOTE THAT MIAMI AREA ABOUNDS-IN STCRIES ABOUT
RANK STURGIS, OR PURPORTING TC ORIGINATE WITH STURGIS. WE
AVE, HOWEVER, NC REASON TO DOUBT STURGIS ACTUALLY SAID THESE
KintGS TO MORGAN.

5.’ SOME OF MORGAN'S FILM PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES TAKE HIM

D001 36



°AGE 2 DCD/MIAMI. 14056 SECRET

fO UNUSUAL PLACES OR LEAD TO UNUSUAL PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS.
iE HAS AN OVERRIDING CONCERN THAT HE MIGHT AT SOME PCINT

3E IDENTIFIED AS A POLICE INFORMANT AND THEREFORE WILL NOT
TALK TO THE FBI. HE HAS ALSO ASKED US TO REFRAIN FROM DC ING
50 IN MATTERS AFFECTING HIM.

6. NCNETHELESS, SOME OF THIS SHOULD BE PASSED 10 THE
FRI. WE CAN TRY AGAIN TO PERSUADE MORGAN TO DEAL WITH THE
"GRE RESPONSIBLE AGENCY. ALTERNATIVELY, WE WOULD pied)
PASSAGE OF SUBSTANCE AT HEADQUARTERS LEVEL.
£2 IMPDET CL BY 811668
SECRET -

