|104-10186-10097|
we

4jpv

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
+

. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Th'U'ee ence To ene TC toe Utoomione tr revenue of eke ta buy muna wena enevinorieet perwe © OEE OPEN TO CLA
SECRET Background Use-Only
NO FOREIGN DISSEM Do Net Reproduce

atrort NO. CSCI-316/00430-68 |

COUNTaY Cuba

SuMECT Felix Rafacl LNU, alias “Alberto” oate si. 96 4 February 1965 #1
and Elva LNU, alias “Elisa” ie!
 +NO. PAGES. 2
REFERENCES CS-311/00115-6. j
: : OSa1y 1964 : :

n : uly i
wo, "1964 :
pace a Washington, D. C. .

Date ACQ. January 1965 FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS 13 UNEVALUATED (HORMATION, SOURCT OAADINGS ARE OLMINITIVE APVUAISAL_OF CONTENT 18 TENTATIVE

sourceA former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964. a

Headquarters Comments

The following report is onc of a series containing personality |
ianal information provided by the source and includes supplemental 4
information from the recorcs of this Agency.

It is requested that the aadressces take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this fgency.

1. Felix Rafael LNU, alias "Alberto," is the head of the
Central Processing Sectio: (Tramites) for the Departmento de
Liberacion Nacional (Natic ial Liberation Department - LN) of
the Direccion General de Jiteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence - DGI). He cirries a carnet of the Cuban Ministry
of Interior. His salary i+ $220 per month,

2. Felix Rafael LNU ji a Cuban citizen, born about 1926, and
probably comes from Santi: 7o de Cuba, We is about five feet five
inches tall, weighs about 20 or 125 pounds, and has a small
build. He has a white com lexion; small black slanted eyes;

@ small nose, mouth, and c in; white even teeth; large protruding
ears; a thin face; and a s)all head, His hair is black and he
wears it in a long crew cu. He also wears dark rimmed glasses.

3. Felix Rafael LNU i: marricd to Elva LNU, alias "Elisa,"
and they have twin boys wht were born in fbout April or May
1964 (Elva was on maternity leave in April 1964). Elva LNU
is a Cuban citizen and was ‘orn about 1938. She is approximately
five feet five inches tall, weighs between 115 and 120 pounds,
and has a thin build. She 1as a white complexion; short,
straight, blond hair; ligh’ colored eyes; even white teeth;

S.CRET “Se
NO_FCiEIGN DISSEM seireneee
fe Tora “Taawr T rave an Tesa MAXX Toca FoI 2

mwena
wena

REP CINCLANT  CINCSO # “RNS
THis: Field Awibution dicted by “B29

MUNEORMATIONMRIERO:

sa /conifit2754 LATA FT

a

versie Wi/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4

NUGO.RIMATLON RIEL RIM

NADAL LX-2236 LX 2267

ey Gnaotrne maior union.


i

: SECRE ieee
NO FOREIGN DISSEM —CiCI231600430-68

| a small mouth; and a thin face, neck and lips. Elva. hin an extremely
violont temper and has a reputation for “running arounc* with mtn,

4. Elva LNU is also employed by the DGI (see refer:nce) and her
salary is $176 per month. She carries a carnet of the Cuban Ministry

of Interior.

5. Felix Rafael LNJ and E£lva LNU rent a hone at Sfth Street, No. 4116,
between 41st and 43rd Streets, Mariano, Habana, Cuba. Their ‘telephone

number is 22-2770.1 7
Headquarters Comment e

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information.
: on the above two individuals. ro
1 .
H .

ate id

! .
i .
és

i

!

SECRET

NO FORZIGN DISSEM
