# 104-10128-10299

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10128-10299

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECURITY. VIOLATION REPORT

DETAILS OF VIOLATION

On 11 AprIl 1961 et 7:30 P.M., chartomn Edas Willlems found a bag of cleast fled

vaste In Roca 2510, Quarters Eye, and to earload Quari Cooper, yoo reparted the fisa

ing to the lest security affice. Algat security Offloer salada Istant to Roos

2510 and noted tbat the taste bag, undch contalned vaste seterial elabalfled througt.

SECREi, had been found exposed on tag of sate lo, 5122. is ales sotea test be la

porniad toa vaste bag at 8845 P.M.

2. INDIVIDUAL(S) RESPONSIBLE

OFFICE

DD/P

DIVISION

BRANCH

A.

B.

C.

3. DESCRIPTION OF HOW VIOLATION OCCURRED

Mr. Phillip, the custodies of the waste beg and the last abetpalst of Bock 2520,

stated that he was reaponsible for the tolstion in that was he left the ose1ce

at 6110 P.M, De fELLAS tO IubllIs tht he had sot tacured MlA vasta bag.

A. SECURITY HISTORY OF PERSONIS) RESPONSIBLE

I. Pulllipa has bous eployed by the Agency dince March 1960. A SeVION Of Il

ecord Inicated an ExpOsed Classifled lSteral securIty Thalation Much acoUred

22 Аргія 29б0.

SIGNATURE: CHIEF. SURVEY BRANCH

SIGNATURE, SECURITY INVESTIGATOR

...i 1961

ENDORSEMENT

TO : DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

FROM:

ACTION TAKEN:

(Area Security Officer)

DATE

11-60 9/2a EDITIONS

PREYIOU

SIGNATURE

CONFIDENTIAL

RETUAN TO CIA

Background Use Only

¡Do Not Reproduce

(43)

3/100

---

