# 104-10186-10064

## Page 1

104-10186-10064

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION EPORT INFORM

_TIONEREPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

IB, UBO BANA TAI NOd T91 UNA UAMAAMSNDO D PATARIOR Al UNIED IN ADY MANDAS tO AL MINÓMINA

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT EUlOgIO PONS (AlIAS "ElOy")

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

:CS 61-316/00698-65

11 February 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE 07 1964

INFO.

Washington, D. C.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. December 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

TMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATIÓN. SOURCE ORADIMOS ARR DITIMITIVR, APPRAISAL ON CONTENT IS VENTANIVE

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service unt1l April 1964.

CS-311/00115-64

(pago 8).

RETURN TO CIA

8 July 1968 Background Use Crly

Do Not Reproduce

Headquarters Conmente

The following report 18 one of a serles containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information trom the recorde of this Agency.

It 18 requestod that the addressees take no action on any of

the indlulduals mentioned in the personality reports without

f1rs: checking with this Agency.

of the Departamento

EulogIo PONS, allas "Elos," 1s the administrative chlel

de Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation

Department

-LN) of the. Direccion General

de Inteligencia

(Goneral Directorale of Intelligence - Del).

2. PONS, a negro, was born about 1940. He is flve leet seven..

Inches tall

and weighs abour 145 pounds.. PONS resides on Calle

Sepilma, Esquina 60, Apto 2, Miramar, Habana, Cuba. 1

Icadguerters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

On EUlORIO PONS.

1 en

SECRET

NO FOREIGS DISSEN

STATE

TOIA

T ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

INAVY

CIVSSO #

INSA

OcR

TFBT 2

i&eN'S

Norm: Hold distritullon indrotad by "#".)

'INFORMATION REPORT MINEOR MATIONEREPORT

WI! SALEOB!

WS: 5/R

I TELCAVADAIN

WH. SA/MOBLI

3 LELBRILISHI

WHI SA. CI

RID'AN

TOTALO MISA

(1).

WE 1 (2). CI 4, RID 1

11a100n.

_LX 2290

JFGA 19020 (92*64)

NO PROJECT (AHNUG'1)

CSCI-316/ 00695-65

BES 15

19-5-1

FORM NO 1

OBSOLIT& PREVIOUS EDITIONA

1201

---

