'104-10185-10150) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

cana papa

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

tetoqmation arestias the Retisoad Defense of the United ctates within the moaning of 4 Dewees Laws Tee

TOR toe uncamiaiaa oF reveaion of wich in say simaer to am unautbortend person le frcaiiited 7 law,
i SECRE
xo FOREIGN DISSEL
county Cuba Rz70aT NO, CSCI-336/00009-64
cuassct te PIREZ aaaeend _ DATE DISTR, 7 July 1964
yaoudoayn "GUALTERIO™:
i NO, PAGES 5 RETURN TO gia
Background Use|Only
REFERENCES Do Not Reproduce

carsor = 1964

IO, i

pacsa Washington, D.C. ca
i FIELD_REPORT NO.

at DAT ACQ. June Ios
‘i T_TRISUS UNIVALUATCO _ INFOSMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS AGE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OP CONTENT 18 TENTATIVE,

fOURCS A forner Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban .
Hi “‘Iatelligence Service until April 1964, A

Headquarters Cosnent. The following report is one of

a : a ceripo containing personality information provided by
‘: the ccurce and includes supplenental information from the Peeeeeecet
i

records of this Agency. |
\

1. Earle PSREZ Friman, pseudonym "GUALTERIO," was, until :
recently, the chief of the Dircccion General de Intelicencia rt "i
(@GI - General Directorate of Incelligence) in Uruguay. On
Er roturn ta Cuba, PEREZ was suspected by Cuban intelligence
2 having been recruited by the United States or the
Usuguayans and while the investigation was being conducted
a, DEREZ vocided at the Hotel President ¢ in Habana. Doubts
. concerning him were caused in part by the fact that he
gppearod to be living beyond his salary both in Uruguay and
in -his previous post (unknown). This led to a discreet
davestigation on the part of the Cuban intelligence community
- - + and after the files had been reviewed and a partial
investigation conducted, the Cuban intelligence service
dociced to interview PEREZ, It was discovered, however, that
ha had already left the hotel aad had received asylum in the
Uruguayan Embassy; this was about ll April 1964, As a result
of the discovery of PEREZ' asylum, all communications from the
headquarters of the Cuban inte}ligence service to field

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ape

~Ieaa

nae Tae Trea IXEXXRR Tce.
CINCSO # IENS

1 Fam rane T
T TLZEASiId

i
: RID/an I

WE 1 (2), Cl 4, RID 1

oy’
aus LAGOP BS OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EOrTTONS 201-726325_
ee


NO FOASIGN DISSE: | j :
aa :

i

tesa Fore cispended in order that a daazse assescaent could
be poco, It was concluded that PBRDZ had probably identified all
as © new, that ee had teen previding intors S258 ca
oy

sk. officars at the Cuban tatellicence Bervice
beadguartera chould be informed co that precaution’ could be taken
Zor, tho future, On 17 April 1964 a neetiag of ali responsible
¢.ch officers in the DGI was called to discuss the foregoing

casa and other allied matters.
the aforenentioned meeting, the following topics were discussed:

2. At
‘The comunication systen and the security of every officer
seigned abroad. :

The need for suspending shipment of ares ard explosives until
further notice (this was dond at once).

Spoctfteally, the sending of a shipsent of explosives to
Lexico was suspended. =

. 4. Ordora wero issued that, aside fron nessages, only funds
necessary to conduct operations should be sent abroad.

3, Just prior to 21 April 1964 the suspension of operations, as ae
mentioned above, was lifted and communications and operations

continued in a normal fashion.

4. PEREZ continued to reamin in asylum and the DGI concluded that
the coylum had been authorized by thg Yrusuaxap government prior
to PEREZ' having left the country. [ Eacd Sool ass tad

Headquarters Comments,

In a doctnent dated 15 February 1963 it was reported that one’
Earl PERLZ Freicaan, presumably identical with Earle PEREZ
Frinan, a Cuban, arrived in Montevideo about 16 January 1963.
Ee was working at the Cuban Ezbassy and uas reported to possibly
be the replacement for Isaac ORRANTIA, chief of the G-2 section.

4 rogort dated 7 May 1963 stated that Earle PEREZ Frinan was aa
attache at the Cuban Esbassy in Montevideo. Ye yeportedly

Sn ncn net ame 0 ee ee ees ese



poten nee

. SE wits ee Hat Senate i
NO FOREIGN DISSE

-3-

arrived in Montevideo in January 1963 and carried Cuban diplomatic
passport number 63/4; he was described as being single and
residing at Boulevard Artigas 1591,, apartment 602.

In a document dated 15 May 1963 Earle PEREZ Friman was reported
to be either the chief or deputy chief of the Cuban biobhateiaie Sana
Bervice section of the Cuban Embassy in Montevideo.

The following biographic information on Earle PEREZ Friman, dated:
3 June 1962, was given to a representative of this Agency by a

Cuban defector:

Earle PEREZ Friman, Cuban intelligence service chief at
the Cuban Eubassy in Montevideo, was born approxinately
1940 in Oriente, Cuba. He is single, imrature, full of
Comsunist theory, does not drink, likes girls and goes
with an unknown Uruguayan blonde, He is jovial and very
popular. PEREZ is short, chubby, young looking and has
a medium complexion. He has a limited education and is
not cultured, but is smooth. FEREZ is the only officer
at.the Embassy. who deals directly with the Uruguayan
Foreign Ministry.

Tue following information, dated 27 June 1963, was received by a
representative of this Agency from a group of Cuban emigre's
trained in the techniques of information collection and who have
provided useful reports for two years:

a, In 1960, Earle PEREZ Friman as employed delivering mili
for a dairy which was owned by his father, (fnu) PEREZ
Uartinez, in Gibara, Oriente Province, Cuba. PEREZ was
a great supporter of the Castro regime, a menber of the
militia, and a Communist indoctrinator (sic).

b.° PSREZ’ nother, Josefa FRIMAN Exposito, aka "Pepa," was a
staunch supporter of Marxist theories, a Communist
indoctrinator (sic), a menber of the militia and the chief
of a defense committee, She resides in Gibara. . She was born
about 1923, is five feet five inches tall, weighs about 140
pounds, has light brown’ hair‘and is attractive.

c. Other nembérs of PEREZ’ family include the following: his
maternal grandfather, Ruperto FRIMAN Sarayaldi, an individual

SECRET
NO. FOREIGN DISSE!



n

SECRE
NO FOREIGN DISSE

tate

tha cnjoys benefits fron the Communist regine. A raternal
ncle, Ruperto FRivAN Exposito, vho was-acninistrator of the
ara ous house in 1959 and since tzéa has operated
his own printing shop in Gibara. A matersal uncle, Jose
FRIEAN Exyosiio, wno worked as an accoustast for the Gibara
sunicipal government prior to the advent of the Castro

regine.

6. ‘The following information was received from the same group which

they received the

reported the information in paragraph 5 above
arrived in the

inzorsation frou two untested Cuban sources
United States in 1961. .

a. The first source said that PEREZ Friman used to live on
J, Aguero St. corner of Carlos M. de Cespedes St., Gibara,
Griente Province. His parents are Regizo PEREZ (mat. unk.)
“and Josefa FRIMAN Exposito, both of whor xere born in
approxinately 1918. Josefa FRIMAN Exposico was the
President of a Defense Committee and a militiawoman.

PEREZ Frinan was born in approximately 1541, is white, has
a rosy cozplexion, is approxinately five feet five inches
tall, with light brown hair and eyes, a strong, athletic
build, and his movements are fast.

He went to grammar school in the “Jose Martti" private school,
and up to 4th year of high school in the Holguin Institute
of Secondary Education, Ordente province. In April 1962 he

e was given a schclarship to study the diplocatic career in

Habana (source acquired this infornation in a letter from
Cuba from one of his daughters who is nov ia Cuba).

To the best of source's recollection, PEREZ Frinan's best
friends vho share his political ideas are: Captain Luis
PINEDA Perez, now a Rebel Arny Major assigzed to the DTI in
Habana; Eailio GONZALEZ Sablon, a G-2 nerber, teacher, and

. leader of the 26th of July House; Pablo Juss FERNANDEZ (mat.
un:.), who made a trip to the USSR togethe> with a few
Cuban artists, including Odalis FUENTES (ast. unk.).

PEREZ Friman is the person who used to sig= the I1.D. Cards

. of militiamen from Gibara until 14 April 62 (information
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM a


SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEX

= 5

acquired by source through personal correspondence received
from Cuba).

PEREZ Friman personally accused source of presiding an anti-
‘Castro meeting, and source was arrested cn 26 Noverher i959.
The prosecutor asked for a 24 year imprisonment sentence

during the trial hele in tay 196C, but source was acquitted.

PEREZ. Friman also accused source's daughters in January 1960
of -"lack of respect.” Ke made one of these accusations in
Gibara and the other is Holguin so that there vould be a
double order of arrest against them.

b. . The second source said that Earle PEREZ Friman was }nown by
the nickname “El Bonitillo” /sémething like “Pretty Boy'7 in
Gibara and in the Holguin Institute of Secondary Education.

One day PEREZ Frimar sent to source's hone in Gibara, Oriente
Province, commandeered a station wagon and took it to the
Rebel Army Post. saying that he (PEREZ Friman) vas the one
who gave orders. Tnis station wagon was gradually dismantled
in this Rebel Army Post.

According to source, aS of the time of nis departure from
Cuba, PEREZ Friman sas a supporter of the regime.

Source has news that PZREZ Friman was given a scholarship to
take a diplomatic course and that he was studying English.

It was reported in a docucent dated 11 October 1962 that Earle
PEREZ Friman, Cuban iateltigence chief in Montevideo, will be
leaving Montevideo for Cuba soon although he has not yct received
his passage fare; he is, however, no longer working. Eduardo

HERNANDEZ Gispert, Cuban Cultural Attache, has taken over’ PEREZ
functions in the Embassy -

SECRET
NQ FOREIGN DISSEM
