104-10129-10126

| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

UNITED STATES GOV £RNMENT

Memorandum ee
cies SECRET,
TO: Ghiet/FIOB DATE: 30 September 1965

FROM : J. F. Meredith

SUBJECT: SLOBODA, Vladimir /
#350565 c!

SFG A
J feet
1. At the request of the Deputy Chief, SRS, a summary has been My)
prepared concerning Viadimir SLOBODA, Polish-born United States Army

enlisted man who defected on 2 August 1960 and was granted political
asylum by the USSR.

BACKGROUND

2. The following background information concerning SLOBODA was
obtained from Army Chief of Staff Intelligence (ACST).

~~ SEGNEL [ames] /

ae eee ne os




SECRET

SLOBODA's KNOWLEDGE OF CIA PERSONNEL

8. ‘George W. FIINEY; #87796, CIA staff employee assigned to the »
{German Station from 1956 to 1962, stated in October 1960 thet es early
as March 1960 SLOBODA knew him by his true name. “FINNEY. saw SLOBODA
about three times in the latter's office concerning the acquisition of
basic intelligence materials such as East German telephone books, city

plans, etc. “FINNEY questioned other CIA employees concerning their
knowledge of SLOBODA. None had any personal contact with him but all
felt that they had seen him at the Camp King coffee bar. ‘FINNEY.
thought it conceivable that SLOBODA could have learned the true nemes
of CIA employees at Camp King. -

POSSIBLE RECRUITMENT ATTEMPT BY SLOBODA

9. The following information was extracted from U.S. Arry Counter-
intelligence Summary, dated 15 February 1961, concerning two approach
operations against USAREUR personnel by Soviet Intelligence Services (sts).

-3-

SECRET :


a SECRET

CONCLUSION

10. It is not known whether SLOBODA is affiliated with the Soviet
Intelligence Services at this time. According to a Foreign Service
Dispatch, dated 19 December 1962, from the American Embassy, Moscow,

Rr 7 Y SIECCEAAT HE
L/ Tomn F. Veredith

JFM:ked
he

SECRET.

es een eee

