(104-40186-10023) ; 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JENTRAL PNTCLUGLNCE. AGENCY

‘8 Uifunnetion afeetirg the Mameiat Defecee cf ue United Sveum wiinin the aeaaieg of be Teswrass Lee,

The cantante: cor
ne TH the Weermlasiog of fereaten of Shika ta May mtacer to aa uaaucauns pecnse We preasnited Dy

I UBC Bece
bg SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTaY Cuba é * aaront No, CScr-316/01653-64
SUMECT "CASTOR" (pseudonym) DATE ISTR. 13 October 1964
‘ NO, PAGES
REFERENCES,
pare oF 2964
Mor ganniipen! ioe! i
DATE Aca. Octobor 1964 FIELD REPORT NO. : {

“IMIS 18 UNEVALUATED (OUMATION, SOUICE OAADINGS ARE DIMINITIVE APONEAL OF CONTENT 16 TENTATIVE

source,.A former Cuban IS officer who ser'vod withthe Cuban Intelligence = |
Service until April .1964. ‘ :

Headquarters Comments

: The following report is one of a series containing personality :
i information provided by the source ‘and includes supplomental ?
information from the records of this agency. H Ht

e 1

It is requested that the addressces take no action on any of the |

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first 4
checking with this Agency. e H

1. "CASTOR" (pseudonym) is a secretary and assistant to
Manuel PINEIRO Losada; his job is receiving telephone calls and
callers for PINEIRO. “CASTOR" recently made a trip with PINEIRO
to Moscow.

2. CASTOR" was born about 1929, ia five foot eight inches
tall, 155 pounds, and has a medium build. He has a fair ee
comploxion, black wavy hair, black eyes, and usually dresses :
in civilian clothes. 1,2,3 .

Headquarters Comments

1. Since source reported that "CASTOR" recently made a trip
to Moscow with PINEIRO and the travel manifest reflecting
PINEIRO's travel from Prague to Habana on 11] May 1964 was
located with tho name of Castor GOMEZ appearing directly
under PINEIRO's, it is the assumption of this Agency that =
"CASTOR" and Castor GOMEZ are one and the samo. PINEIRO's
passport number was listed as 5552/057506 and GOMEZ" was
listed as 5552/057504.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

wwe

3_LX-1824

SO PROJECT (AMMUG AL)

'SCI~315/01653-g4
ivan

i i a

resi Saal Tee cocoons
pes 7@), wi), 4, Ripy [oe [ean
Se

4 fF TU



ow

paseepeeateae

ee

a ae atl

35

- Castor GOMEZ Prado attended a a

SEC R.
NO FOREIGN DIS

-2-

The records of this Agoncy reveal that in August 1961, Castor
GOMEZ Prado was a socrotary with the Cuban cereset ach to the
ECOSOC Conference in Montevideo.

A report dated 2 ‘Yovruary 196: stated sets fa January 1962,

Punta del Este. He was described as ary.

SECRET . >
“ NO FORSIGN DISSEM

3

inisters ia.

2

