“"404-10228-10091 i [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
¢

SECREI |
SENSITIVE (9-34-95) 3

19 June 1962

1

MMEMORANDUM FOR: Brigadier General E. G. Lansdale , |
I

'

i

SUBJECT : U. S. Army Eolietment Program for Cubans >

1. Attached for your taformation is a summary of reporte on
recrultment for the U. S. Army-by Cuban ealle groupe la the Miami

aroe.

2. Also of Interest In thie connection fe the following additions}
tnformation:

1

i

!

8. Col, Wendell U. Johnson, our coatact with Dr. Jos: |
MIRO Cardona, has been informed by MIRG's secretary, Ascension 1
Cadavieco FEREZ, that twenty-one mombera of the Dernocratle |
I

:

i

i

Christian Movement went to the Caribbean Admiesion Center on

12 June 1962 to eniiet in the U. S. Army at the office of tat Lt.
Fernando Ordas, They wero told, according to PEREZ, that

14. Urdas was no longer at the Caribbean Admission Centor and
that the Cuban enlistrnent activities were “winding up," PEREZ told
Col. Johnson on 15 June that the same group had eubsequently gone
to the main U. &. Army recruiting office in the ‘{aml area to enlist.
‘They reported that they were told that they could not be accepted
because they did not nest the English language requirement and that,
{f they had been accepted for enlistment, they could be stationed out-
side the United Etates.

b. In collecting Information concerniag Cubane who might
be eligible for United States military training, Capt. Ernesto
DESPAIGNE Peres, Military Coordinator for the Cuban Revolutionary
Counell, contacted & group of former Cuban pilote in the Miami area. i
Ae a reoult of this contact, 8 representative of this group teleshoned :
the Cffice of the Secretary of Defense on or about 11 June 196< to ask
if they were to be given military training soon and received a negative

CSHTIVE
SuURET


ECRET

SEveTHT

reply. On 15 June Mr. Robert A. Hurwitch of the Pegartment of
State telephoned Manuel Antonio de VARONA y Loredo to inquire
about this incident. VARONA was not familiar with the matter
and referred the query to DESFAIGNE, However, VARONA also
informed Col. Johnson, who telephoned Air. Hurwitch on 15 June
and explained the background. Nir. Hurwiteh told Col. Jahns
that he was concerned that too much talk by Cubans might
jeopardize the U. S. Army program: now under consideration,

3. In commenting on the reports in the attached summary,
Col, Johnson stated that MIRC has Seen urging the Cuban exile
groups to encourage thelr men to calist in the U. S. Army but
that the arguments reportedly used in Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the
ettachment are completely contrary to the instructions ho gave
MIRO, In MIRO's absence Col. Johnson discussed this matter

cwith VARONA, who denied that such arguments are being used.

VARONA atated that his group (Movimiento de Reacate Constitu-
clonal Democratico) had decided six months ago to et in the
enforcement of the registration regulations of the Selective
Service Syetem and to encourage its mambers to join the U. 5.
Army. VARONA further reported that thie program had not
gotten started-untll June but that he has a Iiet of 600 membera,
18 to 36 years of age, who are potential military matertal.
According to VARONA, his group now plang to determine how
many of these have actually registered and/or enlisted.

4. Col, Johnson also commented that he had been informed
by the U. S. Army recruiting office in Miami that all aliens must
register aix months after arrival in the United Sates and that the
Selective Service System then assigns such registranta tu local
boards for classification and further action. From the informa-
tlon now available it is not clear whether the reported acciviti
of the Movimiento de Rescate Constitucional Democratico are in
support of registration or actual enlistment.

5. As reflected by the information contained in Paragraph 2. a.
above, and in some of the reporte summarised in the attachment,
there is obviously misunderstanding within the Cuban community
concerning tha existing policy on Cuban snlistments in the U. S.

SuSE

Seon


SECRET
SENSITIVE

Army. Although it le understood that the program now being
considered for the future will not assure Cuban enli. that
they will not be sent outside the Unite , both MIRO and
Col. Johnson have understood that the existing agreement ia
that Cubans who have already enlisted or who eniist before

3G June 1962 will not be sent outside the United States. There
18 also some confusion about the language requirements for
Cuban ealli 8 under the present program, In order to deal
with these questions, our representatives tn Miami urgently
need clarification of the existing official policy on Cuban en-
Metmonts, both for thoee who have already enlisted and for
those who may callst before the new program la undertaken,

It would aleo be of great assistance if you could provide infor-
ination On the new proposed program, I will appreciate it if
you will furnish this office with the above information and with
aa Indication of what portions of it we may pase on to AURO for
hie guidance,

~ SIGNED

WILLIAM K, HARVEY

Attachment - Summary

DDjP/TFW/ Asst. Exec/JSDouglas:bh (19 June 1962)
Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1+ C/TEW _ ofa.

1 - TFW/Exec 2 w/att,
2+ TEW/PA/Prop_ w/att.

SENSITIVE
SEGHET

