# 104-10216-10167

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10216-10167

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ORE: NESTOR SANCHEZ L TEEX

UNIT s

WH/SA/SO/i*S

DATE 2

7147

• NO INDEX

11 JUINS 1964

O FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO " JHWAVE

FROM: DIRECTOR

cant, De /WH/SA3

MOs DDP, VI.

PIBIOAITAVE

INFO

DESES LIKE TYPIC YOBITE ALASH

BEF:

DIR 24886

B.

WAVE 7201

(IN 95445)

C.

WAVE 7359

(IN 97739)

D. PARI 3930 (IN 74775)

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

EREREI

1209

ROUTING

T4

12 Just:

.7472

Siriet

DEFERRED

OOUTINE

CITE DIR 2 7 8 3 5

1. LETTERS PARA 3 REF A RECEIVED FROM PARIS, UNFORTUNATELY IT •

APPEARS AMLASH/1 USED AMTRUNK/10'S SW SYSTEM FOR MESSAGES ONE AND

THO THEREFORE UNABLE DEVELOP. WILL ASK AMLASH/1 SEND MSGS ONE AND

TWO AGAIN. PLS ADVISE NUMBER AMTRUNR/10 SW SYSTEM.

• 2. FOLLOWING ENGLISH TRANSLATION SW LETTER TO AMLASH/1:

"RECEIVED MSG #3, DEVELOPED PERFECTLY. PLS SEND MSGS ONE AND THO

AGAIN. ALL LETTERS ARRIVED AT INDICATED ADDRESS. SUBJECT (UNSNAFU/9)

NOW KNOWS HE SHOULD PASS ALL LETTERS REGARDLESS MANNER RECEIVED.

CONCERNED WITH (UNSNAFU/9) AND HIS INDISCRETIONS. (AMWHIP/LALSO

SPOKE TO HIM ABOUT THIS MATTER. IN FUTURE LETTERS FROM AMWHIP /1)

AND SYLVIA (MUTUAL FRIEND OF AMWHIP/1, AMLASH/1, AND ERNESTINA) TO

ENE WILL CONTAIN SW. YOU SHOULD ALSO SEND SW MESSAGES IN LETTERS

TO THEM. AS YOUR SW SYSTEM AND THAT OF RAMON (AMTRUNK/10) ARE

COMPLETELY DIFFERENT USE ONLY SYSTEM NOW YOUR POSSESSION IN LETTERS

TO(UNSNAFU/9, AMWHIP/1), AND SYLVIA). IF IT BECOMES NECESSARY FOR

dÊLEASING OrFICER

COORDINATINE OFFICERS

CROUP I

escluded tran autoralle

SECREI

comperadice and

declassficate

AUTHERTICATING

OFFIGER

• REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

30-252239 la

---

## Page 2

4-00000

UNIT&

EXT : 7147

DATE 3_ 11 JUNE 1964

то 8

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFA

INFO s

і то

I NO INDEX

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE II

12-0

ROUTING

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

YOU TO COMUNICATE THROUGR RAMONAS SYSTEM, SEND THESE LE 1EE5

ONLY TO ADDRESS PROVIDED TO RAMON. (ALL REE , INCLUDED HERE). WE

SENT YOU A SECOND PACKAGE (ZORRO CACHE). RAMON WILL RECEIVE RE-

COVERY INSTRUCTIONS. ADVISE WHEN PACKAGE IN YOUR POSSESSION.

WHAT YOU REQUESTED VIA MEL MAGOM (AMLASH-2) (REF D) DOES NOT EXIST

AND IF IT DID THEY. DO NOI RECOMMEND IT. ONLY (AMWHIP-1) IS IN

OPFRATIONAL CONTACI WITH "EL MAGO", RE (EL MAGO) DOES NOT KNOW

AND. SHOULD NOT KNOW ABOUT YOUR RELATIONSHIP WITH US. SAME APPLIES :

OTHER INDIVIDUALS. ADVISE US WHAT NOT PUBLISHED CONCERNING PERSONALI-

TIES INVOLVED MARCOS RODRIGUEZ TRIAL ESPECIALLY REGARDING YOUR OWN

'PERSONAL SECURITY. GOOD LUCK. WRITE."

END OF MESSAGE

WH/SA/EOB_

WH/SA/MOB/FI_1. Mani

cecillatoe

BRUCE B.

CHEEVER

DC/WH/SA

MELLASING OFFICER

MATIME OFFICERS

SHOUP 1

Excluded from auto ratie

dorangratiar sod

SECRET

REPRODUL

N BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OF IS PROHIBITED.

A. MALONEY

C/SA/MOB

AUTHERTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

---

