# 104-10273-10317

## Page 1

1104-10273-10317)

T2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JÖHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

"" 18351

18833

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION /Circle il appropriate) 186 CHARAGTERSI

DAY

TORU

LETTER

MONTH YEAR

11 Jun 76

FROM/ORIGINATOR ISO CHARACTERSI

Jose

Sc See Ana Group-Brown

CLASS

AHERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS)

REFERRED OY (10 CHARACTERS)

TOIRECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)

c) Sec Ana Group

DDO?

DO FILE NUMBER 120 CHARACTERSI

S

SUBJECT IBO CHARACTERS!

Hemming, Gerald Patrick.

DAY MONTH

YEAR

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

Determinations:

A. Release in full text

B. Release in sanitized form

C. Deny in toto

D. Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DETER DEOSION TO 110 QURACTERS) COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

cuts

DATE

OF

REVIEW

E. Sustain initial denial in toto

F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

G. Release additional information

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMSIFPLE REVIEWING OFFICER

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (8O CHARACTERS)

FOlA

B1 B2 B3

BA B5 B6 B7C

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

E. 0. 12356

1. Classification

2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3. Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Infornation which would/could identify the

source

5. Information pertaining to a source

6.

Information pertaining

to intelligence methods

7.

Location

of CIA overseas installation

8. Location

of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9. Name

of CIA employee

10. File number

11. Pseudonym

12. Cryptonym

13. Internal organizational data

14. Name

of an FBI agent

15. FBI file number

16.

Privacy of other individual

17.

Does not pertain to reguest

19. Other (Specify in line 1l)

FOIA

(5) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(K) (1)

(j) (1)

(5) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(1) (1)

(j) (1)

(3) (2)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(7) (c) (j) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

REMARKS IF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVEI I40 CHARACTERS:

1

E 5:

REMARKS 1160 CHARACTERE

HSCA Rev at Ags 1977; Pawley, Seymour, Sturgis, Cobra VolII

Box * 5a; 4

;e..

14

---

## Page 2

13-000,00

• %;

11. June 1976

MEMORANDU FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

• HEMMING,

Gerald Patrick

SF#429 229

Oa 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMING

was referred to the writer, who is holding the HEMMING

contacted the writer,

advised that he

is the action officer for a cable from

the Guatemala Station

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

was unfamiliar with

the. case of

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

was requested to alert

to the below-mentioned cable and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report coming in from the Guatemala Station?

(IN 944357,

provided the writer with a copy of the cable

-1, dated & June 1976),

which is attached. In substance, the cable reflects that

circa 8 June 1976

a Guatenalan source, with the knowledge

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the Guatemala Station.

a written report,

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

1975; however,

one of the major conspirators,

Jorge Antonio

"Cokie" ZIMERI Safie left Guatemala

in August 1975 as a result

of an attack upon his,

ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since August 1975.

3.

According to the report, the National Liberation

Movement was involved with ZIMERI

in the assassination plot

ZIMERI in

turn was involved with two Americans,

brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. - The

HEMMING brothers

assisted ZIMERI in acquiring arms, among other things, which

were flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft.

The report also

claims. that ZIMERI has close relations with

police officials

in Miami and New Orleans.

18833

SOGRET

EZ. IMPDE!

• RY 063994

---

## Page 3

13-00000. "

NOTE: The (Guatemala Station also included

information the Chief of Station had received

from

on 8 June.

said that he

had

been providing information on ZINERI to the

Guatenalan government for the past six months of

50.

He claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service

in Miami.

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans

as about

six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

The Guatemalan

report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c.

Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

DoeS ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-

treatment by U. S.

authorities which

permit him to carry firearms

as weil as

to purchase arms and ammunition f

shipment to Guatemala?

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

6. Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

activity, and

d emproyment, ate is apparent that derald Patrick HERMING

is identical with the subject of Office of Security file

429 229, who has been described

as

six-foot five,

250 pounds,

who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and

who

as

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Miami, Florida.

SEGRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JMNAVE.

numerous occasions since at least the early 1960's

HEAMING

had clained Agency affiliation when in fact

there has beer.

The nost recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration STURGIS (SF#353 459),

Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony

long-time record of

Fran: FIORIN,' falsely claiming Agency affiliation.

of Watergate notoriety who also has a

the late 1950's HEMNING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming iisillusionnent with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Connuzist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this "brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HENMING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HENNING, you are referred to attachnents to instant

memorandum, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June

in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;

and an'extract from a book published in early 1976 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

The book Coup d'etat

in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John T.

Kennedy

is a diatribe

against the

and attempts to link the Agency

assassination of President KENNEDY.

One of the najor

links attempted by

the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jin"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is

interesting

that he did so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING and

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISN's investigation.

Jerry G. Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group

Atts

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

-PER

10161 COPIES

SECRET

SSUING

STAFF

...?!.

-LE .

VR

-- 4767

PAGE 8,4-04

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

IN 944357

"SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

i.:!

11. June 1976

MEMORANDUTI FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

JENNING.

87÷429 229

Gerald Patrick

On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational' Evaluation

Section for information concerning

Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

was referred to the writer, who is holding the HENNING

writer,

advised that he

is the action officer for a cable from

the Guatemala Station

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD Of Guatemala.

was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

was requested to alert

and JMNAVE

to the below-mentioned cable

and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report coming in from the Guatemala Station.

provided the writer with a copy of the cable

(IN 944357,

..i, dated 8 June 1976),

which is attached.. In substance, the

cable reflects that

circa 8 June 1976

a Guatenalan source, with the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the Guatemala Station

concerning a plot

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

report, and a detailed briefcording to the informa-

tion the plot was to have been carried

out on 15 September

1975; however

one of the major conspirators,

Jorge Antonio

"Cokie" ZIMERI

Safie left Guatemala

as a result

of an attack upon his, ZIMERI's, life.

ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since August

According to the report, the National Liberation

Movement was involved with ZIMERI

in the assassination plot

in turn was involved with two. Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. - The

HEMMING brothers

assisted ZIMERI in acquiring arms, among other things,

were flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft.

The report also

claims. that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials

in Miami

and New Orleans.

18833

SOCRET

IMPDET

°. 19065004 X

---

## Page 7

13-00000.'•;

NOTE: The Guatemala Station also included

information the Chief of Station) had received

from

on 8 June.

said that he

had seen providing information on ZINERI to the

Guatsnalan

government for the past six months or

50.

He claimed that two Americans were involved

with

ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service

in Miami.

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him

to Guatemala.

c.

Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d. DoeS ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-

tial treatment by U. S. authorities

which

permit him to carry firearms

as well as

to purchase arms and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

activity,

alleged emproyment, an is apparent that perada Patrick HEAMINC

is identical with the subject of. 'Office of Security file

429 229, who has been described as six-foot five,

250 pounds,

who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who as

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Miami, Florida.

SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000 •

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JAVE.

numerous occasions since at least the early 1960's

HENNING

had clained Agency affiliation when in fact there has beer

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),

10ng-time ecord Of falsey Crate no Agency artillat bas

notoriety who also has a

1950'5 HENNING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionnent with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Connuaist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this

assassination plot

involving HENMING, you are

referred to attachnents to

instant

memorandun, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT,

and an'extract from a book published in early 1976 written by

MIChael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

The book Coup d'etat

in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John F. Kennedy

is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts™

to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY.

One of the najor

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

shortly

thereafter dropped his interest in HAll, but it is

interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING and

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISCN's investigation.

JeTTy G. BrOWn

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group

Atts

SECRET

---

