104-10227-10 i
0 148) | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

re

19 Getcber 1961

MI.MORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT 1 Discussion with Mr, Barnes conceraing
A, Sabotage Operations
B,- Ralaticas with the CRC

PARTICIPANTS: Mosors. Barnoo, Eotortine, Zogby, Whodbos,
Colers! Johnson, Mr. Schreya? {during Wecusston

of om A only)

4. My. Sebreyer began the mecting by citing the various papers
provented to the Special Group stare July on the sabject of wabotags.
Ho else reierred to his actoo aad the Director's notes ea said mootings.
Ho potsted oat that, frem a legal otandpoiat, there was sorno euostion ©
aa to whather wo are authorized to engage in minor sabotage activiticn
witha! reference to the Special Group. B to clear that.. with regard E

- te major eabotage, the Special Group roust be consulted. The lack of

clarity ta conazetion with minoy sabesage results from the phraseclogy
tn those paregraphn prefacing the paragraphs concerned with sabotage
fa the Agency's papor eubmitted in July. In substanca tha. preface
states that organised futsraa} groaps will bo established; thou, subee-
quent paragraphs say minor sabotage will be planesd. From a legal
standpoint, seme question might accordingly arise oc to whether unl
lataral minor sabotage operations could be coadscted. Against this
contingoncy Tom Parrott specifically advised General Maxwoll Taylor
oa Saturday nocn of the two opsrations then running. -Gersral Taylor
offercd mo objection, My. Barnza naid thot he wonld tako this matter
up with the Directer and recommend that, just io keep the record
‘otraight, tho Director should meaiion 1% at the naxt mecting of the

Epocial Oreup. .

Casuona un dd4onday., Alter soto nd ezine asked

Colonel Johnson tf ho felt that Dr, MIRC reaily delloved that he bad
authoriaation (rom the Whita Ho and the Stats Department to take
over the collateral groupe ao well aa any iatersal groups, tocluding



thoir esbotage and reaistarce typo activities into Cuba. Col, Johnson
said that he felt that this was De. MIRC's belief, but MIRO realized
there might bs soma exceptions. In certain areas Colenel Johneon

felt that nome eupport could be given to specific CRC activities; for
exaroplo, propaganda activities like “Operacicn Grieta." Col, Johnson _
Continued that MUO seamed to affer an alternative to CONTK ACUERO
ae heed of thes CRO propegenda eection and, contrary to information.
from WAVE, Dy, MIRO did net appoar to be inoletent on the removal

of Paola as accountant,

3, Mr. Beterline brought ont tho fect that MIRO had beon

+ assured that ho has a $1, 009, 000 fund during the course of the next
year otth virtually no strings attached, and a license to come back and
nox for mora, Mr. Katesline felt, if tha Agoacy accepted the roaponat-
billty for pasoing these fasta to MIRO, that wo would be accepting aleo
tho responsibility for the posathle misuse of these funds, Mereover,
gives the fact that MIRO will be taking guidance from Goodein and
Hoxywitch, tho slemont of contzol shich might etherwico have been
exorcised through ooditiag of aceounts and then making recommerdstions
would be virtually noc-eristest. Mr, Barnes stated a oimilar point of
view, and remarked that this would have to be taken up at a highor
level at ones. He then reviewed tho developrasats af the last few months
which have made the Agency's position very calicate, Mr. Esteriine:
rerasked that the potential misuse by MIRO cf fucds could becorne a
coures of ernbarvoscn=st to the Adminiotration,

7 ro Mr. Barese then dtecussed, ths alternative channola for

taking up this mettor tn the absense of Mr. Bissell asd Mr. Wcodwerd.
Ro eald be porscaally felt tho Agaccy was virtually faced with o decision
heve ef ofiber insisting that it bo the chanazal to MIRO and at ite dis-
cretion tho channo! te ether Cedan groups, of wo might refuse the
reoponsitlity for any type operatians beyond straight FI-Cl. A
decision in this arse, he remarked, resto with the DCL Myr. Baraca
then sagpocted that, after touching bace with State, he, Ms. Esterliac,
Mr. Zogby, and perhaps Coleze] Johnoon sheald osdaavor to arrange.
an appeintinent with Mr. Goodwin tm the Whits House and at that meoting
olmply digewsa isformally the ontiro situation of the CRC,

R, E. WHEDBEE
Aging Cutot, WH/4
Distridetioa:
Orig: & 1 - C/WHD
1 crwHyse
1» C/WH/4/Pinno
