# 104-10529-10368

## Page 1

104-10529-10368°

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

T. WARD: " pa

UH/3, 20x114

5040

:10. 001 2883

LANCO CITY

DIRECTOR

"'QUASSIMEO MESSAG

SHORIT

•: 18-82

TRESS

Stutt:

routilie

59 ₴

INFO

l0rs; colla.

PRIORITY MEXI

ÜC IMPROVE®

BRY IT 6SS6 00N 104001-

CITE DIR

76598

ALTHOTO" LEONDY NTERESTING TARGET TE CAMIOS CARRANTiE

SUAJ OF REP THAT CONTACTS WITH THR SOVS SVEN 18 WEIR OUS ADEPICES:

FOULD NOT JEOPARDIZE BIS CHANCES TO OAT SECATTI CISARANCE

KORD TOR COUT POSITION:

I ART REQUIRED TO INPOST ORIVY OP

BERIN& IP CURETKONED BY ONTAR CITORI AGENCIES BE SUBJ AS: HART

OF NOBHAL SECURITY INVESTIGATION ME COULD WRLATE PACT TRAT, SUBY

CAR MISTING COVO AT UNA BERALY ATO GIVE TARA BOTTELTS OF BURIES

LOYALTY AND BE CONCUE US.

IS COULD ALSO GIYS BANE

THE DATA TO DOESCIER MITY NAILS BUR 1S MALTINO SON SAPLOREST

AT OUR OWN INITITIUS.

"VOLP OUR ASSISSURNT VAS FAVORABLE WE

CAN ONLY RECONNEND AND CANNOR DICTATE PERSONNEL AND BSCURITY

POLICIES OF OTRAR AGINCIION,

US DAY HOT BR ABIS, TO CORYCH

OTHER AGENCIES THAT SUBJ IS NOT UNRES SOY CONTROL. THIS

SHOULD AS POINTED OUT TO SERS AND TY A SOAKANTEE IS A CONDITION

BBGART

LAN 008/62608

---

## Page 2

UNIT.

EXT

:: DATE:

CLASSINEDA MESSAGE

8 B C

O NO, INDEX

O FILE IN OS FILE NO

IS ROUTING

5 .

16388

FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO":

TỐ :

PAOS: 840

INFO

CITE DIR

DEFEREETE CEN

ROUTINE.

76:590

од тіВ СР:

2а IN ABDITI

OVT BANIST

SET:

HAN HUT

WOULD.

20%

AL8O SVIN IF SUBJ

OULD

ACCEPT

RISE

PENANS TO BE

FICIALIST POLITICAL ACTION

LATIN ANTEICA. SENSIT

ONT IDENTIPILA HIE AB:

TEN IT WOULD AS ADVANTAG

SAVE A SOUCH DI DIRECT

VOSE CURSIO SITUATION TARL ME BROOLE

KUS IS ABLED TO ZAM

T. AS ALTHINATIVE,

DIVINAL THAT HAL

2BBCBRT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE LSTING OFFICI IS PROHIBITED.

: Сори Na

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

BBCRET

UNIT

EXT

DATE

TO

FROM: DiRECTOR

CONE

INFO

D INDEX

O MATES FILE NO.

• 82-83

ROUTINS

5

180ст 63 16.592

ROUTINE

, PAGE TURKE

INFO

Cili bIR

760598

SUGGEST TO LBONOV FOR LANGUANT EXCHANGE WITH AFOLOGIES THAT

SUBJ SCHOOL COMMITER

TS DO NOT ALLOW SUCH EXTRA ACTIVITIES?.

RECOGNIZE DIFFICULTIES THIS TYPE APPROACH AND WOULD REQUIRE

CARE A BRLIEVE SUBJ SHOULD BE ADVISED THAT FOR HIS OWN GOOD

I BREAT OFT CONTACT WITH LEONOV BUT ESPORT TO STATION ALI

ATTEMPTS AT CONTACT BY LEONOV.

BRE

NO HDOS TRACES SUBJ, PARKNTS, GRANDHOTIER

HIMA 623382

AND HAM 6929 CONTAIN DEROG ON MANUEL, CONZALEZ CASANOVA MANY

BICNITICANT RESULTS RECRIVED RUSODA TRACKS WILL BE POUCHRD

HERE IS CONTINUING LC IMPROVE: INTEREST IN FERRER

"IND OF MROSAGE

WHYCHTE

Req traces on Charles Wiil lam:JOHNSON, Jr. who walked

Into protoction office.le Ot said in contact DrO'ga

PAIRERSta aee advantage poss develop eubj accors

agent ga lant LIONOV.

CT/OPS/WH/Hüßkes: (1a drift)

SR/CI/R/Goldberg " (in drait)

SR/CK/A

SR/CI/1

-Juras

OWIN

SECRETA

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING

SITED

Chry dia

---

