# 104-10170-10169

## Page 1

14-00000-

1104-10170-10169

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

28 Auguet 1969

MOVORANDU FOR. Chies, CI/R&A

ANTENTION

• CAr. (Joan 101) 03

SUBJECT

EVANS, Medford Stanton

Attached 1s a sumary of Information on Subject fron

Os records as requested by you on 1 August 1969.

Paul F. Gaydor

Chief,

Security Research Starf/os

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reprodusa

SECRET

Ananas 1d

+8646821 7691440

W/BR

---

## Page 2

SECRET

28 August 1969

SUBJECT EVANS, Medford (Dr.)

1. A clippig of an article from the San Antonto, Texas LICHT

newspaper dated 30 June 1969 entitied Group Clalms Negro 1Q Lai"

reported that Subject wag one of the "endorsers" of the Racial

Studles Committee. He was identifled as a consultant to the

Citizens Council and former chief of tratning at the AEC. "He

was recently quoted as auggesting a CIA hand in the deaths of

Prestdent Kennedy, Sen. Robert Kennedy, and Dr. Martin Luther

K1ng.

A search of Os records revealed the following Information

on subject contained in reference files.

Subject was reported to be active in the Citizens Councilo

of Anerica, usually called the White Citizens.

and the John

Birch Society. A New York Times article for 4 Apr11 1969

entitled "Fund with Birch Society Ties Felped Otepke in

State Department Job Fight by Paying Legal Debts" reported

that Medford EVANS: sola that Mr. Otepka had taken a modest

part in two political seminare at a 1968 John Birch Soclety

summer rally held in Boston.

Subject was described as "book

review editor for the Birch Society magazine and managing

editor of the segregationist White Citizens Council's weekly.

Attached Is a blographic sketch of Subject which appeared

1n RUMAN EVENTS for 12 April 1969. Also, biographic data taken

from the 1966-69 "Who's Who in America" is set out below. Neither

source contain confirmation of the statement nich appeared in the

San Anton1o, Texas LIGHT newspaper that Subject had worked for

Evans, M(edford) Stanton, newspaper editor; b. Kingeville, Texas

20 July 1934; son of Medford Bryan and Alice Josephine (Stantoni).

Education:

B.A. Yale, 1955; student, New York University,

1955• Married Sue Ellen Moore Il Apr1l 1962. Asst. Faitor,

SECRETL

1818к6-1:1.903

---

## Page 3

SECRET

THE FREEMAN, 1955; editorial staff NATIONAL REVIEW, 1955-56,

contributing editor,

1960-s munging editor, WAy EVErs,

1956-59, trustee, 1960- Chief editorial viter INDLANAPOLIS

NEWS, 1959-60; editor, 1960-• Recipient Freeders Foundation

avards for editorial writter;

1959-60; award for outstanding

editortal pages NATIONAL READLINERS CLUB, 1960. Member of

Anerican society of leuspaper blitors, National Headliners Club,

Ind lanapol18 Charber of Converce, Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Delta Chi.

He le a Republican Methodist and belongs to the following

clubo, Capitol Mill (hashington); Sl1zabethan (Yale): Indianapolis

Prodd, Indionapolia Athletic; Yale of Indiana Author of

"Revolt on the Campus," 1961; "The Frings on Top, " 1962.

He residence address 10 6020 Winpenny Lane, Indianapolis

and his office address 1s 307 N. Pennsylvanla St., Indianapolie:

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

18 Apr11 1969

DORANDUM FOR: C/CI/BM

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

TERE

03

John Marshall, Nichols, M.D.

Memo For DD/iS fr. CI/R&A dta 10 Apr 69,

Subjects Garrison and the Kennedy Assasalnation

1, A search has been madeal records eveliable to un. Tere are

some tilogleal factors in the Subject'd record, which suggest the need

for valldation, and othere which seen to recommand lavestigation rhon

circumstances pernit. These mitters vere outlined orally to Mr. Fort. 20

on 17 April 1969, however, It Is best that they be set down here:

342 On the baste of chronology, observations are noted which leatin

hose foreten and foregn-educated physicians who should nor the subject,

and events vhich may portalas

a. 1938-1942, a report indieates he "flunked" out of Vest

Virginia University, whether or not he vas reinstated is not on

bis nadical recordo:

1912-1949, there is nothing on the record for the period.

When and where did he obtain his Mastere degree? In fact was ho

In one of the military forces, hospitalized, or what?

1950, received Fu.D. Prom Valversity of Morth Carolina,

Chapel H111, Porta Carolina.

Whs't do the blographic and academic

recorda show on bia at that time?

Again, what do

biograpble and amployment recorde there about

SECRET

21BR

---

## Page 5

SECRET

SUBJECT, John Maraball Nichols, M.D.

3. Modical education classmates and contemporartes 1953-195ks

B.:

One source of medical credentint lilorestion lodicates he

applied for medical approval in the U.Sd. over blo an algassur

as a graduate In 1954 fron the Ualversity of Idinburgh, Scotland.

mig rector britteel, rould be 111o81cal, because that school reguires

ats (6) yeare or

atudy before srantine eliber • Bochelor of Malleino?

on of surgery.

a pertod would bean be started schoal la Suinburgh

during 1948 and that la Inconslatent wich otber dare in the rererence.

However, 1f be Jolned the class In 1951, here tro three classesces

61954). One student who greduated one yees eariler (1953), and one

who graduated que year later (1955) currently recorded as belas in

the United States, and three others (1954) os record abroed:

(1) Clasenates' - 1954:

(a) MCCUE, Prencis B., N.D., T106 Park Avenue, Allen

Park, Michigan, 48101, In General Practico. Wes la las Arbor,

Michigen, o/a 13 September 1959: He 1o reportod to be a

Naturalized Citizen, who was bara Is Juse 1927, place not

recorded.

(b) MET, Monrietta P. A. Go, MD., Jefferson Medical

College Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa., 19107, in Anestbestology.

She la reported to have English clistenship with a Peraanent

Residont Visa. Born in July 1930, place not recorded.

(c) OLIVER, Donald Cross, N.D., Hatford City, Harth

Dakota, 58854, In General Practice. Be 18 reported to be

Eaglish citizen vith a Permanent Resident ViBe. Bara February

1930, place not recorded.

(a) CATHRO, David Metaves, M.D., UDIT CItIzeR, FebruAry

1968 1n Paris, Franco.

1n 100) co E, y 1a Marlo, We C11120, October 19614

London, HOTELS

3, Margarot C., UNIT CItizei, April 1001 1n

(2) One Year Barlier Graduate = 1953

ROSiti, Robert H., M.D., 319. layland Street, Providence,

RaJa, 08300, 1n General Surgery.

Ee 18 reported to be a Fativo

Born U. S. Citizen in 1923, place no: rocorded.

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SEGRET

SUBSCT: John Maraball Xichols, M.D.

(3) Cno Year Later Graduate - 1955

CONSTABLE, WilLIan Charleo, M.D., Untvereity O

Irginta Hospital, Charlottesvilio, Virglita 22901

In Therapeutle Radiology He 10 ported to be eaS

Engliah Citizen, bora 1 October 1929, place not recorded.

on the baete of Regletrablo Qualifications Granted by the Scottish

Contoint Boara in 1954. 1bla 1a possible, horever, there iaroo

for clarification. A conjecture might be, he van dole to coobine

credit for thre(3) years of tratning at the Unlversityo! Idtnburgh

with bia earlier academle trattg and experience in the U.S.A.o

to the satisfaction of the Conjolut Board, and thereby obtatn his

cortification, although be was not gradunted fron the University of

Ddleburgh. There vere no 1954 contemporarien under this category.

of possiblo relevancy are three astive-born Americans ho appear to

alalm 1952 qualifications under the same arrangements

(1) BERLON, A. Joseph, M.D., Whoeline, West Virginia,

Born February 1909.

(2) WRIKBERG, Martin Herbert, M.D., Trenton, New Jorsey,

Born September 1923.

(3) WICKER, Milton M., M.D., Hackendack, New Jersey,

Born Apr11 1921.

Il, as the reference and visa recordo indicate, he vas

with the Class of 1954 from the Unlversity of Ilverpool (wolch la

ta Liverpool and not london) the following probably would have the

best knowledge of him:

• (1) C2as8nate8 -- 1954

(a) SHELLEX, ThOmAs Frank, M.D., T66 INVing Avenue,

syracuse, New York 13210, 1a Internal Medietne. le

citizenship ls not on the record. He was born in November

1928, place not stated. He, too, belonga to the Endocrino

Socloty so does DI. Michols.

3

SECAST

---

## Page 7

SECRET

SUEDCT, John Marehel Michola, M.D.

(D) BOTHES, ErIC, M.D., COl Barry Bines Blyde

English Cittzenship and has a Peruanent Resident Vlee.

Born 13 October 1929, place bos recorded.

(e) ASTAVER, A. Dlana, M.D., In London September 1967

noT CIlzenship.

of posstole laterest are other gradusted from the Unlversity

of Liverpoal, vo vere grantod their degnses in: 1953 and 1955;

because they and only one year sheal as beated the subjects

1) PARTES, Gerald, MiD.: SaI E. Palace Avenue, Santa Fe

Ten Maxico ST50I, In Gonaral Practice. Class of 1953. Formery

Aprul gol, ta Denver,

colorado. Clairs Inglish Cltizenchip

with fernanent Resident Visa. Sun March 1922, place not recorded.

(2) ALRI, Narendra Nath, M.D., Toronto, Canada 1965-1966 at

least. Be is roportod to be a clilsen of Indle. Class of 1953.

(3) MUHLOUR, Gabriel Michel, M.D., at Medical College of

Arabemi, Bringham, Alabama, 3233, Practicing Gastrontero 05%.

Born June 1929, place not recorded. Has Lebanese Citizenship and

Permanent Desident Vise, Class: 1953.

record. Clalms UNIT Citizenship.

(5) SDISON, George M., M.D., 21 Laurel Road, Ken ork, lAT:

10956, in Psychlatry.

U. S. Rasire Born, September' 1926. Class

1955.

(7) XINER, Robert, M.D., Texas fesearch Institute of Mental

Sclences, Fouston, Texas TT2O5, In Psychlatry.

He was born in

July 1922 and there ls a suggestion in one record that he vas

born in CSR, but now is an Englisa Citisen ith & Permanent

Resident .V163.

SECRET

---

## Page 8

SUBBCT, John Marsball Nichole, M.D.

(8) BARRIS, Stanloy Ralph, M-D., Who vue 1a Failadelphle,

Pennsylvanta on 21 October 1963• He vas recorded co a

U.S 1. Citizen, but there lo no cheond of ble current

whereabouts.

(9) CURETON, Lavera Arvine, MiDo, at Veterans Mmintetration

HospItal, Indtanapolis, Indiana 16207, engesed in paychletty.

Bora 3 April 1930, place not on record. He claims Engltab

Cit1zenahip and has a Permnent Resident Visa. He vas 18

London on 27 September 1966.

4.

Subsequent to medical education exposures:

During ble short atay in New Haves, Connecticut 1954-1955,

he could have becons acqualated withr

Inatitute,..

July 1925 In U.SA. Claes Yale 1954.

(2) GRESSER, Ion, M.D., last reported at 16 Rue Valilant-

conturter, villejutt, Solne, Prance.

Born October 1928 1n

U.S.A.

Class Yale 1955. Ragaged In pathology.

b. It Dr. Nichola was at the kedical College of Virginie.

time it does not appear there vere anyrecorded foreign natlonels

who would have been taught by him. the following U.S. rative-Born

gradaste are reported to be overseas:

(2) DR HAVEN, Barbare Hoakin, M.D., Born August 1929, con

in Bilagpur, M.Po,

Indio, Class 1956.

(2) WAHPLER, Tred Me, M.Do, Bora 1 July 1932, Dou 1n

Naharashte, India. Class 1957.

(3) THRELKEID, W1ll1am Logan, M.D., Born October 1932,

now in the Republlc of the Conjo.

Class 1957.

SECRET

---

## Page 9

A GUA

SUBJECT, John Marshall Michole, N.D.

(5) WILLIAMS, Bowla Leon II, M.D., Bore 30 November 1933;

sor 1n Xapit Bararak, Malaysia.

Class 1960.

c. De. Alchola appeare to be nost laterested in The Endoerle

Sociot. To offico of that Soctoty to reported to be at 1200 Morth

Walkar Streot, Oklahoma City, Oclahoma. It was Orgenized in 3917

In Hey York an soclation for the Study of Intornal, Secrettons and.

the de to 401a 22 8t oca realer bo bate 12200 or

physicians In the U.8.A., It seeRA 129

currently are seabore of the Soclety.

Thirty alx of the members

Leo belong to one or sore other organizations of which lie la a

manber 8tx (6) of these are patbölogists and 4 of the 6 ar

qualttled recognlzed by the Pithology Speclalty Board:

(1) EVANS, Gerald T., M.D., at Untverelty of Minnesota

Hospitals, Minneapolla, Minnosote 55,55. He, too, accepts no

promotional mall.

Born 11, March 1900, Galt, Ontario, Canada:

Graduated from Nectil Medical School, Montreal, Canada 1932,

Now Professor Earitous of Pathology. U. S. Raturallzed

citizen.

(2) FLEISCHMANN, Helter, M.D., 1406 Iyarood Drive,

Sohnson City, Temesses, 37601.

Born December 1896, Vienna,

Austria, Graduated from the Univeralty of Vienna 1922.

Naturelized U. 8. Citizen.

(3) URTH, JRoob, M.D., 99 Port Washington Avenue,

York, M.Y. 10032. He also 18 & member of American Socloty

for Experimental Pathology. Born Septenber 1896 at Makale,

hungary. Graduste of Gerwan University at Prague 1921. Mou

Naturalized U, B, CItized.

(4) PERIMA?

Robert M., M.D.»

416 North Street, Sausalito,

callpornia 9l965. Born August 1914 In U.s.A.

Gradusted fron

tho Unlveralty of deneva, Sultzerland in 1942.

Graduated fron the Univereity

(6) NICHOLS, John Marshall, Molo

6

SEGRET

---

## Page 10

SECRET

SUBJECt: John Marshall Micbols, M.D.

d. He lo also a sember of the Amertean Socioty for Expertsentel

Patholoey

offices vera at the School of kedicine, University of

North Carolina, Chapel H11], North Carolina. The Society va

founded December 1913 and Incorporated In 1950. Active membera 679:

of tha 619 activo sembera, 140 are forelga-educated paysician

Seven (7) additional pance rolloy who have membersbips la conno

vita Dr. Nichola.

(1) ADERSOH, (11]1en 1. Douglas, M.D:, Jacksoa Mesortal

Hospital, Mand, Morida 33135. Born August 1910. U. S.

Naturalized Citizen. Educated In Canade.

(2) DUBII, Isadore N., M.D.) 3300 Henry Street, Philadelphla,

Pennsylvanla 19129. Born 13 July 1913. U. 8. Raturalized

Educated 1n Canada.

(3) RENHIRAR, Gordon Ross, M.D., Madical College of South

Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina 29403. Born Decerber 1919.

Educated In Canada. U. S: Naturalized CItizen.

(4) LARGE, Kurt, M.Do, Il S. 68th Street, New York, NoT, 10021.

Born October 1906..

U. 8. Naturalized Cltizen, Baucated In Gernany

(5) TEHR, Devid, M.D., 1 B. 105th Street, New York, N.Y.

10029. Born March 1910.

U.S. Naturalized Citizen. Educated In

Austrlo.

(6) POPPER, Fans, M.D., Sth Avenue and 100th Street,

New York, H. Yo 10029.

Born November 24, 1903.

U. S. faturalized

Citizen. Educated In' Austria:

(7) SCHID, Pads, M.D., Moffitt University California Hospitals,

San Francisco, California 94122. Born 2 May 1922. V. S. Naturalized

Citizen. Educated in Switzerland.

e. He 1s also a lember of the American College of Physicians, with

offices at 4200 Pine Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvarla. Total membership

approximately 11,000 of vhich 752 are foreign -educeted physicians.

Sixteen of the nembers have the same year of birth. Ienty-eight

members claim their degree year as Dr. Nichols - 1954.

SEORET

---

## Page 11

SURICT: John Marshall Michols, M.D.

f. to his current 21p Code Area, 66103, there are 100 foreign

duceted physielans and rourtcen(14) are also associated vith

Dr. Klebols; one le educated in Kerpt, but le a citisen of ISRAKL,

Vith Debange Viattor Visa, one educated La TAIWAN, but sitizen of

Cans; one educated in and a citizen of CPR; four from the Philippines.

ase toal, one Bogland, one Bungary now U,S. Asturalited, one row

Indogesia, one Indie, one Peru, and one Mexico:

hoferring to paragraphs 3 and 4, the following events seen

are occurred during the period.

April l1, 1951 ties bia ta with liverpool, Bogland.

November 15, 195k, while he was supposediy engaged in a

pathology Internship at the Grace-New Haven Hospital, New Haven,

Connecticut he was at least interested in going to the UX, Prance,

Germany, Belgium, and Sulsse. Very few laternes, unless Independently

relloto-do, can afford such travels.

c. November 22, 1955, he was narried to Norms Miry Hajok of

Czech parentage, who vas barn October 16, 1924.

do February-Narch 1956, he was Interested In travel to

Csechoslovakia and the UssR.

This vould have been during his tenure

st Medical College of Virginta, Richmond, Virginie.

He is one of the fey sedical men who have docurented their

destres to receive "To Promotional Mall".

f.

He 18 Iicensed to practice nedicine 1a West Virglala,

Arginia, Kansas, Florida, and New York. Each of these places should

be able to provide biographle and professional data.

He la reported to have published an article in the Journal

of the American Medical Association. A copy of the article is being

arefullylocated for forwarding to your office.

6. DI. Alchols 18 a maverick la the opinions of some qualtfied

Dedical observers.. He provides some reason to question the validity of

all the ractors (1942--todete) lendlay to his current status as & pathologist.

The Individuals who should bave the broadest knowledge of his attitude

and activities are probably identified under paragraphs lie and ta above.

8

SECTET

---

## Page 12

SECRET

SUBISCT: John Marshall Nichols, M.D.

7. He have refralned from contacting e man who eitber know

or can leara portinent detalle, pendins the receipt of instruction

fron your office.

8. He appreciate this opportunity to consider the case ilth you.

SWARO M. GUili, HaD.

Deputy Director of Nedical Service

Attachs (2)

Attachment I JAMA Article

Attachment

IT- Publications

9

SECRET

---

## Page 13

SECRET

ATTACHMANT I

JAMA

vot 201, NO 2

JULY 10, 1967

THE JOURNAL

of the

American Medical Association

AUGS O N51

con -

C5!

Violeres and Altret Merseror. Aroneton

turare, copr 90g

00r.08908

•cia dea 139ri Cetilu, Cillori due eludelenco se senoble

' 60.9.ad 0806-991r. 8 1987 Sy11.D-9:1911 800 p001e 16180).

---

## Page 14

LiS

Special Contrieution

171

President Kennedy's

Adrenals

fortini

Vladi the bare Corient hermes beld dific alice ne aure or

During his

nem dor. anel boriel dentirri nt. thie

runter

•118d°

unasirians do clins she allega

data'" This

is in

Firenh

of

••:(7011:

Pre-ident

nils

ont

with ches. This priter

: is

nel cindli

sor this otico, De tail of the finali

illiesses of ether presidents

mas.

that ia lewich of plisseian:

satiunt relationship

Kenneiss

lis, marle publie commone mithout cronsent.

rial eralton. Homerer. nome dd the heregring comiserations

Known Published Facts

algues-giron coll dho.a1:148.101e.e11

•÷-18285. Nicholoool al m 19915 se puserei dunderes the chinel.

e ser verre dois dere estressivo condenine arende, humbeestrel

sa tire Crennel d'1888-190 declina Cool o d000080es 1 6000 21.

AVA, Sul, 10. 1967 a Vol 201. Nu 2

Bemator Jorn

Kenan

Demirit of Measschuret

joned last nicht that he

ienter the Heinites tor

surgery here tiay

D'operation to clear up

injus. He cald h

Bernet

0.1

obir. 11. 1994

KENNEDY SURGERY TODAY

Bay

State

Senstor Wil B

Treated for Spine Infury

Benator

John X FoR

Kennedy

Democrat of Mensurtt

quy in the

street.

Lojurg In

Latind

L two by. a

saurgory. la 1865

büt

Lon his prost

j requiring nim

The new opfrallos

coned three

days tor &

it le belleved that Mr.

hosplialted

808

monttis and will bo able to. retur

to Washlagton como limo la Sed

гивту:

Ocrober 21. 1954

KENNEDY QUITS HOSPITAL

Massachusetts Senator Flies fo

•Florida: to Rocuperate

Senator

John

F.: Kenedo

Democrat

of.

Massachusells

walked nut

of the

¿sospilai

Special Surgery resserday

he.

his wife

and hu

Miard.

ir telerboro.

N. J.

, Airport by

vate plane for Miami

Beacil

:l Senaior will conrelesce thei

A honpiral bullerin aald:

"HIs

condition is fand and it is noped

that he urdl recurn to Washing

coni nl. lhe end of March."

Senater Kennedy underwent

o hospital da as talury

&t

hooptlal for an

lajury

LY

alcelven in. action in tha Nary

World War U. Ho wen? to For

У

Ida shortly before CArlinas and

reentenia the hospital on Fas, 10. 10

The next day a meral

pisto triat

was cald to do Noirg dia recor.

eTy WIs removed

February 28,1055

New York Times report of Prest

dent Kennedy's

surgery.(Copy

regheed 1954,1955 Dy lhe New York

Tentes Campany. Reprinted by per

mission.)

18

r.1.9?

---

## Page 15

CHINEUNG APS ADMINIS NICHOLS

Pers reparted slat creater lette D. Dominorls

tered the Negata for sieral use

chine one piter

Liger told

no had a polite remoral do dogs 19

Comment

minal. likeser. the autopsy protoct

Is silent on this point ashurll as on delab

sof los cortebral mlumn, and orm

ilene in there furts may le du.

16l.

ant.

intentional failre to weak

ro or thy supprescion of autopsy lnd

ing chinat reords he natives or led

lth. Thee conditions would not

the autopsy had len done in the june

linth currivl. In any citrumstance

osis of Addison's disease may he

il les continuel silence by the al

alicials of the ho pitäl. or otheri

The to spara

nation

thie

disconline of mentione

itia

mind undertunate aspere is concealment&

the dignosis.

Allisons disease, formerly fatal y

and tenn

HITS

inel

tles lister

his

usertend their poger with four races

if thrie.

This trifer.

cited los

Nicholas it ail is that at the late President mi bor

arceit their clinical cagne is el Molelison diverei

The dinosis

ut

ellions alisonio cooled hive.

len tirmls establi heel at autops and perhaps the

valed. To has no sigmata to f sirder. Patient

with Arelison's disease can nois le maintained us.

dor portant comerol, shorens diabetes still may dut

low an erratio. hazardons, and fulminaling cour

corn with the best of milical thorspy. The lar

that Premicent lemmerly was continuously engaged

in strenuous mental and phsical activity, toler

madl extensive surgic trauma. and became lathir a

as lour children all without decrease in life expectant&

is, is meteriorths:

Ruferences

Faced Aperto finitel de lie Ann Sure at

nels 1090001 19lie

eliterial remansio ase.

..1.9

0:910-080 014 calo.

8. Predes innel serous: alitonial. Pro Drud 185060-1:119 13199

.29p 1NdS

so Nicholes iN el ol: Managa

new Adrenocortial lasted

ens being torois. Peele dare 78:530-5821 Nors 11025

ATTAMANA

FINCASTONO, PHYSICIAN DE ITALIAN REN.

Friestons

11478-14339

phosician of che leation Riendscaner, desirilval

sephilis one cose dire disease its mine through the

kin

4881

Fit

7121

lace direce-lores, wins toorn in Vieronie.

eire. in die malive eirs: ophilis and luboreuderis were widespread and her dursurd

his insertion deo there disarm.

In didi, he published his gunm, Syphili, sire Merbees Callicus, with a revision

dive deirs liter. Mis De Cemenrone, sobieto isguniorend in Dirali is id more urintitie

droner on thad slives ind culareulonis. Niis iolin had is chanter on the emit.

rim•nt eof theo: d090-589a1 clive. l f'racostorius, the Pert of Sophilis, relitorial, w.1.88:8

1:7948-548 1N0901 MIMED

Erica-derr retiriel frause the artise practice of medicine shortly alter thil and

storeral his diero do the scaleria nuedice ioned latiny. He realiscurered sonne of the

Merle unal in adoler fieres, sorode of the nevermells of the planets, lurant interesterd

in dreams, droser le erneope of the retriction of light, ind nils the firse to never lo

the montipals of the.rth. astroke enders his life.

1e1dy in l9eão issural a lo lire stamp bearing his poreraie.-Mire, J.A., Merical

Pithfindees in l'ending Slams''

SAMA, JUB 1O 1957 a VOl 201. UMA

130

---

## Page 16

SECRET

PUB A CATIONS

Dr. Alchold has written the following publicatoes:

1. Unusual Adrenal Cortex, J. Sodoco, 26iss0-2, My 66

2. Effecti of Polyerene on Adrenal Cortes, lab, Imvest.,

153412-21, 7eb 66

3.

idrenal Cortex 1a: Tumors, and Arpertension, JAll,

194:893-8, 22: Mov 65

4.

Folyhydraninous In Anencephaly, JANA, 297:549-51,

15 Aug 6

S. Morotrast, JAMA, 198:792, 14 Mon 68

6.

Indiscriminate Use Of. Penicillin, Oral Surgery, 20:180-4,

Aug 65

7=.

8

11.

Brect Of Pulmonary. Hypertension of Arels and Kidneye

of. Dogs: Infected vith Heart Hore,

Lad.

Iavest.,

13:800-8, July 64

matus are on of paultary Clant, tou, 185:643-6,

'Adre

1 Weight Maintaining Corticothrosta in Cancer of Lia

JAMA,

185:696-8; 31 Ли. 6

A proton ta, drama our one clinica

sect of mp-DDD; JAMA,.

badening The Comnications of Potestisl Chron

Schizophrenics, Nurses Res.,

2:187-J, Sumer

SECRET

---

## Page 17

PLORET

10 April 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director, Oilice of Medical Services

SUBJECT

Cansteon and the ISennody Assasalnadon

ATTENTION

! Dr. John M. Nichole

1. Dr. John Marähall Nichols, a Univeralty of Kansas

pathologiet, tastilled at the Clay Shaw coneplracy trial that

"photographic evidenco of President Kennedy's assassination wao

"compatablo! with the thoory that the facal shot wan fired from the

front." In addidon. Dr. -Nichole has brought suit againes tho

United States Government for rolease of Information pertaining to

the dosassination of Preoldent Kennedy. Most of the information

Dr. Nichols destres released pertaine to the autopay of President

Kennedy. Pr. Nichole is belleved to be perparing a book regarding

tha asgasolnatton.

2. Dr. John M. Nichola was born 28 March 1921 at

Charleaton, West Virginia. He recelved an AB degree from Woot

VIrglala Unlverolty, Morgantown, West Virgials, In 1942, and

• PhD from the Univeralty of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North

Carolina. in 1950. From 1950 so 1951 he wns employed as a

Physlology Assiolant, Bowran Gray School of Medicino, Winston-

Salem, North Carolina, from 1951 to 1954 he Was employed as a

medical doctor, Univeretty of Liverpool, Royal Colloge of

Physicians and Surgeond, London, England. Dr. Nichols was

employed by the Department of Pathology, Medical College of

VIrginia, Richmond, Virginla, from May of 1955 through at least

January of 1947. Newupapor reports indicate that he lo currently

employed as an Assocate Profesdor of Pathology at the Unlvereity

of Kaneas Medical School, Kinneas City, Kansar, and that he resides

In tho Kanaas City suburb ul Praisle Village.

23897

3:0 •2d:s: *8

---

## Page 18

SECRET

3. Addlional checte Indicate that In 1254 Dr. Nichols

gave the followlag mallins address: Department of Pathology,

Yäle Unlverolty, Now Haves, Connectcut. In addition, tt

seema probable that Dr. Nichols attended the Second lotere

netonal Congregs of Endocrinology hold in London on 17-24 Auguet

1964.

4.:

We would apprectate any additional Information that

your office holde or may develop concernins Dr. Nichulo, In

particular, we aro later

rested in Informatton on Dr. Nichola'

standing among ble peero, day taformation on ble social or

profosstonal contacte, and any reflections of hle political viewe

or associadone.

Gohn H. For ] -03

CI/R&A

Dlatstbutton:

Ostg. and 1 - Deputy Director, OMS

:. = Garrisaa Mlo

1- R&A Chrono

SECRET

VBR

---

## Page 19

30140202400 tuna

AOVANCE COR

ESSAGE

TOTAL COPICS N

VAROUnTO ANOION IN

SECRET SENS

(When fillöd In) -

ECTIONOR THIS COM PROMICILO

синим то ты но-

DX RIVAL COST SECURA, C1S

858

SECRET I8ZIASZ MAR 69 CITE WWMLAYI 3224

DIRECTOR

16 Mas 69 IN 1 7 2 32

U

TYPIC ANWIDE

REFS ENMIAMI 3223(1N17231)

IDENTITY AS MR. LLOYD SO COBB

PORN 19 JULY 1904, NEW ORLEANS

LAWYER, PARTNER COOB AND WRIGHT,

NEW OALZANS

RESIDENCE

432S3,07 500 WOODBINE, METAIRIE, LOUISIANA

MR. COBB IS THE PRINCIPAL BACKER AND DEVLOPER

OF THE INTERNATIONAL TRADE MARI.

IDENTITY BE ME. PAUL A. FABRY

BORN IN HUNGARY 6? 19 JUNE 1919. •

MANAGING DIRECTOR INTERNATIONAL HOUSE,

NEW ORLEANS. RESIDENCE 1127 BOURBON

STREET, NEW ORLEANS.

SECRET Cost granted lovers Security Cleanal 3 Oct 53

for was in firinate attoresis penel for OSC. Principa

client 1666 x right is ielio Pitolerim Comp.

wim jenze siles or was president no no criten

for a coie see time vien fema

---

## Page 20

obb testified in shaw's behall It he an

then whe lady worstel during te

I rena

goid character, ets.

→ a the trime, sher was 1

---

## Page 21

CAu

7 c)

12/04 anal

LOVINCE COM

TOTAÏ: COPiES

SECRET Da

When Fairy in)

RY

RODUCTION OR THIS CON

How O Do

L Rio com

Le NO OTO

im alou, casa, Securt, CAS

859

SECRET 18214SZ MAR 69 CITE WMIANI 3223

DIRECTOF

16822 69 18 1 7231

TYPIC ANWIDE

REF: DIRECTOR 77481

REQUEST PRIORITY CLEARANCES TO CONTACT AND TALK WITH

IDENTITIES A AND 8 CONCERNING THEIR SUITABILITY AND

AVAILABILITY TO ACT AS SPONSORS FOR SELECTED AMVIDE BROADCASTS.

FOLLOWING BIO DATA OBTAINED FROY LOCAL WOBONE FIELD

OFFICE THROUGH THEIR REPRESENTATIVE IN NEW ORLEANS.

2. FILE: 19-126-51/10

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 22

i gaine

Fui do corres

1P018.

88:

WH. COG: PP

6820: 1157

21 MARCH 1969

PLAY DISNUCNATION

Остокк

O to moes.

s. Fort Wipe file.

1жко

2811000)

SECRET

MH/MIANI

CITE DIRECTORS 6 7 2 9

7

7

AWWIDE

REF:

PH/NIAMI 3224 (IY 17232)

1. NOBONE FORWARDED SUMMARY OF INFO ON FARRY TO ITS

MIANT FTELD OFFICK 19 MARCH. ON BASIS THAT INFO RECONSEND

FABRY VOT. BE CONTACTED.

2.. THERE IS NO DEROG INFO COBB: BUT SINCE HE RECENTLY

INVOLIED GARRISON PROSECUTION OF SHAW DO NOT BELIEVE HE SHOULD

RE USED. REASON IS GARRISON BRINGING NEW PROSECUTION AGAINST

SILAW AND THIS COULD INPLICATE COBB AND GIVE GARRISON HIS

OPPORTUSITY TO INVOLVE WOFIRY.

3.

FILE:: 19-126-61/3, 19-126-61/1 AND 201-010204.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/SEC: 11r. Bucc1 (draft)

OGC:

/CCS/PRG: Jr. sensteads (telecon

CI/Staff:

sri Rocca (telecon

Pull atrol

BROE

DAVID AN

PHILLIPS

C/WH/COG

CiNHD

•OOPOIMATIMO DARICE!

SECRET

Lunarte

REPRODUCTION EM OTHER THAN THE, ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBIIEO.

AUTMENTICATIMO

ORPICIA

сот на.

---

