104-10183-10428)

202:
[ 2 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

ry .o4e
ne

te a
aA

i
oft i

17 June 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting with AINILP/I in Now York 4 June 1965

1, Two meetings were held with AMIIIP/1 in New York on
4 gune 1965. g3Ths first was a.brief luncheon meeting from 1340-1445
. between A/1 afd(R. i. Webster)(known. to him as "Harry Wills"). The
vetond vas at the Hotel Roosevelt from 2030-2230 during which A/T
Sas introduced to. Mf. Harold Swenson (as "Mr. Safely") ny( Webster)

2, A/l had little news to report. He said he had not been

: abroad’ since his return from Europe in April, but that he plans to
jake another trip to Europe in July “for about 40 days". He had
made brief trips in May to Philadelphia {pysiness) and Washington

(to meet "Mr. Breitneim" ~ (John Sherwood)°5 He also planned to fly
to puerto Rico 5 June on business, returning to: New York about

to June. During the trip he was going to discuss the possibility of
orablishing a shop of his jewelry fim in San Juan, Me was asked if
he expected td see Manolo RAY there and said that he probably would,
since they were friends.

3. A/1 said he had not heard recently from AMLASH/1 or ‘AMLASIHI/3 ,
who is also now back in Cuba, He had received a Letter from AMLASH/2
yee Madrid dated Li May and passed it to the case officer: (See
attached translation.) He said he expected something (anti-Castro)
te nreak in Cuba by October 1965, but he did not appear to have any
firm basis for this date.

4. prior to his next trip to Europe 4/1 would like guidance on
two matters: z c

(a) What he should say to (UNSNAFU/19 when the latter raises
the question of the report given him in Paris in April
that ODYOKE might deal with anti-Castro elements if
they could get rid of Fidel.

(») Whether ‘we have any candidates for him to suggest to
(4719 to work for Wie at the Embassy.
3

5. The possibility of A/1 sending a representative to Cuba to
assess remaining loot (mainly antiques and pictures} on our behalf
ig pending. (His best candidate is his Geneva rep.

6. At the evening session Swenson had a general discussion with
A/1, stressing the necessity of obtaining more details on the Cubans
Mth whom he is involved and their activities, The atmosphere was
vitendily and A/T appeared to react well to S's approach and suggestions.
the groundyork was laid for follow-up conversations with A/L, at which
Te ig intended to acquire from him full biographic data preliminary to
A flutter, as well as the information referred to above.
ry lxfe~
Ne Dol €

gy

” SEGRET

Giev
