{lo4-10106-10217|__| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FE Spongaed stad Fatte Fury VOR pertains Beste, at oF Coren nm OAM om RL —
eee’ TH consuur rour tawres’ az stoning ans mist2umeNT— THIS INSTAUMED — 2UL0 BE USE parted
oH we ee ground Use Only
ae f (Xo Not Reproduce
, a MORTGAGE NOTE
i $167,429.88 New York, MARCH 2,1978 19

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, We, ss canapaticemnaeacanrrenea husband and

wife, residing in the City, County and State of New York,

24Y
| Promise to pay to { \
| ATLANTA, GEORGIA ( 30303) ~
I
f 24 as
or order, at the offices of a)

Atlanta, Georgia,

or at such other place as may be designated in writing by the holder of this note, the principal sum of
ONE HUNDRED SIXTY-SEVEN THOUSAND FOUR iUNDRED TWENTY NINE 88/100
($167,429.88) on demand. Bollaonax

. [XG RICEA BASSOEK ASPET LO DEAS SAS Tess MOA RKB eRBOE at ADA XX AAA X PLL AOA PAA

Se sendene sxcpent eacehDe XX KKAK HDA WAKA KAA KAKAKAKAKAKAK KAKA TI ARTE TAR KK,

IT IS HEREBY EXPRESSLY. AGREED, that the said principal sum secured by this note shall become due
at the option of the holder thereof on the happening of any default or eveat by which, under the terms of
the mortgage securing this note, said principal sum may or shall become due and payable; also, that all
of the covenants, conditions and agreements contained in said mortgage are hereby made part of this
4 instrument.

Presentment for payment, notice of dishonor, protest and notice of protest are hereby waived, a
‘his note is secured by a mortgage made by the maker to the payee of even date herewith, on property
situate in the Borough of Manhattan, City, County age State of New York,
and commonly known ascand by Street Number (163 East 71st, Street, !
New York, N.Y. ( 10021)

This note may not be changed or terminated orally.

i
| In the presence of: a



14-0000

» STATE OF NEW YORK, | Backgrounc! Use O1 nf
boast Do Not Reproduce
COUNTY OF NEW YORK J
On this 2nd day of “bIARCH
seventy-eight »hefure me per.
tome known to be the tl

instrument, and they acknowl Tite me that they exeented same,

STATE OF NEW? YORK,
COUNTY OF

On this” day of - in the year nineteen hundred and
» hefore me personally came
to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he resides at

that he is the . af

the corporation described in, and which executed the above instrument: that he knows the seal
of said corporation; that the seal affixed to said instrument is such corporate seal; that it was se
affixed by order of the Board of Directors of said corporation, and that he signed’

namic
thereto hy like order.
~~) hoe 12 g 1 H ne
3 i Po ee om A
! i s 5 <9
© i 4 oO ys
hal . [aa] | H = pe SPS -
= i Hog 2UA °° wat .
i | Olga | ZBak oR o£
ry wo fi 0) Besks LPS
8 8 <q iS o8 be = S
oo] 5 'o) ri BSEZ p i, 7
gf - x ~ ide By
@ - H oO Ps »
a eed < 3 | 2e8 | °
a £5) MISS PRISE Ss , Rw
2 &slOlac| Sisk a
£ ew dag
(4 Oo = ak ae sS
POY >= } ESS. sz
~~ i 2 Oe a ~™
__#F 28 a
‘ Tea 62
S 2
2 Fon wy .
a 4 £4 8 .
t STATE OF NEW YORK,
p SS.2 .
COUNTY OF .
On this day of » in the vear nineteen hundred and
before me personally came
to me known to be _ the individual described in and who executed the foregoing

instrument, and acknowledged to me that ke — executed the same.
