704-10300-10393| {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

31 May 1977
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security
FROM : John H. Waller
Inspector General
SUBJECT : Gary Mo—Lonngquist
REFERENCE :. Your 29 March 1977 memorandum; Subject: Allegations

Regarding Lee Harvey Oswald File

1. Pursuant to reference, representatives of this office
interviewed Mr. Connquist extensively on 30 and 31 March regarding
what he thought happened vis-a-vis the Oswald file. When theé
incident happened in approximately May -1975 Mr. <Lonnquist) was a
GS-4 file clerk, brand-new to the Agency and working in the Security
Records Division of OS. Further, during the time in question
Mr. tonnquis® was reading a popular book entitled “They Have Killed
the President" by Robert Sam Anson.

2. Mr. Connquist convinced us that he was confused and there is
no reason to believe that a name was erased from SANCA or that a file
was destroyed. It is quite possible that he became confused over the

, reference to one L. Oswald in a covert file on Raymond E. Wright.

eRe Mr. Wright was investigated by the Agency in 1955 and contained in
that file, as a part of a San Francisco Field Office investigation,
was a police report listing 66 persons-who on January 6, 1941 signed
a petition in Los Angeles protesting the prosecution of a left wing
labor leader. All 66 names, including L. Oswald were indexed. Since
Lee Harvey Oswald was 2 years old in 1941 they were obviously not one
and the same. However this may not have been apparent to a brand-new
GS-4 clerk. Attached hereto are copies of 3 separate statements
prepared by Mr. Lonnquist which further explain how his confusion may
have been caused.

3. .Representatives of this office have spoken to all partici-
pants in the 22 March farewell dinner in which Mr. (Lonnquist:made
the statements about the Oswald file. Finally, Mr. Lonnquist:was
convinced of the need in the future to report such concerns officially
rather than at a social gathering. The purpose of this memorandum is iz
to enable you to close your records on the matter and to advise that
no further action will be taken.

CS - e a
John H. Waller
Attachments:
a/s : £2 IMPDET
CL BY: 055636

OS 71826 /A



STATEMENT OF GARY, LONNQUISTS

First of all I can't sit here and relate exactly what happened.

Its been almost two years and the incident is very vague.

In my mind it appears a name was possibly deleted from SANCA.

There are a number of explanations as to why the name appears to -have
been deleted but actually wasn't. SANCA could have failed--it was failing
quite regularly at that time. I could have typed the name on SANCA
incorrectly--if LONNQUIST, GARY MICHEAL—is entered into SANCA, it would
show 'No Hits’. It would show "No Hits' because in the middle name the

E and A are transposed. Its also entirely possible that, as a new
employee at the time, I didn't completely understand the situation and
jumped to an erroneous conclusion.

‘
In SRD, from Mr. Tom Cole on down, they would not be party to

anything irregular. There's absolutely no way Mr. Cole would stand for
anything irregular.

1.

I believe there were three separate incidents:

A covert security file was returned inadvertently to SRD. The file
either made reference to Lee Harvey Oswald or was in one of his
AKA's. I don't remember. I say ‘returned inadvertently to SRD'
because the file was on a permanent ‘charge out’ to OS/SAG. I
checked with SAG and they wanted it back. I believe I checked
SANCA to ascertain the correct name for the ‘charge out slip' also.
The name on the file was, possibly, WRIGHT and the name on the
"charge out slip’ was L. OSWALD. (This is possible and probable
because if L. OSWALD is entered on SANCA, the file number on WRIGHT
will appear because an 'L. OSWALD' is referenced in WRIGHT's file.

A short time later Joyce (I don't recall her last name) from the
‘Freedom of Information' staff asked me to do a name check for her.

(I was sitting at SANCA so I offered to do the name check for her.)

The name check was on OSWALD and his AKA's. (I had just recently
finished reading a book entitled "They've Killed the President"-~

the names I checked on SANCA appeared in that book as AKA's for OSWALD.)

A short time later, and I don't recall why, I checked SANCA again
for that same file that referenced OSWALD. This time it wasn't
there. I checked it several times and asked the Chief/Indicies
about it. She said the name should be there. I asked Mr. John
‘BoTlinger if he could check the original FOIA case. He did (I was


13-00000

with him) and he explained why I was wrong. I didn't really under-
stand but accepted it as I was a new employee. In retrospect, I
can see there are any number of explanations for what happened but
as a new employee at. that time, I just didn't understand them.

eps
Mr. Tom SEE BY? shown me a Covert Security file that's relatively

small, does make reference to an OSWALD, and is not in OSWALD's name.

The name on the file is RAY EARL WRIGHT and the SFN is 116942. The name

"RAY EARL' means nothing to me but the last name, WRIGHT, seems to

ring a bell. This security file seems also to match the description of

the file I, at one time, couldn't locate; it's a Covert Subject file in

a name other than OSWALD's and does reference him. I-believe this is the

file I couldn't locate two years ago.

I have probably inconvienced quite a few people today as a result
of a misunderstood situation two years ago. At the time I did believe
something irregular had happened and the explanation I receivedgdidn't
completely satisfy me, This has bothered me for quite some tine now
and I'm finally relieved to get an explanation that clears my mind.

Lerche 32-19 I?
Date
