# 104-10130-10375

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10130-10375

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMATION

1. DATE OF INTERVIEW

2. PLACE

REPORT OF INTERVIEW

6/12/55

3.

Berkeley, Calif

PREVIOUS APPLICATION

4. INTERVIEWER

5. REFERRED BY

Yes

No

JFwinter

Busby/FR

6. NAME (Last name

first, in caps!

TARASOFF, Boris Dimitri

7. PERMANENT ADDRESS

16315 Bevil Way, San Leandro, Calif.

8. BUSINESS ADDRESS

TELEPHONE

BR 60718

TELEPHONE

9. TEMPORARY ADDRESS

TELEPHONE

IC. DATE

OF

BIRTH

12. CITIZENSHIP

12/2/08

u.s.

11. PLACE OF BIRTH

EKATERINOSAV, Russia

ACQUIRED BY:

1?.1

25.

Single

Married

J widowers

FOREIGN

RELATIVES, INCLUDING WIFE (REG. 10-91

None

→JOTHER (List Country,

Birth

Divorced

I Naturalization (Date'

124. NO. OF DEPEND. (Excluding wife,

16. EDUCATION

ISCHOOLS,

DEGREES, DATES, MAJORS, THESIS TITLE,

GRADE AVERAGE OR CLASS STANDING,

EXTRA-CURRICULAR

ACTIVITIES,

ETC.'

Russian University, New York, N.Y. 1921-26. General Course.

(03KX6XHANXAXA)SA 8XKAXK8XXXXCX20XS4184XCXKAXXXXXK3XAK8X3505X

17. MAJOR EMPLOYNENT HISTORY EMPLOYERS, POSITIONS, DUTIES, SALARIES, REASONS FOR LEAVING)

1/20 emer c ada to o 12101 , 0180, iding Maintenance man. 3265 no

3. MILITARY EXPERIENCE (BRANCH

ESERVE STATUS, CURRENT PROFICIENCY NOD STATISTS

TRAINING DUTIES, COMMAND RESPONSIBILITIES, RANK MELO.

INCLUDE ALSO DRAFT, ACTIVE MILITARY OR RETIRED STATUS.

USArmy. I/b. 2/41-11/45. Honorable Discharge. 20248288. Was Special Agt. 1h Germany

and was used as interpreter between US and Soviet forces for short white.

OT 1992 37-227

CONFIDENTIAL

14.18)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECURITY

"INFORMATION

APLE VeNOWLEDGE IAREAS, THE DE KNÜNLEDGE,

HOM ACQUIRES, FRE.T.

Ger.,

WW II

20. LANGUAGE FACILITY GIVE TESTS

WHEN

Languaqe

Native

Fluency

Russian

SKILL

WARRANTS AND

RATE BELOWI

Fluent

Adequate

Adequate

but

for

Foreign

Translator

for

Research

1,8, 7,4

Adequate

for

Travel

Limited

German

I,8,W,U

French

I, 8, 1, 4

21.

SALARY REQUESTED

23.

ACCEPTABLE

STATION

Washington, D.C:

Anywhere in U.S.

Overseas

res

ares

22.

POOL INTEREST

No

No

• No

Yes

PREFERENCE LIMITATIONS

24. HEALTH

Good

25.

26.

Acquired By

Study and home

Residence

Study

NO

FORMS GIVEN

ZIPHS

•S App.

_Med.

Sec.

Agree.

L/Allf Required)

EVALUATION AND RECOMMENDATION

MATURITY, MOTIVATION,

MOTIONAL STABILITY, QUALIFICATIONS FOR INTELLIGENCE WORK, CAREER PLANNING, OVER-ALL IMPRESSION, PERTINENT UN-

FAVORABLE FACTORSI

PROFESSIONAL

These's nothing outstanding about Tarasoft - just an average joe trying to make

a living and without the ambition, energy, perspicasty to make use of a saleable

articles knowledge of Russian. Physically he's sort of soft, tends to be over-

weight - he's about 5'8"tall, and about 190 in weight. His personality is or

the negative side, his manner dull.

Tarasoff was greatly interested in the possibility of working for the US Govern-

ment. He wants that security. And he has about reached the end of the line

salary wise as a maintenance man or building superintendent.

Tarasoff 18 will

Ing to work in D.C. but insists on a IS 7 because he has to support a wife and

two children. "He does not mind the sedentary aspects of Project Detail - I

dou othered beat get an hing that art edent th him the ke the

would be quite able to handle & job on Detail. He can translate - reads with

a great deal of ease. His PHS I notice Indicated he's interested only in o/8-

this 1s not what he told me; he 1s interested In US also but he will go ofs 11

I recommend IaradolS fOr a aS 7 on Project Datall,

27.

RECOMMENDED FOR

Busby/Project Deta1l

29. TESTS

28. SERIAL NUMBERS

30.

Signature of Interviewer

4/4855

Date

CONFIDENTIAL

---

