# 104-10272-10029

## Page 1

1104-10272-10029

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

13 January 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 13 January 1977

The Director was briefing the new Republican Senators on the Hill

and the DDCI was in Colorado.

Wells chaired the meeting.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Miller and Berend noted that Jack Anderson intends to do a story

alleging that CIA has thrown a number of roadblocks in the way of the

formation of the House Committee on Assassinations. A brief discussion

followed and the question of how to handle this vis-a-vis the press and

Spraque will be reviewed with the Director upon his return.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

19 January 1977

MEMORANDUM FÓR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 19 January 1977

brand the article as rubbish.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

$15°

WASHINGTON POST

.. 1977

R Jack Anderson and Les Whitten

Mystery Witness in JFK Inquiry

A mystery witness has sworn lo con-

• anti-Castro forces

might have re

how Kennedy would die. Then the rab

Tessional Investigators that a centra

crulted Oswald, a known, pro-Castro

ble rouser added knowingly that Ken-

intelligenco Agoncy agentyntroduced

activist lo xull Kennedy.

nedy "knows he is a marked man."

him to Lee Harvey Orwald In Dallas

The motive on this," states the me

Milteer later admitted to the FBI

hree months belore Oswald gunned

mo, "would of course be the expecta-

that he had been in Dallas In June,

lown President John F. Kennedy

tion that alter the President was

1983, but denled baring any knowt

The witness, whom we have agreed

'kllied, Oswaid would be caught or at

edge of the Kennedy assassination.

o ldentlly only as blr. & because of at

least his Identity ascertained; the law

However, the Informant told the FBI

empts of his Ille, Is the founder of s

enforcement authorttles and the pub.

that he asked Mllteer after the shoot.

Ic would then blame the assassination

Ing whother be had known about it in

on the Castro government; and the call

advanco of had merely been guessing

The group bold secret mestings at

for a forcelul overthrow would be irre.

"I don't' do any guesging," replied MIl

312 Hollandala in Dallas beloro the ag:

sistible"

veer.

But Hoover abruptly blocked this

sassinallon. Not long alter Kennedy. Une of inquiry by notlying the War.

But the most explostro development

was shot, a Dallas deputy sherill was

Is Mr. X's statement that he met Of

told by an laformant that Orwald had

Iren Commission on sept. 21, 1964, that

wald in the company of a Cla agent.

beon associating with some Cubans at

the FBI had localed and kientified

Congressional investigators questioned

"3128 Hariendale"

Odio's callers He named them as

the mystery witness closely on three

Loran Hall, Lawronce Howard and

Mr. X's dramallo lestimony casts • Willam Seymour, all ant-Cnstrolles

separato occasions. They linally com

now light on lhe story Sylria Odlo,.

cluded that "his credibility ts strength

daugbtor of a weally opponent of Cu-

Hoover even suggested that Odio could

ened by the detals be provides consist-

ban Premier Fidel Castro, lold to the

hare confused the names "Loran Hall"

ent wilh what he lold us belora. Signif-

FBL Two months before the Kennedy

and "Leon Oswald."

Icantly, he remains very strong on the

bullag, she relared, she was visiled in

Now the congressional Investigators

Oswald sighting"

her Dallas apartment by three men , hare uncovered endence loat all lares

The excounter octurred in a down

lenied railing

who Identifled themsalres as Iriends

the Odlo apartment

town Dallas bullding, where Mr. X had

of her father.

und that the FBI had obleined thel

an appointment with hia ClA contact.

donlals before Hooter urolo his letter

The agent was socompaniod by a man

One was introduced to her as "Leon

to lhe Warren Commiasion.

Oswald." When she sam the picture in

whom. Mr. I later reoognized as Ken-

The Inrestigators bare also obtained

nedy's flier.

tha nomspapers of the man who had the tape of a lascinating conversation,

"When he saw it was Oswald that

shot Kennedy, she fainted from shock.

Il was the same Orwald, she was cer.

predicting two weeks In adyance tha

Ailed Kenned," the Ivestigators re

Kennedy would be shot "from an off

ported in a contidentiad memo

tain, who had risited hor apartment.

Ice bullding with a high-powered it

nearly freaked out, but he nover said

• Congressional Investigators have

fle." The prediction was made by the

anything."

now learned that the late j. Edgar

lato Joseph Milans, a rightwing rab

The hivestigators trted lo pin down

•Hoover dellberalaly misled tho War-

bie rouser, who are sappened to bere

Mr. I on how he could de sure that

ren Commision about Odio's mystert

close consections

with anticastro.

man was Oswald. Mr. X replled, sc.

ous riaitori. She was such a persuasive

leaders.

witners that the commiarion staff was

earned "how so rotaln tho character

Is ol a porsori; he had trained himpell

Staff members even speculated, ic.

named Wille soonersett, who turned

the tape over to the FBI the sext day.

cording lo one Internal memo, that the

Milteer Is hoard on the tape describing

to do that And I1 & wasn't Orwald, 11

was someone who was essactly like On

wald, his arset dowble.

-

---

## Page 5

13-00000

9 February 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 9 February 1977

1.i

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Committee

Cary also noted that the Agency has provided the House Select

Assassinations a report on our holdings on the subject.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

TOP. SECRET SENSITIVE

11 February 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 11 February 1977

ADCI chaired the meeting.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

---

## Page 9

13-00000

WASHINGTON POST

11 Feb 77

Rep. Gonzalez Trying to

• By George Lardner Jr.

'Wnshingtost Post Stall Writer

Fire Sprague

House

Assassinations

. Commillee

Chairman. Henry B. Gonzalez (D.T'ex.)

yesterday abruptly ordered the dismis.

sal of chich counscl Richard A. Spra-

que, bul Sprague refused lo leave and

remained holed up in his offices on

Capital Hill.

In a lurry of lellers to Speaker

Thomas 1'. (Tip) O'Neill Jr. (D-Mass.)

and other key members of Congress,

Gonzalez, angrily accused Sprague

"divisive. and deceitful conduct" and

said the sputlering investigalion coull

not possibly succeed unless he were

(Sprague) can work for free. Ile is not

going lo work under the payroll. I

certified lo the clerk, lo remove his.

nanc."..

The confrontation tell ihe liorse in.

quiry inlo the murders

of President

Kennedy and Martin Luther King.r.

on shakier ground than ever. N'armed

by Sprague's ambilions

$6.5 million

hudget and questionable Investigative

lechniques he

had

minposed.

the

Ilouse

delnyed re-establishing

the

The, lalest brouhaha in the life of

commitlee until last week and then

the beleaguered commillce was trig.

die so only on a lemoorary basis, giv.

gored carlicr this weck when Gonzalet

ing the panel until March 31 In settle

macie an eifort lo economize.by calling'

down and come back for a permanent

for at least a temporary culback in

charter...

ils i3-membei staff.

In a. letter

lo

other

commillee

The

new chair.

man apparently

mambers. Gonzalez accused Spraguc

was schuffed, first at

" merling with Sprague in Gonzale:

¡ in effect of a rule or ruin noproach lo?

office Tuisdey morning and then by

irc"lnyestigallon and protested that

other mcmbers of the

commillee al

under.

the

present :.circumstances,

n secrel informal" meeling laler in

"there is no way that this commillee

the day.

can function effectively .or carry

out

Lils responsibilities to the House."

A Kcystone Kops [lavor was added

lo the dispute when Gonzalez ordered

Capilni

police lo make

surc Spra-

gue left his offices in the old FBI kien.

tification Building by 5 p.m., and then

had those orders

countermanded. ap.

parchly by Del. Waller 6. Fauntroy

(U.D.C.).

Mooni do minutes later. cridentl.

aller a rash

" piroc cal's lo meati.

¡eginnie 'al aboul the counts lo.

"he or? holiday

recess. Frunko!

handed Sarague a late: no sumpo:t

saring the cames o. a" members o!

Cri a 60720196.

Hi: 'palle! " said only the comnilt

tie miniuch authority, and direcied

Spagic ""n disregard N:. Gonzalez.

ode tarminaling your employment

ael his instructions that you vacate

the clilcean: the se'cat commitice by

5 19.10. n. this dalr. Thic entire commit..

1ee. 01a" from the chairman, so di.

re•l:!nu."

By then, Gonzalez was arcady in

tho sir, flying home: In San Anlonio.

Apprised of the committee members'

action when he arrived. Gonzalez

troll

United

Press

International:

"They're

nol the chairman.

Ile.

on a successful investigalion

„Nt. Sprague," Gonzalez declared.'"1

with hydent that we cannot do sol

"This commillec has been led Into: a

¡series of errors by'lls counsel: Ils work,

i hag: Deen

without organizalion: and

Zairectlon; its official reports and docust

ments have been of wholly: unaccept.

rable quality," the chairman's lelter con-

tinued, "These are mallers that must

be remedied if this investigation is to

progress."

Sprague had no comment except lo

(slate. through n' spokesman, shortly al.

Her 5 p.m., that he was staying on lie

Job because! "only. the commillee: has

the power" to fire him.

¿'According to several sources, Gol"

zalez had proposed at a secret comit;

lee miceling. Nonday thnt some stall:

ers be dismissed lemporarily becouse

the commillee's present funding: is

¡nuly $01,000 a month and lls payrolli

•anounls to $123.000 a month. A deci

son was posiponed lo Tuesday so that

'Sprague could be heard.. He opposed,

the move, pointing out that many slaff.:

ers had niready laken a volunlary 35%

per cent pay cut.

No. vole was laken but Itias clenfi

that Sprague had a majorly of the!

commitlec on his side.

---

## Page 10

13-00000

TOP. SECRET SENSITIVE

3 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 3 March 1977

Mr. Knoche was out of the city; Blake chaired the meeting.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

Alluding to the article in today's Washington Post (attached)

on the future of the House Assassinations Committee, Blake asked

about the status of the Committee and Miller opined that unless the

Speaker is able to cement something together soon,

the Committee may

..:

---

## Page 12

13-00000

Gonzalez Submits

Resignation From

JFK-King Panel

By George Lardner or.

Washington Post Slalf Willer

In an indignant letter lo the

Speaker of the House, Rep. Henry

B, Gonzalez (D-Tex.) submilled his

resignalion as chairman of the

House Assassinalions Commillee.

yesterday aller an acmitledly futile

effort lo lake charge of the inquiry.

• lic accused Ilouse leaders of failing

to back him up in his struggle with the

commillce's chief counscl, Richard 1.

Sprague, and said

that he saw

no.

alternative In quilting "under the cir-

cumstances thal now exisl"

Accusing Sprague once again of mis:

management, insubordination and dis-

lojally,

Cionzalez denounced him as

an unscrupulons individual, an un-

conscionable scoundrel." Spraguc, who

has thus far had the backing of the

rest of the 12-member committee, had

no comment.

Apparently

caught by

surprise,

House Majority Leader Jim Wright

(D-T'ex.) said he doubled the investiga.

lion would survive al all unless Gon-

zalc can be persuaded lo change his

mind.

RET. HENRY B. GONZALEZ

... harsh words for Sprague

The volalile Gonzalez phrased his

resignation Jeller in terms that ostchs-

ibly

made his departure immediale

and final bul, under a precedent es.

tablished just lo years ago, it is up

Lathe Mouse lo accepl or reject il.

Jr. (D-Mass.) said

schedule the issue for floor aclion

until he first had a chance lo speak

lo Gonzalez and try to dissuade him.

Gonzalez has been bedridden with fl

in his San Anlonio home for the past

12 days.

O'Neill refused lo speculale on what

the llouse might do il Gonzalc rc-

mains adamant, but not a lew mom.

bers seemed agreed that it could well

kill the enlire Investigation into the

nurders of President Kennedy am

he Rev. Marlin Luther King Jr.

Arcady reeling from the Impact of

carlier dispules

over the inquiry's

proposce cust and methods, culminal.

Ine in Gonzalez' allempls

Sprague,

the J2-member Assassina

ions commilles will so oul of bus

ness March 3l unless it can gel

new charler, and budget, from the

llouse.

"In vies of the low repule we have

In the minds of other members of the

House because of the unscemliness of

the

whale

that

might he

---

## Page 13

13-00000

elfort to lake charge of the inquiry.

• Ile accused Ilouse Icaders of lailing

lo back him up in his struggle with the

conmillee's chief counsel, Richard A.

Sprague,

and said

that he saw no

alternalive in quilling "under the cir-

cunistances thal now exisl."

Accusing Sprague once again of mis.

management, insubordination and dis-

lojally,

Gonzalez denounced him as

"all

unscrupulous

indivichtal, an 11n-

conscionable scoundrel." Sprague, who

has thus far had

the backing of the

rest of the 12-member commitlee, had

no comment.

Apparently

caught by

surprise,

Ilouse Majorily Leader Jim Wright

•(D-T'ex.) said he doubted the investiga-

tion would survive at all unless Gon.

zalez can be persuaded lo change his

mind.

The volatile Gonzalez phrased his

resignation lelter in terms that ostens-

ibly made his, departure

Immediale

and final bul, under a precedent es

tablished jusl two years ayo, it is up

"Othe Mouse lo accept or reject it.

Jr. (D.Mass.) said

• REI, HENRY B. GONZALEZ,

... harsh words for Sprigue

Gonzalez has been bedridden with flu

in his San Antonio home for the past

ready recling from the Impact

rlier dispules over the inquim

proposed cust and methods, culminat.

ing in Gonzalez' allempls

Sprague, •the 12-member Assassina-

.. tions Committee will go oul of busi

sess March 31 unless it can bel:

iew charler, and budget, from th

llousc.

"in view of the low repule we have

in the minds of other members of the

House because of the unseemliness of

the whole squabble, that might be

hard lo get,"

said Kep. John B. An-

derson (I-111.), one of the commillec's

four GOP members.

"The life of the

commillee still hangs by a slim.

thrend."

"unless they

thing sensational,"

almed he it rated

hat judgment yesterday. de

ome commitlee members had snid

he Kink business,

he was not aware of what that might

be.

Jel. Walter, E. Fauntroy (D-D.C.

ho has been heading a subcommille

hat would look into the King assas

sination, hinted of a possible publio

hearing lo

"locus on

hee investigation so tar" Due he de-

clined to predict any bombshells, and

other members said there was none

lo be produced.

Sce INQUIRE, A10, Col.'1

---

## Page 14

13-00000

Rep. Gonzalex Resigning

Assassination Panel Chair

INQUIRY; From A1:

leadership is unwilling lo offer me

¿The commillee leels there's a good.

support," Gonzalez

wrole O'Neill!

chance lo crack the King ease, bul,

"Yet, 'I cannot bring myself to sign

that's g long run," said Rep, Richard.

pay vouchers for an unscrupulous in.

sop Preyer (D-N.C.), the ranking

dividual, an unconscionable scoundrel,

Démocrat under Gonzalez. "Bul I

and no power on carth can compel me

don't know of any bombshells we're

lo do.50."

about to drop."'

Gonzalez aides said hé fell. House

The commillee was already pre-

leaders had expected him lo bend loo

pared to postpone the Investigalion

much in keeping Sprague'on the com-

into President Kennedy's assassina-

millee slaff. Majorily Leader Wright

tion, in anticipation of a niuch

• mer budget than the s65 miriatin

acknowlcdged to reporters later in the

day that he may have miscalculaled

ycar Sprague had proposedi'..

on that score, thinking that Gonzalez.

Appointed

charman

just

last

could be persunded. lo accept the pros-

month, Gonzaler, said he was quilling.

cculor "in a reduced role."

1 .

as boll chairman and as a menber of

the commitlee. He described the 1i1-

Asked last month by Speaker O'Neill

muiry as mired dosa in "an adminis.

lo mediale the dispute, Wright lold re-

Crative nightmare," and said he de-

porters he had gollen the approval of.

cided to fire Sprague only afler lind.

cight of the commillec's 12 members

ing "unjustifiable salaries. unjustified

lo a compromise he had proposed this

employees, and reckless, inexplicable

weck.

financial obligalions."

It: soemed

blain. that

Gonzalez

Wright relused lo discuss the de-

lails, but it was learned later that it

would insist on sprague's ouster if he

ins a seven-point suggestion involving.

lo be expecled. lo clange his: Sprague's' retention as. chief investl

mind. Alluring lo an elfort by'a com-

gator and the hiring of "a new person

miltee majority to secure paychecks

acceplable lo all the members" lo re

for Sprague and the rest of lhe com.

place Sprague as slaff arministrator.

millee's 73-member stall in Gonzalez'

All "final decisions on hiring and fir.

absence, the chairman prolested that

sonie of his colleagues "appear lo be,

•ing would repose

will the commillce

membership.."

interested in usurping even my minis.

•O'Neill said Ilouse leaders would

terial powers."

meet today with other members of the

"It seems clear now lhal the llouse'

commillee lo discuss the dispule:

1.:

---

## Page 15

13-00000

16 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 16 March 1977

---

## Page 16

13-00000

Cary noted that he had responded to Richard Sprague, Counsel

gated

to comply.

---

## Page 17

13-00000

•-=-----=---

TOP. SECRET SENSITIVE

17 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 17 March 1977

The Del was at his OEOß office,

Admiral Murphy was conducting

a staff meeting.

Mr. Knoche chaired the meeting.

---

## Page 18

13-00000

Cary described Richardson Pryor's (of the Kennedy Assassina-

tion Subcommittee) acceptance of our position regarding passing

information he requested. He agreed with our views and said that

the request may have been premature.

---

## Page 19

13-00000

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

18 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 18 March 1977

The DCI was at his OEOB office. Admiral Murphy was conducting

a staff meeting.

Mr. Knoche chaired the meeting.

---

## Page 20

13-00000

Cary said that the SSCI staff had declined a request from the

House Assassinations Committee for access to its files and that the

SSCI itself

subsequently upheld the staff's position.

л.:

---

## Page 21

13-00000

- .

TOP SECRET CUA:C1703

29 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 29 March 1977

Admiral Turner was on the Hill. Mr. Knoche chaired the meeting.

w."

---

## Page 22

13-00000

Lapham reported on a letter from the Department of Justice written

in response to a move we made six months ago to defer to the FBI to respond

to a request from the Dade County Florida sheriff for information related to

the Roselli murder. We understood that a Justice ruling prevented our

sharing information with Dade County. Without reference to its previous

ruling Justice now says it is up to CIA whether or not to share the informa-

tion. Lapham said he would have to study the documents involved before

recommending our next move. Miller noted that we had worked closely with

the SSCI in developing our original response.

---

## Page 23

13-00000

1----.

hirerartederdtertit ecarte.

-......i.OR

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

30 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 30 March 1977

Admiral Turner chaired the meeting.

Mr. Knoche was preparing

for budget hearings.

---

## Page 24

13-00000

Wells referred to a Spot Report dealing with the suicide of a Palm

Beach citizen who was involved with Lee Harvey Oswald. We have a file on

him and Wells believed that it was passed to the Warren Commission. He

said he cited the case so that Admiral Turner would not be surprised if

it were mentioned to him. Hetu said he had a call from a TV newsman in

Dallas last week seeking information on this case (see attached clipping).

---

## Page 25

13-00000

ARTICLE SIPPIARED

ON PAG.!

4-L

Figure in JFK Probe

Found Dead, a 'Suicide'

From News Services:

PALM BEACH, Fla. - A Russian-

bern petroleum

geologist and lan-

guage prolessor.

described as "inti-

malely involved" with Lee Harvey

Oswald and a "crucial. witness" in

the congressional investigation of the

Kennedy assassination,

was found

dead yesterday in an apparent sui-

cide.

Palm Beach Counly Sheriff Rich-

ard Wille identified

the victim as

George • de. Mohrenschildt,

professor of French at Dallas Bishop

College.

Wille said de Mohrenschildt, a

quest at the historic oceanfront man-

sion in suburban Manalapan, Fla., of

Mrs. Charles Tilton IlI, apparently:

placed the muzzle of a 20 gauge shot-

gun to his mouth and pulled the trigg

ECr.

The sheriff said de Mohrenschildt

And vanished from Dallas shortly

after a Dulch newspaper report

about three weeks ago claimed: he

har prior knowleuge of the.assassina-

lion.

De Mohnrenschildt was traced by

a Mouse Assassinations• Committee

investigator to the Florida address,

the sherill said, and he returned to

the Tilton home about 2:45 p.m. yes-

terday to learn that the investigator

believed to be Gaeton J. Fonzi, had

been trying to reach him.a:

THE DRAMATIC development

yesterday, logether with sudden sup-

port or a continued investigation by

Ur.. Martin. Luther King:Sr.,; may.

serve: to.win the.committee.anew

Icase on life. Under continuous: at-

lack, the assassinations panel will go

nut of business. at midnight. tonight

unless the füll. House votes an exten-

Informed: late: last:

night

the

death, Rep. Richardson! Preyer,.D-

N.C.,:a key member'

of the commit.

lee, said, "He was a crucial witness,

"lörus, based on the new Information

he had.' He was intimately

with Oswald.?. 1117g

involved

When:the Warren Commission is-

sued' its report in 1964,: concluding

that President Kennedy was killed by

Oswald acting alone, it said it had

conducted an extensive investigation

into de Mohrehschildt and: his wife,

Jeanne, because they had known the

Oswalds through mutual: Russian-

speaking friends" in the: Dallas-Fort

Worth area. The commission con-

WASHINGTON STAR (GREEN LINE)

30 MARCH 1977

George de Mohrenschllat, shown with his wile in an earlier phoio, l

'cluded that there: was no

evidencel The sherill said the call' to' the?

linking them to the tragic. event in

home was believed to. have been

Dallas. e and see

in his account quoung de Mohren.

placed from Miami by House investi

gator Fonzi.

schildt as saying he had prior knowl-

About an hour later, Wille said, de

edge of the Kennedy assassination,

Dutch journalist William, Oltmans re-

Mohrenschildt: apparently shol him-

self.: "We're 19 percent certain he

ported,

.?He : (des Mohrenschildt)

killed himself," the sheriff said.y

media meet i can in and:

Wille and Palm Beach State Ally:

media would react if i

Came

said I feel respons

ible for Oswald's

David Bludworth questioned wil;

nesses? about. the

shooting:

behavior?'.9

shortly before midnight. pt

"Among the witnesses gulzzed was

AFTER VANISILING from Dallas,

free lance writer Ed: Epstein,

who

De. Mohrenschildt showed up in Olt

mans" olfice -in Holland.

had told the West Palm. Beach Post.

Then he

Monday night that he had been inter-

disappeared again and was traced by

viewing de Mohirenschildt. in. connec-

government investigators from Brus.

¡tion with a book'he was doing about

Sheriff Wille said only a maid an

- the Tilton family chauffeu

were at

AFTER HIS questioning last night

• home ai the time, and

the

shooting

Epstein said,

'I don't. mean.to be

: went undiscovered until

body was

evasive but the police told me not to

found by de. Mohrensch

dt's daugh-

talk about de Mohrenschildt's death

ter in a second floor drawing room.

. to anybody.":

Both had been, guests

i home for about a week

the : Tilton

¡ The Tilton home remained sealed

2È2219645

folf by sheriff's deputies last night...d

---

## Page 26

13.00000

Accordng to the Warren Commis:

sion report, de Mohrenschildt was

born in the Ukraine in 1911 and fled

Russia in 1921 following the civil

disorders that broke out alter. the

: Bolshevik revolution.

He became an American citizen in

N 919.

having

carlier

received

graduale degree from the Viversily

of Texas in petroleum geology and

; pelroleum engineering.

In . 1960, the

report states, he

traveled for eight months through

Mexico and Panama over primitive

: jungle trails,. and by happenstance he

and his. wife were in Gualemala City

• government, the commission re

De Mohrenschildt death was tita

involving witnesses.or potential wit-

ness. before congressional panels

was murdered belore, and John.Ros-

• selli was killed: alter, testimony be-

fore the Senale Intelligence Commit-

i lee investigaling allegations that the

issassinalion.of Kennedy was in re

taliation

for : CIA

to.

assassinate Cuban

joined

2

1.

---

## Page 27

13-00000

TOP, SECRET SENSITIVE

6 April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 6 April 1977

Admiral Turner chaired the meeting.

---

## Page 28

13-00000

Hashingain Posal destints Remain i King Soote, Aud went oday's

note that the House Committee on Assassinations has, as a matter of

practice, elected to leak information that we are apt to be called

upon to clarify. Later in the meeting, Miller noted that Chairman

Stokes has indicated that he is prepared to receive a briefing from

us on procedures for the handling of sensitive material, security

clearances, etc.,

similar to those worked out with the

---

## Page 29

13-00000

WASHINGTON POST •Trinealay, Ap

1998

E11

Jack Anderson and Les Whitten

Questions Remain in King Probe

Nine years ago, the Kev. Martin

ery truck. The congressional Investiga-

lonship between Ray and Litton In-

Luther King Jr., spiritual leader of the

tors are trying lo lind out "whether

dustries."

civil rights, movement, was gunned

anyone alded Ray in his escape and,

• The late William Sartor, a Journal-

down in Memphis. An escaped convict,

whether tbis assistance

was con-

Ist, alleged that organized crime lig-

James Earl Ray, was nailed for the

nected" to the King assassinalion.

ures had accepted a $300,000 contract

murder.

Yet

nagging

suspicions

persisted

• The escapee.had Immediate access

on King's llle from a right-wing racist

that he may have been hired by oth-

to faise identities. He posed alternately

group. According lo Sartor, Hay got in

touch with these men in New Orleans.

ers. The public doubt finally forced a

as Eric Gait, Ramon George Sneyd

The committee Is seeking "all evidein-

Justice Department task force

Paul Bridgman and John Willard.

revlew the case. It has now concluded

"These allases correspond to the

lary material that might support of

relute Mr. Sartor's report.

that Ray

"was the assassin and that he

names of real men. all of whom lived

• A witness has told investigators

acted alone."

close to one another In suburban '1o-

that he overheard a telephone conver-

House Investigators, however, have

ronto," report the Investigators. "In ad-

sallon on the afternoon of the King as-

challenged the Justice Department's

dition, three out of the four bear phys-

fladings.

sassination. "Frank Liberto, a person

Ical resemblances to Ray." Galt "even

analysis, they have pointed out signifi-

had scars In the same location as did

with alleged organized crime connec-

cant Inconsistencies and omissions in

Ray; the forehead and right palm."

tions, said: Shoot the bastard. Do it

the task force report.

The House sleuths want to know

this afternoon. Shoot him, even Il you

They note that the task force had a

"whether Ray recelved any help in ob-

have to do ll on the balcony, just do

It.'"

"multitude of leads" to pursue yet in-

taining these allases."

• The committee has received "inde-

tervlewed only 30 people.

"Thirty In-

• For the next year, May "traveled

pendent corroboratlon" of a possible

terviews could hardly scratch the sur-

face," declares the analysis. "A detec-

across the United States, lived in more

Liberto link. A witness told of a Bir-

than a dozen citles and traveled in

mingham, Aia., gunshop owner who,

llve Investigaling a common street four foreign countrles...A conserva-

before the assassination, pointed lo a

crime may

very likely conduct more

Ulve estimate of his tolal expenses

rifle and said: "This is the gun that is

intervlews.

would be at least $7,000. Ray himself

going lo kill Martin Luther King."

Tue House investigators don't pre

estimates that he spent at least $9,500."

Later the witness saw the gunshop

lend that they have solved the case.

Those who did business with him re

owner "in the company of Ray and

But they have set forth their clues in a

call that "he often paid for Items with

Liberto." The secret report describes

fascinating

secret report, stamped

"Sensilive." Here are the highlights in

new $20 bills." The House Assassina-

Liberto as "a larget of the committee's

tions Committee "Intends to investi-

Iovestigalion."

chronological order:

gate the sources of Ray's funds In gen-

• Ray fled to Toronto after the assas-

• While Ray was serving time in the

eral and of those $20 bills in particu-

sination. He applied

for CanadJan

Missouri state penitentlary, he told cel-

lar."

birth certificates under the names of

Imates that he would kill King "If the

Paul Bridgman and Ramon George

price was right." Ray also was quoted.

• The committee bas received unver-

Sneyd. He finally obtained a birth cer-

Illed reports that. Ray was In louch

• as saying he intended lo seek out a

tificate and passport in Sneyd's name.

"businessmen's associatlon" which al-

with the Beverly Hills office of Litton

The House Investigators are checking

Industries in California. While he was'

legedly had offered $100,000 for King's

"the procedures used by Ray in secur;

posing as Eric Gait, be also listed as his

ing these documents." They want to

murder.

previous employer a Pascagoula, Miss.,

know whether he could have obtained

• On April 23, 1967, Ray escaped

shipbuilding company owned by Lit-

them "without the assistance of some

from the prison by hiding in a large

lon Industries. The investigators are

presently unidentificd person or per-

bread box, which was loaded on a bak-

checking "whether there is any rela-

sons."

CASEY

By Charles Rodrigues

---

## Page 30

13-00000

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

8 April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 8 April 1977

The Director was at his OEOB office. Mr. Knoche was at the

White House.

Admiral

Murphy was in his office.

Mr. Blake chaired

the meeting.

1;

---

## Page 31

13-00000

Waller referred to today's Jack Anderson column (attached)

observing that the flow of material from the House Assassination

Comnittee appeared to be continuing.' He said there was nothing

new in the article; it was rehash.

?.=

---

## Page 32

13-00000

Jack Anderson and Les Whitten

Washington Post 8 Apr 77

JFK Data Quashed, Memo Says

A confidential House memo accuses

the Havana underworld, controlled by

rector J. Edgar Hoover, who calegor.

the FBi and Cis of "a serious suppres-

mobster Santos Traficante, were used

cally dented any relationship between

sion of evidence which was vital to this

country's investigalion" of the 1003 as-

in the plot against the Cuban premier.

Oswald and the FBI. Reports the

The mobster who direcled the.attempt

memo: "The Warren Commission de-

sassination of President Kennedy.

on Castro's life, John Rosell, hinted

cided that rather than embarrass J.

A House Assassinations subcommit-

orivately that the same killers hac

Edgar Iloover and the FBI they would!

tee "has uncovered a good deal of in-

seen caught by Castro and had beer

not pursue the evidence."

formation which suggests that bee

turned against Kennedy. Interestingly

• A Dallas woman, named Sylvia

Harvey Oswald was associated

wilh

enough, a Cuban exile, according lo

Odio, reported that she had been vis !

one or both of these giganizalions,"

the memo, quoted Trafficante as say-

Iled by anti-Castro Cubans. They Intro

the memo says.

Ing

"that Kennedy was going to be

duced her to an American, whom she:

It charges bluntly "that both the CIA

later recognized as Oswald. The Cu-

and FBI Intentionally withheld rele-

• Roscili had aiso suggested that the

bans lold her that the American was

vant information from the Warren

mob had ordered Jack Ruby to kill Os-

trying to perguade antl-Castro groups'

Commission and In at least one in-

wald to prevent any disclosure of the

"to kill President Kennedy becnure of.

stance, provided the commission with

Trafficante connection. One of Ruby's

Kennedy's reaction to the Bay of Pigs,

information known to be false."

underworla associates, the memo re-

invasion." Not long afterward, Ken-

The memo accuses the FBI of with-

"indicates that in 1959 Jack

was shot. But the FBI mis-

holding 23 Oswald files from the com-

Ruby traveled to Cuba and visited

mission. The FBI "was in possession of

Santos Trafficante in jall." The same

represented the woman's story to the

Warren Commission, the memo alle

68 pre-assassination flles on Lee Har-

source also reported that "Ruby and

ges. This report "of what the bureau

vey Oswald," states the memo. "How.

Roseill had meetings in Miami several

knew lo be patently false," declares

• ever, of these files, only 40 were

months prior to the assassination.".

turned over to the commission,"

the memo, "requires further Investiga.

• A witness had told committee In-

The information that allegedly was

vestigators that Ruby Introduced her

withheld was contradictory. On one

lo Oswald at a Dallas nightclub two

• The memo cites photographe and

hand, the CIA suppressed facts sugg-

stories linking Oswald to members of a

weeks belore the assassination. She

esting that Cuba's Fidel Castro may

have retallated against President Ken-

"had been afraid to come forth with

paramultary, anti-castro unit known

her Information," according to the

as the "No Name Key Group." Some of

nedy after learning about the CIA's

memo, because another woman disap-

the photos show "CIA agents assigned

plot against his own lile. But on the

peared after she mentioned seeing Os-

to train the Cuban exiles and soldiers

other hand, the ClA allegedly covered

of forlune." Some members of the

wald at Ruby's nightclub. But the long-

up evidence linking Oswald lo CIA-

silent witness "is now willing lo les-

group were traced to Dallas shortly be-

sponsored, anti-Castro Cubans.

lore the Kennedy assassination.

The House memo draws no conclu.

• The Warren Commission met be-

Footnote: FBI Director Clarence M.

sion about the Kennedy killing. But it

hind closed doors on Jan. 27, 1964, 10

Kelley has told us that all 09 summa-

lays out the evidence that the commit-

discuss "evidence" that Oswald had

ries were provided to the commission.

tee has gathered thus far. Here are the

been a $200-a-month FBI Informant up

Kelley aiso said the bureau furnished

highlights:

to the time of the assassination. The

the commission with all pertinent in-

• The ClA did not disclose to the

evidence came from two "indepen-

formation about potential iniormants,

Warren Commission that it had been

dent" and "rellable" sources. The com-

including the Cuban Sylvia Odio. The

trying to knock off Fidel Castro at the

mission's general counsel, J. Lee Ran-

ClA bad not commented by the time

time Kennedy was shot. Killers from

kin, took this up with the late FBi di. we went to print.

---

## Page 33

13-00000

TOP. SECRET SENSITIVE

22 April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 22 April 1977

The Director was in his office working on the Wilson case and

other topics.

The DDCI was at Warrenton addressing a Finance Officers

Well's chaired the meeting.

vells noted the item contained in the National Enquirer (attached

In response to his query as to

task force to deal

with the Oswald question and OLC has the liaison

---

## Page 34

13-00000

responsibility with the House Assassination Committee.

Hetu noted

that just prior to last evening's ABC News program, he was called

upon to put down this allegation.

---

## Page 35

13-00000 L GUE APPEARED

PAGE

26 APRIL 1977

Oswald Could Not Have Killed JFI

...And Top-Secrer Goyi. Documents Proze Ascused Assassin Had Been on ClA Payro

New evidence uncovered by The ENQUIRER reveals that Lce Harvey Oswald could no

have killed President John F. Kennedy.

At the very moment JFK was shot, Oswald and a friend - George de Mohrenschildt - were standin

on a countown Dallas street waiching the motorcade pass, de Alohrenschildt told a hospitai roommate la:

December.

De Mohrenschildt sail Oswald ran from the scene and he never saw Oswaid again. He also said thi

Oswald was once offered money by a CIA agent to kill Kennedy — but rejected the offer.

De Mohrenschildt made these disclosures to roommate Clifford Wilson in Dallas - but before the House assassina

licns committee got a chance to hear

them, de Mohrenschildt was lound shot because he is still active in the ClA, citing him lie agent wond winci

De Kohrenschildt felt that the agent:

The D. QUIRER has also uncovered ! arranged Oswald's murder because he!

De Mohrenschildt revealed that j

another startling aspect of the Kennedy

feared Oswald might talk about the:

alter his last suicide attempt. the agr

assassination case.

JFk murder contract he'd been offered,;

callee him and said: "You almost

• Top secrei government documents -

Wilson told The ENQUIRER.

the job for us, but it looks like we

licol locked away until oniy days ago —

Wilson, who shared a room with de;

gonna have to do it ourselves," Wils

reveal that Lee Harvey Oswald worked!

Mohrenschildt at Parkland,

Mohrenschildt was a frightened and

"He said that next lime they wou

These documents, now in The EN-

deeply troubled man — fearing that he, i

do it right - that he was going lo i

QUIRER's possession, prove Oswald was

like Oswald, was going to be murdered.

"He was scared for his life. ile said

and that they would make

on the CIA's payroll three years before

look like suicide."

IFk's assassination - a fact that top

so a couple of times," said Wilson, mar-

De Mohienschidt's fears - and li

CiA officiais

ried and the father of tivo children.

have vigorously denied,

depression - scemed lo grost as li

cien under outh.

"Ic told me: 'Because I was a friend

days passed.

De Mohrenschildt's death came

of Oswald, and I know what I just got

On one occasion he broke down a:

March 29 in Manalapan, Fla.

through telling you, I'm going to wind

cried for days,

Wilson said.

coroner's inquest ruled it a suicide. Last

up dying. "

Finally, de Mohrenschildt confided

De Muhrenschildt said his fear had

ear de Nohrenschildt, a Dallas geolo I been triggered by the fact that the CIA

Wilson exactly why the Cla was ond i

wist, had tried to kill himself four times,

it had spent the last weeks of the

had begun harassing him in mid-10r6,

"Ile said to me: 'I'll tell you wl:

'ear in Dallas' Parkland Hospital.

Wilson said.

they're bugging me:.

At the hospital, de Muhrenschikit be-

"De Mohrenschildt said he was visiled

assassination

investigation

came friendly with

Wilson, a man-

and told he was

opened again, and they're afraid ti

val laborer . .

• and over a period

watched — by the agent who'd oftered

going to be

called back up on

11 days in December, de Mohrenschildt

money to Oswald," recalled the laborer.

thing — and this time I'll talk.'"

confided to lilson that Oswald could

"Alter that, he was bothered by the

Wilson said de Mohrenschildt was r

rot have assassinated JrK.

Ravate act kil Kenedy da neces

Chille said he couldn't go anywhere or

leased one day before he himself wen

do anything wilhout one of them follow-

Three months later de Mohrenschil!

and I were together at the!

was found dead in an upstairs bedroer:

lime,'" Wiison told The ENQUIRER in

•He said he couldn't even go home

it a close friend's home in Ajanalapan

an exclusive interview.

from the hospital for two days without

"De. Alonrenschildt said that at the:

them bugging him, calling him up and

"When I heard over the news that h.

time Kennedy was killed, he and Os-i

threatening him.

wald were both in downtown Dallas.

"De Mohrenschildt said he and his

was shot, it brought tears to my yes,

said Wilson, 17.

They had come there to see Kennedy,

wife couldn't take a walk without being

"Front what he told me, I know dam:

just like the other people.

well it wasn't suicide."

"He said that when the shots were

"He often told me: "They'll wind up

fired, Oswald ran and he

getting me.' Most of the time he men-l

The ENQUIRER taped Wilson's stor:

and took the lapes to Charles R..,

tim again. De

Mohrenschildt stayed

tiere and watched what was happen-

ded Silson: "De Mohrenschildt told

continue

ne lie and Oswald had been very good;

riends for à long time.

Miered money by_a_ CIA agent to

annedy = but that he had turned it

Wilson gave the agent's name to Thei

•NOLTRER, but it is being withhelad

---

## Page 36

13-00000

lecting Psychological Stress Evaluator.:

After an extensive ramination of, the

tapes, McQuiston 1

orted:

"At no point during the interview did

my

electronic equipment indicate

he,

was lying.

"My conclusion is that he is being!

truthful."

Dutch journalist Willem Oltmans, who

testified

before the House

assassina-

tions committee in February,

March

and April, confirmed that the geologist

had

been running

scared in

rccent

months.

And llie newsman,

a friend of de:

Mohrenschildt's since 1968, revealed to :

The ENQUIRER that de Mohrenschildt:

admitted he had met Jack Ruby — a lact

de Mohrenschildt had denied during tes-

timony before the Warren Commission in

1963.

CIA documents on both de Mohren-

schildt

and

Oswald

were

obtained

through the Freedom of Information Act

only last month from CIA headquarters

in Langley, Va., by Alan J. Weberman

and Robert Sibley - two top investiga

tors who have devoted years to probing

the JFK assassination.

These documents. reveal there is a

"20i" file on Oswald.

The very existence of this file - the

standard personnel file for paid

CIA

employees

- conclusively shows that

he worked for the agency, three CIA

veterans confirmed.

"I'he fact that Oswald had one (a 201

file) is absolutely fantastic!" said for-

mer CIA man Bradley E. Ayers, who

once trained anti-Castro Cubans.

Ayers said it. meant Oswald was

"either a contract agent, sorking for

them full time, or he was on soine kind

'o! assignment for the CIA."

Foriner CIA agent Patrick McGarvey

was equally

astounded

Oswald's 201 file.

when lold of

"You've got a bombshell, man! You've

¡got the

one that cracks the egg," Me-

Garvey told the eNQUIRER.

'If a guy

has a 201 file, that means he's a pro-

(assional staff employee. of the organiza-

tion."

Victor Marchetti, former executive as-

sistant to the deputy

director of the

Cl.l, agreed.

"Basically, if Oswald had a 201 file,

he was an agent," he said.

In an exclusive ENQUIRER interview,

investigator Weberman revealed how the

CIA had hidden the fact that Oswald

worked for the ayency:

"The CIA never told the Warren Com-

inission that a 201 file existed on Os-

wald.

"Instead they claimed their file was

a routine file on a suspected Communist

agent.

"This file offers conclusive proof that

Oswald was not just a

weak, pathetic

loner,' as the Warren Commission con-

cluded - but

CIA operative.", Was in actual fact a

The Commission, in fact, was never

told of Oswald's work with the agency.

CIA Director John McCone told the Dan-

Helms issied similar denials.

Investigators

Weberman and Sibley

also obtained CIA

cuments which

show that Oswald's ..lend, George de

Mohrenschildt, also had links with 'he

agency.

One

document reveals that after a

trip behind the Iron Curtain to Yugo-

slavia in 1957, de Mohrenschildt was

extensively debriefed by a CIA agent.

"It seems clear. to me that this nesy

evidence on Oswald

and de • Mohren-

schildt proves there's a conspiracy,"

said investigator Weherman.

"And I'm confident that in the nest:

lew months this whole thing will be :

blown wide open."

inatinued

---

## Page 37

13-00000

3 May 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 3 May 1977

Mr. Knoche advised that the Director was meeting with analysts prior

to his briefing of the President, a practice he plans to continue on a

• periodic basis.

2.:

---

## Page 38

13-00000

Miller noted that the staffers of Chairman Flynt's Committee on Ethics

will be visiting here for a review of guidelines and procedures. He also

noted that Chairman Richardson Preyer of the House Select Committee on Assassi-

nations was briefed

on ground rules and found our suggested procedures quite

satisfactory.

---

## Page 39

13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 5 May 1977

5 May 1977

---

## Page 40

13-00000

--Representative Devine, a member of the House Assassinations

Committee, was briefed and appears to be

supportive.

---

## Page 41

13-00000

NOP SECRET SENSITIE

-...

6 May 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 6 May 1977

The DCI was on the Hill. Mr. Knoche was out of town. John McMahon

was present vice Admiral Murphy. Mr. Blake chaired the meeting.

.-..-

3.:

---

## Page 42

13-00000

Waller referred to today's Jack Anderson column (attached) which claimed

that llouse Assassinations Committee "secret files" reveal some strange CIA

activities in Dallas on the eve of President Kennedy's assassination.

that Cary had called from the Hill saying that the DCI wanted more Information.

Waller said this was yet another example of what he believes are leaks from

the Assassinations Committee members or staff and he predicted more.

noted that he was expressing his "gut feeling" and that it was difficult to

determine where Anderson got his information because there is FOIN, Warren

Commission, and other material in the public domain.

White said Anderson's

column takes pieces and weaves them into a

"non-story." White reported that

during Lyle Miller's meeting with Representative Preyer, who will be concen-

trating on the Kennedy assassination, they discussed leaks.

Preyer expressed

concern that more exposures might affect the Committee's future, and it would

appear that we should get back to him citing the Anderson column.

---

## Page 43

13-00000

тоо.

.11

WASHINGTON POST

Jack Anderson and Les Whitten

Odd CIA Activity in Dallas in 1963

The secret files of the House Assas

ceived from his CIA contact after Ken-

had been a mix-up but never cleared

sinations Committee contain reports of

nedy was killed.

the matter 1ip."'

strange ClA activitles in Dallas on tbe

The CLA man, Morris Bishop, asker

A CIA witness has told committee in-

ere of the John F. Kennedy assassina-

Veciana to contact his cousin, Buil-

vestigalors, neanwbile, that the CIA's

tion.

lamo Rulez, who worked for the Cuban

monitoring camera happened to break

Credible witnesses have confirmed

embassy In Mexico City. Relates a con-

down on the day that Oswaid allegedly

our past reports that lhe accused assas

fidential report: "Veciana was to reiny

visited the Soviet Embassy. But the

sin. Lee Harvey Oswald, was in louch

Bishop's offer to pay Rujez and his

CIA Lap on the Snviet Embassy's phone

with anti-Castro Cubans in Dallas. One

wife to say that they had met with Os.

produced an alleged telephone call

cortidential report states that "in 1963,

wald in Mexico City."

from someone who identlied himself

Oswald was seen leaving the Dallas of-

This not only would have placed Os

as "Lee Henry Oswald."

lice of Alpha 68." This was a Cuban

wald out of Dallas but would have

The CIA witness claimed that the ac.

commando group trained by the ChA.

thrown suspicion on the Castro gov-

tual voice recording of the telephong

• Cuban CIA operative, Antonio Ve-

ernment. The ruse was later called off.

conversation "was destroyed In rou-

clana, aiso told investigators that he

Instead, the ClA cited secret tapes and

line destruction procedures approxi.

had been summoned to Dallas in Au-

chologranhs as eviuence that Oswali

gus: 1963, by his CIA contact-a myste

mately

one week aller it was re

nad been in touch with both the cuoan

ceived." Yet more than seven weeks

ricus man who went by the name of

and Soviel embassles in Mexico City.

later, the FBI claimerl lo have heard

Morris Bishop. States a confidential

summary: "When (Veciana) arrived,

The CIA kept tapes of all phone calis

the telephone conversation that the

ClA said had been destroyed. 'Sho

bishop was accompanied by another

going in and out of the two embassies.

FBl's judgment was that the voice slid

man, Lace Harvey Oswald."

Photographs were also laken of every-

. nother witness who impressed the

one entering and leaving these embas

not belong to Oswald.

iorestigators, Sylvia Odio, loid lbem

' sies. On Oct. 1, 1963, the CJA notified

Wrote the late FBI director J. Delgar

that two anti-Castro Cubans had Intro

olher U.S. embassies that "an Ameri

Hoover on Nov. 23, 1063: "The Central

can male, who klenlified himself as

Intelligence Agency advised that on

duced her to an American by tbe name

ni Lcon Oswald. She was told that Og.

Lee Oswald, contacted the Soviet Em-

Oct. 1, 1963, an extremely sensitive

source had reported that an Indlvidual

bassy in Mexico City."

wald was trying "to convince anti-

Indentified himsell as Lee Oswald,

Castro Cuban groups.. .lo kill Prest

Oswald was described in the cable as

who contacted the Soviet Embassy In

dent Kennedy.'

" After the assassina-

"approximately 35 years old, with an

MexIco Cily Inquiring as to any messa-

!lon, she recognized this American as

athletic build, about six leet tail, with

Lce Harvey Oswald.

a receding hairline." The commiltee

ges..

"Speclal agents of tbls bureau, who

The House investigators don't really

files note that this "In no way physt

have conversed with Oswald in Dallas.

believe that the ClA had any part In

cally resembles the Lee Harvey Os

rex., have observed photographs of

• Ibe murder of President Kennedy. wald accused of assassinating Prest-

the Individual referred to above and

dore likely, they suspect the cia mas

dent Kennedy."

have listened to a recording ol tuis

save tried to cover un some embar.

The CIA sought photographs from

volce. These speclal agents are of the

rassing contacts with Oswald in Dallas.

the navy to compare with its pho

opinion that the above-referred-to in-

In any case, the CIA look pains to

tographs ol Oswald at the Soviet cm-

dividual was not Lee Harvey Oswald"

give the impression that Oswald was in

bassy. Declares a committee report:

The house investignlorg are begin-

Mexico City at tbe time that witnesse

"These photographs, though obviously

ning to wonder whelber the cla con-

claimed be was dealing with the Cla-

not of the correct Lee lirvey Oswald,

cocted the whole Oswald adventure In

guided Cubans In Dallas. Veciana, lor

became the Warren Commission's ex-

Mexico City in an attempt to conceal

exainple, loid of a strange call he re-

albit 237. The CIA admitter that there

his real activities in Dallas.

---

## Page 44

13-00000

--

TOP SECRET SENSITI/E

27 MAY 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes, 27 May 1977

he vel was being interviewed by Dan Rather of CBS: John McMahor

epresented Admiral murphy.

Mr. Knoche chaired the meeting.

1.:

---

## Page 45

13-00000

Miller said the first session with Chairman Stokes of the House

Assassinations Committee had gone well and promised to be a cooperative

relationship.

We received the files of 19 Committee employees for

additional

security review.

---

## Page 46

13-00000

TOP, SECRET SENSITIVE

3 June 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 3 June 1977

Admiral Turner was at his OEOB office. Mr. Knoche chaired the

meeting.

---

## Page 47

13-00000

Miller advised that the House Assassinations Committee Staff has

received its first staff clearances and went on to note that they are

moving at a slow and deliberate pace and have asked that substantive

relationships with it be held in abeyance until a counsel is named.

---

## Page 48

13-00000

19 July 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 19 July 1971

• The Director was at his IC office. Mr. Blake chaired the meeting.

---

## Page 49

13-00000

Hetu advised that the CIA memorandum alluded to in today's Jack Anderson

column in the Washington Post (attached) was provided by the DDO and should

put this old allegation to rest re an alleged connection with Oswald via

?.:

---

## Page 50

13-00000

Bir

WASHINGTON POST

Jack Anderson and Les Whitten

Behind the Bureaucratic Detente

The lop brass of the Justice Depart.

have provided bilingual drivers and commission's decision poins up the

Inent's Antitrust Division and the In-

food with a Spanish flavor. Yel ICC de-

impossible burden placed on new ap

Lerstate Commerce Commission not to-

nicd the litlle.company permission lo. plicants lor molor carrier opcrating

gether in the back rooms the other day.

run only two or three roundtrips a

authorily by the ICC, even when the

lo discuss their mutual animosities. Dv-

weck.

The ICC ruling, Incredibly..

proposed service is highly specialized

cryone shook hands and, immediately

claimed this limited service might

and the applicant is very small."

alierward, the antitrust officlals began

harm the busing giants, Greyhound

The only trouble with the press re-

sulling their punches to spare the ICC

and Trailways.

lease was that the ICC ruling was not

The Antritrust Division, which is

challenged as advertised and the deci-

Hiere are the fascinating events that

supposed to encourage competition,

sion to drop the challenge was made

lee lo the detente between the two bu.

objected to the ridiculous ruling. One

by Joe Sims.

.".. .

reaucratic baronies.

luming antitrust official called it "so

CIA Memo-The Central Intelli-

The ICC's reluctant regulators had

outrageous as to boggle the mind." It'gence Agency had no comment last

been fuming over some slinging crili-

May when we quoled from Ilouse in-

cism from the Justice Department's

Express coulu have diverled enough

vestigative files that the CIA was in

from Greyhound or Trail-

contact with Lee Harvey Oswald in

uncharitably had blasted the ICC for

Dallas on the éve of the John F. Ken-

several anti-consumer dccisions..

‹The Antitrust Division, tberefore,

This stirred the ICC's new boss, 1.

decided to challenge the ICC decision, :

The files describer an interview

Daniel O'Neal, to seek a peace confer-

and another sharp statement was star-

with a Cuban CIA operative, named.

ence with the Justice Department's

ted brough the bureaucratic machin. • Antonio Veciana. He told House In-;

acling antitrust chiel, John Shene-

ery. But then the trustbusters, basking

vestigators that he had seen Oswald in :

field. They sat down together bebind

¡in the warm glow of their meeting

the company of a CIA agent who went

closed doors, each allended by aides.

with O'Neal, changed their. minds

by the name of Morris Bishop.

An O'Neal alde asked the antitrust

about lue Latin Express casc.

The CIA, though maintaining offl.

officials, please, lo stop issuing "cheap-

A spokesman acknowledged, quite

cial silence, reacled to our story. In an

shot press releases" against the ICC.

that the antitrust chiefs

Internal memo. We have oblained a

O'Neal put it more delicalely: with ap

didn't want to atlack the ICC so soon

copy of the memo which, in fairness,

parcnt sincerily, he oflered to incorpo-

after the truce with O'Neal. So the

we arc now pleased lo publish.

rate more antitrust philosophy into

spirit of dclente prevailed.

: This memo, writen nine days alter

ICC dccisions.

Unfortunalely for O'Neal's sensibili-

the column appeared, is addressed lo:

By all accounts, the trustbusters

ties, however, the lop trustbusters for-

the CIA's "Depuly Director for Opera-

were so overcome by O'Neal's coopera-

•got to tell the press oflice, about their

lions." Il stales: "The Jack Anderson

tive allitude that they rushed out and

change of heart. The unwilling press

coluinn of 6 May 1977 alluded to 'the

reversed an carlier decision to chal-

office, therefore, issued another blis-.

CIA man, Morris Bishop,' In Dallas...

lenge another ICC ruling.

tering reicase.

This was a ruling to deny a small bus

the second time in two

,The CIA did not have contact in Dallas

with Lee Harvey Oswald....

company; Latin Express Service, the

months," declared the embarrassing

; "We have run exhaustive traces to.

right to provide limited service be.

"the Department of Justice

idenlity Morris Bishop wilhout suc-:

(ween Miami, Fla., and Union Cily, N.J..

has challenged an ICC decision deny.

cess.. The name Morris Bishop has

The company wanted to serve Spanish-

ing a small bus company authority lo

never been used as a registered alias.

penking ravelers who bave dilficully provide new Intercily service.'

on Greyhound and Trailways buses.

The relcase quoics the anlilrust

Latin Express, for example, would, chief, Joe Sims, as proclaiming: "The

it one ayer be amply by the:

1.:

---

## Page 51

13-00000

20 July 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting Minutes of 20 July 1977

---

## Page 52

13-00000

Cary briefly noted that the Director will be meeting with Representative

Stokes of the House Select Committee on Assassinations tomorrow; called attention

to HSCI Chairman Boland's letter which requested security clearances for a member

of his staff and advised that he plans to provide same subject to the individual's

eventual appointment to the staff.

---

## Page 53

13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 4 August 1977

5 August 1977

---

## Page 54

13-00000

Cary reported that Chairman Stokes' staff has suggested that an inter-

mediary other than the president, perhaps the 10b, be named to make a decision

on the release of any documents we have relevant to their inquiry. The Direc-

tor noted that Chairman Stokes should be advised that any document in question

will receive his personal attention.

s.:

---

## Page 55

13-00000

........

5 August 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 5 August 1977

The Director was on the West Coast.

Mr. Blake chaired the meeting.

Cary said that in reacting to Chairman Stokes' request for material on

assassinations, it is important to review material provided the Church Conmittee.

---

## Page 56

13-00000

TOP. SECRET SENSITIE

9 August 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 9 August 1977

The Director was in route to the Agency having had breakfast with

Godfrey Sperling and other newsmen. Mr. Blake chaired the meeting.

---

## Page 57

13-00000

Dirks advised that House Assassinations Comnittee staffers have received

a briefing by NPIC on the state-of-the-art on photographic interpretation

and have been

asking some rather specific questions re some photographs in

their possession.

He added that Doug Cummins, OLC, has been managing this

inquiry. In response to Mr. Blake's questions as to whether or not this is

a proper role, Lapham observed that we probably would have no difficulty

but Mr. Blake asked to be kept informed with a review toward making some

determination. Action:

OLC)

---

## Page 58

13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 10 August 1977

10 August 1977

---

## Page 59

13-00000

Miller advised that House Assassinations Conmittee Chairman Stokes is

pushing for some independent audit of our excisions of material provided in

connection with their investigation.

A lengthy discussion followed on the

merits of establishing a special review mechanism. The Director noted that

an option would be for him and Chairman Stokes to review any issues that might

grow out of the Committee's random samples.

The Director asked Lapham and

Miller to come up with the best option, although in his judgment a DCI/Chair-

man review might be preferable.

---

## Page 60

13-00000

-..

TOP, SECEST CErCITIVE

11 August 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 11 August 1977

The Director was out of the city on leave. The Acting Director, Mr.

Blake, chaired the meeting.

Miller advised that in pursuit to his exchange with the Director at

resterday's staff meetinc

agreement has been reached with House Assassina-

tions Committee Counsel Blakey to move forward on a memorandum of understand-

ing between the DCI and Chairman Stokes providing. that they shall meet to

attempt to resolve any differences over disclosure of information.

---

## Page 61

13-00000

TOP SECRET SERGITIVE

12 August 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 12 August 1977

The Director was out of the city on leave; Mr. Blake chaired the

meeting.

1..

---

## Page 62

13-00000

...

Miller said that he and Tony Lapham were satisfied with the draft

memorandum of understanding between the DCl and House Assassinations Com-

mittee Chairman Stokes. He suggested that the agreement be transmitted to

Admiral Turner for his review.

Blake noted that he would speak to Miller

about this later in the morning.

---

## Page 63

13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 19 August 1977

19 August 1977

---

## Page 64

13-00000

:

In response to Niller's inquiry, the Director noted that he had signed

the memorandum of

understanding with Chairman Stokes" Committee.

---

## Page 65

13-00000

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

30 August 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

MORNING MEETING OF 30 August 1977

The Director was at his office in EOB. Mr. Blake chalred the meeting.

---

## Page 66

13-00000

valler advised that the Dutch journalist who claims to have some myster

itness in the Kennedy assassination case is probably ill-advised, since ou

Information suggests that deMohrenschildt was not of a stable mind. (See

attached article from the 29 August Washington Star.)

---

## Page 67

13-00000

MIRE REALIT

ONLIGE

WASHINGTON SEAR (GREEN ' E)

29 AUGUST 1977

Knows JFK Plot Go-Between, Dutch Journalist Says

United Press International

De Mohrenschildl, who was ques- .:

"I could nol go any further than

Duich journalist William Oltmans: lioned by the Warren Commission, . saying I think lie is connecled with!

partment official today

says he will meet with & Justice De Shotgun lase March In Palm Beach, • witness"

the CiA." said Ollmans.

Oltmans said that, since his last

salety guarantees for a person he

died, he wanted

"suffi-

said

was a ClA go-between in the

guarantees

John F. Kennedy assassination.

cide, but Ditmans said Iwo

yould slay alive, the new witness)

and sought. them

The alleged go-between is the sec-

visited De Morhenschildt before his from President Carter in mid-June.

ond of two men whom Oltmans said : death. "De Morhenschildt sought

The request moved through White

were involved in a conspiracy to kill

protection from the wrong people,"

House offices, lo Presidential Aide

Kennedy.

said Oltmans.

Hamilton

• i=

Jordan,

and then. was

(George) 'de

'Oltmans described his new:'"wit-

_ Montenschildt

passed to Robert Keuch, Oltmans

(the first man) could be considered a

ness"

as a

"Key man between the

said.

World War Il bomb, the new witness

ClA in Washington and persons in

Keuch, depuly assistant allorncy

Dallas." He refused to give his name

general of the criminal division and

for security reasons.

•the Justice Department's special

•"He is a key man in the execulion

ject of a book Oilmans wrote about

•of the- assassination in Dallas.

De

council for assassination, mallers,

confirmed he would meet loday with

Kennedy's dealh.

Morhenschildt was a minor figure."

---

## Page 68

13-00000

----

9 September 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THIE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 9 September 1977

The Director was at his EOB office; Mr. Blake is ill; Mr. Wells chaired

the meeting.

-

..:

---

## Page 69

13-00000

Waller noted that Blakey, House Select Committee on Assassinations

staff, wants to pursue a "working hypothesis" that CIA had a connection witl

swald before the Kennedy assassination and later tried to cover up that con-

Blakey therefore wants to interview CIA people who would have been

aware of any such connection had there been one.

It was agreed that the staff

should pursue any investigation to put to rest the allegation of a CINOswald

connection, but it should not be given a list of people to interview.

---

## Page 70

13-00000

3 October 1977

I-IENDRANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Mecting Minutes of 3 October 1977

---

## Page 71

13-00000

Laphan reported that House Comnittee on Assassinations Starter Blakey

net with LC and GC representatives and stated that they would be taking

testimony from a Mr. Hall who claims to have had a relationship with the

Agency and to have signed a secrecy agreement.

Blakey suggested that we

provide a letter saying there was no such relationship or agreement.

only Agency record of any kind regarding Mr. Hall is that DCD considered

contacting him but never actually made the contact. The Director concurred

with a draft letter read by Laphan but asked that we provide such letters

only to Congressional Comnittees who have a legitimate requirement. He

agreed with Cary's suggestion that the Agency be informed of any information

Mr. Hall provides the Conmittee that contradicts the Agency's records.

---

## Page 72

13-00000

TOP SECRET GENSITIVE

2 December 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 2 December 1977

. The Director was at his BOß office; Nr. Blake chaired the meeting.

1.80

1..

---

## Page 73

13-00000

Wells advised research is being completed on the statement by Mary Gentry

in today's Washington Post (attached). that we ordered bullets for Lee Harvey

He suggested that Hetu may want to consider a public statement

denying same when the investigation has been completed. Hetu noted

that the

allegation appeared in an FBI memorandum.

s.:

---

## Page 74

13-00000

1G

Fridny, Dec. 2, 1917 THE WASHINGION POST

FBI Documents on JFK Killing Raise

Questions on Bullets, Oswald's Moves

• By Margarel 1. Centry

• months ago and were made available

"The interesting thing about this

Associated Press

yesterray lo the Associaled Picss.

order is that it is for ammunilion

Newly disclosed FBI documenls on

The documents, many heavily con.

which does not fit and cannot he

the assassinalion of Join F. Kennedy

sorcd, show that the FBI attempted

fireel in any of the USMC weapons."

raise, but do not answer, questions

to trace the falal hullels from the

ime they were manufaclured until

said an FBI memo dated Dec. 2, 1963.

about. Lce Harvey Oswald's move-.

hey reacher the assassin's hands

"This gives rise to the obvlous spec-

me)its in the days before Dallas, and

about the source of the bullets that

Agents initinlly were perplexed by

ulation that it Is a contract for am-

a piece of evidence they found.

munition placed by CIA with Western

The bullets

were 6.5 millimeler

under a USMC cover for conceniment

Mannlicher-Carcano ammunition.

Agenls dictermined that the manuinc.

purposes," the memo continued.

turcr was the Western Cartridge Corp.

In other words, FBI officials sper-

of East Allon, IlI.

vialed that the CIA was using the

Agents in

Illinois examined the

Marine Corps as a cover to purchase

company's

production records

and

ammunition in secret.

vited i a private releare wese pro.

round that the firm produced 4 millior

rounds of this type of ammunition for

N' memo wrilten at FBI headquar

the U.S. Marine Corps in 1954.

lers the next day noted that the

George Zucker Saics Co. of Chicag»

had purchased about 2 million round:

for commercial resale In 1962.

In the first batch of files released.

these were the only lwo memos deni

ing wilh the ammunilion. The materi

al said nothing more lo explain oi

resolve the agents' speculation. Nor

was it known whether the files to hi

released next week, and another 10.

000 pages due later, would shed moir

light on the question.

The Warren Commission investigal

eel the assassination and concludel

that Oswald, acting

alone, killed

Kennedy. The commission

reporter

that

this type

of ammunition

"is

readily available for purchase from

nail order houses as well as a fer

un shops." It noted that "some :

nillion rounds have been placed or

sale in the United States."

The records showed that the Fl!

kept close walch and a voluminow:

file on Oswald from his dcleclion 1"

he Soviet Union in Octoher, 1951.

and aller he relurned to the Unileri

Stales in Junc, 1962.

But Ile bureau lost lrack of him

for sevcral weeks in Senlember and

Oclober, 1963, and agenls in Dallas

Lillle Rock and Now Orleans wis

put on aiert lo locale him and his

Russian-born wife, Marina.

---

## Page 75

13-00000

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

8 December 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 8 December 1977

The Director was

out of the city; Mr. Blake chaired the mecting.

Wells advised that Station Mexico continues to have severe

problems with the

which has little faith in our ability to keep secrets

in light of FOIA releases.

In response to Laphan's inquiry, Wells noted

that release of information acquired by a

of Soviet lines in the

Oswald case is one point in question.

Lapham added that he was meeting with

Justice today on the further declassification of documents requested in the

ITT case and possible additional Agency witnesses. Justice is asking us

to lurther sanitize material already provided, some of which would impact

on data obtained by Station Mexico.

He explained that the 150 documents now

in the hands of Justice could be subpoenaed and we would have difficulty

defending our position unless we go to the Attorncy General and perhaps the

President. He will review and advise.

---

## Page 76

13-00000

..

Waller advised that the House Select Conmittee on Assassination is

apparently satisfied with arrangements made whereby members will read a

sterilized version of the IG's assassination report while staff member Blakey

has the unsanitized version in order to answer questions that may occur to the

reader.

Cary noted that his staff officers were spending an inordinate amount

of time sitting in on briefings, coping with the KCIA and Assassination

Conmittee investigations, etc.

---

## Page 77

13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Norning Meeting of 27 December 1977

27 December 1977

---

## Page 78

13-00000

Cary noted that the House Assassinations Connittee is accelerating its

work and will be levying requirements on the DDO for the release of a

vast

number of documents.

---

## Page 79

13-00000

--

OP. SECRET SENSITIVE

30 December 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Morning Meeting of 30 December 1977

Aciniral Turner and Mr. Blake were on leave; Mr. Wells chaired the

meeting.

---

## Page 80

13-00000

Cary said House Assassinations Connittee staffer Blakey has encouraged

us to set up a task force to review the several thousand docunents they

have requested.

Wells noted that there are officers in the CI Staff who

will be departing in March and can provide full-time interim help in this

chore.

---

