# 104-10186-10305

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10305

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATIONSRERORI ONI

CHINFORMATION-REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Ula SANTOrial POAlalRA LaPUNDAEARA ASArTDE UDA MALlODA DAlADRA al UhA UAILS ALAIAS UILADA UDA IDPRALRE Ol EDA EETUORAÇO LADa Toul

ANA TA3 NDS TAL IDA TNTARIDRONA OR, PATAIARIOT Of MAICD IA ALT MANDMI lO NA UEBULDONTORS DATMOR lA ATRRÍDILDS DE YAN

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NQ.

SUBJECT Ibrahim VILA

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

CSCI-2, 781, 887

17 June 1964

1

REFERENCES

DATE Of 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D.C.

DATE ACQ. May 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

IMIS IS UNEVALUATED MSSANATON SOURCE OR

DIMOS ARL DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE,

A former Cuban Is officer who served with the Cubun Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Corment. The following report is one of a serles

contalning persosality information provided by the source and

Includes supplemeutal information from the records of this Agenry.

Ibrahim VILA is a Cuban Intelligence Service officer of the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (DGI - General Directorate of Intelligence)

stationed at the Culun Embassy In Praguc, Czechoslovakia, 1

Headquarters Comment.

1. The records of this Agency reveal that Ibrahim VILA is probably

Identical with the General Manager of Cubana Airlines Prague

office, Ibrahima VILA Abreu, who made the following trips:

departed Haba-a for Prague on 13 January 1962; Prague for Habana

on 15 May 1962: ard Habana for Prague on 23 May 1962. He

carried Cuban gassport number 92237. There is no additlonal

identifiable infarmation in the records of this Agency.

SECRET

SO FOREIGN DISSEM

1

STATE

1 DIA

І ACHY

RER CAICLAST

TAlR

INSA

Iaür

l oce

TFBI 2

CINCSO #

J&NS

(Noto, fiald distribution indicarod by "§".).

INFORMALION RELORT

NEORMATAONKRErORT

V'A SA EOB I WE 5 K

SiLL

TEACANADAT

LX-1510

VH SA MOB Y WE MADR E CE RSA

3 IENDRITISH

INO PROJECT

VHSAR

VH SAL

HUL NAVE

E2.LY

(MN 2)

COORSI -22.262, 88760

TOT* WH, SA 6 (L), WE 1 (2). CI 4. RUD 1

LIAIDOM

16815-20 me

201-HONE

RSALX

FORM NO.

HAH9H:SSET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Foproduce

2I5R

---

