(104-10186-10197| '. [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Ths material contatas information adecting the Metional Defense of te United States within thie mesaing of ibe Raptousde Laws, Tue
AN UBC Bove, 191 and TA ibe tranemioaion of revelation of whieh Ie any manner to en unevttonent perwoa Is promibited ey law

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO. . CSCI-316/00607-65

country Cuba
sumect "Juan Carlos" (an alias) pare ost, © 9 February 1965
ae ~ ®BTURNTO CIA
Background Use Only No. races 1
Do Not Reproduce a eeuces -«CS=311/00116-64 :
eae "ees :
July
Ria 1964
Washington, D. C.
Cale aca. January 1965. : : FIELD REPORT NO.

THis 1} UNEVALUATED IM/OSMATION, SOURCE ORADINGS ASE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE,

source, A former Cuban 1S officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headq' ters Comments

The following report 1s one of a serics containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

: It 1s requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checkiggwitbhh this Agency.

1, "Juan Carlos" is an officer in the South American Section
of the Departamento Ilegal (Illegal Department) of the Direccion
General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence -
DGI). Prior to 1962 he was an attache at the Cuban Embassy in|
Chile, but due to a personal fuarrel with "Ulises Delmar," of the
Cuban Embassy in Chile, he was returned to Cuba,

2, “Juan Carlos" was born jf about 1940, He is five feet
seven inches tall, weighs between 160 and 170 pounds, and has
a envy: Build. He has dare brown hair and light blue or green

eyes.

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
on “Zuan Carlos."

5
4
SECRET 3
NO FOREIGN DISSEM 2
1
STATE Tova Tamar, Trave Tan . TOE Toce FBI 2
REP _CINCLANT CINCSO # I&NS 1
Note: Field distribution ladicated by “#".)

[EX 1838; LX 2355
UPGA 19983 (16De¢

