# 104-10320-10058

## Page 1

AAANA

1704-10320-10058

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

0D/05-385

OGC 75-2491

8 July 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Associate Deputy Director for Administration

Associate Deputy Director for Operations

Associate Deputy Director for Science and Technology

Associate Deputy Dixector for Intelligence

SUBJECT

Eugene B. Dinkin v. Department of Defense and Central

Intelligence Agency

1. This Office has recently received a copy of a complaint filed on 26 June

1975, against the Department of Defense and this Agency in the United States

District Court for the Eastern District of New York by Eugene B. Dinkin.

Mr. Dinkin is seeking damages based upon a belief that a Warren Commission

document (No. 943) entitled "Allegations of PFC Eugene Dinkin xe: Assassina-

tion Plot" is a misrepresentation by CIA and DOD of the facts surrounding his

assertion in 1963 of prior knowledge of the assassination of President Kennedy -

2. I would appreciate a response frim your office on the existence of

any files or records on Eugene B. Dinkin by 21 July 1975. Should there be

a delay in complying with this request or should you have any questions, please

contact me on x7503 or x1395 (red).

Exile I. Jeetco

LEMILE L. JULIAN O

Office of General Counsel

---

## Page 2

13-00000

TO

DIN CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM N

I CONFIDENTIALY

SECKET:

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

MA/DDO

10 JUL 1975

C

c1 StHt

6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

Remarka:

1-3

case.

Ac1

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

for

3-5 You may wish to

Paul Hartian

thing.

onsult with

C/CI

n the Warren Coumissio

1-07

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

Emile d. Julian/OGO, 7D07 Ags •e

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL.

Use previeus editions

→ 43M00: 101

DATE

7/10/75

SECRET

140.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

-/155-75

NENORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Office of General Counsel

Nr. Emile L. Julian

* ..

Eugene B. Dinkin v. Department of Defense

and Central Intelligence Agency

Your memorandum to the Associate Deputy

Director for Operations (OGC 75-2491),

dated 8 July 1975, subject as above.

Your memorandum was referred to the Counterintelligence

Staff for action.

any files or records on DINKIN.

In it you inquired about the existence of

2, Attached are copies of all pertinent documents and

cables concerning Eugene B. DINKIN. These are part of the

personality file on Lee Harvey OSWALD, and are thus readily

available at any time. There are no other references to

subject in the DDO records system. Please note that the

document with the source symbol and number, XAL- 176,18,

dated 19 May 1964, is also Warren Commission Document No.

943.

Any proposed use of the 'attachments or the information

contained in them will require coordination with this Staff,

which will of course want to sanitize them.

Attachments:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

George T. Kalaris

Chief

Counterintelligence Staff

BERN 2397,

7 Nov. 63

BRLN 4752,

8

NOV:

63

BERN 2405,

8

NoV:

63

DIP. 85270, 29 Nov 63

XAAZ-17618, 19 May 1964

SECRET

63-41

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

RCIN/Paul Hartmen

# JlBender

-18 July 1945

Distribution:

Orig &

1

OGC

ADDO

C/CI/IS

DoN CI/IS nanetrace file

MiS chrono

2INPDET CL DUO61470

SECRET,

63-5

---

## Page 5

13-00000

— USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECTER (Optional)

DINKIN,

Eugene B

(OGC

Case

575-2491)

FROM:

EXTENSION

JLBender

B

TO: (Omew designoton, room number, ond

bwilding)

2 C 293

R-1659

PAlE 16 October 1975

DATE

RECEIVEO

FORWARONO

COMMENTS (Number esch comment lo

a where "Dren a line occas colume oft

AC/CI/IS

2°

C/CI/IS/PA

3.

CI/EXO

1799T

3.

AC/CI/IS

20

4.32

Esper

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

Citis-loca

Distribution:

Orig - Routing watts- fled fori

1= AC/CILIS WOatt

FOlA File

CHIS/Chrono Who att

X-ref:warren Commission

010 U34

PREVIOUS M

4116

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

Re OGC request concerning DINKIN

•(OGC 75-2491) F- on.16, July, L/

received the attached transmitta

slip from OGC, asking C/CI/IS to

act for the DDOseT passed, thel

frequest to Paul: Hartman on As

18: July, and he and I prepared

a. response the same dates?

(CI 155-75) This package was

misplaced in one of my safes i

On 30 July there is a note to

the effect that CI/EXO was

handling the matter for CT Staff

On 29 August, Diana Porter

recorded the following:

"CI/EXO-office-caHed-saying

they had had an inquiry res

regarding, OGC case #75-249T*

(DINKIN) stating

that CL: Staft

was onty. component still out-

standing.on.this. request..I

took our completed file to

CT/EXo, which indreated CH/EX

was office of control. CI/EXO

remembered case and is checkin

his records and will reply to

OGC."

There is no record of any reply

from cl/exo in our files, so 1

do not know whether the five

documents attached to CI 155-75

were in fact passed.

Prene

JLBender

Attachments

IMPOET CL EY 011622

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED!

---

