‘iod-403 1010080 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Ww

TRANSMITTAL SLIP



c]La
SECRET fu: S

10 February 1976 ~ ~

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Review Staff—

‘ATTENTION: Mr. Walter Elder seen crn
VIA: sa/DDO

SL. suBJECTE. ‘SSC Request =... we ee
REFERENCE: RS 76-0083/A (14 January 1976)

1. Re question number 1 of reference: Attachment "A" contains
the names of Agency personnel who were in Mexico City, Mexico, during
the period 1 September 1963 through 31 December 1963 and who are still
on duty. Attachment "B" contains the names of Agency personnel who
were in Mexico City during this same period but are now retired or no
longer on duty. It is understood that these attachments will be
retained in the Headquarters building for use by the Committee Staff.

2. Re question number 3(a) of reference: For your background,
the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) was a Cuban student
exile entity founded in September 1960 as an anti-Communist revolutionary
organization dedicated to the overthrow of the Castro regime. The parent
organization of the DRE was the Directorio Revolucionario (DR), a revolu-
tionary organization of Cuban students opposed to the Batista regime
which actively joined the Castro forces by organizing a guerrilla move-
ment which contributed greatly to the collapse of the Batista regime.
The Castro government, themselves of student origin, recognized the DR
power and by-passed them politically by forming the new regime without
their participation. The original DR became Communist controlled and
directed. While the Agency had no role in the founding, the DRE was an
entity used by the CIA as a unilateral assét in pursuing U.S. policy
objectives. CIA support to the DRE ceased on 30 September 1966 and formally
terminated on 1 January 1967. At that time DRE files were reviewed and
material dealing with CIA support and operations were either destroyed
or turned over the JMWAVE Station. The DRE was expected to continue as
an organizational entity and continue its activities independent of CIA.

3. The DRE files of both Station JMWAVE and Headquarters that are
available have been reviewed and Lee Harvey Oswald's name does not appear
in these files. WAVE cable 8049 (in 66782) of 22 November 1963, states
in the third sentence, "according AMSPELL files, Oswald", undoubtedly
refers to the DRE files maintained in the DRE office in Miami, Florida.

E2 IMPDET
SECRET CL BY 009560


13-00000

SECRET

These entity files were independent of the JMWAVE Station files. Had

Station JMWAVE. referred to its files in WAVE 8049 the cable would have
been worded, “according AMSPELL Station files." The file of AMHINT-53,
a former executive of the DRE, has also been reviewed and no reference
to Oswald was found. The file number which appears on WAVE 8049 is no

---. longer in.use_and.the contents.of this. former_file were transferred

into Oswald's and other 201 files by the CI Staff. A tape of the radio
debate cited in WAVE 8049 is included in the Oswald 201 held by the CI
Staff.

--—- 4, “Re question number 3(b) of reference: We-have: been unable-to-
determine-if Station JMWAVE was instructed to review its files for
information on Oswald. For many years the CI Staff has been the focal
point for the collation of any and all. information concerning Oswald
and if the J“WAVE files on ‘any Cuban groups contained information on
Oswald such information should be reflected in Oswald 201 file.

signed = -
Raymond A. Warren

Richard S. Sampson
Chief
Latin America Division

Attachménts:
A & B as stated

2

SECRET


13-00000

MEXICO CITY STATION PERSONNEL

August - December 1963

Patricia L. Johnson 16
Robert T. Shaw. 23

3 (Herbert Manel.
jomas J. Keenan 3

William Murray. Jr. (Monterrey) 10

12
au en Marine 25

(Monterrey) 14

Dorothy J. Hennick 5
? 7

W

Ww
a

Says Wy Go Wot tas
Man
wor

wW
a

Feb
Apr
Se
Fe
Jan
Jan

May
Jul
Nov
Dec
Dec
Dec
Jan
Apr
Jun
Jun

‘Jul

Aug
Aug

Oct
Dec

Peer ere ee ene ee ee ees

ATTACHMENT "A"

20 Dec 65


13-00000

MEXICO CITY STATION PERSONNEL
August - December 1963

(Retired)
Glenn H. Whidden 3 Apr
6 May
3 10 May
3(Robert Zambernardi]_ 30 Jun
.3(Seymour D. Trinnich] 21 Aug.
8 Apr
24 Sep
vid A. Phillips 25 Sep
Josenh M. Rescicn 1 Oct
3\| S Feb
3 Wack Stewart) 1 Apr
entice R. Marheine 23 Jun
ar — ° ] 19 Jul
3 (Gunner W. Beckman) 18 Aug
Douglas J. Feinglass Ss Jun
Alan P. White 18 Jun
19 Jun
3 22 Jul
6 Aug
1 Sep
ae 30 Nov
3{Howard T. Btsinge: 13 Dec
eats 26 Dec

ATTACHMENT "B"

Ce ee ee De

4 Dec. 63
22 Oct 68
2 Dec 64
S Apr 64
26 Sep 63
4 Aug 63
9 Oct 63
15 Mar 64
25 Aug 66
17 Jul 64
1 Aug 65
31 Jan 67
27 Jul 64
25 Sep 64
28 Sep 67
8 Sep 65
3 Jul 65°
1S Sep 65
22 Nov 64
9 Jan 66
19 Jan 66
7 May 66
15 Nov 64

