104-10119-10388 [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

AETURNTO CIA

Background Use On
25 April 1968 Do vot Renae

At the request of Mr. Fred Bucci of 0S, a review was made of
Subject's file to determine 1f there is any indication of an alleged
acquaintance between Subject and one DEBORD (phonetic). The inquiry
originated with WH Division who called Mr. Bucci for information oe

of his past position with Project JMWAVE. Subject was approved as 6

fs Jenuary 1968. The Division had heard
@ rumor ct was acquainted with one DEBORD (phonetic) who was
“close to GARRISON" (District Attorney Jim GARRISON of New Orleans). A
review of Subject's OS file proved negative. :

The undersigned also reviewed the security file (#C 21598) of
; Lawrence J. LA BORDE whose son, Michael, furnished information to
GARRISON. ‘The results of this review were also negative. (Copy of
summary on LA BORDE prepared for the GARRISON Case is attached).

The only similarity of information in the two files which might
be considered as a possibility only of such acquaintance is as followg:
Subject was employed as a small boast operator with Project MARC et _
Key West, Florida from January to September 1961. Lawrence J. LA BORDE
was granted a Provisional Covert Security Approval in March 1961 for use
as @ maritime asset for Project JMATE in the Miemi, Florida ares.

Mr. Bucci advised he would furnish the undersigned eny additional
information that might develop that would involve Subject in the GARRISON
investigation. Ee ay

Sareh K. Hell

Att. as Stated

Grau? 1
7 Extluded from gotomaticy
| 4 dowagratisg and
P { Goclazsitication



ce “EGRET

20 Roverber 1957

SUBJECT: LABORDE, Lewrence J.
(See also ERMING, Cereld Potrick)

ALLECATTIOR: CIA CONNECTION:

Levrence J. LABORDE, 58 LABORDE was granted 6 Provisional
yerr old forser Fort Captain, Covert Security Approval on 2k Morch 1961
visited the New Orleans DC& for use as a maritime asset for Project
office, said he was en ex-CIA SHATE. A CSA was deferred pending
‘ecployee and feared GARRISON receipt of additional bio data on
would subpoena him. LABORDE's Subject. On 2% April 1962 cleurance
son, Kichael W. LABORDE, hed ection was cancelled as Subject was
furnished OARRISOR information. no longer of interest to TFH.

Mey be a GARRISON provocation. . :

SOURCE:

Visit by Subject to New
Orleans DCS office in May 1957
and phoned DCS office in New
Orleans in Septenber 1967.

OS INDICES RESULTS:

Subject's file reflects little bio data and beceuse of this
luck, & request for a CSA on 17 Mirch 1961 for use os a mritime osset
ou Project JMATE wes deferred until receipt of further informction.

A PCSA was ted on 24 Merch 1961 for assessment of Subject. On
2h April 1 the request for the CSA was cancelled because he was of
no further interest.

fn FBI report of 23 May 1962 seid Subject had contacted repre-
sentatives of the Cuban Revolutionary Council in Hew Orleans, his home
tow; had offered his services; end 221d he had. deen rumming a boat
out of Key West amuggling Cubans oni guns with the knowledge of CIA.

A Hiani report of June 1962 disclose? that LABORDE had been
erploye? by the U. S. Department of Agriculture in Mexico in 1947-1949
but was fired for excessive drinking, dischzrging unauthorizei firearms,
and non-support of dependent children.

the New Orleans STATES-ITEY of 23 July 1952 neve? Subject as the

source of bitterly anti-CIA rerirks cni on erticle in the DERVER Post of
3 June 1962 aleo eppezrea to be based on statements from LADORDE.

SEGRET

7 _ a | ee



pce Scunce

AOFEI report of August 19662 atcted that Subject had duped
certain persons into buying a schooner, the "Elsie Riechart," by
eleiring that he and u crev would operate it for Cuban operations
which would be paid for by the U. S. Government, although, the
Government could not openly acknowledge the support.

DETAILS:

When LABORDE visited the Nev Orleans DCS office on 11 May 1967,
he ead he feared that GARRISON would subpoene him and said he ws
willing to leave the U. 5S. to avoid a subpoena and that he wanted
the DCS office to tell him what to do. Subject's visit was believed
to be a provocation by GARRISON in an attempt to entrap CIA into
advising Subject te leave Louisiana. ‘This would -have buttressed
GARRISON's charge that CIA and the FBI are attempting to obstruct
the course of justice in New Orleuns.

pA

SECRET

