‘104-10104-10148, | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NOTE:

The following materials relate to preparation of the

psychological assessment of Daniel Ellsberg.



NOTE:

The first page of this affidavit was missing from
Tab C, Volume I, Documentation Supplied by CIA 1 June 1973.



STATE OF VIRGINIA)
ss
COUNTY OF FAIRFAX)

being first duly sworn, depose and say:

eptember 1928, was graduated from Lambuth

College, Jackson, lennessee, and Vanderbilt University School of Medicine,
Nashville, ‘Tennessee, and have been employed by the Centrel Intelligence
Agency since November 1958. I have been in the Psychiatric Staff of

the Office of Medical Services of the Agency since that time.

2. In the sumer of 1971 the Medical Office was approached by
the Director of Security concerning the preparation of a psychiatric
study on Deniel Elisberg, who had been accused of leaking the Pentagon
papers. To the best of my recollection, it was my understanding fron
the Director of Medical Services that'the DOL wes knowledgeable end had
approved the Director of Security's visit and the request tliat was being
made of the Medical Office. There was‘ general reservation and concern
expressed about such an effort involving es it did potentially
controversial ana highly speculative efforts. It was felt that such
activity, involving as this did an American citizen, might be outside of
the Agency's purview. Tt was recognized that such efforts, while
desirable in sone quarters, could ve misunderstood, misinterpreted, and
mistakenly considered to have been derived fron the doctor-patient

therapeutic relationship which was in fact far from the case. An initial

under the direction of myself

NV eeeort was prepered by Dr. AB
‘based upon a review of magazine and newspaper articles containing
Diogrephical data sbout Elisberg, as well as sone FBI documents consisting

of interview reports by informants about Ellsberg.

ese Sit RELEASE 1
CHA STA REVIEW PROGRAM



3. n 12 August 1971, on instructions from the Director of

Medical Services, the writer met with Mr. David Young, Room 16, Executive
Office Building, to discuss the matter of a psychiatric write-up on the
case of Daniel Ellsberg. Ir. Young, at the tine the appointment vas nede,
had stated that there vas more information which he vished to aiscuss.
The meeting lasted for approximately an hour and Mr. Young was joined by
a Mr. Linney (probably Liddy), who seened to be an assistant. kr. Young
stated that the Elisberg study had the highest priority and had been
requested by He. Ehrlichnan end Dr. _Kissinger. Mr. Young also stated that
the President hed been informed of this study. He stated that it vas a
multi-faceted approach and the psychiatric report vould be only one facet.
He stated that he understood that the Agency vas uneasy about undertel:ing
such a study and assured me that there hed been no delineation as to how
information derived from the study vould be utilized, and if there vere
any utilization that great care would be given to make it nonattributable
to the Agency. Mr. Young was interested in knowing what kind of data
would be needed in order to provide further study of the sort done
"on Fidel Castro." Lster on Mr. Hovard Hunt joined the group. Mr. Hunt
recognized me, being a former Agency employee, and we greeted cordially. |

- Hunt amplified on Mr. Young's coménts end stated it vas his wish to
“try Dr. Ellsbetg in public." other coments were made by lr. Hunt or
"Mr. Linney" to the effect that the aim vould be to render Dr. Ellsberg
ineffective or to meke him the object of pity as a broken men. ‘Me. Hunt
stated that he wished to see data of the sort that "psychiatrists found out
about Barry Goldwater in 196l," and he expressed interest in being able

to refer in a knowledgeable way to Dr. Elisberg's oedipal conflicts or

castration fears and other similar points.
4. It seemed from Mr. Young and "Mr. Linney" that there wes
considerable concern that Dr. Elisberg had a great deal more sensitive
information which it was feared he would from tine to time periodically
expose. "Ir. Linney" stated that Dr. Ellsberg thought of hinself as

“having the white hat and the President as having the black hat."



“5. A discussion wes held with the grouy concerning the dengers of
preparing such a study in isolation and without‘ the opportunity for the
free give and take discussions among experts, as had been the case in our
other studies. I was informed that’ more biographic material vas available.
Twas requested to give examples of the kind of information needed. I
pointed out thet insofer es possible, “although possibly not available,"
data from eerly life from nurses or close relatives would be useful. I
agreed with "Mr. Linney" that school progress, including testing, vould be
helpful. In the same way, yeer books, his years in college end in the
military, comments from friends vould be helpful. Mr. Runt also stated
‘that it would be‘useful for Dr. Ellsberg's first wife to be interviewed
and he felt, "You cen easily arrange that under an operational alies."

It was pointed out that the first Mrs. Ellsberg would be cooperative.

6.: Information was also offered by irs Hunt or "Mr. Linney" to
the effect that Dr. Elisberg hai beén in analysis although times or
jocation were not know for certain, "ir. Linney" pointed out that after
Dr. Elisberg gave the Pentegon papers away, he telephoned his analyst
stating, "Now I en‘free."

7. “Mr. Linney" end lr. Young, with Mr. Hunt's assent, pointed |
out that the Ellsberg study jas of the highest priority, even over the
SALT negotiations. It ves agreed that the further Diogrephic information
regarding Dr. Elisberg vould be sent to us and Mr. Hunt agreed to menage
this. Mr. Hunt would elso make arrangements whereby periodic conferences
would be held as necessary. Mr. Hunt did, however, offer that he did not
wish to come out to the Agency if he could avoid it. |

8. At this point Mr. Hunt made some comments in the presence of
‘the group based on his previous acquaintanceship with me and he remained
behind and made some further comments expressing a desire that nis
presence and participation in the meeting not be mentioned at the Agency.
After arriving back at the Agency I informed Mr. Hunt by telephone that
it was not feasible for me to avoid reporting Mr. Hunt's presence at the
meeting. ifr, Hunt expressed great regret that this vas necessary,

stating thet he had adequate contact with Generel Cushman end was on good



terns vith the Director. He-vas reluctasit in agreeing to ry’ statenent
that it was necessary to inform the Director of Medical Services.

Mr. Hunt wished to know if this could be treated as confidential medical
information, but could not tell the writer in what vay. I discussed the
entire situation-~the dangers and the reservations end the gravity of
the situation vith the Deputy Chief, Psychiatric Staff, the Director
and Deputy Director of Medical Services.

9. On 13 August 1971, additional information vas received froa
the White House. ‘To the best of my knowledge this was from Howard Hunt
and consisted of poorly Xeroxed classified FBI reports end Departuent of
State documents. This material provided additional data end on
20 August 1971 the Director of Medical Services and the writer met with
the Deputy Director for Support concerning the White House request in
the Elisberg case end the continuing pressure and desire for a psychiatric
study. The problems associated with developing the study and our
continuing reservations were discussed in detail. In view of Mr. Hunt's
enthusiasm, concerns existed about the checks and balances to actions
based on a study if one were to be undertaken. To the best of my recall
the Deputy Director for Support vas in agreénent vith us. While the |
additional information furnished further suggested -that Ellsberg vas
under enotionel pressure it was not possible to arrive at eny firm
conclusions or comprehensive understanding of the nan's personality.

The adéitional information indicated that:
. He had revealed quasi-Secret information vhile

"til tn the gervice when he ves applying for a
Pa.D. fellowship.

>. He had volunteered for Vietnamese service for the
State Department in 1965 while under the stress of
obtaining a divorce from his first wife.

c. He had sought psychoanalytic treatment between the
fall of 1968 and 1970 with a psychoanalyst. (who was
determined to be professionally qualified and

reputable) in California.



a. He may have deen involved in leaking information
ebout a South Vietnanese in 1970 while he was
actually in psychoanalytic treatment.
Jo the dest of my recollection it wes agreed that the
implications of the ebove data would be orally discussed by ne with
Mr. Hunt, Mr. Liddy end Mr. Young. It was also agreed that there vould
‘be the greatest reluctance to undertake any interview of the former
Mrs. Ellsberg, end it vas hoped that efter this a written document would
not be necessary.

10. ‘Tne Deputy Director for Support considered advising the
DCI, but it vas decided that I vould first visit Mr. Young end inform hin
that the additional material basically provided for no further
understanding. It ves hoped that this would put an end to the situation,
but if further naterial ves forvarded the matter would have to be dealt
with at that time.

1. ‘the Deputy Director for Support stated thet efter the meeting
with Mr. Young, the DCI vould be brought up to date.

12. Following the meeting on Fridey, 20 August, and in accord
with the discussions on that date, a call wes placed on Monday, 23 August,
to Mr. David Young at the White House.’ Mr. Young was informed that ve
had received the materiel vhich hed been forvarded and that ve had
considered it, and vould be available to discuss the data further.

Mr. Young stated that he would have Mr. Hunt call me. He stated that
Me. Hunt's office vas elsewhere in the building and he aid not have his
number imuediately aveileble. As of 27 August 1971 Mr. Hunt had not
called me. :

23. On 30 September 1971, there is a yellow memorandum of a
telephone cell to me from David Young at the White House with the
message thet Mr. Hunt suggested meeting Wednesday, 27 October, at 11:00 a.n.
On 12 October 1971 I received sone more date from Mr. Hunt at the White

House.


Uy. On 27 October 1971, I met with Mr. Hunt end with Mr. Li

and with lr. Young at the Executive Office Building. The essence of
the observations noted above in the 20 August 1971 discussions were
orally presented. I vas told to prepare the materiel in writing.

Qn 3 Kovember 1971 Mr. Liddy sent ne further infornation on Blsberg.
Oa 1 November 1971 Mir. Young at the White House telephoned me requesting
the report the following day and he ves informed thet the requested
report was at that tine in the hands of my suzervisors for their
evaluation. On 12 November 1971 the material wes delivered by me

to the White House and to Mr. Liddy, Mr. Young and Mr. Hunt. These men

were interested in obtaining information which could be used to defane

" or manipulate Elisberg. While it was never expressed, it was my

impression that the material and information provided were not of

irect interest or usefulness to Hunt, Liddy or Young.

“Ep.

Subscribed ani-sworn to before me this 7k day of snags
1973. “ oy

ME

My Commission Expicce ages 14,1975



NOTE:

An unaddressed note from David Young, which transmitted
three FBI memoranda, Subject: "Daniel Elisberg - Expionage-X",
dated 13 July 1971, 20 July 1971, and 22 July 1971. (These three
memoranda are found at Tab B, Volume Il, CIA Materials Furnished
to the Special Counsel, Committee on the Judiciary, House of
Representatives.)

att 3
APPROVED FOR RELEASE 199
CA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM



Mr. David Young
Room 16

Executive Office Building
The White House

Dave:

Attached is the personelity assessment you
requested on Elisberg. If there are any aspects
of this assessment which, in your opinion requre
amplification, we would be happy to arrange to
make the individual who prepared it available for
discussion. . i

I'know that you appreciate that however this
is used, the Agency should not become involved,

11 August 1971

“ee 2
Director of Security . o 7
: — =
oe — oe

)



[Taenomawntcnecr eth Tow toranosoTrom —]

[_UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL | Secret |

OFFICIAL ROUTING. SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS DATE INITIALS

Director of Security

4E60 Headquarter: 14y8

ASTION DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY

[arprovat DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION

CoNCURRENCE |_| FORMATION SIGHATURE

Remarks:

This indirect assessment should be con-
sidered impressionistic end speculative, es the
date on vhich it is based are quite sparse. If
more reliable family history cnd personel dete
become available, we should be. able to provide
amore solid assessuent. If there are aspects
of this assessment which are unclear or require
amplification, we would be gled to discuss then
with concerned individuels.

COMMENT FILE RETURN i

AB
——___\ S

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

Director of Medical Services
danarter!

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. DATE |

UNCLASSIFIED "|| CONFIDENTIAL [|

Fon 10,937 Use previous editions



13 August 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting With Mr..David Young

1. In connection with instructions from the Director of Medical Services,
an appointment was arranged for 12 August 1971 at 2:00 PM with Mr. David Young,
Room 16, Executive Office Building, to discuss further psychiatric input in
the case of Daniel Ellsberg. Mr. Young, on the telephone, stated that there
was more information available which he wished to discuss.

2. he meeting lasted for approximately an hour and Mr. Young was joined
by a Mr. Linney (?), who seemed to be an assistant. Mr. Young stated that the
Ellsberg study had the highest priority and had been requested by Mr. Erlichman
and Dr. Kissinger. Mr. Young also stated that the President had been informed
of this study. He stated that it was 4 multi-faceted approach and the
psychiatric report would be only one facet. He stated that he understood that
the Agency was uneasy about undertaking such a study and assured the writer
that there had been no deliniation as to how information derived from the
study would be utilized, and if there were any utilization that great care
would be given to make it nonattributable to the Agency. Mr. Young was
interested in knowing what kind of data would be needed in order to provide
further study of the sort done 'bn Fidel Castro." later on Mr. Howard Hunt
joined the group. Mr. Hunt recognized the writer, being a former Agency
employee, and we greeted cordially. Mr. Hunt‘amplified on Mrs Young's
comments ané stated it was his wish’to "try Dr. Ellsberg in public." Other
comments were made by Mr. Hunt or Mr. Linney to the effect that the aim would
be to render Dr. Ellsbery ineffective or to make him the object of pity as a
broken man. Mr. Hunt stated that he wished to see data of the sort that -
"psychiatrists found dut about Parry Goldwater in 1964," and he expressed
interest in being able to refer in a knowledgeable way to Dr. Ellsberg's
oedipal conflicts or castration fears and other similar points.

3. It seems from Mr. Young and Mr. Linney that there is considerable
concern that Dr. Ellsberg has a great deal more sensitive information which
it is feared he will from time to time periodically expose. Mr. Linney
stated that Dr. Ellsberg thinks of himself as "having the white hat and the
President as haying the bila: oe"

hat.

ua E


Meeting With Mr. David Young

4. Some discussion was held with the group about the need to
incorporate joint efforts in studies of this sort. a brief description
was given of the seminar type of. approach which our Staff has evolved over
the years, and of our need to peruse the material and to discuss it in an
oral manner back and forth anong qualified participants. ‘The group was
agreeable to this and stated that more biograshic material was available.
The writer was requested to ‘give examples of the kind of information needed.
The writer pointed out that insofar as possible, "although possibly not
available,"'data from early life from nurses or close relatives would be
useful. The writer agreed with Mr. Linney that school progress, including
testing, would be helpful. In the same way, year books, his years in college
and in the military, comments from friends would be helpful. Mr. Hunt also
stated that it would be useful for Dr. Elisberg's first wife to be interviewed
and he felt, “You can easily arrange that under an operational alias."
Tt was pointed out that the first Mrs. Eilsberg would be cooperative.

5. Information was also offered by Mr. Hunt or Mr. Linney to the effect
that Dr. Ellsberg had been in analysis although times or location were not
known for certain. Mr. Linney pointed out that after Dr. Ellsberg gave the
Pentagon papers away, he telephoned his analyst stating, "Now I am Free."

6. Mr. Linney and rr. Young, with Mr. Hunt's assent, pointed out that
fhe Ellsberg study was of the highest priority, even over the SALT negotiations.
xt was agreed that the further biographic information regarding Dr. Eilsberg
would be sent to us and Mx. Hunt agreed to manage this. Mr. Hunt would also
make arrangements whereby periodic conferences would be held as necessary.
tz- Hunt did, however, offer’ that he did not wish to come out to the agency if
he could avoid it. .

7. At this point Mr. Hunt stated to the group L

Mr, Hunt did not wish it known of his presence at the
“meeting. He stated that his house was in the process of being painted by the
son of the Director of Security and EB has been trying all summer
to find out what I was doing." After arriving back at the Agency, the writer
informed Mr. Hunt by telephone that it was not feasible for him to avoia
xeporting Mr. Hunt's presence at the meeting. Mr. Hunt expressed great regret
that this was necessary, stating that he had adequate contact with
Generat Chshman and was on good terms with the Director. He was reluctant in
agreeing to the writer's statenent that it was necessary to inform the
Director of Medical Services. Mr. Hunt wanted to know if this could be
treated as confidential nedical information, but could not tell the: writer
in what way.

em .



. ¢

Meeting With Mr. David Young

8.
with DD/MS and with DC/PS.

= ooo a

The entire situation was subsequently discussed with D/MS,

aA
/ uD.

Chief, Psychiatric Staff



. SEES a oe . _ —
. ee : :— —— -

| a Wows
| et qanouadt

MILO FT
1¢5-— 6b 96

ON rt a, a vf
ant : ee Cir
a. . ke,


20 August: 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR ‘THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with DD/S and D/NS Regarding Daniel Ellsberg

1. D/Ms and the writer today spoke with the DD/S concerning the
White House request on the Ellsberg case. D/MS made three points
with which the writer is in agreement:

a) The additional information furnished provides further
evidence that Ellsberg was under pressure.. Nontheless, the additional
material provided does not allow for any substantive conclusions or
understanding of this man's personality. He sought psychoanalytic
treatment between the fall of 1968 and 1970 with a qualified and
reputable psychoanalyst in California. the allegation that. after leaking
the Rand study that he called the analyst and stated, “now I'm free” would
Suggest that Ellsberg was still involved in dealing with problems which
either brought him to analysis or which were uncovered in the course of
the treatment. In going to vietnam for the State Department in 1965 while
involved in obtaining a divorce from his first wife, he-had sought to
discharge internal tension by taking action; his afalytic treatment was
unsuccessful in altering this propensitys, Ellsberg revealed secret
information in the course of applying for a Ph.D. fellowship while still
in the service; he may have been involved in leaking information about a
South Vietnamese in 1970 prior to leaking the Rand study. These actions
may have also been the resultants of internal pressures-—the 1970 incident
while he was actually in analysis.

b) There is hesitation about the Psychiatric Staff undertaking
to interview the former Mrs. Ellsberg. It was agreed that there would be
@ great professional reluctance at such a procedure.

¢) There is considerable concern about the use to which the
requested study would be put. In view of Mr. Hunt's enthusiasm, concerns
exist about the checks and balances to actions based'on a study if one
were to be undertaken. \



Meeting with DD/S and D/MS Regarding Daniel Ellsberg — 20 August 1971

2. ‘he DD/S considered the aavisebitity of discussing the matter at
this point with the DcI. It was decided that at this point the writes
would again visit Mx. Youxg and inform him orally that the additional
material provided allows for no further understanding other than as noted
above. It was agreed that the writer would not accept any requirenents
fo undertake to interview the former Mrs. Elisberg. It is hoped that this
will put an end to the situation, but if further material is forwarded,
the matter will have to be dealt with at that time.

3. The DD/S stated that after the meeting with Mr. Young, the DCI
should be brought up to date.

oon : ups ~~
Chief, Psychiatric staff

on



27 August 1971
fo

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation with Mr. David Young

to Mr. David Young.

2. Mr. Young was informed that we had received the material which
had been forwarded and that we had considered it, and would be available
to discuss the data further.

3. Mr. Young stated that this would be from Mr. Hunt, and that he
would have Mr. Hunt call the writer. He stated that Mr. Hunt's office was
elsewhere in the building and he did not have his number immediately
available, in reply to the writer's question as to Mr. Hunt's number.

4. To date, Mr. Hunt has not called the writer.

MA

M.D. oa

“Chief, Psychiatric staff



——
MEMORANDUM C ‘

OF CALL
MA

(vou wenepaneo By. [] vou went visieo By=

‘OF Wrazsnizstion a}
wf ihe ra can

tase att oe PRSRE RD UWSC-OE

Tor

Cy wie cate Zéan Cis wattine 10 see vou
Co Ferurneo your cath =] wiswes an arpointMenr
| MESSAGE

Cy 210-18-7) HE 2 onto pied akin
a Ly: Ate 2932800 ker

we zig

RECEIVED BY Ey PES 47
‘STanoARD a ‘ore tinee—- ie Lolz Lei
Reviseo auc mena) a

OSA FeuR (st a Soran ye

“FASE 1993
ri) FOR RELEASE
es se PROGRAM



MEMORANDUM
OF CALL

wi& CALE By Ey vou jhine varee BL

Meal fos
Man?

Bree cia > oul ie LL 2p
Tw caut aca (0 18 ware ro ee vou

© retuaneo your cau O wsnes an arpontment
ESSAGE

=a
~ oho, 7
Be hep ww Ce

OF (Organin

Reeve ar .
SORE Fae ee
eRe
Cea ae
: =



MEMORANDUM 4
OF CALL
ie si
< MA

yack You WERE eae oO vou)yiene WisiT=D By
f C

: { OO pteice
OF (erzantzatany a

é

PH, - a
(hese ene > eB LST - Co PP
Cy rerunveo youn cat] snes an arrommnene

(Ce aa TL
Mrekril tip be [7 beoreing

Ra te el |

WP 77.
CK We Arr~Grxious cain
RECEIVED BY Toate THES.
eee
SEANDAND FORM a3 "9P0; was e—aesey 4 GaP
G58 Pena Cra) TonaL.6, ee ga

aL i

| 3
QPPROVED FOR RELEASE 199:
Cli HISTURIPAL REVIEW PROGRAM

4



15 November 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Daniel Ellsberg

On 27 October 1971, the writer met with Mr. Howard Hunt, Mr. David Young,
and Mr. Gordon Liddy in Mr. Young's office in the Executive Office Building.
The writer Presented some of the thoughts and ideas developed from a review
of material on the Ellsberg case. As a sequel, the writer .was requested to
prepare material in writing. oo

The notes were polished and were sent by way of the Director of Medical

more.

Mr. Young stated that it might be possible that further consultations
would be requested on the matter.

M.D?

-- APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
‘CINHISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

= Lu 2



2 May 1973

ce
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJEC'

Daniel Elisberg

The writer today requested Dr. AB to make a joint
review of such material as he may hold concerning the evaluation of
Daniel Ellsberg. Dr. 48 initial recollection was that hé hela

Was available in the files. He then checked with Mrs. MC. , his
former secretary who is-now working in the office of the OMS Registrar.
tess HG was able to locate a sealed, Eyes Only envelope, unmarked,

containing a folder therein entitled “Indirect Assessment .- Ellsberg."

In the folder are contained the following documents:

1. A carbon copy of an 18 August’ 1971 memorandum to the writer
from Dr. 4S which begins, "In the context of a conversation
with Dr. 4g concerning the ‘Aging Leaders' paper..."

2. A 10 August 1971 yellow transmittal Slipvto"Dr. MD:
FYI and return" from Dr. 48 and initialed MD”
11 August 1971, and stapled to

3+ a transmittal slip dated 9 August 1971 to "Dre mA ' with
with the remarks, "I have transmitted this“to D/MS for his
reappraisal. “The changes’ are in paragraph 2, page 1; in the
second paragraph of page 2, and in the final sentences.”
it is from Dr. 4g. In hand and dated 10 August 1971 the
following is noted. "Fine. I hope that on the buck slip
you are ‘authoring that some mention will be made for more data
if there is need ‘for further and more precise consideration.
This is signed MA and stapled thereto

& 9 August 1971 carbon copy of a four-page paper concerning
Dr. Elisberg, unsigned, and stapled thereto =

5. a 5 August 1971 three-page carbon copy of an earlier version
of the same paper, also unsigned. v



Daniel Ellsberg - 2 May 1973

A-burn copy of she 9 August 1971 four-page paper.

At this time, the. above described envelope is being retained
by the writer, it having been turned over, by Dr. - + Who is reluctant
to retain it further at this point.

Tt is Dr. 48 __;recollection that the Selected State Department
and FBI memoranda and the press reports, including newspaper and
magazine articles and television interviews, were returned to either
Mre HB or Mr. EB "of the Office of Security.

MA

ee a MDS
Chief, Psychiatric state
Office of Medical Services

(no copies of this memorandum have been made) : . *

ou

