# 104-10246-10033

## Page 1

104-10246-10033

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

BRICECCE

26aT CD 701.

35000

DYST

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

DO NOt Reproduce

Chief, Western Hemisphere

Division

FO.

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

20M

Chief of Station, Mexico City.*

IBJECT

O alson) Knowledge of the (KOATCHAN Operation

TOM REQUIRED - REFERENGES

MICROFILM

Reference:

HMMY -18660, 20 October 1971)

As a result of the Warren Commission proceedings, (Liaison

(and the rest of the world) know that JKLANCE has photographic

coverage of the Cuban Mission.

However, to the best of our

knowledge, no one knows where it is or

who does it.

confirmed

request to Liaison to remove

the offending traffic sign, Head-

quarters may be assured that we did not tell Liaison the true

reason for our request.

They were told that it sometimes

interfered with physical surveillance. Liaison) in turn

the same request to the appropriate contact in the traffic

police, using the explanation that their surveillance team

the sign removed.

Fold O. Hahlange

Jesse R.

GARDALPHE

Distribution:

Orig. & 2

Chief, WHD

REFERENCE TO

Distribution:

Chrono

OS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HUMA - 41240

CLASSIFICATION

S

E C R: ET

OFFICE

WH-1

OFFICE STRABOL i

C 254/ COC

402

DATE

13207

15490

MA 15: 220401

DATE

5 November 1901

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-122/3

03

COORDINATING

EXT EXT.

98 6954

'"'OFFICER'S MAME

Sarger: (Telecord)

AN

35

37

WHIs

9AV.

OFFICE STABOA

AC/wH/1

RELEASING

DATE

OFFICER'S SIGMATURE

15007 187 a C Lau 102010

---

