# 104-10054-10039

## Page 1

1104-10054-10039

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

(When Filled. In)

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS REPORT

057303

SECTION A

1. NAME

GENERAL

XX

(Last)

(First)

GOODPASCURE, Ann I.

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Operations Officer

B. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CAREER

RESERVE

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See instructiong - Section C)

SPECIAL (Specify):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

28 February 1964

SECTION B

W - Weak

(Middle)

2. DATE OF BIRTH

3. SEX

4. GRADE

28 Nov 1918

F

GS-13

D

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT 8. CURRENT STATION

DDP WH 3

Mexico City

10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT

TEMPORARY

INITIAL

XX

ANNUAL

REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR

REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL (Specily):

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From- to~)

1 January - 31 December 1963

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category

requires

positiva remodial action.

The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing or

probation, to reassignment. or to separation.

Describe action taken or propasad in Saction C.

A - Adeguate

Performance meets all raquirements. It is entirely sotisfactory and is charocterized neither by deficiency nor

excellence.

P - Proficient

S - Strong.

O - Outstanding

Porformonce is more than satisfactory, Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

Performanca is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of

others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most importent specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the

manner in which amployes performs EACH specific duty.

Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty.

All employees

with supervisory responsibilities MUST bo rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employeus supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. " LIEMPTY Project - Working with Jeremy L. NARCOS (regular

ATIN

ETTE

contact and case office:) supervises work of three photo bases operating against

Soviet Embassy; processes take; identifies Soviets and intelligence function.

alternate contact with staff agent.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

RATING

LETTER

Liaison with Legal Attache, Army, Navy and Air on routine CE

cases. Assists COS and DCOS on non-specialized cases as they occur.

SPECIFIE DUTY NO. 3

processor.

Contact for Orville HORSFALL (staff agent), translator,

Contact for Arnold F. AREHARI, LIENVOY.

Contact for Jeremy K.. BENADUM, LITEMPO.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

Alternate photographer, flaps and seals technician.

SPECIFIC

DUTY NO.S

PATtER

RATING

Case officer on some CE

cases.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

Generally responsible for preparation of operational briefing

papers, charts, and photographic presentations for COS briafing of visiting

firemar

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Toke into account avarything about the employee which influencas his effectivenass in his currens position such as per-

formanca af

spacifie duties, productivity, conduct on job,

cooperativangss, partinent

personni. traits or habits, and

§pasticular limitations or talents.

Based on

your knowlodge of amployes's oyarall performanca

during

the rating pariod,

place the litter in the rating box sorissponding to the statement which most recurately reilects his level of performance.

9 MAR 1964

4-04" 45

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS ADITIONS.

SECRET

GROUP T

dumnarading and

RATING

LETTER

03302

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled I:)

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

ordice engine tea huggestion e de improved in our eire keep give proper ended heriniori him en

State suggestions mode for improvement of work performance,

on foreign ionguage competence, if required for current position.

basis for determining future persornel action. Monner of performance of monageria

Ace if anager on super son in be dovide o, i

appliceet.

This officer has continued to perform all dutigg assigned -- and they are

varied -- from the pickup of reels, transcriptions, CE case studies to photography,

flaps and seals, in an outstanding manner.

This officer,

when replaced, will need two or three "repläcements"

unless a most unusual person is sent to replace him.

SECTION D

DATE

IL January 1964

2.

MONTHS

EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN

UnDer v1 7022241981

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

/S/ Ann La

Goodpasture

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXELiNATION

DATE

I: Januäry 1964

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Chief of Station

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

/S/ Winston L. Scott

3.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Although this employee is a fine intelligence officer end has worked

very hard for the Chief of Station, Mexico City, I consider the rating

of Outstanding in all specific duties and for over-all performence to be

excessively nigh. Reporting on the activities she supervises has been

as good as that from other Mexico City operations but is still not up

to DDP standards.

While most of the projects she is concerned with are

handled with proper cost consciousness, at least one of them, the LITEMPO

Project, is not.

The agents are paid too much and their activities are

not adequately reported. This has been called to the station's attention.

DATE

4 March 1964

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

C/WH/3

6mh l. Whitten

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

Off

RECOMMENDATION FOR HONOR

OR MERIT AWARD

(Submit in triplicate - see HR 20-37)

SECTION A

EMP

SER.

057303°

NAME OF

PERSON RECOMMENDED

Goodpasture,

Ann

PERSONAL DATA

(Last.First,Middle)

Lorene

3. POSITION TITLE

Ops

Officer

GS - 113

GRADE

6.

OFFICE OF

DDO/CI

ASSIGNMENT

7. OFFICE EXT. (If h93)

STATION.

Staff

HEADOUARTERS

FIELD

(Specify location)

HOME ADDRESS (No., St., City, State, ZIP Code)

10.

HOME

PHONE

11. CITIZENSHIP AND HOW ACOUIRED

4200 Cathedral Ave., Wash., D.C.

244-1657

U.s.

Birth

12.

RECOMMENDED AWARD

IF RETIRING. DATE OF RETIREMENT

POSTHUMOUS

Career Intelligence Medal

23

October

1973

15. NAME OF NEXT OF KIN

16. RELATIONSHIP

[17. HOME ADDRESS (NO., St., City, State, ZIP Code)

18. HOME PHONE

C. H. Goodpasture

Livingston, Tenn.

RECOMMENDATION FOR AWARD FOR HEROIC ACTION OR ACCEPTANCE OF HAZARD

19. WERE YOU AN EYEWITNESS TO THE ACT

PERSONNEL IN IMMEDIATE VICINITY OR WHO ASSISTED IN ACT OR SHARED IN SAME HAZARD:

20. FULL NAME

23. OFFICE

OF ASSIGNHENT

•IST ANY OF THE ABOVE PERSONS GIVEN AN AWARD OR RECOMMENDED FOR AWARD FOR PARTICIPATING IN ACT:

20. FULL NAME

25.. AWARD RECOMMENDED

CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH ACT WAS PERFOPMED:

26- LOCATION

•27. INCLUSIVE DATES

29- PREVAILING GEOGRAPHIC CONDITIONS AND OBSTACLES ENCOUNTERED

28- TIME OF DAY

30. DATES FOR WHICH AWARS RECOMMENDED

31.

ASSIGNMENT COMPLETED

32. NOW IN SAME OR RELATED ASSIGUMENT

YES

NO

NO

SECTION C

RECOMMENDATION FOR AWARD FOR ACHIEVEMENT, SERVICE, OR PERFORMANCE

13.

YOU HAVE PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE

DEFICIAL ASSIGNMENT OF PERSON RECOMMENDED AT TIME OF SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE

INO

Headquarters

35, COMPONENT OR STATION (Designation and location)

DDO/WH

36. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ASSIGNED POSITION

Operations officer completing 30 years of service in the Agency and

its predecessor organizations.

37. INCLUSIVE DATES FOP. WHICH RECOMMENDED

1947 - 1973

38.

X.

ASSIGNMENT COMPLETED

PERSONNEL WHO ASSISTED CR

CONTRIBUTED

SUBSTANTIALLY

TO

THE

SERVICE

40. FULL NAME

41. ORGN. TITLE

Mr. Winfield Scott

39. NOW IN SAME OR RELATED ASSIGNNENT

OR

PERFORMANCE

42..

GS-18

OFFICE. OF ASSIGNMENT

Mexico City

LIST ANY OF THE ABOVE PERSONS GIVEN AN AWARD OR RECOMMENDED FOR AWARD FOR PARTICIPATING IN THE PERFORMANCE

AA. FULL NAME

45. TYPE OF AWARD

Mr. Winfield Scott

FORM 600 USE PREVIOUS EDITION

9- 68

SECRET

lama tons

03303

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

MARRATIVE DESCRIPTION

SECTION D

Award for Heroic Action or Acceptance of Hazard: Was act voluntary? Describe why act was outstanding, and if it was more than normally expected.

Explain, why, and how.

If an aerial or marine operation, describe typo and position of craft, crew position of individual, and all unusual circumstances.

Indicate results of the act.

Enclose unclassified citation.

Award for Achievement, Sarvice, or Períormance: State charocter of service during period for which recommended. (Give complete description of admin-

istrativo, lechnical, or professional duties and responsibilities if not covered in Section C; include dotes of assignment and relief.)

Why was this outstanding when compared to others of like grade and experience in similar positions or circumstances?

appropriate, include production records and assistance rendered by other persons or units.

What obstocies were encountered or overcome? Indicate re-

sults of achierement, service, or performance.

Include reference to Fitness Reports, Letters of Commendation, or other documentation already on file which

Miss Goodpasture

sick leave since July 1972 awaiting

medical retirement in October 1973.

She is a charter member of the Agency,

having entered on duty from OSS and its successor organizations.

is highly distinguished by virtue of consistently strong to out-

standing performance, all of which is fully documented.

In addition to

several staff and desk assignments, Miss Goodpasture

served in support of the successful coup against the communist government

in Guatemala in 1954 and

completed tours of duty

in Bombay, Monterrey and

Mexico City.

career occurred during

service

she served as a

"trouble-shooting"

case officer for the incomparable Winfield Scott

(deceased), who was then the Chief of Station.

master, described Miss Goodpasture over these years

"intelligent,

working, conscientious,

versatile, valuable and unquestionably one of the

CI/CE officers he ever had the privilege of working with."

Goodpasture's fitness reports were totally consistent with this

appraisal, and were characterized by outstanding ratings.

assignment prior to acute medical problems, she worked for the CI Staff

(October 1970-0ctober 1971),

earning the following remarks from her

supervisor:

...I venture to rate her overall performance, thirty years

Outstanding.

Ann is one of the tough warp-threads on which

this organization

weakened.

and when she retires the fabric of this organi-

The reviewing official agreed with the above

and recorded his hope

that Miss Goodpasture get the official Agency recogni

so richly deserves for the many years she hacomade substan sire

ENCLOSURES (List individually) IF ORIGINATOR IS NOT

AN EYEWITNESS OR DOES NOT HAVE PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE ACI

PERFORMANCE, ATTACH AFFIDAVITS OF EYEWITNESS OR INDIVIDUALS HAVING PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE

17- RECOMMENDATION

48. TITLE AND SIGNATURE OF

MENDATION

EMPLOYEE MAKING RECOM-

•David A! P

Phillips

Chief, WH

Division

SECTION

F.

50.

RECOMMENDATION FORWARDED THROUGH OFFICIALS CONCERNED FOR THEIR INFORMATION

TITLE AND SIGNATURE

D

HEAD OF.

-CAREER

SERVICE

(Career service of nomince)

See Item #52

TITLE AND SIGNATURE

DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF CAREER SERVICE

52.

See Item #52

AND SIGNATURE

OPERATING COMPONENT

Deputy Director

for Operations

SECRET

149. DATE

21 JUN 1973

DATE

DATE

DATE

2 AUR 1973

---

## Page 5

14-00000

RECOMMENDATION FOR CAREER INTELLIGENCE MEDAL (CON'D)

SECTION D

contribution to the Clandestine

Service.

By virtue of unusual

dedication to duty which over a

period of several years,

included consistently

long hours,

superior performance and

tangible achievement in sensitive

natters of national security, Miss Goodpasture has excelled

as an

operations officer.

She was the case officer who was

responsible

for the identification of Lee Harvey Oswald

in his dealings with the Cuban Embassy in Mexico.

She was

also responsible for other important and successful opera-

tions against Soviet penetration efforts

directed toward

the United States from

Mexico.

She would rather work than

rest, and when she works, she always impresses her super-

fors with her mastery over her craft.

thirty years

Miss Goodpasture has given unstintingly of herself

to

the cause and mission of this Agency; the Agency owes her

formal

acknowledgement of appreciation.

---

