104-10112-10171 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

ce QE DENTIAL -

5 wwe

3 February 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE svcons Hot E Mere

SUBJECT: CROZIER, Ross L.
#112 569

1. The captioned Subject is a former Career
Agent of WH Division who served with the Agency
from 1954 to November 1963. His affiliation with
the Agency was completely covert. During the late
1950's, he developed personal relationship with Che
Guevera, Fidel Castro and other Cuban revolutionaries.
The Subject's knowledge of those Cuban leaders became
a matter of public record in newspapers, periodicals
and so forth at that time. As far as it is known,
the Subject's Agency affiliation was never disclosed
publicly.

2. Following his employment termination, the
Subject obtained a job in the Office of the Postal
Inspector, U. S. Post Office Department, Washington,
D. C. That is his current employment.

3. On 14 January 1969, the Subject called me
in EAB and advised that he had been contacted by a
representative of the 20th Century Fox Movie Firm
regarding the forthcoming release of a film on Che
Guevera. He explained that the movie firm wanted to
discuss the following two matters to him:

a. how much and how well the Subject
actually knew Guevera and what contribution
the Subject could make to the film with regard
to Guevera's personality, character traits,
habits, and so forth;

b. what contribution the Subject could
make with regard to the promotion and marketing
of the film.

4. The Subject stated that he was scheduled to
meet with the movie firm representatives on 16 January
1969. He said he had no intention of acknowledging
his former Agency employment affiliation or furnishing

4
3

Boat otoaste,
ae a ee ee a . = ata rte rant era BE A



wet, @ WHHLENIIAL =@

oo

CROZIER, Ross L. Page 2
#112 569

any further information attributable to the Agency.
In that connection, the Subject explained that the
reason he contacted the Agency was to obtain approval.
to use the cover he was given during his Agency
ctivities in the late 1950's, to wit:

f He said as far as ne Knew,
that cover was never blown and it is now defunct. I
told the Subject I would check the matter out and let
him know.

5. Following a review of the Subject's file,
I co-ordinated this matter with the following
individuals:

Fred Bucci, WH/SO

Davis Phillips, WH/COG

Tom Strange, 2

Joseph Goodwin, Assistant to the DCI

6. On 15 January 1959, I oe
gave him permission to use the )
cover in dealing with the movie film people. Further,

I requested that he not make any attribution to the
Agency, or furnish any operational or classified material.
The Subject stated he understood that and indicated that
he did not intend to damage or embarrass the Agency in

any way. Then, I told the Subject as a matter of personal
curiosity, I would appreciate hearing from him as to how
he "made out".

7. On 27 January 1969, I contacted the Subject and
he advised that he had met on 16 January 1969 with a
Mr. Marshall of the 20th Century Fox Movie Firm, New
York City. Apparently, their talk was exploratory and
I gathered rather brief. According to the Subject, Mr.
Marshall left with a,"We'll call you; don't you call us",
understanding. The Subject indicated strong doubts that
anything further would develop in this matter.

8. On 27 January 1969 I advised Mr. Bucci of what
I had learned from the Subject and he stated that he
would pass it on to Mr. Phillips. No further action
is contemplated and this memorandum is sub itted for
record Pee iil ;

Christos S< Gika:
Employee Activhyy Branch

CONFIDENTIAL

