# 104-10103-10270

## Page 1

104-10103-102701

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

5e+62

Summary of Contacts with

AMHIP/1 and AMLASH/L

HELSINKI:

1. Events of 30 July 1962:

AHIP arrIved in Helsinks on 30 July 1962.

He called HBt INCH

according to plan, and after his second call (due to his hotel porter's

abystmal understanding of English), Tallucc

established contact. with

AMWHIP without further difficulty. The meeting took place in the

restaurant of his hotel, the Vaakuna, and later in his room. We had

not at this time located AMASH, so the time was spent briefing AMWHIP

on the local scene, and on his conduct with AMLASH when they wet. The

meeting lasted about one and a half hours.

Mate.

Later the same day we called AMWHIP at his hotel to report

no progress in locating AMASH. Feeling it advisable to keep AMWHIP

occupied, we took him out to dinner at Fisketorpet, located in the

suburbs of Helsinki. The evening lasted until 1200, terminating with a

drink at the root bar of the vaakuna. turing the six hours, we had an

opportunity to explain carefully to AMWHIP that in order for us to help

his friend, AMLASH must be willing to follow our directions and agree to

certein conditions (already egreed anon hy interested Has. parties).

AMWHIP, realized that this was necessary, and agreed with our ideas. However,

rached to AMLASH, and will continue to look upon him in the most

benevolent and subjective manner. This being rather far removed fron our

intended approach to, and opinion of AMLASH. sAMWHIP will require handling

of a close nature in order that he fully understands and is aware of our

90A

Lind 1

Excuts is

---

## Page 2

3

position in this matter

We closed the meeting by telling him that we

wald have an effort made in the noring to locate AMIASH, and that he

nightias well relax, sightesee if he wished, and that we would be in touch

with hin at intervals during the day

2. Events of 31 July: 1962:

our efforts to locate MAsH through UNRUMBLR/2 proved to be

Theadore TWinterpret, mo was handling UNRUMBLR/2, said.

that the latter tried his best, but had not been able to do us any good,

The Station also reported that its contacts had been unable to aid us.

he reported to AMRIP the fact that we had not located AMASH, and suggested

that we have dinner together, to which he agreed.

We met AMWHIP at 2100

at our hotel, the Kamp, and proceeded to the Royal Restaurant for dinner.

+ AWHIP was obviously getting on pins and needles because we had not found

his friend. He suggested that we call up the Cuban Festival delegation,

or try some hotels that evening. We persuaded him that 1t was not the

best idea jet; and to give other people more time to locate him. He

agreed, but kept coming up with ideas all evening for ways to locate AMLASH.

• He suggested that AMLASH liked night clubs, and that after dinner we could

perhaps try several. We agreed, more to placate hin that with any thoughts

of success.

We tried several, the Brunsparken and the Theater Crill,

both of which were filled with drinking Finns, but no signs of AMLASH. The

Finns, engaging in their national pastime, obviously irritated AMWHI, and

efter heing puched around in the Incater Grill for an hour, hu said thât

he thought this was a waste of time. We agreed, grabbed a taxi and went

home. During the evening, we told ANWHIP that tomorrow morning, if nothing

had turned up, we would start by calling the better hotels in town ourselves,

and try this rather laborious method to locate AMLASH.

We agreed to meet

Excuse a

---

## Page 3

between 2 and 1p o'clock at our hotel:

3. Events of 1 August 1962.

AWHIP arrived at our hotel at 0945 on I August, and we ret

to our room

o telephone Securing an outside line, our stend began

to telephons:

de decided to try the local "pinch hotels first, the Kleas

Korkid, and the Torni. AWHTP had no luck with the Klaas Kerkel, but when

he called th

oral, he was told that AMÄSH was there, and was connected

with roon lo coi. A Spanish speaking man (who was later identified as

the newly apposited Cuban Diplomatic Representative to Finland) answered

the phone in if and sald that AMLASH was in the shower, and call back

later if 1t raz important. AMWHTP Teft a messege thet bọ rao from Mexico:

and that he, "Carlos", would call back. During the break, we instructed

him to be carcel on the telephone, and to talk as if the opposition was

Listening:

Is sas" just, to be casual, greet AMLASH, arrange to see him,

saying that is ras in Eürope on brisiness in Scandinavia, France and Siritzerland;

and that her is in Helsinki that AMASH was attending the Festival, he

had decides "s, top over and contact him. When AMLASH answered the phone,

AMWHIP's less it up, caution was abandoned, and he was off at a rapid

rate in spacid. AMLASH said that he would be right over to see ainte

In hiss joct t he Vaakuna. We briefed AMWHIP once more on being careful,

and shous? LoRd to the door. We arranged to have AMWHIP call us when

he could = *4 office, urging him once more to be careful and discreet.

We hope te at seen. It was later learned that finding AMASH in this

notel: root 84 ure good fortme, as he was just using this room to take.

a shower, It he was still residing in the quarters of the comon delegates.

320

:-3-

I.

---

## Page 4

AWHIP talked to AMASH for at least seven hours, from about

1000 in the morning until approximately. 1700 the same evening. When AM/HIP

called us at 1730, he presented us with the fact that he had convinced.

AMASH to talk tith us, and for this purpose, he had arre

¿ed.

meeting that same evening for approximately 1930. We would have preterted

to talk longer with AWHIP about. AMLASH's reactions, but time did not

permit. We arranged a dinner for 2100 at "The White Lady", a restaurant

some way from the center of tows, and succeeded in obtaining a private

dining room, a practice pot uncommon in this Station recommended restaurant,

as it is often used by businessmen to have private dinners and afterwards,

business discussions.

We arrived at the White Lady first, arranged for the dinner, and

awaited AMWHIP and AMASH, who arrived at 2110 by taxi. Although AMWHIP

had suggested to us that the discussions should be merely devoted to

getting acquainted the first evening, AMLASH commenced almost immediately

into a discussion of his feelings and, his position concerning cuba today..

As reported in our cable, (Hels 1609) AMLASH was quite intense, and showed

the strein of his unexpected meeting with AMWHIP. Although obviously

under emotional strain, AMLASH presented his feelings in a relatively calm

matuer, and was gives in iscussing them throughout the neal. He cada he

was considering not going back to Cuba, but after talking to AMWHIP, he

felt that if he could do something really significant for the creation of

a new Cuba, he was interested in returning to carry on the fight there.

He said he was not interested in risking mus life for auy shalt undertaking,

but that if he could be given a really large part to play, he would use

himself and several others in Cuba whom he could rely upon.

These he said

SUEDET

-4-

---

## Page 5

included to majors (one of which AMHIP later reported vas a militia

coumander in the center part of the island), two captains, and several

others whon AMLASH said he could trust, but whom he would note name

MLASt said he bad had plans to blow up an off refinera

asthetient

the continuing existence.of

a semblence of normal functioning in Cuba;

depended upona continuing supply of petroiem, supplies of wich, as we

know; are at a critical stage today. He also wanted to plan the execution

of Carlos Rodriguez and the Soviet Ambassador, and also to eliminate ridel,

by execution if necessary. He feels that if Fidel is eliminated, it would

be much easier to effect a take-over. (We listened for the most part, but

at this point tried to emplain to AMASH that men like Rodriguez could easily

be replaced by Moscow, and that the killing of the Soviet Ambassador, would

have only the briefest effect on the Soviet contral of Cuba.) AMLASH was

not too interested in listening at this point, and continued by saying that

if he could achieve all these actions, plus others, in ore master stroke,

a take-over, during the ensuing confusion, would be much facilitated.. He

did not feel that Raul or the would be able to rally the people in sufficient

time to prevent

opposition forces from forning. His arguments and pians hai

many flaws, but AMWHIP. could not help admiring (to himself) AMLASH's

professed desire for vigorous and, hepefully, effective actions, designed

to alter the situation in no uncertain terms. While we were making no

conmittments or plans, we pointed out to AMASH that schemes like he envisioned

certainly had their place, but that a lot of coordination, planning, information-

collection, etc., were necessary prerequisites to ensure the value and success

of such plans. AMASH said he agreed with this, but we weren't too sure just

how muce this argument AMASH was willing, or amla be wiling to buy.

Court 1

P w.

SATI

PRET

---

## Page 6

AMLisH made it clear during the discussions that he was completely

against Fidel's use of Soviet help from the first, but he had never envisioned

that even if it here'used, just how ineffective it really would be towards

solying Cabals problems He still reels

sale

the

plight of the lower classes in Cuba, and In any future Cuba, he would stint

Insist on a new deal for them. AMLASH said that although he had not been

etfective In helping the formation of a beneficial new Government in Cuba,

he was now prepared to work towards that end. This time, he said, he

wanted. to look more towards the future, both for his own interests and for

Cuba's. The last time, he said that he thought only as far as the elimination

of Batista, and had not given consideration to planning for a government he

favorey after the fighting was over. We felt that AMASH meant that he was

as much concerned about his (AMLASH's) position In the government and

personal stake in a new Cuba, as he was about arything else.: It is our

impression that AMLASH feels that he did not get his share of the spoils

or power fron the Castro regime, in proportion to his contribution against

Batista. AMLASH is a complicated personality.

It is' difficult to fairly

judge, at this time, AMASH's degree of concern for a truly revolutionized

Cuba for the people's benefit, vs his concern to see a new government in

Cuba in which he gets just recognition. This does not necessarily mean

that AMASH wants high political office, but he does want credit for his

efforts and the resultant power and prestige among his countrymen.

In addition to his concern for the manner in nich the sovíets are:

using Cuba for their own designs in latio America, AMASH, i8 worried about

the extent to which Castro is using. the Soviet technique of capturing the

minds of the joung people and the mass propaganda efforts against the masses.

Trail

Exclares i: a

---

## Page 7

2777

in lucks certain that in a couple of years; the young people will be completely

mil Irrevocably won over to Cástro, and that the masses will begin to believe

the Intonse ants American, anti-West propaganda to which they are subjected,

ars AMASH's, fears, about the Castro st

pung minds is hasiconcern thet, the USA will begin to consider a status

win for Cuba, and In the event of any intense and successful anti-regime

nullvity, such as he plans, and which looks as if it might depose the regime,

mens vin withdray ite rupport fron ouch efforts to the lace of serlous

Iraats fron the Soviets. Although AMASH did not say it.in so many words,

I, was apparent Iron the discussions that AMLAS" would prefer ta be able to

luce Cuba without any outside support (and by inference, obligations), but

lid is a realist enough to concede that any efforts to overthrow Castro.

uat have the support of PRIME. He is, therefore, willing to enter into:

# scussions with a representative (s) of PBPRIME towards this end.

AMLiS agreed to meet in Paris for the purpose of further debriefings

wild to give any information in any field which he has. He is also most

11111n8 to discuss any plans which may lead to an overthrch of the present.

wivernment. AMLASH stated many times, however, during the course of the

seidtInes, that he was only interested in involving himself in a plan-of

wignificant action, and which was unwy isigueù in achieve rapidly his desire

le) hely Cube. Fe, told AWHIP later after we had left the meetings, that

la was afraid that: PBPRIME would continue to pursue its present course,

that of providing noney and ideas: but no ACTION!? AMASH was also most

wlamant about not becoming involved in any way with the Cuban refugee

strolos and organizations in Miani. He. said that he feels these are still

1ld same people who left-Cuba, i.e., willing to wait for the chance to return

and "sain pursue, their ony interest, that of making money. He also said

---

## Page 8

he felt that the Cubans there were completely penetrated by Castro informants,

and that for them to know of his cooperation with PBPRIME; would be the same

as telling Castro, and thus his future would end against the Wall! We

assured hin that madman security vould be practiced, as far as these people

vere concerned. He also does not wish to trust or be involved with; any

contract cubans. Only de: paramas does he wish to deal. (Along thie line,

AMHT stated that he did not think It advisable to reveal any of these

negotiations to AMCONCERT/I, whon AWHIP has khan for many years and 1e

quite friendly, but whom he does not feel can keep a secret of this nature.)

This meeting terminated at 0030 on 2 August. The three participants.

took a taxi together back to torn'.: AMWHIP and AMLASH stopped off at a local

night cluò, leater) Grillen, while we continued on to our hotel:

No ircidents:

of a security nature were observed, and it was felt that the meeting was

held without the kncwledge or observation of the opposition.

•4. Meeting of 2 August 1962.

We met with AWHIP in his hotel room (No. I42 at the Vaakuna) at

1700 hours on 2 August. We discussed the events ard talks of the preceding

evening for some time. At approximately 1800, AMLASH arrived, greeted

us affably, and joined us for & drink. AMLASH used this meeting to re-:

state his position curcerning his desire for participation in a reaily

significant action against the Castro regime. Having decided by this time

that further discussions and debriefings of

AMIASH should take place wit

a Spanish-speaking C/O, we outlined the idea to meet for such a purpose in

Paris.. AMASH did not, like the idea of too many nomle being sunro af his

cooperation with PBPRIME, but agreed that it would be best in order to

allow himself to express his ideas and plans better; and to be able to provide:

us with his information in the greatest possible detail.'

SE

---

## Page 9

We persuaded ANHIR and AMiASH that it would be best not to have

further meetings with them in Helsinki; but that we could continue our talks

In greater safety in Stockholm and Paris. They agreed. AMASH also said.

that he felt that he shoutant

Do mach

more

elsinka

vas beginnint nor to makoysome publio appearanced, and his presence vas no

es tadt shed to everyone a the city." Incidentally, prior to thursday,

2 August, AlASt had purposely, refrained from making any public appearances

at the festival becausd) he and the other bubens had been share of the

Asps coup and their announced intentions, and (2) AMAS ald not feel

very disposed to play the "public Relations" man fron Cuba and espouse, the

"peace and friendship nonsensel, as he called it. However, AMLASH also said

that he felt that he had better perform this role to sone extent, as it was

expected of him by fidel, and he did not wish to provide any unnecessary

chances for unsatisfactory reports to be sent back home concerning his lack

of cooperation with the cuban delegation. In making the arrangements for

& Paris meeting and further discussions, AMLASH said, in response to the

question, that it would be quite normal for him to be in Paris, äs he had

already cleared this with Fidel, with whom, he remarked caustically, ore

had to clear everything these days. He then expressed the idea that he

would like to return io Faris, via Siocknolm, and at milf's suggestion,

apend a ser days there fust relang. From there, or Copenhagen; he would.

return to Prague. for two days ät most,

in order to pick up his luggage,.

then come as soon as possible to Paris, mere, he intended to visit a

hospital or two, as agreed upon with Fidel, and spend a total of at least

a week there. He said that if he was to return to Cuba to begin his

efforts; he did not wish to be away from Cuba any longer than necessary.

SECIET

---

## Page 10

(He has, it is noted, a sense of wigency in begiming action against the

regime as soon as possible.) AMHIP told us later that AMASH also was

interested in Par american Mant-based stewardess, whom he would heve

come over to stay with him. AM HIP, sugges

i guestet no a wait he than

thoughtit

stewardess might be connected with PBPRIME." He based this apparently on

a remark intch the stewardess made concerning AlAst's political frame of

mind last year. We answered that as far as we knew there was no basis. for

AWWHIP's thoughts along this line.) AWHIP wil try to get the stewardess

full name for us.

meeting arrangements for Stockholm and Helsink vere laid on at

this meeting AMLASH felt he had to stay until the end of the Festival for

cover purposes. Since AMHIP had already acciaentally run into several

people he lew, it was agreed that he should leave town for Stockholm in

the near future. We would remain behind until AM.ASH left, serving as an

mergency contact in the event of change in AMASH's plans. It was arranged

to meet AMLASH if absolutely necessary, at either 1200 or 1800 each day

at a given restaurant in the center of the city. Normal security seasures

for the "emergency" meeting were laid on. In Stockholm, meeting arrangements

for Paris will be established. AMWHIP departed Helsinki 5 August ard is

presumably stavine, at the Paláre Hatet in Stognore, is the sale anangadita

for acconnodations for AMASH there. We will follow AlLASE to Stockholm.

5. Helsinki Meetings between A'WHTP/1 and Fallucci.

ANWHIP and Fallucci were in public together only three times for

any length of time. Other neetings fore held in titi respeciave hotel rooms.

One breakfast weeting (the 5th of August) was held in the near-deserted.

-10-

---

## Page 11

dining room of; the Vaakuna Hotel at 1030. AWHIP and Fallucci met at least.

once a day during the sojourn in Helsinki: ARLIP used the name William

Thomson, as instructed, when calling HBFINCH to make initial contact.

There were no incidents of a security nature observed during any of theser

meetings

6 Other Youth Festival Targets.

This area covered by cables Hels 1584 and Hels 1609. The best

and, actually, only possibility among the participants was Jose Venegas.

However, both AMLASH and AMHIP did not want to become involved with him

as they felt that this, in both their cases, might compromise their

interests in AMASH's returning to. Cuba.

AMWHIP felt, for example, that

Venegas would almost certainly connect his presence here with an attempt to

do sortething with AMLASH. AMLASH also felt that he did not want to disclose"

any indications of his real sympathies to Tenegas, if he (AMASH) were going

to return to Cuba.

Without doing this, it would be difficult to get any

reactions or opinions from Venegas, thought AMLASH. Venegas, it is felt

by AMLASH, might very possibly be counted on at a later date if this was:

desirable. An approach could then be worked out at that time.

As reported, AMASH came to the Festival as a "special delegate,"

after his request to Fidel was approved, AMAsH claimed to pidel that he

was fatigued and sick and needed a good rest in Furope. The Festival

provided the excuse, Fidel bit the bait, and AMLASH got to Europe to see

AMP, his original intention. AMulP felt that this i a logical end

honest explanation. It is interesting to note that neither the local

service, u/2, or any of the Cuban delegates he asked, could determine the

whereabouts of AMASH. It is perhaps reasonable to assume that the Cúbans

were told not to tell of his presence to anyone not from their immediate

delegation.

T SEC

---

## Page 12

7. AM/HIP's Role in AMLASH Talks.

AKHIP has been most helpful and cooperative in establishing

the initial contacts with AlIASH, and he undoubtedly does have mich

influence over AMLASH: AMLASH also trüsts AMWHIP explicitly, as evidenced

by his remark to us that AMWHiP was the only one whom he felt tha

could fully trust and to whom he could speak openly. Of course, he dia

speak openly at lengtn to is at the behest of AWHIP, but it is also

obvious that he does not tell us everything. ANWHTP has given good advice?

in the handling of AMLASH, but, as he has a tendency to interpret AMLASH's

renarks and feelings subjectively, and to attempt to guide us a bit too

much, it might be wise to eliminate in later portions of the talks in Paris:

With a Spanish-peaking Go, taid shumd not ve too difficult to do, and

without alienating AMWHIP. AMVIP has no clandestine training to speak of,.

as evidenced by his actions in this case. However, to his eredit; he

responds readily to directions in this area, and follows rather well suggestions

for adding to the security of the meetings. His remark about the on

adrisability of keeping his old friend ACONCERT out of the operation or

from any knowledge thereof, is gratifying. AMWHIP also has gently explained

to us, that while he is a Cuban at heart and loves the Cubans, they simply

cannot be trusted to keep secrete among dry ca their fiends nho, fur nu.

real tested reasons, they consider safe and discreet. As a general

statement, we feel that AMWHIP is a good security risk operationally, and

that with more exposure to the game, will become a good and useful asset

under almost any circumstance. He is, however, somewhat subconsciously

subjective about his evaluations of AMLASH. He is completely honest, and is

using a considerable amount of his own money, not to mention time, in this

peration.

We only hope his faithin a

• justifiea.

-12.

---

## Page 13

8. Evaluation of and Comments about AMASH.

Our'initial comments forwarded in cable Hels 16C9 remain unchanged.

We have seen too little of, and cannot converse in the native language of

MAsH, to make any strongly valid assessment of him to datese Ta: thei

second meetine with aist, he ves considerably ne gied than tane

fifst, but just as intense. about his convictions. or seemingly so. AMASH

stited that, having decided to return to Cuba, he would enrole in an

officers refresher type course at Matanzas in an effort to renew olde

Arty contacts, re-assert his position as a major in the Revolutionary Armys

and attempt, to re establich some recognition and follorens in Arty and our

Gatemment circles.

For the sake vi completeness, we repeat our comments regaraing

AMLASH from Heis 1609:

He appears capable of rash, thoughtless, violent

action under the

or frustration.

For exam , vocatioe, tense etta tions it

to us that last yeạr

during a period of dejection and frustration, he had con-

templated suicide.. Although AMASH appeared to concede.:

some validity to.our argurents for planring and for

carefully prepared actions, we feel that he will present

difficult control and directional problems in ary op

situation

He himself stated several times. that he

is not the type to sit tight, out prefers solutions

• to problems by violent, positive actions. AMLASE

showed the strain of not trusting anyone. He was according.

overjored to ses him, and talked ters very.

mich about many, many subjects. It is not pissials

to comment at this time about AMLASH's capacity Eor

loyality to friends or causes; nor his willingness to

see a job through. However, AMIHIP assures us tiat

When AMLASH says he'll do something, he will. We

don't know at this point.

AMWHIP also told us that in discussions subsequent to our meetings

With AMLASH, he expressed the hope that, "Bill" and his friend. (s) in Paris

will have a really fruitful, forceful idea and plan of action for him to

follow. Othernse, he said he light drop the viole Luea and not go back,

Excis: 4

---

## Page 14

but to forget the whole problen, leave the Cuban fold quietly, and work

in Paris or elsewhere, forgetting completely Cuban problems and Cuban

politics

A 21s0 told us on suday that

ANTASH said he wanted to 6o

back and fight.

YAMIH

was sure,

that he would defect, period. AMASH told AWHIP that he could not see

the point of making a statement regarding defection' and the state of affairs,

in Cuba, and then accepting a dole in Miami. Nor could he see any use in

propaganda efforts in Latin America or Europe, Later, after our talks

with him, AMLASH told AMWHIP a little different story, live A that hend

muld not want to make a public defection statement, because of the.

probable repercussions against his friends in Cuba for no good reason.

This area of thinking needs to be examined at length in Paris. A Spanish-

speaking C/a might well do the trick.

•STOCKHOLM:. •

A V1S

ile.

g. Travel to Stockholm

AMWH. IP

departed Helsinki for Stockholm on LAugust. Both AMWHIP

and AMLASH felt that they had been together enough in Helsinki, AMWHIP

also ran onto a refugee newspaper friend of his in Helsinki who was

quite curious as to why AMPHIP was there, AMASH aparted helsinks in the

afternoon of 7 August; we took the same flight unbeknownst to AMLASH.

No problems were encountered in arriving at Stockholm:: We took the next

bus aftai Allish to the city. Both AMASH and AWHIP stayed at the

Palace Hotel, room 828 and 970, respectively. Talks of a general' nature

were held in our hotel room (the Carlton) and during the several dinners.

It was obvious that AMLASH had much on his mind. He can return to the

---

## Page 15

subject of Cuba at anytime, with a question, suggestion, or comment upon

it, regardless of the context of the general discussion. It was during

the talks in Stockholm that AMWHIP revealed that AMASH had told

Miranse

NaranjO, Revellon, Venegas; and the "May

Valder (, (in Helsinki) that he was seeing AMWHIP. In Helsinkd

also told theravor Domingues to teil Raul that he was going on his

present itinerary, and that he wanted a refresher course in the Army when

he returned home.

COPENHAGEN:

10. Travel to, and Stop. In Copenhagen.

AMLASH and AMWHIP took SAS flight 407 to Copenhagen on the after-

noon of 10 August.

In speaking at length about meeting. In Paris, AMLASH

felt sure that there would be no problem in getting pernission to visit

Paris after returning to Prague. He felt that he better not visit Paris

first, as it might cause some undue interest in Prague Cuban circles

as to way he was away so long. He also had some trouble in getting the Air-

line to approve his side trips to Stockholm and Copenhagen. They wanted

him to fly direct to Prague: from Helsinki. He refused their requests,

and said that he would pay his own way to Stockholm and Copenhagen for

the aifference) if need he, mats he frally had to do, for which Amitp

footed the bill. (perhaps we should later absorb. We felt that this

ability to pay for the extra routing might cause some suspicion among his

colleagues. AMLASH said "no", but we are

not so sure. Perhaps he can tell

win, should they be curious, that milf paid the ball, as all row be

has money and has, in fact, paid bills before for AMLASH during the time

of the Batista regime.) :

SEGRET

÷15-

---

## Page 16

I1. Copenhagen, 10 August 1962:

AMHIP and AMASH arrived as scheduled in Copenhagen and obtained

rooms at the Richnond Hotel. AwHIP phaned HBFINCH as planned and we

I in turn contacted themby phone at the Richmondrat 1ßLS A meeting t

arranged for 2000 at: the bar of the Ternims Hotel, VAfter a drink; the f

party retired to Divan I for dinner. Apparently the spell of iroll,

Danish food and snaps; and beer at the student's inn; Faergekroen (in

Tivol1), served to mellow, AMLASH. He for the first time appeared to talk

to us as a friend, rather than as a PBPRIME representative. During

supper, and for most of the evening, at intervals, AMASH talked about

himself, his thoughts, and problems. The evening was well worth it, in

terms of the rapport and insight gaired.

12. AMLASH's Thoughts and Personality

AMAS feels basically that he would like to live in a world in

peace under an acceptable political system, practicing medicine, thus

giving expression to his desire to heip the less-fortunate people, and from

this to find happiness for himself, sonething he seeks, but which heretofore

has eluded him. "As a young student he got into the struggle against

Batista without thinking much about the future, particularly that it

conta he less then notect. He com fond that the mosing partic te

Cuba, and in particular the Communists, were not about to bring true peace

and contentment to the people, but rather through mismanagement and poor.

planning, had created unnecessary hardships for: the people.. After his

fighting time was ofer for so he theaght,, mmast becano a student again

and leader of the FEU. This did not satisfy him and he sought to leave

politics all together, and return to redacine.

The political climate,

SEGRET

16-

---

## Page 17

however, and the acceptance of AMASH as a military leader by the people

rather than as a doctor (Hello Conglandante! not, Hello Doctor!) forced

AMLASI to reconsider his suture, and to decide that he must fee Cube or

Light-againstishat. he. considers

vinous future for his country and

her people. This time, however, he hopes to make the "operation"!

succeashul land never again subjest the patient to another such ordeal.

Then when he 1s sure that the political and social outlook for the

Cuban people and the country are sound, he would like to try once nore

to enter private life as a doctor. He is not sure, however; that this

i will ever cone about AMTASH was also quite frank, we thought; in hiel

conversation with us concerning his vies on the PBRPIE position visa.

ris Latin America. (And, although he had nothing to say which has not been

said by many before him, they were interesting to hear from a disenchanted

Cuban revolutionary.) He feels that PEPRIME 18 simply not getting "through"

tọ the youth and students of Latin America, as are the Communists, and for

this simple reason alone, the next ten years: (when these students become

the political and economic leaders in Latin America) will see us lose

the struggle for Latin America..

We replied by using the old line that

PBPRIME realizes only too well today that there were serious short comings

la our latin American poldey for a miner ot years and that now ue Aro

doing what we can to correct this. However, it is not our policy (said

with tongue in cheek) to attempt to alter these conditions or influence

future events by going behind the backs of the established goveraments in

the rorious latin Americas countrics. Istead, is Lust tabe the orren

slow, laborious path of working through these goverments; howeyer bad fl

they may be, in our attempts to guide and influence the minds of Latin

SECRET

=17-

---

## Page 18

American youth: AMASH said that he understood why we take this point

of view, but nevertheless, if we intended to win the struggle, we must

do as the Communists do, and disregard the archaic and doomed old line

goveriments in Latin America. We agreed, that this was undoubtedly the

more agressive way to deal with the problen, but that such methods would.

leave us open to the old familiar charges of interference in the internal

affairs of sovereign countries. AMASH eniled and replied that frona

practical viewpoint this didn't nake any difference, for if we dida't

act forcefully and soon; there wouldn't be any opportunities there for us.

to be open to anything! He then cited Venezuela as the next obvious

Conmunist victim and thereby a loss of another opportunity for PBPRIME.

Obviously AMLASH was correct in much of his thinking, but rather thay stand.

ing still with our shoes untied, we gave him the ball by soliciting from

him, as a former student leader and politician, any ideas he might have

for conbating the Communists in the struggle for the minds of Latin

"American youth. He replied that he would be glad at any time to disucss

this problem and to offer what ideas and suggestions he could.

As a result of the discussions of this evening; we felt that

AMLASH now was genuinely interested in getting Cuba out of its present

predicament with the active did uf fohmm. Aion Secued zore Blocere

and interested in discussing his thoughts and problems with us than at

any previous time. He no doubt skinned over in his own mind (or at least

declined to reveal this to us) his record as president of the FEU. The

full story of this period fron his side would be must interesting.

However, we felt that a discussion of this particular subject required the

use of Spanish and the propitious moment

SECRET

÷]8=

---

## Page 19

Asia matter of record, AMLASH stated during the evening that he

had met Algeria's Ben Bella at one time and knows him more than casually.

He felt that the min bears strict watching by the West as a measure of

protecting Its interests in developments in Algeria AMTASHothought

Ben Bella was a clever man, devlous, and ambitious, and not!

ta ben taker

COO]

isterally at his word.

In dealing with AMASH, one trait of his which confronts the c/o

at every tou is his tempermental reactions over points which would

gererally be considered minor.

For example, at one time when we were

discussing the various aspects of AMLASH's future role inCuba, we usedsty

the term "assassinate". The use of this term, we later learned from

ANGRIP and froM AIISH hinself, was most objectionable to the latter, and

he was risibly upset. It was not the act he objected to, but rather merely

the choice of word used to describe it. "Eliminate" was acceptable, but

Lously the term "assassinate" had a distasteful connotation. From

a scussions with AWHIP, 'this lable of "assassin" had been given to

AMLASH after sone of his escapades against Batista supporters in the

pre-Castro era. Another example, which AMWHIP discussed with us, occurred

during a meeting in Mexico City in March 1961, when a KUBARKER said to

AMLASH; "I'm prepared to help you in any way within my power".: According

to AMWHIP, AMLASH later turned to him, shrugging his shoulders in a manner

of saying, "So I need help fron him?". These examples are pointed out

here in ordc to indicato the degree us price and sensivivily ou find's:

in AMLASH, and to note that however tedious this attitude may become to

the C/o, it is, from personal experience, quite necessary to adjust one's

approach accordingly in order to secure AMLASH's maximum cooperation.

Liri

19-

Saad

---

## Page 20

13. Paris Meeting Arrangements:

TASH has been given AlIP's hotel in Paris, Franklin Hotel;

19 Rue Buffault (telephone TRU 6940) AMWHIP will reserve a room there for

also had another contact addressin the form of the office of a jewelen

friend and business contact of AWHIP's; H. B. Rosenblatt, 20 Oite-Ireuised

(Telephone TAI-7438).: Rosenblatt's number has not keen given to AMasi.

In discussing security precautions with AM lt is obvious, that hea

18:10

still is not possessed of a good sense of security by normal clandestine

ops standards,

This, however, can be improved over a period of time.

Note: Subject expressed interest in obtaining

expert instruction in use of silenced-equiped

rifles and in use and handling of plastic

explosives. This can be handled from France

on priority basis, it is felt, after preliminary

discussions in Paris.

PARIS:

14.

Events of 12 August 1962.'

According to prior arrangements with AWHIP and AMLASH, AHIP

would see AMLASH off to Zurich fro Fastrup Airport on i2 August, then

take a late afternoon fjight dom to Paris. As it turned out, however,

AMLASH was able to book a passage on a Fumanian Airlines (Tarom) Flight

to Frague, via last erlin's Schoenieldt Airport. AMHIP later took

the early evening flight to Paris; me took the 1150 AF flight the same

night.

In Paris, AMWHIP took a room (#60) as planned at the Hotel Franklin,

where he remained throughout his stay in Paris. He also booked a room:

for AMLASH. We arrived in Paris at 0145, 16 August, booking a room

(#41) at the Hotel Roblin, 6 Rue ChaTeau-Lagarde (ANJ-5700).

....

Excladet tea cilia:

120.

---

## Page 21

15., Events of 13 August 1962.

On the morning of 13 August, we checked into HBFINCH to discuss

the Paris meetings with peter j. kynngton Thru his good office ve vere

able to arrange for precautionary surves lance or AMWHIP, and AMLASH

obtain use of a Station safehouse, and effect otherrarrangements as

necessary. The cooperation and help of the Paris Station was excellent.

Following this meeting, we went to a small bistro near our hotel, phoned

AwHIP, and arranged for a meeting in our hotel room at 1830;

This meeting took place in our hotel room (#ll) at the Hotel

'Roblin, at 1830. The purpose was merely to meet AwHip and re-assure him

that arrangements for AMLASH's meeting were laid on. We also made

arrangements to give hin his expenses for the trip and account for same

during a meeting the following day. This will permit him to leave for

Milan without delay at the close of our business with AMLASH. He was

getting "nervous", as he called it, and will be glad to get this business

over and done.We agreed. He wanted to remain until the conclusions.of

the talks with AMiASH, however; for he felt that he could be of use in

handling AMLASH. We agreed. He did not, of course, want to be in on

any operational discussions, but

just to be on hand to guide his

tempernatul: "charge".

He was very anxious to meet Wallace A. Growerya in order to

point out to him in advance some of the quirks in AMASH's personality

In talking to us, AWHIP said that a person with the background of

Artist, must be hanulty in a certach hauger sand if done, he with respold.

AMWHIP told us that while he is of course subjective about AMASH, he also

realized that he is of a different background and make-up (flattery?)

than either we or himself, and that in order to get him to produce and

cooperate, the problem must be approached in a certain way. He said

STARET

---

## Page 22

that AMLASH is very proud and independent. He does not want to feel he has

to take help from anyone. AHIP said that this is a rather naive way to

look at it, but ALASH does, and for this reason, one must be careful

not to appear to be buying hima We said that we understood, this, and

wiling to advance our arguments in any manner necessary to get AMASHE

cooperation, but that eventually AMASH must be made to realize that,

though be is of no little Importance to us, he 1s after all, the only one

am riter one and opene

whip continually stressed the point that to work with people

like AMASH it was necessary to have then first accept a person either

by personal contact over a period of time or on the recommendation of a

good friend. He felt that while it was necessary for us to spend sone time

beconing acquainted with AMASH, It also might be necessary for Growery

to go slow at first. This, we said to AMWHIP was all right; up to a point,

but that we felt quite enough time had been spent with AMASH already,

and that the meetings in Paris were going: to get down to business quickly,

and proceed as necessary to conclude business as rapidly as possible.

We felt that AMHIP understood our point.

During this talk, AMWHIP again expressed the feeling that if

Cuba is not retuned to freedom within two years, he was going to set

up business permanently in Paris or Southern California, and forget the

idea of returning. He was obvious moved by the finality of such a decision,

as be is a real cubal patrioi. Or so we believe.

We agreed to contact AMWHTP by telephone at his hotal. at 1200

on 14 August (Tuesday Subsequently a meeting at 1700 in our hotel room.

-22-

11.32345

:4.20

---

## Page 23

16

Events of 1h August 1962.

As agreed, we called AWHIP at his hotel at 1200 on 14 August

and arranged a meeting for 1700 in our hotel room. At the 1700 meeting

ANK TR informed us that, ALASH had arrived as promised from Prague about

noontime and was already miring about a meeting time

the man

from shinsto" AMHIP was told that "the man from Washington", (whon

they in the future called "Jaime" as they could nat readily pronounce

ax overy is trie first name was not able to arrive before that afternoon?

and that a meeting with him could not take place before the 16th. Also;

ATHIP was reminded that he himself had stated that it would be best for

him (AMWHIP) to talk to Jaime first in order to explato AMASH's personality

AMWHIP was unhappy that this meeting could not take place imediaieiy,

but said he would explain the matter to AMLASH.. This meetings it is noted,

took place initially at a small cafe across the street from out hotel,

so that we could firger AWHIP. to two surveillants of the Paris Station,

The two principles then retired to our hotel room for the reminder of the

meeting. We said to AMWHIP that we

would check in with him by phone the

following day and inform him whether there was any chance of Jaime

arriving on that day, the 15th.

At this meeting, AMWHIP was also paia $350.00 io curer hotel

bills for him and AMLASH in Helsinki, Copenhagen and Stockholm.

15. Events of ll August 1962.

He phoned AHIP at his hotel et 1300 to infom him that there...

was no change in plans and that the best we could do was to call him

again that evening. AMHIP said that he would be out all evening;

arrangements were then made that AMWHIP should call us at our hotelrat:

63072

23-1

Excite:

---

## Page 24

2200.

Subsequently, AWHIP did call as agreed, and was informed that he coulg

plan to come to our room tomorron, the loth, at 0900. The hour bothered

him (too early) but he said he could make it.

Later the same evening, Kining ton, crovery and a

met to

discuss plans for the meetings tomorrow, At this meeting Kymington

disclosed that his tean had detected what was believed to be surveilance

of AMWHIP and AMLASH. To be positive he planned to have the meeting the

next day survellled. Grovery agreed to come at 0900 for preliminary talks

with AMWHIP

16.

Events of 16 August 1952.

Growery arrived within five ninutes of appointed time at

our hotel room. AMWHIP arrived later at 1015; apoligizing for his tardiness

(a late evening!). Breakfast was provided and, after Introductory amenities,

the two began their talk, in Spanisk.

The talks terminated at 1230.

The second meeting of the day was postponed until 1600, as AMISH was not

feeling too well.

Later at the Station, Kynington revealed that he now believed

the morning meeting had been surveilled and that efforts were being made

to determine who was responsible. It was readily established that it was

wu cuban ci doried enerzise, but ratues que by vue ui. we French services

or local police. Since it was pointless to stop the meetings now and

the address of the safehouse had not been mentioned verbally, it was

decided to continue as planned. Paris will forward account of surveillance

and ouicone as soon as possibie. (when we left Paris, at was determined

that this "surveillance" of our meeting night have been a truly freak

coincidence, and the subject of the surveillance was another target, not

us. We don't think so. However the pending Paris report should resolve this.)

Marie.

SOMET

teasts:

---

## Page 25

Growery and ve arrived at the safehouse (49 bis rue Spontini,

XYI) ahead of AMiSH and AWHIP. A tape recorder was installed. At 1615,

AMLASH and AMHIP arrived.

shortly after introductions, Growery and

AMLASH were, talking business in Spanish. After about, 30 minutes; wertook

AMWHIP out of the flat on the pretense of buying food,

1n orders

tho principles could talk freely. Procuring food and beer; we returned

after a two hour absence, and made a cold supper for the four. The meeting

terminated about 1930, AMlASH and AWHIP leaying some 15 minutes before

us: Arrangements had been made for a meeting at 1000 the following day

for further talks, and beginning 2ô s/ll training.

27. Events of 17 August 1962.

At 1000 Growery met with AMLASH for several hours; Arrangements

were made for AMLASH to return to the safehouse for s/w training that

afternoon at 1400. (See Sw training report for account of meeting. ›

Before breaking up, arrangements were made for a continuation of the s/W

training the following day.

18. Events of 18 August 1962.

(See S/ report for account of training this meeting conducted

at the aforenentioned safehouse. Account of debriefing of AMLASH during

this meeting and others to be filed by Growery. All debriefing of AMI.ASH

by Growery was conducted in the Spanish language.)

19. Events of 19 August 1962.

meeting was neia ai I900 ai safelouse. Acount si mcctinE to

he included in Growery's reporting.

25-

SECRET

not 1

t.i

2ME..

1107:

---

## Page 26

20:

Erents of 20 August 1962.

Kymington and Grovery picked us up at Madaldine church at 0600,

and proceeded to rendezvous with AMLASH. Counter-surveiliance detected

no-apparent observation of the pickup of us The four then proceededby

car to the Aruy Air Corps Support Element at st

Andress for bes demonstratz on

and Instruction in plastic explosites. The classroom work and the Meld

denonstration lasted until 1430, at which time the four proceeded back

to Paris: AMASHwas let out of the car in the suburbs and told to

take a taxi back to his hotel.

Kymington took some snapshots of AMASH

receiving this instruction. These are not too satisfactory, but neverthe

less, will be enlarged and forwarded for the files.

The participants met later that evening at 2100 for a drink and

critique and connents of the days activities. AMTASH seemed quite

satisfied with the demonstrations, but was interested in having smaller

explosive packages with more force, and a remote control method for

detonating then. The meeting was short and broke up at 2200. It was

agreed to meet once more on 22 August for a final briefing sesson at :

Growery's hotel room (in the (rillon) at 1200.

21. Events of 22 August 1962.

AltASH cane alone and on time to this meeting. "à tape recorder

was in operation.

About one hour was spent on a review of S/W, followed

by requirements, and tasks to be performed or looked into upon AMASH's

return. (see Growery's report for tasks and sw report for this section

of meeting.) Arrangenents for emergency contact in Paris were set up

using the phone of a contract KUBARKER of Paris Station.

AMWHIP and

te made arrangements for a meeting at Queenie's for 1000, 23 August.

SSODET

Excite!

-26-

---

## Page 27

22. Events of 23 August 1962.

At the morning meeting, AMWHTP said that AMLASH wanted to see

us on a matter conceming s/as the meeting was arranged for 1300 at the

rue spontint farehouse This meeting took on ye

problem was ruinor. AMLASH and AMWHIP departed: the saf ehouse at 1325.

we left a little alter. mis was the last time ve vere to see either

AMLASH OF AMHIP in Europe:

23.* Events of.25 August 1962:

MASH departed for Pragues ve Lert Paria at Lols aboard PAA 119

for New York

26. Miscellaneous Comments on Case, Personalities, and Actions in Paris:

AMLASH's attitude in Paris was essentially that which it had

been during the previous contacts in Scandinavia, that is, changeable as

the weather, varying from occasional flashes of wit and mirth to degrees

of discouragement and perhaps despondency.

He was generally receptive and

Interested in procecures and conversations during the meetings and during

periods of instruction. He makes little attempt to disguise his feelings,

should he becone tired, bored, or disinterested. His social graces ars

not the sharpest honed. He can, however, be reasoned with, even in sone

of his contrary moods. AWHIP was particierly effective in itacuing nim

during these.. We are in complete agreement with AMWHIP when he describes

AMLASH as being full of complexes. But further than that, AMASH not only

has cupiexes as such, but it is felt that he is generally preoccupied

with his thouents presumably about pachlame Cual, anuas outen seemingly.

incapable of maintaining his interest in things about him for any length

SEGZET

-27-

and

---

## Page 28

of time. If one is discussing Cuba, however, he obviously is very

interested. Therefore, it might well be that be is actually so pre-

occupied with thoughts about problems at home, that all else Is secondary

and treated accordingly. When, on occasion, he "opened upl

arbit withsus

It was obvious, that he had done, and was doing, a great deal or thimans

about Cuban problem. It may be that Growery will have much more to say

ai this point, as their discussions were in AMLASH's native tongue. On

any occasions, LASt to rather exasperatins to deal with, but to reel

that this is a trait of his which is a normal fact of his personality,

and not assuned to try the metal of his case officers. We may be wrong,

but doubt it.

27. Physical Appearance:

AMLASH is about 5'll", weighs about 175 lbs., dark wavy hair,

thinning noticably on top and usually needs combing; brown eyes, small,

almost petulant nouth, snall nose, pale complexion, eyes are a little

small for his face and very intense in expression. He prefers dressing

informally, and is prone to wearing jackets with no tie. (He could

mingle with the typical small town corner-loungers without difficulty.)

When dressed up, he presents a good appearance in a masculine way, and

apparenty from Amiiit's stories, does quite well with the women. Concerning

the question of his being a homosexual, we cannot say khether he has a

hidden bent in this direction, but if he does, he is not at any rate, a

purist. but rather Ar-IS.

28. Language:

Native Spanish, fair to good English, out with limited vocabulary.

He can be successfully conversed with using English, but it has to be.

done siowly and with basic constructed sentences. It is not possible to

be articulate with him, if he is expected to grasp the full meaning of the

conversation.

GRANET

---

## Page 29

29- Family:s

AHLASH 1S separated fran his wife, and stated that since he is

going to undertake to work against the regime, he could not go back to her

It he wanted (which we don! t think he does) ask ghe has been too outspoken

In her dislike of the Castro regine and of her desire to get out of Cuba.

AMASH mother lives with hin as she is divorced from his father.

AMassis rather is in the tailoring business and has recently married

a girl many years his junior. AMASH does not approve.

30. Girl Friends.

ArASH is on good terms with a Pan American stewardess of French

descent who is based in Miami, AMWHIP said to us that he thought she was

with us, but we replied we really did not know.: AMASH also is friendly

with the Cuban dancer Sonta CALERO, whom he telephoned from Paris to give

the return date to Havanà.

31. Pastimes,

AMLASE likes nightclubbing and dancing. He is also interested

to a limited degree in architecture and historical buildings and sculpture.

It is interesting to note thet AWHIP was reluctent to answer

many questions about AMLASH's private affairs. He felt that this was

eu suud iasie (sunwai) duù musi vi me murmumn in this report was

obtained by elicitation rather than direct questions.

32. AMLASH's Original Schedule in Paris.

AMLASH was interested in coming to Paris, executing his busiress

with us in the first three days, then checking into the Cuba House or a

small hotel on the left bank, and socializing with the Cubans at their

Embassy in Paris. He also wanted to spend some time on the Riviera

SSONET

-29 -

Extrade

d:

2.23073149

isd

---

## Page 30

(several days), as he felt, or so he told AMWHIP, it may be some time

before he would see this area again. As it turned out, scheduling for

the Growery meetings, Sw training, and plastics demonstrations precludedi

his taiding the Rintera trip, and also postponed his seeing his Cuban

frlends He finally went to the fubassy.on Tuesday, 21 August to make

what contacts he felt were necessary. As it turned out, Gramatges and

most of the men were away on vacations, etc., so that his late showing at

the. Embassy was not a problem at all. No plans had been laid on for his

entertainment by the Embassy, and no one, it turned out, was expecting

him at any definite time after his leaving Prague. He felt much better,

AHWHIP reported, after he had made the Embassy appearance and learned

the above facts.

033. Money Banked by AMLASH

At our last meeting with AMWHIP on 23 August, he said that

AMLASH had given him $500.00 to be banked in Paris or elsewhere against

a rainy day. It is also interesting to note that while AMWHIP. said that

any offer of money to AMLASH would be an affront to him, AMLASH readily

alloned AWlIF to pick up the tabo for the hotol rooms and all expenses

Incurred during the trip, including a number of new pieces for his wardrobe,

and the plane tickets to rrague irom faris. AMwiL sald that when they

dined together on 22 August, AMLASH insisted on picking up the tab, stating

that he felt he should get this one, then expressed surprise at the.

expense of living in Paris. Neither did AMLASH seen to

worry when it was

we who picked up several tabs in Scandinavia. Funny sense of obligations

and finances!

Milaid in flue

RICHARD M. FALLUCCI

TEW/FI

---

