# 104-10146-10279

## Page 1

104.10146-10279

4-057401

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

FRP:

aaca

...

25

STAFF

ACTION: EUR-B (064)

INFO: FILE, VR, DCI/PA, DDO-4, CS/RF, DDA, C/PCS,

CA-4, CCS-ZI CIRL, COMMO-T, CWO-Z, EPSIEG-2,

IP/OMS, LA-&, LSN/ID,

ODPD-D, OED-4, OGC=2.

PCS/LSN, SA/DO/O, SE-&, SECUR-3, SIA, SIA/FL,

(71/N)

78 0395527

PAGE 001

TOR: 0817517 MAR 78

SECRE

T. 081641Z MAR 78 STAFF

20-1

CITE (LONDON)92126

10: DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL MASPLASH CKLEG SGCHART RTWINNER

20-1.

REF: LONDON) 920990391413

1.

"WATFORD. EVENING ECHO" FOR 7 MARCH CIN TV COLUMN TITLED

"LAST NIGHT") COMMENTS FAVORABLY ON REF "PANORAMA" PROGRAM ON

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION,

2. FOLLOWING TWO QUOTES PROVIDE FLAVOR OF ARTICLE:

"CIA MEMOS ON THE ASSASSINATION ARE FULL OF BLANKED-OUT

PAGES, THE PENTAGON DESTROYED ITS FILE ON THE SUBJECT, THE FBI

HID EVIDENCE FROM THE WARREN COMMISSION (WHICH TRIED TO INVESTI-

GATE RUMOURS ABOUT KENNEDY'S MURDER), AND THERE IS NO

POLICE REPORT ON THEIR INTERROGATION OF THE KILLER, LEE HARVEY

OSWALD.

"NEVERTHELESS ENOUGH FACTS REMAIN TO SHOW OSWALD AS A

DOUBLE AGENT WHO HAD CLOSE LINKS WITH THE CIA AND ANTI-CASTRO

CUBANS, KENNEDY'S BITTER ENEMIES."

"IN THE ABSENCE OF TRUTH, THE LIES, EVASIONS AND HINTS

POINT TO A PLOT BY THE CIA - 'AMERICA'S INVISIBLE GOVERNMENT'

- TO KILL KENNEDY WITH MAFIA HELP.

"THE REASON: KENNEDY WAS 'SOFT' ON CASTRO'S TAKEOVER

OF CUBA, WHERE THE CIA HAD RIGHT-WING COMMITMENTS AND THE MAFIA

BIG GAMBLING INTERESTS. "

"WATFORD EVENING ECHO" IS A SUBURBAN LONDON DAILY WITH

CIRCULATION OF ABOUT 50,000.

WE ARE CONTINUING TO MONITOR PRESS/PERIODICALS AND

WILL ADVISE ANY FURTHER REACTION TO PANORAMA PROGRAM.

5. FILE: 200-125-150. EZ IMPDET,

IN. 0395527

LOND 92126

C+R

ofte

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

21351

2100

---

