# 104-10186-10391

## Page 1

104-10186-10391

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-

ISPATCE

SACRIT

HON QU

Chef of Trace

Chier oi

Chict of station,

715Z1 IMICROFILLGO

dui.:

LAN INDUE INCE AIRA

I surizi?

Chief. i Division.

rainst for traced Manuel Mean pno

• € 187

15-77

During.

so recent trip to

the CoB request

iollowii

ng atons from Headquarters:

Traces on fnu ESTEVEz Pero% (identifled as the

Cuban Consul Concral,

Carcolonn): Hoadquarters revoals

that this is lanucl ESTEVEZ Porez (201-333002) formerly

first secretarj at the Cuban Enbassy in liadrid fron 19G2

to 1963: lic is ñ174 on tho Cuban Watchilst.

Othor.:

Infornation irailable st Hcadquarters follows.

10 November 1922, Cubr

WIFE: S11a HERNANDEZ LeOn

rassport 's:

Reported as D/G0/515 and D/62/386

Education:

Poorly educated and uncultured

Background:

Reported to be an activo membor of

the Cuban Communist Party.

Hes worked as a movio

extra and apparently belonged to the Cuban Artists

Association.

activities from 1900 to 1963 aro

1960.- Reported to he going to Mexico on a

propaganin aission.

August 1060 was icported to bc

Ist Socretary at tho. Cuban Embassy, Prague.

this same tour of duty he served as

a diplomatic courier

betreen Pragua and Cologno and as a special courier

ins Cuban missions in Hestorn

reportod to

be the "strong han" at the Cuban Enlassy

rathor tha: the ambassador.

1903 - first Secretary, Cuban Embassy, Madrid.

Respousible for political and propaganda matters and

Communist. Party contacts,

for caiting the inbassy

newspaper Boletin, and apparently was also responsible

for the cose rovil.

Travollod as Diplont in July 1952

from france to Spain (IN 33884, July 1902).

-6

EROSS GUERENCE TO

DISPATEN SYAIBOL AND NUMBER

•:.

1. 201-303002-

SEE SAICION

SÜ•CRET

HES FILE NUMBER

19 - 6 - 102/3

RID

201-333602

HI/ C/ESEC

WE/5/S

- NE/Registry

F 21 June 1965 5610

1

1

àci.

(Mi, C/FI

12. 5

Ni:

22

618R

---

## Page 2

1?.

1:0u - lade a trip to rmisels

and iris,

leaving mold on 22 barel aüd reirain: on the

cith of taros; purpose of trip unitori.

issured the

Mics of crul at the Caban

consuinto in lacerlon.,

micedaro a fucumber 10dr.

in April l0ờt

and suen returned to darin. (is 15096, april J0uo)

to cuba.

Lebruary 1954

IsTEVa's reported duties as soccial courier

control

of. the coic room indicates enplogront is the

Intelligenée survico according

Culan

to information llas. has

reccived

(It 1s

siltasted that Mauris

15-2

tornard and jocal traces ilich ada

toropoing

informntion and forlora to addressees.

pleuse query asluGgl on Estriat cad the above

Distribution:

15-27

- C5: 4248115-2

Attachnente:

ás statei

-

."?

5/BR

---

