992
“'104-10181-10176) + [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1 J

url

~ SECRET wv

May 1977

MEMORANUDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Antonio Carlos VECIANA Blanch (ASISHALE~1) 201-312966

dpob 1928, Cuba

1. Information from review of VECIANA's 201 frle:

a. HKHA 6958, 21 Oct 6
et Oct 60:

1960 - President of Association of Public
Accountants 7 7

1957-61 Employed as CPA and Manager of Banco
Financiero, Havana, Cuba, an. of 06
company owned by Julio 1080 JANEMRER-1,
former Agency contact.7

Formerly Chief of MRP (People's
Revolutionary Movement) in Havana area,

b, HAVA 7133 (IN 14488) 9 Dec 60: “

Qn 7 Dec 60 VECIANA called on COS Havana with
Felix FERNANDEZ Yarzabal, former member of the :
AMWATL group, who at that time represented the

AMBANG wovement in Sagua La Brande area. /NMWAIL

was’ Justo CARRILLO Hernandez’ Montecristi Group/ ASIBANG

{Rust have been Cuban Revolutionary Council. ~

Station had contact with CRC member Manuel RAY7.

VECIANA told the COS Havana of a plot against

Fidel CASTRO, et al., in which VECIANA was

involved. OOS gave VECIANA no encouragement

whatsoever, VECIANA said he had previously spoken

with a State political officer (iden not given).

7 Oct. VECIANA entered U.S. at Key West. Had
Passport, no visa. Came via small bat, received :
$100 month refugee assistance,

d. WAVE 0311. (IN 44277) 29 Dec 61:
ee ET) 29 Dec 61:

29 Dec 61 JMWAVE Station requested POA on VECIANA
for use as sabotage man for MRP. His wife and

chitdren were living in Cuba. His parents were
living in Spain, Wife: Sira Antonio MUINO, later

came to U.S.

ervAn TO Coy

Oc


VECIANA

we wy
JUAN 0636 (IN 24738) 7 July 62:

VECIANA, principal of ALPHA 66 attended meéting

2 July 62 in home of Emilio FUENTES, Bayamon,
Puerto Rico. Purpose was to solicit funds
from 40 persons attending (above-average Cuban
exile professionals). VECIANA pitch was
demand rather than request for funds with

nference reprisals against any who failed
to fulfill this “duty.” VECIANA said it was

necessary that they undertake an actioh program

outside of U.S. control, In this connection

the group was in contact with CIA through person

named "Joe" but group was not going to confide
4n-CYA and were taking precaution of avoiding

CIA penetration, VECIANA left P.R. 4

for fund raising junket to Chicago.

OOA{s) 3232106 (WH.765) 26 July 62:

VECIANA was interviewed by Harry REAL 23 July
62. REAL was officer of New York Contact
Division. VECIANA said they needed Agency
help, but under no circumstances would the
Agency be identified with its activities.
VECIANA said they already had $50-60 thousand

dollars at their disposal scattered in different
places in the U.S, and P.R. VECIANA‘'s immediate

requirement was conversation with someone in

Agency sufficiently highly placed t
commitment.

DBA 18681, 8 Aug 62:

Oo make

VECIANA allegedly went into voluntary exile ca.
Dec 61 arriving in Key West via small boat from

Cuba. On 5 July 62 he left P.R. for Chicago and

New York City to collect funds for Alpha 66
activities, VECIANA had been contacting Cuban
exile groups in P.R., Fla., Chicago, and
possibly NYCity to collect $64,000 cash to
carry out plans, Money w-s being placed ‘in

‘Baneo de Ponce, Santurce, P.R.

FBI informant said VECIANA indicate:
following three individuals then in
were expected to assist Alpha 66:

. + Vigente NOBLE

i

- Guillermo RI
Bernardo PARADELA

Informant ‘said he knew all three as

been connected in 1956 with SIM (Mi

Intelligence Service) in the D.R.

PARADELA wis then in jail in Cuba,

d names of
Cuba who

Guillermo RUIZ /believed to be VECIANA's
: ‘cousin's husband Orestes

uIZ - DGI7.

they had
litary
VECIANA said
but NOBLE


VECIANA

Fa

ir

*

= eo

and RUIZ were on the losse in Cuba, and were
cold blonded killers.

DIRECTOR 73652, 6 Sept 62:

Alpha 66 meeting conducted in San Juan on 30
Aug 62 by Geronimo ESTEVEZ attended by 200
Cuban exiles, Meetings were held weekly. Had
plans to recruit young Cubans in ‘Venezuela,
P.R. and Miami, :

DBA 25402, 22 Oct 62:
VECIANA was trying to obtain 2 boats from some
Junknown Americans somewhere in TEXAS, VECIANA's
org (Alpha 66) centered in P.R.. pperated out
of unidentified islands in Bahamas, and had
representatives in Guatemala and sympathizers
in Miami,

Memo _to FBI from CIA, 6 Nov 62:
afno to FSI from CIA, 6 Nov 62:

Reported that Alpha 66 officer Dr. Ramon PEREZ
Daple, assistant to Dr. Jose Luis GONZALEZ, both
of whom are Castro Cuban infiltrators.

DBA 28528 , 1 Dec 62:

Large sums of money were allegedly donated to
VECIANA for Alpha 66 activities by Julio LOBO.

Memo for Record, 31 May 36:

VECIANA had roomate in Puerto Rico, Felix ZABALA,
who visited Cuba’ Nov 65 in regard to Camarioca
refugee departures, Has an identical twin brother
in Cuba. Had sister in Cuba, at tmt time, who was
Sécretary to Ramiro VALDEZ, Cuban Minister of

interior,

JMCOBRA 0490 (IN 63607) 2 Aug 68:

VECIANA told Cuban Affairs officer Miami 1 Aug 68
that Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez (DGI) married
to VECIANA's cousin, was dissatisfied with Castro
regime and receptive to recruitment. VECIANA
reported same info, to Cuban Affairs officer in
64. In 68 VECIANA served with AID in La Paz.



VECIANA -4-

Zeb

nn. [uarad}so64 (IN 97745)

YECIANA appeared at State political section
23 Sept 68 with same info. se RUIZ, VECIANA

06 said[Henry Tayton] in Miami invited VECIANA
_ to visit [Cas La Paz] who would follow-up

RUIZ case? 2716 47

©. .OGC 74-0019, 4 Jan 74:
= a Jan 74
Letter to U.S. attorney N.Y. from OGC, John
Greaney re Antonio VECIANA and Ariel POMERES
in re unlawful acts of both from 1 Nov 72
to Jan 74 re unlawful importing of cocaine
or other narcotics. ss

S

2. N.B.. The Guillermo RUIZ married to VECIANA'’s cousin:

a. lived in the U.s, illegally in 57,

D. was assigned to Cuban Embassy, Mexico City, Sept 63
as diplomat. DGI activities, was to penetrate
counter-revolutionary organizations. He
flew from Wexico City to Havana on 32 Nov 63, —

Married to VECIANA's cousin,
Reported by VECIANA to support Alpha 66 activities,

Chris Hopkins
LAD/JFK Task Force

N.B. VECIANA has allegedly been involved in
several assassination attempts against
Fidel CASTRO which: for one reason or
another never came off. They were not
connected with the Agency.
