# 104-10173-10075

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10173-10075

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPRITHI

1'-1-1-0-11-1-1-1

MICAOr1.025

JUN

4 1382

I rey Brid

12"o

k'10.1

subject

Action roguirod

Reference

chiof, 'n.

14-6

juilajed ly quelisaud

i!13. dosi

1276-7618

latay Contect and benrictini of LANick

for infornatión

119-3

A .

5800/1949

DIR 31507

Background Use

RETURNTO

Not Reproduce

Attached herewith is arthur J. Hancy'g report of his controts

with KAntaLen Copenhngen 3 and 4 day 1901.

_station. 3

14-6

Any field comments on this date will come from Copenhasen

1

Ittachment:

report, as noted nbove

3 Hay 1961

Distrioutions

93 w/ott,4-

- Covelw/at1

2 - Stocknola 14-3

6/p.J

---

## Page 2

14-00000

3/00V

(s51)-0i821

49

coninet rectings on 5 49d a tily

MICi.EPIL.MCO

JUSt 1 1962

Gnoration!

1. On 3 and 1 iny keveR wass arnin contaDOG,MICRO. SER.

and debricied by lthur Jowner in Canenharen. Loth

sinetinco took place in tio

"rand Hotel", tiere liney

2o The auritionnl dchriofin, shoed that

KiNteR cannot hone, for the

visitor's visa for travol to his rolitives in iingk.

rousin visited the jovict shasay on 17 prii and vas

cloarl; told by a soviet co.sulnr orticial that his

chances for such a vica vcro practicolly non-existont.

se inquiser also anout studs osportunities in tho

ussil but did noi recrive uny oncoura-mant in this

respoct, oither. He has hid no further contacts vith

the RIs ro'reschüatives in ichenhagon anil has had

no indic-lion, even arter his visit at tho soviet

Imbassy, that the sovicts visit to rovive contact with

hir..

copenharen University intho first veck of June.

rinances nimitting, he would like to grend the sumor

in Yuroslavia to iiprovo his theoretienl kno:ledgo

of Serbo-Croatian. le has mdo a tentative ressiva-

tion on an erican-overin liner for his return

to ta U.S,: on 9 soptenber, conewhere botreen nor and

this dato his nians to hairy his pirl-friend, üis

PIERSti, are 20, res. conenharen, Ustoroprcao 109/1,

but in vicw of their financinl situation she will

probably not acconvany hin cither on his projected

trio to luoslavia or his hore travel but will join

hin later. she will continus hor vorl: at an architoot's

olice in cosenharon and w1ll iclo kink linancially

il his trio to lugoslavia snould maccriclizo.

1. In vier: of the above develooments and

conter's ocrochal plan, there lo very lilo 11:011:002

that-any proiuctive situnuion mict aovelon in ure

short tine cabinina vinco knia, eis

has evanomünd and since uh: us lins node no cove

to

renew taciï co:tact it!! Mi: cion aiter nis visit to

the coviet roussy or 17 neil, both Lonellagen vestion) 14-6

mciien such tint tho chic ros 110

at otton

i ".

...: 21.

tionanin :ich

the or the beat three years.

→1:

22

C'55A7: 0192

5061:1

ES COPY

SIERAT

201-288710

---

## Page 3

14-00000

+ +0 3 46-6601

%.

: 1

"1:"

do lindro thron citeratire the ninvionaly ro

munstad172760181

so tinition inc: not innons necocurrs

in donor, unlos itcaduuriero thinlis that krris reno-

anl truthtulneas should be establichod, do snoctric

issiranents have been riven or uro contoulated for

Kitri at this suare ind no further prearrangenents linvo

oten redo to 300 kenter arain belorc ho loaves conon-

hosen. ilo was nerely instructed to contret us nialn,

usin: the vrcriougly cliunre:: co: unication lino lotter

,c,ordurican irb.uosy, jenoniaren /,

contretca aruin by

athere in sirone during this sumncr,

b/ it ho should cone scrous intercatina contacts boto

won the sovicts and tne lorrien or anish stuionts in

Bonenhiren, it the RIs should seck to catablish con-

act with hin arter hts return to lha U.S

'ingüruction is to get in touch vith tho bI imodiately.

6. kinor ainsolf anreared very willin. to re-

doem his "provious mistakes" by any action lie seo i'it.

A thorough rovicü of his contacts with tio IS ild not

brin' out any contradictions with his conrossion nt tho

first meetinos and shoved no indicaiion of continuod

not born clearly detecrinod.

this siould be

recora lor tac cront that at a later stare kamei might

becone again of charani interest or li he should ever

apply for a position ith thE us.

Govurnsont.

Additional in'ou tion on kinals visit at jor ambassy

visited the sovict bassy Irst on

21 noril, but lins told that it was a holidar and that he

should return

on 17 april. On 17 coril he ras receivod

by a soviet orricial, tron he had

seen in the albassy

bofore but riose nane is not knon to hin. this

official is a neavi-set nan, are 35-10, appro%. height

5'16", athlotac build, dar: blond or li hi-broin hair,

round, denty face, lull set of teeth, loud voico.

specks German but does not know vanish. Kinter talked

with hin in russian, inen Kurk inovired abo:t his

vira, tun oiicial ashid min then he aetually rould

liio to visit lis uncl?.

wen virtie. old hi: siat ho

thour? about june or Jult, tho oriicial ansicriù that

such a vion atter could not beda rined in

chort tino ari thru 1:1

hile ios keri to tre.

!6...1 1l.0 1r

me.t911ië

---

## Page 4

14-00000

+ To-+000444-7678 736R8T20iUNaEE

1i....n0..8

!:.."

tree sedate earn ite

schur!" ircidenually,

conrede tadici.CV lin noù 5500: 4011 of joi" / 20

¡noroshe o see oraculund, then krand ariod " iron

whore,froat.croor?", ai

sovsct diil not renot in any

ray and disissed timo litiout any explanation

of

his crystical renart. in nras ovinion, the soviot

wes obriount tailier ith Kinds dossicr and ner-

hans wante to let hi:? know tro accurl reason lor

turinin. corn his visa application.

¿dichen on canis contacts wit oviets in tho U83?

8.

Kraich stated that at the nectinrs on 11

and la soril he had I'orotten to mention an ajisode

that had occurred at his first cri? to the is? in

19:8.

wefore ho leit, airdcikOV suve hin tro arlish-

lunruaj0 books, one abcut iericir anecdotes and the

other unrelicoreà by kiRias :chl as two bottles oi

whistay. a asked Kh'ma to tresmait the books and 1

boilo of whiskey to one /Inu/sizzlrE, nenber oi the

stafi of "'osco: liers"

, 11100 vanite was to call up i?

i0:osco". MiNIDiKOV save Kwer. tho telepaone

second bottle of whisker mas to be iven to sire's

uncle -s s present. Un his return fion..insk

to

couchlagen white spent tirec days in lioscov and stayed

at the "etropol", de reiembered ::MACiOUs request,

called up sinIta and

was visited by the latter at

the hotel. kite transmitted the boois enù 1 bottle

of risey to silio.

tho latter asked him ii Kre

ras inüeresten in rritin- a short arcicle for ihe

"I'osco:' hers" about his innersions in insk. Kaver?

erreid and roote about trio handritten pares, statins

that he had been

rather raverably inpressed by that

appered to be a very last prosta sni :cconstriction

or the city of : ingle jilli? acceuted the ervicle,

cave prize too sables as a rosand prozisel to send

destri cory 0i 110 issio ti the arciclo tore to be

nuulished. Kure signei a reccint loi the zoney. io

did nit receiro

ay cooy and docs not inor mil ther the

article lis ever isodi ville amcared to be aù t.at

tino prout Suritiaro Old. riüs & store, Gara ner

nion a coustache, thin of cuili.

vas eithor a icorcian or stenin, belioves that to

• 530÷3 n:lish

fluently ini inio.te

chat ne taurt also soreral

•initial.

• coriova me intil ella very day

ho does not loch chat thor

Salino

---

## Page 5

14-00000

++5400215919

bionta Esent's-ro 4-

12ZLDOUE

D. wieras ritucr har hin malnee nt 26.221r2006

1ar.""

•:' ir tewem "ill iot bo :ulo to

F2cid Dediatoly afoer his ricurn soge and will

rninp.nru.

naoe io cort, iù is nossiilo that le :ill le holbing nis

father in ibr laucor's business.

lù. tummad lus deccivcù a lutbur fion hic nother io

1nPormn hl:: that sio 1s inkias stoos to ori.r, oud hsr irotior

Minavès unclo incinsl ofcicintlr tore us. , Quü kiNeR

is n'i sure lhotaor sne is thintin of tornor.ry visitor's

vi:n ur a sorannent lúd ration visu. t uny rato, she ing

maic out airidavits of support ior hor brother.

11. KaNrd reaililed that he mas nevor a nombor of

any orranization, crcent is a boy, then ic joinea the occ

Caucts. In the cistrict in hich

hc ;rew un,nost of tho

pro:lo vero of rcocressive vioug', but his

varonts took

prcat caro to icey hia out oi this environmont, send hi?

to & liebres school, and in senoral tooi qrout pains to

educate him In tradicional values. joth his varents and

ho hi:1solf were considered and consider thensclvos anti-

ComunistS. KITiL

s docision to study dussion wis entircly

his oin and

nrimrili dictatco by his dosirc to

leain nore about the countiy of oririn of his paronts

and to ontor a fielà which had nothin;'to do viti businoss.

lie has nover felt attrricted to busiless oi roney-neking.

occupations, an attitude wnich has caused soro conflicts

In the Dast betleen hin and his Inther..

jericr of notivition

12, KMnToR reitcratea that in 1957 and 1958 he

diù not considor his contacts vith jmY.cioV as illicit

or conflictin; with his loyalty torarus the l5. ihough

KitWYACiIiOV told nin to bi discieet ubout their contaots,

he alleredly told his friands in Conennazon that ho jas

neetine nin. ie l'as varuely avare ol the direction in vrich

he l'as bolnn pusioù, but since he har'a stron, desire to

ro to the USi? and did not provisc to KisYACiOY any "sub-

versive inioraavion", he iid not focl: that io haa over-

stenyed the bouriarios of the ncirissible. curthernore,

iRY..C.RUV prubertea all iis rerucats ior vritten strto-

•onos and incomation auout kairri's innály, baciszround,

ani trierdo as vrcreouisitos lor tho issuince oi a vinitor's

visa, ind tonvébcliered uhat this wa ciite consistont

with shat he had heard about thin susuiciousness or tio

le T l US

richaong trlgie dol tuc!" toy.

13. In leitin: doth iiiidadr mul lntor saicdr

helirve crat

"lé cos nuo oispioi to le cilondo ilti cno

.ovicüs" , inniri chouhi to bo very clitor enu c'iiliill.

SLCis1

---

## Page 6

14-00000

lie " seat tils drin are all caserie to hiricht.

.is min desire cue to keen the wvor men ier turther

•'o itor cho treruitarno ditch anê alice

nis scrimirion ion tho ussile maint'inoù the coa-

cict rich minitt ind later loriv. curlov/ ondy

reluctantli rai only crecuso ho dii not mulü so canse

any trouble is wis rrlatives in tie Uss?,touch,is

LAnter narlEs, none of his IS contacts ever -ade any

olcar or i-lion threats that lis rolatives sould surrer

did so: collaborato. In fuct, the only soviot sho

attenyue a nicor presaure ran Groicly lODiALOV. He told

router once turt if he did not collaborato, no visa for

nir roulu be loithooniar.

11. twan ranitted condialy that his desire

study tre Russian lunquage wes so stion; in 1956

1950 that in at that time tno oviorg had

ortered him

an opportunity to attend a soviet university, le would

huve accooted, even ii le haa boch discourered or tho

thorities. covever, nüci his experience in 1959

ho alleredly cinaged his vior ruaically and just wanica

to be lort alone. .ich all that, kuti could not provido

a lorical roà plousille explanution liny ho did not cone

to the u..5.

authoritieg and resort ercrythina. then

questioned by-reek rather sharply on this point, hc.

caotional and stated that "if he really wanted

to concoal anyting, and ir ve thou:lit that he vas still

doing what the joriets told him to do, no certainly rould

have minbbed the oscortunity of costroving his passport

and simoly deny taat he has been in the USsil in 1959".

15. In retrospect, rumblieves that ho while

he had been iors naive in the

berinnint or his contacts

with tho joriits and the IS, he did not really encore in

any 'subversire activity", did not dinaly any valuablo

information to them, and did not coult anytaing con-

Ilictin: with his loyalty as a 1.5.

citizen. do

expressod the rerrot that he was now unable to drovo

his vorth.

16. as stated abovo, kauri's bohuvior and

reactions durin: those list meetin's insearca to do cite

consistont with nis churecior end did not indicato ani

existin? dIs coitrol. no voluatcered linsell the soment

danging additional iom o his contret cith sidles and

the payment ios an article wich mis obviously a orot it

Silici

010g

SECRET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

9027345634

isa DisFidotti 2 89532-8:7

4030-4167900

che dail

con ol l13 unede

110. d/ 27 2 9200,970 30.

Kits s colgin, olilast

only onco ly with. : 14 & vit lircly

indiriqual, not overly cuncated but chrerd od anvarently

cinable in his businoss: nolitienl in his vlous.

b/ comn hoY, ore 10, arrrted to a Jerish

ro an,also tro children. .. works in a photo raphors studio

and carns thoro neout lite rublos, but worko algo on tic sly

und 1s crobabiy coranod ilso in ninor black-niket afreirs.

nis vile is a torcher i: a soconi,r! school ind raing

100% ruüies per nonth: shey roside in a new homsin aroiect

in: inst, precive aurear unknoin. Mosan zonic comlcur

"seniletka", ne vas in military service a 107.e.

timo and reched tie

Ianl: of scrgeant. conpletely coli-

tical in his vione, io is an e: cellent chess playoi.

c/ Yovenir alioV, are 53-10, husband or

whitn's aunt's dnurliter tron her forezious marciare, ind e

in a crininal court, alle cily tho only jevisi juage in the

entire byclorussian sor, but his salary is noiost, only

1500 rublos in 1969. "e ly probably a Comunist and

party menber, buit In 1958 or 1959 he vas criticized in

sone rivolorussian nowsoaners for havino passed too lenient

sentoncos in sone crininal cases. levgenit ollikov vas

extrencly carciul in his lo contacts sith knnoè during

the latter's visits in iinsk and never ouga ed in any

political conveisations.

d/ Cricoriv KeziTKOV, brother of tho above,

age 20-28, 1n 1069 125 in his last yenr of peysics studios

at the iniversity of : insk. Kakel had only a fow casual

conticts with hin, jut ne introuicou kaune to sono other

youns sors in. inskone oi the above or any ocher relative

eroccts to travcl abroad. Kiuni docs not c-intain any

corresuonience titi thom.

Casual acauainiancos and cortacts in tag Ual 1n 1933/58

en :inccrino slucent to u. univeisiti in. inal,:.o tortou

un ron inctory in. inott nint shiits. la

iatico ino the rire uinutictio: ci brin one or the ici

Jo'lan chair.en o: k0lno% la te : verorussian j5. Volodun

r's unt a codiist inu vid not s0o: ano incresò in voli-

... lia!"

o divina il Colincrolo

tiene Credere no. and lesiori-

ine lisin.

mondo In lini he live. . Caruiidory di ilo. Ins' iniver-

"I?".

.. + ...-

---

## Page 8

4-00000

• innel of ar.l6....

set one cyan.t

wind his anartest but north at t in coloiy:

• condo. .de min inüerist sere rirl:

nile he las not a

"s+1Lvaea"

as obvicusly usra his intronhe mor

aucrial advantages.

ialily cloco

¿/ soverel other veer people, belon in to thin

serie crono, lilose nares diven does 10i licolloct und those

nuin interosts vere jazz music,dancin?,'irls.

a, Irina Unksandrovna Tale 28, ramlish lur rigo

translator at the suionobile lunt

in sinsk,n pretty auburn

oi richien neicht.reot kanne sot throue tho ocher you"

poonlo in surnor 10id. incy had a shori-lived lovu alinit

which

ended even berore kink'as ericllod fion the usa:,

since he discoverod that she sloot wiüh several boys.

irina's rather must have had a rood sosition, sirce the

lamily ornai a sersonal car. irina nover nave ku hor

lnst nars but did not show much curiosity for his per-

sonal baciround eithor and diù not tor to olicit any

incornation irom him, though she cirplayed the usual curle

sitv los the life in the US! and lostion-urone. In her

work she translated inalish tecinicrl

jorrnals. she sooko

inclish fairly well but preferred lussion. she

that she had been in üzechoslovasia mi onco montioned

that perips the would be sonetines ablo to cone to von-

mark as a tourist, kaancs mot her rather f'renuently in üunc

and July 1059, at loast once a leek, but us invited

to her

house onlj once, when her parenis sore away.

ol is with his relatives, kink hardly ever

talied politics with the above

and did not. noko any arrante-

ments to kicep in touch by mil after hir dovartuic fron

the Uss?.

icreral intonation on insk lu 1959

19. is commared with 1953, the luildin: sctivitins

in 1959 Tere vory intonsive, prirarily bir blocks of horsin:

projrets. Tie hotel "ins!" ms coralcun in lo?. vevcarl .

horsin. areas and sono new builiins were auder to

unircrsity.

co. in 1959 sone city districe: still hir no

!.1. 11. 19. 11 Hill! : '1"

-і е! комет 1і:

¿lo In lore there sere no serin: alert crs, hus

1: 1.006

---

## Page 9

so: #: +47-40190637655

5

'!:

68 tho Modes Et Cite Ma Darn Mto 1a 300 • 10n 1r01º

1rorersion 1.is

une ale area nionian idick is neilociod

Isd that life must be extrerely. hard.

23. In adcition to the universitv, thore nro sovcral

technical institutes, out kiesen iad no onvortunity of vi31-

tin then. in rencers that ho once marred by i buildin.

riich: houses a nilitary roscorch institute / "rovenno-

neuchny institut"i, but sithout a may ho vas not ablo to

descilbo its location.

21. the linsk CVIl is located obnonito the school

no 25 or 12. It is housod in tho sano buildins, s "militsiya"

and occunies several officos and rooms on the first floor,

room nurbors 109-111. It has a very suall staff,?-3 malo

anployacy and 2 fonales in the "resistralsiya".

25. Rather large military barracks are located on

the grushevskays ulitsa. They can ho:so at loast a division.

25. the Jewish cormunity of ilnsk is considered the

larrest in the bunlorussion us?, but is nust have sarunk

considerably since i. II. thero is still l very snall

synagogue, which is onen and attended by older peoplo.

inti-semitism is not felt by a visitor, but local jews

cold keros that in the last woars of stalins lire there

were

a nasa deportation or the letish nonulation to civeria.

/In 1958

kains encountored a jerish student in Lenin,rad

who told hin that cvon now ccitain carcers are closed to

Jews such as dinlonatic service,pilitary schools leading

to higher ranks/.

27. mon? non-Jewish people twas heard in 1959

some rather an sing runors: ho was asked repeatealy

whether it was true that sisenhovor, jockeieller, f.r.

organ, cord were jewish, hen ho deniod this, ho not

berton, shon to de

with considerablo sceptiaism.

28. Kiwtos ins isked if he hnd any soviet litter

still in his possession, but the only thin, that he coula

find was a tolley bus tickot jattached/. lo his best re-

collection he has not seen any telophone directories in

any public alace in iinsk.

current arms: leads in coronaron

2?. Kenter's current contacts lith forolen and

mnish sturents. are alle edly ruitr linited, broilse ho

.. 10ê Müt Me Male ¿i 1h0010110911 110 00 01 1r

his ilanceo occurr his entire troo tire. dio only cor-

crote locus or possiblo intirest are:

SACHET

---

## Page 10

14-00000

initch, atmiter" in t!i

cical e schrone ad cot her Vial axtendod 111110

stalin: there until december 1960. she hnu been

job' it loust do & yours and ling now n vol: jino

coitand or the lar-uajo. uho lives in illerod, a joven-

harin suburb, preoiso midross

unknorm. ¡or future lans

are 32-03, nossibly still in, oscow

but que back soon, probably at the end of tho currcit

cut/ll torn a le -iso an echaoro sturient and hud his disa

alro extendoi while soill in the ison. lie is a teicher.

do has boen in tho ison repoatculy as a suide for « tinvo?

oranization /interational lourt/. ic his been sidying

dionair doi a long tine. vanish national and citi:

3 youn? ali! nculvo yorunst or at least & nronouncod

fellor-involor, annesis to be an croanitor and 1s very

active in the cussiar language club, "santnik". lie has

been in icnin:rad and has sons trienas thoro, but ho

hus not stuaied thera, daress unknown.

are 40 plus,

toaches mussina lanchage courses int beginners. Used to

In :orcow. oro incoracion

1s urovadly contained in the Copenhason University ca-

0/855. SPURCE

and 35-36, "cand.nar,", toaches

coursus

ol russian langure for daw and/or science stu-

dents.

I swer has no social contacts lilth the above

and knots thon only casually from the jinvic Institute.

Gone'31 scurks

s0, nivini deteruined that the winne. case vic

• sents no current

i still ralla leseon ta fit doc with cores toulonly

More attention of to Copes ten ta ron fast broutht

past 14-6

UpS.

---

