# 104-10122-10406

## Page 1

104-10122-10406

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

S-E-C-R-E-T

(When Filled In)

19 MAP 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, NEA D1+1B100

FROM

: Deputy Director of Security (Investigations

and Support)

SUBJECT

: 51812

#172646

1. haferenca le nade to your request for a Corart Security Approval

to perait Subject's uno as an informant on tha plans, actlvitios and

prograna of the Indian Embessy)in which he le engagod or or vilel do 18

knowledgeable.

11,24

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine

Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction -

Field No. 10-5, a covert security approval 1s granted for the use of

the Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,

above.

3. A memorandum containing pertinent Information regarding Subject

4. Subjects of covert security approvals are not to represent

themselves as nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

5. Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security

approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions

of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore, 11 you should desire at & later

DDS/JES

date to change the status or use of this Individual, a request for

renaias approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this

C: 10:530

office.

Des Criet

6. This approval becomes Invalid in the event the Subject's

A lo cla services are not utilized within six months of the date of this

memorandum.

C!:.

THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Coniral Doi

CLOSED

MEANY/spe

11 March 1959

S-E-C-R-E-T

(When Pilled In)

Bec File Capy

---

