# 104-10071-10062

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10071-10062

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

, DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

10

iNFO.

FROM

SUBJECT

SECRET/REBAT

Chief, HOLIME

ADDP; Chief, FUR Division; Chief, WOMUSE;

Chief, ICRIPIT/London

Chief of Station London

W4ALPHA/MEPROBE/RODIGAST

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

1. 60e 68

Forwarded under separate cover is a memorandum prepared

by RUFUS I- RODIGAST which deals with MHALPHA related

individuals and which is useful background information on

this subject.

Thomas K. JADWIN

Attachment: u/s/c

Menorandum

Distribution:

. * C/ WOLIMS w/att

1 - ADDP M/att

1 - C/EUR #/att

I - C/ NOMUSE

w/att

1 ~ C/LCPIPIT W/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO.

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OELA-43626

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/R

• X B

A F

7529

ACTING RECAPRI

in Mess 13-301:

8 FEB 1968

DATE

EA: Radit

19 January

• 1968

HQS FILE NUMBER

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRETRYBA

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO:

OELA-48626, dat! 19 January 1968

Subject: Black nationalist writers in Paris

1. At present there do not seen to be many black nationalist (American Negro)

witers residing in Paris, apart from William Gardner Smith, long-time resident,

who is ron at work on a book about his summer trip to the USA and meetings

with black power and other civil rights activists there.

i moderate views although she knows many black nationalists here, there are

a couple of young legro writers being handled by Ellen Wright, white widow

oi the late Richara liright (author of "Native Son"), who is now a literary

3. Ellen fright's daughter Julia is married to a Frenchman named Hervé, and

Julia is an editor of Jeune Afrique. The Hervés lived in Ghana along with

the illiam Gariner Smitns until the coup which overthrew Nkrumake Ellen

"right nas another daughter vino

according to Carlene Polite, was seen at a

has orden one apart it in he Bad d us, too his do a te

a poem or pamphlet aütacking James Baldwin as an inadequate leader of his

people (because of his homosexuality etc.). Julia Hervé and her husband want

to publish Bibbs! woris, according to Polite.

4. Leroy Haynes, who has been a resident of France for 18 years (he is about 56)

and mins an American Negro restaurant near ligalle, says that the writers

he loons are Chester nines, now nainly an author of crime novels wno used

to live in Paris but nor apparently lives in Copenhagen; and Alex Haley,

autror of "The Autobiography of Malcolm X". Haley has been living in France

temporarily (nis aadress is 13, rue du Dr. M. Pxovençal, Haut-de-Cagnes,

Alpes-karitimes), but will retur to the USA in February. He recently traveled

in jirica aná claimed to have traced his ancestry back to a particular African

community, according to Haynes.

5. As for limes, he is not kaor for his nationalist views. Another Negro

writer llving in raris is velvan Van feebles, who is also not particularly known

for tilitancy. He has had 3 or 4 works of fiction published in France (in French)

and has just made a fito,

La Permission, which is being shown at a Us film

festival (possibly in San Francisco); Van Peebles went back to the USA for

this snoring.

6. Haynes is mentioned in William Gardner Smith's last novel, "The Stone Face":

his restaurant is a meeting piace or all american legroes who visit rrance.his

guess bock contains ine signature of stokely carmichael, for whom haynes gave a

party auring his recent visiu to paris, of the Martin Lither King group which

visited Paris earlier, et al. Like snith, haynes has a white french wife, and

he is probably not much of a nationalist militant.

SECREIOVDAT

---

