# 104-10179-10143

## Page 1

104-10179-10143

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 bestini

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

ATE

ROM

:

CTION:

sFO

400

19 AUG 62

DIRECTOR:

MEXICO CITY

TrW 10

DOP, C1, C1/OPS, C1/OA, WH 7, S/G 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

OUTING PA PROS

16

AUG 19 0125Z 62

ROUTINE

IN 47827

DIR INTO SUAN WAVE CITE MEXI 1745

GYROSE

RET DIR 30436 (OUT 666T3)

01, 24

3. JEREMY & BENADUM, WHO HANDLES ELSTEMPO VISA CHANNEL, BELIEVES

PRACTICALLY IMPOSSIBLE GET MEXICAN VISA BY APPROACHING MEXICAN CONSÜL

MIAMI OR SJAN. PROBLEM IS GETTING GUBERNACION VISA PERMIT. GOBERNACION

HAS LITERALLY HUNDREDS OF APPLICATIONS STACKED UP ON WHICH ACTION

NORMALLY BUROCRATICALLY SLOW ANYWAY AND ON WHICH GOBERNACION DOES NOT

REALLY DESIRE TAKE. ACTION, BECAUSE OF DANGER CUBANS WILL BECOME PUBLIC

CHARGES. BEST CHANCE IS TOR ANY HIGH LEVEL MEXICAN OFFICIAL IN MEXICO

CITY FRONT FOR AMBANG-S AND FOLLOW UP CASE CLOSELY THROUGH COBERNACION

NEXT BEST CHANCE IT A-I HAS NO SUCH HIGH LEVEL CONTACT IS TO USE

ANY CUBAN FRIEND O5 HIS MEXI WHO HAS SUCH HICH LEVIL MEXICAN CONTACT.

THIS IS USUAL METHOD. USE OF ETATION LITEMPO CHANNEL WOULD KOT

NICZSSARILY BURN ODDOKE INTEREST AN A ZECAUSE LACH LEVEL SOBERNACIONA

OFTICIALS SOMETIMES KNOWINGLY USE LITEMPO VISA CHANNEL THEMSELVES 2i:

FOR "PERSONAL INTEREST" CASES AND MIGRT VERY VELL BE USING THE CHANNELS

THZYSELVES LIN A-J'S CASE IT BY COINCIDENCE A-J'S CUBAN FRIENS MEXI

HAPPENED TO APPROACH THEM. STATION HAS NOT DISCOURAGED SUCH USE

Doctor then entert:

SECRET

MINTING NI

#1893:11631180

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN IME ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

JU/T

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

SATE

!.

TO

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO

PAGE 2

IN 47827 MEXI 1743

OF THE CHANNEL BECAUSE IT TENDS TO HELP EVERYONE WHO "IN ACTO TO

KEEP MOUTHS SHUT AND TO KEEP /CHANNEL TROM BEING BRANDED AS

EXCLUSIVELY/ODYOKE.] 01

2. WOULD BE PREFERABLE FOR A-S TO ZRY ON HIS OWN AS INDIÇATED.

BUT METICAN AND WILL ON REQUEST

INITIATE AND FOLLOW THROUGH ON ACTION.

IMPORTANT THING IS THAT ACTION NOT BE CARRIED ON BY'A-S AND ETATION]

SIMULTANEOUSLY. THERE WILL BE NO NEED TOR/ETATIONITO INTERVENE WITH

MEXI CONSUL MIAMI ONCE VISA PERMIT ISSUED LE NO QUESTION A-S CAN

PROVE HIS ABILITY REENTER PBPRIME WITH SOME DOCUMENT. IF SUCH QUESTION

ARISES, MEXI CONSUL VILL PROBABLY CONTACT STATION CASE OFTICER 24.

BIN ODAÇID

JON OWN. IF NOT A-S CAN SUGGEST CALLING THEIR

USUAL ODACID CONTACT MEXI.

Sà PLIASE ADVISE.

statio

END OF MESSAGE

C/S CONMENT: *RE OBTAINING VISA FOR AMBANG/1.

Luciated 8es sittante

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Соду На.

---

