[104-10179-10209| [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

aoe i CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
rae SECRET

TO «DIRECTOR
ROM 1 SONWAVE
acuon, Do/uil [sd 3
wo,» DOP ve

SECRET 2701522

DIR INFO SJAN CITE WAVE 8556 an

eanieniitsh 1c YOBITE AMBANG

ACCORDING AMFAST-6 REPORT 25 JUNE, AMBANG-} INFORMED PEPE

wl5975

te
GATILLO (JOSE GARCIA VALDEZ) THEIR DEPARTURE DATE FOR PBRUMEN WOULD

BE y JULY. BOAT TO BE USED IS UNNAMED RYBOVITCH neifeo IN FORT
LAUDERDALE AND SUPPOSED BE AT INTERNATIONAL MARINE boc 26 JUNE.

| BELIEVED BE SI-FOOTER WITH TWO CHRYSLER ENGINES EACH 280 HORSE
POWER AND SPEED 35 KNOTS. AMBANG-t, GATILLO AND MECHANIC TO USE

“|RYBOVITCH WHILE 1958 GREEN CHRIS CRAFT, OWNED BY ARMANDO_ACOSTA

AND NOW AT ANACAPRI PIER, 1884 NW NORTH RIVER DRIVE, MIANI TO
SERVE AS MOTHER SHIP AND BE bib BY ARWANDO. bial ORLANDO |
t

20t-29908 4v55¢ 20f— DEI
"BEBO" ACOSTA SUAREZ, AND BILL SShus, AMBANG ieee CHIEF, CHUS
er ee —

TO SERVE AS MECHANIC AND GO ASHORE WITH AMBANG-1.
2. GATILLO TOLD AMFAST-6 THAT HE AND AMBANG-1t TO LEAVE AT
(0580 ON 1 JULY AND TO MEET OTHER BOAT AT 0903 SAME MORNING OFF

| eee |

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED Copy No.



Shy

| GASOLINE, THEY EXPECT ARRIVE COJIMAR ABOUT 2@ HOURS AFTER DEPARTURE.
ON THEIR ARRIVAL THEY TO BE MET BY on

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE SECRET IN ASEZS pace ___

PBPRIME COAST WHERE CHRIS CRAFT TO SUPPLY RYBOVITCH WITH 283 GALLONS

| JJ wwe to take THEN MaBana. | — l) varers
wane 406 06
3. GATILLO BELIEVES AMBANG-1 ACTUALLY PLANS LEAVE BEFORE
! JULY BUT HE DOES NOT WANT ANYONE KNOW EXACT DATE. HE HAS TOLD
ALL THOSE GOING VITH HIM BE READY BEFORE 1 JULY.
4. ON 24 JUNE GATILLO TOLD ANFAST-6 THAT ANBANG-1 ee REMAIN
PBRUMEN ABOUT 13 DAYS IN ORDER COORDINATE PLAN oF action VITH
PEOPLE THERE AND IN ORDER TO SEE CERTAIN PEOPLE CLOSE AMTHUG-1 '
WHO PLOTTING WITH AMBANG-1, DATE TO RETURN TO PBRUMEN AND PICK
UP ANBANG-1 TO BE SET AT TIHE AMBANG-1 LANDS PERUMEN. ANBANG*1
PLANS CALL ALL ORGANIZATION MEMBERS FOR VERY IMPORTANT. MEETING AT
WHICH TIME HE TO”DEPART FOR PBRUMEN INSTEAD, THIS TO BE £7 OR 26
J use. : : sell RUBY
5. GATILLO ALSO TOLD AMFAST-6 ON 24 JUNE THAT NICOLAS SALADO
MATA LEFT 25 JUNE FOR VEST PALN BEACK BY TRUCK WITH TRAILERED BOAT
WHICH BELONGS ANBANG ORGANIZATION. MOTOR OF BOAT TO BE REPAIRED
IN VEST PALM BEACH AND THEN BOAT TO BE SHIPPED PUERTO RICO ABOARD
FERRY, GATILLO SAID TvO MEN CLAIMING BE ODENVY. AGENTS WENT°TO PIER
LOOKING FOR SALADO AND BOAT,” THEY ANGRY TO FIND BOTH GONE;. GATILLO
CONNENTED THEY DID NOT LOOK LIXE ODENVY AGENTS AND HE DOUBTS THEY

1 SECRET
CR


CLASS:;S1ED_ MESSAGE F SECRET | ntLSAIS pace 3.

WERE, MOT TRACES REVEAL JOSE NICOLAS SALADO NATA BORN 1S MAY 25

IN ISABELA DE SAGUA, LAS VILLAS, LEFT PBRUMEN 25 SEPT 61 AND
ARRIVED WAVE AREA ON OLGA ON 27 SEPT. - ASSIGNED NUMBER A 12 493 733.
WAS FISHERMAN AND KNOYS NORTH COAST VARADERO VERY WELL, (SEE

(13
WAVE 8375, NOT SENT SJAN, FOR ALLEGED REPORT SALADO TOOK ELOY

GUTIERREZ MENOYO PBRUMEN.)
6. ACCORDING AMRAZZ-1 REPORT 24 JUNE, MAX LESNICK SAID ON
23 JUNE THAT AMBANG-1 INVITED NEW YORK BY CHIEF LATIN AMERICAN
SECTION TIME MAGAZINE AND THAT HE LEAVING FOR NEW YORK MORNING 24
JUNE, LESNICK SAID AMBANG-1 TOLD HIM HIS VISIT TO NEW YORK CONCERNED
PUBLICITY WHICH APPEARED TIME ABOUT HIS ARREST AND TELEGRAN OF
PROTEST WHICK HE HAD SENT TO TIME ABOUT FALSENESS PUBLICITY.
LESNICK TOLD ANRAZZ-! HE VERY CONFIDENT AMBANG-! WOULD LEAVE FOR
PBRUMEN WITHIN TWO WEEKS, :
7. ON 25 JUNE AMRAZZ-1 SAID ED REINGOLD OF TIME TOLD HIM ON :
24 JUNE THAT AMBANG-! HAD GONE NEW YORK THAT DAY TO MEET WITH HIS
BOSS GEORGE DANIELS AND THAT HE WOULD PROBABLY BE BACK WAVE AREA
25 JUNE. REINGOLD DISCLAIMED INTENTION MAKING FUN AMBANG-1 IN HIS
ARTICLE. NE SAID HE HAD NOT MENTIONED ANYTHING TO EFFECT THAT
AMTHUG-1 NUST BE’ LAUGHING AT HIM AND THAT THIS HAD BEEN PUT IN BY
4 NEW YORK RE-WRITE MAN WHO DOES NOT LIKE AMBANG-1.
8. ACCORDING AMTAUP-2, IN DD-988 OF 24 JUNE, WHO TALKED WITH
4 AMBANG-1 ON 23 JUNE, AMBANG-1 SaID HE GOING ZRMETAL 24 JUNE. AMOT

SECRET

SS



SECRET LIS pace 4

AGENT ACCIDENTALLY OBSSERVED AMBANG-1 LEAVE HOUSE AT NW S8TH ST AND

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ISTH AVE AT $:45 24 JUNE AND PROCEED TO JACKSON BYRONS WHERE HE
WAS MORNING 24 JUNE. CWAVE COMMENT? AMBANG-i HAY KAVE BEEN
ATTEMPTING LEAK MISLEADING INFO TO PRECLUDE DISCOVERY HIS ACTUAL

WHEREABOUTS.)

SECRET. =o

wren

