# 104-10192-10001

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10192-10001

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRANSMITTA

OF

TOES INTO RATION REPORT

Marse Cornbro sm

141

ROUTING

,ECRET

Jus 27 2T. 70:64

ORIG.

UNIT

EXT.

5517

HU/SA 11

INFORMATION COPIES

pri

TDCS DB-315/00518-64

CJ/OPS, CI/SC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, IW, CA 2, CA/PEG, DODS, WE 4, NH 12

DATE DISTRIBUTED

PRECEDENCE

SA/R

27 August 1964

DISSEMINATION

1 SA/SI

1SA/WAVE

1 SA/SO /M$

WH/L

2

_WH/2/P

2

PACY

LIST

BARR

NEXI

Д.

XL ROUTINE

BASED ON (PLO. aPT., PROS.)

WAVE-1037

UFG -5756.

NP (ANSWIRL-1)

Liaison

(18-61124)

SA/ BOB

SA/CL

SA/NOB

EVALUATIÓN

REQUESTED

_STATE

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

WE/S/R

WE/MADE,

ARMY

NAVY

AIR

CONTROLLED DISSON

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MMINIMILO IN)

18-A31X-8 ORSONITIPRIVIONS ADITIONS

COOIDINATING OFFICER(S)

03

RELEASIN GORIES L

ickens

COPY NO.

103-70-18-107

г/10

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

• ROUTINE

COUNTRY

. DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISALS

CINTRAL INTELLIOENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

CUBA/MEXICO/PANAMA

24 AUGUST 1964

TOCS DB-315/00518-61

DISTR: 27. AUGUST 1964

- SUBJECT

ATTEMPT OF MIRR LEADER TO SEER A PILOT TO BOMB

A VESSEL TRADING WITH CUBA NEAR THE PANAMA

CANAL; OFFER OF A MEXICAN GENERAL TO ASSIST THE

DRE IN ITS ACTIVITY

UNITED STATES MIAMI, (25 AUGUST 1964)

REF

IN 61124

FELD REPORT NO.. UFG-5756

A LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER WHO IS WELL ACQUAINTED WITH

MARITIME MATTERS IN FLORIDA.

SOURCE HAS SUBMITTED A LARGE

NUMBER OF REPORTS BASED ON THE DEBRIEFING OF CUBAN REFUGEES

AND HẠS BEEN A CONSISTENTLY RELIABLE REPORTER ON THE PLANS

AND ACTIVITIES OF ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS ENGAGING IN BOAT

OPERATIONS:

1. A PILOT IS BEING SOUGHT BY ORLANDO ZOSCH AVILA, LEADER OF

THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR

INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY); TO FLY A

PLANE FOR THE MIRR FROM AN UNIDENTIFIED SOUTH AMERICAN COUNTRY

CLOSE TO THE PANAMA CANAL FOR THE PURPOSE OF EOMBING A MERCHANT

VESSEL SOUND FOR CUEA.. THE STRIKE WOULD TAVE PLACE AFTER THE VESSEL

LEAVES THE CANAL.

2. ACCORDING TO AN UNIDENTIFIED PERSON WHO IS THE UNCLE OF

JULIO GIARAU (PHONETIC) AND WHO IS A MEMBER OF THE DIRECTORIO

ILA TORLATIAI COnTRIDE IATOiMALIA ATOCUDE IDA MASICaRi DATEDRO Ol RDA UnITed BeARCA MIChIn the MeADLaS Of lDA RAplODAgO LATA. TItlE

B. U.B.C. BACA 79J AD! TD%: MA TARAMINOS OF TOYAO Of MIND LO ADY MAUDAS TO AN UNMUIDOTIZeN PATAOR IS prOMIDITOS DY lAT

CONFIDENTIAL

свож

CONTROLLED DISSEM

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI MAVY

COAST GUARD

ICS SECDEE NSA NIC NO USE OÇI ONE OCR

FBI

BORDER PATROL CUSTOMS

I&N'S

---

## Page 3

CONTROLLED DISSEN

IN <112.4

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCSDB-315/0051910E .2

61

REVOLUGIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL (DRE, STUDENTS' REVOLUTIONARY DIREC-

TORATE) WITH CONNECTIONS IN MEXICO, THE DRE HAS BEEN APPROACHED BY

AN UNIDENTIFIED MEXICAN GENERAL IN VERA CRUZ WHO HAS OFFERED TO

ASSIST

THE GROUP IN ITS ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES. THE GENERAL

SUGGESTED THAT IF IT WERE POSSIBLE TO SABOTAGE A CUBAN VESSEL AT

THE PORT OF VERA CRUZ, HE WOULD BE WILLING TO COOPERATE. HE REQUESTED

$3,4DE FROM THE DRE FOR HIS COOPERATION. THE GROUP ALLEGEDLY DOES

NOT TRUST THE GENERAL BUT. PLANS TO TEST HIM FOR RELIABILITY.

3. FIELD DISSEMS CINCLANT, COMAWESTFOR, CINCSO, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, BORDER PATROL, CUSTOMS, I&NS, AND USCG. (ALSO.

SENT MEXICO CITY.)

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

