104-10172-10360 | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

Cre CL Be
G- Qe. Gola
Lente nie SKoorelucre,

: Chef de la Section consulatte
bet Stnrbatiade del URSS

panrccile Shs 52ie
Ad WEB oe Wwe
[PE © 400 leon Bh a
g* Veta SH e- "
Show lee”
SO-I-ST-

va


TURN TO CIA
round Use Only
Be Not Reproduce

RuscaP / pe “4-CE SECRET ce
i :

atin

PERSONAL INFORMATION DATA 201-150156 @

“* QoLuB, Grigoriy Ye.
or cavetowe QgtaB, famy

‘Dare OF ansevat

ae

ite 4n Finland, very attractive. Hina Fedorovna (erepea.
B. 1927, arr. 5 Bov 56 (Orarjz0ce). B. 2h Hoy 27 (G mlh2356)-
ao a.

DOCUMENTATION

glo
mere? Koove Finnish rather well (Lohvate).,16ubj's Finnish
lveaker than Ivan Y. SERORYEV's (
Speaks only Russian & Finnish acc:

vounded 6 times: Eele is lst foreign assignent.

Ob
oT aenar, Betiloa, Titereters, +1) Wen (Lolaater] abowed

\Subj photo children, Subj became quite emotional & aluost °
emarked that be ani his wife have wanted to have children ror past 6
lyre., tut bave had no success. Appeared pleasant to source, but after
sormevine

‘t ruthless interview with some Finn mothers vho vere begging him

SECRET


SECRET

Piasonaity (Weblte, wow of sooner, bedbles, Literature, chess)

fom 0. ygg ‘SECRET

vce ee



a SECRET
"s Replaced Ivan Yefimovich SERGSYEV, known RIS.

Yurly
VOROHIN.& Subj, also SERGRYEV. V. invited himself to dinner with Subj
jat_ source's home. Subj, VOROXIN & vives vent source's for dinner,
Bubj tald source "this

Speaking
9th century Russia. Hecht, throagh|9
Hiliiker (Ch/Pol Sec), met Jane Kichline who obtained « report for Bas.
Hecht reported that GOLUB very down on the An Enb & America. Wanted to

CUNEO Suc

SECRET



| COMBACTS - contimed.
| Kttended conmalar Corps inan 09 ly apr 57 ad épvie to Colicdtan

gl Ql
Docender, [VAINOLORY/12) told [WARIATIOR'T) the following
OU{¥/3) passed to station. GOLUB hed recently complained to Johannes
that the Finn security palice vare not paying any attn to
cases of British & American eopicnag: in Pinl, adding thet the Sove
| bed info regarding Western espionage in Finl & vould be gled to
furnish it to the security police. SOLUS said som of the Western

. cases vere ald A gcos nev. Did not elatora’
VIRGLAININ's reply vas to GOLUBO[V/I) then said it vould beboove AIS

(shes
“e

san 58

te. Source did not say vhat

officers in Bele to be as careful as possible cause it quite possible
peeled

