'104-10194-10037) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

ECHET

MEMORANDUM-FOR:-- General Counsel

t SUBJECT : Request for Determination of Creditable
Service - ‘fr. David A. Phillips

3 1. This nemorandun requests a determination as to
whether service performed for CIA by Mr. David A. Phillips -
as an independent contractor - during the period August
1950 until 3 Narch 1954 and again for the period 19 August
1958 until 15 March 1960 can be considered as creditable
service under CIARDS. Mr. Phillins, currently a GS-13
staff employee assigned as Chief, Latin America Division,
DPO, plans to retire in early May 1975S. i>

3
2, Mr, Phillips was a resident of (Santiago, Chile] in i
1950 running an English-language newspaper when he was asked :
to work with the CIA Station there, Headquarters granted a
Provisional Prene rion? Clearance for his use on 2 May 1950
under Proje€t [FULMINATER. The operational file contains a :
project approval forFULMINATER-1 (Mr. Phillips) issued iG
31 May 1950. in the amount of $65.00 ($50 per month salary
plus $12.50 oxpenses) for the month of June 1950 and an
mount of $780 for FY 1951, An operational dispatch,
§. TCS-A}1064 dated 10 July 1950, from the Chief of Station,
tlo-Az Santiago] requested that the first payment be wade 1 August
1950 for the gonth of July 1950 in the amount of $50.00 to . '
Mr. Phillips’ bank account in Fort Worth, Texas, A payment
in the amount of $50 was to be made on'the first of each

month thereafter until furthor notice”. \e -33

3. On 17 Novenber 1950, the Chief of Station, (Santiagay
advised Headquarters that the Station had acquired a safe
apartment for Mr. Phillips to be used by Mr. Phillips in
having an agent polygraphed by a Headquarters polygraph team.

a

Cosssh



4. Mr. Phillips states:

“During this period I recall a number of activities
undertaken for the Station, and I travelled to New York for
clandestine training. The file indicates "He was originally
approved operationally to handle the complex Soviet espionage
caso OF LFULAITNATER=2. Mis. conduct of this case was considered
excellent&%.' Also, *It will be recalled that Headquarters
was vory pleased with the printing job...which he had done.'
The latter was indicative of a number of such chores, when I
staycd behind in my plant after the, employees had left for
the night, printing leaflets, booklets, etc. I also handlod
agents and did a number of spotting and assessing jobs for

the Station.

"I signed a new contract on 25 January 1952 for
$500.00 per month which ran until the termination date of
31 August 1953, (Actually this was in the form of a loan
which was paid off at the rato of $500.00.. The advance was
used to purchase printing equipment which allowed me to do
certain work fegsthe Station, but which I retained.)

“After! termination of the contract on 31 August I
remained in /{Chilg until 4 March 1954, During this poriod I
recruited a[CPJagent who still works for the Station--and
was a cabine ember under [Al de] On 3 February 1954
Headquarters asked that I be made available for another
assignment. The Station pointed out that I was working on
the recruitment, and that I and my family were planning on
a Furopean vacation. Headquarters again requested my asgign-
ment. Thus I departed for the Guatemala project in early
March, abandoning my free family trip to Europe (tickets
paid for by advertising in my papor} and leaving my fanily
bshind to pack up. I accepted this assignment without knowing
where it was, or for how long it would last. Indeed I did

not even have a contract. ,
(g~23

"I worked for the Agency in etteesy then, between
1 August 1950 until departure for PRSUCCESS on 4 'farch 1954,
I was always available and when I finally did leave it was
for Agency business rather than ny own.”

Bl


5. As indicated in ‘Mr, Phillips’ statement above, he
became an Agency contract enployee on 4 March 1954 in
connection with Project PSSUCCESS. The following is a
record of his employment history beginning 4 March 19543

Date * Action
4 March 1954 Contract Employee
31.July 1954 Contract terminated
1 August 1954 Contract Employee
31 March 1955 Contract terminated
1 April 1955 Excepted Appointment Staff Employee
6 February 1956 Resignation Staf€ Employee
7 February 1956 Excepted Appointment Staff Agent
13 August 1958 Resignation Staff Agont
19 August 1958 Contract Agent
13 March 1960 Contract terminated
14 March 1960 Excepted Appointment Staff Employee

6. On 13 August 1958, Mr. Phillips resigned from the
Agency as a staff agent with the intention of opening a public
rolations firm in Havana, Cuba. In anticipation, however, of
using him operationally in Cuba, Wil Division requested that a
contract be prepared for him as an independent contractor with
compensation to be $7200 por annun. The contract information
checklist stated that Mr. Phillips would bo ongaged in PP
activities "as assigned by the Chiof of Station, Havana
according to Station requirements”, On 11 August 1958, the
Chief, WH Division’ sent a cable to the Chief of Station,
Havana stating that Mr. Phillips was leaving CIA to start
his own firm in Havana and that "Headquarters arranging employ-
ment Mr. Phillips at $7200 per year effective 15 August as
contract agent to carry out such KUGAGE tasks as COS may assign.
Payment details being pouched.” On 16 Soptember 1958, the
Chief, WH Division sent another cable to the COS, Havana
stating that based on talks with Ambassador Walter Ponnelly
in New York, Ambassador Donnelly stressed the need to supply
a programming technician to Radio ‘aficas\as soon as possible.
The cable further stated: "Since PCS officer with these

. talents due arrive {Caracag mid-October, current need is for

TDY (Caracas possibly early as week of

Mr. Dave Phillips,
Liceaseh piel one month.”

22 September and
ler 1¥ jortt



7. The contract for Mr. Phillips, effective 19 August
1958, -was amended to reflect additional componsation while
serving outside Cuba. The amendment read, in part: "In full
consideration for the purchase of such information and services
you will be compensated in an amount calculated at the rate of
$7200. per annum except that for those periods of time during
which you aro performing services necessitating certain
specialized professional skills on a full time basis outside
the country of your present permanent assignment, you will be
compensated at the rate of $13,000 per annua.” Travel and i
operational expenses were authorized as follows: "Nhile
performing those tasks for which you will be compensated at
the rato of $13,009 per annum, as set forth in paragraph
one (1) above, you will be advanced or reinbursed funds for
necessary expenses incurred in connection with such operational
travol as may be directed or authorized. by the Government. f
This may include per diem.in lieu of subsistence in the course
of such travel and while on temporary duty away from your
permanent post of assignment overseas. In addition, you will
be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational
expenses as specifically approved by the Government. Payment
and accounting for tho items sot forth herein will be in
conformance with applicable Government regulations."

8. The following information is supplied by Mr, Phillips
concerning his Cuban assignment:

"In the summer of 1958 I resigned from the Agency with
the intention of opening a public relations firm in Havana, :
Cuba. In discussing this the then-Chief, then-WH Division, =
Col. King asked ne if I would work for the Agency in Cuba.
Understanding that this referred to part-time work which would
allow me to pursue my own endeavor, I agreed and a contract
was drawn up and made effective 15 August 1958, This was in
Washington. The Station in Havana was advised on 11 August
prior to my departure on 13 August,

"After settling in and renting an office 7 Havana I
was asked if I would travel on full-time Agency work.
cable on 16 September 1953--about one month 3 yealie ereeree in
Havana--roquested that I prepare for u TDY to ‘a 43}
‘perhaps one month’. I replied that I would E peau oo go
‘anytine after 24 Septemher'. My contract was amended to
indicate that I might be called on for future travel outside
cuba. T did in fact go to Caraca3\on 28 September.

lo-


~ ip-it
“This trip set a pattern which fontinued during
my eighteen months in Cuba. I travelled| several times on
the project which began with the(Caracas|trip--an area-wide
television developmental project--renaining outside Cuba
_ long periods. This continued through late summer of

“Fidel Castro toppled Batista the last night of
1958. From that time I was devoting most of my time to the
Agency. I ran, from my office, a country-wide press service.
I handled several agents. In the summer of 1959 I was
instructed by the Station to attend a meeting with a group
of Cubans plotting against Fidel Castro. . (See Memorandum
for the Record of 6 August 1959.) The last sentence of my
report on this neoting read: ‘With the new death penalty
in Cuba for anti-revolution activity, it is not hard to
imagine that at least one member of this group might inform
to the government.’ That was prophetic. The Cubans in the
meeting, with two exceptions, went to jail where several of
them remain to this day. There was some indication that
the meeting might have been bugged. I was advised of this
while in the U. S, (still working on the television project)
and the Station suggested there might be danger in my
returning to Havana. I elected to return.

"By this time (late summer of 1959) Fidel Castro
had eliminated 'public relations', I had no clients, and no
prospect of obtaining them. Despite this I stayed in Havana
until March of 1960 doing nothing but Agency work. When I
did return it was acknowledged that I would be coming back
to staff status (my contract was amended again while I was :
still in Havana to pay for shipment of furniture). Immediately
on arriving in the Washington area I began to work as a staffer
on the Bay of Pigs operation.

“In summary: Despite intent on my part to have a
private business, I began working for the Agency when I arrived.
dn Havana, often in TDY status which was full-time Agency work,
I never obtained a major client for mv public relations firm.

I was always on call and working on instructions from the
Station until recalled for the Headquarters assignment. There
was some risk in much of what I was tasked to do by the Station.”



9. Your determination is requested as to whether
the period from August 1950 until 3 March 1954 and again
for the period 19 August 1958 until] 13 March 1960 can be
considered as creditable service for retirement purposes

for Mr. Phillips.

ee
BR. NeFelice
Deputy Director of Personnel

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Adse

DD/Pers
DDA/OP/CPN, tdhe (9 Apr 75)

D3

