“tos . ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 | i
104-10215-10008) =~ | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ,

,

: ‘OUTGOING MESSAGE
7 a)
i MenALceate sdome

0 0 o a

°
=
3
°
°

Ae COL. ORLANDO aos rT £ DRA NEGUERUELA {201- 247829) DPOB:
28 DEC 12, SAN ANTONIO DE LOS BANOS, CUBA. UAS VERY CLOSE TO

! SECRET
: Aster saan mencven cetera came
i STAFF 200222 DIRECTOR - 795395 -
cour; Lis, wro: ewe /Vily + riniianieheun 4 faieal
: Ne O scranro PER SS) i
Donne MN) i
TO: SANTO DOMINGO INFO LA/NIANI.¥ vo
i . ¥ es Baas ROO BL .
EMUISE ¥ Discag, Te
| REF? SKHTODONINGO 170877 1IN 7a39SL]5 ¥ ® ollie, H
H 3: FOLLOWING ARE. Has aS TRACES On SUBSOURCES REF INFO? SyieHsigiiet Vite)
i
ie :

FULGENCIO BATISTA AND UAS CHIEF OF CUBAN NATIONAL POLICE DEPARTHENT i i
OF INVESTIGATION. ARRIVED IN U.S. 1959 FRON CUBA VIA THE DON REP

AFTER BATISTA OVERTHROUN. OVER YEARS HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN WORKING FOR

I RETURN OF BATISTA TO POWER IN CUBA. LATEST INFO ahs APRIL 1970 :

: . REPGRTED THAT HE YAS SOLICITING PRICES OF ARnAMEHTA FOR NICARAGUAN A

GOVERNMENT. PRESUNE THAT HE MAY KNOW ENGARNET, BECAUSE OF THEIR
STMILAR PRE-CASTRO BACKGROUNDS.

- a ae B. FAU AL PIZAR POSSIBLY IDEN WITH EVELIO ALPI'z
a a R PEREZ {202-2b4344) ppos: 2? NOV 32, ARROYO ARENAS, HABANA, CUBA.

) iinet Samii UAS LE AIR FORCE PILOT AND POSSIBLY A MEMBER OF THE +

: servic ade INTELIGENCTA, A ean UNDER BATISTA. HE FLEW TO FLORIDA 2 4

{

|

|
;
4g |

JAN S94 “FTER BATISTA‘S Per AND WHILE IN U.S. HE WAS APPRAENT
‘CATE: i ft + }
+: ORG: 1
| esr: CHOSS FILE Coz¥ FOR }
1 ext: 29 etd Yo _ id
eneumne orrese cocoa errecane eemetcatme ormcen |
rercston * SEPRODUCTION 8Y OTHER THAN THE (ssuina OFFICE Is pnomemeD gf 2 IMPDET 4
SECRET !


OUTGOING MESSAGE

armenian ate fe
a a re

i
|

SECRET 7
Se alee — o Sica:
STAFF DIRECTOR

con; wo; eu 195395 02."

sureero PER

o' coo

cre Fe Ea i

TARGET OF CUBAN DGI ATTEMPTS TO LURE HIN BACK TO CUBA. OFGU-373,

S-APRIL lb REQUESTED BRQSTHAT HE BE UITHDRAUH FRON PPROGRAN™ BASED ON : i
CONTINUOUS TREATHENTS FOR NERVOUS DISORDER AND RECOGNIZED EMOTIONAL if
INSTABILITY... "PROGRAM PROGABLY REFERS TO QMERALD-ASSTSTED FRENTE |
' REVOLUCTONARIO DEMOCRATICO CFRD} WHICH HAD RECRUITED HIM. IN 1963
ALPIZAR REPORTED, ORL aNs TO BONS CUBAN OIL REFINERY TO.FBI AND CUSTONS. A

| IN 3972 HE Rene TERY QUNER OF MIAMI AIR LEASING CORP. ¥
4... ° @+ BOTH PIEDRA AND ALPIZAR PEREZ ARE SUBJECTS OF EXTENSIVE FSI

“ REPORTS’ AND INTERVIEWS AND BIT POSSIBLE THAT ALPIZAR

[| REQUEST STATION APPROVAL FOR PASSAGE OF NAMES OF PIEDRA AND : |
ALPIZAR TO FBI. NAMING THEM AS SOURCES OF REF INFO IN ORDER TO ASSIST

FGI IN ANY INVESTIGATION THAT THEY MIGHT MAKE INTO AALEGATIONS. ¥
3. FILE: 22-4-2205 e2-2-23/35 200-9-35% 201-2474793 201-Zb4344s * y
2023-64237. | E2.IMPDET-A

“LA COMMENT: INFORMATION PASSED BY EMFETCH-4 RE DOMINICAN AND PUERTO
RICAN EXTRENISTS TRAINING IN PUERTO RICO-

ig
ut i
COORD: OPS/ITG
LA/COG zs
om: 3497 Zn
. Wace La
. “RICHARD iv ANPSON ‘ FISHER ANES
alae cecsrneme ereese 7 AL CAR ae

REPROC JON BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUI _dwiateo *
EPROP JON BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING Jwastes 3g?

