1 104-10065-10386" *

[2022 RELEASE UNDER TH

:SIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION REC

oe os aia
BO psy nal ECRET : FREE pares
i : ae rf, ;
iz 8 p . DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
Loo. CONFI EP/DP@9 INFOS “FILE, RFy -ODPDED, C1
7) mecvnenenvneustwaneceerensacencenccrerencoueren:
78 0624408 ‘PAGE 004 io a :
; ; Cement TOTs°271847Z APR 78°” °° :WASHINGT .213077
ivi: in pei
SECRET
_ © DEFERRED TELEPOUCH 2718467 WASHINGTON 213077 WA,
- Toe
© FROM: £/BNL INFO. EUR/A, SA/DO/0, DC/E/NW pier

SUBJECT: -WNINTEL (NIELAIR NIGALE = FLEMISH ORDER OF MILITANTS

1, THE HOUSE ‘SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS, IN CONNECTION
c WITH ITS ENVESTIGATIONINTO DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JRey HAS
ASKED FOR INFORMATION IN RTACTION FILES ON A NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS
AND ORGANIZATIONS, INCLUDING FLEMISH ORDER OF MILITANTS (VLAAMSE
MILITANTENORDE » VMO), COMMITTEE REQUEST IS NOT LIMITED TO IMMEDIATE
C PERTOD SURROUNDING ASSASSINATION, BUT PRESUME ITS INTEREST FOCUSES
ON ASSASSIN'S ESCAPE ROUTE AND SUPPORT HE OBTAINED WHILE IN EUROPE,
: WE -HAVE NO INFORMATION ON HOW THE VMO CAME TO THE COMMITTEE'S
C ATTENTION,

2. WE. NOTE ‘THAT ‘THE ONLY INFORMATION WE HAVE SO FAR DISCOVERED
: EVEN MENTIONING ‘THE VMO IS THAT CONTAINED IN ‘POSITIVE INTEL (
ss WE HAVE NOT YET
DREDGED THESE UP FROM LIBRARY IN VIEW\NIGALE~PROVISION OF THE
MATERIAL,

3. WOULD LIKE TO BOTH HONOR COMMITTEE REQUEST AND PRESERVE
RELATIONSHIP WITH\NIGALE>, IF POSSIBLE, THEREFORE, REQUEST YOU
DISCUSS COMMITTEE REQUEST WITH \WIGALE MANAGEMENT, DOES NIGALE HAVE
ANY INFORMATION WHICH INDICATES A CONTACT BETWEEN THE VMO AND
AMERICANS DURING PERIOD MARCH 1968 TO 1970? WOULD THEY BE WILLING
PROVIDE IT? -ALSO WOULD ‘NIGALE PREPARE
REPORT ON VMO FOR PASSAGE TO COMMITTEE?

C PLEASE ALSO ASK INIGALE“FOR PERMISSION TO PASS TO COMMITTEE
EITHER SOURCED TO NIGALE-OR

UNSOU! iN a LEASE’ STRESS THAT ANY
C | INFORMATION PROVIDED WILL BE CLASSIFIED AND HANDLED AS SENSITIVE.

a

nr

: 4, FILE: 8209/3, E2 IMPDET.>

© orig: ACvEvBNL | lp 9384) /E/BNLZR (ALTHEA GUY, 9175)3
COORD: SA/DO/0 (MR, GREGG = IN SUBSTANCE), E/BNL/YB (HARRIS),
EUR/A (LACLAIR); REL? DCVE/NW (THOMPSON), .CL BY 034537,

DD NOT REPRODUCE
4 RETURN TO ClA
© END OF MESSAGE SECRET HO 63 ab

