# 104-10185-10138

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10185-10138

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ano. 101 and Tol. the MADemIestOn of retelallon of which l

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT

Fernando NAVELO

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316, 00264-64

21 July 1964

1

'sir CIA

DATE OF

1963 - 1984

Backg did out Only

INFO.

Do Not Reprodues

PLACE &

Washin

. C.-

DATE ACQ. Taly 196

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUAIED

INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE

SOURCEi

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service untll April 4964.

Headquarters Comments

1. The following report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

Individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

Fernando RAVELO, pseudonym "Fermia Rodriguez, " Is the

Panamanian Desk Officer in the Departamento de Liberacion Nacional

(LN) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI - General

Directorate of Intelligence) In Habana. He has never been in

Panama.

• Until Octöber or November 1963 RAVELO was the

number two man in Union Juventud Communista (UJC) in Habana.

RAVELO is a captain in the Army.

Headquarters Comment

1. The reocrds of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on Fernando RAVELO.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

5

3

2

3

1

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY

REP CINCLANT

INA'Y

AIR

CINCSO #

INSA

I & NS

ries

. I OCR

(Notos fiold distribution indicated by "#"'-)

KINFORMATION REPORT InFORMATION REPORT.

VH/SA, BOB

WE/5/R

MICTAGLA

TE ICANADAR!

10-1595, 41-29

WH/ SA/MOB

WE MADR 2 CIR&A

IE/BRITISHI IM

NO PROJECT

VH/SA/R

L/WASH BF IT

(AMMUG-1)

RID/AN

CSCI-≤16/00263301

WHY WAVE

TOTAL WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

LIAISON

COONOIMATIMO NEE

OBBOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

201- None

(20)

---

