# 104-10179-10028

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10179-10028

/2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO Gi

Backgroun:! Uao Only

Do Not Hop duca

. "515

nc',26 OCT 60

TO , DIRECTOR

FROM & HAVANA

ACTION, WH 9

INFO , DCI, D/DCI, DDP, COP, ADDP/A, S/C 2

CIASSIFIEO MESSAGE Ray Mossier

•TAK

S-E-C-R-S-T

ROUT NE

oili

ОСт 26 23127 60

PRIORITY

den

INFO

IN 33743

CITE

DIR

PRITY MASH

HAVA 6507

NO NITE ACTION BOTH

JMNET

1.

23 OCT MANOLO RAY HELD MEETING NATIONAL DIRECTORATE-MRP WHICH ATTENDO

BY AMCALL-1, ALI REPORTS FOLL STATEMENT MADE BY RAY DURING MEETING.

A. MAJOR WILLIAM MORGAN HAD DONE GREAT DEAL FOR MRP, WAS RESPONSIBLE.

FOR OBTAINING MOST OF WEAPONS MRP HAS NOW, AND EVERY EFFORT SHOULD BE MADE HELPE

НІМ.

B. FOUR MONTHS ARE NEEDED PREPARE GROUND WORK HERE PRIOR ANY INVASION

THIS VIEW SENT AMCÍGAR REP MAIMI AND AMCÍGAR HAS DISREGARDED ADVICE IN FAVOR

EARLIER INVASION. WITHIN FOUR MONTHS MRP WILL HAVE 20,000 MILITANTS THROUGHJUT

CUBA. ORGANIZATIONAL FRAMEWORK PRESENTLY ESTABLISHED ALL PROVINCES EXCEPT

PINAR DEL RIO.

Tive?

C. AMMALL AND ANGEL DEL CERO HAVE LEFT ANCIGAR AND NON WORKING PRIMEY

• FOR MRP.

06

• D. (MANUEL NIETO, WHO HUBER MATOS MAN AND AMONG THOSE RECENTLY ESCAPES

FROM MORRO CASTLE, DID NOT FLEE TO U.S. BUT WORKING WITH MRP ÁS CHIEF ACTION

AND SABOTAGE HABANA, SABOTAGE ACTIVITY TO BEGIN WEEX OF 31 OCT.

2. ALl STATED MRP DIRECTORATE URGINS RAY ESCAPE TO U.S. AS SOON AS

S-f-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION 8Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Cop: No

ZIBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

..."

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-B=T

ROUTING

DATE • i

10 .

FROM •

ACTION,

INFO

TQ

PAGE 2

IN 33743 HAVA 6687

INFO

CITE

ORGANIZATIONAL WORK HERE COMPLETED. FEEL ONLY MATTER OF TIME UNTIL HE PICKED

UP AND EXECUTED. MRP MANIFESTO COMPLETED AND WILL APPEAR THIS WEEKEND UNDER

RAY SIGNATURE, STATION FORWARDING COPY, A-I TO SPEND NEXT MONTH SANTIAGO

DE CUBA, WILL RETURN 15 NOV GIVE BINIARIS REPORT ON ACTIVITY.

END OF MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHiCITED.

Copy No.

---

