# 104-10300-10397

## Page 1

AAAAR

104-10300-10397

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

ONLY

EX CONF "ENTIAL

KOUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Lee Harvey OSWALD

FROM:

Michael E. Schneeberger

Security Analysis Group

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

C/SAG

DD/RS/

DD/S

D/S

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

18 Вінї

3/08/1158

EXTENSION

6009

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO

DATE

24 March 1977

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Drow a line across column after each commenl.)

(2) Phane no sta shal

I Whisk action d you

Mank-taken?

Brime Thats

10.

11.

12.

13.

15.

- FORM

3-02

610 USEDIRENOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONRDENTIAL

24 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Lee Harvey OSWALD

OS#351 164

On 22 March 1977 Gary M. LONNQUIST, Office of

Communications, and the undersigned met during a social

engagement (a party in his honor prior to his PCS to

Manila);

During social conversations, LONNQUIST mentioned

an incident which occurred in the Security Records Division

file room relating to the OSWALD security

files. LONNQUIST

was subsequently interviewed by the undersigned and Jerry

on 23 March

Quer tele subst, any the doling sio, and on

2.

Sometime between May 1975 and January 1976 while

an Office of Security employee assigned to the Security

Records Division file room, LONNQUIST was requested to

search SANCA in the name of Lee Harvey OSWALD. This request

was in connection with a Freedom of Information case involving

also

assigned to the security Records Division, made the request.

This search met with positive results, thus making CONNQUIST

aware of the fact that OSWALD's name was entered in SANCA.

3.

subsequently, LONNQUIST came across a file which

he described as relating to OSWALD, and he intended to tile

same with the rest of the OSWALD files on the shelf. (LONN>

QUIST described this file as covert, thin, and having a

higher file number than the rest of the OSWALD holdings.

He

could not remember the name which appeared on the outside

of the file but thought that it may have been one of OSWALD's

akas.

He further related that he looked inside the file and

believed that it was related to, or possibly identical with

the regular OSWALD holdings.

While attempting to refile this

covert file, he observed that all of the regular OSWALD

holdings were permanently charged to the Security Analysis

group; thus he belleves he sent the covert file to the

security Analysis Group.

CONSDENTIAL

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 007472

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

4.

Later, LONNQUIST again queried SANCA in the name

which he saw on the covert file but found no record.

Perturbed, he queried Francis DAVIS (Indices Chief)

why he could find no record in the name of a file which he

Fine no recoral,

as to

knew existed. He specifically asked DAVIS if the name

(which he cannot remember now) could have been erased from

SANCA.

DAVIS replied that she did not think that was

possible. He then apprised John BOLLINGER of the above,

since BOLLINGER had processed the OSWALD Freedom of Infor-

mation Act request.

BOLLINGER made unknown inquiries for

some three to four

hours concerning the possible erasure

of a name from SANCA and finally told LONNQUIST that there

was nothing to worry about, that he (BOLLINGER) took care

of the matter. (LONNQUIST also advised that he made his

immediate supervisor, Chuck TACKETT,

aware of the incident.

LONNQUIST advised that he heard nothing further concerning

the incident but privately harbored doubts about the

resolu-

tion of the incident.

He mentioned that he entertained

thoughts of reporting the incident to the Inspector General

but has not discussed it with anyone subsequently until he

apprised the undersigned on the night of 22 March 1977.

5. LONNQUIST was advised by the Deputy Chief, Security

Analysis Group that the Security Analysis Group would make

the incident a matter of official concern and would begin

immediate inquiries. LONNQUIST was cautioned not to vocalize

allegations

regarding possible erasures of SANCA entries or

possible illegal destruction of official files.

However,

he was told that he was perfectly free to bring the entire

matter up with the Inspector General if he felt it necessary.

Mineb 22

Security Analysis Group

2

CONFIDENTIAL

---

