Viod-foeta-t0306 [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

7 SECRET/EYFS ONLY.
N (ers ot
\ Deputy Chief,” CI 23 September 1964
| :
1
i Deputy Chief, CI/Project
i

HILINGUAL - €J222M
Correspondence of Marina CSWALD

1. The attached subject item is from subject toa
girl friend in Leningrad, The writer evidently in reply to
addressee's letter discusses at length reproaches made to her
by addressee which indicate that she would like to contime
her friendship with addressee. She mentions her present living
conditions and reminisces about the time she spent with ad-
dresseee

2.° This iten will be of interest to She FET gnd to
Mrs. Pgerter of CI/SIG.

Gs ¥ a
poo

\ Attactment

SECRFT/TYES ONLY



13-00000

_64522BM i RE/kie

to KHONTULLVA, Galina Potroynw
General Delivery

‘Leningrad, K-67
: fr’ OSWALD, Marina, Mrs;
629 Belt Line Ra.
Richardson, Texas
‘Language: - Russian Date: 19 September 196)

Summary & Partial Translation f 7

Writer starts her long 7-page letter with an inscription on top of
the page "My confession to you Galka (dimiritivefrom Galina)," Writer
further states "quite a long time passed since I received "wonderful®
letter from you. However I am not angry at you. Your reaction has
been quite normal. I decided however to wait with my reply. This
morning and the previous days I thought S===s whether it is worth while
to write to you again." Writer then continues wondering what the Russian
newspapers had written about her and feeling hurt’ that addressee had
forsaken and apparently criticized her in her previous letter which she
believes also a consequence of some news items that addressee had read
about writer. Writer indicates that addressee should know her better
than anyone else because they were so close for such a long time. She
reminisces about the time they spent together and reminds addressee that
when she obtained her first job, the first thing she did was to buy
addressee a present. Writer further tells addressee that her conscience
is clear and that she does not have to apologize to addressee for anything,
however she would like to hear from addressee and to continue their friend=
ship,which is of course,up to addressee to do. Writer repeats that she
is the same and has not changed since they parted. Evidently in reply to
addressee's reproaches writer states that she is not “money mad", she
must however think about her two children and for that reason since
reporters somehow got hold of her husband's diary and published it, she
then agreed to let LIFE Magazine publish the diary with her remarks for
which she received renumeration. This money will help to educate her
children and will enable them not to depend on other people. Writer
calls addressee's attention to the fact that the children have a "mark"
against them and for this reason she has always to think about them

. first. Writer further indicates that addressee apparently reproaches

her for not returning to the "homeland". writer points out however that
things are not as simple as it looks from afar. It appears that addressee
suggested that writer should not have taken any money from newspapers.
Writer states that it is easy to talk about humanitarian deeds and ideas
but it is difficult for one to act on a high plain when one is faced with
the problem of feeding oneself and little children. Writer then discusses
y performance of the Leningrad ballet in New York and indicates that she is

SECRET 5
EVES ONLY > :



13-00000

See aa:
Bo Be eyes SUNN ao

aig sq 4 —

- proud of the accomplishments of “our ballet". Writer further discusses
: her present living conditions, states that the neighbors are very nice __
to her$ wmf states that she reads PUSHK” 's poetry, and that she t#¥3 Zice/
to speak to her older girl in Russian, however, the latter answers in
i English only. At the end writer again reminisces about the time they
spent together and hopes that she will hear from addressee.

sepnel
EYES OLY



13-00000

SECRET .
Gs EYES OLY . .

BERET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI Staff

ATTENTION. .: Mr. T, K,. Chalmers
H FROM : Deputy Director of Security
(Investigations and Operational. Support)
SUBJECT : Project SRPOINTER |
Informant BANJO 4
oe ft U19 144. Besserteceeeeeeees| Cor aueirereree

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Victor R.

oo —~47~Ytem ‘BM is from Mrs. Marina OSWALD, 629 Belt
"Line Road, RichaFdson, Texas to Galina Petrovna KHONTULEVA,
General Delivery, Leningrad K-67.
j
| Attachment

1

i

ev aad

scorer SECRET
EYES py"



13-00000

“sO SUG
oe

eg po canon ES a
| as a . 4 - A855 7 oe - , Bo oe . os :

ae ee



13-00000

2

oie: ad dye. CB PPES |
clicee
|
i]

peor ; lias,

Depere2 ero eye 7

frre 0

Gresnse ours saree Glave
@ wren nO , ware woud ey.
| gecoree ” metetueeo oS pide). OS wa.
a Bo 0 pre odizoarace, Ui Gos peace
“d Beg eters perce pecypreeceteee DD, Preece]
po ee reporeypare 4. ofan, Gigew
Fee Pee afapiggewe pw

eemoro py t  O Pow, elmerpet Leen.

Ooo
LUN were t® sek emate 7 Kare2? eer”
Zo. owe, = wee wwano a> ee ae

fb ease Sex oto mre E Coc”, zo
| py p 2 ie dine coe? oLeeee.
ye negtgn el fo eee + guano |
SRR pee ae Pee nee eee

. Tioritenccty ne AG eee eS, | Pee eos.
‘Drees effe  enieyeyces ee

| Hecmcoes oF werner. PPes nee 8
| 3-60 | wexoFyfhnex eoocivewed, |
mod Beppe reer eee eee ereenes

gh
wes 3 Cs a


13-00000

Pee sapoua ue Fr cece yee |
il oR or per ponte we ade
Oy ete? Dao eremeeny , recent eee
Bey Gree’ obmracewe Cp Ramer , J ee

POSS poreeyS HLA

eet Pn meer
ft ealnk ARO OG sat” “tease
8 Bapeetsy "  KqoueFop U9 Vnegooteae
Gre one 6 ede tcave. Porm
Cunce enn o gytnerume, Bape
7 ecergaees, Ef gees vemewdes

By fgAR oe eeerrelt oo arytoner,
A2.<0, oo ee FF Rete Re ache goats
i pBanens GE ede (po we onysegpe |
Welecp ence nee SP revere — 9 see Seri
are Me f piner vo covec2 vemap were)
ee py | Rr Bo Phe:
WS TOR aL nee, Bae



13-00000

~ Leper aftorenen

Meme, are

| Obiseccieenee "TG? oad fame:

~ SeeneT
PES BY,

Bruit | PO MeceegD ee PD
woes”

o. ame Fece

= oe |
|
i
!

Sr ere’ | 2

Ge me eagpluewee
: ie Be

LC fp crfanee RF eFewe cwocpy) |)
Pace ebifee, ~Oe  a

L nee,  <e

re pong tig mage

{
| 4a ere Fee oc aRevecs ypoucece |

ete nee ppreneeecuettitre GP cea FRee,
Yffoe wi weer Voom Gyecotuuy

SOP Gereehe peo re P- Oe

Tae 5 we nwo seer GYtoewa

PP cafourerie er Aer ecugpenee <8 P

dacesoew odlep ).e polo , are

iv epee S2le mepayters, Fi
| Gye , re Jeeeere Fed? Oe GAS
Ceara were eons fpeete Hoga
Cree yen” edad Pompe re foe
| nae phgpec Pek, Gace: 6 qummatase
Momsy — want le, gps Wr eeneceos eee.
ann ep eee reer beer.

sonnet tacit tian oat

Nee 2 gem
: EyES Uny


13-00000

Sete”

ais ou
j * _
Ccasase , Mave Bits eerreceed,

“le Peopred ee erceangpeey 6. P come
od ‘peaceT® Fete , 27D ~ Ke efoee

a)

NL © | cecapeend severe fico} [ard Bor crectotiy
& pesto Coo gaeuero LOPE Pon,
we Leg, comme, Y carw ec y |.
Ne 7 eee mep eek Bee peter 8 waren,

oe paneéee peo higher ep eye

: $a poe Steed hss | eco eyeerer ateo-
ou Aocgfa ees Five GOP Oe ore pe
Bae pommece ayy enero Tenner Ks ncete
faepoewrereed. ia seggforron., ocd go”
foe? Pep een ere me | eee oe
| Cana | AeP8.. tee cancel, Fe 7
1 eteeetp phase perotere a & agebene
eeypge + ppercte 2 rete.) Spec
39 ee er ae,

Ce ee

1 wecte nce OFecege® eee
goa | ’ ee keeee |
NA AGmegprte Kecofepren 9
1 CAmapecs . He Ligh rytehFofale cons ~

ee US 8 Same o
“ EVES cnt deat


13-00000

SRT a
Siu

~s—

Senin. Br, efe

‘
pe ele Ae gokogeds VO Beer mee
ae or faays Ue gfe ep oe oY lo)

: seco pe eon? agp Pe ne

? “Phbattaeoch, of nee Fecap
ne Ka 2 Fo wenee onaeee execs
Gionafrip 569 | APR Ar sec F2 2 ore
pawn ze SI ecerustotecPaten

| pte octane ' .
al Somenasiy eeroGervemity ocleyees Gy

joa weap reece deeeoeypon, Carita,

i

eget fr eater eete na Yiyco ee Jee
e | eeeenes apo Fees, rong? tee 21d
| Ate A? OPER GF eee ee Cee
mere eharo Aecetedy 8 PO are eeney
i Cope ow Mepe Crue epee FS.
Ae Cop cs ero cen neo ee xe
| Reo scocacrp (Ke eeveaw Eyenwzee / |
E Caica coer irr satytieco afro x
SS osQ~nes GE ccrerReccer wreecoc) meee, |

Cm ey we ephesenite AePomos  }
f° perce terre. Cones ce oe

SECRET
EVES. GHLT


13-00000

“genet
AS ony

; or eee wer Soe reg.
“ Cxgzen,
Bee~ i» <
ote Preece am
we Pearce |” ?. ° *
ete aed 2
ery, eee.
. PC agpacenen,
:

> SEGRE
mois) ge -


13-00000

net
as a
| Dobeapetroce - sot. Zire Pesan

ae Coleen cece Perey - FFP etcpee}
5 Ss i
| 2a08> exe | noery Wor fee eM BR I
weno ee x congo SEF rm eerZO , be

1 4 € cencSGflee a fee ea! -
iy Catreteare . One 7 .
o ceoke. Glteconee LYE | EOP LOR

ae
“ eeSeew  gauageucces, eaco omer
ee, goceneee, Bee SB aPeeeS |

6) OP OER, GS rooroasy Te Spo SEE |
“Np ae oapocPe, 39 worefrwe orien eemneh
lpopewcee |, Moteur Pape Z|
occegte werce®. Deloria cist pypens |
etre & enone pepe cen
tf pee edeces Vee eee OGernwes
io Arlen weeny —~— Pano petitive ee eos
So eemeger eon eceeseet2 0 ster coroe,
er06e. Drgyessce oe
: Se 28P GEL ne
Dee 2 2d eo ar cee, DP ern
NUTS | f@neee eetgle2 oc ee r< freee
° PN op OF Bere, mwedeer eens | tele see eFZe2aes)
he te Yee: Pr egg iycecce meee |S
on eo 6 Hitewemelte weve Ae « pelea Ao Ray)

|
'
i
'

A Ee Sorcpuge Qa Crape |
| OF PEE Orcas ere 2K e

| Ovens poo fe oectee Fe, CC; ie
‘ Caece sed weg “ye aa: ba
wpe apes Fe IPR
: rd Ce sete? Caoce. ;

auc mere re a ES

soul

“pest


13-00000

© 7 e

se

, .
aso

Aor oe ec,
Glas. Grearina Secale
629 BCL kine Fok

ul eae

