104-10166-10119 i {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

£

-from automatic
classification,

-RETURN TO CIA

Background Use.Only
Bo Not es



+ nme we tect 8 Ce ee ee ee ee ee

wore RE Cole me ee ge eb ee bee ee Bee
roar ees ~ : TF pater

oe comet sorrnan : cee
cd harsbiesemsane pisses ° a =

2 mang uM Paity Pact Berotiations “DATE OF BOAT 3 Beptender 190] a

+ Detween the Boviaiesto _ 7 :

x. Dewocrata Cristiaso (EDC) HO. PACES 2 ‘ .
° and other Cubes Exite a . at i.

+ G@vganisations

"+ 2. MOC Plaas for Action

OF Cuba

B duly 19809

peaber-of s group of Cuban caigres tiatoee tu the techaiques”
itaformation colle tion ‘The croup has prowiged useful :7
Feporte for over tvo-y. xt

fron Br. Marcos wecripiee Re

“ge of exrty duby.1093, -afec
Bonaneen, a
ce: ano

ar? We had made a unity pack ie Comandos L
“pegenization oad by Antonid"tlesta del Yall.

io contributes .
Srunine, ‘and asdistance io military intelligence, and.were to | |’
», provide three navil cuits and woe B-26 aircraft.which the :
== already | had im ite posssasion, The:MDC was
21 boats and a team of nse to be tafilerat
ies . : eH

he MOC was! ae Begotiat: untiy pact for action
, -Birectorio Revolisionarie Betudieathl ADAR, Student:
i Direstorate) Al atta}
7 Roérigeas said that-the negotiations with ths Movie
Becuperscioa 3 Revolucionaria (an. Movenent for brvoluga
Recovery) ‘bad proved unsucce: ec Manuel Urtine’
_ ETT tgpets ta be Ia tyree of GAP eae

ee


e ns. 3
: : “ . 4
te = : A eee 3 :
: rt &, Tee KOC plansed to bey a new boat with whic’ Yo engage ia | :
am unepecified action om tbe Cider ccasta, tet the execution ed
HGesreretoreta! ef this plea cepeectd om the financial assistaace waics :
i a * Qhe organization expectbd to receive fros Poe. ie

F . 6.” Tee HOC planned to stage seother air raid against the Belot
+ oil refiacry in the city of Sabana, tn! tine using as

-, aircraft expectally prepares for the raid and vith adequate”

oT. tombe to deotroy the target, The group van

@ repetition of what happened ourtas the last raid,

Sete! het td

Is ts “the, sane subeoutce reported: 7
Hitch. conmane: 26 duly 1963, that Laureano Batista

lla was belicved to be saking preparations for nYa pla -
7 to Boab the ofl reYinerids jn Regla,.ilsbana Province, ta
2 the near future with a B-29 aircraft wnich the, MDC ta,
Ate possession as of } July,

4

——

ve

ms,

