104-10186-10077) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ‘a

Tals material eomtains information necting te Matioeal Dafonas of tho Caited States within tne meeaing of the Rapicnage Lave, THe
10'UTe gece tod aod tou the Unnomiaice or roeielon of which te bay tenner to ta uncutbortnd peree Mprenibited Oy lee.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEY

Country Cuba REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00607-65
suwect “Juan Carlos" (an alias) DATE DISTR. 9 February, 1965
RETURN TO CIA NO. PAGES 1 :
ind Use Only REFERENCES CS-311/00116-64 ‘
ar "964 .
uly :

DATE OF 1 og “, ,

Washington, D. C.
_ & p
bate aca, January 1965 FIELD REPORT NO.

source,

7E_ APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE,

a TNIORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE

A pans Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Hea¢quarters Comments = a

The following report 1s one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checkiggwvtbh this Agency.

1. “Juan Carlos" is an officer in the South American Section
of the Departamento Ilegal (Illegal Department) of the Direccion
General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence -
DGI). Prior to 1962 he was an attache at the Cuban Embassy in
Chile, but due to a personal guarre) with "Ulises Delmar," of the
Cuban Embassy in Chile, he was returned to Cuba.

2. “Juan Carlos" was born in about 1940, He is five feet
seven inches tall, weighs between 160 and 170 pounds, and has
a heavy Build, He has dar’c brown hair and light blue or green

eyes.

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
or “Juan Carlos."

SECRET Car
NO FOREIGN DISSEM jena core
(texaze

meee

I&NS

