“tod-0796-10108 (2022 RELEASE one THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

+ oat ea ‘ a .
Oy ood
i CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
id ‘This material contains information afecting the Nations! Defense of the ‘United Gtates within the meaning of (30 Kepionege Laws, Thue
ILEC Stata ene TH toe trainee oe Portaton ef Whe We any souasee Wea wanatoatend porse we breubiies OF bee
SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
REPORT NO. CSCI-316/01642-64

country Cuba
X
\ Susect Ramon SINOBAS Casado DATE OISTR, 13 October 1964
3 _ RETURNTOCIA ..
NO, PAGES
Background Use Only
REFERENCES Do Nat Reproduce
care of 1954
rer g Washington, D.C
pce 4 Washington, D. C.
ate aca.October 1964 _ FIELD REPORT NO.” .

TWIS 1S UNEVALUATED, INFORMATION. SOUPCE_GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE,

source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

‘Headquarters Comments cg : y
The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental —

. information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the
individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.
Source met Ramon SINOBAS Casado about September or October

1933 at the former headquarters of the Departamento de Liberacion
Nacional (National Liberation Department - LN) of the Direccion
General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI)
when the Department was located at Calle Sa and 94, Miramar, Habana,
Cuba. At the time source met SINOBAS, SINOBAS was assigned to
the Departamento. Ilegal(Illegal Department) of the DGI. Source
recalled that SINOBAS, at the time of the meeting, had recently

2 ‘ .returned from a foreign assignment. Source further recalled that
it was approximately at this time that Ramon Cesar CUENCA left on
a trip to Poland. SINOBAS and CUENCA were very friendly.
1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12 _

Headquarters Comments

1. In a report dated 17 April 1962, from a resident of Mexico who
has reported reliable information for about three years, it was
reported that Ramon SINOBAS was the First Secretary of the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico City.
a report dated 22 May 1962, said thas

Ss 2. A fairly reliable source in

i Ramon SINOBAS, Casado, First Secretary of the Cubao “= an :
7 SECRET | a
1 sens” |

REP CINCLANT. CINCSC# I&NS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
f= Tow. Tawar NAVE Tam THsa RAK Far z =

[ners Feld dirbution indivoted by "879

yA ASAVE :
Be WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

a
Tiong, |

aby



un

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI - 316/01642-64

-2- : fans

Mexico City, was in Mexico because he is intelligent, diplomatic,
aad well neauainted: with protocol,

in Mexico City Jreported, in a document dated 27 November 1962,: that

A usually city fren source with good connections fin the Cuban assy
fasado was the Charge d‘Affaires of the Cuban Enpasay

Ranun SINOBAS'
in Mexico City.

Aa untested source told a usually reliable source, in a roport
dated 10 May 1963, that Fidel CASTRO wanted to.know who the SINOBAS'
were, i.e., the father and son who were located in the Cuban
Exbassies in France and Mexico respectively; CASTRO described thea

as “extremistas.”

In 'a’3l May 1963 report a usually reliable source with good contacts

za Costa Rican Communist Party circles, stated that the wife of
Razon SINOBAS Casado, Charge d‘ Affaires of the Cuban Embassy in
Xexico City, is the former Marta Didier SOLIS Campos, a Costa Rican

Connunist. .

In a report dated 25 June 1963, the following biographic inforastion
was reported on Ramon SINOBAS Casado:

SINOBAS, First Secretary/Charge d'‘Affaires of tho Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City, was born about 1939, He arrived ii
Mexico on 5 March 1962 and carried Cuban passport number 762/108,
His wife, Marta SOLIS Campos de Sinobas (Costa Rican), and
his son, Ramon SINOBAS Solis, arrived on 4 May 1962, and carried
passport number D/§2/245. The SINOBAS' reside at Pachuca 127-203,
Mexico D. F, SINOBAS is a suspected Cuban G-2 agent.

A usually reliable source, in a report dated 4 July 1963, stated that
Raron SINOBAS Casado, First Secretary of the Quban Embassy in Mexico
City, was scheduled to return to Cuba on or about 19 July 1963.
SINOBAS was-not expected to return to Mexico.

A usually reliable source, in a report dated 15 August 1963, stated
that RAmon SINOBAS Casado, First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy

in Mexico City who is vacationing in Habana, "probably" will return
to Mexico; however, SINOBAS' return is not certain,

In a report dated 3 March 1964, a usually reliable source reported
that Ramon SINOBAS, his wife and two children, arrived in Mexico

on 1 March 1964, enroute to SINOBAS' new embassy post ia Santiago,
Chile. Source described SINOBAS' wife as being common and cheap.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM =


: : SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01642-64

, e3-
z

10. A usually reliable source with excellent contacts lip the Cuban
Embassy in Santiago}stated in a report dated 4 March 1964, that
Ramon SINOBAS Casado was replacing Pedro MARTINEZ Pirez, Chargo
d'Affaires ofthe Cuban Eebassy 1n Santiago. | In this saze report,
an @fficial Chilean service Feported that Ramon SINOBAS Casado
wasborn on 25 July 1935, atid that he carried Cuban diplomatic
passport 64/104, itis wife, Marta SOLIS Campos was bora on \
25 December 1935, and carried Cuban diplomatic passport number
64/105. They have two children, Ramon SINOBAS Solis, bora
14 April 1962, and Luis Felipe SINOBAS Solis, born 11 May 1963.

11. In the 17 March 1964 issue of the Chilean newspaper, Ultima Hora,
was. 4 photograph of Ramon SINOBAS Casado, the new Charge d°ATTaires |
of the Cuban Embassy in Sant; 0, as he presented his credentials
to Julio PHILLIPPI, the Chilean Minister of Foreign Affairs, on
17 March 1964. :

12. In a report dated 14 August 1964, it was stated that all Cuban j
a officials in Santiago would-be returning to Cuba via Mexico on
15 August 1964, because of the break in diplomatic relations between
Chile and Cuba. Ramon SINOBAS Casado was included in the group.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

