# 104-10331-10127

## Page 1

1704-10331-10127

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

11 December 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Historical Review Group

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Fredrick C. Wickham, JI.

DO, Focal Point for ARRB

DO Position on Identification of ERTHYROID/3

1.

The Do strongly opposes the release by the ARRB of the

phrase "a good KUBARK asset" that was previously withheld in

Attachment.

The CIA asked the Nicaraguan Service to send

ERTHYROID/3 to Mexico City to help in the interrogation of

Alvarado: Because this was during the Samoza regime, we have

admitted that we had a liaison relationship with the Nicaraguans

and we also have released the cryptonym ERTHYROID. .

ERTHYROID/ 3

became. well known to the Mexicans as the Nicaraguan interrogator

and, of course, was known by his own service.

The phrase "a good

KUBARK asset," however, identifies him as a unilateral source of

the Managua Station unbeknownst to the Nicaraguan and Mexican

Services.

2. The DO often recruits officers, such as ERTHYROID/3, who

are members of

with which it has

a liaison relationship. These assets provide us valuable

information without the knowledge of the service and in many

cases they provide information about the service itself and its

activities.

To reveal ERTHYROID/3's identity and his special

relationship with the CIA would not only personally endanger

ERTHYROID/3 but could cast suspicion on other recruited officers

of other liaison services

and compel them to reevaluate their

unilateral relationships with the CIA

Fredrick C. Wickham,

CL BY 0695930

REASON 1.5 (c)

DECL X1

DRV HUM 2-82

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

. SUBJECT: DO Position on Identification of ERTHYROID/3

IMS/ESG/J. Goins/ 44447/11 Dec 95

Distribution:

Orig &

1 - Addressee

1 - DO/ IRO

1

- ESG/HCS

1 - C/ESG

2

SECRET

---

