# 104-10186-10410

## Page 1

104-10186-10410

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

16-26

SAN SALVADOR

action.

¿LASSIFIED MESSAGE

27

SECRET

PERSON UNIS MOTITICO

ADVANCE COFF

TUTAL COPIES

0.0..

REPRODUCT ICE PHONINITIO

4918

TIME

Lactico Devore

2126

DIR INFO VEXI WAVE CETS SS1X5513

LHO CUBA.

Ma 1.19

SWOT SENT MEXI, WAVES

DIP- 76052

20 JAN651163642

ISS

.:

S$

FiRS

• SI

An

Cila

JPENDING RECES DE ESI SOUT REACTION I EEL NACIE.

HE WOERST ADABL! UNT OF MENTING

TOO ENTHUKES OVE!

REPOSAL WEil Aside!

TORPEDO

2126

WHILE SALVESEL:

HE IS PAFEN RECCINED YES ATILL

YAKE INTERESTINO FRE:

PRESENT IT.

BEING MADE AVAILA TEED

FEELE IT WOULU SE VORGIRCABLE SURFACE MATES GE GE TRAINESS

FOR FOLLOWING SEASONS:

LICKST

91BR

---

## Page 2

=N636V 2

M. CEDESTRO!) HAVE 10 ARREST FOL PENSONS ENETO:SO G.

IT SUNO APPEAS HOT CLUES OF BELIEVE

→ JEDICATED THAT HE WILLING TO CASE THE ARESTS. TATION 16 26

INCLISED TO JOUST THAT IS KOULD FOLLOW THOUGH DUE FEAR. OF

STIRRING UP SALVADORALEFTiSTS, AND LACK DE JURIDICAL GROUNOS

FOR PROSECUTION.

Z. ALTHO A

DILET HAS INONLIE THAT AT LEAST 7S SALVADOIANS

ECEIVED GA: TRAINING REINEEN ARTEL 1953 AND AFIL 1964, HE WAS

ASLE TO FURVISH OILY 35 MAES. JF THESE, LESS THAN HALF ANS

KNOWN TO SE TRUE JAMES. WE THUS FEEL THAT IT LOULD SE SETTER

NOT TO LENTION ANY OF THE GOU DARES, STAND OU THE IS FIGURE,.

AND IXPLY THAT

HAS MADE MARES OF ALL 75 AVAILABLE TO

TO PREGUTELY AUNITING PSOPETIOUS TIRE TO LCUID THE: UP.

G. GAY TRAINEES MAVE DEET TRACTIVE SINCE RETURN FRON

CUBA AND DULY RECENTLY STEPS DEIRS LAKEN BY FUNG ILITARY

COMNISS10Y TO REACTIVATE THEM. SIYCE

IN KEY POSITION

TO REPORT ON THIS JUILDUP, THERE LE GOOD GUANCE OF PASSIVE CORELLI

CIFO AT LATER DATE WHICH WOULD FERILT INCH TO CATCH CHOLE GROUP

ÖD HANDED iN OLE GU TO THEY COULD BE MUSEE

IO COULO DE VED AT TURE TIE TO DOLSTER EUESJENSE,

--UNET

SIBR

---

## Page 3

16-26

 Si

INTEL AGENTE, SALVERDE, FIGIO!E CORRENIS.

Quel Tor 1"

GESTIOONY CONGE S9 08 0F.5. PAPERD THAT

NOSS FERRUTTSO SALVADCRAVO AS LETEL AUEETS AND SURFACE

CANAL CASESO THIS COULO AVUTO SURFACISS OF

CASE SHOULD

Trazart

B. PRECEDES SE AEREO! D.

5,

COUNTERPRDDLCGIVE FOR PROP FURPOSTS OF PARERA

16-26

14.8

FIBR

---

## Page 4

14-00000

•IN 63642

Friss es

REF A PAPER FOR SAUDY SY CAS .E.IERS.

Niche

DO MENERA TROI IS LADE AVAILADLE IO ANSUER QUESTIONS.:

7.

REQUEST COLENIS.

SECHET

CFN

---

