# 104-10185-10059

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10185-10059

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

But !?

ORIGI

UNIT.

G. Fields

AF

2445

553

DATE + 9 December 1960

LEOPOLDVILLE

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONF,

C/AF 3

INFO •

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

•SECRET

ROUTING

5.||

3

DEFERRED S DECiD

ROUTILIE

S/C, E/CA, C/CI, C/FIZ, C/E 3, G/SR:3, CANE 2,

•zum

PRIORITY

PREDATAL

TNITIATE

LNT LẠIS

(PRITY) LEOP

RYBAT

INFO

CITE DIR

OUT5/457

51457

15767

15767

RE LEOP 0441 (IN 14223)

1. IDEN A REF ASSIGNED CRYPT UNTIVID. VIEW NO HO TRACES

DIFFICULT ASSESS(DJILIVID ACCESS AND INTEL VALUE. ROMS BASED PARTY

MEMBERSHIP, YIS CONNECTIONS OR POSITION AFFORDING INSIGHT YUGO

MILITARY PLANNING OR EVIDENCE SOVBLOC MILITARY LIAISON WITH YUGOS.

ANY OF THESE OR ACCESS THIS TYPE AND LEVEL INFO REGARDLESS OF

[DNUIVID POSITION JUSTIFIES RECRUITMENT.

2. IN THIS CASE PREFER DIRECI PITCH IN LEOP BY QJWIN RATHER

THAN USE DIAMOND PLOY. AFTER SUCCESSFUL RECRUITMENT REQUEST

YOU ADVISE ROME OF CASE AND MAKE SUGGESTIONS RE OPERATIONAL

PICKUP AND HANDLING.

3. VIEW LACK OF TIME IF MLIVID SATISFIES ONE OR MORE OF

ABOVE ROMS IN YOUR OPINION HQ AUTHORIZES PAYMENT NOT TO EXCEED

DOLLARS 250 MONTHLY WITH NO OTHER COMMITMENTS THIS TIME.

S. Fuela

END OF MESSAGE

ATLEAST

or WE Rs/WTyng (in draft)

Vito in:

INO OFIIGER

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OF /CIR

•, REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

5/185

---

