1704-10333-10003|

ay

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

: Afeohment T°

03/19/97 05:18:42 PM

MEMORAMDUM EOR: @DA
= .

FROM:

SUBJECT: ACTION Item - Assassination Review Board

During discussions with Kathy Dyer today, | leamed that the JFK Assassination Review Board will want to
meet with us, The purpose of the meeting will be to discuss records your offices had/have from the 1958 -
1965 time.period. will be interested in specific files from the O/DCI, the IG, the OGC, and
“Legislative Affairs." : Were the "Legislative Affairs" records transferred to the Office of
Congressional Affairs?

Before we meet with them, Kathy will arrange a meeting with Barry Harrelson, CSI, who has been working
with the Board members. The purpose of this meeting will be to identify specific areas the Board is
interested in, what DCI records they may have already seen, etc., so we can prepare for the meeting with
the Board

1 BY: josease9 ‘\
CL REASON: T.5(c)
DECL ON: Xt
DAV FROM: COV 1-82
cc:

rynT.


13-00000 _

APR 16 797 11:38AM P.2

Proposed Topics/Questions for DCI Office Briefings
Office of the DCI

1. How are the records of the DCI, DDCI, and the heads = the directorates indexed?
What records are kept?

2. Ina Cold Warrior footnote, Tom Mangold reports that as any of CI Staff Chief James

‘s files were destroyed, “a complete record was carefully maintained about
what had been done. (George) Kalaris signed off on every file and the DCI's office was
notified.” (p. 143) What records would the DCI’s office have maintained on this
destruction?

3. Which office controls the unredacted version of the Family Jewels memo?

4. What records would be kept of requests to or liaison between the Agency and NSA
or FBI in the wake of the assassination (November 23, 1963-September 30, 1964)?

5. What records would be kept of DCI tasking to other intelligence community agencies
in the immediate wake of the assassination (the first month)?

6, Where are the personal and working papers of the DCI, DDCI, and the heads of the
directorates? (Personal files, soft files, and official files are included in this request.)

7. Are there any Agency records on George Herbert Walker Bush prior to his
appointment as DCI?

8. What records might still exist on correspondence between the DCI (Helms) and the
Nixon White House on the 1967 IG Report? on the Bay of Pigs? on the assassination?

9. How are White House requests recorded. What records might there be of requests
from then Attorney General Robert Kennedy?

10. How are records kept of presidential briefings from the CIA (either the DCI’s office
or one of the directorates)? What DCI briefing papers still exist for the time period
August 1, 1963 to February 1, 1964?

11.. What records might still exist on any McCone requests for information from the
directorates following the assassination? For example, any request on the surveillance
from the Mexico City Station during LHO’s visit.


13-00000

APR 16 ’97 11:38AM P.3

,

12. Who were the Agency Haisons with Robert Kennedy prior to and after the
assassination?

13. What records might still exist of communications between DCI McCone and Allen
Dulles during the Warren Commission?

14. What records might still exist of communications between Allen Dulles and anyone
at CIA during the Warren Commission?

15. Did CIA have anyone on the Warren Commission staff (either an Agency officer or
a source)?

16. What records exist in the Executive Registry on Operation Mongoose or the Special
Group Augmented?

17. What records might still exist of conversations or communications between the DCI
and CI Staff Chief James Angleton on Nosenko? :

18. What records were maintained at the DCI level on the Church Committee, the
HSCA, the Pike Committee, and the Rockefeller Commission?

Legislative Affai
1, Who has the Scott Breckinridge files?

2. Records of Agency dealings with HSCA?

3. Who was the Agency liaison with Robert Kennedy after the assassination?

4. eee
Committee, and the Rockefeller Commission?

Inspector General's Office
1. Is there an index of IG reports?
2. Was there ever an IG report concerning LHO and the Agency?

3, Are records kept on requests from the DCI's office forlG reports?


13-00000
~~
APR 16°97 11:390M P.4

Office of General Counsel
1. Who has the Scott Breckinridge files?

2. What are the procedures for an Agency officer in covert status testifying before
Congress or under oath? (We are interested in the procedures for 1964 and 1975-77.)

3. What records were maintained on the Church Committee, the HSCA, the Pike
Committee, and the Rockefeller Commission?

3. Did CIA have anyone on the Warren Commission staff (either an Agency officer or a
source)?


MEMORANDUM FOR DCI/IRO
_ cpeven S65

DATE: April/May 1997
SUBJECT: Proposed Topics/Questions for DCI Office Briefings to ARRB
FROM: DC/DCVER

ACTION TAKEN: Since documents in this timeframe were not logged into a searchable

system, AARC keyword and visual shelf list searchs were utilized.. Executive Registry has
identified seven (7) shelf lists containing documents during the referenced timeframe (60’s
to mid-70’s):

80M01009A
80M01048A
-80R01284A
80B01285A
80RO1580R
80B01676R
80R01731R.

Each question was treated as a separate search effort with appropriate keyword and
AARC shelf list searches/reviews. Due to the timeframe, many of the applicable boxes are
being utilized by historians at the present time (shelf lists are annotated accordingly). As
of 30 April thrity-three (33) boxes of documents have been recalled/reviewed.

i : How rect DC!
indexed?

Answer 1: The records which pass through Executive Registry are incorporated into. our
subjecttopic files. Front Office working files which are turned over to the registry as a
DCIDDCIIEXDIR leaves the position are categorized by material type; i.e.,
calendarsicards, meetings, trips, chronos, etc. High level weekly meetings are
categorized by agency name: NSC, STATE, DEFENSE, ATTORNEY GENERAL, etc.

Question 2: In a Cold Warrior foomote, Tom Mangold reports that as any of CI Staff
hief Jame; n’s files were des “ac cord was carefully maintai
what hi Jaris signe *s office

was notified. (p. 143) What records would the DCI’s office have maintained on this
destruction?



13-00000

w8

Answer 2: The keywords ANGLETON & KALARIS were utilized in this search; plus
through the perusal of shelflists a folder with DOCUMENT DESTRUCTION was
reviewed. The folder with “destruction” in the title contained paramaters set for
retention of documents during the various investigations/committees. None of the reviews
surfaced any authorization or reference to or listing of Angleton documents being
destroyed. If the timeframe for the said destruction were provided and the position held
by Kalaris were known, the appropriate DCI Chronos and position liaison files could be
searched.

juestion 3: Which office controls the unredac i i wel: 2

Answer 3: Executive Registry shelf lists record two (2) retired boxes containing material
identifiable as “Family Jewels” . At the present time those two boxes are being utilized
by the DCIIRO for the Levy search. (79M01476A; boxes 16 & 17). One of the testimony
documents located in a folder titled “White House Correpsondence re: Congressional
Investigations” referenced the “Family Jewels” . Per a conversation with DCIIIRO on
30 April 1997, the GC has found the unredacted version.

Answer 4: The shelf lists for the above timeframe did not indicate high level meetings
with either of the two agencies, therefore, the NSA and FBI liaison folders for 196311964
were reviewed. There were no responsive documents in these compartments. The
McCone files are under review by David Borage.

Question 5: What records would be kept of DCI tasking to other intelligence community
jes i i jiate_w: ination ?

agencies in the immediate wake of the assassination (the first month)?

: Spe, =

Answer 5: No memos re Kennedy were found in DDCI/Walters files for The
DCVIRO has tasked this out through the CMS/IMO. The DCI/McCone files afe under
review by David Borage.

uestion 6: Where ar: ersonal and workin. TS e Di hi
of the directorates? (Personal files, soft files, and official files are included in this request.)

Answer 6: During the early retirement years AOIDCI did retire a number of soft files. =
Some DCI files contained records labeled as “Personal” . Executive Registry holdings of
personal correspondence would be maintained as temporary to be retained within the
registry for three years then destroyed. No Official Files were noted on shelf lists.

ti : re any Agency records on Geor: Walker Bush prior to his

appointment as DCI?


13-00000

Answer 7: Bush was appointed as DCI on 3 November 1975, Earlier Career:

- 1974-1975, Chief, U.S. Liaison Office, People’s Republic of China
- 1973-1974, Chairman, Republican National Committee

- 1971-1972, Ambassador to the United Nations

- 1967-1971, Member of Congress, 7th District, Texas

- Servid in World War II as naval naviator in the Pacific.

BUSH was run as a keyword and no documents revealed evidence of any correspondence
prior to his appointment as DCI. Navy liaison files from 1963-66 were reviewed with no
responsive documents.

juesti H ci ight still exist on c inden i
- rs igs? on the
ination?

Answer 8: Helms was DCI from 30 June 1966 through 2 February 1973. The Bay of
Pigs material is presently under review at the History Staff. The tasking memo from the
DCI to the DD’s stating that the CIA will not involve itself in assassinations. The
DCI/IRO stated that she has the “1967 IG Report”. The Helms files were recalled by
Chris Burgess for Helms use.

Question 9: How are White House requests recorded. What records might there be of
requests from the then Attorney General Robert Kennedy?

Answer 9: White House requests would initially be filed in Liaison with the White House
for the year that the request was received. It might also be transferred to or cross-
referenced to a topic file if significance warrented it. (The Kennedy was Attorney
General from 1961-1964.) Attorney General labeled folders were recalled and reviewed.
The following correspondence from Attorney General Robert Kennedy resides in
Executive Registry files:

- Memo to Heads of Departments and Agencies re NSA Memorandum 161 ensuring the
development of plans, programs & action proposals to protect internal security.

Bess
- Memo of acknowledgement of the appointment of John A. Ross as Deputy for National
Intelligence Programs.

- Proposed Revision of NSC-5427 re restructing Soviet Diplomat access to U.S. Strategic
Intelligence.

- Our response to a verbal request for information re the Cuban refugee situation in
Maini.

- Verbal & Paper requests re NIE on Weapons of Mass Destruction.


13-00000

- Query re interrogation of members of 2506 Brigade in Miami by Dept. of the Army
- Memo of accolade for the efforts of Mike Kiskowsky in the Cuban Rescue Effort
- Section 7 alien residence request.

- Our notification of Swiss/Soviet confrontation of Nosenko at the Washington District
Office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service wiCIA present plus appreciation for
Commissioner Farrell & staff's assistance in the above effort.

Question 10: How are records kept of presidential briefings from the CIA (either the
I's office or irect ? What Di i ill exi e

period August 1, 1963 to February 1, 1964?

Answer 10:

If the ODCI briefed the Office of the President, then there would be a briefing book with
any background material and notes in the folders retired for that DCI’s term.

If the briefing were to be given by another directorate, it should have been filed on a
temporary basis within the ER files and not retired.

The following briefing books during that timeframe were located in our records:

1DEC63 - Key Elements of Soviet Military & Economic Strengths

(1284A/10)
DCI (McCone) Meetings with the President (Johnson) 3 folders
(1285A/5-6).
UU: i ill exi any McCon i ion from
from the Mexico City Station during LHO’s visit.

Answer 11: Warren Commission folder holds a document to David BerlinIEXDIR/WC
stating that Mexico City Station did take photographs. Hill briefing on Oswald indicating
that we were not surveilling him at the time of his visit to Mexico City. The McCone files
have recently been recalled by history staff. Thus far in the efforts of this search, I have
not located any reference to DCI taskings to the directorates.

Answer 12: I saw no reference to Agency liaisons in the files searched.


ion 13: What records still exist of communications between DCI McCone ani
lien Dull i Wi mmission:

Answer 13: Dulles served on the Warren Commission from 1963-64, and McCone was
DCI from 1961-65. In scanning the correspondence, it appears that the memos were from
the Commission to the Agency, not person to person.

Answer 14: We hold Warren Commission material from 1963-1975. Dulles served on
the Warren Commission from 1963-1964. . In scanning the correspondence, it appears
that the memos were from the Commission to the Agency, not person to person.

uestion 15: Di the Warren ssi i =
officer of a source)?
Answer 15: I did not see any staffing lists for the Warren Commission.

Question 16: What records exist in the Executive Registery on Operation Mongoose or
the Special Group Augmented?

Answer 16: The Executive registry holds one file folder titled “MONGOOSE Cuban
Reconnaissance/Overflights” dated September 9, 1962 through May 31, 1963. The box
containing this folder has been signed out by history staff (Diane/Jim) since February 27,
1996. Within the Rockefeller Committee folders,(1048A/9) I found a document from OSD
requesting that all documents in the CIA pertaining to Operation Mongoose be transferred
to the officer currently responsible for the operations covering Cuba (dated 28JAN63)
plus a package of MONGOOSE Meeting MFR’s and background documentation
requested by the IG in Nov 1975.

Answer 17: Seven (7) folders have been identified as holding Nosenko material. The
following records of information re Nosenko between the DCI and CICI residing in
Executive Registry files are as follows:

- Cl 78-131 “Talking Points for the Director's Meeting with Yurily Ivanovich Nosenko”
- Cl 78-406 “Transmittal of Letter from Nosenko”

- ER 78-8432/5 “Nosenko/Epstein Contact wlattached CI 78-070 “Backgrund on Yruiy
Ivanovich Nosenko's Meeting with Edward Jay Epstein”

- Cl 78-105 “Request of Yruiy Ivanovich Nosenko to Meet with the DCI”


13-00000

- Cl 78-074 “The Bona Fides of Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko”

- ER 78-9899/2 “Letter from Carlucci to Louis Stokes (HSCA) re Public Testimony on
the Nosenko Matter” wlattached OLC 78-2838/1 “HSCA Request for Agency Testimony
Concerning Nosenio” & OLC 78-2838/A “Letter from G. Robert Blakey to Scott
Breckenridge (HSCA) referencing telephone conversation with Ken Klein in connection
with its investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of President Kennedy,
HSCA requests that a spokesman provide official explanations and Agency positions with
regard to Yuri Nosenko” & ER 78-9899 “Letter from Carlucci to Stokes (HSCA)
acknowledging receipt of 14 August request for the Agency's position on Nosenko”

- Cl 78-228 “Passage of Nosenko Study to the FBI” (ER cy wlo John Hart's The Monster
Plot) wlattached ER 78-1621 “Proposed Passage of Nosenko Study to the FBI”

- ER 78-8432/11 “HSCA request for access to the Hart Report” with attached
background memos from OGCILGC

- ER 77-8989/1 “Memo from John F. Blake (A/DDCI) to DCI re Conversation with Dr.
Bohrer on the Nosenko case wiattached CI 77-496 “The Roles of CIA Officers in the
Nosenko Case”

- ER 71-1804 “Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko re controlled use by FBI in an approach in
Zhetvina”

- ER 69-5003/1 “Yruiy Ivanovich Nosenko re Section 7 authorization”

- ER 69-1728/3 (OLC 69-0676) “Briefing of Key Congressional Contacts on the Yriy
Ivanovich Nosenko Case”

- ER 81-4701 “Handwritten Note from Angleton to Casey (Dear Bill) re Situation Report
on the FBI and the President's Pardon--with no mention of the Nosenko case but rather
tends to focus on Presidential Sanctions in National Security Cases.

FE GIOIA IO IIIT ATOR TORII TOIT TIAA IAA AI IT TRA TORTI I IT IT.

Note: Next step would be to isolate the Directors’ Chronos (69-71), recall & review for
possible notes or MFR's which might have been maintained in the Chronos vice the
project files.

Note: A memo notation indicates that George Kalaris was CICI in 1976.

FESO GIO IG SICIO ROOT Ea OITA AIK

Question 18: What records are maintained at the DCI level on the Church Committee,
‘A (Hous cI ittee on Assassinations i ittee, and the
-] ission?
nswer 18:

Church Committee: Executive Registry files holds ROGOVIN (Legal Assistant to the
DCI) files titled: “Church Committee Destruction of Drug Files" and “Covert Action


Press Statements by HSC - Sent to the President” , as well as, the Sensitivd MENAOMI
file.

HSCA: Per a discussion with IRO/Dyer on 22/23 April 1997, it was learned that six (6)
folders containing HSCA material reside in 2G11.

Pike Committee: Executive Registry holds files containing the White House Report,
supporting data re it's printing at P&PG, background material on the report, press
leakage of report matter through Mr. Daniel Schorr, plus documentation about classified
holdings retained by Congressman Otis G. Pike, Congressman William Lehman and Miss
Susan Poor after they left their positions at HSC. ER Files also hold a copy of “CIA
The Pike Report” written by Philip Agee, copies of various issues of “The Village
Voice” where the leak material surfaced, and the Pike Committee Recommendations
Report.

Rockefeller Committee: This Committee was established by President Ford on

4 January 1975 and reported CIA activities in the United States (Senate Resolution 21).
ER holds a small folder of external letters from the public following the release of the
report, 13 folders of material containing committee recommendations and agency
background materiql, AIDDCI LAPHAM memos re action taken and/or current status of
Rockefeller recommendations (basically just cover notes); DCI briefing books for
commission testimony (3 folders); 4 MFR's for DCI meetings/contact with the
Commission; IC Staff MFR's, DCI’s Report to the President re the Rockefeller Report,
list of testimony files transferred to OLC Jan 1977, plus cy of Director’ s Statement for
release re CIA Involvement in a massive illegal domestic intelligence afore card file
wlindex.

MISC: Testimony documentation on the various committees in 1975 can be found in
folders marked “White House Correspondence re: Congressional Investigations” .

Action Taken:
Shelf List records were searched for the following keywords:

ANGLETON

DEFECTOR

NOSENKO

MONGOOSE

WARREN & COMMISSION
KENNEDY

BAY & PIGS

COMMITTEE & ASSASSINATION
FAMILY & JEWELS
KALARIS

HELMS


13-00000

PRESIDENT

PIKE

HSCA

ROCKEFERLER & COMMISSION
CHURCH & COMMITTEE
BUSH.

Reviewed the following shelf lists:

80M01044A
80B01285A
80R01580R
80R01284A
80M01009A
80M01048A
80M01676R
80RO1731R
79M01476A.

The following lists were identified while reviewing the above AARC Job Master Folders:

--ER Reprot Index re Reports Pulled for the Rockefeller & Congressional Investigations
--Box itimization of documents furnished to the Rockefeller Commission
--List of ER File Holdings on JFK Assassination.

The following documents are being furnished for IRO review:
BOX 1:

ER 75-11,383 & /4,/3, 11

OTE Memo #56-75

DDIS&T 75-3350

OLC 75-2292

ER 75-1,548

Uncontrolled CA Press Statements by HSC (27Nov-29Dec 75)
ER 75-2690/A

ER 75-3707

OS-55953

Uncontrolled Memo re access to ITG files

IG 75-2946

ER 75-269/3, /2

1G 75-2601

Uncontrolled report to President re CIA Activities within the U.S. - June 75
ER 75-3558


13-00000

Box I, Cont.

Uncontrolled Memo re Rockefeller Commission Recommendations (multiple versions)
MPR re Director’ s Testimony on MHCHAOS
DDO 75-4050 (RS 75-1580)

Uncontrolled Statement re NY Times Article on Illegal Effort
MPR re.NY Daily News Article re Illegal Effort
ER 75-1861/12, 113

RS 75-1121

RS 75-1118

Uncontrolled Memo re Changing Agency Name
ER 75-10293

ER 75-9955

ER 76-6609

ER 76-313 & 12, /1

ER 76-6479

ER 76-488 & /1

ER 76-642]

ER 76-489

ER 76-6372

SC 76-0528]

ER 76-4486

DDO 76-2622 (ER 76-2175)

ER 76-1902 & /4, 15, 12,1]

ER 76-2103 & 1

DDO 76-2623 (ER 76-2175)

ER 76-1980 & /1

ER 76-1569 & /1

ER 76-1617 & (1

ER 76-1743 & /1

RS 76-0360

RS 76-0362

ER 76-1709

ER 76-1707 (RS 76-0856)

ER 76-1140/] (RS 76-0344)

ER 76-7489/1 (RS 76-0337)

ER 76-1523 (RS 76-0328)

ER 76-1504 (RS 76-0261 /a & RS 76-320)

ER 76-7510 (RS 76-0316)

ER 76-7378

ER 76-1423 (RS 76-0310)

ER 76-1378 (RS 76-0302)

ER 76-7173 & 11

ER 76-1350 (RS 76-0294)

ER 76-7142


13-00000

Box 1, Cont'd.

ER 76-7142

ER 76-1173 (RS 76-0251)

ER 76-1140 (RS 76-0251)

ER 75-9332 & 14,11, 12,13

ER 75-12516

ER 75-12512

ER 76-2324 & /] (RS 76-0453)
ER 76-797913

NSC #2957 (209129)

ER 76-2292 & I]

ER 75-402/1

ER 76-7617.

ER 76-7077 (RS 76-0228/a)

RS 76-2028

ER 76-221/A

ER 76-0149 & 12,11

ER 76-221

ER 76-6220

ER 76-6145

ER 76-0055

ER 72-4250 & IA

ER 74-53 181A

DDP 77-2310 (ER 72-1675lw & /1,/A
DDP 72 1464

ER 72-1675

ER 72-219] & 1A

ER 72-37]

ER 76-9924

ER 76-2980 & 1

DCIIG 76-0122

RS 76-0354 & /1,12

OLC 76-0402/a

RS 76-0251

ER 76-5972

Uncontrolled Outline re Rockefeller Commission
Uncontrolled Listing re Rockefeller Commission
DCIIIG 76-0108

OLC 76-1615/a (ER 76-2375/4A)
ER 76-791917, & 16, /5

ER 76-237516A (OLC 76-1692/a)
ER 76-237516B (OLC 76-1692/b)
ER 76-2375/4A (OLC 76-1615/a)
ER 76-2375/5A (OLC 76-1614/a)


Box 1, Cont.d

ER 76-2474/A (OLC 76-1646/a)

ER 77-6075

2 Dec 1964 note for DCI re Test at Lop Lor
USIBARAC-D-2-11/1

ER 75-3852

ER 75-1568

ER 75-6249

ER 75-6503

Handwritten Memo for Elder from Chamberlain
List of Memos Sent

ER 76-7370/1

ER 76-7617

ER 75-5875

RS 75-1056

Memo of Conversation re 15 Oct 1970 Meeting Kissinger/Karamessine/Haig
MFR re Project EYBELT

RS 75-1035

RS 75-1031

List of Documents

Knoche Note

ER 75-6174

OGC 74-0322

MER re Private Conversation from Knoche
ER 76-2292

ER 76-2266

DCI-IC 76-0108

Statement re NY Times 22 Dec Article

IG 75-3754 (ER 76-11,894 & /1; IG 75-3688)
Destruction of Documents 1973

RS 75-3462

Uncontrolled Defense Memos

Statement by Colby on Hill

Memo from Michel (Hill) to Rogovin re Delivery of Documents
Notes

ER 75-11,383/2

SC-05281/76 & ER 76-6774

DDO 75-4292 (ER 75-3594)

DDO 75-4292/1 (ER 75-3594/2)

ER.75-9263 & /1

IG 75-4083 (ER 75-12510/1)

ER 75-12510 & /2, /4, /3

ER 75-10424 (DDO 75-6933; DDA 75-6032)
OGC 75-1744


Box 1, Cont'd.

Congressional Record Daily Digest for 19 Feb. 1975
Memo from Rogovin to Pike dated 20 Jan 1976 re 338 page draft w/several uncontrolled
memos

ROGOVIN FILE:

Eyes Only Memo re Olsen
OTS Memo
RS 75-3462 & /A
Memo to Duckett
Colby Statement to the Hill 16 Sept. 1975
Michel Memo to Rogovin dated 15 Sept. 1975
Notes
OTS Foreign Currency
ER 75-3781/2
Statement by Press dated 25 Nov. 1969
Notes
DD/S&T 75-2878
Summary of Report re BW/CW Agreement
DD/S&T 75-2895
ER 75-867 1/2 (OLC 75-2409/a)
ER 75-11,679 (DD/S&T 75-4073)
ER 75-11,382/2
Proposed Release on Ft. Detrick dated 5 Sept. 1975
Summary Report re MKNAOMI
MER re Ft. Detrick
MFR re Ft. Detrick
MFR reli {KNAOMI (Cornelius vs. Roosevelt)
MFR re! [M |AOMI (Treichler)
laste MKNAOMI (Gordon)
MKNAOMI (Batlin)
te Page
Manila Envelope containing BW Material
ER 75-7520 a
ER 75-3240

ER 78-4841 & /2, /1, /a

Uncontrolled Memo From DDA te Warren Commission Papers
ER 75-4863

ER 75-3852

ER 75-2690 & /1

ER 75-6654

ER 75-593


13-00000

Box 1, Cont;d.

Colby Statement dtd 5 March 1975

ER 75-4599

COMPT 75-0179

ER 75-402 & /1

ER 75-333

ER 75-176

Uncontrolled docs from Colon re Attempt to Impeach Kennedy
TS 792243

ER 79-2656 & /2,/1

ER 80-1706

ER 79555 (IG 79-0239)

21 Nov. 1975 Employee Bulletin re Assassinations
CIA Press Conference - 19 Nov. 1975

ER 75-6862

ER 75-9292 & /1

ER 75-12641 with 11 Dec 1959 Memo re Cuban Problems
ER 75-6503

ER 75-7085/2

ER 75-3240

ER 75-8808 & /1

ER 75-11,684/1

ER 63-790

ER 63-57 & /1 (OGC 62-3169) Memo re Problem Areas re Family Jewels
ER 75-8479 & /1

ER 64-1329

News Clips re Schorr

ER 76-2980 & /1

ER 76-3042/1 (OGC 76-2139)

ER 76-3042

ER 76-7784

ER 76-2936

ER 76-1455 & /1,/A

Congressinal Record Page

ER 76-7492

ER 76-7488

Congressional Record Page (ER 76-1638)
Congressional Record Page (ER 76-1633)

ER 76-1375 & /A

ER 87-1321

ER 75-1840

DDO 75-6124

Employee Bulletin dated 21 Nov. 1976 re Assassinations
ER 75-11340/3 (DD/S&T 78-4833)


13-00000

Box 2

Banded Item
Material on DDO Files on U.S. Citizens ca 1975

Banded Item
Establishment of Commisision re Agency Activities in U.S. with BIOs of
Candidates

Banded Item
Testimony Background

Banded Item
Assassination (Skeleton)

Banded Item
Nosenko Material

ER 71-1804
ER 70-2083 & /1
ER 89-5003 & /1
ER 77-5614 & /1
ER 77-7310/2 (DDO 77-9478)
ER 89-1738/2, /3
ER 72-5458
ER 73-3549 (DDO 73-3458)
ER 76-1529 (DDO 76-1287)
ER 77-8989 & /1 (DDO 77-7896)
ER 78-8432/11 (OGC 78-3535)
OGC 78-3272 (OLC 78-1012/7)
ER 78-1621/1 (DDO 78-3429)
ER 78-1261 (DDO 78-3540)
ER 78-3058 (OLC 78-2120/6)
ER 78-3002 (DDA 78-3365/3)
ER 78-9899/3 (OLC 78-2838/E)
OLC 78-2838/1
ER 78-9899/1
ER 78-4899 (OLC 78-2338/B)
ER 78-8432/1
Cl 78-074 (DDO 78-1252)
ER 78-8432/2 (DDO 78-1744)
ER 78-8432/4, /5, /6, /7, /8, /10
CI 78-070 (DDO 78-1226)
ER 78-2653)

Tumer Draft Article, “Secrecy in An Open Society”

ER 78-3168


13-00000

Box 3, Cont'd.

ER 75-4599 & /2
ER 75-415 (OGC 75-0215)
ER 75-801

ER 75-748

ER 75-797

ER 74-713

ER 75-591/2 & /1
ER 75-714

ER 75-649

ER 75-648

ER 75-650

ER 75-4592

ER 75-4575

ER 75-540 & /1
ER 75-552

ER 75-525

ER 75-445 & /1
ER 75-4469

ER 75-4445 & /1
ER 75-399

ER 75-4367 & /1
ER 75-4366

ER 75-4345

ER 75-4294

ER 75-6138

ER 63-4831

ER 63-4536

ER 63-5136

ER 63-3891

ER 63-2489

ER 63-2868 (DDP-3-1348)
TS 172957

ER 62-3068

ER 62-8401

ER 62-790

ER 62-4791

ER 63-2842

TS 20386 (MFR Cover Memo)
ER 75-6138/1
ER 63-7638

ER 63-6771

E.O. 63-9224/1
ER 73-9224


13-00000

Box 3, Cont'd

ER 75-426

ER 75-426/51 (Ad Hoc 75-182)

ER 75-426/50

ER 75-426/46 (Ad Hoc 75-69)

ER 75-426/47 (Ad Hoc 75-70).

ER 75-426/48 (Ad Hoe 75-71)

ER 75-426/49 (Ad Hoc 75-74)

ER 75-426/45 (Ad Hoc 75-58)

ER 75-426/44 (Ad Hoc 75-45)

ER 75-426/43 (Ad Hoc 75-44)

ER 75-426/41, /39, /36, /40, /31, /38, /37, /33, /32. /30, /28, /29, /27.
125, /21, /22, /23, /24,./19, /20, /13, /18, /17, /16, /15, /14, /12,
/11, /10, /6, /7, /5, /4, /A, /1, /2, /3.

BYE)007/75

ER 75-610 & /1

ER 75-553

ER 75-538 (IG 75-0454)

Index Page

ER 75-4214

ER 75-321

ER 75-4345

ER 75-319

ER 75-4214/A

Banded Item :
Response Package to Commission Request #3 dtd 17 Jan 1975

ER 75-267

ER 75-4172

List of Material Delivered to the Commission -
ER 75-4562

ER 75-466

ER 75-317

ER 75-095

ER 75-986

ER 75-5121

ER 75-1342 (Ad Hoc 75-93)
ER 75-1650

ER 75-5306

ER 75-5306/1 (Ad Hoc 75-192)
ER 75-5427

ER 75-1242

Ad Hoc 75-452 (SOG # 75-149)


13-00000,

Box 3, Cont'd.

ER 75-1945

Eunice Notes dtd'13 May 1975

Handwritten Note re Loan of Documents to Mr. Elder
ER 75-6158

ER 75-2050 & /1

ER 62-6535/1

ER 62-7557

ER 63-9224 & /1

ER 75-1983

ER 62-6535 & /1

ER 75-3028

ER 68-4707

Eyes Only Memo re Proposed CA Towards Cuba dtd 18 Apr 1963 w/ draft
ER 75-1954

ER 64-3115 & /1

Memo re Sabotage Team, Matahambre Copper Mine dtd 14 Nov. 1962
ER 75-5938/3, & /2, /1

ER 75-5734/1

ER 75-1945

ER 75-5938

ER 75-1943

XR 76-0084

SC 06875-70

ER 75-1782 & /1

ER 74-3286/1

ER 72-2709

ER 72-4464

Commission Request to Check Files dtd 25 Mar 1975
Eunice Work Pages”

ER 75-1567 (Ad Hoc 75-241)

ER 75-2258

ER 65-5553

ER 65-2164

ER 62-723

Eunice Note re Folder loaned to IG for Review
ER 75-5995

ER 75-2075

ER 75-1974

ER 75-5997 & /1

ER 75-5998 & /1

ER 75-5974 & /1

ER 75-5973 & /1

ER 75-6000


13-00000

Box 3, Cont'd.

ER 75-2271

ER 75-5975 & /2, /1
ER 75-2077

ER 75-5949 & /1
ER 75-5881 & /1
ER 75-1845

ER 75-1847/1

ER 75-6333

ER 75-1847

ER 75-6001

ER 75-1846 & /2, /1
ER 75-6585

ER 75-1845/1

ER 75-1782

ER 75-7526 & /1
ER 75-5635 & /1
ER 75-1688 & /A, /1
ER 75-2000 & /1
ER 75-5996

Banded Items
ER 75-6442 & /1
ER 75-6389 & /1
ER 75-6502
ER 75-6548
ER 75-2433
ER 75-6648
ER 75-6475
ER 75-6375 & /1
ER 75-1799
ER 75-6387
ER 75-6388
ER 75-2233 & /1
-ER 75-2122 & /
ER 75-6251/1
ER 75-6179 & /1
ER 75-2099 & /1
ER 75-2020 & /1
ER 75-2031 & /1, /2
ER 75-2030 & /1
ER 75-2017 & /4, /3, /2,/1
ER 75-2006 & /1
ER 75-2159 & /2, /1


13-00000

Box 3, Cont'd
ER 75-2001 & /1

Banded
List of Documents
ER 75-1587 & /1, /2, /4
ER 75-1523
ER 75-1516 & /1, /2
ER 75-1517 & /1
ER 75-1492 & /1
ER 75-1490
ER 75-5753
ER 75-1444/A
ER 75-1406 & /1
ER 75-5320 & /1
ER 75-1405
ER 75-1530
ER 75-5304 & /1
ER 75-1341/1
ER 75-1565
ER 75-5206
ER 75-5316 (Ad Hoc 75-156)
ER 75-1341
ER 75-1677
ER 75-1560
ER 75-1442/1
Uncontrolled Document re Black Militants
ER 75-1442
ER.75-1404 (Ad Hoc 75-106)
ER 75-2222 th
ER 75-5007 & /1 (Ad Hoc 75-60)
IP/AN Notice #11 dtd 13 Feb. 1975
CSHB 75-1-1 dtd 19 Jul 1967
CSI No. 1-6
CSI No. 1-19
RB 75/28 dtd 10 Mar 1975
DDO SS# 75-045
ER 75-5006
ER 75-796
ER 75-1259
ER 75-796/1
ER 75-919
Log Form for Commission Requests
ER 75-786 & /2


13-00000

Box 3, Cont'd.

ER 75-2670 (RS 75-1333)
RS 75-865

RS 75-866/A

RS 75-864

RS 75-885

Employee Bulletin #441 dtd 28 Feb. 1975
Badge List for Commission Members
Ad Hoc 75-775

ER 75-1786

ER 75-4563

ER 75-4562

ER 75-7338 & /1

ER 75-5913 & /1

ER 75-5975/1

ER 75-6361

ER 75-5875

ER 75-2292

ER 75-401 & /1

ER 77-872/5 (IG 77-1240)
ER 77-872/4

ER 76 2375 & /S, /4, /3, /2, /1
Draft White House Statement

Response Status Memo

ER 75-3095 (RS 75-1127)

ER 75-7412

ER 75-3558

ER 75-257

ER 75-4399

ER 75-260 (DDA 75-0257)

Rockefeller Commission Report

ER 75-322/1

ER 75-1561 (Ad Hoe 75-235)

ER 75-1019

ER 75-400

ER 75-160 & /16, /15, /1A, /2A, /3A, /4A, /SA, /6A, /9A, /8A, /TA, /13, /2, /3, /4,
15, /7, 18, NO, /1, /9, /12, AOA, /6,/11

ER 75-4175

ER 75-4105

ER 75-160

ER 75-5447 & /1

Director’s Statement to the Commission dtd 13 Jan 1975

Special Pages 5 & 6A of Director’s Version of Testimony Page'dtd 13 Jan. 1975


13-00000

Box 3, Cont'd.

ER 75-11,541 & /1 (NIO 75-2108)
ER 75-2690/4

TCS 013/77

ER 77-2109

OGC 77-1357

ER 77-044/1

DDO 77-2109 & /1

OGC 77-4424

ER 77-872/13 (IG 77-1531)
ER 77-872/14

ER 77-8375 (OGC 77-4432)
TCS 7233/17

TCS 5206/77

ER 77-872/10 & /2, /9, [3


SECRET
WORKING PAPERS

me

we

wT KG ae Bak ee -/


13-00000

- First an electronic search of all databases which
contain record information.

- A manual search of the shelflists.
- A manual search of the file room.

- An all-hands Lnote requesting any information on the
subject of search.

- same as above; OIG has electronic indexes and
databases for records from 1959 to present.

GENERAL QUESTIONS:

1. How are the records of the DCI, DDCI and the heads
of directorates indexed? What records are kept?

3” RECORDS—ane—tnpExen L/6C7ZOM: PD dé Ceppi: D
é)

ALL RECORDS ARE KEPT, INCLUDING HIS CALENDAR. wie. °%
4

rs

2B #. Which office controls the unredacted version of the 06-C
family Jewels” memo?

I HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO FIND ‘FAMILX JEWELS” IN OIG FILES,
BUT HAVE RECENTLY DISCOVERED FROM ANQDHER SOURCE WHO WAS THE
OGC/IMO FOR 6 YEARS THAT OGC HAS BO: OF FILES ON FAMILY
JEWELS AND MOST PROBABLY HAS THE EDACTED VERSION.

$. Where are the personal and working , Pape: Goo the
DCI, DDCI and the heads of the directorates?’ Saree earl
files, soft files, and official files are included in thi:
request). \ = Ai LA, a

Aas ~s om Aare


7 : WORKING PAPERS re yr '
: ow ae
7 ow
w e* g ay
ret cpa! ‘
OIG SPECIFIC QUESTIONS: ve

1. Is there an index of IG reports?

THERE IS NO CENTRAL INDEX FOR ALL OIG REPORTS.

EACH STAFF HAS THEIR OWN FORM OF INDEX, ARE ELECTRONIC
AND THERE ARE. STILL SOMA COPY DNBERES. ONE STAFF USES
A FOXPRO DATABASE, ANOTHER USES A MICROSOFT. WORD INDEX, AND
FOR OLDER RECORDS USES A DATABASE OF FILES CONVERTED FROM
THE OLD WANG SYSTEM. ALL OIG REPORTS, INSPECTIONS, AUDITS,
ETC. ARE INDEX4h BUT NOT IN ONE LOCATION AND ON ONE SYSTEM OF
INDEXING.

2. Was there ever an IG report concerning LHO and the
Agency? 7 {
bel loolow4

3. Are records kept on requests from the DCI’s office
for IG reports? :

hap wm carr fhe

G TASEING pr Emre

SECRET
WORKING PAPERS


i) How are the records of the DCI, DDCI, and the heads of
the directorates indexed? What records are kept?

OCA keeps all correspondence, of substance, to and from
Congress. Their files are indexed by subject matter or by
Committee. (ie if something came in from SSCI re something
general, they may have filed it in a folder named SSCI.

2) Nothing for OCA

3) Which office controls the unredacted version of the
Family Jewels memo?

Had some folder level hits on the search terms “review” and
“staff”. In those files, their was 6 folders that contained
the term “jewels files”.

4) Nothing for OCA

5) Nothing for OCA

6) According to our RCS, independent office head’s working
and personal papers are destroyed.


ae ; SECRET

NOTE FOR: = Kathryn |. Dyer ~
FROM: Kathryn |. Dyer
DATE: 05/07/97 05:48:31 PM
SUBJECT: Query - -ARRB #17

17. What records might still exist of conversations or communications
between DCI and Cl Staff Chief James Angleton on Nosenko?

We can only address from perspective of Office of DCI and the records are

office to office communications, written records. ER has searched those folders
identified as holding Nosenko material. Of this material, three memoranda between
the O/DCI and C/CI date from the time Angleton was Chief/Cl. The memos are from
1969 and 71. Most of the other memoranda are from 1977-1978 and some

of these relate to HSCA requests for information and testimony relating to Nosenko.

cc:

SECRET

Relate te.

Fel vse
awunusiileon

brasfing Cony


13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

From the Desk of Diane C. Werbrich
OCA-COMPT/IMO

NOTE FOR:
FROM: Diane C. Werbrich

DATE: 04/28/97 01:38:35 PM
SUBJECT: JFK Assassination

Attached is the researched answers to the Assassination Board’s questions that | forwarded to you or
two weeks ago. Please review and let me know what you think. | also have sent this to Susan ins’

so that she can enlighten me on any thing I have overlooked. The meeting with the Board is scheduled for
8 May. Thanks Dee

A
ce:
“Susan K. MoMaing->

UNCLASSIFIED


13-00000

te

16 April 1997

Kathy”

Attached is a draft of ARRB proposed topics, etc. for
the DCI Briefings. A number of the questions rélate to
ongoing requests, either formal (CIA 1-16) or informal (CIA
IR 1-19). I have annotated the list to indicate the request
number. We should receive this week a status memo on
“requests for additional information and records” from .the
ARRB staff. I will fax you a copy.

If you feel a question is unreasonable or beyond the
scope, or you are not sure what they are asking, give me a
call. I don't want any one doing unnecessary work.

I sent a copy directly toGinda Cipriani), occ, since
sedtiucie caste

she is going on leave tomorrow. ,

Barry
% Kathy Dyer bes] pnb


FAX TRANSMISSION

ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD

To: Barry Harrleson
Fax #: 703-613-3063
From: Manuel E. Legaspi
Subject: | DCI Briefing
COMMENTS:

Hello Barry.

600 E STREET, NW, Sure 200
WASHINGTON, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 x261

Fax:
Date: April 30, 1997
Pages: 1, including this cover sheet.

Could you please add this to the list of questions for the DCI Briefing to be held on 08 May

1997?

Thank you for your assistance.

“We are interested in locating a series of correspondence between the CIA, Office of the General
Counsel and the Department of Justice, Assistant Attorney General during the late 1962-1963
time period. Would these documents be easily retrievable through a check of OGC
correspondence chron files (if such files exist)?”

(This question is based on our discovery of a number of isolated letters, from A.A.G. J. Walter
Yeagley and CIA GC Lawrence Houston in late 1962 and early 1963 regarding the CIA’s interest
in certain Cuban exile groups. A copy of one of these letters is attached.)


i [ea
Roof 2 ©
Pott PO

iteaoredle J, walter Yoagley
sasiztant Attorney Gaoerel
loterneal vecurty Visissca
Depart. eat uf Justice
Weshingtos 26, D4.

Dear ar. Yoagiey:

fisfereace ie'scade ta your letter dsted 31 Dacewder 196% Ia
whita you requested comssocta ca tho intersat uf Uns Ageacy (a tha
acUvities of the Junta Hevoiectonaria JUPZ), Urectoria Favolacion~
afta Lctudianlil (Dib), becond Netivaal J rect of (be Escagpray

(SER), and Alpbe 6.

Thia Agency s-eistsine an taloreal workisg relstica with tes
principa: leader of lus JOE. ‘yur intereat in the SUAS Sat act ccys-
tallzed sulficiettly to nace an aotinata of ear futaro cre cf Lis
or onizativa,

The DRE is uf interest to this Agency, WRCA spvacors. and
Supports ile propageads end isteigence caileclion activdy directed
ugatast Cuda aod selected areas is (29 wasters Bemisphore, No joist
sihtary action ls ccolecplatad for (he lorsesals ferure. Tas DHR
bea been atori.ed taal auleos their peraniliiary acticad are epecifi-
cklly approved in advance vy Une agency, thay willbe sudject to
preventive action aad prosecution cy tha Sppreeciate Latied vlates
Gueveraicent agentiss, Ag tha DRE le not a grow onder complete
Agemy Comiral, tuo above dues not Legare that (hey will act cucertase
tsolaled Paracnititery : oparstians sitsse price nolificetioa,

2acest fer 2 continuing coumerintelligeace interest ls tae per-
songal and activity of tis SYNE, this Agency has oo turther lalexext.
This Azaucy ts not In cuntect sith ibe crogp and, tn fest, Raines
& “Asad: olf pullcy toward iL extent eo counteriutollizence suerests
dictate, The 5FNZ ts distrusted and highly suspect is tke eyes i the
Cudan enle conuually, as wae recently €cphaaleed by ine dicciosure
ef Mts comscacdant's Budereniy of csignsible alpha 6% actios.


13-00000

This Agency g26 as-operotional istereut of cuctact with 4 ipke
GH, Sco al present bss bo posthole cei axvkuiledios value decades
Cl ils easrous ding redting oc Cie Ceca eta Couswety wy Che tise
Cioscre of the detret alice Csiween ta wader, Viet labaA, aad
Ele] CUTISME ZZ saenoyo, bead of Ung SFNE. Ucder thoir alliance,
GElicdsa ¢ diverted Alpba 65 faxds to fusce oFKE paretulitasy
opereicas esd ran Uc, £3 ostenalbiy Alpe 66 aclirities, Siicilarly,
ime Aigsa 6¢ cor.bat elexient aas no preveally explaitscie mibtary
Valee pecanee Lt 1s either sdsaticul wila or bedvily penatrated id the

GUTLEALL action group

Tea disnident element f Alpya 66 la refarred (o at titersat
ees as Cacrcand b, messing Commsado iiberty oF Lepauillo, ths
nitasase for Anlouds CUBSTA doi Yee, tho Alpha d4 olitary operas
cas AGeer; Commando Force, (ht nime of the place where Alpha
86 was tounded; and i 65, presawahly. Locanilla G&. No rellasie def-
lettion of wast sunctly comititates L 63 koe yot boca formuaiad Tals
Agescy, suvaver, ts incLzed lo regard the Alpha 66 split ae a sogere
fictal exertisa, in view ef tox contloulds pressoce in L G3, pariice~
larly ie combat group, of Alpta 8% cperationn personed!, who have

“peea and prevably will remaia CUTIGREEL' sea,

ath the exmuplica wt the intorest fa the DAE acd an loformal
Telatisa with Lite principal leader of th JUS au explained abeve, ~
this Agenty bos po Cursent oF peading ageratianal interest ta cay of
Usee srngs gad, 29 stated 19 Ons Agestz‘s letter te zou of 1b Sep=
teaser 1vO3, Aes no objection to lavestigatiaa €f tae grovps ead their
Activilies vy the Fodsral bureau of Invectigation.

Idectifyiey data oo the leaders and mesabers cf the disaidest
elemest of Alpaa 06, aa requested in your Iettes of 21 December 1268,.
are oning sasou.biod and will ba Jorwirdad ta you us soca ep available,

: ,

Sincerely,

Lawreacs [. ousted’
General Coaneal


ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

NOTE FOR: MFR

FROM: Kathryn I. Dyer
DATE: 05/07/97 05:27:00 PM
SUBJECT: | HSCA

18. What records are maintained at the DCI level on the House Select
Committee on Assassinations (HSCA):

HSCA: ER has four folders of material relating to the House Select
Committee on Assassinations investigation covering ‘September 1976 to
1979. This material is a mixture of administrative, procedural, and substantive
material. It includes information such as:
= -Correspondence to/from Committee Chairman and Counsel
--MFRs regarding meetings and/or discussions with Committee members and staff

- -MOUs regarding procedures, i.e., FBI background investigtions, handling of
documents, treatment of specific matters

- -Lists of staff members and subsequent additions/resignations
--Responses to HSCA inquiries, answers to interrogatories
- + Internal memos for coordinatior/approval

- Committee requests to determine if individuals being interviewed had
any relationship to/affiliation with CIA

- -Various outside letters/FOIA requests/press clippings

+ -Memoranda and correspondence relating to HSCA wrapping up
activities, e.g. handling. of documents/appreciation etc.

ce:

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


Nire

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

NOTE FOR: Kathryn I. Dyer
FROM: Kathryn I. Dyer
DATE: 05/08/97 06:17:44 AM
SUBJECT: Query ARRB- -5
5. What records would be kept of DCI tasking to other intelligence
community agencies in the immediate wake of the assassination (first
month).

Records of DCI tasking to other intelligence agencies could
exist in various records. Within ER, high level meeting files with respective
agencies (if any) and liaison folders must be reviewed. As was just merfoned,
NSA and FBI folders have been reviewed and no responsive document
located. That applies to this question as well. In addition, DCI chrono files
could contain references to tasking and are being reviewed. It should also be
noted that the DDO is (and historically has been) responsible for liaison

with the FBI. [One other but less likely possibility would be the DI Collection
Guidance Staff.]

There is also a formal requirements mechanism with respect to collection
tasking. These would be in the records of the Deputy to the DCI for National
Intelligence Programs Evaluation (established Sept. 1963). Predecessor to
IC. [NIPE records are being reviewed in part to address ARRB request 8.]
Files involving memoranda to/from DCI, meetings with DCI, action
memoranda and minutes of Critical Collection Problems Committee
meetings have been reviewed; no records indicatirig OCI tasking collection

have been located.

ce:

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
