# 104-10172-10273

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10172-10273

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

01

UNCLASSIFIED

SURECT. arenall

FROM.

RID/ARD/DU

GE 58

Otton dougnation, roars number, and

E./ RMO

8.

- SB/2110

9.

10.

11.

12.

RID/AN

BID/EDI

13.

- RIDIFI

is.

чоен

Д.a:

'AMAL

USE OMLY

¡ ROUTING AND RECORO SHEET

COMFIUENTIAL

SECRET

REVIEW OF PROCESSED OUT MATERIAL (POM)

BITPASIOM

I8/2

74 22

DATE

MaMO

ORAKIE'S

коттакого

MANTIALS

P

MB

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REVIEW OF

PROCESSED OUT MATERIAL (POM)

The CS Records Committee has

instructed that the attached

document be reviewed by res:

ponsible desk personnel. You

are to determine whether the

, document should be retalned,

coordinated or destroyed. Each

reviewer is responsible for

assuring that documents

necessary to protect CS opera-

tions and to assist in the

effective

discharge of CS

responsibilities are not

destroyed.

Check the appropriate box:

XI Retain (forward to RID/AN

with filing, indexing ur

X-referencing instructions)

Coordinate (forward to

appropriate desk)

Destroy (have an R. 0.

complete the stamp below

and forward to RID/ARD/DU)

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

The following action is

authorized:

Detain Rectum

Signed:

R.O. #318 Unit SB/BME

Note: Ir destruction, cite

Rielzaity +6 308-150156

03

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

3/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

cal.

SECRET

IMMIN TRIPO IM.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHSET

FROM:

TO

(WE/.

Fin

RIP

RI/AN

ROOM

NO.

195

DATE

ORRICCAT

IRITIALE

DOCUMENT ALMEIR

OFHA- 02872

DOCUMENT DATI

COMMENTS

NOTE: Il e 197 or erichmente de resporad traco llo et

lached dutanno sero lio doreriva al la ropy asdior esoca

ard bardon E di MADORD COPY la lO De rolelead la

la Atre el tto Daek, call tha Crarel fla Sacitos dos per

CHRONO - DETACNED

LF-I/CE

SK /CF

FICHRER

3% 3%

чиск

25.994

X

81.

82

13

Te-

RIIFY

T8 68 1010

rento se/Red

FILE TITLE

Esat.off rep.InFNINUD

22 dc715 15 6

FiLE NUMBER

ENGLOSURE

tons tres

ABSTRACT

221

INDEX

SECRET

2IBR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

VIA:

22

DISPATCH NO. 50:17-3972

28-2-4,

aAssiFicAtid

TO

: Dies, 15

nou lie at serian, Moone h

DATE: -

1Y Cotater 1952

Info:

Chief, sit

iction seguines: lone, for inforastion only.

-Ol 1..

Ia early ugust 1957, CrigOrI COLUB called on V. CCIE/Dund arked that

V.CCDE/A vera him in advance'

18 ans Soviet official wite about to be throa

out of Finisis as persona non erate, and ha noulu personelly sea to it that the

man left alsai quiotly und inmodistely? V/I says he repliod in a stern and

angry minnes, since when doos a little diplomat with the low rink of second

socrotary precure thet he lo so powerful as to ranove officials of his oun country

fron finland? If you are roally thit powerful, who are you enyuay and wint are your.:

real duties bere 1n Finland?" This unexpected answer allegedly disturbed GLUB

sufficiently ts.t the subfoot was pursued no furthor.

2. Quis's cuestion 1o interestine in vion of the SuoRilliG operation.

We are trying l find out tha exact dato of the conversation.

also 8a11 an li ciober that IVan SHISHKIN, also 1 monTs officer Te.E., V.AUiSHLa

cise) will da learing Finland POS in the week of 21-27 Ectober 1957.

tho second FIS cise officer in leave Finland l'0 in Ccioter 1957.

COLUE himself

left Finlan: diä His finily In Barly Septenber. and has not yet core back.

Ivsn VORDErET left with family on 1 Colober 1957.

niMit tenslaton

13 October 1957

Sistribution:

3 -17

2 - 5A

2 - Hels

14-1

CLASGIEICATON

201150156

runt

Mise

---

