|104-10186-10193
.

»| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

In the meaning of the Byiounge Laws, oie
.2 unauthwrtsed person la peobibited by law

SEC

CRET
‘NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRYCUba’ REPORT NO. CSC1-316/00624-65 *
susect Toudys TRUTIE Matilta ay OATe OTR §=—«10 February 1965
alias "Teobaldo" Un,
: oe N 7a NO. PAGES 2
oe rCuing 4 ue
Rays rong OF REFERENCES CS-211/00115-64

og

(page 11)

8 July 1964!
Ifo.” 1964 id

Washington, D.C.
Date acq. January 1965 FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS 15 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE,

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comments

The following report 18 one of a serics containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Source identified a photograph of Teudys THUTIE Matdilla
as being that.of the person known tu him as "Teobaldo" (true fall name
sotitinowt te Jand the same individual who was chief, also an _
instructor, of’ the Seccion Tecniéa (Technical Training Scetion ~
ST) in the MI Department (Department of Technical Operational
Support) in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General
Directorate of Intelligence ~ DGI). His offices are located
in Marianao,

2. Source described "Teobaldo" as being a Cuban citizen born
about 1940. He is about five feet seven inches tall, weighs

approximately 135 pou He has a white
hair, a small, str@4ght nose, a slim face,
"Teobaldo" walks with a slight limp in his

complexion, Light brow
and as clean shaven,

is, and hag a slim build.

left leg and speaks with a nasal twang.1,2
Headquarters Comments

1. A former Cuban diplomat and Cuban Intelligence (CIS) staff

4Iny

3 officer who defected in 1963 reported that one Teovaldo TRUTIE 5

ee (possibly identical with subject), burn circa 1938, was a 4

3 ae ie 3

2 SECRET tases oo =] 2

7 NO FOREIGN DISSEM ae!
‘STATE Tam Taray TNAYY Tae Tsx TaKX Tock Tra 2

REP.

cr ‘CLANT CINCSOF

TERS

Wow. Faald Fivsibonion indicated by “ED

fiat SA FORT WE/ SZ
USA won, WEXUAD

MH. SAR. {2} tyre
a SACL 4.5, ——_—_

L/w, qe :

LX" 1838; LX 2349)
U.. NO PROJECT (AMMUG}1)

af 'SC1-316/00624-6

“[esromarmalpereanpa |

WH WAVE. os
TOMSA B oe we oT

(2), C1 4, RID 1

Seen TTT)

FARRRT



ere SECRET
wy No FOREIGN DISSEM”  CSC1=216.G06 24-65
4.

second licuteaant in the Rebel Army and a member of the CS
training start, Source was a student in TRUTIE's intelligence
course from carly December 1962 to late January 1963, Part of
the course was conducted in TRUTIE's apartment ‘ou the twelfth
floor at the corner of Calle 13 and Calle N, Vedado, Habana,
Cuba, Source described TRUTIE as being approximately fave feet
three inckes tall, weighing 130 pounds, with fair sk ALL
black eyes, black hair, thin features, and a plight. build, fle
appeared to be well trained in Communist doctrine.

2. Teudys TRUTIE Matélla was due to transit Mexico enroute to New
: York City on 15 January 1965 to become the new 2nd Secretary
of the Cuban Mission to the United Nations.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

