“"to4-10347-1

1992
| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF

}0069|

RETURNTO CIA
Background Use Only
Oe Nok Reproduce

‘easenearon
“SECRET

Deputy Chief, WH/SA

Chief of Station, sara i
t

TYPIC/Operational
C MOC Amendment for Subject of 201-307337
‘ACTON REQUIRED FERENCE =

Action Required: Please Record Amendment

References 2 A. UFGA-11381, 27 September 1963
(MOC Amendment)

B. UFGA-15436, 23 April 1964
(ioc Amendment)

C. WAVE-8141, 19 June 1964

1s yazansmitted herewith are three (3) copies of an
amended MOC for Subject. This amendment has been written
fo provide Subject a raise in salary from $350.00 nox per
month to $400.00 net.

Per Reference C, the New York funding mechanisn

was discontinued with the issuance to Subject of check for
period 1-15 June 1964, Subject will be Paid henceforth at
JMWAVE beginning. with period 16-30 June 1964,

‘ncaa o
MOC (3 cys) - H/W
IDEN Sheet - ¥3e Hi

(3 cys)
Sea acts arofaa!

Distribution;
3 - Addressee w/ Moc - a/w
IDEN Sheet - USC

Andrew Ks REUTEMAN

“tr
ore Tet | ottosnioas
22 June 1999425 BA
UFGA-16604
SSSA

201-307337
4

secon wh locy



affty

LAL MANES

: : ‘SECRET
MEUCRANDUI! OF ORAL COUNITIONT

TO : Chief, Special Affaire Staff

FRC =: Chief of Station, JuWAVE

SUBCECT: Engagenent of _ IDEN A ant Bes

and Project Charge. The Subjsct individual hes been
oral contract Or use under TYPIC and ic to de charge
nest center. The effective date of the oral contract is '
e 1964 and it shall cortinue until terminated dy
-Uyeu Fiftsen days actual notice.

ty Aporeval. The apprepriate security approval to
utilize SE: iS requested has beoa obtained. oA Granted 6 February
1963 via DIR-18422, 6 February 1963 peewearnnazcisiesntenemaiersierzzsina

2.0 faa

3. Citizenship. The Subject is a Cuban citizen and was.
borer cn “14-February 1937 at Matanzas, Cuba SS
aad reside IDEN B E .
4. C: poneation: Comzenctug on the effective date of thia egree-
ment, Scbj- % paid compensution at the rate of $ 448.14
per month. Such payments to be nsde following completion of antisxac—

tory service.

Sudject wil1/AAEXXXHX be obligated to pay U.S. incoae
U/XXXEXXXXKES Goducted from the above stated paid som,

Djcct IS/SKKMEK oligible for ijocial Security. # EN C
Subject ic married tnd hes a total of three dependents
othsr than vinselr. subject's dependents ave/EXkkXXNN residing in tho

U.S., U.S. pecsessions, Canada, Mexico, the Canal Zoic, or ths Ropublic
of Panama.

rtera sad/or Subsictence. Tuo Subject ‘will /MXXUXS be
fereere and/or aubsievence. when operationally necessary.

6. &
furnished 6

rational Expenses. When properly authorized, Subject will
Yor?

Te Gr
be reinturi

a. Operational travel including mileage claims for
officiel use of his persone! autcacbile.

b. Opsrational hotel expenseg, merle, telephona calla, etc.

er Coasitnonts. Bonug. With prior approval of the Chief
bonus say bo authorizied for outstanding performance in
sty. The amount cf che tonus rill be comnensurate vith

© vichs tcken end the results vhich woro achieved; amount not to
e@te22¢ $360.09 per any single bonus payoent. In the event of Subject's
dasta in the line of duty, an amount not to exceed $5,000.00 will ba
paid to Subject's estato.

9. Contingent Obligations. No commitments othsr than those
ataini above Have been mado to the Subject.

: SIGNED:

eft <A Com)

cafftradt Wpproviag Ciilear

Officer ,

RUVS afd:

SECRET:

&S Capy der te 7 R57

201 -307337


urd

IDEN A

“IDEN B

IDEN C

So A
~ uel #2 WEA MELOY

SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT
TO UFGA-16604
———
- Miguel DIAZ Isalgue

- 2328 N.E. 6th Avenue
Miami - Florida

c

_ Social Securtty/

SECRET

2C/- 307 337
