# 104-10071-10100

## Page 1

1104-10071-10100

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

10

Chief, WH Division

INFO.

Chief, WOMUSE

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

Margaret RANDALL de MONDRAGON

ACTION REUUIRED - REFERENCES

RYBAT MHALPHA

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET / RYBAT

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Action Required:

See paragraph 3.

Peference

: HMMW-16296, 5 April 1968

The following items

from LIBIGHT/LIMUD coverage

concern contacts of Subject who are believed to

be of interest:

A.

magazine of Students for a Democratic

the

Society, signed

by

Jerry *BODANES, thanks Margaret for her poems

which

they are using.

The magazine is scheduled

to

be oii the press arouná way iû.

The letter cieariy

indicates

that the SDS was behind the student seizure

of Columbia University.

"Right now

our

glorious brothers have

seized Columbia University--

now named Malcolm X University--and over which an

N.L.F. flag now flies.

The others, faculty, deans,

managers,

axe all scurrying and speaking

pious--

saying SDS this, SDS that,

while we hold

five

buildings in joyousness

and the most serious

preparations to resist,

our movement has

over reached."

Enclosed is a check made out against the account of

the SDS in the Chemical Bank New

York Trust Company,

2681 Broadway, New York, for

the amount of $50, and

signed by Robert M. *SHAPIRO.

Continued.

Attachments:

As. listed (9), h/w

Distribution:

Orig & 2 - C/WHD (w/atts - 1 copy each)

2 - C/WOMUSE (w/o

atts)

7538

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA - 34588

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

DATE

20 May 1968

HAS FILE NUMBER

201-

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

• DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA- 34688

1415 Kearny

Attachment B: Letter from Heiner *BASTIAN,

san Francisco, California 94135,

signed Heiner &

BASTIAN has made arrangements

the editor-in-chief of AKZENTE to publish works

of revolutionary poets, and he asks Margaret's

help in collecting them. BASTIAN says that he is

going to Berlin about 1 July, to Prague in early

autumn for a "group 47 meeting," and to Cuba in

early November.

Attachment C:

Letter from Jaime *CARRERO,

Art Department of the Interamerican University in

San German,

Puerto Rico.

CARRERO has apparently sent

Margaret a series of drawings based on Dr. Martin

Luther KING'S assassination.

He describes them as

"poetic...but full with guts and disgust."

He says

a possibility CBS will do a program on

paintings and the work in his Art Department.

CARRERO is going to Columbia University in the

summer of 1968 to study and plans to distribute

El Corno there.

Attachment

Letter from Susan *SHERMAN,

6th St.,

She tells

Yo. 3, New York, N. Y.

of her plans

on 23 April to speak about the conference for their

week of protest activities.

tells Margaret

that there are

three people in Cuba she thinks

would be interested in

"The Hippie Book."

JoSe *BELL Lara, of Calle J#556, Vedado, Habana,

who is connected with Pensimento

Critico;

psychologist Gustavo *TORROELLA,

Ave. 3A #22,

Marianao, Habana;

ana Lonania *ARUCA,

99-4722,

MINREX-Direccion de Organismos Internacionales,

Depto. ONU 516, La Habana.

Attachment

someone associated

Margaret got a letter from

with CATERPILLAR.

of getting married to Marie *BENOIT

in England this

summer when he

there to work in

applied

philosophy.

Therefore,

he tells Margaret he cannot

go. to Cuba

An interesting development was the

fact that Margaret RANDALL received a letter from Moscow from

LuiS *SUARDIAZ, whose return

address was given as the Cuban

Embassy, Moscow,

SUARDIAZ asks for Suzan SHERMAN

(see paragraph ID above).

SUARDIAZ says he will be working

as Cultural Counselor

in the Cuban Embassy and hopes Margaret

will keep in touch with him and send him things of interest

(in a literary line).

In attachment G,

Sergia MONDRAGON, Subject's husband,

indicates, that Margaret RANDALL is planning to travel to

Venezuelaifrom 15 to 30 June.

It is suggested that Head-

quarters may wish to send Venezuela some background

on Margaret with suggestions for

action by the Venezuela

Station.

F0=4

53 ₫

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/ RYBAT

X CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2 of

3

---

## Page 3

14.00000

• CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

ELASSIFICATION

SECRET /RYBAT

H SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA - 34688

Attachments H and I concern a book which

Margaret

is hoping

to write on Fidel CASTRO.

According to Sergio's

letter of April 18, she is planning to go to Cuba in October

with a tape recorder,

and then,

based on these tapes, will

write her book.

suggests Doubleday as a publisher;

however, on 25

April 1968 Paula McGuire of Pantheon Books

(attachment I) wrote Margaret saying that publisher might be

Interested.

suggested that WOLIME may have contacts

in these two publishing houses.

disi Xe

for Willard C. CURTIS

3-5€

1.S:

53a

LSE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

PAGE NO

3

of 3

---

