'104-10185-10093) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
a ates CENTFAL INIELLGENCE AGLNCY : F

4 The qeriertes scat Lafcrmalinn adenune Use Karena Dahmer of he Uatios Sinaes witess tae wvkcing of Oe Beckitigs Sawn Tle
YY WORE png SS fet TOL he erummtoae oy reaniog Of webee Uh Any DRAKCAL fo A URECiOar ond pate w pecheenied by 6@

. SECRET : ae)
. KO FOREIGN DISSEM i

a meroaT NO. = CSCI. 316//01205-64

corey Cbs

Svaect Juan GUIDO Lices DATE DisTA, §©=—«-1S. Septouber’' 1084 -

i No. Péors ,

: Bs

: REPERENCES RETURN To ea

care or 1964 nd U. Cia;
pone Do Not Re, se Only

a Washington, D. Cc. : . Prod roducg:

DATE acQSeptember 1964 "HELD SEFORT NO. i

Tass 1S UREVALUATED ROGRMATION, SOURCE OMADNION ABE DIFOATIVA, ArvanisAl OF CONT? iy TEVTATIVE “ay

. source A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
q Service until April 1964.
: Readquarters Comments——{-- 7 : i ¥
. ‘The following report is one of a series eer personaltt7 ‘s

: information provided by the source and includes supplesental -:
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
firat oes with this uate

\ ) . "gen GuID9 does Jo known as 4 couriar acd often visits the "iH"
Building of the Direcoion General de Inteligencia (Gensral . ..,,
Directorate of Intelligence - BGI) to pick up and deliver - -
‘ peas Aocording ta source, GUIDO is not a member of the DOI.
2,3,4,5

wn 8 Om riggs wer raagece ge

«

cues dn untested. ‘source, ig a report ated’ Maren 196
. oo. @a@ Juan Guide LICRA Figueredo was a private in th
Intelligence Departazsnt, G-2, of ths one eumoaats of £a0

x Arned porces GUUNFAR) .., tee 3 ena

vy an ‘ateacbanat toa report ‘Gated 6 Yobrusry 1962, vas ao
list of mesbers of Cuban G-2. Included on tiig list was one
Juen G. LICEA rie he phi who waa identified as a soldier in
the Rebel Aray; O~! Beran Ppa ys eae

it 3. (In July 1062 an untosted source roported that Guido LICEA was a

jue . ‘Communist and a-G-3 sargeayt in Habana and assigned to the
G-2 offices. at 5th bases Lith Streets, Ho waa-born about 1922,

&
4
3
2
sy

ey Fy 7 7), @ 1G), cl 4, MD y
van : po

3 ,



a2e

fn five fect ten iochow tell, 180 pounte, and has a dock complexion.
Prior to 1939 ho wae a carpenter's helper. #¢ has a brother, Walter,
stationad with the Rebel Amey in Pitar cai Rio,

The records of this Agency reveal tha: fdilcwing travel ot jean
Guido LICEA_Figueredo, identified ag a Cuhan diploaatic courtor,
taken from {oficial travel manifesta). Hys dare of birth was given
as 14 February 1929 in Mabana. 2y : : :

13 September 1963 - Left Habana for Mexico i
15 September 1963 ~ Arrived Rio de Jauciro from Madrid at
15 September 1963 - Left! Riv de Janoiro for eee ai
11 October 1963 - = Arrived Brussels from London, ae PAGS? ee
12 October 1963 > Left Bruesela for Parig 6; os yw rf
14 October 1963 «.~ Left Goneva for Rome, joe; eye rig wer
12 Novembor 1964 - Left Habana for Mexico cha i
14 Novomber 1963. ~ Arrived Montevideo from Rio de Janeiro t
15 November 1963 - Loft Wountevideo for Santiago }
17 December 1063 .- Left Rio de Janeiro for Montayid &
@1 January 1964... ..- Arrived Brussels from Prague , fr.
22 March 1964 = Loft Santiago for Montevideo ace §.
23 March 1964. , - Left Montevideo for Rio de Janeiro :

In a report dated 16 July 1964, it was stated that J. aa GozDO' Lites,

a Cuban diplowatic.couries, bad. applied for a Cangdian non-iamigrant., .

visa in order to $isit the Cubao Embassy in Ottava for a period of ~~ nf

one week, Tho following. information on GUIDO was take from the $s
\ application: ‘
1.) Guipo was born on 14 Femuary 1929 in Babana, Cuba, and. 19. - Hy
2 Cubsn citizen. He is a diplomatic courier for the Ministry : }

of Foreign Relations and hie purpose of. entry icto Canada was
listed ea diplomatic courier. He holda Cuban diplomatic. ,. gu- |:
passport D/81/250 issued on 10 April 1964 at'Habana. His

permanent address is Calzada y G, Vedado, Habana, Cuba,

anae
OW PA OL

Deccare nupar a

Yoleteen

oe cone “ pene eee
ee on cee ieee

So eRe ek 7

