# 104-10110-10012

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10110-10012

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ISECRET

17 July 1961

SUBUSCT

BARKER, Bernard I

201-251689

1.

me Subfoot, an operational Asset of both lavate station

and MA'S, is currently in the Washington, D.C, area at the.

suggestion of it. Hoard lit, in an effart to resolve his alti-

sonship status.: He was interlowed by a representative. of

WH/WSO on 15 July 1961 at the Shoreham Hotel to devolos all

available background Information concerning his loas of oltison.

abdp and previons steps taken to restore 1t.

2. BARKER was born 17 March 1917 at Havana, Caba of a

nativo born US, Latber and a Osban nother Ids birth un recorded

at the V.S. Embaaay and ho was rocognized as baving aoqutired Us.

ostisenahip by blrth through the eltisenship of his father., He.

travelod, not on x U.S, passport, but on an identity dard procta

bits U-S. eltirenship.

During Horld war It, he antered the U.3.s

Jay its Corpo, as thot dom on ble 12th idasion over Germany

and was a prisoner of var for 16 montha

He vas hanckably separate

as a Giptatto

3. La 1950, along with doveral Caban born, V.S. eltisens wi

vero vas veterans, he entered the Cuban palles farço, there bia

bilingual abtlities soon brought him advancement. fe vas, at this

tina, In controt vith Mr. SPRARS, the FBI representative at the

Anarican Babassy In lavana, and also vorked alosely with the

Treasury representatite in breakdng up tho narcotics ringa plying

betwaen Florida and Cuba. He sarved as escort for Mrs. THUMAN and

Margarot on thedr volt to Cuba, for which he received a White

out to

House contiendation:

Lo In BARKER's opiator, he becane the object of personal

spito on the part of an unaned imbassy staff member, who took

action to revoke his oltizenship status based on his membership in

the Cuban police. In an effort to rectify his plight,. Mr. SPEARS,

the Enbassy FBI representative, sent him to Dr. Mario LAZO, &

loading Havana attorney, to prepare the cano for a ploa to regain

SECTET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

I SECRET

atizenship. Accordlng to BAKER'S recallection, this accurad

1= 1953. DI. IAZO complled a fortildablo Illo on the Subjest

and was 1n consuntastion with a lashlagton, Dol. lazal fira,

wdch BARKER dimly recalla as that of Bahard Bennatt WILLIANS,

uho was to handle the case locally.: A privato bill vas intro

duced In the 8ird Congress by Congressman WILLIAHS of How Jersey

to restore the sabjent's citizenship, but BA:13ß doss not iron.

why no action was taker on the bille :At the tina, ha has in

financial difficultles and took a job as s tractor driver out..

side Havana for about 8 nonths, in wnlch perlod ho had no contact:

wlth DT. I220, who, as BARKER belleves, Interpreted hda failure

to appear in the offsco as a lack of intorest in proszing the case

to a anacessitil conclusion.

The Sabjest podated out that Dra Marlo LAZO astered tho

V.3, about a month ago and la non la the lashlagton aresy he

belloves Jin NOst 1s in contäct vith hiz, Be knows De. TAZO Le

Identity of the hashingta

locally.

BARKER rocaLLe

Ington on one occasion, and Bennet HICLIANS las the naze ho

rocalled.. Ho believed the lawyer tas lavolred in the Senator

Macarthy hearings.

?: Based on the above lafortion, the followine recommend

attons aro nace:.

8.

It. James lot, be requested to ascertals frou Dr

arto LAZO the name of the Washington Inn firm whtch handled.

Subject's case In 1953, and the reason for the fatlure of the

spectal billi

I SECRETI

---

## Page 3

14-00000

I SECRET

SECREI

OSAPH

---

