# 104-10162-10086

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10162-10086

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

510

DATE

-aL: 1 OCT 60

LASSINED PRESSIT

SERRET

• DIRECTOR

15-8

FROM • [LOIDON] .

ACTION, 6/NH 9

ero a DEs, o/wei, Do/p, coo, acorja, cine z, s/c 20

(R))

dr time s

2202-3

OCT 1 0949z 60

ROUTINE

IN 21068

DER CITE CONS 3878

E/S EATENT: • DISSEMINATION APPLICIOLE

•TO RELAT ENVOUR SHET CASLES.

10 FOLLOVING REPORT RECEIVED ERGi (SURil: -2 ON 30 SEPT.

CABLED THROUGH UNHET CHANNEL Iii VEEN SUEUICT. [SNOTH REQUEST

CABLE COMMENT ON RECURSEY REDOME AS SOGI AS POSSIDLE,

PASTICULARLY OiL TO LINDARD O. SECURITY F THE 73D LEADERS.

SOURCE: OFFICIAL CRITISH SEIVICE FROM "NEY AND UNTRIED

SOURCE. " DOI: LATE MUGLIST SE.

2A DUPING THE THIRD -U% N: AUGUST EE A SPANISH

JOUFNALIST NAS INVITIO DY THE FIVE LEADERS OF THE FRENTE

REVOLUCIONARIO =ÜORICO CERDI, MANUEL ANTCO VAPONA,

MAILE: ARTINE SUES!, ER- JUSTO CARRILLO VERNANDEZ, JOSE

IGNACIO RASCO Y LETHUDEZ AND AURELIATO SAICHEZ ARINGO, TO

LUNCH IN A CUZI: -ESTAURANE iN EXICO CITY WERE THEY DISCUSSED

THEIR PLANS SO LOUDLY, CHELESSLY A'I) SO INS-SERESTLY THAT

THE SPANIAYD FOU

& IT DITTICULT TO TAKE TIEN SERIOUSLY AND

COULD TO SET TEEM CRGANIZINE A SUCCESSTUL RISING LENINST

i tardions

As trot.

- SECREL

RIPAOOUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINE OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

Copy tis.

REPUR 3

only

Do Not Emicisce

5-010

---

## Page 2

4-00000

CLUSSIFIEO VESSISE

Lindaje

3T2E30

FAvE,

TS C15. RE PEGIME. THEY SESHEO TO LiCK di CONStarATOr

POLANCO THUS EXPOSING TREYSELIES TO THE BANGER OF 221NG

LIQUIDATED AS A GROUP BY CUSAN GOVT AGENTS WHO WERE PUTHLESS

ECUGH TO ATTEMPT THIS IF THEY FELT THE SITUATION HARRAIRES

•I'• POREVER, BY LIVING AND ASSECIATING IS REROUP TUSY MADE

IT EASIER FOR THE CUEAN ENSASSY TO WITCH CHEW.

J. THE FAD LIADERS STATED TINY LED FICEIVING "VERY LARGE

MUNNAILRO" Di ANIS PROG TUS WIATED STATES, PAPIRENLY EITH TIE

CONNIVANCE DE VOSO RUTHORTLES. THEY LIPLIES TIZER MIS MERE SEEIG

SUGGLED INTO MAXICO CITY FIREN THEY LERE CACHES. TIN: CISCUSSED THEIR

PLAN FOR SETTINO LO A MC:O TRISHITTINO STATION IN MOILO TO EAGNICAST

TO THEIR :FILIATED GACUPS ZISELURE IN LAGI: MENAGÁ ANE PROPAEREDA

TO CUBÃO THE SONIARO E. CHET TUESE UNPROMICING VENTUES, MIER TRE

TIÑICAN GOVT : 1ES PRESENT FRUS OT MAD, IND SUCCES-CO T.= 733

DO ITS BROAECASTING FROM MOBILE SORTS.

HO THE SPO LEADERS INDICATES THEY MERE PREPAPING ME INVASION EE CUBA

AID FROM THEIR REMARKS ABOUT E: THE TICHIQUE AND DIFTICITIES CE

SUCH AN OPERATION, THE SPANIARS GUESSED THAT THEY WERE MING IDWISED

BY UOS. MILITARY EXPEPES. LE OFFERED TO INTRODUCE THEY TO A SPARISE

MILITARY EXPER. NO LIVING IN MEXICO SUT THEY SUOWED LITTLE LITEREST.

SO THE FPD LEADERS INVITID THI SPASIARD TO DROP HIS CTHER

ACTIVITIES AND JOIN THEM AS AN ORGANIZER AT ANY SALARY IS THOÜGHT

PASCHABLI. (THEY APPEARED BELL SUPPLIED WITH TUNES., ME DID LOT DEPLY

DEFINITELY, SUT HE HAS NO INTENTIDY OF JOINING THEM BECAUSE HE HAS

LITTLE FAITH IN THEIR ABILITIES, AID BELIVES IT THEY COSTINUE IN THEIR

PRESEST VEIN THEY VILL RUN ATCUL OS MEXICAN AUTHORITIES CENO OF LESSAGES

SERREL.

ASTE• REPACOLSTION EY OTHER TIEN THE ISSUINO OFPICE IS PACHIBITED. *

---

