j104-10180-10037|

[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SUBJECT: JURE Repeated Reference ‘to May 196% Invasion
i Weave - C. ¥eI05

1. The following way be of interest to SAS

2. On or about 6 Mar 64, and
(known generaily in Los Angeles as supporters of JURE) ‘told repre-
sentatives of the (private) California Jatelligence a los
Angeles, that they planned to invade Cuba by 20 May 64

3. wade no secret of their JURE-affiliation
and’ solicited a donation of $92.00 to equip one fighter.

a in February 1964, had previous. Sees $92.00

to buy an M-lk" for a fighter. tedly
told that if Castro's departure meant control of cube vy
JURE and RAY, he wasn't so sure he wanted Castro to go.

- end ~



cat

tntorview of Manuel (ancle) Say
Cone W235,

Chief, Con:set Division (Support)/ | 2270 ton
2 March 6h

SAS/EDE Por your. lone
G0 1908 a



anes eret

: sth 7;

nat

25 February 1964

SUBJECT Interview of Nazucl (tarloto) HAY (00/C Case 42315)

Interviewed on 24 Feb 6h,) laescrived the circustances

of the recorded statement as follovs:

: 1, "in connection with ey Spanith language radio
prograg, ac well ac in furtherance of my personal interests
in Cuban affairs, I contrived to interview Manuel (Manolo)
RAY cr the occasion of his visit and wyeech at Los Angeles
on 9 Dec 63, RAY Io the leader of the supposedly unti-Castro
erup known as JURE, or Junta Revolucfonurin Cubana. The
interview, with RAY's peraissfon, wus taped while we vere
proceeding via Volkswaen te the airport, RAY's chauffeur,
sienificantly, wag a JURE surperter, Manolo GONZALEZ who,

I recull, was emotionally condemning the US in front of the
Loa Angrles Civic Center at the time of the aboftive Buy of

Pigs {invasion attempt,

2. "As you will note in the taped record, I was
brutally frank with RAY. ft vas my Intention to try to
convince him that his stand did not differ markedly fron
that of the Communists. Kelther KAY, nor JURE, are prone
to attack Castro frontal nelr response to everything

: is a criticitom or un attac! Butiote, RAY's devotion
to soctaltem ts pitifully obvious, and reminds te once
more that he did not break with Cactro. It was Castro
vko threy him out, after the formve mide it clear tn
Fevruary 1959 that his object way the Coowunszution of
Cuba. If Castro had not murdered Cumi}lo Clenfuegos and
Huterto Matos, chances ure RAY would still be with hia,

3. "As you will note, BAY espouses pudlic ownership
of electric power facilities, transportation, communications,
ete. His defense Is tased exclusively on the allegation,
probably true, that tke extension of electric power into y
rurel ereas {6 not economically feasible, hence neglected
by private industry. No other reason 1s advanced for tie cae
nattonalization of other industries, At any rate, RAY
speaks for hiaself in the Interview, and in the unhappy,
but unlikely event that RAY and JURE ever come to prominence
in Cuba, with or without US government ald, the record will
have more iocediate and core devastating significance, As
a watter of fact, one would do well to translate, transcribe

and study it.”

send +

i260 ips track, one side only tepe recording of
2 Dee 63 RAY interview In Spanish
EY cid deren



Manolo Ray /JURE
Case &7,315
13 FRB 64

Chief, Contact Division (Sarpect) 2270

DOo/os
lca 2702 ee :
ere is a note that ha
SS/EDE hag not yet fournd| |
1908 think this report is

fron jand in her words,



CORPS) 2-92.22
Vid 42 34737

10 Fetruary 1964

Gubject: Caze 42315 - Manolo Ray/JURE

I heard Manolo Ray's specch to tho Cuban exiles in Los Angeles,

1.
The

and aloo bat an opportunity to visit with him for a few minutes.
following 1s ey evaluation of Ray.

2. Ray tries to make clear that tho Cuban problem is a Cuban
problem, should be handled ty Cubans, and should iiot be considered as
an International situation. He says that the Cubans in the US cannot
cit and wait for things to change. At the same time, he decries any
kind of discrimination in employment of Cuban exiles in the U3, claiming
that their stills ané their hopes will deteriorate. I suspect that he
feels that they will not bo able to contribute financially if they are.
not employe?, also. lic makes a big, point, too, that they must rely
heavily on the people within Cuba, adding that there are many there who
eust cooperate now in order to get work and food, but that in their
hearts they are not pro-Fidel. He wants them particularly to get the
nescage that he 1s not against thep but necds their help,

to favor a vovernnental system like Puerto Rico's,
described as a "coorerative system,” and praises the
dea of governzent autonomous corporations. At the same time, he says
o 1c in favor o* caintaining private property and supporting education.
5 aim, he says, 1s first to get Cuba out of the Soviet area, and then
into the dezocratic area, but adde that it would not ve proper to trade
a leftist diccetorsnip for a rightist.

4. Of some 4OO or 500 people who heard Ray speak, most were some-
what indifferent, even critical at first, but at the end seemed to

approve.

end -



i Oe gente

il power
[ewww easPawanel i

a a wn ats

Vey. |
n - t
i a Dee Gs He Lt

oe 2
Ib ies
Adamul la
hed FatlA.
jUantapas pues spgueeuatin
fp? ¥ Adtran’ *
bi kA,
Pas ;
: ttt a
hag! keen mn kA Af __|ia’
dd kn

ah stoeek :
Ce arena ont hashed i
refashion Ga ae :
(Cus he a ie ne
whey tin Unk. A. dee ao a Atuadh :
her 0 wth Keg > few’ “y |


Cc set imum sm

a wy
LANG wae 62294

FROM SUPPORT

GROUP ONE EXCLUDED PROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MEW CASE 42,315
REFa WA. 62213 :
we SAS, WANTS 10 XXKK THANK ALL CONCESNED FOR THEIR HELP AND

ASSISTANCE ON HIS RECENT TRIP TO LA. :

2, RE | Contract, |IS INTEXESTED IN| REPORT OW

THE ACTIVITIFS OF MANOLO RAY IN THE LA ARYA, RYSULTING FROM INTERVIEW

WITH RAY. WE ARE OPENING THIS CASE T COVER.
3. PLEASE SUBMIT O0A(S) REPORT TO SATISFY REQUINUMENT. ‘THANKS.

S ZECRER

