# 104-10132-10289

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10132-10289

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

)

CONFIDENTIAL

¡INSPECTOR COMERA!

L77-1184

31 May 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

FROM

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

John H. Waller

Inspector General

RETURN TO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

03

: Gary M. Lonnquist?

: Your 29 March 1977 memorandum; Subject: Allegations

Regarding. Lee Harvey Oswald File

l: Pursuant to reference, representatives of this office

interviewed Mr. [Lonnquist/extensively on 30 and 31 March regarding

what he thought happened vis-a-vis the Oswald file. when the...

incident happened in approximately May 1975 Mr. Lonnquist/wasa

GS-4 file clerk, brand-new to the Agency and working in the Security

Records Division of OS:

Further, during the time in question

Mr. [Lonnquist was reading a popular book entitled "They Have Killed

the President" by Robert Sam Anson.

2. Mr. Lonnquist] convinced us that he was confused and there is

no reason to believe that a name was erased from SANCA or that a file

was destroyed. It is quite possible that he became confused over the

reference to one L. Oswald in a covert file on Raymond E. Wright.

Mr. Wright was investigated by the Agency in 1955 and contained in

that file, as a part of a San Francisco Field Office investigation,

was a police report listing 66 persons who on January 6, 1941 signed

a petition in Los Angeles protesting the prosecution of a left wing

labor leader. All 66 names,

including L. Oswald were indexed. Since

Lee Harvey Oswald was 2 years old in 1941 they were obviously not one

and the same.

However this may not have been apparent to a brand-new

GS-4 clerk.

Attached hereto are copies of 3 separate statements

prepared by Mr. Lonnquist which further explain how his confusion may

3. Representatives of this office have spoken tozall partici-

pants in the 22 March farewell dinner in which Mr. Lonnquist made

the statements about the Oswald file.

Finally, Mr. LLonnquist was

convinced of the need in the future to report such concerns officially

rather than at a social gathering. The purpose of this memorandum is

to enable you to close your records on the matter and to advise that

no further action will be taken.

Attachments:

a/s

CONZREMTIAL

Licelie

John H. Waller

E2 IMPDET

CL BY: 055636

05715261A

---

## Page 2

4-00000

STATEMENT OF CARY M. LONNQUIST)

First of all I can't sit here and relate exactly what happened.

Its been almost two years and the incident is very vague.

In my mind it appears a name was possibly deleted from SANCA.

There are a number of explanations.as to why the name appears to have

been deleted but actually wasn't. SANCA could have failed--it was failing

show 'No Hits'. It would

because in the middle name the

E and A are transposed.

Its also entirely possible that, as a new

employee at the time, I didn't completely understand the situation and

jumped to an erroneous conclusion.

In SRD, from Mr. Tom Cole on down, they would not be party to

anything irregular. There's absolutely

no way Mr. Cole would stand for

anything irregular.

I believe there were three separate incidents:

1.

A covert security file was returned inadvertently to SRD. The file

either made reference to Lee Harvey Oswald or was in one of his

AKA's. I don't remember. I say 'returned inadvertently to SRD'

because the file was on a permanent 'charge out' to OS/SAG. I

checked with SAG and they wanted it back. I believe I checked

SANCA to ascertain the correct name for the 'charge out slip' also.

The name on the file was, possibly, WRIGHT and the name on the

'charge out slip' was L. OSWALD. (This is possible and probable

because if L. OSWALD is entered on SANCA, the file number on WRIGHT

will appear because an 'L. OSWALD' is referenced in WRIGHT's file..

2. A short time later Joyce (I don't recall her last name) from the

'Freedom of Information' staff asked me to do a name check for her.

(I was sitting at SANCA so I offered to do the name check for her.)

The name check was on OSWALD and his AKA's.

(I had just recently

finished reading a book entitled "They've Killed the President"--

the names I checked on SANCA appeared in that book as AKA's for OSWALD.)

3. A short time later, and I don't recall why, I checked SANCA again

for that same file that referenced OSWALD.

This time it wasn't

I checked it several times and asked the Chief/Indicies

about it.

She said the name should be there. I asked Mr. John 03

Bollinger if he could check the original FOIA case. He did (I was

3/N

---

## Page 3

14-00000

with him and he explained why I was wrong. I didn't really under-

stand but accepted it as I was a new employee. In retrospect, I

can see there are any number of explanations for what happened but

a new employee at that time, I just didn't understand them.

Mr. Tom Ente has shown me a Covert Security file that's relatively

small, does make reference to an OSWALD, and is not in OSWALD's name.

The name on the file is RAY EARL WRIGHT and the SFN is 116942. The name.

'RAY EARL' means nothing to me but the last name, WRIGHl, seems to

ring a bell.

This security file seems also to match the description of

the file I, at one time, couldn't locate; it's a Covert Subject file in

a name other than OSWALD's and does reference him. I believe this is the

file I couldn't locate two years ago.

I have probably inconvienced quite a few people today as a result

of a misunderstood situation two years ago.

At the time I did believe

something irregular had happened and the explanation I received didn't

completely satisfy me.

This has bothered me for quite some time now

and I'm finally relieved to get an explanation that clears my mind.

0.3

Mir cle 30 - 1977

Date

2

---

