“oa-t0119- )-10085}. jaw 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 57
. E. Howard HUNT cous

; aves TRIMS PLACE OF BIRTH Sees : ag
9 October 1918 Hambhur oN Vark ~- OF =

omy

cope

aoe IA
POSITION BILLET NO. 38-38 2.
Chief, EUR/CA P 656 { Catt
S.S.N./MIE. SER. NO. :
APPROVED pessberEaacanLansis
: 2 Wovens
ORGANIZATION
APPROVED
SISESHE{ ©} Y QeessSEnistssetesessssssseientteions i
COMPONENT ye.
p APhxOTED
Sus- Division 4 CONCUR
APPROVED
ER R c/ss/osn vate
TO: CHIEF, CIB biabied CONCUR
tid dd cid. 4 Jsn0uUguSEwouSuUSUNSuESUDISOuSUUSUBUESESSUEEEESSUEE-y-~"7-4
GB U DATE
IT 18 REQUESTED THAT SPECIAL CLEARANCE APPROVAL (_yJolLLE
CONCUR
APPROVAL BE GRANTED FOR THE SUBJECT IN THE FOLLOWING SPECIAL TN eonouED
Pt T' "K" and “BYC IN PHASE
ROJECTS. rea once
(alo indicated in Column at right) APPROVE!

JUSTIFICATION REFERENCE

pao.

pwase

AS DD/P representative on the CIA team preparing

a6
historical material for the Johnson library, Mr. Hunt will ay
be required to have access to documents in both the TKH ao,
os and BYEMAN systems.
on
33
sa
é s OT
ss OTK
57
eee REQUESTER’S MAIL ADDRESS (Ra-BIdg) Stanature a TrrLE 86
ATTACHMENT 7 BOR Head uart rs Git ee et os
TO: CHIEF, PSD/ID 4 MATE SD sa
Zz by i
FOR ACTION INDICATED  conaL_“_ eYEMAN OTHER
(Speci Lat a2
Cues 6 RYC
TO: CIB, c- eats: 99 (Huy. (76,
tate) 2G Go atnaser tact lesnatel sot stearita-eet ei cn lta urce ne atewmraces  UEICEE
REQUESTED. (Jrere ATTACHED COMMENT. Aa
6e
’ pf 69
BALA aS
DATE OF 8.1. H ~Sbe 4 stemaTuae @ Tithe a
CIB INDEX SEARCH: : GIB INDEXING ACTION 72
Sz Trw/13 nee avo CJenance - ovo of
0: REQUESTER DED Dy oy ™
ARRANGE WITH C/CI® FOR BRIEFING 7
SUBJECT HAS BEEN *
ADVISE C/CIB OF OATE BRIEFED
ws APPRO E e
[J see arracumenr « i (deepuenaat
cnrer, ere fao/cre a
Fon 2018a vststgay'eet SECRET ES] fe-to-3e)
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

ke
