# 104-10071-10010

## Page 1

2รท10

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT : :

DATE:

12022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MESSAGES ARE

INSIDERED ROUTINE UNLESS A HIGHER

PRECEDENCE IS INDICATED IN ADDRESS LINE.

DO iNT EXCERO 69 TYPENRITTEN CHARACTERS PER LINE, PICLUDING SPACES.

RESTRICTED HANDLING

GK: RO: sh

CLASSIFTED MESSAGE

CI/Special Operations

5847

18 April 1970

copy

of

SE.R. DO NOT REPROBUCE

RETURN TO CH

TO

(CLASSIFICATION)

SECRET

(DATE AND TIME FILED)

CITE HEADQUARTERS 984

DIRECTOR, FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ATTN: MR. FRED J. GASSINg | 3Z APRiO

FROM: DIRECTOR, CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CACTUS

SUBJECT: AUSTRALIAN VIETNAM MORATORIUM CAMPAIGN

I. WE HAVE BEEN ADVISED BY THE

24

THAT WILLIAM RICHARD LESLIE, AUSTRALIAN DELEGATE TO THE

FIFTH STOCKHOLM CONFERENCE ON VIETNAM HAS ANNOUNCED THAT

THE FOLLOWING FOREIGNERS HAVE BEEN INVITED TO PARTICIPATE

IN THE AUSTRALIAN VIETNAM MORATORIUM CAMPAIGN AND HAVE

EITHER ACCEPTED OR ARE CONSIDERING ACCEPTANCE:

A. PASTOR MARTIN NIEMOLIER (COMMENT: WEST GERMAN

VICE PRESIDENT OF WAR RESISTERS INTERNATIONAL.)

B: MRS. NANCY RUBIN, WIFE OF JERRY RUBIN.

C.

MRS. CORETTA KING

D.

MR. DICK GREGORY.

2. INCIDENTAL TO THIS, LESLIE NOTED THAT THE STRONG

THEME OF AMERICAN DELEGATES TO THE FIFTH STOCKHOLM CONFERENCE

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEMENG OFFICER DA 15'

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

Kaasu

07497

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT : :

DATE:

MESSAGES ARE CONSIDERED ROUTINE UNLESS A HIGHER PRECEDENCE IS INDICATCO IN ADDARES LINE.

NO NOT EXCECO 69 TYPEWRITTEN CHARACTERS PER LINE, INCLUDING SPACES.

RESTRICTED HANDLING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Copy

SECRET

TO

(CLASSIFICATION)

(DATE ANO TIME FILEO)

SECRET

CITE HEADQUARTERS

PAGE THO

WAS THE IDEA OF "CORPORATE COMPLICITY," AND DAYS OF

ACTION PLANNED IN THE UNITED STATES BETWEEN 21 AND 30

APRIL AGAINST COMPANIES WITH MILITARY CONTRACTS. LESLIE

URGED SIMILAR ACTION AGAINST AUSTRALIAN SUBSIDIARY

COMPANIES SUCH AS HONEYWELL COMPUTERS AND QANTAS.

3.

HAS ASKED FOR VERIFICATION

CONCERNING THE INTENTION OF THESE AMERICANS OR OTHERS

TO VISIT AUSTRALIA FOR THE MORATORIUM.

4. PLEASE PROVIDE ANY PERTINENT INFORMATION CON-

CERNING THE ABOVE FOR PASSAGE TO

END OF MESSAGE

1031

OPS (EX) CIRC

C/CI/SO

Richard Ober

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

RELEASING OFFICER

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

---

