‘\t04-40174-40042] 2022
n ‘ RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. K 9
i KENNEDY ASSASSIN) |
JATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

fe > . +H pit \) n ee
DISPATCH —
eee
Chief, Task Force ¥ tna motion GoTo —
a0 7 mY 7 F
veongeattes O38
Behe noes
tai —
—

Chief of Stat‘on, JNWAVE
paketie On, YRO KUCA AN N

“Report.of Independent DRE Infiltration Operation ~~ i
RETR RED RU ERETE :

Action: FYI and files

Ref : A. WAVE 3852 “_ RETy,
B. WAVE 3911 : Backgrouy po ,
}0 Not ReprosonY

c aN

1. According to AMHINT-42, on 20 May 1962 a ut 2200 hours,

local, the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) mounted an

operation independent of JMWAVE support , one. t AMHINT-40 and 10
b)

QUHINT-53 [at “Kawama,: Varadero Beach ,(2315N-6116W)\ The twooman
tein was Taunched successfully and observed as they moved up the beach
and across a field to a lighted dwelling which is an operational
AMILINT safehouse, However, after the team were safchoused and during
Atcovery of the Jaunch dinghy by the parent craft JUANIN 1, 2 12-man
 etatin patrol discovered them and challenged. During the brief fire=
fight that ensued, the JUANIN I crew reported that. two to four militia-
see tvere observed to drop under their fire. (According to reference

men onfirmation of this operation there were no militia casualties,

and the local militia’ post also reported they had d§flicted two to
three casualties "on the escapees.) The JUANIN I suffered no casualties
or-hits, retired. from the beach af speeds up to 30 knots and returned
to their base in Key Marathon without, incident.

Distribution:
3..- C/TFH

roa Sonos
28 May 1962 MAT 3.1 1962

DEPATON SG AND WOMEER

UFGA-4186

eR


+

CONTINUATION OF ; Z
OISPATCH i S-E-C-R-E-T UFGA-4186

morning 21 May.’ On 22 May, a legal traveler,

. hazards to: reassessment and requirements for further training. This,

2. At 1515 hours on 21 May, the DRE offices in Miami received a
commercial cable in prearranged code indicating the team had arrived
gately in Varadero. Later, at about 3620 hours, a telephone ca
indicated that the team were in safehouses ‘in a et

arrived in Miami and reported to DRE offices ng ‘S operation,
(Subject of a following dispatch. )0 is the safehouse owner who
weceived the: team, provided change of clothing, food, shelter,” sent

the cable confirming safe arrival and later transported them to Havana,
Subject did not witness the beach encounter, but heard the. fire-fight
and overheard reports of the encounter during a visit to the Militia
Post the following morning.

3, The most significant operational factor of this mission.is
that the militia post has reported the incident as an ‘escape" and
has not suspected that an infiltration operation has taken place. -
Therefore, no search or raadblocks were set up and it can; be assumed
that ANHINT safehousing in. that area is gtill-intact. It is also im-
portant to note that; although conjecture at this point, apparently
the GOC has net given this clash the propaganda treatment given the
patrol encounter of their ‘CV-28 with the SUSAN. ANN because it. was -
reported as an “escape"™-and therefore any casualties inflicted on escappes
Would not make sympathetic propaganda. Also, there were reportedly no
militia casualties to give this clash propaganda value.

1. This operation was mounted by orders of AMHINT-53 who was
becoming understandably. desperate about DRE internal conditions.
Subject had been scheduled for infiltration three times over the past
three months and cancelled for reasons ranging from mission reception

coming @fter a long history of DRE internal support problems and
obstacles, some of which resulted in costly operational losses and
gompremises, prompted AMHINT-53 to mount. the infiltration at any cost,
Subject's primary mission is to identify and ‘confirm appointments
within clandestine apparat at national and provincial levels. Oper
tional losses through arrest and KIA or execution during past four
months has resulted in almost two complete turnovers in leadership
at national levels, Wis secondary mission is. to organize the National
Reception Committee for materiel supply and infiltration of paramilitar!
jastructors, radio operators and intelligence agents. For this purpose
AMHINT-40, who has operated as National Reception Committee Organizer
for almost two years, formed the team with ANIINT-53, These preparatiohs
within PBRUNEN should be ready by the time their radio operator,
ANHINT-52, completes his training.

5. Some of the pertinent operation details follow:

Be ene JUANIN I is a new, 30-foot, BERTRAM built “Noppy",
recently purchased by the DRE. for their infiltration and supply
operations, _ They have tyained their crew and equipped their vessel
with the idea of offering it to JMWAVE in return for ¥/T communications
and armament support for their missions. Such a support agreement
has been approved in principle by JNWAVE and details are being worked
out by the Maritime Section, JMWAVE,

b. On this operation, the vessel crew was as-follows:

ANHINT-42, Captain
AMHINT-43, Navigator

AMBOUY-2, vegion] intelligence and guide
Bernabe PENA Ballate, gunner

Manvel QUISA, gunner

RR,


Conraation oF | S-E-C-R-E-T '” uFGAe4186-

the militia ran forward and challenged them to stop and return to. the

is aussi ations i

c. Vessel armament was procured by DRE and reported as?

ea SMG, M-3, Cal .45 (800 rds ammo)

ea FAR, Belgian, (200 rds) }
Carbine, M1Al Cal .30 (300 rds) :
ea Rifle, Garand M-] (300 rds)

ea Pistol, Cal .45 (100 rds). -

ea Pistol, 9mm-(100 rds)

Wee
°
Ey

6. According to ANHINT-42 narrative of the mission, the JUANIN I
departed Marathon base at 1430 hours local an 20 May with clear weathe,
and about one foot scas. Proceeding on.a course of 186 degrees at abou!
17 knots cruising, the JUANIN I arrived at a int approximately 20
miles north of their launch point, Fesson-entsh3} at about 2030 hours.
In order to reach their point. at 22 hours, and reduce daylight exposu
in. the sensitive north coast area, they reduced speed and killed time.
Merchant vessels were observed and avoided since it was feared that
JUANIN position and course might be reported. to GOC, - ff

7. Upon arriving at their launch point, beach conditions were as
expected on this day of traditional festivity. The small park known as
“fParque Infantil Inig", was illuminated and.much of the local populace
wre dancing in the pavillion, AMHINT-42 selected a point about 500
yards north of the par and about 500 yards: from their nearest safehousP..
As he brought the JUANIN into’about 200 yards of the beach; the moon
‘was at about a 25 degree elevation and a fringe of pine shaded most
of the deserted beach area where the team would land. The JUANIN is
a ‘dark blue camaflouge color aud was apparently not readily visible
from the beach. The team.boarded the 12-foot, fiberglass dinghy with al
6 hp outboard and accompanied by AMBOUY-2 and Bernabe PENA for protec-
tive cover fire, proceeded to the beach. The landing was smooth and
without’. incident but after the team had made their way up the beach,
through the pines and acress the field to the safehouse, a patrol of
about 12 militia came down, the beach,

8. The launch dinghy had just started from the beach when ‘two of

beach, ANBOUY-2 and PENA opened fire at about 40 yards range, chserv-
ing. that both militia men dropped to the sand, The patrol then opened
up with-one burst of automatic fire as the dinghy got underway to the
parent JUANIN. Meanwhile, the JUANIN came in to about 75 yards to
recover the dinghy and retire from the beach. at top speed. During
recovery, the patrol kept up fire from one automatic weapon which was
ineffective and did not score one hit on personnel or craft.

9. Upon return to base, the JUANIN crew were warned by”
AMHINT-42 of security implications and responsibilities of the
operation, i.e. any leak in Miami could result in the compromise of
ANHINT safe housing in that area as well as the death of the infiltrees|
There was no contact with ODYCKE agencies upon departure or re-entry

PBPRIME.:

END OF DISPATCH

2164,

