# 104-10105-10175

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10105-10175

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

STONET

destrood Penin!

25 May 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJBCT : Gordon NOVEL

1.

FBI teletype.

Cope May Mi cone the a con by attached

memorandum.

Mr. Papich requested information on two points with

permission to make our reply available to the Attorney General:

a) nature and extent of CIA interest in the

Double-chek Corporation.

b) our comments and

observations on the draft

letter purportedly prepared by Gordon NOVEL.

03 3. After consultation with Mr. Jacob Esterline, DC/WH,

Mr. James Powell! SOD, and Mr. Lawrence Houston, OSC, the following

reply was given MI. Papich:

"Double-chek is a "shell" corporation used

in the past by CIA to recruit pilots.

It was

also used as a front for the payment of the

"Birmingham widows".

No individual bearing

the name of Gordon NOVEL had any connection with

Double-chek nor with CIA.

Mr. Lawrence Houston is in constant touch

sith the Deputy Assistant Attorney General,

Nathaniel Cossack, on this matter, and will

tell him about present developments.

MI. Houston comments that anyone could

have prepared the letter but it really does

sound like NOVEL's cock-eyed approach rather

than Garrison.

There is a fair chance that

- !

GNAT

---

## Page 2

4-00000

(

SHET

- 2-

• RETURNTO CA

Background Us: Sil

"Co Not Reprocer

NOVEL might have written it.

This will probably

make another headline for Garrison but we

don't feel it could do the Agency much damage".

4.

On the question of the alleged gunshot fired at NOVEL,

Papich advised that the FBI is not investigating the matter.

It has not been confirmed as yet that anyone did shoot at NoVEl.

J. Roman

DDP/CI/Liaison

Cc:

OGC

- MI. Houston-w/attachment

DC/WH - Mr. Esterline- (has seen)

SOD 05- MI. Powell-attachment previously furnished

CI/R&A- Mr.

Rocca-w/attachment

CI/LSN- FBI log-w/attachment

---

