# 104-10178-10096

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10178-10096

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ARISACE FOR!

5E:9: 505.52

SECRST

Robert Bladergroen:now

sait.

SU JuBe 1907 R-1835

15_ PR

37.

CORA

X

RID COPY

а6cж

кінск

• SÓ.05E8

DIO Pur

837 MIN IN CS PALE Di

.VR

C/UH/COG 5, ClWHG

marberd

та

SOCRET

30 15 4952

CITE DIRECTOR

pSIORITY

JAHAVE

КІРОК ТУРІС

SICLSVE-15

RSE DIRECTOR 15805

1. REQUEST STATION TRACSS ALBERT LARRAIN MAESTRE.

2. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ADVISES HE A FUGITIVE UNDER NARCOTICS

ÍNDICTIENT AND ALLEGEDLY ADJITTED TO AXCLEVE-15 HIS INVOLVEMENT IN

BOSSINGS VITH ROSENTHAL, RSGUEST STAZION COMINT AUCLEVE-15 EVER

RECEIVE SUCH ADMISSION FROM LARRAIN MESTRE.

3.

NO HQS TRACES.

END OF MESSAGE

V. BROS

AC/IVE/COG

FELLASISO OTTICIR

COOSOLNATOS ONICEAS

SECRET

REPRODÚCTION DY OTHER THAN THE LSUING OSSiCE IS PROMiSITED.

AUTNIX ICATING

ORAIGLE

---

## Page 2

1n0rk: Ores @ no.

CLASSIFT TO PILE NO

П-ЛЕГ ТО РІСЕ но.

DESTROY Ds10.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

. SECRET

NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIT!

ACTION

DVANCE COPY

A RID COPY

BEESTE

30 Jm 57 m D2281

02284

SE CRE I 302022Z CITE JWAVE 7953

PRIORITY DIRECTOR

КАРОК TYPIC AMCLEVE/ 15

REFERENCE: A. DIRECTOR 15885

B. DIRECTOR 15915

1. ANSWERS KEYED IO QUESTIONS IN REF A AS FOLLOWS.

A. AMCLEVE/1S DID NOI VOLUNTEER SELF TO LOCAL

FBI. HE DID REPORI TO JWAVE, WHICH IN TURN INFORMED FBI.

FBI THEN APPROACHED AMCLEVE/15 ON THEIR OWN DURING LATE.

JULY 6S AND QUESTIONED HIM ABOUT JULY 65 DEAL.

B&C. JIWAVE INFORMED FBI ON 24 JULY 65

(SEE A

ABOVE)

D. SINCE AMCLEVE/ 15 FAILED TO REPORT OCT 66

TRANSACIION TO UNWAVE UNIIL 9 JUNE 67, FBI NOI NOTIFIED

UNTIL 15 JUNE 67. CAMCLEVE/IS'S EXPLANATION FOR NOT

REPORTING OCT 66 TRANSACTION WAS THAT HE "JUST FORGOT",

E. SEE PARA 2 BELOW.

F. SOURCES WERE LOCATED IN THE MIAMI AREA ONLY.

Go AMCLEVE/IS CLAIMS HE DID NOI RECEIVE ANY MONEY

FOR OCT 66 TRANSACTION: ONLY MONEY AMCLEVE/IS EVER REPORTED

SECRET

---

## Page 3

4-00000

PAGE 2 JINAVE 7953 S É CRET

SECRET

RECEIVING WAS $50O FROM ROSENT HAL DURING JULY 65.

ROSENT HAL HAD INSISTED AMCLEVE/IS TAKE SSOD; TO AVOID ANY

ROSENT HÁL SUSPICION OF ARCLEVE/1S, LATTER WAS INSTRUCTED

BY UMIAVE TO TAKE IME MONEY, AMOLEVE/IS WAS ALLOWED BY

STATION TO KEEP THE 5580.

2. AMCLEVE/IS UNABLE TO RECALL ALL DETAILS OF JULY

65 DEAL:: AMCLEVE/IS CLAIMS HE ONLY PASSED TO DIEGO

(BORGES) TORRES (201-254161) 6 GRENADES WHICH AMCLEVE/1S

STAINED FROM HERMINIO @IAZS SANDALIO (201-203848).

BORGES IN TURN PASSED THEM TO ROSENTHAL. (BORGES AND

NORMAN ROTHMAN WERE ACTING AS AGENTS FOR ROSENT HAL)..

FRANCISCO (RODRIGUEZ) TAMAYO (201-293114) MADE SILENCERS.

RODRIGUEZ AND AMCLEVE/IS JOINTLY DELIVERED THEM TO BORGES.

JIWAVE RECORDS DO NOT SHOW WHERE DIAZ OBTAINED THE GRENADES.

3. AS REPORTED IN REF AMCLEVE/IS IS CURRENTLY WORKING

WITH THE FBI AND FOLLOWING THEIR INSTRUCTIONS RE ROSENT HAL•

4.

MAVE TRADES TARSAL AMOLEVEVTTEE

REDI

LANET

HITO 70

LISTENE DOMINGO CECHEMENDIAT

JoCH

5002920405123H9 99594444, 255 9945

PARA 4

"AMCLEVE/15 REPORTED LARRAIN INFO TO FBI AND TO UMWAVE

ON 27 JUNE 67 STATIO, HOWEVER THAT IT WAS ONE DOMINGO

(CHEMENDIA) ESCALAYTE 1259-29948) WIO HAO SALO THAT"

---

## Page 4

4-00000

PÁGE.

0-83 3 UMNAVE TIS} SECRET

SECRET

OF BOMBINGS AND ROMMAN WAS THE BOSS.

•3. WOULD APPEAR HOS JUSTICE QUERIES BASED ON FBI

REPORTING FROM MIAMI. WOULD IT BE OF ANY HELP IF WE GOT

TOGETHER VITH BUREAU HERE TO RESOLVE IN LOCO CUNEO MOSA

ANY FURTHER QUESTIONS?

SECRET:

BT

*PORTON GARBLED BEiNL SUED

SECRET

NNNN

---

## Page 5

DISPATCH

CLASSIAICATION

8 BC R.&T

WN1C0G

PRUCISSANO AL SIG

MAARCO FOR DETORICO

ПО INDEXI АГРУН

OR Y QUALITID AESA

CAN JUDGE INDEXISS

RAUECT

ACTION RE

Chlot of Station, JAWAVE

ED. REFERENCES

AMCLEYE/15 Contact. 01th Frank "Lefty" ROSENTHAL

Reforence: JHWAVE-7900, 27 June 1967.

Iransulttod under separato cover per reforenco

are coplos of throo JANAVE monoranda to tho FBI datod 21

July and 11 August 1965, and 15 June 1967. Subject:

Procurement of Arma and Munltions by American Group.

Gary L. FLUSTIKOFP

Attachmants - USC

Мотов (3)

Distribution:

8/ - WH/COG

LS SOSS THE 111-2-t

GROSS PATFATECE TO

DESPATCH TREES AS JUSCIE

UFCA- 27803

CLASEUVICATIOR

Dits wie

J..- 300181

JUN 3 0 1B67

1. 20 2400 1067

12-122-3-19311

---

## Page 6

• orra,

R.À

NH/ОЗ/N0

ortman:job.

fat,

7151

2230n0-1067-

CAAC8 SECRIARLAT DISSEMAIAATIOSS

30

cann

MISLAER FORMA

РОГАА СОРІЯ

SECRET

mOEX

C1157707

NO INORX I PLE ON IS MUNNO.

astvAN 10-.

• BARON

201-300985

RID.COPY

Tore and mino diend

SECRAT

29 23 07 Z

1 10: Г JUWAVE

TRiORTYRAPON TYPIC ANCLEVE/15

REF:

JAMAVE 1900 GN 00397)

FOLLOWING QUERIES FROM JUSTICE DEPARINENT HAVE. EMERGED

FROM MEETINGS WITH OFFICE GENERAL COUNSEL. REQUEST REPLIES

SOONEST.

CITE DIRECTOR 1 5 8 05.

-CONTINUED-

ПРИДАНО ОТТЕА

CDOROIMATIMO ORPHIN

SECRSI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHIS SHAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMiDITED.

cor на

7

A. DID ANCLEVE/ 15 VOLUNTEER HIJSELF TO LNERGO OR DID

THEY APPROACH HIM INITIALLY. DATE FIRST ANCLEVE/ 15 CONTACT LNERGO.

B. WHO INFORMED INERGO OF JULY 1965 DEAL. ANCLEVE/15

OR JAWAVE.

C. ON WHAT DATE WAS LNERGO INFORMED.

D. SAME INTO B AND C ABOVE FOR OCTOBER 1966 TRANSACTION.

B. WHAT WERE AMCLEVE/15'S SOURCES FOR ITEMS OR COMPONENTS:

F. WERR THOSE SOURCES WITHIN OR WITHOUT STATE OF

FLORIDA. •

G. JUSTICE HAS INFO TO EFFECT THAT AXCLEVE/15 NADE

PROFIT ON OCTOBER 1966 TRANSACTION WHICH HE ATTEMPTED TURN IN

:

---

## Page 7

4-00000

ольки

BIT

CADLE SACURTANLAY DISSIMIMATION

- PER

POIAL COPIEH

SECRET

от тиям ВО

BRANCH

она то

RID COPY

это хлови

плето.

9ise

Так їж єв Di1а но.

• ve

PAGE TWO

CITE DIRECTOR / 5805

7

7

TO "THE COMPANY" WITHOUT SUCCESS. PLEASE COMMENT.

2. ALSO PLEASE ELABORATE ON STATEMENT PARA 2 REF THAT PER

JIVAVE INSTRUCTIONS ANCLEVE/15 COOPERATED WITH BORGES AND

ROSENTHAL BY ACTING AS INTERMEDIANY IN PASSING SILENCERS AND

GERNADES. "

3. JUSTICE HAS SUGGESTED POSSIBILITY USE ANCLEVE/15 TO ASSIST

ROSENTHAL OBTAIN ADDITIONAL MATERIAL AS BASIS FOR ARREST OF

ROSENTHAL FOR HAVING POSSESSION OR SUCH MATERIALS. APPRECIATE

JAWAVE COMMENTS.

END OF MESSAGE

OGC HI. Bladergroon (draft)

C/WH/COG/CICS Mr. Mahoney (drait)

V.. Broo

ASIRASINO ODONTAN

с000омeчn0 orer149.

SECRET

+------

AC/#H/COC

12,00T

RIPIODUCIION Di

•ILA TIAN ¡ME ISILING OFFICE IS P. MANTIO.

com.

---

## Page 8

A 07° 201-25 LIARIO MESSAGe

SECRET

NOTIPIGO

CODIES

AITROPUTTION PROMIBITRO

DIWD COPY

THRO

TEA CUPY

UNIT

O... Drum Dudeske

AT TAED

Pg

Dasi

ABSTRACT

Time

15÷5÷-

SECREI ZOISZ CI

LE DAVAVE 1900

PRIORLEY DIRECTOR

LIDE

8 Jun 67 # 00 397

'IYPIC ANCLEAVE/ 1S

REF DIRECTOR 14671

1o AMCLEVELIS CURRENTLY COOPERAT ING VIIM LOCAL

FBI IN INVESTIGATION OF FRANX "LEFTY ROSENT HAL.

2. ANCLEVELIS INITIALLY BECAME INVOLVED WITH

RECORDS GELICES STAUP

The follozira not:on .13

ROSENIHAL IN JULY 6S UHEN DIEGO EMILIANO (BORE Sauthor!.nI:

TORRES (281-284161) INTRODUCED HIM TO ROSENTHAL AND

NORMAN ROIMMAN. (BORGES WAS AGENT FOR ROSEN HAL

R.0. ;

IN PURCHASE OF VEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES). PER UMWAVE

i learni

IN STRUCT IONS AMCLEVE/ IS COOPERATED WITH BORGES AND

coordinato

18 appropriato.

ROSENIHAL BY ACTING AS INTERMEDIARY IN PASSING

SILENCERS AND GRANADES FROM HERMINIO (DIAZ)

SANDAL LO 12B:-2RSA40, AND FRANCISCO IRODRIGUES,

AN G

ABSTRICE E

TAMAYO (201-293114) TO BORGES WHO IN

TURN

PA SSE"

THE MATERIAL TO ROSENTHAL.

SO LOCAL FBI WAS NOTIFIED AT THE LIME PUT

AFTER ASQUI ONE WEEK JMDAVE INSIRUCIED AMCIEVE1:5

TO VITHDRAW HAVING DISCOVERED THAT GROWO WITH WHICH •

101-254161

---

## Page 9

14-00000

•PAGE 2 JAVAVE 7908

and .

SECRET

HE WAS IN CONTACT WAS COMPOSED OF GANGSTER ELEMENTS.

À. FROI JULY ES TO CIRCA OUT 66 AMCLEVE/15 NOI

INVOLVED VITH ROSENTHAL ALTHOUGH AT VARIOUS I IMES

ROSENTHAL CALLED AMCLEVE/IS AND ASKED HIS HELP

OBTAIN VEAPOS AND EXFLOSIVES WHICH AMCLEVE/ 15

REFUSED. AROUND OCT 66 ROSENT HAL CONTACTED AMCLEVE/ 15

AT LAITERS RESIDENCE AND IHREATENED HIM BE CAUSE

EQUIPMENT SUPPLIED BY BORGES TO ROSENTHAL WAS FAULTY.

AMCLEVE/15 THEN MADE AND GAVE ROSENTHAL 128 PENCILS

AND 58 FUSE DEVICES WHICH SEEMED TO SATISFY ROSENT HAL.

S. AMCLEVE/1S DID NOI REPORI PARA FOUR, ABOVE TO

MWAVE UNTIL 9 JUNE 67 AFTER ROSENTHAL HAD AGAIN

CONTACTED HIN ON 6 JUNE 57, THREATENED HIM AND ASKED

HIM FOR MORE EQUIPMENT. LOCAL FBI WAS ADVISED BY

JAWAVE ON 15 JUNE 67 OF AMCLEVE/ 15 ROSENT HAL CONTACTS

OF OGI 66 AND 6 JUNE 67.

6. AS REPORTED IN PARA 3 OF REF AMCLEVE/ 15

CURRENTLY TRYING TO SUPPLY ROSENTHAL UNDER INSTRUCTIONS

LOCAL FBI. FBI HAS PROMISED MAXIMUM SECURITY AND

---

## Page 10

4-00000

PAGE J JUAVE DRA SECRET

PROTECI ION FOR ANGLEVE/IS, FBI HAS NOT NOTIFIED LOCAL

POLICE DUE POSSIBILITY POLICE PENETRATED BY GANESTER

ELERENT.

%. ANCLEVErIS CLAIMS NONE OF MATERIAL PREVIOUSLY

SUPPLIED ROSENT FAL VAS OF VOFACI ORIGIR, ME ALSO CLAIRS NE

HEVER SUPFLIED ROSENT HAL VIIM C-A EXPLOSIVES.

8. NO ADDITICHAL JAWAVE INFO ROSENIHAL AND

ROTHMAN. NO OPS INTEREST BORGES RODRIGUEZ. DIAZ

DECEASED.

9.:: POUCHING MUS COPIES OF JAÑAVE MEMOS IC FBI

UFGA-27888.

SECRET

201-25÷16!

250e 67

---

## Page 11

4-00000

«

--

SIC AT

28 June 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Luda Clementa POSADA-Carriles

REFERENCES: 2. Memo for Rocord, 26 June 1967, by LRH,

samo subjoct

•. Williamson/Henso Telephone Conversation

28 June 1967

1. In my meeting with the Department of Justice today, 1

confirmed that POSADA-Carriles was our man. I outlined the pro-

liminary information we had developed on the transactiona between

him and one Lefty Rosenthal.

2. Justice was advised that our information discloaed that

POSADA-Carriles had passed stlencers and grenades, to Rosenthal

during July 1965, and that in October 1966 he had furnished pencils

and fuses. I also stated that it was our understanding that POSADA-

Carriles was in contact with FDI/Mlami and that it had been adviaed

of these dealings. Juitice was told that the items involved were not

of Agency origin. It was emphasized, however, that this was our

preliminary conclusion and that we would undertake to verify it.

3. Justice acknowledged that FBI reporting disclosed

POSADA-Carriles as lts contact but apparoutly the details are some -

what vague. To make a lederal case against Roderthal because of his

suspected Involvement in the bombings, is will be necessary to show

that the iteme used were obtained through interstate commerce. A

preliminary reading suggests prosecution under Title i8 Section 337.

Out of concern for the allegation of entrapient, Juntice asked that

even

elvira:

E

---

## Page 12

14-00000

ma supply assurera to the following: (a) did POSADA-CarTlOa

volunteer blesalt so the FBI or did it approsch him initially:

- (0) who intoraad ibe FBl of the July 1965 doal - tho Agency or

¡POSADA-Cartilei; (e) 00 what date was thia information givan:

fd) dimilarly as regarde tho October 1966 transacilos, the dato

the information furnished and by whom; (e) what were POSADA-

Capriles courced for the isema or their componenta; (f) were

those: soürces within or without the State of Florida? And inclo

dentally were to awaro that supposedly POSADA-Carrilos realiser

a "profit" for furalähing the October 1966 iseme and that he tolod

without succeas to turn it into tha "company"? While I agreed to

undertake to astain the information rnquested, I suggosted that

much of it mig's be readily avallable from the FBI. Justice cos-

coded this and lasenda to have further discussions with is.

B. Daring the couras of the meeting the interesting

hypotheria was suggedred to the effect that POSADA-Cartiles

might have brea "moonlighting" for Rosenthal, and only when ho

began to feel lie pressure did he start reporting to the Agency and

5. Uoder etriclly controlled conditions with POSADA-

Carriles acting as a conduis, Justice is considering the possibility

of assloting Rosenthal to obtain his needed items, whereupon he

will be arrested immediately for possession. I told them while we

might be williag to have POSADA-Cartiles so used we were under-

standably concerood over the adverse comment thai our employso'8

involvemens could generato.

6. Oe a raatter that may be related: one Alhert LARRAIN

Nisestro la alleged to have admitted to POSADA-Carrilos that he has

been involved in the bomblage with Rosenthal and to have said more

axplosives were seodoi. LARiAIN Maestre is a luzitive under a

•sarcotics endietent having formerly resided at 153 East 57th Struet,

New York, New York. Do we have any information on this person?

• .

ROBERT J. BLADERGROEN

Assistant Goneral Counsel

OGC:RJB: mej .

Distribution:

Original - Subject

1 - Sigser

1 - Chrozo

---

## Page 13

did:

INSON NOTES ON

25 JOE TELOTON N. MENZE

AMCLEVE

15 currently cooperaing FRI

Became Involed R July 65

On station listructions cooporated ad intermediary in passing stuff--

silencers and grenades--at that FBI inforned

Instructed to withdraw

Unti) Oct 66 - was threatened - asked to nake or obtain

At this potst he nade certain things 150 pencile. Did not tell

station. until fairly recently

Then put in touch with LNERGO & June told 9 June told FBI 15 June

$350.00

FBI man called up north

15 wants their assistance "to disappear"

Probably not losing a great deal

:

207690

• a . ... . ..

...

---

## Page 14

14-00000

MESAFT

28 June 1967

NOTE FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Tolophono Convoreatiou : Williaraoi/Henzo, 1013 hourt.

- 23 JuRe 1967

1. Stasion roply dens 1640 houre 27 June (IMWAVE 7900).

2. AMCLEVE/1S currently on Station roles at $350 per moath.

Ho has boon cooporating with FBI.

• 3..

During July 1965, 13 Introduced to Rosenthal by thirl party.

On Station Instructiona ho cooperated with Rosenthal acting an Insax.

modlary la passing to him silencoro and grenades. FBI informad.

4. In accordance with Station Inatructlons, 15 broke all

contact Wita Rodenthal.

3. On October 1966, 15 recontacted by Rosenthal. Rosenthal

demanded ho make or obtain additional items threatening him with bodily

harm and aloo complaining previous sterna faulty, Whoreupon 15

furnishod Rosenthal 150 pencile and somo fuses, Station only recently

aduleed of this transaction and 15 put la contact with FBI.

6. Itama furniahod July 1965 and October 1966 transactiona

not Agoncy origlo.

7. On 6 Juno, 19 agala contactod by Rosenthal.

8. On 9 Juno, 19 reportod Rosonthal contact to Station.

9.

On 19 June, Station adviood FBI.

---?

28 Dur

---

## Page 15

10, 19 manta drasion andlorenco in dolag a dioappearing ace.

11s 158a 181 conteet pon de Washlagion for diecussiona so

Able case,

12.

Ro prop

¡ 3 DIR 18671, Henso'a inraediato soscilos

3 much but would wast to chock ii further.

13RO2a1.

ROBERT J, BLADERÖROE.

Aastatant Gosasit Course

---

## Page 16

14-00000

sira

Sober't Ortmap: dow

wHl/COG/NO

85T.

DRIE.

7151/1218

26 Juno 1967

GADLE NSCSUTARLAR OISSISAIMATTON

come

APSIACE FORM

PUIAL COPIN

SECRET

22

HOS

810

NO MORE

RID COPY

8168

ADR,

AROP

SES'ET

27 00

00 2

PILS IN CA ONE 1O.

MRS

PESEC -

e/WHie, c/e, e/FIZ C/ELINT.

fele

14671

CITE DIRECTOR

10 TRIORITY JAMAVE

7:

RIBAT ANCLSVE-15

IMMEDIATE HANDLING

1.

DEPARTIENT JUSTICE INVESTIGATING ONE LEFTY ROSENTIAL BELIEVED

TIED IN WITH MIANI CRIME FIGURES AND INVOLVED IN SEVEN RECENT BOABINGS

MIAMI ARBA.

2.

ROSENTHAL ALLEGEDLY APPROACHED U.S. CITIZEN NORMAN ROTHMAN IN

DOMREP NO PUT HIM IN TOUCH AMCLEVE-15 WHOM ROSENTILA: KNOWS TO BE

AFFILIATED NOFACT. ROSENTHAL CLAIMS AMCLEVE-15 SUPPLIED HIN WITH CAPS

PRIMERS AND C-A EXPLOSIVES ALSO CLAIMS OFFERED TO DISCUSS BACKGROUND

BOMBINGS, WHO INVOLVED, AND WHY, WITH ANCLEVE-15 BUT LATTER INDICATED NO

INTEREST.

3. ROSENTHAL REPORTEDLY ASKING AMCLEVE-15 TO SUPPLY 240 POUNDS

C-4 WITH CAPS AND PRIMERS BY 1 JULY 67.

4. LOCAL POLICE INVESTIGATING SEVEN BOMBINGS BUT NOT AWARE

FOREGOING DETAILS RELATIVE AMCLEVE-15.

5. APPRECIATE PRIORITY COMENTS INCLUDING CUISINT ANY POSSIBILITY

MATERIAL GIVEN ROSENTHAL, COULD BE HOFACI ORIGIN.

RILIANINO OFPICER

COORIMATINO CINCIN

SECRET

Rests do dese

REPAODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROHIBITIO.

UTMPNTICATIN

ЯРКІ

---

## Page 17

01r00

1 кт.

CABIR BACRETARIAT DUSLINUMATHON

PER.

CA: 1RANA 101954..

TOIAL COPITS

SECRET

AOUTING AMO/OR KNITIALS.

RID COPY

1нDIх ] 019110R

ASIVeN 10__

• ко (мовк

07 1118 IN 68 Me NO.

P!..

folitel

Preteronio rembar

PAGE TWO.

CITE DIRECTOR /4GJ1:

Г."

6.

PREFER NO DISCUSSION WITH LOCAL LVERGO AT THIS TINS.

7.

NO IDENTIFIABLE HQS TRACES ROSENTHAL. NUMEROUS INERGO REPORTS

CITE ROTHMAN FOR GAMBLING, GUN RUNNING AND OTHER SHADY ACTIVITIES IN

U,S.; CUBA AND MEXICO INCLUDING EFFORTS ESTABLISH ANTI-CASTRO BASE

-: ::

IN YUCATAN.

END OF MESSAGE

mtn filis

• BROE

C/IHD

ПРАЗЛИНО ОТРИСЬО

OGC (His. Blauorgroon in draft).

SECRET

REPRODUCTION AT OTHER THAN THE ISSUNO OFFICE IS PHONIITEO.

Sing Mile lion

AC/H/COG

AUTHIMTICATING

соте на

---

## Page 18

14-0000

26 Jano 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT, Lula Clamosto PORADA-Car8lica

1. Tho Departmons of Juntles has bees Inventigating

oa LofT Rosenthal whom thay baltoro to bo lad la with key

mombure of organizad esimo la tha Mlant siros and sho also

Rhey ballere has boos lavalrod la soves rocoat bomblago la

8ha Mlara aras, AccOrdias so tha lalormatios tha Depestrnsi

bao gotles do las, Rodenthal meras to a Unlled Scaleo sillson

Rosenthal tas pus la touch milk Luis Clemento Potada-Carrlies,

Rosentbal undoratasdo tat Posada-Cartlles la attached

le ClA and elalma lhas Posada -Careles supplied him mles espo,

primare and C-d exploalros.

Roganthal la reporsed so havo

offorod to salt to Posada-Caprules about the baskground of tho

horablega and who was Invalved and ahy, bur Posads-Carpiles

cald do bed no latercas la tha backgroud.

Roponchel la separrod to be astlag Polada, Carrllea

8a supply B1O pounda of C-d explosivas with espa and primaro

by saturday and bas told Posada-Carillas that luenty moro

borablaza as0 echoduled. To local palleo aro lavestigagiog

she sores bomblega phlea tavo rahos place and do sor knom uhla

othor background marasial.

justled unuld nosy much liko lo bava Rosesthal

prosaculad and accordingly could llka so baro the espioalrao.

dalinosed lo Roscalhal bus to dave 19% ol ll faulty and savo the

stato proposuta hina ds tha poddosalon as la 156 al valla

esplosives.

Tha Juatico Dapartmerl boo a sepere from to

---

## Page 19

4-00000

Burosu'o Serurity Susú repartag la the Buzeal'a Orgailsed

Crima Dirlaton madra atares isas Forada-Carrllos la a OJA

LAWRENCE R. HOUSTON

Ganeral Coussel.

---

## Page 20

4-00000

Luis Percede CaLieu

----------+--97799 1-1=

----

---

## Page 21

14-00000

2101109

Endes,

negatal.

•spiere datarion

¿ais

222021.715103

ChasE 01

Si.i10?,

Forianca 0:

XIKCET In Cubaa Goveramon:

47

During JiT debrie?155

1-1032t102

o? dd april

the

above

1957, 13IVE3-1 provided

subject:

: li

01. 11a5ch

Governont,

lacludine

¿so solo or WINcas la the Cusan

less inportaat than

it bad been

Lordon,

those

tio jears earlier.

to jears,

lilcas lost

substan

juactiors

and operatiay eleseats.

sortloa of its

Cubana de deadon made 125 cüa

Eug

2r.1n7

early

in 1900,

the

issisianio 0d

purchases abroad without

forderly

the MENDaY Consercial Ollicos.

an operating elesea: o!

19E8

aad its functioss

tacai, was abolished late

enterprise called storest casana del

were taken ovar by an indepeadeat

• 1u cavaaa.

In spill

1501g

Jabaco with beadquarters

Canaddina

Instituto

5as scheduled to be acolished and

an operating elezent

dol Libro Hits

replaced by

redquarters la Haverai

In Jaauary

studjiag the fossibillty of

tO

the Sigar. Liaistry.

SOURCE COSENT:

This tread of evenis appears to ladicato.

that 1a.

the future

be lurtber reduced

WINCas, Lunciloss will,

elinisaied cobblerely.

nad possibly even

9582370):

NIÚ

- CaLer, StR Division are plailui

:.js

24:72.94:0-10

1X -3:2

26 Ap: €7

UFG:-27÷1S

6-201-7-47424

-sad

SECRET

18-810-120 - 31

PTER L PERSONS

---

## Page 22

14-00001

ici

Sociat

..

1000 anarcool:

s0a: 1101"

t!.:

-.:e

did parchinar:

1.0u10?s

1900

Visious ACt

london

1!a.

:t.9

Co:

to

2a0lc

Chris

hoa

Pausal

chanderi

t.:)

4:70

Fran5!C=o

!..

Lordsa

Cs.

cat Roseaso

jai fini

But secueston

Pin.

Cat 157, 2 2885103

weived in

construcilos eguspaent.

This alssion was headed by scrassdo

Bis

Herrandia.

13.

The

cha1n

Co..

cronts which

horaled tho raduct10a 10

1=p05t2÷09

3551

thosE

c1a1

0:!:00.12

London boris

+103

=e.

10÷d

lovel

of co-pescaco 15aa

-aaaaales.

parsons recenaly

assigaed

0P11C0

and

1n

London

who

had

only six 05

sevea

Cxpor1c..co. 1a.10rj1ga

trade

JORTS

of

or

CUBIneSS

are

Orlario.

$70:270

2u10.

represeniative

of

C:3:2

espo,

•esantat

"EDICUBA,

aed

Rusa

and PeRiliPOST:

P2?

arently was that he tag a =c=ber of

tro

Coriaunist

south

05g2r.12

3nd

the qualifications of

10:270 nad Glal apparontly sero that they were Cos unist Party

seabors.

---

## Page 23

14-00000

---

## Page 24

13 POLING

Nº312122:10

+N8N105971

1=0:0

251.

Nº*'° 19 193MP20

501-

CESCTRFUTT

.=..=...

rom

---

## Page 25

14-00000

eo? totledt le

••

---

## Page 26

14-00000

---

## Page 27

14-00000

---

## Page 28

4-00000

---

## Page 29

B83.

• 1:08.2810)

":

sti, yu

14-00000

---

## Page 30

14-00000

...

---

## Page 31

¡s os essas

...

-00000

---

## Page 32

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 33

14-00000

---

## Page 34

0000

---

## Page 35

....

14-0000

---

