1704-10332-10078}

4

TRA MINOR AT cect camad cesarterar sn

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

December 3, 1993
Memorandum for the Director,
Center for Studies in Intelligence,
Central Intelligence Agency
Attn: Mr. Join Pereira
FAX: 703-243-8343

Subject: CIA Files on Lee Harvey Oswald

This is to acknowledge my telecon yesterday with Dave Gries and with John
Pereira re issue of whether Oswald was ever debriefed by the Agency, and to
respond to John's request for documents which may having bearing 61 this
issue. =
First, a point of order. It is my belief and the belief of the Agency personnel
with whom I‘have discussed this matter, that your files should not contain the
infamous “debrief.” It strains credibility that the Agency would purposely
persist in saying there was no debrief when in fact it had a copy of it
somewhere in its extensive — if sometimes sloppy -- records system. It
would have been found by 1993. The issue is not whether you have it now;
rather it is whether it occurred in the past and was destroyed.

We can all talk, theorize and argue over what it might mean later. For now
the task at hand is simply to take all necessary steps to find out. I urge
extreme caution in stating flatly that there was no debrief until such steps
have been thoroughly exhausted. I was surprised to find out after the
FRONTLINE documentary aired, for example, that there will be some new
pieces on this subject in the not too distant future.

T attach a copy of CIA document number 435-173A, attachment, memo
dated 25 November 1963, by a "T.B.C.", whom I believe might be one Mr.
Tom Comier, possibly a former head of SR6 Branch, Soviet Russia Division,
at the time Lee Harvey Oswald retumed to the US in the Summer of 1962.
T.B.C. stated he discussed the laying on of interviews with Oswald, eithcr
while he was en route or after his arrival. Because T.B.C. made a
typographical error when he typed "1960" instead of "1962", the LISCA
foolishly dismissed the veracity of this entire document.

Be

U


aw

Tattach a copy of CIA document number 287-690, memo for record, dated
3 December 1963, by Mr. Birch D. O'Neal, Chief, CI/SIG, Subject: Lee
Harvey Oswald. O'Neal's memo is about polygraphing Alvarado, but it is the
reverse handwriting in the upper right hand corner that is pertinent to thé’
issue at hand. ‘That handwriting appears to be: "Audy Anderson OO on
Oswald."

I refer you to Mr. Donald Deneselya, a CIA employee in the Contacts
Division in 1962, who told the HSCA in 1978 that he read Anderson's debriof
and described its contents to his HSCA interlocutors. He will tell you today
what he has been saying for 30 years. Don Deneselya does not have a book
and shuns any publicity -- it took FRONTLINE almost a year to get him to
agree to an interview on the record. He says what he says not for any .’
personal gain because there is none, there is only disrepute. He says it®
because he remembers reading the debrief.

If I were you, I would first have a long talk with Don. Then I would find all
surviving members of CD/OO/Support Branch. It did not take us long to
figure out that this branch interfaced with the ficld offices of the Contacts
Division. While this will not tum up a piece of paper, I think you will find
some answers there.

As an aside: a Mr. Roe F. Anderson was listed in the CIRA obit this summer,
and his son Richard called me after the FRONTLINE documentary aired, and
confirmed his father, a Navy officer, had worked for the CIA. I doubt if this
is our Anderson, but you might check all the same. I would appreciate a note
stating what you find out.

Sincerely,

Dr. John M. Newman
1019 Summer Hill Drive, Odenton MD, 21113
FAX (home): 410-672-7251; (H) 301-621-0576; (W) 410-859-6131


Od

‘interest in Oswald's own thectlarea in the U SSR, that we showed operational,

REPRODUCED AT THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES i

r ost

‘.

2S November 1963.

= com

SUBJECT: Mr, Lee Harvey Oswald APPROVED FOR 1992

— an CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

1. It makos Little difference now, but MMBMBEEMRad st one time an: a
OI interest in Oswald. As soon as I had heard OswalS’s name, I recalled 2
that as Chief of the 6 Branch I had discussed -- sometime in Summer.1960 ~~ Ge -
with the then Chiof and Deputy Chief of ‘the 6 Research Section the laydng &
on of interview(s) chrough Lor other suitable channels, At the e
moment I don't recall if this was discussed while Oswald and ‘his family aie
were en route to our country of if it was after their arrival ~

if 3
ey - :
2. I\cemembor that Oswald's unusual behavior tn the USSR had. struck

me from the moment I had read the first Stcte dispatch on him, and I t

told my subordinates something amounting to "Don't push too hard to get

the information we need, because this individual looks odd." | We were

particularly interested in the OF Oswald might provide on th# Minsk

factory in which ho had been employed, on‘ certain sections of the city i

itself, and of course we sought the usual BI that might help develop |
!
!

target personality dossiers. ‘ey

3. I was phasing into ay MEE =< stercene, a ::
the time, Thus, I would have loft our country shortly after Oswald's arfival.
I do not know what action developed thereafter, :

wey

Addendum ae ”

4, As an afterthought, I recall also that at the time I wae becoming
increasingly intorested in watching develop a pattern that we hadjdiscovered
in the course of our bio end research work in 6: the number of Soviet

woman marrying foreigners, being permitted to leave the USSR, then eventually
divorcing their spouses and settling down abroad without returning “home''.
The ees ease was among the first of these, and we eventually turned *
up somothing like two dozen sinilar cases. Wo established links between
somo of these women and the KGB. RRR became interested in the developin
trond wo had come across, It was partly out of curiosity to learn if *
Oswald's wife would actually accompany him to our country, partly out of

intelligence interest in the/flarvey story.

a T.B.C.

. ’

iasdisdadcoadd guid ecasa Oi onatsg Ad ougfaisaibanzs uariaseaaen”” Seid eoapaoagel

WHSr OT S66T ca‘sad SPESTELTAL = “ON SNOH “HLMOL NGMIMBN 2 1024


13-00000

ieee REFRUDUGED AL ANE WALAUNAL AKRUMLVED ¢ -

3 December 1963

Qa
TEREAE AS

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSWALD oF ALVARADO

Be eat oO EE Reguest> eogey? cae
|
{
i

“

At 2010 hours on 3 December, Mr. Papich of the FBI sdyised that the
Bureau had received a cable last night from the Legal Attathe in

Mexico City vho 4s in toueh with our representative there. ratatea :
that or representative had been int vy ofthe Sexi
Nicaraguan Intelligence Service that¥ ALVARADO told him, that

he xecan’ his original story vecdude of fear of physical, harm; that
Alvarado/was being deported from Mexico to Mi. on 4 December 1963\
and would be ac ry ‘@saured our Yrepre-~ -
sentative that Alvarado would be available for interview in

Nicaragua if the United States desired.

Mr. Papich stated that the Bureau would like to have him subjected
to a polygraph examination by this Agency and would appreciate receiving
word &s scon aa possible as to whether ve wil] handle the matter since
if we will not handle it the FEI will have to determine vinat other steps

y might be taken to see that this is done. I advised Mx. Papich that I
would check into tha matter, that I did not knov viethor wa bed avallablu
at this time a polygraph operator who could properly handle this mattor
but in any vent EF vould let him mow whether this can be done.

-. ‘
$e FOIA Rnfew sn ty We wos
. Chief, CI/sIG

E__sever ox py 2/409

ROPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992
“AT RECORD COPY CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROCHA

g
&

3B pec63
i 201-7 84943

- . SL Ue KML IN
Pad WPT Seer fa‘9eq Glade eta cise ato eet Koauae tage


ra tf
Gf

enh

Pon.
aa
ae
aN
-


SECRET / HRG INTERNAL USE ONLY
(working notes - hold in pending file)

Newman phone call to John P. 21/4/1995

Book ready to go to press (Oswald and CIA)

Wanted to give us a “heads up”; not a request to HRG for any
type of action

Will be naming Leon (Leo) Setwaev as source on KGB and
Oswall -- “Setwaev” is a “clandestine” source.

Also will be including the (GI-5 (Abreu) story in his book;

™ considers him a “key” player and important to the story of

Oswald in Mexico City. Has ask the Board to broker a
meeting with CIA to help him esi identify.

Later in the day Marwell (ARRB) call John P. re a phone call
from Newman.

per Marwell:

Newman seem to think that the “Setwaev” name will cause
waves

Concern about identifying (LI-93 in book -- wants CIA's
help in hiding identity; may be feeling some “guilt” s

Marwell plans to tell him that it is not an appropriate role
for the ARRB

HRG Actions:
John P briefed Ellie (DO review team)

Bob E (OGC) altered 4/24/95
No other action planned


. SECRET

Chief, SR. RYF ioe
Chief, HF
Chief of Station, Paris ae

GPFLOOR + Lee Harvey OSWALD
For information

o pgtell ont 2
For the record we forward herewith a memorandum by’Thowas B. CASASIN 7
in which he gives his recollections of SR interest in Subject following 7 54205
Subject's return to the United States from the USSR, —<

<a TOM

3

\ 2 u

ROBERT G. LAMPRELL |

Encl.

Distribution . :
LT SR wench — 9G U.S.
3 - NE

sumer nuter YDS 3A

for FOIA Review on py gis

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
CONDUCTED ON AYL-19
ao

12 vee 196s DEC § é 1969

| -
Ne Bera SBIR
~f .

: SECRET RYBAT 301-389 ays.



i
i
1

25 November 1963
SUBJECT: Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald
ro 3 Walter P, HALTIGAN

1. It makes little difference now, but REDWOOD had at one time an
OI interest in Oswald. As soon as I had heard OswalB's name, I recalled
that as Chief of the 6 Branch I had discussed -- sometime in Summer 1960 --
with the then Chief and Deputy Chief of the 6 Research Section the layéng
on of interview(s) through KUJUMP or other suitable channels. At the
moment I don't recall if this was discussed while Oswald and his family
were en route to our country of if it was after their arrival.

2. %I+remember that Oswald's unusual behavior in the USSR had struck
me from the moment I had read the first ODACID dispatch on him, and I
told my subordinates something amounting to "Don't push too had to get
the information we need, because this individual looks odd."j We were
particularly interested in the OI Oswald might provide on th¢' Minsk
factory in which he had been employed, on certain sections of the city
itself, and of course we sought the usual BI that might help develop
target personality dossiers.

3. I was phasing into my LPOVER)cover assignment, and out of KUDOVE, at
the time. Thus, I would have left our country shortly after Oswald's artival.
I do not know what action developed thereafter,

r Thomas B, CASASIN
Addendum

4, As an afterthought, I recall also that at the time I was becoming
increasingly interested in watching develop a pattern that we had discovered
in the course of our bio and research work in 6: the number of Soviet
women marrying foreigners, being permitted to leave the USSR, then eventually
divorcing their spouses and settling down abroad without returning "home".
The AEOCEAN 3 case was among the first of these, and we eventually turned
up something like two dozen similar cases. We established links between
some of these women and the KGB, KUDESK became interested in the developing
trend we had come across, It was partly out of curiosity to learn if
Oswald's wife would actually accompany him to our country, partly out of
interest in Oswald's own theclarve}. in the U SSR, that we showed operational
intelligence interest in the/flarvey story.

?

7 T.B.C.
‘
