[104-10168-10002) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J
F - = . =

SECRET

13 May 1957
MOEA PORT Ke. Goes,
sact 1 Suggoated Guesticca far Leo Chern

1. I gave Btu Soving et bie request ou Monflay the lito, efter
our mating vith the Lirector, sy suggewtions for qoeaticns to be
ancy co tra pane) dlecuseios Corday toe i 1 feel sary >e vill
Your tsee on to cteroe, em ft teva an OD og Group meeting in
ehoct tex minutes. i acid he wazted to coustar-attsek, s0 I eug-
geoted tis qestions full inte four categories

a. Invnetcne of other countries with may Coben rationale
fe. g., resem) sad ‘its suzgort to Cauam‘st invasion elemets (¢-g-,
7 saree! + sfrect oz proftseed “nomisterres-

ip. Is TX evare thet Caramist allegiance
is tc Meecov, icy Rey FrPles statement that t1 war Commmists
Weal olde vith fareia against treet)? asd dwn tt cousiser Soviet
yor rotl TP it dees, aot 1t ctatts Moscow coctral of
fa Cee (cite resect (ten Come visit), then fe it im
favor af @ Moscow tictatorakip, ant sgainst dictatorship cooly where
It ceprietocply exits 16?

c. Bros Ltactions. 1s it reattned thet ander Castro's
eriverta of no elactices whale there in cassployerci a iliits7scy,
ix no eontey (act evra toe U, 5.) vould ever beve ted free elections?
: Alan pte off frea elections, sad that 18
Wig 1¢ faa Cletatorship? Wiet Lint of goverment does. be think,
Cube vill hewe astil the date for free elections is eanmment? ©

a. Teecuttors, If a revolotiomry mruntnt overthrew 25
Joly tonerros, Vord $50 executions of £6 daly people be justified?

2. T briefed iim on many <ther espeetst fart thet dias Roca
{Cuta) eof Late Corbalen (Catle} bad roma.out im support cf 26 July
Gime the 3 Hey tromdcasts Reve! uctca a Prirting of his broateast, os
contres? to genere) lack of freecca of press; Sevolseton attack oa
Blas 2oca, #9 coutras: to gearal aid to commniste) Lack of Commmist
sappart fo ayetl 1°58, a6 Juiy strike wateh might bare been critical;
26 ccly contemetion of Comanists in Augest 1953; Maazel Kore Yalrerte
(referret to in breedcast) effect on Castre; Drew Pearsce colam om
GOO Wewietee of iumims invasion; no botter altermtives to Castro 7st

¥



armrest) possibility cf Castro holéing prompt frea elections for
Quel mec, staying ant eni remieceg “here”, a¢ possible ealation
for Cam,

3. St5n Crogum sald thst as of 1630 yesterday (Yursiay 12 thy)
the peel vorLt be Cutrne, Tiatgo, Lactucs (aoststans to Cie
Miavester to US), Furter, vith “ward axith eg madaretor. Bovine
Will sot be on Wecmare COS éoettad he is o reporter ent therefors -'°
ehoulé eet ¢eiste Me ova resort.

’

03

[- oe x. | i

02
Wares, ESenesntie fons (13 Sey 1955)

Distrtbrtiont
Orig &1 - 108
le aa
Lei
1 - rfoiferipiess
1 - &E/Sne



eRe AR RRR TP IME AE A RE

+. * SECRET

Boasiils Soeationn

.

You vil) resa2l tat. ¢ Oudan camamist delegate to a nesting
is Museou inet Semcory eald tims bis party took an ective part
end rave piidaice te the 2th ef July revolutions tater dra
Yerineilo, vio J Saliere ie tte bead of the Coma Cowmiat Furty,
srhumeed in tersav that Soviet exyport wes “lectaive? to the
py ctions 7

S gestions pid the Comunist Party play e eignifieast pert
fs the anti-Zatista novencat in Cobe?

erected that a cermcet, Br, intento Kise disper,

na pester of the commission viteh ts revisiar the history tore
oka to be nec in the Ouier public and private schouls. Reco
riting the coommmict skill ia revriting histcry boos vo eect the
shanding neers cf whe party lise I vould like to asks

tet

Fp Sanatics De ro: baltére Unt Dre Teles is qualified to
Cesteimate te the ieproved accuracy 2 objectivity
of Catan Mistery boots?

go Soeatica: Do you balicve that Cubes concuziste give their
first loyelty to thelr cocctry ratter than to
the obiectires ef the intarmticnal cecrmmiat
prieent?

| Men Dr. Castre sreke before the AS'Z iz Usshingtoa last
month he exiatioliy feclare! tiet e free ress {a Cube 18 ths

strongest errort and ibe deat ranrante? of democracy the--8.
te, 5 FZ. tap etiftary commanders.

a: inlividusis <bo have crit!

selling then camtemevoluticaists and esting the public to ..

Lorcott thea, f ay
Qeezhionr Do you weltere that it is possible for a traly

free procs 10 fmetion in tha atnosphsre created
ty actions of *tia satcre?

Eictes If scdetance tras ~ 3 3/797, 767 oan be wed, &
quastion such as the foll

SF sus In the report trav that Consepeida Palectos and
other Mesrarasa somuxiste are tetzz riven
fMoilities fa Cum to trains fnrce te invade

otter Caribiean costries?



alloved to exist and fimetica

SECRET

Br. Castro has said tint ths Comamist Party will be

-

just es Oxy politica}
Loe the

party, This scunds fine te theory but fn pouct!
ceanciste throurhout the vorid here shova ccupiste dip=
regard for lew ant loglity, if assossary to weure a
Gesired objective.

4

Snestions

In view of ths ebove aitartion do you foal
Unt Be, Cantro shoald take ary epsolel
steps ce proctutions te insure that tip
ocmmists wiil rot obtain positions ef
irportazes fo his administration?

Do you agree vith the epintca recently
expressed ty Jaleo Dubcis in @ cevoraper
article that “Ubs® Gosrure is « communist?

