# 104-10055-10058

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10055-10058

- 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SBCBIT

Chief of Station, Bangkok

Chief of Station,

Chlet, Far Fast Division

Chief of Station, (lelbourne

@Patrick PO ELA

BBIBFEROES:

B.

C.

D.

Action Roguired:

DIRECTOR 34594

BANGKOK 3988

MELBOURNE 6905

BANGKOK 3809

Please advise 1f still destrod that

Melbourne Station contact subject

1. In response to a brief letter Iron the undersigned,

which queried bia general plass, sabject has replled par

attachment:

Please note that he can make ulnsell available

arter & Hovenber 1968 for discusslons with Melbourne. The

Stazion defers to Bangkok and Director bether It is st1ll

desired that me summon subject to Melbourne for talks along

the lines Indicated la refereNCe D.

• Far

¡Note penultimate paragraph of subject's

lotter in uhich he ladicates that his daughter and lanily are

plannlag to leave Rangoon perzianantly. The manner la walch

this 18 phrased leaves It unclear whether they are attempting

this overtly or working behind the scenes.. The Station notes

Iron BANGKOK 9542 of I May 1968 that the daughter 15 narrled

to a Burma Alr force pllot: Rince no do pot bave any asses,

It may be unltkely that

rould have any Iafornation

on the case.

Attachreat: herenith

Letter

Distribution:

2 -

cos,

1

COS,

•C/FB

1

]

p/att

"/att & Cys

att.

cy

FAMA 5803

SECRET

ES COPY

201-073217

10 October 1968.

(8 October 1968)

Not known

In mentar 10f9

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DOUGAINViLLE,

New GuiNEA.

2h Octeber 1968

Dean Inr

→ thank gro for you let i o 2344

september, rerouted her

I am set 9 comediat time a de you

y his cole pening things The is cont

I cout be discin will ne s net a friend in That

en ronte la Perth and he wanted ane to fin his businen.

anticipating to here furthe pen this some, grence

litts faking up any job or me

3 haun

Puen as on the Capp

lege wee. this

jab cris be teiminatei

months nitre in setter

side althugh it an a priament basi

un an arden ant, Concinst ind

dedicate My cohole life la combatinths eveni

ito: destro

one west:

ma pen for the sa

bents word ten anyte

on a short. term

o be in aunter ponte

like that of the old contact in Vict han a

---

## Page 3

14-00000

work. Hu Victnames

cate ch are awand a Ch Matunil Police That,

17225

gain

find matter whe con deto wis fit and

a fee minds if ength ot consens

laughtes;

in lais did grandson this outy

intent o lost freiane to beans

lo lean Ragon for goate for Australe

die course

you letter call bank wither

Your suing;

---

## Page 4

14-00000

New GUNEN.

21 October: 1968

Dear

letter apeand n

"O thank gor for you eite of see

september, resorted

yin the fong to net.

a seck of a chunk o have in vas a the ages

The cord a discin will as I met a friend in th

en conte la Perth and he wanted in lo for hist

any up any gob to never five mint

› as An

Pusome Okien on Chu

dedicate My chole life la Carbatig this ener

on a shoit. tean

bent to be eit do i an pita

like that of the old contice in Vict hai

eneme see not candied she topus of

that this nored be is diffcucty ab

the extension after the mictice. the years.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

precite

severnment awarded ta

El natune Poli Meda

ves fonud

gly at me to do her it you flie

june matter wich came delay o patin k.

Laughter,

I look wal l hee

due Cense.

He go shan for to?

your letle hate last wishe

Your sinis

201-072217

---

