1704-10433-10080| E 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

sos nr
D is P AT € H : ; aims i ee
if .

MARKED FOR INOECNG

NO INDEXING REQUIRED.

‘ONLY QUALIFIED DESK.
(CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

SUBJECT
0 Transmittal of Yemo to legal Attache 2

“AGTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Please transmit to the Legal Attache the attached momo
vhich 4s. in response to his inguiry-of 17 March 1966.

— iuther King, Be ca 7609 bh

eo
a - bins |

CROSS REFERENCE TO



13-00000
eee eter seca i 7 + SECRET

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

We have no information that Subject appeared at a
" rally into date, nor does the Enbassy have knowledge
of a future visit. of KING tom.

Any future information which becomes available will

be forwarded to you. “We have also taken due note of your

desire that tne) utnorities not know of. your
£ eg : i :
| interest “in Subject's activities.
; =
a
‘-
i
a B ci
CoP,
r - Ay

RE



13-00000

: COoRp; ee
‘ x 7 OF aT Nar ST * :
; oe peer ATTACHMENT wry NTENceE
esssssseesonessessnoreoatastesbenat os Pian D FOR ANDAtrre

NO INDDLING REQUIRED

THO. GLY QUALIFIED DESK
(CAN JUDGE INODCING

_ | FRow i
: auieierats 7 MICROFILM

SUBJECT

O Transmittal af Neco to Legal Attache,

ib | ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES:

Please transmit to the Legal Attache the cttochod nemo

fj vhich 1s in response to his inguiry of 17 Herch 1966.

Aitachnents
eno re Martin luther King, Jr.

Distributions

10

t CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

, :
i

i 30 Farch 1966

: CLASSIFICATION WQS FLE NUMBER a



13-00000

a.

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

We have no information that. Subject appeared at a

rally in to date, nor does the Embassy have knowledge

of a future visit of KING to : :

Any future information which becomes available will

be forwarded to you. Lite have also taken due note of your

desire thatthe authorities not .kmow of. your

interest in Subject's activities.|

a


13-00000

__Chief of Station, Loudon

Chief, WE

FROM

_ Chief of Station, ee

SUBJECT

0 Transmittal of Nomo to Tegal Attache, Tendon _

ETON REQUIRED - REFERENCES

PROCESSING ACTON
MARKED FoR INDUCING
NO INOEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALITIEO DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

__ [mori

Please transmit to the Legal Attache the attached mmo

ve Attachment:

(Memo re Martin laither King, Jr.
Distribution:

2 ~ COS, London w/att

y2 = Chief, WE w/att

_ which is in response to his inguiry of 17 March 1966.

Leon 5. TO2ALL

68 Cory

CROSS REFERENCE TO -

Gore
adel ica carnal _
a Bu

‘DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUWOER
GHOA-19623

ur a

SOULE 2B)

Downgraded to

sal

Bee Cn @
Or). 769

by authority of

dato

QS THLE NUMBER

>

CONFIDENTIAL

ee ore

Be Pee on é-

DATE

30 March 1 1966



13-00000

Pt. COMBE

SUBJECT: MARTIN WHER ING, JR.

We have no information thas Subject appeared at a

rally in to ete » hor docs ‘the Exbassy have knowledge

‘of a future viet of KING to |

Any future information which becomes available will
.. be forwarded.to you. We have also taken due note of your
desire that the authorities not know of your :

interest in Subject's activities.

63 Copy,

JOO - BOL UG

Spe GOL refs

ha or a Te ”

