# 104-10143-10003

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10143-10003|

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

CONF: C/PCS/1TC-4

INFO: FILE, VR. DDD-4. C/AF-9,-C/EA-8

C/IP/DMS, CALA-S: COLSN/ID, CANE-O, CAPCS.

to Stag

DDO DO. ISS. ODPD-D..

(64/Р)

LADDED DISSEM PER C/S 1918182 REV AD: FILEO COCIN

T72P)

ERP

STAFP:

CHD-2110/COMMCC

C/POST

DOUY SRO

78. 02165204

PAGE 001

TOT: 1402567 JAN 78

DIRECTOT

154285

SECRET

STAFF 1402567 DIRECTUR 154285

TO:

MWSB.

WNINTEL RYBAT CHELA

LIMITATIONS RECORD RENES

1. IN ACCORDANCE WITH PUBLIC LAM 90-331 AND WITHIN THE

PLACED UPON ITS ACTIVITIES BY OTHER STATUTES AND

SECRET SERVICE (USSS) IN THE ACCOMPLISHMENT OF ITS PROTECTIVE

RESPONSIBILITIES.

ON 18 JULY 1977 AN AGREEMENT WAS EXECUTED BETWEEN

THE USSS AND CIA CONCERNING COOPERITION BETWEEN THE TWO AGENCIES

AN IMPORTANT ASPECT UF CIA ASSISTANCE IS THE PROMPT PREPARATION AND

DELIVERY TO THE USSS OF INFORMATION BEARING ON PROTECTIVE MÄTTERS.

TO ENSURE THAT SUCH INFORMATION REACHES THE

USSS EX""

PEDITIOUSLY, THE FOLLOMING REPORTING AND INFORMATION HANDLING

PROCEDURES ARE ESTABLISHED:

iд..

MEMBERS OF

USSS PRUTECTEES ARE THE PRESIDENT. VICE PRESIDENTA

THEIR IMMEDIATE FAMILIES, FORMEF PRESIDENTS. THEIR WIVES

OR WIDOWS AND CHILDREN TO AGE 16 AND. IN CERTAIN CASES DISTINGUISHED

FOREIGN VISITORS TO THE U.S. AND OFFICIAL U.S. REPS ON SPECIALIS

MISSIONS ABROAD. INFORMATION CONCERNING FOREIGN THREÄTS TO USSS

NIACT:

8 CABLES ON THIS SUBJECT SHOULD BE SLUGGED RYBAT CHELA

WHERE ADDITIONAL INDICATORS ARE ASSIGNED FOR SPECIFIC PURPOSES OR

OPERATIONS SUCH AS PRESIDENTIAL TRIPS, THESE INDICATORS SHOULD

FOLLO RYBAT CHELA.

CABLES SHOULD BE ORGANIZED IN TWO PARTS APPROPELTE

ABELED AS PART ONE AND PART TWO.

THE FIRST PART SHOULD CONTAIN

ALL PERTINENT OPERATIONAL AND SUESTANTIVE INFORMATION INCLUDING

SOURCE AND DETAILS OF ACQUISITION. THE SECOND PART SHOULD BEGIN

WITH THE WORDS, "FOR SECRET SERVICE" AND IS FOR IMMEDIATE PASSAGE

PART SHOULD CONTAIN ALL ESSENTIAL ELEMENTS OF THE

THREAT INFORMATION WITHOUT IDENTIFYING SQURCES AND METHODS.

AND.

WITHOUT CRYPTS, ALIASES AND TRADECRAFT TERMINOLOGY.

• THE INFORMA-

TION FOR USSS, MOWEVER, MUST BE COMPLETE, DETAILED, CLEAR AND.

SECRET

20251

---

## Page 2

SECRFT

7N 02165204

PAGE 002

TOT: 1402562 JAN 7854

CIRECTOR 154285:

PRECISE.

IT SHOULD INCLUDE A SOURCE AND RELIABILITI DESCRIPTION

IF PART TRO IS ONITTED BECAUSE THE STATION BELIEVES THE CABLES?

CONTAINS NO SUBSTANTIVE INFORMATION NOT PREVIOUSLY REPURTED OR

NEEDED 'BY THE USSS, HOS WILL DETERINE WHETHER ANY ADDITIONAL

INFORMATION SHOULD BE SENT TO USSS.

E2 IMPDET.»

ORIGA POSTETE (WA STOELZEL)Y COORD: ADC/AF (KANE): C/EA. (DOREY?!:

LUR/A CLA CLAIRIE COLA (WARREN CANE: ALISE CERANK)E GICI

¡TOVARI: F/ISS; -AUTH: C/PCS (PAGE); AJADDO (SHACKLEY)"

END

'OF MESSAGE

S

CRET

---

