‘04-10186-40273)

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Spd

meen

RETURN Too,

IOUT Reed ane I the wansmiaien c@ frcatve akan to any manor te 60 "pe Bioun d Use 1A
SECRET Not ReproaustY”
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
country Cuba REPORT NO, CSCI-316/00695-64
SuMECT Ramiro RODRIGUEZ Gomez pate iste 25 August 1964
NO. PAGES 3
REFERENCES.
pare or 1964
SRM i ia FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS 15 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOUSSE SRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE

source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban
Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments: :
p

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the aderessees take no action on any
of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports
without first checking with this Agency.

Ramiro RODRIGUEZ Gomez is the Chief of the Direccion
General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence -
DaI) in Brazil. Although sozrce knows hig gensgngl}yg he
could provide no additional information .12,3,4,9,6,7,8,

Headquarters Comments

1. Ina report dated 8 June 1955, a representative of this
Agency obtained the following information from an official

Cuban Service:

The Match Industry Workers‘ Union, prior to 1951,
was in the hands of the Communists with Ramiro RODRIGUEZ
Gomez as Secretary General: since 1953, it has been
controlled by the Progressive Labor Bloc. Source said
that RODRIGUEZ, an active Party member and director of
the Comate de Lucho, was a former candidate for councilman
for the Partido Socialasta Popular (PSP). He has not
been admitted into the uaion. z

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
[stare Tor Taewy Trave Tee iy eK. Toe TFBI 2
CINCLANT __CINCSO # ". 1&NS oe

The Fait srbanon indvcated be")

1 Lx-1541
1 + ¥O PROJECT CAMMUGHL
HY ¢sc1-316/00695~

daninalgaasaease a
jocOomDIaT na

——t

Toanen i
H i

pant a oe 201-331829


Und

SECRET H
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

~2-

Ausually reliable source, in a report dated 2 March 1962, reported
on the travel of Cubans through Rio de Janciro during Novcaber

And December 1961. Included on the list was Ramiro RODRIGUEZ
Gomez who-arrived from Habana on 27 November 1961. He carried
Diplomatic Passport Number 570 with Visa number D-407 issued in
Habana on 27 December 1961, ‘His date and piace of birth’ were
given os 11 March 1928, in Habana.

A usually reliable source, in a report dated 23 April 1962, stated
that Ramiro RODRIGUEZ Gomez was the First Secretary of the Cuban
Embassy in Rio de Janeiro.

An unknown source, in August 1962, reported that Ramiro RODRIGUEZ,
who urrived in Brazil on 28 December 1961, as First Secretary,
was formerly the First Secretary of the Quban Embassy in Venezuela
and wus identified as a G-2 agent there. He was born on |

11 March 1928. He was Secretary General of the Match Industry
Workers' Union before 1961, at a time when it was in the hands

of the Communists.

In a report dated 20 December 1962, a fairly reliable source gave
the following information on Ramiro RODRIGUEZ, Charge d'Affaires
of the Cuban Embassy in Rio de Janeiro. He is about five feet
eight inches tall, 150 pounds, has a small mustache, black hair,
a swarthy complexion, dresses well, is very poised socially,

has a quick mind and is rather introverted. He was born about

1927. ob

An [Beet ineeetietiieiel in a report dated 28 December 1962,
said that Ramiro jomez is suspected Cuban intelligence.
Since December 1961, he has been the First Secretary.at the
Cuban Embassy in Rio de Janeiro. He was formerly the First
Secretary at the Cuban Embassy in Caracas and was said to be
head of G-2 there and responsible for organizing the November
1961 attacks on Cuban exiles in Caracas.

In a report dated June 1963 an unknown source said that his
assistant was told by Ramiro RODRIGUEZ that there would bo almost
a complete changeover of personnel shortly; he added that only
the Commercial Attache, Camilo DOMENECH Gadea, would not be
returning soon to Cuba.

It was reported in August 1963, that Ramiro RODRIGUEZ, former
Charge d'Affaires of the Cuban Embassy in Rio'de Janeiro, was
still in Rio de Janeiro; apparently he had not completely briefed
the new ambassador.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



9.

Yp/

. SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
<3-
A fairly reltable source, in; a report dated 2 January 1964,
stated that Ramiro RODRIGUSZ Gonez, First Secretary of the

Cuban Embassy in Rio de Janeiro, departed Rio de Janeiro on
18 August 1963, for Cuba and returned to Rio de Janctro on

.23 November 1963. Source observed that RODRIGUEZ has been

in a bad humor since his return and is rude to his former
friends, including Nivea BRASIL, wife of the Communist,

Colonel Jocelyn BRASIL, “RODRIGUEZ and Mrs. BRASIL were on

very intimate terms (according to source, adulterous), but
RODRIGUEZ spurns her attempts at being chummy again. Source
feels that RODRIGUEZ is up to something special and notes

that he is in close contact with General Luiz Gonzaga LEITE,

the organiaztr of the Ciba Solidarity Congress. According

to RODRIGUEZ' (ile card in che Protocol Division of the 24
Ministry of Foreign | Affairs] RODRIGUEZ was born on !1 March 1928,
in Habana. s wife is IseI DOMINGUEZ de Armas and they

have one aug ter, Eva RODRIGUEZ Dominquez, who was born

about 1950.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
