“"to4-10229-10414]

ORDS ACT OF 1992
HE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION REC!
{2022 RELEASE UNDER TI :

See
YOoerntaong
! <MtStory itecords oa Three Brigade Neabers_
Sho Require Psychiatrie Care.

2, During Alico p. Caponong'’s TW at Ueadquarters the latter
- part of July 1°65 sho discussed the Subject of this dispatch with
Levis w, Dollany. ig Neadquarters is aware, JIGAVR has tuo On-colay -
prowcnns for the buncfit of the Brigade 2966 wwembers who requive upeciay
attention, Thess Progvasm cover eodical attention and vocational
robabilitation traintog. Ia thy weiicnl acpeet of these programs
there are threo beychiatric cases who represent wh.t could be permanent
financial responsibilities oF RUBARK. «(Ia addition to these two
programs, affected Ray of Pigs Brigace monbecs continue to recetve
i noureey financial auLport.) Under the Bedical program tho Bade Couaty
Mouieal Association physicians dusated their services &ratts to asuist
those Brigade Renmbers and tho docal bespitals bave un a reduced rute
for their facilities, However, the psychiatrists, ety not sue tit to
Feovice their sorvicos free of charge, Hence, couts for these indiyia-
“als range from $300 to $400 Por Booth foc professional services, plus
the monthly financial support provided ach, Aiso, due to their mental
stato, they are uaable to participate to the vocational cebubilitation
program, Prom the reports of th» psychlatrists, there svezs to be no
daodication what Wo can oxpect ao end to these treataeuts in the near

[Shaehe Wee b thig Soi A scat PEM GD eosee SF
a. In diacusslog tho Battor with Lowia x, Dolluay it az agrood

hat the Ghed case hhaporte, bese the retvicuals us. O
eon yee eI, Langs Livers f.anee tag Macaorin ligrmanvy a deni
wohls be Torwarded to tuo Hecical Branch, “Tiere ‘Umey would walyzud:
by the paychiatric statt to ees what Corelusious aizht be reached are
What Solutions mizht be foun. (re sight auction tere (hat at dicAVe's
Pretest Headquarters haw alraacy Checked whth thw Veterans Adalalutuae
tion concerning thetr facilities put no practical so1ation wag Ponchec
dn this instance. seo UFG, AYel7S of 14 supust leek, URGE S1UG of
Zh Sevtember 1064, UFGA 14,C01 or 18 October 184, UFGS 5353 of
29 Ortobur 1964 and UGA 19, 189 of 28 Decomber itca).

BRS) -vA / Continued /
Attachment:
Case Histocies, b/w

Distribution: =
3 NodicalServices,w/ui

-ertnsse

oo Ei
7 Sept ipss |. SEPIA TES

we leg——
CDE SER BS MeO

| OATE ospatomto



|
i
|
i
i
|
1
i

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH . SPCRET

3. Lewis N. Dollany alsc sucrested tho ponsibility of his dis-
cussing each of these tivivic=l cases with either tho attending
psychiatrists or with tho satients themselves, ither of these
revsthilities could be arrance< by tne Statioo with some advance

notice,

4. ¥e would appreciate being kupt advised of progress in thie
mattor,

FHILIP G, ELMARD

