104-10110-10430) . [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

ground Us;

Do Not Reproduce”
Manhattan Field Office
26 April 1963 .

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Investigative Division
SUBJECT 3

1. Reference is made to your telephone call of ay)
25 April 1963. an

7 oe

2. on that date, Agent O'HARE contacted(John

BARRY,) the housenolder at Q4 Eton Placd? Eastchester) N.Y,

to ré-brief him ip accordance with Headquarters instructions.
0

3.  fzanit}imeasately apologized for not contacting
any one at regarding an incident which occurred on ob
either Monday or Tuesday, 22 or 23 April. According to (BARRY,) 7
on one of those dates the "Philadelphia Inquirer" newspaper
go ried to telephonically contact (BARRY}% In thg absence of
and his wife, the "Inquirer" called (ARRY'S next-door
neighbor, Mrs. Gerome STOCKHAUSEN) of(42 Bton Blace} and
inquired about the SUBJECT. °? 0 i
ol

o6
4, Mrs. (GTOCKHAUSEN) subsequently informed (BARRY a)
wife that the "Inquirer" wanted to know such things as:

DDS/10S
-| ADDS/IOSI.

A. Who CARSWELL vas? ;
°
B. Was he related to the (BARR}s?

C. When was the last time CARSWELL was seen
at the(BARRYS'?

i oO

D. Did the neighbor (GrocksausEy) know anything
about CARSWELL in view of the fact that he
was supposed, to have lived at/(1h Eton Place}

a
5. According to (BARRY, Mrs. STOCKHAUSEN) informed the
"Inquirer" that she neither knew CARSWELL nor anything about him.
Be advised further that vhen Mrs. (STOCKHAUSEN) informed Mra. ane)
o6 6



tae

of the 11, she expressed interest in what wes going on,
since tie daily papers contained references to CARSWELL's
release ind his employment by CIA.

a
0& 6, (aarnDreportea that his wife edvised Mrs,
4 the SUBJECT was a friend of her husband,

06(Jonn BARRY’ a that he, the SUBJECT, traveled a lot and

merely ised : place to leave some clothes and
occasiomliy receive mail.

7. It is noted that in January 1961, items in the
newspaper concerning ‘8 est by the Cubans listed
his address at(i4 Eton Place)in Geotcheste)

ob iP) 10

8. was again requested to inform Agent
O'HARE of any futiire contacts with him by anyone concerning
the SUBJZCT, and he again agreed to do so.

“ee
0 OPT
. FAVORINI

Special Agent in Charge

Fonee

s ey sr ae

OB OREM nT

iH

ae

“sy
y

Bee a ow.

ae

t
*

