# 104-10186-10040

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10186-10040

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproguce.

INFORMATION REPORTA

ANFORMATION RERORI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

molaron of "hIa in any menDre lo an unautlorad persos la probibited do lam

S-E-C-R-E-T

SO FOREIGN DISSEY

COUNTRY

Cuba.

SUBJECT Ramiro VALDES Menendez

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

CSC1-316/02301-65

7 June 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

C9-311/06115-64

DATE Of

INFO.

1964

8 July 1964

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

FIELO REPORT NO.

DATE ACO IARUNEVALUATEO INORMATION. LOURI ORADINOS ARE DERMITUE AMMISAI OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCES

A former Cuban IS officer who served with thi Cuban Ine-lligerce

Service until April 1964.

Headguarters Comments

The following refort 1s one of a sertes containing firsonality

information provided by the source and includes surpl-mental

information from the records of this Agercy.

It 1s requested that the addressees tair no action or any ca

the individuals

mentioned in

persorality reports witt.cut

first checking with this Agency.

1.

Ramiro VALDES Menendez, the Minister of Interlor, Ilvis in a

house on 9th Avenue between 66ih and 68th Str-re

The ho-s

is only a short distance from the Departam nto de Liberasier

Nacional (National Liberation Department - day Iccapad or irt.

Avenue in the Miramar district of Havana.

2.

VALDES was married to one Irina VALDES; how-vus, semitin- prior

to April 1964, they

were divorced.

5

3

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEY!

STATE

I DIA

! ARMY

REPCISCLANT

CISCSO *

MANY

I&Y'S

(Nors: field distributica ladicated by "#')

INFORMATION REPORTA

WAISTEN

LE75/R

LNE YAOR_

CI/ R&2

WF JRE

21-0

INSA

Т лік

FR!

2

INEORMATIONTREPORT

L/WASH PRI

PEC, H1:2

110

RIC/AY

W..!!.

or a

LX-2.129

IF

"tiri.-1'

= 50:-318.02308-

COOMDIMATING

RID!

---

