# 104-10086-10279

## Page 1

B2222

1104-10086-10279

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Profict ZRRiFLE

REPRODUCTION

1. Edentificatio

te spot, develop,

- PROHITE

Profeet ZRRiFLE is

pent auto for Dinisis D.

pot operatione. Apents will be spotted in avered aress,

: milesing the Uited Atitts, but witt pond for operationed

smity resious will probably wet be wed in their

countries of revilence: Present declipmental actuet, is

benig conducted in the WE and HE areas, but it

is unticipated that this well he extiled to atter disician.

The profect will be spented against thind country.

mitallations and personnel.

2. Olestice: The epictive of this propert in the her,

of i code and cipher materies, in scandauce with

reguisements levied on the Clandestice tences, prime bn,...

the Nationel termite Agency. lice there requiremento are

cutiert to froquent nevicion, wo listing of tengets would.

he valid for the dustion of the propect. specific

operations will he mounted on the bacie of need and

oppertunity. Thie profect will be conductel he Dicion

D with assistance from area divisione and stations as

a satan REPRODUCTION

needed.

0U9J307

PROHIBITED

-

3. Rachpound he responce to the increasing requirements

for the operational procurement of foreign code and cipher

materials, Dicion D in 1960 began the spotting of

REPRODUCTiONt e a developmental actint; ring the same

PROHIBITED

SECRET

PAGE

3 05

43

COPY NO.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-period requinemento from NSA becaue mare refuel aud in

many respecto rare rustice: Becauce most stitismo are

not equipped to conduct this type of aperetic and because

of the desiralility of complete, centralized control over this

entire effort, it was determied that Dision D, which is

in creet touch with NSA on procurement repuriest, could

best conduct the actity. The tink spotting actint,.

has now aluauced for enough

ug from

Are 004 catepory.t

REPRODUIGTION

PROHIBITED

4. Operatisual arse

(1) Persuel: 1P5 WiN is under writter

contract as a precipel agent, with the primary tacle of

spotting agent candilstes. O fuin was finit contacted in

1958. through the Tick I the Incentung Fat he,

the chief of tation, Luxemboung, in comection witte.

an illegal rarestics operation into the United Astes. For

a perish of a year, and a half times contected i t

sporadically be COS, Jukencloung, in behalf of the

Bureau of Meresties. Hiles of this Bureau reflect

an icellent performance l Quin, Du Apster. 1960,

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

-SECRET

PAGE

COPY

NO.

4

of

43

---

## Page 3

14-00000

REPRODUCTION I

PROHIBITED

A fui am REPRODUCTION

* 7, 200

Traud + a PROHIBTED

Q fui + other agento 4 agent caulidated: 2, 000.

Nees for cervices buy and

standles of agents and

agent candidates:

2,000

Travel of staff emplogees ..

ensased in Zorifle actuity :

2,500

Hire of safelouses, automobiles

and otte, spectiond pence:

1, 000

$ 14,700

Pay for apents on completion of jobs?

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

PAGE

COFY NO

5 01.43

---

## Page 4

14-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

bilite,.

2) Our en experie (Bught Hellest on DSP) and expernice

professial, proven spentially competent, vittlers, stable,

Fenienced ope officine few ailable, able to conduct patient.

3) Manne recity :

a. Kuberk on (RUHBATED

tinguara

harow?; no approad, to iths taut agencies.

b. Within Rubat, one focal font for control,

in this focal part resudatory, Di officall serial?

caller auly; no restrictions on travel; porciliate,

of ine-man overess (Europe) antrol hase with?

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

from start to finish.

ficiala a foreigu

gaut.

REPRODUCTION

" Hart agency, Train

Markel in the search.

de. Atand ki, histo ' harker, who can

SEGRET

PAGE

6

_ of

COPY NO.

43

---

## Page 5

14-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

pass as forciquere.

slationa.

4 Blichmail:.

people who wer ottawed as, weis.

I No chain AR

ENODUCTE

person to

1: Exclude openiset, itsels, there...

ro/recand of amerts, thase if mithilet, of purpore

_ as eximinals.

e. Haffers nuidued -celtisio.

5. Couer: plammig cliseld rictude provision for

pill aming tous or Geds in case of blour.

s. Use nobod, mho has never lect of micals, otheris

will oat lee aware of pitfalls or suster factors such

as freelon to traud, wanted liste, eto".

→ 4. Held have pliny 201 in R to hachstop there, elt.

documents the in forged t backdated, should Lookshie

a CE file:

10. mille we a REPRODUCTION.

I tilverthorne.

PROHIBITED

Keeping of files.

SEGRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

• PAGE

COPY

NO.

701-43

---

## Page 6

14-00000.

i.

S.

Legal, operational + ethics insole pirate

→ tig leprat secure enough.

OMARITED

Marine securits I within Kubart

- suly (aig., how hawmeud...

does tiraqica vour buco?). timetetire on muler este

derks for enciplering + decipernig

thrise if Fauvide alectice.

3) Tre foed prit for resch, conto, tracing, cre-offer + PA.

celestion. Complete

DDP authority in this focel priet maristory,.

Overeas one man

contral base witt run frontator canness

3) Every openitine to

he migitte

cose-officered; no sill-shunt

REPRODUCTION

NIU

or..

Unili

D

marican

for duect setons;.

posilly for apprade to foreign elemento..

No criminal

who tainted bey use.

ly dusther American agency- Ice of

a pau as foreiquere- and linted

official reference

5) No chair of

knections peritting blackmeil.

6) Don't meet

any aetecter in hore teritory.

7) Quaid Raision us foreign Afticisle with ell prililt,.

i read through REPRO

quin, has

been ecatied..

PROHIBITED

3) Planing child include perse.

ise for blowing

touets (on Gecks) in save of blow!

in 4 absue escential.

9) Exclude openization omicials, there with second of

invests, there who hame ergaged i send types of creing

REPRODUCTION

SECRET

0003312

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY NO.

, of

43

---

## Page 7

14-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

could lead it.

11) Corsicaus recommendel. ticilico

Mafia.

11) Toneer recitance percound.

after pricklitis, (ass

anties,

-13 Period of tect

uncillauce, eto = for each

Le REPRODUETIOA CE

expererce..

i5 What an

e limits on team or riditics sol

selected? Mo team" motil reads, to gos

1, 7 Daups of standigs

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0003313

PAGE

COPY

: NO

-2 05.

43

---

## Page 8

14-00000

id

7- 25/ -

Eye REDa

HD DUCTON

arca

"The magic luittor

tics Rüro DG

TED

La dumig

AIS 201 cones

auton - Baukrufiteg.

io stas

eges -

Tso gum A

Kratile

/ Conträcesteur.

RODUCTION n U-2

s apply krakes. PROMBITED

Yost

a sont eion ylus nezaie

- El Ienepoctor →

= actumphoi-

→ Exampbo 3 "curon""

anewech s Sidis fahi

Etut A70- merioi

Lenfera

rravcoti a -t2€

oxie

pherons -(1uuth.és).

omfet- Fear

"vathecia -

i...

REPRODUCTION

AS- FanfonPROMIBITT

no fil Rerieee..

Fzso neia meriton

i vond aisatincetn

Io Selet puper ofera to resma

2. Plaes a coner

3. Secuuut, RulerSEGRET

zuey o. 2

D-WiN-AS-

EPFON t u- Bukes

sid - Reseiu

Sukectetat rexe

ie-bian

PROHIBITED

PAGE

10

of

: 43

СОРУ

NO.

0U03314

---

## Page 9

14-00000

6.

no all agenci

REPRODUCTION

?. No fioject or to PROMIBiTED

53.

except per louis.

(Mantel)?=

tester 1300-prom AB=

wack stat

Di Jagit

PROHIBITED

must thou love

we can spal -

case officering

ia comer pile-create de prora

13. has dangers of B/S counte

actions

dre lilared -

= marita this,

7dV let - Remember

REPRODUCTION

PROHOBITED

SEGRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

ÜUU3315

11

PAGE

COPY

NO.

43°

of

---

