# 104-10186-10121

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10121

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

IN FOMON REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY CUDA

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT Fernando FLESTES Coba

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduco

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

CSC1-316/01228-64

2 October 1968

2

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Nashington,

D. C.

DATE ACOOCtOber 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEFIMITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

Tho following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includos supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addresses take no action on any

of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Fernando FUENTES Coba was a lieutenant in the Cuban Polico

worked in the Confidential Department under Commarder

ErISenio tALMEJEIRAS, Chief of Police.

Although source cannot

verify 1t, he heard

that FUENTES was discharged from the police

forco because of problems relnting to drugs.

The last source

heard of FUENTES, he was working

in a printing establishment

Source described FUENTES

3

uipo

Headquarters Comments

1. Included with a report dated 27 November 1959, was &

complete list of the personncl employed by the Departaxento

Tecnico de Investigaciones (Technical Department of Investi-

as of 6 November 1959.

Included on the list

Sargeant Fernando FUENTES Cobas who worked in

the section responsible for foreign intelligence

operations for the Policia Nacional Revolucionaria (National

Revolutionary Police - PNR).

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

: O1A

і ляму

REP CINCHANT

_CINCSO ₫

(Noia, frelo diss aul un inarated by '#".)

I NAT

NSA

LNaX

I OCR

1 FBI 2

NECAMATION. REPO

RT

INIFORMATION REPORT

3

2

1

HE/SATOR L HELLADR

MELLSALE

15-0

CIAR$A

LIEXCAYADA

LECBRITSHI

iLeX-1693 .. =

NO PROJECT (ALVUG/I)

-CSCI-316 01228-64

TOrALA NA/SA 7 (1), NE 1 (2), CI%,

..355

RID 1

111180n,

001-095067

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01228-64

-2-

2. In untested source save a representative of this Agency a copy of

• list of regulations isgued on 15 May 1960 by tho National

Rerolutionary Police,

which came under the dinistry of the Revolu-

tionary Armed Forces of Cuba, for the disciplino of members of

the Servicto Secreto Revolucionario (Cuban Revolutionary Secret

Service - SSR•).

This docuncht was signed by Fernando FUENTE Coba,

Chief of the Confidential Section of the General Command of the

national Revolutionary Police.

3.

In a repurt dated 19 May 1962, an untested source, who was a guide

interpreter for the ICAP, a Cuban government agency which

1960 when he started working for the Tourist Polico, a part of.

January or February 1961, COBAS transferred to the

4. In a report dated 20 September 1962, an untestod source reported

that Fernando FUENTES Covas was with the Policia Transita (Transit

Police, In the DIl.

5.

Another office of this Agency, in a report dated 26 December 1962,

that Fernando FUENTES Coba, a Cuban national, had been

convicted in 1957 of violation of the United Statos immigration

FUENTES was engaged in forging birth certificates

Cuban nationals to enter the United States as Puorto Ricans.

FUENTES moved to Miami, where he became an ardent Castrista. In

July 1959, he served as a provocateur in luring an Amorican flyer,

Safael del PINO, to Cuba, ostensibly to smuggle someone out of

Because of his success in luring del PINO back

where he was badly wanted by the Castro regime, FUENTES received

an important position in the Confidential Bureau of the Cuban

G-2, and for a time served as chief of the Bureau.

6.

On 29 January 1963, a source whose reliability cannot be determined,

reported that he had seen

Fernando FUENTES Coba, described as a

Castro agent,

from the SS Shirley Lykes on 25 January 1963,

st Port Everglades.

7,!

)reported on 25 February 1963, that

in Habana, Cuba.

Fernando FUENTES Coba was born on 21 June 1920 United States from

FUENTES was a former permanent resident of the

1916 to 1949, and served in the United States Army.

At the time of

this report FUENTES was described as a photographer with the

Tourist Commission in Habana.

1963, reported that FUENTEs was outtied in nailert, Canada, and

had obtained temporary employment.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

:

---

