# 104-10330-10095

## Page 1

104-10330-10096

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

.10/30/97

• TU 17:20 FAX 202 724 0457

ARRB

REC

1002

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor • Washington. DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

VIEW

BOAR

October 30, 1997

VIA FACSIMILE

J. Barry Harrelson

Senior Review Officer

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Submission of CIA's Initial Statement of Compliance Under the JFK

Assassination Records Collection Act, 44 U.S.C. § 2107

Dear Mr. Harrelson:

I have been asked by Jeremy Gunn to take responsibility, along with Robert Skwirot

and Michelle Combs, for handling the Review Board's JFK Act Compliance Program

with respect to the Central Intelligence Agency.

Mr. Gunn has informed me that you have agreed to provide us with the CIA's initial

compliance statement (as it is described in our November 27, 1996 letter to the CIA) by

the end of November 1997. Thereafter, we can establish a reasonable time for the CIA

to prepare and submit its Final Declaration of Compliance. The CIA's Final Declaration

will be submitted to Congress and the President.

Thank you for your cooperation.

Sincerely,

Ronald S. Hawn

Ronald G. Haron

Associate General Counsel

Cc: (Linda Cipriani, Esq.

BOARo MeMBEns: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • Williem L. Joyca • Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell

---

