104-10096-10047, l 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORES ACT OF 1992 Js

15 May 1972

MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION

SUBJECT : Meeting with Hal Hendrix, HW May 1972

1. Hal Hendrix called my home on 10 May, saying that he was
in Washington and wished to see me, Arrangemert 6 were later made te
mect him in downtown Washington at a street corner at 8:00 am on
ll May. I picked him up as scheduled, and after driving around awhile
we had breakfast at the Marriot NMetel in Rosslyn, after which I drove
him to the airport so he could catch the 10:36 a.m, plane to New York,

2. Hendrix had a nuraber of points to convey, but nonsz of them
were of such importesce for him to have made a trip to Washington
just te se2me, Therefore, his explanation seems plaueil hat he was
in Washington basically to see Jerry Mannifin of the Time/Life bureau
to discuss a lezd on who might have leaked ITT docurnents to Jack Anderco
Hendrix explained that he was recently told by a "Caribbean ruffian'"
named Fnu Goodfriend that the pereon who furnished the IT! documents
te Jack Anderson was Irving Davidson, an ald fxiznd of Anderson who some
yearn ago had once set 2pide a desk in his office for Anderson to use on
occasion. Goodfriend said that the picture of Dita Beard with a number
of hex Washington contacts publighed carly in the Ii T scandal days had
included Davidson somewnere in the group. Davidson is described as 3
lobbyist for one or more Latin 4merican Governments as well as for
Isreel. Hannifin is considered a very knowledgeable and trusted friend
by Hendrix who wanted Hannifin's opinion whether Davidson might in
fact be a source of Anderson's, Hannifin's initial inypression was
that this was a remote possibility, but he said he would check around and
try and talk to Davidson himself to see whether he could get a rise on
the question of JIT. Hendvix said he came away from the rnecting with
Bannifin pretty well convinced that the lead to Davidson as the source on
ITT documents was probably not a good one.

SO



7 1; ee : cd

3, Hendrix commented to me thit the general feeling in N.Y.
in that there may be two penetrations in the Washington office, two iu
the N.Y. office, and one in their Cleveland office. He did not claborate,

+ 4 Hendrix made the following comments about the ITT/Chile
documents: :
A. He was aware that Raymond Brittenham, whom he

dencribed as a cenior Vice President and a bit of a fuddy-duddy

who enjoys Harold Geneen's confidence, had first seen Jehn McCone
and then come to. Washington recently to talk with Agency represents
about the ITT/Chile documents. ‘One proposal that Brittcnham had
thought of discussing with the Agency was that several sensitive
documents be turned over to the Agency for safekeeping, He did

not scem to know whether this had actually been discussed by _
Brittenhom with the Agency, Hendrix czid that Prittenham had
discussed with the Agency what ITT might gay in the Senate
hearings, what the Agency might say, ete, (I. did not.ucknowledge
having known that Erittenham mct with Ageacy soprescentatives,
saying that this was presumably 2 7th floor matter. He might not
have believed me, but I thought it better not lo confirma the fact

to hiry that a contact had in fact taken place eince he apporently

did not talk to Brittenham himself about this. }

B. Fnu Schafer, the lawyer of the firm in Washington
retained by ITT as counsel for the expected Senate hearings on
Chilean activitics of L{T, has told LTT officials that he thinks
the timing and intensity of the Senate sub-committee interest in
the Chilean activities of ITT will depend on the generat political
situation in the U.S,., particularly in Viet Nam. Schafer has been
: in touch with Pat Holt, the sub-committee aide,

: : C. None of the ITT documents on Chile have been turned
over yet to the Senate sub-committee, The docurnents are still
being worked on by LTT. When pressed es to the quantity involved,
Hendzvix said the total is about 509 documents,



ra ie (d

eau

D. The three documents Hendrix mentioned to mé at our
last mecting as being incriminating from the point of view of
documenting ITT funds of political activities in Chile have not
been destroyed. ITT's chief lawyer in N.Y. has told Hendrix
that while away ona trip recently, at least four young lawyers
in his office read these documents. He tried to transfer one
of the lawyers out of his office, and the man threatened to blow
the whistle on ITT over these documents if transferred, One
of tho other four lawyers feels equally strongly about these
documents. Asa result, the documents cannot be destroyed.
It is not clear, however, whether ITT plans to turn thess three
documents over to the Senate. Evidenially 1TT had first hoped
to turn these documents over to the Agency for safekcening in

preference to turning them over to the Senate,

E. It has been determined hy ITT lewyers that biacking
out proper names in docurnents before they turn the documents
over to the Senate sub-committee is permissable. The ITT
lawyers are now going over ali 500 docurnents to do this, concentra
on.the names of Chileans, If they finally turn over the three
sensitive documents to the committee, names of persore, banks,
and finding mechanisms will be deleted, but the basic purpose of
mT funding Alessandri cannot bo hidden.

¥. In discussing these three decummts, Hendrix said
that thé man in N.Y. to whom ITT was to have paid the money for
Alessandri was (fnu) Orchard, a Chilean employed by UN pai ari
(eather than a member of the Chilean Mission to the UN}. 2 comp
through which the payments wera to be made was the ea ee
Shipping Company, (This agrees with information in the files).
I acked whether the Swiss Bank account nurnber for other trans-
actions was also listed there, and Hendrix looked puzzled and said
that no Swise Bank account was involved. WhenlI pressed and
said rny understandiug was that earlicr he had told me money for
the Edwards group went through a Swiss account, he merely
said there were no references to thot in these three dacuments,
He then said one of the three documents was unfortunately a
moscage from Gerrity authorizing thet the Alessandri movement be
given “half the sum recommended by tiendrix, " :



5. Hendrix spoke by telephone to Berrellez on 9 or 10 May at
which time Berrellez reported on a meeting that day with GM@BRIG-2 ©
in Buenos Aires, ‘This was the first time that they had met since their
early April meeting in N.Y. Berrellez told fPWERIG-2 that ho had not
been able to make the deposit on the second $100,000 for reasons Hendrix
had explained earlier to me. (FWBHRIG-2 was concerned by this and asked
that ITT do everything possibie to sesume these payments since he had
money troubles, (Berrellcz remarked, however, that (BPRIG-2 seemed
in very good spirts personally, and quite optimistic about the chances
} of the opposition in Chile), Hendrix plans to reopen the question of resumin
: payments to the Edwards people in Chile when he gets back to N.Y. and
sees Gerrity.

.6, The U.S. manager of the ITT telephone manufacturing plant
in Chile slipped up to the States a few days ago and reported that he
thought the government would be moving in on the ITT property very
soon, He had already been aut ized by the company to send his’
furniture up, ITY is also asking Benjamin Holmes to come up te the

t U.S, for a visit. I remarked that my recollection was that Helmes

was on rather good personal contact with President Salvador Allende,
and Jose Toji, but Hendrix commented that even Holrnes was now ee
suspicion by the Government of Chile.

7. Hendrix heard yesterday from Bob Deach (phonetic) of the
Scripps Howard office in Washington that Ambassador Edward Korry had
left his position at OPIC and is now the president of a book seller's
associztion according to a press item which appeared within the last
‘two weeks. Hendrix was unaware of this and asked whether I knew
anything about it which I said I did not. . ects i

8 He had a rather interesting explanation of the by-play in
Chile on turning the ITT nationalization question over to the Congress to
decide. Berrellez reports that there has been a delay in Allende's
proposal that Congress handle the ITT nationalization because of
disagreement on how to procced, The fear of some hard-liners was
that the government was not being tough enough on ITT, Allende's intent
apparently is to make a proposal that the Congress would be forced to
rejoct thereby giving the President a chance to call a plebiscite on ihe
issue which, being about ITT, he could not possibly lose. An interesting
thourht,


9. The daughter of Pendrix is engaged to Lewis ("Lon")
Constantine, who is applying for ob with the Agency. Ve has passed
certain exams and was to have an interview in Washington on ll May
followed by a physical ¢ shortly afterwards. A hitch has developed
in that he was originally considered for some sort of a jeb in the photo~
graphic ficld, but he has b d the job has now been filled by someone
who ret to > jot
contract, prebably to yo to La

tuation and

{fh with the

some offer

Agency. (Hendrix claimed that Constantine is not awa fiancee:
once worked for thi and that she has stuck toh story as

fa
would be
Agency's
in ony w.

me employment gcos, Hi
ssible to che

viz made a bic ;
the situation was

) I said it

out what the

wha!

intentions were toward Uiis person,

not affcct

was cars
exvpre
effers.
ona contra ho prove
capability coyld end up 2s

sedan

are, ny person who was

oh

considered.
and let h
My impression is that
respect

him and would not try to, interfere on h

Jonathan G. H
C/WH/CA

