D_ADAAD
1404-10087-10130) . [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

: SECRET :
a sus SsssEEEEEaSSESTSTEEEIE"
*F HOLMES RUSSELL : iM-788 % =
 CIVEXO- as pire bes INDEX SEARCH AND 201 CONSOLIDATION XECYEST
Gon ceeeieniaeo : : TUBE CTS DATE @ SEP wi 1P7F1 CONTROL NO.
SECRET E2 IMPDET CL BY 004108 08 SEP 677
TO TUBE ROOM DATE INITIALS REQUESTER'S NOTES
' ipsanoex ena ae 2 : Gq Li NO. OF REFERENCES ORDERED pans eecuese REFERS TO
\ neovesren .
{ fies a ae . SEARCH INSTRUCTIONS (TO IP/IN)
REQUESTER
| eves bw-6 GA-20
have booed
Sono references we tec
detached and 9T c450
you fram TP/ARD,
SUBJECT OF INDEX SEARCH
SURNAME GIVEN NAMES
MARTINO John
SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE SEARCHED 201 NO-(1F KNOWN
201-
‘AKA, ALIASES OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, CP ership, 1. S-
affiliations, ete.)
SEX] DATE OF BIRTH - [PLACE OF BIRTH CITIZENSHIP [RESIDENCE
RESULTS OF 1P/INDEX SEARCH INSTRUCTIONS FOR: REQUESTERS
NO RECORDS IDENTIFIABLE WITH SUBJECT THERE ARE OTHER INDICES THAT YOU SHOULD CONSIDER.

SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR CHECKLIST OF OTHER INDICES AND
201 CONSOLIDATION INSTRUCTIONS.

SUBNAME NOT FOUND IN FILES

TO ORDER DOCUMENTS:

INDEX RECORDS ATTACHED - 1. REVIEW INDEX RECORDS.
£ 2+ DRAW GREEN DIAGONAL LINE ACROSS ITEMS YOU DO
THERE ARE_______ RECORDS OF WHICH SW NOT WANT.
ARE FNU*S WHICH MAY PERTAIN TO THE SUBJECT OF Eile etnleetaniedd nee
THIS SEARCH; THESE MAY BE REVIEWED IN IP/IN.
184003. ee TO EDIT THE INDEX RECORDS
COMMENTS. a

AFTER RECEIPT OF THE DOCUMENTS, EDIT THE INDEX RECORD
ACCORDING TO DOI 70-19,
1. TO DESTROY INDEX RECORD: MARK THE INDEX RECORD WITH

Monten De ano CITE THE REASON
2. TO MAKE CORRECTIONS/AODITIONS® ENTER. THE CHANGES OM
Ef THE INDEX RECORD IN GREEN INK.
le) pi | yronnano to iereus vin your weconos oFFicer
WeautsT wal /oATEsTINE

201 CONSOLIDATION
INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

I77SEP-2 AN 28 020372 bint

RM 362 est pasysous SECRET 2, IMPDET CL. BY: a (ara 38)

\



-° SECRET asia 7

(See DOI 70-20).

201 CONSOLIDATION INSTRUCTIONS

1.° IF SUBJECT HAS A 201 FILE, SEND THIS FORM TO IP/RMS WITH THE INDEX RECORDS
MARKED IN GREEN TO REFLECT THE CONSOLIDATION ACTION TAKEN. (Documents
should then be placed in the 201, by the Researcher).

2. WHEN SUBJECT HAS NO 201 FILE, BUT MEETS THE REQUIREMENT FOR OPENING A 201
FILE, SEND THIS FORM TO IP/RMS WITH:

A. A COMPLETED FORM 831.

B. ALL PERTINENT DOCUMENTS, EXTRACTS, AND PROPERLY EDITED RECORDS FOR
CONSOLIDATION OF THE FILE BY 1P/RMS.

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

CHECKLIST OF OTHER INDICES: REQUESTER SHOULD ALSO CONSIDER TRACING THE FOLLOWING SOURCES WHICH ARE NOT

SEARCHED BY_IP/INDEX (SEE NAME TRACE HANDBOOK).
DATE DATE
REQUESTED] RECEIVED

SOURCE

DATE
RECEIVED

DATE
SOURCE REQUESTED

DO AREA DESKS CENTRAL REFERENCE SERVICE

LP/ARCHIVES

COMINT NAME CHECK
SB _BIOGRAPHICS BRANCH

OFFICE OF SECURITY
OFFICE OF MEDICAL SERVICES

DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION

TRAVEL PROGRAMS
NAME OF BEARER FILE/OTS
CIA APPLICANTS FILE/OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

DEFENSE CENTRAL INDEX
CENTRAL REGISTRY - EUROPE

SPECIAL ACTIVITIES GROUP-SS/IL (WFTU)
COVER AND COMMERCIAL STAFF

RESERVE OFFICERS FILE
INTERAGENCY SOURCE REG.
‘oh OPERATIONS: CAPTURED GERMAN DOCUMENTS:

E/G PROGRAM
WH SUBVERSIVES PROGRAM

Fer
1 @ NS

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SECRET SERVICE

DRUG ENFORCEMENT AGENCY

REMARKS

8S INA S- 132 110!
SECRET /



13-00000

- ~O49-126-033-—- - :
AH ANT: i€- CIE -UFGA—1-4343-———— CED
“—O2HARS4 —~ SEB APERTURE CARDS ATTACHES



. Review INDEX RECORDS.
ORAW GREEN DIAGONAL LINE ACROSB: teas

‘THERE - Al RECORDS ‘OF. win = MOT wast.

nine,
AME FNU'S WATCH -WAY-PERTAIN TO THE SUBJECT OFT | 9! roman To reseutés
THIS SEARCH: THESE MAYBE REVIEWED. IN-IP/IN.. ">,

APTER RECEIPT OF THE DOCUMENTS ;° ED
ACCORDING TO DOr 70-19. .
4 t+ To OESTROY INDEX RECORD: MARK THE INDEX RECORD WITH
‘A GREEN D, AND CITE THE REASON.
TO MAKE CORRECT IORS/ADDIT/ONS: eure tHe chances on



tino, J. (Capt)
‘ f

code rane - "Gpierofeen" ~"Joghua" .

can
(Perig-So-Op-23
cnrd # 305



13-00000

