A {2022 aes UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF ca: y i A)
- > = = Es q

a rn Ft errr reer eree,

i AES arty sccm
| “fans ca TW 912356
eee ae eereeet ater eeeeeeceaeee _ _7OP:@b19462 May 73. i! re) 36000 a

B® & - a917e32 May 73 Smack ‘

AD
ce Gen Sse : avs x05 on
POy olercied Saag oie oo

\0

aveat(e: Sa)
Rery RECTOR 2v9Ke6 bE

“a, e May ss5ue OF Le Fraano was aRTtoLE oN¢hARCEL
SRANCISC: - MS RMICM 700K PLACE ON 7 MAY IN PARIS AND
WHICH WILL HE CUNTINUELD ON 11 HAY, TRIAL TAKING PLACE
“BECAUSE FHiNCTSCE MAS BOOUGH™ DEFAMATION PROCEEDINGS
AGASNS™ FO IME MAGAZINE, Walch AcCuseD WiM OF | ONE
OF MGRAND BONNETS DE La BROWER. ul Laveleds

2. STER aS°NESS COO THe DEFENSE I TIME MAGAZ® NEY the Lil af

P Whee ( FAa nessee :
WAS AMERICAN LAWYEO HERBERT STKIN, WHO HAS, BEEN Autrhess 4

EOS TRE CRUSSTUTION IN NUMEROUS TRIALS OF MAFIA LEADERS
LN THE S"ETES AND WHO CLAIMS 79 HAVE HAD NARCOTICS DEALINGS

TN L967 WITH MARCEL F, TRIN ALSO CLAIMED TO WORK FOR

GKHERALD AS WELL AS FCW THe B:. SEVERAL FORMER BNDD
AGENTS WHO WERE ACTIVE IN FRANCE, WERE AT HAND TO TESTIFY
AGAINS™ FWANGISCI, DEFENSE MANTED TO INTRODUCE INFO FROM
cours Courses vercea ROGATOSRE WHICH» FOR PROCEDURAL

: “SECRET

Agee i
RECORD COPY 20/-- 9O2.804 Z

8MYAVI73



‘
{CABLE SEC Orssem By.
>

PERSON. UNIT NOTED. . Bie

_AABY INCE COMY ISSUED $40! 140 eee BY AL

“OnGE @2-02

4 78

REASONS, WAS VOT FeQNITTED wy THE COURT,

3, EMBASSY NARCOTICS COURDINATOR MR. CUSTER
IF ma INTERESTED STATION CAN SEND ~~

ATTENDED [ME TRI

CLIPPINGS, :

Me TILES 282-902 804; INDEX DOUMERET. E-2 :Mppet

IEE eR S Tet

ugh {

