100-1038),
rd "7

(2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
+ a

24

Pani
few 1-z2

viv

Use Oniy
. Do.Not Reproduce —

(SOS0EN IN SLAWTS, REMAMNIRG IFO BELAASABLE TO LIAISON.)

1, ROUPESVEENM: //HASIR HAS REITERATED HIS EBLUCTANCE TO”
MAGE ANY RADED LARGE-SCALE REDUCTION OF KOTPTIAM TOG? STRING
Dy TENN OFF KE AS TEDICATED SUG UFTGRAAVALS WAY BE -ORDSGKY aCPURS

KED OF SRAR.//

PODS ORID CORT CONTR SAT THE CGEMER OF EGYPTIAS Fan-
SORCSL 28 TESEW COULD £3 EEZSCED TO AEoUT 21,000 ny 1 zarDany,
UR MSDICASED THAT OOTETIAN SumEEers oT samy woTE=ar: somo ==
ACES? 29,C00, EERSTE IUDICIGE SHAT STAUGGYH WAY HOW BE AnouT
29,600-S0,000, TGEDR 1S EW EO MDICATION oF CHANGE “ON CHRTENT

BeRaeIOR PGLICY.//
Gye

AuTaENTieaTiNG

e
stressing, ofsieia [ secaar i eines
RERODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING. OFFICE 15 PRONISITED.



PERE SECOF UGS FE soos; cass sebSE LE Pe ee rer oT ATS

“PGASU RGALS CONVERTED THAT 4 GAPE OF UaAeas BRL
PESCIP Tas & exe Oo TRIBAL terceeeecT.. nk said mar ie wis
SUCGRSTED sSrcCTIon wes CagaiED OOF OS THOLT SOG THC. Te
PCR OF OLMDRARAL COULD EB AOCHAAATED, rE CLALESD some UCCHOA
19 S28 COoPAIGS.TO OI TRIGA. CoDTORT FCA 4. FOL TICAL GETULBERNT
SUT O18 CXSCRIPTIGN GP TER CSSSY POLITICAL OF {VATION SUGGESTS THAT.
8B COkD Kor MAECT AEy Cotee SoLcTiaN./, ;

//UAGLE TEDICATED AGASEERSS THAT DELAY 1m WITHDRAVIGO PaoN
YESEH THREATENS AIS ESLATIONS Wits THE U8. 1 ADWITTED THAT A
CVesca UF UB ATD FOULD DISLOCATE Bayt /: Bo.aiow¢ DEVEL opEaNT
SOT CAIGTAISED TRAP HE 043 RRADY TO VAcE 8uc4 AN EVENTUALITY Am.
PA5D GE BAD CONSIDSISD ALIBRLATIVES TO THR AID./;

f}. GOROCCO - ALGBRIA: OS THE BsB of THs. eeTinG oF
KING HASSAN AND PESSIDERT GSN EMLLA fe BAMAKO OOTY STIL: APPEARED
INPLARIELA AD IUTEUT ON ETELDING JP TAMIA FORCES,

GRIRHIGHES WHICH RAVE OCCURED NORTH OF TINDOUF SUGGEST THAT
EDEOCCAN FOREES AEE FOIGED TO CRIED THAT POTENTIALLY RICH MIBIEC
ANZA BOTEVRR UNLIRELY THAT BASBAX GOULD oMDER MIS TROOPB TO SRIZE
‘TINDCUF THILR OB ia KEprivo VrTe oo TLL



no ” pace THREE
TALKS YALL BOROCCANS MIGHT BOVE TO assent TUEIK. CONTROL OVER THE
2, DAKOMBY: THRBAT O7. 7 sBaiccs OxPEL R HAS LESSENED
FOLLOWING ‘THE TRADE UNIGNIGTS‘ RELUCTANT ACCEPTANCE OF EX-PRESIDENT
MAGA'S PARTICIPATICN. IK THE POUR-EAN PROVISZONAL GOVERNERNT HEADED

By anay CHER oy parr Mage”

LABOR LEADERS HAVE SUSPENDED THE CENBRAL, STRIER SHICH FORCED

EAGA'S ERSIGNATION VROM THE PESSIDENCY. UESII7E THEIR UNHAPPINESS
AT EAGA'S ERTAIWING A E012 ‘Iu THE GOVSENEENT, THEY APTRAR TO BB

SOLLIVIED BY SOSLO'S ASSULFTICS CP. THE TOP POSITICN, :

“S$ ROW. COVRENEGAT GILL OORABLY ROP OEVIATE QIGAIFICANTLY
POOH THR PEESOGINANTLY, PRO-CEGESIN GRIENTATION OF MAGA EDOIE.
SOULO,A VETERAN OF EARY YRAR-S@UVICE IN FERNTA AREY 28 REPUTED
TO 8B A CONSERVATIVE. JUSTIN ANCADEGBE wid MAY EKERGR AS THR
SGT IKVLUBNTIAL OF THREE CIVILIAN MEMDEAS OF 1: GOVBRUERNT IN
TUE PAST HAS GUDPONTED DAHGIHY’G TIES UIT FRANCE. -



PAGE FOUR ‘

THR BOMB B1L.1ARi LASOR LEADANS GA: SET DRBAND MAGA'B
CONPLZTE OURTER IY DBOFFED A STRONG REACTION CAN PROBABLY RE
EXFSCUID PROM NORTON TRITZSEIN Wi SUPPORT MAGA

‘THR UPHEAVAL IM DAHOISY WILL PROBABLY RAGTSN DAUIGR OF
EGSRRATS, PARIS-ORIGNTED AVEO-RALADASY U¥ich IT 18 LIKELY To
CONPCUER THE CONPUSIGN AND HUSTTANCY AMOXG UAM SILDZRS WHICH
ESSULTED VROM THE ESVOLUT.Ce ry CoM” | GEAZZAVILLE) LAST AUGUST
T? SAY CLS0 STIMULATE LACOR LRADEAS iN OTWER UAM OTATSS TO GEEK
GERATER POLITICAL IKFLUEECE (Cour,

52. PARIGTAN-INDIA // GUTUAL RECR IAT ONS ERICSON PAKISTAN
45D INDIA ADE NICERASING TENSIONS ALONG CRADS-PIFR LIWR IN KASHUIR //
//3ACA COVSEAGENT ROW CLAIES TO HAVE FLEM INTTLLICISCR THAT
‘TOR OTHRR 18 GTEREGTRENAby 178 PORES ALGZO TEE LIEB, UN OBSERVERS
IM ACSA CUSCKING TURSE Eevdads BUT RO ASEZSSKENT VET AVAILADIE ae
//Y2EORTS SUGGEST PAXIGTANI MILITARY LEADERS AGS AGAIN GIVING
Guts COUSIUEEATION TO LIDITRO PARADELITARY ACTION AGAINST INDIAN-
EELD PORTION OF KASRMIR © SGCH EXPORTS CARROT BR SHTISELY

DISCOUNTED IN VIEW OF FRAR IN KARACHY THAT TIER 19 AGAINST PAKISTAN

—=——

seoavimateme erricces = [eee

Beccaving oF ve0e [MESSE] seteraricatine
i! { orn a

8-8-5-B-2T [incase soit
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED
he >



PacE F &

ON 1HE KASIMIR .SSUE AND E> VIEW CR E+) wemitbmabe- SEX I 'DTAa-

KASHMIR PROPOSALS YOR FLULEM 4 iEVtti., 9 BO" Dian OxKTiun ur

men errseer operat at

Wl ABW oe
// BYOB REGIME ‘conrae Re cauT “ous ZECA SE OF POSSIBLE POL! SICAL
COYSEQUENCES AND ITS “ONCERN THAT LOCAL CLAS) ES S§.utT BSCaLaTE
INTO BROADER MILITARY CONFRONTATION iN WHIC} INDIA WOULD ENJC’ A
MILITARY SLPER:ORIT\ //

4. ISRABL-SYRIA STAUT GF PALL PLOW.NG BY iSRAELIS IN
SENSITIVE ACRAS OF DSOILITARIZED 26KE HAS aRCEBASSD PECSPECTS OF
TROUBLE WITH SYRIA UW TRuCR SUPREVTSTON CRGANIZATIGN HAS YZT TO
GET Tet THO COVESPERNTS TO ACHTE ON TR DERCISE LOCATION OF 4 LIKE
S@PARATING ACRAS OF PeaViCcS JEWISH AND ARAD CULTIVATION ~<Somw

FOTR IN DIR 78509 PARA CHE SURSTITUTS FOLLCTING FOR
FIRST SisThy tons 4k PESSIDENT PAS. ESPURTEDLY SAID
EGYPTIAN TEOGFS wnoct Gee Soremrora BQUALED A DIVISION WILL cz
CENT TO 4LcEatA,/,
ERD CF mcsscs

(2 Cfbhe saeasraninalanercysi te eos hte

RELEAGING OFfictA LTET laded-sealitaictentatha AUTMERTICATING®
Te (Q enanny

(reas Sen oo
babi lias by beaniael ee THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROH BITED Copy No

+a

