104-10183-10276| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

viet eeRny

Aeee nails 3, f RETURN TO CIA

‘ fe Pa . Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

“ MEWORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/SA/€I ”
VIA - : Chief, WH/PO/A

SUBJECT : AMMUG/1 Operation
Target Analysis and Non-surfac@ble Leads

c 1. Reference is made to your semorandum date 16 June 1964
requesting Target Analysis Summary Reports on leads to be
exploited and lists of those leads which the Branch desires
not to be surfaced to the Intelligence community.

2. Attached are separate lists for each appropriate
Central American and Caribbean country detailing nationals
of each country whose names have been mentioned or otherwise
cropped up during the debriefing of AMMUG/1. Wi/2 considers,
at thie time, that it is not feasible nor desirable to surface
any of theso leads to the intelligence community, pending a
final determination as to the feasibility of pureuring some
of these leads for operational exploitation. Those leada
which are determined to be of no operational potential will be
released to your office on a continuing basie for surfacing

to appropriate agencies,

3. Attached also are seven completed Target Analysis
Summary Reports on:

a) Francisco Javior MBLLA Pena
7b) Jaime DURAN Hernando
uc) Socrates Isaias PEGUSRO Sehuroer
_ 4) Jean Norbert MONTERO
par @) Mauricio de la SELVA Venegas

f) Roque DALTON Garcia


-2-

&) Noel GUERRZRO Santiago

These individuals represent immediate targets on whou we
have already undertaken action, We anticipate that certain
selected other individuals from the lists cited in
Paragraph one above will becone targets, and accordingly,
are in’ the process of examining and investigating thes
As these individuals are culled through, Target Analysis
Summary Reports shall be prepared and forwarded to your
office.

Gohn uw. Whitten
c/wH/2 © »)

Attachments:
Target Analysis Summary Reports
AMMUG/1 Leads Not to be Disseminated

Distribution:
O& 1 = C/iH/sA/CI (w/atts)
1 = WH/PD/A (w/atts) ©
3 = WH/2 (w/atts)

Ypl


\ :
Dowinican Republic Leads Mot to be Disseminated AKO,
Francisco Javier AiILA Pena
Jaime DURAN Hercando— \

Socrates Isaiss PIGUEW Sehuroer

““Hpidio RULZ (this is an alias of *TTBI20N" - tno nane still not’ known)

David Onelio ZSPAILLAT Canpos
Francisco Zleuterio RAMS Pesuero
Francisco Ziizarde RAMCS Pecuero
Teresa Inocencia Z5PAILLAT Hernandez

“Jose Bienvenido CUSIRA Kouel

Heetor Aucusto CABAL. Ortesa

Leopoldo Arioste GRULION Huis
Joss CAI3A Lacrono

Silvano LOA Vicente

Tender Zenoni 52116 Uelnonve

Ana Rercedes SSPIUAL da Castro
Baldeniro WASTA) Garcia

Marcelino GRULLOM Jimenez

Deaito ALZO Geran

Worge BOTW) Fernando: :
Rafael Francisco TAVeNAS josario
Hoyo TOYTIS Vargas

Cayetano Armando iODUIGJE! Bel rads



Antonio Enilio Jose I3A Conde

x ‘4 “simon ‘BOLIVAR :
Artare Rafael SSPAILLAT dodrigues
Carmen B, HERMABDEZ de Faxaa
Ernesto LOPEZ Molina
Maximo LOPE Moline



3

1 Haws  X

Beye Aveee

21 Salvador Leads Not to be Disseainated AMW:00/1 Operation ~
Si Stinador Leads Not to be Disseainatod MEDAL Operation

Roberto BRCIAN Marin Gusedceieed undtace prtaruieG omy

peaive cory RK !

S

Haul Fornando 250082 Nelendes Guiaxncd naxrace

~ Carlos Alberto FLORES Hernander Gurxiia Wanrace TKAIeHE cory X '
~tuan Remon_LOZAN Resales AUAS o£ ReBcere Bewcrawe MA mepe ,

Carlos MARTTI Ortis DEAD - Gurectiin wnetaed TRAWIAC OULy ;

7 Ricardo Augusto MAXTDISZ Vanegas Gusex seta WAR rae JkAmwive soey :

‘7 Tvan Danilo aODRIOUS Leon Cureenia LeNeEace PRAIOING. cacy X

OM “Uisandro RAKIRZ Solis Gureciea WAKFIRE penieiae cory X

“Pedro fODRIGUEZ Guewwiea LAR FAKE PRAINING oury

~ Ciro Arturo RUT! Torres Gu ren iLid cineca IMA eae rn)

Veter tamal SARCHEZ Bonilla Gureccd wAREAME pyenranie euey

Patus CONTE Moline. P3210¢ of ete Gawener Bower
7 arturo ALPAHO Fuentes Questa Linekane PRAwIVG aney
~ Raul Antonio VARMAS “Gurcie eicca Lene Fane PEAmaiws cacy
(‘ hodres Antonio VELASWE: Guewelien wan rawe naa meies Caey

Roque DALTON Garcia

TA fanvol Antonio cALéna oe eee eee teenie ene vena e
FA Jose Alberto CARRILIO Calderon Ancwe te pug yp ee laceat)
~~" sose Salvator sosalos Cumann aan ine Taine puly

TA Bheardo ASTID Aieas aceur 2 (eee. “11 cee rar Witt BABIAS

~" Prancisco OUPAN Cardang Qui /LA Lea ene etree Ww erty

Car

eee

/ Freddy Guerra Gubwnicen Lene tace fetiwrey oaey

+ Avsando LOPHZ Maatial Givsexica LeAAFAe Ee 4eere.ve lu y
“dose Antonio GARCIA Eivera Cus Lk LEAK FANE TARA One


pd

<“ pedro SAMTACHIZ Castro Gvemereen eaernrel
“7 Roem MARTI. Guardado Gow FWA 1E*

2 agul Concopeion Morales wo Xtevew 1% AwmeG ot

— Jose MANCIA Martine? GuFentun ARE ARE
prpivsoual 4AM ES Rican nappetiae
7 MAE USto ay ALK IAM Or
~ Jesus Antonio PAZ Guerniras Wear FAKE
7 Rita UMTREZ  GUER KILLA Ltd se

Pedro A2:YalLo volsar— Auras oF Jesus

TA AGENT z

ana Leticia BiLAZA (BARTAGAT) Quiros Guene

€ raul Castollenos 7 "" Rapier)
aE thy PAB MIE S
Bs.

fa) LC “pa fay? 722 Ctat
AGE
iy (get cele eeIETSCEEp 2 Bele ne

iaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeel carta aati pe fate

°:
SS | aq GerseDe ,

FAKE TAA taras
Anu Maw s 7

[Jom 205

\

fae

PALAIS
bao JRAIMINE UOTE
Comer areeTawe
pear’

Awtesio aa

y eed euract
Jexin try 6h Say.

seme ge Foe

\ :
paAineG wtey x

A ARI ARE PRAIA ouey

x erssaser

eacy

wuey

ioley

rs .

wrt

ren aera. PAE euey x

<r

pomuc 1 ageriet

case


Guatemala Leads Hot to be Dissovinated ALOG/L Operation
tenals Teacs Sot to re Se a efi

Antonio JOH Harcos e :
Y gallo chenend storra G/M i
& Pranetsco CiMZ Pizueroa G/l~ .

Y Vietor Kamel CUZLLAR Carransa G/“~
(2 Bornarde DIZ Mendes Coy ou 7
1 aolando REARS: Hornandez G/M ‘
v Marco Antonio LEONT Aguilar Su Aumel-} Aviv
agar Roberto 1080 Dubna Gv Ammuc 4 Heys

VY Jono Aquiles . PORALES cj Armes-/ Kuews
Manuel Jooue ORTSDA Paz
Ly Angel PALENCIA Sancnes G/w covey i
Ricardo Arturo WUZIAN (pseudo: Alberto sANTUS ielpar} ;
' Jacobo ARBIN/ Ouzmen
Hario BARRLANTOS
Manuel CALICH
Garaen 20462030 Soa
Fornando SOSA Yol
Harca Antonio YON Sosa
Lais Augusto TURCIOS Lina i
Francisco AMANO Granados
Alicia HOYA do Amado
Josa Hamel FORTOWY
Victor Manuel GUTIZt#:! Garbin
Taabel iOHL Rosore da Sosa
us SECRET
Nolida TURCIOS

Jose 2c



Eaiti Leads Sot to be Disseminated

Jorge Norbert MONTERO
Rene DEPESTRS
(Uncnown) *PITTH*

geen]

parsers

Aa yo fh Operation


Honduras Leads Not_to be Diaseninated

Maglio REN Espinal
Mario 9054 Havarro
Luis Randolfo BANzGAS

AHMUG/L Operation


Hicararua Leads Not to bo Dissasinated

" Woel GUERAI20 Santiago
Professor: TOURzS (probably -delberto TORRS Zspinoza)

Silvio MATORGA (or MALLORCA)
Ernesto MARTINEZ :
German PALACHI Baca

Efrain SANCHSZ

Carlos A. TEND Kontiel
Marvin CASTRO

Felix MONTERREY Dobil

Elicio Dtharinto GONZALEZ Koreno
Alojandro ALZIKIA Barmuder
Juan Jose GANCIA Lorio

ALL AUTO

Bayardo ALTANINAW) Lozos
Ivan BACA

Alejandro BatUaDz!

Anibal LORI Garcia et
Snriqae KARSNOD

Orlando QUAY? Juintona
Rolando Quayt

Monterrey 2:5

Rodolfo ROM. Gomes

Strain SAM Sancho

MG,

ration


, . cH

: :
i
: : |
i
Panama Leads ‘ot to be Disseainated eeu Operation |
i
i
‘Thelna KIO eect
Jorge TURLER i
(Unkaom) “Luts Sonrisa Case" - 2 mle guitarists i
: 1
: {
i }
| i
' t
i I
| 1
!
| 1
\
;



Dowinican epublic

sHanget Analysis sumary Report ANUC/L Operation
SUBJECT: Francisco Javier NELLA Pena aka Francisco Lavier MELIA Done

wh

aka "Pichi®

Significance of Target

a)

»)

-e)

Guben Intelligence Service Connection

AGLIA has been identified as a Singleton Cuban Intelligence
Service Agent in the Dominican Republic, trained as a frogsan,
and aleo in S/d and ciprers, iis exact mission on behalf of
the CIS is not know,

Communist Party Affiliation

Subject 1s a member of the Castroist revolutionary Asrupacion
Folitica Catorce de Junio (APCJ ~ Ith of June Political Group).
The APCS fa not a Communist Party per se3 however, its present,
dominant leaders are Narxist-Cosmnist In their political
direction, Tho APJ 1s presmmed penetrated by ectual Caczunista,
and is imgyn to receive coral and material eupport from Cubs.

Information “hich Could be Sbtelned

1, Ais exact mission on behalf of the Cutan Intelligence Service.
what information fs he required to furnish to the Jervice?
The reason for this informtion.

2, ‘hat persons will he uso to acquire this information? will
they all be unvitting?

3. what ia his aract role aa a Crogan? (for aras caches,
demolition etc..)

&. Information on bis accomodation address in France. Additional
information on his accomodation address in Janaice,-

S. Inforsation on the relationship between Cubs and the A2CJ
and plans for tho Dominican Republic.

6, Information on other Cuban 15 agents known to ain.

7. Doybling (see [il for nore datails).


IL, Gurrent Location

Hermanos Miralles Sic. 5, Hadrid, Spain (since February 196L, when

! he went there fron Cuba. In Hadrid; he was Joined by his Dosinican
girl-friend, Monara 3\LADDi Decillo, whoa he married there. eitner

: _ has yet returned to tho iouinican Republic.) His last know address

H in the Dominican Republic is Avenida Independencia Bo, 55, Sento Dasingo.

. TIT. Vulnerabilities (for recruitaent or defection)

‘ None xnown, The only information on X. was acquired in April 1363
shen be trunsited Mexico enroute to Cuba. At that tine NcLiA became
quite upset when’ "salio a cuba” (left for Cuba) was staaged in his
passzort. Accordingly, vith this beim: the only past inforestion on
Subject, we would be starting from "scratch".

Ty. Paaily and ielatives

a) vifer Alomara SalAi

illo, Doainiecan citizen (no information)

, Uaninican citizen (no inforsation)

Father: Lats

Motor: 1 (nes wakrewn) de HELLA, Dominican citizen (no inforaation)

(Tas Sante Soain-o Station is presently comiuctin; an investi ation
of his relatives)

b) Hone <nowm to bo in tue United States.
Y.  Biosraghte

Pate of Birth: @3 Pabruary 1237
Place of Birth: 3anto losin,
Citiseasnipr eniatcan sepublic

fanguaves: Native jpanisn (only lancaaze capability knom to us at

this tine)

Physical Description: <* Lo" tall
1:9 pounds
dlac. nalr (cat short - tut not crew-cut)
dar brow eyss
svartny conpleston

rotorraht (s available at tre Jes:

Other pertinent Tatar Nick sald be deserined as ‘pretty". we ass
no mustacng and doos mot snave.

Honinican 2ezublic



VI. Gperational Leads and Lines to mbject for recruitment or Defection

oe
a) (2DTA/9 - Lives in saxe apartsent duilding area as Subject.
Has furnished sose inforsation oa Subject and bis zirl-friend,
wnich he obtained throuz; nornal contacts.

i
i
i
i
|

06
* ») Gatne. DUNAN Hernando] Operational Lead only (see separate
tarzet sheet). Ye is close to HiL{A and also could lesd us to
a@ still unifentified CI3 azent "TIBUAN" wo used DURAN as an :
unwitting courier for tne dolivery of microfila to Cuba. '

F ©) GRbspr = Althoazh not a leader of the APCJ, no.nas good access
jl to the APCJ's extremist "circle", He has been used witn oxtronely :
good results for inforzation on other Cuban tarzeta of interest. i

VII. valuation:

a) As vas stated above, NELLA La completely nev to us. However,
the Station Is currently conductinz an investication of HEiLA
in an effort to determine ais vulnerability for recruitsent/defection.

b) ‘ita the present roling Oosinican Triusvirate, Subject could be
arrested {f no casa to socurity notice, not only in nis position
witn tre CIS but also if he becane involved in any subversi :
Comsanist activities. In the event he is arrested be undoubtedly i
would be deported.



Deainttan Republic -. at
Target Analysis Jumary Report ROG, tien

SUBJECT: Jaime OURAN Yernando axa Jaime SUXAN Hornandes ata ‘Jinxy”

I. Significance of Target
a) Connection with Cuban Intellizence Service

Subject 13 not @ Cuban Intelligence Service agent, bat did
receivo guerrilla training in Cuba,

b) Copmnnist Party Affiliation

DURAM 1m Secretary-eneral of tne pro-Castro Arrupacioa olitica
de Catorce Junio (APCJ - llth of Juno Movenent) in the Dominican
Republic, and is a meaber of tnat faction of the aPCd favoring
the training of its sezbers to direct the future of a socialist
governcont.

ec) Subject is a close friend of Francisco Javier MELLA feua, an
Adontified Cuban {ntalligence Service Avant in the Doxinican
Ropublic, Subsect was also used as an "unvitting” courier by
a still unidentified Cuben 15 ajent "TIAUIOW" in the Joxinican
Bapublic, Subject unwittingly carried to Cuba for "TIRCUN"
in weptexber 1343, a eatch-boo containing alerofila.

da) Utility - Fenotration of the 1. June & plana & intentions
of the vubans va DR.

1. Current Location
Believed to bo In Guba. jias buen thore since Septerber 1> 3.
Last «nom Doninican Republic address: capaillat 722, santa Soningo,
Dorinican Kepublic.

THI, Vulnerabilities (for recrultownt or dofection)
Mone ynom. (Also see VIE - evaluation)

TY. Faatly and ielatives

a) Wife + Gloria ACHYELO da Quran, Doninican citizen (no iavoreation)
Mo otuer relatives ‘“nown.

b) No known relatives in the U.S.A.



ve Biographic Data

date of Birth: 17 June 1933
Place of Birth Jarabatoa, Douinicun Republic
Citizonshivs Joeinican Kepudlic

\ Lanmmacea edility: Native Spanish (only ability <nom to us at tils tine)
Mrysical description: - (requesting frou the otation)
Photographt Is available at the Des: : 7 !

YI. Gperational Leads and Lines to jubject for Recruitment or Defection :

OZ e
CaPTHA? - Lives in the cane residential section as DURAT. Bas
fumtiahed some information on Subject, which he obtaina throuzh :
| normal contacts.

ie +n 502.
- Capenss = Has provided munerous reports on DUUAS!s activities
: ‘thin the APCJ.

iz,

/L = Has provided trief informtion oa Subject's activities
thin the APCJ and his travel to Cuba. :

u VII, Evaluation

In that 4e presuno that KAN is a aarc-core Communist and at oresent
hava scant infomation for a tarzet assessnont, Losodiate prossects
for recruitscnt aro virtually nill. cequirenents can be levicd on
o. D32/1 since hg ie a controlled source: ‘ormation could be
élicited fron i/1? and possibly fros (3355/1. Aa devalozed,
leads frow forezoln; could bo followed up on, but, aa indicated
above, wo vill bo startinz at the cottom of the ladder on WRAY as an
operational ‘target. j



. Cut Dominican Republic

Tarcet analysis Swasary Report HfL Operation

if
i

a)
i
|

SUBJECT: Socrates Isaias PEO Schvorer alias Heloon BARcT Disla axa “Pupo"

I.  Sicnifieance of Target
! In that Subject lives in Cuba he could be extrencly valuable to
i BH/SA and a/2/Domiaican Republic.

a) Comection with Cuban Intelligence Service
; PSQUERD is the APCS (Agrupacton Politica Catorce de Junio -
i Lith af duno Political Jroup) representative in Cuba acting
as focal point between the APC) ani the Cuban Intellixence
Service (DQI).

>} Commnist Party Affiliation

APLS representative in Cuda, Subject nas been reported as a
necber of tno pro-Castro faction of the ArcJ since lysl wen
he vas extled ta Curacao.

Ee c) Inforration shich Subject Could Furnish

1. mbjec t could furnish information on the relationsnip
betwoon the Cuban Intellicence service ard tae ALJ. H

2, Information on the AMC) aa a party, plans, neubers otc,

3. Information on Cuban Intelli-ence = vice personnel known

to hia.

foasible operations’ of the Cutan Intollizence Service
tne Doaini¢aa Republic.

vossible information on nattara of interost to JH/54 aitnin Cuba.

& Roublin; ag a penetration of the Cuban Intellicense Servico
and the arc. :

7. Inforeation on Torintcans dein: trained in Cuba, not only in

guerrilla trainins, but ss a ents,


ve

Corrent Location :

Lives in Habana, Cuba (address unxnowm). In Cuba be goes ty the
name of Nolson BAR:T,

Fulosrabilitios (for recruitaent or defection)

Hone ‘now. No information on his activities since 1751 is cnown,

Fazily and Relatives |

a) Rife .- Gisela SSiCION do Pexuero, danghtor of formor doninican i
Conezl in Curacao. i

b) Children ~ one daughter (nase and ace uninown), ant one son
(naze urcnown) born in Habana, Cubs in Deceabar 19/3.

c) Father - Isaies P3IGUER) Perez (doccaned)
20 (no additions] information)

4) Mother ~ Tulia (nee unznom) de ?:
@) Brother ~ Nelson Rason P:fUiN) Sehuorer (deccased)

£) Sisters ~ Sobeya 0, F:MUsi0 Suuourer and Navia 2. PuWi Semoror
(zo additional inforsatian)

2) No relatives xnown to bo in tae Untted -tates,

Blogragic Data

date of Birtht 1!. January 1927
Place of Birth San bedro de Hacoris, Deainican sepublic
(MOTS: hon travelling uses Dominican passport issued 23 July 1753
in the nave of telson ALizi Tisla, date andi place of birtat
23 January 1939, Doainican Repudlic; occupation: student)
Citkzenship: Doninican Xepudlic 7 possibly chanzed to Cubaa.
Languazo ability: ative sh; otaers not known.
etysteal Description: 5!
159 pouads
oromes:inned
blac< cyes
wears eye-Lasses
nears moustache

vhotorcraph {3 available of hin ant aleo the real felson SAR:T Olsla

Other pertinent data: Leborstory Teennician


\ |

YI. Ogarational_ Leads and wines to Subject for Recraitment or Defection

we have several sources reportin: on activities of the APCJ, its
membors etc. within the dominican Republic’ Capo and/or

: OLGHPTI/L? could be used, tp elicit information on UE) through
fT thoir nermal contacts’: .OSS/1 1s being used at this tine to
report on otner Cuban targets.

VEL. gvalustion

‘hile there is no inforaation ea hand to indicate Subject is
approachable, the fact that be le ia Cuba, xnow to AX-UG/l - whom
aight approach him - and tas beon identified to us he bocones of

: operational interest. Obviously our objective is to continze our

i intorest and collect what inforastion we sicnt, avalting ths day for

fi his exit from Cuba, At that tise 2ore definitive action miznt be
considered. ‘iis imortance as a source of infornation on inside

i‘ Cuba and that country's tntontion and cazabllities on tre Ooninican

i‘ Remudlic cannot cs ‘discounted and mocit our continued alertness to
nig activities and whereabouts,



‘Target Analysie Summary Report if AMMUG/1 Operation

SUBJECT: Roque DALTON Garcia

I. Significance of Target

DALTON is a recruited agent of the Cuban DGI. He has been

trained in guerrilla warfare, a/v, radio transmission,

and radio reception AMWUG/1 claims that Bubject isa :

menber of tho Centra: Committee of the PCES. AMMUG/1 :
5 characterized Subject as having excellent contacts within i

the DGI in Cuba. Subject is in contact with Mauricio 1

" de la Selva Venegas, the Salvadoran intermediary, in

Yexico City. In view of the above, Subject could be

expected to furnish considerable information on both the

PCES in El Salvador and his activities for the DGI.

IJ. Current Location

Subject was deported from El Salvador to Mexico in late
January 1964. On 16 June 1954 Subject vas spotted by the
Salvadoran National Police in San Salvador, and is now

under surveillance, Exact address will be obtained by

the San Salvadoran Station. F

Tn Yulnerabilit les

AMMUG/1 lists Subject a5 his lending candidate for recrult-
pent by us. His ressoning on this ig that Subject is not

» highly motivated, has # weakness for women and the easy
life, and a generally weak nature. AMKUG/1 says that
Subject is very intelligent, but never showed a real desire
to learn during his Cuban training. Subject was given
600 dollars to purchase a radio receiver upon his return
from Cuba, but he apparently spent the money on himself.

IV. Family and Relatives

Pather (deceased) wae U.S. citizen. One of Subject’s three
brothers fought for tae U.S. in Okinawa. A sister,
Margarita, 1a Nexican citizen who now 18 in Cubaas a

student.


fp

-2-

Cours
V. Biographic Data

DOB: 14 May 1935
PoB: San Salvador, El Salvador
Nationality: Salvadoran
Language Ability: Native Spanish; others not known
Paysical Description; Height 1.68 meters; long thin
tact black eyes; two gold teech; thinlipped; black
hair parted on left side.
Photo Available: Yes |

rational Leads and Lines to Subject for Recruitment
oF tection ends and Lines eee

24 oe,

Subject ove’ porsonaily by AMMCG-1 and by (JQGRIN-1,
recently of(San Salvador Station] Subject

is presently wnder surveillance by the National Police

in San Salvador (Station has!
ho might be used ag a lead into Subject).

VII.Evaluation

From AMMUG-1l's assessxent of Subject, based on personal
knowledge and observation, it would appear that Subject
would not be a too difficult target to hit. However,
some of his personal characteristics which have made him
a handling problem for the DOI would presumably meke him
@ handling problea for us. His failure to perforn for
the DGI since October 1963 might mitigate against our

use of hin which would Ancluce, presuzably, resumption of
his s/w channel. Nonetheless, AMKUG-1's clain that Subject
is a meber of the Central Cowaittee of the PCES (news to
us) makes him an operutional target for that renson alone.



Tarzot Analysis sumary Report

SUBJECT

I.

If.

Joan Norbert §

Haiti

ERO

Significance of Target

a) Comection «ita Cuban Intellizence Service

At tnis tine Subject is not an avent of the Cuban Intelligence
Service. fie 19 currently in Cuba see<ing assistance fron the
DGI for the training of Haitians in guerrille warfare activities
for an eventual thrust ageinst “siti to cust President

Francois iuVaLIea. 7

bv) Communist Party affiliation

Secrotary-Qeneral of the Haitian Liberation Pront, a newly forned
party, witn tie ultiaate ain of merying ino two comunist parties
of Haiti, /Tensitive inforation available at the veax indicates
that this party is Moscow influenced.7

) Infornation shich Jubject Could Furnish

1

2.

3.

Le

Ss.

Subject could provide valuable infornation on the Haitian ”
Liberation Front, 1.e., its easders, plans, status vith the
Uos2/Cuba ete.

Information on the USG%/Cuba position with respect to Haiti.

Inforasilen on U332/Cuba influeace and penetrations of
Haitian exile circles.

Inforwation on Cuban'y relationsiip with tresident
Francois DVAUI. iH

Information on Haitians now in Cubs snd/or the USSR,

Qurreat Location

-ks of April 1°4L he vas living at the Sotel Calina in “abana, Cuba.

iis permanent residence is believed to te in Santo Donin.o, ‘doninican
Repuhlic wera ne hag been in extie.



pl

Iu.

we

-2-

Vulnerabilities {for recruitaent or cafection)

Mone -nom. 48 fs stroacly anti-0UVALIc%. In taat many deitian Pus
exile circles sm .conednat daw on tro United States as a result

of the unsuceess21 Leatexber 17.3 invasion of siti, it 1s possible
that Subfect serely turned to tha "left" for assistanco in overthrowing
TOTALIER, It ts sovever quite feasible tnat he would cooperate wita

te United Staves if he felt we vere ta:in, an enti-O0VALLER stand.
Faxily and Xeletives
Nene <nown. .

Biosrachic Data

ate of Birthr Gnmown
Place of Birth: iwiti (?)) 9 -
Citizenshivt raivian

Language ab Native Frenca or Creoles very little Spanish
Paysieal descriztion: .. fect tall

1°9 pounds

wears azustacho

Hesro
Fhotovrash is to* availavle
Otner pertine=

fect for Recruitsent or dJofectioa

Qgerat tonal I4oeds and Lines
ot
a) Coilsc:. : zy
») Gadhia. -
+

0, a7
©) Car no 1s only in a pocition to aace
discreet irias recardin. SoNTow.
o i ar
4) (pin. 4 ko ta only in @ position to mace
Giscreot wtciriea rerandin:
uatio: i

on naa teen sloaned frox the assets citod in I above
slity to reeruitwent Little can be dorm,
probable tat
rosident

a} Until infos
revardin= 4 STotu!ls vulnera:
Sovover. #4 waa sointed out in [if above, tt 13 hit.
oubsect rertly turned to Cuba for assistance in overturodin:
PAVALIEL af raitt.



bd) Subject is not subject to arrest when he returns to the
Dotinican Republic, unless af course, his activities with
the Cutana becone mom, In any ‘event be definitely vould
not retum to Haiti, as he would {mmodiately be impriscnod
and ost probably tortarod and sillod.


Target Analysis Suaaary Report

\

ALY G/L Operation

SUBJECT: Noel GUFREELO Santiago (2301-81510) 1

1.

ur.

Significance of Target

GUSIE RRO is presently in Xexico and is “intermediary”
betwoen Coban IS and the FLN in Nicaragua. His Cuban
Intel pseudo is Andres Macartaga, AXaUG-1 saw hia in
Hexico in March 1364 regarding funds which the DGI had
provided the FLY. According to AWSUG-1 GULRKERO ie
involved in "Mijos ce la Tempestad™ ich also involves
three or four other [CI agents. AKWX-1 also reported
that GUERRERO is in trouble with the FLY whicn claims

he spent soney improperly, ‘The FLN bes uo confidence

in bin and considers hia cowardly and lacking ia
fighting spirit. by other sources he has been described
ag one of the main Comunista Central Axcrica. se
wes in Cuba in 1939 to get Cubes aid froqthe revolutionary
movement acainst Nicaragua. if wes formerly a wewver
of the Communist Party in Uexico. ve vas a cell leader
in Corinto and suvisor to the .tevador's Union.

&

Current Location

Be 19 presently in Nexico, tie was a political exile

in Honduraa in 1953. He has travelled extensively
throughout Central /merica aud miy bave been clancestinely
in Niceragua in July 1962.

Wilnerabilities (for recruiteent or defection)

AMMUG-1: GUERREAG ie in trouble vith the FLN which claiag
he spent mouey iaproperly, The Fici hae no confidence

in his, and considers hia cowardly and lacking 1a
fighting spirit. Asong AVEGV-1 docuresnts 1a a criticue
of tho abortive tucursion im Nicaragua ia July 1053 by
Silvio Mayorga and Orlando (vant Cuintana which Disses
GUFPAFRO for its failure. GUERFiv's owa account adaite
certain mistakes and tries to justify others. ucwever,

{t must be borne in sind thst GHERRERO is a long tine



2

Cormunist, anti-Somoza revolutionsry.

Tv. Family and relatives

Wife: Ofelia Chacon
cia Brother: i@. Eloy GUERRERO Santiago, suspected
Comauniat, says Noel is Comaunist. Eloy is anti-
Sonoza, has spent tine in jail.
Father: Jose £. GUERRERO Castillo, resident of Leon -
(DOI: 1955)

Vv. Personalia 7 -

DOB: 12 April 1914

POs: Leon, Nicaragua

Nationality: Nicaraguan

Laoguages; Span: and inglish

Religion: Profeescs none

Zducation; 2 courses first year lev

Photo: Available in Bio,raphic Register

Physics) description; 5'S', grey bair, dark brovn
eyua, complexton triguenodaro (light brunette).'

oe

Vi. Onerational Leads anu Lines to Subject for secruttecat
or _verectl ~ :

AWG-1 knows hin personally, was ia contact vith his
in Kexico Lo usrch 1054.

VIL. Evaluation

.. In 21942 or 1947 (reported both ways) CUERSYKO was expelled
froa the wexican Communist Party (Pa!) sccording to
another somber of the PCr (Liguan) who was & recruitment
candicete (but dropoed), and who said that CUEREFRU aight
then be agenatle to recruitment. Azoareatly no attempt as
nade to recruit hin. le hag been recorded throughout
years since ab an-active Comunist revolutionary sud
was exiled from Hicaragua for reyolutivnary activities
fa 195%, Also in-1959 ne went to Cine and was active
there in presariag for the revoluticnar; movenest to 2
Latin America. so apparently eas werkicg for Cuban
at the time of th? alorflve revolutionary attemnt against
Nicaragua in 1963, as a document provided by AMMUG-1



MOTT:

3+

written by Madariaga (GUERRIPO'S patedo) atteapts to
point out reasons for its fatlure. fnotber cogent
written by Silvio kayorgs and Orlando Guant blamed
“andres” (GUERRERO) for ite fotlure. GUERWTO, Lowever,
must still be in the good graces of the Ceban 15, if
he is an agent in the “Hijos de la Teapestad” aod
serves as “interseciary” to the FLY, or remnants which
may ba reorganizing. It seens bichly enlikely that
GUERRERO would be receptive to either recruitment or
defection. AlMUG~1 knows him personally and met with
his in Eexico in Merch 1964, It would apposr that
AMsUC-1 could furnish kore information about his
contact with GUEXRFRO which would be helpful in an
aseessnent of GIERRKRO.

‘There is a report thot GUERRERO wae in vice!
ciandeatinely in 1962. He would undoubtecly be
arrested chould be return there and bis presence
Giscovorec by the Nicaropuans.

‘Thin is vot a complete target analysis and should not

bo used ag euch.

