# 104-10071-10205

## Page 1

1AдІ

104-10071-1020:

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REPORT COVER BIENT

UFO- 9000

ON No SN

22 Databra 2006

GEPOOTO

PROJECT

PIMALER A 5k2

St a Monia too

DOURCE CRYPY

VOAMBER- 6

FIELD DIOTRIDUTION

AOQNCY

86520

2

•Banto Domingo •

8 • Port-au-Princo

> To ouT pouch

DURPIGISINTAL DATA

DYVOUR JMPALA PBRUMEN

PROCEBBIRA ACTION

COVCA 6M88T

CHARACO DEA IMHOGHINO

OPO DATA ROPOATRO OBPARATALY

CO DIOOGGINATION

parate

TOCO DISDGMINATION

EXTRA• ABRACY

Stato

Customs

USCG

emigre identified by

got paras.

from Masterrar, and para. 5 fron Eugene L. MAXIMILIEN.

G-P: ANOT SOUrCO RAUL ARANGO de la Noval, from OLEA.

RIDE

Please

Inder for fiold:

Nang:

POGULIEGRO, AnGelmito

San

DOB

?

Caban

Ra Subi'e

Crane

reference

to:

201-042660 (Rolando MASFERRER ROjag)

201-239298 (Manuol RAY Rivero)

203-270456 (Jean Baptiate GEORGES)

201-820655

(Antonio IMBERT Barreras)

Group 28 Excluded from

Astonatio Doungrading

and Declandifloation

22-9-38

TeaM

$ 1467

NORTH COPY

100-9-16

COPY

:(-80).

8655

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

a Fairty rellabia.

Di MOs usualty rollabia

(ppilad to untastad os inutilatenty

GRADITA DE COUAOLI AL COMEITOT FOlIODIS

Er Usually rallabla

Bo esuroea ot trustrul honesty or layolly, rairdlaca or thate comparanos).

Fi Rallability cannos de ludgen

(59S S02T0E1

AFPRAIRAL OP CONTINY, 1I Confrmed by alher Indepandent end rallablo caureas de probadty trua a presiory trua a Doubatul la Probanty

1355a

en cannor Do juanza

CONTRATIAL

FERRION DISSEN

REPORT NO.

COUNTRY,

Na 181/ Casa

SUBJECT

Loe en rater

Joan

Pro aster

Los

94208

DATE OF REPORTAS ORTObEr 100d

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF

24 Bapterhar • 1 Cetober 1008

INFO.

PLACE & COLERO B8A800,

Miami

G7D-0070

DATE ACO 18-10 CINELER

1008)

FERIO BO UNEVALUATESS INTORMATION, DOURCE ORADINGO ARO DEPINITIVA. APPRAIDAL ON CONTENT 1O TENTAYIVE

gOURCEs

Escen ol Paragrapio & - 88

ferser latl soples espional tno

mistaino relationo sea offiatalo of latin Arario eutries.

FIn lA O tranod sportar. Mis inforation las Laon soldable

01- 04200

• 8 ar 100

in Mani, Florida, a aloca sososlato ot

Fojas, ferner Caban sonates, sald that Pethar

8.

clam that en cooto enacing

that tuar logo onl

Ausen, forar ta

taic bio le acanansa.

1201-279453

en 8e Cantano de

Bola, hie beodas.

am kmn in Mio to mate armano tor do fac

onal for (aportin 6a 682

Mon the so Balta

Eniero diled that the val bad ality ben seguirsa.

Masternar cald that Feter C

atalmed de

2a1 los rifies and antenaule

Ameo giren ta dia by laen

feo the laitian corlarion.

mont tan 19t ln Mienl. Masforo dies anle the folloving elela;

Menteser!

rolles anas

$-10 r18200,

201-3206521

. (Canoras) Anteale

of tin Beninioas Reyabile,

ad proleed te

Consoguenty, haarerar had ssat mas

to the Deniniom Rapabile.

LAL

Digast

1OMS

---

## Page 3

nele Cie

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Ipara

Cotolde

FERRIOS

DI8S21

REPORT NO.

DATE OF REPORTI& REPOGON 2000

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE Of

24 Boptentar - 1 Detobar 1906

INFO.

nsam

0F2 0000

FLACE &

DATE ACO (8010

CoraLer 1040)

TIO IA URGVAGUATODI INFORMATION. BOURGO GRADINOS ARI DUPINITIVE. AFPRAIBAL OP CONTUNT IO TETATIVEL

SOURCE

Sonas of Paragrapho & - d

Forser Latin Anopiecn diplent mo

santano relatteno uti oliiolalo of lutin merlam emerios.

do a tralod spomor. Ula inienatim haa buon rallello

Д.

Coralme

8o

allegro, forner Che Denator tha 10 60009694

4201-28012

e Die bavi

hah bean in lami do maio arrisono 102 ta palesesa era

Basta? siicd that the mesed bul airenty bean comune.

11 43121

a conaitten, noledinhamad tol rifleo and autosatte

ser tho Balties soriutiea.

masterrer the egu

mat un sot in Nani. Manfuror nico aio th follering aldine

"-la rifles.

end bancolne..lon 000 ma.

20-320655

Ded prealead

to sho Donindoen Lepable.

ISTIAL

7026805

DISSEM

DESTRIBUTION

Estra da esells

Amarasit

REPRODUSTION IS BEST OTAIMABLE

FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED

1. tole

AS COPY

160-4-14

---

## Page 4

14-00000

COUTIDETTLAL

COSTROLLSD DISSEA

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-₴-

UFO -8600

approhanded by Denision authorition despito the foot that

the nan had dealared that the arzo vera for cale to tha

Influence with the government of President Joaquin Basagues.

Pathar Boorgas will be the loader of the Haitian "inourreo-

tien."

Maoforrer oald that in siow of the arost of his calacary

tha Denialoan Repubile ho vaa returning to How York for a feu

daya intid all was cala again..

He added that the holp of Inbar?

ead ostrain other frionds In the Danialean Rapabile bag baing

giran without the approval of tha balaguer govermant.

On 2 Cotobas 1986 Eugene L. Marimilion, Haitian Consul Canoral

In hionh, oald that lather deerjoo' violt 8o Miand sao to make

a payasat for var nate siale and

rascals parahased by Masterrar.

Mariallion oold that Pathar Coorgen had raceivod 42,000 from

Paul Maglolre, former Prosident of Haiti, about tro weake

carthur and 41,000 fros Canada.

Mariallion said ha did not

know who sent the nonay fron Canado.

Roarse of tha inforation la paragrapha l - 1: A nonber of a

moch of canen saiger trained in she taahniquas of inforeation

callestion. The group has provided usaful reperto alage 19ß1.

' 6. In late Sortantor Manual Olea, Cuban cagra, onid that kassorro

nad brought bia frOn YOU TONY tO take par In on OparatieI

againes the haltion sgine.

Olea nald that In Now York Masferrer

had told him that ha (oload wonld bo anior of oparations.

Acuard

Ing to Olen, Aerica naupaparan vero with than fros tha tina

they loft in York until thay arrived in Miend, taking notion

plotures all the tine. He renarid that oins arriving in Mieal

ho had found insferrare artivition very orrange.

No sided that

ho shought nothing dolinite van going to take place, and that

ho had dooldad that ho vould not take part in the procondingo.

Olen said that man ho had asked lnsferrar for tens guns for

prentic hooting hasterrer had offored hin cono rifles but had

told sin that he coald ham to buy hia own bullets.

He added

shat soot of tha guna Menferrar had sara ascleno.

FIRST,

olas cald, la hed nosleed that a man he knou enly as Papito"

mas clerals anscalated with knoferrar and aleo torted for the

then "Papito" had lourned that Manferrar

chinning of infar lie coup so the soninion topaio

ba had amiatoly obtainod a Dominion vica.

in that no had spant abou

and three orlors.

ho added that ho had had an argusont with

Manferror becauss the plan van not a serious matter.

mad morned to lew fort and dil not plan to cose

REPRODI

THOM APERTURE CARD SUBM

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Osa 08 Masferror'e noa uno vent to 8he Danialean Berablle

caryingia call quantity el as and anssaltion bos

apprehaned by bansniean authorition coupsto the fast that

CAO DON ANd COOLATE Thai Ti &т ц ! md d tho

allitary.

Influnos with thn government of Presidant Joaquin Balagus.

Pather Georgen will be the loader of the Halilan "incurrea-

810n."

Mastorer oold that in vien of the arreet of hio euionary in

the Deninlean Repully he was returning

:8o lew York for a few

days entil all us cain again..

to anded that the help of Inbarg

8.

on & Coroner 1900 Eugene l. Marinilion, Haitian Censul Caneral

in Minal, said tha?

Fathor Goorga' vioit to Mioni woo to make

a pageant for var nateriale and vassalu purchased by Masterrar.

Mariallien said that Pather Gaorges had received 82,000 fros

Paul Magloir, Pornor Procluant of Haltl, about ive weake

earles and 17 000 fria Canada. Manialllen sald he did not

know the sant the nonay from Canada.

Souses of the information la paragraphs 8 - 0:

A namber of a

Beep of Cuba enigros trained

In tho tochniquas of Inforuation

collertion. The gramp has provided unaful reporte since 1962.

6.

Ia Late SOptoaber HanueL Cloa, Cuten cags.

said that

Masterrar

had brought him fron Nay York

to take part in an operation

agalast the Haltion rigina.

Ola daid that in Now fert Knoterror

had sold hin that ha (Oloal coald Do chias of operations.

ing to olas, Inrican nampaperan vora with then frea the tina

they left how lork untll they arrivod in Mians, saring sotion

plotures all the tina." lo romarkod that vinso

arriving in Miant

ho had found Masterrore activition vary otrange.

He added that

La thought nothing definite une going to

toke placs, and that

ha had daelded that he would not take part in the procedings.

Olen said that when ho had naked Moferrer for sona

prostion shooting Masteror had offored his sore rifles but had

told hin that ho rould have to buy his oun bulleta.

He addad

that noat of the duna Hasterrar had vera ecolose.

Further,

Olen cald, ha hed notleed that a man he knew only

as Papito"

and closals associnted with Hanforrer and aleo sorked for the

Baltion Consul in Kiani.

Whon "Papito" had learned that hasferrer

me thinking ol Eranglering his group so the Dominion Republl

so had lendiatoly obtained a Dominican visa

8.. Olen cesplainod that hautorer hed given hia enly 0100 la Miani,

and that ho hed spont about 0150 for room and board for hingel!

and thrse ophory.

Ho addod that ho had had an argument with

Hanforter because the plan was nor a serious natter.

Olon'o party had returned to lor

York and dis not plan to come

back to Hiani.

RaPRODUSTION IS

BEST SBTAINABLS

PROM ARE

AN CASE SUBMITTED

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 6

14-00000

• 1

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO FOREION DISSEM

- 8-

UF -8589

In January 1906 Madlerger told a group of

i stan that Father ere was one of

CAL 800

contributing financlal support to a plan for invading

Haiti.

See TDCSDS-316/00225-66.

Source Comment.

Masferrer was probably exaggerating. Ho

may have equipment for 250 men.

Field Commente

3. Maslorer has previouoly claimed that he had the support

of the Dominican Government.

Another source has reported

on plane

for making a flla

ourporting to show offorta

Duvalier.

80o UFG -0580.

of Haitiano

to overthrow President

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO FOREIGN

---

