104-10162- 10089

onc. “Teennedy |. 7
: yen, ©
VATE = ebro 3s 9h; .

From. OREGOE Ssiete prmecten

Cons:

INFO =

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

” ARVK- &~. _quassiren message © Dy Hee

RUDD. fea, SMMAVE, SHEROM, EOLIN AIR FORCE BASE,
ws GULTEMAIA, PANAMA

BELL 15

00/?, COP, ADDP/A, DPD 4, wH 3, Skc2

GPIM MADD, RAND, WAVE 'O ROUTINE EM. ZGLI, GUAT, pact a

SMZIP AMEAZE SECUR IMCLEAR LADKIM FAGLIK ae 24219 |
ESM: EAD C20, (G7 LoTie u
BELL 1203 (OT 8302)"%

2. FOR RAND: CONDUR REF A REQUEST RE ANBIDOE-2 AND SEVEN TEAM MEMBERS

PRR REF B, A-) AND TEAM WILL PROCEED MADDYIK VIA ES-5h-13),,28@ TRANSFER TO t

FS-5U-135 POR RETURN TO IMPIG ON 9 FEBLMUST BE MADE SECURELY, fet i
2. FOR MADD: A-1 AND TEAM WILL BE JOINED ON 235 BY AMPANIC-7 AND HIS

SwO MAN TEAC POR RETURN TO FIG. A-7 AND TEAM MUST BE COMPARTMERTED IW CREW

ABBA TO PREVENT A-1 S8@ AND A-7 TEAMS SEEING EACH OTHER. BELL AMHAZE SUGGESTS

KUBARK REP THOMPSON (4) WITH A-7 TEAM BE USEO EMROUTE FIO TO INSURE COMPARTEENTAT TON.

i

3. OTHER TRADNEES WOW AT MADD FOR RETURN FIG WILL BE SUBJECT OF SEPARATE

MSG RE PROBABLE USE OF ES-51)-151, ON 10 FEB FOR THIS PURPOSE. RETURN TO A
: 7 ackground
4. FOR WAVE: OW ABRIVAL 135 FIG, PLS INSURE SECUR SEPARATE EANDLING Ba ReD uce i

AMID SAFE SITES FOR A-1 AND A-7 TEAMS. PER RGF B, A=] WILL PROCEED HQS WHILE
‘TEAM REMAINS WAVE SAFE SITE. PLS ARRANGE APPROPRIATE HANDLING A-7 TEAM TO
‘FLY A-7 AMD TEAM AND JACKSON (a) TO BQS ASAP FOLLOWING SEPARATE DISPATCH A-1.

acceasine orricee AUrmenticating officer

REPRODUCTION BY O' . Copy Mo.

|
| |
ee | | |
|


pat > —_CLASSIFIED_ MESSAGE am

DIRECTOR

San Ur TY

Into cre oe

5. ODURGE HAS BEEN ADVISED SP ON 135 PAX AS FOLLOMS,

Aq) TEAM i :
A-l = SP 531 RV.L, = SP 738
W.SA. = SP 735° . TLC. - SP 739 :

J.B.C.8.-SP_ 736
JRS.L.- SP 737
A-7 TEAM:
AT ~ sPyzer 12
3.0-R.C.- SP TAX 673
A.OK.V. = SP mE 123
(=nD oF MESSAGz)

j WH COMENT: sIDEYTIFIED MEMBERS OF AMBIDIY-1 TEAM.
‘*#AUTHORIZATION TO RETURN AMBISOY~1 TO <MBELL VIA JMFIG.

o3.
aS/oop_(ore-R (ry part)

R-w.tletaly, *
cooveimerus ornietes "5-8 OM

autmentic

f . REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. (Copy No.

