# 104-10408-10167

## Page 1

40067

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

5.- B.

1941

SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

CO"F: CILA-8

INFO: ODPD-D, VR, FILE, CACCS, C/CIL, IPEPS/EG=Z,

I/EUR-6,

oLE,

(31/P)

C/IAD/ICA C/IAD/DO, CHINTIFLA CADGIONS, CAPES, CAPISAPGLA CAPM,

78 1545033

PAGE OO1

TOT: 0922562 NOV 78

DIRECTOR 324426

SECRET

STIFF

092255Z DIPECTOR 324426

TO:

PRICRITY (MADRID INFO MEXICO CITY.

RYBAT AKULE KDAFGHAN

PEFS:

MIDRID 51913 15<1466

6 .

1.

APPRECIATE REF A.

RE PARA ONE, THERE ARE NO PARENT COMPANY

APPPOYALS REGLIRED FOR MADRID STATION TO CONTACT KDAFGHAN- 1(K- 12.

2.

IN

VIEY OF

BELIEVE DECISION WHETHER KO1 SHOULD

INFORM ALDRIC DIRECTOR

BERLITZ OF HSCA REQUEST. IS ONE SEST LEFT TO

DISCRETICY OF K-I.

IN ORDER TO ASSIST KOI IN MAKING HIS DECISION,\

REGUEST MADRID INFORM KOI OF THE ADVERSE REACTION TO THE PUBLICITY

SILTION MAY HIS!

FOF INTERVIEW TO BE CONDUCTED IN U.S. RATHER

THAN

IN EUROPE.

ADVISE HIS REACTIDN AND ALSO IF HE ANTICIPATES WHETHER HE FORESEES

ANY PROSLEM IN TAKING LEAVE.

RE PARA 2 OF REF L, BELIEVE IT

FOR ALL CONCERNED IF

STATION CAN INDUCE X-I TO COME TO

STITES FOR INTERVIEN.

ASSURE K-1 THAT USG WILL PAY ALL EXPENSES

INCURMINE OF TRIP. IF KIT BALKS AT HOLDING

ONCE PLORE MITH HSCA POSSIBLES A DE WET NE ELSE ERE IN EUROPE.

ILL EXPLORE TO RICE PASSCALE A NOME NETSEE EUREPE

HOS RECORDS FAIL REFLECT K-I'S PRESENT CITIZENSHIP. WOULD

APPRECIATE IF MADRIDTCAN CLARIFY THIS POINT WITH K-I.

FOR YOUP BACKGROUND

INFORMATION, (BADRID) 16898 (28 JULY 1972) REPORTED THAT STATION PLANNED

HAVE THE KDAFGHÄNS AFPLY FOR CITIZENSHIP AFTER ARRIVAL ON CUBAN

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECPET

STAFF

781544033

TOT:

PAGE

0922562

002

NOY 78

DIRECTOR 324426

PASSPORT

FÜRTHER THIT ACCORDING

7085

LATINS ARE ABLE TO

iPPLY FOR CITIZEISHIP LFTEP COMPLETIO:. OF THO YELRS RESIDENCE IN

MY MADRIO) 17ZI9 111 SEPT

197229

STATION PEPORTED THAT XO! MID

CONTACT AN ESSENT OUT SHES SPERISH RESIDENCE ESTA SLES-ED,

WHICH WOULD BE LPPPOXIGITELY THREE MONTHS AFTER HIS ARRIVAL IN SPAII.

MOST RECENT INFORMATICA IN MES FILES ON KEI'S CITEZENSMIP IS MADRID

18039 85 JANUARY 1975) MAICH REPORTED THATURE

OFINION THAT THERE AS

NO PROSLEM IN DOCUMENTING K-I AS "STATELESS"

CN. THE BASIS HE "LOST HIS MUTE DOCUTENTS, AND THAT KOL SHOULD

PEPORT TO THE SU

PLEASE KEEP MOS AND MEXICO CITY, ADVISED YOUR CONTACT MITH

: *=1.

5.

FILE: 201-0283248.

EZ IMPDET.>

ORIG:

AC/LAIMGSS CLEHMAN X-122Z, GREY

(SHEPANEK): OLE COCHECA, (BRECKINPIDGED; DEPLAINR

P LAÁSTE CINFO? AUTH: CLAO CHARPEND; PELE

DCIEURA

'CL BY 007255.<

END

OF

MESSAGE

SECRET

---

