# 104-10183-10331

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10183-10331

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

+91880811680.-

п-від то росе но. .

CLASSIFIED MESSLEE

SECRET

PERSONI NAIT NOTIPIES

PROMIJ:T

CELS

EL

29500Bp2

dura

I RID COPY

D.......

...O...e

SECRET 8315422 CITE BANT 141VE 2554

DISECTOR

INFE JAWAVE, CARACAS 16-17

8 JaBi: 73441

FADER DYVOUR PERUMEN

OTHER TOPICS MENTIONED IY DISCUSGIONS RETWEEN CEANS

AND ALIM REPS, AND NOT INCLUDED IN REFERENCE DUE OPERATIOVAL

CONTEXT, WERE:

A LEICHI BELLATIASE CUBANS TOLD DOMINICANS TO REVIEN

ALL THE "COMPANEROS WHO VERE IN CUZA MITH RICHE AN TU BE

CAREFIL WITM AND VIGILAR TELLE] THEY ADD THAI

/MELLA RUST YOVE AND AVOID YEETING WITH THE "TIFO" ANYMORE.

÷:..

HESE SENTENCE SAYS, "IMPORTANTE: AJUSTICIATIENTO DE VICTOR".

VICTOR ALSO REFERRED TO AS AGENT OS CIA AND TRAITOR.

# DOMINICANS ALSO DISCUSS "JOYPO FRANCES WITY CUSANS.

COSAYS SAY THAT IMEY BELIEVE GROUP IS COLLASCRATINE WITH FRENCH

AND YANKEES & CIAY BECAUSE OF THE EASE WITH WHICH TYEY GET

THINNE DONZA

CUBANS ADE THAT INESE PROFLE (GRUPE FEANCES GOT

IN TOON WITH MAIL THROUGH LUIS SEMAS AND FIDE BE

C. CUBANS SAY THEY ADE INVESTICATINS CONIACT IHAT SENDO

(NOT FURIHER IDENTIFIED MADE A FEW CHIRS AGO IN HER YORK

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

. .

PAGE Z SANGO DOVINDO ESGA SECREI

S&CRS)

VITH TEYSERS MAIM (VIDON. MINAYA, CUBANS ARS VERY VORRIED

ABOUT PROBLEM OT GINAO AND UNO TO SURSTITUTE FOR MIM IR RSOIJI9.

NO INDICAZION THAT IHIS GENAO ICENTIFIABLE VITM LUIS BERAA

ESPAILLAT®

E• TOS DIRECIDÃ SUGGISI YOU YAY VISH RELAY REFERINÇE-TO

JAUAVE.

S. FOR JIVAVES REFEREXCE VAS LISTINO AND DISCRIPTIDN 0P

DOCUTENTE CONFISCATED FROY

SECRET

* Jurnte; OT ESSINL TUS iuD CiEsNeIES ofWm

ANLASLE TO SOPNN PONM ETCUND, DEUA RNSI QREE

ANd FeMA CUNFASISTES APSES.

06

24

FUCRE

980

---

