f04-10213-10023) (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 OO 2
2 a

: : BOHICT FON -——— Te

ae cen :

Lee Harvey CSWALD first cane to DeemmmpasSSs attenticn '

upon receipt of AIRGRAM no. 1301, dated 31 October 1959, from the

hy it was stated that

United States Embassy in Moscow, in w

OSWALD had appeared at the Embassy on 51 October to renounce his

American citizenship. He stated that he had applied in Moscow

for Soviet citizenship after his arrival in the Soviet Union on

15 October. The first public reference to OSWALD appeared in the

Washington Post of 1 Novenber 1959,

chat
On 2 November 1959, the FBI liaison officer requestedga ...
cTA's

trace be run on Lee Harvey OSWALD in the <@aaEpEs central hold- _
T

ings. @pP response on 4 November was negative. e
Because of the counterintelligence implications of

OSWALD's action, the Counter Intelligence Staff opened an offi-

cial file on Lee Harvey OSWALD to accommodate biographic infor-

mation developed by the Agency in response to a Department of
State inquiry, dated 25 October 1960, on a list of american “de-
fectors in Soviet Bloc countries. OSWALD's name was one 16 Of those|”
appearing on the list. CIA forwarded an interim reply on 3
‘November 1960; a final reply on 21 Novenber 1960. Until early
October 1963, the contents of the OSWALD file held by CIA consis-
ted entirely of press clippings and “reports disseminated by the”

7

‘Department of State, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the:

Department of the Navy.
ee yer pe

i : On @ October 1963, the CIA Station in Mexico City received;

: wrilaaten Yrot : ry

: information Sven Tetieyteseures, to the effect-that "an Aneri-

5 7 can named Lee OSWALD had contacted the Soviet Embassy in Mexico

sian to the Soviet Embassy guard, Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV, to

whom he said he had visited the Embassy two days earlier, on

; ees City on Tuesday, 1 October 1963. He had spoken in halting Russ_
i

| Saturday, 28 September. He asked whether there had been a reply -
i

to a telegram that the Consuly with whom he had spoken, but whose

: mame he could not recall, had promised to send to Washington.

|



OBYEDKOV had attensted to establish the “identity of the Consul

with whoa OSWALD had talked: if it had. ‘been a dark perso :

it had probably been [valeriy Viadiairovich) XOSTIXON . , OBYEDKOV it

cing a Soviet consular personnel, assured ‘OSWALD

telegran had been sent to 0 Washington Dut nO. answer aad Deen

a ceived” : Scere carnenTnGTERE OSES

i
|
|

: - a . : oe d

| sworn» caries 1963. A ‘Eile check on 19 Oct ober’ by “igen

|

personnel in’ Washington revealed the possibility t that the Lee

| naa defected ‘to | he Soviet Union in 1959. ‘[Conment: 7 For ‘some. un- 4
F my =f explained reason, “OSWALD $ statement that he had been to the Soviet!

a Embassy two days before on 28 September 1963 had not, been included |

“ehiete sucnerie

oa oplntrgtek sone


” eee

‘a nenorandua on 16 aetober 1363

[sone Endassy and identiried hinseli as Tee OSWALD. This. office :

{ deterained that OSWALD had been at the Soviet ebay on. ey = epten

We have no seco infornation with regard to thi
ii A EYAAYORE Yn 5 ux tel
es ce that "Our Headquarters _ “infoined

Legal Attache “in Mexico city.” = This seabiegra uF

Disseminated",” “reporting that Lee OSWALD had contacted "Soviet Vice 7

$d
} Consul Valeriy QBxostixov, of the Soviet Embassy, Mexico Citys.”
| Mexico, on September 28, 1963. The Legal Attache indicated that, hej

was keine dt this matter with CIA and was -_atteapti



Between 10 October and 22 Novenber 1963, there.

ve Theresa yvinr some of the details of her own personal back-

ground - she-was an admitted leftist sympathizer and had formerly



j from the description of ‘OSWALD, she was sure it’ was the sane a.

jostatn was denied a Cuban transit Visa because he did not yet have.

SS
arte. ja Soviet visa, and he was told to get the Soviet visa first, but it

Twas Noted that this, would require about four aonths. She chad asked
oa. }
te , the caban Consul hiaself, Eusebio AZCUE, to Talk to oa tnd. they | H

Sere when AZCUE urged 0S z 3 : é

“HERNANDEZ Armas; eerie on. the detaltapat unk incepiteial 6:

- {Silvia DURAN by. the Mexican’ authorities. The Cuban Govertinent “also =

November, t! e ay a ter ui WTS Te ease, Cuban HEE :

SER DONT COS AUSFLERHEROANDET 3855 t

is. S. Tapert.

rcation between

27 September. - In mid-afternoon, Silvi


ake at = Soviet Consulate.

“Riso sre TnaTeate:



: versation between o1 one of the “Soviets and the Anerican.

-f-

the Cuban Consulate could grant him a visa and arrange

immigration details if the concession of a Soviet visa we:

assured,

b. 27 September. Pursuant to her inquiry, Silvia DURAN
received a confirmation from the Soviet Enbassy that the i
American had been to the USSR installation. He had shown
them a letter from the Soviet Consulate in Washington indi-:
cating that he had been long awaiting a visa for himself
and his wife to go to the USSR. No answer had come from |
Washington; however, the waiting period was sometimes four
or five months. The American also had a letter attesting -

that he was a member of a pro-Cuban organization but he had

claimed that the Cubans would not give him a visa unless he

had already received a Russian visa. - peer cgiecenstian
Although the American was still at the Cuban Consulate)

Silvia DURAN repeated that she could not give himaa transit!

visa unless a Soviet visa was forthcoming, notwithstanding

i
!
the American's wish to go to Cuba to wait there for his i
Soviet visa. According to DURAN, the American knew no one :

i

in Cuba and she intended to make an apprcpriate annotation |

_om the American!s card. The Soviet official echoed her

!
Statement that the American was not known. cf |
i

c. 28 September. Silvia DURAN was again visited at ,

the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City by the American seeking a —~

Cuban transit visa. Mrs. DURAN contacted at least two Rens).

bers of the ‘Soviet Enbassy and facilitated a direct con-

Speaking in poor Russian, the American “stated that he ‘alroué
ready had been to the Soviet Consulate and had ‘left an ad- :

“ dress. THe Soviet official replied that he was aware of
” that. The American suggested that he had not known his

address then, and he had gone to the Cuban Embassy to ask

for the address, because they bad it. The American then



‘and give them ‘the Y address. : i u
a. 1 October.. In mid-1 morning | an unidentified individua

speaking broken Russian, _ contacted the Soviet Military .

” Attache in Mexico City. He said he had been tot
t
bassy the previous Saturday (28 ‘Sepeenbery and had talk

ae ae a wao had said t! they would ecarer crereara 3

rng is tere ena reply ew



cand give “then he address.

cA October... In mid-morning. an unidentified individua’

speaking broken Russian, contacted the Soviet Military |

: i
pafesseataatal bassy the Previous Saturday (28 ‘Septenber and had i Ke ret
: iran |

Zi
i
1

- Ae _ Attache in Mexico City. He said Re haa ‘been to he? E:
i: :
i :
i with 3 ONS U. wao ad Said t ey would send ae egran

a Saar gtOnT —Nad-TheTE -repty?
te tomate tor theinfon -

as. the senior officer of five Soviet Consular 75

There -4



‘mine the possibility of utiliz ing ‘the defector in his ‘cou try of :

origin.

; (Comment: OSWALD's contact with a a knoyn KGB officers, P pagticularty’.
‘s i c

ie “yan officer of the 13th Departnent, srry ererereacocmccer ey iH
7 Moy tot”

OSGi NN sede >!
‘ore sinister reasons than ito 1

robe travel eocunents allowing aya tO pass Heouen Cuba on wis =
Th eserret. crA '



‘| ; . "The evidence indicates that~Lee Harvey
_ > OSWALD was in Mexico City froa 27 Septenbder
fs | ee 1963 through 2 Octcber 1963.-. On October 10,
a : ureau_Headquarters_was_ provided with = _-_f
7 a Ja +. + -& copy .of a CIA cable .which stated that 'Lee
Z Henrv OSWALD’ “{sic] had been in contact with
tne Soviet Enbassy in Mexico City, on Septem-
ber 28, 1965. 36 - -  - te 7 ‘

~ Footnote no. 36: CIA. cable fr0 | Hexigo Station -”

“| + _ to November 22, etre on OSRALD's setivities in, ae

* seeeienien xico City cane from the CIA. On Octobe -
: 1963, the CIA Mexico. Station reported to Head-.. ‘
g - quarters that OSWALD hac been in contact with t i

eee i "the Soviet Embassy. On Uctoter :
E : passed. this information with sone background He iS :

2: The Mexico Station nade a similar
ien—t State 2

A 7 aoeei~
cials in.Mexico.’- Since OSWALD was’ an Anericar.

, disseminating this information a
es. ibility in this matter.” ~

(DIR. 74673] to" the’ Fr Yay, and ‘State, made no ention

=T been in contact warn ‘the’ “Soviet. Enbassy ;

aE received in eres on 9 October 1963.

“1963. This wenorandua ‘aidressed to the jebassador with

_ copies to The Minister, the Counselor for Polltieal Af



Hie at the Sovic Enbassy on 28 Septenber 1963 and had ‘talked with.

ale Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKoV, a nember of the Consular Sec-—

tion, in order to learn if the Soviet. “Eabassy had secesved al

Clssasspeansuanatennann

reply fron Washington concerning his peaues eu -



= < Structive_to note
", that CIA Director John McCONE telephoned

Presid 26, oA and after noting that the

wTRE-CORBTEREE as seen no evidence tha
- the FBI asked the CIA to conduct an investi
4 formatton—on-th
“nation case, but middle- level CIA personnel

“representative in Bern = report (quoted iby
ruli—ia—th re
ative immediately notified ELMARD (P)

- “phasiced the utmost aoe reanee: he ws
jovernment attached to follow-uo of this
: eateers ELMARD received prompt answers . -
te initial eT ts and arran ee to meet

pis for full information on source
rigin of rumor_about five thousand
-dollar Aa eee



eae 28 November: 1963 : Z
Subject: :

. ., The FBI liaison officer (S. PAPICH) offi-

: a i t the F3I requests CIA

~ turn ALVARADO over to Mexican authorities

-. “and that CIA request the Mexican authori-
~. , ties.to interrogate ALVARADO in detail.

Yeports that it uncerstands THEE Tt Ae a r
Mexican authorities have a capability of ~~ : !

etting forth information which had been re-

erro :
iami ‘concerning a report which had been re-~ : . 1

+, ee ived—fron—a—Western—dipionat—allegin
Scdstocetastd] Geese rseHCEt was the. ¢

he assassination of President Kennedy
sult—of—a—plot-prepared_and executed jointly.
-inby the Chinese communists ‘and CASTRO through |

: this diplomat got this information since" it™
Z ‘would help the Bureau to evaluate this informa- _
TR Ton. He Said-that the Bureau would find the





5 ief, 05/SRS
1963; Subject:. Lee Harvey SosiaED

> determine whether any of the listed names, |
addresses or telephone numbers have in the
‘past been connected with the Soviet he

ated 9 January =
fo





i 10. “June. i964”
: sub fect —Lee Harvey Osnatoe

ee ee ation ia

-. pated in a tadio program for 5 loscow, ‘this’

~ fact would have been known to ‘the KGB anda re-


7. te. would: becapgrechaesi tt yor ests question

he infarned ‘9£ OS4ALD!s possession. of the-art

|____adareis and teLephone mbes of ten SENSI



The (FBI) supervisor also testified”
that he never had the opportunity to ques
: . ae . tion 'D'. -On-the morning he arrived* in
Mexican _city #,—the CIA turned 'D' aver to thi
esstetctoeceese| ee Mexican aPotice and denied the supervisor's

o_interrogate 'D'. He’
learned. that the Mexican police had exhaus-
canted Ris atiepati ‘D' and chat he had re-
canted his allegations.” >

al ia
{Seuaed ca
saraees | zi “Footnere seates that "However,



mation that a Novenber 22 Cubana ‘airlines
f ‘ -° ‘flight from Mexico City to Cuba was fh ad -

ene tive arts fro 6797 ate

. E.S.T., awaiting an unidentified Passenger. 1168]

Peto uprmhiay ta

2.
without Pacsine chigugh custons, where he i
would have needed to identify himself by dis-
- playing a passport. he incividual travelle
.to Cuba in the cockpit of the Cubana airlines

ithe passengers. [69]
“68 and 69:

> . Footnote: nos.

Cable from CIA Head _
2

Headquarters asked the ‘Station t

Havana.

and a copy is’ also in the Mexico City Station files. There is no’


‘On Deceaber Si CIA deuidgariees’ ist
Yeceived infornation from the Mexico Station ~~
> —on—a#-Cuban-Anerican.—According—to-Passport————_———
Ceeester sees : Office recorcs, ais file there was checked Hest ‘
——— ———on-_Decenber—4_by-a-representative- of—the————
: * CIA.’ This CIA representative testified that
———he-could -hot-recall—such—a—check—or—the-ree ss

. 7  +¢ port... (CIA Liaison Officer Testimony, ‘

= $28, 33

i won Deceaber5.,. ‘the Mexica. Station.caz__ 2

. . _ bled that a source saw the Cuban-American :

7 ~ board_a_flight_from Mexico_City_to Havana
at he ‘looked suspicious’. It.:

+ reported
{ also report. hat_was then known about hi

senger on Cubana TI

: + dated 30e cenber T38, Fron W qrara cons CURTIS; ieee, ! a
STP apes EETENPOT F Feportes that one Gi1berts OPEZ - T--sserenien ‘Who

= hi suspicious" ~~ This’ inform Tmat. tion appears 9 a Nema a FoF the | “Files

oo


. : "102, The evidence atao establiazes that

——__________the ra_uaa_confu Son_as_.ta tn!
conducting the investigation in ‘lasico.
the _tnbassado rand tignat +

was tras, “although the Par doula cooperc
getting investigasi ive results abroad’, (lenoran- |
Cum toa. Batman, 1172

"Irontcaliy, neitaer the Legat nor tae Sureau 1
Supervisor gent down to "direct and coordinate the >
the investigation’ knew viether the State Devartment
or the CIA vas in fact investigating in Mexico."

[V.40;, footnote no. 102.]

Comment: I don't believe this statement. The FBI had the

primary responsibility for the investigation in the United

_ States and because of the FBI position in Mexico, the Legal

. Attache conducted investigations there; however, he worked in

closely with our Station relying upon us for matters which

Clearly fell within our responsibility for foreign intelli-
: “gence.
i The inference here is that there was confusio!

i srethere—may—travebeen—someshippage
in thring-sertous—enough to-cause-a Serious aisagresien
tween CIA and the FBI.



see . "On the same day, a cchle listing DDP ~*~ :
ol ELMS tho—volacet fficenvas—dispatered———_—___
to CIA stations in Europe and Canada.
—_ be tated ttc tctions—stonid-coresg

examina material obtained fron a ar

+ >
obvious significance of any scrap of informa-
TTT GEO ITC SIAN ON- (STI EITASSTNAELON Tasue.®
The Desk Officer in charge of the CIA inves-
 btgation was unasare that such a message had.
been sent out and wae at the time unavare of al

Ware and reliable source mentioned.”
Comment: The cable in question is DLRECTOR $5133 written |

R.T.WALSH, WE/SPO. WH shows on distribution, therefore,

“Desk Officer in charge of the CIA investigation" should

have seen it. He should also have been aware of the

specific source - "Because of obvious significance any scrap

information which bears on President's Assassination desire

addressee stations screen carefully all audio tapes since

22 Novenber 1963 for comments and cable an

mation so obtained." i

Mi



dere AC. NOOR On Novenber™ 25; <7D*, a Latin ,
American, appeared at the American Enbassy .
—tn-Mextco- Citys—[35}—He told-Enbassy-per—
-sonnel that he was in the Cuban consulate ~
—+—---—<on-Septenber-17-and-sav-Cubans-who-discussed
“assassination pay Oswald a sun of money. He
= —lateor_repeated-his_stom to the! Ft tere TEAR
oan [ a Station Chief." [(V.28) _

Comments: 2 ALVARADO | at no tine appeared at the american | =

| Embassy "some 2 of our: own n reporting it accurate. Recording

th aa F he made an sppoineaent t

two officers from thé Station. [Note a —S 25



Sub SESEEe st JSEEEL LOL
14-0000 << EIB ert tervt eved tutee~by Par agentsy—
on each occasion he repeaated?y lied. He also

an ————rayuned so ba poligrapied about ate negative
i answers to questions of ties vith Soviet intel-
 ttgence. Y2t che 23 close tne Sd. security |
case imnediataly after the second inzeryi

The case vas re-opened in area 13963, dut OSWALD }
Mat IO,

Wes not inzervieved by the_7ar. unsil! sug

1963, wien te requaated an interview 2 Ter his
tren t_in_iet_Orlecna for. distur —e

On the occasion of thie third intervie: » he again

——_—_———Sspeatedt, tied t0#31_agenta.—-a-monoatater. ;
OSWALD visited Mexico City, uiere he visited both }
i Cuban and So vee t—dtpiona tie—estabsiain ta; 7
and contacted a vice consul az the lazzer wao vas 1
St Fact eager 3
Gz |

Comment: It is believed that the Soviet official with whom OSWALD +
dealt in Mexico City was Consular Attache Valeriy Vladimirovich

XOSTIXOV, born in ee
: In his letter of Se
———in Hashington,- OSWALD wrote sbouthis neetings with Conrade_X

—s0ffieial-of-the-Soviet-Embassy—in-Mextco—with-amare—resembthn z |

ROS TIROV WHS THE SENIOF OF EICEF OF five Soviet Consular :

~~ ¥epresentatives who dealt with visas and related matters. There +
i

is firm evidence for the conclusion that KOSTIKOV is a Soviet State .

Security (KGB) officer, and the other four Consular officers were

;

;

also known or strongly susptected to be Soviet State Security :
H

t

"personnel serving under official cover.

It must be clearly _Stated that Soviet intelligence and

security officers Placed abroad under official cover Rormallys are

required to perform the routine and legitimate business demanded by.

the cover job in_an embassy or consulate.
aa spain!

KOSTIKOV was first spotted as_a KGB man because of his

travels around Mexico, his habitual association with known_xca___!

—Aéficars and because consuls, in-Soviet_practice, are-usualiy xed
—nen +
-An-~i -intensive—review-of-the-ftles—o four-NextcoCity station
~—was-undert aken—immediately “after the assassination to” Cond out any

previously unreported information about KOSTIXOV's activity. No vee

i

-



Ssetsestieat cactstatet |

hd ful new infornation bearing upon the assassination resulted frea : : |

this effort.

A close observation was maintained on the Soviet personnel,

KOSTIKOV in particular, for days after 22 November. Nothing unusual

or out-of-pattern was noted in the activity or movements of the

[From a nenorandum, dated 31 January 1964, passed to J. Lee Ravxiy |

ee ee

Soviet personnel. = |

"I mat" USRALD here. nto my office
and wanted me to introduce and recommend him to tne

—_——————"Tibans. He told me tnat na had lived in the USSR.
I told him that I would nave
recommend him. de was nervous and ita hands trem-
bled, and he stormed ous of m

———he-had- tated with Va leriyK0S? EXO¥-whren—he—weruatty-had-spoKem-to—{

———TFATSKOV 5 who turned hin over to | * :
nis superior YATSKOV. Sree eee z eras fia

’ SSnSEsSsSEnatansasansanmanannanannanasae*osee= :

TNemorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 2 July 1964, from Richard HELMS]!

According to a memorandum dated 23 May 1975, “Taere ta:

i
no tneremant of credidle evidence, epplying this phrase strictly, - | é i

of Soviet and/or Cuban political, intelligence or security service : -
—.

involvement in the assassination to what was developed and consi- ~* !
cae 1

dered by the Warren Commission and.its staff. The Commission's find-i

ing that Lee Harvey OSWALD was the killer of President Kennedy and . :

Officer TIPPIT and did them tn alone and of his oun determination ' |

stand:
| Een ee moe reer? oes eae
Ey oe Pr my Eee Been area erry ee rae.
1_____-such_evidence_coutd sziat—in--Moscow—and/or-favana; whose _votuntary—
tnputa to the Warren Commission vere minimal in quatity and quality, —

oS Pen

mm
ean
f
i



designed to cover up ary admtasionsa of xnouledge of, or connection - a

Dith, OSWALD watch might be related directly or indirectly vith the

assassination. Therefore, the belief taat there was Soviet and/or

Cuban (KGB and/or DGI) connection with OSWALD vill persist and grow

until taere has been a full disclosure by these governments of ail | !

elemente of OSWALD's handling and stay in the Soviet Union and hia

contacts in Meztco City. The Warren Commission report should have
left a wider ‘window’ for this contingency, That, indee.

cnt th king aval, particularly in th intelli
__eamponant in the Cli in 1864——as vas_indicated by Mm —a5LHS ini ‘
—--—teatinony_beforethe-vanronconmineton; ih wontd-sontinne toregard~
—Assass tration-of Presttent Join Fo Kennedy —Weadrings Berore

——— Presitent*s_tomnission—on_the Assassination of President Kenne
aaa “—(Washington, 196%), Vol. V., pp- 120-129. See especially p. 124 -
mrs Mr. -HELWS: "Yes. I would assume the case could never be closed.’

{Memorandum for DC/OPS, dated 23 May 1975 from Raymond G. Rocca;

Subject: Review of Selected Items in the Lee Harvey OSWALD file Re- j-

garding Allegations of the CASTRO Cuban Involvement in the John F. ial |

KENNEDY Assassination. ]

(|

|

Hi



-————— issued—a “public wars prominent ly in

the U.S. press about Un azes' meeting with

rrr ists Who Wished to elizinate Cuban leaders,
He threatened that Cubs would snsue

On Saturday evening, 7 Septender 1963, Fidel CASTRO ap- q !

peared at a Brazilian Embassy reception in Havana; even more un- |

usual, CASTRO submitted to an informal interview by the Associated

Press correspondent, Daniel HARKER.

HARKER's interview reached New York on Sunday, 8 Septem-_
ber, and was in print throughout the country on Monday, 9 Se: z

eee ber. There can be no question from the facts s1

aaa CASTRO appearance, which had not be r ’

ai __to the interview, that this event represented—a—m :

it attempt to get a message on the record in the -United-|

_______castrots stato

tat dealt_principally-with-Anerican-political tesdership, ia par :

—___eutar President-Kennept>—whoa-h-excoriated an bekbetieeniae fro>
vocative fashion. Z

The interview also contained aa uncomplimentary reference | -

to Senator GOLDWATER and Cuban delay in signing the limited nuclear dria

test ban. There-were differences in the replay by United States | States

ni
a

newspapers like the New York Times and Washington papers, with a -
New York Times » with ao ~j

7 result that CATSRO's "message" was significantly modulated.

— ai :
z a In New Orleans, where Lee Harvey OSWALD resided until the U |

middle of September 1963, the HARKER story appeared in the principal H
morning paper, the Times-Pica) on Monday, 9 Septe: | a :

under a three-column headline: "CASTRO 3lasts Raids on_Cuba Seyi;
Leaders Imperiled by Aid to Rebels". The story followed-under_the—
HARKER by-Jine: ———_——_:
€AP}_+-Prime-Ninister—Fid lek-€AS FRE]

said Saturday night: ' « leaders would be in
geri fthey_helped-in—any—attempt-to-du-avay————
So

i
i
H with Jeaders of Cuba’.
' Bitteriy denouncing what}

U.S. prompted raids on Cuban territory, Castro
rid Weare preapred to fignt them and answer
in kind. U.S. leaders should think that. “ie they

oo are ding terrorist pians to elininate Cuban

RENE 5 me mma on



leaders, they themselves will not be-safe'.
Ne. . World affai

entering a nore peace

2 ut nat i

attacks.

“*But I warn this is leading to a very : i
—_—#ngerous-sivuattor that tourd-teat a Worse i

crisis than October's... !

The New York Times, in its coverage on 9 September, used

a UPI wire service xeport which omitted any reference to the warning:

and threat which gave the interview its neal significance. the |:

he HARE -TRtETVTT, placing the emphasis on the political aspects
per "in particular, highlighting the GOLDWATER elements and burying
: . CASTRO’S warning to the United States leadership in the middle cf

“the piece.

=o eral

There is no evidence in the files on the KENNEDY assassi

mation that this CATSRO interview was considered in following up

leads or in dealings with the Warren ‘Commission and its staff al- i

though Mexico Station specifiéally directed Headquarters attention

to the AP story very shortly after the Dallas killing. _ More impor: !
tant, the interview appears to have been forgotten in the conten:
porary po Litical consideration of relations wich CASTRO's Cubs-——
————_Thexe_is_no_evidence in the Agency records, either, that-the-¥arren+
——Connission-staft- itself —pursued-the-implication-of the CASTRO-in-—

ee

idence—in-the fites—that anything atong thes eines was stated
i by—any-othrer—Cubar leader before the assassination. }

+—————asrno"s Warning and threat of 7 September 1963 - if :
sss did indeed read it in New Orleans - must be considered of
great significance in the light of the pathological evolution of

[_
¢

cease (ites

»



' a Suetecsteteses See a ee 5
} i

OSNALD's passive/aggressive make-up after his attempt to kill 9 =” i

General WALKER early ia April 1563 and his identification with Fidel!

CASTRO and the Cuban Revolution which is directly traceable as fa’

back as his Marine Corps service in £1 Toro, California. CASTRO'S

warning and threat, given to AP correspondent HARKER, irrespectivs
—_______of_ whether rhere was any fornal mandate, or even security servi
______contact with OS#ALD by the Cubans—or_the Russians—-—was—an—act—ot
———__——singular_irresponsibility—and-under-ne—eireunstane
as -retorsion—for-whatthe-€uban-emigres- were—doing-d



——discussio: ion-of—investigative-deficiencies—and—the—
7 . failure of Anerican intelligence agencies to in- 7 7 F

does not lead to tne conclusion that there was a
conspiracy ti tir epee} Xone

Tos tead_tnTS ROPOTE places particuiar
emphasis on the effect their Cuban operations
—"-—"sesned to nave on the investigation.

"The Report details these operations to illustrate
why they were relevant to_the_investigati
the CIA Operation involving a high-level Cuban of:
ficial, aned_AMLASH, is_described_in—order—————1i
to illustrate why that operation, and its possible ag
--_ramifications,—shot uld-have—boen—exani
_ the assassination investigation."
{V2}



"The Committee did not attempt to duplicate the
stark_o£ the Warren. Connission._It didnot. r:
the findings and conclusions of the Warren Commi-

dence which the Warren Commission had."

—_———fomment+—This—adaission—is—astounding,-particul:

—————comritteereportedty-investigating-the-ossassination-of Preside
= - Jorn—-F>—Kemmedy>— The rerrark—ts—obviousty-not—quite—correct; £01
7 the Comittes aust have read there;

tine to tine, However, tney proba



-- :£ile no. 201-289248 is held by the CI Staff and comprises $7 ~~

(4) Identify and describe the records with regard to this

activity.

The material relating to Lee Harvey OSWALD (internal
Agency documents, reports to and from other government agencies
and departments, correspondence with the Warren Commission, etc.)

+ is held in the Agency's official file on OSWALD. The official

volumes, ‘i.e., well over 200 separate file folders and envelopes.

In addition to the official file, there are ancillary files

covering various aspects of the investigation and later develop-
ments - FOIA requests for information, documents (copies) cleared
_for release in response to such requests, the Rockefeller Com-

mission, etc. - os oI

A machine index of the material held in the official file |"

reaches a total of 1829 deeuments—er entries. There is some

duplication and ommissions. It is not] possible to tell from

the machine index the subject of many of the documents, particu-

‘many of the documents appearing under those entries marked

XAAZ~-.

larly cables, nor is it possible to ascertain the origin.of |
See the attached list of files and folders reviewed te |

i

‘



1. Vol.
2. Vol.
3. Vol.
4. Vol.
5. Vol.

6. Vol.

7. Vol.
8. Vol.
3 Vol.
10. Vol.
11. Vol.
12. Vol.
‘13. Vol.
14. Vol.
‘IS. Vol.
‘16. Vol.
‘17. Vol.
i118. Vol.
‘19. Vol.
20. vol.
‘21. Vol.
‘22. ‘Voi.
23. Vol.
‘24. Vol.
25. Vol.
26. Vol.
27. Vol.
28. Vol.
29. Vol.
3@. Vol.

1

oe

Co nmnmorwraaoaunununer we wwe WN HY Be

~
°

10
11
12
13
14
15
16

Components of Official File on Lee Harvey OSWALD

Part 1, undated through 31.10.63
Part 2, 1.11 - 25.11.63
TX-1855, undated

WX-7241, undated

XAAZ-35909, undated

26.11.63 .
TX-1891, 26.11.63

Part 1, 27,11 - 28.11.63

Part 2, 29.11 - 30.11.63

Part 3, 1.12 - 2.12.63
DBA-63710, 30.11.63

DBA-63711, 2.12.63

3.12.63

4.12 - 7.12.63

XAAZ-35716, 6.12.63 Part 1
XAAZ-35716, 1.12.63 Part 2

8.12 - 9.12.63
DBA-16200, 8.12.63
10.12.63

10.12.63

DBB-11140, 10.12.63
10.12.63

11.12 - 20.12.63
XAAZ-27165, 20.12.63
20.12.63 : if
20.12.63
20.12.63 mt eee
23.12.63 ‘ iiecedsinarieciont!
23.12.63 Saeenesiaiesi
23.12.63

ij
|


t
31. Vol. 16 DBB-15706, 23.12.63 f
Vol. 17 23.12 - 31.12.63 !
33. Vol. 17 XAAZ-35713, 31.12.63

w
re)

34, Vol. 18 1.1.64
35. Vol. 18 DBB-11126, 1.1.64 ,
36, Vol. 19 2.1 - 6.1.64 i
37. Vol. 20 7.1.64
38. Vol. 21 7.1.68
39. Vol. 22 7.1 - 22.1.64
40. Vol. 22 XAAZ-22407, 21.1.64
41, “Vol. 23. 22.1.64 gaat ti
42. Vol. 24 23.1 - 10.2.64
43. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22409, 25.1.64
“44, Vol. 24 XAAZ 22409, 25.1.64 : ween ee
45. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22410, 25.1.64 .-

- see +46. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22441, 5.2.64 ae

47¢ Vol. 24 XAAZ-22412, S.2.64 - - wo ee
- 48, Vol. 24 XAAZ-22413, 8.2.64 enees
49. Vol. 24 XAAZ-35908, 2.64
50. Vol. 25 11.2.64
S21. Vol. 26 12.2.- 24.2.64 : eee
52. Vol. 26 XAAZ 22408, 22.1.64
1S3. .Vol. 27 25.2.64 - 9.3.64 eee
54, Vol. 27 XAAZ-22414, 28.2.64 : Ee 4
‘SS. Vol. 27 XAAZ-22415, 28.2.64
_ 56. Vol. 27 XAAZ-22595, 6.3.64
‘$7. Vol. 28 10.3.64
; 58. Vol. 29 10.3.64
ea ‘59. Vol. 30 11.3 - 13.3.64 |
60, Vol. 31 26.3.64



. . i 73.

“gi. Vol. 31. XAAZ-22450, 17.3.64 it
(62. Vol. 32° 25.3 - 31.3.64 i
“63. Vol. 32 XAAZ 22416, 26.3.643

64. Vol. 33 1.4 - 7.4.64

65. Vol. 33  XAAZ-22417, 6.4.64

66. Vol. 34 8.4 - 20.4.64

167. Vol. 35 21.4 - 30.4.66

“68. Vol. 35 XAAZ-22418, 21.4.64

(69. Vol. 35 XAAZ-22619, 24.4.66 ‘ : aan

Vol. 35 XAAZ~22420, 29.4.64 ; eo eeccu

Vol. 36 1.5 = 11.5.64 : eee i
Vol. 36 EX-10877, 5.5.64
Vol. 36 XAAZ-22421, 6.5.64
Vol. 36 XAAZ-22422, 8.5.64
‘78. Vol. 37 12.5 - 185.64

"16. Vol. 37 XAAZ-35714, 15.5.64

‘17, Vol. 38 19.5 - 27.5.64

[78. Vol. 38 XAAZ-35610, 21.5.64
'79. Vol. 38 XAAZ-35827, 20.5.64
80. Vol. 38 XAAZ-27210, 21.5.64
‘gh. Vol. 39 28.5.64"

‘a2. Vol. 40 28.5.66

‘83. Vol. 41 28.5.64

‘84. Vol. 42 28.5.64

Vol. 43 29.5 = 1.7.64

Vol. 43 XAAZ-22423, 3.6.64
Vol. 44 2.7.64

Vol. 45 2.7.64

Vol. 46 3.7 - 11.8.64

Vol. 46 XAAZ-22425, 22.7.64

t
i
!
!
1
oot
‘
'
!
'
!



+--+ +91, Vol, 46 XAAZ-22427, 31.7.64 ... pelea eee suiiss eaaenatsauina :
cosus + 2292. Vol. 47 5.8.64 Sneuneuee r

eee 93. Vol. 48.6.8 - 31.68.64 © 2 L.. i
94, Vol. 48 XAAZ-22428, 7.8.64 Seer eniae i
ite 9S. Vol. 48 XAAZ-22429, 23.8.64 etnias iene :
96. Vol. 49 1.9 - 18.9.64 eee eeeesece eet i
ieee 97. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22430, 9.9.64 Si ate te eRe SHH |
oo. 98+ Vo. 49 XAAZ-22431, 10.9.64 ii edie HenIaSHEEIEae

99. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22432, 10.9.64 : ee : eeu
100. Vol, 49 XAAZ-22433, 10.9.64_
ROL, Vol. 49 XAAZ-22434, 10.9.64

_ 102, Vol. 49 XAAZ~22435, 10.964
(203. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22436, 10.9.64
104, Vol. 49 XAAZ-22437, 1.9.64

"205. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22438, 11.9.64

106. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22439, 1.9.64

107. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22440, 11.9. oa

108. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22441, 18.9. 64

oT" "109. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22442, 18.9.64

110. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22443, 18.9.64

Til.” Vol. 49 XAAZ~-22444, 18.9. 64

‘112. Vol. $0 19.9.68 |

113. Vol. $1 21.9. - 25.11.64

414, Vol.” 51 XAAZ-22944, 22.10.64 [Press reaction to a

Commission Report]

fe a TO" AIS. Vol. $2° 727717 -"31212.64°
| a Vol. $2 XAAZ-22598, 25.11.64 [Unidentified Individual" -

A ~incompléte}” ~~
117. Vol. 52 XAAz- -35722, 12.64 [Master List of Warren Commission

1
‘correspondence and exhibits] (Unclassified) fa E
A -

18. Vol. $2. XAAZ-35723, 12.64 [Warren Commission_Log Book] ~ ~— :
(Unclassified) a wee ae ee : i

Vol. $3 1.65 - 5.66 Sete ee tee ee oe

ee reny 5 Cannan © enna
~
1 8 :



. ous 120. Vol. 53 XAAZ-22448, 5.5.65 [State Department file] —- - if

patel - 421, Vol. 53° XAAD-22449, 5.5.65 [731 Investigation Report and

}
ae te were ss Exhibits) ——-- eee eee eee eee
122. Vol. 55 XAAZ-22451, 5.5.65 [Copies of FBI documents,
eee auee Iteas 1-40] ore ee ee ee
123. Vol. 53  XAAZ-22452, 5.5.65 [Copies of FBI documents ,--
areseaeee lo... Items 41-181) ieeeesesetseeeresteanceecngeepaaseesnyenesaainny tl
124, Vol. 53 XAAZ-22452, 5.5.65 (Part 1 - duplicate] ._-__.._.-
.125. Vol. 53  XAAZ-22452, 5.5.65 (Part 2 - duplicate]
126. Vol. S3_.XAAZ-22453, 5.5.65 [Copies of FBI documents, __
suddereessussdesauzssiitere-eeteetiteazseen) 4 te 1. 4-0 \. | epeaaapeeeeenaonsten ssanigers
127. Vol. _S3_XAAZ-22454, 5.5.65 [News clippings]. _._. _...
128. Vol. 53 XAAZ-22943, 23.3.65 [Part 1, News clippings] __

129, Vol. 53__XAAZ 22943, 23.3.65_ {Part 2, News clippings] __

130. Vol. 53 XAAZ-27164, 2.2.65 [DDP's file on Warren Commis~-

_ Sion}

a 1. Bee edie Bgeagesssesssyereoasennai

isn. Vol. 5 53 SX- "24316, , 2. 8. 65 (SE Division soft file]

152, Vol, 54 §.66 - 4.67 _.
co Vo. 54 DCE -18035, 30. 7.65 (Part 1)
“154, Vol. 54 DCE-16035, 30.7.65 [Part 2]

“135. Vol. 54 DcE- CE-18035, 30.7.65 [Part 3}. a
: 136. “Vol. 55 1.5.67 - 10.67 7
137, Vol. $$ XAAZ-22560, 10.7.67 | fat
138. Vol. SS XAAZ-35715, 19.5.67, ,
139. Vol. 56 1.11.67 - 30.12.71 _ H
40. Vol. 86 TX-1942, 15.35.68 H
ia. Vol. 56 XAAZ-27163, 17.11.67 == i

_ . 4ar. Vol. $7_1.1.72 = creer ae

peas usta net beet uae

tap tenella



peta yas... ADDITIONAL FILES: De ete cee teen a

Title aa] No. of Weis
/""UPLINGUAL "Memoranda SIG 568 2

HTLINGUAL (clippings, etc.)
“OSWALD, SIG 568

“cr Special eedect a

"Record | of, Action - eee Conmission
eee pret SIG rete

DDP's File [Correspondence to and fron
Warren ee) (duplicate)

_ ss Rocca's files Epa) -
NOSENKO,hand1ing Ha eb ae nog LSC ETTOE spec

ci ccteccsueeues an, D@alings With Warren Commission. 1d.
_ HOCH Letter :

2
__ CASTRO Interview, 7 eouulanes 1963 asics? |
i
1

_Mexico Chrono Record

Unidentified Individual Report

Unnamed file 2

Rockefeller Conmission; notes” re-

garding Warren Commission 1 ae
Mexico City Station Files . isilad ietteeeasaddaaa HtGdatts esshstniarl|
i
oe hes (cre pre tce id Oy (ecto cera

Cormruizsion)

Heererse a Bett tte ( Qoeea Veubeae) paaeeeeeee ‘i
ee _

: i Master File Released Documents (FOLA) i fain
—— ~ v--lst series (released 2/3 1975)-~ ea

eer ‘File (copies) of Released Documents
‘ FOIA) Second Series
Released September 1976



As soon “as the name. af Lee OSWALD was ‘sentioned in conection

i with the assassination of President Kennedy on 22 November. CIA ~~ {
| file checks were begun and the Mexico City “Station. was “asked by”
| cable for more information on OSWALD. Within a week. twenty-seven oI
| cabled reports had. been sent to the White House, the Departm Nt
State, and the Federal Bureau of |_Inves tigation. E
CIA Field

TA host of fabricators,.’some anonymous » be

h spurious. tips on .the case.



‘Making available to the FBI ‘an

ment agencies ‘and epartnents, all inforsation ‘obtained on”

OSHALD or (Pertaining to his contacts with Cuban andy Soviet

“SEficials and organizations abroad:

“Specie Action Taken ‘by ‘the Agency —

Un the same day as the assassination,

Novenber

expect any thi

be on the quick: ‘Giert™ “at? least: for the next. few days ail “the new =:

President takes” over." [DIR 84608) .<

the ghiet of Ws i

L
ai
|

other material relating to hin. (Hrr 84914) *



| DURAN (texican enplovee of the mr Consulate, Mexico city). - a

faa -4{! [DIR 34925} ;
zl - On the same easy: thief, WTS, “asked the cctiae city ‘Station

| for any TaYoPaation indicating that IS¥AUD may fave SHES TEE Mexico

TE prernesneres ar-durimgthe-pe riod te Superstar te $ ter

Lee Harvey’ ‘OSWALD: , (DIR 85133)



ie a synopsis for COS background briefings to assist in the evalua- i

tion of any operational leads generated by the investigation,

(DIR 85817} Ha ee
_. A second cable was sent out on the same day_to Frankfurt

ats and The Hague asking for evidence of travel of Lee OSWALD and his
Russian-born wife during their return to the United States during
May and June 1962. [DIR 85973] ; fist

: On 2 December, headquarters sent a priority cable “to Ber-

lin, Bonn, Frankfurt, and The Hague asking for ‘confirmatory infor
mation relating to the travel of OSWALD, his wife, and oldest

child on their return from the Soviet Union (in 1962) to the

United States. [DIR 86077].
ae i On 12 December 1963, Chief, WH/3, asked Mexico City Sta-

tion to continue to watch for Soviet and Cuban reaction to tic
nae ~investigation of the President!s assassination, evidence of their
— complicity, and signs that they were putting out propaganda about
paniSpECer —the case. Mention was made that Soviet intelligence officers in
saansiaaest . India had letters sent to American leaders demanding a full in- _.

vestigation of the assassination. [DIR 88680] Eoaeseapissatsuesseteesosstoates



The initial Fesponsé to headquarters" requirements levied ~

on the field, after the assassination of the “President, has been”

. ae
eects treated under Question (1) ab:

As this information was received.
+ - : aa
ieee S| in Headquarters it was compared with existing information, if any, |

oe
= iz

| “Synthesized, analyzed, and then nade available to the white House,

; the Departaent of. State, and the Federal Bureau of Tavestigation



pategatanstasaAsns

ii uN SECTION I Bt iain |
Responses to “the cables listed under, Question MD ‘above are’ | ‘

tgiven below under each cable.

DIR 84608, 22 November 1963 ‘
_Response: On 23 Novenber the London Station stated | that: Headz!

quarters! alert had pen passed to the British services’ :

te1ephone ‘calls ‘believed to have been made by" OSWALD: had Been.
made by sone “other ‘unidentified person.) . (MEXI-7023 CIN. 67108), —



Gee - on 24 Novenber 1963. Mexico City |

r. _MEXI- 7054 on 24 Novenber 1963. This “cable contained. addit

fy or anendnents to MEXI-7046, (In addition to information ob

froa Silvia DURAN contained in her Hie, see also the Tevicw. of.
| selected iteas in the Lee “Harvey” SAAD File Tegarding TTTEaTIONS

DIR £4926, 78. Novenber 1963
Response: | “Hexico City Station tation CaBTee arr



“{LOND 6097 (IN 69100)}

_69328)]

trices on OSWALD. (ROME 1258 (IN 70111)]

c. On 27 Novenber, Ottawa reported no traces in Station
or liaison files. [OTTA 1275 (IN 69005)] :

d. On 27 November, Copenhagen forwarded a negative report
{COPE 3469 (IN 69011)] fiat

e. On 27 November, London Station reported that the mihede

fic Index" showed that OSWALD had arrived in Southampton on 9

October 1959; he left the following day by air for Helsinki.
£. On 27 November, Ottawa Station sent a second cable con-
taining information on the initial reaction of the Cuban Ambassa-

dor CRUZ and his staff to the report of the assassination. “After

‘further information was received (by the Cubans) that OSWALD had

connections with the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, there was some
apprehension concerning !ossible United States reaction. . —.-—
(OTTA 1277 (IN 69233)] : we eden eee
g- On 27 November, Oslo Station cabled a response that
there were no traces on OSWALD in Station or liaison files. |
{OSLO 4490 (IN 69290)) 4 ‘ :
h. On 28 NOvember, the Madrid Station repited that there _

was no information in Station or liaison files. (MADR 9789 (IN

i. On 29 November, the Brussels Station stated there were i

no traces on OSWALD. ([BRUS 8739 (IN 69852)) ? j
—

j. On 29 November, the Rome Station Teported no © liaison

k. On S$ December, the Paris Station reported that Station

|

and liaison traces were negative. [PARI 1770 (IN 74$234)] :
E 1, ‘On 10 December, the Paris Station reported that the
French press was giving sensational coverage to the possibility ~
that the assassination was "a many-angled plot". {PARI 1853 (IN
77148)) i

- BIR_85817, 29 November 1963

DIR 85973, 29 November 1963 _

cee



seme 7 se 7 t DIR 86077, 2 Dec 63 |
a i yl Ja, ons December; the Bonn Base ‘forvartes inforiation Tegar-| L t

—t_
: ing Marina OSWALD's entry into “Germany at Helnstedt on 3 June 1962. “i

eft Cernany the Same day at Denthe ein. “WarEnE USAC was mary =
tin ora tesr Gorman visa no 092782; tesuse-ty the hese erm ]



ae 7 be
that” OSWALD of the. Fair, Play ss Cuba Comittee had a tieipated in i
ja ‘debate in de “1963 on the

New Orteans radio station, wsu.

nd considred to be a menbor of the 2 KGB's thir-

Sabotage and assassination,
teenth Départaent/ oe the First Chiet Directorate.

during the firse: twelve “days ‘of Nov: ber who might

ae have Been ientical ith Lee Harvey. “OSWALD. Text -7020 aw 66ao1)T |

| quarters that the United” States Consulate in Nuevo Laredo had infor-i

|| nation that OSWALD” had entered Mexico at Nuevo Laredo on 26 Septen


lover: the next year. The ‘thiet of SR continued. by “susgesting c
‘if ABLADLE'

s (Anatoliy Mikhaylovich GOLITSYS} views ‘on Garote) |

.one ‘of Harold’ WILSON's principal Scientific advisers
“lds Captain Ian MAXWELL, who has a long Soviet ‘intelli- *
‘gence background.

_ repart, i.e., that Harold WILSON aay be a Soviet agent."

“statements as. heard.

tion to ) trish wing elenents'. Saly as the true_iden-

e-assignment oF T3t

el pee

Department officers

Tong “and ‘exceptionally valuable discussions, that

This may Shed few light on AELADLE'S a

+a

a


i “pares States Testers in the event of UaTtEE ‘States get

Tession

pee comet aremtinred tre above tients aa Fite AST

Hho nade—these-remaris—duning-a-reception_in-early Septemb

n Havana AVE-8 62394

no

ney, changer ves will not be safe.

