SS PeEEE EEE EE EEE

ou Ne 7 “ a - ~ me
04-10 106-10299 [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT J '. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
ee eee “Om Ib
a/a717

25 February 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SOG
SUBJECT : Mitchell Livingston Werbell III

REFERENCE 2 OGC 76-0844

1. There is no record of any members of this office having met
or had direct dealings with Subject at any time in the past.

2. Demonstration firing for evaluation of the Ingram submachine-
gun, manufactured by the Military Armament Corporation with which Subject
was associated, was conducted eB aupurc in mid-October 1972 at the
request of WH Division. The weapons were provided by the U.S. Army for
this purpose. There was no direct contact wil h the manufacturer nor any
of its representatives, according to Mr. who was personally
involved in the tests. 3

3. Early in 1969, a prototype Ingram submachinegun manufactured by
SIONICS Incorporated, the predecessor of Military Armament Corporation,
with which Subject was also associated, was demonstrated to SOD. The
company's solicitation for purchase orders was unsuccessful, the asking
price of more than $1,400 having been considered excessive. There is no
record of the identity of the SIONICS Incorporated representative with
whom SOD was in contact at that time nor whether, in fact, there was
direct contact. A memorandum from the former Chief, SOD, Mr. F. P. Holcomb,
to Chief, WH Division concerning Subject indicates there was no contact,
at least with Subject.

4. There is no information on record with this office concerning

a Colonel Bayard.
°3

Dan Blodmfield
S0G/GB/MSS

E2 IMPDET

IA SECRET CL BY 055272

