# 104-10331-10093

## Page 1

104-10331-100:

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SEGRET

LSI 0321/93

16 September 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Special Assistant to the Associate

Deputy Director for Operations

Frank Most

HRG Senior Review Officer

organization Crypts in the JFK File

1.

The cryptonyms listed below appear frequently in

the Oswald 201 files and the JFK collection. It is not

unusual for the delection of these crypts to be the only:

sanitization in the text of the documents. Each crypt is

inactive (cancelled), and some have been publicly exposed.

According to your memorandum on "Release of JFK

Assassination Records" dated 25 June 1993, "if the crypt has

been retired, does not relate to existing

or another project

and does not contain a valid digraph," it may be released in

some cases.

These cryptonyms meet the criteria set forth in

your memorandum and, under the JFK Assassination Records Act

of 1992, are not protectable.

As part of the rereview of the "Denied in Full" and

"Sanitized" documents in the JFK Collection, HRG will be

releasing the following crypts:

1.. KUBARK - CIA

2. KUDOVE - Clandestine Services

3. KUDESK - Counterintelligence Division

4. GPFLOOR - Oswald

5. GPFOCUS - Kennedy, Robert F.

6. GPIDEAL - Kennedy, John F.

7. ODACID - State

CL BY

DECL

DR FR

(0185904

TOADR

MET 2-82

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SUBJECT:

"Organization Crypts in the JFk File

8. ODENVY - FBI

9. ODFOAM - Secret Service

10. ODOATH - Navy

11.

ODURGE - INS

12.

ODYOKE - U.S. Govt.

13 .

PBPRIME - U. S. (American Cits.)

14. PBRUMEN - Cuba

15.

PBSWING - U. S. Embassy or Official

Installation

16..

WOFACT - CIA

17.

WOMACE - DDO

v Frank Mos

CC: DO / IRO

APPROVED:

chief)

7. Pereiia

storical Review Group

16-8,1993

Date

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SUBJECT: Organization Crypts in the JFK File

DCI/CSI/HRG/BJHarrelson:hfs/XX30335

Distribution:

original - Addressee

1 - C/HRG

1. - Frank M.

1

- Barry H.

1 - HRG file

(16 Sep 93)

SECRET

---

