# 104-10121-10304

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10121-10304

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use O

INTERVIEW "PROCESSING SMAST

ROUTING

-Do Noi Reproduce

Subject:

Morales.

Davil 2.

3941 б

Advice received reveals

thatthe subject person is schedaled

for overseas

travel as indicated below -

Departure

Date

28 9455

Title &

Grade

Office &

Destination MACat

Davision

99

lose passport

GS - 12

VY H

Cover

Type & No.

Return

Date

FRELIMINARY PROCESSING - A revienof this file

and the above information reveals:

No special briefing topics

or

See below

No special cover problems

No special debriefing by other

03°

or

See below

Requires debriefings on

(as circled) SI Q CRYPT -==*

[ No speciai badges or credentials

or

See remarks

i

REMARKS

cert "155"

Date of Polygraph

10/53

€ 10/55

INTERVIEW - On the indicated date subject was interviewed on the

following points:

1.

2

.

3.

40

50

6.

Security regulations in general.

Travel Precautions (to carry nothing identifying him with CIA).

Cover Story (nature of cover; adequacyor prior briefing; possibility of.

inconsistencies; briefing of

spouse).

Personal Affairs (proper handling of bank account, credit accounts, for-

warding of mail).

Personal Correspondence (no mention of CIA in letters to and from subject).

Personal Conduct (a. general good behavior, b. no black market or currency

transactions, co po undue duriosity in natives in his area, d. no attempts

to identify or approach otherCIA personnel in area except for official

business and through official channels).

7.

8

Other Travel (only official travel in or through Soviet controlled areas).

Other:

ACTION -

Security debriefing by the undersigned

completes action necessary in this case.

Subject was referred to

the following for the indi-

cated additional briefing:

/ The following were obiained from

subject and forwarded appropriataly

for disposition.

or

Subject raspermitted to

retain the following for turn in

at a later date.

By:_

Date:

28 24553

4pl

---

