[104-10192-10199) { 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }

1

7

i aiod ‘ BL ASSIFIED MESSAGE om

3 BEE ak anv

neo. CoP, WH 5, 06°6, S/t 2

Evies

ta OPLI UAVZ mo ROM tee crre ot i otc.
ser: CORRE OOD
GF: GR poe (oR ee
a, MePKeis Germ varran™ ar mgs MORNING 6 SEPT SAYING
PEDO J, L. ALYAREZ PTO PASSPORT NO, 23432 ARRIVSD FROM HAVANA G9,
wee ade 12% BUNCE tb tear

PAA FL TICE 5 SEPT. EAS MESSAGE FOR HITCH FROM AMBLESS~12, i
CONEATE A«3 43 PER RET. ‘TODAY DEBRIEF AND MAKE ASRANGEMENTS TO

Usst ALVAR=S. ADVISE.
2. SUST YESSIVED SW FROM A-1 AS FOLLOWS: "WE RECEIVED MONEY.

SUST NS)

Iz IS ret UUs. «LST SEPT PEDRO J. L. ALVAREZ, UNCLE NATIONAL
AQIOE SUPPLY "MD RECEPTIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS WILL

ST, YOU CAT CONTACT EIM THROUGH THE PERSON WE YAVE
STD ATTY CANS Ac3.) “HIS RETURN WHEN MISSION

reins

, AGO MORENO MELO IS ASSISTANT NATIONAL
pismo basecotony

232 AD PRUSENT THM THAT Is 10 SAY HE WILL BE THE

WELL ii? Il wcmacr WITH You IN THE EVENT T DISAPPEAR.

WISA UAIVERS ROQUISTID AVS UCT ARRIVED. se

teitasine opeice AUTMENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE tSSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED, Copy No.



#000 ‘a

OIRECTOR

neon rSeees PACE 2
10 + ee cneor 10158

“20 :

: 3.° MAKE ARBANCEURTS WITH A-3 TO PASS RS-6 RADIO COMPLETE WITH
“PADS, SIGPLAN AND CRYSTALS TO A~l IN SAME MANNER MONEY WAS PASSED.
v3 HAS ALREADY CHECKED AND INFORMED "HITCH" THIS COULD BE DONE.

be RIO AUTHORIZED PROVIDE RADIO EQULPKENE AS REQUESTED.
, (END OF MESSAGE)

sereasine overcee ADIMERTICATING OFFICER ©

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE JS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

abn
