104-10131-10041, {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

i Al LICATIQN FOR RETIREME!

complete application in full; ypewrite or print in in!

A. PERSONAL INFORMATION

(First) 2 DATE OF BIRTH "3. SOCIAL SECURTTY5NUMBER
(Month) (Dey) (Yeor)

TARASOFF Boris Nov 2 1908

+, ADDRESS (Number and sree) (City and State) > (Zip Coe)
o
cons; [Rancho Contento, S.A., Apartado Postal 2707, Guadalajara, Jal., Mexico]
crecss, Union Trust Company of the District of Columbia, ©. Box 481, Ben
Franklin Stn., Washington, D.C. 20044 (Ac Gal
5S. (A) ARE YOU 6. (B) IF “YES.” GIVE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION:

MARRIED?
‘WIFE'S OR HUSBAND'S NAME ‘TH DATE] DATE OF MARRIAGE | ADDRESS OF SPOUSE IF DIFFERENT FROM ITEM 4
(First) (Middle) (Month) (Day) (Year)

Anna 23 | Mar 10 45 N/A
B. CIVILIAN SERVICE

1. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT 2. SERVICE DESIGNATION] 3. LOCATION OF EMPLOYMENT (City ond Stote)

Yes

DDP/WH Mexico City

‘4 TITLE OF LAST POSITION 'S. DATE: OF FINAL. SEPARATION (Month)-- (Day) (Yeor) 6. APPROXIMATE NUMBER OF YEARS OF

Staff Agent Nov 30 1970

7. DO YOU HAVE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES GROUP LIFE INSURANCE?” ‘8 ARE YOU ENROLLED IN A PLAN UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS

PROGRAM?

Od ves No

Elves Ono
C. MILITARY SERVICE

T. COMPLETE THE SCHEDULE BELOW IF YOU HAVE PERFORMED ACTIVE DUTY THAT TERMINATED UNDER HONORABLE CONDITIONS IN ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SERV.
ICES: (4) ARMY. NAVY. MARINE CORPS, AIR FORCE, OR COAST GUARD OF THE UNITED STATES: OR (G) REGULAR CORPS OR RESERVE CORPS OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH
SERVICE AFTER JUNE 30, 1960; OR (C) AS A COMMISSIONED OFFICER OF THE COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY AFTER JUNE 30, 1961, IF AVAILABLE, ATTACH A COPY OF

"A

DATE OF ENTRANCE | DATE OF SEPARATION LAST GRADE ORGANIZATION AT DISCHARGE
iatabbesedlicdalibead becpeetetihietthi ‘ON ACTIVE DUTY. | FROM ACTIVE DUTY ‘OR RANK (Dir. Regt. Con ete)

20 248 288 3 Feb 1941 20 Oct 45 Tec 4

2. (A) ARE YOU A MILITARY RE-| 2. (B) ARE YOU IN RECEIPT OF OR HAVE YOU EVER APPLIED FOR | 2. (C) IF “YES.” WERE YOU RETIRED FROM A RESERVE COMPO.
Senvisy (EITHER ACTIVE MILITARY RETIRED PAY? (RETIRED PAY DOES NOT IN- NENT UNDER CHAPTER 67, TITLE 10, US.C. (FORMERLY
OR INACTIVE) —.. . CLUDE'V.A. PENSION OR COMPENSATION.) TITLE Ul, PUBLIC LAW 60-810)?

Ors Wro ves [no OO ves NO
D. DISABILITY INFORMATION

Only applicants for total disability retirement will 1, WHEN DID YOU BECOME TOTALLY DISABLED! (Month, year)
complete Part D.

2. BRIEFLY DESCRIBE YOUR DISABILITIES. STATE. WHEN INCURRED, AND HOW THEY INTERFERE WITH PERFORMANCE OF THE DUTIES OF YOUR POSITION. (ATTACH
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS ON PLAIN SHEET OF PAPER IF NECESSARY) RETURN TO cI,

Background Use 0;
Do Not Reproduce!

E. OTHER CLAIM_INFORMATION

1. (A) HAVE YOU EVER RECEIVED OR MADE APPLICATION FOR COMPENSATION | |. (8) IF “YES.” STATE THE NUMBER OF YOUR COMPENSATION CLAIM AND THE|
UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES’ COMPENSATION ACT? PERIOD FOR WHICH YOU RECEIVED COMPENSATION,

‘CLAIM NUMBER FROM (Month) (Doy) (Year) [TO (Month) (Dey) (Year)

Yes

2. (A) HAVE YOU PREVIOUSLY FILED ANY APPLICATION UNDER THE CIVIL SERVICE | 2. (B) IF “YES,” INDICATE THE TYPE(S) OF APPLICATION
 Retinetenrr srsvent INCLUDING APPLICATION FOR RETIREMENT, REFUND, (©) END Give THE CLAIM NUMBERG) if KNOWN | CLAIM NUMBERS
DEPOSIT OR REDEPOSIT, OR VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS! CO nerinerent Reacer ek RESeeoaty

VOLUNTARY

Ove Bn REFUND O contaicutions

3. (A) HAVE YOU PREVIOUSLY FILED ANY APPLICATION UNDER THE CIA RETIRE- [3, (B) IF “YES.” INDICATE THE TYPE(S) OF APPLICATION: .
MENT & DISABILITY SYSTEM, INCLUDING APPLICATION FOR RETIREMENT,
REFUND, PURCHASE OF SERVICE CREDIT, OR ae irae te (1) ketiReMeNT DD purcnase oF service cReomr
N

Ons 0 © reruno 1 vowuntary CONTRIBUTIONS

1) HAVE YOU EVER BEEN EMPLOYED UNDER ANOTHER RETIREMENT SYSTEM [ 4 (8) IF “YES.” GIVE THE NAME OF THE OTHER RETIREMENT SYSTEM
saeco cece ce caearteeeeaeeed > Caer Civil Service System

3/4


TE, BY, SIGNING YOUR INITIALS IN THE APPROPRIATE BOX BELOW, THE TYPE OF ANNUITY YOU WANT TO ‘RECEIVE. READ THE EXPLANATIONS AND
Ral LONSIDER THE MATTER CAREFULLY. NO CHANGE WILL BE PERMITTED AFTER AN ANNUITY HAS BEEN GRANTED. IF YOU WANT AN ANNUITY WITH A
VIVOR BENEFIT, BE SURE TO GIVE THE OTHER INFORMATION CALIES FOR.

mats | ANNUITY WITH SURVIVOR BENEFIT TO
1. WIDOW OR WIDOWER

SPECIFY THE PORTION OF YOUR ANNUITY YOU WANT USED AS THE BASE
FOR YOUR WIDOW'S (OR WIDOWER'S) SURVIVOR ANNUITY.

if you want all your ennuity used as the bate for the survivor

e below. If you wont | --

bes the surviver
benefit, write the yeorly amount of your annuity you want used.

THE SURVIVOR'S ANNUITY Wilt BE 55% OF AU! OR WHAT.
EVER PORTION OF YOUR ANNUITY YOU SPECIFY AS THE BASE
FOR HER (OR HIS) BENEFIT

ANNUITY WITHOUT SURVIVOR BENEFIT

1 do not desire my wife (or husband) to receive a
survivor annuity benefit after my death.)

Pinitiats } ANNUITY WITHOUT SURVIVOR BENEFIT

Pinas) ANNUITY WITH SURVIVOR BENEFIT TO
NAMED PERSON HAVING AN INSURABLE
INTEREST

DATE OF BIRTH (Mo., day. yr.)

SEE UNMARRIED EMPLOYEES UNDER INFORMATION REGARDING SURVIVOR

ANNUITIES ON THE ATTACHED INFORMATION SHEET FOR EXPLANATION OF REDUC-
TION IN YOUR ANNUITY.

H._CERTIFICATION OF APPLICANT

WARNING —Any intentional false statement in this application
‘or willful misrepresentation relative thereto is a violation of the
law punishable by a fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment
of not more than 5 years, or both (18 U.S.C. 1001).

> The annuit

G._TYPES OF ANNUITY: UNMARRIED APPLICANTS ONLY

© If you are married. you will receive this type of annuity unless
you choose the annuity in F. 2 ued .

payable to you during your lifetime will be reduced
by 247, of any amount up to $3,600 a year used as the base for
the survivor plus 107%, of any amount over $3,600 so

© If you retire for total disability before age 60 and get a guar-
anteed minimum disability annuity, you may use all or any’part
- of your “earned” annuity as the base for the survivor benefit.
You cannot use any extra annuity which may be payable to make

up the guaranteed minimum annuity.

© If your wife (or husband) should die before you, no change in
type of annuity will be permitted, your annuity will not be in-
creased, nor may you name any oiher person as survivor.

‘The survivor's annuity will begin upon your death and end when
‘she (or he) dies or Tania

“> * If you choose this type, your wife (or husband) cannot be paid

8 survivor annuity after your death.
© This type provides annuity payments to you only.
Including Widowed and Divorced)
If you are not married, you will receive this type of annuity
unless you choose the annuity in G. 2.
‘This type provides annuity payments to you only.

‘This is available to all retiring wvmarried employees who are
in health.

It provides a reduced annuity to you and a survivor annuity to
‘the person named as having an insurable interest.

‘The survivor's annuity will begin uy your death and end when
she(orhe) dies fue

The survivor's annuity will be 55%, of the reduced annuity you
i choose this t you will have to undergo a medical
examination which will be ‘arranged by the Director of Personne]
at no cost to you.

Hf-the person-named as having an insurable interest should die
before you, no change in type of annuity will be permitted, your
anauity will not be increased, nor may you name any other
penon ay furvivor.

‘ify that all statements made in this application are true
belief.

tole ‘best ony, knowledge and
16 July 1970
—

/s/ Boris D. Tarasoff

(SIGNATURE _OF APPLICANT

