# 104-10072-10289

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10072-10289

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND - RECORD SPEET

INSTRUCTIONS"

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back.

Detach, back ap

and forward to RID

2. Destroy tronticover sheet,

unless it records

significant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il tile no, and title shown are not proper,

insert proper lile no. below and forward

document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPHOPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

SAS/ ESC

.3...

SAlMON FI

lifeti ROD

DATE

ROOM

NO

RECEIVED

April 64

Mle.na 19s1

OFFICER'S

DRE

Coey Detacked do

5A/d55

SA 5/30/HH

1. fades,

17/3/343

illace.

En Misun ep 20114

MICROFILMED

APR 9 1964

3t13;

117/3164

DOC. MICRO. SER.

оз серне СВ

rife tine, Baleine the yuane

12.

13

14.

T5.

17.

RID/FI

EQUES

DATE MICROFILMED

ORM

610a

1

ABSTRACT

INDEX

hor prich

to clean. reg

FILE TITL

FILE NUMBER PRIMARY CODES

DocUMEN 71-746 4/06

UFGA

14781

7 арг /26 $

SECRET

D...

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MISPATCH

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MICROFILMED

AFRy 158.+

DUE MERO TER

PRO.

POSED

XX

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINE

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

OMLY QUALIFIED

MEADQUARTERS DESA

CAN SUOGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

118201"

ACCOM

PLISMED

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

TYPIC/OPERATIONAL

Special Activities Report on IMWAVE's Relationship with

501-746416

AMCARBON -1

•QUIRED. REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED:

Paragraph 10

REFERENCES

A .

WAVE 8981,

dated 24 September 1962

B.

WAVE 9169

dated

28 September 1962

C.

WAVE 9343,

dated 2 October 1962

D.

DIR 40975

dated 6 October 1962

UFGA 14411, dated 4 March 1964

INTRODUCTION.

In Reference E,

JMWAVE forwarded a review

of the nature of its relationship with

AMCARBON-2.

This review

indicates that the relationship with AMCARBON-2 evolved from that

action which was taken in September 1962 to insure that a security

breach would not occur as a result of an investigation which was

being carried out by the Identity 1 relative to the fact that the

establishment of the Identity 2 was being kept from the

South Campus as a result of security restrictions which were in some

way related to JMDUSK.

the relationship with AMCARBON-2

stemmed from the remedial action which had been taken in a crisis

situation

the establishment of a working relationship with the

Identity'' was an objective which

JMWAVE had always hoped to obtain.

As a matter of façt,

in Reference A, the recommendation was made

that JMWAVE be given approvalto contact the major South Florida

media in an attempt to work out a relationship with these news

media which would insure that they did not turn the publicity

spotlight on those KUBARK activities in South Florida which might

come to their attention. • Thus,

when a relationship was established

with AMCARBON-2, it was

carefully cultivated in order that JMWAVE

might be able to use this contact at the Identity 3 as a means of

achieving the objective of having a relationship with the Identity 3,

which would simultaneously insure the security of JMWAVE's operations

and give JMWAVE an outlet into the press which could be used

surfacing certain select propaganda items. In the period October to

usc cat'd in RID/AN

- Five Newspaper Clippings

B - Identities

Distribution:

3 - Chief, NAS, W/atts.

INUt

1 CROSS REFERENCE TO

201-746416

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

19 March 64APR 2

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

1SCA

UFGA-14781

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

201-

1m? .9.21

6:1 :

CLASSIFICATION

LUISE CRET

IMCARBON LIS JOURNALISTIC CAREER.

subsequently advanced from this astigawent to an assignmen

ntailed covering major political developments in Florida

At a later date, AMCARBON-l became a feature writer for the

Identity 3.

9933

la

USE PREVIOUE EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PAGINO.

2.

CONTIN.JED

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA -11781

lecember 1962, all of JMWAVE's business with the Identity 3

ras handled via AMCARBON-2.

In mid-December

1962,

lade the suggestion that he introduce REUTEMAN to

in the event that

EUTEMAN might require assistance from the Identity

lotel columuus g

Miami, Florida,

at which AMCARBON-2 introduced

iMCARBON -1 to REUTENAN.

As a result of this initial meeting on

12 December 1962, an operational relationship has developed with

IMCARBON-1, and it is believed that this rolationship contributes

to the fulfillment of the over-all JMWAVE mission.

In view of

a special activities report is being submitted to cover the

nature of JMWAVE's relationship with

AMCARBON-1 during the

period December 1962 to March 1964.

FRAME OF REFERENCE FOR JMWAVE'S RELATIONSHIP WITH AMCARBON-1

When AMCARBON-2 introduced AMCARBON-1 to RNUTEMAN,

AMCARBON-2

reviewed the ground rules under which he had been

This review was conducted for AMCARBON-1's

benefit, in order that he might clearly understand the frame of

reference which should prevail in his relacionships with REUTEMAN.

In this review,

AMCARBON-2 pointed out thai it was the policy

of the Identity 3 that it would take no action which would

purposely, embarrass KUBARK or its South Florida operations.

a result,.

if any embarrassing items relative to KUBARK's operations

in South

Florida did come

to the attention of the Identity 3, this

material would be brought to REUTEMAN's immediate attention.

AMCARBON-2 made it clear to AMCARBON-l that such items should be

discussed with REUTEMAN in a frank manner.

In addition, AMCARBON-2

made the point that:

after in item was discussed, AMCARBON-1

should follow REUTENAN's guidance relative to how any particularly

a padentially embar pete to sells attention and

if AMCARBON-1 brought

remedial action on the matter was not taken by REUTENAN within

a reasonable period of time,

the Identity 3 would feel free

to expose any ineptness on KUBARK's part.

AMCARBON-2 pointed

out that in return for this cooperation

from the Identity 3,

REUTEMAN had agreed that he would be available

for contact by

telephone or periodic personal meetings at which

AMCARBON -1

and ANCARBON-2 could discuss broad trends and developments in

Latin American affairs.

AMCARBON-2 advised AMCARBON -1 that this

arrangement did not mean that AMCARBON-1 could expect to obtain

any classified information from REUTEMAN.

The point was also

made that AMCARBON-L should not press for the obtaining of

classified information, but he should be alert to steering tips

which REUTEMAN might furnish him on fast-breaking news stories.

AMCARBON-1 indicated that he understood the frame of

reference

which had been

outlined by AMCARBON-4•

This frame of reference

has prevailed throughout JMWAVE's relationship with AMCARBON-1

during the period December 1962 to March 1964.

AMCARBON-1'S JOURNALISTIC CAREER.

AMCARBON-1 originally

started to work for

the Identity 3 in 195% on the City

and subsequently advanced from this assignment to

assignment

which entailed covering major political developments

Florida.

At a later date, AMCARBON-1 became a feature writer for the

Identity 3.

Then in July or August 1962,

AMCARBON-1 was made

the Identity * This assignment was considered to be a significant

CLASSiFICATION

•За

USE PREVIOUE GUITION

SECRET

xX

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2.

L4.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH .

00 0 0 100 a p soder

SECRET

|ПАСОЙ Й! :.-

UFGA -11781

promotion for AMCARBON-_.

and it retlected confidence in him by

the Identity 3 management.

AMCARBON-1 is by no means an expert

on Latin America, but he is developing his knowledge on the area

and, at the roment, he gives every

Indication of wanting

to be a

long-term Laïin American specialist.

QDELF has been

questioned

about AMCARBN-1, and he has indicated that AMCARBON- is regarded

in the journilistic trade as an extremely likeable fellow who has

a keen mind but who lacks experience in

on Latin American

affairs.

It is QDELF's opinion that given

an appropriate lapse

of time, AMCARBON-1 will develop into one of the leading Latin

American sperialists in U.S. journalistic circles.

AMCARBON - 1

has a workins command of Spanish, and he is constantly attempting

to improve his language fluency.

It is REUTEMAN'S

AMCARBON -1 has developed rapidly as a Latin American specialist,

and he will continue to grow in this field.

who should be developed and harnessed for exploitation, bearing

in mind that he does have long-term potential.

AMCARBON-1'S CONTACTS AND SOURCES.

In keeping with the

traditional pattern of source protection which is common to

newspapermen, intelligence officers and law enforcement officers,

AMCARBON-1 attempts to guard the true identity of all of his

sources.

Sources to Reema, order that meaning even me

to REUTEMAN, in order

could be made of that information which AMCARBON-1 had passed to

As i result of these occasional witting identifications

of his sources,

as a result of

general conversations with

AMCARBON -1

the following persons:

Luis FERNANDEZ Rocha (201-316766), secretary general

of the DRE.

b.

Manold #RAY Rivero (201-239298), chief of JURE.

Carlos

*ODD y Lobo (201-264141) of the defunct

C.

Havana

Times."

d.

AMBIDDY-1 (201-267437)

e.

Aureliano

F#SANCHEZ Arango (201-019245), leader of the AAN.

Edmund FLEAHY of the Washington News Bureau.

AMCARBON-1

regards this source as being particularly

interesting,

in view

of

the fact that LEAHY'S daughter is a secretary in the office of

Attorney General Robert KENNEDY.

Frank

*FIORINI (201-242256), free-lance pilot and li

adventurer.

Eduardo

*SUAREZ Riva, public relutions man for the MR.

Luis

EMUNOZ Marin, governor of Puerto Rico.

j.

Juan

F#BOSCH Gavino (201-103272), former president of

the

Dominican Republic.

TE.

Charles ExEELY of the Copley Wire Service.

*VOLSKY Kraisler (201-352252)

an employee of (l

AMCARBON -1 is

well aware of the fact that vOLSKy

is a detacto

stringer for Tad

SZULC of the New York Times,

but this

AMCARBON-1 from attempting to exploit VOLSKY as a

source of intormation.

FORM

5-60

(40)

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CONTINUATION CF

DISPÄTCH

SECRET

UFGA-14781

OPERATIONAL SUPPORT,

On occasion,

AMCARBON-1 is used

to carry

out certain operational support tasks.

In such instances,

AMCARBON -1 makes his inquiries or carries

the required action

within the context of his normal journalistic activities.

of AMCARBON-1 for operational support tasks

enables JMWAVE to

harness the investigative facilities of the Identity 3.

examples of how AMCARBON-1 has been used in operational support

tasks are outlined below:

Andrew ORDONO Camps•

DOB 30 September 1914,

In March 1963

+18 201-356902

• *ORDONO

Gibara, Cuba, A 12 837

in Miami and was given routine CAC processing.

The detaiis of this

processing

are contained in MIAM-0085, dated 12 March'

being released by CAC, ORDONO was interviewed by the IdentitywAVE

a sensational story was developed.

In view of this story,

tried to locate ORDONO for debriefing.

This effort was not productivy,

thus AMCARBON-1 was asked to locate ORDONO.

AMCARBON-1 did locate

ORDONO in Houston, Texas.

See WAVE-6307, dated 25 March 1963, for

details.

Discrediting Carlos BANDIN of the MRR Splinter Group.

In UFGW-2555,

Headquarters suggested that

JMWAVE might

of the MRR splinter group as a result of BANDIN's overinflated claims

relative to his faction invading Cuba.

Headquarters' interest in

discrediting BANDIN was also stimulated by the fact that BANDIN's

irresponsible publicity stunts were causing problems for AMBIDDY-1.

As a result of Headquarters' interest in this matter,

REUTEMAN had

a luncheon session with AMCARBON-1 on 24 September 1963,

AMCARBON-1 was advised that the BANDIN faction of the MRR was less

than accurate in its claims relative to its

activities in Cuba.

In view of this, REUTEMAN suggested that the Identity 3 might

to soft peddle any future war communiques which the BANDIN

might release.

AMCARBON-1 stated that,

in view of REUTEMAN'S

comments,

the.Identity 3 would not only soft peddle,

but would

ignore the BANDIN faction in the future.

Once BANDIN was discredited

with AMCARBON-1, the word was soon leaked by AMCARBON-1 to other

newspapermen that BANDIN was not a reliable

As a result

this action, the BANDIN group his received

minimal media coverage

in South Florida since September 1963.

OPERATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.

In the period February

to February 1964,

AMCARBON-I has furnished

JMWAVE with operational

intelligence as outlined below:

In WAVE 4836, dated 21 February 1963, AMCARBON-1

reported that AMBEND-1 was back in Miami and

the object of

great deal of press interest in view of AMBEND-1's release from

a Havana prison.

AMCARBON-1 also indicated that AMBEND-1 would

probably be a knowledgeable source on the current activities of the

UR in Cuba.

This operational intelligence was

most helpful

terms of keeping JMWAVE informed on AMBEND-l's

movements

Subsequent

developments revealed that AMCARBCN-1 could not contact AMBEND-1,

and thus AMBEND-l's return to the United States

did not cause the

publicity stir that was initially anticipated.

In WAVE 6176,

dated 22 March 1963, AMCARBON-1

reported

that the Identity 3 was ittempting to reseaich

feature article on the Bay of Pigs invasion.

The intent

article was to furnish a recapitulation

the entire

situation.

In this connection, AMCARBON-1 pointed out that he was

FORM

5-00

(40)

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

4.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-14781

thinking about exposing the role of Miami attorney Alex E.

ECARISON,

residing 145 Curtiss Parkway,

Miami Springs,

Bay of Pigs operation.

ALCARBON -1 stated

that, if CARLSON were

Identity 3 would

of any current interest to REUTERFUTENAN advised ANCARBON-1 that

soft peddle the CARLSON angle.

he had no interest in CARLSON but knew of him and was of the

opinion that CARLSON was a sound and honest attorney.

of this operational intelligence enabled JMWAVE to brief CARLSON

on the Identity 3's over-all interest in the role that CARLSON had

played in the Bay of Pigs invasion.

in turn,

enabled CARLSON to more adequately prepare himself

This briefing' for a meeting

with AMÇARBON-1.

While AMCARBON-1 did attempt to pursue this

Bay of Pigs story, he never did put anything

was overtaken by other developments before AMCARBON-1 could finish

his research.

AMCARBON-1 advised

JAWAVE that MY WAVEr PaRtSER, in assoclate editor sor the

Saturday Evening Post, was in Miami during July 1963 attempting

to research a story regarding the possibility that strategic

missiles were hidden in Cuban caves.

This information enabled

JMWAVE to keep Headquarters informed on sensational-type articles

which might be appearing relative to Soviet missiles in Cuba.

d.. In WAVE 4701, dated 20 September 1963, AMCARBON-1

gave JMWAVE

his resume of

the discussions which he

had with

AMBIDDY-1 at the Miami Playboy Club on 19

September 1963°ANBIDDY-1

information was useful

in obtaining an insight into what

was telling the press.

In WAVE 5661,

dated 10 October 1963,

AMCARBON -1

reported on a discussion that he had had on

10 October 1963 with

AMBIDDY-l's public relations man.

This operational intelligence

vas useful in terms of keeping KUBARK advised as to what AMBIDDY-1'S

representatives were

telling the outside world about their

operational activities.

In WAVE 6910, dated 31 October 1963, AMCARBON-1

informed JMWAVE about the

flood of telephone calls which were

received at the Identity 3 relative to so-called KUBARK

vessels which were located in South Florida waters.

information alerted JMWAVE to the fact that press scrutiny was

be directed toward the Identity 5.

Armed with this warn-

JMWAVE was able to take action which

minimized the publicity

repercussions from a renewed

press interest in the Identity 5.

In WAVE 7671,

dated 16 November 1963, AMCARBON-1

reported to JiWAVE the fact that he had received

a letter from

Peru which contained an

interesting operationa lead

Headquarters and the Lima

Carlos MONTALVANO in Puno station.

This lead was examinea

by JMWAVE,

This examination revealed

that the letter was written by a crackpot; thus!

real operational potential in this lead.

underscore

the fact that AMCARBON-1 is

willing to bring potentially significany

operational leads to JMWAVE's attention.

In WAVE 1614, dated 6 February 1964, AMCARBON-1

advised JHWAVE that he had received numerous telephone calls

indicating that Armando Andres GUIROLA Forte, who

had defected

from a Cuban fishing vessel might be an individual who had previously

seen in Miami during November or December 1963.

At the same

time, ANCARBON-1 pointed out that he was suspicious

and thought

these telephone calls indicated that GUIROLA was rot a bona

fide defector, but was either a GOC agent or a KUBARK

was being used as a means of creating an incident which would

embarrass the GOC, as a result of their fishing boats penetrating

500, 530 UBE PREVIOUS EDIT.ON.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

5.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

CONTINUATIO OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA -14781

United States territorial waters. REUTENAN advised AMCARBON-1

that KUBARK had played no role in mounting a provocation operation

against the GOC.

At the same time

REUTEMAN pointed out that

1t was highly unlikely that GUIROLA was a GOC agent.

of this conversation, arrangements

were made for JMWAVE to check

out certain aspects of the GUIROL! story.

At the same

AMCARBON-1 was prevailed upon not to write a story which might

lead the public to speculate on wether GUIROLA was an agent or a

plant in a propaganda play designed to embarrass the GOC.

PHOPAGANDA OUTLET.

AMCAKBON-1 has been used successfully,

could be surfaced in

the free world press.

Examples of how AMCARBON-1 has been harnessed

in this field are outlined below:

AMCRAB-1. The AMCRAB-1 defection story originally

surfaced ir the Miami area on 13 October 1963 via the Diario de

las Americas, which played up an API release from Montevideo.

The API Mortevideo

story highlighted AMCRAB-1's information

relative tc GOC activities in Uruguay.

The story in the Diario

de las Americas had an extremely limited impact on Spanish readers

in the Miani area.

As a result, it was decided to du a series

of feature stories on AMCRAB-I pointing up the fact

that AMCRAB-1

was typical of the veterans of

the Granna expedition;

who felt

they had been betrayed by CASTRO and had been relegated to positions

of obscurity once the revolution had put CASTRO in

AMCARBON - I

was briefed in detail on the AMCR/.B-1 story,

and he vas

given an

opportunity to debrief AMCRAB-l urder controlled conditions in a

JMWAVE safehouse.

After completirg his debriefing,

A.MCARBON -1

wrote a series of feature articles on AMCRAB-1.

The first article

in the series received front page headline play.

The series of

articles on AMCRAB-1 were well

written,

and they-provided an

excellent peg for JMWAVE to mount a replay operation via other

propaganda assets.

story on AMCRAB-1 was picked up

API and others,

and it was played throughout Latin America.

The details of this surfacing' can be found in WAVE

14 October 1963; WAVE 6092, dated 19 October 1963; and,

WAVE 6174,

dated 21 October 1963.

Charles GRIFFIN

Shrimp Boat Story.

On 26 February 1964,

IMWAVE learned that when Mr. Charles GRIFFIN'S sons went to Cuba

to reclaim the hijacked shrimp boat, JOHNNY REB, they found that

select items were missing from the boat when it

to them.

It was believed that this information would make a good

human interest story which JMWAVE assets could use to counter GOC

propaganda claims that United States officials had stolen items

from the Cusan fishing boats which had violated United States

Key West interview Mr. GRIFFIN.

This interview was carried out,

and an article outlining the points which were of interest to

IMWAVE was published in the 27 February 1964 edition of the

Identity 3.

LAYC StOYY:

The March 1964 LAYC meeting in santiago,

Chile, was not receiving appropriate coverage

South Florida

newspapers; as a result, REUTEMAN contacted AMCARBON-1 on 5 March

sungested that

the LAYC meeting was a story

AMCARBON-1 was grateful for this steering

tip, and

should pursue task of preparing the story on the LAYC

he assigned the

one of the members of his statf.

A story on the LAYC was

subsequently published in the 6 March 1964 edition of the Identity 3.

(COMMENT: Copies of the articles

cited in subparagraphs a through

c above are attached for Headquarters information.)

FORM

5.60

(40)

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATIONi

SECRE 'T

xx

PAGE NO.

6.

CONTINUED

---

## Page 8

14-00000

NINTHINA

-.....

POSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

Attempts have been made to

obtain disseminable positive intelligence from AMCARBON-1 during

the period covered by this report.

This attempt has been generally

unsuccessful, in that AMCARBON-1 does not have a great number

contacts in Latin America who would give him access

intelligence appreciably in advance of the infornation

in the overt press.

is a result, AMCARBON-1 is usually not aware of

inside developments in any Latin

American country; consequently,

he is not a worthwhile source of positive intelligence.

matter of fact, AMCARBON-1 is less valuable as a source of positive

intelligence than most journalists.

This is attributable solely

to his lack of long-standing contacts in the Latin American political

It is believed that AMCARBON-1 will ultimately overcome

this shortcoming; thus,

we will continue to attempt to harness him for

the collection of positive intelligence.

CONMENT.

In the period covered by this report, ANCARBON-I

Found to be a straight-forward individual who

cooperative and who understands the need for security.

relationship also indicates that AMCARBON-1 is an accurate reporter

of that information which he passes to KUBARK.

In view of this,

IMWAVE plans to continue to harness AMCARBON-1 in the same manner

that he has been used in the past.

It is believed that our rela-

tionship with

AMCARBON-1 enhances

our ability

to conduct our

operational mission in a secure

this relation-

Ship tends to minimize the possibility

*that JMWAVE might have diffi-

culties with the media outlets

the South Florida area.

result of our continuing relationship

AMCARBON-1, a special

activities report will be forwarded at appropriate intervals.

It is requested that a 201 number be assigned AMCARBON-1

and that JMWAVE be advised of the number.

END OF DISPATCH

ROOM 590 USE PREVIOUS EDIION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

301-746401

CONTINUED

7.

'.

---

## Page 9

14-00000

S.1;

TIE MIMIN MERALD

Erday, Murch G, 100t

Latin Youth Group in Chile

Organized by a Cuban Red

BY DON BOHNING'

Or our Lalis Amarica diall

small,

butsignific.nz

Nous

communist dominated,

Analysis

Santiago "i consideration of

nuiterous fetitions."

Sirce lis Leception.

Cuban

exile organizations in adiant

Cuban-inspired

have

heated

Latin youth

group

convenes Monday in

January,

1963,

attended only by Cuban.

propiganda campaign agalns!

Santlago, Chilc.

preparalory mecting for

the.

youth representatives.

Theme.

the Congress.

fiza

for the Congress was changed

A letter from a top Soviet

About 400

representatives

Second Congress nearly

of

Latin

yoult

offielal

American

youth

zled when the Cuban delcga-

10

Aldo

read "For the Liberation

Alvarez, leader of the Cuban,

organizations,

(oг

the

most

tion was detained In Mexico

of

Latin

America"

and

it

Preparation

part Communist oriented, are

on its way to Santiago. The

tork

Panamanian

representative

imperialist" lone.

more

"anti-

Nauishal

Cormittee for the

Congress,

expected to attend the second

was reproäiced and circulal.

Lalin American

Youth

flew fron Santiago to Mexico.

confer with

the

Cubans,

Noting

inore was

heard.

ed

by

exiles. ' In - 16,

gress.

then returned to Chile and

wntll mid-summor siith little

specilic irstructions for

от-

It has an Interossing.

Interost apparently being

ganiar.g

tie Congress

era

meeting resumed.

anatosy.

And

The

whother

July dale was set, an agenda

genoralad among Latin youth

outlized

Exile groups have promisid

dosign

or accilont, both il6

agreed

and

the

theme

ErOupS Tho DODETeSS TYaS TO-

on

representatives

timing and localo have pullt

"Fight

for scleduled

for

August

scal algallicanca

Peace" was adopted

Chile is one of five Latin

In March, howeyer, another ""fala dida't take place

aid

to

send

Santiago when

the Congress

*denounce the

which

To salvage lost prestige, It

convenes

Commusist effori lo

countries

still

rela.:..

"International":

was announced in late August

maintains • diplomatic

tions with Cuba. It also is

meeting was held in Cuba,

preparation.. the Conness would be held in

braiswash the youlh of Latin

America.*

considered the one most like-

1:010,160

ly to vote itself Communist.

Presidential elections will

be held in September, a leade ial

contender

is

Salvador

Allende,

candidate

Communist controled p thei

Jar

Action

Front

(FRAP).

Allende lost by 35,000 votes

in 1958 to outgoing president

Jorge Alessandri.

A, provincial election

nane a national deputy will

be

held

next weck, a day

after

the

Youth

Congress

closes. Outcom of the elec-i

tion may provide an indica-:

MIAMI HERALD

6 March 1964

tlon of which say the coun

try will go in September.

Plucipal organizor of thie

Youth

COngTOES 1p & 38-10-10}

joar old

Cuban

Commuist:

namod

Joaquin

MIDS

Martinez. A U.S. offlolal do.

scribica. him so

'ono of tho

brainles!"

tho

Castro'

followers.

Mas slepped in last fall!,

when the Congress, originally

scheduled for/July

of 1963,

faltered

Cuban exile groups

clalm he gets his Instructions

10r

the

Congress

directly

from Moscorv..

Mas, a former president of

Uio School of Soclal Science

at the Univerpity

of Huvana

'and now vice president of the

University

Student

Federa-

tion,

arrived

in

Chile in

Sopromiber.

Indornallorand

d'roparallos

Conunlised 105

tho

Congresa

Mallonal preparation Eroups

Urns to sprout up lo

othor

Lalin countrice at lio sario

unio.

Chilean authoritles ordered

hum expelled several Unies as

a "foreign agent" Each Umo

Contmurlst and Soclallat

party

officials intervence in

his bohall.

alas leit Chllo Nov, 20 for

Brazil, Bolivia and Venezucla

whero ho conferred wich

olier Communistleaders,

then went on lo Prague and

MoscoW.

returned to

Santlogo

Die. 26. He was nict at the

country.

This time Chilcan

Interior minister Dr. Solero

del Ro Intervened and Mas

como back.

i But for Mas, the Congress

may not have come olf.

:,It ls an outgrowth of tho

f1rat Lallon Anerican Youth

Congress held In

Cutsis

1000, It sas thero thio "Cuba

S1. Yanieo no" themo 18as

•201-7463.

nir

---

## Page 10

14-00000

CONtINUATION OF

DISPATCH

- CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPÄTCH SYMBOL AND

Separate Cover At ac.

B to UFGA-14781

Identities

-1-Gne Aliams News

2

3

- The Miami Herald

5

-(The LIEDA)(

IRANI PRECIA

LIP. EDI

B65 MICRO. SER.

on Affile

Enclitd

FORM

53a

(40).

to UFGA 14181

lISE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CS COPY

201-74 FACE.

CONTINUED

4/R

---

