# 104-10322-10101

## Page 1

AARnA

1704-10322-10101

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

29N0028

alone nas

OLCIASCA

sceckimadge

Voge

Jo078

11

DDCI

12 Don vara

DOSEIDE

By нSO

trop

LA DEC 1978

2 five

ACC: 1978

Ery no

St214

78-57213/1

SECRET SENS TIVE

BY HAND

610 USE PREOUS

I SECRET

2 CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAE

EUSE: ONLY

BE UNCLASSIFIED

Gee wittig

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET SENSITIVE

)

DD/0:76:7.248

Executive Registry

08-0213

29 November 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

VIA

:

Deputy Director for Operations

Acting Chief, Soviet/East European Division

FROM

Donald F. Vogel

DCSE/ ORP

SUBJECT

SIGNED BY

: Talking Paper for Briefing Chairman Stokes.,

HSCA, on KITTY HAWK

: Donald F. Vogel

DCSE/ORP

CONCURRENCE

: Deputy Director for Operations

ORIGINATED BY:

Donald F. Vogel

DCSE/ORP

ACTION

DISTRIBUTION

: Original - DDCI

- Executive Registry (dummy copy)

- DDO

1

1

ADDO

- DDO Registry (dummy copy)

- C/CI

- AC/SE

- DCSE/ORP

WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED

E2 IMPDET CL BY 007117

SECRET SENSITIVE

EMBOOGISE DESISTRY

PILE Spec INT F8

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET SENSITIVE

)

DD/0?8:2248

Executive'Ragistry

178-7213

29 November 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

VIA

Deputy Director for Operations

Acting Chief,

Soviet/East European Division

FROM

:

Donald F. Vogel

DCSE/ ORP

SUBJECT

: Talking Paper for Briefing Chairman Stokes,

HSCA, on KITTY HAWK

1. The Chief Counsel of the House Select Committee on

Assassination, Mr. G. Robert Blakey, has requested access to

"all reports and documents referring to an operation code

named KITTY HAWK, " which Mr. Blakey describes as "a project

concerning the debriefing of a

Soviet defector and a KGB

analysis of the Kennedy assassination." You propose to

provide Chairman Stokes an oral response to this request.

2. Chairman Stokes may be informed that "KITTY HAWK"

is not a defector but is a very sensitive

with whom we have

mention of KITTY HAWK

in the press in connection with the current investigation of

the fate of Nicholas SHADRIN,

an FBI-CIA double agent who

disappeared in 1975 while in Vienna for a meeting with the

KGB. In spite of the unfortunate publicity, however, KITTY

HAWK has apparently been able to survive KGB scrutiny thus

tar, and we continue to

abide by the Director's statutory

obligation to protect his identity.

3.

We have reviewed our holdings on KITTY HAWK and have

found no reference to any "KGB analysis of the Kennedy

assassination" or any other information pertinent to the

Committee's interest. Discussion of the assassination of

WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED

E2 IMPDET CL BY 007117

SECRET SENSITIVE

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET SENSITIVE

- 2-

President Kennedy took up only a small portion of the time

spent in debriefing KITTY HAWK.

You may wish to inform

Chairman Stokes that in 1966 KITTY HAWK volunteered his

s opposition

to Texas oil interests."

He added that he believed that the

KGB was embarking on a "disinformation" campaign to have

the assassination blamed on President Johnson, but he had no

specific details of this campaign.

KITTY HAWK also said that

he was "personally well acquainted" with Lee Harvey Oswald's

background because he had helped prepare the file on Oswald

which was turned over to the United States Government by

the Soviet Government. KITTY HAWK was not questioned further

on this point, and there is no further reference in the

KITTY HAWK file to any KGB or Soviet Government activity with

respect to the assassination.

4. Although strictly speaking it is not relevant to this

KGB considerable damage (more than Golitsyn) and that the KGB

was looking for Nosenko and intended to kill him if they found

him.

This is pertinent because those who hold to the theory

that Nosenko was a plant tend also to subscribe to the belief

that any KGB source or defector who supported Nosenko's bona

fides was also KGB-controlled.

into the assassination controversy can only serve the purpose

of obfuscation.

CONCUR:

Director

for Operations

Donald F. Vogel

22/11/78

Date

SECRET SENSITIVE

---

