[104-10267-10421| [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
t

Getoder 1963

1. A nncting was held with(L-9>frea 2000 to 7135 hours in B's car
(parkal in Tacuba) on 26 October,

2. (L-Dreported as follows:

y Jae Afew days earlier CotzXsolcnzaM, sister-in-Jhw of General
a Lazaro CAYEMAS, tolddLa9 with a groan of disgust that it looks
lize DIAZ Ordas has been chosen as the PRI presidential candidate,

b. The Anbsssador is still using the wall safe built into the chianey
of his office (we have photos of this 4n our files). {L-9) titnks
that the Embassy payrall is kept there as the other day when he
walked into the Ambassador's office he saw the Ambassador shut the
safe door == Dra, MAqiaDO was there, having just returned fron the

+s bank where she withdrew the payroll, Dra,XMAGiaDO handles the
payroll for the whole Enbassy. MeeGor Nip oat

Giahe confi leaving PCS for Havana on ls Novenbere

Pe een tr emer Tee rete geeceeeey
magus, \EGAsia leaving quite soon, No replacaant for hin has. “arrived.
Lasts hee
wettionen, {3 locking more and more Like a "aecurity type.” lie 1s a
ceqRD EY’ Rey 708 ("Leva 1a detuta 011i") and appears to by a convinced
yo Comuist, in the old days, before CAS TRABAL worked for
the Sherwin Williaas paint factory (L-9 thinks Sat in the States,
must have a recort on hin)" viich was’ ‘loon ted a-shat ; ats

Se plant ouned by 1-98 fathi

Madst

fee f.° Dra,*HAGIIDO secently told(L=9\that OBIA wan discourteous to her

: : when she first arrired here But that he has softened up 4 bit re-

\ : cently and now seems to "accept" her. Sho thinks this may be
because she lost two sons in the Revolution (no detoils given).
She complained that LLAGOSTERA sti doesn't accept her but JORRDY
seems to be coring around. (This nay by the usual rosontment caused
by a forale ina respmsible executive position).

€- Enbasay staff meetings are held evory Saturday morning froa 0900 oa
— usually lasting about two hours, They used to be held in the
"theater" out back under the new construction -but are now being held :
in the glessel-in terrace at the rear of the main butlding,
Fest, Moun
by Throe Marxiat etuty eroupe ard bring ert up in the Enbassy to
Anclude everyone on the staff, AGEL Hoa, hun as RCA to the
staffers, 1m ranrodiing this effort, These grows should be
orgmized within a week, (L-Dydreads the thouwht of aumitting to
thia indoctrination but realizes he must go slong with it),

sgontt |

