# 104-10247-10434

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10247-10434

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JRIG.

JM1T

.*T:

DATE:

:OMF:

SEARS: mand

WH/COG/OPS

1255

8 MAY 69

¡ SECRETANIAT DIASEMINATION

DEB

SECRET

WH8

О то 14018

О лечили го

PILE IN CO PILE MO. -

Flere. va.

RAN. EURG. SI. Clops. Fz

118118 m180

(chaserlicortanl

SECRET

Г

politel

roare and lions pilad)

rolorario number

CITE DIRECTOR 0 0 402

MEXICO CITY

INFO

PRIORITY WH/STAMI

PRIORITY

MADRID

TYPIC AMCHALK

1. ON 7 MAY WODISH HQS INFORMED THEY HAD REPORT FROM

LOCAL SOURCE THAT A MAJOR FELIX GUIN, HIGH OFFICER MINFAR,

WAS IN MEXICO AND WISHED DEFECT. SOURCE, WHO REPORTEDLY COT

INFO FROM GUIN'S BROTHER-IN-LAW

IN CHICAGO, SAID GUIN HAD

ARRIVED MEXICO RECENTLY ON OFFICIAL BUSINESS AND WISHED DEFECT

BECAUSE FEARED PURGES AT HOME. SID GUIN STAYING AT HOTEL

PANUCO IN MEXICO CITY, AND ADDED BROTHER-IN-LAW HAD DISCUSSED

MATTER WITH DEPT STATE. MORNING 7 MAY.

2. HQS UNABLE IDENTIFY MAJOR FELIX GUIN, AND INFORMAL

CHECK WITH STATE INDICATED NO ONE THERE AWARE OF CASE. IN

FiRTHER ATTEMPTING IDENTIFY FELIX GUIN, HQS PULLED FILE ON

COMANDANTE RAMON TOMAS GUIN DIAZ (201-142291). ONLY ITEM IN

FILE SINCE MARCH 66 IS VISA ACTION REQUEST FROM AMEMB MADRID

WHICH APPARENTLY FILED DIRECTLY IN RID AND NOT FORWARDED DESK.

VISA ACTION REQUEST DATED 10 MAR 69 AND NOTATIONS THEREON

CONTINUED

COOROIMATIMO OFFICERS

PICASIMO ORRICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---,.-

AUTHENICATHO

сот но.

:

}

---

## Page 2

14-00000

:

17:

IIT:

r:

•TE:

ALE BE CARTARIAT DISSILIMATION

FEN

MFS

MESSAGE FOOM

TOTAL CUPIES.

SECRET

tO INDER

07 PILE IN CO PILE NO.

ROUTING ANDION INITIALS - SEEN TY

•J ARTURNTO

jolltel

Г

SECRET.

pera cas limo 111001

PAGE 2

CITE DIRECTOR

49402

INDICATE NO DEROG TRACE RETURNED TO STATE 21 MARCH.

3. NODISH SOURCE RECONTACTED 8 MAY TO DOUBLE CHECK

NAME FELIX. SOURCE SAID GUIN'S FRIEND'S KNEW HIM AS FELIX

BUT BELIEVED REAL FIRST NAME WAS RAMON. CHECK OF PHONE

BOOKS REVEALS THERE IS A HOTEL PANUCO IN MEXICO CITY BUT

NONE IN MADRID.

4. BACKGROUND ON RAMON GUIN DIAZ FOLLOWS. RECRUITED IN

CUBA APR 63 ON BEHALF WOFIRM BY AMCHALK-S, DIRECTED TO REPORT

ON DISSIDENT MILITARY OFFICERS VIA SW. GUIN APPARENTLY MADE

LITTLE OR NO USE OF SW BECAUSE OF LACK OF CONFIDENCE IN SYSTEM.

LATER BECAME INVOLVED WITH ROLANDO CUBELAS, ANOTHER WOFIRM

AGENT, CUBELAS BECAME INVOLVED IN MANUEL ARTIME PLOT(WHICH

WAS NOT WOFIRM SPONSORED) TO ASSASSINATE FIDEL CASTRO, AND WAS

ARRESTED IN EARLY 66 ALONG WITH GUIN AND OTHERS.

7

170502230496456

WIDELY PUBLICIZED SHOW TRIAL

HTLD SLARCH 66 AND ALL INVOLVED FOUND GUILTY. UNABLE FOR

CONTINUED

RELEASINO OFFICER

COOROIMATIMO OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUL IN BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

batarded tree

PROHIBITED.

---+

UTHENTICATINI

COPY NO.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

. =

10a70-09.

R10:

жІт.

ATE:

ABLE ALCHETARIAT DISBEMIMATION

„РЕЛ

OMF:

KESSAG! FORN

TOTALL ORES

SECRAT

O NO INDEX

• PILE IN CA PILE MO.

ПЛАНГМ

FILE. vs.

SECRET

toaro one limo 1. cod)

PAGE 3

(01190).

"rosoranco.

CITE DIRECTOR 016403.

7

MOMENT DETERMINE SENTENCE, BUT TRIAL TRANSCHIPT REVEAIS

PRUSECUTION REQUESTED 30 YEARS FOR BOTH CUBELAS AND GUIN.

5. HAVE NO TRAVEL RECORD RAMON GUIN DIAZ, BUT HAVE

RECORD OF ONE RAMON GUIN ARENAL TRAVELING HAVANA-MADRID

19 JAN 69 ON CUBAN PP 012262. FROM GUIN'S VISA REQUEST

MENTIONED PARA 2 ABOVE, ARENAL IS HIS WIFE'S PATRONYMIC.

6. REQUEST QUKETCH AND LICONET OR OTHER APPROPRIATE

STATION ASSETS BE REQUESTED ATTEMPT LOCATE AND INTERVIEN RAMON

GUIN DIAZ WITHOUT SHOWING U.S. COVT INTEREST. AS BEST WE CAN

PIECE TOGETHER AT THIS POINT, SUBJ APPAKENTLY ARRIVED MADRID

19 JAN, APPLIED FOR U.S. VISA, THEN TRAVELED MEXICO AND IS AT

HOTEL PANUCO THERE. MOST OBVIOUS QUESTION WE WOULD LIKE

ANSWERED IS HOW AND WHY GUIN GOT OUT OF JAIL, COT PASSPORT

AND WAS ALLOWED TO LEAVE CUBA. ALSO INTERESTED CURRENT STATUS

CUBELAS.

7. ALSO REQUEST MADRID' CHECK WITH EMBASSY ON PARA 2

VISA REQUEST AND DETERMINE WHAT ACTION TAKEN ON IT.

CONTINUED

COORDIMATINO OFFICERS

RELEASINO OFFICER

sure and

Kindiseste

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

IUTHENTICATIA

FFICE

com No.

7

:

---

## Page 4

14-00000

•

MOUTIN, AND I INITIALS - SCEMEN

.-.

200:

11tT:

IT:

ХАТЕ:

•AM i SECRETARIAT OLESALIMATION

_ PER

1083:

SECRET

¿ но IMOR

BRANCH

Dole ar

Fus. va.

SECRET

(doro and liens lItaid,

PAGE 4

Г

------

CITE DIRECTOR

Latere

7

motors

_Wheel

01,402

7

8. FILE 201-142291.

END OF MESSAGE

EUR/C_

E/IB/S_

SONS SHEARDOO

C/E/FI/CI

WILLIAM V. BROE

C/HHD

:

RELEASIMO OFFICER

SSCRET

REPRODI ..ION EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFIC S PROHIBITED.

UTHENTICATINI

FFICE

---

