|104-10163-10019) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992| ~ i

os wae oo at oe

SECRET

LX 320
‘ < 16 May 1963

MEMORANDUM OF CONTACT -
supsect : [Jose Antonio CASAS Rodrigues\ 201327702)

DATE OF CONTACT : 2 May 1963 (2000 to 2345 Hours);
4 May 1963 (0200 to 1300 Hours).

: 1, On 1 May 1963 I travelled to Pennsvivanis.
| and attempted to contact Subject at his home le 10
at-1030 hours, Subject's gon answered the door and advised that his
out ror the evening and wasn't expected to return till 2200
2200 hours I returned to Subject's home to be advised that:
yet returned but was expected momentarily, - In view of the
1 requested the gon tell his father that a representative of
States Government had called and wished to speak to him on

At 2000 hours on 2 May I called at Subject's home and found
nt. Hoe was friendly and courteous, requesting that 2 come
home where I was introduced to his wife and several uf his six

8. Subject and his wife make an excellent impression. They
“ poceeded to put ms at ease, offered coffee, and generally showed them-
selves to bs excellent extroverted hosts. Tha subsequent conversation
wats ue; Jasted until approximately 2345 hours and was somewhat general in nstuse,
= Basteally we reiehed information already provided by Subject during

his debriefing by U.S. authorities in Miami and already roflected in his

1 file, Subject was rather difficult to debriof in that his English is
somewhat fractpred and he is extremely disorganized in his theaghts, ie
He-bas & tendency to Gevelop.one theme which in turn will renting him

“SECRET etal * worzgzeagg =a:

ro



SECRET

of a second, also of interest, which he will proceed to discuss to the
Confusion of the first. This problem was perhaps compounded by the
fact that Subject was uncertain as to the type of information of interest

- toKUBARK. He grasped quiculy, however, \he type of information
which would be of n:ost interest to us and it rapidly became less difficult
to get to the meat af the subject we were discussing. Further contact
and debriefing of him will become progressively lesa difficult.

4. We are consolidating the informatir., obtained from Subject r
from our two meetings with him on 2 and 4 May below for reporting
ced

5. Basically Subject is able to supply epecitie information of .
interest. on only five personalities. He knows and was acquainted with :
many other personalities in the Cuban government, but his relationship
with them is not close enough to enable him to provide information in 4

- gufficient detail or depth to allow valid assessinent as to ‘heir suscep-
tibility to a recruitment or other operational approach,

6. Information on five Cuban government officials, well known
to Subject is set forth below:

a, Esubio AZCUE, born about 1912, 1s presently eat
e asa ci ‘at the Cuban Embasay in Maxico

City. AZCUE is a long time friend of Subject. They met 4

during the mid-1950's when both were involved in revolu- fd

tionary aciivities attempting to bring about a democratic aes 2
alan socialist regime in Cuba. AZCUE is married to a Spanish —
woman and was involved in the Spanish revolution. He
was a <2ry close friend of Manolo “ASTRO who was

ly murdered by a group of Communist left wing

uy - k@veletionaries which included Fids1 CASTRO. About, —
: 196% AZCUE was living in France and is believed to have
been arrested by French suthorities on charges resulting
from his involvement in smuggling penicitia and other
Aantiblotics into France. Subject believes that AZCUE has $
a about five children. During ea:ly 1961 while in Nexico

City, AZCUE was contacted by Subject in order to obtain

re the advisability of his.defecting from the Castro
regime and requesting political asylum in Mexics, Asa \

SECRET, [stutaane

telat



weet ee ee ee

EGRET
-3-

result of this contact Subject obtained the impression that
AZCUE 1s suffesing from a lack of funds. Since AZCUE
is somewhat af a snob and a fancy dresser, he finds this
situation unpleasant. AZCUE also habitually has a mis-
tress vhich in turn ts a drain on his pockstbook,

(1) According to Subject, AZCUE is an

excellent drafts:nan who studied architecture
at the University of Habana, although he never
obtained a degree. Subject assesses him asa
kitcd man, very happy-go-lucky, but impetuous
and one who “blows with the wind", He doosn't
seem to have the powers of concentration or of

purpose which would ailow him to be suc-
cessful Subject feels that AZCUE has appended
Dimself to the Castro reginie since it offers him
a purpose In life and a feeling of belonging to
something.

@) Subject described AZCUE as being a
very brave ran. He felt that should AZCUE.be
approached by KUBARK and requested to coop-
erste, the physical danger inherent to in-place

cee Rgont'work would not affect his dacision. In

summary there would be a reascaable chance of

persuading AZCUE to cooperate with KUBARK if

a suitable monetary and Ideological inducement
“were offered him. Subject feels, on the basis of

their 1961 conversations in Mexico City, that

AZCUE is not too enthused about tha Castro regime

and it ls possible be has pecome even less in ee
cores" favor of it during the ensuing period, a os

8) Subjec: appended that it would be helpful
in any approach to AZCUE to attempt te convince
~ hun that Fidel CASTRO was directly involved in
tho "gangster" revolutionary group responsible for
Mi lo CASTRO's murder, AZCUE was a very
lose iriond of Manolo CASTRO's and was affected
greatly by his death,

: SEOTEL



ba Enrique RODR! Z Loeches: RODRIGUEZ was if
born aboot 1912 and is ently Coban Ambassador to
Morocco, RODRIGUEZ was involved for @ long Ume tn
Fevolutionary attempts to overthrow tha BATISTA and pre-
vious regin-es in Cuba. He was with CASTRO during the
1958-59 period in the Sierra Maestre. Subject became
acquainted with and a close friend of RODRIGUEZ when :
both were members of the sane so-called revolutionary _
“Directorio”, Subject alleges that itCDRIGUEZ has dis-
Uked CASTRO since their iret meeting during the 1958-59
period, Both Subject and his wite alleged to have received
a letter from RODRIGUEZ written in the sierra Maestre
in which he Usted his dislixe af CASTRO and among other .
things referred to hin using Ube Spanian equivalent of the
term "dirty prostitute", Subject advised that unfortunately
5 this letter has been.destroycd, Surject {s convinced that
- : ~s 7 “ff be met RODRIGUES on tbe etreet tomorrow the latter ;
‘would have no compunctions about eitung down for a long i +
Giscussion on old times es well as the Political situation. ~~ 1
in Cuba. Subject is also convinced that he could oa triendly
terms "talk defection o. recruita.ent” with RODRIGUEZ ’
should thoy have the opportunity to meet, f

¢. Orlando BLANCO, born ebout 1922, is married to
a woman rto Rican birth which makes her an American
- titizen. -BLANCO, according to the Latest information avail-
chhece' 7 |. -o-e_tabla. to KUBARK, is stationed with the Cuban Embassy in.
rod * Morocco with the rank of counselor. Subject met BLANC: +
when the latter became subordinate to him in the revolu-
| tionary "Directorio" working towards the overthrow of the a :
mn Baty me. Despite BLANCO's revolutionary actiyiticz,
: ., Subject assesses him as being relatively passive politically. _ pans
~~ ""* Both BLANCO and his wife. are believed to have applied for _
employment with the Cuban foreign service as a means of :
_ leaving Cuba. Subject feels it is possible they will not return 2
“to Cuba when thair tour in Moroces expires, During 1960-61
BLANCO was employed in ihe National Bank of Cuba, During
~-this-period Subject-obtained the impression that BLANCO. - ie 7
~ had become anti-Castro, Subject, bowever, assesses BLANCO i
88 & non-Courageous type of individea! who might be iright- ;
ened at the idea of working as an in-pisce agent. Asan :

-



SECRET

-5-

example of BLANCO's lack of courage, Subject cited the

fact that be aod his Wile atten.ped to avoid Subject‘s wife

While Subject was an anylee in the Argentine Embassy in
Habana. Incidentally, BLANCC's wife's name is isabelle

LAGO de Blanco andfihe is oa excellent terme with Sabject's OW
be Subject is *ppareutly convinced that BLANC G would
elkome an opportunity to meet with him Providing be wesw
Geoured that the fact of the bueeting would not become known

to bis Cutan superiors,

4, Faure CHOMON

270370): In ea
wa Y able to reiterate the background
information on CHOMON outUned in paragraph 5 of UFCW
1874, 13 January 1963, In order to place lis relationship
with CHOMON in perspective, Subject produced a personal

Qn example, he cited a difficulty in whitch CHOMON
“ involved during his tonure as Ambassador to the
~ USSR and while Subject waslatationed in MoscoW,. CHOMON CY.
at that toe was having an affair with a Rusatas translator/
secretary asaigned to him by the Soviets, This Pergon's
busband became knowledgeable of the relationship between
ore hs wile and CHOMON and beat on the door of the Cates
Emboszy ons day and proceeded to demand that CHOMON
Jeave his wife alone, Subsequently 2 formal protest was
received through Soviet foreign service channels, As a 4
Taille of thia incident, CLOMON asked Subject tdllake 2 2’
“walk with him (He didn't trust the Soviets and felt the
~ Cuban ¥mbagey cas buyged. } in omer to discuna this
Btobiom ami the possible Solutica for it, Although CHOMON
did not Specifically stete anything in this vein, Subject
the impression during the last two meetings in
the Axgentine Embassy in early 1962 that CHOMON was
but happy with his lot under the Castro regis,
Subject felt it would be worthwhile and alleged his willing-
yu@08 to prepare a “recruitment letter" for mailing to
CHOMON in Cuba, :

hoc POl2334089 48

ete. SEONET



SECRET
=6-

@. Floreal CHOMON Mediavilla was born about 1830
in Camaguey, and, according Co Iaiest KUBARK informa,
tion, 18 presently Charge d' Afta'rea of the Cuban Legation
in Iraq. Prior to this assignment, CHOMON was First
Secretary with the Cuban Ex:bassy in Biorocco. Subject
described CHOMON as a sensitive, slightly effeminate
individual who ig relatively aisinterested in politics. Sub-
ject feels that C110}:0N obtained the poaltion with the
Cuban foreign service by virtue oc ihe fact that he is Faure
CHOMON's brother, Subject {eels that F loreal CHOMON
would also welcome an opportunity to talk with him if the
fact of their meeting could be kept {rom tha Cuban govern-
ment. He speculated that any attenpt to gain CHOMON's
cooperation would depend on the position Faure CHOMON
bas assumed toward the Castro regime, Subject feels
that most of Flcreal CASTRO's decisions are based on the
attitude and opinion of his older brother Faure, Lf through
otters from or conversations with his older brother, Floreal
had obtained the impression that Faure was becoming dis-
extlefied with the Castro regime, be probably Ukewlae
‘Would assume such an attitude and conceivably be receptive
toa recruitment approach,

2, OPERATIONAL PROPOSALS: We are currently retracing
the individuals Usted In the preceeding paragraph, Upon completion of
these traces, it is suggested that a dispatch be prepared to Mexico City
Station outlining all information on Esubio AZCUE including that supplied
by Bubject. This dispatch would also outline Headquarters’ interest in
perhaps ving Subject in an operational approach to AZCUE, Mexico
City Station would be asked to describe the extent to which they could
Surpert och an operation through surveillance of AZCUE, locating hig

present residence and other information relative to ais current activities

and political orientation. (Comzasnt:) Wa discussed in principle with

the Subject whether or not he wiuld be willing to travel to Mexico City

with a KUBARK case officer for the pvrpoze of such an approach. Sub-
ject tentatively indicated his willingr.2e8 to cocperate in such a venture
but appeared to have some reservation re the danger that might accrue
him. He pointed out. that -be.has a wife and six chikiren to support and

‘s00n exp;cts to be joined by his father and mother-in-law who are cur-

, Fently in Miami, We attermpted to reassure Subject that very little danger

SECRET erghia



would be involved since ho would be under surveillance by KUBARK
officers at all times and would serve only as a means of effecting the
introduction of KUBARK to AZCUE, Although we cannot be certain,

we foo) that 1. properly presented Subject would cooperate with KUBARK
in such & venture,

8, The information reflected above and relating to RODRIGUEZ,
i BLANCO, Floreal CHOMON, and Faure CHOMON, will be made avail-
A abl; to SAS/}1 ‘n order to determine whether or not they may be interested
| in exploiting these leads, An operation involving the preparation of a
‘ etter by Subject for forwarding to Faure CHOMON would be simple to
: prepare but difficult to carry out in that we do not have a current home
address for him, Subject indicated that he celleved Faure CHOMION in
1061 Lived on First Street, #105, Apt. 7, in Ilabana. ilowever, we can-
not be sure that tis address is current, Subject indicated that perhaps
@av) San Pedro y Grillo ving at Anunciacion 10, 6th floor, in Madrid,
as-of 1091, is probably tr first wife or another relative cf Fau:s CHOMON,
She is allegedly the culural attache with the Cuban Embassy in Madrid,
Perhaps it would be ble to obtain CHOMON's eurrent address
8 bi Conceivably(COS Madrid|could ask _ xe
0 place ii err on this address and thus
Faure CHOMON'S current home address in Habana, assuming
be is corresponding with this individual,

21,8

Se ee a neers,

9, MISCELLANEOUS: We were cnly able to obtain the names

of two individuals from subject who he believed det!nitoly to be G-2
eificers, Thase were the individuals who accompanied Faure CHOMON
when be visited Subject in May of 1961 at the Argeniine En.bassy in

‘Habana, The first of these was Carlos FIGARELLO, aka El Chino,
FIGARELLO was born about 1930 and Subject was able to say little more
‘about him than this in as much as he spent most of the time during this

talking wth Faurs CHCRON, Os CHOBION's second visit to

the Argentine Embassy be was accompanied by (fnu) JIMENEZ, aka
Bimentte, aleo born about 1930 and the son of (fms) Santos JIMENEZ,
JIMENEZ wzs, according to Subject, at one time the director of the
revolution.ry newepaper Combate", Subject was unable to aupply
furthor iziormation on this individual,

4
rT

10,. Subject-was shown the KUBARK list of Cuban diplomatic
and consular perfonnel sbroad dated April 1963 and was abie to identify
@ number of individuals appearing on this list as known to him. These
individuals would be bauically FI leads and Subject indicated bs was not sscsisatt



i
i
i
|

~ SECRET
|

well acquainted enough to describe their Personalities or otherwise aid
in an operational approach to them. We are sting them below, how-
ever, in the event sorve of them may be. of specific operational interest
to SAS/F} components, Any individuals falllug into this category can be
the subject of future detailed debriefing on the occasion of my next meet-
ing with Subject.

“& Jorge SERGUERA Piviert, aka Papito, is
Cuban Ambassador to A!

the to Algeria. According to Subject,

“" BERGUERA Is a homi

Ob Eduardo MACHADO Cartas, ‘born about 1925 in

of Lajas, Cuba, ‘fs presently eniployed as the Cubana Airlines
representative in Canada according to latest KUBARK.
information, Subject hasn't seen MACHADO for about
twenty years, but used to know him well in that he dated
MACHADO's sister and in this fashion met him and the

©. Jove BARRIAL : Subject believes this
r+. BAme appearing on tho K! Ist to be incorrect,
BARRIAL is listed as Charge d' Affaires, minister coun-
Selor xt tle Cuban Embassy in Chile, Subject knew an
individual of this name who was associated with the same
Fevobutlonary group to which Manolo CASTRO belonged.

(4. Manvel PAYAN Viego 1s originally from Siego de
Avila, Cubs.” Dur! ‘A's regime, PAYAN was -
studying in Spain. Subject does not believe PAYAN to be
a Communist. PAYAN's wife is believed to be identical] with
Marin Antonio RODRIGUEZ de Pars sho ts slo iisied aa
&& Gmployes of the Cuban Embassy in Chile.

@. Oscar PINO Santos, Cuban Ambassador to China,

is an acgi ject. Subject was unable to provide
further worthwhile information on PINO.

f. Flora DIAZ Parrado, born about 1910, 1s currently
eraployed as a counselor with the Cuban Embassy in France.
Subject believes that DIAZ is apolitical and has been 2 mam-
ber of ihe foreign service for a long time. He also believes

seoner =!



“£ “to the Cubana Airlines represe:

GRET

her to be homosexual,

g. Juan David POSADA is currently employed as cul-
tural counse! with t Embassy in France. Subject
describes POSADA as an “arty type” who is an excellent
caricaturist.

bh, Manvel R. MORALES, Usted as an attache with
the Cuban Eni sy In France, is believed by Subject tu
be identical with an individual he. met who used the nick-
name Tiburon who was an athlete at Habana University
and from Santiago de Cuba.

4, Gustavo MEDIAVILLA de la Pena is listed as com-
mercial altache with the Cuban Embassy in Germany,
Subject was acquainted with an individual with this name
who was a cousin of the CHOMON brothers.

§. Lionel ALONSO Fiel is believed by Subject to be
@ young man wi Ww irom Matanzas Province and
who is now Charge d' Affsires with the Cuban Embassy
in Indonesia.

& Gustavo ROBRENO Dols, aka El Mago ROBRENO,
1s Usted as an altache with the Cuban Embasay in Indonesia,
Subject describes ROBRENO as a very unstab)s individual,
Once while drunk, he shot an American in a Cuban bar,

He is married to a former prostitute.

L Jose R, LINARES De!cado fe listed as an attache
with the Coban Embassy fn rag. Subject believes he was
at one time acquainted vith LINARES who was connected
with the Manoio CASTRO grevy ai the University of Habana,
Subject describes LINARES as a slender individual with &
Pisasant personality. He ia a mulatio,

m, Gustavo ARCOS x Bargnee is listed as Ambassacor
to Balgtum mi 7 Teaident in Brussels, cub-
stated ARCOS' brother was killed in Santingo de Cuba

on 26 July 1953 during the attack on the "Moncada".

n, Terese PROENZA, sted ee cultural attache, Yaird
Secretary with the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, is related
eo, “Subject

secret [Tizaai

i
1
i



SECRET

-10-

described PROENZA as a cold-blooded enictionless woman
Who is nicknamed "the mummy",

0. Sitvino SORREGUY Matos is Usted as the Cuban
Minister to Saudl Arabia with realdence in Cairo. Subject
knows SORHEGUY to have been once a Cuban foreign ser-
vice representative to “lorduras and to havo been declared
PNG by that country,

P. Jose Antonio PULIDO y Ledesma is listed as consul
to the mbassy 2. ject knows PULIDO.
as being a good friend of Enrique RODRIGUEZ Loeche,
Ambassador to Morocco, :

@. Armando PEREZ Pinto is Ucted as commercial
counselor mz in the USSR, Subject
believes PEREZ is not of Cuban birth, but from Haiti,
Subject could only say that PEREZ was a nice young man,

born about 1935, who did not give the impression of being
& rabid Communist,

i
| ‘ ite ¥. Juan JUARBE y Juarhs is Usted as the counselor
of tho Cilban Delegatioe io ths United Nations,” Subject koowe
i SJUARBE and thinks be is Puerto Rican or Voueguelan by
> Birth rather than a Cuban,
t

*

8. Laura MENESES de Albizu Campos: According to
a ‘a not & not sure of her
pettonaltty, . Although-he met MENESES hs is unable to-
supply further significant date,

t. Gilberto MEDIAVILLA te Meted ag n third secretary
of the Cuban Delogation to the United Natlous. Subject sus-
pects that MEDIAVILLA ts 2 ccusia to the CHOMON brothers, a)
AL, Orlando PEREZ was met by Subject during {his tour in Moscow)
PEREZ was the Charge d! Affetrye nt tie Caben Embasay in Moscow,
Subject became slightly aciusinted with PEREZ ani obtained the impres-
ion that PEREZ is not pro-Castro. He is marriott to an American
citizen, Rina PEREZ, neo Grogaman, PEREZ. has since quit the foreign
service and cecupios 2 sostton xith iis Nuiional Bank of Cuba.

SECRET, poessiaed 9



SEG.T

- 11-

during the 1058-59 Poriod through an individual who ho knew cnly ag

Gm) GONZALEZ. GONZALEZ apparently in turn obtained the weapons
from a (imu) SAGARO who was a reaident of Santiago de Cuba, of even
more interest, Subject stated that CONZALEZ waa, during thia same
period, in contact with Otto SKORZENY in Madrid and Belgium, sub-
dect could no longer remember where he had heard this information and
Could only add that as ha remembered, GONZALEZ had seen SKORZENY |
in Madrid and Srussels, Belgium, during this period. it is felt that this
Piece of information m>y be of more than normal Significance in that we
recall having been told several years ago that SKORZENY was of opera-

18. Raul RODRIGUEZ Feo is, according to Subject, a profes-
Stonal in the Cuban foreign service, Subject does not know for certain
where RODRIGUEZ is presently stationed but suspects he is in Habana,
RODRIGUEZ, does not ar in the KUBARK lst of Cuban diplomats
abroad, RODRIGUEZ'ts 2 good friend of Subject and his wife, and Sub. o¥
fect's wite has known Mrs. RODRIGUEZ since both were small gla]
IGUZZ was born about 1912 and studied at the University of Hal s
Ho and Subject attendad the same Secondary schools in Sagua La Grands,
Cuba, Subject states tint RODRIGUEZ is definitely not a Communist
and probably would Coonsrate in any.ent!-Casira aCUvily KUBARK might
vaak of him,

14, Carlos LAC was born about 1923 in Cuba and jag Cortifisd
Public Acecinlant, subject 1s good friends with LAO tn that both of them
Worked together in attempting to overthrow the Batista regime. LAO
Tetugved to the United Siates from Cuba in October 1962 and now ives
in Willerale, Miinnesots, Subject volunteered LAO'a RAMS 25 on lndivide

a5 an

ual who knows everybody of any atentficancs fn Holguin, Cuba, and the

surrounding area,
St



SECHET

-12-

15. UFGA 7428, 31 January 1963, contains information obtained
by JMWAVE regarding Subject and indicated him to be emotlonally un-
stable, eccentric, and generally reputed to be something of a mt. We
are inclined to agree with this information in so far ag Subject's eco-
nomical theory 43 concerned, During his stay of almost one year as
an asylee in the-aszentine Embassy tn Habana, Subject spent the copious
spare time available to him writing an economic treatise. On our meet-
ing with Subject on May 4th, Subject provided us with a handwritten
short summary of this docament, According to this summary, Subject
has been attempting to correlate economic cycles with peaks of sunspot
activity, He backs up his "economic argument” with reference to the
Old Testament and the Aztec Calendar. If Subject has been ex;
this thoory in public we are not surprised that he is considered some-
what of a nut. It should be noted, however, that many otherwise sane
and useful people believe in horoscopes and other similar Superstitions,
Woe do not feel that this quirk in his Personality must necessarily be con-
sidered derogatory in terms of his possible operational exploitation by
KUBARK, Although we have spent less than ten hours with Subject, our
impression is that be is a rational individual in terms of hie attitude
towards and relationships with other individuals and personalities around
him, Asa matter af fact, we obtained the impression that Subject pos-
gesses more than his fair share of what is sometimes termed “common
sense". The handwritten summary of Subject's economic theory as per-
taining to cunspots is appe.~ied to this memorandum as attachment,

Attachment: Herewith

As stated above o3
GP:eab Galen Pe:
Cay
Distribution;
Orig & H - G/sas/ci (chrono copy)

'14327702\-(Jose Antonio CASAS Rodriguez S
1- C/SAS (info oe zai :

: me gov 213334089

