# 104-10187-10002

## Page 1

104-10187-10002

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

HOOSH GIT COMTT 0S506616AT1005 6A68 41015

FILL TITLI/NU

ILE /VOLUTI: LLEMPTY/ LIMITED

Base House

INCLUSTVE DATES: 25 Juir 1957 - 8 Apr 1911

CUSTODLAL UNIS/LOCATION: BALDDO

ROOM: 3C34

DELETIONS,

ANY:

TAT!

TAN:

RECEIVED

RETURNED

15. le lI

85 JUL 1973

10/31

15 NOV. 28

12/20,8

10/31

REVIE BY

(UPINT VALE)

i tailwan

HAN Hit 29:27

HARDWAY

Hardway

DAN HARRAY

DANU HARDWAY

TENTIN: OF

REVLENING OFFICIAL.

Join Handwas

is Hardwar

Hardway

Hardway

Hardway

NDFACTOR

NO NOGUNENTES MAY ME COME CE SONED FAS TIS FILE

DER

20194

50-6-71/5-406609p512

(SorTerly LIPSTICK/LIMITED 50-6.25/9)

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO IP /RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

FORs

2593

17-131

---

## Page 3

CRASHINATI

DISPATCH

i969s

axing sity

50-8-85/3

ROM

i Corneronel/LIPsTick Operations

See belon

109A-L2257

іна

1. Tie LiCA (502-1510, LUCUC (S0625/8) Nd TOASO (SOOK/)

assets indor the LiPSTICK Projoot have desi tranaferred to Project LePTi.

¿oes ¿ a station moh to havo tha LISITi Projeit (50-6-76) broten dona ids

secarate files for each of these operationa? Il 8o, ploads do soriso

Headquartors.

2.. Unlesa adriend to the contrary by the spilton, tie LADeniO (506-25/6)

aid LIJAT (50-6-25/7) Operational flos vill be potired sain the LIPSTICk

Illos since thebo tro assata are so longer 1o ta

GIVER O. BALFOND

28 isctober 1958

3 - Mexicu ilty

HOLM

rigi g]

Use TOMOUS STATICHE

PRAKAS

SIA 1O SI

---

## Page 4

VIA:

*ffr Pouch :

FACET ANA DR SEA TOUCHI

DISPATCH NO FESA-J0U52

SECRETON

TO

FROM

SUBJECT: CENERM-

Chies, Mu Divlalon

DATE: 18 June 1958

Chief of Statton, Mexico CIty

Visitor to Soviet Inbassy, Mexico

Indians Licease DS 5567,

, 1956

Reference:

MAXI 1616

DIR 24173

DIR 2li438

ACTION REQUESTED: None

Attached are two photographs taken on 21 May 1958 by LIPSTICK

The correct licenge number 1s DE 5567 and not 5667 as stated

In NEXT 1616.

2.

It 1s requested that Feadquarters solve this license number

and identify if possible the two persons shown in the enclosed photograph.

Millas Cortis

FRag/bet

16 June 58

Distribution

3 - Egs

2 - Files

50-6-25/9

токи

MEISTO 51-28A

eS copy

---

## Page 5

SE.3

18i!".

CLASSIFIED BERSACE

DeCUTING

ORAS

UNIT

EXT.

DiATE

Li do

2555

26 DECE SP. 1957

* MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CON :: hH 5

INFO ..

CI, CI/OPS, F8, M/OPS, SR 4, S/C 2

LIST

¿ 11:57

Nnus

DEfERRED

ROUTINE

PRiORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

SUT77023

•TO

KEXI

INFO

CITE DIR

00822

RE MEXI 0791 (Lil 49690) *

1, REF LICENSE ISSUSU ARDY SUTO'IO, 309 N0ITH ILLICHESTER ST, AILINGTON,

E PLOTIE.

3. AUG 1957 WASH TELONUNG 1. UN LISE PILL THÖNS LEIT C 3091

MANGESTER ST, APLICIO, VA. PESIK WUKKS FUN IEU TU UE INDUISIAN ETR.

LO SUTONO HAS N: PULICE PECORN LOS CHA.

die ii.

REGULSTER DENER 57 VIRGINHA LICENSE 213832.

CAR SPENT ONE-HALF HOUR SOV ENB 2 DEC 5%.

TWO MEN PROM THIS

coo

TINO OFFIC

p in derein

F.

IND

S-F-C-a-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY CTHER THAN THE ISSUING. OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Na

---

## Page 6

FROM:

ACTION

CABLE

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Accession No. -

4.9698

Dato Receivod SA -

DATA

To

RooM

No.

INTTiALS

Rereirod

Forwardoe

1x-4242,

Munico

bitt

3.

7.

8.

9.

10. : Cable

desk

Each comment should be numbered to correspond with number in To column.

A line should bo trawn across sheet under each comment.

Oficer designations should bo useil in To column.

Each oflicer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing

Action desired or action taken should be indicated in Comments column.

Routing sheet should always be roturned to registry.

For officer designations see separate sheat.

SECRET

---

## Page 7

DATE

375: 0L0 JB 013

21 DEC 1957

CLASSIFIED TRESSAGE

"FURET

ROUTING

•DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

FROM

ACTION

INFO

HOUTINE

Cl,

IN 49698

aT: -MEXI 0791

NO

DIR

1. REQUEST SPLUTION 57 VIRGINIA LICENSE 246832.

TINO MEN FROM

THIS CAR SPENT GHF-HALF HOUR SOVEMB 2 DEC 5%.

2.

SOURCE LIPSTICK/LIMITED. EVAL PHOTOGRAPHIC. DIST NONE.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROHIBITED. Copy Na

---

## Page 8

BRICO

LIPSTiCK.

Пертої

(2.)

Emma 8773

27110057

In tili

I9uy 1Ei0 deadlis List 0ti0

Aguad Thaly evoy so

Bo that surtas silas will contilo orrunt botareal of t1020 j002723.

In editalon to to shotus gilic cover to,

EctlVity lil end out as tho sus gito, suttra tos a autry or detien,

to clort the da tre donistro of unci Listici arsiclulo valen the

sauco city sertion tu unior artollianes..

210 35 es sula and dilly

Loga o cura to stubini no alica thou to triti uno tiros tha:

LimiED

---

## Page 9

AIR

120: -= 1776

Chief, WiD

Chiat of Station, Mardoo

Operational

intenden Indiridual(s) Intering Soviet Dabasay

ACTIUN REQUESTED. A. DOsANtRItiOn tO KUSODA

B. No diasemination outaida KUBAH.

17 July 1957

li: Attached aro to photographa of an individual seon ontaring the

Sorlet kimbassy during lay 1957.

i For No

For Headquarters Only!

debarren ho, To do aboo made ratly rosenble Ben S.

Copios of sach of these photograjha have been aven to thö dooursty

Officer, U.S. Aaliassy, Maxico, tith a covering mencrandur shiel atatod

thạ to

Theso sere photographs of ono (or two) Individual (s), tho

appeared to be Aserican(a), enterias tha Soviet Enbassy in Mosaico

City durig May 19578

Do Our source sas sonaltive,

Neither this office nor our organisation lose to ta rovealod

as the source of those photographs;

and do The idartitles of the person(a) in these protographs were not

known.

The attached are forardod for Headguartars Information and sacorda

only. It 19 requested that no diesentation to made, arceut to MUSODA

and ki thin suhal.

Hillard E. CURTIS

snel..

Diatributions

3 - 1129(4/2 photos attached)

SECRET

50-6-259

COYY

---

## Page 10

14-00000

ABSTRACT STON I 6074, 6 Zeb 57 res LIPSTICE Monthly report - Nov, 1956

1. Operationali

LIMITED as operated as a lispatch and photographic ourvetllance bage

throughout this reporting perion. Occupants frum several autorobilos

bearing US liconse plates vere observed entertne the LIMERICK instal;

Lation. Theso loada have been transnittod to Headquarters in separate

dispatches and have been passed locally to onaivy. One special opera-

tion involving fURIOT teemicians was supported by this bass during thie

period.. The base personnel have continued to nairitain thelr high stando

ard of efficioncy and security.

---

## Page 11

14-00000

AIR

REF ISENCESS

¿ Chios of stallon, teasco CIty

• Chiler, "HD

= Operatfonal Mattory

-Identification of Sortol Intelligenco Utiloere

ПоцА LISOrInG

14iA-4016, 19 January 1956

IC-A-1042, 23 Jesuary 1956

88 Jano 1956

IX: A-4505, 16 May 1256

In addition to KIZ and Ri esplanos, 41u er, layeos aleo into aocesa

to slochina supplo dapots.. In vlas os tilo, so conclusion con bo

dram iron the infarcialon subaltied la rorerancon A and D.

J. Co KING

F. P. HOLCOHB

AC/ANID

28 Juro 1956

+18451591210538

3 - taxico

1

_#H/Chrono

KH/1a1lroom

• RI

- RESCAP

hH/III/

P. P. HOLCONS, AC/-HD

H. GALRRAITH

---

## Page 12

ORIE

UNIT

DATE

577 8

BRATY

455 -

16 PTATUART 1956

B2XICO CITY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

A CIAT

ROM

CONF

SNiFO

WH 5

FI, FI/OPS, Fi/QI 2, TSS 4, OC 5, 9/C 2

DIR 48424 (OUT 71205)

TOS ITTI

19292 17 FEB 56

CITE: DIR

ROUTINE

RIETOTHEC

PR 15,07 404 (IN 17192)

1. KUBARK NICULATIONS STATT OPTRATIOAL PROPERTY IF SO FURTHER

UST OFF BY DISPOSTD CE AID NOT RENTED.

2. SUCO ST RSVIST ALI. BASE HOUSE POSSIEDTITTTS ATTICENT LIFRICK

TO METRIUME. BIST U'S FOR PHOTOGRAPBIC PURFOSTS SIFORE, LAKING ANY

DECISION REGARDITO DISPOSAL PRESENT LIITIPD SITE.

FID ME MISSAGE

OTRICER

Ahloradhait

SPCRAT

ELEADINO OOFICER

AJIHESTIGATINO DEFICEN

IT IS FORTIODEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE COpy NO.

---

## Page 13

ROM:

ACTION

CABLE

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Accession No.

Date Rocoivod SA

33459

To

1:

3

Brady

3.

Rocks

No.

DATa

Roceived

15,558

Forwardod

16/x/16

INITEAL

хідс

наів

EB

DATE CENTRES

15 feh56

7.

ACTISE 73

ACTE 1 2IR -48490

ай - 20205;

2 Delai

9.

10.

Cablo

desk

File

KAPPER

/ Limited

Each commeat should be numbered to currespond with number in To column.

A line should be drawn across shock under each comment

Officer designations should bo used in To column.

Each officer should initial (check mark insuficient) before further routing

Action desired or action taken should be indicated in Comments column.

Routing sheet should always be returned to registry.

For officer designations see separste sheet

SECRET

C189 51-19

(1830)

---

## Page 14

DATE:

TO.:

FROM:

ACTION:

INFO

447

14 FEBRUARY 1956

DI RECTOR

VE XICO CITY

CLASS FIED MESSAGE

SECRET

, Fi/OPS, F1/RI 2, TSS 4, OÇ 5, S/C 2

MEXI 475 (IN 23459)

TO: DIR

RE: MSXI 434 (IN 17492)

02462 15 FEB 56

ROUTINE.

FHECHOENET

CITED MEXI

CONSIDERING POSSIBILITY RENTING LIAITED TO LEGITIMATE

FAMILY TO DIVERT SOV SUSPICION. WILL THEN NEED LILYRIC SOLELY

•FOR PHOTO HOUSE AND FEEL RAPPER OPERATION MIGHT THEN COMPRORiISE

ONLY PHOTO HOUSE THEREFORE WILL KEEP RAPPER WITH LIPSTICK 12

AND RETAIN HIM ON TEAM. UNLESS HQS OBJECTS.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

IT IS FORBINDEN TO MAKE À COPY OF THIS MESSAGE COM NO

---

## Page 15

0000i

LIPSTICK /C

Here 2001

19. on st

8 Chlos of Stillon, Maxloo CIty

Chins, tHD

- Operational

•LIPSTICK/LIMIT:D

REFERENCES.

47614-3797, 1574-3822

1454A - 3886

1a. Thero appeara to do ino coror problemo invulvou in the LIftIla/linlia

aparation. Troto are, the styalcal conor oi the unso of operations and

tho personal covor of LI. TIlé-ll, the princioni apent.

Headruurtors

aprons that there sould de soro suourity attached to lno payvical cover

1f 1t had a logitinato businese front.

•It 1o not calloved, noveror, that

at this stago the physiaal cover vould be taproved by suddenly openine up

an airloulture Inglesent socusary rupply house there, prosuring that

the o1s0 and locallos us the base vuse nare siaolblo for suci a tuatess.

The Imalvarit of LP!Tlik ly and David N. Wilslod In tho oferstion,

ourtadted under this bualitos covur urrangorant, could concalvubly affect the.

conjurtsortation of tho Wittili opsrailou, vitoh, as tho alation haa

pointed out, has baen mintaned with consideradla difficaty.

2.

llosdnuirters.dous not foel that the altuation lo us crielcal as exprosead by

tho station bocause al uta question asked of LIV: Trul-a ly ilo cordos

contacto

it appaara sost nitural for lim soviete to ausject, parulcularly

.1n thio lossophoro, that they are beina subjeotad to photo faphie as vell

as al'ocher types o! surveillance.

Beliu, alerted to lilo schlon thoy rould

naturally lite to bion are about the day her sellulty siotted si che

LIPSTICK/LIMITal bang house would ondy increase chla clortiasa and sroucs

their suarucians.

These suspicions would te further nepravated by

employment of a sotor car al to LIfTICk/illlia) tase hours

thda t1 mo

no car has boen in uso.

Handqurtors doos lot afreu shat a car

Is needed in tie day to day sork of thia oparation.

Is ana bore employad

1t would only further spot liant the love house for cho coilets. In i

addition, it is not clour just uho rould la unine tha autocobilo aince

3618T

---

## Page 16

H0C11-2807

Pago a

ho

and no other porsonnel adli do viallingto hours on a rogular baala.

If at tha incopelas of la MP: TICKLIiT-D armiation a losteleste

bolnusa covor har Doon sa8 1i lE voule lavo Doon soro socuro Liar cho

1al0ss.50s0 natural aid 108-3usp1cioua arouolne coror

can do tortod out Handjuarcars foBlo that lt l9 noro socura to continuo

che oiuration undor the progant arringamond shes do 8e8 up the burloses

curor suggossod in 1041-5797.

Tho prodlom of the portani covor for lIMITICial, can hast to solvad by a

salary Inorereo for 110 arento

so cho santian hon alreay polntor out

•ratIciall's salary of ell pasos 10r sorth to 1oll balow cha salario

corned by aronia parioniar casurablo dutieo, In Vair of lilo ari sa

a remard sor LIveTluial's mod soris and dii Incentivo for Iuprovazone

Headjuartero authorineo this do to paid a salary as 1500 pesos por solita

effectivo l vanuary 1950.

J. c. XING

CHiH

11 JanuaSy 1956

patributions

3 = Merlos

1 - WH/Chrono

1 - Wi Mallroom

"I' ~ Subjoct

1 - RI

WH/ITI/JBrady/Ju

J.

C.

KING

0. M. DOFALI. TINGES

---

## Page 17

14-00000

LIPSTiCK/C

SECRET

AIR

HM: 01-3797

8 December 1955

Gutes of Station, Morioo

Oporational

LIPSTIC:: AIMITID

AT17i8

REF I HIS: -2623, 25 Uot. 1955

1.

LIPSTICK-14 and Mia family ocou, 101 to LISTICK/LINITAD baso house

on d Novonbur 1954..

on 10 Noverbor 1955 Howard U. MUSGillis was picted

up by LIlSTICK-1l in a ranted car aid drivon into

tHe baDO.. MISCHIANO

stayed uti LIl: TICial that erure day inotricting him in photo,raphlo

rochniquo an inkina ayproximately 200 picturos.

The appeurance of the

house duria; tils tire of opuration was alecied by the unicraignud and

Chestor U. FOLLIDOVE No word initilo to discover my outward indicatlong

of lie axiytonco of tie photo raphic airveillance. LI-sTICK-li has don-

tinueil to inprove althouid tho quantity has decriased on our instrictons.

It was declioi til 11 rould bo to our ulumato advania a to haso fewor

photograjis and havo ListIck-la continue to corduct ilo rursal houso-to-

house book lualneas for covcr purpases.

?.

Inittally all filis vore procossed in the Stition do tit loSclino

• could proceso than lo lie fullesi aivatege ad ticu. critique tien nit

low the proceduro anilojod 19 to havo POLLICOVE pick up the

Mins frun LrPSTICK-14 and ilve tien to James U, Arufil bio processon them

and returro them to l'ULLIivE for transmittal to the offico for 1dentifi

cation; indexis ad flling bj 1030:10.

this procelure was adoptod

DAGUSO MCALL baB aware of the aristaice of tis oporation uni know LIP-

STICK-ll was anployod by tile station, but LlijilCk-l4 does riot iron irat

AXCALL is emplojad by tila Station.

the motographic results of this

overation w11l bo transnitted to ileadiuartors in subsoquer: dispatales.

3.

Tho altiation nt presert soino to bu pro rossirg in A noot satisfactory

manner tits the

excoution of bellovadio and adequate

cover.

Reforenco

discussed to cover altuation anu raised several po:rta mile! will be subo

soquestly discussod in tils dibjate..

Initialli, it say to 3a11 tet a

unialled lun l iradatreat investlintion of lie oxygen aupply liairess in

Modeo Cit corducted by LItINIR and ocher factors defiidial, oliminatos

Fanged

SECRET

50.186-3

---

## Page 18

14-00000

SECRE

•3797

8 joc. 1955

this potestial cover froc cunalüerstion, (Cory attagied as Atlacuent No. 1)

Wien the underolined diaciased tils ositle oover at lee quarters he

based le statenunts upon the assuraces of choists wo had analdorably

ovoral pilled the sitiation. Do ortali cover proa a mative of ano of

the LIPSTICK toan Mio moulu use the praises rant free far is business and

thus supply cover 1s not vloved wit favor ly this Station. Mrot, Mohave

cone to considerule difficult tempertcut lus operation frum every

armber of tie LIrslICk leage futier, ard in resile, the prinepal reasor

for our Inability to inalcont headyrters sirestion, 1a that tere 1a

no one in the prosart complex ido Milla tue reguirebents.

do It should be repeated fos espresis that thile operation nueds sono far

of bus!ross cover to coutinue to suncon socural.

possiblo sulutions to

nilo protion we querted loridf. wilitty wo suiroated

to us wiat no foal la tie vor test pssible suluton ava:ladlo.

conduct of a covor businoss siouli cirrora as clusalj as possible to a

1 citinate buolness.

In order to axcuct to business as close to tils

queal no possible line must bu a corralation betraca tin degreo of success

and to deiroo al busi:oss exerlanca aid sourer possessed di those in

charge of to tusiness. Sirio die arined businass espariore of trie

officers of trio station could not sunrentee vie successful conduct of

a businesu; 1t lolcally bohooves us to have the businass cordueted by

someone wio la skilled aid expertenced in the dally ¿rection of a tualroas

and who has proven himsolf suocessfil in tiis ris;net.

50:

LIVSTICK-19 has such a backgrour ail would le sillin; to asolt us

In this operation.

(In regard to his lusiness emerience as success,

the mny documents sumitted in support of variaN. MUsial's pronotion

and cover situation siould be corsulied.) It souli niso de remeribered

that he 1s a clerred agent in mion. tils

Station roposes cunsiderable con-

Manico wilch has toer: conplotol fastled by his icrotad and conscientious

work.

LISTICK-19 wouli be assisted in thr curuuct of tis business by

David M. WILSID kio is also experienced 11: tie conduct of bisiness in :

Maxico City:

There would not, hotever, be any breakion of compartmentation

SiNCe LISTICK-ll 1S KNOWT. bY, SIà in tUrM IrONS. LIPSTICA-IPO

WILSTED,

so 1s not known to LIiSTICK-1 but sio krons oi die existenco of LIPSTIOi-

I, would remain protected by L'istlat-19 mio would act as tho only overa-

tional cuntact with LIPSTICK-llio

6.

The plan 1u tat tils Stition should ovin ar agricultural implenent

accessory supply house at the li racifIllie base ose.

tie bullding is ideally suici to tais tipe of raginesã.

mysically,

II:3IICK-19 ano

his company would conjuct all oi lie japer bark snd Importiro procedures

for the new company el tier lu tie sun of lie new augny or t'ie neme of

LIPtIcK-19'g company:

Die net casuery under tie ostersible leadersidy.

of LIKERICK-lL would sell tie agricultural ascossariis to custirary recor

minded to lu by LIsTIC 19's quipury ani other agricuitural implicent

rutier, ar tie greatest uara: tie ai succes 1g tut

LIvsiICK-19'g company liseli cai atsorb ic entiro inventory at tie net

SECRET

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECR

10u.-A-3797

8 Joc. 1955

rajo 3

•LI5TICk-19 a:d. bavid M. Wilsreu would mive alärled ore

but the arusson of ticir preset hol Ings has proclued weir Investing

tho roquirod sun of money in an liventory.

mei do, lowover, 1n to coirse

of a joar wo the around of cercindiao noted in the attaciod prospectus

(trachnent No. 2) and dave azreed to purchase the arount listed in the

attacment at a price wach carantous a profit to tils station. Mus will

Insure that the business will to complotely self-nipportini. we have teen

advised that theso agricultural accessorios are imported into Moxloo and

sold at 40% alove the sun of lie entire cost of inital purciaoo price plus

import costs and duties:

The arlaultural accesjories would be sold to

the caneral puolic at a rice detentined by demnd and compotition, attempting

in every instance to make tie rost from bag salo. LlisTICK-ll, however,

would be allowed to purciase ticoe accessorirs at a frice wilch sould con

unsato : un for uls the ara effort

In handlin; all the orderini, Importin

nd other dutles connectod iti did mintioment oi tre business.

7o. It 1o earneatly recomended tint tilo propoonl lo acceptod dince 1t

represents a gerine long-turn coser redianiar that will not onl; provide

secure beliovatle covor for LinICK/LIMITlD but triic may concoivably io

used as covor for other personnel and operations.

8

Information vas ottalied on 20 November 1255 fron LIVISIUCK-2 which

indicated that tho LIllICY, targot was atto plini to ascortain 1f a

photographic surveillance was being directed againat them.

Tuto Incident

Increases the urgency and need for the institution of callovable cover at

ti: is base;

Attachmenta:

2.

3.

150/grb

Distributions

3 - 7508(6/at)

- Files (u/att)

Dun & Eradstreet report

Prospectus for far-.iny accessory busincos

Ider Lity UNDER SESALTE COV FIL

SECRE:

54130-5.

---

## Page 20

ttachment #1

8401-4-3797

8 Docsaber 1955

R. O. Din & Erudatreat do lenico, 501o

11 November, 1955

Oxtgono Para Infermos, S. de Ro La.

Servicing and sale of

axigen and axigen eyutrent

Crudad de Mexco

Federal District

Av. Coyoacan 940

Col. del Valle.

CEDUL: NO. 29108

Administritors

Sre Luts Conzalez Barquera

Sr. Carlos Gonzalez Bariuera

SYNOPSIS

Background: Business estublished in 1947 by st. Iuls Gonzalez Barquera

and organized in the manner lator described in 1953.

Estimate of Capitule: $300,000 Moxey.

Payments: Punctual

Financial situation and development, Satisfuctory and normal.

HISTORY

"Sociedad do Responsabilidad Limitada:

Date of founding:

Notary Public,

Registration;

Durations.

Purpose:

Capital Social!

Locited in Mexico City.

18 february, 1953

Lic. Eduardo. del Valle.

Not looated.

Ten yearg

supply oxigen service to sanatoriums

and private persona and sale at

$150, 000.00 Moxey.

Apital was supplied in equal amounts by Luis and Carlos Gonzalez

Barquera, who are also the admtnistrators as the firm.

Lils Gonzalez Barquera 19 a Mextean of 40 yours of age and 15 married.

It is reported that after leaving school he went to france and then to

North Afrion where he served as a volunteer in the French Army until

1947, when he returned to Mexico, D.F. it that time he established

tho business which operated in his name until 1953 wien he and his

brother organized the existing firm.

Carlos Gonzales Barquert 19.30 years of age and married. He has worked

with his brother sinee

the establishment of the firm.

He is at present

administrator and stock-holder:

-15"

50-190-5

---

## Page 21

These men aro generally well-regarded.

OPE LATING METHODS

The business witch consists of the sale and rentint of oxigen equipment

to private persons, private and official sanatortuns is carried on a

strictly cash basis. The fum issupplied by factories and local

distributors on a cash and also on a term bas1s:

ie firm occuples the ground floor of a modern butlding owned by th

Barquera brothers.

The factlities are of good presentation and muc

activity 1u noted on the premises.

The bust ness

18 located in a residential area in Colonia del Valle.

The firm has five, amall, Dodge trucks and one fargo truck, wich are

rudio equipped.

The firm has a radio transmitter to caintain contact

with 1ts mobile units.

Financial Report

Luis Gonzalez Barquera was interviened on the above date and he stated that

the business was operating on an active capitäl of $325,000 pesos, largely

tied up in equipment, merchandise and their delivery vehicles, ridio

transmitters, furniture, fixtures, and bank deposits. The firma liabilities

ara modost.

Conzalez stated. that his brother and he are co-owners of the building

which occupios 339 square meters.

The building is evaluated at

apuroximately $370,000 pesos, havine a mortgage af $72,000.00 Mexcy.

The bothers also own. a liercury and an HiG which are valued at approximately

$72,000.00 pesos, innual sales are estimated at $600,000.00 Mexcy.

This last statement was not completely substantiated by the persons

consulted but it is belteved that their approximate financial status

Those consulted stated the the present financial status

•of the firm lu considered satisfactory as the volume of sales permits

a normal development of the firm.

Payments

HIGHEST CREDIT . LIBAITIES : EXPIRED

Terrs

PAYMENTS OBSERVATIONS

$50,000.00

30 Days: Punctual

1th the cite mited as consulted stard tent shibie at and

with the firm were limited to

that the firm is well-regarded.

Other references which were consulted stated that they knew the persons

in question personally and that they considered them sordous and

dependable in their commercial dealings.

56-i20.5

---

## Page 22

879109-3797

s. 1955

Attachsent No. :2

POTENTIAL AI SSTAELISHONT OF AN ACCESSCRIES BUSINSSS FOR

FALLING ILFLSKNTS

In pointing out the

potential of an acceysories businees

for Purios larierents la Mexico, it is necessary to consider the

following:

a) Ca the totul of ideel farcing londe only & 33% 19 now under neon-

enized cultivution und according to stutistles obtained by ford

Loter Contary of lexico, thers hug been an acrease of 25% la the

mas out also that there 1s a definite trend to further develop

thelr usai

b) the present Governient hus shown great interest towirds encour-

aging mechanized farming ty

establishing agricultural bunks through-

out thi country. thut finince: furmers for the purpose of purchasing

tructors und inplements on susy teres... noconuly, sevaral schools

hare bien established for the toüching of the orerution und meinten-

ance of trüctors and implaments und of the modern techniques of

c) sven though most makes of laS. traotors und implements ure now

In use throughout the country,

there urE several auropeun-nade

tractors which are becoming extrensly nopulur but are supplied by

their canufücturers without ung implarents.

of thess, the demand

for the inglish Fordson which is inported by ford notor Co., hus

increased enoracusly in the pust 5 yours.

the sules of this tractor

in the Jear of 1950 were only thout 150 units; this year they

aucunted to approxinutely ico units,

400 of which were sold with

Idently?

one auglish nansons impicments and 100 with inplements supplied by

a factory which 1s only in its

carly stages of developrent.

d) it presert there is no minufacturer in this country dedicated

to the production of high curbon and siloy steel accessories which

are ladispensable in the use of farring implerents, und since

Ford oter ce. chly supplies the initial imolecents and secessories

with each tructor when 1t is required, the source for the replace-

rent of the icoessories is extremely limited.

CO FLe SEPlECEDEntS Of ACCESSOrIES Of the implements sold boldentity A.

business of this nature werento le established in thie

certuin thut

their production program for 1950, would be In a position

tc consume tetheen lco,000 and $130,0c0 (pesos) of sceessories in

This would be in addicion to the possihility of

roplacements for all the laplanents sold by ford

which include the blades of at leust 400. 3-dise plows

---

## Page 23

14-00000

To establish a business of this nature,

16 is suptested

thut the inielal cupital range from $10c, 000 to $150,cco (pusos):

The following are Items which could bo inportsaiss initial

merchundise:

250-

28" blades with 4" cup for

plows ut 160 such.....

210

26" bludes with 3 1/2" cup

for plows' at &130 ench....

'...

400

170

100

160

...80

6 :

22" bludes for harrows ut poo suca

18"x3/16" coulter blades for

furrow wheels ut sto euch.....

points for chisels at 7lo oach..

snceps for cultivators ut #15 such

lister heuds for planterg und

cultivators it 100 .8uch...

tons of 2 1/4"x2 1/4" chrome;

nickel steel at 24,000 a ton.

NOTI: Prices ure approximute.

Totul

$ 40,000

27,300

24,000

10,400

1,000

2,400

8,000

24,000

÷137,100

It is suggested thut the franchise for thee distribution

of the cuove itsus

be secured by!

fror the various munufacturers; that they be imported directly in

the nume of! -

¿which ir turn would

keep the accessorles business supolled with the necessury inventory,

thus relieving thut business of the tedicus puper nori connected

with the importstion of such items.

The businass could be established by any nuncer of persons

and, according to the desires of the owners, can be of any of the

following types:

ONE-FEASON O:NERSHIP: No notorized/is reguired and there 19

no limite to the cupital invested.

S. de hoL. (Sociedud de responsabilidad Limiteda): Thl.

cype of corporation cal

astablished by ut least tho

persons and can vary

the number of owners wittout

muking

any chunges in

the deed of the firm.

The capital stipu-

luted in

the deed is a fixed amount.

same as the one described sbore, the only ulfference be-

ing that the cupital

can be

varied at will.

•ll that is

required is thut a ledger of cupitals be guinezinen.

s. 1.. (Sociedud anónina): i mininun of five persons is

requirca. to

establish

typo of corporation.

The stock

is distributed unong

the corresponding

stock-tolderg

according to the capital

stipulatad in the dece nhich must

¿ fixed smount.

---

## Page 24

T-4-00000

de C.V.

(Soodedad anónina de Capital Vurtable):

his corporation 1s identicul with the one utove with the

advantage thut its cupital cun be vuried ut will by means

of the

establishnent of o ledgor of capitalg.

To begin operations on e lagal basis, It is first required

to subalt the proposed nume of the

firm to the " Secretnia de

Relaclones" for approval, after which the deed my be limediately

drain up.

Next, It 1s necessary to

rogister the name of the firm

in the following government offices:

secreturía de ¿conomiu.

secretaria de Hulandu y Crédito Publico:

secreturia de Salubridad y isistencia Públicu.

Gobierno del Distrito Federul (in the event that

this business' is established in the d.E.)

SEgurO Soclul

all this legal red tape muy be uccomplished through the

services of a competent public accountant who could luter be 1n

charge of handling the legul bocks of the firm, puy tuxes, sociul

Security dues, etc., for an approximata fee of $350.00 (pesos) 4

month.

-15

---

## Page 25

SEGRFT

SITARATE. CUVER ATTANIRISIS

HINCA -3797

8 Decaribor 1955

Idontity N'- Fabrica da Inilencitos Agricolas

SECRET

---

## Page 26

SECRET

clau

Prent ed

of Tubstil he

til HAruve

342% ditdiscugsr

Stalian

FILE: LIPSTICK

LIMITER

SECRET

SEUNL

FuL

SECRET

---

## Page 27

FROM:

ACTION

Roose.

•No.

-

CABLE

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Aminsina Nai

28872

Date Revired SA

UNTIER'S

INITiALA

Саммійте

•1.

DaTE

Roocired

10 gg.

Formantis

3

3.

Marl

5.

Мехі

В.

8:

9.

10.

13.696

E12

перед:

DATE RECITA

ACH&Y TD

ACTION PACI

Note to fried

FILE: LIPSTICK. /d.

Cablo

desk

Each comment should bo numbered to mispnal with aumber in To molumn

A line should he drawn across sheet under asch comment.

Olives designations should be usad in To miuma.

Each officer should initial (check mark insutErjes:) before further routing

Action desired or action taken should be indigi! in Comments column.

Kouting sheet should always be returned lu naziry.

For officer designatious suo suparale shere

SECRET

LATISAY 51-19

(1893)

---

## Page 28

CLASSIFIED MESSAUF

DATE

9 NOV 55

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM:- NEXICO

ACTION: WH

1 5

TF/RI 2, S/C 2

SECRET

WEX! 267 (IN 2R979)

TOS

DIR

PES H199-A -3247

18427, 9 NDV 55

PUTANFET

CITES NEXI

URGENTLY REQUEST AUTHORIZATION OF REF FOR INPLENENTATION

OF LIPSTICK/LIP'ITED.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

iT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

Cops No.

---

## Page 29

SEGRET

AIR

in 2

reedes

1: GAJ08 of Stallas, Maxleo Gley

• Chins, NHo

• Oparrtional Mattors

- LI FICK/INITRI

RIJ: H3255-3293

1.

Durine nio recont viadè to Headquirtoro sathen! Dingloy indianion that,

ao en altormilo to the liock store covor anilonod in ¡afursico, 16 slee

provo fandialo to us i a shop coallne di salo st siryirurand auygan se

tro birnick/sinita locutlan isnelos furthor Indicatod that chio

altarsativa covor vould invalve lovor uriandicures of unis.

It is nolad

that jaragrash so Be of reforeice dintos that on orbinator 12200 las. bould

Do noodled to implorant the bust aboro cover.

¿hat tir buainaso sight mill oporato at ? 10s8.

2.

l'asuquartoro muld approdinto none infinantian on coato involved in

establishing the oxygon sus; ly bustrosa, and at tine aRts cleo mould

appreciato ino Plald'a vlova rogerding essabllonzone us sose typa of ropais

it boild saen lied samwiiero in tho

WFSTICK

somalax, os asons other station asseto, thore might be locubad a perear

paraged in rapalr o! clocerical apallances, shoes, clothing, or sono

other artiolen. Perhane: a politiva of ono of lhe prosent !!: TIlt toas

alghe haro tre mcesay araliflations. In cosa duct, ansolo do celsi, the

IRAtiOn ILlhE sAXO tO LI: TICK, LIMITID prosdads available on à rane 1000

Disdo for the ino of tha repairaas la ritura sor the cover obttliror..

endo cose tho orrandsation toll not loonse irralros 1n mint-nince of

invontorlos seeded for ratail businasses and would not bocaso entralled la

adainlatratios of the burtsora.

3.

In replyine to tho abovo projosition, plasso also adviso roaquartors of the

status of the Lipoticinird bullaine mdifications.

19 October 1955

P. P. HOLCOND

AC/WHD

3 - Haríco

1 - #H/Mallroom

1

-RI

1 - VH/ührono-1' - Subject

WH/III/REShad/fr

F. P. HOLCOHB

O. M. DOEIFLINDER

SECHL.

---

## Page 30

535

3eш)

SHAW

CIASON IGERAESSAGE

GRIS

•UNIT

7 7.

DATE

-TO

R.

WHD

2555

23 JULY 1953

MEXICO CITY

531

.1. SDCRET

FRO:d :

DIRECTOB

No . TT, F1/0PS, EMPLANS, F7/A1 2/PP 2, /P/0p9, s/c 2

LIPSTICK/LIMITED

DIR 15567 (OUT 59079)_ 12372 25 ML 55.

CITE: DIR

TO: MEXI

RB: MIXI OUB (IN 24832)

CAELE DESCRIITION RECESSURY REPAIRS AND ESTTMATZI ÜCST.

ROUTINE

PREC

IND OF IDOSSAGE

fit,"

CODROIMATINO NE

om/l.1e.

Di MOERTITND

OFFICEA

ONTIGIT IS FORBIUDEN TO RIAKE i COPY OF THIS MESSIGE

Copy No.

---

## Page 31

FROM:

ACTION

TO

3

2.

scut

RooM

Na

CABLE

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Accession No

24832

Dato: Received SA.

COMMENTE

Receired

Forwaruhd

FILE LIPSTICK

512

3/55

Мехіко

Charia's

: INITRALA

RitS

ED3

01S

TAl!

shaw

Cable i field

forestrinate

of cost of repacio.

FR 45-1180

S.

9.

10.

Cablo

deit

ма тау датені амону^

A line should be drawn across shect under each comarent

Officer designations should be used in To column.

Action desinal or action taken should be indicated in Comments column.

Routing sheet should alwayy bo returned to regisut.

For offcer designations see separate shcot

regaii costs.

SECRET

Dar sa 51-19

(1863)

---

## Page 32

DATE

TO.

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO: :

12: 1e68468

SECRET

019

JULY 1755

DiRECTOR

MEXICO

FI. FI/OPS, FI/PLANS, FI/RI 2, PP 2, PP/OPS, S/C 2.

MEXI 008 (IN 21:832)

TOS DIR

REF DIR 19093 (OU: 31585. )

07087. 16 JUL 55

ROUT I NE

PUTCEDENCE

CITE: SMEXI

10 PURCHASE LIPSTICK/LIMITED ALMOST COMPLETED.

2. FR L501180 DOES NOT AUTHORIZE BASIC REPAIRS WHICH ARE

ESSENTIAL REGARDLESS OF COVER EMPLOYED, MUST DO SOME REMODELING

TO MAKE HOUSE LIEFABLE AND TO CONFORI TO LIMOUSINE. COVER STORY OF

PURCHASE FOR INVESTVENTO

30 NECESSARY REPAIRS AND PURCHASE PRICE WILL NOT EXCEED

CRIGINAL AUTHORIZATIONA

40 REQUEST CABLE REPLY SINCE MOST ANXIOUS TO RESUME

OPERATIONS.

50 ALL DETAIIS, DEEDS AND RECEIPTS WILL BE POUCHED WHEN

AVAILABLE.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

Copy No.

---

## Page 33

hipstick

SECRET

081A-3293

Galos, Hestern Heilaphoro' Divlalon

Ondor of Station, Marloo

RET&

b.

Oporational

LIPSTICK/LIMITED

MaxI 962

DIR 21082

MEXI 979

1o

• Rafaranoo s sot fo:th tho broic estimatos for the establishmant

a a bookatore to provide covor for the LIPSTICK/LIMITAD basabuse.

Refurenon b encoumanded ngulast the lastitution of this covar beanure.

as the difrionitica involrad 1a the dotailed planning and suporvision

of a proprietary projoot by both leadquartars ani tho flold.

Rofergnos

§ stated that LIPSTICK/LIMIT'D vould ba initiated wit' residance covar

Jut vaudiosed that this Station ald not moliou that longtima rooldanoo

cover sould be operationally secure.

2..

During tho negotiatiana for the rurabasa of thie base by liDu:INs,

ho had put farte the coplanation to Mis saployees nil tha bunic vio

hundlad the purchase for lis, tent he alannal to turn the houso into

businoss property.

Wearass this factor, in itsalf, la not controlling,

it does ropresent a potential security hasard. Should althor wusIne's

amploy00s

or the employees of tho buni erer aleculato as to tho roason

for LIYOUSIE's apparant chenga of flins, thoy ser appresinate the torth

since the loontion of tha bouso 18 obvlous to all concertiod.

30

An adilltanl laotor wiich iodieaton thit residence cover will

mobably not provide adaqualo security is to conoral localo of the

aruso.

The house 18 locatai on a fairly busy otreat surroundod by.

commeroial bul dings.

In the nait bluck ubero aro teu apartmant cutla-

ingo, ono 1s a lovaiddle cles: apartment house end tho othor 18 sootly

afficos with a fou living apertnents (one ji vidai: is the RiPPail base).

Ganerally, 1t say be satd that with the arooption of the LIlERIch targot

SECRET

---

## Page 34

SECRET

H0:1-3293

21 July 1955

• Pago 2

fact la in oppoultion to ta prlastalo of covor tiat inconaplalouanos &

a prinary requisito of operational soourity..

14.

This Station recogaises thit a propriotary projoot requiros a broat

dogise of attontion and alose supervision.. It is also rocognised that

1t Macos an alditional burian upon loadquartors. Howevor, it is the

opinion of thia station that residence coror will not suitioo for a sustaina.

oporation and that some othor form of cover must be fown to naxe the

ocoupation of this baso a ballovablo thing. Commorolal cover as outlined

Li roferanco a appare to satiary noot of the roquiramnts for what 18

bolloved to be goxl, durablo covor. It 1a thorefore requestod that 16

Headquartors agroes with this vroposal, thia Station be authorised by

cablo to procood kith the establishment of a businesa cover as outllned

In rareronoo do

Ay of aagistanco to Headquertors In rrivlag at a decision, the

folloulig outline of the propuied businose coror la subaitted.

LIPSTICK-l, and his faally of two sons and a vifa will ocoupy

the basohouse.

Clearsica roquests havo bean submittad on tho older

son and the wifo who will assiat LIFSTICK-l4, in tha oparation of de

shop, and possibly the san sill aloo assist in the toahnical work

frivolved.

LIrstICk-l has beon a boox salesman for many joars and

1s fairly convorsant bita the intricaulus of tha boo! misineso.

Although 1t could not be said that he la experionard in the rotall

book store businant, he represents the best asset avallabile to this

Station for such

a cors buainese while still fittlag into this

lover piddlo class nalabarhood and suffiolently tralnod in alandostine

nethods of hork.

bo

The present house pust be romodoled to provide for a atroot

entrance into the stare and also fur sum suller altarations to

enlarge the roon that is planned to bo used for the storo. It 19

astimatod that thio wil eust approxinataly: $500.00 U.S.

c.

The initial purchase of stock 1s estinatod to cost approxinatoly

3500.00 U.S. At present 1t 18 contouplatod that the store vill

deal in paper-becked Snerish novela wilah would be nbout tho loval

of roading in tits nolghherbood. Magasines and sose statlonerg

SECRET

---

## Page 35

SECRE7

HM94A-3293

1l July 1955

• Paga. 3

suppllos will algo bo carrlod, but tho bost 1toug of stook ill

hare to bo dotermined at a lator dato cocording lo publio damend.

it slibt be vell to constior that thore oxiity the possibility that

tito bualnoos, rogardions or uhat 11na lo orrried, viil oporato it

a Losar Evan though thoro la no compirable storo in tho Incodiato

no Erborood and it 1o sincoraly folt that thero is a remoto chance

that tho businoad may broak even,

thoro la a strongur fooling that

1t ilil probably be opornting in the nod boat as tho time.

d.

Intorior countera and diaplay cases havo beon ostilinitod to oost

arowed $100 U.5:

Most of the equipment vill be anconi-band but some

nou loakonaso vill have to be bullt nround tho unilo.

LIPSTICK-I, has statod that the normal way al cunduoting a

rotril book bisiness 1s to buy stock on a 30, ou or 9a day noto.

The publishers will cotond this crodit 1f you un onor a laos bulance

airfloient to pay the noto aitor all other debta have buen puld.

Ihis 1s proven by an exanlantion of your books to seo if your balance

da sufficient to liquidato ail dobto.

This amount deposited 1s not

aotually in the nature of an esponditure since 1t will te dopositod

In a bunk maroly for the purpose of establishing a credit riting.

Thera my ba oscanions whon suno bill will have to bo pald fron this

amount but overy attenpt vill be nio to preservo 1t intaot.

LIPSTIOE-14

has suggeoted that all chocke on this account bo nignod by nt loast

tuo people.

At present the second uignur has not boon chosen int tho

most likoly camidato la LIrslICi-19 whon va cunsider to la corplatoly

trustworthy.

Naturally, beroro any exponditures aro mado, tie Case

Ofi'lcara will have to auprove tham.

It 1s estinted that $1000 U.9.

must be deporitod in ordar to establiah crodit for thls siso and o po

al business.

fo.

It has bean outinited that approximatoly $100 U.S. will be

nocassary l'ur the jurchaio of a businega liconsa and soveral snal1

1cems or office ogui ment, such as lougers, typawriter and a small

aliling maolilne:

Ilita anount should albo covir the necosanry bribea

end payofis which aro wounl itana 1n tho conduot of a buginoss in

Hoosco G1ty.

The total emount astimnted to start this covor business 18

82200 U.S. It 1a aubaittod that this raintivoly mall emount vill

givo this operation the vury bost chance to lunotion in u securo

Matthew S. DINGLET

SECRET

15ID/550

Distributlons

3 = Wash

2 - Filos

---

## Page 36

14-00000

-

FILE: :41PS51CK

OPNL

CLASSIEED MISSAGE

QUITE

040

6 JULY 55

SECRET

¡I RECTOR

NEXICO CITY !

FROM :

ACTIONS

WH

INFO FT, F//OPS, FI/RIa, S/C2

NEXI SST (IN 21485)

0650Z 7 lill 55

TOS. DIR

RE: DIR 10576 (OUT 50510)

RE HMMA - 3130

ROUTINE

TANCEDENCE

CITES.. SM'EXI

CASE OFFICERS CALLED ONLY IS LIST RESORT UNTIL CUT-OUT WITH

CFEDENTUALS READY, LIPSTIC ID HILL HAVE CREDENTIALS NITHIN TWO

DAYS AND LIPSTICK 17 AND LIPSTIUK SO WITHIN THO WEEKS. AT THAT

TIRE CASE OFFICERS WILL NO LONGER BE USED AS LAST RESOPT. HOWEVER

THIS LAST RESORT VAS NECESSARY N THE PAST TO PRESERVE L'OBALE OF

END OF R'ESSAGE

SECHET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS INESSAGE COSY Na.

---

## Page 37

22h

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FILE: LIPSTICK

AqUI

5.

6

DATE: :

85 JULY 55

DIRECTOR

FROM :

ACTION:

MEXICO CITY

WH 5

INTO PI, FI/OPS, FI/RI 2, SSA, CM. 3/C 2

NEXL 972 (IN 20860)

17492 5 JUL 55_

ROUTINETETHET

TO: DIR

CITE: SMEXI

RE: DIR 11082 (OUT 51378).

FORMERLY KNOWN AS LIPSTICK-M BASE

HOUSE

1, LIPSTICK/LIMITED ASSIGNED PARA 2 REF,

2. WILL INSTITUTE LIPSTICK/LIMITED WITH RESIDENCE

COVER UNTIL DETAILS OF BUSINESS COVER CAN BE CONSIDERED BY HAS.

PRUCHING DETAILS, DO NOT BELIEVE LONG TIME RESIDENCE COVER

OPERATIONALY SECURE.

END OF NESSAGE

SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE COpy Ma

---

## Page 38

21 4-00000

LIPSTICK

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

432

DATE :

24 JUNE 1955

SECRET

70

DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 5'

INFO:

COP, FI, Fl/OPS, FI/RI 2, SSA, CM, S/C

2

NEXL 962 (IN 17533)

TOS DIR

23202 &t JiN 5t

ROUTINE

ACCIDENCE

CITES SMEXI

LIPSTICK 7 HOUSE PURCHASE ALMOST COMPLETED. LIPSTICK 14 AND

FAMILY WILL OCCUPY HOUSE, COVER OF BOOK STORE WILL BE USED SINCE

ENTRELY FAMILIAR WITH THIS BUSINESS FROM YEARS OF EXPERIENE.

LIPSTICK I (EGAIION HISSIS BELIENSERLICED) • REQUEST CABLE

APPROVAL FOLLOWING EXPENDITURES, ALL IN DOLLARS, FOR WHICH

SUFFICIENT MONEY ALREADY IN LIPSTICK ALLOTTMENT:

A. REMODELING HOUSE FOR STORE $500.

B. INITIAL PURCHASE OF STOCK $500.

Go INTERIOP COUNTERS AND CASES $100.

D: ESTABLISHING CREDIT $1,000.

E. LICENSES AND BUSINESS ERUIPIENT $100.

TOTAL $2,200.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE Com Na

---

## Page 39

-Q000o

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECR

LIPSTICK

ROUT

DATE:

24. JUNE 1955

6

• DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION WHIS

INFO : COP, F.I, FI/OPS, Fi/RI 2, SSA, CM, S/C ?

MEX/ 962 (IN 17533)

TOS DIR

ROUTINE

ACCIDENCU

CUTES

SMEX!

LIPSTICK 7 HOUSE PURCHASE ALMOST COMPLETED. LIPSTICK 14 AND

FAMILY MILL OCCUPY HOUSE.

COVER OF BOOK STORE WILL BE USED SINCE

ENDRELY FAMILIAR WITH THIS BUSINESS FROM YEARS OF EXPERIENCE.

LIPSTICK 1 (REAIION HISSING BELIENSERVICED)

REQUEST CABLE

APPROVAL FOLLOWING EXPENDITURES, ALL IN DOLLARS, FOR WHICH

SUFFICIENT MONEY ALREADY IN LIPSTICK ALLOTTMENT:

A. REMODELING HOUSE FOR STORE $500.

BO INITIAL PURCHASE OF STOCK $500.

Ca INTERIOP. COUNTERS AND CASES $100.

D: ESTABLISHING CREDIT $1,000.

E. LICENSES AND BUSINESS EQUIPHENT $100.

TOTAL $2,200.

END OF MESSAGE

..SE C

RET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE Com Na.

---

## Page 40

LIPSTICK / "

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE

205

10 JUNE 55

SECRET

TO

: DIRECTOR.

FROM MEXICO CITY

ACTION:

INFO :

C1, 61/DA, FI, FI/OPS, F1/RI 2, PP 2, PP/OPS, S/C 2

MEXI 913 (IN 12828)

ROUTINE

PRECEDENCI

CITE: SMEXI

TO: DIR

RE: DIR 49893 (CUTS1385) DATED 2Q APRIL 55

1. PURCHASE LIFSTICK-7 HOUSE NEARLY COMPLETE. TO SHAKE POSSIBLE :

LIMERICK SURVEILLACE REQUEST: AUTHORIZATION SPEND 15%0 PESOS FOR

LIPSTICK-7 TRAVEL GUT OF TOWN SEVERAL HEEKS AND STORAGE FURNITURE.

2:

AFTER 6 LIONTHS COOLING OFF PLAN USE LIPSTIGK-7 AS BASE

HOUSE OPERATOR. MEANWHILE SINCE SHE RECEIVES RENT FREE QUARTERS.

IN PRESENT JOB AND MILL IN BASE HOUSE, REQUEST PERUISSION PAY

800 PESOS RENT DURITE INTERIM WHEN SHE WILL WORK AS LIFEAT TRANSCRIBER.

REQUEST CLEARANCE FOR THIS YORK.

END OF MESSAGE

apprised.

SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS NESSARE Copy NO.

---

## Page 41

DESENSITIZED

per ESH 49-48

VIA

DISPATCH NO. E34-290

207 / 172

TO

Chier,

MiD

DATE

7 Decenter 105

SUBBET ( GENERAL Oporitions

SPECHIC

LISTICA-

The station dosires to purchase dia present II:STICi-7 photo and

idio dispitch base for the following reassas:

It is tho test lout: on availablo for the tipe of vork laing

dove there.

It is the only loc-tion that could ba tought for a mont

"rice

that would fill tho noeds of te operation.

The only

other prime location is? lirpo and relatively new aparteent:

house.

It is known that the owner is willing to soll.

d.

it the tine when the precent runtil contract was rarerod,

Bax

Pold:

108 # 72-14 3/85

Classification:

-

- 25/"

Remove from Project I strer/homuted Hrenithuntes

had to incroase our rent to reop the omer fros selling.

prasant tie rent we are aring is nuch higner than the raise

IN

is really worth.

It soons likoly that when the contract is

RS

to te renewed in July 1955 the oner my hoost the rent egin

or refise outright ti continue to ront it.

BX

DESLAID

•.

Since it 15 planied thit in 1955 Indio dispatching operatiors

FI

for physicel surveillence oparations will e Increased at thas Ve/RED

Location, tha station desiren to ie able to count on haring i

indefinitoly.

In the event of an increase in Intemational tensions, 11 Is

Likoly

that all bIZeck carsomel lould nove into their aficial

estatlishnent. In this erent, coverage fron LISTIG.-T bould be

al1 the stution waild bate, cu? benco loild be of the grestost

importance.

2.

when the present rent-l contmet wis negotiated, the onor his willing

CLASSIFICATIDN

70E 54

1989.

51-28

CS COPY

50-6-2519

---

## Page 42

Fogo ?

7' Jes 19:4

Las sis:

This

station thinks the purchane hold lost te effected tarough

3016 alreads hord of ond of the lancer constinction

compenies in derico.

The cosing has fo a eubar o go ru lon actively

ensured In the secuisition of lani rid in the cruction of laildings. A

rodey reason Ser murchasins

tually Intends to tear it do fit to a fung a old medic) und cont

aE0.-7 baro wild be tunt his company oven-

stmet either an artront or comercinl building. fus amlan tion would

o sula adecuto sinco in the amia of town concorned, razy old residonces

nue being tory don and raplaco by new lergo muldings.

Of course, it wadd

parer be necessary to rut aa chuthor building. To sescion as to proporty o

on tho otor hai, mould sire tie stition gruntor freadon li sotting up

equinent, maine minor oporational Itoratis in the stricture, stc., 1f

deesod necessisi

4.

Mission would

With peeranca to 35 15-11%0 (doal detato end Cossiniction), tias

dia to mou la do would lie necannery to coaty witi all tho

reisitor noted esdar practie (rocodies) insore as laving to incor

the manicuntiro do artarts at hondquarters of such socific details as

nao of mciarer cad addrore di crorerty.

It is hoped that it is not necoss: ry

to five detaiis

pe thin ino atoont to thone carriged in aperations as wo bo-

Lero that this

inition is the most sensitivo uno ve auro.

In this soincesion it shoula ho noted also that in the event lIStIck-

? vero blown, amorshig of the houso by the station world moan that the possi

bilities of continulig wore tould to much mora favorabla tnu thoy lould do if

he dis not omi tie properti.

lo stars toward accundating the property hiro yot seen talion, This

station voile spreciato an namar to the followie questions:

9. Dais leadquarter: concur in tho advischility el turing tho houso?

Dous Hendquarters agrue Chit LID SLal conjuri is a sultable

mans tirauà idea to effect too purchaso:

In rogurd to this

22ind, the setul serotiations could be carried out by one of

ward's maure partners or agcnts.

furthor ore, the wiole

22onatain come to carried on tationt IS. SiE's having to

now that we and alcondy at work at tiat losation.

mis station moula pogracinte an aurly ro ly to these quastions.

prasent contact arpires in July 1955 and v boilove that tie sooner ve take

notion tha lass likeli we an to lose this opportu ity.

Than dog.shoes

Thoras Go Urgibart

The

Taü/101

2 Deceabar 1934

Distribution:

2 - Files

50-6-2519

---

## Page 43

(ain rolled l9)

CASE FILE REQUEST

TO KI/ANALYSIS SECTION

FROM:

EM/1II Hexico

DATE

25. Juno 1957

слом по.

2121 Farten

TELEPMONE

2555.

Project LIPSTICK/LTMITED

5625/5

COMMENTS, (Include brial descripedon ol

project)

Physical sirvelllance

base

house.

Original of dociments entitled LIŸ STICK/LIMITED to so placel in 50-6-25/3

with carbon cony for 50-4-25/9

FOR RI USE ONLY

INDORSIMENT

THIS REQUEST

SATISFITS THE RECORDS REQUIREMENTS OF CLAN..

REQUEST APPREVED

DESTINE

SERVICES,

SIONTO (Por Chial, A1)

SIGNATURE RI/AMALYSIS

LOUID O. NORDEEN

LETIÉTIVE DATE •

3

FORM MO:

812

JUL • 1957

N COPY

50

25/9

SECRET

---

## Page 44

50-6-74/5+19

OTHER AGENCY

4 DOCS ENCLOSED

---

## Page 45

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED.

DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD DE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO IP /RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

17-191

ORM

-66

2593

---

## Page 46

SECRET

•HiMAN PiLITO MAN

FROM:(Hoodquorrercomponui..g

SUBJECT AND PROJECI FILE REQUEST

AND FIELO NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

10

RiD/AN

(Stallon/Bos®)

MEXICO

COMPLETE ITEMB I THROUGH !8

ITEMS-ALL FILE TITLES MUST DE STERLE SINCE THEY WILL

APPEAR ON THE FILLO COPIES AND ON MACHINÄ LISTS

ITEM ¡ ANO O -ÜSE FIRST THHE LETTERS OF DISPATCH gYM.

ROLS

FOR

STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUARTERS ELE:

MENTS ACCORDINO TO ESTADLISHED NUMERIC CODES.

TYPE OF FILE

SUDJECT

PROJECT

FROM: (Dislilon)

WH

INFORMATION

FOR REQUESTERS

iTEM: TO-ENTER OLO TITLE WHSH AMENDiNG a TITLE. CITE

ANY,

PILES SUCH

AS: 201

OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RE:

LITEO TO THE FILE COVERIO Or MIS REQUEST ITEM

tO MAY

ALSO DE USEO TO GIÜR HEADONSTOR

ACTION BEINO AL

QUESTED, TO IDENTITY. INI TAPE UT

RIAL TO DE PLACEO

¿IN AVILE DR TO MAKE OTHER LAPLANATORY REMARKS.

"EM IN -A RECORDS OfRICAN

MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION RR.

QUESTS

CONSULT YOUR RMO ON ANY PROBLEMS THAT ARISE.

INTORMATION CONCERNING FILE

CODE 'FILE. NUMBER

COUNTAY NUMERA.

CARGONY NUMOST

TAPECIFIC SUBJECT NUMETA

050

Citi

1074/05

3 FILE TITLE ISPECIFIC SUBJECT, ¡PROJECTS LIMITEO TO IS SPACES,

LIEMPTY/LIMITED

ACTION REQUIRED

OPEN FILE

AMEND FILE TITLE

8. REMARKS ITOR. FIELO DISTRIBUTIONI

ANALYSIS ACTION

CLOSE PILE INDICATE DISMOSITIONI

REOPEN

RETAIN

DISPOGITION

DISTRUCTION HECOMMENDED

THRU •DATE.

7. INTERESTED STATIONS IPROJECTS ONLYI

HMM

HOLD IN

CS FILES

RESTRICTED

0. INTERESTRO NEADOUARTERS DESK LIST ACTION DESK FIRSTY

050

FILESACTION

UNRESTRICTEO

CHARGE PERMANENTLY TO

PREPARE FOLDER AND

'OFFICER & DESKI

SEND TO REQUESTER

1O. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEAOQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONGI

ENDORSEMENT

SIQMATURE OR DRANCH/DESAR. I 516

FORM

12-83

812

114.71

OBSOLETE PREVIOU!

EDITIONS

MFO.

12.

COORDINATION

SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/ORDX R. O.

WHIN APPLAULL!

05,0

SECRET

gipo lAPPROVAL

CODE •FILE

38

074/5

1.-ES COPY

---

## Page 47

HMMA: 34229

50014

DISPATCH

CLASSINAION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION .

MARKID ICR IMDIIING

Chiel, WH Division

¡ONLY QUALIFIO DISE

CAN JUDGE INDIXINE

Chief, SB DIv18i00

Chief of Station, Mexico CityA

MICROTE

SUBNET

0 REDCOAT JOhN T XICONNER - NO 20/

0 Merli

ACTION REQUIRED: TYI DICH 24 FShI5

REFERENCE

(Ä)

MEXICO CITY

3265, 24 October 1967 21-1-743

(B)

HMMS-5743, 26 December 1967

Niv artistic pRiNTER FoRGLypies committee

16.

Reference (A) reported the visit to the Soviet Embassy

on 17 October 1967 of an unidentified man;

belleved to be American,

who entered at 1421 hourg and left at 1733 hours.

This man mag

driving a 1966 white Volkswagen with New York licenge plates

number 6G3339. Reference (B) reported that Headquarters traces

were negative

on John F. CONNER, owner of the car in question.

2.

Attached for Headquarters information are pertinent

memoranda concerning Subject case which have been passed and

received from the Legal Attache

that subject was never in contact with the Soviet Embassy but had

loaned his car to a friendy Eduardo *TERRAZAS, a membor of the

Olympic Organizing Committee, who conducts business on behalf of

the committee with reprosentatives of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico.I

The man who visited the Soviet Embassy on 17 Octuber 1967 was

Eduardo TERRAZAS. No further action is planned on this case.

1: MCNICE

Lice: BuSE

sop Hillard C. CURTIs

Attachment:

Memoranda and photos

Distribution:

C/WH,

#/att

2 - C/SB, w/o/att.2c-j8/c/iH

KAR 2 2 1968

Ta: in and all

10M-12163 03d

hwatt: 1

CROSS REFERENCE TO

03 607X

DISPAICH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA - 34229

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

50-6-74/5

7 March 1968

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-74/5

---

## Page 48

Daïo:

Janaly Is,

196S

Fion:

Susject:

Loget Attache

(105-5415)

in:

TED VESTOOD TO S022 EBASSY

Manorabtie

Reference is made to =y.

mmorardum cated Deceaber 2o,

1957, and your senorancius dato

12 December 1967, #12,505.

Exclosod aro ino resorida dated.

canuary S, ises,

New York,

dow York, whick perrain to captioned maiter.

Investigation in tie tired states continues, and

the results will

be furnisaca to you mion received.

Enclosüres - 2

---

## Page 49

14-00000

Hor toy:

nota Sae

100354,

290;

FIES

4n0:

955

Liconse

üe

Sis:

2002.0

Osisa

volkswagen,

20;1

Ca2 20r 13

222060 19002, 10083

Chere io to businods Doccoded

:?

Decendea

the 2000265 62

tho Surdo2r County

2oOTd O0 32006423

Legata

1422

perianed

Jean 2.

6n202204

Voce;

in Sus2oi4

Corrüy

Iù is incostod baco

is

20P roving

2áx2ü

eneolied

in Suadole Cosasy

in 1966 stevias

ühs;

Secreto County

3210₴ 253

40110004

DEUTHOUEZ} 15

3 Cerco: 21ad0,

52000158g

Non York.

nerezzued in the tesorie ac

ravang

oser. torn

2935,

tho Uraced. Suakes; Fare Loot

anches;

20 TELAÖ E CUCORda: 200 Faxl; Saho 0405: 1242440.

in Desenoer 1,

0222. 19e2a02, Chedad Supecu

=iolk.

200022022600

marerhead,

1oag;

do Jom r.

chare lu no chodio date z hoc files geztaring

Conner.

---

## Page 50

2:3

Z0.a

Ce:

Fa:

502.

Sandert,

Sences:

chlod

Jota: 2.

Oc.e

Lork.

23,

Te 00t6

Lece:

1n101:10

2.

50"

2

2ea

22,

101?

I200

25:

2032

10g

223

S0dse 2026922 82SR6

11353

÷95T

2e501à.

.$

202020s

zac.

-10G

: 00 Che 2035;

1.02

20002i0n

224

•3

tari

York.

12752

ade wand,

pion

...:

Enoche

trost,

So::

Agnos

Tational

Arane-ard

.vo,

200

1.

Roden

2010205

$1:0083

cave gease.

Fis

Degenes 26te

225

1i2e

102

Immeroris,

Essbes di.

rosiden

beer peongs.

Coanes,

21:

2903

...:

Fod6

1,)

20d1 28

022100.

te 2:21

Miet Ne 2S

2ec1

10.8

==.

---

## Page 51

narg

Di

•IV.

LICC

SC

r.0

ciea

Connob

026,

'o:??

Pi.

HLOs

:. in

caparciice

addroes os

255

St2

aoia.

SS.

202

Joir.

Boud,

Brsdtonston,

SioGezdes

2luee,

Seookyn,

1Cot.

Debá:

0a6,

Easohensse:

nzuaede croons, Calee,

Aachong eon

"ew Yor,

cavdesd

2216506

¿CCoRuOd Lu 22e

#ia0s 2od John 2.

0o:0: 02

102'.

-3..

---

## Page 52

aereo

Al sonnoca

cio consented an

rientrord Comunicastor

hard

comation tri mie gust.

miose dientaties

ME-:

woo in a pocrodon do lannich coliable

ancorantion.

---

## Page 53

BBCRBT

Dato:

TO:

FrOm:

sübjoct:

Pobruary 13, 1908

Logal Attäche

INIDENTITII VISITOR ME MORE MANASSE

(10:6489 • 4/12/88)

This document in for the use of your

agenoy only mirolr it nor its

contenty : tunid la further distributed

#1 thout appropriate authorisation.

Roference is made to your nomorandum

No. 12,365

dated 12 Decombor 1987 and my momarandu

datod Decembor 28, 1067•

John F. Connor telophoned the U.s.

embassy, doxico, D.f., and advisod tho Protection

Soction on January 31, 1068, that his y1f0,

Patricta sundborg Connor, a professional entertainor

known as Tricia Sandberg, lud advisod him that sho

had received information

that --

- New York City had mado inquirlos

concorning him.

Conner advisod that ho resides at

Cordoba 23-4,

Colonia Rona, Mexico, D.F.,

tolephone

25-28-39 and

statod that ho la anxious to cooperato

11 tho purpose of tho inquiry can be dotormined.

Above Information

1s being furnished

any uction doomed advisable by you.

office does not plan to conduct additional invost1-

gation In this matter unloss requestad

to do so

by your offico.

83 C RET

GROUP 1

Excluded from autonatso.

loungrading and

'eclassification

---

## Page 54

14-00000

8

This offico would approciato being adriood

concorning action being taken by your offico.

- 2

5C 739032

---

## Page 55

00000

SECRET

6 MarCO 1968

MISSIORANDU FOR :

FROM

SUBJEC

Logal Attacho

: Unidentilled Vialtor to Soriot Ambagay

Retorence 18 made to your momorandus dated 12 february

1908 (4105-1413) regard108 John E. CONNER.

2.

A representativo of this office intervlewed CUNNER on

5 March 1968.

CONNER, who was ecapletely cooperative throughout

cho interviow, statod

that he in an artistic palater and 18

omployed in that capacity by the Organizing Comaittee of tho

1968 Olympics:

He Bald he care to Mexico in lictober 1957 te

bogin work for tho Organizing Connittco and expected to remain

in

MoxIco until sonotine vefore the Olyapic Ganes In October of

this year.

3.

CONNER stated that he had nover had any contact with

Sovlet Embaggy personnel in Mexico and had never been inside

the soviet Subasay in bexico Clty.

he stated thut ho

owns a 1007 white Volkuwagen which he frequontly londs to various

people, lncluding Arg. Eduardo TiKRAZAS, sho Is a member of the

Departamento do Publicaciones of the Olympic Organizing Committoo.

CONNER stated that ho hay been ataying in TERMlZIS'S Lome since

coming to Mexico and that ho knows TERRAZAS has on occasion

conducted bualness on behalf of the Ulyapic Organizing Committee

ulth represontatlvos of the Soviet tabassy in Mexico.

4.

CONNER does not resemble the individual in the prota

graphs. corvarited to your office along with our memorandua of

12 Decenber 1867 (#12,365).: On 5 March 1908, a nenbor of this

•offIco

The snOUS TERRALAS positively identlled the individual

in tho

above photographs as TrirAZAs.

TERRAZIS 13 a Mexican

citizen.

$22,058

THIS INFORSATION IS FROS A CONFIDINTIAL SOURCE.

IT LUST NOT

BE DISSEMINATED

IN HIIOLE OR IN PART OUTSINS YOUR OFFICE WITH-

OUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE OHIGINATING OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY.

SECRET

teches did

---

## Page 56

14-000000°

-EGRET

2

•Bo.

Since TiRRAZAS'& businose with the Sovlot Embassy

appears to be logitinate, ne plan no further actlon on this

matter.

X.R.LSVENDERIS: VEP

Distribution:

Orig .

Addressee

50-8-10/11

50-2-4/A

• wash.

Pouch

1 - Memo

Chrono

INDEX: John F: CONNER and Eduardo TEHRAZAS to

• 50-8-10/11

SECRET

---

## Page 57

CCiid

1CUs

ie Cerodd E

...:

t...

h-at inn.e

.. te20l

wic. t

.0ya

inau.i..

AT OE

ned dvezrannr

aa oinl te ter

-. C-

1 C3 222

:24.082

": CO0k22

w.ISIui

HA:.:

1N.ICA B

an tiRS k

......

Mi2C S2.

isi.:

...-.. s.

.eiddeete cit reerooons..

CITTN-T

---

## Page 58

SECRET

12 December 1967

MRHO RANDUS FOR :

Logal Attache

FRON

SUBJECT

-: -Ualdentified Visitor to soviet sabasay

A Decembor 196T (#105-6443).

2.: Forwarded hercuith are the photoyraphs proaised in

our above referenced memorandu.

These photos are for your

retention.

Attachments:

Photographs

#12,365

THIS INFOFIATION IS FROM A CONFIDINTIAL BOURCE.

IT LUST NOT

BE DISSEMINATSD IN WROLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFPICE WITH-

OUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY.

Distribution:

Orig

- Addressee, v/att.

1-

50-8-10/11,

"/att.

50-2=4/A.

B/o/att

4-

Wash Pouch,

H/att

} =

Hono Chrono,

g/o/att.

SECRET

---

## Page 59

Da

Decc.ces

23, 190

Suojeco: Urdcnbrdied Vicitos

to Scliet Enazesy

{205-5443

=:22/20/57)

Reuanenee ao gede do vou dicnonandim dated

12 Dece.ben 2967, 142,505.

• Stedoced as a monorundun dauce Nuvemoca 27, 1957,

at dlbany, do: 202.:.

Eavescagabhon an bhe Chised Soaiez is continuano.

aná yoù vila js fumisned dne sostlds nhea zcceived.

Enciocuce

grcut

---

## Page 60

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 61

TO: CHIEF, WH DIVISION

FROM: CHIP DE STATION, MEXICO CITY

---

## Page 62

•.

SECRET

FILE:

SECRET 242219Z CITE MEXICO CITY 3255

DIRECT OR

REDCOAT

• LILYRICREPORTS MAN VISITED SOVIET EMBASSY 17 OCT

FROM 142I TO 1733 HOURS, DRIVING 1966 WHITE VOLNSWAGEN

WITH ORANGE ON BLUE NEW YORK PLATES: 6G-3339.

2. LOCAL LNERGO INFORMED AND REQUESED RESOLVE

PLATES.

SECRET

2 VOCt 67 m 7 8 87 6

SECRET

SEE Hinms: 5743

FILE 50-6-74/5

---

## Page 63

DISPATCH

MOCISIONO ASTON -

SACIA-BT

ока?

sisór or station, Nostro CIEZ

MUUDRO: AULRINCH

1o.

In Docessor lid Ravand H. ORDIS, Prinelpal Apart for the LIBeTt

trujool, vas askad to urapars a socarity rotimo, inclading bla oplaroso, oa

¿DO ORCAMiCY OS LAA LILTNIC, LIATTRD ON LITALLA BASEbORASS TOO VLO BOYle%

WILTRIS

In 160 presents tims location LITRIC la tha namert of tso photo bases

under l contral.

ADEnTALIE, tO LLEXPTY-23, UarO bas boss IO 18d10a810 Of

Intatart of any sure ly too milota: la tDo SEalIT's Mina to lie sou apartearit

nor vas choto In tha psal any asid of literpet of pocullar DEtailar en thelr

(sor1or'8) part vits nacard to eso ald bego and the Dorelb1l1ty khat thay lgitt

Do under photo surval liano.

3o the over for is vort cartled on by this bago la Bond sluse che

Dor promise al lars all ul tha flati Pie son, LUMPPY-2l la a Lidloal

sudan ind atrando his :lasses regularly un con justity blo houro a

tudy bours, (He rnatlicon to do an ascallent orwent and tao exesprod thei

neatlana at 1ba mod al thla, 11a posund paar in sodleai sancal.

Arteally,

Do orelles bot o. tha alaht).

LIEMPPY-23 Terrains no 0000r as Da 190 a

11O B0041NTA VILL GERINDE DE hIS SOS tO OR ADs NUri.

8015t25a9d..

Metribartions

LIMITED

СТОВУ РУГЕРАНСЯ ТО

is C

ОКБРАТСН ТУЧКО, ЯРО КРЕСУХЯ

2044-32260

SBORES

DAnt

8$ Jamary 1957

30-5÷58/3

---

## Page 64

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

AND

ОСА-зібА

oot up and moone

cho

sons ochor activity

that

curtaine and

tinta

Mabilly and

no No 10 lockal to boop dorman

aen an are moond au choii

boros voro a cable em

aro sinnearbed, mittina dodo,

concentration to carriod out.

partinly or quily open to allo

o.Moat of cho daily corescal of

and noon it 10 macedary to

the

soviots vould bave reynalad too coll-cale

both the old am tho in bann

think to foaliy 1o vorkara vich the long' autaoritice due to LIbeTT-L'o

forest assoclatlen tied the Marloan Arty.

The tratson arrons WIth DERBins that caronu

obserration by too 8vlota nela havo rimalad the alanins olat in the ranatian

blindo and also tho tact that thoss altrole alo soldos. open. Tho statson alou

ajerson that the borloti malizo that tory aro under pboro sorellianco.

mincerin that thay siuld ba osen by trosurs saichine tith a, 20100copa.

mon the bullalnes domina tha arrant.

Ales,' AS FANSIUNITATO lo avAro, thera

anyino orrorsin the surior lenary lo santureshali resouves, seldos bas i6

best ruston that the

"Anerrero" aro dolles 14, unint alpir ladlecto sost people

ballere the taxican linemagist so dolin. any such jinrographins and theravy

rEATPITITA DEMENUS'O

statesent charilbo sorters paarlbly ballove tho deadloen

18 the Brao voro closod the berlora kallA start linting fiT a nor 1naillation.

all santino to do 0d.

sona 1se to do so and it 19 bolioned plat they unitablo 11àl not do so valtas

'thoro la a radical chanso ln forlos stilios Healean pallcy.' Tos Diatlos 199

Inatructed CaNt to take mary urtention duti blo scotises vlts LUBSTY-13

to oldast hand in tho pites amelilinco

tha soot litaly to do "burnal".

11n/ss1d01n for youre at the former base

Cond not tAn so nee to the marten tie done to test os

insurenco saloss, art ho anually ano ticipart at tha covar and 10. 0t

a diasdranero la tryle to explain bis cruce pr incons!,'At tista, 10 pearo

part, to bad ds altura pull-ilee copraims to base, vales allorod kla

cautious abour moches hiasali ror envelitato von callas esotings.

370

USE PATINOVA EDITION.

CUTESTON

BRORBE

&

---

## Page 65

ONO

ОГВ,

making L

ote:

MPТY÷9

Da bas nevar noticed any und

876

ChÁt

by

the sovlota.

Access to

the

LIPAPTY-9 Dollones so be tho

roat

can bo

the

12. Tho emir fur chto

bRee: 10

of e

mel maldence.

NIMPPY-9'0

cover work in that or a

ed Insurante

salesmen in a Incal catsaohtle

2Q TY-5 does

vort 10 no cover. LUMT 9'8

cover for the use of.

the

von 10

tbat he

dias scsourtine vork for.

cilent. Mir. To dowr

okal at du times and Litty nover allous

the jervant to mars ove

cleaning purses

меов..

mo squipaent 1s tapt

tien not in

and all lose and phoros

em kapt in a aaro locaint in Lul

13. OFFEND& Carpenit.

I milove the soviete aro avere of tha photo

we auto int not the how when Lette a comes of the vindos

To Brallon dons nirt balloon that this photo base

lo knon t the anime.

ints belief is bond in she-soct that tho Lucalla

coverito la excellent and char

has bos

To Indication that tho Sovlots act

for tho banarlt of obiater

• In the backyard!

It 19 IMonesting

eu nore that the mato ase

no offort to.

It to the back rem and LIckita dis cocate

shotratriche of the wilk the

choal chilann ro

Lower pes thimutt thi

matyam bonuse the lentin of

the school mu marcly chanted and tho children

cautlor 1n order to protect the securlty ur the LICAlLA baso.

15°

As A general connet poreatrang to tbe

truntry of the beses to

It should ba noted thist the Sorlore ano nears of

cho fait that LIMOUSINe is the war/bilider o? cho net LILtIr baliding.

LAUrE to alou che emer of the LotsA couples, canaus a baldina cooper?

416. The Station malino that most of the docallo raporced ln ihte

asspatch am logan to Bnquercars hoverer, the statlon varted to mio the

oplalone or the Precimi Aret and tho statico a rattor of necona la a

cursalidated ror:

POr/MILLAN C. CURTIS

530

8 BCRET

---

## Page 66

SECRET NO FORSEN DISSEM

20.000 785

TO

Director

federal Buresu af Investigation

Attestlas:

AT. S. J. Papich

FROll : Deputy Diractos for PlebI

SUBJECT, !'Viaitor to tha sortes isbassy, sexico City

1. A senaitive and reliabla source laported thai to American

loating men entcrod the soviet Abbassy an 27 October ss$ 1542 hours

and departed at 1549 bours. Moor vera driving a bloes it coovert-

191a Mith Onso plates $669 Si (ubito meerals on tarras): A sot of

protos of the tyo men are provided jor Burenu for icemification.

This OffiCe sould appreciate DellE informed 1f aitier of the t50

• Individuals la the phoros are positivaly ideniifiod.

2. Further Invertiention reveuled tbst these pistro vera 15-

ood to a str. John ll. COINAl af 1EO Hast Church Street, Xenia, Ohio

for usa an a 1963 ku autonadile. COLMAN was barn 3 Forender 1939

In Oblo, the son of ir. WIliteRI. and KIS: JODe COLANE (DEA HARMER).

The parenta bare reparated for sany years, but never difrancod.

. Credit Bureau recorda shoved that in August INCH COLA

as 2i years of age and in attendance at the university of th

AerICES IN MeXiCO City. He previously attended Deytos University.

4. On I4 Hoverber 19ã5, a benber of the Xeria Police Depart.

Bart tas interviered at lila citico. la has krema she COLMAN family

for sura than 25 jears. The Milan faully 1s firmially vell-to-

do and vory pronirent in the area..

isther, a fosmar Air Forca Calatal, uho is now deceased. Coloral

CaLl rao invalved in sore trouble si selfidge Air farca Base,

Michigan in the early 40'3, ani lt 1s believea so rotires Iron thi

115 Porca bocess of this trouble. The informant ild sos knor to

dotails at this Incident.

5. COlni attented local setuais ibero be ass a good student

and for she past tuo years or 2o, had been atteming a sniversity

1n liarico City.

Bes af 1906 and 10 belleved to bare sou returned to tie university

1n Mexico CIty: The iniomant rided shat it bed boes reported

tbet COLMAll narTied a laxican girl and that dis sorber la quita up-

vet over tha sarriage.

CS COPY.

STO JP

SECRET NO FOREIEN DISSE.:

Faces 1199 tulstshie

113/21:38 :41

50.6..

NIVi

Ại

---

## Page 67

4-00000

SECRET NO FORE 2" DISSEM

6.

Tos Infarmont steted in summary that Subjact has nevar

been li any troublo,

that he cases fran an excellout funily back-

Bround, tits the excaption of the father's trouble 1n tbe Al

Faroo, and that there has boen so reasos to question the patriot

150 al aTy senDer of this femily. COLNAl bas been a normal boy

1n every v8r, bao associatod vith raspestablo trianão and ti

Infamant thore nothing unisvarebla concerning lis character ot

reputation.

1. TaRra vera no Haadquarters traces as COllAil.

8. This intonation bes boor nado srailable to your Maxloo

CIty rapresentatim und mey not recolvo further dissemination outo

Dido your burom vithout prior approval of this offico.

CSCI-316/0660)-06

Attacientes

3 Photos

=2.

SECRET 1'0 FG2E 3N D.SSEM

---

## Page 68

SECRET NO FORZIGN DISSEM

CSC1-316/06009-66

vi/s/sane zorance/pen

Distribution!

081.

Addresse

I (50-6-74/5

CI/R$A

00

WH/1/1EXICO

cc - WHY/Chrasc

со - НД/ PO/A

Coordinatod with:

SECRET NO FORSIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 69

DISPATCH

: D'ANU CATION

SECRET

Chior of Duation, Mexico CitY

Chere bi Darleton

MICROFILMED

JAN 171902

POC MICROO

F.

+0ct51n;

Mіт10 100 101 1190

CiN MOGE HOT STRO

остожко

RUBIECT

LETION PQUIRTO

retion Roguireds PI

Refarances

MEXICO CLTY-9135, 4 Hovenber L9

MA- 30597, 17 Hovember 1966

Onlo Licenco plates 4o0)-5X vere 1usueu to 9 h

John B.

•OMAN of 160 lost Church Streat, Xenta, Oblo for use on a 1263 H0.

2. Trasple records reflected that COLMAl van baral? Hoven:

bor 1939 1n Ohio,the son of Mr. WillianT. and Mrs. Jana COLMAN

(noo HARNER).

The paronts were separated for mary yearu, but sever

MINIO

divorced.

STONEN

3. Credit Bureau records shoved that in August 1204 COLMAN

was 24 roara of age anil in attenance at the Uuiveroity of the

Americas In Mexico City. lt provously attended Dayton Unlvoralty.

On 14 Hovenber 1960, a member of the Xenla Palice depart-

ment was intervieved at his arfloe.

He has known: the COLLIAN family

for more than 25 years.

Tiz. HARNER family 1s financially voll-to-

do and very prominent in the area. COLMAN's mother miried hla

father, a former Ali Porce Colonel, who 1a nou deceasca.

COLIAN vas involved in save troublo at Selfridga Alr Force Base,

Michigan in the early 40's, and it 1s belloved he retired from the

Air Farco because of this trouble. The Informant did not knou the

details of this incidont.

5. COLMAN attended local schoals where ha vas a good student

and for the part two years or so, had been attending a univorsity

in Mexico City. He riulted his mother and friends during the

(contimod)

Attaches

Photos

Distribution:

2 - 003, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

ric it?

00l

DEPATCH STADOL ARO NUMBER

Each:le:

DATE

50574/5

T: DU! 1966

INi-15002

5. December 15:66

HOS FILE NUMBER

50.6-711/5

OFFICE

1

"WIICER

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

nam

COORDINATING

LAT.

36 %

RI

Chrono

DiFICE SYMBOL.

DATE

OFFICERS RAME

SB/O/Ha

WH/Sec

1 ln0 68

Asicnicela

RELEASINO

CTICEAS SIGNATUR

ERSTRACT

FORMA

OFFICE SYMBO

C/wн/1

---

## Page 70

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

DISPATEN BYNAS ANTO AUNCHER

HWN- 15082

SSC S53

ouser of 1966 and 1a beltered to bove now returned to the unfvoreity

in Mexico city The informant adied thit it had boon reported thit

collar marriod a Noxican girl and that lio pothor 1s quito uppet over

cho marriage.

tbero has boen, no reason to question the patriotis of any member of

this family COLMAN has been a partel boy in every voy, has asso-

clared vich respectable frienda and the Infortant knova nothing un-

ravarable concerning his éharacter or reputation.

There vera no Bondquartero tracen on COLMAN.

8. Thio information is beins passed to LiNiCO Headquartore and

wo are attaching a set or the phutus casins them for positive identi-

rication an olthar at the two men.

784115

PAGE NO

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

ariencern

SECRST

CONTINUEO

---

## Page 71

-PROCESSING ACION:

DISPATCh

SECRET

Chief, NONUSB

Chief, WH Div181on

DO MOEXING ACQUIALO

ONLY QUALIFILO DESE

CAN JUDGE IROIXINIO

Chios of Station, Mexico Cine

SUBJECT:

Unidentified Visitors to the Soviet Embassy lo Mexico City

ACTION: REQUIRED - REFERENCEI

REFERENCE: MEXICO CITY 9135

Attached are copies of nesoranda and photographe

sent to the Legal Attache concerning the Reler-

that were

ence.

for Willard C. CURTIS

Attachmentg:

#1 - Memos

#2. - Photog

Distribution:

12' - C/ MOMUSE

w/atts

RY RES

PATI

CROSS REFERENCE TO

UH/!

3S COPY

DISPATCH STUBOL

AND HURLEET

HMMA-30597

SECRET

DATE

17 November 1966

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-8-10/11

---

## Page 72

14-00000

- Attachaent:*

FOR:

HEREWITH ATTACHNSST TO:

HAMA-30597, 17 Novenuer 19vü

SECRET

16 Horsaber 1930

DIORANDUM FOR:

F203;

SUDJECT:

Soviet Intelligence Services

Reference is made to our memorandus of 7

November 1966,

same subject,

concerning tuo unidentified

the Soviet Erbassy in Mexico City on

27 October 1966.

Attached are photographs.

óf these two

individuals.

THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOUSCE.

MUST NOT BE DISSFMINATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE

YOUR OFFICE WITHOUT PRICK APPROVAL OF THS QRIGINATING

OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY.

# 11167.

SECRET

6-лі 1

jet. 11 lie sidellit

SangirLitt

---

## Page 73

iris

SECRET

I Novosbor 1068

asthaa L. Ferrin

Logal Attach

WHORANDUM TORI

FROH 8

SUBJECT:

Borlot Intolligonce seritoes

According to a sonsitivo,

reliable source.

Aver icao-100k1ng mon vialtod tho Bovlot Embassy Ia

toxico City from

1542 to 1549 hours on 27 Octobor 1968.

They. yore

driving a black IC convortible. with white on

maroon Oblo tags & 4669 8X.

photographs of the too

Visitora stir be furnishod to yow office when avallabo

3:

it would be approclated i1 you would advlso

this office of any lurther information you say dovelop

on the idontity of these two lodividuals.

TRIS INPORKATION IS FROM A COXPIDENTIAL SOURCE.

IT

MUST HOT BE DISSENINATED IN MOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE

YOUR OFPICE TITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATINO.

# 11129

Dlatribution:

Original = Addrassoo

-50-2-4/A

50-8-10/11

- Mono Chroa.

SECRET

CS COPY

---

## Page 74

FOR:

Chios, RONUSE

HEREWITH ATTACHMENT TO:

HNX-30597, 17 Novembor 1966

SECRET

ATT#

AS COPY

•HMMA 50597

50. 6-74/5

578-10°

---

## Page 75

157)

readine to

FILE NO.

M-DEP TO TILE NO.

PILE RIOO

NET. TO BRANEN O

DESTROT

Osie.

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SECRET

UMIT MOTIFI

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODLETION FROMIBITEO

ACTION

INFO

WHE

GIAN COPY

ADVANCE

copY;

Diario Unio

SECRET 042225Z CITE MEXICO CITY 9135 (EASBY ACTING)

DIRECTOR

WOMUSE

40.1

1.. PER LINITED TWO AMERICAN LOOKING MEN ENTERED

SOVIET EMBASSY 27 OCT 1542 HOURS, LEFT EMBASSY 1549 HOURS.

WERE DRIVING BLACK MG CONVERTIBLE WITH WHITE ON MAROON ONIO

TAGS 4669

SK.

2. ADVISING LOCAL LNERCO AND POUCHING PHOTOS.

SEC

RET

BT

.33361

SECRET

50-6-7415

LIAITED

---

## Page 76

SECRET

28 November 1966

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/1

ATTENTION

: Jane. Zerance

SUBJECT

: Ohio License Plate - 4669 SK

Attached hereto is the office of Security

report

concerning the owner of Ohio License Plate 4669

SK as;

requested by cable from Mexico City (IN 33367) .

2.

Office of Security indices contain no additional

information concerning John H. Coleman.

Plan Aarwale

c/wH/Security

Attachment:

a/s

SECRET

¡crates in selecte

---

## Page 77

SECRET

MNORJIDU FOR:

Headquurters

•SUBÜECT:

Nutchobile License Plates

Iuunty or Ouner

Túện94-203

F SD/1

1.

Reierence is mide to. Headquarters lead IWX dawed 8

Novenher 1960.

On 14 liovencor I9úo, the racordo it tie Uhio Staie Burau

of Motor Vehicles, Colusbus, Chio, roveuled Onio License Pluta

$4669 SK belonga io John H.

collail, 100 W. Cnuri Street, Keuid,

Onio, on a 19ú3 1.G, autocobile.

Crininal files (no soporate. subversive iilos), ao Xenio,

Ohio Police Departrent, reviewed on 14 Noverber iguo,

record in the narc of Jcha il. CULA: Ur his paccnts, vullia. 'P. and

Mrs. Jure Horner COLNii exiept a ninor trufrio riolation *gainst

Tohn ii. COLMAN in Noverber 1958. Truttic aoonds nerledted Jehn i.

.COLiMil was born 3 Novazber 1939 in Ohio.

There ties no lecori at the

Greerc Courty Crininal Court, Xenia, in

the nare .of Jonn n. COLMAN

The records oi the Credit Burean o1 üitere Countj,

revicied 14 Novenber 1906, showed that Johmü. CoLet, son Di William

T. and Mº5. Jane Hiarer COLaE, Was 24-Jeurs.or ago.in digust 1954

and in uticrdance at the University oi the Ameriouo in Mexico City,

iexico. Freviously he astended Daycon Universjüy.

5.

Tha credit file of Willian T. COLMAN (futher), deceased,

and krs. Jane Harrer COLMS (nother) showed they nore segsraced

lor vany jears but were rever divorced.

6.. On 14 Noventer 1965, Dar1 CUOPER, leuia Police Departeent,

a doveioped imortant, wes interviewed at his orfice. Le sus broim

SUBJBCT and his paronts for core than 25 jears.

coinutr sanily

recided rear this Inforant for many years and SUbubct plijed in

nis jard with the ouher neighbornoed childrei.

liis nodier is the

IOrEe? JurG HARHER, daughter of the rormer Fiusident und Ciaimen

of the board of the Easey Grocery Company. The Mliutck rarily is

-1-

SEGNET

PIRORITY

---

## Page 78

SECRET

1ú:954-203

finuncially well to do and very prominent in this area.

wother hurried his father, a forer Culonel in the U.s. Air force,

who is how deceased. Col. COlAN was involved in sume. trouble ut

Selfridge Air Forco Basc, Michigun, in early 1240's and 1s believed

to huve been retired from the Air force becuuse of this trouble.

cOOPER dous not krow the detuils of this incident.

.

colin attended the locul schools where is was a goud

student

und, for the pust two yeurs or so, hus been uttending

University in Mexico Clty.

he visited his mother and iriends

here during the past sumer and is believed to have novrcturied

to the university.

COOPER added that it has been reported in this

city that SUBJECT has hurried u lexicon girl und that his mother

Is quite upsct over this carriage.

8. inforint stated in currary that SUWECT has never been in

any trouble, that he comps iron an excellent luruly background,

with the exception of the father's trouble wille in the dix force,

and thut there has been no reason to qiution the patriotism or

any lember of this funily.

The repututions oi both SUBJECt and

his parents ure excellent in this area and the nother's funily

it one of the best troun änd most promineut in this.county. JUB-

JECT has been a normal boy in every wily, his ascociated with res-

nectable friends and COOPER knows nothing urduvorable corcerning

his charucter or reputation.

SEGRET

---

## Page 79

DISPATCH

Chole ID

-PROCISSING ACTION

sennhaps.

culchf station, Nerdco CItz

LIsTY Project Renoval Roguost

IRLO: RUTRUNCO

Micronim

Metloa Requirodi Sea Paracraph 2

Statioa Maxico City'a Project LILIPTY aspirus on 30 lovc-ber

1256.

Porvorded horvith and undor sopercto cover in split transalsaion

1o tha Requect for feroval of Project LIcent.

2. It 10 roqüastad that Broject IlENTY ba renoved for the pertai

1 Dace=bor 1966 through 50 lovacher 1967 la the ount of 145,000. cs

thia total, 59,020 chould ba allottod 1or IX 1907 and $15,950 505

FY 195T.

FOr/WIZLara G. CURNIS

Attachaent?

Loft hend cido b/s

right hand dido u.s.c.

Distributions

3 - chito w/ctt h/u& u.s.c.

CROSS REPRENCE TO

DISPATOM STMBOL AMO MUMBER

5285A-30403

pArE

-26 cetober I9í5

MOS FRE NUMBER

55-657417

---

## Page 80

-2-

the LIbRICK installation and personnel.

Specifle exaaples of the LIprY

Projectle procresa and contributione to the NiD will be found in Section

CHAKOKS

operational As noted in tho previous request for project konewel,

tho foraor LINteD property was cold to LL CuSha, who as per forcal arco.

sent with the Station, desolished tho olf structure and cons ructed a now

edifice.

While 1t was tritially conte plated to place the Leaved

(LeniXo -6 and -?) porsonnel in the nes bullding and to rotnin the base,

equal division of vorcload betwech LILYUC and LITTED, it was lator

acusued to nove the present LILYRIC basehouso personnel (LICPIYs-13, -14,

-26 and -27) Into the now bado instead, alone with the following ancillary

modificationas.

in Increaso in the hours of doth the photograyhic and physical surveillarco

coveraze provided on the new bare by the LILYRIC operators (côca-1600

hours) durine the weekdays and to here the LiTTED base provido...

photographic and physical curveillance coveraõe from 1600-1430 hours

on weekdays and frun 0y20-1300 hours or weekends. These chances vero

dictated by the followins consideratiors:

1.

The new LINCUSIn bullding Offers a nuch better vantaie poirt

for both photographic and prycical surveillanco than does the

present complex wilch houses the LILNiIC and LININED lases.

theretoro,

tho Station felt tint. the personnel occupying this

new base should be thoso porsessins the highest technlerl skills

and also those able to provide tre sost thorough and couplete

coverate. Since the Llllted bese now ras anly ons traired

operator wille the LILYRIC bacchouse has three, the LILyiuC sroup

a revlason of working hours vas indicated.

?.

Because it was apparent thit the coveraic of the Lutuck

lactallation rould do a lonú-race esd continuin, requiresent,

the Station desired to stefi the row base with personnel of lonjo

range potential. LInIrY-6, row clost to yeers old, does not

possess this potential; horever, the LILNIC agent compleis

happily.coxbines experienced percorel with youthful ajents.

3. Fliallo, the social and Pirancial status of the LIltIc

personnel is such more compatible aid consistent. with the en-

vironent of the new bulldirg ties 1s that of the LIITED facily.

The above-cited revised work schedule was initiated in July 1966 and

the actual coveseit uf the LILYRICs Into the new baso beion in Lato

Septeaber 1966.

---

## Page 81

-AMO]8:

: но.

CLASSIFIEN MESSAGE

SECRET

OHIBITED

inor Daie.

5061.24

CORD COPY

0. 0in Dive

INFO

LIC, VR SB 8, CE, C3 FI, TED- T5D-6

SECRET 0S1831Z CITE MEXICO CITY 7533

DIRECTOR

6 JUN 66 IN 31 733

REDCOAT LIEMPTY LIMOUSINE

Lo AFTERNOON 26 MAY LILYRI: AND LIMITED OBSERVED VIKTOR V.

KALYGIN, EMBASSY ADMIN OFFICER, EXII EMBASSY WITH MOVIE CAMERA.

KALYGIN TOOK. POSITION DIRECTLY ACROSS SIRGET FROM LILYRIC AND

LIMITED AND PANNED AREA WHICH INCLUDED FRESENT LILYRIC, LIMITED

AND. NEW LILYRIC BASE HOUSES WHICH LATTER CWNED

AND BEING

CONSTRUCTED BY LIMOUSINE.

2.. CAMERA APPEARS TO BE S NM SANKYO AUTO-AX WITH F/L.T ZOOM

LENS FROM 7-5 TO 30 MM. THIS CAMERA PROBABLY WOULD NOT GIVE

CLEAR DETAIL OF BASE HOUSE AREA.

SECRET

MITE

---

## Page 82

Charlota 1

(Tal you file?)

REPRODUÇTION

Des no

CLASS

To File no:

zit

29

Branch!

SECRET

8011160

пой

Meyi co Car.Y

ACTION

SR-S

I RID COPY

Do Oor Our

tus, VR, WHi8, CI,QJ/0ps. UT/KrA:FE,1SD le,

SECRET 232000Z

23 Now 65 1. 00632

DIF. CITE MEXI 5393

PEDIDOD LIMOUSINE

RECUEST FRANCIS J. COIGNE DISCUSS DESIRARILITY TECHNICAL

INSTALLATIONS IN NEW LIMITED BUILDING ON SPECULATION FUSTEALERS

MIGHT OUE DAY MOVE IN, STATION HOWEVER DOES NOT FAVOR PERMITTING

THEIR OCCUPANCY WHILE LIMITED FUNCTIONING. IF THIS DESIRED WOULD ES

NECESSARY ACT WITHIM NEXT THIRTY TO FORTY FIVE DAYS AS THIRD FLOUN

MOY DEING POURED AND LIMOUSINE ESTIMATES STRUCTURAL WORK WILL DE

FINISHED SOMETIME IN JANUARY, PLANS THEN START INTERIOR FINISHING

BEGINNING WITH TOP FLOOR SO LIE:PTY-6 CAN MOVE BACK IN FIRST..

PRESUME ANY INSTALLATIONS DESIPED WOULD HAVE TO BE EMPEDDED IN

PLASTER.

SECRET

CFM

ĐT

5393 FRANCIS SO COIGME FUSTEALERS NÖT FAVOR LIEMPTY-&:

lungs/ limite

---

## Page 83

* 9 K

ROUTING

MESSAGE FOR

oRiG, CaBostos • Videla

UNIT, NU/L

O INDEX

SECRET

EXT

14507

O NO INDEX

DATE: 10 March 65

NO TiE IN CS FL NO. 201-5762

TO MEXICO CITY

moM DIRECTOR

ON. WAS

TO

NO OL 4, BPA, Ve,FILE

INTO

ROUTINE OUTINE

392

CITE DIR

эi10n t

MEXI

LIEMPTY LIMOUSINE

REFY MEXI 2732 (IN 19326)*

APPROVAL GRANTED DELAY INTIIAL PAYMENT.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT!

*Limousine wishes delay initial payment for

limitdd property for 90 days.

TELCCORD

TOCOORD

WH/LOg

OL/RECD

D0, 1200,

11.3.

Kaufman

C/wH/1

COORDINATINO OFFICERS

AC/WHD

INO OFPiCKA

SECRET

Rachodad lion autornati

booungrad.o

l and

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSÜING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUTHENTICAVINT

OFFICER

• Copy No

---

## Page 84

гуро SECRET

ACTIOn

MeXice CiTY

Whore D.

SECRET 09:9282

DIR CITE MEXI 2732 EASBY ACTING

9HA4 65-126-193285

LIMESA LIMOUSINE

REF HMMA 25310

1. LINOUSINE REPORTS CONSTRUCTION WILL BEGIN ANY DAY ON NEW LIMITED

HOUSE, AWAITING LAST OF GOM. PERMITS. LIFEUD-6 HAD ALREADY SPOKEN

TO LIMOUSINE DOOKKEEPER ABOUI POSSIBILITY RENT ONE OF NEW APARIMENTS.

2.. IN TRYING TRANSFER FIDEO COMISO FROM NOW DEFUNCI BANCO DE LA

MFOPRIEDAD DE LA INDUSTRIA TEXTIL TO ANOTHER BANK, LIMOUSINE DISCOVERED

BANKS NOW NOT ACCEPTINO THIS TYPE FIDEO COMISO. HENCE ME OBLIGED

¡O TAKE DIRECT TITLE TO PROPERTY. TITLE TRANSFER CHARGES BASED

IN PERCENTAGE OF PROPERTY DALUE AND HE MUSI PAY ALMOST 22,000

•P.SOS. TO HACIENDA. OWING REAL ESTATE COMMITMENIS AND CASH

CUTLAY ON LIMITED BUILDINO, HIS CASH POSITION SHORT. ASKS IF CAN

DELAY INITIAL PAYMENI. OR AS,08O PESOS 99 DAYS.

3. RECOMMEND MO APPROVAL.

Japsul

SECRET

Dissan AppLicABLa To RIBAT, LiMESA LiMuST

USINE

SELRET

2.M

iTED

---

## Page 85

SISPATCH

CUSSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MUeRTO FOR INDEXINO

Chlef, WH Division

XX

NO INDEXINO REQUIRED

ONLY: QUALINED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

chiet of station, Mexico cieN

LTEMPTY /LIMOUSINE

DA REQUIED - REFERENCES.

References DIR-77743, 15 January 1965.

Attached herewith ls a sterilized copy of the Memorandum

of Agreement executed with LIMOUSINE on 3 February 196% Both

Three

signed. and dated coples are retalned In Station files.

LIMOUSINE and his wife appeared and sighed the agreement, with

Robert L. EASBY acting for OOYOKE. It will be noted that the final

torms were somewhat more favorable than Headquarters had authorized.

Station had ample opportunity

to study the plans and they

were so ideal from both the operational and living standpoint that

can therefore

once, and the

on change me foregust dor completion is serit about

begin almost at

I July.

-3.

Consideration had been given in the Station to installing

line-feed switchable transmitters In the two lower apartments in

view of

their

probable attractiveness to FUSTEAL personnel. However,

It is Station's vlew thät given LIMOUSINE's close involvement with

KUBARK on a number of matters it would be well nelther to have. too

much FISTEAL interest aroused in the bullding nor

to give them the

opportunity to observe the pattern of LIFEUD/6 at such lose range.

With reference to paragraph. 5 of the memorandum, Station will

probably.decide to. have LIFEUD/6 draw upg/normal contract with

LiMOUSINE and pay him his rent, which will be passed by LimousinE to

station at regular intervals:

The question of how to route an

apparently normal transaction around LIMOUSINE's bookkeeper has not

yet been resolved.

Willard C. CURTIS

ATTACHMENT: Memo of Agreement, l cy, h/w

3 - Chief, WHD w/att..h/m

CROSS ESTERENCE TO

201-5762

GROUPT

Cargin: 1:

tea action

SS COPY

DISPATCH SYROL AND NUMBER

HMMA -25310

CLASSIFICAIION

SECRET

DATE

3 February 1965

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-74/5

---

## Page 86

3/6

i01

ren dare to pay the lad wieneshe la minor

.n:.

he Clare instril rened lisauce paros will be

mild on the leninnine of construetter of the latte.

installment wil

te nit an complette of the suntruct on.

Construettrior tie lew ritalia to i minerai do tie cito lu quantton

stricture aul ripartro if tie aite.

3. The balance of lio, lux: posed will de ropala vichen tun (2) joaro of con-

pletton of tim building: As past oi dits payaan:, die siartoent uhich

18 to vecudy up entlie top Welll Muor will in let rent iran to sorte

rs. such: illior periss ni. tle l1i "i, Obvernment

may contarate for tir (2) yeore at a calculared rent t 2,300 posoa

bonehly, Inclulies cly vaint.

The interritanillis coverin this two year

tree pental will. in rexotiated by me with the representative uf the U.s.

Guvertuent ad vill le constered pait, or thile Menoralia ul ivoonest.

1s. The 4,100 peon renaline lilit in jold In a lump sun as the aid of the

second hell year ur

occupancy or the siartment.

5. I further adros that, vlll, on complotion of to buildili, exocute a rontal

contract with

li accoriance vith tie pertinent jart of parsaraph 3

above.

This continct tile be accouperleil ly all divrltton cotion for

or other parson approved by the representative of the U.S. Gover

sent to renew tue rental contract fur such perlala of time as the U. S.

Governent naj seo fit. The contract shall atipuinto that any Increaso in

rontal will not, exceed the propprilento mita at vile!, rentals have boon

Inconsol for the otler apatients in the sane bulldirus.

6. Any rental payment. male to me or ny ropresentativos by

during the

tro yoni fize rental parloi, vill be joturod to tio ropresentative of the

U.S. Governmone, nuis any such approprintely printel dianies for build-

Ine noualia aral on lul eunice do unald murally lail to dio rossuralbility

uf thia loruaiid..

COPY

---

## Page 87

11400000

!:)

malit. (tiar

c10a the

we eillaron, lousing

•ally, tope the ironto hail amaterim the nov adiften,

I will audito pican to the lo to deterrent lee mull itrog lo nate auchs

MAXICo ClEr, Me.die.

i.

Repreentntlve o !!. ?. Orvatime::t

---

## Page 88

MESENUE FORM

/SECRET

ехт. .

DATI,

NIV!

1006, 4507.

15 Jan

65

O NO MODI

10:

• MEXICO CITY

MOM DIRECTOR

CoN, WitS

JAREDIATE

NO 2GC2, CLE, DAS, BPA, VRALE

MEXT (PP,OR 178) REA

77743

REF: • MEXI 8159. (IN 58393)*

1. APPROVAL GRANTED SELL TO LINOUSINS LIMITED PROPERTY UNDER TERE

TERMS OUTLINED PARA ONE REI.

2. PROCEED AS FOLLOWS:

A, LINOUSINE TO DRAW UP LEASE WITH APARTMENT OCCUPANT FOR

THREE YEARS WITH RENTAL AT 2,300 PESOS PER MONTA/ WITH FOLLOWING

ADDITIONAL PROVISOS:

(1) OPTION TO RENEW FOR SUCH ADDITIONAL PERIODS YOU SEE

FIT WITH RENTAL SSTABLISHED BASED ON NEGOTIATIONS CONSISTNT WITH

RENTALS PAID BY OCCUPANTS OTHER APARTMENTS.

(2) PROVISO BINDING LIMOUSINE'S SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.

B. DRAW UP SEPARATE CONTRACT WITH LIMOUSINE OUTLINING AGREEMENT

PARA ONE REF AND FORWARD SIGNED COPY HDAS. AGREENENT SHOULD PROVIDE

FOR CREDIT RENTAL OFFSET TO KUBARK BY LIMOUSINE PLÜS RETURN TO KUBAI

OF ANY MONTHLS RENTAL PAYHENTS MADE BY APARTMENT OCCUPANT TO

LIMOUSINT FOR PERIOD FREE RENTAL IF SUCH IN FACT MADE. ALSO

DETERMINS WHAT WILL HAPPEN RENTAL OFFSET AGREEMENT SEOULD INOUSINE

RETIRE, DIE CR PROPERTY LEAVE HIS CONTROL

END OF JESSAGE

(See page 3)

СОСКОРНАТІИЗ ОРНІСТОЛ

OBVICER

SECRET

REPROQUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 89

14-00000

ROUTING

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

ORIO

DAM,

10, MEXICO CITY

FROM "DiRECTOR

O NO NODI

PAGE 8 2

INSTATE

PRIORIM

INTO

10

CoS 17743

•EH Comment: LIMOUSINE AGREES PAY $12,000 FOR LIMITED, 60% IN CASH,

RSHAINDER HITHIN THREE YEARS. NEED REPLY BEFORE COB 13 JANUARY.

WH/LOG

OL/RECD,

OL/

phone) see, OGC 65-0119

WH/PO/A

KAUFMAN

DESHOND FITZGERA

CHIEF,

WHID

OFFICEN

_ COORDIMATIMO OPPIELA

SECRET

OCDONDUCTION AY OTHER THAN THE ISSUNG DEFICE 1S

DOMINITES

AUTMENTILATINO

"now tin

---

## Page 90

i LASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TỌTAL COO188

GUT Y

ACTION

INTO

ADVARE TOY

MR. MILE, 0L 41, 0 00 2 2et

LAIT

RÉPROOUCT ION PROMIÓITÃO

35

Рід

12 JAN 65 058393

DIR CITE MEXI Z!:?

LIEMPTY LIMCUSIC

REF DIR 74922

M. LIMOUSIN ASSED FOLDING TERESE

N. TOTAL PURGINE PICE ES 10,03E DOL:ARE

PAYAGLE IN PF.SOS,

SIXTY PERCE!! IN CASH.

B, 50,900 PESOS CAS D: BORINNING COUSTRUCTIOY CABOUT IS FEED.

C. BALANCE CASH 'AY CUE DU COMPLETIO COISTPUGTICS CAROUNG ! JULYS..

D. BALANCE OF 59,902 FION DEST REPAYARLE HITHIN 3. YESOS FROM

COMPLEIION CON TRUERION.

E. AS PARTIAL CARD IN MARISSE AROVE ANOUNT, RENT OF 2320 PESOS

HUNTH! TO DE WEHELD FIRE THEE YEARS. COUTAL TEE MOT TO CHANGE

DURING THIS TICE

STREFACTE? AT PITE SO SIFFEREYST FROM OINER

APART"ENTS SAID GUTLET SOS DERIOD IE YRE OR DITIL TUBARK TERMIUATES

2, LIOUSINE PRETERE CLOSE FRANSACTION UP SOON DE PUSSIBLE AND

HOPES PAY OFE ME DUET HITHIN FIRST Y9.

3. LENGH TERM MUNDGE OFTION ON PROPERTY NOT

SPECIFICALLY MCREFO WITH

LEMOUSINE, BUT NO REASON FELIEVE HE WOULD

SECRET

---

## Page 91

16: 58373

LÖT AGREE TO ANY TEPM HE STIPULATE. JULY JONER MAY DE LENGTH

TINS HE REMINS ACTIVE IN FIRM AS ME SON 6S.

4. REQUEST MO COMENTS BY IS JAN AS WOULD LIKE BE ABLE

START DEMOLITIDA BESCRE HE LEAVES FOR U.S. 17 JAN.

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 92

Tam

Dexin i

10?.1

¡SECRET E

esgamm/190

MEVENCA CONT

VR, FILE, ASI ORI

DIR CITE MEXI 2998

LIENFTY LIROISINE

REF MEXT 202S (1/U-19lCE) *

REQUEST REPLY SOOVEST.

SECRF.T

* RE LONGO SILE PRICE

SECRET

177 cir. 107

Arr.

iner rarai

удія.

8. 0446

NEW 6N53469

---

## Page 93

олюі

ĐIT

MESSAGE. FORM

17

O NO NOC

ONU NOMINA

3.

318:16

05 01r

ком

2O1O0 CITY

MARCTOR

WH• 8

• 0G 0-2, 01-4 BPR, VR, FiLC

Bustos 0000.

02861

REZ; 1223 2029 (81 48103)

1. INE TO FELIS TOUNE DOLIVE COFOIDSTED ESGONARE LICITAI

WHICH DICLUDEL DESCOLAIS.

8. RECHINSIS PASI

LOTE

3. SO LAS DOS PATSITI LOS POSSALE CLORIO SALES PIGCS AOULD ES ERASNO SO

(MATON CON)

D. ADVIL ESTOS CROSIEO. FREOS AOCIPIABLE.

LimiTE

BẠD OF LESSO

STA Neds CLOADIMiCATioN MAS SiMiTATiON FOR NEgaT

ATION

tico 3. Secasores

propias luz sen

desighon

0001800

PARMARAROPRA

Y OY ETHES THAN THALSSUMO OIYCE, IS PROMMILIA

1. 1979509°

---

## Page 94

B BC RET

30 December 1966

AIDE MEMOIRE

sUsT sale of tauriD property to LINCUBIN

In 1955 KUBAR purchased the LOTTiD property (215 ag. metro of Lan

and house) 1n Mexico City for $12,000 and then spent $3,500 for replro and

renovationa to accomodate KUBARS operational reguiremento.

Because of Ite Idest location directly across the street snoo the

USR Sobaday, this property which was for sale was purchaeed 8o KUBARK could

establ1ah.control over this spectfle piece of property at that time.. For

reasons of aecurity, legal title for LIMITED vasvested In agent LIMOUBINE

who acted as the cut-out vehicle. A statcuert of trust 15 on file at tbe

Station in which LIHOUBINS acknowledges XUBARK's true ownership of the

property. LlAlton bas been usia operationally vita outstanding success and

presumably sithout comprocise, and 1t 18 WH's Intention to continue using

.1to

It recently developed that part of the WilliED house crumbled, and

all

• the

house ma round to de in a dimilar state of diarepalr. Repairo and

Linited remodelling,

houever costly, did not seem to be econonically

feastble, and in addition certain other operational and security considerationa

seemed to dictate the need for a ney kind of structure-a higher building so

our angle of survelllance could be laproved, and the addition of a couvercial

Interest on the ground level to provide à delly Ploy of people (such as a

bank, retail store, etc.) frection of a comercial building is vitin the

zoning restrictions of the district.

The coat for ne constructlon of a sultable bullding has been

estimated upvarde. of $55,000: Although the property 10 located in a BLouly

deteriorating district,

nonetheless the proposition is bankable. With land

includod (appraicad at: $14,500 to $15, 000), a 10cal bank 10 1111148 80 1000

80% of the neu constructica cost us 855,000.

WOOSINE vould not vesture lnto such a construction progras on his

own account at this time. de vould, hovever,

folloy through with 1t as an

accoamodation to KUBARK If the teras vere equirable. Accordingly, he has

Indicated be vill be willlag to put up 20% of the construction cust from bio

ovn runds, borrow the remaining 80$, and then affered to pay KUBARK

180,600 penis or $14,448 (appraised value by bank) for the 215 sa setres of

Land. Nothlag would be paid for the old building, since little, 1f anything,

could be realised fron the sale of the old building and the cost of razing it

vould far exceed the sale of the salvage naterialo.

Since much of litoUsIng's cash funds would be tied up in financing

tbe new

construction, he effered to effect payment to KUBARK at the rate of

4,300 редов ог $344.00 per nonts over a 38 year period with the first payment

comencing 3 years after completion uf castruction or July 1905. LIMOUSInE

vowld execute a non-intérest and unsecured note for the land. do vould ensuro

KUBARK tepancy retention righto to rental of third floor apartegat at the rate.

as $2,300 pesos per month with AUBARk rederving therigat. to cancel any time.

The apertaent vould be built to MUBARK's renuimmanta.

---

## Page 95

Sino Headguartore dearos lo ocacurio 1ta relatinoe VIta LINCOSINE ADA

conesdura al tupractielo and not focolblo to adatalitor postal proporty. 1l agrond la

pIsCIpLO Er Lho DaLO Co LDIOUSEIS or the LITED proporty. In ehle connatioa, 18 10

Coroidarod nerevorlay cat LIMOUSa bas sendorad ertracaly valublo sorica co

lor 10riero vould equal pards of 135.000. Noti chelanding thio and chet KUBiRA

oal conttt

10 00

Ancis urla cornicoe, hovevor, alnco tho proalasury noce vouis to

irocured ara in order Lo arold subsemcni tiplicartone and possibio nucuro cora.

LOGO 1O UDO OVARE LO LINITED PrOpOrTY bubeoquantly pasced ron LIMOUSD'o or bio

ostacolo control, Hondarlos Profettod o lump oua payzane fron tha vei curost.

ara Lo chinass affared uno calo of LiUTiO Lo LikolaDus al a radurod rata, speculeally,

1e set Lao segullacias LAlto viLa Coa Marico city coas 89,000 lo 843, 000. 40 =

socond alloratino, La tho oveat LIMOUSIl lo mabio lo ralos cão alagle lup pun

farsetz, Headquartora vicid to villine lo ascopt a bulk af tha pelo priço as à dous

jaysone and lue balnoco a porchly jarpesta by vlibroldica tho agroad sosial so a

of jartiad amared paymanto:

Tua allachad draft al Hoedguartora cablo autharion COS Morico O1ty tO

DOBCHOTO ILDAs DIO LO LIMOUSDI SOtTOOR 82,000 to 822,000.

Minicit

---

## Page 96

MESSAGE FORM 17

ECRET

Via C. Bustos-VIdelaJab

1507.

• NO INDEX

1: 28 Doc 1961

O FLE IN OS FLE NO. .

Nexico CIty

ROUnNg OS

3

100ms

PRIORITY

40 ₴

NO 0L 4, BPA OGE 2, FAlE, UR

CINE DIR

TO

MEXI

72229

REF:

MEXI 1898 (IN 41069)

LIEMPTY LIMOUSINE

NEGOTIATION

1. IQS APPROVES/SALS LIMITED PROPERTY TO LIMOUSINE MISJORIUO!

208625544xxkaaoconocm4zngxxaxxxmx8v2a21b73x4x2s.&xXxKaKer.Er

MWANESEX SUDJECTEXTOOSOLLOWEE ALONG THE FOLLOWING LINES:

A. " KUBARK INTERESTS BE PROTECTED TO UTOST WITH LIMOUSINS

ASSURANCES KUBARK WILL CONTINUE HAVE OCCUPANCY RETENTION RIGHTS.

ASSURANCE MAY REQUIRE SEPARATE LONG TERM RENTAL/LEASE AGREEMENT WITH

KUBARK RESERVING RIGHT CANCEL ANYTIME, HQS REALIZES FIXED RENTAL PRICE

NOT FEASIBLE UNDER LONG TER!! LEASE AND THEREFORE LEASE COULD PROVIDE FOR

INITIAL FI: SD RENTAL WITH A SLIDING SCALE ADJUSTIENT THEREAFTER. :

B. SINCE PROMISSORY NOTE FOR 1S0,600 PESOS WOULD BE UNSECURED

WITH FINAL PASWENT NOT DUE UNTIL JAN 1972, SOS PREFERS TOTAL PANUENT FOR

LINITED AT OUTSET RATHER THAN WAIT 62 YEARS.

c.

REALIZING LIXOUSINE'S POSSISLE FINANCIAL STRAIN NAKE

SUCH LARGE PAYENT INITIALLY, HQS WILLING ACCEPT LOWER SALE PRICE AT

REASONABLE DISCOUNT RATE. IF LINOUSINE UNASS LIQUIDATE WITH

ONE

CÖNTINUED -

Iтiї

AUTHI

COORDISATING ORELCIRS

S

EC RET

PEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Lct144

coss ia

---

## Page 97

14-00000

UNIT .

EXT

@INDEX

• NO INDEX

TIL IN CS AL NO. :

MESSAGE FORM.

PAGE THO

ROUTING

1 7

PRIORITY

RaNi DIRECTOR

•CONt,

INTO

CT 048

. INFO.

> 2228

LUNP SUM PAYIENT AT ENIANCED REDUCED PRICE, WILL ACCEPT CONBINITION

PAYNENT AT REDUCED RATE WITH GREATER PORTION PAYABLS AT. SETTLEVENT AND

REMAINDER AS OFFSET AGAINST MONTILY RENTAL AGREEVENT.

2.

HQS FEELS ABOVE PROVISOS INPORTANT AVOID SUSSEQUENT IMPLI-

CATIONS AND POSSIBLE FUTURE TOTAL LOSS EVENT LINITED SUBSEQUENTLY

PASSES FROM LIMOUSINE'S OR HIS ESTATE'S CONTROL.

3.

ADVISE TERMS FOR FINAL APPROVAL CONCLUNING AGREEMENT.

nige

END OF NESSAGE

(draft)

ne)

P. W

Hank

Beston nanto

CHIEF

WIID

Kinessen

CHTES

KAUFIAN

WH/1

ALLABINO

• PIC.

COOIDIYATINO

OFFICIRS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE iS FROMISITED.

AUTHINTIGLADAI

---

## Page 98

,5

CLASSiFIED MESSAGE

¡SECRET

mr 29 tom

PROPLiCTiON

Mexico CiTY

ATIVANCE"

•CMP

ACTION

wH-8

100

VR, SILE

BPA OL-y

Siorteo

TO: UNIT

TIME

TUArO

SECRET 171840Z

DIR CITE MEXI 1969

LIEMPTY LIMOUSINE

REF MEXI 1898(141069) 6

REQUEST REPLY.

SECRET

i7 Dec6:1:44750

*CouLd BegiN RAziNp As SooN AS AgiecRieNT

with tuBnek CompLeTed (Re LimousiNe PropeRTy

L

SECRET

LImITED

---

## Page 99

9325 RED/L

4506 B1ck/L

SECRET

MEXI CITE DIR

REF: NEXT 1898 (N 41069)

LIEMPTY LIMOUSINE

1.

HQS APPROVES SALE LIMITED PROPERTY TO LIMOUSINE AS

OPERATIONAL NECESSITY AND ACCOMODATIONTO KUBARK OVERRIDING KUBARK

SERVANT.

FINANCIAL INTERESTS BUT WOULD-PREFER-USE -FORMULA-AS FOLLOWS:

A. KUBARK INTERESTS BE PROTECTED TO UNOST WITH LINOUSINS

ASSURANCES KUBARK WILL CONTINUE LAVE OCCUPANCY RETENTION RIGHTS.

RENTAL/

ASSURANCE MAY REQUIRE SEPARATE LONG TERM/LEASE AGREEMENT WITH KUBARK

RESERVING RIGHT CANCEL ANYTINE.

IQS REALIZES FIXED RENTAL PRICE NOT

FEASIBLE UNDER LONG TERM LEASE AND THEREFORE LEASE COULD PROVIDE FOR

INITIAL FIXED RENTAL WITH A SLIDING SCALE ADJUSTIENT THEREAFTER.

B. ... SINCE PROMISSORY NOTE FOR 180,600 PESOS WOULD BE UNSECURED

WITH FINAL PAYMENT NOT DUE UNTIL JAN 1972 HQS PREFERS TOTAL PAYMENT FOR

LIMITED AT OUTSET RATHER THAN WAIT 64 YEARS.

C. REALIZING LIMOUSINE'S POSSIBLE FINANCIAL STRAIN MAKE SUCH

• LARGE PAYMENT INITIALLY, HQS. WILLING ACCEPT LOVER SALE PRICE AT

REASONABLE DISCOUNT RATE. IF LIMOUSINE UNABLE LIQUIDATE WITH ONE

LUMP SUN PAYMENT AT ENHANCED REDUCED PRICE WILL ACCEPT COMBINATION

PAYMENT AT REDUCED RATE WITH GREATER PORTION PAYABLE AT SETTLENENT AND

REMAINDER AS OFFSET AGAINST MONTHLY RENTAL AGREENEN.

2.

HQS FEELS ABOVE PROVISOS IMPORTANT AVOID SUBSEQUENT IMPLICA-

TIONS AND POSSIBLE FUTURE TOTAL LOSS EVENT LINITED SUBSEQUENTLY PASSES

ORMISESTATE'S

FROM LIMOUSINE'S, CONTROL.

',?.

or ((1p5)

c"/wits).

Elicio?

---

## Page 100

TOTAL COIRS

FRau

cLassIe leu Me

3U SECRET

ERSON/UHIT NOTIPILO

іт.

ion oran

A FROQUET ION PROMISITES

118:

CLorreo DEs ruoso.

TRIO

RPAN

1314 de

BEGRET 1119992

DIR CITF. MEXI 1898

LIFMOTY LIMOUSINE

11 Ds 64841 069

REFH DIR 69691*

I. MANGO AZTECA NAS AGREED IO FXGURE OF 180,5CA AS LAND VALUE

FOR LOAN PIRPOSES: VIEN EXCESSIVE BUILDING COSES FOR PREVIOUSLY

LAVIED STRUCTIRE, LIMOUSINE HAS NOU DECIDSO OU THREE STORY BLDG:

PROLIND FLOOR TO BE BRANCH RANK OR OTHER SUITABLE COMMERCIAL

STRICTURE, FIRST FLOOR THO ECONONY APARTMEHTS AID TOP FLOOR

SINGLE APARTMENT.

DO COULD REGIN RAZING AS SDON AS AGREEMENT WITH KUBARK

0 PLETED:: WOULD THEN NEED ORTAIN KUBARK AID BANK APPROVAL OF

FLOG PLANS ESTATION CAN MAXF WHATEVER CHANGES NEEDED AND AWAIT

ISSUANCE NECESSARY GOUT PERMITS. ESTIMATES ABOUT ? MONTHS

CMPLETION TIME WITH BLOG READY TO OSCUPY ABOUT I JULY.

30 LIMOUSINE AGREES TO BEGIN PAYMENT 132, 602 THREE YEARS AFTER

BUTLDING COMPLETION, AT RATE OF 1,309 PESOS PER MONTH OVER THREE

•AND HALF FAR PERIOD. •

NO IF ABOVE SATISFACTORY TO HA, STATION WILL DRAW UP AGREEMENT

WITH LIMOUSINE ALONG THESE LINES, INCLUDING AGREEMENT ON ?30,D,

ÃSOS MONTILY RENT FOR TOP APARTMENT FOR LIEMPTY-S OR SUCH OTHER

SECRET

---

## Page 101

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 41069 PAGE 2

ERAS ME ENTE.

THIS SAME NOMINAL RENT L -6&NOW

BYTES, ON CONCLUSION OF AGRESMENT, AND ASCETPT EUIDENCE OF

RAVY LOAN WILL RETURN TO LIMOUSINE STATENENTS OF TRUST FOR DES-

TRUCT ION. •

SECRET

sain in

PLS ..

Limitedrovide

INFO

property

complate. silos parce of

LImoUsINe.

SECRET

---

## Page 102

14-00000

MESSAGE FURT

UNIT .

111/1.

X4506

DATE,

& Decenher 1904

CINDEX

O NO INDEX

EULE IN CS ILI NO. 10-5 - 73/S

"Mexico City

Alect:

140548

ROUTING

FROM DiRECTOR

CON. WH 8

WO 0L4, BPA, P62, VR, FILE

MEXi

INFO,

CITE DIR

68601

LIEMPTY

REFEKENCE: NEXT 1799 (1N 355055*

FLS

1. ME DO NOC PLAN MEET GENOUSINE AROVIDE INPORNATION

REQUESTED DIR GIZURE AFTER NEGOTINTING WITH ME

WHORE CONCLUDING

AGREENENT.

DECEMBER.

2. ANTENNA ROTATOR REQUESTED IS REING POUCHED WEEK 7

END. OF MESSAGE

OL/RECRA

LIMITED

(phone)

(rhone)

NIl Commert:

a!mousine in states this neck and prehanty crinare reached if Ildes

wished discuss sale

OF LISANTY property in person.

Seation

indicates

ILEMPTY would he solit

at land value only as houre value not pertinent

since house to be rasca.

Asked whother

mened koorter would arrive

station by Christmas.

«z Headhunitors

pproves in princinle selling taurthe papperty to

LIVOUSTNE.

Advise

criplete

sales

Far hides

PrinT TO

conrluding agreenent with 11100601:

approximate rental cost for LIMiTil marceona

determine

ne least

and

advise.

NEÓRI

AL/WHD

HERBETT

RELEASING DEPICES

6: 3:10 1

Lower. 11d

RESRODUCTION LY OTHER THAN THELSUING CEACE IS PROHISITED.

OFFICEM

Copy Nis

---

## Page 103

oxo.

ET

DATE i

Bustos videlairad

S3/1

• INDEX

:k507

DO NO INDEX

1 Diceaber 196% CAL IN CS MU NO

ISCO CITY

MESSAGE FORM

SECRST

50 6 74/1

ROM DIRECTOR

CONT

WH. 8

50

ROUTING 1/

'7

3 Dac Gott

032

ROUTINE

Sio cEi

LICITTY LUID

IST: 1EXI 1752 (IN 31737)*.

NO OL 4, BPA, P93, VP, FILE

iNFO.

clinterte gra

68139

EDES APPROVES IN PRINCILE SELLING LITED PROFORTY TO LISCUSINS.

ASSUMS

TETS IS AT TOIAL EX VALUE INCLUDING LAND AID ECUSS, IOR PARA TWO FEF, WE APPROVE

AIS DErS AG PATENT OF LAD VILE FOR TITOS LENIS. ASSURE IS VILI PAX HOUSE

VALUE IRIDIAISLY. ADVISE. COMPISTE SALES PRICE FOE LIDOS CONCUARENCE PRIOR TO

COFCLUDING AGRADENT WITH LEDUSINE.

ALSO ATTORT IO DETERINE AT LOAST

APPSOXIATE RENTAL, COST FOR LINITED APATHET IT ALVISE.

OF lassies

C/NA/SS

WiS/LOG

va/rI

OL/ RECD

IN COMINT

*iccording to Offles of Logisties Irioration the original purchase

Prica 1n 1955 was 512,000 end tho Station made $3,500 of repairs

Ird renovation.

KAUFIAN

c/A2D

COORDIRATIME OPPICERS

SECTER

tomatoes and

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER T

HAN THE ISSUING DFFICE IS PROMISITED.

AUTHEMTICATINA

OFFICIN

Copy No

---

## Page 104

• SSIFIED MESSAOL

31

•SECRET E

Anico CiTt

C.my

ros. Unis

WH 2

10

- VRI TILE OLI, BRA, P62

ECRET 0318332

19 CITE MEXI 1.799

13Đc St 1 35 305

•AMED TATE ACTION:

¡EMPTY LIMITED LIMOUSINE

LimiTEs PRaiRTy to Limousias

EFS A MEXT 1762 (A 31137)

B DIR 69139 °

1• LIMOUSINE IN POPRIME HIS WEEM: PROBABLY COULD BE REACHED

THROUGH MATHEN P. DINGHLEY IF MA DESIRES PERSONAL DISCUSSION. AS

STATED REF GO FIRST FIGURES GIVEN REPRESENT LAND. VALUE WHICH ONLY ONE

VORIN CONSIDERING FOR URPOSE THIS SALE. HOUSE VALUE NOT PERTINENT

SINCE HOUSE TO BE RAZED. OWING ACE OF HOUSE, DOUBTFUL SALE OF MATERIALS

SILL EVEN COVER DEMOLITION COSTS. APARTMENT RENTAL NOT AVAILABLE

UNTIL LIMOUSINE RETURN AND DECISION MADE AS TO SIZE AND CONFIGURATION

Of APT.

2. IF ANTENNA ROTATOR REQUESTED IN H9MA-246J8 NOT ALREADY OBTAINED,

ANO AN OTHER SEFVICEABLE ROTATOR AVAILABLE FROM SUPPLUS, PLEASE

NOSTITUTE, REQUEST ADVISE IF CAN BE SHIPPED TO BE HERE

„BEFORE CHRISTMAS.

SACRET

•SECRET

Limited

---

## Page 105

14-00000

Laes

DAR

TO

.

Duosos Vide La: 25a

vin

ago?

O No HOn?

3 December 196 QuD0mu10

NOTICO CHIY

DANTOR

WH g

MESSACE FORM

50

SECRST

506.7622

NO OL 4, BPA, PS3, VA, FILE

15XI

WITTY INATH

857: 15XI 1762 (IN 31T37)»

Osa 0e

ROUTING/.

:.S

3 DEc 6'0

ROUTIN

032

88139

¡DES APPROVES IN FREM IPLE SELLITO LIJITO PARTETTY TO LOSUSIE. ASSUNE

THIS IS AT TOXAL DUX VALLE INCLUDINO LAID AND IOUSE. FER PARA TWO FAY, HE APPROVE

192003: 18 HILL PAY HOUSE

VALLS DISHINISIT. ADTIDO, COLTUTE SALES PIICE FOR IDES CONCURRENCE PRIOR TU

CONCLUDILE ADROLARNT WITH LINDUSINS. ALSO ALTINES TO DETUTONE AT IRAST

NETROXTOVITE RETANI COSI FOR LUARTEO APARTARTE AND ALYISE.

SIM OR BESSAOR

WH/200

*According to carica of Loulatics tararsaltos the 0r181za1 purchaso

¡PICe 15 1955 NaS 312,000 Bad EDE S5a:129 Eado $3,500 Of ropolTo

and resovation.

PERRIBATIER PRISTER

30332

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER SW

AN THE ISSUING OAFICE IS PROMIBITEO

TIGATINO

Copy No

---

## Page 106

TOTAL COPIES

MATy

CLASSI: iNO MESSAGE

30 SECRET

PÁRSON UHIT NOTIFITO

REFSCOUGTION PROMIBITEO

tHON

mexics ciTY

ACTION

INO VA, FILE, PG 2

MOVANCE COCY

TIME

BLOTTED

S: ÷0 5 T: 2723476

DIR CITE MEXI 1762.

LIEMPTY

28 NO 641N31737

REF DIR 6550596986)

CiN

MEXIA 1397, 29 OCT 64

I. STATION

HAS TVO BANK EVALLATIONS OF PROPERTY, ONE 8Y

PINCO VACIONAL DE MEXICO OSTAINED BY SCATLING IN PSEUDO AND OTHER

BY PANCO AZIFCA AT LIMOUSINE BEHEST. PESPECTIVE EVALUATIONS

175: LOT 195,266 AND 1891,599 PESOS; TOTAL TAX VALUE 255,575

AN 219,202 PF.SOS WICH OF COURSE INCLIDES PRESENT HOUSE. DISCREPANGIES

PETUEEN TWO APPRAISALS NOT SUFFICIENT WORRY ABOUT SINCE FOR BUILDING

MIRROSES ONLY LAND VALUE PERTINEVT, AND DIFFERENCE HERE LESS THAN

SaRA PESOS, SO BELIFUR CAN DISREGARD OTHER FIGURES.

?. LIMOLISINE HAS ALSO HAD GLANS MADE FOR A STORY BUILDING

OV PROPERTY, GROUND FL0O9 COMMERCIAL AND THREE FLOORS OF APTS,

DIE OF UNICH WOULD GUARANTEE RESERVE FOR LIMITED AND ALTER AS STATION

WISHES. SMALLER SUILDING NOT DESHED WORTHWHILE INVESTMENT.

MST STUDY SHOWS BUILDING COULD PROBABLY BE PUT UP FOR ASOUT

535, DRA PESOS, OF WHICH LIMOUSIVE COULD BOPROW AROUT 133, 900

FROM DAVK. JUDGES RUILDING COULD RE FINISHED WITHIN 5 MONTHS.

OF BEGINUING DEMOLITION PRESENT STRUCTURE. LIMOUSINE WOULD PUT UP

SECRET

---

## Page 107

CLASSIFIED MESSÄGE

SECRET.

IN_ 31732 PAGE 2

FROM DUN TUNDS NEATSUSS NETDED TO SUOOLEMEVT BANY LOAV. IN ORDER

PIN S DU MUST TO TA CI CAN TO PS OF T

LAND VALUS FOR STARS. MEANUHILE ALTHO WILL REQUIRE ANOTYER APPRAISAL

FROM BANK MAKING LAOT, THIS VILL PROPARLY NOT DIPSER MUCH. FOR

PIRFOSES GENERAL AGRSEMENT RELIEVE AUTRAGE OF AROVE INO APPRAISAL

FIGURES FOR LOT CAN SS TAKEN FOR PLANING PURPOSES.

3 LOUSINE NOT YET AWARE OF INDEPENDENT SUAL, SUT WILL INFORM

HIM IN ORDER ARRIVE AT FIRM FIGURE FOR NEGOTIATION IF NO APPROVES IN

MR INCIOLE.

DO NOTE THIS SOLUTION IDFAL FOR STATION, SINCE RETURUS PROFIT•

DE ALMOST 5000 DOLLARS ON ORIGINAL INVESTMENI AND RELIEVES YUBARK.

DE ONUS OWNING AND ADMINISTERING PROPERTY: AS WELL AS GIVING

LIOUSINE FAVORASLE CHANCE PROFIT WITHOUT ANY COST TO KUSARX.

5. WHILE RENT US LIMITED APARTMENT NOT SET, XUBARY CAN COUNT

ON GETTING FAIR SCARF. DO NOT BELIEVE RENT FIGURE SIGNIFICANT

FICTOR IN DECISION.

...R F

SECRET

---

## Page 108

UNG: C. Bustos-Videla¿ax

MESSAGE

SECRE

ROUTING

LI NO INDEX

23. Octobor-1964_Q HU IN CStNO

50-6-74/5

1O:

• Mexico

FROM.

соря

DIRECTOR

WN 8

INTO SE?,

16 2.

I MTEM TO BRANCH

Ора по

ST/OA, VP, FILE

B06510 392

SIG CEN

тор

Y

R

1

MEXI

INCO,

CITE DIR

LI EXPTY

58997

REF: MEXI 1307 (IN 96996)*

1. HOQS AGREES IN PRINCIPLE THAT LIMITED BLDG SHOULD BE RIZED

RATHER THAN REPATED, YOUR PARA THREE PROPOSAL OF COSAGERCIAL

INCONS

NETTING VENTURE HOULD IMLUEDIAIELY MAKE THIS ASPECT OF LIEMPTY A

PROPRIETARY WITH ATTENDANT SPECIAL ADIN HANDLING. UNLESS THERS IRS

OVERRIDING SECURITY AND OPS CONSIDERATIONS NE PREFER NOT DO THIS.

HONEVER IF FINAL DECISION IS TO BUILD STORE LYD TWO APARTMENTS, HORS

SUGGESTS LIMITED BE MADE SEPARATE (FROSS LIEUFTY) PROPRIETARY SUPPORT

PROJ IN ORDER REDUCE CONFUSION OF TWO TYPES ACCOUNTING UNDER ONE PROJ.

2. IDQS STRONGLY BELIEVES PREFERABLE SOLUTION WOULD BE MERSLY

REBUILD HOUSE ON SAME LAND FOR OCCUPANCY BASELOUSE KEEPERS. THIS TILL

NOT INVOLVE PROPRIETARY. ALSO WOULD BE MORE SECURE FROS STANDPOINT

SOV COUNTERMEASURES.

3. ALTERNATE SOLUTION IS SELL LIMITED PROPERTY TO LINOUSINS AT

FAIR MARKET VALUE DETERMINED BY INDEPENDENT APPRAISAL WITH UNDERSTLIDING

HE BUILD AN APARTIENT ON SECOND FLOOR WHICH HS NILL LET US ON LONG TERN

LEASE.

R

R

Y

EXAX CONTINUED.

COOB:

TING ORDICER

SECRET

GROUP I

stucos tram,

mungrasing ou

кілемі-ста

10d 13890

MAN BE CORNE

18170

:391

---

## Page 109

ona, C. Bustos-Vidola: Jah

UNsT

DATE :

MESSAGE. FORM

SECRET

ROUTING

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONt

PEO: NO DOIX

Nov 13 7 214n 64

Pago a

Now 16 1L 35 PM?Q

INFO

CT DiR

56.997

4. BLUEPRINTS FOR ANY BUILDING TO BE CONSTRUCTED WITH KUBARX

FUNDS AUST RECEIVE DOS APPROVAL, THIS APPROVAL AND PROJ AMENDIENT

MUST BE OBTAINED PRIOR TO ANY COMMITUENT FUNDS. ESTIMATED TIME POR

TOTAL APPROVAL AFTER RECEIPT PLANS IS HOPEFULLY TWO MONTHS. SEE HOUSE

SHOULD NOT BE RAZED UNTIL APPROVAL BRANTED.

WH Comment:

END OF MESSAGE

*LIMITED photo basehouse which we purchased 1955 18 deterior-

ating and Station suggests raze building and rebuild with

storo on lst floor and two apts upstairo at cost of 353.000.

WH/BF

SR/O/W

CI/OPS

DDP/PG

WH/FI/

C/WH/ ST

19H/LOg1

WE/COPS Hood >

B

whood

RAFORD W. HERBERT

AC/WYD

ATLEADINO

OPPICIA

REPRODUCILA!

GORRPINATIME SIPIERRI

SECRET

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OPI

GROUP I

OHIBITED.

AUTHINTICATINA

OPPIGGA

_ _Egoy Na

---

## Page 110

is com tower.

AEPRODUCTION PFOMIBITCO

ISSIFIES HESSAGE

COP

49

SECRET

•180

namen CiNn

ICT LON

ADVANCE: COPY

VR, FILE, 3R7, CI, GIOR, GIaZ, TSOn, EI

SECRET 202340Z

200cr Sc: 93995

DIR CITE MEXI 1307

LIEMPTY REDCOAT I.

1. LIMITED HOUSE RUILT 1916 HAS BEEN STEADILY DETERIORATING.

RECENTLY PART OF DECERATIVE CORNICE CONCEALING CAMERARCAVITY CRUMBLED.

EXTERIOR BADLY IN NEED OF REPAIRS..

2. GIVEH APPARENT RECENT SOV INTEREST IN PROBABLE PHOTO COVERAGA

OF ENS, IMMINENCE OF APPEARANCE WARREN COMMISSION ANNEXES AND ABOVE

CONSIDERATION, NEXI ASKED LIMOUSINE AND HIS ARCHITECT TO INSPECT HOUSE

WITH VIEW TO VARIOUS SOLUTIONS. FOLLOWING FACTS EMERGED:

A: PROPERTY PURCHASED 1955 FOR 145, 000 PESOS, COMPRISING 215

SRUARE NETERS.

R. SIMILAR PROPERTY IN NEIGHBORHOOD NOW GOING FOR 1500 TO 2800

PESOS PER YETER, GIVING LIMITED CONSERVATIVE MARKET VALUE OF 325,030%

PESOS.

C. LOCATION IDEAL FOR CONSTRUCTION OF SHALL STORE WITH TWO

MPARTISNIS AROVE, PROBABLE RENT FOR STORE BETWEEN 4203 AND 5000

PESOS AND TWO BEDRUON APARTMENT ABOUT 1S53 PESOS.

D. BASED ON AVERAGE CONSTRUCTION COSTSEFOR COMMERCIAL PROPERTY

(ACUT 1030 FESOS METERS, DEDUCTING SPACE REQUIRED FOR GARAGE FOR

SECRET

---

## Page 111

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 96996 PAGE 2

EACH OF TWO APAPTHENLS AND ADDING TOPSIDE CONSTRUCTIOM FOR LAUNDRY AND

GRIDS QUARTERS, ABOUT 600 SQUARE METERS IF CONSTRUCTION NEEDED.

INCLUDING DEMOLITION PRESENT BUILDING (ABOUT 18,030 PESOS) LIMOUSINE

BELTEVES COULD DO JOB FOR ABOUT 58,000 DOLLARS. THIS WOLLD BE AT

COST PLUS 10 PERCENT AND NOT INCLUDING OVERTIME.

E.. USING OWN WORKMEN L BELIEVES CAN DO JOB TO OUR SPECIFICATIONS

WITHIN A MONTHS OF STARZ.

F. IF LIMOUSINE WERE DOING THIS HIMSELF AS COMMERCIAL PROPOSITION,

HE WOULD BUY LOTS ON EITHER SIDE OF LIMITED AND PUT UP SUPERMARKET

OPERAT IO@.

3. TIMING NO RIGHT FOR SUCH MOVE, ARE AND CONDITIOE OF BUTLDING

MILITATES AGAINST MERE SUPERFICIAL REPAIR. WITY ALMOST CERTAIN GROSS

ANNUAL INCOME OF ABQUT 8,030 DOLLARS PER YEAR INCLUDING RENT FROM

LIEMPTYS, SEEMS LIKE FAVORABLE PROPOSITION.

4. STATION VOULD LIKE IN PRINCIPLE OKAY TO PROCEED. ON RECEIPT

WOULD DIRECT LIMOUSINE SEGIN DEMOLITION AND HAVE ARCHITECT DRAW UP

PLANS. WOULD HQ NEED OKAY PLANS BEFORE BEGINNING CONSTRUCTIONZ

IF SO, HOW LONG WOULD APPROVAL LIXELY TAKE?

5. IF APPROVED REQUEST HA INCREASE ODA OR LIEMPTY BY ABOUT 55,008

TO ALLOW FOR MISCELLANEOUS ATTENDANT COSTS PLUS SOME FLEXIBILITY VIS

A VIS LI!CUSINE ESTIMATE.

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 112

TO: "RI/ AMALYSIS SECTION

FROM:

(heaveners Nerd

Charlotte Kohaina

CASE TITLE

12/70/200TN

2. COUNTRY AND NUMBER

Mexico 10

3. COMMENTS: (Include briel deroristion of life or prolece)

S, CATEGORY AND NUMBER

STONT

Motion fire Did

CASE FILE REVERSI

DATE. '

1F Or 59

COMPONENT:

BULLDING

nat"

ACTION REQUESTTO

CPEN FILE

AS INDICATER

AVEND FILE

AS. IND: CArED

CLOSE FILE

RESTRICT FILE

TO (0E51).";.

PERMANENT CHARGEOU!.

TO IDESNL..

PREPARE FILE FOLDERS

AND SEND TO REQUESTER

technira: baseboun

COPY

len 1rd 1 1411 12i07

the monkey carrera?

FOR RI USE ONLY

1 F.::

2. i

INFORMATION

ENDORSEMENT

THIS REQUEST SATISFIES RECOROS REQUIREMENTS.

RECLESI APPROVEO

APPROVAL

RT/ANALYSIS

RONALD O. MOSOFEN

OR CHIEF. A

RI CASE TITLE NUMBER

EFFECIIVE DATE

812 soircas

NS

SFOSE

(33)

---

## Page 113

TO: 81,/ ANALYSIS SECTION

(Requentere, More)

FBOAL

Churlotte Zehrung

1.: CASE TITLE

LEMPTY/LIMI'ED

COUNTRY AND NUMBER

Maxico 50

CATEGORY AND NUMBER,

Operatimal 6-746

COMMENTS: (Includo bused descripion of lile or projare

SECREY

There Fitted to

CASE FILE REQUEST

COMPONENT

BUILDING

barton

DATE

17 Dod 58

ROOM NO.

2120

ACTION REQUESTED

OPEN FILE

àS INDiCATED.

AMEND FILE

AS INDICATED.

CLOSE FILE

RESTRICT FILE

TO. (DESP): WH/III/Mexico

PERMANENT CHARGEOUT

TO (DESX). WH/III/Mexico

PREPARE FILE FOLDERS

AND SEND TO REQUESTER.

TELEPMONE

2758

technical hasehouse

Plod

LIMITED weed to fall under the LIPSTICK Projed

have PI 91le nimber 50-h=?519.

FOR RI USE ONLY.

1.210.

МБКЕ

ENDORSEMENT

THIS REQUEST SATISFIES RECORDS REQUIREMENTS

EFFECTIVE DATE

Liplin

Cise 1958

812

056

PREVIOUS

EDITIONI

REQUEST APPROVED

50

6

APPROYAL

ROMALD D. NORDEEN

FOR CHIEF. &T

RI CASE TITLE NUMBER

It/ 5

SECRET

(19)

---

