-10219-10285 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

HX-11

8) February 1961

MEMORANDUM FO! The Cepartmaat of State
i wirector, Cilice of Sccurity

ATTENTION: ide. Emery 3. Adams

SUBJECT: MARTIN, William
: .. » MITCKELL, Beran

i
i
4
{
i

1, Reference fe mada to your letter of 31 Cutchor 1962 captioned
MARTIN, Willan and MITCHELL, Surtan", end to pour gecont lettar
af 36 Jasucry $462, eaptioasd as absve, your file reference SY:MMU.

@ Tisak you for your letter of 16 Catober 8866, which enclosed
@ capy af the news article royarding Gubjecte, which eppoared in tho
Mew Yerk Dally Nows Sanday idition of 1) Saytember 1.60, Wo regret
that through an overnight your letter was not tamedtately acknowledsed
and es indication provided to ycu of the status of the ettion uedertas on
tu gespense to your queries. ta tha interim, bewever, the uocescary
section and file checks have boon comptciod, and the, reasiss ore reported
batew,

| 3. With reforence te the news article itself, and your requoct for

| vertfisation cf the information reported Iu the press, 6 check of our

{ records failed te develop any information portetning to the allegation
that Bublecte Joined the Comanmist Party ie February 19%¢, and tbat

| tele payty sames were “Martin WLALAMS" eng “Mitel SERNCH",
reagectively, 18 is suggested that you may wish to rafer thie question

‘ees to tho Federal Serean of investigation, av wo note that neithor of the
above referoncas indicates that a copy was forwarded to the Bereax,

| nov that a eopsrate ingairy was being made of that office.

4. With refovence to cor request for information concerainag the
identity of the refegea organization which ellogediy obtainsd 2 Bulletin
containing this information, appropriate taquiries have sen made by
Our represcutatives in London. The latter advised in late December 1560



thet this onws item was discussed with who
advised that they were usable to develop any information either to refute
ev te support the etery ao carried ta the press, However,  _ indicated
that thoy consider It probable that the actual euurce was a certain Joseph
HYISLER,. born 7 Jaty LJ) in Ceechvekvahia, who ty believed to have
been used at times a8 & Coniact by ifr. Hoary R. MAULE, the chief
London corresponeant of The New Yerk Times”, HEILLKR on occasion
hae latd claim to having sources behind the Iron Curtain, but io of
the opiniva that. ke. probably cbtaine bis information froin « Czech
Refugee organization, not further identified by name. They atso indl-
cated that the Britieh concider it highly tmprobable that there {a acy
trath in thie particular story.

S$. Ovr records indicate that the above Joseph HilSLER, who
fiect arrived in the United Kingéom in 193%, aod since then has engazed
fa vartess oxport-impesrt traovactions, tay already be known to your
Department, Ha first came to attention iu September 1:57 whon our
Peprosentatives In London were requested to obtain traces on
HEISLER for Mz, Ctlaten Grea, USES representative in London, whe
bad received en unsolicited approsch (rom aJ, tevaard HUTTON,
identiiied by ae Juseph RHISLER, Cur records indicate that a
report ef Mi zoeo's contacts with HItiLER was ferwarded to USLA
Heedquartere {4 late 1957, and thot certain documents rotating to
HEISLER's import-eaport oporations were forwarded by the sconemic
Uelenss Oftice representatives in London to yours Departinent et about
the ome time, The filos show that a full copy af the pert, ouge
geoting that J, Bernard MUTTON be identical with Juceph HASLER
accompanied the report te USLA Neadquaricrs. A copy uf taese traces
ia provided los your convenicace, a attachimout Rorewith,

6. We note that tn a repty to prepared by cur representa-
tives in response to the above mentioned traces un MEISLER, mention
fo made of a 1566 vies application filed by KEIBLER, presumably for
entry inte the United States, although the actual reference is net availe
able. Mis requested that any additioaal information which may be
roflected in the indices of the Department of State with reference to
Joueps HEISLER's vies applicatton and ua bie contacte with Comintern
oF Soviet Intelligence citiciala or urganizatione, bs provided te this
Agency as expeditiously ae possible,

7. The foregoing informations is restricted for leteraal use of tho



“| Attackmonts

= SECRET i)

addresses ccly, end mey aot be disseminated cutetde ths addresese
offiee without the prior approval of the originator,

POR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS:

FT
a
od
i

1

i

WILLIAM &, HARVEY !

As sisted

a6 w/ait) Federal Barcan of Investigation i
ce wfatt: National Security Agency : i]
Atta: Mx. 6, Weoley Reyaolds 4

DD/P/F1/D/APotocki:mem

Distribution: i
Orig & 1 bare ~ Addressee . '
LE w/att + 100-6-124/3
A w/att = 201-282337-
A w/att - 201-282338
2 w/l att - OS/SRS
1 w/att ~ 201-207250 (Joseph HEISLER)
1 w/att ~ chrono 7

OELA 32666

Based on: OELW 18040
2s OELA 21634



ATTACHMENT

“L think there te no dvebt from the particolars aod description

} gives in. paragraph 4 of that Lotter thatthe man in whom you are cur-
i veatly fatercated ie Joseph iiZ1SLEX, born 7 July 1511, 6 Czccheslor
H vatlen national who firot arrived ia thr U.%, on 20 Juns 2:35,

“HEISLEAR was edacated in Chrast until 1930, when he want to
Berlin asd studied medicine. iu 1933 he roturmed to Caechoolovaals
and became 6 journslist. According to his own stateme=t made te the
British Police in Geptomber 1-41, HZISLAR became interested in Come
_ muantom in Berlin ta 1930 and joined the Communiat Party in 1932, Ho 4

wrote articles for a communist periodical called “Red test’ and was |
asacclated with the organization “Red Help, In 1933 he tronsisrred ts
the Caech Communiet Party and wrote for ‘Kude Peavo.” is April }434
he went to hicecow and obtained employment on the staff of the “Moscow
Evening News.”

“According to 6 uscaliy reliable euurce HEISLER attended the
Leste School in Moscow in sbuut 1537. ie adzaitted visiting the Leain|
Seboot but maintained that he bad never atteadad aa intensive coures of
pelitical lostruction, He aloo claimed that in 1935 he bad been invited
to become a citinen of the U.5.5.8., but ho had refused, and that by
3935 he wan ac longer & mambcr of the Cocomaniet Party.

“after bic arrival is the U.K. NEISLER joined the Thomas Mana
group of Crech jourpalists. (This was one of the emigre groupe formed {
under the Caech Refugee Trust Fuad), Ho wea reliably reported to bo a
Comownist af teai-tiane. mployed by the Ceech Ministry”
for Foreign Affaire {rem absut Aagust 3941 until February b74d a9 a
radio comraontetor and translator. He is known to hava aaid that he Hy
vecelved a celary {rom the Caoch Embasoy “fer propaganda.” Alter |
the war be made several visits to Cacchoclovahias on the Last occasion es ie
bo returned ta this country on 21 February 1443, Although he claims j
te have resigned from Czech Government employment at the time of the de
Ceomorantst coup d'etat, retiable searces show that he was, at least until
Ceteber 1.45, a contact of br. ZEMAH, who at that time was Secoad {
Seerctary in the Cuech Embsacy and the repretentative there of ths
Caech Minietry of the Interior, H&ISLER was otrongly suspected of Sricciet
acting. as aa agent for ZEMAN. He was aloo reported to be posing ac a :
Socialist but in reality ts bo a Comcmunict, i

ORreny
vavitl!



unit

US vii iut

Ly December 1947 HEISLER applied to the Home Office for por-
tnlecion te publiah a weekly newapsper in the Czech language for the
Czech communities in thie country, to establish a iiterary ard masie
agency through which foreiga Uterature could be placed in this country
and (rom time to time te publica books, mainly for export. He wae
grented par miscion to work a0 © free-lance journalist.

‘At tha ond of 1947 HEISLER applied for a Certificate of Katurals-
sation, bet thie was refused ta March 1945,

“In March 1949 HEISLER started a firm named the Hidex Com-
pany, which clotmed te be the sule agent fer a firm of Spanish cotten
mpeolacturors. This firm doce act appear to have bad a good repsta-
tien, im 1952 be wes connected with an Inport and export firm named
AU-Waye Garvice, aed in 1752 with Metex Company and The Metes
Goupeny idenited. Stace that time ho hac continuovsly come te notice
fa connection with aymo dealing. Theve is, however, no evidence to
connect him with any political activity, Recout information suggests
that he may bo in come finaanctal difficultios.

° “HEIBLER mersicd first oa 1@ Cetober 1940 Elesa nse KOHL BECKOVA,
who died on 7 Kegtessber 1460. They had two British bora childrea.

On 18 Besomber 1990 he married a Britich subject named Poakl GULD,

by whom bo bas ons chilé, The KEIGLERO lived at various addrocsus in
Lendon uatil aboct 1954, cince when thay have lived in Sussex, their
prevent addrese-te. 33 Gerald Road, Worthing,”



FID/S#S indices checked 10 Feb 61 - Negotive results
Dr. Jakob Y. PISCHER

HAYANKO Hanako 9 Common-lew Japanese wife
Rheinland German Kitchen,

CSREES AR ARR BEN iN ERA PO ENN IGE URTV SEL SAE EC RRP PER SE CECE ee arms

