14-0000 o
104-10134-10009| Rez} RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

J eee" y
FO |
fy pre et SS, C/FIOB/SRS i cicada

M. BD, Stevens

GS; PEREZ, Ralph Document Number : (B43 me 10 55

eee for FOIA Review on MAR 1977

1, Vith reference to Ralph PEREZ who isi menttoned in
paragraph 2 of the attached memorandum.on Richird S$. CAIN ~
dated 9 Cctober 1967, he would appear in all probcbility to be
Subject who in the spring of 1963 became of interest to DCS (OG/C)
for routine exploitation as a source of foreign positive intelligence.

2. On 28 June 1963, Security advised DCS regarding an un-
substantiated report that Subject subscribed to the. Communist
publication "VOZ de MEXICO" and was a Communist leader in
1944, He reportedly was u leader of the Communist nucleud in
the Chicago Mexican colony. According to a notation dated 6/26/63,
this information was‘ considered resolved in Subject’s favor through

: 1959 B,1, conducted on Subject's sister," DCS wag also informed
ithat Subject's sister (Maria Guadalupe GALLARDO, with various
akas) was reported by reliable informants to have been a member
of the Mexican Commission of the Communist Party in 1946 and a
card carrying Communist Party member in 1951. During an inter~
viewin 1954, she admitted attending meetings of the Communist
Party and a Communist Party school during the mid-1930's in Chicago
but denied having attended Communist Party affairs subsequent to 1945,
or #8 ever having been a rnember of the Communist Party.

3. With reference to Guillermo ESCOBAR, whom Subject
(PEREZ) is said to have given Horace SPEED I} £199 499, aaa
lead, he may or may not be Guillermo (ESCOBAR) MARTINEZ, aka:
Guillermo (MARTINEZ) ESCOBAR, | #i44 260, a Msxican citizen who
in October 1956 was(i fasued an operational approve! for use as a mem->
ber of the L ICK Team in Mexico under[ | This
iRahedie cancelled by * H/I in a memorandum dated 9 November
4957. There is no derogatory informations in ESCCBAR's file and no
information on him since 1957.

chow
ar Encuded faa eilomatic|
. wasrading ans
PGRET. | susie



: SECRET

4. ‘The only other Guillermo ESCOBAR on whom there is
information in Security Indices is an individual by that name. listed
in a 5 December 1949 report on The Fourth (TROTSKYITE) Inter-
national. This Guillermo ESCOBAR, Secretary General of the
Federacion de Obreras de Imprenta de Chile, was listed as one of
the personalities in the Partido Cbrero Revolucianaria, an ‘affiliated
Chilean organization.

M. UG, Stevens
Attachment: memo dtd 9 Oct 67

MDS/cer

SECRET

