# 104-10534-10044

## Page 1

1104-10534-10044

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

uda

which An Loccord. Em 1e3

1: 1904

DB MEISO 16385

3 JazUEr,, 1964

pacedial do fore

293 k,

deD 8906 1: 60: 9005

ATTENITONS •

They stri

REFERENCE

16.20 Men Desa. 06 A0203

#Techaical Analyald of lotter and savalope

DB CASS 44361

Ws/2 Hawo dated 13 Docember 1963

Carito St too tore

l. In respoaze to refermeul requat, en origtaal aryauritten. i

lettar end envelope didresund to the Antrican imbassy, Basicholm, a:

vore emined in order to laterine the origia of the lotter and the lara.

nationality Of the uriter.

";::

+12

Cule kra"

2. The following conalunionn nure drass concoralag the letter

and envelopos

The typewriter la question is equipped sita an obsolete.

istyld of Gerner-nade type which, according to our raferences, was

Isttad on a number of typouriters nade in Germany during the 1920s

and early 1930s. The possibla makes vould be stomar, torjedo,

Mercedes, Rheinnetall, Uraniu, Orgay fortuna, Continental, Kappel,

froms, Triumph, Kerz and posibly sow others. Of these nutes,

the Torpedo, Mercades, Thainnutall and Trium vare probably the

most nicely distributed. "

Hosen Ca

1. The nacine in quaniion is equipped with a black and red

ribbon. The keytoard 1n very inabibly Swedish, as shown by two

*...

strike-overs: unsut a for hyphin ind "" for "a". These

ibsracters are adjacent on the utantard Suedlsh keykoard, but not

t:..

1, 6: "Strendvagon" (where the dotn sutall have bees placed over the

vecond "a").: This night be nither' i simple overnight or an attempt

to concesl the writer's tumlllarity uith the correct spelling.

"C.. The paper of the lutter 1s of the international standard

(DIN) s1ze "A4" which 1s almost universally used in Soden. Tre

lIner-textured stationery tams to be rather comon in Swden.

Ino tro maller pleces of blunk papor natch the letter payer vith

reayect to wlath, thickneno, color, texture and lock-trough, and

wore probably cut fron another thnet of the sane type.

Tha envelope

matchos apecimens of Sundian envulojas taken from DB/S-Postal.

Intelligence Liles.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

DB Hsio 46585 - Paga 2 :

do: Ins lotter war posted fram the Stockholm Ban post office,

which is located Is the central ralluly teminal in Stockholn.

All m11 deposited 1s atreat mil basis in this aros or 10 tbe post

mu; oifyco would bo procesued through tali station. ' Ma""

1.4

it'

e.. The cancellation cachut on the envalope 1n Identical In

all respecta (fornat, porwatt, nunber tyle and length of killer

the postage 1a cortect for siredish Interial ball and the

postaga stamp 18 of curtant 11020-

A possible Isragularity 15 the time leg between the 1nteraal

deto of the lotter, the dite of tha posturi and the date of receit

In the American Embresy. Tha total tino from the internal date of

the letter to the time of reculpt is uight days, the tim between

the date of posting and the date of ruceipt 1s nore then turee days.

Inis transit time of nore than three days for intra-city mail appears

Irregulat then compared with the energe transit time of only two-

three days for arrival hatren stoutboln sna the united states.

The text of the lettur ammunt arma coumonts beccuss & number

of pocullarities vere noted - tutau fram nure spelling of typing errors -

uhich vecm to indicato a Swediah triter, the following words represent

eitoer Suedish spelling or modification: "reserv", "etablished", "nurded",

"Kruntjar" Other examples of sunlih gramar and syntas would be:

"wet" (as rost tenses,

'"In foulet" (Brudlih fox but not spelling),

2o Was bry

artiale), "shosla" (rather tam moula"),

"'(without indofinita wilcial" 'outsmugled" (suedich past

"FBI, USA" (without definite

particuple coral, ond waale that wita" (pure Suedish form).

Ho Anothar sigulficant detall to the sane given, "Ryo Icany twan".

but never in combination with "yu", "Pyo" Is & Japanese spelling- In

the nome given it is not tnown wanther tha Chinese or Westera presen-

tetion 1o used, in other vords, whather "Ryo" or "Yuan" is asant to be

the surnane.

Among Chinose syllahlen which could ba reprasanted by the

Japeasay "Ryo" are Liao, Ilang and lung. Cl there Lung (IC:7893) sad

In citber case,

"Ryo" 1s hardly

a 5a1s by vital a real Chineny would lawntity hinsell.

So In summery, nod basod on this abora Information, It ila concluded

that the lotter was tranmitted via narrl suadisa postal charnols. Te

letter 11 probably a "crunk luttar", mout likely uritten by a Stude,

using a inadial keyboard typertitut und dredish stationery.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DE Merso $6585 - Page 3

6. For further information coucernlig tie typewriter and paper

sanyas, end the suedisa style of Indus usage, contact ii". Jan

Beck an x2009. For further Infomaation on the spelling of the

ostensible uritery nerve, you way contest li. Gerald Wortia oil x2608.

For further Information' regurator the Postal aspecto of this case,

plense contect Mr. Robart E. Haulia on 22513.

To The original letter and entrolopo are boing returped horewith.

ALBIN R- PRECIONAS

Chief, TSD/DB

Attachreats (1)

As stated

Distribution:

OxLE & 1 - Addresses

1 - TSD/GARB/ASER

2 - TSD/DB/3

1 - DB files

1 - PI chrono

1 - Case 4361

TSD/DB/5-PI/RHBanks/x2303/ery

SECRET.

---

