# 104-10333-10009

## Page 1

1104-10333-1000

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

3

Mr. Langelle said he had no contact with or instructions from

Counterintelligence Chief James Angleton either before or during his tour of

duty regarding any Moscow related operations.

Asked about the U-2 flights, Mr. Langelle said he had no knowledge of the U-2

development or flights until after he had returned from Moscow.

Combs e: \ langint.wpd

File 4.0:5 (Langelle)

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CENTER for the STUDY of INTELLIGENCE

24 October 1995

Ms. Ann L. Goodpasture

4719-B Skillman Avenue

Dallas, Texas 75206

Dear Ms. Goodpasture:

This is to confirm our two recent phone conversations

Assassination Records Review Board.

The Review Board requests the opportunity to interview

you as part of its mandate to identify information relevant

to President Kennedy's assassination that may be released

to the public.

The Board members were appointed by

President Clinton under authorization of the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992.

Mr. Jeremy Gunn, the Board's General Counsel, will contact

you to make arrangements for the interview.

You are authorized

to discuss with Board members or staff information pertaining

to the assassination, Lee Harvey Oswald's activities in Mexico

City, and any US Government investigations into either.

The Board members and staff have been cleared for

classified information up to Top Secret,

including

compartmented information.

They have had complete

access to

all pertinent CIA files.

Mr. Gunn has an SCI clearance from

violate your secrecy agreement.

This letter has been prepared in consultation with

CIA's Office of General Counsel. If you have any questions

concerning this letter, please call me on 703-351-2802.

Sincerely,

The Pereira,

John F. Pereira

Chief, Historical Review Group

Central Intelligence Agency

• Washington, D.C. 20505 • (703) 351-2698 Fax (703) 243-8343

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SSiNATION

SA

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

VIEW

March 25, 1996

Mr. John Horton

Sotterly #234

Hollywood, Maryland 20636

Dear Mr. Horton:

I am writing to you on behalf of the Assassination Records Review Board, an

independent Federal Agency established pursuant to the President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994). The Review

Board, whose members are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, is

charged with collecting records related to the assassination of President Kennedy. The

Review Board is not seeking to reach any conclusions regarding the assassination, but is

primarily concerned with identifying, clarifying, locating, and making available

assassination records. I am enclosing some explanatory material about the Review

Board and its mandate.

As part of our mandate, we have been reviewing records that originated with the

Central Intelligence Agency. Several of the records relate to the investigation of Lee

Harvey Oswald's trip to Mexico City and his alleged association with the Fair Play for

Cuba Committee and anti-Castro organizations. We have some questions about these

subjects as well as a related event that involved James Angleton traveling to Mexico

City in 1971 to acquire Win Scott's papers. We hope that you may be able to assist us in

determining the existence of various assassination records connected with the events

described above.

We would like to request a meeting to discuss the aforementioned issues. We invite

you to come to our offices in Washington, but we would be more than willing to meet

you at your home or another convenient location. We will be contacting you in the near

future to arrange for a convenient time for you.

Sincerely yours,

Enclosures

CC:

Mr. John Pereira

BOARD MEMBERs: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff - Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SSIN.

ATRON

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

EVIEW

BOA

March 25, 1996

Mr. Robert Shaw

12851 E. Speedway Boulevard

Tucson, Arizona 85748)

Dear Mr. Shaw:

I am writing to you on behalf of the Assassination Records Review Board, an

independent federal Agency established pursuant to the President John f. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994). The

Review Board, whose members are appointed by the President and confirmed by the

Senate, is charged with collecting records related to the assassination of President

Kennedy. The Review Board is not seeking to reach any conclusions regarding the

assassination, but is primarily concerned with identifying, clarifying, locating, and

making available assassination records. I am enclosing some explanatory material

about the Review Board and its mandate.

As part of our mandate, we have been reviewing records that originated with the

Central Intelligence Agency. Several of these records relate to the investigation of Lee

Harvey Oswald's trip to Mexico City and his alleged association with the Fair Play for

Cuba Committee and anti-Castro organizations. In addition, we have reviewed your

testimony to the House Select Committee on Assassinations and have concluded that

you may be able to answer some questions related to certain Cuban matters of the case.

You also may be able to assist us in determining the existence of various assassination

records connected with the events described above.

We would like to request a preliminary telephone interview to discuss the

aforementioned issues. We will be contacting you in the near future to arrange for a

convenient time for you.

Sincerely yours,

General Counsel and Associate Director for Research & Analysis

Enclosures

CC:

Mr. John Pereira

BOARD MeMBeRs: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell

---

## Page 5

13-00000

ASSASSIN

REVIEW

10N

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

BOARD

July 10, 1996

Mis. Jane Roman

9707 Old Georgetown Road

Stockbridge, MA 01262)

Dear Ms. Roman:

I am writing to you on behalf of the Assassination Records Review Board, an

independent Federal Agency established pursuant to the President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994): The Review

Board, whose members are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, is

charged with collecting records related to the assassination of President Kennedy. The

Review Board is not seeking to reach any conclusions regarding the assassination, but is

primarily concerned with identifying, clarifying, locating, and making available

assassination records. I am enclosing some explanatory material about the Review

Board and its mandate.

As part of our mandate, we have been reviewing records that originated with the

Central Intelligence Agency. Several of these records relate to the investigation of Lee

Harvey Oswald's trip to Mexico City and his alleged association with the Fair Play for

Cuba Committee and anti-Castro organizations. We believe that you may be able to

assist us in determining the existence of various assassination records connected with

these events.

We would like to request a meeting to discuss the aforementioned issues. We invite

you to come to our offices in Washington, but we would be more than willing to meet

you at your home or another convenient location. Because your telephone number is

not listed, we would like you to contact us in the near future to arrange for a convenient

BoARD MEMBERs: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Ms. Jane Roman

1...

July 10, 1996

Page 2

time for you. For your information, we also have sent a copy of this letter to your other

address.

Sincerely yours

Enclosures

CC:

Mr. John Pereira

Historical Review Group

Central Intelligence Agency

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Tel: 413-298-4629:

P. 0. Box 893}

stockbridge, mA)

012623

Jule 20,1996

Mr. T. Jeremy Given.;

assassination Record's Revie Board

washerigton, 1.c.

Dear Mr. Gunn:

I am. sorry that you had such

difficulty locating une

iand it's a

wonder That your letter ever did reach

me since it is a weird and worderfut

combination combination of two of me

addresses: I have never recessed the

other Copy of

the letter which I assum

was sent to

13211 rewark. 55,

л.с.

The above address (Stock bridge) is

my summer address and I will le

here until. the middle of October.

as of april 30 I sord

The newark

st house.

My permanent legal

address is nov:

9707 Old Georgetown Road. Apt 12t

Bethesda,

mo. 20814

llel: 301-896-00991

heither.

the listing is in

sume a enlis to war

unlisted but

Roman Immy deceased hüsband.). The

I.С.

number would refer you to the

I would, of courre

be more Than

happy to

aisist gore in any way

(oves)

_treat.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

possible and recognige that it is your

assigued mission

cover any leads avaulab!s

to you, I do,

howeves, feel that I can

add absolutely mothing of value to the

nformation already available to you.

would be extremely difficult and

expensive for me to

This point.

I also tee in ti

washerg tou at

would be a shar

жет with

se here.

and frien 1i

One more than happy to get rogether

upon my return to Bethesda in October

if you still feel it would le necessary.

I understand that your Board was

essablished to pur to res

once and for

all The rumous of plots, conspiracies, ete

as sparked by the driver Stove movie,

"JfK

and various other financially lucrative

books and articles.

What a blessue Thar

would the.

as far as I am concerned the

Warren Commission die a Therough

and

accurate job.

I assume that you are owore that I

was interviewed last wintes by an editor prom

the op-ed page of the Washingson Past-

against my better jidgement. The article

pubsisted was sensationalist, scursilous, tenden.

rious, words taken our of contert, implication

of ciA duplicity and Involvement. I was

so upses that I wrote a letter to the Poss

right off, but it was snuch too long to

send and I couldn't seem to white a

08/07198

---

## Page 9

13-00000

short enough one. Of the advice of colleaques,

I checked un with the Public Affairs Officer

ar Cir. He was very soothing and said that

anyone who threw me would reclife what

happened, and the whole thing would soon

sunk into oblivion which it corn did. The

editor uas accompanied by a man who usas

writing a bock on the Harves, Oswed Wierman

with me a copy of his previous book,

and Jfk" which i didn't read

, except for

the cover which said the auther whose name,

I cout recall) had been an adviser to Orrier

Stove on the 5 fK movie.

Good luck with your task.

sincerely yours,

Jane Roman

CC: Mr. John Pereira

Historical Reviews to agency

entral Intelligence

5. 08/07/98

---

## Page 10

13-00000

STATION EC

AS

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

REVIEW

BOARD

June 3, 1997

Mr. Russell A. Langelle

Dear Mr. Langelle:

I am writing you on behalf of the Assassination Records Review Board, an independent

Federal Agency established pursuant to the President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994). The Review Board, whose

members are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, is charged with

the responsibility of collecting records and information related to the assassination of

President Kennedy. Review Board members and staff are required by law to possess

Top Secret, SCI clearances. The Review Board is not seeking to reach any conclusions

regarding the assassination, but is primarily concerned with identifying, clarifying,

locating, and making available assassination records. I am enclosing some explanatory

material about the Review Board and its mandate.

As Michelle Combs mentioned in her telephone call last Tuesday, we would like very

much to discuss your work experiences in Moscow from 1957-1959 with you. We

believe that your past in-depth knowledge of the Moscow Embassy and its procedures

may assist the ARRB in our attempts to clarify the historical record in this area.

Before talking with you, we would like to make certain that you would feel free to

discuss fully all relevant aspects of your work in Moscow. To the extent that you think

that discussion of your work might possibly involve classified or sensitive matters, we

would like to resolve such concerns in a way that would provide you with whatever

assurance that you need that you would not be improperly divulging classified

information. If you feel discussing this subject with the Review Board would constitute

disclosure of any information that is still classified, we will be happy to initiate a

discussion between you and the appropriate officials to address any concerns you may

- have.

One of the members of our staff, Michelle Combs, will be calling to arrange a mutually

agreeable time and place for an interview. Should you wish to contact us in response to

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell

---

## Page 11

13-00000

Mr. Russell A. Langelle

June 3, 1997

Page 2

this letter, please call for either Michelle Combs (a Senior Analyst on the State and CIA

Records Team) or myself. We look forward to talking with you again.

Sincerely,

General Counsel and

Associate Director for Research & Analysis

Enclosures

---

## Page 12

13-00000

Administrative - Internal Use Only

9/11/97

Note to:

(Mark Chang

CE/EXO

Subject: ARRB interview of Russell A. Langelle

Attached is a draft of Michelle Combs' memorandum of

her interview of Langelle.

This memo is for the

Assassination Records Review Board's files and will be made

available to the public. Ms. Combs is willing to consider

alterations in response to problems the Agency has with the

draft, however, she indicated that the information contained

in the memo is

in the public domain.

If you have any

questions please contact me via E-mail or on 31825 secure.

Please respond as

soon as possible.

Ms Combs would liketo

address any questions we have before she forwards the draft

to Jeremy Gunn, General Counsel, ARRB, which she hopes to do

this week.

Thanks,

BarrY

Harre

JFK Project Officer

CSI/HRG

Administrative - Internal Use Only

---

## Page 13

13-00000

..

SECRET

CL BY:(611637)

CL REASON: Section 1.5 C

DECL ON: X1

DRV FRM: HUM 4-82

TO:

Thomas T. TREDEL ® DO

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson

OFFICE:

CSI/HRG

DATE:

09/25/97 08:30:28 AM

SUBJECT: Re: ARRB INTERVIEW OF RUSSELL LANGELLE

CL BY: 714549)

CL REASON: 1.5(c)

DECL ON: X1

DRV FROM: HUM 4-82

Re your questions:

George Payne Winters, Jr. retired overt and has been released in the JFK collection.

The HTLINGUAL program was first acknowledged during the Rockefeller Commission Investigation in 1975. The crypt was released by

the Church Committee in 1976.

Thanks for your help on this issue

Barry Harrelson (x31825)

Original Text of Thomas T. TREDELL

Original Text of Thomas T. TREDELL

Barry-

Russia House has looked at Michelle Combs' memo on her interview of Russell Langelle.

The only areas of concern they had, which they said they could not comment on knowledgeably, are:

• The mention of George Payne Winters, Jr. They do not know if he is overt.

• The mention of the HTLINGUAL program in the last paragraph of page two. They are not familiar with this program and don't

know if this program is overt/has been publicly acknowledged by the Agency.

If you could check into these two matters or tell me where to get the answers, I would appreciate it. Thanks.

CC:

@ DO,

NORDLANDER @ DO

Sent on 25 September 1997 at 08:30:28 AM

a 00, Kurt S. ZERRICK @ DO, Paul S. BARCHEK® DO. Hoyt D.

SECRET

---

## Page 14

13-00000

SECRET

CL BY:

CL REASON: Section 1.5

DECL ON:

DRY FRM:

TO:

J. Barry Harrelson

FROM:

(Thomas T. TREDELT @ DO

OFFICE:

DATE:

09/29197 12:10:33 PM

SUBJECT: 2 Re: ARRB Interview of Langelle

CL BY:714549/

CL REASON: 1.5(c)

DECL ON: X1

DRV FROM: HUM 4-82

Are there any other concerns re Michelle Combs' memo? She will be at IP on Wed. and is willing to discuss any problems.

Barry

Thanks for checking. No other concerns.

CC:

Eileen Wukitch € 00

Sent on 29 September 1997 at 12:10:33 PM

SECRET

---

## Page 15

13-00000

Descriptive Name: Contact Letter to Parangosky (U-2)

Descriptive Type: Letter

Subject:

Future ARRB Interview

Attachments:

Blind Copy:

ARRB Info Package and "Skunk Works" excerpt

Marwell, Gunn, Wray, Horne

Carbon Copy:

Date Completed:

12:00:00 AM

Reference:

Document Number: 4.20.3

Author:

DHORNE

Typist:

DHORNE

CIA HARTS GP.SCRON TO

DECLAS

CANCAND/OR

RELEASE OF URUSAORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

---

## Page 16

13-00000

SKUNK WORKS

A Personal Memoir of My Years at Lockheed

BEN R. RICH AND LEO JANOS

BOSTON

LITTLE, BROWN AND COMPANY

NEW YORK

TORONTO

LONDON

---

## Page 17

13-00000

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

SEP 1 5 1994

COPY.

COPYRIGHT OFFICE

1

Copyright © 1994 by Ben R. Rich

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in

any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including

information storage and retrieval systems, except by a

reviewer who may quote brief passages in a review.

First Edition

TL565

• R53

1994

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

Rich, Ben R.

Skunk Works: a personal memoir of my years at Lockheed / Ben R. Rich and Leo

Janos. - Ist ed.

P.

cIn.

Includes index.

ISBN 0-316-74330-5

1. Lockheed Advanced Development Company - History. 2. Rich, Ben R. -

Career in aeronautics.

3. Aeronautics - Research — United States - History. I.

Janos, Leo. I. Title.

M. Title: Skunk Works.

TL565.R53

1994

338.7'623746 0973 - dc20

94-8732

10 9

8

7 6

5

432

MV-PA

Published simultaneously in Canada

by Little, Brown & Company (Canada) Limited

Printed in the United States of America

---

## Page 18

13-00000

KS

or

se

aS

re

ot

le

s.'

n

r

r

t

1

1

t

OVERFLYING RUSSIA

153

The next thing we tried was something called a Salisbury

screen, a metallic grid applied to the airplane's undercarriage

in the hope of deflecting incoming radar beams, but it worked

only at some frequencies and altitudes and not at others.

Kelly thought it was more practical to try special iron fer-

rite paints that would absorb

a radar ping rather than

bounce it back to the sender. The paints were moderately ef-

fective but inhibited heat dissipation through the airframe's

outer skin and we experienced overheating engine problems.

But the paint lowered the radar cross section by one order of

magnitude, so we decided to give it a try. We called these

specially painted airplanes "dirty birds" and shipped the first

one out for flight testing in April 1957. Our test pilot, Bob

Sieker, took the U-2 up to over seventy thousand feet and

suddenly radioed that he was experiencing rapid airframe

heat buildup. Moments later his engine blew out and the face-

plate blew off Bob's oxygen mask as his pressure suit in-

stantly inflated. The U-2 dove straight down and crashed. It

took us three days to locate the wreckage and Bob's body. An

autopsy revealed that above seventy thousand feet he had

suffered acute hypoxia and lost consciousness in only ten

seconds. The culprit that killed him was a defective faceplate

clasp that cost fifty cents.

The CIA was so desperate to buy time for these Soviet over-

flights that Bissell got Kelly to sequester four of our test flight

engineers and have them write a bogus flight manual for a U-2

twice as heavy as ours and with a maximum altitude of only

fifty thousand feet that carried only scientific weather gear in

its bay. The manual included phony instrument panel photos

with altered markings for speed, altitude, and load factor

limits. Four copies were produced and then artificially aged

with grease, coffee stains, and cigarette burns. How or if the

agency got them into Soviet hands only Mr. B knew, and he

never told.

---

## Page 19

13-00000

SEP 11: 97

02: 20PM

P.1

FAX TRANSMISSION

ARRB

202-724-0088

FAX: 202-7240457

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEOLASSIFICATION AND/OR

LEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

THIS DOCUMENT:

To:

Fax #:

From:

Subject:

Barry Harrelson

703-613-3060

Michelle Combs

Langelle Interview

Date:

Pages:

Septerber 11, 1997

4, including this cover sheet.

COMMENTS:

Barry,

This is my working draft. Jeremy has not yet seen it. If any of your folks have major problems

with something in this, let me know and I will consider alterations. Langelle himself is identified

as CIA in a document released in 1993 which I showed to him at the interview.

Michelle

---

## Page 20

13-00000

SSINATION

REC

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

EVIEW

BOARD

December 4, 1996

Ms. Bertha Dasenburg

4450 South Park Avenue, #1503

Chevy Chase, MD 20815

Dear Ms. Dasenburg:

I am writing you on behalf of the Assassination Records Review Board, an independent

Federal Agency established pursuant to the President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994). The Review Board, whose

members are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, is charged with

the responsibility of collecting records and information related to the assassination of

President Kennedy. Review Board members and staff are required by law to possess

Top Secret, SCI clearances. The Review Board is not seeking to reach any conclusions

regarding the assassination, but is primarily concerned with identifying, clarifying,

locating, and making available assassination records. I am enclosing some explanatory

material about the Review Board and its mandate.

It is our understanding that you handled, organized, and worked with former

Counterintelligence Chief James J. Angleton's files for over thirty years and that you

had access to his safes and private vault. We would like very much to discuss this

subject with you, and believe that your past in-depth knowledge of Mr. Angleton's files

and records may assist the ARRB in our attempts to clarify the historical record in this

area. I am taking the liberty of forwarding a copy of this letter to Mr. John Pereira, of

the Historical Review Group, Center for the Study of Intelligence, Central Intelligence

Agency, Washington, D.C., 20505. To the extent that you feel discussing this subject

with the Review Board would constitute disclosure of any information that is still

classified, we would be happy to initiate a discussion between you and the appropriate

officials at the CIA to address any concerns you may have.

Sometime in the near future a member of the Review Board staff will be calling you to

establish a mutually agreeable time for an interview to discuss certain aspects of the CI

Staff and its record keeping. Should you wish to call us first in response to this letter,

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell

---

## Page 21

13-00000

Ms. Bertha Dasenburg

December 4, 1996

Page 2

please ask for either Michelle Combs (a Senior Analyst on the CIA Records Team) or

myself. We look forward to talking with you.

Sincerely,

T. Jeremy G

Genetal Counsel and

Associate Director for Research & Analysis

Enclosures

cc. John Pereira

---

## Page 22

13-00000

FYI

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

3007

REVIEW

BOARD

October 29, 1996

Mr. John Parangosky

3302 Woodburn Village Drive

Annandale, Virginia 22003.

Dear Mr. Parangosky:

I am writing you on behalf of the Assassination Records Review Board, an independent

Federal Agency established pursuant to the President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994). The Review Board, whose

members are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, is charged with

the responsibility of collecting records and information related to the assassination of

President Kennedy. Review Board members and staff are required by law to possess

Top Secret, SCI clearances. The Review Board is not seeking to reach any conclusions

regarding the assassination, but is primarily concerned with identifying, clarifying,

locating, and making available assassination records. I am enclosing some explanatory

material about the Review Board and its mandate.

Also enclosed is an excerpt from the book Skunk Works, by Ben Rich and Leo Janos,

which refers to Lockheed's preparation of four sets of falsified U-2 technical manuals at

the direction of Richard Bissell of the CIA. Co-author Leo Janos has identified you to

the Review Board as having formerly been Richard Bissell's direct assistant for U-2

program matters, and has suggested that you may be a source of further information in

this area of inquiry. We would like very much to discuss this subject with you, and

believe that your experiences and recollections may assist ARRB in our attempts to

clarify the historicul record in this area. I am taking the liberty of forwarding a copy of

this letter to Mr. John Pereira, of the Historical Review Group, Center for the Study of

Intelligence, Central Intelligence Agency, Washington, D.C., 20505. To the extent that

you feel discussing this subject with the Review Board would constitute disclosure of

any information that is still classified, we would be happy to initiate a discussion

between you and the appropriate officials at the CIA to address any concerns you may

have.

Because we are not aware of your telephone number, we request that you either reply

to us in writing, or call us at (202) 724-0088 to discuss a time and place where we could

meet with you to discuss certain aspects of the U-2 program; if it is inconvenient for you

BOARD MEMBERs: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell

---

## Page 23

13-0000g

Mr. John Parangosky

October 29, 1996

Page 2

to meet with us at the Review Board's offices, we would be happy to visit you in a

location that is convenient for you. Should you wish to call us in response to this letter,

please ask for either Mr. Doug Horne (a Senior Analyst on the Military Records Team),

or Dr. Michelle Combs (a Senior Analyst on the CIA Records Team). We look forward

to hearing from you, and to speaking with you about the U-2 program.

Sin

General Counsel al

Associate Director for Research & Analysis

Enclosures

---

## Page 24

13-00000

WINATION

LEW

BOA

Yange fles

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

1. Basis feles

April 21, 1997

FYL

Mr. John McVickar

(2160 Mountain Road

{Stowe, VT 05672

Dear Mr. McVickar:

I am writing you on behalf of the Assassination Records Review Board, an independent

Federal agency established pursuant to the President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994). The Review Board, whose

members were appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, is charged with

the responsibility of collecting records and information related to the assassination of

President Kennedy. The Review Board members and staff are required by law to

possess Top Secret and SCI clearances. The Review Board is not seeking to reach any

conclusions regarding the assassination, but is primarily concerned with identifying,

clarifying, locating, and making available information about the assassination. I am

enclosing some explanatory material about the Review Board and its mandate.

We would like very much to discuss your work experiences in Moscow from 1959-1961

with you, particularly as it pertained to the USSR residènce of Lee Harvey Oswald. We

have reviewed the transcripts of your testimony to the Warren Commission and to the

House Select Committee on Assassinations. We believe that your knowledge of Oswald

and the Moscow Embassy may assist the ARRB in our attempts to clarify the historical

record in this area.

One of the members of our staff, Dr. Michelle Combs, will be calling to arrange a

mutually agreeable time and place for an interview. We anticipate being in the Boston

area in the near future and would easily be able to visit with you fin Stowe if that would

be most convenient for you.

Before talking with you, we would like to make certain that you would feel free to

discuss fully all relevant aspects of your work in Moscow. To the extent that you think

that discussion of your work might possibly involve classified or sensitive matters, we

would like to resolve such concerns in a way that would provide you with whatever

assurance that you need that you would not be improperly divulging classified

information. In the course of our interviews with other persons, we have arranged with

BOARD MEMBERs: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell

---

## Page 25

13-00000

Mr. John McVickar

April 21, 1997

Page 2

the appropriate officials at State, CIA, DoD, FBI, and other agencies to obtain waivers to

allow persons to speak to us. Our principal liaison with the State Department, for

example, is Nina Noring, IM/FPC/HDR, Room B234, Department of State, 2201 C

Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20520, (202) 647-8799. If you believe you have any

information that might touch upon the equities of the CIA, DoD, the FBI or any other

agency, you should feel free to ask us to arrange for an initial contact with them or you

may wish to contact them yourself.

Please do not hesitate to call (collect) for either Dr. Combs or myself. We look forward

to speaking with you.

General Counsel and

Associate Director for Research & Analysis

Enclosures

---

## Page 26

13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

18 October

1995

NOTE FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: JFK Board/Ann Goodpasture

1. At the request of Jeremy Gunn, General Counsel of

the Assassination Records Review Board, I called retired CIA

employee Ann I. Goodpasture today. Her phone no. is 214-

6 369-4198; address is 4719-B Skillman Ave., Dallas, Texas|

752062

The reason

for the call was to advise her that Gunn

planned to contact her to arrange an interview about the

Kennedy assassination. Fred Wickham, DO, had agreed that I

make the call.

I explained to Ms. Goodpasture the role of the

Board and the purpose of the interview, and offered to

provide any assistance.

She said that she would be willing

to be interviewed, but did not recall the details of events

around the time of the assassination. She asked that she

receive an official statement from CIA releasing

her from

her secrecy agreement for purposes of the interview, which I

agreed to obtain.

3. Ms. Goodpasture said that she had plans to visit

Washington in November and could be available for the

interview then.

She will call me when her plans are firm.

4. I relayed the above to Gunn, who said that he would

call Goodpasture sometime in the next two days.

John Pereira

Dist:

File

Harrelson

Wickham

FOR

OFFICIAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 27

13-00000

Memorandum

September 9, 1997

To:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

By:

File (Interviews)

Michelle Combs

Michelle

Subject:

Interview with Russell A. Langelle

On August 21, 1997, Russell A. Langelle, senior CLA officer in Moscow from 1957 to

1959 was interviewed by Michelle Combs. The interview was not recorded.

• Mr. Langelle provided an overview of life in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow from

1957-1959. He outlined his duties and activities as the embassy security officer

and as the senior CIA officer in Moscow during that time period.

• Mr. Langelle noted that he had no contact with Lee Harvey Oswald in Moscow

and did not remember ever hearing the name until after the assassination of

President Kennedy.

• In discussing his duties in Moscow, Mr. Langelle said that he had been sent to

- Moscow specifically to meet with GRU Lieutenant Colonel Pyotr Popov,

recruited in Vienna in 1952, who was then working as an agent-in-place within

the GRU, the Soviet military intelligence service. Langelle explained that

meeting Popov in the Soviet capital was his number one priority and that he was

given instructions not to draw attention to himself in any way which might

endanger Popov.

Mr. Langelle noted that his other responsibilities for CIA included finding,

checking, and locating potential dead drops, and the general assessment of the

various Soviet officials he met as potential recruitment targets. He emphasized

that his activities on behalf of the CIA were very passive and that none of these

activities was allowed to overshadow the importance of meeting Popov safely.

He made no attempts to recruit any Soviets for fear of calling attention to himself

as a CIA officer and thus endangering Popov.

When asked about other CIA officers in the embassy, Mr. Langelle said that he

had a loose supervisory role over the other officers in the embassy in that he

knew each of them (they did not necessarily know each other as CIA officers)

and generally what they were doing. However, Langelle emphasized that he did

not know the specifics of anyone's work but his own and that there was no

"station" which functioned as any kind of a unit. The CIA officers in Moscow

---

## Page 28

13-00000

2

functioned as individuals, acting on instructions from Headquarters, with no

coordination of their activities in-country.

Mr. Langelle thought that it was likely that George Payne Winters, Jr. had his

own communications channel with Headquarters and that possibly the other

officers did too. He stated that he was never instructed to pass a message from

Headquarters to any other officer and that no officer ever asked him to pass any

information on to Headquarters.

When asked about CIA files, Mr. Langelle noted that the few CIA files that

existed in Moscow were kept in one drawer of his safe and that only he had

access to them. No one else had the combination. He said that to the best of his

recollection, the files consisted mainly of communications materials such as one-

time-pads, a few records of dead drop locations, and communications protocol.

Mr. Langelle explained that tourists and defectors were never part of his

responsibilities in Moscow either as the embassy security officer or as a CLA

officer. He said that he had no contact with any of the American defectors. Mr.

Langelle explained that any potential counterintelligence risk from an American

defector would not have been viewed as important enough to expose Langelle's

presence as a CIA officer.

Asked about the CIA's legal traveller program, Mr. Langelle said that he knew

about the existence of the program but that he had no contact with any of its

participants. He thought it possible that George Payne Winters, Jr. had some

contact or role in the program because he had many contacts in the Russian

community. Mr. Langelle emphasized that he had no specific knowledge

whether Winters did have a role in the legal traveller program.

Mr. Langelle thought that it was possible that the military attaches would have

met with any defector with a military background, but that he did not know if

any of the attaches had met with any of the defectors. He also thought it was

possible that an attache could have taken Oswald to the upper (restricted) floors

for counseling but again, he did not have any specific knowledge of such an

occasion.

When asked about the HTLINGUAL program, Mr. Langelle said that he knew

about the mail opening program. He noted that he was the only person in the

embassy who knew that American non-diplomatic pouch mail was seen by both

the Soviets, through regular KGB screening, and the CIA through HTLINGUAL.

---

