# 104-10114-10158

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10114-10158

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO

:Chief/Research Branch/sRs/oS

FROM : M. D. Stevens

DATE: 30 Docenber 1953

SUBJECT: OSWALD CASE

1. Reference is made to the attached copy of an incoming

state Department telegram dated 19 December 1963, in connection ulth

the Rarvey Lee OSHAID Case (see Lab A) • lls telogran conceras a Mr.

and NYS. DEMOEREISCHIDT tho appear to bave lived 1n Dallas, Texas,

but on 2 June 1963 went to Halti and have not since roturned to the

United States.

2. Acoording to this telegram, the DEMORRHiSCHILDIS vEre

interviewed at Port au Prince on 19 December 1963 at which time they

stated that they left Dallas on 19 April (1963) for Hev York and

OSWALD on their May violt to Dallas.

3. The above referred to incoming telegran makes reference to

prior messages of valch I have not received copies and 1t 1B Impossible

to determine what connection the DEMOHRitSCHILDIs bave with the OSHAID

Case. The telegram refers to the fact that Mrs. DEMOHRENSCHUDT believed

she "saw gun at apertment" In Oakleaf, a Dallas suburb. (The few York

Times of 20 December 1963, in referring to the arrest of Russell W. MCLARRY

of Dallas on charges of baring threatened on 21 Hovember 1963 that he was

going to kill Presidelt Kennedy the next day, stated that MaLARRY Lives 1n

an apartment house

"In the Oakellf! section of Dallas, a sprawling area

Ke oke the

Wbere OSHAID Lived". (See paragraph 3 of Tab A). It appears from Information

In the telegran that the DEMORiNSCHILDIs were wall acquainted with the

OSWALDS. Mrs. DEMOHRENSCHILDT took MirE. OSWALD In ber car from Fort Worth

to Dallas for dental treatnent a week or two after they firet met OSWALD.

4. According to Mr. and Mrs. DEMOHRENSCHILDI, they were

Interested in the OSWAIDs solely in helping them as "unfortunate people".

They named the following persont who might have additional Information

regarding the OSWALDs: Samuel/BALLON, an investment benker 1n Dallas,

to whom OSWALD applied for a 105, and Theo MilLER and his Russian wife.

(See Tab A, paragraphs 5 and 6)d

Security. Indices contain no Information

On BALLEN Or MILIER. BALLEN was mentioned at length in a Washington Post

article on 1 December 1963 as a petroleum economist who intervieved OSWALD

for a job.

di.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECHEI

• 2.

5. It appesTs that Bir. DEMOHRENSCHNDT 12 221 frO-

1942 was security aleapproved for OSS employment. DIMOBRINSCHLLDT

was bara In RUBELa In 19111 vas educated in Palena and served 10

the Polish Aruys and Iater attended the Untveralty of trusels there

he gradusted in 1938, Shartly thereafter he ears to the valted

stetes and took out his first saturalization pepors. He seems to

here sade blo home 1a Dallas, Fexro.

In 2942 be was considered & llers sympethiter and possible Intelligence

agent; he has syart a good deal of time In Madoo Mbere ho tas suspected

of possibly subveraive astivities; and at the Univeralty of Texas,

where be enralled in 1914, he vas sedd to bave comtet tendencies.

He uns the subject of a lengthy OlI Investigation 11 1942 and of

Investigitlos by the FBI Pross 1941 throngt 2948.

Mateh time the stoched any at de treet to o/ tabeg that

office by security (see Tab B).

8. In DetOber 1962 DENDERENSCHNDI, In DAllas, Texas,

wrote the luder Secretary of State in Hashington, D. C., sud offared

to submit a travelogue vulch be had prepered fallowing a tory unich

be and his ulfe bad made through Mardeo and Obntral America. Arcarding

tO DIMORINSCHUNVI, he was about to sem 1t to England and Francs

and had bean told by his Irlends is Furope that they udght send ble

typescript to the U.S, Solo, "shere there to a great demand for travelogues

and adventure stories".

03

: On 2) April 1903 Security furnished Mir. BEARE OS DOD

i thermafaxed copy of the 1958 00/C almaty referred to above

ALLETI, a DODS Case Officer, had requested an expedite check of

Gearge DENDHRENSCHILUI fOT rEasORs unknona to security.

10. A POTHEr WiFE Of GeOrge DEDiRENSCHLDI, Mrs. Phyllis

Bernard YARROW, 13583, as a reference.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

•3.

11. Ho thorough review bas been made of the DISSOHRENSCHILDIS"

files by s€•

M. D. STEVENS

Attachments:

as stated

---

