(104-10164-10098)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ae

a

10709/08 SECRET oe ~ FRPL > 62s 3 ore ee
INTEL

INFO! FILE, VR, DDO=4, C/PCS, Clady EPSVEGH2, IIDe i i
> SIA, SIA/FLr SIA/ICe 63778) GOTD'SN |

wecewnewecerecce: coemewenenssmecseseces |

ACTIBNE LAe13 (287)
IPs ‘ep

10,

wé
~ 78 0306200 PAGE 001 OF 002 IN_0366248
z a TOR: 2617902 FES 78 ‘cre 7

ecerederececes:

ae eernene: aeowwecces i

SECRET 281715Z FEB 78 INTEL
CITE CARACAS 35621

| TOs DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMIG,.
| WNINTEL INTEL KMSTONE
i

SUPDATA: SOURCE: WKDIET/AKDIET@S DIRECTLY AS DESCRIBED IN
: CARACAS 35583. OD OBJECTIVES Jele
FILE DEFERRED, CL BY 013533 :
FILED] 2817152 AKKKK.

(is BUSIL
» gf t+ If

vee DR eo

. ete Gecres
erage



FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF nes INFORMATION suatct To
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF

REPORT. . :
STATE/INR SCS/MC(DIa) CIA/NMCC SS/10 FRE . ee cit
(SY/TAG) SWS NSA TREAS SDO (HARD COPIES Yor NSC/S ‘
NFAC WHSJTRM SECUR ODA ODST OSI D/OMS OCR).. 2

Ser Othe nom oer! ommrane teen © 1.0. 11427 Semana
11 tapensie te Determee Dev of Aunemont Devenir.

THIS 1SAN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELUIGENCE Q : i
EFORT-CCESS- SECRET WNINTELONOPORNGNOCONVRRC Ts
HH u eee HEE
j ST i
eeeeeeee : : CaO
| COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/CUBA nati

“SUBJECT? DETERIORATING PHYSICAL CONDITION OF CUBAN EXiLE

LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH (DOs 27 FEBRUARY 1978): | :
SOURCES

4. THE PHYSICAL CONDITION OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER
«ORLANDO BOSCH 78 NOT CRITICAL: ANG CUBAN EXILE LEADERS a8

WELL AS THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT BELIEVE THAT WIS GEATH

oe 19 NEAR. IN A Las? ERPORT TO GET BOSCH TO SUBMIT To MEDTCAL
SREATMENT AND TO WITHORAH FROM HI8 HUNGER STRIKE. CUBAN

geen Z@ LEADERS ARE TRYING TO GET FORMER VENEZUELAN PRESTOENT
MULO BE TAN COURT TO Visit BOSH AND REASON WITH
“WIM, “BOSCH ADMIRED BETANCOURI FOR HIG STAUNCH ANTZ-CUBAN
GOVERNMENT STAND AND CUEAN ZEKE LEADERS BELIEVE HE ta tHE ONLY

PHYBICTAN REZNALOO HART TN GANG.
HS 26 2N CLOBE CONTACT WITH DOVERNMENS OFFICIALS. Has
AOVESED THE AUTHORITigg THAT BoneNiA vitAL exGNe ane



es baa :

g

§

3 SECRET,

i WARNING NOTICE Pace v0e UF vue = +

$ SEWSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED : a

H FURTHER. DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO f spaaeess

CONTROLS STATED 41 BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

WEAKENING AND THAT WIS GASTRIC CONDITION IS. DETERIORATING, ‘ ‘

EXILE LEADERS HAVE ASKED GOVERNMENT PERMISSION TO HAVE - ;

BOSCH ADMITTED TO A PRIVATE HOSPITAL AND HAVE INOICATED THEIR a
WILLINGNESS TO PAY ALL EXPENSES, THE. CUBAN EXILES HAVE ALSO
APPEALED, TO PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES P ER E 2 TO EITHER

RELEASE BOSCH OR BRING HIM TO TRIAL. PEREZ, HOMEVER, HAS

REPLIED THAT HE CANNOT YIELD TO ANY TYPE OF PRESSURE INCLUDING
LTHAT OF: A HUNGER STRIKES,
“3. (CFIELO COMMENT: IN

MINISTER OF I#7ERIOR OCTAVIO
VEEP AGE SAID HE FEARED BOSCH'S DEATH WOULD BRING ABOUT
“’YNUREASED TERRORIST ATTACKS AGAINST THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

AND, IN TURN, OFFICIAL REPRISALS AGAINST THE CUBAN EXILE
7 COMMUNITY.2

Q. ACOs VENEZUELA, CARACAS (28 FEBRUARY 1976) ayo
25 NOs ae
Ke FIELD DISSEMs EMBASSY, FOI AT CARACAS,
REPORT CLASS 8 EC RE T WARNING NOTICE*SENSITIVE: INTELLIGENCE
. SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVEDeNOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS®
_- NOT RELEABABLE. TO. CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONBULTANTB,
CLAGGEPIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER, xGDS~2, :
OL. t am OW



i
{
{
!

Ae
| aupoaTas souRces WKOLET/HKDIET#S DIRECTLY. 7 :
|

mye

town

Antigen tome mene

co “

© wee

$5723709 SECRET
,

NY
ACTIONS LaedS (291) ad td FILee VR, OD0%0, Cheas EPS/EGH2y 11

ODPD=0, PCS/INTSS C3esn ‘
maatibbabed ren

attekbshadesnbe llc
4
7 0350012 PAGE 003 OF 003 1 O12 ‘ reer
TOR: 23136067..FEB 78 ARA 35) a
eecccenecercoccocccevores: cena asestecceccenenen :

wweeccccusceceuscoscosecoroosess:

BLCRE T 23:621Z FEB 7H INTEL
CITE CARACAS 35561 :
TOs DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI,
WHINTEL INTEL KMSTONE

OBJECTIVES Jele. NO INDEXs FILE DEFERRED.
He BY 035133. :

FILED) «2316212 NHK

cent si Fad Hf

Recon cory] esta
G -



: ~ stcae ’
: Intelligence Informat:on Tabie i 250. : :
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF Tras euORmAnOn SuasecT TP AGE 003 or 003 : ‘

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF BEPORT.

SYATE/INA JCS/HCCOIAD CIASNNCE S8/I0 FAT
(8T/TAG) SWS NSA TREAS S00 (HARD COPTES Tos
WSC/B NFAC WHSITAM OCR BSECUR ODA),
by Gesared tepereny Orta baie Som Gore ramen teen of 10 tea) beampnes,
SEIT Biv necaes Ooene bow keene bemoans

THS 1S_AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUZIZO INTELUGENCE

REPORT CLASS 8 E CR E TeONNINTELeNORORN@NOCONTRACT

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/CUBA

suasects Orears THAT THE DEATH OF ORLANDO BOSCH AB a RESULT
i OF A HUNGER STRIKE MAY BRING ABOUT REPRISALS
eee “  qpota 20021 Feoruary 1978)

OTH THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT AND THE CUBAN ExiLe
_ROMMUNTTY IN VENEZUELA ARE CONCERNUZD THAT CUBAN EXILE LEADER
ORLANDO BOS CH MAY DIE AS.A RESULT OF HIS CURRENT HUNGER
STRIKES FURTHERMORE, THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT FEARS THAT
MOULD BOSCH OIE. CUBAN EXILE. GROUPS WILL S#28 UP THEES atfacxs
N VENEZUELAN FACILITIES. THE CUBLN ZAILE COMMUNTIY, IN TURN,
ARS THAT EXILE ATTACKS. ON THE VENEZUELAN® WOULD BAING ABOUT
SURTHER VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT REPRESALG AGAINST THe sxiLE Come
WUNTTY. CREELO COMMENT) BOSCH HAG.GEEN ZMPREGONED in VeNEEUELA
ANCE OCTOBER 2976 IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOMBING OF A: CUBANA
TWURGINERS HEs AND THE OTHER INDIVIOUALA ACCUBEO OF INVOLVEMENT
in THE BOMBING, HAVE NOT YET BEEN BROUOHT To TATA. BOREH.
‘aurrens FROM ry ntant ATLMENT 1 awd ULcERS, HAG BREN ON A

eaten

OMCs ung le ab eep engin bee abba t a9 | [Vater ah

Aa mg

i



SECRET Am e8Sper2

oa MARLINS NOTICE “Pack 002 OF GUS
SENSITIVE INTELLIGERKCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

FURTHER DISSEMINATION 4NO USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO _ Pate ‘
; * CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF CEPORT

“unger STRIKE FOR APPROXIMATELY THREE mEERS.) é

2. (ON 20 FEBRUARY 1978 OCTAVIO L EP a: 6 €. VENEZUELAN : é * .

MINISTER OF INTERIOR, DISCUSSED BOSEH'S CONDITION alte a :

CUBAN EXILE LEADER IN VENEZUELA. LEPAGE SATE THAT HE wAD Se

RECEIVED REPORTS ON BOSCH'S PHYSICAL CONDITION AND THAT HE AND
OTHER GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS MERE CONCERNED "THAT .BOSCH MIGHT
INDEED OIE. SHOULD THIS OCCUR, LEPAGE SAID WE HAD NO DOUBT =~ is

THAT VENEZUELA WOULD BECOME THE TARGET FOR CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST

ATTACKS. LEPAGE EXPLATNED THAT BOSCH'S DEATH WOULD MEAN
PROBLEMS FOR THE GOVERNMENT AND THE EXILE COMMUNITY. THEREFORE.

: Lepace~ ASKED THE EXILE LEADER TO TALK WITH Bostn aNd erree
: 10 Drssuane HIM FROM CONTINUING WITH THE STRIKE.

x THE CUBAN EXILE LEADER ACCOMPANTED BY RETNALOO

“MART t N CANO. A CUBAN EXILE PHYSICIAN, VISITED BOSCH 1
THE HOSPITAL ON 21 FEBRUARY ANO FOUND HIM TO BE IN SERIOUS -
MYSTICAL CONDITION, BOSCH ALLOWED MARTIN TO GIVE HIM INJECTIONS

10 COMBAT GRAIN. DEHYDRATION, BUT REFUSED ANY OTHER TREATMENT.
BOSCH ALSO REFUSED. TC. GIVE UP ‘HIS HUNGER STRIKE.

G. BOSCH EXPLALNEC THAT HE WANTS Yo BE BROUGHT TO TRIALS

eur ADDED THAT VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ

‘38 aPnato 10 BRING HIM BEFORE A COURT OF LAH, PRESIDENT PEREZ.
BCH GALO. GETRAYEO HEH AND THE CURAN EXILES. FURTHERMCRE ©
OIDENT PEREZ WILL BE PERBONALLY REGPONSTOLE FOR HIS ozaTH
0 WELL PAY THE parce att RIB GUILT. (CBOURCE COMMENTS.
exene fetieccine



: ; ¥ Seca nseag e egoninag ete perp
- iH . ~

5 creisit SECRET"

: : wheeTns NOESCT “ “pace 903 OF 00
j SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED .

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION suaJect TO = it
1 CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

* DETAILS OF PEREZ' SUPPUSED BETRAYAL OF BOSCH ARE NOT KNOWN. : “4

THE OPINION OF THE EXILE COMMUNITY 1S THAT. BOSCH AND: PEREZ. HAD

SOME SORT OF DEAL WHICH BOSCH FEELS PEREZ. BETRAYED.)
Se ACGs VENEZUELA, CARACAS (22 FEBRUARY 1978) FIELO NO.
peuasaeea] i : : Seemed

6. FIELD DISSEMt EMBASSY. FBI AT CARACAS. :

‘REPORT CLASS. SE C RE TeeWARNING NOTICE*SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
{+ BOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED=NOT RELEASAG!E TO FOREIGN NATIONALS= :
_ NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS. tee

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGOS=2



aye

ACTIONS IP/0P6S (OS

cm) if
Gerecesssececceesse \ cenecesenesaccceccucscecscesoone i
16 0335306 : ae PAGE 003 fi - ea
1720302 ‘FEB 78 Cara 35580 :

eescceace nus coccosestaucecessescuceserece
SECRET 1719032 FEB 76 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH : i
CITE CARACAS 38550 a oe
TOL WASHINGTON, : : :

1: one Lasve)
t)

SUBJECTS OSSIBLE RELEASE OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH H
|| REFERENCES WASHINGTON 173605

2, LEGALLY THERE IS LITTLE CHANCE OF CONVICTING BOSCH
: AND THE OTHERS BECAUSE THE CRIME WAS NOT COMMITTED IN VENEZUELA
» . AND THUS VENEZUELA HAS NO JURISDICTION IN THE CASE, SECONDLY» sears
THERE IS NO EVIDENCE AGAINST BOSCH AND GROUP. THESE ARE THE 4
OPINIONS OF A NUMBER OF. STATION AGENTS AND CONTACTS INCLUDING

i

|

| RALIKE=2¢ WKDIET@6 AND
. | WKSCARLET©9, :

2.. WHILE HERNAN AND LUGO SUPPOSEDLY CONFESSED TO THE

CRIME IN TRINIDAD, THEIR CONFESSIONS ARE NOT ADMISSABLE IN
. COURT AND THEY HAVE DECLINED TO REPEAT THEM FOR VENEZUELAN
~ JUDICIAL AUTHORITIES, THE EVIDENCE LINKING HERNAN AND LUGO
TO POSADA COMES FROM TELEPHONE. TAPS, WHICH ARE LIKEWISE
INAOMISSABLE, BOSCH'S CONNECTION WITH THE CASE COMES FROM
& TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN LUGO: Awd POSADA IN WHICH
THE. NAME "ORLANDO" IS MENTIONED, DEFENSE ATTORNEYS COULD
WAKE & GOOD CASE THAT THE "ORLANDO™ BAS OZSIP OFFICER ORLANDO
GARCIA AND NOT ORLANDO BOSCH,

3, THE GOV COULD, OF COURSE, PUT PRESSURE ON THE COURT
AND JUGGLE THE EVIDENCE TO GET A CONVICTION, BUT TO DO 30 WOULD
LEAVE I7, OPEN FOR CRITICIBM INTERNALLY AND REPRISALS FROM THE
CUBAN EXILES, AND WOULD MAKE IT MORE LIKELY THAT THE DEFENG
DANTS WOULD OLVULGE EMBARRASSING INFORMATION CONNECTING -
- GOVERNMENT FIGURES TO BOBCH AND THE EXILES HE LED.

WO FILE, €2 IMPDET

aE ; sient
[ RECORD COPY ] :
secret he SOF SID | |

0 tA



98 A cart ear

detee cores

T 97¢598 ELA9O9

CLIE CARACAS 33517 (HACKELING ACTING)

.

YO! IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI, FR/NEW YORK,
“WNINTEL INTEL MKSTONE

“SUPDATA! SOURCE: ARCA EBGigurter=s Fron suaJEcT oF
. GARAGAS 33285,

; OD OBVECTIVE: “J.2. NO INDEX,
_ FILE DEFERRED. (NOTE: INFo SHOULD BE PASSED
TO DUPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR
: SECURITY.) GL BY O35433.
LO PULED! «28 212e2 WERK

“be RET



@ PRIORITY

Intelligence Information Cable

WARNING NOTICE SARS
SEXETIVE INTELLICENCE SUUECES ARD METHODS INVOLVED

SIAL ‘oe Shee Cua) Cu Mace Hot ode Teta MAC'S 400 md OCR PAGE VOF2 Liter

< (SY/TAG) «S23 POL SECUR Mstriee TOA O50 Ors . ‘
Bicicaale Oo | pst atin Sa os ee oo a ee aaa

‘Ormanons .
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AMD USE OF THIS INICRMATION SUBJECT TO :

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END CF REPORT. : 7
TTRFODUALICN DEPORT, NOY HNALLY EVALUATED INTELIGINGE
———_—_— ——_—_—_—

| SECRET i 7 (____
Ammmernere : COST 28 JUNE 317?
REPORT CLASS SE CAE T WARNING NOTICES SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND HETWODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE To FOREIGN NATIONALS@:
“WOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS oR COW TRACTOR/ CONSLA TANT S~ DI SSEMINAT ION
AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR:

" GOUNTRY: VENEZUELA
bor . 24 QUNE 1977

SUBVECT: INTERCEPTION BY VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS OF A NOTE

BEING SMUGGLED IN To THE SAN CARLOS. PRISON FOR ORLANDO
BOSCH

ry on rr JUNE 4977 VENEZUELAN SEcuRITY OFFICIALS INTERCEPTED

Ly wessace, waicn WAS BEING SMUGGLED INTO THE SAN CARLOS. PRISON.”

For (CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BO SC Hs WHO 18 CURRENTLY UNDER

DETENTION. TN VENEZUELA IN CONNECTION WITH THE 6. “OCTOBER 2976

* MOMBING OF A CLAANA AIRLINER, ALTHOUGH THE. ME88,08 WAS INTERCEPTED,

VENGHUELAN AUTHORITIES COPIED [7 AND THEN ALLOWED IT TO a DaL IVER ED
a hi 1 Gn rt 1



oe

ae 32838

. WARNING KoTicE . Sreeeeaiaees eee
SsExsve. SOUNCES AND METHODS INWaVED.. PAGE? OF 2 PAGES
SECRET FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND Use cw

CONTROLS STATED AT oti

18S INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
ING AND ENO. REPO!

whem |
MHO PRESUMABLY 1S UNAWARE Twat THE HESSAGE WAS INTERCEPTED,

(SOURCE COMMENT: THE IDENTITY OF THE SENDER 15 UNKNOWN.)

2, THE NOTE WAS WRITTEN IN THE SANE CODE WHICH VENEZUELAN
AUTHORITIES HAVE BEEN ABLE To BREAK.
“oF THE NOTE!

TO BOSCH.

TE FOLLOWING IS THE TEXT

“@URBAN GUERRILLAS BEGINNING, $00N YOU WILL BE SET FREE,

APARTHENT RESOLVED. ANITA GAVE H@ THE MONEY.
s
“8, CFLELD COMMENT:

MARCOS"

FOR INFORMATION ON AN EARLIER HESSAGE
warTTEN IN CODE FROM BOSCH TO AN ANA By

FROM THE SAM@ SOURCE.)

‘FIELD DISSEM! EMBASSY, Foy at GARACAS. SENT TO USUN, | «

OURCES AND METHODS. INVOLVEDeN oT RELEASABLE To FoRETGN NATIONALS -
OT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS oR CONTRACTORZcONSUL TANTS~



ePadoucilon ev crag te
tasurie oFice ws emosnery

TN 310060 cee

TaRr 1642172 UN 77 22986 i

ore
: SECRET 162052 JUN 77 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH CHEE ¢

\ clTE 22986, : ; a

i TOs “WASHINGTON, :
'
FORt CvLa : .
| MM One.

SUBJECT: wNINTEL/ORLANDO BOSCH = “THE NEW TIMES® INTERVIEW
er: DIRECTOR eso2e7 Aec- 397273

J+ WORKING PEOPLE'S VANGUARD PARTY (WPVP), A SPLINTER
PARTY WITH FEw ADHERENTS LED GY BRINDLEY B E N Ne PUBLISHED
3. JUNE MIMEQGRAPHED FLYER WITH HALF GACK PAGE DEVOTED "JAMAICAN
“!DAILY' NEWS* INTERPRETATION *THE NEW. TIMES" ARTICLE. ARTICLE'S
" FOCUS IS THE BOSCH/PERES CONNECTION AND THAT BOSCH IS A SELFe
PROCLAIMED CIA AGENT.

2. VOL ARTICLE HAS NOT BEEN REPLAYED IN

| THE WPVP FLYER REACHES FEW READERS AND THEIR.
REACTION IS NOT MEASUREABLE,



seem ven ~, reves corte

a7) SECRET
Cen tewemne eerie +4

Imp, Pes/int 5

$$ eee
T o7eso8 Eraces PAGE 81 IN 326360 fiertsteer]

: Oo

; ‘BOC RET 2022262 JUN 77 INTE

i CUIE CARACAS $3517 CHACKELING ACTING) ~ $usuditesaren"cenasueniGissetsseetisets
Ot IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO LAVHIAMI, FR/NEN YORK.
-P > WNINTEL INTEL MKSTONE
. SUPDATAS SOURCE: NKRAPIER/@RAPIER-5 FROM SUBJECT OF
: . CARAGAS S3185.,
Veen [) 0p pevectiver vst. No invex,
“PILE DEFERRED. (NOTE! INFO SHOULD BE PASSED
TO DUPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR
+ SECURITY.) GL BY @35133.
ATED! eeae82 —— womx

Hin DIGI

40 pent?

“ @G8erat

: [ RECORD. COPY ]



Intelliger.cz Information Cable .
‘WARNING NOTICE

SRNSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED a

STATR/IMR JCS/MC (DIA) CIA/MMCE SWS NSA TREAS NSC/S $00 NIO OCR PAGE 1.OF2 PAGES,

(SY/TAG). : SS/TD FOI SECUR . WHSITRM DDA OSO ors, 4
Sisco iS 4 Ro, Mat emen eS re
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO i feats)
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT. .

ANT Tie i FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
eee Ling ih
+ SECRET oe eb et EE EEE een ete He
4 : aia DIST 28 JUNE L457? :

* REPORT CLASS S EC RE T WARNING NOTICE* SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE To FOREIGN NATIONALS=
J NOT RELEASABLE TQ CONTRACTORS oR CON TRACTOR/ CONSUL TANT S~ DI SSEM INAT ION © _

i AND EXTRACTION oF INFORMATION coNTROLLED a (GRIGINATOR.

‘ GOUNTRY: VENEZUELA : :
Le? pone 24 JUNE 1977 : re ee
a SuBVECT: Ow TeRCer TON BY VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS oF A NOTE
BEING SMUGGLED IN TO THE SAN-CARLOS PRISON FOR ORLANDO
Bosch rs E

“Sy ON a4 JUNG 2977 VENEZUELAN. SECURITY OFFICIALS INTERCEPTED
W°WESBAGE. WHICH KAS BEING SMUGGLED INTO THE GAN CARLOB PRISON
WOR CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BO 8 CMs HHO IB CURRENTLY UNDE
DETENTION IN VENSAUGLA IN CONNECTION WITH THE € oCTCOER: 2076
Q0%GING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER, ALTHOUGH THE MESEAGE MAB “INTERCE? TED,
VEMEAUELAN AUTWGRTTLEN COPIED IT AND THEN ALLOVED 17 YO 4 DMLIVERED



aero

NN -328RS

: SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED. - PAGE2 OF 2 PAGES

SECRET 7 FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INTORMATION SUBJECT TO :

i
|
 Bcstzsee tosse etedis cesses tacetists| \: ’
WARNING KOTICE © : : \ a
‘a CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END. OF. REPORT. '
i
!

- TO BOSCH» WHO PRESUMABLY IS UNAWARE THAT THE WESSAGE WAS INTERCEPTED, : : +a
USOURCE COMMENT: THE IDENTITY OF THE SENDER 1S UNKNOWN. i
i 2. THE NOTE WAS WRITTEN IN THE SAME cone wHtcH VENEZUELAN
“AUTHORITIES HAVE BEEN ABLE To BREAK. THE FOLLOWING IS THE TEXT
“lor THE NOTES

_ MURBAN GUERRILLAS BEGINNING, SOON YOU WILL BE set Free,
EE APARTMENT: RESOLVED, ANITA GAVE ME THE MONEY. MARCOS®

: “CFEELD. COMMENT: FOR INFORMATION ON AN EARLIER MESSAGE
WAITTEN IN CODE FROM BOSCH TO AN ANA Po|
(Fron THE SaNe SOURCE? -

eal FUGLO DISSE! EMBASSY. FBI AT CARACAS. “SENT TO.USUN,

‘ neeort CLASS $ HC RH Te=HARNING NOTICE-BENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
: jaunces AND METHODS INVOLVED=NOT RELSASABLE- TO. FORETON NAT IONELS

‘NOT RGLEASABLE TO CONIRACTORS. OR CONTRAGTOR/CONSULTANTS= :
“DISBEMENATION OR GXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY
R10 INAT OR, CLASBIF IRD BY RECORDED REPORTING CPF CER,:

O08



s4-oodoa"

we coaeieensitae ron

cance asc onsen Se elec an lB wo Bo
SECRET
Peneoniuntt nOTIFIE : |

ADVANCE Copy IsSuEO/SLOTTED

paneer e

T 924601 ErAL91 PAGE 01 TN 340970.
TORta@ 28122 JUN 77

Ss € Cc RE T 1019412 JUN 77 STAFF
Seite, j2eesa
» TOR DIRECTOR INFO

MINTER :
J REF? DIRECTOR 930267

1. 10 DATE. THERE HAS BEEN NO LOCAL COVERAGE OF *NEW-
TIMES" ARTICLE MENTIONED REF.
2. 10 WUNE 77 FRONT-PAGE ARTICLE IN|
{ QUOTES DOMINICAN MAGAZINE "AHORA" AS PUBLISHING
DECLARATIONS By ORLANDO 8.0 °$ £4 IN WHICH LATTER SAYS
COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT DANIEL 09 DU BER GAVE HIM THREE
PASSPORTS» ONE PERUVIAN AND TWO COSTA RICAN, AS
' GOMPENSATION FOR BOSCH'S ARREST. IN COSTA RICA ON
"48 FEORUARY 76, HE WAS EXPELLED FROM COSTA AICA Dx”
27 MAHCH 76, cee :
<o.3e WILL -ADVESE ANY REACTION TO ABOVE.



CAUHUIE = ta Go cee
SECURE STORAGE

“DISPATCH

WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

has requested that the Station pouch the

attached memorandum entitled "Orlando BOSCH Avila; LETELIER

Assassination,” dated 27 May 1977, and the photograph of Hector

Bmilio Ramon DAVANZO CINTOLESI to

Lhe at ht en

Orig 6 2 tea, Ab Bh/w

2 26179.

Pryor

1 June: 1977


q

Pa

é

i

H

H

supject: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA; : eos |
1

i

\

pater: 5/27/27.

LETELIER ASSASSINATION

The Chilean Department of Investigations ndvised
that the International Police located a record of entry for
PEDRO ANTONIO PEXA RODRIGUEZ into Chile on 8/30/75 frox eae
as a tourist, PNA RODRIGUEZ was carrying Dominican Pa sspor’
#086768, which disclosed his date of birth as 1/8/29, DENA
RODRIGUEZ was admitted to Chile as a tourist. No record for
PENA RODRIGUZZ's departure from Chile could be. located,

The Chilean Department of Investigations advised that
the Chilean Passport Office located a record for HECTOR EMILIO
RAMON DAVANZO CINTOLESI, who wa: born on 8/15/27 in Santiago, | 4
the son of. RECiOR DAVANZO and AMALIA ENRIQUETA CINTOLESI, .
- This individual has Chilean Santiago Cedula da rant yet 2,357.4"
and Chilean Passport #27,671, the latter being. issued: o1

10/22/75, Chilean Passport Office recorés list DAVANEO  eINTOLEST'.
fddress in Santiago as Calle Miguel Claro #1129,

Attached is a copy of a photograph of DAVANZO
ieee eat which was copied from his Cedula de Idonticad,

The Chilean Department of Investignticns rivised
“that the International Police reported that NAVANZO CiNTOLESI He
‘departed Santiago on 12/28/75 cnroute to Panasia,. Avacrding: to od
International Polico Yecords, DAVANZO CINTOLESI waa gavyy ing 7 5
Chilean Passport #26,563, when he departed Chile on 4/25/75,

The Chilean Department of. Investigations y sported : ®
that the Chilcan Parsport Offices advised that Chilean Yeesport +4

“26,583 natually bolongs to RAUL MARTINE% TONNE: 23, Chiluan Cedula
de Identidad 6,020,052, Chilean Pnsaport Office records dig |

. .

“CONFINENTTAL



ESS EP NY SN

us
’
! é i
poo t ‘ : { .
. 3 :
@ : '
rot ‘
ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA . | Hesead jteaaal
ass LETELIER ASSASSINATION le . Tee
: at #
closed that NARTINEZ TORRES resides in debaudebe ea at Avenida Peet i" “tf
macs Las Soporas 98, Apartment 401, _ i: 7 1
It is noted that PEDRO ANTONIO. PENA RODRIGUEZ . i :
and HECTOR EMILION RAMON DAVANZO CINTOLESI were false i
+

identities utilized by ORLANDO BOSCH AVY] during travels
throughout South America, s ;

vate

saint SO heh Soe ellbie pe oes a a



Sn amsscr?
Be)
f=]
2.

~ ~
_ CONFIDENTIAL

1S June. i977

i

MEMORANDUM Mr. Ray Reardon epiceo !
0S/SAG : i 4 i
oe g hat
FROM +} Maurice A. Sovern te | sities
0/SA/DO/O if : jae 7
SUBJECT : Directorate File Holdings. on Orlando ne : :
euievteriend Bosch Avila 7 H ‘ v.} .
.RBFERENCE 3. FBI Memorandum, 1 June 1977, Subject: | 4 3
srsiesiat Ralph W. Stavins : eer? :
1.(C) With regard to reference, and to the Assistant . ‘.

"Secret."
2. (U/FOUO)

as custodian of t!

Distribution
Original 4

1
1
“L
1
a

is any possibility
e

Attorney General's (criminal) memorandum, dated 20 May 1977,
same. subject as reference, this Directorate maintains a 7
personality (201) file on Orlando Bosch Avila, presently in i
six volumes and containing material classified through, paatciae

Please keep this office advised if there .
that the files or a Directorate officer
. files will be involved in. the possible
. prosecution of the subject of reference. (fess

0/6A/D0/0:MASovern: kaw

{atgned) Maurice A. Sovers

Maurice A. Sovern cae

(1842)

08/SAG
BA/C/LA

SA/C/LA (201-299292)
occ -

8A/D0/0


MeonriveNTiAaL 9

MENORANDUN FOR: Mr. Ray Reardon
. Os/SAG

i

i

\ aH a Es

| 15 June ;1977

eens sian

i : FROM Maurice A. Sovern i
at 0/SA/D0/O |

4 J

| SUBJECT : Directorate File Holdings on Orlando !

| . Bosch Avila . :
a REFERENCE } FBI Memorandum, 1 June 1977, Subject i

Ralph W. Stavins

i

1.(C) With regard to reference, and to the Assistant
Attorney General's (criminal) memorandum, dated 20 May 1977,
game subject as reference, this Directorate maintains a
personality (201) file on Orlando Bosch Avila, presently in ”
six volumes and containing material classified. through aiints
jecret.

2.(U/FOUO) Please keep this office advised if there
is any possibility that the files or a Directorate officer
as custodian of the files will.be involved in the possible
prosecution of the subject of reference.

(signed) Maurice A. Sovern

“* Maurice A. Sovern ia
(0/SA/DO/O:NASovern:kaw (1842)

Distributior : :

is Origiiel 4 OS/SAG 7
SA/C/LA

BA/C/LA (201-299292)
occ

8A/D0/0

peererered
Heeere



po dhedicdensd

1 932697 EL A008. PAGE 4 IN 313802 ae
YORS3417202 JyN 77 CARA 33397

SECRET 1426332 JUN 77 INTEL I

CITE CARACAS 33307

TOU: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI, FR/NEW YORK,

WNINTEL INTEL KMSTONE

SUPDATAT ZRWAHOO FOR POSSIBLE SPECIAL HANDLING: SQURCE! ° ~
WKRAPIER/WKRAPIER?S FROM SUBJECT OF CARACAS 33185,

OD OBVECTIVE! J.4, NO INDEX, FILE DEFERRED.
(AMBASSADOR REQUESTS THAT THIS INFORMATION BE PASSED
PROMPTLY TO DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY QF STATE
POR SECURITY IN CONNECTION WITH THE FORTHCOMING
“ VEGIT OT PRESIDENT PERE® TO THE UNITED STATES.> |
*- Ob BY O35233,
_PULEDI L4L63SE KRXKK

arp coment AT _REGUEST OF LA REPORTS OFFICER, INSERTED nsw IN FIELD DISSEM LINE.
: LIPTER CABLE SENT.>

eecrar tle AIG2IL, |



eb geneirecinesn

Inte..gence Informa

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

gers SO PRIMER “Ta UDI 7Ene MOF LOPE MG et oe
oye See en

FRURTWER CISSEMINATION. AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUMECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AY BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

AN FORMATION TEROAT, HOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTEGENGE

a

bist bY JUNE 3977

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED= NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS®
WOT RELEASABLE .1O CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNTRY VENERVELA

bot - BARLY WNE 1977

| REPORT CLASS SEC RE T <eWARNING NOTICE* SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

suBveCct INTERCEPTION BY VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS OF A NOTE
7 FROM ORLANDO BOSCH THREATENING VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS

dy .VENERUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS RECENTLY INfeRcer TED &

_WESSAQG WHICH CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO B08 C Hs HHO tS CURM

SAUNTLY UNDER DETENTION IN VENEZUELA IN-CONNECTION WITH THE i

¢ OCTOBER 1970 BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER, WAS ATTEMPTING 70

QNUGOLE OUT OF THE PRISON HHERG HE TE BEING WELD, CROURCE

“GOMMENT! IT I8 NOT KNOWN HOW BOSCH'S NOTA. WAT BEING amuaa. ao

; QUT OF THO PRESON OR WHETHER BOBCH 16 AWARE. THAT THE NOTE HAE

| WEEN POUND BY VENGRUGLAN AUTHORE TICS, THE {DENTIN OF THA ADDRES OEE
: pacret Ol IAG AIR



emveonv cies

wm De

WARNING NOTICE f :
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES L ‘

SECRET FURTHER DISSEMINATION’ AND SE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO pity
. CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT. 4

a en eral

1S ALSO UNKNOWN? : 5 5 f ane
2) THE NOTE WAS WRITTEN IN A CODE WHICH VENEZUELAN AUTHORS

ITIES WERE SUCCESSFUL IN GREAKING. THE FOLLOWING 8S THE TEXT OF
BoScH'S NOTEs :
s MANA Ps eee

jen MOTHER MESSAGES WILL FOLLOW. ATTEMPTS TO KIDNAP
: “VENEZUELAN DIPLOMATS” ARE GOING To OCCUR. VENEZUELAN
AMBASSADOR TO THE, UNITED “NATIONS, THIS INVOLVES A
TREMENDOUS AISK FOR ME AS EAM 'STILL IN JAIL, WE
“Wav TO ATTACK EVERYTHING. EXCEPT THEIR PLANES IN
THE AIR, THEIR OFFICES ON THE GROUND, YES. I HUPE
10 GE PREG SOON, “THERE 1% NO PRION. 0.8)"
3, PIGLD OLSSEM1, GMOASSY, FOL AT GARACAS® USUN .
papont cLass SEC AE TeKARNENG NOTHCE*SENSIT2VE INTELLIGENCE
OUNCES AND MEHODS INVOLVED@NOT RELEASABLE TO PORTION NATIONALS
ETO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CGNGUL TANTS,

, CABGIFIED BY ABCOADED REPORTING CPFICER, NODS 98 i

<OPRVANGE COPY TRANSMITTED 101 STATE. DIAy ARNYs NAVYS ATR UCSs NSAy SUSS
: ace CEA/OPSCENs FUT, SS/ZDq TREASURY.



FBI DOCUNENT © (HENO FROM DIRECTOR)

TATE: 1 JUNE 1977

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: RALPH W. STAVINS - POSSINLE ESPIONAGE
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)

swale +

cope



, OUTGOING MESSAGE 2

4] os oe
i + amenancomrseutsones a Ee i
roar ae) nas j
a en a” 3 ’
SECRET u
ean ence moan emvcwtenne "awe :
STAFF (Ob3535zZ DIRECTOR
ae wero: PRE tee

é AS
' Toa IMMEDIATE CARACAS-¥
WNINTEL MHSPIKE KMSTONE ¥
PREP: DIRECTOR O43NG3 ¥ ;
“3 Ye HEADQUARTERS URGENTLY. NEEDS STATION COMMENTS ON nESSAGE a
» FORWARDED REFERENCE. . IS THERE ANY CONFIRMATION THAT BOSCH: GAVE a’ “y :
INTERVIEW. AS ALLEGED AND THREATENED VIOLENCE ON PART. OF HIS
FOLLOWERS UNLESS HE IS BRIGHT TO TRIAL WITHOUT FURTHER peuaye ¥ x 2

2. NO FILE. fa. IMPDET +d : ae 7

S ASKED FOR ANY INFORMATION reLaten TO INTERVIEW.

RIG! LA/PNC xausaes a Bes/TTC regecoonans :

LA/COG \ AUTHIDC/LA/PN: ‘RELs C/LAD LURRENY =f

impoa
, OY, 007088



OUTGOING MESSAGE

~

wT eae lo j
onr oO o oO Ly 6 6 o : a
cussmearen fee
-SECRET : peeps : toe
erences mee CRATER eare-ret oneur -n ereenes aorerenes aeeam i .
STAFF L ‘ 0223342 DIRECTOR A OuNsse :
- HE a Disseu BY: +
i. Comp: clfZA§ wo: FUE ef psa Doe Wf : ‘

nat Dome 8/32
Tor CARACAS.¥ ; , : ;

| QNENTEL REAM MHSPIKE ¥

| + de FOLLOMING IS TEXT OF FBT CABLE 28052025 DATED 28 MAY

_ yav?. THIS INFO TS FOR ADDRESSEE'S BACKGROUND ONLY: NOT TO BE
“DISCUSSED OR OTHERWISE PISCLOSED OUTSIDE AGENCY WITHOUT PRIOR’
Was AUTHORIZATION. ¥ aise

cs ASTG-CENTER! PLS TRANSMIT ATTACHED FEI CABLE ITN 4
eran! BEGINNING UITH TON MAY 234 2977 .A SOURCE. » -"1 ¥ ri
a. “FILE: 024-300-0285 201-2792%2- te, rnepered

eed
eee wad THAME 5
ORTG! LA/COG/EXILE {SPEED XLB2SF4 COORD! Pas ° TLATRASH?S -
THY C/LA/PNC/V {ANDREWS?S REL C/LAD bak = 7
: : 7.

eire:g JUNE: 3977 é

One: HORACE -SPEESIRCY

Um: LA/COG/EXIPE.
3388

Wee

seCRET



OUTGOIN™S MESSAGE

Canes Comoe cme
Pa ae -~ e = ele

oor 0 oe a o Q

caoeenen

bo Sh SL SO ib wos ere ~ comets
- STAFF oseas DIRECTOR Ce ee
com LAQ wee mer 1/ds, CA¥, cafsog 4, DED wn TH
; reed, poole, bon Don, ersfega "Omen me
: : fs - Denn’ ¢@ af t
° WOR. PRIORITY HEXICO CITY
z jem [
"INFO CARACAS.¥

* UNINTEL : 2

7 Ae M2 WAY QDITION OF *THE NEW TINES.® UsS. MONTHLY LIGGAN
SENSATIONALIST NEUS MAGAZINE, CARRIES ARTICLE BY FREE LANCE
_ SOURNALIST BLAKE FLEETWOOD GASED ON HIS. INTERVIEW WITH CUBAN
EXILE TERRORIST ORLANDO BOSCH» IMPRISONED IN VENEZUELA Hance
WITH TNVOLVENENT IN BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRPLANE LAST: OCTOBER.
ARTICLE WHICH ALSO CARRIED AS UPI ITEM AND EXCERPTED RECENTLY
TN-CERACAS DAILY WEVSPAPER, IS MIXTURE OF DIRECT QUOTES FROM

AS WELL AS ALLEGATZ@NE, ASSUMPTIONS, ETC. FROM OTHER EXILES.
AND OTHER NEUSPAPER REPORTS. oe Mas A
APTER DISCUSSING. CZA SPONSORSHIP “AND SUBSEQUENT BETRAYAL
OP ACTVZTIES OF SORE boDDC ANTE-CASTRO EXILES IN EARLY: SIXTIES.
OSCH LAUNCHES ATTACK ON VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ
POR BEING TRAITOR To DEMOCEACY. TO CUBA AND TO INTERAMERICAN
CAUSE AND SAYS HE THEREFORE DECLARING WAR ON VENEZUELAN

: 17
ar ig Oro
© dot 2F9AI AL

‘sOaematiNe GoretOD : crrapreaten wornen
(APRORUCTION BY OTHEA THAN THE IDBUING OFFICE IO PROMIBITEO = = IMPDET
oN, ' oe Ch. a



OUTGOING MESSAGE

(oss-as Comren ves oon
no a

onr. oo o a o a a

eseemeemen

SECRET : . : .
eons vanes aaron

%
$

bash oo aca ee Goan
i 636287 O mm ran

ome 8

i GOVERNNENT. BOSCH CHARGES VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT. ntursten OF

{ INTERIOR AND TOP POLICE OFFICIALS CONSPIRED WITH HIM AND SHOULD
BE IN JAIL. HE CLAIMS HE WAS OFFERED WEAPONS AND BODYGUARDS.

_ WHICH HE REJECTED. AND WAS PROVIDED WITH SAFE BASE OF OPERATIONS
- 70 Puan TERRORIST ACTS. ¥ a :
: 3. BOSCH CLAIMS HE "SET UP" HURDER OF TWONCUBAN ENBASSY
OFFICIALS LAST AUGUST IN ARGENTINA AND THAT HE WAS ALLOWED ©

LIVE IN CHILE FROM DEC 74 TO SEC 75 FROM WHICH HE PLANNED “AND
ENGAGED IN SHOOTINGS AND BOMBINGS IN SOUTHERN CONE. HE THEN.
ENGAGED IN SIMILAR ACTIVITIES WHILE LIVING IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.
AND DETAILED FORMATION OF CORU CUNBRELLA GROUP OF ANTI-CASTRO
WILITANT EXILE ORGANIZATIONS? LAST JUNE AND SAYS CORU HAS BEEN
RESPONSTOLE POR OVER FIFTY BOMBINGS IN US. MEXICO. VENEZUELAs.

‘| PAWARA. AND HEXECG SINCE THAT TINE. BOSCH ALSO CLAZNS COSTA

i RICAN PRESIDENT ODUBER FURNISHED HIM WITH FALSE PASSPORTS.

SCH DENZED INVOLVEMENT IW ALLEGED DINA PLOT TO ASSASSTNATE
WePHEY OF SALVADOR ALLENDE AND INVOLVEMENT IN LETELTER ASSASSINATION. .

> MOMEVERS THE ARTICLE CLATAS WHEN HE WAS FIRST ARRESTED 2H VENZZUELAs
: ’ : :
= PATEL *

. 7 i age : e
secon tins H —
mrnerabnda 7 esman THAN THE wou PFCs 19 amt wi

wre eb



OUTGOINC~ MESSAGE

~ wana comrun use one
: «- oS me aren y
3

onF oO o a a 0 o t')

emerearon

SECRET i ,
eseias sence oesneree —, -- cexvnan cnrenenes memes :

Hy STAFF DIRECTOR 6 feet

H _ . " — OIssam GY) 3

5 0m wero: Fue O>6287 bmatiey i
tardetaa OD ammo PER Hay
i Hae teat

WE “REPORTEDLY INDICATED THAT FELLOW cusAN, EXILES with union He”
CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WERE DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN BOMBING OF LETELIER-
: “qe IN ADDITION TO ABOVE ARTICLE REFERS TO BOSCH'S TRAVEL
aN CARIBBEAN TO ESTABLISH ALLIANCES WITH FRIENDLY GOVERNMENTS
IN NICARAGUAs DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. COSTA RICA AND VENEZUELA
| WHERE POWERFUL CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITIES EXIST. ALSO MENTIONS
; “SERIES OF BOMBINGS INCLUDING THAT OF PANAMANIAN EnBASSY IN. CARACAS
ND GULYANESE. EMBASSY IN TRINIDAD. REPERRING TO ALLEGED PACT
WE MADE UITH VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT NOT TO ENGAGE IN TERRORIST
acts AGAINST CERTAIN COUNTRIES. BOSCH CLAZRS HE WOULD EXCLUDE
NENEZUELAs COSTA RICA AND DOMZNICAN REPUBLIC SUT INSISTED: ON”
MCLUDING PANAMA {BECAUSE 27 A LEPTIST DICTATORSHIP? AND _oyayana
WHOSE EMBASSY was ALREADY ATTACKEDS>. ALSO REFERS TO ARREST
> INTERROGATION IN TRINIDAD {BY POLICE CHIEF eenewaery] OF ‘THO
DAN EXILES WHO AT PIRST ADMITTED COMPLICITY IN CUBANA BOMBING
my TNVOLVENENT OF BOSCH AND THEN LATER REPUDIATED: THEIR CONPESSTONe
SINCE UPZ CARRYING FLEETWOOD INTERVIEY OF BOSCH. If
LaKeLy APPEAR S57 tN caninenee AREAS SOON. PLEASE CABLE

ocapautne arneree


OUTGOING MESSAGE

i ONE oo o o o 09
, SECRET HIE i ies
i; stare DIBRECTOR + ‘ i
: sue: me a ous OISSEM BY: i
= 030287 ole i
i Done @

= HIGHLIGHTS OF LOCAL COVERAGE AND REACTION. ¥
&- GENO FILE. €2 INPRET.d

"ertet LAOPS X12733 COORD! C/LA/AN ¢ ow +
Ps. CALASSB € 2A -C/LAIHCA € Fe. C/LASPNC ow” : no
| CALALCAR & DA. CALAZCOGE © DENAUTH: C/LA/OPS <a bSermo i;

DISTEPANO X9439> RELI HC/LAD Leoyecxemusae.#

“CALAZPNS

i (. oe i C/LA/CAR <
S111) cu. Bate Resceet 5

} fem cas.
ranma ouaas vo
mento a enon ae 5 ewer

oben tage


A/COG/CUB EXILES TUBE:

TTT FEL

FYI; THOUGHT THAT THIS MAY BE OP
INTEREST. YOUR COPY.

PCS/ITC/LA

6448/9054

TUBE: ES-2
MAY 77





“Lam going
to declare war”

a

It tad been a long time since Dr.
‘Orlando Bosch had talked to a reporter.
He had been a fugitive for three years—

another, he would forget what name he
had decided to tse and would begin fur
bing amona hia fox phony passports.
‘once been a practicing pe-
diatrician, first in Cuba, then in Miami,
but for more than 20 years now the tools
of his real trade had been instruments of
Geath—plastic explosives, rifles and ba-
ookas. He ted a group of Cuban exiles
Impitcated in some"150 bombings and
tome $0 murders in the last two.years
Wew Times, October 29, 1976). His
group had been linked to the car-bomb
‘assassination of Chitean exile leader Or
tando Latelier in Washington, D.C., last
‘September, and now he wes under arrest
tn Ceracas, Venezuela, Gdasg with or-
dering the bombing of a Cuban commer:
tla arliner teat October 6, which killed
13 people, He fa one of the most famous
terrorlats in the world,

A tall, henvy-set man with thick
Garros, he was sitting in the sun in the
Corscas when I walked up tobi,

“Dr. Bosh?" f asked hesitantly,

"¥en?" he ropiled.

myself a6 o reporter
from Naw York, He equinted as he cares
hi tired Gime k
low did you get in here?" he

‘erked suapiatously, Ms

1 told hm {had called his lawyer
two weaks before ind been told to vome
down to Venesucta. iy: the time tare

tive fhe tawyer hud grine.on vacation

J outta’ reach him, twas in der
‘palr,.'d fawn 9,000 mites for nothing,

By Blake Fleetwood _

12 seemed that it would be impossible to

see Bosch. I knew that Joanne Omang of
the Washington Post had spent weeks in
‘Caracas trying to see Bosch and hadn't
Been successful. In desperation I had
called another lawyer; who surprised me
with a simple .. “Tomorrow is

suggestion.
Nisiting day,” he said. “Be there at 8 |
. &.m. and maybe you can get in.”

‘At eight the next. morning,
showed up at the prises gates and saw

- two lines of visitors waiting to entcr the »
_ptlaon. On the left were about 300 womn-

‘en burdened down with baskets of fruit,
plea, cakes and fresh linen for their im-
Brisoned menfolk. To the right stood the
four male visitors to the prison. Ina tew
minutes the line started to move and I
followed along. 1 pessed a table where

AP: someone asked me for my eddula, Al-

wa
Orlando Bosch is ina
Venezuelan jail, charged
with ordering the bomb-
ingofa Cuban plane in
which 73 people died.
Inanexclusive inter -
view, he tatks about his
years asa terrorist, his
secret alliances with
Latin American govern
mentsand his plansto |
_ get even with the
“traitore” who put

him injall. °,

‘though I understand sce Spanish, this
was not a word I knew, Everyone else)
handed him what looked like an 1.D.
card, 50 I took cut my pasapert, He took
{t and gave me email plastic stub, One:
‘of the peards, who spoke x ratigh, cour -
try Spanish that was: dificult to. under>;
atand, tuld me te put down my ‘rieteasa -
and ushered ma.into % emoi.bathroom
where U was (risked, ‘Theis my briefcase

to me. I followed the other four men;
through two barred gates, And suidanly
Vreallzed 5 was In tho prleon-—at liberty,
to find Bosch ariweng the haingliia pilsonis
eu, 1 ceited one of the mute respeviahlee

. Jooking rlionere where | could init Or-

lando Hoash,

“"Yeu'ra tn the derona plage ation. °

pather. Wl teke you to him." And be
did— through endloee corridors nod cell:

~bloaka, Wa ended up in a auilit court:

iio fa. coctlon of the prisun renetved:
tal prleonere. He suinted 10.
teat away, ws if he dida’t want io,

+ wae quiukly searched and handed bask.



et to close to the mou! famous erin
all of South America “Over ther-—at
dat table, That's him.”

Ttold Bosch that not only hadn't
they asked me whom I was going (0 see,
‘but that they had somehow missed the
compact tape recorder in my briefcase.
Bosch, as it tumed out, was anxious to
‘talk toa foreign reporter, saying that the
‘Venezuelan government had prevented
other interviews. For six hours, over the
din of homemade drums in a-nearby’
courtyard, he poured out his story.

(Cuba the same month 50 years ago. We.
‘both came from fairly prosperous mid-
dle-class families. We both ended up at
‘the University of. Havana in the late
1940s, I was in medical school and presi-
dent of the student council, and Castro
‘was a delegate to the student council
‘from the law school. Although we had
our differences, we worked together of-
* ten and were both elected to our posi-
tions from. the same political party,
which was very much in the center be-

day when all Latin American universities
azo dominated by Marxists, We were
prerfibeh

| Bosch left Cuba in 1952 for two
years of intemship in pediatrics at Tole-
/ do Hospital in Ohio. “When T finished in
1934, I returned to my hometown of San-
> te Clara and set up a practice as a pedia~
trician. But the tyranny of the Batista
eee oe oe re

” ae the Batista’ dictatorship was
choking us. I became the leader of the
‘duly 26th hlovement iu my province and
‘we woa the fight. I was appointed to the
government at a minister of communica
‘thon, But even as the war was ending, we
were having problems with the Commu-
ists, They ere taking over
1 Tne T fought against it, but
‘was nothing I could do. At the time,
Tell ed fl te Carta and ha vval
tle, But then ft got too bad, end after a.
month 3 resigned from the government:
‘That's when { started:conspiring against

Rosch told me about the group of
ntl-Castro guerrillas be had led in the
Bacambray mountains n' Cubs In 1960,
=e ahgaler says, tentenced him to
ing out of supplies, he

ber nls ‘cower ted to Florida, where
they found a benefactor in the CIA, At

New York freedance war Blake
Fleetwood taal wrote for New Times on
‘meroury Bolsaning in Canad,

ry)

eee

ima ince Oe

"“*Fidel Castro and I were Bom in”

‘tween the right.and left, It’s not like to-

one plbim, the ageacy had tp ito 6.000
Cutan ericson its payroll. |

Bosch interrupted binsetf and
took sx! to his ceil, a small six ty<ight-
foot roca lined with Spanish tile w siipa-
per. A small Soay television sat on
‘Sbeif ia the comer, and there were fresh
“designer™ sheets on the bed. Bosch in-
troduced bis cellmate, Luis Posada, wits
is also being held in connectiva with the
‘pline bombing. Posada pulled out.a box.
‘ot Havana cigars and offered me one:
“America may hsve an embargo against

Bosch and Potada had worked
together during the heyday of C1Aspon-
sored’ antiCastrp activities in the early
sixties, including ‘bombing missions
against Cuban sryar mills and gunboat
attacks against Castro’s fishing boats,
But, in 1963, after the Cusan missile erie
‘sis and the subsequent reduction of ant.
Castro’ activities. by the Kennedy ad

mitted to his cause. “I felt betrayed by

“The Dominican
government let me stay
in the country. and
organize ‘a ons. ' ane
wasn't going ui
every day. We were

conspiring there.

Pianning bombings and
killings” ma

‘the Kennedy administration and by the
CIA. They held out a dream to us and
‘thea tet ua down,"

His own milliancy had only ine
creased. An exile group he led claimed
credit for 11 bombing attacks against Cu:
dan territory; six times Bosch was ar

‘rested emi! violating U.S. neuicality iaws:

on September 16, 1938, he was:
Exch inthe ttf ring smabosin br
‘tooka into the hull of ePotith ship
docked n Milam,

Most of tis testimony: against:

Bosch at hiv sut-esyucnt trial came fram -

Ricardo Morales Noverctie. Mocales Iba
man of many hate-—terrortet, informant,
hit man, mercenary: and cop, He hed
‘been an agent in Castro's eacret police, a
CIA operative, = paid informant fur the:
FBI, an szent provocateur, an anti-Case
tre terrorist, Today he is a top Venanues
Jan sesrot-police official,
Moraten vat ta Mlarnt
woting on inerrictions

from the FOI, cuppiled Bosch with dyna.

2 aden.

ete and C-4 explosives for blowing up

. He also fixed and put in firing coa-
ition the bazooka Bosch used against
the Polish ‘ship. Morales testified that
Bosch had.said he was sorry that the
‘bomb he planted in a ship called the Osa-
a Mari went off in Tampa Bay, because
“the thing that'he wanted was for that
ship to blow up outside in the middie of
the tea because he was ansious to see all
the Japs swimming and screaming ‘Wee,
wee, wee!" while the ship was sinking."

Bosch was sentenced to ten years
in federal prisoa, bun was freed on parole
‘on November 1, 1972-~

‘During his imprisonment, Bosch's
wife had left him. His voice broke as he
‘old me about it. ““This fight cost me my,
family and my five kids. They love me
and are very proud of their daddy, but 1
‘was in jail for five years when they really
needed ine. They were 13, 11, 10, 8 and
5. They grew up without me. You know
how society is there, all the drugs and.
rime. | wasn'ta very good husband."*

Bosch has always lived simply,
‘wearing'a succéssion of old bagay suits,
often staying at the slum houses of his
supporters. “If had stayed in Miami
and practiced medicine 1 would have
made many millions by now. But Lcould
nat do that while my couniry was in ago-
ay. have paid very much for the strug-
le, very expensively, but that’s the only
way I know. Sometimes .a'man hes a
higher duty than to his children, Some-
times @ man has a duty to his homeland,
‘That's the duty Lfeci."*

‘Soon after his release from pris-
‘on, Beach's sense of duty took an om
nous new ture. Detente between the
United States and Communist coontriea
‘was chilling to the militant Cuan exiles,
‘A new exile group fo:med—=the National

~Pront_for the Liberation of Cuba. or

LNG, . snid to be modeled after the Pal
‘astinian terrorists. Soon an FLNC death

list began to circulate around Little Hor

vans, and thea one eaile leader on that
list, 5080. Elias. de ts Torriente, was om
tausinuted. Ricardo, Morales ‘narrowly.
‘taceped death. when_a bomb exploded
‘under the front.seat of his car, The' Mik
‘smi homicide squad wanted to talk to
Bosch, but he had dissppeared,

‘A few monthé-tater; Ina clades
tine Interview withthe Mlam! News,
‘Bosch pralsed the Torrlente sssnseinee
tlon ae **a good lesson'to the exile coms
munity, #0 that .no one else will now
‘some furth with phony theories 19 foot”
sand rab the people."" Neverthalos, he
disclaimed direct responsibility, and said
the had gone underground because he hed
culncidentally violated hie parole by
traveling to New Jersey around the thie

sCaginacrcn teen aan aA SI AEM

3
5



of the assassination. Bot, he added, “I >
went underground to direct the interns
Gonalization of the war. I thought that j
. the action people [terrorists] should get
ut of the U.S. and operate from differ-
‘ent bases throughout Central and South |
America." In the next 18 months, four
‘of the ten people on the FLNC list were
Ailled, and a fifth had his legs blown off:
~ "During ihat period, Bosch was
traveting widely in the Caribbean. (Did
+ fhe ever stip back into the U.S.7 Rosch
Taughed. “If 1 have to go to the United
‘States,.1 59.) His main goal was to
forge. alliances with friendly covern-
ments in Nicaragua, the Dominican Re-
public, Costa Rica and -Venezuria—all
countries with powerful Cuban exile
.

first pact with the Venezuelan govern-
ment in 1974. He had entered Venezuela
from the Dominican Republic in June of
that year, using @ false Dominican pass-
port in the name of Pedro Penya. “We
- set off a bomb in front of the Panamani-
‘an embassy in Caracas. We chose the
* WOth of October because that is the date
the liberation of Cuba was announced
!_ ba 1898, We did it because the Torrijos
~” dictator {Panama's president) announced
that be was going to Havana, and he did,
_ and he kissed Castro, At the beginning | Ee
‘the authcrities blamed some Panamanian :
general who was in exile here. About pe f
‘two weeks tater a Communist Cuban of- i :

! : : : nes asta
Hees ertby—deu role kpc i LYNCHBURG. has some of the oldest homes - i
| dato the mudience and before the guy | int Tennessee, And the oldest registered

bes

featodote Went werttota any. distillery in America... ae oS
sa, but we just didn’t wort the-oay t© | Jes arte of a is Jack Daniel's. Where

“t continued conspiring a tat | we still make whiskey. the way. Mr. Jack

ym Pear a :

ere eee Ba sour te | Made it in 1866. And. chen smooth it out -
la of November 1 wat aronad ©Y | wich his age-old charcoal: mellowing process.
ealpalcl, Tha dane othe ree at If you're interested in i
(st he Us anew at Botch's dan old ‘Tennessee homes,
tirade Mim) Thee {made ry fet fr we'd be glad to show dp
you, around Lynchburg. -;

If you're curlous. about *

: ° 4 A : ;
1 follies pipet te oid Tennessee Whiskey, wd i
| peat Cee’ ee wou ba shan fet a sip of Jack. Daniel's wenor |
- racue, they me in th if : i ”
fume of Preuent Carlow Andten Peter be your guide: to.
| Mata ih tit Coane pyre
welt pe hen thon olor He low Aenea Way 0 ial» Ke an tas ean ey
i to Curavan, where he avat with Culler Lem Maton, Prop., Ine , Lynchburg (Pop 361), fenn. 97302 A
%.

tao Novo and other Cubsn caile tondare | M/#snd in ene National Ragietar of Matures Places by the Unuted Stalee Guverniment,



from the U.S. "From Curacan,”* he *-'6,
“Novo and I flew to Chile and mad
of effort there." Bosch lived in. Chile
from December 1974 10 Deeniber 1975,
where he had another family with a Chi:
Jean woman, According to press reports,
he lived at a gucst of the guvernment in'a
government apartment. ‘I passed sever-
al times {rom Chile to Argentina. We

tried to shoot rome Cuban diplomats in.

the middie of 1975 and we set off a bomb
at the Mexican embassy.in Buenos
Aires, We made good contacts there

with members of the triple-A party [a>

right-wing extremist group}, Uecause of
the contacts we made down there, we set
up the mutder of tivo Cubun diplomats,
‘That was part of the agreement U had
with them, On August Sth laxt year, Uhad
a call from our p:ople down there: They
said, "You vead the papers today?"
Bosch then made a slashing motion from

Wes eoech lnvalved?-Griendo Lateler (lop) wa Seecetrieeraion B.C,
‘The bombing of e Cuban jet off Barbados killed 73} In bottom photo, rescue
workere examine e body pulled trom the water i

‘ene end of his threat to wnnther, The two
members of the Cuban embhavay in Are
geniina whe ware kidnapped Auguat 9

in layne dw be ot on haa

tom enan
~ We have onnincte with penple-
= (hat allover Latin Ama

apparently wilt not be heute

In Rurope, Atver doing everything that {8
poreible fi the Bouth Cone (Chile, Are
gentina and Uniguey}, we had three
pond avtlune (bumbinge:cr ahoctiny
wat nict a7ly the. kb that we td but alec.
the mage and retationthine thet we ea
tablished while .we: were: down there
which was the main purposes"

Carlos Rivero Collade, a former
cuban eule leader who has returned to
Cuba, has etittea that Bosch received
‘special iaciraction iq avsivunation and
personal anacks during his year in Chile
from the Chilean National intelligence
Department. “The purpose behind the
training was to have Bosch avsastinate
Andres Pascal Allende. nephew of ‘the
stain Chilean president,” he wrote,
According to former Costa Rican
Foreign Minister Gonzalo Facio, Bosch
arrived ia Nis country with the Andres

and other Chilean documents in the
name of Hector D'Avanzo Cintolessi,

‘Bosch entered the country from Nicara-

gua where, according to Facio, he had
met with “close aides of President Anas-

tasio Somoza.”* On the basis of intelli-
gence reports Bosch was detained in
Costa Rica.and, while being held, ac-
cording to Facio, ‘he told interrogators

. be intended to kill Secretary of State
Kissinger,

who was due to arrive here

‘s00n thereafter. Bosch admitted tome

that he had been in Cotta Rica, but

would not acknowledge any role in the
Jassassination

plots,
“after leaving Costa Rica I went

" .t0 live in Santa Domingo until Auguat of

‘1976. T had a number.of good friends

cara of the hemisphare in the Dominican:
. "The story of CORU [Coord

"patton of the United Revolutionary-Or+

genizations] is trus,” he told me, “Thare
‘was a mecting inthe Bonao mountains of
20 men representing all difforent (Cuban
enile} activist organizations, It wae a
meeting of all tha military and political
@irectors with revolutionary Iniplica
tlons. It was a great mesting. Everything

“wes planned thare,"*

‘The top men from Alpha 66 (New
Jersey), Abdalah (a New York-bared
youth group), the 2506 Brigade (veterans -
af tha Hay of Pigs invasian), RLNC, #14
(New York City) and Avalun Cubana (8 -
group Roach headed) mat fur two deysin
the Honae mountains in early June, 1976,
deta deoldad to tmnd tupether Bal se

‘Grgantention, CORU, With
wel the only identified apukeseuen
and lender,



1
i

“At last we had all the Cuban rev. Dominican

obaioaary fighters and leaders together,
after 17 yeart. We decided to upscale the
‘scsion after that. We wanted 10 beat the
guy {Castro} or at least make his life im-
pottible. | tolf them that we coulkint
just keep bombing an embassy here and
18 police station there, We had to start
taking more serious actions—hijack-
ing.” (According to a Cuban exile news-
paper, one of the resolutions that came
ore of that meeting wan a vow “to begin
attacking Castro's planes in the

“1 accepted the leadership of
CORU because I wanted to set every
‘thing up on an organized basis. We were
tired of being frustrated and not accom-
lishing everything that we wanted to
do."*Bosch brought the other leaders up-
to-date on the kind of help they could ex-

bombings withia the United States: po-

«- flea sources say the feaders had agreed
not to take credit for actions within the
U.S, because the FBI was putting too
much beat on them.)

sould let me live in Venezuela under an

twinclude ranaina and Guyana.

“Ysaid emphatically, oo: 1 agreed -

to include Costa Rica, but'I didn’t want
to include Panama because itis a [leftist]
dictatorship. And I didn't ‘want to in-

. Clude Guyana. We had.alreddy attacked
Guyana. The CORU already blew up the.

Guyana embassy in Trinidad,

“Finally. they’ said, ‘AU! right.
We'll just inchude the three countries.
‘You can do what you wantin all the oth-
ers." They offered me use of weapons,
bbut I refused, saying that we already had
all that we,could use. They offered me
bodyguards from the DISIP {the secret
police}, but I didn't need those cither.
They gave me an identification card

from the DISIP which I took—-l think it _

‘was in the name of Sucre. I was always.
traveling around the countryside with a
‘great many bodyguards and lots of weap-

Bosch’s secret pact with
Venezuela “was going. '
perfectly well. in tact, 1:
Was supposed to meet
with President Perez on

“Cstober 10, but then the

plane blew up on the 6th
and all the trouble
started”.

cons If got topped, I would fist show +

my tecret-pofice card, tnd: wouldn't
‘hava any problems."
‘So Bowch had found in Veiezueta

ty adviser to Venezuelan President Peres

‘and a top officer in the DISIP}. Garcia
told me that he had been jogging with the
eusrelean- with the preal-
Gent every day-and that Perez.hed totd
him to (nvite me to Venezuala to make a:
deat, B didn't pay any attention, but after
he called ma thros times and sent mee
visa, Lcome.

“At the airport 1 wae met by

whose textimony had tent Rosch to jail,
and who had by that time become a high
efflala! ta the DISIP]. They tock me tow
funurloue government apartment In.the
Anauco Hiltca and we made a deni, 1

H ier there wauld.not be.any ac>

ie

—— Coste Alves and Ld

Garela and Ricardo Morales [iho man

‘the Cuban exiles on the front pages—and,
landed Bosch tn jail, The. first was the
‘September. 21 assassination in Washing-
ton, D.C., of Chilean exile leader Or-
Jando Lotelier, whose car blew up as he
drove pest the Chilean embassy in Shorl-
dan Circle, Cuban‘oxiles were immedi-
ately suspected of carrying out the crime
‘as hit men for the Coilean junta, i
‘The second was the October 6 ex-:
plowon In-flight of Cuban airline jet

shortly after.takeott from Barbados, All.

‘73 parsons aboard wore killed, The neat:
day, (wo Cuban exiles, Hernan Ricardo
Freddy Lugo, wore arrested in Trint>
dad, According to esoret court: docus
mente abtained by New Times, they cane
fered to planting athomb In the pine

ond. tmplicated Q:landy Buach lwo bal

Republic. Ini exchange they

boa: age 52}.
Up tt that point, Bosch told me,

“the pact (sith Venezuela] was going

perfectly well. ta fact. was suppowsd to
meet with President Perez on Qcrober
10. tut then the plane thew up on the ah
fend all the-trouble started. Uhad a lot od
conversations with Garcia. He lived ia
the Anauce Hilton alto. 1 ashed him
‘what should | do and he said, “Nothing is.
going to happen, just’ ay quiet. Doa’,
worry, everything is going to be ice.

“Then o..c day he calls me up and
‘says, “The president wants you to stay
hhere {at the police headquarters}. No
problem. You"! be safe.”
bbeen under ‘protective custody’ for tev
en months now, and tl’ president has.
aid on television that I was.a member of
the CIA and trying to destabilize bis gov
ernment.”

- Bosch claims that Orlando Garcia
has told him to “sit tight, everything will
‘be all right. We will let you go as soon as
‘the publicity blows over," But Bosch is

is even willing to entertain charges that
Venezuela set him'up from tha day he
‘was invited to liye there. Could his old
archenemy Morales have cleverly gotten
even inthis way?

. “Some of my friends said that
they called me back deliberately to be-

= tray me. Ldon"t know. Itis ponsibte,”” .

‘In any case, Bosch has decided to.
resume the offensive, “When 1 was

brought to the court the lest time, report-

ere crowded araund:me, tut F didn't any.
enything.
IP card. Edenied.

denied ti, but I can't keep quist,

Pecans him of betraying ws. Aalto to

‘democracy, a traite: (o ta Cubans, and
also a traitor to the American cause, Lam
going to declare war on the Venerucian
government in tie name of tho Cuban y
eaves. I don't ware inet i am siting in
Jail, Parox ts a traitor, He-wos caking
pact with Castro at the cama time that::e

wae making a pact with uss. :
“If they “ant to put me.on trial,

thoy will also nave to accuse the miniter:
Of iha-Interlor, the DISIP direstor ang
‘the: preaidant, Thess: nsople conspired
| me, They should be put In jall “
walle.

“Did you sso the Vinge [Verstuse

lan. Atstine} office blown up in Puerta-

Riew yesterday’? My Cubans blew It tp,
but cutbudy iv guing w the vedi fur th,

But U have ~

‘Thoy arked mo it Thad a Dis.



“the bus ha TTT The Beeb smite a big bulge tn
The bus has left _, Ricardos pocket and he wag ery. : ricy aah aiane torah
with the dogs”: ©.) sewws. 7 *. teaving theis bags in the hotel rooen ia
ce Teoh only afew minuiesinthe Barbados. On the plane kicardo buried
How they blew up toilet, butthea Ricardo foundhie 7+ bistbead in his hands and said to Largo, |
the Cuban Plame...) qwubtatectou. He panicked aut: “Shit, Lugo! I'm desperate and I feel
suarted banging cathe door. The | he crying. Ihave ever Lied anyone
1, UF stewardess tried to open the door from. - before.”
The following account of the the outside, but 13 ecoulda’t. She monte Holiday lan ia Trinidad
bombing ofthe Cudona itn tit = eri Ricando called Basch, who told bim,
based on secret Venezuelan coart > cock pit who Licked atit three times’ * ©: ‘'Friead, we have tosce each other in
‘with his foot, Finally the door opened » "Caracas, You never should explode ®
and Ricardo tumbled out. By the time

documents. Most of thé information -

: : drives aack by Rcarda'seratc
or the restol te fight Ricardo eld a Behavia:, had contacted the potice..
newspaper in front of his fac ‘They tracked Ricardo and Lugo to
_ They got off the plane in
* Barbados, collected their luggage. and
made their way to the Hotel Village.
‘ofie point in the eab ride Ricardo tol!
the driver to stop, jumped out snd
le

talked—they both confessed. Ricardo’
‘told Police Chief Denis Elliott Randwar.

*Feour. Sanat de fencer, elas booked
Ldn Cubsara Might 435, translated for
that he dooan's wat

: On Oetobey 24 after sli

‘e Sig, si irfenntont, ‘Rleardo trled to kill:

Ph rhc ben ‘brig with twa, ‘: Wear ‘saw someone ataring dt him» himeslf by-atnahing hie wrist with
‘ontneras ard a tubs of Colyate ‘up tothe rou Ina panla; Laigo.., : \ragor, but he wi twken tothe hospll

‘Wwuttipanta in it, With U co ways vnlvardo told tim, at‘e gett and wurvived.’ ;'

fencurd, 6 mediual atudente frac 4° 1) -* ot here right away, The ort Ab funeral éervl
! Buuth Ainerica, $ Koreans and 43." { atarad at me in the lobby i “Mitied on the plans, ffidal Cautra .,.
‘other, musily Cuban, passengare and “ot Cant ‘a nearest patty ‘ohurged that (he CLA was: ‘dlractly

tespontible forthe bombing, Aes

craw, Largo and Rivardo finally got on Je took a cat ta the dooke,'
renult, he terminated the hick

the plate, About half-way thraugh the, fiw wald, “and Ricardo threw -"!
‘Weninute Might, Rlowrdo gotup to gu to, , aomething inthe water, ‘Then ine anid
ihe hathrow la plant the explanive. {We should gat the firat plans ou of

ele Md



‘This is jost « messngs. There will be a
couple of messages more.”

HT asked him if there was going
be a Lignapping attempt egaimt Vene-

* gucten diplomats. (Aa FBI informant re-
ported a plan to kidasp the Vew-zuelan
{ ambatisdor to the United Nations in“

* March. The ambassador was informed

and surrounded with extra security.)
Bosch replied: "There are going to be a
bot of things aftes I dectare war. This is
‘going to be a tremendous risk for me bo-

* qaune UU still be in jail. After the war

Sectaration there are going to be a lot of
‘Doiwbings, a lot of kidnappings, a lot of
‘shootings. We have to attack everything
‘except their plane? in the air, Their of-
‘fives on land, yes."

And what about the spectacular
‘crimes that put the Cuban exiles in the
‘spotlight? E
‘Cuban government officials have
told recent American visitors that Or-
lando Bosch was enlisted and paid by the
‘Chilean junta to carry out the Letelier.
essassination. Bosch, they claim, par-

*Bosch concedes that

the Cuban exiles
: di

iscussed Orlando
Letelier.“Chilean
Officials told memany ©
times when | lived there
it they wanted him

‘onled oul the money to.other members of

...CORU whe actually blew up Letelier,

Bosch consdes that the Cuban. exiles

a0) meeting, and the fect thet {Leta
selon oh te ou

many tes vhen I Lived there atehey *
hhies dead." But Bosch denied

wand

tnowing anything about the Letellor as
taniiration. “Bvan tf I did know," he

1, “I wouldn’s tall anyone, J'm not a

AL

H too! plgson or an Informer.”

According to « confldentist intelll-

"pane rerort obtained by New Times,

Bosch was aot a: callcent

thot tha Latelan cave when quantionad
Venezuelan euthoritice thority after

}) The report ctatos that Bosch
told Rivas ‘Vesquos, second In command:
of DISIP, that,

Guillermo end Igneclo Nove. are
emang the mont militant and sativiet Cur

+ murder correlated with @ story that had.

er ralenta psy." @

Jben calle leaders in the United Sustes
‘They were arrested in 19646 for firing.
bazooka of the United Nations while Che
Guevara was socahing there, but charges
were dropped because they were not
read theif rights before they confessed.
‘Guillermo Novo (or Bill, as he is knows,
at the Chevrolet: dealership in Union
City, New Jersey, where he is anewcar
tales manager) was tentraced to five |
years in jail in 1971 for. possession off ex-
plosives. He served sia months, and was
Biven probation for five years. Under the :
terms of his parole he was not allowed to
leave New Jersey. But Bosch told me of
two foreign trips Bill Novo took—the
first to Curacao and Chile, the second to
Bonso. Bill Nove could be' sent back to
Jail for these trips in violation of pa-
tole—whici he denies making,

Bosch’s atery to Vasquez about
the Novos’ involvement in the Letetier

Goeringhouse, Box 4391, Wastungan,
D.C. 20012 (202) 723-1718 .

NOTICE:

Record Raters Wanted -

bbeen told to authorities by an FBI infor-

official hag been allowed by the Véne-
uelan government to see Basch.) On the
basis of these (wo leads Eugene Propper, ‘|
the Assistant U.S. ‘Attorney in charge of
the Letelier -investigation, has called
about ten Cuban enile leaders: before a-
Washington grand jury. Bill Novo’ was
called before the Letelier’ grand

twice, and twice iook the Fifth Antend-
‘ment. The government hai now begun
offering limited immunity to some of the
other Cuban exiles, hoping to force them
to talk. Recently.a friend of Bill Navo's
was jailed after refusing to testify before
the grand jury about Novo's travels to

‘As for Bosch, bis future’ is wm
clear, Venexuclan legal experts say the:
Weolitoed of coavicting him tr the. air-

misaible in Veneausien courtrooms; Tee
government has tapes of Ricardo’s tele
phone calla to Veneruela, but these, too,
tre inadmisalble, since they ware not ob
tained legally, Ht (s thus: entirely posalbie
ihai Bosch will be releused.

If that happens, he-wiil auraly slip.
eqeln. into the relent, murky: world
where slesperate ‘men are alternately.
used end betrayed by the secret agencies:
of governments, It-{e m for cry tom the-
fe of « proaperoue pediatrician, a fambe.
ty man; ® pillar of ble community, Sut
“unmia of uy" ae he told ave, “have alte

:
a arg 6200p oe

i



penne nee se PR EERE

i 1

nermcoucnon ey oman T
sua OFFICE IS PROMIET

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

ib :
: ’
i
- a "
| T 62685 = EL a172 PAGE O21 Inso72zeg
ToRs 2618052 FEB 7: MADR 34654 om
SEC RET 2437352 FED 77 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
CITE MADRID 34654 : asians
TOt WASHINGTON,

FOR! LA/cOG INFOL EIB y
SUBJECT: WN INTE L/ RY BAT/ WHS IKE Aerie OF LEGAL ATTACHE
“ON ORLANDO CASE"
REFE DIRECTOR 99227° .
"TN ACCORDANCE WITH. REF. MADRID LEGAL ATTACHE HAS BRIEFED
IN GENERAL TERNS ON “ORLANDO CASE". LEGAL ATTACHE WAS TOLD
“MAT THERE IS A THAT STATION
38 IN CONTACT WITH.HIMs AND THAT HE-MIGHT BECOME AWARE
+ "1° OF DBTATLS OF A CUBAN EXILE CFORNER HEMBERS BRIGADE 2526)
"PLOT TO COMMIT A TERRORIST ACT-AGAINST. A CUBAN OFFICIAL
WN LEGAL ATTACHE SAID ME HAD HEARD NOTHING OF .
THIS, AND APPRECIATED BRING ADVISED, DID NOT REVEAL
SOURCE IDENTITY OR LOCATION, AND HE DID NOT ASK FOR Al
“DETAILS. HE WAS OIVEN NANG OF HRs CHARLES UTERA
“SHOULD HE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS, &2 INPDET



OUTGOIN™ MESSAGE 24rT2

08 CIA

Con: g we: me Pt >, cles,
elias = Taleo

TOs IMMEDIATE DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY-¥

ATTENTION: U.S. CUSTOMS SERVICES ATTENTION MR. CHARLES BUTERA ¥

" SECRET/UARNTNG WOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS IN-

“ VOLVED-NO -FORBEIGH DISSEN.¥ Ee eeeeeeeeeeete : eoaeat
SudVECTi INTER-AGENCY REETING ON THE "ORLANDO CASE" ¥

“REFS. ¥ . et eee

“Se THE POLLOWZNG SUMAMARIZES THE DISCUSSIONS HELD BETUCEN
NESSRS. VIRUSTO AND BUTERA OF U.S. CUSTOMS SERVICE. AilD CIA REPRESENT:
ATIVES ON 4 FEBRUARY 1977 CONCERNING SUBJECT. THE PURPOSE OF THE
ETING UAS SAARC OMMMRCEEAND TO ARRIVE AT A QSSRREREEORON
RUTUALLY: AGREED. UPON COURSE OF ACTION IN THE EVENT SUBJECT IS CON-
TED BY MILITANT. CUBAN: EXILES FOR THE PURPOSE OF PARTICIPATING IN A

8 TERRORIST ACT.¥ tose 3
Q. THIS AGENCY TOOK THE POSITION THAT TF SUBJECT SHOULD PROVEDE
GROMEFTETAAD CREDIBLE INFORMATION INDICATING THAT Beaitinckasad
dare INTENDO TO CONDUCT A TERRORIST ACT IN SPAIENs THEN THIS AGENCY

(REET TEU TRRRRRRERRERETERTTSTONERCID WOULD HAVE LITTLE RECOURSE

“OP febry
fold P9LVE -

3 ImpoRT
cL BY ee



OUTGOING MESSAGE

sama, cer.reuss ome
Ce eee

onF a G 1) Q o tt)

eussseccenn
} SECRET “
H setteat nana macarons eera-rect niu on tteneenirecance mivens
r CIA o ‘
Cal NSSEM BY:
conr: + qNPO: mie Q
: GSEH0 Oo, an

i 7 ” O ome #
: » BUT TO ALERT THE PROPER SPANISH AUTHORITIES @ THE IMPENDING PLOT.¥

3- AGENCY REPRESENTATIVES REAFFIRMED THAT ALL REASONABLE STEPS

- youn BE TAKEN TO TRY-TO PROTECT THE IDENTITY oF “THE SOURCE WHEN

PASSING VITAL INFORMATION: HOWEVER, IT was ‘

POINTED OUT THAT THE AGENCY y COULD NOT FULLY GUARANTEE THAT SUBUECTE'S

NAME: WOULD NOT BE DISCLOSED’ OR UNCOVERED BY LOCAL AUTHORITIES IN THEIR’
; POLLOWUP INVESTIGATION SINCE MUCH WOULD DEPEND ON THE DEGREE, or
“supuect's _BINVOLVENENT.¥

uw Ue S. CUSTOMS REPRESENTATIVES EXPRESSED CONCERN THAT SUBVECT

: UNDERTAKE NO ACTIVITY WHILE; THAT MIZGHT VIOLATE LOCAL LAUS.
“THEY AGREED THAT THE DECISION MADE BY

UAS CORRECT IN THAT SUBJECT SHOULD AVOID THE PROCURING OF YEAPONS
FOR THE CUBAN EXILE GROUP WHICH ARMANDO: LOPEZ ESTRADA HAD REQUESTED. ¥
oma, TH RESPONSE TO A QUERY BY UsS. CUSTOMS OFFICIALS, IT WAS
ee? THAT UsS NAVAL INTELLIGENCE SERVICE; «WV ug
SERVE SONLY AS AN. ALTERNATE COMMUNICATION LINK FOR SUBJECT TO-uSE IN,
EVENT CP AN CHERGENCY coBDaROtIER THIS AGENCY WOULD CONTINUE TO
WANDLE suauccr. case |_| AS Has: BEEN RcauEsTED- ay U.S. custons



14-0000

OUTGOIN™ MESSAGE

SERVICE.Y

at
Q stonat cenren uae OMY

‘ or 9 0 o ao oc ao i
: unenenn :

SECRE T '
i lesennec moun ninestoe orem onve - een tant een “
: ron CIA 2
h Sica O mew essen sr :
i cone: ro: FILE : :
4 7 0 :
! a G20 He
i Denn ¢

t /, be CLASSIFIED BY OST4OS. EXENPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION
i SCHEDULE OF E-0- L1&S2 EXEMPTION CATEGORY SB {2}. IMPOSSIBLE To
DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.¥

ma connents REF PROVIDED REPORT OF “ORALANDO'S MEETING rm anapeap
; ie STATION WHICH WAS FORWARDED TO U.S. CUSTONS.

= GABLE SEC! PLS PROVIDE CC TO IP/AN FOR PILING IN 202-O2aNN%a5

203-00300225

RELEASED PER AUTHORITY: PR. RALPH KATROSH, ops/LsHeT2007U28-
Ate ; liliee all oF

crugsene

C7028 YY, 7; My

a hALhk®

une | BL lon—

o

oe
A.

7 areca. 77
RAUL HERN,
LA/COG/UH,
2834

Laem

IMPORT i i
& *oeationn 4



-OnF a
SECRET
(wesanee nenome meeanen re ree enoue om : stessaneevenencs mane
Stare pEReetor CC. 981153 r
. 0327042 a GD mes, . OISSEM BY: orig
oi LAS FO: PILE, s eos) Joo. no moss 7 i
bine o . SH ? 2 a servo PER
4% niaeuuy) <hé hyen/, egies ti gilt ciate

TOs IMMEDIATE DEPARTNENT OF TREASURY.¥

_—
ATTENTION: U.S. CUSTOMS SERVICE: MR. CHARLES BUTERA

i
~ SECRET/UARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURPEE
INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEN. ana 50
o :
SUBJECT: “THE ORLANDO CASE
i REF?

iy
1
é
¥

a ‘he HAD SEDERES ner

mORLANDO® {UNO SUBJECT OF REF}. AND INTRODUCEED HIM TO NAVAL
NTELLIGENCE INSEE REP NIGHT 1 FEBRUARY 1977.
“ORLANDO” WAS GIVEN PHONE NUMBERS HE CAN CALL DAY OR NIGHT
‘© ARRANGE MEETING WITH NIS REP AT STTE NEAR YS HOTEL {TO WHICH HE
AKEND TO REPORT IMPORTANT DEVELOPHENTS.

SHOULD HE FATL MAKE CONTACT
TA NUMBERS. "ORLANDO" TS TO CALL. NUMBER HE. érven[— | aN
SES HE WILL ASK POR *PELEX.®

“ORLANDO” PROVIDED FOLLOWING INFO DURING 2: FEB MEETING!
As HE HAD TWO MEETINGS WITH JOSE MAC TAS CUHOM HE
SCRIBED AS Beil NUMBER we 6 BRIGADE “@800)/ IN ATANT BEFORE

perl 9 OY
a
“6901 RLS
79° 200-8 e

os Feb
hell Jt 9

& 8 IMPoET
fi av.



“LITERARY HONOR. NACTAS GAVE ORLANDO™ MISSION OF OBTAINING TUO OR

ACONFIRNED TO HIM HE SHOULD PURCHASE “TWO BEDSPREADS” {TWO GUNS}.

LOPEZ WHO UZLL IDENTIFY SELVES AS *NUNBER 8."

OUTGOING MESSAGE

Seaman canreauad ome
wet tee we) ee
onF a a o a oO 0
eunnaereanon

SECRET as See .
(UNSAes Kae meCATOR (Care rane Come nm eansnes Marinence aeee ae ot H
Starr BEREETOR Cv cae
- Conr: wo: mut O we, pisse ar: - 690 H

ice 0 ene wae
95115 > ee :

_ O- *
COMING AT FIRST MEETING. MACIAS TALKED ABOUT POSSIBILITY
GE BLOWING UP CUBAN AIRCRAFT FLYING FROM

THIS BAS DISCARDED
AT SECOND MEETING BECAUSE OF PROBLEM OF FINDING EXPLOSIVES FOR THAT 4
AISSION.

MACIAS, INSTEAD) INDICATED HIS ORGANIZATION WAS: INTERESTED -
IN KILLING SENIOR CUBAN VISITOR T

MEMBER OF LOCAL’ CUBAN -

-EMBASSY OR, IF: THIS NOT POSSIBLES TRPORTANT SEANTSS COMMUNIST. ONLY
2s

NAME MENTIONED WAS THAT OF NICOLAS

paMbBige: ies ca

TLL t Ny BELL KNOUN CUBAN
POETHEGE AND LONG TINE COMMUNIST, WHO “CURRENTLY IN SPAIN TO RECEIVE

THREE HAND GUNS Fron naurtary PERSONNEL. HE COMMENTED THAT
INCE GI'S SELL EVERYTHING""ORLANDO™ SHOULD HAVE LITTLE PROBLEN
ING GUNS FOR LITTLE MONEY. ON SANE DAY HE/LEFT U.S. €30, JAN},

Py ge
ORLANDO” RECEIVED PHONE CALL FROM ARMANDO (L was t y “ESTRADA WHO

+. PER MACTAS BRIEFING. “ORLANDO” IS TO EXPECT CONTACT
aa :
T HZS HOTEL WITHIN TNE DAYS APTER HES ARRIVAL BY TWO HEN SENT BY -

REFER TO. ORLANDO"



OnF OO

eaeeeeenen

| SECREET : ei \
+ aeaane amass ee ret cane - ecocssemmecemmes 0!

. Stare : arrector C17 Cdesreereeeeeeeetene
7 iaeatiteaa woes { bessemt By: Co | 7

veneer
carve. PER:

i age | 981153
i a

ORLANDO" DOES NOT KNOW WHETHER HE WILL “RECEIVE PREVIOUS PHONE CALL
FRON LOPEZ.

HE GATHERED THAT LOPEZ HIMSELF MAY BE ONE OF amuo NEN ;
WHO WILL CONTACT HIM. rasta : f.

Ce

OUR MADRID REPRESENTATIVE ASKED WHY ARNANDO LOPEZ HAS

TO SEND HEN FROM UNITED STATES TO UNDERTAKE TERRORIST MISSION | ]
| WHEN MANY CUBAN EXILES LIVE IN THAT COUNTRY. ORLANDO” SAID THAT GEER
: EITHER NO ONE FROM BRIGADE 250% RESIDES OR THERE IS NO
MEMBER OF THAT BRIGADE| WHOM LOPEZ.TRUSTS. HE EXPLAINED THAT

THERE HAD BEEN CHANGES IN THE HIERARCHY OF THE BRIGADE IN LAST .SIX
MONTHS.

_ BORLANDOS BOSCH MADE BID TO TAKE OVER BRIGADE LEADERSHIP
PROM VENEZUELA BUT THIS WAS REJECTED BY LOPEZ SO THAT BOSCH SET UP
WIS OWN ORGANIZATION AND WENT ON ur THE RECENT DESTRUCTION IN
PLIGHT OF CUBAN PLANE WITHOUT ANY CONNECTION WITH BRIGADE. 250b.

LOPEZ, UHO ORLANDO” SAID Was

DELIGHTED" WITH BOSCH'S "SUCCESSS IS NOW TRYING TO COMPETE IN: CUBAN
TERRORIST GUSENESS AND TS PLANNING KILL ANY CUBAN FRIDELISTA or CVvEN
SPANISH COMMUNEST: HE CAN GET ACCESS TO DURING TRIP so

HACTAS TOLD "ORLANDO" THAT HE HAS SISTER ALEUAs MARRIED



OUTGOING MESSAGE
i cea Manttcenrna venoms Gl te st c foe
lesterol nicil@licole! elec ois i Yelena i
Lo. Sb OREN ; _
eres cuoewr BEREEHER CA eae
Cone: eyo: me E + fiheeale haarauuetbel ‘
' G5/ SF 0 mremve PER

to 4FNU} SU ARE Zs WHO HAS CHILDREN STUDYING. AT niversrty Pa
VALLADOLID IN SPAIN. SUAREZ COUPLE USED TO LIVE IN VALLADOLIDs BuT
SUAREZ CURRENTLY HAS JOB IN NIANT AS REFRIGERATION TECHNICIAN. "HE
© AND UIFE {BOTH US. CITIZENS OF CUBAN ORIGIN? MAKE FATRLY FREQUENT

SITS.TO YALLADOLID. MACIAS TOLD “ORLANDO” THAT SUAREZ IS COWARD .
AND LOUDMOUTH UHO CANNOT BE COUNTED ON. ZT REMAINS: HOWEVER, THAT
i UREN SENT BY LOPEZ COULD VISIT MACIAS CHILDREN. OR EVEN STAY UITH
oRMEN A PEW DAYS... wat bovba oR Ys teases
j. Be, MORLANDO". HAS DONE NOTHING AT ie POSSIBILITY
STAIN HAND GUNS. HE AGREED CURRENT INTERNAL SITUATION, GIVES :
MEM READY EXCUSE TO” INFORM LOPEZ AND HIS MEN THAT IT TOO. RISKY AT
AIS TINE TO TRY OT OBTAIN WEAPONS." “ORLANDO” SAZD HE, KNOUS NAMES OF -
Ne QR TWO AMERICANS OF CUBAN BACKGROUND uivine] sd eae LAINE |
DID NOT HAVE THEIR ADDRESSES AND THOS HAS NO: INTENTION or
TACTING. THEM. HE KNEU-NO ONE AT| — [BEPORE STARTING WORK THERE.
+ CLASSIFIED GY OSSUOS. EXEMPT PROM GENERAL DECLASSIPICATION: |
CHEDULE OF CeO. LabS2 EXEMPTION CATEGORY SBCED. INPOSSIOLE TO



. , OUTGOING MESSAGE

wens, conree uss omy

H wee
> om o 8 Oo OO 0 OO
» SECRET
fecsanee nenmine ees omemncene t
seapr - DEREETOR C/A (Toe
z O ons DrIssam BY:
come: ro: FLE in D womes
WS 3 tne
: Done #

CABLE SEC: PLS PROVIDE CC TO adi POR “PILING ba 202-0284N985
203-030022, 19-300-28- &

U
|
H BASED ON: MADRID 343L0 IIN 372821

Pa ha 2 9 92 Ye
Ao

“La IMPORT
4, _



STATE CABLE

FROM AMEMBASSY CARACAS 0854

DATE: 27 JANUARY 1977

SUBJECT: INTERROGATION OF ORLANDO ROSCH



PERBOR/UNIT MOT IT IED

apvance cory 153ut0/SLOTTEO
Tom _Ow

rita, vas boo 3, 399/00 2, Se

EA/CO 4 :
T 438491 ELA 25 PAGE 61 as TN 122257
TORI 0721402 DEC 76

|
|

31636

—$—————————.

SECRET 6719462 DEC 7A INTEL

CLTE CARACAS 31636

101 DIRECTOR INFO PORT OF SPAIN, KINDSTON, PANAMA CITY, “ceanaer anne

SANTIAGO» HONG KONG,

MWINTEL INTEL KMSTONE FUDWELL

SUPDATAs SOURCE PRAS 2-4) uno ferywxnveres DIRECTLY AND PARA .
4 FROM we TANG ges SOURCE PARAS 8°10 WKMAY OR/WKSCARLET 99

DIRECTLY (BEE BARAGAS O04 aan 0

“GOUECTIVEL Jud] NO INDEX. FILES 75-120028°

OL py os5i33,

err) ee

: hus ANSI. vn
Tmt] ee

Gacrnet



14-0000

iter DeURE: (rinen reed IM - 0

Intelligence Information Cable

WARNING

me 12228?

NOTICE ig
‘SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES ‘AND: METHODS INVOLVED A
Saver ayac ou ace swe nan Tat PACE 3PM A PAGEY.OF SPACES
iT 2
Sore heya Steer fea te ee:
© PUNTWER DISSEMINATION. AND. USE OF THIS INFORMATION. SUMIECT TO. =.
INNING AND END OF REPORT...-

| SECRET a Care TAR DE-BS/3eeS : toa

i F
t ‘CONTROLS STATED AT Beat i
INFORMAT Bi LY. EV. 1 .

i
1

|
\
\
1
i

Ist 7 DECEMBER 257

pepornt CLASS.S EC RE T WARNING NOT ICE*SENS ITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVEDSNOT RELEASABLE To FOREIGN NATIONALS?
not RELE ASABLE 0 CONTRACTORS oR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANT S==
DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFRMATION CONTROLLED GY ORIGINATOR:
counTay VENEUELA/ CUBA i os

pot GARLYeMED-NOVEMBER 2976
auesect. COMMENTS BY ORLANDO BOSCH ON THE BOHGING: OF A CUBANA
eee AIRLINER
; aca : “UVENERUELAD GARACAS. (12 NOVEMBER =1 DECEMBER 1976)

*

ae FIELD NO WVCS7BS4, ; SuETEE
aounces SEE BELOW eee
“SURHARY WHILE DENYING HIS INVOLVEMENT. IN. THE ASSASSINATION

ee OF FORWER CHILGAN FOREIGH MINDSTER ORLANDO LETELIER. CUBAN EXILE
LOADER ORLANDO BOSCH IMPLIED THAT HE WAS TNVOLVED. IN THE BonssNa OF

fh CUBANA AIRLINER, BOSCH BALD THAT, PRESIDENT CARLOS ANORGS PEREE

AY AT WIM BECAUSE HE BELIEVES: THAT BOBCH: BROKE WIS AGREEMENT

AND PLANNED THE CUBANA INCIDENT IN VENGEUELAD WHICH GOBCH DENTES.s

 WERNAN RIGARDO WHO 18 ALSO EMPLICATED. IN THE PLANE CRASH. ADHITTED

Twat WE WAS ‘BrnccnLy INVOLWED IN HIB -DOMOING AG WELL AB OTHERS, :

PUATWRRRORG: WE BAID THAT THE CUOAN @XILE COMMUNITY IN VENEBURLA
‘gecret :



wesc

Patra sere mene

i sor ane

ws (2228? a e

. Yorn DO-33S/Iea A : Hee oie i
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED pace 2 oF S PAGES i
SECRET FUNTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO ,
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT. i ij

WAS DPPROXIMATELY 49 POUNDS OF cw4 EXPLOSIVE. END SUMMARY, eat

Ly. “SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 2-61. A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WHOSE :
ACTIVITIES BRING WIM INTO CLOSE CONTACT WITH VAR{OUS GOVSANMENT
Gre tgtatS. WIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTAGLISWED, HE RECEIVED

THE INFORMATION FROM SOHEONE WHO SPOKE WITH ORLANDO BOSCH: a
2. IN HIDeNOVEMBER 1976 CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO 8 0 SC He
WHO 1S CURRENTLY UNDER DRTENTION IN VENEZUELA IN GONNEGTION WITH !
THE 6 OCTOBER BOMBING OF A CUBANA ATALINER, SAID THAT: ‘we BONING = LS
OF THE PLANE IN THE AIR HAD BEEN A MISTAKEs ACCORDING TO THE PLAN
TWE PLANE WAS TO HAVE BEEN DESTROYED WITLE ON THR GROUND IN TRINIDAD
AMD NOT IN THE AIRs BOSCH SAID, BOSCH ADDED THAT $7 WAS NOT INTENDED :
HAT ANT. ONE SHOULD OE KILLED AND AS IT TURNED OUP, THE INCIDENT nas |
WEEN COUNTER-PRODUCTIVE, BOSCH BLAMED THIS ON THE STUPIDITY OF it
WORUAN RT CARDO AND FREDDY L UG Or WHO ARG “CLARAHT LY: UNDER |
“ARREST IN CONNECTION WITH THE INCIDENT, (SOURCE COMMSNTI WHILE :
" BORCH DID.NOT ACTUALLY ADMIT THAT HE WAS INVOLVED IN THA QUBENA
oT WOMB ING, HIS STATEMENT CURARLY Tro oaten ale WE WAD PRIOR KRM. 6D OE
OP THE INCIDENT.) : Bot oN wee
9) BOSCH BALD THAT VENGEUELAN PRESIDENT camog ANDMUG PB ROR:
ANGRY AT HIM BECAUSE Ha DL IEVES Say bela ang B piegores te



ore 38-315/2227-7e

4
¥
i
| i? i we. 322257
WARNING NOTE ‘

SMNSTTIVE INTEIJIGENCA SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED. PAGE 3 OF S PAGES

1 SECRET FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THiS INFORMATION SUMJECT. TO
STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT. - i } ‘

CUBANA INCIDENT FROM VENEZUELA, THIS. BOSCH SAiD, IS NOT TRUE.
BOSCH FURTHER ASSERTED TWAT HE HAS HONORED HIS AGREEMENT WITH PEREZ
THAT HE WOULD NOT CARRY CUT ANTISCUBAN ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA uw
PEREZ Let WIM ENTER VENEZUELA WITHOUT DIFFICULTY, (SOURCE COMMENTS
BOSCH IMPLIED THAT. WHILE HE DID PLAN THE OPERATION, SUCH PLANS WERE
NOT CARRIED OUT IN VENEZUELA.)
4, @OSCH SAID THAT SHORTLY AFTER THE CUBANA CRASH, ORLANDO
@-AR CI Ap PRESIDENT PEREZ! INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY ADVISER, £
: WAD PLANNED TO GET BOSCH OUT OF VENEZUELA» PRESIDENT PEREZ.
BELIEVING BOSCH KAD GONE GACK ON HIS AGREEMENT. ORDERED GARCIA TO
“4QRGST BOSCH, GARCIA DID: HOWEVER, WARN BOSCH OF HIS FORTHCOMING
DETENTION AND GAVE HIN AN HOUR AND A HALF TO ARRANGE WIS AFFAIRS
“eEPORE GARCIA ARRESTED WIM, GOSCH SAID THAT AT THE TINE HE DID NOT
AEALLY TAKE GARGTAYS WARNING, SERTOUBLYs CFIGLD COMMENT! IN HVCH79240,
TOP IADE’ Si5/40256075, OF 29 OCTOBER. “A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE :
ORTED THAT GARCIA INTENDED 70 BUCORT BOSCH TO THE COLOMBIAN BORDER, )
Bi IN DISCUSSING OTHER TERRORIST ACTS: WITH WHICH HIS NAME HAS :
ON LINKED) BOSCH DENIED HAVING SEEN IN ANY WAY ENVCLYED wrry..THE
WURDE: OF FORMER CHILGAN FORBIGN HINTOTER ORLANDO LE TEL TE Re
: Mt wonc tatD TWAT ABPORT® THAT WE HAD INTENDED TO KILL ANDRES
,  oberer. » :



woh

™  laees? 7
. Tora DQ-215/12%b?- A a

WARNING NOTICE i : _ :
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED pace § oF S PAGES a
: SECRET FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO . 7
Has ‘CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
: tatarsineations
| PASCUAL ALLENDE, NEPHEW OF THE LATE CHILEAN PRES IDENT aoe i

SALVADOR ALL END Eo EN COSTA RICA IN FEBRUARY ARE COMPLETELY a
FALSE, UNFORTUNATELY, BOSCH SAID» HE HAS BEEN UNABLE TO CONVINCE
PEREZ OF HIS INNOCENCE WITH REGARD TO PASCUAL. & SOURCE COMMENT!

IT 2S INTERESTING TO NOTE THAT BOSCH STRONGLY DENIED WIS INVOLVEMENT
“IN THE LETELIER CASE AND THE POSSIOLE ATTENPT AGAINST PASCUALy eee ee
WHILE AT THE SANE TINE-NOT DENYING HIS CONNECTION WITH THE CUBANA !
AFFAIR») |
S @) BN DISCUSSING HIS FUTURE, aoscn SAID THAT WE EXPECTS THE '
VGNERUELAN AUTHORITIES TO EVENTUALLY. RELEASE WIN AS THE VENE2UEL ANS '
WAVE NO PROOF AGAINST HIN . -BOSCH SAID THAT HE ts @LD AND TIRED AND -;
WANTS 10 G0 BACK TO SERVE OUT HIS PRISON SENTENCE IN THE UNITED STATES.
FURTHERMORE, BOSCH SAID THAT HE ree FOR WIS LIFE AND MERELY WANTS}
99 @RETEREM IN PEACE, fos
7: BOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS Gosgt A “VEN EUELIN GOVERNMENT “EMPL OVEE
0 HAG ACCESS 70 OFFICIAL REPORTS, HO IS A USUALLY RELIAGLE REPORTER,
“THIS JNPOR MATION JS -NOT To 96 oLscussEo WITH ANY ORELON OFFIC tals

[MGRUDING TH0S8. OF THE VENGEUALAN GOVERNMENT »
ce Oy IN GARLY NOVEMBER, RICARDQ AOHITTED PRIVATELY. THAT wi was ‘prngeruy



Sone

ann itt

 azzas7 ‘
TR B-RSVWAaeA ‘
WARNING NOTICE 2 fo.
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METIIODS INVOLVED PAGE S OFS PAGES ‘: ’
SECRET FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND ‘USE OF THIS INFORMATION suBiect TO
e CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

cotassapeations

WAD CARRIED Ce4 EXPLOSIVE IN HIS POCKETS AND THAT LUGO CARRIED THE
i “TIME PENCIL INSIDE WIS CAMERA, THE BOMB» RICARDO SAID» WAS PLACED ; 7 an
IN ONE OF THE PLANE'S LAVATORIES, - : bee

9, IN ADDITION TO THE 6 OCTOGER BOMBING, RICARDO ADMITTED THAT jie
ME WAS INVOLVED IN AN ATTENPTED GONBING OF A CUBANA PLANE IN PANAMA,
IN THE SUMMER OF 2976, AND ATTEMPT ON A CUBANA PLANE IN JAMAICA, AND i
THE BOMBING OF THE CUBAN GONSULATE IN GUYANA, “ANOTHER BOMBING HAD :
BEGN PLANNED FOR HONG KONG, GUT RICARDO SAID THAT HE: HAD BEEN UNABLE i
TO MAKE THE TRIP, : o,

40, “ACCORDING TO RICARDO, THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY IN VENEZUELA *
WAB APPROXIMATELY 48 POUNDS OF Cas EXPLOSIVES AT.2TS DISPOSAL,
INVESTIGATIONS CARRIED OUT BY VENEZUELAN AUTHORIGPES. TEND. TO. CONFIRN
THIS LAPORMATL ON AND THO VENGHUBLANS “ARE ATTEMPTING To Locate THE
XP. CHIVES, : :

44) FIELD DISSEMD EMBASSY, FO AT.CARACAS! SENT TO: PORT OF
QPAIN, KINGSTON: PANAMA CITY, OG ORGE TOWN», SANTIAGR » HONG KONG,
{REPORT CLASB.6 EC AB Te WARNING NOTICE©SENSI TIVE INTELLIORNCE
- GOUNCES AND METHODS INVOLVEDe=NOT RELGASABLE 16 OREIGN. NATIONAL Bo
_ NOT RELEABABLEE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR / CONSULTANTS: DISBEME Ne

PION AND axraac tt ON oF Lf baal oda CONTROLLED. OY ORIGINATOR
* Milita RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER,” NGPS=S, '

Se S98


‘Sar oo oo
etteeseron perp

SEEREL a -
) a ok
om fLAS uo: * m1 aie pls
~ Glee 7.2, kG</pdo-
Vera.

Te: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTYGaTroNssaTtNt
INVESTIGATIVE DEVESION:Y
_ SCCRET-UARNING: NOTECE-SENSETIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS
1 ENVOLVED--NOT RELEASASLE Te FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO
1 CONRTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS ¥ : ae
sussect:CoonBing OF FORHER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES\
TRAVEL EOF GUTLLERNO Nove To CHILE IN LATE 3974. ¥ i
SO GMES CABLE 1S BAGOEOEY RESPONSE TO RERIUES Tat ADEREMOINORERSE |
PRICELIST ECRLEIEAND A MEMORANDUM: FROM THE
DIRECTOR OF THE FBI, DATED 42 DECEMBER 19%+ FOR INFORMATION CONCERN-
ING FOREIGN TRAVEL OF GUILLERNO ‘ovo AND JOSE DEONESTO SUAREZ. ars |
AGENCY HAS ALREADY FORUARDED TO YOU ABestzetene INFORMATION CONCERNING
moni pacrnsmecrur Novo. :
ds SOURCE OF PARAGRAPH TWO? A VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT : checovee
WHO HAS ACCESS TO OFFICIAL REMPORTS. HE IS A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE.
THES INFORMATION SHOULD: NOT BE DISCUSSED WITH ANY FOREIGN NATIONALSs

mncvuntne 68" e THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT ¥
BATE:

OI IR.

DO HoT IM

* eamamanan era
ea IMP
ih BY' oye

‘ “wuss
euanvonaren |



3

i

ere
T

SECRE th. i
Benes maneuae mmnsaree, rd - + ecanaae aeftanncrmmees

- DIRECTOR

cons: two: muse boseeisteltuieearticli :

0
G673H omer

2. ON 2 DECEMBER 397% ORLANDO feseuam Gurucerno *fove
BOTH CUBAN EXILE LEADERS. TRAVELED TO CHILE FRCA VENEZUELA AT THE”
INVITATION OF THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT. ANOTHER ASSOCIATE OF BOSCH.
gose orontsto 4 u are 2 “esautvel, dzp Not ACCOMPANY THEN FROM |
VENEZUELA BECAUSE HE UAS UNABLE TO GET A VISA TO CHILE AS HE sm. |
HELD CUBAN CITIZENSHIP. ¥. ne

3s THE ABOVE SURFACED DURING A RECHECK OF AGENCY RECORDS. IT
TS BELIEVED THAT YOUR AGENCY HAS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OW THE YA
TRAVEL OF BOSCH TO CHILE. Yo : ees
We CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING orercer. _ NeDs-2-d

BASED ON? 43 DECEMBER We
“ oest a TUKSCARLET~9) ‘

pret 200-12-200/1
oneal

CALA/OPS {L- LASER TN DRAFT?
“ ngespne crony GOLDIN IN DRART?

LAPEB/CHIRR mo qQsnes. 4B. S TELECHOROD |
Descasene’ : LW e pomp
Gabe

Wt C/LA/SB = p PRAET c/LAD
oni eunarnas ie soeoeaenes :

Swatwames REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE

a OF Fi a yr mira “4 bee vmpoer
Ls BYE



<6 an

b osste orc S vee

af SONamuT NOTED,

1
{
1
i
| 1 492519 E1A167 Pace @1 . . 1K 142668
| TOR: 322025F DEC 76 SAGO 35714 i

SECRET 30e20G2 DEC 76 STAFF
CITE SANTIAGO 35714
Tor PRlORITY DIRECTOR,
WNINTEL aY3AT FUDWELL i a
REF: DIKECTOR 951119

a. FOR Tad MOST PART INFO ON LETELIER CASE NO LONGER
FORTHCOMING. 45 PREVIOUSLY REPORTED

LAREAS THAT SHOULD GE
CHECKED ARE INACCESSASLS TO STATION,

2. ALTHOUGH STATION HAS NO HARD EVIDENCE. we SEL IEVE

THAT AIR-F ORCE INTELLIGENCE |

AND ARMY INTELLIGENCE (DINE)

WARRANT & SLOSER LOUK: IN RELATION TO THEIR POSSIBLE
INVOLVEMENT IW LETELIER ASSASSINATION,

: 3. THE FOLLOWING ARE GLEAVINGS ELTcTeD F&M VARICUS
. QOUACES DURING THE LAST FOUR WEEKS?

a THE teh PRATTS. BOMBING TN ARGENTINA WAS



BEM Ne areata

wleue sec 25se¥ B+

REPHOOUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROMIBITED

PERSONTUNIT NOTIFIED,

“1 STAFF ae | : :

ieee es

2 3 : E

ce '

of i '

7 #a19 PAGE 82 i: TH eee ‘
o- " qortso2a252 vec 78 SAGO 35714 aaa
ASSASSINATION DIAS RECUESTED THE VONT. INTELLIGENCE : a

COMMUNITY T] PRCV

DE A FULL CASENG REPORT IN PRaTTS, TO 7
SS IN AUENOS AIRES, HIS DAILY. MOVEMENTS, i

INCLUDE 4IME ADD FE

ETC, (SQURSE: FYIOUBLE*S6), CPRATTS KILLING MENTIONED HERE 7b

BECAUSE OF LEGATT STATEMENT THAT THERE WANY SIMILARITIES

IN PRATTS BOMBING wLTH THAT OF LETELIER CASE.) : : ae Hb
i Sy APOROXIMATELY 2 TO 3 WEEKS PRIOR TO LETELIER sheets

KILLING, ASKED SQURCE RHETORICAL QUESTION AS”

TO WGh ONE WOULD REIMGURSE A WIT MAN, (SOURCE! FUDOUGLE ~58)

: D, ON 29 ‘DECEMBER FUDCUGLE-S6 EXPLAINED POSSIELE ‘
ABASON FOR RAPID COOLING OF ATTITUDE OF INVESTIGATIVE
POLICE (OIRECION GENERAL DG INVESTIGACTONES © DGt) TOWARDS
UsS. EMBASSY AND OGA AGENTS. IMMEDIATELY AFTER LE TELIER
MILLING COL INITIATED INVESTIOATION To CETEAMING ACTIVITISS
OF ORLUNOO BOSCH DURING HIS 1975 STAY IN SANTIAGO,
PUGARGALNeS LGAANGD CF INVESTIOATION AND APO ARENTLY
WAS INSTRUMENTAL IN ORDERS FROM PRESIOGNT!S OFFICE
INGTAUGTING 00! COASM INVESTIGATION. IMMEOEATELY IND aT
CAKE TIME NOT TO OISCUSS CASE WITH ANY AMERICAN © OFFICE AL
OR OTHERWISE, PUCCUGLG=Se CONTINVGS THAT AT PINS 18 KAS

ra aan :



Ae

SEC DISSEw Br vee. TOTA. Cot ES. ute 6

SECRET suns’ serice "5 emowertan.

| T 492519 E1ar67 PAGE C3 IN 142668

TORS3220252 DEC 76 | SAGO 35714

| UNAMARE OF ABOVE ORDERS AND NAVAL INTELLIGENCE | WAS - au
it IN FaCT CONDUCTING ITS OWN INVESTIGATION ON BOSCH. BEFORE A a H
L THEY CEASED WORKING THE case HAD DETERMINED THAT
go sc APPARENTLY HAD EXTENSIVE CONTACTS WTA,

AS MANY HAD PREVIOUSLY BELIEVED) AND IN FACT | WAS
RESPONSIBLE FOR PROVIDING HIM WITH MOST OR ALL OF HIS

FALSE CHILEAN DOCUMENTATION, IN SUPPORT OF ABOVE THESIS

IS PREVIOUS STATION REPORTING CONCERNING REPRESSIVE ACTIONS
| WHICH. WAS: ORIGINALLY THOUGHT To BE WORK OF eut
SUBSEOVENTLY PROVEN TO BE, eee
1. Qy NOTEL APPRECIATE FACT THAT ABOVE NOT HARD”
\CAVIDENCE @UT ALL OF ABOVE WERE DROPPED IN CASUAL

© PPSCUSStOWs ana bus To[ [SENSITIVITIES CASE
“orricen FELT ANY ATTEMPT TO PROBE FOR SPACIFICS WOULD HAVE
AGEN COUNT ERPA DUCTIVE.

1210074 + €2 Impper


THE FOLLWING TNEARMATICN CONCERNING THe SUBIFCT OF THIS 202

SSTER 4AS AEEN EXTRACTED FRM ANOTHER CFFICIAL OF FILES
SONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE O0CUq

ENT FROM MITCH THIS EXTRACT 4AS PREPAFCD CONTAINS A01TTONAC

NFORMATIOY PERTAINING TO.THE SUBJECT AND SHJULD BE REQUESTED —
ROM IP/EILESe

CIOL= 1445/70
23 DEC To

Ca aE iwi



a

» a
i of
: i

So

dou s8 oy

LAER

Ww i
C7 er
W/SB Sco.

en Pe



CAUTION - Blank tor requires
‘secure storage in field.

Chief, LA Division
FUDWELL

ee] iam >

[| received from CoS, :

Wat FiGKeo



H/s Attachment to
HM 180212, 16 Dec 76

Informe, “Novienbre 22 “de_1976

t  taivonrinsen

Respecto a sus instrucciones de indogar sobre les actividades de
Orlando Soch durante sus visitas = Guatemalo, paso.o informarle lo si=
guiente.

€1 Embajador de Costa Rica. en Honduzas, Eduié Séngora, me dijo
(21 de noviembre) que a principios de este afio recibié de su Gobierno
4netrucciones de averiguar cuales eran sus contactos en Guatemala. Dijo
que el propic ministre de releciones exteriores de Costa Rica, Gonzalo
Faccio, le hab{a mostrado un documento procedente de. la CIA (estas fuee
ron sus pelabres) en el cual se demostrabaje que Goch habfa tenido rele-
clones en Guatemala con el hijo del ex-presidente Avene, Jorge Roberto

_ Arena Espafa (Titade

Agrag6 Géngora que era muy probable que @l contacto entre Goch
y Tito Arana se hubiera hecho por medio de los cubanos Gerardo Sampedro
y Moreira, con quienes el sagundo tiene negociaas

Recuerdo que, efectivementa, cuando Géngors me hablé de esta peune
to, © principios de este afio (nga oO manos @n mayo) me mencioné la-circune=
tancia de que Feccio fué e Guatemala pera comunicar al canciller guatamale

_ “taco, Adolfo Moling Orentea, los tenoree dal Gobierno eosterricansa por
> Jes actividades de Boch. Géngora record’ en nucatra. Gitime convarsacién

que tel visite hapfe coineigite con @l etantedo de que fué victime Tite
Brtne y quo: inclusive. se mencioné que una coea y ls otre podrfen ector
selebtonedest sus contactos con Goch y ol atantadde
Comenté Géngora*también que Tite Arena hole frecuentes viojes @

posible -dijo= que,biers hecha amistad ‘con otros cubancs
anticnstristas reaidentes. alif,

Agragé Géngore qua cuando oe ie somunted de parte de‘ su.goblerno.
a asunte, recuerda haber ecoucheds que @l otra hijo. del expreaidente
Arana (Cerlitoe): tambifan astaba relectonado con les sctividedes sutveraives
Contre Odube: Comenté que Cariitos es aviador.y. pudn haber ofreoide ayuda.
aeraa, madiente. aus amigas que tiene en tee Faq,

: Dice Qénpore que Facoio le nenotond tambian ts , panibt tdnd de que
Booh hubsere tentde conaosién con el viosnresiilente quatenaltsco, Mario Sane
dovel Alercén, pero qui cureote de‘prumbes sabre ellos Me dijo ahora qué
a dicta Laugerud le ofrecté « Feccto poner freno a cane actividades y



weer

aoe ENO

Jo que supone que Laugerud cumplié su promesa. Cree Gfngora que desde entonces |
(mayo de este afio) Boch no volvié 6 Guatamala.

‘ 2) asian) .
{ zi ° bd Set |
H que desde enconces no ha recibido ninguna otra instruccién de su Gobierno, por rt



FBI DOCUMENT
DATE: 15 DECEMBER 1976
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: UELANDO BOSCH AVILA» PAROLE VIOLATOR

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (MIAME)



FROM SECSTATE WASHDC (STATE 303801)
DATE: 15 DECEMBER 1976
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: REQUEST TO INTERROGATE BOSCK



ear!

2

“ive ripeee mentees net ener

Cape sec oisse

ernson Sie esreics,

PaGe 01

T 457046 Elscag

IN 1295203
TORI1619052 DEC 75 ___ spom 17922

SECRET 1416452 Dic 76 STAFF
“SITE SANTO DOMINGO 17922

TQ: DIRECTOR, Caracas,

WNINTEL MHSPIKE

REF: Caracas 3e9c7CIN ONBECE)

de at 13, DECEMSER MEETING, EMFETCHSS CIDENTITY | uel CARACAS)

SAID HE HAD BEEK TOLD "ay aN ACTIVE SUPPORTER OF cous Maal
PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES ER EZ CF VENEZUELA WAS :
KNOWLEDGEABLE AND IN FAVOR OF CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST ACTIONS,
UNNAMED SOURCE FEELS PEREZ TURNED ON ORLANDO BOSCH BECAUSE. HE :
PEARED BECOMING TARRED. BY INTERNAT! ONAL PRESS WITH COMPLICITY
IN CUBAN RIGHTIST ACTIONS, SOURCE “SELLEvEs" CORU, MAY
“TAKE AEPRISAL ACTION AGAINST VENEZUELA BECAUSE GF BOSCH

ARREST» = - | * : eee
2) GMraTcHe Nas ASKED Te GUERY SOURCE ON HIE KNOWLEDGE OF
FUTURE CORU PLANNING) (STATION BELIVES EMPETCNSE'S SOURCE

1 nttaea | |
aeyerazigss 2e19209z02. :

to IMPDET

id PELE COPY POW

SLL Oe

00 ie DecanOY


Coereeraa

oe Ti 2) Gaamge Ceo 8 og
o oO

. ry
oy a a a” Fy 6:
peer ‘

a ¢€
PES teuCHRe eet i"

mestncd manoymcmecaron care ree mee wressesenrearncemencs ” :

'
| a
le a clLag wo: mua els, cfsal’ hres go ese
| Cfesfirca, A poo ;Yomsg.t m= renSof’
| C/CL

Oenn 2/32. ; ;
TO: FEDERAL: BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIONV/ATTN: R- K- MCHARGUE/GENERAL

ERg

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION-¥ : i i
| J SECRET-UARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS : ~
| -INVOLVED--NOT RELEASASLE TC Aauiinet NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO :

CONRTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS ¥

_ SUBJECT: BOMBING OF FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR 0 THE UNITED STATES’
“PRAVEL BOF GUILLERNO ine TO CHILE IN LATE wz. ¥

e

THIS CABLE IS pathos RESPONSE 7 FOREAUE Sect OORMOERDET —
ECO REED A MEMORANDUM FROM THE
DIRECTOR OF THE FBI. DATED 27 DECEMBER 187. FOR INFORMATION ‘CONCERN-

“ING FOREIGN TRAVEL OF GUILLERMO NOVO -AND JOSE DIONZSIO SUAREZ. THIS
AGENCY HAS ALREADY FORWARDED TO YOU ABDETROMHE INFORMATION CONCERNING
snofgucrnsmecsor NOVO. ; ;
be SOURCE OF PARAGRAPH. THO! A VENEZUELAN ovennricnt EMPLOYEE
'WHD WAS ACCESS TO OFPICEAL REBPORTS. HE IS A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE. j

"RMZS INFORMATION SHOULD NOT BE DISCUSSED wrth ANY. FOREIGN NATIONALS»
rncwuatic Bees" oP THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT: ¥

a

eaneonetan cores ere orate

MEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE.ISSUING OPPICE 18 PRONIBITED impoer
; aon ouansa



OF pat enti ee nee nee

ite emean comme ues,

~~ ee we rare)
onr oo 9 0 o a i) a 2 2
euntaeeanien
|. SECRET : :
|S giaet nacee mneaten eres ence 7 cemenmenecccnmmee = :
DIRECTOR ; i
* conr: INFO: FILE O moe rssemar: . ; A :
OD  nomeee
GEIBW am ’
Denn #

i
{

2. owe DECEMBER L974 ORLANDO 8 0 SCH AND GUILLERMO NOVA mere

goth CUSAN EXILE LEADERS. TRAVELED TO CHILE FROM VENEZUELA aT THE 1

* INVITATION OF THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT. ANOTHER ASSOCIATE OF BOSCH, | f
JOSE DIONISIO SUAREZ ESQUIVEL, DID NOT ACCOMPANY THEN FROM i .
VENEZUELA BECAUSE HE WAS UNABLE TO GET’A VISA TO CHILE AS HE STILL
HELD CUBAN CITIZENSHIP. ¥. a 7

eee B+ THE ABOVE SURFACED DURING A RECHECK OF AGENCY RECORDS. IT

“ES BELIEVED THAT YOUR AGENCY HAS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THE 888

TRAVEL, OF BOSCH TO CHILE. ¥ :

4. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING but ei XGDS-2-4

43 DECEMBER Ab
WKSCARLET {UKSCARLET-93
oBut J :

ZLE1- 200-22-200/1,
aoi-299e%2

“"GAA/OPS CL. LASER IN. DRAPT?
AGE/DDO STONY GOLDIN IN’ DRAPTD
E/NUA (Bs ACHELLES,TELECOORDD

7

R
aN73
ch DC/LA/PNC
hed ah ON" CALASB IN DRAFT

sae here
REPRODUCTION BY omen wna ™ vesuine CPFICE 16 PROHINITE!

C farvmy

C/LAD

mrrenhae Boner

a iMPour



wom

“OUTGOING MESSAGE |
on - 18-2
seme t OL

cS a a |

DO cinenre PER

SECRET : ‘ i
i. STAFF ‘ B3257 oe / qsu2s0 p te ;
UEALAS wens vax Poforig, Pst neg 9m sate: i.

| TO: MANAGUA.¥ :
“WNINTER KMSTONE MHSPIKE ¥.

| “REP! MANAGUA 22637 ITN 3392051, ¥

| 7. Ae BELIEVE SUBJECT PARA CAP REF IDENTICAL TO ERNESTING CERNESTO?

cecruro A&B RE U-HORTA {203-327Lb4} BORN 33 NOVEMBER L424 IN
“ AMARILLAS. MATANZAS)-CUBA. CUBAN CHENIST WITH LONG ASSOCIATION UIT
Rovanzento DE RECUPERACBION REVOLUCIONARIA {RR - CUBAN COUNTER-. —
REVOLUTIONARY GROUP} DURING EARLY 25L0'S. WAS MRR COORDINATOR IN
WATANZAS PROVINCE WHERE HE ORGANIZED GUERRILLA NOVENENT PRIOR TO BAY
OF. PIGS INVASION. MANAGED TO ESCAPE ARREST/ CAPTURE BY CASTRO FORCES
+ THROUGH ASYLUN IN VENEZUELAN EMBASSY, YAVANA- FIRST ARARIVED IN U.S.
“AT ATAMT ON 20 AUG b2 AFTER TWO MONTH i IN VENEZUELA... POA GRANTED
2-AUG G2 FOR INTENDED USE AS MEMBBER MRR INFILTRATION TEAM. INTO
ORZENTE. CUBA BUT AZAMY STATION DECIDED SUBJECT MORE PANILIAR WITH
WATANZAS PROVINCE THAN TARGET AREA. POA REINSTATED 27 JUN ©3 TO ALLOW
JASTC TRADECRAFT AND PARAMILITARY. TRAINING WITH VIEW TOWARDS MAKING

UBUECT TRAINING INSTRUCTOR POR MRR CADRE. IN OCTCOER 443 SUBJECT
RAVELED TO ee WHERE HE ESTABLISHED TWO ARR CAMPS AND TRAINED
F Deereriss ’ 5

deeeenunnn srnanne rwarmearons oovase
REPRODUCTION GY OTHER THAN THE IEEUING GPFICE ID PRONISITED, gg = IMPORT
u ci : €L 8Y; OebO%0-



“OUTGOING MESSAGE” ~
‘ Be :

| ‘| 7 Mona conten vse o,

ee-seee

a o a ti) o

om io
: DIRECTOR 7 u

(eevenae eureeemce mmees,

we” Otssem ev:
somes bo
neve POR ¢ } ‘

989280

“300 CUBAN EXILES: HE REPARTED NICARAGUA FOR MIANI ON 22 APR BS AFICR
i ‘RECEIVING ORDERS FROM MANUEL ARTIME ¢secy GEN MRR?.TO ABANDON
ALL ARR ACTIVITIES SINCE PLANS TO OVERTHROW' CASTRO REGINE HAD Con-

PLETELY FAILED. THERE NO FURTHER REPORTING IN FILE OR EVIDENCE oF
RENEWED AGENCY CONTACT UITH SUBJECT.

a

BA7L NICARAGUAN TELEPHONE. bI-
RECTORY LISTS SUBJECT RESIDING MANS TEIDELINDA 3¢ S 270 AND Teve+
PHONE NO. @-b@bO.. NO INFO AVAILABLE IN FILE INDICATING suguect IS ues. i
PERSON AS DEFINED UNDER E, 0. 22905. ¥

@. THERE ARE BNO IDENTIFIABLE HEADQUARTERS TRACES | ON ALBERTO
CRESPO MOLINA. ¥ :

La/Connent: » ReauesteD TRACES ON TWO CUBAN EXILES LIVING IN
NICARAGUA. . : 7

i
9 aprrenee som

Ont.

UNIT) GAT TIBCATIZON
R043

he barco Ow,
6 om " ervessare cre Cth AT og, (3

teenemaring ermine
_
CRET

AEPRODUGTION BY OTMER THAN THE IBBUING OFPiGK icp oFiaiTEe. ioe POR
a by) aeeong

Sere



1382 DEC 5 STare
CUTE managys 12647
102 pincctge,

: WN rey Ream MMS PLg

REFt eaNacus 126679 256) .

aw

Gey A0Dey THAT hie HAD ong Cater 800 tay ‘CONtacr With
Ww MANAGUA, ANG ALSO KNEW Tar FRANK CaS tag Paa wag -



REPRODUCTION By omen than,
MBBUING OF MCE WB pmomIBITED

T 429301 Elaa7.

PAGE ¢ 2= 32 - UN 109865

TOR? 2321572 NEC 76 MANA 12627 ey Z

* ON* ISLAND ASSET AT THE TIME OF THE BAY OF PIGS
TNVASION WHG TOOK ASYLUM AFTER THE OPERATION

FAILED, HE 1S CURRENTLY RUNNING ALCE PLANTATIONS

AND PROCESSING PLANTS BELONGING TO THE ERACORN=d

Famteys i

B. ALBERTO CRESPO MOLINA: SELF-EMPLOYED
RICE WOBEER, ;

4, FILES 2235271766, zad-299292, 2. 1NPDET,


i i {

fe -— | wigs |
{ EEEEM Cuban Extremists in us. ie _
A GROWING TERROR THREAT ’
P

Out from Miami spreads a wave of vio-

fence. Terrorists’ alm is to topple Castro, free He major: .
Cuba, Nearly all Cuban rofugees share this ai ls rabctoeecct eet aee a tee edeee Ee
dream. But-the acts of a few zealots create - why they ene to 8 : :

why they came to Miamt in
the first place, They are ule
taw-abieing eltizewe whe, with

ne eveettons, manifest
iti te Castro le

trouble for fellow exiles and fur the U.:

: Reperted from
MIAMI and WASHINGTON

dh rotten hun become a thorny
problein in the conduct forehan pmticy and, tu the

Mow of soine authortien x potenti theeat to the lives of
“American leaders,

lividualy whow
i Peli Minive
ter Fidel Gavteo ane Goma:
adem “has fed them te engage

n catruleyal actions und to
viulate the laws af th

‘Tho torrorists’ goal bs to Weert control of Cuba away from
ta Communist dictator, bite Castro,
Tn pursuit of that goal they have blvd a trail of v
2+ from Miamd cross the Carthhoun Sia, tit only to Q
also to Mestco, Hurtsstca, Jamie and Banat

Geeta leader is acevied a
plane bombing fatal to 73.

—
A

front, Une EHNA ARRAAY A. 8 LANE.

‘the Blouth-Athintic. to Aruetins

have engages ti a xerlen ef banibiiun tu the U.S. and:

b They have curr out nullttuey-ntyle attacks on

Earnie sign "They ues aeonaly mec of ever

A letra fred ry Sto venti ho ae
onan te

we a

Fiabe preparer to luke over i

© Warhington, it be feared thud the Cuibi terrorist will atop up
7 their attue M

mat effort to thivart any tun toward recaneill-

40,

rillar With Uheie operations warn that ume of

MroHINY WHHL Alp a tuallthng, wot ever at
pubrre of Hh Chirlop Addutinisteatt

avant

ud Wy hw Contra intel
When hie country wan trying to:
fall in,

t
Woriate: friterinnl Kevurity Nubeonntiten: recently: held:
0 hw ih:
hy from ba. “Hluntne f

vr
wyatt of the Dale” can Ty Art

County as a bare for international terrarisin i
governments allied with Cuba, Cohan. skipping, Commu
wists, purported Communists and individuals who take.
stand against their terrarist.type attucks .
ne Cuban groupe paurperting to be jnvalved tn terrae
Intype uttucks ugatiet the Cub WUE EE HO“MOT
wre no tess thant outright criminals, foodies upon Ue Coline
iting the collected funding for thete ove

Olher investigators charge that the lrrrintn, to fn
thefr erisade, bave dealt iy eocatie and prestitutton anc:in
ceatortion from sculthy follow rofagves,

The tuinbve of hardcwme terrorists 69 aul, offal
entinated at-fewer-thaie JOO, Heit thetr react by Witte, La thie
your alone they have elthor brigged alent of hoon weoueed
of auch we

© Machi
Ca

eqn attacks on the, hiqh ewe again voecete
and ether Conmmundst ations,

wa wie varlely of targets in dat United Blutes,
fatin a wid

° ‘yh ban aud the eran of a Cobian
Airlines phan sear Hark

Gotaher 1, with ie-low of
TAliven,
Pom veyed tA tant tah ceuth af



Beene tenn cneen open

eos ~
\ 7

if

EXILES vs. S
CASTRO—

A Relentiess
eee Pursuit

Highlights of events in those 18 years, some
involving lawabiding exiles, others involving the
extremiste—

906%: A 1,300-man Cuban Brigade, armed and
tained by tho U.S. in Florida, Guatemala and Nica-
ragua, landed at the Bay of Pigs on Cuba's south
shore. The invasion was a failure,

‘Survivors of the Bay of Pigs were released
‘by Castro after payment of a 53-million-dollar ran-

in Miami, pledged to the Cuban.
rigade flag would one day fly over @

tw ! tained
: to shake the island’s economy. The attacks
failed.

19641 Cuban extremists in New York City fired a

- mertar sholl at United Nations as Cuba's‘ Ché Gue-
addrested the General Assembly.

19871 Cuban exile specialists and US.-trained

of his Communist guerrillas in Bolivia,
. 4888-78) Cuban-cxile extremists bombed ships:
of nations to bo friendly to Castro, ter
‘ferized othor exiles to keep them in line:
187i Cuban calles trained by Contral Intell.
gence Agency took part in Watergate break-in, luter
testified that they thought it would help their antl
‘Castro cainpaign.
40791 US, cid Cubs signed dgreniment aimed at.
39 eonteolling hiack!ag of alrcraft and piracy of ships

‘ena.

1074-76: Cuban oxtren:ists expludod more thant
$00 bomba in Minit area in two-year period, hitting
LY, offices of tho FHI, a Stute attornuy and the Mia
polico department.
Aorresiate attacked airline offers und conus
atea of gover that have diplomatic relations
« With Cantera, I wt took plice tit Jainmicn, Mexte
“9 Portiiyal, uorte Htieo, Panatns, other countries,
q ching heate Iusod in Cute and Aoviet cargo,
z shia wore attacked by hidhepoad inctor luunohos

P manned by exile ontremista,
1 Tortus reached We pou with tha binnl sabotage
2D ofa Cuban aleliner and the death of 7 ete
crow lat Getohor @. near tar "
tolaod Cuban exiles tn Caracas, Veneain
lan of Invalvenont tithe eabatage, €
k Galed Ut-Ciubs hijacking agreement,

© they operate? And why are U.S. officials so concerned about

tom in drugs, medical ment and other
from “private contbutions President |

Bolivian troom trapped. and killed Guevara and”
fenio

~

CUBAN EXTREMISTS  *

{Contmued rom prececing pogo) E A
a former Chilean Aimbassador in Washington, D.C. on Sep: i
lember 21.

Kidnaping two Cutun officials in Argentina
© Attempting tu kidnap a Cuban consad in Me
Who atv these terrorists? What motivates them:

what they may do in the future? :

To answer such questions Orr Kelly and Carl J. Migduil of ‘
the US News & World Report stait dug deeply into the 7
records, interviewed Cuban refugees who share the hopet at
though not the methods of the terrorists, and talked to law
enforcement officials who are trying to stem the violence.

BREEDING GROUND FOR TERRORISM t
After Fidel Castro tock over Cuba in 1959 and it became
apparent that he intended to establish uminrist ‘state.
{800,000 Cuban “voted with their ‘feet™ and fled their
W000 of them settled in the United i
States. They and thei children now total 750,000, Most of ,
them live in the Miami area. 7
mujority of these: inueigrante are kaw abiding. But
Minmi’s “bitte dtavana” provides a culture in which the 7
views of viblence cui grow. ; : 7
“Iv Miami,” explains ane refugee leader, “the Cubans
keep. their initional identity, their heritage, traditions.
hatredseand their hopes of gaing buck to their homeland.
And they know they-can't go buck wntit Castro is gone. So

they dream of topplit..¢ Castro. What is clearly unreatistic in H
aiher places in the United States soems very posable in the
atmosphere in Mimi”

An the carly Litits, the overthrow of Castro seemed to the © 1
‘Cubans in exile to be not only posible but almost inevitable.
Twas U.S, policy to drive him from power. There was on
attempt to uvude Cuba at the Hay of Pigs in 1861 with an
Grmy of Guban exites recruited and trained in sceret by the 24"
CIA. The invaders were nat given the air cover necesury for) f
@ succensfil attack, and the operation was a disaster. Only ae
180 of about L.JU0 invaders escaped deuth or capture. The
‘Cubans felt betrayed. Et

cue other American moves against Castro, There

Was a aceret “Operation Mongoose,” which inehided efforts

to umaneinute the Cuhan loader, The United States backed an 7
cconomie blockude of Cuba in un attenipt to prevent Castro

from obtaliing surely nevded supplies and equipment (ron

broad, Later, Cuban refugees were ied to carry aut score

Huna-not only in the Caribbean but alse tiv other parts

Latin Ainerictmand even in Arica,

To many Calan eefagees, attacking Caster aad Comeau
titan beeuttie a way: af life, : Es

Since then, haweyer, Atwerleut policy has tatledd to matel
AW In tensity Une Rerer anttCastea poesia oF the anere: ntl:
tant refigoun: In recent) years)
AUK, Renute nave visited Cuba. oe
Karoemnenit willy the United: Staten te °
Nivekors whi had ty ‘Cah: ae alin, There were
smoves on bath ald arth normalization of relations bes

i fe hopes af Amertean
somo Cutan tefageon turned to vie
Wan cot els frage givers the ebrantidagy: of ate

‘TERRORIST LEACEAS AND TACTICS

“howl tote vitinnbers ace small, the Hi ap fewer active:
Forrortale Ive arwinizcd thermselvee: inte -tnany grata,
flown cf eee grencype chalked cee thet wate (iy "Daitle dtaeana
Wo Haraly toque te fade before they ure replaced by the



slogans and initials of yet another group.
named in testimony before the y
Subcommittee are: Accion Cuban ‘Alpha
86, a name adopted when victory in 1966 seemed possible:
FUNC, standing for Frente de Liberacion Nacional ile Cuba,
which means Cuban National Liber: and
tistas, which means what it
A group calling itself Zero
tnarked for and, according to officials, several persons
‘6a the list soon died violent deaths.

County's antiterrorist head. Licutenant Lyons, says
the has stopped trying to keep track of the groups und instead
concentrates on, trying to solve the crimes that they are
suspected of having committed. He has no shortage of
business. Here is a sample of the violence attributed to
terrorists in the last two.years:

® Since February, 1975, there have been ut least seven

xroups
ecurity,

s.
” of people

men were shot to death. One was killed by u bomb. Three
caster lost both legs below the knces when a bomb ripped his

ar apart.

'® On Dec. 3-4, 1975, bombs blasted the Miamt office of the
Federal Burcau of Investigation, a Social Security ‘office,
State unemployment office, two post offices, 0 bank, a State
‘atiorney’s office and the Miami police-department heudquiar-
ters. A man accused of those bombings, and also the bombing
Of the Miami International Airport two months earlier, was
‘acquitted recently in a
ina State court. Fi

* A number of bombs have been exploded in New York.
‘One blow out the window of the Venezuclan consulat
Fifth Avenue, across the street from St. Patrick's I

© On Feb. 12, 1976, a Sovict freighter, the Dzhondane
Bruna, was sitting motiontcss 35 miles off:

tacod close to the freighter and raked it with heavy machine-
xn fire. No one was injured.

© On April 6, 1976, two Culian fishing boats were attacked
‘and a fisherman was killed.

ill
® On° 21, 1076, in Washington, D.C., a bomb ex-
‘4.0 cor and killed Orlando Letclier, a former Chilean
to tho U.S. under the Marxist regime of tho lute
Preaident Sulvador Allende. Although the crime ts lead
|, there have beon persistent reports that the bon
va planted by Cubsn tezrorite asa “fuvor™ te the xccrot

» gative of the present anti-Communist Government in Chile.

NEW TERRORIST STRATEGY:
‘Lenders of tha torrorist bunds aro hurd to identify. Hut une
an has emerged as an apparent lender: De: Orlane Horch,
4 peal rela, to was catight firing a barookn at a Polish
ship in Miata harbor in 196H sel wn sentenced to 10 youre

a.
p Noch was relcusod.on parole ufter four yours, but he

: reportedly returned to the movement. ilo is now wor
errent in Venexuola, charged along with three other men in”

Connection with the Culun aleliner-bombing. Vr, Nosh tx
Sororfied aa the loader of tho group cutting lnelf Accion
Na,
June of this year, De. Hosch called! a sinell penny of hie
pelt! otiviels tegetlior In the Domintean Hepublic, They
were sharply cliviied on prolly une atrategy,
Manto to avid tho rk of further attacks tn the
United Rlaies and ta conconteate their e(farte ngutiunt Cantea
Guteide this country, Others hold aut for continuing their
ollvition hatte hove ariel abreast,
After a heated argument, a slicky agremmnsnt wus couched

ued © (nm n arenas

other attempted killings faiied, but a prominent radio broad- . ~

‘court, He is to.be tried again |

‘Cuba's north coust ©
ita tanks were being cleaned, Suddenly a small boat -

assassination attempts directed against refugee leaders who.
+ were viewed as opLonents of the terrorists’ tactics. Three

Automobile bombing that killed 3 Cuban refugee in Mibmi
of many unsolved crimes attributed to

to focus their efforts outside the US. To direet the activities,

1 English. :
luwenforeement officials say that members of
CORY have the backing of powerful forces, perhaps even
the governments themselves, in some countrics-of Latin
Ammericu. The terrorists ure described as “ut home” in: Huiti,

the Dominican Republic, Nearagua and Chite. They are well

armed for terroristie ucts, as shown in the box on page 32. \
Since the June mecting, a new Wave of terrorism kas swept
across the Caribbean and beyond: Rombs have. damuged.

| Gabou ating fuelites tw Marbudes, Jamaleaand Pansims, °

Cubun officials were kidnaped inArgentina. 2. 2-3
‘On July 23, three men who had flown from Miami carrying,
thres caffco cins filled with plustie explosive attempicd to;

Kidnap Cuban Gonsil Duniet Pores Fernandez-is Mérida,

‘Cubana Airlines DG-8 exploded in flight shortly after
tuking off from urbados. The plane fell into the sca, kil

ing
7p persons inelucting members of the Cuban national feacing
mn. .

t

Ih memuges to nows media, both CORU and El Condor, a:
group unheurd of ly, claimed responsibility for the *
cerush of the plane, i

Dr. Bosch, whio hus traveled freely on documents uppurs +
ently provided by officials of Goveruments friendly to the. {
ANtL-Castro movement, “as picked up in Veriezucla and on =
November 2 war charted with. le In councetion with

© tho pline crish. ‘Theeo other men ure siuilurly charged.

‘Tho arrerts. of Drs Bosch ane. bis eoborts, instewd of -,
reclucting terrorint violmies, untuy actually stinmdate mare
violence, M4 Condor, tn a inessage: tothe United Prone
International an November Wk eal tie four men held by the |
Veneruclans ary thinocont and: warned thats if they are
convicted, pani ofthe Venezia
will be attacked: Or the rate day, CORU.
saylng At would Join with the Hendin AntLCommunint
Alllaniee fv. dttucks on three airlines: that. plan excursion: |
Mighty to tlavutut,

Hoberte Carhallo, a militant toader af vetoriis of the Wi
of Piis invasion, eenmmerd. the threatened attacks. “NL wide

Caatro hy taking all Cuban exttos took. like mad bombers,”
Garhallo with : : :

QRACKOOWN BY LAW OFFICERS

Minco lat apritig, there, tae heer a sharp eechootion in”
Anreariatio Viole iy Hee Aliant area. That may lie ae much
dive te a euccematul cc



CUBAN EXTHEMISTS

[continued from preceding page)

includes representatives from Dade County and Miami po-
fice, the U.S. Customs Service. and the US. Burcait of
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Although the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation is not formally a part of this task force,
its agents work closely with it. :

With co-operation from Cuban refugees who are sick of

«the terrorist violence, law. officers have arrested a number of

Police also have learned enough about other sus-
pects so that their freedom to engage in new acts of violence
‘can be limited even though there is not enough evidence to
prosecute them.“ :,

‘A federal grand jury is interrogating witnesses who might
have some knowledge of terror operations.

Efforts of law-enforce-nent officials to deal with the terror-
{st groups face formidabie handicaps, however: The terrorists:
seem to know what police are doing. Licutenaint Lyons...

relates that one suspect “identified one of my officers who
had never met him before, called him by name und told him
‘what section he worked in and what his duties were.”
Terrorists are protected by a web of old loyaltics. Most of
them worked at one time or another for. the U.S. ‘Govern-

ment. Many have’ had several roles: members of. the U.S...

‘Army, CIA operatives and FEI informants. One refitgee
leader suggests that law-enforcement officials have not found
the killers of Cubans “because they don’t want to.”

‘A further complication is the: heavy infiltration of the..
it. by. members of Castro's :Intelligeitce

‘agents to reveal their pattern of opcration. Karly this years
fe cuample, Manusl do Armas, a Cuban refugee who was
‘named in Senate committee testimony as having been in-
‘volved in terrorist activities in Miami, showed up in Havana,
In an April 22 broudcast by Radio Mav una, Do Armas said
that he had supplied the explosives used in tho killing of a
man named Masferrer and that'a CIA agent had
provided him with the explosives,

Tn'a speech on October, 18. Castro boasted of ¢ doubts

agent who Castro claimed hud passed on coded Instructions —

TERRORISTS’ ARSENAL:
PLANES TO CANNONS. me
a of th tary oud A father sie ef el Cita, Au

that a ae to a tip a he amr banene frssitrel biy Mi
vit" ie partial inventory cum aint lauwenfurement a finr At
Sil by outhortien ‘rere ee

@ 1 BO.mm cennon, with: 100: rounds of

tanks for extra rango e
Anumber of amall, apotler excratt titencers
Lerge-caliber recotiess nities, ‘explouive:
‘Minele-aniilank weapons 9,868 pounds
‘Wide assortment of emailer weapons 01 ray
lage bain ot + oh devel:

‘The Cuban Prime Minister has “surfaced” cnough of such.

ptonive ammurvtion
2 submachine guna, 480 of thom wih

daviset
of dynamite and THT
palm

o

from the CIA,

From the very mament when he
was recruited by the

sind over a period of 10 years. the
supposed agent has kept the Cuban Goverment fully in-
formed of all his contacts with (the CIA] and of the equip-

ment and instructions he has Fecch
for the airliner bombing and other
2 “Who else biit the CIA. . . can curry out

these acts?” Castro asked. = 2"
Sceretary of State Henry Kissinger has flatly denied U.S.
‘involvement in the-airliner. bombing. He: said: “I can state,
categorically that no official of the United States Covern-
ment, nobody paid by the American Government, nobody in
contact with the Aincsican Government has had anything to
do with this crash of the airliner, We consider actions like this

__ totally reprehensible.”

The CIA declines to discuss Cuban refugee terrorist. -

“Officials of other Government, agencies say they seriously:

doubt that the CIA, after all the criticism it has received for,
some of its carlicr, activities, is still invelved in operations
‘against the Castro regime, However, the agency is desei
as providing very. tittle help in combatting the

groups. “We fiave absolutely no contact with the CIA,” suys
Licutenant Lyont “I'd like to, but Uscy don’t talk to us." One
reason for that attitude may be thot laws bar the CIA from
domestic law-enforcement uctivitics,

‘Other laws, or the lack of them; also complicate the fight
‘against the terrorists, U.S, agencics cannot become involved
An investigations of terrorism outside the Uriited States untess
tho crime involves violations of nicutrulity laws making It
legal to conspire in this country to commit crimes ubrond oF
to cxport arms without a license,

‘Although shocked by the October'6 airliner bombing, U.S.
offtcials reluctantly decided there wus no authorization for
the FUL (0 enter that ene. :

‘With such hundicaps as these, law-enforcement offcials say
they cun look f rd to only limited success against the
terrorists, Any.ccal solution to the problem mist come from
within the Cuban refugee community—and investixators
state that the co-operation they yet there daca not extend to
cases of violence committed outside the.U.S, i

WHAT HAVE TERRORISTS GAINED?
As offleiale. size up the: effects of the terrorist
‘Tho only tangible eccomplishment has been to push Cs
: into renouncing the antihyacking
efforts Wor
a diplomatic recinettiation bo
tweon the United Stator une! Guba,
Bonito all the terrorist plots and
Hacks, Cavtee remuinastirily sate

ges alinedt (nevttable that the
auent torvartd Aone kindof we:
eummodation with Cartre will be
routed by American policy: mabe
ore, Throwgheaut “Little Muvara”
=pho.four tw wideepreadl that Jinn
“Garter, when he beeen Froeds
ont, will give now finpatie-te thie.
movement, and that thelr hosielend
will never bo liberated from Come
raat rule,
affictate andl Crilan refute
tee that
tho torruriste will continues thety ate
tempi
opart t4 the only methad they
Kinweefurther ate of viulonce.

8. NEWS & WORLD REPOAT, Deo:



Seiten EaROE SE

f

| Vi. 17 Hov 76 “8 VENEZUELA

7 the ‘Senate created @ commiseton to investigate terrorist activities, conspiracies to i
Gisrupt order and disrespect for authorities, * f :

a ected the commission wil) also submit to the Sanate a bill to regulate the activities of the : :
t ‘exile organizations and persons not subjoct to the control of the state, #

senator Hermogenes Lopes stated that the coimisaion should also investigate the "300 ,
‘Qubans Who form part of the Cuban Enbasey in Venomuela.” c

Organizations of exiles from Cuba, Bolivis, Chile, Uruguay, Argentina, Pereguay, pein
+ and Portugal are currently operating in Caracas.

yotria EVE in: spanish 153% eT 16 Nov 76 PA

ey
at
; CUBAN ANTI-CASTRO LEADER DENIES ACCUSATIONS

{rext] - carecas, 16 Kow-the enti-Castro leader orlando Bosch, eategortoeriy denied be
\ ~ pad planned the assassination of 0.8. Secretary of state Winry Kissinger, of Coste 7
\ Rican Poreign ACfaire.Winister donsalo Facto and of Pascal Allende and his girl “friend, \

Boach's denial was: conveyed by his lawyer Francisco Leandro Hore, vho enid that his
Gefentant “hever talked to Facio and-that when Pascal Allende Grrived in. Cost® Rica,
Bosch had. deen in this country for 40 days." | Penerar .

Booch saids: "Even Af, they try to make we-todk ithe. profeistoni hoodlum, Zan &
entlemin Who respects sgreenente,” By this he mesnt that "he cage to venesusia
sponsored by som influential persondlition," Nore pointed cut. ae

Nore also said; “As a polttseten,, Beach e111 dees not understand what thy piet is i

Qgainst hin, in which Fidel's invelligence services ahow an interest in Kissinger!s accsica?,
Life and OTA agents are trying to destroy O11 those struggling ageinst the. Cuban reginas"

Wore added that Bosch cleine that he perscnaily doen nod imow Rolundo Obere,
Quban, also hired to kill Kissinger, secording to reporte from Miami, bub that "ne

&
z
F



i VE. 17 Hov 76 MEXICO nL 4

PCO ERADER ACCUSES U.S. OF INTERVENTION IN L.A, seerred ; we

Havana Donestic Service in Spanish 0000 GMT 17 tov 76 ML

frext] Pct. Central Committee marber Raul Valdes Vivo, who ts porticipating as a guest in
| the opening conference of autum courses of tie Sonmol of Eonoxy of tie lational Autono~
1 mous University of Mexico, said in a lecture ha gave today that the United States has
Antervened in Latin Ansrica with troops and capital.

ghie yearte autum courses of the Mexican university deal vith the topic “World economy

‘and sooia clunges," In his opeach, the ahtef of the PCC Central Comittee Foreign Rela~
ions Geneve) Department pointed out that Mexico es a people and as a country has always
defended tro right of the Cuban people to choose its own path. ;

Valdes Vivo anid that. Cuba is building true socialise since it ‘began to follow o pro-
eens different from the one being followed to ¢ by tho other countries of the.contin=
ent, &.process which mkes the right to Af-determination 2 corso! use for the reat: of
fatin-Amrica. Internationaliem and ite practice, Valdes Vivo said tn his speech, has
Qlways beon directed at--from the days of thé Paris commune to the Spanish Civil War and. -
to the Angulan conflict--giving support to peoples who struggle with thoir own. strength
for the continuation of their own history and against forces that have come from abroad
sens dy Che enendes of vhose peoples. . :

xperted; nevertheless, ‘the United States
{to dollaro and has. taken part of
of mxico. on

*\\:Waldes Vivo aftirmd that revolutions cannot be
| ua Antorvencd in Latin Arerion with ite troops
i #aubeeu the territories of som countries, as in the

‘poatsco OLty INPONMEX in Spanish to ANSA Bueros Aires 2133 OIC 16 wow 76-PL"

(text) Wexice city, 16 Hov (ANSA--INPORMEX)<<“the Mexican state does not
te the Worker, peasant and popular sectors)

Suppers and trad is why dhe government i not etre:

Pernanden, secretary of the presidency of the republics. who asked al) Mexicans. to 0

Listening to the rumore tree are being spread throughout the country.

QOVERKIMUT HAS SUPPORT OF TH WASEKS, SAYS OVALLE

Zn sdotemants mde price te the opening ceremony of the firet Anbernational conference on
© §he fandiy, which 43 being held. in this onpital, valle Vernandes warned that, in view of
the eensolidation of the popular bave, any aggression of the: ntnarsty eleseee wild ned

have any biliby 67-suecese in darted.

QAey9eRELLAON mane DaPZOLE: REPORTED: - aoe a
-" Yuntao CUNY THTORVBX An Spanien ve ANBA Buenos Aires £210 OMFS tov 76: FL

. ] feakeo’ City, 29 Mev (ANDAsHZHPORMIX)==Hoxicote trade balance experienced & $1.99
| AQ EMiton defiodd in tho fires O monbhw-of this year, This te contained:.tn'an Industry

- Gnd Conperoe Kecrebarias etudy: whieh also dtecloses bhab growth in inportations yas
_! pimtiar to Shae during a2. of 1975. aera aoe

re voncerned, bhe.drop experienced in sugar crports. should: be
qb, BUgAr celes duving. the Firat 0 months of 1779 amounted to i,979 billion pes:
) hile the figure was only 1,656 billion pease for the aarp: por: d this year, The ineresee
fe based prirarily on the asquiaition of nomiurable consurer goods, ine: :
pIArmesutioal produote and elochalec

nd evaporated mbil



°eAboget SutleZ. F< Ab SE
T 4159356 ela75e PAGE @1 TH ws2as

: TORS 3221162 NOV 76 SDON 17865

ECRE T 3622532 NOV 76 STAFF
$EFE SANTO DOMINGO 17665
Tos DIRECTOR, LACM AMI,
WHESRTEL MHSP IKE

BEFS5 A, SANTO DOMINGO 17864 (NOT NEEDED CAPHTEHEY CN ws)
By SANTO DOMINGO 47695 Cad oSXP)) :

Cy LA/HIAME 25328 Cyh cto)
Zo STATION. IRPRESSION 15 THA NICETARY ¢PARTICULARLY

AIA PONCE) ARE WELL DiSPOSED TOWARD CUBAN RIGHTS St TERRORISTS,»

GNTbMe 3 WAS ASKED TO EXPLORE SUBJECT WITH EMFETCHe 19: ¢&-39)
aD FOLLOWING IS INFOHMATION DEVELOPED BY HIM OVER LAST Few
1 OS,

3, Go.9 18 FRIENDLY WI tH ORL ANDO BOSCH, FRANK CASTRO AND

_ OTHER CUBAN RIOHTIOTS, Gosp Says HE HAS AQWAYS: MeO! LABORA TOD
ITH THEM” @ECAUSE THEY AR FRIENDS OF te, aae
_FOASE PaRacHuT ists (Geko 18d PARACHUT IST, NOT A PILOT).
Gr29 ANMAVOHD (DATE UNKNOWN) POR A NUMBER OF THESE CUBANS
4G WAD PURMED A PARACHUTIGT CLUB KNOWN AS THE D'waLCONGS
EGAABOR", 10 JUMP WITH THE] AR FORCE Pamacnure.
(OAT OM, :



eee : i
2 PAGE EST nae a gage
. TORR322i162 NOV 76 Lt sdom 17885

3. Eek9 FOSTERED THE [DEA OF ASSIGNING AIR FORCE OFFICERS -
aS SECURITY GUARDS ON AIRLINES FLIGHTS 3ECAUSE THEY
COULD BE USED "PARA ENVIAR QUALOUTER MATERIAL," E919
‘ PERSONALLY IATRODUCTED AB FORCE LIEUTENANT FRANCISCO:
“GS TEV € 2 RAMIREE ALIAS PaxcHo (| Seeurtry cuaro
(PRESENTLY CUT ON BALL IN MALME PENDING TRIAL ON ARMS SMUGGLING
' CMARGES) TO FRANK CASTRO, ESTEVEZ WAS USED MANY Times TO CELIVER
| ARMS AND PACKAGES TO "CasTRO'S GrouRH ON BEHALF oF ee19 AND THE
“AIR FORGE, THESE SAME CUSANS HAVE SOLD ARMS TO)!~SCSC*W
AIR FORCE OFFICERS, JNCLUDING COLONEL ISIDORO HAA TING @
CAN INTIMATE FRIEND OF Ge29)» COLONEL: CASTRO GR UH AND”
COLONEL LUIS BE AUCH ANP S$ JAVIER (PREStcENT OF.
[___Jatrutnas anol seeneraay oF arare or tH
AAMBD FORCES, GENERAL RENE GG AUCH AMP & vOvEsAD,
4 MGS MAY WISH PASS AGOVE INFO ON ACTIVITigS OF estaveR
(AND PRESUMASLY OTHER, | ggCURITY auaRos) Te Pet ano
* QUSTOMS, PLO AOVESG LP Sagan, '

+ We PIRML aaerezse8, aereanoaed, egteesorat’, gai twesety

: 1h



RMODUEION ave
ISSUING OFFicE ISS
———.

£ COPY issuEs/siorren
UNI

fa ot awd
SECRET se2iaya ‘NOV 76° Stapp”
SITE CaRacas Stasq m7 fetta

TO! DIRECTOR, Santtagg: dae

a .

WNINTEL RyBary FUDWELL WKBOXER :

REFS) A, 1460) Caw /s0.6a9)

CARACAS Si443eNOT sent “NEEDED sant

16 NOVEMBER so76
“Cs DIRECTOR g4ar6y
te REFERENCE’ TRANSW
PASSPORT ISSUED 10 ORL ang
MUIS PANTAQUA MeNDER Htc,
BY BOCK. QUALITY OF KER,
HOME OF TRAVEL ENTRIES Ng
ANOTWER XEROX COPY OF any,
TH 340725, .

SYTED XEROX Copy gp Costa Alcan
OB OSH

AVILA IN NAME Cantos
M IS-CATEST TRAVEL. Docunenr USED

OX IS UNFORTUNATELY vor BEST AND ae
T COMPLETELY Leorace, FORWARDING a
ACKMENP To ner 9 vO Santpago UNDER

Osaa0, a2, tweoar,



Ss : bot
at FOKm eQuines
* SECURE STORAGE

’
‘
i)

“Chief.of Station, Caracas
REAM/HUFABRIC/WKBOXER

REFERENCE: . CAPACAS ot

. WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND
Leite INVOLVED

Forwarded herewith is the, Xerox copy of the

passport mentioned in reference. beeestareantaars

‘Frederick C. BRADSPIES

Attachnene '

sport Xerox comy, ve

Distribution: 7 :
or rig 42+ COS, San Jose, w/att h/w
= c/tA, watt hiw

BITHPOET


Ate es

REeRANLIC HON AY One
HesuING OFC

re ened
a Sommer tis

(starr

nag (PAR, Gi te epg pea Seine ete '
RRO PaGe vi-ar iW evesoa ene
ToR:2116252 OCT 76 $y0s 20032

“E-T~2115412. OCT 76 STAFF ae fiir . :
S € CR -ET24s8412 OCT 7 woes f :
CLTE SAN JOSE 20031 : : i :
TOs CARACAS INFO DIRECTOR. d ete ea ck, :
} m" : He

WNINTEL-REAW HUFABRIS MHSP IKE

te HAS REQUESTED STATION ASSISTANCE: IN gee
DBTAINING DETAILS COSTA RICAN PASSPORT REPORTEDLY USED’ BY
“ORLANDO 8 0S SH “AVILA TO ENTER VENEZUELA, ~

HAS TRIED
“YO OBTAIN INFO DIRECTLY FRUN VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES WITHOUT
. success,

2. ANY DATA CARACAS MAY BE ABLE TO PROVIDE ON THE COSTA

RICAN PASSPORT WHICH May 8G WILL. BE APPRECLATED,

3. PULM) 202030u785,. 169692073, G2 rMpoat



seed

ey tie
nee on

: Sete i
FAULE SLE DISSE By. 2F_nn "sora coon BS- Jam ha &&.

coos ey omen man

: :
rea Wenn 8 ice ; :

pvance copy wsave0/s10)

PAGE 31> a1 IN 108628

TORS1522142 NOV 76 i CARA 314463

“g GG RET A5ZL53z NOV 76 STAFF

: ch re_canacas 31448

TOs SANJOSE INFO DIRECTOR,

“WNINTEL REAM MUFABRIC MHSPIKE

“REPL SAN JOSE eos (1/076560)

dy POUGHING XEROX COPY OF REF PASSPORT WHICH FINALLY

OBTAINED FROM WRSCARLET( | 42:“NOVENGER, REGRET DELAY
DUE NONSAVALLABILITY OF PASSPORT WHICH HAD BEEN IMPOUNDED
FOR TRIAL GVIDENCE PURPOSES, WHEN PASSING XEROX COPY. TO
TATION) WKNOWLE*24 CUMMENTED THAT CoPY HAD ALREADY BEEN
PASSED TO COSTA RICAN ENGASSY IN RESPONSE URGENT REQUEST .
“PRON EMBASSY, WKNGELESZ6 HAS NO GGUKCTION TO SAN JOSE

SWTATION PAUSAGE OF HEROX CS

Pteat asee9av7E5, Luebe2s/3, G2» Cuda


/PASAPORT Ee.

» (PASSPORT)

LA DIRECCION GENERAL Dz: MIGRACION
+ DEL MINISTERIO DE SEGURIDAD PUBLI

~ Supticn a tas autoridades cfvites y militares
Requests the civil and military authorities of the
ce : :

de tos polses. por donde transite el portador,
through which the bearer travel to provide

we te pongan obsticulo y Te presten ayuda y

Proteccién. on caro necasario.

Auaistence without delay or hindrance and pro-
: tection es may be necamary.


No. DEL FASAPORTE at UHo- “yy.
Heats

feng
{homer las sam oR Bin S } sam sose“costa nica
yaa juste one Saar eee
Tie ot sete 2 Coo guile ja3s al . 197 }
Pra of i:

resentga a Onto an
\eution ee cecupatton’ te

SAI aay. og Bey 1493
ten Salita ou 9 ennai a

Pocaltarigades ftatesa
Ebay earn ad

ast?

geen

pers

ote

te

ao
ot Rambre ae ta expos

+ Stole de Mentieae
«fleets er

+ Membre det auto

1 “0
Be ste

tite faa

, eee


IRIGIRSE A

;

2
a
u
z=
«
&

2
e.
os
s
ia
8

Oo

z

Q

PARA DI

* Milide’ hasta
Valid wntil



oe
i : f

~~

t

-, OBSERVACIONES
REMARKS

: sea by

sph hoot pe ad? Sant
elt sis un



se.20 3

ee




. 13: Ef
VISAS '""

Vi SA ohana sacs
re No. £2e6_”

DERARTAMENS YF AE MIG OT Gey
+ aePuenca On piare h

cuigtsa t _leeesa

wea

na Tig edod medeyarbe annoy seni "aidaonwediick wna w Maen ptasns



\ASAS coma o.
parscita DANKA

he aise dvi ee Nh ay
is Kieth ia ih

he hiypye
i i alee 4 Sil



ae
VISAS

REPUBLICA DE VENEZUELA

ENSAJAOA CN
= BICARAGUS,

SEccion

ERMAN CSCOBAR
‘SEGUNDS. SkcAaraRig.

"es eR:
a i er) ats ryt ty fue




fies

Peder pine nebacetemivtes arose wip Sgt peat



7 i: an

ahi be Snap eta ddd poli tang Bt gh

eh ad eT E S|



eevee eae
ee ai ara a ie = meas :
omr ac oo oO “. 8 0 a 7 Line |
eurtercarion : : : 3 ; i:
SELRET : : Seecreiold :

Weetae manouma mmcatoR

egemae nerenrnce moun
STAFF _entaginan a c 944136
eee ate i, D wen |” visseM ay; Ce
On 3lot-& ; tro: Fe, nS, a Ke... ve a eee 7
sarees to | PERT SS ‘
Rewpra* Pde ." O ome #2132. :

TO: IMMEDIATE FEDERAL UREAU J
GENERAL INVESTIGATING sirsrow.

“ ENVEETZGATION/ /aTTAt R-Ke” MCHARGUE/* i

‘ an

fut
SECRET-UARNING noruck-sewszr3ve. INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND Ma fel '

INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TOF OREON waa
CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS
SUBJECT! POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT OF THE NOVO.GROTHERS IN. THE. es
\ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO LETELIER : he

d+ SOURCE OF PARAGRAPH ‘TUOt A VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE
WHO HAS ACCESS To OFFICIAL REPORTS: HE-IS A USUALLY: RELIABLE
REPORTER. THIS INFORMATION SHOULD NOT BE DISCUSSED WITH FOREIGN
OPPICIALSs INCLUDING THOSE OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT.
ith INEARLY NOVEMBER 297m RICARDO MO RAL E S~ NAVARETTEs
A HIGH OFFICIAL OF THE GENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE FOR: THE: SERVICES. OF.
INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION CDISTP3s SAID THAT ORLANDO BOS CH i
AVELAs CUBAN EXILE UI en ARREST IN VENEZUELA FOR THE CUBANA AIRLINES’
BOMBING: HAD TOLD HZM| THAT THE NOVO. BROTHERS-HAD. BEEN RESPONSIOLE ron
THE BORMBING. OF tHE var ne or ORLANDO. LET ELIE Rs las i
bare:. .
oni:

Unite
ar

ana Fi gy uN i
an» LY TE :

py eg

a8. IMPORT ’
Ci :


Fenn mn =U EEUING WESDAGE

. \ monaccentenus 7
rn ac.
omF..a - 0 ‘0 o Oo Qo

suasencation

wessssanersmmcamvusnn .

(DIRECTOR i soit HetatEEN
conr: qwro: BILE : Q = ae : ’
a, a

CHILEAN AMBASSADOR 19 THE, untted “states. MORALES | lean nat" ye HIS". te :
INFORMATION. cnapabantens COMMENT? ACCORDING - A NUMBER on PRESS i faeia
ARTICLES. IGNACIO 'Ne 0 i ad AND, GurLuERo ON 0 V0. HAVE aced +
. CHARGED BY SEVERAL OF THEIR: conpatarors IN VENEZUELA. AS BEING
RESPONSIBLE. FOR THE ASSASSINATION oF ORLANDO. LETELIER: IT IS patee i i
BELIEVED THAT YOUR BUREAU HAS “ADDITIONAL “AWFORMATION: ON THE Novo 7
J BROTHERS. IGNACIO AND GUILLERNO-} ieee : \! 4
_a% HEADQUARTERS Comments [PROM A VENEZUELAN
GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE WHOSE RELIABILITY HAS -NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED AND
. WHOSE INFORMATION SHOULD NOT BE DISCUSSED. WITH FOREIGN OFFICIALS,
INCLUDING THOSE OF THE VENEZUELAN GQVERNMENTs REPORTED THAT SINCE HIS”
iH cine ON: 35 OCTOBER BOSCH nay apnzt Ten TO-AN- OPFICEAL OF DISIP THAT
HEHAD CONTACT WITH THE Nove BROTHERS 2H. MTAMI-“SHORTLY BEFORE ;
LETELEGR'S ASSASSINATION. FT ‘,
: dee, fvasszrses ey RECORDED REPORTING SPFICER.'
ot yt ‘

= , we
Basen oh CARACAS 33432 [IN vobszal :
oT CUKSCARLET<4)

i a

a

bar bi NOVERBER 347% oe, Pee Mibddn

uur LAZSB/ CH  @2/Re8 _____tegecoonns

in AN Cy eyed, erarene Ae

ie Vsn CALM/AR 4 A » SETI : :

AUPRODUCTION GY OTHER THAN Thu TenuiHa OFPISE IS AROK:GITED = a -- IMPDET



1. We.understand from press accounts that. Orlando Bosch,
WKSCARLET-3 and several other. Cuban exiles were recently arrested
and charged with the sabotage ofa Cubana Airlines airliner on
6 October. After having read these accounts NOC Byron W. GUTRADT
reported, for the record, that he once knew Bosch and WKSCARLET-3
din the éarly 1960's. GUTRADT met WKSCARLET-3 in 1964 when both.
were enrolled in OCS ie Fort Benning, Georgia. GUTRADT at that
‘ime had already terminated his relationship with BKHERALD. E
While at OCS GUTRADT was. not particularly close to WKSCARLET=3,
but WKSCARLET-3 was generally knowledgeable of GUTRADT's back-
ground and.past BKHERALD activities. GUTRADT has not. seen
WKSCARLET-2 since 1964 after completion of the OCS course and a
doubts seriously that WKSCARLET-3 would remember hin. =

2.° GUTRADT met Bosch circa 1963 in Midmi when GUTRADT was”
training Bosch in a BKHERALD-sponsored program. Bosch only knew

GUTRADT in alias. GUTRADT has not seen Bosch since. completion
of this training. .

3. Given the length of time that elapsed plus the lack
of closeness to either WKSCARLET-3 or Bosch, GUTRADT and. the
Btation do not believe that their knowledge of hie past BKHERALD
activities presents any security problems today. GUTRADT, of

unwitting of their alleged current activities ind
4 to hear of the bombing of the Cubana airliner.



ed

re

15 NOV 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

FROM : Raymond A. Warren : : |
Chief, Latin America Division i

VIA

Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT : Alleged Chilean Plot to Use Cuban Exiles to
Kill Andres PASCAL Allende, Nephew of Former *~
Chilean President Salvador ALLENDE 7

1, The Washington Post carried an article on 12 November
1976 claiming that a Venezuclan Secret Polico Officer, Ricardo
MORALES, had. told FBI contacts that carly last year Chile's <

* Secret Police (DINA) seught to assassinate Andres PASCAL Allende’, .
and his companion Anne Marie Brussier. The information contained:
in blithe! for the most part coincides with information in
our es. ‘ i

2. A source of the Caracas Station reported on 17 February
1976 that anti-Cuban govornment oxilos were planning to kill
PASCAL Allende who was in exile in.Costa Rica at the time. This .
sourco also reported that the Cuban.cxilos- claimed to be working ~
undor tho sponsorship of the Chilcan Government and that tho. a
attompt against PASCAL Allende would bo carried out:hy tho Cubans
dn return for unspecified aid to be givon cortain Cuban oxile
‘lenders, including Orlando BOSCI! and Krank CASTRO, - Those
Andividuals reportedly would onginoor the assassination, This
information was passed to the FBI and the Depurtmont of State.

s ermetpein, o en ee

3. On 17 Fobruary the San Joso Station notified the local
Buthorition that BOSCI! might bo-on his wuy to a Central Amorican
country and that he might be us tng 8 Chileon passport, BOSCH
had boon of Intoront to- those officials for sowo timo because of
his porsitte invalvemont with rom Lungs In Conti Rica and alse £
boeaune of the thon expocted vinit of Seeretary of Stato lonry
Kinainger., On 1a Pobruary BOSCH was apprehended, © cy

4. On 20 Pobrunry the San Jono Station rained. with tho
- Socal authorition tho spoctéle throat against: PASCAL: ALtonte, i
i Thono authorition stated that they hud alroudy advtiaed ‘PASCAL
Allondo vf the possible: throut agalnet his -itfe, . BOSCH was
“:, deported on 20 March. 19760. -- ches -

=
WA
GENSIT Ie,

2a

Bigwd
Roywona A, Warren

Raymond A, Warren

MPT
Y O1RO8T



~  SERET © = GG

‘ .

SUBJECT: Alleged Chilcan Plot to Use Cuban Exiles.to i ! 4
Kill Andres PASCAL Allende, Nephew of Former : i

Chilean President Salvador ALLENDE : aia ‘

: 116
William F. Wolls 15 NOV
Deputy Director for Operations Date



Ia pea nn a Ssssacmanianare
7 SS
SUBJECT: Alleged Chilcan Plot to-Use Cuban Exiles to rea !
Kill Andres -PASCAL Allende, Nephew of Former - Ee
Chilean President Salvador ALLENDE 4 cs
: : cueiantiry
‘
DDO/DC/LA/SB: ul (12 November 1976) et i :

Distribution: : feet beseestetec
Orig & 1 - DDCI

DCI

Ex Rog

DDO

ADDO

C/LA

LA/SB :

201-931810 (PASCAL)

201-299292 (BOSCH)

Memo Chrono

Perera


oo nents eee SEE asecseS spereseeseeteeests : ae

1 eam

| came'we onsrw wt p ee sore coves 277 Lam
| —~ IOOUC TON BY OTHER THAN,

SECRET i ISSUING OF ENCE 1S PROMIBITEO.

| PresoNnmr wOTFH TD

ADVANCE COPY INSU NSLOTIED

Se ee ‘

{

| GA ,

{ ACTION & zs sl
~yseises thas afea PaGE 1-02 IN 102338 :

gee eee ogee cteres ToR:i5s6522 Nov 76 “CARA _3nas2 Beedites

| . §$ EC RE T 1516422 NOV 76 STAFF
| GLYE CARACAS 32432 (CARROLL ACTING?
"TOL DIRECTOR.

wwINTEL RYBAT FUDWELL : :
“REFSI A. CARACAS 31388 (2 FOQIWS fears
_ 8. CARACAS 32234 ( OB0244

be WKSCARLETS9 REPORTED 10 NVEMBER 1976 HE HAD GEEN

“TOLD BY-RICARDO MORALE S NAVARETTE (201-0208923) ar
- ON UNSPECIFIED DATE THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA wan TOLD :
“JieY MORALES THE (FNU) NOVO BROTHERS HAD DONE THE BOMBING OF

‘ORLANDO LE TE LL 1 € R AUTOMOBILE IN WASHINGTON: DiC,
_- MORALES: DID NCT AMPLIFY ON THIS INFOMATION WHICH MAY
ALSO GE THE BASIS OF REFERENCE A INFO.



aie

Pitre a ee

t f : =a a
[| prema canren vad inemieten 6 el
}  OnF o o o8 oO - aay “2° ‘ ee
ieee _ : Dy hon 3 : a : : -
“SECRET !
{ beraeiaacia Lacoupernucewss? om ereanes marenench samreen
ae STAFF 1300542 DIRECTOR quay :
com: Lg wre ma Wife, SSH, SY CEC 2, Se :
. Lga/lo, Ys, poo O wmnenre PER :
: Pf Te, 200/02, c'4, ‘SS/S0GY enn ;

TO! PRIORITY SANTIAGO INFO SAN JOSE» CARACAS. ¥ aries 7 i

WNENTEL YO” a : seein Aeaitieal i
2. ON.22 NOVEMBER 197b THE WASHINGTON POST" PUBLISHED AN

ARTICLE BY JOE CRANKSHAW IN MIAMI WHICH REPORTED THAT FBT HAD BEEN”

TOLD OF A DINA PLOT TO USE CUBAN EXILES TO KILL LUTS ANDRES

PAS CAL ALLENDE AND ANNE MARIE 8 RUS S.T.E.R- {SIC - SHOULD

BE BEAUSIRE}- FOLLOWING ARE. EXCERPTS FROM ARTICLE: ¥

As RICARDO M1 O°R ALE Ss VENEZUELAN INTEL OFFICIALS
REPORTED TO FEI THAT HE HAD BEEN TOLD OF. A PLOT TO KILL PASCAL AND
BRUSSTER BY ROLANDO © T E.R 0- ACCORDING TO OTERO. HE WENT TO
SANTIAGO IN EARLY FEBRUARY AND IDENTIFIED WINSELE TO DINA OFFICIALS —
AS A FUGITIVE PRON THE UsS. AT DINA HGS. OTERO SAID HE WAS TOLD
THAT THE SECRET POLICE SUPPORT THE CUBAN EXILES’ CAUSE AND WOULD.
PROVIDE FUNDS AND ARMS POR THEM IN RETURN FOR A TPAVOR.” THE FAVOR
WAS TO KILL PASCAL AND BRUSSZER ZN COSTA RICA BEFORE. 22 FEBRUARY
397. OTERD QUOTED DENA SPOKESHEN AS SAYING BOSCH WOULD SE BACKUP

“AP OTERO BPATLED IN THE AESSTON. ACCORDING TO “OTERO. HE REFUSED TO

D0 THE “PAVOR.® LEFT’ CHILE -AND rou MORALES. HE THEN RETURNED TO

‘surenuraarne oomaes

: ren t _ ces bv onvan taan te BAVING QPPICE.18 PRONIAITED al WEPST 8


Mea ena

OUTGOIN ~ MESSAGE

eames es.raevse ome
- er ae ee ee)

onF oO t) o o o o
eanemesnon

Y secret :
seanes menonme eoedvon od : -” ecsacen rarest meee
ft i
: OD ware DISSEM BY: i
ConF: miro: FUE O weenes
quay. D evmam Fen a
Dene. # :

SANTIAGO AND WAS ARRESTED TWO WEEKS LATER. ¥ |

B. BOSCH WAS ARRESTED ON 29 FEBRUARY. ENTERING COSTA RICA
UITH A FALSE PASSPORT AND CHARGED WITH PLOTTING TO KILL SECRETARY
OF STATE HENRY KISSINGER. PASCAL AND BRUSSIER. NO TRIAL WAS HELD™
AND BOSCH WAS LATER DEPORTED. HE RETURNED TO SANTIAGO AND =~ i: i
APPARENTLY REMAINED THERE UNTIL GOING TO CARIBBEAN TO ORGANIZE CORUe ¥ =."

C+ INFO ON THIS.ALLEGED. DINA-CUBAN EXILE CONSPIRACY UAS
SUPPRESSED DURING THE SEPTEMBER 7b FEDERAL BOMBING TRIAL. OF OTERO
IN JACKSONVILLE. WHEN OTERO STARTED To TESTIFY ABOUT HIS" ACTEVITIES
TN CHILE, GOVT PROSECUTORS OBJECTED THAT-INFO:UAS TRMATERZAL-TO
BOMBING CHARGES. OTERO WAS FOUND INNOCENT’ HIS TRIAL ON RELATED..
“STATE CHARGES WAS TO BEGIN IN NIANI ON MONDAY <8 NOV? BUT WAS: ~ =
ORDERED POSTPONED UNTIL EARLY 3877. ¥ : : \
; De OTERO HAD LIVED IN MBMPLORIDA UNTIL LATE DECEMBER 3975
WHEN WE MAS TOLD GY FEE INFORMANT THAT PBI EAS: PREPARING TO HAVE HIN
INDICTED ON. BOMBING CHARGES: OTERO THEN WENT.TO DORINICAN REPUBLIC
WHERE HE WAS. ARRESTED. AND PAROLED. WHEN MZAMZ FEDERAL GRAND JURY,
RETURNED TNDZCTAENTS AGAINST OTERO, HE PLEU TO CARACAS WHERE stave

po

ceonmmiras 6 omen
M0 OPFICR # PRUWURICED wa


Neen en so

“WYUISYUING MESSALE -

Tene
ee ee ee ey

t
| vasa” « o oc oso oO
|
|

roman content

ussnrearen
“SECRET

ereesoe namoume merearon arenes enor Ee on erase anrennice mares .

STAFF. DIRECTOR . ‘

a : . 0 we OISSEM BY: : ‘

‘CONF: wro: FILE eas . 7

: AMany ~O. mmmro PER : ,

Oo - t peeeetseeseey
WITH MORALES. INFO IN REPORTS ALLEGES. THAT OTERO WAS TOLD THAT IF 1
VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES MOVED TO ARREST HIN.

WITH NEU CHILEAN AMBASSADOR.

HE COULD RECEIVE” ASYLUN;
WHILE IN CARACAS, OTERO ALLEGEDLY
: TOLD MORALES THAT HE HAD COMMITTED THE BOMBINGS IN NTANT AND ‘
MORALES PASSED THIS INFO TO FBI-¥ acute. : ‘
2. MUCH OF INFO ON PLOT TO KILL PASCAL “AND BRUSSTER ve weancens
TAKEN FROM 25 FEBRUARY 1976 FBI REPORT WHICH COULD cone FROM RORALES.
MORALES WAS SOURCE OF NUMEROUS SECRET SERVICE REPORTS DURING i
KISSINGER VISIT TO CARACAS IN FEBRUARY 7k: ON REPORTED ATTEMPT BY |
BOSCH TO KILL KISSINGER. . ONE SECRET SERVICE REPORT INDICATED THAT |
MORALES WAD PROVEDED CARACAS LEGAL ATTACHE UZTH RELIABLE INFORMATION ~
“IN THE PASTY ; ;

BA.

PILE: BOd-2g4eaas. 201-2092"2-

Ea IMPDET dg

<fees Le, Secon) :

Aq/LAd
C/LA/HCA

ies

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE (8 PROMIBITED

we IMPORT.
cL BY:



— oe i
Cel SERPSESEIGSES fc OURISSEETSES i

Poet

1 “ OUTGOING MESSAGE?”

samen caeTes ue mat
ne ee a od

; AS ea
or o 0 o 8 GO G-O Q3 i 2 2
SECRET

sete anslti pie eee a esatcesseenet aes
» STAFF _. 1B2u4OZ —- DIRECTOR ee ‘
Ee woe DISSEM BY:
cour 1B wo: FILE ety dni lel Soe BY: :
7 10 mcrmro PER 5
: Denn '# :

To: PRIORITY SANTIAGO» ¥

WNINTEL YO vC 278 ¢ [- S
REFS? faa 4992.05 OCTOBER 2976 :
“g. DIRECTOR 929297

Co DIRECTOR GW4B2b5S ¥ : :
2. IN VIEW OF 22 NOVENBER 297L ARTICLE IN "UASHINGTON Post™ {

{BEING RELAYED SANTIAGO}. DEALING WITH ALLEGED DINA PLOT TO KILL
. PASCAL ALLENDEs WOULD APPRECIATE ANY INFO ON DINA-CUBAN EXILE
CONTACTS» “ESPECIALLY THOSE ieee TO REFS A AND oY

2. FILE: US-S-25 2on-299292). 202-284813- 2 INPDET+ a

LA COMMENT! A. ALLEGED ANTI- CASTRO CUBAN EXILE cere IN.
ee CHILEAN GOVT.

B. REQUEST FOR i ON REF AS

Ce EXTRACT FROM FBI REPORT OF 4 NOV. 7a ON vistt
IN EARLY 75 TO CHILE BY CUBAN EXILE AND.HIS
CONTACT UITH bia! Y LIBERTAD."

vars 32 NOV Th : oi
be Bra aay ae ; Gen 2S £022...

‘up y ms essen

Lilttne mae

=

RAPRODUGTION BY OTHER THAN “

wwe OPPicS (@PROHINITED: 6 8 impoat
oe ay, 020888



1400000

By Jue Crankshaw
«The Slemt Htreela

ary attempted “tu recruit
Cuban exile lérrorists to
the nephew of Chile's late
i Marxist President Salvador
B ranking South American
ee afticial told U.S. authori-

Ricardo

Antetligence official.

crpt police (DIN AY sought the
natin of bath Andres Pascal Allende
aint his- companion, Anne’ Marle Brus-
sier, avvarding to documents made
avaltabie te The Mioml Herald.
Morales, himself a Cuban exile, said
“the DENA plot, which was never car-
rivit out, was reported to him by “Ro-
who curt. ally faces trial

bombings here.
riy of Chilean secret police
imveisemest in plsts against political
eviies have been widely expressed In
emuie ciietes, This was the first re-
petted: Instanre of an allegation to
ihe FM by s hich-ranking intelligence
oitwial suggesting complicily of the

\U-. The Chilean secret police .

Chilean intelligence 1 service in” ‘polit,
Ical assausination activities. Morales
had himself been associated with the
Central Intelligence Agency and rat
after

cession to power.]

At the time of Morales’ report to
the FBI, Otero was a fugitive from a
Miamt federal grand jury indictment
related ta the bombings. He ‘was sub-
sequently acquitted of that charge
earlier this year at a federal trial in
Jacksonville.

Morales quoted Otero as saying
DINA had attempted to recruit both
Otero and Orlando Bosch for the as

“sassination. Bosch was charged in

murder in the sabotage of

Venezuela last week with first-decree
Cuban

_ oirliner that claimed 73 lives,

Morales quotec Otero as saying
DINA offered arms and funds to Cu-
ban exile groups.

Otero refused to do the “favor,” Tek :

Chile and told the Latin Amertean in.
telligence official on Feb, 15, then re-
turned to Santiago. He was arrested

two weeks later and held until he was members
handed over to the United States in = federal bombing trial of Otero
“Jacksonville in September, 1976. .

nen ETE AO PR

Bosch was arrested entering Costa
Rica with a false. passport on Feb. t9.

He was charged with plotting to kill ~

U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kis-
singer; Andres Pascal Allende end
Anne Marle Brussier: .

_No trial was held and -Bosch was
later deported. He returned to Santk
ago.and apparently remained there
unti going to the Caribbean area to
organize CORU, a militant anti-Castro
group which claimed credit for, the
Cuban airliner bombing last month.

Morales made the reports to the FBI
in an exchange of intellicence with
U.S. official: about exiled terrorists’
plots.

‘An FBI: spokesman in Washington
sai¢ Monday the bureau would have
Ro comment on the reported DINA

»plot. (FBI officials in Caracas had no

comment on the casein response to
independent inquiries iy ‘The Wash- -
ington Post.)

Information on aileyed DINA Cu-
ban exile conspiracy against the sur-
viving Allende family and government
‘was suppressed during using they .

ning of the year te
Pensacola.

Otero remained in Florida bar late
December, 1973, when he was told by _
an FBI informant that the FBI was

preparing to have him indicted on the
bombing charges. -

Otero then went to the Dominican
Republic, where he was arrested, them

~ Ris trial on related state charges was

b fe deci here Nondzy but was

dered postponed until after the bein.
and transferred

on

FON os



no"
ENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED,

ae eee —$§$_
Le PROM! NAME, ADOREEE ANG Prone WO. ]

7 —
B. MONTGOMERY Snox jar | 27 oct |

bene NCLARSPTED TT CONFIDENTIAL TT wetueT |"



{
!
aie
Se eee et rey cee wiper ce = agen See eye oe ge eee

CAUTION ~ Biank form requies
‘secure storage in held,

FROM
Chief, LA Division .

COC)



fran rem enre  o

|

© <WOSTED FUND-RAISING DINNER FOR ORLANDO'B OS CH. ¥ i '

~ 7
a ee ee ee
SECRET L oe
eats mene tare eevee : oa eeesigg mirencnca mamas 2
STAFF 3320312 DIRECTOR eeatey 44537 7
com: Lb B  omwo: mun y : . vissem orig]

0 me

a 0 wenn
a
o

To? CARACAS. ¥
UNINTEL KMSTONE ¥ fiat -
REF? CARACAS 30237 [ZN Ob92031: ¥ .

2.) FOR STATION INFORMATION, FOLLOWING IS SUMMARY OF 201 FILE ON BBE
HILDO. FO LGA R MONTERO (202-029030b}. REPORTED IN REF TO HAVE

2. FOLGAR WAS BORN IN SANTIAGO. DE CUBA 24 NAY 2928- DESCRIBED.
‘BY WODISH SOURCE NOVEMBER 59. AS EXCELLENT BUT UNETHICAL SURGEON- ;
GYNECOLOGIST OPERATING Larce AND LUCRATIVE ABORTION MILL IN HAVANA’
HAD BEEN EARLY AND ARDENT CASTRO SUPPORTER, CONTRIBUTING MONEY AND
SETTING UP SYSTEM OF ARMS PROCUREMENT. BUT TOLD SOURCE NOVEMBER S49 HE a
COMPLETELY DISILLUSIONED AND WILLING DO ALMOST ANYTHING TO ASSIST IN
CASTRO'S OVERTHROW. IN THO NEETENGS UZTH A SMUAVE OFFICER ARRANGED
_ BY WODTSH CONTACTS IN DECEMBER bOs POMLGAR SAID HE WAS A FORMER
RANKING OPPICTAL OF ORTHODOX {CUBAN COMMUNISTS PARTYs THAT HE WAS
CURRENTLY WORKING GLANDESTENELY AGAINST CASTRO. REGIMES eur THAT HE
STILL HAD CLOSE contact UITH CASTRO AND OTHER HIGH REGIME OPPICIALS
AND ABLE cated INTeLe ALSO CLAIMED HE CLOSE PREEND OF PRESIDENT

‘GRous FLL Cor
BO _ a PIS TD



SECRET

“-. QORGESs. INTERTOR MINISTER GONZALO BAR if LO So PRESTDENTIAL
. SECRETARY NANUEL AN TT LL As AND AD CONGRESSIONAL LEADER CARLES

VUUIGUL» MEDSAUE

onan Conran ves omy
-_ — oe

onr 8 a a a t') a

ereeeniron

wetened anne mecaron quran enone

+ STAFF : DIRECTOR

pesstte OY:

gee Do cesu
GAU7 D cme MR
i . He eae gee
BETANCOURT AND HAD SHELTERED LATTER IN HIS HOME 4B-S2. FILE Rercecrs

WO FURTHER GEHERALD CONTACT UITH SUBJECTS APPARENTLY BECAUSE HIS. -
CLAENS RE PARTICIPATION IN EXFILTRATIONS AND OTHER ANTI-REGINE
ACTIVITIES HUERE. FOUND TOBE EXAGGERATHED AND HE CONSIDERED POSSIBLE
PROVOCATEUR. ¥ - eee i
3. FOLGAR LEFT CUBA FOR MIAMI 2) SEPTEMBER b3 BUT WAS DENTED:”
ENTRY TO U-S. AND AFTER WEEK'S DETENTION BY INS PROCEEDED TO VENE-
ZUELA. DURING FOLGAR'S SUBSEQUENT EFFORTS TO GAIN ADMISSION TO U.Ses
PRESIDENT BETANCOURT PERSONALLY VONNCHED FOR HIM STATING HE WAS LONG-
TIME PERSONAL FRIEND AND. PHYSICEAN WHO HAD ONCE SAVED BETANCOURTYS °
LIFE. “ANONG THOSE WHO UROTE LETTERS IN SUPPORT OF FOLGAR WAS DR.
MANUEL ANTONTO DE VARONA OF THE CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL ZN AZANE.
WKc-3037, 25 OCTOBER bis REPORTED THAT FOLGAR HAD HANDLED NOSt SF THe
APPOINTMENTS FOR DELEGATES OF CUBAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE. cRECED |
“WHO VESETED VENEZUELA DURING ‘TOUR OF LATIN AMERICA. “OFFICIALS - “won
RECE DELEGATES. MET INCLUDED. FOREIGN. MINISTER IGNACIO TRARIBAR is N

mmaimluecad ,
REPRODUCTION OY OYUN Vie. THY INS HRS T7FICE tb PROM AL


“Ue meen

oom, conan ua or
ee ee ee

‘onr oO 0 0 t') o o
nsercaron

SECRET :
1 tenes nani meena rare om
~ STAFF i: : DIRECTOR 7
CONF: WFO: FILE L

Iu?

ANDRES PE RE Z- RECE REPORTEDLY WAS PLANNING TO wate” R’contiatTe |
WOF FOUR CUBANS AND ONE VENEZUELAN To REPRESENT IT IN VENEZUELA
AND FOLGAR WAS MENTIONED AS A PROBABLE MEMBER. ¥- : |

4. FILE? ‘2032-029030b+ 2o1-o299292- Ee IMPDET+d

REF - REPORT ON ORLANDO BOSCH'S ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA»: LATE : 8 finatee 4
SEPTEMBER ° = EARLY OCTOBER 297b : a

ine esting

ia OTHER THAN THE tSAUING OFDICE id PROWEITED nt
TECRET eu evs aril



ee reer ane cee rors owe eisrriepeicsee:

at OUTGOING MESSAGE
H siokaL cenren var omy pet

ry '
i essaresren :
it SECRET

15" musnasenmoune mescaron eave: rae enone: Fe :
iP anne WOLSS7Z :

CONF ZZ gg tO: mus fe
v/a

! 5 70s FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTEGATION//ATTN:

"  QNVESTEGATEVE DIVISION. ¥

SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS=-NOT XELEASABLE TO

CONTRACTO TRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS ¥. :

R-Ks MCHARGUE/GENERAL
L-a/st

"- $uBJECTO UNSUBSTANTEATED ALLEGATION THAT ORLANDO-BOSCH INVOLVED INN
PLOT TO OVERTHROW THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT. IN JUNE-JULY 297% 4

Be EN EARLY MAY 297 A GROUP OF: COSTA RICAN PLOTTERS MADE. AN
AGREEMENT THAT A.QUANTETY OF SOVIET AND CZECH WEAPONS CAPTURED BY /
FHE CHILEAN. GOVERNMENT WOULD BE SENT TO COSTA RICA VEA GUATEMALA POR E

wrt i i

ann rk

uum “ ve OMe 76
nt EL a a "FED GO | Soreaeya te

ereseress bec

+ enomamerne crrance exroaieneaton orreee
REPRODUCTION BY QTHGA THAN THE ISQUING GFFICE IG PROWINITEO 6g og (MPOET

SL OY sansa |



1 ALIGN PHS LED TEN IN THIS BUA.

OUTGOING MESSAGE

roma, conten uss omy
Pe ae en

OnF..0 0 0 t') i)

SiSEeieaeei cIAsDD0 :
conn: wo: mi iro ‘DISSEM BY:
‘ GaAs O mere PER

ARE SAID rojthusrs1@br RIFLES ‘AND SUBMACHINE GUNS» AS WELL as’ sone
THREE MILLION ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION, FOR A FORCE OF APPROXIMATELY
BOO.MEN. THE CONTRACTING PARTYEIN CHILEs PRESUMED TO BE THE GOVERN-
WENT OR THE MILITARY, WE AGREED TO SEND TUO MEN TO COSTA.RICA TO
ASSIST IN THE PREPARATIONS. HOWEVER. THE WEAPONS HAD nor LEFT CHILE
AS “OF EARLY MAY.¥
Be ON 7 JULY 3976 THE LOCAL PRESS “IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICAs
AND GUATEMALA CITY CARRIED STATEMENTS BY GONZALO FA C I 09 COSTA
RICAN FOREIGN NINISTERs THAT THERE WAS A GROUP. OF PROMZNEKT PEOPLE
WHO WERE COMPROMISED IN A PLOT TO OVERTHROM THE GOVERNMENT OF COSTA
“RICA® FACTO INDICATED THAT ORLANDO 8 0 .S € Hy WHO HAD-BEEN
- GRAVELBING BETWEEN GUATEMALA AND COSTA RICA ON PALSE PASSPORTS, WAS
IN CHARGE OF THE OPERATION. CHEADGUARTERS. COMMENT! Eeeeera|

WHILE IN GUATEMALA TO TELL THe GUATEMALAN. GOVERNMENT AgOUT THE
PLOT. FACTO HAS: ASKED ABOUT HECTOR DAB AN S09 A CHILEAN WHO HAD
ENTERED COSTA RICA ON dean PAESPORT NUMBER at: As FACTO CLAZNED

wa
AS ES

#



if fenton tina center e

Ciieeeecrciers OUTGOING -MESSAGE fice)
, samen :
Peeeerep-oractpeentaiipoatteter-—asaeiet feast a) ;
oF oo oo o o 0 Oo 3 4 :
(SECRET : '
Stage pa a Susnnjeemunues

CIA/DDO
OFS

TO NAVE INFORMATION THAT DABANSO HAD RECENTLY TRAVELED 70 GUATEMALA
SEVERAL TIMES FROM COSTA RICA AND THE COSTA. RICAN’ GOVERNNENT
SUSPECTED THAT BDABANSO WAS INVOLVED’ IN THE PLOT. IN AID-FEBRUARY
9% ; =
[BOSCH WAS TRAVELING
"UNDER THE NAME HECTOR E. DYAVANZO CINTOLEST. USING CHILEAN PASSPORT
_ NUMBER 26583.) ¥ : :

woes, -DISSEM BY
—
exrvan ve: PER

Cont: oro: mud

Se THE REPORT THAT BOSCH WAS ZNVOLVED ZN THE PLOT WAS & =
PABRICATION BY. DANIEL © D UBER QUIROS. PRESIDENT 07 COSTA nea.

se csaueiinnhettenued
REPROBUGTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 18 PRONIBITED

ey



OUTGOING MESSAGE
Jf vont cqperenuss one : Reine ICY

2
t.
4
4

BASED ON! PARA 31

SAN JOSE 19625 JIN S03b4]5 34 JUNE @297b
HURUN {HUF ANG-2} :

{HAS COMMENT PARA 3% GUATEMALA CITY 19437 1IN 9782b914

32 JULY 1976. - ESLOGIC-27 AND SAN JOSE. 29237 IIN 830647!

.. 38 FEBRUARY 297% - HUPABRIC-34 .

PARA ut ae oe

SAN JOSE 19725 JIN S78R488l 4 13 JULY 297 = NP CHUGALLY-23-
:- IDEN OF SOURCE PROVIDED BY FORMER COS {QSAN JOSE} AT HOS

But d

ti

bara
(rir NeVEHOER 34

ny “LAZSO7RH7AR
+ $uPb

its

* Peta,

PROOUE of BY OTHER THAN THE



jiaw.
MESSAGE

OUTGOING.
eee Zsel

Samar gente:

onF og a a oO oO a

-
DIRECTOR 7

a

soc | 0

a

0

TO? SANTIAGO“ INFO SAN JOSE> bnachen _ :

weessennertcemcemouees “

94o%so

OISSEM BY: C2

e

UNINTEL RYBAT FUDUELL ¥
REFS! A. SANTIAGO 35352 IN oanuost
B. SAN JOSE 20082 IN 0827931 ¥
“ys INFORMATION IN REF A WAS REPORTED IN. EARLIER: TRAFFIC FROM
SAN JOSE AND GUATEMALA CITY AND SENT SANTIAGO. HaS: PROCESSING:
PIRCI TO FBI BASED ON EARLIER REPORTING. WHICH WILL BE RELAYED TO
| ADDRESSEES FOR INFO. ¥ 7
B. PILED 200-22-200/3. 20d-nBeI9a92.. C2 IMPDET dd

ae LA COMMENT! Ac. DOCUMENT ON CONVERSATION IN JULY 2M7~:BETUEEN
: CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO COSTA RICA AND COSTA RICAN
i ERSGECN MINZSTER. of PLOT. LeD By ORLANDO B BOSCHs
: : H WAS BEING ORGANIZED. IN GUATEMALA TO OVERTHROW
THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT :

CLARZPICATION ROLE OF BOSCH

VEMBER: L876
onler
wwite GA/SB/CH/RR
sate

BILAN) 2, SSSe

soe
ertasnn, A /* [rmg
i ‘eusaune rrwee eeeeemeine Ty
eetemaatien * REPRODUCTION AY OTHER THAN THI
accact 5

‘ ‘ gee
CL BY! gana -



TOL SANTIAGO. CARACAS. ¥ ‘

UNINTEL RYBAT FUDUELL -¥ : :

A. SANTIAGO 35330 JIN OP77991 {NOT SENT AOR NEEDED CARACAS?
B. SANTIAGO 35408 [IN O503721 {NOT SENT OR NEEDED CARACAS}
C+ DIRECTOR 932229 4 : é

REFS:

|
i
i
| dene

3+ REGRET DELAY IN REPLY TO REFS A AND 8 BUT HaS HAS BEEN *,
Ji AUAETING CLARIFICATION ON WHETHER OR NOT ORLANDO BOS CH IS "US.
PERSON." BASED ON INS INFO. BOSCH IS NOT REPEAT NOT "U.S. PERSON"S
1 THEREFORE COLLECTION EFFORT AGAINST HIN. INCLUDING FUPRONG-S :
| INVESTIGATION OF HIS CONTACTS AND ACTIVETIES IN CHILE, IS I8 AcconD™
WITH RCE Ce ¥ : or
2+ RE PARA 4A REF Ay FOLLOUING IS PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION AND
KNOUN ALIASES. POR ORLANDO BOSCH. PHOTO-BCING POUCH 12 Nov. ¥
Ae ORLANDO @ 0S CH AVILA\ DPOB 18 AUG 2us SANTA CLARA
LAS VILLAS PROVENCE. CUBA. HEIGHT S* LCs. EIGHT. 170 LOS. NEDIUN
GUILD. HATRA BLACK. SOHE GRAY SZDES. EVES! BROUN, USUALLY UICARS
BLACK HORN@RINHED GLASSES. COMPLEXION: DARK. SCARS. AND MARKSi Res
GERTHNARK ON. CHIH: PECULIARITIES! THICK LIPS. SOMETINES UCARS
§ NOVEMDER Li7t : : :

CROWS FILE

tdtiats

— enmmnnating novigay
REPROBUCTION BY OVNIGH THAN THE1NGUING OFFICE 18 PROHIBITED ae tf
i5 BYy

‘ easeeuons orca
tatemninan

naar
secre. een ASED
a.

wo002 MDIRECTOR C75? We
a vista: ov Of ye
WFO: FILE epi, Act/oco, 0002, 7 nipples
G00 feo, Keswte, nes, freee
YCOICEE 2 a Dome #

ge ores

dee



UUIGUING” “MESSAGE

arava ee:

ane Yee ansansurucreesennee

DIRECTOR i
(WFO: FILE ; AoW) 7 emt pIssiM Ov: o :
j D seweveo Pea ee i
: Seite x _
nUSTACHE. UIFES MIRLAN-GOSCHs M.D. HAS FIVE cuTUrRen: Cee i ay

G. ALIASES: PEDRO ANTONIO P EN A -DOMINICAN PASSPORTS iat
HECTOR E. Dt AVANZ 0 CINTOLEST, CHILEAN PASSPORTS LUIS.
: PANIAGUA MENDEZ, BIVECOSTA RICAN PASSPORTS aKa BOCA DE ROSA" :

{DUE TO BIRTHMARK ON. LOWER LIP AND CHIND. "PIRO" BOSCH. TERNESTO"~ ¥-
3. FOR CARACAS! SANTIAGO STATION HAS REQUESTED. TRAVEL DATA CN

+ ORLANDO BOSCH UHICH NAY GE AVATILAGLE eth susueetss +

| PASSPORTS. H@S ALSO INTERESTED DITHTS INFO. PLS ADVISE -IF INFO can

‘

BE OBTAINED.¥

We PILE! 200+12-200/%. 202-88L0L4. Ee -TNPDET.A

* £A/epa es jlesin
AGe/pDO = Asc. GOLBIN :
ares: $ NOVEHDER: 397) CIN DRANTD -

j ; ct 1 Jo
ve ieee GieSig hy os

a V4 fiti  PeSLSHtOD Mae

Ce aan fone a wee
Cael AUPRODUCTION NY OVER THAW fie VNTING SPPICH LF Astute
SECRET

“Fe wa Py

IMPGLY

pee



TR ena mene Dey carte

i onr, 0 7 2 My
L Gaseication , i
4 SECRE wa ; ea
feces onra ence om jeceaarinemenetsennnn

| | SSR : 3300542 sercorar C7A 43226

CONF: ¢ (2 ror FILE bios brand, 4 bagalirieeenorenestil & .

5 D mmamre PER ry
3 ~ : cary

one ADT ,

To: FEDERAL BUREAU oF SWESTEGATION//TELLEGENCE pIVIRTON. ¥ 7 toa ‘

SECRET-WARNING Ne NOEECE-SENSTTAVE Le ours guns i. METHODS i

i LEASHALE To CONTRACTEAS OF. SCONTRACIN/NCULTANTSS?
THVOLVED-NoP RELEASABLE™ "TO FOREIGN NATEONACSSDISSEINATYON AND" ot
EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED ey. ORIGINATOR ¥

SUBUECT: STATEMENTS BY SALVADOR ALDEREGUTI w REGARDING

<-INFORMATION ON SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA IS IN Ou! COUNTERINTELLIGENCE \
Fi fi “ -
FILES BECAUSE OF iy a CONTACTS WITH PANANANIAN AND CUBAN Ly

oe INTER WANO AE
SUSPECTED OF, ‘9 TERRORIST aerayrres ¥

>)
baa cyafh abate Le dont BosCcH TS IN OUR FILES aecause HWE IS
SUSPECTED oF TERRORIST ACTIVETEES ¥

Grove Fite cory. Tom
ean

Nor reotnoy
Not thos

aireuren ness
Wa IMPORT
St oozes

oc.



f
i

“GUI BUING MESSAGE

sranaLcurenusa
“

uassearion : . 7

ECRE i ’ :

fetensce inoue mmseaToe aepoey) pani etait et
; ; wercetem ¢7/ A, i ’

‘CONF: INFO: FILE y Olea DISSEM BY: i

: nie ONZE Damme rR :

: : oD = Dens ‘

oo

2. ON 23 OCTOBER 197b+ SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA SAID THAT THE
ORUY HAD NOTHING TO | | j
titty }

"COORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ACTIONS
DO WITH THE SABOTAGE OF THE CUBAN AIRCRAFT IN BARBADOS, CORUs
EIN THE OPERATION BUT © 3 ,*

ACCORDING TO ALDEREGUTA, OFFERED TO PARTICIPA :
THEIR OFFER WAS REJECTED. ALDEREGUTA SAID THAT THE PERSON RESPONSTBLE ,
POR THE SABOTAGE OF THE AIRPLANE WAS ALDO VER ERAFIN, UHO WAS ‘
“OPERATING OUT: OF PUERTO RECO., ALDEREGUTA ALSO:-ATTRIBUTED TO VERA THE :
DISAPPEARANCE OF TWO CUBAN DIPLOMATS IN ARGENTINA. aupenccura sad
THAT ORLANDO BOSCH UAS NOT LOCATED IN SANTO DOHINGO. BUT. THAT INSTEAD: ; :
JE HAD THE NAMES AND

CONTACT :2N VENEZUELAS °

BOSCH UAS IN VENEZUELA+ ALDEREGUIA SAID THA
ADDRESSES OF THO PERSONS WITH WHOM BOSCH WAS I
ALDEREGUIA STATED may HE ALSO HAD THE ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER &-
eP A RESIDENCE BOSCH HAD ESTABLISHED IN NECARAGUA.Y

3. THIS. AGENCY PROVIDED ADDITIONAL: TAPORMATEON 0 THE Fer ON :

* ALDEREGUTA wa ATED 43 OCTOBER 17 WITH ‘Supuect TITLE
aa or UNITED stares, eT ON BEHALF: OF THE PANAMANZAN

an



: ome

7 SEPARATELY TO THE FBI AND 0 THE STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICE OF

:

SECURITY AND BUREAU OF INTELLIGENCE AND RESEARCH via

B+ CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2.BA
: ‘ : i :
FILE! Sb-8-234 Sb-2-9/3¥ 2O2-28R1978 BOIL *2OI-277292-

ae » eh 4

| E/LALCO
SDC/LAZCA i
cruasops oy ghee. |
pacsszr¢ Co :
AGesDD0



UNITED STATRS GC RNMENT"

Memorandum

i : co 105.3-c 7
»;, DATES; November 3, 1976

Subject ‘was granted indefinite voluni ary departure
from the United States on January 16); 1973, ‘When
he departed from the United States, he lost that

i vie ki ‘ :
+ Bay U.S, Savings Bonds Regularly on the, Paytell Savings Mam

- =



FBI CABLE

FROM DIRECTOR FBI.
DATE: 4 NOVEMBER’ 1976
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: ROMBING OF CURANA AIRLINES DC<8 NEAK ‘
BARBADOB, WFST INDIES, OCT. 6, 1976



os

SECRET 0317222 NOV 1% Stace

CITE CARACAS size
Yor CIRECTOR.:

WNINTEL MASP IKE KMSTONE *
REF! CARACAS 31255 CA . :
1+ FYLy CARACAS NEWSPAPERS HORVING 3 NovErEEE 1976 |
REPORT FOLLOWING RESULTS 2 NoVEMBEa vUDICI AL HEARING oN
INVESTIGATIN OF FUBANA AIRCRAFT Bos ING:
Ay JUDGE ORDERED CoNTiNuED DETENTION

; Torre

AICARD O ‘Lozano, FREODY

GARRILES AND ORLANDO

Be HERMES AO A 8. PERALTA, GUETON OLEs
‘RooRiau ‘ # 06 LA Senna THETLACOFF, wituras
FIQUEREDO AND FPANCISCO NUN G 2 VALLAUDLMERE Ser FREE
"QUT WILL CONTINUE 10 WE BsuavEcteD th FUPTHER INVES TIOATI ON,
ay ALFREDO RAFAEL MaatNG (ho ast 4 1) PEAR AND CELSA

winy TOLE re ALEMAN WERE AeSL VED OF any ties: an tA
“Cast,

Bosc

|i

PAGE a.
317432

1
1
'

\

LuGo
AVILA,

aod al nce un Decision, unos sat

: cs Vela, wes, dbo 3,
ar 0LSTEY) oO lols, fal

C14)...

“OF WE ONAN
burs:

ALL rou

“TIN saves :

case 31326

Posada

i

our

ROSE FILS COPY FoR
B0i-LP APS


Rew 2

REPRODUCTION OY On
SUING GIFICE 15 PHO

starr

Chon UNIT i: ~
Ne FILE vit

—TeTaN

aez- 3

a en aT 4 ELT

oe)

CODE AND WERE ALLEGE OLY GUILTY nF “VGUAL TFS
MANUFACTURE AND ‘USE oF WEAPONS tr WAR,
WERE ACCUSED ASEAUTHORS OF THs altel

7" BINGE “N26

“TTN ¢6.8903
TORS 317432 NOV

RA 34326

|

D-HOMICIDE™ aND |
a0 sc ayn Paisapa |
1

angen WAS ys » |

pnosecure, vi
3, Fives aed oneegen,



tN FILO
ORGIMATON'S RLQUIST 108 bg, PROKTSSING

‘—-——__—_————. :

-~Ghiv£, Latin Anorica Division

| Puna of Station, Santiago pe i i ! :

; sae a SSreee erreur erarenTpn (aatueameeteteereerersmeaictasrnscierasnsenrereeresea ’

1 lrrarnaantY DAT, FUDNELL - Forwa Taine of Documents: :

| Reference: A. SANTIAGO 35326 (IICS-10,772) : ea

| | Bs SANTIAGO 35351 (HeS-10,775) —
“@, SANTIAGO 38552 : : a
WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE: INVELLIGENCE souncES ND ierHops IxvoLvED
| all .

‘ if
‘ 1 vrs .
Porwarded horewith are sonitized copies

‘
of the documents cited
in referancos,

Hy

Dineribution:
3+ C/LA w/atts h/w

8a wpnnr!

een ms canta



i
|
1
|

f

li

Lpce:

* REPUBLICA OF Crile

MINISTERIO OF RELACWONES EXTERIORES | EJEMPLAR Ne:
|EMBAJADA EN SAN 498e, co R.

, te

™ ehando ractonotnente: como le he hech
- wuente en, actividades eonepirativas®

B.COSTA RICA,

oO +
OBJ. Informa sobre detenc:
REF. Tolex Soa. N° 20

16n do okLanno BOSCH AVIBE
HIM LACTOIES , de 15,111,197

7 7 . +e

COSTA RICA, Ha de van de 1976,

. ron ‘
&N SAN JOSS Dit COSTA RICA .

. ‘
4 RELACLONES SATERIONES DE CHILE (Subdsec)
.t ~Seereses ine

Saoit

4

i976: a ‘fus dotentdo ca :
wlete ORLAKDO NO3CH ry t

wife habia sido ueande dg a
* cumentacién extendida @ nonbre do actor BaLto RAMON DAVANZO : ce
, SIMTOLESE, “4 ies ee

@ os einco Jofen con='-
ogrs escapar con vidade
scfala como el responsa

Costa Rica el ciudndano cubano , ‘anti:
VILA al) comproberso que eu dngreso al:

‘ ‘Mes : Bosch avian + 08 al Gnico’
. trarrevoluctonarios de las Villas quo.
Cuba, hace née o menos 22 ufos. 8e 1
ble de eojocar una tonba en ln sede

~~ York rede inant tar Jun buque

a) 7 ante: pate,

le if Mabe:

Aetualmente , se enowsntra reotufde y en huelga.d
jeclaracione @ la preg: .
ue cumplir” "Soguird ly
ate chora.docuird one.

nt tengo Anverda.da oone: :
proneter a2 Gobierno. = de Jo aus ae ha‘hecho ne voy. des eee
etlustohador



. F zs arn 2

AWUBLICA OBSCHILE ; BUANPLAR“ N°. :

aot ae asi aa ee
Sec, Ne 2

PstceR 3 By COSTA RIG

a ‘estudta: Ja pouibilidad dc
expulsaorlo , Poro @ No existe un pafs interesado en darle ast-
Yon met : :

See
_eumentactén:

int) sa) Cartieieads de Nnetmtanto oxtendide én el Rerine
tro oer de Quinta Normal el, 8,AG0STO.2975 ‘a nombre de HECTOR

EMILIC. RAYON DAVAO CINTOL! ESI y y firmade por Alberto Casal,Je-
fe Secoiéa dal Registro civil. Macido ‘ol 6.AGOSTO,1927-Inserin
* etén NO! 953 Cireungeripeign de Barrancos. hitJo do tléctor Davan
xo y so Amalia Enriquota Cantoleste’ ::

my

r ) Carnot de Identided W° aysm23,. del. Cabinete do
“Bante F RUT. 2987 a005s ne 7

Vehfoulos Yotorivados N° 882722. A
+ SIWDRE,1966. :

: a) PASAFORTE corriente ‘(eolor rojo) Ne 26583, de. 25.

SuPrraDRE. 1975 » ) extondido & nombre de HECTOR EMILIO RAMONDA
vs + WANZO OINTOLEST. Rogtatre dod Librato de Pasaportes de la Ca-
1 » tintre de agua en



Nee

ES PLAR il

wa neryeuica 08 o~LE
yeni DE RELACION, EXTERIORES

ee EMDAJAOA EW GAN JOSE, C. Ri E,COSTA RIC!

p socy me ZY

t
oJ. 2. 1976. Intrada on Conta Rien. coe HS
; ae 4 Pate t - A
: i +2800 Te 19764 Suldda do Coota Riea yontrada on” fc

Nicarayua.

on, iva 3723 Whgefalsddide- Mearagua’y entrada an
vooug WACae

7 ‘ eel teoneel a 4 i aoe !
: bes Desde al. dav permanness come turista on.
ce Conta Rica y tue Aueentéo at FREREROg. 1976, al _conprobaie ie
60 ma au Aenmantacsén ora ralene : : ot H r t
meee } ‘4 | :
+ |

_ontga dp Touch 4 portenceient
Ade y ue tex nar la’ al grads de

: ponte Jo os ae as ihasada vy



ae 2 HIE 7 +;  'Be SAN MOSE, COSTA RICA Of.Renst: ‘en:
i 'S EXTERIORTS ‘i
‘OSE, Cc. A. a

OBJ.1..sf4$recé © rusoroo cobra coup
rocanionte Gobiurao.

hay. cee

SAN JOSE,.? do Julio de 1.976.~ : ace

DELt E:.DAJADOR DE CUILE EN "SAN JOSE" DE COSTA RICA
AL SR&MINISTNG DE RELACICUES.EXTERIORES (SUDSEG y DIRELANS)

tye.
ide : Tengo 61 honor de poner. 1n eonooiaten
do UB.que en os Gitinon dfae'de 1a neisiaa pasada, fue dnfor:
\ do el Goblorno ge la Rephblich por functouartos cenfidencial-
* de 2a fmhajada do los EE.UUs,/que on Giistcusia ontaxdace pro
“" gindo- un conplot ultra-derechiota con el ebjoto de derrocar
+ Gobloxno de COSTA RICA, por estinirsele pro-sarxiota © comup
; te . 4 . ‘ :
y i é Dicho
‘eotaria dirigido. por el, oxi}:

t) clandestine anticconuniot

0 Secreto. (Subsee) na 2,403,

= : Puce :
ne Beohes que we conentabas,y, 62. Cancilicr Yaoio recied-ort
Me Prinor Nondatarie de trasledarse urgentenente & ny nem
aconpafiado del Hinistro do Seguridad phdiica bre iiccheee :
Ader Gamboa, @ fin de vorifien! as veracidod de los pel
°) qenddane tap diligencias Andagatorian portinenteny Anchusa
4 aivol de Gobierno; sus anf cot
| Dewtnge 4 de Sulo Gitiuoy pan
Qimoe horas Ged dia Lunse Jo

Seo 2 atts ‘
el Conediler 7 yo noo rouniac
de eonbing impreaiones en tori

, 2UbEHO ORLANDO. BOSCH AVILA,



eanallenca‘o podfa coucerirae ni “oluuiera ono veruién tatern

{ sada, por cuanto el Gobierno ¢hileno hs reiterado ou gragtitud

gneontrovertible para el Ninintro Facio y el Gobierno cooturrd
+ | & @@nae, porsus leales Antervefictonea yoncblea actitudes avi- :
: dencladse en la Acamblea General ‘de la EA, Fecieatenunte rote
lizade er Santiague to

El Canciiler, coaportiendo mis apevoravionse,
_g Be poricité lo coordinara unacntrevicta pnrao ol dia bazingsy '
7 i | on el Eebajador de Chile en Guatemala, General (2) Sneczlvio
: Balgado Ramfroz, a quien deceaba participarle los comentarios
} weferidoe,:mixiay of se considera que ¢l exiliado cubuno Ore

1 + Jando Bosch Avila 1en2z8 la veroién dol: \Gowplot en dicho pals

i 1 portador de un Janaporte, jehione, obteniio ileo

enero eterna mate

2
H

Ma 2 Practica
: , €ener ed carsoter de un extGpido ruro:

furine del BreBoach, quieny ein duds,
arne porque teaiaasie! erreutas

i

i d
: f Ne. agres’ «ue: a aobierns de Guateasis a0 te= i
: : nia eonociaiento de los runore mentadon y que tos Micistrop {

y de Rolacionse Ex! Lo, le diercn

me cordiad entrevista con ek Baba jndor Balgade, & quies es
preeb, econo cath dic bado, vogic= =
dole dc todos codes estar atonte fo Le elroulacién de versice

. ouperer eh Panaporte Adegthta’ je

aborasién que pusd anserte 2
de Guatensia, a) Jefe de bdesda suntan :



MILE
EXTERIOR
RMHAIADA EN SANDE 3 GR

7 dien Anstrutr al Sr. Bebsjador Salgode reopecto del node

operandi en el caso planteado,. teniendo en connideraciéa c

@l Pasaporte aludido es “ord: ario', con tapas color rojo, i
tione el NG 26583, fue extendido 01 25 de Soptionbro de 1°
@ nowbre de HECTOR EMILIO RAKON DAVANZO CINTOLESI y regtet
y solide de dirercon paisea. ‘
y tandaém con el Exbajador 4 ui
‘sorence Todman, con quien mane f
9 deduzeo a ‘
los cowentarios que cirouli :
Vereivo para derrocar el
: alls Y t

no ea Sbice fare adnitar
warzietare

recortes de-los distintes (fer.
que el Embajador infroserito. i

ay PARKA
Baba jodor



“ouTeoins MESSAGE i

{
‘apis :
ae jet “ a WARAL contemuseceur :
j ce ne - cane, :
} of oO @ oO :0 0 i . @ ccd i
[ean meanan , \ ;
F SEMEL 5 semen, oat cui ‘
, eae x Rene CIA/DDO ,: a 43 70b4 mh ot
E coNr: p= wo. ODoZ dad bo. —-- Dosen biiatentin ’
: : t : O camera Pua seP '

(erorsireee Jef P yerieenaisnisrean =
or FEDERAL BUREAU. oF nivestréartonsiwfeutaence DIVESION.Y icin tanta
CIOL - 37-7 aoe : iiestoseeeee eideee :
SECRET --WARNING NOTICE--SENSETIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES ur) netHoDs ‘
INVOLVED-~DTSSEMINATION AND EXTRACT LON OF INFORMATION cowtmoute ey ian

t ri . t

ORIGINATOR ¥ : a 4
SUBJECT! REPORT RECEIVED BY PANATANZAN NATIONAL GUARD ov ACTIVITIES
OF CUBAN EXILES POSSIBLY INVOLED IN TERRORISH i f \
de THe FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS RECEIVI ROH AN OFFICIAL OF A *
PANAMANIAN SERVICE wHO IS A USUALLY RELTAGLE RERORTER. | ‘HE. PROVIDED
: re IHF ORMATION vrrwour TRE KNOULEDGE OF HIS st TCE OR. GOVERNNENT.
ie THE INFORMATION IS ‘VERY SENSETIVEs AND NO ACTTOl ASED. UPON IT SHOULD ©
: Ald UNDERTAKEN WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF THIS, AGENCY 64 i
eRe OH BB OCTORER L87%bs THE Go? seeri0n or THE PANAMANIAN
WATZONAL GUARD AGNPRECEXVED A; HANDURETTEN, DOCUNENT UKs: ii APPARENTLY
WAR OBTAENCE PROM A NEU GH Gea: SOURCE IN TANT: aurunn THIS SOURCE
28. NOT IDENTIFIED BY NAME IN THe DOCUMENT. THe RITER APPEARS To BC
THE PROPRIETOR OF mPAscO'S sta roopin soa wes ENTY=THERD STREETs

poral UITH TELEPHONES eab-7344 corr ace ef te? cHOnEY THE



omer

. 2 eterno

: Rcaeiey| 4 CIA/DDO . :
: ” He O ne 0185 BY

cour: Wray re 7

‘
= mM ast0bf mel
if eo.

san #
maoye NUNBER 854-' 4031 FOLLOWED BY NOTATION ony wougs -* ALSO APPEARS

ON DOCUMENT. THE URITER IS [ASKING US-S $30,000 FOR uts SERVICES .¥
3B. PRESUMABLY TO ESTABLISH HIS BONA FIDes AND SUBSTANTIATE HIS
access TO INFORMATION OF VALUE ory THE PANAMANEAN GOVERNMENTS THE
WRITER. SUBMITTED ‘A LENGTHY REPORT ON ALLEGED RECENT cusan EXILE
ACTIVITIES ACCOMPANIED BY A LONG LIST oF CUBAN: xrUcravrsts. THE
Ni ALLEGATION oF CIA INVOLVENENT IN THIS ACTIVITY ©
+ THE DOCUMENT STATES THAT ORLANDO 8 oscH as unDer ARREST IN © - \
VENEZUELA TOGETHER WITH LUIS POS 4 DA CARRILES ALIAS PEL BANBI."
BOSCH WAS TRAVELING ION A costa RICAN PASSPORT “AND use = NICARAGUAN
DOMINICAN: AND CHILEAN PASSPORIS- Yo.
. “qe THE REPORT LISTED BOSCH'S CONTACTS AS manuel PORRD mm’. :
WECARAGUAs {DESCRIBED as BEING CLOSE TO GENERAL ANASTASTO sonoz a” : an
ORLANDO "NUNEZ IN COSTA RICAS AND MARZO. RIVADILLA tt
_ SANTO DOMINGO. POSADA ts DESCRIBED IN THE REPORT ag A PORMER U-S-
arny RANGER: wHo WORKED FOR THe. VENEZUELAN Genera DIRECTORATE or
PoL°re ADIGEPOLD FOR excHt YEARS AnD THEN onGantzcD A PRIVATE
perecrzve AGENCY WHICH cnecovs over 3,000 nes POEADAs ACCORDING

’

promoted og g IMPORT -



ae)

evecanan t ‘ : Ne H

SECRET ‘ # San iets ‘ :

‘wav esee nance oe iyoR “ earamoneeen! os om (eevense naresemammenes t
3 :

0 nw DisseM Oy: | 4 i

‘TONFS,

D enon
D evrumie PER

Oem
YO JHE REPORT, precte mL vrowent™ ACTIONS IN:VENEZUELA AGAINST THE — H ‘

COMMUNISTS. WIS ALTASES WERE “INSPECTOR BASILTO" AND Te CALICHE.” :
THE RECENT OPERATION AGAINST THE, CUBANA PLANE was mounted BY POSADAy i
ASSISTED BY ALDO v ERA. THE WRITER: OF THE REPORT CONTINUES THAT
BOSCH’S RECENT TRIP 70 VENEZUELA WAS AN ATTEN
DIFTERENCES BETWEEN "ALDO'S Groupe AND. THE. “COORDINATION OF UNITED.

REVOLUTIONARY OPGANKZATTONS” éconu>. BOSCH’S cf SSSION was SUCCESSFUL ~
» AS TT APPEARS cORU AND ALbors’ GROUP WILL UNtr \ eae i
REPORTEDLY. IN PUERTO RICO. THE WRITER: Apps Tl at auno's GROUP. WILL : Ans ac

sreererrest

, (be tts wor ENTIRELY CLEAR PRON THE Ri . i
THAT THE URITER IS.RCQUESTENG THAT VIVIAN FERNANDEZ 2C
CASTRO: POSSEBLEY JATLED IN CUBAy BE LLoUED To: raved 10 PANAMA
BENCE IHC HAS ALREADY SERVED/HER SENTENCE: FERNANDEZ, WOULD THER
TRAVEL PROM PANAHA TO NZART WHERE SHE UCULE GE OF SERVICE Te THE
WRETER: 0 A ‘
le THES AGENCY moveseh ADDITIONAL IHF

|ATEON 70. THE POE

A cninaiinanh i Tse caiimatian daatreeall
SAPRODUTTION BY CTP THAN THE FaOUIA OFFICE provierae, og 8 AMPNST

mene


a
ee
4 i

a 3 G3 neg oO ecromre TER : :

H
'
. : : { : a ‘
: 3 H
conr: “roy "FILE : +f pants acest i 4
,
: ue : O! ens : ' '
ON yurs POSADA VTA: crR-24N-76 ON 22 OCT 14976. : 3 No ADDITIONAL taronina- j
TION. IS AVAILABLE ON MANUEL PORRO- ORLANDO wunez NABY: BE IDENTICAL ‘
TO ORLANDO NUN E Z PEREZ» une ACCORDING TO: THE RECORDS OF THIS |
AGENCY, IS A cuaan’ EXILE RESIDING XN COSTA RICA. AND SERVING AS PRESS 1
SECRETARY a costa RICAN PRESIDENT sose FT 6 UER E s. AS oF |
MARCH 3972- "MART RIVADILLA. may BE TOENTICAT ) TH mnt R TVAe t
H
puULLA CARCEDOs ppopt “CIRCA 39305 “cues. IN-3952 A Peary ReLTasLe
+ SOURCE SAID THAT He WAS A COMMUNIST MEMBER OF THE NatTONAL EXECUTIVE |
COUNCIL OF THE ORTHODOX CunBAN PEOPLE'S PART PPC? AND CHIEF Of THE ;
PROPAGANDA BUREAU: of THE ORTHODOX: YOUTH. AN ARB or THE. PPCs wa | i (
t
|
\
i
i
4

3970 PRESS ARTICLE BASED. ON nrenvicus UITH RIVADULLAS HE CLAIMED TO

, Wave BEEN IHPRISONED IN CUBA’ FROM 2962 ‘TOM FOR ANTI“CASTRO * ‘
JACTEVITIES. HE Lert CUBA IN 2970. INA us EUSPAPER INTERVICUS
REVADULLA CLAIMED, To BE A JOURNALIST LIVING TNCTHE DONENZCAN REPUBLIC
srnce 2970 AND A nenBeR OF THE. INTER-AMERICAN: PRESS ASSOCIATION
WOREING POR THE PREEDON OF NEUSTIEN. INPRISCNES 28 CUE IH ANTHEA
THICRVICD. IN 3978 He CLAINED TO HAVE ACTIVELY OPPOSED: THE PULGENCTO
Oa t rsa ncoane AND BACKED prpek CA

TR oe) gut OECANE

+ eanaaneeg Orvee  Qunenyearee ernsend
‘AUPRODUCTION.OY OrMEn THAN THE (SUING

: 5 eoremeatoe ervest
Proweirto . a : , POET



- OF POREIGN APPATRS:

OUTGOING ‘“ESSAGE

eraman canter 880M
o ere

a a er ee

eaanecanien : .

Si cRET : : ete

Metesee nance wwearen earemmaenove re 4 eevenee meracants meen

i a one Dissae Oe ees : 4
conn Wros FILE papain : : ;
mene PER ’

937064:

ere Cg
- prstutusronep UITH THE CASTRO REGINE. IW 1974 HE UAS REPORTED oo BE
A&W RADIO AND TELEVISION COMMENTATOR IN THE DOMENECAN “REPUBLIC.
IN MOVEMBER 2975. A MOMAN LIVING IN WIANI WHOSE. on Is “CURRENTLY thre 7

i ie 7

A PRISONER IN CUBA ADVISED A CONTACT OF THIS AGENCY THAT RIVADULLA,HAD :
BEEN IN PRISON WITH. “HER SON. THEY HAD PROMISED ‘ACK OTHER THAT THE
FIRST ONE TO BE RELEASED WOULD: dO ALL IW. HIS Pol | TO OBTAIN THE
FREEDON or THE OTHER. IN THIS; CONNECTIONS RIVADULLA FURNISHED aid Me
THE MOTHER OF THE deel THE: NAMES QF A WOMAN 4 u) New YORK CITY WHO
PROMISED TO GET THE SONR OUT OF JAIL. IN RETURN: oR PAYHENT, OF UeSe aT :
25,000. THE uonan’ 1S MARTA ) THONEZ A
CRTOED IN AGENCY RECORDS as veRY CLOSE TO FID!

NEZ. UHOMTS DES? o
CASTRO. AN OPPORTUN= » 2°

'E8te IRRATIONAL’ AND UNPREDICTABLE. HER estranceD HUSBAND» BERNAL
‘TARTS PAYADS 1s REPORTEDLY AW CUAN GENERAL DIRECTORATE: oF. on
ZNTELLIGENCE en, OFFICER: ‘UEnENtE ts ATTACHED: To THE CUBAN NINISTRY

AND IS FREQUENTLY A DELEGA’
AssenaLy. = : s-
44b08. DATED 27 JUNE 2474, CONTAINS Apprrrowal NF ORTATION ON #EVAS
DULLAs NO ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 3% AVATLABLI ’
arts 2 i

ene oe

o UNITE



3 H

i

VsIGUING MESSAGE
ri :

. ManaL cunan ves ory : 3
wee we “ i
or go o.oo 0, 9 OO Oo EE
eater Pt : Steer
SECRET : ; | 3
Cttestt meme mocares ;  SAremeenow om 8 munpsnemeresanct mses '
r y j
+ CONF: c ee é 4 pov OISSEM BYE : ;
{ i O acrumre PER d
7 fe ; i “4 ;
7 Denn @ bd :

dE CASTRO. ¥ 2g '

Jr: CLASSIFIED av RECORDED: REPORTING OFFICER. EXEnPT FROWN
GENERAL. DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 31b52s EXEnP-
Tr0N CATEGORY 5B. 42). IMPOSSIBLE. 70 DETERMINE are OF AUTOMATIC
DECLASSIFICATION. CLASSIFIED ey ‘ouzass. da

¢ 4

PILE: Sb-8-238 Sh- 38 202-282b948 20L-28229
WUObSS 202-9203334 2or-2eaa%2-"

oy

aGespD0
Cates €3/0G__
ae eae CX/RaA

D> NOVEMNER 1976 :
pave FP. THOMPSUNIHEH = =
LMPNC/PAZR :



DATE: 5 OCTOBER 1976
CLASSIFICATION! CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ACCION CUTANA, (AC)

FAL FILE NOt 105-16193: (SAN JUAN) -

