“'404-10131-10014) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
7 :

D
4
i

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

ATTENTION 3: Mrs. Dorothy Turncr
Room 5503

FROM : Deputy Director of Security (Iavestigations
and Operationel Support)

SUBJECT : (saruey, maroua F.)(a)
#13006 oT

i. Qhis is to advise that e CIA Identification Card will be
issueé in the above captioned alias to an employee of T¥W. You
are requested to establish an indices card in the above alias in
order that the Office of Personnel will be in a position to eck-
nowledge any inquiries that might be received concerning the Subject.

2. Upon receipt of any inquiry, you are further requested
to promptly acknowledge Agency employment for such individual ani
then to advise the Chief, Cover Support Section of the Office of
Security, extension 6280 or 7380 or in the latters absence, Mr.
George Ladner, TFW/Security, extension 6055.

ees 00/c

eeeeeeen KUHNKE/efb :
a —! 6 November 1962-
‘ PENDING M/Rt See TFW memorandum dated 5 November 1962 which was con-
curred in by Moorhouse of CCS with the understanding that I would advise
- ——: Mr. Bannerman of the action taken and obtain his approval upon the latters
| return on or about 9 November 1962. An exception was made in this case
to that CIA identification in alias will not be
/ Ju Amtegrees. The exception was granted because of

Subject 's positiad and long experience in matters of this nature
} and due to the fact that it will be strictly controlled and limited to .
— | assignment which will be directly by Mr. Harvey.



REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SECRET
(When Filled tn)

DATE PREPARED

24, Odtober 1962

NAME (Lost-First-Middle)

SWEYSON, Herold F.

SERIAL NUMBER | 2.

6229

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGEMENT

[4cerrective cate ReqvesteD] 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

MONTH

pay YEAR

| | REGULAR

vToV v To CF

8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by
Office of Personne!)

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE
ABLE

cr TOV cr To CF

6. FUNDS >

31 32—1000—1000

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP
Tesk Force W
Offices of the Chief

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

Washington, D.C.

" RBRE Fan OFF

OPS OFF (D BR CH) (D)

12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

0663

SS IFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.)

Gs Qs)

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

136.01

14. C4

7 oye ay ae
15 (2)

18. REMARKS

1 ey Security

7 DATE SIGNED

+ SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

LOUIS W. ARMSTRONG, C/TFU/Pers.

SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING |DATE SIGNED
OFFICER

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE

OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

5. ACTION [20. EMPLOY. | 21. OFFICE CODING fe2.STaTion | 23, 1wTeGRee

‘CODE cove

NUMERIC ALPHABETIC.

e, HOOTRS,

[27. DATE OF LEI

|

25. OKTE OF BIRTH | 26, DATE OF GRADE
cone

mo. Ok, YR,

28.NTE EXPIRES 29, SPECIAL

RETIREMENT DATA 3, SEPARATION]

32. CORRECT

33. SECURITY
REO. NO,

REFERENCE DATA CODE

co0e 7

T= cst
3
5

ve

FICK
35, VET, PREFERENCE | 36. SERV, COMP, DATE

38. CAREER CATEGORY

39, FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE

Cs ee wR,

Sens
Lowe. cow, OATE
prior] | |

| | PROV/TEMP

ODE

cove.

O = waiver [wcarrm ims. cove
te ves

mo. oe. yn, | cAR/RESY
Wt, PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA fe2steave car. | 43.

FEDERAL TAX

DATA on STATE TAX DATA

one
‘coe Form ExecuTeo]
1 ves

2-H0

= No PREVIOUS sevice
= mo oREAK tw seaviCe

l2 = sneak 1m seavice (Less txaw 3 YRS)
Ja = aneaK IW seavice (MORE THAN 3 YRS)

ls

‘CODE.

FORM EXECUTED

Po. Tar cxEMPT IONS

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

FoRM
4.62

OBSOLETE Previous coITiow
AD romu 11524.

1152 SEC!

46. 0.P. APPROVAL

DATE APPROVED

art |
Extloted tro entemali<

tet.

’ w

