104-10234-10127} {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
Aye ; CSertssssen

AMTHEO-2
MGE # (UNNUMBERED - POSSIBLY #32 in SEQUENCE)
DATED: 8 MARCH 1966

RECEIVED CUR pes: 23 MARCH 1966 >
SC ee

\
; “ih
: 4. ALTHOUGS CONTACTS HAVE BEEN BADZ WITH CAHAGUZYANOS NO OZE a
KNOWS AIBOUT:WASS ARRESTS IN THE CAMAGUEY PROVINCE RECENTLY. ONE
CONTACT “SI" BPT “SI" TOLD KE THAT HE UNDERSTOOD THERE HAD BEEN
ARRESTS IN HOLGUIN (ORIENTE). I WILL CONTINUE INVESTIGATING.

5, ALTHOUGH THE RUMORS CIRCULATE INCREASINGLY SINCE THS AEREST
OF CUBELA I HAVE BREN ABLE TO CONFIRM WITH MORE OR LESS CERTAINTEY
: THR FOLLOWING: THE RAUL - FIDEL CONFLICT HAS INTENSIFIED TO SUCH
AN EXTENT SINCE THE CUBAN-CHINESE CONFLICT THAT DIRECT CONTROL BY
FIDEL OF THE ARMED FORCKS (FAR) 139 CONSIDERED CERTAIN. RAUL REACHED
THE POINT OF REQUESTING THE RESIGNATION OF RAMIRO VALDES BUT THE
LATTER REPLIED THAT ONLY FIDEL COULD REMOVE HIM, CORROBORATING THIS

CONFLICA AMONG THE MILITARY, I CAN SAY THAT A FRIEND OF MINE
i
WITNESSED IN MARIANAO, IN THE FULL LIGHT OF DAY, LAST THURSDAY

seevcopeengtanctes Mae cee Ne

Bement


Hee : Hite a
MGE DTD 8 MAR 66 - -2- i AMTHEO-2

Z MARCH 19667 AN AUTOMOBILE OF THE G-2 ORDER 2 MOTORCYCLE POLICEMEN
TO OVERTAKE ANOTHER AUTOMOBILE WHICH CARRIED 5 FAR OFYICERS. THE
H LATTER WERE DISARMED BY MEMBERS OF THE G-2 AND THEN CARRIED OFF
UNDER ARREST IN THE 2 CARS,

G. FAUREY’ CHAUMONT (SIC) /FAURE CI:CMON7 HAS DISAPPEARED,
: (SOMB PEOPLE SUPPOSE THAT HE IS IN AN EMBASSY).

| 7. THE UNIVERSITY ZHAVANA UNIVERSITY7 IS AGITATED BY THE

a COMMUNISTS WHO ARB SUPPORTERS OF CUBELA. |
ghia meme sp eee eens eC

: i pet aA 8. AND FINALLY, HOST OF THE PRISONERS WHO WERE IN THE G-2
(VILLA. "HARISTA") WERE TRANSFERRED TO LA BABANA IN ORDER TO FILL IT i

WITH NEW PRISONERS.

GREETINGS,
LEO

2 - CC's TO RUTH FRALLIC FoR REPORTS
~- CC - CUBELA FILE

1 = CC ~ RAUL CASTRO FILE |

1 - CC — PIDSL CASTRO FILE n

y

1 - CC - FAURE CHOON FILE

pe ye PmLpse cat i

| en |
_i@e. | he
|
|
i

lL.
