‘04-10326-10099|

=

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

SECRET
SENSIND: PAGE

CONF: CIC/LA INFO: CIDORECORD, CTC/IFC, CTC/TA, FBIOUT, MDSX,
WHTC/LA, ODPD, FILE, C/CIC, C/GTC, C/LA/RBS, C/PCS, CIC/OG, CTC/TRG,
lepc/TRGPSB, DC/LA/RBS, LA/AGCN-2, LA/CCG-2, LA/MCGMXB-2, PCS/CL, pcs/ID,
(18/P)

93 1832904 MSP PAGE 001
ToT: 200551% MAR 93 CIA 900219

2005512 CIA/DDO 900219
to: PRIORITY FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

arty: [______|| CHIEF OF DOMESTIC TERRORISM UNIT

WARNING NOTICE - INTELLIGENCE SOURCES OR METHODS INVOLVED -
NOFORN NOCONTRACT

FROM: CIC/LA INFO LA/CCG
CIR 316/01013-93

SUBJECT: ANTI-CASTRO MOVEMENT "PARTIDO UNIDAD NACIONAL
DEMOCRATICO"

REF: NONE

1. THIS ACENCY IS FORWARDING TRACES ON DR CARLOS MANUEL DE
CESPEDES Y DE QUESADA AND OTHER CUBAN IMMIGRANTS INVOLVED WITH THE
“PARTIDO UNIDAD NACIONAL DEMOCRATICO" (PUND), AS PROMISED AT THE 16
MARCH 1993 MEETING WITH THE DIRECTOR OF CUBAN AFFAIRS FOR THE

DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND OFFICERS FROM YOUR BUREAU.

2. AS REPORTED AT THE 16 MARCH MEETING, THIS AGENCY HAS NO
CONNECTION WITH PUND, AND HAS NEVER PROVIDED THEM WITH ANY SUPPORT OR
ENCOURAGEMENT. THIS AGENCY'S BRIEF ASSOCIATION WITH MANUEL DE
CESPEDES BEGAN IN MARCH 1990 WHEN HE SOUGHT US OUT AND WHO, AFTER

TSREPRESENTING HIMSELF AT THE START, IN 1991 ACKNOWLEDGED HIS PUND
‘CONNECTIONS AND SOLICITED THIS AGENCY'S SUPPORT. HE WAS TURNED DOWN
CoLD AND THE CONTACT WAS DROPPED.

3. CARLOS MANUEL DE CESPEDES Y DE QUESADA, BORN 08 DECEMBER
jo4S IN HAVANA, CUBA, IS A MEDICAL DOCTOR SPECIALIZING IN GERIATRICS.
WAS TRAINED IN SPAIN AND IS NOW OWNER-DIRECTOR OF THE "CARLOS

MANUEL DE CESPEDES CENTER", A MEDICAL CLINIC IN MIAMI. DR. DE
GESPEDES MAKES NO BONES ‘ABOUT HIS HIGH POLITICAL ASPIRATIONS IN A
BOST-CASTRO_ GOVERNMENT IN CUBA. HE CLAIMS THAT HIS FATHER’S
WEADERSHIP IN CUBA HAS PREPARED HIM WELL FOR HIS OWN POLITICAL
CAREER .-

ESPEDES"CLAIMED TO HAVE. ORGANIZED PUND (THE
LE) WITH HIS FRIEND SERGIO GONZALEZ ROSQUETE. pul

~ SECRET



13-00000

» CLAIMED THAT HE AND Gol ALLY €
THE: PAREY;—ALTHOUGH THERE ARE OCCASTONAL~1 ORINION
BETWEEN THE TWO. DE CESPEDES DESCRIBED GONZALEZ AS "ONE WHO FOUGHT
ti THE SIERRA MAESTRAS", AND WHO HAD BEEN A CLOSE FRIEND OF HIS
FATHER. DE CESPEDES WAS THE "DELEGATE " OF THE PARTY, AND GONZALEZ
was THE "MILITARY ADVISOR". THE SECRETARY OF THE PUND WAS ALFREDO
RNANDEZ GAMEZ. THE TWO SUBDIRECTORS WERE AMANCIO ABELAIRAS AND
RAMON PUIG.

5. SERGIO FRANCISCO GONZALEZ ROSQUETE WAS BORN

on|24 JULY 1938 IN CAMAGUEY, CUBA. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION ON
GONZALEZ HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM A REPORT BY A SOURCE OF UNKNOWN
REWIABILITY. GONZALEZ JOINED THE CASTRO FORCES IN 1958 AND FOUGHT
WIMH THEM FOR ONE YEAR. IN 1959 HE BECAME A PILOT IN THE CUBAN AIR
FORCE. ON 4 NOVEMBER 1960 GONZALEZ DESERTED THE AIR FORCE AND JOINED]
TH! | 30TH OF NOVEMBER GROUP (MRTN), AN ANTI-CASTRO GROUP. HE WAS
JARRESTED ON 6 FEBRUARY 1961 FOR ANTI-REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES AND WAS
SENTENCED TO 12 YEARS IN PRISON. WHILE ON PAROLE FROM CIEGO DE AVILA
N 21 DECEMBER 1968, GONZALEZ AND NINE OTHERS ESCAPED IN A 20 FOOT
\ILBOAT FROM MORON, CAMAGUEY. GONZALEZ AND HIS COMPANIONS WERE
UED BY THE U.S. COAST GUARD AND TAKEN TO MIAMI. GONZALEZ LEFT
WIFE BEHIND IN CUBA; SHE WAS IN THE LAST MONTHS OF A PREGNANCY Aq
TIME. IN 1969 GONZALEZ WAS IDENTIFIED AS A COORDINATOR THE THE

| 6 ACCORDING TO A SOURCE OF UNKNOWN RELIABILITY, ALFREDO
IRUPERTO FERNANDEZ GAME WAS EMPLOYED AT THE HAVANA CUSTOMS OFFICE IN
IMExTCO CITY IN APRIL 1960. THERE IS NO FURTHER INFORMATION ON HIM

7, AMANCIO ABELAIRAS MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH AMANCIO JESUS
IARELAIRAS, BORN 18 NOVEMBER 1935. ACCORDING TO INFORMATION DATED
96), ABELAIRAS WAS PROCESSED BY THIS AGENCY FOR POSSIBLE USE IN
PARAMILITARY RELATED ACTIVITIES. THERE IS NO EVIDENCE TO INDICATE
‘SHA HE WAS EVER UTILIZED IN ANY CAPACITY BY THE AGENCY. THE FILE
SUGGESTS, HOWEVER, THT HE MAY HAVE BEEN RECOMMENDED FOR TRAINING AND
THAT SHORTY AFTERWARDS HE MAY HAVE BEEN DETERMINED TO BE MENTALLY
UNHIT TO CONTINUE SUCH TRAINING. YOU ARE ALSO REFERRED TO THE DRUG
ENRORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION FOR POSSIBLE INFORMATION CONCERNING
ABELAIRAS .

6. RAMON PULG MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH VICTOR RAMON PUIG, JR.,
BORN 20 AUGUST 1938 IN HAVANA,CUBA. ALL THE INFORMATION THIS AGENCY
HAS ON VICTOR RAMON PUIG I§ 1960 INFORMATION FROM YOUR BUREAU. PUIG
WAS ADMITTED TO THE UNITED STATES AT MAIMI, FLORIDA, ON 22 DECEMBER
1945. FROM 1945 TO 1955 HE MADE NUMBEROUS TRIPS TO CUBA AND FROM
55-1957 HE RESIDED IN CURA. ON 6 JANUARY 1958 HE WAS AGAIN AN
APPLICANT FOR ADMISSION AS A PERMANENT RESIDENT. HE WAS ADMITTED TO
THR UNITED STATES AT MIAMT, FLORIDA AS A PERMANENT RESIDENT (0-1
CLASSIFICATION ON 6 JANUARY 1958.

9. IN FEBRUARY 1993 YOUR MIAMI FIELD OFFICE MET WITH OUR
LAYMIAMT STATION ON THE PUND AND THE NAMES FRANK STURGIS, GONZALEZ Of
PARA 2 ABOVE, JUSTO—REGALADO: REZ7—AND TONY GA ae
LOWING 1 ON OUR FELES CONTAIN ©!



13-00000

SECRET

10.

FRANK STURGIS (AKA FRANK FIORINI) IS FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS,
BORN 09 DECEMBER 1924 IN NORFOLK, VIRGINIA, AN AMERICAN MERCENARY AND
SOLDIER OF FORTUNE LONG INVOLVED IN ANTI-CASTRO AND CUBAN EXILE
ACTIVITIES AND CONVICTED IN CONNECTION WITH THE WATERGATE BREAK-IN.
OVER A PERIOD OF YEARS STURGIS HAS CLAIMED A CIA RELATIONSHIP AS
EMPLOYEE OR AGENT BUT THERE HAS NEVER BEEN ANY SUCH RELATIONSHIP
MID. L977 STURGIS WAS PROMOTING A Z000 W CUBAN E-GROUE_TO_ BE.

T TO ANGOLA TO OVERT: WERNMENT/ HE WAS UNSUCCESSFUL IN
HIS-EFFORTS7IN-NOVEMBER 1977 HE WAS ARRESTED WHILE ATTEMPTING TO
COERCE A U.S. GOVERNMENT WITNESS FOR GIVING CONGRESSIONAL

*INVESTIGATORS DETAILS ABOUT STURGIS’ ALLEGED RELATIONSHIP WITH<LEE>
*<HARVEY: OSWALD. >

A i. JUSTO REGALAD JSTO-GRACILIANO
GALADO>—THE-ONLY_1N! NHEHIS AGENCY HAS ON GRACILIANO
IGALADO COMES FROM YOUR BUREAU IN WHICH YOU REPORT THAT "ON
MARCH 5, 1980 JUSTO GRACILIANO REGALADO WAS INTERVIEWED CONCERNING
STATUS AS AN EX-POLITICAL PRISONER FROM CUBA. GRACILIANO WAS
BCRN AUGUST 12, 1945 IN SANCTI SPIRITUS, CUBA. GRACILIANO WAS

IMPRISONED IN CUBA FROM AUGUST 10, 1962 UNTIL JUNE 1979. GRACILIANO

ENTERED THE UNITED STATES ON AUGUST 29, 1979 AND HAS INS NUMBER A23
344 543."

12. YOUR BUREAU FURTHER REPORTED THAT GRACILIANO IDENTIFIED ONE
MODESTO ALVAREZ AS A POLITICAL PRISONER WHO ALLEGEDLY WAS A CUBAN

TATE SECURITY INFORMER DURING HIS IMPRISONMENT. YOUR REPORT
CONTINUES THAT MODESTO ALVAREZ WAS ALLEGEDLY ARRESTED DURING 1967 IN
CUBA FOR AN ABORTIVE ASSASSINATION PLOT AGAINST FIDEL CASTRO.
GRACILIANO MET ALVAREZ IN LA CABANA PRISON DURING 1967 AND IN PINAR
DE}, RIO PRISON DURING 1971-1978. ALVAREZ WAS SEEN BY FELLOW INMATES
PROVIDING PRISON OFFICIALS WITH WRITTEN MESSAGES AND INFORMATION .

13. IT WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE TO IDENTIFY "TONY GARCIA" WITHOUT
MORE BIO DATA.

CLASSIFIED BY SIGNER. DECL OADR DRV
NOCONTRACT. >

efug: 201-1474629, 201-0242256.
oREG._CIC/LA| 39380.) cfpascce.|
5 c/PCS/LEG/ID | | INDEX:

HUM 4-82 NOFORN

“END OF MESSAGE SECRET

SECRET
