# 104-10216-10020

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10216-10020

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CACLE SECRETARIA? DISSEMINATION

CLASSITIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES UY SI

genied ins

GROUP!

No: 36: 105016-019958

realise

ISSUED

SLORILA

PREPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

POTING ANDICE 18. TIALS-SEEN BY

51

8

.. is

52020 :1

+-Asterind

DISSEN

ACTIONLUNTT

28

PIR

шH8

ACTIOR. Or

FILE, VR

RYAN, CAS. CA/PEG CAPeROR COPS apEs. Fl.

644

SECRET 032107Z SEP 71 CITE MEXICO CITY 17586

DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI

1-201-Curkets

TYPIC MHSPAWN AMSTRUT

10 KDGLACIERS MAVE ADVISED THAI ARTURO

3SEP NN4 | 6568

CHAUMONT HAS BEEN GRANTED SIX MONTH NON-

IMMIGRANT VISA TO WORK AS CHIEF BUYER FOR

PERFORACIONES S.A., OWNED BY AMSTRUI-8. OUR UNDER-

STANDING FROM SLOMAN IS THAT CHAUMONT WAS MEMBER OF

CRIGINAL GRANIA EXPEDITION WHO ATTEMPTED COMMIT

SUICIDE WHEN CAUGHT BY BÎTISTA FORCES.. THIS

APPARENTLY CAUSED PERMANENT DAMAGE TO HIS MIND, BUT

SUBJECT WAS KEPT ON BECAUSE OF SENSE OF LOYALTY TO HIM

ON PARI OF FIDEL AND RAUL. IF THIS CORRECI SUGGEST WE

HAVE UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY FOR PROP PLAY THAT WOULD BE

ESPECIALLY DAMAGING TO CASTRO BROTHERS: CAMSTRUI-16

REPORTS THAT RAUL CA SIR O PERSONALLY INTERVENED

TO GET CHAUMONT HIS VISA TO VISII MEXICO.)

2: REQUEST UH/MAIMI SURFACE ABOVE STORY THROUGH

ONE OF THEIR ASSETS. WE SURE THAT IT WILL BE PICKED

...

201-25223

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CABLE

SECRETARIAE DISSEMINATICN

FIASON UNIT ANTiAIRO

1-ANCE COM

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPILS

SECRET

GROUPI

When Filled In "T25

REPRODUCTIRE OF T!:IS COFY PROMIBITEO

ROUTIRIS ANDION INITIRLESELM BY

5

6

3

DISSEM. BY.

ACTION UNIT

FILE, VR

ACTION NO.

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 17586 SECREI

UP BY INTERNATIONAL WIRE SERVICES AND THAT WE CAN THEN

ARRANGE FOR FOLLOW UP IN MEXICO WITH, HOPEFULLY, SOME

CHANCE OF INTERVIEW BY LOCAL PRESS. SUGGEST STORY

FOLLOW LINE THAT THINGS MUST BE PRETTY BAD IN CUBA

WHEN MEMBER OF GRANMA EXPEDITION WHO HAS DEMONSTRATED

SUCH LOYALTY TO FIDEL THAT HE ATTEMPIED 1J SACRIFICE

HIS LIFE FEELS HE CAN NO LONGER TOLERATE CASTRO CUBA.

ALSO SUGGEST WH/SIAMI CONSIDER BRINGING IN ROLE OF.

CHAUMONT IN ARREST AND TRIAL OF CURBELO TO INDICATE

THAT CHAUMONT NOW APPARENTLY THINKS CURBELO HAD THE

RIGHT IDEA.

3. FILE: 281-830856. GP-1.

SECRET

SECRET

Masince

723+944019515

---

