# 104-10229-10042

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10229-10042

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFE MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

-170

1öwiget

TO

• DIRECTOR

7А7PHOP

DEC 16

1834Z 61

ACTIONI

BELL 10/SHOVN TO COL. DOUGLAS, BELL, 1315 16 DEC

INCO, DD:, COP, ADDP/A, WH 5, S/C 2

""""

-"!?

stil

ROUTiNE

IN 39390, r

DIR CITE HAVE 0039

JIZIP XUCAGE

Pluses:

SO TALLOURNS ASSE PROP PLAS NO BURUET SONTANAUD PENELOPED

BY PASSAVOY AND WAVE FROM PROPOSALS OF AMBUD-1 AND ANCORE -2

AND ACCEPTED BY ANBUD-I:

A. CONTINUATION OF AMBUD SENI-LONTHLY GUIDANCE BULLETIN

(LA LUCAS SENT TO ALL LA COUNTRIES NOT SOXCEED $1D, 1000

MONTHLY.

B. NOJA PARA CUBA LEAFLET FAILING OP INTO TARGET COUNTRY.

LEAFLETS, AFTER PRIOR APPROAVAL LAVE, TO BE MAILED IN VARIED

SIZE AND TYPE ENVELOPES. ONE ICE SOSSIBLY THOS. ISSUES FONTHLY

$4,500.

C. GRAPHIC SERVICE: MAILING OF CARTIONS AND PHOTOS

TWICE WEEXLY TO 22 LA NEWSPAPERS SÖDE MONTHLY.

D. FEES TO SPECIAL WRITERE ANE CARTOONISIS FOR PARA AO..

SAND C ABOVE NOT EXCEED SIS2O HONTHLY.

É. THO SPOT TEN MINUTE RADIO BAOADCASTS WEETLY FROM

WAVE AREA STATIONS REACHING TAROET COUNTRY SASZ LONTHLY.

F. FUND FOR UNFORESEEN EXPENSES ADDITIONAL HOJAS PARA

CUBA AND INCIVIDUAL PROP PECUECZE SUSMITTSO FOR PRIOR APPROVAL

SY LAVE NOT TO EXCEED 53,300 ECHOEL! TOTAL OLL AZOVE CONTEL:

Batin?

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

---

## Page 2

335

CLASSIELED NESSAGE

SECRET

WAVE -

$9

IN

PAGE

coc: 522, 200.

20 EXACI ACCOUNTINGS WILL BE REQUIRED FOR ABOVE EXPENDITURES.

FUNDING AND ACCOUNTINGS WILL BE HANDLED THROUGH AMTIKI-I...

3. REGUEST PRIORITY HOS APPROVAL ABOVE PROP BUDGET AND

AUTHORIZATION EXPENDITURE $10,202 FOR SALANCE DECEMBER.:

END OF MESSAGE

REPROOUGTION BY OTHER

THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

