# 104-10186-10221

## Page 1

-00000

104-10186-10221

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AINFORMATIONL EPORTEHINFORM

TION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This matertai conraina lasornalina adraline the Marlonal Daleron of the t'alied Siales allhia the meanine al the replanago Lata TIllo

ia, ES C.

BArs TAS And 791, 1he CraDemiaon de rePelattón ol MAlCh In ADy mAnDer lo An UnauthOriaRa peraDa la prhiDited dy lade.

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEX

COUNTRY Cuba/Dominican Republic

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT Jose CASSA Lagrono

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS CI-316/02401-64

'1 December 1964

2

DATE OF

1964

RETURATO CIA

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE ACQ 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban.

Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes

Information from the records of this Agency.

supplemental

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

T/рV

Although source recognized a photograph of Jose CASSA

Lagrono, he could not recall any

pertinent data concerning

him.

When this Agency's representative suggested to source

that CASSA is a Dominican, source said he knew CASSA as a

Cuban, rather than a Dominican, although the latter is not

excluded.

Source added, however, that 1f CASSA is a

Dominican he

August 1963.1"ould not have arrived in Cuba until after

Headquarters Comment:

1. According to avallable information Jose CASSA Lagrono

born on 22 June 1916 in Santo Domingo and is

believed to be a Dominican citizen.

reported to be a member of the pro-Castro Agrupacion

Politica Catorce de Junio (APCJ - 14th of June Political

According to a usually reliable source CASSA

Domingo on 20 July 1963 for Panama City er

route to Mexico City to go to Habana to attend the 26tl

of July celebrations in 1963.

TDCS-3/554,908 reported

that an official travel manifest revealed

that CASSA

24

4

SECR'ET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ютадовлют

cortaration.

PFBI 2

1

STATE

DIA

ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

(Noté. field distribution indicared by "5".)

CINCSO #

TOCR/BR

I&NS (SENT TO SANTO DOMINGO)

16-10

INFORMATIONARERORI INFORMATION REPORT

HIL/SA/EOB I HE SE

2 CI/LIA

LLE CANADAL PLISDOS

1j LX-1825

HIL/SA/JOB' I HELADRI

12.CT /R&A

NO PROJECT (AMNUd/1;

2L 171/2/DR

11; CI/ICG/MIL 2 IN HASLEBRA

11

CSC1-316/02401-64

RID/iSi

WHI/SALCI

HII-BALE

PASA 7 (1), WF.

1 (2) C1 6, RID 1, HH 1 (1)

¡COROIMATING

11a110M.*

411/2/DR BS:L

ir e inori

in draft | clAs

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

mas one of 20 Dominicans who left Mexico City, by air, for Habana

on 26

JalI

1963.

On 22 August 1963, it was reported that CASSA

arrived ia Rio de Janeiro, by air, on a chartered Cubana Airllhes

plane frin Fabana.

(See TDCS-3/557,280).

On 4 October 1963, he

*as arrested by the Dominican Police and was to be deported fron

the Domi=ican Republic.

(see TDCS-3/561,119).

On 10 October 1963

El Carise daily newspaper, reported that CASSA vas deported on

9 October 1963 to Puerto Rico where he was detained by United

states irzigration authorities, but that he returned to santo

Domingo the same day. (see TDCS-3/561,495).

NO

SECRET

FOREIGN

DISSEM

..

---

