# 104-10054-10199

## Page 1

1104-10054-10199

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

LAD

vis.

11 March 1965

1X-2487

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

General: AMMUG/1 Debriefing Report #278

Specific- Luisa RODRIGUEZ Calderon/ Photograph

Surveillance of Cuban Consulate Mexico

City

1. On 9 February 1965, AVIMUG/1 identified a

photograph of Luisa RODRIGUEZ Calderon, who he stated

had been connected with the DGI (Directorio General de:

Inteligencia) and the former Secretary of the Young Com-

munists in the Cuban Ministry of Exterior Commerce.

According to AMIMUG/1; the Cuban Government thought

RODRIGUEZ had been recruited by the United States

Government while in Mexico so she was recalled to Cuba.

AMMUG/1 was not sure of the details but recalled something

concerning her having received a letter from an American

Further, AMIVUG/1 recalled something about an American

student who visited Cuba who was supposed to have made a

recruitment pitch to RODRIGUEZ or been associated in some

manner with a pitch made to her. AMMUG/1 did not know

the source of these alleged pitches.

2. This photograph is part of the survestlance of the

Cuban Consulate in Mexico City and was taken from Film

No. 293, Photograph 16, dated 12 December 1963.

3. WH/C/RR/s Comment: The photograph ot Luisa

CALDERON Carralero (201-734274) attached to HIVIMA-21612

was compared to the aforementioned photograph with the

result that both photos seem to be identi

/piccolo

WH/C/RR/OS

B. Stres.

:Ben Stotts

CAR/CARTOS 701734274

ES COPY

SECHET

02941

---

