# 104-10186-10187

## Page 1

104-10186-10187

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATIONAREPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

I8 U80 Bore

lood she the trademiera of permalin al thris la ans manner lu an unaultinod panara la purchibical diy l

SECRET

NO FOREIGS DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT

Luls PEREZ (alaly "Bruno Diaz"

and "El Polaco")

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSC1-316/00632-65

11 February 1965

CS-311/00115-64

‹page 10?

8 July 1965

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE & Washington,

D.

c.

DATE ACQ. DeCCHUer 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE BENIMITIVE

SOURCE,

RETIEH TO CIA

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligend Reproduct

Service untel April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the

personality reports without

first checking wiih this Agency.

alias 'Bruno Diaz" and "El Polaco," is a

army who heads the Departamento Escuelas

Especiales (Department of Special Schools - EE) in the

Direccion Gereral

de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI).

In 1959 he served in some Latin Ancrican

country as Military Attache.

PEREZ, & Caucastan,

Is five feel ten anches tall, weighs 170 pounds, and has

was born in approximately 1935, he

shroor bulld. He always dresses ta an olive green milllary

Headquarters Comment.

Source said that Luis PEREZ, above,

Martinez,

and Luis Jesus PEREZ,

subject of CSCI-316. 00716-64 of 9 September 1964

(traces

attached: hereto) are not identical.

3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

SIATE

I DIA

ARMY

NAVY

RE

I AIR

CINCLINT CINCSO & TRAS

Noto: field distribution indican to "=".)

I sisa

1 XKX

100R

FBI. 2.

INFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

WIL SL: EQB

Mi: SAR

12 CLARIA

15-2

3L6. /BA 1251 0

-UPTA 19020(9D666))

TOTALSHTI

-7

r.!

RIN Y

2

---

