# 104-10250-10192

## Page 1

104-10250-10192

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

15 FEB 1955

Chief, WH Division

ATTN : Mr. Joha Bonnet J03

Deputy Director of Security (Investigatione and Support)

Corliss LAMONT

#66901

1. This will confirm a recent discission between it. BONET)

of your sivision and a representetive of this affico relative to

the Federal Bureau of Investigation request that this Agency Inter=

View Balnes HIDALGO concerning fossible Conmunist Party membership

of CoTLiSS IRMONT, the Internationally-known leeturer and author.

2. Forwarded herewith is a proposed dispatch, originated by

to you propriet my be contleted by your Dirlsion and formarded

3:

This Office would appreciate being advised whenever the

reply 1$ received.

FOR THE DTRECTOR OF SECURITYS

Robert K.. Canninghan

Attachment

2 copies of pro-

posed dispatch

CC.

#65077.

W.

SHORTLEY 'mla

2/9/55

BOS/1&S

SJD, Chiet

Deo

Chief

to

Chief

10

Dop.

Tina.

i.v

Sup.

Br.

C8R Br.

Desk

Or Ce

Ogep De:

S5D Files.

65077

---

## Page 2

SECRET

1. THE FBI HAS KEQUESTED THAT BALMES, DALCO BE INTERYLENED

RELATIVE TO ANY KNOWLEDGE HE MAY HAVE GONCERNING POSSIBLE COMMUNIST

PARTY HEMEERSHIP OF CORGISS MAONTO

THE INTERNATTONALLY-KNOM LECTUR

ER AND AUTHOR. LAMONT IS A FORMER CHAIRMAN OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL

OF AMERICAN-SOVIET FRIENDSHIP.

2. IF HIDALDO HAS NO PERSONAL, ONLEDGE DE LAYONT'S COM UNTST

PARTY MEMBERSHTP, THE FBI HAS RECUESTED THAT RE BE ASKED FOR THERE

OF ANT INDIVIDUALS WHO HE MIGHT THINK WOULD BE IN A POSITION LO TURNTSE

INFORMATION OF TAIS NATURE

THE TELE RAS REQUESTED THAT THIS INCUTRE OF. THEI RIS. BERKER

CONFIDENTIAL

• 1.

YOU ARE

ORE, REQUESTED TO INTERVIEW BALMES HIDALOO AND

DETERMINE WHETHER PICCHAS ANY KNOILEDER CONCERNINO CORLISS LAMONT'S ME

MEMBERSHIP IN THE COMMUNIST PARTY AND/OR, WHETHER HE COULD TURMISE THE.

NAMES AND OTHER IDENTIANG DATA OF INDIVIDUALS WHO MIGHT BE IN A POSI

TION TO FURNISH SUCH INFORMATION

56

AN EARLY REFISHOULD BE APPRECIATED

SECRET

---

