{404-10186-10214|

Sipy

ps 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. RENNEDY, ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
E j uv: 4

‘Toe averted eoosaine

COUNTR Cuba

SUMIECT

DATE
INFO,

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

tmfcrmatwe Aferuing the Metional Defenas of tbe Caited Sate within the ovening of the Bekoage Lace Tre
AA UBC Boca MS aod TH tae trecmmamnce Of freeietion of which te any ALEC WY AR UnAUIRErIEd perwe i proDibted Wy Re '

SECRET
NO -FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO. CSC1-316/00485-68

Osvaldo RELOBA Penechet, DATE OTR «= 4 February 1965 |
Alias “Wilberto” |
NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES CSCI-316/00704-64 : |
1 September 1964 |
ee

oF
1964

mace aWashington, D. C.
bate aca. January 1965 FAD REPORT NO.

SOURCE:,

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED NFOSAATION. SOURCE ORACINOS ABE OETINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATWE, oO ok )
\

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence yas eo
Service until April 1964. ew co VEE"
KO CLP

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a seri@s containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
informat{on from the records of this Agency.

It is requestei that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Upon being requeried concerning additional information
on fhu RELOVA, source reported that his name ts actually
Osvaldo RELQBA Penechet, alias "Wilberto.” He is an officer
in the Departmento Ilegal (Illegal Department) of the Direccion
General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence -
DGI), RELOBA carries a carnet of the Cuban Ministry of Interior.
In approximately November 1963, he traveled to Jamaica, Canada,
and Mexico. He carries a diplomatic passport.

2. RELOBA is a Cuban citizen and was born in 1930, He is
five feet eight inches tall, weighs 160 pounds, and has a
medium build. He has a white complexion, chestnut brown hair,
is partially bald, has a thin face, and wears a fine, thin
moustache. He drives a 1956 Pontiac. RELOBA is married.1

Headquarters ae

1. (Official Cedvel information in the records of this Agency
feveal that one Osvaldo RELOVA Penichet, probably identical
with Osvaldo RELOBA Penechet, traveled from Cuba to Mexico in
June 1963, from Mexico to Cuba in July 1963, from Mexico to
Canada to Cuba in September 1963, and from Cuba to Canada
in October 1963; he carried passport No, D63/415,

SECRET or
NO FOREIGN DISSEX eS

meee

sare

Tow Tater Travy Ta Tx pres Toct TFB!
REP CINCLANT _CINCSO # TENS

Take oll disnibvtion indcared by 7272

73:
7S

o1 “LX=2 1X
AMO) — io P ROECT (ARNG MD :

WHS.

wis.

i¥ a0 it ne
AZR_IT eo ’ =e aty

ACL. 18 a
ee aa

sa
WHA 8 (1), Wi @), o 4, RID1 ions

mR xO

201-797138,

meres

