# 104-10074-10325

## Page 1

1104-10074-10325

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

• UNCLASSIFIED

MIERNAL

USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

'SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

#USJECT: (Opliorol)

Biographic Summary Report on: BAUMBACH, Charlea Re

EXTENSION

NO.

€1-1171

CI/OP

ROber

9477

DAis

26 July 1967

1O: (Oriene dosignation, room number, and

bui.ding)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Numbor each comment to show from whom

so whom.

Drom a line across column after each comment.)

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1.

Prepared by: (Nick Chickering)

3.

S.

Distribution:

1 - Orig. for Final Report

Typing

1 - CI Task Group Biographic

Summaries

:. 1 - Subject File

al-Exchrono

:?.

: 3..

B10GED SECRET

CONFIGZNTIAL

iNTERMAL

USE ONLY

UNGLASSIFLES

# 09817

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

RETHAN TO CIA

Background Uses

Do Not Reproduc

72X-1171

$26 July 1967

BAUMBACH, Charles R.

1. Charles R. BAUMBACH Is Listed' as the Executave Officer for

the Institute for Policy Studies In Wasbington, D. Cu

2. FBI reporte reveal that Charles BAUMBACH of 1216 EntrAth

Street, Chicago, Minol was an Assoclate Faltor of New Univorely

Thought in 1961. New University Thought, located In 1961 at 909 East

55th Street, Chicago, Minole utilized a malling address of 5478 South

Woodlawa Avenue, Chicago. In the Spring Lasag Lasag the editorial stated,

WE Young Intellectual studenter and proicestonal.

founded Nev

University Thought because we are aissatlefied with, what ve

During March 1961, Sen thou and coples of hit publicitory S

Ness Pree, mateh to the pratian time pilmard coldern the

printing of "Ludove Novlay" and "Nova Dobase both of hich a greporld

to be Communist-dominated publications

The Wes of this Agency reveal that la Auguet 1962 NowAdalveralty

Thought published an abridged yere loa of Paklatan Today OB-lah

pablication whose editor, Hanza Alavi (also Spelled Mvi), Is well known

for bla Communlot vlews. This abridgement, entied "Pakistan The

Burden of U.S. Ald", in described as easily the most damaging plece of

SECRET

# 09817

---

## Page 3

14-00

SECRET

work to the U.S. Ald Program ever seen.

*One of the Astociate Editors, David Charles HALPERIN

(201-280321), the son of American Communlet Maurice HALPERIN-

(201-128561) wrote a letter on New University Thought letterhead date

10 March 1961 to Albert MALTZ (201-005329) and his wife, Margaret.

both members of the American Communlit Group living in Mexico.

Charles HALPERIN had contact with both the MALIZe and with Anna

and Noah SEBORER while In Mexico City for the Christmas Holidays in

1960. Anne SEBORER, a suspected Soviet egent, and Noah SEBORER

are both American Communiete lylag In Mexico City.

Agency traces.

as indicated la the attachment, were negative.

Based on;

The Firet Three Zenro 1963-1966, Opamphlet

of the Inatitate for Pollcy Stadied, 1900 Florida

Avenue N. WeS Washlngton,-D.C.

J5l reply to payme Check 1230% dated

29 March 1967607

DBA-34660

- 05 March 1963

6561-31774935

25 Februasy 1963

• HACA-16639

10 March 1961

- KX-1526 MEMO dated 16 July 1963

Prepared by

Tick Chickerings

93 CI/Staff

25 July 1967

SECRET:

---

## Page 4

14.00.000

SECRETI

Date: 2630151967

NAME CHECK RESULTS

Subject: BAUMBACH, Charles R.

Organization: Lastitute lot Policy Studiea

DOB:

201 #:

OA:

Not Checked

Appl.: Not Checked

DC S:

Not Checked

CCS:

Not Chocked

O/S:

-(dated 28 April 1967)

FI/D:

Not Checked

S/R:

Zombie: Not Checked

SIG:

Not Chocked

Key:

Hit

? =

Possible

= Negative

Other:

SECRET

---

