# 104-10186-10238

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10238

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION REPO RT

INFORMATION-REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

mie malerial ooalAlna Iafarmalina ARecllas lDe MAlloDál Deterin ot lha Unltod Blalre olthia the maanlas dl lDe liplonago Lama, TillI

A, U.9.C. Dora 791 dad Isl, lba tratamiaaon on porolaltos al untea la uny mander lo ai unaulbonned person le prohibllas dy law

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba:

• REPORT NO.

SUNJECT Reinaldo MARTINEZ Garcia

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/01219-64

23 Septembor 19641P

800.

RETURN TO

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE & Washington,D.C. -

DATE ACQ. September

1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INTORMATION.

JOURCE ORAOINOS ARE DEFINITIVE

•APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE, A former

Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligonce

Service 'antil Aoril 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a sertes containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information Irom the rocords of this Agency.

t is requested that the addressees tako no action on any o

he individuals montioned in the personality reports withou

first checking with this Agency.

1.

Reinaldo MARTINEZ Garcia was a policeman and worked at the

Department of Investigations until 1963.

ne is working for tho Cuban Telephone Companythe present time

2. MARTINEZ, a mulatto, was born about 1939, 1s five feet

inches tall, 135 pounds, has a slim build, and kinky hair.l,z,

Headquarters Comments

l. Included with a report dated 19 October 1960, was a list of

policemen who would be taking a course given by the

Departamento Tecnico de Investigaciones (Technical Department •

of Investigations - DTI) of the Cuban National Revolutionary

Police. Appearing on the list was Renaldo MARTINEZ Garcia.

2.

In February 1961, a fairly reliable source who was employed

by the Departamento Tecnico de Investigaciones (DTI) gave a

representative of this Agency a copy of an official roster:.

Garcia, serial number 25925, grade 18, with a monthly salary

$30.

SECRET

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

oharr

3

2

STATE

I DIA

REP

ARMY

CINCLANT

ndkared by "#".)

I NAVY

CINCSO #

AIR

IRNS

NSA

IXXSX

OCR

IFBI 2

LON

REPORT

NUL/SA/EOBL

HELS/R

MHLSAVON

HE/BADR

NH/SALR

WH/SAICI

WHLWIVE

2

cIVisa

LEACINADAL

IELBRICIST

WHÄSHFBII

RIDLAS

LX-1690

NO PROJECT (AMMUG/1)

CSCI-316/01219-64

fonomartiDaia

3IBR.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

i......ià

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM CSC1-316/0121046•8

- 2-

In a report dated 18 Nay 1962.

an untested source stated that

Renado NARTiNEZ Garcia. o

member of the Departamento Tornico

(DTI), was a Cosmunist of opportunity.

said that KISTINEZ was

awout 1937, weighed 130 pounds, is

five feet sine inches tall, and has dark broun hair and dark oyes.

FOREIGY

DISSEM

-.....

---

