104-10169-10285| “if2022 A R PRI
RELEASE UNDER THE PRE: IT F. YY ASSA‘ ATION RI
‘SIDENT JOHN F. KENNED’
; SSASSINATION RECORI

ACT OF 1992 -oeuiicae:
eameiel * ae

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT cta QUARTERS BY

NOUSF SELECT COMMLTTER ON ASSASSEXATIONS STAFF MEM

oi a.
FILE TITLE/NUMNBER/VOLUME: ___ FRAWV Kb SUssa HEL IG: In Al /
Vol. + !
90-190 2@
INCLUSIVE DATES: ‘ i:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
. Set et tin eer LTE

+ ROO: . Ae

. DELETIONS, IF. ANY: THD AES. 2 a iy peters Le i :

i paasaraesaen gee asso Eee eT

: 7 1
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAED SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL :
ee
Comey ere ny

ee SX 3 3 t

ars a6
RECFIVED RETURNED
of

nO DOCUMENTS MAY DE COPIED OR RRNOVED FROM THIS FILE



; tr NY o2e/r¥ « PRO Mission ro UN Cc ect ) “3 ;

[lin Smsan | zersrrove Cts. Vo? 7 |

gel déenéy Documenrs:
ae alll ms
OI MY. aftafrS a0 CHANG, Mernsen (No Fie No.) !

TR) Has Memo i073 ae Svasacr; Fui/ Sense "100. ¥or76 2-183

wom oe f</73 Cr . ” “ “6792.

» a Bfarf72.4 4 © a © 100.339235-HO
FAINY apot ufiof7a~ © QVENES 100-239235 100- 40/762
ar NY" ofufzain NYFUES 100-112479 100-1073 83

pal NY-« 4/20/22 ee Rrewarn C. Frank ve fre Ma)
Rear NY « 3/17/72 © THE Muna Cine (4 2 9)

Coaceur lnreeshinet Aslan tes shre/na- You ID No. Z| fae te
wt RE OSnCnwA PbOME's FRaNRSHIP ASSOLIN TION \~
oo cities Pil *COSCAEA).

Sefpa mw os pret OS 92

Ya[ta We. Svarrer Soee(ene vo) 10042479)

22/7 ea Riewarn Ciere Freane ; Ficd Mos, 100-1073t3
.¢ 008-YO/76%.

eekam A392, ufanfn va Thats ov Amtercas Cirizens Tefen PRE.
ifife, RE USCPEA; FF 06 N50I9
eam Mons Kone $992, ofafy; Weaniy Keng oF *

Commenusr Cima (No.3:
Meme. Urfn RO Seaseer: we bir wo, ?
¢ fa telrntalld a eel ad

* RieWAeD CFRRUK; wo
ke Suasécr; FE 00-2479, BUEUE 106-939 a55
far fre 0° Rrewasn ls; FF, 100-/07F 83,» Vole
G/arfro RE Suaréer; me Fut wet,”
fi Yiofro | See 10092079 Bubp”
yoy wft/ep na” MER Oe Oo 2)
WY [2% fo9 Ae KrewaeoC; FE 107383, Queue 100.¥0/7o2
Ae x/20fe9 « Suarer, $279 6 999255

anon afar

” iff ie
AXD Rianen€. (we Cit wwnaen

)



a us SECRET rh

ee —} om Filled fay

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
Date OF 00c.

"SOURCE INFORMATION

WARREN, ° SUSAN

201-191098 : : | 016-126-041701
SEX F gp: 2 ovr | COAL 7926002
; Paes : 20 AUG 73
oo Bocferra © PS.
ee . et oe i

Res usatent P “ :
US&e IN CONTACT wor,
OTTAWA? CIALS OF PAC Ene

ite The Bubject, Project Or
to Fite No. In Which This
Torn Ie To Be Filed.



“a on ERE yO
EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT _IOENTIFICATION
eOc, svwnot 8 KO. ATE oF 00C.

WARREN, SUSAN eeeeeraen Seetne :
201-191098 © 016-120-041/01
SEX F 008.7 J Th 06ORe L933
cit? E : wae

i

occ ? :
RES USAr-NEW-YORKe 2 of 4
IN CONTAGE.W/OFFICIALS OF PRC ENB OTTAWA. .

a 3
Indicate ‘The Subject, Project Or
@01 File No. In Which This
Yorn Is To Be Filed.-



SECRET
(then Fitted tny

‘evaLuaTiON

0 apeTTeabTey

WARREN» ‘SUSAN Me

iH J 201-191098 100-300-091
oy ¢ H : SEX F 008 ? H fe OBD -60693
fan fan * * 20 JUL 73
v4 : cit? of rie ret

acc? Gi '
AKA SUSAN WARREN FRANK CHAIRMAN USA~CHIN
PEOPLES FRIENDSHIP ASSOG /USCPFA/ AND
SUSPECTRO CCOM “AGENT o,



Chief, PY

Chief, WOMUSE/80; Chief, EUR
Chief of Station, Ottava
KOBIRD/CO SMABOVE = Susan Warren

References 0C0A-16222, 10 Angust 1971

SUABOVE advise that on 12 July 171 Lo Yi-ching
inn Nava Agency). mentioned to a reliable source that
Jen-liu (People's Republic of China imbassy, Ottawa)

a hea intelligence officer, requested the address of
arren.

Bastritiutions - a
Orig & 1 © C/7E i
| B © C/WOKUSE/80

"000416612



Sis usietUrseia iD RISIaIBNGIGL 7
DISPATCH

CSSTHATION

BECRE®

MARS F08 BONN
t

Chief, FX wo wees anata

Jonvy guanine ooo
ean eet aan

_.....Chief, WOMUSE/50; Chief, EUR _

ry

ati — Chief of Btation, -
KOBIRD/CO SMAROVE - Suson Warren

CHOW ATGUIRED - Bur aRENLES

Reference: OCOA-16222, 10 August 1971

: 1. GMABOVE advise that on 12 July 1971 Lo Ti-ching
. (New China Nawa Agency): mentioned toa relfehte eeures thas
_X a 0, Jen-liu (People's Republic: of: China. Enb: Ottawa)

a@.suspected intelligence officer, requested tho 3: Of
Susan Warren.

"2. The foregoing information was ealeo passed BERG,

Distribution:
Orig él

* DUPLICATE cory ©
POR GieSS FILLIG IM

ae 1900gY i.



§

ing preservation
FROM:

SECRET ¢ Hates wen inet
ao (WHEN FILLED IN: cel veh.
@ : ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET © cad
: stay eames INSTRUCTIONS aaits
——-—-_______?F WING TO; ACTION BRANCH ie
© TF in Sect, 2. on back. Dotach back flap ~
and forward to RID. “If file no. and title shown are not proper,
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it rezords, insert proper file no. below and forward
e significantvaction taken or comments tequir- document to RID/AN.
e

:
4
i RID/ : |
{ F arte "TO: ALL ADDRESSEES } 3
\ HOTTIAK ELAINE ~” GN-328 Fix WSECTION 1 ON GACH. ADDROFHATE :
ITA + * GASY COMMENTS:
. ‘TUBE GI7

yor EXT, 8958

Info Sa Elbe, er/Sd

orricans
INTPIALS

OCOA L65LS

OiGe“azia

SECRET



Actions FYI

1. The attached 1s a blind memorandum and photo from
SMABOVE which concerns a meeting in Ottawa. petueet People's
Republic of China Smbassy officials and Richard C ‘

rank. :

SMABOVE also provided LNERCO with attachment.

JAN 034 we
MICROFILMED

heen el 5

41% December 1971
RTM

Le i


ATTACHMENT TO: OCOA-16515

MICROFILMED.

December 8, 1971 ~

oT is gui ested PRE embosty, Chew,
S91 S22 Let bec Ti ener nes ;
A reliabls source advised that Richard
rived-at the Ottawa Airport on September

K
ve 1971 via Eastern Airlines flight 177.from the United
- States.

On his arrival at 9:35 a.m..he deposited his
three ete of luggage in a locker at the Airport, then
travelled to the People's Republic of China Embassy, 100
Bronson Ave.,-Ottawa. by taxi; he remained at the Embassy
for five hours then returned to the Ottawa Airport.

- *" FRANK arranged to be placed on stand-by for
Air Canada flight no. 35 to Toronto and at 4:40 p.m. he a
departed on this flight. !

While waiting at the Airport FRANK was over=
Reard talking on a pay telephones. He mentioned to the
son he called that he was phoning long distance and
4 he could be reached at 714-454-7126.

A photograph of.FRANK taken on September 17,
tached. fan a *





ry wessace poe

tora comes: (6 —

rine anDIEN TNITSTSLEN BF ‘
i : Lae a
wen RAE OWMAN dh SECRET - inp

me CII/OCDU : ] : ace ereny

am X7900
wte 18 NOV_1972

(atte seeneranar onscumarion [EJ woe C]nomom Caran vo yer pom

“INFO: : DO BASE NEW YORK , De BASE les Pucecks, 00+
KOBIRD/CO DONOPS wopnecis. a i
“REFS: A, DO BASE WASHINGTON 13616" (IN “468195)*
“ DO BASE NEW YOKK 20364 (IN 471050)#*
LY INFO AVAILABLE HQS ON’
) IN ADDITION TO REFS, IS LNERGO REPORT CONCERN=
NG A NEETING OF ABOVE ASSN. IN NEW YORK AUG 71. SUSAN WARREN
(201-191098) IS. WELL KNOWN FOR EXTENSIVE CONTACTS WITH! CHICOMS.
“ BIMILAR FRIENDSHIP ASSNS SAN FRANCISCO AND LOS
ANGELES DOMINATED BY APOLOGISTS FOR CHICOM CAUSE AND SOME
HNOWN MILITANT REVOLUTIONARIES,
IN VIEW SENSITIVITY SURROUNDING THESE ASSNS, REQUEST
BASE NOT FOLLOW THROUGH ON ATTEMPTS GET BASE “ASSETS INVOLVED.
FURTHER, OPS USE OF STAFF MENBERS, EMPLOYEES OR OFFICIALS OF
PRIVATE VOLUNTARY ORGNS REQUIRE PRIOR CIITEF WOMACE APPROVAL.-

> SUCH APPROVAL, WOULD ONLY BE CONSIDERED

Sucitu Bash 2O
7CONTINUED/ :

COORDINATING CrPECZRB

([sacear | [sear

- REPRODUCTION GY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 18 PROHIGITEO,



Mcssace FORM ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN OY
. TOTAL COMES: |
ara 2
mn ° SECRET

ABLE SECRETARIAT DIBSEMINATION Ch invex no wwoex

Ci nerunn vo __exanen >) ene mo
| nies CO re mn cs rie no. !

‘ILE: -200-6-385/17.

oF MESSAGE °

’*Reported this Assn. welcomed eal PRC delegates, giving
;Chaizman's ndme as Susan Warren.

ly Cea
— 7

COORDINATING OFFICERS

socret



14.0000



14.0000

ary.) Pak Svan Werrcn”
Unk. 103-1 5- USede



14-0000



14-0000

Hersterin, Hotel

(a) Greece” Grend Hotel

era Cyril (x) -
ZIP UeSobe

. Golion Gate Hotel

-



14.0000

O AMERICAN LEFTISTS FLOCKINS TO PEKING: Comunist China has instituted its own Open Door
policy for Anerican leftists, soze of then with long-standing ties to Corsunist parties.
A recepticn in Peking carly this ronth provided intelligence agencies with a partial ~
glingse of ho is welzone, and the relative pecking oréer. Turning out to be greeted by
Prenier Chou En-Lei and his tvo top assistants, Kuo Mo-jo and Keng Piao, were ebcut 70
Americans, sone permanent Peking residents and government exployees. Radio Peking listed
some by name, deliberately concealing the identity of others. Greeting Chou were “All
olutionary Union" (°U is a fanaticaily pro-Mao arncd revo-
Palo Alto and Richnopd, Calif.), Pablo "Yoruba" Guzman,
head of the Young Lords Party, Black Panther's Huey Nexton, Elaine Brown and Robert Bay,
and "J6 American young people led by Mrs. Carmelita Hinton" (df Putney, Vt.). Also Mr.
& Mrs. Max Granich (brother of the late Communist writer Mike Gold), William Epton (ex- .
menber of Progressive Labor Party), Jack Belden (author of pro-Red China book), Mrs. Susan
Warren (an old CP and PLP functionary), Dick Frank (Mrs. Warren's husband), Mr. & Mrs- .
Hoseah Willianas (of Southern Christian Leedership Conference), Mr. & Hrs- John S. Service
(ex-State Departzent e=ployee, recently wpehabilstétes” by liberal press in U.S.) Xr. &
Mes. Willian H. Hinton, Mr. § Mrs. Jack Sckzlman, Mr. § Mrs. Henry Wilcox, Dr. 4 Nrs.
Sa=uel Rosen, Mr. § Mrs. Victor ¥. Sidel, and Geoffrey Collins. . .

Anong Peking residents present. were: Frank and Ruth Coe, Sol and Pat Adler (Frank Coe and
Sol Adler were implicated in Soviet espionage in Washington in the "40s), Exwin Engst,

Joan Hintog (his wife, and a developer of U.S. and probably Red Chinese atomic bozos),
Bertha Sneck ‘(ex-Mrs. Willian Hinton), Eleanor Chaidin, Julian Schuman (once indicted for —
treason in Korean War), Nornan Schulman, Sidney Shapiro, Ione Kramer, Betty Chang, Alice -
E. Cheng, Lucille Stewart, Carmelit: Hinton (the younger) and Fred Engst (aame order un- .
doubtedly is clue to rating). . Lone: “ a aah : .

members of the delegation of Rev
lutionary group centered around

