‘104-40174-10036 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

Re eet eee the \

4 Yobruary 1960 i i

: MEMORANDUM FUR THS RECORD oo

i
SUBJECT: Meeting witr(Ramry Pe Lopes dt Carleton Hotal. PP/PA ‘
repregsatctites vere Horace Dayie and Eveline Vidal, o> ;
WH representatives were (Robert Reynolds) (Retcber) and (Philip
Toonsy (Thompson), The mosting took place 15 vamary
1200 héurs to 150 hours. |

H ’ He reod the PP staff report on opposition groups (sanitised) and the
report (ssnitized) on the|_ : Doperations ‘|

o z
(afer dean briefed ty Xe. Geynsttayon the current altugtion in Cubas :
He wan given a check for $1300 and instructions to cal) Benjenin’Avans -
| at tho Kabassy ord use tho nend Fred Moree,

wey i
wr. Gopen btated that be foressy no problens in getting arvund in 08,06

1 Cuba. He mantionod that one of hia friends in the
i was now in tha and that be and

: . dated the seme girl who wes now in New York. He intended to phons
girl on his stop-over in New Tork to renew acquaintances ‘

I
i
|
i
Cod vas told about security preomtions and that Hr. Evene would i
brief hin furths: Aiseontacts to be mada, Hr, Davis asked when he would |
Gone i

|

i}

j

i

{

5 be back hore and sald about the nd of February. Davis said that
: we would tape hie remarks at that timesP(Lopedwos asked to keap eccurate
: eccount of his arrivals and departures for secounting parpossss

03

(2. rocsr)
Wis fer

Fpl
