# 104-10057-10153

## Page 1

1704-10057-10153

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

• APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

102230188

LlW01.l1900081K

+K12S

1c002158

05/0s3

1E-7

ACTION...

NEROYAL:

COA PiENT

СОМСУПРЕНСЕ

DISTAICH

FII.E

CALCARE REFLE

RECOMSMENDATION

SIGNATURE

For your retirters or!

„safe mugs. Here entere?

en attachines.

1024 no. 237

Use previous editions

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME: ADDRESS ANO PHONE PIO.

TUNFIDENTIAL.

aUsCIO: 1 076-202-953

(40)

---

## Page 2

13-00000

1? amary !?:?

CONTAGE RETORE

SUBJECI:

•PLACE

THE

¡ former staffer

8292 Day

"sinte trive

Tappa, Fla: ida

33615

813-851-8610

Debrinfing on Training and Denolittons Given to Anti-

Castro Cuban Exiles

Holiday. Inn (Tampa. Airport)

Tarpa, Florida

14. January. 1977

0900 - 11i5 hours

1.

Purpose:

To dobriof

on questions posed by tin

Department of Justice regarding anti-Castro Cuban exiles.

These

questions,

in general, covered training and

explosives/detonatiog

derines givon to these exiles.

came to my motel room (503) on Friday

morning at 0900 and departed at 1545.

this time, both of us

sat in oasy charis in front of a picture ridoi on the 5th foor - ir.

did 958 of the talking.

Neither of us got up during this veriod,

a strech of almost 8 hours.

was most intertaining,

marginally informativo as to specific details on the questions pronel

to him. Ho spins a good story

and remembers people and places goi

lty bona fidos for tho

was a call fron lis. Sheil.

A 1a day before. I arrived in Tampa.

•goosy, because of a DEA connection (bolow), and checked ma out thru

a phone call to the motel by his wife.

Incidentally, I used trus

3. Rosults:. A covered the following tonice with me:

Training: On Panama and the facilitias user, il the best

could remember,

Ft. Shernan was open in about August or

September 1960 to train Cubans for about a 2 to 3 month period.

There were about 40 to 50 men, mostly ARTIMe followers.

when it was

docidod a birger group would bo noeder, which later becara Briparlo

2505, those people wero sont to Rotalhulou (Gustomala) ardxask in

abont Novomber 1960.

Actually, the group was split, with some going

to Guatemala and others. to. the New Orleans. area.

As to othor tralning

3, lhas no linowledro. (NOTE:

surrested that Mr.

—A, p, retired staffor currently in the New Orleans area,

might be a good source.

Iwas C/Ops for the invasion Task Force,

as wosl as Deputy for PM and C/Ops for JI/VE at one time.)

i, A, i8, C, 1, Aminei CiA employees.

001016

---

## Page 3

13-00000

A to explosives, tie delor

control dovison, detonation mberials, etc. riven to those exilor,

"Lool: over the sapply namal for that bino." Arparonil:,

the exiles word riven everything that sas available and in lary

quantities.

A laid he just could not bosin to rive me a list

of what had beon passed.

c. Infil loamo: Aftor the Bay of Piro infosion,

workerl with infiltration toam.

The drency workeil with those tra

from couchly 1953 to 1956.

were in two catapories.

wore unilateral toams.traintre ant sponsore by the diency.

othor calagory was "political" toans - that is politient groups in

southern Florida: wio were sponsoring infiltrations into Cuba.

Tho Agency holpod this later a catamory by riving them supplins.

In the case of both, they usually made a caches in Cuba.

unilateral team, as an example, vould make a cache on island, ant

another group would pick it up and use it (compartmentation).

In some cases, teans (both unilateral and political) would not

actually make the cache and keep the material. in Florida, to be

used later at their own convenience.

that some of Castro's troops obtained some of then cachos, due to

foul-ups and snitches.

These caches containos pistols, rifles and

hoavier, monoy and demolitions. Somo of the teams cheated by going

to the Bahamas and buryinh their stuff on small islands and reporting

back to Florida that they had cached in Cuba.

stated soveral

timos that thera was no effoctive control over the "rolitical"

groups and thereforo no control ofer the material riven them.

this,

ne may surnize that Agency aquipment (domolition included) was

in the hands of anti-Castro Cubans in south Florida, as

Castro's Rebel Army on-island.

8. Brigade Trainior:

Furthor to demolition training to

Anti-Castro Cubans,

A reminded me that shortly after the Brimade

was ransomod from Cuba, Brigadlo lendors were taken to Palm Beach

and talkod with President Konnedy.

At that time, the US Gort offered

Brigade nenbors the chance to join the U.s. arif.

This also included

infil team members, who were completely seporate from the Brigade, and

members of the Brigade airforce.

The Army end of this training was.

given at Ft. Benning,

Georgia and beran in carly 1953.

members entered the U.S. Army at roubly equivalent ranks - officers

were made 2nd Lts.

They received Ranger trainine, plus. jump trainin.

said, if any exiles wore trainin, in denolations and related

topics, thato bost training was probably rivon at ft. Benning.

of those men wero in the U.s. Army for oither 6 months or one yoar.

Cubana orbing:

was specifically askerl about the

$ Octobor 1976 bombing the of the Cubana airliner in the Caribbean.

A I said the street-word among, tho cuban community in south Florida

Is that the bomb should have gone off in the plane on the ground.

bombers did not mean to kill all of those people.

community does not particularly like him, but admires him bocause he

had been going at Castro tooth and nail for yoars. They do not like

the idea of terrorism and fault BUSCH and MORALES for this.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

3

hard road the coon!

arliclos

in thr

papers about the introduction of swine Fever Into Cube be the dear

in 1972.

do dil ask it so hail

cheched vita DIAPT?

said when he had beon with the Army as 7

special foreos typi,

it was unbelievemblo what the Army had done

in tie ta

vining in ine scales.

lies mentionas

maurik a training

exorciso

substance

was inta-

Juced into the water of a hotel where Pres. Bisonhoser was

stayin

In any event, tyret

into Cuba, ho wouldn't doubt that the amy Did had cone hamd in it,

espocially if the ce-called sourcos clairad it cans out of Ft. Cialick.

# Assassinations by the Arancy:

A isain ho had absolital!

no knowledgo of assassinations, attempts or plans, by anyone in tho

Agency during his tour.

Not only were they prohibited by the Ager.

thoy wore counter-productive. It was explained to him during hi:

Azency tour that thore vas a good chance of an assassination had!i-

firing; that wo (U.S.) are more vulnurable to

assassinations than

the Cubans

or Sovicts. Therefore, as far an he was concorned, ther

vore strictly vorboton..

editorializin,

that the upper-ocholonsdid not believe in this restriction.

of that, they approachod mafiora to help them.

rathor anti-Kennedy, especially Bobby, with whom he

match during a learing on the Bay of Pigs invasion.)

h.

Assassination of Peruyero:

Jose Feruyero, a Bay

of Pigs voteran and leader of the Brigade 2505, was runned down Jast

wock as he loft his home in Minni.

the vom on tho sure:?.

among the Cuban, community is that this was done by tho bal as a canin

to the anti-cubans in Miami. Foruyer had no enemies - ho was not

into drugs, crimo, politics,

Cubans very

-karning

the community that they could strike anywhere and anyone.

Thus, watch out and lay off Cuba and Cuban citizens.

If anyone else

had been killed, perhaps the killing could have been blamed on

the mafia, drug dealers, politicians, etc.

A copy of an oditorial

¿from the Tampa' Tribune of 14 Jan 77 is attached, below.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Tamp? Tribune

I't Jan 77

Emergency in Miami

Murder is murder but assas.

the resources of a local law en-

sination is something else again.

forcement agency.

It's an emergency.

That is why Miami police,

Seven Clibon exile

leaders

wiscly, have appealed lo U.S. At-

have been assassinated in Miami

torncy General Edward Lori lo

in the past three years, five of

allow FBl intervontion in the in-

them in the last few months. Lat-

restigation of the unsolved kil.

est lo fall was Juan Jose Per-

lings.

were, a Bay of Pigs veteran and

leader of Brigade 2506, gunned

Federal intervention is not, is

widely believerl, automatic in s-

down. as he left his front door

sassination cases. The murder of

last week.

a private person, oven the politi.

Mindless murder is a purely

cal assassination of a man on the

¡local police matter.

But

the

street, is not a Federal offense.

coolly calculatest multiple politi-

Before the FBI can enter the

cal assassinations, not to men-

case. Levi must declare that the

tion assassination attempts, in

Miami

murders constitule

the city that Cuban refugees

"emergency."

adopted, are admittedly beyond

They do, it is and he should.

(NOTE:

If not already done, it might be a good idea to look into

the background of Peruyoro, as far as the Agoncy is concorned, if

come to us for information into this case.

Naturally, thoytwill

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 6

13-00000

this card entored

Assass lation Of leblader: milo on assassinationa,

s convorsation.

no. personal knouleke

ot wat laptonod.

Again, hoover, ho pavo no the "street vord."

Ir: Minni

the Cuban comunity is saying that the sane poople to did

formed tir tellshire

iftndlia".

arraned for the Lottalior killing - hired and paid tho killors.

reason, the

Chicago family of the Mafia is furious

Traficanto, because he is/or will brine hoat on the Mafia.

reason for Traficanto doirs it???

Fidel Castro hired him and paid

him vell to do it.

The word is that Traficanto has been cooperali::

with tho Dol and Fidel since he departed Cuba.

Fidel wantod Rosculi

killod, because of lossoli's part in the assassination attenpt arainst

From the strade in fiand that that this is not his thoory, but wor

Chs Show on Cuba:

A isaid diS is planning a show

on the "Laracy of the Bar of Pies," which should on broatcast in

about. May 1977. CBS has already shot reanx interviers in Miami,

including, ono with Pemirero (above) before he was killed, plus

covorinz the aftermath of his assassination.

Currently, the CBS

crew.is in Cuba - thoy hopo to film the beachos at the Pay of Pirs -

which had boon suggested to them by

A has also been

interviowed and has given his opinions for the TV showing.

in Cuba, the CPS crew hopes to also intervior Fidel - also at the

surgostion of

The fellow bohind the show is named CRILE and

he has talkod to .

@ / extensivoly.

Accorling to

A lo tho shor

would have boen vory anti-Arency in its

comments, but ho

has turnod this around almost 180 degrees!!!

As planned, the

show will be two hours and shown in May 1977.

Brigado 2505: On the Brigado,

A 'said he had bean

an apolitical organization.

Individuls of any political shade had

been mombers and politica had not really entored Brirade Association

business.

Last year, howevor, they joined with Orlanlo BOSCH, 2":00F

others, to help form colu.

Now, the Brigade is ombarrassed and wished

they had never joined CORU. They with-drew shortly after the Cubana

bombing in October 76. However, the damage has been done to the

Brigade Association, which

/considors a shame.

On the CBS film

(abovo),

said he was filmed attending an anniversary mesting.

This same meetiny was where CBS filmed Peruyero.

1.

Lynch & DEA: when

rotired from the Agency, ho

moved to Koy Wast. •Ho camo to the attention of DEA, especially to

Lou Conino,

an ex-Agency officer now with DEA.

an SOB and worso.

He went into a long explaination of his activitios

with DEA in Key West. • In summary, he was a P/A and ran a string, of

informants.

Because

of intornal DEA politics, ho was blown and left

dang ling

on a string in Key West.

He had to leave town within 24

hours and loft his peoplo (informants) there without calling or

warning then.

is a result, he lost friends, prestigo with his

Informants (many of them Cuban exiles) and his business in Key West.

In coneral torns, he was troated very shabbily by DEA and regrots

ever having nixod with them. He is still in contact with one of

001016

CONT'D

---

## Page 7

13-00000

13

will tr

relumin; to

the Agency chorl ly.

in tamiliar with the

operation in kay ilyit.

Another ex-money enoloyne wat also in-

volvol in this operation, ono

The undorsirned knes

contract enologne at about iran.

Don he mickly rose to os-lit and was dirostin the key

then it folded, according to

¡was busted to G3-13 an?

sent lack to dashington,

is now working in DoN's Inspection

Diviston (similar to our Id Staff).

A /wan also arare of anor

ox-deoney employco, (fir)

D

6uho was to no lo flexico under

DEA "sleep cover"'.

Accordina. lo

iwan lo be involie!

in ascassination ovirations arainst Moxican dealero and pushers.

Inst.gadl,

ended up in El laso for about a voar and is

no:

in Miami.

The undersigned personally know

soul dirt not

know of his spocific assignent within DEA.

milo the above

is a little ranbling, this is the way the debriefim of

A I went

all afternooni)

at's Manuscript: I had road

A '= mmuscript,

"Tho Bay of Pirs" boforo dopartin: Washinton.

Lynch explaine:

he hail dict led this paper am had a couple of scerotarios type il

out. It is only in very rough form and he wantel to get his thoughts

down on papor.

15 ho indicatos in tho paper, ho wanted to get the

facts straight.

He feels that since he was

there and part of the

invasion, he has a unique vier point of the Bay of Pigs and wants

to see that history rofleets his potition.

As indicated earlier,

is rather bitter arainst the Nor Frontier, the Kennedy's

This is roflected in his manuscript.

iclained that

much of his papor had boen "stolen" in that he explained tho invasion,

for instance, to the CBS crew am they word using sonn of his material.

in the soon to bun be shown program describerl above.

In addition,

A imentioned that he harl spoken to tho Meney historian - can'

*rocall his namo: - on iho is also writing a book (classified) on the

invasion..

15 to publication, it rooms to bo in the dirtant futurs.

He does not plan to no to a publisher, where he would xer rocri:?

royalty payments of around 5'%.

Rather, he plans to publish on his

_own, probably in Miami, and realize close to 1008 profit.

cost him tha in the area of $5,000, but ho could realize a profit of

about $30,000 depending on sales.

lalso spoko about porsonalitios within the

mebtioned Ted Shackley, "Dum'Dum"Vimner, many people in

who had a part in the invasion or JMVAVE.

Agoncy employees

association that Dave Thillips formed.

As such, he has appeared several times on Tampa radio and TV shows.

me, he appears to bo an articulate defender of the Agency.

4. Conclusion: For me, this was a most interesting intorviow.

As far as results,

the intervion indicated to me that we can got

broad-brush overviews from retired Mency employees, and fow dotails.

To answer specific quostions from Congross and/or the Departmont of

Justico, we must continue to dig and come up with documents from

---

## Page 8

13-00000

Manoj filos. Unfortually these documents appear lo he nost

difficult lo locate and ratrimo, many of thor burled in robirod

file holdings.

5.

Recolmandations:

is should costinuo to seek information

fron retired deucy emplogoos, especially whon it appears that ther

which we are interoster.

This should be a solective process am

used only when de bolieve the intiroe could contribute to our

immodiate inpiry. The documented faces, hovevor, are still novle!

•to. anower questions posed to us officially by other Goverument.

entitios.

4.11.i.cd

Grady 1. Vickers,

LA/Ops

---

