|104-10186-10269 {2022 RELEASE DNDER! THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J
nee

: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tole materwal contding information affecting the Nathwonl Defence of tne United states wiintn the meaning of the Repionare Laws, Twue
USC Seca TH and TH. the Uensminnon of rereietien of which In any manner to ea unsuthertand pervoa te probiblied by law,

ny
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NQ. CSC I-316/00699-64

country Cuba
! suet Julian NOVAS Fernandes \ bate iste © 27 August 1964. :
: RETURN TO CIA
. 2
baled Background Use Only.
REFERENCES Do.Not Reproduce
i
bate of 1964 :
INFO. a
MACE & Washington, D. C. Sa
FIELD REPEAT

cate AcQ, August 1964
THs 1S UNEVALUATED INFORAANON SOUTCE ORADINGD ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE.

source. A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence :
Service until April 1964,
: '

Headquarters Comments i

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the porsonality reports without.
first checking with this Agency. :

Source was shown & photograph of Julian NOVAS Fernandez
and source identified him as a Cuban f{ntelligence Officer.
Source saw NOVAS at the Cuban Embassy"in Mexico City 1p
March 1964 and assumed he was a functionary there. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,

Headquarters Comments

1. Although source saw Julian NOVAS Fernandez at the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City in March 1964, the records of this
Agenvy revenl that source was probably in error in
assuming that NOVAS was assigned to that Embassy and

it is more likely that he was just passing through.

The following traces by this Agency is the basis for

this conclusion, - 1
= A Mee golr de ageleesa aseen woe
statéd that Julian NOVAS Férnandez arrived in Kingston,
t

Jamaica, on 18 March 1964, to take up his duties at the
Cuban Consulate in Kingston as Commercial Attache. Source

said that NOVAS has the appearance of an American and
speaks excellent English. Since his arrival he. has been

5s espetially occupied with girls. It should be noted that 8.
4 - 4
3 SECRET . 3°
2 NO FOREIGN DISSEM fedcis mec 2
1 some] 3
tga Tea Damme Tw Ta Trea TREX Toca [FBT

REP _CINCLANT CINCSO # I&NS

Pow: Fahd dimrbenon tndicaned by “#™)

fz sa fon nea filer tis aeanapali ix1645 6 772
ws_Sacion Line -wapr. lo} cr Ria ae AiR itr —-—|-CScI-316/00699-44 +
SAR) =: Ld HASH 0 PROJECT (aunud/1}
Se SACI ppete- as $ f—- : - a
wi mave_at 4 ale

{ wess 7 wy era mine ale


w

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-2-

hig wife did not accompany him and source speculated that Her
arrival may be delayed in view of NOVAS' present inclination for

feminine diversion,

In a report dated March 1964, this same source said that

Julian NOVAS Fernandez, the Cuban Commercial Attache at the

Cuban Consulate in Kingston, Jamaica, was born on 2 September 1938,
in Habana, Cuba. He carried diplomatic passport D/64/90 which

WaS issued in Habana on 20 February 1964.- His home address was
given as Carman No. 18, Vibora. He arrived in Kingston from
Mexico on 18 March 1964, on Mexicana Flight Number 305.

This same source, in a report dated 28 April 1964, stated that ae

..the wife of Julian:=NOVAS Fernandez, the recently arrived Cuban

Commercial Attache, arrived in Kingston on 22 April 1964,
via Mexico. Her name is Amarilis Marta VALDES Hijuelos and
she was born on 19 May 1937, in Jiquani, Oriente, Cuba. VALDES
has been indisposed since her ariival in Kingston; this is
probably due to her advanced pregnancy. Her home address if
Cuba is Avenida 31, Number 3622, Habana. She carried diplomatic
passport D,64/'239, issued in Habana on’9 April 1964.

This same source, in.a report dated 9 May 1964, noted that ‘
the salary and allowances of the new Cuban Commercial Attache,

Julian NOVAS Fernandez, suggests that he is the new Cuban

Intelligence Service chief in Jamaica, succeeding Gerardo

SANCHEZ Robert.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

yeoman

