[104-10185-10105) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY: Lacacdocusnlolll RECORDS ACT OF 1992 Ses ti

— eS .

rer checking

‘with this Agency.

“(tia) RELOVA feuconyn oye reds soj;" is an officer of-the ... -:
receian’ General. deInteligencia {General Directorate. of.
Intelligence - DGI). Cuba. -He resides at Calle 15 number..-
2219, Raparte Juan Manuel Marquez, ‘Palya de Santa-Fe, Mariano, ©
ped :

fevedled that one Osvaldo...
eal with the above Sudject,

RELOVA Posichet, probzbly ide:
left Mexico for Kabana on 8 July 1963. and was the nolder’.
Of Cuban passport number ‘D/63/415.

nay 3 ie : r :
aa ina report dated 16 october 1963, >!
Stated that Osvaldo RELOVA, the First Secretary of. the :
Cuban Embassy. in Canada, “arrived in Kingston on. 14 October 1963.
‘. He was in Kingston :

trip.’ RELOVA was ‘bornon-13 August’ 1930, in Habana.:.His
home address’ was given as 15% 2419 Santa Fe, Habana. ‘He

~earried Cuban: passport number D/63/415; issued in Habana &
on-17 June 1963... ” 4
Qe
SECRET ti
_ NO FOREIGN DISSEM . = 1
cay DIA | aneay {NAVY Taw Tosa TY Toc‘. FBI 2

aD CINCEANT CANT CINCSO #1835

H
i [SooROnaT ING,

os a

PSe/AVE, 2 Hl
lone WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RIDL

i
201-73713S

a Paani enreuooesnanerearnee



, -Eabdna.° REL
i 16. August 1963, destined: to. visit Jesus. YANES “Rodriguez,
ban ‘Comierical: attache in ‘Montreal .

States since 1963 and whose reporting. he. pa
}proven“re liable, gave the following eek 1
on Jsvaldo RELOBA ‘Penechet (presumat ;

i In early 1961, RELOBA’ wag an admiaistrator, é
of the Consolidated Hardware’ Storés ;an¢ annexes: “Invlate.-”
1961 he went to see source. to-get-help with an investijgat ton’
‘on a Mr. BARRAL, Administrator of ‘the Consolidated ‘(si¢)).
RELOBA was requesting sources ‘aid in thé- belief that sourcé
was still working for G-2; source’ did:not tell him otherwise.
RELOBA is a new Communist who wants to be more than NARX.and
is trying to instruct everyone around him. Source said that
RELOBA was born about 1934, is 164 pouscs, five fee: nine
inches in height, has a nedium thin baiid, -a long ‘face, and

: a long thin neck. He has dark eyes, black hair, is partially
atte bald, and has a small, thin mustache. is

SECRET
NO FOREIGN’ DISSEX

