‘od-10332-10012)

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992] ene
Ad Internal Use On! oe
ministrative - Internal Use Only : i:
Vrelonan / cb RAved
WwW OPS A Linda

t

Caper? O6C.
OIM 98-0036 Plt

3 April 1998 Ree Ld 4
Rb Asspuel

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Executive Director oe Pure
Scune Gye —
VIA: Director of Information Management/DA wolen
FROM: Lee $. Strickland CR
Chief, Information Review Group, OIM/DA E

SUBJECT: Release of .Oswa: ‘dSecur Ble? Pursuant To
Request of Assassination Records Review Board

1. Action Required: None; this brief is for information
only regarding a required release pursuant to the request of the
Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB or JFK Board). This z
release has been coordinated with the DO JFK Focal Point Officer,
the DA Information Review Officer, the Office of General Counsel,
and required external bodies; it is scheduled for transfer to the
ARRB for release to the National Archives on or about 17 April.

2. Background: The Oswald Security File, maintained by
the Office of Security, surfaced in February 1997 as our JFK
records review personnel were responding to the ARRB’s “Request
for Additional Information and Records No. CIA-16 (Oswald Pre-
AssasSination Files)”, dated 28 January 1997. Before this, the
file had been reviewed in 1978 by the House Special Committee on
Assassination (HSCA). Unfortunately, and probably by oversight,
the file was not included in the so-called JFK sequestered
colleétion' and thus had not been included to date in our
releases to the ARRB. In any event, however, approximately 92%
of the documents therein are duplicative of documents previously
released elsewhere in the JFK collection by CIA.

* At the conclusion of its investigation, the House Select Committee on
Assassination (HSCA) sequestered all of the files that the HSCA staff had
requested or been granted access. This “sequestered collection” includes 63
boxes of hardcopy records and notes and 72 reels of microfilm.

Administrative - Internal Use Only 7 ®


13-00000

Administrative - Internal Use Only

SUBJECT: Release of Oswald Security File Pursuant To
Request of Assassination Records Review Board

3. The Office of Security subject file on Lee Harvey Oswald
was established circa 1960. It appears this file was created as
a separate repository for the numerous press clippings and
reports from other government agencies on Oswald’s defection to
the USSR and his activities following his return to the United
States. Initially, references to Oswald had been placed in a so-
called “Defectors’ File”. Both the Oswald security file and the
Defectors File were maintained by the Sécurity Research Staff --
the CI arm of the Office of Security at that time.”

4. Information to be Released: The Office of Security in
its response to the ARRB request of 28 January 1997 advised it
had located six volumes of the Oswald Security file, numbered 1-4
and 6-7; a search failed to locate a volume 5. The six volumes
include over 400 documents and about 2,000 pages of which 1,000
pages are newspaper clippings. All of these documents are to be
released in full or with minor redactions; more specifically, the
fully coordinated documents ready for release include:? a

© Volume 1: Pre-assassination documents relative to Oswald’s
defection

* Volume 2: Miscellaneous memoranda on Oswald and copies of
cables between Mexico City and Headquarters

* Volume 3: Partial Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS)
file on Marina Oswald

, © Volume 4» Newspaper clippings
+ “Volume 6: Newspaper clippings and memoranda (many related to
the Garrison Investigation)

2 This may explain why this Oswald file was not included in the sequestered
collection with several other security files which had been maintained

normally (i.e., with most other security records) by the Security Records
Division.

} Representative samples of the documents to be released are attached for your
information; please note that the “blackened” areas are not deletions but are the

result ‘of red highlighting used in the original review by the then-Office of
Security.

ae ees

Administrative - Internal Use Only  *


13-00000

Administrative - internal Use Only

SUBJECT: Release of Oswald Security File Pursuant To
Request of Assassination Records Review Board

* Volume 7: A third agency (FBI) report and some HSCA related
documents.

5. . Potential Media Reaction: There is potential for media
criticism on two counts: the unexplained missing volume 5 and the
delay in releasing the security file.

* The Office Of Security has been unable to locate a Volume 5.
It is possible that volumes were combined without changii ers
(note the predominance of newspaper clippings in volume @@ pha), u
or that the filer simply skipped a number. The file was-primarily

a repository for externally generated documents, and there do not
appear to be significant time gaps.

¢ The delay in releasing the file is somewhat alleviated by the fact
that about 92% of the documents have been previously released in
the sequestered JFK Collection. Of the remaining 8% (35 documents)
all but six (6) documents will be released in full. The file
contains nothing of a controversial or politically sensitive nature.

6. As indicated by the signatures below, the Directorate of
Administration, the Directorate of Operations, and the Office of
General Counsel concur in this release. In addition, all
necessary external coordinations (i.e., FBI, INS, and the House
of Representatives) have been effected.

: GC

a Lee S. Strickland

ee

Administrative - Incernal Use Only »


13-00000

Administrative - Internal Use Only

SUBJECT: Release of Oswald Security File Pursuant To
Request of Assassination Records Review Board

CONCUR:

DO JFK Focal Point Officer Date
DA Information Review Officer Date
Office of General Counsel Date

iy eas

Administrative - Internal Use Only °


13-00000

Secret

OIM 98-0036 Addendum
7 April 1998

Subject: Release of Office of Security File on Oswald .--
Copies of documents not previously released by the
cIA :

There are 37 records in the Oswald Security File that
are not duplicative of material in the CIA's JFK
Assassination Collection:

* 18 of the items are the Information Request Flags,

MFRs and signature sheets found in the front of each
of the six folders (one example of each is attached).

* 5 are notes/routing slips by CIA officers

* 9 FBI documents

* 4 State documents

* 1 USIA document.

The 3rd agency documents have been coordinated with their

respective agency and it is likely that copies of these have
already been released by those agencies.

Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer

Classified Attachments

This memorandum is unclassified when
attachments removed.

Secret


13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

‘OFFICE:
‘SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Original Text of Ramona G. Dunn-C-

CONFIDENTIAL

CL BY: 2143726

(CL REASOR: Section 1.5 €
Decl ow XT

nv Fam: HUM 1-82

8 April 1998

J. Barry Harrelson

Brenda L. Olney @ DA

OIMIIRG

IMPORTANT: Oswald security file questions/37 documents

Original Text of Ramona G. Dunn-C-
i
‘
(CL BY: 2170463
CL REASONE Section 1.56
Ect on: X1
pay Fant: HUM 1-82
NOTE FOR: Lee S. Strickland
FROM: Ramona G. Dunn-C- @ DCI
OFFICE: EXDIR STAFF
DATE: 04/08/98 01:11:33 PM
SUBJECT: IMPORTANT: Oswald security file questions/37 documents
Lee.

(1) is the material highlighted by yellow marker redacted information?

CONFIDENTIAL


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

(2) tab 1-MFR notes there are certain types of information which weren't reviewed by HSCA staff. to what does this refer? Is this
information included in the package of material we're releasing to the ARRB?.

3) tab 2--mfr - mention of polygraph report on Agustin Trueba Calvo. why is this included?. mfr-notes that the report was removed from
Oswald's file and returned to Polygraph branch. /s Trueba connected to Oswald in some way? Is the actual polygraph report being
released to the ARRB?

(4) tab 2-office of security sensitive docs listing. are the listed documents being released to the ARRB? had they been released
previously?

5) tab 3-FBI report mentions Jack Martin is a CIA agent. Is this bogus information? did we check? has the alleged Martin[CIA
connection been mentioned in previous JFK releases?

6) tab 3-- FBI report-Schlumberger Well Service and theft of munitions from Nouma LA bunker. were Gordon Dwane Novel and Arcacha
Smith employed by the CIA? Was Schlumberger involved with us? did we pay them off with munitions. (I know these questions are
Jubricious but ! have to check)

thanks for your assistance.

ce:
Sent on 8 April 1998 at 01:11:33 PM

cc:
Sent on 8 April 1998 at 01:25:04 PM

CONFIDENTIAL


13-00000

OIM 98-0036/1

MEMORANDUM FOR:. Deputy Executive Director

FROM: Lee S. Strickland
Chief, Information Review Group, OIM
SUBJECT: Your Request for Copies of All Documents
in Oswald Security File not Previously
Recorded

1. There are 37 records in the Oswald Security File
that are not duplicative of material previously released in
the CIA's JFK Assassination Collection.

Tab 1: 418 of the items are the Information Request Flags,
MFR’s and signature sheets found in thé front of each
of the six folders (one example of each is attached).

Tab 2: Five notes/routing slips -by CIA officers

Tab 3: Nine FBI documents

Tab 4: Four State documents

Tab 5:.- One USIA document :

-2. Please note that the third agency documents have
been coordinated with their respective agency and it is

likely that copies of these have already been released by
those agencies.

Lee S. St¥ickland
Attachments

UNCLASSIFIED WHEN
SEPARATED FROM ATTACHMENTS



13-00000

iste «

23 April 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Robert Skwirot, ARRB Staff
FROM: J. Barry Harrelson, DA/OIM/HRP

SUBJECT: OSW Security Files

1. Forwarded herewith as identified by attached
inventory are 412 documents from the OSW Security Files. Of
the total number, 317 are RIFs and 95 are sanitized. Five
documents were recently forwarded to ARRB for review. They,
are:

Nhe trae
104-10300-10046 7- RS/Meu aicteieitel
104-10300-10045 “- wstlac. ”
104-10300-10053 :

104-10300-10157 ¥— AsACAc : ae
104-10300-10027 -  /7fek. Crraent. Aetenmm

2. The ARRB-approved set of classified documents,
highlighted copies, is also provided. Please return these
to CIA/DA/OIM/HRP upon completion of your review.
Attachments:

J. Barry Hi elson
(1) Inventory list

(2) Documents for passage to NARA :
(3) Classified Documents for return to CIA (u/s/d)


13-00000

SUBJECT: OSW Security Files

DA/OIM/HRP:JCassa (4/23/98)
Distribution:
Orig - Adse w/atts as noted
1 - ARRB Subject File w/inventory list only
1 - C/HRP w/o atts


16 March 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
FROM: CCRRIO Kn TAY aAN

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey Oswald
#351 164 - Volume II

Ll. On 16 March 1978, during the review of the
above captioned file by the undersigned for persual by
the House Select Committee on Assassinations, Interrogation
Research Division report of a polygraph on Agustin TRUEBA
Calvo (IRD #40382) was discovered.

2. This polygraph report, reflecting a FOLA #537-801,

was removed From Subject's file and returned to the
Polygraph Branch on the same date.

Grenrren Wy ride
