# 104-10219-10080

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10219-10080

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

WISTIN

:HA291S (UR. 461%;

10

Chief of Station, Ruso

NO

10 колл'N 14N-113

¡ CART QUALIIED DISA

Cier, WI

DE. FOSCOE WITTY

ACTION RiCHALO NUTRINCES

BEe peras 1, 2.

DLERTC.O. DER

£07€5.375

805051: 150

I. Attached for your luforuation and use is & copy of a ptatenent by

DI. COOTER PINNINGER concerting his and De. Waite's contacts with Willian

Banilton MARTIN st the Lebeder Institute in Moscow. (As you kou, MARTIN

1ã identical vitia the MAkill voo vith mIscHill, dalectod to the soriot Union

10 SepteaDer 1960.) ODSIVY and ODINCH are interested In having DE. WIIT..

interriesad for complete and detailod intormation cancerning sla contacta

with MAPPIs and the girl secretary nonad Alls at the Instituto. You may

Intora De. WiKIE that ODENVY has requested that he be interviered in this

matter in cousction vith a satter of ofticial Intereot to thera.

2.

Infosstion available to Headquartera Indicatos that DE. ROscOa WIlTE

18 lirtod on the touching stait ol UCAVIL, located In Triesto.

Another

Headquarters conjouent has an interest in UCANVIL and has askod that the

person too intervioun IX. HillY prutide 8 general assessuent report concerning

his. It l0 suggested that this be accomplished iitbout dr. WUTE's becoming

avare of a posalblo operational interest in him.

Fue assessment spoula be

foraried an a separate atreciment to your roport.

3. It 1s requested that Roto station decide boy this matter should be

handled. It has been pending for sons tos since 1t appeared that de. wilts

mitit rature to the statos. It nor appesra ho will remain abroad sor another

your. anurefore, it bould bo approciatid 1t his intervieu could be bandlod

as expedittously as possíblo eod your comnication narted for the attention

P211

10 E

TEN MISLE

Tril

Paper sea laid

Fat 43i.22

Casi i.4 (1")

pms.

Tram! Pau

F8X-25 INCI

=chr

LasT FRIEN

init N2. 12. 2) : 2

han on (a

NO (D)

DOC. MICHU.FAR.

JUH 221978

Arthur E. Vigerie

Distribut 103i

2 • C03, Bosse 4/ att

VIDA NiSt

0/RW- 24330

CROSS REFERENCE TO

OISPATOI SYMBOL ANO NURESER

1-Ca

2 = 65/530

CI/BIG

"6.1

UTLLST4EA

C/01/810

AC/CI

CATE

113 ing

DAT

0/133/ 4

MIOUS EDITION

201-282338

CT7. AUG 1965

MOS FRE NUMBER

897-97-852

ORIGINATING.

CSORDINATING

16821

OFFICERS PALE

Birch D. o Hea

pister

-LEASING

ration SV perin

DISPATCH

---

