/104-10180-10109] en RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

. ie e . _, CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ha
. ee a SECRET
7 TOM SMIAVE,
ACTON iw, : aafeTURy _
nO. ovr, soor, soo 6, 00, ca 2, ca/ecc, ca/enor, cafo b, cr/ors, er/re 2, ef grounes US Sc
ri, i/o, Fifint 6, ai/an, wafse 12, ww 8, vee Do Not Repo? Only
r Odio,
\ .
Hy
oT eRE T ppguaz 1D SEP P3SOZ EY IN TETET ¥
Su iNFO PACY LANT CARR CITE WAVE 1597
1 INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATAs AMFAST~6 FROM PEPE GATILLO ON 9 SEPT 64,

! RiD: INDEX, FILED: 19 /pp4hz
REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM
CUA
* SUBJECT: PLANS OF MANUEL RAY RIVERO, LEADER OF JURE, TO DEPART

FROM MIAMI FOR AN UNIDENTIFIED LOCATION

Dire 9 SEPT OY

PAIAg, UNITED STATES, MIAMI (9 SEPT 64) UFG 5827 ‘

SOURCE: . A MEMUER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE :

TECHNIQUES OF INFORMATION COLLECTION. THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED

+ SEFuL PFPORTS FOR AZOUT THREE YEARS, THIS INFORMATION WAS
TROM JOSE GARCIA VALDEZ, AKA "PEPE CATILLO",

BASED ON rg 5827

RILEASING 1WO, TT oate oistRisuteDs ko PROJECT
10 seeremace 1964 (avrasr/6)
8632 pee

CMAP LE Me BOUNCES

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. Copy No.


: ae CONTRLLED DISSE

rece

: CONFIDENTIAL CENTRAL INTEXLIOENCE AGENCY eu INE
oe Intelligence Information Cable 7
COUNTRY ceca TOCS o8-315/00679-64
DATE OF 9 scerenoce 1965 OSTR. 10 scpremece 196%
bic sumect

PLANS OF JURE LEACES VANUEL RAY RIVERO TO OLPART MIAMI
FOR AN UNDISCLOSED LOCATION

PACES

DATEAC@. « untreo stares, miame (9 scoremace 1964) Ld NN 78763

SOURCE 2 FIELD REPORT NO. ure 5827
ANO .

APRAISAL A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINLG IX THE TECHNIQUCS OF INFORMATION
: COLLECTION, THE GROUP SAS PROVICEO USEFUL REPORTS FOR ABOUT THREE
YEARS. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM JOSE GARCIA VALOEZ,
ana “pepe GaTicio™.

— 1. ON 9 SEPT ‘64 JOSE GARCIA VALDEZ, AKA "PEPE GATILLO",
SAID TeAT MANUEL RAY RIVERO, LEADER OF THE JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
TUGANA (e » CUSAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA), HAD ASKED GARCIA TO TAKE

RAY, PHOTOGRAPHER ANOREW ST, GEORGE, AND MIRTA EORRAS CN A TRIP

TO AN LNSPECIFICD DESTINATION,
2, TRE OROP 1S TO QEPART AT Ifys ON 19 SEPT IN A CATAMARAN,

ROTISTRATION CT-12¢8D, WHICH SELONGS TO JURE AND WHICH IS NOW AT THE.

INTERNATICNAL MARINE DOCKS SE1NG FUELED AND PREPARED FOR THE TRIP.
3. FIELD DISSEMs CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

Oe STATE, FI, CUSTOMS, IANS, ZORDER PATROL, AND USCG,
(END CF MESSAGE )
stecting the Mecoal Defrase of te United Sites within the meaning of tne Baplonage Laws le
‘rennin

‘Tein materat coataina 101
‘oe Teveiatica of which In any manner to on unauthorised perwoa ly problbiied by law.

| UBC Bee TS and

CONFIDENTIAL conouo osu PEE]

STATUE DLA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR XS SECEEF NSA NIC AID SIA OCI ONE OCR OR OOFE!
2 customs ass. a Parr. Cc o

