# 104-10250-10032

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10250-10032

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE

SERT NONSEN

2 NA:AE (Loss-Firs-Middle)

& RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Oniy

LEo Not Pep oduce

290541

• NATURE OF PERSONNE! ASTON

S. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

V TO V

EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

MONTH

DAY

YEAR

7

L51

7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

NO. CHARGEABLE

SEGULAR

8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Complesed by Office of

Personnel)

E FLINDS

CF TO V

V TO CF

CF TO CF

a CP-ANILATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

7235 04.0

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

LI! : FICTION

HASHINGOOT, D.C.

11 POSITION TITLE

12. POSITION NUMBER

13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

COS QEFICER

(13)

1392

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LB. esc.)

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16. GRADE AND STEP

D

17. SALARY OR RATE

18. REMARKS

0136.01

13 €

$ 11,217

DOP/:1/C5 € DEV COEP/9997 03

"NO NIC'S IS REPLACING LA

#HO IS BEING REASSIGNED.

i - rIMMI.CE

1

- SECURITY

Date:

27 JUL 1956

Security Approvrl has been granted for

the use conemprtea.by lis request

vil.

Chiel, Personnel

security Division

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

DATE SIGNED

18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

DATE SIGNED

ROBERT D. CASABAN C/UH/PERS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 21.

OFFICE CODING

T22. STATION

23. INTEGREE

24. MDOTRS.

25. DATE OF BIRTH

26. DATE OF GRADE

CODE

CODE

NUMERIC

ALPHABETIC

CODE

CODE

MO.

DA.

YR.

но.

DA.

YR.

28.

NIE EXPIRES

29. SPECIAL

30.

но.

DA.

YR.

REFERENCE

RETIREMENT DATA

31. SEPARATION

32. CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

3-FICA

CODE

DATA CODE

TYPE

мо.

DA.

YR.

EOD DATA

S- MONE

35.

VET.

PREFERENCE

36.

SERV.

COMP.

DATE

37. LONG. COMP. DATE

38.

CAREER CATEGORY

39.

FEGLI,/ HEALTH INSURANCE

CODE

O-MONE

мо.

DA.

YR.

MO.

DA.

YR.

1-5 P.

CAR/RESV

CODE

CODE

0- WAIVER

HEALTH INS. CODE

PROV /TEMP

I - YES

2-10 PT.

41.

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE

42. LEAVE CAT.

43.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

14.

CODE

CODE

O-HO PREVIOUS SERVICE

FORM EXECUTED

CODE

NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

FORM EXECUTED

1-NO BREAK IN SERVICE

-YES

2-BREAX IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YEARS)

1- YES

- MI

2-NO

3-BREAX IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YEARS)

15. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

10. O.P. APPROVAL

27.

мо.

DATE OF LEI

DA.

YR.

33. SECURITY

REQ. MO.

34. SEX

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

STATE TAX DATA

CODE

TAX STATE CODE

EXEMP.

DATE APPROVED

2-66

1152

USE FREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

GROUP

EXCLUDED FGOW.

AUTOMATIC

DOMHGRADING

AND DECLASSIICATION

---

## Page 2

14-00000

I RESIGN EFFECTIVE

*(Dast)

FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON:

AUG 3

3 20 PH ' bÔ

MY LAST WORKING DAY WILL BE-

DATE SIGNED

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

TOFTARO COMMUNICATIONS, INCLUDING SALARY CHECKS AND BONDS, TO THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS (Number, Strees, City, State. Zip Code)

Items 1 thru ?

and

Items 9 thru 18a)

INSTRUCTIONS

The initiating office should fill in each of the referenced items. Items 3 thru 7 and 9 thru

18 require information which pertains only to the action requested, and NOT to the current

status of the employee unless specific items remain unchanged.

lienis - "Category of Employment" should show one of the following entries:

Regular

Summer

Part Time

Detail Our

Temporary

Detail In

WAE

Consultant

Military

Temporary-Part Time .

Item 9 - "Organizational Designations" should show all levels of organization pertinent to ideptify-

ing the location of the position:

FIRST

Major Component (Director, Deputy Director. etc.)

Office, Major Staff, etc.

Foreign Field or U.S. Field (if pertinent)

Division or Staff (subordinate to first line)

Branch

Section

Unit

Irems 11 and 15 - "Position Title" and "Occupational Series" should be the standard abbreviated title and

trol Register or Form 261, Staffing Complement Change Authorization, explain under Item

18-Remarks.

Item 18b - Signature should be that of the official authorized to approve for the Career Service to which

the employee belongs. If more than one Career Service is involved, the gaining Career Serv-

ice should approve and the other Career Service should concur in Item 18, Remarks.

ROUTING- The original only of this form will be forwarded to the Office of Personnel through the appropriate

Career Service official (s). In the case of requests specified in HB 20-800-1, which require advance

approval of or notification to the Office of Security or the Office of the Comptroller, one copy only

will be sent see the Officers) concerned.

SECRET

---

