‘{to4-to1e6-10178 [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 i ‘&

CENTRAL INTELUGENCE AGENCY

‘This.matertal contains information afecting the Nationa! Defensa of the United Suates within the, meaning of the Ewécrze Lawn Te
18 UAC, Bree. 103 and TH the traneatesion or revelsnoa cf Which in Any manner to en undiithorieed person & pronibited ty law.

° i S-5-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

couUNTRY Cuba | REPORT NU, CS CI-316/02286-65

suwect Direccion General de Inteligencia: DATE OISTR. 1 June 1965
(DGI) Personnel Abroad
NO. PAGES 1

RET

. ul
a in Uns Oy
MAE & Washington, D. C. : ‘Do Net Reprod
DATE ACQ. ELD REPORT NO.

Tis 16 UNEVALUATED_MWORAANON SOURCE TOHADINGS ARE DENNITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT TENTATIVE,

SOURCE: a “former Cubaa 1S officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Serviced: until April 1964. -

1, The Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence ~ DGI) overseas field-station chief has no respon-
sibility for physical or other security of the Cuban Embassy or
Mission, nor does any member of his staff.

2. The DGI would not use a regular foreign-service officer in the
field because he has not been cleared and briefed and is not,
therefore, considered qualified for intelligence tasks. If a
foreign-service officer is briefed, it may be assumed that he ji
has been cleared and that he is thereafter considered a member
of the DGI (at least by the DGI). On returning to Havana per-
manéntly, such a foreign-service officer briefed for a field
assignment normally would be sent to DGI Headquarters rather
than-to the Ministry of Foreign Relations.

5 5
4 4
3 S-E-C-R-E-T SST °
2 NO FOREIGN DISSEM Facer :

‘STATE Ton Taam Travy Tae Tra, Toe Tock TFRI

| REPCINCLANT  CINCSO # _ I&NS. :

(Note: Field distribetion indicated by

WHC/H n vADRY [2 CY, TSYEABRITY f P_(ANMUG-1)

WHC/RE [i u { L/WASHABRY, Sanne

WHC/OS 15, RID/AN ij ¥ af

WHC/WAVE [1 rt :

7 COORDINATING Ai ne
vorauswHC 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CI 4, RID 1 Craton
ft : Bs:

Fema 5
