“"404-10172-10298 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION eo ACT OF = } Fciaaana

- 8] DISPATCH
; ! a Cotet, SR i ca
' Quiet, 7 Only
isan a 4-4 luce

Chhof of Statk
Pape ferns.
Cabbars3/5 ance

ant Ey
gorly ¥. G UB Contact

(eros }
i

oz
1. cm 25 suiy(A annFE/5 contucted Costco infora hin of her Latest
conversation with G UD. ..U5 ca.led[aFY5 at: her opartmen Thureday
e¥ening, 23 suly. fo had been tovited. an he ie ei eGnys Eussian
Langusge leesons, At tee tine he told(UY$ tat the dnerican Rnbesey
ecachow had becone meare of ter contact with nin. beg that be bad
hecrd this through an Aseriean who in turn beard it falV IC K/2, and @
second menber of the American Exb'asy, Ray White, Vice-Consul. Gud
-. Bhated that these tro officials yyre anting the Imuirios on the insti=
= tion of Gortille, He then askee[y) S Lf ede had heard anything of taiss
“he aid absolutely not and she didn't know how they coud have found out
Dut added, *I Lave never attanpted to conceal my contect with you. We
bavo been out at the movies and-at restaurants Ln Helsinki together ant
could have pesaibly been eer ty scuenne.® She alec stated to CLUB, "HY
Tooumate (a young girl) knows I am seeing you aince you phone me
here." U.LUB sake ‘5 {f she would get in trouble froa this contrat.
She stated no, tit’ wiat oha did was her own personal business end of no
* Guogern to the Aserican Bab-asy a2 she waa still a froe and private 97
eltizeans CG Lh genticned t.st he had heard cf the ingulries on Ai/ste
gontect with Soviets at a reception be attemled Tueorxy evening, 21 July.
‘This was tne’Sane rece; tion Coatlile and Kehte 8/2 attended and was
reported ia Gr. s  COLUs told her thatthe Americans whom he
mentioned were quite upset thet the American Fulbriyht etucents here ware
having so much social contact with Soviets. (He wns sleo probably re~
ferring also tonya Contact with hin).

2. Gils aleo continued to deride the Americans in the Fubssay hers. ite
stitod that they bad a bad reputation anong the Finns for drinking Ko
wuch, tie said they couldn't hold thelr liquor and referred srecifically
to a former US official nere by the nee of iarry KRIAANL. who according
to WLLD had been asked to leaye Finland because he yan drinzing too auch.
7 (Mere ie co truth to this statement.) He also ravi [AFYS why ehe thought
there were e0 many silitary people in the Fmbassy. ‘hée~said she didn't
know but assused thay were bere cathering iaforsation on Finnish military
' capabilities, as is the job of ery nisitary attache office abroad. He
laughed and-stated ene was neive ard thet they were oll collecting infor
mation on the Soviet Union, He aleo eid that t:o Mabasey here used Finland
es a base for collecting informtion on the Soviet Union due to its prox
inity. ‘te tolg(:r)5 tat the Fabassy emrloyed over 30 local Pinno shove
main job was €6 help in the ocllection effort. tle stated he personally
did rot like tris t-pe cf underhanded activity and in Nie ontiion the
BEVD and FUSARX were one and the saze ond both were evil. She was ecme~
what otunned br all ihese reserks and could not understand uhy he went
into tom and brought thea up at tiis particuler tine, te-leo pade one
more reference to Contille, He previonsly hed mentioned t5(47/'5 thet he
had socis’ contact with Costille tut did not feel that Costi ite was as
jn his aiscussions pertaining to the vovi«t Union vic~a-vie the US

Oa C75 wae with os She paid that tris ie naturel since he is an
resaris could be constroed as being lL: volley if
he waortt earful. (io 2 ressonded that be Enters od this dei Conmtille

and Le bed beoowe fairly good friends ani t:ousht Costi.le could ce a

little sere o1en. se apain usde refore:ce to tis on Thursday and ptated,

"I aso tiger dip:omat than Costi.ie, I have rothing to leose fren our

contact (Columb ani Costiile), and Lf anyone hee to lecve Finland it wih
be costiile and not ne.®

3. ? RalfeJokingly and

Tae


CONTINUATION OF
OUSPAICH

BLUM Ralfojseidagly sad wastinns aalfeoeortoualy parked toCH/5 that we
Avericans must ve octnmaly int wet in a re crt of a contict betwren an
amartasn @ident a a ovis’ cffictal ena t at ste ~ust oertainly is turning
in such a fo crt. Pes;vtled Cat aha ad vldeim before mo nas mover
been lo the Amorioan smaassy and deuttful Lf anyone would be iatersitad La
teeth alarte cunversitions aines se was a youn: ecuoolgrIRGYS wld
Cetiile that nos of Ao its rmarks Woox an accus Lory lone, und Weir az
reletionsitr fe othil extr-aaly cordial, GQisiu fuund At atrange wat 4375 bad nd
fet bean invited to any ameriaan rolassy functions of tat che didi’ l see to
knew Cov ttile latter aa :@ was a young, Ame Luan inobelor, She repeated again
that she hed no desire to co to such rece;ti-ns and that she had only est

Costille onge tefory socially.

he Ke have cheoired tts (09 \S/2 to o0e if Were was any truth to Ge
etatenent that ¥/2 wae making iniuiries angering ti euntact of Aserioan
Students wth coviete in ineisiokd or If C.'..b had enntioned anyUing alout
bla at the party on Tuasday evening w:ict V/2 alse at ended. ¥/2 stated
Gat he had definitely heard outhing in the iabassy-or from OLE conseming
this. There is « posaioility 2 Gays ap deen soon with OULUB by some
American official, but if tis wore trus we baileve that our office wald be
notified matter of rouwtireS4Agy/s te cot kno by etght by any other
cfficer in the tabassy besides Costille and kr, white, wos she has also -
met once socially.” Therefore Ue first conclusion we can draw from Gas
apparent Lies to [AHS is that he te attempting to allenate and poison (E/5's°2
aint against the Absrica:. atassy, ve feel tis 19 als0 the roason for his
resarks on the intelligence activities af the ontirs Anerican Eabassy, (12/502
has played the part of a someshat naive liberal, entieXcCarthy, exjenent cf .
oyea diplomey type person who by her very natare wuld abhor any eub-rosa,
beneath the tatle dealings. (Tois iv in fact jartly true, aa she has atated
that eho somstines feals iike a Dr. Jokyll ant tr. Kyde reorting ea CLUB,
She cow realizes clandestine activities are a necassary part of forealating
foreign policy, but a3 she stated, never realized aia would over get nioed
up in such things.) Ulu: has ufoubtedly reeognised this idealistic quality
and Lo attanpting to exploit it. Tris aipears to be the first step ina

Peoruiteent pitch.

9
Se ide have informed(AS/5 that there 1s 00 evidence that any Anerican offietal

had made inyiries re Soviot/Aserican student contact. and that this is zore
than Likely @ provocation atleast by GuLUa, She has boen instructed to
continue seoing CLUB, as wo are extresaly interested in receiving her
comments on him a9 A perconality and elso to fimt wut what Mis next sow
will be, cho stated that Lud alls Ler at least twlee a week and tay
either 60 to a novle or COLUE coms to ier apirtaent to givs her iussian
language instructions. iis conduct as been atove rajroach,, and ho bas
always besn a parfect gentlosan, He ha: never made ona romantio overture to.
her.’ (This we find quite wmsual, as COLUH bas quite a refutation as a

.” | Ladies man arcend dolsincd.) liowever, G.LUB undoubtedly Likes i.e agit
; sac.

- and enjcys her frankneas, her outs;oken nsture and ber intelligence.
ia -aleo enjoying the relationstt;, eince she is also a grevarinas persoiy
loves to dotito vital issues, ani as she ruts it, “Tis to ay fhrot commmist.*

6. Arcther Lateresting exchange vetwmen G8)3ana ALUS took place earlier on
daturday, 18 July. then she met Zi, be appeared extresaly dorrseset, mei
she asked him what the matter vas, he state? Liat be had had to co soagthing
trat he did not like and he falt bad meataily. He told her that te hated
liare and that he found himself Lo the pusiti.m of having to Lio at leat
once aday. (This was just after the orter_tad been -iven to return the
Feoen$ escapees back to the Usad. (ee canagetl) ofges was the Joviet
Anstrumental to their retura and taterviewed AP BG ALIKK office aftor
Weir return order had Leen ai 4 Nis converestion with than « s in private
‘dthout the benefit of (¥sani/AJe 16 or even 4 ateroprons.),,GE)5 did not ook
hin wast the aatter was, bat in her outsrokan ssansr, said, therefore, the
peans don't justify the and, unt pou ahold cull your Job.” TRivi q-icaly
Pee; omied that the meas dofinitaly gid jwtify ie end, He Later revealed
to (A875 that slace “4s wife was mone ne hat boon lowing a fairly wild ilfe
ard brat the pevcerting weesend he hat had a fairly dedacched time in the
Count ry as the quest of a tisaleh far dealer. ie then ano (4x75, "Tou must

. ot

thins me en/

02

A Reskbee hinted Brrr a Tr
STS eo ae

porerereners



: THESIS
CONTRA NON OF |
helene

= a) eos

Uilsk se an extreaely dacoral parece. ete replied that a persona morale
dejemted on whos hu was with a that arcunt ter GULLS seemed to be qAite
a eeral S &csweeet this by stacicg that atea he eas vith her

be alvare fsb “pod",

7. Fo wocld a preciate at wis Prete Daving ‘osd-uarters coments a3 9.08 08
yoasidie congerning tha(4]$/Ai.? contact and whether you acree thal GLB

. Agtions Ladicate @ possible reeruitasndt, ann we are aot tr? in why COL!
mede the siatesmt atout Costiile's havin to Finlami, it (Ai/s did
mot khuw ashy he broucht this up either, ower GAS tas stabed she ¢oes

pot believe that Qoob Le avare of her actial relationantp vita Coatille.
Coattlle hae raver been seen sats, and all contsate bare Dean held in

nn Ne

Grete apartamt or are
wo.

a ¥o are enclosing a FR:

Fran wrth
4]

rom Ve ARS
wy S30 TS we
~ omnes)

