# 104-10186-10095

## Page 1

104-10186-10095) N° |2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Mis material noo

COUNTR CUDa

SUBJECi Osvaldo RELOBA Penechet,

Allas "#ilberto"

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

: REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nol Reproduce

CSC1-316/00185-65

1 February 1965

1

CSC1-316/00704-68

1 Septeader 1968

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE &WaShington,

D. C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE, A former Ouban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service unt1l April 1964.

Headquarters Commenta

The following report is one of a serlas containing personality

Information provided

by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this. Agency.

it is requested that the addressees take no action on any ol

the individuals mentioned in

the personality reports withoul

first checking with this Agency.

1. Upon being requeried concerning additional information

on Inu ReLOVA, source reported that his name is actually

osvaldo RELQBA Penechet, allas "Milberto."

He is an officer

in the Departmento Ilegal (Illegal Department) of the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence -

DGI) •

RaLOBA carries a carnet of the Cuban Ministry of Interior.

In approximately November 1963, he traveled to Jamaica, Canada,

and Mexico. He carries a diplonatic passport.

2. RELOBA 1s & Cuban citizen ard was born in 1930. Re is

Iive feet eight inches tall, weighs 160 pounds, and has a

medium build.

He has a white complexion, chestnut brown hair,

1s partially bald, has a thin face,

moustache. He drives & 1956 Pontiac.

RELOBA is married.l

Headquarters Comment

1.

Official! travel information in the records of this Agency

reveal that one Osvaldo RELOVA Penichet, probably identical

a1th Osvaldo RELOBA Penechet, traveled from Cuba to Mexico 1n

June 1963, from Mexico to Cuba in July 1963, from Mexico to

Cube in September 1963, and from Cuba to Canada

in October 1963; he carried passport No. D63/415.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

REP

CINCLAST CLOSEN 'RESS

THiX

_ I oce

(Note: Piold distribation Indicared by -=.)

INEORMATIO NAREPORT REPORT

TH/SA/EOLL NE/5/R

I CI/LIA

TIE CINDUL

LX-2210 & LY 2266

NH/SA/310B

NE/MADA

WH/SA/R

2 CI/R&A

3 IE BRITISHI W

- 15-2

W MSHER AL

ĐH/SA/CI /5

RID/AY

WH/HAVE

опоконятса.

TOTAL.

WH/SA 8 (1), NE 1 (2), CI 1, RID 1

LIAIsON *

16

CI

201-737138

2

1

4/10V

---

