# 104-10312-10024

## Page 1

AAAAA

104-10312-10024

$ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

18 December 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: DCD/OSG/OSS

ATTENTION

Craig Halel

SUBJECT

: Gordon Michael Dwane Novel

REFERENCE : HH-27696, 10 Decelber 1975

1. I have reviewed the allegations in reference that the

British, either British military or British intelligence (other-

wise not further specified), have cutfitted a converted World

War II Liberty ship as a floating display case for British

military hardware.

I have further checked out the bizarre story

ir para saip by i-d three of reference concerning use of the

2. This office has absolutely no information to substantiate

the story told in reference and Africa Division also has no

corroborating information.

In short, I consider the story developed in paragraphs

two and three of

reference highly suspect since I do not believe

the British would be able to mount such an operation without it

coming to the attention of this office.

tass into

eorge

Holmes

C/EUR/BC

TITT

---

## Page 2

13-00000

16 M: ch 1976

RECORD

SUBJECT: Gordon Novel

1. Mi. Peter Houck resident officer for DCD in New Orleans,

telephoned to say that additional problems regarding Gordon Novel

had arisen and Mr. Houck requested that I call the Assistant U.S.

Attorney, Mr. Al Winters, telephone No. (AC 504) 589-2921. On

16 March I called Mr. Winters and he told me that Novel had posted

$40,000 bond and had been charged with possession of a destructive

device. However, as they investigated the case there seemed to be

more evidence of a conspiracy with other business associates of Gordon

Novel, particularly with regard to acquisition of fairly sizable parcels

of land in downtown New Orleans including land in the French Quarter.

Mr. Winters indicated that his office was beginning to collect evidence

of suspicious fires which had occurred on some of this property. Mr.

Winters estimated that the earliest trial date for Gordon Novel would be

late May or early June.

2. Mr. Winters asked that Mr. Houch not discuss the case with

Gordon Novel or any of his attorneys. Obviously, Mr. Winters is

concerned that such discussions could lead to "Jencks material" and

I assured him that it was the Agency position that we did not want Mr.

Houck talking to any of the defendants or their counsel unless a

representative of the U.S. Attorney's Office was present.

3. It would appear at this time that Gordon Novel may subpoena

Peter Houckas a witness at which time Mr. Houc? can deny the Agency's

approval of Novel's proposal "Project Morningstar.". A second possibility

is that CIA would have to provide a witness from the Office of Personnel

to show that Mr. Novel was never employed by CIA.

4. On March 16, I called Mr. Houck and explained to him Mr. Winters'

request that he not talk to any lawyers or defendants and Mr. Houck readily

agreed to comply with this request and said that he would immediately call

Mr. Winters if any attempts were made to interview him.

So Meany

John K. Grezey

A

sociate General Counsel

cc: Chief/DCD

---

## Page 3

CONFLEILO

10-0*1°

IA-376-114

1 August 1974

Chief,

D&

Atta:

starling

Chief, Los Angeles Fleld Office

Movie on CIA and Watergate

A18a532

#182533

1. Allon F. Sandler,

President of Sandler/lapes and Films,

Hollywood, has been approached by Cordon Howel of Dallas (not

further identified) who is seeking a company to do the filming for

a documentary-type novle on the topic of "the CIA as instigator of

the Watergate breakin."

Novell dlains to be representing, or to

at least have the support of, Jamed Coleon and Noah Dietrich. f

Novell claimed to have the necessary fancial backing for the 185x10

project and 13 not searching for a

89

(which is what led him to Sandler).

2. Novell'a intention is to produce

an expose-type documentary

which shows the CIA as the instigator of the vatergate caper.

The

only other names he dropped were those of James Garrison (New Orleans

District Attorney, and Davin synn (not further identified. ie

claimed to be getting substantive assistance and cooperation fron

the latter tro.

3. Sandler offered to pursue the offer if we desired. He

made no effort to encourage him, but thanked him for the information.

RAYMOND G. DURHAM

RDBeske /mo

File:

GS/Sandler Tapes and FlIms

B2 IMPDET CL BY 020650

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

13-00000

18-52-10

SECRET SLITES

JUN

75 STAFF

CITE DOD/WASHINGTON

11352

TO: DCD/NEW YORK INFO

DED/LOS ANGELES

5 53 PM '75

FROM DOD/WASHINGTON CRYAN

185210

SUBJECI: GORDON NOVEL, LISTER LINE CALLER

REF: DOD/NEW YORK 22934, 25 JUNE 1975

1. A SOURCE OF THE DOD/LOS ANGELES OFFICE WAS APPROACHED BY ONE

GORDON NOVEL OF DALLAS IN JULY 197

HOVEL WAS SEEKING A FILM COMPANY

TO DO THE FILMING FOR A DOCUMENTARY

TYPE MOVIE ON THE TOPIÇ

OF "THE CIA AS INSTIGATOR OF THE WAT

RATE BREAK IN". NOVEL CLAIMED TO:

BE REPRELINTING OR AT LEAST IO YAVE THE

AND

BACKING OF LAMES COLSON

NAH DIRCH

NOVEL ALSO DHOPPED THE GAMES OF JAMES GARRISON OF NEW ORLEANS

AND DAVIN WYNN (NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED>.

GETTING SUBSTANTIVE ASSISIANCE AND COOPERANON FROM THESE INDIVIDUALS.

3. WE HAVE NO FURTHER

INFORMATION IN DOD/MAD&UARTERS FILES

OY GORDON NOVEL. WE HOPL

• THAT THIS MESSAGE WILL

AT LEAST PROVIDE

SOME BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON NOVEL IN THE OFF

CHANCE THAT HE

SHOÜLD CALL YOUR OFFICE AGAIN.

-A. FILE: HH-27311. E2

SE

RET

IMPDET CL BY 818877

---

