# 104-10437-10059

## Page 1

104-10437-10059

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

íg.

› OChief

SRS

DC/SRS aod C/ FIOS/ SR:

M. D. Stevens

PERO%,

Rulnh

7:41261

18. Cutobe'r 1967

Document Number

for FOlA Rovier on

343-1055

MAR 1977

Vitb reicience to Ralph PIRAT, who is rentioned in

paragraph? of the attached memorandum on Richird S. CAIN

dated 9. October 1967, he would appear in all prob bility to be

Subject who in the spring n£ 1963 became of interest in ICS (00/C)

for routine exploitation as

a source of forcign positive intelligence.

2. On 28 June 1963, Security idvised DOS regarding an un-

substantiated report that Subject subscribed to the Communist

publication 'VOZ do MIXICO" and was a Communist leador in

19-41. He icportedly was & leader of the Communist nucicus i:

the Chicago Mexican colony.

i-cording to a notation dated 6/26/63,

this information was" considered ressived in subject's favor through

1959 B.I, conducted on dubject's sister. DOS wae also informed

that Subject's sister (Maria Guadaiuse GALLARDO, with various

akas) was reported by reliable informants to have been a member

of the Mexican Commisalon of the Communist Party in 1946 and a

card carrying Communist Party member in 1951. Luring an inter.

viewin 1954, she admitted attending rieetings of the Communist

Party and a Communist Purty school during the mid-1930'a in Chicago

but denied having attended Commurist Party affairs subseguent to 1915,

Or *5 ever having been a member of the Curmunist Party.

3. Tith reference to Guillermo ESCOBAR, whom Subject

(PDREZ) is said to have given Horace SPRED III, $199 499, an d

lead, he may or may not an Guillermo (ESCOBAR) MARTINEZ, ala:

Gulllermo (MARTINEZ) ESCOBAR, I141.260, a M'usican citizen whe

in October 1956 rag lasued an operational approval for use as a mema

(ber of the LIPSTICK Teamin Musico under

(approval was cancelied by? IllIl in i memorandum dated; November

1957. There is no derogatory information in ESCOBAR's file and no

information on him since 1957.

SECRET

Gliver

Excluded iron mitcalis.

down rading aits

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

The only other Guillerino ESCOBAR on whom there is

information in Security Indicen l6 an individual by that narae listed

in a 5 Decomber 1913 report on The Fourth (TROTSKYITE) Inter-

national. This Guillermo ESCOBAR, Secretary General of the

Feasracion de Obreras de Imprente di Shiic, wa: listed as

5 one of

the personalities in the Partido Coreto Revolucionaria, an affiliated

Chilcan organiention.

M. D. Stevens

Attachment: memo did 9 Oct 67

MADS/cor

SECRET

---

