‘04-40265-10448| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

20 Cetot cideaied

MFMORANDUM YOR THE RDURD
SUPJLOR) UighlAnhta of Tape-Recorded Gonvérsation 4n Mood Retwoen

Rr, Willfam D, Pawley and an Unidentified Cuban during
Poriod 17-18 Ootober

1. On 9) Ostobur tho underdignod and of H/3
Latcned to the plsy-beck of 8 tans, brought to Heehingten from Mant
: and given to Colonel Mng by #r. Pawley on 19 Cclober, which wus @
4 Feeotding of Mr. Pavley's converautions with two Cubans during the
: perlod 17-18 October, The first converastion was with on unidentified
Cuban, bolLaved to bo 9 mebler of a group of wealthy anti-CASTPO Cubana,
Resbora of which have talked to Mr. Pavlay recently ebout their
: plane yor asbotaye of the coming gugar harvest a9 reported in UMIA}32
} dated 2 October. The second Cuban waa AKPACA=1, a Cuben journplist
E ef operational intorest to Station Habana, and 4 soparsto memorandum
19 submitted on that conversation,

4 . 2 . Tho unidentified Cuban, who had somawhat of an accent and
spoke indiatinctly, won difficult to understend. “He mentioned o i‘
mosting "with como of our people who came up fron Cuba" to disouse L
pians, He paid hie group had been contacted by @ representative of : E
General Joe Bleutorio PRDRA7A, leader of Cuban revolutionary groups
in the Dominiean Kepublic, who wonted to know what action their group
i bod taken and vas told that they had ® plan “to start-sabotege". The
j Cubsn said the PEDRA2A representative said thar group (tho PIDRAZA
} i group) had four provinces organised in Cuba, mentioning Conaguey and
7 _ Santa Clara, and that they had two provinces yet to be organi ved =
(ae Habana and Matenios,

i - 3. The-Cuban aid his group noedod twe things «= morc] backing
H and xonoyy he pointed out that Cubans in Cuba ere afraid to start an
i : underground movement, and thore was no way to raise funds, ote. Mrs
rf Pawley g&ve him ne encouragement on the money angle, saying that even
i if there were Americana willing to rus the risk of becoming involved
in Cuban revolutionary activitica by furnishing money for such a
ovonent, which he doubted, he felt that at the prosont time 1t would
; De like “putting money dam a rat-hole" for the following roasonst :
i (1) there is no unity among the onti-CASTRO groups, and there are ab
: east 10 that he knows of who are working absolutely indeendently of
: Gae anothers and (2) CASTRO ig. in control of the country and hes th
= support of a larre. number of Cubans, especially the under-privileged.
' Rr, Powley said he felt the Cuban economic situation vas worsening
fast ond that if it gets bad enough, a large nunber of Cubang will
turn on CASTRO; tut until that tine comes it would be dangerous to
try to organise © rowolutionary tovenunt,

SECRET

273 7%



i
t

ee

ode

‘lg He. Potey caked the Cuben if hia group felt they had oral
Support of the ¥. 3. 2nd the Cuben replied that thoy wonted-U, te
roral oupport but whether they hod st or not, they felt they were
obliged 10 carry through with their plong. “Mr. Pevloy raid ba didn't
know whet to tell him =» would have to think about it und goe 1f ‘anys
thing could be dons. Ho said, Shaving boen connctud with the U. Se
Governiont,-I ean't get involved in revolutionary movemnte®, sl6o
Seid he would hate to aoe tho Rowlnioan Government sot involved,
wiieh wbyht be difficult te avoid with oo many Cuban oxiles there,
bat commented that ho uvisretood "the Doniniean Governnent hasn't

_ given then a dino’.

Harths ‘thazpe
WB/TIT/CARTB

SECRET

