# 104-10128-10157

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10128-10157

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REF

Chief, Personnel Security DiVIBIOn, OS

25 October 1963

Chief, Costact DIvLE1O0, 00

#34C2950RTLI, LIbero - 00-1-3, 279,270

Our nemarands dated 9, 19, and 2) August 1963, same subject

1. The attached copy of 00-A-3, 279,170 cantatas tatar-

nation pertaining to Subject which may be of interest to the

FBI. II so, please do not disclose the same of our source.

2. Hil you kindly refer to paragraph 6 at the report

and advise us concerning the propmety of our sourcels in-

terest in writing and visiting subject. Mould the Bureau

object to this?

3. Thie report has received no further diesenination.

4. Any questions pertaining to this memorandu abould

be directed to HIs. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 2202.

I. H. ASHCRAFT

Attachment: As stated above

Lo"..

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14.00000

CSMRSENTIAL

66 7-3,277,17.

Libero räcciarde1l1 (Correct) 22 October 1963

SUBJECT: US Repatriate, Ilbero Ricklardel (Rikklerdel), feedham

Heights 94, Massachusetts.

REF

• Pare ra the our detached l

our memo, dated 31 dul 61, forwarded under

1. After all this time, ve finally (although inadvertently)

obtained the name of the gentleman referred to in the above reference;

the subject of this memo.

SABESS

05

Our source, LDr. Denny D. Pidhayny! Aerospace Corporation,

recently received a letter from Professor Alexis G. Ivakhnenko stating

that subject had returned to the fold, Following 1s an excerpt of the

"It seems to me I speak vorser Inglish than sore times ago -

especially after my neighbor Ilbero Ricklardel (Rikidardel)

Ithe typing was hard to decipher because of strike-overg or

the second and third letters) went home for Needbam Heite

94, Massachusetts. It was good praxis for me to speak with

him. He is complicated man having good and bad sides.

Shortly

to tell, he is rather egoistic man who did not think about

Coumunism or capitallem.

Having the strong complications

In his family, he dos not love his wife but wanted the such

avorce when the children remain with his mother but not with

the wife, because he considers her as mentally weak.

He hoped

to find the answer in another system. Here he received

rather good apartment and salary - 150 rubles per month, but

became homesick. Even the beautiful nature of Klev seemed

to him gray and bore (bare?). With great difficulties,

mainly from the USA side, hi got permission to return to

hone.

There wait for him two big problems: first-to

solve the problem with wife and children. The old fashtoned

society of leecham will be against him. Second - the State

Department cannot "forgive' him his coumopolitical bebavior.

"And poor Norma [undoubledly Libero's vife) bas no mensto

live and cannot find the job in USA, even as the baby sitting

woman. She is very tired and almost 111. Her only sister

tells her the price of the meal which she eats. LibEro 1s

rather stingy, as many people abroad, exoept you, of course!

Her situstion 1s very tragic."

3. Earlier In the Letter, Alexis asked Pidhayny to write a welconing

letter and maybe later visit with him. In this regard Alexie sald,

would like to know his destiny after return houe."

And later, he sald,

"Do not ask a word about Norma from Ilbero, 1t makes him fierce. He really

does not love her. Nevertheless I vould like to know the future of this

family and maybe help them in any way - for instance I can try to send

the medicine which Norma I1kes and cannot find In the USA."

?!

GREE 1

Excluded frora entereti:

dornstaling and

3/p1

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTAL

4. Perhaps the Bureau would like to have a next door neighbor's

contribution re a recent repatriate. If so, please do not divulge our

source's name.

5. Too, Lalbero might be an excellent source of blo data on

Ivakhenko, having lived next door to him for a few years. With a

B11ght amount of pressure, he would probably be a most willing source.

6. With reference to Dr. Pidbayoy) vriting to and visiting this

Individual, we advised him to hold off unt1l such time as ve vero

notized differently. Therefore, would you please check with the

appropriate Bureau staff to determine the extent of their Interest and

whether or not our source would be cleared to write to and/or visit

him?

7. Please advise.

- end

GROUP 1

Excladed from automa

darneratine art

₴

---

