# 104-10169-10230

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10169-10230

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

HEHORANDUM FOR THE FUCORD

7 July 1965

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce.

08

DATE & 6 July 1905

03

1. Bubfoct called R. B. BANIADO WH/C/FI/ID case offIcer on 6 July et

1500 hours to infory that be had vary ungent and important information ha

rasted to discuns. Subject vas asked 11 be coula elaborate or Bire a alux

as to ubet 1t vas ail about and he raplied la could sot discuss it ovar ta

чагарроже.

Subjoct van then asked 11 he could travel to Washinston, D. Ci,

and he replied ba could not make it for at. least two days and duced that

so salt the information vas too hot to lot 1t go that long a timo, Eubjest

ras atrined that ba vould be cortested by. taleptone later in the dey.

subjeos vas contested by pheive at 1545 os 6 July, to ask bils agala

voat sudo bla Laformation tO ugent rEd uhu 18 Imaiied.

Subjock 831d 1t

tavalved one Viotor ESPINOSA bo vas prescutly in lieN York and that

ESPiOBA varked IcT tba Agonay and had just returned from ParIn and Spala.

and bad to nee nonsone fros the Agargy.

Subject than gave Is ESPIRORA'S

addrass and ralaphone number es 415 Fast 520d street, it York civy,

ralapDose HA. 1-7875, is 00se Va viBbed to cantact ESPINOSA. Bubject

also atated that ba lad giron ESPIOSA the lanhlastor sterilo mabor ad

3.

81$j00o talaphorad agala de 1625 to tarora that SAPINOBA VRO AS

tomo at the sasant and vas plannias to 80 out nnd raquasted that sougoro

abould onll. his. Sutjoot ves told that it rould be difficult to contest ain

at sha sovant, but that te vould call him 14 tha Morning of l July.: Artas

dinosanlug ESPINOSA with WI/C/TO personal, 5 vas adriead thet subjent 1o

a natoontent and sor to content bis ot all.

A. Mr, Joba CAPTORO, WI/C/0B8, NAO CONtACiAR On the BaTAIne or T July

1903, and roquestad to contan II llainan and brios than that ESPINOSA

Maa seals tryiII to contest the Asanay and to pleese notisy Duereal 11 Men

Jark of tble sart.

KI. BRA POPICH HAVINOd I: CASTORO that the bureall

oould not ant an on istartedlery for the lenses.

[. B. 12300247 03

SECRET

HAHARAdING ANd

201-285147

##: 1 95-84-8-7445

S/g0

---

