104-10186-10122)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

©

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

material contains informatica ePmcerng the National Defvase of the Calted States witatn’ the meaning ef tbe Iiysoace Lat

Cece TH and tH the Wransmemace or fevolation Of WALCR In aay meneer te Gm uBeetberuend perwom m preasbrind Oy

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Countay Cuba

SUMECT Osmin FERNANDEZ Concepcion

pate of 1964
INFO,

a Washington, D.C.
Date aca. September 1964 FE
Til 15 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ARE OU/UNITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTINT 1S TENTATIVE

REPORT NO, CSCI-316/01221-64
‘DATE DISTR, 24 Septeaber 1964

NO. PAGES: 1

REFERENCES CSCI-3{773 , 366
17 October 1963

FIELO_REPORT NO.

sourcsi A former Cuban IS officer who served withthe Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is omof a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action, on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Source, although he does not know Osmin FERNANDEZ Concepcion,

heard that FERNANDEZ was going to be assigned to the Direccion
General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).
According to source, FERNANDEZ, who is somewhat effeminate, is a
friend of Manuel PINEIRO and Cesar CUENCA.

Headquarters Comment

1. Aside from the information included in the, above referenced
report, the records of this Agency reveal no additional
identifiable information on Osmin FERNANDEZ Concepcion.

RETURN TS Say
ck grou .
Bona Ree

3

'

’ SECRET

. NO FOREIGN DISSEM

resi Tatar, Tray tate

REP_CINCLANT CINCSO # _I&NS

a

heed dutroehon Indicted by “#™)

roraue

CSCI-31601221-6.
+XO PROJECT (AMNUGS1) -

WH/SA 7 (1) WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

onsoLeTe tom +

ra *
a

a

