(104-10112-10462) eee 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

SECRET.

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION DISPATCH NO-

i FNSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

] This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available in-
formation. It is pot to be shown to the subject. =

|. Normally, headquertera will be unable to issue en approval unless requester furnishes answers to all questions
te pre parts I end II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the ap-
plicable provisions of FR 10-215, paragraphs 6a, 8, 12b and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or com-
plete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10-215.

_ Three (3) completed copies of PRG part I (including copy in subject’s handwriting, if possible) end two (2) com
pleted copies of this form ust be sent to headquarters a s00n ae possible.

. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRQ format in two (2) copies.
Fill in all items, if information obtainable. If item not applicable write "WA." If additional space required
for item, use reverse side of page keyed to appropriate item number.

> ERYPTONYM 2. PSEUDONYM

Harold R. NOEMAYR

SECTION | CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT
1. INDICATE HOW, WHEN, WHERE, WHY. AND GY WHOM SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED.

92
NOWHAYR was first recruited in Pansma as ((UDROPATHETIC in November 19/8
and transferred to Costa Rica in approvec Project. Subsequently

has served under the(B}eapzaL Project, AMPHODARCH and finally in LISTE.
JT

2. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT COULD BE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY RESPONSIGLE CASE OFFICER FOR
HANDLING. IF SO, INDICATE TO WHOM.

Subject can easily be turned over to, any KUBARK Case Officer.

SB. LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS WHO HAVE HANDLED SUBJECT OR WHOM HE KNOWS OR HAS KNOWN, GIVE NAMES BY WHICH THEY HAVE
BEEN KNOWN.

Subject has been handled by various Case Officers in Cuba, Mexico, Panama,

Costa Rica, and the U.S.A.

FORM NO. 1
FORM NO” 1050a REPLACES Form 51-950 tact

WHICH May BE USED. SECRET
apd


: “SECRET
MOTIVATION AND COKTROL

SECTION UL

y. ESTINATE SUBJECT*S MOTIVATION, (Be detailed, if possible cite evidence. Do not use stock comment such se “anti-

communist.)

Patriotic - U.S. citizen

D. INDIGATE WHAT CONTROL, IF ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (If mo control, or if there ie a Lack of real control

explain. )

Control: U.S. citisen, and therefore subject to prosecution, monetary,

U.S. citizenship pending for wife.

SECTION TUN COVER

~ COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MEETINGS.

Social: Subject is now in direct contact with Oliver R. BYNAM, C/WH/3/Mexico.

2. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANTS.

Subject will not furnish information. He has a cover employment established by
CCD. We will rst work inside KUBARK buildings.

TS INDIGATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THINKS HE (Will work) (Is working).

Witting KUBARK.

SECTION IV THTELLIGENCE CONHECTIONS AND TRAINING
EXPLAIN SUBJECT*S KNOWN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. INDICATE THE EXTENT
SUCH CONNECTION IS KNOWN OVERTLY.

1

Received intelligence training hy the Aray.

LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (Agents, relatives, friends) WHO KNOW OF SUBJECT*S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
Argentina CORDERS de » wife
Consuelo CORDERO, sister-in-law, residing with Subject
Mario CORDERO, brother-in-law, in Costa Rica
Antonio CORDERO, brother-in-law

3. EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.

Received intelligence training from the Army. He was given covert training by
KGBARK from 5 October through 25 November 1953 and again from 25 March through

7 Way 1957, and from 21 April through 23 May 1958.

SECTION V COLLABORATION POTENT! AL
INDICATE OTHER FOREIGN POWER SUBJECT WOULD GE MOST LIKELY TO COLLASORATE WITH BECAUSE OF HIS IDEOLOGY OR PAST
ASSOCIATIONS. EXPLAIN.

in

None

2
SECRET


+ SECRET
SECTION VI OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT

+ UEP pUBIEET HAS BEEN USED OR CONTACTED BEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN WHICH HE WAS ENGAGED AND THE TYPE OF INFOa™
MATION HE HAS FURNISHED.

In the past NOEMAYR has handled Cr penetration agents, reported on Cuban and

other Central American revolutionary activities.

INDICATE HOW AND FROM WHOM SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION.

Will not collect information in the U.S,

3. INDICATE WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION HE FURNISHES.

NA = see 2 above

4; DETAIL SUBJECT*S PROPOSED FI OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

Svbject's exact duties have not been decided upon.

5. DETAIL SUBJECT’S PROPOSED PP-PM TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

None

zy

SECTION VII zy PROPOSED| Liaison) OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

1+ DETAIL SUBJECT’S PROPOSED(LIAISOW TYPE CONTACT OR OPERATIONAL USE:

A+ WHERE SUBJECT 1S AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT:

NA

8. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN ODYOKE AGENCY:

mA

SECTION VIEL AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

+ OER SOIM NATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT: 1.£. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER: REMUNERATION, IF any: AGENCY
PERSONNEL KNOWN To SUBJECT.

Subject's Career Agent

/ 3
= Ipy SECRET


lifes Iii : SECRE: ‘
QUALITICATIOAS FOR CTKER OPERATIONS iH EEE EereeErErEE '
H Or ERATIONS. |
H x bk rz os ‘ |
H
Phere le 18 ear cer ZGULAR SALA i

COMMODITIES, SUBSIDY OR OTHER METHOD, SPECIFY ANU GIVE DETAILS.

Sybject is a GS-12

2+ EXPLAIN ANY PROMISES, OTHERWISE NOT COVERED HEREIN, MADE To SUBJECT. (Example: Commitments regarding evacuation
of subject and family.)

He has a written contract

SECTION Xt CE AND SECURITY

T. INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES WITH WHICH SUBJECT’S NAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.
All checks have been completed in past. Ho derogatory information.

| No new name trace is being conducted.

if

2. INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.

See #1 above

3 INDICATE WHETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL AP- 4. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED
PROVAL FOR SUBJECT*S USE HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY OBTAINED.

—__CSA

EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER, RELIABILITY AND SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE WHERE POSS:

3 duly 1957

Subject has never been involved in any breaches of security.

6. EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETION IN WHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED WHICH MUST SE EVALUATED FROW A
CE/OPERATIONAL’ SECURITY VIEWPOINT.

bas deen involved in
. He vas not

STON EI



SECTION XIII AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS
1. INDICATE SUBJECTS HOBBIES OR INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIC, ETC

Subject has done professional photograchy and writing.

SECTION XIV GENERAL
1. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS HE COULD PASS AS A NATIVE
OF A COUNTRY OR REGION OTHER THAN HIS OWN. EXPLAIN.

No. Fluent Spanish but too gringo apnearing.

; INDICATE WHETHER INFORMATION IN PRO PARTS J AND I! WAS OBTAINED BY RESEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT, FILES,
CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.

+ If OTHER THAN ROUTINE ACTION IS REQUIRED, IF AND WHEN TERMINATION OF SUBJECT 1S EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAIN. (Also
see para. 43b, supra)

SECTION XV EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS

1. GIVE FULL DETAILS 1.E. RECOGNITION SIGNALS, S/W: WHERE COULD CONTACT BE MADE: WHAT BONA FIDES COULD INDIVIDUAL
MAKING CONTACT USE?

None

SECTION XVI MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

SIGNATURE OF APPROPRIATE SENIOR OFFICER

5
SECRET
