FILE TITLE/NUMDER/VOLUME: 1977 IG Report

(unsanitized) $

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: Pcs /LOc :

Room: 2 D1. . :

DELETIONS, IF ANY: He FORIORE REVIEW PROGRAM

DATE DAT! 5
RECEIVED | RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWE

16 Sen 78 MacDONALD



5

ve

&

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM %
RELEASE AS SANITIZED

a oy

23 May 2967
MEMCRAIDUM FOR $HE RECORD

SUBJECT: Keport on Plots to Assassinste Fidel Castro

i il
‘ : ;
Tats report was prepured at the request of the Director of = ft
Central Intelligence. Ee assigned the tas to the Inspector -
General on 23 March 1967. ‘The report was delivered to the Director,
personally, in instalizents, beginning cn 24 April 1967. The
Director returned this copy to the Insyector General on 22 May 1967
with instructions that the Inspector General: i
Retain it ia personal, EYES GULY safekeeping i
Destroy the one turn copy retained tesporerily by the .
Inspector Gereral i
Destzcy all actes and other source materials originated i
by those participating in the writing of the repoz+ my

‘The one stayback bura copy, all sotes, end all other derived
source materials were destroyed on 23 Hey 1957.

semeys ot aereenn snag anner ent newman nee

‘ais rivoon copy is the only text of the report now in existence,
eLther in vnole or in part. Its text has teen read only by:

Richard Helms, Director of Central Intel tigence
J. S. Earcen, Inspector General.
K. E. Greer, Inspector (ste sf the authors

S. D. Breckinridge, Inspector (one of the authors)

“ALL typing of rafts and of final text vas doze vy the authors.
Filed with the report are:

Office of Security ile used as source material

Memorandixs concerning Willion Harvey :

Certain MONGOOSE parers
Drew Pearsoa colums

4g

Fem amt at a EA edly a Hacc



fey REE HY

oe "Introductory Section -
eee Miscellaneous Schenes. Prior to August 1960

Aerosol Attack on Radio Station
Contantnated Cigars
: Depilatory
“ . The Gambling Syndicate Operation :
ate Phase 1 (August 1950 - Hay 1961) '
Phase 2 (Late 1961 ~ June 1963) : tf
The Wiretapping Incident
The Phyllis HcGuire/Attorney General Phase (Late 1961 - + May 1962)
‘The Long Comat ttee Phase (May - July 1966)
Schemes in Early 1963

Skin Diving Satt

Sea Shell .
_,Progect AMLASH ~ ee arch 196) :
“pLecussion of Avenootontton at High-level Goverment Meetings

- Special Group (sugneated) Meeting of 10 August 1962
Special Group Meeting of 30 July 19 : ‘ fa
The Rantficatioas of the Gembling Syndicate Operation

2, RRR mr emmmamner A DIE I LH



pas Hey

TABLE OF CONZEUTS

Introductory Section

.Scaretty of documentary evidence 2... Le ee
Pelattoaship of assassizatioa planning to govermeat polley
Risk of essassination vhea a goverment is overthrom. . . . .
Resort to symecdocke

_ : Pudlisted {atellizence oz the possibility of Castro's denise .
Accurecy of the story Drew Pearsca has

Miscellazcous Schemes Prior to August 1960...

ferosol Attack on Radio Station... ee ee ee ee ee ee
Contantnated Cigars
Depilatory -- see eee eee eee eee eee eee

Gambling Syndicate - Masel... ee ee ee ee eee

Genesis of the plot... eee ee ee ee eee eee ee eh

. “First contact with Maheu 45 it
O'Conzell named as case officer... .......22.22.-15
“ First weeting with Roselit 16

Briefing of Dulles and Catell Ye... eee. eee ee ee
First neeting between Maheu and Glancena iw
True identities of Glancera and Trufficente becase mom... 219
Role of Arafficante 19
Esrly plascirg on the means of assassination eaec it teres" see" serge see tereer |
Gunn's favolvenent with lethal cizars 2
Treichler's preparation of lethal cigars > ©
Delivery of the cizars to Gunn 7 2
Roosevelt learus of the plot res |
Possible vays of paciaging the pols : 23
Dectsica to package the poison in pill fom... ........ 28
Juan Orta is identified as the syadicate's can in Cuba 25
Guan tests the pills on gxiten pigs... eee ee ee ee
. Sequence Preceding passing the pills to O'Connell
- O'Connell? receives the pills and passes ther to Roselli... .
soe Earvey is briefed on the operation
Trafficente receives the pills and gives then to Orta... ..
Iéentittcation of Orta # Z
She Orta channel collapses «2... se eee eee eee ee
Varona is brought fate the operation ie
Edvare X. Yoss. poqreetinre sie here tetstetsieiietetielettaitelreli sts
Posellt associates O'Coz-eil with CIA
- Funds are epproved for pessing to Varo 2... ee
iE Meney and lethal pills are passed to varona . |.
i Varona's restauran’ coatact In Cuba... es eee ee ee
Eévards calls off the operation
. Disposition of the pilis es
+ List of those witting of the operation

POU HEE BBR BRAND

at UFR SARL y is


Pege

ag Syndicate = Pnze 2c eee ee ee ee ee eee eee T

e Why Earvey vas briezed on Pease Ls ee ee ee ee ee
Earvey put ia charge of the Erecutive Aczica Capability
Earvey briefs Kelas cn the Executive Action Capability... .- - 33
GJ/IN- planned assassizatioa of Luna : x

” . Approval of Froject RUTE -- +e eee ee ee eee ee eB
Biseell puts Earvey in charge of the Castro cperation 39
Harvey is told ue will head tke Cuba task force». ++ se © + 39
Farvey's first meeting with Edvards on the Castro operstion ko
Germination Of QIaLie ee ee eee ee ee ee eee eee ed
Earvey briefs Eelus on the Caszro cperucicn = sy

Differing views on the tumover to Harvey. eee eee ee ee AL
Earvey's first neetizg vita Roselli in Sew York City \
Resell end O'ConreD. go to Miele eee ee ee ee ee ee AG
Earvey leaves for Miam! vith lethal pitls 46
Roselli 1s already in touch with Varora. 2 ee ee ee ee ee MT

Harvey takes over "a going operation” uy
. Changes in gangster personnel particlzating . SHotetetetetet ete ee
= : Maceo enters the operatica 4g

Harvey supplies wespons and equiprent to Verona. 2. ee 2 ee 2 AD
Roselli reports that the pills are in Cute
ty Varona sends a three-man teum tO Cuba. ee ee ee ee ee ee SL
Verona plens to send three militia nen to Cuta 51
Harvey and Roselli agree to termicate the operation... . ~~. + 52
Roselli cases to Washingtoa to meet Harvey 53
Harvey's meeting with Rosellf observed by tte FAL . . 2. + 2 + 5H
List of persons witting of tnis phase cf the operation 5S

he Wiretapping Incident .. 2-2 eee ee ee ee ee eee ee eT

y
:

Ctancana suspects Fayllis McGuire and Tan Bovan». 2... .-~ 5T
Giencana asks Makeu to bvg 3ovan's room
Likely date of the tugging incident... 2.22 ee eee eee
Waheu asks Edvard Du Bois to do the job .

Du Bois assigns Balletti ant Earrison to the Job... ..---
Wiretap made instead of micropioze plant

Palletti is cavght ard phones Makeu for kelp. . 2 2 ee +
Maheu refers the FSI to CIA

’ Shef Edvards meets with en FSI representative . - . 2 2. 2% 6 +
Edwards intervenes with Sas Papich on Makeu's behalf

Houston intervenes with the Justice Deparment. - - 2 ee ee ee
Houston briefs Generel Carter

. Edvards and Houstoa brief the Attorney General. 2... ~~~. - G28

.

PLAPSVSSBVBy

Pe er es

Edvards sends a menorecdm record of the neetirg to Kennedy 63
Ganbling Syndicate - Pzase 2 is already woder way 2...
Felms is briefed on the neeting vith the Attorcey Cereral 65
: Bdvards varns Uarvey to clear vita tre DCI... - 2 + +

Kennedy's request on 4 varch 67 for a copy of the briefiag meso 65
rat tera ny

par Bom



Page : abe
a Ae
‘The Wiretapping Incident (sonttzvead) {
Cakcego Sua-Tizes story of 15 aug 53 re Gtoncaca &CIA. 2... 6 {
Chizagzo Daily sews story of 4D 3 re Glancama & CIA . 8 :
Esins sends McCaze a cozy of the rensedy briefiss nenorantix. . 69,
cr Rimors now connect CIA & gangsters {2 plot to kill Castro JO
; Fore eC. soe ete ete eee ttt cee
Former Makeu exployee called to testity Th
ixe Onassts-Htarchos fight over of) stipping rights... 2.0.71
Mateu is hired cy iifarchos and is Supported by CLA : 72
ee Bee nnees emcee crt te : :
She Long Committes plans to resumes the Onassis Wiretap 72 f
CIA intervenes with the Long Comittee on Maheu's behalf. 2... 73 ;
Mateu applies pressure on Cla to avota Puolicity 73 !

Wabeu indlcates he way brief Ms attorey... +... .... i

Slee te aug eee elec efiese allece ve al ver Verlag

id Skin Diving Suit. 2... Sete de edsiieiatetsteletetuisiitsttiys i
Gift free Donovan to Castro yey

: ee suak {2 bowaht and cate meg... 2... LB 1

Tee plan is overta%en by events B ! H

Jist of perscas witticg. 2... rey £7 }

Booby-trepped Sea Shel). 4 i a

. Books on Mollusca ere bought . a of {

i * The plan proves to be ‘opracticable 7 ‘

Hanes of those vitting. 2. . React sae CEP Purianene, + |

eso. :

= 4 Project AWASH ~ Rolanto Cube ae i

= “dee Eauartts meeting vith Cubela 1a Hextso City (ar 61)... . - 78 +
- 3 Cubela's role in the Cutea revolution -

BR ad Meets Ch eterna ees lors) ol a ict e etitiaie He

£ Mexico City meeting inconclusive p
§ a Guneia And Juan Orta vant to exttitrate (var 61).......,.2
3. “+ Cabela asks for meeticz in Paris (aug 61) 81
é peettage ans to attend Zelsinkt Youth Festival... ...., , ot
é tings in Helsinst (Aug <2)... ; 83
F : Meetizgs in Stockhols . . ttt te eee ee eee Be
ia : Cabela objects to the vord ‘assassinate" &
? Hectans sands (Sus 62); S/s & denciteion tontntns. 2... 2
i Meetings in Porto Alesre (Sep: 53) 85
' Paris reetirgs (Oct 63); Cubela wants assurance freq U.S.Gort . - &
t FitcGerala meets with Cutela tn Fests (dee $3) 88
i Differing verstors of viet MtsGera?4 tela Cubelas LL 90


3
3

web diet 9

Project AMIASS - Role=do Cubela (continued)

Cuba cazhe approved for Cubela, 2. 2-2 ee ee ee
Tae Black Leaf %0 schene ts discussed

Guan coaverts a ballpoint pen into a bypodersic syringe. -
Sanchez gives to Cubela in Paris walle Keamedy fs snot
Cubela asks for high-powered rifle with telescopic sight. .
Those witting of the Black Leaf 40 episote

Cutela cache put down (without =ifles) (rer G+)... ee
Cubela requests a cilencer fora FAL rife

SAS requests TSD to produce FAL silencer o2 crash basis . .
Second Cubels cacke put dow (with FAL rittes)(Jumé 6%)
Artize meats Cubeia intermilary. 2.2 ee ce ee eee
Artize agrees to reet vith Cubele persomily

Sanchez neets Cutela in Parts (Dec 64). 2-2 2 eee ee
Explanation of kow Artime and Cubecla vere put together
Artine and Cubela meet in Mndrid (Dec 64). 2-2 ee ee
“Artine agrees to furnish stleacer

Artine gives Cubela silencer and ocher special gear... 2 6
Second nene-line between Cutela and gacbli-z syndicate operation ad

Headquarters terzicates all calacis
Cubela and others arrested; plead guilty (‘ar 66)

Toe ceargeh ee ee ee ee ese
Castro asks -for leniency

Testinany about the silencer... 2.2 2+ ee eee eee
Cubela expects to be executed

Cubela sentenced to 25 years imprisoment. .. ese eee
No mention made of Cubela‘s pre-Kov 64 dealings vith CIA

ts Cubele gsc;

Memo to Secretary of State (Rusk), Subject: CIA Involve
nent in Cuban Counter-revolntionary Activities —-
Arrest of Rolando CUSZLA Secades and Sarnon Toras
GUIN Diaz,dated 7 March 1966 (added after completion
of report) .

ha Gxcure ee ee

8

BES Sgesasey

103

BRR



25 April 1967

HEMORAELM

it

Tas reccastruction of Agency involvezeat ia ptans zo
assassinate Fidel Castro is at best an inperfect Bistory. Because
of the extreze sensitivity of the operations teing atscussea or
attempted, as a cetter of princfple no official recor’s vere kept
of planning, of epzrovals, or of implésentation. The few written
records that do exist are either largely tangential to the main
Peecstenstiic events or vere put cn raper fron memory years afterard. Willies
iain arvey has retaized steletal notes of his activities durizg the
: years in question, and they are our best cource of dates. Dr.
Edvard Gunn, of the Office of Medical Services, has a record of
when he net and when acd czyptic references to the subjects discussed.
Ray Treichler, of TSP, tes a record of tyo or three dates that axe

Pertinent. Guna and Treichler vere involved in only the technical

aspects of operatiocal plenning, and their participations vere short-
{ Mved. Although freg-entary, their records are a help in establishing
critical tine frezgs. Operational files are useful in some instances,

Because they give dates of meetings, the substances of vhich may be

SANE CUR NE,

inferzed fron collatersl information.

For the most part, though, we have had to rely on information

Given to us orally by pecpte whose meaories are fogged by tine.

MORE -i

-Their recollections of dates are particulaly hazy, and soue of thea

eB TR
en certs yan nner

i
i
i



ey
C

are no longer eble to kzep the details of ene Plan separate fram those

of esothe.. We intervieved everyore wien ve could ideatity as Lkety i
: bs sarees
# to be imovledgeable, with the exceptions of Hr. Dulles end General

Cavell. A complete list is attached at Tab A. Ye did not go aa
fisting expeditions among the mere possibles. To have done so vould
have risked making witting a m=ber of enployees vno vere Previously
unvitting and, in our esticate, would have | added little to the details
avallebl: frou those directly involved, There are inconsistencies

Be

among the various accomts, but most of then can be resolved by
collating the {nfornation fumicted ty all of the identifiable

Participants in a particular Plen and by then checting it against

specific dates’that can be fixed vith fair certainty. We believe .
that this reccnstruction of vhat happened and of the thinking

associated vith it ts reasonably sound. If there are significant
Snaccuracies in the report, they are most likely to occur in faulty
ordering of the sequence of events. People still rezember much of
Want happened, tat Sey can no longer recall prectsely vien.

: 2 Meu clans very ety ts in our tovestigaticn tint the vigor

1 OE Vata pen const Ae eee 65 ene ne te

Persozally varied vith the inteusity of the U.S. Coverment's « efforts
to overthrow the Castro regime. We can identify five separate phases
' in Agency assassination Placnirg, although the transitions fro: one

ct
|



‘© enother are not alvays sterply defined. Each phase 1s a reflection
of the then prevatlirg Goverment actitude tovard the Cubea regine.

a. Prior to August 1920: All of the 1éeatifiable schenes:
prior to about August 1960, with oce possible exception, vere
ained only at aiscredt ting Castro rersonally by iaflvenctng
his behaviour or by alterizg ats <ppearance.

b. August 1950 to Avril 195L: The plots that vere batched
in late 1960 and early 1951 vere eagressively pursued and were
Viewed by at leant scce of the rartictzants as being merely one
aspect of the over-all active effort to overthrow wie regine
that culninated in the Pay of Pigs.

©. April 1961 to lete 1951: A najor ackene that vas

begun in August 1960 vas called off after the Bay of Pigs and
Tesained dormant for several months, as ad nost other Agency

Operational activity related to Cuba.

""@. Late 1961 to late 1952: That particular scheme was

reactivated in early 1962 and vas again Pushed vigorously in the
era of Project MONGOOSE and in the clinate of intense admini-
stration Pressure on CIA to do scuething about Castro and his

" “e. Late 1962 until well into 1963: After the Cuben nissjle .

crisis o2 October 1962 and the collapse of Project MONGOOSE, the

3

1
i
4



UT)

i
|
‘
H
i

. Segressive scheme that was begun in August 1960 and revived ta
Apzit 1962 was fically ternioated in early 1963. vo other t
plots vere originated ta 1563, but both vere impracticable :
and nothing ever cane of then.
We cenrot overenphasize the extent to vhich responsible Agency
officers felt thenselves subject to the, fexiniserattoa's severe
Pressures to do something about Castro ani his regine. The fruitless
and, in retrospect, often uirealistic plotting should be vieved in
tint light.

Many of those ve interviewed stressed two points that are so u
obvious that recording them here may be superfluous. We believe,

though, that they ere pertinent to the story. Elimination of the -
doninsnt figure in a goverment, even vhen loyalties are held to hia H
personally rather than to tke goverment as a body, will not

pod fai
haaieemiael cause the downfall of the government. ‘This pointwas 1

_ stressed vith respect to Castro snd Cuba in en internal CIA draft

"Paper of October 1961, viich was initiated in response to General

* Maxwell Taylor's desire for a contingency plan. The paper took the
Position that the demise of Fidel Castro, froa vbatever ‘cause, vould

offer little opportmity for the liberation of Cuba fron Commmist
end Soviet Bloc control. The second point, which is more specifically
.Yelevant to our investigation, is that bringirg about the domfall of

: * * @ government necessarily requires the removal of its leaders frog

¢

i=
7
|

we



is : -

. cui Hi jee

Positions of pover, and there is alvays che risk that tue rartict-

Pants will resort to assassization, Such -rencusislecepover-eetne

wet

CAU52_Cnk to. Gxkericok thenki ling softies of e-Prusyitio-by
v forces encouraged but-aot- controiied-by—the-Us3.- Coverments i

There is a third point, vhich was not directly made by aay of i

’ those ve interviewed, but vhich emerges clearly tras the intervievs
and fron review of files. “the point is that of frequent resort to
eynecioche--the mention of a part when the whole is to be understood,
or vice versa. Thus, ve encouater repeated references to phrases such
as “disposing of Castro,” which may be read in the nerrow, literal i :
sense of assasgirating him, vhen it 1s intended that it be read in )
the broader, figurative sense of dislodging “he Castro regime. i
Reversing the coin, ve find people speaking veguely of “doing some- :
thing about Castro” vhen it 1s clear that what they have specifically

i
1

in nind is killing hin. Ina situation wtereia those speaking may
not kave actually meant vhat they seened to say or may not have sald :

. what they actually beant, they should not be surprised 1f their oral

shorthand is interpreted differently than was intended. Xx

The suggestion vas made to us that operations aimed at the

assassination of Castro ray have teen generated in en atuosphere of

stress in intelligence publications on the possibility of Castro's

Ae a cise teas em ie kolrrae erent een nad
‘ ae 2



@enise ‘eed oa tke reordering of the political structure that would
follow. We reviewed intelligence publications fra 1930 threuga

1966, incluting National Intelligeace Esticaves, Special natiozal
Intelligence Estizates, Intelligence Memorandias, a=d Memorandins

for the Director. Tee HIZ's on “The Situation and Prospects in Cuba” _

for 1950, 1953, and 196+ Lave brief paragraphs oa itzely successor
goverments If Castro vere to depart the scem=. We also find similar
skort references in a of March 1960 and in an Intelligence
Memorandum of May 1955. In eack case the treatment is co rore nor
less than one would expect to find in comprehensive rousd-ups such
as these. We conclude that there is no reason to believe that the
operators were unduly influenced by the content of intelligeace
publications.

Drev Pearson's colim of 7 March 1967 refers to a reported CIA
Plan fn 1963 to assessinate Cuba's Fidel Castro. Fearsoa elso has
information, as yet umpublished, to the effect that there vas a
meeting at the State Departzent at which assassination of Castro - s
PpcaR PHONE Mn tbi tea actually lasted in Cota With pills to
be used in an assassination attempt. . There 1s basis in fact for each

of those three reparts. -
i a. ACTA officer passed an assassizatioa vespon to
+ Agency Cuban asset et a reeting in Paris oa 22 Sovenbder 1963.
«7. The weapon ves a ballpoint pea rigged as a hypodermic syringe.

~



Toe CIA officer suzzosted chut the Cutea 23set lead the syringe
with Bask Leaf 40. ‘he evizense indtcaves that the neeting
was under vay at the very ronent President Keanédy was shot.

dD. There was # necting of tke Sreciel Group (Azgeated)

in Secretary Russ confereace roca on 10 August 1962 at vhich

fae
i
i

Secretary UcNacara broached the subject of Miquidaticn of

Cuban leaders. The discussion resulted ia a Project 40G00SE
: action zenorandim prepared by E¢vard Lensdale. At asothes
eet Specisl Group meeting on 31 July 1964 there vas discussion of
a + a recently-dissewinated Clandestine Services infornation report

on a Cuban exile plot to assassinate Castzo. CIA bad refused

the exile‘s request for funds and kad =o involvezeat in the plot.
Sd c. CIA tvice (first in early 1962 aca again in early 1952)
é supplied lethal pills to U.S. ganbling syndicate renders working
i jin. bebalf of CIA on a plot to assassinate Fidel Castro. The 1361
plot aborted and the pills vere recovered. ‘Those furnished ia
April 1952 were passed by the gaxbling syndicate representative
"+" “to a cutan extle Jeader in Florida, vho in turn bad thea sent to
Cuba about May 1962. In Jume 1962 the exite leader reported that
a teen of three nen had been dispatched to Cuba to recruft for the
operation. I£ the opportunity presented itself, the teem would
make an attempt oa Castro's life--perhaps usicg tke pills.



FSO en ce I Senrnttnnen nee

eo paniane Pane

‘This report describes these and otter episodes ia detail; puts thes
into perspective; and reveals, that walle the events descrited 37
Drew Pearson did oczur and ave subject to being patched together

as though one complete story, the irplicatioa of a direct, causative

4 *  yelattonship among then is unfounded. : |



t : TOEKy ers esyy
5 : Sethe eres oat

Miscellaneous Schenes Prior to

March to Avgust 1950 :

We find evidence of at least three, and perbaps four, ccheres
that vere under consideration vell before the Zay of Pigs, but ve

: fhe can fix the time frame only speculatively. Those uho have saxe

a Amovledge of the episodes guessed at dates ranzing from 1959 through
1961. ‘The Harch-to-August span. ve have fixed may be too narrov, but :
it best fits the Limited evidence ve have.

&.. Hone of those ve fatervieved vho vas first assigned to
“the Cuba task force after the Bay of Pigs imove of any of these 7

schemes. ‘7 7 H

feseee tiem ttae

i db. J.D. (Jake) Esterline, vho vas bead of the Cuba task ;
force in pre-Bay of Pigs days, is probably the most reliable : H
witness on general tinicg. He may not have been privy to the

ve “Brecise details of any of the plans, but he seems at least to

+2 Bave Inova of all of then.” He 18 no longer able to beep the :
details.of oue plan separate from those of another, but each of the
facets he recalls fits souevhere into one of the schenes. Hence, -
we conclude that all of these schemes vere under consideration
Ville Esterline bad direct responsibility for Cuba operaticas.

1
t
|

c. Esterline himself furnishes the best clue as to the



"oh

possible tine span. He thinks it unlizely that eny plenataz

of this sort vould have progressed to the point of considerezion

of neans until after U.S. policy conceraing Cuba vas decided

upon about Harch 1960. By about the ead of the third quarter

of 1950, the total energies of the task force vere concentrated

in nor tine for pursuing such wills-o'~the-wisp as these. *
We are unavle to establish even a tentative sequence enong the schexes;
they may, in fact, have been umter consideretion simlteneously. We

‘ find no evidence that any of these schezes was approved at any

vee

7 ‘a: >) Jevel higher than division, if that. We think 1t most Likely that

no higher-level’ approvals vere sought, because none of tne schenes

‘

{
on the main-thrust effort, and there would have been ro interest
progressed to the point where approval to laucch would have been |

needed.

= Aerosol Attack on Radio Station

” Ray Treichler, of ISD, reseabers discussion of a schene to

we

““ contaminate the air of the red‘o studio vhere Castro broadcast his
speeches with ea aerosol spray of a chesical that produces reactions
Sinilar to those of lysergic acid (ISD). Yothing came of the idee.
.Treichler said he had discouraged the schese, because the chemical

could not be relied upon to te effective. Eeary Bortuer, also of ISD, |
a



recalls expertzentation «itt psychic exergizers Sut cacaot relate it
to Castro asa target. ie feud so one else vi > reaenbered anything
of this plot, vith the possible exception of Jake Esterline who

Bay have it confused with other schenes.

Con<arinated Cigars

N
Jake Esterline claizs to have bad in his possession in pre-Bay

of Pigs days a box of cigars that had been treated with sme sort
of chemical. In our first interview with him, his recollection vas

: that the chestval was intended to produce temporary personality
ane
{ ~) disorientation. The thought vas to sooehov contrive to bave Castro

smoke one before making a speech ané then to meke a public spectacle

of himself. Esterline distinctly recalls having had the cigars in

Res personal safe wattl bs Ioft WE: ond thet they deMoteely vere

intended for Castro. He does not renenber how they came into his

‘possession, but he thinks they must have been prepared by Ray Treichler.

In a second interview with Esterline, ve mentfoned that we bad learned

“since first speaking with bis of a schese to cause Castro's beard to

fall out. He then said that his cigars might have been associated |

with that plan. Esterline finally said that, althongh it vas :
evident that be no longer renembered the inteated effect of the

cigars, he vas positive they vere cot lethal. ‘ae cigars were never

7 -u-

rire om



.
used, according to Esterliae, tecause WA/+ could rot figure out how

to deliver thea without danger of blowacz on the Ayeauy. Ze says

he destroyed thes before leaving Wa/* ia June 1951. °

Sidney Gottlieb, of TSD, clains to revenber distinctly a plot
involving cigars. ‘o emphasize the clerity of his ee te named
the officer, then assigned to Wa/CA, who approached him with the
scheme. Although there say well have been such a plot, the officer
Gottlieb named was then assigned in India and hes never yorked in
VH Division nor hed anything to do with Cuta operations. Gottlieb
yenenbers the schene as being one that ws taled about frequently
but not widely and as being concerned vith killing, rot merely with
influencing telaviour. As fer as Gottlieb knows, this idea never

got beyond the talking stage. TSD nay have gone ahead azd prepared

the cigars just in case, but Gottlieb is certain that he did not get

the DD/P's (Richard Bissell) personal approval to release them, as would

have been done if the operation kad gone that far. We are unable to
@iscover vhether Esterline and Gottlieb are speaking of a single

" cigar episode ‘or of tvo unrelated. schenes. We found no one else vith

firm recollections of lethal cigars being considered prior to August
1960. .

esgegeaeas nee =}

acer nee ee atin edocs Cicer nnn nr te neat ii

CATER Og AD A cee! Par ret ee eared retro mnerancte gn



¥

3
é

[with tim knovledge of it.

Depilatory

Ray Treichler recalis a schene involving thallium salts, a
chenical used by woven as a depilatory--the thought teing to destroy
Castro's inage as “Tie Beard” by ceusing the beard to ‘fa out.

The chemical may be adninistered either oraliy or by absorption
"through the skin. ‘he right dosage causes depitatien; too mich
produces paralysis. Treichler believes that the idea originated in
connection with a trip Castro was to have made outside of Cuba. ‘The
ffea was to dust thallium povler Into Castro's shces when they were
put out at night to be shined. ‘The scheme progressed as far as
procuring the chemical and testing it on anicals. Treichler's
recollection is that Castro did not make the intended trip, and

the scheme fell through. Henry Bortner recenbers consideration.

_ being given to use of thallium salts (perhaps against Castro) and

Something having to do with boots or shoes. Treichler does not

remember vith vhom he dealt on this plot. Ye found no one else |



aed
U

FANS Tyra ss.
Soe se rp

Gadling Syndicate

Te first cericusly-pursued CIA plan to essaesizate Castro had
its inception in Avgust 1960. It involved the use of renders of
the erinizal uréecvorld with contacts inside Cuba. ‘The operation
had tvo phases: the first ran from August 13750 until late April
or early May 1961, vhen it vas called off folloving the Bay of Pigs;
the second ran from April 1952 until February 1963 and vas cerely
a revival of the first phase vilch had been Lnactive since about
May 1951. :

+ Richard Bissell, Deputy Director for Plans, asked Sheffield
Edvards, Directar of Security, if Edvardsa could establish contact

4

_ Objective clearly vas the assassination of Castro although Edvards

th the U.S. gambling symAtcate that ves active fn Cube. The

Claims that there was a studied avoidance of the ters in his

1

conversation with Bissell, Bissell recalls that the idea originated

with J. C. King, then Chief of WH Division, although King now

recalls having nad only Matted krovledge of such a plea and ata
-much later date—about mia-1962. :



ci

Ose

het RAAT ete

2 athena een,

‘

orane

Edverds consulted 2~bert A. Hates, a privece investigator vbo
had done sensitive work for che Agency, to see if Maheu had any
undervorld coatacts. Maheu vas once a syecial egent of the Far.
Ee opened a private office in dashington in 1936. The late Robert

Cmainghem, of the Office of Security (and also a forser Special

Agent with the FSI), imev Maheu an4 imev that his business vas having

@ shaky start financlally. Cusningten erranged to subsidize Maheu
to the extent of $500 per montz. Within six months Maheu was doing

60 well financielly that he suggested that the retainer be discontinued.

Over the years he has been intizately involved in providing support
for some of the Agency's more sensitive operations. He has since
moved his personal. headquarters to Ios Argeles but retains a
Washington office. A more detailed account of Mabeu's backgromd
eppesrs in a separate section of this report.

(Coment: Although ve see nothing sinister in it, ve are

struck by tae fact that so many of the persons whose nazes appear

in this accomt once worked for the F3I. We have already nemed
Cunningtsn end Maheu. Later to appear are William Earvey, Jemes
O'Connell, and Edvard Morgen.)

Maheu acknovledged that he hed a contact who might furnish
access to the criminal undersorld, bat Mahes vas most reluctant to
@llov himself to be involved. in such en assignment. He agreed to

-15--

Be eee ita ect nae Eo cpemternare: ote ope hit darrian cae de epecerent yee tec NO i

i
I
!
|
i
|
i
!
|



a

“

RELA RIN MeN. ati

participate caly afver ve!=z pressed by Eivares co do co. Maney

identittea Bis contact as cze Johnny Boselli, wio lived Ln Los

Angeles and bad the concession for the ice-cakirg nachines on "the

strip" in Las Vegas and vho Mabeu understood to be a nesber of the
syndicate. Maheu vas known to Rosell! es 2 can x0, bad a member of
large cusizess organizations as c ts. Edvards and Maheu agreed

that Maheu vould approach Roselli as the representative of business-
men with interests in Cuba who saw the eliniration of Castro as the

essential first step to the recovery cf their Lovesusents. Mareu
vas authorized to tell Rosell{ that his “clients” vere willicg to

Pay $150,000 for Castro's renoval.

texter 1

Soef Edvards naczed as his case officer for the operation
Jemes F. O'Comell (a forser Special Agent, of the FAL), thea Chief,

‘Operational Support Division, Office of Security. O'Connell and

Mabeu net Roselli 4a Sew York City on 1k Septenber 1960 vaere Mabeu
wade the pitch. Roselli initially was also reluctant to becoue
involved, but finally agreed to ixtroduce Maheu to “Sam Gola™ who
either hea or could errenge contacts with syndicate elenents in Cuba
who might handle the Job. Posel2i said he had no fnterest in being
Paid for his partictpation and believed: that "Cold" vould feel the

i



saze way. A nenoranti= for t=e receri prepared by S:

‘lela Zavaris
oa 14 May 1952 states: “io monies were ever paid to Rosell! aad -
Gisacana. Maheu vas paté part of hts expense acney during the pertods
that he vas in Miast.” (Giancana is “Gola.")

O'Connell vas introduced (ia true rahe) to Roselli as an employee

. of Maheu, the explanatioca teing that O'Conzell vould handle the

case for Maheu, because Mahou vas too busy to work on it full tine
himself. Ko one else in the Office of Security vas made witting of
the operation at this tire. Edvards hizcelf did not meet Roselli Z

until the sumer of 1562.

At this point, about the second half of September, Shef Zdvards
told Bissell that he bad a friend, a private investigator, vho had
@ contact who in tum had other contacts through vies syndicete
elements in Cuta could be reached. ‘These syndicate elenents in

Cuba vould be willing to take om such an operation. As of the latter
part of Septenber 1960, Edvards, O'Consell, and Bissell vere the only
“ones in the Agency vho kiew of a plan against Castro involving U.S.

gangster elezents. Zdverds states that Richard Helus was not informed

of the plan, because Cuba vas being hendted ¢ by Bissell at that tine.

With Bissell preseat, Edverds briefed the Director (antes Dulles)
end the DDCI (General Cavell) on the existence of a plan involving { tong

members of the syndicate. ‘he discussioa ves circmspect; Edvants



gt

“ee

Pas

oF SS. en omy ee tes amine,

.
deliberately avoided che uze of acy "tad words.” The deseripstve -ewa
used was "an intelligence operatioa." Edvards is Gitte sure that the
DCL acd the DDCI clearly unterstocd cae nature of the operation be
was discussing. He recalls describing the chancel es being frou & to
BtoC." As he then envisioned it, "A" vas ‘iste, "3" vas Rosellt,

. ana “c" was the principal in Cuba. Edwards. recalls that Mr. Dulles

nerely nodded, presumably in understanding and approval. Certataly,

there was no opposition. Edwards stetes thet, vhile there was no
forsal approval as such, he felt that he clearly bad tacit approval

. ‘Wuse his cm judgment. Bissell comitted $150,000 for the support *

>) ©f the operation.

: (coment: tn the light of this description of the brieftss,
it 1s appropriate to conjecture es to just vhat the Director did
approve. “It ts safe to conclude, given the men particirating
and the general. subject of the meeting, tt S there vas little

: HE JtkeLthood Of misumlerstandirg--even though the details vere

ae deliberately Wurzed ant the specific intended result was never

stated in umisteksble language. It 1s also reasonable to

Conclude that the pointed avoidance of “bad words" expaasized

to the participants the extrene sensitivity of the operatica..~

During the veek of 25 Septenter 1960, O*Coxnel1 and Makeu- vent to
: + Miami vhere Rosellt introduced only Htahen to "Sam Gola" at a meeting

- -B-

SERRE tit + fit Eo

commen: oe meme rn RET >



2

Alc N OY ML ORES TN ES REI

in tee Fonczatsbleau Hotel. “Gola” said he bad 2 =aa, vaca he
Lésntified only ss "Joe," who would sezve as courier to Cuta end

make arrargenens there. Heheu pointed out “Gola” to O'ConzelL

froa a distance, but O'Connell never met either "Gold" or “Joe.”

Ee did, however, learn their true ideatities. Aa Office of Security
penorandim to the DOCI of 2% June 1955 places the tine as "several
veezs later.” O'Connell 1s now ucertain.as to whether it vas on this

first visit to Miam{ or on a subsequent one that he and Makeu learned

the true identities of the tvo men. Maheu and O'Connell vere staying

at separate hotels. Maheu phoned O'Conzell one Sunday noratng aad
called his attention to-the Parade supplement in one of that noraing's
Miani nevspapers. It carried en article on the Cosa Hostra, with
pictures of prominent menbers. ‘The can Maheu and O'Connell knew as
"Sem Gold” appeared as Mos Salvatore (Sam) Giancana, a Chicago-tased
gangster. "Joe, the courier" (who was never identified to either
Mabeu or O'Connell in any other way) turned out to be Santos Trafficante,
the Cosa Nostra chieftain in Cuba.

pe what tine the ganbling casinos vere sti2l operating in Cuta,
and Trafficante vas making regular trips betveea Miami and Eavaza on
syndicate business. (The casinos vere -closed and gambling vas tanned
effective 7 Jamary 1959. Ca 13 January 1959, Castro announced that

the casinos would be permitted to reopea for tourists end foreigzers



fan ts

Reet annenetinne om sttenea contests 108 cee

yeti een ne

but that Cubers would be tarred. Ske cabfcet oa 17 Febresry 1959
authorized reopentog the casinos for the ‘ourist trade. Tine sagazine
for 2 varch 1939 amosnced that the casi=cs tad teen reopened the
previous week. The Kew York Mines issue of 30 September 1962
enrounced that the last of the cesinos sci!) mmcingted been closed.)
Trafficente vas to make the arrangements vith cce of kis ccntacts

inside Cuba oa ore of his trips to Havana. ©

Pall ond Sarly hinter 1950

Very early in the operation, well before the first contact vith
Roselli, the wachinery for readying the neens of assassination vas
set fa motion. The sequence of events {s not clear, but it 15
apparent that a mxber of methods vere considered. Preparatica of
sone materials vent ehead vithout express approval.
(Comment: It should be noted that maintains a stock
of equipzent and materials for operational use. When queries are
> paSe Of TSD technicians about cuteriels or devices that are not
stock items, it is not unusval for the technicians to 50
* ahead vith the preperation of the meterials or devicés essiast
the event that there is 2 formal request for them. Because of
this, uriue significance should not be attached to advance

preparations for this operatica. It should s1so be noted that



it was not unusual at the tice in question for the Chief of sD

to be by-passed 1a operations involving hi» people. While

e-

Comelius Roosevelt, then Chief of TSD, bas the clear impression
that all requests vere levied through hfs, iastances were cited
im the course of this inquiry where such was not the case. ‘The

S practices and procedures in existence at the tine ray account,

at least in part, for the differing recollectioas of what did and

vhat did not happen and for the differing degrees of significance

Qlveu develojments in the nfsds of the partietmants.)

Dr. Edvard Gunn, Chief, Operations Division, Office of Medical

Services, has @ notation that on 16 August 1950 he received a box of a ;
Cuban cigars to be treated vith a lettal saterial. He understood then :
to be Fidel's favorite brand, and be thinks they vere given to hia by ;
Shef Rdvards. Edvards does not recall the incident. Guna bas a
notation that he contacted Ray Treichler, of SD, on 6 September 1960.
reichler renenbers experimenting with soae cigars and then poanrenas
"<a uit box. He cannot nov recall viether he vas initially given two
poxes, experimenting with ove end then treating the other; or whether
he bought a box for experizentation, after which he treated the box
supplied hin by Gunn. He does not, in fact, renenber Gunn as the
supplier of uny cigars. We is positive, though, ‘that he did contaminate

a full box of fifty cigars with botulimm toxin, a virulent poison that

-21-

cataee ro ny

SVT Aten Siti Bergen et aslo prey mens “ ‘
ey Siete: “ se fie rigeemn stern aan inner nny ratte ote one Aart Cre ee A


coer y

- Abe «

Kx

IM RLM a OEE

%

"

«0

i
_

ee NR 8 FREE RAN COR BD

x

Produses a fatal {Llsess cone hours after it 1s ingested. Trefehler
ietinetiy receabers the flaps-and-ceals Joo he had to do oa the box
aad co each of the wrapped cigars, both to get at the cigars and to
erase evidence of tempering. He kept cne of the experizental cigars
end still has it. He retested it duriag our inquiry and found that
the toxin still retained 94% of its originsl effectiveness. The
cigars were so heavily contaminated that nerely putting one in the
mouth vould do the Jobs tha! intended victim vould not actually have

to rmoke it. /

* Gunn's notes show mae be reported the cigars as beirg ready /
: !
for delivery oy 7 Octover_1960. freichler's notes do not show actual

delivery until 13 February 1961. ‘hey do not indfcate to whon

. elivery vas nade. Gunn states that he took the cigars, at some

unspecified tine, and kept them tn his personal safe. He remembers .
destroying them within a month of Shef Edvards retirerent in June 1963.
(Coment:’ “Others recall the cigar pea but only as an
dea that vas ‘considered end then diccaried. Roosevelt, Chief
of TSD at the time, end O'Connell, the case officer, recall the
cigar schene, but feel that 1t vas never considered seriously.
To Gum and Treichler, vho gave it a good deal of tine but did
not participate in the broader operational discussions, the cigars

looa as izportant.)

SRA



F4vards recelis approaching Roosevelt after Bissell hed already

spokea to Roosevelt on the subject; Roosevels recalle speaking to
Edwards after Bissell dfscussed it with Edvards. Bissell does not
recall specific conversations vith either of then on-the techatcal

aspects of the probdlen, but he believes that he must have "closed the

: loop” by tsiks vith both Edverds and Roosevelt. Roosevelt recalls

& his first meeting with Edvards as being ia Edvards' office. Edvards

i = Tenenbers asking to be introduced to a chemist. He is sure that he
= é did not name the target to Roosevelt, but Roosevelt says he knew it -

i was Castro. Roosevelt believes that he vould have put Edvards in

, (uch with Henry Borner, then chief of TSD's Ceesical Division, tut

Bortner tas a recollection of such vork at that tire. * Bortaer -

recalls other cperations at otter tices, but not this one. Roosevelt

Cid sey that, if hs turned it over to Bortzer, Bortner could have
assigned it to Ray Treichler.
; Roosevelt remembers that a possible. proaches vere considered: ae

“a sonething highly toxic, such as shellfish poison to be adzinistered
-, with @ pin (which Roosevelt sald was what vas supplied to Gary Povers);

- > @). bacterial material in Mguia | fom; (3) ‘pectertal treatment of a

~ Cigarette or cigar; end (+) » handkerchief treated with bacteria.

The decision, to the best of his recollection, was that bacteria in

iguid fom vas the best means. Bissell recalls the saze decision,

~ 23-


tying 1t toa recollection that Castro frequently drack tea, coffee,

or toufLion, for which a Liquid potsca would te particularly vell

é

sulted.

Janvary - February 1961 : Hatin

Despite the decision that,a poison in liquid fora vould be most

:
|
'

destrable, what vas actually prepared end delivered vas a solld in
the form of suall pills about the size of saccharine tablets. Treichler
renenbers meeting vith Edvards and O'Conmell in Edvaris' office to

discuss the requirenent. The specificaticus were that the poison te i

stable, soluble, safe to handle, urdetectable, not imediately acting,

meeting all of those requirenents, and it may be put up in either

|

| : and vith a firmly predictable end result. Botulin coves nearest to
| Jiguid or solia fora. Treichler states that the pill fora vas

i

+, chosen because of ease and safety of handling.

(Comment: ‘The gangsters zay have had soze influence on the

+ ghotee of a nbans of assassination. O'Connell cays that in his - nea
very early discussions vith the gangsters (or, rore precisely, ;
Maheu's discussions vith them) consideration wes given to possible
ways of accomplishing the mission. Apparently the Agency-had first
thougtt in tems of e typical, gangland-style Killing in vhich

Castro vould be gunzed down. Gfancane was flatly opposed to tue



Sainte wenn,

rr tHe

uce of flreams. He caid that no one could be recrsited to do
the Job, tecause th: chance of survival and escape would be
negligible. Gtancana stated a preference fora lethal pili

that could be put into Castro's food or drink. Trafftcante
(“Joe, the courier") vas in touch vith a disafiectea Cuban
offictal with access to Castro and presumably of a sort that
vould enable him to surreptitiously poison Castro. ‘The gangsters
hazed their man inside as Juan Orta who vas then Office Chief
and Direcvor Geseral of the Office of tne Prine Minister (castro).
The gangsters said that Orta had once been in a position to
receive kickbacks from the gacbling interests, had since lost
that Eourea of incone, and needed the money.)

When Edvards received the pills he dropped one into a glass of
water to test it for solubility and found that it did not even
. disintegrate, let alone dissolve. Treichler took them back and made

‘up @ new batch that met the requirement for Solubility. Edvards

+ at thet point vanted assurance that the pills vere truly lethal. ge

called on Dr. Guna to make an independent test of then. Eivards gave
Guan money to buy guinea pigs as test anizals. Gunn has a record of a
conversation vith Treichler on 6 February 1951. It may bave related-to
the ‘tests, but ve cannot be sure. What appears to have happened is that
Gima tested the pills on the guinea pigs and found then Ineffective.



Saale

:

Treichler states teat zests of bowilin oa Guinee pigs ere not valid,
because guinea pigs have a high resistance to thfs particular toxin.
Treichler hinself tested the pills on monkeys end found they did the
Job expected of then.

We canaot reconstruct with certainty the sequeace of eveats
betveea readying the pills and putting them into tue heads of Roselli.
Edvards bas the impressica that he had a favorable report fra Dr.
Guna on the guinea pig test. Gunn probably reported only that the
pills vere effective, and Eévards assumed the report vas tased on the
results of tests on gutrea pigs. Dr. Gunn bes a clear recollection,
without a date, of being present at a meeting in which Ruosevelt
demcastrated a’ pencil desigred as a concealzent device for delivering
the pills. Roosevelt also recalls such a meeting, also vithout a
Gate. Gunns" notes record that his last action on the operation came
on 10 February 1961 vhen ke put Gottlieb tn touch with Edvards.
Gottlieb has no recollection of being involved, an impression that ie
Supported by Eicsell vho states thut Gottlieb's assignments vere of a

* different nature. “otcomnen2, vho eventually received the pilis,
recalls that he dealt with Trefchler. ‘reichler hes no record of

delivering pills at this tine, but he dces not ordinarily keep detailed

!, records of such things. 7

|
|



Ta ey evens, C'Zoznel ald recetve the Pills, and he belteves

thea. He recalls eiving three to Rosella, Presuzal
ve used fa testing zor colubiiy
‘The Cates on vhica O'Coazell reset.

woot dled
Bly 9

ty and effectiveness, °

- there vere six of

the other tree ve.

ved the pills and subsequently

7 Fabsed then to Roselli canmat te established. It voula have beea

Sonetine after Guna's novation of 10 February 1961.

Feeord of being approached about the undertaking
Barvey (former spectal ageat of the

* +, by Willtam K, FRI) tu February

ett
in connection with a sensitive Project Tlarvey was working on for 7 |
eee t

'

7 Bissell. According to Gunn's Rotes, he .
and Earvey instructed ain to at

. with Cottle! cuna's notation on this Point is not in accord with :

any of the others favolved.

-

the recollectiosot We are unable to

clarify it; the note ray have been in another context.

O'Connelt
States that J. C. King

Rosell passed the pills to Trafficante. Rosellt reported to : Srereeeeceeeeece
** OfConned that the

Pills had been delivered to Orta in Cuba. Orta :
nie arret lore to have Zept the Pills for a couple Of Weeks before
returning then. According to the &vrgsiers, Orta Got ‘cold feet.

<4



3 E (Comment: Crte lost ats position ta the Prise Mintsier's
Office on 26 Jesuary 1961, walt: Plen=izg for the operation was
Still going on fn Miamt and in Washington. He took refuge in

the Venezuelan Fabassy ca 11 April 1961 and becane the respensi-
Dility of the Mexican Estassy vhen Veremela brote relations
with Cuba 1a Hovecter 1661. Castro refused to Sive hin a sare
conduct pass until October 1954 vhen he vas alloved to leave for

Mexico City. He arrived ia Miami in early Febrvary 1965.

(it appears that Eavards and O'coazell ald not Inov at the z
tine of Orta's fall from favor. ‘hey have made no reference
te te-ascribing Orta‘s fatlure to cold feet. It vould ceen,
though, “that. the gpagsters aid know that Orta had already lost his :
access to Castro. psa wel I bin as a man vho had once kaa
© position that altoved hia a rake-off on gambling profits, a

ae

Position that he bed since lost. ‘The only Job vith vaich ve can
Associate Orta that might have alloved hina rake-off vas the ” :
one Be held in the Prine Hinister's Oftice, vitch be lost on 2 ran

t
1
!
i

26 Jemary 1961. rt seens: likely that, while the Agency thought
: I Ste casters tad asin in ata vith eagy doce to Castro, via
- they cea, bad was @ man cisgnatled at having Jost access.) _

a + The previously-mentioned 24 Sune 1966 smary of the operation
Prepared by the Office of Security states that when Orta asked out

AUN MRE TION a MORES DR ARR ee
'

ttt,



Of the assigament he

ZeeSted axother caniicate vio rede severel
atterots witkcut success. Yieltser idvards sor O'Connell) moe the

icentity of Orta‘s replaserent nor aay addétioral details of the

reported further attests.

ba:

= April 1961

Folloving the collapse of the Orta chaamel, Roselli told
O'Comell that Trafficante Inev of a nan high up im the.Cuban exile
Rovenent who might do the joo. He identified him as Tony Yarcna
(pz. Manuel Antonio de YARCNA y Loredo). Varora vas the head of the

4
H
i

Democratic Revolutionary Froat, a group supported by the Ageacy as i
Fert of the larger Cuban operation. O'Connell understood that Varoca :
was dissatisfied with the nature and tte extent of thts support and

that JSCIAVE, suspected that Varona vas not keeping his bargain vith the

Agency. :

(Comment: Reports froa the FAI suggest how Trafficante rey
- ave known of Varona. On 21 Decexber 1960 the Bureau feta geeeceee are
to the Agency a menorendim reportizg thet efforts were being 1
wade by U.S. recketeers to firence antt-Castro activities in : :
hopes of securing the Gambling, prostitution, and dope monopolies
in Cuba in the evert Castro <as overthrown. A later report of i 4 a
18 Jamzry 1961. associates Varoca with those scheres. Varona

-29-

EeOTyT FYTO Au
rm

HSE Bree tet



fe

recor’s do not show any use made of Moss by either nz Division
-0F by CA Stazr. The CSA of 7 Hovenber 1962 specifies that che :

had hired Edvard XK. Hoss, a Washington pubis relations
comselor, as a fund raiser and peblic relaticas advisor,

‘Tee. Bureeu report alleged that Hoss' nistress was one Sulfa 9

Cellint, vaose brothers represented two of the largest embdling
casinos in Cuba. ‘The Celliet brothers vere belleved to be in
touch vith Varona throug:

Moss ard vere reported to ave offered
Varora large swis of money for his operaticas against Castro,
with the understanding that they would receive Privileged
treatment “In the Cubs of the future.“ Attempts to verity these
“reports were unsuccessful. :

ott

yer

(tere is a recor of CIA interest in Hoss, but there ts
Ro {ndteation that the Agency hed any involvesent with kis :

san

in connection with Cuba. He vas crated: Covert Security
Clearances in March 1959 for use vy 1 Diviston in his (thea)
role as Rateaereeagid the Indian Enbassy and again in Noventer

“1962 for use by CA Start mier Project ZRAIOR, © pregraa for

the exploitation of political consultants. In early 1965 Hose j ea
became of interest to “the House Foreign Affairs Comittee Decause

of his reconi of. having represented various foreign govermments, ©

A nesorandim prepared by CA State in March 1965 states that the



[get approval fron Edwards" deputy, Rotert Bannerpan, who util thea

- had been unwitting of the operation. O*Conzell told Pannercan that

approval tecane favelid if Moss vere 20% used within six

roaths of the date of the approval.)

Trefficente approached Varoza and told tin that he had clfeats
who wanted to do avsy with Cestro and that they vould pay big cozey
for the Job. Varcna {s reported to have teen very receptive, siace
iv would mean that he would be able to buy bis ov ships, ems, aad
comunicatioas equipment.

(Coment: By this tice Roselli had becone certain that

O'Connell was an Agency exployee, not a subordinate of Mabeu.

Ee told O'Conne?! that he vas sure that O'Connell vas “a

governnent man - CIA" but tkat O'Conzell should not confirm

_ this to him. Roselli said that as a loyal Azerican he vould iste

do vhatever he could end vould never divulge the operation.)

Roselli vas to deliver money to Varona for expenses. O'Corzell

Rov recalls the anount as $50,000. Edvands, vho was avay at the tine;

‘isi ites $25,000. Since Edwards was absent, O'Connell had to

the operation vas knowa to and approved by Edvards. Bensersaa authorized.

passing the money acd now recal?s the azount as being on the order of

$20,06¢ to $25,000. An Office cf Security menorandtm to the DUCI,



: ested 2% Jue 1966, sets che enount as $20,i¢5 19 cosh end $2,000
i worth of comnnticatiies eguiment. Jaze Ssverlice, who signed the

i i Vouchers for the funts, recalls the amomn*s as being those stated
‘ 7 a

in the Office of Security nenoracim.
(Coment: Asa sldelight, Esterline says that, when he :
Jearned of the inteaded use of Verona, steps vere taken to H

piesa eancel the plan, Varona vas oze of the five key fizures in the

5 Revolutionary Front aod vas. heavily involved in Support of the
: epproaching Bay of Pigs operation. If St2ps were in fact taken

to end Varona's participation in the sycdicate plan, they weve

ieeffective. Tt 1s clear that he contizued as an integral part ee
of the syndicate schene.)

Woen the money vas ready, O'Connel) took the pills from his safe

end delivered them and the noney to Roselli. Roselli gave the pills

i
j
i
i

and the money to Varams, von Rosell! dealt with under pserdonya.
|, 1, HMttle 8 knova of the delivery chamels beycnd Varna. Yaroma vee
+ Delteved to bere ak asset ‘aside Culn in @ position to slip a pit

cseeet a : to Castro. Edvards recalls

Sapething ubout a contact who worked in -
4 @ restaurant frequented by Cascro and vho vas to receive the pills ana
oe Put then into Castro's food or drink. Edverds believes that the E
ye

ve WY schene failed because Castro ceased to visit that Particular restaurant. i :



Soon after the Bay cf Pigs, Zévarts sent vord Jo Rosell

fot Mabie ce

through O'Connell that the operation ves off--even {f something
7 happesed there would te no payoff. Elvarés fs sure there was a

complete standdowm after that; the operstion was dead and remained so

until April 1952. He clearly relates tre origins of the operation to
the upcontag Bay of Pigs invasion, e-d is termination to the Pay
of Pigs failure. O'Connell agrees that the operation vas called off

He believes that there was something gofrg on betveen April 1961 aad_

=

April 1962, but ke cannot nov recall vias. He agrees with BELL
Harvey that when the operation vas revived in April 1962, Harvey took
, Over a “going operation.” : .
. : (Coment: As distinguished from Zdvards and O'Connell,
: : both Bissell and Esterline place the termination date of the

assassination operation as being about six ronths before the

: Ray of Pigs. Esterline gives as bts reason for so believing the
fact that the decision hed beea made to go ahead with a massive,
major operation instead of an iné‘vidually-texgeted one Such as
this. Whatever the intention in thts respect, if the decision to

terminate was actually rade, the decision vas not cconunivated

FORA O AA LRN PO NIA EN ERC Ne ae Drain rate oe,

+ armnanieanam meee

FR te et apagnbees eee:

after the Bay of Pigs but that the terniration vas not fim ant firal.

i
H
;



: p23

effectively. It is clear that this Pleo to assassinate Castro

contizved in train until conetize after the Bay of Pigs.)

O'Connell believes that he rust have recovered the Pills, but

he has no specific recollection of having done 60. He thinks that
fastead of returaing thea to TSD be probably would have destroyed
them, most lively by flushing then dow a toliet. ‘Treienler has no {
record of the pills having teea returned ta him, but he says he is 4
quite sure that they vere. |
In a memorandum of 14 Hay 1962 Shefficld Edvarés stated that :
. knowledge of this particular operation vas Limited to six persons. H

Foe ame

. In the course of this favestigaticn, ve buve identified the following
Persons who kiew in late 1960 or early 1961 of this specific plan .
: to assassinate Castro: :

+ 1, Allen Dulles, Director of Central Intelligence 2

2, General C. P. Cabell, Deputy Director of Central Intelligence
3. Richard Bissell, Deputy Director for Plans
& ‘Sheffield Edvards, Director of Security

5. Jones Q'comeR, Office of Security, the case officer

J. D. Esterline, Catef, wi/t

smn coef

Cornelius Roosevelt, Chief, TSD

Ray Treichler, Ckemfeal Division, ISD

Edvard Gunn, Chief, Operations Division, Medical Services

stdin tie eninatinidiee Bualiaecl <e-re-apncaiememammeatonere
PP ae

'


10. Willies Harvey, CLief, FI/D

Yl. Sidney Gottlied, Special Assistant to the DD/P (Gottlied's
rage vas encountered repeatedly in this isquiry, but he
denfes ‘mowing of the operation in 1960-61.) iH

12. Robert Bannerman, Deputy Director of Security

+ 13. J.C. Xing, Chief, WH Division (He too denies knowing of :
4 ‘the operation at the tine.) A

She followirg persons outside the goverment are known to be
vitting of the operation and either mow or strongly suspect the

Ageacy's connection with it:

i
!
3

1. Robert Maheu, a private investigator

G } 2. John Roselli, the Agency's principal contact’ with the of
gecbling syndicate Z

BE 1
3. Sam Gflancana, an important figure in the syndicate j
4, Santos Trafficante, the courier and nan inside Cuba |
!
H

‘These additional people vere avare of the operation, but their

Amovleége of CIA's connection with it can only be speculated: . aes |

1. Juan Orta, the nan originally selected to poison Castro
: 2. Antonto Varoaa, @ Cucan exile leader : : : !

3. ‘Tee son-in-law of Verona, vho is known to have been involved
: ‘ with hiz closely during this tine. (The Varora 201° file nakes t
no reference to Varona having a-son-in-lew, but he identified |
this close associate as such.)



SebRet buloed £ tl i

fered

Tae Agency's General Counsel, Lavresce Houston, end Attorn:

Gersrel Rotert Kenzedy learned the full davatls of the operatioa in
May 2962. We do not imos the particulers of the report Drev Pearson

fregoaanee- dpanesserennnany

new has, but 1t may include cany of the details of this operation.

If 1t does, then the circte of those nos enculedgeable vould be

widened to include: N
1. Edvard P. Morgan, Maheu's Wasairgton attorney

2.  Columist Drew Fearson and probably his partner,
Jack Anderson

a

3. Chief Justice Farl Warren
4. James Rowley, chief of the Secret Service

+5. Pat Coyne, Executive Secretary of the PFIAB
6. Attorney General Ramsey Clark

J. Various menbers of the FEI



on epomewe

f

urged me to create such a capability." Bissell recalls d'scussirg |

Genbling Syniicate - Puase 2

Williem Zarvey, Chtef of FI/D, vas triefed ia February 1961

(vy authority of Richard Bissell) on tase ore of the guabling

Syndicate operation.” That briefing wes in connection with a sensitive
operation that Bissell bad assigned to Earvey. Earvey describes it
thus: Early in the Kenzedy adainistration, Bissell called hia in to
@isccuss vat Harvey refers to as an kreoutive Action Cepability; 4.e.,
@ general stand-by capability to carry out assassinations when required.
Harvey's roves quote Bissell as caying, "She White House has twice

the question of developing a general capability vith Harvey. He .¢
mentioned the Edvards/gambling syndicate operation against Castro
in that context, but he nov thinks that the operation vas over by

then and that reference to it vas in terzs of a past operation asa

case in point. It vas on this basis that Earvey arranged to be E
wriefed ty Ravers, Harvey's fixing of the date as February vas only i ‘

- After review of ewnts both preceding the briefing and folloving it.
Ee sys nov that might bare Den/esely as late Jamazy or as late
as March 1961. :

After some discussion of the probleas involved in developing an
Executive Action Capability, Bissell placed Barvey in charge of the istie driead wf
effort. Harvey seys that Bissell had already discussed certain aspects

ie E ca


of the problem vita Arnold Silver und with Slaney Gottiied. Since
Silver vac alresdy cut in, Harvey used 1:2 tn developing the
Executive Action Capebi'ity, although never with respect to Castro.
We did not question Gottlieb on his knowledge of the prozram for
creating an Executive Action Capebility, but Zarvey's mention of bin —
in this connection may explein a notation by Dr. Gum that Harvey
instructed Gunn to discuss techniques with Gottlieb without associating
the discussion with the Castro operation.

Harvey states that after the decision vas made to go ahead vith
the creating of an Executive Action Capability, and viile he vas
still discussing its development with Bissell, he briefed Mr. Helms
fully on the géneral concept but without meatioa of the then ongoing
Plan to assassinate Castro. :

‘The Executive Action program cane to be known as ZRRIFIE. Its
Principal asset vas en agent, GIWIN, who hed teen recruited earlier
by Ammold Silver for use in a special operation in the Congo -(eler

" mococcimatoneehitetcodtmmbr} to be nm by Justin O'Donnell.
" (O*Donneil made a survey of the scene, decided he wanted no part in

an assassination attempt, and asked to be released--vhich Bissell
grented.) The project nene, ZARIFIE, first appears in the files fa
May 1951, although the first recorded approval is dated 19 February
1962. Tue new DD/P (Selns) on that date authorized Harvey, by

-3-



2

encraniin, to hand’e the project ona special tass. Accounting for

. expenditures vas to be by cezeral category end on Barvey's certifi-

cation. he initial approval was for $14,700, consisting of $7,200.
for QUAIN's annual salary and $7,500 for operaticeal expenses.

Project ZRRIFLZ vas covered as en ¥2/D operation (ostensibly
to develop a capability for entering saves acd for kidnapping couriers).
It continued on a course separate from the Edvards/gambling syndicate
operation against Castro until 15 November 1961. Esrvey has a note
that on that dave be discussed with Bissell the application of the
TRRIFLE progran to Cuba. Harvey says that Bissell instructed him to
take over Edvards' contact vith the criminal syndicate and thereafter
to mm the operation against castro. Harvey adds that, asa completely
unrelated development, shortly after this discussion with Bissell. he
vas told by Helns that he vas to be placed in charge of the Agency's
Cuba task force. :

1961, - Early 1962

Rervey recalls that he was very busy with a mnber of thinge tn
the period that folloved the discussion with Bissell that led to his
taking over Edvards' Castro operation. He vas suring over his
Fesponsibilities in FI/D. Ee ves working with NSA on the Martin/
Mitchell defection case. He was reading in on Cuba operations and



i

was engaged fa dafly meetiags concerning tes.
chefs"

fe attended a statisn
conference in Paraza ta late Jaavary ana early February.

Frbres: ¥arch 1 E ‘

Earvey recalls’ a first neeticg sith Edwards tn’ February 1962
oa the subject of the Castro operazion. fie also recalls working
out the details of the takeover during March.
(Coment: After Earvey took over the Castro operation he
ran it as one aspect of TRRITIZ; hovever, he personally handled _/
the Castro operation and did =ot use any of the assets being
developed tn ZARIZLE. He says that he scon came to think of the
Castro operation acd IRRIFLE es beirg Syacnymous. The over-all i
Executtre Action program cane to be treated in his mind as deing |
synonymous vith Qin, the agent working on the over-all Progra. i
!
Fe says that ven be vrote of ZIRIFIS/QI/IN the reference vae to :
Executive Action Capability; when he used the cryptonym ZRRIFLE i
alone, he vas referring to Castro. He said that his corresponience ©. ?
would disclose this distinction.

.
We revieved the. correspondence 7 ic i
and found it for the post part unreve: 7 :

(ttex Eervey left Task Force W and vas vinding up ‘tis
headquarters responsibilities {n preparation for assignment to

Rowe, he wrote @ mezorandia to the Chief, FI Starr, dated 27 June.


t
a7

cativa for exploying

1953, stating that the origizal Ju:
Q53LI no louger existed end raising the q:estioa of QU4IN's
termination. The reconis (GLIA-197%, 24 April 195%) show that
QALY vas teraizated by the Luxembourg Station on 21 April i
196k. There is no indication in the file that the Executive

Action Capability of Z2R012/GS4I wis ever used.) 7

April 1962

Edvards recalls Harvey coatactizg hin ta April and asking to be
put in touch with Besell{. Edvanis cays that he verified Eelas‘
e@pproval and then made the arzargenents. Earvey states that he triefed
Felms before hfs first neeting vith Roselli, explaining its purpose,
end that he also reported to Heles the results of his neeting with
Roselli. Harvey states that thereafter he regularly briefed Helus
oa the status of the Castro operation.

i (Comment: Edvards statenent that he “verified Helms’

approval” is the earliest inifcation ve have that Hr. Helms hed i
"” yeen made witting of the gasbling eymAlcate operation against
Castro. Harvey added that, vhen he briefed Eels om Roselli, { :

he obtained Helns' approval not to brief the Director.)

the specifics of the turnover fren Eivards/0'Comell to Harvey. Not

Eévards, Harvey, and O'Camell have differing recollections-of Boon anes



ay

all of the differences can be resolved--n0% evea dy folloy-up

. interviews in which ‘xe information furnisked by each was checked

with each of the other tvo. There is no disagreement on tce fact

wee

of the turnover nor 01 when it tock place. The recollections vary
decidedly, though, oa the status of the operation at the tine of its i Seeeeeer

transfer to Earvey and on Just tov clean the break “as between phase

eee one under Edwards and phase tuo under Harvey. : i :
foe a. Edwards believes that the operation vas called off : {
ae

i : completely after the Zay of Pigs and that there was no further

‘ operational activity in coasection with it uatil Harvey met

ste:

‘ Roselli and reactivated the operation in April 1952. O'Connell

introduced Harvey to Roselli, and Edvards kad nothing further tr
: do vith the operation--vith the exception of a meeting with
Attorney General Robert Kennedy in connection vith the Phyllis ee
. McGuire wiretapping incident. (‘he wiretapping incident is
. described in a separate section of this report.) Edvards*
records show that on 14 Hay 1962 Harvey called Ravarts “and

Paes eta

” Rosellf for the future." : : i
». Earvey's recollection of the turnover tends to support
Edvards' summazy, but he claims that he took over "a going

i

i

|

!

{

$

j :

[ indicated that he vas dropping any plans for the use of
{

- operaticn." Scne support for this claim is found in bis description



REAR tea,

Me Juct bos it vas planced to get the poteca into Castro's food

by employing, coueoze with access to a restaurant frequented by
, cestro% The weckanties vere identical vith those described by Hele

Edvards and as reported in our earlier faccoust of phase one of

é
¥
j

the operation. # ‘
O'Connell's account of his own role in the operation

Ce
iin the early veeks folloving Harvey's supposed takeover mikes it : i
evident that there vas not a clean break between the Office of i
Security's esponsibility aad that of Earvey. Further, O'Connell :

nov beLleves that there must have been “sonething going on” =

peceresers cer

detveen April 1961 (after the Bay of Pigs) and April 1962, but

he claims to be unable to renember any of the particulars.

here are other dinagreements among the three on facts. They are

reviewed here, not because they alter the essential fact of the ‘
turnover or of Harvey's sole responsibility for the operation after é i
a certain point in time, but because they suggest that persons who :
vere supposedly uvitting of events efter the tumover were in fact

“vitting, because they were not effectively cut off At the instant of

: i

turnover.
Harvey's notes show that he and O*Comell vent to lev ‘York City :
to meet Roselli on the 8th and 9th of April.1952. 0'Coanell recalls A

it as being early in April end that the introduction was nade on &

MSA a Pe Ten ror


om

Sunday, watch vould maze it ite 8th. Harvey cays that oaly he ec4

Rs,

encney

O'Connell met vith Roselli; C'Connell says that Maheu was also

present at tht nesting. Bovk are positive of the eccuracy of their”

recollections, and each gives reasons for his coafidence in his
Ee clarity of recall, ‘The significance, for purposes of this. inquiry,
is whether Maheu aid or did ot knov that the operetion contimed

uoder Harvey.
7 4. Harvey is certain that he vould have renembered it if
Maheu were present. He and Maheu were in the same FBI traning
class at Quantico in 1940. %e does not remenber having seen .
cD Maheu since he, Harvey, cene with the Agency in 1957, although be
. acknovledges that he ray have ceen him once or tyice socially.

- He 1s sure he has not seen Maheu since 1952 vhen Harvey vas
. assigned to Berlin.
"be OfConnel, vho set up the meeting, is just as positive
that Kebeu vas there. Ee describes a series of events that
; , Teassure hin of tbe accuracy of his mnory. The four of thes
” eravelea teeeseuay to Rew York. They net at the Savoy Plaz

‘Hotel. (Savoy Hilton?) where all four stayed. After discussions,
Maheu suggested dinner at the Elk Roos, a fashionable restauzant
in @ nearby hotel. O'Comell says that Mabeu picked up the tab.

They finished dinner about 9:30 or 10:00 p.m. Roselli wanted to

ae cae rene ae UR ERTL YEN MLONRPYES INS AIA: HMA! SBR OS TOE

|



buy tae group a nigaccap, but since {t ves Siméay atghs nearly

all of the vers vere closed. They walied aroud the neignbor- etniesecerare” ‘ay

erie : hood locking for aa open tar and fizally vomd up at the

7: Copecabann. ‘hey vere refused admittence to the bar because of .
4 rule restricting edziasioa to couzles, co they cat at a table

where they could watch the floor shev. Roselli found ulasele

+ facing a table at “ringside” at vhich Puzllis McGuire vas sitting i
_ : with Dorothy Kilgallen and Liberace for the opening night of
Singer Rocenary Clooney. ‘To avoid Payllis McGutre's ceetng him,
Roselli got his companions to change their seaticg arrangenent
so that his beck vas turned to Hiss McGuire. Mubeu was an
integral part of allthis. (Roselli's reacon for not ~aating
Phyllis McGuire to cee him vith his caxpaztens vill becase
evident from ber role in the viretapping incident, vhich is
. described in a separate section of this report.)
_ The tw differing recollections camot be reconctied. As a point of
interest, Eivards stated that ven he briefed Harvey on the operation
- "he deliberately omitted reference to Haheu in onler to screen Keheu
‘off from Earvey's takeover of the operation.
The next significant point of difference has to do vith vhat
* happened after the Nev York meeting. O'Comell told uz that te and
Rosell ‘left New York for Miami the next day (presumably 10 April)

~ ks -



”

and remained there until Harvey arrived. Earvey, cn the other kacd,

vee

recalls a meeting with \'Conmell aad Roselli ia Washingtoa on 1h April.

O'Comell, at first, did not recall the Washingten reeting, but,

_vhen given Kervey's. chronology, he said ke aid recall retuming to

Wastington to eet Eervey for scme pzrpose but that the details are
N

vague in his nind. Harvey at first thought that the 14 April meeting

int hae ever ate

in Washington was O'Connell's last contact with Roselli during this
secded phase of the gambling syndicate operation. O'Connell told us

|

|

‘

!

:

:

|

|

|

|

that Roselli vas apprehensive over the new arrangenept (and of Earrey : :
personally) and asked O'Connell to resain on for a time, vhich O'Connell
agreed to do. When told that O'Conrell vas sure that he had continued
oa in the operation for sone two or three veeks after Harvey's take- .
over, Harvey agreed that this was cozrect. O'Connell's carryover was
for purposes of continuity., We cannct be sure of the date O'Connell
vas finally eliminated frou the operation. He vas in Miemf with
Roselli and Harvey perbaps as late as 27 April. His role eahar’
“operation hed definstely ended by Sune 1962 ven he ws assigned FCS
to Okinawa. faut i ifannean tain

_ Harvey recalls leaving Washington for Miemt by automobile on :

19 April. He thought that he took delivery of the pills froa Dr. Gunz

Yefore leaving. Gun has no record of any such deliveryat that tine;
his last record conceming pills is dated February 1961. Ray Treichler

- 46 -


does have a rotation of deliverirg four pills (sxe capsule and three
teblets) to "J.C." on 18 Aprid 1962, Treichler reeds this as being : a
. Bie ep woeged:

Jia O'Consell. When told of this, Harvey agreed that it vas probably,

correct. O'Connell elso feels that he must bave been in Washington :
: for the pill delivery. é 7 :
Harvey says that he arrived in Miami oa 21 April 1962 and found

Roselli already in touch with Tony Verona, the Cuban exile leader vo

t
H

: bad participated in phase one. It is at this point that the final
i 3 ‘

‘

‘ “AS fference in recollections occurs. Harvey described the manner in

« Which the lethai material was to be introwuced into Castro's food,

C } involving an asset of Varora's vho had access to someone ina

restaurant frequented by Castro. We told Harvey that Edvanis had a
described precisely the sae plan. When ve asked Harvey hov Edvards
could have known of the mechanics if there had been no activity in the

operation for a year, and if Harvey was starting again from scratch,

esac Harvey replied that he took over a going operation--cne that vas
"-, 7 already "in trein.". Bivards dentes that this is so. O'Comell says

eseeat “that Harvey is the one vho is right. The operation was going on when

Harvey took it over, although O'Connell does not remenber when Varona
vas reactivated or vist had been dove vith hin in the neantize.

Along vith the change in Agency leadership of the operation, 7
vaich sav Harvey replacing Zévards/O'Connelt, there also were changes

icatescanectaracrat RS) mo fee

fair fpitdatbanstansanasasn fa esatonstaannsoasoon at eaijghapfatapensiTanpaomAsasaneataar eat aEAANY



sera

fn the original cast of hocdia pisyer3. Harvey opecified that

4
ee

Gtencaca vas not to be brought ia on whe re:ctivatioa of the oyersticn, :

one

end be telieves that Roselli honored the request. Roselli once = «+

repovted to Earvey that Glancara pad eszed if enytning was goizcg oa,
and’ vhen Roselli said chat nothing vas ceppening, Glancara said,
"Zoo bad." Additionally, Santos Trazftcente ("Jce, the courfer™ frca

the earlier phase) vas no longer involved. With the closing of the

last casino in Havaza in Septenter 1901, Trafficante presumably no
longer kad access. Roselli nov had a ran'knowm to Earvey as Maceo,

who also used the rames Garcla-Comez ard Godoy.

(Comment: Earvey is unable further to identify Maceo; be
descrites ‘him as "a Cuban who spoze Italian.” Oxe of Yaroza‘'s -

associates in the Cuban exile commity vas named Antonio MACZO :
Meckte, but 1t sens unlikely thet ke vas the Haceo of this i : 1
operation. He vas prouizent ecoxgh in the extle commmity to fee
have been known to Earvey. Further, it seems clear that Maceo

'
i
i.
f

vas “Roselli's wan." This secocd phase appears to lack the

overshelming, high-level gangster flavor that characterized the
first phase. Roselli remaized es a prominent figure in the
operation, but working directly with the Cutan extle comnity : _
and directly oa behalf. of CIA. Roselli ves essential to the

” second phase as a contact with Yarona, who presmmedly still

- 48 -
eeary WuE2 ONLY ‘i

. & rs ro



PER eres eDEIN 238 SEA ARATE LALLA VOR Bs neiettncenemnnenrr an women
i a i

believed ke was teing Supported by U.S. businessmen with

fireo-ial scazes i= Cuta. Roselli reeced Giancena end Traffisante

oo

in the first phase as a means of establishing contacts inside Cuba.
Fe did not reed them in the eecond phase, because he bad Varona.
Eovever, it would be refve to assuze that Bosellt did not take

the precaution cf informing higher-ups in the syndicate that he
was working in # territory cocsidered ta be the private domain

of someone else in the syndicate.)

"When the pills vere given to Varoza through Roselli, Varona

7 requested ams and equiyment needed for the support of his end of the

ma

- operation. Roselli passed the request to Esrvey. Harvey, vith the
help of Ted Shackley, the chief of the JKAAVZ Statica, procured
explosives, detonators, tventy .30 caliber rifles, tventy .45 caliber
hand guns, tvo radios, ani one boat radar. Harvey says that the.
“shopping list™ inchwted saze itens that could be obtained only from
‘the U.S. Goverment. Harvey onitted those tteas, because Roselli,

“2 posing as a represehtetive of private business interests, vould not
have had access to such equipsent. ‘The cost of the ams and equiment,
about $5,000, was T/A'd to heedqrarters. -

: Earvey and Shackley rented a U-Haul truck unter en assumed rene,
loaded 1t vith the ams and equimeat, ant paried {4 in the parking Lot

of « drive-in ‘restaurant. ‘he keys vere then given to Roselli for

-'g-

A UT 13,

z a a



delivery eit

= to Maceo, to Varona, o> to Varora's son~in-lew.
Evidently Earvey and Roselli bad not jet come cto trust each otter.

. Perhaps fearing a double-cross, each cet about independently to

? assure himself that the equipment reached the proper hands. After
. Faraing the truck, Harvey and Shsckley kept the parking lot. wider

surveillance until the pass vas completed. Poselit, accanyanied by

O'Connell, did the ‘same. Yeither pair knew that the other was

watching. Eventually the truck was picked up ené driven avay. It

was returned later, empty, and with the keys uncer the seat as
prearracged. Harvey returned it to the rental agency. Harvey says o

that Saackley never knew to vhan delivery was sade ror for vat)

(J

a)

Purpose. Shacvley was merely called upon to firntsh support for a
headquarters operation fro which he was othersvise excluded.

‘ May 1962

Rarvey end Roselli arranged a system of telephone communication

pay phone, could call Roselli et the Friars Club in Los Angeles at 1500
hours, Los Angeles time. . Roselli could phone Harvey at Harvey's have

fin the evening. Rosellt reported thet the pills vere in Cuba and at

the restaurant reportedly used regularly by Castro.

‘by which Harvey vas kept posted cn any develoments. Harvey, using a ics |
s _ : mare
i
i
|

-) RRtRneeta eee mene eremernnr none MTRN: EvAIRe NBs NEAR Pee



é

Je 1952

Reselii rejorted to Zarvey on 21 Jure that Veroza bad dispatched.
a team of three nen to Cuba. Just what they vere supposed to do is
pretty vague. Earvey said that they appeared to Lave no specific
plan for killing Castro. ‘They vere to recruit otters vio might be
used fc such a scheme. If an opportimity to kill Castro presented
itself, they or the persons they recruited were to make the atteapt-~.
perhaps using the pills. Earvey never learzed their names or anything

* else about then. Prom the sequence of the reports, it would see» that

the pills were sent in ahead of the three-man teex, but th’s is not now

ascertatnable. , :

"September 1962 :

Earvey sav Roselli in Miami on 7 and on 11 September. Varoza
was reported as then ready to send in another team of three men. They
vere supposedly militia pen viose assigment was to penetrate Castro's

body guard." During”this period the “medicine” was reported as still

4m place and the three men of the first team safe.

ber 1 - Jemary 1963

Although Harvey received several reports that the nilitia sen vere
poised to take off, presimably fron smevhere in the Floride keys,

Hate -5L-

"
Hi
cE
t



+

“Left this vord for Maceo is not clear.) .

a=
they did not actually eave. First, “conditions ineide" vere given

fas the reason for delay; then the Octoter nisstle crisis threw pleas
eucy. Harvey vas in Mtani tetween 22 Decenter and 6 January. He sav’
both Roselli ard Maceo several tines duricg that period. He made a
paynent of $2,700 to Roselli for passing +o Varoza for the expenses of” H
i

the three militia nen. Harvey aad Rosell! had telephone discussicrs

of the operation between 11 and 15 Jenuary. Harvey says that Rosellt

;
!
t

wasn't kidding himself. Ee agreed with Harvey that nothing was

happening and that there vas not much chance that anything would
happen in the future. As far as Eervey kcovs, che three militia
men never did leave for Cuta. Ee xnovs nothing of what may have

happened to the’ three reported to have been sent to Cuba.

February 1963 - : : i
Harvey was in Miam’ 11-14 February.’ He had no contacts with any
of the principals, but he left word for Maceo that there vas nothing

nev and that it nov looked as if it vere all over. (Just how Harvey wn

Harvey left Miami on 15 February to meet with Roselli in los
Angeles. ‘They agreed at the Los Angeles meeting that the operation
vould be closed off, but that it vould be unvise to attempt a preciyitate

break betveen Roselli ard Verona. Roselli agreed that he would continue



i
Fa
i
i
f.
k
{

to cee Veroza, gradually roducing the Crequency of contact until there

Earvey cays that he received tvo telephone calls fren Roselli
during this period. Harvey decided that Lt vould be best to have ope
last reeting vith Roselli before he left for his assigament in Roxe.
He states that he reported this decision to Mr. Helms who gave his

ayproval..
June 1

Roselli cane to Washington to meet with Harvey sanetime about the
middle of June. Harvey met him at Dulles airport. Harvey remembers
having suggested to Roselli that he bring only carry-on luggage so
there vould be no delay at the airport matting baggage. Harvey bad by

* " then closed his own home in preparation for leaving the country and

was living in the hquse of a neighbor vho was cut of tovn, Roselli
"stayed vith Harvey as a houseguest in the neighbor's hone. ‘That
evening Roselli, Harvey, and Mrs. Earvey vent out for dinner. While
dining, Harvey received a phone call frea Sem Papich vho wanted to ‘mov

Af Harvey knew the identity of his dinrer guest. Earvey said that ke did.

:
é



erry

PF setecmne nen «

ARCA ee eNO CNR ONE SLE FUNCT “ae,

It subsequently developed that the F2i had Roselli ender intensive
surveillance at the tine, acd Earvey speculaces thet he vas piczed uy

as he left the airport parking lot end vas ideatiMed through his auto aa

license mober. Earvey ret Pepich for breakfast the next morning aod
explained that he wes terninating an onerational essociation vith
Roselli. Papich reminded Earvey of the Fal rule requiring FRI personnel
to report any non coatacts betveen forser FI enployees and cristzal
elezents. Papich said that he would have to report to J. Edgar Hoover
that Harvey bad been seen with Roselli. Harvey said he understood
Paptch's situation and did sot object to such a report being rade. :
Harvey said that he asked Pepich to infom hin ia advance if it appeared

- that Eoover might call Me. MsCone--Harvey's point being that be felt .
that NeCone should be brieved before receiving s call frou Hoover.

Papich agreed to do so. Earvey said that ke then told Mr. Eelus of : :
the incident and that Helms agreed that there vas no need to brief
HcCone imless a call fra: Hoover vas to be expected.

+ |; Teis vas Harvey's lest face-to-face meeting with Roselli,

“althougs he has heard from héw since then. ‘he later Links betwen

Harvey end Roselli are described in a separate section of this report.
he List of persons visting of the second phase of the operation

differs from those vio knew of the first phase. Those ve have identified

3
i

cee



(SRR

1. Richard Zelcs, Deputy Director fo> Pless*

2. Willies Harvey, Cater, isk Force Ww

3. .Jenes O'Connell, Oftice of Security (He kmove that Harvey”
took over the operation aad delivered pills, ams, and
equiprent in April 1962, He does not know of develoments
after May 1962.)

en

‘ : : 7 H

4k. Sheffield Edvards, Director of Security (He lmovs of the fact i

of the turnover to Harvey, wut states be kmovs nothing of |

- develoments thereazter.} |

5. J.C. King, Chief, WH Division (Be scated in our interview
With him that he kmev that Harvey vas having meetings vith
4 menbers of the gambling syndicate in 1962.)

6. Bruce Cheever, Farrey's deputy in 1562 (Cheever Lrovs that
i Harvey a meeting with gangsters in Beno (sic) in the vinter
f of 1952.

‘Ted Shackley, Chief, JMMAVE (He assisted Harvey in the

delivery of aras and equifrent to Varcza tn April 1962, i
but presumably did not know the identities of the recipients

nor the purpose for vhich the material was to be used.)*

Rey Treichler, T5D (Treichler's participation vas Mnited
to furnishing the pills to O'Connell on 18 April 1962.)

‘Antonio Varona, the Cuban exile leader (Be presunably vas
not avare of goverment sponsorship.) _- z

Varana's son-in-law (Be too was presumably vas not ewere of

the goverment's role.) ~

Maceo, Rosellj.‘s “nan” (Maceo probably kmew there vas a
goverment comection, but may not have identified CIA as
‘the egency.) if

We can only conjecture as to who else may Lave known at least that

|
" the operation vas coatinuing und perhaps soue of the detatls. San |

i
i

rire oyy



rN

Glencace wus supposedly cut ous of he second piace, but ve cannot
be sure that Rosellt Aid not keep biz informed. ‘the sane cay be said

id "Of Sentos Trafficante. Harvey 1s sure that Vabeu vas not involved in
Earvey's introduction to Rosellt, but O'Coane?l is equally positive
that Maheu participated. ‘The story that Drev Pearson ‘told the
President, and watch 1s ‘mova ia other Goverment circles, sounds

: .
Suspiciously like this cecond phase of the operation. If that is so,

” then it is likely that the Operation has leaked--perhaps through
these channels:

Roselli to Haheu

Mabeu to Edvard P. Morgan, Haheu's Washington lavyer
Morgan to Drew Pearson

Pearson to Chief Justice Warren and to the President
Warren to Rovley, chief of the Secret Service:

i Rowley to Pat Coyne and to the FEE a ;
ee

We have @ more detatiea treatment in a separate section of this report
of the chamels through which the story may have Fassed.



aenty

tapping Insideat

Tae 4h

a late 1961 - Early 1962 .

- Well after the Pre-Zay of Pigs phase of the geubling syndicate

operation to assassinate Castro, and caly indirectly related to it,

: that rade the FAI avare of th Agency's relationship vith the syndicate

, end required the briefing of the Attorney General on the details
i of the assassination plas.
ins Fhyllis McGuire, of the singing McGuire sisters, vas end is,

openly known to be Giancena's mistress. Giancana suspected her of

having an affeir with Dan Rovan, of the Rovan end Martin conedy tean.
Both Rovan and Miss McGuire were then entertaining in Las Vegas, and
Gfancana asked Maheu to put a bug in Rovan's room. Maheu aid not vant
to do the Job and declined on the grounds that he wesn't equirped for

that sort of vork. Giancaza made e claim for a return favor: he
had worked on the Castro assassination operation for Maheu, and

“‘Maneu vas indebted to his. Glancana said that if Yabeu wouldn't
take oa the job, he, Glancara, would go to Las Vegas and do it~ -
hinself. Makeu agreed to arrange to have the roca bugged. a :

(Comment: The exact date of this is uncertain. An August

1953 ites oa Giancaza in the Chicago Sun-Tines refers to the

incident, without mestion of wiretapping, and sets the year as

‘
i

a development in the private life of Sem Giancama led to an incident
- ST - |
|

i

'

ee en

I ERAS UN Net ear ee ut sa seg



SEL. There s nothing in Ageacy fles chav plapoints the date,

and the nenorfes of these ve inverview:d who mow of the incideat

are hazy. Edvards and O'Coarell did not leam of the incident

: until after it bad happened. Béwards can place it caly as being
after the Pay of Pigs. O'Conzell at “frst thought that it was :

eee : fo early 1962. When show the newspaper accoumt, O'Conzell said
that 1f the nevs story vas co=rect, it vould have had to have been

very late in 1961. An Office of Security semorandum to the DICT,

of 2b June 1966, states that it ves "ct the height of the project

negotietions.” This is confusing, rather than clarifying, because
} . . the operation vas supposedly at dead standstill in late 1961

fas
(

and very early 1962. Clearly the incident occurred before 7
February 1962, because it vas on that date that the Director of
Security told the FBT that CIA would object to prosecution.

i: ” Presumably the FaI's case vas already complete by then.)

Yoheu arranged to have Giancana's request handled by Eeverd L.

*, Du Bois, 2 private “investigator in Mie=t. Du Bots assigned tvo men
to the Job: Arthur J. Balletti and J. Ww. Harrison. i

: (Comment: The September 1965 classified telephone dtrectory,
an + for the Greater Miemi Area Lists Edvard L. Du Bots under
: “Detective Agencies." There is an advertisement on the a
for “Arthur J. Balletti Iavestigations" vaich lists as on: of

- 58 -

oer hat senemer nee

seb mht oe



SY

sete oe

a ee Haale et ok a

MOL ARENA tetera seme cee! twa

Ris spectalties the obtataing of photographte and electroate

evidence.)
O'Connell ncalls that, instead of planting a pleroghone in Rovan's ~
roar, the investigator ‘apped the telephone, which would not hive
revealed the sort of intizactes tha: Giancana expected to discover,
When Rovan left the rocm to do a show, Ballettt also left bis rece
to see the act, leaving his equimeat out in full sight and mmaing,
It was found by a maid, and the local sheriff's office was callea,
babar was arrested. Harrison vas not Picked up. Agency Personnel
have uo further inforzation about Farrison. The FBE identified bia
only as being "supplied ty Mabey.”
. " Ballettt first tried to telephone Du Bots for help but could
not reach him. He then called Maheu, in the Presence of the sherift's
officers. O'Connell says that Mabeu vas able to fix the matter vith
local Las Vegas authorities, perhaps with help from Roselli. Hovever,
“Rallettt's call to Mabeu caused the case to reach the FBI. The
Bureau @ecided to press for prosecution umier the viretepping statute.
"Wien Mabou wis approached by the Fa, he referred them to the oon 7
Director of Security, Sheffield Eavaris. : :

(Coment: Eavards-states that he hed told Maheu, who hea .
to work closely with the thugs, that if be got into a bind vith:
the FBI, he could tell the Bureau that he vas working on an

ae -9-

tehraiponelrert h)

vittro

t
i
|
i
i
{



tes ceent

letter of confirmtion of a 7 February meeting between an unened ° :

SERIE CALEY Amer mee me non en ne neat come eet

Ar ence IeRe RRR eu ash Meena MAN

AnteL.igeace operation being bandled by Eavards, Hakeu,

accoriing *o + Edvarte, told the Bureau thas be kad not perconally

done the wiretapping, ‘but that it grew ous of an operation be was Hei ean
working oa with Edvards. Meheu presumably did not mention the =e
ultizate objective of the “tatelligence operation" involving the’
ganbling symiicate, The Bureeu, fn a nencrandim trea J. pagar
Roover to the DCI, dated 23 varch 1942, stated that: “Vaheu claimed
that he btatetbaed Coversge of Rowan in tebalf of CIA's efforts to

obtain tateLligence inforzation in Cuba through the hoodtiss

i
:
t
'
f
i

elenent, including Sam Giancara, vhich ed interests thers. Maheu
said he was put in contact with Glancama tn conzec:ion with these :
intelligence activities through John Roselli, a Los Angeles a
hoodlum. Mabeu authorized wiring of Rovan's room and discusced
this matter vith John Bosell1.")

rep

The 23 March necorandus from the Bureau takes the form of a

vepresentative of the FHI and Skef Edvards, the nenorandum-quotes :
° : ‘
Edwards as having made the folloving points: Makeu was involved in a

Sensitive operation with the Agency; the Agency would object to any

3
Prosecution that would necessitate use of CIA personel or information; © foaaeat



[
oe
7

mee

acd introduction of evidence ccacernizg CEA cperations would eabarzass H
the Goverscent. This {3 also essentially as stated to us by Edvaris
+ in reviewing the incident during tke course of this investigation.

é - The 23 March menoracdus stated that the Criminal Division of the

eee
7 Department of Justice requested that CIA advise specifically if it

objected to initiation of crisinal prosecution egaiast Palletti,

Maheu, end Harzison. Cn 28 or 29 March, Edverds net with the Bureau

{
: H
+ \ liaison ofticer, San Papich, and told hin that any prosecution vould - i
endazger seasitive sources and nethods used in a duly authorized !

Project acd vould not be in tke national interest. Papich accepted
ee Edvards' oral statement as the reply requested aad said that ke would
i report to proper authorities in the Bureau. Edwards made a record

Of the meeting in a memorandim of § April 1952.

feetooovorneasetpacye

Edvards informed us during our inquiry that at the time of the
bugging incident and the flop that ensued those (Dulles and Bissell)

who had given the initial epproval of the Plan to asscassinste Cestro

- through the gambling syndicate vere gone. As no one else in authority
(including Mr. Helms) bad been cut in oa the operation, Edwards dealt

with Pepich without reference to anyone else in the Agency.

April 1952 .

In early April Pepich informed Eivards that Serbert J. Miller,

ie
i

i

t
be,
i
'
f

5



’

ARNEL FR Ieee tte

Love eee

F

80

van

2)

Assistant Attormey General 1a charge of the Crimiza: Division of tae
Department of Justice, wanted to discuss the case. Edwards thea
brought in Lawrence Houston, General Counsel, ond asked Houstoa to
call on Miller ard tell bis that the bugging inci#ent in Las Vegas

wus related to an intelligence operation ead that he Agency eid not ~
think 1t wise at that time to surface its connection with Roselli. :
Houston met vith Miller on 16 April aod told hin of the Agency's |
{nvolvevect, without revealing any details of the assacsization i
Operation. Houston's memorendim of the meeting, cated 26 April, quotes
Miller as saying that he foresay no sujor difficulty in stopping
Prosecution, but that he afght sention the probles to the Attomey
General, Houston's remorandim notes that Miller reised a question

arene

about the possibility of our iavolvenent in this particular case,
the las Vegas viretap, standing in the vay of prosecution of other
actions, particularly against Giancana.

Houston's 26 April perorandus states that on 20 April there vas a”
Fecond meeting with Justice—vith Miller's first assistant, Mr. Foley.
"At that meeting Houston told Yoley that the Agency's request not to:
Prosecute was limited to this Specific bugzing incident, was based on a
Security grounds, end that security considerations would not be a bar”

per utes

to Prosecution on other matters. As it was possible that the Attorney

General might be told about this and might then call the DCI, Houston eee


~

H
|

indication that General Carter vas further briefed on the full details
of the assassiration plist egainst Castro. {
. i
May 1962 ;
i: Spree i

. “briefed hin ell the yay.” Houston says that after the briefing

"with organized crine again--vith gangsters--you vill let the Attorney

briefed the DDCI, Gereral Carter, vho said bs underscood the situsion

end in due tine sigzt Grief tte Dizector, ¥: cCone. It is rot move

¥

vhether Geseral Cerver did or did not brief Y=. McCone. ‘There {s.no

qaseetengeaspeeeeesentaaeargst S3EPy

‘The Attorney General obviously was told of CIA's operational

involvenent vith gangster elesents, because he requested a briefing
oa the details. On 7 May 1962 Shefiield Edvarés and Lavrerce Houston
met vith Attorney Generel Pobert Kennedy ard, as Edvards puts it,

Kennedy “thought about the problen quite seriously." The Attorney
General said that he could see tne problem end that he could not pro:
against those involved {a the wiretapping case. Ee spoke quite

firnly, saying in effect, "I trust that if you ever try to do business

“General know before you do it.”

Houston quotes Edvards as replying that

this vas a reasonable request. Edwards Says that anong the points
covered vas that of Reseili's motivation. The Attorney General had

thougnt that Roselli vas doing the Job (the atteapt at assassination

of Castro) for money. Eivards corrected that inpression; he was not.


moar

ARR pat.

re

DD/P (Richard Helms). Ee felt that, since they had not been Privy to

Moustoa recalls that during the neeting tith the Attomey
General the latter ested for a memorandum recorit of the meeting.

Fdvards believes that ¢he request was made later and by telephone.

A renorandus vas Prepared and vas signed by Edvards. Both Edvards end
Houston recall heving bed a hand in writing it. trensafztal buck.

slip from Houston to Kennedy notes that the Tequest vas made on :
ii May, vhich suggests that Fauardn 1s correct in his bellet that the : ;
request vas made by telephone after the 7 May briefing of the Attomey
General. The memorandim is dated 14 May 1962. Tt was tyred tn tuo :
copies only, with the orizinal beizg sent to Attorney General Kenedy : j
end the other copy being retained by the DITeCtOr oF Security. It was : |
typed by Edvards' secretary, Sarch Hall. It does not state the P
“Purpose of the operation on vhich Kennedy vas briefed, but 1t does
wake it clear that the operation ws against Castro and its true
Purpose may be inferred from the mesorandum.
Févards states that the briefing of the Attamey General and

‘Re formuding of @ menomndim of record vas carried out without Seine
briefing the Director (John McCone), the DDCT (General Carter), or the

the operation vhen it vas er way, they should be protected froa
Anvolvement {n it after the fact. As noted previously, Houston had

briefed the DDCI on the fact that there was a matter involving the



PTE cee

Deparment of Justice, out Houston kad not given the DICE the spectyics.
Ee feels it would tave teen normal ‘or hin to Lave briefed the DCT:
in view of the Attorey Ceverel's interest, but ke dlco fecls quite HE eit
sure enat/eama have renenbdered dotag it and he cces not. He : |
suggested that Edvards! Celiverate avoidance oF such briefings pay :
tave led bin also to evold neking any briefings. Ze recalls no

disagreements with Zdvards on this point and concludes that he must

ave accepted Edvards' decision not to brief.

Houston ani Edvards briefed Robert Kenzedy on a CIA operation

_ entracing gangster elenents, vhich presumably was terminated following

the Bay oz’ Pigs fiasco. Kennedy stated his viev, reportedly quite ‘"

i
t
i

strongly, that,the Attorney General should be told in advance of any

future CIA intentions to work vith or through U.S. gangster elezents.
Fron reports of the briefing, £t 16 reasccable to assume that Kennedy
believed he bad such a camitzent froo Agency representatives.

In fact, hovever, at the time of the 7 May 1962 briefing of the

Attorney General on “Gambling Syndicate - Fhase Qze," Phase Tyo under
- Willfen Earvey vas already vell under vay. Earvey had been introduced

to Roselli on 8 April and Veroza or his men had received the lethal
_———<—<—<—————

pills, the arms, end related support equircent in late April.” The

Attomey General was not told that the gambling syndicate operation.

had elready been reactivated, nor, as far as ve know, vas ke ever told

oO

Cceebparas ze

Dee ere net Coes ett ee Sees



that CIA had a coaticutng involvesent with U.S. sacgster elesents.
‘ + When the Atcorzey General vas briefed o2 7 May, Eduaris knew

" that Hervey bad been introduced to Roselli. Ze cust also have inom

that his subordicate, Janes O'Connell, was in Yiant and roughly for
vhat purpose (although Edvards does not nov recall this). ‘the
gaxbling syndicate operation bad been taken Som him, and, in *

" retrospect, he probably acted properly in briefing the Attorney General
on only that aspect of the operation for which he hed been respozsible
and of atch he Sad direct, personal xnovledze.

Earvey states tkat on 14 May he briefed Mr. Helms on the neeting

pccesstler Wen peer

vith the Attorney General, as told to him by Eévards. Earvey, too,

advised egatnst’ briefing Mr. McCone and General Carter and states :

that Helms concurred in this. On that same date, 14 May, Edvards
prepared a menorandum for the record stating that on that day Harvey
hed told his tant any plans for fvture use of Roselli vere dropped.
Edvards' memorandus ‘states ‘that he “cautioned him (Harvey) that ©

f,
i
(Bavards) felt that eng future projects of this nature should have | the
| “tact approval Of the Director of Central Intelligence." Edvards
: informed us that he has no specific recollectioa of having told
Harvey of Kemedy's warning that the Attomey General should be told

din advance of any future CIA use of gangsters.

2 mace lan ten tine ie alinaf rink 1


oo

Although the Attorney General on 7 Yay 1952 vas givea a full and

frask account of the Agency's relations with Maheu, Roselli, and
Giencana in the Castro operation, including the wiretapping flap,

it eppears that the FBI was not given anything like the sauce detail.
Tae Bureau quite properly was not wold ebout the assassication

operation, and it seems that it also was not told how the private
N

Life of Glancana came to involve the Agency in the Ias Vegas wire-
tapping incident. Edvards states that to have briefed the Bureau on
the assassinatioa operation vould have put it im an impossible bind,
since both Roselli and Gisncana were high on the Bureau's “list.”

qhe briefing of Attorney General Kensedy was absolutely restricted
to hin, aad we can only speculate that the confidence vas observed.

(Comment: Senator Robert Kennedy's secretary, who vgs
his secretary when he vas Attoraey General, phoned the

Director's office on 4 March 1967 and asked for a copy of the
LL

“",  Bévands' memorandim on the 7 May 1962 meeting vith Kennedy vhen

he was Attorney General, at which time he was briefed on the |

Castro assassination operation. Kennedy krew of the Drew Pearson
ee nnreeeaaneennnnrnerwenanees,

* article of 7 Marca 1957 and vented to check Ms recollection of
eee eee
vont he had been told by Edvards and Houston oa 7 May 1962. The

een Te aT ener renee anaes eee eee Sr
Attorney General's copy of the rezorandun for the record of that

briefing is in the archives of the Attorney General's office.

_ Mr. Helms subsequently bad lunch with Senator Kennedy. Ee tooka


i

fant
(

” that Giancena never did any spying at all for the CIA. He merely

a:

4
3
4

copy of the ne=orazaus vith hin and alloved Kennedy to read it.

Be di2 not leave a cozy vith Kennedy.) ae snsterd

If the inforzation given the Bureau is as limited as the records _

end our information indicate, then the Bureau has not been informed,

as the Attomey General vas, that the Agency vas first uowitting ond i

thea a reluctant accessory after the fact. It vould be surprising,

though, if the Bureau does not nov know the whole story of the as

!
'
i

Vegas bugging incident. Whether the Bureau may now think that CIA was
less than candid about the bugging incident (ae distinguished fron the

sensitive assassination operation) is a question for speculation.

st_ 1 s = i

What is available to the press is undoubtedly available to the . |
i |

” Bureau. In fact, some indication of the extent of the Bureau's

Imowledge 1s found in a feature story in the Chicago Sun-Tizes of
16 August 1963, with a Washington date Line, under the banner lead:

| * -"GIA SOUGHT GIARCANA HELP FOR CUBA SPYING" Sain

"the article cites "Justice Department sourced’ as expressing the belief

pretended to go along with the CIA:

“in the hope that the Justice Departnent's drive to put hin
behind bars mignt be slowed - or at least affected - by his
Tuse of co-operation with enother goverment agency."

‘The story places the period of the relationship from 1959 to:

-O-


“cose tire in 1960, long tefore the edortiv: revel
daw sion at the Bay of Pigs ta April, 1951."

‘Te reuspayer then gives the folloviag version of the bugging incident:

“An equally bizarre episode months later gave the
Justice Department its first clue to Glancana's
negotiations with the CIA. ::

“The figures in this incident were a male night-
club entertainer and Ciancaza's girl frterd,
Phylifs McGuire, one of the singing McGuire
Sisters.

i
!
i
'

"At the time, in Giancena's opinion, the entertainer
was overly attentive to Miss McGuire.

“At Ias Vegas, Nev., in 1961, sheriff's police
seized a provier in the entertaizer's hotel suite.
—m For hours, the intruder refused to identify hinself

¢ iz or say he was rifling the entertainer's roams.

"Persistent questioning by sheriff's deputies, steusiaatit]
. according to federal authorities, led to an 7 oH
- adwission by the provier that ke vas on the

i f " payroll of a private detective agency in Florida.

"Florida authorities sought an explanation of the
+ dneldent from the operator of the detective agency.
pecrieees At first, the operutor refused to discuss the

eee matter. Firally, hovever, he told investigators
to get in touch with the CIA. a

Je “The inquiry then shifted frou Florida to Washington
and revealed Giancara's negotiations with CIA, i
it was dtsclosed. : : : 7

: "Government sources reported Thursday that the :
oa si private investigator's mission in the Las Vegas #
fe suite of the entertainer wes another riddle of the _ my, +t
si Giencana caper with the CIA. Kefther CIA nor the i |
Florida detective Agency ever has o°fered an
exploration of shat the investigator was doing in i: 4
: . ert se

the Hotel suite, the sources said.”

ys

AM Ateteraarenaneme men seem naes mene me rae: itwinan maaan Stoo ome

tL Sea



Four days later, c2 20 August 1953, the chicago Daily News
reported further cn the subject under the following headline:
‘ : "qd TRUTH ABOU? CCGA NOSTRA CEIZY AND THE CIA” oT ew hencae hates

he story cited an incident in vbich Giancara Miterally t=ped into

an Fal agent vno vas tailing his. Glancana ~as reported to have said,

don't you fellows leave ce alone? I'm one of you!” Giancara
you

ie represented in the revspaper account as having been approached by--

but not a3 having nade any arrangenents with--CIA. The story also

i mentions the Lac Vegas incident, but in terms of saneone, possibly
+ CEA, ransdcking a roan occupied by one of Giescana's hencasen vio t

_ bad just returned from Cuba. . Feit |

Oa 16 August 1963 the DD/P (Helms) sent » memorandum to the !

DCL (ucCone) forwarding a copy of the 14 Hay 1962 memorandum for the
“record sent to Attorney General Kennedy folloving the 7 May 1962 |
Wriefing of Kemedy oa the ganbling syndicate operation - phsse one. |
The coincidence of dates strongly suggests that the Director's

interest resulted from the Chicago nevspaper story of 16 August, i

teat

"ga his trensalttel nenorandum to the DCI, Mr. Helms wrote that:

™ . . . vas veguely avare of the existence of such
@ wemorandim /the memoranda for the record of the 7 May-1952 4
brieficg of Hovert Keanedy/ since I vas informed that it had :
een urittea as a result cf a briefizg given by Colonel q
Edwards and Lawrence Houston to the Attorney General in
May of last year. . . ~~. - I assuze you ere avare of the
nature of the operation discussed in the attachment.”

eee
SIRT TE Se Sia

wenn gn hat nee tee we



H

. between CIA and Giancana.

" Teds is the earliest date cn uhtch ve have evidence of Er. MzCone's
being evare of any aspect of the scheme to assassinate Castro using
Benders of the gambling syndicate. :

Drew Pearson bas access to these newsparer stories, and they
are available to any munter of sources vho night visa to collect
such information. The rumors of CIA's alliance vith gargsters are
not new; viat is new is that the m=ors now connect CIA and the
Gangsters in @ plot to assassinate Castro. It may be assimed that
the Attorney Gereral (Ciars) xnovs that the nsors of the relation-

ship, as such, are true because of the recoras of the FBI on the Les

Vegas wiretapping incident. As of this writing, he does not
necessarily inav more--subject to vat he nay have learned as a
Tesult of the FBI interview of Edvard P. Morgaa, Maheu's Washington
attorney. A clue as to how much the Attorney General nay imov fe ‘

found in his statement that Maheu {s the closest thing to a link



May - July 1955

dhe Comittee

The Agency's previous interventions oa Haheu's bezalr are
Tevieved here, because of the tncreas!=ziy ‘sportan: role of Maheu
in the scenario. ‘he last of these interventions occurred duving
the period May - June 1956. At that tine a Senete Comittee beaded
by Senator Long of Missouri was investigating invastoas of privacy

“and planned to call Makeu to testify. ve learned indirectly of the

Committee's intention to call hin, A man vho vas employed by Maheu
in 1954-55 vas inforzed that be vould be called to testify about his
activities during that period. He vas an employee of AID in 1966.
‘The Internal Security Division of the Departuent of Justice learned
that he was to be called as a vituess and informed CIA's General

Counsel. ~

Ta the 1954-55 time perfod Maheu ves hized by the Greek shipping .
+ magnate, Hiarchos, fo help in a financial tussie Kiarchos ves having” i

with another Greek shipping fimme, Cassis, who had managed to
negotiate a pact with King Saud under vhich Onassis would control

90% of all Saud! Arabian of) shipeents. British, Anerican, and German
shipping interests opposed Ocassis' near monopoly, and the US and UK
Soverments supported Ttarchos in his fizht to Lave the agreesent

so eetnpie tempts amp



an
é

owe

+ Seas atet

| mabneonanneacereeeenenrtin Bene ett REN Lees ama

cancelled. Yaheu is believed to Lave worked at top levels in doth
the British and Azericen govermen:s, reportedty oteting at least onze

with Vice President Nixon. Mabeu's operaticns vere “tenanced by =

Tiiarchos, but CIA becaze involved ‘a supporting them ‘by request of

the Departent of State. Agency ccamunications and pouch facilites °

" vere rade available to Maheu, acd he vas given help ic developing

4 black propaganda campaign ageinst Ccassis. ‘Miarchos, vith Meheu's
help, won his crap vith Onassis.

+ A variety of litigation arose fran the contest. In one lav sult
for libel before the New Yors Supreme Court in early 1956 (Onassis vs.
Catapodis), Miarchos was examined by attomeys for Catapodis. Yhen *
questions were’asked about certain affidavits in issue (which hed been i
Passed through the CIA pouch systen), Miarchos, as a wituess, vas
advised by his attorneys not to testify on the grounds of Coversnent
Privilege. CIA inevitably becase involved. ‘The General Counsel
Prepared a statenent for the U.S. District Attorney in Kew York.

(to te retained by the ofc office there) stating the Agency's interest.
Asa consequence, ca was icentitied as being 2 party to the Hlarchos/
Onassis squabble. Although that vas in 1956, the Agency's inter-
vention is presumably still a'natter of recozd. nt

Tee Long Comittee planned to resurrect the old Chassis/tarchos
Fight, because it bad involved aa fevasioa of privacy. Apparencly

dee

Peace enerseeneeeeseeee ang egreeneessoneerereaora



one of the things Mateu did was to Lire scceczs to mma tecantce?

surveillance on Caassis' offices, and this tecare knowa. Yakeu's

: nore recent involvesent tn the Las Vegas wiretapping incitent also
Seened certain to zeceive extensive attention by the Lorg Comittee.

: The Long Comittee presimably vould have been (ateresced oaly in
Maheu's connection with the wiretappings thet crew ou of the Caassis/
Niarchos affair and the ganbling syndicate operation against Castro.
The Agency decided that it vould not be in its interest to allew

|
|

Mabeu hed testify on the bugging incidents because of the risk that

his teatinony could not te confined Just to wiretapping. furtker,

Mabe has been used over the years in a roster of sensitive CIA

operations. ‘There vas a risk that a genere) inquiry might open up 7 |

other sensitive fesues. A mmber of neetirgs vere held vith

Edvard P. Morgan, Maheu's Washington attorney, and vith a close legal

associate of Serator Loog, a St. Louis attorney named Morris Shenker.

Finally, in direct meetings vith Senator Long, our General Counsel i]

vas able to have Maheu excused from testifying before the long -  - :
While negotiations were under vay to have Maheu excused froa

“testifying, Maheu becane quite alarmed over the risk of adverse Pblicity,
- which might jeopardize bis business with very important cMlents. Ee vas

especially worried over his Howard Hughes accomt. He arplied pressure

.1B-)



oa tke Agency in 9 variecy of vuys--suggesting that pubite!ty etghs
expose Mis past censitive work for CIA. Hekeu's teckgruund ead past
assuciutioas vith CIA ere the subject of another section of this

report.

James O'Connell states that at one point in the negotiations with

the Long Camities Meheu tndfcated that he might brief his atz: BEY)

Eévard P. Morgan, fully about his past activities so that Morgan would
be able to decide hov best to represent hin. Whether he dia or not,
and, if so, vhaz he told hin, is not mown. We have a discusston of
the possible ioplications of this ina later sectica of this report.
8, Mabe nay very well have told Morgea tee details of
the plan to assassinate Castro using menbers of the ganbling
syndicate, and i

>. Mabeu has nov, on three separate occasions, seen CIA

intervene in officis] proceedings--once for Hiarchos and twice

% oof

for Maheu. : .

MONE a IRE So cere”



At about the tise of the Donovan-Castro negotiations for the

release of the Pay of Pigs prisoners a plan was devised to bave
Donovan present 2 contaminated skin étving suit to Castro as a gifs.
Castro vas knom to be a skin diving eathustast. We caniot put a

Precise cate cn this scheme. Desmond FitzGerald told us of it as if

it had originated after he took over the Cuba tas force in January
1963. Samuel Balzer said that £¢ began under William Harvey and :
thst he, Balpern, briefed FitzGerald on {t. Harvey states positively
ra a that he never heard of it.

: According to Staney Gottlieb, this schene progressed to the :
" potnt of actually buying a diving sult and readying it for delivery.
The technique involved dusting the inside of the suit vith a fungus
that vould produce a disabling and chronic sin disease (Madura foot)
: and contaminating the breathing apperatus with tubercle batted

: Cottiied does not yenenber vhat cane of the schene or int happened

to the scuba suit. ae Baer ae ae an onl toe achenes at first
said the plan vas dropped because it vas obvicusly impracticable.
. He later recalled that the plan was ebandoned because it was overtaken

eerie memset: peeminn Parsons: nti tante Recemnte mggreetine mae:

fi nano csemretapaaNy ton

by events: Donovan had elresdy given Castro a skin diving sult on his
ss own initiative. ‘he scheze ray have been rentiozed to Mike Miskovsky,
“who vorked with Donova, but FitzGerald has no recollection that it was.

-15 - Se,



i €
i
i
$1
Fes Halpem cays that he menticc:d the plan to George Mevanus, thea
: fe cpectal asoictant to the DD/P (jelms). McMacus later told Ealpera
t that he bad mentioned the scheme to Mr. Helms. ‘Those vho vere involved
: 4n the plot or vho vere identified to us by the participants as being
witting are the following: i i
i
: Richard Helms i
b. ‘ !
t
i William Harvey (denies any knovledge) i

Desnond FitzGerald
Semel Eelpern
George McManus
. i Sidney Gottlieb . |
cieras Ray Treichler cies

SATII ME SEI Tae

Ne aR aa



“ATICI

Files vere furaished Zor review dy ¢
the Deputy D1:
Counsel, the

?
vision, s=3 dy Col. J. C. Xing, former
Blegraphic files and intelligence pudlications
by the Director of Cenzral Reference. }f> vas not rade
wittirg of the reason for our fateres: im thea, and those vao
assendled thes for hin vere not told for whom they vere {atended.

We called back four officers or fatervievs: Richard Bissell,
a Sheffield Edvards frou retireneat, Willian Earvey frea sick leave,
ana festor Suackez trea his post 4: cezaceee) Othervise, our interrievs
were confized to officers assigned % the headquarters installations.
We opened each interview by referring to the Drew Tearson coliam of
7 March 1957, citing thet as the reason for our interest in learatss
a + Of plots to assassinate Castro. We told those incervieved that ve -
: were on a fact-finding nics‘on on tebalf of the Director, and that
this vas not the usual sort of Inspector General investigation. We
: asked each to raze aay others who vere lizely to have knowledge of
i ae such plots. We cautioned eaca aot to discuss the subject of the
: interview with aayone elze--evea others whoa we aight Lnterviov.
This is a cooplete Uist of those interviewed:

: Dessond FitzGerald a
Senuel Halpern
pt : : [gsuce.cheever ] oo
aes J. C. King :
Alfonso Rodriguez
J. D. EsterLize
Edvard Guna
Eovard Osbora E
Jazes O'Conzel1
: Sidney Gotthied : F
seeetiicsstnit - Sheffield Edvards :
: : Richard Bissell mo
i 7 Lavreace Houston
pana Bey Telfer]. :
: Joan Warze : . : :
: Restor Sanchez 7
Willian Barvey

7 Cozelius Roosevelt
Gina Pec Robert Bantermmaa :
eee : [=== Bortuer }} 7 ’

chard Over



Sone tine f2 1953,

date uncertain but p: ‘ably carly in the
year, Desmond FitzGerald, then Chier,
doiag avay with Castro by reans of an

Tue idea was to take

SAS, orictnated a Scheze for

explosives-rigged Sea shell,

a3 unusually spectacular sea ‘shell that woulda
be certata to catch Castro's eye, load it vith an explosive triggered

to Dlow vhea the stell was lifted, ana submerge it

in an area vbere
Cestro often vent skin diving.

Des bougat two books on Caribbean Mollusca,

‘The scheme vas soon,
fourd to be impracticable.

None of the shells that might conceivably
be found ta the Caribbean area was both Spectacular ezough to be sure
of attracticg attention and large enough to hold the needed volime
Of explosive. The midget

an Operation.

FitzGerald states that he, Sam Halpern,
Several sessions at which they explorea
one else was ever brought in on the talus. Halper believes that he

had Conversations with Tsp On feasibility aad using a hypothetical

case, may have spoken, We are
table to identify any others who imev of the Schene at

was beirg coasidered.

and Bruce Cheever had
this possibility, but that no

Ee does not retenber vith whoa ke

the time it

site ee bp

te

pene

oa


ener Y

7 Project AMUASZ - Polenta Cutele

1961

Jack Stewart, an officer taen assigned to the Mexico City
Station, met 1a Mexico City with Rolando Cubela to sound out Cubela
on bis views on the Cuban situation. Cubela bad been attending the
leftist-sponsored Letin Anerican Conference aa Xatiocal Sovereignty,
Brancipation and Feace held in Mexico City frou 5 to 8 March.

Cubela vas noncienittal. ‘The reeting was arranged by Carlos
Tepedino (AMMHIP-1), a long-tine friend of Cubela. Cubela knew
Stevart casually from Havana vhere Stevart was once assigned and vhere
& similar meeting bad once teen set up bit naa fallen through.
(Comment: Rolando CURELA Secades was the second-ranking
Jeader of the Directorio Revoluciouario (DR) 13 de Marso, vhich
was an elite group of lefttst. student activists founded tn 1956
to organize violence to overthrow the Batista regise. Cubela *<
was Telfeved to have been one of the participants in the
” assassination in 1956 of Lt. Col. Antonto BLico Rico, then
‘the head of Batista's military intelligence service. The DR
meabers considered thenselves quite apart from the idelfsta
26th of July Movement, despite the fact thet they had reluctantly
signed a untty pact. In the final days of the revolution the DR
took the Presidential Palace, which they refused to surrender

Co) 2



)

to Che Guevara but eventually (end re. lestantly) turned over to

Fidel Cectro. Cuvela vas e cajor in the Cuban emy, the highest
(Cuban ntlitery rank.

(A CS Information Report with e date or information of

+ March 1959 reported that: "Prior to his appointzent to the

Post of Cuban Milttary Attache to Spein ard his subsequent

éeparture for Madrid on 27 March 1959, Rolando Cubela frankly

expressed to Prine Mintster Fidel Castro his dfesatistaction

over the present situation in Cuba. Cubela . . . privately

told intizates that he was so disgusted with Castro that if he,

Cubela, aid not get cat of the country scon, he vould mu

Castro Himself.”

+ (Although the March 1961 meeting betveen Stevart and Cubela
in Mexteo City vas inconslusive, it led to other meetings out of
which grew Project AMLASH. Cubela (AMLASH-1) repeatedly insisted
that the escuntial fiat step ta overthroving the regize vas the
elinination of Cestro himself, Mbich Cubela claimed he vas

* prepared to accomplish. He repeatedly requested that ve furnteh

him the special equipment or zaterial Deeded to do the Job. Those
tmediately concerned vith the running of the operation poy
recall it as one in vhich the Agency was interested prizarily in
Keeping Cutela active in the MAAPROW progren directed against



ne ES eevee en

Cuben pilitary leaders, vnile resiscing 243 pleas for technical
assistance in an ascass’ ition atvexpt. he voluminous project
files and the inforsation furnt shed us by ilestor Sanchez,
Cubela's case officer, do not ~holly support those recollections.
The Agency offered both direct and indirect suvport for Cubela's :

plottings.)

28 March 1951

An asset of the Miami Statioa reported that Rolando Cubela and
Juan Orta vanted to defect and needed help in escaping. (Juan Orta
vas the gangsters' “man inside Cuba" vith access to Castro in the
lethal pill operation we have called Gambling Syndicate - Phase Oce.)
Headquarters expressed interest in exfiltrating Orta and Cubela.

The exfiltration attempt vas called ofFas a result of a report that
the Cuban police vere cvare of Cubels's desire to defect and of his
departure plans.

cine (Coment:. This 1 one of three nane-Links ve found in the

AMLASH file between Rolando Cudeia and perscns involved in the
ganbling syndicate episodes. Tee other tvo links are ever nore
nebulous than this. If Cubele was in fact one of the gangsters‘
assets inside Cuta, that fact wes ukcom to either the CIA

officers running the gangster episodes or to those hendling Cubela.)

Ft SA here a erent aoa rae ee te ere cee tae me wedepeeeece Pee

|

wale



Us august 196i

Curlos Tepedino reported that Rolando Cubela ves planaing

to attend the French Hational Student, Unton Culture! Festival i

jater fn the month. Cubela sent a ressage to Tepedino saying that
he vanted to talk vith a “friend of Stewert's™ in Paris 1f possible.

‘The vessage presumably vas passed through Cutela‘'s Girl friend,
an sirline stewardess. ‘he Paris Station was @iven approval to

t

approach Cubela, but there is no icdtvstion in the file that he

was actually contacted. ef

15 June 1

The JGUAVE Station cabled that a station asset (ascoxczRT-1)
was told by Lute ECHEVARRIA Bianct that Cubela had left Cuta for
Helsinkt on 10 Jume 1962. He vas traveling on a Czech airline,
by vay of Prague, to Helsinkt vhere be planned to attend the Vorla
2, Youth Festival. Iucta's mother and father bad arrived to Miaxt

“on 9 Jume and hed been seen off at the ajfort by Cubela vhen they

left Cuba. Lucia's mother told Lucia that Cubela wanted to defect
end to enter the U.S. Cubela said that on his retum from Eelsinkt
he vould pass through Faris where he Zoped to meet his old frtend,

Wa Ree SSDS Tne rier tee eat yet iene merece een tue es


ae : Toe FBI forvarted to CIA a report of a meeting vith an FRE
informant {a Miami on 11 Juse. ‘Ths inforsant .:ported that Cubela
was attending the Youth Festival in Helsinki in July-Argust 1962
and wanted to defect. In a detailed traasaittal memorandin, the
Fal identified its informant as Carlos Tepedino, ween the FBI imev to |
De a long-tine contact of CLA. ‘Tepedino offered his services to the :

: “FBI to assict ir the defection of Cutela. He told the Bureau of :

* Stevart's peeting with Cutela in Mexico City im March 1961. ‘The

Bureau stated in its menorandim to us that it had told fepedino

that his offer ‘vould be forvarded to the proper U.S. agency. ‘the :

to refer Tepedino to CIA if Tepedino should contact the Paris Legal

Bureau also stated that it vas inforsing its Paris representative :
Attache. eo. of |
i

The JKMAVE Station reported the substance of a telephone : i
$
t

conversation betveen Tepedino and a station officer, vaich was
arranged ty AMCONCERT-1. Tepedino identified the origiza? source
of his inforzation oa Cutela's desire to defect as being the Echavarrias, ba

froa whoo the JMWAVE Station had received its report. Tepedino said

he had: apprcached the Fal in Miexi because of dissatisfaction with the

-8-


£

way CLA kad kacdled Cutela's “planced defection” ia Paris in August
1951, Tepedino egreed to ceet with e CIA officer and contact Bers

arrengerents vere rade.
23 and 1h July 1962 : :

WiLifaa Wainwright, from headquarters, met vith Tepedino. in
Nev York City on 13 end 1 July 1962. ‘Tepedino agreed to meet
Wainvright in Helsinit, and to travel anyvhere else necessary, to aid

in an attempt to defect Cubela. Tepedino, vho is a successful i
Cuban exile jeveller in Kev York City, refused an offer to pay his : i
full expenses. He did accept reimbursezent for airline tickets and |

hotel expenses. He was not offered a calary or bonus. -

Jul Ga ' é ot
7

Tepedino arrived in Eelsinki on 30 July. Watavetght vas alseady
there. aetna caedeer ceeded eal teal certo etre
_ hin vas hela on 1 August. The original objective of detecting Cibola
"was quickly changed to one of recruiting him in place. These are

excerpts fron Waimrright's contact report of the first meeting vith

Cubela: :

He saié he was considering not going back to Cuba, but after
talking to Tepedino, he felt thst if he could do sczething

really significant for the creation of a new Cuta, te—ee; i
he vas interested in returning to carry on the fight there. ca

- 83 -



Be caid he vas not Interested 1a risking his life for any srall
undertaking, but that iz he could be given # really large part
*9 play, he would use ainself sai several ozhers in Cuba vaca
be could rely upon.

eee Ee said ke had plans to blow up an oil refinery, as te felt that
' the continuing existence of a senblance of normal functioning in
: Cuba depended upon a continuing supply oF petroleum, supplies of
: which, as ve knov, are ata critical stays today.

He also wanted to plsn the execution of Carlos Rodriguez (a top- :
ranking Castro subordinate) and the Soviet Ambassador, and also :
to eliminate Fidel, by execution if necessary. i

While ve vere making no committments or plans, ve pointed out to
Cubela thet schenes like he eavisioned certainly had their place,
but that a lot of coordination, planning, {aforeatioa-collection,
etc., vere recessary prerequisites to ensure the value and H
saa success of such plans, nua]

" Cubela stated many tines during the course of this and subsequent. 7
G meetings that he vas only interested in involving hinself in a : {
!

Plan of significant action, aad watch was truly desigzed to -
achieve rapidly his desire to help Cuba. .

iertsigstesiet -~9 int at sd . i i |
cee Because of the security hazard in too frequent meetings in ii |
. Helsinki ,where Cubela vas surrounded by his associates in the Cuban

“WS delegation, it vas agreed that further neetings vould be held in -” a

.

- > |, Stockholm and in Copenhagen. Cubela agreed to net with a Spantsh-

speaking case officer in Paris later in the month. Hothirg significent
came out of the meetings in Stockhols, 7 - 9 August, except Cubela's

Fevelation that he hed tola four of his Cuban essoctates of his meetings
. fin Eelsinkt vith Tepedting.

Le eranttnmey em mnat esetmmesiemertentetaneemionar ere

ar ae ne eee

Ste eR erga ees ee Abhetenia Une oy bate fete eee adie +



Walmsright, Teyedino, ard Cubeia mec in Copentegen for furthers
meetings. Walsuright wrote in his contect report:
j ; * + + yght one tine hea we /ininuright alvaya urote of hinselr
as ‘ve'] were discussiag the various aspects of Cubela's future
: role in Cuba, ve used the term ‘assassirste.' The use of this
tern, we later learned froa Tepedino ant fro Cubela hizself,
wes cost objectionable to che letter, end ke tas visibly upset. -

It was not the act he objected to, but rather merely the choice
or the word used to deserite it. “Elicinate vas acceptable!"

Patna (Coment: It is worth noting here that Tepedino, a Cuban
; aces Jeweller in Yew York, ves przecnt at a series of meetings at
Which the assassination of Castro vas discussed between Cubela
and Waimeright, vhom Tepedino knew to be a CIA officer.)

| 2h = 23 August 1962

: Cubela, Tepedino, and Wainvright net in Paris acd vere joined
by Farle Williemson, a Spanish-speaking case officer from Madrid.
Cubela vas given S/¥ training and vas issued appropriate S/W supplies.
He vas taken to the south of France on 20 August for a dexolition
Gemonstration. Willtamson plamed to polygraph Cubela and asked
for a polygraph operator to be Sent to Paris. Cubela inttgmanti>

* -itused to be polygeaphed. Willierson cabled on 17 August: :
“Have no intention give Cubela physical elimization mission

a6 requirement but recogaize this Sowething ke could or
might try to carzy out on bis ova initiative.” 7

Headquarters replied by cable on 18 August:

29 August 1952
7 Cubela left Prague by afr for Hevena.
= 85 -

20 ay

web A eat

” "Strongly concur that no Fysical elufaoation missions be given Cubela.”

|

i



at een

5 _- 3 Septester 1963

ae wtb rnin
peenmacey

t i: i: Cubela attended the Collegie:e Canes in Porto Alegre, Brazil,

as @ representative of the Cuban goverment. Ee was ret there by
Wainwright and Tepedino. Also participating was Kester Senchez, a
Spacitsh-speaking case officer fron headquarzers, who thereafter acted

‘
@s case officer for Cubela.

Cubela claimed that he had written tuo S/s messages. (Only one
7 had been received.) He said he was reluctant to use S/# because
: be feared the effirtency of the Cuban postal censorship.

Cubela discussed a group of Cutan military officers known to

panssste capennoety

him, ard possible weys of approaching then. ‘he probles vas, he
explained, that although many of thea vere anti-Communist, they vere
” either loyal to Fidel or vere so afraid of hi= thet they vere :
* reluctant to discuss any conspiracies for fear they might be
Frovocations. Cubela said that he thought highly of Bason GUIN Diaz
ou (asermuRK-10) who vas hiding Miguel DIAZ Isalgue (warce-24). Diaz
“" had been seat to Cuba by CIA to’ recruft Guin in place, and had done £0.
_ Cubela said he planned to use Guin but was concerred about Guin's
“nervous condition” and the fact that ke drank heavily. Cubela vas
told to assist Guin in Guin's intelligence assignzents, but not to
help Guin leave Cuba--as Cubela proposed.



2k Septeeder 1653
Froa Porto Alegre, Cubela flev ‘to Paris, arriving oa ik Segezaber.

'

He vas there osten:ibly to attend the Allionce Fiazeaise, but actually

to take an extended vacation--of which he planned to infors Fidel bectieeer cee iemecatce 3
: : : |

after the fact. - =

16 Seotenber 1953 :
Cubela (in Paris) wrote to Tepedino (ia Kew York): "I don't
intend to see (be-interviewed by) your friend again,” which you is

should tell them, "so they don't mate the trip. I vant to get aay

fros politics completely... .." =

3 October 1963 +
Nestor Sanchez arrived in Paris for meetings vith Cubela. (The ‘ |

record does not reveal why Sanchez vent to Paris in the face of Cubela's =

- stated wish not to see him. ‘he letter my have been written during |
@ spell of texporary depression. Station officers were already in
coutact with Cubela when Sanchez arrived.) Also participating in the |
neetings vere John (Rea) Stent and Richard Long. At the tine of these :

_ meetings it ws escovered that the French vere wnilaterally keeping

Cutela under surveillance. CIA inforzed the French that our contacts

with Cubela were for the purpose of defecting hin.

ii October 1: 7

Sanchez cabled that Cubela was insistent upon meeting vith a See

sentor U.S. official, preferably Robert F. Kenzedy, for assurances

rem ectt A sen tee ech on



OTF Patan. cece cee meee semen ee cay eer

: of U.S. moral support for eny extivity Cubela urder tock in Cuda.

Sanchez said that tke ansver Cutela received night ve crucial to

‘ : CIA's relationship with Cubela, Sanchez recoczended that "highest :
f 7 i: 4
:

and profound consideration be given as reeling drawn by all vho in

# contact Cubela is that he determined attempt op against Castro with

or without U.S. support." . if

13 October 1963

|

The Paris Station cabled: "Sanchez ETA LOD 13 Oct. Pending change
after 12 Oct meet Sanchez plans return Hgs after LOW stop in order discuss i:
details operation before entering finsl round discussions vith AMLASH."

Ch az october .

AAAIEL URE oe ates decent

Red Stent cabled the results of a meeting with Cubela and
Tepedino. Cubela, ina private conversation with Stent, retterstea
bis desire to speak vith a high-level U.S. Goverment offictal. Stent  -
" pada that basically Cubela vanted assurances that the U.S. Goverment

* would support him if his enterprise vere successful.

SORE SAP UN NON Ride Aen veneer

October 1963

Desmond FitzGerald, then Chief, SAS, who was going to Parts on

‘other business, arranged to neet vith Cubela to give hia the assurances


t
i
i
|
!

he cought. The contact ploa for the reetizg, 2 copy of vaich 1:. fn the

AMIASH file, bas tais to say on caver: peaeiettenn

FitzGerald will represent self as personal representative of

Robert F. Kencedy who traveled Faris for specific purpose

Eeeting Cubela anc giving him assuracces of Muli U.S. Support

if there {s change of the preseat coverzcent in Cuba.
According to FitzGerald, he discussed the pleneed meeting with the :
DD/? (Helas) woo decided it vas rot necessary to seek approval froa fae
Robert Kennedy for FitzGerald to speak in bis rane.

The meeting was held in Red Stent's house in Paris on 29

October 1953. FitzGerald used ce alies Jenes Clark. Mestor

Sanchez acted as interpreter. Red Stent ves not Present during the
Beeting. Sanchez on 13 November 1953 wrote a memorandum for the .
record of the meeting. It reads in part:

FitzGerald informed.Cubela that the United States is
prepared to render all necessary assistance to exy anti-commist
Cuban group vhich succeeds in neutralizing the present Cutan
Jeadership and assumes sufficient control to invite the United 1
States to render the assistance it ts Prepared to give. It was
emphasized that the above support will be forthcowing only after
& real coup has been effected and the group involved is in a position
to request U.S. (probably under OAS auspices) recognitica and i 7
Support. It vas made clear that the U.S. vas not prepared to ae 1
commit itself to supporting an isolated uprising, as such an . ‘ 1
uprising can be extinguished in a matter of hours if the present :
goverment is still in control in Havara. As for tte post-coup
Period, the U.S. does not desire that the political clock te
turned tack but will support the necessary econoaic and
Political reforms which vill tenefit the nass of the Cuban.



MS etn -enamnmeeeeeien Ste! mesa

: (Cement: Those iavo:ved now recall tte purpose of the

: meeting as being scoething ‘quite difverest fem thet epoearing§ 7 7 HE
7 in writtea records prepared at about the tine of the seeting. “4

: FitzGerald recalls that Cubela spoxe repeatedly of the need for an

assassination weapon. In particular, he vanted a higz-povered

rifle wath telescopic sights or sone otter veapen that could
‘be used to ill Castro fron a distance. FitzGerald wanted no
"part of such a schexe and told Sanéez to tell Li aeeel that the
7 U.S. sieply does not do such things. ‘hen be vas told this,
Cubela ‘said he vented confirmation fron a senior U.S. official,

not a mesber of CIA. FitzGerald says that when he ret vith

Cubela in Paris he told Cubela that the U.S. Goverment vould :

tho: aihby caster at ae i trv eet.
nb AOE ‘

COONEY ran. ems ere 8

In! Sides! enna of the contig vith Gitta in wate

Nothing of en operatiorel natuze vas atscussed at the
FitzGerald meeting. After the neeting Cubela stated that
he was satisfied with the policy discussioa but now desired
_ to know what beeen aa we =e



meee

2k Zovenber_ 1953

t ae Waimeright set with Tepediro in New York City ca 14 Noverder,
3 Wainsright's contact report reveels Cuvela's reaction (as told to
Tepedino) to hts neeting with PitsGerala.

-_. . The visit with Ftzlerald, vino acted ‘x the capacity of a 5

representative or hizh levels of the Goverment concerned with ns

‘the Cuban problem satisfied Cubela as Zar as policy vas H

coacerned, but he vas aot at all hapoy with the fact thet ke still
7. "aS not given the teckzical assistance ror the operatioral plan
as he saw it. Tepedins said that Cubela dvelt constantly oa

i this point. He could not understand why be vas dented certain
*, pall pieces of equizment which Procised a firal solutio= to
+i the probles, while, oa the other hand, the U.S. Goverment
+ gave much equimcent end roney to extle G@rozps for their an
- ineffective excursions against Cuban ccastel targets.

ix -,, Aecording to Tepedino, Cubela feels strongly oa this point,
{7 and if he does not get advice and materials frou a U.S. if
Goverment tectaictan, be will probably becoce fed-up .
again, and ve vill lose vhatever progress ve have made to date.

- Thus far, this account of the Cubela Project bas been based alnost



to move when asked. :

wholly cn docesents found in the pr:

Froese 24

Pestasteg is

i
Sesouny Of sa epiecie fa the Cute!s operation lea y Bich there is no |

ft

” dommentary evidence. Dr. Gunn hus a resort df nice Contacts and | yi...
their datec; Otherwise, this somery ts arava! tron the recollections
of those {nvolved. bp .. eed

Ssackez says thy Sy vbtle Cubele vas axxtous to Co away with

Castro, Cubela vas nos willing to sacrivice Re
for Castro's. What Cutela really

Sow lite in exchange *

wanted vas a Bigh-povered, Silenced
rifle vith aa eflective razge of hu-dreds or thousands of yards.

Cutela flnaliy said thet, as a doctor of medicine (watch ke was), he

was quite sure that ve could devise sore te

chaical neaas of doing the thd }
Job that would not autecat :

feally cacse his to lose bis ova life tn
the try, .«
Samuel Halpern ena Hestor Sanchez approached Dr.

assistance. Although none of the participants Specifically so Stated,

it may be inferred that they'vere seexing 2 reans of assassination
of @ sort that Cubela might
devised himself,

Guna for ae

|

reasonably have been expected to have
What they settled upoa was Black Leaf ko, a common,

+ ‘easily-obtainable “Insecttetce containing about 4o/nicotine sulphate, : '

Meotine is a deadly roison that may be adzinistered orally, by injecttoa, :

or by abdsorptica through the skin. It ts likely that there also were .
discussions of neans of adaiatstering the

Poison, because Gunn vas ready

‘The plen reached the action stage when Ealpern end Sanchez



1 =

AAALAC Ben gM ete scant once

AS sanousconaeen te.

Gana egata on the rorzing cf 2) Novecder 1953 eat told hin chat tte
device for administering the poisca (a tall:cint pen rigged asa
hypodernie syringe) ted to be ready In time for Sanchez to catch a
plane at roca the next day. Guna suys that he vent immediately to
the FI/D vorzshop and spent the rest cf the dey and cost ofthat
night fabricating the device. ‘cose in FI/D vse vorked vith his
knew vhat be ves trying to cake but not for ihom it was intended.
Eventually, efter seven or eight failures, he succeeded in converting
@ Paper-Mate pen into a hypoderaie syringe that worked. He said that
the needle was so fine that the victin vould hardly feel it vien it
was inserted--be compared it with the scratch froma shirt vith ~
too much starch. He delivered tke vorkable device to Sanches the
following morning and retained tvo of the later prototypes. He states
that they are still in his safe. Be does not kncv vhat happened to
‘the device he gave Sanchez; he does not remember its having been
returned to him. He believes he vas told that Cubela refused to

_ accept the device. «He says he vould not now be able to differentiate
the final pen from the earlier prototypes that are in bis safe.

22 Novenber 1963, =

Restor Sanchez arrived in Paris ca the morning of 22 Noverber

and met with Cubela lete that efternoon. Sanchez states that he

i
i
{

i
i
i



B
i 3
gira shoved the per/syringe to Cubela ant expiaized how it worked. Be is not i

sure, but be ‘believes that Cubels accepted che device but said that ke :
would . ot take 1¢ to Cuta vith his. Sanches Aistinetly recalls that : |

Subbecate i Cubela didn't think mich of the device. Cubela said that,

doctor,
he nev all about Black Leaf 40 asd chat ve surely could. cose up

i with something more sophisticated then that. It chowld be noted thes
ot Guna and Sanchez agree that the syringe vas so: loaded. Cubela ves

expected to supply his om poison; ve merely suggested Black Leaf 40

as an effective poison for use in the syringe.

Sanchez vrote a centact report of the meeting. It makes no

%.

aN

wention of a ren or of poison. The folloving is a summary of the

(

t
i
:

contact report. Cubela said that ke was returning to Cuta fully
determined to pursue his Plans to initiate a coup against Castro.

Sanchez reiterated the assurances given Cubela by FitzGerald of m1

U.S. support if a real. coup agains: tLe Castro regime vere Successful.

Cubels asked for the following titers . be included in a cache inside {
Cuba : See

| ANN ner nate cen:

20 hand grenades, tvo high-povered rifles vith telescopic
"Sights, and eperoxinately 20 pounds of C-b explosive and related.)
equipment. Cubela suggested the best Place for the cache vas on.
the finca (fern) managed by his frtena, Guin (ATRUIK/10). Since he
was returaing to Cuba by way of Pregee, he at2 aot want to carry S/w
or say other {ncriminacing paterials with his. As they vere coning ue

ALA LENSE 11 OT MEN EIN LAIN


cut of the meeting, Sanches esd Cubela vere inforced that Presideaz
Kennedy bad been essascinated. Cubela was visibly moved over the
nevs. He asked, "Why do such things bappea to good peoplet™ The
contact report does not state the tine nor the duration of the

Sanchez-Cubela meeting, but tt fs likely that at the very corent
President Kennedy was shot a CIA officer vas nee! with a Cuban

agent {2 Parts and giving hin an assassination device for use egatast
Castro, Sanchez states that he received an OFIM cable frou FitzGerald
that night or early the next corning telling him that everything was
off. We do not find cuch a cable in the AMLASH file. ‘There is
a record in the file that Sanchez vas due to arrive back in
Washington at 1810 hours, 23 Sovenber.

The AMLASH project vas probably about as videly known within
“the Clandestine Services as any other project of a similar nature.
Hovever, ve can identify only four people vho kmov of the just=
described episode involving a hypodenrie syringe and Black Leaf 40,
Sancher Imev all ofthe stozy, Ealpern nev nost of it, ana Guna imew

“much of 1t. FitzGerald did rot mention this aspect of the Cubela ”
operation vien he first briefed us on {t. When ve went back to
him later with specific questions, he said be rementered savething
about Black Leaf"40, but aothing whatever about a device for
administering it. Guan said be had the impression that Fitalerala

=e

se ats baad



Bie re Menten eer ee need ee

knew about the operaticn “but aida’s vant to know." Tanchez ceys
that FitsCerald imew that be and Ealpern vere seeing Gian. Halpern
egrees, but adds that FitsGerald dtd not “zoe the specifics of the
fatricating of an assassination device. a

i
t

tee ee t

Peginning here, the narzative 1s again drava from records in
the Project AMLASH files.

eee Ee

1 Decenber 1963

FBIS reported that Cubele returned to Cuba from Pregue.

19 February 1 7 3

+ The JWAVE Station reported by cable that two separate,
Adenticad caches vould be explaced in support of Project AMTASH

during March. One would be put dova in Pinar del Rio on Operation
* ZORRO. The other vould be taken by the AMIRUXs to the AMINE :
infiltration area. Each cache vould contain, among other things,
tuo FAL 7.62 automatic rifles. .

6 March 195% :
Cable from the JMMAVE Station: "Unless headquarters has overriding



SFT scene aibbineia waleibiencdtdaelinen ee rae ee

:o™
By
: ( : .
i
i
i reason unknowa “AVE for including Tals in cacke te te carried by
: AMIQUKS, wich ‘stress followicg point fa UAVE's eecision to elinizate
i 5 aerate
a FAls: FALs require 7 by 9 by 50 inch obloag cache container which 5
i
i
is difficult to handle in the tnternediate orert." :
1 ‘ :
7 ’
March 1964 ;
ee : Headquarters replied that: "Reason for desiring include FALs 1s :

that this is-the main {ten requested by AMLASH~-1."

March 1:

‘The JUWAVE Station cabled: "Since cannot break dow FALs to fit .
available cache container shorter than 50 inches, will onit FALs .
from AMIASH cache." : .

- 27 = 21 tarch 1964 +

a Me GAS ace as pt om om proton MEE Yr

~

Headquarters cabled the Paris Station that Carlos Tepedino hed
been briefed to meet Carlos Jorge ROBRENO Marlgqvez, “who kas an

important nessage froa Cubela.”

Bs


‘he Paris Station reported that the nessage Robireno tea from

Cubela vas that Cubela vanted.a silencer for the Belgten Fal

Hy sSubaachine gun soonest. i: H .

May is

|
|

SAS requested TSD to produce FAL silencers on a crash basis.

There are severnl later documents in the file describing TSD's

ne eres

efforts to silence a FAL and to nodify its sights for firing wer
Poor lighting conditions. SD eventually came up vith @ silencer

perry

and modified ammunition that fairly effectively silenced muzzle :

Dlast and eliminated sonic boom by reducing puzzle velocity.

“9 11 June 1964 .

Operation ZORRO put down an AMLASH cache on the north coast of : '
Pinar éel Rio containing, anong other thicgs, “tvo each FAL automatic

+ rifles with five magazines per weapon.” Ko nention is nade of
silencers. From TSD's reports on develogment of a silencer, cue vas

not yet ready at the tine the cacke vas prepared. -

1 Avgust_1954 i :



Aenean ene

” Maj. Rolando Cubela, who will attend the event as a special guest
"of the mS."

AGRUIK-10 dated 16 July. It stated thet the AMLASA cache put
dowa in the AMIRUK infiltration erea had been located and that

Steps vere being taken to recover its contents. ‘the pessage said that

it was hoped the cache contained "tvo kigh-povered rifles with
Silezcers," because AMTRUGK-10 vas not sot certain that he could

recover the cache put dow fu Pirar del Rio by Operation ZORRO.

i
H

30 August 1954

Hanuel Artine received infomation through Madrid that a group
Of dissident menbers of the Castro regine desired to establish
direct contact with Artine. On 7 October 1964, an Artime associate
went to France for a meeting vith an intermediary froa the dissident a
Group. The intermediary vas pazed as Alberto BIANCO Rowariz. Piepetsasseae
22 Novenber 1: i eee
FaIS report: “A delegation of the University Student Fedration
. Of Cuba arrived in Prague on 1 Novenber to participate in the meeting
Of the Executive Come! of the International Stulent Union to be i |

held from 14 to 17 Kovenber. ‘The delegation is made up of . . .



13 Roventer 1954

Contact report of 2 seeting f= Yaskington with Artize: “Artine

agreed to talk to AMLASE-1 If it tums cut that ke is the contact maa

Haire ceas octeaere te

for the internal dissident group. Artice thinks that 1f AMLASH-1 is ~

the chief of the dissident group ve can all forget about the
i Het

1
i
i
:
i
i

operation.”

25 November 195k

The Paris Station reported Cuvela‘s arrival in Paris.

>

4 Decenber 1954 7

Restor Sanchez prepared a merorandim request for $6,500 aé an
extraordinary budget expenditure for the travel of Artime for

maintaining contact with the internal dissident Group's representatives
in Burope during Noveaber and Decenber 196+. There is no direct

an or

ve indication in the file that the request vas approved, but indirect

28 . 7
: “evidence indicates that it vas. Artine did travel to Europe and i
waintained the contacts. te fee H

6- 7 Decenber 196%

Sanchez met Cubela in Paris. This is a mamary of the details

reported by Sanchez: Cubela, althozgh umhapzy because he vas unable

Re SRL nDasINRERRI LRM OTIS UN NEF LRN a weeteenrsa we emane emai “44s peer eens ereen eM TE oe


“

to carry out his plans dusizg the past year, continued to feel that

he bad to coatinue trying. Cutela was told that the U.S. Goverment 9 7'# SV fos

| his solution to the Cube probles ves the oxty cze feasible ent that
1
t
i

could not and vould not in eay way tecone involved or provide

assistance in the tasz he kad plenned for himself. Cubela appeared

to understand our positicn and said that if te needed help be would

look elsewhere.

10 December 1964 -

Menorandim prepared by Sanchez end left vith Robert Oven, of the A
“Paris Station, as backgroud on the then current status of the AMLASH eer

operation--excerpts:

"Artime does not ‘nov and ve do not plan to tell hin that ve — :
are in direct contact vith Cubela, nor éoes Cubela imov and ve
do not desire he know thet we ere in direct contact with Artie.

“Cubela vas told ei fully widerstands that U.S. Goverment i Hoe
cannot becone involved to eny degree in the ‘first step‘ of his
plan. If he needs support, ~he realizes that he will have to
get it elsewhere. FI: ‘This is where Artine could fit in

nicely in giving any support Catela would request.” oe

. MeL
(Comment: Sanchez expleined to us that vhat had happened

vas that SAS contrived to put Artine and Cubela together in such

a way that neither knew that the coutact had been engineered
by CIA. The thought vas that Artine reeded a man inside and ~
Cubela wanted a sileaced veapoa, vhich CIA vas unviliing to furnish


to bin dlrectty. By putting the tuo together, Artine eight get
‘ his ran inside acd Cubels might get his silenced veapoa--froa

Artime. CIA did not intend to furnish an assassination weapon

for Artine to give to Cubela, end did rot do-so.)
17 Decester 1954

!
Headquarters cable to Paris: “Wnen Bob Oven contacts Cutela to : i:
debrief him, . . « please confizm statenent by Cubela to Sanches that :
"+ galy money and a fev como itens vere retrieved by the fishermen.
Cubela and AMTHUIK-10 unhappy that fishermen had not recovered nore
i O "from the cache, but it was not possible for Cubela and ANIRUNK-10
: to go to the site of the cache persotally. (Cuvela had told Sanctez -

einige t

f 7
i . that AMTRUNK-10 had used scme “fishemmen™ to recover the cache and

i :

that not all of it was recovered. This was the cache put dom in the
AMTRUNK infiltration area, which did not include the FAL rifles.)

|

. 27 Decenber 1964 .

Aztine and Cubela met for the first tine-in Madrid. .

” 30 Decester 195%" ‘

_Artine and Cubela net for a second tie in Yadrid on 30 Deceater.

Artize reported the results in a meeting with Yestor Sanchez fn
Florida oa 3 January 1965. Cubela told Artine that he had requested

oe
(Aimee : . : = 201 ~

jg 2, Sem ans cae tc ct aco EH MeO eet bheR rar

rene rhe, eecaringine Manis re mm emetic ete og tenement


Herat eo esta tt ereeaeonereens ea

@ Silencer for a FAL rifle trea tke fsericaas, witch they nad sot teen
edle to provide. Artine agreed to furnish wither a silencer for a

5 + tbe ae

YaL or a cozparable rifle with Silencer. If Artine obtained a

Silencer for a FAL, Cubela vould persomaliy carry it tack to Cuba
with hin. If Artize had to settle for sone other tyze of silenced

eee.

. rifle, he would cacte it in Cuba for Cubela.

; N

23 January 1965

|
|
1
|

Sanchez arrived in Paris for reetings with Cubels. °

2 February 1965 :

Sanchez cAbled from Paris: "Cubela and Tepedino returned Paris

vith Artime and be vell satisfied vith arrangements which he outlined

for our informetion (elong same lines as reported by Artine)..... . :
Riss Dividing cing tn Yara witch cube plans carry beck ta
personal lrgange.* see Peer ee Bae

31 Jamary. Met 1 February. Cubela states full agreement reached |
!

Sanchez cabled fron Paris: “As of Hovenber 1964 ven Cubela departed
“Cuba neftzer he nor AMTRUNK-10 had received any part of the Matenzes
cache. AMTSINK-10 told him fishersen recovered money and pests of

Comlcntions gear but that poney vas no good Stace 4 vas tn @ series a aa oust So
out of

Of elirculatioa.”



G

AEMRONTCE LASER NOLNe BEE RENE SRN RRR oem pee mene:

Madrid Station casled: "From Cubela on 10 Febhary: 0a 10 oF

ll Februery Cubela 13 to receive one pistol vith silencer azd one
Belgina FAL rifle with silencer fros Artine's secretary. Both weapoas
come froa U-S. and sow in Madrid.” (This is ia coatltet with the
earlter report that Artine would cache a rifte azd s{leacer if that

were all be could find. We are unable to resolve the con‘lict.)

22 February 1

we

The Pacaza City Station cabled: “Artine reported on final neeting
vith Cubela: Artine had three pacvages of spectal itens rade up by :

bis technical people and delivered to Cubela in Madrid. Cubela

‘

seened satisfied.” : : :

& Marchea 1 =

Carlos Tepedin reported receiving a telephone call frm a
+ friend in Havane vio kad seen Cubela tack in Havana the previous day.

15 March 1965

‘The Madrid Station cabled that one Rafael CARCIA-BUZG0 Dirube

had arzived in Madrid from Cuba on 15 March and bed been introduced i

toa station ofticer. Gercia-Bango claimed to te in contact vith a i

ee fae bec nitrite siektn aren et Sorta ote

Some eet



«

ercup of Cuban xilftery iesders vao vere plooring to eliminate Castro

EM + and taze over the governsent. It quickly becme clear that be ves
5 referring to Cubela. Gercia-Bango said that he aed alvays been
oe, Publicly identified as a close friend of Cubela, vhom he last saw

in Eavana on 9 March. Garcia-Bango said that ne had been the lavyer
q for the Capri Kotel in Ravan. Ee vas jailed for 75 days in July

1962 for defending Santos Trafficante, a U.S. citizen and exemanager .

H
i
!
1
H
t

of the Capri gambling casino vio vas kicked out of Cuba.
a _ (Comment: Tits is erother ranc-lirk betveen Cubela and
; : the gembling syndicate plots reported upon earlier in this
report. Trafficante vas one of the principals in Shef Edvards'

F

* . .

i Phase Ove of the operation. He presumably was not involved in
j Phase vo under Earvey, but we cannot be sure of that. After all, wee
i ‘Trafficante was the man vho brought Varona into the operation late

nn on

in Phase Que, and Varona vas one of the min players during Phase
vo. ‘The three-man team that vas sent in/Varona was reported,

i | on 21 Sune 1962 to be in place in Cuba.)

June 1965 : :

Headquarters cecided to terzirate all contacts with key menbers

circle of Cubans vio knew of Cubela's plans and of CIA's association
cere EC Bae Bees

| of the Cubela group. It had became increasingly apparent thet the


|
j
2

f
\
|
|

. Gastro. Blanco claired to have a message from Cubela, which Cubela

"US. Coverzent vere vith then and villtag to support thea. If the *

With then was ever-sideniag. The lest straw cane in early June 1955,
(Wote: ‘Tere isa | Aiscrepancy in éaves. che eezoran-um prepared as

the tine lists dates of 2, 3, and 4 vay. Froa other evidence in the‘ =

file, it is apparent that the month vas June--not May.) One Victor
ESPINOSA Hernandez, a forcer PM traizee vho vas teniinated as a
malcontent on 20 March 1951, contacted an [21S agent on 2 June 1965

\

with a story that Espinosa thought affected U.S. security. ILNS

|
|

heard him out and then sent him to the FBI. The FSI listened to the

“story on 3 June and then seat him to CIA. A CIA officer interviewea

him on 4 June. Espinosa said that in May he had received a letter
fron a friend in Paris urging hin to neet in Paris vith a friend of
Cubela. Esplabsa vent to Paris and met with Alberto Blanco, one
of Cubela's closest associates tn the supposed plan to assassinate

vanted Espinosa to deliver to CIA. Tye message vas that Cubela and the
others vith his vere ina position to Lill Castro and others in the
regine, Dut they needed some help and to know viether the CIA and the

ansver were affirzative, Cubela vould send out details on vhat he ©
needed. Frou his story it was obvious that Esptoosa imew the” full
details of the Cubela operation. i

(Comment: ‘There {3 no fadication in the file that CIA ever


ae found out the sort of “kelp” Cubele cocught he necded. Ata

weetiag in Paris oa 1 February 1955 te ested for $10,009 “to
Hi . - orgeaize the interzal group.” CIA refused to give hic the mosey

} end muggested he try to get it fros Arcise. Cubela vas quite EE
1 upset over the turn dom. A fev days later, in Madrid, he

i epproacted # Cubea asset of the Madrid Station, Claining ke

was stranded in Madrid vith no soney. Eeadquarters approved

@ “personal loan” of $200. On 16 February 1965, Cubela asxed

|
i

Sanchez for $1,000, vhich keedquarters approved giving hiz.
In a later neeting vita Carles Tepedino in Kew York City,
Tepedino said that ke kad gives Cubela $7,000.)

|
|

GC. 7 On 23 Jung 1965 headquarters seat a cable to the stations

'
z
{
| concerned directing ternizatica of contact vith members of the =
| Cubela group. It read, in part: :

* . 2. © » convincing proof that entire AMLASH group
insecure and that further ccntact with hey members of group
constitutes peace to CIA operations against Cuba as vell as
to the security of CIA staff personnel in Vestern Europe.

e “Under the circumstances headquarters desires that contact
with key cezbers of the group be elixtosted as rapidly es
Possible, and that assets who =ay be in contact with individual
wenbers of the group or peripherally favolved in AMLASH
conspiracy be warned of danger implicit in these associations

. and directed to eliminate contacts ASAP.” :



SRR ORR RENN 8 MINAS ENE NRL u TNT Re jeer mE OFF Pe girmaen ae =

Ls mi NSS NS dS tr Sinn Soa mere tna

ia Forver Majors Rolando Cubéla ana Pazon Guin es vel as

2 Marsh 1955

Reuters reported fr Bavana that the Cuban security police Cae

had arrested two nilitary officers for alleged comterrevolutionary

activities favolving ‘tre U.S. Central Intelifseace Agency. ‘They vere

ideatified as Yaj. Rolasdo Cubela ead Maj. Fason Guin.
March 1966

FAIS quoting Havara Domestic Service: “The trial of the i
accused Rolando Cubela, Ramon Guin, aad others vio are linked to |
the U.8. Central Intelligence Agency, was begm ia the revolutionary 5
court of Havang district in la Cetana today at 2500 hours."

Excerpts from first cay‘s trial proceedfngs as reported by
the Havana Domestic Service and copied by 73IS:

others who are under indictuent bave confessed their guilt. i 4
The defendants are being tried for crimes ageinst the integrity ; |
and stability of the uation by kaving planned the assassization :

of Maj. Fidel Castro. : H

7 The defendants aze Rolando Cubele Secedes, Racon Guin Diaz,
Jose Luis Gonzalez Callarzesa, Alberto Blerso Remariz, and

Juan Alsira Navarro, ell of whom confessed their guilt in the
imputed facts of the case. Als appearing in the triel were
Guillermo Cunill Alvarez and Angel Zerzzero Veliz.

ar maeeern ws enti



Pe pecan ee RE TT Hn RENEE ON PN EE Nf mt ok te

Senna ca, atnnat
ay

28

at

with defentent’Guixt Guin had been recruited since Septexber:

The accused Jose Luis Gonzales Cel-erreta, vio worked as 3
Giplosatic attacks in the Cuban Sxgassy in Srein, betreyed his
country for 100,000 dollars given bin Sy CIA agents vhoa he oo oa. abe
ccatected onty a mooth after his errival in Spain. (Ee) met.
with an official of the aforenentioned or=nizmtios of
international subversion nazed Janes cel vho covered his
activities by appearing as an officiel of the U.S, Eatessy in
Spain. Noel cemazied that biograpaic infomation and -
Asformation edous <he Cutan dipicm=atic sisaten be furnished him
under this arzaagesent.

Cubela during bis stay in Europe sakes three trips to Spain,
on 26 December 190+, and on 6 ani 20 Feorcary 1965. ‘The
revolutionary ringleader Artime goes to Madrid at the beginning
of February 1965. A meeting is held betveen Cubela and Artine
in which they egree on the final plea. :

This plen vould begin wit!: a persoral attack aimed at
Maj. Fidel Castro Ruz. ‘This erininai act would be followed
by an arzed invasion of the comtry 48 hours later by U.S.
troops. ‘The attack against Conrade rides] Castro would be nace =
using a 7.62 oa. FAL rifle that Cubela owned. ‘his veazon -
would be fitted vith a powerful 4xk0 teflescopic sight and a
silencer. 7 i
Artine sent Gallego to the United States to get the
telescopic sight and the silencer. Once obtained, this
equiment vas delivered to Blanco Rowariz. He in tura delivered
it to Gonzalez Callarreta who then delivered it to Cubela the
day before he left Madrid.

- In order to insure the suecesshf his plans, Cubela meets)

1963 as @ spy for the Yankee CIA. ‘his recruiting wes done by.
CIA agent Miguel Diaz who infiltrated Cute in order to recruit
him, and did so.
Seized in Cubela's residence was a Tasco bread telescopic
Sight vith accessories, the FAL rifle, lerge qurantities of weapons
and amnmition for them, freguentation end incendiary grenades, .
end other military equiyment and neteriel. i?


w

i

)

~~

The punishzeat to vaich the defendants are subject and vaich
this prosecutioa wishes icrszed is as follows: For Rclaado
Cubela Secades, Room Guin Diez, Jose Luis Goazeler Geitarzeca,
and Alberto Blanco Ronariz--the death pensity by Firing sqved.
For Juan Alsiza Pavarro, Gufllerso Cuntll Alvarez, acd Angel
7 Eerrero Veliz--30 years isprisoment pius correspendirg
additional penalties.

Q March 1956 ane

FBIS report froc Havana Domestic Service: “Prize Minister Fidel

satay haar tePtngze-ti ens pcssharsennsfrrspetsiragnoeaeesssar shay

Castro has sent a letter to the prosecutor in the case . . . against

Majors Rolando Cubela, Pazon Guin, and other defendants. In it, the

Prize Minister says that it must be reccgnized from all this, a bitter
. but .seful lesson may be dravn, edding, ‘I suggest that the court
not ask the death sentence for s~y of the accused.”

)

10 March 1: 7 :

: Fails report of testimony given in court on & March:

: Question: Do you recall vhen the silencer broke? ate |

Cubela: ‘The silencer? Actually, Landi mmentensde semicon
The silencer agtually did not break. + 2

Pe POON A: EEN PN NN em neem see Ae Merc 8

- Qsestion: Where fs the silencer?

Cubela: I threw the silencer avay because it was burning ny bends.
Prosecutor: Have you spoken with Comrade Fidel Castro recently? _

Cubela: Yes..

Prosecutor; Can you tell the court when you spoke with Casrade Fidel?


FBR pens we

Se REN,

March 1)

Cubela: I believe tt vas in Jenuary, let =e see, in Jexiary,
in January.

Prosecutor; In Janzery! Do you recall tte conversation you bhsa
with Conrede Fidel, end afd Comrade Fidel offer to kelp you?

Cubela: Conrade-Pidel opened the doors, opened the doors to
re. He gave ne, be gave re to understand that he kmev wat I
was doing but I did not keve enough ecurese to tell his.

ee eee

Defense Attorney: Cubela Secades, what, in your viev, is the
punishment nerited by conduct of this cature?

i
!
|

Cubela: Ths vorsti =~

Question: What do you mean by “the worst?"
Cudela: ‘The wall.

1

Question: «What do you mean by "the velit" : : |

Cubela: Deserved execution by a firing squad. |
H
t

FBIS report quoting Havana Docestic Service of 10 March: :

‘Revolutionary Court Ho. 1, vhich has tried case-108 in crines

against the integrity and security of the nation, has prooounced a
sentences on the accused Rolando Cubela Secades, Ramon Guin Diaz,

end others. ~ . t

Acconiing to the sentences, Holendo Cubela and Remon Gufa vere

sentenced to 25 years inprisenzent; Jose Luis Gonzalez Gallarreta 4
end Alberto Blanco Rozariz, 20 years; and Jvan Hilario Alsing _
Favarro, 10 years.

*Guillerso Cunil Alvarez en’ Angel Herrero Veliz were absclved cf
guilt. ‘They were released provided they are not liable to aay
other charges.

are



daar mere,

(Comment: It 1s vorth novins chat nose of Cudela's eealings

: with CIA from varch 195) unti? Jovester 195: vere mentioved in the
ee 7 trial proceedings. Tie ‘first association of Cubele vith CIA :
: vas in connection with his trip to Zurupe Ia late 193% and
a early 1955 during vaich he had nfs reetings vith‘Artine. The :
: trial evidence vas confined to Cutela's counterrevolutiorary i

i activities gzroving out of those reetings vith Artine ia : a

. December 196% and February 1965. ‘oze of bis many afrect :

i contacts with CIA officers, sose of vhom he krew by trie name,

Fy vere mentioned. There is not even a hint of the ballpoint pen/ 4
hypodermic/Black leaf 40 episode. The Cutan authorities may y t
have gotten that infornation fros hin and eecided not to. . . i !

a 7 introduce it in evidence, but ve can think of ro convincing © |
fa reason vhy they would have withheld it. Te closest ve can cone

to a decent reason, and it is pure conjecture, is this; Castro

. way have thought 1t politically imprudent to allow the execution {
_ OF someone 50 glose to his Aner circte, who bad merely plotted i
without actiag. rt the ful details of Cubela's involvesent

vith CIA had come out in court, Cestro might keve had little

excuse for asking for lentency.)

ERR 2 BY PARSE MANE eR a cot RRND EES

Te Bertone ot neta Oe Beta T Rle NE RSAC AER a Fe a tc


H Drew Fearsoa clains to have a report that there vas a high-level |
| i reeting at the Departzent of State at witch plans for the assasst=a-
fieaiae tion of Castro were discussed. *2 find record of two high-level,
ie intezagency meetings at watch assassizaticn of Castro vas raised. The

first (and probably the oze to which Pearson refers) vas at the

Departuent of State on 10 August 1962. It was a meeting of the .

Special Group (Augmented). The second meeting we have identified
was held on 30 July 1954. It vas a meeting of the 303 Comittee !
and probably was held in che Walte House Situation Roos. The tvo

meetings are described separately belov.

10 August 1!

The Svectal Group (Augnentea) met at the Departnent of State, oy
either in Secretary Rusk's office or in his conference room. Leal
folloving are recorded as being present: —

fe Dean Rusk, Alexis Johnson, Evin Martin, . .
Richard Goodvin, Rotert Hurvitch H

White House  Haxvell Taylor, McGeorge Bundy (Bil) Harvey's
Z notes record that Robert Kemmedy was absent
and tbat Bundy bad nis proxy.)

DeZense Robert McNamara, Rosyell Gilpatric, Lyraa
istread - Temnitzer, Edvard Lansdale s aia



CIA Icha MeGone, Wife Harvey
USEA i Edvard tirrey, Donald wilson

Secretary Thozas Parrott

Tom Parrott's minutes of the meeting rave no nentton of th: | :

subject of assassination. Both McCome and Hervey recall that

McNarara raised the subject. Harvey's notes taken at the meeticg

show that it vas also mentioned by Murrov, but the oature of the
comments was not recorded. Mr. McCore states, in a memorandum of
1s April 1967, that ke recalls meetings on 8 or 9 August in the H
JCS Operations Rooa in the Pentagon and an 10 August 1962 in ; i

1

‘Secretary Rusk"s conference room. At one of these meetings (and.
* MeCone now recalls it as being at the JCS) the suggestion was made
“that top people in the Cutan regine, including Castro, be liquidated.
(Coment: As it vill later be seen, Mr. McCone's recollection
ae is probebly faulty. It is quite clear that assassination case
up for discussion at the 10 August meeting at State.) =

itr. McCone says that he took immediate exception to the discussion

and promptly after the meeting called on Secretary McRerara persomlly
to enphasize his position. According to McCone, McKacera “heartily
agreed.” McCone states in his memorandum that at no tine dia the

suggestion receive serious consideration by the Special Group (Augmented)



or by any individual Fesronsioie fer pol:

+ HeCone edds thet through
the jears the Cudan-prodlen vas discussed in terns such as

"iepose mache
of Castro,”

“renove* Castro,” and “xock off Castro,” etc., but that

these phrases vere elvays construed to mean the overthrowing of the

cOmaunist govermzent in Cuba. Harvey recalis that, wher McCone

‘
told bin of the McCone-McSasare conversation, McCone said that ir ke,
McCone,

were to be involved in such a thing he would be excomnuntcated,
Polloving the 10 August meeting, and without reference to the

reported exchange betveen MeCore and McNemara, Lansdale addressed

@ nezorandims on 13 August to Willian Sarvey (CIA), Robert Hurviten

* Grate), Genera Harris (Defense), an2 Don “ilson, (USIA). te

memorandun assigned responsibility for drafting Fapers cn various

- Subjects related to the Cuban operation. - Harvey's assignment

included: “Intelligence, Political (splitting the regize, GReztton

. excised from the CIA fle copy/).

; On 1k August,

Farvey sutaitted a memorandi= to the D/P (Helms)

_Toporting the Tanstale comunteation and viat sarfey bad doue above ian

it. Harvey's menorandum to the D/P states that the excised portion

et had consisted of the Bhrase: “Lneludiag elixtnation of deadere”.

Harvey wrote that he had phoned Lansdale's of; ffice and bed Spoken with.
+ Frank Band fn Lansdale's absence.

Earvey said ke hed protestea the
use Of the pace and hed proposed that steps be taken to have £2

- lke


excised from ell copies. This vas egreed to. Harvey jeleted the
phrase from his om copy acd assimes that iastructims vere giver

to other recipients to do the sane. Farvey told us that Iansdele

repeatedly tried to raise the matter of assassization of Castro

with Earvey over the next several veeks. darvey says that ke alvays
@vofded such discussicas. Tarvey estinates thet five persons in
N

Lansdale's office vere gererally avare of the sensitive details of

Project HONCO0SE ana of Lansdale‘s interest in assassimtion 2s en
aspect of it.

; _ 30. Suly 1964 : , :
‘e ww . a

: The 303 Comittee met in regular session, protably in the Situation

:
{
|
I

meetings vere generally held there.) The following are recorded as
2. being present: :
i McGeorge Bundy, Cyrus Vance, Joi McCone, Thoras Hughes
bce ea , Deanond. Fitzlerald for, the discussion on Cuba
Et e 7 Col. Ralph Steakley was present for another item on the

agency, but it is not shown if he vas present ee
Cuba item was discussed.

H

i

i
Room of the white House. . (Desmond FitzGerald recalls that such H
Feter Jessup as secretary -

‘The minutes of the meeting record this in the context of the discussfod
of Cuba: .



“It was azreed that Mr. FitzGerald would contact »
i Papich of the FSI f= ~egard fer cepors o7 an
A allezed plot with Mafia overcones to assassinate Castro and
which the Attorney General asreed to candle as a matter of
lav enforcenent.”

The reference is clearly to a 10 Jue 193% renozandum information
report frog the DD/P to the Director. The following additional : i

“elite” dissemination was xade of it:

Special Assistant to the President for National Security arses
Assistant Secretary, Inter-inerican Affairs, Departoeat of S'
Director of Intelligence and Research, Department of State
Director, Defease Intelligence Agency
The Attorney Cereral
-Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Deputy Director of Central Intelligesce

sputy Director for Intelligence

‘The report related a proposal for the assassinstion of Castro

that was rade to procinent Cuben exiles. ‘The Mafia appeared to be
involved in the schese. The asking price for doing the job was”

$250,000, with a guarantee of $10,000 for expenses. A vealthy Cutan

_extle, Jose Marto ite cael Bosch, President of Bacardi Rus Interzation=1,

was reported ready to contribute $50,000. Bosch approached the Cater
of Station, SMWAVE, and suggested that the U.S. Goverment also

contribute funds. The suggestion was rejected out of Land. the record

indicates that CIA's oaly Involvenent in the plot vas to report

information of its existence. The last record we find of the incident

Semper acces ee emer



1s @ senoranéus fros the DOI (sisCone) to Bundy, dated 19 Angst 195%,

reporting the results of FBI interviews with the sliezed Farcicipeats.

Ovviously, nothing care of the plot. : Seabee
: (Comment: It may be only coincidence, but ve are struck : i
by the poict that this group of plotters, ellegedly fnclwting :
gangster clenents, offered to assassinate Castro for $159,000,

i
which {s precisely the sum that CIA offered to pay in on |
: earlier plot that very definitely involved gangster elezents. |

: It could be the same group of gangsters, or it cculd te that |
- the crininal underworld Imoys the “going price.")

6)
¢
\

As we have ‘said earlier, if Drew Pearson hss firm infomation on 7: |
@ high-level meeting at vhich assassination of Castro vas discussed, i

it Ls likely that the reference vould be to the 10 August 1962 meeting
7 of the Special Group (Augmented). ‘The 30 July 1994 303 Comittee
c Meeting is described only because its reference to assassination of |

Castro might be distorted to assuse some of the characteristics of

“the Pearson story. : . .

7 aoe anit) -teneeneeeetmeeest or cadaaemeaeintane ee eee

Sa et aie, Rake ong ne ge RR Foe le LAN A PORN ELS es ante HN hin tame nm we seoarats


ee ee ee

anton ; me oot meee
: 8

a.

7)

Publi ched Netatia
The CIA hatched a plot to knock off Castro,

Robert Kennedy may have approved an
auoavsimtton plot.

- Underworld figuren were actually recruited
to carry out the’ plot.

Three hired ancaosins wore caught in Iavana
where a lone ourvivor is atll2 suppooed ©
to ba languishing in prison.

Castro learned enough at least to believe the
“CIA woo cocking to kill him. He io reported
to have cooked up a counterplot against
President Kennedy.

Unpudliched Details

Pills were sent to Cuba for use in the
acsassination. . :

Tuore was a meeting at the Department of State
Qt which the assussination of Castro was
discussed. :

' Fhilippines under direct interrogation. We have no

TE DREW PEARSON STORY

The Facts As We Know Them

True.

Not trua. lo wap briefed on Gambling Syndicate-Phace
Ono after {t wos over. Me was not briefnd on Phace No.

True.

Ropelli informed Harvey on 21 June 1962, preoumably

on the basic of information from Varona, that a team
of three men vas inside Cuba. We do not know their
identities nor what may have happened to them. We have
no proof that they were actually dispatched. None

of the announced captures and executions during this
Pperled fite this tean.

This reportedly has come out in the Garrison investie
gations. It also wao stated by Costillo in the

independent confirmation of any sort. (Noto that
Garrison met with Rovelli in Lao Vegas in March 1967.)

.

True. At least we were told by Roselli that the pills
were cent in during Phase One and again in Phase Two.

True. The subject was raised ot a meeting at State on
10 August 1962, but it 1a-unrelated to any actual
attempts at assassination. It did result in a MONCOOSE
action memorandum by Lancdale acoigning to CIA action
for planning liquidation of leaders. The offending
Phrase was later excised from copies forwarded to CIA,
State, Defence, and USIA, but the damage may alroady
have been done. _ . :

oe

AN

Wo pee ee ence

peat Meioese meme el ny

SOEs — 7)

log YA ee a nena ene

~
J
[

news me mtenes pee + se ney oat

‘YY



Die

t
4
t
|

o

aicate Overaticn

ee Fasstole Renifications o? the Gen’

The earlier sections of this report describe all of the CLA eoctatee ~~
schemes eined at the assassination of Castro that ve have been able eure

to discover. ‘The accounts of the tvo phases of the geabling

syndicate operation are factual to the extent that they are based

.

on vhat those intervieved recall or believe the facts to have been.

It is evident that some of those facts kave leaved, are being taloed
about, or are being peddled. Oa the opposite page is a list of the .
: main “etafls of the story Drew Pearson has, as they ere know to us,
zm together vith a brief coment on the apparent accuracy of each.
~~

There 1s support in fact for nost of the éetails in Pearson's story.
_He bas a garbled account of the role played by Robert Kennedy, and ;
be errs in telling the story as if all of the’ details are part of ” ne |
a single story, vhich they are not. For the most pert, though,
“his facts are straight and he has the truly important aspects of i
i i, the ganbling syndicste operation.
+ unt James O'Connell returned on 2 May fron his neetings in

Tas Vegas, we were faced with the difficulty of being umble to seers
estinate the dimensions of the problen facing the Ageacy unless ve

could aiscover vhat has been leaied, by vison, to wha, and for vat pulls) 4
Purpose. Mone of those things could te deduced «ith confidence fica i



Witten ine

!
t
}

the + aformatioan then available vo us. O'Cczsell, who nas already
reported to you orally act will be sumaitt!ng his written report : nea b
directly to you, is able to shed sxe light on the likely sources

of Pearson's information. He has #lso briefed us om his conversations
with Mateu. These are the key points: .

nee a. Maheu dfé brief his attorney, Edvard P. Morgan, on
Meheu's participation in Phase (oe.

b. Kaheu kew nothing of Pause Tvo voile it ws under way

and kas never beard of it froz Roselli.
- ¢. Morgan ani Roselli vere ecqainted, independently of

Maheu, well before Mabeu becaze involved with Roselli in the .
gambling syndicate operation. Roselli vas steered to Morgan by -

K. H. Greenspun, editor ang pobltsher of the Ias Vegas Sun.

@. Maheu suspects that Hosellf is a client of Morgan's.

+ Roselli is drinking heavily. Morgan has been in Las
eens enon ar ton recat, me Giskng ton may ant moe : ce Z aie
“tndiscreet.”

f. Jim Car=tson, Edverd Morgan, end Roselli were all in
Tas Vegas at the same tine this past March. Garrison was in
touch with Roselli; so was Horgan. it is our impression that

Greenspun was alss tnvolved in the conversations. We do not xcow

_.- the date, but it might be noted that one of Pearson's colimns

-12-

TIT Puy

Coreen tenet cimetvtnnet Atte ang aR Ne teint | Minette aperindene tease votre alenetieetnniaaece nae Tane


i : :
H “Eattal Pits Briefing of Yennedyw Three-Han Teen Staa Pept. Meeting

i Barvey Earvey  * Harvey Earvey : :
Rosellt Roselli Roselli .
Maheu Makeu

O'Connell O'Connell
Bataras Bdvards
Houston Houston

Varona Varona

Varona’s . Varona's
+ 6on-in-lav i son-in-law : ¢

Maceo Maceo

MIt is quite possible that the fact of Robert. Kennedy's having been
briefed, and perhaps the substance of the briefing, 1s more videly °
mova to goverment officials than this list would indicate. We
mow that Mr. NcCone on 16 August 1953 asked for and received a
copy of the memorandim record of the briefing. Others in Justice 3

end the FEI besides Kearedy nay knov of the menorazdim and of Ite
contents. —



ir

Bane oe

yo

mA

appeared on 7 Marca.

g- According to Haheu, Morgan ead Jack cadersoa, Drev

Pearson's associate, are very close.
hates Tois seems clearly to: point the finger et Roselli as the ulticate

source of the inforzation oa the gaxbling sysifcate plot and to
confirm Morgan as Pearson's source.

a : We can test the accuracy of this assumption against analysis ve
a a had done earlier in an effort to identify the lizely source of

_ Pearson's story. On the opposite page is a listing of persons

definitely nom +> be witting of certain Ley facts now in Pearson's
i Possession. he 1ist includes CIA officers vho knew more than one
: of the key facts, plus all ‘mown outsiders. ‘These vere our :
conclusions: 7 : ;
a. If Drew Pearson bas a single source, and if Pearson's

eee marr pager

7 Immediate source is the ultimate source of the leak, and if
compartmentation was not violated, then Bill Earvey exerges
as the likely candidate. He vas the only person we found in

the course of this inquiry vho knew all four of the key facts

at the tine the Pearson colums appeared. We preferred not to
think that Bill Harvey was the culprit. We could find no_
persuasive reason why he would wish to leak the story

deliterately, and we doubted tnat he would te so indiscreet as

Prine seanite armenian ws ote,



| caries
| ¢
ee ‘ ;
7 ” to leak it accidentally. Further, {f he were the source, ve
‘3 could expect Pearson's story to be coxpletely azcurate, because cs
{ Z aig
| Earvey knew tae truth. : 4
jut iz b. If we ruled out Harvey as the source, then it apyeared

that there oust be at least tuo ulticate gources of leaks. The
State Departrent meeting was not know to any of the other
participants in the operation~--aszuming that Harvey did not
mention 1t to any of them. Therefore, it is quite possible
that the leak on the State Department neeting bas cme frou
someone who has no direct knowledge of the gambling syndicate i
operation but does know of the meeting. . !

c. From the standpoint of who-knev-what, the next nost 2

Mxely source of the origiral leak is Jotm Roselli, He is, in
fact, the only person vith direct and coatiquous participation

|

throughout both phases of the ganbling syndicate operatioa. He
introduced Maheu to Sam Glancana as the first step ia getting

the operation under way, ond he vas the one vho made the final
Lo break with Varoua vhea the operation vas abandoned. Se knovs
everything that vent on vith the gangsters, vith Orta, ocd vith
Varoza betveen those dates. fe and Robert Maheu are the only
non-CIA participants with icnedfate knowledge of the Robert
Kennedy aspect.- Shef Edwards bad lunch with Roselli and Maheu

: aie

ee eee He i ee nnn ee ere



Bo eos tarerren sees teres

in Loz Rageles in the sumer of 1952. Edvards says that Posellt

knew Eéverde" true oaxe end his position fa the Ageasy. Edwards
a am Hh os

said he tcok the occasion to express hts persozal apprectation

to Roselli, and told Roselli that he, Edvards, had personally

told Attorney Genera) Kernedy of what Roselli had tried to do
i in the rstfocal interest. We know that Keanetyvas cerely
aoe briefed oa the operation--acd only on Fase One at that--but '
i Roselli ray have inferred that Kennedy hed an active role in
the operatioa.
4 d. We did not know what Robert Mabeu knew of the
| : operation firsthand, because ve had conflicting inforcation on
| Cc precisely’ vhen he vas cut off from direct participation. He
ees _ bas @irect knovledge of the first phase, but probably ttle

a af any of the second phase (froa vhich Fearson's story seens
| to coue). If Maheu move of the second phase, he could have

|

learned of it only from Roselli.
“> “Se. Maceo, about whom we know very Little, wae “Roselli's

wan" in the second phase. He presumbly knovs of the pills
and of the three-man teas, but the other details he could have

ot : “""£, Varona's knovledge and that of his son-in-law would be

i

|

| a known only from Roselli. . + 7
|

1
4
Mumited to the pills and the tean, but they should know considerably {

a ee er ee OO ESS


‘sregeeestrm eneuremescon,

_

Te teenteeerabeten aemmitasteadanemteramememtemtatane na att omtebeteaid

nore of che spect f!

3 such as, vho received the pills, the
conposition of the tesa, and the eventual fate of the :2an.
6- Giencans e=i Trafficante were presmably cut out of
Pease Two. They cculf Lave learned oft only fros Roselli.
Abou all thet exerged froa this review of “who had ‘direct imovledge
of wat" was support for the hypothesis that Drev Pearson's story

‘
Probably is drawn froo more than one informant: oze on the State t

|
|

Departrent reeting and azotter (or others) on the gambling syndicate
Operation. We also postulated that Roselli is the most likely

ultirate source of Pearsoa's story. This line of reasoning and the

information O'Connell got fren Mateu are consistent. att ie
" our supposition watt aov vas that the imediate and the 7
ultinate sources, {£ different people, vere leaking or peddling the
story with ulterior motives in mind.’ What those ulterior nctives i e |
might be vere difficult to fathon--for these reasons: - : : |

a. If protection vas vhat the source was seeking, he
could te better assured of getting it by a direct approach

to CIA for help.

b. Msheu vas tie oaly know Link assoctating Morgan with
the syndicate plot, a=t Maheu stands only to lose by having his ” a
rele beesce comnoa Inguledge. oe

©. Ghose who know Morgen, Maheu, and Roselli thought it. -

sachenas-secicenatienitat

LISTS N


t
i #1
\

quite out of churscter for any of tze tarde to be spreading
the story deliberately for a private purpose.

In learning of the Roselli-No-gan link, ve are relieved of the
need for speculation Pe to how the story bas gotten out. It is
quite lizely that Roselli is the scurce, Morgan the channel, acd
Anderson and Pearson the recipients. We cay also be relieved of
the need for speculation as to why the story is being told. ‘he
inference to be dravn fron O'Connell's discoveries in Las Vegas 1s
that Roselli is drinking too much and talking and that Morgan is alsa
drinking and talking to a nevepapercan friend.

Put in itd best light--that there is no ulterior motive in

spreading the story—it is questionable vhetker we are eny better off - -

tow than we were before; our position may be even worse than we tad
suspected.
a.We may now essume that Pearson's story is not patched
together fro dite and pieces picked up here and there. Eis
ultinate eoceee! Roselli, movs more about certain details of ~
the gambling syndicate eperetion than ve do, and he evidently
_ has talked, Trying now to hush up futher Jesks might 45 nore
harm than good; the story is already out azd probably ia
H considerable detail.



b. The Rosel>t-Gerrisoa coatect in Las Vems in March

: is particularly etstursicg. It lents substance to reports that
ieee : i Castro bad something todo with the Kencedy assassination in.

i retaliation for U.S. attenpts on Castro's life. We do not krow

poe that Castro actually tried to retaliate, but ve do know that

: there vere such plots against Castro. Untappily, it now appears
that Garrison ray also know this.

!
|
{
1
i
H
i
|
The publicity on this subject has protably not yet run its |
course. . .
"a. Drew Pearson has not yet, as far as ve know, used two
Of his best goodies: the story of the pills and the fact of :
the State Departnent meeting. i
D. Garrison bas not yet revealed his full cage. When be
does, ve should expect to find CIA prontnently displayed.
c. The Philippine National Bureau of Investigation has a
Puerto Rican in custoly vho clains he participated in a Castro-
+ * dmspired assassinatioa plot fn Pallas. Be also claine that !

Castro nade a speech in July 1952 threatening to try to
assassinate Kennedy in retaliation for tvo Xennedy attempts

on Castro's life. (Je have found no record nor recollection of

Castro having mace such a speech.) ‘The Puerto Rican is in the



Philippices {legally ect protably will be depsrved to the U.S. : i
: We nay expect the FBI to take hin over and wring hin dry. a ee |
We face the 1fzelibood the things vill get vorse before they tegia i

to get vetter. In the follosicg paragraphs ve explore soze of the

reaifications and discuss wat might be done accut them.

ee
Should ve try to silence rtose vho are talking cr night later talz?

’ It appears to us that this tactic offers little chance of
ee Success. For one thing, the story is already out and Probably in
see about es full detail as it ever will be. ‘he only participant oa

hea we have any real leverege is Mabeu, and he has already doce all
Of the talking he is likely to do (to his lavyer, Morgan). We have no

: hold oa any of the others vio might furnish confirmation for Roselli 's
story.

@. Varona is alccst certainly not a friend of the Agency.
ferme
As the Bay of Pigs operation developed, /vas one of the most
verttioal of the nck of Cutan control of the operation ant of

the people involved in it. Be vas bitter over teminatioa of ee

" agency support of hts exile group (and the consequent loss of
his ow income). The Inst ve knov of hin he vas in New York 4

living a hand-to-mouth existence as a Part-time auto salesman.



PWee

I

.

b. Poselli, Giunzena, and Trafficunte have fellea oa

“evil” days. Gtancasa is reported {in a Chicago newspaper of

recent date) to have beea deposed es the Hafia head in Chicego i
and vas rinored to be hiding in Yextco. Makeu reports that

Trafficante {s in jail fa Tespa. Roselli is persona non grata

in Las Vegas, being required to register with the police any u
tine he is in tom. Hone of then would have compunctions about i
dragging in his CIA connection wien be was being pushed by lav

enforecenent authorities. Giancaza has already done it when the

Fal vas crowding hin in 1963. Roselli eppears to be doing it in i

his conversations with Morgan end Garrison. eee :

(Cooment: The cover story used with Roselli, Glancana,
Trafficante, Varona, and presumably vith Orta was that the
sponsors vere U.S. businessuen vith interests in Cuba. Roselli

soon concluded that CIA vas the tre sponcor end so tal4 ‘!
O'Comell. In Roselli's subsequent dealings vith Harvey and
Edwards he cane to mov this for sure. Gfancana naned CIA

in 1953. Ve must assume that the others, with the possfble

“exception of Orta and perhaps Varocs, are equally sure that CIA

was the true sponsor.) ao eeeerenereu ener

¢. Horgan may elvays retire tehind the screen of en attormey-

client relationship, as he reportedly dia vhen the FBI approached
-129-



Mort tenascin.

bit ca the Pearsoa story.

- 4. Pesrsoa, Anderson, and Greensmn (in Las Vegas) are

nevspapermen with a newsvorthy story. Pesrsoa kas already -
published much 6f it. :

e- Maheu does have good reasoa for act uanting the story
aired further. Unfavorable publicity =tskt cause hin to lose

his lucrative client, Howard Bughes. There might be same value _
to be gained from endorsing his suggestion that he approach
Morgan and perhaps Roselli and urge discretion.

Mhat do other components of Goverment know sbout this operation?
Cc Zi . a
Former Attorney General Robert Kennedy vas fully briefed by" °
Houston and Yavards on 7 May 1962. A mecoranii=: corfirming the we
oral briefing vas forvaried to Kemedy o2 1% May 1962. The pemorandis

does not use the word “assassinate,” but there is little roan for

fi castastnsstnsHasesise

nisinterpretation Of what was meant. Presuzably the original of that 7
on (AD. Benorands 18 stilt in the files of the Justice Departuent. Tt should
; be noted that the briefing of Kemedy vas restricted to Phase due

ee ewes

Of the operation, vhich had ented about a year earlier. . Phase Two
vas already under way at the time of the briefing, but Kennedy -as
not tolé of it. i

"As far as ve mov, the FHI has not been told the sensitive -


1 oferational fetails, bur ft would te ratve to asome that they have

not by now put tvo and tus together end coce out with the risht

answer. They know of CIA's involverens vith Roselli and Gtancana -

"+ a8 @ result of the Las Vegas wiretapping facident. From the Chicago

: "" -Bevspaper stories of Augzst 1963, aad from Glancaza's om staterent,
it appears that they kaov this related to Cuba, Wen Roselli's ;

story reached them (Rosell{ to Morgan to Pearson to Yarren to Rowley ‘

to the FBI), a11 of the pieces should bave fallen into place. They :

: : should by now have concluded that CIA plotted the ascissination of i

eee Castro and used U.S. gangster elezents in the operation.

7 Toere is sone support for this thesis in the conversation I kad
vith Sem Fapich on 3 May 1957 vhen I told him of the expected meeting
between Roselli and Harvey. Sam commented that Roselli and Glancana

have CIA “over a barrel" because of “that operation.” He faid that

Se

be doubted that the FBI vould be able to do anything about either

Roselli or Lecaer because of “their previous activities vith your
* people." ae |

Can ve plausibly ceny that ve plotted with Sangster elezents to

. : .

Ko, we cannot. We are re reascably contideat that there is nothing

. in writing outsice of the Goversment that vould ccafimn Pearson's

a ee a ace ee te

enero neice surest ae: Nh SANS RI PSN EE al i pn lg Se


: do something about Castro, such is not true of the earlier phase,

Story of the Bevling syrdicece Operatica, bus the:-: are Plenty of
non-gangster witnesses who could len4 conrizzation. *

4. Waheu can confine that Suef Edvards told Roselli
that Edvards had tola the Attomey General of Rocelli's
activities on Letalr of the Gover=ment.

Db. Varora and Varo-a's ‘soa-Ein-lew (can coafizs the pill and
three-man team elenents of the story.

c Orta can confirm the pill clecont of Yhase One.

a. If an intependent investigation vere to be ordered, t
the investigators could leam everything that ve have learned.
Such an investigation provably would uncover eetatls uimom to
us, Decause 1 would have access to the non-CIA Participants. : i

|
{

, Gan CIA state or : semphy that it vas ferely an instnment of Policy? :

Rot in this case. While 1t 1s tre that Phase vo vas carried |
Ont tn an atworghere of intense Kennedy adatatstration pressure to -

Fhase One vas initiated in August 1960 ucder the Eisenhover
adnini stration. Phase Tuo is ascoctated in Harvey's mind vith the . ~
Executive Action Capability, which reportedly was developed fa

response to White House uxgizcs. Again, Px Poase One bad been startea

and a months before the Executive Action Capability appeared


on the scene.

When Robert Kenedy vas briefed oa Phase One in May 1952, he

strongly admontched Zouston and Zdvards to checz with the Attcrmey
General in advance of any future intended use of U.S. criminal
elezeats. This vas not done vith respect to Phase Two, vaich vas
elready well under vay at the tise Kennedy vas briefed. ‘The
Pearson story, waich is now causing us s0 puch distress, inocluzes |

one detail that is found only in Phase Two: the three-man team.

What neasures might be taken to lessen the darage?

We see little to be gained frou personal approackes now to
Vakeu, Morgan, ‘or Roselli. Ysheu has puch to lose ead night be able
to prevail upon Morgan anf Roselli not to spread the story further. : “ie
It is questionable vhether eay such urging would be effective vith : oF
Roselli, because Roselli stants.only to gain frou having the story :

of his CIA connection known and accepted. We caimot nov suppress 2 ie, 4
the story, because it is already out and nay boil up afresh frou the i i

Garrison case. If we were to approach any of the participants and-
urge discretion upo2 hin, and if this became known, it would perely .
lend crefence to a tale that nov sounds sopevhat tuprobable.

