# 104-10297-10108

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10297-10108

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DITE

616

2 JUN 61

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CLUSI

70

• BELL

FROM

: UMWAVE

H8 Millne (chick one):

So CA Irred Value. Izaleug.

let abe this ropy a indiraled

ACTION : BELL 15

Munch epy Sirl en Inaticaled.

Marked 0

INFO EDDP, COP, ADOP/A, WH 4, BELL SNa: Ma

None regulnes,

10 = 124= 15/1

COUTING

1C/HH/4

JUN? 2337Z 61

ROUTINE

IN 2642

PRITY BELL CITE WAVE 6522

JMZIP

REF, WAVE 6425 LAN24IG)

1. IN DISCUSSION WITH WAVE CO 2 JUNE, AMBUD-L GAVE HIM COPY OF.

DOCUMENTS DESCRIBED IN REF WHICH SET FORTH ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL

REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL IN CUBA. AMBUD-I DESCRIBED THE LANGUAGE OF

THESE DOCUMENTS AS QUOTE DRY UNQUOTE BUT SAID HE BELIEVED THAT THIS

REFLECTED LACK OF FULL KNOWLEDGE PRESENT SITUATION ON PART OF.

UNDERGROUND LEADERS AND THAI ONCE THEY UNDERSTOOD SITUATION THEIR

ATTITUDE WOULD CHANGE. SAID NOW PROBLEM HAS TO FEEL OUT PROPER

RELATIONSHIP WITH SIGNERS OF DOCIMENT AND THAT HE ENCOURAGED TO

THE EXTENT THAT THEY AT LEAST WROTE LETTER TO HIM AND OFFERED TO

COORDINATE ACTIVITIES. SAID HE INTENDED TO WRITE PERSONAL NOTE TO EACH

LEADER TO BE DELIVERED VIA

HE ALSO REQUESTED TEN

THOUSAND CUBAN PESOS TO BE SENT TO EACH LEADER VITH HIS LETTER FOR

THEIR OPERATIONAL USE. SAID HE, MOST ANXIOUS TO BUILD UP ANY SUPPORT

THAT HE COULD GET AMONG PEOPLE INSIDE CUBA AND ESTABLISH BROAD

BASE SUPPORT THAT QUOTE POLITICIANS UNQUOTE IN MIAMI DID NOT HAVE.

AMBUD-1, ANDIP-I AND MACEO PLANNING GO TO WASHINGION 5 JUNE AND

WISHES TO DISPATCH LETTERS TO CUBA BEFORE DEPARTURE.

DIM 1380 Var PARrIOU

(3)

•:::

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

LAS: LIN M.S901E

PAVE-652

2642

_ COAST

2.

AMBUD-I ALSO REQUESTED. KUBARK ASSISTANCE IN OBTAINING

PRIORITY WAIVERS FOR TWO MEMBET UNRERGROUND WHO WISHED TO COME

TO PUPRIME AND WHOM HE BELISES WE MY GRAZ DANGER. THEY ARE

He Truckenne colord one:

ENRIQUE VELAZCO Y DIAZ DE VINEGAR BORAHANA LI MARCH 1922 AND

TERESA BOLANOS Y GONZALEZ BORN HAVANA 21 NOVEMBER 1929.

3.

REQUEST HAS AUTHORIZE PAYMENT SEVENTY THOUSAND. CUBAN PESOS

•TO AMBUD-I FOR PURPOSS INDICATED PARA LO ALSO REQUEST WAVE BE

FURNISHED PESOS ASAP PER WAVE

6426.

PAGE 2

END OF, MESSAGE

•86:

C/S COMMENT:.

* NIGHT. 25 MAY AMPAL-I MADE AVAILABLE TO WAVE CONTENTS POUCH FROM

HAVA AND ADDRESSED TO. ANBUD-I:

PAErIOvA

SECRET

REPROQUCTIQN BY OTHER THEN TSUINU

OFICE IS PROHIBITED.

(24)

---

