# 104-10307-10066

## Page 1

AAAAA

104-10307-10066

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

26 Nov 76

AG/LAD

I thought you'd be interested to knows

Scott Breckinridge learned that one of the transcribers in

Mexico at the time of OSWALD's MINIM™ visit there was a Douglas J.

FEINGLASS (P). True name is Brois D. TARASOFF, who was

a Staff Agent,

retired November 1970 and now lives:

Rancho Contento

Р.О. чий Вох #7

Cuidad Granja Jalisco, Mexico

Telephone: 21-68-89

TARASAFF has a son who is a Staffer with the Agency working in

-IA Division - on the Chile Desk....Raymond- TARASOFF.

About two weeks ago another Staffer named "Millie" who works in

Training and is

s a friend of TARASOFT received a letter from him in which

TARASOFF enclosed a photo of someone who he asked Millie to help identify•

Millie said she thought the individual in the photo looked like Valerie

Kostikoff (phonetic), a Soviet Intel Officer. Millie wrote back to -

TARASOFF and advised him of same.

Source of the above info is Mr. Ben Pepper, SE Division, ×9131.

The above info was passed to Mr, Breckinridge and the undersigned

suggested to Mr. Brickinridge that he contact Mr. Pepper directly for

further details or questions that he might want to ask him.

Joe Li

P.S.: I don't know what this all adds up to.. Mr. Breckinridge was

primarily interested in finding out who the transcriber was. He said

the transcriber reported that whoever it was

on the phone talking to

the Soviet Embassy spoke very poor Russian...

---

