# 104-10170-10158

## Page 1

104-10170-10158

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

Chief of stutlon,

SÄCHET

Ottawa

CATAL AN ANDS

Di recene reduca

CAN IVOGI INGEN'TO

chlet

EuropoRD Division

KEYWAY/Garrison Investigation of Kenneuy Assassination:

Donald P. NORTON

RIOURiO. RIFERENCES

Attached: (U.S.C.) for your information 1s a copy of

HODISH memorandus,.

tojether with coptes of clipplags fron

Vancouver and. Victoria neuspapers, concernino subject.

2. As Indicated in the memorandum,

coples

of the clips

wore botus provlaca tolthe Babassy, so please note the cavout

in tho last sentence of the nemo. lio

3.. Thero ure no Ncuiquarters traces on Subject; his

allegations that MOPACT enployou bin are false.

You

may pass

the foregolay.

sentence to the

Embassy

Lf you are

queried;

subject.

but you should nos halflate any discussion or this

24

Attachments: (U.s.C.)

menoraudum

coples of clippings

Distribution

2 - Ottava

160-10

RETURNTO CIA

Background Jse Only

, Do Not Reproduce

CROSS REFERENCE TO

33 GUFL

VI.- RID

• Files

1

DC/CI/K&A

- E/BC/C

AND NUMBER

000W - 6315

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

I BC Canada

04F:5ER

Janes

MaTE

10C- 366-12

MAIL! AUG 1967

HOS FRE NUMBER

100-3.n-1ї

ORIGIRATING

Howley

COCRDILATING

(17 dug 67) 6333

VC/CI/R&A

DESA

ABSTRACI

INCEX

RELEAS: NG

Trot s 0 2703

---

## Page 2

C UNCLASSIFIED

NTERNAL

Le USE ONLY

CO... IDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUSJECT, (Optionall

FROMe:

DEP

Donovan E. Pratt

DC/GI/R&A

TOi (Officer doilgnation,: room number, and

building)

с/Б/ВС/C

4G20

DATE

OATE

RECENED TORMANDRO

6663

OFFICERS:

INITIALS:

14 AUG 1967

a toch comme

Sagent us 45 istjan

Haran, well sur

was there is statie 27

ago there.

16:8 in firefling

8.

10.

11.

12.

13.

1t.

13.

3-02

on this watter. i

127,16-6

610 USE TONOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

L

UNCLASSIFIED

7/82

---

## Page 3

4-00000

SECRET

1 4 AUG 1967

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT

: Garrison Investigation of

Kennedy Assassination:

Donald P. (or T.) NORTON

1. On 6 August 1967 we were informed that the Vancouver

(Canada) Sun was running of soon would run an interview with one

Donald P. (or T.) NORTON, 35 years old, who had nade the

following claims.

a.

That he was a CLA man and that in 1958 he

delivered $150,000 to David FERRIE for transfer

to Cliba. (Comment: David W. FERUE, now dead,

was a pilot living in New Orleans. District Attorney

James C. Garrison has claimed that FERRIE was

one of a small group of conspirators who master-

minded the assassination of President Kennedy.

Allegations that CIA employed FERRIE have appeared

in print.

Thorough checks have shown that there

was no association between FERRIE and this Agency.)

b. That in 1962 Clay SHAW gave NORTON an

siltache case containing $50, 000 which NORTON de-

livered to one Harvey Lee in Monterrey, Mexico.

(Comment: There is no evidence that Lee Harvey

Oswald was in Mesco in 1962. There is no evidence,

except the unsupported word of a criminal and drug

addict, that Clay SHAW knew Oswald. SHAW is the

orily person indicted by Garrison to date on the charge

of conspiring to kill President Kennedy.)

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

That NORTON received $500 a month pay

from CLA and that he also received bonuses of $5, 000

for the action described in sub-paragraph a, above, and

$2, 500 for that described in sub-paragraph b.

d.

That NORTON reported to an unidentified oil

company official in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

That NORTON lost hia CLA job in November

1966 and was advised to settle down in Calgary.

2. Efforte are under way to obtain a copy of the edition of the

• Vancouver Sun containing the article herein described. However,

C/E/BC/C is also requested to ask the Ottawa Station to try to get a

copy for us, either independently or through liaison. 1o-k

3. All pertinent Agency recerds have been checked.

There Ig

no record of a Donald P. NORTON or Donald T. NORTON.

There is

also no record of a Donald NORTON who matches any of the foregoing

information.

1. The C/E/BC/C is also requested to obtain available informa-

tion from liaison regarding NORTON's general character and reputation

for veracity.

Because Diatrict Attorney Garrison has made unfounded

charges that CIA and the FBI are interfering in his Investigation in New

Orleans, Inquirtes to liaison should be low-key. It is requested that no

reference be made to Garrison or his investigation. It is suggested that

the only reason given for our interest be that NORTON has made false

allegations that CIA employed him.

5. It is requested that a check be run in the files of WH/COG to

see whether Subject appears therein.

Sonoren 7. Thalt

Donovan E. Pratt

DC/CI/REA

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

U

UNCLASSIFIED

"TERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBEC#:: (0870701)

Garrison/Warren Commission

FROM.

& CON. DENTIAL

SECRET

Joseph C: Goodvla

Assistant to the Director.

:TO: lOrrei designation, room suribor, and

bwitarig).

CI/DDP (Mr. Pratt)

2C 17.

MaMO

NORWARDIO

AUG 108T

3.

9 AUG 1967

L 9 AUG 1987

ESTINION

7676

MPICER'S

INITIALS

на

DAr g August 2961

"?: Jake called me on

S.

He wall try to get the

library or Through Drea

ic. Ontact freice.

I'le have Paul risse

morit, RiD Cracka.

VIt doo send a

sent to the Canadian

2кk сакід рот Полей

fom the flation

10.

11.

tis guy a mit.

r a mendacious

13.

14.

1S.

FORA

3-02

610 timous

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

set.

"site over hacke ar

n, I'll asL the F13.

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

U

UNCLASSIFIED

---

