‘iod-10338-10014)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]
: 70 Yu/ODSS~7EUTT

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

January 28, 1997

Mr. John Pereira

Director

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, DC 20505

Re: Request for Additional Information and Records No. CIA-16
(Oswald Pre-Assassination Files)

Dear John:

Under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, 44
U,S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994), the Review Board has the authority to “direct.a -
Government office to . . . investigate the facts surrounding, additional information fand]
records... .” Section MANO). Pursuant to this authority, the Review Board is
seeking to resolve in a complete and comprehensive manner certain questions related to
files on Lee Harvey Oswald that CIA may have held prior to the assassination of
President Kennedy. Accordingly, we request that CIA provide complete and
comprehensive answers to the questions identified below.

On May 12, 1992, Director Robert M. Gates testified to the Senate Committee on
Governmental Affairs regarding CLA’s records on Oswald prior to the assassination.
Mr. Gates testified that “[p]rior to President Kennedy’s assassination, CIA held only a
small file on Lee Harvey Oswald that consisted of 34 documents amounting to 124
pages.....’ “ (The Assassination Materials Disclosure Act of 1972: Hearing Before the
Committee on Governmental Affairs, 100th Cong., 2d Sess. 52 (1992) (emphasis added)
(copy enclosed). It is the Review Board’s current understanding, however, that at the
time of the assassination, CIA held at least three separate files (including soft files) on
Lee Harvey Oswald: a 201 file (201-289248), an HTLINGUAL file, and an Office of

Boaro Memaers: John R. Tunheim, Chair - Henry F. Graff - Kermit L. Hall + William | Joyce - Anna K Nelson
Executive Director: David G. Marwell


13-00000

Mr. John Pereira
January 28, 1997
Page 2

Security file.’ We have identified references to one or more other possible Oswald files
including possible soft files designated as follows: CI/SI, CI/SIG, CI/LSN, and
CS/LSN.

1. Please identify, as specifically as possible, each file held by CLA on Oswald
at the time of the assassination of President Kennedy.

2. Other than for the 201-289248 file on Oswald, please explain when each
Oswald file was opened, the purpose for the opening of the file, and the
documents that were in the file at the time of the assassination.

3. For the 201-289248 file on Oswald, please identify which records (and the
total number that) were in the file at the time of the assassination.

4, To the extent that Counterintelligence and the Office of Security
maintained pre-assassination files on Oswald, please explain why those
offices maintained files on Oswald prior to the assassination. In
answering this question, please make appropriate references to the
Clandestine Services Handbook (CSHB) and to any other materials
(including organizational charts) that would help explain the -
jurisdictional and organization reasons for which CI and OS would have
maintained such files.

For each question, please explain the basis for the answer and the sources (records or
persons) whom you consulted to answer the question. To the extent that you are not
able to answer a question completely, please so indicate and provide the best reasonable
answer. If, during the course of your research, you learn that any record relating to a
pre-assassination file or record has been destroyed, please provide us with all available
information related to the destruction of the records or files. :

These queries should be interpreted in their broadest reasonable sense. To the extent
that you question whether certain responses may be within the scope of our request,
please let us know and we can advise you whether we would wish to include it. We
anticipate that the responses to these questions will be referenced in CIA‘s Final
Compliance Statement.

‘One Office of Security file on Oswald (or relating to Oswald) may have been
numbered 351-164. In addition, Margaret Stevens may have held an Office of Security
“MS-" file on Oswald.


13-00000.....

Mr. John Pereira
January 28, 1997
Page3

We request that you make this information available to us by February 24, 1997. If this
does not provide you with sufficient time, please let us know, in writing, by what date
you believe you will be able to answer the questions fully.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely, i
David G. Marwell
Executive Director

Enclosure


S bre te

THE ASSASSINATION MATERIALS DISCLOSURE ACT
OF 1992

HEARING

— COMMITTEE ON
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
UNITED STATES SENATE
ONE HUNDRED SECOND CONGRESS

SECOND SESSION
S. J. RES. 282
TO PROVIDE FOR THE E eprniors DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS

RELEVANT TO THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN FO KENNEY

MAY Lz. dugg

Printed for the use of the Committer on Geverniienial Ati: :

WS. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
STD WASHINGTON : 1992

For sale by the U.S.
Superintendent of Documents, Congres

erament Punting Otfice
al Saley Othiee, Washingten DC) dase!
ISBN 0-16-039035-4



50

denied, you say postponed. I am curious as to how long the post-
ponement will be. Will it be until the national security or privacy
are no longer threatened? Do we want'to require a mandatory
review every two years?

Going along, some of the language is fairly broad. We had the
exchange here a few moments ago about an intelligence agent.
Then there is another section that gives us an exception—“an in-
telligence method which is currently utilized, or reasonably expect-
ed to be utilized.”

The one that troubles me most, although I know there is a
reason for it, but I just am concerned about the doors it may open,
is “, .’. an invasion of privacy of a livi person, whether that
person is identified in the material or not.” I am concerned about
that being used ‘as a ground for requesting postponement of disclo-
sure. : .

So I think, consistent with all that you have said here, I hope
that you will give us the benefit of your second look at that Section
* Ghatran Guana, Thank

3 LENN. Thank you.
_ Senator Cohen?
’ Senator Conen, No further questions. : _—

Chairman Ginn, Good. Thank-you very much. We may have ad-
ditional questions. It-has been along session this morning here,
and we have additional questions from other members or questions
after we review. We would appreciate an early reply so it. could be
included in the record. Thank you very much. We appreciate.

Mr, Stoxes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Senator Srecrer. Thank you very much. :

, GLENN. The next is the Honorable Robert Gates,

Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, and the Honorable

William Sessions, Director of FBI lemen, you have been

very patient here this:morning. I know we had told you you would

be on by about 10:00 here. ‘We are about an hour late on that, or a

little over. We appreciate your forbearance this morning. We look

forward to your testimony this morning.. ~
Mr. Gates, if you would lead off, we would appreciate it very
much, : ,

. TESTIMONY OF THE HON, ROBERT M. GATES, DIRECTOR,
:. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC'

Mr. Gates. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr: Chairman, Iam here 4
today at your request to provide my views on S. J. Res. 282, the 4
Assassination Materials Disclosure, Act of 1992, and to describe the %
nature of thé documents held by the Central Intelligence Agency ¥

Director could |

that relate to the assassination of John F. Kennedy.
Senator Sasser.’ Mr. Chairman, I wonder if the
pull the mike just a little bit closer? Thank you.
Mr. Gates. I very much appreciate the opportunity to speak on
this important matter. . .
Let me begin by stating that I am in complete ment with
the purpose underlying the joint resolution, that efforts should be
made to declassify and make available to the fublic as quickly as
possible Government documents relating to the assassination of

51

President Kenned:
I lent F ly. We hope that i ivi
ists c opening u j
meni ares ines, most importantly, the pu lic. een ty goren,
Years after the assassination we her Deller frat anger over 23
losure will dene \. a eve that maximum dis-
a thrdr é Bresident Kenney." CIA had anythin, ig to do with
. efore the introduction of this joj i i
ine need aa eater Public access it CIA docolution, or noe ‘eal
nop man with. Gas BBO, T announced the establishment ‘Of 2
many histoea dscam at will be paiPonsible for declassifying as
tion of intelligence sources and methods Consistent with the protec.
W unit, the Historical Review Group, in the ency’s
documents years old or older an national int atige ee sssincation

papers, J am not waiting for

; ig documents be-

: view Group, at my directi

its eee § of the documents related sect aesdsel.

first group of these records, 4 wed paEPy se oreport that the
‘ds, including all documents on Lee

Harv been declassified

an » a small fraction of what | it i
ono a a ero bale ey a

ugh @ subs eel eed, . Speak, the reviewers are
thats Fi pumber of documents and I anticipate

in favor of declassi at '
avor of . ‘gasification. I believe we can be very forwardlear

. Ing-in maki: i
: na ng these documents available to the. public, and I have

the fe is
e Historical Review Group to take this. attitude to

In thin anit.
: these this spirit, the Agency today will make publicly available

es new gridelines. for historical review and declassificatio
these docemeand - itude of the effort involved in revi ewi
in some cent for Cranification, it is important to place thers
ssasination xt, Peas Rlection of documents related to the
copten ay 300,000 Pages of material, This in 10 3 Ba boxes
* riginalr oe, us includes 64 b
bomen and ithe House Sel
material :
axe Kennet on jee Harvey Oswald accumulated after Presi-


13-00000

52

Unfortunately, and for reasons that'I do not know, what we are
dealing with is a mass of material that is not indexed, is uncatalo-

- gued, and is ly ¢ all of which makes the review
process more difficult. The material contains everything from the

oa

most. sensitive intelligence sources to the most mundane news clip-

Pp :

"These records include documents that CIA had in its files before
the assassination, a large number of records that CIA received
later as routine disseminations from other agencies, as well as the
reports, correspondence, and other papers that CIA prepared in the
course of the assassination investigations. I should emphasize that

these records were assembled into the present collection as a result

of specific inquiries received from the Warren Commission or the -

House Select Committee on Assassinations.

Prior to President Kennedy’s assassination, CIA held only a
small file on Lee Harvey Oswald that consisted of 34 documents
amounting to 124 pages, some of which originated with the FBI,
the State Department, the Navy, and newspaper clippings. Only 11
of these documents originated -within CIA. I have brought along a
copy of Oswald’s file as it existed before the assassination so that
you can see firsthand how slender it was at the time. As I have
already noted, we have declassified the CIA documents in this file
with quite minimal deletions and we are providing them to the Na-
tional Archives. : : :

The records in this file dealt with Oswald’s defection to the
Soviet Union in 1959 and his activities after his return in 1962. By
contrast, it was only after the assassination that CIA accumulated
the rest of the material on Oswald, some 38,000 pages, most of
which CIA received from other agencies after November 22, 1963.

The Committee*has asked about documents in our possession
generated by other agencies, In fact, much of the material held by

TA originated with other agencies or departments. For example,
in the 17 boxes of Oswald records, approximately 40 percent of the
documents originated with the FBI and about 20 percent originated:
from the State Department or elsewhere.

Our staff is still going through the-material compiled at the re-
quest of the Warren Commission and the House Committee
on Assassinations, which includes 63 boxes of Peper ‘records and
one box that contains 73 reels of microfilm. microfilms, in
part, overlap material in other parts of the collection. ‘We estimate
that within the 68 boxes of paper records, approximately 27 per-
cent originated with a variety of other U.S.: Government agencies,
private organizations, and foreign and American press. :

Although our documents do include many documents from other
agencies, we nonetheless have a substantial collection of CA docu-
ments that will require considerable effort to review, and as I said
garlior, at my direction, this review for’ declassification is now un-

lerway. PS es

A preliminary survey of these files has provided us some indica-
tions of what they contain, Although the records cover a wide vari-
ety’ of topics, they principally focus on CIA activities concerning
Cuba Castro, Oswald's defection to the Soviet Union, and Os-
wald’s subsequent activities-in Mexico City and New Orleans. They

also include a large number of name traces requested by the s

53

of the House Select Commi .

rial oie mmittee on Assassinati

= ting to the Garrison investigation and Cuban’ exe aaa

e .

cante Ga fqrmot release a ‘number of documents unilaterally bi
eri eet t Act which protect the n es of

timer tizens against unaui isclosure, the questron

nation ety gocum i mais by the House Select Committee on \seaeat

des Other tha ene many of the documents belong to agen.
Owever, we have alread:

to none 1] ly taken steps to li estrati

to om dinate int other agencies, and to at the proce 3 de.

ioe a one on ot pe Fa

ease the r ification effec iting

document esults of the declassification effort on the Serres eS

While I ex; ‘
under eur’. pect 8 large gmount of the material

During the investigati
sonia ape ndeeation by the House Select Committee on As-

requested on a number of at ‘Security and personnel fil
empl les were
at rfer & eromanes alsa tet ue ct fe
question of who killed Presid officers, Although irrelevant to the
ts ulte tely ended ent Kennedy, these and other personal
uments. I do not believe that the 1 pane, ged nestered pellection of doc-
t ti i 0 the public of disclosure
viduals in kee: ping the information oonge tig} Tterest of the indi-
atory infor Nag, Concerns exist with documents ini
is formation on particular individuals where th
ids Pho procs wt, OH les le contain the ater
wa e - .
such a entiality, We would not disclose ormation on a promise

public, the cy. will make red is

legislation is not. passe Ingress

Presi § not. passed by. the Co i

Fre id seeoegording the JFK Papers, to enhance pale nee
lve to the jurance @ that a has not held Back information
ius pe oy outer z ald appoint a panel of distin-

18 rt
cowntion of rein Renae’ ot ovum Tlating to te
a ee yee
mmunity, I have sions full-time pocttion te ommangence
ie



13-00000

54

history staff and to form the Historical Review Group that will
review the JFK documents and other documents of historical inter-

est.

I believe these actions attest to the seriousness of.our intent to
getting these papers declassified and released, and to open what re-
mains classified to outside non-governmental review. It is against
this background that in response to the Committee's request, I cite
our few technical reservations about the mechanism established by
the joint resolution to achieve this same result. I intend to address
only intelligence community concerns. I will defer to the Depart-
ment of Justice on any additional problems posed by the joint reso-

lution. a ; ; .

First, vesting in an outside body-the determination as to whether
CIA materials’ related to the assassination can be released to the
public is inconsistent with my own statutory responsibility for the
protection of intelligence sources and methods.

Second, I am concerned that the joint resolution contains no pro-
vision requiring security clearances or secure document handli
by the assassination materials review board or its staff.

Third, I am concerned that the joint resolution does not provide
the Agency with the opportunity to object to. the release.of CIA in-
formation contained in documents o: ted by Congress or the
Warren Commission. Under the joint resolution, documents origi-
nated by these entities can be released directly by the executive di-
rector of the assassination materials review board without any
review by the President or other Executive Branch agencies.

Fourth, the joint resolution provision for a 30-day period for
agencies or departments to appeal decisions by the executive direc-
tor to release information may not provide sufficient time for
meaningful review of what could prove to be a large volume of ma-
terial at one time. . .

Fifth, and finally, Section 6 of the joint resolution, which. out-
lines the grounds for postponement of public release of a document,
makes no provision for postponing release. of documents that may
contain Executive privilege or deliberative process, attorney-client,
or attorney work product information. While such privileges could
be waived in the public interest and, in fact, are not likely to arise
with respect to factual information directly related to the JFK as-
sassination, they would be unavailable under the joint resolution in
the rare case they might be needed.

These are the technical problems that I believe can be solved and
that will, in fact, expedite the release of documents bearing on the
assassination of President Kennedy. But, again, whatever the
future course of this legislation, CIA is proceeding even now to
review for declassification the relevant documents under its con-
trol. Further, we will cooperate fully with any mechanism estab-
lished by the Congress and the President to declassify all of this
mat .

Mr. Chairman, let me close with a comment on why I am person-
ally committed to getting these documents out. Like all Americans
ad. enough to remember that terrible day in 1963, and as several
members of the Committee have alluded to, I also remember where
I was and what I was doing.

55

I was a college student at William and M: d I -
ber how the word spread-like wild fire between “classes of that 1 hor.
rible event. I made my way to Washington that weekend and stood
af the aspeection of Constitution and Pennsylvania Avenues,
r hor i 4 c
wi re Iw forget fe rare wai e President's funeral cortege. I

entered public service less than three years later, heedi:
President Kennedy's inaugural call, a call I think many in my gee
eration heard. He said then, “N , the trumpet summons us again,
pot. a8 a call to bear, arms, though arms we need, not as a call to
ie le, though in battle we are, but as a call to bear the burden of
he ng ht. struggle, year in and year out, rejoicing in hope, pa-
in tribulation, a struggle it the common enemies of
Mr. Chairmeay the oan thing more ho yy
Ir. , the only thing more horrifying to me than th
sassination itself is insidious, perverse notion het elements of
ency, some part i
am personally to make public or to expose te digi
terest eyes every relevant scrap of paper in CIA’s ession, in

e hope of helping to dispel this corrosive suspicion. With or with-
out legislation, I intend to proceed. I believe I owe that to his
memory,

you.
[The prepared statement of Mr. Gates follows:]

Prepargp STATEMENT oF Mr.-Gates

Mr, Chairman, I am here today at your i i
‘ Tam a request to provide my views on S. J. Res.
Be, ihe Materials Biselosuve Act of 1992,” and to describe the
Konner docu ments held by the CIA that relate to the assassination of John F,
a very much appreciate the opportunity to speak on this important

Lot mo begin by stating that I am in complete egreament with t

the Joint resolution that efforts should be made to declasify and pace coal
the publ 2 enc Possible Govern ent. documents relating to the as-
4 onnedy. ope opening up ani ing j alists,
historians and, most important , the public access to soveranae es. ‘will tae
believe that mmaximur disclaeeie iscredit te theory had anything to
40 wih the murdr of John F Konneds it the theory that CIA had anything to

fore int ion of this joint resolution, I recognized thi grea
public acces o CIA documents of historical importance. Two aout fr 6 I an
nou establishment of a new unit within CIA that will be responsible for

lass: as many nts as i i
possible consistent with thi 2
ton | of i ell mce sources and methods. This new unit, the Historical. eview
iP, 's Center for the Study of Intelli, nce, will review for declassi-

fication documents $0 old or older, and national intelli i
former Soviet Union {fat'are 10 years gid or pider. In aadition” to the systematic
review locuments, ve directed the History Staff in th
the Study ‘of Intelligence to assemble CIA records focusing on articular events oF
histo Fe port har including the assassination of President Kennedy. The Histor-
i Review iP en examine the documents for the purpose declassifying

Because of high interest in the JFK Papers, I am not waiting for legislation or

other agencies to start declassi documents belongi istori
; t ing to CIA. The Hi 1
Review Group, at my direction, already has begun its review of the documents relat,

group of these records, including all CLA documenta on Harvey Osw:
¥ 5 , 4 , fy Id pri
the efensination, has been delaeaites with suite minimal deletions ‘and é being
‘National Arc 7 e This i d
edge, a small fraction of what we have, but it is an earnest of my commie

e assassination of John F. Kennedy, and I am gas to report that the first


13-00000

36

i i i ion i tely of this material. And, indeed, as I
Pegi he roviowee penne erent antl number of documents, and I
on pate thet many of these wi m to decasy Kaneody assassination documents, eur
Goal will be to release as many a5 possil le, Tn fact, rey OPE traliyat
rects mptio vor jeclassi: rt ie forward

ion i ification. 1 believe we can be very
Teaning n mal tion in favor of dec ‘available to the public, and I have instructed
the Historical w Group to take this attitude to heart. documents
To understand the tude of the effort involved in reviewing these do cures 4
ton of dorursente related t tho aseaseination of President Kennedy convicts ofp.
tion of documents relat 1 ic s of 8p.
This includes 64 boxes of copies
proximately 250,000-300,000 pages of material. his i jes 64 boxes of copieg and
originals of information to the Warren ‘ missi House Select
Commit Assassinat \d 17 boxes of material on Lee Harvey
pulatod a after Praident i Kennedys assassination. Unfortunately, and for reasons
that I do not know, what we are dealing wit is g mass 0 material that is
dexed Ho unoataroed, pnd is highly isorge everythi: from the most sensitive in-
most mundane news clippings. ;
oe re er a oa aie Baca
tion, a large number of records ve ter iting dis nations
from other agencies, as well as the reports, correspondence, an papers i
ination investigations. I should emphasize
tat prepared inthe cours of led into the presen| t ‘collection as a result of apecifi ic
inquiries received from the W: en Commissi sion oF ine Fouse & Select Committee 01
aan Ohi lone PigmeSg ta
pages), sors i i State De} tthe Navy, and
Eevoraer clppags On i dostments osatnd wid hw Gt hare Wroght
along a copy of Oswald’s file as it existed before the assassinat go, that you cen
hand it t the time. As I have noted, we
Siesited the oN Eecugeat i thi file with quite minimal de lations, 9 and xe are
Providing them ti Archives, records 5 n
wald’s defection e the Bovist Union in 1959 and his a activities after his rejurn m in
Fe ne heon menue ory ae 38,000 pages—most of which CIA received from
other agencies lovember 22, . . Ly
Vee rss ct ot ani ere ee
In fact, much of the mat : v ; i prea ot
example, in the 17 boxes of Oswald records, approximate!
Fg ttre errhp era Saar peer geeaber from the
State Department or elsewhere. Our staff is still through material a
piled at request of the Warren Commission the House Select Committee «
Assassinations, which includes 68 boxes of paper records and ne box ntains
‘12 reels of microfilm. The microfilms, in par, overlap material reimately he
collection. We estimate that within the 63 boxes of paper records, ‘bproxima oven
percent of the. documents originated with a variety of other U. i :
cies, private organizations, and foreign and American Prods. ies, we none:
uate ur poling de ince may, documents tom or ci none
review, i iew for declassifica-
effort to review, and as I said earlier, at my direction, this review ox ssificar
ion ii . A preliminary survey of these files has provided us some i
Heations of what they contain, ‘Although the records cover a wide variety | of epics,
tion fp thet Soviet Union, and Oswald's cubeente at activities in Mosica City and
an
Rey Orieens: ‘They also include a large number of name traces reat ed eating
staff of the House Select Committee on Assassinations, as well as material i
to the Garrison investigation and Cuban exile activities. because of the limits

The CIA cannot release a number of documents the Limits

thortsed dusclomure), she soquestration of many dovamenla by the House Select Cour
te oe tions, ‘the documents belong to agen-
mittee on inal , and the fact that many of the to agen

‘than However, we have taken steps to lift the sequestration,
ies Siete wih other agence and to begin the process of declassification. If neces-

” security clearances or secure docuin

57

sary, I will ask the House for a resolution permitting CIA to release the results of
the declassification effort on the sequestered documents.
le I expect a 1; amount o}

public for a variety of reasons, including Privacy concerns or the exposure of intelli-
gence sources and methods. Let me take a moment to give examples of this type of
material. During the investigation by the House Select Committee on Assassina-
tions, I understand that security and personnel files were requested on a number of
Agency employees. These files conta: in fitness reports, (performance evaluations),
medical evaluations and credit checks on individual CIA officers. Although irrele-
vant to the question of who killed President Kennedy, these and other Personal doc-
uments ultimately ended up in the sequestered collection of documents. I do not be-
lieve that the benefit to the Public of disclosure of this information outweighs the
clear privacy interest of the individuals in keeping the information confidential.
Similar privacy concerns exist with documents containing derogatory information
on particular individuals where the information is based on Bossip and rumor. Our
files also contain the names of individuals who provided us intelligence information
on a promise of confidentiality. We would not disclose their names in breach of such
4 promise. Where we cannot disclose such information to the public, the Agency will
make redactions and summarize the information in order to ensure that the maxi-
mum amount of inft ion is released while still Protecting the identity of an
agent or the privacy of an individual.

If Jepislation is not by the Congress and signed by the President regarding
the JI pera, to enhance public confidence and provide reassurance that GA has
not held any information relevant to the assassination, I will appoint a panel
of distinguished Americans from outside of Government to examine w tever docu:
ments we have redacted or kept classified. They would then issue an unclassified
public report on their. fin: oe
~ The effort required to declassify the documents related to the assassination of
President Kennedy will be daunting, However, it is an important program and I am

é lly committed to making it work. Even in a time of diminiching resources
within the Intelligence Community, I have allocation of 15 full-time positions to
expand the History Staff and to form the Historical Review Group that will review
the JFK documents and other documents of historical interest.

believe these the seriousness of our intent to get these papers
declassified and released, and to open what remains classified to outside, “non-gov-
ernmental review. It'is against background that, in response to this Commit.
req anism estal xy

the joint resolution to achieve this same regult. I intend to address only Intelligence
Community concerns; I will defer to the Department of Justice on any additional

. problems posed by the joint resolution. -
First, vesting in an outside the determination as to whether CIA terials
related to the assassination can “released to the pull is incona Avith tm

lic is inconsistent with my
‘responsibility to protect, ini ce sources and methods,
oarances or gore denen ecugeln eeniina ne ination Materials
ent ination rials
Tam concerned that the 1 ‘ ovide the Ag h
! am concern it joint resolution does not pr le the Agency wit!
the opportunity to object to the pint of CIA information contained in documents
originated by or the Warren Commission. Under the joint resolution, docu.
ments originated by these entities can be released directly by the Executive Director
of the Assassination Materials Review Board without any review by the President
or other Executive Branch agencies, 7
Fourth, the joint resolution provision for a 30-day period for agencies or depart
ments to 4) decisions by the Executive Director to release information may not
Provide su; icient time for’ meaningful review of what could prove to be a large
volume of material at one time,
pot, f nally, ction 6 of the Joint resolution, which outlines the erounds for
emeni pul release a.document, makes no rovision for ning
release of documents that, may contain Executive pri Po deliberative | Process,
attorney-client, or attorney work product information. While such privileges could
be waived in the public interest and, in fact, are not likely to arise with respect to
factual information i related to the JFK assassination, they would un-
available under the joint resolution in the rare case they might be needed.
These are the ical problems that I believe can be solved and that will, in
fect, expedite the release of documents bearing on the assassination of President


13-00000

58

ture course of this legislation, CLA is proceeding even
now & eis Toe iplesetieation the relevant documents under its control. Ruther,
we will cooperate fully with any mechanism established by the Congress ie
President to declassify all ofthis material.

Chairmen Guenn. Thank you, Mr. Gates.
Mr. Sessions.

NY OF THE HON. WILLIAM S, SESSIONS, DIRECTOR,
PEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION; ACCOMPANIED BY

_ DAVID G. LEITCH, DEPUTY ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

a ons. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, members of. the
coe oe I have a complete statement wl I will file, and
there are some diagrams which 1 wil also make available for the

of es themselves. .
"Ora ona oer ut objection, your entire statement will
i led in the record.

oon Bescon. Thank you, Mr, Chairman. I am pleased to appear
before you to testify about FBI investigative records relating to the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy. I applaud this Process
and your efforts. It is fundamental. that Government exist to meet
the needs of its citizens. An examination of these issues is directly
related to satisfying the intense interest and concern of our citizens
about the circumstances surrounding that tragic event some
years ago. .

, I would like to state emphatically that I favor
maxenun eet consistent with the law and the legitimate
need to protect certain small but highly sensitive categories of in
formation. I can assure you that the FBI will work cooperativel ly
through the Department of Justice with both the Senate and e
House to develop a comprehensive approach to these importan

issues. ; fre:
" As you know, the Government has conducted a number o!
views of the assassination. The Warren Commission, the House As:
sassinations Committee, and the Church Committee all conduct x
reviews that I believe can be best categorized as exhaustive. t is
my understanding that the FBI provided massive amounts of in! for:
mation to those entities to help ensure that they accomplish
their missions. Once again, we desire to be as helpful as we are

able. .
‘Immediately following the shooting of President Kennedy, the
FBI began a massive investigation. An intense effort was made. Re-
lated investigations were conducted and much information was ex-
changed, as Director Gates has noted, between the various agen-
cies. As is the case with. all major investigations, thousands of
of documents were created to record the results of these ef-

rts and to facilitate the investigations. .
oven different kinds of information were recorded in the FBI
files. The results of thousands of interviews of witnesses, other in-
dividuals with possible helpful knowledge, and contacts with confi-
dential informants were. memorialized. Communications between
the FBI headquarters and our field offices, and vice versa, were in-
cluded, as were communications between the FBI and other agen-
cies. Forensic reports were recorded. In all, FBI files relating to the

59

assassination contained over 499,000 pages of documents, with a
few more pages added every time the FBI follows up on a new alle-
gation or a new issue arises.

r Congress amended the Freedom of Information Act in 1974,
the FBI began receiving requests for information relating to the as-
sassination. By 1978, four years later, over 200,000 pages of materi-
al had been processed and made available to the public through the
FBI's public reading room. Many authors, journalists, historians,
and others have visited and revisited these materials, which
remain available today as a valuable source of historic information.

I would like to briefly describe to the Committee a breakdown of
FBI records relating in'some way to the assassination. The FBI has
four core files that relate directly to the investigation of the assas-
sination. Our cooperation with the Warren Commission and the in-
vestigation of Lee Harvey Oswald and Jack Ruby—those are the
four core files. There are approximately 499,000 pages in these
files, 263,000 of which are’ duplicate pages that were cross-filed,

agency records, and some FBI records that have not been
P pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act.

Approximately 228,000 pages, or 94 percent of the records we
have processed, have already been released to the public. In addi-
tion, the FBI has several other much smaller files as a result of
other directly related investigations, such as the investigation of
Marina Oswald, and these files comprise approximately 22,000
pages, 13,000 of which are duplicate, third agency, or unprocessed
pages. Fifty-eight percent of these pages processed pursuant to the
Freedom of Information Act have been released to the public.

Of the pages available in the FBI reading room on the main floor
at FBI headquarters, approximately 189,000 pages, or 94 percent,
are available in their entiret; . The remaining 12,000 pages in the
reading room reflect some degree of redaction. The information

has not been disclosed or that has been redacted to some
degree falls within the exemptions that are enumerated in the
Freedom of Information Act and the protections of the Privacy Act.

This includes information that, one, is classified on the basis of
national security; two, would disclose the identities of individuals
who specifically requested confidentiality; three, would disclose the
identities of confidential informants or sources; four, is highly per-
sonal information about individuals; or, five, originated with other
Government agencies and those agencies specifically requested that
the information not be released based upon exemptions applicable
to those particular agencies.

While I strongly favor maximum disclosure under the law, there
are certain types of information that are particularly critical to
successful law enforcement investigations and national security; for
example, information that is properly and appropriately classified,
information that would identify confidential sources, and informa-
tion that would disclose sensitive investigative techniques or the
types of information the disclosure of which could negatively
impact upon our ability to fulfill our mission. Information in FBI
files that has not been disclosed publicly falls largely within these
descriptions of information.

In any case, I believe it is extremel healthy for the country to
have these issues aired and to be resolved. The public interest dic-


‘ OQR-OFFICIAL USE ONbY

So SEITE}
oe BEY 97-062

eaves ded, 1997
ty fanuary

MEMORANDUM FOR: Fred Wickham
DO Focal Point
for JFK Board

Lee Strickland
DA Focal Point
for JFK Board

FROM: John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical
Review Group

SUBJECT: Request No. CIA-16
from JFK Board

1. Attached is “Request for Additional Information and
Records No. CIA-16 (Oswald Pre-Assassination Files)”, which
was received from the Assassination Records Review Board on
29 January 1997. The request is for additional details
related to files on Lee Harvey Oswald that may have existed
in the Office of Security and in the DO.

2. Please advise how you would like us to respond to
this request. We are asked to make the information
available to the Board by 24 February 1997.

Attachment


. SECRET

ei te

27 February 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence

FROM: Janet A. Boklund 7
Chief, Information Management Branch

Office of Personnel Security
SUBJECT: Request No. CIA-16 from JFK Board

REFERENCE: CSI 97-062 dated 31 January 1997

1. (U) The Office of Personnel Security has researched
this request from the Assassination Records Review Board
relating to the existence of pre-assassination files on Lee
Harvey Oswald.

2. (U) In response to the specific questions listed
in Mr. Marwell’s letter to the Historical Review Group, the
following responses are provided to those three questions
pertaining to the Office of Personnel Security (OPS). These
responses are the best reasonable answers based on available
information. Please note OPS was known as the Office of
Security prior to 1 October 1994.

Question 1: (U) Please identify, as specifically as
possible, each file held by CIA on Oswald at the time
of the assassination of President Kennedy.

Response: (U) At the time of the assassination, the
Office of Security (OS) held two files which contained
information on Lee Harvey Oswald. A file entitled Defectors
File (#0341008) contained a reference to Lee Harvey Oswald,

Regraded Confidential CL BY: Ca
When Separated From CL Reason: 1.5(c)
Secret Attachment DECL ON: X1

DRV FROM: COV 1-82
SECRET


SECRET

and the Office of Security also had a subject file on Lee
Harvey Oswald (#0351164). This information was reflected in
the automated security database known as the Management Data
Program/Personnel Security (MDP/PS). These files were
originally miscellaneous files which were converted to the
above numbers circa 1964. A‘hand search was also conducted
of microfiche records which were superseded by the automated .
system. This hand search produced the same results as the
automated search of MDP/PS.

(U) In your request specific mention is made of an
HTLINGUAL file. MDP/PS reflects OS maintained four official
files under this project--#0077826 (an administrative file),
#0090079, #0093466 (a general file), and #0119144. All of
the HTLINGUAL files were destroyed on 8 April 1994 along
with numerous soft files. Since this material has been
destroyed, OPS cannot definitively state whether these files
contained any information on Lee Harvey Oswald. A search of
Oswald’s name did not produce an index reference to any of
these files.

(U) Attached is all of the available information
regarding the destruction of the HTLINGUAL files. This
information was retrieved from of the
Information Management Branch/Records Control Section and
from a review of general office administrative files.

Question 2: (U) Other than for the 201-289248 file
on Oswald, please explain when each Oswald file was
opened, the purpose for the opening of the file, and
the documents that were in the file at the time of the
assassination.

Response: (U) As noted above, all HTLINGUAL files have
been destroyed. Since OS files are usually set up in
chronological sequence, a search of files with numbers in
close proximity to those recorded for HTLINGUAL was
undertaken. This search revealed the approximate opening
dates for the four official HTLINGUAL files as:

#0077826 Opened approximately July 1952
#0090079 Opened approximately February 1953
#0093466 Opened approximately July 1953
#0119144 Opened approximately May 1955

2

SECRET


SECRET

(U) HTLINGUAL was a Directorate of Operations project
that involved opening incoming and outgoing mail destined to
and from the Soviet Union, {China and South
America. In OS this project was known as SRPOINTER with
subprojects identified as WESTPOINTER, INDIAN, BANJO, and
SETTER. OS conducted the actual opening and monitoring of
mail with the acquired information referred to the
Directorate of Operations.

(U) The Defectors File (#0341008) was established circa
1950 for the purpose of recording information on US citizens
défecting to other countries and information regarding
foreign nationals considering defection to the United States.
This compilation of information was received from press
clippings, Directorate of Operations reporting, the Federal
Bureau of. Investigation, the Department of State, and the
various armed services. The pre-assassination documents
located in this file relative to Lee Harvey Oswald are:

a. Washington Star press clipping of 26 November 1959
entitled “U.S. Defector to Reds Turned to Marx at

15"

b. Department of State memorandum dated 25 October
1960 with attached list of American “defectors”
from May 1959 to October 1960

c. Memorandum for Chief/Security Research Staff dated
31 October 1960 from M. D. Stevens, subject:
American Defectors

d. Memorandum for Deputy Director of Security dated
1 November 1960 from M. D. Stevens, subject:
American Defectors

e. Handwritten chart of defectors dated 26 August
1961

£. Defector outline prepared in October 1961 listing

known defectors to the USSR, Red China, Cuba, and
United Arab Republic.

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

(U) The index reference to the Defectors File
identifies a list dated 13 September 1966 which was known as
the Defector Machine Listing. This listing was a computer
printout of defectors which reflected limited biographic
data on each name. This listing was maintained separately
from the actual Defectors File; notations within the
Defectors File show the Defector Machine Listing as
permanently charged to the Security Analysis Group of OS.
Efforts to locate this listing or determine the disposition
have been unsuccessful.

(U) Information regarding the purpose of the Defectors

File was gleaned from a quick review of selected holdings.
of this office at one time was assigned to the

Security Analysis Group and recalls the Defector Machine
Listing. From her recollection, this machine listing was
approximately one and one-half inches thick and was in two
parts. One part consisted of an alphabetical index of
defector names with assigned numbers. The second part
listed the assigned numbers in numerical order and contained
limited information on each name.

(C) The Special Investigations Branch of Investigations
Division is the current operating component encompassing most
of the Security Analysis Group functions still conducted in
OPS. of this office was queried regarding office
holdings relating to the Defector Machine Listing.

id no knowledge of the listing and suggested

as a resource. CIC Liaison Officer,
could not recall the listing, opined it may have been
destroyed, and suggested contacting of the
Counterintelligence Center (CIC).

(Cc) CIC assumed many of the functions previously
conducted by the Security Analysis Group. was
queried regarding the possibility the Defector Machine
Listing may have been transferred to CIC during the
realignment of duties. advised the Defector
Machine Listing could not be located in CIC holdings; and he
has made inquiries with Directorate of Operations
counterparts regarding the listing.

SECRET


13-00000

(U)

SECRET

The subject file pertaining to Lee Harvey Oswald

(#0351164) was established circa 1960. It appears this file
was created as a separate repository for the numerous press
clippings and reports received from other government
agencies on the defection of Lee Harvey Oswald to the USSR
and his activities following his return to the United

States.

The first volume of this file appears to have been

preserved as the pre-assassination file, and the documents
contained in this file are as follows:

a.

Department of State telegram #1304 from Moscow
dated 31 October 1959

The Washington Post press clipping dated

1 November 1959 entitled “Ex-Marine Asks Soviet
Citizenship”

Department of State Dispatch #234 from Moscow
dated 2 November 1959

Department of State telegram #1448 from Tokyo
dated 9 November 1959

Department of State telegram #1358 from Moscow
dated 9 November 1959

The Washington Post press clipping dated 16
November 1959 entitled “Rebuffed”

Evening Star press clipping dated 26 November
1959 entitled “U.S. Defector to Reds Turned to

Marx at 15”

Report Summary prepared by Soviet Russia Division
forwarded to Office of Security in March 1960

Department of State Instruction A-273 dated
13 April 1961

Department of State Dispatch from Moscow dated
May 1961 with enclosure of Oswald letter

5

SECRET


13-00000

(U)

g SECRET
4

Federal Bureau of Investigation report dated
3 July 1961 from Dallas, Texas

Note to cI/SI\datea 28 September 1961

Form 745 “Indices Search Request” dated
12 October 1961

Department of State Dispatch #317 from Moscow
dated 12 October 1961 with enclosure

Form G-135a Immigration and Naturalization
Service name check form to Central Intelligence
Agency dated 5 December 1961

Navy Department message to Moscow dated
3 March 1962

Department of the Navy memorandum to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation dated 26 April 1962 with
enclosure

The Washington Post press clipping dated
9 June 1962 entitled “Third American in 2 Months

Leaves Soviet ‘Home’”

Federal Bureau of Investigation transmittal
of report from Dallas, Texas, dated 30 August
1962.

In addition to those documents listed above, the

following documents were located in a subsequent volume of

the Oswald file and also appear to predate the ass

of President Kennedy.

t.

Undated summary of file information on Lee
Harvey Oswald

Incoming cable #83858 from Mexico City dated
20 July 1963 (no mention of Oswald)

Incoming cable #01325 from Mexico City dated
17 August 1963 (no mention of Oswald)

6

SECRET


SECRET

w. Incoming cable #36017 from Mexico City dated
9 October 1963

x. Outgoing cable #74830 to Mexico City dated
10 October 1963

y. Incoming cable #47041 from Mexico City dated
24 October 1963 (no mention of Oswald).

Question 4: (U) To the extent that Counterintelligence
and the Office of Security maintained pre-assassination
files on Oswald, please explain why those offices
maintained files on Oswald prior to the assassination.
In answering this question, please make appropriate
references to the Clandestine Services Handbook (CSHB)
and to any other materials (including organizational
charts) that would help explain the jurisdictional and
organization reasons for which CI and OS would have
maintained such files.

Response: (U) It is believed that OS holdings on Lee
Harvey Oswald began in 1959 with his travel.to Russia during
which he renounced his US citizenship. Oswald was in
contact with the American Embassy in Moscow, and the
Department of State prepared reports on these contacts.

Most likely because of counterintelligence concerns, the
Central Intelligence Agency was included in the distribution
of these reports. In the beginning this material was
probably retained in the Defectors File. As the number of
documents on this person increased, a separate file was
created to be the repository of information on the alleged
American defector. There is a notation in the Defectors
File that a separate file exists on Oswald.

(U) Both the Defectors File (#0341008) and the file of
Lee Harvey Oswald (#0351164) were handled by Marguerite D.
Stevens of the OS/Security Research Staff during the pre-
assassination time frame. Of the documents listed above, a
majority of them contain a notation or the initials of
Marguerite D. Stevens, leading one to believe she was the
officer responsible for the collection, analysis, and filing
of this information.

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

(U) The Security Research Staff (SRS) was the
component responsible for collecting, developing, and
evaluating information of a counterintelligence nature to

detect and/or prevent penetration of the Agency's
organization, employees, and activities by foreign or
domestic organizations or individuals. SRS conducted
research in connection with employee loyalty cases and
maintained records identifying personalities, environments,
and personal traits of individuals who had been of
counterintelligence interest over the years. SRS maintained
liaison with various government agencies in connection with
counterintelligence activities and coordinated the
counterintelligence effort throughout OS. Using
organizational charts of this time period, SRS reported
directly to the office of the Director of Security.

(u) secs Dot the OPS/Management Staff was queried
regarding ‘he Wission and functions of SRS during the pre-
assassination time period. made inquiries
relating to the above request, and thé OPS/Information
Management Officer _ retrieved retired policy
records for review. The information on the mission and
function of SRS was retrieved from the archived Office of
Security administrative and historical files as well as a
review of the security file on

3. (U) For your information, a page-by-page review of
the documents contained in the Defectors File (12 volumes)
and Lee Harvey Oswald’s file (7 volumes) has not been
conducted for the purposes of this request. Our efforts
were concentrated on the pre-assassination time frame.

) This review was conducted by :

i
secure 40552)

f anet A. Ecklund

Attachment

SECRET


MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

On 8 April. 1994, the complete set of SRPOINTER and

-HTLINGUAL security support files and. indexes held by the

Office of Security were destroyed in accordance with the
guidelines set forth in the approved: Records Control
Schedules 31-76 and 31-83 and by the Office of General
Counsel. ‘i :


OGC-94-51066
6 April 1994

>
Information Review Team
Office of Security
VIA: Robert J. Batinger
Assistant General Counsel
Litigation Division :

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

Office of Ganeral Counsel
SUBJECT: HTLINGUAL/SRPOINTER File Destruction

1. This responds to your memo of 9 February 1994
requesting confirmation that the security support files of
the HTLINGUAL project are not the subject of a current
litigation, investigation, or other inquiry that would
preclude their destruction pursuant to normal guidelines for
records of this type. A review of OGC files located no
- currently active cases involving the HTLINGUAL project.

Therefore, OGC poses no objection to destruction of the
files - authorized by your approved records disposition
schedule. : :

2. For your information I have attached a copy of a
March 1990 memorandum in which OGC provided guidance to the
DO regarding destruction of MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL project
files. According to that memorandum, files pertaining to
HTLINGUAL may be destroyed only if: (1) they meet the

. erditeria for destruction on the applicable NARA approved
records disposition schedule; (2) are not responsive to a
FOIA or Privacy Act request currently being processed by the
office concerned; and (3) do not. document the initiation,
implementation, and termination of the projects, or
conatitute files on U.8. persons of foreign intelligence or
countexvintelligence value which the Agency is required to
maintain. As the attachment indicates, NARA's requirement
that the SSCI concur in any proposed destruction has already
been met.

CL BY Qx71as0 i

DECL R

DRV FM SEC 13-87.
SECRET

P.2/6


13-00000

SECRET j

= . SUBJECT: HTLINGUAL/SRPOINTER File Destruction

3. I apologize for the delay in responding to your
request. Please let me know if I may be of further

assistance,
Sears TE ee)

Attachment:
As Stated

2
SECRET
i


13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: HTLINGUAL/SRPOINTER File Destruction

DCT/OGC/REC kd /96195) (6 Apr 94)

Distribution:

Original - Addressee
1 - OGC Registry

3
SECRET

revo


13-00000

P.S46
ope. We 794 -@3?17PM USGOVERNMENT
: . 50612
$3 natch F530
MEMORANDUM FOR: © C/OIT/IMB
FROM: W. George Jameson
Chief, Litigation Division, OGC
SUBJECT: Destruction of MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL
Project Files 7
REFERENCE: Request for Authorization to Retain or

‘@)

Destroy Questionable Records: 141C's for
MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL Projects, from
IMS/MPG/IRMB, dated 18 December 1989

1. The referenced request seeks concurrence for the
destruction of MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL files in accordance with
routine records destruction schedules approved by the National
Archivist. Subject to the qualifications set forth below, the
proposed destruction can proceed without legal objection.

2. On several occasions over the past 12 years, DO/IMS has
proposed that the Agency identify and destroy MHCHAOS and
HTLINGUAL records in accordance with routine records
destruction schedules. The major reason not to do so has been
the existence of litigation that has necessitated retention of
those records. With the settlement of the National Lawyers‘
Guild litigation, a major obstacle to routine records
destruction appears to have been eliminated.

3. That case alone, however, does not govern the records
retention or_destruction of MHCHAOS or HTLINGUAL files. In
addition, destruction mey proceed only in accordance with the
records disposition authorization provided by the Archivist on
17 March 1978. (dob Nos. NC1-263-77-18 and NC1-263-78-1). The
approval given by the Archivist is subject to essentially the
following conditions: (1) files and documents that are the
objects of FOIA and Privacy Act requests, or those involved in
any other litigation, are not to be destroyed; (2) files that
document the initiation, implementation, and termination of the
projects, and other files on U.6. persons of foreign
intelligence or counterintelligence value which the Agency is
required to maintain, are not to be destroyed; (3) no disposal
will occur prior to review and concurrence of the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence. ‘ :

4. Ia reviewing the materials you have provided, I have
been able to conclude that then SSCI Chairman, Birch Bayh, in
several separate letters dated 6 April 1978, informed the DCT
that the Committee had no objection ta the implementation of
the records disposal lists approved by the Archivist. In my


13-00000

re i

view, therefore, condition number (3) haa been satisfied.

. Accordingly, with the exception of the case of
United States,

, there appear to be'no ongoing court cases
relating to MHCHAOS or HTLINGUAL files that necessitate the

“retention of those materials. All HTLINGUAL materials relating

to Leo T. Hurwitz, therefore, should be retained. In addition,
any records pertaining to Dr. Sidney M. Peck (Peck vy, CIA)
should be retained. I am not aware of any other matters that :
would require retention of the files at the present time, but
you should contact the Agency's FOIA Coordinator to determine
if there are any outstanding FOIA or Privacy Act requests
‘relating to MHCHAOS or HTLINGUAL that should not be destroyed.
If so, materials should be retained in accordance with the
requirements of the Records Disposal List. Finally, of course,
information that the Agency must maintain that is of foreign
intelligence value also should not be destroyed. :

4. I would also point ‘out that the terms of the National
Lawyers Guild settlement require that all agencies of the
Federal Government, including the CIA, shall not use, release
or disclose, within or outside the Government, certain
information relating to the National Lawyers Guild and its
subunits. Accordingly, if there is CIA information derived
from the FBI's investigation relating to the National Lawyers'
Guild, Agency records, files or indices must ba appropriately
marked so as to permit implementation of the settlement
agreement. This means that, to the extent MHCHAOS records are
not isolated but are contained in other Agency files, some
meene7of ensuring that the information is not disseminated must

je made.

5. Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any
questions.

cc: C/ALD/OGC


9 February 1994

MEMORANDUM FOR: OGC/Litigation S7EV&

FROM:
nformation Review Team

SUBJECT: Files Scheduled For Destruction

-0n_7 February 1994, this office was given direction
by Mr. Archibald, Legal Advisor for the Office of Security,
to deal directly with your office in reference to the
attached. ,

2. If you have any questions. about the attached,
please feel free to call’ on (406: Your prompt assistance
in this matter is greatly appr ated.

3.. Thank you for your coordination and cooperation in

assisting. the Records Control. Schedule Analysts;

0615 and ~__ 40616) oa

Information Review Team


13-00000

‘9 December 1993

a
y, Legal Advisor

FROM: eels
ntormation Review Team

SUBJECT: HT LINGUAL Security Support Files/SR POINTER
Files

ay On 7 December 1993, this office coordinated with p
of DO/IMS, on (47411) in reference to the HT LINGUAL
‘ecurity Support Files/SR POINTER Files. I asked if
his office. had any problems with our office destroying these
files as they were within our guidelines for destruction. He
responded by saying that they had retired their files in 1991 and
ave to look into it further. On 8 December 1993, Mr
alled to say that his office, DO/IMS, had no problem with
s-destroying our support files to their HT. LINGUAL project as
they’ destroyed their files in the late 1980's. The few files
they retired’ in 1991 were on the Administrative and Policy issues
of .HT LINGUAL.

2. Since the DO no longer has a need for the information
in these files (list is attached) and has essentially approved
their destruction, we have supplied to you copies of our own
Security Records: Control Schedule which verifies that these files
meet destruction criteria. As you can see though, by the comment
on the SR POINTER Files, we need to be sure there is no
litigation open before we destroy.

<P In light of paragraph 2, our office now awaits OGC
approval. Your coordination with O0GC in this effort is greatly
appreciated. Please note, destruction of these files include the
SR POINTER name index which is currently utilized by this office
for the Freedom Of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act (PA)
cases... Destruction of this index will aid in decreasing
unnecessary review and research on part of FOIA and PA.

| 4. Thank you. If we can be of any assistance to you, ——
please call either Barbara Deavérs) on (40268, | on 40615/
or za ——

jon (40615 SS

Information Review Team

Distribution: we

Original -
ce -

(pe
CL BY 2039256
DECL OAR

DRV FM SEC 13-87

SECRET

cere aernreqnm ee eeecassarsceeengeeseti tnt AACE, DICE APR LOREEN RC OCLC ORI


13-00000

RCs
3-83 arity. J
ists of security

ctivities Branch.
external activiti

reports. Duplicate

Security Duty

als who contact the

‘Federal Register,

ems of Records,

\ . . federal Register must
i £ 8 changed or

ports, guard post
luty officer rosters.

CLASS EF ICATION

SECRET

j

voutme BERRA TT TON FNS TiC TaN

Destroy when 6 months old.

EMPORARY. Destroy 5 years after
utoff. Cut off at end of each
alendar year, hold in current files
prea for 2 years, transfer to AARC for
3 years, then destroy.

TEMPORARY .

bestroy when superseded
obsolete, or no longer needed.

TEMPORARY. Destroy 3 years after
utoff. Cut off when backstop
arrangement is terminated, hold in

urrent files area for 3 years, then
lestroy.

ITEMPORARY. Destroy 3 years after
cutoff. Cut off at termination of
project, hold in current files area
for 1 year, transfer to AARC for

2 years, then destroy.

tan

“35


13-00006

Res

3-H " Besa itch . FILES IDENT IF CATION © | SEAS Uli ‘| VOLUME DISPOSITION INSTRUCTIONS
. F iq SPECIAL PROJECT MATERTAL

j Record copies of reports pertaining to ‘Temporary. Hold in current file
: the SRPOINTER Project.. (Discontinued). ; area until litigation concluded then

i

i

i

- a J :
. t
e



13-00000

Mail Intercept Program

iy Security Support Files. for HT LINGUAL / SR POINTER Files

99358 PROJECT CHAPERON

OS-PROJECT POINTER

PROJECT SETTER SFN 159144

PROJECT SETTER fans

SRINDIAN SFN 507356 : eee

PROJECT SRINDIAN

SR POINTER/REDSKIN

SR POINTER

PROJECT SR POINTER

PROJECT SR POINTER Cuban Watch List

SR POINTER/HT LINGUAL Material Duplicated from CI Staff-.
Report JAN 29 75

Draft Memorandum on Background -of SR POINTER Prepared
23DEC74

OS Personnel Directly and Indirectly Involved with SR
POINTER

WESTPOINTER SFN 583870

PROJECT WESTPOINTER

SSD Mail Cover

U.S. Post Office Liaison

File with no name related to Mail

SR POINTER INDEX

VOL 1 SFN 93466 SR POINTER GENERAL

VOL 2. SFN 93466 SR POINTER GENERAL

VOL 3 Record of BANJOES Received

VOL 4 PROJECT HT LINGUAL Clearance #90079 29NOV56-29NOV63
VOL 5 SR POINTER General Admin and Policy April 63
VOL 6 Original SR POINTER Documents

VOL 7 Documents Reviewed by occ

VOL 8 SR POINTER SFN 119144 Informant BANJO

VOL 9 PROJECT SR POINTER Admin 11JUN52-SFEB58 #77826
VOL 10 HT LINGUAL Statistics SFN 119144

VOL 11 SR POINTER GENERAL SFN 93466

VOL 12 PROJECT Outline and Cronology #77826

VOL 13 Record of BANJOES Received (VOL 6)

VOL 14 SR POINTER Statistics JAN68-MAR70

VOL 15 SR POINTER

VOL 16 SR POINTER GENERAL File Admin and Policy 18JAN62-
29MAR63 i

VOL 17 SR POINTER 13MAR70 #90079

VOL 18 SR POINTER GENERAL File Admin and Ploicy 27JUL54-
19DEC61 :

VOL 19 PROJECT HT LINGUAL #90079 1FEB56-2SEP58 Memos to CI
Staff

VOL 20 PROJECT HT LINGUAL #90079 9SEP58-15AUG60 Memos to CI
Staff


13-00000

Security Support Files for HT LINGUAL / SR POINTER Files

“VOL 21 PROJECT HT LINGUAL

* VoL

Staff
VOL 22 PROJECT HT LINGUAL
Staff

VOL 23 PROJECT SR POINTER
BANJO File 2JUL53-27DEC57
VOL 24 PROJECT SR POINTER
BANJO File 8JANS8-22DEC58
VOL 25 PROJECT SR POINTER
BANJO File 7JAN59-22DEC60
VOL 26 PROJECT SR POINTER
BANJO File 3JAN61-27DEC61
VOL 27 PROJECT SR POINTER
BANJO File 23JAN63-2MAR64
VOL 28 PROJECT HT LINGUAL
VOL 29 PROJECT HT LINGUAL
VOL 30 PROJECT HT LINGUAL
VOL 31
32
33

Watch List JAN66
VoL #90079 DC Survey
VOL 34
VOL 35

Relations With

#90079 26AUG60-6JUN62 Memos to CI

#90079 25JUN62-25MAR64 Memos to CI

Informant BANJO SFN 119144
Informant BANJO SFN 119144
Informant BANJO SFN 119144
Informant BANJO SFN 119144

Informant BANJO SFN 119144

Special
Special.
Special
Special

Special

SFN 119144 BANJO 25MAR64-23DEC64
SFN 119144 BANJO 4JAN66-29MAR67

SFN 119144 BANJO 30MAR67

FANFOLD Coding System #90079

#94866 Radio Moscow
SFN 77826 PROJECT SR POINTER Post Office Department,

VOL 36 PROJECT DAYLIGHT SFN 243550
VOL 37 Review of HT LINGUAL Project Outline 10AUG59

VOL 38 POINTER



13-00000

SR POINTER Information

‘HT LINGUAL- ADO. project. Opening U. 8. itizen's mail going ©
_stosother countries (mostly Soviet Union): & ‘mail incoming

from: other countries: (1950's). Most mail was opened. in NY.

. Actual: opefiing & monitoring. of mail assigned to. OS with info

‘tuned over to. the DO.

sR. POINTER: Os. name for. HT LINGUAL

WESTPOINTER= Opening nail in San Fransico: {also known as MK
SOURDOUGH)» Targeted ithe. Chinese. ”

NDIAN Targeted mail to/from

P

JECT:

N JO~ Actuat ‘Jetters {copies} intercepted.

PROJECT SETTER- Mail’ opened in New Orleans, targeting South
America. 4

- Project was exposed in Rockefellar Commission report.
Project. names “release ‘with JFK info. °~ : :



CONFIDENTIAL 4

06 December 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR: a Va
Services Team Leader

FROM: e z

Services Team
SUBJECT: Transfer of POINTER and related files
REFERENCE: dated 23 November 1993 from

ny (C/IRT) to

Memorandum, dated 23 November 1993,_

fro (OGC) to ?

1. On 30 November 1993, Investigations and Services Branch
{I&SB) received a copy of an Office of General Counsel (O0GC)
memorandum, dated 23 November 1993, wherei

advised that it would be prudent for I&SB to transfer the
below list of files to the Information Review Team (IRT).

2..__Im accordance with this memorandum, I&SB (3804)
Staf ord) transferred the below list of files, on 06
December 1993, to ?(C/IRT) via Barbara

(€20 Stafford). =
3. Therefore, as of 06 December 1993, I&SB considers
itself absolved of the responsibility as custodian of the
files. Conversely, as of 06 December, IRT assumes the
responsibility as custodian of the files.

FILES TRANSFERRED FROM OS/I&SB TO OS/IRT:

1. HT LINGUAL (BANJO) ...........- eee ences ~- 0119144

2.  WESTPOINTER . ec eeeeeeeee. 0583870
3. SR POINTER 5 ++ No case number visible
4, | FILE +. No case number visible

5. PROJECT INDIAN ..............0.. No. case number visible
(Continued on next page) ;

WARNING NOTICE cL BY 0701140)
INTELLIGENCE SOURCES DECL OADR
OR METHODS INVOLVED DERV FRM COV 1-82

CONFIDENTIAL


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

(Continued)

6. HT LINGUAL ........... peewee cece e 0090079
7. SR POINTER/OS PERSONNEL . case number visible
8. HT LINGUAL 2... 2c cee ce cece cence cee eee ee ee. 0090079
Ce PROJECT HT see eee ee 0090079
10. HT LINGUAL eee eee ee 0090079.
11. SR POINTER

12. SR POINTER eeee

13. SR POINTER eee e eee ee ee 0119144
14. SR POINTER wee e ccc ee eee ee 00119144
15. WATCH LIST »No case number visible
16. HT LINGUAL

17. DC SURVEY

18. PROJECT DAYLIGHT ........... eee cece e eee 0243550
19. SR POINTER (CUBAN WATCHLIST) .No case number visible
20. HT LINGUAL (BANJO) .........--eeee eee ee eee ee 0119144
21. HY LINGUAL ..........% «No case number visible
22. SR POINTER (BANJO) .... eee eee ce ee 0119144
23. RADIO AMATEURS IN USSR ...... No case number visible
24. FANFOLD CODING SYSTEM. ........see eee ecce cece 60090079
25. SR POINTER (MAPS) ........ No case number visible
26. RADIO MOSCOW ......... eee eee ee eee e es 0094866
27.. PROJECT CHAPERON ... wees -0099358
28. SR POINTER ........... . case number visible
29. MAIL INTERCEPT PROGRAM........No case number visible
30. SR POINTER ......ecceececsccccecccerceccee es 20090079
31. - PROJECT OUTLINE CHRONO/SR POINTER ...........0077826
cy eer eR TI nee eee eee 0156003
33. iS POST OFFICE LIAISON sees case number visible
34. SSD MAIL COVER ...............No case number visible
35. PROJECT SETTER ......ceeccccccececercecceees 0159144
36. SR POINTER/REDSKIN ...........No case number visible
37. SR POINTER ........... «+e+e-.+-No case number visible
38. OS PROJECT POINTER ...........No case number visible
39. RECORD OF BANJOES ............No case number visible
40. SR POINTER/HT LINGUAL ... case number visible
41. SR POINTER ....... seecoee case number visible
42. HT LINGUAL case number visible
43. SR POINTER ........... see e cece e cece eee e 20090079
44, ORIGINAL SR POINTER -No case number visible
45. SR POINTER/BANJO ... ele ete ee eee e 0119144
46. SR POINTER/BANJO ... -0119144
47. SR POINTER/BANJO ........-2.e-eeeeee 0119144
48. HT LINGUAL ......... eee eee eee eee 0119144
49. SR POINTER .............22200- No case number visible

(Continued)

CONFIDENTIAL


50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.

CONFIDENTIAL

PROJECT HT LINGUAL .. - 0090079
PROJECT SR POINTER . - 0077826
SR POINTER « -0093466_
SR POINTER see e ee cceccee es 60093466
SR POINTER ..... -No case number visible
BANJO ....sseceee -No case number visible

- -No case number visible
gui Hee eee .No case. number visible
STOLEN AGENCY CREDENTIAL... «No case number visible
SR POINTER ...cccccccwccccccccccsccscacoce «-.0090079

‘OS7IESB

——
Barbara Deavers/

“OS/IRT

CONFIDENTIAL


C/IRT
(620. “Stafford i

no
foie que on ihyop 4
ptewivae 45, fb meactl
Rice 4905 tht contin
Syke a DO's EG, HO He

Ayrys Fok BN fo dita the

pt nw ds prod oe Jy the $45.

Ban He whan, An can .
end te protest” to Mow yor
ta be pthode thus files, Prot

14.Please call when
signed. Thank you.

2am G19 om MEMOS []sscuer [x] conmmennan [7] INTERNAL [7 uncrassimep


CONFIDENTIAL

23 November 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR: OS Legal .Advisor
6N20 Stafford Building >

FROM:
Chief, Information Review Team
Office of Security

SUBJECT: Removal of SRPOINTER Files from (3S04 /

Stafford; (I&SB) to (G20 Stafford 7(IRT)

1. .Per a telephonic conversation with of
the 0S/Investigations and Services Branch (I&SB), this memo
will formally request.a transfer/relocation of the noted
SRPOINTER files to OS/Information Review Team (IRT).

I&SB'is currently holding the SRPOINTER files as

? formerly an I&SB Security Officer, served as
i it, as well as for his historical perspectives
of the files. s since retired and it has been
informally agreed that ‘IRT will serve as the focal point
holder of the files.

3. A formal transfer will serve to alleviate I&SB's
role as an "intermediary" in the occasional to frequent use
of the SRPOINTER files for IRT's formal responses to Freedom
of Information and Privacy Act requests. Additionally, as
IRT serves as the focal point for other public and Agency
‘requests, it is necessary to reference these files.

4, Your concurrence is required per C/I&SB
instructions for a formal move of the SRPOINTER files from

(3804 Stafford;to (620 Stafford:

Steg
ke Sk a ow ae
Concurrence: —
>
WARNING NOTICE cL BY
INTELLIGENCE. SOURCES DECL OADR
OR METHODS INVOLVED DERV FRM COV 1-82

CONFIDENTIAL


13-00000

Le . ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL
c USE ONLY

“ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

‘SUBJECT (Optional)
Request No. CIA-16 from JFK Board

‘NO.
FROM Barry Harrelson 8197-210

Historical Heview Group/CSI
(2E20

9 May 1997

‘TO coticer designation, vom, and building) COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

towhom. Draw a fine across column after each comment.)

1. John Pereira, C/HRG
(2E20 IPB /

CAMB, OPS
(1812 Statford )

5 J. Bary Harrelson
CSIMHRG.
(220 IPB) 1

&

13.

14, ae |

FORM 619 (EF) USE ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL
ie basta USE ONLY


ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

CSI 97-210
9 May 1997

in ad -
MEMo®ANDUM FOR: Chief, Information Management Branch
Office of Personnel Security

VIA: Chief, Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence

FROM: gd. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence

SUBJECT: Request No. CIA-16 from JFK Board

REFERENCE: A. Memo for C/IMB, dtd 27 Feb. 97,
Same Subject
B. Memo for DA/DO IROs (CSI 97-062),
dtd 31 Jan 97

The following actions need to be taken to complete the
Agency's xesponse i isi JFK Board's

a. Response to Request: CIA has to provide an official
response that will become a part of the public record. The
response should be a releasable version of your memorandum of
27 February 1997; according to the classification markings, most
of the text is unclassified. I recommend that you send me an
annotated copy indicating what can be released. I will prepare
the response and coordinate it with you. Also please review the
attachments to the memorandum for possible release. The JFK
Board may consider documentation of the destruction of
potentially relevant files as assassination records. _HRG will
handle any additional coordination (OGC, DO, etc.) required.

b. Transfer of Oswald's OS File(#0351164): The original
Office of Security subject file on Oswald currently held by the
Office of Personnel Security should be transferred to the
Historical Review Group. The file will be incorporated into the
Agency's JFK Assassination Collection and reviewed for release
under the JFK Act of 1992. Most documents in this file will
probably be duplicates of documents in the HSCA sequestered
Matexial held by HRG, however, under the JFK law all “Oswald”
fil aie considered assassination records. The ARRB staff has
asked for access to the file when practical.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Request No. CIA-16 from JFK Board

~ecs Defectors File (#0341008): The ARRB staff has requested
acces*to the parts of the Defector File that contain the Oswald
documents, items a-f, listed in your 27 February memorandum.
(We were unable to locate documents “e” and “f£”" in the HSCA
sequestered collection.) Assassination- and Oswald-related
documents in this file will most likely be declared assassination
records. HRG will handle any third Agency coordination required.

Please let me know when it will be possible to give the ARRB
staff access to the files. The access is considered for back-
ground purposes only, and any notes taken will be reviewed by
your staff and HRG. If a file is considered sensitive, access
can be restricted to one ARRB staff member and monitored by your
staff. The review can take place either at your office or in
HRG. If you any questions, please give me a call, secure 31825.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


eee uo. ADMINISTRATIVE ‘- INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Request No. CIA-16 from JFK Board

DG@¥/ESI/HRG/JBHarrelson:bas/x31806) (9 May 97)
g:hrg/req#160S.doc

Distribution:

Original - Addressee

1 C/IP&CRD

1 (Ginda Cipriany, occ
1 - C/HRG

1 - B. Harrelson

1 - HRG File

!
a

3

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


5 June 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Review of OS Records on LHO and Defectors

FROM: Gary M. Breneman, IC

1. Over the course of three half days, 29 May, 2 and 4
June, 1997 ARRB Staff member Michelle Combs reviewed the
Office of Security files on Lee Harvey Oswald and a multi-
volume file collection entitled “Defectors.” These were

made available by Janet EckIun@ in OS offices in
Stafford Building.

2. At the request of OS, the undersigned was present
during the review. Mrs. Combs took notes of items of
interest and _put yellow stickies on a number of documents.
She advised i eletaney that she (Mrs. Combs) would write a
memorandum on™ iad done and pass it to Mr. Gunn.
Further, she advised that Mr. Gunn might want review the
files personally.

. Be stated she would keep these files
segregated within her office for quick retrieval if we
wanted to see them again.

Gary Breneman



13-00000

fae
ey
3

\
L

27 October 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM: cklu ]
Chief, Information Management Branch
Office of Personnel Security

SUBJECT: OSWALD, LEE HARVEY
AIN: 0351164

1. The Office of Personnel Security was tasked on 31
January 1997 by the Historical Review Group/Center fdr the Study
of Intelligence (HRG/CSI), via the Directorate of
Administration/Information Review Office, with researching pre-
assassination files on Lee Harvey Oswald. The tasking was.
generated by the John F. Kennedy. Boord’s-desire to review and
declassify relevant material. The results of this réview were
forwarded to the WKG/CSI’on 27 February 1997.

2. During the Informa:ion Management Branch’ s
(IMB)research in response to “he. above tasking it was noted that
Volume V of the Oswald files tas’ not on the shelf where Volumes
I-Iv and VI-VII were located. , search of the entire area where
the volumes had been maintainey failed to locate Volume V. The
IMB Files Section was subsequently charged with conducting an
all out search for the missingivyolume. The search failed to find
Volume Vv.

3. In July 1997, the Oswald files were reviewed page by
page prior to being turned over to HRG/CSI and another attempt
was Trade to locate Volume V or to locate persons who might know
what happened to it. Volume V Was not located nor were any
persons located who were knowleageable of its status.

4. During the complete review of the Oswald files no

“time gap was apparent and no one was located who could recall

ever seeing Volume V. This would suggest that either Volume V
had been consolidated into other volumes or that Volume V never
existed, but that a numbering error resulted in what should have
been Volume V being labeled as Volume VI. The use of Roman
numerals on the cover of the volumes might have caused this
error to occur.


13-00000

‘Washington, D.C. 20505
24 December 1997

Dr. T. Jeremy Gunn

Executive Director
Assassination Records Review Board.
600 E. Street, N.W. (2nd Floor)
Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Dr. Gunn: eee
Paes
Re: Request for Additional Information and Records
No. CIA-16 (Oswald Pre-Assassination Files) and
No. CIA-IR-24 (Defector File)

This is a partial response to the ARRB‘s referent
request for pre-assassination files this Agency may have had
on Lee Harvey Oswald. It is believed the following comments
and two enclosed documents fully respond to the Office of
Security questions. The DO response is pending.

1. At Tab A is a 22 December 1997 memorandum
containing information from the Agency’s Office of Personnel

- Security which provides details about the files it had on

Oswald prior to the assassination plus when and. why they
were created. These-include the Office of Security file on
Oswald, a.general file on Americans who had defected to
another country and information about HTLINGUAL files

2. Also enclosed at Tab B is a 27 October 1977
memorandum from the Office of Personal Security which
explains the numbering of that Office’s file on Oswald. In
particular, it explains why the “missing” volume V may never
have existed.

3. An ARRB staff member has reviewed the Oswald
Security file and the file on American defectors.

4. The Oswald Office of Personnel Security file and
those pages of the defector file deemed relevant by the ARRB
staff member have been forwarded to HRG for review and will
be processed according to current release guidelines.

If you have any questions about this response, please

advise.
Sincerely,

J. Barry Harrelson

SRONS


13-00000

22 December 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

1. Pursuant to ARRB “Resquet No. CIA-16,the Office of
Personnel Security conducted research for and existing pre-
assassination files on Lee Harvey Oswald. The following
responses are provided to those questions which pertain to
the Office of Personnel Security (OPS). These responses are
the best reasonable answers based on available information.
Please note OPS was known as the Office of Security prior to
1 October 1994.

Question 1: Please identify, as specifically as
possible, each file held by CIA on Oswald at the time
of the assassination of President Kennedy.

Response: At the time of the assassination, the Office
of Security (OS) held two files which contained information
on Lee Harvey Oswald. One file entitled “Defectors File”
(#0341008), contained a reference to Lee Harvey Oswald, and
the second file was Office of Security subject file on Lee
Harvey Oswald (#0351164). This information was reflected in
the automated security database known as the Management Data
Program/Personnel Security (MDP/PS). These files were
originally miscellaneous files which were converted to the
above numbers circa 1964. A hand search was also conducted
of microfiche records which were superseded by the automated
system. This hand search produced the same results as the
automated search of MDP/PS.

2. Within the ARRB request is specific mention of an
HTLINGUAL file. MDP/PS reflects OS maintained four official
files under this project--#0077826. (an administrative file),
#0090079, #0093466 (a general file), and #0119144. All of
the HTLINGUAL files were destroyed on 8 April 1994 along
with numerous soft files. Since this material has been
destroyed, OPS cannot definitively state whether these files
contained any information on Lee Harvey Oswald. The search
of Oswald's name did not produce an index reference to any
of these files. Attached is all of the available
information regarding the destruction of the HTLINGUAL
files. This information was retrieved from the Information
Management Branch/Records Control Section and from a review
of general office administrative files.


13-00000

Question 2: For other than the 201-289248 file on
Oswald, please explain when each Oswald file was opened, the
purpose for the. opening of the file, and the documents that
were in the file at the time of the assassination.

Response: As noted above, all HTLINGUAL files have been
destroyed. Since OS files are usually set up in
chronological sequence, a search of files with numbers in
close proximity to those recorded for HTLINGUAL was
undertaken. This search revealed the approximate opening
dates for the four official HTLINGUAL files as:

#0077826 Opened approximately July 1952
#0090079 Opened approximately February 1953
#0093466 Opened approximately July 1953
#0119144 Opened approximately May 1955

3.  HTLINGUAL was a Directorate of Operations project
involving the opening incoming and outgoing mail destined to
and from the Soviet Union, China, Pakistan, and South
America. In the Office of Security this project was known
as SRPOINTER with subprojects identified as WESTPOINTER,
INDIAN, BANJO, and SETTER. The Office of Security actually
conducted the opening and monitoring of mail with the
acquired information being referred to the Directorate of
Operations.

4. The Defectors File (#0341008) was established circa
1950 for the purpose of recording information on US citizens
defecting to other countries and information regarding
foreign nationals considering defection to the United States.
This file contained information was from press clippings,
Directorate of Operations reporting, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the Department of State, and the various armed
services. The pre-assassination documents located in this
file relative to Lee Harvey Oswald are:

a. Washington Star press clipping of 26 November 1959
entitled “U.S. Defector to Reds Turned to Marx at
15”

b. Department of State memorandum dated 25 Gctober
1960 with attached list of American “defectors”
from May 1959 to October 1960

c. Memorandum for Chief/Security Research Staff dated
31 October 1960 from M. D. Stevens, subject:
American Defectors


13-00000

d. Memorandum for Deputy Director of Security dated
1 November 1960 from M. D. Stevens, subject:
American Defectors

e. Handwritten chart of defectors dated 26 August
1961

f. Defector outline prepared in October 1961 listing
known defectors to the USSR, Red- China, Cuba, and
United Arab Republic.

5. The index reference to the Defectors File
identifies a list dated 13 September 1966 which was known as
the Defector, Machine Listing. This listing was a computer
printout of defectors and provided limited biographic data
on each name. This listing was maintained separately from
the actual Defectors File; notations within the Defectors
File show the Defector Machine Listing as permanently
charged to the Security Analysis Group of the Office of
Security. Efforts to locate this listing or determine its
disposition have been unsuccessful.

6. Information regarding the purpose of “the Defectors
File was gleaned from a quick review of selected holdings.
An employee of this Office was, recalls the Defector Machine
Listing as being approximately one and one-half inches thick
and in two parts. One part consisted of an alphabetical ,
index of defector names with assigned numbers. The second
part listed the assigned numbers in numerical order and
contained the limited biographic data on each name.

7. The subject file pertaining to Lee Harvey Oswald
(#0351164) was established circa 1960. It appears this file
was created as a separate repository for the numerous press
clippings and reports received from other government
agencies on the defection of Lee Harvey Oswald to the USSR
and his activities following his return to the’ United
States. The first volume of this file appears to have been
preserved as the pre-assassination file, and the documents
contained in this file are as follows: Ee

a. Department of State telegram #1304 from Moscow
dated 31 October 1959

b. The Washington Post press clipping dated
1 November 1959 entitled “Ex-Marine Asks Soviet
Citizenship”


13-00000

Department of State Dispatch #234 from Moscow
dated 2 November 1959

Department of State telegram #1448 from Tokyo
dated 9 November 1959

Department of State telegram #1358 from Moscow
dated 9 November 1959

The Washington Post press clipping dated 16
November 1959 entitled “Rebuffed’

Evening Star press clipping dated 26 November
1959 entitled “U.S. Defector to Reds Turned to
Marx at 15”

Report Summary prepared by Soviet Russia Division
forwarded to Office of Security in March 1960

Department of State Instruction A-273 dated
13 April 1961

Department of State Dispatch from Moscow dated
May 1961 with enclosure of Oswald letter

Federal Bureau of Investigation report dated
3 July 1961 from Dallas, Texas

Note to CI/SI dated 28 September 1961

Form 745 “Indices Search Request” dated
12 October 1961

Department of State Dispatch #317 from Moscow
dated 12 October 1961 with enclosure

Form G-135a Immigration and Naturalization
Service name check form to Central Intelligence
Agency dated 5 December 1961

Navy Department message to Moscow dated :
3 March 1962: “

Department of the Navy memorandum to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation dated 26 April 1962 with
enclosure

The Washington Post press clipping dated
9 June 1962 entitled “Third American in 2 Months


13-00000

Leaves Soviet ‘Home’”

s. Federal Bureau of Investigation transmittal
of report from Dallas, Texas, dated 30 August
1962.

8. In addition to those documents listed above, the
following documents were located in a subsequent. volume of
the Oswald file and also appear to predate the assassination
of President Kennedy.

t. Undated summary of file information on Lee
Harvey Oswald

u. Incoming cable #83858 from Mexico City dated
20 July 1963 (no mention of Oswald)

v. Incoming cable #01325 from Mexico City dated
17 August 1963 (no mention of Oswald)

w. Incoming cable #36017 from Mexico City dated
9 October 1963

x. Outgoing cable #74830 to Mexico City dated
10 October 1963

y. Incoming cable #47041 from Mexico City dated
24 October 1963 (no mention of Oswald).

Question 4: To the extent that Counterintelligence
and the Office of Security maintained pre-assassination
files on Oswald, please explain why those offices
maintained files on Oswald prior to the assassination.
In answering this question, please make appropriate
references to the Clandestine Services Handbook (CSHB)
and to any other materials (including organizational
charts) that would help explain the jurisdictional and
organization reasons for which CI and OS would have
maintained such files.

Response: It is believed that OS holdings on ,Lee
Harvey Oswald began in 1959 with his travel to RusSia during
which he renounced his US citizenship. Oswald was in
contact with the American Embassy in Moscow, and the
Department of State prepared reports on these contacts.

Most likely because of counterintelligence concerns, the
Central Intelligence Agency was included in the distribution
of these reports. In the beginning this material was
probably retained in the Defectors File. As the number of


documents increased, a separate file was created to be the
repository of information on the alleged American defector.
There is a notation in the Defectors File that a separate
file exists on Oswald.

9. Both the Defectors File (#0341008) and the file of
Lee Harvey Oswald (#0351164) were handled by Marguerite D.
Stevens of the OS/Security Research Staff during the pre-
assassination time frame. Of the documents listed above, a
majority of them contain a notation or the initials of
Marguerite D. Stevens, leading one to believe she was the
officer responsible for the collection, analysis, and filing
of this information.

10. The Security Research Staff (SRS) was the
component responsible for collecting, developing, and
evaluating information of a counterintelligence nature to
detect and/or. prevent penetration of the Agency's
organization, employees, and activities by foreign or
domestic organizations or individuals. SRS conducted
research in connection with employee loyalty cases and
maintained records identifying personalities, environments,
and personal traits of individuals who had been of
counterintelligence interest over the years. SRS maintained
liaison with various government agencies in connection with
counterintelligence activities and coordinated the :
counterintelligence effort throughout OS. Using
organizational charts of this time period, SRS reported
directly to the office of the Director of Security.

11. A representataive of the Office of Personnel
Security /Management Staff was queried regarding the mission
and functions of SRS during the pre-assassination time
period. He made inquiries relating to the above request,
and the OPS/Information Management Officer retrieved retired
policy records for review. The information on the mission
and function of SRS was retrieved from the archived Office
of Security administrative and historical files as well as a
review of the security file on Marguerite D. Stevens.


13-00000

a

16 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Ms. Laura Denk
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM: Jd. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT: CIA-16, Oswald Pre-Assassination Files

1. This is further to my letter of 24 December 1997 in
response to referent request.

2. That letter, was a partial response which provided
the Office of Personnel Security’s information. The
Directorate of Operations’ (DO) response was still pending.
The DO response was provided on 2 September 1998 and it is
attached.

3. Please note that both responses are contained in the
Agency's Compliance Declaration dated 2 September 1998 at
Attachment V(2).

4. This completes the Agency’s action on CIA-16. If
you have any questions about this matter, please advise.

Sincerely,

Encl. A/S


13-00000

DO Response to Board Request CIA - 16
Oswald Pre-Assassination Files

The Directorate of Operations reviewed the DO
xecords to determine if there were any additional files
containing pre-assassination records relating to
Oswald. Research identified a document in the Oswald
201 which appeared to be a file inventory. The
document identified CI Staff as the file custodian.
cIc has confirmed that all CI Staff holdings were
incorporated into the 201.

Prior t6 establishing a 201, any documents received
would have been placed in an operational interest file.
We found no reference to the existence of an
operational file. If such a file had existed, however,
it might not have been registered in the central index.
It was standard procedures that upon opening a 201, the
documents from an interest file would be transferred to
the 201. = :

Given that Oswald was a subject of the HTLINGUAL
operation, it is reasonable to believe that there was a
file on him. We destroyed all of the HTLINGUAL files
under court order, and no record was made of what files
existed. We did not review all of the DO record system
to’ destroy all copies of matérial which may have been
derived from HTLINGUAL material. We know, for
instance, that there are HTLINGUAL items related to
Oswald in the HSCA sequestered collection

In sum, the 201 on Oswald contains all the
information we are aware of that we had prior to the
assassination.
