F 1992
INATION RECORDS ACT 0}
“qo4-10181-10177, [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSI

104-10181-11

> .

OUTGOINT MESSAGE

2
i Sena convent omar 70-
beerstgaeiacguteateets tnt soeceeeer erasers eae “ee eae
OnF oO oO a 2 a a oO 1
are rue mower on ‘crane rereenca meee
30373 Seseas > Bamiaae 27h

5 fp sayfa Ase

a ; 0

7 frie C Cr F, efexfre > bcpro . :
TO:/ PRIORITY FEDERAL BUREAU OF NVESTIGATION.Y

ATTENTION? INTD=CI/3 eee

CIR-316/03446-27
°
SUBJECT: RESPONSE TO Fer REQUEST CONCERNING VECIANA'S REL

r GITH CIA
——
2. WITH REGARD To YOUR REPORT oF YOUR INTERVIEWS ON & AND 33

APRIL 1927 WITH FELIX ZABA L A MAS AND TO Your ORAL QUESTIONS
TO US CONCERNING STATEMENTS MADE BY HIN ABOUT VEC TANA IN
THOSE INTERVIEUS, THIS AGENCY MAS REVIEWED ITS FILE ON ANTONIO CARLOS i
VECIANA BLANCH. = ASSTATED TO YOU ORALLY at OUR MEETING oN 33
APRIL 3977, THIS AGENCY HAS NEVER HAD A CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIP WITH
VECIANA ACCORDING TO ouR RECORDS, VEC TANA CONTACTED
THIS AGENCY ON THREE OCCASIONS TO DISCUSS HIS PLANS TO ASSASSINATE i
FIDEL CASTRO. on THESE OCCASTONS, OUR OFFICERS LISTENED To :
YVECIANA But EXPRESSED NO INTEREST IN AND OFFERED NO ENCOURAGE=
NENT To HIn AND NEVER RECONTACTED HIN ON THIS MATTER. THESE CONTACTS
OCCURRED IN HAVANA IN DECEMBER, 1940, AND IN NEW YORK CITY IN JULY
2562 AND APRIL 25bb. THERE ARE NO INDICATIONS IN THE FILE THAT:

oe i
unit: |
ext: fi
Berd S26 * [RECORD Copy ] ern tng 62
sn matcroneyoma rane rcmemame “EE oe
SECRET : é * manae He
TO CIA
ETUTG Use
Rel

po


ae UVIGUING MESSAGE

sonar Centen use omar

onF oO o oO oO o Cn

SECRET
tenet meme nocaroe oare-nes enone on
peeetiite: CIA
“ONE: INFO. FILE gq 4 more “ONSSEM BY:
ee : —
O20 u OD mnmro PER

Dome #

{A} ANY AGENCY OFFICER IN CONTACT WITH VEC IANA EVER USED

___ALTASES ‘OF MORRIS BISHOP BLAIR OR KAILS OR {8} ANY AGENCY OFFICER

IN CONTACT WITH VEC IANA WAS NAMED BISHOP, BLAIR OR KAIL.
ACCORDING TO OUR RECORDS, VEC I AN A “NEVER RECEIVED ANY FUNDS
FROM THIS AGENCY.¥

2. AGENCY OFFICERS WHO SERVED IN HAVANA REMEMBER THAT THERE
WAS A MAJOR OR COLONEL K ALE ORK AIL IN THE MILITARY ATTACHES :
OFFICE IN THE U.S. EMBASSY PRIOR TO THE BREAK IN RELATIONS. ALSOa E
ONE OF OUR OFFICERS IN HAVANA WHO LEFT THERE IN THE SUMMER OF 1959 '
HAD THE FIRST NAME OF BLAIR.¥

3. SECRET/UARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM. CLASSIFIED BY 012034. EXEMPT ‘
FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE CF £€.0- 11b52 EXEMPTION CATE=
GORY SB{2}. IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICA~
TIONed
LA COMMENT: FBI OFFICIALS HAD PROVIDED COPIES OF THE DEBRIEFINGS OF
ZABALA MAS AND HAD ORALLY REQUESTED CIA COMMENTS RE THE AGENCY'S RELA-
TIONSHIP WITH VECIANA.

OATE:
one:
UNIT:
ext:

cuseecanon REPRODUCggyt BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING
aareeees OOUCgg*

SECRET



ag

1p

onr oo

SECRET i
wrssser nena este sa snoe on se tasaenertnrce anes
; + CIA
ae ie te O = basta on
OILY alte
\ Dome #

CABLE SEC: _PLS RROVIDE COPIES TO IP/AN FOR FILING IN, 201-3129b6
AND 203-802843. meri

03
ORIG: LA/COG/EXTLE Grrejp X23257% COORD! C/LA/COG “Gea.
C/LA/OPS Ke ay > AGC/DDO or] dy C106 Crean, SA/DOs0
Bons AUTH? [C/A Glades REL? C/PCS/LSN.Siaeen L, Kohn

salele ne, j
pena Drseb.\ on Loh

pare: és APRIL 192703, cneef linge ig a

omc: [HORACE SPEEDERCU 7

ont: "TASCOG/EXEL accrovott ae) mie + ae y

et: 4325 Cy C77
By Praetes of fon Mee ee ae em — Ro qits

Prcdoai, Wd cca Co > 7 7

crrcs sie al crugrops fees 2—] ai Fer

cusnenaten REPRODUCTION By OTHER THAN THEAGSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBTTED — 2 IMPDET -

SECRET i ee aul ct BY: g2934
