yap ten ,
|104-10302-10020

| }

ROUTING TOP SECRET 3”
NAME AND ADDRESS DATE [INITIALS (Security Classification) :

CONTROL NO.

copy...

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to
those approved for the following specific activities:

| A
| NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP_SECRET

| we (Security Classification)

[Lhd hthtttt tt tf

Aa BMRA VWBAARAARBARARAAAY

\


13-00000

DISSEMINATION CONTROL ABBREVIATIONS

NOFORN- Not Releasable to Foreign Nationals

NOCONTRACT- Not Releasable to Contractors or
Contractor/Consultants

PROPIN- Caution-Proprietary Information Involved

ORCON- Dissemination and Extraction of Information
Controlled by Originator

REL... This Information has been Authorized for

Release to...


13- 00008,

LL Le
ie - TOP SECRET¢“ 47%

NOFORN
copy xo. 1 a7

SC NO.90555/63

N

\ 6 December 1963

DAILY

2

| CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODE WORD MATERIAL

Excluded

NOFORN

SSS. doo doa Dd da. aDAD ADD AD DD DD DD DDD DD DD DDD DD DDD DD DDD DDD dd D> D DD D> D> DDD DDD DDD dds

TOP SECRE
LEE EEE



|

TOP SECRET DINAR

DAILY SUMMARY

6 December 1963

This summary of significant information has not been coordinated
outside the Office of Current Intelligence. It does not representa

complete coverage of all current reports received, nor does time
permit the complete evaluation of all reports which are included,

CONTENTS

MILITARY DEVELOPMENTS:

An intercepted Cuban military. message of 5 December indi-
cated that the Cuban armed forces are giving courses in
chemical warfare defense. (Page 1)

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS:

Moscow press reports the'OAS meeting on Cuban arms ship-
ments. (Page 1)

\CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION:

Apparitions of Santa Barbara have been reported from Oriente
Province. (Page 1) g
°

TheGortugness ambassador) in Havana reports his impressions
of the reactions to President Kennedy's assassination. (Page 2)

Two government soldiers were killed in southern @riente)
Province when a dice game, involving military and civilian
personnel,. was uncovered and fired upon by troops from(Unit 24
1948.) (Page 3)

Dolores Ibarruri,.secretary general of the Spanish Communist
Party, arrived in Havana from Moscow on 5 December, accord-
ing to press reports. (Page 3)

CUBAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT:

Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, minister of INRA, has expressed
serious dissatisfaction with Cuba's current agricultural
situation and revealed that he disagrees with Castro's
emphasis on "ultimate aims" in place of current "tactics."

‘Rodriguez: also informed the British ambassador that he had

i

TOP SECRET DINAR :


(PR)

TOP SECRET DINAR

(CUBAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT - cont'd

I
'
|
4

opposed the Second Agrarian Reform Law and is willing to
use "doctrinally unwelcome" measures to increase production.
(Page 3)

Cuba is taking further steps to improve its fishing industry,
including several construction projects in the Chuyima ship-
yards in the Almendares River, the launching of 18 fishing
boats, and the sending of an (official mission) to pain)in

connection with the fishing Industry 24 (Page 4) il

INSURGENCY AND CIVIL UNREST:

Counterrevolutionary elements apparently attacked an obser-
vation post on Cayo de Cristd on a recent undetermined date.
(Page 4) to

A suspected counterrevolutionary was arrested on 3 December
in (Guantanano.) (Page 5)

(Q
CUBAN FOREIGN SERVICE:

The Cuban ambassador to the USSR is in Havana for a short
"vacation." (Page 5)

| CUBAN _AIR FLIGHT CONNECTIONS:

1
|
|
i
|

The Soviet-made AN-12 transport plane being ferried to Cuba

: reached Recife, Brazil, on 5 December, and left there for

its last stop before it is scheduled to arrive in Cuba on
7 December. (Page 5)

! SHIPPING SUPPORT FOR CUBA:

The US Embassy in Beirut believes that Lebanon may act to
curtail the use of its ships in the Cuban trade. This
would result in a significant decline in Cuban shipping
in free world bottoms. (Page 5)

| CUBAN - CHINESE COMMUNIST RELATIONS:

Wang Yu-ping has been named the new Chinese Communist am-
bassador to Cuba. He is a senior diplomat, but not as high
ranking an individual as the recently appointed Chinese
Communist ambassadors to Algeria and the UAR. (Page 5)

BLOC ECONOMIC RELATIONS:

A Bulgarian.arms negotiator has returned from Havana to Sofia.
(Page 6)

ii

TOP SECRET DINAR


ee TOP SECRET DINAR

| BLOC RELATIONS:

| A four-man Soviet delegation to revise social science cur-
i riculum at Havana University.has arrived in Havana.
(Page 6)

NON-BLOC COMMERCIAL RELATIONS:

The US consul in Antwerp has been informed by the Varmi
| Company of Brussels that it will not sell construction
equipment to Cuba; there have been reports that such a
sale, perhaps totaling $1 million, was being negotiated.
Meanwhile, a Cuban group, which had probably planned to
complete negotiations on the sale, was delayed because
of lack of visas. (Page 6)

The US Embassy in Tokyo sees little hope of inducing the

Japanese Government to interfere with the implementation

of a contract under which Japanese private firms have re-
portedly agreed to purchase 325,000 tons of Cuban sugar.

(Page 7)

The director of a Spanish optical firm has gone to Havana
to negotiate the sale of movie projectors; he is being
| sponsored by CILASA. (Page 7)

NON-BLOC RELATIONS:

A Cuban good-will mission was received by the Moroccan
acting foreign minister; the US Embassy believes this

| may presage the official re-establishment of. diplomatic
I relations. (Page 7)

The Swiss ambassador believes that Frank Emmick's trial
will be held shortly after the completion of the current

t OAS investigation of Venezuelan charges against Cuba;
Emmick's preliminary hearing has been completed and the
(rece) ig trying to find a Cuban lawyer to defend him.
Page

| The government of Trinidad gave a "chilly reception" to a
visiting Cuban official and turned down a suggestion for
trade talks, at least for the present. “(Page 8)

\

a SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES:

i 24. 10,

| The (Chilean dabassy) in Havana) has received information from
so es in Cuba it “considers’reliable which supports

aid

TOP SECRET DINAR



13-Q0000

TOP SECRET DINAR

CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES - cont'd

Venezuelan charges that Cuba has been shipping arms to
South America. (Page 8)

Havana Radio announced yesterday that pro-Castro guerrillas
in the Dominican Republic have established."six operational
zones"; Cuban exiles in Miami feel that the failure of pro-
Castro terrorists in Venezuela may force him to turn to
terrorism in the Dominican Republic. (Page 9)

Cuba is reportedly making preparations to recognize a Vene-
zuelan government-in-exile, according to information re-
ceived by an official service from a fairly
reliable source with ¢ aati dee lavana. (Page 9)

The OAS Investigating Committee which is looking into the
Cuban arms cache discovered in Venezuela does not intend

to limit its investigation to the cache, but has expressed
interest in looking into other evidence of Cuban activities
directed against Venezuela. The Venezuelan Government has
agreed to furnish all possible evidence on its complaint.
(Page 10)

On 5 December an American woman told a minister in New York
that her boy friend had left that day for an unknown desti-

nation in Central America from which he planned to fly in
a pro-Castro Venezuelan coup on Saturday. (Page 10)

iv

TOP SECRET DINAR


TOP SECRET DINAR

\MILITARY DEVELOPMENTS:

An intercepted Cuban military message, of 5 December
‘indicated that the Cuban armed forces are? biving instruction
‘in defense against chemical warfare, An-:(inidentified)mili-
tary unit a Villas) Province reported the selection of
two officers four sergeants to attend a "chemical defense
course." (USN-856, 2X/SL/C' 'T407-63, 6 December, SECRET SABRE)

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS: a4 a4

Moscow has given rather standard treatment to the OAS
‘meeting which heard the Venezuelan Government charge Castro
with illegal arms shipments. On 4 December, TASS correspond-
ent.. Leonid Shokin reported that "the weavers of plots against
revolutionary Cuba are still at it...accusing it of delivery
of arms to Venezuela for ‘subversive purposes'." Shokin found
“certain US circles are the most interestec’in this, as is
levident from the fact that representatives of the US State
Department declared at the meeting that the United States
would ‘firmly support' additional economic and diplomatic
\sanctions by the OAS against Cuba." He thought it unexcep-
tional that "these provocative attempts were not supported by
, the largest Latin American countries" and warned that "such
‘attempts to interfere in Cuban internal affairs are fraught
\with extremely harmful consequences for the cause of peace."

_ (CIA/FBIS, Moscow, 4 December, UNCLASSIFIED)

“CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION:

: Several weeks ago there were CAS reports that the storm-
itossea peasants of Oriente looked on Hurricane Flora as the
vengeance of God--a God, who in the tradition of the Old
‘Testament's stern and sometimes vengeful Jehovah, had loosed
‘his fury on a people first seduced and now impressed by an
ialien regime. Now a report from the US Naval Base at Guan-
‘tanamo Bay provides yet another insight into the frame of mind
|of the Cuban populace. While the incidents pictured in this
|report do not necessarily reflect anything other than a com-
\bination of religious fervor and superstition, they are signifi-
‘cant to the extent that they reflect the unrest--and, perhaps
ja growing feeling of hopelessness and despair--current among

, the Cubans.

In any case, there are prevalent locally tales of St.
|Barbara's appearing several times to prophesy a change in the
‘regime or admonish errant youths to mend their ways. /Barbara,
‘virgin daughter of the heathen Diosorus, was beheaded by her
father near Heliopolis in 235 A.D. for embracing Christianity.
A fearful thunderclap is alleged to have greeted her execution.
| Symbolized by a windmill-like tower with three windows, the
| type 6f fortress in which her father was wont to confine her
-while he was absent from home, Barbara is the patroness of
‘artillerymen and miners.

-1-

TOP SECRET DINAR


13-09000

CIPS

TOP SECRET DINAR

CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION - cont'd

Sin the Church's calendar, her feast is marked on 4 Decem-
ber. Apart from her significance in the Christian ritual,
Barbara figures prominently in a neo-pagan cult known as
the Santeria. Devotees of Santeria regard themselves as
Catholics and believe that the names of the Catholic saints
are translations into Spanish of the Nigerian names of African
gods. Catholicism is viewed as the Spanish tribal version of
Santeria. The association between Catholicism and Santeria
is based on a largely superficial similarity between Catholic
saints and the pantheon of African spirit gods. Saint Barbara
is thought to be Shango, the God of War.7

According to one of these tales, a woman dressed in
martyr's red stopped a bus outside Guantanamo City on 25 No-
vember, stepped inside and berated the Castro regime. The
woman is alleged to have said that the Cuban people could
not live forever in such misery and to have predicted that
Castro would be taken from them sometime between 4 and 7 De-
cember. A imilitiaman passenger told her that she would be
arrested when the bus arrived in the city. When it had, she'd
disappeared. Continuing on to Caimanera, the bus stopped in
the town square with the same woman sitting on one of the
seats inside the vehicle. The militia again was summoned
and again the woman was nowhere to be seen.

On 26 November the same woman allegedly appeared outside
a school in Caimanera and admonished several children not to
thrown stones ata nearby shack. The children fled into the
school and the woman followed. Challenged by a teacher, the
woman said she was Santa Barbara and vanished. The next day
neither the teacher nor the children would return to the
school, though it subsequently has been reopened. (COMNAVBASE
GTMO, 01731/T1/JFK/3, 4 December, CONFIDENTIAL)

Fidel Castro was "frightened, if not terrified," by the
possi consequences of President Kennedy's murder, according
to thé(Portugues2 ambassador) in (Havana)? Cabling (gis government )24
on 27 November, the (Portugdese diplomat) lescribed what he called
“a large movement of troops" late on the Sfternoon of the Presi-
dent's death--"they were sent to take up positions around
Havana and the northern coast of the island." He found it sur-
prising that Castro "jumped into the arena to denounce insinu-
ations which were merely from news and nongovernmental agencies,"
but added that "it is the general opinion in.diplomatic circles 24
that the assassination will be the spring whith will unleash
passions and violent and blind hysteria of the American people
against Cuba and Russia and provide the excuse which up to now
was lacking.... There is talk again about the coincidence of
rumors concerning a crisis at the end of the year...." Finally,
the Gubassado} noted that "the assassination did not cause a
great deal: 6ficonsternation in counterrevolutionary circles in
the interior © (NSA, 3/0XPODYT1463-63, 5 December, TOP SECRET
DINAR) q wm

_2-

TOP SECRET DINAR


13-00000

6lpal

TOP SECRET DINAR

CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION - cont'd
>

Two government soldiers were kille tty southern (Oriente
Province on 3 December when members gf Unit 1948) at an uniden-
tified location within el ‘irst Army) area, uncovered and fired
on a dice game, which apparently included personnel from their
own unit. A 3 December message from military (unit 1948 to South 24
Sierra Maestra Sector Headquarters\stated that "when the players
attempted to flee, the soldiers c enced firing without orders,
causing the death of one unnamed ayer and the chief of organ-
ization and personnel of (Unit 1948)24 The message added that the
bodies and the "civilian and military prisoners" were being sent
to sector headquarters. (USN 835, 2/LR1 (CUMYR196-63, 5 December,
SECRET KIMBO) 99 ald

Dolores Ibarruri, "La Pasionaria" of Spanish Civil War fame
and secretary general of the Spanish Communist Party, arrived in

. Havana from Moscow on 5 December, according to press reports.

Ibarruri, who resides in Moscow, was invited to Cuba by Castro
during his visit to the Soviet Union. (The New York Times,
6 December, UNCLASSIFIED)

CUBAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT:

Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, minister of INRA, has expressed
serious dissatisfaction with Cuba's current agricultural situa-
tion and revealed that he disagrees with Castro's emphasis on
"ultimate aims" in place of current "tactics." In a long talk
with the British ambassador in early November, Rodriguez agreed
“with surprising enthusiasm" that the two main problems facing
Cuban agriculture were the lack of competent personnel to run
the appropriated farms, and the lack of consumer goods which
are necessary to stimulate production, especially by the remain-
ing private farmers. Rodriguez had advised Castro that there
were not sufficient agricultural experts to run the state farms
which had been previously organized, and he had counseled against
taking over medium-size farms (as the Second Agrarian Reform Law
did) until sufficiently trained and experienced personnel were
available; he commented on Soviet complaints about the low edu-
cational level of Cubans sent to the USSR for agricultural
training. Rodriguez said that despite his advice, Castro had
gone ahead with the Second Agrarian Reform Law for two "polit-
ical" reasons: to push ahead with the. progress of Cuba's
Socialist economy, and to destroy the support for counterrevo-
lutionaries which Castro believed existed among the "rural
bourgeois." Rodriguez thought it ironical that US pressure on
Cuba (presumably he meant aid to counterrevolutionaries) had
forced Cuba to seize lands faster than it would otherwise have
done. He also stated his belief that the seizure of mediunm-
size farms would lead to a drop for several years in many
branches of Cuban agriculture, particularly in market gardening
and dairy farming.

-3-

TOP SECRET DINAR


TOP SECRET DINAR

CUBAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT - cont'd

Rodriguez also agreed with the British ambassador that the
second problem facing Cuban agriculture was the lack of consumer
goods which were necessary to stimulate production. However,
Rodriguez said that Cuba was in a vicious circle: farmers did
not have incentive to produce because there were few consumer
goods available, yet such goods could not be obtained until
farm production had been raised. Rodriguez' main concern
seemed to be the scarcity of many consumer goods; in fact, he
admitted that he was willing to undertake temporary expediencies
which might help raise production, even though they might be
"“doctrinally unwelcome." . Rodriguez referred the ambassador to
Lenin's New Economic Policy, and made noiattempt to disguise his
disagreement with Castro's insistence on "ultimate aims" instead
of current "tactics." (British Embassy Havana, 13 November,
CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

Cuba is taking further steps to improve its fishing industry.
A Havana radiobroadcast reported the completion of several con-
struction projects in the Chuyima shipyards in the Almendares
River in Havana, including a pier 307 meters in length, a concrete
esplanade measuring 17,000 square meters with a capacity of 24
ships, two launching ramps, and the dredging of the Almendares
River in front of the pier, pending partial completion, as well
aS several minor jobs. It also reported that the shipyard has
launched 18 Lambda~-75-class ships; 14 more are expected to be
launched by January.z4 According to a:29 November intercepted
message, an Official mission) in con ection, with the fishing
industry was expected to arrive in dri n early December.
The @elegation),yas composed of (Jose Lavia)and(Juan de la Feob
Flores) (CIA IS 03, 6 Decemb 196 OFFICIAL USE ONLY; NSA
2x/0, Paes 83» 5 December, SECRET SABRE)

INSURGENCY AND CIVIL UNREST: 0
unterrevolutionary,ejements apparently attacked the (Selva
Maring) observation post at yo de Cristo) on a recent undetermined
date.~ A partially garbled message from (C entral Army Headquarters) fy
in(Santa Clara informed Gavana) that personnel in the observation
post 0 located on a cay? off (isabela de Sagua) "repelled the aggres-
sion and caused the flight of the attackers. /°. Ina probe of the
place by air, land, and sea, nothing more than some footprints
were observed." Because of the garbles at the beginning of the
message it is impossible to determine the time and nature of the
attack. (USN 856, 2/SL{CUN/R297-63, 6 December, SECRET KIMBO)

at WR

-4-

TOP SECRET DINAR


‘ INSURGENCY AND CIVIL UNREST - cont'd

TOP SECRET DINAR

2

_ An unidentified military!unit informed First Army Sector

E Headquarters t.Qayari Arriba) that a suspetted counterrevolu-
tionary ‘had beén arrested in(Giantanamo) 9 The suspect, militia-
man Esteban Mendez Almaquel,was arrested in-the home of Genaro
Moya on 3 December. Moya was identified as being implicated

in the counterrevolution and as an informer. (USN 835, 2X/

rt ae At hana 5 December, SECRET SABRE)

CUBAN FOREIGN SERVICE:

Carlos Olivares, Cuba's ambassador to the USSR, arrived
by plane yesterday in Havana for what Prensa Latina described
as a "short vacation." (CIA/FBIS, Havana, 5 December, UN-
CLASSIFIED)

CUBAN AIR FLIGHT. CONNECTIONS:

2

Intercepted| vil a¥iatios) communications indicate that
the Soviet-made AN-12 transport aircraft being ferried to Cuba
from the Soviet Union is adhering to its schedule. It arrived
at the Brazilian airport: of Recife from Conakry on 5 December
and left there the next day for Belem, Brazil. It is scheduled
to leave Belem on 7 December for Havana, The intercepts also
indicated that Jamaica has granted permission for the plane
to use Kingston as.a reserve,landing point in the event of
meee ty (USA-5L, 2/38, 'R894-63, 6 December, SECRET
KIMBO.

SHIPPING SUPPORT FOR CUBA:

The US Embassy in Beirut believes’ that Lebanon may act
to curtail the use of its ships in the Cuban trade. This would
result in a significant decline in Cuban shipping in free world
bottoms because Lebanese companies provided ten of the thirty-—
two free world ships which called at Cuba in October. The
Lebanese foreign minister planned to ask the cabinet for a pro-
visional measure whereby he. would be able to demand that all
ships carrying Lebanese. flag must call at Lebanon periodically
and report their destinations. He believed this would cut
the Cuban traffic quickly by 60 percent. Because US aid to
Lebanon is almost nonexistent, the US Embassy believes that
this Lebanese action would be prompted by motives of princi-
ple rather than fear of losing US aid, an action which is being
discussed by the US Congress. (Am Emb Beirut 520, 5 December,
CONFIDENTIAL)

CUBAN - CHINESE COMMUNIST RELATIONS:

A Havana Prensa Latina broadcast of 6 December announced
that President Dorticos has assented to the appointment of Wang
Yu-ping as Chinese Communist ambassador to Cuba. This is the
first information indicating that Ambassador Shen Chien, who
has served in Cuba since December 1960, is about to be replaced.
The new Chinese Communist ambassador is a 53-year-old senior
diplomat; since 1950 he has served three- to four-year terms as
Communist ambassador in Rumania, Norway, and Cambodia. He is
married and has two children.

35m
TOP SECRET DINAR


13-00000
ies os TOP SECRET DINAR

CUBAN - CHINESE COMMUNIST RELATIONS - cont'd

While he is, of course, a member of the Chinese Communist
party, he is not a ranking party member. He appears to be
a lower ranking person than newly assigned Chinese Communist
ambassadors. to such countries as the UAR and Algeria. The
earliest biographic references to him have him as a member of
the Chinese Communist Army in 1931. He subsequently became
an army political commissar and rose to the rank of general.
It is not unusual, however, for Chinese Communist diplomats
to be generals. He speaks Russian, but there is no informa-
tion that he speaks Spanish. For the last year and a half,
however, he has been stationed in Peiping and he could have
learned the language then. He accompanied Chinese Communist
chief of state Liu Shoa-chi on the latter's visit to Cambodia
last spring. (CIA FBIS Havana, 6 December, OFFICIAL USE ONLY;
BACKGROUND DATA: SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

BLOC ECONOMIC RELATIONS:

L.P. Kyuchukov, chief of the Engineering Directorate of

the Bulgarian Ministry of Foreign Trade, was to arrive in
Prague from Havana yesterday and fly on to Sofia today.

‘ Kyuchukov, who is thought to have negotiated Bulgarian arms
shipments to Cuba, was noted traveling between Havana and
Santiago de Cuba.on 21 and 23 November--the third time he has
been in Cuba since November 1962. (DIRNSA, 2x/0/Q0C T2810-
63, 5 December, SECRET SABRE) Q

BLOC RELATIONS:

A 4-man Soviet delegation, headed by USSR Deputy Min-

ister of Education Serafim Nikichev, arrived in Cuba on 5
December to spend a month "working on. the curriculum of
Havana University's School of Social Sciences." Nikichev
was accompanied by. "academicians" Aleksandr Smirnov, Vassiliy
Rayike, and Maria Filipova. The group was welcomed at Jose
Marti airport by the Rector and Deputy Rector of the univer-
sity, Juan Mier Febles and Mariano Rodriguez Solveira, and
the School's protocol specialist, Professor Pedro Canas. The
delegation's trip to Cuba is the first tangible result of
the Soviet-Cuban educational exchange agreement signed in. Mos-
cow two months ago. That agreement provides for the loan

: of Soviet academicians and educational administrators to

} Cuban schools, the exchange of students and instructors be-

’ tween the two countries, and the use of Soviet texts in Cuba.
(CIA/FBIS, Havana, 5 December, UNCLASSIFIED)

NON-BLOC COMMERCIAL RELATIONS:

The US consul in Antwerp has been informed by the Varmi
Company of Brussels that it will not sell construction equipment
to Cuba; there have been reports that such a sale, perhaps total-
ling $1 million, ,was being negotiated. (See Daily Summary of

: 7 and 13 November.) 6.

TOP SECRET DINAR

upd


TOP SECRET DINAR

NON-BLOC COMMERCIAL RELATIONS - cont'd

The director of Varmi confirmed to US officials that he
had been negotiating with a Spanish firm (probably CILASA)
for the sale of US-origin construction equipment; after being
informed that the material was destined for Cuba and having
been warned of the consequences of such a sale, the director
agreed on 2 December to stop negotiations, The US consul
comments that it is not sure whether the knowledge of the
eventual sale to Cuba or the fact of US. intervention in the
matter caused Varmi to stop the arrangements.

Meanwhile, a source with access to CILASA's files re-
ported on 28 November that a Cuban comission headed by Rene
Narbona of the Cuban tractor importing agency would be unable
to arrive in Brussels on 30 November because of inability to
obtain visas. This group had probably been scheduled to com-
plete negotiations for the :purchase of the Varmi construction
equipment. (Am ConGen Antwerp,29, 3 December, CONFIDENTIAL;
mp TDCS-3/566 ,653, 5 December, SECRET NO FOREIGN DIS-
SEW)

The US Embassy in Tokyo, in receipt of a report that
private Japanese companies have contracted for 325,000 tons
of Cuban sugar for delivery between July 1964 and June 1965,
sees little prospect of inducing the Japanese Government to
interfere with the transaction, The Japanese Government would
have difficulty intervening because of the general world sugar
shortage, the unavailability of sugar from other sources at
comparable prices, and the political problem which rising
sugar prices is causing the Ikeda administration. (Am Emb
Tokyo 1688, 5 December, CONFIDENTIAL)

The director of the Spanish firm Empresa Nacional de
Optica, Vicente M. Cabanillas Gonzalez, left Madrid for Havana
opa29 November: IBERIA Airlines flight, As reported earlier
(see Daily Summary, 11 October), Cabanillas is negotiating
throug) ILASA for the sale of a large quantity of movie pro-
jectors to the General Administrator of University Inspection
in Havana, According to a CILASA employee with access to
company files, Cabanillas' travel expenses are being paid by
CILASA, Cabanillas had hoped to get a Cuban visa which would
not appear in his passport, as he hoped to visit the US later.
He was unable to arrange this, however, and finally had to ac-
cept:the Cuban visa in his passport. (CIA, Madrid, IN 74453,
5 December, SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

NON-BLOC RELATIONS:

A Cuban good-will mission was received by the Moroccan acting
foreign minister on 2 December, according to information received by
the US Embassy in Rabat, The mission was probably composed of Antonic
Carrillo Carreras, Enrique Vian Audivert of the Ministry of Foreign
Trade, and Dr, Enrique Rodriguez Leoches, Cuban ambassador to Moroc-
co, (See Daily Summary of 29 November for recent Cuban-Moroccan
relations.) pit 2

TOP SECRET DINAR


zipl

TOP SECRET DINAR

NON-BLOC RELATIONS - cont'd

Despite the Moroccan announcement of its break in diplo-
matic relations with Cuba, the Cuban ambassador is still in
Rabat and attends functions he normally attended. The
chancery offices are open and the Cuban flag is flying.

This situation has been a source of some embarrassment to
the Moroccan Foreign Ministry. However, the US Embassy
believes that the reception of the Cuban delegation by the
Moroccan Government may presage the official re-establish-
ment of diplomatic relations. An officer in the Spanish
Embassy in Rabat believes this is entirely possible; he be-
lieves the Soviets are using their influence to keep the
Cuban Embassy in Rabat. The US Embassy also feels that the
Moroccan King may not feel he received sufficient benefit
to justify continuing the break in diplomatic relations with
Cuba. (Am. Emb Rabat 860, 4 December, CONFIDENTIAL)

The Swiss ambassador in Cuba was informed by the dep-
uty foreign minister that the preliminary hearing had been
completed for the US citizen Frank Emmick, who reportedly
will be charged with being a CIA agent. (See Daily Summary
of 5 December.) The ambassador believes that Emmick'’s trial
will be held shortly after the completion of the OAS inves-
tigation into charges by Venezuela of Cuban intervention in
Venezuelan affairs. Currently, the ambassador is trying to
find a Cuban lawyer to defend Emmick. He is considering the
lawyer hired by the Canadian Embassy to defend the Cuban
pilots Lippert and Milne, an attorney who handles Swiss Em-
bassy affairs, or a member of the Havana University Law
School faculty. (Am Emb Bern 363, 5 December, CONFIDENTIAL)

Prime Minister Williams of Trinidad. Tobago. gave a
"very chilly" reception on 4 December to a visiting Cuban
official, Robert Gerardo Sanchez, commer¢ial officer in the
Cuban Consulate in Kingston. A Foreign Ministry official in-
formed the US Embassy that. Williams was annoyed that Sanchez
had presumed on a scant acquaintance with him to visit Port-
of-Spain, despite advice from the government of Trinidad
that such a visit would be inopportune. Reportedly, the
prime minister turned down Sanchez' suggestion for trade
talks, on the grounds of Cuba's involvement with Venezuela
and Trinidad, Tobago's,delicate and difficult relations
with Caracas. He did not, however, close the door on such
discussions at some appropriate time in the future. The
government of Trinidad expects Sanchez to leave the country
soon, (Am Emb, Port of Spain.223, 5 December, CONFIDENTIAL)

CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES: 2u iy

In a message of 3 December, the| Chilean Embasey) in(Ha-
vena)reported to its Foreign Ministry~ information it had re-
ceived from "reliable sources" in Cuba on Cuban efforts to
ship weapons to Venezuela and other Latin American countries.

-8-
TOP SECRET DINAR


Gt

TOP SECRET DINAR

CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES - cont'd

z

the (nbassy)statea that "everything leads to the belief
that" the arms ‘recently discovered in, Yenezuela had come from
Cuba. According to one of the (Chilean Enbassy '9) sources, two
ships had left Cuba at an unspecified date enroute to British
Guiana with "packages consigned as machinery consigned to an
industrialist of known Communist tendencies whose property 39
adjacent to the Venezuelan border." Various of the (Chilean:
Embassy \eources “accept the rumor" that the arms aré of Belgian
and British (sic) make and that_the shipments have been made
from various Cuban ports. The (embassy) gport also expressed
the belief that Cuba not only nds anne ‘to various points in
South America, but also Cuban guerrilla leaders. (NSA 3/0/€LD/-
T1129-63, 5 December, TOP SECRET DINAR) 99

Havana Radio announced yesterday that. pro-Castro guer-
rillas have established "six operational zones" in the moun-
tains around Santiago and Puerto Plata in the Dominican
Republic. The Havana radiobroadcast credited the announcement
to "the first communiqué issued by the command." Meanwhile,
press dispatches from Miami report that most Cuban exiles feel
that the Havana announcement is an attempt to cover up the
failure of Castro ‘terrorists to stop Venezuela's presidential
elections last Sunday. Other exile sources predict that the
announcement and the setback in Venezuela mean:. that the Castro
regime will launch aconcerted terrorist campaign against the
military-installed provisional regime in Santo Domingo. Batista
Falla, leader of the Cuban exile Christian Democratic Movement
(MCD), said yesterday in Miami that the failure of terrorism
in Venezuela "has put Castro in a difficult position and damages
his chances in the rest of Latin America." He added that he
expects Castro to "make desperate attempts to picture terrorism
as successful, despite its miserable failure in Venezuela."

All reporting by the Dominican Government indicates that
its forces are in effective control of the areas of guerrilla
activity. About 40 insurgents of the outlawed pro-Castro 14th
of June Political Group (APCJ) are said to have been captured,
with only isolated bands yet to be apprehended. (UPI, Miami,
A-11,6 December, UNCLASSIFIED and Background Information, SECRET)

Cuba is reportedly making preparations to recognize a
Venezuelan government-in-exile, according to an official West
German service from a fairly reliable source with contacts in
Havana, Reportedly, the Cuban Foreign Ministry is consulting
the USSR and other bloc countries to induce them to recognize
this government-in-exile, The Cubans, according to the source,
do not expect the USSR and other countries to agree to this;
nevertheless, the attempt is being made.

-9-

TOP SECRET DINAR


13-90000 |

TOP SECRET DINAR

CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES - cont'd

Although this is the first report on the possibility of
a Cuban-sponsored Venezuelan government-in-exile, the Cuban
radio and press have been emphasizing the slogan that the
Betancourt government does not represent the people and that
the real representatives of the people are to be found in the
ranks of the Armed Forces of National Liberation (FALN). Ac-
cording to Cuban newspapers, Pedro Duno, a former professor
of the Central University of Venezuela, arrived in Havana to
join’ the "mission" of the FALN in Havana, (CIA Munich TDCS-
3/566 ,731, 5 December, SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

The OAS Investigating Committee which is looking into
the Cuban arms cache discovered in Venezuela does not intend
to limit its investigation to the cache, The group has no
intention to expand its study to cover domestic political as-
pects of the FALN or Communist Party activities; however, the
members expressed interest in looking into such aspects as
Cuban broadcasts inciting to violence, possible transfer of
funds from Cuba, training of Venezuelans in Cuba in subversive
techniques, and evidence of other clandestine arms shipments.
In addition to examining the arms cache, the committee also
voiced interest in hearing tapes of recent Cuban broadcasts,
examining transcripts of interrogations and documents seized
from captured terrorists, saboteurs, and guerrillas, talking
to Venezuelan authorities responsible for combating terrorism
and insurgency, and possibly interviewing some prisoners, In
a meeting with the €ommittee, the Venezuelan foreign minister
placed emphasis on vverification of the Cuban origin of the
arms cache, but also indicated his government would furnish
all possible evidence on the Venezuelan complaint that the
committee might want. (To Am Emb Caracas 485, 5 December,
CONFIDENTIAL)

An American woman told a Unitarian minister in New York
on 5 December that her "boy friend," a former RAF flyer and
soldier-of-fortune, has left for an unknown destination in
Central America from which he will fly in a pro-Castro coup
in Venezuela tomorrow, Dr. Walter Kring, minister at the All
Souls Unitarian Church, told a USUN official yesterday that
he had been approached by an American woman who asked him to
get her story "into the proper channels," The woman stated
that Iter friend left New York on 5 December by unknown means
for an unidentified location in Central America, He told her
that he would fly to Venezuela on 7 December in connection with
a pro-Castro coup which she would read about in the Sunday
papers,

-10-

TOP SECRET DINAR


TOP SECRET DINAR

CUBAN SUPPORT. OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES - cont'd

Dr. Kring said that he was impressed by the woman's utter
sincerity and normal behavior. He believed she was convinced
of the truth of her story and of the honesty of her friend,
The woman had apparently, at some earlier date, contacted the
FBI in connection with her friend's participation or knowledge
of a coup in Honduras. She later retracted her story because
she felt it seemed "too implausible and silly." (USUN, New
York 2376, 5 December, CONFIDENTIAL BACKGROUND USE ONLY)

ah es
TOP SECRET DINAR
