/o4-10180-10063. {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1

4

Filiverte Rybero

MSStuntr/ta, Xyport Br., CD/00 2270

,
yos 0 cs ;

John Sherwood f

c/FX . ‘This i9 on your old case on :

O62 mes Filiberto Ray, i

y6R


&

TA-294-65

fhe 7 April 1965

SUBJECT: Cuban Sxile Activitjés in the US -- Slection of
Governoe! ile

REF. : (a Case 42315
~ (bv) MUscelaneous Contributions of Filiberto Rivero

\
1, ‘The following, and the enclosure, presumably are of
interest to[John Shervood, WH Division, et al.

2. ‘The enclosure, for retention, is the edited results of
@ meeting dur: the late evening and the early worning of 24-25
Mar 05 between{Joe DeVanom\ of the LAFO and Fil Rivero. The latter
must be a familiar nave to those involved in Cuban activities. The
weeting was taped, transcribed and edited, all of which took much
wore time than had been anticipated; ergo, the delay.

3. In resupe, enclosure reports the background of various
attempts, or opportunities missed, to overthrow the Castro regime,
Rivero’s opinions of vhy they failed, and his intention of
initiating a final try. On the basis of encouraging responses
to a couple of spot radio announcements in Ios Angeles and similar
experiences in Miaat and New York, he has plans to poll all Cuban - n)

exiles in Southera California.in a rather vell thought out electio:
on Sunday, 25 Apr 65. Qualified voters will select some 20 or 60
anti-Castro Cubans from possibly 100 eligibles who, in essence,
will represent the Cubans in exile aad, vhen politic, a governsent
in exile. The enclosure seta out the mechanics of the election,
anticipated activities of the representatives in the US and in
Istin American countries, the formation of Cuban-latin brigades,
training facilities, and invasion preparations.

4, Since preparation of the above, Rivero advised on 7 Apr 65
that Prio has proposed an alternate plan for elections on 2 May
of a group of 25 people to be chosen f'rom a pre-selected 50, There
will be 16 nominees of political or revolutionary background from
vhich eight vill be elected; 10 from the “new generation" - 5 will
be chosen; 3 from 6 industry-comuerce nominees; and the same number
frou labor, the professions and the press, The nan with the greatest
nusber of votes will be the “Delegate of the exiles, patterned
Somevbat on Jose Marti's “delegate” status prior to the Spanish
Averican War. The recaining 24 will be his committee.

2ISK


IA-298-65
7 April 1965

5. Rivero regards the above as one more Prio device to
assure binself effective control of the exile novencnt's
operations, and the election a dishonest affair in that
voters really have no choice.

6. Rivero, despite Prio's plans, is going ahead with his
own 25 April balloting. He has since, with the help of former
Cuban jurists, wodified as follows the plan as presented in
enclosure.

a. Bach of the Caribbean Governuents willing
to-assist in providing facilities (when the dperation
gets to that point) will be’ invited to provide a
delegate vho vith the other Caribbean representatives
will constitute a Council of the Caribbean to sit
with the exiles’ junta, In sddition to being the
focal points for liaison, they will also have pover
to veto exile activity they believe not to be in the
best interests of the Caribbean. Appeal would be
through OAS for resolution.

b. If and vhen the exiles invaded Cuba, the
Junta and the Council would together oversee a
rovisional government until a constitutional
sembly could create a formal governuent,

7. Rivero is discouraged by Prio's plans as vell as by
what he suspects are efforts by elements of the US Government
to keep the exiles divided and to make impossible any organiza-
tion remotely resembling a governnent in exile or even - of exiles.
It is his intent, at least at the moment, to criticize Prio.
plans in his next radio progran.

8. In the event interested parties might prefer to hear
the tape in eddition to the edited transcript attached, we will
forward it.

- end -

Encl: Transcription of Tape by Fil Rivero



8

u Enclosure to
IA-298-65
5 April 1965

2. For your information, I am Filiterto Rivero, I ama citizen
of Cuba by birth; born 29 Aug 1913, and a permanent resident of the US ee
since 1949, I am warried to an American, have on Acerican daughter, and :
I've lived in California practically since I arrived in the US, except ‘
for two or three short visits to Cuba prior to 1959. At present I have
no political affiliations either in-@eha.or eleevhere, and I do not belong
to any organizations vhatscever. For a time, hovever, I vas President of
the Cuban Catholic Center in Ios Angeles, an archdiocesan organization
created to provide Cuban refugees vith a place to meet, and help each
other find jobs, ete.

2. Avout four years ago I started a lecture tour, prompted by
People like the Kivanis, Chambers of Commerce, etc., to try to explain
the Cuban situation, For the lest tvo years I have had a radio progrea
on Station KWKW, Pasadena, Sundays, 1900-1930. It's a sort of nevacast
of Iatin America called "Nuestra Anerica al Dia", or “Our America to
Date". In that program I do @ kind of resume of the important events
of the week in Iatin America, concentrating cn Cuba. Cuba is in the
headlines much of the tine, legitizately is important nevs and is the
source’ of {uportant news; Bleo I'm extreuely interested in the problems
of wy country. I should aleo say that I an a strong believer in the
Anerican system of government and wish that ay little country could
have done as vell, i.e., had a two-party system with elections every
four years, after which they would bury the political hatchets and go
to work. But it hasn't worked out like that. I have strong vieve on
some points of Averican politics. If I was a Republican I vould be a
Liberal Republican; if I was a Democrat I would be a Conservative
Democrat. ‘That's as close as I can describe my political thinking.

One final thing, I have never been in Jail and I've never been in
any trouble.

3. Now with that little background I should add that I have been
the only radio or TV voice in Los Angeles attempting to explain the ups
and dovns of Iatin Azerican politics and this has given me o bit of
Tecognition. Also since October 1964 on Monday nights, from 2100 to
2400, I have had a program with a Mexican, Roberto Iglesias, who is
an American citizen by convenience, in wy opinion, that is, and not
by conviction, although we are friends. We started a program of
telephone conversations in which people would call and comment on
any subject an rolitics -- national, local, or Iatin American -- as
they pleased. This program, which is also on KWKW, has enjoyed a
Yentastic and unexpected success, and it brought me to some additional



Enclosure to
LA-2y9-65
3 April 1965

prominence in the Latin community of Los Angeles. I eight say it
hes also unde we a center of controversy. I've taken sone strong
svipes at the Mexican Governuent because it did not go along with
the rest of America in breaking relations with Castro. By the sane
token, I have also taken sone rather strong avipes at certain areas
of the American Governuent for things done in Latin Anerica that I

feel vere grave mistakes.

4, I consulted beforehand, hovever, vith a number of people
on @ personal basis to know if I had the right to discuss American
politics, since I am not an Averican citizen. I vas told that this
was 8 free country, and that as long as I’ dido’t violate any lave
of the country I could speak on anything I pleased, and that it
would be judged in regard to good taste, or bad taste; but not that
I vas doing anything illegal. So, being respectful of Agerican laws,
I've taken advantage of the fact that I live ina free country, one
E like very much, because I think I'm doing sone good.

5. With reference to the Mexican comsunity, in general, it’s a

watter of orienting 4 million and 4 half people vho vere born with
@ hatred of the US. Most of those that come here from Mexico have
been brought up with a deep-seated resentuent ageinst the Yankee.

Our program has shown this to be tremendously strong and I wake a
special effort to tell them that the cause of their woes is not the
Yankee; it’s their om lack of education because thelr government

for many years has kept them in a kind of an intellectual serfdom.

So, I'm not popular with wany Mexicans, vho accept vhatever their
government says is good for then. I argue that you do not accept

the word of the government as the word of God; that you discuss

and argue vith your governuent if you don't agree, and that is vhat
keeps the administration on its toes, This 19 not the vay it vorks
in Mexico vbich is not a democracy, but a kind of a civilian monarchy
in wnich the monarch or the king changes every six years, but the
monarchy reigns on, that is, the Partido Revolucionairo Institucional,

the PRI. So much for Mexico.

6. Now, regarding Cuba. The reason I. wanted to have @ chat with
you is because there is somthing imminent as far as Ios Angeles is
concerned, und due to our fricndly relations I vant to inform you
beforehand so that you vould know from me and not from the press.

I refer to the fact that ve'ré trying to create what will apount to
@ Cuban Governnent in exile. This is aot news because it has been
going on for about three or four months, but vhat is important is
that I have jumped the gun on the leadérs in Miami, end au scheduling



“this has been the ao

Enclosure to
A-23-65
S April los

an election without their particular approval, but vithout their
Specific disapproval either, They have asked ue to vait and talk
to Dr. Prio and the other leaders in Niami vho are vorking on this,
but I refuse to delay any longer.

7. First, let's answer one question -- vhy a governnent in exile?
Well, everything else seeus to have failed, Since the Castro takeover
in Cuba the first big thing I can remember vas the Bay of Pigs. Well,
that story is pretty vell knom. The reasons vhy the Bay of Pigs
failed I think vere covered beautifully in an article by a Cuban
attorney entitled, "Decision for Disaster: At last The Truth About
The Bay of Pigs," in Reader's Dicest for September 1964. Up to now.
‘complete and factual article I have read on
the Bay of Pigs. I bave double-checked with many Cubans vho vere
involved and they tell we this account is absolutely accurate, except
for one point. It does not ssy why the Kennedy zdministration cut
dovn the second and third vaves ‘that were originally scheduled. The
information I heard from other sources is that there was a very heated
argument betveen Adiai Stevenson and President Xennedy. Stevenson had.
gone on record that the first vave of bombers that hit Cuba prior to
the invasion vere flown by defectors from the Cuban Air Force.
Apparently he did not know that this was part of the oversll CIA
operation, When he learned of this, I'm told, he yot very, very
upset, being a nan of great pride, and that in his rather strong
argument vito President Kennedy about the point, he threatened to
reveal the vhole plot in front of the vorld and resign as Ambassador
to the United Nations if there were any wore such bombings. I under=
stand President Kennedy feared a scandal, and gave the orders that
resulted in the Bay of Pigs disaster. I don't know if this 1a true
or not but I put it here because it makes a lot of sense and tends
to relieve the Averican intelligence groups of the blaue they've been
carrying on their shoulders since the Bay of Pigs invasion, but that's
beside the point,

8, The next big moment of Cuban hope of Liberation vas the
Octoder 1962 missile crisis. We all know what happened there, and
wany of us Cubans fee) that the administration made another grave
mistake because rany very important people in the adainistration
do not understand the mechanics of the Communist mind. At the time
in vhich the so-called eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation came abaut
the Soviets promised to take the missiles out, and to permit sone
international organization to inspect the island, etc. Of course,
the question is -- vhy did the Anerican Government retreat or lift

~3-


Enclosure to
: TA-2y8 -65
5 April 1965

the blockade vhen the moment of danger had already passed? I und
stand that many people in Washington and the administration felt
that Khrushchev had behaved like a good boy, had promised he would
take his missiles out imedistely, and disantle them, and that be
should not be pushed into a corner. It was felt that if he vas pushed
into a corner, possibly the Stalinist group in the USSR, prodded by

the Chinese, vould overthrov Khrushchev, and then the US vould have

to deal vith a uch tougher man and not good old Nikita vho vasn't

too hard to get along with. All he had done vas point a few atomic
wissiles at our heads. In any event, ve Cubans felt that if the
blockade had been kept on for another few weeks, or until the inspec-
tion had been made, this vould have been ao brutally shamfui to the
Castro regine that right then and there, chances vere good for an“———~~
interna. uprising vhile the United Nations or the OAS or the Red

Cross was there asking its inspection, At any rate, this vas a
fantastic opportunity that was micacd sy reasons which perbaps

history way be able to take care of, So, that was second ting”

that failed in the Cuben problea,

9. Toen, of course, ve can also mention the disaster of Miro
Cardona and his group vhich failed in the opinion of many people
because tiey were practically appointed ty the State Departoent.

At least, at that time, the State P=rartment scemed to want some
left-wing leaders to take over Cuba. There {5 no doubt that Cardona
could be cleeaified as a Socialist of sorts, or left-winger of sorts.
The disaster of Cardona was a result of the Bay of Pigs situation and
was @ very unpleasant thing. I think personally that Cardona conducted
himself wrong. If he had been brought into President Kennedy's confi-
dence, he should have respected that confidence and made a discreet
exit, but not the dig to-do he made vhich didn't accomplish anything
except to kill the hopes of other Cubans and to make President Kennedy
and Robert Kennedy very angry. Anyvay, Cardona’s group had the original
cin of not being a legitimate Cuban organization. Moreover, there is
another thing about his group which many Cubans have never forgiven --
that 1s that at the moment of the invasion they were practically locked
up by Agerican authorities someplace in Florida. They vere supposed
to be.allies but vere kept prisoners, I suspect the truth of the
matter is that the Americans who were running the show feared these
Cubana vould talk too much and that their being put avay for a few
hours vas just a roughshod vay of protecting them against themselves.
But this left & bad taste because it proved that the group was nothing
but @ puppet of the State Department, and Cubans proud of their
sovereignty and their nationaliom didn't like it at all.



closure to
TA-2y4-65
5 April 1965

10. The next point on the things that have gone wrong in the ‘
Process of Cuban Liverntion is the fantestir “operetta”, and I say
operetta because we could call ‘t a tragic comedy, of Manolo Ray
and his weanderingo arcund the Caribbean, I had been in Washington
in March 1964 ond in Miaei in Jacuary or February 1964 and I had -
done a lot.of talking, and interviewing, and investigating. When I
returned to Los Angeles, about April 19th, I gave a meeting of Cubans
@ full report of ay three-month trip on the referendum preparations \
going on in Miaai, and ay conversations in Washington vith sone State
Department people, with-Cuban ex-ssbassadors vho still live in Washing-
ton and a tremendous assortment of personalities. During ay report,
here in Los Angeles, one of the Cuban leaders asked ue vhat I thought
about Ray's promise to be in Cuba, fighting by the 20th of May. I
told him without any hesitation (and I have a tape of that meeting)
that there vas nothing to be concerned about or hoped for with Ray
because he vas going to be on soze convenient little island in the
Caribbean with a photographer and a few friends and that would be the ip
end of his promise to invade Cuts. But I was promptly abused by a
wenber of the Junta (JURE) because ke thought I was desecrating his
hero. I told him I didn't have anything egainst Ray but that I had
enough information to warrant ry saying that. Of course, vhen this
actually happened just a few weeks later vhen Ray vac discovered on
Cay Anguila, o British possessicn, I vas looked on with great respect
by the people at that meeting. My reascaing that Ray was going to be
found on an island was just the result of putting | few bits of informa- :
tion together and asking myself vhy Ray had made the rash promise in
1963 that he would be fighting in Cuba or be killed in the fighting.

This vas because of his famous, or fnfamvus, scheme known as the

Judas plan. The Judas plan to refresu you vas one vhereby the American
Government (when I say governpent I ocean precisely Robert Kennedy and
Perhaps his brother) vas to overtirov Castro just before the ckctions
of 1964. It came to te called the Judas plan because actually it was
not weant to change the basic type of governcent, just to replace

Fidel Castro with Manolo Ray. ‘Those ot’ us vho studied Ray wondered

how much diyference there vould te in the basic political philosophy

of Castro and Ray. I think thet ve can sa, without mlesing the mack
too far that Ray vould find a lot of support for this kind of thinking
in sove circles of the State Departoent and the Averican Governuent.
Then I had another reason to tnink that this Judas plan was real because
during my stay in Miami I learned that severai top officials of the
first nine months of the Castro coveranent, by then refugees theaselves,
had been contacted by people connected in sore way with others supposed
to represent the Ceatral Inteilisence Agency. Tnese furver officials



Enclosure
TA-268-05
5 April 190s

of the first year of the Castro government hod been asked if they
would consider taking their oli positions if and when there was a
Cuban government that vould be close to the original revolutionary
governvent -- in other words, Ray and his people. This vas before

the aosassination of President Kennedy. After the assassination,
which vas in Noveaber 1963, I vas in Florida and found that the vhole
Judas plan had disintegrated. The main reason for it vas to have
souething resdy in case it vas needed for a spectacular to give the
Averican people the feeling tbat its governsent had finally liquidated
Fidel Castro and then vould go out and re-elect the current administra-
tion. This whole operation is very involved, vould require hours to
explain, It was dubbed by wany the Judes plan because Judas vas the
apostle who betrayed his lord. So, let's go on to the next point.

11, Ray floundered and vas caught on Cay Anguila, in the Bakamas,
a British possession, and as we all know he vas fined for something
or other and let loose. Since that tine we haven't heard quch except
that he keeps going in and out of Puerto Rico, Miami, etc., but he is
laying low. As far as the Cubans are concerned, he's rinished. Let
we say as a little sideline to the Ray situation: Ina secret oceting
in Ios Angeles, Jose Estever, the JURE delegate, took an oath that Ray
was already in Cuba. Later, vhen Ray was discovered in Cay Anguila,
Estevez told his own executive group he had lied so that they vould
not lose their enthusiasz. The people vho had been with Ray in los
Angeles told Estevez that if lying vas a vay of life for JURE they
would back out, that they had left Cuba because Castro had lied to
them, and that they vere not going to take any more lies fron any-
body. This was the end of JURS and I have their document vhich is
extremely interesting, but this is uniwportant now.

12, Now, let's take a quick look at Manvel Artive, In the
opinion of 95% of the Cubans that consider themselves in the "know",
Artime 1s a puppet, attached to the strings of the CIA, He's fed,
clothed and maneuvered by CIA to its wish and nothing else. This is
@ general consensus in all Cuban circles, so Artime is not takea
seriously, Artive, however, is a very interesting person, he's
@ good speaker, and nice-looking, but I consider his thinking very
much @long the lines of Fascise.. When he travels he takes several
of his strong looking friends along, and when he speaks in public
places they seem to watch the corners, and look very nasty with
their insignias and all, I bad the pleasure of asking Artine vben
he addressed the -prestigious Association for the Economic Reconstruc-
tion of Cuba in Mismi in March 196!, if he was sure that he vas not
being used as a puppet for elevents in the American Government that

-6.-



Enclosure to
1A-26-65
5 April 1965

wanted to keep Cuba as a showplace in America to prove to the rest of
America how bad Comauniem was. This was one of the theorics oaking
the reumis in Washington, 1.e., the horrible example. To my surprise
and to hie, there vas tremendous applause. I've got that on tape too.
I asked Artive if he was net a traitor to bis country. Ue told oe
that a wan who had been condeaned to death and been in prison for

two years vas bard to deceive, vhich vas not an ansver, But it
sounied very nice and I didn't insist. Anyvay, Artive at this time --
we're talking now on March 2k, 1965 I hear, has just completely
dismantled his operation. Since the unpleasantness in Costa Rica
Which supposedly had to do with some contraband activities that
involved the brother of President Orlich of Costa Rica hiaself,
Artine's group has been dismantled. Most of his people are now in-
volved in another operation developing around Miaai and said to be
backed by the CIA or the Pentagon -- 1 don't know which. When I

vas in Miami in January and February 1965, I found that there vere
tvo groups of Americans handling Cubans. The CIA people vho vere
bandling one kind of Cubans and then the Pentagon, apparently, vas
waneuvering afother group. I really don't know how much truth there
is to this. I was told that the Pentagon people were at odds with
CIA end that they vere going to try and get their ovn group of Cubans
just to show CIA how it should ve done. Artime’s people have gore

to s group supposedly handled either by the Pentagon or by CIA.

13. ‘There is another thing that I just found out in the last
veek. Most of the people who were getting checks from CIA through
its different devices had been fired and that there vas a panic
arcuni Miaai. These people vho had been living and bringing up
their faailies with CIA checks vere suddenly left out in the cold.

I don't kuow how much truth there io in this either. I don't know
what Artine is doing nov although I talked to a relative of one of
Artize's close associates who told we today that there is a very
Jarse wove by the American Governuent inside of Cuba. In other
words, the ideas of invasions or hit and run, and all that seem to
be passe. Now the big thing is the assassination of Castro and the
insurrection inside Cuba by people who are discontent, that is, the
Castro followers the CIA has been able to reach. I understand there
has been a tremendous amount of work done in the last two years by
Averican agencies, and tremendous files compiled of vho in Cube could
be counted upon at certain times for certain things.

18, This is fine end dandy and who knows, maybe tomorrow we will
hear that Castro has been assassinated and that the CIA plan has already
dose vhat it is expected to do. I have only public information ard am



5 April 1905

not privy to any secrets either in the Azerican agencies or in the
Cuban higher echelons -- 80, I don't knev, I just hear rumors.

25. The next thing that kind of blev the air out of the Cuban
exiles vas the arrest of Menoyo of the Alpha 66, etc., group. Menoyo,
in the opinion of wany Cubans, 18 a political gangster and a doudle-
dealer. He has the confidence only of his ovn suall group of follovers.
Menoyo, from vhat I have teen told, junped the gun on. sovething else
that vas being prepared. His going into Cuba with three cther men
sounds pretty stupid unless Menoyo suspected or vas told that the dig
inside push vhich is called Ia Onda Avericana, the American Wave,
vas imminent, and he jumped the gun so that be could get lined up
before anybody else and take over the government. In my book Menoyo
is not terribly important and does not bave much of a following. He
has a few nice guys, but they're on the fringe of being crackpots and
dreamers, not bad, but mixed up in their winds and hungry for pover.
They call themselves revolutionaries but instinctively fear anything
that has a democratic process. They vant to take Cuba at the point
of 8 gun and keep it that vay. So Menoyo's capture ie another blow
to the Cuban exiles. Sven if they didn’: like hin, they said, "If
Menoyo opens up a beachhead in Cuba, ‘Viva Menoyo'! ve will go and
fight with hia!"

16. So ve lave Menoyo in his peaceful prison in Havana and
go to the last and saddest of the Cuban disasters in the exile
movement -- that is the complete flop of the RECS, the Representa~
tion of Cuban Exiles, As you know, I was deeply involved in the
foruation of this organization because I believed it had @ chance.
The quality of the wen behind this idea vere top people, most of
vhom I knew by firet nage, others I had crown up vith. The central
figure, Jose Bosch, head of the Bacardi Company, commands respect
and is 4 patriot. Hovever, RECE disintegrated a couple of weeks
ago. It might interest you to know that on 9 Jun 64, a few weeks
after the referendum was coapleted, I wrote a confidential, private
letter to Dr. Ernesto Freyre, who was one of the five ven appointed
by the comaittee and approved by a referendun of over 40 thousand
Cubans. I told Dr. Freyre, my old and personal friend, what, in ay
opinion, they should do to make RECS successful. I told hia that the
first thing was to ignore Washington completely. I said, “I don't
have anything against the Americans -~ but right now you head an
organization that has the approval of 90% of the Cuban exiles.

Use this moral support you have and try to create a real Cuban
outfit. If you do, you'll get the backing of the Bacanti Coepany
and the million dollars it offered at the start. Use it judiciously



Enclosure to
A265
5 April 1965

and create a strong, well-knit Cuban organization and don't ask
anything from the Avericans. Ask the Cuban people for contribu-
tions; there are over a hundred thousand vorking in the US. At
$5.00 @ wonth, which they could easily pay, you would have half a
million dollars a month to vork with. You can do a lot with a half
@ million dollars a month." But above all (I continue ay letter
from memory), don't go to Washington, just act as if the US Govern-
ment did not exist. If somebody comes to the office and wants to
know what you're doing, treat them courteously and give them all the
information they vant as far as the operation of the outfit. We are
living in the US asd I think that eny American officiel 1s entitled
to.know what is going on. But-as far as our om private plans for
the liberation of Cuba, they belong to the Cubans at this tice. Then,
I told Dr: Freyre, if you do this, you will then be able to deal with
the US Government on a completely different basis, not with your hat
in your hand. But if you have the solid backing of half a million
Cubans throughout the vorld you will cowmand the respect not only
of the American Government but also of the other countries of Iatin
Awerica. I told him I thought the RECE should evolve into a govern-
went in exile because that would be the logical thing, and the only
type of organizstion people would understand. What did they do?
They scooted down to Istin America with no support except their

40 thousand votes, they talked to people in latin America. Every-
body promised thes the sky but with one condition -- that Uncle Sam
approve. Then they vent to Washington end found out that Uscic Sam
did not approve. After nine months they blew up lest veek and threw
in the tovel. ‘vo delegates resigned and the other three said that
they vould do some housekeeping until they saw what happened.

17. Before leaving the PECE in its peaceful grave I think I
should nention that I nad gone all tirough the process of the
referendum itself, and after the RECE was formed I vas the delegate
in oe Angeles. After the referendum vas completed I helped get four
other delegates so that ve would have five delegates which like the
delegations throughout their country, and in Mexico City, Caracas,
ete., duplicated the original group of five. In Noveaber I resigned
because I could not get ansvers to a list of questions -- ansvers
for which I thought I vas Justified in asking -- 1.e., regarding its
finances, activities, successes, prospects, etc. That takes care of
the RECE. Hie

18. So nov, we've reached the corent of truth. All these things
have gone down the drain. During my recent visit to Miami there vos
one last hope which seened still alive. I was told ceverai tines by
these people that there is something very, very big being vorked out



©

Enclosure to

5 April 1065

dy the US agencies, that this very, very big tning is teminent,
that it {s based exclusively on an internal uprising and perhaps

the possibility of the assassization of Castro as a kickoff. Two
days ago I received a communication from a person who 1s close to
US Government people in Miami, representatives of the State Depart-
went, and also CIA people. He said that we should te patient, that
the end is not far avay and thst the so-called Onda Americana is
going to solve the problen. In other words, vhatever organization
is vorking on the Cuban probies apparently is on the verse of giving
the vord to vhonever is inside Cuba connected with this operation.

+I have little hope that this my be true. After five years, I have

no reason to belleve that circuzstances at this tive are different
than two or three years ago. Of course, I have to recognize that

the Johnson administration is not the same as the Kennedy adzinistra-
tion, as witness the lack of hesitation in the Vietnam situation. It
way interest you to know that a group of Cubans from RECE recently in
Washington were told by important people in no uncertain teras that
the Cuben problem is certainly not top draver right now, but second,
third or fourth. The top draver is Vietnam and that once Victnom is
Solved one vay or another, peruaps the Cuban situation would be moved
up to the forefront, if no other area of the world flares up.

19. So, this 1s the situation that brings us right down to
the point which I wanted to discuss with you in detail -- the formation
of a Cuban Government in Exile a3 the only possible solution to mve
the Cuban situation off dead center, whether the US Governnent is
willing at this tive to help or not. We feel that the creation of a
Cuban Government in Exile, if done right and has the woral authority
and the solid backing of the Cutan exiles, could possibly create a
situation where, without having to risk any Auerican lives, the Cuban
problen and the Communist threat in Cuba could be eliainated vithout
danger of World War III, or escalation, or anybcdy dropping the fanous
bomb in New York or Washington, I sa going to tell you vay a group
of people, including ayself, telleve very strongly that this govern-
went in exile should be wade ss scon as possible, and ac veil as
possible. And the fact that if it were a fait accompli it would
create some drastic changes in the thinking of the State Department
regarding a Cuban Government in Exile.

20. The beginning of the idea of a governvent in exile started
at an OAS meeting in washington in July 1964 vhen Dr. Prio ard Dr.
Merquez Sterling capitalized on their personal, old friendships
with the present Secretary of State of Brazil, Vasco Leitao Da Cunha,
and also the ex-ambassador of Argentina, Julio Amoedo, to further

zal


Enclosure to
IA-274-65,
5 April 1965

these ide Both the latter had been ambassadors to Cuba during
the Prio regine and there vere strong tics between thes. At the
time of this conference in vuly 1964, apparently Prio convinced
Ieitao and Aooedo that the idea of a Cubun Government in Exile
would be @ solution to the Cutan problem. Brasil still had fresh
in ite mind the horrible scare of going Communist, and Leitao is
strongly anti-Communist. He offered Prio a place to gather in
Brazil for most of the Cuban leaders (and he knew them all). The
List of people to be invited to Brazil contained all the top leaders

‘] im exile. I can give you their names but I think it would be just

academic because the yathering did not take place. This proposal
created tremendous excitement among the Cuban exiles and of course
Prio ventioned it as the basis for his enthusiasm in creating a
government in exile. Dr. Prio felt that if Brazil, which 1s the
largest nation in Latin America, and the most popular vith the US,
especially now that it hes a friendly government, vould recognize
the Cuban Government in Exile and give it a temporary howe there
that this would persuade the US to cooperate in some vay or another.
The fact 18 that recently the Brazilian authorities turned dovn Dr.
Prio, much to bis sorrow. ‘he information I have is that there vere
soue very strong pressures exerted by the State Departmeat on the
Brazilian Governsent against the idea of cooperating with Dr. Prio
or asy of his friends, in creating a Cuban Governvent in Exile.

Just a few days ago in Hiaoi, Mr, Leitao told Dr. Prio, and this

is very reliable inside inforwation, that if he had gone ahead with
the original plans of inviting Prio and other Cubans to Zrazil, he

night have lost his job.

21, Incidentally, yesterday I had a very interesting tidpit
which I don’t know is true or not. Perhaps tomorrow it will be all
academic, but I was told that Prio and Leiteo would have one last
secret meeting in Houston, Texas, where Mrs. leitao is taking sous
kind of medical treateent. So perhaps this is not cumpletely dead
yet or mayte Leitao wants to appear as trying to insist some core --
I don't knov, but it is interesting.

22, Anyvay, after the Brazilian turn-down, the Mient leadership
was staggered. No one knew what to do next or vhom to talx to.
Apparently the.Cuban leaders felt that unless they had tne support
of o latin Averican country they vould not be able to go ancad vith

their government in exile idia.



Enclosure to
LA-2G94 65
5 April 1965

23. As 8 result of sooething that happened wore recently, I
have real hopes, In the last few days, perhaps yeu have heard,
there wus an unbelievable plebiscite beld in Mian first, then in
Ios Angeles, ani thea in Nev York and Puerto Rico, in which people
vere just invited by a comaittee of vowen to cove to certain places
and express thearelves on a little card on whether they wanted @
government in exile to be formed. Well, the reaction vas un-
believable. I gave out only tvo small announcerents on ay radio
prograa, and ve had aloost 50CO people coe to Hollyvood and Vine
on a rainy, cold afternoon to deposit their little postcards saying
“We want a goverument in exile.” Miami had close to 50 thousand
do the save, New York isd over 50 thousand people. Puerto Rico
bad another 10 or 15 thousand. In other words, it vas a spontaneous,
legitivate reaction of the Cuban public in favor of having some kind
of an organization to represent them in their exile.

2h. As a result of this informal plebiscite, ve've resolved
in Los Angeles to ignore the impasse that had cowe about in the
leadership in Miami, to ignore tbe difficulties and complications
end all the things that people told us would be icpossible in
having @ government in exile vithout the support of the US, and go
ahead. And this is the main reason for my visit vith you tonight.
The idea, incidentally, of a government in exile way raise some
hackles in the State Departoent but froma purely legal point of
view, I feel, and I have no reason to believe the contrary, that the
Cubans in exile here are not violating any law of the US -- federal,
state or local -- because what they are doing at this time is running
an election to determine the opinion of 200 thousand-300 thousand
people as to whom they think should take over the leadership of the
exiles, Until such tine as those elected declare themselves a
governucnt in exile there vould be no conflict with US laws.
Perhaps at that tive, once these people are elected and accept
the election, they can then discuss this point with the State
Department. If the State Departeent tells them that if they declare
theaselves a governsent in exile that they're going to jail,.then
all they have to do is find out if Costa Rica will take thea, or El
Salvador, or Brazil, or whatever. Of course, they and we know that
most of these countries are strongly dependent upon US aid and loans,
ard so fortn, for the!r operation ard there is no doubt in my mind
that it fe going to take a little persussion to get a Latin American
country to defy the US and give this government in exile a piece of
land and recognition. But there is an alternative which ve have
considered and this {3 that these wen vho will be elected in this
process do not necessarily have to declare themselves a governoent

-12-


losure to
1A-2oh -05
5 April 1965

7

in exile. They could declare themselves to be sove kind of a
leadership Junta, or © preparatory coeaittee or viatever, to avoid
ny legal probless with the State Departoent of the US.

25. There has been -- I telieve I mentioned it before -- a
tremendous amount of floundering by the leaders in Miami after the
Brazilian denial of a weeting place in Rio de Janeiro and a group
of us in California, and frankly I have been the prige instigator
in this, have decided not to wait for the people in Miami, but to
go ahead and start an election in California to sce how it works
out. I can assure you that in the planning of thie whole election
there have ‘been no participants except a number of us Cubans all
of whom I think are in good faith and who may not be leaders but
are intelligent and vell weaning. So, ve decided to start here
in California vhere, incidentally, the passions of politics are not
as vehement. In Miami, the people are intense in their political
passions and their brains are clouded. For instance, about five
or six days ago, I called Dr, Eduardo Suarez Grivas, who is the
pover behind Prio’s political machinery. All the meetings are held
in his house and he is the real brains of this whole thing. This
wan was a Cuban senator for some 18 years and one of the most active
in passing good, progressive legislation. I consider hia one of the
wost brilliant men in the political strata of Miami. I talked to him
for half an hour on the phone, had to let hiw know what we vere
planning and to ask him if there was any possibility of our endanger-
ing something that would be good for Cuba because, if a0, ve wouldn't
do it, Our objective is the liberation of Cuba, if our move here
could possibly upset something else, te vould refrain. Ic asked ue
to wait a few days because something was going on but I learned fron
other sources that the situation down there was alnost chaotic 60 we're

going ahead,

26. Now, what are we going to do? Well, this is the story;
we call it the California Plan. We are going to hold an election
on April 25th -- that's about four weeks fro now roughly -- that
will give us plenty of tice. The mechanics are these: We will
invite every Cuban tn the Los Angeles area to come to one of 15 to
25 predetermined polling places throughout the city and surrounding
areas where ve know that there are a nuuber of Cubans, We think
that ve will be able to use the International Institute on Boyle
Breet, the-CYO building in East Los Angeles, several churches,
including the Blessed Sacrement here in Hollywood, a number of
Yasonic temples, the Knights of Columbus hall dovntown at Ronnie
Bree and Ninth, and a nusver of business places. For instance,
there are about five Cuban restaurants ve will turn into polling
places, a few stores, snops, and gas stations ovned and operated

Beate

the cote -

sists



Enclosure to
IA-29h-65
5 April 1965

by Cubans. The polls will de open from 0900 to 1500, Sunday,
April 25th. :

27. In each polling place there vill be a looseleaf register
on vhich the person coning in to vote will put his name, his signa-
ture, his address, telephone, and then his identification, which
Will be checked. We will accept Cuban passports, wid or not,
Inzigration cards, and driver's licenses, plus whatever other
identification is approved by the voting committee, We will meet

Saturday (27 Mar 65] vith six ex-magistrates of the Cuban courts

vho have had electoral experience. They will give us guidance on
hov to do this properly. After the person identifies himself and
registers ve will give him a ballot to mark in private. Either
from his memory, or from an information sheet available he will
vote for a president, a vice-president end for perhaps as few as 15
or 88 wany as 25 members of an advisory council, The number has
not yet been determined. The advisory council vould have certain
veto povers over the President, as ve do not vant another dictator.
There will be another area on the ballot for a regional representa-
tive of each city that has more than five thousand Cuban residents.

28. When the people wark their ballots end drop them into the
ballot box we vili ‘solicit vhatever financial help they can afford
to defray thio election expense, which will approximate $2,000.

We will try as far ss possible to have a former wember of the Cuban
Judiciary at each polling place, along with one or two meubers of the
2506th Brigade on guard. We will try to get the cooperation of the
city in providing us with police. At 1500 we will seal the ballot
boxes and try to have the city or some siailar authority impound
them so that they will be out of the hands of Cubans until they

are properly counted. This may be @ little shameful but we don't
vant anyone in Miami or any place to say that these elections vere
fraudulent because ve handled the ballots.

29. .To help keep the election clean ve will stamp the hand
of the voter with a special ink of the type used at race tracks
and places of anusement, This ink only shows vhen put under black
or ultraviolet light, Having ence cast a tallot, they will be unable
to vote again in any other place because they will be marked. That
18 one way of keeping it clean.

30. Eligibles will include every Cuban over 18 or 21 -- ve
have not decided the age yet. We would-like to keep as close as
possible to the age provided in the 1940 constitution of Cuba, so
vhatever the constitution says, that’s what we're going to abide by.

We

y

sty


ae * Enclosure to
TA-294-65
5 April 1965

31. To help people's memories ve vill provide with each ballot
@ separate sheet containing apprximately 100 nanes vith a brief
biography of each person, each of vhom bas taken part in various
activities during the six years of exile, ‘They will be from every
Side of the political fence. If voters vant to have soccone who is
not on this list, it 1s their privilege. This is a free and in-
dependent popular expression or election, if you want to call it
that. .Perhaps’in about a veek or so ve will buy a full-page in
Ia Opinion [Spanish-langunge daily in Los Angeles] and explain
the wiole procedure. Also, we're going to keep a barrage of radio
a@nnouncenents going, explaining to the Cuban people the iaportance
of the election, giving out the names, doing everything possible to
create enthusiasm for these elections.

32. ‘Now, this 1s going to shock many people in New York and
Miami, but we want to shock them because they don't seem to be
doing anything at all. If, between now and the 25th of April,
they get their heads together and dé something similar, fine.
All ve want to do is get the ball rolling. Hopefully, they will
do something similar.

33. Incidentally, I should mention that we are going to try
in the next week, after ve get everything straightened out, to
contact someone in the larger US cities, Mexico City, Puerto Rico,
Caracas, Madrid and Santa Domingo, which are dig centers of Cuban
exiles, and all the Central American republics. We're going to try
to encourage elections simultaneously in each of these countries
and in every city of the US. If ve are capable in the next four
weeks to get the ball rolling in all these centers of Cubans, then
ve will count the ballots that same day. If we can only have our
ovn elections in the Western states on the 25th of April, then we
will place the sealed ballot boxes in safe-keeping and wait until
the other cities have held their elections and then do the counting
the same day. Otherwise, we aight destroy the whole election if we
Indicated Celifornia's preferences.

34. Now, let's suppose that the elections have come off
beautifully throughout the whole world, with expressions from
200 to 300 thousand Cubans. What happens next? Well, those who
have been elected are going to have to act because they have
received a mandate I am sure they will regard very carefully.

I can tell you now that the people elected who do not accept
this wandate hed better forget ahout going back to Cuba. The

~15-



a

Enclosure to
TA-29-65
5 April 1965

Rext ove io this! These people are guing to have to decide how they're
going to operate, and perhaps get in touch with the US State Department
to determine what is and what is not legal. Perhaps they my have to
go to 6 Central American country, periaps to Panama, who knows? But
the most important thing ‘that I vant you to know is that ve are going
to subait to the government of exiles or in exile a waster plan for the

liberation of Cuba.

35. This master plan is sizple and ve believe strongly in it.
Tais governvent in exile or of exiles vould have such tremendous
suthority vith the backing of periaps 320 thousand Cubans that it
would be strong enough to overcome the fears of the State Department.
We believe that the Averican people vould endorse this exercise of
democracy right in their ovn yard by people who want to liberate their
ova country . I think that the people of the US, if properly informed,
would probably vant their government to help. I don't think that the
People of the US vould tolerate aay opposition from the State Depart-
nent unless it could prove that this vas bad for the US. Knowing the
influence of American public opinion, ve feel that this step will
actually change the thinking of the people in State who at this time
way be opposed to this idea.

36. Now, if we are able to alter the thinking of the State Depart-
went so that it vill not oppose vistever [atin Averican countries my
be disposed to help the exile wovenent, then we come to the final stage
of our thinking and our reason for creating this government of exiles
in exile, The flnal stage is sinply this. - The government of exiles or
in exile, or at least its President and its equivalent of Secretary of
State, perhaps, should visit each of the heads of governuent of the
following republics: Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Costa
Rica, Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, Dominican Republic, and the free
associated State of Puerto Rico, The exile group should discuss with
the heads of these 10-Caritbean countries a plan for orgenizing in each
an arny or a brigade vhich hopefully vould be composed of ‘three elements:
Cubars, local citizenry and local cilitary nen.

37. The Cubans of military age vould come from all over to get
uilitary training at bases provided in one of these 10 countries, We
think that the Cuban element would number approxinately 50 thousand
Cubans vf military age vho vould be distributed throughout these 10
countries. Then we would have the local citizenry, the youth of these
10 countries, who vould like to participate in this Army of the Caribbean,
not to fight Castro for the sake of the Cubans, out for their ovn safety
and for their ovm countries. Castro has proven hinself a menace to the
internal security of every country in the Caribbean -- Venezuela is the

-16-

chy vey


: Enclosure to
TA-234-O5
5 April 1965

most glaring exauple. The youngsters in these countries, vitn a

sense of patriotism and adventure, shocld provide another 50 thousand
wen to be trained with the Cubans in tits ring of steel around the

- Caribbean, Then, the cost ioportazt part of this army of literation |

in the Caribbean vould be volunteers fre the regular arny of each
of these countries provided we could vork things out with their own
governments so that they would not lose either their citizenship,
position or reputation by reason of vcimnteering for this aruy of
the Caribbean.

38. Now come the big questions -- bio is going to pay for all
this? Who is going to supply the ammmition? Or the military hard-
ware? Or the armada necessary for sn ‘cvasion of Cuba by an aray
that may have between 150 thousand ani 2 thousand men. We believe
that the Cuban Governuent of exiles or in exile can make arrangements
with each of these countries to provide tases, military facilities,
training areas, military advisors, food, and tousing for that part
of the liberation force in that country. If one or another country
is not financially able to do this I am sure that once the arny
begins to form, the bases vorking and ite training started, there
would. be @ wove throughout all of Aperica, north, central and-south,
to raise funds for Cuba's liberation, i'a sure that millions vould
ve available.

39. The next question is military sardvare. I'm afraid Uncle
Sam, directly or indirectly, is the only source of supply that we
can look to. We vould like to keep Urcie San out of any inter-
national involvement and let this te essextially a movement by
Iatin Anericans for [atin American purprses. Kovever, there should
be nothing to keep the US from supplying these legitimate govern-
ments with whatever aruws they request. ‘The latcer, in turn, could
make tiese arus available to the brisades being trained in each
country. I believe the US Governnent is as anxious to eradicate
Communism from America as it is from Southeast Asis, and certainly,
it can find a way to supply hardware to tcese 10 inter-Awerican
armies within completely normal inter-sovernnent transactions.
There need be no direct contact betveen the US Government and the
Cuban exiles. :

40, Once this army is trained there's always the possibility
Castro might be assassinated, or other Averican plans wight be put
into cperation, or if the Cubans inside cZ Cuba do it themselves,
vell, then tre battle is von. In that harsy event, ve will dis-
santle this operation and return to Cuba. If none of these things
happen, andthe aruy goes ahead, then the vay I see it is this.

I don't honestly think that this argy of l:beration will ever have

i oe

-1-



Enclosure to
IA-29!-65
5 April 1965

land in Cuba as an invading army. I believe that vhen thia army
is ready to pounce, the people around Castro wiJl tell him they
don't think they should be there any longer. Then we'll see
either Castro fly out of Cuba or have his head blown off by his
own men, wost of whom would rather be heroes of the revolution
end save vhat they can. In ay opinion, this would end the affair,
but if it doesn't, then the army of liberation will have to invade
Cuba and go all-out. This is the way I see it and |this is about
the end of it.

41. I think I shoul4 point out at tlie stage that the elections
ve are preparing are coupletely different from the ones conducted
for RECE. The RECE plan presented a package of five wen to the
Cuban people on a take-it-or-leave-it basis and I think many people
resented this. There vere no alternatives. Ours is different. Ours
is a completely blank ballot. ‘The voter can choose anyone he vants,
even his mother-in-lav. So I think the people will react favorably.

42. I think before ending I vould like you to hear the words
of Dean Rusk vhen he spoke at a Los Angeles World Affairs Council
luncheon at the Beverly Hilton Hotel on Sept. 18, 1964. I asked
him from the floor if the State Department was grooming RECE for @
governoent {n exile. At that time I really thought this was happen-
ing since RECE people had been so secretive about their activities
in Washington. Rusk said,

“Well, I don't vant to probe the future unduly
in this current situation but there are some tough
problems ‘about n government in exile that ve should
keep in mind. In the first place, Cubans outside of
Cuba have not been strongly united and there are a
considerable number of divergent groups, and wy under-
standing is that they have not yet been able to come
together with the degree of solidarity that vould
speak vith authority on such a point, Then one must
bear in wind also the attitude of the people who
remain in Cuba and what their attitude tovard such
leaders might be. Nor wiot vould be their role to
play in any future development on the island. Third,
I would like to emphasize that it is of the greatest
importance to us to deal with the Cuban question on
as broad a hemispheric basic as possible. We made
great strides in the last year or tvo in moving in

moray



Enclosure to
TA-294-65
5 April 1965

that direction. I've already consented on that
earlier today. And there 19 considerable suspicion,
frankly, throughout atin Averica about things called
governnents in exile. Of course, far fro the Cuban
question, this idea appears to many of us to te an
inetrupent vhich might lend itself to intications

of other sorts and other places at other tines.

And so there's considerable sensitivity about
governments in exile in the heolephere. I per-
sonally would not think there would be great
advantace in our recognizing a government in

exile if we vere the only ones to do so.”

43. These are the vords of Secretary of State, Dean Rusk,
regarding governnents in exile in general and a Cuban government
in exile, in particular, As we can see, the Secretary of State
does not express ideas that are contrary to those we have expressed
in thie conversation we've had today with you. ‘There are several
points in Dean Rusk's conversation that lead we to think that if
the Cuban government in exile is prepared in accordance with the
plan of elections we have outlined earlier, there is a very strong
possibility that the State Department would change its present
attitude and not only accept the possibility ef s governent in
exile but even recognize it under the proper circusstances. If
seven, or eight, or 10 nations, in the Caribbean or Argentina
and Brazil decide to recognize this governnent, there's no reason
why the State Department could not change its present negative
attitude.

4h, Naturally, there are many questions left unanswered in

this conversation but I would be very happy to ansver any further
questions that you or the people that are associated with you may
have. Before I finish I Just vant to express ny strong feelings
that the cause of the Cuban exiles and the security of the US are
parallel, although there might be some divergent points in procedure
of international consequences. But I am going ahead with this elec-
tion in California vith the hope that it will help create « Cuban
government of exiles or in exile, whichever 1s the final wording,
and it willbe for the future security of this country, a8 well as
the liberation of Cuba, With these words, I vould like to close -
this chat and thank you for your attention.

(y. 5 %B& Do oot fail to see Para, 5 thru 9 of accompanying memo. }

= end -

-19- teen
a

