# 104-10180-10076

## Page 1

104-10180-10076

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

=50.

inside 190.8800.

82.74

SE RET

RETURN 7O

Background Uac Only

Do Not Reproduce

To: 4915351797

ROS: NOWAVE

ACTION

UH/SA 8

INFO.

01/10 2,

2, 9%, caped, calenge cAl 47

ca/04,01/0p5,

00/1, 10/013, 10/ME.

R

TOCS

SECRET 362035Z

19538

POIR INFO SDOM SUAN CITE WAVE 9923 (INGHURST ACTING) DONDERED NED GUSTINE

CUNTEL TYPIC

NANCESS

24

• SUPDATA: ZAWAHCO, CUSHIER-6 FROM LUGAMBER-IE WID WORKS IN E

MIAMI. UZIE AS ORIGIN OF INFO MUST NOT BE DISLICED.

WAVE SPECULATING POSSIEU

CONRECTION THIS REFORT AND KOLA CÉTE. (IN 37921).1

RID:

INDEX. FILED: 36/29352. REPORT CLASS CON IDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEMA

I CUNTRY: CUSA

QUES: PLANS OF VALLEL RAY RIVERO, JURE LINCER, TO TRAVEL TO THE

DOMINICAN REFUELIE

UDas

Dal: 29 JULY 6-

DADA: UNITED STATES, MRAN 129 JULY 64)

1...

No Prest.

TO's:"

MAC.. :

"TACHES

"* PENDIN.

-*

RELEASING INO:

DATE DISTRIBUTEDE

SECRET

12851389

INITIAL

BASED ON:

LIAISON:

OH MEER

TOES

PRECSDENCE

BAL TINE

I PEGRITY

TOMATE

I3:

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

• il '51

АСТЮРЬ

INFOR

PAGE 2

IN 39538

TOCS

SOURCE: FORMER LATIN AMERICAN MILITARY OFFICER WHO AT ONE TIME

RESICEO IN HAITI AND THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. HE STILL MAINTAINS

FAIRLY CLOSE FRIENDSHIPS WITH OFFICIALS OF THOSE COUNTRIES.

SOURCE IS A TRAINED REPORTER AND HIS INFORMATION HAS BEEN RELIABLE

IN THE PAST.

IW COMMENTI

BELEANINO IDO

DAYR OISTRIBUTED

BADED ONE

LIAISONI

TOCS

PRECEDENCE

"ROUTINE

PRENAY

SECREI

Copy Mo

---

## Page 3

4-00000

:

CONFIDENTIAL.-

mia.

COUNTRY

¿ATE OF

NFO.

CENTRAL INTELLIDENCA ADENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

TOCS

DISTR

SUNICT

SA:P ACO.

OURCE

ANO

IPPRAISALI

REF

FIELD REPORT. NO

*' 39538

R

1a DE 21 JULY SI, THE DOMINICAN CONSULATE IN MIAMI RECEINEO

GINSTRUCTIONS FROM THE MINISTRY OF POREIGN AFFAIAS IN SANTO DOMINGO

JO, ISSLE A TRAVEL VISA TO MANUEL RAY RIVERO, LEADER OF THE JUNTA

REVOLUCIONARIA CUSANA (JURE, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA), VISAS

WERE ALSO TO SE ISSUSO TO LT. COL, MANUEL VARELA CASTRO ANO

CALANDO AGOSTA SUAREZ, AKA DEBO ACOSTA, ALSO OF JURE.

R

(END OF MESSAGE)

CONFIDENTIAL

STATS/INA DIA ARMY/ASSI MUVO AIR SER 886082. MEA NIC AID VELA ORI ONA

OSA arA 00

• 413899S;

RI COPY LA

RI COPY

JS

---

