# 104-10062-10058

## Page 1

1104-10062-1005

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

In Keply, Pliner Refer so

file No.

(105-11883)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami,

Florida

March

5, 1969

- SECRET -

MICHUFILMED

MAR Z5 1969

DOC. MICRO. SER.

KE: CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

On February 25, 1969, source, a Cuban exile

residing in Miami, Florida, furnished the following

signed statement, as translated from the Spanish

language:

Miami, Florida

February 25, 1969

I, (name of source), have read a statement

of my rights and understand my rights.

These

rights

were read to me by Joseph s. dawson, who

identified himself to me as a Special Arent of

thie Feileral Bureau of Investigation (FBI), in

the presence of SAMUEL W. JONES, who also identified

himself to me as a Special Agent of the FBI.

signed a waiver of rights after I had read my

rights, and the Agent had read them to me.

make this statement to the Special Agents of the

They have not threatened me or

made promises to me to make this statement.

I have given information about

• to Agents of the FBI,

which information was not correct.

According to

my previous statement, my first contact with the

was in November of 1967, while actually I was

(recruited

B in about October of 1965.,

- SECRET

Group 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

r..n.

4.?

!

!

116-5-14

DSC 4593)

10.0.

53, 5-60526

#5613

---

## Page 2

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE LITED STATES

Just before the time of the Camarioca affair in

October oi 1965, l made a Clandestine trip by

boat to Cuba to bring out relatives of Cubans

who residid in the United States. This trip was

made in

tro boats with ENRIQUE GONZALEZ, Stow deceased;

SEE AND t whd weed the nicknames

GU HAGUA" and "EL PICARO."

Wlien I was visiting a person

1n Havana, Cuba,

whose name I do not remember, who was, a person

I had been sent to in order to make arrangements

for the families who were leaving Cuba with me,

I was detained by two men whoädentified themselves

to me with credentias as G-2 Agents.

They took me

to an office in Havana, of which I do not know the

address.

In this office, they kept me for eight

to ten hours.

While I was detained, a man dressed

in olive drab uniform interrogated me.

This man

accused

me of being an Agent for the Central

Intelligence Agency (CIA) of the United States,

which I denied.

At the request of this uniformed

man, I consented to work for the G-2 in the United

to the United States with the Cuban

Tho

261-285665

G-2 official rave me the address of

of Havana, Cuba, and told me

to either write him

or to call

at Havana telephone number

no further instructions, but told me that I should

keep in contact, since they would possibly need

2.

A centact 19 ten E-2 exert

su N.S.

ad. i.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

RE:

at: Calai?

Sey: F

A: Col

Ria

i,

- SECRET -

CUSAT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN II UNITED STATES

ne in the future. He took down information

concronist my background, including my address,

which was

it that time

Court,

Apar Larent

Miami, Florida.

occurred

some five months later,

Jany import with the

when I wrote

1 lifter directed to

and enclosed

it im: letter which I had written to my wife,.

This letter was addressed to

Cuba, or to the

Cuba.

I

wrole this letter to

with the

purpose of paving the way for another trip to

brig people out of Cuba. In other words, it

425

to insure my entrance and departure, without

dificulty from the Cuban Government.

In this

letier, I wrote only that I was still at their

service, and that I would soon return to Cuba by

boat.

I did not receive an answer to this

letter.

My next contact with the

was in August

of 1966, when I went to Cuba by boat to bring

people out of cuba and to pring them to the

United States.as refugees....On this trip, i went

with'

nod.dl.

whose uirst name I do not

know.

On this trip, we arrived.in Cuba at midnight,

and

and I went to the home of his parents

in

The next morning,

I left with the

sister of

for

Sagua la Grande. where I obtained a car which took

me to Havana.

had instructed me to

contact a family in Havana which was friendly

but the man to whom I had been

3.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 4

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

had already gone to Sagua la Grande?

Then I went to the house of

Havina.

• contacted severad relatives oi

wanted to leave* Cuba.

In ofder to assure me that

I would have no problem

leaving Cuba, I

called the telephone number of

the number they had given me previously, and asked

them to contact me on an urgent matter.

A little

later, three men dressed in civilian dothing

airdred in a car, and one of them identified

himself as

he was a white man,

5'8"

, 155 pounds, sharp features, with a short

beard and large ears.

He gave me no specific

instructions, but told me to stay in conta ct

with them.

After this, I had no contact with the

until about february or March of 1967.

was after I had been detained by United States

Customs Agents in Miami when I was trying to

leave for Cuba by boat. On this occasion,

February 21, 1967, I was arrested and charged

with Ässaulting a Federal Officey, and I was

freed on bond,

awaiting trial. After I was out

on bond and while I was awaiting trial, I was

restricted to the State of Florida. In the meantime,

I wrote the second letter to

and

sent it enclosed in a letter addressed tom

wife in Cuba to one of the above-mentioned

addresses.

In this letter, I told

I was in a difficult situation and could not

leave

the State of Fbrida, and that I wished to

talk to

someone who could help me.

A A Rod to

- SECRET -

---

## Page 5

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN TIE UNITED STATES

I received an answer to this second letter

in about July of 4967, while I was in jail.

The answor was a typewritten létter signed

and tas

sCut in an envelope placed inside another

eaveione.

The outside envelope was sent from

Costa Kica. I did not receive this letter while

in prison, since

, with whom I was

opened it and kept it for me until my

deparlure from prison in Septenber of 1967)

Afior I left prison in September of 1962,

I received several telephone calls at the home

from an individual in New York

who identified himself as "

When I first talked with un,

he told

me tilat he was

cousin:" He later

AKA

identllied himself as

to the

I made several trips

to

New Yory under assumed

names.

In New York, I

met with

and we discussed the Cuban

exile situation. Complete information about these

trips and meetings with

have been furnished

1 signed statements

Since the first contact with

I have

made several reports by telephone and others personally

tot

about the activities of several anti-CASTRO

groups In Miami, and I have received about two thausand

dollars from

for these services, including

money for the tickets; to New York.

Concerning these reports,

-showed a

great deal of interest in information relating to

clandestine trips to Cuba by members of the anti-

CASTRO groups in Miami, as well as any plan of

attack against the person of FIDEL CASTRO. All

5.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 6

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

the information that I have given to

has been

deceiving or false, and I have been careful to

insure that the false information could not be

checked on.

To demonstrate that I was a reliable

person, •I gave

certain information about events

that had already happened which could be verified

or which was public information.

For example,

after one clandestine trip to Cuba carried out

by Cuban exiles,

I gave information about this.

trip, but only after they had returned to the

Unitrd States. I never have given information

which could have jeopardized any person, to the

best of my knowledge.

In December of 1968, I furnished to,

a completely lake story about a plan by Cuban

exiles in Miami to assassinate FIDEL CASTRO.

1

told him that they were going to make this attack

while CASTRO was speaking

I told

that the rames of the Cuban exiles involved

in this plan were the following:

(Iirst name unknown)"

". I told!

_that they would

I reported

I had received this information from & Cuban

whose last name is

who is & boat

mechaniC) working for gy agency of the United

States Government in Miami.

After giving him this report,

¡called

me several times each week during December of 1968,

to find out if I had learned more about this

attempt against

the life of FIDEL CASTRO.

In

January of 1969, I reported to

that the

6.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 7

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN TUS UNITED STATES

group had returned, and had failed in their

mission.

To the best of my knowledge, none of

these persons exist, with the exception of

In making these reports, I used certain

code words which had been given to me by

and they are as follows:

-.

--

These code words have been used by me in

telegrams sent to addresses in Cuba designated

which I have previously furnished to

the FBI.

The telegrams which I sent were

signed with *the code name

and other

names.

These telegrams were only sent to Cuba.

Near the end of 1967,

told me to

make a trip to Cuba with a select group, which

/ included

and he told me that I

would receive documents in Cuba which would

indicate that a

7.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 8

14-00000

HE :

- SECRET -

(BAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES IN

THE UNITED STATES

since I never returned to Cuba, this plan

ncer carried out.

Although he never gave

me the name of the Cuban, I was under the

impros:.ion that it would

be someone unknown in

the

inielligence field.

ni this time, I also remember that

Prave me instructions to talk to.

who talk teard ot

He told me that in conversation

with

. I should try to learn if

received any information from

Chad

reliting to the policies of President RICHARD

NIXON, concerning the Cuban situation.

also instructed me to talk with

about the Cuban problem.

My last contact with

was at

while I was in the house of

in Miami.

thad told me he was going

to call me

, at Miami

number

I waited for the call, and

since he did not call me, I sent a telegram to

Havana, Cuba. addressed

between

and

Eventes,

Cuba.

In the telecram. I wrote.

telegram on

I sent this

! This telegram

is the code that I have with

and the code

means

that

should call me at

on the

night

indicated in the telegram.

During the call

from

on

he asked me how

8.

-

SECRET -

... i.

---

## Page 9

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

things were going, and also told me he would be y

Gone

and that another person

would contact me on the

darch, 1969, at L

at Miami telephone number

This person is to identify himself

with the code,

I have read this declaration of eleven pages

and it is correct.

(signed by the source and witnessed by two

Spocial. Agents of the FBI.)

On February 25, 1969, the source made available

containing printed words in the

Source advised this printed material

constitutes

his

which was utilized by him for

He said

i were furnished to

him by

sometime during November of

1968.

At the time they were given to him, they

were enclosed in

gave him

and demonstrated to him

The

as translated from

contained the following information,

the

9.

SECRET -

---

## Page 10

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

-

10.

SECRET -

---

## Page 11

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN TIE UNITED STATES:

11.

• SECRET -

---

## Page 12

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

12.

- SECRET •

....-.-:

,....-.

---

## Page 13

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

13.

-SECRET -

---

## Page 14

14-00000

RE:

..- SECRET

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

14

- SECRET

---

## Page 15

14-00000

n020/

n0201

15.

-

SECRET -

+: 59

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

---

## Page 16

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

1202

According to source, on the

of the

Dhad written instructions for the source in

connection with the investigations he was to make.

This''*

handwriting was as follows:

1..

16.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 17

14-00000

- SECRET -

RE:

-.

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

N THE UNITED STATES

DANA TORRESO

(tather and

SAN SAMERA, And JUITAN PEREZ

Stay in contact with

ALFREDO CORDERO

NA: 500

•elations

Matter of NEGlErs and his relation to PiPE Rid o

Obtain photographs of yourself with CIA P.A.: that."

you кпо.

Source advised that following his first personaly

contact with

his telegram contact y2

in Cuba was changed fronv

Apartment

aud

between

Aven

Cuba.

no20/

Regarding the information concerning

source advised he, the source, is friendly with

and is in a position to contact

regularly,

Inasmuch as

has requested the source to assist him

in bringing a relative of

from Cuba to the United

States.

Source said

had previously operated a

store in downtown Miami, but now

plans to open a new.'

store in a Miami shopping center. located at

Street and

Avenue, in which shopping center REBOZOY

has a financial interest.

PROPERTY OF FBI - This document contains neithet cy.

recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the

property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; It and its w

conents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

17.*

- SECRET -

a fin sets

---

## Page 18

14-00000

23-08)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION:

Miami, Florida

March

3, 1969

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

(105-14883)

Title

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

Character.

Reference

INTERNAL, SECURITY - CUBA

Memorandum, dated and captioned

as above, at Miami,.

Florida

All sources (except any listed below) whose Identities'

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

Information in the past.

ĐBO

4593/2

This document contains nelther recommendations nor conclusione

of the FEl, It se the proporty

of the FBl and is loaned lo your agency; it and lle contento are not lo be diatribulad outerdo.

your agency.

118-5-14

---

