oO anann
‘Toa-t05'0-10078, 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

~ q

eee i Gu HAS NOOBRECTIONTA. teins
ol Denassncaron aman = c=)

RELEASE OF TW COGENT ——

. MEY 4 aS OP
. DECODED COPY on
DA GRAM x» CABLEGRAM ORADIO CTELETYPE
Ae Uncen to Wee 52 ytcg
TO DiRECTOR .
FROM. LEGAT MEXICO CITY ~ NO. 203

BUFILE 105-82555. LEE HARVEY OSWALD, IS - Re
RE TELEPHONE CALL FROM ASSISTANT DIRECTOR W. C. SULLIVAN THIS
AFTERNOON, REP
" SifinsTON SCOTT) HEAD OF} c1a GrEICEIHERE, JUST ADVISED RECEIPT OF
CABLE FROM HIS HEADQUARTERS FURNISHING INFO RE POLYGRAPH OPERATOR.
[ScOTH] STATED HIS CABLE FURNISHED DETAILED INSTRUCTIONS TO EFFECT _
CUSTODY OF (LVARADG SHOULD BE OBTAINED FROM MEXICANS, THAT (ALVARADO)
SHOULD BE FED AND GIVEN A HANCE TO REST AND THAT INTERVIEW SHOULD
tae ONLY IN PRESENCE OF POLYGRAPH OPERATOR AND THE WRITER,
Bcort} skip HIS CABLE’ INDICATED: THAT THIS SHOULD BE DONE BECAUSE IT
MIGHT BE NECESSARY FOR WRITER TO TRAVEL TO WASHINGTON TO. REPORT ON
RESULTS OF INTERVIEW. ‘ -
(IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING CALL FROM MR. SULJJVAN THIS OFFICE TOOK
INITIAL STEPS TO STOP DEPORTATION OF @CVARAQO TO NICARAGUA WHICH
WAS|SCHEOULED FOR 8 AM TOMORROW, SINCE OLLPORIGINALLY HANDLED
TUBING OVER TO MEXICANS OF BLVARADQ WHO WAS UNDER CIA CONTROL,
He TCNIGHT 1S TAKING UP MATTER OF POLYGRAPH TEST OF @CVARADO) WITH
(Lftus ECHEVERRIAY ACTING MINISTER OF GOBERNACION, TO ASCERTAIN F
WHETHER MEXICANS WILLIIG TO RELEASE @LVARADQ FOR TEST, POSSIBILITY.
ALWAYS EXISTS THAT MEX GANS MAY FEEL THEIR NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY = {
BEING INVADED AND THEY MAY INSIST.ON HAVING ONE OR MORE OBSERVERS
PRESENT DURING TEST. La

BUREAU WILL BE ADVISED OF NEW DEVELOPMENTS. BECAUSE OF. FACT

a ag
KS 3 SACU Ie .
~ (aa

fee acsee

Ifthe: Higence contained in

\ ae
"ne message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, itis suggested that it be suitat
poroph- ed in order to protect t

wau’s cryptographic systems.


13-00000

TRANSMITTAL SLIP |

TO: ey) Da

ROOM NO. BUILDING

(Fees9'241 — ictrwarecusto. ay


13-00000

.- ( unctassiFizd Ooe oe (1 COPFIDENTIAL = xxxf3] SECRET
cele ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

‘SUBJECT: (Optional)
Department of Justice Request, dated 13 January 1976,
Pertaining to "Domestic Collection--270 Calls"

EXTENSION | NO.

DivD-76/061

DATE

29 January 1976

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

TO: (Officer designotion, room number, ond
building)

“y, SA/DDO, _2B1415
Attn: Mr. Fuller

Mh
FOC hiding | [| ean ant
be a) ee ore

2
Se op
Se a
a]
a gis
c
Paggiaaes? eer
ow
—

10,

73. 7 T

14,

15.

sea’ G10 “cites ed SECRET ©] CONFIDENTIAL =] eR, (1 UNCLASSIFIED


13-00000

_. SECRET

DivD-76/061
29 January 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Special Assistant to the
Deputy Director for Operations

ATTENTION _ +t. Mr. Richard Fuller

SUBJECT +. Department of Justice. Request, dated
: 13 Jan 1976, Pertaining to "Domestic
Collection--270 Calls" (OGC 76-0178)

REFERENCE : Request of OGC, dated 26 Jan 1976,
Requesting Division D Assistance to
Respond to Subject Request -

1. This memorandum responds to reference request
and its contents aré for the information and use of
Mr. George W. Clarke, Assistant General Counsel.

2. Attached, in accordance with reference request,
is an unsanitized copy of Division D memorandum FID 113/72
for transmittal to the Department of Justice.

3. Subject Department of Justice request asked, in
sub-paragraph 2), that this Agency provide a copy of a
memorandum dated 25 February 1972 to the General Counsel
requesting a legal opinion "re telephone tickets". A
thorough. search of our files fails-to indicate that such
a memorandum was ever written. We speculate that the
request to the OGC was verbal. We note, to support this
thesis, that the memorandum (sub-paragraph 3) of subject)
of James Boylan, OGC, is dated 25 February 1972 and suggest
that this memorandum is actually the subject of both
sub-paragraphs 2) and 3) of the subject request.

\

ivision D Executive Officer

E2 I
SECRET Ch BY 029613


: : ~eNb sg

FID 113/72
28 April 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director, Domestic Contact Service
SUBJECT : AT&T Telephone Booking Slips

REFERENCE : Murphy/DuBois Discussion Regarding Subject,
att February 1972

1. Henceforth, please send the reference material directly
to Mr. Richard Ober, Chief, C1/SO in Room G8-1909, Headquarters.
2. Mr. Ober will send you directly the necessary authority

and requirements for the continuation of this activity.

(Signed) Woodbury Carter

CARLETON B. SWIFT, JR.
Chief, Division D

\ ‘a
j L.4A-
Distribution: pan ofe, 0 Ib-/70
OeAddressee thre Ar Oba , YO ?
i= TCB file
1 - chrono
(R.E.DuBois/1f, 28 Apr 72)

