# 104-10326-10043

## Page 1

AAAAR

'104-10326-1004

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

(MHFNO: 96-5536596

SENSIND:/

PAGE:

(SECRET

(FRP:

(STAFE

EA/ PAMSI/A

INFO: C/ORMS,

GMDSX,

ODPD,

FILE,

C/EA, EA/XO. (3/P)

96 5536596/

LASO

DC/EA,

EA/ LGL,

EADORECORD,

LIMITO,

I PAGE

001)

TOT: 272220Z

SEP

96

DIRECTOR 96096]

SECRET

STAFE

TO :

IMMEDIATE

(272220Z DIRECTOR 960961)

FROM:] (LIMIT EA/PAMSI/A INFO EA/GL, CHIEF/EA, DC/EA

SLUGS:

WNINTEL

SUBJECT:

DECLASSIFICATION:

DEMARCHE TO USG REGARDING US LEGISLATION ON

REF:

NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: (PLEASE FAX BY COB 2 OCTJA COPY OF THE

TO THE USG_ REGARDING LEGISLATION ON THE

DECLASSIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS. ADDITIONALLY, WE WOULD APPRECIATE L

RECOLLECTION OF

_REACTION TO THE US LEGISLATION

AS WELL.

2: THE<JOHN>F. <KENNEDY>REVIEW BOARD< (JFK>BOARD) ESTABLISHED

*BY THE PRESIDENT TO DECLASSIFY ALL DOCUMENTS RELATING TO THE<JOHN>

*F. <KENNEDY ASSASSINATION>HAS COME ACROSS TWO

DOCUMENTS

(AND FOUR CIA DOCUMENTS) WHICH THEY WOULD LIKE TO DECLASSIFY WHICH

REVEAL THE EXISTENCE OF

RELATIONSHIP

THE REVIEW BOARD HAS BROAD AUTHORITY TO DECLASSIFY DOCUMENTS

*RELATED TO THE<JEK>COLLECTION REGARDLESS OF THEIR COUNTRY OE

ORIGIN OR THE SENSITIVITY OF THE SUBSTANCE. (IT HAS COME TO OUR I

ATTENTION THAT. THE BOARD HAS REVIEWED THE TWO

DOCUMENTS

AND THE FOUR CIA DOCUMENTS AND DEEMED THEM APPROPRIATE FORT

RELEASE….. GIVEN THE OBVIOUS SENSITIVITY OF OUR

IRELATIONSHIP

OGC IN COORDINATION WITH EA/ALL AND

PROPERTY OF

GOVERNMENT. INSTEAD WE ARE WILLING TO

PROVIDE SUMMARIES OF THESE DOCUMENTS OMITTING ANY MENTION OF THEIR

ORIGIN OR OF THE EXISTENCE OF JA RELATIONSHIP.

THE AGENCY DOCUMENTS WHICH MAKE REFERENCE TO

RELATIONSHIP WOULD BE REDACTED TO TAKE OUT ALL

REFERENCES

IN OUR EFFORT TO PRESENT A SOLID CASE TO THE<JFK> BOARD,

THE MEMO INCLUDES A STRONG ARGUMENT THAT EVEN APPROACHING THE

ON THE ISSUE OF DECLASSIFICATION OF A

DOCUMENT WILL STRAIN OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH THEM. OUR ARGUMENT

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

MHENO: 96-5536596

SENSIND:

WILL ENUMERATE THE THE UNFAVORABLE REACTION THE

HAD TO RECENT DISCLOSURES AND AGENCY REQUESTS FOR PERMISSION TO

DISCLOSE INFORMATION PASSED TO US

EXAMPLES WE INTEND TO CITE INCLUDE THE DUTY TO WARN ISSUE WHERE

WERE ADAMANT ABOUT NOT GIVING PERMISSION TO

DISCLOSE THEIR INFORMATION BECAUSE OF SOURCE PROTECTION ISSUES

ABOUT THE BOOK PUBLISHED BY A FORMER AGENCY

EMPLOYEE THAT ALLUDES TO

THE RECENT (DEMARCHE EXPRESSING CONCERN THAT_A FORMER

AGENCY OFFICER ALLEGEDLY DISCLOSED CLASSIFIED]

INFORMATION (AN ALLEGATION THE DDCI ASSURED

WOULD

CBE THOROUGHLY INVESTIGATED)., AND THE DEMARCHE

RAISING CONCERNS ABOUT OUR U.S.

DECLASSIFICATION LEGISLATION AND WHETHER THE LEGISLATION PROVIDES

ADEQUATE GUARANTEES ABOUT NOT DISCLOSING INFORMATION PASSED TO US

WITHOUT EXPRESS AUTHORIZATION. FROM SUCH

" WE WILL ALSO MAKE REFERENCE TO A RECENT

APPROACH

| ASKING FOR OUR OKAY IN THEIR

DECLASSIFYING SOME OF OUR DOCUMENTS, AND OUR STRONGLY-WORDED

RESPONSE DENYING PERMISSION AND ARGUING THAT SUCH DISCLOSURE WOULD

BE A BREACH OF TRUST.

*

IN ORDER TO BOLSTER OUR POSITION WITH THE<JEK>BOARD,

REQUEST STATION OBTAIN A HARD COPY OF THE

DEMARCHE ON

THE DECLASSIFICATION LEGISLATION THAT CAN BE ATTACHED TO THE MEMO.

WE BELIEVE THAT SUCH HARD COPY EVIDENCE

WILL

BOLSTER OUR ARGUMENT SIGNIFICANTLY.

WE ARE UNABLE TO LOCATE THE

ACTUAL TEXT OF THIS (DEMARCHE) IN HOS.

5.

THE BOTTOM LINE HERE IS THAT WE DO NOT WANT EVEN TO

APPROACH

/ ABOUT DECLASSIFYING. THE AFOREMENTIONED

DOCUMENTS. WE HOPE OUR

MEMO CONVINCES THE BOARD THAT, IN LIEU OF

RELEASING THE DOCUMENTS,

SUMMARIES THAT OMIT ALL REFERENCE

WILL SUFFICE.

FYI: OUR FALLBACK POSITION IF THE BOARD TURNS DOWN THE

CONCEPT OF SUMMARIES, IS TO MAKE CLEAR THAT WE CANNOT RELEASE THE

DOCUMENT, EVEN IN REDACTED FORM, WITHOUT.

PERMISSION; FURTHER,

THAT IF WE SEEK AND ARE DENIED PERMISSION AND

THE BOARD NONETHELESS PROCEEDS WITH THE DECLASSIFICATION, IT WILL

HAVE A TREMENDOUS NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH THE

IN SUM, OUR GOING-IN POSITION IS WE WANT TO

AVOID RAISING THE SPECTER

THAT THE AGENCY MAY

HAVE TROUBLE PROTECTING THEIR SECRETS.

IF THE BOARD TURNS DOWN

OUR INITIAL PROPOSAL AND INSISTS WE SEEKL

PERMISSION TO

DECLASSIFY, WE WILL DO SO: IN SUCH AN EVENT. OUR LEGAL PEOPLE*

BELIEVE A STRONGLY-WORDED DOCUMENT FROM THEL

REFUSING

DETESTON WOULD PROBABLY PERSUADE THE BOARD NOT TO RELEASE THE

DOCUMENT.

WE WILL KEEP YOU ADVISED ON HOW THIS. IS

PROGRESSING AND WOULD APPRECIATE ANY FURTHER GRIST FOR THE MILL AS

WE CRAFT OUR MEMO TO THE BOARD AS WELL AS THE TEXT OF THE

DEMARCHE ON DECLASSIFICATION LEGISLATION.

Z.5 FILE:

005-002-004.

715410, CL REASON: 1.5 (C

DECLON: X1, DRV FROM:

HUM 2---844J

(CABLETYPE: GECO STAFF 1.0.2.>

RELNO: DORELS01005250511

ORIG:

EA/ PAMSI/A

39998) COORD: BA/IGI

REL: C/EA/ PAMSI/

SECRET

PAGE:

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

MHENO: 96-5536596

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

(SENSIND:

PAGE:

3

SECRET

SECRET

---

