# 104-10172-10223

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10172-10223

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIIO

INTERNAL

"E ONLY

I COMFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORO SHEET

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

FLOM

Apron

Back

" 10TO FOR THE RECOFO

22 Ang 63

an, and

T-H.B

DAN

мато

M8O43

2

C/55/5J

C/SRAIT

SP/CI/* (Jaba MoM)

SR/CIK (Bocky)

13

10.

11.

12.

12.

18.

1s.

ross

610 And 1 SECRET

FOr MENDI 5'S 201

(201-09, 733)

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

ESE ONLY

L UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

22 1Q56st 1963

MENO FOR THE RECORD:

SIPJECT: ASIADIS

On the morning of 22August, MT. Stein asked that a briaf bi

prepared for li. Helns use in triofing Attorney janeral Kennody, ven

bad just recalved a call iron AlADis.

• .

2. Attachod 1s a therzofax ol'á copy of the brief prepared sor

It was kased prinarily on two nanostrum fron

* Holma he l Stole as a ta one eld tue be loot are in eno

201). we also attached a cory of WS/DC's l'ano dated 17 July 63 (co 1n 201)

rich was a "progress report" en AllADia's activitios in the un up to that

point.

3. In the course of assembling naterials needed, I loarned the

followings

Stove Kuhn, Affice of Secluity (red line 1250) is fanillar

with the case (be caLls AFLADIE "The Prince of dales"!), and

his Instructions to te on the alert for calls coring in

"NT. Stmo."

Fe has also determined thru his Ills sources

that ALADLE, and faily are nou in the lnitod Statos.

b) ARLADIE has given the address of his Virginta houso (now

occupded by other tasants) as a referanco.

His present addross

1s not knows. (i'a set sure uno told no this, possibly Steve Kulm).

o) No attempt has been made to contact ALADE by i

d) Ray Rocca of CI StafI seered to be the person 1i

Redict

Iras Jin funt who was on leave today who knous any!

substantivo abort the AñAlE case.

ESTONE]

Not

DONE.

obecca Clark

SYCH

SECRET

41498

---

## Page 3

14-00000

22 Angrust 63

ASADLE had a mooling with Attornay Goneral Kannedy

for copy of tape transcript of this nooting, sos

tapo transcript ILleS - "SPECIAL INPES»-

---

