# 104-10185-10120

## Page 1

:104-10185-10120

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CE TRAC INTELLIGENES AGENCY

Sonigro carlos CASTELLIR Sanchez

SHE CAREE

JO BORDEOS DISSER

REPORT NO.

0: 316/00687-60

DATE DISTR 18 August 1964

NO: PAGES 1313

RETEXENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

HERD REPORTA

sounce a forner Cutas is officer uso sortegith the Cuban

Tate ligence Sorvice until April 1954

Headguarters. C

ommonts

he rollowing reportes osa of a series containtag ne sonarty

Information provided by the source and lacludos supplemental

igformation from the records of this Agency

•It as requested that the addressees take no actioa da 2ay

of tho individuals mentioned in the personality reports.

without farst checking with this agoncy:

1.:

Benigno Carlos CASTELLAR Sanchez nas such la Cuba by sourcc

prior to April 1904.

PreviCuSy CASTELLAR WaS In LariCO

on behalf of ho Direccion General de Intoligencia General

Directorate of Intelligence = Dol). If is rot knowifor

sure if he was chief of the

baI in lexico, but he is at

least i DoI officor thore.: It is balroved that bees still

connücted with thu DoI:

2. CastelLaR was born ubout 1930; 1s tall, neighs abous 15e,soa,s,u,zon

pounds, has a strong build,

blaok hair

and black-eyes.

Headquarers comments

i.

The records of this Agency raveal that on the cigar of

7 September 1958, one Benigro CISTELLAR Sarickez, possibiy,

identical with the above Subject,

was oreinf turny-seven

Cubans attendirig a nesting at the home of. Emilio Aliredo

de Jesus

ARAGONES y NavarIo, a Cubaa exile, at 450330

• 25, dexico, D. F.

This information is documentarg'..

2.

• A source,

untested, in a report dated 29 October 1962,

stated that one Benigno CASTELLAR, the Cuban Carsercial

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEL

STATE

I AiMY

I NAvY

1 21R

I NiSe

TFET 21

RE? CINCLINT MINOSO E FIS

(Noro: Fa'i sirribution indicatod by "#"")

2

3/51305:3/75/51R

JITE LOR

5:45:12

.1.7

LICITIA

3/pV

15-2537 ; 41-298

TO PROJECTIO.

SSCX-310, 00057-51

MK: LS: A

HE 1 62,, CI%,

Materi parlins MiTe

RID I

¡ ¿lAISON

201-7285S9

---

## Page 2

14.00000

:

103 04: 500014

M10erng

---

## Page 3

SECRAT

NO

FOrEIGS: DISSEN

CI. 316/0001 2

6.

7.

draco in Mexico and possibly identical with Ponigno Carlos

casteir Sanchek, was responsible for buying products th

•crico for cauan.uso

A 10 Fobruary 1963, report stated that Baigno CASTELLAR Sanchez

was the Cuban Commercial Attacho, In Mexico and a suspectod

0=2 afont.

BenIGnO CIrlOS CASTELLAR Sanchez, Cuban Connerical Attache,

opartod soxico for Habana via Cuban Airlines on 22 March 1963

with his wifo and child Ho stated that ho expectud to roturn

to lexico. This information was received on 25 March 1963,

tron a fairly reliablo source. A report dated 13 June

1963, stated that CASTELLAR roturned to Mexico on & June 1963

A usually rollable source, In a report dated 17 June 1963,

stated that Bonigno CASTELLAR Sanchoz, tho Cornercial Attache

of the Cuban umbassy in Mixico and in charge of buying, was

beind coplaced by Oscar CONCIPCION Mendoza.

espected to arrive. In Mexico City on 17 June 1963, and

CASTELLAR plannes to loave filtoon days later

- Tho forlowing biographic Information on Bentero Carlos CASTELLAR

Sanchez; was reccived by a representativo of this Agency ini

•dexico in a report datod 27 June 1963:

Benigno Carlos CASTELLAR Sanchez; the Commercial Attache

at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico

He carried passport number D/62/479.

was born about. 1940g.

ikTIWi Fernandez de Castella,

carried passport number

D/62/525.

Rafaol CASTELLAR MARTINEZ,

carried

passport number D/63/4.

CASTELLAR arrIVEd In MexiCO

on 27 August 1962, and resided

at Alvaro Obrezon 123-605,

lexico, D: F.. Ho was a suspected G-2 Agent.

A usually rollable source with good accuss to travel information

reported that on 27 August 1963, Benigno CASTELLAR, diplomatic

passport number 62/479; Ada MARTINEZ, diplomatic passport number

52/528; and Ratael CAstIlLar, Infant diplomatic passport numbex

52/528, loit doxico City for Habana.

8 ..

In a report dated August 1963, from a glOup ol Cuban emigre's

trained in the techniques of information collection and who have

provided useful reports for two years, provided the following

Information on Benigno: CASTELLAR Sanchez:

SECRET

NO

FOREIGN DiSSEM

---

## Page 4

SE CREA

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

=3=

стопрогону

A Concorical

born about 1937)

as five teet ten arches tam

pounds; whiter with black nair and black

• Ho

has stron achetic build and core a largo

well srinaud auscache?

CASTEL

but:

Ras a serlous vosy

quiet, discreet:

and intollison:

in the company of Carlos RODR detrauget cHe-was

an active member of the Depare cento de Seburidad

dol Estado (Departuens

ot State Security

DSE) until

ho was apposited Connercial Attache. He was always

arned with a pistol.

SECR

• NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

