# 104-10074-10070

## Page 1

1104-10074-10070

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Supp

: 'Branch/OSS

CONFIDENT AL

REFERRACL:

MERIORAIDJM FUR THE RECORD

Atlanta Resident Office

ATL-21-75

21 February 1975

Please file in 404

Hit -

Latest Follow up to Call-In to Agency Leadquarters/John Daniel

* W1111anson* Carrollton, Georgia

AIZ-4-75, 14 Jazuary 1975, sane subject

andy.

warbiel

1. On 13 February 1975, Spechal Agent (foa) fustia vi the Spectal

Investigationa office of the IS Bureau of Cuatons Atlanta office

(Phone:

(404) 525-7731) called and wanted to speak to the writer of

this senoranius. He were out of town at the time and he asked the

secretary, who took bis call, to have us return his call Tuesday noring

(18 February) then ve raturned. We called him back the noraing of

18 February.

2. HI. Austin said that the reason he vas calling vas with regard

to a contact be inad had fron à friend of "Don Willianson" (the Ladividual

who had called our lgency and tho was the subject of the above raferenced

masoxandum). The information that Austin had to lapart vas essentially

a3 follows;

3. Willanson's friend, who was the one that Milllanson called us

about with regard to inforsation on the shipment of aras and the impendiug

overthrow of s foreign country (see citad nemorandun), had contacted Auatin

and asiced that Austin try to sai up a seeting batuean bia (lillianson's

friend) and us (Austia and Paterson). He had provided dustla with our nara

and phone nunber which had been given hin by illltanson. Wa told Austin

that se had oaly talked with illlianson one tlue-on the phone-when

Willtaneon had sought to set up a moating between us and his friend, and

that me had never net Hilllanson's friend and knew nothing abont him other

than what Willianson had told us on the phone.

Re told Austin that ve had

givea our nRas and offica phone number to Willlanson because Willlanson

had said his friend sould like to get in touch with us, and furtber told

his that siace that tins (7 Jaquary 1975) w9 had had no call fron him shich,

ve sald, seemed atrange for soneone apparenily so cager to contact as, Me

inforved dustin that we often get crans calls and ta don't juat go around

Beating wich people who call up on some weird subject. We said that we vere

soTTy now that se hail ever given Hilliasson our nunber. He also told Austis

that the type of Inforantion that lilliosson apole of shipmat of arms to

other countzles-vas sonething entirely outalde our area of jurisilction.

and that should Willlanzon's friend call or had he called se would nurge

Etat he provide his inforation to the FBI.

1101°

FELL TEXT COPY - 20

CUT MEIEACE

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 010650

GONROENTME

26454

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIBENTIAL

AFL-21-75

21 February 1975

.?=

austin said that Williangon, himsalt, had not been in touch with

him. He understood Austin to say that Willianson's friend was a past

infomer. Austin said that the last time he had talked with hiu ha bad

told Austin about a

"super dope deal" that apparently Custoas was never

able to confira.

Austin described him as one who seems to have 'flights

of fancy,

and at one point in his couversation with us he said,

really a llttla leary of the guy."

According to what Austin said,

Willianton's friend had told his that "they" (whoever "they' nay ba) were

running guns tuto Nicaragua and luto Mexico supposedly through the Port

of Laredo, Teras. Austin said that thay had had peopla doinz some

checking at laredo and 80 far nothins had checked out.

5. Wiltangon's friend had told dustin that he was only going to

do this (provide information) for the soney," and nolaty was discussed.

When the figure of 550,000 uns brought up, Ullllanson's frland Indignantly

told justla sords to the effect:

se more than that just for tha Infornation."

. When Austla told bia to go

ahead, villasson's frlend said 'Wall, an a untter of fact, this Erlend of

aire (apparently referring to Willianson) already has."

Then he asked

that Austin as a lavor act as a go-between and set up a neeting for him

u1ch 18. All of which led to Austin's calliag ua.

He felterated to

Anatin that ve had no desire to beet with Willlauson's friend.

He hope ha

will get the mesaage ard thai ulll ba the end of thia wante of tim.

6.

We explained to Austia our mission aa collectors of foreizu

Infomation, and Austin sald that lf asything should turn up that sould bo

of legitinate interest to us he would let us know. austla was very

frlandly throughout and ve thanked bis as a naiter of courtesy for having

gone to the trouale of contacting us.

JOHN R. PSIERSON

IlPatarson: mw

iffice of Chief, DED

(D. Zelner)

/Support Sraach/o$g

Serriess Brancia

E & INDE! CL BI 010550

COMEDEN DAL

24404

---

