# 104-10227-10056

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10227-10056

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

indiar inion ro mis

EASONID MESSAGE

mortart To

L7IC.455

=9:0H1T999

10

PROM:

ACTION:

INFO

R

UMWAVE

DAS 100 (IN COPY SLATICO AL 0OD1, DE ASPIL)

D/DCI, DOP,

ADDi, CA?, Ca/SEa, CA/pROs,

cl, cl/ops, c1/10 2,

11, 51/0, 81/ 1N7 2,.

10, 00/1, AD/E1 2, AO/NE, 3/c 2.

MoB

•419-194-05.

ji

APR 12 8:21Z 63

PRIORITY

IN 16508

TOES > 3 - 3/654, 173

PRITY DIR CITE WAVE 7048

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: IRWAHOO

1

FOLLOWIG REPRESENTS A COME LANIO:: OF CORMATiO:,

FROM AMBUCKLE-1, AMSIGH-I (PARA 8), AMYUM-: (PARA 31, AMOT-2D-FPARA

27), AMSHADY-I (FIELO COMMENT PARA 9), AMADE-I (FARA 18), NO MARAZZ-1.

BECAUSE OF THE IMPOSSIBILITY OF FRESENT

UNG A COHESIVE REPORT WERE LACH

ITEM TO BE PROPERLY SOURCED, THIS VARIATION

BEING FORWARDED:

TILED 128143Z

REPORT CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL COLTROLLED DISSEM

XFG-2665

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: EXILE COMMUNITY REACTION TO THE CRISIS IN THE REVOLUTIO ARY

COUNCIL

iw COMMENT:

DEO DISSEMINATIO:: iN: THE ATTACHED

TO POrT!"' di!

CADLE HAS BEEN

MADE O! ?:L 11.- NOENCY PENDING

RELIET DI THE ACTION UNIT.

ROUTING

R:"1103

19.124-25

TOCS

PRECEDENCE

FOUTINE

TRIORITY

BATT DIS DOG TR

SAs/Esidi

DESTROY.

Cooy No.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

to do Coede port ma

insertrica.

Calis.

баі? ВідлОСТису иыт.".

SOUTING

is!

FE.CM

ACTION:

INiFO

IN 16628

TDCS

Eli: 9-11 APR 63

PADA: US 11 APR 63

UFG 2665

APPR: 2 THAT THIS IS PEFRESUNTATIVE OF THE CUBAN

EXILC ORIN!O%

SOURCES: SEE PARA I BELOW!

P

IVI COMMENT:

TOCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRiORITY

CATE DISTRIEUTED

BASTO ON.

LIAISON

CRATERIC

A SIGHUCHO ET DUNER INAN iSSUING DIFICE 1S

FROHIBITED

Cary No.

---

## Page 3

4-00000

SIGNATURE

CONFIDENTIAL

1u'arn Fillod Ing

COUNIRY

SyBJECT

FINFURMATION REPONT TEJECRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

spoolalon

CLASSIFICATION - DE SEMINATION CONTROLS

ALFORINO, TOCS.

DATA O1STR

PRESCOENCE;

REFERENCES,

IN

1.6688

DATE OF

INFo.

'LACE!

DATE ACC

APPRAISAL

FIELD REPORI NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

!: FIELD COMMENT? THE FOLLOWING REPRESENTS OPINIONS, BY VARIOUS

LEADING MEMEERS OF THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY WHO HAVE BEEN PARTICIPATING

' ACTIVELY IN THE CURRENT CRISIS REVOLYING AROUNO THE RESIGNATION OF JOSE"

¿ MIRO CARDONA FROM THE CUBAN REVOLUIONARY COUNCILS:

2. GERARDO RODRIGUEZ REPEAT RODRIGUEZ MIRANDA, ACTING CHIEF OF

THE DIRECTORIO MAGISTRAL REVOLUCIONARIO. (DMR, REVOLUTIONARY, TEACHERS'

DIRECTORATE), DURING THE TEMPORARY ABSENCE OF OSCAR DE LA VEGA, ,

SAID THAT THE OMR IS CLOSELY WATCHING THE CRISIS IN, THE. CONSEJO REVO-

LUCIONARIO CUBANO (CRC, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL),: BUT. FROM AN

INDLPENDENT STANOPOINT: THE DMR DOES NOT EXPECT TO MAKE ANY PUBLIC

CONFIDENTIAL,

"CLASSIFICATION - CONIROLS CONTROLS.;

PLANNINGSO DONE ALOESCO SECOND ASA MIC ANO JUDIA OCDI ONE I OCE

# INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

A IKO OSSOLITISRENOVA EDITIONA.

i..

113-20)

---

## Page 4

14-00000

TURSEUNATON CONTROLS

IN 16628

TOCS

STATEMENT RELATIVE TO THE ISSUE BETWEEN THE CRE AND THE GOVERNMENT OF

THE UNITED STATES, AND REGARDIESS OF THE FINAL OUTCOME, THE OMR DOES

NOT FEEL THAT IT WILL BE AFFECTED. (FIELO COMMENT: GENEROSO CAMPOS

REPEAT CAMPOS MARQUETTI AND MANOLO RAY REPEAT RAY: RIVERO ALSO REMAINING

SILENT.)

3. THE MOVIMIENTO DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO (MRA, REVOLU-

TIONARY RECOVERY MOVEMENT), AS A GROUP, DID NOT WANT TO SUPPORT

JOSE MIRO REPEAT MIRO CARDONA, BUT FELT THAT THEY HAD LITTLE CHOICE

BUT TO SUPPORT MIRO AS TO DO OTHERWISE WOULD LEAVE THEM OPEN TO THE

ACCUSATION THAT THEY WERE SUBSERIBING TO A SITUATION WHICH MIRO

FOUND UNACCEPTABLE: (FIELD COMMENT:.. ACCORDING TO CESAR BARO, MIRO HAD

A LIST OF INDIVIDUALS WHO, HE SAID, WOULD BETRAY HIM (MIRO); THIS

LIST INCLUDED VARONA, PEREZ, BERMUDEZ, ANTONIO MACEO, AND JOSE

FERNANDEZ REPEAT FERNANDEZ EADUE.)

4. AT. THE 8 TO 1S APRIL MEETING OF THE, CFC, THE REPRESENTATIVES

OF THE VARIOUS GROUPS WERE TOLD BY ANTONIO SILIO THAT THE FINAL STATE-

MENT OF THE CRE WOULD BE ISSUED AS A "UNANIMOUS" STATEMENT DESPITE

POSSIBLE ABSTENTIONS UN THE PART OF SOME ORGANZATIONS, AND THAT

ABSTAININO GROUPS WOULD BE DEALT: WITH LATER. ACCORDING TO GILBERTO

MONTENCERO OF THE 30 NOVEMBER GROUP, THE FRENTE OSRERO REVOLUTIONARIO

'MOCRATICO GUSANO ¡FORDO, REVOLUTIONARY DEMOCRATIC CÜBAN WORKERS'

MUT! O LO CRISISHTO FOR ITS "TREACHERY" IN SECONDING THE STAND

KIN BU INTONIO A DE VARONA REPFAT VAROCNTORECO MELINST MIRI

GECIANATION CONTÃO

---

## Page 5

119

110i5

2uau5o

0250.

¿TOM - DISEMINATION CONTROLS

IN

TOCS

16686

PAGA

SANTIAGO COBOS, AND TWO STUDENTS, MEMBERS OF THE MRR BUT NOT MEMBERS

• OF THE MAR DELEGATION TO THE CRE URGED SOLID BACKING FOR MIRO IN HIS

==:

• STAND AGAINST US AURHOTITIES.

0.

5. JESUS FERNANDEZ OF THE 3Q. NOVEMBER GROUP WHO ATTENDED THE CRE

MEETING. WAS IN FAVOR OF THE COMPLETE PUBLICATION OF MIRO'S STATEMENT, !.

AND ITS DISTRIBUTION THROUGHOUT LATIN AMERICA; PRECILIANO FALCON AND

GILBERTO MONTENEGRO ALSO OF THE 38 NOVEMBER GROUP ECHOED THESE STATEMENTS.

6. AT THE CRC MEETING AFTER MIRO HAD READ HIS STATEMENT HE

OPENED THE MEETINO FOR DISCUSSIONS FROM THE FLOOR, TULIO DIAZ REPEAT

DIAZ RIVERO SAID THAT THE CRC. COULD NOT BREAK WITH. THE UNITED STATES

GOVERNMENT; THIS ANNOYED MIRO BECAUSE THE PREVIOUS WEEK: DIAZ HAD STATED

' THAT THE CORPORACIONES ECONOMICAS (ECONOMIC CORPORATIONS) WERE CONSIDER"

• ING RESIGNING FROM THE CRO BECAUSE OF A LACK OF US POLICY.

• 7• CESAR BARO ASKED MIRO IF HE (MIRO) INTENDED RESIGNING

AND MAKING PUBLIC HIS STATEMENT DESPITE WHAT THE CRO MIGHT SAY, MIRO

REPLIED THAT HE WOULD DO WHATEVER THE CRO DECIDED HE SHOULO,DO.

8. AT THE CONCLUSION OF THE MEETING VARONA SAID THAT CERTAIN

UNIDENTIFIED PEOPLE WERE VISITING "HARVARD BOYS" TO WIN THEIR BACKING,

AND WERE SUBMITTING PLANS FOR OPERATING FROM CENTRAL AMERICAN

COUNTRIES. VARONA ALSO SAID THAT HE WILL BE RESIGNING FROM THE CRO

A:VD IN THE FUTURE WILL ACT. ONLY ON HIS OWN.

9. THERE ALSO SEEMS TO BE THE OPINION THAT THE CRO IS ACTUALLY

CHANGING DI ID MiROAS A MEANS DE SAVIUS THE EXISTENCE OF THE CRCI

LASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTAOL

---

## Page 6

WHil

A DEODENTIAL

TROs

THE FRE POES NOT PANT TO MORE PURLIE THE STATEMENT RY MIRO AS THEY

PEER THATHIS WIZE PESTERN THE ARE LA

TA PERO PIMIGON LOGGININ GERADE DRAGHE MPETH SE MIAP AS PRESIPENT

1166012

PADE

FFECTIVE

NA

SUSAN 4.

AGO, THE SPANISH LANQUARE RADIA IN THE MIAMI AREA HAS MAD EXTENSIVE

COVERAGE OVER THE GRE GRIBIS, MANY HAVE EXPRESSED THE DRINION THAT THE

RESIGNATION OF MIRO WAS NULLIFIED WHEN THE CRO BACKEO MIRO, SOME

FEEL THAT MIRO'S RESIGNATION WILL DE EFFECTERS HOWEVER THE MAJORITY OF

THE SPANISH NEWS BROADCASTERS ARE UTILIZINO THIS CRISIS TO ASK FOR

GREATER UNITY AMONG THE CUBAN EXILES. THERE ARE OTHERS WHO BELIEVE

THAT MIRO IS ONLY TRYING. TO CONVEY THE IMPRESSION THAT ME CAN DISAGREE

WITH UNITED STATES POLICY, AND THAT HE REALLY DOES NOT INTEND TO RESION.

IN THIS MANNER THE MIRO IMAGE WOULD BE ENHANCED BY AN AURA OF

INDEPENDENCE, WHILE ATIL CONTINHINO IN HIS CARAFITY AS A TRAL OF

WASHINGTON. LUIS DEL POZO, FORMER MAYOR OF HABANA, SAID ME NAD

RECEIVED A LETTER FARM CURA WISH INDICATEP THAT THERE IN CURA WERE

FOLLOWING THE MATTER GLOBELTO THE CUBAN INTERNAL MORE APREARR TO BE

ONE, FOR REPLACINO MIRO.

10.

ONE LEADINO EXILE AFFICIAL SAID THAT MIRO WANTED TO PROVE

THAT HE WAS NOT IN THE VEST POCKET" OF THE US REPARTMENT OF STATE,

MHA HAS HE WAG REALLY AGRIPEESENTATINGTORE HE GUBANET A

THE POIN

SONMENTAL

13'

---

## Page 7

14-00000

11.,i.8,-'

11.555.

: 16.6

Liter.

GENTIAL

WEREN-OREAN CONDENS

TOCS

166NE

PAGE

HAVING GONE AS FAR AS HE HAS, HE CANNOT BACK DOWN. IT HAS BEEN RUMORED

R

THAT MIRO WILL LEAVE THE UNITED STATES, AND THAT MANY MEMBERS OF THE

•CRE WILL FOLLOW HIM; THERE ARE ALSO RUMORS THAT ANOTHER ORGANIZATION.

¿WITH MIRO AT ITS HEAD HAS ALREADY BEEN DISCUSSED AND IS IN THE FORMATIVE

*STAGES, (FIELO CONMENTS THE GENERAL OPINION BY THE MAR IS THAT MIRO

WILL NOT RESIGN, AS HIS MAIN PUPPOSE WAS A POLITICAL MANEUVER TO GAIN

THE SUPPORT OF THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY AND TO DISPEL THE OPINION THAT

HE IS MERELY A TOOL OF. THE AMERICAN GOVERNMENT; MIRO HAS ACCOMPLISHED

THIS EXILE UNIFICATION.

11. EUSEBIO MUJAL HAS ISSUED A DECLARATICN IN SUPPORT OF MIRO:

MIJAL IS NOW WORKING ON CARLOS PRIO REPEAT PRIO SOCCARAS AND JULIO

I GARCERAN REPEAT GARCERAN DE VALL Y SOUSA ASKING THEM TO COME OUT OPENLY !.

• IN SUPPORT OF MIRO:

12. THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUESLO (MRP, PEOPLES

REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT)

IS DIVIDED IN ITS PERSONAL FEELING RELATIVE

• i

TO MIRO; HOWEVER THE GENERAL CONCENSUS IN THE MRP IS THAT MIRO'S

FRECIPITOUS STATEMENTS AND ACTIONS. ARE BASED ON INDICATIONS RECEIVED

DURING HIS LAST TRIP TO WASHIPISTON THAT HE (MIRO) PROBABLY WOULO BE

REPLACED IN THE NEAR FUTURE AS HEAD OF CRC.

13. FIELO DISSEM: STATE (MIAMI).

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSITICATIDN - DISIEMINATIGA CONTROLS

---

