# 104-10192-10016

## Page 1

14.00000

104-10192-10016

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Manuel Antonio RAY I Rivero

Manuel RAY vas born 1a Habana, Cuba, on 13 June 1924.

He was educated. In Cuba and became a very able construction

engineer. In April, 1958, having becone rebellious under

the Batista regime, be jolned the Clule Resistance Moresent

(Movimiento de Risistancia Civica -- MRC) and vas named

secretary-general of the organization. At the same time,

he becáme a mander of the national directorate of the 26th-

of-July. Movement and vas responsible for coordination between

the two groups.

RAY worked closely with Fidel Castro for the rest of

1958, travelling frequently to the Sierra Maestra for con-

ferences ulth biu. After Batista's fall, RAY was appolatad

Minister of Public Works In the provisional government of

Manuel Urrut1a..

RAY took office on 7 January 1959, and on

the same day he way also put in charge of the National Bread

• Board.

Altbough RAJ remained a liberal and continued to be pro-

revolutionary, be became increasingly resentlul of the cou-

munist domination of the Castro regine. H18 dissatisfaction

became known to Castro, and in Novenber of 1959 be was ra-

placed as Minieter of Public Works by Captain Osmany

Cienfuegos, a communlat. Presumably be vas also disaiased

fron the National Bread Board.

RETURN TO CIA:

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-2-

RAY vas unable to kpep a docent job aftor bis dionlesal

by Castro, and he vas under constant survelllance that

practically arounted to house arrest. In spite of Castro's

precautions, bovever, RAI maintained contact with the MRR

and, through bembers of that group, with ants-castro more-

sents 1a and out of Cube. By 3 June 1960, after he had

become nearly destitute because of the impossibility of

exployuent, RAY's fOllowera and associates began to plain

bis exfiltration from Cuba so *hat be could becone a more

effective rallying point for anti-Castro movements in exile.

RAY, however, decided to remain in Cuba and participate

directly in clandestine activities against Castro. He

Joined a group called Accion Democratica Revolucionarla (ADR)

and soon becabe one of its leaders. The ADR appears to be

the first organisation of its kind which can be considered

a serious threat to Castra's regime, and has been the targot

of several overtures fron the FRD to Join forces. One of

the primary reasons for the ADR's attractireness 1s RAY's

connection with 1t.

03

LE. H. LOUDREGAN, Jr.

WH/4/PA

7 september 1960

---

