2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN SURED RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
- * OLt

Mar 1 9 18 AN°T8
OLC 78-1920
1 May 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting With House Select Committee on Assassinations
(HSCA) - 1 May 1978

1. (S) On1 May 1978, a meeting was held with HSCA representatives
and FBI representatives. Present from the HSCA were: G. Robert Blakey,
Chief Counsel and Director; Bill Triplett, Gaten Fonzi, and Edwin Lopez.
Present from the FBI were: Danny Coulson, John Kaul and Jim Freeman.
Also present were Norbert Shepanek, 0/SA/DO/O; Patrick Carpentier, of
OLC, and myself.

2. (S) Mr. Blakey called the meeting to discuss Bernardo de Torres,
who is purported to be a potential assassin and who was purported to be in
Dealey Plaza on 23 November 1963. De Torres was scheduled to appear
in executive session before the HSCA on 2 May 1978. Mr. Blakey opened
the meeting criticizing the FBI for not notifying him (of their_curent _)

(operational interest in de Torres) until 1 May even though de Torres had

een subpoenaed for the last 30 days. Mr. Coulson responded that the FBI
(an_operational relationship with de Torres in January 1878 and he requested
that the HSCA (hot divulge that rela’ ip in its hearings. Prior to 1976,
Mr. Coulson, on behalf of the FBI, denied any interest in Bernardo]

\de Torreg .

3. (S) Mr. Blakey then turned his attention to the Agency's response to
his written request for any and all files on de Torres. Mr. Shepanek
pointed out that although there had been an earlier difficulty in locating the
201 on de Torres because of a matronymic/patronymic filing problem, the
HSCA had been given access to all files over a month ago. Mr. Shepanek
acknowledged that third agency documents were inadvertently left in the file
which was provided to HSCA researcher Edwin Lopez. Mr. Lopez took notes
upon these documents and submitted his notes for review at which time the
error became known. The third agency documents, FBI items, were forwarded
to Mr. Coulson on 28 April (Friday) for FBI review and possible release to
HSCA. Mr. Coulson acknowledged that he had these materials and hoped to
make them available to the Committee at FBI Headquarters immediately
following the meeting.

dips tu: SA/C/LA
7 O/E xof CL



14-00000, | i

- a (S) Mr. Blakey, in conclusion, sought a statement ‘rom (both the EBL)
: fad the Agency regarding any relationships with de Torres. 'BI responsed)
at they began an operational rélationship in January 1976, inued to hav.
at relationship, aad had no other relationship prior to January J97
Mr. Shepanek indicated that the Agency had a relationship with de Torres during
the days of Brigade 2506 and that we had no further relation with him.

RODGER SZGABRIELSON

Distribution:
1 - 0/SA/DO/O - Mr. Shepanek

ws
imal
>
Fa
|

