# 104-10150-10030

## Page 1

•104-10150-10030-

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

;,..

i..1l...

AC TONIGiLISSE:

1-19211

COUNTRY.

SUBJECT

TO TALI AND SOVIET ELOC

CIFICIALS:

REPORT NOi: C5:-$/31.9,99

DATE DISTR, !

16 JANULPT $754

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

4.л:

DATE OF

• INFO.

24 MONTEER 1963

PLACE &

RAINE, BANGKOK

DATE ACO. CITE DECESEN 196

THiS IS UNEVALUATED

EARL JARTY 10644)CHED REPORT NO. FEB 7675]

INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OY CONTENT IS TENTIA VE

SOURCE:

?,P! I - A BUROPEAT BUSINESSMAN (B) WHO HAS OCCASIONAI CLOSE CONTAIT UTTE

SOVIET ELOC TRADE AND GOVERNHAVI OFFICIALS.

A PRATAL OF CONTENT:

ADZHUBEY, PROBABLY MADE THE COMMENTS AS REPORTET:

DURING A RECEPTION AT THE SOVIET EMBASSY, ALLISEY ADZHUBEY

BURTS COVERMENT'S ERROR IN OVERTAPEAS IZING INDUSIRY IT LEE SXFIS*

DIOU TURE "HE URGES THIS SOVIET DIPLOMATIC COUMUNITY TO INCREASE I

TART WIELDE THAT PEOPLE IN ORDER TU TMPROVE REPORTING ON LOCAL

SCOTTIONS, ADZEUELY FELT THE TIAIS SHOULD KION INE, SOVIETS PETTER TUE.

PROSEY SAID SEATO, CENTO AND NATU ARE USELESS, THAT THERE IS INOSE

AS' WELL' AS LAOS, AND THAT TAILAND SHOULD LEAVE THE CRETE TILL

I USER. LATER COMERVIS BE ANZRUBEY TO PRIME MINISTER TIANON PIT

C: SIG KHVISTER THANAT ON POOR PRESS COVERAGE OF SOVIET EYEVIS ARE MERTION

6. -21507, 770:

12'267 A RECEPTION GIZI IN HIS HONOR AT THE SOVIET EMBASSY, BANGKO

NOVER 1903, "ALEKSEY AZHUBEY," IVASTIA EDITUR AND NIRUSSOEY'S

30-IN-LATI, DELIVERED A SPEECH TO SOVIET BLOC REPRESENTATIVES WO MAD 21:

PRIST TO STAY AFIER THE RECEPTION.

ADZHUBEY EPRESSED DEEP PERSONAL AT

BECAL PERRELLAT TIE DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENADE AND ZULOGION EIS DE

SER WORLD LENSION. CONCERNING TEE SOVIET UNION, ADZEUBEY 52.

•I GOVERNMENT HAS ERRED IN PLACING TOO GREAT AN ENFRASTE Di T

ATE WITH TOO LITTLE MODIT OR EFFORT FOS IN AERICULTRA

OF BE POPULATION:

FLIND IO THE SFORTAGE OF WREAT I PES"

FOOL IN GENERAL. ADZURES EMPRASIZED THAT MEMBERS GE TRY END LA DI

NO DERANITY IN TETAND SEMID MAKE CREADER EFTORIS DO COT :

DO, 70 LEARN MORE ABOY. THE IAND AND IIN, EBOPLE

JD MORE CUMPPETISAIVE SEPORTING ON LOGAE CONDITIOT

TER, E SIALED, TAT SONS CONTACTS MAY NOT 'AGREE WiS

3.-33

"FACOSOPEY- THEFLAG MANY OTUER ARRAS ON WETCE

AT SOVIETS SEOULD TER MORE APOST TRAILAND, BUI

FOR IT& TRAL 70 10".

_SOVIET BETTER.

AID

42627

22045

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

PUB

.

---

