# 104-10222-10043

## Page 1

104-10222-10043

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PENIS!: SELECI

CHERS

FILE: TITLE/NUMBER/VOLLNE:

. KARTY, FLOBYAN R:

INCLUSIVE DATES: - 10

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

July 1951-936-1922

OP

ROOM: _ 5=13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DUE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

RIVIERED RY

(PRINT N:05)

SIGNATURE OF

REVIEKING OFFICIAL

ПаУтУ171 490-150941

AN EOCENTS MING BE COPIED OR RECOND I20Y TiLS FILE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Ausonnel Hitisas:

Aftur Mexico Citu, Dosreminit

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SEGRET

(899981319880)

XXF

SEALAL MURDEN

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

21 SSPTIMBER 1963

009274

J. MATURE OF

PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIUNMINT

•. FUNDS

ст то у

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATICNS

XX

се тО ст

CHATUF K.

ECTIVE DATE ACQUESTED 8, CATACONY OR SPLOTMENT

091Ї 163

FELULAR

%. COST CRATER MO. CHARON.

ASLE

L235-5700-2000 dIN

10. LOCATION OR OrFICHAL STATIOn

DDP

BPANCH 3

MEXIÇO, MEXICO STATION®

CHiY

S8. POSITION TITLE

OPS OFF ICER

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHIDUL& (GS.LB. ASC.)

|1S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

13. POSITION MUKHEN

418

CRO& ANO STEP

1D. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

17, SALARY OR RATE

GS

10. REMARKS

0136.01

15 9290

FROMS DDP/H/LOO MEXICO STATION

Recorded by

CSPD

SEAJONESTINO OFFICIAL

DATE SIGNED

4:1179,

57162

ROEERS D.

CASHMAN, C/NT/PERS

9/12/6-3

190.

SIGNATURES

SOFICER

SPACE BELOW FOM EXCLUSIVE L'SE

THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL.

TEZ. STATION

13186 MaDRi R. 10l is alain

CODE

Lapire any

DATE BIGNED

13 Sep 63

та

EXPIRE

o..

тт.

& SPECTAI

BISCUINCE

91, ПіВ(МУ?

150BS

:15

CODE

23. 391E CS LE.

но.

co.

•n.

3

51061/2

M':ANCE LATICH DATA

0499 773

EOD DATA

RED.

33, VES. FASTERCREE 38. 582V. SCRO.

cO2я

«cal

_•.

-41.- --197

19. CAFTED CATIENET

CANNESO

6001

P000 / 16MS

FEMI / MIALIN INSAID:E

63.505:8i Sf=J0111 8).

3:*$

ALDIOUS CrETEN: SIONICE DATO

c cot

600x

ease car:- 1151. 077

"or DATA

1=956

•rean 110416

bell: +10151891 6001

I1 map

2-81

A3.-P0S180N CONTROL CESTIFICATIOS

1r. c.p.

ADARUTAL

Teresh i Hapar

• 1152

SECRET

DATE NAPROVED

28p63)

111

---

## Page 4

4-00000

SECRET

(Then Pillad 1n)

- REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

XXB:

BRRIAL

DATE PAIDADCO

17 JULY 1963

MAME (LOOR.

009274

MATURE ON

A. FUNDS

OROA

REASSIGNMENT

у то у

се то у

OMATIONS

у то ст

C* TO CY

EARTY, E R.

LIP ECTIVE DATE ALQUESTEO S.

CATROONY OF EMPLOYMENT

06 109 163

REGULAR

. COST. CENTER NO, CHARGI:

•.

SUTHONITY (COOPIOREd!

Anit

4135-5700-1000k

offee or Pardonnal

1O, LOCATION OF OFFICIX

DDP

WH

BRANCH 3

MEXICO, MEXICO STATION

OPS OFFICER

1A. CLASSIFICATION BEHROULE (GS.LD.

GS

1S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

City.

MEXICO

D, MEXICO

POSITION NUMBER

400

- 0.

GRADE AND STEP

-12--1

1S. CAREER SINVICE DRBIGNATION

D

17. BALANY OR DATE

+367587902

FROM:

DDP/FE/2120/BANGKOK STATION/OPERATIONS BRANCH

tray

27

1 COPY TO FINANCE DIVISION AND OFFICE OF SECURITY

Recorded by

CSFD

EJP

ROBERT D.

19, OCTOCO PO, EMPIGT. LER.

DATE SIGNED

CASHMAN, C/WH/PER$

718/63

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE

USE

33 11 005

190.

SIGNATURE OF CAREER

SERVICE APPMOVING

OFFICER

¡DATE SIGÑEO

INE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

39,10

8. 018 (A9:90.

45015

Birdie ni Co

* -ASCA

v1.

POLEFOETIE, DA DESO, "SNO, LATE

C330

22.

157. кCA:. COP. DATE

но,.

-5.0.

...

Cost

ARTICUS SevERER

+58075-57 94.6-168

COSE

'1OS COATRDS CIRTIFICATICS

Rinne, 07/25/63

*CAN 1152 12 X

3

01 10612

EL SEPAGALICE 32. CCORCCRICRSCRNGELEATICA DAT

'o..

•л.

PEOD DAT

38, CARLEE CATICCar

--1240499.

cr9s..

PHON/:1HP

coor

+ 1897-199-6055

•OMAN ADI CURRE 6558

11я 1 017008/001

;:"

3 3°11

ADPROVAL

SECRÉT

20-80:2111

36. SEX

168 C0'0

cost

900119618 060

1r to.

DATE APAROVEO

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Jo lemo

SECRET

Fellad in)

MANE OF EMPLOVE (LADI

Sart, Fliryan

HAME ANO RELATIONSHIP OF

he - Desseren

There is on file In the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

Servlces Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disablilty Clalm

File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an Illness, -

injury, or death incurred on 23 heé &

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

DATECT

З MAY

SIMILAL

Detelica

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAJM FILE

10.8, 1076

SECRET

63-091

---

## Page 6

14-00000

Picsonnel, Actions :

pair to Mexico City

AssiaNnent

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECERT

REPRODUCTION MASTERS

With

BIOGRAPIIC PROFILE

Care

CONFIDENTIAL

(then Fillod In)

MOTICE OF CREDITABLE SERVICE

[POR LLAVE. PURPOSES

PREPARE IN ORIGINAL

FACH STAVDAÃD TOXH AÕ, IJ1 ANÓ FORÑARD TO FINAÏCE OFFICE

SANE

llast

FIrst,

OFFICE laI

• (P)

Schđ

Po..

- Ur

40

SERVICE COMPUTATION DATE:

28 Dao 1948

1080 80.

2 Harrh 19FS

37-157

1210580*1695 14

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

ORIGINAL

BroGraphic Parapolo

sitize version in fole )

---

## Page 9

14-00000

Peasonnel Actions Attac

ізрас

Mexico CITy AssiGnment

---

## Page 10

14-00000

wl

ACCOPDANCE WITH THE

FROVISIONS OF PURLIC LA

87-793

AND Del

MEMORANOUM DATED 1

AUGUST 1956à SALARYIS ADJUSTED

AS FOLLOWS.

EFFECTIVE S JANUARY 19F4.

NAME

SERLAL

ORGN FUNDS

GROST

OLD

SALARY

009274 91 900 CF GS 123

5100103

KARTY, FLORYANR.

SALARY

810.640

PSSTED ON

01-40

B. IAN 1964

PX5030

€.4

WH.:.

Sarial Ma

Mone

Con Conter Number

1WOF Hours

009274

OLD SALARY RATE

91016

Los EN Doto

Orado

3t00

64 700

NEW SALADY RATE

Satrey

CF

Allociloo Dors

PSI

TYPE ACTION

151

AOJ.

GS 12 2 8 9,790

11/29/62

G5 17°3

810,105 11/34163

Ramanhe and

NO EXCESS LWOP

IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

LHOP STATUS. AT. EMD OF. HAJPING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS

AUDITED BY.

1364

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE

AROVE

NAMED

EMPLOYEE IS

•.=.

OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATURES

this.

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

DATE TECT IL

"T 560

(438)

---

## Page 11

14-00000

DLS:

13

XX SEPT 63

SECRET

(Whon filor, 1s)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1, SERIAL MUMBIR

? NAME (LAST FIRST MIDOLE)

009274

S. MATURE OF PERSONNEL ALTION

KARTy, FLÖRYAN R

3. CATEGORY OF LAPLOYMINT

REASSIGNMENT

у то у

у 10 60

69 1 15163

T, COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABIE

REGULAR

D. ESC OR OINLA LEGAL RETRORITY

FUNDS:

" 10 Y

D. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

4135 57m0 1mmn

ID. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

5n USC 403 J

DOP /WH

BRANCH

3

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION

11. POSITION-TITLE

OPS OFFICER

1A. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (6S, 1D, 01e.)

1S. OCCUPATIOMAL SERIES

0136.01

TO. REMARKS

4020

MEXICO CITY e

12. P0.11109 NUMBER

MEXICO

12, SERVICE DESIGNATION.

0418

I6. GRADE AMD STEP

D

17. SALARY OR RAIE.

12 2

9790

POSTED DE:

No 101-44,5

ACTION: 20 Employ

CODE

Code

37

10

2D. JIE EXPIRES

11.

OFFICE (001NG

51400

79.SP161A1

REFERENCE

WH

SPACE BELON FON EXCLUSIVE ÜSE CY THE OFFICE OF PERSONINEY

72. STATION 23. PATEGREE

24. MOBIeS, 2S DATE OF BIRTN

CODE

CODE

Coco

TE TATE OF GRADE T Z7. OST GE TO

oл.

45(175

3

1

106112

RETIREMENI DAÍA

12. 660811110N/ CANCELLATION DATA

DATA CODE

17. 51658:18

Ta. sur

8E4 B3.

POD DATA

DS VET PRETENCE S. SEEN COMP, DATE

CODE

но.

LONG

COMP.

DATE

на

J8 CAREER CATEGORY

cice

FEGLI/ HEALIA INSURIECE

IN SCIAL SCIURITY MO

C6DR

41.

cute.

/AM

наси.

"Then

1E. LEAVE CAT.!

CODE

1. Yes

PREVIOUS GOVERNSENT SERVICE DATA

O. NO FARTIONS SERVICE

NASALAA IN SHUTICL

8. APIAR IN SERVICE ROSS INGE

FEDERAL TAS GATA

cock

DO TAY EXCUPTIONE

в - по.-.

14.

FORM EXECUTES

1. r88

8.66

STATE TAX SAIG

SIGHiATURE ON OTHER AUTHENTICATION

FOSTED

11:2

1150

Use Provous

Ediiion

SECRET

19959

(Witers Füled los

---

## Page 12

14-00000

МНС:

31 JULY 63

1. SERIAL MUMBLE

009274

2. MAME (LAST FIASE MIDCLE)

1*2843

L. MATURE OF PLASONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT.

у то (f

FUNDS

TO

(F TO 00

8. ORGAMIZALIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DOP WH

BRANCH

3

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION

11. POSITION TITLE

1S. 6893516ICA7ION SCHEDULE (6S, (8: 014.)

OPS OFFICER

GS

IS. OCCOPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

1L REMARKS

SECRET

(When Filled la)

NOTITICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

LARIYIFLCAYNA

IS CATEGORY OF CAPIOTMENT

63

REGULAR

1. CUS1 CARILL NO CHARGENBLE

E. OSE OR OIMER LEGAL AUTHORITI

4135 5700 1000

50 USC 403 J

10. LOCATION DE OFFICIAI STATION

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO

18 POSITION NUMBER

IJ. SERVICE DESIGNATION

040X

D

IN. GRADE. AMD STEP

17. SALARY OR RATE

122

9790

posal 22

-AG

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNER

19 ACTION 2O Traplay. 21. OFFICE COOING

12 STATIN:

23. INTEGREE

CODE

Codo

MUXERIC

ALPHRDETIC

CODE

CODE

24. 1891m

IS DATE OF BIRTH

Code

DA.

I WE ERike

по.

PA.

54700

19 SPECIAL

30.

REFERENCE

451175

REFIREMENT DATA

COPE

01|06/12

SI SEPARATION 2I

1. CORETON INCE ON RE

DATA CODE

De

тя.

Z6 DATE OF GRADE

127 DATE OF LES

19.

J5 SECURITY

REO NO.

1J4. SEX

EOD DATA

IS YET. PREFERENCE

COOR

16. SERV. COMP DALE| JS. LONE CCAP, DATE | 18 CAREER CAIIGORY

va.

I CODE

363r

"sur

39:

FEGIL/ HEALTN INSURANCE

O. slixta

1.988

10. SOCIAL SECURITY NO

6008

PREYIOUS GOVERMMENT SERVICE DATA

To. do prerious divice

1. M004818 IN SERVICE

B4RRR IN SURYITE LESS THAN I POSI

17 TEARE CAT

1O0E

48.

FEDERAL TAN •DATA

ORMENTINIES: COOR

169

8. 40

STATE LAX DATA

TORD PrECUTEO

SIGNATURE OF OTHER AUTHENTICATION

FOSTED

08/02/6325

1902

1150

Uso Prontous

Editsan

SECRET

i5i0

yol.

82:m 19;

---

## Page 13

14-00000

Fitness Rapporti contine pinine itter?.

3. Personel Ali der perial pair:

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET

filled la)

ПРОТЕСОГНА NUMDE

FITNESS REPORT

009274

SECTION A

P. NAME

GENERAL

8. DATE OF BIRTH

ORADE

8.80

09-12

•USITION

7. OFFIOIPIDR OF ASSICHUENT

S. CURRENT STATION

Ops offloor

Maxoco City

D, CHECK IXI TYPE OF APPUINTMENT

10. СМЕСЯ (II TIFE ОР ПРОРТ

CAREER

•TEMPORARI

•CARDIONMENT UARAVISOR

CARELA-DAQVIDIONAL (300 InDIRAIIOnA - SACHIon C)

DINKASDIONHENT EMPLOYEE

BARCIAL (SpACHt!)!

SPECIAL (SpACIly)I

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

18. REPORTINO PERIOO (FrUm 10)

Deconber

• 1904

1 Jan 196k - 22 Norember 1964

SECTION B

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W - Meak

Porfórmonco rangas

from wholly inadequete to slightly less phan sarislaçrony. A rating in this caragory roquires

'positluo comedial action. The noture of the estion .could range trem coursaling, to luether training, lo placing' on

probarion, lo repssignment. or to reporation. Describo oction roton or proposad in Saction C.

A • Adasuare

Porformance maolo all roquiremente, 8i is entiraly notisfactory end la choraciorizad nellhor by dolleloncy nor

oxcollonco.

p. Proficion!

Porformanco lo moro than solisfactory. Desired cosulas are boing produñad in a proficient mannor.

S . Strong

Porformanco la charactoriad by excoptional proliciancy.

O • Quissanding

Porformanco is sa ancoptional in relation to raguliomonis of the work and in comparison lo thi porformanco of

orhors doina similar, work ai lo marrant scial recognirion.

i SPECIFIC DUTIES.

List up to

six of tho

moat Importane apocitle durios performed during the raring period.

Insere rating lottor

which bast doscribas the

in

which amployao parlorns EACH sporitic duiy.

Carpico ONLY ellecteronoss in porformanco of phar duty.

All employoos

mith supervisory rosponsibilitics MUST bo ratod on sheir abilita do suporviso (enticare number al amployros ruperrinad).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

RATINO

LETTER

Case Officer for Sovlet accesa agents.

P

PACIFIC DUTY NO. &

Analyst work, proparing soviet peramility reports.

FECiFIC DUTY NO. S

Tranacription Into English of Russian technical product, and

proparation of intorprotativa rendition of same vien nacessary.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. A

3

A T+70

FA TIMO

LETTER

SPECIFIE DUTY NO. S

TING

LETTEA

P.3729 04 1

SPECIESE DUTY NO. $

RATINO

ETTEN

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Terate of peace do she end cho else iocio sentia nor pois sort ano

particutor liatentions se rolaria.

Bused on pous trumiadge al arplane's antrall fortunenco during

alero tha Inproe in the ronina doa correspondina do the diurnal stud dese declariy rollerto dia loval of portoroena.

7 JAM 155:-

Fa9M 45

C.0L111P041940 190191

SECRET

LETTE

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicoro digilleant afronythis or nookmardeo demonatralod in currant position kespir?,, racommendations for laining.

Stale auggestlona mado for Improroment of work par forsanto,

Amplity de englain rallugs alrail In Soction ll to provida bori

baala loe dorermining futuro personal action, Hunger ol portormanco of monogaial or suparileory dutles must bo descrimal,. i!

applicoble. As explained in the provioua (Itneas report, jubject was assignod to the statior

Sor the purpose of taking chargo of the station's jolst tolophone tap centar, a poslalor

for which ho was and 18 euinently quallflod by roasca, of oxtensive axperianio and out-

standing languago qualifications.

of circumstances boyond the control of subjoct and the station.

It vas therefore subsoquently docided to train subjoct locally, and have bla

gradually assuno caso officer ail analyat rosjusibilitles in certain simplor aspects

of the station's sovlat program.

O1ven tho circumstancon that subjoct had not had prior case officer of analyti-

cal experience (or oven any substantial past exposure to operations to five hia vicari-

ous exportenco) ho progrossed nore than adoquatäly in absorbing, the tralning offerod,

in assuming respons 1b1lity. Tor tuo sortet operations aid in the préparation of analytical

studios on the sovlat complomont. Airon the further chreumstances that the station ald

not bavo the tino to train hin nora than suporflelally, and that the oparations ho

handled voro bastoally.uncoupliceted, '1t wust bo otates that subject cannot now ba

considorod to be a casa officor..

Thla consolentious and Intolligent officer has high interest and enthuslan

for oporations, but it. 1s bolloved that his forto and luture. lles in the managemont of

technical operations.

This has boon recognizod also by Headquarters in the asalzhent

presantly plannod for him.

As a staff agent

remarkably woll to the

SECTION D

DATE

he and his fanily adapted themselves

altuation and to all otber environmontal factoris.

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

¡ CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, ANO C DE THIS HEPORT

BIOMATY

23 Noverbor 1.96ú

2.

MONTHE EMPLOYEE HAS BREN

UNDER MY SUPRHYISION

EY SUPERVISOR

TO THIS REPORT NAS HOT URAN SHOWN TO LIPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATE

23 Movember 19t1

OPPICIAL TITLE OF SUPENVISON

Ope Officer

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

TYPED ON PRINTEO NAME AND SIONATURE

#/ Herbert Manoll

COMMENTA OF NEVIEWINO OFFICIAL

GAT&

23 Horarbor 1964

LOPFICIAL TITLE GE REVISONO GRFICIA

COs

al sinacon li, dient:

SECRET

---

## Page 16

4-00000

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOTEE BERIAL MUMDEA

009274

SECTION A

1. sams

a OFFICIAL POSITION 1II

Operations Uffirer

В.СМЕСА ІМІ ТУРВОР

GENERAL

S. DATE OF BiNTH D. DEX

A. ORADE 1D, 80

& Jan 1912

GS-12|

8. OFF/DIV/ON OR ADSIONMEMT O, CURRENT STATION

DOP TH 3

Mexico City

10201000/64100

TEMPORARY

instrucetone - sootion C)

IMITIAL

XX ANNUAL

RCAADIONMENT DUDEVIDON

ARABBIONMENT EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL (SpaCI!Y)!

1P. DATE REPORT DUS IM O.90.

28 February 196+

18. REPORTINO PERIOO (PiLA- 10)

6 August 1963 - 31 December 1963

SECTION &

Т -955!

PERFORMANCE EYALUATION

Performance ranges from molly Inade duote to alightly loss than satialacrony.

A rating in thia coregory

regulras

positiva camodial

action. The natura of the action could range trom counseling, lo lurther training, lo placing on

probarion, lo ragnalgnment or lo saparólion. Discrito action lahon ol proposad in Sectlon C.

Prellanco moore all roguicamenle. Il la antiraly satiafactory and la characterised noleher by daliciancy non

oncellenco.

p . Ersisione

S - Strag

0 • Distending

Pailormanco lo moro thon rotialactory, Dariad ronulls eno being producod in a profletone mannor.

P.orformanco le characterizad by arcoptional proficiency.

rional in rolation to raquiramones ol the worx and in comparison to tha porformanco o

oihare dolrig almilar

- Is1 a to six of sha mons importone apacific durios portormod during sha rating parlod. Insert rating lomor which boss doscribos tha

montre in which amployen portorme EAGM specific duty.

Considor ONLY affactivanass in parlormenco of that duty.

All employaas

with supervisory rosponsibilitias MUST ba rated on thair ability lo suporviso (Indleara numtor ul amployano aurorviands

SPECTFIE QUTY NO.T

TA TINC

Translation of Russian and Spanish materials..,

SPECIPIC DUTY NO. 7

SPECIFI CUTY NO.J

ATIN

ETTK

RATINO

LETTER

зросІрій еитумо.А

SPECIRIS QUIT MO.$

SPECIFIE DUTY NO. O

PORES 3N

L2 922

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

loes0-c0 if sporttie.

Too deso soon are fine, bou che garlich tall, are a dollect enda lo color position euro ar

petercades linipatione on rolenta.

perlorsence during tho rainy pariod.

almo the tetres les tho roting son caroszonding to tha statament mirch enot securataly raliaris his lonel ol parlormanco. i

11 FX: 1581.:

89- 1S

GONNA&TE SANTIOLA LOITION

SECRET

LETTEA

Perren

RATINO

LETTUI

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SECRET

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

norall portormonco.

Seato avago apron modo loe Impruvoront of meet performanco.

on fordign languogo comporenio, il requirad los curenne position,

appilcablo.

mellon ll to provido bes

¡rom the lime al subjoct 'e arrival in Mexico and throughs) December 1963

se was utilized principally in translation work and wad held on lap ill"he positio,

of heading up the Slation'o joint telephone lay center. Circumstances beyond the

control of the Slation and Subject are responsible for the fact that the Incumbent

in charge_of.the.center will continue those duties and Subject will be given other

responsibilitiés.

Primarily, Subject will bo trained to handle analyst and case olficer

responsibilities in the Sovlot field. The level and range of the responsibilities

will dopend on the progress Subjoct makes in handling these dutles in a mannos

satisfactory to the station.

Subject le mosi consclentious and effective in every assignment given bim

to date, and the Station is oxtremely pleased to have him available as an outside

He is enthuglastic about all his work, including, certain part-time

routine and arduous dutios, and he looks forward with confidence to the proopect

of becoming a case officer. Although it in premature to state positively that

Subject will succeed as a case officer, the supervieor belleves that Subject will

undoubtedly progreas adequately.

Subject and his family have acclimated themselves excellently to the

situation, faster than most of the Station's Other stalf agents, and certainly

2.9!

2.

MONTHS ENPLOYRE HASTEEN

UNOER MY SUPERVISION

DATE

THAT L HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B. ANO C OF THIS REPORT

SUPERVICH

IF THIS REFORT HAS NOT DEEN -HOWN TO EMPLOYER, DIVE RXPLANATION

22 JanuEry 1961

•3.

COMMENTS OF NAVIERING OPPICIAL

OFFICIAL TITLE OF BUPEAVIBOR

*•+ 07ж-а4n

Orerationa, orficer

AY REViEMINE OFFICIAL

TYPER OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

1S/ Heruert Linell

DATE

29 January 196k

• 9.

¡STORTILTITIE OP ARTERINE GETICIAL

Chief of station

TYPED OA PRUTTO NAME SNO DIGRATUHE

SECRET

---

## Page 18

14-00000

Aten Regarte

Rue 194 ther at

---

