# 104-10186-10261

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10261

12022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

A USC. DONA MAS ANd IDA IDO GANASTANA DE TATPIAlIOR Ol MAIA lA NAT IRADRE lO NO UNAUIDORAd pATATO la prOblarLoS oy las

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT

Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez

REPORT NO. CSC1/00713-64

DATE DISTR, 8 September 1864

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES CSCI-3/782, GS0 RETURNTO CIA

29 June 1964

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OP

INFO

1964

PLACE &

Washington, D.C.

DATE ACQ. AUgUSt 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS LNEVALUATED INTORMATION, SOURCE ORADINOS ARR DIMINITIVE APPRAISAI OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service

until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments. The following report is one of a series cortaining

personality information provided by the source and includes supplementa)

information from the records of this Agency.

l ls requested that the addressees taxe no action on any of the individual

nentioned in the personality reparts without first checking with thi

Agency.

Source was re-queried concerning additional Information on

Manuel VEGA Perez, the Subject of the above referenced report, ard

gave the following information:

His full name is Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez, pseudonym

"Marcos, " ard he was born about 1919. He is five feet five

inches in height, has a heavy bulld, a white complexion, curly

hair, and a round, clean shaven face.

VEGA is a Diplomatic Altache at the Cuban Embassy in

Mexico City and the chief of intelligence there. He arrived in

Cuba from Mexico in November 1S6s and was assigned te the

STATE

I DIA

REP CINCLANT

,Niro liald distritertion indicored by

¡ ARMY

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

INSA

-UNASO 1

I ald

I&NS

TOCe

IFBI 2

INFORMALI

N'H SA FOBA

EPORI

VELi R.

ЗРЕ.

RID-AN

NAVE

TOTALS

VH SA 7 (1), dE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

INFORMATION REPORT

LX-1653

NO PRODCT ALANG-!;

CSC1-316 09713-04

COOMO INAT ING 01

014180n.

CKS

201-327252 and 75-5-1

JIBR

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SECRET

NO. ORN DIStEM

#CSC1-5.6 00713-84

-2-

Departamento de Liberacion Nacional (The National Liberation Department - LN)

of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence -

DGI) as the Nicaraguan desk officer. On 16 April 1964 he returned to

Mexico City.

NO

SECRET

FOREIGN DISSEM

---

