# 104-10142-10129

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10142-10129

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CIA INTERNAL USE ILY

• Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Tuesday • 7 December 1976

J

HS C

77-0012/1

Page 2

Chrono

6. (Unclassified - NDL) LIAISON In response to a letter

from Representative Robert W. Edgar (D., Pa.) concerning an

article in The Sunday Bulletin entitled "CIA Disputes Broomall

Wiretap Story, " which contained erroneous information concerning

the Congressman, I called Kathy Keel, the Congressman's personal

secretary, and told her that a letter had been forwarded by our

General Counsel to the Department of Justice on 3 December 1976

seeking their assistance in investigating this matter. She thanked

me for my call and said no written response would be necessary.

7. (Internal Use Only - BAA) LIAISON Received a call from

Kathy, DDO/British Desk, who said they were in receipt of a message

from London Station pertaining to the message that came in this morning

for Richard Moose, Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff, from

Senator Dick Clark (D., Iowa) requesting confirmation of the receipt of

the messagc and the time. After talking to Moose, I called Kathy and told

her that Moose received the message at 2:00 p.m. and that there would

be no response back to the Senator. She will take care of sending out

the appropriale response.

8. (Unclassified - NDL) LIAISON Received

a call from

Richard Dingman, Representative John B. Conlan's (R., Ariz. )

Administrative Assistant, who wanted to know the procedures

the Congressman should follow in requesting information on himself

under FOLA. I told him to write to George Cary and gave hirn. the

address and said we would process it from there.

9. (Internal Use Only - GLC) LIAISON Richard Sprague, Chief

10:30 a.mn. We compared schedules and decided to meet at 10:30 a.m.

tomorrow. Sprague asked if I would have the letter on destruction of

documents. I told him that I planned to bring along the final draft for him

to look at. We then discussed setting up a mecting with the Director,

Chairman Thomas Downing (D., Va. ) and Representative Henry Gonzalez

(D., Texas). He suggested that the meeting include the Ranking Minority

Member, Samuel L. Devine (R., Ohio); who he said is a great admirer

of Mr. Bush. I told him I would check the Director's calendar and get

back in touch with him.

20150

CHA MATERNAL USE ONLY

---

