# 104-10161-10284

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10161-10284

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

•VIEKNAL

SE ONLY

COI DENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

SECRET

C/ WH/SA/CI

GH-43

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

r. WH/Sifurity

Diresturef Becartty

2.

3.

4.

C/AA5/05

DATE

EXTENSION

6471

OfFICER'S

INTIALS

NO.

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

23 Jure 1964

COMMENTS (Number ooch commani to shom from uhom

Drom a lina across column after soch commaeni.)

ATTENTION: Alien Affairs

Staff

Amended Memo

per telecon

32 guisebt.

Vivian Petrat

holly the; car

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

610 use minous

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

11120

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

''in"."

.

.=

WH/SA 64-532

23 June 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR : Director of Security

ATTENTION

: Alien Affairs Staff

SUBJECT

: AMMUG-1

1. There is no question in my mind that AMMUG-1 is

a bona fide defector or that he has furnished us with

accurate and valuable information concerning Cuban intel-

ligence operations, staffers, and agents.

2. The information furnished by AMMUG-1 has been

established as accurate through our examination of FID

material, results of travel controls and reports from

independent sources. His information has given us the

potential and opportunity to take effective measures to

safeguard United States Government interests.

3. AMMUG-1 has stated that he never was and is not

now a member of the Communist Party. His polygraph

results indicate that he has been truthful in discussing his

personal history and in providing information.

4. I should like to have, as soon as possible, an Immigra.

tion and Naturalization identity document form I-94 plus an I-512

form which will permit him to travel to other areas and to

return to the United States. It is possible that it will be neces-

sary for him to travel on short notice in effecting recruitment or

defections of key Cuban intelligence staffers and agents. I

An expeditious travel size sure in in operatis delay

opportunities of great value to the United States Government.

Swenson

Chief, WH/SA/CI

SECRET

---

