ae Sins sega?

ea SE:
2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992! TO CIA =
— = jo Not Reproduce

DISPATCH. | Siuatl

Chief oF station, [Hele

]04-10172-10287|

“1. Neadquart ota
Conti lle/~ 2's /aF Hake Contacta, and ve shall attemt to outline belaw

fas
the gist of ‘that e senpus of optuion derived therefrom,

OL 2s Putting firat.things first, it ix belleved that [rhaver/© freferved
to as{A/<“horeafter) has displayed naivate to too erat a derres, both pox
Lttheally and. esotionally;-to-be-rersitted.to becone aqe farther fnvotved ta
this Maison... This, tocether with her expreascd avereion to covert axtivity,
could make for creblems.in runnin- her as a penetration double arent, Our

Feanoning is‘as' follows.

iv)

’

Js Tho very fact rk ‘a s0013 (erent) and: 0011, a kmoun RIShiky
are in contact with each » hes inplicationa which varrant close scrutiny.
While 1¢ may. be a bit top early ‘to penser the direction (i'N's interest could
tase, (1s LL'N staing “el A/S for recruiteant, or ig he falling for her, gene
Anely?) the following co: are offered {n the knowledge that they are, by *
and urge, eelf-evicent, COLNS has taken the intiative in mdntaining contact

Otten AS, which fellows the not uncamen moms operandi of a rift, dinners,

jp an-emeal to the intellect, Inncesge Lo~sons, and « little Maison

movie
initiated the Sjilted huabanc* routine. /11 of these contat 08
revolved around|A/5'a[apartrent "which brings mp the question-of the]? imish
Tecate) It-would de to Un if alnative Finn, sharing an apartrent with
a t woulan't be suspicious of a Soviet coairg to the anartrent for

Language jp phoning regularly, taking the Anarican out to cirner, theater,
eto. Perhaps Costille has alreacy satisfied himself on this point, but: Hoade |.
“quarters vould apareciate being sesured of the(roormatele status and reliability. |
pina
provocative: resurks to both A/S and Costille, ineloting
pone pertaining to the Ascfoati lige: alationshiciy 8 trip to the MMi, the
bie that @ L's contact web “the attention ef tbe 1.5,
sith reweltent inquiries tne! eat by v Cootilles and to the poasiotlity
OLehat{ Mfc wan teprrting on har contact vith OTH to theese Fohansy,
the thought’ has occurred to. the| station |that O°U'S nay voli have are 14-1
Contille tatbed as an ATT officer oneclalliing 15°" "CHetyne operations. As
you. will recall, in a-coaple of inatances VI hinted. taf ifs that he suspected ()?.
that eaxeone alee was paying for her t rin to the Irit je asked her to who
did: — have -to:eccount for her expemiture-, cane of the thince PID might
to rain fron thecs: contacts, assuring that. he 1s: suspicious of both Cestille
Oe are: ‘an-indioation ef the tyne af seople “1/%"F¥ sence on RFISCM
what ‘their ‘backsrounda are and perhaps how they are spotted (e.r.)
whether they ars.atudents of Soviet affairs, or of the ‘usstan languare,
what the backgrounis are of tim AIS officers rondo the operations, ani related
matters. It might bo doubted that 9 °' hiaself 1o a ecectalist in C" operations
acainst the Als, eines he, ac i Resident would have broader reszonaibilities,
However, be might well be interented tn “kreping nie banc in® and of maintaining
none pereona) conteste with Americans in orcer tocet his om firoteband im

he OOLU3 has nade

oR


CONTRUATION OF aelainy

OMPATCH i i: 20 cone 243

4 oe ra Rrestearag

Lent be Interesting to see emetver after awilit he turns over
gRucb as “Letor Yatravertch © “it, to view
antert, it la tatereatinn te constver the
an streckwent to CUNT, In this renort, C. tilley
i om “geen to de maintatain: the mjortty of
Galteots vith serieatss fone tine eer vw at ieacuarters woweret Lf CULOTUT
ste ayetlalice fe sNerfoun custae(s, aitee he war the one who tock
contact, iat ment consiveradie tine tn the Unites |

Freacivns,
the Cort! tis ecatart to sorerce eli

he hag Intretent | att
Yabarsy revart rece tre:

Ge Tk de dS oult ty say 4. be feliowt- {9 relevant or not, but we
were intererte. tora. a recent(crentaje:\vis-aten coneercing @ la-encon tne
wolviar a0“) Ser and tuo knovat 5 af ficers, 4¢ this Lincheoe the suspect (KB
Resideot in lermark allese:! that one art of every taree Asarican visitors to the
@t isa nye
vimultanccaaly ecoresning the sao thowts to ax! about Ancricans, -¢ realize
at one sdoalznts. try to maxe too muc® oct of these cot-eicences, but it ie worth
moting that in ‘ersark the \): 2esi¢est has subsequently, turned over the contact
with the 415 officer to an wrterling at the exce tine that ‘Th is Latroweing
Costille to > GAL who rays in terny carry_on Fea aces We plan to point ont
Aada eetarideace to the Conocha ea stattoa} (= C 02

6. To get back to the case in point: The pstters off 1's contacts with ;
COLTER purceats that the Lotter tes epotied esd is is the se of acrersing, and

attoreip In which seotional control cavid he exercise’, it ta catte une

Uikely tat this shrew! inte! lisence oorater "likes her fer ter ains*, It vould

also oven that the Soviete have a contiaaing interest tn Coetille ant assening

wat they are safife least come of the Costilie=t/! contacts, they nay have
aft

oO pot infornition on fostitle and other Averican tarcetas
SOL eortataty as te be tryina to nef af* on the chook’, be it for hereslf
er tog et information oa the AIS, or bothers Ned

Te. Castille saya he has never bern seca Oh ‘and that all contact with
der bas been tel: in bie aparteent or car. it a-vpears quite rcasible
that their meetings hav. been observed, if the 2is bad an inclination to do ey
ami {0 may wall ba that O°1'7 de awaro of the contact. It 1s requested that
Costille adrise for recard farpones, as tothe meas of contact
exloyed by bin anf Fi telaone, eeeting plans for a certain cay afesch week
er alternate cays, Lae, doce phe cure wnaccemanted to bis gurt-ent aor
does he weet her ot a dosignated place, wat te the usual hour (daylishtor dark),
eration ef visits if acedi+: i9 in his car, woare co thay meat, co theya@rive

if thay were #0 incline. >
be

8, If oar execicion te correct that CL a had Af and Costille tated, froia
atamveint it world be spprepriate to . Uisccarace aiy further contact vetveen

rational intellicunre, end we sce potting to be ratved from the contact.
wight have encuch of a sense of migzion to allow herecl? Laon Bete ht
conversetion froa whleb Li Ud darive so-e touefit than she or vo.
wante to defect, ne von't IS'@ helo, an‘ he's orobably teo sharp, ant che
toc entutared, for ue to be mer ia a continuation of this roalationship,
SV Gls paiat, it is su-cested that Costilie himself be esrefal in his relations’.
wih OCLCs aod report isdtell cn all euch eontartss

Fe The FIT angle concern oy witl be covered in a eevarate HNoratche
xe

POULTP Tg SAN TES

‘were ve have the guspact 45) tesi-onts ia two Scan. lnevian-countr es

qaltivatiag 760710 aay be that OLE ty trving to involed A{5 in e rosantic rem OC

around, where d.23 be drop her off? All of this cou'd be eurveliled by the Soviets

and Oi, “e night jest continane to fish sround for occasional iteas ‘tals fava

7/88
