# 104-10118-10428

## Page 1

104-10118-10428

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OLC

SECRET

(When Filled In)

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER

057303

SECTION A

1. NAME

(Last)

(Firat)

GOODPASTURE, Ann L.

6, OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Operations Officer

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

XX

CAREER

RESERVE

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (Seo Instru

SPECIAL (Specily):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

28 February 1964

SECTION B

W - Weok

(Midulo)

GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH

3. SEX

A. GRADE

15. SD

28 Nov 1918

F

GS-13

D

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT &. CURRENT STATION

Mexico City

REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR

REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

A - Adaquate

P - Proficient

S - Strong

0 - Outstanding

xx

ANNUAL

ST SPECIAL (Specily)

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

12. REPOBJING PERIOD (From- 10

Mr January - 31 December 1963

Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly lass than satisfactory. A rating in this calegory requiros

positive :smedial action. The noture of the action could range from counseling, to further truining, to placing or

probation, so reassignmont or to seporation.

Describe action taken or proposed in Saction C.

Periormonce meats all requirements. It is entiraly satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficioncy nor

excellancs.

Porformanca is more than sotisfactory. Desired results ore being produced in a proficient manner.

Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiancy.

Performanca is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of

others doing similar work os to worrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

manner in which employee performs EACH specifie duty.

Consider ONLY effectivaness in performance of that duty.

with supervisory responsibilities MUST be roted on their ability to supervise (Indicate number of omployees supervised).

LEMPTY Project - Working with Jeremy L. NARCOS (regular

contact and case ofiicer) supervisas work of three photo!

bases operating against

Soviet Embassy; processes take; ispatifies

"Soviets and intglligence function.

Alternate contact with staif agem

cases.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

processor.

Liaison with Legal Attache, Army, Navy and Air on routine CE

Assists COS and DCOS on non-specialized cases as they occur.

Contact for Orville HORSFALL (staff agent), translator,

Contact for Arnold E. AREHART, LIENVOY.

Contact for Jeremy K. BENADUM, LITEMPO.

RATING

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

RATING

LETTER

Alternate photographer, flaps and

seals technician.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. S

RATING

LETTE=

Case vificer on some CE

cases.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. &

papers, charts, and photographic presentations for COS briefing of visiting

firemen.

OVERALL PERFORHANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

oks into secount everything about the employaa which influences his effectiveness in his cureeni

smonca di specifie duties, inductivity, conduct on jih, cuparativeness, pertinent personsi irairs or habits, on

purriculor limitations or calares.

jased on your knowledçs si imployee's overall periormance

siring the roting poriod,

place the larter in the raring boe orrosponding to the statement uhich most securately reflects his levai of cartormance.

O MAR 1994

493M 45

DASOLETE PREViOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

Parin

LETTE?

0004017

PACE

COPY

NO.

08 5

---

## Page 2

SECRET

(ahra Filled In)

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significont strengths or wecknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship e

overall performance.

State suggestions made for improvenient of work performance.

on foreign language competence, if required for current position.

Give, recommendctions for training

Commert

Amplify or explaigRatings qwer incon-tiop; B to provide tes

asis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance i monagerial or supertsole ies Best be described,.

applicable.

PROTE TEL

liged two or three "replacements!"

SECTION D

ATHO

CERTIFI

ADD COMMENTS

I CERTIFY TH

FAME SFEN-SECTIONS AMBIANDC OF THIS REPOET

SIGNATU

F'EMPLOYEE:""

/S/ Ann I Goodpasture

BY.SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMFLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATE

I4 January 1964

MONTHS

EMPLOYEE

HAS BEEN

UNDER MY SUPERVISION

DATE

I JanUary 1964

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Chief of Station

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

TYPED OR PRINTES NAME AND SIGNATURE

/S/ Winston a. Scott

Although this employee is

a fine intelligence officer aná has worked

very hard for the Chief of Station, Mexico City, I consider the rating

of Outstanding in all specific duties end for over-all performsace to be

excessively high. Reporting on the activities she supervises hes been

s good as that from other Mexico Citripperations but 1s still tot u

o DDI stendards. While most of the projects she is concerned with ar

andled with proper cost conserpusness, at least one of them, the LITEME

Project, Is not. The agents

re paid too much and their activities a

not adequately reported.

This has been called to the station's attention.

DATE

4 March 1964

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

C/VH/ 3

5O OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

.26

SECRET

0004018

PACE

08 5

NO.

---

## Page 3

SECRET

(When Filled In)

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION

OFF

SECTION D

Award for Heroic Action or Acceptance of Hazard: Was act voluntary? Describe why act was outslanding, and if it was more than normally expocled

Explain, why, and how.

Il on aeriai or marine operation, describo type and position of craft, crem position of individual, and all unusual circumstances.

Indicate results of the act. Enclose unclassified citation.

Award for Achiavement, Service, or Periormance: Stato character of service during poriod for which recommended. (Give complete description of admin-

istrative, lechnical, or professional duties ond responsibilities it nol covered in Section C; include dates of assignment and relief.) What did the individual

Why was this outstanding when compared to others of like grode and experience in similar positions or circumstances? li

appropriale, include production records and assistance rendered by other persons or units.

What obsiocles were encountered or overcome? Indicate re-

sults of achierement, service, or performanco.

Include reference to Fitness Reporis, letters of Commendation, or other documentation already on file which

supports this recommendation.

Miss Goodpasture has been on sick leave since July 1972 awaiting

medical retirement in October 1973.

She is a charter member of the Agency,

having entered on duty from OSS and its successor organizations.

standing performance,

In addition to

Mexico City.

Undoubtedly,

her service

"trouble-shooting" case officer for the incomparable Winfield Scott

(deceased), who was then the Chief of Station. Mr. Scott, a stern task-

master, described Miss Goodpasture over these years as

"intelligent, hard-

working, conscientious,

versatile, valuable and unquestionably one of the

most competent C1/CE officers he ever had the privilege of working with.

Miss Goodpasture's fitness

reports were totally consistent with

appraisal, and were characterized by outstanding ratings.

assignment prior to acute medical problems, she worked for the cl Staff

(October 1970-October

1971),

earning the following remarks from her

supervisor:

...I venture

to rate her overall performance,

thirty years

of it, as Outstanding.

Ann is one of the tough warp-threads on which

this organization is

and when she retires the fabric of this organi

be weakened.

woven,the reviewing official agreed with the above

and recorded his hope that Miss Goodpasture get the official Agency recogni

tion she so rich deserves togethe many years see see sate

46.

ENCLOSURES (List individually)

IF ORIGINATOR IS NOT

STALTREES OR DOES NOT HANONEFOGENOE FROLESCE OF THE ACT

ATTACH AFFIDAVITS OF EYENITNESS OF

QUALS HAVING PERSONAL XNOWLEDGE OF

87.

RECOMMENDATION INITIATED ST

David A Failips

48.

TITLE AND SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE MAKING RECOM.

MENDATION

SECTION E

50.

Chief, WH Division

RECONMEXDATION FORWARDED THROUGH OFFICIALS CONCERNED FOR THEIR INFORMATION

TITLE AND SIGNATURE

D

HEAD OF

_CAREER SERVICE

(Career service of noninee)

58.

See Item #52

TITLE

:1D

SIGNATURE

DATE

DEPUTY DIRECTOR

OF

CAREER

SERVICE

32.

DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PITATING COMPONENT

SeajItem. #52

TITLE

ANS, SIGNATURE

Have At Ble

Deputy Director for Oberations

SECRET

CATa

49- DATE

21 JUR 1973

M: 1973

2/79

0004019

PAGE

COPY NO.

. of 5

---

## Page 4

SECTION D

to duty which over a

consistently long hours,

responsible for the identification of Lee Harvey Oswald

in his

dealings with the Cuban Embassy in Mexico.

also responsible for other important

and successful opera-

tions against Soviet penetration efforts directed toward

the United States from Mexico.

She would rather work than

rest, and when she works, she always impresses ner super-

iors

with her mastery over her craft.

for thirty years

Miss Goodpasture has given unstintingly of herself to

the cause and mission of

this Agency;

the Agency owes her

formal acknowledgement of appreciation.

REPRODUCTION

1..

0004020

.of.

_5

PAGE

rapy

NO.

---

## Page 5

SECRET

(When Filled In)

Off

RECOMMENDATION FOR HONOR OR MERIT AWARD

(Submit in triplicate - see HR 20-37)

SECTION A

PERSONAL DATA

EMP

SER.

NAME OF

PERSON RECOMMENDED (Lost, First Middle)

057303

Goodpasture, Ann Lorene

POSITION

Ops

Officer

GS - 13

50

D

6.

OFFICE

OF ASSIGNMENT

P. OFFICE EXT. (IT has) 8.

DDO/CI

Staff

FIELD (Specify location)

9.

HOME ADDRESS (NO. St., City, State, ZIP Codol

•HONE

TI. CITIZENSHIP AND HOW ACOUIRED

4200 Cathedral Ave., Waste

-1657

2.

RECOMMENDED AWARD

Career Intelligence Medal

o October 1973

U.s.

Birth

RETIREMENT

POSTHUMOUS

15. NAME OF NEXT OF KIN

C. H. Goodpasture

SECTION B

PECOMMENDATION FOR AVARD FOR HEROIC ACTION OR ACCEPTANCE OF HAZAPD

19. WERE YOU AN EYEWITNESS TO THE ACT

RELAT DUST

Fathe

YES

YES

HOME ADDRESS (No., St. City, State, TIP Core)

HOME PHONE

Livingston,

Tenn

PERSONNEL IN IMMEDIATE VICINITY OR WHO ASSISTED IN ACT OR SHARED IN SAME HAZARD:

20. FULL NAME

21. ORGN. TITLE

22. GRADE

23. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT

LIST ANY OF THE ABOVE PERSONS GIVEN AN AÑARD OR RECOMMENDEO FOR AMARO FOR PARTICIPATING IN ACT:

24. FULL NAME

25. AWARO RECOMMENDED

CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH ACT WAS PERFOPIED:

2G: LOCATION

29. PREVAILING GEOGRAPHIC CONDITIONS AND OBSTACLES ENCOUNTERED

30. DATES FOR WHICH AWARO RECIUMENDED

27. INCLUSIVE DATES

31.

LEPRODUCTON

OF DAY

YES

SECTION C

RECOMMEXDATION FOR AWARD FOR ACHEVEMENT, SERVICE, OR PERFORMANCE

33. DO YOU HAVE PERSONAL KVINLEOGE OF THE

SERVICE OR PEPFORMANCE

YES

34. OFFICIAL ASSIGNMENT OF PERSON RECOMMENDED AT TIME OF SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE

Headquarters

35. COMPONENT OR STATION (Desianstion and location)

DDO/ WH

36. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBE: IF 3 OF iSSIGNED POSITION

Operations officer completing 30 years of service in the Agency and

its predecessor organizations.

37. INCLUSIVE DATES FOP MICH MECHNMENDED

7947

- 1973

PERSONNEL

WHO ASSISTED OR CONTRIRUTED

Foli

NAME

Mr. Winfield Scott

ASSIGNMENE COMPLETED

139.

5.045

OR RELATED ASSIGNUEY

YES

X

SUSSTANTIALLY

Gri.

SEPVICE

TITLE

OR

PERFORMANCE

42.

GRADE

GS÷18

' 13.

OFFICE

OF

ASSIGNME'"

Mexico

City

ALIS: ANY OF THE ABOVE PERS

#A. FULL NAME

CIVEN AN AMARO

DA RECOINENDED FOR AVARD FOO PANZICIPATING IN THE PERFORMS

TYPE OF AWARD

Mr. Winfield Scott

FORM

600 USE

REY.

J.83

SECRET

(1)

17761

PAGE

C004021

of.

---

