Aft ew TAs LOL
SECRET

PERSONAL INFORMATION OATA  20,-1sp166e

Toe

33 spare) ~| SPUR, Arheeety Tas ——45-———

waren 2 1 eorin coua Ey 2210)
satiate Ds1 alos — bd’ So, &  Chhet Consular Section:
Lvnren a Ae He “Finland.

Theout u3. ivi econead (1, Aire
Tel 76 42 06 ! vi bes 55 Karn

werent

$'6*_(oa.)

Dipl.
wan 39°

foare of wiate 13 Aug 23 t :
$a0.1925 or 26.1 or me mdi

Vito = In Finland; very attractive. Ponsibly Nina, b. 1927 (eee ‘Teer
Nina Fedorovna, born 24 Nov 1927 ((0:114)2356)

‘CoCuMENT ATION

me
i FEAL 2au8 |TmeuseeSubj"e Pinndeh noUreably weaker than Is Ys SHORYEV'es
Dl (live! Knows Finnish rather well.
a Panera i | “Subt aneaks nomial (Sen ref [6FfA)3600 unter Man.)
"30 Doe 56 [ratvieus cunete awe doceste
OL[tonwater] | fource said subj stated he had attended secondary school and the
Language Inatitute,*
2419 | 2. ‘Subj claims to have been a Colonel in Sov Army during the var ani'shw
12 Apr 57] action in Leninsrad and Noscov—-wis wounded six tines, lols is his
first foreign assignsent, Sepaka only Russian and Finnish.
OL, _ [Peters ceaniea cae oF waaay pen tare, oieaay
Og
Tobvater || thenfTonwat| showed subj photo of his children, subj became quite
MionAl end-Hlmost wept: Remarked that he ond hie wife have wanted -
have children for patt 6 yre., bub-have had no suco
Sy
ie) “ PSsR, appeared quite stern, Source thought eubj was heard Coomte,
though he edmired tha material accomplishments of US. Feels subj

@ very mach a Sov Commie and is not defectable. Very pleasant and

2,
Gk 3800 ROvtah tt th ood eonsa of humors enjoys playing the part of the host.

13 Mar 59 rom no. ugg SECRET “0

anes

OFHul ‘nd

of flshent ve
vA

.


a SECRET .

26 July 7 IPFER-20 said Subj's face was faniliar to his; vhen given the
aid there was a lt, Col. GCLUS in the MGB (pow XGR).

ar
Souree did not knov which directorate he vas in = might be technical
section - but knew that he was a "fairly high boss." ‘Source could
not recall vhether he hai ever seen Subj 20 doos not knov if this is

Dh. q
J called on fis Phe and asked that(¥/Alvarn hin

9 Oct 57] sof any Sov official vere about fo be mg'd from Finland & he
VAQC INE] Lys porconaily ace to it that the san left quictly.& immediately.
VWilrepiied in stern & angry nacner, "Since when does a little diplomgt

‘oa rank of 2d Sea presume that he is so reverfwl as to renove offiofals
of his com country from Firl? If you are really that powerful, who are

anyway 4 vhat are your optics here in Firl? "Subjfitsturbed—dta no’
pursue the questicn. (Sti ent: Sdbj's question interesting in view
BORRNITG oper. Trying to determine. date of chat.)

Teg Cor APITPRII iden,
: Z

fe

COnTACTS.

2. Source invited to give lectures on sath in USSR. Soon after re=

ceiving the invitation, he and wife were in bar of Helsinki reatacrant
when sub) and fnu RASKE, a Finn Como, came up to bis table and int
duced themselves. Subj mentioned source's imninet trip to USSR.
told source to cone to Sov Bab naxt day to meot the Cultural Attache,
who vould arrange to get source to USSR and back without cost.
invited subj and RISKE to his home for dinner following sundey. Both
accepted. SUB paid entire bill, :

When source went Sov Bab soxt day met Yuriy YORONIE end eubj, aloo
SERORTEY. V. invited himeelf to dinner vith subj at source's boge.
Subj, VORONIE and wives went to source's for dinner, bearing many
presents, | RASKB did not come, Subj told source “thie BASKH fo a
evine.® Felt that it necessary to use these Fina Comsies politically
Dut that they cannot be trusted.

iE Rips

believed tyan Ta. sag fe wubj'a chief.
1.292, (OF HL 52, (OF) 1813, which we-date the debriefing
. Lohwater] (Debriefing changes some of the points) _

3. Cne Kina GOLUB, b. 1627, arr Einiand via 7ainikkala 5 Hov 56 "to |
reside permanently". Pessibly Subj's wife?? :

O\ CeAINaLoRTss|
FA) 2148 | bs acne l invited to a farewell lunch for Ivan Yefimovich SSPOSYEY

m BES who used title of Consul in Naland at times).17 Dec 56.

Also present was (fu) GOLUB, who was intradaced as. the new Consul.
(igs note: assume this is Subj). Sudj has been in Finland circa 1

22Corl azo |s. Sky ‘presented calling cards to CD officers. Now officially instal
25 Jan 5? | as Is Ys SENGEYEV's replacenent. :
Subj & Wife on Sov Bid list of Isr 57,

SECRET



i.
?

: ob
pr eaheas Subj hed contact w/ProfMavid Hectit] (Albright), a Russian speaking research

GOLYB, Srigoriy Ye,
Fase 2

« Contacts:

Apr 57 . schaiar wnose interest {3 19th century Russia, CHecht)O* through Hilliker
(chief, Pol, Sec.), met Jane Xichline vho obtained a report for lgrse
DULieedt| reparted that GCLUB was very dow on the Aner Shb and Americ:
wanted to now about American lifetn-tyS., ete.

eee ewes ae g Gacy long Teport—five'pazes.. For elaboration, see att g, F
arstch. retained in Mpland files, O] :
Pew te ‘nid-Degender, Hecate Waal tm folloving whten{v/L } |
‘Jan 58 passed to'lStation) GOLUB recently complained to Johannes VIROLAINEN
thai

t the Finn security police'vere not paying any attn'to cases of British |
& feerican espionage in Finl, adding that the Soviets bad info regarding i
i

yes Western espionage in Finl and vould be glad to furnish it to the security

Police. GOLUB said some of the western cases were old & some nev. Did not.
elaborate, Source did not say what VIROLAINEN's rerly was to GOLUB,
‘ oO Ww then said it would behoove AIS officers in Hels to be as careful as

Possible cause it quite possible security police vould receive oniers to keep
: | their eyes sharply peeled for oper involving Finnieh citizens.  Ferdleton :
ae briefed all senior ODEARL people, GDUKIT man. said he had reed a varning j
> few days earlier from a friendly Finnish officer that another ODUNIT officer *
ie had been seen tco frequently afftty driving a Volksvagen w/dipl plates around i
froight yards of Hel. (Thia was @INIT's energetic factory & freight car i
marking program.) The ODOATH man said his fanily bad noticed Finnish policeman
+ on tha beat outside his house bad recently begun to go to phone booth & make
a call every time the senior CDCATH man left his house and drove tovards town. .

Everyone took warning serfously. [i to tell us: any further developments.
; ol : ytorz- on (over)

a

MisceitaNEous “>
pe 77 Subj"dptd Hels for Moscow by rail 22 Sep 57.
ost 57 :

- ues BE
Z g)2872 Subj left Finl w/famtly in early Sep ant ha not yet returned, ae
9 Cct_57 : :
VACCIN
Can Subj arr Fink from Moscow 6 Nov 57, No mention of fanily. s
iF Now 57 ann i i
Pur Subs's wife arr Finl from Moscow 5 Jan 1958, : f
fl Jan 58
JETS} 890 Subj to vacation ‘TR on 25 Sune. (sic) ‘
BOER e90 Stet
25 Jun 58 2 i

Subj & wife on Dip List of July 1958,

Dipl List Subj & wife ‘on dipl list. iu

Jan 59 ‘eat
Subj & wife on June.1959 Dipl, List.

pater ues Sub and wife on 16 Nov $9 list

ONAL


told Stticn that Subj bed ,
visited Sieertor y oes ity police ~~
having westernors, (¥ Aes told that

At had re connecticn with him paces &@ freo country &
people bed right to talk with any one they pleased,

Min of int asked hiz exactly what he va s driving at—
Subj vas evasive & gave « vague non-sequitur ansver vhich
gave no hint as to what proof the Soviets vere talking
about, Min of Int told GOLUB if Sov govt had any offictal
complaints to make he showld make then thru proper channels

When asked if he thought there vere any deeper significance

to these Sov gaxbits,/VARIATION/ll replied that he did not :
expect the Soviets to do/anything more than drop theeo

onversational hintag 0 | - c :

iota cen az i ol aa i
-- aren has af SE, 58 sung called[VACCIVE/D\e invited him to lunch.’
: ing the.lunch Subj, for’ soze reason,, wanted to impress |

ais

wero dloniypunst he es to keep informed of certainthings '
even Paes sn't help him. For examples t

Hei-knows that Oskari VAINOXEN and Antti, SAx\RA are in Haaparanta, He has photos of MEKARA'S

documents & knows that an derican inteorregatesthese men in Haaparanta,

An American Captain (G. did not rexember raze) said, while he vas drunk, that tne Gacenes | 0 (

detective WISTERBIG 16 his friend and has the Job af Keeping track of Soviets tn Haley
He knew that there vas a mtg of Scandinavian Security cutee 8 in Nov & that
ta this was 80.) (an \

lisse THULIN (Sweden) ' JENSEN (Denmark) & the Ser chief Tecnica. (ue

H Tao American allitary has 15 persons vorking for then in Hels ue ough only 7
i ar in the Corps Diplonstique.

i Col. Bjork, the Amer Mil Att, 4 se man vio calls the shots for Aver esptonage in Pinlant,.
fe 2, At one point in the talk(V/L{Sdid ke tock G, to task for having interests not co-sistent

7 w/a diplomst's job. G. proteSted that his interests were purely dinlomatic and that be
i hap no other than normal consular duties, :

a

ol

just (date not given) cat
hy but since[ VAL fins
to rostpone the mtg w/S™
was leaving Sor vacntich
GAT As to aeot
y at 1500 brs, vo 8

e executions in Yunsary
he question is a little
Although we asked’

2 not knew but, wey

ie

«i
deligate for Ha tof: Ry Bh
SubJ would be gore, Ce Fb 4

Sard out Q)h
¥/3udj (( 7
replied ars Subj, dat almost I
; amas inarpropriate, just“
a Cy

C

Contacts continued



CONTACTS. 5 GOLIB, trhpordya *.

Grdsus
& aur 58 ct, Soviet Consul wore!
aan salar Corps, which had crev: nai ny SinosSert biee rerresentative, .
eee {a the fall of 197, Stace the conssiar Corps is rot scecificaliy a
western® boy, We corps Nac nv valig reason to refuse Rin eatry. 3s
far as is known, no other Sinowoviet sloc representatives have folicved -
a> 28 into the Corps. if
Corn 3694s tille, KUBARK, attended a Consular “orps lun-heon on 10 Des $8—Zering
30 58 lun-heon %, was introdured as new Viee-“onsul from U.S,—after limb GOLIB -ane
i direstly up to ostizle, introfured Kinself and asked “, to join bin at his ~
i table for ~offee and eognar. Sudj was extrenely friendly and pro~eated to ask
the usual. FRQ1 type questions, such as Costille's hose in States, Sow long he'd
been in Finl, did he have a dipl title, et-, Subj mentioned that his vife vas
in the Sov Union and that he vas living aJone in his apt, Subj speaks no Snglish,
so Minnish vas used, : 7
(Hye ronments A: photo cane in w/this dispateh—vostille,. GOLUS ani 6 others,
Qo —_Fhoto sent to SR/2/"E for filing.)
3800 “~“On 18 Feb “oatille was invited to lun-h by GOLUB; lum-h lasted for 3 brs.
13 Mar 59° (For dotatle see GOLUH's 201 folder in vhich this ref is filed.} or see cory

in Minland'a chronoa.) : r
(@insa9 Result ef Cost{lle's (KUBARK) USSR Trip, See chrone in Finland.

20 Mar 59
2. COFHA) 3859 ~~ Costille's Contact w/GOLIB en 13 4pr 59, See chrone in ‘inland.

gsined tne Selsinsd

STALTEY, §et

17 Apr 59 ot : : :
9 Tpat 220 [azPasiex 5] retd to Hels 16 May. She on sane train Leningred to Rela v/GOLIB
9930 "iho sald he accompanied Sov writer to Leningrad, ‘& Subj discussed

23 May 59 ourrent events ant-Subj's vieva Sov interest Fini! atated Subj friendly, <
balpful during baggage check ant did not appear sussfetous her trip, Subj
has phoned [AE/5]tt#ice for lunch since return. She not able go but intenis
accept next offer, =
Friee[HALTWE/A] eal Subj vont Loningrad to Yoot Sov Internal Security Felice
Rep re security measures KERUSICHEV Scandinavia trips ;

[orni]3900 “Gn 4 May Subj phoned Costille (KURARK) for lunch that day. Most of the time ves
J 12 59  apent on polite conversation ani no palitical topics were discussed, Subj asked
C, about hie home and family in the States and his vacation plans, Subj mentions
that be vas not going to be able to take a vacation this ewmer as be had hoped,
When C. asked him why, he gave the reason that the Aud, vhoa Subj dexcribed as
still being nev and not quite sure of himself yet, had told hin he wanted him
to remain in Hels-as he vas the only person of officer rank in the “onsular
Section, (Comments. Maybe. t's cause KHRUSHCHEV ie coming to Hela this omer.)
Not ‘once during the lunch did the subject mentioned in refe (C's trip to USSR
and treatment accorded him).come up. (For any further comments see Fin) chronos)
3897 Recently Subj has been making efforts to invite younger members of the
@ May 1959 Western embassies to lunch or to view Soviet movies playing at local morie
houses. Subj ted Howard B, Singletoa(Canadian), Aydin Yegen (Turk)
» another Soviet = Makayey - at these two luncheons acting as interpreter,
Costille.was just interrupted by a phone cell froa Subj inviting hin to

lunch. )}
sus yom Bins for info on GOLUS & K. KASIEV)'safing that both Soriet officials
* 22 Apr 59° have been fn social contact w/sbre of the[SMADG) Logation-in Hale, Tis contact
instigated by GOLUB was allegedly to inqure ebout tion procedure,
Bue MAFBIEY acted as G's interpreter throughout the mtg? (SABLE) a trace in their
cea eens files referring to GOLUB as Soviet Intell Officar acting as liaison man w/the
Finniah Security Police,



iN 4 ob
On the evenine of 10 oot fuse wife were atferani hoge for
E and could not resist the urge te drink“ur thofVarid/Rrreyson
case. Xe had read the interpsyation. ret whien haa béen prepared
by one of his sen and had subsequently talked to 9 LUB on OLUS's
ative, O°L!3 had called him @ invited him to luadh and hy
Seseribed the incident at the alrmort quite factually, but wads |
placai very little credence in the accuracy of the accoupt. OOLUB
said that in view of the fact that the sig Anericen. athletes were
: left behind todawait visas, he could well understand that Torreyson
had needled /V4PIM] to the point of exasreration, He does not
beliere that anything further will cone of the case. Certainly
the Ministry of Intertor plans to forcet about it unless a new
orotest comes from the. Soviet Ambassador, LIB told{¥/I xnat 0!
a OCESTDhad behaved stunidly in the,whole affair and has been rg
ealled to the Soviet Inion, ves he has already depar tegp)
. CLUS also stated that(CeTD Hs a worried and upset man, Apparently the
. ‘Soviets, or at Least MLIB, do not believe(VAPID'sTull story, acc reels) 2 | :
ee for this doubtfulness is that the siapping incident occurred:

fe

d been speaking Fnelish to Torreyson, ODLUB thought -4t strange
SP1D, (tho speaks Finnishvell, shoudl not use that language

‘to _Torreyson, who-also has a fair comeand of Finnish.
tine vauters ef ‘busines

ant af s
to int-re

ine “gl ya 3

Gil, Leeve to

3593 as ter ares) (atation)have droped all contant w/aia singe the
eri by G, E. GOLUS hen
fan

. Heth 17 Oct 58. aerar é
. | departure of (VARI sinne_hie name ws montis
: (CYAstINES) he mute a t tof VANDEL ing[V. rare Tees W/inerteans, *-
Ol Genz, a re WSTIRSERG,)
es

1958,)
A

O3


* 1asaisé
Grigoriy Y, GOLUB \

-\\ GONTACTS oont - ad
Gallows 00 13 Apr Coatitle (KUBARK) ‘had lunch w/SubJ at vhich tine Cle treatnent

17” Apr 59 in the Soviet tage ree 9) was brought up, For details of this

Jengthy report, lchronos, i>) i
FHA] 39g1  Detatled report on Subj tacte we pes and(AEPANKEE/5, See :

0 2 Jul spatch in his 201 falder.
‘ 19 pen ‘artic. noticeable has been virtual cessatica of attempts by td/¥//iSubJ
G16 Nov $9 to moot and entertain the An Vice Consul, wo had been subject to almoat

weekly telephone calla and invitations during the spring and early sumer,
: SubJ's new reticence dates from Aug. 15 whec he vas entertained by Am Vice 4
ie Consul at a dimer in a Hels dance-restaurext, Since that tine Subj H
} has called the Vice Consul only once to take bim to lunch on Oct, 126
OFHAJ4223 ~~ sringing igs up to date re ASPAYK: relationsip, Continue to see
undated ~ _each other on wre':ly bisis, otc, = see dispatch in his 201 file,

8359 | TAscusston of Souvee's desire to ro-Chine riz the (Ladivestokon the
Traaselitertan Uailroad, thea thry Chir: t Peling and Ssanerat, and
outg th possiblity of h 1 Chinese visa, ete, LUE
exild, ete, Prior to GOL’
?d sec on dipl List =
and wold enjov carmine on

dask Sn! oscow and rasconst
the Sovin’ tn “els,

I



SOL

» Grigerty Ye,

Firnish is ex-ellent and that G. ~laizs |
fo know no Srylivb. ‘iovever, viien “. wis having aiffirulty wftunisn, GOLUB
was able to put these Enylish words into Ansish. \
2 3900 Subj told Costitle (KUBARK) that he bad been in Finl nov for about four years
2 Fay 59 ani that be had been enjoying himzelf very much and liked Finl ani the Plane,
Be said that be was glad. that hedid not speak English as he vould then probably
be sont to England or the U.S,, vhich in his opinion were too far froa his homo
in the Soviet Union, Acedg to Subj, this made travel hore, as vell as phone
calls, too expensive, When Costille asked him vhere he vould like to be sext
naxt, he ansvered Moscov,- He stated that over three yoars was tou long to be

‘froa_one's country, .
a2 feigin er Chim ‘Orftotal in Mintetry of Interior] OF.
dn 390% on 26 Maroh GOLUB, Sov Congul in Hels, said KHRUSGUREY planning pay unofficial
1 Apr 59 visit to Finl at end his Scandinavian trip in late August,  COLUB hoped there

wOFORE vould be no Soviet spy cases made public to becloul visit, (Source conme:
—Jo h cases presently unier preparation
Doforaa yas tn subatted tree forms dealing x/Sovie ration and eitivenship 7

Which had heen given to the U.S. Consulate by GOLUE, (Hos coment: The forms
evidently went. to SR from RI = they did not cone“into ¥=/1/C=)
RalGraD 4237 Th Dec Source said that SOLUS had told VaLDvyI) that a “ester arent, vho
& Dec 59. crossed the Fi-nish-Soviet border n=: atra on 13 May '19§9 had teen arrested
os gGamy and yas being held by the Soviets. did not r-veal ‘the nane of the agent,
tut said that he had heen trained industria, To the station's knowledz®,
there have been no RDSOX missions run vin Finland hy FUBA%K since 1953. Does
as know of any 2°TSOX arents who Steanpenred in May? Cr is GCLUB raking
2 the story? (To SR Division fananske=
QAOrajursé—T secuel to info stven tie 37, arove, On y Lec atout 0330 hrs,(CaLinn/S) O |
. Dec 59 RE. +

called Roodine (F at RYs hono and said thet he vould like to see hin on
OF} GLX) an urgent ~atter--net hin half an hour later, and he rel=ted the followings
SCLUB had reported to(VALNE{A-at a western agent

%, been arrested in the |
Sev Union near Inatra, but on the Sov side of the boner, OG, had said that 1
the avent had teen recurited {n witzerland and dispatched across the border
on 19 Kay of 1959. The arent had cone to Hels on 17 May and had teen net by a
nan-described as hetveen 35 and 32 vrs old, about 1°0 cn, tali; the 7an snoked a
pipe, spoke good Znglish and passable Finnish, his man had driven the azent to
the finnish border in a Lode auto, hearing Lesnse plate 37-153, Warnr/al O ¢
estigated and found that the car ws om ed ty(cerreyson's (unilateral of | Dlo
NE SK'SY firm and thoucht therefore that[EUcam) night be involved, He wanted
fo wa Us, so culled Poodine. Zoggine che our 3 military attaches’ offices
wineg results ard then went to[torMéySén).if find out if he had even loaned his
ear for any such trips or was sosehow Involved indirectly, legative answer,
Seodine thinks the whoo story is provocation, concocted by the Soviets and
set afoot thru GCLI'B to serve as a counter-tlance to recent revelations of
Sew espionare in Finl, (See cab Joint *ecks for 11 Lec 59)(sic). Poodein goes
ea to say that it ts interasting that the Communist newspaper
ewrtod an editorail on the 1Cth of Lec accusinz the Security
Lovestizating cises of wostom esniona-e, STaseraee
Fats wife rotd_to n 7 ov and tised bir after an absence of
stout & -onths OY 2/3 states that the relations'1> anpears te te the
sore as Ut vas befor ore G, Loft, gpd) “CUR wus elod to have hor Mek.
De vife isos friendly seal 5 ts 3

Olgeniijuzey Wie dispatch refers too relitisn
Y

com

aad tt ts Restoyad >

or’
ortarce te





SR/2/c8
9 Dec 58
On 21 May[VALINK/1] was informed by GOLUB that he (G,) had been surmoned to

7
59

oy

OOLUS, Origoriy Ye.

RIS
Subj suspected of belonging to the KGB,
ol

Leningrad for a A) w/a repn of the Soviet Internal Security Police (presumably
MVD). While there, GOLUB had beon instructed to detereine vhat security peocaution
the Police of Sweden, Norway ard Denmark plen to take to insure the safety of
KHRUSHCHEV during his August visit to the Scan countrie During the conversation,
G, was very oritical of hia Soviet collecgues in Stoc, Oslo ard Cope, for their
failure to develop close relations w/repns of the Security Police of those
countries, G, was vorried not only about his on inability to develop the info
requested, but also.for the cafety of K. during this trip. 6, did not know

for sure vhtber K, vould visit Finland on this trip, but believed that if he did,
At would occur after the visit to the other 3 countries, and. that any visit to

Fin) would be purely unofficlale :



i

ia
OC uactassieieo == ORY
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CO CONF’ DENTIAL. Ef secret

SUBJECI: [Opnonal),
Tom T=
a

Jag

TO: (Omer denigaanon, room muaber, ond
Ddestding)

ometes
Gomme Tramway] MALS
eramen | romwatneo

SR'6/Bio

COMMENTS [Number sock comment te show hos whom
We chon, Drow @ hee cure colven otter each comment)

et" REACAF sheet w/protes for
Grigoriy Ye, GOLUB

bs 13 Aug 23
| wife: Nyna P,doroma, b, 20 Kov

|-whe served a8 2nd Secy (Chief ef
Consular Syction), Soviet
in Eglsinki frea about Dec 55

—T—] te 27 Fed 60,

Subject 1s EES suspect KB.

Suggest attachment be filed in
Subject 201 (201-150156) and

TJ
I

kept on parnanent retention in
SR/6/Bio

1s.

a. 610 “are? (CY secret

|

(CONFIDENTIAL

O NAL) unctassiFveo
