104-10236-10126

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Tren Sr
_UFG-1636
4 Octobor 1962

S-E-C-R-E-T
__| CONTROLLED DISsEM

REPORT COVER SHEET

ut IMWAVE

Tuvomt ine ore ieee

Alice B, CAPMONG
mLvoRts OFricie aieail au
terre OO vor K. PAHOCK

aeraovine Oreicr® .

Andrew K, REUTEMAN

GACECAOUNO DATA AND COMMEWTEY

GYROSE

Source: AMBUD-1 obtained tho infurmation from Gerarda
QUESADA a representative on the CRC who in turn received
a letter from an ANIBAL in Cuba, Date of letter is

12 September,

We regret that the names of the ships are badly garbled,
the MISTURIN is: probably thé MICHURIN whereas no better
‘solution could be found for SEBONEK, It would be most
appreciated if Headquarters/Reports could manage to
expedite the procurement of the list of Soviet flag
vessels available in SR/Reports,

The information here will also supplement that previously
forwarded under UFG-1622, Last part of FCI AMBUD-1 from
“pRADO" in ‘letter dated 7 September, “PRADO" is a member
of RESCATE in Cuba,

Tw ACcOuPanviNG AEFORT

ENTRIES OCLOw ECO ROT OF FILLED IN IF DUFLIC
DISTRIBUTION

OPTIONAL:

Tuten acency

TaTRar AGENCY

4 - Headquarters
1 - 00/¢
1 - Files

wa, oF eactosuaes

Berewinces

-E-C-R-F-’
D

S-E. T
CONTROLLED DISSEM

io WNGT oe



FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

Oy Net eavelly reliable.
lity cannot be jedlyed (An

Carette
meultletentty tested #
ty reve, ar Doubt,

le sowces, 2: -Probubly nue. 3

APPRAISAL OF COMTENT: Ir Confirmed by other Independent ond re!
5: Probably Falem, 61 Cennat be rudged.

S-E-C-R-E-T
CONTROLLED DISSEM
COUNTRY Cuba REPORT NO. UFG-1636
‘SUBJECT Activities by Foreign DATE OF REPORT 4 October 1962
Persunnel in the Sagua la
Grande Area NO. PAGES
REFERENCES
DATE OF :
INFO. 17 August to 3 September 1962
PLACE & United States .
DATE ACQ.
Fas UNEVALUATED inr Onwat ion, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPHATSAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE: Loading official (C) in an anti-Castro group in exile,

from a member. of an anti-Castro group in exile from a
friend in Cuba. Appraisal of Content:

1. Cuban nationals ave not permitted entry to a camp of about
1,000 Soviets at Ranchoria (N 22-52, W 80-08, grid reference
899/294 ANS Series E723, shect 41841) about four kilometers
from Sagua 1a Grande (N 22-48, W 80-05, grid reference 950/220
AMS Series E723, sheet 418411) on the road from Sagua la
Grande to Isabela de Sagua. (N 22-56, W 79-40, grid reference
015/370 AMS Serics E723, sheet 41841). Cuban nationals are
also- not permitted access to an encampment of about 800
Soviets .in the Rodrigo area (N 22-41, W 80-11, ‘grid reference
NR-830/085 AMS Series E723, shect 418411) between Quemado
de Guines (N 22-47, W 80-15, grid reference NR-770/200
AMS Series E723, sheet 418411) and Santo Domingo ‘(grid
reference NQ-780/975). There are an additional three
Soviet occupied camps at three locations along the road
from Santa Clara (N 22-24, W 79-58, AMS Series E723, sheet
4283121) to Caibarien (N 22-32, W 79-28, AMS Series £723,
sheet 43831V); each of these camps has about 800. Soviets.

2, Cuban nationals are not permitted access to a camp of
about 500 Soviets about one half kilometer from the Rio
Sagua at the outskirts of the town of Sagua la Grande.
This last camp has a large quantity of heavy equipment,
which cannot be better described because of the fact that
the populace in the urea consist primarily of fisherman
and farmers, Some of the cargo was of such a bulky nature
that a special truck had to preceed the loaded trailer
trucks and cut the electrical wires to allow for the passage
of the loads, It was generally said in the area that this
cargo included MiG 15 and MiG 19 aircraft and a new type of
radar directed anti-aircraft artillery which would fjre
automatically once the radar locked onto the target.

S-E-C-R-E-T
CONTROLLED DISSEM

PNW e
rw ee

DISTRIBUTION

wo


be S-E-C-R-E-T
CONTROLLED DISSEM

spiesy ae

3, This military matericl entered Cuba in five Soviet flag
3 vessels through Isabela de Sagua during the period 17
August to 3 September; two of these were the MISTURIN
and the SEBONEK.2 It is estimated that there was probably
about 60,000 tons of cquipment which was unloaded Zrom
these ships,3 od

Field Comment: 3

1, Similar radar directed antiaircraft artillery has also
been installed ‘at Morro Castlo as well as along the
coast from Habana to Matanzas. Another source, a
member of a counter-revolutionary organization in
Cuba has also reported that sew radar and associated
“artillery has been installed at Morro Castele.

2, The MISTURIN is probably the MICHURIN, It was not
possible to provide a better name for the SEBONEK.

3, The original text of the information was not clear as
to whether or not "60 mil" tons were unloaded from the
two mentioned ships or from all five ships,

TAT

S-E-C-R-E-T
CONTROLLED DISSEM

TEAM ace ets MUTE 2g)! RA INUIT te tocar eager sanecunradenenen
PY Tat cca TRE tants wdereicty en i aerate smn Seed Mere ene tie. Acie

