‘iio4-40186-40318 [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INT.il ENCE AG ine ¥

alted Biase wr athe meentny tate. eer tae The
meaner tee unaythoreed sew op peunitited Bote

, Tes materia cv Moemation aferuog the Hetlonal Deruee of re
UW 0B0. Beck ae THK IB trncemccion, or peretauion nc wRKY ia

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FORFIGN DiSSEM

REPORT NO. CS -311/00866-64

Countay Cuba .

SUWECT Report on Cuban Docu-entation and OAIE DISTR 22 July 1964 RETURNTO CA
Procedures of the Genes. Directorate
‘of Intoliagence (Di1ecesa: General NO. PAGES 6 “Go Na Rowena

de_Intel:sencta - Di)
rman ‘REFERENCES, CS-311,/00115-84
E : CS-31 1/09343-64
OATE OF To March 1964 CS-311,: 9716-64
INFO,

ACE &

DATE ACQ. Qi FIELO REPORT NO.
THis (3 UNEVALUATED WOO v4. SOURCE OMADINGS ARE OL/INITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE,
source: A former Cuban [3 officer who served with the Cuban Intelli-

gence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The following information, as “reported
. by suuree during a di uring a debricfing, reveals the misuse of official

documentation and procedures by the General Directorate of

Intelligence. (Direccion General do Inteligencia - DGI).

Use of Altered and Fraudulent Documents by Cuban Intelligence

1. Cubans and other Latin American nationals operating for the General !
Directorato of Intelligence (Dircccion General de Inteligencia - |
DGI) of the Cuban Ministry of [nterfor are issucd Cuban passports

ot in alias by the Cuban Foreign Ministry. These passports are.

considered legal in all respects by Cuban authorities, Cuban
agents also use valid passports of a number of Latin American
countries in which false entries are provided by Cuban intelligence ©
authorities, The documents used by non-Cubans operating under
IS auspices are inteaded to hide all traces of their travel into

and out of Cuba, :

Cuban Diplomatic Passports

2, Cuban diplomatic passports are issued in alias to IS staff per-
sonnel, consisting exclusively of Cuban nationals, They aro
never issued to aliens operating as agents of IS, There are
over 500 staff employees, according to Source, all of whom are.
eligible to receive Cuban diplomatic passports in alias, A
little over 100 staff employees are estimated by Source to have
been doaumented in this way,

“5
, : 4
S-E-C-R-E-T : co 3.
NO FOREIGN DISSEM : Sco
‘ Seceisece, 1
rare Ey Tater [wavy Tas [ese Tax Toca TF 2

REPCINCLANT CINCSO # I&NS
Hotes Heid diiron ented by ="

TLX- 1572
{NP (ANMUG-1)
JCS-311/00866-64

esrmereeiers
ey at

ease TE 3, CI 21, RID/AN 1, TSD 1, WH/SA 46 (ss eee sD/88/
WR (57), AF 8 (8), FE 8B (10), FS 12 (8), NET (19) dy phone

[peste a, ch Bator, ACSI, _O.
Rs



Hégrs Disse:

WH COPS
WH POA-
WR: PO/B
Wa RO
WH/T .
WR/2
WH’3
WH/4
WH/S
WH/6
WH/R

WH/SA/EOB
WH/SA “MOB.
WH’SASR
WH/SA/Int

wHy SA/CI 3
“WH; SA/SO/NS

. CI Staff
CI Liaison
CI/REA
RID/AN

AaF/1
AF/2
AF/3.
AF/4
AF/R
AF/CI

EE/S
EE/SA
EE/BR
EE,YA
EE/R
EE/P
EE/C
EESLUIS

FEPNI/T
FE JXO/JO
FE, JXO/K
FE/VNC/VN
FE/R-
FE/CL

TSD

ap

eee tet Tt Sor trent tenet ts)

Bae

z

S-E-C-R-E-T ”
NO FORZTIGN DISSEN

-la-

WH/RIOD

NE/AS/L&S 1
NE/AA/AP WH/CURT
NE/AA/E 1 WH/BRIL
NE/AAST 1 YI wysaop
NE/5/P 1 WH/BHIA
_-ME/G/C&I 1 WH/BEHO
NE/Toto] 7 WH/LGRE
NE/CT 4 WH/RECT
q WH/BLEM
WE/1 1
WE/2 1 WH/SA/WAVE
WE/3 1 ea
WE/4 1 AF/ALGI
WE/S 1 A¥/ORNA
WE/BC 1 AF/RABA
1 AF/CASB
AE/ACCR
AF/CNRY
Field Dissem \AF/BAKO.
\F/DARE
WH/MEXT 1
WH/MNTY 1 E/VIEN
WH/MRID EE/SBUR
WH/SDOM 1 EE/CYRU
WH/SNDR 1 EE/ATHE
WH/SJAN 1 EE/KAVA
\WH/PIBO. 1 EE/SLON
WH/POSN od EE/BERN
WH/KNGS = 1. EE/GNVA
\WH/PRIN = EE/2URL
]KH/GORG = 1 EE/HAMB
WH/PACY 2
WH/MANA 1 FE/DJAK
WH/SJOS = 1 FE/MEDN
WH/SALV | FE/SURA
WH/TEGU 1 FE/TOKY
WH/GUAT = FE/OKIE
WH/LAPA 1 FE/SEOU
WH/BOGO 1 FE/SAIG
WH/QUIT = 1 ¥E/KOBE
WH/GAYA 1
WH/LIMA 1 NE/COLO
WH/CARA 1 NE/NEWD
WH/BUEN = 1 NE/BOMB
WH/COBA Z NE/CALC
WH/MONT = 1 NE/MDRS
WH/ASUN 1 NE/KUWA
WH/SAGO 1 | NE/KAHT
S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CS-311/00566-64

YE Pa tat rat Dat bat at a a tpt tt et Pt be

WE/PARI
Liaison Dissem

1EfCanada) ij
CMP’ 1
refBritishll 1

L/WASHABR]\\ 2

PEE Dt tt dad tat ba bat at Dat a at aha Da ae a Att tt ee

PE ad tat tat

2
ps)


4.

7

c, One/photograph..

CS-311/G0866-64

Issuance of diploaatic passports in alias is an automatic
process whenever an IS staff employee travels on assignment
abroad, The employee involved provides the following itoms,
which he selects personally, to one “Felix Rafael," in the
DGI, who jens the material to the Foreign Ministry:

b, Dipfonatie title,

tes with real assignments, For instance, Source chose

itle of “Consular. Inspector" {ins ector Consular) for his
ry determined that

te same area about that time. The Foreign Ministry official
arged with issuing alias diplomatic passports for IS porsgn-~
[él is one Otero, Chief of the Diplomatic Passport Section.
tero does the work on-short order, even completing a job on
the same date the requést is received, if necessary.

Frequently IS personnel using diplomatic passports travel in

small groups, For instance, Source traveled to Mexico in
arly 19G4 with a group of six or soven staff employees, a1]

nding. diplomatic passports.
There ee no distinguishing features, @ithor in the passport

serial nimber, the diplomatic title, or any other entry in a
diplomatic passport issued in‘alias to distinguish it from a

bona-fide document.

Cuban Ordindry Passports .
‘dinary passports are issued in alias to IS agents, in-

Cuban

cluding Cubans and nationals of other Latin American countries, —

by the Cuban Foreign Ministry in much the same way as in the
caselof diplomatic passports. In addition to the -bearer's
photdgraph, an agent provides cover information on himself
for so in the"passport which conforms as closely as possible
to his real life, As an example, Source cited his own case,
soyigg that he furnished a cover story containing his true
data of birth, but listing him as. single, even though he is
oe ices Typical occupations shown on ordinary passports
used by. IS agents are “student" (estudiante) and "laborer"

(ohrero) .
obrero)

i

The only distinguishing feature for differentiating between
a fone ordinary passport issued in‘alias to an IS agent and
a bona-fide document is a special code for the serial number.
Source thinks that alias passports for IS agents bear five=
digit serial numbers while bona-fide passports bear six-
digit serial numbers, Source's theory was based on the fact
that his ordinary passport issued in alias bore a five-digit
number while the bona-fide passport issued to his wife bore
a*six-digit number, This premise is in direct contradiction
with a study of the numbering system found to be in use on
Cuban ordinary passports, A pattetn in numbering is found,
w{th occasional discrepancies, in which a new set of acces-
sion numbers is used each year, Thus, serial numbers will
bo lower on passports issued at the beginning of the year
than on those issued later in the same year, The serial |

a

: $-E-C-R-E-T :
NO FOREIGN DISSEM i



9.

10.

-3- CS-311/00866-64

numbers are generally in a five-digit pattern, although tt
was noted that from June to December 1962 they ascended to

six-digit numbers,

Source's ordinary passport issued in alias was allegedly ob-
tained in January 1964, but was given an issuance date of 28
August 1963 and bears a serial number consistent with the
accession pattern for the latter issuance date, Likewise,
five other Cuban ordinary passports issucd in 1963 in alias
for use by agents under Source's supervision Year serial
numbers adhering to the accession pattern corresponding to

their particular dates of issue.

Grommets recently ceased to be used on photographs in Cuban
ordinary passports,

Bona-fide Visas, Vaccination Certificates, and Passages

11.

12.

13.

14,

Types of Foreign Passports Used by IS Agents

Diplomatic visas for use in Cuban diplomatic passports in alias

are applied for directly by the Cuban Forcign Ministry to the

foreign mission concerncd in Havana, In Source's case appli-

cation was first made in March 1964 fcr a Chilean viso and ?
later for a Mexican visa, even though no travei to Chilo was
contemplated, The reason for this was awareness by Cuban

authorities of fexican suspicion of Cuban diplomatic personnel,

The Cuban authorities believed the Mexican Embassy in Havana”

would be less suspicious of a passport containing a visa from

another Latin American country

Passage bookings and international vaccination certificates
for use by staff employees and agents using Cuban alias pass-
ports are also obtained through the Cuban Foreign Ministry.
Vaccination certificates are obtained from the Instituto
Cubano de Amistad con los Pueblos (ICAP). IS personnel's
passages are always booked on Cubana Airlines because such
fares are payable in Cuban pesos. No passages are booked on
Soviet or Czech airlines because these require payment in
U.S. dollars, which are scarce tor the Cuban Government.

After a Cuban diplomatic passport has been us for one round
trip, an exit permit from the Cuban Foreign Ministry, known
as "Visto Bueno,” is required for each subsequent departure
from Cuba, The Foreign Ministry tssues these to personnel
using alias passports in the same way as they would for bona-
fide documents,

Foreign visas in ordinary passports issued in alias to IS
agents are applied for directly by the agents to the foreign
missions concerned in Havana,

15.

The Cuban IS makes use of valid passports from a number? of
countries, including Mexico, 11 Central American countries,
Argentina, British Guiana, Colombia, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Haiti, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezucla, for document-
ing its agents. The IS had no access to, nor necd for, pass-
ports from Spain and the United States. Source specified
that the [S does not use Uruguayan passports because the
Cuban Government does not wish to endanger its good relations
with that country. Valid filled-in and blank passports from

NO FORE TGN | DISSE: M


16,

17.

~4- CS-311 OO8G6-64

the vartous countries are obtained by the TS through the local
Communist Parties an the countries concerned,

ne

The {S$ has no capabilities tor mak.ag false passports or in-
ternal decuments trom any country vccause of the difficulty \
of matching the paper aad the technical problems involved ta \
the engraving and printing process, Ut also lacks capability  \
for craut ing entries in passports because uf the problem

invelved in attempting to delete entries without defacing the \

documents.

F. lsificatton and forgery is. limited to filling in valid blank
foreign passports, making photograph and page substitutions in
vona-fide for¢ign passports, and placing false travel entries
in foreign passports, Travel entries trom western Europe and
Latin America can be forged. Source did not know whether the
IS itself made the photograph and page substitutions and for-
gerics, All documents requiring forgeries and substitutions
were turned over to one "Alfonso," in the 1S, who took them to
a site unknown to Source. Source theorized that the forgeries
and substitutions may have been done by the Departamento do
Seguridad del Estado (Department of State Security - DSE), the
counteriatelligence arm of the Cuban Government, which he said
has much wore personne} than the DGL.

Travel Pattern of IS Agents

18.

19,

Prospective agents recruited by the IS in other Latin American
countries and brought to Cuba for training in methods of sabo-
tage and other subversive activities are provided with detached
visas and spurious passports to conceal the fact that they ever

entered Cuba,

In order that no Cuban visa will appear in an agent traince's
bona-fide passport on his way to Cuba, the Cuban mission in a
Latin American country issues the Cuban visa on a separate
sheet of pape In 1963 most agent trainces were being brought
into Cuba through Mexico, where the Cuban Embassy issued the
separate visas, Early in 1963 Mexican immigration officers
began using a rubber stamp bearing the notice "Salio para

Cuba" (Departed for Cuba), with the date on it, which they
automatically stamped in all passports of travelers proceeding
to Cuba. To counter this move ‘the 1S began replacing, wherever
possible, the pages of the passports bearing this entry with
blank pages from valid passports from the same countiy as that
of the traveler. Source alsu believes that in 1964 the travel
pattern of a few prospective agents proceeding to Cuba may have
been modified, thus decreasing slightly the number enter.
through Mexico.

To conceal the agent's travel when leaving Cuba, he is provided
for the first leg of the journey with a Cuban ordinary passport
in alias, The route of travel is from Havana to Prague. Czech
authorities collect these passports upon landing in Prague.
Source does not ‘snow what disposition is made of the Cuban
passports by the Czechs, but he asserts that they are never
returned to the agent, .

C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



21,

22,

Quality and Availability of Spurio:

- he CS-311/00866-64

For the second leg of the Lourney, carrying the agent from
Prague via western Europe back to his native land, he is pro-
vided in Havana, betore departu with a passport from another
Latin American country. The non-Cuban passport may be the
agent's bona-fide document which has been returned to him or
it may be another valid Latin American passport pressed into
service for the purpose. If the agent's own passport bears
no. evidence of travel into Cuba it will be used for this pur-
pose, being “brought up to date” with forged western European
entries to explain the gap between the time when he left for
Cuba and when he arrived in Prague, but showing his mode of
travel to be such that he never passed through e1ther Cuba or
Czechoslovakia, - Should the agent's bona-fide passport bear
the Mexican cachet showing that he proceeded to Cuba, the IS
replaces the page bearing Such cntry with a blank page from a
valid passport of. the same country if feasible, If page sub-
Stitution is not possible, either because no other passport
from the same country is available or because substitution
proves too difficult, the 1S will provide the agent with
another passport, from his own country if availabie, or from
another Latin American country. The substitute passport may
be a f1lled-in original, in which case a photograph substitu-
tion will be made, and the agent will travel under the identity

of the original bearer,

In other cases, where valid blank passports are used, the agent
may even travel under his true identity after "surfacing" on
the second leg of the journey, in western Europe, provided the
passport used is from his own country. In such a case informa-
tion from his bona-fide passport will be copied directly in

the blank passport, If the passport is from a country differing
from that of the agent, his identity will be changed. As in
the case of travel under the agent's bona-fide passport, in

the case of Spurious non-Cuban passports, false travel entries
are made to account for the agent's time spent in Cuba, placing
him in western Curope, but not in Cuba nor Czechoslovakia,

during that period,

Documentation

23.

24.

Providing documentation for agont trainees is the responsibility
of the IS country desk officer handling trainees from the par-
ticular country. The country desk officers receive and main-
tain custody of passports coming from the Communist Parties in
their areas of jurisdiction, Although the agent's training in
Cuba may take several wecks, or even a few months, it often
takes a year or more for the country desk officer to be able
to provide his trainces with the proper documentation. Source
commented that invariably a country desk officer will be short
one Spurious passport in his "collection" of passports for a
group of about six trainees, Where possible the officer will
“borrow” a passport trom his colleague from another country

desk. ‘

On at least one occasion forged travel entries made in an
agent's passport were found to have a chronological error

shortly before the agent's. departure from Cuba, The error
consisted of a false exit cachet fora given port of entry
bearing a date preced that furnished on the talse entry
cachet for the same port of entry, a: physical impossibility
in true life. Despite the discovery of this error the IS

” S-E-C-R-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


$-F-C-R E-T
*Q FOREIGN “LSSEM

-6-

S-311/00866-64

made no attempt to make a correction, hoping that no immigra-
tion inspectors abroad would notice the discrepancy.

Presumably Juan Nilo Otero

1, Headguarters Comment.
Rodriguez, Director of the Secretariat of the Foreign

Minister.

» S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
