# 104-10250-10206

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10250-10206*DARD 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Office Memorandùm UNITED STATES' GOVERNMENT

TO

:

Deruty Chief, Special Sucurity Divissan

DATB: 23 December: 1952

Chief, Special Referral Branch

FROM :

SUBJECT:

BALMES, Hidalgo

#65077

1. Pursuant to your request contained in memorandum

dated 22 December 1952, Special Agent James M. SPROUSE contacted

on 23 December 1952, in order to

determine the permissibility of a contact of the Subject by

the FBI and the procedures by which this contact could be

made.

2. Mr." PAXTON advised the Agent that the Subject is

presently in Panamal and that there is no objection on the part

of WH to the Subject being contacted by, the FBI. He stated

that the Subject could pe contacted at

32

Mr. PAXTON also stated that if it

were preferable the Subject could be interviewed by their station

personnel and this information furnished to SSD for relay to

FBI. PAXTON stated that the FBI had an agent named WARNER

in tanama, who recently had been in contact with the Subject

He said that WAPNER knows the Chief of Station in Panama la17 16-7

would probably contact him before interviewing the Subject.

PAXTON requested that he be advised if the Subject was

to be contacted by an FBI representative and of the approximate

late of the contemplated contact. He desired this informatio

so that the Chief of Station in Panama could be alerted to the

FBI's approach. 27,16-7

1 Lash

Qudero S. Saucle

Andrew G.

Maucher

Hafored Me Yiel talen

that if would beas

to enterorio.

hul pagich t notion paris as the levere

der people in panamal

RET

SECURITY INFORMATION

---

