“'404-10113-10030) H [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
« 7 “

aoe

Pe


“tpg

z

[eteuneiaaly “OVERSEAS PROCESSING SHEET
supsect_ Comeere , Becta Eby, Yo. 5 ORS~
Title and Grade Bren. Oyte Off Mogae. Office & Division A

Estimated~gate of travel, CI PCS val

Destination| \ wa<g p) 2 Cover ffonone fH. aml
<< 4%y

Itinerary LAee C

SECURITY FACTORS

Item Action Initiated Completed
1. Date of polygraph
1¥ ey S 3
|
CI CRYPTO
mys Po
= Q

= Concurrence el eo ecco

3. Flegs:

4. Other: Saudigicl_ eves wer ahh ed for 7 D Que hechnaed.

Lian saa B Hhef MPD .nikl tah, Lionel

a ee oo.

Information regarding travel obtained from

Fhe

Processing Sheet completed by Lola Date

/



3|A

“TRAVEL ORDER
oS Bay 395
Wau :
Jaca EB CORATR 258
Tiree : ORFICIAL STATION
Arss Uys’ G¢ficer (Sigm ist, [3-
You aro hereby authorized to travel and. incur necessary expenses in accordance with
Agency Regulations. - : :

TTINGRARY

Tevel aitheriee’ troa ¥eantoghos B- €.. to(Feige. tudecnios)
(32

ALLOTMENT AGGOUNT SYMBOL
oan aoe aed

1D. be wader MAG cover Gale only allaws exe Ject te remila br
Bite Y2$ Gear witi therofere ta cat year

COSRDINATION, AB REQUIRED (TO GE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE) =
Cpe ~ (7 omner OPERATIONAL AREAS (Co teaver CLEARANCE (IF OBTAINABLE)

Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance aa (COST OF TRAVEL
with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized. $ paste
TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY CERTIFICATION or mmobmnantamten —

5 dene 19% v%i me. P Certified a True Copy. Signed
MODE OF TRAVEL (SPECIFY) copy on file-in Central Process-
bie ett see ing Branch. Reviewed. No change
TLL DWANGE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE he

indicated.”

1 we sven cents ren mite, Nor TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

(7 amy seven cents ren mine, As BEING MonE ADVANTAGEOUS 79
Site GOVERNMENT.

ig] THE CHANGE oF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED 16 TEFEGTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT ANJ/NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE,
—] msonuecrton w a won oF STATION, YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT, YOUR IMMEDIATE TAWEY, 100m, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PER.
IN CONNECTION Wi oye WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS SET FORTH 18 AGENCY REGULATIONS,

ee eae DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD Goons, PERSONAL
TRPEGTS AND AUTOMOBILE, tS AUTHORIZED.

ETURN FROM POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

(7) SERRE, iio‘ cUrowonne, 1 AUTHORIZED. cay i a ty Wes 26 Yay 5h

(1 pepanvanre ro reaver with EMPLoveR,

[= cemenowrs ro TRAVEL wirnin ONE YEAR OF EMPLOYEE.
: PRD L.A, CPT. FOC

(J remronany pury.
SS Rae STL OF AUTHORIEING OFFICIAL (PED

K Mareliva. FE/GET :
Gordcn B. Stews. CHF

FORMNO. 33.277 5 z ae ve
oct 19st 7 surenstons PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF FORMS 83-27, 38-20, 24-6 24-64

(DATED SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

‘4-8, 26-207 AND 37-60 WHICH MAY NOT BE USED.
$8 U. 6. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1981 - 07620"


TRAVEL ORDER LV One
CAS d

Lucien fe £

res

OFFICIAL STATION

Inteliigenns Offleer PeRcLaztony 26 Co

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with
Agency Regulations.

\5-%e
« Ce. & &thens, Crsece te(Fyaakiat, Oermey retrn
le Ce i

SPECIAL PROVISIONS (INCLUDE APPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

This saunels the originel ortar ax Aomiaent f 1 in teir eahirety.

‘COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

ee (1 orner OPERATIONAL AREAS (“1 reaver CLEARANCE (IF OBTAINABLE)
Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance isnadunreiiaetruaeniieaseiainrnie
with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized. $

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT ‘TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY CERTIFICATION (ov Processing srancn

Certified a True Copy. Signed
copy on file in Central Process-
ing Branch, Reviewed. No chang
necessary. Amended as indicated.

05

MODE OF TRAVEL (SPECIFY)

ALLOWANGE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE

(A) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

(B) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO
THE GOVERNMENT.

SIGNATURE =i

THE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED I5 EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION, YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PER-
SONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT TO WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS SET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS,

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD Goons, PERSONAL |}
EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED.

RETURN FROM POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL
EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, 18 AUTHORIZED.

DEPENDENTS To TRAVEL WITH! EMPLOYEE, Hoted by KPDt 13 May Sh
Serenoehe Yo AYER OHI OHEYEAR OF ELOTEE ass we SOWELL, CAPT.y AOC

NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL (TYPE)

OUU 0 0 OO 0 0

TATE) > “SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL
RM METS oper, CFd - (20-487
PO ee eet pknois PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF FORMS 33-27, 33-28, 36-4, 344A, 34-8, 36-207 AND 37-00 WHICH MAY NOT BE UBT”
Vi oe

sil


Bat _o * Spore

TRAVEL ORDER
% Armd Wh :
OFFICE PHONE
lacten Be COWES : i325
OFFICIAL STATION
intelligence Officer ‘ | teshiugtes,
are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with

y'
.gency Regulations.
FrINERARY 15-20

Bamhinctany Ts Co to Attwar, Greeny to Praakterts CORARNR CHER ADLE:

to tasitagten, Te Ce

NAME,

OBLIGATION REFERENCE No.

CHARGE TO ALLOTMENT No.

SPR PROTONS GHELUSE GPPRSPRTESORTIFEATIORY AUTHORIZING OFFICER

ise potas rsd edieabes papas ome pr mRNGr pay are evaileblis te the
fea te tawveler of

or Hecate chica eee

COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

Ooo Co ornen orenarionat ancas OD rnearen cLeanance Wp onrAINaniea

Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance RexIMATED [COST] OF TRAVEL

with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized. $

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY CERTIFICATION coy rnc

Certified a True Copy. Signed
mebe or manvet tener copy on file in Central Process—
ing Branch. Reviewed. No change
‘ALLOWANCE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE necessary. Amended as indicated.

0 ca seven cents ren MILE, Nor TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER. 0%

(2) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO
THE GOVERNMENT.

THE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED IS EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.
IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION. YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PER-
SONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT YO WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS SET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS,

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD. INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL
EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, 18 AUTHORIZED.

RETURN FROM POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING rene da oF Hite fos GOODS, PERSONAL

pebencere ol TRAvee wind eeeustee Roted ty Hrbs 12 key 19h

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONE YEAR OF EMPLOYEE. tp CAPTo» AGC
STOWELL, OAPTos

auueeaane ure PRED be .

Creer ean ere ae

63. _

\sE Oth J

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

FORMNO. 33.97

/ oct 1851

SUPERSEDES PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF

+207 AND 37-60 WHICH MAY NOT
;OVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE!

+ 287127

3ipd


OVERSEAS PROCESSING SHEET

svsreet Quart eco pcre © Vo, SOAS
Title and Grade Magan LSA. Office & Division DDFS

Estimated date of travel <> Meg oy my [=}—- Pes [7]
Destination -G and -- GS Cover

Itinerary

SECURITY FACTORS

Item Action Initiated Comple ted

1. Date of polygraph TY

2. Clearances:

HOUUO

3. Flags:

4. Others

Informtion regarding travel obtained fran : WAZA
Of

Processing Sheet completed by : ZOLA Date


oisiccicies FOd5

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

ofth
TRAVEL ORDER Belt /ok

‘ALLOTMENT ACCOUNT SYMBOL

13 Berth Bek : CAS Ope
Lacie Ee Cums ¢71,

‘OFFICIAL STATION

Tateliireace Offcer Warhlacterny Te Co
You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with
Agency Regulations. iz

(5-20
Fashingtoa, Ty Ce oe Orteer te(Pranfot, Corceg bot retarn
to Meshingioa, fe

aa

To confer on oporaticnel saitere in connentios with CBSPuss

SPECIAL PROVISIONS (INCLUDE APPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION) =

‘COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)
Ooo Dorner orenarionat Anca Co rnenren cLeanance Ur OBTAINABLE?

Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL
with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds “is authorized. ‘

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY CERTIFICATION tev Proct

an Certified a True Copy. Signed
a Se tag Ir copy on file in Central Process-

* oye ing Branch. Reviewed. No change
Bre moeiee Ae rotten tie arrcicnete necessary. Amended as indicated.

17 tas onven cents ren uite, Wor To EXCEEO COBT BY COMMON CARRIER.

(B) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO
THE GOVERNMENT.

(‘tne cance oF oFriciAt STATION INDICATED I9 EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOURPERSONAL CONVENIENCE.
[] im, connection witm cHaak or STATION, YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRANGFORT YOUR IMMEDIATE PAMILT, YOUN MOUSENOLD GOODS, PER-
SONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT TO WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVIGIONG AU ET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL
EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED.

RETURN FROM POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL
EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE. Military orders required WIE: for

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONE YEAR OF EMPLOYEE.

TEMPORARY DUTY.
NAME GND TITLE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL (TYPED

‘SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

|
|

SRENEST" 3227 vorcencoca rncviows toons or roma Seep
: rp sis te
31p) / bestia

96.207 AND 37-60 WHICH MAY NOT
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1)



Feee Ga ees ee

stnwoar Fors S2 ~ SECURITY hr]

To ere Samer conse

iaorae SECR, T VOUCHERED

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

REQUESTING OFFICE: Fill in items 1 through 12 and A through D except 6B and 7 unless otherwise i
If applicable, obtain resignation and fill in separation data on reverse,

NAME (ir.—Mise—Mre.—One given name, initial(s), ‘and surname) L DATE OF BIRTH ‘L REQUEST NO.

RAT

Lael a

‘C DATE OF REQUEST

Lucion E, GOMEIN _ 29 New 1919 281-53 20 Oct 19:
Soar aT eect ener appointment, promotion, separation, oto.) 7. CRO THOR
Reassigment (Key Personnel)
BR POSITION (Specify whether establish, change grade or title, oto.) oG} ep
RD
RECON cept
HII Operations Officer (F) 45-1 ‘ee me ™ Intell, Officer BDI
Mejor USA A. seayee crane, AnD Major USA \
: por/ 10, ORGANIZATIONAL ppp /SE 7 ‘
" Mission DESIGNATIONS SE, us |
Rurnberg Ops. Pase | 524 Office of the Vhief
Nurnberg, Germany 11, HEADQUARTERS \ashington, D. G,

! | [= ]e00 [ DEPARTMENTAL {2 FELD OR DEPARTMENTAL {7 ] re Cg] preor

A REMARKS (Use reverse if necessary)

pansfer IQ Vouchered Funis FRG Unvouchered Funds.

Concurrence 8,

Es Division ——————__—

BY (Name and title) . REQUEST APPROVED BY

G se/ADHIa
Signature:
OR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CALL (Name and telephone extension)
% = | Title:

Th. POSITION CLASSIFICATION ACTION

cp ~ FI

2. LEGAL RESIDENCE

a4 16,_| 17. APPROPRIATION 18. por 19. DATE OE AFCOUNT-
FROM: 3130 - 55 - 017 (ESO) Metssons ony) — | LJoLAIMED ((] PROVE
MW To: 4 ~ 3200 - 20 HO. STATE:

Zi. STANDARD FORM 50 REMARKS:

A
B. CEIL. OR POS. CONTROL.

T CLASSIFICATION : oy
'D. PLACEMENT OR EMPL fe
ca 7

Sip F, APPROVED BY

ZZ CLEARANCES INITIAL OR SIGNATURE DATE

