7 -T OF 1992
“|104-10194-10002) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS AC: |

* MATERIAL

REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT count

TTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF 3EMBERS eee

PILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: CEN SAN Fer:

INCLUSIVE DATES;

CUSTODIAL UNIT/IOCATION G

DELETIONS, IF ANY: “y

SIGNATURE OF REVIE}
7

WING OFFICIAL
=

“d GTIOUVH “NOSNYAS

ea

th
1

Gyan

@ 62291

No DOCUMENTS MAY RO COPIED OR RENOVED FROM THIS FILE



19 March 1974

NOTE FOR: DD/Pers/R&P

Dow:

Mr. Rodriguez called to mention that Mrs.

Ayirared Swenson, wife of Harold Swenson, is available
should a need for a qualified secretary ever arise

either on a full-time or part-time basis.

I told him I would send the name to you,
but I did not encourage him ag to the prospects. i

Or\
B." DeFelice
DD/Pers

* Doh i May 141%
Ji


fen you vetent

§. Peace
Fa for rw

Guu de apa
eae ier

H
i



_ 5995 kizemoor Lane
$trenda, saryland 2991h
3 Vece::ber 1968

To Director of rersonnel

Dear Sirs

Tris ls a request for an extension of tire within whieh to
move ry tousehold effects from Maryland to a retiremert site,
I retired at the ert of July 1963 and wy understerding 1a
that tie normal per{od ior moving to a retirorest oite is
six months or until 31 January 1969 in ny case. It also is
ny unjerstanting that you have discretionary authority to
extent tho tine. E

Hy roquest 1a based on the efrovunetancea destribded below.

y preceding velivement, my
rotucr lost Lor aig..t te glance: On ny return
fron oversuas Li. orier to rotire, one at problems wrich
faced re was tie cure of ny mother who had been living in
her ow apertmont dn few Jersey. ho wroblerm became ire
difiloult coincidentally with my retirement when in July my

‘mothor sufiered a fall, resulting in rultiple fractures of
ker hip. nape bag % unter the eave of two
doctora, iirst in a hospit.l s<1 cur-ently in n nureing rore,
The oxtent: to wien she will ve aole to walk 19 questionable.

During my tour of duty

frior w :otiring, I had planred to devote the tire irmedtately
after the offective «iate of retirement to exploring petirerent
sites. Uo accitort te my mother and problems related to it
have prevented the earrying ovt of ry plana, I remain uncortain
about my retirerent location and reaching a decision dovenda in
: Part on my pother's continuing need fcr care and upon my being
able to travel to investigate croupective retircsent sites,

I am eager to resolve the matter but Lt appears vost Lm-robable
that I atnli be adle to do so rrior to the end of next January.

Z shall appreciate your granting sn exte:s on of td..o for moving
our rouselold ef:ects. °

Very trily yours,

Jiapola F,. Swenson

Approved -- Subject to movenent of household effects conmencing before
SL guly 1969,
BAe fF
Reting Dir Ctr of Personnel _
~



(1 UNCLASSIFIED |

INTERNAL
: USE-OMLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

(1 CONFIDENTIAL

SUBIECT: (Croll

-C/EUR
4B-4405, 5881

sal

Harold svensoh >

Ro anal a
; L

TO: (Officer deugraton, room sumber, ond’
viking)

Omcers.
WeanAs

an 7

| COMMENTS [Number eoth comment to show from whom
| m2 whom. row @ line across colvmn otter wath comment)

Chief, WH Division

1
Mr. William Broe le

2, 3D-3105

fal A

C/WH Personnel

4

7. Paul:

%

We've discussed this on the
j Phone.

This wound up in my-hands abopt
a month before Mr. Swenson

“ csps
ATTN: Sr. Yockey

retired - much too late to do
}anything about it, It has

3. Room GG-10

1
|
~|[ been brought to C/WH's
|
{
H

attention. Discussions with
WH/EXO led to decision to
take no action, Would you

ate | please forward to Swenson's
official file.
zsaaaed sn fank
I
|
T i
a
: !
ERE TS gE |
een
sa’ TOSSES" (] sec * =] conripenriaL OUR" = O)sUNCLASSiE


¢
MEMCRANDUM FOR: Chicf, WH Division
SUBJECT : 7

Harold Swenson

1. Attached telepouch from Chief of Base, Frankfurt,
recommends Subject be awarded the Intelligence Medal of
Merit or some other appropriate recognition on the occasion
of his retirement, scheduled for 31 May 1968, if

2, European Division endorses this recommendation on
the basis of + - -. | excellent performance in his Euro-
pean assignment bueWefers to you in view of his affiliation

with your division
fohn L, Ha¥t.

Chief,
European Division

Swenson

Attachment:
Telepouch, EGFT-11333



SECKET RYSAT TELEPOSCA

ISP Wo = EFT Utes
FILE NO + NUNE :
wait 2 29 APA Losd
igEX LNG - NONE
mck OF IL + NONE
To : o saves alone sow OT
IFO = CHIEF SF STATION, GERMANY /essmmemm ONLY? Chind
FROM = CHIEF GF Gasé, FRANKFURT 2-77 eye “ON Cd eased
suavect = ADA TS/FE8 SONEL :
7 —« Harold Swenson
act Low > SEE PARA S
ote Gnae + Narold Swenson

*) LT RAVE CAREFULLY

de WITR THE DEPAR
REVIEWED HIS EXTRASRINSSY ACCOMPL ISHMENTS DURING THE PAST Se

MONTHS AS THE SENLIA, ee DURING
eel 7

XR RANOLED

THIS PERIQD HE HAS IN A SucteSSFUL ANG SUPERS NAY
WR PARTICIPATED IW OPERAT LOaS INVOLVING SOME So ASSETS» Mant

OF THEM RESIDENT AGERTS TA PoRUMEN. ALSO 1 AM AWARE THAT You -
ARE INTIMATELY FAMILISS BifR THE EXCELLENCE OF KIS EARLIER BORK.
: HIS ACHIEVENENTS IN RECHUTTMENT AND HANDLING OF AGENTS:

1 ae

EFLECE HIS HIGH PROF: TONAL STAWUARDS, COMPETEACE, veoical low
(aso PERSEVERANCE. 182SE MARK HIM AS A REMARKASLE SENIGA CASE

TAL Tor.

OFFICER WHOSE OULSTANDL¥S PERFORMANCE Men iTs APP.
3. ACCORDINGLY 1 EAadeSTLY NeCumsNu THAY CoadsivedaTlon
ASQAL OF MERIT 98 JTNER APPAOPA LATE

BE GIVEN TO AWARDING
jeter

*UPod KIS REPIREMENT JN SU BAY loose

RECOGHIEION TOe |
Line

qa FALL AGREEMENT WITH THIS RECOMNENIATII Re

Seeger Me Mannan | é

DISTRISUTIIN > BY TELEF IUCR
SOCKET RYSAT eaFT- 21835 “PASE 1


SECKET RYBAT

4° CHIEF, EUR
2° COS, GERMANY
SECRET RYBAT

EGFT- 11335

EGFT 11535

PAGE 2

Page 2.

® © ® 8

8

®

i)


2 Lecenber 1969

Mian t. Tattler
Teparteont of State

Hiviston of uscansing Services
UD Sp sachs

How York City, Yew York 10007

Dear “py Tottlars

The below infortation 1s in response to your ra-ant letter
Swenaon. itr. Swanson was eaploye! ky thie
1955 to May OEP, Aa a neninr ataf? officor
th from Hoadquarters and ovarnaaa, Witla
re spoctfie about his duties hera, thay were such
wo van ordorne him.as.beinn.qualified to-act-th tho:
ofan Invasticator,

Ve cannot.
that wef
sapaatt

pny {Menson'a provious work oxperiance from 1941 to 19h
iy tein te 194? a3 a Spectal Arent with tho FOI, fron Igib to
LOW, Am Ate Conbat Intolligonce with the U.S. “atdnn Corps, and
195) to 1954 ag a Staff Assistant for Security and Pernveeoh
with corks Rovtuck and Company would also appoar to qualify hia?
agian Irveatirator,

iis record with thig Agancy wan constatantly good and tt 1 :
Poning Uat bie applivation ba riven favorable cons tlorn thon,

Yery truly yours,

P.M. Landrum
Personnel Officer

Loe c/aan

f= Merson thle
(2 Dee €9)



EXPERIENCE:

RESUME.

Haroid F. SWENSON
5905 Edgencor lane
Hetheads, Marziond
Tel: OL. 2-Beed

th
U. S. Central Intelasgoure Agency U Stee
1955-1968 7/4 haunb?

Operations Officer, 63-15

Sinve Joiuing CIA in 1958, have boid avaicr level peitions

in the fheid of qgzlectlun, unslyaia ant reperting -f
Syeilalived in Latin Aserisa. crered jaiitical,
eceraumic, miillury anc gougraphis subjects. As cecivr stall
officer, dirssteu tho pregren toth trom Hesdywarters aud widle
overseas ay chief uf u Tieia station. Couducted high level
Vialocu wish other of ficiais the GIA, vtner U.
Agereles ana Forelgu Goverrments. Eytablished re4.irome

- and priorition ou cporations. Responsible fer wien support

functions as personnel, iegivtice, firame end eocurity.
Sebrs, Roebuck and Co.

1953-1955

Hational security director atvi employes relations supervicor.

Gut O11 Corporation
(Mere Grande 021 Company affiliate)
197-1952

Ditision Supervisor of Industrial Relations far Zastern
Verienusla. Reapueible ror Luter reliticus, deccrity,
actident Preventicn, edvvotion and training, wage end salury
administration, govermzen'. relations.

Fecoral Bureau cf Invwotigation

1941-197

Special Agout

Domestic assigntnte in Das Muines, Lam, Masnizgton, D.C.,

Hew Tork City, Sew York, Buvsts, New Jersey, na Yew Brunswick,

New Jerusy. Sportal ewsigrmenty outside the Inited States
tn Mexico ond Argentina, ae



5. Root, Clark, Buckner and Ballastine
1938-1942
New York City low firs,

6. Bakelite Corporation,
Bound Brovk, Now Jersey

1FPA-19HP
Eeployed during college vevations.

MELITARY:

Captain, United States Karine Curp, Reverve, Retired.
Goebst axperisuve in Western Carvlines and Okinawa.

officer in HAG «5 and Torpedo Bombing Syuadron 232.) Stateside poots were.
Quantita, Virginia, Orlarsi3, Florida, San Diego and Santa Harbara, Califcrnia,

(Air combat intelligence

‘BDUCATION:

Hevhattan College, A.B., 1993-1938, (Cleds President, Buiter of Henbatten
Quarterly; Boxing, Dobating, Honor s6ciety pregident, Beta Signa Suciel
Fraternity; avardsd gradiste mholaurehip to Ponihan University a9 cutstanding
groguate of Manhattan in 1938.)

Pordhas Univeraity Sohaol of Law, 1938-192.

Other ecbcola! FBI Asedenys Harino Corps Cffivers' Schuols; Army Air Force
Schcal of Applied Tactics; Induotrisi Relaticns Counselors,

LANGUAGES:
Fiuent Spanish for all purposes. . Adequate French for research and translation,

REFERENCES! :
ALL CIA impiiries sbouid be direoted by letter or telephone tot é

Mr, G. B, Post

Arlington, Virgénia
Telephones 703-351-3295



: “= ty ELA J. MAL
| town cowenzo ~~ plist ae
: ‘SEGRETARY OF STATE 40 ate ee
? WALTER 2, BAKER f ASSISTANT. ORECTOR
i NOTA . FRED E. CAPE

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
STATE OF NEW YORK

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

peas ; : DIVISION OF LICENSING SERVICES
+ 3 270 BROADWAY

. NEW YORK CITY 10007
November 10, 1969

Director of Personnel
Central Intelligence Agency
U. S. Government
washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Sir:

Harold Francis Swenson, formerly residing at 5005 |
Edgemoor Lane, Sethesda, maryland, is presently applying
for a license as a private investigator in the State of
New York. In order to process this aprlication it is
necessary to ascertain if the applicant is qualified to
act in the cpaacity of investigator.

Mr. Swenson has indicated that he nas oten in your
employ for several years, Please advise License
Investigator Allan S. Teitler, Department of State, State
of New York, 270 Broadway, New York, N. Y., as to whatever

information your department may give us regarding the
qualification of itr. Swenson and years of employ.

Your continued cooperation is greatly appreciated.
i Sincerely,

JCHN F. LCMENZO
Secretary of State

By: jhh4 LA

Allan S$. Teitler
License investigator

i
i
1

pr i
Tuadigusaane Sue Orhee Baking 270 Breadmay SOc Norns Place
Alsony 12225 Butta 182 New Vert 10007 Staten sand T0301 Uta 13802
349 crenongo Suet Country Read 201 Braet Set E. we Ottee Building 35 Warburton Avene
11501 FRextwster 14508 pa 13202 Yorkers 16201

Binghamton 13902



SECRET

1M th ited tog

perry

10 JUME 1968

*
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

TSeRIaL Rem [a nae Feta Porta Maddie

016229 -SemISON, HAROLD Fo

a area oo

RETIREMENT “(9oL) ‘UNDER CIA.
RETIREMENT “AND DISASILITY SYSTEM
7] L AUINOMTY (Complornd By Office of

FR > eT Te Tins
: ~ fever nleno 36 2070 | te
i Totanow oF orca at
DDP/EUR FOREIGN FIELD
GESMANY STATION
FRANKFURT BASE
WH AREA REPRESENTATIVES

Wy eosinow Bn

GERAANY
13. CAREER SERVICE OFSCRATON

OPS OFFICER Wi = 0478 D
Ta eassoicanon sentoui (GTA. oe) os SeeovaTvas STS T8GaaBe a ial oriaie
DIOASH

15 6 seaph6y

os aie 036,02

rarerrry
CC PAYROLL
LAD: $B JUNE 1968

3
“ lek ase is ee
fateacdd fe aja, Awe eae

Pp of Bikey .

[oats bono

hfe,

i aay SRE aig eae Tae Be watvat OF canta sence anfaGviNS OTK
ores,
2 Jenfah

wakiron Cc. parton, a a

Spact anow (ELUSIVE USE_OF THE
acon Ts ai ‘ornnt <Ooim6 Rm i onccet[24. woares, ‘Ban OF Ut
aaa wee (008 cont ee eee ae er

Tomine armani]

faa seecias Pag acetate _|* ‘sernaTion [77 comict ha saan [30 sar
beaheen bia} 0D DATA >|
oa. | Lo u to
ia nt ecrerra)
coor) mini coor |

aaa z

« Sia tat oat
MO. ae FatariGea oom CUS &
tm

75, PORTION CONTeON ClEtCATON™

5 TSE use mermous tomon



SECRET : aia

11 bee Pited ta

Ftd Last Fort Medley

SWENSON, HAROLD F_ !

MATA OF PLESGNNEL ACTON

1 Yama 8

EXTENSION OF PRA NTE: o$-HsRGH2970

vioe

FOREIGN FIELD

GEPMANY STATION
FRANKFURT BASE

WH AREA REPRESENTATIVES FRANKFURT, ee
a | Cait HRTCE OEROTON

OPS OFFICER WH (ah) | D ise)
aie sinet ia error anit

0136.01 4s $ [os 20,856

GS

rer

*PRA HR 20-174 1 (D)

a Henao aN one

Ten SSRATUEY OF CARTER SORVICE APPROVING OFFER r perae
Ween,

28

uation Sula
ata cote we

‘cant caicatt esate ceeaett
Teast wat COOH

tr

Sal

Pec a CC

a CI Few Teak
i a

|
a iat ta

i waar [a. x iat
(ot roam earcune cee Ta ipet eoa
pri) 7 iis
oar ac rt ran 2 TE) psy i

f
SAR a sti (WOH an 3 ra

o sotie HITT wD

TE POSTON CONTRO CERTINCATION

TOS TSE vse rarvous toon


MEMORANDUM FOR: Hr. Herold P. Swenson
‘rmoucn 2 Deputy Director for Plons
Chio£, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT 1 Extension of Retirement date

X am pleased to’ (nfora you that on extension of your

ret{roment date until 31 July 1968 hao been approved.

dof BL

{ Robert §. Wattles
|‘Director of Personnel

Approved under authority contained in wemorandum dated
27 Muy 1968, Ret‘rement Extensions, approved by the
Director oa 5 June 1968,

Distribution:

O ~ Addresses

1 - pop

l-wt

1 -_0/Pers

= opr

2- TB (1 w/h)
OP/BSD/TB/MiBeathall:1sh (21 June 1968)

CONFIDENTIAL.

ee See en ee ee


CONFIDENTIAL

29 MAY B69

MBMOBANDUM FUR; Ms, Harcld PF. Seenson

‘THROUGR 2 Depety Director for Plans
Chiaf, Support Steff, SUR Division

BuaIECT 1. Voluntary Retirement Betenaion

Thie ie to advise you that, hased oa a requeat froa

your Division, your voluntary retiresent Jato bes been

changed tu 30 June 1358,

/s/ Robert S Wattles

Robert S. Wattles
Director of 2ecaoncel

Distriburioe:

O = Addressee
1 = pop
1 - cue

1 - p/Pers
A- opF

1 - TB Reader,

1 - 7B Sofe File
OP/BSD/TB/MaBenthall:ish (28 Miy 1963)

CONFIDENTIAL

———



CONFIDENTIAL
Qihen F.lled In)

I hoyeby acknowledge vhai-I have reed and undiystend the contents
of Handvook 20-4, Baployee Conduct, dated 7 Octovc: 963, end che
information brochure for FCS vevurnves, deted Ney 1964.

CONFIDENTIAL
(Wacn Filled Ia)



‘SECRET

ee! ' (hen Filed Tay

CUATH NUMER,

NAME AND ELATIONSHIP.OF SEPEATENT®

Bae OF CUPLOVER (Lent =P

Harold F. Self 68-1037

S Wenson,

‘There is on file in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim

File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an illness,

injury, or death incurred on __1!2 March 1968

This notice should be filed in the empioyee’s Official Personnel Folder

ag a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

we
te etices i >D.:

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE

{iintaioiapaninannnnnnnaninessasassssasaoyy
TEND, 10760 vse reersous coe ae SECRET tanieas



der. Harold &, Swenson
$0u: -dpomoor Lane
Bethesda, Maryland 29014
+ HL :

Doar A Swenson

As you reach the end of your active career
of Government service, I want to join your friends
and colleagues in wishing you continued euceesa
and satie(action in your retirement,

You have every reason to feel great pride
and satisfaction in your sceomplishmonts. Your
record of service is both example sud goal for tha
young people who are sow just beginning thoir
€areors in intelligence. tt

May I extend to you, personally and officially,
voy vincore approciation for the important work yau
have done and my warmest hopes thet you will find
full enjoyment in the yoare abead.

Sincarely,

: [BQ Hictinré dalew ~ *

Elchard Helma pena

Director

re lu ake ca ie th

Distribution: ds? Robert 8.9 a
ae
Originator: a ua i
Director of Pereonael

1 - C/EAB/OS

1- D/Pers

1- OPF Concur:__ SIGHED 8 MAY 1959

Ut RB . C7EAB/OS

1 - RB Reader’

OP/BSD/RB/PJSeidel:jsc (1 May 1968)

wee

Sk ot |

\



|
:
i

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT 4 Request for Voluntary Retirement -

Harold F. Swonson

1. This memorandum submits a recommendation for your approval:
this recommendation is contained tn paragraph 4.

2, Mr, Harold F, Swenson, GS-15, Operations Officer, European
Division, Clandestine Services, hao applied for voluntary retirement under
the provisions of Headquarters Regulation /0-59), to be affective 31 May

1968.

3, Mr. Swenson has been deaignated o perticipant In the CIA Retire-
mont and Disability Syatem and meets the technical requirements for vol-
untary retirerent vader the Syetem. Aa of 31 May 196% he will be 53 years
old and will have over 20 years of Federal Service. This service Includes
over 13 years with
service overseno, The Head of the Clandestine Services Czrcer Service
aad the CIA Retlrement Board have recommended that his applicotion for
voluntary retirement be approved, I endorse these recommendations.

4. It te recommended that you approve the voluntary rotirement of
Mr. Harold F. Swenson under the provisions of Headquarters Regulasion

20-50). ”

Robert S. Wattles
Director of Personnel |

The recommendstion.contained in peragraph 4 is approved. aa
def, Richard Helms 2 FEB SES
—
Date

Director of Central intelitgence

Distribution:
0 + Return to D/Pers
1- Doct

1+ ER

L- D/rere

4 - OP Files : eee . :
7 RB (Lwsheld) os pepynp/piseidel:ias (26 Jan.69) |

ee cP!

the Agency of which more than $ years were In qualifying



CENTRAL REGLON

7 wand Tachi Maldie)

“

SECRET

(0 ba bated nt

LSWENSON, HAROLD F
ACTION

3 CATCORT OF tnrOTMET

ULAR.
B tecat AUIHORY (Completed by Ofhee of
Perseeuel)

1713022020.

pDP/EUR  FOREGIN FIELD

ERMANY STATION

SOURDINATION AND sur BASE, FRANKFURT
u EXCL Of THE CHIE 2 ——————--

Ty ROSCA TNE

10 {GcaTiON OF OFFICAL STATION

TF Pounon NUMBLE

Od.

sEMRA ANY_____...
3° CARLEE SURVICE DESIGNATION

~FRANKEURT.,.

E _ (14).
Ta CLASSICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LAT #0.) fis oceutations

136,01 —_1

et

| 15=S__

|___DD
Ty Saaty OF RATE

$19,978

Rasper HR ik #¥e-G) for one (1) year.
“1-17 De
blotting for new 1/0.

(ane Quist iy. im
ave
‘eae Nest by a EL rsonnel

hard

Tea. SCATURE OF CARLER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER e erry

BOE? MA Oe

MAR 1357

EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OF

WW iciga [30 tarot |
CJ

ples fe

Src timate oan

liao
ps =
L

$y 198115

Ba arena [os
wig 00

tee

os! clGa lg

[coor

[i tone Cow. “ate

ay vit aunt «

Team acon

me et oT

re (oT

Teoor

= tact ms. COOt
ou

oo

ota ta Oat ny

‘att Tar oath

@ atave G,
1008

2 aa Fataonons [rons teecentD feoot Jao isi]satt coor

tens



SECRET
Wea Piited fad

29 Beptender 1966

pasdld FS. wEASON
: eR

MEMORANDUM FOR:
THROUGH : @aief, CSB, Frankfurt

SUBJECP : Notification of Designation as a Participant in the Organization
Retirement and Disability System

REFERENCE : Book Dispatch 5096 dated 12 August 1965

1. You have been found to be qualified as a participant in the Organization Retirement
and Disability Systein'and have been so designated effective 25 September 1966.

2, Although such designation under present statutes is viewed favorably by most persons,
the regulation governing this retirement system gives the individual the right to appeal such
fa determination if he deems the designation adverse to his best interests. In order that this
technical requirement may be satisfied, you are hereby notified of your right to appeal» An~
appeal with reasons: therefore must be received in Headquarters within 60 days of the date of
this memorandum or acceptance of designation will be assumed. Any questions that you may
have in eonnection with your designation that cannot be answered by referring to referenced

Book Dispatch should be forwarded to Headquarters.

3. We beileve that the benefits of the Organization Retirement System are superior to the
benefits of the Civil Service Retirement System. However, there are a few situations in which
an employee at the time of retirement may have so many years of service (almost 37) that he
would receive a higher annuity under the Civil Service System. Because of this, the policy
decision has been made that a participant in the Organization System who would receive a
higher annuity under the Civil Service System may, not later than one year prior to his retire-
ment, apply to be removed from our system ahd transferred to the Civil Service System. Thus,
you should not anticipate tits contingency. as a factor In deciding whether you regard your
designation as a participant adverse to your best interests,

ela Ene

RICHARD B. EGAN

SECRET Sea]
c)



T Sena wowte

016229

yaad (Tanners Medley

SWENGON, HAROLD F.

SECRET

1 hee billed tad

25

a

August 1966

3 NaTaRt OF PLESORKEL BCHION

DESIGNATION AS A PARTICIPANT IN THE

]® caecoay oF eanormine

CIA RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM REGULAR
faa > rs aoe THRRS a [PGS GOWN Hmph Ole oF
crow x [owe 7236-2070 PL 88-643 Sect, 203

7 ORG anzATONAL OISGNALONS

boe/Es

10 iOtANION OF Onhiiat STATON

_FRANKPUR

1 Posmow Te

TF Position mumete [ia cavtte stavce 06

iSGNATION

Ta-CASSINCATION SCHEDULE (G5, FB, ete)

[ve caace

15

TF Oeeurationai Stes,

perrrery

EMPLOYEE WILL RECFIVE NOTIFICATION FROM THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL OF THIS
DESIGNATION AND RIGHT OF APPEAL TO THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE.

TOUESTING OFPCiaL fz ‘soreo Tab Scratunt OF CAREER Stovict aPriOviNG GFnck® —[OAiE SIGMAD
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE US OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNTL ey
stone out of cunt [2 tat or
004 iced err

Ty SeraiaTiON |

{> pata oot

3

1
L
a seert PH var
ne 10

7
“Tons tour wat [an

[> soca sicuate wo

oe far aw
' oe ti

ai

|

Seo memo signed by

Oy Ui | Wiens auted Aue

Lf SECRET

ey

ud
ee)

Toa amacto

i
i
{



S-E-~C-R-E-T-

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WasmInGToN, D.C. 20505

TO : Harold F. Swenson

SUBJECT: TDY in the Dominican Republic

Most of you who went down to the Dominican Republic
departed with so much speed.and so little ceremony that
there was no time to explain the importance and urgency
of your assignments. Now that you have served there
during the crisis, the importance of the task needs no
embellishment from us, but you should know that the con
tribution of the augmented Station was decisive in shaping
the policies and actions of the government and in avoiding
several major mistakes, For weeks after the April revolu-
tion, our Station reporting was literally the only source
of information that the United States had on the role of
Communism among the rebel forces and on conditions outside ~

the capital.

Many fine things were done in the Station and in the
hinterland by all of you, Manning the check-points under
fire, flying to remote and hostile villages, moving tong
of supplies through the gauntlet of the communications

“line, toiling over midnight reports, and keeping open our

country's only commo link -= all these things were common-
place. The dedication, discipline, and routine of our
personnel placed them in a class apart.

To the sense of pride and accomplishment you must
already feel, I want to add the gratitude and admiration

of the DDP and of the Agency.

DAwor dtr aA
Richard Helms :
Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

vol


REQUEST FOR
Z

SECRET 7

1B he titled tat

T

PERSONNEL ACTION

1 Nant (Tat od May

SHENSON, SARCLD OF,

a

3, MATURE OF PEasOrinll ACTION ‘_frectve bane erQuestIe [> Ga1tGORY OF EAROTMENT
21126 2) BEGULAR.

7 COST etntea NO CeaRce
rts

ODP EE FORCIGN FIELD
GERMANY STATION

WAR PLANS BRANCH

COORDINATION §& SUPPORT SASE,

10. LOCATION OF Orvicia STATGH

a

@1359-2070 |.

2 Usat aumosty (Cempleed by Oe @
vee

1 FOuHON Tie.

OPS

13 position mace

3 D

436

“[1S SAGER Stace DESIGNATION

$ 1517)

17 Saat ON eaTe

Oo.

—_—

Ta eps
ETD- 2 July 65
L.cy.-..Security.
' cy-Payroll

one WH
CE OF Tit
D.C,

FROM?

RASH

WH/SA

;
i Hf —
FP" cw a
37 Ke Vf SHEL 2 efit
ana — A i ee ae wins Sweat
Sr ee" ain av
|_| {EE |
Tat arnt foe ai ow aut ow ta ER ean eon] eae Tawa wa
foot ewan ef me pec aera cece
eet
ek Ly
i z ia bi

eWOUS Goveenuc senict aaTe

fev reenows sree
eerie)

=A oe Es ram 2 ease
|[s-astis on Serene tan 9 rat

poererreccy

coo TR

frat con]

ep S2 ust eeevroes roman

wo OF. wirROva,

. SECRET



SECRET

eB he Patel tae :

Washington, 2.0.

Tid Fosinow roman 12 CAREY SEICE OF SIGNATON
@) los | D
4. CUSSIPCATON SMEDME GN TAL vad fs OCU NORA seme f19. GRADE ano STEP p? Sn Seaae

as (a5] 9138.01 25 (4) shite.

ad from the State Derartnent effective CO3 5 vune 1985,

}

an
[exeseno Tat Seanad & cas iit ak

2e-ért Ne

ian

= Renee aay 7 Fou TxcLusive st OF peRTONN,
AS |X ma oa ee Ja sie Ta na
i a ae le

Viol Wome! aban

met fff

WF tao ex La auction
Covi

uo

[yay ce ut [ios Ge on Taam sae emery
is er ee
i ; oe |
7 it I
ny TENDS sctenteT GRE Bata @ untan |e Hoe Tan OAT ie
Tost So RSET Ge ne tinea eae
vested jouw
tla Gee i Me 3 way Ee
[OE 3 See hee i

45 FosTON CONTR Gitincation:

ap TS2 use reruns eran


SECRET

we tillad fae

Pores

Yeo a “REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL. ACTION
“¢_tHRECTIVE Dat RQ
wont “gay wean] ia
cep Ae | ST
Tae 7 Speen wo Grace
cov z lowe
ee of the Chief
iT FeameNe Tages 1 Gnd awe aeioaToN :
STOR (SAS) w
1 GativiciTion semebne TT a? Y i eccaraTSnan Hes
(Oo | 2136.91

rors

PU per Ft 22L(e) (hy

purl S36-

aor foare sopa5 aa. SGnaTuat OF Eaten STAVE A ui
©
ff Cae 7 iay Ak
i “peat ‘BLOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFiCE OF PEAsoNNE | i
io twror. 20, OFFcE copIRG ae sanos a. mca” [x waar. [25 cant of vam [6 THE OF COR YP Bare oF uth
com | cent iene armani | oe a a a

2H3 il oyeeuot |

SCOT 3h aramaion [72, CobRiTON CancHLATION CATE Baoan” [os
ca care Cont Tre we | feoD DATA 7
Lt

a t L
oat [toe am Tne ieee [nena a reecrecenr
ry cee Tansee frost Teenie Yotainm cet
fl ike if H
PREVIOUS GuviLNMENT SERVICE GATE aura [a SADERAL Tax 9478 ia ‘Sua Pat Dat
ae a

coor Tya0 nanos seat

hag aan Stee fan
UT (Stan a

co SEE (a0 TAN YHA

ao

T5152" ust reevovs tomnow SECRET



SECRET

‘4ahen Filled Fad

V JM

WAME,OF EMPLOYEE (Last-Ficot-midd¥e) NAME AND BELATIONSHIP OF SEPENDLMT® CuaiM MUMOER"

Swenson, Barold ¥, Belt 65-362

There is on file in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and
Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim
File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an illness,

injury, or death incurred on _® Septenber 1964,

This notice should be filed in the employee’s Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLA'™ FILE
ate

DATE OF nOFICE

re

ory

$e8 1076 wie recvsovs soutien, SECRET ee tena


SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief. Transactions & Records Branch
Office of Personnel

SUBJECT: State Department Promotion of

SWENSON. Harold

1. The Department bas informed this office that

effective 12 April 1984 _ subject employee was promoted

from FSR-4, $14,035 to FSR-3. $14,265 .
2. It is requestai that this notice be placed in

the official folder of the employee concerned.

{s/ Heary C. Woodeard
o. Chiet, Official Civilian Branch, CCS

SECRET


SECRET

aden Putte rays

prerrersrery

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
4 ebruary_ 196:

(rar (une Fv ei adiey
016229 S| SWENSON, Harold F.

REASSTGNWENT

3 enttaony oF tarcovwent
REQULAR
«ros > ES eee ite lseage tetera letteen ot patemcenpett cle?
er tow Kfersoce | 3132-20008
0 GuganraaT rasan CCHTONATION Te. kocaTean oF
oP
Special Affairs State
FI/CI Branch

LaF ArION

Washington, Deo.
‘ 7 GARTER BERVIEE OC SIGNATION

Vy postriow Tavcr Ve pasitige Nowaee
ATTACHE POL OFF
OPS OFFICER & L078 Doone
Gaye was ate rT R
0136.01 15 (2) 715,045

Ve. CLASSIT 1EATION SEMERLE (GS, UB, efe.) | 13- OCCUPATIONAL SERIES |
FSR

= Ade

Internal Reassignrent from DBP/SAS/Off.Chief, D.C., #0663 “4 /

e fmnay i SE oF Canttw t¢e¥tce APPBOvING [OATE SiGMEO
ez

ar F152.


SECRET a \

~ Petted ty

T NATURE OF PERBONNEL ACTION a COVeeT EVE CATE #EMESTEC] 9. CATCOORY OF EMPLOWWENT

arrears
nase ee . ers

7 ORGAMITATIOWAL DESIGNATIONS

son 1192 sfsiee ee SECREL* ae


Repent pote aren

(pre es oe bt et

© ®


bos oll
fon.


er SECRET

.
~ NOTIFICATION OF. ESTA. sNMERT-OR CANCELLATION
OF OFFICYAL COVER BACKSTOP.

UHIEF; PEXSONNEL OFERATAOS DIVioTOu

L DIVISLOW

ESTADLISIMENT 0 OF OFFIGLAL Cover proc RECORDS

(opnene 10-200.

A. TEMPORARILY FOR pays

EFFECTIVE DATE COB

8. CONTINUING AS OF COB

‘StiaMD TF OFM 642 =FO-CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY
ine 39-7)

Suna Fou 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATIGN CATEGORY:

2 BEING ISSUCO.

Sys cag] RETURN ALL OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION TO CCS.

F OLOcK > FOR ECS INTERNAL USE OMY

90 NOT BRITE IN THI

SunMtT” FOKM 1322, FOR ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS
COVER, (HR- 240-

SUOMIT FoRM 1223 TOR TRANSFERRING COVER
RESPONSIBILITY. (HR- 240-20)

AGE WOSPITALIZATION CARD

coNcUR IN
TSSUANCE

wees WOSPITALIFATIDN CAB

Subject fe to indicate CIA as place of
employment for the entire period of Agency
employment, and not to reveal specific

oriocatiois: of cove® ass iguments.
Be Mos

dae tha we

coleh ore ve rat Coven: CENTmaL cove STAFF

Conse t Searles


OES 194
rere ay a ccatinn ty tints OTE

ieM pape 1StS fio Jan 1955

Tera eicancrestven water

ESS

Lc(Period: res

‘school vt. a

5: Root, Clark, Su
1945-47 Dogs of Sb, WJ, South deeriea “T SpceTes Agee
1944-45. Military S Ace, ozps,. cape + ASS Combat Tatelligcaca: paaenee | :

yea7es2 Nene Geaada O42 Go. cA, Suceecona, Venczucla ~ Div Su ‘of Ind Rel Sor
astern Venezucla

sw G$taff. Assistant for Security and Personnel -

‘

ove

ry
atten Coltegs, NE

ras mow ene
ga Endy Las School

a

ona tng 2939

& Ted aug 1959 |

’

a5 |p | ppp/sux/Cent2e; gfcerSta/idhves

tipement & Disadility System,

Tae,
ate fs, NO

paris 7S Yo.

09 3

Vac iaen Fosoe HY

ae aceon See eee See”


PART 2)

Tivetwsediay

prery
50%, Harold Francia nia

Appreciation 1965 from the DCI for services
Dominican Republic. | -

Gy. oaTe weviteto

22-Aug_ 1968

seeee BISECRET | PROFILE



“ae GATE OF Orntw 2: Sex
FE, : 28 Apr ls) oM
FOF P/E.¥/ 0m OF ALNGHMENT 8. CURRENT STATION

DpP/wH/Cuba | Frankfurt

T eee oF RC PONT

SWENSON,

OrFicias vo:

i
|

ly bese then setistoctory. A vo)

gin this cotecory reavires
u counsel

training. to blacang om
Zain Section Cn °

t0 aig
ion could venge fr

probation, to

As Adeauste Porfarmance meats cil requivements. It
excellence

Perlormence is more thon setisfectory, Desired

joments of the work and in comperiton to the performance of
recognitions

‘work 04 10 worront trae
“SPECIFIC DUTIES, :
ie duties performed duri

forma GAGA spective duty. Consider ONLY aifectivenesn in performan
ias MUST. be rated on thait ability 10 supervise (indicate number of employes

supervisory responsibil
TeECIAIC BUTT NOT

Spotting and recruiting of agents to cover Cuban target

SPECivvG OUTY ROE

“Agent handling

i
: H ;
| brencoanees —— - aa
i Running office at Frankfurt Base = : ea
: ce : '
_— aeeee BOTW RO i aR
' Economic use of funés and equipment : :
i : H
Hnganesutenas 7 : Raa

Tebirie Oury Na ©

offectiveness in his current position such os por
ic dution, productivity, Eanduct on job, esepatativenass, pertinent zersonal traits or h
F employee's overa:! performance during Ane F

ment which mest accurately teflects his level of perlormance,

inflewnces hi



t
{

i During the past year Mr. 3 as continucd to fgultill bis
suzies as the Senior Cuban operations of cr in Europe din a superior
Ranaor. He has shown tixeloss energy in t yolling and working all
possible operational leads; sound and professional judinent an
handling agont contacts and mootings and an enthusiastic is agination
in developing inforsation ‘and access to new potential targets.

. Swenson has peda prowpt and thorough in his response to all
yoquests and reguirencnts frow Headquarters: and prudent in the uso

of Agoncy funds and eg)

The running of his office and tho conduct of his official
business from Frankfurt Base was, describod as follows in @ dispatch
from tho COB datod 1 1967, “It should bo noted that in our
opinion Subject's porformance has been outstanding. Ho handles all
assignments pronptly & in an oxtroenely otficient manner with a
minimum of dotailed guidance from Headquarters

i RVSOR
groan WAT NOT BEEN SHOWN FO
“This report has not boon sown to i, Swenson duc to

CERPUANATION

St nse) aan BEEN
SRS Ga MY SURCRVISION

12 Aue absence from Headquarters
=a 0 ae RD rely “i '
\H/COG. Bay] J. Williamson i
Y REVIEWING OFFICIAL - i
1

% concur.

Tareisian TTKE OF wEVIERING



Spats OF own “3.300,
28 Apr i538 GS-15
Sag eos tin THERE: Ore roi an OF ADEE MENT HCN LNT

Ops Officer

3. TT Reeon TNS

suid, Qacveesaratae’ derert “2... $1 April-1965 - 31 March 1966

pivoateacronv ours
Pepeunsesy

SECTION B Te VALUATION BSSERESTSEEIOE
to slightly loa then satisfactory. A rating in this cotegery 1
ctiem. The aatur ction could range Irom counselicg, to fulther training, to placing on
{ ignment oF to sep jon taken of proposed in Section C.
erkorreance moots all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and 1s cheractorized neither by deficiency nor
Performance is more than satisfactory. Desicad reauits ore being produced in 9 proficient menners
Performance ited by oxcoptional proficioney.
Porlorwance mets of the work and in compor the performance of
others Uving sinulor wark a2 to warrant special recegnit.on.
i a aera sce a
tix of the moat important specifie duties p .g period. Insort rating totter which best deseribos the
Forms GACH specific duty. Consider ONLY ellectivonass,in performance of that duty. All employees
js MUST ba-tared on thew (indicate number of employees supervioedh
[carr
| cerree
Spotting and recruiting of Cuban agents sii
SESE DORW Ra 7 aire
i cerrea
Agent handling i ;
i : ‘ s
PETE OTTERS 7 marine
: Rat
| Running office at Frankfurt Base * = er
[sPacivre aure matt zs wie
| Economic use of funds & equipment :
ree —— Ratini
WECHE GuTY NOS i Carre |
ae i
WEEE DUTT RS : aaTRE
1 Cerren |
! i
i na
[Toke into egeaurt every cetree
‘formance of specitie dtion, = ye €andet on 8. tinea: settonel, tre ond
7 ii se Bened om yout knowie overall perlornance dufing. the rating period,
5ise0 the tater an te vr responding to the acre his level of'pottormonce.



oaensnge, of og eteed Fee. cum eat por steons Anuztiy oF

foture personne? veto, Menwer wf yerformoace

skeen assigned to the F:
since July 195u, °° The rat
in Europe duri $ period and has been in

ide some of his Head uarters-directed
Various countries Europe.
sa, Swenson is a macure, experienced depeadavle officer with a
wide range of expericns He has specialized in i
Cuban operations since iate 1962 and Nis present activities in Europe |
principally concera the spotting and a of Cuban targets,
yeeruitmont pitehes an nning agents. He Iso available to assist
Eusopean stations on Caban matters either at their request or on Head-
:
if

meetings with 3
a position to
operational activit

| quarters dircetion. has done a professional job in every respect
in carrying out his responsibilities, te has been prompt an respond:
| to Headquarters’ requests and requironeats, thorough in carrying out
| Ris assigauonts and clear and accurate da his veporting. His work on
Cuban matters in Hurope has significantly oxtended the Agency's
eoverago of this priority target.

Tho rating given kr, Swonson oa Specific Duty No, 3: (*) of this
report is based on the coments of COB, Frankfurt, contained in
EGOT-29131, a copy of which is attached.

During the period under review Mr. Sweason has shown good
judgment in tho utilization of Agency fundS and oquipment.

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS:

[Section D

M

2.
SSS TEESE Sie rar eees— one CRP CANATION
j shown to Mr. Swenson due

eight
Gate i
22 H
i De/WH/Cuba t
BY 8 OFFICIAL A
BoM ette :
Tconcur is the above rating. Mr. Sw performance
j has been marked by great initiative, 1 sense of ;
devotion to duty whica aas kept hin travel way from {
his family 2 eat deal of the time; and by a nigh degree 1
of profossional competence, ;
i
1
‘ H
: i

fox TaRTSTEC PCE GF BEVIESINE SEFIEIAT IPED OB FR

faith 4

Suomas J.

as

Eixttt
SECRET U



NOTIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENT:
OF OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP

SECRET

3 August 1966

Tavawitsnto FOR

--| SWENSON, Ralph A.

qroros

3804

REF
Form 1322 dated 3 August 1966

atl ane mo.

STTIeTAL COVER BACHSTOR ESTAGLIBKED

feuptovee nO.

o. Tomporarity foe doys, offective

b. Continuing, effective es)

Submit Form 642 to change limitation category:
(un 20-7)

Ascertoin thot Army W-2 being Issued,
X | Keo 20-661-1)
eazngen Sr
pane pas
chant

Submit Form 13: H de ia
Da kiten ser Ete

Submit. Form 13:
(240-250) P

(le
1962-1963 DAC/Haas

Cover History 1963-1966 DAC/Okinawa

sz

Hecting this cover.

pisratpurian: Cory 1-POR. Copy 2-004
Copy 6-008/0PS. Cony



=PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTIONS 222 aNd Zi6 OF PI 900206 AND
EXECUTIVE ORDER 11413 PURSUANT To auTanRity af ret as PROVINED IN THe cha act
OF 1949, AS AMENDED. AND aeacl DIRECTIVE patep & OCTCBER 1962"

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENTS 14 JULY 1968

: 01D new
NAME SERTAL ORGN, FUNDS GASTEP sacany SALARY
€WENSON HAROLD F o1geeg 44600 «CP 15-6 21469 23075



FVos

reoe

Trina wan Fat mT

- SECRET -

29 JUL 68 {We Filled tn)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

O1ee2s SWENSON HAROLD F

T NTO OF ORR ACTON Me
HETEREMENT (VOL) UNVER CIA —- a

RETIREMENT Ado DISALILITY ‘SYSTEM 07 p! 185 REGULAR

: wet > vtov voce ee L. bo-o43
cro crtoct 9136 2070 (KK | SECT 233

F Fncat Anal No Corea [0 CI OF OFT IHGA AUIMONTY

7 GRGARTATONAL SENATORS

CENTRAL REGION
FRAMKFURT BA:

vuP/EUR FOREIGN FIELD
GERMANY Flot
Wh AREA REPRESENTATIVES

18 TOCATION GF OWFiCiat STATON:

IFRANKFURT, GERMANY

OPS OFFICER Whi 0478 bd

TP ROSTION NOMBTE TY HACE BABGRATION

GS

Ta CURSWICATION SEMIOUE IGS. 1B, oh)

TS OCCUPATIONAT SERS | 16 GRADE AND 3i0 Sp Savane G8 BATE

0136.01 15.6 “T 23075

Tikst AME

yr TOTAL SERVICE FOR LEAVE.
Maho date of separation)

Yeo Tanti Ben

i TAND_SICK LEAVE
SUMMARY OF ANNUAL AND tavE

1301 sol
Baar? ——qaea
7 (VOL) mii CIA coo to be sates 1 et. 20241 jC tm
Tt SfSvkh pian nnwol (4008 Bo! sae
L SUMMARY OF HOME, LEAVE SUMAN

(OURS

ver tears poor ended af 13. 4.
Teagan nw nt HT 360 | 1017]\5 cuemonenenet 2/31 — 19 £8 SLRS —

er oa coast
ese wooo Tee ofits
MAX: 360

. teas nena woven L207 to tent qed 6
19 68 112} 56) 0> cars love ved, pee 24 ment a
1. tefot 472 { 1073) tet
a orem ot cae a
| Seen hates eee
alueaee ais [26] borane nme arsnicaeet il z2/ ta
Senew mw on = SCL HSLTUA) — [pS nei td

3078 Va. Daten doing prvceding colander tan

2 Aatory amt
213. bump wom tere dot:

wr 5e30 EGR. 10//E8— -2 700.

TRANSFERRED.

RECORD OF LEAVE DATA

”



) > hzo.ase' o4st0 766 l, 8 $210482 74707268 | wi
CERT ATION AND AUTHENTICATION,

VCURTIFY THAT THE By aes OF THE ieee NAREO EMPLOYEE IS CF ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF dourerence

OE alg, = Ti Med 5

[774 nc excess eworo °
‘ou PAY STATUS AT END OF WARING PERIOD

woe STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

SECRET

neon (Ren Filled fa)

to seeet ote

TRA as OT OT

O16222 pais

‘| VIOCE
in [ewe | :
°
'
i
H
| He
t Tia SEATS
: i ieee

WW CASCATON Emad eS eT DT REGATONA RST Gea NO TP jeaaeeta

tt Heo ean

tian

SPACE SELGW FOR EXCLUBVE USE OF ThE OFFICE O= HERCRNEL

Tih OH TaN ert Ee



gwENsUN HAROLD F 916229, 44 600 CF

PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL 9020226
PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY AF per aS PROvINED IN THE Cla ACT OF 19496
AS AMENDED, AND AeDCI DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTNBER 1962."

EFFECTIVE UATE OF Pay ADJUSTMENT 6 OCTOHER 1967
: 4 ~ OLD. NEW
SERTAL OKGNe flinpS GReSTeP SaLaRY  SacaRY

NAME
Gs 15 5 319-978 $2u0856


ey SECRET ia a

Nbea Filed fat

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

O1G229, ANSON
7 maTunt oF PrBSewar ACTION

75. CaTeGoaY OF KuneTaTNT

KESRAR

SENT
vw [une T Woemat tooo Gapnio [GL GU COME LEAL AUTRE
owe x ewe (7136 2076 coxa] So vse WS ¥
si cai aT aon

aa
FOREIGN FIELD
CENTRAL REGION

GERMAKY STATION
COORTINATION Au SUP BASE, FRANKFURT
CFFICE CF THe CHIEF
Ty pes ONE

RANKFURT, GERMANY
WE POviTION REE 1, Seavey BESeSATION

N73, ce)

oe ane WEP WaT aE

OPS OFFICER

Ta CASS ACATGOm SHEATHS, UE, ete) Tf. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

3s 3e.01 11S 3

LusIve USE OF ‘OF PERSONNEL
TAT, Ensen | OFFICE CODING FE sation Tia Tested |. waa BATE OF HTRTH[s, DATE CF SHE
O0E Wise’ reer oe | Re pt eee 7 | 7
.37_ Lic 4y600 |EuR 127015. : 2 tot
Sitting a eto Rein oan seem [ar Cetera cancuiT B wat ie ie
rrr) nententt ae Teaoe | Oa COE Fire ry #0 10,
03106 163 | 82 i ul

Tw Ste, Cour Tat own oie Dae area |

eee

saveanaT SEUTCE

i 7
Teta ar a Feoekat Tan cae
CORE =

ron Use Provious
sae 180 ‘edition


SECRET a8
ee (When Filed ta) |

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Tan (ST AEST RTH,

Teas won

110225 SWENSON HAROLD _F

D.aTvRe OF PEROaREC aCtoOM
DESIGNATION AS PARTICIPANT IN CIA a
RETIREMENT ANO DISABILITY SYSTEM REGULAR

Tecan [0 COR OTHCA UEAL AUTHORITY

it > vor voe
bsdeaaild § Ses bated 171368 2070 CON | FL 86-643 SECT. &

1, Wocation OF OFFICAL. STATION

5 aitcoav oF carioracaT

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

1a, PORTGN WoAEE Th SUAVICE BUSTONATION

position Tifa

Ta GAGE no STEP

Ta CasRTICATION SCHEDOLE (, UB, we) WE OCCUPATIONAL StAI0S

15.
cry eeATEUARTTIE — —
EMPLOYEE WILL RECEIVE NOTIFICATION FROM THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL
GF THIS DESIGNATION AND RIGHT, OF APPEAL TO THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE.

Ma
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF OF PERSONNEL,
Hoe taper TET inion. witaate Ye wa one OTE
oe Serr on =p :
‘ za (Weazedl govses Postel
RCO CT CMT FA Cone CTign GancEU TATION DAT Tae ante eT
mers MELA sar CON eg = j tae |
I Hi) 2 to | L
TRCN Tar BT TT aa TET ato |THE EC TT
i at Be foe wee [EP] on PTE Ta 7] sa
be et Leow tw t
a rina taneniain Seana oa pee oT Tecan Ta
cooe O80 PREVIOUS EARLIER or Ned, OORT
| 0
i

rors
nar 88


*PaY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE “ITH SaLAHY SCHEDULES OF. PL 899504
PURSUAKT TG AUTHORITY OF DCT AS PROVIDED IN THE Cla ACT OF 1949,
AS AMENDEDs AND A*DCI DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962,"

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT? 3 JULY 1966

oud NEW
NAME SERTAL ORGN, FUNDS GReSTEP | SALARY SALARY.

SWENSON HARCLD F 016229 44 580 CF GS 15 5 $19,415 $19,978


1. SLUT ROSE

16229

ma (ast FAT WTB)

SWENSON HAROLD F

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

TwaUHe OF PERSONAL ACTION

FEM 7 Catigoer oF tnriovntaT
lo? 1021651 REGULAR

FCAT CHNTCa wo, HAGEL

61392070 0001

7 Gt on TWEE ACEAL AOTRORTT

50 USC _4O3_J

ERMANY STATION
COORDINATION & SUPPORT GASE, FRANKFURT
IAR_PLANS BRANCH

TH UOcaTiGN OF OHFICIAN STATION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

Ti, PonTION HAE

Te PoniTiow WWE

Ta HaMiGE OLsToMATIOR

Frasnemnn

OPS OFFICER 3436 0
TC TaN FTE TER, wd i COOLS aa TE “Tina oa
Gs 0136.01 HS 4. | 18170

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

i

TH ACTION TD, Coplay | Be OFFICE CODING 2, STATO [AR TESHEE [HO Hag [38 OATE OF tat] ‘ATE OF Gunde | a7. GATE OF LED
(ane | Cote | aawene ——acrenveric | (OPE one ee wa] ee

¥e 10. 4us3o| CE 27015} 3 lou L265 {4

TATE Gavines fw apeciat |G. _eeTaatwewt oaTa ‘(SEPARATION | 32 COnRECTION/ CANCELLATION BATA Pre

wee ee] ERENCE Fee co dae CODE Fire 1* rar) 40, wo

i
 SOCIAT SECURITY a.

TH ven, PaCTE NCE

Ta Stav. COMP, OATE [a7 1ONG. COMP OATE | TH CANTER

Tee wm

peers area

oo ue

Use Previous
Edition



SRR OME

o36a29

7 nan (AST RDO

SWENSON WAROLO F.

oa SECRET
(When Filled snp

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

TART OF PGI ACTON

REASSIGNMENT

CR
a

T GiLGORT OF PaROTatNT

or

¥
«FUNDS:
a

ov

ov! og 6
[ aE) [7 eran

ewe 7136 2070 9000)

7G OF ON TCA ATOR

V CRCRTTON DOCRATOR

BDPdBE DiVEstON

0 LOcaion OF OVnKiA Fiaion

* PRANKFURT,

GERMANY

TTR
ops oFPpaeR

15 CARTE SERVI DEICRATION

Te CASSATON SOD TET. oe
6s

OT wT
3436

WR TROT
836,02 43

TT aT OF aT

S;GHATURE_OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

Foem | 11508
1d MFG. 64s

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

(en Filled ta)

ea

oy

ee

ee


Pp Pues Y SCeenuLes OF
PAY A \
pursuant TC AUTHORITY OF fT
BS APEANED, ANE AeDCL enuley om
EFFECTIVE DATE CF Pay s0ULSTMENTE to Onteuss 1905

CH ES PROVIDE

sective TATED & voTUSES 19420"

: PL 292822
STREAT Th arcnanance sis sayaay SemErNees OF OL oe yg,

uLo NEW
oe aH SERIAL OFGN. FUNDS GeesTee S0LARY SALARY
qisvze 48 San oF GS 15 4 SiMet7 $160825

SENSO HARCLE F

ved

44 940 cam

eer ae sauay — NEW SALARY RATE

Toone Bow

i. or wt, Cole ‘Se [Serr
16+3?5] 04712764 pal eve DAALIZO0

7 72 NO EXCESS LWOP
/ Vo IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD
/ / LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD
CLERKS INITIALS AUDITED BY
o ° em

| CERTIFY THAT. THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOY: fa
OF AN ACCEPTAQLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATURE: KE idol tt i a 4 oo 7
CHANG! NGE NOTIFICATION a oy

Tay S60E ha 308



heal SECRET

PJH: 22 JUN 65

2 wae (CAST TAT MTHOTED

Deer)

16229 | SWENSON HAROLO F

(When Faled tn)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

coB

WAAR OF PresOHONEL ACTICR
CONVERSION FROM FSR STATUS

Ta
96 05,65 REGULAR

1 CaiGORY OF EMPiOTTAT

. > vo. Lie
© rons
ane xX [awe

7 COW CENTER WO. GHANGEARLE) 0. GC 08 OTNTE TEGAT AUTRONTTY

5135 1162 QAMA | SO USC 4O3 J

7 ORGANTATIONAT OUMIGRATIONS

OOP/AWH _WH/C
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

8 WoCatiON OF OFFICAL STATION

WASH., 0.C.

We. PontiON TINE TE Posto KONE [ih SeaviCe osicnation
OPS OFFICER SAS 1108 0

Ve GLaIRICATION SOMTODIE FEF, UH, wp 15. OCCUPATIONAL Sexes [Ta CRUDE ano SitP [7 satan oF mane
Gs 0136.01 15 4 | 18170

pal in se 0.C.

erry

‘SPACE BLLOW FOR FXCLUSIVE USE OF THE

Ry a DC TT
(00 | ete Nose arenaniie] CODE

56 10 31560 | Bail 75013 i

, WieeREE | tu Ragin,
coe Gots

F Gabe | aT OF TET
| cise)

fo 28,15]

1 seeonity |e 36

Ho 0.

woo a] REFERENCE ove mara COE ase

=| eee mu con)

HAT TREFENCE | MSR Gah GATE [37 TONG" Ga bate [Gann _ticonr fn” a7 wea Tne | © soca SecuaitY wo

f t

0 Retvious covennmeaT seavia tara awe aay us

iorat at ore

i

{ oe

ices Wate 1 pata
ne TTT

row
nex USO Edition



A aaa!

Py: 24 MAY 65

OOF

SECRET
Wher,

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Fuad ts’

TStaUar SUMTER F mae (UASEATOST NIOOUEY

| 16229 | SWENSON HAROLD F

1 MATURE OF PARSORRLL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

[BPHECTIVE GATE | 5. CATEGORY OF ChrLOWENT
05 ; 26)65 REGULAR

[awe

+ ramp |

X [owe

EH NO GUARGEANT [6 GC O8 OTHCH LECAL AUNOEITT

5a USC 403 J

5135 1162 an00

ORGANIZATIONAL OLSrENATiOHS

Ta Cocarion oF OFFICIAL STATION

OOP/AWH —WH/SA
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF WASH., D.C.
ci Fin an eT
POL ATTACHE
OPS OFFICER SAS 108 D
oT Tat TERT TASH
aie. 15 4 18170
SORE LOW Fea ICT OP OT Or
TAG taper [RTE a 1 SATION | He WTEGLEE [FO nop [1 OATE OF HATH [tu eai€ OF CHE] GHTE OF AH
cn ete” Saree arene] fOPE cone Oe a Te
37_|10 [siosapn fasoia} 1h 28,05) |
a RC aT “rae biome
051 2566 | 84 irae =a |

BE VEN pueveneuce | ue HEAV COUP. GATE | 17 LONG. COMP. OATE | U0 CnTER CATTROWT

FECL WEALTH URINE [7 Soca SecuniTY wo,

iB lot

om atee

‘Eas waar a COE |

atari ota
cont

STATE Tea ate

ve

rom
raz 180

Use Previous
Eaition



ADJUSTMENT OF SALARY RATE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
SCHEDULES OF THE GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES.SALARY REFORM
ACT OF 1964 PURSUANT TO THE AUTHORITY OF THE DIRECTOR
OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AS PROVIDED IN THE CENTRAL
“INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND POLICY.
DIRECTIVE ISSUED BY THE ACTING DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962.

SALARY CONVERTED TO RATE SHOWN FOR INDIVIDUAL'S GRADE
AND STEP AS INDICATED IN CHART BELOW.

GENERAL SCHEDULE RATES
Federal Employees Salary Act of 1964

Per Annum Rates and Steps

ona | TT

3

4

5 | 6 | 7 7 8 {| 9 f 10

4,005
4,480
5,000]
5,505}
6,050
6,630|
7,220,
7,900
8,650)

10,250}10,605/10,
}12,075/12,495 /12,915/13,335,
14,170] 14,660/15,150/15,640}
16,460|17,030/17,600|18,270
18,935] 19,590/20,245]20,900
21,445 /22,195 /22,945/23,695

24,500,

GS= 1/53,385)§3,
GS-2) 3.680)"3

5
805
140)
4,630)
5,165
5,690
6,250}
6,850)
7,465

8,170)

8,945)

100/$3,
3,

4,275)
4,780
5,330
5,875
6,450
7,070)
1,710)
8,440
9,

615]$3,730
930] 4.055

240} 9,535
,960)11,315

$3,845 |$3,960|$4,075|$4,190|$4,305/$4,420
5 4,305| 4,430] 4,555] 4,680] 4,805
4,545] 4,680] 4,515} 4,950) 5,085] 5,220
5,230) 5,380) 5,539] 5,680] 5,830
5,825] 5,990) 6,259) 6,320] 6,485
6,430] .6,315! 6,800] 6,985] 7,170
7,050] 7,250| 7,450] 7,650] 7,850
7,730] 7,950] 8,170] 8,390] 8,610
8,445] 8,690] 8,935] 9,180] 9.425
9,250] 9,520] 9,790) 10,060/10,330
9,830} 10,125}10,420/10,715/11,010) 11,305
11,670) 12,025/12,380/12,735|13,090/13,445
13,755/14,175/14,595|15,015]15,425]15,855
16,130/16,620/17,110|17,600|18,090/ 18,580
18,740/19,310 ee }21,020}21,590

21,555 ]22,210/22,865/23,520/24,175



iS SSSUCUSE See eteeseseesesesee ee)

DOD o7/osso8

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Tsar eae

16229

|

Tae OSs AT

SsENSOV NAROLD F

T Rate OF ARIA TON

7 GRO OF NROMMENT

REASSIGNMENT
: aa THORN CRT :
Ly 4132 locu 1000
ERENT
C.1 STABF i WASHes De Co
- |
i :
T FORGE og TRE TT BEST
SPS OFFICER cn [" vsaz D
i
TROT SE TOT RS STF Ta OT
as 0236608 25

Th aS

TieNATURe Oe OnE I ENTCATION z

Form 11508

Ve MEG. 18

a
Whe Panvious :
Sten



1 Set me 2 Ce Gow oe

016229 | SWENSON HAROLD F | 49 300 I,

hlw SAtaky HATE
Qiode [30] Setry | thectne Dawe

i oo maa tae 0
wT eer

om [te en oo

G8 19 3

: i
$16,694 04/14/69 GS 19 4 bea 04/42/64

T Remo ond Aatrtconon 7 FF

Us
‘
‘

° ‘9
I_CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EN
OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE,

Siomtuaens * mer o? paATE
Fo B-8. o>
AY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

Form
ver 560

N ACCORDANCE WITH THE PANVES
MEMORANDUM DATED 1 AUGUST 19563

4-NO EXCESS LwOP

7 IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

/ LWOP STATUS AT -END OF WAITENG PERIOD
CLERKS INITIALS

‘Edinee

EFFECTIVE 5 JANUARY 1964,

NAME

SWENSON WAROLD 'F

SERIAL ORQN FUNDS GR=ST

AUDITED BY 3

Ovo
SALARY

en

ONS OF PUBLIC Law 67°793 an? OCT
gaLaay 1S ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWSs

New
SALARY

016229 49 300 CF GS 38 3 $157525 $162605


dae

| 016229.

BAB: 13 FEB 63

Peas (asTsnesT aoe)

| gWENSON HAROLO F

avon OF PRR ATI

REASSIGNMENT

Tstuat ROME

7 aTEeonT OF EunLOTataT

REGULAR

= anor

3132 1000 1000

FG Ov oTnte teen TOTTTTT

50 USC 403 J

=

7 acAMiTATIONAL BESAATIONS

oP :
SPECIAL AFFAIRS STAFF
F1 Ci BRANCH

7 1a WocaTvOw OF OFFICIAL STATION

'WASH., 0. C.-

Ti Ponirien TE
ATTACHE POL OFF

Troon MNT

7TH CHAUE SeUviCE eBRATIOR

OPS OFFICER (0678 o
TTT RTT Sw) HT TT Tania ae
FSR ou O 13340
15.2. 15045

a GS. .0.136.O4-.

Ti. teins

WASHINGTON, 0. C.

“SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSINE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

AoE | CE GE TE oe mgt [wee [TCO Nie HT
eal Riera ee — ot de rT)
37 |10 161300 SAS__|75013! 1 i
Fare Gants EY CTTRCMNT DAT 1 Strano aN saTiow = peaom) ie aay L we
a teeta bcs are
vo | | "y cE
DS. VET, PREFEREWCE 3h SEEW. COMP, i. i ea INSURANCE 7 a SOCIAL SECURITY WO.

Ti Paivionk sceeRNaET SERVICE DATE

Fioeea Tar OAT

i=

ee

vs


Te set me]? None _ hot Cone Rone
016229 | SWENSON HAROLD F | 61 woz pcr
sta issaaas
oro Saar bate fe. haw Sain oan [7 Ra chow
‘Grode [Se [Seton tot tH Oo [Grose [sep [Soto [tree oom | rape |

G8 15 @ 19/045) 04718707] Gs 49) 3 ied oassarey| |
|

Romer ond Autaoanraes Doc

4 7-NO EXCESS LwoP
4 7 AN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

4 - / LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PEKTOD Ife bf,
CLERKS INITIALS AUDITED BY LU Yul 4

i eels y-
T_CEATSFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPL fEE

OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE,

SIGNATURE nario LE, Re cE aad :

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

beet nae wan

WY FCCORD RCE wITH THE PROVI LICH 793 AND
Benn DaTS 1 2£UGJ8T EO aS FOLLOVS,

& 1942

*S Me Pualic Lar
56 4 SALATY 1S ad

NATE SESpalL CR GN

SY4O52 tr 2 trangs

SeENSO’ maARCLD F 318229. £2459 crs 2


BAB; 31 OCT 62

SECRET
(Whea Filled ta)

ut

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Tat aE) Eat STRSTR

016229 __| SWENSON HAROLD F

ead

TaaTeAE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

xX [ewe

7 RCANTATIONAL DEERATIONT

DOP/TASK FORCE W

Ts ane

io 1 31;62

OF tanioranet

REGULAR

Tost ait wo Gea

1. COCaTION OF OmPICINL STATICS

EGC Oa aie sTRORTTY

3132 1000 joa 50 USC 403 J

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF IWASH., D.C.
TV peste TRE | 1 Position MuMeeR 1) CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
ATTACHE POL OFF |
OPS OFF ‘CER O CH 0663 | o
TET THERE TH oT Ti acorn TS RC TEP Tay ae
ESR we lou" 13508
0136.01 15.2 15085
iT tNA
«
=sse = aaa eS
SEAGE BELOW TOW EXCLURIVE UGE OF TIE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
TART fase [ERCP Hoe, TEAC |e Rope [TOUTE OF vate TS BAT CU] TT
oll Mined [sae oor] ee een i rr ~~
37110 |6itoojrew 75013; 1 > fr fou; 2818)
TUTE |. fda pA uta aT a RATT TATION wa wan Fea
Cerrar aureacett Fy Taxa ber ay romarrs Labatuat Py
it | 60 | | 1
BHT AUCME | Se Gar BATE [oe CAP OO | Ge GNoNT feat &. Soin SeeUTTY wo:
ar ie Cicetal a
ai PREVIOUS GOVERMENT SEATICE BTU r FEDERAL TAR BATA TAR OATA
com CRD Veser leg co

[

Uso Previoas

: SECRET
i tee” Bat Mt /9/bp-

48" 50



A
f
4

PeaRHBeAntENHosinN cnASeAARRAnarAABAAOARGARE AG! “CARERASHPARTARRE ERT


SECRET ae

(then Fitted top

UMPLOWER SURIAL NUMBER

016229 ———

FITNESS REPOPT

SECTION A “GENERAL

7 vaiaisranaan " Ja. pave or einen |: Se
28 Apr 15
%

PORTING PERIOD (Fram tor)

o April 1966 - 31 March 1967
“PERFORMANCE EVALUATION. .
from wholly inadequate to slightly le: A rating in this cotegory requires:
‘ction. The Aah section could het training, to plocing on
tigament of to seporation. Describe action token or proposed in Section Ce

Performance te more than sotisloctory. Desired results are being produced in @ proficient manner.

Perlormance is characterized by exceptional profictoncys
's of the work and in comparison to the performence af
-ognition.

Jormance is ¢o axcepti

ing letter which beat describes the
f

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. T

Spotting and recruiting of agents to cover Cuban target

SPECIFIC DUTY nC. a

Agent handling

SPECIE Bare NOD Scr = TaarS

Running office at Frankfurt Base

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.

Economic uso of funds and equipment

aeecinic Gute Noe ae

ak “gpl 4,

Toke into secount ever
formance of specific,

: |

a 7 i
peravietarizi of 7 THATS

i

ae

‘during the rating perlod,
is level of performonce-

ws" 45, SE PREVIOUS Corrions.



SECRET, Sane
NARRATIVE

gu demonstrated tn erent positon Kroping 9 Pape" BeInpPGp TN
aiming, Comme

6 pene a
mest teuned for conan pounions bowel we cooled os ANSE Ee Ee grains: Come

a
During tho past year Mr. Swonson has continued to fulfill his”
dutios as. the Senior Cuban operations officer in Europe in a superior
-manner’,  He-has shown tireless cnergy in travelling and working all
possible operational leads; sound and professional judgment in
handling agent contacts and mootings and an enthusiastic imagination
in doveloping information and accoss to new potential targets,
Mr, Swenson has been -prompt and thorough in his response to all
roquosts and requirements from Hoddquarters and prudont in the use
of Agoncy funds and equipment. . :

“ The running of his office and the conduct of his official
business from Frankfurt Base was describod as follows in a dispatch
from the COB dated 6 March.1967, "It should be noted that in our
opinion Subject's performance has beon outstanding, He handles all
assignments ‘promptly and in an oxtromoly efficient manner with a
minimum of detailed guidance from Headquarters."

CERTIFICATION AND.COMMENTS
EMPLOYEE _

CERTIFY, EE)
PRenirone SF EmPcovee

BY SUPERVISOR an iz
THIS HEPONT WAS NOT BEM sHowN TO EUPLOVEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

is report has not boon shown to Mr, Swenson due to
his absence from Headquarters :

ICIAL FiTLE Or SUPEAViGOR

i ae
f hte ck bdo
Ea) + Williamson

1 concur.



& pe

4 SECRET

tunes Felted tnd

a

FRPLOVEE SERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS REPORT
SECTION A GENERAL

AME iaab Tea Giiaaioy Ya. ont
SWENSON, Harold 28 Apr 15 | H

Ta FiciaL Panton THRE 1 OF owas oF assiciENT
Ops Officer | DDP/WH/Cuba

Hemecn ii T¥Pe oF aPrOMTRENT
jeaneen

[BPeciac (Specify:
We. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P, i

Liye (G66 4 1 April 1965 - 31 March 1966
(PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

ing In this category requires.
ling, to further maining, to plecing on
taken of proposed In See!

{factory ond is characterized neither by delicloney nor

Performonce 12 more than satisfactory. Desired results ore being produced in a proficient manner.

Performonce is cheracterized by exceptional proficiency.
quiraments of the work end.in comparison to the performance of

ince 48 30 exceptional in

Insert rating letter which boat describe
formance of thet dut
of employees wpe

SPECIFE DUTY NOT

Spotting and recruiting of Cuban agents

SPECIFIC OUTY NOE ii
“ | Cérvree

Agent handling

SPECIE BUTT NO?

Running office at Frankfurt Base * 7

|
a sa ———1 atin
i

Fig OUTY NO. 4 Rati
SPECIFIG DUTY NO. fans

Economic use of funds & equipment 7

PECIFIC OUTY NO. serarresrse TRATINa
[iaieeusteteaskbatiecaay j corres

BBECiPIE DUTY NO. © 7 a
ita ferren

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Hlectiveness in his current position such as per

siccunt sverything chou? the emplayes which influanc

of apecific duties, producti 0 jobs cooperat personal traits or hobits, and
Wetions of talents Based on your {nowledge’ of emolayee's overall performonce during. the rat

[place the letter in the ae nee sponding to the statement which moss accurately reflects his level of performance.

SECRET

Use PREVIdUE EorTIONS,



‘ SEF ICE OP poe .
. EES yye

SECTION C

Incas wignican avengiha or seoknesses denon svared in corent postion Alpin open erecce ee

re vorwain
Sisigntngeogcpaputente if egied Ut cove postion. Aus or vpn rave ae eon 8
Ware berteonal acne Manet pitrmsnce si tancqeel er mpcsruery due sod com egneieutnes®

sonnel, apace, equine eI Able the
taste chest of goper sell ables Sir

Mr, Swenson has been assigned to the-Frankfurt Base as a senior
Quban operations officer since July 1965. The rater has had two brief

“gieetings with Mr. Swenson in Buropé during this period and has been in
a position to monitor and guide some of his Headquarters-directed
Operational activities in various countries in Europe.

Mr. Swenson is a mature, experienced dependable officer with a
wide range of experience in intelligence work. He has specialized in
Cuban operations since late 1962 and his present activities in Europe
principally concern the spotting and assessment, of Cuban targets,
recruitment pitches and running agents. He is also available to assist
European stations on Cuban matters either at their request or on Head-
quarters direction. He has done a professional job in every respect
in carrying out his responsibilities, He has been prompt in responding

| to Headquarters’ requests and requirements, thorough in carrying out

-his assignments and clear and accurate in bis reporting. His work on
Cuban matters in Europe has significantly extended the Agency's
coverage of this priority target.

: The rating given Mr. Swenson on Specific Duty No. 3 (*) of this
report is based on the comments of COB, Frankfurt, contained in
BGOT-29131, a copy of which is attached.

During the period under review Mr. Swenson has shown good
judgment. in-the utilization of Agency funds and equipment.

SECTION D

is needed to Complore

ond funds, mutt be comment

on niin ~ Jey SUPERVISOR
MONTHS EMPLOVEE WAS BEEN ]i# THIS REPORT NAS WOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
UNGER MY SUPERVISION | a

i ; This report has not been sliown to Mr. Swenson due

|_to his absence from Headquarters x

ar FieIAT HELE OF SUMERVIBOR ae bay avei it Asis Vigna TOW
é Led £4 Cle
22 AUG 1966 | pe/mi/cuba | “h, 3 EA tatson” ©

SERVE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

BR Statte na
1 concur in the above rating. Mr. Swenson's performance

has been marked by great initiative, a very real sense of
devotion to duty which has kept him.traveling away from
his family a great deal of the time; and by a high degree
of professional competence.

’ SECRET = * 3


7 de intended

REPORT OF HONCOMPLETION OF TRAINING 7 ‘an original

Wie OF ST UREN

Swenson, Harold Fe
TITLE OF CoUmeT IW wmvcw STUDENT wat ERAGLLED
“French Inter. - RSW 04/26/65 - 06/30/65

EASON STUDENT OVD KOT COMPLETE COUNT

Withdrew: 05/15/65.

REMARKS

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF TRAINING

W. RAY RACKEE

Ue hag tak!

rome eas)

ros 2019


SECRET Sei
anor Filled fo)
fewPLOVEE SERIAL NUMBER

016229
SECTION A. -
1s NAME Teed SO" DATE OF Tyicantee ps 30
ae SWENSON, Harold F. 23 1GS-15 | D
je. CURRENT STATION

Wor ricing POSITION T :
P/ shington D.C.

-— feinenment atom
inentuignwenT EOLOVEE

[eeuciac (erection —
i REFOMTING PERIOD (From “Oo

; 22 December G4 - 31 March 1965

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION sapsaaa

Tram wholly Inedequute to slightly les than satisfactory, A rorts
2 or oN Y arure of tne action could range from counseling, to further taining,
cron ne to neporation. Describe action token or proposed in Section C.
factory ond Ia chorocterlzed nalthor by defictency nor

Probotion, 0 10
Performance meets all requirements. It 1s entirely satis

“P+ Proficient fan sottsfactory. Desired results ore being produced In @ proficient eanner,
S- Seng Performonce Is choractarlred by exceptional proficiency.
O = gutstanding’ Performance 1s so exceptional in relation to reauiromanrs of the work ond in comperlaon to the performance of
7 28 there doing similar work ex to worrant special recognition,
SPECIFIC DUTIES ~
‘fic dutles portermed suring the rating pa

EXCH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectivenees in performen
(UST be rated on their ability to sur tinal

Supervision of the WH/Cuba/CI Staff.

Speci OUT HOT
providing specialized counterintelligence planning,

guidance, and support for WH/Cuba and other clandestine

services components.
seEaPig DUTY NOS nave
fetten

spotting, recruiting and handling Cuban agents.

wy

Economic use of funds, equipment and personnel.

ie OUT NO. >
Cerren

—__1—

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

ployee which Influences his effectivensss In his currant position, such 2 pare

Yate inte ci tpocific Gutles, productivity, ‘eondyct on job, coopers pertinent personal. traits ov habits, and
AEMERES Hinitorions oF talents. Based on yout knowledge of weerall portormonce, during the rating period| — §
ate oe yoo the setecent which most cccurately rellacts his level of performance, s

Tlace the letter in tee
13 ape Aw |

TEP” 4S covoce rs pnevious eoirions. SECRET ==

Rating
Cevrer

Take into occount everything obout the:



Until the last few days of the period covers, TH the rating, Mr.
Swenson performed the duties of CI-Staff Chief for fiZeuba. This
staff has since been combined with another branch and part of its
functions transferred to JMWAVE ‘as part of a plan worked out by Mr.
Swenson and Chicf, JMWAVE. This ‘consolidation program has resulted
in a significant saving in manpower without loss of operational
efficiency. Mr. Swenson's performance in his new duties as “Special
Aasistant to the Deputy Chief; WH for Cuba, for planning has just
begun and it is not possible to rate him on these. Mr. Swenson's
performance ‘as Supervisor of the CI Staff continued to be marked by
high ability and aggressiveness throughout the poriod. He is an
effective leader who obtains’ good work from his personnel, His unit
-was marked by'a high morale and good organization. During this period
Mr, Swenson has personally directed and participated in the remotiva-
tion of a previously disappointing CI assct who was also trained and
dispatched into'Cuba, This agent began communicating shortly after
his return to Cuba indicating the success of the operation. Mr.
Swenson has also been personally responsible for a varicty of other
operational activities including the preparation of a "white book"

concernitig Cuban intelligence and subversive activities in Latin
Mr.

America which is being made available to various governments,
Swenson carricd out a number of bricfings of high level foreign
officials concerning these matters in a highly effective manner,

...continued...
SECTION D CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS:
E 2 eB YEE isieiaais
iS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

ATE SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE.
pete gery

BY SUPERVISOR
SNOT GEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

WONTHS EMPLOVER GAs BEEN Ti Tnia wie
UREA Gutenvinon One pe THRE

r Rae a ATR
1 April 1965 WH/C/COPS ~Fnomas J. Flores’
arts i oe BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

MENTS GF REVIEWING OFriciAt” “Mr, Swenson does indéed ‘need to hide his océasional|
“impatience with lesser mortals", as suggested by the rater. That we
have confidence in his tact as well as in his professionalism is,
however, indicated by his pending assignment to an important job in
Europe where his success will depend in part on maintenance of good
relations with personne] of the various European Stations. I fully
concur with the high ratings given in this report,which are well

served. E

orviciac TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

idee
Pilani
DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL nel npn be maT ORE
5 April 1965 DCWHD/C i John L. we aes

SECRET ¥


SECRET
SECTION C (continued)

His aggressive spirit and impatience with lesser mortals are
sometimes disconcerting, but the Agency would bo better off with
more people of Mr. Swenson's undeniable capacity in the substantive
and managerial fields.

SECRET


wy SECRET ra

(hen Fitted Ta),

TurcoveT vomiat aw
FITNESS REPORT 016229
GENERAL __

rd iddie)

SWENSON, Harold F.

& OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Rca ssrenuamee
lag asvionueny euMPcOvER

WEPOR TING PERIOD (From tod

1 April 64 - 21 December 64

‘slightly tes: cg A raning in thie ory requires
ing, to further 1 placing on
ed In Section C.
nolther by deficloncy nor

Trom wholly Inodequat
fons The nature of the action could renge

lta are being produced in a proficlent manor.

sisfactory. Desired 1
Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency,

Performance Is 40 oxceptional ia re 4 of the work ond in cor
Ethers daing.similor work ax 10 worrent speclol recognitions

which bost-doseribos the

ot duty. All employoos
yuporviead).

warn

Cetra

seeciri€ DUTY NO.

Responsible for supervising the WH/SA/CI Staff.

To Ravine
Cetren

SPECIFIC DUTY NO?

Provides Specialized counterintelligence planning, guidance, and/or
ort for WH/SA and for other Clandestine Services components:

Ca

recruits, and/or handles Cuban agents.

eatin |
terven

mployee which influences
‘conduct on jeb, coopers?
your knowledge of employ:
1g 10 the statement which

[QE 45 onsocers pacwious eottrons., SECRET


Ri
Chen Fitted ta)
NARRATIVE COMMENTS:
ths of wechnosses demonstrated in current position k
Auggeattons made for improvement of work performance,

SMioreige lenguoge competence, IF requited for current positions Amplity or.explal
1 Tx determining (ure pertonnel actlon. “Honner et-perfermance of menagerisl

bla.

SECTION C

in Froper perspective the
mendations for 1

During mach of the reporting period, Mr. Swenson has been on
TDY overseas attempting to recruit members of the Cubam :Intelligence
Service, In these ondeavors he has had noteworthy success. Also
during this period Mr, Swerison and his staff developed the first
comprehensive picture of the Cuban intelligence structure and
Srganizational details. These results were due to Mr. Swenson’s
@rive, experience, and ability. As stated in my previous report
on Mr. Swenson, "he is impatient with colleagues and collaborators
Qhom he feels do not measure up to his own high standards." This
Continues to lead to personal friction and detracts from his many |
capabilities, I bolieve he is best suited as a senior high-level
operations officer or the chief of a small active station rather

than as a staff officer.

He handles funds and manpower prudently.

SECTION D

BY SUPERVISOR, a
Fils WEbGRT WAS HOT BEEN SiioWN TO EMPLOVER. Give EXPLANA
OPFIGIAC Titi OF SUPERVISOR ~ Cs ay tag ano SIGNATURE
Mees SO SEAS
28 January 1965 | Deputy Chief, WH (SA) Bruce B, Cheever
3. __BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL Be

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NG OFFICIAL

LES Mar os
| abu (daca
! ‘aford W, Herbert

eave forPicial TITLE OF REVI

12 March 1965 Deputy Chief, WHD
: SECRET

i aeeitien ) Hee



nom

f els,
gre aed Ge y

=)
TA

arto
“¢

dh
a

eeenenaeata Anita Mini Aus SA hie cai at eat Ste ulyabatst ustabeish a

nil iaaiah AS amare lala ald
