104-10102-10071]__ -| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992] +: »
ae Dearnrsarsa eanc!, - ““estsaal Beteare ef tbe Oniied Suse: wiinin toe eeseice 5. Sepseunce lawn, Tide ce
i O86 bore 19) oud TH. tne rarer aps meee, ‘omit or ton.

a CS 3-312.°91870-G65__

at Zuuncare pute «= July 1966

fe
avy Sov =| NO. PAGES 2
in asitip Aiey

7 | EEPEnPNCES
i ‘ RETURN TO CIA
pu OF Late April and mid-Junz- 1906 | po Background Use Only
pace & See belos jae Not Reproduce
Daz ACO. FATLD PePSET 210.

‘ source: See below. iz . ;
ae France, Paris (41 Juse 133) __y|- ie ni - :

Source, Fara. a: |

. B.. In wid-Jter 1966 « , “wap of officers eas enid to be looking for

> if “way cut" (Frener.. “uuc sortie”) for Castro. Although inforned -
of this project. Castru 18 taking so action, while following the
affair cizecie. Thit srovp of aiticers, rode up of senbers of

Coa

F2D)_BaETABTON BOUNCE GOADTVOS 028 BETLTT-D APITAIGAL OF COMTERT 60 TINTATVE,

i ‘ . tke 26th July Novenent, is directed by Pedre<i: ret-Prieto, a - : . . .
facie Gooen | Cor, fer Barty (PCCY Censra) Cormigtee =esber, and by :

‘ feasts Aieasa, Dicestor uf tav—iational Port Service.}-

“ Unites fates 11 June 1966) 7 (677 Oiled ae oe sot

Bouce, fase. 2.0 A prcmiutin Codes exile vith wcll éofined poli- _

. tical ambitions. source ‘s a fairly reliable reporter. In addi-~

‘ tion to maintaining an unusually large ‘humber of direct and in-:
: @irect contacts amoung Cuban exiics and intluential Latin Jmerican
mationals. he ras some contacts in Cupa. Source said that he ob-
tained this anformition | from a governnente). enployee on the island

an 2 unquest ton: ible: and
Zosque, Sergio de ve

In late anrit 1956 unrest witht: t
Utery icuders_} lisse Juan,
dinencz. ‘and “Pedro‘airet, “ho neve qcined thé respect
Ela OT the tranns! eave the aorearance, of sucporting the récine

more out of Loyalty than of conviction.4, These men are “devoted
to their nilitury duties, and they follow the leader.or the cause’:
ere Sei thes fount against Batista. <sihout becoming tafluencea

tat. ideolozy. - Mators: BornabegSrdazZucunze: and Victor

Pedcyg cn sho are nor Cosruaist Party sicobers, arc

ee cree Ordiz tn-preoccuried with his sob in the Havana

Resists (forzerly Mazorra) goeriren, a and Bordon bas been re-

Jegated to an unimportant post. i

be

E preeaen yh

7 et 44 ries NATIONAL. SECURITY INFORMATIO
12 sep 2498 = ; Unauthorized Disclosure : ret
ee Aen are Subject to Criminal Sanctiong --


fet eee ‘ KEGGIIS- “Tete
yP C 5 FaCR-E-T | YO
eo ee fee ~ NO FOREIGN piseey/conTmOuLED M4 wes.
gas -2- \__espp-312/02570-66

70 Hl areres
“Headquarters Comments a A
of C5-211/08769-66 troulen official Spanish
SGentiises ofher Arnaz Bes ‘ho sre #216 to be
contin: effurts to crsanize resetlion; Niret and
= ie Me stello tere not mentitmec in the ‘Spcnisk Service report.
1.

2. Pazcgra:

cllo is reporced)y en int: ite friend of FaurcZcozon
Medisvilin,/ Minizter_cf_Traaspor

d on and leadersot @
1 a3th_of Yarch evolutionery Dircctorare, an organizs+io2 to
| Shieh Céxtelio belonged.” ' 7 t
: 4 ute
* toe . 2. Unlike Miret and del Vaile, Alceida is not a PCC Central
P06, Committee penver; ccl Valle is » aenber of the Politicel
a Bureau and also of the Revolutionary Arned Forces aré State
Security Comnitiee of the Centrai Committee of tne PCC.

eee a 3. ‘DCS-314/02675-66 corteins Dordon’s cozrests ebout unrest
dn the Fs2, which. in his opinion, is greater every day tut
seeasiatn © * does not pose a cursent threat +c the Carico rézive becouse
7 - + gutoa}-distrust between officers, noncommissioned officers,
= and enlisted. men makes any cnite? action impossible. Bordon
Gg 4s one of auuercus aziz officers whose arrese hrs been re-
to portee by refusee sources in the purge which followed the
eee . Cabela trial. CS-211.'95970-66 sad reports referenced therein
i

- i contain speculsticn on the reasons behind the purge. incluc-

. ing the pussibility that tke perse as directed at merbers
. ‘ of the 13th of “arcs Revolctionary Directorate.
e i fe i 5
: |. pee eee oe
ion iz . . 7
ere
oe : >» :

j
{

ee.

: " $-8-CoR-E-T
_MO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED 7 23SEM

s

or

UST ROR CTR ee at gare

