{104-10120-10371]
(104-10120-10371]

a

RETURN TO CIA

see Background Use Only

13 starcn blot Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR: . Chief, Support Brench
FROM : Chief, Cover Support Desk

2
suBsect ° + COVER, (ionorFicta1)~ GENERAL
(Proposal Yor A&E Assessment of Potential
REDSKIN Agent Candidates)
#90682 :

1, Reference is made to my previous memoranda pertaining
to the Subject as captioned above, ending with the Memorandum
for the Reccrd dated 28 February 1961.

2. As indicated in the referenced memoranda, CCG has been
experiencing difficulty in obtaining an appropriate (nonofficial ye4
cover activity that can-be used for tpe initial assessment of
REDSKTN candidates. The activity in(Pittsbu gh)is no longer

under consideration for use in this connection. jo

3. After appropriete coordination was effected among the
Chief of Assessment and Evaluation Staff, the Deputy Chief of
SR Division, Tom STRANGE of CCG, and the writer, itwas decided

+ due to the time element it would not be possible to utilize

t
74 nonofficial-jcover unit for the initial assessment. Since

4

CoG has no suitable cover assets, they are requesting the
SB/2 Desk, by separate memorandum, to make 2 survey to come up
with several companies which can be utilized for this purpose
next year.
4. As a result of CCG's inability to provide an appropriate
cover, the REDSKIN program, for this season, will proceed along
- the lines that were utilized during the past years, i.e, after
the candidates have been appropriately cleared, they will be
contacted by a representative of $R/10 using alias Agency
credentials. The only change in the procedure will involve
the dual contact by a representative of $R/10 and of the -
Assessment and Eveluation Staff of CTR. The latter, a psychologist,
Will be documented with a CIA alias credential similar to
+ carried by the SR/10 represen: the psychologist will

, 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992



(. + BBTURNTO CIS
Sagkground Use Of.
» OoNet Reproduce

5. There is attached a copy of a memorandum from the Chief,
Assessment and Evaluation Staff dated 9 March 1961, which requests
alias CIA, credentials for this purpose for two psychologists
of that Staff. Due to the exvedite nature of this request, it
has been processed by the Cover Support Desk and the Physical
Security Division (Badge Office) and CIA alias credentials are
currently being prepared. They will be issued directly to the
two psychologists involved. As you will recall, credit checks
were conducted on all of the A&E Staff; no record was found
reflecting Agency employment for the two psychologists concerned.
They will be placed under domestic cover by ‘CCG as a further

precauticn.

6. No further action is indicated in this matter at this

‘time.
a
Attachment: ¢
ARE Memo dated 9 March, 1961
KUENKE/ewd (3-13-61)

CLOSED

. Kubhke, Jr.

