# 104-10128-10361

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10128-10361

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

----+=

416.6

...

LEMWRANDON FOR:

chief, ki siviaion

THOUGh:

SUBJECI:

Deputy Director (Plans)

Approval of Recamendation for the Intelligence

Medal of Herit to Davia A. PAULIPS

1. On 8 September 1956, General Cabell, Acting Director of

Central Intelligence, approved the recommendation that str. pattlips

1s attachod for your retention.

2, The Deputy Idrector of Central Intelligence bas Indicated

that, generally speakitE, he vould Ilke to mase the presentation

promptly 11 the DirEctor's conference RoOl. Our reCordE Indicate

that Ir. Fhillips 18 not at beadguarters and la ver of tales, it

would be appreciated 1f you would notify me when be will be avail-

able, In addition, please indicate say sussestions jou say bare

regaring individuals suor you believe shoula be at the preseutation,

such at, one or two nenbers of his Innediate lunily and represcata-

tives frot yuur office. Upon receipt of your suggestlota, I will

sake reccencadations to leneral Cabell for his ayproval.

j. In the meantlot, MI. Fulllips lty be sotsfied that General

Cabell bes approved the recommenintion.

4. II you have any questions regarding the above, plotte

contect Hr. [manucle Fontanal extendan 845%-

Farx1s0n G. ReynoldE

Chalrass,

¡ODOT ANArdS BOSTA

Attachment:

As stated above

Distribution:

Orig. and 1 - Addressee

1 - DD/P

A - Chairman, HAB

1 - Recorder, HAB

I - subject's File S-Chal

HAB:RBoulton lan/8457 (2 October 56)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

2/15

---

