(104-10186-10282|

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992}

a CENTRAL INTELUUGENCE AGENCY

“Thu euateftal dootaine informatina afecting the Natlonsl Defense of thé United States witsin the meaning of the Rrplonage Lawa Tue
10 BSC Seca TA and TH. the trabamlaion of revelation of which in aby manner to an unectdctimd perma te prohibited 7

30° FOREIGY DISSEN “Agena 7 To Cig

country Cuba REPORT NO. CSCI-316/09652-64 Revved cay
suwect Maria del Cazmer CARRACEDO DATE DISTR 11 August 1964

\ : NO. PAGES 1. :

REFERENCES CS-311/00115-64 i
pate or 1984
ype Washingtan, D. C. 5
DATE AC August. 13: FIELD REPORT NOL

"SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. ABPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuben
. Intelligence Service until April 1964,

Eeadquarters Comnents - !

The following report is one of a series containing
personality inforration provided by the source and
ineluces supplemental information from the records

of this Agency.

It is requestes that the adcressees taxe no action on
any of the indivicuals mentioned in the personality
reports without first cheesing with this Agency.

1, Maria dei Carmen CARRACEDO, pseudonym "Mercedes," is in
charge of the nail office in the Central Processing
Section (Tranites) of the Departamento de Liberacion
Nacional (iiationai Liberation Department - LX) in the
Direccion Genera? de Intelivencia (General Directorate
of Intelizgence - DGI). She was a DGI officer rho
worked on such cases as thet of "Pipi" FAXAS, a Dominican
who ‘ied curing tie revolt in the Dowinican Regublic
in December 1963, She xnows all about secret writing.

2, CARRACEDO was born in i943, is five feet five inches
tall, weighs 110 soands, has a fair complexion, black,
wavy heir which is cut stort, black eyes, thin arched
eyebrows, a small nose, and a lean face. She resides at
Calle D, Xvuber 202 Esquina a9 Lawton; telesione number
98 <47, She is engage: to the First Secretery of the Cuban
Enbessy in Italy. | CARRACEDO has a brother who is &
physician at the "Calixto Garcia" Hospital in Zabana. :

ut

cquarters Com

1, The records of this Agercy reveal no identifiable traces on

rreauw

eeone

CARRACEDO.
SECRET
1.0 FOREIGN DISSEM
[state Tow Tawar Traw Tar Tusa TMXXX oct Tre 2
REP CU; CLA. CU:CsO_#
‘eae Fld dinibution indicated by

eee

CT (ANG a)

eran eer nets
Se yee

SorormrneT na

PuX LE 5)

ae 1652

OBSOLETE PHEVIOUS EDITIONS
