Tyoa-to0820104

Care (

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

\
Fen)

[bIsPatis. s¥n@OL AND NO.

cay  euassirication:
[ DISPATCH “SECRET Saga 15979
TO: Chief, WH Division TERESA EN.

“ 50-6-74/1

FA JOATE

OM
: Chief of Station, Mexico City

18 November 1960

al

RE “a3 — (CHECK “X" ONE)

- LIEMPTY Project Renewal

MARKED FOR INDEXING.

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

NRG

Renewal of Project

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED.
BY QUALIFIED HG. DESK ONLY

RereRMENCESS

of Project LIEMPTY,.

16 November 1960

Attachment >

As stated above, (Even pages forwarded herewith)
(Odd pages under separate cover)
Distribution:

3 - WHD (with five copies of attachment)

2- Files (with one copy of attachment)

Attached are the requisite number of copies of the Request for Renewal

c. GALS

» CURTIS

2 coordinate
opriate,

5 2233

=

/
and i
sMN se c- 7e Kh
Pye ‘uoue SECRET sex — C1 conmaro |



14-00000

CRYPTONYM: LIEMPTY HEADQUARTERS CASE OFFICER: /
v
OPERATING DIVISION: Wi Charlotte L, Zehrung
FIELD STATION: Mexico City ROOM NO.: __1015 Barton Hall
EXTENSION: 2555/3162
TARGET AREA: Mexico DATE: _13 December 1960

1, It is requested that the LIEMPTY Project be renewed for the
period 1 December 1960 through 30 November 1961 for a total of
$53,000; $31,900 for fiscal year 1961 and $21,100 for fiscal year
1962, The LIEMPTY Project was programmed for $85,000, During the
past project year, approximately $59,880 was obligated,

2. This Project provides operational support to the Station
and is not a source of positive intelligence, Examples of opera=
tional data developed through this project are given in paragraph I
of the attached Station Review of Project LIEMPTY, There have been
no disseminations made at Headquarters of intelligence produced
through LIEMPTY,

3, The only training provided LIEMPTY personnel during the
period under review was given to Raymond H, GERENDE, He is being given
training in basic flaps and seals techniques so that the Station will
have a trained agent outside the Station who will be able to provide
this service if required, No further training for GERENDE or any of
the other LIEMPTY agents is being cohtemplated for the coming year,

4, Attached for the information of the Staffs is a dispatch
from the Station (HMMA+14793). dated 8 April 1960 which answers ‘the
questions raised at the time of the last renewal,

5, With reference to Paragraph VIL, Emergency Condition,
contained in the attached Project Review, the Mexican desk has.on
record in the permanent file of Raymond H, GERENDE and Oliver G,
SCANTLING, the details of emergency recontact instructions which
have been agreed upon between the Station and each Agent,



14-00000

6. It is requested that the LIEMPTY Project be renewed on the |
basis of the attached Project Review,

COORDINATION: . mal u Anan as
Ned P. Holman, AC/WH/3

C-W- Ae roe |

GW, Anderson, WHD Proj. Officer

Approved for Transmittal : W- Qe toKy sea

5, C, King, C/Wap

my 32] ¢0 : |

ATTACHMENTS: (14) DATE
Review of Project LIEPTY
Copy of HMMA~14793
Form 680
Folder with past renewals

ee



14-00000

REVIEW OF PROJECT LIEMPTY

(Por the Purpose of Project Renewal)

COVER SHEET
CRYPTONYM LIEMPTY FIELD CASE OFFICERQuinton OUSLER

STATION Mexico City CHIEF OF STATION Miller heer

The attached project action is presented for approval for the

‘period 1 December 1960 through 30 November 1961.

eds TES


14-00000

SECRET ggg.

REVIEW OF PROJECT LIEMPTY
(For the Purpose of Project Renewal)

I. CURRENT OBJECTIVES AND PRODUCTION

A. Oliver G. SCANTLING Segment (discussed in relation
to project objectives):

1. "To collect operational information per=
taining to LIMERICK personnel and physical
facilities." SCANTLING has continued (See the
last Project Review forwarded as an attachment
to HPEMA~14093, 13 November.1959) to provide
worthwhile and significant information per—
taining to the above objective. There follow
a few examples of SCANTLING's production:

a A detailed casing of the LIMERICK
electrical power supply was forwarded
to Headquarters as an attachment to
HMMA-14496, 12 February 1960. The pro-
duction of this type of operational |
information, which takes several weeks |
to compile accurately, illustrates the '
unusual talents possessed by SCANTLING l
together with his valuable contributions
to the Station's operational information f
collection effort. H

b. SCANTLING has been used frequently
to follow up leads produced by LIFHAT/
LIMERICK (now produced by LIENVOY). For |
example, in May 1960, LIFEAT indicated i
that the LIMERICK target was having con— |
siderable contact with an AGENCIA ROBLES |
concerning the handling of incoming and 8
outgoing shipments. By discreet investi~
gation, SCANTLING was. able to provide. the
Station with additional pertinent information
about the address, owner and type of business
engaged in by the firm, Such information
then becomes readily available for expl
-should:'a LIMERICK shipment-of: particular eer
interest come to the attention of the Station.

ec. SCANTLING is the Station's primary H
investigative asset for keeping track of !
current residence addressees of LIMERICK

personnel. The Station considers it important

from the counterespionage standpoint to main-

tain information on the location of ell

£8)



14-00000

LIMERICK residences. In addition, specific
targets are continually considered for LICOOL
installations. A recent exemple of SCANTLING's
efforts in this connection wuld be the spot-
ting and acquisition of the LIMOTOR base in
the same apartment building with LITALON +1.
Contributions. of this type operational informa~
tion are quite time consuming due to. the
necessity for checking out several apartments
that a LIMERICK individual may initially be
considering as a residence.

2. "To collect operational information pertaining to
other targets of opportunity, foreign official instella~
tions and personnel of intelligence interest operating
in Mexico." As indicated below, SCANTLING is also
extremely useful for collecting information on targets
other than LIMERICK:

@e In March 1960 SCANTLING was instrumental
in locating property adjacent to the LITABBY
installation which the Station has since
rented in anticipation of initiating photo-
graphic and technical operations. SCANTLING
was able to accomplish this assignment only
after a thorough casing and pretext investi-
gations of the several pieces of property
appropriate for such operations.

be SCANTLING is also used to follow up
sensitive leads in connection with LIFEAT
and LIENVOY production from LITABBY and
sister tar; gots (See example as to type
under I,A,. b and ¢ above).

c. SCANTLING was used as an investigative
asset to determine the local address and
exact employment of Gordon William GROVES
(201-220025), a counterespionage case of
interest to Headquarters and ODENVY.

3. “fo exploit operational leads through recruitments
@ebriefings, and surveillances.". As examples of
SCANTILING's contribution to this objective, the
following cases are listed: . 7

a. SCANTLING devoted a considerable amount

of time to his attempts to locate Cesar

GONZALEZ Sanchez, a knorn agent of a Com

munist Country, "He followed various leads

on GOWZALEZ from March to August 1960 before
G ~ i a

|
}


14-00000

“extensive photographic: coveragé-of the LIMERIOK tareety:=

GONZALEZ was finally identified amd his

Mexico City home md business addresses were
e@scertained. See HMMA~15626, 9 September 1960,
for further details on this cases

db. ‘The preliminary investigative work ona
KUSODA case of priority interest was conducted
by SCANTLING. During this investigation it

was necessary for SCANTLING to travel to
Aquascalientes, Guanajuato md Minatitlan to
obtain the information required by Headquarters.
See the attachments to HMMT-1416, 20 May 1960,
for the results of the investigation.

4- In addition to his contributions to the above objec
tives, SCANTLING is used for miscellaneous support
requirements of the Station. For example, SCANTLING
handled several of Raymond H, GERENDE's (ps) operations
while the latter was away from Mexico City during August
and September 1960, Also, SCANTLING has been managing
the LIJERSEY surveillance team since the departure of
Simon D. CLACKETT in August 1960. It is hoped that
SCANTLING can be relieved of this assignment as soon

as the LITEMPO project is approved. SCANTLING has also
been used to spot and rent safe houses for various
Station operations, a valuable operational. support
services

5e As stated in the preceeding Request for Project
Renewal, al though SCANTLING's LIEMPTY Project objectives
can never be completely fulfilled, it is the Station's
opinion that SCANTLING hes made important and valuable
contributions to LIEMPTY Project objectives specifically
and to other Station activities in generd. SCANTLING's.
production, measured against monetary expenditures,

case officer time and other intangible factors, unques—
tionably justifies his continuation as m integral part
of Project LIEMPTY.

Raymond H. GERENDE Segment (discussed in relation to project
objectives):

1. fo collect operational information pertaining to
LIMERICK personnel and physical facilities through use
of photographic base houses." Together with their.

the photographic bases also contrib
operational information:

Other types of

@ LIMITED - This base compiles daily logs
indicating ell arrivals, dewrtures and,
where possible, identities of every person
visiting or working at the LIMERICK target.

a



14-00000

This information is particularly useful in keeping track of
LIMERICK personnel and assisting with the identification of
visitors.to the installation, Also, LIMITED maintains a
summary attendance list of LIMERICK employees on a daily
basis; this enables the Station quickly to ascertain the
presence or absence of an employee on any given day,
Finally, one other significant service is performed by this
base, the radio dispatching of the LIEMBRACE surveillance
team on LIMERICK personnel and targets of opportunity,
LIMITED's photographic coverage is still concentrated on
visitors, as opposed to employees, to the LIMERICK
installation, A recent example of the base's contributions to
Station efforts is the case of Joseph Ralph MAURI. In this
case, a LIENVOY lead indicated that an American might visit

the LIMERICK target on a certain day, The base was alerted -

to dispatch the radio-controlled surveillance team on any
person appearing to be an American, The results of this
assignment were indicated in MEXI-6392 and several other
cables, LIMITED was also able to provide photographs,
which when compared with photographs provided by Head-
quarters, left no question as to MAURI's identity.

b, LILYRIC - This base's output of high-quality clandestine
photographs has been in about the same quantity as last year,
jn addition, the base operator, LIEMPTY-14, prepares weekly
reports on LIMERICK employees and their wives. LILYRIC
also performs the assignment of noting and reporting the
license plate numbers of.all cars bringing visitors to the’
LIMERICK installation, LILYRIC photographs also are con-
centrated on visitors to the target, as opposed to employees,
‘It should be noted that LILYRIC operates for photographic
coverage during the hours from daylight to,1400 hours each
day of the week except Sunday, The LIMITED base maintains
photographic coverage from 1400 hours to ee each day
except Sunday, es 2

c,, LICALLA - As reported in previous correspondence, the
LICALLA base contributes to the collection of operational
information through photographic coverage of LIMERICK
employees and their families, Also, the base operator,

SECRET ene?



14-00000

SECRET A>

-5-

LIEMPTY-9, supplies extremely worthwhile information
pertaining to the apparent positions and jobs of the target
employees, He accomplishes this objective by careful
observation and analysis, LICALLA also maintains a daily
attendance roster of all LIMERICK employees. LICALLA
coverage of the target, both photographic and physical
observations, enables the Station to keep abrest of LIMERICK
personnel changes, a vital contribution to the Station's counter-
espionage effort.

2, “To collect operational information and identify operational leads
pertaining to Station targets of opportunity." The LIENTRAP operation, |
handled by GERENDE, is the major contributor to this objective. It
has been possible for LIENTRAP to take photographs and to perform
pretext investigations in support of numerous Station activities, The
cases listed below are cited as examples:

a, In the case of Cesar GONZALEZ Sanchez (see I, A, 3,a, above)
LIENTRAP was able to procure photographs of GONZALEZ at his |
Mexico City residence which, when compared to Headquarters i
provided photographs, left no doubt that GONZALEZ was the |-
subject of interest to Headquarters. :

b,. LIENTRAP confirmed the identity of Olga CASTILLO de Ledon, i
a frequent visitor to the LIMERICK installation and an ardent i
supporter of the present Cuban regime, through a pretext
investigation of the residents of an apart ment building where
CASTILLO was believed to live, Later, LIENTRAP supported the
results of the investigation with excellent photographs of the
subject,

3. "To provide operational support to Station operations, i.e., rent
hotel rooms and apartments, and conduct counter-surveillances."" !
GERENDE is used frequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for .
other Station operations and activities. GERENDE's comprehensive
area knowledge and personal operational capabilities combine to make |
him an extremely valuable Station asset for such support activities,
GERENDE also procures post office box letter drops for the many
Station operations requiring them,

SECRET ee


14-00000

SECRET/ gga
-6-

4, It is the Station's conclusion that the money and case officer time
expended on this segment of the LIEMPTY project is worthwhile and
should be continued in view of the quality and quantity of operational
information produced,

Cc, Simon D, CLACKETT Segment (discussed in relation to project
objectives) :

1, "To collect operational information and to identify operational leads
pertaining to the LIMERICK target and Station targets of opportunity,"
During this project year the LIJERSEY surveillance team under the
direction of CLACKETT began contributing to the Station's support
efforts through pretext investigations and physical surveillances, Some
exaimples of the team's work are listed below:

i
|
|
1
|
a, Rafael TISCHLER Guzman (201-64372) is a Guatemalan |
Communist which the team had under surveillance from |
November 1959 to April 1960. The surveillance, together |
with information acquired from other sources, eventually. |
resulted in an unsuccessful recruitment attempt on TISCHLER,
i
i
i
i
|
|

b, Pericles FRANCO Ornes (201-64546) - FRANCO is a
Dominican of interest to the Station, The LI[ERSEY team
devoted portions of five months, January to May 1960, collecting
information on subject through physical surveillance,

c, Jose Maria "Chema" LOPEZ Valdizon (201- ) was the
subject of a physical surveillance during May and June 1960,
LOPEZ was later deported from Mexico through the efforts
of LITEMPO-2,

d, CLACKETT and the LIJERSEY team performed numerous.
pretext investigations on Station targets of opportunity and on
three separate occasions during the project year served as ©"
a counter- surveillance escort for Station officers in other
operations,

2, CLACKETT, ‘just prior to his resignation in August , Spent
about five weeks giving tradecraft and operational skills training to
LITEA-1. Although not specifically covered by the project objectives,
this ability on CLACKETT's part is considered a significant con-
tribution to the Station's support efforts.

SECRET Sane

i
i
!
1
|
i
|


14-00000

SECRET AG \
-7-

3, In view of CLACKETT's resignation, which was effective 31
August 1960, and the proposed transfer of the LIIERSEY team to
the LITEMPO project, this segment of the LIEMPTY project will
not be renewed, . However, for the record, it is considered that
the CLACKETT segment of LIEMPTY was worthwhile and the

expenditure of Station assets in connection with LTERSEY operations
were justified,

D. Relationship to Related Mission Directive Objectives:

It can readily be noted that Project LIEMPTY has provided support to
many Station operations and in this manner has been a contributing factor
to the furtherance of the Related Mission Directive, The project has not
produced any positive intelligence nor has. it been intended that it should
do so, The project's sole purpose is to provide a mechanism for the
development of operational information in support of other Station
operations,

me CHANGES

A, Simon D, CLACKETT

The unexpected resignation of CLACKETT in August 1960 has
necessitated the decision as how best to utilize the LJERSEY surveillance |
team and still benefit from the training and experience gained by the team :
during the past year. As explained in the LITEMPO project outline, it was
decided that the LITEMPO Staff Agent would have the time, the need and the
requirements to handle and manage the LIJERSEY team on a regular basis;
consequently, the Station believed that such a solution to this problem would
permit the Station to continue to profit from CLACKETT's past effoxts, i

hy
B, Oliver G, SCANTLING {

Since CLACKETT's departure, SCANTLING has been handling the '
LYERSEY team as an interim measure pending Headquarters approval of re
the LITEMPO project.. SCANTLING has been exposed to, -and likewise.
knows, only one of the team 'members;: LIEMPTY=20:+ - SGANTING f
known to L-20 only by an alias, ‘

SECRET/ Ree


14-00000

SECRET Agia
-8-
C. Personnel Changes

1, LIEMPTY-15 - Member of the LIJERSEY surveillance team -
Transferred to Project LITEMPO and cryptonym changed to
LITED-2,

2, LIEMPTY-16 - Member of the LIERSEY surveillance team -

Transferred to Project LITEMPO and cryptonym changed to
LITED-3.

3, LIEMPTY-20 - Assistant Team Leader of LIJERSEY. surveillance

team - Transferred to Project LITEMPO and cryptonym changed to
LITED-1,

4, LIEMPTY-25 - Most recent addition to the LIJERSEY surveillance

team. Transferred to Project LITEMPO and cryptonym changed to
LITED-4,

5. There have been no other personnel changes within the LIEMPTY
project, excepting the resignations of Simon D, CLACKETT and
Wilma J, FIORDALISL

EFFECTIVENESS

A, General comments pertaining to the value of the project efforts to the
Station's needs - The Station is of the opinion that its operations are only
as good as the support mechanisms backstopping and contributing to them,
The availability of unilateral ‘Support agents and organizations, such as
| the LIEMPTY Project, to investigate leads and to collect operational
information is an indispensable ingredient to the Station's espionage and
counterespionage c ol ‘ives, The Station would be seriously handicapped
in its operational activities should the support services of such agents.as
GERENDE, SCANTLING and the agents under their control be suddenly.
made unavailable,

B. LIMERICK Target - The basis for most of the-Station's counter-

espionage activities directed against the LIMERICK target require detailed

knowledge of the identity, activities and fellow associates of LIMERICK
personnel, The LIEMPTY photographic basehouses undoubtedly provide
more of this type information than any other Station operation. The
production from LIEMPTY photographic bases and from the LIENVOY
project provide the Station with the large majority of LIMERICK leads.

SECRET mig”



14-00000

v.

.
SECRET/29@
-9-

CG. Targets of Opportunity - The immediate availability of independent
assets to perform investigations, photographic assignments and other
essential types of support services in connection with Station targets of
opportunity represent an operational advantage which this Station considers
highly significant, It is due to such LIEMPTY assets that an agent can be
sent to distant areas in Mexico to do investigations, that photographs can
be made of individuals and places which are of operational interest and
apartments and hotel rooms can be acquired in fictitious names in

support of sensitive operations and activities.

D, Although the progress and success of any support project depends
upon requirements from other Station operations, it must be concluded
that Project LIEMPTY has indeed been effective during the past project
year,

PROBLEMS.

A, Security - The activities of the LICALLA base were suspended in
September 1960 as a direct result of the arrest of three KURIOT
technicians by the Cuban Government, One of the technicians was known
to have knowledge of the four LIMUST units (LICALLA: is located in one
of these units) and the Station considered it appropriate to suspend photo-
graphic operations pending resolution of the situation, At this time,
there is no indication when LICALLA operations will be resumed, The
LICALLA base operator has reported that there have been no unusual
inquiries or other suspicious actions which might indicate that LICALLA
has been compromised to LIMERICK personnel; however, such a
possibility will exist until the release of the three technicians. No
other security problems have occurred during the past year,

PLANS

A. Processing of Photographs - During the past year considerable
progress has been made in the Station's handling, i.e, sorting, indexing,
identifying leads and filing, of photographs produced by the several bases,

B, Photographic Techniques - The previous LIEMPTY Project Renewal
Request indicated that the Station planned to try new techniques using
HY-PAN film in night photography. HY-PAN film was used on a trial
basis during daylight hours with poor results, Almost invariably, prints

SECRET /S



14-00000

SECRET/KSSR
-10-

from HY-PAN negatives were too grainy and, consequently, were of
little use in producing good identified shots of individuals. In view
of these experiments, night photography has not yet been attempted,
It should be noted that Eastman Kodak's new TRI-X PAN film, which
all bases and LIENTRAP now use, is superior to any film previously
used by the Station for clandestine photography. The quality ofall «
base photographs have been increased elaine) as a direct result
of this new film,

C. General Comments - The Station believes that the GERENDE
segment is now operating under optimum organizational arrangments
and there are no plans for expansion contemplated at this time. It is
expected that SCANTLING will soon be relieved of his interim
responsibility for the LITERSEY team and can concentrate more on his
investigative and casing activities, The transfer of the LIIERSEY team
to Project LITEMPO reduced Project LIEMPTY activities by an
appreciable amount, It is not planned, during the coming year, to
expand present LIEMPTY activities.

CosTS

A, Past Project Year - Station finance records indicate that Project
LIEMPTY expended $19, 120.91 during Fiscal Year 1960 (1 December
1959 - 30 June 1960) and has thus far during Fiscal Year 1961 (through
31 October 1960) expended $16, 734,69. Contract Agents salaries and
allowances paid by Headquarters bring the total expenditures for 11
months of the project year to approximately $50,000.00. An additional
$4, 000. 00 will be obligated during the 12th month of the project year.
This will bring total project expenditures to about $54, 000.00 for the
entire project year,

B, Ensuing Period - Of the total $53,000.00 budget, itemized below,
$31, 900.00 should be expended during the remainder of Fiscal Year
1961 and the balance, $21,100.00, should be expended during Fiscal
Year 1962, Normal accounting procedures will be used for all
expendizures,

SECRET /iaseefemm



14-00000

SECRET/oii>

AGENT

Raymond H, GERENDE é- 32743
Oliver G, SCANTLING ¢- 26f63
Louise J, MACRINO °-4/¢/s2

(@ $2.02 per hour)
LIEMPTY~4- ¢ - 9/572,
LIEMPTY-5 ¢- 5#¥/2

(@ $1.75 per BOW) iy
LIEMPTY-6 ¢-2
LIEMPTY-7 No Salary ¢- 3/0727
LIEMPTY-8 ¢- 30°74
LIEMPTY-9 © -S@677
LIEMPTY-10 ¢- 379
LIEMPTY-11 ¢- #437
LIEMPTY-12 c- 3¢22¢
LIEMPTY-13 ¢-¥6% 45"
LIEMPTY-14 ¢- vey
LIEMPTY-19 ¢. 74577
LIEMPTY-24 No Salary ¢- 75622
Christmas bonuses all personnel

SUB-TOTAL
OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

Maintenance of MV:-2279, 2284
and 2286,

Operational Travel

Procurement of Safehouses, post
Office boxes and renting
automobiles,

Purchase of information,

+. identification documents, and

~ bribes, :

-ll-

$ 5,040.00
4, 560.00

BESSESS £8 8
888888 8 88 8

2
i=]
Ss

10.00

ry
S

$ 2,000.00
500, 00
2,000.00

2,500, 00

SUB-TOTAL

SECRET djeiaovoe>

U.S. $ PER ANNUM

$ 38,000.00

$ 7,000.00



14-00000

tT a O° ome
. . SECRET gga |

~12-

OPERATIONAL EQUIPMENT. 5

Repair and maintenanceof $ 500.00 5
* camera equipment,
Purchase of replacement 2,000, 00
photographic equipment and
supplies,

SUB-TOTAL 2,509.00
REAL ESTATE

Rent, utilities and maintenance
of following safehouses =:

*LIMITED $
*LICALLA
LILYRIC

ggg
sss
88s

SUB-TOTAL 5, 500.00

GRAND TOTAL $53, 000. 00

*LIMITED and LICALLA rents are returned to the Station by LIMOUSINE and.
credited to Station miscellaneous receipts,

‘VIL. EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

As regards the requirement listed in CSI-F No, 230-60, Annex A, for
communications arrangments in the event of "Emergency Conditions," i
the Station does not anticipate that this project would or could continue i
to function under its present objectives. However, both principal | :
agents, SCANTLING and GERENDE, would very possibly be worthwhile i
sources of information to maintain contact with under any adverse |
conditions, Both: of these agents. identify themselfs, in. terms of. u
idéology, motivation and perspective, “more as Americans that as
Mexican nationals (which they are), It is reasonable to assume, there- i
fore, that SCANTLING and GERENDE would become valuable contacts |
in any emergency situation, |

\
nN

¢
Ni


mnNN

SECRET /RFOR-

-13-

The Station is aware that the previous project renewal stated that
emergency communications arrangments were being made, The
Station has finally obtained the U.S, addresses of relatives through
whom GERENDE and SCANTLING could be contacted under most.
situations, This information will be forwarded separately.

