/104-10780-10193 {022 RELEASE. UNDER THE PRESIDENT: JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF BF faga] ane

ee
ar —-
- was
°S, : Sellowing infernatien/securet by
. fren hin ceversatiens with Guillerme, Dr. Ojeta, esta, Fernandes,

tel te

-‘.alentin, Graciela, larche, Tace, Alba, etcs anf in sre
ha in Uscanhray.

ot - an appreciation ef latest happening ant present ‘situat!

Histery: Please check previeus reverts fer accuracy. se was th- first ene
te take up arms in iscambray ayainst Sasi shertly after his taking ever the

ceurtry. As time'went en, ether oreups t a
different. zenes throughout the Escanbray, Seme ef these creurs were Sinecie,

Benvive, Ouqua, ‘Alba, tamirez, etc. etc. as reperted. Guillem whe is
well knwen and liked.-{n ‘that-zene as the ene respensible fer the II Frent ef:
: feesabray in the fight against Batista, went to the zene fren Kavana, prebaby
: in the first) quarter ef 1960 te ermanize hia ewn greup and ererate a clandes-

tine raife statiens Guillerre ’. a
sh. FS 0 previeus fight inst Batista,
genes Sulllerme did net take u;
a i zed, ny ywerking unde> cever
Eee June/e: therabeuts. At that tine sene ef Sujllerme's creup. were

‘taxen wisiener but Guillerme set away and care te “avana were be rerained
hddden’ tom wiaitinge‘centact frem the “errany.

arns and started

The iompany had evidently premiae! bir ant his bretier cuprert,
anche and ethers in t te public

ly at che time Guilter
tand against, cermuni sm time in 1959. Final
Guilierne there when instructiens were. given te get hi:
then trained by the ey ai
evitently agreed en. Guill
July o he ining ef August 19£0,
Ravana ‘ani ‘then preceed te Sseambray te reer:
Fa t ers. Up te that time the rreups in Escambray
each esher but there was ne cowen ehjectives and ceeperatien. Rach geeup
wan Cipiting, en his ewn and sa ler, 374 fally Sinecie use ef ris
ergenal arresancy, wanted te be the nil leader ef the +s
n SeseneGuillerme left f h Yesus and Benny. In_
they jeined a Capt.
cas. n ice del Tuerte.
2h heurs delay tecause &

e\centacted

Septemhes 2 a
centact in tenfueges

as planned with Guillerme g aturned te Havana under Jesu's insistance and
fears. On the way the rarty. + seme milicianes frem a ceererative near by

and 3enny was taken orisierer. At midnight Sept. 27-24 radie contact was

nade a, scheduled with the vase but Jesus did MCT received the hase {n hig :
sete Inte belief that theye did net make centact at all with
the yreun preceed te the last step hefere Sinecie's ca:

walk said camp in Pice del Tuerte. Sinecie was sur
vand +. arty ceuld net preceed and awaite! there until a brea
nade, shite there the party heard ef the di infanabani lla. being able
te preceed te Sinecie's cenp, Sutdlerne, the decter and Jesus iecided te
» The rest of the party ined there ani later en were ahle te

us

backtr.

cue and re Sinecie's camp. ‘millerne with the decter ani
retusned te "La Meza" after a
grnanden's fur
eza" and Guille @ (hetere)
za" te Sumanayarua, Tass taki
a ef niles deer. Ss nd the lecté
tem. A niticiane asked
avle te fullv identify
had aheut "OlIneses
eka, anicture
niohin hew te
is paper was ceverineg
peten the hack “"Prtetd.
crapher that |
he arrest. wag!
maravacua and
Wea
= a he
Ray up his TO. land supalied
atte ts Aerfoultura ste’ Janus
ce ant cet atripel. “ears eats
em ian! “en
whoa re lest

aati FHC 4 P)o%

sats 7 ee oe

ew lat
anevaer car fer hire a cou
were caisht in Cumanayanua
them questiens and arre:
Lhemseives er perhaps &
in his secks and Guilt
is ate anief tir chitiren

ala

, the picture ef his
ota Trlete™, whith &
~ picture in!

oF tha ph



so-centinueds<-

Oct a eres 16, 1960

tna} of

trek

vere in Havana near his‘ heuse. During the teeli everyene was’ presented
as caught? with Sinecie's geup up in arms in the © canbray, ‘ani that Gui- .
Llerme ‘was caught when running away. Actually, seme ef them never arrived te °
“Sinecie's camp. Sene reperts.state that Sinecle' S preup fought eff ‘the attack
until they ran etit’of amcenitien and then surrendered, Other reports say
that there was net much Mehting. becaune apparently the camp was cevered
_ with a.gas that rendered then useless, that a deg-was then let leese te
voack them dewn and al? then wore arrested witheut much ef a resistance. -
a reperts state that Sinecie killed Bénvives befere during an ar~
Sv anent ever. mas that were drepped and which Sineecle claimed were for
je It seems there was mers than just ene drep, since the arep en Rept. 29

| which was secured by the nilitia in "La Campana’ ir that ar quent dreps

Avhave veen received by tise and Duques's preups. During the a cennun: ot
Leber 11 te cr “Pareden™, but the

efinitely the peisteners;and
mercy ani cormutation

geen. squad was erganize! and sent @:
Beople “in “general fren Santa Clara
teber 12 started a Gass cence!

cencentratien inte « ¢
clear wether

ex en the Escambray and Guillerne léecke+ eut befere
ez.after the t evidently much ef it has l@&ed eut an! everyhety is
afraid and under cover, waiting |e. see how deep infi'tration been
accemplished. There been a tremendeus ralizatien ameng the greups
cennected with the =sc. action ard the psaple in general, but it has
Consolidated the ce:ter-: Vatienary greups at least in that zene, Tt
seems that the grewrs up in ars-in Uscanbray: ise, hest erganiced, Quque, ‘
ani ethers are tegether ani t » That there hag heen
mere fighting in militia ani/er

e, at uit] recetyed fren ursdquent succes? tL areps.

Obseryazion: Guillesae never did accenplisha@ his nissien as he'never tid
arrive te the is in the anbray as Military dinater

isath has achieved the-uni“{catien e* that
“the p in sreral,e: eet in
sneal te teath, Guillerma w. the enly
place ir histary and a cerven ebjective. Ths

idealism and were simple greup leaders, Julllerne
Mid net talk during the *-a4) ard lil cet offar any cemnents for er azainst.
The priateners sess net sorted er even abused, except by werd af mouth.
The tribunal pesfened death oontence three Linesen Ccteber 12, despite
the fact that tere 2 svilent persenal reas JellLing Tudiierme tn
De ineeice whe ned always ezpesed anis iin frent Fitel Sastre and
> university das. eiaintiy, the jury was
censecuences such death sentences weuld create
eral, @pecially when Guillerme ani seme ef
crared wp ant made appear te be up inyerms
squat Gulllerme stated that "-/Rive trust
F were evecuted with autematic guns and

.@ balan instant death at
Bla Janpana" Hy. The bell
Be ewn Lf they

fer the Cena
he te Cha

ene with a cle
Viera Hd nes thes

with Sinecie.
in Ged and in
Suillerze an:
a little distanc

, Clara Ceneftery,
facilye

Pp
were returned te Sanka
have beer returrel te the

und
