# 104-10120-10174

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10120-10174.

- 101740 FoR 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TORNAME

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENI

TO

Acting Director of Security

DATE: 20 October 1955

FROM :

E. M. Winters

SUBJECT:

HIDALGO, Balmes Nieves JI.

#65077

RETURN TO

CIA:

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1. This case requires an Enoch Arden decision.

2.

The Subject has apparently performed valuable ser-

vices for the FBI and us. As a result of the service for the

FBI in an undercover capacity, he testified for them against

eleven leaders of the Communist party.

3. Much as the Subject appears to deserve a position

for his services, I do not see how we can accept him as a

Staff employee for work in Panama City, Panamal. The lb.- /

publicity about his undercover work has blown his usefulness

in operations in Panama as he will be a man marked by the

Reds from now on. Then, there is some question concerning

the reason that he was selected for recruitment by the

Communists although this can probably be clarified with

Mr. Papich.

4. It is recommended, therefore, that the request

for conversion be denied. Presumably there is no objection

to Subject's continued use as a contract employee for limited

duties after we clarify the question of his recruitment by

the Communists.

Ellen us

rose at me

Enclosure:

File #65, 077 - Hildalgo.

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Adse w/ Encl

1 - Subject's File - #65, 077

1 - Chrono w/o Encl

PPS/EMW:vrj

CHIDENT AL

BR

3060t.55

---

