# 104-10129-10098

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10 129-10098.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SADLE CORE NOT USSEMINATION

!SLOTTES

"LASSIFIED MESSAGE."

TOTAL COPIES 7

GROUP I

CACK-DES ANTI

(When Filled In)

145L480481644

NEMRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

3

5

: 7

i8:

Mock 23

55324 24552

ZETON 3.N.

EWHE

-=

PER WH

8(Ed)

FILE, VR

DDR

SECRET 040054Z MAY 71 CITE MEXICO CITY 16502

DIRECTOR

RYSAI JMSPUR

ЗНа: IN 32569 1

FOR LUSSY AND ASHMEAD

REFERENCE: MEXICO CITY 16466 (/ W323122)

IN ON LEGAL FRONT, APPEARS THERE IS NO VALID WILL,

ALTHOUGH TWO DIFFERENT UNSIGNED DOCUMENIS HAVE BEEN FOUND.

KINGMAN WILL TALK TO LAWYER GOODRICH TO GET INTERPRETATION

OF WHAT THIS MEANS: LAY AND GENERAL OPINION IS THAT IT

MEANS FIFTY PERCENT GOES TO WIDOW AND REMAINING FIFTY

PERCENT OF ESTATE GOES TO CHILDREN UNDER MEXICAN LAW..

20 ON 3D APRIL, MRS CURTIS TURNED OVER FURTHER

CLASSIFIED PAPERS TO KINGMAN ALONG WITH SMALL ARSENAL OF

WEAPONS WHICH WE SHALL TAKE CARE OF DISPOSING OF PROBABLY

THROUGH GOM AUTHORITIES.

MRS

CURTIS THIS WEEK CONTINUES

COOPERATIVE WITH STATION IN EVERY WAY AND HOPE WE CAN GIVE

HER WORD SOON ON ARRIVAL. OUR LAWYER.

3. KINGMAN HAS PERSONALLY GONE THROUGH DOCUMENIS

OBTAINED FROM ARS CURIIS AND READ NEARLY ALL OF THEM. IN

VIEW INTEREST IN MANUSCRIPT WHICH CONSISTS OF NUMBER OF

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

aladse copy

TISSUES

¡SLOTTED

LLASS: ISO MESSAGE

IOTAL COPIES

GROUP!

and did in

CHERUSSO RAÇU AUTOURTI

(ilhen Filled In)

LIC: 909.0.049:54

REPROJUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

2

÷

= :

:

BY: -

PER

ACTION UNI:

FILE, V2

AETION NO.

PACE & MEXICO CITY 1SS02 SECRET

DRAFIS AND COPIES, WILL POUCH THIS MATERIAL TO YOY FOR YOUR

EXAMINATION. WILL SEND INVENTORY WITH DOCUMENTS WITH SPECIAL

NOTES WHERE PERTINENI. AS WE WANI TO GET MATERIALS OUT OF.

MEXICO, IN CASE QUESTIONS ARISE LATER, WILL POUCH FIVE

FILE BOXES 7 MAY DIRECIED TO ERNEST A. LUSBY. GP -1

SECRET.

SECRET

---

