< | CT OF 1992
“fo4-t0169-10016 (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS A\
aaa :

PR . SECRET” 1
TO 1 Clef, wi/Diviston . 2 may 1362
ATTN 1 Chief, M4
FROM 3: Interrogation Hecsarch Diviston
SUBJECT: Evelto , TEp# 49161,
DETIYING DATA |

i i I
e Subject of this repert 1s Evelio Duque MIYAR bern in Docenber
1926 fn Teintdad, Cuba. Subject sms technicalls loterrogaced on i

eaitases

10 April 1962 at a covert site in South Miami, Florida. The intege:
Wogation was conducted in Spanish through Me. Frederick Render cod) ae
who acted an interpreter and included such topics as Communi sa,»
-., Pegeonal History, vulnerability to blacknail, and Gascciation with ;
-~fatelligence organizetions, At the request of the Case Officer, |
po iect was also asked specific qvestions about using "var names"

Tere charts do not indicate eay deception to questions pertain:

ing to the above copies,
|. On 22 Boceaber 1961 Subject was initially polygraphed at which
Gime the polygraph Examiner stated that Subject was conceal: -
formation ia the following areas: =: ieee ing in

Us, Past atteapts to blechmtl subject,

: As @ consequence ef the techafcal findings, the po! oa
Bueniner voccumended that Subject not be polygaphed coele ae Al |

© SECRET

| bes Soree Ht

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use O)
“Do Not Reproduce



oe

political Guganination? Aneveri Me,

~ SeeRE;

such time as he had been debriefed in datail regarding all activities
associated with the above topics. Toscefore, prior to Subject's
recent polygraph test, he was thoroughly debrisfed by[ Frederick oe
Bender @ member of the, CI/Staff at the WAVE station. It is of
interest te note tk. Hendelion"a) impressions of Subject which ex-
Plained rather cléarly the maké up of the man and why he had so b
wach difficulty during his first polygraph test. (Pr. Hendersoa
clared tat Subject's verbal expreseion is poor and algo that bas
@n extromoly difficult time witing. Subject lecks the ability to
concentrate for any length of time on one subject and aleo has trouble
in conceiving actual time and space fectors. In addition, Subject ¢
had a difficult time understanding the questions on the PRQ. Further<
Gore Subject did not understand the principle of the polygraph ia-
Steunent curing the first test©')ite. Honderson) ataced that the Subject
had no ides that the instrument msasured physiological changes to
questions which Subject associated with his background.

Buring the debriefing, Subject denied that there had boen any !
past attempts to blackmail him, that he lied about his personal history
etatezsats, that he wes formerly sympathetic to Communism, or that he
hed ascociated with political organizations other than those already |
know to us. However, on the topic of arreste, Subject declared that

dhe wae arrested twice under the Batista Regime and detained once under

the Castro Regime, Subject declered that his first arrest occurred
Soward the end of 1952, Subject steted that at that tims he was site|}
Sing in a barber shop in Hevana vhen a plain-clothes man heard him |
Giscussing the regina in uncomplimentary terms, Subject declared
thet ested, taken to the sacond police station in Havana, |
end kept overnight, questioned tn the morning and released. Subject |
etated that his second arrest waa on the lith of Ame 1956 when he
weat to Havens from the mountains of Escanbray with a message. Having
gettes off at the Onafbus Station, it turned out thet all persons
@zxiving et the stetion were picked up, arrested and interrogated. ~
Be etated that he was able to explain his way out of the arrest and )
was identified and therefore was reloasad. Subject related that he
was deteined by Castro's militia at te tins he we trying to escape
Geen Cubs, however, it turned out that the militia wae looking for -
@nether Cubsn end consequently, Subject was released. During poly-
Graph testing, Subject was asked the following specific questtonst

1. Beotdes the Kscenbray froat, axe you a nesber of any othes
a

SeCRET

aac ant aiblis, ai sanmieeagunal ona at

i
t



Sate ea SEuHEI
i 2. tava you sez Seen @ evaber of the Cuban Commmtat Party? :
1 Answert to i

3. Do you have a secret mecns of commnication with any Com
wunict otelligence Sexvice? Answer: Ho.

&. Axe you presently receiving any money from any Commist I be
- Tatelligence Organization? Answers No. - Bs 3

i
Have you boen assigned a secret cods name by eny Castro : i
Pasitigeaee ee saevice? Answer: Bo. ! H

6. Have you intentionally falsified any of the Personal Bistory,
Statements that you have given us? Answers Yo.

me 7. ‘axe you now being blockualled? Answer: Yo.

6. Wore you exronted aoce than tuice by the Batiste Reginat Va
Anever: Bo.

» Wore yeu detained more then once by the Cuban Regina? “T2
dagwer: Hoe “

ww, Pid you tell us the troth about your encape from Osbat
Answer: Yes.

Me Hove you over weed the wor nsue iinolito? _ Answor! Fo.
12, Hsve you ever used the war nane Prank? Answer? Tia.

Have you over used tho wer nave Flaviot Ansver: No.

