# 104-10431-10062

## Page 1

1104-10431-10062

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

185504

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 2:

SECRET

21

ROUTING

41

51

16

#TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM HELSINKI

ACTION, SR 7

INFO WE 5. 0, 0/0P5, 0/102, FR

Nave

SECRET 171420Z

DIR CITE HELS 2681

REDWOOD

10

fer

Commissar

REF CHELS 2661 (IN 68087)

17 SEP. 64 IN 7 5 9 6.3

1. AT INVITATION OF FELIX DMITREYEVICH KARASEV (201-736991),

CLASTONBURY AND NEW AMERICAN VICE CONSUL HARRISON SHERWOOD HAD

LUNCH WITH KARASEV AND VIKTOR VLADIMIROVICH TARATUNKIN (201-330231)

ON 14 SEPT. DATE OBVIOUSLY SET UP TO FEEL OUT SHERWOOD, WHO SPOKE

FINNISH WITH TARATUNKIN, THEIR ONLY COMMON LANGUAGE.

2. KARASEV PROPOSED HE AND CLASTONBURY GO ON A "DU" (INFORMAL YOU?

BASIS. WE ACCEPTED AND FOLLOWED THROUGH WITH TARATUNKIN. SHERWOOD

PROPOSED SIMILAR TREATMENT AND WAS NOT REFUSED THIS HONOR", ALTHOUGH

IT APPEARED SOVTS WERE NOT PREPARED FOR THIS.

, 3. CLASTONBURY MADE TWO WAGERS ON THE OLYMPIC GAMES WITH ABOVE

SOVIETS WHICH WILL NECESSITATE TWO DRINKING PARTIES. A THIRD

for FOlA

PARTY IS EXPECTED WITH BIRTH OF TARATUNKIN'S CHILD IN NOVEMBER.

4. KARASEV SAID HE GOING ON HOME LEAVE TO SOCHI FOR ONE MONTR

ON 19 SEPT THUS CORROBORATING HIS WIFE'S REMARKS REPORTED IN REF•

Review on'UL 1976•

IN QUIET CONVERSATION, NOT OVERHEARD BY TARATUNKIN, KARASEV STARTED

TO TELL US ABOUT HIS FEELINGS ON FRIENDLY RELATIONS. REMARKED THAT

IT WAS UNFORTUNATE TSAR NICHOLAS II COU

CROSS FILE GOAX T0R

NOT KEEP UP WITH TIMES

201-289248

DO TO DESTROY

701-

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING DEFICE IS DOAHIRITEN

GROUP I

dudod from autor

bungrading and

declassificarion

No

Document Number

---

## Page 2

13-00000

voo dauLtIsed tile.

• Number

3k2

TOF EASHED MESSAGE iS docum

SECRET

IN 25963 PAGE

AND THEREBY SET RUSSIA BACK FOR MANY YEARS. WE AGREED NICHOLAS

HAD BEEN A FOOL, THEREBY REMOVING ANY MONARCHIST CONSIDERATIONS

HE MAY HAVE HAD ABOUT US, AND ENCOURAGED HIM TO PROCEED. IN APPRE-

CIATIVE WORDS KARASEV PRAISED AMERICA'S HELP IN THE THIRTIES

WHICH PUT, THE USSR ON ITS FEET. HOPED THAT SIMILAR COOPERATION

COULD: NOW BE ENGINEERED TO HELP THEM WITH THEIR PRESENT DAY ECONOMIC

DIFFICULTIES. CONTRARY REMARKS OF MANY PEOPLE, KARASEV SAID,

HE REALIZED THEIR AUTO INDUSTRY, FOR EXAMPLE, COULD NOT BEGIN TO

COMPETE WITH OURS AND MANY EVERY DAY ITEMS WE ENJOY ARE LUXURIES

TO THEM. WISHED NO WAR WOULD COME BETWEEN US SO THEY COULD

WORK AT BETTERING THEIR LIVING STANDARD. WE REPLIED WE APPRECIATED

HIS VIEWS BUT COULD NOT UNDERSTAND WHY USSR CONTINUES ITS ANTI

AMERICAN PROPAGANDA IF THEY TRULY DESIRE OUR SYMPATHY AND HELP.

KARASEV SAID THAT. THIS NOT TRUE. THEY NOT WAGING PROPAGANDA WAR

WITH US.: SO ENDED OUR FRAGMENTARY CONVERSATION ON THIS TOPIC.

5. TARATUNKIN BROUGHT UP OUR "PROVOCATION" IN TONKIN BAY.

SHERWOOD OUTLINED OUR POSITION.

6. KARASEV DISCUSSED OSWALD CASE AND ASKED OUR OPINION. WE

SAID THAT WARREN COMMISSION'S REPORT WOULD SOON BE OUT WITH ALL THE

FACTS, BUT PERSONALLY WE HAD SOME RESERVATIONS AS TO WHAT REALLY

HAPPENED TO OSWALD DURING HIS STAY IN THE USSR. KARASEV CAUGHT

THE IMPLICATION AND REPLIED THAT THIS WOULD HAVE BEEN POSSIBLE. IF

OSWALD HAD BEEN IN CHINA BUT NOT IN THE SOVIET UNION. HE SAID

OSWALD HAD ONLY BEEN A DILETTANTE IN MINSK AND APPARENTLY HAD SOME

OTHER WOMEN THERE BEFORA 3 .448ED• KARASEV THEN SAID HE COULD

NOT HELP BUT BELIEVE THAT RUBY WAS TOOL OF "REACTIONARY FORCES"

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CLASEIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 75963 PAGE 3

AND COULD NOT SEE HOW IT COULD HAVE BEEN POSSIBLE FOR RUBY TO HAVE

SHOT OSWALD WITHOUT ASSISTANCE OF SOME U.S. OFFICIALS. WE TRIED

DEBUNK THIS IMPRESSION, BUT KARASEV HELD TO HIS VIEWS.

SECRET

!

SINFO.

ON ACTIVITIES AT PARTY

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

(

mall, m's Sint thit 9 dict nch feel

paro 6 / in 15963 need be sent 8

Commissi

was in deing a head been pabliged

---

