‘¢-onnng + +
104-10163-10144, | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

DO? RECORD MATERIAL

1. THIS DOCUMFNT 1S CHARCED TO YOU.

2 RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO IP/ARCHIVES,
RM GA-5S0, ON OR BEFORE DATE INDICATED.

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER
INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION 4598

—_

00 NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

18M 1790 use enevros eorrins.

2 QD

Please return this reference
hat IP/ARD/PSU immediately after

EE NL ETI TEER an

ra

i sierra

f.

=—

'S. peTURN TOs

eames

SE ONLY

cavemen estimate ine tater ane 2

1¥/ARD/PSU GA-50 i | B2 IMPDET CL BY: 062147
Se Gia ase" C) secney  () comFIeNTIAL BEAL) umeuassieres.
Pll tee i mass

fie



"CS" RECORD MATERIAL

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.

2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO RID/ARCHIVES &
DISPOSITION SECTION, KM GE-S8, ON OR BEFORE
DATE INDICATED.

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER : .
INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL ieeiiaiaae berarrrererrereerararar!

00 NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

TR 179e vee emeviows enero.

coh
» ELbbr ID

 pp/aneniwes
RM £eE-SS

ot Bsa we

= qa seceer C) CONFIDENTIAL «GSA



bessaieassiar ©

So 9

withered mpegs
Belgien, took part in the Spanish civil war on side of the REDS, 2695/44
After Franco's victory he escaped to France from where, after thell/11/44
occupation, he got over illerally, threuvh Spain, to Portugal. The
Portuguese police arrested him and placed him in Caxias prison on

the charge of having contucta with varioun international Communicts.

He was a former employee of the French 1.8, anid was aotive in that
capacityAn Karseille during the war. Subjeot ae a hare

nd way arrested there. after paying 12,000 Es
ONE

a friend of a friend of a certain Ce:

FA
-PYDE poifee, he left prison, He worked for GOK
aria dated 1/9/41, he was again arrested by the Portuguese police

ané placegfin Peniche prison. 7
oja a

<prsvoy .
#394 0

;
i
bua i



Li wal

—_
CronornveD |
‘yu 68 1962

: waco. SER

om J) Tal S thes poled
: Ei bats Fare esnek, Yredg detnel,

tlie STN COaratee OL4 das t | oes
The folowing list of names wns compiled from the WATTEL report . guy t

; With few exceptions (noted in the text), the information on each person (ribet
{ fe substantially WATTEL'S own comment, colored by his prejudices end Aah

: tatlored here and there to fit his role of double agent. It is prob- z of

ably fll of errors and falsehoods.

sbincasasantaseis

i

4 WATIEL orde these contacts Letween the months of Deceaber, 1942,

t and Bepteaber, 1943. ney are numerous and varied, renging from hotel

t chesberseise to San intimate friend of Ssalaser'se®. Some of tnese people

i - be employs, seny of tren use bia; snd he is, or wes, paid by alls by us,

a by Whe Gornens, and in services, pernazs even in money, by the Free French,
‘the Vichy French, end the Lisbon Police. The result wes inevitable; on
Gepteaber 18, 1943, we severed 01] connections with his, rs

3

a sand! a ZA 7” _ a

EE 7)
NaS, ran Bootedae Parmacention /,,, Farkaal

Meicht, 1.70 0.3 weight, 64 kgs.3 brown hair and blu, eyes; age Meo
Byesks no foreign languages. Hee e common-law wife, Antoinette/Lneraine, “y
end o small deughter, in France. 7 ee

C7

‘ 6ecs pet BRO

According to British raqprte, subject was born in Parivjen 225. 192
1907. Claims to nave been a /stock Paria before tie wor; yrob-
able worked for the 2e Buresu. During the war wos atta: Mine
Astry of Agriculture, through the influence of Gueille. In 1940 he was
fn southern Frence, then went into hiding in Toulouse, for unknown reasons.
Be has n-ver explained satisfectorily the large sums of money which he had
4n hie possession when he finally escaned to Barcelona on September 5, 1542,
end thon to Lisbon, where he cpeaod aa acscumt sith the Dance Cauie @
Gottoumior, Subjest ariived in Portugal with a Nicaraguan passport, yet
Profesaed to be & Belgien. He was errested October 21, anc reicased from
prison eis wooks later with the help of Noronha; was then engaged by the
Gornan Iot«iligence service. Later, he elso worked for us, through Gorlier.
Bubdject Lived for a tine at the Hotel Rosa, Caldes de Rainha, then the
Hotel Rureya, Lisbon. Next, he moved to No, 27, rua Actor Isidoro, greund
floor) right. He hue alco lived on the rua Trombeta. Subject wis ro-
errested, apporently as @ communist agent but very probsbly at the in-
etigation of the Britizh, on July 31, 1943, and lodged in Aljube prison.
When 1st heerd from, in Septezder, he had been released, was bearer of
@ Geruen peasport, and ned been promised by the Germans the job of couter
on the Tangler-Liston vuns

trl fer PISO
pees ZY ee Ae tity «1 LYS

a
i
8



wi - wae
iT ¥ a
St as
Acaises ds Ratnns, 62a :
| Described by tne British es *our Rumanian cliont in Celdne.*. Carlier, 7 :
of the Pree ee Yorcea, Tatrodiced WATTEL (Bis In Deeeuter, uz, and 5
asked bi 6 be of halp to WATTEL.
ee et: Fr berak
Ex-Captein of the 83 * adorts.« Portuguese shiv which
is cogienbead totes etait’ ty tare

5 ‘ore ‘wee’ gunk. “te ves recruited by Quitters, ase “ ‘i *
: L, 7 7 ary “ae
: Capt) Jore Correia dt (O1iveirat} G4. Hor a

~~ "gnapector of the Liston Police and *rignt era? of on teporteat Police
Coptein, fe To = » hes brown hair, a ruady fece end
tne beibdbeprerrrt Bectonsd

: heavy build. fraveis eo lot in taxis and is know to fre.uc
% a ‘the Bar Iuperiel. Both Wettel ond Horonhe speek of ola 6
: of the Gerpsags he is seid to be the hea beng =
thet de in Gerasi ‘and is in the perticular good graces of tna Coste
‘arrest of Loureiro, in the "Portuguese Pesaport® cace, Hattie. atelem, vas
for the purpose of getting informstion sbout the French Compunist oggialsetion
for the -. His known agents, Lesides Wettol, ere -Victor Cota and : ;

Paul ‘da. Cunho, meets his agents at Noronhs's,.usually. aroun: 7 yee HO
‘unde good use of Wattel after securing his relecse from jajy ip Deceaber, 1942,—<—7 ~.
‘ epploying his in the Lourairo cxse, as cut-out in ott. Outacts, @ ozent a Pasaaae
provocateur at Aljube Prison, i: August, when Lute Pires wae put in Wettolts | eal
| cell, and to-introduce him to the santcurist ut the Palace Hotel. seeriLieterress
H re Paiste Viaiey :
SAE 7 et

the Vichy Legation. In Hy, Ostins gave e farewell diner im nis eaten
7 Lene hae openly declared that he would contact the Americans in Madrid;

. Eesh poraiag,-<< on coe
formetion from Pascoal \PEXEIRA, aight

6 Violentiy pro-German and a carries:
snghophilas in his pocket.

a

(Asseaut) CT. Faauts ?

Other sources report, subject to be a Vich; 1» doing oe;
Tore. for_Shu Germanas Ts believed to neve boom Se aeenie ee
fy ften seen with Irmengert da Costa. Police Capt. ‘d*Oliveira
Feosived « report aubject from his agent, Pent de Cunha. Ancther source
Foporte thet a Frenchuaa by this nese is believed to have received 15,900
escudos from Bettel. Only trace of such & san is the report, dated wey, 1741
of o Col. Arceau,. en ex-Governcr of the French colon! who was Qnti-Vichy, penniless
* ond ready to serve anywhere, but was not to be trusted.

Laditheg Semete oto

of
:

pow



i
i

Serge eee

fae : aa
SES Cuben Coneul-Censral) <7 Ae. fo7

ae

formeriy sas in the ensloy of tne Cutep Conmuete ta neces. he pent,

25 esatlie a Jal Yor Sontag Ya eae ee maa BOT Scroats sue ove

Bia cortein dollar checas. Subject soft for Cute, vis Swain, ca Jenusry 25,
1943. Hie eccrese 10,‘Estreda Paine

401 Vitore, Havant, Cone, ile corress
Hone ohth abs motor oid Tiree Ia bes uss ea Seles He
Reve. . Ot. Lemarsase

originy fe

Of Rusenten s
Vettel, he looks 1iké an Intorse tone} Stock. Ho

to
Cyuatects witn te Gere
jy and Some connections with Cat. Corvelho Nunes. ‘ence
ing (tele S202). Wea a guest at tie cisner verty given by Pangele
ct br. 4 :
Aaorer dex; duas wnesee nt ALL
: oct Dot -wSGe
: J ego Sl. Tn contact with the dermis s vith,
one Re ta Portugal. Lrmengert de Conta is his eneistant.
tt: Patel pen Pitt
er
: Booond Poarrector® (runner) at the Hotel wetro e“Gubjoot reneives to~
* formation’ from Julio, runner © ‘oe+ Euroa where tie airaea of tue Britich
Commercinl Airlines ey, peeses it on to Cueresaa, aignt porter of the
Ketropole who, in turn, gives it to the Germans mien they Btop by for it esck

Subject worked at the Hotel Franofort, Roesio, for Reny yeeros. Claine
whe ioglogbtley bit wilt do onything for soney.

BABADES (or Parades) s
the Freach Logatioa.. Priate toloptone: 61391. Sentacts tie

at Frrligal i
ae a Dtwhe f :
Met Noronha in prison. Told hia of « Lifed jo Of which hs wes.
8 neabor, that bridges 15 the event event ors Gerson ine f

This infcraation cag not reveried at tue tlie; Norcahe Fepea
Police. Subject was oriled to Portuguese Africa and imprisoned.

BERGE (or Redop) :

4 friend of Noronha': Te either 6 sesber of a Gerasn firm er connected
With the Portuguese Air Havigation Co.

te to thed:

rn

'

j
4
a



s4-ochoo

ad

aa

“0

Aavenide “tace pote, Lefn-, Farhi nal

i f
gE a nan uf ae : rn
‘BEAVIMISTE, goewues (Keasol E Earv ke rsre es Palit oe

AAS run do Bente wartacl— les 4 ta: vane Dow nse

According to a British report, subject is a Portugusse of. Preach origin:
a Jou, sdout 32 years old, whe hrs lived all his life in Frence. Uettel vont
4d sen him upon arriving in Liston and wien Hettol ers arrested, subject put
Soronhs in touch with him. Subject was i: stocking busine:
ez has is now, in his om words, engaged in *petites afeiros® in Lisbon.

Professes to be yrocirhbhsbe
BRESREELD, Pr. 4
Was Wettelts piysician during his illness in Bay. :
& ett Daas? @ prach ba [few oh ey lithesae
44 = Ge: tet, 4 ben
a0 (SIP PAE ae a
\/ 26 probebly an officer and 1s//said, by some, "
do Lus, Bettel’s mietress, says thet he ie en Austrisn Jew, given the title
7. ° for services rendered his country, end is under the immediate
erders of Colonel Schaidt. She states, further, that he has e business in
Efedon and drives CD car Ho. 14402102. Subject ts about 45, 1.75 a tell,
of heavy build, with light hair and blue cyes. He has a high forehecd and
thin mouth, His expression in energetic: when angered, he must be ferocious.
Gubject described American Inteliigence Service to Wattel anc geve hin com
plote list of personnel. Wented Wattel to sork on the Americens and the =
Gaullist movenont in Prence, in perticuler. Subject inter- :
dn August and hed Wattel reieased
» he showed he had no illusions about —,

i
a
f

port rés. {oh Tutailigerce andthe Portuguens-SecratSereion,
fed Wattel to the polico. ~ g

Sonetine in Kay, subject's nome wes pronounced, in Wettel's presence, by
SBigthief® who ssked his acsistant (Guittard?) Af he hed received "the



Avian!

i at: tial?

Been mmne, compeny at the cafes in Celdas én Reinke.

Borcenanyy.
Room 7h, Avenids Palace Hotel at
Be Le know as Kreelte fright ore®.
‘Sara:
Peateleria (fe?) ALTANCA - Noronha mot Wettel or irs. Liste here ot different
Cafe ARGENTINA - buck of Restaurant Portugal, Rossio = Batiol has eaten here.
_ ‘GAMROUTERIE VRLICAIOE - Wattel lunches here end receives teleshone calls.
* @afe"do CHIADO - Here, Wattel, Noronhe and Cant. dAlneide set in arch,

Cafe CRIETsL - Prequented by Horenha. fle hee been seva hore with several
~ people, end ence slous with an [telisn.

Bar - SUPEREAL - = Waviel, Woronhs and Cert. d’Almeida met here twice in April.
7 fete BACTOHAL - = Freguented by Capt. dtslmeids

~ ‘Cafe BICOLA - Another meeting place for Noronha end his contacts.

‘Cafe (Rosteurcat) PORTUGAL, Roseio - Wattel and Loureiro met here April ist.
{WORE Bor = intenty Foateo, agent for Guittard, often seen here.

FRA Fou, rue do Almonds - Frequented by the "Big Chief*.

QIVOLE bur - In May, Bartel ordered to watch en Italian diplomat, ¢ good
‘eustower of this ber, reported to be working for the Ancricens.

‘VACCARIA AUREA, rua Crucifixo ~ A hang-out of foreign sailors and a fevorite
_ of Gusresna'e, porter at the Hotel Metropole.



14-fo00

bien reeet UE ony et blastn

Tait
Aovording to a,Britiah report, subject is ‘ Laws
infcaldes ey ey his wistress, Josezhine ¥PMceye;e Relgien,

were considered by the Gersans for omploynent as eyente, but were turned dora,
Bubject compleine of! unfeir BeTtish ter twente We be connected with
ebady deaip-'in foreign currencies and precious metels. Is seen with Wattel

fi the géfes in Caldne.

tino Jose Ct! Fact yt e
wnat
Otfinsartal EsSteated in the Stin affeir*. Knows things thet would

conprosise certein people in the United Kingion Corp., and secure his own
welosse. .

GAPE

- Am Bagineer. Telezhoned fron the Avenida Palsce Hotel to 45967, Avenida
$ de Onte bro, 53.

i Is in spas way connected with becnet. Was e cusst at a dinner given
Wy Pangay-th dune.

| : Battelts Doct MAIS suffering from lung trouble in Aljube prison, a
| :  dugast. He is also Mae. Maller's physician.
i
i
&
j
id
\
'
:

» Nour (oaa) ok. Pah Prselht, Balt? Caet-

He disclosed thet Wattel was arrested at the request of the Britishy
eked tha’ ke information be trested as confidentie.. eh informed
Police that Wattel was bearer of false passports, end that he was o communist,
Gonsorting with Terechenko, Dr. Gile, Groabergh end Hons. Clerea. Subject
ateted Wattel would be relecsed if Americens requested it end provided big
with moans of leaving couctry.

ect: Fame cee
Both the British and the Gerssns sore interested in subject and eager

: : . ret 4. tobe
i SSpbereatetive SP foe Peench Bublect Le Eoarngs Mists Weieaddy to watved,

Lo



t-

tine wanted to beve him sent
ploaneires paul de Cunns,
for Capt. atoliveire.
4. correscondences
Regarding Leake from sul je4
Canna, tg secretery, Bi eS to prortinals accusing ner of
devalging jaforantion to Oliveise wre, Cireugh 5 = augh aVAlne ida, pessed it on the
Ot: plernh jeesiten, nn Levien cstsatae .
Sate CHET Hb eleeged re Oe :
Ai hes

ee a ooh hit

——" ote.
25 es pone STO, ran cae & Ors

ot does not
to photoste
sed not Peal de

i
goffice, Unttel ble

elegate; he arrived in June. In August, British fe
one eh, Moitels

Gencrol Gireuits a
peer tae tie police Bp ct Fp one of tne suaphete

Pos 2 quest at the dinser given by Penge in nee.

tue *tin affolree Involved
for ceria rosie? mays of he Port=
aonrt to beve sosetuing to offer in 40uteai> for nie
Ie re in con! sith the Gersnbe
Pek,

. Ailes Tay Fan de Palaes

Budject works for Qaittard.
Atine circlese

eoptemge in ere
soos ;

i erent, ent fonneter of rouniet Oats WL TAME Lo do
{ieercatesas pater: fn the event of & Qermn invesics. ‘Lied ap 6 result of J08e
rer Pinta’ indiscretions an » and Boronhes petrayel to tie Polieds i



+ 8he 19 frecuently seca tn :

Fxsi

weeny oF Wear ircen uy *. ‘RLnorking for Vichy. i
7, ee us: Pr Ziad fr we ted fie Pakerine CES t

In yn apeta, wes believed to be the Generel Sse of the "Secours :
: Rouge® in Frenee; is reverted to neve revented the acres cf tho Frenc:. end
Portuguese connected with this organizstion to Capt. Josecn Correle Gtalaeica :
Of the Police, whose informunt 10 becene. Recekycd funds from-Aioelca to este :
and with Amer{crns who were eceking s toat in
clandestinely to Gibreitrry Peceived funds from : .
nTounss sid to sreek his vengesnce on 5
Vettel whom he eccused cf denouncing Louretro, ‘Tricé to yet Goriierte clerk ;
ean fnvite Bottel to lunch to » restaurent where he couid be photogri:iede

Btapidly broke with Almeida on Way 5 and wes arrested, Distributed >ropagenda

i
: ie
fs | ate ma ae
— 26 cv
An Azericen,; torn Postosbur 1523; hy at opel (wnpe,2) and believed te eee if
“Ye beerer of sussport No. 3, issued 3/14/Z. vy tne Americen, Conacizte General, q
LAebon. Whemp Wattel first mot subject, wee-wriee ne was waiting for his pase i
port which wes et Hiccen (Jewish Relief Committee). It was Horonhe's plan to 4 , {
have subject marry an “fgredeble wonan® fros: Puris, who would thus obteln Aver= i t
floan citisenshiz. Subject ep,eers to nave been in prison soue tine in April,
+, for on April 29, he let Wattel know that he had been released.
ef In gherge of the information service at the French h Leratton, Lisbon.
fate Peul da'Cumhs for a time.

fi mriane te 0d: Paki of
Hi Hersh Se
- Reon 53, Avanide Palece Stal

See

"gm June, phoned Fun Ordtaxe at the Hotel Tivolf.


R, Consu: ered (see Eugenio a is t

Wes seen at Noronhaty office in Jrpuery, $ Februrry revort tells of
3 kilos of Digitaline, ssucgled into the courtry by *r Epnieh diplomst from

a t —e wes trying to sell.
‘emit pew gg CT OnTia af

Is en agent of the Portuguese Secret Sersice. He norved with the Foreign .
Wegion in Fronce. After the wer, he worked for e tise in the Prench Legetion
fn Listen, in the inforsetion service under de Creuse Geverncr Chete. be-

friended him and induced Wettel to cet him e job. lorked at the tie:
Lacetion but was discharged ufter one week for onpitinse ates
DIMETRESCO (Dazetresco)

Hew 6, Avenica Reaseno Garcia, Ground fl., right. Tel: 51765
, Wes ¢ guest ot a dinner given by Pengel. :
BL : cee Pere
Fo. 43, rus Joequin Antonio d*aguiar, 4th right. ia
“Feerlein phoned hin, in June, from the Avenids Palace Hotels
Rowe #68, Avenivs Palace Bote.

oriy in dune, subject telephoned to Cerlos Hinterer, Macrid 17764.
Alto proned Hans Brandes and Douasen.

Vepoena tons CH; bern. any ; és
Avo. 17, rua arques de Bubserre, 4th floor, Zola Ce Ligel

7 Both he end Guittard were believed, in May, to be working for tne
ms SBeabury Sarvieero a. At, Prada, An /

oo Myzyp, pane mstegorten ect Leese da

Besrer of Geraen possport Bo. 1643, fred denuary 15, 1943.

i

felephoned

—s


e -lo- 7 :

H hia Legation repeatedly on May 27, 1943. Believed to have had a large sum
‘ noney_Seposited t te his account in 4 Portuguese benk.

'

i

May, to be a member of the Intelligence Service, Although
for the British: —Ke en Ytalion and © Prieas of the Itel-

i ons she Wes considered a double agent. :
Ct: bere :
a

Gn June, phoned to 61872, rua B.Zoso da Unta, 117, from the Avenida ©
Palace WA
i . iw : Sooeanet

Deughter of Jean Loy, of Bofina. Guest st the farewell dinner given ty  ‘**
Ostine of the Vichy Legation on May 27, for the dtauade family. . ;

“

: Probably from Nice; about 1.75 m. tall; dull complexion end carries hiz- .
Gelf in @ peculiar manner. Works for the German Intelligence Service. Cane +
- @specially from Paris in June to contact Wattel, to get him to re-establish aan e
hie connections with former colleagues of tie 2e Bureau, now working in the

French "Secret Army". Pee

Contacted Noronha on April 19. Had beer. in Portugal 7 months. He is
ebout 32, has o large mouth, pointed nose, dark brews beir and sunken cheoks,

ar oe

|, Avenida Palace Hotel : ain at

A Gepean, On Sure 10th, telephoned to the German Legation, 63170, and
tne Minister, 6447. see

.  _fiubject reorted to the Police by the British ag one of the suapiatous sr
wen in contact with Wottele we 7


Hy In July was arrested with Wattel, and others, by tua P.Y.D.E., soporently i -
i a att of en *anti-Bolshevies® drive. British, in August, re, ed subject:

ee fea in contect with Wattel. ie
Nbr roltertYhw) Ct. Jean cre ete
J {

; Dee :
A 8 re sentative in Lisbon, thieffices in the British Babessy. is
Froa other sources we leern tic was the intermediary sqvakte-Wattel

end the Americens. ‘fne British report tret Wottel went to see Goriier upon
Gricon in Decenber 1942, and told of the offer he hed received .

fron the Germans. Wattel states that subject receives collaborationivts who
~Fretend to be deGaullists and that one of his (Wattel's) first ngaoe for F
Gorsans:was to steal from subject's office te dossiers of seeders 2
transit through Lisbon. There ere leaks from subject's office to Pores

Binletry of Foreign Affairs.

They were guosts on Hay 27 at the farewell dinner given by Cetins of
the Vichy Legetion for the d*Amade fantly.

tat the dinner given by Pangel in Sime. Ie married.

hs!

1 col’ b Other sources reveal
or a price, helped to secure a Ravicert
Mrs. Popysr, closely connected with

jer, io his mistress. He kept writing to Gorlier to inquire about
fattelts requent visits, and nes been behind cost of tne plots against Fattel
for ho knows the latter is watching him. Wettol states thet srocy passports
issued by.subject is reported to Gerssns, Suvevetenrerser

Xo reported to have been at the Avaaide Peleco Hotel, insogs.te, on
Wey 22. Weithor Wattel nor tn: Britian wore able to identify nia:

Be etn ric Dae cones tent utes cennaneseamattnentin te come en



“ke

BOWEL, AVENIDA PALACE
Room 11 = Paliassi. Rooa 73 - Gerber a
Room 12 - Masaurtein (Hassenstein?) Room 74 = Burekherdt i
Room 41 = Marcel Zelich - Room 118 - Dr. Kreel t
: Room 53 - Merinho de Crus Réos 165 - Simplicio Santos E
: Room 68 - Eberlein aga jie C ‘
1 Other guests: George Biech, Prince ichenlohe, Congtessede Noronhe, _ :
! Believed to be guests: Mne. Lageny, Pencal, Racuet, Kerl » Henriques _ ' i
7 i tou Campelo, Bruno Mayer, Femail Bey | :
Wattel has the hotel watched. One coshier works for toth the Allies end the 4 :
Axio, ‘but the telezhone operstor, in Hay, was in hie pay, reporting t:e French i
and Portuguese mesenyes caly. Wattel had the notel register copied an. the +
ebanberasiss were zaid for the contentsof certsin wastebeskets. | H t
NOTE EUROPA i

‘Yhe eirmm of British Coumercisl Air Lines stop kere.
“Jalio’= the *corrector®, runner
 panecol Pereira ~ night porter

E : ;
Vprste bnvines Alneide - ®correstor®, runner
a Vaneau second *cormectar* ida
: Pa :
[Joue itbotra Quacueun - night porter

MF pause po

rye

Aggested, with Matte) and others Y.¥.D.£-, in Julyy apparently a¢ pert
of oo taatiBolsnevist® drive, ceed

cers



Rows, okt

Jour bey “(resanry? \ r
> Egyption Minister. He conducts hia business froa the Avenide Peleco

Hotel. He is now more careful of his speech end of bis *conquesta". In

August, he eaployed Paul d@ Cunha, upon Wattel's recommendstion, but dismissed
H] bim at the end of @ week |for espionage activities. i ae

© JORGR, for George)
39 rua Misericordia

Wattel wes ordered, in July, to contact « former French officer of the
Qe Bureau named *Jorge*, living here. Another source states Jorge
may be SGoorge®, our "no. 14", whose office is et this addre i
duo © *

°corrector® (runner) et the Rotel Zuropa where the airmen of the British
fel corn stay. Passes on his information to Bele, runner at the

a . : ie Pati ga
- ya ws Wo. 15, ruy‘dos Panquéiros,’ 5th floor.

*

or gt Age 4 | eee ie i.
wi ( Big zehi.ioh) eet ie acidey Hite ‘
‘wa ixeptert) oak .) g Ciief*, Warcel Zehliah bien tal 7 : .
aD Eispestof Benersl of Qemaop-Iatalisaseca postce, . Travels on o Turkish i
passport; seid to have been born in Turkey tut ies Germen nationality. From .
Lisbon, returned to Budapest. Wattel eays he sey be the "Big Chief® for the {

description fite; about 51 and fairly heavy. With Quittard, wee instigator t t
@f the Zattel wission to seise the machines on the Britieh planes et Sintra.

"* OUALENARD, Count (000 Kownleoky)

Ie mrried, Wasa query at the dinner eiyen by Sangs) tn dune, &
Seo. Pauiseg-phoned 46 Hise y
eas ie

Polish Intelligence Services’ ‘aft wanted Hattel, sho hed found
a way to approach hig, te give hin the plotures of tue 12,000 surdered Polish officerse

encpmpunannipnmnaen vere * ‘ 7

pone

3



oo i y
al po
KREEL (or) of REEL (believed to be the sane) a i

Room 118, Avenide Palace Hotel

‘ oc’ .

: Subject is Princess Auelia‘s leuzer. His present activities, hovevere {
H have little to do with nis profession; ne vere) to te we Rue _ os. -

L Atical secti: ence. He ppointed upon Knefper's

errivals ‘in constant touch with Lis Legation, but his inatructions meter
: _ Ghee divectiy from the central service, When tne "hig Chief see in Lisboa, :
i subject was seen in bis company. Burckhardt io his right ore"; be eonfers ie
1 with *prits®; Oatine, of the Vichy Legation, wh quest ie wos at the fere- .
| + well dinnor for d'éuade, ie 'under his orders end sees him dail: Bubject. :
\

: fp married and spends his ‘week-ende et Ville Belle, Bstoril (Tels 6u8), & east :
house known te be reated to,e Geraan ecuple and used &: & seoting-placo. 3 be

- — SAGEHL, Madane 3
Frou the Avenida Palace Hotel,. in June, phone 62684 - Conde Chendelki, :

Betoril 426 - Kowaisaih, S1OLL - Eétoril 326 = Polish Legation, 6195 =
Rumanian Legetion, 62193 - Hhngarian Legation, 45629.
i

¢ . aes 1
> SATOUR : 4 i

‘" gy duportent msn in France, an officer of th Legion of Honor, whose : ‘

enti-Senitic campaign hed geined him many eneaiet He thought Wattel was

€5 eaiscary fron Algicrs and trusted hia because Kus. de Noronha had vousned
: for him. Wettel end Chatel both urged him to contact Monnier, and Wettel
“" percuaded bin to sttead Qptiats fareweli dinner for dtAnace, of the Vichy

4

tion. in /

A

wdited advises egeinst contacting his; states that subject may te
leanjng tovard the Brifish or le nay be eoting under orders fren Chet) cr

" Gorxier. His pos}tiod 1s not et all clear.
WA
SA ga STE :

In Juze wa: intersated with Wattel in getting sone aerchandise into
Spin. ceeeen au



‘LICENSE PLATTEN :

(COP) cor Wo. HE 10-20 parked at Ncror:0!s door te registered ia
the nae of Holoagt Rotert, Gerasa Conouler Secretary. i

CD cer Ho. LALo2122

46 to belong to tne "Big Chief, Mattelts
ry

bose lonel Schaidt's . © co
Ra + : a A the
pus, (fra)" (watate de Grecfs wate o Lines8) © Cur ba Tr gob
Wattelts good friend, for sous tine, at least. Wattel sayos °f
dott think tat Mrs. Lines tsa very brizit persva, but oie is weis-bred,
hae good culture, and a very strong vill.* fie cinims to have trained Ler,
to have *norel poser® over ner, and smintelns 6.0 ie a person devoted to
the Allied cause sho has, ndirestizs furalened iaforssih i
Bt Wettel's urging, she met Horonne enc wee qnusced by uin es © Germen
 Wattel insieting, uowerer, tnat she revoel to his ‘the work she did
for the Hesis, Baronha pisnned to send her to Breall, where she bee ap
wnele) while weiting for the visa she was to watch tae British end Americans
fn Listen, Subject speaks French fluently and wee racoasended by Wettel to
@orlier, of Free French Forces, for Africa. Ber sot.er fights with Wattel -
: over money matters.

Januace, Lent.

/ 10 reported to have hed two P.¥.D.B. Tispectors at Oporto, Gangs and ,
fer differing with him end Capt. Oliveirs on politics,

Read of tho organisation thet, forget 2artupiaseaSSscrhs,
© onan! ce lntorner, 10 reported io te A ecapuntots bi
is believed to have been Tinanced oi the Frencn scrmuitet j
deen working for the Allied cause. He & sisboartie courier, treveling
to France every nonth, where te sold the 2stsports to vericus Legations for
the purpose of getting men in end cut of o courtry. In this he wes some-
_ tines aided by bis friend, the Portuguese Consul at Marseiiles. He ouce
offered Wattel 5° pasayorts for 40,000 escudon. When arrested, in April,

"po refused to name the French officials involved, or the printers snd on~

Graver im Lisboa sho had forged the doviments. He adaltted bis coataots



rey Seas
. van
with the Belgiens, however. The organisetion wes botreyed by Viotur Contes”

Bubject 1s uwveriled rs confiding ond talxetive, cut 1a unzieasont ma. He
(sed froa priscn on June 18. i

i tt: be bo gal
A493, ren Scttedace Pires ondom whe ores

§

Het

¢
Bhe 19 pro-German ond ecunected.
» She had beea in Berlin before tne re

Bubject lives in Wattelts apertaent.

i
1
[ ?
ect: gm:
Mungarien by birth but aarried to a Bpenierd, resicent of Lisbon. She
is well-cr: > of middie heigt aud probably a Jewese, Has ae
not e,eak an idiosatic Gera:n; seye French is her :
This source reporte t:.et in Sert- '
yL who was in ,Pisoa. 8:0 cloins
y kvm bia short tine; first heerd of hia throug! ver physiolen, ae
Alves. i >
‘ eh use A
£ : a
i a Aa Avorican_c: teiligence fe) .. Be Hl
@ttracted the attention of toy Germppa_by sbloping redio wraosabtsore $0
‘Tpatele {5 "tha Seisa couche. Eattel was ordered by the ane Chief* to watch a
hin. : : 4
ai : 5 va
Neosenstein?) eu, f 5 ee ‘g
t

Roos Az, Avenide Falece Hotel

j
4

Bodzict is tekiered to be « senber jones Service.
pees totaring bis hotel room miook in & certoin may, seereeniee

pit: Aah 7 4 &,

ape Bae
Believed to be nercia, agent

: Visitor et Horonha’s, who acte ao his intersediary with certain

a firms, Thus,.on fey $, there wes.e meeting in Noronha's office
jaen_ subject, Moronie, a Portuguese business man and an Cricnts?, ake .
y¥ & Japanese, who ‘spoke Portugusse very well. On June 6, whiso



H : -7-

wae in Usdrid, eubject ie knom to have phoned thet alty end told the >ersan
en the wira to sto, everything and old tne docusents, would be going

to Berceione toat. night. Subject nad neny couvercetions wit. Morons u,on
the latter's return from Madrid.

asian

they 4 subject to return to Vichy. "

*

mas
In May, Bettel reported that subject was planuing to get in tosen eth i .
Bigiers where his presence would be welcome, Subject left for Vichy s:.ortly q e
: afterword. 7 - -
: Wattel fen ordered in Juse to contact subject, at Betalha; Governor
| Cnatel hawe introduced hia, Geraene believed, et the Hae, 1 vat

Sy F. ee me
Fetes Ci. dpare aoe : ‘i

Babjoct ts allied to_the doenich royel fantiy) she 10 on Sntinete v
friend of alssarts and 1s very influent: 50 believed to be '
the mistress of Marshel of Finland, and in Jute seked Wsttel to

* gake a _rezcrt for the Mereha. tie nolition) situation In fureze and
+ Wettel, in 4a, says tat Cnatel promised to introducs ais
a ‘Subject, yet elsevnere he states thet he ned wot ser before; throug:

‘

far o. plexts of the French Foreign office. She ned remesbered hin ead
ia : tag round ta

'

dvealds

for his to Latour. Bubject told Wattel, in June, tint ars : 4 a

Lathe secretary at 4 private. showing of govies et the British fucasey. 7
- Monaaial pe) ose nowrto Ct: area £2 GG

yeh 50-954 '

Lo. Howe ader eecdina 98, rus Carvalho ax wanjoh teeter. rights
i. Offices: a Nova do Aloada, #59, 1 fl. : 1

Tus doe ‘Fasgueizos to. 7 } used Cor private meetings

Bubdject ts believed to have given up the rus ds Conceloso office, said
te here conteined @ P.B.Xo1 Tele 25-897.

gresreqene ny



Ww

1s- Hit
Bubject ts a netive of India, He is sliny his fece 1s long and thin, :
the eyca eo itent blue ant Ue complexion reguisr, Wien sacking :2 i008 8

Leng, tnin aluainun cigsrette-holder, He veers nis ret down over his fare- : f
heed and s littie to the left,

i
Both Wattel snd British ogres thet subject recrultsecents for tne
7 el to Fison in”

German Interiixzence Service. He first interviewed Mettel in ri : 7
Ootoder, 149425 charged nim @ fee of 20,00 escudos for n: orse, then | .
Got him to Join tie Gerasn orgenisc tion, uncer ,rossur intetose :

Later, in March, he sisiierly recruited Wottol's £ 1) Mrs. Linas. Bnortly -
aftermord, Le o,pesred greetiy worried by tie actions of tue ,olice eno aud= it
Genly began srrosting Gestapo ¢ gents.

Budject woe reported at a very esrly dete to be interestec in tre cca-
of u:

ie sercial activiti Geracas and to be buying various sreducte for them. .
i . Yn February he was cosaissioned by tie Gerasn Ecbessy to buy 400 tone of : '
i @offes, When it wes reody to bo sui,vod, subject ciaiued to tave sufficieat
' fafluence with Lisbon horbor authorities to errange for the ship's cecerture 1
| withous o Snavicert® end, in April, wnen it was finslly decided to seud this t

eoffee overland to Bpa: @ Gugrerted the flendcort® by a»piied for in
Oporto whore the Allies wore 1. observant. Once, in Wattel's cresence,
he received an urgent cell frome Mr. Hedon (Redon?) and hurried over to Ee
' Bo. 34, Avenida 24 de Julho, the heed office of the Portuguese Air Navigation H
4 Ce. ere, iater, told of neeting members of important Gorgon firus (one

4 +, @riving a CD car No. HELOZO) and discussing with then s natter invelving

| +"), @ommereial docusents tnat was to bring him 100,000 eseudos. Taca, in April,
f

i

be was reported to be! trying to ship 200 tous of whale ofl to Spoin. lirmo

Mayer was s frequent visitor and it is poselbie that subjectts tris to Mecrid :
fm June was on some business errand for this man. Subject often ects a3 in- mas '
Carasdisry for Bayer in his contacts witi “urtuguese firma.
enple, in sudject's office were presents

May 6, for ez ‘ .
Meyer, a Portuguese bininess man, tet
and.en Orisntel, possibly a Ja.eneve, who epoke Portuguese very tall. ia” ‘
June subject usgotiated the ourcher: the Gernans, of a product colied”
Rosenbusch’ Ho. lamtt « i)
to te deliverait at . 1

planned to recova
© cargo of cacso from a Portuguese shi, in the Trgus, substitute a false

i

i

[ : cargo, insure it with a Gerass firm, then have the ship souttied wnile en
t : Ep

i

i

igo, in transit for Switserle:

route to Baha.

“Subject sppeers to naye been in prison in Yebrusry, but ehether this .
Was a © prisoner hinsolf, or es lege aid to prisoners, the rs,crts do not ‘ :



, oe.

wake clear, In origon he hoerd e¢ certaia Jore Eatésta tell of a nro-Ailied
group that plenned sebots;'e tn tre event of 6 German invasion, Wuttel re-orts
that subject revealed thie informtion t:. the colice, which resulted in tae
arrest of Jose Batesta, Conces, and otners. He is resorted to «ave also net
in prison a certain Eugenio‘Ascue, a Cuben uncer detention for dealing in
contraband, and to have given him some dolier checks, Subject is a friend
Of Capt. Jove Cerreia d'Aimeica of tie Porice and is often see in his coa-
peny. Was involved in the Capteints errest of Loureiro in ta *Portaguece
Pessport® case. Subject wanted Rattel to contact Dévid Costodio, a young
Avericen expecting to return to tie United States sid once esxed his to
@pproach @ certain young man of 20 who sold lace in tne streets. 7

In March, subject was visited by @ ;roup of Frenchaen, one of whos is
, delleved to be so sember of the Legetion; end eno! wos seen at

Frenchsan
Ris office on April, 19. Subject calls several tines « week ot tne Brasilien
Babesoy. He is frequently observed at tne Cave Cristal, usually with two or
three others, but sonotiaes with en Italian, He is often in tie comsany of
32, Travesse io Cabrel, or coated with yet anctner,

. Wattel had subject followed on his trip to Madrid, to try to pin ca
him the charge of smuggling noney, but was unsucceusful. In anotner report
thet is not at ell cleor, Wattel claims tnat sudject was counected witn some

. thing, or sosneone, celled "Anericsa Joint® for se noticed a statement of
17,000 escudos. |

Stak, in his description of sudjectts office, potats out, thet the
elients end the informents use the sane weiting room, therefure,oiid be
Secretly rhotogranhed. Six o'clock ould be the best hour. Subject sires
the offica eith several cotleagues, one of whom, ® weraganophobe, has the
; . » Boom next to subject's, and could be bribed to let one enter and listea to

Sr.) | @oaversetionsthrough the thin partitica. a

¢) a Ot: At

6
Of the Interns: + Mattel elaius ie received funds from
and the Ata. Subject is sald to have ned two Inspectboas
tho P-V.D.) Oporto, Games and Mateo, arrested for differing with him
om political ustters, He arrested ‘ictor Coste; end hia agent, Paul da
Cunha, prepared Fexerte for his on Governur Chatei, Eojor d'Arceau and Wattel.

[re

i



| MA. bi 7 | ;

it. Vd :
An Italisn, od in Muy to be attuch: 2
tote ticcons 1» rawartod

(be attuch«d to tue Italien Talons tion
tics. Probabty worked for te british. Hie frieai, Hygina
ferrari, i).oage to the Intelligence service. f

Caaceed el FPooce :

5 OF the Lich Legetion, When the d*/rade featly left for Vichy in usy,
he gevea fi yarty at which were vresent: d'Amde, Dr. Kreel, Letour,
&r. and rs. Goursier, and Mas. de Fonseca. Subject remained’ in Lisbon dur- .
fing Honnier?s absence in Vichy. He was watched, for his berevion »-elnty : o
poomed be ine acres notte Liai In June he left his hotel becruse certein i
: te hed disasyecred fron his room, end he moved into a private fint
‘(Tels 52887), Wattes adds’ that these docusents revavled nothing. Eubject

is under Lr. Ereel's order, has aluvs} daily contacts with ala. Although : .
a the secret politicei section4 tt’ thich he wus appoiated by Vichy, :
ject’s activ! are res fe comercial field. Mae. ve Noronha .

.
‘weported to Wattel in June’ thet he ned seen his secretery at a private showing t
of movies at the Pitish Enbessy.

eee oo

.

‘ene, from the hotel, to the Italian Chanber of Commerce,
Souss, Avenide = de Qouie, 95, 5th fl., 5IBb6.

Subject is, suspect end is being watched. He spoke to Dezetresco vw
phone and tried to phone Padre (%) Marinho. In June he gave a dinner scrty
‘at enich bs al sharin hae ‘and Me, Carvalho Nunes, Mr. end Mrs.. Correia
t 4 fet, Count and Me. Kovuiensko, Mons. end tine. Cohen,
Hee. Baal. / |
‘ Ld ot ae .

; == bper’

oul Generel of Pansma at Barcel L =, who helped Wettel upon
bie arrival rod France. fe was. Sooo ‘of e cheok for $150, drvwn on Ciuse Bonk
of New York, or Bercelona, which Wattelts tailor couid not cash, later gotting
@ court judguent.ageinat Mattel on it. Subject had e Vice-Consul, Comes, whose
fother-in-lac, Lhomet, Sattsh pate +c get him oll the necescry uepere end
G@ehoapsny his ‘through Spaine



t ee isHhgit parter ot otal Barapa porter ‘ter ot Hotel Buro, Bach noraing, subject :9s9eg bia ine + .
: hee oe tp uorcol tos" Batanigr de Alnelua, runuer at te Bote. detropole, —
sate Moleatly a z ft
Pemtatats_ ot Kite, 6 :
= 11, rus Jocledade Fermacention, 4th £1. right.
ac

a Hiter seorantes drove for the Portuguese Cunsulate fa Prrie, In Aljube : i
wa Tor elding refugees to @ater Purtuges. Hie olle, e French woun, is

+ Titeat,fandes  Bubject is told see cir fofraeim tka Blais pea \ i
Ava to Liston. ‘
Fenseo Feencs, Trpveses oe Reaolares

+ yy ~)
MA 2 | Often at the Royal Bor.

& tom eel. fet! Gy als oe 1

of Bruno Mayer's,
: at fi ry

at the Hotel Metropole.
pePaant

informstion fr-r. Bain,
eaen coy for ite S
‘and up to @ yeary ego received = =—s a

- cae Bae este | forelge solic tone

> : vim
OY @ Ee pom Eoey
1S 99y um Boe de Quetros, top floor, center. Tels 43600

the Bubjest first reported to have Spanish nationality, tues fe said to
Ss ete ees Oe ae eee fother end on Italien sotner, te

eo


aod

aarried and bas one czall ceuenter, Tere is still sous bt
position, however, Piret, he wre besieved to Le on Attac:
i Legstions next, an ezeat, with Hans Faden, sorsing for tre
: 0 few days Lever he Ta’ recrtnd to be in tue es oy of tua Gummo Ltell-
igence Ber Wiatever iis officta. position, it 19 widesetudly ane of :
Yayartenee tit rie coliaboreted with tne *Bic Calef®, ene resent at all v
bis loterviews witn He hiaseif ordered Wawro to ccatect ve Seyptian
Minister and General Giraud's delevate and urge Governor C:.atel to Leave
Porsugay, eas sleo present wren 1): pens | beeat interrogeted Wottel about
bis! bureau contacts, wo ton to rob tie british
planes et Statra, and finally, in late ren
Sought him out and cave him a Gersan pas te
Service®, he is believed to re ib Pout
EASE Ya sa

working for him and to i reo!
: 64 th
iz Gater*, udject hee ae {lLuetone ebgus, Ge rom

Alanciia, ox-Capt.

aye
Wattel, tn July, suggeated tiat cubjeat!o nome wes vell-worth wutcnings

fhe best tise was 10:30 pau. Bubject naé » furnisied avertacit on tue toy

figore with © berconys Lis office 8 on the extromo ioft. He can be obser-
wed fren Opposite sidewalk. Wren execting vioitors, tie office is

bh phe Aug @ignad te come up, and subject sten’s in: derkrese ou the beleony

at ‘extreme right, to sce if nis visitor is being followed,

Born £h Poris, Februsry 2), 1686. Has been in Portugal ? years, Ia
g Chier= ‘Stored Wottel Ye obtein information on ciated

ap
“| Was @ guest at the dinner party given by Pangel in June.
BOSUA :



DV eneench bore nenrmnmneaitet 9 0

ie
OF the PAYADs ith e [sternationas tlonas p2lice. Wattol saya ne is pro-Britiss | AE
RicmD
: Of tne Belgian Legation. Seid to imow Loureiro, of the "Portuguese fact «
: Passport® sffair, well enough to identify hin, teint :
| RDU WENT, LaSa

20 Prace do itmicipio

Bold sonetning called”! ‘Benecec' to the Geruanes, for delivery at hi 3 in
transit for Switserland, Noronha varticipeting in the nogotisticns. In

wore p) 1g, Vith Noronie, to buy # cargo of cacso etosid @ ship in
‘Tay wer, replace the merchandise with eupty cases, then send the

|

iP en

‘ ot: aye

Avenids Palace Hotel

oe

from the Hotel, in June, to Yorretva Dise at Oporto.

parm ot Tels 53407 ; i

Semen a ae Reacts tee Pointed out to Wattel ; aus
bod ‘oop tod eee coakinie the one who wae using a cut-out 4

Y ra Cerrar) 5 ok: a yecaaell £0. the Jopanesy. :

jortuguese. Wettel vas to contact ver ‘Suse hte ‘friend, Mre. i
—
ext: Ore. ve dw, wy! 7

= Dinar ae bane, FF rine ‘o

Was the internediary in the purenage bs
** galled SBenaceo® from LeB. Rosenbusch Hellsutt.

fernang of sonething



“gr +

ue

oar
SEEISLER. Dre
Of the Joint Distribution Comittee. is antl, by other sources, to

Inow oll the details in the case of the Italinn et Caldas da Rainha for
whom 6 "Havicert® wae obtained with the help of Bt. Har,er of the British

Control: office.
(Terestcheako) Cot
in July, along with Fattel end-otham,

: by the BaVsDsFes
apparent: t of en Santi-Bois ichersale tke In August, British
por tod, h = to the palise Tce as one the suspinicus: oro. i, contact with

ary

(under B. Vives)

gforted, in February, as possible purchaser of 3 kilos Digitaline
d inte the country.

Ut) brnen
mn, Contacts Berades (or Paredes) of «tte French Legation.
“ Bccording to e British report, subject, fo aktan, 4s the sistress

of the Maltese, Pascal Celleje. she lives Caktas ¢& Raina end knows
“Battels The Germans considered her, and Calleja,untrustworthy.

WS i
Rha do Arsenal

“-. Rnea about the taline snuggled into the untry serly in the
_ yor, tad wun interest ind ed

: Arrested with Mattel and others, in July, ay #.V.D.E., apparently as
part of an Panti-Ralsheviat® drive,

a



-25-

ba. (see EneZper) a2", herve iy iets
“poon fil, Avenida Palace Hotel uf

AGersen national, born in Turkey. Seen in Estoril,’ Reported to
ce esl tnenesis 2S eee pron lS athfus Re F PE bs OF

wha



rc

Yrs. Agnes Soust. - 67 rus

Acnille Emile Renou - 34 rus ‘IGS ?

MARTA

. . . . rue TCS
7 bd Ld ae $9 run NCVA 1
4 Portuguese Air Nevigation Co. - rua i ce JULHO i
| Erfeo Cuitterd - 13 rue iGA TE CUEIHOZ, top floor, center ‘

Wlle, verte do Luz - 43 rus COSLEDALE FARWACZULICA a 7

ts
ionic! DGC FANCULINOS, Stu
yurks de Conzeica rus LA Phisté 2
3 Pires - 42 ri ADE FAPNACEUTICA, ata, right o
“7” Hans Faden - 7 run UARCUES. DH SUBSLRRA, Cth
Antonio Pontes = Pensao Frunca, Trevecse REXAKRNYREDCS RIMOLARES

(eo Se Rosentusoh iiellmutt - Pruca LC WUNICIPIC

Philip Spitzer - 105 rua RODRIGO LA FONSECA

Bemetresco - 6 Avenife 2ESSANG GARCIA, yround fl., right

“s Deussen - 43 rua JOACUIM ANTCNIO D'AGUIAR, 4th., right.

: Wattel - £3 rua SOCIEDADE FARMACEUTICA :

