*404-10172-10225]

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 i

oo UNTER NAL
CE UNCLASSIFIED ==) TaTERNAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEEY

fo)
J conrivenriat seca to? G4
3 ee cae

Deputy Chief,WE
for the Rritish Commonwealth
7220

oer ee

on

{ 17 July 1963

TO. (Offcw devignmon. teem member, ent are
$
weteg! ws } omcee:

COMMENTS (Member ez comment ta thow fom whom
te whom. Drow @ line corte column otter wach comment)

a=

jThe attached is, of course,

csr (SAVE )
2
Theil K perc

7based on conversations prior
to the recent press publicity
jcoucerning AELADLE's presence

|

—+

in the U.K. 3
f Caswell}

RY 610 ease" CO] secret =] CONFIDENTIAL

C7 MEAL) UNctassiFien


SECRET

17 guly 1963

‘MEHORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI

SUBJECT: AELADLE - Status and Attitude in 5 608
Based on talks with Arthur Bestia o6.e
— : and Jana |
" U6 06, oD

1. Cvartin/atated that ADLADLE nas “settled in” very well

i in the U.K. and that his current attitude ie g +06T2 date
j he has posed no major “personality” problems. (Martin, person-
! : ally, bas handled.all of the contact with him for aiace
bis arrival in the U.K. AKLADLE's wife apparently loved"
London and bas been somewhat dissatisfied Since they have been
travelling about "the' provinces” and living in tho country,

i 2, During the first reek in July ABLADLE began his first
! "work" since his arrival in the U.K. He has been preparing
his analysis of and “conclusions” on the Penkoveky case. 06,03
this _ncriod he has been primarily seen by)
J

ABLADLE, according to[_ |, 4s -conviocea— tna w
@ controiled Soviet agent frok the beginning and ering
paper to support his views. According to 1d 06, 29
24 ere letting AELADLE get this out of his syaten before
pushing bin on other matters,
06, 0G
i 3. According to both{Martin and AELADLE ia a

H very voracious reacer of thé British press Bhd has been fol-
: lowing recent events in the security field with a great deal

of interest et attention,
°

4. Custia}feeis that ASLADLE realizes that in the U.K.
he ig “closer to the front lines in a security sense” and is
therefore more amenable to discipline over hia activities and
moveaents. In addition, AKLADLE apparcatly already realizes
that London is partially “in the provinces” in the world scene
and that he was much closer to the center of world events while

near Washington.

3. ABLADLE, according to(vartin} 1s already thinking
about & possible roturn visit to the U.5.o("sometime in the fall”
and has on several occasions asked tiniwhat he thougnt his
reception vould be in Washington0l{Martin}believes that AELADLE
Fealizes he burned quite a fev of his bridges through hie

otal Ee

i/o


aj

SEGRE

attitude and actions Prior to his departure fron the U.8.
AZLADLE bas said that he hopod the “past could be forgotten"
and i@ anxious that there would be Bo reference to past
difficulties if and vhen be came to the U.S. for a visit,

: ey

6. According to(iartia] anapus is not eager for sur-
facing at the Present time. He xlso commented that he

hoped in his future “work” that one subject could be fully
covered before shifting to another. Apparently he considared
the past systea a "hit and miss" ethod which was sometimes
confusing ang oo teconcer ting.

°
7. [asrtialatates that LE's files still reuain
sealed are kopt in s re io Martin’ Personal office,
26

oO}
Bona ¥. Casvell)
eputy Chief, WE
for the British Consonvealth

cc: C/BR
DD/P

-2-
Sila! -
EVS GtY :

|
