# 104-10185-10183

## Page 1

104-10185-10183

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATION KERORT INFORMATION REPORIL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

•Tata trateral pinratia latermering dinin lue Nell's

atihin' le aimE

IT'S 1DÁ

SHIRTEP: LANS, TIU

:91 And,200.:86.e. Unisialed 312 19 pe8r

RET

NO FORY DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Cia Dimitra: Repeb

REPORT NO.

CSC1 316 01174-65

DAIE DiSTR. 16 March 1965

"NO" PAGES

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CLA

Unckground Use Only

Be Not Reproduce

DATE OF

1964

"INFO;

PLACE &

Wishingter, D.C.

1 964

-DATE ACQ

HIS: 15 UNEVALUATED. INTOR

LATION. ' SOURCI

FIELD HEPORT NO

DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL DE CONTENTIS

TIVE:

„A former Colon IS officer who served withe Cile la Deer Srice

PH Ap::: 1964.

Render:

ers Comment

a we repart is one co serios recring porschras

maidrd by the source a d inctides supplemerin!

fermany from the records of this Agorey.

116 requeste that the adderssees takr me eraded li !

Pasts me wened in the persong regarts wiled firs

Trilot with this Aboary.

sunt idochlied a pricgraph of Matc! Forgse. TAVERAS

Rosanne bring d Domaic

riid a me inti r.c!

-C's

2. As a member i 'he APCI, TAVERAS was iris ly sei!

Cobo insecure a scholarstup in ihr Urarn or Surlet Sutilist

Republis (USSR).

helership dad rel materialie,

T'AVERA'S ws!"

mly sit le Cuba at 'ho timé he leti.

Feedsue: Ders Commeet

Poor 1938, wo5 elected secretary ol pubichly ard propagaruit cr

Me APCJ Contral Executive Commiter In December 1902. He

ho!d ha' title when he let! the Dominicar Republic on 13 Sepiember

1962 for Mexico un a SpaneCHeP, "s route to the Sewer:

5

4

STATE

REP CINCLANT

(Note: field distribution indicated by "=".)

INFORMATION REPORT

MIC NO HONE MADRA CRA

LE NARA CREA TIEST

MICKROS

HINFORMATION REPORT

DIR - 18622

Ni Prejeci(AMMUG/1)

CSC1-316/01174:6

G/PN

TOWIL, C TiL), WE 1 ili, C14, RID 1, WH +(1)

LIAISON

CI. INA

---

## Page 2

(NC1316- 61174-85

SECRET

NO FORN DICEN

Umon to study on a scholarship, trache ada dime Dudes Hernandez.

Hare TOYOS Vargas, and Norge Milliams FoTElLO Formandes.

Alcd leaders.

and BOTELLO were then in Moscon stut communirs"

(Sc0 CS- 566.900 houroo mucurl Diember 1963 another

Suinco roported that TAVERAS, DURAN. TOYOSHaNd BOTELLO

verd then in Cala and did not plan to got she Soviet Umon as they

were unable to obtain the scholarshes either before they left for

Cuba no since they had been in Cub.

iSs' 05-3. 568,846)-1n:

late de tubeer 190-4.

BOTELLO sud that TAVER AS had heedin

Cubas a member of his training aroup chich had seren months

of multiry traming, and that he expected TAVERAS tririt

The Domincan Republic soon, using o faire passport to enter ile

cuntry (Sic TDCS-314 04551-64), de. 12 December 1964, DURAN

Said Mat TAVERAS returned to the Duminar. Republe trom Cuba

on or about 12 December 1964, probably este a false passport.

(See: C'S-311 6u•)14-65).

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

---

