# 104-10404-10445

## Page 1

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

sa.

SECRET/RYBA'T

WH/COG 67-191

MENOKANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

ADDP

C/CI/R & A (Mi. Rocca)

: Garrison and The Kennedy Assassination

: CI/R & A Memorandum Dated 26 April 1967

1. In response to reference memorandum, WH/Cuban Operations

Group has endeavored

to provide all available information on

individuals and organizations requested in paragraphs 5,

" of reference.

Attachment 1 contains background information.

and biographic data on individuals obtained from WH/COG and

INVAVE files.

Attachment 2 summarizes the background informa

tion and Agency association with the organizations listed in

paragraph 5 of reference.

WH/COG will continue to review all material that may

contain infornation pertinent to this subject and will forward

such information to CI/R & A on a priority basis.

Eas I Ja

AC/WH/COG

Williamson

Atiachment 1

Bio data on individuals

Attachment 2

Background summary Of ERD, DRE,

INCA

m.......

SHET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Attachment 1

Sergio Vicente ARCACHA Smith (Enclosure 2 o1

reference memorandun

DOB: 22 January 1923, Cuba

1.

Traces on ARCACHA do not reflect the date he first

arrived in the u.s.

he became the FRENTE

REVOLU

CXONARLO DEMOCRATICO (IRD) delegate in New Orleans prior

to the Boy of Pigs invasion and continued in that position

until the FRD ceased to function.

The FRD was the predecessor

of the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, and was

organized and

supported by the Agency.

The organization was

used as a

front for recruitment of Brigade

2506 for the invasion.

During this period ARCACHA reported to the FRD headquarters

in Miami through a post office box in Coral Gable? New

• reportediy maintained extensive relations with the

Orleans FBI and Immigration offices.

Two of his regular

FBi contacts were a Mr. De Bruce and

the deceased Guy

Banister.

ARCACHA was also one of the promoteis of the

FRIENDS OF DEMOCRATIC CUBA, INC (FDC) which was incorporated

in New Orleans on 6 January 1961. This organization was

ostensibly cicated by several New Orlcans business and

political figures, including the deceased former FBi agent,

to collect money to aid Cubans in their

fight against Communisn.

According io the articles of

incorporation,

these donations would also be used to support

the funds were to be channeled through ARCACHA,

less a percentage to be retained by

the FDC.

gation conducted by a reliable Miami Station asset concluded

thai the FDC was organized strictly for the personal gain

of the promoters with the approval and collaboration of

ARCACHA.

The investigation produced no evidence

that any

individual donations were ever solicited oi received and

recommended that the funds of the Stevedores Union and the

books of the New Orleans Exporters Company be investigated

for evidence of personal

gain and possible evidence of

federal tax evasion,

the president of the New

Orleans Exporters Company, Gerard F. Tunague, and the Chiei

o New Orleans Stevedores Union, Alfred Chittenden, were

officials of the FDC.

Approximately one month after the

FDC was created,

strong criticism from some prominent Cubans

put the organization out of business.

Information in an innigration card reflects thai

ARCACHA travelled to Caracas,

Venezuela at an unspacified

Ilis address in Venezuela was HOTEL TIUNA, Caracas,

and his Us address was listed as 4523 Duplesses Street,

New Orleans. Passport No. 00433.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

STUME:

Busground information on the be and AicAct.'s

connoction with the organization was forwarded to the

in CSCI-3/764, 414,

dated 30 March 1961.

the above summary of information on ARCACHA are; DBF-66955,

Octobnu 1961; CSC7-5167-3737-65; and UrGA-929, 22 rebruaY

13 January

---

## Page 4

13-00000

(

Carlos BRINGUER (Enclosure 6 of reference memorandum)

Carlos BRINGUER is a brother of Juan Felipe BRINGUER

Esposito, a former member of Brigade 2506 who was captured

The personal history statement in

during the invasion file states his brother Carios, a lawyer

Juan BRINGUER'S 201

in Cuba, was 26 years old at the time of Juan's recruitment.

in 1960.

SCOLET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Edward S. BOlüER (Paragraph 7 (A) ol reference memorandum)

In January 1965 Subject's organization (INCA)

sponsored

the New Orleans appearance of Juanita CASIno shortly after

her arrival in the US.

INCA had a particular interest in

MiSs CASTRO Since they distributed hundreds of tayes contain-

ing Miss CASTRO's declarations when slie was

surfaced in

Mexico. (A JNVAVE asset, who is Miss CASIRO"s business manager,

handled the plaming and arrangenents for the New Orleans

visit with iNcA officials.

The only subsequent contact

between (the JMWAVE asset and Edward BUTLER occurred when

BUTLER was recently in Miami promoting the INCA film on

"CASTRO-HITLED in HAVANA".

See Attachment 2 for a summary

0i the INCA organization.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

S20LE1

Albert ROWIER (Paragraph 7(B) of reference memorandun)

DPOB: 15 July 1929, New Orleans, Louisiana

Subject is Alberto Casimir FOWLER Perillaii,

of Brigade 2506 who was captured

during

and returned to the US in the December 1962 prisoner

exchange.

FOWLER apparently returned to Cuba with his parents

during

his early life and returned to the US to attend

schol in his

late teens.

Lenox,

Massachusetts,

He attended the Lenox School,

1948-49; Louisiana State University

1949-51.

graduation from LSU he returned to Cuba

and married Margarita Paulette Van

del SCHUEREN,

August 1933, Brussels, Belgun.

FOWLER was President of

the North American Sugar Company, Havana, from 1951 until

he returned to the US in November 1960 and enlisted in

• Brigade 2506.. At the time of his enlistment he gave Mark

FOSTER, Cuban Refugee Center White House Representative,

and former US Ambassador William D. PAULEY, as references.

Following his release fron prison FOWLER worked for the

until at least late 1964.

He apparently

lost his US citizenship during his years

of residence in

Cuba

and imnigration records indicate he applied for advance

parole status

in November 1964 while he was

still

employed

in W.

Paim Beach.

He apparently returned to Louisiana

sometime after that date.

FOWLER's mother lives in Coving-

ton,

Louisiana,

and he has a sister who is married to Fort

PIPES, Jr., member of a prominent New Orleans family.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Lawrence J. LABORDE, 201-294688

On ll May 1967 the headquarters office of the Domestic

Contacts Service telephoned the C/CI/R&A and said that Subject had

telephoned the New Orleans office of the DCS that day. Subject said that

he was an ex-CIA employee, that he feared that D.A. Jim GARRISON

would subpoena him, that he was willing to leave the U.S. to avoid a

subpoena, and that he wanted the office to tell him what io do.

A review of Subject's file has led to the hypothesis that this

visit may have been a provocation, probably engineered by GARRISON

in an atteinpt to trap CIA into advising Subject to leave Louisiana.

Had such advice been given, GARRISON would have been able to buttress

his charge that CIA is attempting to obstruct the course of justice in

New Orleans.

The Miami Station requested a provisional covert security

approval for Subject.on 14 March 1961. The request was granted on

24 March 1961. (A PCSA approves contact for spotting and assessing

only.) However, a 31 March 1961 cable from Miami requested per-

mission to increase Subject's salary to $700 a month and to pay him

bonuses.

A Headquarters dispatch of 23 March 1962 warned Miami

that Subject was indiscreet, drank too much, and had an unsavoury

reputation, On 20 April 1962 Miami cancelled the rcquest for an

approval, on the grounds that Subject was a poor security risk.

Subject had no later relationship with the Agency. Subject was bitter

about his CIA contacts when terminated and made reckless threats.

An FBI report of 23 May 1962 said Subject had contacted

representatives of the Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC, Agency-created.

and supported) in New Orleans, his home town; had offered his services;

and had said he was running a boat out of Key West, smuggling Cubans

and guns with the knowledge of CIA.

SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET

6.

A Miami report of June 1962 said that Subject was employed

1947-1949 in Mexico by the U.S. Department of Agriculture but was

fired for excessive drinking, discharging unauthorized firearms, and

non-support of dependent children.

The New Orleans States-Item of 28 July 1962 named Subject

as the source of bitterly anti-CIA remarks in a story which praises

LABORDE as a "good family man, completely reliable", and quotes a

Cuban refugee leader as saying that CIA and FBI agents termed Subject

a man of integrity. An anti-CIA article in the Denver Post of 3 June 1962

• also appears to be based on statements from LABORDE.

FBI reporting of August 1962 stated that LABORDE had duped

certain persons into buying a schooner, the Elsie Reichart, by saying

that he and a crew would operate it for Cuban operations which the

U.S. Government could not openly acknowledge but for which it would

pay handsomely.

SECRET

---

## Page 9

13-00000

Carlos QUIROGA (Paragraph 7(C) of reference memorandum)

Subject is possibly identifiable with, Carlos QUIROGA,

a dormer student at Lolisiana Stute University who was a

candidate for the Agency Student Recruitment Program.

involved recruitment of Cuban students in the US who would

return to Cuba as agents in place.

JMWAVE traces reflect

an individual of the same name was an electrical engineer

and made anti-US statements.

There is no indication that a .

CarlOs QUIROGA was ever

employed by the Agency in any

capacity.

---

## Page 10

13-00000

Julian BUZNEDO (Enclosure 8 of reference memorandum)

DPOB: 16 February 1940, Havana, Cuba •

Subject is apparently identifiable with Julian

BUZNEDO

Castellanos, who arrived in the US on 10 November 1960 and

enlisted in Brigade 2506.

He was a civilian pilot in Cuba

and served on the invasion craft BARBARA J.

BUZNEDO was

captured and released in the prisoner exchange.

(There is no

indication he was

ever employed by the Agency,

other than

his participation in the invasion.

10;

---

## Page 11

13-00000

"i.

Gordon Duano NOVEL (Enclosure l9 of reference memorandum)

There is no record of Subjeet in VI/Cuban Operation

Group files

OI' JWAVE fiJus.

JMWAVE citod the artiele

On NOVEl which appoared in the MIAMI HERALD

100%, which is available in CI/k&A, and is in the process

of conducting an exhaustive search for traces on the cover

organizations NOVEL claimed to operate for the Agency in

Now Orleans.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SILENEX

Miguel Silva TORRES (Enclosure 23 of reference memorandu)

(also

traced under Miguel SILVA Torres)

There is no record of Subject under either. name

in WH/COG

JMWAVE files.

---

## Page 13

13-00000

SLu..

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL (DRE)

(STUDENT REVOLUTIONARY DIRECTORATE)

The DRE was conceived, created and lunded by the

Agency in September 1960 and terminated in

‚Decembei 1966.

It was an outgrowth of the activist student group in Cuba

which foucht against BATISTA and later against CASTRO.

Many of the leaders came into exile around September 1960

and were subsequently trained and infiltrated into Cuba

by the Agency

in late 1960 where they operated by obiain-

ing intelligence setting up action teams, etc.,

the Bay of Pigs invasion.. While the DRE

was initially set

up as a psych warfare outfit, the organization was given a

large amount of paramilitary aid in funds and material.

Afiel the Bay of Pigs, the DiE engaged in independent

military actions, which declined at Agency direction and

because of a reduction in funds from late 1962 until ter-

• mination of the group.

Members were used through 1966 as

for publishing

political action agents hemisphere, attending

propaganda which

sent throughout the

direction,

producing radio

programs and

special propaganda campaigns.

After the cutback in military operations, nany

best DRE members relocated in other areas.

present there are delegations in nost Latin American coun

tries which have maintained some contact with various

Agency stations over the years. although

the DRE is no

longer very active.

During the organization's 6 year

period of active existence DRE personnel were in contact

with several JMVAVE staffers and outside contract agents.

However,

from January 1965 through Decenber 1966, contact

with DRE

personnel was limited to two agents, Juan Manuel

SALVAT', the current DRE Secretary General vio is now

operating a bookstore in Miami, Florida,

GARCIA Chacon who was relocated in El Salvador.

---

## Page 14

13-00000

SACT

TIL INTORNATION COUNCIL OF THE ANERICAS, INC. (INCA)

1.

INCA is an

anti-Comnunist propaganda organization

and foreign language propaganda

with hendyuarters in Now Orlean tapes and

that disseminates

English

wide basis, conducts public forums of

The organizational inpotus

apparently come

political nature?ron wealthy New Orleans figuies

and funds

including

Di. Alton OCHSNER, of the OCHSNER CLINIC,

and Willard E.

ROBERISON.

In recent years funds have been supplied by

SCHICKS SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY.

An INCA letterhead

the officers and officials has been requested

INOW OMWAVE,

which has had

some casual correspondence with the organiza,

tion concerning Miss Juanita CASTRO.

There is no indication of any Agency relationship

with INCA prior to January 1965 when INCA sponsored Miss

• CASTRO's appearance in New Orleans.

At that tinecan Agency,

rasset who functioned as Miss CASTRO's business manager was

involved with INCA officials in planning

the New Orleans

visii where Miss CASTRO was given an award at a dinner

sponsored by INCA.

The dinner, which was atiended by civic

leaders and representatives of

took place

shortly after Miss CASTRO's defection

and there was

considerable

interest in her appearance.

INCA was particularly

interested since it had distributed hundreds of English

and Spanish language tapes containing

her statements when

she was surfaced in Mexico.

In October 1966 INCA again

requested that Miss CASTRO

guest speaker in

major American cities in connection with

the INCA motion picture production

"HITLER IN HAVANA".

Following various reviews of the film, JMWAVE decided

film would probably become controversial and it would be

inadvisable to

permit Miss CASTRO to accept the invitation.

Because

O¿ INCA's extremist political orientation,

has vanied to

avoid any more involvement between Miss CASTRO

and INCA and the Station asset, in his capacity as business

There has been only

one cas, he santa tweet assel and edward 5U 271,665

Executive Vice-President of INCA,

since Miss CASTRO'S

New Orleans trip.

This took place recently when BUTLEn was

in the area promoting the "HITLER IN HAVANA" film.

According to IMVAVE, INCA officials have never

In any way that they are aware of Agency control

and direction of Miss CASTRO or her business agent, and there

is no indication that INCA officials have had any

official

contaci with Agency officers.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

SLONET

FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (FID)

(CUBAN DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTIONARY FRONTS)

guidance and financial support in May

The IRD was created with Agency assistanisisted

oi several anti-CASTRO groups.

The FRi was forned as &

political action, propaganda and military unit.

actions consisted of extensive radio and printed propaganda,

demonstrations, and trips throughout the Hemisphere to gain

supporc for the fight against CASTRO.

The FiD also functioned

as the front organization for recruiting the members of

the Bay of Pigs invasion force and carried out a massive

program of social assistance to Brigade 2506 members in

iraining camps and their families.

Although the FRD head •

quarters vere

based in Miami, delegates were assigned to

which included New Orleans,

Louisiana,

and Mexico City, to gather intelligence and

coordinate Cuban refugee activities.

1960 or early 1961 the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

COUNCIL (CRC) was

formed to coordinate and direct FRD

activities and this group was headed by Agency and White

House sponsored Di.

Jose MIRO Cardona, assisted by Manuel

and Di. Antonio VARONA.

the FRD and the CRC

continued io

function until October 1961 when theilD was

the CRC in

ordei to avoid the confusion

resulting

froil duplication of persomel, activities

The CRC also had direct access to President

Kennedy and top White House aides.

Because of the magnitude

of the WilD and CRC operations and the Agency participation

in the activities and funding of the groups, a

large nunbes

Of JHVAVE and Headquarters were directly involved with both

FRD and CRC personnel..

SIGZET

---

