# 104-10185-10119

## Page 1

-00000

104-10185-10119

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-5

4

3

2

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

Coitar cuba

SUSST indis

TRATUNA

REPORTNO. CSCT+376/00687-64

DATE DISTR 18 AUgUSI 1964

NO, PAGES 8

REFERFNCES

DATS CF

INFO.

PLACE &

• 1964

rashington,

3964

FIELO REPORT NQ.

M.S IS UNEVALUATED

INFOSMATION SOUSCE GRADINE: ALS DIFINITIVE APPONISAS OF C

sourca a forier Cuban IS officer who served with the Cubaa

Incelligence Service unt1l Apr1l 1964.

Headorarters Connents

The fo-lowing report is one of a series containing

parsonality

information provided by the source and

includes supplemental infornation froi the records

of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on

any of the

individuals nentioted in the persorality reports

without first checking with this Agency.

Andres ArloNA,

pseudonyu "Ernesto," is the officer in

charge of the Haiti Dask in the Seccion Central (Central

¿merican Section) of the Departarento de Liberaciou

Vicional (The Natiorai Liberation Department - IV) of the

Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Iatelligence - DGI).

Commercial a tache in sexoco 1a2, 50755,6,7,3,9 Cuban

Taadquarters Comrents

1.

A report dated 8 August 1961, from a fairly reliable

source, stated that one Andres ARKONA Ramos had been

issued a diplomatic visa by the Costa Rican embassy

in Habana.

AR"ONd was newiy appointed as secretary

'ixst-class to the Cuban Enbassy in San Jose; ne wis

lso expected to serve as tensorary charge d'affaire.

in the Embassy.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

081-1-08-8000

I ARMY

330

CINCLAYT

INcia: finia c' serias insiccied by "=".)

NelY

CINCSO =

INSA

1 062

FBT 2

ISNS

J5/R

LE/ADR

ALICACAS

True

RETURNTO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Nick Apprecise

1275"7233.

1/SF7105 :

i: 3

5X-1600, 2K.2291

LSO PROJECT CANIUG/

-CSCI-316/00691-

CODINTINS RELEASE

3/PV

RID/EY

OSSDIFTE PPEVIOUS IO.T.U.5S

JL1A1SON

ZU=-555235

---

## Page 2

¿A&T

NO FOREICH DISSEN

24

J. dürwälly reliible source mich good contactolin the Cósça Ricae

anred it the Cuban Enbassj in San Jose.

ARaONas reportedly das

¡¡ò sendor didieral nho soni lu Cusia lica

with instructious

all existiay. dikan fronts.

This infornacion das

reccsred da a ruport dated 21 August 1961.

3.

mis sine source lasseport dated september got, stated

rimoids, the cuban Go2 agont in Couta Ries,

colivered

2 lecsure st a meeting on 21 jugust 1961, sponsoreit by the

Ho apuso particularly to a group of. Connunist syupathitzcos

and =1l1tants wie wore choses to so to cuba dur teste mee

silicsag 27 hujuat 1963, to stolve sfanoel of lastruction

1n guerrilla activitles la the provinco oi las villas.

4.

On à Septenber 1961, a usually rellablo souice reported that

diures dacolia ARLONA Ramas,

diplonatde passpore number D/61/175.

arrived in lexico on 15 lay 1S51, departed texteo for Hatianis

op 5 june 1961, returned to jesico on

28 July 1951 d00

departed lexico sor san Jose on 30 July 1961.

ARJONA WAS

• described au baylog been bora in 1919, a nulatto, and mariledi

In the ? Auguet 1961, Issue at the San Jose daily

neuspaper

1t wes reported that Andres N'icolas ARJOVA famos, tue

¿alsa Charge d'Affaires, was replacing Cuban Anbassador Juan

Jose FUXA SaenZ.

6. À raport dated 29 August 1962, fros a usually:rellable source...

stated that Andres ARliONA Razos, tho new Cuban Connercial

Counselor of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, arrived in Nexico

on 2ª August 1962, and vould replaco Ramon CUENCA Montoto.

7.

A les-can businessman with close contacts in conmercial and

shipping circles statod, in a report dated 29 October 1962,

thút thieto haú buen no evidence that Andres ARONA Ramos

had deplaced CLENCA as chief of G-2 in dicxico.

According to

Le sudlice

ARKONA 15 highly intellectual and has no under-

standing oi cornercial activities.

CUENCA suggested that

Afrold be trinsterred to the Cultural Section and source

bolicles that this will be the case.

8.

Ducuientary iniormation received in a report dated 25 June 1903,

fron a reprecertative of this Agency in lexico revealed the

following information:

.dres ARiONA Ramos, a legro who was born in labana,

Cuba, or. 20 November 191S, is the Commercial Attache

it the. Cuban Embassy in lexico City. Me holús

passport number D/62/190. His wife,

Irma MILlS Olivera

de Armoni, holds passport number E/62/637.

ARNONA haS

so children, Fidel ARloNA "ilan and Margarita ARiONA

silan.

In sexico caty, E CR End his family reside

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

VDV

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRE!

NO FOREiUN DISSIL

- 3-

a: Bachuca i2i.

9.

dragiro daled IS jral 1964,

from a fairly relsable source,

formorij of ile Connercial: 0111c0

arcatic da Cuba: 105

hausso cope suel fuo records of espondicuras;

46- cane.

close io Dei»S TITOra 1ntO Ja1l.

boes sologated

so clippisg rotspagers, cloarly donoicd. He left thinga

In sien do aliul siss al tho office ir. desico Caty, peóplo

there die still arjing to straighton out has accounts.

C R

FOREGGR

DISSEN

---

