# 104-10119-10092

## Page 1

104-10119-10092

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIC

TOP AND BOTTOM

NCLASSIE ED

*CON

ANTIAT EA

ASECRE

CEN

TRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCI

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

•DATE

* NAME AND ADDRES:

CLAB

5118

ACTION 20*

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE :

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION -C

RETURN 70

SIGNATURE

-CONCURREI

Remark

eng

reat return then goe

"FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS

NO PHONE NO.

Phalan

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

на 237

Use previous editions

U.S. GOVERMMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1981 0-

inciden i

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Lund.

8 February 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: HUNT, Everett Howard, JI.

OS #23500

1. On Wednesday, 6 February 1963, subject called to

discuss a "personal" problem.

2. He said his wite planned to do translation work in her

home for the Spanish Embassy. His question was: Does she have

to register under the "Foreign Agents Registration Act." I told

HUNT that this was a legal question for the OGC.

3. I then asked if he had gotten permission from OS for

his wife to work for the(Spanish Embassy) "He fuzzed the answer

and said that his wife would go to work for the Spanish Embassy)24

regardless of what he said-she was that independent. I told him

he had better reconsider as he could get into trouble with us and

DD/P. I suggested that he ask J. Bagnall if the JUSPB could

use Mrs. Hunt to keep her from employment by the Spanish 2 4

Embassy. He liked the suggestion and would sound out Bagnall.

4. Mr. Murphy, SO of DODS, will be informed about

the wife; also C. I. Staff and EAB/PSD.

he medies

E. M. WINTERS

Deputy Director of Security (PPS)

Distribution:

OS File #23500

- DD(PPS) Files

l - Chrono

OS/DD(PPS):EMW:jmaj (8 Feb 63)

Exciated for : 1 an

desie::

---

