# 104-10181-10144

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10181-10144

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DrIU

MLOSAUE

SURa

•ROM :

ICTION:

NFO:

: DIRECTOR

MERIDA

WH 8

03

Da Santi

Poracki-

DOP, C8, CI/OPS, C1/IC 2, F1, SAS 8, RF 2*

POUTINA

SECRET 23173OL

24 J01 63 19 856 1G

PRITY MEXI INFO DIR CITE MRID P221

FOLL SUMMARY OF CONVERSAFION

SETVEEN LITAU-! AND SOLNHURST

WHO PRESENTLY NOT VERY PROFICIENT IN SPANISH).

ORIGINATED BY BOLNHURST FOR THE ATTENTION OF MERTON WHO TOY MEXI

(SEE KEXI 5449)3

AVARE FACT BOLNHURST NOT QUALIFIED ORIGINATE

COMMAND CABLES, BUT IT THOUGHT- THAT INFO, CONCERNED MAY BE OF

PSSTELE INTEREST MERTON AND HOS.

A. L-I SPOKE OF PHONE CONV BETWEEN CUBEMB CONTACT VEGA

AND CUBCON MRID, AND THAT VEGA WAS TOLD SPEAK NO FURTHER THIS

SUBJECT AS WAS NOT TO BE SPOKEN OVER TELEPHONE. (COMMENT:

WHETHER THIS REFERS TO KNOWLEDGE OF LIHACK OP OR SOME SUBJ

CUBCON CONSIDERS EXTREMELY SENSITIVE NOT KNOWN ALTHOUGH L- 1

DID NOT MENTION HAVING ANY RESERVATIONS RE LINACK OP.

MADE REF TO FLIGHT ORIGINATING MEXI, GOING CUBA ASAP,

TO ARRIVE BEFORE 26 JULY.

FLIGHT CARRYING 6 PASSENGERS

THOUGHT TO BE TOP CP LEADERS, ALTHOUGH DID NOT KNOW IF THEY

MEXICAL'S OR "CENTRAL

AMERICANS" SINCE NAMES WERE VERY UNFANILIAR.

CALL HAVE PROPERLY DOCUMENTED PAPERS TO PASS CUBA).

(COMMENT: *

MIGHT MOT

THIS TIE IN WITH PROPOSED FLIGHT MENTIONED MRID 0212(880654)

OR WITH NAMES MRID R2207)

SPOKE OF MONEY MRID THAT MAD COME THROUGH BANK OF

CANADA. (COMMENI: IT NOT KNOW EXACTLY WANT HAPPENING WITH

THIS MONEY, BUT EXPECT IT ALONG LINES MRID 82140> (53655>

MENTIONED THAT CUBCONSUL MARIANO GARCIA PEREZ, FAMILY

AND FATHER IN LAW VANT GO CUBA BEFORE 26 JULY, BUT VEGA SAYS NOT

POSSIBLE.

IT HOPED ABOVE INFO IS OF SOME VALUE, BUT AS STATED PREVIOUSLY,

THE WRITER HAS NO REAL COMMAND OF SPANISH AND MAY NOT HAVE GOTTEN

FACTS STPAIGHT.

_SECRF.T

C/S COMMENT:

SLEY FOR CONSULTATIONS VIR CHIST PICTON PRESENCE NEXI TWENTY THREE OR THENTY FOUR.

VEGA

901-33425-3

KHEY

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC OCriT-

CRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Nal 21 I

METURN TO CLA

Background Ueo On

Do Nor Proproducia

---

