‘ft04-40175-0146 [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN-F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992}

29 March 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD:

SUBJECT -. : June Sharp COBB (201-278,841) if }

1. we. (Clare sDeous}, C/WH/TOA, called to inform the undersigned |
that June Sharp COBB wes arriving in Washington to appear before the Senate

Subcoemittee on Internal Sccurity, at their request. She is being

asked to testify, so far as is known, on her connections with the Cuban

Government and her knowledge of Juan AREVALO, former President of Guatemala
and author of the book, THE SHARK & THE SARDINES, which Subject translated
into English. : : :
2. ir. )smmosois intends.. to contact Lt. Col. Albert DAVIES, C/IFW/INTZL,
to request permission for the undersigned to contact: subject if this is 5
deened necessary and in the best interests of the Agency. -The. undersigned

discussed the matter vith we Geamtiajense date, end resctivated a sterile

phone oumber (ME 8-0469) formerly used by Subject, in the event she should

attempt to contact the undersigned. The undersigned vas also introduced

to Mr. George CAREY, Legal Counsel, who is interested in the case. Mr. CAREY

Stated that bad we been notified earlier of Subject's invitation by the Sub-
!

committee, it would have been possible to have hed the appearance before the
i

Subcommittee cancelled.

REP RSE At

3. Lt. Col. DAVIES has been informed of the above, and of che back-

ground of tha case by the undersigned, and vill im turn advise Mr. HARVEY,

C/TRW, of the situation. oF i aaa
i
i

Jean T. Pierson
TPW/INTEL/Research .

SECRET atte

j
i
b
H

zer~ 274:

