# 104-10194-10036

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10194-10036

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PERSONNEL QUALIFICATION QUESTIONNAIRE

2. NAME: (last)

(first)

(middle)

Serial No.

(по пету)

3. Office

Phillips

David

Atlea

DDP/PP/ICD/Radio

4. Date of Birth

31 Oct. 1922

5. Sex: → mmale (2) Nr. Dependents Le

Marital Status,arried 6. Employment Date:

1 83ril 1955

7. Citizenship:

8. Acquired By: (l) _*Birth (2) Marriage (3) Naturalization

* U.S.

Other (specify)

Other

Year U.S, citizenship acquired, if not by birth

SEC. I. EDUCATION

1. Extent: (circle one)

1. Less than high school

2. High school graduate

3. Trade, Business or

Commercial school

graduate

4. Two years college, or less

S.

6.

Over sa years no degree

Bachelor degree

7. Post-graduate study

(minimum 8 sem. hrs.)

8.

Masters degree

9. Doctors degree

College or University Study:

Name and location of

College or University

Dates att'd

Yrs Compl

From To

Day Night

Degree Recd

Title

Date

Sem

Hrs

William &Vary

Ens:11s 1938

39

Texas Christian U.

Fort Worth, Taras

University of Chile

Santiago, Chile

Spanis'

cnn. lish 1939

Feb.

19LS

x

?

-

Jund

190

sone

3. Trade, Commercial, and Specialized Training:

Attendance Dates

School

From;

To

Tor. mo's

wari

Study or Specialization

TEN JUN 1855

4. Military, Intelligence or Investigative training (full time duty as a student in

specialized schools such as intelligence, communications, ordaance disposal,

etc.)

School

Attendance Dates

From | Io

|Tot. mo's

Study or Specialization

Fet.

MiF Gunnerry

AF Arnarent

Pet jus

Jan.

1943 2913

6

6

¡grial Gurren

Arranent

To 8: 275

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEC. I1. WORK EXFERIDNCE

1.

"State the nature of duties performed with this organization, starting with

your present position. Approximate dates (month and year) are sufficient.

Use a continuation sheet, if necessary, to adequately describe your duties.

Fromjpr. is To peasea Jor. mos. 2

Description of Duties:

Still monitorin: and sucroct of viancs radia

Grade I4 Salary $0.600

chorations.

assistance to area livisions in

recruitment of spocialised personnal, etc.

Office_PP/TOD/Badia

Position

Title: PP Radio Officer

Duty

Title: ICD/Radio

FrOmAN 54L TO dRE SETOr. MOS. -

Grade - Salary 53,360

Office None

Position

Title: Corvet Assediate

Duty

Title:

FrOm ISU2 TO 1051,

Tot.mos.i

Grade - Salary $5,030 - 26,000

Office? - WH'

Position

Title:

Contract Agent

Duty

-

Title:

From

TO

Tot. mos.-

Duty Station, if overseas:

Description of Duties:

Consultation radio ani nemapaper. and

ostahlishment of cover as a professional

lecturer on South imerica.

Grade

Salary_

Office

Position

Title:

Duty

Title:

From

To

Tor. mos.-

Grade

Salary_

Office

Position

Title:

Juty

Tiels:.

Bor two monthse PP. consultant on

Duty Station, if overseas: Guatemla (two months)

Description of Duties:

Handling of principal sient, statian cutsaut,

recrustmente snottiese buntline deraction

operation, clanilestine printins.

16 - 23

Duty Station, if overseas Buntiago, Chile, etc.

Description of Duties:

Duty Station, if overseas:

Description of Duties:

Duty Station, i overse 1

YOD

---

## Page 3

14-00000

WORK EXPEUENCE (CONT'D.)

2.

Previous Employment: Describe your previous work experience in sufficient

detail to permit full recognition of your qualifications. Include military work

experience.. List last position first.

From dat 5l, Tojor sE Tor. mo's 1

Exact Tille of your position

Classilication Grade il in Federal

Service)

Salary

Fees

Number and Class of Employces

Supervised:

Nono

Employer Ice Kuedick

Description of Duties:

Lactures en latin Atcrica refore rosens

cluhs, lens' linner Clubs, iniversity

lir. ups, etc.

Kind of Business or organization

(i.e.. paper products mir, public

utility)

Lecture Pureau

From

l'or. mo's

Service)

Salary

Number and Class of Employees

Supervised: 35

Employer

salf

Duty Station if overseas:

Exact Tille of your position

Description of Dutie sher.

Vritirs, aditing, management of English

lanquage nersraper. iritin: 'sn: circtine

oi radio prograns in spanist ana lrris.i.

Kind of Business or organization

fi.e., paper products mír,

public

utility)

Norspuper and printing

From 19Al

TO 101.8

Tot. mo's

Classification Grade if in Federal

Service)

Salary Various

Duty Station if overseas:

Exact Title of your position

Saitinia, Chila

Actor and free-lance vriter.

Description of Duties:

Number and Class of Employees

Supervised:

Employer

Marious

Kind of Business or organization

fi.e., paper products mfr, public

utility) ictor, free-lance writer

From

T'ot. mo's

Actira in thuatrical compisias, radio

shonse licitine el fictica radio scrists.

newspaper articlis, etc.

Duty Station it overseas:

Exact Title of your position

Classification Grade(if in Federal

Service)

Salary.

Description of Duties:

Number and Class oi Employees

Supervised:

Employer

Kind of Business or organization

(i,e., paper products mir, public

utility)

From

To

Tot, mo's

Duty Station if overseas:

Exact Title of your position

Classification Grade if in Federal

Service)

Salary

Description of Duties:

Number and Class of Employees

Supervised:

Employer

Kind of Business or organization

fi.e., paper produces mir, public

utility)

Duty Station if overscas:

3

---

## Page 4

4-00000

1

SEC. MI. MON! EXPERIENUE (CUNI'D)

3. Special Work Experience: Check any of the following organizations by which

you may have been employed.

01

U.S. Secret Service

02 Civil Police

03

04

Military Police

U.S. Border Patrol

05 U.5. Narcotics Squad

-FBI

07 Criminal Investigation Div.

21 Office of Naval Intelligence

22_ Office of War Information

23:

Army G-2

20_Office of Strategic Services

24

Air Force A-2

25

Foreign Economic Admin.

26

27

Counter Intelligence Corps

Immigration & Naturalization

28

_Strategic Services Unit

29

Foreign Service, State Dept.

30

31

Central Intelligence Group

32

Armed Forces Security Agency

Coordinator of Information

33 Office of Facts & Figures

34

Board of Economic Warfare

35

Federal Communications Comm.

SEC. III. FOREIGN LANGUAGES

List below the foreign languages in which you have some competence. Be sure to

include uncommon modern languages. Check (X) your competence and how acquired.

COMPETENCE

HOW ACQUIRED

LANGUAGE

Equivalent 1o

Fluent but obviously

Foreign *

Adequate for

Adequate for

(Parents, etc.)

spanish

French

Geinan

Portuguese

X

* Il you have checked 'Fluent' for a language that has significant difference in spoken

and written form (c.g., Arabic), explain your competence herein

#*Specialized Language Competence: Descrihe ability to do specialized language work

involving vocabularies and terminology in the scientific, engineering, telecommuni-

cations, and military fields. List the language with the type of speciality. _

in ricace is trualitor in literature Cield 1a inalste conlodes 2f iran'sh

minting, sunspaper, radio and filn tields.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SEC. IV. AREA KNOWLEDGE

List below any foreign countries or regions of which you have knowledge

2.

Country or Region

Residence, Study

Etc.

Manner in Which Knowledge

Was Aquired (check (X) one)

Residence

Travel

Study

Internititarate

Ch:3 le

Chaural Anerica

nirica, tarta

1245

-

1954

Intermittant

19153

1943-14

Specialized Knowledge of Area

List specialised knowledge of foreign country such as knowledge of terrain.

coasts and harbors, utilities, railroads, industries, political parties, etc..

gained as a result of study or work assignment. Include name of employer

or organization.

Country

Type of Knowledge

Chile

Gratemala

Midi and Paychee

How and When Gained

Bulanted restines ind travel

Maency axpAriancEe

SEC. V.

5kill

Typing

Shorthand

Shorthand System: 1.

TYPING AND STENOGRAPHIC SKILLS (PRESENT UTILIZATION)

Per Cent ai

Time Used

WPM (Approximate

Not Used

12.

Proficiency)

Prefer Assignment

Using Skill Oftener

50

1.

Yes - 2. - Na

Manual 2.

Machine 3. Speedwriting.

SEC. VI. LICENSES, HOBBIES, SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS

1. Licenses:

List any licenses or certi-

2. Hobbies: List any hobbies such

fication such as reachers, pilot, marine.

as sailing, skiing, writing, or

other special qualifications.

iritine gin-divine (2783-2un2)

SEC. VII. PROFESSIONAL AND ACADEMIC HONORS

List any processioral or arademic associations or honorary societtes in which

you hold memberstap._

astic in

nuchor's will of perica

---

## Page 6

4-00000

SEC. VIII. PUBLICATIONS

List below the type of writing (non-fiction; professional or scientific articles.

general interest subjects, current events, etc; fiction: novels, short stories, etc..

of any published materials of which you were author of co-author

fixtorialue namaper esa puilications coatica stacies, edltorials, book

rations, sts.

Juvenile plays and raile ind film scristie

'alaine

articles.

Also author of foreign inuidebuoks. ime serious drama produced.

SEC. IX. INVENTIONS

Describe any devices you have invented as to type of work for which intended

and whether patented.

Device

(D)

(0)

(0)

Yes

Yes

Yes

Patented

(2)

(2)

(2)

No

No

No

SEC.

X. TESTS (Within present organization)

Describe below the fype of tests which you have taken,

Type of Test

Date Taken

SEC. XI. PHYSICAL HANDICAPS

List any physical handicaps you may bave.

None:

SEC. XII. OVERSEAS ASSIGNMENT

Are you willing to accept periodic tour of duty overseas?

(1) 2 year Tour _

* (2) 4 year Tour z (3)

Not interested

SEC. XII.

WORK ASSIGNMENT

In view of your tutal experience and education, for what assignment do

you think you are best qualified?

That to rhich I a presenily assienedi the radia dificca of DR strati

In

the future i feel qualified to carticinate in or direct irence oncrations

which rall in the newsräner or troa:castini caterories.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SEC. XIV. MILITARY STATUS

Present Draft Status

Have you registered under the Selective Service Act o8 19487 -es sNo.

Il yes, indicate your present draft classification

2. Present Reserve of National Guard Status

Norld Tar II Veteran

Do you now have Reserve of National Guard Stalus _

Yes & No.

If yes, complete the following.

2 — Nir Oational Guard

Active Reserve Status (member of organized unit) •

3. Inactive Reserve Status

• Service

Grade

Serial Number

Reserve Unit with which currently aftiliated

Service Mobilization Assignment, if any_

Location of Service Records, if known

SEC. XV. TRAINING

List the training courses or subjects you have taken in this organization.

Course or Subject

(from) Dates (to) Hours

Covert Pi (reunio exciralent to Phase 32)

31 l'arch to 8542r

52

?

Clandestine Asia Political riarfare

¿9 Nos. to 17 Dec

54

Operati. nat secur-br

15 - 26 liov. 54

72

SEC. XVI. REMARKS

Use this space to indicate any other qualifications you may have which you do

not describe above.

_32

isnartent for isarity as an offical U.S.

delerate to a?

Public relatians excerience. For asian posadcasting Company and

intes: radial usels, enc.

Etout, spendede i duart and clariesire saintics teconicues.

des lur propaganda

and commuraries

DATE 10 June 1955

---

