i E -'
1104-10183-10420 (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]
a er ee ae r. :
a eeaienay RETURN TO CIA
‘ Background Use Only
©o Not Reproduce

SECRET

30 June 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Operational Comments relating to ~
: AMWHIP and AMLASH Matters

REFERENCE: Contact Report on 22 & 23 June

Meetings with Carlos TEPEDINO
»

: 8
1. Friends of Carlos TEPEDINO may be useful in securing

information from or establishing contact with Cubans connected

with the regime, including those residing in Cuba, travelling :

outside or stationed outside,, Carlos. Should report on such

possibilities so that we may evaluate’ them and follow through

when appropriate. ° and as

examples, might furnish leads.),4 Persons ofypossiple interest

inside Cuba such as Comandante (NIEVES, (its SOTO) and (Marcelino

ARTIME probably would be useful target: nly if theiruse could

be compartmented completely from the AMLASH operation. (See

page 1, paragraph 1 and page 8 paragraph 4 of reference.)

2. In evaluating reports or considering operations, we
should be mindful of Rolando's mistrust of ARTIME and respect
for RAY, (See page 6 paragraphs 16 and 17.)

| 3. The expectation that an assassination of Fidel CASTRO
may be attempted on 26 July 1965 coincides with that of
ESPINOSA. Although neither has hard current information, an
intelligace dissemination attributed so as to disguise the
sources may be in order. Reporting after the fact would not
be impressive. (See page 7 paragraph 18.)

ie 4, The confirmation of Rolando's disenchantment with the
Agency is #11 the more reason to be wary of him and his close
cohorts. They well might attempt to make good on the previously
expressed threat to blame the Agency if their plans fail and they
are caught. Any unnecessary contact with disgruntled members
of the group increases the risk that the charges could stick.

(See page 10 paragraphs 37 and 38.)

SECRET

7A ;


‘ye

5. Copies of the reference possibly should be sent to \
Paris and Madrid not merely because of their genéral interest:
but also because of information which concerns current or proposed
operations, For example, the reflection of TEPEDINO's views
on his own contacts with CARRILLO (pages 8 and 9 paragraphs
29 and 30 of reference) and the leads concerning CARRILLO's i}
mother-in-law in Paris and U.S. employed aunt in Madrid (See
page 9 paragraphs 31 and 32) might be useful reminders. The
‘denial of contact with CANTILLO in Madrid and the denial of
‘smuggling are in conflict with a Madrid report. (See page 10
paragraphs 37 and 38.) i

» - 6, LCELUTTER arrangements are in process. No operator is
available until 8 July and the Spanish speaking operator 1s
on transfer from Miami to Headquarters where he will arrive
-on or about 6 July.. Coupled with Carlos' own workload and .
travel plans, the foregoing makes an examination in the
Headquarters area on 8 July seem_the best arrangement. I
shall be available. ur, (Webster )is contacting Carlos. (See

page 10 paragraph 40,) 5]
(HD

haere

aay Ei ale

ry

