“"404-10216-10003|
1 5 7

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

E SECRET FREE pee eee $
STAFF
640) INFOS OCO/EODs COPD=Ds VRe FILEs ODORECORDs C/PCSy

OCO-30 PCsy 2 (1570)

woe ROM e mn nemnwowwnserwewewecrwcewenecesewcecrereenensennnneanerce,

80 4364176 PAGE 001 IN 4386178
TOR! 2022562 May 80 ~--— EGDC 10273

Pe emmecnwenewovenecetacccwenecesnnsenececs ecece:

SECRET 2021502 May STAFF

CITE OCO/EGLIN 10273
TOS DIRECTOR INFO OCD/HEADOUARTERSs ta/MIAMI
WNINTEL REAM SLSORTIE SVDISH

SVMACE INTERNAL USE ONLY
FROM CS REPRESENTATIVE

EGLIN OfR@24087~80
SUBJECTS OPERATIONAL LEAD (CUBA)
(THIS INFORMATICW WAS OBTAINED ONLY FOR THE PUROSE OF DE= o
TERMINING SUBJECT’S WILLINGNESS AND CAPABILITY TO COOPERATE
WITH PRRADIUS.)

te 4 PORMER CUBAN NATIONAL WHO WAS IMPRISONED AT COMBINADO

DEL ESTE PRISON IN HAVANA UNTIL HIS RECENT DEPARTURE FOR THE Us Se
REPORTED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING OTHER PRISONERS!

Ae BRIGADE 2506 MEMBERS RICARDO MONT E% 0 ouauE
AND (FNU) VILLAVERDE ARE IN THE COMBINADD DEL. ESTE PRISON. HE HAS -7
HEARD THAT TWO OF THE BRIGADE 2506 VETERANS (CNAMES UNKNOWN)
WAVE DIED IN PRISON AND THAT FIVE OTHERS (IN ADDITION TO
MONTERO AND VILLAVERDE) ARE STILL IN PRISON» BUT HE DOESN’T
KNOW THEIR Aletta hi

8. ROLANDO C U 6 E L Ae A FORMER CASTRO AMBASSADORS IS of

IN _COMBINADO DE: R ALLEG! ANTI@CASTRO ACTIVITIES.

MOWEVER® HE IS SERVING AS AN INFORMANT FOR PRISON AUTHORITIES

ON THE ACTIVITIES OF THE POLITICAL ORISONERS, A
2. FILES 197120077. RVWETMAYSO, D9C1e 2

RYWZOMAYOO ORV O9CI.

iP
END OF MESSAGE SECRET euis |

Thay |
¢

AN tang AOE te en Sade oo degree ee vs te
