# 104-10119-10244

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10119-10244

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

THRU :

THRU:

Chies. SRS

Deputy Chief, SRS

Chief, FIOB/SRS

M. D. Stevens

STARLaRA STALINA

* 505112

25 April 1967

1. Reference is sande to the attsched clippings regarding

Svetlans STALINA, which refloct that the editor of the book she has

written le to be Evan Welling THOMAS, 2ad, the son of Norman

THOMAS; and that lla translator le Mrs. Priecilla Johnson Mac-

MILLAN, aka: Priocilla MaSY Post JOHNSON, $ 71582 Dle who lo

also currently working on a book with Marina OSWALD, Widow of

Lee Harvey OSWALD. The then Priscilla JOHNSON was of Interest

in the OS WALD Case, In that she mos Lee HaIVey OSWALD and inter-

viewed him in Moscow soon after his arrival there and renunciation of

his U.S, citizenahip. Aftor the assassination she wrote a number of

articles about sita.

2. Priscilla JOHNSON'a flle makes no mention of her marriage

tO GeOge MACMILLAN, a tres lanco wilter, and no check on him has

been made. Sha was Security disapproved for staff employment in 1953

because of her questionable associations and activities, and in 1956 a

request for her clearance as a legal traveler in the USSR (Spotter) was

cancelled by Cl/QA when a summary of information regarding her was

faraished that office. She tas again of operational interest in 1958, but

the Dirision again cancelled. She was granted a covert security approval

on 3 May 1963 to permit SR to debrief her concerning her contacts while

in the Soviet Union.

3. STALINA's lawyer is EdwardS. GREENBAUM, $ 354817, so-

garding wbom so summary bas ever been prepared but whose seference

cards indicate the possibility of question as to his political sympathies.

GREENBAUM also represente Harper and Row who will publish STALINAs

book and who also published William MANCHESTER's Death of a President,

which was edited by the above referred to Evan THOMAS who is the Subject

of $ 164032: His file, which falls to indicate that his father is Norman

THOMAS, reflects that in 1957 he was associated with Harper Brothers

SECHLI

Excluded trau actomati:

down!ritiu?. 83d

doclasst.ealico

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

and was the subject of a sequest fos a Covert Security Clearance to per-

nalt hle 888 os QKENCHANT. However, the divielon cancelled prios to

the issuance of the clearance soguestod lor hira. A chack osi bim at the

¡'BI at that time was NIC. In August 1901, Evas THOMAS vAs EgAls ol

interost so one oí the ladividualo at Harper Brothers who mero so bo la-

terulewed sogarding & boak which Pamel MONAT, 1 166821, intendod to

pabliss, which was highly critlead of CLA and the FBI. Il was hapod that

publiestion of the book could be stoppod but there la no ladication in

IHOMAS'S OS Ille se to whether di was or sot.

*.

Man Uriel SCHWARTZ, $ 168207, a 35 year old partner in

the law firm GREENBAUM, WOLFF, And ERNST, ! LE 6832, WhO BC-

companled STALINA sO New YOrk, WAS al laterest to WH/III la February

1958, at which time il was indicated that he was employed by Morrie 1:

ERNST in GREENBAUM, WOLFF, Rad ERNST. Edward S. GREENBAUL

18 8 senior partaer la this EITIa, 88 aloO la MOTIts L. ERNST, $ 167982

and EE-6832-A, There li much seriously derogatory laformation on

ERNST, including the fact that in December 1939 he attended & secret

maoting at Communist Party headguarters la Chicago, Illnois, at walch

timo be was identified as the Counsel of ACLU in New York City. Alan

SCHWARTZ, who apparently was brought into GREENBAUM, WOLFE.

and ERNST bY MOrrÍ 1. ERNSI, la sEid la the 1967 volume of sartjadale.

Hubbell to be a graduate of Yale University Law School, to have written

Censorship-the Search for the Obscene with Morris ERNST, and to have

been Counsel to the Radio and Televinion Committes o ACLU since 1959.

Il la interenting to note that in March 1958, Security rocommendod agalnat

ERNST's 1s0 in connectlos with the GALINDEZ cAse; and that WH/Ill'a

interest la SCHWARTZ, at the same period of sime, was lto send him to2"

Havana]'to review some Cuban government flles in connection with (a)

CaBe being bandled by 1151 al C-6801%." A soration on CHDAs request

TOI & PCSA On SCHWARTZ, reade "'On 24 Feb. '58 MI. J. BREWER ol

C1/O1 adrided that upos Subject's roturn to New York City, the appro-

priate divlajos will contact him there on a fairly continulag baslo."

There lo no further indication la SCHWARIS'a flle as to what usa bes

boon roade of hím. SCHWARIZ in 1957 vas regiaterad ds an Agent of the

Dominican Republic in connecilos with his employmest by Morris L.

ERNST, Special Counsel for that country; and he was also regiatered some-

time daring the period 1955-1959 as as Agent of the Domialcan Repablic

in connection with bis association with & William H. MUNSON.

6. HILL and KNOWLION, "a publie relations firma coordinating

the publicity attending MIS, ALLISLUYEVA 's arrival her, " la the sub-

ject of Security flles $ 162356 and & LE 13791.. This Arm, which is sald

z

SECRET

ZIBR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

to bo one of the largest public relations firmo in the world, was of interest

in November 1957 and again in May 1960 is connection with persistent te-

ports that 11 rOpresente the intereBro ol the Japanese Sociallat Party la

the United Statas. In Novembox 1957, the PIlme Minister al Japan var

attemptlag to find out shether os not the reporte vero valle, and in slay

1960, FI/JAO/OPS sovised that that office vasin receipt of information

that the firm tas registered with lho Department of Justice so la agent

of the Socialiat Party of Japan and requested information se to the sature

of the relationship, tho identity of the individuals involved, ete. Each

tlme, security advised that HILL and KNOWLTON, Int, had Basumed

control of Edward W. GARRETI and Associatos, InC. A public rolatione

counseling firm, in March 1955; that this firma served as public relatiose

counsel for the Office of the Consulate General of Japan from October

1953 to March 1955, Rad that HILL and KNOWLTON had castinuad this

relationship "to the present tims" (January 1958). 'It was noted that HILI.

and KNOWLION slao representod lhe Sues Canal Compasy, the Soctote

de L'Exposition Universelle el International de Bruselles, and the Develop

'ment Beard of the Bahamas. In 1956 the firm announced the formation

of a now publie relations firm HILL and KNOWLION INTERNATIONAL

with headquartere la The Hague and offices la Düsseldort.

1.. The osly reference la Security Indicos to HARPER and ROW.

publishereof STALINA'a book, la that ln too Indices cardo, coples of

which aro attached.

8. The ladividusl who appears to be masterminding STALINA's

vlait to this country and the publication of her book la George F. KENNAN.

# 31883(0 & C), former U.S. Ambausador to the Soviet Union. It was

he who secommended Priscilla Jabason MACHILLAN tO HARPER and

ROW aN OnE of five Russlan-speaking experte. MT. KENNAN seeMS to

bo acting la concert with EdwardS. GREENBAUM, WhO beCame STALINAS

personal counsel after viaiting her la Switserland.

A. D. Stovens

Attachments - 2

Att 1 - Clippiage

Att 2 o Coptes of 2 Indices cards

MDS: a pk

3

---

