# 104-10188-10048

## Page 1

104-10188-10048

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

PROJECT ACTION

POOJECT

APPOOrAL

_WH DivIsion

translatona

Mexico Clty

Mexico_

RA8E95109

8000:4?001

C/NH/3/Mex|co

C/WH/3

WII/BEF

WH/SS

-WH/FI/PO =

C/WH/POA

C/WH/OPS

C/WUD

_C. Bustos

PIRUIVATION

3B0001

Hidgs.

_CONCURRENCES OF OIVISION

TV:: 1118891070800

DATE

B. T. Re

Reichliardt

26 Ls. M. Witton.

.47.207

_Robert cartor V

Kie-t Cat

W. Brooks_

03 [Rutr he Geary ]

Atta.

100109106

5940

Hilltan_Hood

109L. 64

14Fb

Ve-Ce King

¿iNCURRENCES.

OMPONENTS

FI star:

228 0:

3: Bighes

112°

- E. etcer 7 03

ir carpo.oru

LIENVOY

:2264

2/008/F3

PERICA

¿ Feb 64

ADDP

APPROVAL

TOTAL ANINT

31 Jsn 65

1$ 26, 538.

Tikarames:

SECRET

SUPINT

-0-

::25: 8 26,538.

• DATE

in Agrift y

198

5/00

---

## Page 2

14-00000

nois said tinia

SEGFET

DUE/PO/FI

• Apr c4

FROJECT EMISSING

PROJECT:

ACTION :

PURPOSE:

LIENVOY

ADDF approval of renews!

WH - Mexico

2415eb 64-31 Jan 55

BACK-

GROUND :

FUNDS

Jurins the past year,

Headquarters

approved a plan to

move

Intercept center

¿or security

reason

and replace

the older

until

equipment.

ints move has

reen held in abeyance

be elected

To enter a ben intens.

heid with the new president wito

the sccurity of the

Fron

I February 1903

January 196+,

25: reports vore disseminated.

NH/3

evaluates the product as valuable and covering a wide

range or topics. The centor covers 20 iines all of which

are oi intered, to ClA and approximately one-hali are

include communist and

lertist leaders, the local

and Yugoslav embassies.

laisonTrelationghl

costered by the project contributed

to the riendly attitude oi the dexcan government toward!

the Ü.5.J24

No additional runds are requested for

there are surpiclent runds remaining from the

pasi approval to cover she $20,55u required under this

renewal request.

Tobal project period:

$47,063

Salaries

$25, 454

Kmas

bonus

2,320

Operational expenses

12,594

AP

vehicle

satenouse

1,200

2,500

24

SEGRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECHET

PREVIOUS

APPROVALS:

1 Feb 53 - 31 Jan 64

1

1

Feb

31 Jan 63

Feb 61

31 Jan 62

1

Feb 60

31 Jan 61

1

Feb 59 -

31 Jan 60

$70,068

43,240

59,690

23,840

163,53°

STAFF

COMMENTS:

FI and CI Staffs concur in renewal.

FI STArF: The project continues to be highly pro-

ductive of positive

intelligence, as well as opera.

tIonal leada and cICE Inforniation.

Yugoslav embassles.

CI STAFF:

Agrees with the Station's action in

delaying the planned move of the Intercept center.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

5 liarch 1204

(l'onorficial liaisen and audio operation)

1. F1/In files consain 295 nositive infomation disseninations

ovidai mioir or in nar: ir Project. LIMVOY during the 13 month:

• Januam l through Januar: 1904 (FIIM's Feoruan 1903 assessment of

the production ras for caleniar year 1962). Of the 295, there were 177 es

and Ili Is disseminations oring information of unique authenticity

on various subjecks of inselligence interest. LIS:VOT's most valuable

sporting arzosis io be tha: concerning Cormunist activity in its variou

sece a tie larican Corrunist Paruy (PCM) and ius marchinese faction;

unn Popular socialisü Part: (FPS) and its leador Vicenie LOB-WO joledano:

wich his apparently close ies ith the lexican roverrment and with

chinese and gian commerces;

ile anti-Us, pro-cuba tasional Liberation

and its leader coumer Hexican president, veneral lazaro

aDams del for and the setarities uni propaganda eriors of chinese

and cuban sorrisis.

There des also roporting on the trarel via lexico

•individuals tron ouires courios of latir America to ¿:

mo-dovei Ploc countries izyecoronic transactiong betweedito farall

Gues; disconcer anong peas.

, labor and stakent Croups; faid the irans-

miscal of a bi-mge

docurani on luxico economic and social siluauion.

i LETO: bao provided a signifiernt volume o coliable

intelligenco trioration which is of modorato and, in sere caiegories,

aÈ considerable and substantial value.

Get hat in

lecd inic

chier, rI/m/t

Excluded lis CiGare

02E9r17.

---

## Page 5

13 МАй 1964

MEMOPANDUM FOR:

assistut Deputy Director for Puns

'TEROUGIl:

SU:JEC'!:

DDP/ FG

FrojeCt LIE:VOY lienewal

1.

Tie PT

renicial of Projeer. 1 ElvOY.

Tils project continues to be highly produlie of postire

ine contibuted to

in a contine to recruitments ten in as ragon Jay sates.

LICYD GECT.CE

Chief

Forci:! Inteiligence

ittachment

Pruject,

---

