|104-10173-10078 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

So

we
17 June 1963
CONTACT REPORT: . VAGLOUCH/2, DI UBALDO, and DORENOSE,
pares 3 19 & 20 May 1983 : ; ao

PLACE | 4 Sends Hotel =
: Miami Beach, Florida -

1, . DOAEHOSB end DI UBALDO arrived vy; tamt at the sands |
Hegel at dpprontmataly 2330 hours and im the lobby passéd tho
Subject, her travaling ecapanioa, Hic, DI STLYA (nother of
_ Brasilien charge GAMBOA): ond Me, & Meo, Kurt PIASTERER (Seo
Contact Report dated 3 May 1963). with whom they had spent the
evening, While the. evo esse offleere were nagottating rocks,
with ths deak elork, VASLOUC/2 mado & point of asking for her
: - ney whieh fadicated her room musber and the esse officers wera
i - therefore able to get rooms on the floor fuse below here,
(#0T8:. Our coatacts with VASLOUCH/2 were dependent upon the
emovat of time sho could spend away fron, her unwitting eraveling:
eccipantoa.) As provicusly arranged, DI UBALDO went to the
Subjest's hotel room at 0700 hours the nest morning and drought
her to his roon where the debriefing took place, At ‘the oute
oat DORENOSE wae introduced ao Williaa Cline and it wae explained
thag DI WALDO wae moving out of the opsration, This inétial
esting which lasted uatil 0900 houra was confined primarily to
tee Copies; one, VASLOUCH/1's centaect with and eultivation of ah
Prenaiseo SANCHEZ who fo charged with geome road building projects

del Desysr

SECPET.



SEGRET.

ies
in Oriente Provineo ana who toa ‘eloso asgoctate of Dr. Rane
VALLEJO, a wey advioer to CASTRO. and bool the tededt Esoetane : |

taped o oa: the eeeend subject areas Sal pe

0 VASLOUCH/2 had beet ‘contacted ot thé Brasilien
“Babasey by Volentine $, LOGUINOY, ah attache at tho Soviet
Babsessy. These conteeta took place covery tie or threa menths
when LocuTIOW would bring visa ‘Fequoste fren bis Sxbaasy, “the.
loot of ‘these budinese contacts wae ia Pebdrvary of this year. ei
On 27 April, while VASLOUCH/2 waa in Uanies City, LOGUINOY:

: phoned, ehe Brasilien iabasey asking for vastoucn/2 and when
informed that cha vac not in, requéeted her hone’ phono maser |
(walioted) fron tho. girl answering the phone, HLlda SOLTVAa
(girl detend of SANCHEZ), ‘Tho girl refused 'to give out tha
maiber. et 1000 en 1 May, LOCUTEOV apparently having acquired |
tha number fron gho coamulsr List, ealled VASLOUCH/2 at her.

» home aly to be told that VASLOUCH/2 was working that wording.
at the Brasilien Babasay. Ba finally got. VASLOUCH/2 on the

- telephone at 1600 houre and seated that the date va: ‘an i
tmportane holidey for hin and that he wlehod to visie the

_ VASLOUGRES with his festly to bring a mall present for VABLOUCH/2.
LoGUTHOY and fecily arrived at VASLOLHI/2'» hows’ at 1900 boura
and steyed until 2100 hours. fhe praiimet: was a bottle of "Red

7 :

x

SECRET,



SECEET

Hoocou? parfuse. The ‘evening wae eoafined to owall talk. -Op
3 May, LOGUINOV agein called and wadd a dincer date with

“wp, the’ VASLOUCHES, ia chair private cat anid the evening (2130 - :

0030). ‘wae spent at: the Coprt ‘Restaurant. Because of the pote. * i 7

| firea the floor show,. again ltele ‘of note was: discussed, The -
cost of the masl wae approsinately $10. At the restaurant,

* LOGUINOV davited the VASLOUCHES te attend's feception and showing :

of ha Soviet passenger plane, ‘TU-116, to be ald at izsSo ea
14 Mey, WASLOUEH/2 Utd dot ettend: becaube she vas leaving for”
‘Miami. hea vasLouci/1 Colephoned VASLOUCH/2 in Wlent oa 17 Hay,
‘he Gaittoned, ‘ta:Geiuan, that Valentine hed again dropped by.

_ Prea these eontacts with LOGUIKOY tho following had boan
observed by VASLOUCH/2. He to approxinately. 32 yearo old,
speaks flvent Spanich, with Just @ slight: aecent and a little
Boglich. Ha hap been in Cuba three years ond was fluent ta

" Sidnioh when ha arrived. He ta approxizately 6 fest ‘esl, Weighs...

ebout. 185 Ibae, Serongly buile, has blisa eyeo blend wavy holr,
eoncsva forenéed, good ecoth, and dresecs: well eth cost and
aesktis, fe értvpe hiasolf ta ‘an American car (Dodgo?) with
inenediplocatia plates, le saokes and drinks in moderation. He”
bas a three and eaebaals year old soe, an elaven year old
dsughtex end his perente and bio witu"s pareats ero Living ta
Moseow, His wifes name is Aleusadérn, she rv attractive and
works ta the coasiler office. Her fpitigh ig poor. He vas
aware Ghat VASLOUCH/2 had viaited Heaiie recently end also mew
that the VASLOUCKES daughter was with, the Bedailian Sabassy ia

SEGRET

8 hor hus band for 10 May, LOCUIFOV and‘wife pieked



ST

Hoscov, Also that VASLOUCH/} had recently boen back to
Ono thing thet atayéd in V/2'e mind vas thet in: conversation

“with LOGUINOV he roferred’ on three-escasions to the possibility |
” ghat their daughter might very woll marry a Russten, 4 point
| hale’ qighe ‘relate to any. operational approach’ LOGUINOY may |
 aoko.to the VASLOWGHRS, V/2-stated that LOCUINOV was the caly

one that hed ever cous fo tha Brasilian Babsssy regarding visas.
She also stated thet over tha past yeera ahe hao called his
office four or five ties regarding visco and! tiaa never bosa.
able to reseh him, V/2.als0 recalled that during thoir outing
at the Capri Restaurant LOGUIROV stated thee he was planning to
rent. beach howse end weo's Looking fotwas to the VASLOUCTES
sponding tine with his and hie wifo theee during the sumer
genthe. V/1 inquired ag to: the hereabdute of the former

- FRAVDA ceérrespendent, Borovets, and van told he was in Moseow.-

2. The habacsador in Haobington ‘has | bean’ kept
infomesd en -LOGUIKOV's advances toward the stovauns, Rie only

comment at this point wes. thut "they aro aftar sozathing.® w/a

hse edvisca GARBOA whose reactioa has beca to, encourage the
relationship in hopes of acquiring soua polities! inforaa tion -

\ from LOCUINOV. The Anbassador aloo PAEALLAA/PAAELAMEEAS -

PULAE/oaLEAg/ Atl etated in hte “talephone coavercation with V/2
in Mias{ that he had requested tat the SLOUCHZS installaticn
ba elevated and given diplerati¢: status, Ha etpressed omprise

that afoppy of bis letter to itn Cutan Foreign Hiniotry had not
4 , :



SECRET =
been recelved by V/1 and proulsed a opsetol. dalivery copy of

it to V/2 in Miaat, Relating to thle, v/2 etocad to the C/o | &.
that ‘La ona of V/I's d ainiiiteesl with CORCHA of the Fovetga Office,

whieh he had pue on an overlay which vas. pagaed. by ¥/2 (oant
_ te SAS Reports). SANCHEZ had invited. wt to Oriente Provineo

: Reluctantly wo instructed V/2 to tell V/1 to turn Gown thie |

fora olallar imvitatioa tn the ‘future, It wee thought that

- discussed with V/2 in Mexieo City relating to its possible usa
aa a deed drop, A pauphlet eptitied, Liat a Expats and
Jauemta of suhen Zonelsa Seade Eagesariasas also wae passed,

there, V/2 was told by tho C/O that: after aS with,
Headquarters eonderning Locutnovis background, specific guidones -
on how to handle the relationship would be forthcoatng.

3. Frow-SANcUE2, V/i oltetted road building Lafonaation’

with. bin in she nsor future to see aone of ‘hie projects.
iuvitation on “gtounds of £11 health but to ‘Leave the way open

this was best until we could apsesa, LOCETHOV' e Anterest in. the’
VASLOUCHES,. V/2 alse passed the war nasise wh had eaeigned to
his princtpaleontacts and a diagram of the Brazilian ‘Buna say
including weasurements ef tha cut building which DI UBALDO. had :

(Sent to SAS/Reports.) i Sist of nse pasoed shoved numbers
and some other data on tise passingat's waten bad deportes
Cubs in two Cubena flight to Brandl ily thd purpose of picking
ep the Cubsn sporta ean ia Breall (annt to ‘BAS/RB).

3 few
SECHET



“waa alao, given: our inteial as

of tho Brosliten Babsosy. ¥/2 aceepitné We anse!

SECRET.

4, On 19 May DI. WALDO ipdeatinel to uachtagton. DORENOS’ ‘

wet wien W/Z on. 20 May, fron . 9700 = 0960 boure,
VEN the wEeYway sterile phone nunber | told thee alt :
‘i 2 made to Cline” alg th nunber, Sho
senant of the igalfteance of :

iDGUTHOV's. approach (the traces’ fron Headquarters had etill not

"bean reeeived), In.our opinion there were threa ponaibilities

and two of them wore unlikely, First, LOGUINOV's approach
gould ba an innocsat one and be merely for the purpose of
satabliohing 2 friendship, “ah Gxtension of thie: thought would ©
be: the poosibilicy of kia interestf{ig in defeating. Givéa the
gad : ). and weighing other factore,,

this was eonsidered walikely. Tha second posotbultey: io thee.
the Seviots: have bean ‘alerted, posoibly by Wita open coda
eable to to the SLOUCIES posaible tnvelvesient with

the Amdricans; This elso 1o-unlikely for heil {this baea the cose
the Ise thing the Sovicts sould wish to de would be to clert
the SLOUCHES to the fact that thoy wen ander ouspleton —
therefora bring about & eign thelr nuttettiess | (omeanre:

LOGUIMOV's siedden and faiely intensiw Waleiveetod effort hac: .

hod just this offeet.): The third ant wet Landly poastdiitey

te tha the Soviets ara qultivating WV/'t \or'usd ae a penetration
@ officer's :

6 eel

ec

SECRET

At: thie. “moating, . ‘



SECRET |

Senesement es valid end in keeping with her. owm thoughts. She

” wae told. that fisel gutderca on this watter; would be. given her”

at 6. ‘subsequent, eooting to be held in: the afternoon after
DoRmNOSE had Frecalved ‘the. Hesdquartors trac 7 Te atsciissten
then went to the communications. Seca :

. 6, Wren the Subject stated that hor busband was. unable
to bring out either the pade er his instructions oa how to use
the pads watch had teen given hin in New York, ie woo decided
to issue two, veduees size OTP's concealed io a shaving bir, :

sh instructicns os the tiaa.of the OTP wok be passed by

BARRER in Hexteo Chty, Bho was told that BARKER wend be in

thé lobby of tis Hiléen. Hoel. in Mexico City at 0730 oa-23 Hay,
When they have recogalaed eseb other che otould follow hia ‘ftoa

the Hotel, If RARZER ts usable to make the eoataat he is: to

telephone her later ia tho day waing the aera BETO, Subject was

tole thet we were unable ts eons up, aa yet, with an extended _
éunl-carphene sot which che bad ‘requested, but this would be,
available for the. next eentect later tn tho summer.:

7... Todard the end of the wooting, Subject passed traas-

Antions aha hed made of noted given hor’ by'¥/1 whthh ho believed.

te be of intelligence tnterest.. {They ara; inaloded as Attachzent
A). Unfortumately, DOREEOGE wae ‘asble to ruviey chess roparta
with her but ohe-was pursunded by turd over| | language
motes and tho carben copy of V/A!) latter to hia ambassador

( translation ef which ts Attagitent B), fhe C/O requested

the seza of a persen inl vito weald have raasea to write
te V/1 but who is met deing co at A\w present @ine. dha gove

SEGRET.'|



“Babjoct ‘stated that she would depart Mieul by Guest Atria

SEORET =

q oJ . ft
a
the nasa of V/1's aunt, She was told that somo

of ‘the ‘incoalag S/W -1n the future vould be written in ]
mailed in and esténsibly cone fron this. pesca,”

on'22 May 1963, The wseting was csaiducted burtiedly ind:
neceesarily Hdd conchuded at 0900 ‘poure..- Plane were made for

the Subject to return tor a brieg contact with ‘DORENDSE betwean -
1830 apd 1600 house after Finding pose exeusa to get avay fiom
: her cospanion, = F

8, Subject wae "usable to break away fro her companion
in tina to: ake the schoduled masting and when she, telephoned
to 20. notify SORENOSE abe was erroneously (stormed by the hotel.’
desk thet DORENOSE hud checked out. Aftor sowa difficulty,

“-PORENOSS was able to sontect her and a bride meoting was held
‘ae 2 2100 hours, is wea at thte seating that: instructions were

given V/2 to tighten up on thate socurity’ ‘elting the dangers
of audio-surveillance snd the necesotty for great care when
matling the letters-out, Per her bauefit, KUBARK security ta

: dealing Mieth her edse wan exphasized, Sho Baa also instructed
. to reset with disbelief nuabined with. indignation 1f a recruit>
nant’ piteh was wade to either of thea, She waa also urged not

to inesurage further aoe‘il eantace ‘vith the LoGUINOV's in
hopes that LOGUIROV would loge interest, She waa advised that

her daughter should bo anivuraged to Liave Noscow 1f the
: :

_ SECRET



SECRET

Bradilian Acbacce¢oz. te transferted in Inte fell, If thio does. }
Rot come. off, wien ¥/2. visite: her daughter in the fall sha should
ieee under oane Previn, te, have ‘her daughter leave. Russ

oe tavel venient ‘with opvorg. “On the eontrary,. phe woe very foremate
: te have us to advise her en how best to desl with her problea, ie
¥/2 waa eoncerned about her daughter because her daughter had

‘wot soelally with en OUACID offcer in Hoseow newed Richard
Jeeebs who hae. etkes been png'd by the Sovicte. ‘Yhen-asked.
about other eoutect’: of har daughter's ta Moscow obs otated
that her daughtér wso in love with, one of tha UAR Rabasoy
secretarics who hed left Hoseow and waa presently avaigned in
Tokye. She mentioned that ancther UAR. secretary otatiined tn.”
Moseos named SALAH ond .the Coastlar, Ania Hausa wera séquaintances.
Alse a sceretary of the Mentcan’ Esbaday naned ammando cAnTU. fi.
eee Sho mentioned that during hér scheduled fall viatt to sco ber
> daughter’ che’ had’ proalesd to take her daughter to Tokyo te =.” !
viele hor bey fricad, This-uad complignted however because this | Hee
@ould {ofuriste ¥/1 vho 1s stredgly against the dsughtér marrying < :
a Moalén, Subject eso given’ 950, to off-ct tant fares, the. ’
a cost of an.entenna, and for.good will, Tha meeting was cone | nee
i sluded ae 2L97 when Hrs. DE SILVA was scheduled to get out i J
of the bathtub. Two other names wf possible interest were :

i
i



ae



egeaseaay E _ ao 1H
rateed by ¥/2 during the ttl HOWRARALA, @ Finnish -
foasle atudent’ tn Heys and:a. rabid Communist and Joha. BETTI,
an Baglish national wet by W/2 in Mexico City. RETTI, “a writer’
ter the. *Reonomlae® and aa ep leyeo of tho lac | wae once married
- 6-4 Finn. RETTI wae being adsigned. io Havana, a adéres on
” tm Naxteo Clty: P.0, 1642 Hexteo City as Morice.” Telephone. |

" mmber, 4652025,

I
i



* gent to Fast Germany and from there to ' ‘Cuba,

‘de loa Patios ; fot

i
Us Source: Planes Nagueras Pleero Caubsoures not AaIE 7
Spare parts frow Farland ara rent to Monterey (Mextes), then to
Yucatan and efter that to tstes Maseras and from there the Cuban
Elsner take them to the Tale of Pines. : nite

2 \Soittee: "Francisca Sanchez, Cihan road construction
engineer = {n discussing procurement ‘of replacement, parts for hia,
equipriant stated {f the Amerteans have ‘a Bubsi@tary factory, for.

‘example Catapillar, with a factory in Euroge, the. spare parte are.”

a i}

\ : : ce es
1 3, -Souree: Blanca’ The Neadquatters of the Rusatane 12
in a tunnel at 36th Street, No, 62 on the corner of Street 39, ~
tt has two entéances, one from the Flver and. the ether from the

house 7 Me J. Dhan. . 7

4. Source: “Blanca = Thete ta’a Tluthin 28 in San Antonio

5. Source: Blanca - A former wathoat Assembly tho Note:
or Cuban equivalent) member, They dare, stated that the refugee”

ship that wént to Florida on 2% Pprleareted two sovernrent sponte,
_ Jase Praz (el caso) and htwife Yolanda |Claneros, whose addresa,

“Be No. 7418 Avi nue 15.

ee 7 i
“6, Orlando Puente, the private ae ‘forrer President ©
Prio, approached CAMTO.'s mother in Miami on DB Mav stating chat
hefore she departed the country he would give hem the nane.of
Cuban asanctate af Prlo nh to in much trouble and wants art
' a

in the Brant tian EMDASAYS .
Chief of

un Source: VASLOUCH/T = on 4 May Sduarda Corona
7U that he |

the’ Occidental Furopean Countries Office stated to Slo
planned in the rear future to give a luncheon for the Northern
European diplomats and at that lurcheon hie would puroose that the

Northern countries put on an expositton An Cuba
cultural and economte achieverents. ‘

SECRET

AAD HAAR H
4

Dene foanaces enmn eee Renaainag.. aS

os

covering each countries Ee

see:
