Viod-10437-10091| | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

N. noe MN . .

c . : pao

/ 4. T USSREATON : PROCESSING ACTON -
DISPATCH SECRET
anne rox oes
ig
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division XK —_|wo moexns reaver,
iF, ail fonty quaureo oesx
Chief of Station, Wi/siaml’ arcummoe
FROM a
Chief of Station, Mexico City 04 “~ icon
amr
O Target Study?

RETO REGUTRED- REFERENCES

References: HMMA-38920, 25 May 1970, Previous Target Study
HMMA-39753, November 1970, Details of Cuba Month
UPAA-2430, 22 October 1970, and related correspondence

D
“MICROFILME! concerning Miami Station Contact with
§ pec2s ion relatives in Miami

a joa ww
pec. MICK = a
Forwarded under separate cover is the up-dated Target Study
onl and his
wife, and Charsé.
As is clear from the attached study end the log of activities of
during October 1970, is extremely busy, has many contacts, and is
probably one of the more accessible meubers of the Cuban Embassy. On
the other hand, he is so busy with his overt activities working with
press watters, and handling the Cuban Embassy side that
the Station does not believe he has practically any time free for intelli-
gence assignments. (Since the arrival of the Cultural Attache in
has dropped ell cultural activities. He no longer
handles the He is on the phone with
or visiting the offices several times each day. { He
arranges for subscriptions to publications (magazines and newspapers)
from the United States and Ietin American countries
..and he orders books from various bookstores in Mexico City. He also
chendles the press material. including news film, comtng to Mexico vie
~ commercial flights from representative in Peru. He

orders photographic and other related supplies in Mexico and New York,

and handles visas for newsmen does
lot to help as he does not have his own secretary. As can be seen <

from the attached log, twice he dictated a cable over the phone for her t&
type for his signature, It is believed that when she returns in the
afternoon to the Embassy with it is to help him.

1.

*HNOY VIOF 2}

218s 834
“o éci-Feal 4aqwny yusuntoog

) coo * Continued. ..++

Attachment:
/ Target Study u/s/c -

Distribution:
v Orig, & 1 - Chief, WHD (left half,: h/w; right half, u/s/c) (att., u/s/c)
oI. 1 - COS, WH/Miamt (left half, h/w; right haif, u/s/c) (att., u/s/c)
a aa
Rass eeeRENE TO TTSPATGH STHBGL AND WOMBER ome
fis HMMA - 39809 2 December 1970
7 CUASSIFICATION HOS FILE NUMBER
201-337669

SECRET }P P-hO6L FEN



13-00000

{es Po Se

CONTINUATION OF-

“CLASSIFICATION ‘BisF  WEYMBOL AND NUMBER
DISPATCH

SEGRE HMMA - 39809

1 y QWi— AleDOv4

2, The LIEMBRACES fave suryeilled (aite often, and only one
unusual contact wag notedy, That. was 8 threg/hour luncheon with an
argentine leftist , “Maxim SON Grinberg / a foreign-correspondent.

.-~ "than with another Embasav, employee, which is more often the rule with
the other officers. usually goes with his wife on errands during
the lunch hour or in the afternoon before returning to the Eubassy.
These errands are on personal business such as to the furniture store,
suyer market, optics, doctor, etcs but also on business, such as to
bookstores. days are very long, as can be seen from the attached
log.

3, While are very busy and have many contacts, they
do not seem to make close personal friends, and the persons with whom they
are in contact appear almost exclusively to be business contacts. The
Station has been unable to locate any person who might make a good access
agent to None of the Station's agents mentioned in paragraph 6 of
HMMA-38920 were close to ‘The closest companion would be the Subject
of 201-860095. The Station is reporting separately on its attempts to
develop and recruit this person,

i

4, The Station has even considered approaching, maid,
especielly when it became known she was so unhappy with her lot as a
servant. However, since the maid almost never leaves the apartment and
she is virtually inaccessible, the Station has been unsuccessful in
having any asset establish any degree of rapport with her, although a
contact of LITAIN-2 has been able to engage her in telephone contact
ana hopes to date her eventually.

5. Since the Station believes that| jis almost entirely
dedicated to press affairs, and no jeally good access agents are in
view. the Station will not make a priority effort to develop an entre into

circle except via the operation now underway to recruit 201-860095.
If this operation is successful, the Station would have an excellent asset
in frequent contact with for albetter personal assessment and
information or assignment Until this
type of information becones avatiablo, however, the Station believes it
has identified role as almost ly press, and we have been unable
to detect any vulnerability data on leither or his wife.

|

‘CLASSIFICATION PAGE NO,

rons
Bes, 53a USE PREVIOUS EDITION. fol
a8) SECRET. continues 2 of 2



a



13-00000

:



13-00000



13-00000

it


13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000





13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000





13-00000



13-00000







13-00000





13-00000



13-00000







13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000

40



13-00000



13-01

}0000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000



13-00000

oy



1

3-00000

