# 104-10183-10398

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10183-10398

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCT:ONS

PRIOR TO FIUNG

1. Fill in Sect 2. on back. Dotach back lap and

2. Destroy

-unless it rocords

signitican: action laken or comments requir.

ing preservation.

FROM:

RID/AN

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE

BACRIVRO ! roamAnoRa

PRETTIALS

TO: ACTION BRANCH

I tie no. and title shovin are nol proper, la-

seit proper file no. below and lorward dos

vincat to RIDIAN.

PREPER PILE NO.

TO: AIL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPMIATE

COMMENTS

3 copes fud WE/3

TO

WH/C/ES

2.

ROOM

NO

15

26.5:

MICROFILMED

AFK 15 1JU5

isn't sintify.

8.

AJa 123. 1955

10.

Rin/ AN

12

RI/MIS

13.

Clim

az

Aislease changs bile

annaber to

201-267956

6507594533

RATE

RN,27

ESTAGE A

PiLe Tital

256722550 167156

ALUTCAIR

o0n.

COFPA> 79010

zz

SECRET

1801

---

## Page 2

14-00000

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

?: SECRET.

10

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXIMO

ESM

PleC, H5: Galet as Station, Madria 5-2

NO INDEXING REQUIREO

ONLY QUALIFIED. DESE

CAN ¡UDICE INDEXINO

aulet at Station,

MICROFILM

RETION REQUIREO ' REFERENÖIS

KEYWAY/PERUMEN/AMNIIP - New Arrival at Cuban Embassy Peris

ACTION

REFERENCE:

FYI, and for identification if possible

COrPAy 7¿922, dated 6 Apr11 1965

A: FRANCE, PARIS

22 cy. attaches:

DC8: C41937 .

PLE CLEA?

CCi " DiPL

CIT CIGA

021. On 2 April 1965, AMWHIP/1 réported to Paul K. STOCKWOOD that

UNSNAPU/19 had Identifled a neM diplomatie secretary at the Paris Guban

Embassy: The Individual's first nane 10

*Enrique, (lau, for the moment)..

ANWHIP/i states that the Individual is about 27-2i years of ase, about

5°, " rather

stout in build and has dark skin "like that of a Hindu."

?. Although the names reported in this dispatch and reference are not

the same, perhaps they could be tied together as the one reported in reference

could have been garbled in transcription. Until we have confirmed the identity

of the tho in question, we shall work under the assumption that there are, in

fact, two people Involved.

NICROFILMED

MPR 1 5 1965

DOL. MICRO. SER.

PaulaS Miles

PAULA S. MIRRLEDS

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Distribution:

2 - DC, WH-SA

- Chier, WE

2 - COS, (Madr1d)

15-2

Carlig

Cince the

Commercial Collec

"Li "ino, EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND

• / DECLASSIPICATION

act emine

isolad

26 Cy

146%.

is who was

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO NUMBER

OF$ - 79010

CLASSIFICATION

8369120-20

BL-267954 APR & 1962

6 April 1905

HOS FILE NUMBER

, SECRET

---

