“'404-10130-10312) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

00 DISTRICT
(CATEGORY OF REPORT) (FIELO OFFICE) ,

case no. 104 887 DATE

TARASOFF, Boris D, 2k June 1963
PERIOD OF INVESTIGATION

2h June 1963
OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DISTRICT
REPORT MADE BY

Do Not Reproduce

7260 GHG use reevious corrions.

(Jed


. According to informant, any. official. transcripts

104 887 2 July 1963

GENERAL
At Washington, D.C.

0G On 24 June 1963, educational records in the name of
[Barbara T. TARASOFF] daughter of Boris D. TARASOFF, were 44 og
made available by [Miss Virginia RONSAVILIE, Assistant Prin- ‘
_cipal_of Woodrow Wilson High School] These .records reflected
that (Barbara TY TARASOFF has been a student at this sch
since |September 1961, at which time she transferred from!
Kramer Junior High School.] She has completed her tenth
and eleventh grades (at Woodrow Wilson High School. 1]

Scholastic reoords further disclose that her father, Boris
Dmetri TARASOFF is employed as an analyst, U.S. Government,
2430 E Street, N.W. Her mother's employment is reported as
Clerk, U.S. Government, 2430 E Street, N.W.

6
[uiss RONSAVILIE ‘tated that an unofficial transcript
was given to [Barbar&°TARASOFF]in June 1963, which reflects
her father's employment as analyst, U.S. Government (no address
given). This transcript does not reflect her mother's employ-
ment. a
06

[Miss RONSAVILIBJadvised that to date, no official trans-
scripts have been issued to, or on behalf of Berbara-] 26
contain
the same information as the unofficial transcript, concerning
the employment of Boris D. TARASOFF, to wit., analyst, U.S.
Government.

DHW/mew
