# 104-10165-10427

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10165-10427

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TOIA:

caries.

F: EO MESESSE

•SECRET

_=-

ÜNdT

_Fie

&Y

• CI 1

ST:

CA

HH

39Ã0

Delwiilsz'3

Dor, VR, FiLE

Sac

SECRET 2S2335Z

DIR CITS XAVE 2439

3052H83864

BErtING 22 SEP SA R0SI1IO CISTEROS DIAZ TOLD ARRAZZ-1

THAT O'IS SEPT HE HAD LENG CONVERSATICS WITH BILL BOUDLER OF STATE

DEPI.

SOLDLER TOLD CISNEROS CUESS SSIE GOING TAKE LONS TIRE SOLVE.

#I FURTHER MENTIONED THAT FEOPLE AT STATE WHO HAD ALYAYS LIKED MIXOLO

RAY AND HAD TRUST IN HIM VERE DEEPLY LISAPPOINTED HIS FAILURE REACH

CLe: 3Y 23 MaY.

2. ACCOSULE CISTEROS, NUMBER OF NEVSVEN INCLUDIG AL BURT DE

KIARI HERALD MID TED BODICER. OF AP HAVE REGUESTED HIS MAKE STATETENI

AS TO WHY HE LEFT JURE.: CISNEROS SAID HE WOULD NOT MAKE SUCH STATEMENT

SECRUSE HE DIS GOT WANT INTERFERE WITH ANY PLANS RAY MIGHE HAVE.

CISTEROS, MIMEBLE, EXPRESSED DEEP DISAPPOINTNENT VITH PAY"'S FAILURE

CARSY THROUSH WITH 23 KAY PLAN AND TOLD AKRAZZ-I THAT RAY LED EVERY-

ONE SELIEVE HE HAD SURE-FIRE MAY GETTINE TO CUBA BUT EVIDENTLY DID NOT

PLAN THINGS IGO VELL.

3. CISTEROS SAID THAT IN LESS THAN ONE MONTH TORE PEMEERS OF JURE

WOULD LEAVE DISASIZATIOS, ECLUDINS COL- VARILA CASTRO, RAUL CHIBAS,

OSORTO DAVILA AND PUENTE SMAYCO. CHAVE COMMENT:

A smart CL

CiSNOlOS 03 AR

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 83504 PAGE 2

28568-64.)

4. CISNEROS SAID HE ABCPTING SEHOLARSHOP OFFERED HIM BY STATE

DEPT TO STUDY ENGLISH AT UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO.

SECRET

Omarch, an

dicupteus кискиск

to knew of

53

- SECRET

---

