# 104-10072-10314

## Page 1

AAAAA

104-10072-10314

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTIOP

SECRETRY BAT

MARKED FOR INDEXING

:0

iNFO.

Chief.

- HOLTHE

Chief, NOtUSE; Chief, BUR Division;

FROM

chief of Station tondon

Chief, ICPIPII/London

SUBJECT

HEALFHA/LEPROBE/RODIGAST

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES.

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESX

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

References OBPA-1058, dated 17 April 1968

vie

RODIGAST reports that the assassination of DE. Martin

Iuther King had a dramatic and profoundly disturbing impact upon

The moans forale loader !.

(of the Sicc girls In Paits, flew to the U.S. several days later

in order to be there the action is."

* She does not plan to

return but was very impressed by her stay in Paris saying that

she will try to persuade other SNCC members to avail themselves

of the valuable experience to be gained from working with the

Tarious, revolutionary groups in Paris., As we foresaw in Reference

this has left the SNCh group in the joint hands of IDINIlTIRs A ll

te

and S of Reference.

Invitations have poured in to speak at

various neetings and it appears likely that IDENTITY A of

one was reuesent duct at many Of these meedtugse"

importance in the Black comnity in Paris is indicated by the

prominent place accorded her in the memorial service for Dr.

King (Sae under separate cover attachment 1) Needless to say.

this renders all the more pressing an early decision on the

proposal contained in Reference.

2. He call your attention to the attached clipping from

the 24 April Le Monde which reports on a press conference held

by james Forewan, head of the International Affairs department

of Sice, to announce a meeting supporting Black For to be

held at la nitualite on 29 April and to be addressed by Jean

Paul SaItIe: QRPFOTO/1 told RODICAST that there had been some

Attachments: 2

I - Menorial Service Program (u/s/c)

? - Le Monde clipping h/w

Distribution:

1

LE/HOLIME w/atts

- C/NONUSE w/atts

1 - C/EJE H/atts

CROSS REFERENCE TA = COB/ONCON I/

/CONTINUED. /

TEM SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OEPA:109%

CLASSIFICATION

Read,

DATE

7536

29 AariJ 1968

HOS FRE NUMBE

SECEST/IYBAT

100-6148/3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRE TRYBAI

OEPA-1097

confusion regarding. Sartre's willingness to speak.

He had

to be held at the Theatre National Populalre and there was

a question regarding his willingness to switch to this more

political atnosphere. The "gala" (see earlier report, paragraph

C of OEPA-918) 1s now being planned for some time in May.

TENTLIS

cos Reference 1a reported by RODSCAST to be

working with foreman in planning for the Mutualite meeting.

She is 80 busy that she has temporarily left her chila with her

mother

IDENTITY Of Reference is also said to be working on

another project possibly involving travel wich is confidential

at this point.

Adrian B. MASLOTT

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Siti

Tris

HEREWITH ATTACHMENT

TO: OEPA-1097

NOGING E? RAVEUR

DU & POUVO. NOIR »

TE 29 AVAL A LA MORUAUTÉ

Al cours d'una conférence de

Presse

connde lundl d

Paris,

M.

Jumes Foreman, arcien président

Cornite

coordination

aujourd"hui responsable des as

aujourd'hui

faires

responsable

internationales

C.C..

annoncé

qu'un

meeting

en faveur du « pouvoir noir' » 32-

rait lieu à la Mutualité, le 29 avril

20 heures. Outre M.

Foreman,

qui est également « ministre des

affaires étrangères » du parti des

Panthères notres,

saire, Daniel

MIL

Aimé Cé-

Guérin,

Jean-Paul

Sartre et

Vercors

participeront

notamment à

cette

réunion

cours de laquelle

ront projetés

:

deux

Now,

films

au

Farez, et

Jazz

de

S.

Al-

Au cours

de

d'avant-garde.

sa conférence

de

presse, M.

Foreman

évoqué le

meurtre du pasteur King.

ple di génocide

que

commet

contre les Noirs américains « la

société

exploiteus

blancie

TO-

ista », et l'adoption par le

Con-

grès

américain

interdisant

du

projet de 101

discrimination

ra-

ciale dans le logement.

Ce texte.

de loi contient en

effet

un

cer-

tain nombre de clauses répressi-

ves visant,

selon M

Foreman,

« liquider » les leaders

noirs.

M.

appel

Foremon & aveur

également

de

lancé

un

plusieurs

membres du parti des

Panthères

noires

emprisonnes

Oakland

(Californie), à la suite d'une fu-

sillade avec la

police le 6 avril

dernier, qui a fait un mort — un

jeune Noir de

dix-sept ans. !

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT 1 TO:

OEPA- 1097

AMERICAN COMMUNITY SERVICE IN MEMORY

OF

THE REV. DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING

PASTOR - CIVIL RIGHTS LEADER - HOLDER OF THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE

8 APRIL 1968

THE CALL TO WORSHIP - The Rev. Robert A. Spencer - American Church

Prayer

of Invocation

The Lord's Prayer

HYMN No. 429 "For All the Saints" (vIs. 1-5)

Sine Nomine

PROCLAMATION OF THE PRESIDENT

The Honi Woodruff Wallner,

OF THE UNITED STATES

Chargé d'Affaire - U.S. Embassy

OLD TESTAMENT LESSONS - Canon James McNamee: - American Cathedral

Psaim 90

Daniel 3:16-25

PRAYERS - Dean Sturgis Riddle - American Cathedral

MESSAGES FROM THE FRENCH CHURCHES

The Rev. Dr. Charles Westphal - Federation Protestante de France

MgSr.

Julien Gouet - Roman Catholic Diocese of

Paris

Pastor Henri Vincent- Eglise Baptiste de France

NEW TESTAMENI LESSONS - The Rev. Dr. Clayton E. Williams,

Pastor Emeritüs - American Church

"Romans 8:31-39

Matthew 10:24-39

INTHEM & The Choir

"Psalm of Penitence" From King David by Arthur Honegger

(Mercy on me, o Lord; pity,

according to thy great compas-

sion.

Wipe

away my transgression; cleanse me unto the depth

of my iniquity.

In sin was I conceived.

In evil was I

"born.

And thou wouldst have a pure soul?

I have sinned.

Thou hast taught me thy wisdom, and I have failed in my weak-

ness.. Mercy on me, O Lord.")

// TRIBUTE TO DR. KING - Mrs. Carline Polite - American Author

FROM AN ADDRESS BY DR. KING - Washington, D.C., Aug. 28, 1963

Read by Mr. Neville

Aurelius - Actor

PRAYERS - The Rev. Martin v.B. Sargent - American Church

HYMN - "'We Shall Overcome"

Negro Spiritual

We shall overcome, we shall overcome,

We shall overcome

some day.

Ch,

deep

in my heart I do believe

That we shall overcome someday.

We shall. live in peace, we shall live in peace,

We shall live in peace

some

day.

Oh, deep in my heart I do believe

That we shall live in peace some day.

He shall brothers be, we shall brothers be,

We shall brothers be.

some day.

Oh, deep in my heart I do believe

That we shall brothers be some day,

RECESSIONAL - The 23rd Psalm

A book of condolences is in the chapel to your right

for those who wish to sign it..

---

