‘104-10173-10107

~ FILE ‘TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUN

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


#1035.
ste 23 AUGUST 1972

{DLE Beene ransay citoaRMInATION-,

ie SALLY ANN BROWN:ne ?
un £/BC f :

Th 7 Aha oo “quad
c/EURBC i actin sooieeen Z Vg/Bce

baer 2of- Bag i

RELEASING OFFICER Sectgreteg a
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIGITED.



“CABLE SLCRETAWIAT DISSEMINATION ( 4s

Fimouwar init

‘URNAL TST/WRITER™ AND
NET Tot ON QcCASIONAL pasts. |


uessacerone 7 SE 6

E/DC. sechetedh
1038:

Dh mote. Ono biter

AOKE BREREVAMIAT DISSEMINATION:

teehee 8) rien ce rue ng:—201: 256092

) SURI REF OTHER THAN THAT. !'- >
§ MARCH’ 1971 WHECH BASED ON. ORLA
ae : ”

er “

ROINATING OF

» RFLEASING OFFICER
: SECRET 7
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED,





BE meres eS yer,



ih CER a TOR a a atte MO LS

2 SECRET

NGOLD. in: that dispatch.

both’ French. af
Subject ‘also’said they had been in Pai

“were accompanied b:

F Subject opened the conversation by saying that
che had known IDEN C in: Moscow rather, well.:
‘Was even collaboration on several det ce they .; -
IDEN.C. recently’ did a aeries of arti,

"In fact,

they enjoyed speaking. to each othe
together o1
_ Vacation ‘although “(the writer) does: not. know if they”:
v(The Writer) ‘asked

The ‘feriow fig 1tems have been extracted from OLRA 56011
“dated 1972. These are the only referénces

answered _
“He





| p. a CED

peas eran)
Q ee
‘
rs Peeper sevnsasvenseoncse
1. STAPF seseaeeaee a DIRECTOR “790863. :
vow: Poorel wo: ms, SES, 1 Ome steno 7 ;

O serence PER

a Denn 6
Tot PARES.¥

oe

FILEs “2dy-25e092s ‘zo heesen:: E2/INPDET od

y freee ssraéoucnon sr ort Te ee Fae OFFICE
“CONFIDENTIAL



T=D-E TeA-L
hén Filled In

“ Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

\ta accordance with the DDO's notice of 9. December 1974,
i_have: reviewed the 201 file on Kotwas 4: (surname)
(201 nunber indicated. below), a Have determin That ie can
Bost accuratesy be. categorized’ as. Indicated belo ee

“f Witting collaborator. di Céde Aly

potential bhatt collaborator; date | opened
OI Code A2.

Bs : : 2 glee
goustotlaedtateanes case (i.e,
intelligence or sécurity service}=

Ls
. Cie potential. wht in ¢
a feasons, derogatory ‘ine
CI)

all others. 01’ Code AG.”

Signed__ sins) 197.
: Gaitiais). (date) ~
This document t's’ a permanent part of this file. ~
201- ASCOT A
2 : £2 IMPDET
When Filled In CL BY 054979

‘C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

¢. tonticee: (security? aries
Cade, MAouege



ADYANCR
ACTON UNIT

63395 ©

Seppe aT

Ho 1g2ee yah 76 STARE

Kis. :
cite it 1S baht paylend

tot DiReCT Uns

RyaaT Gxtup uneatio

i Pea EARLIER STATION REPORTING), WHERE we HAG contact wate

HE humana d patty TIMES: ony aes

TCVRAR not 1 De TEBMINED) «© .
ae KE COGMETAG of kecTives eG ARDY contact win,

~ JOURNALISTS, ND’ SUBVECT To HEADGUARTERS CONCURRENCE,-

CAN KORENGOLD bE CONTACTED AnD aSKED-FOR ANY INFORMATIONS

EVEN THUUGH LATED, HE_CAN RECALL ON REENTKOV' AND RIFE? taeda

S. SEVENAL TIMES DURING THE KAURENICS FIVESHOUR

secReET


= ADVANGE Copy Bouse MOTTE.
ACTION Uney
"Hy

RI

FILE va

eeviKova BROUGHT up WITH MRS, “nauRgiie. eR ‘intenest

Le "AvEWICAN Fashrows, NETTING. MACHINES, ADJUSTABLE “SEWIN
MANNEGUL AND FASHION. MAGAaINESS ‘SHE VERY TALENTED KNITTER ore
2 eames TU “SmEATENS, Ne Aa IHG. Cone. 710 s seas paeech

HDISCUUNT® PRICES OF SAME FOR

ware Tsted STe0- IN “padubain

LIN MOSCOR, “THEY. HAVE Ty SET, PLAYED sreeta -RECORDS- ON.

PH ICTS Tuan TABLE AND Tale SPEAKERS» INCLUDING RAY: ‘coNNIFE -

7 a PRE TAT un’ oF RUSSIAN: Sones. ALSO aganixov “BROUC aT ‘out

ele RADLO/ CASS ET TE. PLAYER ‘vengeveem HUMPERI MINK: PLUS: -

aN rom CORTINA IN- mee HE RECENTLY: ~

ae SONGS), THEY

INSTALLED mab

. De PUUCHING fe PORT ON ATMOSPHERICS oF DINNER.
KkeNIxuvS ACCEPTED CHRISTMAS DINNER INVITATION TO.

nAURUNICS UN ZS DECEMBER BUT CANCELLED AT LAST MINUTE

secret


ADVANCECOPI
Teter ut

PAGE O3- 03

roRtees2i 18z JAN 76

aecause HE wad, 10, WORK Late: tBeL eve, HE SOLD. TRUTHS
He ‘APOLOGIZED “AND NoTED THERE WILE BE OTHER OPPORTUNITIES. }

H Jobe ‘Se PAAATE: caate FOLLOWS “ON THO AMERICANS KNOWN.TO REZ MKOV,
; tia AIGES 201922599, €2. IMP DET

“ : : SECRET



vorslcones Sof, a

&.

cate see ol ay
\ mernooucrion

teouine orrice wa PAO

Pendoneunit NOUS,

sé ¢ RE-T 217388 WAR 73 STAFF.

cite LONDON’ 5885s.
Tot rer OR

RE: WAVE

sae
. rh s
“Ney YORK CITY, WE wannragh No NTEREST.
ay SUGGEST abwaviw ‘
: vad PtLeY. goapeaaseds 2

““L . 28,9g67251, -E2 IMPdeT

RE IDEN A:RePL “NYS ENPLOVER ADVISES
neh Ashe?



OUTGOING, MESSAGE

eter en ly a
Retreats tt aes
oro 8 Oo ao ;
paerareey : i
SCCRET : :
Tiguan mare coven eins concession,

starr ; "ou74ez DIRECTOR, «=. 2 BHURN? a
Cont: EW Feds’ Fine OPAL, Ky Poy teeta vice a fs

* EDENTITY, &: 20 i
20> 8a72Sh}-¥
FILE NOS?

p suioneys F
7 ae 202-2803b2.'-202-894708

+ MQ MARCH 1975.
orc: SALLY ANN BROWN

7 we
ext: = 1403S i
Sib Gu obaery -
EURBC 7 evacter :
Fach Ae a enero ELBIT, an

i euaseinearon feencoucriou By oTiEa THAN ‘THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIOITED «= Es 2. IMPOET
“) SECRET : eaves : , oo: ek BY: g3asq3


OUTGOING: MESSAGE
ss =~
anf

+ Pe
some CUnrem est Ons
“cae TS con - vee,

oo. ao)

custenaton

i tea Saou eis c wesnese nerenence damon
F © WOL2EZ DIRECTOR ~ Peete ees
Ree + Q mene O1SSEM OFe .
CONF: euay we: me hes offer : 0 ea noen : ~

— = SO mavens! PER

REF! DIRECTOR: )
Ob. IDENTITY. AY “ROBERT Anes KORENGOLD+Y

| Epentity et Sasa y =

_ FILE NoS* , g0k-2a03b2, 20i-89N708, 2un-25u012i 2n2~8se48?.
20- 887288 “Ea AMPDET A.

10 MARCH 1975
omc: SALLY ANN BROWN

uN: EJB C/ 5
ET >
guna

cuteecanen neonvenoy orwer THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE Is PROMOTED 2 IMPDET
SECRET thoy, : aaa cL BY: g1zsd

ote 1 ebia—
(eae :



“THE. FALE OWING. TNEGR far iow CONCERNING THE, Sueveer. /OR THIS 208:
- OASSTER HAS ‘BEEN £ RaCTED. FROM ANOTHER - “OFFIC TAL- HO FUME
PERSONS PERFORMING - WANE TRACES Ave CAUTLONED: THAT THE BO
MENT FROM WHLCH THES EXTRACT WAS PREPARE CONTAINS ADDITIONAL: E
“INFORMATION P RTALNING 40. THE SUBJECT
FROM -{P/FILES oe

LKORENGOLD) AUD. aia ee
201-0256092 074-009-054

SEX MOOR 08 : 1 $BMA-o1898 . .€
PAR USA, (MINN - 7 OF JUL 66.0,



ia
i





secur
HEN HEED IN)

ROUTING-ANO: RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

atid forward to IPLADI

2. Destroy tront cov
sgmilicant action
ing preservation.

Reet.
yor comments raquit

| ¥. Fillin Sect 2. on back. Oetéch back flap

tile no. and

insort proper,tite no. below and forward

hown are not proper.

FROM:

17

WaIGHT EDITA “7 oz-044

document to I

SRGPER TLE HO

10m DCH APPROPRIATE

=|

no [eecemeo

LTP/AN CASO conmental -
EXT. 5178 . TUBE GT?"
ROOM = orecens | >
: ers aS

(p. SEP

ae

sf

Sa RLM -

Le

pyr

pera

x

“SAB

foe

i :
[e
in ears
weet |
\eaae eer
raace i
mouse :
iia drli be
Date Wee AMID BSCOGTNT OFT =e ae recy
| OF en aly cat ae ea



WASHINGTON. D.C, 20505

. TO: Director
: . Federal Bureau of investi
ie oe Attention: Name Check. Unit: .

~Deputy Director. for
“suBiegt? © See

Robert Ja ines “KORENGOLD |

tr. We would apprec te recéivinig any tracés on

- “Subject subsequent’-to your letter of 16 April 1971: :
/ (file number 105 79059) which forwar
traces’ on: Subject’ in response fo "our

_ of d April. 1971,

inf raation: on Subject available ®

An‘ this Agency's’ fil s forwarded :to ‘you in
: r noted above... ache

pees era ed

2. All of th

CL BY 012591
E2  IMPDET



2

aca leee bd

on ont
pe
‘onl, Kay Withelm:bl
r £/BC/CI
me + | :6959/1035

ora - 6 May 1972

BO eewen to FER ontven —_[] renin

_REDLEG: : - eeeeeeeeeeeeaa :
REFS: A; DIRECTOR 133220"

JACK J. FIELDHOUSE
a C/EURBC DC/EURBC

AUTHENTICATING
ey

RELEASING OFFICER,

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED, She Ho.
fF od + 2-2 586092,



wessace roms ,  [returnceeinion egies Seen oF
aisle ae

‘Gna . TOTAL COPIES. = teal |
: ome Gene Pinney: sl a : \
wo hR = DC/EURBC’ ~ ick ice Es \
on: 7220/1413 : a

os pare. 22 April i972 - :
Ae SzeRETARIATorsSeuiNariOn Dl twoex Oto ncn

poo eee ra Wyre ics rue no, —201- 256092,

wo

[Bl rue

tele

“REFS: A. OLA 53420 ; fe 7
By LoxDox i9782 (18 316503) ee Mele ae 7
NTAIN,-NO DEROG ~ ‘AEDONOR ee

“UPDATED LNERGO| >.

HEARD NAME Bor KNEW NOTHING
‘TRACES. PENDING,

2, SUBJ APPARENTLY ‘PERSONA * NON. craTa WITH sovs pechuge -

oF HIS ‘TREATMENT, oF NEGATIVE ASPECTS | ‘OF SOVIET SCENE Suci As”

“INTELLECTUSL DISSIDENCE. AS: EXUPEE, DID NEWSWEEK ARTICLE’.

1 JUNE 70 oN: INTERV v WITH ALSIARTE, FOR mis" REASON Ad WELL

as ‘puteauckaric OBSTACLES CITED. PARA S'REF A Question. ween 7

IT W oun BE: ote 70 PunsvE THIS LEAD

con ‘APERO)

RELEATING OFF.CER



CABLE SECRETARIAT OFSSEWIN pex (Jno mote’) nerun ro arance,
oes dns

aN Crue med rid oc si apt
tein ot : aan



Cage Sone raat Dissemnanior., CeassrieoMessace 2 psa Gobie Mg-L
ea 4

ROUTING ANDIOM MITIALE:SEEW BT

REFi: OFLA 53429 20/7 28EC7 AL ;
AS Has. KNOWS, RACOLIN TENTATIVELY SCHEDULED TDY LONDON...

ARRIVAL «

BOE a yayn
SECRET

RE) BSCOF_QE-









SUBJECT® Robert, X

SECRET


manne
SLU

3 Hay 68.”

‘SUBJECTS Re J wl enrsoey fc teeetn ante teeta ere agi

Corment: ‘The following isa sumity of ‘the Subjects Das. It: a Delieved te

bea conplata | aecoutit of oveiytiing nthe f

whdeh is relavants : f
i on 7 iHay cies Subjec' ‘3 ariver, later identified as one Boerhafe Ae rat,

Bertin Feqhested trees syidasortors had nono, queried the FBT, ahd -ala0 “had -
“aéee} ; : : ie .

is’ on nUITEL, ‘and reported.

"Rak subsequent report sont Berkin requested t
thet fe waa born 13 sugest awl tn Stuttcart, and that ‘he was: the, emer ofS
the car which had brought KORAGOLD to Eact Herlia for the’ trip to the USSR

“* Borlini.had Goiie’ up with’ a CI6'traes te the effect that TITEL waa explayed
“Ah 1951 by United Press photes (Photes?7)" in West Berlin and’was arrested in?

East Berlin in | 19 82 ror unspecified reasons. in reupéiise wo ‘tats reiuést

Headquarters cams up with two traces on a (im) TTY
44 A (fm) 12iTsL, bora 1922, was urrested on 21 Juns 19h8 by the
FVD at his Aen (apyarently lust Uerlin) for participating in the
‘Waldor Novexent", an anti-Soviet underground group in East Germany. a

b. A (fru) TITEL born ca. 191] was ment.oned in a

SK Report" (E5CA=

frarer


7906L,, June 56) 28 being connected with (possibly @ senber'6f) the SED,
3e Ina cable ‘dated 19 Sept 66, -brusgels Station reported that a cortain Robert

cf Ra Houser, @ realtor fro Fort hyers beach, Hlorida, dn trahatt ‘te Germany,

contacted the Soviot ' nbassy in Inxénbourg on 5 Soptenber to ely ! for a

- noises ‘Dos 6 Sopt 5 disineds aderesis
“Beach, Fla.j 0.3. Passport, No. 0799092.

did not t received his’ vida in axenboire, and said he would ty to got it-in
East Dorlia. Hriseols requested’ traces on HOUSER anid’ KORENG SOLD, | but tho. file.
doce Rot reflect what Pala vemilts tes ‘this, roquest wore. Ada edonal bio on

“SECRET



a SECRET ey

fae Baa an WHEN FtED.INY sy
ale : aed ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET -

INSTRUCTIONS.

Ss }
1 Alla vn back. Detach back ils z
Teel lesenae tei gpaereoe ede + .| Ihte ao and tile shown are, not proper,
2 Destroy front cover shevit, unless tt records insert proper file no. below, aad forward
baa significant action taken of commests taqul document to RID- AN,
ing preservanon :
RID; ¢ :
ee YG; ALL ADORESSEES.
io Peres Lote ease TTETFREW SECTION VEN eae WF ArORORWATE ia
: Soy ore 5s cowwente ;
j ERTL 778 one : ;

“ian INDER SEARCH I baie ;

coe _ nes = ; yeoeers GS
F mee RID Le rhe

b 2: FO. Ee 7
ger on. 8 ba ~ Sf,
Picearatwnny UE
a yeu) feces
Braue O Gwe et F

he. cella Wie oe #

MAR 16.1971" >

ee Bs a:
LF Medak Py bute © FBS
Fen eviaest TRbce

b- aoe, eh ao haw
OL tele Fahne

RID eer

: FRE RUREEN TRARY COTE
(1. ime |
Sn ccs 2of—_ BELO GD.
. POEESERT OME “opeusest ‘RUveES
& i |
: foeva 53420

Tore @1Oa em retoUe


Gene - I clecked-out Press Publicity Section whether
anything derog on attached. NEWSWEEF article
| : by Subject, dated 1 June 1970, 1s about his

faterview with Andrei AMALRIK 10 1965 1n Moscow.
RULRICK errected by Sovs & sent to lebor camp.
(SB heve e11 this info)
‘ i \ :
FYI = there have been some very top Journeliste fi Lond

on vhea Ste reported end got tidbits, but never to
the extent of POAing-such contacts.

1
ee
\ : i oa
ie info on KORENGOLD and. bh “wife, but ©.
ut knew nothing else

, | » We have ‘biographic inf
no derog.. “ABDONOR had heard the nage bu

about hia.

Our records do show that B/USSR ~has infortiation of possible
interest, partioul arly, re contact with Valeriy Vadimovioh

LEDNEV.

To: RID/ADP RANE

ae arer an re ; - - -
AoTicN DESK; 1. Destroy this fora 4f an aperture cait (aierSttld. tuage) aide froa
the tached doe ‘ leased. to. CS Personiiel without prior reference to.
2. 7 B,.Go-restrict, access to th 2 : \.
document. con lete this form and forvard to Hilal geese eee

RESTRICT OOCUMENT SYMOOL @ muMUER

|
I
|
i



Br DISPATCH

PRCT

___| SOR lmanip rot woyto

oe

foray cua. nese
_. fom nese

WA

"action REQUIRED: | As Indicated’

Oo 53 ! os Lycurs. records ‘show that KORENGOLD was born on’4.September' 1929, i

aU. S..citizen, and is married to’a French citizen named Marie Christine-hee,

2DAVIRON, born 23 October 1937 in France, They. reside at 10 Onslow Gardens,>
“London/‘S; W, 7, and they have’at least one’ child, Kevin Lloyd KORENGOLD, born’
on 15 September 1968 in London, KORENCOLD is listed in Station records as head *
of the Newsweck. bureau in London and as a member of the Foreign Press Associa=,
tion (to: which a number of Soviet press and tadio correspondents belong),

2 Keiricth. RACOLIN @). who setved wi sth KORENGOLD i in ‘Moscow and who-
“is still known, to him, as ital been‘an' LNYATE official there, has told us the fos wo

|. ing:

: a) “KORENGOLD has twice been, stationed in Moscow;, first with UPI in
about 1961-62 and then with Newsweek in about 1963-65, Betwecn these two >
assignments, he took a course in'Russian studies ‘at Harvard under a Nieman

Fellowship, -He‘doss, of course, speak Russian,

») ‘Having’ excellent contacts in Soviet. jintellectiial circles; KORENGOLD

Wa one of the best sources’ of inforh infor ‘LNYATE arid-LNCUFF prés

“persorinel.in Moscow, On.more thaii one occasion:KORENGOLD ran into; diffi

. culties with the Soviet authorities; he along-with an LNCUFF Lela were. in: the
apartment of the. author AMALRIK when | it'was raided.

ROUP I, EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

aa ET "aor as EOP ie an

OELA - 53420 _ 24 February | 1971

26° EO God

ih Fad ub

201--

SECRET



CONTINUATION OF | 7 TAT REST
: DISPATCH _ SECRET : OELA - 53420

¢) KORENGOLD probably maiatains-ag-muel: contact a3 he can with hie"
circle of Soviet acquaintances from his Moscow days, and since he is an ag-
gressive and well-informed man, he probably also is widely acquainted among
Eastern and Western préss.circles in London, :

4) ii RACOLINia opinion, KORENGOLD would cooperate with JKLANCE if,
after suitable cultivation, requests for Sissisande-were-made. -e - :
e) RACOLIN ahd his wifé were personal friends of the KORENGOLD's,
and on one‘of:his TDYs ‘to London, it would be natural for RACOLIN to:contact
KORENGOLD; then of later RACOLIN could introduce a Station officer’ to him.

|< ..3. We are: cognizant of not only the security reservations which might arise
froma KORENGOLD's years in Moscow and his having a French wife, and we are like-

wise cognizant of Section Sb, ‘CSI-F 50-10, Nevertheless, we Would appreciate re-

‘| ceiving Headquarters and LNERGO traces onthe KORENGOLD couple. We would

algo welcome your comments as. to the practicality of our ‘considering him as a. pos:

sible future source reporting on Soviets in ‘London, _ ee if neem



SECRET

PRIORITY a 31 MAY ©1967

sh: -2 av ar

TO: HEADQUARTERS — 2919262

CITE: — MOSCCN 390»,
REF; figs 536, :

THROUGH 3... ~

“PARAS 3 “AND 4 ARE ALSO KORENGOLD,
+2. NO FURTHER DETATLS REI “PARAS B AND c.

3.

MISLEADING.

"INTERPOLATION.

Olpess Be Pavitwe a”

ph 8 FFs 72 SECRET
Ce io z oe

A GissiaimenLtronreeee nce Tey Berm Of fecomadon
“4 can

Dunks ser,

PF theen

HIM REVEAL SOURCE. FYI WE “pudious SHANCES succiss.

t

As BRADSHER: "BASIS was 504 ABOUT AP SToRY, ZOOK’
‘QUERTED BRADSHER WITH RESULTS: REPORTED MOSCOW 385 e 1

: B. KORENGOLD: WoscoW 379 PARA 1 PROVIDES. Source AND

IN AIRGRAM THAT THESE STORIES FRON EE SOURCES IN soscon Is
BRADSHER IDENTIFIED HIS SOURCES TO Z00K ONLY As

9 1 MAY 196 7

BACKGROUND™ ATA FOR EMBTEL 5014 PARA 2. “NOTE THAT mus -REPERRED
_TO KoRENGDLD-200K ‘CONVERSATION Nib, APRIL; -200K HAS” Not SEEN

KORENGOLD: PAST FEW-DAYS BUT IAS AGREED SEE uyM SOON AND. TRY, cot
NoscoWw 387

Az1733 DATED 30 MAY REPORTS STORIES noscoir 388 PARAS 2A
AND B AND 3A AND.B.. “CONTAINS “NO NEW. INFO. FYI, FLAT STATEMENT”

" REPORTED. NOSCON. 385, AND Py STATEMENT ‘THUS. REPRESENTS 200K

BIW AS 6072.



S ECR & T
Air He

4. ~ RE PARA D REF WE CONFIRM THAT THIS REFERRED TO 26 MAY
PRESS CONFERENCE. 200K HAD’ NOT PREVIOUSLY HEARD THUS RUNOR
OF SEMICHASTNYY APPOINTMENT, THOUGH IT APPEARS AMB HAD . FROM ~
".CORRESPONDEN 7S. INCLUDING INTERALIA KORENGOLD: .

s. DURIN SOCIAL. EVENING. 25 MaY WITH: CAMEROONIAN’ STUDENT
(AT ‘MOSCOW MEDICAL _InsTITUTE) “JOHN LYONGO, DAVIS ASKED ABOUT
REACTION oF STUDENTS IN HIS DRA TORY TO SVETLANA DEFECTION.
“LYONGO REPLIED Sov" STUDENTS, EAGERLY INTERESTED, RELATED. HOW THEY.
K WHEN: VvOA REPORTED ON - :

CROWDED HIS ROOM TWO EVENINGS LAS 7
'LANTIC MONTHLY ARTICLE AND, RITICAL LETTER To SVETLANA PRON :

“HER SON;. " LYONGO STATED’ NAJORITY ‘Sov STUDENTS HE ons ARE’.

CRITICAL ‘OF SVETLANA,* = BUT i ARGUE OTHER SIDE AND FEEL SHE aoe
"sHouLD BE_ FREE 0. GO WHERE AND Do WHAT SHE WANTS. SIMILAR SPLIT

OF VIEWS: OBTAINED | wise FOREIGN STUDENT SUGGESTED SVETLANA SON

“ PROBABLY WROTE L TTER TO SVETLANA, “UNDER : INSTRUCTIONS. OR. PRESSURE: 7

‘MAJORITY sov STUDENTS DEFENDED LETTER as HONEST EXPRESSION SON'S

VIEWS, BUT... SOME (PLUS CONSIDERABLE “NUMBER FOREIGN STUDENTS) FELT

HE TOLD TO WRITE

END OF MESSAGE

Copy No. _t of 4. *. a ae

Distribution .
1, 2, 3, - CSB/CG/T :
4, - CSB

3 1 MAY 1967

SECRET



SECRET

PRIORITY. i 28,.MAY 1967
TO: HEADQUARTERS _ 2715352 a
- GrTE:: Moscow .387 =

Ae ASSUNE’ YOU. iE AUTHORITATIVE UNSIGNED PRAVDA
EDITORIAL 27, MAY ATTACKING. ALLEGED. U.$.. ANTI. SOVIET CAMPAIGN

WHICH IT SAYS.1S AIMED“ AT 50TH ANNIVERSARY AND WHICH IT.
ATTRIBUTES TO HIGHEST US LEVELS. CLEARLY ‘PROMPTED BY SVETLANA
AFFAIR, ART: CLE CITES DEPARTNENT, USIA, CIA; TOON, LEONARD

AND oO ours: AND KERENSKY TARSIS "AND ©

: (OF INR)’, "KENSAN,
SVETLANA. “TaSS- ENGLISH. CARRIES FULL TEXT: PLUS COMMENTARY, ,
AND CORRESPONDENTS ‘WERE’ ARE” BUSY FILLING storrEs. EMBTEL $179

: REPORTS .

2. ¥ . | PROBABLY ‘ALSO FANTLTAR WITH SHOLOKHOV SPEECH

~ 2s NAY. At WriTERS concREss IN WHICH HE BROKE LONG SOVIET MEDIA

SILENCE ON. SvETLA A BY. CITING HER AS. DEFECTOR AND LINKING HER
‘ WITH a THUS. aFFECTIVELY LAYING GROUND woRK FOR TODAYS EDITORIA
F ALSO, ‘aS NOTED WEE nv DATED” 26° MAY, 12vEsttYa: 22 ‘MAY WORKED
IN BIG AT KENNAN DIATRIBE ON REPRESSIONS IN PARAGUAY AND LATIN -
~ (WEEKA TEXT CONTAINS inion TRANSLATION

"AMERICA in GENERAL
ERROR; SEE 12VESTI

AKALO' 3KY TODAY THAT HE SAW SVETLANA'S

‘SON EVENING 26 MAY.:SON'SAID HAD NOTHING TO SAY, IF AND WHEN

“ HE DOES HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY, HE WILL FIND WAY OF SAYING IT..

(Pree OC Ss SECRET peas
L eae sae : cc ee
oe ced CR ref Cecay & fe. { ,
yure aaa 1 2 8 MAY 1967 «

3 Chee



: SUGGESTED TODAYS EDITORIAL PROBABLY CONSTITUTES* ONE OF THESE
' TWOs :

~ Distribution oe
iy, 2, 3; + CSB/CG/I-
4 SB

SECRET
er ae

ae COMMENT: SOUNDS LIKE ARTICLE BY SON MAY BE IN’ OFFING).

4. “BRIAN “FALL. ad BRITISH. EMBASSY * TOLD SMITH 2 MAY. ali!

WEEK ‘OR ‘TWO ‘AGO: FORENGOLD TOLD HIM, CITING SOVIET ‘sOuRCE
* (NOT IDENTIFIED, BY-FALL,: AND PRESUMABLY NOT BY. KORENCOLD. To.

FALL), THAT TWO ARTICLES BEING PREPARED ‘ON SVETLANA. FALL

T MESSAGE

Copy No. Poof 4-7 .

see eee ae eee SECRET - -

2 8 MAY 1957



apis 816

FON POY AUDAY IRS

zoom Aer

DAYS EARLIER. WAS-TP UOT RUD

PRI 26 07?

fase : —,. i
‘opy _{ of 3 i .
a ie,
Distribution: iby Cary
#1,2 -.SB/cG/1
3 - C/sB

C. aederetera rape — SECRET.

B. denere= Opmniccinit, Ron: Cfpearad f FG
“7 f

BR Cher

AML A OLTYCIT . DROME Tt,

28 iio 1967

(ELST REQUEST

14

c

USAT go9

PRIOR a
Eke ae

oP savuiaL,

COP PRS CIRSLTS . |

2 8 MAY 1967
A



SECRET

PRIORITY 27 MAY 1967 : : F

TO: HEADQUARTERS 2622102 |
S SH: -2406 the

CITE: MOSCOW 35
: “HQs | so¢ :

AFTER consulta Nv

MAKE INQUIRY), BRADSHEH URI Ee oF REF STORY nas THREE

INDIVIDUALS OF THREE DIFFERENT NATIONALITIES, OF THEM.

: SOVIET. HE DECLINED IDENTIFY ANY OF THREE BY NAME. HE 1S
KNOWN HOWEVER, “HAVE coop CONTACTS Find EASTERN EUROPEAN 7
* JOURNALISTS HERE. is
ae BRADSHER PROVIDED FOLLOWING ANPLIFICATION oN ee ORY ‘As
“FILED. (GauTCH WE HAVE Not Yet SEEN): fey
AL INVESTIGATION OF ‘SVETLANA AFFAIR: UNCOVERED. EXTENSIVE :
EFFORTS BY FOREIGNERS HERE TO ‘UNDERMINE MORALE OF SOVIET:
CETIZENS PARTICULARLY: INTELLECTUALS... = aut a
B. DOCUMENTS * (UNIDENTIETED) HAVE BEEN STOLEN FROM
SOVIET ARCHIVES (aso “UNIDENTI FIED) AND SMUGGLED ABROAD.
THIs FEATURE: ALLEGEDLY 1s “PARTICULARLY * SORE POINT 'WITH
_. sovieTs.. © ef eee Erbe ae
fe Fy BRADSHER STATED ALSO. HE. “HAS HEARD FOLLOW.

- ADDITIONAL

“RUMORS WITHIN. PAST FEW DAYS. HE- AGAIN DECLINED: XANE SOURCES,

ALTHOUGH ZOOK FEELS THEY may BE SAME As FOR ORIGINAL STOR’

Cres Seferon eZ
ws - ase a ere SPFTH 2



Fat

SECRET
iy Hs

Rgg 1227 sei : ;
i he SENICHASTNYY “IS TO BECOME DEPUTY PRENIER OF
UKRAIN ser BILE L i i ae
B?" SHELEPIN-%S TO BECOME(NEW “CHATROAN- OF STATE:

COMMITTEE ‘OR RADIO BROADCASTING AND TV, VICE NOVEMB

iv
esvarsiy WHO TO BE NAMED AMBASSADOR TO GHANA. -
eee
C. VARIOUS SENIOR KGB OFFICIALS ASSOCIATED WITH
SEMICHASTNYY. HAVE. BEEN ot OUT TO THE BOON DOCKS. pears

7 4.°° ABOVE OBTAINED - BEFORE “PRIDAY PRESS RENE JUST
BEFORE OR AFTER PRESS CONFERENCE HENRY. SHAPIRO INFORME!

ce iiAT-SHEVCHENYO,” CHIEF OF ‘PRESS ‘DIVISTON
: OF. RONCOM, TOLD HIM" TODAY. THAT SENICHASTNYY kat BE reOING TO

AMBASSADOR’ PRI VATE

UKRAINE AS (FIRST. DEPUTY PREMIER.: a
5.) EMB- REPORTING PARA 4 iNro, PROBABLY IN STERILIZED -FORM.

. 200K HAS: PASSED ON STORIES PARA 3 IN INFORMAL LETTER,. HAS NOT
DECIDED WHETHER WILL REPORT - FORMALLY.

END OF. MESSAGE

Copy No. .! of 4

Distribution
1, 2, 3, - CSB/CG/I
4) - CSB

SECRET 27 MAY 1987



SECRET

“ROUTINE 1 JUNE 1967

To: HEADQUARTERS 3020502 sh Dy0bb: ae
CITE: .NOSCOW "392 onic : peevreere Cer ereeereeeeeiieen naar

REF: | MOSCOW 3900 7
1. RESPONSE’ SPECIFIC: INQUIRY FROM 200K 30. MAY KORENGOLERS; .

DECLINED IDENTIFY HIS SOVIET SOURCE: : : ~ cael :
2,- IN COURSE CONVERSATION, 200K MENTIONED. MOSCOW 385

Pai 5B. RUMOR. KORENGOLD STATED HE MAD HEARD wit fussuatsevP® oo,
TO BE REASSIGUED paBUT HAD, JIFARD NOTHING ABOUT WHAT NEW JOB "~~. *
: Tech OA SAY

“TO BE -OR*RUMOR SHELEPIN TO REPLACE HIM AS HEAD RIV cowpitréee.

K STATED HOWEVER HE. HAD. HEARD | IN ADDITION That Ay y.

: OF CINEMATOGRAPHY “CONMITTEE ALSO: TO. BE REASSIGNED, K ‘INDICATED

THAT SOURCE Is “MESYATSEV- ROMANOV RUMOR WAS ue ONE OTHER THAN

‘+ HIS REGULAR SOURCES: -- ecient i

.3:° 200K CALLS ATTENTION TO INTERESTING- HISTORICAL FACT:

'. THAT HEADS OF TWO OF PUBLIC MEDIA ‘STATE COMMITTEES ; PUBLISHING -
“aD RIV, WERE CHANGED tisteoravecy FOLLOWING KHRUSHCHEV, OusTER:
cia ‘ Gace END -OF MESSAGE.

Sefevenie’®

(ig ress
wie B247VC™

Copy No. + of 4 i

Distribution : : : :
1, 2, 3, - CSB/CG/I occ
2. css : i

B/-2 EPR.

1JUN1957

2. Gas

OVE FIED

3 Cftten


“SPECULATIVE, ‘STATION, REC, LLS BEING -STRUCK ‘SINCE. FIRST: OF YEAR AT

meg,

on

ROUTINE an “a2 MAY 1967

To: -. HEADQUARTERS . 2112522... - . -

CITE: ‘MOSCOW’ 379

_EMBTEL sola aa 7 : : any hoe oe ‘
AS KORENGOLD®
_

1, WESTERN CORRESPONDENT REFERRED TO REF Wi
~ OF NEWSWEEK. NE PASSED ON RUMOR, WHICH HE SAID HE HEARD FRON
sov CoNtact,. ABouT SEMICIIASTNYY, INCLUDING SHELEPIN ANGLE, AS
DOF conversation WIT ZOOK. CA 15 APRIL’ ABOUT :

AFTERTHOUGHT ‘AT E
GRECHKO" APPOINTMENT.
EMassy. NH “kvons ADENTITY. t)

WE-HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE FIND ANYONE 1
NY OF KORENGOLD' SOURCES: “200K :

with ‘INFO IN. “CULTURAL FIELD. OKA OF CHRISTYAN SCIENCE MONTTOR: +

WAS: To ‘BE REPLACED. -
2. WHILE “ABSENCE REAL INFO MAKES any COMMENT PURELY . |

"APPARENT INCREASE SEMICHASTNYY POLITICAL ACTIVITY: .VIEW THIS

- AND - BEING UNAWARE any Kop SITUATION. WHICH “MIGHT CAUSE HIM. BE de
FIRED; STATION TENTATIVELY SUGGESTS HE ON WAY UP. RATHER THAN lee 1
WE ALSO: STRUCK :BY. ‘HIGH LEVEL PARTY ENGAGEMENT SECURITY: '

“ORGANS AS SEEN. sustoy THVOLVENENT PARTY ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANS i

“S$ EC R.-E T

2 2 MAY 967.



“~ *,
: i SECRET
: See
i _ SENINAR MID-APRIL-(ENBTEL 4465 APRIL' 15) AND NUK ANDKOPOV

" APPOINTNENT, BUT. WE SEE ‘NO INDICATION WHAT. THIS ALL MEANS.

a oo ~ END OF MESSAGE. -* ee ce
lof a
Distribution. oe
: 1, 2,.3,.- CSB/CG/T

4,°- CSB



= = ds
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE‘ vorae_conre

SECRET

patew owit ROTIF Tee

vrotsi Drew’ De
FY TO PELE WO. ~~
er to rikeyaee
tue moO) nf. to emance
esther Dare :

SE ¢ RE 3 1913202 CITE BRUSSEL S ~ 1376 ‘oman n ACTING) :

D mkecTOR; PARIS |. : 7
event | qusanies LNERGO i ae :

1! FOLLOW ING FROM QUBANNER: |
a a mR ROBERT B NOuSER, REGIS\ERED 5 SEPT 66 aT

HOTEL eLooRaDd, iu jBoURG, AS BORN 6 SEPT .06,-US Citizen,

Ny REALTOR: or” gag SAN Garios DRIVE, FORT mYERS BEACH) FLOR IDA, eae

IN TRANSIT | 1 GERMANY, us PASSPORT 8799092.
= Ba. Fol VERY” SENSITIVE SOURCE QUBANNER LEARNED .
“P. -tyat wodseR Gout acre SOVIET EMBASSY LUXEMBOURG ON 5° SEPT

to APPLY FOR VISA visit Moscow FOR Two DAYS. CLAINED wouLD
STAY wie. “MIs aunt RESIDING. MOSCOW OR POSSIBLY Rely Moscow
“NeusveK conte sPbuDe: MRZROBERT J © KORENGOLD « 35 :
C. HOUSER 010 Not GET HIS VIET visa Ws. Sy
LUXEMBOURG AND RE! rand wouD TRY OBTAIN IT EAST BERLIN.
Be QUBANNER, 5 REQUESTS viento REP IN. PAR IS. BE INFORMED |

‘OF ABoves : r : oe
3. PLEASE CABLE TRACES INDICATING WHAG MAY'BE PASSED QuBANNER
4. INDEX HOUSER.

ioe ET SECRET
Se sven


a the are Biv nmat frat m He Paik ee Sows)

: Fepennd 4 Nowaste

oat —— : 22 DEC 1965

Cod SRMA ~ 1#PL.
: 29 Nr bs7

Te bey, se

Fram COS,-Mesemd

Sabjecd * Simon .
ap! SRUW- 1139
ARE tb

on owe 7 2 “/s33. "bees Reb Ti ae eh iar
aS hea
Meirsweck. Me hal 20% thetify aeTh,, ib A he tikienntes

“res bese ifs

= ee “692:

"pare 7 ifn L 7 Len then ts me. bawe + the oka

7 what Ine ng _hokhing free. Rae n naet frstial for le —

a hsceLle 6 Th, Auhon sprain a ae hort Vie k sabia}

alr a lah, Meolwee, what eer Chime
es Uh, A bef, Bia) PRUE 40a oe

Ofs0 -2 1 one conor LES"

pees

tse -/ Sith ashcg GRIER WN. eg


i "Pes eee Le i
oe
eee Se
DT Lawl VEE :

ee ae



se Ree gers - paugtd ka, eit

“CY tnctassieieo = Stes : 1 cont-venri® “SECRET 7
: use ONLE
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

{) OFCERS | COMMENTS (Nene, ecch concent te show rim show

uaa. moeo |“ NITALS jon column ater woh comment) f-

Rt GOSS PR) secReT (1 CONFIDENTIAL «(] [NTEFAAL =) UNCLASSIFIED


= INTERNATIONAL, se pom boot

binad paticy even while w
4 “6 sipgort. the Krenh
: agreamint enily, tustav's Jefe]

: ae : gh er é mal
if Satan anaiaay Artela’ by siae ey Gee

4 Inited Press International before returning tothe
WS. in 1963. After-a year's stady of Russian atfairs at Harvard:
‘on a Nieman fellowship, he has just returned to’ the Russian-
“capital tna up his. neW post. In the brief period of twelve

FRANCE, to vated

- ce as my Wife and [crass the me of sig - i fo
border into the Ukraine, there was me past the border, the: ‘Soviet Une
How ItAll 8 ne _doubt we were back in_ the “ion, with it
“For the Peapafet R. While passport-conteal officers’ mast unbroken te the horizon, simply -”
nioith of Waotlf- tically down the train cor Sengulfs you. Only here’ anil ‘there “one.

heching cach. passenger, two, S068 a solitary
nie in familiar Ragey’ a dusty soad or a cluster wf vollect

lack boots, and hats . fami°cott
hands stoat vatside "fencetolf private plot: dev
: it woild be in thet

deans sn, el
cig ying in the streets

nice plingged inte th
of, World War AB

4 ‘
litahrieg, but tor
Ci i

driemic “Nicolet,
s bexinuinig te:

patches of tomatoes, cartots, -
+ Theill: Approaching Moscow by. rail
nlerstaie tie

paper and printed ssi tian chched along un the 2940 bip =
uewspaper Clippings, tomist guidebooks from the border through” am endlese
‘and leiteis, out of onr lngzage and took string of villages, the’ city’s
them olf for inspection. He was gone iy colored onion-dom
for the Hour that if took to ft the train okd Orthodox chiirehes, ai
with new car wheels for the ‘ectrawide: new factories and apartment buildings,
Soviet tracks. Th “the sand-colored brick tower of Moscow
possessions, pal gradually poked up, over the.
teat -eversthing was in order, sults, all this weie not km
shed we pleasant jure. " pressive enough for the pean, the
train’ loudspeaker began playing puke

1 songs recalling the

anoming SQ pears six ‘dreads
‘mobilized }reneh ung pulled back its
the fiantieg’n the hope of
a hist-ryingte peace mor a

Frengh¥ Cpl Jules
with siagpad of five,

1 had hept ue
four hours. while he looked throng’ ovr
pockets aiid poked inta every, comer of tnt T dade tes
cour car and Siggage. This difference in diway ‘she seemed to have”
+ attitude. it tuuwed out, was jost a fore: - leaped out of her- old bounds, ‘The. |

a spiked
back 19 the“ house, shout
Prussigin! [the tern ¢ nn
Corneal Pengedt sruyhiad dye wath “hs
in the at Commu

Moscow's: changing sky line today: Amonig thic ancient steeples’ and

erg French cluhl 1 hb his:
tegy book: that C sits as
Ginnt soldier to tall in Woskd Wart,

ce the second, After the





“"Uhion into eon

wanes to shoot 2 6
4 giant
speculate

Hotel Vel

eat,

tals here, and the displays

gained Preinicr Khrushchew more,

time to drag the

for just for
middle-aged war veter.

told me indig:

with China don't wony us as th

dul. After all, what ©
Goldwater: «If ao's thre, isa
Auughed off. the public stat
Khater are taken qu

fe the August 1963 test-bu

calin,” said g° young. journ
sorrow tha
has started:

often abort Coldwater and scklom

When I-left Moscow in 1963, : an
invective'filled’ attle Ustween.
ideolog’sts und _ non
and" artists was still-raging in public, This
confit: is-now -noticeubly imuted. The

novelist Viktor “Nekrasoy,
published again, at least in tokenform,
and the press has almost completely
stopped damuit
Enghed* claimed one intellectual
Clumsy: But moving -the arguinent
6 the fiont page does ‘not necessari
‘end it, and shis change-may be more

When the cultural canteoversy was at its
heyht, F recall one party olficil saying
to me ‘that “We have been clumsy. We
have made heroes of these writers and
“likened our world iinage by ps
candemning them.” Pethaps such ideas

have finally been adupted at higher

pany levels. Certainly, the febels ate
now more prudeut aud the party wre
supple-thaugh it could clan

agua if it fecls that the sit
getting out of band. Sig

nechod Sense
about
ponderous

s, professors, and .scien=

states ot

Chinese merchandise as table loths, 2:

amd tenn ‘shoes’ are considerably de-

pleted. Apparently nothing, could have,

7

~ Lar sipport than his shrewd. attick ‘on ©
® the ‘Chinese as reekless,,bellicase.” and

nit

lick. We aren't going'to |

sive up exerytlimg we've fought so’hard fe
Mao's wathke ideas.” a) +

ie went on: “Our probe

re, hoped things would be’

Tonkin business means Johnson ix trying
to steal somé votes from the Goldwater
extremists.” 1 foiisid that 1 was quesied

“ay 4.

wbioad By the none oust waters 4

"have coited altgether

At all levels, Sovtet cultural contaits, |
than ‘how, say. #9

reniai far
Polind or Han

tically, AF mexpeatly: on the a

K
Boor of Mosbove's orate, National Hotel

maitre dhitel senryiing out an > th "
for to onder it'stopped. 1 ako listened * :
ishnieut toa bouncy: girk v6. fe
Blah hair swirled up into a bechivegg
hairda, belting out a shy thinie munaber

with no deeper idevlogical ineseyge than

‘bby, Jibby, Jubb Jo Ba,
Have NOP owt ie thing

Pia ght Blue. suitaiier shire land
banded hats still patiol 21 hours
outside the mar embussieg ‘and -al

ling of visitors winds asad: L

toimb. Drab,-dull newspapers dro
about paduction plus aud ‘imper
jin ns. There are, isle a

promsinig the good Wife tc
even if the’ breadlines of List year tae

my.
Moscow in the: summer of 1964
has a tong way lo go to rid ihelf of its,
past, The Conmuimist Patty reinains de-
fennined wo contl ll aspects Soviet
mic, ‘culiual and political
Butte Tong rin—perhaps:

within the past fear may
aide innportant than what Has not,

a sm
promenadekand quaint suse
the whele eyisode
shock. Teigunaeth (ffony
auth) neve hadkaghe sii

tion that had bec, sa f
Sears’ past by “ether
Fahioith, Tro. Lé

‘vite 3
ea Tu
1 Fepita

nove tisherwven, Fruk Evans
Gordon Hook, who one dark night
suled théir trim, 40-toot tavwler ont
sera the Sue Twit for a tendeayoares
with 4 Dutel freighter. Back im port the
pert alternoon, they were caught red
bamted by customs officials as they un-

: : Newencek, Auguet 3t, 190d
C$ CORY 20:7 25601 4.

oteip at the Laundromat

