# 104-10185-10102

## Page 1

104-10185-10102

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 B

and to

motions to e

SUBECI

Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez

SECRET

NO FORN DiSSEM

REPORT NO:

CSC1 00013-69

DATE DISTR

.B September: 1964

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES CSCS 3/782, 050

29 June 1984

DATE OF

-1964

INFO.

PLACE S

Washington; D. C.

DATE AEG: AURUSt 1664

HELD REPORT NC

TAIS 1S

UNEVALUA

SOURCE GRADINOS ANT DIMINITIVE ANTASAi DP CONTINTAON

SOUACE. A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service

until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments The following report Is cne 9f3 series: Ç©†ain‡ng

personality information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

Il is requested that the addressees take no action en any of the Individuals

mentioned in the personality reports: without first checking with this.

Agency:

Scurce was re-queried corcerning additional.inforniation.on

Manuel VEGA Perez, the Subject of the above referenced report, ard

gave the following Information:

His full name is Manuel Eugeno VEGA Peres, pseudonym

"Marcos, " and he was born about 1919. He is five feet rive

Inches in height, has a heavy. bulld, a white corplexion, curly

hair, and a round, clean shaven face.

VEGA is a Diplomatic Attache al the Cuban Embassy in

Mexico City and the chief of Intelligence there. He arrived In.

Cuba from Mexico in November 1S65 and was assigned to the

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

INSA TAR

¡OCI

IFBI 2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

3

2

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

MATE.

REP CACLANT

CINCSQ E

Frobe date buton indicorod bry? # .)

INEORMATION REPORTS

N'SUSAMOBI

WASAR U

RUD: AN

N'H SA 7 (1), WE 1(2), C14, RID 1

INFORMATION REPORT

LX-1653

JE/LNISH

NO PROICT AMMUG-1)

COOTOIMATIN

CoC1-316| 09713-54

emi

201-5*4252 and 19-5-7

3/PV

---

## Page 2

NO TORN DISTEA

Departamento de Liberacion Nacionai ( Malini LaaraVi Spartari - LS)

of the Direccion Gencral de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Inielligence •

DCI) as the NIcaraguan desk officer. On 16 Äpril 1964 he returned 1o

Mexico City.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

