# 104-10265-10135

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10265-10135

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

13 Octobar 1:59

LIANO RANDUS: FORI

VE /6/ Reports

Attontions Elamor Hard X 0)

SUBNECTS

Roportod Commitment to Cuban lavolutlonardos by

British Anthoritlos In Massaa for loo of Saall

Caribboan Island (01. 65-3/1:111,382 datod 9 Voivor)

I. concerning my telophone comorantion with 1les hard taisy concerning

additional inforation rocotvad on subject, the followin una escarpto fos

a dispaton iron the KID Rapresantatim In lend (ULMA-32 dated 2 Octobor)

BID LONIUTION IOT YOUr infOrsatiOn!

ODDAli callod me a for days aftor sy visit with hur on 25 Sapionher.

to Intoin me that tho

rams of tha Brition official with whos eno

FREYN, proup had discussod the mattor of rottini an mirhabizad

1slmd sa a stagin" aura my Colons) lorris Hilll, of what he callod

the "socrot division" In Nassau, Bahanas, CODAIE Bald that FAiXM

had also riven him ill's talanhono numbers which aris offico -

2020 and lono 46913 and ha imitod QODAIE to call Colonal Hill uad

contem that the British had mado thia comitnents

This matter of a Brittah Island had boon montionad to no bafara by

Spocial Arant Georga Davis of-tho FBI, so I discussed tha sattar with

him (Davis) •

He said that ha hud knoim that 11ll has salkad to somone

on this subgoot, but a Brittah officor, rhoße nus he thought, rithout

100kdng 1t up, was Cadaldos and no 10 Mill's suparior in daulca, camo

to 111 and to infor the rEI that Mill's conversation tith that soup

had boon roported to hin and that, not only would the Boltish tovernment

not ontortain such a notion, but Hill was off basa in oven cacussing

tho nattor with the group and in not reporting thair proposal to la So

arthorities.

2. QDDALE do a prondent U. So buinosaan in lilad With good contaota

ansong Cubm odle croups. The original inforation, dissoninated in

C5-3/114, 382, of which your dosk ras funished a copy, vas aloo recalved la

Mtand by the WHO laprasantativa, fron QDDAlE, and not In Habana, as shore on.

tha dissonination.

Hartha Tharpe

771/3/Cartb (Fixt. 3229)

SECRET

---

