# 104-10071-10025

## Page 1

104-10071-10025

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

27 UNCLESSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

P' "FIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Oprional)

FROM:

CI/Ober

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

2.

DATE

EXTENSION

5847

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

NO.

B-191

DATE

9 October 1968

COMMENTS (Number each comment la show from miam

* C7/S0

Draw a line across column after each comment.):

ML

Only

Originated by: VH/7/R/PR01son

(8 October 68)

Based on:

b.

d..

£

HJK-251

para 405

para 406

para

411

para

413

para 417

para

420

Disseminated to:

FBI on

10 Oct 68

6

7.

8.

9.

10.

il.

12.

13

14.

15.

FORM

4-42

610 USE PREHOUS

EDITIONS

Fil

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

Memos (record copy

w/att

CC:

100-300-44

CC :

PROD KINgStON

PROD

7523

EYES ONLY

B-191

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIEN

---

## Page 2

14-00000

206121

NO Y

.:.

9 OCT 1368

MEXORANDUM

SUBJECT:

Janaican Special Branch Report

Janalca/United States Black Power 710s

1. Pertinent items from the Janaican Special Branca

monthly repart for April 1968, which contains several

references to ties between Black Power groups in jamaica

and the united States, are provided, in full, below.

A

sunary of the report, omitting portions concerning the

United States or United States citizens, has been dissemin-

ated in CS-311/06459-68, a copy of which 19 attached.

2.

The items of posaible interest, omitted fron the

disseninatios, are noted below:

13 April, Percy Hayles, the boxer, said that he was

"Mohannad asking for a scholarship to enable hin to

6332

four meetinge of the Vileon

"faction of the Nation of Islan (NOI) were beld. On

impressed with the doctrine and had written to Elljan

study in one of the Islan Universitles in the United

"States. Errol Lavy sald that only a revolution could

end the shite man's practice of robbing the black

people oi everything.

b. At the neeting on 24 April, Cecil (Prince

Buster) Campbell stated that the premises on 47 Charles

Street in Kingston belonged to him and he was willing

for it to be usod for the assistance of the black race.

He called for unity among black people and said that

his organization vas fighting to mie Jamica. He

told nembers that they should be prepared to meet the

"-Reverend Sherriffe (aka. Thomas View) who would soon be

visiting the Island.

on the Sth and 8th of April, discussions were

"hold led by George Vassel, leader of the Young Socialist

1-77 -. •-

Excated desa calamaa

friaries and

---

## Page 3

14-00000

i win twi

- 20

League and a member of the Jamaican (Caribbean)

workers lovement, on the possiblifty of holding

demonstrations at the Anerican Embassy

in Kingston

to protest against the assassination of Dr. artin

Luthex Klag.

Vassel clained that there was a Untted

States citizen hiding in Janalca to escape the draft

who had 12 his possession recordings of speeches made

by the lato Malcolm Y during 1964. One of theso was

entitled "The Ballot or Bullets".

He stated that King's

death disproved his theory of non violence and was

bringing into prostrence nen like Stokely Carmickral

and H. Rap Broon.

During April, about 40 persons including

Winston Monroe, Joteph Christle, Boy Jeffrey, Leonard

Solomon and one Ny Survad, who 1s the American dralt

escapee referred to in Paragraph e, above, met at

29 Fourth Street, Trench Town (Dallas Corner), where

Burvad, identifled as a Black Muslim and & nenber of

the Black Power Hovement (BPH), ansvered questions put

to him by the gathering.

It was understood that Survad

was 11 Janates to solleft support for the BPM 1n the

United States as well as to establish a branch here.

The recaid "The Ballot or Bullets" was played by.

Survad and recorded by Monroe.

Survad accepted George Myerg* invitation to

attend a get-together which be was arranging in Savanna-

la-Mar on 11 May, and to spend a week or two with him

.. there.

They discussed the Congress of Racial Equality

(CORE) and the BPH, and 1t was suggested that a local

'Steering Comittee should bo appointed to consider the

formation of a gIoup in jamica.

Coment: Survad has subse

-quently been identified as John Davis, ala Selvyn Grey,

3 member of CORE and the Black Muslims.

He is in touch

with Rastafarians at sintyre, and the leaders of the

Viking and Spade Gangs.. He is expecting to neet one

-Corporal Janes, aka "Jiny" of the Jamaica Deience

Foice, who is said to have conplained that he vus

deprived of pronotion because of his views.

Artango

nents were also being made for hin to meet Walter Rodney

of the Iniversity of the West Indies. Survad has stated

---

## Page 4

14-00000

that ff given the chance he would, within eighteen

nonths, stage a denonstration.

He has suggested that

11 his colleagues can supply marijuana and find & way

to export it, he could guarantee an outlet in the

United States and the money thus obtained could be

used to iinance the local Movement. Survad was being

supported by his girlfilend, Bernadine Houston, tho

mas expected to arrive iron

the United States towards

the and of the ensuing nonth. He is non in straitened

ciroumtances.)

WE/7/R/PROlSon:mbk (8 October

1968)

Distribution:

Orig - FBI W/att

= CI/OPS/DO

1

- WH/7/R/JATS

1

- C/ WH/7/ JATS

1 - C/K/FI

Based on: HJK-251

a. - para 405

b.

or para

406

c.

para

411

d

para

413

e.

tron

para

417

f. - para

420

---

