# 104-10186-10242

## Page 1

104-10186-10242:

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INTORMATION KEPORT

INFORM TIONGREPORI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE ÄGENCY

This mitertal containi

18. Us.C. Bica Tes önd she, the

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO

CS CI-316/01215-64

DATE DISTR

16 September 1964

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background-Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

4

3

2

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT MOISES CARTAYA Moltalvo

DATE OF

1959

INFO..

PLACE &

Washington,

D. C:

DATE ACQ. September

1964

FIELD REPORT NO

LADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE - APPRASAL Of CONTENI IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Conments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source

and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the

addressees take no action.on any.of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

1..

Source met Moises CARTAYA Moltalvo in the Department of

Investigations of the Police in 1959.

He does not know where

CARTAYA could be at the present time but assuses that he is not

in Cuba.

Source

said CARTAYA was

born about 193½.

tor 1935, weighs

150 pounds has a medium build, and is a Negro.

Headquarters Comments

1.

Attached to a document dated 19 October 1900, was a copy

of a directive issued by the Departamento Tenépico..

Investigaciones (DTI) listing courses to be given by the

Department and members of the police. who were to attend

the courses.

Included on the list of students was Moises-

A. CARTAYA Montalvo.

2.

In a report dated 3 May 1961, a fairly reliable source

identified Moises CARTAYA Montalve as a nenber of the

Departamento Tecnico de

Investigaciones (Technical

of Investigations - DTI) of the Cuban National

Revolutionary Police.

STATE

1 O1A

ARMY

REX

CINCLANT

¡Nora: Field distribution indicated by "#".)

NAVY

CINCSe *

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

I AIR

INSA

I&NS

OCR

I FBI 2

5

4

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATLON REPORT.

HH/ SA/ EOBL

WE/S/R

I CI/LIA

ITEFCAYADATI

WHI/SA/MOBI

WE HADR

2LCI/R$A

i - .1086

MH/SA/R

LE BRITISIN

INO PROJECT (AMMUG/1)

I/MASH/BR]

CSCI-316/01215-64

MH/SA/CI 4

HU WAYE

¡COORDINATING

TOTALAWH/SA 7 (1),

NE 1 (2), CI 4,

RID 1

Lraison.8

WAK ; 1

CI/BA

stik

201-Yone

FORM NO

19-6-102/4

..a.

31BR

---

