D_ADAALD
‘rod 10683-10089 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF

‘To: Assistant Deputy Director, Plens To Te ADV MEY GS
From: Chief, payer

Subject: cable “from Chief, sR Division re Possible i role
z Slaying é oe a

“Ol the following is the text of a cable from chiar, | ‘SR Division, sent
via’ closed channel from Frankfurt at 23162 on 8 23, November, . for the sttention
of Mr. Angleton: Bes, :

|
|
|

"le. I desire that you consider ‘ese reactions to the Kennedy
assassination: |

! a. Within minutes of the first news, Moscow radio statements
: : : ee as heard in London attributed the assassination to "right-
wing elements." Only as the true identity of the believed
> assassin became known did Moscow begin to complain that
U.S. reactionaries were using Oswald as a pawn.

be Should not ‘the assignment of 13th Dept. officers to the KGB
residency in the United Nations in New York be considered
in a new light?

ce. I discovered from Arthur Martin (of MI-5))during our long
and exceptionally valuable discussions, t one of Harold
Wilson's principal scientific advisors is Captain Ien Maxwell,
who has a long Soviet intelligence background. This may
shed new light on AELADIE's report /I.e., that.Harold Wilson
may be a Soviet agent7. :

2. Putting it baldly, was Oswald, unwittingly or wittingly, part of

a@ plot to mrder President Kennedy in Dallas as an attempt to
further exacerbate sectional strife and render the U.S. Government
less capable of dealing with Soviet initiatives over the next
year? If AELADLE'’s views on Wilson and the information noted in

. paragraph le above have any substance (end. they cannot be ignored),
this suggests that we can expect major Soviet pressures over the
next several months, for which the Soviets have made careful,
long-range preparations."

2. The above reference to 13th Dept. officers in New York refers tothe
presence, reported by an FBI penetration of the KGB locally, in New York or
Washington of one or. two known officers of the 13th Department of the lst Chief
Directorate (Foreign Intelligence) of the KGB. ‘his at anbperay is charged with
"33 affairs," sabotage and assassination. One of the 13th

7 CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
Document Number 33-527 -_

for FOIA Review on , APR 1976 |

CONDUCTED OF
EARSAMPDET CL pyos22oe.

ad iw 65
Qo0(- 254948


by the. way, met clandestinely with a Soviet "exchange student" from a
Pennsylvania university during the school year 1962-63, which suggests that
the Soviet student is also a 13th Dept. officer or agent. Perhaps _
a bis course of studies was in food chemistry! 7

-3.' You will, note that Mr. Murphy" 8 comments come without benefit of.

thé traces we pBased’ to you earlier today, showing that Oswald hea contact ©
Diheod a 13th Dept. representative. in Mexico City. :

“he : Another recently-arrived cable, being sent to the Director- tonight, |

‘suguests that Oswald's business with the Soviet Consul was connected with his
own visa.to the USSR and Cuba (in transit) and may, therefore, have ‘been
really rather than ostensibly innocent. iz

T. H. BAGLEY
