‘Woa-t0007- 10346) [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. RENNEDY: ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF eee ]

ft VislASSIFIED =

FROM: salad :
Chief, CI/R&A
2cl7

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)

“Chief, AF
7G 32

Chief, EE
3 D 3107

3.
Chief, FE
5 D 3107

4. iz
Chief, NE-..-----
6 D 3107

ponies, WE
4B 4405

6 f
Chief, WH
3 B 44 03

7.

8.
DDP
3.€ 2016

WwW.
CIU/R&A
2Ci17

12.

FORM

fom 610 “tomeng’* ECRET [] CONFIDENTIAL ([[] {NTERNAL = [UNCLASSIFIED
\


13-00000

PROCESSING

DISPATCH | = ——

Chiefs of all Stations

. BERS OMA ERS ORsK

FROM kK Q
Chief, KUDOVE SiMicroriom

Re Tiow REQUIRED - REFERENCES

FYI

1, The Warren Commission's Report on the assassination of
President Kennedy focused attention on the magnitude of the problem.
involved in the protection of the Chief Executive. As you know, it is
our responsibility, overseas and in headquarters, to render every
support possible to the Secret Service in the conduct of its statutory
responsibilities in the United States, and especially when the President
travels abroad,

2, The circumstances confronting the Warren Commission
produced discussion and testimony on various aspects of the problem

of Presidential protection and on interagency operational cooperation,
which normally do not find their way into the public domain, These
include the acquisition and dissemination of information, consultation,
coordination, and operational interchanges. I believe you will be
interested in the attached extracts of testimony given before the Warren
Commission by U.S, intelligence and security officials. Pertinent
Fortions have been side lined. I commend these materials for reading

by all officers in positions of senior responsibility in headquarters and
overseas.

\o

Document number 23 P27 BD visilarn M, KNIGH'
+60

for FOIA Review on SEP 4976

BISPATEH SYMBOL ANO NUMBER

READOUARTERS

100-300-12
0
ORIG'NATING.
orice oFFicen > FvesT

CUR&A’ Reymond G, Rocca
COORDINATING

symeou Date

Book Dispatch No. 4726 __|

RELEASING

iG =

DDP.

racory | DISPATC:



AF Division

baba
“Algiers vy
Bamako VW

a -es-Salaam ~~

Lagos [__f
Leopoldville +—

Nairobi —
Pretoria+~
Rabat ~~
Salisbury ~~

The above listing has been
reviewed in the AF Division.

Lee

(Initials)

s-

ve tibution For
Book Dispatch No. 4726.

EE Division

Athens oe
Bern —~
Frankfurt uu
Nicosia
Vienna

—

The above listing has been
reviewed in the EE Division.
ne

FE Division

Bangkok ¢~
Djakarta —~
Hong Kong -~
Honolulu

Manila ~~
Melbourne

a

Saigon —~
Seoul

Tokyo

Vientiane

-

The above listing has been

reviewed in Division,
_— -
—

(Initials)

‘C-R-E-T


NE Division

Ankara ~~

Baghdad ~
Beirut
Cairo

Jidda_ ~~
4

—

Kuwait —~
New Delhi 7”

Tehran a

The above listing has been
reviewed in the NE Division.

Distribution For :
Book Dispatch No. 4726

WE Division

Brussels“
Copenhagen -—~
The Hague «~~
Helsinki
Lisbon,
London:

Madrid ~

Oslo

Ottawa ~~

Paris —~
Paris/LCPIPIT ~~ _

Rome «~~
Stockholm ¢~

The above listing has been



: _ S-E-C-R-E-T
: Me : € 7 7 Distribution For
: fe Book Dispatch No. 4726

i

WH Division

[feeiaitaetetaen
Bogota ~~
Buenos Aires“
Caracas‘
Georgetown a
Guatemala City -~
Kingston «7
La Paz
Lima (~
Managua «~~
Mexico City
Montevideo .-—~

Panama Citw

rort-au-Prince ~~

Port of Spain -~
Quito —

Rio de Janeiro ~~
San Jose .~
emJeens

San Salvador -~
Santiago -~
me Santo Domingo “

Tegucigalpa .—

The above listing has been
reviewed in the WH Division.

Dy

(Initials)

-3-
S-E-C-R-E-T


DDP
ADDP
C/OPSER
c/TSD
C/CA
c/ccs
c/soD
c/Cl
C/FI

2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

C/AF

C/AF/1
C/AF/2
C/AF/3
C/AF/4
C/AF/5
C/AF/6

eee ee

C/EE
C/EE/G
C/EE/K
C/EE/SA

ree w

C/FE
C/FE/CH
C/FE/HULA
C/FE/JKO
C/FE/PMI
C/FE/TBL
C/FE/VNC

eee eee

C/NE
C/NE/1
DC/NE/AA
C/NE/4
C/NE/5
C/NE/6

ee een

Pee eee

BREE Pee Pee

Pee ee eee

Headquarters Distribution for
Book Dispatch No. 4726

C/WE
C/WE/1
C/WE/2
C/WE/3
C/WE/4
C/WE/5
C/WE/BC

C/WH
C/WH/L
C/WH/2
C/WH/3
C/WH/4
C/WH/5
WH/COPS
WH/POA
WH/POB
WH/Plans

CI/RRA

CI/ LIA
Cl/OPS/AF
CI/OPS/EE
ClI/OPS/FE
CI/OPS/NE
CI/OPS/SS
Cl/OPS/WE
Cl/OPS/WH

RID

Originated by: Chief, CI/R&A, Ext. 7468/23 December 1964

seghoer
