104-10132-10319. [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

oe SECRET

hief, SRS 18 Cctober 1967

oP Weeras and C/FICB/SRS
Fors M. L. Stevens 7 :
Document Number {3 U3 in 10 so) Y

(& PEREZ, Ralph
F244 26:

for FOIA Review on MAR 1977

i. Vith reference to Ralph PEREZ who is mentioned in H
paragraph 2 of the attached memorandum on Richard S. CAIN
i _» dated 9 October 1967, he would appear in all-probability to be i
\ Subject who in the spring of 1963 becante of interest to DCS (O0/C) :
' for routine exploitation as a source’ of foreign positive intelligence.

2. Cn 28 June 1963, Security advised DCS regarding an un-
substantiated report that Subject subscribed to the Communist
publication "VOZ de MEXICO" and was a Communist leader in
i944, He reportedly was « leader of the Communist nucleus in
the Chicage Mexican colony. According to a notation dated 6/26/63,
this information was ‘ considered resolved in Subject's favor through
1959 B.1. conducted on Subject's sister." DCS wae also informed

t that Subject's sister (Maria Guadalupe GALLARDO, with various
akas) was reported by reliable informants to have been a member

~—~@f the Mexican Commission of the Comminnist Party in 1946 and 2
card carrying Communist Party member in 1951, During an inter-
viewin 1954, she admitted attending meetings of the Communist
Party and a Communist Party school during the mid~-1930's in Chicago
but denied having attended Communist Party affairs subsequent to 1945,
or 46 ever having been a member of the Communist Party.

$oasdsnstnsuanronbanqesaasansqinesdansnanytasin/ReaeenGassaenenAy

3. With reference to Guillermo ESCOBAR, whom Subject

(PEREZ) is said to have given(Horace SPEED it) #199 499, aga
lead, he may or may not be Guillermo (ESCOBAR) MARTINEZ, aka:
Guillermo (MARTINEZ) 1 ESCOBAR, | #444 269, a Mexican citizen who
in October 1956 wasGsesued an operational approval for use as a mem=

er of the LIPSTICK Team in Mexico under This
appro: cancelled by WH/III in a memorandum dated 9 November
1957. There is no derogatory information in ESCOBAR’s file and no
information on him since 1957.

GROUP

7
Excluted trem automatic
ar T ownsrading a
| “EGRE ectesaiiesian

|
|
|
|
i


a SECRET

4. The only other Guillermo ESCOBAR on whom there is
information in Security Indices is an individual by that name. listed
in a 5 December 1949 report on-The Fourth (TROTSKYITE) Inter-
national. This Guillermo ESCOBAR, Secretary General of the
Federacion de Obreras de Imprente de Chile, was listed as one of
the personalities in the Partido Obrero Revolucianaria, an ‘affiliated”

Chilean organization.

M. D. Stevens
Attachment: memo dtd 9 Oct 67

MDS/cer

SECRET | ‘
