# 104-10100-10310

## Page 1

104-10100-10310j

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MULLUY: de

WN/3/BEXXC0

50:0

28 OCT 1253.

LEXICO CITY

5. C.

• !1A, E1S J, 50,

ANZI

2149S1e! M

SECR

E T

201-355959

JAWAVE

?? ..

R

" ...

117:

JAWAVE

79070

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

PERULEN

1. SUBJ BEY WAS GRANTED POA 7 MAY 1963, 201-356559 REQUESI1N0:

6 SONINE EXTENSION. OF FOA.

2. FPI: POL HAS REQUESTER FOLN DOS ATTRUPTRO RECROITUENT OF

SUBJ TALOGI MARIO DIS LA

LUARDIA] RURANT ASSET AID CLOSE FRIEND OF

SUBJ WHO NOW RESIDING IN PAPRILE, RECRUITHENT PITCH WAS MADE IN

WITZE FRITTE TO SUBS BY DE LA GUARDIAJAT SOS DIRRCTION. DE LAY

GENEDIA GAVE LETTER TO DIS FLIND/QUANTUM 55 iN FEB iDES FOR VITTHATE

FINIA, INITIAT TO SONS IN FEUN. HE DO HOT KHOW AT THIS TIE

FESTOSA GUANTUR SS EVER DELIVENED THE LETTER TO SUBJ. IN ANY EVENT

DO KETTY FENI SURI LÁS SIED RECEIVED BY OZ LA GGARDIA) TO DATE. DE

LA EÁRTIE HAS ASSESSIO SUBS AS FORATLY BBING IN OPPOSISION TU THE

ISE IN FORTEIN, AND AS FROLIDLY HILLING TO COOPERATE IN A

CAPUNTIE D

METING OPERATINI.

8. IN VISE FACT MAXI LUS SUCCESSFULLY ESTABLISHRD CONTACT WITH

in?

122195492

RILEABINO

COOLDIMATITO OFFICERS

GROUP 1

Lectocod lico arle

Oo-1088-90:09-04

REPRODUCTION DY OIHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

OPTICKA

Copy No.

IniT

---

## Page 2

Fast.

B401n

PAGE 2

Isru

S. LOS THACES OST BURY INDICATE POGE HAVANA, [2A ALE 1029;]

FLAT EE APPETIED (EE PARAD) COULTER, ET ESKAR, ALAGAN, 1086;

THAT ES ATTENDED CARTORA TRIj IN 1648; AND THAT ON/2 JAN 1540) NE

VAS DALUORD FULL ALISSION TO USA AT MIAMI INSCAUSE HE DID NOT

HAVE A VALID TIRA.

5. GINOR SUBY FAS ACCESS HIGH LEVEL PERUEN UFFICIALS AS

WALN AS SOVS AND ME AFFARENTLY BAS AGREED FURNISH INFO, REQUEST

RISTI FINCHED TO DEVYLOP THIS OP OH FRIORITY EASIS. PLS CABLE

DEVELONTS.

AND OF LISSAGE

FY COUNT:

Intries.

EAS/LUB Pr.

Trestin (in draft)

8.

Go Litt

Buttonst

ESTRARD B.

ES ICHANDT

CEO

THAD CIVICARD

AREnRe

" RETRODUCTICI GY OTHER THAN ENE ISSUINE OFFICE IS FROMIBITED.

Cron Ada

MMIT

---

