‘fto4-10186-107180 _ [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET — iH are

. NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CouNTRY Cuba REPORT NO, CS CI-316/00729-65
suwect "JORGE" (an alias) ‘ATE OISTR. 16 February 1965

NO. PAGES 1
RETURN TO CIA aeresences _CS-311/00115-64

Background Use Only (page 9)
DATE OF Nok Reproduce 8 July 1964)" ‘
INFO, heh a
Washington, D. C.
bate aca. December 1964 FIELD_ REPORT NO.

“IWS 1S UNEVALUATED POEMATION, SOURCE ORADINOS ANE OETINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT (8 TENTATIVE,

source. A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a scries containing personality
information provided by the source anc includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It 4s requested that the addressees take. no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1, "JORGE" is an apprentice on the British Guiana desk
in the Seccion Sur (South American Section) of the Departamento
de Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation Department - LN) of
the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence - DGI). i

2. "JORGEY" a Caucasian, was born between 1925 and 1940. He
is five feet eight or nine inches tall, weighs 145 pounds, and
has a thin build. "JORGE" has brown hair znd eyes, a long
neck, and a thin face. He has a nervous facial twitch,1

Heacquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no icentifiable information
on "JORGE."

5 : a 5

4 4

3 3
ce

2 SECRET eee ed

1 NO FOREIGN DISSEM ns 1

STATE Tow ARMY Tea Tare Lesa bet) Toce o
REP CYNCLANT_CINCSO TENS
Iheter Field Euribvtion Indicated by 72")

14 Jan. 1965)
NO PROJECT ( AUMUC

WE 2 (1), CI 4, RID 1 fauae

remwH SAS (1),

MT _
19-5-1 64 of

Lss-sbadtaasatee | ORAOLETR PRatroca EDrrTONA ow {A
