# 104-10103-10171

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10103-10171

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MESSAGUHANILINGINDICATOA

1. 6,-506

cara

DATS-TIME OMOUR'

ĐC/COG

CONF:

INFO:

027669

DISSEM BY: Z7

NO MORX

RETURNTO

PER gOT

#132

1075}

c/012,

c/po/ITc 2) 16494300

TO:/ PRIORITY FEDERAL BUREAU OF

INVESTIGATIONRWWHA

8. 0/EUR

ATTENTION: INTD-CI/3

3. 0/EA

CIR-316/01466-77

1/ MEAF

verbar

SUBJECT: RESPONSE TO FBI REQUEST CONCERNING VECIANA'S RELATIONSHIP

WITH CIA

1. WITH REGARD TO YOUR REPORT OF YOUR INTERVIEUS ON & AND IL

APRIL 197? WITH FELIX ZA BAL A MAS AND TO YOUR ORAL QUESTIONS

TO US CONCERNING STATEMENTS MADE BY HIM ABOUT VECIANA. IN

THOSE INTERVIEWS, THIS AGENCY HAS REVIEWED ITS FILE ON ANTONIO CARLOS

VECIAN A BLANCH. AS STATED TO YOU ORALLY AT OUR MEETING ON 13

APRIL: 1977, THIS AGENCY HAS NEVER HAD A CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIP WITH

VECIANA.. ACCORDING TO OUR RECORDS, VECIAN A CONTACTED

THIS. AGENCY ON THREE OCCASIONS TO DISCUSS HIS PLANS TO ASSASSINATE

FIDEL CASTRO. ON THESE OCCASIONS, OUR OFFICERS LISTENED TO

VECIAN A BUT EXPRESSED NO INTEREST IN AND OFFERED NO ENCOURAGE-

MENT. TO HIM AND NEVER RECONTACTED HIM ON THIS MATTER. THESE CONTACTS

OCCURRED IN HAVANA IN DECEMBER, 1960, AND IN NEW YORK CITY IN JULY

1962 AND APRIL 1966- THERE ARE NO INDICATIONS IN THE FILE THAT:.

DATE:.

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

MELIADIME OUTICER

COORDINATINO DEPICEMA

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

SECRET: In syly Do oral request

AUTHUNTICATINO OAPICHA

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: DIanau

---

## Page 2

14-00000

UU-GUING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

AGE

cor

ACE

TOO

OMF DO

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

TAX

MRO

DCI

0

PAGE

2

on

•AOES

DATY-TIMO GROUP

erra

CIA

KENCAMUBRN

CONF:

INFO: FILE

0

027619

INDER.

но ітохх...

• MATUrATO. PER

DISSEM BY:

CAT ANY AGENCY OFFICER IN CONTACT WITH VECIANA

EVER USED

ALIASES OF MORRIS BISHOP, BLAIR OR KAIL; OR EB} ANY AGENCY.. OFFICER

IN CONTACT WITH: VE CIAN A WAS NAMED BISHOP, BLAIR OR KAIL:

ACCORDING. TO OUR RECORDS, VECIAN A •NEVER RECEIVED ANY FUNDS

FROM THIS AGENCY.Y

2. AGENCY OFFICERS WHO SERVED IN HAVANA REMEMBER THAT THERE

WAS A MAJOR OR COLONEL. KALE OR KAIL IN THE MILITARY ATTACHES

OFFICE IN THE U.S. EMBASSY PRIOR TO THE BREAK IN RELATIONS. "

ALSO,

ONE OF OUR OFFICERS IN HAVANA WHO LEFT THERE IN THE SUMMER OF 1959

HAD THE FIRST NAME OF BLAIR Y

3..: SECRET/WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM. CLASSIFIED BY 012034. EXEMPT

FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E-O. L1652 EXEMPTION CATE-

GORY 5862}. IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICA-

TION -N

LA COMMENT: FBI OFFICIALS HAD PROVIDED COPIES OF THE DEBRIEFINGS OF .

ZABALA MAS AND HAD ORALLY REQUESTED CIA COMMENTS RE THE AGENCY'S RELA-

TIONSHIP WITH VECIANA.

• DATE:

. TRIG:

VIT:

RELEASING OFFICER

E.T

REPRODUCTY

COONDINATINO OAFICERS

AUTHANTICATINO DRAICET

3Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRON. ED

---

## Page 3

14-00000

OUTGOING - MESSAGE

8

¡SIGNAL CENTER USE ONL!

0

AbSItICATION

ECRET

¡SAGE MANOLINEINDICATON

TOO

Tre.

MRO

DiCI

PAGE

3

or

PAGES

DATE-TIME GROUP

ciTa

*- CIA

MEGRADE REFERENCE HUMHEA

CONF:

INFO:

FILE

NO MOEX

027664 0 0 PER

0

0

IF FILES

DISSEMI BY:

#:

CABLE SEC: PLS PROVIDE COPIES TO IP/AN FOR FILING IN 201-312966

AND 201-802841°

ORIG:: LA/COG/EXILE ESPEED, XI3257; COORD: C/LA/COG ÉLATRASH),

C/LAVOPS REVIE, AGCIDDO AGDIN DO CI/OG AFRIEDAND A SA/DO/O

/ATREAT; AUTH: AC/LA ELAUSEAT; REL: CAPCS/LSN-Staven L Kula

fired on

Ellio Matti rem of tes (until

SALIA MUS

DiATE:

29 APRIL 1977

UNRACE TOFEDERCH

CI/06-

/ Arilanda ei dea

Fatd..

---

