# 104-10111-10008

## Page 1

104-10111-10008

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

EVER PIY

scting Calof, Counter Intolliferco Staff

Deputy Direotor of Secialty (Imestigatlons and Support)

FrOjECE ICHARVEST

1z detobra 1000.

DDS/125-

ADDI/ISS

Dep Chiat

A la Chief

Ch. CaP

Ch. SRD

Cir. Mr.

Er.

Ch. Eup.

Er.

Cost 13-

1E:s 5B3

1.2 E Ting

Cantro! Dest

Roterotics la naño to your nemantia dated 6 Cotober 1960

which roguaated this offico to taka approjalate cotion to attcapt to

Interoept any lottora vent fron Cuba to la ostonaluto parento of tho

tues persons presently inprisoned by Cuban suthoritlor.

2a. In to cars of klud and Faxinl CMOVELl tho Dotlanal

gerants of tantel lunchill, thats addrass as listod on kia birth

certifleste lilshlara, fonarivant irransomento hano lonz maco

to provido that any mil addriciod to cruelt at Chlam° Tensyl

varla vili ta redirectod to a pont offloy box ontailished und

serviced by this offlos st miladelabla, Pemsylvala.

in suiltion,

tho tans of hla parcita have toma added as coaltrasares of tha

backatomped liva sidroes origally cotablised by this offico for

Chintle at Eastorestor, lew Iorko Pala address appears as hia

currant rosidonde adoress sa his crimera licanse an other docunts

3. Bastace and eledra panaur, 255 Eudora Avors, Cloroland,

chio, ero llatod as mirants on the birth cartiflerto carried by

Eustoca 1. DARRUIT.

It bsa boon cotozinod that thera is no Endora

Avarus In Clorolant,

though there is an Indora Fonde Fowavor, bouss

mumbers on Endora load 1un only fros 16500 to 11820.

Dito bion comleted to puride that my imit adscased to Maicuit at

Enilore Avenue de indora Road will bo Intercepted and dalivored to a

représentatite of this offloa

4o DantRET'a drivers licenso unt othor cosuentation list 3915

folftald ine, lalthor, largland so his crorent, stress.

N01 SApsy

apartreat has boon liated In tha nare of sitater at this sidress,

which can

sa ratainod only until suda tira as the mangement obtains

e sorraone commut color a lore to lease. it tay la arpected that:

the apartmost will bo rented surine the next monta, at mira tisa

arrraneutta will to made to ford any nail for tarrun or sio

mento to a port offica lox catabllubad and scruleed by this offico

at saltiora, inglanda.

4387.2

Zite

---

## Page 2

5.

Concaring Malior and tua Pilliatt, the rotlonal garenta of

Genere lo zaniste ando colpeta initoales ter ponted ast sta

claurille Avoron,

hanochucotta.

There Is no zunine 5k on

Glonvilla Arinta

la Eastono

To alto sa occuplod ly apartit dousea,

nona of uhich 1s misterod 54o

temcasanta hare beaa rara to provide

that any mall accraand to illakt or lie mienta at clorille ivera

will bo rodireotod to a roct orisce box catablisho1 ans servicad 18

thia office at tosters

The edredo 509 "ast 77 Oravat, lea Jork 0145a sepasis 08

TArds 113 documentation as 11s carent addica1.

A monat spartanit

hao toon rented 1a IAMAI'S mi at this addrons throunh 31 Cotober

IDEo, and mall addroned to bla do h13 rational parata 41ll la

socoptod.

I8 1t la coctaod that tro agent slanld to rotated

sitar 31 Cotoles 1251,

tata cifica mould bo provided with an allot

mant nustei to cover additloual ronta paguania, undon wil io

approxisitoly one handred and forty dollara (1140e) per sonti.

rotention of tho aportinat in Talloki's nors 1a conolzarod unaces

sarto this offico vill mango a forarlire proconua to re-direct

ary ball to a yost ordica los di leu Tori City, unon advica froa your

offico.

To. In resporaa to jour Ingulry no ta what Miososltion would

normally to sndo of foraton mail unich la uniolivrablo lecoure of an

Ircorrect adtraos, you are aortead that loonl post offico stitiona

vill salia po attospt. to soforaino il thero 19 a local correct addroza

fus the edisaanno by checkare local directories, so thay vill do with

matl of comatio origin

Feralen mall which is lucorreotly addreasod

1s considarod "undolivorable", and 18 ratinel lo tha country of

origina with no nurage do coteraine tho corress ancorazio

In accortanco vith the request contalred in pararach tra of

your roferenoad nenomindur, the follouine post effica ad tress hag bern

established for jour taos

3/7U

MinItsharo 15, Maryland

Tale addrodo will En corrioed on a mos workly tosis, uat1l

avies 1s recaiud Dron tour offies Inalesting tard servicing ahould

to incisacod.

Your etilos will to sotlfiee ugon tha i dolat of fury

mall tuoneh this oot orflos tor, or through any of tha armngerenta

sto Doston, los Tuel, Clovoland, Chlandor Enelisioo.

FOR IUS DEUCTER CE SCRITES

CO8

43816

13055062067

43872-

LAVERE :II'O

14 Oct 60

Vinter R. Mita

---

