# 104-10014-10057

## Page 1

1104-10014-10057

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DOC. MICRO. SER.

~ SECRET

FEB *1 1992

2P

гую

HALL REST. CODE FOR

LOCATION OF FILE

111. 6940-CIn TO

MAGALB

ПроБ, Смідт нЕ

MEMORANDOROPPEMEDeputy Director for Operations

FROM:

Michael K. Cline

Acting Chief, Soviet/East European Division

SUBJECT:

Soviet Volunteer Allegations Re Oswald

Involvement in Kennedy Assassination

201-996÷2018

name Velktor) who had additionally been a controlled agent

ZHURAVLEV stated that OSWALD had actively

conspired with two former US presidents to assassinate

former President Kennedy. ZHURAVLEV when pressed could not

provide any additional information.

This information was

transmitted to Headquarters in a staff channel message with

nO LIMIT Or RYBAT control.

We have taken immediate steps to

have this message removed from the message system to prevent

further access to it.

2.

As

background, ZHURAVLEV is an unvetted volunteer

who walked-in to Warsaw Station on 30 December claiming to

be a former KGB officer with access to leads concerning

Western agents of the KGB. The above information was

obtained during the second meeting with him when the station

was attempting to obtain details on the alleged leads to

which he claimed access. When pressed to provide

information, he had only one vague agent identification in

canada and para one above information.

He was not able to

provide any other leads despite claiming some twenty years

of service in the KGB.

3.

Based upon information received to date, we

consider ZHURAVLEV to be a highly questionable source.

Warsaw describes him as being stressed out, shaking and in

fairly rough physical state; he was considered to be of no

operational interest and to not have further intelligence

value.

He departed the Embassy without incident and no

further contact is anticipated.

As regards para one allegations, we have

substantive information from IJDECANTER (attached) which

outlines Oswald and wife's KGB connections and emphatically

denies any KGB involvement in dispatching Oswald to

assassinate President Kennedy.

We have no information from

any Soviet intel source indicating that the KGB had contact

with Oswald after he returned to the US or that he conspired

with

any other element in the assassination.

FOr YOUr

RECORD COPY

5x-59777

1520k91

---

## Page 2

13-00000

- SECRET

SUBJECT:

Soviet Volunteer Allegations Re Oswald Involvement

in Kennedy Assassination

background information IJDECANTER was a Second Chief

Directorate KGB officer whose bona fides were fully

established.

Michael K. Cline

Attachment:

As Stated

CC:

DC/CIC w/att

2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

..:.

ROUTING AND TRANSMITTAL SUP

Date

4-28-92

ra: (Mama, office symbol, room number

Initials

Dato

The Jole to

X Action

a File

Approval

For Clearance

As Requested

For Correction

Circulate

For Your Information

Comment

Investigate

Note and Retum

Per Conversation

Prepare Reply

See Me

Signature

[Coordination

Justity

REMARKS Our records indicate the attached document is

classified into a file currently charged to you/your

office.

PERMANENT

T TEMPORARY

Please file this document

SUBJECT/

1:1 file since

it may be of immediate value.

If the file is no longer held by your office.

return this coversheet together with the attached

CHECK IF UNABLE TO LOCATE

SUGGEST POSSIBLE LOCATION:

DO NOT usa this form as a RECORD of approvals, concurrences, disposals.

clearances, and similar actions

FROM: (Name, org. symbol, Agency/Post)

OSG/CFB

5041-102

#U.S. G.P.O. 1 977-241-53013090

Room No.- Bidg.

GC-52

HOS

Phono No.

339177549

OPTIONAL FORM 41 (Rov. 7-76)

Prescribed

GSA

FPMR (41 CiO 101-33.206

OP-2

---

