“\104-10192-10282) ° f 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

He ea oes CI
: Pata a Hee ot
i ey eine eae Se ade ane
Varsenrea er SMM yal ee 1.

Mevixdeats te Recuperectin 2evelacienarte « MRA

A, RITARLO « selected te WAVD948
2 WAVE 8567 wates te echeduled for 15h, ~~

3. FAVE. 8587 » operation BRAZIL

4. Operation VILLA AMOUR - WAVE 8997 i

WALS (is group we are plasaing opesstions for Visser, Matsanse and Loa VE'ss

afthin nena ale weeds, “aadere of thle SIPDSBNULZEX “AMJAVA-4 and RAG AK:
{Wo ave tretatag :
wit be Laftlerated withis next sie veshe | SHWRS Lites Fado operators (52 |

daase. This training will & .

1248 group yles tee lactructes¢ wesaone Bod

bp the Mrat of Decerser,” -

Jiu ef Naw oter Grow

Thts ecvered 4a WAVE 874) saga ail take ploce by 30th of Newember, Fis

Ghat the group ef}! continos in ongqcle ton end operations, Trataing of pire ace

{a Oe cere for Rabe grove os previzeal evzap bad apall @ all geouze.

ta Revclusiomerte

iebibvarvent of thaws meayroveceeding erations, WAVE 8335, ates.

“AL be piacad on oif-enere chvea sas receics seppiion whenever ebeather :

“uvther tepaiag bed te :aaai ve ayle to o4as Deate When Wabtier acd u

Aisa Corns Utee sas cy. Mivet are ty Comagesy oo fo::

rezeire nant for rece

wa Mer, Treat

ee Co Cy .



wo anwnd end (he this boat, Tais group has aot

stuabvato Revaluctenario de} Dveblae BMP uw

Te 80 peep’
ry type to des) with, We are dealing through ri

re ingging benind cther yroupe. Wwe dca’t have @ qualified

Ys intead to get foar peogte of their's by 15th of December, We did aepport
acy operation where cur requirements re reception petote ete, would perail,

CRS EMA HISSRELX «We turped therm down lant weed because they had

a bad boat,

, Baezate

‘Thiv group proposed to pst tn a teain to establish caatact wits Laternal azsete.
Gevep without communications to aside and have cps rntors who refnse to go in
ditnd, This group hao not been affective since AMDIP-3 left, TAis operation

could go within six weeks Hf we had cose officer tire.

AMHAZE Group
- 4 = re - ?
WAVE 8659 © Following this we are slanaias one in the Santa Clara ragion - cozze

mine shore extrema wost end ef Island. Critical communications.

Train fire men for groap 15h November. Trataing of oparator will proceed
¢urrentiy, Eeterosted in GW and revise plaas to rset prosant policy requirement:,
“iret rhree man of this group fate Sierra Crista) ca or adoat 20 Dacembar,


Tour operations vere subcolted by the AMCTS -<

CERS “IMO and ove additlons! vitdout name. First thre
acd will be Implemented whtbic 91x sweke, Fourth plan te delag atodied and

caa also he tnpigmerted within ebe weeks, CHOCHEST te operations where team

going ia NY rth coast and thay are to eet ep the dispatch and reception potats.
Figs. haa details for COCHISE, APACHE, AND GERANINC. . The pending
vperation which can go Ir six wenka to a tear: cf dont three people and they

ili go tr 45 miles eaat of the CHOCHISE polst.

Eg asetetn
SACTA
Savvtage plan eetaitred Sv the FORD on che Sales radio station sant

wy Porth siewady, Sect oca cian ia AEC AMICI~10 fer collection of the nae exrars

unfor~ation om the area, Plea orU! tn effect.

Plas eubmitred by the PRE « Aerautt 3ONIATC prisson, Cnly consicecss 2.

withsa
popessia wohtin yeners? pian of overall Nberatica but ett

vwnder conalderatisr.

Plen for auppcrt ef clapdestiae goers Lia forces ta volume within the ars

gebmitlad Nerth, WAVER cad vo indication {raza tp more Te Approval or at.

Pray
Plan which we docs up fer tie decoction of turse saval cilte of Santin

Toest Belare retresur ¢

have ret Comsiceres BR avd Save not seat un ocr,

ive of cartioua! action Bion.

er Use ets

Ala od)

ei porteulminado ©

Se Peat a eemeremporn encral tepms, Bot can start ever &



AY af these people we are plancing pens sa! oe 2s2059 safesions.- 2ttach

electric power, communication, transportation and masertal

Motor veaeel XE VILARO noxt six weeks tele vouse: will begis witt mote
sratienatly:

sommereial tretning. After at least one euver vova ce used

Gan be used with ether veasele to supply long range eraft. Very slow ant we

uss ecautlously, We don't have vessel capability for reccelag south coast,

TEJANA could to thie within four weeks, freeaseing purchase of bost form: -

other side, (Referring to Scotland),

“int Team

Team of four people presently capable of roaritine rocaa and operations.

Commeateations

Presently have siz foozle in trainiag two ptopie will vegeme instructors and
4ogeratore)

forux operational operatore. Will tars three raciod in tires weexe, one tn

throe mosthe,  ERXPOONiNa eRe
For GK the future we have 13 candidates ail of tera have bed some training
49 othare move out they will be moved in. Spettei 7 teste candidates prina rily

from these groups. With our present staff espadle of tretning etx paopic at

one the observiag comparimentation. With adiltons] indclyaneus instrverore

oJ at any one thus with obrerving compartrusctation,

OT a ee a RIE rp



Deuleat ew are

carl

fe ingepeodiat ozaretong mut rere t
pe ys

to way for repatre. Sceerizy

og eomoartet

tr they woul

saduitm ef ladles boats B te te Ras paar
tn tature, byt sot ua! Capable ¢rews and Zoos bunts.

ra tc sie #sbermen vip

ue, Next tentative operation propoesd by AMS COT +

Ra uh es

canes boats heave (tena), Cobar eeaeaie, obict

tevestiagetig this, We heve mun ar ope ss

n with shia gfowp. It teers geod

ata ce sro going to develop,

Seder Indvpendest, AMCUTLER-1, G2 hat cuatsst with COVALOG RAMIAL SC in

tmeanibeay eho desires rajport. Ve have given sin cutteliase for operation.

watad go vweral salt pe

Tiaime no hae 6-19 mea with tralaing oud have k

ve one trying to Arles bie wack to group from we{ch bs ene,

(GARCIA BRITO ~ Talo group bas trained radio cprrsian bers ard fears ina

ta Lee Villas, Question of ttre and lacks of communtcstteas with triercal sasote.



_

ADA, wonderful rca, © :wrierced

“ah by » baner

Camaguay cosets. Coot idee ea eotablisiment of mangrove caching

factitty: olwtlar to proposal et UR, They are sood croup so we're’ mea

iota use bis know how, : 2

22th of May Group = Have made requrest for support. Off-shoot of S0th of ” ~
November Group, Ae a splinter of thie group, being advised to rejoin thelr”

perent group, Exploring ponsibility of eupportinz tham HM they cannot rejoin

“paren, Thetr plans coms to ue Aedes tl AMCLATTER-1

GC © Requests are samo ae from other groupe, and thie is splinter of

2SRR, Wo have told thom to rejoia parent and provids them general guidelines.

who want
Indezontant group of ca-np tralears - 40 meneza supplies and transportation

to Oriente. No commanications aad willing to sacrifice themsolves in G¥.
Given guidelines to forget about GW and get resistance plan. Their epckesman

is Frod Gevdls.

independent Group of JUAN MESA - formerly of NDC, Gensrally colected about
four independent boats which he operats os coordinater. Runcing reseue operations

and wants support. For inctence, wauts support oparation to oxfiltrate oight
children from weat coast. Soaking support (or an Oriente Infiltratica
tazm beaded by PRPIN LOPEZ acd 33 mea. Turned Aim coun, BYdt Dent

have eapablélity to deliver,

f
i
i
|



“pd

tsdepesdont sab prop neaded by ALDO VERA SEAATIN waste traiaing ant
sofort of formal oad group. “Csime ho will Bit targets in Havona oysa. we have

net even talked to. him on beats. of poor CL background, Spokesman te “Conte ‘Agusro.

: tae :
Independent aab group of OSCAR DIAZ wantaAe previous grecp, Clalm they an

wit targets throughout Cuba, Ano associated with Coats Aguero, WAVE experience
with this man lo euch that we doa't lock Aipdly oa this requast, Ao member of

FDR rallttary he made things €1fGeult.

Indapondest group - JULIAN DIAL FESNANDEL - Claims to hare 309 consthtaticnal
ermy mea inside, Radio oat hore, Willing to go back. WAVE exploring this. FED

try to He Bim to ancther group, det Mf unowrcoasfol asd find his claims valid plas

to ougport Rims.

ORLANDO SOUTO = proposes to barrens B CTC rally in Cusnqeite Stadium ta
Miramar tonight by (iring 78 mm Righewsxa expldsive edsligints stadia from

off shore. Teld bim no dive,

nes the CAC plan at Hoedquertare hand carried by Bob Pavia and given
to (Choddes phould be tacheded in report. We would Hike to have it back poen.

Cne other operation + « AMBANTY el - » This sins hes 500 people'ta Pinaz del Blo.
Iie te being treiood and should go wach te Decembor i
a



Lo Wri CONCEIVED
SEL CONCEIVED
A. Non-politieal Group =. infitrate seren mon, Reeruft, deveiop

and organise Pesletaseo, fnteltgence nets, ete, Underway
A by nitd-November, BER
B. Same’ non-political Group... Team 8 aa adore, tafsrats five,
operation won be waerway, eudjact to weather tencians.
GC. MRR oe Bfiltration operation, Deliver 359 pounds darictttton,
lafiltrate polities! leader, ceruizate two others. Vaderway !
ae audject to weather eenditions,
D. UR w: Team compored of tmteraal leader af group phae
intellgonge ecordicstor to de- laftitrated vy December.
E. Independent Groep hesded by FVEIIO DUQUE .. Trals five

snen fer prose 12th November, Tialaing af opersior'will |
‘prscoed Survently, First three mea cf tls group will f0 Into i
Sierra Cristal on or adout 20 December, |
i F. Another Inde poadent aroup elaims contac! with OSVALDO
RAMIREZ ty Eoeambroy, who desires support. We have
Siven gulds}ines for operations, Callens has 3010 man with
training and have inflterated genera! etal,
ya 15, MRP 0. tntand get four people of this group inside dy 15 December,
H a JOGIAZERS © Ex MOR ~ Dan with exparienee aleng Camazeny
{ coast has fencible plan for sotablishiag mansrore faching
facility, |



eae :
‘Above is sampling of operations in this catagory, All shove
have training W/T, other support (nellities, provided oF closely
suporviced by. CIA. eeu
Il, POORLY CONCESVED BUT RARMLESW °

A, Reocata «+. This group rpoposod to pet {a a team to eotabites
contest with fmvornal neaets. Group without communications
to inside and hava eperstors who refuet to go ta bitad,
LD. MEP o Good intentions bvt thelr direct propesals, ae apposed
to those undor cor direct supervision, | repeatedly taresd éoun
by ws because of tad boats, me W/T, ete. Sa

almost
CG. ADC oe Gred plans, good intentions, fall asects outsite, nek

militart group inetde.

ML POORLY CONCEIVED BUT LETHAL
A. ORLANDO SOUTO ~ Proposed to harress 8 CTC wally in

- Quanquite Btadinas in Miramar tonight by firing 75 mm highe

explesives inte stedium form eff shore. Told him no dice.

B, DRE e-'Plantoassaui BCNIATC prison, Ne specifics. ,
Woutd be of gonaral interest caly wader pln ef everall Mberne
ten, :
. : under
C. White Croes -« Agarehletis approach. Prepare toAake any
7 .
exaoh and grad sperctinan, Hich rus factor, igh loss:

