[104-10168-10033) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

2

: CONFIDENTIAL j
Control: 1185
Reeds July 2, 1959
7:17 a.m.

FROM: Copenhagen
10: Secretary of State
NO: 2, July-2, 10 a.m. ; oa

SENT DEPARTMENT 2, REPEATED INFORMATICN Yoscow 1
DEPARTMENT ALSO PASS HEADQUARTERS CIA 3

Harold Citrynell born March 10,1923 New York, N.¥, US passport

mumber 743901 including wife Beulah, daughter Mailyn G. issued
* January 20, 1958 Washington, D.C., aerived Copenhagen with family

June 29 from Moscow claiming involuntary detention USSR from

October 28, 1958. States entered USSR via Czechoslovakia .

February 27, 1958 as tourist but intending establish residence : . : A

and acquire Soviet citizenship. Claims exployment as Desigu-

Engineer Kharkov, disillusionment Soviet system, decire return

US soonest and inform authorities of his activities. Interview —

b: Indicates USSR has attempted and may continue attempt

amily and/or family's activities to derriment Sand Citryneil
anging privately funds necessary passage US probable desti-
nation mother Mi Eva Citrynell 2741 Walace Avenue, Bronx,
Rew York or wif father Abraham Marcus 304 E Place Bronx.
Departwent may xish infac: doneresred agencies of prospective
return. Will cable time, place of arrival when known.

t Bortion(s) of it

visions of the JFK Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992 (PL 102-526)

Qa wel a
kingny VAT

EibP

PETEKSON ase

perk -

roi

and: release (s)

Portion(s) Postponed Under_ 6(1)(A)-

‘The Depariment of State releases this document

-+-in part and postpones. oO

‘under the

_ Reviewed on,

ST aan alae nee 3 3 ee

yc aie 7 * aig ta Pe"
yn hak Le er

Ayer Lye

n
ce
cH
2

UNLESS “UNCLASSIFIED”
REPRODUCTION FROM THIS
COPY IS PROHIBITED.

The Department of Statg
this document
sate oo. ~~ Assassinatio
