Viod-10073-10400

% . ° :

13e
‘SEC

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
GFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

Teitiacs

DIGECT_REPLY PREP

DISPATCH REGOMIRER
FL RETURIS _
FORMATION signarede

Attached are two tolotypes (HTOR=3040 and

weoe-7120) and a momorandun entitled °Plan

te Overthres Castro”, «12 of which contain
nfernatie fran ans abot rack Ficeimi.
A copy of HYR-3040 wae cont to you oa 7 March
Ficring bas offercd to relay informati«a
obtained thresh an alleged informant not
in Cuts te 12 our field officer. Are you
interested .. saving ee foley up on thio?

Please roferonee W106 in roplying
to Suirloy Stotoea, Support Branchy €0/60, £2265

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO GENOER,
PROM: KAM. ADDASSS AND PHONE NO, Dare

S.Srotoua, £P/0Q,. Suprart 3/35/6.
CONFIDENTIAL_[__| SECRET.
aay a sevewa rama ea erat

Josld

(2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

germ cs.

a


Bessie: maraaat]

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGF
OFFICIAL ROUTING

ACTION Dinecr_REPLY al
‘APPROVAL DISPATCH

COMMENT Fue

‘GONCURRENCE, Tinrontiarion: SIOHATURE

Remarks:

Attacked aro two tolotypos (HYOR-30KC
WYOR-3110) ard a momorandua entitled "Plc:
to Overthrow Castro", all of uhich coats?
information frsa and about Frank Fiorini
A copy of HYGR-3040 ms sont te you ca”
Florink hav offered to relay infornatic
obtained throagh aa allored infornant
in Cuba te cae of our fiold efficov.
interested in having uo follew up cat

Please rofaroneo Wiel06 im roply!
te Shirloy Stotesn, Support Branch, Ch,

FOLD HERE TO RETURN To SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADOREGS AND PHONE NO.

&Steteon, 65/00, Support
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL

View's 237 SeebRay Sous 8 covenant tt

