{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

0d-10534-10012)

OCA 2366-92
2¢ Ri a2

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

FROM: Stanley M. Moskowitz
Director of Congressional Affairs

SUBJECT: Status of JFK Legislation

1. This note is to advise you of the current status
of the JFK Joint Resolutions.

2. Since your testimony last month before the Senate
Governmental Affairs Committee, we have worked with
Senator Glenn's staff to resolve various CIA concerns with
the Senate version of the Resolution. The staff agreed to
amend the Joint: Resolution to accommodate all of our major
concerns.. The Resolution now provides that the initial
review of documents for public release will be done by the
originating agencies and that the President will have the
power to postpone the release of Executive Branch
information in congressional documents. The Committee
marked up the resolution on 25 June and it will be taken up
by the full Senate following their Fourth of July recess.

3. The JFK Joint Resolution was referred to four
different committees in the House. The Government
Operations Committee has voted to report a substitute
version. This substitute is less favorable than the Glenn
redraft but addresses several Administration concerns, such
as Presidential appointment to the Assassination Materials
Review Board. The Committee did not agree to include in the
legislation the concept of initial review of assassination
records by the originating agencies or Executive branch
review of its information in congressional documents.
However, we have worked with Committee staff, who have
agreed to address CIA concerns in their report. That report
is due to be filed imminently. The House Judiciary, Rules,
and Administration Committees have not yet acted on the
legislation, although the relevant Judiciary subcommittee
reported the original Stokes version to the. full committee.
The House is likely to adopt the Joint Resolution as
reported out of the Government Operations Committee, but no
earlier than after the Fourth of July recess.

‘Bef Barly M. Mostowt
be

Stanley M. Moskowitz


SUBJECT: Status of JFK Legislation

as,
OCA/LEG/VLPepper;:me/37914 (26 June 1992)

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
- DpcI
- ExDir
~ D/OCA
- Gc
D/CSI (D. Gries)
- ER
- OCA Records
- Leg Subj File
- VLP Signer File
- VLP Soft File

PRERPBPPREPBE
'

OCA 2366-92
