# 104-10236-10053

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10236-10053

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

вати

DIBTRI

ACTIONI

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

GLAOSIRICATION

INITIALO

OTO

101008Z

DATE: 18 OCT 62

FILE.

DEFERRED

RARRROUTINE

COMI

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

11558

TO

DIR

INFO

WAVE

CITENNIS 0208

NUMOTI

GYROSE AMBUD

REF A. DIR 495,82

B. KNGS $292

1. COS BELIEVES HIS REF B APPRAISAL JAMAICAN POLITICAL CLIMATE RE

ESTABLISHMENT AMBUD DELEGATION HERE CORRECT: JAMAICAN GOUT WANTS NOT

BE OVERTLY INVOLVED IN COLD WAR AND OUT OF CONCERN FOR MAN SAFETY LARGE

JAMAICAN COMMUNITY CUBA WILL MAKE STRENUOUS EFFORT TO STAY OUT.

HOWEVER THEY WILL HELP COVERTLY WIEREEVER POSSIBLE. ANY ATTEMPT INVOLVE

JAMAICAN GOVT AGAINST ITS WILL AT THIS THAT TIME WOULD RESULT IN NET

LOSS OF COOPERATION NOW AND IN FUTURE,. STATION REGARDS INCREASING

COOPERATION OF

IN CUBAN OBJECTIVES OF CONSIDERAELE VALUE.

2. IF HQS BELIEVES AMBUD REP SHOULD VISIT JAMAICA TO TEST POLITICAL

&KXXN CLIMATE IN GOVT, STATION WOULD CONCUR MOST RELUCTANTLY IN (PTN

GELD WILL FWD) WITH FRANK (DIAZ) SILVEIRA DURING CARIBBEAN GAMES WHOM

GOVT WANTED TO THROW OUT FOR HIS STATMENTS TO PRESS ABOUT PROPOSIO

ESTABLISHMENT AMBUD REPRESENTATION HERE. IN A ANY EVENT STATION WOULD

INSIST NO PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS PRECEDE JAMAICAN GOVT RULING. S-JUED

GOVT REJECT AMBUD FOLLOWING ADVANCE PUBLICITY THIS COULD BE MAJ

EX VICTORY FOR CUBAN CONSULATE, SHOT IN ARM TO FACING "FRIENDS OF CUBA

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

---

## Page 2

..19380

1009

DISTRI

ACTIONS

INFOR

DEFEARED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSACH

INITIALO

SECRET

CLAPBIRISATION

biG

"PASTIALO

INFO

DATEI

FILEI

TINCOMINO MUMOZA

IN 11558

CITE

KIKS $a43

NUMBER

- PAGE 2---

COMMITTEE" (COMPRISING LOCAL COIMUNISTS AND RAS TAFARIS), AND GIFT TO

BUDDING LIEW COMMUNIST FRONT "SOCIALIST PARTY OF JAMAICA".

3. SIlICE STATION COULD NOT PLAUSIBLY DENY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ASABUD

TO

_ANIO GOVT OPPOSED TO USE OF JAMAICA FOR COUNTER REVOLUTIONARY

PURPOSE AGAINST CUBA, COS BELIEVES IT ADVANTAGEOUS TO KUBARK AND OD'YOKE

FOR AMBIO STAY OUT OF LAMALGA UNTIL SENTIMENT CHANGES.

END OF MESSAGE

GROUP 1 - EXCLIDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOUNGRACING AND DECLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CLASSIPICATION

INCOMINO

---

