/104-40188-10727)

(2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

ween

" CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Fats material contaizs information atecting the National Defente of the United States withit the weaning of the Eqiouaze Lawe, Titie
16, USC Seca. Ta3 and 194 the tranaminion of fereiation of Which ia aay manner to an Weathered perwa ls proaated OY 1ewl

. 7 SECRET
S DISSEX

° REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00645-64

“SUMECT Felix SUAREZ DATE DISTR, 11 August 1964
-RETURN To CIA NO. PAGES 2
Background Use Only —ReFeReNces S-311/00115-64
Not Reproduce

. OF
r 1964

piacéa Washiagton. D.C.
DATE ACQ, August 1954 FIELD REPORT NO.
Tais 18 UNSVALUATED INFORMATION. SOUSCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligeace Service until April 1964.

Headgquarters Comments:

The following report is one of a straics containing personality
information prevaded by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals meatiored ia the personality reports without |
first checking vith this Agency.

1. Felix SUAREZ, pseudonym “Federica SANTIESTEBAN," heads
the Honduran Desk in the Departareato Liberacion Nacional
(National. Liberation Deparszent — LX) of the Direccion
General de Inteligencia ‘Geneial Directorate of
Intelligesce ~ Dal}.

2, SUAREZ was born in approximately 1940, is about 133 pounds,
five feet seven inches in height, has a thin build, is a
Negro with:a yellow cas> +o his skia and kinky hair which is
not black; his face is thin and clean shaven.l.

Headquarters Comm s

1. A representative of this Agency queried source concerning
SUAREZ" possible involvement in the revolutionary trials

4
i ti
7 SECRET z
NO FORLIGN DISSEM 1
‘State 1A [aaa Travr Ta Txsa Tock
SP _CINCLANT. Cc. TENS

ign tadiectad by “=D



SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-2-

La Cabana curing the perioc April 1960 to August 1961 and if
RLZ" matronymic could be Alvarez (this Agency's records
revealed that one Felix SUAREZ Alvarez was involved in the
revolutionary trials). Source stated that he did not know if
SUAREZ was on the tribunal and did not believe SUAREZ‘ matronymic
to be Alvarez. Source said that the SUAREZ he knovns vent to

the Cuban diplomatic training school and from there to the DGI.

2. Tae records of this Agency reveal no pertinent identificable
information concerning SUAREZ.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

