# 104-10186-10049

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10049

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Background Use Only

: Do Net Raprodum

RMATION REPORT CINFORMATION REPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Tute macerial conte

1à U8C

вика тад

a la prohibitad by

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Cula: De minican Repeiblic

Rifael Francisco TAlERIS Rusario

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

REPORT NO. CS CI 316/01174-65

DATE DISTR. 16 March 1965

NO. PAGES: 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

SOURCE,

1964

Washington, D. C.

1964

FIELO REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED TNFORMATAN SOURCE ORKDINOS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS. TENTATIVE.

A former Cuban IS clicer who served with the Cuban I seligerer Service

u"'Il Apri! 1964.

Headquarters Commert:

Toi folicwing report is one of a sertes containing. perserauty

:formatic provided by the source ard includes supplemenia? .

irformation from the records of this Agency.

1: 1s requested that the addressers take no aclion on a .! the

jcividils mentioned ir the persorally reports without firsi

chredang with this agency.

1. Sourse identified a phougraph of Rafael Francise: TAVERAS

Rosario us being 1 Domuch: ard a member of dor pro-Cis::o

Agauparion Polisa Caterce de Jerio (APCS).

As a member of the APÇJ, TAVERAS was orig-ily sert

in Cuba in secure a scholarship in the Union of Soviet Serialist

Ropublai: (USSR).

However, source judges that when this

shelorship dad rot materialize, TAVERAS was put irre guerrilla

3

2

Heidquarters Commert

1. Rafael Frer ISCo (FlI" TAVERAS Rosario, uho was berr in

about 1938, was elected secrelary of publicity and pripagardi on

the APCJ Central Executive Commiitee in December ).962.

held tha: title when he lett the Dominican Republic or 13 September

19oe for Mexico on a sparish ship, en route to the serie.

sod too

2

1

ST.ITE

I DIA

REP CINCLAN PRAY

"Nora: Field distribution indicated by "*".)

INFORMATION REPORI INFORMATION REPORT

INVEER

MICAO FI EIVELMADRII CLLIA

TO REI: BIE (CANADAI

DIR - 18622

SH CRROS 414H. 2 DR.

R CLICE 1H2L WASHBR

Fi. Projeci(AMMUC/1)

IC RAVE

INH: PO A L

RIC 1 ShO

LC1-216. 01134-88

"WH. C PID, WE 1 11, C14, RID 1, WH 461!

LIAISON

D-20010 C1 PRA

5/gD

---

